THE DONALDSONVILLE C IEF.
A Wide-Awake Home-Newspaper-Published Every Saturday-Subscription Price, $2 a Year.
VOLUME XLV. DONALDSONVILLE, LA., SATURDAY, APRIL 1, 1916. NUMBER 35
N INEWS; OF THE PHOTOPLAYS 4 I
Sj (i[ )Coining Attractions at lhe Local Movie Houses I
ni m - m , n
4i p. s f
1 : i
"AFTER DARK"
Nat Goodwin in "The Master Hand."
James Rallston has married a rich
widow who is an invalid with a daugh
ter, Jean. Being in financial dif
ficulties through rash speculations, he
schemes to get control of his wife's
fortune. A woman doctor, Miss
Lane, attends Mrs, Rallston and by
drugging her reduces her to a con
dition of physical impotence. She
plans to take Mrs. Rallston's place
and marry Rallston. Between them
they bribe 1)r. Garside, the unscru
pulous keeper of a sanitarium, to
have Mrs. Rallston committed to the
institution on the ground of weak in
Fifteen years pass. Rallston lives
in magnificent style on his wife's
money. He believes her to be dying.
Miss Lane still hopes to marry Ralls
ton when hi: wife lie,. But instead
of being on the verge of deaith. Mris.
Rallston rvco vers her health and is
perfectly sane. Rallston speculates
heavily and loses his daughter's for
tune. lIe persuades the girl to agree
to marry Bigelow, an old friend, to
whom he appeals for help in recover
ing her money. But Bigelow sus
pects Rallslon of deception, as well
as dishonesty, and is unwilling to he
lieve that Mrs. RaIlston is either dead
or insane. Bigelow forces up the
price of a .dtock and recovers Jean's
fortune for her. Then he disguises
him.self,, and, ot aioing admission to
the sanitarium, reý.cues Mrs. Rallston.
Rallston gets vind of Iligelow's inten
tion and set is o,! in hiis automobile to
foil Iligelow's pi1n. But he is killed
in an acci;ent. The i!:epei- of the
sanitarium . It . i :i idi take. to
flight, and .\li:, L it; . foesses her
crime.
'This sti] ini pli itoplty will be pre
sented at he lit i( 'i't Tht.ti, todaly.
Nat Coodwin, nAmer'ica's esdt-known
actor, is ;een iin the Ichatiit" role, that
of Bigelo\w, the I ii'-hearted, ,benevo
lent man if afftirs wxlhose "master
hand" straiaz'hten.s tl t other people's
troubles auil Iriin's them happiness.
Clara Kimball Young in "Hearts in
Exile."
Clara Kimball Youni, whose su
perb acting in "'l'rilly" andl "Camille"
won for her the. en tho:siastic admira
tion of motion picture patrons every
where, will lie seen at the Gem to
morrow in "llc:trts in Exile," a five
part Shubert featutlre founded on the
novel by John ( xellham and play by
Owen I)avis.
HIope Ivanovna, the daughter ofi a
Russian patriot, who died while serv
ing a term of i prisonmen ct for pro
mulgating doitrines of humanity andl
political freedom. has devoted her life
to carrying oni the work ;amongst the
poorer classes.
She is a girl of hiigh moral chart
acter, steadfast in he lprincilples and
unshakable in d etermination. HIer!
hand is solugiht in maii'iag'e by two
men, who, althout h their stations in
life are wide apart, it e loval friends.
One, Paul l Pavh, is a pour student,
and the othcr. r-;e!, I, Plaia, is: a
wealthy scion oi' liusian aiistoi.rciV.
Hope accepts tihe i 1;t iin oier that
her work will itt Ihc i..n, pered It.
lack of money.
The chief of Ioli,'n. cruel. Ire lentless
and lascivius, i me Hope. and, ai
traeted by her I ntl :,,I vir't ., de
termines tIo - her. an;u to his
end has hai htr huli ind s.,,et ' ed
to fifteen ye:' hn eI, ,itland i
friend to five \. t 1,, i
on false char::e,>,
Hope, how e il, : is l roof :tit !ii . all
his advany t, d h ih . ;u love f o top
ney to Siberia t ,it I ter ad in
exile. Afte ttt ,,tths of tp ivel.
during which ,,i: . :;... ,ie pi
vations, she arliýti, rh . It find hert
husbant, hut Ien h I ', i', who iill a
spirit of wdeft ifl elf-isacriice. irt
uated by hir; high siulled ii' for IHiope
and deep friendship for e.,'e. has ex
changed sentenc's.
The endl of the si l.v is replete with
thrills and heart thli s. In the role l
of Hope Ivanovna, Clara Kimball
. YOUng has a part in which her strong
powers of characterization are (tem
onstrated and to which she gives a
remarkable and powerful interpreta
tion.
"After Dark."
The feature attraction at the Gem
Monday will be the five-part William
A. Brady photoplay, "After Dark,"
adapted from the famous old melo
drama of that name which was play
ed with remarkable success all over
the world some years ago.
The drama opens during the Span
ish-Anierican war. Tom Dalton
learns that his wife is faithless and
serter, is the destroyer of his happi
ness. lie loses heart and goes to the
,ad. Years pass.
Pellany ccomes the associate of
,cminm:n:d ::nd with Morris, a crook,
telorplis a young fellow, George Med
ih urt, into forging the name of his
father. who die . Young Medhurst
mariaiet I Fanny, "Old Tom" Dalton's
daughter. But George has inherited
his money on condition that he mar
i i. Rocs.:.n.ther girl. Here Bellamy
and Morriis endeavor to blackmail
Me.lhursl to the limit, but Rose in
tervenes and saves George from mo
lestalion by handing him back his
own money. Old Tom lives happily
with George and his daughter Fanny
and the villains are sent to the right
about.
"Black Fear" at the Grand.
"Black Fear,'' a sensational five
part photodrama produced by Rolfe
P'hotoplays, Inc., will be the Sunday
attraction at the Grand Theatre. An
all-star cast is seen in this production,
headed by the accomplished dramatic
actress, Grace Elliston, ahd includ
ing Grace Valentine and Edward
Brennan.
Briefly, the story of "Black Fear"
is as follows:
In an allegory Satan is seen on his
throne, disgusted with the age-long
monotony of ensnaring mankind with
the old devices and passions. Miss
Cocaine presents herself, and offers
to go forth to Earth, as his ambassa
dor, to lure souls to perdition.
Ilorcee Ely. head of a big messen
ger service company, is starting on
an automobile ride with the two Ells
m.it.e sisters. .illian and Mary, when
their attention is attracted to a
-roiup on the corner. There the sis
te: foind their younger brother, Billy,
who ihs b. n enegaged in a fight with
two niessenger boys, trying to pre
vent them taking cocaine. Ely
chanimpons the cause of the two boys,
but the police lead them off to the
station. One of the boys proves to
be the son of Mrs. Martindale, house
keeper for the Ellsmeres. Judge Le
Roy, who presides at the juvenile
court, has long been friendly with
Lillian Ellsmere. and when her little
brother and Mrs. Martindale appear
scENe FROM BLG EAR
J hF ý C1~
::i:~iian c
y sa
in court next (lay, he agrees to be
lenient and arranges to have the boys
take a drug cure.
Soon after this incident, the father
of the E1llmere girls loses his fortune
in Wall Street, and ends his life. The
girls take a small flat, and Billy gets
a place with Ely as a messenger boy.
Through the direction of Ely, Billy
is introduced to cocaine, and soon
becomes a confirmed victim. Mrs.
Martindale has learned from her son
that Ely, who has been posing as a
single man, is married. Lillian for
bids Mary to see him, and Ely uses
Billy as a go-between in arranging
meetings with Mary.
Mary is finally lured to Ely's apart
ments. and when she resents his ad
vances, he drugs her. Billy's health
has been undermined through using
the drug. and he is removed to a hos
pital in a dying condition, Lillian
learns of this and hurries to the hos
pital. but arrives there as Billy is
breathing his last. Crazed with grief,
Lillian seeks out Ely's apartments to
avenge Billy's death. She forces her
way into the apartment just as Ely
and Mary, who is recover:ng from
the effects of the drug, are in a ter
rific struggle. Mary hides before her
sister can see her there. In a fight
with Ely, Lillian attempts to shoot
him. but he wrenches the revolver
fromg hand. Ely trips over a rug
and in ing the pistol is discharged
and Ely is killed. Mary witnesses
the whole affair, but fearing Lillian's
wrath, and to save her own reputation,
she flees.
Miss Cocaine reports her success
to Satan and is commended.
Lillian is arrested and charged with
murder. She convinces Judge LeRoy
of her innocence, and he resigns as
judge to defend her. But it is not
so easy to convince the jury. Mary
is about to flee the city, when the
figure of an officer appears in front
of her as implacable Justice. She
turns back and hurries to the court
room, arriving there as the jury has
decided against Lillian. Mary gives
her testimony, and recounts how Lil
lian saved her from outrage at the
hands of the monster, Ely. The jury
returns a verdict of "not guilty" with
out leaving the jury-box, and Judge
LeRoy is rewarded by Lillian's ac
ceptance of his suit for her hand.
"The Majesty of the Law."
George Fawcett, the eminent stage
star, will be seen at the grand, Mon
'dJAy n''T Majesty of the Law," an
intensely interesting film drama
wherein love, honor and duty play
prominent parts,
Tuesday's offering will be William
i'arnum in "The Wonderful Adven
ture."
"The Pretty Sister of Jose."
In the title role of "The Pretty
Sister of Jose," Frances Hodgson
Burne tt's charming romance of old
Spain, which comes to the Grand Wed
nesday, Marguerite Clark attains one
of her greatest screen triumphs. The
role is one in which every resource
and power of the magnetic little star
is brought into effective play, and she
takes the fullest advantage of her
many emotional opportunities. As
the tiny, exquisite Spanish girl of a
thousand moods and whims, who has
vowed never to lose her heart, but
who, when finallly conquered by the
handsome Sebastiano, loves truly and
devotedly, Miss Clark is utterly in
comparable, and denotes exceedingly
well the struggle in the girl's heart to
maintain a haughty demeanor toward
the nl she has learned to adore,
while longing to yield to the impulses
of her love. With her fascinating
dark beauty and charming grace of
form and motion, Miss Clark is ex
ceptionally adapted to the role of the
dainty little dark-eyed belle of Ma
drid. The scenic environment of Cal
ifornia, where the subject was pro
duced. lends itself faithfully to the
atmosphere of the story, and its rap
idly changing development, with its
wealth of color and romance, has re
sulted in a thoroughly unusual and
picturesque photoplay.
Laura Hope Crews in "Blackbirds."
"Blackbirds," in the picturization
of which Miss Laura Hope Crews will
make her first appearance before a
local audience next Friday, at the
Grand, is adapted from the drama of
the same name in which Miss Crews
appeared a whole season at the Ly
ceum Theatre, New York, and on tour
of the United States.
Leonie Sobatsky in "Blackbirds"
is a young American woman of ad
venturous disposition and inclination
(Continued on page four.)
WHAT ONE PIG WILL DO.
Investment of $20 Yields Handsome
Returns to Ascension Boy.
By H. J. SEIFERTH in Times-Picayune.
One thoroughbred pig has made a
well posted, successful farmer -of
Bentley B. Mackay, 20 years old, of
Hope Villa, La. That one pig has not
only educated and made money for
him, but has given him a chance to
travel and get into touch with the
world of better farming. His father,
with 120 acres to work with, did not
achieve as much as the boy with only
one pig as his scope. Now he has con
verted his parent to the new methods,
practical diversification will be fol
lowed, crops will be raised for good
hogs to harvest at the least expense
and the most profit, and there is go
ing to be a real farm under the joint
Mackay management. Also, the boy
will stay on the farm instead of hunt
ing a job as soda dispenser in some
burg where the bright lights burn late.
Bentley gave the facts of his ex
perience after he read a story in the
Times-Picayune about how Prof. W.
C. Abbott had organized the boys of
his school at Dubach into a dairy
club. Prof. Abbott was Mackay's
teacher at the Oak Grove school in
1911, when Director Balis organized
the pig club there, and induced the
lad to become a member. The boy
purchased a Duroc gilt for $20, and
earned the lesson of good blood from
the start. The pig was only eight
weeks old then, and was of the famous
Colonel strain, sired by Prince Pilot,
the Chicago fat stock show winner in
1909, which was bought by a Baton
Rouge breeder and was already win
ning ribbons which caught the young
ster's eyes. With good material as
foundation, Mackay worked out a
balanced ration with which to do his
feeding. The animial thrived, making
steady gains, and weighed 400 pounds
at a year old. The pig took the first
prize of $3 at the parish fair, and
earned its owner a trip and a ticket
to the state fair at Shreveport. The
three hundred miles journey proved
hard on the sow and she was out of
condition and droopy all the time she
was at the big show. That spoiled
chances for first place in the club
competition, but the entry took see
ond money and also secured for the
owner a free ticket to the Internation
al Corn Exposition at Columbia, S. C.
Outside of the privilege being worth
about $40, the inspirational and edu
cational value was much greater.
mne following Jv.arch his sow pre
sented him with eleven pigs, nine of
which survived to net him $8 each.
In September he gathered in another
litter, this time of eight, and for these
he not only demanded but obtained
$10 apiece. The demonstration
agents helped him .in boosting and
placing'hisss-t tfW,- fr tieirmain aim
is to make the farmer succeed. In
August, 1915, the sow farrowed
seven. Mackay had orders for two
females, but the entire litter turned
out males. He was not able to sell
these for breeding purposes, so six
of them are still with him and will go
to the butcher. His disappointment
made him a little careless with the
unwelcome boars, and as a conse
quence they only weigh about 140
pounds apiece. But on March 8 the
sow more than made up for her sex
production error. She even over
did it in her anxiety to console. She
broke all previous records by deliver
ing fifteen pigs. The swine hus
bandman decided that the aggrega
tion was too large to expect to raise
successfully. So he did not take any
measures to interfere with the process
of natural selection. She smothered
four weaklings, and Mackay then
took charge, but before his plans
were carried out the sow had mashed
two more the second night.
A neighbor had a sow which had
lost its pigs, and the youth sold one
of his lTabies to the bereaved farmer.
Two more deals in futures were made,
for pigs to be turned over at wean
ing time, and he does not expect any
difficulty in disposing of the entire
lot. Several of the original sow's
daughters he saved have a'lso gone
into the producing business, one of
them farrowing ten-a few days ago.
Eight survive, and will bring $10
each. The other gilt is five months
old, with her achievements still ahead.
The little hog farm is already near a
man's size job, but Mackay has almost
reached manhood and is equipped, to
tackle it. And then there is the "old
man," who has the good sense to take
The First Taste
Tells the Difference
The New Post Toas
ties are made to over
come the objections
common to ordinary
corn flakes.
Just one trial will
show that these NewPost
Toasties retain their de
licious crispness-don't
mush down when milk
or cream is added; nor
are they "chaffy" in the package.
They're distinguished by the tiny bubbles on each
flake, raised through the quick, intense heat of the
new process of manufacture.
And the flavour-the full, true flavour of choicest
white Indian corn-is brought out in
New Post Toasties
Sold by Grocers everywhere.
VOTES FOR WOMEN.
Southern States Woman Suffrage
Conference.
417 Camp Street, New Orleans.
Brewers in Contempt.
Many tales are chronicled of the
pernicious activity of liquor interests,
in elections. The methods as dis
closed in the trial of the United
States Brewers' Association are on
the usual par of iniquity. To cover
the trail of evil, check-books were
burned and accounts destroyed.
When the elections of the country
are debauched it is time to put out of
business the forces that menace our
governmental institutions. The es
pecial terror of the liquor interests is
women with votes, and it was to pre
vent the adoption of a woman suf
frage amendment in Pennsylvania
that the vice leagues resorted to
bribery and other specious means. It
doesn't take much brain or time to
understand why the liquor dealers are
afraid of the ballot for women.
No Pork Needed.
Hoquiam, Washington, has set a
new record for congressmen. An en
terprising representative in congress
from that quarter of the country re
cently introduced a bill to appropriate
$125,000 for a federal building in
the town referred to. Did Hoquiam
illuminate and jubilate? No. It
signed a letter to its congressman pro
testing against so large an allowance,
modestly declaring that $50,000
would do. Auy more than C~' said
the communication, would be' "pork."
The next time the reader sees the
name of Hoquiam in the newspapers
he should take off his hat to it, and
remember that women as well as men
are voters in Washington. This may
be one reason why there is some con
_cience in public affairs.
Motherhood in Mississippi.
An interesting bill in the Missis
sippi legislature is one proposing to
give mothers equal rights with fath
ers in their own children. Mother
hood in Mississippi does not rank as
high as fatherhood. It is sort of a
secondary position without much
right but with manifold duties.
Two Organizations.
Miami, Florida, has two Equal
Suffrage Leagues; one is composed of
the prominent business men of the
city, and the other of influential,
earnest women. Both these organi
zations expect to bring about votes
for women and make Florida the lead
ing southern state.
Insromnnia.
Indigestion nearly always disturbs
the sleep more or less, and is often
the cause of insomnia. Eat a light
supper with little if any meat, and no
milk; also take one of Chamberlain's
Tablets immediately after supper,
and see if you do not rest much bet
ter. Obtainable everywhere.--(Adv.)
advantage of the knowledge which the
son has acquired.
In the meantime Mackay has taken
an inventory of his swine business in
order to find out what he has gained
and where he stands. These are the
figures, and they are all conservative:
Parish prize and ticket............$ 3.00
Second prize at state fair...... 5.00
Columbia, S. C.,. trip..........-------.... 40.00
Nine pigs sold.............. ...-- . 72.00
Six sold at six weeks........ 60.001
Year-old farrow.......---.........--- --. 22.701
Farrow butchered, 375 lbs.. ... 24.371
Six boars on hand ............... 59.10
Sold at three days old .......... 4.00
Eight in hind......... .......80.00
Probable value of sow ......_-..... 50.00
Sow and eight pigs ....................110.00
Gilt on hand ......... ....----- .. 1400
So Mackay's original invesftent of
$20 in a single pig has already
brought him or is about to yield
$544.17. With the pigs as only a
side line, with the crops to feed them
raised on the place, with other crops
grown for food and feed at home and
a surplus to market, it does not re
quire any expert mathematician to
figure that this Louisiana family is
on the right road. Young Mackay
does not place himself high up in the
pig club ranks. Other boys have and
can do better. But if all the farm
boys in the state do as well there will
soon be something doing in Louisiana.
HOW StAR PRICES ARE FIXED.
Ultimate Figu4r Paid by Householder Affected by Many
Different- ,fluences That Become Operative Before
Consumer' , Reached-Effect of Tariff Has Been to
Decrease t to American Householder.
'F (From F'acts About Sugar.)
When the price o sugar takes an
upward trend, offlrha public opinion
blames the rapacity0 f dealers or it
blames the tariff. Ifsugar prices de
cline, consumers are -pleased, but no
one stops to think ~ the cause, and
even the sugar tif is forgotten,
though it may have een largely in
strumental in causi* the gratifying
price reduction.
The reason for .se attitudes is
easily explainable. is because the
consumer does not k4 w how the price
of sugar is fixed, also because
continued agitation, ended for pub
lic consumption, ha een carried on
by selfish interests the sugar in
dustry, to brand t tariff on im
ported sugar as a tor that con
stantly increases th rce of all su
gar under all cond s.
In order to arrive:- a clear tinder
standing of what true effect of
the tariff is on suga ices an equally
clear understandiRa J essential of
what factors opera fixing the ulti
mate figure which e householder
pays for sugar.
Some products,. o Id to the con
sumer on a basis ar at by adding
to the cost of produ t a fixed profit.
i'his is true in gen~t of articles that
are nationally adv ed and sold at
a fixed price. In- case of sugar
this method of pri king does not
apply. Sugar is th ost sensitive of
all food products the influences
produced by the ri economic law
of supply and de d, and under
present conditions old wholly on
that basis, with a " orable or un
favorable turn on side reflected
in the price the co r pays.
The price of su 'from day to
day bears no rela. - either to cost
or to reasonable fit. When the
representative of a uiban producer
sells raw sugar to a York refiner,
the price is negotia on a cost and
freight basis witho e import duty.
At present this, pri is 4% cents a
pound. The cost the Cuban of
producing this raw ar was general
ly estimated befor the war at 2
cents a pound or le Under present
conditions it undo .dly is higher,
possibly 2 2 cents. is evident that
no stable relation ` the cost of the
raw product to t p. tice the con
sumer pays for re sugar exists
here, -
lation of supply a edemand created
by the war, the Cuban -producer is in
a position to force the refiner to pay
all the latter can afford, notwithstand
ing the high profit which this yields
the planter, and in the end the con
sumer must pay accordingly.
All raw sugar is sold on this basis.
When the world's supply is curtailed,
raw sugar prices go up, and the plant
ers reap as large profits as the buyers
of sugar will stand. When supplies
exceed demand, raw sugar values
drop, the planters' profits shrink or
perhaps entirely disappear, and con
sumers reap some of the benefits, but
not all, as between them and the pro
ducer stands the refiner, who plays an
important part in the making of sugar
prices.
Every refiner knows to the fraction
of a decimal how much his refined su
gal on hand has cost him, but no re
finer knows how much he will sell
that sugar for next week. The cost
of raw sugar now represented by re
fined may have been so low that to
day's market price for refined will
yiekld five times a reasonable profit,
or it may have been so high that the
refiner is selling at a loss. In either
case he must sell sugar at a price that
will "keep his sugar moving."
If news should come of a devastat
ing hurricane passing over the entire
island of Cuba, the refiner would at
once mark up the price of refined fifty
points or more. If he did not, the
big jobbers would clean out his ware
houses within twenty-four hours and
would themselves clean up a large
profit on the inevitable rise. Should
news come of the termination of the
European war, the refiner would mark
down the price of sugar even though
the mark set reduced his profits to a
vanishing point. Otherwise the sugar
wnould emain insold.
Under existing conditions the re- ti
finer sells his sugar for what it will v
bring. This does not mean forced lc
sales or that prices or profits cannot c,
be reasonably estimated. What it l(
does mean was explained by C. A. n
Spreckels, of the Federal Sugar Re- y
fining Company, in testifying before o
a cofigressional committee, in the
statement that he charges for his su- h
gar "all the traffic will bear." t
In fuller explanation, he said: s
"The Federal Sugar Refining Com- e
pany produces all the sugar it pos- 1
sibly can and markets its product t
every day at a price it will bring, and,
if it does not bring the price, the r
price is immediately lowered, which
frequently happens. We get the
price, but we move our product every
dlay. Our mill has to run day and
night, and we never stop. That is
the competition we have.'
In this refiner's statement there is I
no mention of cost or tariff, or of
any limit based o~ a fair return on
invested capital. Sugar is sold in
every market "fot the price it will
br ing." This pricer in the absence of
an effective monopoly, is based whol
ly on supply and demand. There has
been no effective monopoly in the
United States---onee held by the re
finers-since the domestic production
of sugar, under the stimulus of a
protective tariff, became an import
ant factor in the sugar market.
The law of supply and demand it
self has its peculiarities when applied
to sugar. Sugar is not an article
which may be manufactured in any
desirable amounts from an indefinite
quantity of raw material. On the
e contrary, when -g- world's crops
have been planted, the world's pro
duction is fixed for that year, subject
only to the fluctuations of crop yields
due to weather conditions. "This is
supply. Moreover, it is the invariable
rule, so far as the United States is
concerned, that practically the entire
crop is sold during the year by the
primary producers and only an in
significant fraction held over by any
middleman, so the entire crop goes
into consumption annually, with no
surplus to affect the market.
At the other end of the line are the
daily purchases of the housewife from
the grocer, multiplied by twenty mi!
lion. The chief factor affecting these
purchases is the general prosper'ity of
the country. This is the demand.
Between the producer and the re
tailer are the refiner and jobber, each
carefully watching the probable
course of the market as it is affected
by the fluctuations of supply and dle
mand, but as powerless to control the
final result, under present day com
petitive conditions, as he would be to
control the tides.
The middleman, though tinable to
decree an arbitrary increase or de
crease in price contrary to the law of
supply awlu demand, still remains a
factor iit"price making. The ten
dency to absorb part of a profit be
fore passing it along is universal.
Retail prices, therefore, do not re
spond materially to slight changes in
the wholesale price. As a matter of
fact they respond more quickly to ad
vances than they do to declines.
For example, the average price of
raw sugar in January, 1905, was
5.125 cents a pound. The price stead
ily declined until by November it was
3.440 cents, a decrease-of 1.685 cents.
This gives an opportunity to see how
much the consuiner benefits under fa
vorable conditions. The records show
that the retail price during this period
declined from 6.194 cents to 5.499
cents. Of the decline of 1.685 cents
in the price of raw sugar the con
sumer received .745 cent, or less than
half. At the same time the refiner
increased his margin between the cost
of raw sugar an.d the wholesale price
of refined from 15.12 per cent to 26.
45 per cent; the jobber increased his
sales margin from 1.5C3 per cent to
4.56 per cent, and the retailer in
creased his from 3.41 per cent to 19,
Statistics Bulletin No. 121, "Sugar
Prices from Refiner to Consumer,"
page 30.)
This is not an exceptional instance.
The rule is invariable that a lower
price of raw sugar means a. larger
profit to each middleman involved,
and that a higher piice of raw sugar
means a lower profit.
One of the most important remain
ing factors affecting the price fixing
problem is the effect on the sugar
market of the domestic supply. ft is
in connection with this factor that the
true effect of the sugar tariff on prices
can be measured and judged. It is
an undeniable, historical fact that,
under a protective tariff, the domes
tic production of sugar in less than
two decades has been so stimulated
that home-grown sugar now supplies
half the consumption needs of the
nation. In 1870 the average whole
sale price of refined sugar was 13.51
cents a pound and the production of
domestic sugar was almost negligible.
In 191.5, the average wholesale price,
even with the advance caused by the
war, was 5.65 cents, and the domestic
products ) over 2.000,000 tons. No
such decrease in price and increase in
production could have taken place
without tariff protection for domestic
producers.
As an increase in supply tends to
lower sugar prices from what they
otherwise would be, it is apparent that
the real effect of the sugar tariff on
prices has been to decrease the cost
of sugar to the American consumer.
Printed Stationery Pays.
You are judged by the stationery
you use. Printed stationery is one
of the requisites for a successful mail
order business in live stock, poul
try, plants, etc. Picture to yourself
a man who has answered your adver
tisement and your competitor's ad
vertisement, holding in one hand your
letter written on a sheet from a five
cent tablet, and in the other hand the
letter of the other -man written on
neatly printed stationery-will you or
your competitor have the best chance
of getting his order?
It pays to name your farm, and
have the name and an illustration of
the kind of cattle and poultry you
specialize in printed on your station
ery. You can buy printed letter
heads and envelopes in small quan
tities, but it pays to buy two or three
years' supply at once. Your local
newspaper will supply you very rea
sonably.-The Progressive Farmer.
Safe Medicine for Children.
"Is it safe?" is the first question
to be considered when buying cough
medicine for children. Chamber
lain's Cough Remedy has long been a
favorite with mothers of young chil
dren as it contains no opium or other
narcotic, and may be given to a child
as confidently as to an adult. It is
pleasant to take, too, which is of
great importance when a medicine
must be given to young children.
This remedy is most effectual in re
lieving coughs, colds and croup. Ob
t tainable everywhere.-(Adv.)
"A few people got together and
organized." That is the way the his
- tory of nearly every important move
i ment begins. No matter how much
e public spirit you may have in the in
r dividuals of your community, you are
e not likely to get far until you get
e some kind of a community organiza
s tion.-The Progressive Farmer.
