TEE MECOra
ESTABLISHED SEP'T 17, U70.
pioche, ncvada; aturday, april i. hi.
VOLUME XL VI: NUMBER 29.
4 ih
Dirtlman 11 Fly
Ttirougli Caliente Tovn
CALIENTE, Nevada-March- UThe
transcontinental flight of B. B. Lewis,
viator, baa been postponed one week,
heme, he will not pass through Cal
lente until Sunday forenoon April 8 th.
Con. Mrta Women Voters To
fl terly Completed To Have Chance Today
iiry fact has Incited the business men The Consolidated - evada-Utah mm is quence, higher prices may be expected.
Salt Lake City, Omaha, Kansas-City nearlng completion and probably the lg the consensus of opinion among
Tom ' McCormac 1 disappointed be--aus
the route ofB. B. Lewis, the
trartscontlneBtal. aviator, who 1st ilvtor
ta the interest of prepardnesa will not
touch the famous Oroom mine, ' wtta
ajl of Its historic associations.
The drastic spirit of Mr. McGormae,
which la shown clearly la all of his
actions If one stops to weigh matters
la Indicated by hie remembanoe of
the old; buU trains used by the eme
grants, who took months to -cross the
deserts plains and mountains, and the
contrast with the modern means of
communication, the flying machine.
' Like every honest American, McCor
mac. orlavea over the 'act that the
great inventions and children of Ameri
cas brains. theV telepraph, , telephone,
submarine, rtfpldf Ira fun, Iron clad, tor
pedo and flying machine, have been grab
bed by. foreign governments and Improv
ed unoiu by lack of encouragement to
the Inventor from his own country.
' The operator at the Groom mine was
la La Vegaa last Sunday and met S. I.
4e Krafft,, a member oft he Aera
dub of America, who la arranging for
the flight of Lewis across the continent
The t rata mt a fortunate'' thing
for the aviator and his representative as
Mr. McCormac Immediately became in
terested In tht flight, and set about to
do all in his power, to aid the project.
Hfc baa arranged for an automobile
'patrol form Jean to Callente of eight
machines with two doctors 1 In reach, in
case of accident, which it is hoped
wlU not be called upon, prefssionaUy.
McCormac kept in touch with Lewis' rep
representative by, wire, and when the
former, wired that h was calfed back
,,$. J?Jego, front '-Which - point, the'
-easia "fHa tilghvw wlH start,
" "coTtna dropped, hi business, met No.
on ' the alt Lake Route at Callente
- and rode to Barstow to talk over
matter and to offer any assistance in
tie power. An act of courtesy which
la deeply appreciated.
j B, B. Lewis la a gentleman sports
'man of New York, one of the four
looting Americana of means, who went
abroad with Mrs. Harry Payne Wllhnev'
ambulance corps as drivers, all of whom
abandoned tSa wheel of the motor for
that f war plane.
They returned to this country in
December for the holidays; Lewis re-
malting here. - because he felt that he
could1 be of more aervlce to hi
country by aiding . In the work of
aattena prepardness, than by reutrn
lag to fight the central powrs. Thaw,
Cewdln and Prince returned to "some
where in Franca."
The air currents of continental Europe
are charted as are the currents , of
. jfcjW even aeaa. hut three are not an
, air current' In this country ao charted.
In a! taUk with former secretary of War
Garrison and Hugh. L. Scott, chief
"df staff of, tha army, two days before!
lite secretary resigned, Mr. Lewis was,
told1 that tha department would be most
ajratieful to accept hia services to
chart an air lane 'from the Pacific to
'. the Atlantic, that any route approved by
th Aro Club of America, had tht
A pproval of the war department, and
that ha would be appointed the first
itraBaoonttneatal aerial war scouts.
He Is to" follow the trunk lines of
raltwaya across t$e Vnuted States,; with
tha Idea of demonstrating the feasibility
of an aerial scout patrol to keep them
open; a. time of war- as la done In
Europe for ' the rapid mobilization and
transportation of men and supplies
Hia route from San ftego to New York
Is as followa
. Santa Ferom San Diego to Pagget
. 'tha Sail Lake route thence to Salt
' Lake City: Union Pacific from the later
,', point to Omaha; from- Omaha to Kansas
tty to St. Louis over the Missouri
'.' IPaeWlc; then follow the Baltimore
... Ohio Southwestern to Washington to
tf New Tork. The Lewis schedule calls for
hia to make the trip ' in ten days With
' ten steps for food end supplies and the
' aatna number at night. He will leave
,v San Diego on the morning of Saturday
V' lVptli 1 and la due In New Tork on
tha Afternoon of' April 10, His schedule
-call for tan flying hours a day, at
aalnlmutn speeds of M miles an ' hour.
An allowance of three and 4 one-halt
fdayaj Is made for breakdowns- and re
" fairs. If Lewis gets across in hours
- wi oraaa toe recura maue py.
; Are ocean td ocean flyer; .the late
' 5 P. Rodger, who flew from Sheeps
iV" head! Bar JUce Track, N. T. :- to 'Long
1 iBaejca. Cal.. m three days. 19, hours
)aod M a routes, consuming 4 days on
the trip, la leu.
WILL CARRT If AIL
t .... . ..
and St. Louis, to plan .aerial mall route Initial try-out will he made aomeuma
to operate themselves this summer, if next week. The transmission machra-
the government will not make the neces- ery Is ell in place; but some delay
sary appropriations. Lewis will carry has been experienced int he non-aW-
0 pounds of first clas fetter mall, no "I of the beltjne to be used In ti
post or newspapers. This will be open-1 iuiy i urer ir i p'"-
ed. at luoppln plnces and If tlere in ample time, but the supply housees
be mall for that district It will be taken at both Salt Lake and Denver reported
out. and.Jhe same amount In weight that they were entirely out. so hip.-
replaced.'w. go farther . eaet. Such matt ment was made direct from the faegpry.
hould be clearly marked "U. S. Aerial New Jersey. - ,f.
Post." -',. I SuP't Van Waxenen epxects to intr9-
Lewts wUl be sent away from North iduce the first ore Into the mill aboU
Island. San Diego, the flying field, of the 'he 10th and anticipates that on-
. . . . . . . . . . 1 Mhtrttm u-1 I It A rlinnlna- nff h
r Iran ii . a prim nouutml dv lkui. i n ... -
n - T I
and
centrales will be
A.s Cowan. U. S. A.x-and will make his tawea oy tne tain.
first stop between Redlands
POPULAR YOUNQ FARMER
VICTIM OF PNEUMO
Ma
San
Bernardino about noon, and will make
his only scheduled .Nevada stop at Las
Vegas for night, where a committee will
entertain him. His next stop will be! A.tr an illness of only four days,
Mllford, Utah, Sunday noon, and In the j Samuel Lytle, one of he popular fartn
afternoon at o'clock he will land on Rose Valley fell vicljrn to pneu
the parade ground of Ft. Douglas. Salt monla at an early hour last Wednesday
Lake City. He wfjl be wie by a com- morning.
mUtee from the Commercial Club and The deceased was born In Lincoln
prominent citizens"; will be entertained county and was about 45 years of age.
bv them and In the evenin will deliver! H survived by a widow and three
an address at a special meeting of the
Commercial Club telling of what he
saw and experienced "uomewhere in
France."
The United States Government at
present has 21 flying machines, 3 of
which are In shape for active service,
the others are death traps. Aside from
a jit. Foulois and a couple of mora
flyersi the rest; With the U. S. forces In
Mexico are volunteers from the Aero
Club of America.
AN IMMENSE FUND
This country needs 2000 scout
machines, and because of the lack, the
ero Cfub of America, started tho
National Aeroplane fund In Jaunary,
vi(ich three weeks 'ago amounted , to
$385,000, now It Is probably is wett over
Wjlee ' that amonut, Th ivV-f.of" ihie
fund Is to equip each militia regiment
and battalllon of naval reserves of the
various si'-tes, with at least I machine
and, to train one pilot, who can and
wOl train others. Such machines cos
ahouf $5,600 and to train a pilot
M00.
When Rodgers flew across the country
In 1911 many of the towns and clti&s
'fered purses for him to stop, Lewis
who a maklns the trip at an expense
lrto himself of about $40,000 and betting
Us life, has agreed to give 60 per. cent
f any purses hung up to the National
Aeroplane fund, with the proviso that
he state In whlch the city Is located
shall receive such money to aid In equip-
tng lt citizens soldiers with a flying
nachine, as a nucleus.
Jits flight from Dagget to Salt Lako
City will be over a country where a fly
ing machine lis yet to be seen, and it
Is thought that his flight will create
widespread Interest. It Is expected thai
pertsbns will "come long distances to
Uee hia Wright machine, which has a
motor of 170 horse Dower, with a sneed
o 80 miles an hour. His flying speed
will be 60 miles an hour, plus or minus
the speed of the wind.
Lewis Is expected to pass through
Callente early tomorrow forenoon. Whl
his place ts not a scheduled stop the
flyer may come to earth for a few min
utes to pick up what letters Postmaster
Less Denton, Will Pace and a few
others ' may want to dispatch by "U. S.
Aerial Post."
.-hlldren; Ms" mother, Mrs. Chas. Lytle
of Eagle Valley; three brothers. Less
Frll and Ed. Lyt'e, and , fwo sisters
Mrs. P. II. Devlin and Mrs. Win.
Warren. ' i
The funeral was held from the family
home last Thursday afternoon and inter
menu took place in the Eagle Valley
eemetry. Judge J. M. Breeze delivered
the eulgistic address and spoke
f comfort to the beareaved ones.
The Reeord ; Joins with the many'
friends of the deceased ; ln expressions
of sympathy.
ueuveei
e wuils
MINES MID 111
IIS
Peer To Ship Ore
L. F. Peer, a vetran mining operator
of the Falrview district, was in towft
for the first time in about five months
a few days ago. He says mining con
ditions in his part of the country are
looking favorable. He Is about to make
a shipment of ore which, he figures
will bring him In about $35 a ton.
JOE HAMMOND COME
' ' OUT FOR RECORDER
Joe Hammond, one of the well known
and enterprising young farmers of Eagle
Valley, has announced his candidacy1 change.
Spelter's average price for the past
week was 16.:6.
Shipments of ore on a , small scale
'.iae been resumed at the old Cave
mine tn the. Antelope range east of
Mllford, Utah.
Production of the mines of Tlntlo
the past week totaled . 141 carloads,
compared with, 135 cars the week be
fore. The tonnage Is estimated at 7,
050 tons, valued at $176,000.
From Boston comes the word that
the United States Smelting at present
has the largest supply of unsold lead
In the country and as a result of its
market attitude stands to make a
handsome profit.
Shipments of ore from the Park City
mines last week totaled 1,184 tons of
first-class crude and concentrates frcm
the mills. The consignments are esti
mated at $47,000 and compare with 1,
150 tons the previous week.
Business on the Salt Lake mining
exchange the past week amounted to
about $30,000 less than in the pervious
week. However, the trading was con
sidered exceptionally good on account
of its broadness and strength.
One of the busy mining districts in
Beaver county these days is centered
around the Cedar-Talisman, Hoosier
Boy, Monzonite, Cedar Extension, Pa
lo ma. Silver Gulch and Palonia Exten
sion, all of which are now active.
There has been renewed activity in
the "war metals," copper, lead and
spelter, during the past week, with
large tonnages contracted for, says
the Boston News Bureau. Prices hav
strengthened, with lead exhibiting the
greatest rise.
It is reported from American Fork
that the leasers on the , Mineral Flat
will resume work in tho near future,
or as soon as the work can be done to
advantage. The snow is still pretty
deep on this slope off Bald mountain,
which runs up 11,500 feet high.
Showing cash on hand amounting to
$118,000 and an indebtedness of $10,
000, the stock of the Big Four Explora
tion company, which Is a mining and
milling company operating - in Utah,
Idaho and Texas, has been listed on
the Salt Lake Stock & Mining ex-
those conversant with the situation of
the metal market throughout the east.
During 1913 United States Smelting
handled the largest tonnage of lead
ore In its history, producing between
85,000,000 and 90,000,000 pounds, as
compared with 64,000,000 in 1914. It is
estimated tht th's year, by reason
of Improvements at the Midvale plant,
approximately 100.000,000 pounds will
he handled.
In explanation of where some of tha
enormous volume of copper goes In
domestic consumption, a Boston expert
is quoted as estimating that the Amer
ican Telephone & Telegraph company
now has 18.500.00o miles of wire, 93
per cent copper, in use, the cost of
which at current levels Is half a bil
lion dollars.
That Idaho contains a greater quan
tity of tungsten ores than any other
state in the Union, and that with
proper development it will be able to
supply the steel mills of this country
with all of the tungsten necessary for
the hardening of tool steel and the
noses of projectiles, is the opinion of
Frank Johnesse, mining engineer of
Boise.
With the unprecedented demand
that has been created for metal of the
tungsten class since the beginning of
the European war, the production of
that metal has become a great indus
try in Nevada, especially in Elko,
Humboldt, Mineral, Nye and Clark
counties, and It ts not without the
range of possibilities that in value the
present year it will exceed a million
dollars.
Under the general management of
Imer Pett, a native son of Utah, in
the past eight years the Bingham
Mines company has reduced a, -bonded
indebtedness of $1,600,000 to ; "about
$500,000; also wiped out the Eagle &
Blue Bell company's debt of near
1400.000 and replaced, it -with : a Mlivir
dend creMlt of $450,000. . This Is -considered
"one of the best records ever
made in 'the west . by a young mining
operator. , ,-
Bar silver and Mexican silver dol
lars on March 23 attained their high
est quotations since the beginning oi
the European war. Silver bullion sold
at 59c an ounce and, Mexican dol
lars at 46 VsC, these prices representing
advances of 2 cents and 2, respec
tively, over March 18.
Settlement has ju'it been made for
a carload or ore snipped last week
from the Opohongo. of Tlntlc. It
brought $1,125 for a car of about forty
tons. The ore averaged near $27.30
a ton, mainly in copper, silver and
g'd
news and warning army officers along
the border against giving out reports
unless fully verified.
CHANNEL BOAT TORPEDOED.
Lives of Thirty Americans Endan
gered Whan Boat is Attacked.
London. The cross-channel steamer
Sussex, which was damaged by an
explosion, probably a torpedo attack,
in the English channel wblle on a
trip from Folkestone to Dieppe, has
been towed into a French port.
There were thirty Americans aboard
the Sussex, which left Folkestone,
Thursday, sh rtly after noon, in clear
weather. The vt-,.,cl proceeded with
out incident until 4:20 p. ni when
she w.s siruok amidships as she was
approaching the coast of France. A
terrific crash followed and several
hands in the engiue room were badly
injured. Wireless messages brought
help from both sides of the channel
and all the passengers were rescued.
School elections will 'be held today In ' .
many of the school districts In the; :-
county and, , wi.h the . exception ot fl
he bond election held at AUamo soma f
. ' f ,
months ago, this will be the first oppor- -1
rjunlty for the women to exercise; the
BANDITS MURDER FARMHAND.
Shot Down in Presence of Four
Friends Who Had Been Bound.
Idaho Falls, Idaho. After subduing
and binding Dave Evans, George
Jackson, . Billy Haywood and Frank
Young, farmhands, in the bunkhouse of
the New Sweden Irrigation company
two miles west of Idaho Falls, Friday
night, two masked bandits met Wilbur
Breckinridge approaching the ranch
and in the hearing of the four men
held helpless, literally riddled his
body with bullets. Not until early
Saturday morning, when the farm
hands succeeded in freeing them
selves, was the body' of Breckinridge
found where it had fallen.
I
a. vacancy on1 hhe Panaca board, there
will be two elected for short term trus
tees and the candidates are Rachael
Denver. Eliza j Keel. - Benjamlnl
Wadsworth and Charles P. Mathews. A
large number of the J'new voters' reg
istered and the -prospects . of a ' lively
contest Is good, s ' . ;,
In Pioahe 26 women made application
to Dr. ' Stockham, clerk of the board, to
be registered; but contrary to expecta
tions, noY one of them appeared as can
ididates, as a result the election here
will not be contested. Dr. Stockham and
B. L. Smith, the retiring members ofl
the Pioche board, filed their names, the
'ormer; fot long term and the latftit
short term trustees, ' 'ifo the board,
will have the same members as at pres'
ent for the next two years.
- - Three Slain by Mexicans.'
.Douglas, Ariz. Two American wo
men and one man were killed 'near
Gibson's Line ranch on the-New Mex
iaan-Mexico boundary, eight ; miles
west of Columbus, N. M., presumably
by . Mexicans.
Norwegian Bark Safe.
Gulfport, Miss. The Norwegian
bark Dova Lisboa, which left Rio Ja
neiro January 3 tor Gulfport and
Pensacola and had not been heard
from, reported Friday night, the .had
anchored off Pensacola.
CABAL
; WAR WITH MEXICO
ADMINISTRATION OFFICIALS BE
r LI EVE POWERFUL INTERESTS
ARE FOMENTING MOVEMENT. "
BRITISH MAKE AIR
RAID III 6ERI1IAII1
TWO GERMAN PATROL VESSELS
ARE SUNK AND A BRITISH
DESTROYER LOST.
President May Take Leaal Steps to
Stop the Agitation, and Tighten
Censorship So as to Prevent
Alarmist Reports.
or the office -off county recorder and-
auditor. This will be ' his first en
trance. Into the arena of politics; he
Is well qualified to fill the office which
he seeks and if successful will undoubt
edly make h good county officer.
Joe Is the second person to announce
his candidacy .for this office, Alex.
Lloyd of Pioche having declared some
weeks ago that "his hat Is in the ring'
foil he place.
1
The county commissioners will meet Ir
regular session at the court house next
Wednesday.
ft 1
The Round Mountain Mining com
pany, the property of which is located
at Hound Mountain, Nev., has taken
over all of the Interests of the Round
Mountain Power & Water company in
the Round Mountain district, including
all water rights of the Jefferson and
Shoshone creeks.
From Butte comes . word that al
though about 400 tons more concen
trates were treated tn the oil flotation
plant of Butte Superior during Feb
ruary than during January, there was
a decrease of $7.60 a ton In' value of
concentrates and decrease in the cost
ot production of 55 cents a ton
That the demand for the metals,
udi peroM tha Cnttsd Stats, and fata th.li ottic tor tbWU
Don't forget that the Record naa such as copper, lead, zinc and silver,
will toe much greater alter the Euro
fisan war is overhand thatt as a conse-
Washlngton. What are regarded as
evidences of activity of powerful In
fluences to force intervention in Mex
lco through the spreading of alarmist
reports were discussed at Friday's
cabinet meeting, and resulted In the
preparation of a formal statement on
the subject by Secretary Lansing.
Administration officials believe that
a definite effort is being made to,
bring about war between the United
States and Mexico. One cabinet mem
ber expressed the opinion ' following
the meeting that the attempts to
force intervention were backed by in
terests owning property tn northern
Mexico. Well-defined steps were be
ing taken, he said, to stir up public
opinion in Mexico and the United
States to the point where a general
.clash between the two nations would
be inevitable.
Several warnings against spreading
alarmist reports have been issued by
administration officials - already, and
it was said that President Wilson,
deeply resentful over the situation,
was determined that the agitation be
brought to an end.
Legal steps to stop the spreadin
of false uews are understood to be
under consideration, but officials have
t not decided yet. what can be done
One step suggested was the use of
law against the publication of reports
calculated to Incite to "arson and
rlot.w , . .
svasva -fc.wtsfG t sva, au
Ul. will also b. tha. am' to carry -ZZZ? . "V wm mwh tlw Euro-
.... .. - ' - raie. vau iU WXll)
Three British Hydroplanes Brought
Down by German Guns, Five Of
ficers Being Made Prisoners
After Escaping Death.'
ight of suffj-age. In soma disitWfa 1 1
women have come out as' candidates and !
no doubt In those districts particularly,
the election will be of unusual ufiereat. .
. ...... . . -j.
At Panama there are three women and K
three men candidates. For long term fl
trustee Mrs. Elisabeth Butler isr contest- I1
ng with H. S. Edwards! Because 4T P
...
1 C
BECKMAN WAS FOULLY
MURDERED AT CALIENTE
1 1 9
t3
The finding of the body of T. IU
Beckman, the Good Springs mining man.
In a ditch , in the southern end of the
witch- yards at Callente wlfh ?! hi
throat -.ciu from, ear to -ear- lnavea.0 -doubt
' but that he 'was -murdeTed for f
his money.' . '-"'' "' -. . 4--
Beckman leftP ioche on the Jtii ln..
I W .'WHntrto' gO -ffcTT ,tq- O6od Springs,
It is believed 4ie, was 'killed sometime
that1 hlghffr . Whim he. kjjft here he was
accompanied bjr a .'stranger,. -Saho the
officers' believe, .1s the man. who commit
ted the crime; biiki no'fS-ace of he fellow
has been found. Sherlffonnow-and Dls.
trlct Attorney Orr ;'ranN,down ' eeveral
clues hut wlthoufthe. desired "resist. 1
Beckman must! have been dead all of '
two weeks before the body was found
and was In a bad sta't'e. of decomposi
tion when the dlscoverywasjep'orter to
Deputy -Rex Mathews 'and others at
Cahentet ';' " -:: !....-.-.
1
UNKNOWN
MAN BURIED
AT COUNTY"
EXPENSE
London. -Three British aeroplanes
which took part in a raid on German
airship , sheds In Schleswig-Holstein
are missing. Two German patrol ves
sels were . sunk and a British de-
etroyer is believed to have been lost.
Dispatches from Esjberg, Denmark,
to the Berlingske Ttdende says Reu
ter's Copenhagen '-correspondent re
ports a great naval battle between
the German and British fleets some
three miles off the Graady lightship
at midday Sunday. '
The dispatch adds that-Tondern in
Schleswig-Holstein has been bombard
ed by five aeroplanes.
A dispatch to the Exchange Tele
graph company from Copenhagen says
ihe German armed trawlers sunk by
the British outside Sylt harbor were
named Braunschweig and Otto Ru
dolf. :
A dispatch from Berlin says that
not less than three -British hydro
planes, among them a fighting aero
plane, were brought down by German
guns on and about the island of Sylt,
during an air raid on northern Schles
wig. Tbe inmates of the machines,
who were made , prisoners, are four
English officers and one non-commissioned
officer. Bombs were only
thrown In the district of the Hoyer
water gate. No damage was done.
Corbner - Harris has been .unsuccess
ful in finding any clue to the Identity
of the miner found dead on the-Prince1
Consolidated tracks ,Qast week and tha
fellow was burled in the city eemetry
last Thursday When found the unfortu
nate man had no coat and no papers of
any kind were In his clotlhlng- to de
termine who he was. He had been In
camp bu'fi a - few days and is known 'to
flave gone to Jack: Rabbit In search o
work.. ., ' - -v '
... 1 t .
ORE SHIPMENTS FROM
NEVADA HOAN SILVER
J. L. Whipple, who has a lease ori
the Nevada Horn ; Silver mine in - Fair
view district, has. begun hauling- ore
tjo Pipe he for .shipment to ' the Utah,
smellers. t - ..." .
PRINTER STRIKES IT
' .' ' IN A COMET
CLAIM'
F. H. Man sir, . formerly employed In?
the composing room . of the Record -but
Who has been employed at the Silver
Comet mine, at Comet for several month!
has iSrauck , some high .grade ' ore ' or(
a claim' located by himself and another
Jjarfy recently. It Is said to be one of.
the best looking prospects In the Comet
dfstrijet.' '
MORE
FORDS FOR "
, THE .CITY - QARAQE
Army Reorganization Measurt.
"Washington. The first of the na
tional defense measures, got before
tho senate for general debate on Tues
day when the army reorganization
bill was made the unfinished business.
The OiVy Garage has. placed an order
for anoifher lot of Ford cars, five tour-
ing cars and two- runabouts, which-, are
scheduled to leave : Los Angeles ' April
4th. ' ' ' "
' mm.' .;
Vines Con Shipments-
Disabled Steamer Arrive.
New York. The Mallory liner Ala
mo, recently in distress off the Atlan
tic cnunt Brrivpd here Saturday in
, It was also understood that .tha ad tQW Qf othef vesseis; ghe carried flf
ministration had under consideration pt91iengefS and was on her way
tightening the censorship on Mexican porto to New yorfct
The-ore shipments), from the Prince
k?on. mine this ' week amounted to at 1
total of 72 cars: ' ....
Alt Should See It
No one should-, miss seeing, the Salt
Lali ; lloiite . demonstrB.'tlor "train 'which '
will be at Panaca on the Ijth Inst S'ee
advertisement .tit thl' Issue. " , ,
Mrs.. .M.k hrkatensen -and .mother of
Calien'te arrived in town yesterday and
expect to return home today.
