THE COLFAX CHRONICLE
Absorbed the GRANT PARISH DEMOCRAT May 1, 190S
A Democratic Journat, devoted to Local and 6meneral News, Literature, Science, Hgriculturc, tc.
VOL. XL COLFAX; GRANT PARISH, LA., SATURDAY, APRIL 1, 1916 NUMBER 24
Mexican and Foreign War News.
On March 9 the relations be
tween the United States and
Mexico became greatly strained,
when Francisco Villa at the head
of several hundred bandits raid
ed the town of Columbus, New
Mexico, killing nine civilians and
eight American soldiers. The
13th U. S. Cavalry, stationed
just outside the town, responded
at once to the alarm and drove
the marauders back across the
Mexican border. How many
Mexicans were killed is not
known, but it must have been
between 75 and 100, including
Pablo Lopez, the second in com
mand to Villa himself. Presi
dent Wilson acted immediately
on receiving the news, and or
dered five thousand troops to
pursue Villa at once and capture
him dead or alive. The puni
tive expedition was delayed three
or four days, until Gen. Funston
could mass two columns of troops
at different points on the border
and give them orders as to how
they were to proceed. They
then set out on the trail, and are
now about 200 miles in Chihua
hua, and scouting among the
Sierra Madre mountains hunting
for the bandits. Carranza, the
defacto president, has agreed to
assist in the hunt for Villa and
his outlaws. In the meanwhile
the whole American people are
in a ferment of excitement over
the outcome, and many persons
think it will be almost impossible
or the United States to avoid
embroiled in war with
Mexico abo matter.
The war in Euro d Asia
Minor and on the high seas has
continued in various quarters
with increased vigor upon the
approach of spring. This is es
pecially the case at the great
fortress of Verdun on the French
frontier, where the Crown Prince
of Germany has made many fierce
attacks within the past two
weeks in massed formation, and
has sacrificed thousands of his
soldiers in the attempt to take
the French fortifications, which
seem to have withstood the or
deal with but little material dam
age.
Along the 700-mile front in
Russia, where the opposing
troops of the German Emperor
and the Czar have been dug in
with locked horns all winter
there is great activity. Berlin
reports say the Russians have
attacked at many points, but
have been driven back with great
slaughter, while Petrograd ad
vices claim that the Russians
have made successful attacks at
several points. One thing how
ever, remains undisputed, and
that is that the Grand Duke of
Russia has smashed his way into
the back door of Turkey, ad vanc
ing through the Caucasus and
capturing Erzemroum, the chief in
land city of Turkey, and is now
threatening Trebizond, its chief
port on the Black Sea.
With slightly varying success
the war in the Balkans and on
the high seas continues about
the same with slightly increased
vigor and confidence in the ranks
of the allies.
Judse's Order.
To J. J. O'Quius, Clerk of Court and
Ex-Oejo Jury Commissioner for the
Ptrisk of Grant, Louisiana:
You are hereby.ordered to assemble
the Jury Commissioners of Grant par
iah, Louisiana, and select a grand jury
to serve for the April term of court and
assemble and report for duty on the
Arut Monday of April, 1916 at 9 o'clock
a. m; and at the same time draw a
veire of forty jurors to serve during
said April term of court, to report for
dutyat 8 a. m. the second Monday of
A l1i, 1818
Do and signed at Alexandria, La.,
this tihe 18th day of March, 1916.
- JAMES ANDREWS,
Judge 18th Judicial Dist. Court
Sead us your job priating orders.
Democratic Nominees.
For Governor
RUFFIN G. PLEASANT
For Lieutenant Governor
FERNAND MOUTON
For Secretary of State
JAMES J. BAILEY
For State Auditor
PAUL CAPDEVIELLE
For State Treasurer
HENRY HUNSICKER
For Attorney General
A. V. COCO
For Register Land Office
FRED J. GRACE
For Commissioner of Agriculture
HARRY D. WIiSON
For Superintendent Education
THOMAS H. HARRIS
For Senator, 27th District
S. J. HARPER
For Representative
Q. A. FOSTER
For Sheriff
L. O. CLINTON
For Clerk of Court
J. J. O'QUINN
For Assessor
J. M. STRAUGHAN
For Coroner
DR. E. H. BLACKWOOD
For Members Police Jury
Ward 1-W. A. BROWNLEE
2--J. M. JONES
" 3-J. J. DEWITT
4-0. C. WATSON
6 -W. R. BUFFINGTON
6-C. W. CALHOUN
" 7-G. C. PURVIS
For Justices of Peace
Ward 1-J. Q. LONG
2-C. U. ROBINSON
C. M. FULLER
3- ODUS WATSON
" 4-T. O. NUGENT
" 5-W. W. DUNN
" 6--F. P. BULLITT
7-B. A. FORTSON
U. E DEWITT
For Constables
Ward 1-D. M. McKNIGHT
2-JOE T. LEE
E. M. BARTON, JR.
3-J. H. BRUNSON
" 4-S. K. SMITH
5-G. L. BARRETT
6--H. M. DENTON
" 7-T. L. DEAN
C. J. HUTCHINSON
MARRIED.
SMITH-MADDOX-At the home of
the bride's parents in ward two, Grant
parish, La, on Wednesday, March 22,
1916, at 7:30 p. m., Mr. G. C. Smith
and Miss Amanda Maddox were u:aited
in marriage, Judge R. L. Parish offi
ciating.
The groom is a resident of Winn par
ish, where he is engaged in farming.
The bride is the daughter of Mr. and
Mrs. W. R. Maddoxof the Olive Branch
community. The popularity of the
couple was attested by the large con
course of-friends, and among the many
friends assembled were many men and
women of mature years, with hair
plentifully streaked with gray who
had come several miles over rough
roads in order to offer their congratu
lations, and a wish for a bon voyage
on the matrimonial sea. After the
ceremony was over the young people
repaired to the home of Mr. Mike Mad
dox, where those who were so inclined
engaged in tripping the fantastic toe
to the sweet strains of music furnished
by the Bentley string band, until the
small hours. The writer joins with
the host of friends of this young couple
in wishing them all that goes to make
life a success. A FRIEND.
For Your Child's Cough.
If your child has a cold, nose runs, or
coughs much get a small bottle of Dr.
Bell's Pine-Tar-Honey. Its a pleasant
pine-tar-honey syrup, just what chil
dren like and just the medicine to
soothe the cough and check the cold.
After taking, children stop fretting,
sleep good and are soon entirely well.
Insist on Dr. Bell's Pine-Tar-Honey.
29c at your druggist--Adv.-l,.
Why Constipation Injures;
The bowels are the natural sewerage
system of the body. When they bt
come obstructed by constipation a part
of the poisonous matter which they
should carry off is absorbed into the
system, making you feel dull and stu
pid, and interfering with the digestion
and assimilation of food. This condi
tion is quickly relieved by Chamber
lain's Tablets. Obtainable every
where.--Adv.
Notice to Applicants for Licenses to
Teach School
Notice is hereby given that the next
regular examination for licenses to
teach in the public schools of Grant
parish will be held in the court house
at Colfax, La., on April 3, 4 and 5, 1916
for white; and April 6, 7 and 8, 1916.
for negroes. All applicants are re
quested to be on hand promptly at 8
o'clock a. to,. at which time the exami
nation will begin.
Colfax, La., March 2, 1916.
J. N. WARNER,
Parish Superintendent of Education.
Proclamation of Election.
STATE OF LOUISIANA I
Parish of irantit.
ly the aut hority ve,*ted in us by law and In ac
ordatlneI wIth :lld in pIuraiance to the proclama
tio, of l II E .el;lem'i y luther E. Hall. Governor
,of the State of l.ouisiina. we do hereby order an
mh., tioli ,,f the a lyotliftA d voiter to be held In the
p:ir-i+h ilf 4rnit. State of oI.nlsana. at the usual
ph:ine*s for hllllig el.etiollns ill said parish, on
TI It'Es Y. AI' I II. 19141.
salt diate le lahJig the Tuesday following the third
Monndai il Pa-ijl m.itnth.
T'Ihei l:',tio m , o .rdlred to be held Is for the
purIllpse nf ,.e' r.tini the fll, ing oficers.to-wit:
.411 of th,' S,',te miflh.-ern of the State of Loulil
:tmll.: .n." r,.:: totr fir the 27ith senatorlaldistrlet:
ill .f thelii pa It anid ward otflerers of the parish
of (;ruant. l.oiisitn.
S auiml eh.tlio,. to :,t held itn awcordanee with the
g Inerl e ""on lt on,: of the Stale of Louisiana
land lidue ,tl-, to I.- madl as the law directs.
The folhI Ir: U r., manieeoiIners and clerks aret
hI.r biy a;po,lt..td. dir .-t-.l and enupowered to
hm.d said tekels;.in ar.-rling to law. vit:
WAItRI ONE.
(',olfix- t. W Lewis. I:. E. MliKnlght. Joe Car
ver. mmnmiliaesonrers; E. A. Perkins,. clerk.
l-alrtrmtont-G. IV. Deanu. J. I'. Lewis, J. (.
Smith, comnlmisloners;: Jlno. Randolph. clerk.
WAItD TWO.
Pollock-C'. . ItRobinson. T. L. Raider. W. L.
Johnsonl. cotunlllmssi ers; J. A. (thrlstian. clerk.
SIammr--.l. I. it) T. J. McDonald, A. E.
I Prnlt . colu n l iasio er;: It. F. Ielvege. clerk.
liruc,-H. I.. Irwin. J. (. Torry, Geo. Fuller.
co,:miahloners: i'. E. Railey. clerk.
llagtdid-J. S. tray. .1. W. Hadnot. L. E. Had
not. commrissionnu r.: W. It. Jackson, clerk.
WAtl) THRKE.
Antonia--J. W. Barr,nn.P . L. Miles. N.G. Mor
gan. corumisioners:; E. J. Fanlkner, clerk.
l'r,-ed--W. I. Futrcell, J. W. Martin, T.a. Deen,
cilnniuseiollers: W. E Murry, clerk.
IDry l'r,ngtu-W. N. c.reed. '. W. Nettles, C. H.
Brister,. commnilu4lsolerl; Ray Watson, clerk.
WAIIR FmOUlt.
1.litrcum--l. HH.Nugeut. T. H. West. W. G.
i iinclrum.com mm nissloere: Flhtcher Mathi, clerk.
BIuchkclw--J. E. Nugent. B. F. Moore. J. F.
Iuckelew., commiunillonere: W. L. Nugent. clerk.
W\VAli FIVK.
ltRnihe'le-.T. E.. liais, W. C. Dman. F. P. Till
mal. cotInl eanslnie:: S. ,t. Simmonts. clerk.
S,.lli,--.F. N. Fullerton, B. F. Haruamb M.C.
Starks. cormmaiioetr.i: 1. M. Ussery. clerk.
4 Ilt11 SIX.
Snmnlerflrll-l. McMills. Sam Johnslln. John
tlullitt, cotlllululsonters . tlnos Ilichardson. clerk,
HARD SI EN.
Morntgonmery-it. A. Klllingsworth. J. F. Ward
low, I. A. .Sellers. commissioners; C. E. Woods.
i-hrk.
t-rdla-J. S. Brister. W. L,. Bird. E. A.Spencer.
miti nismaloners; R. J. Fletcher, clerk.
liI testimonlly wherof witnesl ouroiflecalligns
Siiiee at Iolfax. lirallt p~ellsh. Louslaana. on this
2,th day of March. A. D. 19161. in the pressure of
the two attestilung witnesses of lawful age and
dotilcile. wlho sign as such on this day and date.
.I R. OBfERTS.
C. D. IAiCKolX.
J. J. O'QU'INN.
H. G. (OOL)WYN,
Sulp-rvimors of Election. Grant Parish, l.a.
Sheriff Sale.
State of Louisiana, Parish of Grant,
13th Judicial District Court.
No. 3190.
Albert Hardtner Co., Ltd. vs. Wiley
Walker et als.
By virtue of a writ of seizure and
sale issued out of the Honorable 13th
Judicial District Court and to me di
rected in the above numbered ana en
titled suit, directing and commanding
me to seize and sell the property of de
fendant, I have seized and will offer
for sale at the principal front door of
the court house in Colfax, La., between
the hours prescribed by law for judi
cial sales, on
SATURDAY, April 29, 1916,
the following described property, seiz
ed as the property of the defendant
herein, to-wit:
160 acres of land, being the west
half of the northeast quarter and north
west quarter of southeast quarter, and
northeast quarter of southwest quarter,
all in section 22, township 6 north,
range I west, Louisiana meridian.
Terms of sale-Cash, with the bene
fit of asopraisement.
Colfax, La., March 22, 1916.
A. B. PERKINS,
Sheriff of Grant Parish, La.
Sheriff Sale.
State of Louisiana, Parish of Grant,
13th Judicial District Court.
Leander Willett vs. Thomas L. Rader.
No. 3218.
By virtue of a Writ of Fieri Facias
issued out of the Honorable Thirteenth
Judicial District Court, and to me di
rect.d in the above numbered and en
titled suit, directing and commanding
me to seize and sell the property of de
fendant. I have seized and will offer for
sale at the principal front door of the
court house in Colfax, La., between
the hours prescribed by law for judicial
sales, on
SATURDAY, APRIL 22, 1916,
the following described property. seiz
ed as the property of the defendant
herein, to-wit:
South half of the southeast quarter
of section 31, township 7 north, range 1
east, Louisiana Meridian, and the north
half of the southwest quarter of sec
tion 2, township 6 north, range 1 west
Louisiana Meridian, together with all
buildings and improvements situated on
said lands.
Terms of sale-Cash, with the benefit
of appraisement.
Colifax, La., March 17, 1916.
A. B. PERKINS,
Sheriff of Grant Parish, La.
Dangers of Drafts.
Drafts feel best when we are hot and
perspiring, and when they are most
dangerous and the result is neuralgia,
stiff neck, sore muscles or sometimes
an attack of rheumatism. In such cases
apply Sloan's Liniment. It stimulates
circulation to the sore and painful part.
The blood flows freely and in a short
time the stiffness and pain leaves.
Those suffering from neuralgia or neu
ralgic headache will find one or two ap
plications of Sloan's Liniment will give
grateful relief. The agonizing pain
gives way to a tingling sensation of
comfort and warmth and quiet rest and
sleep is possible. Good for neuritis too.
Price 25c at your druggist.-Adv.-l.
Notice.
Trespassing is not allowed on my
premises under penalty of the law.
m11-5t"c EMILY F. BILLIS.
Lost.
A ladies' blue coat, on model road be
tween Rochelle and Colfax. Finder
notify the Chronicle, or Dr. W. R. Buf
fington, Rochelle, La.
JUDICIAL SALE.
State of Louislana. Parish of Rapides, Thirteenth
Judicial Distrlet Court.
Lee Lumber Company, Ltd.. vs. Sherman Cook
and M. L. Alexander.
No. 10,1e3.
By virtue of and to satisfy an order of setsure
and sale iassued from the Honorable 13th Judic
ial Distrlict Court. and to me directed as sheriff
and ex-oflmio auctioneer of Rapidee parish, Lou
ilasna. directing and commanding me to seinel
and sell. for cash. to the last and higbeht bidder.
without benefit of appraisement, at public auc
tion, after legal advertisement and accordiug to
law, the hereinafter dseribth:d property. I will
offer for sale to the last and highest bidder. , t
public auction, at the front door of tie court
ouse In Alexandria, Louisiana. between the
hours prescribed by law. on
Saturday, April 22, 1916,
the following deseribed property. to-wit:
The following descrlbed lands situated on the
north side of Red river and la the parirhs of
Rapides ant (rant, in the State of Loaisiasa,
to-wit: West half of SW qr. NE qr of SW qr.and
E hf of E hf of section 24 in township 6 north,
range I east.
North half of section 18; W hf of NW qr, SW
qr. 8 hf of nE qr of section 17; NE qr. S hi of NW
yr, N hff f 8W qr. N hi of SE qr.aod SE qr of ME
qr of section IS; all of section YS (with the excep
tion of S hf of N E qr); W ht of SW qr. and 8E qr
of SW gr of section21; SW qrof sectlon S; NW
gr of Ns.r.Nhfof NWqr.W qrofNWqr. and
SE qr of qr of section 29; NE qr of NE gr of
aection 31; E hf of K hf of seetion 32; S hf of NE
qr. NW qr of SE qr. NW qr of NW qr. S hf of N W
qr. and NW qr of section .13; W hf of NW qr of
section 34; all in township ntorth, range S east.
Northeast quarter of HE qr of section 23; the
northern portion of section 42, contalaing 153
acree, and dacribed as commenclag where east
line of said section 42 interserts Bayou Flageon,
thence run south on east line of said section 42 a
distance of one-half mile, thence weat 7% degrees
north 9-16 of a mnle, thence north on west line of
section 42 to Bayou Flaggon. thencealongBapyou
Flaggon to point of beginning; all that portion
of section 43. bounded north by the old Milhus
and Daugre tract, east 4y sertion 44. south by
section 48. in townshbip 4 north, range I east, and
west b.i- section 42, and containing a quantity of
471 acres, which mdoes not include Howard tract
of 50 acres; all of section 45 (with the exception
of NW qr of NW qr, and NW qrof $E qr); allin
township 5 north. range 1 east.
All of section 4 (with the exception of 8B qr of
NE qr and NE qr of SE qr): all of section 9(with
the exception of the E hf of NE qr); SE qr of IS
qr of section 8: all of fractional section 17; lot I
of fractional section 20, contalaing a qusatity of
120.96 acres; all of fractional section 23; SW qr
of SW qr. and 8 hf of SE qr of ssetlon S4; the
fractional SW qr of section 5; all of section 40,
being the John Burney grant; all of fractional
section 27; all of fractional section 32; all of fra
tional section 33; all of section 35 (being the
lesaac Frasier grant) lying north of the north
line of sections 42. 43 and 44 produced; all of sec
tion 36 lylug north of Bayou Flaggon; all of sec
tion 5 lyiung south of Bayou Flaggon; all of see
tion 41 (with the exception of SEqr of SEqr); all
In township 5 north, range 2 east.
All of section I (with the exception of 8 hf of 8
W qr); lot 1, and 8 hf'of 8 hf of section 2; N W qr
of section 15; E hf of NE qr, and E qr of section
16; all of fractional section 48, all in township 4
north, range I east.
Which lands a to a total quantity of
10,915.70 acres, a are further shown on plat an
nexed to the act of sale and mortgage from Lee
Lumber Company, Ltd., to Sherman Cook and
Y. Leigh Alexander. of date March 7. 1912. and
colored gree on said plat.
Excepting however certain timber and rights
of way as reserved anid excepted In said act of
sale fromu said Lee /.umber Co.. Ltd., to said
Cook & Alexander of said date March 7. 1912 and
recorded in Conveyance Book 61, page 36, of the
Records of Iapids pariah, and also excepting
the following described properties released from
the efrect of said mortgage aid vendor's lien.
to-wit;
(a) Lots 1. 2,.. 4, 5 and of section 27: Iota 1.
2, 3. and 4 of section 32; all of fractional section
33; all that portion of section 40 lying southeast
of tie dividing line between sectione 4 and S1 in
said township and range produced in a direct
line north through section 40 until It Intereects
with the dividing line between lot 3 of said sec
tion 27 and fractional section I1 produced in a
direct west line, which southeast portion of said
section 40 so released contains 32S.80 acres; all
that portion of section or grant 35 lying north
of the north line of sections 4, 43 ana 44 prodlue
em. which portion so releas edonitalas 415.13
acres: all in towntship I north, range east: and
as released by said Lee Lumber Co.. L.td., into the
act of sale from said Cook and Alexander to Eli
I'. Williams dated January 14,I1915. and recorded
in Conveyane Book 59, page 145 et seq.
Ib) Southeastqr. N hf. N hf of 8W qr of section
I: . hf of .E qr. dh bf of SW qr, sad Lot I of se
tion2: NW qr of section 15; 5C qr and E hf of
NE qr of section 16: all of fractional section 45;
all in township 4 north.range l east. Thenorth
ern portion of ·ctlon 412eontlJnlingli3 acres and
deserlbedl as commencing where the east iue of
sld mrtion 42 intersects Rayou Flaggon. and
thence ran south on east liner of said section 42
one-half mile. thence wet 7% destees north .4C
of a mile, thesbe north on west line of said see
tion 42 to Bayon Flaggon. theace aiong Bayou
Flaggos to point of beginning. Allthbatportion
of section 45 tounded north by'h the old Milhaum
and Daigre tracts, east by rsection 44. south by
sectlon 48, and west by section 4t. contanilas
471 acree. which does not include the Howard
tract of 4 acres; NE rr. bhfofNW qr SW qr
of NW qr. N hf of W qr. 8 hf of 8E qr of section
45; all in townsbin 5 north, ralge I eaS All of
sectilo 38 lying south of Bayou FlaYgon: N hf
and N hf of E qr of anretlon 41. all La towsuhip 6
north, range 2 east. Which releas mentioned io
this paragraph to that made by saild Lee l.mber
Co. in act f sale from said Cookt and Alexaader
to the Louisiana Investment A SeerltLee Com.
pany., dated Msrek 5, 1914. and recorded In Con
veyance Book 53. page 532.
(c) Southwest qr of BE qr of sertion 41. towo
ship 5 north, range 2 east, as per release of Ie
Lnmber Cormpaany to (eorge Hilavaty an per act
recorded in Con('ore.veyance Book 48. page 54.
(d) Southwest quarter of asectioa41.towmnship 5
north. ranas 2 east, as per act of rlese f(rom
i, Lamber Company to Fredereirk Braugh. re
corded is Convreaeyr e ook 6. page 482.
(el) Northeaet qr of SE qr of sertion 45 town
ship Inorth. rauge 1 eget. as per releese from
Lee Lumber Co. to Job N. nbveley. ecorded
La (conveyr~ance Book , folo 414.
Terms of ale-Cash. without appraisenLt.
Alexandria. La.. Marsh 14, I1IS.
F. E. DAVID.
Com ing
ALABAMA
Minstrels
The only show with International Fame
POSITIVELY the LEADER
A Superb Production. Brilliant, Clever
Merry, Clean, Fascinating
MUSIC SONGS COMEDY
A tidal wave of superiority, embracing
genuine unbleached negro comedians
Don't fail to see this Show:
As it is positively the only Big Colored Mlnstr*
that will visit you this 'season
The greatest of ail Colored Comedians sad the all;
Excelling Company
AU that is good, Al that is new in Misu .
A BIG SHOW
All the Way from Alabama
COLF.AX
Under Canvas
Wednesday, April 5ti
Prices, 25c and 35c
Cat This Oat---It Is Worth Monsy.
Don't miss this. Cut out this slip,
enclose with Sc to Foley & Co., Chicago,
Illinois, writing your name and address
clearly. You will receive in return a
trial package containing Foley's Honey
and Tar Compound, for lagrippe cogh
colds and croup, Foley Kidney Pills,
and Foley Cathartic Tablets. J. W.
Duncan Co.-Adv.
- _ ___j
ti
Wake up bu if 1
The Bell Telephone is the Big Ben of Businem.
Ring up on the Bell.
You may talk about dull times 'till you lose
your breath but it won't help matters, save you
breath to talk into your-Bell Telephone.
Ring up old customers, then start on a fresh III.
of prospects, there is no quicker way - none that
saves more time or xpene..
If you hiven't a Bell Telephone, get one now. ,
Call the Business office for rates.
CUMBERLAND TELEPHONE
& TELEGRAPH COMPANY
01X 223 At.UrAw A."
,. .
Fbst RBle of .e4f felth.
All seboels of .dici e pee that lit
is aecsseary to keep the b e
and regular if one wish.e tojiyg
health. Ineigestion poisons 6theq
and invites disease. Foley Cat
Tablets cese the bowels wait '
log or aousea, beaish blesgu·,ew~;
the stomsea, and invigorate
J, W. Dacan Co.-Adv.
