A VOTE AOAINST PLEASANT IS A VOTE AGAINST THE DEMORAT1O PARTY. STAMP THE HslTEl AND BE A DEM R
The True Democrat.
VOLUMe XXV SiT FrANISVILLL. WSST FILICIANA PARISH, LOUISIANA, SATURDAY, APRIL 1, 1916
THE FORD TRACTOR
Model B
Notwithstanding the recent heavy advances in the price of
steel and iron, and praHctically all materials used in its con
struction, THE FORD TRACTOR, New Model "B," with its
many up-to-date improvements, maintains its supremacy as
the lowest priced serviceable tractor c» the market.
F'ull $465. '
Equipped 5 Factory
I HAVE ON HAND ONR TRACTOR, SELLING AT W3 fOe. . FACTORY
CHAS WEYDERT.
,•.---.-- - - .. .. .
HONEST WEIGHTS HONEST MEASURES
CEO. RETTIG
The. Grocer.
HONEST VALUES HONEST PRICES
-.- -L- . I i .- i-- - --. ---
WOODLAWN FARM
J. B. McGEHEE (1836-1918)
We stand upon the threshold of a new yesar, to brinl,
we trust, harder work than ever with its attendant nmauling.
But thus compellinl our faithful fields to unlock their stores
to us and to those dependent, to furnish cheer for the gust
within our gates and help for our less fortunate brother, we
shall Iad as always the complete satisfaction that CUAaTION
is perect and harTI an admirable horme.
Our best wihs to every sentient beingl
SUCCEM LIES IN MUTUAL SERVICe.
J. 8 McGEHEE * * * * Lauerdl Hill, La.
COAL! COALI
When in need of Coal
that will burn, ring
Telephone No. I.
Prompt delivery.
Bayou Sara Ice &
Coal Works.
PARI F9lF OAIZED
Whole Project Now In Hands
of Officers and Directors.
A mase meeting of the citiseas of
West Feliciana Parish was held at the
Pythian Haill, Saturday. Marheb , 1916.
for the purpose of organlling a Parish
Fair Assoclation. On Mseount of the
inelement weather, the attendance was
small.
Judge Lawrason called the meeting
to order
Mr C. AM Downs, as Secretary at the 4
Organiation Committee, read the re
port for that committee. Minutes of
the committee meeting follow:
Pt Prncleville, La.. Mar 14. t11l
Minutes of the meeting of the Or
ganisation (Committee of the West
F'Mlciana PFar Assoctation held In the
ofMfi of the Chairman. R. U (rrump
It was moved by Judge 8. MeC
lawrason and seconded by Dr. Jas
Kilbourne that C M. Downs be elected
Secretary of this meeting. ('arried
The following members were pret
pnt: Messrs R R. Crump. . I Daniel.
J. Bob Danll. Jase. Kilbourne. Itiei
Robinson, 8 Met'. lawraon, and C
M Downa (repreeewttng J D. Wood) I
A quorum or majority of the mema
bers being present the meeating was
called to order by Mr. R. U Crump.
Chairman
The objects and purposes of the
meeting were discussed and it was.
after some discussion, moved by S
Met' lawrason and seconded by J
Rob Daniel that this committee recom
mend to the Association that their 1
organisation is not of a sAuMicitt site a
at present to warrant them i golgtt to
the espense of drawing and publishing I
a charter. which would entati a certatn
amount of expense and that It would 4
he far better to carry on their objects
and purpoes through a set of oacers
to be seltcted by themselve sand leave +
the matter of running the pair to the 4
disretion of the oMfers and directors
and if the enterprise should meet with
popular approval and with eumeee,
that a corporation can be etlected at
a later date Carried
It was then recommended by this
committee that the name of "West
rFelkcana Pair Association" be adopted
as the title of this Assotation. Carried
The following list of ocetrs and
directors are respectfully recommend
ed by this committee to oneduct the
affalrs of the Association In their re
spectlve positions:
Officers - dwsrd Butler. President:
B I. Barrow. Vice-President: . 1.
Daniel. Viee-Preesdent : Henry Stewart.
VicmPresideat; W. W. Burekhsiter,
V\'tcePreldent; beet Wright. Vice
President; W. U. Wood. Treasurer;
R ('rump. Secretary.
Board of Directors -J. Bob Daniel
Iee 0 LJeter. T Butler lawraaon.
Armstead R Kilbourne, W. A Miacti,
There being no further bsiness to
come before this Committee it wM
moved and eeeonded that we adjurn.
Carried C. . DOWNS.
Secretary
It was moveod, seconded and sarried
tcpt the recommendations of the or
tmlisatloa Committee be adopted as
reed sand the oteetrs elected a recom.
mended
SMr. C.M Down made report for
(Commttee on Lecation This Commat
tee recommended that the old oem
pnres builnding and grounds b uOed as
Ithe locastion for the Pair for this yar.
Dr Kilbourne moved to amend the
report so as oto etend a vote of thaks
to M & K Wolf for their generoeity
In pIlowlns the Phair Auaocation the
rC'e use, of the Comprese buitling and
grounds This am dment was s
cept.ed
Mr W. U Wood reported for thf
Coemmittee on tleane. The report was
Ieeepted and committee diecharated
Mr Crump thanked the ladie fotr
their presence and Invited all ladle of
the parish to take pert In the Patr. He
stated tlhat there would be many de
partments of the Fair devoted to things
the ladies were latereeted ia, and that
the PFatr coouId hardly be a sercee
without their hearty coperation.
It wae moved, seonded and arried
that the entire management of the Pair
be turned over to the sarers elected
at *hie maetin
On motoe, the meting adjourned.
Piaseels Sepert.
Previously acknowledged..... $371 W'
N R. Slckaea . . .b. Y0
L. & I. terna. ...... .. S
Total to Monday lghIIt ... ..$40N
T .e Ir. N. COeasny h en.t
(Casiee I ts e)
- -- - -
ATTENTION DEMOCRATSI
"LOUISIANA EXPECTS IVIRY DEMOCRAT TO DO HIS DUTY."
ELECTION DAY. TUESDAY. APRIL 10.
DO NOT FAIL TO GO TO THE POLLS AND STAMP THE ROOSTER.
The eyes of the nation are watchlng us right now. Will we endorse
President Wilson's splendid admnistraltion. or will we endorse Rouse
velt and Republlicanslm? C'ol. R. (. leasant nmade an ope and mally
ight and was overvhelmingly nominated. and It is the duty of every
loyal Democrat to go to the polls and vo the the ticket. To vote for
Ltraight Democracy,
STAMP THE ROOSTER.
IE SON CASE COI NU
AbLet Witnes Caume Trial
To Be Postponed.
3ecauae of the absence of material
witnesses, the trial of Dr. Clarence
Pierson. head of the east Louisiana
Hospital for the Insane, charged by
indletmtent with taking the skin of of
one of the patients and grafting It on
one of his relatives, could not proceed
when the rase was called Monday in
the district court at Cllnton, last
PIllcian parish, and a continuance
was ordered
Dr, 0. P. Daly, who was the operating
assistant at the time of the alleged
skin grafting, was Indicted at the same
time as Dr Pierson. and his cas set
for trial Monday. When his case was
called, he eutered a plea of preserip
tion which was upheld by Judge J L.
Geolsa and the lndictment quashed
Dr. Pierson Insisted on a speedy trial
of his case, but the state could not go
on because of the absence of two
witnesses, who saw the skin-grafting
operation. Dr. Cooper now of Alexra.
dras, and Miss Julia Carney, a nurse
in the Institution.
His attorneys are Kiltbourne and
ether.
alke.
ITR AON AIME
Local Merchants Not Alive to
Situation.
(Hannibal, Mo , Journal.
The mall-order houses do not regard
as a promislng field a territory where
the local merchants une printers' ink
constantly and lavishly. They realise
that the people must be supplied with
'tore news" and when they And a
section of country seglected by the
"home merchant" they proceed to hood
it with their catalogues.
Now, probably some merchant, who
advertises to the extent of $10 or t$1
a year. will at once brand the above
statement as an invention to "scare
merchants Into advertising "
Herman Rosenfeld is the advets
ng manager for . one of the ,largbst
,nail-order houses In the eoun ry, At
a recent convention of the Amerlcan
Ad club, Mr. Roesnteld made a spee,
and among other things said:
"We have a bureau whose duty It is
to read each week the country news
papers from all over the country There
is not a paper of any coasequenee in
our trade territory we do not get 'The
bureau looks over these papers and
when we aind a town where the mer
chants do not advertise in the local
paper we immediately lood that ter.
rttery with our literature It always
brings results far an ecess of the
same elort put forth Is territory where
NOT AULE OWNER
Regular Dipping Started Last
Monday.
t. Franetsvillle, La.. Mar. 11, 1918.
Beginning Monday. March 17. regular
dipping days will be established at all
vats. The Inspector In charg of each
particular vat will notify the Immediate
owners around such vat the day when
dipping will be conducted, and follow
ing dipping days will fall on every
succedinag ?lit day.
It Is espeeially desired to call atten.
lion to the Importance of dipping all
stcok regnlrly. The feenale rattle tlick
matures In about 22 days durlng warm
weather, falls of from the animal
irattle, horses and mules only) and
lays from 1I00 to 1000 eggs. If all the
cattle are dipped regularly no ticks
, Itl h1 on the animala long enough to
mature. consequently there will be no
eggs The small ticks that have not
attached themselves to cattle will die
of starvation In the time that will
elapse from the beginning to the end
of the dipping season.
The successful eredication of the
cattle tick In one seasea depends large
ly upon the coOperaton of the cattle
owners themselves. if every owaer
will see to It that all Oattle to his or
her charge. the calves as well as the
nldee stock all horses. males sad olts
that range on Infected pastures. are
regularly dipped, the quarantine now
existing can be raited at the end of
this season, and the necessity for any
further dipping removed with a mint
mum expenditure of time. money and
tabor. We partclularly requeet the
actlve cooperetlot of all cattle owners,
stock buyers and others who are intera
sted In the development of the pariLh.
0o closely follow the method now em.
,,,oyed and to avoid any violations of
the regulations adopted by the Polle,
.Iry, thereby causing a oontinuatote,
of what should have been anneesary
dippilng.
Drive the cattle slowly and quietly
as possible when britnging to the vat.
without unnecessary beating, and allow
plenty of drinking water. In the hot
su'mer early morning dippings are
best The parish Is well equipped with
the necessary vats and the Inspectors
will be ready at all times to reader
any saseltan possible.
I. N. JARGO, Veterinary lnap,
Bureau Animal Industry
_ , 1 . ,,, , I - _ . .
the local merehants use their oestl
papers."
So the "statemeet" is not an tnven.
tieO, but a faet established by a mall
,rder house itness.
Mallorder houses know they cannot
comlpte with the up-t date, advertle
talg home merchant whean quality of
gwds tI considered.
- I l-.,, = ·
IREE HNAS BEA IAI NA lON i lIlOJ i
(Nattcrhltoches Enteiw º
Mr, Parker and his followers tI!
qtently declare that the pre5ent (ons
taet has no sigtnlleancev with treard
Ito the national electloe this year.
But they are rcearly mistaken.
Mr. WilIoa wll be eopposed by a IRe
ibliesa candidate, and. froN present
Ildclations, that readidate will be 'ol
Roosevelt -Mr. Parker's friend and
patron
The kart, whether the Demcrsats
shall retain control of the government
or whether the Republicans aill tw
returned to power, will be settled. and
lonHistsa must do her part to that
settlesmaet.
utt beyond thil. If Mr RIsele t Is
the naolse., the lao.. whether the
Ui $i ats sall re nNUa at pea e
w ith all the world. or be plunge into I
war with a large portion of the world1
will be the most important one to be
settled
WiII Mr Parker kindly inform the
Democrats, whose vote he is seeking,
how he stands onf this question'
And particularly slll he tell them
on which side the powerful inluences
of the state adminlitration will be
thrown la the event of his eiertion'
Will it be on the side of the Repub
klean candidate sad president, whether
he be Roosevelt or some other Reput}
lcasa; or will it be on the sde side of that
Se.rlesN statesman Woodrow Wilson'
Iurely the Deamooerat of Iaoitaiana
It Inslit spel betag lnformned on
ithese mattners beAe they oaset their
votes for a epu lebssaDomeerat -hr
_*tCWII*
THI PAJIR STANDS PAT
Preseats Proof of Statement
Made In News Story.
0 M. Lester, secretary of the West
.ellciana Parker (lub. takes umbrage
at a statement appearing in our news
itory of the Pleasant meetings at
Orange laill and At Pranelsville, last
week
Mr Iester thought the Bull Moose
cause had been done, such a grave
injustlice in our eolumns that he en
deavored to get the writer to agree to
I"'blish In this isaste of The True
Dkemocrat a communication from the
Parker ('lb. Mr. Lester did not have
a copy of the proposed statement at
the time he sought this committal.
ntaturilly he did not receive asurancoe
that his statement would be published
gratis until it had been submitted, as
The Tree Democrat reserves the right
to dilerentlate between matter that
should be published In refutting a ,
called injustiee and straight out politl.
cal advertising. At the time this arti.
ie was written (Wednesday morningE
nothing further regarding this proposed
stateme~nt has been discussed between
representatives of the Progressive
tparty end the editors of The True
Democrat.
However. The True Democrat eens
to be fair In all things. It also seeks
,be dealt fairly with by lts politieal
opponents As we are In so posltion
'n know how far the report of our so
aRilled tnftat 'nels, has spread. we deem
Sr, the' beet Intereat of all conerned
iv apr the facts in the case.
The statement *hteh disturbed Mr
'.ester'e equanimity of maid was the
'awllinw : "On the afternoon before.
'~rkehr people had driven to the sanm
,nunity and tacked tDp large posters alsl
,long the way. containing reflectIons
'rslner th Democratict party and ('o.
ltieasnt."
Now there are elght separate facts
ountamed in the above lnnoesatblooknlg
'tatempnt. as follows: I. That the
nosters were tacked up an the after
-oon before the Orange Hall meoitlg:
? That the posters were tacked up:
That the posters were taeked up by
Parker people; 4 That the Parker
tennl,. had driven to OIranli Hall:
; That the posters were tacked up all
tlong the way; a That the posters
were lare:; 7. That the posters son'
tamed reflections against the Democrat.
tc party and d. That the posters con.
taloted reflections against ('l, Pleasant.
The Parker people have split hairs
so alnde as to arrive at the conclusion
that specifrlatlon No. 1 Ia unfair, un
.varranted and unjust. Very well. the
Soesetr did not contain a single state
"...nt bearing the words "Democratic
. rty " so the Pirker people appareat
'v atore on a half-treth Rut to pt
at the whole truth, the othler halt of
the truth must be presented The
'ruth of tpecitleation No I elinhebs the
tther half of No. 7 for ('Col. Ptleaaent is
the nominae tof the Demoratic party.
stands for the party in the present
content. and any retrdeetin east at him
's nessarily east at the Democralti
party.
lIst the Parker people should clalm
we have done them injustlie it Is but
fair to them to ive a descrirption of
he !t eter aInsotar at It was taken int
onslderlation lit the article cwontlsithed
of The poster Msy. "A vote tor R. O
Plasant to a vote for Hob Rwlng.
4oasIem Poltrteal ('orrntion. More
'tmecholdersn incread Tasatlion and
Higth Salries"
If ties ie no refletion on the Date4
ray of Loulananl. wh. by an eve.
whetlmine maerity mded Cal. Pleasant
the nseminee. then langurlge has inst it,
force, and the nathlral infrences t. be
drawn are sutpposed to be teo tt abtle
for West PFlilana Democrnatl to graap.
A bltew at Pleasant Is a blow at
D)emoerey
PLEASANT'S ANSWER TO PARKER
IDEA TO END WHITE PRIMARY
"There are but three ways of pre
ventlng the nlegro regaintlnl an I
portant, prhLps a dIeisel platce. In
the politics of the state, via:
"Ptlrt. the terrible shot gun method
by which ) meant all forms of violence
agalnst the person.
"Second. the eIqually immoral and
Illegal, and less mnaly, If ees terrible
method, of stllaling the ballot boa
"Third. the premnt method both
legal and humane,. of settIll all politi
cal ditrlrevies between the whlites In
an esehtmtvely white primary election
il whitlL no one but registered white
en an vetoe.
'It Is this white primary that John
N. Mhare santa to abolslh"
