OHIO MATE
Ukl'' !. ,!TY
- .. I --n .. I I .a SZn " , ,
LIBRARY
INDEPENDENT
NON-PARTISAN
I '
t
Official Organ of the Building Trades Council of Cincinnati and Vicinity
Vol. III. No. 50
CINCINNATI, OHIO, APRIL 1, 1916
One Dollar a Year
3gedDorjla Advocate
I:
i
)
I'l
Oh! Please Mr. Kummer,
Come Back. The Cincinnati Home Brewery, Alias The Ohio Union
Brewery, Is Slipping Again.
This Time It Is the Steamfitters, And You Ought to Do As Much For Them As You
Did For the Iron Workers. The Cambridge Tile Co., Placed On the "We Don't
Patronize List." Wm. Tateman Selected as Umpire By the Arbitration Board.
Col. Adolph Kununer, won't ou please
come back and help the Building Trades
Council once more, as jour job is not
half finished, for the work now being
done at the Cincinnati Home Brewing
Company, alias the Ohio Union Bicvv
cry, took up a great deal of the time
of the meeting of the Building Trades
Council last '1 hursday night.
It seems that after Colonel Kunimcr
straightened out the Iron Workers'
trouble, the next trade in the line to be
insulted by Mr. Ch.is. Proebstlc was the
steam-litters, because the) objected to the
engineer installing new work, being an
expansion loop of 8-inch pipe; but this
engineei, like most engineers who hold
a union card, want to do the work of
everyone else in order to stand in with
the boss.
Sceial business agents told of their
experience with Mr. Chas. Proebstlc,
the "Kulturcd Iljphenatcd American,"
who used vulgar and insulting language
to them about tlio,Bnilding Trades Coun
cil and who took advantage of the fact
that there was a machinists' strike across
the street, where the plant is guaided
with police; otherwise, Proebstlc would
think that he bad run into Bob Lee, of
New Orleans another time.
Brother Fisher, business agent of the
Steamfitters, reported that he took the
matter up with Dae Eans, business
agent of the Machinists' Union, who
told bun that this woik belonged to the
Steamfitters, and that Eans made a trip
out to the blew cry in the mteicst of
the steamfitters but without success. Mr.
Fisher also reported tb.it the engineer
of the Jung Breweiy told him that the
work belonged to the Steamfitters; nev
ertheless Proebstlc sajs that he is go
ing to hae someone else do it.
The Building Trades Council is about
tired fooling with this biewciy, judging
b) the' expressions at the meeting, and
the International Blew cry Workers
should take a baud in this matter and
show our friend Proebstlc that he is
not going to i tin the Building Trades
Council of this cit ; if not, the Council
will put this brewery and their associa
tion on the we don t patrome list and
will make the Central body do the same
thing, notwithstanding the paid agents
of the brewery that are in the Council,
and when that is accomplished thc will
see that it sticks, ecn if we hae to
publish the names of eer saloon who
handles beer manufactured b) this com
pany. Mr. Proebstlc cannot rcahc too soon
that he cannot run the Building Trades
Council of this citj and that his insult
ing and uilgar remaiks made before
policemen will avail him ver) little with
the men who ultimately will do that
work.
During a recent Prohibition campaign,
Mr. Jos. D. Ilruner, an engineer and
secretaiy of the Ohio Laboi League,
which is an organization supposed to
be in tile interests of labor and really
financed b) the brew erics, in making a
speech and appealing to the Building
Trades to support the wet movement,
stated "that if anj time the Building
Trades found union engineei s scabbing
on their work (as m the numerous cases
presented to him that night) for the
Building Trades Council to call on him
and he would guarantee that the mat
ter would be straightened out, if the
Council would onl vote wet."
The Council was reminded of this
promise last I hursdav and a committee
appointed to call on Mr. Burner to give
that gentleman a chance to make good
on his speech.
It is almost certain that the Council
will take drastic action the next time
that the Proebstlc matter comes before
them
The meeting of the Building Trades
Council was called to order last I nurs
day night with Prcs. Jos Cullcn in the
chair The minutes of the previous
meeting were read and adopted.
"UNITED WE STAND
untucky tate jfcticratton of 2Ubor
AFFILIATED WITH AMERICAN FEDERATION OF LABOR
P. J. CAMPBELL, Secy-Treas.
218 Louisville Trust Building
Louisville, Ky., March US, 191G.
MYKKS, Kditor "Tin- Labor Advocate," Ciiit-iiniiiti, Ohio:
W. K
My Dear Sii Your Issues of the IStli and 25th, are at hand
and I want to take issue with ou as to who really straightened
out the situation at the Ohio Union Itrevvery.
With all due respect to the elforts put forth by our mutual
triend Kiinimer, and the plain talking lie did in his eilort to
place the work in the hands ol the lhiilding; Trades Cratts; you
cannot but admit that jour little paper with its stinging rebuke
to the Brewery Workers had just a small hit ot inllueuee that
had a bearing upon the result attained.
Well, old lellovv. Keen tin the
it When they don't come across
condition prevails in every town where they can put it over and
the Council owes you and your paper a debt of gratitude lor the
tearless attitude that you have adopted.
With tery best wishes for your success, I am,
Yours very sincerely,
IMTi:it J. CAMIMIKLL.
The Lviok Amocvii has received over
saloons who sell the
Brother Hock reported that the Ar
bitiation Committee between the Build
ing Trades Council and the Employers'
Association had organized and elected
the follow ing officers :
John Peck, president; Fred llock,
vice-president; Ellis Hummel, treasurer;
Jos. Cullcn, secretary, and that they had
elected Wm. Tateman, permanent um
pire, and Dean Schneider, alternate um
pire. A communication was read from the
Central Labor Council requesting that
the Building Tiades Council co-operate
with them in the Labor Da) outing,
which was concurred in and the secre
tar) ordered to notif) the Central I-abor
Council of its acceptance.
Upon the lequest of the steamfitters.
the Cambridge Tile Co. was placed on
the "we don't patronize" list by the
Council, owing to the fact th.it the boiler
and stcamlitting work was all done b
scab laboi and that they absolutely re
fuse to make ail) change whatever. It
was also moved and seconded that a cop)
of this action be sent to the Tile Setters'
Union.
Ml trades reported business good, and
there being nothing else before the
Council, we adjourn until next Thurs
day night,
OSIIKOSII CAHI'KNTKKS WIX.
Oshkosh, Wis About six weeks ago
the Paine Lumber Company laid off
1.1(1 einplocs who were active 111 the
Carpenters' Union A strike involving
1,200 woikers followed Last week the
dispute was settled satisfactorily to the
carpenters, who ictiirned to work with
their organization intact '1 he compaii
lias been in the hands of a rcceiv er for
about a car
XOX-lTXIOX ISAKKIIY IX KOL1L
St Louis, Mo The McRinucy Bak
ery Compaii) has signed a contract with
Bakers' Union No. I and the Baker
Wagon Drivers' Union, after a short
strike of the latter organization 1 his
; concern has opposed organized labor
'for fifteen )ears
- f
DIVIDED WE FALL"
uootl work and innke them like
'vaTWD't
with the right thing, the same old
00 letters like the above, some fiom
Ohio Union beer.
AUMOK 1'LATIO BILL I'ASSKI).
Washington Iij a vote of ."S to II
the senate passed a bill authoiizing the
construction or purchase of a govern
ment armor plate plant at a cost of 11,
(()(,()()() Debate on the bill was marked
by much bitterness. Senator Ashurst
attacked "certain Presidential candi
dates" for defending the "most outrage
ous monopolv in the United States." '1 he
measure now goes to the house.
KMIlllOlDKItY WOItKKKS WIX.
New York ftcr a six weeks'
stiike cnibioiderv woikers have secured
union shop conditions, flic Embroider
Manufacturers' association has signed
contracts to this effect This settlement
will have an inllueuee on the Jcrse Cm
strike and also on the independent shops
in this cit.v, unionists say
ititiiKii: kmployks wix.
Buffalo. X. V. bout Kill employs
of the Lackawanna Bridge compaii
struck when eight men in the templet
department were discharged because the
urged time ami one-half for oveitime.
The strikers formed a Templet Makers'
union and affiliated to the American
Federation of Labor ftcr several
conferences with the management, the
following was agreed to All einplo.vcs
reinstated, time and one-half for over
time, a .ID-hour week instead of (1 hours,
10 per cent wage increase for all em
ploes, grievances to be adjusted by a
committee of six emplojes and the gen
eral superintendent, a one-) car agree
ment TKAMSTKItS ADVAXCK.
Scrantou, Pa Union shop coutiacts
have been signed by the Teamsters'
Union and diaing conipuucs of this
city The workday will be nine hours
and a fift) -four-hour week, tune and
one-half will be paid for overtime, and
work cuds on Saturda.v at .1 p 111., vuth
Sunday care for horses abolished. The
following wage rates are agreed to
Driveis of two horses, -.11 per week,
single team, $11 ch itiffctirs, 1S. barn
men, 11 per week for a ten-hour da.
Central Labor Council
Endorses Bond Issues
Delegate Is Named to Represent Union Organization
on Loop Campaign Committee.
Central Labor Council last Tuesday ,
night indorsed resolutions to support all I
lioiid issues, including rapid transit, high
pressure sjstem and resurtaemg of
streets, to be voted upon Tuesday,
April 21
The resolutions were sent in b the
Granite Pavers and Rammers, Curb Set
ters, Teamsters, Roller Engineers and
Carpenters' Unions, with a request that
the) be indorsed. Thomas M. Dohert),
International president of the Granite
Pavers' Union, and others, spoke in fa
vor of issuing the bonds
Council will be represented on the
Campaign Committee of the Interurban
Entrance and Rapid Transit Commis
sion b Thomas McManus, Sr. The
commission's request for a delegate met
with opposition, and there was much dis
cussion before the bod) decided to send
a delegate. John Daly, A. P. Tiglie,
Adolph Rummer, Thomas McManus,
Sr , Joseph Brunner, William Smith and
Joseph Mcjung, delegates, led the forces
111 favor of sending a delegate.
Resolutions in favor of an amendment
to the Ohio State Constitution which
will provide for an old-age pension also
were indorsed.
A request from the Park Commission-
ers that Council send a delegate to rep-
PRESIDENT GOMPERS
RGESj:QBGRESSJ;Q4iuis
PROBE PORTO RICO WWIiirIioum Factory.
Washington "Rights assured Porto
Rico workers under Spanish domina
tion are denied them now," declared
President Gompers, March 22, before
the Senate Committee on Pacific
Islands and Porto Rico.
The A F of L Executive urged that
Congress appoint a commission to in
vestigate conditions in that island be
fore legislation of a fundamental char
acter is adopted.
"And let that commission accept
ever courtc-v irom Porto Rican offi
cials"," he said, "but let it go to the
heart of the people, victims of cruel
injustice by exploiters who have been
given even assistance In the govern
ment." Senator Vaidanitu asked President
Gompers if this was the "same crowd
of buccaneers that is in the United
States"
"They are more conscienceless, for
these forces in this countrv can not run
amuck as thev do 111 Porto Rico," re
plied the unionist, who spoke from first
hand knowledge because of his recent
visit to that couiito
It was stated that 111 the present -tnke
of agriculturalists men are clubbed, or
ders aie issued that meeting- of two
j or more person
hill not be permitted,
and worker
are assaulted, threatened.
coerced and intimidated against exer
cisincr their inherent rights President
Gompers submitted a mass of tcstimonv
anil correspondence to the committee
relative to the tieatment of worker
lie read one tvpical letter 111 which a
government official defended a police
man who clubbed strikers The official
said that if the policeman did not club
these strikers, the latter might become
dangerous, and that since the strike
was over, the "policeman would be
reprimanded "
In closing bis appeal that the Senate
Committee favor a Porto Rico Inv esti
mating Commission befoie any Porto
Rico organic legislation is pa-sed, Pres
ident Gompers said
"'lhe oiganized workers of Porto
Rico is the onlj clement that will bind
1 be ties between that country and the
United States Ever) other element
stands for destruction or are sepa
ratists "
WILL ADDltKSS STTDKNTS.
Providence. R I President Gompers
will address the students of Brown uni
versit) next Tuesda.v.
New York President Gompers has
accepted an invitation from the Econ
omic Club of the Columbia universit) to
deliver a lecture to that bud) on Thurs
daj March 10
resent it at a meeting of rcnresentaties
of other organizations Friday night, in
the officesof the Park Board, for the
purpose of discussing community base
ball, was referred to the Executive
Board.
In answ er to a request from the Com
mittee on Industrial Relations it was de
cided to donate $2.1 to help the commit
tee in its work before Congress.
Secretar) Prout was instructed to
write to United States Senators Pom
ercne and Harding and Congressmen
representing the Cleveland district, re
questing them to use their efforts 111
securing a pardon for P. J. Smith,
Cleveland ironworker.
Smith, who is said to be ill. is serving
a sentence at Ft Leavenworth, Ran, as
a result of the structural ironworkers'
djnamite conspirac several ears ago
Delegate Edna Ohiistem, Laundrv
Workers' Union, reported progress in
the lockout of union workers at the Arts
and Crafts Laundry. She asked for
Council's moral support.
The Baker) Drivers' Union also re
ported progress in its strike at the Muth
Baker.
Council decided to affiliate with the
Woman's Trade Union Label League.
whose headquarters are in Chicago.
ixckka.sk dkmaxdki)
Pittsburgh Demanding an increase
of 10 per cent in wages and double pa
when working overtime, Sundas and
holidavs, .!0() men emploved in the tool
department of the plant of the Westing
hotise Electric and Manufacturing Coin
pain in East Pittsburgh, went on strike
riiursdav, March .10.
The compaii has large contracts for
war munitions, and unle-s the demands
are granted bj Frida), March .11, labor
leaders declare an effort will be made
to draw out the entire plant
'I he strikers claim that one of their
most serious complaints is the fact that
the) are expert mechanic-, but make
onlv -n cents an hour, while unskilled
mechanics and schoolbo)s work on ma
chines making shells on a piece-work
basis and receive from s to $10 a da).
A mas meeting wil be held bv the striker-
March .11
BASING POINT
'or Ohio Mineis in Wage Confer
ence To Be Hocking District,
Snjs Chlet.
Athens. Ohio Sanford Sinder, Ath
ens, president ot the United Mine
Workers of the Hocking stibdistrict, an
nounced that the biennial joint confer
ence of the miners and operators will
be held at Locan, beginning Monda.v,
pril 10.
The biennial meeting of the Hocking
mines will begin Wednesdav, April 3
The Ohio miners' organization has de
cided to make the Hocking district the
basing point tor the entire State 111 the
new two- ear agreement on wages and
working conditions.
The joint conference at Logan, ac
cording to President Sn)der. will he the
most important 111 the State, and the at
tendance will be the largest in ears
MINKS TO UK CLOSK1).
Chicago 11 bituminous coal mines
in Illinois and Indiana were closed on
Frida), March .11 and will not be re
opened for three or four weeks. The
shut down is said to have been caused
by the great quantities of coal stored
when it was thought a strike of miners
would begin April 1.
siii:i:t mktal wokkkks gain.
Wheeling, W. Va A contract has
been signed by the Master Sheet Metal
Workers' association and the Sheet
Metal Workers union. The latter has
made the following gams During 1010
wages are increased from $:i.00 to $4
a dav during 1017 the rate will be
M-'o eight hiuirs for live da)S and a
Saturdav half hohda)
J
