fhe St. Mary
à
/Ob
IÄV1 ©
0VIL
FRANKLIN, LA.. SATURDAY, APRIL 1, 1916
NO. 49.
Hon. John M. Parker,
Hon. Harry Fitzpatrick, Hon. Edwin S. Broussard,
And other prominent speakers will address the voters of St. Mary Parish at the
House, Franklin, La., Wednesday, April 12,1916,
AT 3:30 O'CLOCK P. M.
e public is cordially invited to attend this meeting.
LadiespSspecially Invited.
SL
EÈ
&
The First to Comb ine Bridled Force and Scrupulous Thrift — 3400 r. p. in. Chalmers
Performance blent brilliantly with price puts the
3400 r. p. m. Chalmers at $1050 in a position that can
not be challenged.
This is the model of which G00 merchants bought
$22,000,000 worth in 40 minutes on the day of its un
veiling in Detroit.
It wedged itself into the cluttered market in a man
ner that I have never seen approached.
The energy of this 8400 r. p. m. engine delivers 60
miles an hour—all the speed you dare use—without
■exacting a burnt-oilcring of wasteful fuel consumption.
. Chalmers Service does not begin when a car pauses
m front of the service station that bears the Chalmers
. on ®S r am. The principles of Chalmers Service dom
inated the designing and building of the 3400 r. p. m.
the moment the dream of it began glimmering in
me brains of its engineers.
» the return of prosperity to the South, I
~5 * ^ y° u to buy a car that delivers might at stag
ing C. o. D. rates.
•j®y faking every gallon of gas kick in with 18
of the smoothest going, it makes might wed
And the by-product of this extraordinary union is a
magnificent acceleration that is wholly foreign to the
car that is built for speed alone.
The surpassing smoothness of this throbless engine
that whirls at a velocity of 3400 revolutions per
minute is not an engineering accident.
This result was striven for by its builders, who
knew that the more explosions per minute, and the
greater the number of revolutions of the motor, the
lesser amount of heat is lost through the cooling jacket.
Heat is power. The small engine of this car leaves
a small area from which heat can be thrown away by
radiation, there is a very short cooling process between
explosions of gas, and you have a power plant that
wrings every ounce of energy from its fuel.
That is why this is the car that performs.
One minute with your foot on the accelerator, and
you'll know what I mean.
One performance—and 3400 will no longer be a
mere number to you. It will become the magic pass
word into an unknown, undreamed-of realm of travel.
With raw materials growing less plentiful, it
is good foresight to register your order now if
you can.
Price, $1050 Detroit
%
MfeMl
P. W. TpOWBpIDGE,
ANKLIN. .........LOUISIANA.
" Parkhouse Auto|Co.,
Phone Main 752 . 752 St. Charles St.,
New Orleans, La,
