.OOK OUT! LOOK HERE! VV M,ss YO ' MKN'
ACL, there i a reason. When your;
i J per suddenly stops before it should, there's a reason not a reasonable reaon, but a
rascally reason. We arc coinc to tell the reason in next week's Menace. WATCH TOR IT.
We wish every reader, subscriber, and friend of this paper to see the paper following this one.
It will tell you things you ought to know but perhaps have never thought of. 'NEXT
WEEK IS THE TIME. LOOK SHARP. -:- -:- -:- -:-
gj Cnq T fTsM Th, Number 233 14
TB5eMhKACE
X eWcra, ntlsssawl "fc?7""'?rjw"' AHI t. Itlw
COMPEL
tOME
T
FACE
SSUE
MOW!
tr B. a IXOwn. rnaMM fre Pre- Mm u.
Done tecy toiler lihrrt V of utterance, holding that every greet
lasue ebould be brought hefor tk br of reaeoe. Her tin I that
la tb. cracihl. of free diaraaaioa w B J th gnld of truth.
Doapotiom tkWf iMurk,ii ua.lev too rnti of king,
caipetot or rur, or Ik tiaia of a k, claim temporal
aoveretrnty, arc. is rrueh fre dtseuaaio aad divert publ attea
tio from th vital fcaau.
I
let)
X a conflict like tat prramt, to fuadameatal that it la
voire th rrry lift of free laetltuUoee, It la a3 Im
portant that tk erpoaiuoo be compelled la at piar
It tb vital principles at eteka, lastead of being per
antied to atifle fw dwcueaioa, oa I Ho ooa head, or to
becloud la laaue with ingcaiou. eubterfugea, Ho laeuea,
peraoaalitir, abutl epithet, bluater, or cry baby tactics.
Hutory impreaer a fart mors clearly thea that lb rapnaratalivea
ef derpotlam aad oppreeion, or lb uphold of a bad rati, whea
rn fronted by U0 broad demand of jotie, kumaa righte aad appeal
.i tw'i, lavariably seek to ea.le lb iaue by resorting to oa of, tb
following expedients: They either atrive lo eruh th opposition by lav
r the nnpkp.Tm.fnt of forrf, or tlicy rcaort to rennalittee, ebuMv
epithet, inunadov or liirk-vant side iwim.
Thi universal pret- of Ibe upholder of liicrarrhie and dea
rw.iun in the preen- t t fundamental trtitba and nf justice and kumaa
right older than our Oirinliaa riviliaatlnn.
Sorrtr, who UivUt lb nnl'l)! 4kt-o that (liviaa ruKur bo
f)'n siImsI, a fur ag, aaa drnouiwHsl tod rtmiirmncd on th pmrit that
bli tra-hiof wie roirupling Iho Bintal of lb Atbrr.'aa juulkn.
Jetui ind th Judtftn Hierarchy
Wka in (real Nataron aVmnrd Ik pomp aad lialim
rf a rlijpmii kkrarrky Ibat lrt algh unto (tod wiik tta lip, while
It bart vat far from Uira, npoln( ila k.Tpornay and fratono akil
ll, llinoolf, gaT tb world tho rVravta 'oa Ik Mount, Ik anhkt
nlnal rod known lo th a h Jujraa kirarrh), inlrl of
nrtiiig Him with free and oprn d'ariiaaion, did mkat r-prft'nlatiTM
of a ran that rfarra ant atiuid brforf Ik bar of enlightened reason
atwara do, tber prompt rjr dfmiiaeed tka (reat an-l ar-rrn aoul who
taught and lived tho Onldea Rulo, a a win bibhor aad a friend of
rut)liana and ainnera, that l, M a porana drinking piritoua liquor
and ronnnrting wiik atea aad women of Ion rhanuier and unaavorr
rofHitaUon; aad wkea lh attempt to deatror Cbiiat'a tntluenr failrxl,
the Judean hierarokr did prariarlr what th Roman t'atholie. hinrarehjr
but reatlr beoa doing ia thia onuotr in it effort to rrtiih tbiwe
who are defending th fundament,! demoerarjr of tbia eotntrj-.
The Jewiab biorarrhy Indaeed tk aeeular gtirornmrBt lo arret
and try Jeaua oa a trumped np aad falwt pretext, that i a prrtrit
which though rbaI1 Or terhnlraJlT tru Waa nttorly falee la airit,
or in th pouart wklobtk proteeutnra tiaed th charge; thita rriliiit
the art ion of tka representative of tk Roman Catholia bierarehv In
Anrira, wkea ia tk bop that through a groa and glaring ahu of
th oliarenitr (tattit tb aaeular goraraaient oould deatrny or crunk
the palrinti pre, thy would thnt b abl lo Tad meeting the ral
iu ia th mighty conflict of Bom vnma our f re democracy.
JEFFERSON'S DEFINITIONS AND AXIOMS OF FREE SOCIETY
"Rtason and fre Inquiry ar tha only afftctual acanta aralntt rror. Thty
ara the natural tmmlis of err or and of a rror only. Had not tha Roman government
permitted free Inquiry, Christianity could naver have been Introduced. Had not free In
quiry been Indulged at tha era of tha Reformation, tha corruption of Christianity could
not have been purged away. . It fa error alone that nee da tha aupport of govern
ment. Truth can atand by Itaelf. Subject opinion to coercion! whom will you make
your Inquisitor? Fallible men; men governed by bad passion, by private aa well aa pub
lic reaaone. . Difference of opinion la advantageous In religion. Tha several
aecta perform tha office of a censor morum over each other, la uniformity attainable?
Million of Innocent men, women and children, since tha Introduction of Christianity,
have been burnt, tortured, fined, Imprisoned; yet we have not advanced one Inch to
ward uniformity. What haa been the effect of coercion? To aupport roguery and
error all over the earth. . Reason and persuasion are the only practicable In
strument. To make way for these, free Inquiry must be indulged."
Abraham Lincoln characterized Jefferson's utterances as "The definitions and
axloma of free eociety." Tha author of the Declaration of Independence opposed every
attempt to gag, muzzle or restrict freedom of the prats, holding that tha people, "may
aefely be trusted to hear everything true and false and to form a correct Judgment
from them." .
TVcpotiMii and tan upholder of a cauae that frara fre diaruaaioa
and dare ant faro Ike bar of reaaoa, alw and ia alt place employ
th a me laiic, eilboe they eek lo obamr the Imio by abuae, raliunny
and offcaaiTo pereAnalttie, or thry atriv lo eruth, thmtigb law or
violence, Uiom whom they dare not meet ia the Intellectual arena,
Th Cut of Victor Hugo
When Napoleon III. whom Hnin lored to term th fajtkful ooa of
the rkitrra, wat preparing to betray and deattoy tan Franca Republi
tkat bad honored kirn, be aouglit lo diveive when be found b could But
aeditc YMr Hugo, but thn mt illu.tr ion F'enrkmaa of th nine
teentk ceatuty, at that timo one of the ealiag (tatcaraen ia tk gorra
rornt, ant only refuel lo betray democracy and fro Inttitutiona, llt
l4came at one the mnt owerful aad dreaded fon of lb arch neaiy
of frr demnerary. lie rhoerfully accepted exile rather tkaa be fabw
to lil-erty which did not prevent the minion of Napcdcoa ailing him
with nil maaner of almaive epithet. They could but meet hi terrible
arraignment of the Wtrayer of hi country -tho aain of dnmocracy
hi they kurlml tkmr thafl of dauder and aliuao iikb Ike groate.1 oet
and dramatit and one of the greatest Krrai k noveli.ta of tho nineteenth
century.
Later, alien the Human rhur.-li and her .Icuit alliea aoucht lo da
troy th popular auu atlarian Itool of Kraaro a the Ilomaa
hn-rarchy ia America Inday ar eet-king t di'atroy our frr arhrtnl tem,
Vktor Hugo apain licrame thn center fur the envenomed hat of re
act ionarica aad especially of the Itotntn kiertrt'ky boraua of hit turn
lug on thn iwarvhllabt of truth on the Italy and th Hp in of the tim
when h wrol, and showing the blighting effect tt JUmaa Cat hoi ie
cl.Mitloa wher th Unaaa church wt, la abanlut eoattol of Ibe
lutiua of tke aalioa.
(tin. Kit. la IM. Iiwl wa tiwtm a VU'mr Hate', imlinmit ( f.tW
tc Mtur.tUii, a. H t. MM1Miia wtitrb ever? Aie.n .In.m4 r4 at a lim.
wliaa li.ai. t. mI., I. wilimlo. vur iWt4. iimmi ( Int m kami. )
It i inteeeeting to rail to mind tha fact tkat ia apil of tha
ani'hemaa of rburrh and of the dopitie government, tha great Fienrh
aaaa It Ted aot only to ana the French Kepulilte re eatallikl but ta
brrnm th i lu and kero of the I'rem k natina. Whea k died all
Franc went into mourning and hi. fuaeral wa. th large.! ia th
h'.t rr i f pari, with th ingle exception of that of Napolena tionaparta
when hi remaina wer brought from HU Halana.
ITH
Jtfftrton and Foci of Democracy
t hen Thonuta Jrffctwin aeiit a thrill of terror through erery tkron
and de.potic k.riihv of tlie Old World by writing th lorrUoa
of Independence and by hia other great utterance ia behalf of freedom,
jtitic and npular anveretgnty, anil, later, wkea h boldly atood for
Ike people agint all form of Woe rate and fpcciol frtcilr , how wa
hi aphmdid tatevnihahip and immortal principle and aitotna of free
aociety received by tho eaeniie of th larger liberty and of human
nghuf Ia th aaat way deapotitm and th upholding af uajuat aad
Irrattoaal ayatowta alway meat tb ult.raa. af kaimortal trutha, wkea
taey ar al la a pocllloa to punlh br tk hemlock, th r,wa or eille.
J They j-oured upon thia father of Mvdeia Democracy, and fore-
mnet rtatearaaa af hi titan, a torrent of abuae, alaader, calumny aad
nilareprraentatioa ttai aa aeumm oa quueu ia nietory. m rery
way poMild they trieil to mk him appear tnfamoua aad Uua dcitroy
tka Imperial away over th mind of lb natina af tha great truth
ha had Muaciatod. Th pla, howvr, wrra aot doceirad, tk poinui
abaft felt art af Ibetr awh aaj Jrffarana', idea Km Vwaiat4 tb
ywang rapablie, atakiag H lh lapiratta f anh'i pft" aitbM
aad lb greaieat asvral warld awer la lb faatdy f atiaa.
Abraham Liarol auffrl a did Jfferoa. From th day af
kt. BtMnlaaiioa till tb day of ha aeaawinatiua, at lalenala, h waa
rldeUl, abl, alaadarad a a. I atad Ik butt af every maa f
euaea jeat and brutal r art oca, and to !adef aad calumny wer added
cruel tauau af la- k f arkaoliag aad culture, aa 1 etc a hli paraaa wa
mad tb abjart of ridieul aad roatempl by tbwa ua-orthy t U km
akuea.
Now tkaa ar arely typical hut eric eimjlc illiurtraliag tb way
tba wk dar aot fan tk high deanaad af awakeatj juatio, r th
uaiavea af vital truth Invariably ek I ! tb bau. AJwava
whea poetilU h eaamy It rruahed by law, or alaul or latinjilated by
violaana, but failing la th a, perannalitie. bie, epithH aad attempt
ta aunatltuta other !ne, mark th eampaiga of thnee who eppoa Ik
larger truth, tha freer tat and th jutr deman l of a Itaaelag
ci tl tat ion.
Ooropol Horn to Taco Vital Iuuai
Hear w :i.e Amerwaa patriot not to permit lh enemie of our
fre inatUutiori. t., ade tka real iaue. Ta.-t nay I mink la l
Knaaaa (atkolio religion that i iexignant In tuu, lit leal M ! owe
enaceva tm lu.if $ U dc avul lalrfack IVi ) lrlie f la
ntut tt any W.fCifly or a'rerlla na He frtnt fnmMptrt f .e
tirmnrrtrv and fac rnri for pr,,t,cUn and tieomMin vac re
i$tiuto4, but ' ftffitom of ('"., frr 'I d or la
drmJIf pecif, a they ar to lav through the itanie tiily of political
Mnmaaiam; raea le mcl aplr.diif l hberal ,.(rm of pvfultr rwi
(tea ac iwil koi ntr lo. 14 6 wt'rf, a it 1 by th Roma
hierarchy t aaca feeialc mtlemyt, cin avarf. In puh la toma
CxlKnha crc In Ike front ta ennnci fma a 'ale Jur ad ofirtat
poiftpmtnl, and eapecially when a .tcniatic campmgn ia llng puabed
in nalinn, dat and city government by tha Roman church lo ccui
phln 'mwinM for eWarana tnf(MM, and thu deal a deadly
Idow at our constitutional pmtiaio that ami to errure abulut dlvorc
af church aa l tat aad uniform treatment for all faith and creed
aca the rcefr.f nf.ifnc of l KniMa 1'a'an kirrrircay, through U
to a I Meril rei7u poltticot Imia, t mrmdig mhriitjmrnl f '
dom cf relitfwm ticaoa, and when Knight of Cnlumlxi ta eoagfe
ara puhiag meawre favoring thia attempt to liample underfoot ur
cnnititulional fuaraatec, and fiimlly nca le nral acrrtfnrt cf Ik
(hi pal oirri0 a Ike F6er re erUnit to lfd la hrrMrrl
form nf gnrernatcnt o J I w'Miile for oar drmoortu tritU hy juea,
tha owloerlK nafyfiva ftmrr that ia .'V dear lo pop af Mc,
rfr.v rK itorit has htkvck hr iriKJtr r.tror nr
am tun a noKTiir or tmk sjluk to uallt to tbk vk
FH.V5X or lurrtit.yp deuuckm y asp courtL tsosk
ITBO ARK rt'. H'AttlSa OS TH TITAL riATtltS OF OU
fKKK fVoi Ajr.vvrvr to rjcK tiik isti t.
Wo who Mievo in lhe great prlnciplna t our fre democracy
aliiih ar being aaaile ahoubl comel every avta wh.i ak for our
fiani-hlto lo pledg hlmaelf lo rewlutely romUat all theee attampta af
political RnmanUin lo adnc th infanioua papal ayatrm againat which
modera democracy waa aud ia a mighty protest.
SHOW
POIETO
FAI
I8 TOO
OH JililllEsll
The movomctit in tlefonoo of free
fntvli and I ho public nchooln i to
day far itMngor in the jrrt city of
t'hii'apo than vr. Nothing has
rttntrihutctl tnoro to Uiat desirable
rni than the dingrmrful awaulU
VHrptdratexl tijajn poaooablo niect
inga by mobs of priet-lod papist.
When Tin Men Act tell its remU
rra that the so-called ISomau Cath-olii-
tliimh in nothing more or leu
than a great world-wide political
eoiwpirapy operating under the
truise of roligion, a large number of
Imiient and well-meaning people are
tmablc to believe it Being honest
thoiinelve, they can't conceive of
n aaored a thing aa religion being
prontituted to eo ignoble a purpose.
But, when they e a prieet-led
mob of papiuli breaking into hall
where Peaceable aMembliea (or pa
triotic purpoaea are being quietly
lield ; and alien they hear the blood
t imlling demands of these frenzied
fanatic for the life of patriotic
caker; they then begin to under
stand the meaning of the ro-nnage
which Thi Mexack haa been try
ing for year to deliver to" th.e Amer
iia.n people.
Such haa been the effect in Chi
cago. ThouMnda of Chicago'a citi
ena, formerly indifferent to all in
dictmcnta of popery, haTe had the
troth forced upon them by the de
liberate and carefully planned acta
of the papists and their prelate.
Our charge are proved by the overt
act of our enemy.
In a former Mcvack the details
of the raid on Dr. Slattery's firrt
Chicago meeting were given. Since
then every obetacle Rome could tle
via ha been employed to break tip
the aeriea of lecture. Some of
these achemea were puveful; but.
as a result. Dr. Slattery got a larger
hearing in Chicago than he likely
wonld have received bad tlie stapid
(''pes of equally stupid papal agents
Vhaved themselve.
The .VaomY Chronicler, a Cbi-
publication, prta tbe follow
ing aiwunt of tho rioters, w ith edi
torial comment thereou in its insue
of Manh 11:
Wndoeadsy evening, March 1, a crowd
of Komaa (.'atholie hoodlum hurbxl
tone throu(h th windnwa of Hcv. K.
Keen Krau'a home, MM South Omen
atreet. It waa on of th moat cowardly
and uncalled for crime over perpetrated
in Chicago, Th act followed a riot al
Boulevard Maeonle hall, .VHh and Hal
ated street, which wa atarted by a
prieat, Bro. Ryaa ia (Srand Chaplain of
tb tirand Lolgo of Muaa aad tor
of th Uarflcld Boulevard Freabyterlan
church. At th reipjeat of The Xoaonu
CArwnWer( he wrote the following article
for publication:
"Ia aoiwer to your reipieat that I
giv yon th particular of the raid oa
my horn Weiineaday evening, etarrh 1,
1 submit lh following atateuientt
"la company with a friend I left Chi
cago Wednesday morning, March I, for
m. Lonis, to attend the diitrb-t arhool
of inatrurtioa at Belleville. Mr friend
and I were at Belleville, 111, th night
of the raid. Neither of u knew any
thing about th lecture to be give at the
Maanaie Temple, SJUi and Untried
at recta, by- Mr. Slattery until thn morn
ing w wer leaving tk city for 8t.
Ixvala. My friend stated lo me that the
lortura waa ta be given and that he had
beea warned not to attead by a deter tire
froaa tb Knglewood police station. Thai
waa tha trat either of a knew aliout it.
"Wodaeaday aight, March 1, bciug
p raver atewtiag, a few of my aighbors
and friaada wer gathered ia my hnaue
for prayer and oavotioa. Taey ware
aitting ia tka front parlor liotaalag to
aa expoeitioa of th acriptnre by aaa of
tk alder of ear church. None of them
know aaything about the 81attery hartur
being givaa ia th Maaoaie Temple two
blnck away, aad son of my members or
officer had anything to do with th giv
lag of tb Uctur.
"At Si 3.1 p, nx, the nam hoar that
lh riot started at SSth aad Halsted
atreeta. tb froat wiadow of my bom
aud.iealy eraaaed ia. 8ton wrlgkiag
tkre to four ponad eared ia the aria
dowa aad ahowerad glaa all over any
wife, tha ehlldrwa aad my xYiaads, Mra.
Mrt'omb, aa aid lady, wa atrark la tb
cheat by oa of th atone. Mra. Jordaa
wa at ruck aa th shoulder aad say litU
girl, 4 year of age, sacaped having her
braia dahed ant by a foar-poaad atoa
that miaaad hc aaly a few iarhe.
' Terror arrickaa. ar 1 funltr am.t
friaada took rafuga U U hitch, whOaj
Chicago Papists Reveal the True Spirit of Popery by a Week of Rioting
and Murderous Assault Upon Patriotic Speakers and Citizens Peace
ably Assembled Every Means, from Threats and Boycotting to
Attempted Murder, Used in Effort to Break Up Patriotic Lectures
WORIC
my wifa trlepbuucd the Englewood r-U-lion.
"After a delay of I wo hours and
After a minute officer arrived, aad after
Iteteaing to th storiea of my wife and
fitobUa pred their regret aad lowed
tbemacbea out.
"t'p to the prrweat time, Moailar,
March 8, there hav beaa ao arreat. It
ia th eooaenu of opinion among well
iafornid opl ia tbia diatrtct that the
rad on my koro an.l th riot at the
Maaoaio Tempi waa Ik work of Kraak
Kaegaa'a "ColU," young hoodlum
Imaded into aom kiad of a elub or
atkletie aaaneiatioa, with room at 82nd
and llalausl atreata, and mi p ported by
Frank Kaegaa, former couuvjr ronmiia
siouer, aad aow holding aom kind of a
political job ia tk rouuty bulldiiag. Hae
gaa is tk fellow that kept tb county
board in aa uproar duriag th admiai
t rat ion of A. A. MrCormh-k aad'wkn
uaed to throw book acrona tka bo.nl
room at hia Krpubliraa aatagoaiata. The
spirit af Kaegaa ia th apirit of hi
"Cohs." 1 prranaally hold Raegaa
Colt reaoalbl for th dnatructios of
my homa."
fader dat af March t, W. I. Bigalow,
State Uuardiaa of tk Ouar-tiana of Lib
arty, furaiakeU thia statement for pub
licatioa t
"Th Uuardiana of liberty were hold
lag the 8 r of a aeriea of bactare by
Dr. Joseph Hlatlrry, ef Boatoa, Mm!,
lart night, at Boulevard Maaoaie hall,
(Uth and Halated street, whea wa wer at
tacked aad eereral af oar member,
brutally amaulted by a thoroughly or
gaalaed mob ef hoodlum led by a Ko
maa Catbolie prieat.
"la aerordaac with our policy of reg
nUting opeakera, tk talk waa oaly ia
defect of the principle af fre apeerk,
fre pre aad tk arpareUoa ef church
and state. No religious dNirtriaea wer
diaru.fd. W ar a aati-Cathoba order
aad permit ao speaker to attach aay re
ligioa. "About tea minute, before th mart
lag started a crowd af SO ywuavg fetWw
rwabed our door maa ta a body aad a
tared tha . hall wit boat paying. Oar 6V
ela artproacbed Iheaa aad told tbeai
Uara waa aa admlaaioaj iw aad ta go to
tb window and bn tick eta. Thia they
rfurd to do and eij cf tb ring loader
reached ia his back poofcet aa If to draw
a gun. A policoaiaa waa calmd aad put
the crowd out.
"About afteea minutes aAT Ir.
Mlattery aiated spoaking a dreakea
young fellow Interrupted aad tha poitn
put him out after a hard straggle. This
atartod lh maia troubl. At this tin
sbonl ten young fellow who boaated f
being Kaiiiht ef (Vdumbue attached en
of onr atat officer aad beat hum badly.
"Repealed effort wer mad ta get
the police to put out aad keep out lh
ringleader, but they ah irked their duty
ahamefully, aad would aot atay W tk
hall to prearrv orawr. One efllner. No.
1S, opealy Ihreateaed eir hsadora, la
stead of th hoodlums who attacked u.
He also aided tha rioters by shouting
airainrt lh speaker. Three plain clothe
me aleo atood by and did avthiag to
preaarva order.
"Juat before the meeting cloeed a
riot rail waa seat ia and the lieuteaaal
of police with a fore of mea arrived oa
the see. This, hnwarer, did not dlef
the crowd wna by thl time had sfvread
out to cover aA poShai brndlag from tk
aetghborhood. .
"8treet car wer toppod, trolley
tor dowa, aad ear member dragged 00
aad bealca. Whim tarrying out their at
tack oa our mem ties thr shoaled 'Ws
will teach vwu Maaoa aot to hobl thee
naeeUnga.' Thi may csplala tb siagvmi
fact that th gwatleeaea who were
brutally beatoa ara promineat Maaoaa,
all beisg elacera, or past officer, ef Chi
cago kvtjraa, a weTl a being atat om
eials of ur order.
"Whea the priaat waa aikcd why his
penpl attached a peaceful aweuag, b
aid, 'Thia ia a tthulki rlty aad yoa
hav ao right to hold such aMetiags
knr.' "
A aumber ef r witneasee I Ibe riot
ing were interviewed by a repreaeatatir
Of Th rheewerUr. Their staJaaneata
agra oa the following facta: Firat, thai
juat prior ta the atartiag ef th. tght
a maa walked down tb auto, laterrapt-
Ing the saoetlag, ualU b waa clus to
th pbaforat. K Una palWd aff a neck
scarf aad cls4 th fast that h was
a Roaaaa Catholi priest. II waved tb
oaf aa a sigaal aad tk flgki bngsa.
Tk hoodlum who had fimed their way
lata tha hall wer srtea. aot boy, aoarlr
all f whom wore Kaigbta of Onluanbu
buttoas. They beat aad kicked mea aad
woman alike astil tk hall waa olearaj
asd whoa the nafortuaat paaaoful cltl
aeaa rackd tka street tkey were ther
atet br a howling mob, who coatiaoed to
beat thorn. P treat car trailer wer tor
dowa aad mea aad womea dragged from
the ears aad badly beatea. It waa on
of tb moat digraceful aad unlawful
crime aver committed Is th site af Chi
cago. Had the Mliceaiea la tha hall,
aad taea who arrived aa the ere later,
eierciaed eve a part ef their power,
they could haws diepoaad of tha mob of
sowardly hoodlums. Me far as know,
ealy one arreat waa mad. Dcaptt th
fact that a laif detaebmeat af poltee
wer o hand under th eoramaad af
Lieut. Earight, a asmbar of tha police
men participated ta tb not. A pobca
mea. b the nam ef Rooaev marched
dewa the aisle, disturbing the meeting,
aad mad tkraetealaf remarks ta tb
peakere, wklbi thrs stood by aad
laughed wkim tk mob beat up their
lnnoceat vietlma
A Bother meat lag waa beld at th
Oread Crosaiag Maaoaio Taaapbs, Moa
day evening, March C. Th policemen
la the hall did tbair duty, aad taoaw out
side did all they coo Id lo qU tb mob,
hat tb mob seemed determined to mur
der Dr. Mattery. They wamt to the
gang wher Dr. flattery car was sta
ttoned, aad at the point af revolvers
made hia chauffeur eoaaeat ta atop th
BMV-hiae whea he reached th ssraar ef
TUt street aad Cottage Orv aveau.
But whea he reached Ibe enraoc with Dr.
Hlattevv, Vis wife aad other la the sna
ehiua, a put oa full eped in aa effort
ta get away. flvrl kota were tred
sd aa aaly miaaed tke rkauffeurw head
by aa rack. Tkat taey wer boat aa
murder was ovideat.
ladigwaliea aatoag Maanaa are great
duriag tb met week whea it were.
kaowa that a crowd of Romaa Catholic
hoed hi me bad hurled large atoaaa through
tb froat wiadow ef Oread Cweplein
Kjaa'a homo, aadajigariag tha lreaa at
the member of his family aad thnee
devout Chrinliene who kx'ned to bo in
attendance at prayer meeting at the
time.
The Grand CkaplaJa was out of the
city, but fnyer meeting wss being held
at hi horn. Tb attack was mad fol
lowing a riot atarted ssd directed by a
Komaa t at hoi prieat at a hall a hort
dintanc away aad was aa doubt a part
ef aa organised eault ea a Urge aum
ber ef law-abiding aad reapeoted citisena,
many ef whom ar Maaoaa.
It see aui almoet lacredible that a mob
ef mea ao cowardly and so utterly de
praved could b congregated togetker ia
Uis enlightened age. To tkiak of kumaa
beings oalliag Ihemaalve mea aad lie
llevnr la a tariatiaa religion delibirate
ly hurling huge stone through tb win
dows af a home where religious devottoa
are being conducted raa hardly b be
lieved. Vet It ia aa indiiputabl fart.
Agala the hums btutes beat mn
asd womea, old aad young, with bra
knuckles aad other deadly weapoas, aad
duriag their murderous amaulta they
kept veiling, "Well tkow you Maaons
tkat you can't hold meeting la this
neighborhood," asd agala, "Get that
fellow with a Maaoats buttoa."
Theee hoodlum had become laeenaorLj
or, at leaet, their prieatly leader had bo
eome aager3, beraua aa i prleet waa
the chief speaker at a meeting, hia sub
ject baiag, ' ' I re r peach, rree rreaa and
Kliglou. Liberty."
Tha attack ea Pro. Rraaa home was
evldeatly a part f a well matured plea
to aot nly beat np thoa who attended
th meeting, but alee Rv. Kyaa aad hi
family. I'oUesmo asaigaed lo duty at
the meeting ar (aid to hav smilingly
spproved ef tk brutal aaaaulta, and oae,
Booaey, by name, to said to bar partici
pated ia startiag tb riot.
A tare aumber af policemen wer
prteaat, yet thev uoceedM la ataking bu
ess arrawt. Whyf If theee polieeenea
bed aot appeavwil of the eowantly am'
murderoaa acta ef the member of the
mob, they could bar take doaeaa of
them to jail.
The queetioa aow arises, Whst ia tb
chief of polio goiag to do with theee
policemen They ahoutd be l pel led from
the fore for laenVleacy aad aegtoc ef
duty. I a fact, that would be a very mild
puaiahment
Th polie haow th eoward who
knrM atone through Br. Kyaa 'a win
dow. Will they dar arreat thecal
Is It poeaibr that these Roma Cath
oli hoodlum ara t ha pera&Ktod aa take
th law lata their awa head aad throttle
tha rifht at fre apeerat
Will Maaons snbnvlt qu lefty to tha out
race perjietratod duriag tb bast weekt
Are tb publl officiate ef Chicago tea
cowardly to giv sitiaen protection
again! thug and murdorere almpl be
rauaa Iheae criminals ar barkd by a
religious sectf
Dr. Hlattery had a right to War th
Romaa Catholia church. Maaons and
other cltiien had a right to attead a
mealing to listen to a dievumlva of tho
fuudanieutal principle of the govern
ment ef the Tutted Htates. To deny thl
right will ran serious troubl aad th"
Roman it might aa waU get a clear un
derstanding of ths situatioa at tka out
set. Mssoas demand the rht to peaeaably
assemble wlthbut tb eoasent of tl
bihop, arckhi.hop or aay ether Roman
Catbolie dignitary. Taey demand that
brute force l dcatroved, aad fre speech
b restored la Ibis itj.
An eager Investigator wishea to know
whether aa editor of Tat Msvxci has
beea indicted for tlaadorlag tha gororu
men! 1 and whether such perena com
mlttad suicide because ef said tariirt.
meat. How the silly pape-pushed stories da
persist. No editor of Tai Mtari was
ever Indicted for laadsriag aay gorore"
merit, aad It editor, or em prove, oS
owner of Tar Mix in aver committed
suicide. This la but aaa of a long aerie
of lies carefully circulated by our split
toagvied adversaries,
A queetioa aad aaawer ta tb f'b. 14
Jersey JawrwaJ, of Jeraey City, X. J., re.
veala the latoreatiag feat that tke Klk.'
nubhoaee, the Maanaie Tempi, tha CVI I
t'ellowa Hall, and similar fraternal aad
beaevnleat laatitutioas of Jeraey City ai
all taaed; but Ibat the Catholic tVi
and th Pt. TVtar Club, ara both aswmpt
froai tasatioa beraua they ar claimed
aa church propeniea by ake papal syatosa.
Rather ale for popery. F.kt
"Th decent, lihertv having ei tinea of
Chicago ought to laaiat thu Mr. 8att
barr'a larturea be giv ia th iargeat
auditorial ia tke cuty, evea If th stat
militia had to b called ant t praaerva
order aad guarantee the right of fre
speech. Th Uuardiene of Uberry aboald
aot let th matter dnvp, bat aboald sea
that lh gallty nvtie ar brought ta
feel the teoa bead of th law."-! Wag
free MethaMrt.
Th waw ambasaalo' froaa tb Ual4
Ptatea to Chile a papiat. Joeeph "bea
i the gantlemsa's aaaast Via eeaiOearo,
P-aimamr, lad.) aad a wa smiaated be
remdm Wtfeea aa Marah a. Th papist,
arass is lsae4i aea joal
