The St. Joseph Observer
VOLUME IX.
ST. JOM.IMI, MISSOURI, SATURDAY, PRIL 1. 1016
NL'MHER 20
P-s.
I
I
.WILSON WITHDRAWS
Teels Hit Health Will Not Stand
the Strain of a Stren.
uous Campaign
Much to the regret of his thousands
of friends in tho state, and especially
those of northwest Missouri, where he
Is best known and admired, Francis
M. Wilson of Platte county, who Is
now United States district attorney
for the Western district of Missouri,
has withdrawn from the race for the
Democratic nomination for governor,
t,in .. .. -
of this great state.
The announcement comes from Kan-1
sas City, which is Mr. Wilson's head -
quarters, and states that the condition
, , it. n . i. i,i i . . t. -
of Mr. Wilson's health is not such as)
to enable him to make the trying and
vigorous campaign which will be re-
quired I
' ,,. , .... . . ,, .
Mr. Wilson's withdrawal Is a blow
to hlB friends in this section, but they
Will all be found ready to take him up
again should he decide to try for It
..... ,
four years from now. It is the general
feeling here now that Wilson has
stepped aside that his strength will go
o Con Roach.
t
THE HOMESICK MISSOURIAN
I am -wearying for my prairies
Where the little rivers run,
All fringed with trees and blossoms
That half keep out the sun;
While between He fields and orchards
And pastures, too, galore,
And barns and goodly houses
With children at the door.
'TIs my own, my dear Missouri,
The land of golden corn,
The sweetest land the wind blows o'er,
The land where I was born.
I long to see the clover
Beleagured by the bees,
Far sweeter than the honey
Its fragrance on the breeze.
I want my grassy orchards
Where the big red apples glow
On boughs bent down ln garlands
Eve tried them long ago
Now they grow but In Missouri,
The land of fruit and corn,
The sweetest land the wind blows o'er,
The land where I was born.
I want to -watch tbgjjazels
Shake down their winter store.
And the walnuts and tie shellbarks
On the earth's leaf-spangled floor.
Life's fullness and life's richness
I can find no other where;
O, my own, my dear Missouri,
I am longing to be there,
There In my own Missouri,
With its hazelnuts and corn,
The sweetest land the wind blows o'er,
The land where I was born.
And I want my mighty river,
To which its "cricks" all run,
Where the brant are flying over
And the fish leap in the sun;
And my lakes that dimple near it
And the sedge where plovers call
And tho lilies where the ducks hide
Dear Lord, I want them all
That belong to dear Missouri,
Land of game and fruit and corn.
The sweetest land the wind blows o'er,
The land where I was born.
Mary Alicia Owen.
TO ELECT OFFICERS
.
v ..
Trt3 Places for Which Candidates Will
Be Chosen at the August
Pr,rnry
There are so many people who for-
get what is to bo voted for In Mis-
sourl at the primary to be held Aug. 1, i
to select candidates for the general I
election, Nov. 7, that the complete llsti
is hereby appended with the added
qualification that, while all parties
will select candidates at this primary,
tho Democrats will do the electing tit
the polls Nov. 7.
Here is the list;
Federal offices President, vice - presl -
dent, U. S. senator, 1C congressmen
State offices Governor, lieutenant-!.
governor, secretary of state, state au
ditor, state treasurer, attorney-general,
1 judge of supreme court, long term;
1 judge of supreme court, short term.
District offices 1 Judge St. Louis
Court of Appeals, 1 Judge Kansas City,
Court of Appeals, 1 Judge Springfield i
Court of Appeals, 40 Judges of tho
circuit court, 4 judges of the criminal
5rt, 1 judge of the Capo Girardeau
Court of Common Picas, 17 stato sen
ators. County officers 142 members of the
house of representatives, 2 associate
Judges of tho county court, prosecut'
lng attorney, sheriff, county assessor,
county treasurer, coroner, public ad
ministrator, surveyor, constables and
Justlcea of tho peace, party comrrilt-tees.
Last Cowardly Resort of Marshall Crowd
Failing by all Other Means to Injure Reilly, They Now Stoop
to Character Assassins Methods and Despicable
Slander to Defeat Him.
, .
Tne statement contained In the Ga.
zeUe thjs morn)no that , d tn a pub.
nc addres that I roomed with a negro
while In college is absolutely false. I
made no such statement. It would not
have been true If I had made It.
Wne , WM ln co,ege , roomed the
first two years with John Farwcll, the
son of a hotel keeper of Berlin, New
Hampshire, and the last two years
with my brother. It Is true there were
a few eflro studentt ,n the coefle
attended. There Is not a northern or
eastern university, college or academy
that ,d not admit negro students,
and I had no choice In the matter. I
had t0 aceept thla eondtloh or remain
away from school. However, the state-
ment that I have at any time asso-
e'ated with negroes as social equals Is
aovoiuiciy iivc.
Very respectfully,
BARNEY REILLY.
The foregoing denial should enlight-
,en the Democrats of this community
as to the desperate means the Repub
lican newspapers aro willing to adopt
to defeat the nominee of the Demo-
cratlc party
Think of a Republican
paper trying to hang tne doctrine of
social eouallty on to a Democrat! It
is Satan reproving sin. The Gazette
would never have had a party but for
Its party's advocacy of that doctrine.
Now to attempt to create prejudice
against a Democrat on account of its
own basic principle and to do which
it will have to repudiate the issue out
of which its own party was born
comes with dreadfully bad grace. Let
no Democrat be deceived by this Re
publican lie.
FAITHFUL UNTO DEATH
The Roman sentinel who refused to
take refuge in flight, and died at his
post at the gates of Pompeii when
that ancient city was destroyed by
the eruption of Mount Vesuvius, Is not
the only Inspiring example of heroic
devotion to duty.
St. Joseph has its Roman sentinel
who dally, weather permitting, has
stood guard over the city cemetery
and has refused to flee during two
long years. We have In mind William
Shuder, guard at the city cemetery. It
would be difficult to find another such
faithful servant for the small stipend
of $100 per month, paid to this brave
sentinel by the Marshall administra
tion, and it would probably have been
impossible to secure his services were
It not for the fact that his brother,
Jolin Shuder, is chairman of the Re
publican city committee, and the fam
ily has therefore consecrated the
lives of Its members to the work of
safeguarding the lntejests of the citi
zens of St. Joseph, dead or alive.
Only once during this long vigil of
two years has it been said of Guard
Shuder that he faltered, and that was
last Hallowe'en night, when some
mean Democrats who live in that
neighborhood appeared at the city
cemetery ln long white sheets. But
be it said to his credit that even then
ho retreated In good order with his
laco to tne jnvauers anu iub iniuern
. .- rnri.tn n,,r held ln
' fr(mt of h,m t0 ward off attack.
I Furthermore, he was on duty again
the following day, and then and there
verified the count of tho dead to see
that none of them had escaped before
resurrection day.
No other administration has been
ablo t0 fln(j anyone willing to hold this
dangerous position for the small sum
of j100 per month. In fact, no other
administration has even had the nerve
j t0 create such a dangerous position,
j ad if re-elected, Mayor Marshall will
I probably be unable to retain the serv
! Ices of Guard Shuder unless he fur-
nlshed him at least one assistant.
WELFARE BOARD VS. CITY
COUNCIL
"Wo point with pride," as the saying
Is, to the fact that both Democratic
candidates for tho city council can at
least boast of an accomplishment to
which the two Republican candidates,
Ernest Lindsay and Jack Duncan, can
lay no claim.
Roth of the Democratic candidates
are at least capable of earning a liv
ing unassisted, and everybody In town
knows that this cannot be said of
ErnlcJ-lndsay and Jack Duncan,
We concede that Ernie and Jack aro
nice young fellows and that It is no
crime to reach tho age of forty with
out having done a day's work, mental
or physical; for If one inherits money
It is one's own business, and further-
more. Is a complete defense against
nny charge of vagrancy and a safe
guard against prying meddlesome Wel
fare board agents gathering statistics
about helpless and Indigent people.
However, admitting all of the rights
of Ernie and Jack in the premises,
it does seem to us that It would be
safer to entrust the management of
the affairs of a "city worth while" to
two men who are capable of earning
a living. What do you Uilnk about it,
Mr. Voter?
PARK CONCERTS
That calliope automobile which
plays "Oh, Promise Me," "In the Ooou
Old Summer Time," and other senti
mental tunes up and down Felix street
with a Marshall banner, is the same
automobile that Cap. Getchell got $-u
a month for the use of, ln riding
around visiting the various packs,
while on a salary as "vice-president
and general manager of parks," last
summer.
It is said that the captain has been
THE PEOPLE'S CANDIDATE BARNEY REILLY
promised an encore when the park
season opens, and Cap. and his cal
liope aro being counted upon to fur
nish a few park concerts this sum
mer, provided he can get a card In
the Musicians' union.
However, of course, all of this Is'
also conditioned upon an encore from
the people to Marshall and the boys
down at the city hall.
THOSE CITY TOOLS
The city of St. Joseph has about
$75 worth of street tools ln a store
room up near the work house, and
Mayor Marshall's administration Is
paying a Republican politician, Wil
liam Bettis, ex-candidate for the office
of sheriff and ex-deputy U. S. marshal,
the sum of $100 per month for his
services in guarding them.
Of course, a 76-cent padlock would' ionization. I beg leave to assure you
do the work Just as well, but the pad-ltnat : have at aU tlmes had ,n nllnd
wv wmiMn't hn mnoh imn,i n9 vn.a business administration If the peo-
.w.. .. W.H.. v -- ......... cww.. ., ,W.W,
getter and Is out of the question.
Nevertheless, we have a plan to
submit to Mayor Marshall, which we
think would both deliver more votes
than Ileitis can swing and would save
the city of St. Joseph tho suug sum
of $25 per month.
Our plan Is this: Pick out two or
(hree deserving young colored men
each month, and give them the priv
ilege of stealing the city tools, and
then buy a new set each month at a
cost of $75.
Thus a nico block of good workers
and otes would be secured and the
city would be saved the snug sum of
$25 a month. It is hoped the mayor
will give this plan his serious consid
eration, as heS is said to be always
willing to listen to suggestions,
REILLY'S REPLY TO COMMERCE
CLUB
St. Joseph, Mo., March 30, 191G.
Mr. E. L. Platt,
President of Commerce Club,
St. Joseph, Mo.
Dear Sir: Answering the questions
of the Commerce club as presented
to mo on Wednesday evening, March
30, 1916, permit me to say as follow,:
Q. If elected mayor will you Institute
the following reform at the city hall7
1. Installing a modern city account
ing system, including
(a) Record or all liabilities in
curred, as well as those paid.
A. Yes.
(b) Record of all revenues due, as
well as those collected.
A. Yes.
(c) Cost accounting ln department
of public works and whatever neces
sary. A. Yes.
(d)' A detailed budget system of
standard type.
A. Yes.
(e) An annual audit of city ac
counts.
A. Yes.
(f) Publication of a monthly sum
mary of conditions of city finances,
showing operation of current year
separately
A. Yes.
2. Immediate and impartial collec
tion of all moneys duo because of fail
ure of contractors or bondsmen to
make pavement repairs as guaranteed,
A. Yes.
3. The employment of a trained pub
lic health executive acting under the
board of health.
A. Yes.
4. The enactment and enforcement
of a modern milk and food ordinance.
A. Yes.
Further answering your worthy or-
pie of St. Josoph see fit 1o honor me
with the office of mayor.
I have always thought that there
should be a thoiough audit of the
books at the city hall by expert ac
countants who are not office holders
and who are not office seekers. Any
up-todate bank or business bouse
takos buch precautions at frequent in
tervals, and I do not think that such
an impartial and thorough audit has
been made at the city hall ln years,
which negligence has in tho past given
rise to startling defalcations and pub
lic scandals.
Rolatlvo to the matter of public
health, if the people of St. Josepn
eltfct me to this office, I would cer
tainly feel that I had been untrue to
tho trust roposed In me by them if I
BLs&m lira
did
not exercise every vigilance In
the matter of sanitation and inspec
tion to safeguard the health of my
fellow citizens and of their families.
In conclusion permit me to add that al.dF,p"tyJ suryeyorshlp In Boston Just
i . -i.. u ti . .v. . i. ii abolished and promote my brother, or
I not only believe that it Is a plain you can ,ncrea'se hIg 8a,ry to
duty to properly account to the people day, which is perfectly satisfactory,
for the expenditure of public funds, My conduct as a delegate to the na
but I also believe that upon the mayor tlonal convention will be governed by
f m.i, ni, ,,vk.o. ,, ,i,v- . .., the treatment accorded him. Wire at
that public moneys, which partake of
u.e uure biuuk iuuus iu.Ceu un-j Do you realize that your telegram
der his control by the taxpayers, are 0f the 5th instant places you in a very
expended with economy, and to see awkward position? You practically
that the city secures the maximum ot ask me t0 DrIe you to govern your
results and efficiency therefrom. SnJin 1," t0 thl na"onal
ii.i.i. ... . i t t ....... (convention by giving your brother a
With this ln mind I would institute position as deputy surveyor of Boston,
many reforms at the city hall not cov-J which has been abolished because it is
ered by your questions, and which I unnecessary, or to increase his salary
do not presume It Is your intention ,t0 6 Per daf- ,Your offense Is a seri
.,...,.. , .., lous one and deserves to be treated
that I should dwell upon In this an.jwlth the contempt t accord it. i shan
swer. However, I may mention as one not prostitute the public service you
of the most Important to the taxpay-' propose, and you can act as you please
ers of the city, the proper inspection at the national convention.
of public works. Under any adminis-
tration that I am a part of I guaran- FROWNED ON IT
tee that there will never be a repeti-l
tlon of such frauds as were perpe- State Public Utilities Commission Re-
trated upon the people in the South1 fuses to Allow Winner to Buy
Twelfth street paving contracts, and I the Gower Branch
shall certainly see that a board of.
public works Is appointed that will It had been supposed for some time
employ inspectors who know the dlf-'that St. Joseph would have a new
ference between sand and cement and interurban line to Kansas City over
who can tell the difference between a the now abandoned Gower branch of
four-Inch base in paving and a six-! the St. Joseph & Grand Island rail-
Inch base called for by a paving
tract.
I take this occasion to repeat to you
gentlemen and to again assure yoU
and all citizens of St. Joseph, that if finance, for he was unable to con
elected to this high office by the peo- vlnce the Etate Pub,lc utilities com
pie. I shall consider myself answer- mission that he had the money,
able to the people only, and not to' A Jefferson City dispatch says that
any man, political boss, faction or on Monday that commission dismissed
domineering newspaper. the application of W. E. Winner of
I would, however, deem it a favor
and an honor to at any time have the
advice and counsel of your worthy or
ganization, or of any other organiza
tion of citizens who have the interest
of the City of St. Joseph at heart, in
order that we may go forward to
gether to make St. Joseph indeed the
"City Worth While."
Very respectfully,
BARNEY E. REILLY.
SPANKING THE TOWN
We are not mentioning any names, sIon he hag not suppiled u with any
and do not wish to be personal, but it proof of abiuty to take over the prop
seems to us that the people of St.'erty and operate it.
Joseph are tired of this everlasting.
scolding of a certain pink newspaper
editor who is always finding fault JOST DOWN ON 'EXPERTS''
with the situation generally and con-1
demning everything not originated by, They All Criticise Voluminously, But.
himself.
One of two things Is certain: This
particular editor from New England
(we- shall not mention any names) is St. Joseph Is constantly pestered'
either naturally cross, like a dyspeptic w'th foreign "experts" who come here,
spitz dog, or he wants to be a petty to tell the people what to do and
boss and overlord of this community. how t0 do ' Thse "experts" are
In either case the people are getting all out for the money that is in It.
tired of him and tired of his methods, and if that is cut off there would be
and tired of his scolding, accusations no further crop of "experts" to tell
and threats concerning everybody and people what to do and how to do It.
everything that does not happen to Mayor Jost of Kansas City, who has
suit him, or that he happens to have a been elected twice to that honorable
hallucination concerning. If it is dys- position and will bo re-elected again
nensia. of course, there Is some excuse next month, has no use for these pests
for It. as one can always make allow- and he is not at all backward In say
ances for afflictions, though it Is aw- ing so. He does not believe that the
fully annoying to have to put up with "expert" who pays no taxes lias the
a public sentiment moulder who ts as right to say what the people should
cross as a bear with sore paws. On do or should have. In a speech the
the other hand, if it Is due to a doml- other night he hit the nail on the
neering. egotistical disposition and a head when he is reported this way:
desire to be boss of the town and run pe?l who come to,Kansas City
.. . .. . . . , , and tell how other cities have elimi-
it. he or any other pink-overshadow (ed nated poHtlcs and municipal waste
individual (as stated, we are not men- from their governments are not in
tioning any names) who gets such an good standing with Mayor Jost. "We
Idea into his head might just as well have a lot of 'experts' come here most
.. , every week," the mayor told a Domo
understand now as any other time cratlc raeetlng in the Sixteenth ward
that the people of this community last night with a contemptuous em
have as little use for newspaper bosses phasis on the "experts" "who address
as they have for political bosses, and the City club and the Rotary club
.. . . . , . . ... and other civic organizations and
that he cannot browbeat this com- turu up tneIr nosea at the Unlon sta.
munlty into submission by shameless- tion getting. They talk learnedly and
ly trying to destroy the good name glvo a lot of advice, but when we look
of clean young men of good character, Jt up we find they lies': pay tsses
like Barney Reilly. ,beTr,e- ,, , . . .
.... , , , c-. x i. Every grumbler, faultfinder and "ex-
It the good people of St. Josoph see1 ... " . ! , . 0. . u i.
fit to elect Barney Reilly mayor, as we " ? ha8 t0 d f Joseph ,ts
firmly believe they will, the principal fauUs lately is not a taxpayer.
reason for their action in so doing . , , ... ...
...in .. .- ..m...- i.n ,.hi.J Advices received from Secretary ot
nill lfT IU !llllllllllOll--k 1 lUOlitlt, UUUAt7
to this ovorboarlng gentleman who
hoo en imtuctki find niltraO'Dntloll' rit.
. , , , ,., ...
tacked a clean young man without.
cause.
(Continued on Page Eight)
GREEN WAS REAL GREEN
When He Tried to Put One Over on
Secretary of the Treasury
McAdoo
That Secrctarly McAdoo does not
propose that scheming politicians shall
srare him is shown by a Washington
dispatch which says that on the other
day Secretary McAdoo made public a
telegram from State Senator James I.
Green of Massachusetts, relating to a
promotion for Mr. Green's brother in
the Boston custom house, and hln own
rcply. The tciCBram ,rom Mr. Green
to the secretary read as follows:
As secretary of the treasury you
nave tun power to create Immediately
my expense.
In his reply Mr. McAdoo said:
con-Way, but as it now looks, Winner, the
Kansas City railroad plunger, who pro-
Psed t0 construct it, does not seem
to have been able to raise the needed
Kansas uity ror autnority to purcnase
what is known as the Gower branch
, of the St. Joseph & Grand Island rail
troad, comprising about 10 V4 miles of
track between Trimble and Gower,
Clinton county. The application was
filed Jan. 5, following a complaint filed
against the company by Paul M. Cul
ver, who asked for an order to compel
the road to operate trains over the
track. In Winner's application he
stated that he would pay $50,000 for
the line and convert it into an electric
rn,H In tho nnlnlnn nf tho pnmmla.
None of Them Pay
City Taxes
State Con Roach state that Charles
1). Mom, editor of the St. Joseph
Gazette, has depos ted a $1G0 flHng
. ' . ' .... .
tee for his entrance Into the race fer
... , ,
uopuDiican oomiiuuie mr guvuriiwr ui
Missouri.
..
lgBacS
. . ii BgjmriiBiP''SBB
kLfttdfc&i
