AGESCY ITEMS
William layers reports snow three feet
deep in the woods near his home on Clear
water river.
Joseph Koberts came in from Sayerville
on the 30th after supplies.
Dutch Brim lost two cows and three
calves during his absence from home at Be
nidji recently. Mr. and Mrs. Brim accom
panied their daughter, Josephine, to Be
midji, where she was operated on at St. An
thony's hospital Tuesday, March 28th. She
is reported as doing fine.
Simon Jourdain is in the hospital at
present to recuperate following an operation
at St. Anthony's hospital in Bemidji.
Brown Oakgrove was moved to the hos
pital on Monday from Cross Lake. It was
a long hard trip for the little fellow as he
has a compound fracture of the left leg. He
is improving nicely and so patient that he
has Avon the sympathy of the entire hospi
tal force, and it is pleasure to do all we can
for him.
Mrs. Adolph Barrett from Clearwater
was moved to the hospital on Wednesday
after a consultation between Dr. Linton and
Dr. Bowers.
Dr. Linton was at the Agency hospital
from Monday until Friday, and was very
busy during that time.
TTmle Dick Bii^aird pas^eiiAway^ri^ax
night, March 30th, at the age of about 80
years. His death was due to old age, and
marks the passing of another old timer and
old type of American Indian, He leaves a
wife, Tay-bus-aush-eke, and two sons, Amos
and John Bigbird, surviving him.
April 27th and 28t?h next have been
ignated as "Clean Up,
days Rememberdes- the
date and watch for notices.
It is rumored that Miss Mabel Bright
may be offered a promotion and detailed as
Nurse at Large in the Indian Service.
With the opening of spring only one ap
plication for transfer lias been filed. Bet
ter try and stay for summer, and by that
time you'll have forgotten the long winter.
Supt. L. M. Compton of the Toinah, Wis
consin, Indian School arrived in Red Lake
March 22nd and stayed until the morning
of the 25th during which time he visited the
Ren" Lake School, Cross Lake School and
St. Mary's Mission School explaining and
giving suggestions looking towards a bet
ter establishment of the New Course of
Stiuh in these schools
Mr. Hart, Clerk at the Wahpeton Indian
School, A\as i pleasant Alitor at the Agency
meuth. He escorted Elmer Morgan from
that school to Red In. where Elmer's par
ents \ei eagcrh waiting his arrival with
a rig to take him o\er to their home in the
Cross Lake Distiict
John English h\^ finished hauling 100
cords of A\OO(1 to the school
The Little Rock Club held a meeting in
their Club TTouse on March 15th. nearly all
members being present The election of of
ficers took place, resulting in Ed. Prentice,
Sinion Spears and Pieire Savers being re
elected to the offh es held bv them last year.
The Central Farmers' Club held a success
ful meeting at the home of Joe Mason.
We are glad to hear that Joe Mason, who
0EFE Vli PA6I-
RE LAK E NEW S
SUBSCRIBE FOR THE NEWS
VOLUME 4. RED LAKE, MINNESOTA, APRIL 1, 1916. NUMBER 15
has been sick for some time, is improving.
Baptiste Taylor, who has been very low
with pneumonia, is slowly recovering.
George English and family wish to extend
thanks to those who so kindly helped them
in their hour of sorrow during the recent
illness and subsequent death of their beloved
daughter, Margaret, who died on March 15.
Uncle Alex is rejoicing over the arrival
of two colts from "his" team born on March
19th and 20th.
Among those AVIIO have finished logging
are Sinion Spears, Jacob Moose, George
Sumner, Frank Howard, Ernest King, Da
vid Jones, Pewaush and Ben. Hobson.
Sophia Chaboyea deserves a great deal of
credit for her activities in farming. She
now has four new milch cows, and finds a
ready market for all the milk she gets. She
also cares for three horses, four hogs, and
about forty chickens. During the summer
she farms about five acres of land and puts
up all the hay for the stock. It would be
encouraging if a number of "around town
men" would pattern after her and get busy.
Andrew Carl and Frank Mason are clerk
ing in the Chippewa Trading Store.
Omar Gravelle, who has recently been on
the sick list, is around feeling much im
proved.
John Morrison, Jr., recently made a trip
to the cities to do
their.
spring
is about two feet of snow in the woods.
CROSS LAKE NEWS ITEMS
The stores at Ponemah are receiving lots
of freight in anticipation of the payment.
Supt. Dickens and Supt. L. M. Compton
of Tomah, Wisconsin, were at the school the
23d in the interest of the new course of
study.
Mr. Dupris, Farmer, left for his new de
tail at Vermillion Lake School the 30th.
Brown Oakgi'ove, a school boy, fell from
the loft in the horse barn the 17th and broke
his leg. He is now in the Red Lake hos
pital.
O-mush-ke-go died at his home near Me
quom Bay March 16th.
The little daughter of George Oldman is
seriously ill with pneumonia.
Mary Rig Wolf is home from Fort Totten
because of the illness of her father.
Joe Gnnes of Rod Lake is working for
the R. L. Fairbanks Company of Ponemah.
Philip Kay-bay-aus-ung, son of George
Ka\-baA-aus-uni died at the Point the
24th.
Elmer Moigan returned from the Wah
peton Indian School on account of poor
health.
Miss Dempster and Miss Dunbar made a
trip to Bemidji the first part of the month.
FARM ST [TIOX ITEMS
John Spears has hauled lumber and is
erecting a barn on his place adjoining the
Farm Station.
Louis Gurneau has returned from Red
Lake where he buried his baby girl.
Mr. and Mrs. Brun are in Bemidji, where
their daughter, Josie, underwent an opera
tion.
Xow that the snow has settled down and
-fS^ESu^a^wm^ guile, ^tltiKmgfe there- carpget ftT^^at^^
with the conditions.
WABHXVO.
The introduction of intoxicating liquors
into this reservation or its sale to non-,
citizen Indians is forbidden by law under
a penalty of imprisonment for not less
than sixty days.
See Act of January 30, 1897 (29 State
L., 606.)
The following is an extract from the
Spokesman-Review:"
Firewater, the curse of the redman, is
now sought after in vain by the Indians in
this vicinity. At least, the records of the
federal court indicate that the Colville res
ervation is probably the dryest spot in the
whole dry state of Washington. Not an
arrest for selling liquor to Indians or in
troducing it onto a reservation has been,
made by the federal authorities since the
first of the year.
Unless some arrest for one of these of
fenses is made in the next three or four
weeks the April session of the grand jury
will present a condition hitherto unknown
in the history of the federal courta crim
inal docket with no bootlegging case. In
the past every session has had to deal with
from 15 to 20 "liquor to Indian" cases.
There has not been an arrest or any viola
tion of the liquor regulations of the Indian
Service on the Bed Lake Reservation for
-,.buying.. several montl&l Tlye, Indians say they
is only about a foot deep we can 'get, to our
hay stacks, many of which it was impossible
to get to a week ago.
Clifford Shosten of Highlanding was re
cently here to arrange for cutting down
some dead and down cedar which they con
template floating down the Red Lake River
in the spring.
Joe Omen offers his improvements for
sale on the place he selected and built on
near the Farm Station. The improvements
consist of one log cabin 18x22 feet, one log
barn, one surface water well, a small gar
den and a few other improvements, to
gether with a large hay meadow. This is
a very desirable place. The buildings are
on high ground surrounded by timber. He
will take f65.00 for them.
Gus Larjeunesse has purchased lumber
and is hauiing it to his place to erect some
more farm buildings.
THE CROAKER
A crov, flew up to {.lie highest limb
Of the highest old dead pine,
And the world was the gloomiest place to him,
For the crow couldn't see a sign
Of a blossom red
On that pme tree dead
Nor a berry to quench his thirst
And he said, said he,
In his old pine tree,
"Well, isn't this world the worst?"
I know some men who are like that.opow
Who pick out a gloomy spot
They can see no sign in the world below
Of the joy that the world has got.
My boy, don't you
Be a pessimist, too
With a face that is black as coke
Don't sit like him
On an old dead limb
And croak, and croak, and croak.
American Lumberman.
-JP *w iwawiinWBMi
?I
