THE BARRE DAILY TIMES
VOL. XX NO. 15.
BARRE, VERMONT, SATURDAY, APRIL 1, 1916.
TRICE, ONE CENT.
ROUTED BANDITS
BEING HUNTED;
VILLA DESERTS
With Only Short Rest After Defeating
Mexicans, Col. Dodd's Cavalry Took
Up the Trail and Are Searching for
the Scattered Villistas
VILLA WAS PROBABLY
NOT WOUNDED
Latest Report Says That He May Have
Given Out Report That He Was Hurt
In Order to Put His Pursuers Off,
the Trail
the fact that their thought was to nave
him. Unable to wulk or ride, he was
placed in a light wagon and driven over
the rough mountain trails to some secret
lair.
While 31 of the handitn are known to
have been killed, it is said the number
may have been considerably larger. Noth
ing is yet known as to the number of
wounded, although it is presumably in
proportion to the dead.
The last outrage credited to Villa oc
curred at Minaca, a town about 10 miles
southeast of Guerrero, on the Mexico A
Orient railroad. Here the Mexicans are
reported to have murdered Hermann
Blankenberg, a mine foreman, and two
other foreigners. It is feared the two
unknown victims are Americans.
Nome time before the Minacta massacr",
Villa descended on Guerrero, where he
slaughtered all the Carranza troops he
could find. It was probably at Guerrero
that he wag wounded. I
After the battle on the San Geronimo
ranch the American soldiers released a
large number of Osrran74i men whom the
bandit chief was holding.
Excitement in El Paso and along the
ooroer is at lever heat in expectation
that at any moment the wires may Hash
the news of Villa's death or capture.
Two days already have elapsed since the
battle of San Geronimo and it is not le
lieved that the bandit chief can escape
in hit crippled condition.
San Antonio, Texas, April 1. With only a brief rest, Colonel
Dodd's cavalry, to whom fell the honor Wednesday of dispersing
' 500 Villa men at Guerrero, has resumed the chase of the scattered
bandit bands, while the supporting forces of American troops cover
the railroad toward Chihuahua, and a smaller detachment began
beating the country for signs of the bandit leader himself.
Just where Villa went when the Americans charged his forces
at Guerrero is not known here. Unofficial reports to-day indicated
The possibility of an error in the report that Villa was injured.
One of these which came from Mexican sources said he was unin
jured and had spread the report of his broken leg in order to dis
tract attention of the Americans.
Report of Villa's Capture Not Believed
El Paso, Texas, April 1. The capture of Villa by the flying
squadrons of American cavalry searching the Sierra Madres moun
tains is believed in army .circles to be only a question of days.
That Villa already has been captured and is being brought back to
Casas Grandes was the report heard to-day, but it is not credited in
official quarters.
w. . ..... . . .
El Paco, Tex., April 1. Four hundred
American cavalrymen under command of
Col. George A. Dodd, galloping down trom
the trranitc slopes of the great Continen
tal divide, have fallen on the main body
of Francisco Villa s bandits at the San
Geronimo ranch, scattering them in many
directions and driving the bandit chief,
wounded and crippled, to seek a hiding
place in the mountains. Villa was hur
ried from danger in a carriage. The fight
opened at 0 o'clock in the morning of
.March 2!) and continued for several hours.
The news of the exploit was flashed
into Juarez yesterday and sent a thrill
along the border. For 17 hours the vet
eran colonel, with his picked troopers of
the seventh and 10th cavalry, drove down
the valley of the Santa. Maria river. At
the end of a oo-mile ride they fell upon
the unsuspecting Villa camp, where 500
bandits were celebrating the massacre of
172 Carranz soldiers two days previous
ly at Guerrero.
Villa, shot through the leg and with
one hip shattered, was hurried from the
scene, barely in time to escape the on
slaught of the Americans. The bandits
made a brief but hopeless stand before
charge of Colonel Dodd and his troopers.
Then they broke and fled, leaving 31 dead
on the field, including their commander,
Gen. Eli.eo Hernandez. Two machine
guns, a number of horses, rifles, ammuni
tion and equipments, fell into the hands
of the Americans.
Among the known wounded is Tablo
laipez. Villa's lieutenant in the Columbua
raid, lhe American casualties were four
privates wounded.
The American soldiers did not linger
in the field. For five hours they drove
the enemy before them into the wilder
ness of mountain peak, desert and can
yon, where roads or even trails are un
known, and where a misstep means death
to hore and rider. They halted only
after the chase had led them 10 miles
and the fugitives were scattered into lit
tle Kinds of half a dozen men each.
Villa's career has ended; his power
has lceii broken. Hi death or capture
is a question of days, perhaps only hours.
Such is the inevitable conclusion reached
here, a little by little the details of
Dodd's ride reach the border. It seems
impossible that the bandit can long re
main hidden, even in the mountainous
wastes in which he lias sought refuge.
The scene of Colonel Dodd'd vivtorv is
GAINED
GROUND
INVAUX
German Drive During Night
Forced the French to Give
Way in Part of the Vil-
' lage, Allowing Germans to
Get Footing in That Ter
ritory
OTHER HEAVY ATTACK
WAS REPULSED
West of trie Meuse, There
Was a Violent Bombard
ment in the Region of Ma
lancourt, Indicating That
Infantry Assault Would
Be Made There
I'aris, April I. The Germon forces de
livered two heavy attacks last night in
the Verdun region east of the Mens.
The war office announced this afternoon ! quarantine
that one attack gained the Germans u 'Schiller in jail here, accompanied the de
tooting in the village of atix and the iccuves
other was repulsed. est of the river
GER3IANY SAID
TO BE IN DARK
ABOUT ATTACKS
Ambassador Gerard Cables that Govern
ment at Berlin Has Informed Him
that It is Investigating.
Washington, I). C, April 1. Ambas
sador (ierard cabled the state depart
ment to-day he had been informed by the
German government that nothing was
known officially there of the attacks on
the steamers Sussex and Englishman, but
that investigation was being: made, lie
said the German government informed
him it had only the newspaper report
on the two cases up to the present
The contents of Ambassador Gerard's
note was immediately wirelessed to Pre'
ident Wilson who is on a week-end it'll
down the t'otoniad on the naval yacht
Mayflower. The Investigation promised
by UcrJm may take a week or more. The
submarine commanders at sea have to
report before the German government
can say definitely whether its submarines
attacked the steamers.
FEARED ATTEMPT
TO RESCUE SPY
Schiller Was Transferred to New York
Last Night in Order to Frustrate
Any Daring Work.
Lewes, Del., April 1. Ernst Schiller,
the German stowaway who captured the
tiritish steamer Iiatoppo, was taken
from jail here last night by detectives
anil huried across the country to Har
rington in an automobile. From there,
it was said, he would be taken by train I
to Xew York. The detectives said thev
had received information that attempts
would be mado to rescue Schiller and
with the consent of the local authorities
they decided to take him to Xew oYrk.
Schiller himself readily consented to
go, saying he would do anything to keep
out of the hands of the liritisli officials.
Justice of the peace register, Immigra
tion Inspector Keiss and Dr. Messick. the
physician, who examined
A ZEPPELIN
CAPTURED
BY BRITISH
BEGIN OFFICIAL YEAR.
One of Five Airships in Raid
Upon England's Eastern
Counties Came Down at
the Mouth of the Thames,
and Its Crew Were Taken
Prisoners
HUGE BULK THEN
WAS SUBMERGED
About 100 Bombs Were
Dropped in Many Places
Another Raid by Hostile
Aircraft Was Made Over
the Northeastern Counties
there was a violent bombardment in the
region of Malancourt.
An Attack Last Evening Repulsed.
The official statement last night was
as follows:
in the region of I.e Mort Homnir,
after a violent bombardment, the enemy
toward 6 o'clock in the evening started
against our positions to the northeast
of Cote 205, a strong attack accompa
nied with a barrier of lachrymosal shells.
"The Germans succeeded for a moment
in gaining a footing in some elements of
our first lines, but were driven out
through a vigorous attack by our troops.
Another attack, directed a
WILL RECOM3IEND
THAT BRANDEIS
BE CONFIRMED
Senate Judiciary Sub-committee Stands
Three to Two, Party Lines Being
Drawn, and Each One Will
Submit a Separate
Report.
to the west of the same position, failed
completely.
"To the east of the Meuse and in the
Woevre there has been moderate artil
lery activity.
"In the forest of Apremont we have
bombarded enemy cantonments at Yar
vinay. Our fire against a German bat
tery in action caused several eaissions to
explode.
Washington. D. C. April 1. By a vote
of three to two, th Senate judiciary
sub-committee which hag been consider-
little later jing the nomination of Louis I), Brandeis
for the supreme court to-day voted to
recommend confirmation to the entire
committee. Those voting for confirma
tion were Senators Chilton, Walsh and
Fletcher, Democrats; those voting
against were Senators dimming am!
Works. Republican. The full committee
is understood to stand virtually even.
Each member of the sub-committee
will submit a separate report, setting
London, April 1. It is officially an
nounced that one of the Zeppelins that
raided eastern counties last night came
down off the mouth of the Thames and
wag captured by a liritisli patrol boat.
After the crew had been taken off, the
machine sank.
Twenty-eight persons were killed and 44
were injured during the raid, accord
ing to the official figures.
The first official statement of the raid
said:
"An air raid took place last night over
the eastern counties in which five Zep
pelins are believed to have taken part.
All the raiders crossed the coast at dif
ferent places and times and steered dif
ferent courses.
"A present about 90 liombs are report
ed to have been dropped in various locali
ties in the eastern countries, but the re
sults are not known.
"It is further reported that hostile air
craft visited the northeast roast, but no
details have vet been received."
FORMER PRECEPTRESS GREETED.
To the south of the Somme the en- forth the grounds upon which he reached
emy, after artillery preparations, at- i his conclusion. The entire committee
Miss Eliza C. I sham Guest at Goddard
Reception.
Miss Eliza C. Isham, whose services as
preceptress at Goddard seminary extend
ed over a period of 17 years, from lSDo
to 1012, was given a welcome reception
at the institution Friday afternoon, when
students, present member of the faculty
and alumni assembled in the school par
lors. Miss lshnm. who is a member of
the Burlington high school faculty, is a
guest of l'rin. (I. K. Hollister and Mrs.
Ifollister at their home on Merchant
street. Her visit to the seminary was
made the occasion for reopening the
school parlors, which have been-refur-
Various Bane Men Entered Upon Their
Duties To-day.
Appointive and elective officers whose
I titles to their respective offices were
ratified either by the voters at the March
elections or by confirmative action on the
parr of the aldermanic board, began their
fiscal year to-day, April I. In some in
stances offiyeholdera who were reappoint
ed by Mayor Koliert Gordon have failec
to qualify and in such cases tney con
tinue in office by virtue of .the fact that
thev have qualified at some time or an
other in the past. 'While the mayor and
the aldermen elected .March 7 took tne
oath almost immediately, other officials
did not take office virtually until to-day.
Through the demise of Werner K. Beck,
there remains a vacancy to be filled in
the list of assistant engineers. Mr. Beck
was reappointed soon after Mayor Gor
don canu? into office. and he qualified at
once, as had been his custom m years
past. Death, however, cut short his long
time affiliation with Uarre's organized
fire department.
Officers whose terms began to-day and
who have qualified for the discharge of
their duties are: Frank O. Lee, water
superintendent and city engineer; .Tames
Wilson, superintendent ot streets; W 11
liam' Wishirt, city attorney and state
paid grand juror; W. J. Clapp, overseer
of the poor; Dr. I. S. Duffy, city physi
cian; Dr. J. W. Stewart, secretary of the
board of health; Augustus M. Rossi, as
sessor for three years; George M. Rand,
inspector of buildings; David Gilbertson,
inspector of electric wiring; E. M. Tobin,
first assistant engineer; R. D. Carpenter,
third assistant engineer; F. T. Cutler,
cemetery commissioner; William McDon
ald, trustee of cemetery trust funds;
B. B. Jackson, poundkeeper; Ixiuis Rollo,
C. D. Badger and C. W. Clifford, city
weighers; ark commissioner, George X.
Tihlen ; fence viewer. J. C. Harri ; audi
tors, D. J. Sullivan and William Stephen.
Although W. B. Marrion has not yet
qualified m a third member of the audit
ing board, he continues in office tor the
reason that he qualified for service last
year, lhe fire chief and the city physi
cian, each receiving an increase of $100,
are the only officers whose salaries were
changed.
The board of assessors began their du
ties this morning in conformance with
the statutes. For several days the board
has been engaged in appraising new prop
erty, additions and improvements. To
day the office at city hall was opened for
the receiving of inventories. Business
did not start off with a rush, but prop
erty owners and all taxpayers, for that
matter, have until April 20, under the
statute, to call at the assessors' office and
swear to their inventories, if they have
property that can be assessed. After
April 20, persons who have been delin
quent in the matter of making appear
ance before the board, whether or not
they swear to property or are merely
subject to a poll taxation, may be dealt
with almost at the discretion of the as-
TO TRANSFER
REV. E.F. NEWELL
Pastor of Hedding Church
to Go to New Eng
land Conference
SERVED FOUR YEARS
WITH BARRE CHURCH
The Announcement v ..fte
ceived To-day 'Ac Sin
cere r ;t
tempted a series of attacks in force will meet Monday but it is not expected j nished entirely in the past few weeks.
against our small command in the rc
gion of Dompierre. All their attempts
failed.
"In Champagne our destructive fires
shattered German trenches to the south
of Saints Marie-a-l'y. A German aero
plane, which was struck by our special
guns, fell in flames within the enemy'
lines to the north of Tahure.
"In the Argonne our artillery shell!
troops on the march in the direction of
Varennes.
"One of our aviation pilots, in the
course of a spirited fight, brought down
an Aviatik inside our lines at Soppe, in
the region of Belfort."
the matter will be voted upon until
later.
MAKE THREAT
OF BIG STRIKE
ON STREET CARS
CONGRESS CHEERED
MEXICO NEWS
President Wilson Sent Congratulations to
Secretary Baker and the. Latter Con
gratulated Funston and Pershing.
Washington. D. C, April 1. Congress
stopped business and cheered to-day
wnen ine news or i oionei ihIU s success
ful attack on Villa forces was officially
announced. IVesident Wilson sent con
gratulations to Secretary of Wr Baker
and the hitter, in ,turn, congratulated
runston and I'ershing by wire.
On receipt of the new last night Sec
retary Baker gave out the following
statement :
NORWEGIAN SHIP
A WAR SACRIFICE
The Memento .of 1,000 Tons Has Been
Sent to the Bottom and One of Her
Crew Was Lost.
Woburn, Mass., Trolley, System Was
Tied Up This Morning Becaur-c.
Men Struck to Secure Re
instatement of Conductor.
From 4 o'clock until 6 friends of the
former preceptress were given an oppor
tunity to greet her. In the receiving line
with Miss Isham were Principal and Mrs.
Hollister, Miss Agnes Safford, the present
preceptress, and Noah V. Barker, also of
the faculty. A number of young women
students, who acted as ushers while the
sessors.
A telephone "has been installed at the
oflice. the call number being 7tl-W. The
following canvasser have been appointed
to distribute notification slips and to col
lect the names of persons liable to taxa
tion: Ward 1. A. Anderson; ward 2, Nel
son Brown, Thomas Carroll; ward 3.
Lawrence lender, K. I,'. Maker; ward 4.
Peter Thorn, John Frontini; ward ", Carl
D. Waterman. Kino Maggiani; ward B,
John T. Ct!laghnn, Kgidio Rulfo.
CLINTON M. BASSETT.
Died Last Night at His Home on Sum
mer Street. ,
Woburn, Mass., April 1. No trolley'
cars icit the earns oi ine nay Mate
street railway in this city and Bone came
into the city from adjoining places dur
ing the early hours this morning. About
eight conductors and motornien are in
volved in the strike which went into ef
fect on the Woburn division at midnight
Clinton M. Bassctt passed away at his
home, 47 Summer street. Friday evening
at 7 o'clock, the end following an illness
of nearly a year. He had been confined
11,1 i i l f . l 11 ...
reception was in progress, later assisted! J" n,B 1 ""-
in serving daintv refreshments of sherts.t's "ved by his wife, who was Miss
and wafers. The service was in charge 1)rown' to whwm ,!e was ""J1
of Mrs. F. M. Lvnde, a member of the!'" Barre 25 years ago. and seven children,
class of 1HSS. and Mrs. George Kent, class Eorrest M. Basset t. Robert C bassctt.
of im'ik 4 ,.lmi-,.,i., K.,,.ff i. ,,,,. il ' Earl D. Bassctt. Mrs. Mildred E. Payne.
adorned the refreshment table, while ! Erank W. Bassctt. Mary E. Bassctt, and be his la-t appearance as pastor of the
chIIm lilirw urn i.sp.I iTw-tiwnlv' in lii;Genroe W. Bassctt. Surviving also are i local church. hev. erne Smith is to
N
Announcement wa made to member
of the Hedding Methodist church to-day
that their pastor, Rev. Elmer F. Newell,
is to bo transferred to the Xew England
conference after serving three churches in
the Vermont conference and that his new
harge will be in Massachusetts, perhaps
Lynn. The announcement was re
ceived with sincere regret by his parish
ioners, as well as bv a Iare number of
townspeople, inasmuch a Dr. Newell had
come to be regarded very highly in the
community where he had served four
years. At the recent quarterly confer
ence of the Hedding church the unani
mous request was expressed that he be
returned as pastor for another year, but
it had been known for some time that
Dr. and Mrs. Newell desired to 1m trans
ferred either to the New England or the
New England Southern conference, for
reasons which were stated to-day by the
former.
Mr. Newell said in connection with the
proposed transfer: "(n order that the
sudden move of the pastor from the Hed
ding church of Barre at the Vermont con
ference may be thoroughly understood, I
am, through the kindness of the Barre
Times, making this statement:
"For a long time my name has been in
the New England and New England
Southern conferences so that when the
right opportunity came I might be moved
to southern New England. A few days
before the conference session at Mont
pelier I received a letter from Bishop
Hamilton asking if I still wished to move
to Massachusetts. I replied that if the
right opportunity came 1 would like t'
go, but I owed it to the people of the
Hedding church to notify them as soon
as possible if I eventually was to move.
' "I found out for certain this morning
and I at once got in touch with the peo
ple of the Heddihg church.
''Mrs. Newell and myself have many
friends in Vermont and the three churches
where we have labored are dear to us.
Barre and the people are dear to us.
Their kindness, sympathy and loyalty
we can never forget. But where we are
to go is but a short distance from where;
I'ome of our friends are buried, where
many of our friends are living and Mrs.
Newell's mother is well along in years
and quite ill during some parts of the.
year. Our son will be near us in the
college that he attends. With these con
siderations no one can blame us for thn
move, and 1 tim sure the bishop and the
cabinet will do what isriglit by this im
portant church.
A bishop (Hughes) moved us to Barre
four years ago and a bishop moves ns
out now. in both cases subject to our
willingness, of course, to the move.
Trusting the future will have ever-increasing
prosperity for the Hedding'
church, I am ' Elmer F. Newell."
Rev. Mr. Newell has arranged to be at
the mornina service at the Hedding
church to-morrow nd that will probably
reinstate Conductor John J. Martin, for
mer "resident of the local union, wha.
Ixmdon. April 1. Lloyds reports the .the companv claims, was discharged lor
sinking of the thousand ton Norwegian I failing to set a signal light.
steamer Memento. One of the crew was
drowned; the others were saved.
. Lloyd's also reports the sinking of the
l,2iH)-ton Norwegian steamship Nome
and of the British schooner John Pritard.
The crews of both were saved.
reception room arrangement. During the his mother. -Mrs. John Johnston, and two
reception the seminary orchestra, in the j brothers, Burton Bassctt of Barre Town
lower hall of the administration building, j i'r Hayes Bassctt of Cabot.
plaved overtures. lhe deceased was horn in itarre town
Since the plan to refurnish the school April 17. 170. As a young man he was
parlors was first entertained, much has . employed as a granite cutter, being ami
been achieved in the way of beautifying ! iated with the organization of that trade
the rooms that have Is'en used at the j for several years. Latterly he belonged
following the refusal of the company to ! seminary for reception purposes through ! to the lumpers union and prior to his
many years. hk uxors nave Decn lam. i last illness ne was in me employ oi
,-ieei ceilings replace me paper iormeriy Mnith, Whiteomo A' toon
in evidence and new Lyon-Persian rugs
have been laid. An indirect lighting sys
tem has been added and a complete set
of mission furniture, finished mision-
The leaders of the union say that if
the company endeavors to restore the
HOSPITAL SHIP SUNK.
German War Vessel Said to Have Beeq
the Cause of Loss.
"The success of Col. Dodd in catching
up with the retreating bandit and dis-
a broad valley lying att he head of'the persing them shows the value of effec-
Santa Maria river. On the west side rise tiveness of the careful preparations made
the barren foothills of the Continental i nv t.enerak Funston as well as the dash
and vigor with which Colonel Dodd him
self and the members of his command
have undertaken their task.
"It is a matter of great gratification
to us all that the first encounter is so
decisive and that our own troops have
suffered so slightly. The effect on both
sides of the border will undoubtedly be
good. It will allay apprehension on the
American aide by showing the rapidity
and effectiveness with which our army
acts and among the Mexican people it
will show the singleness of our purpose
and discourage other bandits from sym
pathetic de monstartion.
This comes as a very adequate answer
divide, an I to the east, is a trail, made
famous by Villa, which leads through the
I 'giuia ile Castilla district to Santa
Ysals'l. It was at the latter place that
Villa killed 18 American mining men, a
crime which sent a thrill of horror
through the United State and marked
the lM'ginning of what many believe to
le the end of his blood-stained career. It
was toward Santa Vsabel that he was
lelieved to be heading when the troopers
of the United Statns ewept down from
the north upon his camp.
From the mengre details which have
reached here from Mexican and American
military sources, Colonel Dodd'e men
ma.ie ineir way iinnoueea mrougn m those whn f.rH th.t i, i.i v.- ,
arroyos or deep gulehe, which spilt up ,, ,,, p,infu, ,t
t l,f footh.l U in all dire, t ion, .d were thrse mar(III1,.rs ,,, .
ground to hope that the entire object
Faris, April 1. The hospital ship Por
tugal has been sunk in the Black sea by
a German torpedo boat or submarine
with a large number of wounded aboard,
according to an announcement of the
official bureau last night. It is said that
the Portugal had Red Cross signals con
spicuously displayed.
The Portugal was owned by the Mes
sagerie Maritime of Marseilles and had
been placed at the disposal of the Rus
sian government.
The Portugal was 44-4 feet long and
had a gross tonnage of ii.t.'. tons. She
was built at I-a Ciotat in 18S7.
service with strike-breakers, a svmns- slv,p ' u"v,'n mK- IO "armonize w in
thetic strike on the entire system involv- 1 ,0 "!,"r1,or "ngcn,cnt. hat been m
imr 4 1HS1 mn in t.oi,..... v... Called. In short, the parlors have been
Hampshire and Rhode Island w'ilf be j 1 ""f ,,1v transformed that they will
(.a(j lie scarcely recognized by graduates re
turning in commencement lime.
Proceeds of a "seven-cent fair" given
by the students in the autumn of 1!U5
and the nceumulation of the Goddard
Record fund, aggregating together $7"l.
have made it psiblc for the school au
thorities to refurnish the parlors in a
manner that entirely befits the uses to
which they are put with growing frequency.
GIBSON NOT AGGRESSOR.
Was Important Feature of Prosecution's
Evidence in Leighton Case.
SHOT AT OFFICER.
Is Allegation Against Sherman P. Wade
of Milton.
Milton. April 1. State's Attorney T.
E. Hopkins was in Milton Thursday in
vestigating the case against Sherman P.
Wade, charged with as-aulting an officer
and attempting to shoot him. F. E.
Grow, thf constable, had a chattel mort
gage fir foreclosure on the property of
Mr. Wade, a saw mill. Wade had taken
off the govern'T and the throttle to the
Woodstock, April 1. The tendency of
the evidence for the state in the alleged
murder case against the Leightons of
Sharon is to show that on the morning
of the fracas, Charles 1-cighton was work
ing three or four miles from home.
When told tliat Mr. Gibson had gone
with four teams driven by Orlo M.
Wheeler, Fred and Solon Spauhling and
Will Morse, all of Sharon, to get the
logs, he pulled two sled t-takes of lever
wood, about four feet long, out of a near
by sled and started for home with his
horse on the gallop. When he got to the
woods w here the men were loading the j
logs, his two son. Waletr and Neweii.!
had the sled stakes .and lie had a fivf-L
shot ritle, l . .o-o, winch his sons
hid some time liefore Isirrowed of Wal
ter L. Ahlrich.
Funeral services are to be held at the
house, 47 Summer street. Monday after
noon at 2 o'clock. Interment w ill be
made in Maplewoixl cemetery.
$7,000 VERDICT RENDERED.
BLAMED THE "MOVIES."
Against American News Vending Concern
and Two Officers.
Burlington. April I. After being out
from 10:30 o'clock a. m. until 4 o'clock
in the afternoon, ine jury in ine coun
ty court case of Gardner B. Arnold of
tliis city vs. E. X. Somers. et al., re
turned a verdict for the plaintiff to re
cover ?7.(0" from the American News
Vending Machine companv of St. Johns
bury. J. E. Alexander and E. X. Somers.
and also returned a verdict in favor ot
Dr. W. J. Al lrich. F. M. Abls.tt and A.
P. Cadd. directors of the company, who
were co-defendants in the case.
verdict f'r the plaintiff carries with it
Judge Thought They Had Bad Influence
on Young Minds.
"Movies are getting to 1m worse than; the costs, which will be ass,-scd bv tli?
the f.aloon." declared Magistrate II. W.!,.,,urt. The suit, vhieh has l-en under
Scott in city court to-day as he listened j consideration for nearly two weeks, al
to the stories of youthful crime relate 1 ; a con-piracy on the part of tlie
bv a couple of nine-vear-ohl vomufsters ! i r,,..ri.n WuV Vendim? companv
preach the sermon at that scrvic
METHODIST LAYMEN
HOLD ATTENTION
AT CONFERENCE
SEC. CARDI RESIGNS.
George Maker is Temporary Secretary
of C. L. U.
who ascribed their transgressions, in
part, to the baleful influence of the film
iows. Petty larcenies extending over a
wide area in the city and including the
theft of milk U'ttlcs. umbrellas, dixrr
mats and rubbers were uneivered bv the
Holief this week with the re-n!t that 4f'f I
through it a directors to defraud tlie
plaintiff and the a.-eompli-hment of the
fraud by the sale to him through the
misrepresentations of J. E. Alexander,
salesman for the company, of thf patent
j right to manufacture and sell the coin
machines in the sl.ile ol .New
pan v s
ilmost in the camp before the alarm was
given.
Villa i reported to have been in a
Muall tent, nursing his injuries, when
the crash of the American volley fire
awoke the bandit to panic-stricken ac
1 ion.
The txtraordinary bold the bandit
chief has on his followers is shown bvi
of the expedition can be sjeedily accom
plished.
Mersey Dock Strike Ended.
Liverpool, April I. The Mer-cy dk
tnke has ended. The nun returned to
wcrk this morning.
At the regular meeting of the Central
Labor union of Barre and vicinity last
evening Silvio I., ( ardi. who has served
... , . I.i. ..I "
engine ami nati mem m ni pocKci.ime erSnu eiocienuy as secretary ; ,lirt, m h-)! u he consulted as to ),i
ooiig.il a nox oi siicus, weni nome ami jot w.ith. o-ir. .c.mere.i nis resigim-, f1ln,,.ti ,nt. f8,)lPr ,!,.,.! r,.,i t.lal
got a high jKiwer rifle and is said to j t inn to take effect at onf. Mr. Cardi'i gnv frt!i.r corrective m.a-ures were
request Oat the union comply with his!11M.,. ,! a,l,(hated that the be
wishes was honored and 1.,-orgf Maker ;,. , Vereenn.s. The resi.on.ient-.
however, wliowed a diiositinn to rc;
two lao-s were haile.l oetore the jmlae I i- ; , M, ,- ,orIf,j ted equip
uii'tcr the juvenue act. jtotu I-ys Ircclv I ,,,vs.rv for the manufacture of
thee machines. The plaint iff a-kel
mu ilamsces. lhe defendant nmde a
eonfessftl to visiting verandas sv-temati- i
rally and selling their' I Kit to a Maph
avenuf junk dealer.
It wasn't the intercession of the fa
ther of one of the lids that kept Imth re
spondent from going to the st.ite indus
In the Discussion of Methodist Policies
Longer Pastorates Was Urged Bish
op Hamilton Gave an Address
Last Evening.
The final business session of the Ver
mont Methodist conference wis held this
forenoon at Mont pel ier. although this
afternoon the joint meeting of the min
isters and laymen will take place. Ri ief
remarks by Bishop Hamilton prec.sled
the disposal of business and the bishop
also gave an address to the class for admission.
The lav electoral conference meeting
opened at 10 o'rbx-k in Bethany church
Vestry with devotional exercises and the
following program ws successfully car
ried out: "The Functions of the Official
Board." C. S. Andrews of Barre. C. D.
Itirtel of Montpelier. and E. H. Howe of
North Tliitfonl; 'Education." President
Guy Potter Benton of the University of
Vermont. I!cv. A. W. Hew itt of the stats
ThellMwtrd of education. Henry Holt, treasur
er ot .Mompeiier seminary; iind ly
Sclniols- Past. Present and Future," Supt.
s-herburn C. Hutchinson of Montpelier
public schools, Mrs. A. II. Webb of Fair
lee. P. .1. Himilton of Woodstock.
Yesterday afternoon San ford A. Dan
iels of Brattlcboro and C.-orge A. Morn
of Murrisville were elected delegates tn
the general conference to le held at Sara
toga, N. Y with A. A. Aeltine of Know
burg Falls and H. R. Robinson of North-
field, alternates.
F. S. Hale of Windsor and V. A. Irish
of Erne-burg Falls spoke on the question
of I ty representation in the annual eon
feretuf and Hon. Frank Pbimley of
NorthVlJ led in the discussion t,f the
question of the minimum wage for min
isters, loiter he sp,,ke on the desirability
of loner pastorates. Mr. I'lumlev said
general denial ol the pl.niit.fi s alf.g.l
tions. Ju.L'c Zed S. M.inton delivered
I, i .-liHr-'f 1 o I ne III t iiiiim-'ii.in-n mirri, , . , , r . i . , ,
ins I " ' ' 'tl, ,t wns his Im-IicT tliflt A tudstnr sfM)iiI.I
, .... - - ,
w . ..i! ..I ... :.. . .1 t. ..i
have started out to shoot up the men at
the mill. Mr. Grove met him and at
tempted to stop his going to the mill, a
Wade had said be wouldT kill William
Garrow and Edson Ijimb, who worked
at the mill, and then kill himself. Wade .'
was lei tcl to sire in In stead, with
the understanding that a permanent suc
cessor be (Jet-ted at the next monthly
jiieeling, when a complete slate of officer
e to le elected. Mr. Cardi will continu;"
lit
and alter tieing arijiitgpl delinquent,
they were put on prole pending gd be
haTir. The police say that the b-.
.re resuvi, 1 -r manv ot the minor
.t.ort convfi ,.-,,.,,, ,L. .. . . , : . ,l,r.i, ,,i
in-tn.cted taem that the d,.,t. -"M j , ; riii.,m-r. i-bed m .bancf or until
reenter acauist them prepctratmg a j ' rnT ,,,,., .,,illIllv a1, j,.
fraud, even taollgh there had been '',,., , v of . ,),.,.. J. C. Wh.tehill of
,,...,ircy. Mr. Arnold was represent-n i ,,. ,, u yiw of Kn.b,lr.,
I,v . .A. Ituuar.i ami iv. .im.non. an I
the defendants by C. II. Ihirlinir. R. E.I
p.rown. I-fvi P. Smith and II. W. Wit '
ter of St. Johnshurv. F. K. Fv of
Kiihiii"il was foreman of tbf jury.
I wmvl for thf defendant sav t
showed fight, it is charged at the ofli
cer with his run. and then shot at him as custodian of thf central body's librarr. i tliftts thst have been reported at lead
upon which he was arrested and hand- Routine matter occupied the attention of ' quarters sim-e the beginning of the win- ac will If taken to the supreme c iTt '
cuffed. the union until adjournment. tcrr D ex'fptions.
Fa'k talked on the financial problem
and bow .,led.
Bishop Hamilton's Address.
An nterlainirir lecturf Ht given in
the ity it'.i i:t-rium last evening by
(Continued on eighth -apf
