j,v.,--.'f;.-
'ffife.s.;
.. "W' -1 ' -r... .
'ivWfefe:!$
.;. iRsF- '
!",(V r&fi-K.'.'.'-iv
w . ,i-3..V
ti'. f i
GUI? laitfttfnn H?raUi
i-.?s
J. auatH COUNTY'S
- r,
FALLS"
:v .!J
KLAMATH
3&
v fti.i r:
OfWClAL NEWSPAPER
WSS
OFFICIAL NEWSPAPER
."
l.rwNo.g.gM
KLAMATH FALLS, OREGON, SATURDAY, APRIL 1, 1916
I'riM, Oea "7 .-
iS
&
1""
r
1 1
IRIAN AIRMEN
; Kill MANY IN
M US
Fr?nci JVcr Minister
RAID
BRITISH Clt'NH ' IWWX A
; zui'l'KI.IN
lrt.l'ii(lliiKriiileni Watch Hid
-,! lnlliiU " ,UM w,Ul
! jitihAlrcriilt Hatterles, iu llcavena
Alt Ugh'1 VV w',,, Httirci.lljtiil-.
ntfrf.. o Hl,l Hiibnurlncii.
Otter War News.
iVitd J'fcsn Service
LONDON, April 1. Tho udmlrnlty
uionncw tlmi 2S were killed and 40
toumlea In H'o raid by llvo ZoppolliiH
lot night. Ono or tho aircraft w
Motlbt down by antl-alrcrnft baiter
lnind fell l tho TlmiiicH ostuary.
ike ertw surrendering.
Thousands of peoplo wlliteiuvod tho
.ttieki. an tho searchlight, wore
in4 unon tho ZeppelliM. Tbo poo
I IBHiBBBBbS
I BBftfcBBBBBa I '
H bbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbS $
H bbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbV r
LBBBBBBBBBBil Si
fAta BBBBBBBBBBBBBB flj
BB.BBBBBBBBBB67W
(QUESTION OF CITY
BUILDING ROAD TO
Is Dentist a Modern
Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde?
GOO
N THE BALLOT
fjroi
(Piirnil Clinrh lt(iic.
(.Iciiornl CliarlcH Roqups Ih tho now
ti'iit mlnlatm nf PrnnrA Ifn linu Ink
am wtro curious, but not alarmed. J en tin; plnn of General Onlllcnl. who
Tat Zepp)ln strucK uy mo uruwu una just given over mo omco.
iMIh wu closely watched by all. It t General Charles rtoqtiu was chiefly
twclearly Illuminated by the aearch- known before the wnr as tho fnthcr of
Ikjkti, and her crew could bo aeon French military avlntlon. For (several
NHMtcty working to retain control ' year ho wan Inspector ccnornl of tho
of ,tlit collapsing dirigible aa It foil, nvlntlon ervlro, unil It cotiBlderod to
Kk ibelli bunting all around It. hnvo dono inoro to rIvo France an efll-
Tae airmen dropped 74 Wombt. Ono'clunt aviation service than any other
leak killed a family of three and man In France. It In noteworthy that
wiMded toren others.
Thu (uctloii of the city hullilliiK a thereby saving from 70' conta to $1
trunk roml to Hhlpplngtoii. with per yard forthlrflrapdrtant muterlal.,
branch road connecting thl. trunk Ihla, heaald, wo4ld njfcan a tavlng of
from $2,000 to J8.00J).,
with the boat landlne unil with Poll- ' ' w,wt
, , The question of a 'municipal dock
ran City will be put up to tho prop. mucb v ihegf, (,uySi
urty ownore of Klamath Falls May 1 Johnson further suggested that lib
Tho Wcctlon on this auoatlon will be might bo able totget n' desirable dock
held In connection with the rcBiilar e on the Upper. Lake front for the
election, but a separate ballot box city free of costrlf the road was built
... . ,, through, worth, at preaent valuation .
will ,e ustHl for thoHo voting upon the (wm $1500 tQ , 00 A gt) ,,...
hlKliuny question tber gQvlug suggested! was the dedlca-
Thlx wns decided tiiion nt a rousing lion of several lots'Jfo the city by'
mcotliiB hold In the city hall last means of which ho road route could
night, whon tho following report by t altered to ellrjMnaep-heavy grading
the ways and oinuns committee was and fills.
unanimously adopted? These, JohnsSi-aald, he was posl-'
Your committee reports In favor tlvo ho could.secdre,veffectlng a saving1
of u sixteen-foot, hard surface trunk,'" H' cty abctut-18.000. Further-
rond of either hltullthlc. oil macadam morc o stated thafj he has positive
or concrete road to Shlpplngton. This assurance from, a'i San Francisco
road to begin at the end of tho hard ""'' thr.l. he f Uke the warrauU j
surface rond on Delta street: thence a tP0 c,lf IOT"no Pavement ai
par.
Johnson's statement was heartily
applauded, and fhls'js. felt by many
to be a most favorable argument for
tbo project. Another irresistible ar
gument was that of President H. D.
down elthor Pnrk or III ystrccts to
the bluff, a dlstanco of approximately,
one nnd onc-hnlf miles.
"Wo further recommend two
branches from this main trunk road,
constructed In a substantial manner
or rock, the tlrsl branch to go up Hol-i
Mortenson.of thQ-Pellcan Bay Lumber
'tho French aviation aorvlco has been
or rock, the Urst branch logo up Hoi-1 ' . 'V, . . , ,. -.,
. ..... comnany. who pointed out the fact
nhlrd street thence north four u.ocks, t.hameful condltlou
thenco west one block to First street, J - , th
the subject of sharp criticism within "" '"""'""!"W-. .i,! Falls. It U neceeaary: for the company
- .t. ..... ..., mnni.. b.i , nonn,u,Blu,u" "' "" "" " ""'" " , m.lnln Btnr hotel nnd houses
- iiiu I'tinw on tMvimoi sn v .w...
. '
VtiUA lri Horvlca "
--- - - i .-...-
PARIS, April 1. It la announced Dcsnard, deputy minister of wnr for
Oat the Germans by two beayy at' aviation, was driven to resign not
Ueki havo gained a foothold at Vat. long ago. Goncrnl Roqucs Is a Breton
of tbo Mucso, they bombarded by descent. .
illatt alght, but' there wer no. In-! . : : '. ..."? v- .
tutrratucka. f SOCIETY to AUCTlbyoFF
Artillery duels are being fought all q pRIB CTtEATIOXS
tkreBgh Argonne.
branch to bo constructed of the same
material as tho county road.
The second branch to commence at
Shasta street, and thence following
to maintain a store, hotel and houses
for rental, for tai convenience of the
employes. He elated that it is prob
able that the miil will put on a night
crew, which la rtae same aa aaaing
lilted Prci. Service " UulloJ VM Sorvlco
PETrtOORAD, April 1. It I. an-j NEW VOnK, April 1. Two nun
iMBCtd that 116, Including mouy'drod per-foct-ly luv-n-ly Paris gowns
.. . -. . . t- .1.. .,! t. n...,lnnn.l rft 1 1 ll. lllffhftflt
RuMUn hospital ship Purtugal was fominlno bidder at tho American Amuro reports favorably upon it,
"" "i..., . crew, waicn uai muiu aa buuiub
the road along Link River to the boat Bnthnr twin hh'd. uwrniU to the
iaridlugs.Tf drstance.of ibout-oneJjalf clty.s indnatrle7?eSit 4f1tklalai
mue. 'done, It will be necessary to .build
"It is further recommended that in more houses at Pelican City, unless
order to finance this road construction 'the road la improved ao (hese people
city warrants bo issued for not to ex-'can travel back;-and forth from the
coed 120,000. main part of town, living here, 'and
"ViMti inmtnlttAn nnnnlntod In in- uiirtiiHfncF'lliAlvwiiMiAV hA"A
vcstlgate the legality. otaftorncedc -Jlfhere-'no-iaduiU'res' here,
wnat would you ao 10 are. mcmi
iilmarine-l la the Black Sea yetter
dya. No warning was given.
BERLIN, April 1. Russian casual
tie In the offensive along tho front
beli by General von Hlndenburg are
oflclally estimated at 140,000. The
Davolenslvo la apparently exhaustod.
Oirman aviators yesterday downed
two French aeroplanes. Two of tbcee
ftll Inildo tho Gorman lines.
o
WASHINGTON, D. C April 1.
Csrmany has promised an Immediate
Investlgntlon of an alleged renewal of
iqbaarlnlng of unarmed ships carry
ll American passengers.
-aBggflitaTa-vk
BHKPISelBBBHsi
IbbIbbbbH
Bh BBnHsHLBiBBBJBHu-f fyJtfMP&BM. gH
r BjLwHli f,- rV 4lsX !' V'- Vv;?'-iB9BBBM SBJ
I lMlwBBBBBaB
VILLA IS SAID
1 TO 8E CAUGHT
BY U. S. TROOPS
SO fXFIRMATIOX IS MADE BY
OFFICIAM
f
Iny Humor to Tola BaTect Ave
Heard Ib the Border Toirai Ware
Service WHh CairanatsUa la Basal let
Be Very Vaaity Teeny, IaeM
glble Story, Caaaet Be' aVcraretf
AaTea.
EL PASO, April 1. Unconflrmed'
rumors that American force capture
Villa at MInaca yesterday are current
at Chihuahua City; General Gavira. ,
said the Information came freta Gen
eral Gulterrex, who reporta that the
wires to MInaca are put of order;
with no confirmation of the story ob
tainable. .
- CarranzIsU officers discredit' thai! .
rumor that 1,600 VUturtaa ,:weat of- n
Chihuahua City are prepared for aa1
attack. " f
Numerous reporta are emrreat here
that Villa was captured, after
Guerrero battle. Fort Bits thinks
these reporta are all jMeiafri. ' '
General Funston thinks Colonel
Dodd la closely pursuing the VllUaUa. .
Latest adrleea axe that Vm waa aket
Sin the knee In the iret, battle at
Guerrero.
s:
kr.
thei
i. J
DH. ABTHVn WAItBEX WATTE
Dr. Arthur Warren Walte, dentist, made by Dr. Walte to Diatrict Attor-
has confessed to the poisoning of John - U::
... t nauv. at,aii vw - -r ..
E. PecK, an agea wemiiuy uiu w . .
nrnnH fiftnldfi. Mich., and Mra. Pecki
" ....
H;utt. t. ri-ttAt hlo hnmo In an AX-
UII lrUC7 w. -
;,
H
pensive apartment house In New York
City. DrCsValte's wife wai a'daugh:
ter of the Pecks, and waa entitled to
half their fortune. Arsenic was found
in the'body of Mr. Peck
'pltal, where he la under arrest
charged with the murder' of Peek,
when asked by Mr. Bwann If he wian
ed to make any statement, paaaed.one
hand -over- blaeyea jnd
vaguely:
i.rtu t. .h'awa. Ua AtA I1
iru. ua ai i. w .! .
NEUTRALS OPPOSE
amBstaa'tt aiii imV.ffc
M ., ,. j
VIIKHIVIHK 1IIIN V ..
miniHHn im flUi Uv
I W------.- , --.t"-'
f 1
... aH
v. V & 1
i"1? r
'.:- -ssj
t -",M
S
"W'Stv,..
.. - -
rrtofffcm tLtlKUrAnan-Tri! TtM
I '"w "-"- - - "'"'"-
A&
'it
':S . 22 1
'" ,.! imp. tU.I
r?- ' S
,ir .5
ii v ? a
il
Merrllllto Visits.
F. C. Klabzuba Is
on a business trip.
In
To assist Klamath county faraaera
In Mttlng the best roturns out of
tllr ranches, H, F. ICoyeu, farm man
'oment demonstrator fot the oxfro
Ion department of tho Oregon Agri
cultural College and the Unttod States
Department of Agriculture, will make
'rm survey of Klamath county.
Mr. and Mrs. Keyea will arrive, to
norrow night. The work, to be car
jrt on with County Agriculturist
H. Roland Glaisyer will take about
ree weeks' time, and durla? that
'period, about loo' farms will be sur
Wd. A report upoa eaoh farm will
w rendorqd later by the expert.
-. work to bt,1 wrried on
throughout Oregon by Mr, Keyea. In
the countlos whoro he haa made hla
'Porta and recommendations, the
waers who have followed hla ad
V tl?ve r,ported rat Improvement.
There li way1 of grouping the en-
vv or a rarm that fa mnu nrnnt.
u any other way; that is.
1 a certain moat proltable acre-
.. ..!... i inM.nnr. hnm tndnv. "Wf. thorcforo recommend a sop- oueriad the aneaker. "You would
iiiiui mil iiujuii uuitvia hviv . --- -., m
om. n,..n, ra rrnniinm "nnrfoct .'iiiit.. hnllot to be voted on by prop-'more than llkellr be glad to raise
.imoma ,iiinnii hv tho most oxclu-'crtv owners only nt tho goneral elec-lmoney to donatealtea for tho mills,
u. ,..., .-.n -. - ...'.. .. ... . .. . .L. . .
slvo Paris modistes. They wore con- tl.m lo no neiu way i, ivo. ir you wui ao meBe ididkb ioc pi&uw
ri.io.i hv ntieii nocletr women as Tho matter will bo prepared-by Po-.before they come here, why won t you
Mrs. W. K. Vanderbllt, Mrs. E. II. lleo Judge Loavltt and City Attorney give n.llttle consideration to the
Harrlman Miss Helen Frlck. Mrs. 'dioesbcck for tho attention of coun- plants already here.the planU coming
rt.i... i xfiiu Mra. Hnrrv l'avnc ell Monday nlnht. preliminary to plac- in and buying their altee? Tho pay
Whltnoy, Mrs. Joseph H. Cboate Jr., Ins the matter botoro tho property roll at Shlpplngton and Pelican City
.t .i.Vu Tim nrnpdj will co to'ownors. In the meantime, a big cam-iu about $50,000 a month; why don't
,.u.oi iiw. fund for Amorlcan Ambu-'palgn Is to be carried on to bring the you benefit yourselTea by taking ad-
lanco relief work on the Europoan' taxpayers to reallzo tho necessity of ( vantage of the fact, that these con
battlofields. tho city's building this road. cerna are hero, and provide a way for
m . a publicity commltteo, consisting of these people to got to town?"
.Fred Houston (chairman), K. Sugar-J Mortenson also pointed out the'fact
from Merrill mnn, Philip J. Slnnoth Dr. E. D.'that with a good road from here to
Johnson, L. F. WllleU, Fred Fleet tho mills, practically all of the era-
'riH O. W. Robertson was appointed ployes would reside here, thua making
gby Chairman Hall to begin a cam- n Increased demand for sales and
jl palgn for the success of the project, rentals of moderate priced cottages.
lQll,Tbo committee will outline definlto Among the other speakers were Dr.
Till plans nt tt mooting nt 10 o'clock Moij-Le. D. Johnson, who pointed out the
't, lay morning., i value of tho road Improvement to
Thnt tho Klamath Development Klamath's tourist attractions; w.
rompnny will do a big part In jthe paui Johnson, who reminded thegath
hulldlng of the road,, which Is to be efljhg that tho K. D. Co. haa always
known as tho Municipal Highway ,-was done moro than lta share In putting
ivldouced by S. O. Johnson, president .through lmprovementa here, often
f ,i,n onmnnnv. in a talk In which he hurtlne Its interests aa a result, and
(told of tho company's peculiar sltua-jthat many had the wrong spirit In the
Some enterprises, such as poultry itlon regarding tho 'Project, and of fpplngton proposition by attempting
iJSn may easily be made profit. , what ho thought ho could bring about to saddle n project, .benefitUng the
Mn'BiTxiZUlrZiaU to through hie company to materially ro- whole community upon th. .boulder.
able aa swo unos, yei uio ,,,,. ,,, rnat nf co8tructlon. of the development company;- Fred
TTrrTSoLTZ.S Johnson cited the fact thai the 'Houston, Alex Nosier. J. B. Bwanaen.
Z'oZat'on which (Klamath Development company pays w.Cj. .Robert. J. H. Hamilton. K.
tJr0rofafar
Spends. From these It is usually city taxes -W' ' U
UlT (IIIIUI av mw .- . -
ii,ttn hnrt man whom I haven't been- in aoaelal ieaslon to consider the sink
i -- . i - ---. - . . i. . - - ...
Statements Indicating that he be-' able to get na or. unui now no ua uig oi ueiHoanus. or a- ,',
lieved he was possessed ofca dual per- i it all. Mr... yalte known, ho wxl nave .marine-jrheattaaUeaiajt- wfMm"
aonalltr the "wicked one of which Jm- j'trled to get rid of him. I don't kaow serious, and the parllameat meeting
polled him to murder his wealthy wno n waa ne toio mo .wMrewi.Biwj.
. . m -k .a rA.au L'innt wr -w iw ainn ruiww naaar-iai . r
father-ln-law and airs. recK werenruw ojyt.
it
Si
' army and nary ollciai..
J.B.McCARTER IS
NEWFtRE CHIEF
to hoot-drawn, instead of the motor
driven pleasure vehicles this spring,
'horse dealers. said today.
They added that the raising price
jot gasoline had nothing to do with
the change.
MAYOR APPOINTS FORMER MEM
BER
PARTMENT AS HEAD OF THE
Farm Management Agei
Will Make alurvey Here
"' thon
there li ,
ww praiaui nerv
ate for Ai,h ...w '.a '. .. .
mm proportlea oflneome fro many
one source. v
possible to dotormlno not only mo
,rnnit noints In n system or larnuna.
kni nun its doflclonclos. Tho latter
Magee Win. PHse.
E. E. Magee of Underwood's phar
macy keeps up his prise winning
OF FAST COLORADO DE-j stunts. This morning', mall brought
him a check from the Nyal Co., ror
the best, limerick submitted In their
new PAID DEPARTMENT . rent contest
MADRID, April 1. The Saajtlan
nlntatry today voted to protest to
Germany the deaths of Spaniards on
k...j !.& " - flMmlak 'aMUllu .t3fj
report the Suaees wm torpedoed. , y-yVR
vt-iiMd
T -Tl-?
.t.fVJ.',
-i?.!l'S,S;-.-l
jfeiaswi
To District
H. v P. Theasaj and
fut.ka,aai t mm iri IaT 4W
Bpoaaae u aueaa a ooia-u .ay wmkrsi'f
trlctmanagera for the'BatwMiJBW:
tng Poat. They will be away .ter;5a.;f'
week, and during tnetr aneepce. wh-;
fmul TTaurr will attamd to'tliaar. diT J
ithtf'
Mayor J. B. Mason todayappolnted
J. D. McCarter as chief of the Klam
ath Falls fire department. The other
members will be appointed In a short
time, according to Maaon. .
McCarter Is a brother of Patrolman
McCarter, and haa.been a member o't,
tho Greeley, Colo., fire department
which holds several national records,
for volunteer firemen's performances,'
Its record for placing hose and ladder
work giving It the distinction of be
ing the fastest' .volunteer fire depart
ment In the United States.
McCarter waa highly recommended
to the local authorities by the officials
"X -Tr?1
iiTerwa.cuiiovuwua.au;. .' ' - :
: -j."3
z "zz EiS'feS
- . km L r LW m -- -r' - i-V'?'ttI
larrnc in i.fp i invinu
lm
Outlined
Mm
-PH Wlfft".
STf'S't. $
1 i!l'(
i.H?
&.l
.t&3&
ff-A
By J. 0. 43AMP
Project Maaager
that It would therefore pay a
sharo of tho tax levy to pay off
big,
srrsoo
oTJSm 337 farms Huc-'that tho road would be a dlrec benefit
cos?is nSarlSy do endent on three 'to tho Klamath Development compa
bS,11SS12S. Theaear, (1) tho , ny's Property, Wl th.
Ize of tho farm business; (2) the ncitner ngnis, u, ---;-
'". .... i ,i- r.i,.rn. with no prospect for a aale of this
a rr imb riiiiv iiiiti liiu ------ -
the -r . mi 1 l
w ani iviorc v csscib
Than Daniels Asks
United Press Service
WASHINGTON. D,
C,i April 1.
crops and the return.,-,, - J'"; 1" WnD". The ''big nav," advocatea in th. house
. . 1 1 .. Akn nnnniv nrni in ii uum buvii - -------
nor animal, ropresenm-K i m ..::. '"J'...mMti. .o ., to. committee on naval anaira plan
vi rnm iiiihihrhh: jiiiii awi j ,-- w
111 LlltJ inilll MMwaaaw -
Versity of tho business.
iz:zaroo
U efhclent In these three respect. Is , he rac tna no -----"" ' tloMU ,ncre0 in Uft numbir ot tlu,
rarms, -' -.:. r ... ": . ....mi... v..ui.
nf on,ira. ! ward the main part of Klamath Falls,
. .-... ,.
their influ- a question oi many yours
The reclamation commiaslon haa
submitted to the Klamath Drainage
ih,.i..4 ih AWMAtt nf 1ail In tliai
of the Greeley department aa to hla i.ower Klamath marahee. the, follow
ability, Initiative, characterand r'epu- !nK proposition, whereby the control
tatlon. . of the gale, in the .trait, will be lv-
Last night marked the end of the ,m t0 iuo drainage diatrict:
volunteer department, and ex-Chief. pri
Payment of rSS.BOO by your
a. the construction cost in-
-nnnrnllV lUCCeS.fUl. TllOSO
that are excellent In npne of these ro--.pects
almost universally fall. Those
deficient in one or two may succeed,
but, their chance, of success are great
ly lessened,
Wakefield has moved hi. family ana ,ii8,ricl
effects from the fire chief 'a headquar-' vo!fti la adapting the government
ters. The beautiful silk flag, which j gy8tem to serve the Van Brimmer pro
waa a much priced treasure of the J jt. This payment la to be made at
volunteers, was prewnted by them to tne tme tbe contract la executed.
the Sprague Chapter, Woman's Relief j Becon(fAnnua! payment, ofoper.
Corp.. ' ,ti0B Md aaaintenaace chartea tor
""" aupplylng the Van Brimmer system
............ n,omAviBi.iKi throuah the nroiect'canala. These
nriltuiai nwimnn .i -- -- - .-
to demand congra to authorise eight j ABTO ro ZZ 2 ' KS2
flrot line oattiesnipa inuuyear, in.io.u -7 - " . . f on--lm- -.-
.... .. r.rnmm.Brfjul hv flMretarv ' niBPMnna THI& aPRINfl t the actual OOet Ot OnenUBC BUM
;:.r,V Vi,.v ai.a .dvoeit. nrOUor. ; v , mainuinlng the carriage oaaaU la-
l iuiivv, ,
1 Third Wavers ot all damage, re.
de-,.u!Uag or that
closure, to
half of the dUtrletf. the Yaa
and other rlpartw ewaera. ;ThIe
... ... - - ..,... J ...o... Q.I.A
vicinity, and said, It was more '"-" .... -u. -" '-i "Tn i ra.
pMs.blo that ho could perfect an ar.n- n.;
r-TZZZ2 ,::::: m IT ttat the l.-l.... aub.'thorohhre4 mm horm urta
lOr UBO IU v - - - . .iAj , .u. t,,.w.h- A.ll 1Kh
secured at cost,
Imi . royaltlee. etc.. mltfed la the noun. by April If th, the laet month ladicatee a woratea
vara wt w inpai. t
t may rewr freai eh
eteete4 byer eeher
'elude, marshlands ia-OretoeaeAthaV-W-'
IHS SfC&IVCMD MiV VU WS .ISSfS,,Sl.lBM,-,SW.jVJ.-.
district and delivered to the veelsusia.,
Uon nrvlce without ,ctfttlWK.E
the' gate.. ' . ''1
Fourth Repayment ot eaieMHarekiy,
made by the United Statea tn'itpMi
with vlanr tn isaxlaaaatlnai.ar Bua.'L'
marah laa.de. Thaae -oata are v BB4?rr
by tbe.board ot review at M,IH.ife;
Thl. charge, plua 8;5,f ietlie;M'
UIUUVQU VII aW ItWgVeagt-li bb-bbbbb--; BBappaaaBBB"
the district land, 'an&asajaitfc -
. . ... aj ---',J - "f-'-v
lana.,. m au i,afMirtB,yBiBr.w . -
l--l...lJ.:.'.'.WM''.j".vii;.tt.aaj: , "'
IBM, ,BUHP .fF-P'".f,""-T!Ji "S
eseaeei v" "W .7 7rw.Tf !' U T . r 7 '
nart charcaahle to the dlatrfet te affc- y
.J r..l jTi ift.-.Al.'l.''.U. .M.M Mrf
repaia uimar uta wra , in 1 1 n
i -ii-'k.a T'WH ''i'-.? i. A' "j
of tha raeiaat.ttoBxUesgea AssV-1
at.' asat ha'ata laA aal4 aW'akakVt'i
,.-' of th.wattB- irf tae'kaaSiV
17 '..-.. .., iu.'Eiikia" .u..
roaaiWIU.BUl.BaBBIBpi, 'Bl
d" A .ne', iawstfsma"Bm "gf a
tawteWeMM
.f1?
vnw UUPM
-S-rr
SW
"-
fJPfsw
.WOSPt lWrt
' : Vt .r-v
Jti
.rtl
;ai
-f. i
'il
ri
.!
-.-.- -5 tfw
