I O W1
land
and1,
le£C
(The Intelligent, common sense
-workingmen prefer to deal with the
problems of today, with which they
must contend if they want to make
advancements, rather than to deal
with a picture og a dream.—Gom­
pers,
Most Important Session Since
Time of -'Roosevelt Award'*
\r. Is Begun.
MOTHER JONES ON HAN0
1
HELPS WORKERS' CAUSE
Miners' Union Presents Its Claims
And Refutes Operators'
Claim.
NEW YORK, Feb. 24.—The most
Important conferences between coal
operators and miners since the fam­
ous "Roosevelt award," began here
Monday.
Before the end of the week sessions
will be in progress involving the de­
mands for increased wages on thou­
sands of miners in the bituminous as
well as the anthracite fields.
The conference of anthracite oper­
ators .in.l miners' representatives be­
gan today. "Mother" Jones, the angel
of the miners, is here, and will be
found close to a second conference
chamber when discussions between
bituminous workers and operators
are resumed Thursday.
Only One Increase.
The latters sessions were adjourned
from Mobile, Ala., as the conferences
so overlapped that it was necessary
for officials of the United Mine
"Workers to arrange for a joint meet­
ing here.
Anthracite miners have not been
given .m increase in wages since the
Roosevelt award, and with the call­
ing of the conference today President
"White of the Mine Workers, and
other union representatives are pre­
pared to put up a strenuous fight
for the men.
The cperators have gone to the
•'people" with their arguments
against a wage increase through an
extensive advertising campaign. They
have declared that an increase of
wages to the miners will mean an ad­
vance in coal prices to consumers.
Gives Operators liies.
President White denies that condi­
tions in the anthracite industry were
correctly outlined by the operators.
The leader of the miners declares
that railroads, owning the anthracite
mines, have realized ."huge profits."
In addition "fo'TKe* demand for in­
creased wages, the miners seek an
eight-hour day and recognition of the
union. Thirty-five representatives of
the miners' union are here for the
conferences, and representative oper­
ators from Pennsylvania, Ohio, Illi­
nois and Indiana are ready to present
their arguments against the demands.
What They Want.
The miners want 20 per cent more
wages, the mine run system and bet­
ter working conditions. The mine
owners say their profits are not
enough to warrant granting the min­
ers' demands and that if the de­
mands are granted tl^e price of coal
will go up 60 cents a ton to the con­
sumer, which will take about $23,
000,000 a year more out of the con­
sumer's pocket.
The miners reply that the war has
made so much business for the coal
men that they are making more
money than they ever did before.
Representatives of the allies and of
manufacturers in America are watch­
ing the situation closely and will do
.everything in their power to prevent
1
a big coal strike and the paralyzing
of business thereby.
See No Strike.
It is not believed probable that a
general miners' strike will be called,
but in view of the distance apart the
miners and operators seem to be on
the new agreement, men in a position
to know say it will be a stiff fight
with a strike not altogether an im
possibility.
Th= miners include in their de­
mands an eight-hour day with time
and a half for overtime and double
time on Sundays and holidays.
By James H. Maurer.
The plutes who plunder the people
of this country, evidently think that
we grownups have less sense than our
children. They are trotting "bugaboos"
daily in order to scare us into doing
what they want us to do—put the
shackles of militarism on ourselves—
and thus make it impossible for us to
gain our industrial freedom. They
give us a reason for spending the bil
lions on murder machinery, that we
need for education and decreasing the
hardships that most of us suffer, that
1 we are in danger of foreign "foes and
must be prepared to drive them back.
Their Real Reason.
If this was true—which it is not
it would mean that the upper class
of this country are afraid that the
same class of some other country,
I would interfere with ther privilege of
robbing us, and that they want us to
submit to further robbery by them as
well as offer up our lives, to prevent
foreign competition in robbery. But
this is not the reason that all the
powers of the plutocracy are enlisted
in this "preparedness" campaign.
They know that we are in less dan­
THE
Porto Rican Laborers Beaten
With Cutlasses As' Chattel
Slaves of South.
AMERICAN TERRITORY
RUN BY FEUDAL LORDS
Workingmen Who Dare to Rebel
Given Long Terms In
Prison.
WASHINGTON, Feb. 24.—Presi­
dent Gompers has received numerous
letters of protest from Porto Rico
trade unions against the treatment
government officials and employers
are according agricultural workers
who struck last month for better con­
ditions.
The letters are written in Spanish,
and all tell the story of brutality,
tragedy and woe in the lives of Porto
Rico workers.
The following English translation
of one letter—from Caguas, Porto
Rico—indicates the sufferings of
these workers, who are jailed, beaten
and shot because they dare strike:
Corporations Rule.
"The islands of Porto Rico are
being governed by large corporations
that radiate throughout the country,
and those practically dominate and
dispose of the earth and of its serv­
ices, the unfortunate day laborers.
The countrymen here have no homes
and must live submitting to the ca­
price of the feudal lord who allows
them to live on his land, like in the
medieval ages, with the condition
that those pariah (outcasts) cannot
and would not dare to raise their
looks to the face of their masters,
and if they should dare to ask for
any improvement, or declare a strike,
then be thrown out of the hut in
which ihey live and must wander
without bread and shelter.
"Now in January, 1916, the coun­
trymen were again reduced to the ne­
cessity of striking, asking larger
wages and less hours of work, be­
cause the patrons did not accept the
arbitration proposed by the departr
ment of labor, and the attacks and
the killings has been repeated.
Union Offices Raided.
"At Bayamon the house of the free
federation (the office of the union)
was attacked by the police meanwhile
the strikers were holding a peaceful
meeting. Various of the strikers and
federatirmists were thrown into
prison, sentenced from 10 days to two
years in prison. The manifestations
of the strikers were dissolved, a«T
the poiice attacked them and dis­
persed them with shots.
"At Rio Grande they were badly
beaten, and hardly are they permitted
to cros3 the public highways without
being in danger of their lives. The
strikebreakers go about with knives,
protected by the overseers, foremen
and public police.
"A manifestation that was going
from !Loiza to Rio Grande was dis­
persed by shots and cutlasses, result­
ing in two deaths and many wounded
seriously.
"In Juana Diaz the police killed
one and wounded "18."
Conditions in Porto Rico have been
protested by recent conventions of
the American Federation of Labor, to
which these workers are affiliated.
President Gompers has submitted
these protests to the proper authori­
ties at Washington.
AGITATING FOR EIGHT
HOURS IN SHIP YARDS
PHILADELPHIA, Feb., 24.—Presi­
dent O'Connell, of the A. F. of L.,
metal trades department, addressed a
mass meeting of ship yard workers in
this city last Saturday. This Is the
initial agitation in a campaign for
eight hours in the Atlantic coast ship
yards. All metal trades and other in­
terested unions, together with the A.
F. of L., will assign rtpresentatives to
assist in creating a shorter work day
sentiment.
ger from being robbed by a foreign
ruling class than at any time in our
history. If we are in as little danger
from a foreign enemy as we are from
our internal foe, the plutocrats, we
would be a very happy people. First,
the capitalists see continued safety for
themselves and their plunder if they
can arouse an intense nationalistic
feeling among the majority of the
people on whose backs they ride.
They agree with the Empress Cath­
erine of Russia that 'The only way to
save the people is to substitute na­
tional passions for social aspirations."
Eye Single to Profits.
Second, the dominant group of
capitalists in this country see immense
profits for themselves in the manufac­
ture of murder machinery and in the
financing with the peoples money, of
great war preparations.
Thirdly, they dread the active mi­
nority of the people who, at times,
succeed in arousing portions of the
working class to revolt against the
robber class who ravish the people of
their rights and rob them if their sub­
stance.
A large military institution means a
power at hand to crush any group of
the toilers who revolt against the rule
of robbers or who try, through strikes
to decrease their poverty and better,
their working conditions.
VOL. 23., NO. 28 DULUTH AND SUPERIOR, FEBRUARY 26,1916.
One of Duluth's best known lawyers said one day
after inquiring how the referendum petition was going
"It will not make any difference how many names
you
secure for your petition there are forces in this town who
will see to it that no referendum proposition on the sale
of the armory gets to the people."
We though at the time that our lawyer friend was
putting it rather strong. We did not think there was
any force in Duluth stronger or more powerful than the
people. We believed if there was any doubt about the
construction of the city charter in the application of the
referendum the court would give the petitioners the
benefit of the doubt.
If the matter at issue were but the passage of an oi
dinance to determine police regulation, the people would
have a remedy, if the court held that a referendum peti­
tion was insufficient, to repeal the ordinance by the ap­
plication of the initiative provision of the charter.
In the matter of the armory ordinance every bridge
is burned behind the people by Judge Dancer's decision.
The title to the armory will pass into the hands of the
Shriners. It will do no good to initiate an ordinance to
repeal the armory ordinance because it is doubtful if any
court would hold that the Shriners could be bound to
deed back the armory after once securing title thereto.
So it is indeed unfortunate for the referendum, aye,
for commission government, that Judge Dancer decided
that the petition for the people's veto of the sale of the
armory was insufficient and could not be made sufficient
under the ten-day provision of the charter.
The armory ordinance was passed Jan. 5. Within 30
days of this date petitions containing the names of 1455
qualified electors were filed with the city clerk in pro­
test against the passage of the ordinance.
These petitions were filed as required by section 52
of the city charter, which reads in part as follows:
"No ordinance passed by the council shall go into
effect before 30 days from the time of its last publica­
tion, except when otherwise required by the general
laws of the state, or by the provisions of this charter.
"If during said 30 days a petition, signed by quali­
fied electors of the city equal in number to at least ten
(10) per centum of the total ballots cast at the last pre­
ceding general municipal election, protesting against the
passage of such ordinance, be presented to the council,
the same shall thereupon be suspended from going into
operation and it shall be the duty of the council to re­
consider such ordinance, and if the same be not entirely
repealed, the council shall submit the ordinance, as pro­
vided in Section 50 of this charter, to a vote of the elec­
tor _of the City,ge,itjier at the next general municipal
election, or at a special election called for that purpose,
and such ordinance shall not become operative unless a
majority of the qualified electors voting on the same
shall vote in favor thereof. The provisions of Sections
50 and 51 of this charter, respecting the forms and con­
ditions of the petition, and the mode of verification, cer«
tification and filing shall be substantially followed, with
such modifications as the nature of the case requires."
There were over 13,000 votes cast at the last general
municipal olecttbn. The petition contained the names of
1455 electors, containing considerable more than ten
per cent of the total number of votes cast at that elec­
tion. Section 50 of the city charter, which is referred to
in Section 52, reads in part as follows:
"Within tn days from the date of filing such pe­
tition, the cleric shall ascertain from the voter's register
whether or not said petition is signed by the requisite
number of qualified electors. The clerk shall attach to
INCIDENT PROVES VALUE
OF COMPENSATION LAW
BEAVER FALLS, Pa., Feb. 24.—
The value of compensation legislation
was shown in this city in the case of a
workman who had the tip of his fin­
ger cut off. As injuries of this char­
acter are common, the employe signed
an insurance company release for $1.
Later the wound became serious and
the employe could not work. State
compensation officials ruled that the
release was illegal and ordered that
the employe. be given medical treat­
ment and half pay until he is able to
return to work.
Fourth, militarism teaches the many
to be obedient to the few. Holds up
•obedience" as a virtue. "Their's not
to reason why, their's but to do and
die," for the few live in luxury by do­
ing the rest of us and they do us be­
cause the majority of us do not rea­
son why."
Never Safer Than Now.
I have said that capitalists know
this counfry was never safer from
what they name a 'foreign foe" than
it is right now. No one would charge
that those who fool and rule us, lack
knowledge of what is going on in the
world. They know the true condi­
tions in Europe. They know that the
statement that I'm going to make is
true., They don't want you to know
it, however. That's the reason they
muddy all the channels of information
that they control. Here are the facts
that you should know:
Every nation engaged in this war, if
it stopped tomorrow, will be so ex­
hausted that it will take years to put
its people in the condition they were
before the war. Its government will
have all it can do to take care of its
internal. problems without taking on
an external one. The principal buga­
boo held up by the preparedness
group is a victorious Germany. Sup­
pose Germany does win. Whaa would
be her position/ and how iwould she
FOB SOCIAL JUSTICE. ECONOMIC -REFORM AND POLITICAL PROGRESS.
MACHINISTS DEMAND
AN EIGHT-HOUR DAY
PITTSBURGH, Pa., Feb. 24.—-Ma­
chinists employed by the Miller Saw
Trimmer company are on strike since
Oct. 7 last for an eight-hour day and
union conditions. This firm manu­
facturers the Miller feeder used on
platen presses, also the Miller saw
Trimmer, both machines being used
exclusively in the printing trade.
Printing Pressmen's union No. 64 is
assisting the machinists. The union­
ists quote company officials as de­
claring a shop of this kind should be
run on a nonunion basis:, with 99 per
cent specialists at $2.50 per day.
U. S. NOT IN DANGER OF INVASION BY OLD WORLD'S CRIPPLED NATIONS
menace this country? As conqueror,
you might think she would get an im­
mense indemnity in money as she did
ou of France in 1871 that this im­
mense treasure would enable her to
start out and conquer the world. So
say some of the bUgaboo bunch. How
can Germany get something that does
not axist in any nation now engaged
in this struggle? If she had won in
'.he first three months of the struggle
it might have been possible to plunl
der the conquered of their amassed
wealth, but now this wealth has been
spent to fight Germany.
To Make Good Their Paper.
Not only this, but the future has
been drawn on for billions with prom­
ises to pay, named bonds, or some
other fancy financial nickname. The
only way that Germany is getting her
indemnity out of Belgium is by stay­
ing there and taking it and this means
an army of occupation. She would
have a pretty big job cut out for her
if the allies lose and. she has to oc­
cupy all of their countries. Of course,
the supposition is as ridiculous as the
claim of the advocates of prepared­
ness, that .we-are in danger from the
Victorious side in- the European con­
flict.
Failing to get, indemnity in treasure,
as she .did in "1871, suppose- Germany
holds conquereg territory.- The more
said petition hip .icate, showing the result of said
examination. Jjr the clerk's certificate, the petition
is shown to sufficient, it may be amended within
ten days form vje date of said clerk's certificate. The
clerk shall, within ten days after such amendment, make
like examination of the amended petition, and if his
certificate shall show the same to be insufficient, it
shall be returned to the person filing the same, with­
out prejudice."
It will be noted by the above that the city clerk is
given 10 days from the date of filing a petition to ascer­
tain from the voters' register whether or not a petition
is signed by the requisite number of qualified electors.
The city clerk in this instance did not take 10 days
allowed by the charter, but he was satisified to make
a casual attempt at verification within the short period
of 24 hours, after which he notified the person who
filed the petition that the same was insufficient.
Later, friends of the petitioners took the pains to
again check the petitions and hundreds of signers were
found on the registration books who had moved from the
district where they last voted to the address given on
the petition. No fair or honest attempt was made by the
city authorities to give the original petition respectful
certification.
But the following provision of section 50 above
quoted seems plain:
"The clerk shall attach to said petition his certifi­
cate showing the result of said examination. If by the
clerk's certificate the petition is shown to be insufficient
it may be amended within 10 days from the date of said
clerk's certificate." Is this not plain English language!
Can it be given but one construction?
The petitioners, believing they were within their
rights and the requirements of the charter, went out the
second time to secure the signatures of qualified elec­
tors within the 10 day period above provided for, and the
names of 525 qualified registered electors were secured.
The first petition contained the names of 1455 qualified
electors. The total number of names was 1980. We are
at a loss to understand how any court could justly de­
clare a petition insufficient in the face of these facts.
Of course there is a higher court to which an appeal
may be taken, but who is there to make the appeal?
Mayor Prince is reported to have said in an interview,
"All parties concerned have had an opportunity of hav­
ing their day in court and the city should certainly be
willing to abide by the result." As a matter of fact only
the Shriners have had their day in court. The people
were not sufficiently represented in the strange proceed­
ings before Judge Dancer, nor were -the petitioners
given a fair opportunity to become a party at issue.
We have not a ghost of a chance in any court now.
So far as this case is concerned we are judically out­
lawed.
Without the initiative, referendum and recall pro­
visions of the city charter, commission government could
never have been adopted in Duluth. The people did not
imagine that the court would set up strict rules to pre­
vent their operation on slight technical grounds. They
believed when the veto power was taken from the mayor
and lodged with the people that they were getting some­
thing worth while, but alas, they have been deceived.
The rape of the referendum has been consummated.
So far a9 The Labor World is concerned we are not
ashamed of the part we played in our attempt to save
the armory for the people. Time, experience and riper
judgment, we are morally certain, will in the near fu­
ture vindicate our position and justify our contentions.
JI
JERSEY TRACKMEN OUT
WANT HIGHER WAGES
JERSEY CITY, N. J., Feb. 24.—
Several hundred trackmen and repair
workers on the Central Railroad of
New Jersey struck for a wage increase
from $1.75 to $2 a day and a reduc­
tion in working hours from 10 to 8.
Railroad officials affected a puz­
zled air when asked about the strike.
One of them stated that he "had
learned in a roundabout way that the
strike had something to do with pay."
When asked if $1.75 for 10 hours was
sufficient he ventured the opinion
that while the pay was not large "it
has been the standard for such labor."
she taxes the conquered, the larger
army of occupation she will need to
hold her place in a country inhabited
by an alien race. If history proves
anything it is that it takes at least one
generation to reconcile an alien race
to the rule of a conqueror and, unless
the conqueror is more beneficient than
the Prussian military oligarchy has
ever proven itself to be, it means sev­
eral generations.
Have Their Hands Full.
Any possible slant from which a
sane man or woman can look at this
matter proyes that the so-called vic­
tor in this "war will have his hands
mighty full with taking care of prob­
lems nearer home than on this side
of the Atlantic. You have heard that
Germany is financing this war with­
out asking the help of outside finan­
ciers. Her position prevents her fro'm
doing otherwise. But what does this
mean?
It means that she is commandeering
the vyealth of her people, even saving
banks deposits, in fact all of the
wealth in the name of patriotism for
the Fatherland and issuing promises
to pay "In the future
to
-t j-
rr
the holders-of
this fluid wealth.' She must get this
principal and interest ba,ck through
taxation, and do you suppose her peo­
ple, already
.great
sufferers bqth
in
pocket and lives," are* going to 'allow
*^V '*cy
4-3* **£T^ig^^ r.5»ri»
HBTOP.
Congressman London Introduces
Resolution For Commission
To Study Unemployment
HAS BIG SCHEME FOR
SOCIAL INSURANCE
Provides Employment Through
Development of Natural Re­
sources of United States.
WASHINGTON, Feb. 24.—A com­
mission of five members to study un­
employment and to draft plans for a
national insurance fund for the pay­
ment ot old-age pensions and unem­
ployment and sickness insurance was
asked in a resolution introduced this
week by Representative Meyer Lon­
don, only Socialist member of Con­
gress. It is the first measure of the
kind ever introduced in congress.
Representative London's measure
is in the form of a joint resolution,
and proposes that a national, insur­
ance fund be established "to secure
to the workers adequate means of
subsistence while involuntarily unem­
ployed, whether the unemployment
be caused by lack of work, by sick­
ness, or old age."
To Have Five Members.
The resolution does not elaborate
all the details for the administration
.of the plan, but leaves this to a com­
mission of five, to be named by the
President, who shall report to him in
September of this year. Two mem­
bers of the commission are to be em­
ployers of labor, two representatives
of organized labor and the fifth the
Secretary of Labor as chairman ex
officio.
The resolution also provides that
the commission shall minimize the
burden to be placed on the insurance
fund by providing employment
through development and exploita­
tion by the government of the na­
tion's natural resources. These works
would include development of water
power, mines, oil wells, reclamation
and the like.
lh a statement on the subject today
London said that between one-fourth
and one-fifth of the working popula­
tion of this country are unemployed
at one time or another.
-Six Million Idle Men.
"In the crisis ofl907-8," he added,
"there were about 6,000,000 unem­
ployed, and in the hard times of
1913-14 there were about the same
number out of work."
London also said:
"The resolution is particularly
timely in view of two recent phe­
nomena to be observed in Europe.
The first is the extent to which Eu­
ropean governments have been com­
pelled to socialize industries—which
action has enabled them to continue
at war despite the daily economic
waste of $25,000,000 in England and
a corresponding amount in Germany.
"The second is the likelihood that
if the war terminates very soon there
will be precipitated the worst eco­
nomic crisis which the world has
known, due to the blindness of those
who mistake for real and general
prosperity the sudden inflation in
the munitions industry.
"The market value of bonds, stocks
and other securities must be deflated
and then will come the demoraliza­
tion of industry and widespread un­
employment as an inevitable result of
deflation."
NASHVILLE UNIONS
WIN TEXT-BOOK FIGHT
NASHVILE, Tenn., Feb., 24.—The
trade union movement has won its
fight for the continuance of the free
text book system, which has been in
force during the past several years.
By a close vote the board of educa­
tion adopted a resolution requesting
the city commissioners to set aside
sufficient money to supply all chil­
dren in the grammar grades.
the Prussian oligarchy to ride them
wc-rse in the future than they have in
the past?
Are they going to continue tf allow
them to engage in destrustive war­
fare until the people are absolutely
bankrupted Perhaps you answer that
the people of Germany will stand for
anything, if it is for what they are
convinced is the good of the father­
land. The French nobles, in the end
of the eighteenth century, thought the
people of France would stand for any­
thing and continue to fight for those
who robber them, but they had a rude
awakening in the French revolution.
No German Bugaboo.
The Prussian military oligarchy is
riding to its fall right now, no matter
how this war turns out. But, whether
it continues to rule Germany or not,
the countries to the north, south, east
and west of it will keep Germany so
busy that no man or woman" now liv­
ing in the United States can possibly
fear to live long enough to see the
German bugaboo place its foot on the
soil of the United States.
If the allies win, they will have
their hands just as full with prob-.
lems on their'side of the water. We
witness the strange spectacle of Con­
gressman Gardner, Massachusetts, the
chief mediuip in producing foreign
spooks to
frighten
the people of the
The working class movement to
effective must be conducted
the workers themselves in the in
erest of the workers. It will not
r^AL
'he dominated by the so-called in­
tellectuals or butters-in.—Gompers.
TWO CENTS.
Federal Department of Labor
Reports On Gains Received
By Copper Men.
-it -v
RIGHT TO ORGANIZE
FINALLY CONCEDED!
Mexicans' To Be Paid Same
Wage As Americans-—No
Discrimination.
J!
PHOENIX, Ariz.. Feb. 24.—At the
request of Governor Hunt, Hywel
Davies and Joseph S. Myers, federal
commissioners of conciliation, have
forwarded the state executive a" list
of gains made by 5,000 employes in
the Clifton-Morenci-Metcalf copper
district, after a strike of several
months.
Before the strike these workers
were denied any form of organization
and during the strike the mine man­
agers refused to arbitrate. The com­
missioners now state that no objec­
tion is made to "a local organization
among the men," and that "the re­
sults indicate that about 90 per cent
of the employes are members of this
local organization, which ip repre­
sented by a committee of five from
each of the three companies."
Conferences to Be Held.
Hereafter committees representing
the workers will be recognized, and
the managers will hold monthly con­
ferences with the committees. "In
other words," say the commissioners,
"the latch string is on the outside of
the managers' office door, instead of
the inside, as claimed was the case in
the past."
Heretofore the rule has been to pay
Mexicans less than Americans. It is
now agreed that "the job will fix til*
wage, regardless of race." This means
a general advance of not less than 20
per cent to Mexicans and Spaniards.
A minimum wage for these camps
will be fixed on the highest basis of
any mining camps in the state re­
gardless of race. Wages of skilled
workmen have been increased so that
they will now compare favorably with
the best in the state.
All employes are to be re-employed
without discrimination, and guaran­
tees are made that foremen who ex«
plgit their workmen will be dis­
charged.
No More Race Prejudice.
"The psychological effects of the.
strike," continues the commissioners,'
"are shown in the elimination of.race
prejudices and the development of
brotherhood among the workmen,
which bears fruit in unity of purpose
and willingness to suffer and sacri­
fice for their common good.
"This brief outline indicates an
evolutionary condition that should*
under rane leadership on both sides,
bring about an era of good will that
means peace and prosperity to the
state at large.
It also emphasizes the uniqueness
of the strike, which has been con­
ducted on a different plane to any
western strjke of similar magnitude
and duration.
"It is also a pleasure and a privi­
lege to convey to you the personal
thanks of Hon. W. B. Wilson, secre­
tary of labor, for the invaluable as­
sistance and co-operation which you
so kindly extended to the undersigned
commissioners of conciliation, ap­
pointed by the secretary of the de­
partment of labor, to investigate and
conciliate the strike."
ANOTHER ECHO FROM
YOUKGSTOWN STRIKE
COLUMBUS, Ohio., Feb., 24.—The
state emergency board has voted $40,
000 to the militia on duty at Youngs
town recently. The largest single item
in this sum is the pay roll, $28,700.
The estimated total cost of the militia
is between $5,000 and $60,000, but
many bills, it is said, have not been
submitted.
United States, pleading from a plat­
form in New Tork for the people of
the United States to instruct their
representatives to back & program
that would allow us to compete with
England in naval armament.
England is compelled to keep &
way open to feed its people because
she does not and can not produce
enough to do the job, while in this
country we do not have to import a
single dollar's worth of any kind of
material to nourish. oUr people. And
this "statesman"-wants the peOple of
this country taxed to maintain a, navy
like England's! And to protect' us
against England!
Suppos England Wins.
Suppose England wins. That means
Germany loses. Then, for some rea­
son England turns7 on us. For what
reason a country, who is as depend­
ent upon us for food as she is, would
do this, I do not know. Maybe Gard­
ner does. Well, she has turned on us
and starts to conquer a country cov­
ering over 3*000,000 square miles of
territory What do you suppose Ger­
many is going to .do to her while she
has an opportunity like this? It may
be that some of the people are easy,
but I do not believe that,a majority
of them are so easy as to fall much
longer for this foreign bug4boo^%
"bunc."
-..ij'A
A
/I
