(:, --r-r -
Cuenmg
Crttger
NIGHT
EXTRA
NIGHT
EXTRA
r:c r
VOI;. 1I.-NO. 142
PniLADELPUIA, SATURDAY, ITJEBRUAttr 2(5, 101G.
Corimoni, 1010, n Tns rnsuo I.tMtE CouriNt.
PBIOJ3 ONE OENTT
GREAT VERDUN
GERMANS SMASH DOUAMONT;
FRENCH DEFENSE CRUMBLES
ICrown Prince Strikes Terrific Blow at
Stronghold Captures Strong Work
;Def ending Northern Approach to
Fortress Entire Line Broken
Teutons Win Desperate Battle Following Greatest of
Artillery Conflicts Other Forts Now Under
Fire of Giant Howitzers Paris
Admits Ground Lost
Tho great French fortress of
northeast and only four miles from
smashed the great steel and concrete
occupied the position by storm.
The evacuation of the fortress by
preceded by -the collapse of the whole
. du Poivro eastward tnrougn uczonvaux. This means a general advance
of the German line of more than a mile.
It is considered certain in view of Douamont's position that tho whole
' French force defending Verdun from tho north and northeast has been
driven back behind tho outer fort3 under the most terrible stroke delivered
bf iho Crown Prince since the Verdun fighting began.
" The fall of Douamont marks tho first breach in the forts of Verdun
and indicates that tho whole of the great French fortress is now seriously
threatened by tho Germans' mighty smash.
1 The latest Paris dispatches report terrific fighting in the snows along
the rjdgc of Cote du Poivro, only four and a half miles north of the French
- fortress, and about a half mile northeast of tho fortress of Douamont. Whole
regiments of Germans were madly assailing the French armored trenches
and redoubts on tho hills, 1200 feet above the wooded plain.
The village of Douamont, directly in front of the fortress, and tho
' villages of Louvcmont and Bczonvaux, as well as the intervening woods of
Vauche, were captured by the Teutons.
The French are retreating from their positions cast of Verdun along the
main road to Metz, the Germans assert
The Kaiser witnessed the fall of Douamont, the Berlin War Office reports.
From Douamont the Crown Prince can now bring hi3 heavy guns to
bear upon the forts of Do Vaux and De Tavanncs, immediately to the south,
, and upon Fort de Belleville, just outside Verdun and southwest of Douamont.
At the same time he can sweep tho entiro northern plain about tho city with
s fire which no infantry force can withstand.
, Capture of the position, it is considered almost certain here, was ac
companied by a frightful loss on both sides. No accurate estimates of the
losses on what may prove to be the war's bloodiest battlefield are obtainable
at this time, but it is accepted that casualties on both sides now total more
than 100,000.
BERLIN, Feb. 26.
, Cnaan troops havo smashed a hole In
4ffiiirwi((UWifcrftoef6RdinB,AVfttduiu-Mte.
J turlng Fort Douaumont, four milca north-
tint nf fhn rltv Itself.
Fort Douaumont la three mllea south
east 6f tho rldgo ot Louvemont, to which
position the French retired on Thursday
nltfit. and four mllea from Verdun. It
was captured by storm.
The capture wan made by tho 24 th
Kwrllnent of Erandenbureers. who, de-
BA iplteihe hurricane of shells and tho call-
J Inr Are of scores of French machine guns,
F. ' mltrtri fnnvnril In nn Iri-aalntlhln Wn.Vft.
In a hand-to-hand combat In tho works
the Germans drove their way to victory
with the cold steel.
Fort Douaumont waa regarded ns one
of the strongest of tho 21 forts which
ruard Verdun. It was built of steel.
etone and concrete, and waa defended
' with tho heaviest gun3 In the French
; Army.
t The cantuie of the fort onens tho way
t for an advance against tho sister works.
tort Belleville, Fort St. Michel and fort
Eouvlllo,
The charge which resulted In the fall of
Fort Douaumont waa mado In a blinding
snowstorm following a bombardment of
the worka by great 15- and 17-lnch suns.
For hours the monster howitzers of the
Germans had pounded the fort, the shells
tearing glgantlo ridges In the solid con
crete masonry and blasting tho steel tur
rets Into klndllnga.
Tho French guns replied and tho duel
Cf drum Are rocked the ground and shook
the air with Its thunder for nearly B0
Biles,
The following offlclol statement of the
'Continued on Tate Four, Column Three
THE WEATHER
Wo have Insisted, from time to time,
on the Importance of tho weather In Us
effect on the course of events, having dem
onstrated that rain and mud have decided
the Issue of battles as vel ns of football
tames. The great drlvo on Verdun la
proceeding in a bllzzartf. Those soft, driv
ing snowllakes may be of more moment
loan snqt and shell In deciding the out
come. Strange paradox; yet It would be
till stranger If cannon really did decide
the fate of nations. In the long run.
What does the Kngllsh poet say? "Can
non balls may aid tho truth, but thought's
weapon stronger ; we'll win our battles
with Its help; wait a little longer." That
Winds like paclflsm, or pacificism, or
whatever It Is. It also sounda like Con
gress, and others. But It's desperately
true. It is not because nen made wea
pons long ago and kept on developing them
that, great things happen, but because
tomebody, lpng ago, sitting In Borne grassy
Pok. watching the birds, had a thought,
which developed Into ideas, which devel
oped Into principles It Is for this reason
that the embattled thousands march to
Armageddon.
, We wH not in a hurry abandon our
'tH In thinking to worship the' erratic
xi. Action. "Thought la action."
FORECAST
For Philadelphia and vicinity
bjnerallu fair tonight and Sunday,
Wift lowest temperature tonight about
degrees; strong westerly winds,
For details see page 4.
LOST AMP FOUND
BOSTON TERIUKR -r- Lot. Boston terrier,
mall brindU. white pencil mark between
Wi. baby's, pet. lclnlty Ut and CbrUtlan
f -Woodland 1018 W Howard. .
i ' 'tJJWQb' COVEn It. pluah carrlat
!U sveuln of Feb. 15. Finder pleoto re
turn and raelve reward. 14T ti. tdnadowno
P-JLaiiiidown. ,
"AU.KT- Ulaclc wallet contalnln money and
faaonlo papers, alo enielofMj contalnlnc
bualoea, pTtSr.! bet U Or tita and Vf th-
Jfapoon aid Wed aft btl. i and 6 Ke-
Jrard for roturn to B (St Ldgr CantraL
JMSA
FFound. Udy'i wnlta scarf.
Qarrlclc
Tl
iro itljjy ovenlajr.
Call Cheiter t J.
Other It and found Ait on !' W
A
fAt the Earth's Cora," a New Serial by the Author
i 4
FORT FALLS;
Dounmont, defending Verdun on the
the city, has fallen. The Germans first
wall with their monster guns and then
tho French is believed to have been
French front from tho ridge of Cote
DTpiJMftlVTn D APRI?n
- JRll41iuUiNJULDiiAttliUii
' '
OUT OF ST. JOHN'S
BY COURT DECREE
Order Forbids Him to Conduct
Service in Any Episcopal
Church in Diocese Without
Bishop's Consent
CURBSTONE VESTRY WINS
The Iron fist of tho law today abruptly
ended tho squabble between tho "curb
stone" vestry of Old St. John's Kplscopal
Church, 3d nnd Brown streets, and tho
Ilev. George Chalmers Illchmond, tho sus
pended but militant rector, with an in
junction aimed nt the latter.
The Bev. Mr. BIchmond Is barred from
conducting church services In any Episco
pal church or Interfering with church
property by tho terms of the decree, which
waa entered today by Judge Ferguson In
Court of Common Plena No. 3. Tho de
cision, in the form of a preliminary in
junction, clothes the "curbstone" vestry
with power to summon the civil authorities
to prevent forcible entry of the church or
Interference with services.
Coming In tho wake of tho Bov. Mr.
Blchmond's declared Intention of with
drawing altogether from St. John's Church,
no drastic nctlon will bo necessary to en
forco the Injunction, It Is believed, The
suit arose when the rector rofused to
comply with tho ecclesiastical edict sus
pending him for one year and Insisted on
controlling tho collections on two Sundays
following hla older of suspension. The
suit for the control of the church property,
which was decided against tho "fighting
rector," Is now pending on appeal to the
Supreme Court,
Under the order entered by Judge Fer
guson )n the Injunction proceedings Mr.
Richmond Is restrained from retaining or
taking possession ot any of the church
property or from conducting services of
any sort In St. John s Church, except with
the written approval of Bishop Bhlno
lander, of the Ioceao of Pennsylvania.
IIo Is also restrained from In any way
interfering with tho management of the
church affairs and fom addressing any
congregation that may gather In the
church, without the consent of the
Bishop.
Finally, the Rev, Mr, Richmond Is en
joined from exercising any functions apt
pertaining to a minister of the Kplscopal
Church or from In any way attempting to
officiate or take charge of the services of
the church In any building or any church
In unison with the Kplsconal Church In
any capacity whatever without the con
sent in writing from the bishop having
Jurisdiction. The court also enjoined him
and his supporters, Robert U Keene,
William A, Kelly and James F. Bozarth,
or any persons acting under their orders
from stopping any person entering- the
Church. J
War Song Causes Fight
James Bell, 5112 Race street, was held
In f 9Q0 ball by Magistrate Beaton today,
charged with assault and battery on Mai
den Wldovltch, of HO North 17th street.
Both men are employed by tho A. 11. Fox
Gun Company, at 23d and Hamilton
streets, which firm Is making guns for the
Serbian Government. Bell, who Is a fore
man, heard Wldovltch humming a song
yesterday, and asked him what It waa.
Wldovltch said It was a Serbian hymn.
An altercation arose, In which Bell la al
leged to have struck Wldovltch, Bell
contends that it waa Wldovltch who hit
him. Magistrate Beaton concluded that
It waa tho function of the courts to decide
the matter, and held Bell.
WEDS NOBLE
W .Aink " I-MKdO. jaauem -Ar . I .1 jW. ?... ..!.
; .iV
4 ... . , ""i -
.-'' . rr"
v ' .-,..
.
9
i X .
P. ,
Miss Hilda Smith, graduate of lfryn Mnwr in 11)00, married Lount
Victor Starzenski, of Poland, after a contract was drawn up and
signed by both parties.
BRYN MAWR GIRL
WED POLISH NOBLE
BY CONTRACT MODE
Miss Hilda Smith Was Not
"Given in Marriage," but
Joined Business and
' Romance
MUTUAL' OBLIGATIONS
The Idea of marrlngo aB primarily a
civil contract. Into which a man nnd
woman enter on the equal terms that dis
tinguish nny other mutual agreement au
thorized by tho State, so fascinated Miss
Hilda Spaguo Smith, Bryn Mawr grad-
uato, while traveling abroad, that when '
she camo to be married herself she In
sisted on such a contract being made. I
Tlie:ounrVTCt6Ttarzenskl-dI'notJ0b-f
Ject; In fact, he rather liked the Idea, and
so the Unusual contract was drawn up and j
signed by tho high contracting pnrtlea. '
There followed a wedding which lacked
nouung or religious iorm, i.ie iuu vested
choir of tho Rev. Percy Stlckney Grant's
church, tho Church of tho Ascension, New
York city, singing the wedding music. This
was on November t last.
Yesterday tho secretary of Supremo
Court, Justice Scudder, of Brooklyn, went
to tho county clerk's olllce to file the
contract made by the Stnrzenskis. The
Justico had performed tho civil niurrlago
and signed hla name on tho back of tho
contract to glvo It legal force. Tho sec.
retary was told by an olllclal that tho con
tract could not be accepted. But Justice
Scudder advised him to look up the law
and precedent, and, after a search. It
was found that a marriage contract was
tiled five years ago.
GRADUATn OF BRV.V MAWR
The Countess Starzenski la the daughter
of the late Charles Sprnguo Smith, di
rector of the Teople's Institute, Now York
She Is a graduate of tho Veltln "School,
and In 1909 waa graduated from Bryn
Mawr. At the Main Line collego she waa
distinguished not only for good scholar
ship, but also for athletic activities. She
was a good tennis, basketball and golf
player, and was a daring cross-country
horseback rider. Her course at the col
lege was In history, poetry nnd economics.
After her graduation she traveled in
Europe with her mother. Her studies had
led her to a consideration ot the economic
and social aspects of marriage. She pur
sued research concerning the marriage
contract phase of the days of the Roman
Empire. It was this that had so nppealed
to Bernard Shaw that he wrote n wholo
Continued on l'aio Three, Column Three
UN FORTE DI VERDUN
PRES0 DAI TEDESCHI
Immense Legioni Lanciate al
l'Attacco della Grande For-
tezza Francese sulla Mosa
Mentre si parla dl una offenslva gene
rale au tutte le front! da parte degll al
leatl. I tedeschl hanno espugnato lino del
fortl plu' esternl della piazza di Verdun,
In Francla, coutro cul combattono du
clrique glornl. I francesi avevano ovacu
ato II forte poco prima In eegulto al rlpl
egamento dt una Intera llnca dl dlfesa
lungo un costone a nord della fortezza. 11
forte conquistato e' quello dl Douamont.
L'attacco pontro Verdun e" operato da Im
mense forzo tedesche prowlsta dl una
immensa quantlta.' dl artlglierla. o le per
dlte cha tanto i tedeschl quanto I francesi
vl hanno sublto o contlnuano a sublrv)
sono enorml. Gil altr! fortl contlnuano a
rcsistero.
elegramml, da Roma dlcono cho II go
vernb ttallano ha, requlslto 35 plroscafl
austrlacl e tedeschl che si trovavano in
acque Italians al momento della, dlchlara
xlone dl guerra.
Un altro dlspacclo da, Roma dice che
Gabrlele d'Annunzio, che e' uillclalo dl
cavallerla nelle truppe combattentl contro
i'Austrta, a' rJmaato forlto pluttosto gra
vemente o cha probabllmente dovra ac
conclarsl alia perdlta dl un occhlo.
(Leggera In 4a paglna la ultima e plu'
dettagllate notlzle sulla guerra lit (tall
ano.) $876,100 Asked for Harbor Work
WASHINGTON, Feb. 36. Array, en
gineers today asked Congress to appropri
ate 1875.100 for further improvements of
the Baltimore, Md, harbor. Tho general
board approved the district engineers' report.
BY CONTRACT
ssia1. v
. ""3f3i5 --
'I ." '2Si
A.. lJHfitH. '
4-
G.W.KENDRICK,JR.,
NOTED MASON, DIES;
WAS ILL TWO DAYS
Past Grand Master of Grand
Lodge of Pennsylvania and
Former Politician and
Financier Succumbs
END COMES SUDDENLY
GEORGE W. KENDRICK, JR.
George W. Kendrlck, Jr., one of the most
widely known Masons In the country, died
today In the arms or hla son, Murdock
Kendrlck, at his home, 3507 Baring
street. Tho end camo suddenly while
servants were telephoning for physicians.
Mr. Kendrlck waa In fairly good health
until last Thursday, when ho complained
of feeling III. '
This morning he called for his son Mur
dock, whoso room was nearby, and tho
latter hurried to hla aid. "I am feeling
very badly," said Mr. Kendrlck. Ho died
a. few minutes later.
News of his death caused great sorrow
In Masonla circles, ile had held the
highest honors of the order In tho State
and was past grand master of the Grand
Lodge of Pennsylvania.
Relieving that' it uas for the best In
terest of tho order to abolish Intoxicating
drinks from Its social affairs, Mr. Ken
drlck Issued an order about eight years
ago that no alcoholic or malt beverages
should bo served in the Masonlo Temple
nt any Masonlo function. The order haa
been steadfastly adhered to. It caused
Continued on l'ute Three, Column Two
MAY BE HAD FOR THE ASKING
AND THANKS AWFULLY FOR IT
Parby Police Would Llko to Dispose
of Some Really Healthy Dynamite
Nobody loves a stick. f dynamite.
That is, not many people do, and the
police of Darby are among those who
don't. They haye several sticks In a
package passed on to them by others that
didn't want 'em. There la enough of It to
bjow them all to Verdun. They walk past
R on tiptoe, and If they ever searched dili
gently for the owner of a missing article,
they are searching now.
The dynamite was found wrapped in a
newspaper on a Wilmington and Darby
trolley car. It was found at the end of
the day's run, and from the loose nature
of the package it is thought that It was
either dropped or kicked about uncon
cernedly by the passengers. The conduc
tor thought it was a package of maple
sugar and tossed it to the "low aud found"
clerk in Darby.
"Stew it up for your hot cakes In the
morning," ha salt). The clerk took one
look and then ran with it at arm's length
to the police station. It U thought to have
been left on tho car by a workman.
.
HI in i
nniH!
of "Tarzaa" on Page 7, and Montague Glass on Page
i -,
FLOOD OFFERS
COMPROMISE IN
CONGRESS ROW
Would Warn Americans
Off Armed Liners but A.s-
sert Legal Rights
PRESIDENT CONFIDENT
U.
S. Will Discuss Question of
Offensive Armament
With Berlin
WASHINGTON. Feb. 2fi.
Clinlnnnn Flood, ot tho IIouso Foreign
ffalrs Committee, went to tho State
Department todn to discuss wlh Secrc
nry Lansing tho possibilities of agreeing
on a compromise icsolutlon unrnlng
Americans to stay off armed ships
Flood bcllovcs American might be
warned in n resolution that still asserted
their legal right to piissnge on armed
incrchnninen. He would, also, by reso
lution, enter into tho question of ofTcn
slvo nnd defrnshe armament. Becking to
name tho cullbre or guns that should bo
regarded ns offensive nrmancnt.
The climax of diplomacy In tho strained
situation Is Imminent Germany's reply to
Secretary Lansing's representations that
tho new Admiralty order Invalidates as
surances given In the Lusltnnla case was
expected momentarily.
Unofficial Information was that the Ger
man reply may bo expected within 24. or,
at most. 48 hours. It Is believed Ambas
sador Bernstorft will bo In position by
Monday to give Germany's answer. This,
howovor, tho Administration la convinced,
will bo unsatisfactory.
There nppcarcd little prospect today of
postponement of tho Teutonic campaign.
With this Government refusing to ask
for delay, because such a lequest might
bo construed as partial recognition of tho
German decree, tho Administration's
hopes for postponement lay only In Am
bassador Bornatorft'a Informal suggestion
last week that a postponement might bo
arranged.
After two days of discord, Congress
was preparing to relax from tho agitation
for resolutions to warn Americans off
armed ships. Flareupa wcro expected,
but serious attempts to pass a warning
resolution over tho President's head wcro
temporarily abandoned.
Olllcinl denial waa made today of the
report cabled to this country from Berlin
that this Government is planning to tano
up tho Lusltanla negotiations direct with
tho Berlin Foreign Office, Ignoring Count
von Bernstorff, German Ambassador. Such
n course It was emphatically stated by an
olllclal of Hit State Department, Is not
being considered.
Special orders have been Issued by the
State Department that all correspondence
relating to armed merchant vessels In tho
fllC3 of Government departments must bo
guarded with the greatest caution, lest
It be seen by some ono who might make
lta contents public Practically all of. this
correspondence outside tho State Depart
ment Itself Is In tho files of tho Treasury,
and treasury officials' arc keeping a careful
watch on these files, Tho correspondence
at tho Treasury Department relates to tho
casea of the armed merchant vessels of
belligerent nations brought into American
ports.
Reassured by tho pledges he haa re
ceived from a majority of tho leaders of
both Republican and Democratic members
in both Houses and tho exprcsslona of
approval from citlzcna throughout the
country Irrespective of politics, the Presi
dent awaits without apprehension the ef
forts of his critics and opponents In Con
gress to tako from his hands the manage-
Continued on I'dr four. Column One
GIRL'S ASSAILANTS HELD
Ono Accused of Impersonating: Police-
man and Another for Attempt to Kill
Flashing a badge In an attempt to force
a glrl'tp accompany him and tiring a re
volver at a policeman resulted today In
two men being hctd In S00 ball for court
. by Magistrate Baker, nt tho 7th and Car
penter streets station.
They are William urennan, 1703 Pierce
street, accused of assault and battery and
Impersonating a policeman, and Angelo
Marlcuso, 622 Christian street, accused of
attempting to kill Policeman Condeco.
Condeco said ho went to the rescue of a
girl who was being insulted by Brennan
at 9th nnd Christian streets late last
night, when Marlcuso drew a revolver and
fired at him. Brennan, he said, showed
the girl a badge and attempted to force
her to go with him by telling her she was
under arrest.
CAMDEN GIRL STRIKER
"PINCHED"; WILL WED
Accused of Attacking Would-
Be Worker Freed on Bail.
Fiance Gets License
A llttlo thing like being nrrested did
not interfere today with the preliminary
plans of 20-year-old Mary Kumyty, -1923
Fllmoro street. Camden, for her wedding
on Tuesday. She rushed from the court
room today Immediately after her hear
ing and. with her fiance, went to tho mar
riage license bureau to obtain the docu
ment that lll enable the marriage bells
to ring merrily next week despite the fact
that the bride-to-be will then, as now, be
under J200 bail to appear n court to
answer a charge of nssault and battery.
The bridegtoom-to-bo is Alexander HI
lensky, 21 years old, of 1855 South 4th
btreet, Camden. He waited anxiously out.
side tho courtroom today while Recorder
Stackhouse frowned on his fiancee and
fixed ball on the pretty prisoner,
"Is that all?" asked the bride-to-be,
when the bail had been furnished.
"For the present," answered the Mag
Istrate. The girl laughed and ran to her
sweetheart outside They hurried off hand
In hand. They had Intended to get ..a
license yesterday, but tho arrest of tne
girl prevented this.
She was arrested with Ollle SStenlwIcz,
19 years old, 410 Jasper street, accused of
assault and battery on Pauline Doerska,
1806 South 4th street, Camden. The first
two girls are strikers, former employes of
Setdenberg & Co., clgarmakers.. at 6th
and Mechanic streets. They are said to
have seized Mlsa Doerska and rolled her
in the street when aha tried to go to work
yesterday Miss Zlenlwlct is also under
J20Q ball for assault and battery on an
other worker. Ball was furnished by
Robert M. Ilartmaii, organizer for the
American Federation of Labor.
BAUSEWINE SUSPENDED
AS POLICE LIEUTENANT
i i ...
Lieutenant Gcorrjc BauEewlnc, of the 12th and Pine ttrccts police
ntotloii, waa suspended today by Superintendent Robinson ou tho ac
cusation of "dibobedlcncc of orders." The older of supenstou doeo
not contain tho specific charges.
SCOTCH CITIES IN DARKNESS
LOUDON, l"cb. 20. The SeoUicu cltlca of Aberdeen, Dundeo,
Tcrth, Edinburgh, Icitli, Dunbav and Beru-ick uere Jn absolute dark
ncsa laal n.flit as a result of the new Ujrbtlpc; restriction!.
STATE COMMITTEE WILL
Tho Republican Stntc Committee today closed n deal whereby It will move
from its present headquarters at 329 South Brond street to 506 South Broad
street, tho "very hentt of tho Varo stronghold. Tho lenso was signed loday and
- the hrtulqunrtor.s will bo moved within n. few weeks. Tho new properly is a
thrco'nnd a hnlf story brick dwelling, formerly occupied by John O. Johnson,
Tho commlttco was obliged to movo to mako room for tho Pennsylvania Taximeter
Company, which is erecting a. four-story building at 329-31-33-35 South
Broad street.
ALLIES AGAIN SHELL GALLIPOLI TIP
CONSTANTINOPLE, Fob. 2C Another bombardment of tho Turkish position
at the Dardanelles by allied wnrshlps waa reported In the following official state
ment today: "On Wednesday an enemy armored cruiser and two other war
ships fired shells unsuccessfully ngninst tho const of Klllupala and Musmuk. A
battleship and cruiser fired some shells against our positions at Scdd El Bahr
and Tckko Burnu, at tho southwestern extremity of tho Gnlllpoll Peninsula, and
then retired."
U. S. SENATOR SHIVELY SERIOUSLY ILL
WASHINGTON, Feb. 26. United States Senator Benjamin F. Shlvely, of
Indiana, was today In a serious condition at Provldenco Hospital here. Tho
Senator has been under treatment at tho hospital for months, and hla physicians
express llttlo hopo that ho will ever recover hla full health. Tho nature of hi
malady, however, Is such that no sudden change In his condition Is expected, his
physicians say.
TWO BRITISH SHIPS SUNK BY U-BOATS
LONDON, Feb. 26. The British steamships Denaby and Tummel have been
sunk by German submailncs. Tho Denaby was a vessel of 2987 tons, which
recently sailed from Huelva for La Palllce. The Tummel was much smaller, dis
placing only 531 tons.
D'ANNUNZIO WOUNDED IN BATTLE
LONDON, Feb.1 26. A Central News dispatch from Homo states that sOa
briele d'Annunzio, tho famous poet, who Is fighting with tho Italian army, haa
been wounded, and It Is fenred he will lose tho sight of ono eyo.
FRENCH LINER ELUDES RAIDING CRUISER
BORDEAUX,JErance,;Fcb, 26c-rThat a German commerca raidcrjs lurking in
tho steamship lanes of the northern coast Ht Spain waa tho information brought,
here today by the transatlantic liner Chicago, which had a narrow escape from
capturo on tho night of February 17 off the Bay of Biscay. Tho liner Lnfayetta
had sent out a wireless warning of the presence of tho raider, add tho Chicago
hnd also been warned by wireless stations on tho Atlantic coast. A ship which
looked llko a tramp signaled the liner, but tho latter put on all speed, and,
despite the fact that It was pursued, managed to escape.
ITALY REQUISITIONS TEUTON STEAMSHIPS
ROME, Feb. 26. Tho Italian Government has requisitioned 35 Gorman and
Austrian steamships that were In Italian ports when tho war began.
PEACE CONGRESS RESOLUTION SIDETRACKED
WASHINGTON, Feb. 26. A canvass of the majority of the members of tho
IIouso Foreign Affairs Committee today showed thut tho London peace resolu
tion will never bo reported. Tho pet measure of Roprcsontatlvo Meyer London,
of Now York, tho only Socialist in Congress, authorizes the President to convene
a congress of neutral nations to offer mediation to tho European belligerents.
Members of tho Foreign Affairs Commltteo opposo action because thoy think;
It would be unwiso to pormlt agitation of tho sort at this time.
U. S. ACTS ON SEIZURE OF ALIENS FROM SHIPS
WASHINGTON, Fob. 26. Tha United States has Instructed Ambassador
Page at London to mako inquiries at tho British Foreign Olllce regarding tho
removal of 38 Germans, Austrlans and Turks from tho American steamship
China in Asiatla waters, and to demand the release of the prisoners, if they,
were arrested on the high seas, as has been indicated.
BRITISH AIRMEN RAID LILLE AERODROME
LONDON, Feb. 26. The following report from British headquarters la
Franco was issued last night by tho olllclal press bureau: "Yesterday" our aero
planes carried out ' a successful bombing raid on the enemy 'nerodrome hear
Lille. All the machines returned safely. Today the enemy exploded a mlna
near IJrJcourt. The explosion caused no casualties. Our artillery, was actlvo
against the enemy trenches about tho Yprcs-Comlnea Canal and east of Boo-Blnghe."
BRITISH CONSUL ILL FROM OVERWORK
Charles Alexander Spencer Perceval, British Consul .at Philadelphia, ia ia
the University Hospital 111 from overwork. Hla wife is at his bedside. Mr.
Perceval has been Consul since December, when Sir Wilfred Powell was called
home by tho death of-a-soa in the-war. Mr. Fcrceval came hero fronvGlolveston,
Tex.,- where-he had been Consul for six. years.
MEXICO GETS WIRELESS MESSAGE FROM YOKOHAMA
GUADALAJARA, Mex.. Feb. 26, A Mexican wireless Btatlon located upon
the west coabt at San Jose reports catching a message from tho Japanese land
wireless station at Yokohama. From Yokohoma to San Jose la a distance of 87QQ
miles. From Yokohoma to Honolulu, between which regular wireless service was
established last July, it ia about S380 miles.
GERMAN COUNT COMMANDS SEA RAIDER -
LONDON, Feb. 26. A Reuter-dlspatch from TenerlfTo says that tho captain
of one of the vessels sunk by tho German-raider which sent tho British steamship
Westburn to Santa Cruz with a prize crew described tho raider as a ship of from
2000 to 2500 tons, carrying six seven-Inch guns, having two torpedo tubes and with
a number of mines aboard. Tha Germans Informed him that sha could etearn IT
knots an hour, that she carries a crew of from 20J to 250 men and is under com
mand ot a German count. " ," '
SPAIN TO BORROW $20,000,000
MADRID, Feb. 26. A royal decree issued here authorizes the issue on Marc
1 of 3 per cent, bonds to the amount of IQO.000,000 pesetas, (about 2Q,Q00,G0ft).
(
VONJHSSING SUSPENDS TAX ON ABSENT BELGIANS
AIUS, Feb. 28. General von Hissing, Military Governor of Belgium),
decided to (suspend the tenfold tax on absentee Belgians, according to a. Ifcyw
dispatch to the Matin. In February, 1915, it was announced that a special Wwt
would be imposed by the German authorities on Belgian refugees. A eUtwHt
lxsued by the Belgian Legation in Washington said the tax was to be eo.utvlt
tq 10 times the usual personal tax.
EXTRA
MOVE TO VARE STRONGHOLD
6. ia This Issue
1
