S$Mt
y THE WEATHER FORECAST.
Rain or snow to-day: cloudy and north-
west gales to-morrow.
IT SHINES FOPv ALL
Highest temperature yesterday, so; lowest, 3a.
ict.ilicil weather, in.wl marine rcpoilson mro 13.
VOL. LXXXIII. NO. 179.
NEW YORK, SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 26, 1916. vomi0M. iri. t.y sun pnnti,,,, ami phuM0 Anuon.
PRICE TWO CENTS.
GERMAN DRIVE
PERSISTS, BUT
FRENCH RALLY
flat tie for Yerdnn Still In
tense. Despite Heavy
Fall of Snow.
WINTER IS BEGUN;
JOFFRE IX COMMAND
Merlin Says 10.000 Prison
ers Were Taken Claims
Further (Jains.
TEFTOX LOSSES NOW
PIT AT i:0,000 MEX
Kaiser Himself Reported lo
Have Rehearsed Men for
Present Offensive.
Revolt Threatened by
the French in Canada
Restriction of the Teaching of Their Language in the
Schools Causes a Refusal to Pay Taxes
Until Demands Are Met.
DANIELS SCOLDS HIS
EDITOR FOR WAR 'AD'
COUNT'S BRIDE GETS
CONTRACT WEDDING
Wires Sizzliiiff UcprlmaiKl for; Mi Sinilli (iocs Tliroii-2.li
Throe (Vi'Pinotiies in Marry
inir Stnr.cnski.
IMihliHhiiur Ni'itlsh dill
to Americans.
BOYCOTT ALSO TO SUPPORT "FRENCH RIGHTS"
CABINET EAflER TO SKK U ONLY OXK OTIII.lt WAY
Thompson Asks Removal "WILSON QUIETS
of $10,000 P. S. C Lawyer REVOLT; BRYAN
PLEA RESENTED
OTTAWA. ". llj.v ! .ILenrri. I ir.if.1 In 1 1 .... r- In llnl.iriii Vlt
whleh c.- ............i t.i .. ........ iifiM I loin: befotH rniirt-1irMtliiii th touching'
--... iui i,,i,.iitt ot IIUII. It ..eiiii.ij , . it .
been a sinister Influcucn hi dominion
politic:, Is nKalti threatening tho national
solidarity of the Dominion. In the past
fortnlKht the surface agitation of On
tario French .Canadian against Hit- pro
vincial regulation restricting bilingual
teaching lit the schools has spread with
ominous rapidity, revealing Itself uk
MUesllou probably recond only In na
tional lmort to the Breat war. . This
national slgnl'lc.itice Is strikingly Illus
trated In a I'oiublnrit effoit of tnit.irlo
Fiench Canadian pilesls lo jnovont ie
crultliiB anions their people; In the de
cision of 3,000 French citizens of ot
tawa to iay no taxes, 1'Vdetat, provincial
or municipal, unless and until th.ir de
mands arc granted , In thteat of blood
alied liv of tlii most Prominent bi
lingual leaders . in monster mass inert-1 ""JS'"'
Iiirs of French Canadian addre.icd b t
their fwrllatncntaiy representatives, .Hid
In a memorial signed by every Fifiith
citizen In Ontario to the Federal Oov
ernnirnt dnmanillnir that the provincial
act restricting the Fiench language K
disallowed.
of French had been legalized In this
province. A early an li.il the Frenco
tnadl.iu obtained from l.io (Jntaru
Grcirory Mcllrvos Aincricaiis; Union
Are Not Too Promt to
Fiirlit."
Council of Public Injunction tbe privl-,
lege of en-gaging teuejiers who eould ttlvo ,
instruction in French. Hy lstiO sewn
i.veurs befoie confederation the French1
certificate of qualification from Lower
Canada wan ncvepted i' I'pivr Cntiuda,
and live, yeais later t i life of Frencn
text book? authorlted li. 'er Canada,
yuebee, wan jierniltted. Ur. KKerton
ltyeryon, famous In Canadian history as
an educationist, was responsible for tbe
decisions uhlcli thus established the
Kiench !aiiKUiK In hnt i now On
tin !o These nrrntiKenicnl mirvled the
ehauges brought about by confedera
tion, .mil they Mere x'.ill further de
eloped in favor of the French 111 1872,
and iiKaln In 1 when the county
councils within ivhoe Jurlsilletlun theie
wen- French settlers eie ulUhorlrri!
to apiioint exainlueis m the French Ian-
.. ji l ublt He'patef, In Tur. Se.
London. Feb. ... The battle ror er
dan, whtdi has been uninterrupted since
Jloralas, continued to-diiy. with only a
,. pa; decrease In the desperate violence
of the Herman attach. In spite of a
lav fall of snow.
t)lrekardlnc the unfavoiable weather
lorlltions. the Hermans centred
offensive on the lldse of hlllst to the east
of flianipneuvllle. but althouph large
b i.r of troops were ued and the a-
aul; was uiivrccedenlcd l"
further train was made.
For the time beiiiK ut least the reat
".ermaii offensive nlmed al Veidun
(ecus to be cIiccKimI. The advance of
est) relay wmi for tlieiii. In addition to
.ie lllaes iilieady iinuounced as taken.
to ilic louthwei-t of ba-
Que.) Ion
titSS there
u ctt elite.
French rMliHtllmia I lilted.
In HS5 there arov a great ui;lta
tion ainomr the ICiirIIsIi piople of the
prolnce to restrict the use of French
In the schools. It was haunt on the
ground that lis Ue militated against
ilie iiioner teaching of girlish. For
i more than twenty ears tins eomro-
. ..l l...r ..ltf..V-rf III (lltll
Kvldence that the I'leli.M people 1 t ttlt . until In It'll the Ontario tloVern
Ontario are li.iclti-d by the full jmtter of , conducted an Invi htlgatlon Into
their two million compattlots In tjuchrc the Freuch-FnRllsli schouls, found them
Is found In the remarkable, and to t'a- inelliclent, condut ted In some eases con
nadlan statennen dlstuiblna. fact that traiy lo lioveintnent tegulatliois, and
this past w,'k Iiiik seen the l.Kistatlve 1 passed n lesult what l known as
Assembly of that inoWine pass a bill Kegulatlon 17 Ilrlelly this irgulatlon
b a ole of tf. to :! atithorlzint; the required F.ngllsh to lie taliKht In French
their 1 municipalities of l.Miebcc to vote x sum or IiIIIiikuhI schools from the begin-
Lup to ." per cent of their kiosk receipts ning of the course and lie tne language
to support the light for "Flench tights" ! nf communication and instruction after
' In Ontario. And the proof of lids miii- the lift two years; ami special In
Ipoit Is emphasized In action alreadj sp.-ctois were appointed to see that the
violent e no taken by Flench Canadian tiims In Que-1 enactments were enforced. ine eio
I..... -iii.t Muntifal to bove-ott Ontario, erniuent. however, did not propose the
iiiamiractureirs.
To Ket a pioper persptciiNe of what thhi
Fiench Canadian iiKltallou for eeitalu
educational il.-hts In Ont.ulo means It
N necessary lo go Uick as far as the ,
titaty of Fails alter the conquest of,
ejuelieo. That treat. among other tilings.
It!"
the
terrlllc attacks, free ewrtMs.' of their lellglon. tills
been and Is Interpreted hy I reucn
W-esitiNuroN, Feb IS Whether or
not nny new International complication"
liy Aurooinciit First
i
Kccordt'd More in Fiv
Years I'mlor Law.
G. S. Coleman's Poor Memory Arouses Senator,- Who
Says He Will Lay Committee's Record on Admiral
Realty Co. Suit Before Bar Associations.
QUIGG ADMITS HE GOT ADDITIONAL .$2,500
The developments at the henrinp; before the Thompson legislative
committee yesterday were: ;
PIO CT l t .... 'Fl.Mn.. . ,in.l itutt tin lute 1'finiin
( I injl 1 IIUIIip.UII (IllllUllllLVll IIIWV IIV IIH.i .einvfv i
! Straus of the Public Service Commission to remove (jeorRc S. Coleman ui
Ity the iiling in the f'ouniy t'letk s I chief counsel to the commission,
oilhe ve.terday of a contract of iiiar-1 SECOND Senator Thomnson declared his intention to lay before the.
are threatened hy the publication In Sec-1 rlnge it became himwn that Miss Hilda cw York County Uar Association and the New York State Har Associa-j
n.iiileN'3 paprr. the NTHBite .-mitii. onugmer 01 '" "" toll tj,e committee's entire record on the Admiral Keulty Company's suit i
to tost the constitutionality of the dual s.ubwny contracts.
THIRD A sub-committee of the Thompson committee it-ported that
Coiiirress Xot to Push II
Rout" Issue Unless War
Threatens.
LETTER TO STONE
SOOTHES LEADERS
, nniim.Mlv.llo.
mo?oeux, oil tiie same side 01 ine Kuuianieeti to i irnm ...n.....i,..
M... mi.i itiiitnont. The latter held . right to tetaln their customs and
out for huura aualtiet
but tlnally was evacuated last night
removal of French from the schools.
It might remain the languiic" of com
munication and Instruction during the
llrst two :ears and could be retained
as such even later where circumstances
In the Judgment of the Inspectors re
sulted .Moreover, after the Hist two
jenrs It was In h11 cases a compulsory
subject In the curriculum, to he latncht
This village was the ixjlnt of the wedse
iwu.'h the French maintained In the new
Herman llnea when the llerni.1119 forged
head oil both Hanks.
Battle Line StralBhteaetl.
The remilt of the taking of Heaumont
li to htralghteji the new battle line,
uhlth lieglne on t he Meuse at a point
t-t of Clumpneuvlllc, runs Just to the
outli of thht village, follows the heights
l-i the north of Louvemout. which has
b ne Ihu centre of the Oeiman at
ta K and continues eastward to the
tuiili of Oineji.
T ie oiMcial communique Issued by the
null War Ottlce to-niglit follows;
! Champagne In the morning we
tucked and captured an enemy sa
id 1 south of St. Marle-a-f'y. In the.
course of this action we took 300 prls
trrr. of whom sixteen were non-com-i.jnel
oltlcers and live weie olllccts.
in the Argonne a destructive file
as iltectlvely directed against the
(J'rei.in organizations north of l.i
ll.o.i -e
1 ;he regiot. north of Veidun snow
1 i abundance. In the course of
t ,a the activity of the artillery on
tut. (de was of extteme Intensity on
t whi'le front, especially to the east
of '. ie .Me use, where the battle con
t. ie with the same extreme violence.
Sit' ut Herman attacks made with
U'Sc forees mid with unprecedented
.u.. ii. e on l..'i Cote du l'oivre failed.
A" iti attack on our iiosltlons In the
11 1 de la Vatichee was also arrested.
1 ..,1 west of the .Meuse thele was no
li.f.i .it r a. tion
. the Vosges thete was an nitllleiy
t the valley of the Fecht.
.innre 111 i'erouni 1 iiiniiiniiti.
'i. 1 ifl ( is In personal e-oinmand of j
lb I 1 forces and heavy Flench re-j
.rf ' r , cms have been lirought up. I
S -i n i.ie Trench military critics
ie- !. Verdun battle an engaaeinent
hi 1 may last for two weeks longer and
!, r in 'snipe may exceed any battle
c the Freinh on the .Maine turned
bi k the liermtin ndran o on Paris.
Mu i..l.... r.i,t TOd frnll, flle'e
i.'r: ior." of terrible slaughter. One
ur:. jii br.ngiuu hack 11 tralnload ot
'Oiinlul. said that he watched one Oer
rrsn nrigade advance against the
r'rnieh lines in close formation. When
It few within range of the French
bittctes the entile brigade was mowed
1 ie forts of Verdun hivo been cn
re't r. built since the fall of Liege
tei ' btratril the weakness of the older
! (f fnrtltlcations against modern
lf.iv a'tdlerv. Hand forts have re-
l-.n' t, tjit, ,111111 1 uutirir, m, im
'': mounted on tracks connecting all
p.rts of the fortress.
Orninii. Clulin Further fialne.
Tie apiure of Heaumont Is announced
In both French and Herman official
i' irns this iifternoon. The tier
mir, tiiitrment also announced the cap
ture 'it urnct, already announced by tho
I'rrm War Citliee l.mt night, and of
f'fcimiirieuvlllc. an well as of the farms
0.' i ntHilate. Haumont and Chamhrettcs
M .re than 10.000 prlnoneiH have been
"n i.t the Hermans in this flghtlmr,
t ' 'ureiaii i-tatement says, and, adds
b,i 1 n I'rench Ions In dead and
'mri'l(( ih "extraordlnailty heavy,"
' ie Herman hwses are "normal,"
T " a ter statement Is III contradiction
"' 11 oil1 ,al ncits distpatchcH from Farls.
te't rif terrlllc losses among the
r 11 1 ixipt,, advancing Iji close for
tiTiw MgalnM massed machine gun and
lliilerv nre.
T ie beginning of a French counter
ef(u 1 ,. , indicated In the Furls com
f.Ji. ji 'J'he point fcelected for tills
co'iir. niotrmetit Is im the edge of the
Ars'" 'i forest, to tho west of the Ver
bm ' I let i the French launched
I'm If acum-it the Herman lines In th
"'i- hepp), last of Vauquols, and
" ,1 'ne time took up an active bom
h.i dire. n the Herman positions In the
s du 111 (iiuele, north of I. a lluiazen.
1' 11 r fining, after a temporary lull,
ii.io been resumed Willi furious
I''1'' ' , the French holding Ihu new
t'1 o which they wllhdiow fiom
' omi'lilfil on 71I11I I'noe.
the
Tbe Frrueh Point of View.
ti'iu t lor no; moie man one nuur 11 nay. 1 ne
i.. .whole tollcy was slnceiely Intended to
.... ,.iw,i(,.tl..i,..1 rl.-l.l in hitt'A iietirr toe I'ti'i.inii "i i.iihi.u m
French 'taught In the schools where ' spools without destroying Fiench.
French are In the niajotlty as a language
of public Instruction. It Is so recognized
In Quebec. It has long been a sub-,
ject of contioversy In Ontario, Maul-,
toha and other Kuglish speaking prov
inces, and the r,lse and fall of Mill-1
Istrles have more t'lian once been due to '
the bitterness of the Issue. ,
The Itritlsh North Amenta act of
IMiT. which embodied suar.ililees upon
retary of the Navy
Italelgh .Veils din Obsrrrrr. of a page
advertisement catling on Americans to
cross the Canadian border and enlist In
the American I.eglon there are complica
tions a plenty in the editorial rooms of
the .Vein iisd Ofcjrrrrr
The reason Is one which will appeal to
P.tik I tow, for Secretary Daniels ,r,l
over the wiles to Italelgh to-day one of
the hottest "call downs" ,1 managing
editor ever teethed fiom the owner of a
paper. It ran something like this
"Ami Inr.1r1n.1l !., ih.. V.tv Vnrl. ! I
that In oiir sue of laft Sunday we 1.1 11
a page 'ad' calling on Amerlt an. lo en
list In the Ameiicsii I.eglon of Honor
being rm mid in Canadi I am astounded
that ou should ever have peiniltted such
a thing to appeal Never l"t Mich a
tiling happen again. '
The Secretarv plaii.ly was upet to
day ovet the iidverti-emtnt, although lie
reiterated that he was m.t in active
charge of the paper 11 1 piesent. When
the matter was called to the atltiitlon
of the State Dep.u tuieiit it .tioil"ed much
amuseiuuu. ottlcials askid eagerlv for
coiiles of the piper containing the "ad."
Sevttal Cabinet ntlueis .ii.su ,li 111.1n.lcl
copies saying, sniilli.nlv . that they would
like 10 confront Mr Daniels at one u! the I
Cabinet meetings with tills "gio.s viola
tion of neutralit.v."
.Meantime Secretary ti.ii.nl. is await
ing an explanation fiom h. 111.11 agiiu
eJltoi.
of .t 'reeir.ent when thev- were
lilO West Sovcnt -font III Htieet on No
vember I last. Thele nlso wele civ.
and leliglons teiemonle..
Coi'.ty.-l weddings me custom try In
"oine i:uroieati countile". but rale In
the Fluted State", although made pos
slli'o liv lb- domestic relations law In
Now Yoik When the sPi relary of Su-
tllente C.iUlt .lllllte Selldder of ItrOok-
l.vii. who 1 iifoinied the civil mar
riage In this ease unit then signed his
name 011 tin back of the contract lo
fnice. went to Ibe New
Clerk's ollUe to tile the
w is told by an olllcial
1 mil. I not b iiccejited.
E.v - Secretary's Telegram
Trying Rebellion Has
Opposite Effect.
Chin Ie. Snraciii Smith, director of the
l'eoplo's Institute, uml Count Victor (
tli .. ........ -l.l .. .1 I .1.1. itii.iu.lnl frirlll I
til I r.( .1.- It I imiijueii till- 1un1rn.11 jt ... . I ',11,1 Ul III
married nt ! Its examiiiaiiun into wie recorus cuvciiiik ine unci uuiouku i au-uin..
"prior determination" account disclosed facts callnm for thuvfullest inves-
tlKution by the full committee and perhaps by the District Attorney.
FOURTH Lemuel Kly tJuiKc explained wlutt services he rendered LM IMfOVE.M EXT IX THE
last year to T. A. Gillespie for the fJ.oOO check he received, and told of
unotlier $'J,r00 he leceived of which the committee knew ttothi ti j-r. He
said neither payment bud anything to do with mutters in which tbe
Thompson committee is interested.
FIFTH James I.. Quackenbusb, the Intel lioroiik'h's general counsel,
expressed the rc-jret of the company's olliciuls that Mr. Quitfi; had seen lit
to refer to Senator Thompson as a "conscious hluckKtiuid."
The iui.k dlstusston tif the Admiral.;-
Ke.iltt Company s suit wn mtei itipiru
to give l-eiiiut I Kly tulgg an oplu tuulty
lo explain what seivltes he minified lo
T lilllfsple e.tilv la-t car foi which
never heard ot a con- . inelved a check ror 5...1U''. .vir. iiukb
Hut .lustl.'i Sctiddei'ii 1 ,, ..(ti,.,! 1l1.it he hat teceived ll'.ioo ill
give It lek.il
Vork County
elocumeiit be
tlictt that .1
Tills ntllcl.'il had
lt.11 1 marriage.
clerk inlvlcd htm I" look up the law.
This was done and after a toiircli the
Count Clerk's man found a inairlage
rotitta' t which was 111 .1 live .ve.ue ago.
II'. T. GREGOm
Hut unfortunately It was not su In
terpreted by the French Canadians In
either Ontario or Quebec. They re
fused to accept the regulation, threat
ened Hoverrunent inspectors with vio
lence and willingly forfeited In the case
of nearly 200 schools the aid of tiie
provincial money grai.t. The agitation
...!..i, 11,. v.,riAim i.riit'iuoH cmne nto awnn.-i toe it-KUKiuoiir cuiiiinufu anil
tonfe-tleratlon. made Flinch an olllcial r.as accentuated to the point of violence
,.... 1.. ,t. immiiilnu I 'arlhitneiit i when the Ontario Hovernnient Mime
and also reaffirmed the right- of the 1 months ago look the administration of
language In Quebec. Hut Ihoie was , the Catholic and blllnsual schools f tit-
nothliis In the act which gave tho;
French people any speeml 1 slits In ie-1 ( oiifiierd 0,1 Mini 'nor.
i VERDUN DRIVE PLAN H. C. FRICK TO ENLARGE
! OF THE GROWN PRINCE HIS HOME ART GALLERY
net-lure WHon
Hut I'eople Mnnil.
The lollowing lelegrani was unt
Tm: Sun to William T. Hregoiy. whose
name appears In the page advertise
ment published In Secretaiy IJoniels's
paver, the Italelgh .Vcic mid obnrri ri .
U'llliiin 7'. Gvrgory,
l.raminijtttn, (tntat'to
St'N would be glad 10 pi ml any
Hatement vou may ire 10 imike on
liubllcallon in Aineilcan papei of
American l.eaiou udvertisetmiit.
Tim St v
Tiie following iepv was reteived bv
Tin: SfN from Air tliegor.v :
I.eaminuton. On:. Ft h IV The
tvilter Is .111 .merh.111 citizen hallluc
from the grand old State of North Car
olina, re'ldliig In Canada for the pas;
several .vears Have no otllrlnl coune.-
Fotir IVaM to tiet Married,
. Four ways of solemnizing a lunula"
' ate set fc.i til III the tlninc-iie. relations,
1 law. Flist. It may be thine by a eler?'-.
I in. ill or the leadets uf the Sotlel for j
I l.thlcnt I'ullllle. tecond. by a Mayor,,
Iteciuder. Aldeniian. City Maslsliate,
polite Justice or police magistrate;
third, b a Just:, e nr .ludge of a court,
of recoid 01 a MiDilciinil Coiilt or a
Justice tif tin- pc.i'e. and fourth, by
means of a wiltteii titiitract. j
Tile tonti.nt must be signed by both 1
t'oiitmi ting partl' and at least to'
' witnesses and atlvJionledgeil bv tlietn ill
i-rr . n.fi i '"' same ninnner in whuli a real estate
nA'MAt1). ! deed i MtknowletlRed. Tills must be
1 done belore a Judge of a court of
Will I'lttd Out 1 refold, and Hie uiuti.ui must be re-
1 e.ii.l...! tt.lli.it . imiiillw In (lie tiflli',
of the County Clerk. The contract tiled '
b 1 vesterday follows
ailJIlit f winch lh committee knew
iiotlilng. ami that neither paineiit had
aiiMliiiu: to do with matt' rs In which
Hi,- Thompson committee Is Intel e-ted
Tills view is nut sliaied by Senator
Tlioiiip'oii 01 In Frank Moss, the com
mittee's counsel
I'revious to the appcaiance of Ml
ijuigg a statement was mailt b James
i.. eju.it l.etibuh. general attorney for
the Interboroiigh, that Fiefld.tit Shouts
and other olllceis of the 10mp.u1 re
gretted vei much that .Mr ejuigg had
seen tit to chaiitcti rlze Senator Thomp
son as .1 "conscious blackguard
"I want to say that I have 110 control
over Mi. l.'ulgg 111 his pnvate business,"
said Mi Qiiaek. iibuslf, "but he is nil
Plo.vd by this i.iilmad, and therefme In
a way he Is associated with me. For
that le.i-on I want to sa that 1 deplore
the language ho used III that letter, and
I wish to add that 1 say this by direction
of Mr. Shouts. The lutelbotough has
been treated with consideration by this
committee and we icgiet that 11 lawei
in our employ should have undertaken
Tills agreement, made and entered ... ,i,ii.., in v Hunt ration of you.''
Into this llrst day of November. In tin .. mink the letter lias been of value
ear IH I."., at l'i West Seventy-fourth , .,. .. tHi,..i Si iialor Thomitson. "I
appieclate It. not the -pit it ill w hit h it
w.t- wtitiili, bin tiie itsull '
tliuitu,
street. Manli man, U'tweeii Count Victor,
Staizciiskl, itsldlng at l'.'i Park live-,
pile, Schducc t.nly, N. V. and Hilda
Spiague Smith, icslding at 1".' Wet 1
SIMy-e Igblh street, Manhattan. New .
Voik flly. In the presence of Isabella 1
wight Spntgue Smith, tesidlng at 19 :
West Sixty-eighth stlee'. nforesald, nnil ,
Louise Veltln, rending at I'.' West Sivly- ,
lilllth stieet. atolesald, 1
"Wltnesseth, wheieas the s.ml Vi, ;or
I Starencki and Hilda Spiague Smith liavo
agrt ed
1 monv and heconie
1 Ironi hem efoith .
I "Now, theiefoie. 1 1 pursuance of suh.
I division I of section II of article :i of
VI u fit llllfffsl
T.iei.. wa .1 noticealilo levn.tl at .n-
1,1, m the iiioccidinvs vvleii
Qill.'K wa- call
'been banging away until the white halt
of Ml. QUlgg was one with the fug III'
the room tin, I Senator Thompson an
nounced .1 rcess for a ,w moment-.
There weie two or tnree mole evplo-
. nlons.
"Now oil ale famuli"." lemaiked Sen
ator Thonpsnii
I didn't need that," replied the wit-
1 llt'SS.
, The voucher was again taken up. It
showed lh.lt I'll the Hlllespl,. hooks the
J:'..'.00 was ill volt d In t iiua I amounts to the
Kast Jersey I'lpe Company, New Votk
disposal Company and general expense.
1 "Thele was nothing In writing to cover
this tr.11 sactlon? '
"Oh. es. There w.i a greit deal of
correspondence."
I "What was the, date of the lat
I letter'."'
J "I don't know."
1 ."Was that the only mime ou te
ceived?"
"No 1 have re. eived HeiOO besides
till- check, 51.IH1U befoie I went to Oram!
Rapid and ?1..".(mi since."
"When did ou receive these amounts?"
"I don't know."
Will ou Mud out.'" asked Senator ,
Thoiiip-oii. 1
"Yes, I will; but you iinilei.-tanil tills 1
Is none of our builncss."
"1 know, but I have a letter from ou
Indicating that uti waul to explain tills
thing."
"I am explaining It."
"Well, 1 think we would belter excuse
oii until ou get llifotined volirself"
'hxcept for lb examination of th"i
CRISIS A I, SO FIfllT RES
Resolutions to liar Citizens
From Relligercnl Ships
Sidetracked.
law and the talk wiUi .Mr. i.'ravuth these
erforuiitd
U Asnivorov. Fidi. I.'. - I'rtsi.ltnt Wl.
.tin has the revolt In Congre. over hi
suUmarltie policy in control for the time,
being.
There will nut be UII.V legislation im
this stihje, 1 against his wishes unless the,
situation with Oernmny should .suddenly
change, lor the vvoise. Then the opposl.
Hon to the President's course will Hare
up again, and tho leaders of the House
contend that It will h- extreme'- il.lll.
cult for them to lu'id oft action b.v Con
gle.ss.
The revolt in Congress h '.s been
chicked by two tluv elopine m tin us
surance that have been given by the
Administration tli.it the situation w.lli
(.ninny has Improved within the last
day or two and the publication of the
resident's letter to Senator stone
Thele Is a thlid development that I, .is
exercised a surpiMng Intluenee in hang
ing the democriitM of tho House aiound
and swinging tho control back Into the
hands of the Adiiilnlntratlon. This do.
velopment Is the, net of William J Itr.van
a one of the lenders: hi the movement
j for warning Auieric.it.s fiom 1 ne.l iner
tia nt vessels.
Mi.
I to the stand III llr-t
..iu ....... in .... tntt .t lotit. I i.tt tlitv
could he iietrd w.th dllllculty acioss tlu
counsel table, and upon a tequest fiom
til" ii'wspajiei men that lie spc.ue totiu
(,. nnil.. Iti (lie linnils nf ni.itel. : Hit Klt.tl .t'v
huh.ind and wife nm
tion with the militia depjitmeut who , tlle dtiine-tlc relations law. It Is iigre?d
are correct in lelllng . vou that tliey have 1 ,!,. ,. victor Starzenskl -ind
110 knowledge of my activities M behalf nu,, spr.iuue Smith tin hereby from the
of Creat Ilrltalu and her brave and (,ite of this contract become husband
chivalrous allies, and their pie-e'ii 1 .,,! wife, ami the heieh ngiee to 11s.
struggle to save tne democracies oj
Huroiie and of the win Id.
Kiiisoi- Sniil to Hnvf CIi"I1
llim. Ovcrnilinji II inl-n-liurir
mill Mackcn-i'ii.
Atlilititiii Is Ni't'dcil in
Colh'ctioii. Said to Hi Worth
.$10,000,000.
I'lie
rounell, others
(let man 11 own
I'lllice if Havana
von llltideniiurg
advocated an
Field Marshals
lsen op
he bet-alteady
sweidl flit's pfvatrh I" Tin: Sis
I'kthcoisap, Feb. ir. The army news
paper Kinsfcl hnnlltt Pilots a stoty
partlv based on a Stockholm lepoit of
a council of war In H-rllti at which. It
Is stated, the acsau't "li Verdun wa
decided upon.
n.i n.oti.tl w.ts fouveiied, the 'tor
il.,., v.niie liiove to offset the
taking of Krzerum by the Itussians.
n-ftlser nreslded at tne
1, recent licllllllllg Ue
Prltire. the CtOWIl
and Field Marshal
and von Mackensen.
rtt.d itrlneeK Klionuiv
attack on tbe French front mid proposed
Verdun us the objective, r ietd .viiirsnan
von Hlndenburg and von
iiosed this. Ulglllg mat it -
....inn tiie oneratlalis ahead
1,1 1 t..r. Hie nnsslan from, w hero Von
ilindenlHirg helleved that the chances of
success were greater. Field Marshal von
Hlndenburg- expreed iloubt vvliether 11
inv Vise an attack on Verdun could
"v"ccee an" argued that If I. failed,
thus i.rovlng that the newlongraiiReheiivy
gunVwe refess formidable thiin had heen
h oermnns would be illscour-
".'.''....a v.n,.l,l ! "deprived of the
moral support especially needed In the
,,fure against tiie nusslan troops."
1.-1.1.1 Marshals, however, were
l.'.t. a 1... ivi Kaiser, who supported
hSeso . H,fd orders weie .-nm.dlately
L ?en for the necessary concentration.
The Kiifc '"' f"""rks;
"Tills Is the third time that the Allies
have prevented the Hermans from prose
Dtttimr carefully ehiboruted schemes,
f,. n.edv by he occupation of Salonlca
C As n advance In llukowlna and
h2 cinture of llrzcium. Kncli time tho
Ineiov has !' "'' l"'m '!!
ri?ve t trnoiis Intended for the objective."
TI e HusM lnv,,IUl expresses the
?r:!"!0ll1e,tV';.wl":Hyvo,,
Mrograd "nd Von Mackenscn's proposed
VATICAN INVESTS IN LOAN.
FumU In Aunlrln nnil tfrnimnjr
Wlthdrnvrn, llomr llrnra.
A;ieco) t'ablt hfpatvh In Tut; Six
IIohk Feb. IS, It Is understood hem
that the Vatican Investments In Herman
ind Austilun securities have been with
drawn and 1 110 money reinvesled In the
Italian war loan. The explanation Is
that the dividends 011 the Kilter are more
easily cashed here.
The funds nf the Holy See have fur lliti
nio-t pail been Invested in llrst class hi.
uieu nrlncloally lliigllsh nnil French.
or placed In rcllnlile hanks. Very llltl
money so fur us Ik known, hits been
Invested In He-many or Auatrlu,
ontemplaleil iiltcmpt on
Henry C Fuck is to enlaige his ait
ga.ler.v to iici'oiumuda le lietler the won
derful collection of paintings, statuarv
and porcelolns which he owns. The
value of his collection Is known only
lo .Mr. Flick, but It . lomuionly ie
ported to have cost him llo.onu.oou.
His piesent gallery, next lo his hunuj
at Fifth menus and Seventy-tlrst stieet,
extends along Seventy-tlrst street. Th
addition will be similar to It In urrhl
teetura'. effeel and will he probably fifty
feet wide and 100 feet deep, With the
iidditiou the art treasure house wilt ex
tend 213 feet along Seventy-tlrst street.
Mr. Frlck has already spent 51,500,000
mi his New Vork home, which occupies .1
site 100 bv 175 feel, fotmerly covered
by the Lenox Library. Carrere A
Hasting, who ileflgneil the home, are
preparing sketches for the addition. The
property for the addition was purchased
lost October ny .Mr. Mick rrom a
builder. It was acquired through
Harold li. Thome, vice-president of the
Hankers Tiust Company.
Mr. Frlck bus been collecting his art
treasures for twenty-live years and he
has some of the most notable paintings
iln America. He has pictured by Frame
liais, ivcioiir.tinii. itijteiiari huh van
Dyck In his early dutch and Flemish
mailers. Ills early Italian mastcra In-(
elude examples of CJuardl, Veronese and
a Titian, lie owns VelaMiuen's "Philip
IV." and other early Spanish masters.
Ills early Kngllsh masters include paint
ings by Uaiusburougli, Hogarth, Law
retire, Itiicburn, Iteynolds, Turner and
llomhey.
Two years ago .Mr. Frlck acquired
tin co paintings by Whistler. A year
ago an article In tho ,tiiiirlrnn Art .Veto
said that Ills collection numbered only
about 100 pleccH, hut that It had more
distinctive examples than any other pri
vate collection III America, II waa said
that Mr. Frlck bad arrived to till tho
place in the art world wjilch was occu
pied by Hi" lale J, I". Morgan.
Mr. Frlck Is believed to have been the
niirchaser of many of the Morgun paint
ings and of Mr. Morgan's collection of
porcelains at a price placed all the why
from 5500.000 lo 5100,000,
100 KILLED IN BERLIN RIOT?
Full page advertisement appearing
II 1 1 I in si rtuiitiu.t III tile It.tieiKU 1. . tut
llOltl 0111I Otmrnvr. owned by the Hun .losephu
Daniel, Secietaiy of the Navy In Ml.
Wilson's Cabinet. Ill the Oreenboro
Duilu AVus, In Hie stair .Jouriint and
other Southern papers. wa for the pin-
puse of giving the utmost puoll Ity to
Herman atrocities as well as to show
to the world that Americans aie not a
nation of people too proud to light
Slime
1 lions
the marital lelations and obllgu-
periaiuing theieto"
gnat aieelfiutoi tcpilcii wuoi'ui a
that lie had n. i('.a theie was any
line est 111 vvn.it lie had t" -av
"I invited Mr ejumg to attend,' said
Ml Moss, "Pecause or .1 letter which t.e
eni 10 tint i,i-us1i.i1m is and to Senator
H.omi'soii and fiom wliLli it appealed
lli, 1 in. wanted lu make all
t,f a che foi 5I.5"" winch he reodved
fiom Mr lilllesple. '
' It ilul not sit appeal. eOlietted Ml
ijmgg "I said tiitle was 110
servltes are the only ores 1 p.
foi Mr Hilleeple ' ;
"I would like the date of tho-e'
f hecks. ' 1
'Tile t'Ot I esnunli'lli'e exists now. I
went vest for Hlllesple last summer
.'iiiee tin, i.iii.iniiiinni.t ..r ,1... ...tnut , ti. .. .
- - ' ". t a 1 motif 111. it iirt.in tto
tlofl.ll iniiftitlon. I ten there :t w eek I .l ... . . '. 1
... . .. - - - - , , "itu ine inoveiiiein, out ine 111 liial In uiii
and I suspect hat's the last lino I made j of ,,. , . M,lun
a repo.t 1. wil Ing 1 know It wa- , ,.,.,.., , .V1U ...., ,,. ,,r(). .
"es. but what was the date of the , ,1,..,, n,.,.i ., ......
.lie,!, ' V. " ' " ' "''""
"I think 1 got l,0O'i befoie I
lllll'oornued h,- lletoll.
Mr lli.viin sent a telegram to da to
HepieM-ntative W. V. Halle of IV line j.
v.uii.i Strom) urging the p.i-s.ige of .1
bill of this character. It has hteu known
Urau u 11 in eyuipithy
I l 'fill, 11 1. us
went i.,1P .....i ....
intl 51.500 wa liald about thiee or four n, ., vir n. ...
vpiauaiioii- iii'.iiine im.i.
Hlleile'
oil 4llltlonetl.
Mr ejulgg said h" could not lentil
luonieut what kiiul of checks thev weie
what liank they weie
excused wlille T. II
Victor Sliuxeiiski Is .1 grandson of
Count Victor Staivetiskt. who wa a fa
mous I'iiIIsIi patriot an, I lieueral lie
was bin 11 111 this country, is an engineer
for Hie ilencral I'leetric Company, and
does not oriliniiiily use the title of
dinit. although lie I entitle
Ills wife Is a graduate of
School and of llrn Mawr.
I to tin mi, 1
the Vcltm 1
"llnls lift In l.eul "
I for one am slik and Hied of liaving
people sk me "Whit do ou suppose
your President will do now" Another
ship has been torpedoed and many nf
your American citizen have been rulh
iessly slaughteri d." Mv answer to tli.'lu
now Is. hats orr to the Aineric.-ui is
giop," Aniet leans of tin Ninth Ameri
can iniitlneut are not too pioud to light,
lis President Wilson Is presently golne
to llnd out.
riRhthu blood is thicker than .ifel
first diplomacy. Tin Kaiser Isn't wis
lo this yet. but he will he, and w lit 11
that time comes .Mr. Wilson will prob
ably welcome the chance to explain '.
him that the Ameiicaii Legion is one
breach of iieiilrallt over uhlcli he hart
no eontiol. Now. lu enso theie should
be by chance or mlscliatite any res -dent,
Von llernstorff agent, or hyphen,
nted spy who happens to be In search
of liiforma'lon about the American
legion and should want the concise, de
tailed and complete reports lu good
shape, suitable for tllltiit by th" Imperial
Herman Government lu Herlln. let him
hand In what follows with the coniiili-
nients of Lieut. -Col. Jolly and olllcers ol j weighed more than a pound, having
the Ninety-seventh Hattallon Canadian velocity siilllelcnt to kill a man. The
ISxpedltlonar Force, which Ih one of live 1 Bass passed elon to Sir. Astor's face
battailous that will foim the American and lu 1 "oiid mine lie would have
brigade which has been authorized, rauglit Its full foue.
' The A-tor .vailil Nmi.t auivt.l tn.ila
1,11111 "Horn 111 1 , .' . ntM p.uve fin lliivanu to;intn mw.
The tables are turned, Half a ceniury
ago, lu tho awful tragedy of the civil
war In the United Htittes, many thou
sands of Canadians crossed the lines, en-1
listed in American regiments and fought ! Mlnlter
for freedom and humanity on all tin.
great battlefields of the lenublli. To
day a new imttnllon fH being oiganlzcd
re haw heen iinnois
was read lo lead an
I open levolt In the part against l'icsi.
dent Wilson, and man nieiubeis of
1 ongts'ss aie hesitating now about ty
ing 1111 with him even m this movement
or 011 in regard to fuielfn nir.iiiu
Irawn. and In was vi,- Urvnir inmcn-iiiic. , il... m...
Mi'ltle Tlioiiuhl II Itlenl Foriii. ,1,,. w when ou might n't have a- 1 'xeuseii wnue 1. 11 i.lllespie, vit t-pi esl-, tore ha hi oiiuht lllioiit at least 01111 other
Mi. Smith a 11 gitl was abioad .1 . el talne d ju. i l-ely bat the bilslli. ss wa 1 u it 0 the .o up.m lin.l son or 1 A. , ,., u ,,,r situation It ,,uts Speaker
goo deal th her noil er. ..I long 'that !!,! .1 k lelated t b calling me : H'll"l"e. !"; the stand Ir. Uulgg sa ,f.k lu the p.v,tle f l.avmg lined up
befoie be e , g. g.' ,. n Vl . .. ... b i. I r , on th. tclepl.ore, but I will explain. ' ,lu" " " "'"'" distance but soon moved with 1,1 old enemy in opposition , ,h
mind thai Hi. tloublf foi,.. of niaiilage ! "A day o, two b.-lo.f Mi. ellll-sp.o el.'s.,- innoum-mg that he was son,.- dmlnlstiailou. For a long time after
teremony was th ideal foi m. Il was .m Hi. e heels to me he asked in. to Imve ' whai dear. the Italtinioie convention Mr. Itryau
-he who suggested the contrae I mar- lunclieon wltli him at tne l,.ivv.'is Club , What did the puitlon of ml- $J...i and .Mr. Clark vv.ie not 011 speaking
rliige to Victor Sl.irenskl lifter thlr I met him. ami we talked about two " general expense lepreseui ,1.1111s and ine atlciiipi of
engagement, and he also hked the ldi. niatleis, Ills 1 0ut1.11 1 with Hie .It for '' -Mr. -Mos.
So Ju-tlce Scinlder pfrfoitned the tlvlt :I. ,ii4ostioii of garbage and a sanlta- " ' portion that 1 thought be.
.(rdiiony and acknowledged the con- , MMem of sewiu;. dl-po-nl lie hud. longed to the T. A. tiille-ple lompati
tract Just before the Itev. dr IVrrv kl Ml ., t. Helum-,,-Wurl .-ere. n. "''I'' "1' ''" Mr Morse, the 1 0111-
Sthkney Hrant of the Chinch of the T.,,. ,,.nlte einplovnient at till . mui'e s i.cfoimiaiu, inai
Ascension, assisted t.y the Itev dr. ,,. ,)v a Rt,,., discussion, hut a I "' told I1I111 that 1 saw
Monte of S( henectady. peifoimetl the..,,. ' ,. ,,' . i, sent ine this check. 1 "bout the pipe line conipanv
Ml- ijulgg
date
the cheik s .lanuaiy la, 1
i'.'l.-
111. SUl! to 111. b!S COIttllirl Willi
tiie
leilglOUS l-er. Ilioot in ine tlllln'l (it Hie.....
........ ...1 1 ... .t... ' rn...t. ' '
Venn. riinn .11 tne t n i . - t..n i n .-i i ,
address. The full vesttsl cliotr of dr.
1, ram iiiniii. s.tiih in.- . h i.in-.it- , ...nine., , mute., .mil manv
papeis. and 1 went over the law of ti.e
matter as closely n I could and talk.d
. Ivtitli Mr Ciavath about it. advising him
that an action lay agaln-t tin cllv. it
vtas not biought, and that was the lid
t.r tl.e matter
l(llf atloneil h
'In
VI
AST0R HAS A NARROW ESCAPE.
sU)Hubt liliis In 7.t I'ool I'hII
Irnshe nl Ills Feet.
I'ai.m HBAi'H. 1-M.i . Feb 25. Vincent
Astoi hail a nartow escape here to-day.
lie was passing beneath a skylight sev-enly-llve
feet nls.ve the intunda of his
hotel when glass fell at his feet with a
tteni.'lidous eiasti Mime ui tiie pic
I'nper Sn Cmnlry
llel.ellloiiii (.'remit.
Mnslerilni.i
ChnrKeil
Fprctal t itbit littpalch In Tun Si n
Amstkkuam, via Loudon, Feb. 25.
Tiie Kvho Hclpr states that there was n
serious levoll in Herllu three days ato,
Cavalry clmrited a mob of cltUens
and It Is reported thnt more than 109
were killed.
In the dominion, tho Mliety.sevenlh of
Canada, composed wholly, throughout Its
ranks, nf men horn within tin culled
Stales.
These men, more than 1,100 ofllcers
and men, are enlisting for overseas ser
vice In the army of Canada on the
battlefields of Km ripe. They will be
known as the Ameiicaii Legion, and thev
also In their turn will light for the ever
ADVERTISING CHURCH'S ALLY.
I'olnl lii I'lll.llflO nm
l.renl tl milnge,
Cllli'vuo. Feb. 15 Mo.lci 11 inlvei Using '
as a powerful all of tjospil pteuchlng 1
was described heie to-day by t ie rg mi ll, I
who have qualim-d iiom nit teiigious
stnndpiilnt us "iidvcrtlslng expeits." The
occasion was a chun h iidvertisiug and
tiulillelt confeieiife In Id under the an
spices lif tin Adveltlslng Association of
Chicago at Will. 11. 1 Hull. A national
conference has been suggested.
Tho Itev Charles L. Stelzle, ex. pastor
Biiered rights of frecelom and humunltv. 1 of tin l.aiu- leiiipii. .-tew ion. , me
Willi HeUluni In the assassin Krp. Ih-v. curistiiiu iv.-isii.t ... .sew jora
with Poland under the oppressors heel, and tbe Hev. I'nul II. Jenkins of
with Serbia cruclllc.l. with Armenia waiikee wi ut or town speakers,
Mli.i.ehiere.l and with ilemocrncv the 1 Cnnfernlng the pioblem of what has
u'.trl.i over menaced bv ill snot Isni. lu . been term. .1 the "impossible chin cli," Hit
It any wonder Americans are crossing
the border to Join Ciiuailliins under the
i'nlon Jack, as Canadian once crossed
to Join Americans under Hie Slurs ami
.Stripes', The American Legion In Can
ada's army will he 11 pledge of North
America to the) world's democracy,
II,.. sanitation nutter I did a
gie.it ilea', to woili I nan n:s engineer,
with me and talked over Hie matte, with
him. I weiu 10 Aim Ail.or and Hi.ind
Itapids, Mich, for him and have It now
in hand, and Unit is1 the wlk.Ie of it,
nlr."
At this point Mi Mos took up the
voucher showing tin dlslilbution made
011 Mr 1 1 ill. si lie's book of the payment
,.r t -.du lie r-.inl oiii'-tlilitl nf It was
ll-lidlfd 10 pipe line, mi -II1I11I to g.u
Page ami oue.Hiiid to general cvipeuse.
'What Is meant Ity pipe. line. Mr.
I Jingg""
1 1 I do HOI keep Ills books." was the IC-
I jniiid I do not know "
"Can .vou explain what Is meant t
pipe llucV"
"It relalcs to sanitation "
"VSus thete lint about that time a
bill lu the Legislature Iftatlug to gar
bage disposal which would have ittteotctl
the lllllei-ple contliicl?"
"1 if ni own know ledge I know nothing
about II. except what I have seen 111 Ilie
newspapers. I bad nothing lo do with
the bill ill nil wa whatever, If lime
was such a bill."
"Vou had nothing to do with tint
garbage bill'."'
"NoihliU whalevci."
"did ou see any one In Alba 11 about
II""
"No."
"did the bill lelale in all wa) to
the suit which .vou advised Mr Hlllesple
lo bring'."'
"I never knew whal the bill was.
Fiom Hie newspapers I Judged It would
have In en lu Hlllenile's Inlet est. I have
never spoken to him or to an) one else
about It."
Had the bill pasecil would he not
What did vim tell Mr. Jlnrr abt.nt
geiieial expense "'
"I don't ictall '
I'erley Morse was then tailed to the
st. mil and asked to tell what voting Hi.
Usple had said to him.
"lie told Hie that it was about tins
time Unit the Thompson ..immittee was
appinnted and tliat Mi. ejulgg was mmc
or le-s familiar with the niemhcis of tin
Legislature and that (julgg advice! bis
father .u.out this committee'"
"Mr. Morse has refit shed me mi ni
or.v." inteiiuptcd Mr. elillespie. "I now
teenll that In iked Ine If gitn'lal ex
I'disf li.ul anything to h. with tin
Thompson cummlttff. I told lilm th it
inv t. tilier had liad talks with Mi. i;ugg
and tli.it tin) 111. iv li.iv,' hi, I MM1U-II1I114
to do vv illl this fotiimlttee "
"Who siiggestfil, .Mr. More," said
Senator Tlionipson, "that general ex
pense had something to do with this
eomtulttee-'
'Mr. Hlllesple did I was surprised to
I hear him say that, because the com
mittee hud not been unpointed until lifter
Die date of the check "
"He asked ine " Insisted Mi. Hlllesple,
"if II wasn't about that time that the
coinmittie was appointed and I said that
father had talked with Mr. tjulgg."
"Wheie is )Oiir l.ithtr'.'" asked Sena
tor I lionipson
chinch with ii constantly decreasing con-! i,,ui.',.sl th" contract with the city
Detleloua Peerfnot Farm NaiiM-r.
They cot more try them unit e whir,
Mle at the term, tiouthboroufb, Mi.
ff. v
gregatlon. Mr. stelzle ileciured in an In
tel view Unit when a church has appai.
ctitlv outlived its usefulness In the Held
It Is ulwas possible lu llnd a new out-
for Its Christian service by means oft
adveltlslng.
AUUK KM) OI TIMIS riNF.IIHKNT
Si'lllliel ll I'llS's. I'allldell tSllollim lle.nrta
flc.tr. Tennis. Seaboard All Line, till ll'wuy
, Mv,
"I dun t know, because I don I know
the provisions of the bill, but assuming
to be true what the newspaper sit), I
assume he would have, lost Hie contract,
and I wish he hud "
"did he tell ou so-"'
"I think I told hlni "
"did lie ktioiv Itr
"I suspect that he stispeclcd it "
Meanwhile tho photographers hdd
In Florida
"lias he made
cc ine I'.K k'.'"
"I don't know '
"Will )ou n'tul
tlnd out'.'"
"Ves"
"Hillispif iievei
the Legislature or
said Mr tjulgg
tune "No .me
llieir frleiidi
to have them bury tin hat.Jiet never
was mote than partially successful.
Heceiitl) (hero have been rumor that
f I lends (,f lli.viin and Clark hav.i been
working to bring them together and
that they have been making some heart,
wa) The appearance of th. ex-Secre-tai)
of State along with Speaktr I'lark
as one or the leader tn the House revolt
against Wilson will have the elfect of
Increasing Hi" gossip h, icgaul to their
political relation.
Mr. Ilrviin's telegt.im was us follow.:
I most earnestly hope that Congress
will speedily .iiinounce It glslntloii re
fusing pa.p,iits to Anietlcans trnx
tiling on belligerent ship, or still he),
t.r, i.'fu-iiig I'lear.ini'e to belligerent
ship c.itt.viug Ameiic.in passengers.
No owner of belligeient shl.s will
ti.iun that lie has the right lo safe,
guard a contiuhamt caigo with Atuerl.
. an llv-f, mid no eitueii should be per.
inlttfd to etiilauger tho pe.ic. of u na
tion at n t.nie tike this.
Our I- the greatest of the neutral
nations and will probably be the me
diator when the time for mediation
i omes. It would bo a crime against
i iviliatiou a well as against our own
people to become Involved in tins war
and Hni loan our army and navy to
a Hiiro pen n monarch to use m settling
his quarrel
If Congress lias the light to declaie
war it 1 ertainly bus the right to pro.
mote peace by if straining citizen Iiom
tilting unnecessary tlks
A Mayor keeps the people of 1 ,
ity out of the ilnnger zone during a
I riot. Can our Hoveinmeut afford lo
do less when the world is 111 ri "
any arrangements 1 1 1
Ol.Jeet o Leadership,
li 1 lifioinlng more appar.". tl.nlv
linn .1 telegiam t.el ih.n ' he ll.11 eitp In 1 'miRres oil tlte ipie-
Hon of arming merchantmen does 1 ot
jiepiesent a case of isolated d i:t 1 inr.i
spohe 10 im a limit 1 i(, I, wiui I'lesldeni Wilson so iimii l ,1
iIhmii till CllUlllllttl'
coming forward at this
ever has spoken to im
itli'iiit tills committee except the way
f.ner nbnig the public highway."
"Hut ou know, Mr. l.'ulgg." said Mr
Moss, "thai there I a Hlblleul provetb
lo the elTeft tliat 'Hie wayfaring man,
though 11 tool, need not err therein'"
"Ate )ou willing lo testify here again
ir we peed .vou'.'" asked Senator Tlionip
son. "Certainl) . if my clients wish nte to
testily "
"And )"ii will give us the dates of
those .hecks'."'
"Ye sir." said Mr tjuigg. bowing low
an, I leaving Hie loom
Lotus Matshall, who was eng ig( d by
HlIVS, Ilelslllleld .X Wolf to .llglie ine
I Admiral It'-nlty Cnmpan.v nise, apit:iiiil
la ,1 voliintiir) witness and gave a de
tailed .iffount of tliat litigation II.- said
he would stake Ills reptitntini .11 tin bur
I Coiitlutfcfi oa Jti'tllt 'Oit.
.1. c 11 nil 1 l.-t I tun of ilisfon'e
'.ulcislilp of the 1 1, 'in,, 1 intle
iiisira'lim
to esi'ut.
"MIS S,,Ht
ti a' ,.li.
I'.c p..
a, I .,.
rank
and that
of t
I l does
with his I
party
Tile lev. dt. Which tile iltl,
11, .w has iliiilfi' eo'itrol for f
present eveiv feature of .1 ,
In the dcmiici.r.lf paid I',.'
seivets here behove flat It 11
ginning of a period of whl.-.p
sill gene.v in tile I 'en, Of 1 .1 1 1
iiKiiinst Hie il-on b ml. .-Ini.
tin I'lfsnlciit w i' Iffl 1 1 e etlr
illl Ins legislative refoilfii. 11.1,11 , on it
well as In his handling "f l .i'e , .itYairs,
Till- is not intend. , I a- .1 i-ilnitcu
upon tin sin. fill) or manv 1 ic men
who have joined m the upi is ng against
Hi. I'resiilfiii Mini) si em lo be a. tuated
le, a tlrin belief that vv.11 inii-t lie uoidtil
oil Ilie subtil if'O" ss ie
1 .1 1 els, however, have had grievances
of long -landing again! Ih" Admlln
uiti..n ni nave ben rent) ami willing
1.1 in,. ,. ' t'a nii.civcs tliat the I'rcsl
den's , tiuiigc ibli ciinise on the suh
I mailuc issuu warranted a refusal longer
