I - ; -
VOL. 52 ITQ. 49
BRIDGEPORT, CONN., SATURDAY, FEB. 26, 1916
PRICE TWO CENTS
if'
ANSONIA STRIKE
TO END MONDAY,
IAY0R ASSERTS
; t l
.j
r-a
-
J
Executive Announces - That
Laborers Have Voted To
Accept Increase. .
.'
I n
v . ..
- ' . ..
imp r?FiFRRfinfp
Judge J. B. Sanf ord Victim I
of Incendiary Third Time;
."Within Two Years. When
He Loses Barn Where
Ridge's New Chemical En-
gine Was, Housed Only
- - Partly Insured. .
Volunteers Slow in Respond-
ing To .' Alarm, For Early
Horning Fire .d Build
ing: Falls Before AidvAr-
-rives Suspect Marauder
IBoredlHole In Structure
;To Seii It Aflame. ; ' 1
' , T kSpecial tft.TOe Famef.) V
Redding; Feb-i ! 26.. Another -was ad
"ded to . Redding' S; long list, of incen
diary fires 'and. the' destruction this
morning of a .largo new.barn 'located
at Redding Center and owned by J. B.
San ford, town clerk, and Judge of pro-
hate.- -. '-::,rr.i.- -:rT;y. -.-;.f
The flames were', first seen at 2J
o'clock by Charles Hingle, living about
half a mile away. v He , and hift son
hurried -to the scene and "pounded
' long at the door,ot the Sanf ord house
before -any of the dozen or .more in
mstesv vaa Awakened., , Youhg Hingli
ran to the barn where the flames were-
burning briskly-In ' .the - northwest
corner, but ::iockedjdoors "barred ' hia
entrance. '.'-v"-'v-' ,! T: ''c - ' '
- j! Judge Sanford arrived sd6n. after,
and the live stock in the building con
sisting of -eight cows and three horses
were removed from danger. - Smoke
had . not penetrated- enough, to, cause
their suffocation. .There were burned,
however,1 several -wagons; -a. sleigh and
farm implements,; and among the
' property destroyed wasr st'new- hem-';
ical engiije recently, purchased by the
Redding Ridge fire-department,' which
arrived only about a "week ago and
-was lemporairly ;.stored on; the upper
floor near the hay mow, , where the
blaze oriErinated-V'- S :: h
-- JAy belated, alarm -was -sent. througH"
tZ-ss local telephone" exchange but
aroused very few from their slumbers.
E. M.' Bradley, - he ''fit the first.' who
heard it, managed to -summon 'Rev
Raymond Cunningham, the Are chief.
There was; a- long-delayesd -response tat
the Sanford school,; -where -one -of the
chemical, engines Is kept.;. At length,
however, this machine And-' the ' one
housed by President H- 'S. Barnes, , to
' gether with the truck kept by ; Mllo
OsborneA were connected and ready
-to start, when word was phoned that
the apparatus could give 'Jrto service
as the barn was past help and the
Sanf ord- house in no - danger, having
teen- saved by a strong northwest
wind," which" blew the flames x in the
opposite airection. .-
. The; insurance on the building and
i contents was $8-00. " The loss outside
of the chemical engines was fully $2
600.' Whie .the circumstances strong
ly support tne arson meory,- me raci
that tfae building - was -locked, tends
I again -to -the; :" supposition -'- that the
Maze-, was "started inside. A "The place
f origin, in the hay mow, was a. part
; of the building that no one belonging
on the premises, had entered in sev-
- eral weeks'. - The" building" was lock
ed, at 5:3? yesterday afternoon, " and
possibly 'before "that tinie a tramp
went inside." . It would be easy how-
ever, to bore ' a, fhole. through the sid
ing and "insert . niatch or lighted can
dle." A ' close examination this morn
ing of ,the ctairred timber at the cor
ner , shows -ftoe, prints of an auger.
Thi9 circumstance is regarded as a
definite clue, V y." " ' ' "
This Is - Judge '' Sanf ord's ' third fire,
all bt them "supposedly incendiary.
The first occurred in January, -j 9 13,
when -a "building used, as a creamery
'.. and" -stored rwas "burned with a loss of
about- $2,000 on which there was' hoi
, -insurance.- The second 'Was "April
11 of- last year, when the main barn
on the premises was destroyed, with
several head of live stocq and farm
implements, causing a 'loss only part
ly, insured. r-rj ;.r.-.;.j-.. , - -
The town ' off eredx then a. reward of
$500.. -- This has-not been productive
of -any results; - It etill stands.- '
HHE L1AN S100?
FOR HAVING BAR
in ins kiTCHEr
Stanley Toimaski, - of 324 Willard
street, arraigned in the city ourt this
morning, - charged -with violating .-the
excise law and selling to patrors with
out - having a . proper license for the
iy-Juige Frank L, .Wilder. Toraas-ki f
paid the fine. ... . ; .... .', ..
Tomaeki said he was holiing'a wed
ding celebration in honor of his daugh
ter, Mary Tomoskl, who had been wed
two weeks previous. There was plenty
of musio and ' plenty of beer ' in the
kitchen of -th Toaiaski home.
The news got about that anyone
could have a fine time at the Tomaski
home, providing " they had a litt's
money. Andrew Kasko and Stanley
Berang were put out of his home, af
ter a quarreh , Thennhey went to the
second precinct station and complained
that Tomaski wa elhng liquor. Ser
jeant Thomas Flood and Liquor Agent
John Browne , raided the - Tomaski
house. Two of the frequenters were
arrested, charged with drunkenness,
end were fined J5 and costs in the city
court Monday moe-T. - ,- .
I
COULDN'T SEE
AHEAD, ASSERTS
CAR r.lOTOPu.'Af
Rain-Bespattered Glass: and
Mist Contributed To '
Shaw's Death. : :
: That he could not see"' Conductor
Walter Shaw because of the mist and
thpxair bespattered condition of the
windows in- the vestibule of I the ; car
he "was - operating was the statement
Abraham --GalDerin 'of.-! 170 Williston
street made to Coroner o! JPhelan
today... ....:v -.. ,': v ' - 'J;:vi-"Jtlt-i, ';c
. Galperin was operating the . car
which ran down and killed!, "Conductor
Shaw, at.- 8 o'clock at -Ash Crefcbridge
last night. . - - .- -
It is claimed ihat Shawtwas at fault
because, believing he was. n-t . the ...endv
of the jllne he- Jumped frctih the- back
platf orrri "of his- car-, and puU4si down
the trolley pole, fin" conseq.uence:th'e
car was in darkness ;ahd Galperin
says that he did not see the . car: -or
see Shaw until he was two feet (be
hind him. - Shaw was crushed between
his own car; and the car Galperin -was
operating.-' Shaw"s right leg, was-- cut
off 'rabere--:'the . knee and " ifaerleft: leg
above tM ankle. . - .
r ,JPatrick-j! Mooney pt yl&XA Main
street,! motorman of the -car of. which
Shaw, was in charge, said that another
car was aheadr of them and had run
into. ' the " switch - -preparing to turn
back-. He said it would .have been
necessary ': "for his -car to .-have gone
farther -ahead before turning ' .back,
but evidently Shaw ;Selieved he was at!
the end .of the. line. 5 In- the-storm,.ihd
rain ' he-' thought Shaw;- became con
fused. - He aid he was able to see .only
by wiping off the' windoww of his-, ves
tibule, -f He could not understand why
Galperin did .-not see -Shaw.: ' . , . - -
.:3a-lperinsaJidT that he got -oft his
car at Clinton avenue an d there wiped,
the'siean and mist from vrinowjj
of the vestibule. He intended to; wipe
thm again at the end of the line at
Ash Creek. He said he could only see
two feet ahead of the car -fnd- did
n6t believe be could see 15 feet ahead
if the pole had . been on Shaw's care
and the ear lighted. -' ' '. ' ;
Other .witnesses were Clifford Clark
of. 568 East Main street, conductor, of
Moonejrs car, and Maurice Green- of
869 Main street, who was learning the
duties of motorman. It was his first
day out for "the latter. - ,
Shaw was 28 years old and leaves a
wife and one child. He came to. this
city' from - Providence where-he . had.
worked as a street car man.' He had
1 worked in Bridgeport for about three
weeks. ' ."!.:-.
After Shaw- had been ; crushed be
tween , the cars Ga-lperiif backed his
car and " the trolleymen '- carried T the
desperately injured conductor to a sa
loon just over. Ash Creek bridge where
a telephone, message was sent for the
ambulance, " - Shaw was taken :to. St-
"Vincent's hospital but died -Just as: h
w placed on the operating table.
His body; is at the morgue of CulUnan
& .Mullins, being prepared for burial.
His brother. James' -Shaw, came here
from. Providence last night and ' took'
charge of--jthe dead man'-, affairs.- The
body -will be sent to Richmond, a.,
for bu-riaL ; : , ' , . . , :. v
J Compensation commissioner Edward.
T. Buckingham sat with Coroner Phe-
lan during the examination today. The
commissioner would make no comment
on the case. ' ; ''"-'-si j-r. '--:. .-::
Fairfield Inmate
; At; Norwich Again
Makes An Escape
After being given - the. freedom of
the court surrounded by 'a brickcwall
at the Norwich State hospital, advan
tage pf the guards was taken at 7
o'clock this morning by William) Tet
rosk; of. Fairfield, an inmate . at the
institution,: .and he escaped from the
asylum. - -.:-- . --v ' - - --'-. .
A telephone message-was received
at police headquarters at ,10 o'clock
this morning asking the police to- be
on the lookout for Tetrosk, who is be
lieved to be headed this way. Until
a short time ago he was violent. .
-Tetrosk 'was sent' to Norwich' more
than a year ago. While being trans
ported he jumped through the win
dow of an express train, near Mil-
ford, and made his escape. . . He was
finally captured' in this Mjity. ; '
. J.11B ueaurnjuuu lurwaraea tne po
lice -this' morning say that Tetrosk
has a scar over the right eye,' one on
the right temple and a flattened nose,
all "caused by. Injuries he received
when escaping from the train. . -
WORCESTER CONCERN .
'MAKES' SEARCH HERE "
FOR FORMER EMPLOYES
-A
representative of a machine
manufacturing concern :in - Wor
cester, Mass.; is making a house to
house, canvass in this city, appeal
ing to the civic pride of Worcester
machinists to return there and
work for his firm. x. , .
This is .the. report that has been
made to , George m J.- Bowen, busi
ness agent of the j Machinists.' un
ion. - The wages paid by the Wor
cester concern are less than may
be obtained here, according to the
union report.
J
- THE WEATHER
' Overcast tonight - an Sunday.
Colder tonight. West gales.
SCHUMACHEH SEIZE
PARADE OF WORKERS
Leaders Claim Victory In
Concession Granted By
V the Company.
Ansonia, Feb.' -26 -Mayor Schumak-
er of this city, this noon, announced
that , the .. striking laborers of the
American Brass 'Co. in . their group
meetings, . have voted' to' return to
work Monday morning, accepting the
advance offered by the company.
The conference withthe company's
officials - will be short, according to
Joseph H. Grohol, who throughout
the trouble has had the situation firm
ly .in hand. The general, committee
will' ' say : that the strikers will re
turn 'Monday.::
Grohol obtained permission: for. a
parade of the strikers about 4 o'clock.
and .he invited- Mayor . Schumaker to-
be in . the": front rahkv The mayor
declined ."to do this but offered to re
view the column.. ':' As the strikers
number . 2,500. . and . nearly as - many
meniand wo'men.liave- been in enforc
ed idleness, "it "is" expected the: parade
will be of large' proportions. The
strikers .claim to have won $he strug
gle? x.x--y---;' ; - ' i
The - company - gave anen per cent:
increase effective Feb. 1 4 and anoth
er: one effective il' these two. making
15 per cent,' with the I -understanding
that-nq man receiving less than. $2.50
a ' day should : receive- less , than ' 2 5
cents "a day increase. -. The company
grants time. a:jda half for overtime,
Sundays and. holidays;.- Piece . rates
will- be adjusted so- tfyat wages will be
the same as others receive. . Piece
workers will - be notified each day
what they "earned the - day bef orej No j
favoritism , will be shown to any na
tionality and - reasonable protests will
be constfdered.- .
JUDGE 17ILDER
HAQ DM771 C IM
LiOTORIST CASE
Must Decide Whether or Not
It's Legal For Salesman
To Borrow Car. 7
A nice legal question has., arisen
over the case of Luke Fordal, of
Stratford, who' is accused by Attorney
Frederick E. ' Morgan of -97 "Vine St.,
of having taken "the-; latter's automo
bile from a garage without the per
mission of , thje owner. ' In - order to
allow - time for further - iitqniry , into
the statutes relative tp ' taking an au-'
lomribile without "the permission of
theu owher,: Judge ('Frank L. Wilder in
city court to lay. continued the case
of . Fordal - until 4 one week from , to
day.. , ' ; ' , n ' .:';
-, On January 28,' Fordal saw an ad
vertisement in' a Jocal paper for the
sale of an automobile bV Morgan. He
called upon Attorney Morgan at his
office .in .the Newfield building and
A an? agreement was reached between
the two.- Fordal was to get all over
$200 he would -receive for thei sale
of: the car. - -The machine Was in 'a
Stamford garage and Fordal was; al
lowed - to get the car. V He "was to
have a white handkerchief in his left
hand - to establish -his identity. . -i '
t Fordal procured the ; machine and
on- his way . to this city with it a gear
snapped. The machine, was towed to
Peck & Lines' garage in Middle street
and Fordal repaired the, machine free
of charge. : i - : . " . -
Tie then procured a prospectiye
buyer-in the proprietor of the New
Tork Shoe Repairing Shop at Ogden
and William - streets. . , He- took the
ear from Peck '&. Lines' garage and
drove -to New Haven .on a trial trip.
He did not have ( the -probable buyer
with him on the trip. . ,'
' While near Wood mont, Fordal al
leges, the gears locked and .the caf
went into 'a ditch, damaging it con
siderably. ' It was towed to a gar-.
age in New Haven and repaired. For
dal notified Attoriley Morgan of the
accident, and the latter forwarded a
chek for $15 as payment for repairs,
to the car. The cost of repairs fin
ally totalled ' f21.31 ' and Fordal add
ed $3 to the L5 forwarded him by
Morgan. There is still $3.32 due for
repairs to the machine. '.
Attorney Morgan anxiously awaited
the-return of the. machine to this city
and it -.was fully a week before it was
returned.'according to Morgan.
He asserts that Fordal .. had no
right to take the car the second time
without his permission. Fordal act
ed as" his own counsel during the trial
in city court this morning and he
asked Judge Frank L. Wilder if It
was not legitimate for. a salesman to
take a machine with which to dem-
trate without asking permission of
the owner. ;:
As the prospective purchaser was
not in the car, at the time of the last
accident it is a question if Fordal
took the machine to demonstrate or
have a joy ride. There was much
discussion relative to the statute gov
erning a case of this nature and Judge
Wilder ordered, a' continuance for one
week. In the, meantime he will thor
oughly- investigate the statutes gov
erning a case of this -nature. :
MACHINISTS ITS' STRIKK VOTE.
New Haven, Feb. 26 The machin
ists and their helpers in the New Haven-
road shops here &.st their, ballots
on the question of a strike last night
and the votes in sealed envelopes went
to Boston, todav. -
---- ".--"'--''--. . '. . 'T - -I - , ' . . .
TALY, . ANSWERING .U.S.. r
6UNS ONLY FOB IEFEISE
. - ' -. ' y . r- ' ' - ' . '
Washington, Feb.
2 6 Secretary
Lansing announced today that one of
the entente allies had replied - to his
suggestion " for ; the disarmament of
merchant ships..,. He declinecr to give
the nature -of the reply : or to tell from J
whifch government it came, saying he
probably would make the replies puh
lic when-they were received.
Although - Secretary Lansing .declin
ed to tell the name of the replying
power it was learned that it was. Italy
and that the reply' was argumentative
rather, than conclusive. It was point
ed out that the Italian, liners give
pledges not to use their armament ex
cept for defense, when, clearing . frpi
American waters. ; . ; i
The state department hasv expected
a"-joint reply y all the allies and' the
receipt from only one was a surprise
to officials.. , - v . ; - t - '
Secretary Lansing ' made it clear, '
however, that he did,- not consider
there "was any difference of ' opinidn
between1 any of the governments in
volved in the submarine" negotiations ,
mam
Washington, Feb. -26- With the ap
parent quieting down of. the situation
in ' Congresftr the submarine crisis
shifted bacfe' to the ! negotiations , be
tween 'Secretary Lansing and: Count
Von ; Berhstorff. , ' ' -
Mr. LSnsing said today there was no
intention 1 of transfering the negotia
tions to. Berlin, to. be ;. conducted be
tween -Ambassador Gerard and Berlin
foreign office, as was intimated in
despatches published, abroad, , and " re
iterated that the state department had
heard nothing. more,from Germany on
its. request for-a declaration that the
new submarine campaign , would . not
beconduct"ed in violation of previous
assurances'-for the safety of Americans
traveling on resisting liners.
austria seeks
more data on
tanker Attack
"Washington, Feb.- 26 Austria, sup
plementing her.. request for more in
formation concerning the American
protest against the submarine, attack
on the American steamer 'Betrolite in
the Mediterranean, has informed the
United States that her, version of the
affair is that the submarine comman
der thought the , Petrolite was 'an en
erny ship disguised under the Amer
ican flag;; that he fired upon her as
the ship changed her course, and he
believed she was about to. ram ' him,
and that the Fetrolite's. captain -Vol-hntarily
furnished provisions :to the
submersible. ; " , .
- Secretary Lansing said today that,
Austria's , communication was" not " a
reply to the American protest and
could not) be considered either ac
ceptable - or ' unacceptable. - The
American version of the affair' is that
the submarine fired . upon the tanker
injuring her and that, when the Fe
trolite.'s commander ' refused to fur
nish , provisions the Austrian com
mander took an American of the Fe
trolite's crew on his submarine and
held him as a hostage until he got the
supplies. . 1 ' .
All the facts available to the state
department have been sent to "VHenna
and a ' f urther,reply is being await
ed. . : -
CONTINUE ALLEGED
- BAG SNATCHEK'S CASE
- In . city court this morning, Judge
Frank L. Wilder ordered - a continu
ance in the case of Joseph Reidy, age
2 6, .of Worcester, Mass., charged with
highway robbery, until Tuesday morn
ing under bonds of $500.
Reidy is alleged to have stolen 3.44
from -the handbag . og Mary Comstock
of 503 Fairfield avenue, as she was
leaving a restaurant in Fairfield ave
nue shortly after midnight. 1
RUSSIANS TAKE PERSIAN CITY
London, Feb.' 26. A Reuter des
natch from Petrograd says that the
Russians have taken by storm Ker
manshah, the important Persian city
in the neighborhood ofwhich serious
fighting has recently taken plaee.
regarding the principle involved.
The - department considers that the
German and Austrian governments in
their memorandum clearly - inferred
that; their intended action was a de
parture from the recognized princiA
.pies of .international law which -they
deemed, aiecessaj-y because, of changed
conditions. ''."- , :
-Secretary .Lansing considers that
had the German and Austrian, govern
ments .been of the opinion that ' tiheir
action was not a. departure from in
ternational -jaw they .would, have is
sued no memorandum but would have
proceeded, to carry out 'their intentions
and attempted to Justify them later.
- Secretary Lansing said., he was un-
able to announce at this time whether
the United States : would enter into a
discussion of what might properly : be
considered ' defensive armament. , He
ihdioated, however, that such a dis-
-cussion. would properly be entered into
providing the question had not been
raised . by Germany at this time and
that, the, state department considers
an announcement on the subject would
be premature. .
While the situation in Congress, ap
parently, is being held in (check by the
administration - leaders, the state de?
partnSent' continues to await receipt of
-certain appendices to the Austro-Ger
man notice which are intended td
demonstrate that British armed mer
chant ships have-used their guns of
. They are coming by mail and Secre
tary Lansing has said that until he has
had an, opportunity to study the evi
dence the.state department would be
unaoie to aeraa& exacuy wnai lis posi
tion would be. . - ' T
In the situation as it . now stands!
President Wilson is firm in his deter
mination to insist on the rights of
Americans -, to- travel . on ships- armed
for defense only, f
THREE ATTEMPT
TO IDENTIFY IM
KILLED IN WRECK
No
identification - of the - body
of
Patrick
v
known -
Connor or Collins, . the un
irian killed in the railroad
wreck last Tuesday, had been made
up to press hour : today. -The body
is still at Cullman' & Mullins' morgue.
Three persons have notified the un
dertakers that they think he may toe
related to them. ' .' -.-'
Mrs. John J. Collins of 2609 Nau
dian street, Philadelphia has written
asking that a description of the dead
man be sent her, She' thinks he
may be her nephew.' I" .
Today a man who" said he was Wil
liam Hartmann of 4769 Boston ave
nue, telephoned the morgue. He
said he was a cousin of the dead man
and asked' that the body be held until
he could notify other relatives and
claim' the body. ' At press hour Hart
mann had not appearedand there is
no N. 4769 in Boston avenue. '
The , undertakers also received a
telephone message from Mrs. Patrick
Connor at Mt. Vernon, N. TV, who said
she thought the body might be that
of her- husband' and that she was
starting " for , Bridgeport 1 to try and
identify it. She said 1 her husband
had come. to Connecticut in search of
work at one -of the Arms plants. She
thought he might have gone to New
Haven.. '.'.'- v - 1
. . The body in the morgue is that of a
man" apparently 50 years of age about
(Continued on Page 2 . ,
Haines Sleeps Well
( Af ier Opening of Trial
Jason S. Haines, now oh trial in
the superior court for the murder of
his wife, , slept well in the county
jail last night. He in no way seems
depressed, according to his keepers,
and has . expressed pleasure at the
rapid progress of the trial for he
is anxious to know his fate.
Neither' counsel nor friends visited
him toda. His sons who have
made it .a practice to eall upon him
every Wednesday, are notexpetted to
call during the week end. His trial
will be resumed at 10 o'clock Tuesday
morning.
Fort Douamont, One of Outer Defenses of - Import---
ant French Stronghold, Falls Before Terrific
Onslaught Disregarding Sacrifices, Germans
Push Forward Under Direction of Kaiser
French Admit That Situation is Becoming!
Serious. ' '
Berlin, Feb. 26 ;It is officially announced that Fort Douau7
mont, one of the fortifications of Verdun, was taken by storm,
yesterday afternoon and is now firmly hedby the Germans.
The official announcement is as follows:' v ;N
s "The armored fort Dpuaumont, the northeastern corner;
pillar of the permanent main line fortifications of the strpn-i
hold" pf,yerdun,, was stormed yesterday afternoon, by the 2ithr:
regiment of Brandenburg' infantry and is' now firmlyin Ger-7
man hands." ' " ' -
' Sacrifice Disregarded, Says Paris; .
Paris, Feb. ,26 -The Germans are continuing their violent)
attacks north of Verdun without, regard to thir sacrifices, .the
war office announced this afternoon. ' --
v' The German' attacks jn the -region of : Beaumont, east of the j
Meuse, have failed, the war office said, notwithstanding repeat-'
ed attacks and tremendous slaughter. ' -
London Awaits Confirmation
' London, Feb. 26 The only word concerning the German
claim to taking the armored fprtress of Douaumoht, outside of
Terdun, comes, through German sources. Further information
is awaited anxiously owing to the recognized strategic import
ance of this fort, which is the base' of solid field works on a line
of hills 1,000 feet high, about six miles northeast of Verdun.
Hfiiailed information showed the French" holding the lines
2 1-2 miles Jjeyond Douaumont with .this powerful fortress and!
4ls field works giving steady support. ,
iTii
urn
Rome, Feb, 26 The- report
that Durazzo; an Albanian port
on the Adriatic Sea, has been
evacuated" by the Italian troops
stationed there, is confirmed.
TWO BRITISH STEAMERS
ARE REPORTED SUNK
-.- - , , ' ?
tiOhdoni FeS. 26. Lloyds announces
the sinking of the British steamers
Denaby, of '2,987 tons, and the Tum
mel, of 531 tons. . '
Seven members of the Crews are
missing. , Of the survivors - who were
pickedup, tw6 died. '
' ' .
.. To Inspect Jap Camps
- Tokio, Feb. 26 -The Japanese gov
ernment has.granted - the request, of
Germany to permit an official inspec
tion of detention cainps.v in which
German prisoners of war are - con-
fined.' -'.'."- .
- Asks About Peace .Terms
London, Feb. "26 Philip Snowden,
Socialist members of the ; House of
Commons from Blackburn, has given
notice that he intends, to ask Premier
Asquith on Tuesday , whether the Bri
tish gavernment ascertained from all
the allies of this nation, before the
conclusion of the ' agreement not to
make a separate peace, what their ob
ject was in the war and what they
expected . in the way of guarantees.
territorial concessions and trade and
economic opportunities. '
DuPont Powder Co.
1 Earns $57,840,758
r During Past Year
New Tork, Feb. 26 The E. I. Du
Pont -de "Nemours Powder Company,
which has received enormous war or
ders - from the allied governments.
earned a . total of $57,840,758 during
the year ended Dec. 31, 1915, accord
ing to its annual report' made public
here today. : This is . an increase of
$52,237,605 over its earnings the prev
ious year. -The company's balance for
didivend payments on its common
stock was $55,542,25 or 94 3-10 per
cent, on the $58,854,200 of that issue
outstanding. '.'.; "
The E. I. Du Pont Powder Com
pany recently declared an 'extra divi
dend of 22 pr cent., of which' 19
per cent, was , paid in Anglo-French
bonds to the amount of $16,000,000.
i " '
RUSSIANS KOCT TURKS
London, Feb. 26.- The Amsterdam
correspondent of the Central News
learns that heavy fighting has taken
place ten mile sfrom Bitlis between
Russian and Turkish Iroops, the for
mer coming from the direction of
Maas. The Turks fought bravely but
were obliged to retire before superior
forces. '-'
00H
llMZZQ
DOLfAMONT MOST 4
IMPORTANT OP i
FRENCH FORTS
I Fort, Douaumo'nt - lies -four-- milea
northeast .of.. Verdun, ; It is one of
nearly, a score of forts circling Ver
dun and'-is situated ( just - to the . north
of the railroad running north of the
city, of ,Metz. D.ouaumont is one ' of '
the cluster- of seven forts protecting
Verdun from the east. Forts De
Sauville, De Tavanes and " St.' Michel
lie directly between the position con
quered by the Germans and the . city
of Verdun. The conquest : of this
fort was -made by the right wing ' of
the huge attacking army which has
scored , the greatest advance in the(
assault on the French positions). Dau-1
aumont is somewhat to . the east of $
what has hitherto been the princt-1
pal line of progress, being situated
four miles east of the Meuse - river.
The main force of the German attack j
as indicated, by the previous "official j
communications, . was being" exerted
southward along the Meuse.
The .capture of Douaumbnt is the;
most important achievement since the
inauguration of the German drive at
Verdun an onslaught which for fury
and for weight of men and guns has
few precedents in the war. -. The
French war office has expressed con
fidence that, notwithstanding the ad--'
mitted great strength of the German I
drive, Verdun and its protecting f ort-i'
resses would be able to hold out. These j
positions form what has been regard-
ed as one of the greatest strongholds
of Europe. '
- It : is the strongest . fortress of
France and is -of particular import
ance from the fact that it offers direct,
communication ,with Paris,, which ' i3
150 miles west Verdun marks the
northerly point of the . great French,
defenses against direct attacks from
German territory;, the most southerly
being Belfort, as between these two
points lies the stretch, of frontier on
which Germany touches ; France,
France has other fortified points fur
ther north, ' though of 'minor import-
ance as they were along the . line of
contact . with . Belgium . and Luxem-j
burg. The smost important, proba- j
which was taken by the Germans with
sacrifices ' to them estimated at the.
time,- in September,- 1914, as between '
80,000 and-140,000. -Since that date
no- important fortress ha fallen to
the Germans on the western front. At
the same period a desperate effort
was made to reduce Verdun and some;
of the incidents of the fighting which
then occurred were of a - memorable,
character. During the; siege of Fort
Troyon, near .Verdun, in September,"
1914, the commander of the fort ceas-j
ed.to reply to the bombardment. The!
Germans, it , was said, believing that i
the fort had been evacuated, appear
ed in order to destroy a redoubt- The j
commander of the fort then set fire j
to two carloads of straw inside the ,
structure and the Germans, convinced,
that their shells had started the fire
and that , they could; easily take the;
place, advanced in close formation.
The French suddenly, brought their.;
machine-guns to bear with a deadly.;
fire and the bodies of .7.000 Germans :
were said , to have been abandoned,
on the slopes below Fori-Troyon.
A despatch "from London of yester
day's date 'says that Major General
Sir Francis Lloyd, general officer
commanding the London district. In a,
v .(Continued on Page 2.
