4
WEATHER
MARKETS
NEW YORK CITY
Average price of cop
per for week, ending
Feb. 2327 Cents.
Arizona Cloudy
MEMBER ASSOCIATED CRESS
VOL. 18, NO. 234.
BISBEE, ARIZONA, SATURDAY MORNING, FEBRUARY 26, 1916.
PRICE FIVE CENTS.
lit
GERMAN LOSS
5 150,800
1 H
BATTLE
Teuton Offensive Only Beginning
Of Colossal Effort, Is Belief Of
Experts. Fortnight Battle Pre!
dieted
"LOVE LETTERS" IS "
. TITLE OF HER BOOK
GERMANS NU ' BER
300,000 STRCfcG
Teutons Have Prepared For At
tack Since December. Flower,
Of Germany Army Fights In
Presence Of Emperor
1
v
PARIS, Feb. 25. The Gprnian Iosh
rs in the first few days of the bttle pf
I ' I
CAUSTIC
IT ML
RUSSIANS DRIVING TOWARD TREBIZOND ON THE BLACK SEA
Admiral Winslow Declares That
Only Radical Change Can
' Mak American Navy Equal Of j
British In Fifty Years
jBOVSSHOUID !
' ENLIST E3I Y!
j
I Whole Plan Of Kavr.1 Education!
Said To Be Wrong. Winslow
Unlooses Scathing Denuncia-i
tion In Congress
Elsie Janis.
Elsie Janis, the Elsie who every-
! Wa-Milnston. Feb. 2.",. Ti e I'niied i
j Ktat" Navy's whole Fystcn of cov-1
lernnicn: :ir.d otn'ro.Lion from the edu- !
jca'ion of its officers to questions of j
I ship gun construction, were sharply 1
(criticised before the House Naval cam-
niittoo bv Ad irnl Winslow, command-
inp the Pacific fleet. Winslow dcelar-;
jed that without radical changes a ful-
rcien: fighting force, comparable
nrrrntly only the beginning of an ef-j her even with a notethat same El- o he British ravy. could not be1
fort to take the fortress, formerly the! sie has written a book and, jrues I produced in fifty years. j
key to the French Tronticr. It rora-i what its about: "Love Letter of
pares in violence with the losses to j " Actress"' is the title.
Verdun are estimated at 150.000. The! Lodv thoueht was so well iruardeJ
Ger ran offensive is recognized as ! bV " CP
the battle of he Yser. The French j
b:itt!e may continue a rortnlgnt. it is
telieved the calm of last night was
only a lull required to bury the dead,
dispose of the wounded and bring up
reserves to supplant the divisions half
destroyed by the French artillery and
n.achine guns. The German forces
am known to be at least 300.000 men.
The Germans are supported by num
erous fifteen and seventeen inch mor
tars, all of the heavy artillery used in
the Serbian campaign, and part of
that formerly used on the Russian
front. Preparations for the bombard
ment were observed early in Decem
ber when the first troops, assigned to
the operation were brought up. Eight
divisions which returned from Ser
bia were sent sent to Belgium to rest
and then transported to the region of
Verdun in January. Five army corps
are known to have been brought to
reinforce two corps previously hold
ing that part of the line between
Etain and Vauquers.
These were the best troops of the
the German ary, including it is learn
ed fro m prisoners, the famous Third
corps of Bradenburg, supposedly the
equal in valor to the Prussian Guards;
also the Fifteenth Army Corps corn
known in France as one of the riiost
brilliant German general officers. The
resoluteness o fthe Germans to cap
ture the fortress is explained by the
fascination that the name Verdun had
to the minds of the Germans, since
1792, consequently the moral value
DISTRICT G. 0. P.
PERFECTS CLUB
Z
Warren District Republican Club
Announces The Selection Of
Officers For Coming Year Of
Politics
The permanent organization of the
Warren District Republican Club was
perfected last evening and officers
chosen for the administration of its
business during the coming year. Next
week a meeting the organization will
be held at which time a complete tick
et, for the city's coming election, will
be announced and petitions will have
been circulated and filled.
Bertram L. Smith was elected Pres
ident o fthe club. The other officers
of the organization are as follows:
E. J. Flanigan, vis president; D. W.
Williams, secretary and R. A. Ziese
nier, treasurer.
Added interest was had at the meet
ing last evening with the announce-
Yesterday Winslow toid the commit-!
tee the establishment of a general j
staff composed of active line officers j
was a vital necessity. Today he am
plified the view and declared the sys-
jtem o feducation at Annapolis was
wrong. He urged the restoration of
the old grade of midshipmen in the
fleet.. Beys should enter the service
at the age of fourteen" and sixteen
years ,he said, and should spend two
years in preliminary training ashore
before they go to sea, "acquire sea
habit" from actual contact of things
of the sea before completing ihir
education ashore.
He declared the polytechnic educa
tion, given midshipmen at the acad
emy was entirely instituted to the
training of men to handle ships or
combinations of ships at sea. He saw
no value to be gained from making
all navy officers experts in higher
mathematics. He thought construc
tors, engineers and ordnance experts
should be trained specialists, and
never required to command ships.
P'
r
1 V . ' , III.
SUBMARINES
! STILL M.
CAUSING
WORRY .
I
'Congress Enjoys Brief Respite
From Long Debated Matter.
Bryan Injects Himself Into The
i Turmcil
PRESIDENT IS
! WELL SUPPORTED
Senator Stone Says It's Too Ear
i ly To "Get Jimjams' London
Papers Pleased At Wilson's At
titude
to is fall to the Germans. This is the ment that O. P. McRae will be. the op-
psychological reason. In judgment of
official critics, that explains the pres
ence of Emperor William behind his
(roops. ,
The French compare the ground the
Germans gained in four days with
twice that amount the French took in
the first two days of their offensive
in Champaign, together with eight
times the number of prisoners. The
French confidence 1j unshaken by the
fierce attacks and the slight bending
of the French lini.
View1 of Trebizond; Turkish submarine in th Black Sea convoyed by Turk torpedo boat.
Following the capture of Erzerum, the Russians, encouraged by their success there, have been making a
concentrated drive toward the important city of Trebizond, the possession of which would give the Russians
another strategic port on the Black Sea. The Turks are using Trebizond as a naval base for submarine warfare.
WASHINGTON, Feb. S.". Congress
settled down lo ait developments in
.the submarine controversy ith an ov
erwhelming n ajori'y apparently de
1er"i:ned to take no action that might
embarrass the Administration. A few
of the more anient advocates of leis
'lation to keep Americans off armed
: ships continued their activities and
j former Secretary Bryan's support was
j shown in the form of a telegram. Th
I Administration is not worried and re-
y
L VALUE!-:
LAW COSTLY
TO ROADS
President Of New Haven Declar-j
es Legislation Has Cost Rail-'
roads Of Country About Forty
Five Millions !
CHURCH AND ADS.
CHICAGO. Feb. 25. Church
men and advertising experts of
Chicago and neighboring cities
met here A few sayings follow:
"Advertising makes every
church a success. Every min
ister draws his salary as an ad
vertising man. A church bulle
tin bosrd must be kept large'
enough to give every pedestrian
a punch in the eye.
THE MAYOR IS
N
OPT!
LONDON, Feb. 25. The importance
to England of the fight raging before
Verdun was emphasized by Major Gen
eral Lloyd, commanding the London
district, in a speech:
"In the great war proceeding every
individual must give up seff absolute
ly and all must unite in one bond td
make the war result in victory. If , the District anticipate that the Spring
once the Allies lines are pierced the will witness the complete amalgams
way will be open to the French capi- tion of the formerly split ranks of the
tal and if that capitl is reached a newipartv. The forces are together and
ponent of James Allison in the final
flection. The. above statement is
made with the assurance that Allison
will have no opposition in the Demo
cratic primary and that McRae will
be the only candidate in the Republi
can ranks for the nomination.
Messrs Quick and Tostin are the
only Republicans mentioned for the
nomination of superintendent of
streets.
Though the Republicans have not
been publicly active for several weeks
the leaders of the party in the dis
trict have been quietly at work or
ganizing the scattered forces and the
ticket as announced in The Review
several mornings ago, and supplemen
ted thi sniorning is the result of a
careful selection of the available tim
ber at hand.
Time leaders of the Rupblicans in
MORE TIME REMANDED
WASHINGTON. Feb. 25. Represen
tatives of the Electric Boat Company
the lowest bidder for two 1500-ton sub-'
marines authorized by. Congress last
year, informed Secretary Daniels that
it would be impossible to turn out the
vessels in twenty-two months, as de
sired and instead it would take two
years and a half. Naval officials are
considering recommending to Con
gress a modification of the law to per
niit the award of contracts for a small
er type of vessel to be built more
quickly.
NEW YORK, Feb. 25. The annual
banquet of one trust company sec
tion of the American Banker's Associa
tion was attended by. represen dtive
financiers from al! parts of the coun
try. The principal speaker. Howard
Ellio'f. .iresidr.t of the N.-v Harm
Uai.rorid, spoakini of the ihjsiral
.vuation law sa!d:
"This law hns cast the railroads of
the count ry from from forty million
to forty-five million and the New Ha
H
WANTED 6Y ONE
FAIR CO-ED
'ports at the capital showed conclu
sively that both Senate and House will
stand behind the President in his re
fusal to permit abridgement of thq
riehts om citizens on the seas,
j The Cabinet discussed the matter
land one of the secretaries said th
! members stood behind the President
"to a man." There is no change in the
i diplomatic status of the situation. Th
'State Department is still awaiting a
' response from Germany. Members of
: Congress heard intimations that the
I Teutonic powers w ill postpone their
Mrs. Eaton, Complaining wit-rcw pjir" un,i' AH' or -Ma3r- Nn in
' i ness In Case, Avers That May JI 7
or Thompson Knew Nothing of evidence of concern to the Senate than
The Entire Affair : before but seemingly it stood firm be-
; CHVAGO. Feb. 25. Investigation hind the President. Stone saw no
before the Civil Service Commission cause for immediate excitement, nor
of Mrs. Page Waller Eaton's story that "V any one should get the "jimjams."
she was compelled to divide her sal- Senator Lodge, leading the Rpuhli-
lary with her superior officer, Mrs. cans, is stauncniy suppomns me
Louise Osborne Rowe was continued Presuleni. 1 h senate recess prevem
At one stage Mrs. Howe's attorney d action of the recalcitrants,
questioned Mrs. Eaton concerning her,
acquaintance with the late Dwight M. : LONDON PRAISES LETTER
Sabin. once United States Senator of; LONDON. Feb. 25. President Wil
innesota. j son's letter to Senator Stone caused
Mrs. Eaton's attorney protested, ho , favorable comment by London news-
isaid. that if the past be delved into he papers: "The President s words have
ring." says the Chronicle.
ven alone five hundred thnnoanil in IntPfPStinn RpnllPS Rpr.pivprl To ! would insist on a complete inquiry , the right
- . . . I 1 T 1 " . . '..IT.
six hundred thousand dollars. Hen
ry Morgenthpu eulogized President
Wilson as "calm amid excitement at
Washington."
Judge Lindny of Denver told of ex
periences with the Ford expedition
and described conditions in Serbia and
Poland as intolerable. Nearly five
ORE SLIP SINKS
LEWIS. Del.. Feb. 25. The British
steamer Trecarrell from Huelva forj hundred thousand babies died in Scr
Philadelphia with a cargo of ore. went bia nnd r,,anJ in J'a'"
ashore in a gale south of Deleware' Maior General Wood condemned
Capes yesterday and was dashed to j the bon'v system of the civil war.
nieces bv the roush seas. Tho rrew I sa"in?: "'t as an evil inheritance.
nnopu "Hnuu Mnrh rlnct A t0 include otners Desmes nis client. ine manes n piain io me wuuir umu
UUCIJ nUW mut.l WIUl ,i.i ,,, f,.-.w .hot fh rni.Pil States Is unshakable
. . , , ... a , .1 lir lllliunil I'll.'.. l niiu.rui . I. 'ii.v. .... ..... - .....
man nave dciuic iuu uuiu; comment.
Marry Him?"
BERLIN HAS NEWS
complexion will be put on the whole
face of the war, our lives and being.
German success on the French front
will not merely mean the loss of Paris
but will endanger London."
The report of German gains north
of Verdun strengthened the feeling of
confidence in the outcome of future
events. The new s provoked no noti- BERLIN. Feb. 25. The morning pap
ceable flurry in Berlin and no flags ers print a Havas dispatch from New
were shown. As to prisoners taken. rYork which says the Administration
the victory of the Germans is one on- at Washington is determined to break
ly fourth as great as that achieved by j relations w-ith von Bernstorff and ne
the Entente Allies in September whera , gotiate directly with Berlin. Nothing
working according to their ststemeLts.
for a common cause. That they will
make the Democrats of Bisbee" sit up
and take notice', is conceded by the
most optimistic leaders of the party.
three days gun fire preceded the attack.
is known of this here and it is con
sidered extremely probable, as intimat
ed in the dispatch of the Associated
Press some time ago that the submar
ine subtect would be transferred to
PURITY OFr"ICER ARRESTED
SAN DIEGO, Feb. 25. F. A. Thurs
ton, patrolman of the Purity Squad at. Berlin in accordance with reeommen-
San Bernardino, was arrested charged i dations submitted by the President
with deserting his wife, .coming here several weeks aeo. It is felt here that
to a carabet and registering at a hotel this may exnedif a satisfactory set
as F. W. Conncll and wife, according tlement of the whole submarine con
to the police. The girl was not held, 'troversy.
was saved.
REVENUE INCREASES.
CHICAGO. Feb. 25. The increase
in gross operating revenue of the
Santa Fe in the last seven months of
the fiscal year of 1915 amounted to
f6.700.000 and. over the similar period
of the preceding year, according to a
report issued here. The opraling ex
penses in the same period increased
$3,200,000.
4N WARNED OFF SEAS.
OMAHA. Feb. 25. P. A. Edquist.
the Swedish vice consul, received in
structions from his government today
to warn all Swedish subjects "to keep
off the seas" after February 29 when
the order of the Central Prowers of
Europe to sink armed merchant ships,
is effective. The vice consul indicated
his government had issued similar in
struction s to all representatives in
the United States.
in the resolve to reject the Impudent
Charles Fitzgerris, the mayor's sec-(demand of Germany. In fact, thfi
retary. said Mrs. Eaton declared: "I whole substance of his letter prove
have told in all this the truth. I have the President, far all his patience, has
believed all along in Mayor Thompson a clear objective which he is steadily
v and "4hat le knew nothing about this, pursuing, and w hen he needs to strike
further I go more and am convinced he can strike hard."
'the mayor knows nothing about it.
The mayor was doublecrossed." BRANDEIS DEFENDED.
and nothing has been more degrading
to the manhood of the country. If you
want to remain a free people you
have got to organize. President Low-
eTl of Harvprd. predicted the nexl'
war wojild be thirty or -forty years
hence and would be more destructive
than the present one and would prob
ably involve the whole world. .
STRIKE AVERTED.
CAR KILLS TWO.
Springfield, nis.. Feb. 2-.. two
were killed in the Black Diamond coin, a former member of Parliament
EL PASO. Feb. 25. The danger of
a strike of the Vera Cruz' water
works has been averted according to
messuges received by . the Mexican
consulate here. Information came in
the form of a telegram from the rep.
resentative of the de facto govern
ment at Galveston, who said it w-as
based on a cablegram from Mexico
City.
ASK EARLY DECISION.
WASHINGTON, Feb. 25. England
through its counsel has asked the
supreme court for an early determina
tion of the appeal of lunations Lin-
mine at Auburn when a string of cars
jumped the track, knocking down
many tons of coal.
DENOUNCE FRENCH SHIRKERS.
PARIS. Feb. 25. French shirking
military duty in the trenihcs were
denounced in the Chamber of Deputies
by speakers who demanded more
strict application of the law against
and confessed German spy, from the
action of the federal district court of
New. York which refused to release
him on habeas corpus. Lincoln is be
ing held for extradition to England.
MINNEAPOLIS, Feb. 25. Minn,
csota Daily, a university student
newspaper of "the Univeriity'- .cf
Minnesota, which asked the wo
men students of the institution:
"How much salary must a man
receive -efre they would consent
to marry him?" received replies. .'
raoqinq from $8C0 to $10,003.
Most of the girls were conser
vative. The average requirements
were a.bout $1600 anm.a'ly.. Many
HemanHcJ tat their future hus
bands be dancers.., .3ome said that
they must knpw the Jatest steps. I
One warted "dreamy dancer." :
Smoking was permitted and even
demanded ' by a large number.
.Drinking was prohibited. Advo
cates , of card playing suggested
the substitution of bridge for po-
cr. v.,c "7"-" -- f Sygtem is asked to take up preparatory ; PHILADELPHIA. Feb. 2.1. Charles
cne n,h weekly t0 P"y P0Ver- 'courses, anticipating warfare, let it be KIIis. of pissbnrg. won the three-eush-
scout and not the "tin soldier" pro- jon billiard championship world by
gram." --, ; defeating Alfredo de Oro. the title
I holder, 150 to 129.
V i 1 WASHINGTON, Feb. 23. -Louifl
. CONDEMNS PROPOSED LAWS : nrandei.s' part in the New York-New
DETROIT. Feb. 25. James West of.Ep,and Raiiroaii litigation in 1S92
New York, chief scout executive ot wasdefended before the Senate Ju
the Bay Scouts of America, speaking nrandps' fitness io be a supreme
at ' the final session said: "America justice by Justice Kelly, of tle New
will be more Pmssianized than Ger- y0rk Supreme Court, who employed
many ever, was if bills before Con-, ninl n,andeis' opponents charged he
I gress advocating me system or mm- na(! been employed to w reck the road,
jtary training becomes l?.w. If Ameri- -Rrandeis was not employed trt
ca actually is preparing for war she wrpck tI,e road." Kelly told commit
jhad rather face the issue of a million tee. " was already wrecked."
'approved scouts who Van handle them I ..
selves efficiently than a million men
of the old militia type. If the sell oil
WINS CHAMPIONSHIP.
AEROPLANE SUCCESSFUL.-.'
LONDON. Feb. 25. An official state
pent savs: "Our aeroplanes were sue
cessful in a bombing raid from the ae
rodrome near Lille, all returning safe
lv. The enm.v exploded a mine near
Friconrt with no casualties. Our ar
tillery was active against the enemy i
JANUARY EXPORT TRADE j
WASHINGTON. Feb. 25. The coun-! ITALIANS DRIVEN BACK
try's export trade declined in January ; BERLIN. Feb. 2.". An Austro-Hun-t
hough the total was far above th garian communication says: "In con
same month last year. Exports were "sequence of hard attacks on the Hal
valued at over $:i:;3.OO0.tl0O in January ians east and southeast of Durazzo.
near Vpres Canal and east of Boes- . ,
December. 1
js compared to over I352.000.00o in j the vwere driven to the isthmus west
inghe
ncrease over
1913. was SrtS.OOO.ftOO.
January, of the Dr.razzo lake. The Durazzo
'd.icks were under fire of the Austro-
; Hungarian batteries and embarkment
PARIS' OPINION tof men and war materials was hinler-
PARIS. Feb. 25. The "Temps" dis-;ed. Fleven Italian officers and more
TURKS SENT EAST.
LONDON. Feb. 25. Turkev is mak
Ing great effotrs to despatch troops cussing the situation concerning the than TOO soldiers were taken prisoners
tr. iho Unaainn fmnt in an en.ieavnr United States and Germany says: t
HAS TYPHUS FEVER.
EL PASO. Feb. 25. Morris Button
to recapture Erzerum. says the Buch- Neither Great Britain or ner Allies
arest correspondent of . the of the 'have any interest in seeing war be
Times. All ordinary ira,fflc on the tween Germany and the United States,
railwav from the Basphorus to An- .American sympathies are enough and
er. a United States Immigration ia-J gora is stopped and trains carrying these have been won. une aoes not
spector. was removed to a hospital , troops ami supplies there'are running observe in London or Paris' the least
them. They averred that the amtnuni ; suffering from an attack or typhus, incessantly. He says mere is little tennency i iniervcu i u- unmi
tion factories contain many evaders : according to Immigration Medicnl Of- likelihood of the success or the move- American crisis, either to bring a rup
ot military service. In er Tappun. ment. 'twrc of in favor of compromise."
STEAMER FACES PERIL
NEWPORT NEWS. Feb. 25. The
Hull Line steamer Dorothy, carrying
twenty-seven passengers of the Mer
chants Miners Liner Cretan, with
which she collided off Diamond Shoals
passed the Virginia Capes In the face
of a northeast storm. The Cretan,
w ith a gaping hole in her bow, arrived
