f L
I
WEATHER FORECAST:
Partly OvsrcMt Tcmlffet
(Fall eprt on'Faga Twe.)
r
T
NUMBim 8822
1
8-HOUR RIDER DENOUNCED AS MENACE
TO BUSINESS BY
OUTER VERDUN FORT
FALLS BEFORE DRIVEllV
OF GERMAN ARMIES
Dddampnt, foiir Miles' From, Stronghold of
; . rrcjoicn,. iaKen By uown rnnce as
Defenders Are Forced to Fall Back.
Russians Capture Persian Kermanshah.
LftNDQN, Feb. 26.' The strong French fortress of
Douamont, defending Verdun frorh the northeast and but
four miles from the city's outskirts, has fallen before the
German attack, according to an official statement tele
graphed here from Berlin today.
The, evacuation of the, fortress by the French is be
lieved, to jiavei been preceded by the collapse of the vhole
French front- from the ridge of- Cote du Poivre eastward
through Bezonvaux.
Another great victory for the Russian grand duke's
army is reported from Petrograd. The important Persian
city of Kermanshah has been captured after a three-days'
i. "S. ) Russian stateo-icfc vifw fhi; nc cprnnrlnrv nnlv tn tr
bv" jnireiprzierum. An attempt to join the British' at
iCWwufigf-Jymaraai believed the next step. .. . Ll.
, ,Thpugh4Ite' firs Berlin
siaiemennnat tne uerman troops capturea uouamont yes
terday, it is considered certain in' view of Douamont's posi
tion, that the whole French force defending Verdun from
the north and northeast has been driven back upon the
- fortress under the most terrible stroke delivered by the
crown prince since the Verdun fighting began.
The fall of Douamont marks the first breach in the
forts of Verdun and indicates that the whole of the great
French fortress is now seripusly threatened by the Ger
mans' mighty smash.
PARIS FAILS TO CONFIRM NEWS.
Tho Berlin report thus far lacks con
tVmatiou from Paris. The latent dis
patch from Paris, however, reported
terrific fighting In the snows along the
rldgo of Coto du Poivre, .out four and
one-half miles north of tne Kronen
fortress and about half a mile north
west of the fortress of Douamont.
Whole regiments of Germans were mad
ly assailing the French armored
trenches and redoubts on tho hills, V-W
foet above the wooded plain.
At the same tlmo the Germans were
making vicious onslaughts against tho
French line resting on Louvemont.
about one and one-half miles north of
Douamont, and against tho French posi
tions In the heights north of ticzon
vauz, northeast of Douamont.
Tho positions on Cote do Polvro (Pop
per Heights), constituting the key to
the Verdun defenses from the north,
were regarded as 'almost Impregnable.
It wan generally accepted here that If
the Germans succeeded In occupying
this position the fortress of Uouamont
would be Immediately subjected to nn
irresistible ffro that would make Its
evacutatlon Imperative,
Envelopment Is Threatened.
The heavy German attack ngalnst
Louvemont, directly north of Doua
mont, aimed at breaking the French
front and forcing the evacuation of the
Pepper heights by a threat of complete
envelopment.
It Is belloved probable that the Ger
mans made a breach In the French
front at Louvemont, rushed westward
against the Pepper heights, thus forc
ing tho evacuation of theso positions,
the surrender of Douamont nnd the col
lapse of the French lino to the eastward
at the same time.
The village of Douamont, directly In
front of the fortress, and the villages
of Louvemont and Bezonvaux, as well
as the Intervening woods of Vaucho,
are believed to have been captured by
the Teutons.
From Douamont, the crown prlnco
can now bring his heavy guns to boar
upon tho forts of Do Vaur and De
Tavannes, Immediately to the south,
and upon Fort de Belleville, just outside
Verdun and southwest of Douamont. At
the samo time she can sweep the entire
northern plain about the city with a
Are which no Infantry force can with
stand. Capture of the position. It Is consid
ered almost certain here, was accompa
nied by a frightful loss on both sides.
No accurate estimates of the losses on
what may prove to bo the war's blood
iest battlefield are obtainable at this
time, but It is accepted that casualties
Every Day The Right Way To Au
gusta, Aiken, Columbia. Augusta (Special
Lv. Washington T p. m. Southern Rwy.
JMvl
I '
bulletiri,ndbhtained only the
on both sides now total more than 100,
000. A French report that the Germans
have lost 150,000 Is considered entirely
too high, though It appears probable
that nearly two German army corps
have been completely wiped out tn
massed attacks against some of the
strongest field positions the world has
over known.
There Is no longer any doubt that the
Germans aro hurling all their resources
Into tho Verdun attack, hoping to blast
a road to Paris and end the war.
The enormous losses already suffered
by tho Teutons Is considered proof That
the Kaiser has embarked on a venture
planned to brine Franco to her knees.
Tho French line has now been thrown
back for nearly four miles upon an
clght-mllo front, the greatest revcrso
suffered by cither side since the Sep
tember offenstvo of tho allies, when the
French swept forward on a fifteen-mile
(Continued on Second Page.)
S. T. Wallis Picked
For West Point Test
Commissioners Announce Him
First in Recent Competitive
Examination.
Announcement was made by the Com
missioners today of the designation of
Severn Teackle Wallis, son of Mr. and
Mrs. Samuel Wallis, of 1752 Corcoran
street, for appointment to the United
States Military Academy,
Tho first Jind second alternates aro
John Harrison Stokrs. Jr., of tho Cali
fornia apartment, Eighteenth street and
Columbia road, and Roderick Hurt Dun
lop, 1728 Q street northwest.
Young Wallis was first In the com
petitive examination recently held by
the Board of Education, He Is nine
teen years old and Is a student at tho
Virginia Military Institute. His earlier
education was received In the graded
Bchools and tho Western High School.
Tho examination for admission 'to tho
Academy will bo hold at the Washing
ton Barracks March 21. If found to pos
sess the requisite qualifications, Wallis
will bo admitted to the Academy June
14, 1916.
The District vacancy at the Academy
results from the graduation In June of
Cadet Aaron Bradshaw.
Two British Steamers
Sunk; Nine Lives Lost
LONDON, FeTT JT-The British
steamers Density and Tummel have
been sunk, with a probable loss of
Bint llvss, according to dispatches
-t i tBt! ii , .. r ""
- - - - ...... j .. . . IJL... . . '- - ....---. . .
WASHiy.GJ?Oy4 SAfrPfrPAY HTByi,
MR TO WflEU.SJ.PJMl
SUNDAY WITH EXTEIt
OUTBURST OF SONG
Two 'Thousand Trained .Voices
Will Greet Evangelist at Bal
- timore This Afternoon.
GREAT ESCORT TO HOME
Hundreds of Automobiles Will
Follow Him From Station.
Campaign Opens Tomorrow.
DALTIMOrtE. Md., Feb. 26.-Bllly
Sunday will step off the train at Union
Station In Baltimore this nfternoon to
the tuno of, "Onward, Christian Bol
ters.," and "Brighten the Cornor Where
Tou Are," ,
Two thousand members of the great
choir trained to sing at the Taber
nacle meetings, will gather at Union
Station to sing a welcomo to the evun
gcllst as he alights from the train.
First to grasp his hnnd will 1ms T.
Davis Hill, of the reception committee,
and Daniel Baker, the Baltimore execu
tive committee chairman.
Outside will be waiting hundreds of
automobiles In which will be'thef por
sonal'wprkers for the campaign, mem
bers of ihe local committees, and promi
nent business men. These will trail
ajongjjehlnd Sunday's car to his hom
and headquartors lit Mt. Vernon pace.
Will Review Parade.
From th6 steps of this home. In the
most fashlvnablo section of Baltimore,
Billy Sunday, "Ma" Sunday, and mem
bers of tho Sunday party will review
the escort parade.
Ooorgo Mamuls Sunday, son of tho
evangelist, and his business manager,
reached Baltimore at noon today. Ho
came from Philadelphia, his present
home. Ho had leen there since tne
birth of a son two weeks ago.
Miss draco Haxe. director of Bible
study, and Miss Alice .Mlrlifm Oaninn,
director of boys' nnd girls' work, ai
rendy aro here. They spent the morn.
Ing conferring with local committee
members und outlining plans for tnclr
work.
John Wallace Welsh, advance repre
sentative, also Is here, nnd during tho
night he went over with various mem
bers or the committee the plans ror
the tabernacle meetings. This nrtct
noon CSTfrge Sunday will assemtto the
hundreds of ushers for the tabernnclft
meetings and outline to them their
duties.
Governor To Greet Evangelist.
Albert Peterson, keeper of the taber
nacle, was another arrival this mvrn
lng. Governor Harrington, Mayor Preston,
members of tho legislature, and mem
bers of the city council, will bo among
thoso to welcomo Sunday at his first
tabernacle meeting tomorrow morning.
Governor Harrington will deliver nn
address of welcome; Homer HoUeheav
cr will conduct n song servlco; then
Sunday will launch upon his first ser
mon, and tho six weeks' campaign in
Baltimore will bo under way.
Pastors to Ask Sunday
To Hold Service Here
An effort to bring Billy Sunday to
Washington for another Convention
Hall meeting will be made by Wash
ington clergymen during his stay In
Baltimore.
So far this Idea has been discussed
only informally, but as soon as tho
Baltimore campaign Is well under
way, elthor tho executive committee
of the Pastors' Federation, or tho spe
cial Sunday evangelistic committoe,
made up of five pastors and five lay
men, will consider the matter.
The Itcv. Dr. Clnrence A. Vincent, of
Mt. Pleasant Congregational Church,
Is president of tho Pastors' Federa
tion nnd also chairman of tho Sunday
evangelistic committoe.
Dr. Vincent Bald today that plans
would be discussed formally as soon
as Mr. Sunday Is settled In Baltimore
and his campaign la woll under way
IIIUI V.
The Mystery of Marian Lambert
Chicago lias another of those strange stories at which the world stops for a
moment in an attempt to solve its intricacies. What the Avis Linnell case was to
Boston, the Grace Brown case to western New York, and the Aumuller case to
Gotham, the mystery of Marian Lamber. and Will Orpet is to the great West. It
is an intricate problem and its complexities are told in a complete story
In Tomorrow's Sunday Times
CAPITAL MERCHANTS
IT,
i
OF SHIP HHi
Information Clarifies Apparent.
Paradox in Stand Taken by j
President, .
FLOOD IS VERY OPTIMISTIC
Following Conference With Lan-
clnn Mniien 1 parfor npp.tarpc
w,..a, ..- r ,
Situation Is Clearing.
The United States will discuss with
Germany the extent to which merchant
ships may arm for defense.
It will not discuss with Germany the
right of such vessels to defensive ar
mament. It will negotiate with Germany as to
tho rules applicable to defensive armi.
ment; not as to-the principle.
This Information, obtained today from
highest official sources In the State De
partment, serves to clarify the apparent
paradox In the position taken by thu
President In his letter to Sehator Stone
that he would not discuss with Germany
a question of principle Involving thu
fundamental right of Americans to
travel on vessels armed for defense.
and yet felt confident that a way out;
of tho Impasse would do louna.
SitButtoB Lc Serious.
From the standpoint of tho cflticnl
.u.niinn which has existed In Congress
during tho frit toy days, tho &"??"
Hon imparted this WrMmr "
NOT
O
SttSSSm Letter to Gompers He De-
.... nn thu TiaaHaze nf a resolution
warning Anmrlcans, or prohibiting them
r,r.m fruvoiiiiiir cn armed liners.
Secretary of Stato Lansing lot It bo
known this lnornlnc that the situation
was "less sorious." Tho samo view
was expressed by Chairman l'lood of
tho Housu Foreign Affairs following a
conferenco which ho had at tho State
Department with Secretary Lansing.
In the samo way the opinion is ex
pressed in German circles that so long
as tho United States does not shut off
all discussion of tho Issue, hope In
creases for an amicable adjustment of
tho whole dispute.
Tho German reply to tho Inquiries of
tho United States as to the extent to
which tho German submarine declara
tion nullifies past assurances given by
Germany, Is expected somo tlmo today.
It will definitely Invito discussion, and
for that reason, It Is belloved, will offer
to postpone tho effective date of tho new
declaration, which otherwise would be
come opcratlvo next Wednesday. .
It will ask the United States to define
the character and use of defensive ar
mament on merchant ships; and the
United States will respond. Thus tho
negotiations will be broadened.
To Establish Modus Vivendi.
Out of these negotiations, many offi
cials of tho Government confidently ex
pect, there may follow exchanges be
tween the United States and the en
tento allies, the possible effect of which
will bo a more or less complete victory
for the efforts of President Wilson to
establish a modus vivendl safeguard
ing tho lives, of Americans and other
neutrals on tho high seas.
Such a modus vivendl, however, will
not bo on the basis of an agreement to
disarm merchant ships. Tho efforts of
tho Administration in that direction are
practically dead. They wero embodied
in a memorandum sent to the allies to
Mr. Lansing on January 18. Although
onlv one of tho cntcnto powers has re-
filled formally. Great Britain, which Is
he moving spirit In any arrangement
by the entente alliance, nan inrormaiiy
rejected tho disarmament proposition.
Tho ono formal reply reached the
State Department today. It came, it
Is undcrsiooq, rrom tne French, govern
ment, although state Department otri
clnls refused to say. Franco, It IB
understood, took tho position that the
proposals or Mr. Lansing did not di
rectly Interest her for the reason that
the French government has never
atmed Its merchant ships In practice.
There was no Indication, .however. It Is
said, that France will question tho right
claimed by Great Britain under Inter
national law.
fcEBBTTABY 20, 1916.
Chairman at Meeting of
Clerks' Champions
sssssssssHHlsisllrs1ritsksV 'jfl
ssssssssssssssssHsWArfsMHlfl.sssS
sssHsm!4 sift.'' kH
SKfmmmiU ' ssl
I'hoto liy Kdmons.on.
M. A. LEESE,
Vice president, Retail Merchants'
Association.
dares He Has Views of Fav
oring 8-Hour Day.
Congrcstiman Borland made public
this afternoon a letter ho sent today
to Samuel Gompers, president of tho
American Federation of Labor. In an
swer to Mr. Gompers' objection to tho
Borland rider for nn eight-hour day for
Government clerks In Washington.
An extract tromMr. Borland's lettcc
reads:
"Arguments and opinions could bo
quoted ut length by mo from labor
leaders nnd economists to tho effect
that eight hours Is the proper und nor
may schedula of labor, and I have no
doubt I could auoto opinions of your
own In many Instances to tho same
effect.
"There Is no Intention, therefore, to
Increase tho hours of labor of Govern
ment employes beyond the recognized
and proper standard or to deteriorate In
any way their health or social position.
"Tho chango proposed by tho present
legislation docs not rlso to tho dignity
of a principle, except, so far as It abol
ishes tho accidental privilege of dis
crimination. "It Is In face. In lino with the ten
past. The most active opposition
of tho city of Washington. These In
terests with the real estate nnd bank
ing Interests allied therewith and tho
nowspapcrs, who nubalst upon their ad
vertising patronage, have a local Ini
fort at tho seat of government which
s widespread, powerful nnd Inslduous.
there same mercnntllo interests nnd
department storo proprietors wero pro
testing vigorously to Congress ngalnst
tho enactment of an eight-hour day for
uoiklng women In private employ In the
District. Every newspaper article
which has appeared upon tliot pending
leglvlatlon has set forth tho Interests
of the mercantile class."
PLANNING FOR POLO
TOURNAMENT HERE
Plans for a polo tournament In Wash
ington April 15 to 30 were announced
today by tho Washington branch of the
Army Polo Association. Teams rrom
Philadelphia, Now York, PlttshunTn,
Aiken, and Camden have signified their
Intention of entering tho tournament.
Tho executive commltteo or the an
soclalm announced today that In order
to defray the expenses tor the tourna
ment nnnual subscriptions of $5 or more
will bo welcomed from all Interested
In the sport, whether as playing or
non-plnying members. Theso subscrip
tions are to bo sent to Col. W. W.
Harts.
BORLAND ANSWERS
wr. o f m
RETAIL ASSOCIATION
ATTACKS BORLANKS
PLAN IN RESOLUTION
Members Declare Entire City, .As Well As
Government Clerks, Would Be Affected
, By Change-Complete Reorganization
Would Be Needed, They Say. .
Resolutions strongly disapproving the enactment or
the Borland eigh-hour. amendment were adopted at a
meeting of the board of governers of the Retail Merchants'
Association at a meeting held this afternoon. M. A.
eese, vice president of the association, presided.
The meeting was attended by practically all the mem
bers of the board, which is made up of merchants repre
senting all lines of commercial life in Washington.
The members spoke in most emphatic terms against
the Borland amendment and agreed that its enactment
would work hardships, not only on the "underpaid Gov
ernment clerks," but upon the merchants and business in
terests of the city.
OPPOSITE TENDENCY HERE.
- '-4f -was Ported out by the speakers that the movement
to-increase the hours of labor of Government employes
came at a time when all the tendencies of business and
business men in Washington were in the opposite direc
tionthat of reducing hours of employment in all branches .
of commercial life.
The destructive influences on business which would
be brought about by -the passage of the Borland rider were
dwelt upon by speakers who drove home their arguments
with force and conviction.-
The sentiment of the meeting was that the Govern
ment employes in Washington are working a sufficient
number of hours for the pay they receive and that their
work is of such a nature as to make it inexpedient from
an economic and hygienic standpoint to increase the hours.
CAPITAL BUSINESS READJUSTED.
The speakers declared they had been compelled to
readjust their businesses because of the passage of the
eight-hour law for girls and women employed in the Dis
trict and that the enactment of the Borland amendment
would completely upset all the arrangements made to
conform to that law.
None of the speakers could satisfy himself that the
Government employes would have any time to patronize
the business houses of Washington if the men and women
were compelled to remain in the departments an additional
hour in the afternoon.
Some of the members expressed the belief that the
business world of Washington would be turned into
"topsy turvy land," and that the stores would have to keep
open until Jatefat( night so as to give the Government em
ployes a chanc&jto do their buying, and incidentally to en
able the establishment to do enough business to keep open.
Saturday Half Holiday
To Offset 8-Hour Day
A compromlso amendment providing
that If Government -clerks aro to work
eight hours a day they shall bo al
lowed a Saturday half-holiday througn
out the year will bo offered when the
Borland rider to tho legislative, Execu
tive, and Judicial appropriation bill
comes to a vote In tho House.
This amendment will bo sponsored by
Congressman Stafford of Wisconsin, n
llepubllcan member of the Appropria
tions Committee, which reported tne
bill.
Mr. Stafford will oto for the Uor
land .rider,, but will seek to modify It
sn as to give the Government clerks
something; In return lor an Increased
working day.
las epyeBsati R4 lk MvsuVf M
HOME
EDITION
PBICE ONE CENT.
'no .Borland rider were allowed s
hrenthlng spell m the House today
when tho legislative appropriation bin
was laid asldo to resume consideration
or tho I'ostorrico budget. 'u-''"i
The leglslatlveblU was called unexpect
edlv yesterday afternoon because the
llouso hod to nit work on tho nostofflca
budget owing to the failure of tha Rules
Committee to bring In a Hpoclal r'ulo
protecting oeitaln legislative provision
of tho postdlTIco bill.
When tho House convened todny.
Sneaker Clark tccognlxcd Congressman
Harrison, of tho Itulos Committee, who
made the belated report on the ule. and
this sidetracked the legislative bill In
favor of the nostolTlce bill.
It Is possible the postofflco appropria
tion measure will pass the Hou laU
tCwitlui4 rUft ,)
V
