THE DONALDSONVILLE QIIEF.
A Wide-Awake Home Newspaper-Published Every Saturday-Subscription Price, $2 a Year.
VOLUME XLV. DONALDSONVILLE, LA., SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 26, 1916. NUMBER 30.
NEWS OF THE PHOTOPLAYS
Coming Attractions at the Local Movie Houses
"Body and Soul," an astounding
drama of dual personality with
Florence Rockwell in the leading role,
will be the offering at the Gem The
atre tomorrow. here is the story in
brief:
Claire Martin, niece of the wealthy
Mrs. Taylor, suffers from loss oz moem
ory. She wanders through the wo:ds
seeking shelter and food, and final;
reaches a cabin tempora rily occupied
by a New York sportsmainn, who is
fishing and hunting in the neighbor
hood. For awec Claire accepts
shelter from this sportsman, whose
love grows with each day's stay.
Finally astrang r~id(er passing the
cabin asks for a dirink, and Claire in
her innocence show iier admiration
for him, making him finaliy accept
the tempting invitation of her eyes to
kiss her. At this moment Houghton,
the sportsman, return; ind bursts in
to the cabin. He drives out the
stranger and then in a passionate out
burst takes a knife from the table and
brands the woman on tie breast, to
remind her that she is for him alone
--body and soul.
Houghton returns to New York.
While walking Fifth Avenue he
sees in a photographer's show
case a picture which closely re
sembles the girl he lived with
in the woods. He learns who
she is and decides to find out if she
is the same girl. Upon going to the
grounds of Mrs. Taylor's home and
meeting Claire. he declares she is the
woman who was with him at the cabin,
and, pushing back the dress from her
shoulders, he points to the brand.
She begs him to tell her what he
knows about the scar, and he, think
ing she is bluffing, says if she will
come to his houseboat he will tell her.
There Houghton proves that she
was the woman who was his mistress
for a week, and when he demands
that she love him now as she did then
and attempts to reclaim her, she picks
up a knife from the table and kills
him. Howard Kent, who has been to
the Yacht Club to attend a committee
meeting, witnesses the murder when
returning to his launch. He rushes
to Houghton's boat and carries the
fainting Claire to her home and se
cretly gets her to her room. A
doctor who is called declares that the
girl is guiltless of the crime, having
gone back to her old personality, and
he and Kent decide to make the case
appear as one of suicide.
Upon returning to Houghton's boat
the following morning Kent finds
there Claire's scarf and some pictures
of her. Kent is charged with the
murder by a man who heard the
quarrel, but the latter is made to be
lieve that Claire is innocent by Kent
and the doctor, who point out to him'
the terrible weakness of circumstan
tial evidence.
The doctor tells Kent that Claire
needs care and attention and must be
protected, and Kent in his great love
takes her to his heart.
Tomorrow's attraction at the Grand
will be "Pennington's Choice," a
powerful, intensely human five-part
photodrama of the Canadian north
west, featuring the distinguished fa
vorites of the screen, Francis X. Bush
man and Beverly Bayne.
-Robert Pennington, a wealthy
young New Yorker, falls in love with
Eugenia Blondeau, a girl from the
woods of Canada, who is a guest of
her aunt, Mrs. Allison, in New York.
Eugenia loves him, but will not marry
him until he has proven himself a
"man" in the eyes of her father, Jules
Blondeau. Pennington agrees to go
to the fastnesses of the Canadian
woods for the test. Eugenia gives
him a letter to her father and tells
him about her sister, Marie, who is
her twin, and looks exactly like her.
Unknown to Robert she hurries home,
arriving there ahead of him.
Arrived at the Blondeau cabin
Robert undergoes a physical examina
tion at the hands of Blondeau, who
tells him he is "soft," but that he will
Beverly Bayne in " Pennington's
Choice," at the Grand Tomorrow.
give him one month of primitive life
to better his physical condition.
Robert goes to live with Pierre, a
"Marie:" the supposedl twin sister
uses every artifice possible to win
Robert's affections, H~e becomes very
fond of her, but remains true to
Eugenia. Louis and Roland Blon
dean, her brothers, who do not dis
close their identity to Robert, make
I& ilmnost unbearable for him in the
wrp~ds. They quarrel with him and
WJ1BODYAeoS0UL"J
AT THE GEM THEATRE, TOMORROW, SUNDAY, FEBRUARY 27.
finally trounce him when he tries to
defend himself. Another time they
besiege him in his cabin for five days.
He eluides them, plunges into the
woods, and is surprised to encounter
his friend, J. J. Jeffries, the famous
pugilist, who is on a hunting trip.
Robert explains his predicament and
Jeffries gives him boxing lessons. At
the Blondeau home it is thought that
Pennington had fled in terror, and
Eugenia is broken-hearted.
When Pennington starts back over
the trail he encounters Jean and a
band of conspirators, who are plotting
to get Blondeau's land. Jean has in
tercepted a letter addressed to Blon
deau in which it is stated that the old
French grant of land will soon expire
unless a new claim is filed, and Blon
deau will lose everything. Penning
ton demands the letter of Jean. Jean
refuses to give it up and Pennington
knocks him downi and takes it from
him. Reading the letter Pennington
learns that 416,00 must ýbe deposit
ed in Montreal by midnight to save
the claim. He saddles a horse and
races to Montreal, where he arranges
by telegraph to have the money sent
from New York.
When Pennington returns to the
woods he is met by Louis and Roland
and accused of being a coward for
running away. In a fight he beats
both of them. They apologize for
ever doubting him. The elder Blon
deau is still doubtful of the young
man's courage, when officers ride up
and inform Blondeau that he has lost
his land. Pennington then explains
why he went away, and he is warmly
received by all members of the Blon
deau family, especially Eugenia, who
confesses her artifice, after Penning
ton tells the imaginary "Marie" that
he is loyal to her sister.
"Peer Gynt," which will receive its
first screen presentation locally at the
Grand Theatre on Monday, Feb. 28,
presents an all-star supporting cast
fully worthy the international repu
tation of the star, Cyril Maude, who
made such an American success as
"Grumpy" last season.
Myrtle Stedman with her dignified
beauty and charm is an ideal "Sol
veig," while Herbert Standing as "St.
Peter," Charles Ruggles as the "But
ton Moulder," William Desmond as
the "Parson" with the cloven hoof,
and Juan de la Cruz, former leading
baritone at the Royal Opera of Co
penhagen, who is one of the latest
prizes to be attracted to the screen,
are a quartette of fine actors it would
be impossible to duplicate. In a no
table array of beautiful women, one
stands out prominently, beautiful
Winifred Bryson. This famous belle
of the Burbank Theatre stock com
pany of Los Angeles was specially
loaned for "Peer Gynt."
Frequent discussion of the correct
pronunciation of -"Ase," the name of
'Peer Gynt's" mother in Henrik Ib
sen's celebrated drama of the droll
Norwegian wanderer, brings out the
fact that the small circle above the
capital A in Norwegian spelling makes
the pronunciation, "Osi."
"Ase's Death" will be remembered
as one of the four :numbers in Ed
yard Grieg's immortal "Peer Gynt
Suite," and the same imaginativeness
the composer worked with the Ibsen
material will be found to have beefs
achieved by the screen producer,
granted, as he was at the very, outset,
certain peculiar scenic advantages
which make for an illusion impossible
in any other way. The successive love
affairs of this Gudbrandsdale boy as
he wanders to all: parts of the world
are so realistically local to every clime
in which they occur that one fairly
marvels at the atmosphere that has
been caught in each episode.
Special music will be rendered dur
ing the picture by P. V. Blanchard.
A Severe Cold Quickly Cured.
"On December first I had a very
severe cold or attack of the grip as it
may be, and was nearly down sick in
bed," writes O. J. Metcalf, Weather
by, Mo. "I bought -two bottles of
Chamberlain's Cough Remedy and it
was only a few days until I was com
pletely restored to health. I. firmly
believe that Cjjamberlain's. Cough
Remedy is one of the very best medi-L
cines and will kno'w what to do when
I have another -cold." Obtainable
everywhere.-(Adv.)
NOTABLE SUCCESS COMING.
"The Broken Rosary" Booked For
Presentation Here March 1.
"The Broken Rosary," an enthrall
ing comedy-drama of love and sacri
fice, will be seen at the Grand Theatre
next Wednesday night, March 1.
The play has to do with the attempt
of a Catholic priest, Father O'Day, to
frustrate a deep-laid plot to virtually
sell a young girl to a millionaire, a
divorced man, against her will. The
conspiracy is hatched between the
girl's mother and the millionaire, the
latter holding, the trump card by rea
son of his possession of worthless
checks issued by the mother. The
priest tries in every way to prevent
the unholy wedding, and when in des
pair at his inability to stop it, invokes
the aid of the Almighty. His prayer
is answered in a wonderful manner,
the scene in which this is, shown being
a moststartling And realistic one.
The Shreveport Journal of Feb. 14
had the following to say regarding
this successful production:
"Baseball, love and marriage, all
mixed in with a frosting of comedy;
left nothing to be desired in the
make-up of `The Broken Rosary.' The
play is original in construction with
a tendency to melodrama of a high
Vern Douglas and Carolene Floumoy
in scene from "The Broken Rosary."
class. The old fashioned villian is
done away with, but appears in this
play as a millionaire ready to barter
for the pretty daughter of the Catho
lic mother, who through her greed for
money forgets the teachings of. her
church and forces the daughter into
a repugnant alliance. The marriage
is broken off suddenly by intervention
from heaven in the shape of a stroke
of lightning which breaks the rosary
and gives the play its title.
"Plenty of wholesome comedy
throughout the entire play kept the
audience in an uproar, and . 'Lanty
Bellaire,' the young Irish baseball
pitcher, and 'Father O'Day,' the jovial
priest, loyally assisted in this. They
kept the villian in hot water and
turned up at most4unexpected times.
Leon Gilson, as the priest, and Vern
Douglas as 'Lanty' were especially
good, and the players were all highly
satisfactory. Some pretty gowns are
worn and the climaxes are well work
ed up. 'The Broken Rosary' teaches
a moral lesson which deals with the
divorce evil, and last night's aitWnce
left the Grand speaking words of
praise for the company and players."
Something Good.
Those who hate nasty medicines
should try Chamberlain's Tablets for
constipation. They are pleasant to
take and their effect is so agreeable
and so natural that you will not real
ize that it has ever been produced
by a medicine. Obtainable every
where.-(Adv.)
Over 56,000 tons of refined sugar
were exported from the United States
in January of this year, compared
with 14,500 tons in 1915. It is re
ported that another 112,000 tons have
be4ds sold by the refiners for Feb
ruary-April shipment.
Today at the Gem, "Infatuation."
VOTES FOR WOMEN.
Southern States Woman Suffrage
Conference.
417 Camp Street, New Orleans.
Housekeeping as a Business.
That's a new one. A business
basis for homekeepers strikes one as
peculiar. Of course mother made the
home we recall in our youth. While
we didn't think of-it then, she must l
have had a strange experience. Her
father thought a lot of his daughter.
Sold a cow or two so as to pay for
music lessons, saen her to a cele
brated school for a term. And then,
after he had vorked fcr her for
twenty years and spent quite a tidy
sum of money in her upbringing, he
"gave her away" in the village church
to a neighbor's son, who was a car
riage builder before his marriage and
kept on building carriages after
wards. Mother's experience was dif
ferent. Marriage put a stop to all she
had ever been taught. Father never
learned more than carriage building.
Mother became nurse, cook, seam
stress, baker, teacher, laundress and
housekeeper. Seven new occupations
in which she became skilled; seven
times more new knowledge acquired
than father needed in his part of the
business of homemaking, and yet
mother's opinion was not permitted in
government. Father voted some
times, sometimes he failed to exer
cise his citizen's privilege, but mother
with all her splendid and valuable
information was deprived of the right
of the ballot The business of car
riage building was not more important
to the state than the business of home
making. Just why a carriage build
er should be privileged to vote and a
seven-skilled homemaker be disfran
chised was never` quite clearly ex
plained, and to this day no one has
advanced a satisfactory reason. It's
your turn to answer. No fool pre
judice, but good clean logic.
Suippose That.
Suppose that European women
should decide to follow the imperious
advice of their men and retreat to
the sacred precincts of the home.
Suppose that they should denand sup
port and protection as men insist is
their proper function to bestow.
What would happen to the British
soldier if his women did not leave the
home and till the fields to provide his
food; if his women did not labor fe
verishly in factories to supply his
clothes; if women ini the munitions
shops failed to make the ammunition
which defends the 'nation? Home is
a desirable haven for men and for
women, but there e times when both
must emerge te i -estfnl security
and shire the burdens and dangers
incidental to 'human welfare. This
means equal powier and opportunity
for the men and women affected. Wo
men in turope are learning this les
son.
A Congressional Bill.
The' United States elections bill,
now before congress, would confer
upon women the right to vote for
congressmen and United States sen
ators. The bill is endorsed by the
National American Woman Suffrage
Association and the Southern Woman
Suffrage Conference.
FREE SUGAR REPEAL UP.
Bill Introduced in Congress Provides
For Revocation of Clause.
A bill was introduced in congress
Feb. 14 by Representative Claude Kit
chin, of North Carolina, Democratic
leader of the house, providing for a
repeal of the free sugar proviso of
the Underwood tariff law. According
to Washington reports this wps pre
ceded on Feb. 11 by a meeting of the
Democratic members of the ways and
means committee, at which these
members decided to give unanimous
support to the bill and to expedite its
passage.
The text of the bill, which provides
foir an absolute repeal of the free su
gar provision without any limit or
reservation, is as follows:
"Be it enacted 'by the senate and
house of rkepresentatives of the United
States of America in congress assem
bled, that the proviso of paragraph
one hundred and seventy-seven of the
act entitled, 'An act to reduce tariff
duties and to provide revenue for the
government, anrd for other purposes,'
approved October , third, .nineteen
hundred and thirteen (Statutes at
Large, .volume thirty-eight, pages one
hundred and, fourteen to two hun
dred ann two, inclusive), which pro
viso reads as follows.: 'Provided fur
ther, that on and after the first day
of May, nineteen hundred aiid six
teen, the articles hereinhefore enu
merated in this paragraph shall be
admitted free of duty,' be, and the
same is hereby, repealed.
"Sec. 2. That the proviso of para
graph one hundred and seventy
eight of the aforesaid act, which pro
viso reads as follows: 'Provided, that
on a~nd after the first day of May,
nineteen hundred and sixteen, the
articles hereinbefore enumerated in
this paragraph shall be admitted free
of duty,' be, and the samne is hereby
repealed."
Bryan David, aged 24 years, mem
ber of a prominent Rapides family
who recently returned to that parith
after residing several years in Texas,
became insane at Pineville, Jan. 29,
secured a revolver, and after shooting
at his three-year-old nephew, Staf
ford Lawrence, entered the residence
of Daniel Mann, a Jewish merchant,
where the maniac shot and perhaps
mortally wounded nine-year-old Re
gina Mann and with the two last car
tridges in his weapon killed the child's
mother, Mrs. Bertha Rosenthal Mann,
who was ill in bed. Returning to the
rottesof the residence the un
fortunate murderer swallowed the
contents of a vial of carbolic acid and
Idied before he could be taken to the
Alexandria Sanitarium.
REVISION OF SCHOOL LAWS.
Important Changes in Educational
Legislation Proposed.
The Chief has received from State
Superintendent T. H. Harris the draft
of a bill which will be introduced at
the I-chcoming session of the general
assembly, proposing a number of
changes in some of the school laws of
Louisiana. "The revision is neces
sary," writes Supt. Harris, "to clear
up certain sections of the law the
meaning of which is not clear, to elim
inate contradictions that now exist,
and to provide for needed additions
to meet the conditions of a rapidly
developing school system. The pro
posed revision touches no questions
that would require constitutional
changes. Such questions can best be
iettled in a constitutional convention
when one shall be held."
The following outline indicates the
more important changes and addi
tions provided for in the proposed
educational bill:
1. A state board of education of
five members, appointed at large by
the governor, with overlapping terms
of five years, and the state superin
tendent of education. The purpose of
the change is to provide for perma
nency in the board and to divorce it
from the political administration of
the state. The present state board of
education is a most excellent one, but
is soon as its members are becoming
iccustomed to their duties a new ad
ministration takes charge and- a new
board will probably be appointed.
This is not a healthy state of affairs,
and the organization of the board
should be such that it will be pre
vented.
2. The limitation upon the number
of text-books that can be changed at
in adoption is removed. There are
two reasons for this: (a) the board l
should be in position at all times to
approve the best books for the chil
dren even should it be found neces
sary to adopt a new list, and (b)
publishers will offer their lowest
prices when there is competition on
all books submitted. f
3. One school board member is
provided for each police jury ward, e
instead of a member for each police
juror. This is to avoid large, un
wieldy boards, such as that of St. h
Landry.
4. Parish school boards are au
thorized to elect executive commit
tees of threecpnd to pay them for at
tending committee meetings, provid- T
ed the committees meet not oftener
than once a month. An executive f
committee is essential to approve
bills, the appointment of teachers,
and to attend to numerous other ale
tails requiring attention between
hoard meetings.
5. A clear statprn zthath supeg
intendents otherwise qualified shalt
not be required to be voters or resi
dents of the parish.
6. The importance of practical in
dustrial and commercial courses is
emphasized, and state and parish
school officials are urged to foster
such courses.
7. Parish school boards are re
quired to use the general state and
parish school funds to provide equal
sessions for all schools. The object
of this section is to protect the coun
try schools, especially those in sparse
ly settled communities.
8. Abolition of the fifty cents in
cidental fee. The incidental fee gives
trouble every session from two stand
points: (a) many patrons refuse to
pay the fee, and the dissensions re
sulting therefrom rebound upon the
innocent heads of the teachers; (b)
many communities use the fifty cents
fee as authority to charge tuition
fees, some as high as five dollars a
session. The purpose of the fee is
to purchase fuel, floor oil, and other
supplies. The school boards should
furnish these things just as they fur
nish houses and teachers.
9. The parish school board is
given authority to appoint local
boards of from one to three members,
and to prescribe their duties. Local
boards should be in sympathy with
the parish boards and should perform
such, acts as the parish boards may
prescribe. The surest way to, guar
antee such amicable relations is to
leave the matter entirely in the hands
of the parish board, the supreme
school authority of the parish.
10. A minimum salary of $1200
a year and expenses is prescribed for
a parish superintendent. A com
aetent man cannot afford to work for
less, and none but competent men
should be employed.
11. Parish school boards are given
authority to employ such assistant
superintendents, supervisors and
bookkeepers as may be needed.
12. The parish school officials are
given authority to organize and op
irate such teachers' institutes as they
lesire. The parishes now have com
petent superintendents who are fully
able to handle the institute question.
The old inspirational plan served a
good purpose, but we have outgrown
it.
13. Teachers cannot be dismissed
except for cause. The justice of this
provision is patent.
14. Teachers may be employed for
a term of years. This is to encour
i e long tenure of service in the same
~ootions.
15. Graduates of standard col
leges and normal schools are exempt
ed from the examinations required of
teachers. A standard college is de
fined as a college having four-year
courses in advance of Louisiana
high schools; and normal schools must
have at least two-year courses in ad
vance of Louisiana high schools and
must operate practice schools. All
other applicants to teach must secure
~ertificates by examination in all of
-the subjects requited for the dif
- ferent grades of certificates. This
Ssection reaches a number of schools
,operating under special acts of the
Slegislature whose graduates are ex
- amined only in "Theory and Art."
STheir work is usually of high school
I ggade, or below, and they should en
Sjoy no special favors.
16. Authority to renew second
FRED. CLAIBORNE'S PROTEST.
Methods by Which Elections are Carried in New Orleans
Exposed, renounced and Repudiated-Coercion and
Oppression of Voters Charged.
To the People of the State of Louisi
ana:
On the twenty-sixth day of Janu
ary I promised you, the people of my
state, to make a statement embodying
my reasons for not voting in the
Democratic primary 0: the day pre
vious, and to tell, whether nominated
or not, what I saw on election day in
the city of New Orleans.
In keeping with ls promise I will
say that I witnessed at the polls in
New Orleans acts that so fired my in
iignation as a citize,=a freeman and
i Democrat that afts carefully and
seriously considering tie situation it 1
was my honest and sineere conviction
that you, the good people of Louisi
ana, should be informe as to the un
lawful and fraudulont manner in
which that election Was conducted at
the dictum of the ward bosses of the
city. I was convinced&by what I saw
that it would be oft more benefit to
the people of my stdte for me to re
main where I was to b- an eye-witness
to these corrupt practices than to re
turn home by the i`oonday train to
cast my ballot as I had intended to do.
As I stood at thesvarious polling
booths of that city and witnessed the
principles of freedom of thought,
freedom of act, freedom of speech,
and every principle upon which
this American gov rnment is found
ed, ruthlessly tr led upon, I
was justified in wag uncompromis
ing war upon' ward= boss domination
than ever before sineei entered pub
lic life, now twenty 'gears ago.
I witnessed almost every form of
ilection fraud as practiced excepting
in a few precincts ad wards where
factional fights se to put a check
upon these high-h d proceedings.
Many voters ct o the polls in
fear to cast their flits contrary to
the marks indicate y the pink tick
ets.
A voter unfortu tly made the ad
mission in the preseee of others that
he had voted for `ne and was de
nounced publicly on the streets in
my pretence, by' oae of the city
judges, for having 1roted contrary to
the instructions as er the pink ticket.
He was reminded h he was under
obligation to the ring for favors con
ferred.
The coercion an 4*ppression were
so strong that I had a prominent citi
zen and physician take me three or
four blocks from the polling booth
and put me ui derpledge of secrecy
ma ake'4 h a lission that be
had disregarded= the instructions and
cast his ballot for me.
The henchmen of the bosses worked
faithfully all day with the pink tick
ets, some of which had holes cut in
them like stencils, through which
holes the ignorant were made to
scratch their pencil marks after plac
ing them over the official ballot.
The public polling booths were used
by the ring as their private property,
the notorious pink ticket as well as
photograph of the ring candidate be
ing posted upon the walls.
A majority of' the city employes
were diligent in their work at the polls
to carry out the mandates of the
ward bosses.
The saloons were permitted to op
erate on election day in that city in
violation of the election laws.
The statutes of the state require
that all safeguards be thrown around
the individual voter, such as the erec
tion of a barrier fifty feet from the
polling booth, that the voter may cast
his ballot free from outside interfer
ence, surveillance, or intimidation.
In many instances these regulations
were willfully violated.
The official ballots were permitted
to be handled outside of the polls and
on the streets.
The officers of the law stood by and
grade certificats is withdrawn. The t3
purpose is to stimisulate holders of low h
grade certificates to "move up." tt
17. Teacher`:in private schools t}
are required to,!neet the same stan- m
dards as to eetifeates and diplomas
as public schoolteachers.
18. Parish school boards are au
thorized to provide for the transpor
tation of children in wagons, boats, Ii
on trains, etc., biut they are prohibit
ed from making money appropria
tions to parents who furnish transpor
tation for their children.
19. School boards are empower
ad to sell sixteenth section timber
and lease sixteenth sections without
authorization of the voters in the
township.
20. School boards are authorized
to borrow money to meet current ex
penses within the budget of revenues.
21. The state board of education
is instructed to employ a teacher to
organize and supervise the work of
adult illiterate classes throughout the
state.
22. Parish school boards- are re
quired to furnish readers free to the
children attending the public schools,
providing as many as three sets of
readers for each grade through the
elementary schools.
23. State-widez compulsory school
attendance through the elementary
school period; applies to children be
tween the ages of seven and fifteen.
24. A pension of $300 a year to
retired teachers who have taught for
as many as thirty years in the public
schools and whosat income is less than
$1000 a year.
25. Commissions shall be paid on
only the poll and other taxes that
are actually collected. This reaches
the poll tax lists for which the school
boards pay, and. special school tax
extensions, not all of which is al
ways collected.
26. School treasurers shall give
I bonds signed by three financially re
- sponsible banks. This eliminates the
luscious graft enjoyed by indemnity
I companies.
saw these laws violated without in
terference.
Ward heelers who were so numer
ously in attendance around each poll
ing place were permitted to surround
the voting booth, enter and mark the
tickets for many of the voters who
did not request assistance nor were
they entitled to it. They were per
mitted to view the marking of the
tickets and destroy the secrecy of the
ballot.
The statutes of the state require
that all elections shall be conducted
in accordance with the Australian
ballot system to the end that the
sanctity of the secret ballot be pre
served and that, the inviolable right
of each elector to cast his own ballot
and vote for the candidate of his
choice without intimidation or inter
ference be assured. This was notori
ously disregarded. A system known
as the endless chain method was open
ly and shamelessly in evidence, this
being the system where the official
ballot is marked by the henchmen on
the streets, the voter depositing the
marked ballot in the box and return
ing the official-blank ticket given him
by the commissioner tQ the same
henchman from whom he had re
ceived the marked ballot. Each blank
ballot to be in turn marked and cast
in accordance with the instruction of
the ward boss as indicated by the
pink ticket.
I personally attempted to witness
the count and was refused admission
to the room, the doors of which were
closed and guarded by a policeman on
the outside. In this particular in
stance I would say further, not con
tent with being refused admission and
notified that the door was locked, I
again demanded admittance and was
again refused, when I saw through
the glass door the commissioners rise
from their seats and grab up a pile
of ballots.
For these several reasons which I
have specifically mentioned and many
others of like character which I have
no~, mentioned, I consider it my duty
to make this public statement to the
people of my state that they may
know how elections-are conducted un
der ward boss rule in New Orleans,
that they may take steps as their best
judgment and conscience shall dictate
to prevent a like recurrence in the
future.
The great political issue for Louis
iana today is whether we shall have
free and fair elections and an honest
count or whether the Democratic
party shall be dominated and controll
ed by the bosses, especially of the city
of New Orleans, and their methods.
If the people desire that the Demo
cratic party and its principles shall
survive and control in the state of
Louisiana they should see, to it that
the counsels of the party be not domi
nated by boss influence.
The system of boss rule can but act
as a cancer on the pody politic and un
less eradicated and destroyed the
party itself must go to destruction.
Holding to this view I wish to as
sure the people of the state that I in
tend to continue within the party my
fight against the bosses and their sys
tems. I have never submitted to
them in the past and my war against
them shall be more vigorously prose
cuted in the future, and this war
shall be.carried on by me as a Demo
crat and within the party.
If the party and its principles are
to be injured in any way it shall not*
be through any act of mine.
To the thousands of free, untram
meled and independent Democrats of
the state of Louisiana who honored
me with their ballot for the position
of lieutenant governor at the primary
election held on the twenty-fifth of
January I extend my most sincere
thanks. and I venture to express the
hope that they will find that my fu
ture political course fully justifies
them in the warm support they gave
me. -Respectfully.
FERD CLAIBORNE.
LIVE STOCK MARKET.
Information of Interest for Brbeders
and Shippers.
National Stock Yards, Ill., Fe'b. 21.
Cattle receipts 4000. Today's niar
ket was strong compared with last
week's close. Among the sales were
steers, $5.50 to $5.60; heifers, $5.6Q
'to $6.25; mixed, $4.25 to $5; cows,
$4.25 to $5.75; bulls, $4.75 to $5.75;
calves and yearlings, $4.65 to $8.50.
Hog receipts 13,500, of which 2000
were direct. Market was steady on
all good hogs, but slow on any other
grade. The top was $8.45, bulk of
the good corn-fed hogs 160 lbs. up
Sselling at $8.10 to $8.35; roughs,
S$7.50 to $7.75; 120 to 150 lb. pigs,
$7.25 to $8.10; light pigs, $5.75 to
$7. Any hogs that are not strictiy
e corn-fed are selling $1 to $1.25 per
o' wt. below these quotations..
e Ex-United States Senator WiQ.m..n
Lorimer of Illinois is on trial before
il the Chicago criminal court for his
y. share in wrecking the La Salle Street
e-Trust and Savings Bank in June,
1914, One of his partners, Chas. B.
0o Munday, was convicted last Novem
>r her. Ex-Gov. J. V. Sanders of Lou
ic isiana was an important witness for
.n the defense at the Munday trial, and
will doubtless be called upon to tes
na tify in the Lorimer case also.
esNine lives were lost and several per
ol sons injured wheii the opera house at
ix Mexia, Texas, was destroyed by a gas
d- explosion~and fire Feb. 16. Four ad
~joining buildings were burned also,
i'e the property loss reaching $100,4)00.
he "Body and Soul" at the Gem to
ty enorrow with Florence Rockwell in the
leading role.
