Capture of Outer Piltar of Verdun Fortifications Claimed by Germans
HARRISBURG TELEGRAPH
LXXXV— No. 43
GERMANS
VERDUN
FORTBYSTORM
Capture of Northeastern Pil
lar of Permanent Defense
Circling Great French
Fortress in Furious As
sault Claimed by Ger
mans; Places Teutons An
other Step Nearer Direct
Route to Paris
Serious Breaches Torn in
French Lines; Stronghold
Is Menaced From East and
Southeast as Well as North
and Northeast; Resistance
in Woevre Is Broken;
" Buckiing-up" Process on
Fortress May Be Used
I he tremendous German offensive aimed at Verdun is gain
ing force hourly and new and serious breaches have been made in
the French lines, Berlin announces to-day. The fortress is now
menaced from the and southeast, as well as from the north
and northeast.
Xot only has Fort Douaumont, one of the outlying defenses of
ilie stionghold been taken but hrench resistance on the plain of the
\\ oevre to the cast has been broken, according to the German bul
letin, which reports that the tiermans are pursuing their beaten loc
along the \Yoevre front to a point south of the Paris-Met* highway
which runs through Verdun.
rile buckling-up process being carried • >itt In the Germans 011
both sides of the salient in which Verdun lies would, if continued
iai enough, compel the evacuation of the fortress bv the French,
even should the Germans not be able to reach it by direct assault.
Paris Has Not Conceded Fall
Although the substantial successes noted are officially claimed
by the Germans. Paris has not conceded them. "After the last en
gagement our troops retained their position in spite of the repeated
assaults of the enemy, which no longer counts his sacrifices," the
afternoon bulletin declares. Regarding Douaumont, the outlying
fort whose capture i> announced by Merlin, the French statement
only declares that in this region the battle is still raging and ha.-
assumed a most sanguinary character.
The presence of Emperor William with the troops on the Ger
man front is confirmed by to-day's Berlin official statement.
Berlin, Feb. 26, via London.—lt is
iflicially announced that Fort Douau
niont( one of the fortifications of Ver
dun, was taken by storm yesterday
•ifternoon and is now firmly held by
the Germans.
The official announcement is as fol
lows:
"The armored Fort Douaumont, the
nortlieastern corner pillar of the per
manent ma in line fortifications of the
stronghold of Verdun wus slormed
yesterday afternoon by the 24th regi
ment of Brandenburg infantry mid is
now lirmly in German hands."
Fort Douamont lies four miles
northeast of Verdun. It is onu of
nearly :i score of forts circling Ver-•
dun and is situated just to the north
of the railroad running east from the
city of Metz. «
Douaumont is one of a cluster of
seven forts protecting Verdun from
the east. Forts De Sauville, De Ta
vanes and St. Michel lie directly be
tween (he position conquered by the
Germans and the city of Verdun.
Four Miles From Verdun
The conquest of this fort was made
by the right wing of the huge at
tacking army, which has scored the
greatest advance in the assault on the 1
French positions. Douaumont is
somewhat to the east of what has
hitherto been the principal line of
progress, being situated four miles
east of the Meuse river. The main
force of the German attack, as in
dicated by the previous official com
munications, was being exerted south
ward along the Meuse.
The capture of Douaumont is the
most important achievement since
the inauguration of the German drive
at Verdun, an onslaught which for:
fury and for weight of men and guns
has few precedents in the war. The
French war office has expressed con
{THE WEATHER li
For lla rrlshurir an<l vldnlt? t Port
ly cloudy t«»—»■ lit mill Sundays
not much change in tcmpernture;
(o-niKlil about 'IT* degrees.
For llastern Pennsylvania: Over
••ast In Mouth nnd probably nikmv
flurries In northern portion to
nluht; Monday partly overcast;
strong HfM(erly winds.
River
The SiiNMurliniimi river nnd its
principal branches will rise
"lightly, except tlie upper por
tions of tlie North and Went
branches will begin to tall to
night or Sunday. \« material
change** are likely to oeeur in lee
conditions. A stage of nhout
feet In Indicated for llarrlNburg
Sunday morning.
General Conditions
The const storm has eontlnued to
move iiortliwnrd with Increasing
Intensity and Is now central over
Southern \ew Knglnnd with low
est reported barometer reeding?,
IW.HS InelieN nt Roaton. It covers
the eastern half off the 1 nlteil
States and has caused raiu hihl
snow In the Middle Atlantic and
New Kngland States.
Temperature: 8 n. m., 30.
Sun: llise*, t1:43 a. nt.; set*, 5:53
p. m.
Moon: New moon, March 3, IO:.Vt
P. i*a.
River Stage: 4.0 feet above low
water mark.
Yeaterday'a Weather
Highest temperature, 37.
I.owest temperature. 32,
Mean tempernture. 341.
Normal tempernture, 32.
IIV C\ nit IKK n CENTS A. WEEK.
SINGLE COPIES 2 CENTS.
48f
i;
C£*f. OE CASTL EMJtlk
Hen. ilf Curlers de Castlenau, the
I'rench Ohief-of-Staflf who is directing
the defense of Verdun against the
gigantic attack of the Germans.
I lldence that notwithstanding the ad
mitted great strength of the German
drive, Verdun and its protecting fort
resses would be able to hold out.
These positions form what has been
regarded as one of the greatest strong
holds ot Europe. It is the strongest
fortress of France and is of particular
importance from the fact that it of
fers direct communication with Paris
which is 150 miles to the west.
I'illar of Outer Kim
V erdun marks the northerly point
of tlie great Prench defenses against
direct attacks from German territory,
the most southerly being Belfort, as
between these two points lies the
i stretch of frontier on which Germany
touches France. France has other
fort Hied points further north, though
in minor importance, as they were
along the line of contact with Belgium
and Luxenburg. The mos important
probably of these latter was Mau
beuge which was taken by the Ger
mans with sacrifices to them estimated
at the time, in September 19H as be
tween SO,OOO ami 1 10,000. Since that
date no Important fortress has fallen
to the <icrmans 011 the western front
At the same period a.desperate effort
was made to reduce Verdun and some
01 the incidents of the lighting which
then ocurred were of a memorable
I character.
During the siege of Kort Troyon,
near Verdun, in September 1914, the
I commander of the fort ceased to reply
to the bombardment. The Germans
it was said, believing that the fort had
been evacuated and approached in
order to destroy a redoubt. The com
mander of the fort then set fire to two
carloads of straw inside the structure
and the Germans convinced that their
shells had started the lire and that
they could easily take, the place, ad
vanced in close formation. The
rrench suddenly brought their ma
chine guns to bear with a deadly fire
1 and the bodies of 7.000 Germans 'were
said to have been abandoned on the
| slopes below Fort Troyon.
liloyd Fearful of Result
A dispatch from London of yester
2®y's dute sai 'l that Major General
sir Francis Lloyd, gecnral officer,
commanding the London district, in
a speech at the opening of a military
building declared that the battle be
fore Verdun was of momentous im
portance to Great Britain as well as
to France.
"Do you realize?" he asked, "that
a fight is now going 011 for a passage
to Paris. The result will hang in the
balance until the Teutons are driven
back, as 1 have great confidence he
will be. But if our allies' line is
pierced the way will be open to the
j French capital and if that capital is
reached a new complexion would be
put on the whole face of the war and
on our lives and being. A German
success on the .French front would not
merely mean the loss of Paris but
would endanger London."
I«os.s N'ot Admitted
The loss of Fort Douaumont, four
miles to the northeast of Verdun, how-
I ever, is not admitted in to-day's
French official statement, which de
clares that despite the desperate Ger
man assaults the French have main
tained their'positions.
While the German wing on the east
j lias been driven at Fort Douaumont
and its protecting trenches the center
of the Crown Prince's forces has
worked down (he Meuse valley until
it is hammering at the ridge" of I„a
Cote Dn Poivre, just south of Louve
| i,Continued on l'uge 6.J
HARRISBURG, PA., SATURDAY EVENING, FEBRUARY 26, 1916.
SCHWAB TO BUILD FOUR BLAST
FURNACES HERE IMMEDIATELY
CHARLES M. SCHWAB K. G. GRACE
Chairman Board of Directors Bethlehem Steel
Corporation. President Bethlehem Steel Corporation.
That it is the plan of Charles M. Schwab and his associates to make the big plant of the Pennsylvania Steel Com
: pany, at Steeltori, recently purchased, one of the busiest industries in the State, is evident from recent Interviews wlti
| E. G. Grace, the energetic young president of the Bethlehem Steel Corporation, and one of the men closest to Mr
Schwab.
In the course of a personal letter to the editor of the ilarrisburg Telegraph to-day. President Grace says:
" Vs I snill to your repr«'MciilHti\4' last WedueNtlay, the first ami most Important pliast- of (lie steel plant
requiring our iiuiiieillntt- attention. weeniN to li«> Mm* HI:o.I l-'lll'llncT anil Power Ui-pHrtmi-ntN. We liopc to
proeeeri promptly with Hit- upbuilding' of tht'ise two Important department!!, anil have In miuil eoiiMtriietliK
four ailtlltloiiHl blast furnaces iin <|iiiekly lis the layout can tie determined."
U. E. CONFERENCE
HAS MEMBERSHIP
OF 25 THOUSAND
' Church Property Worth Nearly
Two Million and Quarter
Report Shows
-
Reports submitted at the session of
1 the Kaat Pennsylvania ('"on Terence of
j the United Evangelical Church in Har
i lis Street. Church, Susquehanna and
I Harris streets, this morning showed
j substantial increases along all lines of
j the church's activities, with a total of
| 25.718 communicant members, a Sun
| day school enrollment of 44,634 and
j property holdings throughout the Har
j risburg, Alientown and Reading dis
| tricls totaling $2,150,235,
The conference wn<- opened this
morning with singing; led by Assist
ant Chorister M. M. Jones.' The Rev.
George ott, editor of the Evangelische
Zeitschrift, conducted the opening de-
I votions.
The Rev. G. C. Gabriel, of Central
[Continued 011 I'Hgc C.]
MANY CHANGES IN
RULES GOVERNING
CITY'S TRAFFIC
Will Become Effective March
1; Pedestrians Get Their
Orders, Too
i
i The new city traffic regulations, ef
fective March 1, contain complete!
rules for pedestrians, together with !
several important changes in the sys
tem in use now.
Each officer of the traffic squad has
j been furnished with a copy of the
regulations and Instructed in his
duties. In the new code vehicles turn
ing from one side of the street to the
1 other must make a complete semi
i circle and may not cross diagonally.
in the rules for pedestrians are warn
[Continued on Page 5.]
Hickok Co. Will Not
Make Munitions Says
President of Firm
W. Orville Hickok. 111, president of.
the W. O. Hickok Manufacturing Com
; puny, to-day declared that there was
1 ; not the slightest foundation for the
\ j report that the Hickok Company,
; which is just occupying a fine new
plant, is about to engage in the manu
j faeture of munitions.
"1 am at a loss to understand how
that rumor started," said Mr. Hickok.
• "Wo have no intention whatever of
engaging in the manufacture of mu
nitions. We propose to stick to Our
old line of book-binding machinery,
in which we have been engaged for
| years."
benxinukr a c.\ni>ii>atk
Representative' William M. Ben
ninger, one of the mainstays of the
Northampton delegation in the last
House of Representatives, to-day filed
1 papers to run again. J. W. Rieltel, of
Cowansvllle, filed papers to be a can- !
diihite for the House from Armstrong
i county. Joseph D. Weaver, New Ox-
Iford, filed a petition to run for Dem
ocratic State committeeman from Ad
ams county, 1
EDWARD L.KEARNS
APPOINTED HEAD
OF 18TH REGIMENT
Former Harrisburgcr Advanc
ed to Command Crack Pitls
burgh Organization
Edward E. K earn a, Pittsburgh law- ;
yer ami former resident of Harris-!
burg, was to-ilay appointed by Gov
ernor Brumbaugh to be colonel of the
Eighteenth Regiment of the National
Guard, with headquarters in Pitts
burgh. Colonel Kearns was lieutenant
colonel of the regiment and is one of
the lie*! known National Guard oMi -
cers in the State, while the Eighteenth
is near the top of the list, having been
commanded for years by General A. J.
Eogan, now c ommanding the Second
Brigade, and in line for command of
the National Guard of the State.
Mr. Kearns is a nephew of .Tunics
i [Continued on I'agc 13.]
HOTELS MAY BE
REQUIRED TO GO
'DRY' WEDNESDAY
Bars Musi Be Closed March 1
in Hostelries Not Licensed
by That Date
Will certain of the hotels and
| saloons in cit.v and county be com
pelled for a time, at least, to go "dry"
| after March 1?
That this is possible was the gen
eral opinion expressed by members
of the. Dauphin county bar this
morning when President Judge Kun
kel announced a postponement of
February Common Pleas court from
next week until the week of March
6 in order that the hearings on
! remonstrances against the score or
[Continued on Page 5.]
Hold Ex-Convict, Hoping to
Run Down Firebug Clues
Lewis Blouch, an ex-convict of 1427
* Vernon street, whom the police be
lieve, may aid them in solving the
series of incendiary tires on Allison
Hill, was held under S6OO bail for
court by Alderman Edward J. Hilton,
after a hearing last evening.
Blouch plead guilty to this charge.
Earlier in the day he was brought be
fore the alderman, accused of at
tempting to force an entry into the
001 l Manufacturing Plant, but was re
leased because the watchman, J. H.
Lowery, failed to identify Blouch as
one of the two men he saw trying to
1 enter the place.
With Blouch in jail waiting a court
1 hearing, the police believe, that they
have a start in running down the flre
| bugs. According to the police, bow
ery identified Blouch's picture and
•said he was almost positive that
Blouch was one of the two he saw at
the 801 l plant early Monday morning.
At the hearing, however. Lowery
failed to identify Blouch. The police,
instead of letting Blouch go, brought
a second charge against him—furnlsh
-1 ing liquor to 19-year-oIU Leonard
GIRL WITNESS IS
TAKEN OFF TRAIN
BY MULVIHILL
Stenographer "Kidnaped" at
Station in Pittsburgh
Suburb
Special to the Telegraph
Pittsburgh, Feb. 26. Miss Kath-I
erine Gallagher may be the innocent
cause of paving the way for the gov- !
ernmenl's first drastic step against {
James P. Mulvihill, of Pittsburgh, j
State leader of the liquor forces, as a'
result of "Jim's" step yesterday in 1
virtually "kidnaping" Miss Gallagher
from the Philadelphia train at East
j Liberty station, here.
Mulvihill took Miss Gallagher, who '
i is only IT years old. and her father,
j Charles F. Gallagher, to the office of
Attorney George E. Shaw, of brewery
I counsel, before she appeared in answer |
| to the suhpena served at the office of I
| Continued 011 Paso 12.]
More Silk Stockings
Remedy For Martial Woes
Special to the Telegraph
South Bend, Tnd., Feb. 26. —"If
there were more silk stockings worn
. 1 and women gave more time to better
; grooming, there would be fewer di
vorces and, I am very sure, fewer af
! Unities," was the statement of George
Burns Lacour, who is delivering a!
series of lectures.
The speaker stated that so-called
reformers had attacked the modern i
manner of dress, the short sleeves, i
the healthful low neck, the sensible, !
sanitary short skirt, and the much
mooted silk stockings as the cause
! of divorces and the social evil gener
! ally, when it is, in reality, but. the
, 1 awakening of the modern woman to
j demand comfort, fashion and health
• in dress.
; One union suit, a well-fitted corset,
! a brassiere, silk stockings and one silk
1 petticoat are the only essentials for a
! well-gowned woman, the speaker said.
Any added garments detract from the
I lines of the gown and even more im- !
portant, keep the air from circulating
next to the skin. The skin must
breathe fresh, pure air, as well as the
lungs.
IS, 13. 13, IS—IS, IS
Special to tlic Telegraph
Sunbury, Pa„ Feb. 26. E. L. Un
gard, a freight conductor on the .Sus
quehanna. Hloomsburg and Berwick
I railroad, at Watsontown, has as much
confidence in the figure 1:! as lias
1 ; President Wilson. Ungard carries
pass No. 13 on his railroad, running
out of Watsontown. He was conductor
on a freight train pulled by locomo
tive No. 13, which was wrecked on the
13th day o fthe month, causing the
. crew to make 13 hours and 13 minutes
overtime. The accident occurred on
his thirteenth wedding anniversary.
| He has never been hurt.
IIERRICK IN SENATORIAL RACE i
Special to the Telegraph
Columbus, 0., Feb. 26.—Myron T. i
Herrick, of Cleveland, ex-United I
States Ambassador to France, yester- 1
| day filed his declaration of candidacy !
| for the Republican nomination for
I United States Senator.
j SHOOTS WOMAN WHO
REJECTED HIM
Scranton, Pa., Feb, 26. Angered
I because his marriage proposal was,
I continually rejected by Mrs. Tony
Costa, Frank Aposilo to-day fired four
shots at her from across the street
land when ho saw her fall turned the
I weapon on himself, putting a bullet
lin his brain. Mre. Costa was slightly 1
iujured. J,
CONGRESS QUIETS
DOWN IN ARMED
VESSEL CRISIS
Submarine Situation Shifts
Back to Negotiations Be
tween I'. S. and Germany
1 "
WILSON STILL FIRM
Believed Allies Will Accept
Proposal to Disarm Mer
chant Ships
Washington. Feb. 26. With llie
apparent quieting; down of tlie situa
tion in Congress, the submarine
crisis shifts back to the negotiations
between Secretary Lansing and ('ount
Von Bernstorff.
Mr. Lansing said to-day there was
no intention of transferring the
negotiations to Berlin to be conducted
between Ambassador Gerard and the
Berlii/ Foreign Office, as was inti
mated .n dispatches published abroad,
and reiterated that the State Depart
ment had heard nothing more from
Germany on its request for a declara
tion that the new submarines cam
paign would not be conducted in viola
tion of previous assurances for the
safety of Americans traveling on un
| resisting liners.
While the situation in Congress ap
j pat ently is being held in check by the
administration leaders, the State De
partment continues to await receipt
of certain appendices to the Austro
j German notice which are intended to
j demonstrate that British armed mev
! chantships have used their guns of
] t'ensively against submarines. They
! are coming by mail.
On the situation as it now stands,
[Continued on Page 5.]
VIL-XIAGE IJGCKUI' STOLEN
Beaver Falls, Pa., Feb. 26.—The
j lockup of the little village of Hoine
| wood, five miles north of here, is mys
i terlously missing. The building, which
j had a steel cage for two prisoners,
was a wooden structure with iron
| gratings over ihe windows. Yesterday
i Constable Ei ltman, of Homewood,
brought a prisoner to the county jail
i here and the disappearance of the
! lockup became known. It is said that
a farmer, whose name is unknown,
j passing the lockup late one evening.
placed it on his wagon and carted it
1 away. Constable Ecltman believes it
is being used for a chicken coop or
1 kennel.
HELD HIGHWAYMAN ?
Harrisburg.—Marion Churchman, charged with holding I
A
1 held for court under #I,OOO bail by Alderman Nicholas at ft
polite co, •. ic"lay. L
"BJL T *V ' MA" AND REST OF PARTY HERE (|
b J
1 more where a campaign will be started to-morrow, |
£ "M . the rest < $
J ped oil here between trains this afternoon. |
i DI JNK; TWO DEAD; SEVEN MISSING f
| 5.- Lloyds announces the sinking of the f
1 P
T members of the crews are missing. Of five I
X s, who were picked up two died. I
EVACUATE DURAZZO
I The report that Durazzo, an Albanian L
I J
& troops s< d there is confirmed. X
i NINE KILLED IN ITALIAN WRECK 1 *
T Cortona, Italy Feb. 26.—A military train was derailed j ;
I and the locomotive, baggage car and four * *
T . wrecked. Nine persons were killed and more ; '
f than lift) :cd. I *
| PENETRATE GERMAN LINES IN CHAMPAGNE 1
t Berlin, Feb. 26, via London.—The French forces in the g »
9 Champagne district have made an attack on the German po- 1
I sitions south of St. Marie-a-Py. The war office statement JL
3 day s iys the French penetrated the first German trenches j
1 over a -distance of about 250 yards.
ONE ARMED SHIP LETTER HERE [
« I bin {ton, Feb. 26.—Secretary Lansing announced V
! to-day that one of the entente allies had replied to his sug-' ! ;
, gestion f r the disarmament of merchantships. He declined I
'he reply or to tell from which govern |
' ing he probably would make all the teplies | >
' public h.n tl-w vci; rtieiycJ . :
j, MARRIAGE ■
I .loci Hnrrnan and Sophia Hay Ahrlnon, Philadelphia.
I John Haptlat Knott aud \ono Alena Griffith, Mtooun. L
C Hoy took, city, and Ada May Wclkcr, ItlllNhurK. ?
Qi ii W» mV|)ii ii Vijii' ii
CITY EDITION
18 PAGES
DAILY WAGE RULE
IN COMPENSATION
FOR 2,000,000 MEN
Compensation Board Deter
mines Upon Plan Which Will
Affect All Employes
QUESTION LONG AGITATED
Miners and Organized Kail
road Men Vitally Affected
by the New Ruling
The State Workmen's Compensation
Board settled ujion a plan for deter
mining what shall constitute a daily
wage in compensation affairs after
having had the matter under discus
sion for two months. The decision
was reached after a consultation with
Attorney General Brown and Commis
sioner of Labor Jackson and the State
officials say that they are prepared to
stand u lest of it even in the courts.
The ruling on this question which
will affect over 2.000.000 wage-earners
in the State and which vitally concerns
miners, railroad men and iron and
steel workers is a:i follows:
"Wages is the amount in money
\alue agreed upon in the contract of
employment, written or oral, in force
[Continued on Page 12.]
Five-Year-Old Roosters
Stolen; Halifax Cops
Seek Dislocated Jaw
j [From Our Halifax Correspondent.]
Halifax, Pa., Feb. 26.—During the
week some, dirty scoundrel has been
visiting the henneries about town
owned by some of our well-known citi
zens and lias been helping himself L>
some of the chickens.
The thief is suspected by the towns
i people and will get a warm reception
of hot lead if he visits these parU
again. On one of his midnight toun
he stopped to look over J, S. Gember
ling's coop and the next morning fin>
I specimens of five-year-old rooster:
1 were not present for their breakfast
I M. W. Etter and Mrs. Jane Millet
'also reported serious losses in the raid.
We are really surprised that w<
have people in this peaceful and law
abiding town who are compelled to
i steal to make a living—but sometime.
I wolves ARE found among sheep.
p. S.—The police of Halifax, it i
reported, are looking for a man with
a dislocated jaw.
