1,1-1,1 l 1
I Today's Metal Prices " fT L A 1 jvV 4 V WlVvV vTV' '" 1 P- M- C,n ED
II v voROTAT,oNS U JIPU MI Ml II 2S)Iil llllil I 11 " TWENTY-FOUR PAGES
New York, Feb. 26SHver, 66 7-8c; L M L Jl JT JW A f "J J ' '1K' f , wvsww ' -M
r 3 ; lead, $6.35; spelter, not quoted; cop- "sJ F ' WJL Vym. C V 'V T W "W W T W T (- WEATHER-Utah: Rain or Snow ftH
la Per fJrm electorlytic, $28.50 and f " Tonight and Sunday; Not Much J I H
V I 527-00 t0 $27'50' W 2 , Change In Temperature. M
j : HAS THE LARGEST AID SUBSCRIPTION ilST IN OGDEN AND WEBER COUNTY. : r--1
. ? . -,
jli ' Forty-sixth Year-No. 49. Pricft: Five Cents. OGDEN CITY, UTAH, SATURDAY EVENING, FEBRUARY 26, 1916. Entered as Second Cla3s Matter at the Pwtof file. Oc4en. LUb. ' 1
MS . v l
Berlin Reports Capture of Northern Key I
J . Fort to Great French Stronghold of I
l Verdun ; Most Momentous Event of War I
! ; FRENCH AND GERMANS SUSTAINING
HOTTEST FIGHTJF ENTIRE WAR
I ! Germans Gain Possession of Hills and Fortified Positions
I ' In the Plain of Woevre Entire French Front Breaks Down
I Armored Fort of Douaumont Is Carried by Storm
I 1 In Champagne French Penetrate German
I ! Lines Over 250 Yards Austrians
1 J Take Durazzo.
Rome, Feb. 26, via Paris, 4:40 p. m. The report that
t, Purazzo, an Albanian port on the Adriatic sea, had been evac-
3 'r uated by the Italian troops stationed there, is confirmed.
? An official statement says: "The Italian brigade at Dur-
- i azzo has been withdrawn and has embarked the Albanian gov-
jfl :' ernment having left the place. The withdrawal of the Serbian,
sli Montenegrin and Albanian troops from Albania has been
log completed.
w 1
io j ' Amsterdam, Feb. 26, via London, 3:45 p. m. The Ger-
?J jnans have gathered a considerable number of troops in Flan-
43 j ders and artillery reinforcements have been continuously ar-
Jj j riving since September, according to the Echo Beige. Not less
aa I tian eighteen attacks were made recently by the Germans
j3 against the narrow front at Steenstraete on the Comines canal,
M I south of Hill No. 1 60, declares the newspaper. Only two at-
m I tacks had any success but the German losses must have been
rifl 1 heavy, it adds, it being estimated that the killed and wounded
H I .totalled 1 7,000.
oil
jl f Zurich, Feb. 26, via London, 4:36 p. m. German news-
9 papers received here admit that heavy losses are being sus-
il j tained in the Verdun offensive and warn the public against ex-
j travagant hopes. The Frankfurter Zeitung declares that the
j German regiments are "fighting in a sea of fire."
m j. Berlin, Feb. 2,6 via nondon, 3:32 p. m. The French
m ' forces in the Champagne have made an attack on the German
fit i positions south of St. Marie-a-py. The war office statement
fl today says the French penetrated the first German trenches
m over a distance of about 250 yards.
9
Wl London, Feb. 26, 12:45 p. m. Lloyds announces the
'II ' sinking of the British steamer Denaby of 2,987 tons, and the
j I steamer Tummel of 531 tons. Seven members of the crews
;M are missing. Of five survivors who were picked up, two died.
tH
S, Paris, Feb. 26, 2:35 a, m. The Ger-
jofl u mans are continuing their violent at-
im tackB nortn of Verdun without regard
ivfl to their sacrifices, the war office an-
ym a nounced this afternoon.
H The German attacks in the region
sM of Douaumont, cast of the Meuse, have
xM 1 failed, the war office aaid, notwlth-
,-M i standing repeated attaclcs t and tre-
iiH mendouB slaughter.
wM The text of the statement follows:
g i "The fighting Is still being carried
:M ? on flercelv in the region north of
VI Verdun where the enemy continues his
iH i efforts on the front east of the
rH Meuse. After the last engagement,
H ' our troops retained their positions in
SS i 8Plte ot tne repeated assaults of the
H 5 Mem' which, no longer counts his
H 1 sacrifices.
. . Bloody Fighting Rages.
er "In the region of Douaumont the bat-
il.j tie, which is still raginghas taken
om on a most sanguinary character.
fm ; "On tho front of the Woevre the ad-
nfl ; -vance post, which we hold as lines of
infl observation from Ornes to Hennemont
isl'', since the battles of last year, have
gtli been atacked by infantry forces from
imk both sldeB of the Meuse. Our artillery
yM ii on both right and left banks of tho
D " rIyer replied, without ceasing, to the
iim 'I bombardment of the enemy.
$M I "Nothing of importance has occur-
jym 5 Te& on tbe remainder of the front."
irm ,t London Anxiously Awaits News.
4M ' London Fob. 26, 12:56. p. m. The
JJH or.lv word concerning the German
ufl J claim to taking the armed fortress of
gtiB 5 Douaumont, outsldo of Verdun, comes
iVM I through German sources. Further In-
S ', formation Is awaited anxiously, owing
m i to the recognized strategic Importanco
M f of this fort, which is tho base of solid
W i field works on a line of hills 1000
jjM i feet high, about six miles northeast
9 of Verdun. , m ..
JB : The last detailed information
mm if showed tho French holding lines two
M 7 and a half miles beyond Douaumont
jS with this powerful fortress and us
M field works giving steady support.
Hottest Engagement of War.
The Pall Mall Gazette sayB tne
mm French are sustaining an assault
' equaling In intensity the hottest en-
iH gagements of tho entire war.
'9M The Westminster Gazette express-
SB i es confidence that the main mJs as
jfB, is impregnable. It predicts that the
Hl principal result of the German attack
flj will be tremendous losses, which win
S9I' cripple the effectiveness of the Ger
gflBl mans in subsequent operations.
'fU Berlin, Feb. 26, via London, 3:30 p,
-&M m, An official statement issued to
"a L.
v
day sajs that considerable advances
have been made eaBt of the Meuse In
the region north of Verdun, in tho
presence of Emperor William.
The war office also announced the
capture of the hills southwest of the
city ot Louvemont and tho fortified
positions to the east thereof
Resistance of the French broke
down on the Woevre plain along the
entire "front of Marphoyille, south of
the high road from Paris to Metz.
"We are pursuing the ' retreating
enemy" the statement says
It was announced by the German
war office today that the capture of
tho village of Champneuvllle, in the
Verdun sector, reported yesterday was
based on erroneous information.
The statement follows
"Western front: On the night of
February 25 an advance by a British
detachment east of Armontiores was
repulsed.
"In the Champagne the French
made an attack south of St Marie-a-py
pooition, which re captured on Feb
ruary 12. They suceeded in penetrat
ing "our first line trenches over a
width of about 2R0 yards.
"East of the Meuse corfsfderable ad
vances were made on the battle front
in the presence of the king-emperor.
Our bravo troops gained possession
of the hills southwest of the village of
Louvemont and the group of fortified
positions situated east thereof In
the fierce rush forward Brandenburg
regiments pushed on as far as the
village and armored fort of Douau
mont, which they carried by storm.
1 "In the plain of the Woevro tho en-
emy's resistance broke down along
' the entire front as far as the nelgh
i borhodd of Marphoville (Marchevllle),
i south of the national highroad from
1 Paris to Metz. Our troops are close
- ly pursuing the retreating enemy. t
" "The capture of the village of
i Champneuvllle, report yesterday, was
based on an erroneous report.
t "Eastern theater: Apart from suc
i cessful engagements participated in
by our vanguards there Is nothing to
report.
J "Balkan theater: The situation is
t unchanged."
Germans Rely on Gases,
Paris, Feb. 26, 5:50 a. m. The PetH
3 Parlslen says that the battle now rag
9 ing before Verdun was preceded oc
iv February 12 by a feint in Champagne
1 Intended to divert attention from the
- coming attack on Verdun. The attacl
In the Champagne on February 12
which was conducted in three succea
i. sive waves, failed chiefly because th
- change of wind, the Petit Pnrisler,
says, rendered Ineffective a large
quantity of asphyxiating gas and flame
throwers which weie relied upon for
the success of the attack.
Rear Admiral Dies.
Amsterdam, Feb. 26, via London,
10:50 a. in. The Cologne Gazette an
nounces the death of Rear Admiral
Zlmmerraann at Wilhemshaven and
that of Lieutenant-General Hans von
Prittwltz und Gaffron at Brig.
Heavy Fighting Near Bltlls.
London, Feb. 26. 11.10 a. m The
Amsterdam correspondent of the Cen
tral News learns that heavy fighting
has taken place ten miles from Bitlis
between Russian and Turkish troops,
the former coming from the direction
of Mush, and that the Turks fought
bravely but were forced to retire be
fore superior forces.
Finance Minister Resigns.
Madrid, Feb. 26. via Pans, 4'40 p
m. Finance Minister TJrzaiz has re
signed on account of differences of op
inion with the other members of th
cabinet regarding the financial policy
of the government. Foreign Minister
Villaneuva has assumed the financial
portfolio and Count Alvaro de Roman
ones, the premior, has taken charge of
the foreign office.
American Nurses at Front.
London, Feb. 26, 12:15 p. m Thirty-three
American nurses, most of
them from Mercy hospital, Chicago,
left London today for the British front
They have been detailed to service for
six "months in field hospitals. The
nurses had been in London for nearly
two weeks, gathering their equipment.
Emperor inspects Ships.
Copenhagen, Feb 26 Via London.
12 42 p. m The Wilhelmshaven Zei
tung states that Emperor William ar
rived at Wilhelmshaven on Wednes
day morning and Inspected the war
ships there. He departed the same
evening.
Socialists ABks Questions.
London, Feb. 26, 12 22 p m. Phil
lip Snowden, Socialist member of the
house of commons for Blackburn, has
given notice that he Intends to ask
Premier Asquith on Tuesdav whether
the British government ascertained
.from all the allies of this nation, be
fore the conclusion of the agreement
i hot to make a separate peace, what
i their object was in tho war and what
I they expected in the way of guaran
tees, territorial concessions and trade
and economics opportunities.
Military Train Derailed.
Cortoua, Italy, Feb 23 Via Pari'?.
3:25 p m A military train was de
railed here today and tho locomotive,
baggage car and four coaches were
wrecked Nine persons were killed
and more than fifty Injured.
Review of War Situation.
The tremendous German offensive
aimed at Verdun is gaining force
hourly and now and serious breaches
have been made in the French lines.
Berlin announced today The fortress
is now menaced from tho oast and
southeast, as well as from the north
and northeast.
Although, the substantial successes
noted a officially claimed by the
Germans, Paris has not conceded
them. Regarding Douaumont, the out
lying fort whose capture is announced
by Berlin, the French statement only
declares that In this region the battle
is still raging and has assumed a
most sanguinary character.
The presence of Emperor William
with tho troops on tho Gorman front
Is confirmed by today's Berlin offi
cial statement.
An official announcement from
Rome confirms the report that the
Albanian port of Durazzo has been
evacuated by the Italians.
The tremendous German drive for
Verdun is continuing with undimin
ished fury
Berlin today claims tho breaking of
the cordon of protecting forts by the
capture of Fort Douaumont, four miles
to the northeast of Verdun.
Tho loss of this outlying fortifica
tion, however, is not admitted In to
day's French official statement which
declares that despite tho desperate
German assaults, tho French have
maintained their positions.
While the German wing on the east
has been driving at Fort Douaumont
and Its protecting trenches, the center
of the crown prince's forces has work
ed down the Meuse valley until It is
hammering at the ridge of La Cote du
Poivre. Just south of Louvemont and
about four and a half miles north ot
the main fortress.
Germans Ignore Sacrifices.
All along the Verdun front the Ger
mans are hurling their men against
the French lines without regard to
sacrifices, ParlB declares, the lighting
being particularly desperate In tho
region of Boaumont, almost directly
north of Verdun.
The rain of sholl fire in the Sep
tember offensive of the allies was at
tho time without precedent, but cor-
- respondents nar the front declare
- that it was feeble In comparison with
i the deluge of projectiles which at preB
, ent is being poured upon the French
trenches and fortifications from the
t massed batteries of tho Germans,
, French Lines to Hold,
-i Later Paris advices reflected the
3 opinion of military observers that the
I I French lines would hold until a counts
GALICIAN TOWN TAKEN ANft RETAKEN BY AUSTRIANS AND RUSS
Street scene in Brzczany.
The unfortunate city of Brzezany in East Galicia has been in the midst of a great deal of fighting be
tween the Austrians and Russians since the beginning of the war. It has been taken and retaken severa
times by the fighting armies as they have surjred to and fro.
ter offensive was ready to be launch:
ed: " '
Late advices from Albania through
German sources predicted the early
fall of Durazzo, as the result of a de
feat of the Italian and Albanian for
ces by tho Austrians and Germans.
A Petrograd dispatch says the Rus
sians have captured the Persian city
of Kermanshah which brings them
within 150 miles of the beleaguered
British at Kut-el-Amara.
(Continued on Page Seven).
unj
RUSSIANS TAKE
FFTV DV PTflDM
Important Persian Position
Falls After Serious Fighting
Kurd Activities to End.
London. Feb. 26. 7 a. m. A Router
dispatch from Petrograd says that the
Russians have taken by storm Ker
manshah, tho important Persian city
in the neighborhood of which serious
fighting has iccently taken place.
An official dispatch from Teheran,
published yesterday, said that after a
series of battles in tho mountain
passes, as a result of which the Rus
sians captured a considerable quanti
ty of booty, the Turks, who had been
aided by Germans, had retreated to
wards Kermanshah. Kermanshah Is
280 miles southwest of Teheran and
has a population of about 30,000. The
routes from Bagdad, Shuster, lspa
ham by way of Ilamadan, and Sulei
mauiyah meet there and make the
cltv an important center of traffic.
Tho Russian operations in Persia,
which have culminated In the cap
ture of Kermanshah have had the lo
ca' purpose of putting an end to the
activities of hostllo mountain forces
and organized bands of Kurds, and it:
is believed that they have the broader
scope of preparing tho way for a
junction of tho Russians with the.
British expeditionary forces in Meso
potamia, The movement of tho Rus
sians from Ilamadan southwestward
to Kermanshah brings them now to
within 130 miles of Kut-el-Amara, on
tho Tigris, whore General 'Town
shfnd's British force which was as
cending the river for the conquest ot
Bagdad, is besieged by the Turks.
FALL OF DURAZZO
Austrians and Germans Make
Strong Attack on Italian
and Albanian.
Berlin, Feb. 25, via London, Feb. 26,
12-45 a, m. Reports from Austria
press headquarters predlctytbe early
fall of the Albanian city of Durazzo as
a result of tho defeat on Wednesday
of the Italians and tho Albanian for
ces under Essnd Pasha, tho provision
al president, a strong line of outer
defenses for tho city have been con
structed and the Indications wero that
spirited resistance would he offorod.
The Austrians and Germans attack
ed at daybreak. The defenders were,
soon ejected -from their positions at
Bazar, SJak. Shortly afterward the
Itallansjon the south bank of the low
er Arzen were forced to abandon their
positions The Austrians crossed the
river and proceeded southward.
At nocn a decisive action east of
Bazar Sjak drove the Italians from
strong positions. Tho same fate was
suffered by the defenders of Sasso
Bianco, six miles east of Durazzo. By
evening the entire outer girdle of de
fenses was taken The attackers ad
vancing to their inner lino positions,
established the fact that the Italians
were embarking their troops hurriedly.
ITALIAN GIVEN
SEVERE PENALTY
Pietro Rossi Found Guilty of
Murderous Assault on Chi
cago Woman in Flor
ence Train.
Rome, Feb. 25, 7.30 p. m , via Paris.
Feb. 26, 2.15 a. m. Pietro Rossi was
found guilty today at Arezzo on the
charge of murderous assault against
Mrs. Mary Flavelle of Chicago in a
railroad train between Florence and
Arezzo on May 21, 1914, for tho pur
pose of robbery. Ho was sentenced
to eight years and four months im
prisonment and to two years special
surveillance by the police and to per
petual interdiction from public ser
vice. The Jury found that Rossi was
only partially responsible for his ac
tions, being not wholly sound of mind
Mrs Flavelle returned to the Unit
ed States following tho attack and
died in Chicago on December 11,
1014.
uu
x
Farm Hand Toils Small Life
time to Earn Employer's
Daughter for Bride
Death Robs Him.
Des Moines, Iowa, Feb. 26. Lewis
O. Bates, a farm hand who worked
for twenty years on farms owned by
tho late Edward Howell and his daugh
ter, Jennie, without salarv, expecting
as a reward that Miss Howell should
be his wife, will receive $15,300 as a
result of a Jury's decision in the Polk
county district court.
Bates contended ho worked with an
understanding thnt when Mr. Howell
died ho would marry Miss Howell.
Mr. Howell died and the death of his
daughter followed soon after Bates
sued the estate for ?40,000 back pay.
NEGROES SENTENCED
NINETY-NINE YEARS
Danville, 111., Fob. 26. "Big John"
Murphy and Milton Armstrong, ne
groes, were found guiltv or murdor by
a jury hero today and sentenced to
the penitentiary for ninety-nine years
each for murdering two Greek track
workers. Murphy and Armstrong set
up an alibi claiming they were rob
bing a store in Champagne at the time
of the murder.
Tfl' FATE CALMLY
Prays on Scaffold, Invoking
Divine Blessing on Colo
rado Warden and All
Witnesses.
Canon City, Col., Feb. 26. Oscar
Cook was executed here at 5.15 this
morning, for the murder of Andrew J
Lloyd and William McPherson in Den
ver March 10, 1912.
Cook made no confession, or refer
ence to the crime, according to wit
nesses. Ho remained calm to the
end, going to the scaffold praying
audibly.
Invokes Divine Blessing.
"Good-bye to all" were his last
words Just before leaving his cell,
he said, "I was not meant for the
world " He invoking dlvino blessing
for Warden Tynan and all tho wit
nesses. Cook apparently had been reconcil
ed to his fate for several days, de
spite efforts of his sister, Miss Myrtle
Douthat, who made repeated pleas to
Governor George Carlson for execu
tive clemency Ho received calmly
last night the statement that all hope
for clemency had A-anished.
UJ
DOCTOR PERFORMS
ILLEGAL OPERATIONS
Chicago, Feb. 26. To save his bride
and himself from gossip, Dr. Lester
Long, a young physician, performed
thrco Illegal operations on his wife,
the last of which resulted in her death
last night. ThlB was the statement
mado by Dr. Long to the police, who
Is being held pending the verdict of a
coroner's Jury.
In threo 'days, Dr. Long said, ho
performed three such operations with
the consent of his'bride. Blood pois
oning resulted.
oo
ECUADOR HARD
HIT BY WAR
Washington, Feb. 26. Ecuador's
foreign trade has been hard hit by
the war, according to consular dis
patches to the department of com
merce today. Exports to virtually all
countries, including the United States,
dropped far below 1914 figures. No
explanation wa3 made in the dispatch
es of tho decreaso in shipments to
this country.
Tho United States takes nearly ono
ha!f of Ecuador's cocoa output the
country's principal export product,
four fifths of the country's hides and
all the rubber shipped.
uu
Theodoro Harto, general agent of
the Western Pacific railroad at Salt
Lako City, was a visitor yesterday at
tho Ogden uptown offico of the Den
vor & Rio Grande. I
BIG SCARE AT I
GRAIN ELEVATOR I
Aeroplane Discovered Soaring j B
Over Spot Where Millions ', H
of Bushels of Wheat ' H
Are Stored. mml
i H
Superior, Wis., Feb. 26. Watchmen j H
guarding big grain elevators contain- I H
ing millions of bushels of wheat for H
the allies, were alarmed early today W,
when an aeroplane, soaring 3,000 feet j jH
in the air, circled. aboe the docks I IH
for half an hour. ' H
The machine was observed Just be- j W,
fore dawn. "When it became light, it H
disappeared in the direction of tho H
new plant of the Minnesota Steel H
company on the St. Louis river. WMM
An aeroplane recently was sighted , IH
near the Du Pont powder plant ot MmW
Washburn. mwM
rn ' 1
WOMAN TRIEO I
FOR PERJURY I
Florence Anderson Sentenced , B
to Ten Months in County H
Jail at San Francisco. H
' H
San Francisco, Feb. 26. Florence I H
Anderson, the first woman in many H
years to be tried on a perjury chargo , H
in the local United States district . H
court, today has before her a sentence H
of ten months in the county Jail. She H
was found guilty yesterday and sent- I H
enced by Judge Maurice T. Dooling. ' IH
Following her conviction, the dis- ' H
trict attorney's office announced a pol- H
icy of prosecuting all perjurers with- H
out regard to sex. Deputy United mW,
States District Attorney M. A. Thorn- , H
as said: ' W,
"So many women come before the j W,
grand jury and the United States com- ; W,
missioner and swear falsely that the " W
United States attorney's office has de- . W,
elded to prosecute all who commit per- W,
jury. I feel that a certain class of mwM
women who are identified with whit9 jW
slave cases have combined to defeat ' 'MmW
justice and have planned to swear . IIH
falsely ''when It becomes necessary. J lMMm
This is but the first case, but it' has jH
been decided to bring all offenders Id wAW
this regard to justice." lH
oo 'H
BRITISH ADHERE I
TO WAR POLICY I
Evidently Intend to Hold 38 'M
Germans, Austrians and
Turks Taken From Am- Lm
erican Liner. H
, M
London, Feb. 26 Pursuant to in- .
structions from Washington, Ambassa- ' fl
dor Page mado inquiries concornlng W,
the removal of men from the British M
converted cruiser Laurentic of 3S Ger- mWM
mans, Austrians and Turks from the J H
American China orf Shang Hal. Tho H
subject is still under consideration by W.
British authorities and there are no M
indications what reply will be given. I mM
Although the circumstances of this H
case cannot be ascertained at pres- i M
ent, it is understood the action taken W
was in accordance with tho police of ' n
the British government adopted early 1
In the war for tho removal of reserv- H
Ists of hostile nations and of other H
aliens regarded as hostile to allied W
interests. & 1 1
In well informed circles here It Is m
believed there will be no abatement of WMW
this policy. mWt
EPIDEMIC RAGING
THOUSANDS DYING
London, Feb. 26, 6:43 n. m. The I jH
Exchange Telegraph company's Rome
correspondent says that advices have tl
been received in that city from Zurich . W
to tho effect that an epidemic of MH
cholera Is raging in Croatia, and that H
Its victims .are numbered in the thou- jH
sands and aro chiefly women and H
children. H
SPETCBESCONVERTED
INTO CATTLE FODDER
Berlin, Feb. 25, 11:10 p. ra., via Lon- 1
don, Feb. 26, 10:15 a. m Tho bunde- H
srat has adopted an ordinance requlr- 9 H
Ing the conversion of spetches Into H
fodder for livestock. Heretofore, this . H
offnl from skins, hides and the liko 1 H
was used mainly for making glue anil H
gelatine The bundesrnt also adopted H
a measure prohibiting the Importation H
of "luxuries which can be dispensed jH
mm
JmrnM
