ijgffij Keep Posted on Am. fort Gaflyon-bfcjjming Mining Camp ol the Stale fOjgyjs 1
I AmericaniJrFCiti2ei
I V0L- X1" AMERICAN FOlteUffW.jffiyUmAY, FEimt'AUV seTww! NUMBER 4 11
1 1 Mines and Mining
I PACIFIC STOCK GOES
I SKYRGGKEriNG
H Slock (or Which 10 cents was Ilcln
Offered Two Weeks Ago, 'ow Jte.
fused 40 cents Full llreast of Ore
H In 'ew Upraise.
H Two weeks ago several blocks or
H Pacific stock woro being offered at
H from 10 ccntB to 12 cents per share.
Gradually tho price began to climb
and yesterday an offer of 0 cents was
made with none to bo obtained at this
figure. People who have kept posted
by reading of the mine's behavior, ns
H given In this paper, were not sur
H prised at the rapid rise of the stock,
nnd would not be at nil surprised to
sec It reach a valuo of $1.00 per share,
as this figure would only 'giro the
H property a valuation or $400,000. Tho
Fissure Leasing Co.'s stock, while
H none Is for sale, is reported to be
worth $480 por share, which gives the
Leasing company a valuation of a
little over three quarters of n million
dollars. It is difficult to say just
what Pacific stock Is really worth, but
next week will probably see offers of
H SO cents refused, and it will bo no sur
H prise to those best posted to see it
mount to $1.00 before tho summer is
H wcl advanced.
H fnst week tho miners were put to
H work making an upraise from the tun-
H net level 1C0 feet north of where it
intersects the fissure, to connect with
a drift that had been run from thj
H air shaft 100 feet above. This is part
H of the blocking out process being done
by Mr. Miller, so that when he gctu
ready the extruding process may be
H the moro easily done. A telephone.
message announced that tho upraise
J H had gone but a short distance when
. M r full face of ore was broken into,
, Br This. liUQOHncctlon.wilhJHtliojiuani
-B other sensational developments icpnj
ncctod with the property, may have.
been tho cause of the jump in UiJ
M price of the stock.
Mr. Miller, tho superintendent, who
has been down from tho mine for two
I weeks returned early In tho week.
A wager was posted Thursday that
Pacific stock would go to $2.00 per
' B share beforo October 1, 1916.
I THE CANYON NEEDS
I A GOOD HOTEL
I Hundred of People Will lie Their
I I'lio CoiiiIiik Summer mill Will He.
iiilrc Hotel Accommodation.
H WIiq will build tho big hotel in the
J cnnon that the coming season's nc-
tlvitlcH will certainly demand? Any
J one or u scoro or American Fork's
uionuy men could do It, or It might
H ho well lor several or them to join
H and form a company and do It. It ic
estimated that at least thirty dltfcrent
j mining compaules will have men In
9J tho cump soon as spring opens, doing
H development work. At six men to the
group this would mean 180. OcsldcD
this there will bo muny moro develop-
lug privato claims, and tlicro will be
borne of tho old style prospectors with
HJ his loll of blankets and sack ot flour
on tho buck or his fultliful burro. It
H 1h prcEumcd that the producing mines
w'll maintain their own boarding
houses. Uut thoro will bo many vlslt
B ors to tho canyon from all parts of
the country, and theso 'should bo well
I taken care of when they cftme.
I It Is suggested that h building oftor
the stylo or Pino Crest Inn, In Imlgra-
tlou Canyon, or tho Hermitage, In Qg-
den Canyon, would bo tho proper stylo
ot aichltccture. While the snow is on
tho hillsides, would bo an opportune
ttmo to cut tho logs mid slide them
down.
American Fork 1b sulci to bo tho
most beautiful canyon in Utah, with
its hanging rocks, Its caves, crystal
lakes, tall forests and rugged scenery.
With a sultablo Inn where tho plcas
uro seeker could get accommodations,
the tourist, truvcl wouldb o consider
able, and with a llttlo judicious adver
tising the canyon could be made as
ramous for Its scenery as for its
mines.
n
WANT GOVERNMENT
TO MAKE SURVEY
American Fork and tho Cottonwood,,
Hacked by tho American Mining
Congress, lime Asked tho (loicrn.
ment to Make (Jeologlcnl Suney.
About thirty different mining com
panies, operating in American Fork
Canyon, during tho past week have
signed affldavito and requests asking,
the Department of the Interior to
muko a thorough geological-report and
survey of thoiAlta-Amcrlcan Fork dis
trict. The companies operating on the
Altii side of the mountain have made
similar requests and It is thought thut
tho department will order the work
done. The Utah Chapter or tho Ameri
can Mining Congress Is back or the
movement. About two years ago
tho American Fork mining men mnao
a similar request and were backed
up by our senators and representa
tive. It Is now thought that with
tho new development In tho canyon
and tho activities in the Cottonwood
tho survey will be ordered.
In making the survey asked tor,
the department will send out Bovcral
or tho best mining engineers In Its
norvico who will study thoroughly
all the formations in tho district, the,
ore. .occurences, fissures, etc.. and,
feature them with sultablo charts,
maps 'ami other Illustrations. No other1
jlJjQyujg.B.tatq has euchtprpnouncj
cd Burfaco mineralization extended ovi
or so wide an area, nnd the iBsunnco of
tho report asked for will get tho In
formation beforo tho mining- public
with the authority buck ot It, not pos-i
siblo In nny other way.
American Fork canyon haa the
mountain of granite on tho 'Alpino
divide, tho southwest boundry of tho
district, where sotno of tho best cop
per In the state has been produced.
Again tho grnultc contnet is found
away. six miles to tho noithcast where,
the. dlstilct Joins the Mountain Lake,
On thin lino lies tho Alplno-Emplrcj
Mountain King. Silver Flat, Wasatch
Range, Brooklyn, Enrl-Eaglc, Olobo
Cpn., Live Yankee, Uclorophnn, Hog,
Pittsburg, Smuggler, Utah Centennial
and Mountain Lake Extensiifa. Run
ning troin southeast to where tho Min
eral l;lat Joins tho Oottonwoods on thu
Northwest, tho dlbtnncu Is about four
miles nnd a straight lino would touch
the 13ay State. Dutchman, Miller Hill,
Whirlwind, Texan, Bcdemeyor, Water
Fall. Boyd Park, Mineral Flat and oth
ers, Other properties lie to tho sldd
of these linos nnd go to make up n
district on this Hide of the mountain
or abqut 2,1 equine miles, tuo-tlilrda
ot which Is covered with valid mining
Jlnlms, showing fjuajtzlto and ore,
healing limes, and rent with numer
ous porphy dikes mid oio bearing;
fissures, Ot the over foi'ty groups
or claims,- nearly all or which are
working or -preparing to work, soon as
spilng opens, practically everyone enn
show sufficient mineralization .to jus
tify vigorous development work, and
with tho development 'work to bo done
the coming summer, will mako this
ono ot tho liveliest camps In the state.
Thq government has Issued .surveys
on Park City, Tjntic and Bingham.
Tho Altn-Ameilcan Fork district will
come n'cxt.
o
A "feller" from Missouri onco said
"show me." 'I'm not from Missouri,
but "show mo" why American Fork
can't suppoit an up-todato quality re
freshment shop llko "Joo's Place."
Wo treat you light.
mmmmmmmmmmmmmammmmm.-mmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmm
.No rAIMIUlt or lIOUSUKlflU'Clfcnii uiford to mlhs tho
FARMERS' HOl'MMT and HOl'SEKUUPHS' ,()Tl;RETtt,
lo bo held ut AMKHK'A.N, I'd UK, ITU. HSIh lo .UAHCII Ith In-
clushe. Under (ho direction of the. Agricultural College of I'lali.
(Jui'stlons of vital Importance to our local t'liudlllhns ulll he ills.
1 i
ciism'iI, nmi a most pleasant anil profitable time Is lissiiml lo all
who nwill Iheiusclu's of tho oppoi limit),
A rcglhlrallon fie of ."iOc (or men and -.le for laillo hIII he
cliarKi'd, coicrlng the full tu'ejVk course" j .
. .. , , - --
ammmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmimmmmmmmmm
COAL MINING MONEY
DEVELOPS COPPER
PROPERTY
Men From tho Coal Camps Will Do
lolop Old Porter Hoekucll Property'
on Mine Hill Local and ltallroad
Men Alio Interested.
George 11. Storrs, cx-Bhcrlfr or Utah
county und ono or thu leading figures
in tho Alplnc-Emplra Mine, lo autho
rity tor tho statement that this prop
erty Is preparing to rcsumo enrly op
erations, just us soon as tho breaking
ot winter will permit establishing n
camp for housing tho miners. Mr.
Storrs, who at present Is the general
manager for Uncle Jcsso Knight's
Coal Mining interests, states that in
all his mining experiences ho .has nev
er seen more promising Indications
for making a big mine than is con
tained within tho territory embraced
by tho holdings of his company on
what Is known as Mine Hill, the South,
west section of the American Fork
district.
The principal vein on which work
will be prosecuted Is a contact be
tween the lime and granite. Way back
In tho early seventies Porter Rockwell,
ono of the state's early characters,
owned the property, and it is said that
lie shipped some of the rich copper oro
out on burros. Later Eph. Nash and
associates worked It and then leased
It to thb Pacific company, who spent
about $1,000 before taking over the
Blue Rock, now the most famous mine
in tho canyon. Later William Duns
den did some work, and thrco years
ago Theodore Nlcholcs took It over
and recently organized tho Alpino
Empire company of which A. E. Gib
son, superintendent of the Spring
Canyon Coal mine, la president.
Other officials besides Messrs. Storrs
and Nlcholcs nre'. W. H. Leo, Travel
ing Freight and Passenger Agent, of
!iiMk2?Rfli&gte I
a rallroaujimn ,froinl$jIwnh(I -joS
eph Duuklcy, a local merchant.
George H. Storrs will bo managing
director with Theo. Nlcholcs probably
directly In chnrgo of tho work. The
tunnel In now In nearly 400 feet and
will be continued whllo another bunch
ot miners will be put to work run
ning a deeper ono further down the
hill. Some of tho oro assays 35 per
cent copper and $27 In gold. It Is
thought thut with greater depth or
getting further into the hill this grade
may be obtained .In shipping quanlttcn.
The Deer Creek Mining company's
property lies to the southeast and the
Silver Flat claims adjoins on the
northeast. A spring flowing down the
hill to tho west will coat a uisty can
green in a few days time, and Is
thought to have Its boh ice in the lime
pranlto contact.
o
EARL-EAGLE WILL
USE POWER DRILLS
Charles Saboy, Dell Yateu and C.
L. Gil bull camu down from tho Earl
Eagla property early In tho week and
icport making steady progress push
ing tho tunnel Into tho big tlHaure
thut out-crops tho top of tho hill. For
tho last forty feot, tho llino him been
heavily Impicgnatcd with lion, und
tho faco of tho tunnel Is Just entering
a bhalo foimntlon back or which the
Wyoming riBBUro should bo encount
ered. Mnnugor C. W. Earl Is qultn Im
patlout with tho slow progress being
mado, but snys that power drills will
bo Installed soon ns tho melting snows
mako It convenient to get tho neces
sary machinery up to tho propcity
Ho Intends using a crude oil engine
unless tho power company extends
Its lino over to tho Eurl-Eaglo tcr
lltory. Tho company Is In good fi
nancial condition for rapid develop
ment, soon as the new machinery I
Installed.
Earl-Eagle stock has bpen very ac
tivo tho past week, nicr 14,000 shares
havo been traded in on tho Suit Lake
Stock Exchange at prices In tho neigh
borhood ot 20 cents per share.
NOTICE
TO Till; OLD STOCKllOI.DL'ltS
Tito Osborn group or mines In Amer
ican Fork canyon will bo lo-lnstated
it reincorporated, Theio has been
ome money udwineed on tho mines
nco the charter was cancelled which
tcy must pay and I think thoy will,
hen they have had tlmo to Und out
hat the propcity Is. S, OSBOIlN.
American Fork, Utah,
February 21, 1016. 26-2 t-p.
KoiSEmjpnextI 1
WEEK I
I The Word I
re have rounded up our Merchandise and I
marked our goods on a cash basis. J
We will sell you Saturday and all next week I
J.mh. Box Sorin Cruckors, Crisp ami Fresh Just in for 30c Box M
JftT 'J10 boh(l Lonio"s fo'Hli stock for 20c Doz. '
JjTull Salmon, lib Cans pur can I0o fl
ligCniw Corn 25c, .' Cans Peas 25c, a largo Soo Milk 25c, II Cans Toinutoes 25c.' ' ' f
qplucn Kod and Albers Umh, 2 packages for 55c W
Collar Pads 35c
T Spring Suits and Jackets for Ladies M
l and Misses M
.i(0Suit-$12.50 Suit $15.00-19.1)5 Blacks, Blues, White and all the New Shades. H
gtfmg Jackets for the High School Girl and her Mother $51)5, $8.50 and $(.).90.
m Ladies' and Girls' New Spring Shoes I
I, $2.1)1), $3.49, $3.99. If you want chenper'uality goods that Homo of our compoti- H
t carry we have tlni at less prices. llEMtyMBEIMVti SELL FOft CASH BUT
O REMEMBER THE SAVING TO YO U.
American Fork I
DUTCHMAN LEASERS
fiESUMEJPERAIIONS
Ned Wild, Tim Smith nnd Lcnnlc
Wild, wlio arc operating the leaso on
tho Wild Dutchman, utter being In
town tor n month, returned to tho
property enrly In tho week, to resumo
work on this old time bonanza. Thoy
recently shipped a car ot fine silver
lead oro, and will continue extracting
ore lor another shipment. Tho Wild
Dutchman In Its day has produced
ucaily ono million dollars. The work
ings uro all near tho surface. It Is
probablo that the oro will bo sought
at greater depth this summer. Some
think that tho Pacific fissure will pass
through the Dutchman ground and
that a deep tunnel will prove It.
GOOD JOSIING
If all the towns in Utah county were
i) got busy and do, a llttlo united
ork along publicity lines they could
;et results. Following Is a copy of
t card being sent out fiom l'roo
A TOAST
"Hero's to Utah county Hleh In re-
ourco; beautiful environed, nnd the
homo of FORTY THOUSAND happy
and contented people Let's work tor
her, "boost" for her and mako or her
tho one spot In ALL Utah or which to
be Justly proud.
Tho Industrial Commltteo
Provo Comcrcial Club."
DEATH'S.HARVEST 1
I'liiirral of (leant ler Held In Amerl.
can 1'ork.
Tho remains ot Oeorge Oler or Shel
ley, Ida., were brought here tor tiuilnl
Thursday morning, and the funeral
as hold at 2 o'olock In tho Third
Ward Chapel, Bishop John R, Hludlcj
('inducting the services. The Third
Ward choir sa;ig several beautiful
hymns, and other appropriate selec
tions were rendered. The speakcrb
-poko words ofcomfoVt nd cheer to
the family, anil or praise for lib dr
eased,
fienrge Oler was horn In I'ennsyl
Miln, slxty-elght years ago, coming
I'tuh when a small boy He madr
t o trips across tho plalnB with ox
teams for emigrants. His homo wau
made for several yearn with tho Alott
and tho Washburn Chlpmnn families.
Lalor, he married Mary Squires, and
from this union thirteen children were
born, ten of whom survive. Sirs. Oler
died In 1891, and a llttlo over one year
ago Roy Oler, ono ot tho younger
children, was killed by lightening.
Those who survlvo the father aiej
Geo. and John of Sterling Cauadn, Will
lam, James, Albert, Oscnr, Joseph,
Mrs. John K. Kelly, Mrs. Margaret
Williams and Mrs. Pearl Lawrence of
Shelley, Idaho.
Ger.ii, the baby daughter of Mr. and
Mrs. 13. W. Elton or Mammcth, and
grand daughter of Mr. and Mns. Niels
Nelson of this city, wuh brought hero
Monday from Mammoth for burial. H
Those from out of town who attend- jH
od tho funeral wcro: Mrs. W. C. El- 'H
ton, MIsh Suslo Elton, Messrs. Earl jH
and Ucorgo Elton und Mrs. Virgin jH
Stewart of Mammoth, Mrs. J. C. Kirk- iH
cudnit of Ulnghnm and Mrs. Jacob
Evans ot Provo. Kl
"" IH
Word hns been received her by Jo- Hl
seph W. Ovarii or tho death at linker gl
City, Oregon, ot his daughter-in-law, Pl
Mrs. Qcoign Ovard, from blood poison- fil
lug. Tho Illness followed tho birth of ll
n baby girl, who Is doing nicely. Mrs. jl
Ovaid was thirty-two years old and a fl
uatlvo of Vineyard. She Is survived
by her husband and five children. tH
t Public y- I
t Service p?5 S
Line 1 I m
J MORE THAN 100 RE- j 'mr W$
J LIABLE TOILET AR- -H Jg? K
TIOLES AND REM- K Wm$
EDIALS. T- llil
This famous lino of ie- HR
pcndablo toilet articles una yf'fk. rfrfTffifcf rnxMi
rcmcdlulB can fiom now on 'y'vJW7?Wr v .. HC
bo Becured from us, with S w'mMMyV '1
the absolute guaranten orl ' ffff MS '11
, money refunded If not per-1 x S ' iBH
feeMy satlHfaclory. Yoii Ir H
should Investigate thiu acr- 'lls Jl
vlco at once, jr H
Briggs Pharmacy Co. H
.,. , V
