TH**:4WfyGpr
&wne NewgDaflr.
For Many Towns
VOLUME FOBTY-WO,
Qi
GERMANS TAKE
t°,aIS.SiMoil^
"building, declared that the battle
Crippled For All Time Because of Sacrifices-^-May
m-*
Be Turning Point'of Long Struggle.
Berlin, via Londoit, Feb. 26.—It ts^of
cially announced that Fort Douaumont
on© of tie fortifications of Verdun, was
taken by storm yesterday afternoon
and Is now firmly held by the Ger
mans.'
The official announcement as fol-
li. "The armored fort Douaumont, the
northeastern corner'pillar of the per
manent main line fortifications of the
stronghold of Verdun, was stormed
yesterday afterngpn by the Twenty
fourth regiment o£ Bra»denbur^ infan
try and la now firmly in German
hafifis." 4
Jt was announced by the German
war-office today that the capture' of
the village of Champ Neuvllle, in the
Verdun sector, reported yesterday, was*
based on erroneous information. .,
One ef Cluster of Seven.
Fort Douaumont lies four miles
northeast of Verdun. It is one of near
ly a score of forts circling Verdun and
Is situated Just to the north of the
railroad running east from the city of
Met*.
Douaumont la one of a cluster of
j«v«n forts protecting Verdun from the
east.
The conquest of this fort was made
by theirjg^t wing of the huge attack
ing. army, which has scored the great?
est advance ,ln the assault tn the
Rrench positions. It is somewhat to
the eaat-of Whathltherto has
ol'tawgirnt
of the^ Geriqai^ attack was toeing ex
erted southward along the Meiise.
Impertant Aohievetneat.
The capture -of Douaumont is the
?,?l£osi'fiiiiJ»ftaht
Inauguration
achievement since the
ai
the- German drive at
Verdun. The war office has expressed
-confidence that notwithstanding the
admitted great strength of the German
drive, Verdun and its protecting fort
resses would be able to hold out. These
positions form what has been regarded
as one of the greatest strongholds' of
Europe.
Emperor William Present.
An ofticial statement issued^ today
says thtft considerable advances have
le*eh made 'east of the Meuse In the
zegion north of Verdun, in the presence
3f .Emperor* WUUam.
i*he war office also announced the
capture ot*hills north of Louvemont
and the fortified positions to the east
thereof.
Resistance of the French broke down'
|&''Oife,the Woevre plain along the entire
front to 3f arpljoville, south of the high
§&'£• from Paris to Metz.
l^P§'V4
Important Gain Made By: Teutons in Efforts to Hammer Way
to French Capital ?v
'A
V^l I
(KIT SIGH IF HEN IT FORI
^ne of Group of Seven Defensive Works Captured in
Assault by Infantry—Battle Now Raging For
Possession of Adjacent Forts of Momentous Im
portance—Paris Reports Declare Succeeding At
tacks Have Been Repulsed—London Believes Ger.
man Effort Will Fail and That Army Will Be
dun. The attack in the Champagne on
Feb. 12, which was conducted -in three
successive waves, failed chiefly be
cause of the change of windr the Petit
Parisien says, tendering ineffective a
large quantity of asphyxiating gas and
"flame throwers which were relied upon
for the success of the attack.
THINKS ALLIE8 WILL BENEFIT.
The latest detailed information
showed the French holding two andj
a half miles beyond Douaumont, with}
this powerful fortress and its. field
works giving steady support.
The Pall Mall Gazette says the
French are sustaining an assault
equaling in intensity the hottest en
gagements of thft, entire war.
The Westminster Gazette expresses
confidence that the main fortress is
impregnable, it s^ys the principal re
SUlt of tfcie German attack will Je great
losses, which yiU cripple the* Ger-
iwnat toj man, lateropeiwtions.
been th«| The German.armv is.-kno«(n to toye.
up "Turndreas of jSfteen Inch'
and sevitUMttinch Austrian mortars,
with all the heavy .artillery used in the
Serbian campaign, and1 paxt of that for
merlj-. eftiployed on the Russian front
for the bomhardmest of Verdun.
Qerrnans Lest 150 CCC Alien?
The losses on bot sides have been
terrific. Estimates given by an official
source In Paris places thev casualties
suffered by' the Germans as --high as
150,000.
The Germans, massed on an 'eight
mile front, are attempting to drive for-
It Is the strongest fortress of ward under the concentrated fire 0" at
France and is of great importance, as least three French forts, and thousands,
it offers difect communication to Paris,
0frfield
are pursuing .the retreating
tt»e- statement say's.
,'Getn. al One Point.
^The French forces in the Champagr\e
haye made- an attack on the German
The German attacks in the region of
[x Donpuniont, east of the Meuse. has
,the, war office said notwith^
I' attacks and Jtrer
8 mwrifow'rtaughter.
The Petit Rtrlslen say« thtrt^^the
battl« -Bolt- raging before Terdu«: waa
1 preceded on Prt. 12 by a feint "in
intended to divert attend
guns and rapid flrers.
1B0 miles the west. I Berlin dobs not estimate the -lumber
Verclun marks the northerly points!
0(
fallen. The official report says:
ojt the great French defenses against "The sanisuinavy losses of the enemy
direst attack from German territory, jwfere extraordinary while our losses'
tl|e most southerly being Belfort, as
between these two points' lies the
stretch of frontier On which Germany
touches France. France has othfer
were
normal."
lYancls' Lloyd, general officer 'com^ FreAchfortressbut itofters direct com
in munication with Paris and has been a
manding the London district, in a ..
speech at the opening of the military
fore Verdun was of momentous impor- consider thatit is now likely that V_e»
tance to Great Britain as well as to,£u»
tight Itf now going on for a passage to
Opens Way to Paris.
?n*the
A dispatch from London of yester-H .... •. ,,
ra~„
a
be- e^hteen
b.-.'the
But if our' allies' line is plerbed the
•wAy will be open to the French capital
MaJ^Gen6 Sir
*iV»
5^v
...
Is 1
British Press Believes Germany
Crippling Herself at Verdun.
London, Feb., 26.—The only word
concerning the German claim to taking
the armored fortress of Douaumont.
outside of Verdun, come thru German I
sources. Further information is
awaited anxiously owing to the
strategic^ importance of this tort,
which is*1 the base-of solid field works!
on a^ilne of hills 1,000 feet high, abfrut
six miles northeast of Verdun.
Most Bloody Assault
of War Predicted as
.• :'r Due Near Verdun
Paris, Feb. 26.—"Serious but not
disquieting," is the common phrase
used teday in official circles, re
garding the progress of the Ger
mans against Verdun.
Unaffected by the snowstorm the
German* hammered away ail day
'Friday at the French line, Which
unbroken' at the end of. the sixth
day. of battle, was again rectified
as a measure of prudenee, the left
wing being drawn in K# Champ
The "importance.of the gre,at battles |an^ "le locomotive, bagg'ige car and
now raging, as viewed by the Germans, ifour coaches were wrecked. Nine per
sons were killed and "more than fifty
injured,
-i
fol,owln*
dispatch from
"Verdun is not alone the strongsst
the 0
^months. Military observers
s°on
wln
France. The German line of communication
•Do yeaj^ealize." he said, "that a1
nort
pr®vef-_
Parte? The result will hang In the bal- I. French are finally forced to
artce until the Teuton is driven hack,' abandon Verdun, the' salient held by
\b I -have great confidence he\wiU
bo menaced, on al ^.
Verdun has been greatly Un­
Germans at St. MihTel- will serve
the
purpose for which it has been held
since
early
in
and If that capital Is reached a new terrible flank attacks can be directed
comptexion would be put on the whole against the retiring troops.
face of the war. A German success
on theFrench front would not merely
mean the loss of Paris but would ea
dangejvLondon."
t.
the war. From there
British Admit Grave Peril.
British officials do not attempt
minimize the peril to, the, allied cause
officer commanding" the -London dis-
trict, in a speech today at the opening
of a military building at Wimbledon,
said:
"Do you realize that a fight is now
going
lon
positions south of St. Marie-a-Py. a*he 1 buke lo those Britons who, he de
war office statement today says 'the
French penetrated the first German
trenches over, a distance of about 250
yards.
QBKMAN4 SAORIFIOING WEN 4
Attacks So
Reports Rspeaterf
(far Have bailed.
for a passage to Paris The
result will hang- in the balance until
the Teuton is driven back, as I have
great confidence he will be:
IBut if once dur allies' line is pierced
thej, way will be open to the- French
capital, and lf^lhat cdpltal is reached
a new complexion would .be put on the
whole face of the war and. on our lives
and being. A Gernian success on th®
French front not1-mftirely mean" the loss
of. Paris but would endanger London.",
General Lloyd administered a re­
clared, had. acquired the habit of fault
finding with aiitf criticizing the work
of their leaders.
DURAZZO EVACUATED.
wt-....
Italians Compelled te Abandon Aiban
ian City.
•Rome, via Paris, Feb. 26.—The report
are!that Durazzo, an Atbanion port on the
.^arts, Feb. 26.—The--Germans
continuing their violent attacks north (Adriatic sea, had bran evacuated py
of Verdun without regard to tlieir sac- {Italian troops stationed there is con
^.tflces, the war,, off ice announced this
%. this afternoon.
Armed.
Fall predicted.'
Berlin, vla LondSn^ Feb. 26.—Reports
from Austrian press headquarters pre
diet the/.early fali of 'the Albanian city
of Duraaxo as a i*«u)t _of the defi
on WedftedkUur of the l^ilian j»nd
defenees* for^he dty^ have beea
struoted4urt.1^ i«4#teatte» Wet*
the coming Attack on Ver- ^lritad jnsi(|Hhnns -WS'. dttere
Neuville, and the right wing being
brought back a little-"south of
Ornes. The new front, barely three
miles in length, extends- along1 the
heights offering every advantage
for defense and forming a' most
formidable defense for Verdun.
It is in this narrow space that
the crown prince is hurling masses.
Military observers express the be
lief that the counter offensive will
be launched from this jine. at a
precise and decisive moment^ and
that will drive back across the
ground, already covered with the
dead bodies of their comrades, the
Germans in this assault, in the
most blood Iy assault yet- seen.
"The work up there is hot," said
an officer just arrived 'from' Ver
dun. "They are gnawing at our
lines a little faster but with .no
positive advantage for themselves.
Previous'attacks made'by the Ger
mans are nothing to whut they are
now delivering. I can say that we
are holding Well against their
formidable attacks. The artillery
exchanges are .intense. Our bat
teries, admirably handled, have
changed ground in masterly style,
and trie losses tfr' the enemy are
really fabulous. Ours ape slight, a
feeble percentage of theirs."
The Austrlans and Germans at
tacked at daybreak. The defenders aoori
Were ejected from their positions at
Batat Sjak. Shortly after the'Italians
on the southern bank of the Amen
were forced to abandon their position.
The Austrian* crossed the river and
proceeded southward.,'
Basir i^ak drovej't^^'-rtalians.^frcnj^
strong positions. The same "fate was
suffered by the defenders of Satho
Blanco, six milese east of Durazzo. By
^evening the entire oyter'girdle off "de
fense was taken. The attackers- ad
yancing to 'their inner line positions,
established the fact that tfie Italians
were embarking their troops hurriedly.
Turks Forced to Retreat.
London. Feb. 26.—The Amsterdam
correspondent ofD.ftjeCentral News
learns that heavy "fighting has taken
place ten miles from Bitlls between
Russian and Turkish troops, the former positive
tho way of
obliged to retire before superior forces, suiting her allies.
Military Train Wrecked.
Corfona^ Italy, via Paris, Feb. 26.—A
military train was derailed here toda}
picked up, two died.
-ui-1 «ep»»te Peace, what 'their- ^Je^Tw«» I
in
cessions and trade opportunities.
»«,ru
CongrA to. Await Furthei
Dere)0|ment8 in Sub
•eiControver^y.
NEXT MOVE TO COME
FROM GERMANX
Overwhilmfng Majorities in^Senate and
House Detemntned That No Action
Shall Be Taken That Might Em
barrass Administration at This Time
Two British 8teamers Sunk.
London. Feb. 26.—Lloyds announces
the sinking of the British steamer Permitted under international law as
Denaby, of 2,987 tons, and-the steamer defensive had become offensive with
Tummel, of 531 tons. the advance of the submarine.
Seven members of the crews UntiUthre -question is raised Mr. Lan
missing. Of five survivors who were ping regards it as .premature to an-
I
'Y*
Asks Explanation of Agreement/
London,
U:
STRANGE AIRSIflP
ALARMS SUPERIOR
f^irelee Above Docks and Elevators
Containing Millions of Bushels of
Wheat Fer the Allies—^Disappears in
Direction of Sit
eel Plant.
Superior, Wis., Feb. 2K—Watchmen
guarding, big grain elevators.- cphtain
Ir.o ISllHottS of bushels nf'whwif f«i» fljs
allies, were alarmed early today when
an aeroplane, sohrlng 3,(W. feet in 'the
air, circled above the for1 Half
an hour. The machine was observed
just before dawn. When It- beeiune
light it disappeared in the direction'of
the new plant of the Minnesota Steel
Company,
An aeroplane recently' was ^sighted
hear the Du i^ont powder pl&nt at
Washburn.
2X
'iV
FOUND GUILTY OF MURDER.'
Ninety-Ninii Vaara
posed on Convioted, Negrcwe.
Danville, HI., Feb. 2«.—
Murphy and Milton Armstrong, n^grqes.
were found guilty of muraer bv a J&ry
here today and sentenced to 'tpe nepl
tentiary for ninety-nine $*irir eicj for
lering two Greek" ti
hy an^ Armstrong set up An
claiming they werf rohjbing^a
In Ctaa.!nDalga at the tioM tke
Washington, Feb. ^6.—The question
of congressional action warntng Am
ericans off afmed ships continued in
abeyance todfej^, pending further de
velopments ilir the sidnmolne contro-!
versy. ...
With PresMeut WAsoa^backed by
his entire cabinet. stEll ^nnihaken in
his position that thette should be no
abridgment ofi ttie eights df Americans
on the htgliP'jMas, orerwhelming ma-
Si(^ities
—-State ^Department Quietly Awaits injured eye may be preserved.^
[The'Italian poet Gabriele d'Annun
Reply 'Fiwi* Berlin to Latest Request.
in tlw^ouse scnd senate *ppar-
efltty were determined that no action
should be taketr that might embarrass
the government.
The state department today still is
awaiting a response from Germany to,
its request for assurances ihat the an
nouncement of the intention to sink
armed shfps would not affect previous
pledges.
It had been rumored that the central
powers would -postpone inauguration nrkDrrVir1AT 1?YPT live
of their rtew policy from Feb. 29 until! rUKlUllALi JiArLiAlilO
.. w.,«W..nj
With the apparent quieting down of .-'"'
the situation In congress the subma-!
rine
jprisls -shifts'biijok^ to the negotia- Government's Action
tlons betweea fi^tfr^'tary .Lansing and
Count yon Biemstorff. ..
Mr. lAuslnHNsald toda!Jr ^'iliere was
no inteniton of" transferring the nego
tiations. to Bortln. to be conducted by
Ambassador* Oferard and the Berlin
foreign-trtflce, *i^was intimated in
j&a-
patches pubEKMlfed absMSlt..
state dsfprtaMMt had
more fWanrGeiBOiajiy on Hatiiyj^ifcahifut,
j,"
ataew campaign* wtitrtd wjit.
b^ cattducted in violation^f reassur
aiices, tK^^Anudcank.
would...vbe
MmMtA'-.
-pro-,
a to
yf
tected.
^heff sltuatl^^te 'cangress appar
e«|ly t?§fnr^rd itr cHcecK^a^^s%
itf '"r
lent
fratijm leMers, whlTe
aott rfemalnsifirm ip his *t(Merniinatlon wfidch tile requisitioned German and
td' lns6t.on 4he r^tht of Americans to 'Austrian yeSsels would be put, said
on/ships Armed' for
1
travel' on ships Armed' for defense .1 that the government's action in requi
solely. sitioning them "had been prompted by
American Suggestion Not Rejected, 'necessity of thc nation's economic sit-
1
The Issue is tsoanpUcated by the at- damaged.
fense.
Germany contends- that armament
nounce the position of the state de
partment.
Feb. 26.—Philip Snowden, flay to the request for the disarma- performed in order to adopt these ves
socialist member of the house of com-i naent of the merchant vessels. gels for the transport and other pur
mons for Blackburn, has^giveij notice The impression prevailed that it was poses for which they have been requi
that he intends to ask Premier Asqulth not. Great Britain hut probably France sitloned. ,.
on Tuesday whether the: British-gov-j or. Ita^y. It is distinctly given to be understood
ernment ascertained from all the al- j" Altho Secretary Lansing declined tc that the vessels have not been con
lies of this nation before,, the conclu- tell the name of the replying power, it. fiscated. The second decree appoints
jsion of the agreement not to ixtake.al' later, was learned that it^was Italy and a committee to supervise the execu
the
the war and what they expected An rather than conclusive. It was point- Portygruefia newspapers say that In
««®r»n*ees. territorial con- ed out that ItgHan 'liners give plederes other ports of the republic .there are
Good,
Pomyt»of
MARSHALLTOWN, IOWA, SATtRDAY, FEBRUARY 26,1916. NUMBER 49
PETROLITE TAKEN FOR ENEMY.
Austria Explains Submarine Command
er's Reason For Attacking Tanker.
Washington, F?b. 26.—Austria, sup
plementing her reply to the American
request for more information concern
1 Ing the attack on the American tank
steamer Petrolite, has informed the 5:50.
Secretary Lansing said today that
Austria's communication wa^ .not a re
ply to ,the American protest.
All the facts available to the state
department have been sent to:Vienna.
ITALIAN POET INJURED.
Gabriele d'Annunzio, Hurt in Aeroplane
Mishap, May Lose Eye.
Paris, Feb. 26.—Gabriel d'Annunzio
has been injured in the right eye in
an aeroplane accident and taken to a,
hospital in Venice, says the Rome cor
respondent ot tho Peitlt Parisien. There
iis a possibility that the sight of the
zlo took a prolilinent part
laration of war by Italy against Aus
tria, in 'May, "19-15. He volunteered for
service and wais appointed lieutenant
in this army.]
OPERATION KILLS BRIDE.
.7-
Young Husband Admits Illegally Use:
of Knife Three Times.
Chicago, Feb, 26.—To save his bride
and himself from gossip, Dr. Lester
Long, a youngf physician, performed
three Illegal operations on his wife, the
last of which resulted in her death last
night.
This! vva§, Uie statement made to tho
police today by"Dr. Long, who is being
held pending the verdict of a coroner's
jury.
In three days. Dr. Long, said, he per- 1
•formed three such operations with the,
consent of hi® Wide. Blood poisoning
resulted-.
SEIZURE OF SHIPS
Prompted
coming from the direction of Mush, and| government, at least, has not rejeoted which would have caused an explosion1 packing centers of the Missouri river! Members of the conference said they
thai the Turks fought bravely but were the, American suggestions but is con- when the vessel moved. An explosion valley is hoped for by leaders of the,
was
&rmed Italian merchantment. the country that the existing treaty cities. More thorough picketing of the
May Discuss Armament Question. with Germany be denounced and al- entire stock yards district" is to be un
Tfhe United' States, Secretary Lan- lowed £0 lapse on June 5, 1917. _j dertaken.
Sing indicated today, may discuss the p. In conclusion he said: The peace conference between the
question of what constitutes proper 1 ". "We Are prepared for all eventual!- strikers and mnnagers of the plahts
armament on a merchant ship for de- ties that may arise from our exercising was in progress at noon today. It. was
oiir.rights'."
bor
One of the entente allies replied to- indicates the work of refitting to bo
reply was Argumentative «on"7fThe^woVic.indicated.
not to use their armament-except for eighty German and Austrian vessels
defense when clearing from American which, it is understood, will also be
ports. requisitioned :by the government. The
lowans Favor Warning. total tonntfge of the Teutonic ships ex
llembers of' the Indiana and Iow& ceeds 160,000 tops.
delegations were polled on this ques
tion:
"Do. you favor a warning by con
gress to Americans to keep off bellig
ereiit merchantmeil carryingt guns?" Preparirtfl For Investigation.
here at present, it ^s understood the
Action taken was in accordance with a
policy adopted by Great Britain early
in the war.
Committee Favors Army «f 137,000.
The house militaiV committee voted
today for a regular army of 137,000
men. with a 2 per cent allowance for
recruiting, bringing the number to
1(0,000 which is slightly mose.than-the
asked.
iarar department asked. The. repub- -s
llcans and three democrats carried the: rliers, removing farmers and
vota .atack.-
PREDICTS BASEBALL INQUIRY.
In. the Jowa delegation seven replied £hica&^ -26v—The federal trade
In favor of giving the warning and commission js-planning- an lnvestiga
four declined to ^bmmit themselves, tlon of, organised baseball and Its re
Following is the poll: lations to.|K^. Sherman anti-trust law,
For the resolution Republicans, according to. a statement today by
Hull. Haugen, Good, Ramseyer, Dow- James F. (GilfDOre, who arrived^, from merchant vessels,
lit A 1 A. I
Steele. Non- New
Kennedy,'
ell. Green
committal: Republicans,
Sweet, Towner, Woods.
iLaurentio Inquiry Made,
•Pursuant to instructions from Wash
ington, Ambassador Page made in
quiries concerning the removal of men
«r|w,
of the F^fleral league magnates.
OfCioe^aibf the commission ait Wash
ington, 'Aff. Gtilmore, said, has asked
the Federal League for its papers filed
in the fe^fral: wurt here last winter,
and dismissed by Judge Landls follow-
from the British converted cruisetj ing the peape pact.- Only the reor
Laurentlc oif thirty-eight Germans, -j
Austrians and Turks from the Ameri
can steamship China off 'Shanghai.
Tfte subject is still under consideration
by" the British authorities.
ganizatioh of methods of the conduct
of the game will insure avoidance! of
an investlgitjon, Mr. Gilmore declared.
Altho. the circumstances of this par
ticular case can not be ascertained Flood Victim* Ip Mississippi Said to Be
mwm
by
Ne-
cessity of Nation's Economic Need—
Requisitions Vessels to Prevent Wil- going to the scaffold praying.
A a 1 A ax 4 It a aM
ful Damage *nd Possible Destruction.
'of deputies today that an attempt had
l«ad. been found on the steamship Bue
low VCh^Juretnier added that the best
interests or1?torcngia -was. to ai»p^m»
tPM^l^th .!SeCT^5itjf*Tt
Vcp»h.
nfftfs^ ^an'^wer to- a Question by Deputy Cam
Wll- J-ft-bo, regarding the employment to
From German sources comes word uation.
thalj ^he-Teutonic governments'-'-were This had been, carried out simul
lnspi^sd to issue .their new n"otlc£ bj" taneously, he said,- in order'to fore
thehAmerlcan ctrpulai* note to-tjie al- stall, a? far as possible, attempts at! show no-sign or changing iront. ifte,
T.-R. BULLETIN.
NEWS OF THE
United States {hat her version of th« Iowa—Partly cloudy to^'jj!' and
affairs te that the submarine com
mander thought the Petrolite was an.
enemyjtti^^disgulBed under the.Amer
lcan .flag, that he fired on her as she
Changed her course and that- he be
lieved she was about to rafh Aim.
The Weather.
Sun
-rises Feb. 27 at. 6:37^/^
Sunday slightly colder ton
v--'' PAGE ONEv'J*
TelegrsphioNews:
Germans Take Ona
Eyom the -British 4turces come the explosive apparatus had been found in" meats. ... [quarters in Des Moines and wage, a®
laitive, statement that the British the. boilers of the steamship Buelow, Extension of the strike to other 1 open fight on the regular democrats.
Utude of the Italian-fgovernment arid Dr. Costa further said that he con- Omaha and Kansas City In an effort m^tee and that practically a full stat»
ffiesV presence at New Yo?^ of three' sidered it was In'the best Interests of to stir up sympathetic action in those, ticket will bef placed before the prt«
1
ir.ngj
Eight German steamers in the har- for a settlement.
URGENT APPEAL FOR HELP.in­
in' Serious Plight.
Natcheii 'Mlsai, Feb. 26.—An Urgent
appeal for help fo.r flood victims in
Cbncordlf) pAflsh.' 'declaring that men.
women aiiia' cljlldren were almost starv
ing and w"e*?* cliflging to the sides of
the -levee* ajrtL housetops^, was re
ceived today the Matches relief
coihtnlaalon.
Three ^geverament steamers are.
Working along"the Black and Tensaft
live
oy
General-News and Story:
Chaplains in Congress.
It Pays to Advertise.
In the popu-
''lar agitation which preceded the dec*
Jun Forts.
,Momentous Battle Beia -Waged,
May Determine Result of War.
Action Delayed on Warning Issue.
Democrats of low^ Spilt.
Two State Ticket's in Field.'
PAGES TWO, THREE AND FOUR.
Iowa News:
•Many Immune to Diphtheria.
Investigating Kelley.
State Buys Quarry For Convicts.
Fraud Claimed in Realty Deal.
To Organize Iowa For Good Roads.
Baby Pork Contest.
Gathered in the Byways
PAGE FIVE.
PAGE SIX.
Editorial:
Who Is the U. S. A.?
Just Farm Gumption.
The ^iartland Purpose. •.
Topics of the Times.
Iowa. Opinion and Notes.
PAGES EIGHT, NINE,TEN, ELEVEN
City News:
Sttll More Cases For March Terms,
Albion to entertain Presbytery,
Election Officials Named.
School Consolidation Fails.
Report on Red Cross Seals.
Local Comment.
General and Brief'City News.
PAGE TWELVE. ""'""'/J
Markets and Generals:
Bearish Cables Weaken Wheati
Corn Develops Strength.
Cattle Trade Steady.
Hogs at New High Levels.
OSCAR COOK EXECUTED.
Colo., For
Hanged at Canyon City,
Double Murder.
Canyon City, Colo.. Feb. 26.—Oscar
Cook was executed here this morning
for the murder of Andrew J., Lloyd and
William McPherson, in 1912, in Den
ver.
Cook made no confession or reference
to the crime, according to the wit
nesses. He remained calm to the end,
Cook apparently had been reconciled
to his fate for several days, despite ef-
Liabon, via Paris, Feb. 26.—The Por- forts of his sister, who repeated pleas
tuguese premier stated in- the chamber
^em^cernor
emen
fDr. Alfonso X'bsta, the premier,- in Differences Between Sieux City Pack
Ttenrttir OIM..1
eps and
Carlson for executive
y'
twen-made to damage seven of the rer I *••••.
qiilsittoned ships and that explosives
I STRIKE SITUATION
REMAINS UNCHANGED
ment Strike of Men in Cooling
Plants imperil Stores of Mests .-
rennrfPfl thnt thppfi wnr« InHiniiinna
reported that there were Indications
at 9t. Vincent were seized by order I M. R. Murphy, of. Omaha, general
&f the Pprtuguese government. manager of the Cudahy Packing Com
The Offipial Gazette publishes two pany plants, made the statement today
decrees regarding the thirty-six Ger- that the Cudahy and Armour packing
man and Austrian merchant vessel* companies will immediately advance
seized In. the Tagus river and placed the wages of all employes eight, per
under the "Poj*B*uese flag. The' first
cent.
Depression in New York Stook
Federal •Tride -Ce'mmiasion Said to Be brbke* 5 cents a bushel today Oh ae-
tViA final ino^Hnflf
Weather for lows:
Partly Cloudy
BUghify
IOWA FACING
w.
Two Full Tickets May Bt
Placed Before Votert
at June Primary.
PROGRESSIVE WING
PICKS CLARKSON
Leader «f pry Faroes Chosen to Lead
Opposition to Regular Slats and E. CL
Dunn 8elooted to Oppofa Wilhur W,
Marsh as National Committeeman^
Delegates at Largs to 8t- Loufs Con^
vention Named. ^1-
wm
prevented but the machinery was Sioux City strikers and It Is predicted members of the opposing faction from
that
This is much less than the in­
crease asked for by the strikers.'
It was announced some time ago
that the companies intended such'an
advance about May 1. The strikers
asked 2 cents ah hour fdr laborers and
a much larger Increase for-others.
WHEAT SUFFERS
ANOTHER BREAK
Market
Causes Wild Descent in. Price of
Grain—Values Break 5 Cents, May
Dropping to'$1.13%.
Chicago, Feb. 2G.—Wheat values
ay wheat dropped to $1.18%. as
against $.1.18% at yesterday's finish.
Breaks More Than 6 Cents.
Minneapolis, Minn., Feb. 26.—Wheat
prices broke more than 9 cents a
bushel here today following receipts of
a report that Verdun had fallen.
Spanish Minister Designs?
Madrid, via Paris, Feb. 26.—'Finance
Minister Urzalz has resigned on ac
count of differences of opinion with the
other members of'the cabinet regard
ing the financial policy of the govern
ment.
Foreign Minister Vlllanneva has as
sumed the -finance, portfolio and Count
Alvaro de "Romanones. the premieir. has
taken charge of the foreign office.
1
'r
Italian Steamer Armed.
'New Tork, Feb. "26.—The Napoil. the
third Italian steamer to arrive here
within the last few days with! guns
mounted, arrived today. The Napoil
carried two three-inch guns. 8he is a
freighter and carries no passenfers'l
i*. .•• fi |&
.ussr*:.
Des Moines, Feb. 2«—Two full demo*
cratlc state tickets in
ay be placetT be
fore Iowa voters at the June 6 primary
this year, as the reAlt of a decision
early today by leaders of so-called pro
gressive democrats to enter a slate of
their own.
After an all night meeting, lasting
until nearly daylight the conference
unanimously selected Senator John T.
Clarkson. of Albla, leader of the dry
forces in the Thirty-sixth general as*
sembly, to head the new ticket as can*
dldate for. governor la opposltloa to
the regular democratic ticket,
1
Dunn to Oppost Marsh.
Edward -G. Dunn, of Mason Ctt*
candidate for governor in 1911, waa/
selected as a candidate fW national
committeeman^ against "Wilbur* W«*
Marsh, of Waterloo.. Senator Clarkson
refused this morning to say whether
he would be a candidate.
Whether or not a full state tloket
will -be placed 'before the primacy by
the so-called progressive democrats
was not decided at the all-night meet*,
ing. -ttofsdjf- •,
Picks Delegates at Largeb I*. ^4
The conference selected candidates
for delegates at large to the national'
convention at St» Lauis, bat Iml Jiat
decided when it adjourned wlwtho^ i^
would select district dblaeaMs.
s-—
E^|oy#i iilo Nearer Se^tje-
11
...
the conference as a dulegaiii'Xi'liirge.
Homer W. Johnston, of
the conference's second ChoidB "flr.
delegate at large. He Is a brother ot
United States Senator JohnsttOn, of
South Dakota.
Sioux City, Feb. 26.—The strike in 1
the Sioux City packing houses seemed the decision as to placing a full ticket
no nearer settlement today." The 'n
strikers and managers of the plants
lied powers for,, the1 disarmament of wilful damage to shftls. which had, in strike of the men in the cooling plants So-called progressive democrats to
ships.
show no-sign of changing front. The!
fact, been made on ^even of them. An has imperiled the great stores of. day announced they would open head*
It was announced this "morning that
th*
«eld
w°u'd,^e)
^ided
repre8ented at the
Upon
later. Every district in the. state wits
conference.,'
To
Wage Open Fight.
make strenuous efforts to .unseat
emissarie.i will be sent today to membership on the state central com*
marles in opposition to the regular
democratic slate.
Four candidates for delegates at*
large to the St. Louis convention Willi
be entered by the progressives an®,
candidates will be placed in the field loL.
each district of the state. Just how*"*1
they would go about unseating oppo*.
sitlon members the conferees did noif
state.
All who attended the conference felfi--.-.._
sure today that Senator John T. Clark**
1 son, of Albia, endorsed by the confer*
ence for governor, would be a candid*
date.
NORMAN HAPGOOD TESTIFJEStf
Explaina Employment of Louis D, Bran^
deia by Colliers' Weekly,
Washington, Feb. 26.—Norman Hap*
good, former editor of Colliers' Weekly,
today told the senate Judiciary sub*
committee investigating the nomination!
of Louis D. Brandels, to the aupreme
court, that the reason Colliers' had -,
employed Mr. Brandels in the Ballin*
ger-Pinchot controversy was because
Colliers wanted to support Mr. Olaviai
whose charges against Mr. Ballinge^
It had published, and for whom
count of depression In the New York! one about the employment of Mr. Bran«
stock-market. Apparently many trad-|^eia' Hapgood said.
ers here Jumped to the conclusion that LJtZ '3
Wall street declines were caused over ^broui^h®ft^
the plans of Germany to attack armed
"Bran*
dels ostensibly appeared.
"We had published the charges and
thought Mr. Glavis should be sup
ported." said Mr. Hapgood.
No attempt was made to deceive any
Mr
WhlCh'
Brandels was an attorney.
ROSS! SS FOUND GUILTY.
Convicted on Charge of Murderous As*
sault on American Woman.
Rome, via Paris," P'eb. 26.—Pietrc
Rossi was found guilty at Arezzo. on 11
the charge of murderous assault ^1
against Mrs. Mary Flavelle, ofvChicago,
in a railroad train between' Florence
and Arezzo, on May 21, 19'4, for the '2^
purpose of robbery. He was sentenced
to eight years and four mouths lm
prisonment and to two years special
surveillance by the police and to per
petual interdiction from publlq service.
The jury found that Rossi was only
partially responsible for his action, be
ing not wholly sound of mind,*
[Mrs. Flavelle returned to the United
States foltowing the attack and died tn
Chicago, on Dec. 11, 1914.]
11
(1
A Forecast.
"Da you think w«'re going to have a
white Christmas?"
"•It looks pretty dark for me. I can't
possibly raise the money to buy my-^^
wife the furs she's set her heart on."
