.i'Y
i
LI Li R A
NON-PARTISAN
'.WLJ!I.',U1:I,UIU
Official Organ of the Building Trades Council of Cincinnati and Vicinity
Vol. III. No. 45
CINCINNATI, OHIO, FEBRUARY 26, 1916
One Dollar a Year
u
sm& m -m .
IheldDOr
MDDGaie
INDEPENDENT
SEEEEHai
ii'
The Building Trades Council
Declares In Favor of the Burnett Bill, Restricting Undesirable. Im
migration. Protest Sent To Governor Willis Against the Hiring
of Scabs On State Armories. Col. Ike Martin Requested to Use
Union Painters at Chester Park.
The meeting of the Building Trades !
Council was called to order by President
Culleit. The minutes of the previous
meeting vere read and adopted.
A communication from Bridge and
Structural Iron Workers No. -14, named
Bro. II. Robbins as a delegate to the
Council.
A similar communication from the
Sheet Metal Workers No. HI presented
Bro. C. Link as a delegate.
Both members being present, they
were duly obligated.
The following communication was re
ceived from the Ohio State Building
Trades Council and referred to tilt;
Board of Business Agents:
Cincinnati, O., February 211, l'JKi.
Dear Sir and Brother The Ohio
State Building Trades Council wishes to
call your attention to the fact that the
Brockway Plumbing and Heating Com
pany, of Huntington, W. Va is delib
erately antagonistic to organized labor.
This lirm has been doing considerable
work for the State of Ohio, particularly
on armories, and therefore, I would re
quest that you write to lion. Frank B.
Willis, Governor of Ohio, and ask him
to use his good offices toward the end
that all work done for the State of Ohio
lie given to Ohio contractors, who em
ploy union labor.
With best wishes and trusting that you
will take this matter up at once and let
me know what was done, I am,
-,. ... praternally .youniij- -.-.--Thomas
II. Muuavi.v.
Sec'y-Trcas.
Tli
following communication was re-'
ceived from the American Federation of
Labor, was read and adopted :
Washington, D. C, Feb. 10. 1!)l(i.
My Dear Secretary The Burnett im
migration bill has been favorably report
ed by the House Committee on Immigra
tion, and it will be acted upon by the
I louse of Representatives and the Senate
of the United States in the very near
future.
This legislation is intended to restrict
immigration that is being used by the
steel trust, coal trust, mine barons, the
packing industry and other cmployersof
cheap labor to prevent the organization
of their employes, so that they can keep
wages down.
The American Federation of Labor,
through its conventions, has repeatedly
declared for this legislation, and has in
structed its officers to persist in the ef
fort to secure the enactment of the Bur
nett bill. A change of four votes would
have passed the Burnett bill over the
President's veto at the last session of
Congress.
OFKIOH IllOIil' OKttAMiK.
Stenographers, HooUkeepers and
General Kinployes Form Union.
Better working conditions and the es
tablishment of an eight-hour day and a
minimum wage for Cincinnati office em
ployes is the object of the Stenogra
phers, Typists, Bookkeepers and General
Office Help Union, which formed a tem
porary organization last night in the
Dennisou Hotel by electing Edward Det
tenthaler president; Miss Mary E. Duffy,
secretary, and George Stalf, treasurer.
The organization will make application
to the American Federation of Labor
for a charter.
Frank L. Rist, District Organizer for
tin- American Federation of Labor ;
Henry Ott, State Representative, and
Tlmmas 11. Muiravm. secretary-treasurer
of the Ohio State Building Trades Coun
cil and president of the Central Labor
Council, delivered addresses. The speak
ers declared thousands of office em
ployes were working for less than living
wages, and that organization would bet
ter conditions.
Twenty-live persons joined the union,
and many applications for membership
have been received, said labor officials.
At an open meeting next Thursday night
in the Dennisou Hotel a permanent or
ganization will be formed.
WANT I UGH Kit WAG US.
Elizabeth, N. J The carpenters
ninn Ims voted to demand a wage of
$4.50 per day. The present rate is $-t.
Every power and influence known to
big business opposes the Burnett bill, be
cause restriction of immigration means
organization of their employes, follow
ed by an increase in wages and an eight
hour day.
To offset this inihience, trade unionists
must promptly notify their Senators and
Congressmen in Washington that unre
stricted immigration makes possible two
men for every job and that two men for
every job is a menace to American living '
standards. '
Do not wait for your union meeting,
but secure as many letters as is possible
from individual members and other citi-'
zens to your two Senators and your
Congressmen. Urge your two Senators I
and Congressmen to vote for the Bur
nett immigration bill, and when the bill
is passed to vote to pass it over the
President's veto, if he should again
veto it.
If your representative voted for this
legislation last Congress, let them know l
that trade unionists are more insistent I
than ever to have this legislation en-'
acted.
Send me copy of replies received from
your Senators and Congressmen.
Yours fraternally, i
Fhan'k Morkiso.v,
of Labor.
Business Agent llock read his weekly
j report, which, upon action of the Coun
TCi'l, -i"as received and filed.
The Agreement Committee reported
ilifif llinv lirwl writtiMi In fsVrri'tnrv Hess
f tilc jrcvvcrs' Hoard of Tradeasking
him to appoint a tune when they can
call and take up the matter of having
the brewers use union labor.
All trades reported business good.
The Painters' District Council request
ed that the Building Trades lend their
good offices in having Colonel Martin, of
Chester Park, use union painters, and
that a member of the Painters' District
Council be put in charge of tile work.
The request was granted.
Under the head of good and welfare,
Frank McMullen, Chicago, general or
ganizer for the Bridge and Structural
Iron Workers' Union, spoke on condi
tions throughout the country with refer
ence to work in the building trades line.
He told the delegates that work in the
building trades industry was improving
rapidly, and men were in demand in Chi
cago. McMullen is in the city seeking
iron workers for employment in Chicago,
There being no further business, the
meeting adjourned until next 1 hursday
night.
SIGNS I'HOIIIIUTKI).
Cincinnati. Judge Nippert, of the
Common Pleas Court, has restrained
members of the Butchers' Union from
carrying a sign in front of shops that
patronize a packing company against
which the unionists are striking.
While the honorable court did not use
the terms "unconstitutionality" and "con
fiscatory," he approached these hackney
ed phrases in his declaration that the
union's methods are "thoroughly un
American and contrary to the spirit of
our Constitution and mil of rights."
WIN VWV.V. TKXT HOOKS FIGHT.
Nashville, Tcnn. The trade-union
movement has won its light tor tne con-
t iniinii-e of the free text-DooK system
which has been in force during the past
several years. By a close vote the Board
of Education adopted a resolution re
questing the City Commissioners to set
aside sufficient money to supply all chil
dren in the grammar grades.
WAIST '.WAKIOKS WIN.
Boston. As a result of a strike, sev
eral thousand waist makers, affiliated
to the International Ladies' Garment
Workers' Union, have secured union
recognition, wage increases of from .1
to 20 per cent, and a reduction of work
ing hours from fifty-four to forty-nine
per week". 1 he union nas increased us
membership by about 1,000,
AN
make no mis
Dugan as as
in the conduct
The Park Board
take in appointing Jt
sistant to Mr. Rensha
lolin Diignii.
of the Amateur Baseball League. Dugan
is an expert on outdoor sports. He is
clean, honest and enjoys the confidence
of the community.
BILL DRAWN TO HAVE
STATE PAY SICK WORKMEN
A workman's health insurance bill, un
der which workmen would receive two
thirds of their wages from the State
while they are ill will be introduced in
the next Legislature it was announced in
Cincinnati Thursday by Dr. E. R. I lay
hurst. Director of the Division of In
dustrial Hygiene of the State Board of
Health.
'file Cincinnati Antituberculosis Lea
gue launched a campaign for siich in
surance Wednesday.
'file bill will provide for insuring the
health of men and women who work
with their hands and earn $1,21)1) a year
or less.
Two-fifths of the premium will be
lnmi ,y t1(. workman, two-fifths bythe
employer and one-fifth by the State. The
insurance will be coiupuls ry.
SO Cents Kuril -Month.
Thus, a man who earns $000 a year
would pay SO cents a month ; his em
ployer, 80 cents a month, and the State,
-10 cents a month.
It has been figured out that under
present conditions four per cent of a
workman's wages goes for doctor and
medicine bills.
Insured workmen would receive these
benefits :
After be has been ill a week, he would
receive two-thirds of his wages for each
additional day or week or month of sick
ness. While he is sick, whether for a day
or more, he would be given free medical
attention.
Funeral Money Provided.
If he dies the State would give his
family $"o for the funeral.
His wife would be given free medical
care two weeks before and six weeks
after maternity. This is in line with the
better babies movement.
A wage-earner receiving $0 or less per
week would pay nothing for his insur
ance. KVUNITrKH IMJIVHKS WIX.
St. Louis, Mo The Furniture Driv
ers' Union has signed a three-years
agreement with employers. Wages arc
raised $1 a week with time and one
half for overtime after the first hour
of overtime. The new scale means a
yearly addition of $10,000 to these
workers.
A GOO.
siP-isM'i ink HH) '
Chief of Mirers Greeted With Cheers
By Operators at Wage Conference
Demands of Diggers Are Being Considered. Satisfactory
Wage Scale May Be Agreed Upon. Joint Sub -Committee
Is Named To Work Out Pay Scheme. Report
To Be Filed Next Week.
New York. Anthracite operators and
miners, representing )i.,000 workers, (
met in joint conference here, February I
21 to arange a new agreement to replace1
the one that expires March :il. The ten
demands presented by the officers of the l
United Mine Workers were referred to
a joint subcommittee with instructions
to work out, if possible, a satisfactory '
wage scale and report to the full con
ference The subcommittee immediately went
into session, organized and adjourned to'
meet here at 1 p. m., Feb. 28. Thus,
for the first time in the history of the '
joint hard-coal wage conferences, the)
demands of the Miners' Union were not
promptly rejected when formally pre
sented. The mine workers were received cor-1
dially hj the coal operators, and the best
of feeling prevailed during the joint con
ference. n unprecedented incident was
the applauding of John W. White, Inter-
national President of the United Mine
Workers, by some of the operators when !
he concluded a fervid speech in present
ing the demands of the men.
.Miners Are I'leused.
I he representatives of the miners ex-'
pressed themselves as pleased with the '
attitude of the operators, and said they
found nothing m the joint conference
to lead them to believe that an amicable
! settlement would not be reached. A
speech by S. D. Warriner. Philadelphia,
I President (if 'the' Lehigh Ga1antrXaVi
gation Company, replying to the miners'
i addresses was termed conciliatory by
i the union officers and made a good im
pression on them, the miner.-, said.
Thirty-seven operators and thirty rep
resentatives of the mine workers were
in the joint conference. Alvan Markle.
Ilazleton, Pa., was selected chairman ot
the meeting, and James A. Gorman, also
of Ilazleton. Secretary of the Anthra
cite Conciliation Board, was made Secre
tary. President White, in formally present
ing the demands formulated by the
miners at Wilkesbarre. Pa., last Septem
ber, and ratified by the recent conven
tion of the United Mine Workers at In
dianapolis, made a general statement jus
tifying the 20 per cent increase in wages
asked for on the ground that business
was prosperous.
Where There's Prosperity.
Values of all kinds had gone up. Mr.
White said. He called attention to the
fact that the United States Steel Cor
poration had increased the wages of em
ployes, and also noted that in some of
IUVOKS KIGHT-IIOUIl DAY.
New York. At an eight-hour agita
tion meeting, held under the auspices of
the Labor Forum, the following tele
gram was received from Gand Presi
dent Garretson, of the Order of Rai
il-1
way Conductors :
"The demand for an eight-hour day is
not only ethically but biologically and
socially well founded, and in connection
with the movement of trains, is the basic
element of the widelv heralded motto,
'safety first.' Interstate Commerce Com
mission statistics show for year ended
June HO, 201. X12 cases where sixteen
hours' service were exceeded by train
and engine men. Each case involves live
men, which means that more than one
half million men were required to cx
reed sixteen hours' arduous duty in that
year. Five thousand were on duty tweu-ly-sevcn
hours, and eight hundred were
on duty sixty-live hours or more. The
public has a. vital interest in this phase
of safty first.'"
KIGHT HOl'ltS IN SHIP YAKDS.
Philadelphia. President O' Council,
of the A. F. of L., Metal Trades De
partment, addressed a mass meeting of
ship yard workers in this city last Satur
day. This is the initial agitation in a
campaign for eight hours in the Atlantic
coast ship yards. All metal trades and
other interested unions, together with
the A. F. of L., will assign representa
tives to assist in creating a shorter work
day sentiment.
the soft coal and coke regions employers
had raised wage rates.
Other speakers were: Thomas Ken
nedy, President of the Lehigh Valley
region miners ; John T. Dempsey, Scran
ton, President of the Wyoming fields :
James Matthews, Shenandoah, head of
the miners' organization in the Schuyl
kill region; J. F. Hollister, Shamokin.
district board member from the Schuyl
kill fields ; C. C. Bonner, an Interna
tional Organizer for the Hazel ton dis
trict, and Mr. Warriner.
District Presidents Dempsey and Ken
nedy, members of the Conciliation Board,
spoke on all the demands, hut went into
much detail on the one that calls for a
"more simplified, speedy and satisfactory
method of adjusting grievances," which
virtually would abolish the Conciliation
Board. They said the methods of the
board, which was created by the Anthra
cite Coal Strike Commission in 190:i, fol
lowing the great strike of 1002, were an
tiquated, low and expensive.
Mr. Warriner, replving to the workers.
said :
Operators Are Willing.
"We are willing to look at the de
! mauds in every possible light. We are
, willing to go beyond this and give con-
tions of labor and rates of pay. We are
i willing to go beyond this and give con
' sidcration to all questions that will give
I opportunity for the social and physical
! betterment of the men.
1 ."In doing-all. this,. h.owevcr..the.jppera
Uors must be alive to their own business
j conditions and must also have regard for
their responsibility to the public. Every
element oi me ueuiuuus win ituc mt
fullest consideration."
A resolution was adopted referring the
demands to a subcommittee of four min
ers and four operators. The operators
selected as their representatives Mr.
Warriner, W. L. Council, Scrantan, rep
resenting so-called independent opera
tors: W. J. Richards. Pottsville. Pa..
I President of the Philadelphia and Read
ing Coal and Iron Company, and Morris
! Williams, Philadelphia, President of the
i Susquehanna Coal Company, a subsidi
1 ary of the Pennsylvania. Messrs. Cou
ncil, Richards and Warriner are the op
erators' representatives on the Concilia
tion Board.
The subcommittee of the miners is
composed of President White and Dis
trict Presidents Dempsey, Kennedy and
Matthews. Alvan Markle was named as
Chairman and James A. Gorman as Sec
retary, but neither has a vote in the sub
committee. The first session of the joint
subcommittee will be held Feb. 2S.
THK DIKFKKKNCi:.
Denver. In the Industrial Bulletin,
published by the Colorado Fuel and Iron
Company, is printed President Wel
horn's explanation of the Rockefeller
"union" idea. The coal executive writes
"The plan specifically provides that
every employe shall have the right of
ultimate appeal to the president of the
company concerning any condition or
treatment to which he may be subjected
and which he may deem unfair; though
before presenting any grievance to the
president, the president's industrial rep
resentative, or other higher officers of
the company, employes are first expected
to first seek to have their differences or
the conditions complained about adjust
ed in person or through their represen
tatives, with the mine superintendent."
The differences between this plan and
trade unionism is :
While trade unionism always encour
ages workers to protest, it is aware of
the fate of employes who become too
insistent in their rights.
N'o trade union denies an individual
member the right to enter objection to
manager or other official against work
ing conditions, but experience has prov
en this is not a safe procedure if the
worker values his job.
PAINTKHS ASK IXCKKASK.
Holyoke, Mass. Painters' Union has
prepared a new wage schedule, which
calls for 30 cents an hour, to take effect
Mav 1. The present rate is 4.V cents.
