This Ss Seed Time---iT..r"S
friendships arc busy with the selection of seed for planting do not neglect the
most promisinc field for cultivation. There arc many around you who do not take and read
The Menace. Their names should be on the list and one dollar will pay for four forty-week
subs. Seed of this kind is worth sowing now for it will bnnC a harvest of ballots at cominC
elections which will brine larce returns in freedom from the treacheries ol political Rome.
Plant The Menace in new soil and reap protection for your children.
W . . J3 ThU If Number 233 W
Awi,IUmmH TgPfc fas ryXKff S
PATRIOTS
OF AMERICA
LINE UP FOR THE
MIGHTY STRUGGLE
Where They Stand
it mt h rei u r Wart jy
la Use dava af d-euwow ar rnpt II
aaay harp off aaroaJ ettast if w ha
4 a rst. Ht ywal! a I "
ked the bar to e whai If ,'i"f T
M M readies? prM-M lVjW' r ahowl
God. II : "No eoatrat with
aaathl subavtUac Himsrlf 1 the
ef la ftvrt, lied has given his Vfhi
la ail ta J.tBeal ea the aiaa or ara
aad rWa thw from the del laey o
to His efreaded majesty." Ta beats
ipecac; doeaal lit
Bowaaifan ta lis a kyena it will ras
aack graa ta apoa lae dead.
It Buy he a-" ta May o U taal
the esailrra saaathly aarssfwaa ef Car
diss I (.ilboa wa k koniak editor
eats were toute-l fnrwa'J la br the ra
ti ra reuatry (!) will aa Vcr be d
liiccrj hr lae Aeeorvate-I because
the alippery Card, la Wrf lt goiag ta
spiak oa ' ' rkjilJ if frmlr tm
raaw".' Jut bkw, taa auhtort al
esoet acw'ir taMTtuif l Ross It
politHe, aa4 what with taa pernliar ia-
or t a b " ' pol.ura ha df li.Maes, aaj
taa delitmeg of JI atra( la It
political ka'tcrs. h k. h i haada full
Taa auagrv Multitude axed ea-rrl aa
sere poetiaValioa by taa rariisal.
teen plaint waa ssade ly lb prwst
tt Catholic oltsra era tWurtaat ta
:k ta tU llolr Num rr-,r
Maer kol ia oreu, eed refue la
parade!" II tmw now thai r
, kaaliai ia dVnaiaa af""l jaiairc
Kaiwku af Co!ua.bua. for Tk Ttrt la
j BK.ii ta darUra: "Na CalaolW '
1 IiIm U ia jola la Kaiffkta af Coluai
i to: f-'tr kw atl araj if ka rra kittt
at it. k ot rtroaiaiaB-aM u
auttta aarf
Tar asl af laa aar i rala raadit
inaitial iatik'aiua af Koanaakau.
SOME UNMUZZLED
PRESS COMMENT
(Th Vlrt tara tVrra U aatiBC krU a fra- af taa ataar
al U a.) tonal nbmu aa.ia apoa Oa mUm af taa taraat aaaratloa la
Tat Mim aaj Upaukl. a ad fully tedxat4. Tkaaa ara m-t" of tM
atttvda af taa rraaiaW; Asx-maa prua towr4 aar drlafmiarj arpowUoa w
knmr'a rafaMja affona la wrark aar AstrrW-a IbjK 1 1 uUoaa aa4 taa fraa.
oai af taa ma aa4 frwloaa of apxoa. E4.)
Taa Fraa Piaaa Dtfaaaa Uar
ataada for taa fuadaaiaatai drmacrati
t) HUB of farBCB fr raa,
fraa a-kooli, a4 divoiva f ckurca
aa4 ttata.
Tba Kaifkta cf Ccluaba. Ika
Aatatvaa ladaraUoa cf CaUlie
HonaUaa aad tka Jwaita ttaa4 for tka
tritaai k.ca C foara ail Ucaa
tkiaja.
If tVa frM nraaa ia Ia b UTpd thera 11 Bot ft itf to b lot.
If our fr ichoolt r to t rrwerred in their glory and efficifnry
from the cafleM atUfka both diml and indirect or Ui iwmtn
liiarar.-i wa mmt nnita and in an intelliernt nation-wide movfment
tnliat every true American in their behalf; ahowinc what they hare done,
what they are- doinfr, and why they must be guarded at great non-eertanan
r(iinn1i f nnhlie initrnrtion.
If abaolute djorce of diurrh and atate ia to be maintained, if the
hT.1ii atand of the fathera of this republic, rrovidinir that no church
or aect ahould be ahown any faor or rrinlejfra, i to be mp-Ud, if no
church ia to be allowed to put ita hand in the public till or receive appro
mriatinna for aoctarian intlitutioua, then arer (ru Jimkm murt at
4 umU i gtnrrol concerted campaign to forte vpon te efientwn of
i$ vecpU tko fact that Rome m uarrina on fu great fundamental pn-
dvU of our Tree aemocracv tusi at n u mnv v vur fiu.
and FREE SCHOOLS.
PEONAGE IN PRETENSE OF CHARITY
Unspeakable and Unprintable Conditions of Filth, Disease and Immorality
Found on Inspection of Romish Orphanages, Asylums and So-Called
Homes Tried to Suppress Investigation Horrible Conditions
in City and State of Hew York
n thm thirtieth of Januarr of thii Tear the Boston American quoted
Monaignor Fplaine, an eminent dignitary of the Iloman Catholic chunh,
a characterijing in ft public addrea delivered in Iloston the measure be
fore the Majsaachuacua Legislature to promou appropnaiion ot puouc
funda for tecUrian purpoeea aa an "iniquitou bill" aimed directly at the
raUr eurck.m 'What do tou think of that?
Do you want to see the leak that haa already bepin become ft Johns
lown flood or do you want to atop once and for all time the raids on the
municipal, atate and national treasuries in tne miercai 01 wrcianau in
ftitutiona? .
There are today In the United Btate three great armiee ceawlessly
Working in the interests of politico-ecclesiastical Romaniam or for the ad
vancement of the papal theories which are in direct opponition to our free
democratic system of government. Here are eomo facta that no true
American can ignore.
The Knights off Columbus
There ia in the United States a tact and widely ramified Roman Cath
olic society known aa the Knights of lolumbun. Its members nana
n.thar aa a unit At the present time this orpanuation is conduct
ing ft republic-wido aggressive campaign for the purpose of lulling Prot
estant Americans to sleep. It's speakers are laboriously attempting to
prove that the Catholics are tolerant and liberal, while at the very time
when they are thus engaged we find Tope DenedUt denouncing the great
and God-fearing religiout preachers and ttarhert tent oter to preach the
aosvel in Rome ov the Meihoditt. Baptixts. Pre ibyte riant and Lutheran.
t.TARS "CALUMNIATORS." -THIEVES" and "EMISSARIES
OP SATAN." (We are using the exact words uttered by this pope last
November aa reported in 2 Aa I'tlol, Uie omtiai organ 01 vne noman vam
olio church of the diocese of Boston).
Thma Knitrhta of Columbus, furthermore, are talking about the in.
f Pmianla keenini them out of offices, yet we venture to
... that a list of the Catholic appointees in nation, states and cities,
should it be published, would amaze even the Roman Catholics themselves.
A Few Romanists and Their Positions
A nnvornor of Massachusetts appointed eleven Roman Catholic
judges out of thirteen appointments for the bench and vet the members
of this minority body in our electorate are not satisfied. They tell us
h.t Unman Catholics are beinir discriminated affaim-t
On October 9th, 1915, ft leading Romanist weekly, the Catholic Citi
ten, of Milwaukee published ft partial list of Roman Catholic office holders
it is ft partial list, a very partial list, which would look lean, indeed, if
nlarad aide hr side with ft fairly complete list, and yet thia record as given
by the Catholic Cititen ia interesting nd suggestive; so much so that we
republish it exactly as found in the paper.
After aUting that "the majority of these officials owe their positions
to others than President Wilson," the CaMoh'c Ciluen publishes what
it calls the "honor-roll" aa follows:
Ckiaf Justice af taa TJaitad Btatm: Elwrd DourIm White. Aawiate Joitlra
TJ 8 Buprwna Court i Jeacpk MrKenaa. Chif Jurtica of Califoraiai Jndg
Hullivaa. Chiaf Juatica cf Kabraaka: Judge Morriaay. Asaociate JniUeea of the
Buprcma Coori of taa atata of New York! Judgae Dowling, Donnelly, Philbia,
OiarcricB, and Ooff. Jndga of ttio Court of Appeals, 8tate of New York: John
W llocan. Aaaodata JutUfa Baraos of the Bupratna Court of Wisconsin. Ajaoriata
Jn'atina DaCourcT of tba SopraiM Court of Maasaehoactta. Aiaoeiata Juatiee
uiru of tha Buorama Court of Nevada. Ataoriata Jottiea Doaabua of
K. a,mina Coart of Ohio. AttonjeT General of IUinoin, P. J. Lrfirey. Tha
Governor of MaaaadmaotU: Hon. David Walsh. Cnitad Statea Senators: New
Vnrk. Sena Lor CGonnaa: MonUna, Senator Walsh: Ariiona, Senator Aahnrst:
IoiaiaBa, Senators Baeadell and Brouaaard; California, Senator Phebxn. Treavurer
of tba United Statea: John Burke. United Statea Commiaaioner of Navigation:
Engeae Trier Chamberlain. United Statea Commiauoner of Patenta: Thomas
' Erring. Director of Bureau of Printing and Engraving: Jowpfc E. Kalph. United
' 8tateaPublie Printer: Cornelius Ford. Chairman of tha Federal Commiiaooa on
Induatrial Belatioaa: Frank P. Walsh. Chairmaa of House Committee oa Appro
priations, ("Tha Watfh Dog of tha Treasury") J. J. Fitrgerald. Serretary to the
president: Joasph P. Tumulty. Ambassador to Austria-Hungary: Frederick Conrt
laad Penftetd. Minister ta Denmark: Maurice Fraoeia Egaa. Minister to tha
Balkaa Statea: Chaa. J. Vopirka. Counsel General of Berlin: Julius O. lay.
General Superintendent of tha Mail Delivery 8rteaa of tha United Statea: William
8. Byan. Chairman of tha Exarutiva Committee of tha National Democratic Cam
paign Committee: Frederie B. Lynch. Membera of tha Board of Indian Com
misaioners: Bev. Dr. W. 1L Kettham and Iaadore Dorkireiler. Chief of tha Bureau
af Naval Operations: Bear Admiral W. 8. Bmaon, IT. 8. N. Chief of the Steam
Engineering Department U. 8. N.l Bear Admiral Griffin. C. 8. N. Commander ol
tha Second Division of tha Atlantic Fleet: Bear Admiral Ferhteler, U. 8. N
Cranmander Pickett MoG render, U. 8. N- Commander of tha U. & 8. Baleigh
rmnaader Joha B. Brady. U. 8. N-, Commander of tha Puget Sound Navr Yard.
Commaader Luka MeNamee, V. 8. Commander of tha U. S. 8. Saeramaato.
' Commaader of the U. 8. 8. Dolphin! lieat.Commaader Leahy, U. S. N. (nptain
., Jamea G. Gleanon, U. S. Uommandsnt or vtanungtoa avy lard aad nupt.
af Naval Oua Factory, Washington, D. C Capt. William J. Maxwell. C. S. N,
' ' Governor of tha Island of Guam, P. L Chief of Bureau of Insular Affairs,
Brigadier General Frank Melatyra, U. 8. A. Commander of the Department
of the Philirptnes: Major-Oeaeral Then. IL Barry, U. 8. A. Membera of the
Genera! Staff U. 8. A-, Washington: Lieut-Colonel John E. MeMaboa, U. 8. A,
Major Robert E. Callnn, U. 8. A. Chief of Ordnaaea Department, U. 8. A.
and Mator O'nera, U. 8. A. Chief Quartermaster of tha Central Dept. C. 8. A.
Cot Daniel E. McCarthy, U. B. A, Chieago. Mayor of New York: Joha Purroy
Mitchell. Mayor of Boston: Jamea Curler. Collertor of the Port of New York:
' Dndler Field Makme, Major-General Joan F. CByan, Commandaat of tha New
YoTk National Guard. Edward Hurley, Member pi tba Federal Trade Commission.
Columra2),
Route has another vail coming. An
other "iMgut" is railing attrotioa to
papist prei-tit-ea suck as skua publicity
and thrne ia the dark. The ari h offendor
ia this i nuts ace ia John Adams Kings
bury, aa educator and aorial worker of
national reputation. We neither know
nr rare Lat Mr. Kii.clury 's rkunh
aitiliatiuus may be; but he has rol
himself to be tha riht man in the right
flare as a New York lnimiMunrr of
Chsritics.
Ta have the private charity Kraft cf
New Voik. city and slate, ventilated, it
was nereiwary for t'ommi"iin-r Kings
bury to prvfrr charges sgainit the ftate
Board of Charitiee. (ioternnr Whitman
authoriied a real iatestigatinn of the
state's rharitira by a committee com
posed of I'rotcetatit, papist, and Jewish
members.
Of court there was opposition from
tha first. Una Thomas M. Muiry, presi
dent of the !"t. Vincent da Paul atigrcga
tion, baniirted oRirials ia aa attempt to
substitute an individual of his own choice
for the investigating committee. He
frankly luformot those whom be tried to
influence that Home didn't want Jews
and Protectants going through hf sacred
slave pens and holv II. O. i. Styea.
When all this bluff and bluster failed
to diatuado divers oflicials from doing
their duty, the papist nirniU-r of the
eonuuittec. Brother Bsmsbas, rcfutel to
serve. Hut tha investigation went for
waril, just tha same; and New York
papera, of recent lat are bristling with
sin h diuuagitg details as are fit to print.
The prulx' waa impartially applied, ami
caught a fw non 'atholio inMitutiona
thst were found remis in duty toward
their rhsrexs; Ix.t numerous Roman
atholio institutions woro not only bUuu-
nble fur irregularities and unsanitary
conditions hut were itivrry filthy and
run for the express purpo-o of exploit
ing their unhappy inmaU.
This detestable graftiug upon .Ictitnte
children in the name of religious charity
rhowu to t widespread, not only in
tba city but throughout the state. Wit
nesses were relurtaut to testify concern
ing tho practice of keeping inmates be
yond the time for which they were com
mitted; but it was brougnt out in the
hearings that it waa not uncommon to
keep good workers imprisoned long alter
tha term of their commitment nai ex-
ired. The revelations are su'h that the
citr of New York now refuses to send
its destitute to some of theso places, ku1
there is a determined effort to make all
of them clean up aud couform to reason
able sanitary requirements.
The rrude and its revelations remind
ona of Charles Dickens' description of
such private schools many years ago in
England. Onlv here it is not a matter
of "half a doioa acaiecrows out at knees
and elbows," but hundreds of boys ami
girls huddled together in filth that aur-
ea tba worst experiences or uuter
Twist.
Mission of the Immaculate Virgin
One would naturally expect aa institu
tion with such a pretentious name, aonig.
gestive of purity, to be at least reason
ably clean; but the investigators report
tba presence in Uus Mission or tne im
maculate Virgin, on Staten Island, of a
thousand or mora boys, and mora than
four hundred girls, psle and weak from
lack of nutrition, many with vermin in
their hair, and suffering from scalp dis
eases, sore eyes, and eeiema.
Hideous as this must be to all who
possess any degree or nnman reeling,
much else was told at the official hearing
which the newspapers of ew ork char
acterize as unprintable. Wben tne in
vestigators visited the refectory of this
holy joint, for so the papists euphonious.
ly style Ibe reeding places in taetr
sanctified slave pens, they found the
dining tables covered with ragged oil
cloth that waa saturated with accumu
lated filth.
The food service was shocking. Soap
was aerved in dirty pails by hoys whose
hands seemed never to bava been washed.
Only half of those at the table had
spoons, and the remainder had to lap
up their food like dogs. One neetl not
wonder tbat conversation was forbidden
at such a festive board where strict
silence lit enforced. For breakfast there
was usually bread and coffee; and for
upper the bill of fare varied to the cl
ient of bread and tea.
In the dormitories bed were the' only
furniture, with linen both scant and
dirty, and without pillows or any means
of hanging tha clothes of such as uis
robrd. Some rolled up their clothing
and reed it in lieu of pillows while
others threw their garments oa the floor.
The whole place was infested with ver
min that seemed to bo more numerous
at the time of tho latest investigation
thaa they had hern previously.
Ta lack of toilet facilities waa so
great that but on tooth broth aAd oaa
piece of soap was found among SOObovs;
and the la. k of combs and brushes was
almost total. Ilathii.g was by bum bra
ia tanks with a erai.t supply of water
and scantier aosp aad towels. And such
u una of Home's greatest "charities ' ia
tba world's Urgent and reheat city.
Verily, this inspection ass not made ar.y
tixj t-arly for the welfare of the unfor
tunate inmatea or that of Ibe indifiVreut,
cjm gmng public.
Saint Joieph 'a Home for Girls
St. Joseph's Home f.r Girls is one of
tho- alleged asylums for girls conducted
by the Kiitcra of Mcr.y at 1073 Madison
Ave, New York City. How merciful
these sinters ar may he understood from
tLe testimony at tiis nfViai hearing
whih showed that the 37 girls in
carcerated in this ehve pen l iKir at the
most revolting dmdirurr for long hours
and nailer the most unsanitary cundi
tions.
It is a matter of record that the city
paid this institution more than a bun
tired thousand dollars r h of the past
two vt-ara for the material and spiriUiul
benefits it was supposed to confer upon
ita hrlpliws inmaus. . The investigators
declare tbat all these girls get is "ani
mal rare" for which many of them labor
in the intolerable brut of an ill equipped
lauudiy from 6 o'clock a. m. till Into in
the afternoon when, scary and toil worn,
they are generously given ouo hour's in
struction in something purporting to be
educational.
The bed linen In this plana waa found
to le tilth)'; aud, ia the infirmary or
quarU rs fur the machine maimed and
auk, there was but one towel and the
whole in rharge of an untrained woman.
In this place are conducted what are
ponpously called " imditution indus
tries," and the inference to the un
sophisticated is thut tliey nre vocational
schools in which the girl of tender year
may learn bow to make her way. I a
practice these "industries" are, like the
laundry, merely a mrani of coining their
young liodirs into prulit ; and one may
accurately estimate bow much instruction
these girls can acquire during tho last
hour of a day devoted to drudgery.
This pious fraud was ao rank that the
city refused at one time to commit in
matea to it until sorue degree of reform
was effected; but the practice of sending
homeless girls to tho pliue was resumed
on the plea that the city had no bore
i le U) send them.
Uoaed as uaaorthy of the support it
teceivea or of the con (ih nee fla-e-l ia
it by the uninformed puLtic. The editor
of l.'tltr'i commenta on the tliiluure
and relatej fa-ts as follows:
War? Why as lk ,'rkl wsra af Vrm
Tark ( lir catniitoa la li ia filth?. ImbbI
isnr i-rl.sis In.ui !!.. abm lh ar se.
uri4 sna iWrt. s4 Kr aa ws'kxa-
I trainlnr ia " At hsn fr til T
Wh, Vms 'is koara of rhaniw rltl
Sts Its rrrtifk-aia of op.fvvsl la wh tn
itufloii sfif l'rtfirUionr of puMtc car
lilos Ji.hs A. kinrtwrr Sss In.xtissira
II. m and lvtrt4 th( Kt fail to
Isln a S'lnimunt stsiMlsra nf -se sM Sr.
nrt 1 Ihm sn.osr l 'mluk." ahka ros
llnM to ts tbs ntir of smrlsnl gm
wnl.
Mr. K.t.t4rr sown tHal a rsr sro
Ik i-Ht intiiuiliu rrms fr l. cits
osiiU st a ow.niMr rtmi of li.ouo wore la
sa vnht rondttkas. hr rfuinc to ssa
Mrs rhltdrva In such tnatuutiona. k h
ll ahlo la rrnro eluht of fhrm ! Ih
siprod ll-t 1m Sft Initltutloa la shkk
lh ousi-linrnt rrfuMd ta fvnd snr mura
rhlldrva hlirr4 bars snd slrls. t:0 of
trbom wr city rKarsss. Kt a nMn. Sill
er loart i rWsa. tho lumlln( aa aid.
dlrly sn4 foul onoMirs. oil hrda r i
fto-o uk kua snd II howl pllWma or
ai'iinirs. oltk wstps lorn snd dirty.
Tho law forbtas th mnmiauoMff of rksr
tiles to pay any txiKl k- moiwrt or rnmmlt
childiva to any Inrtituitoa slock ksa a-i a
rortinralo of seprnyaJ from ths ttats board.
At tho sams tltn ks Is prohlhilod I ram wlia
kx.klins funds Iran, lntliuiku vrhh-k ksrs
this corilficaia. or trsn.lrrrlss rhIMron from
Ihom. hmmr asht tkry stay bs. Horaue
of pnliural prowsr tha stoU board of
rhariiirs contlnors to slvs lis spproval to
l unfit tnrtlistlons carlt for t.3"0 kat-M
antl orooins bova ajbd SirlS St S ooot to tka
rlty of IK'S .000 ntnnlk. Ao4 tka ksnda of
sn konost run-ntlMloasr el subtle ckaritlas
art tlrd. Shsmtlull
Three Cheers for The Menace
Ktery lover of frerdntn in the United Ftatea muft baT re
joiced eilvrlmglr nhrn the daily r1!" annouoced recently tha
rumrl-t vinJirat'ion of thia per'frr.m the charges of obscenity and
scurrility at urged against it by the papacy.
It it a Rreat tittory for free speech and a free pwa. Etery
editor hou!d be devoutly thankful that thia publication baa net only
fought for us a pTcat battle, but esiwially that it ahieed auch a
gloriotia and saeejiinc tulorr. Btfl think of what Kome had to do
in her attempt to rontit-t thee publishers.
She had tr adrrit that the lanjage of hf cwti theolojiana waa
t.3 tile and too inJrnt to be aeut througli the mailt.
Is not thst a M inner? The bct thinff for all patrioie eitiiena
o do nw is to send a one dollar bill and four names to TriB Mrx
ai i:, Aurora, Mo. Thia will put four pspera into a many homes for
one whole yer, and i the lst kind of foreign or home miwionary
work any one ran do. S-lex-t your name aniocj Roman Catholic if
s.sMble. They need it most. Poor, belpleaa and abated priest-rid-lcn
tple a they are. V feel sorry for them every day. If, how
ever, you run not" f.nd four uch people who will ajrree to read it, at
our evit iiM-, then try tour proposition on aomo of the uninformed,
wihy -washy, an-d-t.f-thoir-ehadow clerpy in your community.
Their are -orrs of them all over Wisnmnn. Perhaps after they are
comerled they might atrenglhen their brethren.
Anyho, e would like to aee that McvirE mailing list po up
to the two million mark before many more moona wai or wane upon
this mtiniliine sphere of ours. Fiat Lux ! H'taronstrt Christian Ad'
locate, Milicuulfe.
St. Michael i Home at Greenridg
This iSt. Michael's Home purports to
la a refuge for destitute children con
ducted by the Presentation Nuns at
Green ridge, Btaten Island. It haa a listed
rapacity of 200 boys snd 200 Kir la.
At thia blaco the whole equipment was
so defeetito that ut the tune of an ex
aininauon of the premiiea and protegees
conducted in 1014 fullv half of all the
children were physically defective; and
a year later nothing had been done to
remody that condition. These defects ex
tended in seriousness from bad teeth and
sore eyes to diseases of tho respiratory
organs sad incipient tuberculosis.
In this place, which pretends to house
anil rare for lour hundred young ehil
Uren. there is no dentist, not a trained
nurse, and no dispensary. At the time
of the investigation the dormitory rooms
were so cold that the vimtors were com
iielled to wear their hats and overcoats.
It is therefora not ut range thai pneu
monia is a prevalent competitor among
the numerous diseases.
It was discovered by accident that.
while the visitors were K'niC through the
institution, nine boys and girls in a par
ticularly unhappy condition were hidden
by tba management In tha sewing room
and that one of these had the chicken-
pox. The fire exits from dormitories
were found locked, so that a possible nre
would be practically sura to result dis
astrously.
And Tier Are Others
Similar results and revelations came
from the eiaminatioa of dosens of papal
institutions withia New tork City aad
at other places in the state. St. Agatha's
Home ror iniiciren, at vanuet, nas oeen
getting more than 9100,000 a year from
toe public funds lor taa pro lessee pur
pose of educating the poor, especially in
tha rotations; but the in-peetors stated
that the vocational training afforded at
tbis place is insignificant.
Pt. Malachy's Oeetn Home, at Rock
away Park, is another place where the
health of a large ncmher is neglected.
where as many as 20 bat bed together
in a tank ; where lit tie was furaished to
eat and no knives or forks to rat it wit a
In additioa to other poor facilities, the
dormitories art of frame construction
that, makes them literally fire traps
ease of eon fl aeration .
The 8acred Heart Orphan Asylum, at
Dobba tarry, ia aae'hsx ol mas man-
The Fighting Iriahman -
Much of the credit for the success of
the investigation must be given . J.
IViborty who earned the title of "the
lighting Iriahman" by bis grit and tie-
rminstiun while serving as one or the
committee composed of himself, Hsrna
Ui, and Dr. lk-rnstein.
Throughout the henring there was an
lll coneenled effort made to suppress the
motives lrk of such mismanagement.
Dr. Keeder, who testified as an eipert in
he orgiiniration and conduct of chsri
tnble institutions, mado many statements
f more than ordinary significance wben
their meaning is understood. lie is
noted lv the New York rmc as aay-
ing that "probably some of the institu
tions ' loo numerous to ba properly
maintained "were maintained to build
up religious orders."
To call it a proliaMo reason for their
existence is to put It in wry nui.i tan
giiage. It is a fundamental reason for
heir existence, another of which is that
tboy are run for financial gain.
And vet, one need not take sue a ser
ious exception if they were only ctlicieut
snd kept their hypocritical claws out of
public funds. As they stand, eiiweej to
the puMie in all their rotten niminers
and rotten management, tbey are typical
of the great international political eon'
suiracr which they are calculated to
serve.
Borne derives the greater part of the
sympathy expressed for her scheming
system from such pretended cbsritiea.
Pnrits point with pride to the buildings
erected largely from the donations of
impressionable people whose sympathies
run away with their judgment. Little
opportunity ia given to sro what ia done
for the inmatea or these pretcntioua in
stitutions: and the Kingsbury inveatiga
tion points to the quality of thia pre
tended charity.
Ia the first place, too man; orpnanages
and asylums are built for any practical
purpose. Even if the money begged for
the maintenance of these charity schools
were honestly need, tbs benefaction woultt
be overdone. Then why are they builtr
Merely because some dupe ran be tricked
into a bequest and others into donations
that rear a splendid property lor the
financial managers of tha papal system.
Money ran be borrowed on all of them.
Money Is borrowed oa the most of them,
and used in financial operations that the
public knows nothing about and is un
able to ever fathom.
It is all part of the great financial
and political game to make America
Catholic (Koman Catholic) and thereby
re-establish the last remnant of im
perial Borne upon the ruins of the Amer
ican republic. But, if the reader ia too
captivated by Romish pretense to. admit
this logical conclusion, na can ceruuniy
sea that public funds and pnbtie charges
would both rare better ir cities ana
states would own and operate their own
schools and charities.
If the citizens of the great city and
great state ef New York would only
heed the warning, and separate Rome
from publie funds and private gifts, the
mooer so aavel would Amid ani operate
schools aad charities that would really
educate aad pplift the unfortunate; aad
the rood work of Oot. Whitman, IT.
Kingsbury, Wm. J. Doherty, aad other
earnest eitixaaa of tha Eapuw aisle
would sot U ia raio.
Victory for Free Speech
The recently rendered verdict favorable to The Mevack Publishing
Co. of Aurora, Mo., in the suit brotipht a,;aint them by the hierarchy of
the Roman Catholic church ia a victor)-, not alone for the publiabera of
Thr XI kn ace, but for thoiw throughout the United State who desirw
the frcMiotn of the press. The influence of the decision will not atop at
the boundary lines in this country, but will extend to other libcrty-loring
peoples and nation.
Simultaneously with tho enactment of statutory law or the promul
gation of court d.Virion curtailing or abridging the freedom of speech
or of the pre; that moment, the very object for which our forefather
braved the danger anl hardship oi a sea voyage ami nie among uie eav
aijea, namely, to obtain freedom of conscience, ia made void.
An individual cannot maintain a clear conscience simply by having
the ripht attitude or conviction in his own mind and ln'art with respect
to certain vital qtieptions of morality, but he must fpciik or communicata
thow? convii tions to other.
Individuals are not mado the repositories of certain doctrines or
tnitha. They arc meant to be channels through which these doctnnea or
truths can be eouveyed to other. If tho Giver of all tnith desired to
bury it, lie could do ao without placing it in the human mind or nearu
II is only purpoee ia to enrich tho possessor with the benefits that coma
with the truth, aud then to have it pasecd on. Thia being the ca tha
possessor endangers his own safety by withholding tho truth.
One of the principal occupations of the Koman hicranhy is per
verting the truth. It not only corteala the same, iiacii, but viciously at
tacks anvonc else who dare to rix-ak it or write it. Tho hicran hy thrives
chiefly where ignorance is supreme, and hence it is no wonder that it is
leaving no rtone unlurncii lo keep ns sukjou, or anyone mora u may
be able to control, in ignorant.
The victory of The Menace rtatf is significant in that it reveala tin
fact that people want to know the truth and ana not willing to let the
"NittV of Columbus dictate what they shall read. We rejoice with the
publishers of The Menace in their vindication, and with all liberty-loving
jeople because of the triumph of tho right F. 11'. Borough in Ih
Good Citizen, Zarephath, .V. J.
Fail to Convict The Menace
The Menace, a widely known anti-Catholic paper published at
Aurora. Mo., haa won in tho case against its publishers who were on trial
in the United States court at Joplin, charged w ith sending improper mat
ter through the mails. The defendants claimed that the government had
no case in the first place and that the prosecution was merely a perse
cution forced upon the authorities by Uie Koman church and politicians
wcking to curry favor with adherents of this church.
While there are those who perhaps feel that The Menace is un
warrantably severe in its relentless war on Komanism, certain it is that
the persistent activities of the paper have largely been the means of un
covering the political wolf masquerading under a church which seem to
fervo as the sheep'a cloak.
During the fight to redeem tho schools here in Chicago we have had
a glaring example of how the church stealthily reaches out its tenacious
txilitical tentacles to suck the lifeblood of our cherished American educa
tional system. Mav we not suppose thnt it is reaching out just as assidu
ously in other directions? The Menace has made repeated exjcea which
r . . a a -.i ii
would lend to this conclusion, ana wun au its poweriui reugio-rwiiucai
machinery the church has neither been abla to successfully controvert tha
assertions or to suppress their publication. Ika Afiuonie Chronicler,
Chicago.
The Acquittal of The Menace
Onr readers have ao doubt followed with interest the trial of "THB MwaCX."
at Joplin, Mo., for lilwlinf tha Roman Catholie church. Tha daily press r" the
particulars of tha trial aa it proareaaeu, oo inry oavw utttb nwBBu mm
iU close, when tha verdK-t waa one oi acquittal.
It haa aerved a aeeded purpose to arouse aleepinf Protestantism, Uoufh wa
think there is greater BOed for a campaign or education aiong u uwt oi ww
fundamentals of Protestantism rather thaa continual oenoaciauoa ox no maoism.
Bot tha purpose of the trial referred to a bova was to suppress free speech oa
matters of vital interest to the publie welfare, and wa rejoice that U failed Lm
that purpose. Tke Chriifioa Instructor, Pittsburg;, Pa.
The Verdict In The Menace Case
On the fourteenth dav of January a verdict of "not rnUty" was returned" la
the ease of Thi Masses' Publishing Company, and four of it officials, who had
beea rhanrad with misuse of the mails.
Whether or not the Roman Catholie church was a party to tha suit recently;
conducted sfsinst Tint MlNact ia Joplin, Mo, ia doubtless a question in tha mmda
of many. Thb Ml art PuMiehirtf Company haa stoutly declared that the Itoaue
church wa pushing the suit while Catholica hava just as stoutly declared that it
waa not. Be that as it may, tha case attracted wida attention, wot so much be
cause of ita religious phaae as because it was conai dread a teat a of tha fraadoaa
of the preaa. Ta verdict renderd by the jury proved to be a aourea Of auscav
satiafacUea to Us people. I Gl TrwevjM, Aadersoa, lad.
Continued on Tage !
3
