The St. Joseph Observer
VOLUME IX.
ST. JOSEPH, MISSOURI, SATURDAY- FEBRUARY 26, 1910
XfMUF.R 21
f
' "i.
I
W
IF YOU HATE
M
IHET
Your Noise Does'nt Hurt Your
Enemy, But It Makes Weeds
Grow on Main Street
AND IT IS ALSO A
GUARANTEED PRODUCER
When You Have Exhausted All of
Your Abuse of the City Where You
Earn Your Money and Make Your
Wealth and Have Still Failed to
Make an Impression on the Man
You Hate, Import Some Profession
al Paid Reformer to Vlllify and
Lambast Your Town, Its People and
Its Institutions, and Increase the
Weed Area.
When you live In a fairly good town
KNQGK
OWN
jS as good as any other town but you
have It ln" for a fellow and you can't
"get him" any other way, grab your
club and begin knocking your town
and all of the Institutions and Inhabi
tants thereof.
When you have worked yourself up
to a high pitch of realization of your
personal worth and self importance
(as you see it) and everybody does not
see the same way as you do; fly into
a tantrum and take it out on your
town. Forget that it is the place
where you earn your living and where
you make your money and give it the
Old Harry don't mince words Just
say it is the rag-tag and bog-tall of all
creation and that Sodom and Gomor
rah were paragons of virtue and mod
els of decency compared with your
own town, and that all that is needed
to consign it to the hottest corner in
the nethermost furnace is for some
fellow to pull the string and let 'er
drop Into the all-consuming flames j
It pays to make your words good and
strong so strong in fact that they
burn and sizzle, and spit and hiss it
will call the attention of people on
the outside to the fact that your town
is a good place to stay away from
to avoid as if it were Infested with
the plague; a place that it is as much
as the life of a stranger is worth, dare
he but to step inside of its sin-soiled
limits, and did he venture to bring his
wife or sister with him she stood in
imminent danger of debauchery in the
middle of the principal street, while
the sun shone ln all its effulgence and
forty blue-coated minions of the law
stood by and watched the proceedings.
Be sure and' make your words and
denunciations eloquent, vivid and de
famatory. Also Import Help
And when you have exhausted all of
your vitriolic and denunciatory vo
cabulary and have failed to keep out
a few venturesome spirits and there
are yet a few score of your own resi
dents who have dared to remain; im
port a professional reformer or two
to help to complete the wreck. Don't
be particular who you get just get
someone who follows it as a business
at so much per denounce. Possibly
he is only a raw recruit in the work
and perhaps has just been lifted out
of the ranks of the wicked and made a
field marshal in the cause of profes
sional reform at so much per reform
but a little thing like that does not
matter, for in the circumstances It
would be burdensome to expect him
to know what he is talking about, and
he does not but he can help in
the fence-bulldlng-about-your-town, and
does not need to look around for data
for you will furnish him with a hand
picked assortment of "the power the
giftie gie us" and that will be suffi-
cient.
And Keep Him Going
And when your professional paid
reformer gets down to his work gets
down to business and assails your
town and your people and their
methods and the environments help
him to keep up the lambasting process
by bringing out a fresh bucket of
slime each day It don't matter where
you get it or how the medicine is made
just get it. It don't matter if tho
man who helps to get it for you has
escaped Just punishment only through
ijnne leniency 01 wiu juuki- - i
' right sort of n fellow to furnish such
raw material for ho knows how to
make tho decoction your full duty
will be to see that It gots to tho pro
fessional reformer bo that he can do
the rest.
Don't figure It possible that anyone
outside of yourself might at somo time
or other have been Inflicted with a
moiety pf virtue Just take It for
(Continued on Page Eight)
HAS THE KNOWLEDGE
The Republic Says Con Roach Has the
uicdicsi rung 01 rronciency in )
the Entire State
No mnn In public life In Missouri
possesses such a comprehensive know-
edge of the state's governmental at-1
fairs as does Secretary of Statu
Cornelius itoach of Carthage. A man
of great Industry and a master of de-,n
tail, he has for years set himself to the I
(continued on Paoe Five)
(Continued on PagcHve)
IS NOT THE TIME
Tried and Trusted Public Serv-
ants Should Not Be Displaced
In a Period of Stress ,
A dispatch which appeared In
the dally press of Monday brings j
the announcement that Lewis
W. Iteed, present maor of (
Hreckenrldge, has announced as I
a Democratic candidate who will '
endeavor to displace Congress- !
man Joshua A. Alexander of the i
Third district. Not to speak
lightly, this Is about as far as the !
displacement will progress j
simply an announcement that Is J
all for the rest is personal de-
sire lost.
Mayor Reed is a good Demo-
.1
crat and a good citizen an en- I
terprising and capable man a
man who had he the experience '
and training no doubt would j
make a good representative from
the great Third district but he
has not and he has no time to
gain it while real services are ,
needed as they are now in one of '
the most momentuous periods of
this great nation when, as Presi- '
dent Wilson has so tersely stated,
"we do not know what a day or
, an hour may bring forth," for It is '
NOW THAT WE NEED trained
and tried and seasoned men. to '
stand back of President Wilson
and this nation, and by their
training and experience gained
statesmanship, help him to pilot
the ship of state safety through '
the danger rocks which rear
their threatening heads at all
points of the compass on the sea
over which he is now sailing.
This is no time in which to
substitute untrained for trained
help, no matter how strongly the
untrained help might argue to be
iiwiminu 10 iwu' mi opportun-
ity. No sane captain ever sent a
trained and experienced crew be-
low while a storm was raging !
peranum to nae an opportun-
and brought up the apprentices
10 iane ineir piace anu none
ever will for no captain who
uu.ua wiu mis aim uvMiiues 01
his passengers in his hands ever
will take unnecessary and what
would be criminal chances there-
foro it is safe to say that the
conservative and trusted Demo-
cratic voters of the Third district
will make no mistake and desert
a tried and true and. capable and
seaboneu serant in a lime 01
stress such as Is the present
for an untried and undeveloped
quantity such as Mayor Reed
no matter If the Breckenridge
mayor Is a man of great and
pronounced ability.
And the same proposition holds
good all over these United States
it Is not a time for changing
good and tried and capable serv-
ants for experiments, no matter
what the qualifications of those
who have the desire for repre-
sentlng their country at the na-
tional capltol. President Wilson
needs the men who were with
him when he took hold of the 4
rudder of the ship of state he
needs the men who helped him to
put into effect the policies and
measures which he laid out when
he was sworn in and which he
has so far successfully enforced v
to the great good and benefit ot
the whole American people. The
Democrats of this nation should
not lose sight of the fact that
the Democratic party is now on
trial and that at a most unpro-
pituous and trying time when I
the whole world, with the excep- , plckp0Cket8 visited the Pfander hog
tlon of America, is on fire and sale Tuesday and got away with con-
when cool headedness and firm- slderable coin. One man, a banker
ness and stability and experience , 'rom S,1- Joseph, was relieved of $50.
..... - ...,....v,i . rr . a. 'Several others were deprived of their
count for everything. These men , BpendlnK money as well. This Is not
these experienced and trusted j nn ordinary thing to happen in a town
helpers such as Joshua Alex- this size am no one was expecting it.
ander and the other tried, tested ' Clarlnda Hifrald.
nnd not-found-wanting Democrats ' The above from an Iowa paper has
of Missouri who are now of his created a decided curiosity ln this city
' official family should each and las to tho Identity of tne banker who
every one be returned to give , would carry such a "wad" with him
him their needed counsel, help when he leavos this city and -journeys
. and services In this tho greatost to Iowa. Lew Ilurnos denies that he
. hour of national porll and stress, jhas been out of tho city; Graham Lacy
'..aaaaaaaaaaa'8'11 Florida; George Schneider claims
ALLEN WILL HAVE
When a tnan lias been tried,
i when lie has filled a public
muni tyj 'iii ij tnw viiiwu v, 'miivii i j;n,onui tuivi uuuui tv
liimcnlf it tc htit Tinfurnl flint tlin nnnnlo flin vntnrc wVin lmlrl life
' ... . . - . .
destiny in their hands should return him to the place that he has
so satisfactorily and ably filled,
fm. it10 ,,fin,i so,.viPO Hint ho hns
the voters 0f Buchanan county propose to do with Judge Thomas
Allnn. wlin is now hnlflino.infl nfrpr novr. Nnvnmhpv will nnn.
tinuo to hold the position of judge of Division No. 1 of the
Buchanan County Circuit Court.
opposition, for the attorneys
of the St. Joseph bar are so well satisfied with his rulings and Ins
conduct of his court that a canvass among them discloses that
.they want no one else and this includes those against whom he
I !'
JUDGE THOMAS B. ALLEN
'
,hoS ,pc(p(. :is well sir rhnsp fm-
,for ne decides his cases on the law and the evidence and not onto collect historical data and valuable
( personal feeling and the attorneys know that. relics of the primitive days, and to
Judge Allen has now been on the bench for fourteen months, provide an annual celebration for the
mnd they have been months of hard and heavy Work, for when he purpose of stimulating local interest
,.. .....,w.r ..w . . .. .. ...vuw w-
took IUS seat he found the docket far behind many cases With
took lUS seat He lOUlKl the docket far behind many cases With
whiskers growing on them, as it were and he at once set to Work
to accelerate the wheels of justice, and dispose of ,them. He did
not take a vacation, and practically held court all' summer, as a
.result of which his docket is Up
-s a leading attorney declared, "II you don't want to try a case,
don't let it get on Judge Allen's docket." The fact that he has
accelerated justice speaKS lor ltsell as to Keeping down court COStS
and its inherent benefit to the people and the taxpayers.
In addition to his duties as judge of Division No. 1, Judge
Allen is also head of the St. Joseph Law School, Which discloses
the esteem in which his knowledge and judgment is held and the
school has already achieved far more than local fame. Judge
Allen is conscientious and painstaking in his efforts, and has the
ability and that is why the people are going to send him back
without opposition.
JROPPED THE "ADVISER"
. ,
John" 4C,0UntyliU?el.e,de' T ,l Can
Get A,ong ,WithJout a Useless
, Appendage
i Warrensburg, Mo., Feb. IK. The
Johnson county bureau of agriculture
was automatically closed by the coun
ty court refusing to appropriate money
for the maintenance of the bureau.
Since the bureau was established the
maintenance and one-half the salary
of the farm agent has been paid by
public subscription, the other half of
the salary being paid by the county
court. This year the maintenance fund
was not raised and the court refused
to make an appropriation. M. E. Goug
ler, the present farm agent, will go to
Wilson county, Kansas, as farm ad
viser. WHO HAD THAT MUCH
Every Citizen of St. Joseph Wants to
Make That Banker's Personal
Acquaintance
IMPOSITION
tested and not found wanting
position with credit to the com-
. . ... . ...
and thus in part recompense him
vprw1f.rprl.nnf1 tli.-if is inst wlmt
, '"; !
wlinm 1ip fnnnrl in rhpir favnr
....w... a. v .. V ... ... ..,. W
and clean, and he will keep it SO
that he never had ?50 all in one lump thuslastlc supporters of the idea, "con- and O. G. Null, Pickering,
in his whole life; R. T. Forbes says , cernlng matters intimately connected C. A. Noe of Helena made an In
that he would never dare to leave the , with patriotism, and while we all, terestins: talk on "The Most Gratify
city with such an amount; Walter probably, approve the Idea of prepar- lng Experience of My Service as Mall
Ht-ad. argues that he invested his last' edness as a general principle, it is 'Carrier," in which the dominant
fifty in a patrol for the DeKalb road; quite certain that a loyal and deter- thought was that of his being enabled
Bill Evans says that he is saving his mined soul in the 'man behind the to give full value in service for the
half hundred to run for ma) or on the gun' is quite as esseritlal as the gun. compensation he received, and the
gopite ticket; Charley Wright sajs Patriotism Is not merely an emotion pleasant meetings of the association
that he has never seen that much to be stirred into activity by danger, ' were well brought out.
money; Walter Fulkerson claims that the bugle calls, or martial music. Thej W. D. Munshaw, the good natured
if he ever had that much together at sooner we realize it as a principle and ruralist of Savannah, produced con
one time the diiectors would call a apply it to our civic and national life vlnclng evidence of his knowledge of
special meeting; and Julius
Rosen-
blatt thinks it never happened.
Who is that millionaire banker?
?TT"N"nAV PfiT tuii TvTnisiTV
DUJNJJAX liUl 1Hj JYlUJNJliY
The Citizens of Trenton, N. J., Gave
Him a "Free Will Offering" of
Over $32,000
peace. There are many impending One of the most interesting subjects
Billy Sunday made good financially questions before America, external was that of Secretary O. G. Null of
with his seven weeks revival at and Internal, which demagoguery or i Pickering, who spoke on "The Obliga
Trenton, N. J., which he closed on mediocrity cannot be trusted to solve tion of the Patron to the Rural Car
Sunday night. A press dispatch tells questions with which only patriots rler," and which contains so muoh
the story this way: should be entrusted. One thing is cer-' good, sensible advice and so much
Trenton, N. J., Feb. 20. "Billy" ta'n "10 Pa'r't who is on the Job in I that the people, many of whom profit
Sunday bid goodby to Trenton tonight
when he boarded the Chicago Limited matter of principle rather than emo
at the Clinton street station here. Ten u f war should come, and defeat or
t Virtual n (I nnAnlu 'nra it t hn ilnnnt 1 1
tVinllairiil nnArilu 'nra it tVin Jannt rt
bid tho evangelist God speed. With'1?" WU on,y trenStllen hls lterm!-
him "Billy" took a check for $31,981, nation.
the free will offering of the people of. paEenntry is the best known of
Trenton.
A check for $377.03 will be sent to
the evangelist by the campaign com
mittee In a few days and the total
offering will then be $32,358.03.
Tho Noyes hospital will be ready
for occupancy by April 1, as the dual I "UB "muu" - - -Inspection
has been made and tho fur- i bratlon3 ot guch character attract M
nlturo ordered.
ON WITH THE PAGEANT
A Meeting for Permanent Organiza
tion Will Be Held In This City
Next Tuesday
On Tuesday, Feb. 29, at 2.00 p in.
hoturonn cnirnntv.flvn n n nnn Vinml nn1
, .' , "-""" ""- """ """ """"
delegates fl
t,irouBllout
the Platte Purchase ar
xpc lf t?n,"ll ln l!"s ?ty at the
-entral I,ubllc llurary for the purpose
' form nK th Hl9torI , s lcly of
,he, p,attof purch"?e- T r ,' lT
lln,1""ry, 8tepS r111 be ken Jor he
"'-"" ""'-''"," Ul, "" "" """' "'"h
cclebrtlon ot th dshtieth anniver-
a,ry of, "it territory in Northwest
Missouri which was not admitted Into
the Union when Missouri became a
part of it, and which is now known as
the Platte Purchase. On September
17, 1820, the Indians, then in poses-
slon of this territory, sold It to the
government, and It was subsequently
i annexed to the state of Missouri and
divided into the counties of Nodaway,
Holt, Atchison, Andrew, Buchanan and
Platte, constituting the greater com-
1 munlty of the Fourth congressional
i district.
) Last fall the Idea was advanced by
i a local women's club to celebrate the
eightieth anniversary of this pur
chase, by means of a pageant of an
I historical and patriotic character. The
' idea took immediate hold upon that
part ot the public advised of the move
ment. After many delays, due to the
1 want of co-operation and the numer
' ous interests of those most concerned,
the proposal has now reached the
formative stage with many interested the attendance was not as large as
1 supporters. was anticipated, and for that matter,
The meeting will be called to order as it should have been, yet those pres-
by Mrs. Frankie Hill, chairman of the.ent made up in enthusiasm and work
invitation committee, comprising forty
or more of the most prominent and
representative people ot St. Joseph,
and will then proceed with organlza- Among those present were: M. C.
tlon. Thirty or more organizations in Wachtel, president, Savannah; 0. G.
the Platte Purchase have endorsed the Null, secretary, Pickering; W. D. Mun-
proposition and appointed delegates, shaw, David Wardlow and B. A. Bone-
and in addition to these the mayors J witz, Savannah; C. A. Noe, Helena;
:of all towns and cities in the Platte j. j. Lukens and Frank H. Graham,
Purchase have been Invited to be rep-1 Oregon; J. B. Grable, Faucett; W. E.
I resented. This does not mean that McKee, Cosby, and O. T. Wakeman
'all who are Interested in the idea are'and G. S. Daughters, St. Joseph.
not welcome to be present and take
'part; on the contrary, it. is primarily
a movement "ot the people for the
people" and should be so understood,
The nominal obiect of the society is
I and unity, and of giving much needed
and unity, and of giving much needed
publicity to our opportunities and ad-1
vantages. It is expected that these'
celebrations will be held In different '
parts of the "Purchase" and will vary
in character as to continue the inter-
est while accomplishing the purposes
of the organization. bad conditions of the highways dur-
Ail persons unable to attend this'ing the winter months.
meeting, but who are interested in its I By unanimous vote. Oregon was se-
objects, are invited to make known the lected as the next meeting point, the
fact by letters addressed to the His-' time to be Labor day. Delegates to
torical Society of the Platte Purchase, ' the state convention which meets In
St. Joseph, Mo., but every one who' Hannibal in July were elected in the
can should attend. 'persons of A. L. Shafer, Oregon; G.
-Much is being said nowadays." said s. Daughters, St. Joseph; M. C. Wach-
Chas. K. Soper, one ot the most en-
rha u- Snm.r nn nt th most n.
each and every day, the sooner we
will realize the true import of Ameri -
canlsm.
"By means of pageantry, we may
not onIy ke01' I"11"101'0 ,(Ieals antl '-x-
ampie3 before the public mind, but in
time accomplish the practical appllca- able to take up his subject. "Some
tion of their spirit to our local and. Things the Association Has Accom
national needs, whether these needs 'pushed," and it went over until the
hn pnn nr the svmhnllp nalnm of Tiovt mirttini
times of peace, will be on hand as a
popular and comprehensive mediums
for community expression and stimu
lation. Incident to it may be many
other expressions or opportunities for
special work. Conventions may be
held, prominent speakers may talk on
vt ,r.W a ii. -i iM-ilitiimj Tin nnnnt Alrt.
(Continued on Page Five)
RURAL
CARRIES
FOR BETTER R0A05
And So Resolve at the Semi-
Annual Meeting Held
Here Tuesday
WILL TAKE IT UP
WITH LEGISLATURE
Carriers of the Fourth Congressional
District Elect Delegates to the State
Convention to be Held at Hannibal
Next July, and Go Through with an
Interesting Program of Matters of
Concern to Themselves and to Their
Patrons
The rural letter carriers of the
Fourth congressional district, at their
semi-annual session held here Tues
day, went on record for better roads
and also took measures to bring such
a result about and they mean it.
The regular semi-annual session was
held here for this district, which com
prises the counties of Atchison, An
drew, Buchanan, Holt, Nodaway and
Platte, on Tuesday. The sessions were
conducted in the court room of the
federal building, a forenoon and an
afternoon session being held. While
for the paucity of numbers, each sub
ject being generally and vigorously
discussed by all members present.
For Better Roads
In a strong resolution the collven-
tion went on record as favoring better
roads, and will present a proposition
to the state pnnvpntlon lnoklntr to tho
selection of a state legislative com-
mittee whose duty it shall be to take
matters up at the next session of the
'state legislature and procure adequate
laws.
laws.
Another
that the ca
take the it
resolution was to the effect
carriers in each county should
matter up with their county
court and remonstrate against the
working of roads late in the season,
which is now done and thereby causes
tel, Savannah; W.
tDi ;.,.nh. v v r,.u-0o r-cvv-
-, .U,IIV, VVUJ (
his theme, "The duty of a carrier to
.hia patrons," by producing a copy ot
i
the rules and regulations and stating
that he followed it to the letter.
J- J- Lukens, of Oregon, was called
to Kansas City and therefore was not
by the rural carrier s visits but accord
him no co-operation and assistance,
that it is hereby reproduced in full.
Mr. Null said:
The Patron's Obligation
"The relationship between the pa
tron ot a rural mall route and the car
rier on that route is a unique one, in
asmuch as while the labor and energy
of the carrier is expended for the sola
benefit and convenience of the patron
and thoe who desire to communlcat
with him, he i not dependent upon
the patron in any way for his poeitloH
(Continued on Page Eight)
V ik
