THE BARRE BAIL!" TIMES
VOL. XIX-NO. 294.
IMRRE, VERMONT, .SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 20, 1910.
PRICE, ONE CENT.
VERDUN DEFENCES
BEGIN TO CRUMBLE
An Avalanche of Germans
Hurled by Kaiser in Ter
rific Assault Carried the
Fortress of Douaumont,
Just Four Miles Northeast
of the French Stronghold
LOSSES OF ATTACKERS
SET AT 150,000 MEN
But Two Fors Lie in the Di
rect Path of the Invaders
in Their Drive Toward
Verdun Fury of Offen
sive Keeps Up, Says Paris
War Office
count of Hie war council in Berlin 8
which tho decision to attack Verdun whs
taken. It assert that the German and
Bavarian crown princes strongly favored
an attack on the trench front at v eraun
but that both Field Marshal von Macken
sen and Field Marshal von Hindenburg
opposed tho plan, contending that it
would be better to develop the operations
already planned against the Kussian
front, because it would be necessary, if
the plan of the princes was adopted, to
send to France reserves especially trainea
for Russian warfare.
Further, Field Marshal von Hindenburg
is reported to have said that the chances
of success on the Kussian front were
greater. He is declared to have Had lit
tie hope of the operations against Ver
dun.
FRENCH CAPTURED
250 YDS. OF TRENCHES
The tremendous German drive for Ver
dun is continuing with undiminished
fury. Berlin to-day claims the breaking
of the cordon of protecting forts, the
capture of Fort Douaumont, four miles
northeast of Verdun. The loss of this
ouUying fortification, however, is not ad
mitted in to-day's French official state
ment, which declares that in the desper
ate German assaults all along the Verdun
front the Germans are hurling men
against the French lines without regard
to the sacrifices. Paris declares the
fighting is particularly desperate in the
vicinity of Beaumont almost directly
north of Verdun.
The progress of the German drive is
being watched with intense interest in
all the capitals, as the strategic impor
tance of the fortress is recognized.
Late advices from Albania through
German sources predict the early fall of
Durazzo as the result of the defeat of
Italian and 'Albanian forces by the Aus
trians and Germans. The Italians are
declared to be hurriedly embarking from
that port.
A dispatch received in London from
Petrograd says the Russians have takes
by storm Kermansah, an important Per
sian city in the neighborhood of which
serious fighting recently took place.
German Official Statement Admits Loss
of Positions South of St. Marie-A-Py
But Says French Are Fleeing
in Woevre.
Berlin, via London, Feb. 26. The offi
cial statement to-day says that consid
erable advance has been made east of the
river Meuse in the region north of Ver
dun. in the presence of Emperor William
The statement also says the Frenc
forces made an attack on German posi
tions south of St. Marie-A-Py and pene
trated the first German trenches over
distance of about 250 yards.
"In the Woevre district the resistance
of the French broke down and we are
pursuing the retreating enemy," says the
statement.
PORTUGAL
PREPARED
For. All Eventualities That
May Arise from Seizure
of Teutons' Ships
ATTEMPTS WERE MADE
TO BLOWUP VESSELS
Existing Treaty wifV Ger
many Allowed to Lapse
for Portugal's Good
A SMALL FRENCH SUCCESS.
Berlin via, London, Feb. 26. It is off!
dally announced that Fort Douaumont,
one of the fortifications of Verdun, was
taken by storm yesterday afternoon and
is now firmly held by the Germans. The
statement says:
"The armored Fort Douaumont,
the northeastern -corner pillar of the
permanent line of fortifications of
the stronghold of Verdun, was
stormed yesterday afternoon by the
24th regiment Brandenburg infantry
and is now firmly held in German
hands."
Captured German Salient in the Cham
pagne District.
Paris. Feb. 28. The official statement
of the French war office last night was
as follows:
"In Champagne this morning we at
tacked and captured an enemy salien
to the south of Ste-Marie-A-Py. During
this action we captured 300 prisoners, in
eluding 18 non-commissioned officers and
five officers.
"In the Argonne our destructive fire
lias been efficacious on German orgam
zations to the north of La Harazee.
"In the region to the north of Verdun
snow has fallen in abundance during the
day. J he activity of the artillery on
both sides has continued very intense
on the whole of the front and principal
ly to the east of the Meuse where the
fighting goes on with the same tenacity,
"Several German attacks with large
effectives have been conducted with un
precedented violence on the La Cote Du
Poivre (about four and one-half miles
north of Verdun) but were without sue
cess.
"Another attack on our positions in
the Bois De La Vauehe also lias been
stopped.
"There has been no infantry action to
yie west of the Meuse.
in the v osges there has been an
artillery duel in the valley of the Fecht."
SUBMARINE WARFARE
TAKES TWO SHIPS
Fort Douaumont lies four miles north
east of Verdun and is one of nearly a
score of forts encircling the city. Two
forts lie. directly between Douaumont
and the city of Verdun. The capture of
Douaumont is the most important
achievement since the inauguration of
the German drive at Verdun, an on
slaught which for fury and for weight
of men involved has few precedents in
the war.
Verdun and its protecting fortresses is
regarded as one of the greatest strong'
holds of Europe. It is the strongest fort
ress of France and is of particular im
portance from the fact that it offers di
rect communication with Paris, 150 miles
away.
MEN'S LIVES HELD
IN LOW ESTEEM
German Emperor is Sending His Troops
to the Slaughter with Reckless
Abandon as He Strikes 1
, at Verdun.
Paris. Feb. 2ti. The Germans are con
British Steamers Sunk and Seven of Crew
are Missing and Two Others Died
After Being Picked Up.
.London, reft. ztt. Lloyds announces
the sinking of the British steamers Dena
by of 2.900 jns and the Tummel of 500
tons. Seven members of the crew are
missing and two survivors died after
being picked up.
MAY CUT OUT BERNSTORFF
And Conduct Negotiation with United
States at Berlin.
Berlin, via London, Feb. 26 The morn
ing newspapers yesterday printed a Hav
as dispatch from New York which says
that the administration at Washington
has determined to break off relations
with Count von Bernstorff, the German
ambassador to the United States, and
negotiate direct with Berlin
Nothing is known here regarding the
reported disfavor of Count von Berns
torff, but it is considered extremely
probable as was intimated in a dispatch
to the Associated Tress from Berlin soirn
time ago, that the submarine negotia
tions will be transferred to Berlin in ac
cordance with recommendations submit
ted to President Wilson several weeks
ago. It is felt here that this may ex
pedite a satisfactory settlement of the
whole submarine controversy.
The putting of the submarine question
in lotint von Hernstorffs hands after
the Arabic incident served its purpose.
Lisbon, Portugal, via Paris, Feb. 28.
The Portuguese minister stated in the
Chamber of Deputies Friday that
ttempts had been made to damage sev
en of the Teutonic ships requisitioned
by the government and that an explosive
was found on the steamship Buelow of
the North German Lloyd company.
The premier added that he considered
t in the best interests of Portugal that
the existing treaty with Germany be
allowed to lapse and that the Portuguese
government is prepared for all eventuali
ties that might arise from tho exercise
by Portugal of her rights.
ALLOWED MINORS IN POOL ROOM,
-J.
CONTEST OVER $80,000.
Niece of Miss Mary Ritter Shea Tries to
Break Will.
Littleton, N. If., Feb. 28. Hearing be
gan here yesterday in probate court on
the petition for appointment of a spe
cial administrator on the estate of Miss
Mary Ritter Shea, eldest daughter of
the late Chief Justice George Shea of
New lork.
Mrs. Elizabeth (Glidden) McGreevy of
Baltimore, a niece, who was given only
$1,000 of the $80,000 estate by the will,
is contesting its allowance. The bulk of
the property was willed to Rev. Dr. Wil
liam M. Jefferis of Bethlehem, N. H.,
and Philadelphia, a noted Episcopal missionary.
Miss Shea died in Bethlehem, N. H.,
Jan. 1.
Mrs. McGreevv is trying to secure a
larger share of the estate, being the onlv
heir-at-law. She has retained Clark C.
Fitts of Brattlehoro, Vt.; Albert Garceau
of Boston and George W. Pike of Lisbon
as her counsel. Dr. Jefferis is represent- j
ed by Nathaniel Martin of Concord and
Harry M. Morse of Littleton.
Dr. Jefferis was on the stand all day
testifying as to his relations with Miss
Shea, whom he claimed as his foster
sister. Miss Shea lived at Dr. Jefferis'
summer home in Bethlehem for long pe
riods during the last few years.
Bellows Falls Men Called to Account for
Law Infraction.
Bellows Falls, Feb. 28. The law
against allowing minors in pool rooms
was enforced yesterday when two lurk
ton proprietors of pool rooms In the bus
mess section of the village appeared be
fore Judge T. K. O'Brien in municipal
court and pleaded guilty to a violation
of that luw.
George Brown, whose pool room is on
Westminster street, pleaded guilty to
having four minor in his place of bus
mesa, and was fined fnO and costs of
$1.25. Coiisoulos Poulitikas, whose place
is in the Gray block in the square, plead
ed guilty to two offenses and was fined
$20 on each and costs of $12.11, a total of
$52.11.
There have been many complaint in
regard to minors in pool rooms in this
town and Thursday night Chief of Police
W. S. Severance and Officer Angus Mac
Kinnon visited the four pool rooms here,
fliey found four boy in Brown's place
and two in that owned by Poulitikas,
who bought his pool room about two
weeks ago. In court yesterday afternoon
te pleaded ignorance of the law.
A lifting machine was ordered de-
troved bv Judge O'Brien. The machine
was seized in a truit store on Rocking
ham street. A taj on the machine in
formed those who tried their strength
that if they lifted 400 pounds they would
receive one five-cent rigar. If they lift
ed 600 pounds two five-cent cigars was
the reward, if 800 pounds they received
three cigars and jt they lifted 1.000
pounds they received a box of five-cent
smoke.
DOZEN INDICTMENTS.
Were Found by Federal Grand Jury at
Burlington.
Burlington, Feb. 28. The members of
tho grand jury of the United State
court for the district of Vermont com
pleted their work early yesterday after
noon and returned 12 indictments to
court, one of which is the case of il
liam Deguiee, who was arrested bv L'nit-
ed States Deputy Marshal Thomas Reeves
I hursday, charged with rifling the post
box of Grand Secretary H. H. Ross of trie
Masonic, lodge of Vermont, which was lo
cated in the Masonic temple building. It
is understood that 14 eases were laid be
fore the grand jury from which they re
turned 12 indictments. An indictment
against Charles W. Porter was returned
Wednesday, he bein charged with the
embezzlement of about $320 from the
jiostoflice. of which lie was postmaster
at Guildhall. The grand jurors were dis
charged by the court and received pay
ment yesterday.
Most of the time of the court yester
day was taken up with the case of Hattie
h. Moses against James K. Howe, which
was begun Wednesday. The plaintiff
rested in the morning and witnesses for
the defendant were heard during the re
mainder of the day. Court was adjourned
SENTIMENT
SWINGS BACK
RED MEN'S BADGES
OF HONOR GIVEN
Cabinet Unanimously and
Congress Overwhelmingly
for Wilson Policy
NO PRESENT ACTION
BY THE LATTER
That Will Embarrass
Executive in Negotiations
the
Washington, D. C, Feb. 28. The ques-
At Annual Banquet and Celebration By
Iroquois Tribe Last Night, 200
Persons Being Present.
Red Men of Iroquois tribe with ladies
of the Pocahontas council and East Barre
and Montpelivr Rod Men as their guests
celebrated the anniversary of George
Washington's birth with a banquet,
speechmaking, singing and dancing in
Clan Gordon ball last evening. There
were 200 people present for the 12th an
anniversary jollification of the Red Men
and the get-together was described as
the most enjoyable in a number of years.
There was a surfeit of supplies for the
roast chicken supper served at 8 o'clock,
and if there waa not an overplus of good
fellowship, there certainly was an abund
ance of that.well known essential.
Peter Brown presided at the after
dinner program. Bruce's orchestra,
which had played a number of overtures
during the dinner hour, contributed sev
eral selections to the post-prandial pro
gram. Solos were rendered by Mrs. Isa
bella Cantlay Hall, Henry Clark, Miss
ASKS SPECIFIC
INFORMATION
Before Authorizing Central
Vermont Power Co. to
Issue $20,000 Stock
tion ot congressional action warning Agnes Keith and George McLeod. Tho
Americans off armed merchant ships con- toast to the ladies was offered by John
inued in abeyance to-day pending fur- McDonald, jr. I. pon Ira U right devolved
ther development-in the submarine con- lne " r i L l I
1 I ir.irt.nn. fJAnrrro R Hnnk nf Knur Twrrc
troversy between the United States and ,reat chipf of record. gave an interest-
Germany. With President Wibtoi backed ing address on the topic, "Freedom,
bv the entire cabinet and still unshaken Friendship and Charity," the motto of
in hi. .;iu !,.- .i,m,M b. J the Red Men. Dr. E. C. Barrett of Mont
" - "" ... . . , ... , . , .
k-i, I. ,.... i, .-1,1. , :.. I'c"" e iiiu-rtr&iJiiKijr uu me gwu v.
" "" " - order and Alex. Ross, great sachem
on the high sea, an overwhelming ma- 0f Vermont choee for his topic, "The
jority in both the House and Senate ap- Red Men in Vermont," giving a detailed
oarentlv ia determined that, no action account of the achievement of the order
OFFERED TO GRANT
RIGHT FOR $5,000
Public Service Commission
Hearing Testimony
Petition
Tli' v-rmont public service rommiss
sior v -li Chairman ft. C. Bacon. W. R.
W .r and W. A. Dutton and Clerk
Clawon present, held a hearing in
v supreme court chamber at the Stato
jvouso in Montpelier this morning on the
petition of the Central Vermont Power
company, Erwin M. Harvey of Montpe
lier, president, to obtain permission to
isue stock not to exceed $20,000, for
cash, to be used for the purpose of ob
taining land and water rights in thej
counties of Orange, Caledonia, and Or
leans. The latter part of the petition
was an amendment added by Mr. Harvey
after the hearing opened, the amend
ment being allowed by the commission.
Mr. Harvey, as a director of the Cen
tral Vermont Power company, testified
and recited a history of the coniDanv
r
be taken for the present that might em
barrass the executive branch of the gov
ernment in the diplomatic negotiations.
LIKELY TO RECOVER
Although Leslie Farrington May Be Mi
nus Part of HU Face.
Woodsville, N. H., Feb. 28. Leslie Far
rington' attempt to commit suicide by
shooting himself in the head ie not likely
to prove fatal, it ia thought. The act
was aommitted Thursday night in the
vicinity of a building on Central street
known as the "Brick store." Farrington
blew off the right side of hi face with a
shotgun.
Farrington and wife was one of three
since it was introduced in the Green
Mountain state.
One of the pleasing features came when
Mr. Rock presented the honor badge to
James Taylor for devotion to the inter
ests of the Red Men. James Rothnie re
ceived a past sachem's jewel. Dancing
was in order after the program and1' un
til an early hour this morning the Red
Men and their guests gave themselves
over wholly to the enjoyments of the
terpsichorean pastime. .
The committee ih charge of the affair'
consisted of the following members
Alex. Ross, the great sachem; Peter
Brown, past sachem; Ira Wright, chief
of records; James Rothnie, keeper of
wampum;! Joseph Collings, senior saga
more; Janes Taylor, guard of the for-
families occupying the second floor of .; ,.3?Vi. wmW-1" """"S
the building, the first floor being used by ill.ara Pine, decorator; Alex Miller,
Rhett C. Scruggs as a plumbing estab- - dewrator; - John McDonald,
TWO SEAMEN DROWNED.
When Boat Was Dashed Against Break
water.
Chicago, Feb. 28. A petty officer and
an apprentice seaman at the naval train-
ng station at Lake Bluff were drowned
estcrdav when a heavy sea dashed a
boat load of the reserves against the
breakwater. The dead are Robert M.
Walters of Philadelphia, chief gunner's
mate, and Bradford Bixby, Muskogee,
Okla., seaman apprentice.
Fourteen youths were in an open boat
practicing rowing under the command
f W alters. They had rowed some dis
tance in Lake Michigan and were return
ing to the training station, when a heavy
ave dashed the boat against the break
water.-
The boat did not overturn,, but five
of the occupants, including Walters and
Bixby, were thrown out.
at 3 o clock in the afternoon until
o'clock Monday afternoon-
LEIGIITON'S ilECORD
WAS NOT GOOD
TURKISH ARMY GOT AWAY.
tinning their violent attacks north of It is felt here that Count von Bernstorff
Verduu without regard to their sacrifices, I has a thorough familiarity with the
the war office announced this afternoon.
The German losses during the first
four days of the battle around Verdun
are authoritatively estimated at 150.000.
The German offensive is recognized
tiow as probably only the beginning of a
determined effort to take the fortress
formerly the key to the French front,
and compares in violence ami losses to
the tttle f iwr. Ihe rrencn assume
the tattle may continue a fortnight. It
is believed the calm Thursday night was
only a lull required by the attacking
force to bury their dead, carry of?
wounded and bring up reserves to take
the place of divisions half destroyed
ly French artillery and machine gun.
The German force are known to be at
least 3.onrl, supported by numerous 15
inch and 17-inch Austrian mortar with
II the heavy artillery used in the Serbi
an rampaign and part of that formerly
employed on the Kussian front.
SAYS HINDENBURG OPPOSED.
Attack en Verdun with Troep Needed
oa Russian Front.
retmffrad. via London. Feb. 28 The
f.iissky Invalid, the official orgun of the
Kussian a: bit, ruUi-be to dj aa -
American viewpoint and of the currents
of opinion with regard to a solution of
the controversy, and that with the prog
ress that has been made in Washington
much may be hoped for from the second
shift to Berlin.
I.es importance would be attached to
such transfers in normal times than un
der present conditions, with communica
tion between the forejgn office and the
I nited States so limited and so diffi
cult. The reer4 innilMf T . ... - !
' ' .iiniwpnnuvi, 1 1 . "T-l I ,
no bar to the transfer of the question to
ieriin. i ne ambassador broken col
larbone doe not prevent him from being
at ni aric ana transacting business as
usual.
Main Body of Troops Left Erzerum Be
fore It Fell.
London, Feb. 26. A.' dispatch to the
orning Post from Petrograd says:
From the latest information it seems
certain that Kamil Pasha, former Turk-
h grand vizier, got his main body of
trops from Krzerum and moved west
ward at an early period in the Russian
ssault on the Deve-Boyun heights, and
that the Turkish forces which were cut
up in the earlydays of the pursuit were
only the rear guard. Apparently the
Russians have now disposed of this rear
guard and come to close grips with the
main body of the lurks.
DIED IN RANDOLPH.
Mrs. MarceUa Wardwell Was a Native of
Winooski. .
Winooski, Feb. 26. The body of Mrs.
Marcella Wardwell, who died at Ran
dolph Thursday, was brought here to-
iay, and the burial will take place in
Lake View cemetery in Burlington.
Mrs. Wardwell was the widow ef Lor
enzo r. wardwell, a liielong resident of
this village. She died at the home of hpr whole family.
Men Concerned in Death of A. C. Gibson
at Sharon Were Frequently In
Trouble at Haverhill, Mass.
HaverhiJI, Mass., Feb. 26. Charles S
Leighton, who, with his two sons, New
ell and waiter, has been arrested in
Sharon, Vt., for killing Albert C. Gibson
is well known here. The whole family,
including even the mother, had frequent
ly conflicts with the police. The father
and at least, one of the sons, have been
convicted of crimes of violence, and one
of the boy served time in the Lyman
school.
Xewell, the younger boy, was brought
into court here at the age of ten as
delinquent in liMl", and was placed on
probation. The following year he was
convicted of assault on a smaller boy
and was fined 10. In 1900 he was con
victed of arson and was sent to the Ly
man school. He was let out on parole,
but in November was rearrested upon a
new charge of delinquency and was re
turned to the school.
In 1014, after he had been absent from
Havrrhill.for a year, the police took him
in on a charge of breaking and entering.
The family lived in the (Jorlise hill dis
trict, and had the whole neighborhood
terrorized. At one time, in 1914, Deputy
Sheriff Porter C. Croy went down to the
Leighton home to replevin a horse. Tho
whole Leighton family jumped on him,
and even ,the mother is said to have
taken a hand in the fight. One of the
boys jumped on the liorse and rode it i
away, and the shewff, badly beaten up,
came back to town. '
A warrant was sworn out for C. S.
Leighton. the father, and Capt Harry C.
Hill went down to serve it that night.
He. too, was assaulted and driven off.
This time warrants for the father and
the two sons were taken, and a posse
went down to Corliss hill at 4 a. m. and
brought back the whole Leighton fami
ly. No punishments were inflicted how
ever, liecause the Leightons said they
were about to leave the state.
Walter I-eighton, the older son, Is now
just 21 years old. He was brought into
cour as a delinquent in IfMI7, hut was
not punished. He did not figure in diffi
culty again until June 30, liU4, when he
had part in the affair that brought in the
lishment, while in the basement is a res
taurant conducted by Mrs. Farrington
and her mother, Mrs. Wbiet.
Farrington and his wife had Wen hay
ing eome domestic disturbance for some
time, it is said, which culminated when
he called on his wife, who was tending
the lunch counter, and after some words
reached for the shotgun which hung on
the wall. '
Fearing for her life, Mrs. Farrington
warrior; Guy Ultolini, sanap; w. w,
Russell, past great sachem; Joseph Fra
er, brave; George Rand, sachem.
B0UTWELL AGAIN NAMED.
Montpelier Voters in Caucus Gave Him
Unanimous Support.
Mayor James M. Boutwell was unani
mously nominated to succeed himself for
fled- upstair, and her flight was aoon the year next ensuing at the Montpelier
loitowed y a report ot tne gun. citizen' caucus held last evening in the
A moment later Farrington came rush- auditorium of the city ball, a caucus
ing upstair without the gun and holding which set an example for unanimity ami
a towel to his face, the side of which he brevity. The meeting was called to order
had mown on. at 7:40 o clock and just twenty minutes
A doctor was hastily summoned, as later Chairman William A. Lord put the
were Deputy Sheriffs Davis and Rine- motion for adjpurnment. As freely pre
hhrt, who soon arrived with Dr. R. O. dieted, there failed to be a contest for
Perry of Wells River, and the wounded any of the numerous offices to be filled
man was taken to the Woodsville Cot- by" the voters at the election March 7,
tage hospital. Doctors Dearborn and and all are assured of election next
Spear were called later.
EAST MONTPELIER.
Prize Speaking Contest Was Well Car
ried Out.
In spite of the bad weather there was
a large attendance at the regular annual
month.
, Joseph G. Brown called the voters to
gether and William A. Lord was quickly
elected as chairman and T. R. Merrill
secretary. Following-the reading of the
call, Benjamin Gates placed e name of
James al. isoutweit oeiore ine caucus
as a candidate for mayor lo succeeded
himself, and F. W. Mitchell, who last
prize speaking contest held at East year opposed Mavor Boutwell, but was
Montpelier on Friday night, Feb. 25. The
contestant were divided into two di
visions, one set who had never spoken in
a prize speaking contest before and an
other set who had previously contested.
In the first set the prizes were award
ed as follows: First prize to bovs to
Paul Townsend, second prize to boys to
ieorge Sibley, first prize for girls to
Mary Glridding, second prize for girls to
Mildred Thurston. In the second division
first prize to Frank Clark, second prize
to Hugh Laird. The judges made hon
orable mention of Miss Marjorie Morse,
who certainly did excellent work.
The judges were Dr. Hatch, principal
f Montpelier seminary, Mis Allingham
nd Miss Hinkley, also of Montpelier
seminary.
All the speaking was of high order
nd certainly showed hard, work on the
part of both teacher and pupils.
FORMER BARRE WOMAN.
VERMONT MAN KILLED.
George Gardner' Body Found at Bridge-
ton Junction, Me.
Portland. M- Feb. 28. George Gard
ner of Guildhall. Vt., tu killed hv aa
tbnund freight tram on the mountain
division of the Maine Central railroad st
Bridgftnn Jum-tKm ThurdT night. Near
bis body ws found a small grip contain
ing tae full aiart bottk of akvhoL
daughter, Mrs. W. R. Chambers, in Ran
dolph, to which place she moved a few
year ago. She was about 3 years old.
Several years ago when her daughter
moved to Tupper take, X. Y.. she went
with her and family. I -a ter Mr. Cham
bers gave up the hotel business there
nd moved to Randolph, where he en
gaged in the ice business. Mm. Ward-
well i survived by two daughters. Mrs.
W. R. Chambers and Mfss Jennie II.
Wardwell.
IF PARIS FALLS
London Itself Would Be in Danger of
Invasion.
London, Feb. 28 -The importance te
England of the hattie raging around
Verdnn was emphasized bv Major-Gen
eral Sir Francis Lloyd, general officer,
commanding the lndn diMrirt. in a
speech yesterday at the opening of the
military building at Wimbledon.
In the great war whirh Is now pro-
en-eding. said General Lloyd, "every in
dividual must rive up w!f ahoolutelv and
all must unite in one bond to make the
ar result im vk.Uj.
Chales S. !-oighton. the father, was
arrested in 1013 and was convicted of
the larceny of a quantity of bay. The
dispute was very much jike that which
ended in the death of Gibson, in Shar
on, Xt. Leighton escaped going to pris
on by settling with bis neighbor for the
hav.
BOUGHT RAZOR; SLASHED THROAT.
Charles Alpin Didn't Even Wait to Leave
Biddeford Store.
Biddeford, Me.. Feb. 2fi.-1irlcs Alpin
of 80 Itonair street. Somerville. lass
Mrs. Alexander Brebner, Aged 47, Died in
Worcester, Mass.
Mrs. Annie S. (Smollet) Brebner, wife
of Alexander Brebner, died Feb. 24 at her
home in Worcester, Mass., aged 47 years
and nine month. She waa well known
in narre, wnere Biie lived tor 10 years
before moving to Worcester. While in
llarre she and her husband lived in North
Barre. They went away about eight
years agr
Mrs. ltremier was born in Scot land.
the daughter of (ieorge and Elizabeth
Smollet. Besides her husband, she leaves
a daughter, Elizabeth I, a son, James;
a brother, George Smollet of Michigan,
ami three sisters, Mrs. Jane Dunbar, Mr.
William Cowie and Isabella Smollet, all
of Scotland. She was a member of the
IVesbvterian church and of the Indies of
the Clan tiordon of Barre. The funeral
is to be held in Worcester Sunday after
noon at 2:30.
defeated, seconded the nomination, which
brought out the only applause of the
meeting. Mr. Boutwell was quickly nom
inated and other nominations were made
in the following order:
City clerk and treasurer, T. R. Merrill;
city sheriff, L. II. Pollard; first and sec
ond constable, Robert Johnson, and G
D. Pitkin ; lister, for three years,- Frank
D. Grout; three auditors, M. E. Smilie,
L. H. Bixby, F. R. Pitkin, city grand
juror, A. C. Iheriault; Green Mount cera
eterv commissioner for five vears to suc
ceed Jesse S. Vile, deceased, Robert F.
Bliss; park commissioner for term of five
years, A. D. Farwell.
HEARING ON ACCIDENT CASE.
State Industrial Accident Board Consid
ered Two. Cases in Barre.
Allegation that excessive charges for
medical and surgical services were fixed
by doctors, one a Barre physician and
the other a Montreal, P Q., profesional
man, were responsible for, a hearing be
fore the state industrial accident board
Barre Friday afternoon. Chairman I organization, etc., and $5,000 additional
since it filed articles of association with
the secretary of state April 1, 1915. The
commission commented on the oversight
ot the company in failing to tile with the
.commission a copy of the articles of as
sociation but agreed to leave the mutter
with the petitioner to attend to at the
earliest possible time.
The corporation was formed with E. H.
Deavitt, T. H. Cave, jr., and F. T. Par
sons as directors with the first named as
president. Resolutions were passed look
ing to the purchase of the Coolev prop
erty in Washington county on the Wi
nooski river and the issue of stock was
contemplated. This resolution was re
scinded at a subsequent meeting and
since that time the Crolay property has
been acquired by the Tenney company.
In January, 1916, the annual meeting
of the company was held and the control
passed into the hands of the Harvey
family. The directors elected were E.
XL Harvey, his wife, Mrs. Clara Harvey,
and hi father, Roney M. Harvey. The
witness testified that he was "elected
president and treasurer and further stat
ed that no capital stock has been issued,
no debts incurred and no business done.
He had been advised that it is neces
sary to obtain permission of the public
service commission to issue capital stock
and for that reason was making the petition.
Sherman Moulton of Burlington, rep
resenting the state, asked the witness
what was to lie done with the $2(T.0OO
obtained from the sale of stock and Mr.
Harvey replied that it was the purpose
of the company to see, in a humble way,
if it could encourage development of land
for water power, the company being or
ganized to deal in the sale of electric
power. The necessary working out
would be to issue more stock, the wit
ness testified in answer to a query by
Attorney Moulton.
The commission informed the petition
er that it had been the practice to ascer
tain what the money obtained from the
sale of stock was to be used for and the
chairman suggested that if Mr. Harvey
was not prepared to state any specific
property the purchase of which the com
pany had in mind, a certificate authoriz
ing the issue of a smaller amount might
be issued at this time, enough to qualify
the directors.
The commission and Mr. Harvey then
engaged in considerable discussion over
the point of whether a company would
have to name specific things which were
contemplated in order to obtain a certificate.
The commission suggested that the au
thorization of the issuance of $5,000 bo -made,
the money to be used for prelim-
nary survey, investigations, etc.. point
ing out that the commission cannot au
thorize the issuance of stock unless it
has knowledge that a fair value will be
obtained for money expended.
Mr. Harvev then asked for a certificate
allowing the company to issue $.).0OO
worth of stock, the money to be used for
FORMER BURLINGTON MAN.
James Lee Well Leaves Widow, a For
mer Northfield GirL
Burlington. Feb. 28. New was re
ceived in the city yesterday of the death
attempted suicide by cutting hi throat jof .lame I-ee Wells in ( hicago on Wed
in the alc hardware store late vester
day afternoon. He entered the store
and asked to be !ion some rZir. Se
lecting one thst cost a dollar, he paid
fT it. remarking that it would suit hi
piir"oe. threw back hi head and slashed
his throat, making a gsh n inches long.
He as ruhe! t the Webber hospital,
and it is believed tKst he will re,tver.
When aked on the way in the hospital
hy he did it. be murmured "on a drunk."
He MeMilied bv a Pitofi V. M. C.
. a, i. Ct-ffiUrrihip sr j in hi foiket.
ne.ly of grip and pneumonia. Mr.
Will was graduated from Burlington
high school in I!H. He was aswu-iated
ot late vesrs with his iirwle. S. K. Bliss
in the steel businem in Chicago, here
hi future seemed especially promising.
Mr. Wells lesves his wife, who was Mi
liura Cutting of Northfield also a grad
uate of Burhngtn high chnoI. In, and
one dang' ter: hi mother. Mrs. S. E.
w.-IW of .!er.-h. and two brother. Fred
of tlaVland. Cl- and lw-rge of ibistoa.
Burial will be ia Jerkh.
Robert W. Siinomls of St. Johnsbury
presided at the hearing and the other
member' of the board present was Fred
S. Pease of Burlington. -Miss Laura M.
Burbank of St. Johnsbury, clerk of the
board, also attended the hearing. Al
though the Montreal eye specialist named
in one of the allegations was notified of
the hearing, be was not represented. The
Barre doctor who figured in one of the
petitions was present.
The first case was that of Casemero
Campo, a granite worker, who suffered
a finger injury in a mishap some weeks
ago. It was alleged that a charge of $18
was made by a local physician for twehe
office calls, the total bill for medical and
surgjoal services approximating $!XI. Evi
dence in the case was heard and the
board reserved derision.
n the second case Arthur Kmond. also
a granite worker, was struck in the eye
bv a fragment of flying steel, lie went
to Montreal and hail the steel removed.
according to the allegation, and the prac
titioner fixed his fee at fl'. Repre
sentative of the liability company in
terested in the case contended that the
practitioner asked only $10 for a similar
operation in wIim-Ii i-ase it was known
that the injured rson carried no lia
bility insuranee. An in the first case, de-
be issued for investment purposes.
Although not taking any active part in
the hearing the Teneny company was
well represented with the following offi
cials present: President A. B. Tenney,
Manager H. D. Sands. Manager H. D.
Ijirrahee, Attorneys W. B. Stickney,
'Fred E. Gleason, R. H. Iana. Engineer
Sargent. William Corrv, C. E. Cookson
and C. F. Millar.
ri..ion a reserved and the board ad
journed the hearing.
PLA1XFIELD.
be held
ainrieM
Teacher' examinat.ore will
the high t '." r'm at I'l
Ihiirs-lay and Kri Uy. Marth 2 and 3. I
iimin at 9 eVIwk a. m. cn each. Jay.
DEATH OF AN OLD MAN.
James Lafferty of Montpelier Was S7
Years of Age.
James Lafferty. one of Montpelier'
oldest residents, died at his home. 22f
Main street in that city, this morning
after a short illness. He was brn in
Cnada 87 years ago but remove.! to
Montpelier more than 80 years ago.
Sini-e then he had resided there. His son. '
James P. lafferty. died last winfer. and
the only relatives surviving are a neph
ew. Colli lafferty. and a granddaugh
ter. Katherine IjifTerty. The tuner!
probably will be held Sunday affcrnom
t St. Augustine's chur.-h.
Brat tie boro Church Extends Call.
Brattlehoro. Feb. 2fi.-The tenter tVn
gregationsl rhtireh last night voted to ex
tend a rail t Rev. Ki.-hard H. Clapp of
Farmington. Me to snereed Rev. Roy M.
HfnigHon. who recently resigned f- be
come pastor of the lliurrh of the Ke.
rieemer in New Ilen. Coin. Mr. lpt
niis a graduate of An.lorer Theolofrieal
kiimiuii under the late I'.et . ( harle (I.
Iy, fornrfily '' of the churca iar
