A
w
CIRCULATION IS
OVER 4000 DAILY
FULL LEASED
WIRE DISPATCHES
m m ei i
t ;:,TSrfe AMI; 1
If I t U N I I hV -re.
n o la I
PRICE TWO CENTS g?AUlDSS
THIRTY-EIGHTH YEAR
SALEM, OREGON, SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 26, 1916
TERRIBLE BLOW DEA
BY GERMANS AT VERDUN
Armies Press Resistlessly Forward Over Blood-Soaked
Field France's Mightiest Fortress, Considered Im-
l pregnable, Is Seriously Threatened French Claim They
Are Prepared and That Should Verdun Fall, Remaining
Defenses Will Hold
' London, Feb. 26. Verdun, Frances mightiest fort
ress, heretofore considered unconquerable, is seriously
threatened.
Brandenburg troops among the crack men of Ger
many vesterdav entered the steel clad town of Doua-
mont, keystone to the fortifications of Verdun from the
northeast, and only four miles distant, while the kaiser
himself looked on, today's official Berlin statement de
clcl 16(1
Though Paris failed to confirm this German gain, the
vagueness of the French communique, telling of taking
up new positions backed by the Meuse hills, caused un
easiness here. Papers accepted the Douamont victory
reservedly, yet admitted the situation daily growing
more serious. They suggested, however, that the mag
nificent French resistance is such that even should Ver
dun fall, the French front could not be broken for a drive
on Paris. Bombardment of the remaining forts before
Verdun and the shelling of Verdun itself is expected at
once. The French are ready. Months age they tunnelled
the city for refuge, and their big guns and their men are
prepared for any lengths to save the city if possible from
the Teutons.
A later Berlin statement told of capture of positions
southwest and east of Louvemont, at the same time ad
mitting that yesterday's report of capture of Champ
Neuville was incorrect. This statement indicated -that
while the French right is retiring, the left resting along
the Meuse heights has been maintained despite German
onslaughts.
"On the Wcevre plain," said the statement, "the
enemy's resistance broke down from a point near Marp-poville."
The reported rapture is believed ti
have followed the collapse of tl
French front from tho Ridge Cote Dt
I'oivre (l'epper Heights) through Be
aunvnux. In view of the position of
Pmiamont, it w also believed the whole
French force defending Verdun from
the north and northeast has backe
into the fortress under the most ter
rible stroke dealt by the Germans since
their offensive started.
Cote Du Poivrc, key to the city's
northern defense, luul been regarded as
impregnable, even though' assailed by
the enormous number of guns the Ger
lniius had massed for their drive. The
In lest Paris statement admitted that
German regiments were assailing the
French armored trenches and redoubts
there, though it claimed these assaults
bad been repulsed.
.Show has added to the terrors of the
campaign in that region, but the fight
ing continues.
From Douamont, the German guns
rim bear upon the forts De Vaur, De
Tavennes and De Belleville and sweep
the northern plnin about the city with
ii fire no infantry coulj withstand.
"" " Loss 200,000 Men.
No estimate of the fatalities in what
may prove to be the most sanguinary
battle of the war is obtainable, though
it is accepted here that both -sides hav
lost over 100,000 men. French estimates
Aba Gartin
Some folks are so sen.-itive that they
feel snubbed if an epidemic overlooks
'em. It's a lucky girl that's got a lit
tie sister 'a clutheo t' t ar thvio days.
J 1 Bri cioe
that the Germans lost l."0,000 thus fat
are considered too high, though it is
probable that nearly two corps were
wiped out in mass attacks against some
of the strongest field position's the
world has ever known.
Capture of Douamont alone was ac
complished by tremendous losses. The
blood of thousands of men mingles
with the snows of the region.
Bevond doubt, the Germans have
centered all their resources upon the
Verdun drive, hoping that, after taking
it, they will be able to make their
wav to Paris and thus bring an early
end to the war. French reports indicate
that the Teptons have drawn on their
Russian fortifications to supply needed
guns, and that others, released through
Serbian successes, have been concen
trated in the Verdun region. The en
ormity of German losses already is con
sidered proof that the kaiser plans to
bring France to her Knees ana to com
pel n peace.
The French have been thrown bark
nenrlv four miles along the eight mile
front" before the efty, and, according to
Berlin, the Teutons arc still progres-s-
While the offensive against the
French proceeds the English to the
north are not inactive. The Berlin state
ment reported the English hail attack
ed east of Haas and Armentieres last
night, but claimed they had been re
pulsed, French Resistance Heroic.
Paris, Feb. 20. Resisting heroically
the German drive against Verdun, the
French have taken up new positions
backed by the Meuse hills, said today's
communique.
"The battle north of Verdun is con
tinuing," -said the war office. "Ac
cording to the last information, our
forces were resisting the Germans with
out counting sacrifices. Our artillery is
replving to the German fire, shell for
shell."
Tho communique, couched in vague
language, does not confirm the German
claim of the capture of Douamont. The
new position taken up indicates that
the French have retreated, though men
tion that these points are "backed by
the Meuse hills" is valueless as a
clue to indicate the extent of the re
treat. It is possible that the French
left wing evacuated the 'pepper
heights" and is moving back upon
Bras, or, it is possible the French have
only been forced back on these heights
Russians Advance Steadily.
Petrogrnd, Feb. 20. Kermansah, Per
si i, has been captured by the Russians
after a three day battle, said delayed
dispatches today. The victors now ex
pect to make an early junction with the
British at Kut el-Amara, Mesopotamia,
10 miles distant.
The capture of Kermansah. coming
., . J i i... .i...
H:. u uiii.-f, nun iui .i.-.t win. ii. mr
Russian victorv at hrzerum.
(Continued on I'aje Eignt.)
WHEAT TAKES TUMBLE
Chicago, Feb. 26. May
wheat dropped 5 1-2 cents dur
ing the day, closing at $1.13 1-2,
a new low mark for this crop.
rt we.r cables and nervousness
er the international situation,
ri ;ether with a determined
Q ir raid were responsible.
v wneni uroppea o
.its.
a Drops In Portland.
irtlnnd, Or., Feb. 20.
at prices dropped 5 to 0
in the loenl market today,
of a slump on tho Chicago
nge caused the break.
...ent declines in the price
of wheat arc credited by
market men largely to the order
of the British government tak
ing control of the entire mer
cantile marine.
Lighter Carrying 150 Motor
Trucks Sunk Blaze On
British Liner
Xcw York, Feb. 2fi. That anti-ally
plotters plan a new campaign of de
struction wis believed today following
the scuttling of a lighter earring loO
allied motor trucks, and a fire aboard
the British munitions steamer Ilvmg
ton in the lower bay.
The moorings of the lighter were
cut, and the vessel was then scuttled in
mid stream. Shortly afterward, the II
vington, anchored in the lower bay, was
found to be afire. The bl.ize was soon
extinguished by a fire tug.
Simultaneously District Attorney
Cropsey of Kings county received an
anonymous letter, recalling the recent
4,000,000 fire in the Erie basin and
saying it was "only an indication of
what is going to happen."
The warning, coincident with tho
lighter anil ship incident, was regarded
so seriously th.it a detective guard was
thrown out at the steamship piers.
Stock Market Weak
Bank Reserves Low
.
(Copyrighted lilli, by the New York
Evening Post.)
New York, Feb. 20. It is debatable
whether the decline in the stock market
today was due to the German capture of
Douamont or to other influence, though
for a long time the market has not been
reflecting military news. Prices open
ed uncertainly, then gave way and in
the List hour were distinctly weak, clos
ing without recovering.
Another heavy decrease in surplus re
serves, amounting to 000,000 was
reported in the bank statement, leaving
the actual surplus a little below that of
a year ago, and the lowest since March.
foreign exchange was mostly unclung
ed, with slignt movements adverse to
Austria and italv. Preliminary totals
of the January foreign trade of the
country confirmed that there had been
very large exports.
California Company
Has $45,000,000 Surplus
San Francisco, Feb. 20. The Stand
ard Oil company was authorized by the
state railroad commission today to issue
$24,X4.'I,300 worth of its common stock
as a dividend of one-half a share to
each share of stock outstanding.
The company scheduled with the com
mission assets of $100,000,000 and a sur
plus of $45,000,000. Its net profit
in 1015 were nearly $10,000,000.
The company operates in California
alone and comes under the jurisdiction
of the railroad commission because of
its ownership of pipe lines which tin
legislature a year ago declared public
utilities.
MRS. COLEMAN APPEALS
Eugene, Or., Feb. 26. Mrs. Helen
Coleman, aged 60 years, ha , appealed to
the supreme court from the decision of
the circuit court granting a divorce to
John H. t olcmnn, nil. 'the decree gave
iier ti.j.wu worm oi properi. air. anu
Mrs. Coleman were married three ye.tr
ago at an old peoples borne in Califor
nia.
PORTUGAL EXPECTS WAR
London, Feb. 20. The Berlin press
is urging a prompt demand upon Por
tugal to release interned leuton ships
seized this week, though Foreign Sec
retary Von Jagow lacks confirmation
of the seizures, said a dispatch tod.ty.
Madrid dispatches said that Portugese
authorities frankly admit they expect
Germany to declare war on Portugal.
MAT LOWER INTEREST RATES
Spokane, Wash., Feb. 20. A Icore of
bankers from northwest cities arrived
in Spokane today for a conference,
nmt to nttend the. hnnnuet of the
v.cur.iig m, association
night. Among other things thev will
night. Among other things thev
consider the question of lowering in
terest rat on deposit from 4 to 3
r cent.
ZEPPELINS Will
CARRY SUPPLIES
ATLANTIC
German Airship Authority
Predicts This May Be
come Possible
SWEDEN, SPAIN, RUMANIA
MAY TAKE SIDES IN WAR
Latter Is tho Unsolved Puzzle
of Balkans Smiles at Al
lies Just Now
By Carl .. Ao'-erman.
(1'nited Press Staff Correspondent.)
Berlin, Feb. 2H. A great fleet of Zep
pelins flying to America and bringing
food back to Germany, is a'possibility
if this war lasts several years longer,
an authoritv on aeion.intics declared to
day. "Seems like a dream," he said, "but
a war that has seen submarines go
from Wilhelmshaven to Constantinople
and Zeppelins and aeroplanes play un
suspected roles may see some even more
startling developments in, say, three
or four years.
"The very fuct that this possibility
is being discussed is evidence of the
realization here that this war between
England ami Germany is to be decisive
if not a luttle to exhaustion. In this
finish fight Germany expects to win,
if necessary by bringing into play all
the inventive powers that already have
stood her in such good stead."
In counting the probabilities of a
long war, German military critics are
casting their eye at neutr.ils that muy
become involved. They are speculating
for instance, on what would happen if
the English threw an armv into Hol
land and marched-" -ainst Aix-la-Ciiap-pelle
to trap the German army in Bel
gium. But the fact that the Dutch govern
ment has just voted new credits for
the defense of Holland's neutrality sat
isfies the average Berliner that there is t
little danger from that source.
Sweden, Spain and Rumania, it is con
ceded here, are the three neutr.ils most
likely to play prominent roles if the
war is long drawn out. Humors that
Sweden plans to attack Russia if the
war becomes one of exhaustion have
been in circulation- here for months.
Reports that Spain has been buying
munitions in America have jlso aroused
public interest when viewed in connec
tion with Spain's decades-old umbition
to conquer Gibraltar.
Rumania is the unsolved puzzle of
the Balkans. At present she is con
trolled almost entirely, according to re
ports brought here, by England's
heavy purchases of Rumanian gr.iin.
Italian Accused of
Setting Fire to House
Portland, Or., Feb. 20. Accused of
attempting to set fire to a house in
which five children, a man and woman
were asleep, Vito Colacoln, Italian lab
orer, was arrested today.
At four o'clock this morning, a street
cleaner saw Colacola set a dishpan
filled with gasoline ami kindling under
the porch of the residence of Joseph
Battaglia, and set fire to the gasoline.
The alleged incendiary was followed
and arrested. Battaglia said he had
quarreled with Colacoln, who had
threatened the lives of his faniilv.
Police Pick Up Two
Suspected Auto Thieves
Two men who were endeavoring to
dispose of an auto robe and a kit of
tools for an Indian motorcyclo were
brought to the station today by Officer
Nicholson whero they were booked on
a vagrancy charge while the source of
their supplies is being investigated.
The officers are of the opinion that
the plush lap robe and kit of tools are
sTolen property. The men gave the
names of Ueorge Mines and George
Stevens and pleaded guilty to vagrancy
charges and were given 10 days to
think it over in the city jail.
MORE CANDIDATES FILE.
.1. M. Pdank, of Canyon City filed to
day as a rnndidate for nomination by
the Republican party for the office of
District Attorney for (irant county.
Other candidates are: W. II. Chatten,
of Portland, candidate for nomiuation
by the Republican party for the office
of Representative in the legislative as
sembly, Seventeenth representative dis
trict, comprising Multnomah and Clack
amas counties.
A. K. Voorhics, of Grants Pass, can
didate for nomination by the Repub
lican nartv for the office of Represen
tative in the legislative assembly,
Heventh representative district, com
prising .losephino comity.
V. M. Duncan, of Klamath Falls, can
date for nomination by the Democratic
party for the oftice of District Attor
ney fur KIK'aniath County.
UNEASY "CONSCIENCE"
HETTJRNS WATCH
After 13 years as "lost"
Mrs. Kate Bernard!, wife of
Joseph IJernardi, assistant en
gineer at the state house, re
ceived a silver watch which she
had long ago forgotten after
giving up all hope of finding it.
Tho watch was losl in a hop
yard in years ago and as it was
highly valued as a keepsake by
Mrs. Berna.rdi she advertised in
the local papers and offered a
liberal reward for its return.
Yesterday the watch arrived in
good condition neatly packed in
a box and bearing a three cent
stamp but not a single line to
indicate who had been carrying
it Till of these years or whose
conscience felt the twinge that
caused its return to the right
ful owner.
Posse Gets Accurate Descrip
tion of Hoboes Who
Dressed His Wounds
Sun Jcse, Cal., Feb. 2(! Bloodhounds
trailing the murderer or George A.
Jones, retired banker who was stabbed
ti e'enth at his home yesterday, today
picked up the blood trail in Alameda
county. Shortly before noon they
passed through Warm Springs on the
state highway and headed in the gen
eral 'direction of Irvington.
The most important clue given the
posse thus far came today when a
rancher near Beriyessa told of having
treated a stranger's arm for knife
wounds.
Rains obliterated the blood trail
and it was lost several times by tho
hounds and time was lost picking up
the scent again.
The coroner's jury today brought in
this verdict:. "Death due to knife
wounds inflicted by a party or parties
unknown."
Mrs. Jones appeared at tho inquest
and told the coroner tho sanio storv
as was reported to the police.
The San Jose police have received
an accurate description of the sup
posed slayer from two hoboes who de
clare they encountered the man early
Friday morning in San Jose. Tho man
had a severe knife wound in his arm,
they said, and they assisted him in
dressing it. The last time they saw
him, they said, he was going in the
direction of Alameda county.
Tho police are confident that despite
the difficulties presented by the rains
which have obliterated the trail at
many points, the bloodhounds will be
able to run the suspected man to earth.
They started on the scent two hours
before midnight but made a false start
and after midnight wd5' brought back
to the scene of the crime and started
anew.
Also Wants $20,000,000 for
Nitrate Plant Needed In
War Times
Washington, Feb. 2. The house mil
itary committee today voted to rec
ommend a regular army of 14.,UUU, it
ter having defeated Representative Til
son's plan for an army of 220,000 ns ad
vocated by General Leonard Wood.
Representative Ka'nn, of California,
Absent from the voting, favors a re-con
iteration ibut it in understood the
question will not he rc-opencd.
The bill authorizes a $20,000,000 ap
proririatiou for a nitrate plant, to be
devoted to lertili.er manufacture in
peace times anil to munitions manufac
ture in war times. It would be leased
in pence to a private concern at a re
turn of three per cent on the investment
th the government tixiug the price
for its output.
Keizer School Formed
Parent Teachers' Club
The patrons of Keizer school met and
formed a parent-teachers club Thursday
evening.
The rooms were decorated with ferns
jnd pussy willows. A short program
was given liy the scnool roiiowcu oy
short adress by Superintendent W..M.
Smith on the need of such a club.
Miss Helen Cowgill followed with nn
address on Industrial club work, which
was greatly enjoyed by all.
Mrs. lurk, president of the County
Parent-Teachers' association, then took
chame. organizing tho cluu. Hcircsn-
ments were served jfter the
business
meeting adjourned.
All present enjoyed the evening ami
it is hoped there may be more such
gatherings.
rHINK CONGRESS WILL
FORGE WILSON TO YIELD
Ackerman Wires From Berlin That German Officials Count
On Congress Forcing President to Back Down-Think
Congress Will Pass Resolution Warning Americans To
Keep Off Armed Ships-Administration Handicapped
by Lawmakers
1
By Carl W. Ackerman,
United Press Staff Correspondent.
Berlin, Feb. 26. Germany counts upon congress to
force President Wilson to back down from his position in
the German-American situation, the United Press learned
today. While officials would not comment upon it, the
general feeling here is that if the matter of the German
armed merchantmen decree is referred to congress, a
resolution will be passed, warning Americans from
traveling on armed ships.
Dispatches suggesting the possibility that President
Wilson would ask the recall of Ambassador Von Bern
storff caused great surprise here. For the past 24 hours
the United Press office has been besieged by telephone
calls from officials and prominent men inquiring as to the
truth of the reports.
American Ambassador Gerard and Foreign Secretary
Von Jagow declared, however, that no such intimations
had come to them.
Though the report that congress may force President
Wilson to yield to Germany roused hope here of a peace
ful settlement of the controversy, the feeling against
America is daily more intense. Not only the public but
also officials are frankly bitter in their criticism of the
president for refusing to warn Americans to keep off
armed ships, an dthe consensus of opinion is that recall
of diplomats, would have the worst possible effect upon
German-American negotiations. - ' J ,
Ambassador Gerard, despite his recent accident,' is
now at his desk looking after American interests.
The above dispatch is the first word of the German
feeling since a breach was evident between the president
and congress on the decree situation.
Washington, Feb. 2(1.- With the Ger
man submarine warfare on armed mer
chantmen scheduled to start in four
days, it appeared unlikely today that
congress would interfere effectively be
fore then in the German-American dip
lomatic situation.
A crisis in relations between tho two
countries, however, is imminent.
Germany ' reply to the American re
fusal to acquiesce in the German pro
ject was expected momentarily ami it
was believed German Ambassador Von
Bcrnstorff would be ready to present it
to the state department Monday.
That the answer would be unsatisfac
tory was regarded by the administra
tion as u foregone conclusion. Moreover,
despite rumors of a postponement of the
warfare decree, officials did not be
lieve Germany plans any delay.
After two days of discord, congress
prepared today to relax its agitation fur
a warning to Americans to refruiu from
traveling on armed ships.
Congress Backing Down.
Some '"flare ups" were still antici
pated, but serious attempts to puss over
President Wilson's objections nny meas
ure warning Americans to keep off
urmed mere-bunt ships hud been tempor
arily abandoned. In the senate, the (lore
warning resolution had no chance of
coming up today because of the legisla
tive maneuver of taking a recess yes
terday to today, instead of adjourning
as customarily.
As for tho statements of Speaker
Clark and Mnmrity Leader Kitchin that
nn "overwhelming majority" of the
house favors a warning, prominent
house members declared these views
are mistaken.
A group favoring a compromise mens
uro suggested that President Wilson
wnru Americans from armed ships, but
declare them within their rights it they
violated the warning. As a corollary to
this proposal, the administration would
be asked to warn Germany that it h jk
taken all possible steps to protect citi
zens, but still would hold Germany to
"strict accountability" if any were
injured or killed through (iermnn at
tacks. The conviction was expressed at bi'
ends of the cnpitol mat congress will
not jirem warning resolutions until an
actual break with Germany is imminent
or until a crisis arose in which the presi
dent would have a free hand if not
curbed by congress. Meantime, the
president and his personal aides, inelud
ing Postmaster General Burleson plan
ned to conduct a "personal influence"
campaign among congressmen to pre
vent further trouble.
After n canvass, Senator Lewis, demo
cratic whip of the upper house, report
ed to Stono thtit opposition to Presi
dent Wilson could not prevail, so he
recommended a vote on the Gore and
Jones resolutions as soon ns desired.
Lewis prepared a resolution to intro
duce Monday endorsing the president's
stand.
Germany Did Not Play Talr.
Washington. Feb. 20. The reason for
administration opposition to issuance of
a warning to Americans to keep off
armed ships was explained by a hi"h
state department official today for the
benefit of tho public, at the request of
the United Press, lie said tnnt loiinw
ing tho I.usitnnia torpedoing Germany
promised not to attack unarmed liners
in the future without warning to insure
tho nafety of passengers. Then before
the informal Liinsing-Hernstorf f confer
ences wero fairly started over Amer
ica's demands for disavowal, admission
of liability, and punishment of the e.om
mnnder, the torpedoing of the Arabic
occurred.
In settling this latter case, Germany
promised not to attack any liner witn
out warning.
After months of informal negotia
tions, Germany phrased a final reply in
tho I.usitauia cuse, satisfactory to tho
original American demands but before
the formul agreement was reached, how
ever, Germany issued her proclamation
of war on armed merchantmen.
"Another reading of the Arabic
promises showed that tho decree was
wholly inconsistent with tho settlement
and nullified it. Again, if the govern
ment were to warn citizens, it would
pluco the situation in a position of nnl
lifying and even repudiating the I.usi
tnnia demands," said the official.
One Nation Replies.
Washington, Feb. 2d. From one of
the allied nations, America has heard a
to her proposal that, for the sake of
humanity, armament bo removed from
merchantmen. Whnt this reply stated,
or from whence it rnme, the administra
tion would not announce today.
It was, however, of uch a nature
ns to have no effect upon the American
difficulty with Germany over the lat
ter decree of war upon nrmcu mer
chant ehips.
(Continued an I'aje Kight.)
THE WEATHER X
I
Oregon: Tonight
and Sunduy fair
west, unsettled,
probably rain or
snow cast portion.
