enedises for bohaecat adow i ILL so AS
per.p
NO. 3692. Wta -AIL WASHINGTON, D. (3., MONDAY, NOVEMRIR 2t, 1916. ONE CENT
VILLA BATMS
INTO CHIHUAHUA
Report of Pershing Being gn
Move Strenuously Denied.
t.y the imter.tm... New. serving.)
Celhainn N. mez.. Nev. m.VisM
0- Pnaltive Ravmes
s Menes, by mistary telegraph to
- m--us. N. Mes.. Nov. so-All
Caerma treea inorethwester
Chihuamh have been ordered to
eeaeentrate at Jumres, aeedams to
relible Itferenaato seeetved to
stght.
This eeaeemerateAm of mssxe"U
treepe at the herder win heave thi
seettom of Chtaa.ma esepled by
Aeereat treepa afame. The towns
of Mader., Peersem G C Grades.
El Valle. NamatiWai and a.eeas
wil he atsipped of their Meinan
garrnem to erery st the mobal
nation order.
Juarez. Mexico, Nov. 5.-Latest ac
counts reaching Federal agents here to
night indicated that Francisco Villa was
in possession of a portion of Chihuahua
City including the water works.
There was still a break in the tele
graph line between Chihuahua City and
Juarez. presumably twenty miles south.
Military operators were In possession of
the line from Chihuahua City and to the
break and from the break to Juares.
Permhing Reported Moving.
El Paso. Tex.. Nov. 26.-Reports reach
ing here tonight but discredited by State
Departnent agents said that Gem. John
A J. Pershing's punitive expedition at Co
,onla Dublan was moving northwest upon
i'hihuahua City. It was said that re
ports of atrocities on Americans, Chinese
and other foreigners In Chihuahua City
by the Villistas prompted the War De
l'Artment to order Pershing's cavalry to
interfere.
The report came from Carranza sources
in Juares and Federal agents In El Paso
were unable to obtain any verification.
It was not evident whether Trevino and
Ozuna had gone out to meet Gen. Mur
gula in an effort to draw the fire of the
,illlstas. a strategic move, or whether
they were making a bona fde retreat be
'ause of lack of bullets and shells.
Funsten Iores Dental.
P4ani .Antonio. Texas. Nov. ML-"Utteriy
ridiculous." said Maj. Gen. Frederick
inston. commanding the Southern De
artment. UT. S. A.. tonight, when in
I -rmed of press dispatches from El Paso
raying that Gen. Pershing was meving
upon Chihuahua City.
"'Gen. Pershing takes his orders from
me. and I have not ordered him to make
a move." Gen. Funston added. "OMf
c1aIly it is nothing to the War Depart
4 ment. so far as know. who ls victorious
Jm.ihe.Aighting around Chihuahua City.
'There is absolutely no excuse for the
nited States forces at this to in
terfere . in the scrap among ,
Ozuna and Villa. I have ordere Psh
ing to make no move whatever and I
believe that nobody in the United States
government has any authority to give
ordera to Pershing over my head. You
can brand that yarn as absurd.''
4 DEAD, 2 SUICIDES
IN DAY'S GAS TOLL
Two Men and Two Women Victims
of Asphyxiation.
Four deaths from gas, two men and
two women. were reported to the police
yesterday. In two cases the coroner gave
certinicates of suicide. The others were
accidental.
J. B. Bittenbender. 60 years old, was
found by his wife late last night in the
hathroin on the second floor of their
home. 14 Sixth street northeast. The cor
one- i.ued a certificate of suicide.
A little earlier in the evening residents
of thc apartment at 92 D street north
west broke into the room occupied by
Mrs. Ester Cochran when she failed to
respond to their knocking. They found
her lying across the bed with a gas tube
i her mouth. She is said to have been
r;esponrdent ror ,ome time. She leaves a
ittle boy 8 vears old.
The two cases of accidental death were
Thomas J. Broderick. 44. 1021 Euclid
street northwest, and Walter Golibart,
, who died from gas in a room at 722
l-ighth street northwest, which he had
rented the night before.
ROOSTE CASE IN HIGH COUET.
Winchester. Vn.. Nov. 26.-The West
Virginia Supreme Court of Appeals will
be called upon to decide whether a rooster
in worth 30. At the last session of the
fircuit Court of Jefferson County. at
Charlestown. judgment was entered in
the case of Hugh H. McCormick, a Inom
inent lawyer, against the Southern Ex
press Company in favor of the plaintiff
for l300 because of the death of "Big
Bill." a Cornish game rooster. "Bil1"
died while being carried from Warrenton.
Va.. to Catonsville. Md., where be was
to have been exhibited at a poultry show.
He was the most aristocratic rooster in
Jefferson County and was the cock of the
walk at the McCormick place.
HIGE HOSPITAL STANDARDS.
New York, Nov. IL-With a view to
raising the standard of hospitab through
out the country to conform to the best
afforded in the larger ctes,. the Ameri
can Hospital Aseociation voted to estab
, lish permnaneat headquarters In Phadg
SUE ON 84-YE43OLD NOTE,
Trenton, Nov. R-A promissory note
- made thirty-four years ago for ua,8.6
now totals uI$1A1.9 with the interest,
and suit to recover this amount was be
gun yesterday in the Court. of Channc=-y
by Edward Humphrepe, et Uaea
agrinst Mrs. Julia N. Wehh and Edwin4
2. Walih, of St. oIAs.
?Pottstown, Pa., Nov. I.-Whnle werk..
men were baltog hay cm the J. M. H.
Walters farm, near here, yeat'usay, a
perigscream of pain foilged the run
niag of a uitchfork. into the bay.
A scared negro emerged and tried to
escape. but after a Ilvely chae ever the
dide he was egesed in a eeram ad
0= KknD EU?.
Oms.. sweu. Whe. w.t a" now
Opp Vesmfa semes.
Galvestem, Tea.. NOT. 3.-A cargo of
dried odflsh that swelled when the
aboeme* Penhook shipped water 6pen0d
the vessels seems and sunk it. &eeard
ing to the crew of the Norwegian steam
Kremstad. which has ariv" here.
I Krestad, two days out fro the
Amores. sighted the Ponhook in a sink
Ing codition and rescued her crew on
the night of October 30 In a haysa
The Penhook was proceeding from St.
Johns for Gibraltar. Capt. Doyle and the
seven seemn of the Ponhook were lane
at Panta Delgada. Asores.
PACT ENDANGERED
Fears Entertained Carranza
Will Repudiate Protocol.
The administration Is not oe
dent that Carransa will ratify the pro
tocol signed by the American-Mcziean
Joint Commission at Atlantic City. There
also is some pessimism in Mexican cir
ele. here.
The dIficulty is expected to arise from
the addendum to the protocol which would
permit American troops to crose into Mex-.
ican territory in pursuit of bandits.
The original proposition made by Gen.
Carransa on this subject provided for
a reciprocal crossing of the border by
the military forces of both countries on
a "hot trail." but this was never carried
to treaty conclusion. The reciprocal idea
Is understood to be absent from the ad
dendun. or supplementary memorandum.
attached to the Atlantic City protocol.
The addendum was prepared, by the
American commissioners after it wam
realised that the Mexican members un
der no circumstances would consent to,
its being included in the protocol. Pro
vision for it in an addendum folowed
the example set in the negotiation of the
American-Japanese treaty. The Japanese
pgovernment would not consent to in
clusion in the treaty of the so-called
".gentlemen's agreement," which pro
vided for the restriction of Japanese im
migration to the United States.
It was held to be inconsistent with
Japanese pride and dignity for this ar
rangement to be made a part of the
treaty. but the agreement has had the
force of a treaty.
3 DROWN IN MUD
IN TRENCHES ON SOME
Will Irwin Descibes Battle Field as
"Blasted World."
(By the Internatiemal News servyle.)
New York. Nov. -"The cm y
arowed the Somne battle front 'Is like
a blasted world. Instead of the rolling
fertile plains of former months, it has
been transformed into a sea of mud.
Men are being drowned in this mud by
the score."
This graphic epitome of the greatest
battle in history was given today by Will
Irwin, the writer who returned from a trip
to the French front on the American liner
Philadelphia.
"The communication trenches are waist
deep in mud." he added. Summing up
his observations on this battle ground,
he said:
"The British completely dominate the
air. last week I saw only one German
observation balloon ascend.
"The French army Is the most demo
cratic. but yet the most effective in the
world. It will be a great mistake if
the United States models its army after
that of Germany. The British technique
is improving fast. Up to the beginning
of the Somme battle, the 'French army
was the best, but in addition to this the
French are good tutors and the British
have taken advantage of their train
ing until they are now almost equal. The
percentage of losses in an attack is de
creasing rapidly."
FIRE RAGES IN LINES HOLD.
New York. Nov. 2.-Fire started in the
hold of the Italian liner Regina DItalia
early this morning. The blaze started
in No. 2 hatchway where a cargo of wax
was being loaded.
For more than five hours fire boats
and land apparatus fought to control the
blaze before It could spread to holds
filled with ammunition. Finally it was
brought under control and the work of
loading the vessel was continued. It
was stated that she would sail at the
scheduled hour tomorrow for Italy.
BUILT FIRE ON FLOOR.
Philadelphia, Nov. 2.-BuIlding a small
fire of paper and wood on the loor ofI
an untenanted house to keep himself"
warm early yesterday morning, Thomas
Devinney. no home, was almost burned
to death. Persons passing the house no-,'
ticed smoke and notided the police of
the Sixth district.
A patrol crew pulled the unconscious
form of Devinney from the place.
CIGARNAKERS EnD Simr=.
Tampa. Fla., Nov. 2.--The cigarmakers
who have been On strike two weeks have
voted to acept the compromise terms of
fered by the manufacturers and the men
will return to work Monday.
An agreement will he signed cal~ng
for 81 per 1.O Increase on all sizes of
cigars and 50 cents per 1,600 on cheroots,
effective January 1. The strikers asked
38 per 1.600 increase on all sizes.
11T15 flON TRAIl TO DIE.
Legn, Ney. SIWilliam Henry
Jacques, a graduate of the Naval Acade
my at Annapolis and afterward with the
Bethlehemn Steel Company and president
of the Holand Submarine Beet Com
pa has been killed in a ranlroad acci
dent. It Is supposed Jasques stepped from
the right side of the er. acordng toth
American etom, and was strek by a
tratn en the other track.
Iteprt. r.. lrov. f.-co.ra.. 0. two
t cshneapratam Miss 3t ang
1wr und Miss Violet Shelts, insts to
their switehboerde and calling ai from
Jollat, foen miles away, is believed to
heer eaved tis town frome virteal de- I
struetiee by Sre early today. The ae
destreyud the pleat of the .Nesthesm Ini
neis Cereal Ce.m=pe=ax fe
tdepbesm 6 Theism
A. F. OF L. BACKS
PAY-RAISE FGHT
Mass Meeting Planned to Aid
Government Clerks'
While the American Federation Of
Isbor at its annual convention adopted
fifteen resoluons designed to aid g
ernment emlqyee, its main effort will
be centered on getting increased wage
at the coming short session, according to
labor leaders who attended the conven
lion.
John J. Deviney, secredary of the Na
tional Association for Civil Service Mlm
Ployes, said last night that the A. F~ of
U. does not expect the short session of
Congress to enact all the legislation fa
vored by organised labor for the relief
of government employes. but lihopes to
start the preliminary work on the
remedial measures and is confident that
the House and Senate will enact a bill
giving immediate aid to Federal workers
who get small salaries.
The resolutions adopted by the A. F.
of L. were introduced 'and supported by
H. M . McLartn, delegate from the Pd
eral Employes' Union, and by John J.
Deviney, representing the civil service
employes.
Bills covering all the recommendations
made at the convention will be drawn up
an4 submitted by the legislative commit
tee of the A. F. of L. Among them will
be one favoring a retirement .aw, that
wi1 not operate to reduce salaries. In
effect It puts the labor body on record
as opposing a contributory pension bill.
in that such a measure would. take from
the government employe's j.%y envelope
certain sums monthly for the retirement
fund.
Officials of the clerks' 'union., the legis
lative committee of the A. F. of I. and
other proponents of increasw.J wages will
meet this week and agree upon what
measure or measures will be unanimously
supported for enactment at the short ses
aion.
The efforts of the government workers
to organize and improve their condition
by united efforts will be simplified and
aided with the official consent and en
couragement of Cabinet officers and it is
to this work that the union officials will
address themselves at once.
Another illustration of the poor pay of
government laborers has been given Rep
CONTINUED ON PAGE TWO.
FULL DRESS BANISHED
BY EMPEROR CHARLES
qew Ruler of Dual Monarchy Cuts
Down Pomp at Court. .
Vienna, Nov. 2.-One 6f the earliest
olfcial acts of Emperior (Giarles, while
apparently trivial, Is signilcant of the
new atmosphere likely to spread over
all Europe.
This official ordained that henceforth
the morning coat will supercede full
ires on the occasion of audiences.
The custome still prevailing in many
:ourts has been the despair of Americans
who are unused to appearing In evening
clothes In broad daylight.
It is recalled here that on the occasion
of the funeral of the late King Edward,
:f England, a distinguished American
delegate in the funeral cortage, appear
ing In the early morning in a swallow
tail coat and broad expanse of front in
linen, appeared not wholly at ease in
the regalia prescribed for the austere oc
casion.
To an American fellow citizen he re
marked. "I really have not been out all
right you know."
iIRL'S ALLEGED LOOT
REACHES $20,000 TOTAL
4eld as Shoplifter. Declares She Is
Film Actress.
ipecia to The WsMingtOM eral.d.
New York. Nov. 26.-An attractive and
'ahionably attired young woman who,
he police alleged. confessed that she had
itolen clothing and other merchandise
ralued at $20,000 from department stores
n this city. is in a cell In police head
luarters today.
Following the arrest of the young
woman, who describes herself as Miss
Mlizabeth Scanlon. motion picture actress.
he police found in the apartment she oc
-upied in this city a varied assortment
of goods. Including more than a hundred
romen's hats, half a dozen handbags and
ome costly bric-a-brac.
The young woman was standing in front
f an apartment house at Sixty-ninth
itreet and Broadway when Capt. Deevy
nd detectives inforsned her she was un
ler arrest. The prisoner broke down and
ried. Capt. Deevy asserted.
In Boston she had worked as a dlm
ctress. she told the distectives. according
o their story, but she deed to come
iere and accept an engagbment offered
c her by a New York motion picture
oneern.
SHOIT HLT LIE T=E.
PhiladelphIa, Nov. R-Wh1e Mr. .
iecca V. Assager was leaving the 'Iar
tet street ferry last night she felt a tug
it her handbag. The woman torned and
:onfroSted a colored man, who refuseg
o release his hold on the pmrse. Mrs.
tes=nge screamed, but the ner
natched the bag and darted along Dela
ware avenue.
Sergt Graham and Ponoen Dogh
rty heard the woman's eries aid pm
iued the thief. After bring four ases
he bluacoats caught up with the aman.
is was taken to Central Static. sa the
ag was found in his trousers,
Uidgway,. Pa., Nov. M, Mnt
it Ciegmust, is one perso n Umk Ounty
who does not hbev it says to leaps
mony be retols atte' it h
n the vicinity of Clernsa last B
is found a lare quanliy of asepe 4
hetuk of an idtre, enardth
see, intdoding te -return and g9t thme
Iets Thusday again~ee be went wit
we herse -n in ~I7the honey he
se gend the eeshea- es rig,
-, he tdsa
Faldrul Wag. lacres
Urged by Rep. GAEvm
Repestative Galivan, of Mas
saohusot, last night wired The
Washington Herad:
"Count Me In On any bills that
will give the government clerks
what they deserve In the way of
.. annean.s
"COaditions have long demanded
iprovemaent and 0 present-day
prices serve to make it apparent
to al that higaer wages ar need
ed to meet them.
"The business world has blazed
the trail and the government
should follow. dngress will have
important bu4es== in the coming
short session, but in my' opinion
there Is no buiness more import
ant than mnaking the pay of the
av&ge government worker such
that he can live like the average
man."
Telegraph Tips
Sartoga. Cal., Nov. 26.-William G.
McAdoo, Beeretary of the Treasury, has
announced that he would buy or build a
home In California. He is at the Itome
of Senator James D. Phelan here.
Highland Falls, N. Y.. Nov. 26.-IMon
David Rose., 4 years old, a foreman
blaster. used his knowledge of dynamite
to destroy himself at Stony Point, Rock
land County. He blew himself to piece.
Middletown, N. Y., Nov. .6.-For the
first time In the history of the State Hos
pital here no turkeys will be served
Thanksgiving Day, owing to their scar
city. The 2.400 patients will eat goose and
chicken instead.
Philadelphia, Pa.. Nov. "6.-Col. Lucius
U. Maltby, One of the best known hotel
men In the United States. Is dead here.
He was 86 years old and had been in
failing health for several years. He
leaves his wife.
New York. Nov. 26.-Charged with wear
ing illegally a United States uniform.
Earl Goes. 27 years old. has been held for
the Federal grard jury by United States
Commissioner McGoldrick, in the Fed
eral Building. Brooklyn. Goes is said to
be the first person to be arrested under
the "sanctity of the uniform" clause of
the national defense act. whieb was
passed last August by Congress.
Colon. Panama, Nov. 26.-The Nor
wegian steamship Themis, which strand
ed on leaving Cristobal last Tuesday
night. has been floated. Temporary
patches were made in her hull and with
the help of auxiliary pumps the vessel
was placed in drydeck.
Tarrytown. N. Y., Nov. X.-Having
passed a restful day. Johar D. Ase'beid,
president of the Standard OIL rlimpany
of New Jersey, was said today to be
rapidly gaining strength following an
operation for appendicitis which he un
derwent Thursday evening.
Chicago. Nov. SL-Arre@W on a charge
of stealing automobiles, - in L. Thack
er, who, the police assert. has obtained
more than 250.000 through forgeries In
various parts of the country. confessed.
according to the police. that he stole
to repay victims of his forgeries.
Rio JaneM'o. Brazil. Nov. 26.-The West
ern Telegraph Company, which has been
attempting to gain a continuation of the
monopoly in telegraphic cables between
Brazil and Argentina. has lost Its case
in the courts. The supreme court ren
dered a decision in favor of the federal
union.
Los Angeles, Cal., Nov. 26.-Inspection
of proposed sItes In Los Angeles Harbor
for a submarine and naval base and avia
tion station has been begun by Rear Ad
miral J. M. Helm and four other mem
bers of the Naval Commission on Navy
Yards and Stations, who have arrived
here.
Philadelphia. Nov. 26-Dr. Laura A. C.
Hughes. of Boston. Mass., was re-elected
President of the Spanish-American War
Nurses at the annual meeting of their
organization. Ballots by mal for the presi
dent and other officers were received from
forty-three States and fifteen foreign
countries.
Stroudsburg. Pa.. Nov. 26.-To accom
mocate a party of men the Delaware Val
ley 9 o'clock train from Bushkill stopped
at a small station long enough to allow
the sportsmen to kill several pheasants.
The schedule was not interfered with and
the train arrived at East Stroudsburg
station on time.
Topeka, Nan., Nov. 26-A campaign
headed by Gov. Arthur Capper has been
started here to prevent the hanging of
William White, a negM soldier, in the
Frederal prison in ,eavenworth on No
vember 20.-White was convicted of kill.
Ing another negro In Fort Leavenworth,
and now Is under sentence of death.
Boston, Mass., Nov 26-P. H. Mullow
ney, deputy health cornmissioner, who
has been Investigating the food supply in
cold storage here, reported to Mayor Cur
ley that on November 22 there were
10. .660 pounds of m' -t in storage, not
one pound of which was Intended for
hotpe consumption. Virtually the entire
amount has been contracted for by the
entente allies..
Ladn. Nov. 26.-Senator Abdul Hamid
Zeibravi was sentenced to death by -
Inartial and killed for oonspirlng a=ainst
the Turkish government, accoring to a
Constantinople telegram to German news
papers, says a Reuter dispatch from
Austria.
New York, Nov. 26,-As a token of their
appreciation of the services of Capt. . A.
Levi., the Coast Guard cutter Senom In
eaving the Norwegian ship Uvaland and
towig her into port, the underwriter~s
are going to preslent to the eaptain and
officers a solid silver tea service tis
week.
New York, Nov. 26.-Choked to death by
ia tight collar, Robert Bownman, a years
old, was found in bed in his rieen at the
Haskell Hotel, Paterson, N. 5. Hewa
fully dressed. It Is believed that wisen he
returned to his room Friday night he was
sajued with a fainting Ulness and went to
bed without removing his elthm
New York, Nov. 2.-Arreneat are
nade and the war chests are nule for
the greatest strike the clething inty
ever has known, aO~'lrqto a
nouneement made by A. J.Shlplaoenh,
magaer of the Ainntd Ciot~g
Westers of Ameriea, Utilem gejsig an
mnigmpn as well arn mid to ha o
-~asts for the stum -' nsnu
U-BOATS LYING
. OFF U. 8. COAST
British Cruiser Warns Liner
to Be on Lookout.
(y t" I.tr.atio... News servi.)
New York, Nov. X-From the maSt
head of the British muiser Laneta',
stationed fifteen miu southeast of Needy
Hook, tonight, came the wireless Warn
Ing that German sanbsgrines were lying
off the American coast. The radio di
rected that the commanders of all ves
sels flying the fag of one of the entente
allies keep a sharp watch for U-boats
and to show no more lights than neces
sary. Furthermore, they were Warned to
avoid the regular trans-Atlantie lanes as
much asxposible.
Capt. Barman. of the liner Kroontand,
which arrived in port today, declared
that he had received the warning but
had seen no submarines. The -Philadel
phia arrived today also. The passengers
said that the life boats were swung out
ready for instant use Saturday night and
that they had received the warning.
Prominent Germans in Washington de
lared tonight that they believed the
warning inspired by the British insur
ance interests In order that insurance
rates might be raised. A State Depart
ment oflicial expressed doubt that the
warning was based on fact. He declared
that there was no proof that Germany
has considered more sporadic operations
on this side of the Atlantic.
The report, alleged to have emanated
from British sources, that two German
war submarines are approaching the
North American coast was believed in
'German quarters here yesterday to have
been put out for.the purpose of infuene
ing marine insurance rates.
It was said unofficially that this goy
eminent has no evidence indicating that
Germany has considered more than spo
radio operations on this side of the At
lantic. .
"WITE SLAVES" SENT
INTO 111H AMERICA
New York Probe Bares Further Details
of Vice Ring.
sedisi to The Washtssten Heaid.
New York. Nov. 26.-Further informa
tion about the alleged "white slave"
clearing house operated on the East Side
will be obtained, it is believed in the
district attorney's office, from David
Parrish. alias Dave Siberia, who has
consented to tell all he known about
traffic for immoral purpeses. Assistant
_tttrney amk-4&Aharge of the
Inveigation for Mr. Stana, will ques
tion Parrish about the clearing house
phase of the traffic tomorrow.
That such place exists. as told by the
woman known as Bertha White. is be
lieved by the investigators on informa
tion volunteered by other women. Girls
are said to be shipped to all the large
cities of the United States, and even to
South America. by this clearing house.
'Mr. Smith has stat.d that the district
attorney's office has reliable Information
that 200 girls were shipped to Detroit by
the clearing house, seventy-five each to
Buffalo. New Orleans and other cities.
He asserts that girls have been sent to
Buenos Ayres since the investigation
began.
SOFIA REPORTS DEFEAT
OF ALLIED ASSAULTS
Italians Declared Unable to Capture
Village of Tarnovo.
(By the Internatieal News Service.)
Sofia, Nov. 26.-The repulse of allied at
tacks both east and west of Monastir,
and the complete defeat of Italian at
tempts to capture the village of Tarnovo
and denial of the French announcement
of the capture of Bobrimir are contained
in an official statement given out by the
war office today. The statement follows:
"We repulsed an attack by an Italian
battalion against the village of Tarnovo,
west of Monastir. The Italians left a
large quantity of war supplies in front
of our positions.
The French statement of November 23
that the French had captured the village
of Bobrimir Is, incorrect. The French
have never entered this village.
"Enemy forces advancing in the out
skirts of Grunishte were driven back.
On the rest of the front there were ar
tillery actions."
RULED SITEEN WHITE SLAVES.
New York. Nov. 26.-What police of
fIcials declare to be tihe very depth of
white-slave tyranny and manipulation
has been reached by Max Axelrod, who
confessed todat before his trial that he
had forced sixteen women to seek the
streets of New York to do his bidding
and turn in to him the revenue obtained
through their shame.
Even Axerod's wife charged him with
forcing her to sell herself for his pro
it. A young married woman with two
children was also a victim.
Axetrod confessed that it had been his
practice to place his women slaves in
crowded tenements on the Est Side,
where they could he visited without
exciting great suspicion. He declared
there was a regular business ageement
made with young men to deliver 17-year
old girls to him for' PSn
STORM WBECEB ZEPPELIN.
Amsterdam, Nov. 21-Travelere reaching
here today reported that a-super-Zeppelin
was wrecked In a atorm near Maims and
that only one of its crew of twenty-eight
men escaped death, The airship, it was
said, was on its way frin Friedrick
shaven to Wilhebaven~ on its trial
Light when blown out of its ourse.
Binghamton, N. T., Nov. 26-Mrs.
Rmsell OHara,_wife of a New Yorik
school teacher, anad her twin daughters
were burned to death early today when
fire destroyed their nottage near Che
nango bridge.
The bodies woest found this morn
tog, those of the am il huddled
~beet the~ igg~s wgg
' and' f
man 'e A9* ... s'ra... nweas
Vestim Or Vimese.
Iancaster. Pa., Nov. K-A ma elairs
lug to be a. Smith, of Iemst . had
two dASn 01lis from death to Celambia.
me wa toemd by a pIlcer.,n Zytog m3
emaels in the street. nearly dead from
em. He reoeved proper at-gadnn at
the jai Later in the day the leke
was em fre and its fie tomaes were
nearly roasted beforE the isaqes wee
extinguished.
It was learned that Smith had ncd
dentany started the blase by throw.s
a cigarette stump on a blanket.
SUFFRAGIST DIES
Mrs. Inez Milholland Boisse
vain Succumbs.
(my the laternatieasl News service.)
Los Angeles. Cal., Nov -.-The family
of Mrs. Ines Milholland Boissevain, who
died, late Saturday night at the Good
Samaritan Hospital. after a long and
vaiant fight against secondary anemia,
made preliminary arrangements today
for the funeral rites for the young
wo-an who was known as the idol of
suffrage.
The body will be taken East tomorrow.
After services in Dr. Parkburst's Church
in New York. where her father in a dea
con, Interment will follow In the Adiron
dacks.
Telegrams of sympathy and condolence
were received by the grief-stricken par
ents and husband of the suffrage worker
from her admirers In all parts of the
country today.
Mrs. Bolsevain. who was born in New
York City, August 6, 1W. was educated
at the Comstock School in New York
City, at the Willard School in Berlin
and entered Vamar in M15. After her
graduation in 19M she entered the New
York University Law School from which
she was graduated in 1M12 with the de
gree of LT. B. Later she became a law
student in the office of James W. Oe
borne. New York City.
In March. 1312. she appeared with Mr.
Osborne as counsel for Doy Young, a
C'hinese on trial for murder. He was ac
quitted. Shie figured prominently in the
defense of notorious New York crtminals.
Shortly after the outbreak of the war.
Mrs. Boissevain went to Italy to report
the situation there for a New York news
riper. She was a delegate on the Ford
peace ship. She married Eugene Boisse
vain, a wealthy Nollader. in London in
1913. She returned to ths country In 1914
and continued her practice of law and
suffrage activities.
"W OMAN F YSTERY"
KIS SMY IN li
Telephone Girl Makes Vain Efort to
Save Her.
(By the Internatienal News Service.)
New York. Nov. .-Mrs. Florence M.
Sibel. 24 years old, of Schenectady, N. Y..
shot herself In the head in her room at
the Strand Hotel here this afternoon and
died an hour later in Bellevue Hospital
without having regained consciousness.
The woman was known in the hotel as a
"woman of mystery." The only h'nt of
explanation the police could find was
contained In a letter found in her room
signed "Mother" and indicating the
woman was concerned in divorce pro
ceedings.
The only person in the hotel who had
even a speaking acquaintance with Mrs.
Sibel was Miss Ellen Scanlon. the tele
p tone switchboard operator.
This afternoon Mrs. Sibel called the
switchboard on the phone in her room
and said:
"Good-by, Ellen dear. And say good
by to every one for me."
Miss Scanlon, catching the note nf
tragedy in the woman's voice. hastened to
Mrs. Sibel's room on the eight floor.
As she opened the door, her friend stond
in the middle of the room with the muzzle
of a revolver pressed against her fore
head. Miss Scanlon screamed and leared
forward, but the "woman of mystery"
was too quick for her and pulled the
trigger.
GRAY-ROBED TAGORE IS wRE.
Philadelphia. Nov. .--Serenolr calm
and oblivious to the comments on the
peculiarity of his attire, Sir Rabindra
nath Tagore, Bengali wizard of poetry
and the 112 Nobel prizeman, arrived in
Philadelphia yesterday. Iat night he
read some of his poetry at a private re
cital In the Ogonts School for Girls.
Explaining that he was reared in a
Brahmin family, though himself a sub
scriber to no creed or sect. Mr. Tagore
seemed dissatsfed that "churchmen in
the United States pay ministers to think
for them." He said all religion must be
freed of lists of creeds and explanations
of dogmas. Christianity is especially
weak in this regard, he said.
BETRAYED WHEN BARED,
Bridgeton, N. J., Nov. 2.-A young
Polander was lodged in the county jail
in this city a few days ago charged with
stealing chickens for food .in the woods
where he was staying most of the time.
Iast night the fellow was ordered to
take a bath. He refu- - and was finally
stripped. In Klane's a -5 the offneers
found S I ill0. Omaais believe he
may be one of the gang who have recent
ly been holding up hank wineeangeru.
GIVEN HAUD-CAZVED rCa3nraT.
New York, Nov. K.-Busneeg .assa.
and empoea of Thaes A. Bem... sent
to his offie yeSterday a hand-earveid
cabinet said to be worth appgs.eass
The cabinet Is an emat reproductica
of the fameou piece of weod carving
which the invehoradmired whea on his
trip to Pdrls a flew yeare age. Knowing
of his admiration der the amnt his
friends seat an ezpert weed esre,~ is
Partsto mnake a copy.
Amsterdam. Nov. 3.-The Ceamh4
Gapette prints a statement cl~ame that
.the deportations of B.ahlan warkmen to
Germny~ is a fer*= St asamuty, addhsg
that, as a msatter of en they winl not
he empieyed to im war ma~toal
Ti.' .pinmet imaraar wil bea.
-edm to their pene iabse, $hak
*amammd th- amedenn. as
GERMAN ARIES
FORM JUNCTION
ACROSS DANE
Knockout Blow Delt Rina
nia by Cooperation of Falk
enhayn and Mackensen
CLOSE IN ON BUCHAREST
Handful of Defenders Sacrfice Them
selves Vainly to Stay Relent
leis Advance.
4By the laernatlofal News servisela
London. Nov. 26.-*We are in touch
with the forces that crossed the Dan
ube.'.
In this brief. concise form, the Bertin
war office this afternoon announced that
the knock-out blow to Rumania has been
dealt. The junction between Gen. von
Falkenhayn. sweeping down upon Bucha
res' from the north and west, and Field
Marshal ion Mackensen, forming the
southern rm of the giant Teuton "nut
cracker." has come to pass.
Losing no time after his crossing of
the river Mackensen in a swift dash
pushed forth to the gates of Alexandria,
thence he sent ca alry detachments
northwestward to meet the "scouts" del
egated by Von lalkenhayn. There was
no ceremonial greeting, no enthusiastie
handelasping and cheers of "will kern.
men."
A force of Rumanians was there te
spoil the merrymaking. Half way be
tween Alexandria and RosIor. a poiat
some nineteen miles northwestward.
thes troops, after weeks of continual
retreat, isolated from the bulk of King
Ferdinand's army. threw thenselves inte
the relentless wheels of a history-iak.
ing dual steam roller.
Bar Throagh Nation.
The Cntact thus established between
the two Teutow commanders places a bar
of iron and steel through Rumania frt
the Treasylvanria Alps down to the Dae.
ubs.
The "nut erackers." after standing itw
a brief period almost vertically west Of
Bucharest, a in of 153 miles, is new
contracting for its final haul, Both
"armns" .are swinging swiftly toward the
Rumania capital. The latest word beem
Berlin, contained in tonight's oncial to.
port, says:
"In Wallachia our advance wolegesnon
as planned."
The earlier statemest to" at IertS
headway made tryhe Toas , isne
center. Sweeping down trat the Tnn
sylvania foothills along the Alt River.
Falkenha.'s nrthrn amy C.pture&
the Important railway city of Ranmicu
Vaicca, about forty-seven mie north at
Slatina. the Teuton pivotal point in the
drive on Bucharest. Further to the north
east, In the heights north of Curtea-do.
Arges, where Falkenhayn is trying to
outnank the Rumanian Campolung ar
tilery, the Teutons met bitter resistance
Crue Battle Raging.
One of the most cruel see-saw battles
of the war is raging here. Slowly but
teadiy the Rumanians are giving way
on this front, ylding to the Irresistible
will of strategy and numbers.
Indicative of the Rumanian bravery
and heroism is the statement in today's
German war office report that , Ruman
Ian cavalry division 'offered hattie" east
of the Lower Alt. It was reuis.ed. the
report adds. and the Tputon cavalry
continued its advance.
The region due west *.' Bucharest
where any further rsistane by the
Rumanians is impovsilK In the face of
the stagcering odds In numbers of men
and guns, "the road Is occupied by flee
ing columns," in the words of the Berlin
s tatemnent. "Their ad ance," It is added.
"is marked by burning towns."
In telling of the crossing of the Itn.
1he the German statement says the riiver
has risen high because of thaw.
'.arge re-enforcements have been re
ceived by the Russo-Rumanian army in
the Dobrudfa. Berlin reports a repulse
of an attack hy infantry aided by rfu.
sian naval forces in the Black Sea upon
Mackensen's right wing.
SEVEN PERSONS PERISH
IN CAULDRON OF FIRE
Entire Family Wiped Out When Home
Burns Down.
tBy she luternatioetl News qerrice.4i
Cap? May. N. J.. No-. o-re of un
determin'i origin. this morning wite4
out the famib of Peven. of I-wis Wil
son. In West Cape May.
The dead are: leis Wi'son. aged 44:
Margaret Wilson. his wif t'. atherine
Gibbon, ared 6R., mother of the V. ife: Ger
itrude Wilson, 11; Thomas Wilson. 9. Ly
man Wilson. C. and Beatrice Wilson. L
and a half.
The lire aroused the neghblre but none
arrived soon enough to save Ives or
even to see any of the Wilsons. Recover
ed from the ruins were the charred bodies
of the three adults, but no trace was
left of the children.
Nothing remains standing of the house
except a part of the brick chimney which
was In the center of the building. There
was no flee apparatus in the village.
XAXIIG CREAPER GAB0LEE.
Bradford, Pa.. Ifor. i.-The cheapep
and Warren osunties continues to greer
rapidly, eight new gasoline plants have
been erected In these two enmote with
in ten momth. The eretion of these
new plants, In addition to the bc'e
of the capacity of mnany, has greatly in
creased productioa of natural gas gas.
Des and today It 15 s tma that 4,55
gallons of esa -hadgasoline are be
lag monufataeidaily In MicKean Oane
tyalm
WvmT @5 WOEEK AT EmmT.
L-aidon, N~ov. "G.---Women sheuld yeas
white hats on -dark a hls in order that
itver. of vehicles may be able te se
them moore easily. 'Th'.s suggestion, in
which the jury ocrred, was made hy
the Westminster coroner at as inesol
.ew the body of a wesena who had boe
sue evr and re a ss te 4es
eslen b. UaamaU
