! ... ..... o. ^ ^ A, C?r^ ^ aO TO "From Prem to Home 7
/i *11* ti inr+tm sbt^t ! m *?*>*'?'?' >
U/l |v ^JUvUlUJW JDAvlX# 1? ?'
' ~ J VsM I T l / <w?m Set Cfreulatloa. Month off Orfofcor.
CLOSING HEW YORK STOCKS PAGE 16. ^ 1*,*? Da,,y Atertfe, 70.0011 Saaday. 6W1.
______ WASHINGTON, D. C.f MONDAY, NOVEMBER 27, 1916.?TWENTY PAGES. ONE GENT.
ROMANIANS FORCED
TO GIVE UP LINES
ON THE RIVER ALT
Teutonic Campaign Developing
Rapidly. With a Converging
k Drive on Bucharest.
ENEMY HELD IN CHECK
ON THE NORTHERN FRONT
Russian Advance in the Dobrudja
Apparently Has Been Brought
to a Halt. i
j
The i eutonic campaign again-1
Rumania is developing rapidly
with a converging drive on j
Tlucharest from three directions;
in progress. The immediate
threat to the capital seenb to he
greatest on the south wot. where
the invaders have approached toj
within less than titty miles after!
Field Marshal von Mackensen had;
forced the passage of the Danube
at two points and effected a junction
with the armies of Gen. von
Falkenhayn. which are pressing
rapidly eastward after having
broken the Rumanian resistance
on the lower \lt.
Rumanians Flanked on Alt.
The rapid Teuton'o advance southeast i
lit ?*raiov:i turned th#> flank of the Ah !
position, as did the Danube crossings, j
These factors, together with the con
tinued pressure on the northern end of j
the line, also theoretically outflanked,
have now resulted in the Rumanian abandonment
of the Alt line. Bucharest announced
this today, reporting also a Ru- f
inanian retirement a little to the east of :
the Topolog river, a tributary of the- Alt j
on the east. !
This retreat apparently places the important
town of Rimnik. on the railroad
from Craiova to fleimannstadt, in Gen.
von Falkenhayn's hands.
In Check on North.
The threat on the north and northwest
from the border passes east of the Alt j '
still is being held in check by the Russo- ;
Rumanian troops, and entente military]'
writers assume that the Russians are ] j
sending lurther forces to help out the j :
Rumanians defending the more im- j
"mediate menace farther south.
Sofia today gives some details of the]
? rossing of the Danube The crossing at j
Zimnitza was made by Bulgarian troops,
who are said to have captured a large
quantity of grain in the town. The Ger- .
mans effected their crossing near the
mouth of the Alt, occupying Islacz.
In TVthrmlin. north of the Constanza- i
Tchernavoda line, the Russian advance j'
appears to have come to a halt. The '
Bulgarian war office announces that the
hostile forces which had been attacking :
have now intrenched before the Bulgar- 1
ian positions.
Rumanians Admit Retirement
From Positions on the Alt
ULTHAKKST. November 1*7. via London.
11:31 a.m.?The Rumanians have
retired from tin lim ??f the River Ait.
the war office announces.
The Rumanians also have retired a
little to the east of the Topolog river.
The Topolog is a tributary of the Alt.
into which It flows at a point about forty
miles south of the Hungarian border, below
Rothenthurm pass, it runs parallel to
the Alt over most of its course, about i
ten mile.- east of that river. This sec- |
tion of the front is northwest of Bucharest.
and its abandonment by the .
Rumanians was forced bv the Au.stro- i
?Jerman nb'.ance farther south, flank-;
in< the Alt lire
Rumanians Are Driven Beyond
River Topolog, Berlin Reports
Jly tlie I'rv--..
UKKL1N. November 17 < by wirele.-:to
.Say vill->. -bermari and Austro-Hun-'
krarian troops, under command of Lieut, j
'Jen. Krafft von I nimensingen. advanc-l
leg on both side- of the River Alt. in I
Wallachia. yesterday, pushed back thej
Rumanian fore. s beyond the Topolog,
river, says the official statement issued
by the Herman army headquarters.
Alexandi , Rumanian town forty-'
seven mil. - -outhw* st of Bucharest.'
was captured yesterday by Teuton
forces.
The Rumanian force.- which had l? tired
from tin Innribe town ?>f Orsova
were push'-d farther to the southeast
> by the A U - tl lerrr;;. lr?>ops. the, -Tate- ;
has now hi by the approach |
uf oth? r 'IVUI..U forces in the I'-ai. Its;
this i' i tor olfi'-ers and 1.2??o nifu:
have bttii '-aptured hy rh Teutons,
who also have taker.", three cannon and
a great quantity ?.f munitions.
1
Von Falkenhayn Is Confident j
Teutons WiH Take Bucharest
J'.jr t!,.- !'r.
1IJ-:I1MANNSTAI>T. Transylvania, No- i
veiriber via H<-r!ia and wire^ss to.
Say ville. N V. November 27.?At a]
luncheon which (a n. von Falkenhayn, J
commander of the for* on the nor th- [
ern Rumanian front. Kiive today to a J
small Krouii of neutral correspondents |
lie remarked to the Asso< iated Press !
representative that, "although nothing
In this world is so certain that one
date predict anything with safety,"
Bucharest will be an uncorn fortahle
place for any one to be in when the
tkrmaim get their guns trained on It."
Although <Jen. von Falkenhayn declined
absolutely to commit himself to
any prediction as to when this might
occur, and even questioned the purely
military advantage of possession of
Bucharest, with its thousands to feed,
when the same result might be accomplished
gradually decimating the Rumanian
army, he left not the slightest
doubt in the minds of his hearers that
he considered it a possibility of the
immediate future.
Gen. von Falkenhayn was reticent as
i to the probable length of the Rumanian
' (Continued on Second Page.) I
bifek^x MJtik- .
FIGHTING RESULTS I
IN HEAVY LOSSES
Outcome of Battle Between, 1
Villa Bandits and De Facto
Troops Not Yet Known.
j
CLASH AT CHIHUAHUA CITY ^
By the Associated Press.
Jl'ARKZ. Mexico.. November 27.?The s
final result of the fighting between the s
tie facto grovernmcnt forces defending t
Chihuahua City and Francisco Villa's t
bandit army was unknown at the Amer- $
ican border early today. Wire commu- a
nication between Chihuahua City and b
.fu?ri'? Y.rAl/Mi nrpunmijltlv hv hnildits ! ;i
I"
Saturday, had not been restored. Car- w
ranza officials here e press the convic- a
tion that Villa's efforts to take the city n
had been defeated, although the last
news received directly from the battle- | \\
field indicated that the bandits, during it
tin- lighting Saturday, carried the con- jo
lliet into the city proper, and that they j it
wer?- finally ejected after heavy losses | h
by both sides. | ?;
* i e
Saturday's Fighting.
An account of the lighting early Sat- I n
urday from an Associated Press repre- j fj
sentative at Chihuahua City was de- j j,
livered by courier at Marfa, Tex., last ) s?
night. ;
The battle Saturday started soon after ' ^
the telegraphic communication with '
lie. i.-.iu ,.i?r Ttw. wir.' rlowi: :it
]<? o'clock a.m., and the battle was
raging by 1 1 :*>? a.m. The bandits' att:i?-k
covered the entire southern front,
'.vith flanking operations to tlm east
and west. The most desperate lighting /
occurred on Zarro avenue within theji'
city. The bandits threw th< ir best \ oi
equipped forces against the intrench- ia
nients, which had been thrown up!
across this street, and street fighting;1'
followed. j a:
The Villa forces made every possible j tj
effort to take these intrenchments.
which were the key to the defenses of'a:
the city proper. ! ji
The de facto infantry met these j w
charges with counter-charges, and the j
battle waged back and forth in this j0
narrow street until the Villa bandits 1
were driven out of the mouth of the i rn
avenue onto the plains, where they I ^
were raked with machine-gun fire from j
the housetops and the artillery fire ;'r
which had supported effectively the in-j a
fantry efforts. |ti
The account also said that at) auto- ,
mobile in which Villa was directing the |
bandit attack was riddled by the lire ; is
of the government troops and the ban-j ei
dit leader was forced to flee on horse- i .
back. _ J18
Report of Heavy Losses. j t
The losses on both sides are reported i j"*
to be heavy, as some of the fighting I si
had been almost nanci-to-nand en- j
counters. The wounded who fell out-!*11
side of tre city could not be rescued 1 tt
from the "no man's land" beyond the 1"
first line trenches because of the? firing
by both the bandits and the govern- ir
ment forces. The wounded who fell a,
within the city are being cared for at ,
the municipal hospital. Women are cf
serving as volunteer nurses in this and j
other hospitals of the city. i
Villa Officer Wounded.
loiter advices received by Carranza j
officials here from a station north of ! ,
oi
Chihuahua City said that Jose Ynez \ t
Salazar. Villa's second in command, ! .,
i 01
was seriously wounded Saturday. This w
report also stated that the fighting ! v<
continued late Saturday. ? .
.American army officers at El Paso I ^
received a report last night that Villa I
released the prisoners in Chihuahua!
prison before he was driven our of the ?J
city. Carranza oliicials said tiiey had
received no such advices. u
' f)
Official Advices Received Here. jt
n
official advices received here today
say that Saturday night the Vifla S1
fdm? : ttnrk 11: i_r < *hih?i:t Hum h:uJ .1
t rated into the city and established a . r>:
line of trenches. Prisoners from the ^
penitentiary were liberated, the dis- j it
patch said, and the guards joined the i Tl
Villa forces. News dispatches have ^
later reported the repulse of the at- i
ta< kers, hut nothing olficial on that ' ^
feature had reached here today. I
REPORTS NIGHT ATTACK
BY FRENCH ON SOMME'
Berlin Announces the Enemy Was ! ^
Repulsed in St. Pierre |t<
Vaast Wood. j*
j"
HKKldN, November 27, b> wireless to ^
Savvlllc, N. V.- French forces last nitfht
si
attacked the Herman positions in the
southern portion of St. Pierre Vaast U
wood, on the Kiver Somme front, says ,J
today's Herman olticial statement, hut fi
they were repulsed by the Herman ar- ,t
tillcrv and machine Ktin fire.
h
Paris Reports Quiet Night. fi
PAKIS, November 27.?The French '*
ofticial announcement 011 the progress ^
of hostilities on the French front at ^
the war office this afternoon reads as *}
follows:
"Thcrh li?. ^ thi- Minfnmapw r> , n _ n
nonuding at various points on the J tl
Sonirne front and iri the sectors of j li
houaumont ami Vuux. The night b
passed quietly on the remainder of the 1<
front. o
"A gr??up of French aviators Jast T
night bombarded the aviation fields at 1
duizancourt and Matignv. The mis- t.
siles thrown down reached their mark."
British Artillery Active.
I,< ?NI>uN. November 27.?f'Our artillery
was active last night in the neighborhood
of Da Hassee," says today's 1
official report from the Franco-Helgian
front. "Otherwise there is nothing to ,
report."
, K
Eight Sites From Which to Choose. J1
DOS ANGELES, Cal., November 27.? j
Hear Admiral J. M. Helm, head of the v
commission on naval yards and naval
stations, took under consideration to- c
day data assembled In the inspection j
of eight proposed sites for submarine ?
and aviation stations near this city, t
One of the sites visited was Catalina r
island, about twenty-five miles off the a
California coast. The commission will e
depart late today on the destroyer x
Paul Jones for San Diego, where a t
number of sites will be Inspected. h
<ii
BLOW SAFE OPEN;
GET I119IN CASH
feggmen Also Take $190 in
Checks From Moreland
Bros.' Store,
/iUFFLED EXPLOSION HEARD
Safe-blowers last night visited the
tore of Moreland Bros., 1113 15th
treet. blew the combination lock from
he safe without making noise enough
r> alarm neighbors, and carried off
1 1in cash and rheeks* fnr various
mounts aggregating 5190. ^ neighor
heard a slight noise in the store
bout S:30 o'clock. She said the noise i
as such as would have been made by j
box being overturned and she paid :
0 attention to it.
It is the belief of the police that the
ork was done by professional yeggten,
possibly the ones who, the night
f April 30 last, blew open the safe i
1 the store of P. J. Chaeonas, Louis- <
ma avenue and !)th street, and stole ,
2,500 in cash and $1,000 worth of jew- j
Iry.
Arthur Moreland, member of the firm,
cached the store this morning shortly
fter 5:30 o'clock to open the place for
le day's business, and found the safe
ad been blown open and robbed. As
:?on as he discovered what had been
one he summoned the police. Inspec- ;
?r 'Irani, chief of detectives, visited
ie store and made art examination of
*e safe.
Was the Work of Experts.
Infectives Grant. Armstrong. Mullen,
'Brien and Cornwell were detailed to.
ivestigate the robbery, and the police j
f the second precinct also are taking 1
hand it it. They are all of the opinion/
lat the work was done by men who
re experts at handling explosives, and j
te small amount of noise made, they
ssert, shows that the yeggmen knew
1st what quantity of the explosive j
as necessary to throw the tumblers
i me iocK.
A heavy instrument, probably a ham-'
,er or hatchet, was used to break the
nob off the lock, a handle of such an I
istrurnent being found on the roof of .
shed during the course of the inves- ! .
iration of the affair.
In order to gain access to the prem- | I
es it was necessary for the robbers to :
iter the yard of the adjoining preines.
climb a brick wall and drop a j
stance of ten feet into the store yard. :
here is no rear outlet to the yard, it !
squired considerable force to knock a I
tnel from the rear door, the police j
iid, and it may have been the noise \ '
ade in breaking the door that was !
sard by the neighbor.
Having knocked the knob off the safe, '
<e yeggrnen proceeded to soap the !
ck and put in the explosive, firs? j
king precaution against the noise of :
le explosion being great enough to ;
tract persons from the outside. This ,
as done by gathering several old
* -I Vi n rn
>ais ana sacas awn ;
<ainst the sale with an office stool. '
he coats and sacks were Mown from .
ic safe, and the stool was shattered, j
Hod Light Lunch First.
Pieces of cheese bearing the imprint j
f teeth in them were found on the floor j
ear the safe, suggesting to the police that
ne of the yeggmen partook of the cheese !
hile his companion was preparing the
jap preparatory to igniting the explos
e, and the imprints, the police say, may ;
rove to be a valuable clue to the iden- '
ty of one of the robbers.
Another possible clue was furnished in
to finding of the gold bridge of a pair
f spectacles. Tin bridge did not belong ,
> members of the grocery firm or any of
leir employes, the pofice were told, and '
may have belonged to one of the yeggten.
A number of pennies dropped by i
le men were found in the rear of the
ore.
Payment of the checks taken from !
te safe has been stopped at the banksn
which they were given, and the police
ave asked the police of other cities to j
ssist them in an effort to capture the!
len. A stranger was seen loitering about :
te neighborhood last night and the police !
ave a description of him.
0 USE HYDRO-AIRPLANES
IN NORTH POLAR REGIONS
_ j
Loald Amundsen, Explorer, Goes to j
New York to Purchase
Two Machi lies.
NEW YOKK. November -7.?Koald j
mundsen. south polar explorer, is here !
> buy two hydro-airplanes for use in j
i- 1 Vt 1 "S expedition into north polar
gions, 11^ said on his arrival at this
ort today on the 1 vanish steamer
reredick VIII, from < 'openhagen. The
ying machines, he said, would be conLrucied
so as to travel over smooth
? as well as on water and will be
sed for interior explorations starting
roin the ship whieh will carry his
arty. The vessel will he constructed,
e said, so that the planes can rise
roin and land on its decks. The exlorer
added that another purpose of
is visit here was to buy food supplies
r>r his trip in this country because
rices in Kurope were prohibitive.
Amundsen said his ship would be
rady for launching in March, and that
he work of equipping her would begin
ri July. 1917, but that no effort would
e made to get away before the fol>wing
year, so he might have plenty
ftime to complete his preparations,
'he start was originally planned for
917, but was delayed on account of
he war.
TO FIGHT FOR MORE PAY.
federal Employes to Concentrate |
first on Nolan Minimum Wage Bill, j
Government employes, aided by the '
euerai u?nv>n auu uiuur oranizations,
will make a determined
ight for increased wages at the comrig
session of Congress, according to
J. M. Mcl^arin, president of the union,
vho has just returned from the scslons
of the convention of the Amerian
Federation of Labor in Baltimore.
Efforts will be concentrated at first
n the Nolan minimum wage bill, as
his affects a class of employes who
iced increases more than any other,
ccordlng to Mr. McLarin, but every
ffort will te made for a general revision
of salaries upward. He said that
he pMMpodfc looked very bright to
dm for o yoral Increase.
I
>
V\J A
\ \\ \ \\ \\ / v\\Vw *
mvxW m
m
M'
IN
Av
SHIPS NEARING PORTS
FEAR GERMAN U-BOATS
Two Submarines Said to Have
Broken Through Cordon of Allies'
Warships Off Coast.
_ : ; ?- -: I
15v tie: A?.s>><.iared I'r?*sw.
NEW YORK, November 27.?Appre- I
hension is felt, in shipping circles here,
in view of the large number of passen- j
ger and freight steamships nearing this ]
port and the reported proximity of j
German submarines. Rumors of sev- i
eral days to the effect that two German
submarines have broken through
the allied cordon and were on their
way to the Atlantic coast received olli- .
rial recognition in the general warning'
sent out hfv t night hi' the British
cruiser Lancaster. The warship, stationed
fifteen miles southeast of Sandy
Hook, cautioned all steamships living ,
the flags of the. entente allies to beware
of hostile subsea boats on this'
sicle of the Atlantic. Th? British wireless
read:
"Cernuui submarines may bo met '
;uiy wlicre in the Atlantic, especially;
west of sixty degrees west. Show no
unnecessary lights. Avoid ail trade:
routes and converging points."
Vessels May Not Leave Port.
Not since the l"-53 entered Newport;
harbor. October 7. and on the follow- j
Ing day sank several British merchant
vessels, has there been so much un- ;
easiness in marine quarters. It is be- i
lieved that the merchant vessels of the
ullies now loading in this'port will not
venture out until the British government
gives assurance th/it the seas are j
clear and the danger remote.
Among the steamships belonging to
tin- allied countries dm to arrive this
week are the Cunard line steamers La-j
conia and 1'annonia, with passengers,
from Liverpool and London, respec- :
lively; tin- Anchor liner Tuscania, from j
(Jlasgow; the White Star liner Lap- I
land, from Liverpool; the I>uca I/Aos-j
ta. from ( Jenoa and the Hermudian, ,
from Bermuda. The freighters <iue include
the Celtic and Bovic of the White J
Star line.
Almost a score of French and British I
merchantmen have sailed from this |
port within the last two days, and all
of the vessels are within the zone
which is supposed to he most dangerous.
A number of lurg<- steamers also are
approaching Boston and Philadelphia.
No Submarines Sighted.
Six steamships arriving here today
from Karopean and West Indian ports reported
they caught wireless warnings
yesterday to keep a watch for belligerent
submarines, but all brought word that
no craft of that typo had been observed.
The Incoming vessels took such precautions
as shrouding the lights during
darkness and having the lifeboats swung
out. The arrivals today included the
American liner l^ipland from Liverpool,
the Italian ship Duca d'Aosta and Napoli
from Mediterranean ports, the Danish
vessel Frederik VIII from Scandinavian
ports, the Brazos from Porto Rico and
the Hermudian from Hermudu.
The Frederik VIII put in at Kirkwall,
Scotland, where the Rritish authorities
removed the mails. She brought here
Roald Amundsen, explorer of south polar
regions, who said he came on a private
mission; IJeut. Asger Kasjean of the
Danish army, who plans to purchase
American airplanes, and Manuel Calderon,
Cuban minister to Norway.
Conservation
of Paper
Every citizen is called upon to see
that not a pound of paper is wasted.
Demand from every clerk that any
unnecessary wrapping of packages
be dispensed with.
If you have no further use for today's
newspaper save it for the
school children's playground fund.
Call Main 6026 and ask for the
nearest public school to your home
and the old papers will be sent for. '
. i
j | w ^
va \\\ ^
W'V . X v;',
foreseeiuble
arnilt ciirmamnpc
nuuui uuumnmnLU
Administration Circles Believe
Germany Is About to Evade
Her Promises.
THINK HUGE FLEET READY
I
Official statements that there are no
sound reasons for believing that the
I'nited States is about to have another;
serious clash with Germany over sub- :
marine questions have not altered the I
steadily overhanging fear in admin is- i
t ration circles that the future does not !
hold out as much promise as many j
predict and that President Wilson's last ,
four years in otlice are going to 1>?- \
full of trouble for himself and the
country.
The !?; is for the belief that tier
many moans to evade promises to this !
country and shortly begin upon a iner- I
ciless campaign of submarine destruc- |
tion of the commerce of her enemies
is hard to place. There is nothing !
beyond the known feeling that German
public opinion is slowly but surely
veering around to the idea that in
yielding to the United States Germany
set aside her greatest and most effective
weapon against Kngland and
her allies; that the German government
has long felt that the submarine
is worth more to her than any other
arm of her fighting equipment, and that
for months she lias been building an
enormous fleet of these underwater
craft ready for whatever policy that
may be later decided on.
Fleet to Be Ready Soon.
Tic- idea that will not down, despite
official hints to the contrary, is that
Germany is nearing the time when this
great submarine fleet will be ready for
starting upon a gigantic campaign,
and that this campaign will bring
many irritating and aggravating questions
as to German disregard of her
promsies to the United States that
will lead to the long-talked-of break In
diplomatic relations.
German official and public opinion,
while more friendly to the United
States than at any time since the war
began, is strongly inclined to the
view that the only way Germany will
be able to bring England t?? ner Knees i
is through the steady destruction of J
her food and ammunition supplies. If
England begins to feel the pinch of
hunger her statesmen and people, according
to what is said t-o be German
opinion, will begin to look with favor
upon peace negotiations, and such
negotiations are what Germany wants.
Germany Depends on U-Boats.
The submarine is the weapon Germany
depends upon to do this job. Each
additional campaign of the submarines
is looked upon to bag more and more
vessels containing food supplies for the
allies.
It is not believed that Germany will
defy the United States. Her plan will
be to permit her submarine commanders
to go as far as possible?destroy
and explain afterward, if explanations
must be made. Each succeeding foray
of submarines upon commerce is expected
to grow in intensitj-, and
eventually reach the point when explanations
are no longer to be accepted
by the United States. By that time,
though. Germany hopes to have frightened
England and her allies into consideration
of peace that will bring
about terms at least as satisfactory to
Germany as to the allies. The longer
peace negotiations are delayed the
worse will be the terms Germany must
meet, her people are said to realize. So
the submarines must be pushed to the
limit now..
EXPECTS SHARP POT=
ON RAILWAY BILLS
Senator Gallinger Predicts Little
Legislation on Subject at Short
Session of Congress.
!
Tli?- coining struggle in Congress
! over railroad legislation will be a
| sharp one, Senator Gallinger of New
; Hampshire, republican leader of the
Senate, predicted today. He doubted,
he said, whether it would be possible
to enact much legislation at the short
r session of Congress, about to open, on
j account of lack of time.
! "I am in favor of some plan whereby
I industrial disputes may be investigat|
ed by an impartial body before any
| strike or lockout is ordered." said Senator
Gallinger. He said that a law of
[ this kind has worked well in Canada,
! and that he thought it would work
j well In-re.
Discusses Labor Attitude.
, "1 know that the labor union leaders
j are opposing any law which would
! f r\ cimini l .1 rbit r:i I ii?n h#?for??
strike was ordered," said Senator Gallinger.
"1 know that. Samuel (jOmjuTS,
president of the American Federation
of Labor, has been quoted to the effect
that tne eight-hour law. so-called,
must go into effect January 1, law or
no law. Of course, if wo are going to
disregard all law in this country in
the interests of any particular band of
men, we might as well move into some
I country where there is no law.
"If the labor organizations, or any
! other organizations, are to he permitted
to come to Washington ami enforce
their will upon Oongress, as the\ did
last September in the passage of the
Adamson eight-hour law. then th?country
is in a had way. Personally, I
am in sympathy with .the eight-hour
day wherever it is feasible to have it.
Effect on National Election.
"But every one knows that the Adamson
law is not properly an eight-hour
law, that it was never intended as such
by the men who sought it, although I
expect the misinformation spread in regard
to this law was responsible for
hundreds of thousands of votes being
cast for President Wilson November 7.
The men who came here advocating the
law, admitted to us that it was not an
eight-hour law, but a wage-increase
lav.-, pure and simple."
Senator Gallinger attributed President
Wilson's re-election in large pari
to the "he kept us out of war" slogan
of the democratic campaigners.
JOSEPH B.ROOKS KILLED IN
FALL FROM EIGHTH FLOOR
Well Known Theatrical Manager
Had Been Suffering From a
Nervous Breakdown.
NEW YORK. November -7.?Joseph
Brooks, theatrical manager, was killed
today by a fall from his eighth floor
apartment in West 79th street.
Several weeks ago llr. Rrooks suffered
a nervous breakdown, according to his
family. Today his wife left their bed--j
room to prepare a warm bath for him. ;
and in her absence he went to the open i
window. A few minutes later a policeman
notified Mrs. Brooks that her husband's
body had been found in the
courtyard.
Mr. Brooks was general manager of
the Klaw & Erlanger productions and
was actively associated with many of
the theatrical successes of that corporation.
He was the first producer of
"Ben Hur," and at various periods
managed Booth, Barrett, Fanny Havenport,
Lillian Russell, William 11. Franc
and others. In 19uS he went to England.
where he arranged to have the
Drury Lane melodramas produced in
Chicago.
Mr. Brooks is survived by his widow
and a daughter, Virginia Fox, Ho was
born in Memphis* Tenn.
NEW YORK TO BAN :
EN AND EGGS
| I
Housewives to Act on Suggestion
of Commissioner
Hartigan.
I
TO STRIKE AT MIDDLEMAN
I
New York city. in wrestling with the j
excessive cost of foot I products, is not ,
waiting for an embargo to l?o laid by ;
Congress, but is tackling the problem in |
its lair?the wholesale ami retail dealers.
The retailers claim that high prices are
enforced by the jobbers, th?- latter blame
the producers, the producers blame the
consumers for extravagance, and so the ;
circle is completed. Meanwhile, there are'
no reports ?>t" lessening pri< ? s, and the
kitchenette nnd lenoment housewives i
continue to live out of paper bags. quart ;
measures and "air tights."
One New York newspaper claims to
"have the goods" on the wholesalers, the!
article of commerce and consumption in i
this case being butter. The newspaper investigators
claim that a retailer who was J
selling a popular brand of western butter j
at a profit of - < ents a pound was "called j
flown" by the wholesaler, who intimated J
that unless this grocer demanded the same ;
rate of profit extracted by his rivals the i
supply would he cut off at the source. So \
the grocer was compelled to boost his j
price.
Under odicial advice, to wit, the sup- I
i gestlori of the city commissioner of the j
j bureau of weights and measures. .Mr. H.ur|
tignn. the Housewives' Ueaeue of New ;
' York city today started a movement for
'a two-week period of abstention from tht
i use of eggs in an effort to greak the
("corner" in eggs which is alleged to exist i
between New York and Chicago.
Would Bar Potatoes Also.
Mr. Ilartigan insists thai ." cents is
enough to pay for cold storage eggs |
| that were put away bast spring at 20 :
! to 22 cents a dozen, and he advises j
housewives to "cut out" eggs from the!
family menu for a fortnight. After!
that, he suggests that similar "absent
treatment" be accorded butter and then
potatoes, to demonstrate if the law of
supply and demand is still working or
; if nature has changed.
: Commissioner liartigau said:
"1 ha?l a meeting last Tuesday with
j twelve of the most impor tant --gg deu?!
ers in New York, ami they agreed of>
j cents a dozen is a normal retail price
for cold storage eggs." he said. "If
: the demand for eggs is decreased by
> at least one-half it will lead to the
: breaking up of speculation in eggs.
The success of a household embargo on
foodstuffs was proven two years ago,.
i U'llfm Veil" ViivL- ? I.iri.-n ? .. f > J !.? ?
, meat at unjustifiably 1ml.1i prices ami
' the prices went down HO ]) ? cent in
! nine days."
Meyer l.oii'lon, the > o - * Iit n-pre- :
sentative in Congress frojn N?w York
; city, addressing a meeting last night
on the East Side, toid his audience that
1 he proposes to introduce a hill provid- i
ing that the government take ever tVt
| cattle ranches and that the govern;
ment establish maximum prices- for
j food.
Representative Fitzoeraid
Commended for His Plan
to Obtain Embargo on Food
Chairman Fitzgerald of the House ;
committee on appropriations, who is to J
lead the fight in the House for an em- j
bargo on foodstuffs to reduce the ex- '
eessiv?- cost of the necessaries of life, 1
eturm-d to Washington today from a :
j visit to his distriel in Hr<?okl\ii. M1\ i
! Fitzgera Id ioinni . stack of grains j
land letters pr.l!\ near as h'nii as he is j
j'ali comma nding h;s prc>p< s- d .ouisr .
'These mi.-sivis ?\ :m- M an all ove! thej
o'.int ry follow t::ii the !u i.aii.-asi pub- \
^lieati 'U of .his intention t?? introduce j
jviding an^mbargo on foodstuff and it.- :
'id vnciM-i in the early singes of the
meeting of i 'ong i . s.- .
| "In my own ?ii.sti ?vt." said Mr. Fitzgerald.
"1 received nothing hut en-:
co ura dement of my coming effort in
behalf of an embargo. Tim people are!
eager for it. They feel the pinch very
severely of the sudden raise in prices
and will sanction any course which j
will reduce the extortionate prices to j
a normal level."
As he spoke Mr. Fitzgerald was sur- '
rounded as by a wall with a stack of
books from the Library <?f t'ongress
j bearing upon the subject of embargoes, j
There were scores of them, treating,
j with i he question from every cor.- j
| ctivable point of view. He will g<? ,
! through this mass of data an 1 burn
i the midnight oil to gather material to
(reinforce his arguments in favor of his.
bill. He i< quite aware <-f the eppo-i
j sition he will have to encounter from I
| the farmers and from the exporting interests
of the bfg seaport < iti-*?. bur j
is getting re.idy to "take them all on."
SAY EMBARGO ON F00P
WOULD NOT BE REMEDY
i
| Senators Gallinger and Smoot Asj
sert Action Should Cover All
Products or None.
i
I Tiie proposal to piace an embargo on j
: foodstuffs now being shipped in large |
I quantities from this country abroad will!
I not get very far. in the opinio" of Sen- j
I a tor tlallingvr of N?-w Hampshire. : ie re- !
publican leader of the Senate has j
! "The rdea is un-American." ssw> Sen- j
{ a tor Oallinger. "and if it were extended J
I to foodstuffs it might just as well l>e ex- |
tended t<? manufactured articles. We
tried an embargo on American goods in
; the early days of the republic, hut it. did j
J not prove popular and was soon dropped." i
j Senator Srnoot of Utah, also a repub- '
I lican. said today that lie did not believe j
Congress would give much of its time at !
the coming session to consideration <>t
[ the proposed embargo.
| "I do not believe that the sent intent in
j favor of an embargo on foodstuffs in this
country is strong enough i?> force this
matter to the hue." said .Senator Sniool.
j "it would not he popular with tin* farm- I
J .^rs of the country. It would not be fair. [
either, to place an embargo on the prodi
uots of the farmers and to continue to
I permit the export of manufactured
j articles which the farmers must use.
; Certainly, if an embargo were placed on
foodstuffs it should be extended to other
articles." <
a _
Shriners Sail for Panama.
NEW uHhEANS, La., November 27.-?
Charles E. Ovenshire of Minneapolis, '
deputy imperial potentate of the An- i
cient Arabic Order of the Nobles of the '
Mystic Shrine, and Ashley J. Abel!, il- (
lustrious potentate of Osmond Temple, ,
St. Paul, headed a delegation of forty i
Minnesota Shriners which sailed for
the Isthmus of Panama from here Saturday
on the United Fruit steamer
Turrialba. The officers will conduct a
I ceremonial ou the isthmus,
l
CATHOLIC ALUMNAE,
2,500 STRONG, HERE
Woman Graduates of Academies
and Colleges Seeing
Sights of National Capital.
EXTENSIVE ENTERTAINMENT
About. L'. .".*" <? woman graduates of
Catholic academies and colleges are
sf-oir?jr the sights of the .National Capital
today ami bo!up entertained at reception.*,
luncheon and a hall by leader<
iti official. * -durational and social
of Washington.
This army of Catholic alumnae? in eluded
more than l.h'O delepat.es t ?
tin- International Federation of Catholic
Alumnae, which has hoeii hold
ii;it - second biennial convention i:
Ha llim ore. The delegates came over
from Baltimore in a special train tins
morning to l'niversity station, Brookland.
They were met at tilt; Catholic
T'niversity administration building: by
mor?* than 1,000 local alumnae.
Reception in Their Honor.
Headed by Tit. He v. Thomas J. Sh.
iian. rector of the <'acholic TTnlversity
and titular bishop of < Jermanioopolis.
the entire faculties of all the schools
of the Catholic Fniversity gave a re cci
tion in their honor in McMahot;
Hail. \'ery K< v Kdward A. Pace, di?V'
tor ot studies of the university facultv.
was master of ceremonies. A
stii ig?-d orclu-stra played in the assembly
hall, and the ?'atholic t'niver;ity
band, under the direction of Itrv.
P. H. Kelly, played in the lobby on tin
first floor.
Many of the most prominent women
in Washington, including several wiv'-s
of .ah:net members and Mrs. Kdward
T? White, wife of the f'hiof Justice,
assisted in the formal welcome.
Shown University Buildings.
Following the formal reception ii
MeMahon Hall, the alumnae gue-?
were conducted about the variou
buildings on the university campus b\
a committee of ushers and guides from
the undergraduate student body of tinuniversity.
This pilgrimage also included
a visit to Trinit> Follege, conducted
by The Sisters of Notre flame d?
Xamur for the higher education o"
young women, on grounds adjacent
the university and to the monasteries
of the . i>otninican and Franciscan
orders. A large panoramic photograph
of the entire assembly was taken.
From J'J to 2 p.m. luncheon for the
guests was served in the university
dining halls, more than 1,800 guests
being served.
Many of the most distinguished
alumnae of the Sacred Heart schools
were participants in this closing feature
of the biennial ?-on\ en'tion. Thos?
present represented Manbatt-Mcvllbr.
Kden Hall, Rochester. Kenwood and
'*Washington Dny'- for the Alumnae.
This afternoon the army of alumnae
i.s visiting: the White House, the Pan American
buildin.gr and other points of
interest in Washington.
An elaborate reception and ball will
he held this evening in the New Wilhird
Hotel from s o'clock until midnight.
Mrs. Edward D. White, wife of tie,
Chief Justice of the Supreme Court ot
the United States, is to stand at the
head of the receiving line, and with
her will he 1 ho wi\es of the cabinet
members and more than .t hundreo
pj eminent women in the official am
social life of the capital.
.Miss J'la liiil Howie, chairman of tie
committee i'i "Washington which has
been planning for this "plav day" ? !
th" : imi.'.i, will make the intiooinlions
> Miss <"l..i- I Cov.au. presided
<>l t lie lntei'national Ke?k- rat lot:, who
i: tun: will present them to Mrs.
W!.;i . . ass Ella Lornine l>ors?-y i.*
chairmen of th? committee which hi ranged
for the reception.
Will Assist in Receiving'.
All the international officers will assist
in receiving. They are Miss Clare I.
Cogan, St. Joseph's, Etnmitshurg, Md ,
founder and first president; Mrs. Janus
i. Sheeran, St Joseph's, Hrnmftsburg,
M<1.. founder and chairman of the con mittee
on organization: Airs. Hugh Kelly,
Lore no Alumnae Association. Toronto,
Ontario, lirst vice president; Mrs. Frank
Hahne. Notre Dame alumnae. Dayton.
' >hio. second fice president; Miss Irene
M. fallen. St. Joseph's Alumnae Association.
Bnaitwood. N. Y., third vi? >
president; Miss Hesther F. Sullivan. St.
Klizaholh's alumnae, Fonvent Station.
N. J., corresponding secretary; Mrs. Jehu
McKnery. Immaculate Conception alumnae.
1 >avenpor:. Iowa, recording secretary;
Mrs. William Muldoon. Mount St.
J<?s, pa's ;*lumna?\ Brighton. Mass.. treasurer.
and the following trustees: Mrs. Howard
L I'ainc. Mrs. T K. Phillips. ATrs.
Daniel V. Gallery. Miss Margaret J., liu*t
anrl Miss C'ecile | >. Lorenzo.
The presidents of the affiliated nu
gatiizat ions who will l?e in the receiving
lii.e are Mrs. I'Any Melee. Mt-s
Mary i arlow. Miss Kunjce K Warn* ,
Airs. William Roach, jr.; Mrs. G. \\ .
Evans. Miss Alary Alaloney. Mrs. Alice
AT. Hrow ii, Miss Alargerv Lucas, Miss
Hu get tic Liewtawd. Miss Mary K..vanaugh.
ALss Hortense Mctlowan, AlisDorothy
Rouchet* and Miss Josephino
Wimsit t.
Chairman of Ball Committee.
Aliss Nellie Johnson, one of this season's
popular debutantes and a graduate
of Hden Hall, is chairman of the
committee of Washington young women
who are in charge of the alumnae
hall tonight.
Tim other members of the committer
are; Miss Marx Lord Andrews, ATiss
' -i. m Mi?? \d. M..riran Hill.
Miss Caldron, .Miss Harlow. Miss
Klizaboth Hamilton. -Miss Amy Bennett.
Miss Margaret Clark. Miss Kt-evrs Harris.
Miss<s Tuttle, Miss .Msry Veeder,
Miss I ?.Mores Crawford, Miss Houibo
Hamilton ami Miss Roberta Wiley.
Ralph Snowden Hill is chairman of
the lloor committee for the alumnae
ball, ami lias with him Bowie Clark,
Warwick Kniile Montgomery, jr., Wills
a rr? I'ayne .Meredith ami others.
W hile the ball is in progress at the
Wiliaid. hundreds of the alumnae aio
to .accept an invitation to another reception
in the Library of Congress,
from s t-> 11 p.m.
A number of the alumnae are to remain
ovei in Washington for a few
days as quests of local alumnae, but
the big majority of them will leave th??
capital at 12:25 o'clock on a special
train for Baltimore.
One of the features of the "Washington
Jay" entertainment Is a souvenir program.
on the first page of which is a
sketch giving: the early history of
Patholio Washir.gton, written by Miss
Klla J.oraine D??rs?:y, an alumnae of
liforp'tnwii Visitation Convent. Tli?
work of compiling' this program was
in charge of Mrs.. W. N. Roach, jr.
Visitors of Note.
Among* the visiting alumnae are
many women of note, who have
