'FINANCIAL EDITION
.'
NIGHT
EXTRA
VOL. III. NO. M
A ,ViwT
Mittytt
NIGHT
ituentn
mr - i
V ,
1V
.iff-
PHILADELPHIA, MONDAY, NOVEMBER 27, 1916
Cor t mom, lold, it tnarcaUo t.tcntx CourANt
PRICE ONE CENT
..fh- V
. c
8
WE WILL CRUSH
RUMANIA, SAYS
FALKENHAYN
, Played With Fire Too .Long.
jv Now Getting Burned,
r. ho Asseris
BUCHAREST SECOND AIM
Destruction of Foe's Army Chief
Objective, German Com
mander Avers
By CARL.W. ACKEttMAN
tiPAnoiMirrEns op GENEitAL von
T.vt;N'HAYN IN-THi: TRANSVIA'ANI.
AN .ALPSi (via Ilcrlln nnd Snyvlllo wire
less). Nov. Zl. uur las is 10 ucsirny me
Rumanian army nnd that we nro doing ns
K but we can."
e nnk riencrnl von Fnlkenhnyn today
his brows wrinkled, but his eyen sparkling
l h xubmitted to nuestlons concerning tlio
' Ylctoflous progress of Ills troops against
Ilumsnla.
"Our flyer." he continued, "report tho
Ttiimanlan roads black with peoplo and
wsgons bearing refugees fleeing from l.lttle'
ffallachla toward tho Alt River. This Is
the terrible part of war. That Boldlcrs
I should suffer Is war. but that women nnd
children should be put to such misery that
K It terrible. But It wfii Rumania's choice.
Itumsnla played-wlth flro too long and Is
now getting burned."
"How soon do you ' expect to Kt to
Bucharest?" the German general wnr. asked.
ATIMT MUST BE CRUSHED
"Do we want Bucharest?" ho responded
Immediately. "Every time we tnko charRe
ef ft city wo havo to feed tllo population.
We are not bothered by that question we
are soldiers. Our tank Is to destroy the Ru
manUn army, nnd that we are doing as best
ta can."
"Marl ask another question, excellency?"
I ventured
The general's eyebrows moved up and down
p tnd his eyes looked out sharply as only
,Von Falkenhayn'a eyes can do. He nodded
int.
"When will 'the Rumanian army bo de-
Kitroitd?"
iv i'A few officers standing nearby smiled.
$.'.' TtiA ValUimfiavn Innknrl ntralifht nt his
Wttoner as he said:
Jliln or snow, a railroad accident, or
raoit anything can destroy the best made
iijjins. I havo been In this wnr two and a
-Mir years and can say the only certain
fitting about It Is uncertainty. I am only
certain of one thing and that Is that we
will win."
Seated across from his excellency wvts
his-chief of staff. Turning next to him for
comment on tho Rumanian operations
about Craiova he responded:-
"In the warfaro here the cavalry goes
forward like a snake over new territory
with Its fangs out and waving In the air.
t When those fangs encounter an obstacle
mey are drawn Into the snakes mouth.
Then, after a, while, the fnngs reappear
and the snake continues."
At present wo are en route Into Rumania
following the advancing German troops.
ALLIES' HOPES CRUSH EI)
To an observer here It seems that von
Falkenhayn's success In cutting off the Ru
manian nose .which stuck out Into the
Balkans destroys all possibilities of the Al-
jf lies bridging- the gap between Monastlr and
K the Danube nnd. halts Russia's hopes of
another road to Constantinople. What ef
fect these operations vlll have on the Rus
(Ian front officers refuse to discuss. Every
one, however, expects much more hard and
Politer renting with" the Rumanians. But
they are confident the operations will go
forward,
falkenhayn's left wing Is literally draw-
fe 'ns two rings about the remaining Ru
manian forces In Little Wallachla. From
Craloya, an Important city of 100,000 peo
ple. Falkenhayri'a advance forces are work
ing north, south, rast nnd west. To the
north nnd west one ring Is forming, and
a, second Is being made to the south and
wet.
Today the Germans are occupying all of
Continued on Tan Tour. Column One
THE WEATHER
WEATHER FORECASTS
itlttl oh nru discovery solar, phytlci by
"lliUS Z.. HOOKS anil Tf F. C&SOTUERS
Forecast for Pennsylvania:
Sunday. December 3. to Saturday. De
cember S The week will be generally
rftloudy and unsettled, with occasional snow,
which Will hit heavy arnuntl TueHrlav nnd
. Thursday. Normal winter temperatures
..irui prevail, with coldest Wednesday and
.Trlday, when minimum temperatures will
Vie at 16 above.
The general weather movements due:
A cool movement Is due to develon In
; northwest United States December 6, and
; will be a moderate to average movement,
fIU) general precipitation Jn advance, snow
W the Worth nnd West and rain In tho
JSouth, and bringing so degrees colder,
Itb, clear weather over the country gen
' wUy.
Another movement is due December 9,
and Wilt bA n. niflH.nlnmAV.ni.nt hrfmrlnor
showers over the eastern two-thirds of the
t country and colder weather, mostly con-
guwa io tne West.
GOVERmiEWT FORECAST
For Philadelphia and vicinity Fair
un4 wanner tonight -and. Tuesday, with
tkwtst temperature tonight about forty
tygrets; fresh winds, mostly west. .
i.KvnTri nv n.iY
San rlMa SB ni. 1 Hood rU. 8.SS p. m.
UO acts . 4 Aft n m I Moan souths. 2:11 n. m.
OKL.1WABK UIVEK TIDE fllANOta
I'HBSTNUT BTllKirX'
t wtter 1 fi m. I llUti wator 1 .10 p. jo.
tun. 9JVI a- m. I Law water ivs v. m.
tmltW.VCX!K AT XSCU
91 ifffllT 1"I"tl'"i
-A rai
rniyrmrwrwrmrmrm
,'f 5SflRf
' ?IBIssHm.
saaHsJIilsaaaaaNL
iflLLEpwisllllHrV
cMCSuHixlHKiLiilsK HL
GENERAL VON FALKENHAYN
RAILROAD OWNERSHIP
BY U. S. CALLED EASY
Many Executives Willing and
Red Tape Unnecessary, Thorn
Tells Investigators
DOES NOT FAVOR PLAN
WASHINGTON', Nov. S7; Many ralroad
executives would' welcome Government
ownership of railroads and to take them
over would bo so easy a matter that no
"red tape" steps whatever would be neces
sary, A. P. Thorn, counsel for the railway
executives committee, said this afternoon
under cross-examlrintlon before tho New
lands Investigating committee. Mr. Thorn,
however, urged Federal Incorporation of all
national railroads.
"Personally, J don't believe Government
ownership would be In tho Interest of the
public welfare, although some railroad men
are anxious for It," ho said.
The cross-examination was expected to
occupy Beveral days and to develop the
sentiment of the' committee toward the
railroad plan. The railroads propose that
the present ' authority over the railroads
exorcised by the several States be elim
inated nnd complete control over all phases
of railroad activity be vested In the-Federal
Government, all big railroads being In
corporated under a Federal law. Tho ques
tion of the constitutionality; of this pro
posal developed sharp differences of opinion
among members of the committee. ,
It became apparent (oaay that the chief
fight over the revolutionary- plan proposed
by tho railroads before the committee will
be between the roads them'selves and rep
resentatives of, the State railroad commis
sions, whoso functions would be entirely
eliminated. A committee representing the
National Association of State Railroad
Commissioners, Jieaded by former Senator
Uoseph Brlstow, of Kansas, nnd Max
Thelan, of California, will argue at length
against the plan . after examination of
Thorn,
PENN STUDENTS CHUCK
'SCALPERS' OUT OF LINE
No Mercy Shown Would-Be Ped
dlers of Thanksgiving Day
1 Football Tickets
Man-handling greeted . persistent ticket
scilpers" today, when 2000 tickets to Tho
Penn-Cprnell Thanksgiving Day football
game were gobbled up by .eager students In
three hours at the University of Pennsyl
vania Athletic Association Building. Thirty
third street above Spruce.
"Scalpers," who pushed their way Into the
long line, were accorded no gentle treat
ment. They were yanked from tho Jlne by
indignant students and hurled bodily tp
.the mercy pf the crowd, .which tor coat
and hats from the "merchants" and bruised
several of them. In splto of precautions
several "scalpers," unobtrusively awaiting
their regular turn In the line, obtained a
small block pf tickets.
Tickets to 4he gridiron classlo were put
on sale today at aimbela' also; Here a
long line, headed by a. gray-haired woman,
who had waited since 6 o clock this morn
ing made a rush for tickets at :39 o'clock,
'Soaloera" were In evidence here, too.
. The line at ino uihi.i.m; v-v..,.m .
'students by 8: SO o'clock, tho opening hour,
SlUUCl.w. t tiffk.t had tin sold.
anu uy ',' .,- .... .,...
Not rooro than four tickets were sold to
each fcuyer. The I? and .0 eat jn the
"" V ..... .l..it ui.rA tha flrs In an.
west aim ". .. '"": . . ,, ,""
Nearly IPO students were, still Io line when
the lastMcket was sola ana iu pmce caoeea.
..... "t.i 111.. 077Q In Cmltfnrtm
Wilson riurauivj "i" t - v
SACRAMENTO. Cat , Kov s rresiueni
Wilson's plurality In California, la JT73
votes according to seralofllplal figures an
nounced by Secretary of State Frank C
Jordan, The flsure Include the vote of
a. hitherto, questioned precinct In Orange
7 S.SSLZZZ ZttktZi wiuiii
sraare.ESSii.iL.Et
WjMWumiw 'JuXLV-.U: ?w- i
fcseJlMC W- .
ALEXANDRIA
CAPTURED BY
MACKENSEN
Important Rumanian Rail
road Center Occupied by
Victorious Teutons
ADVANCE IN ALT VALLEY
Germans Crush Foe's Resistance
in Wallachia an,d
Dobrudja
nKIU.lN, Nov. :7.
Field Marrhnl von Mnckonscn's nrmy of
German nlliea, mnnslilnR ln way' north
ward from tho Danube, lins raptured thn
linportiint lium.tulnn railroad town of Alex
andria. TV capture n.n announced today by the
Wnr Office In n statement cm Rumanian
operations
More than 1600 Rumanian officers nnd
mVn hae been tnken fn the Inst twenty-
,four houro by tho victorious Teuton.
Vast stores of wnr supplies hnvo been
captured.
The sweep of the German allien IhroiiRh
Rumania continues unchecked.' Austio
German troops, driving down the Alt Vnlcly
from the TranxylinnMn Alps, Imvo broken
the Russo-Uumanlan resistance. Tho ltus
slnns and Hutnnnlans nro retreating.
Rumanian troops from the Ursova Rnrrl-
son have been surrounded.
.
In Dobrudja the German nllles nro crush
ing out nil Russian nnd Uumnnlnti resist
ance. The text of the omclal statement fol
lows :
Army group of Archduke Josef In
tho Carpathians a Russian reconnoltcr
Ing detachment In tho l.utlova sector
nnd several battailous north of tlio
Negrlsora Valley wcrn repulsed. Tho
German nnd Austro-IlunRarlnn troops
of Lieutenant General on Dolmen
singer, advancing on both sides of the
Alt from the north, havo flushed tho
enemy bnck bhlnd the Tapolgu (To
pollsh) sector.
From Turnu Sevcreln our troops
havo pushed the remainder of the Ru
manian garrlbon of Orsova townid the
southeast. There other forces block
their way. The dofeated enemy, besides
suffering sanguinary losses, lost twenty
eight otllcors and 1200 men in pris
oners. We captured thrco ennnon,
twenty-seven loaded ammunition carts
and 800 other vehicles, all loaded.
In Danube ports between Orsova nnd
Rtistchuk wo have captured six steam
ers and eighty tugboats. Most of them
bad cargoes on board.
Army group of .Field Marshal von
Mackcnscn Dobrud Kast of TIr
venl, Saxon Infantry Regiment No.
182, brilliantly assisted by New Mark
Artillery Regiment No. 51, took posi
tions Immediately beforo tho enemy's
positions arid then broke through his
lines, capturing ten ofllceis, 400 men
nnd seven machine Runs. The Roshlorl
de Vede sector has been reached on
botlf sides of Alexandria.
We have captured Alexandria.
Hostile attacks carried out by Rus
sian cavalry and Infantry failed. Ka
of Krchesee, the advance of liulgurlun
battalions drove tho enemy from the
forefront of our positions. Rumanian
resistance Is breaking befoio tho; ad
vance of our Danube army.
-
Alexandria Is fifty-four miles from
Bucharest at the Roshlorl do Vcde-Slm-nltza
Railway. Roshlorl de Vede Is sixty
miles west of Bucharest and the same dis
tance east of Craiova. Three railway lines
converge there.
There Is nothing to report from the east
ern front, the Wnr Office stated.
DVLGARS CROSS DANUBE
AND TAKE THREE TOWNS
SOFIA. Nov. 27.
The capture of three Rumanian towns
by the soldiers of Von Mackensen that
crossed the Danube Jrom llulgnrn was re
ported by the War Office today The offi-
Contlnurd on I'aie Four, Column To
GUNMAN NEAR DEATH
AFTER FIGHTING CROWD
One Victim May Die Three
Others Hurt in Riot on
Car
Two men are near death today In the
Pennsylvania Hospital, as the result of a
revolver battle that started on a. trolley
car at Twelfth and Pine streets last night.
whn an Infuriated gunman first held up a
conductor and then began firing In every
direction. The fight threw the neighbor
hood for blocks Into an uproar and nearly
ended In a lynching. In all. fie pe.rsons
were shot, Including the gunman, but only
two were seriously hurtv More than 100
shots were fired.
S, Fergerls, of Chicago, the gunman,
who did all the shooting, Is under arrest
In the hospital, where he Is not expected
tp live. One ung was crushed and he re
ceWed nearly thirty cuts and other wounds
from the frenzied crowd before the police
rescued him.
The other probably fatally Injured, Is
Vincent Cooper, a negro, thirty-five years
old, 510 Smith Twelfth street. Jle was
shot In the abdomen when he plueklly
gave battle to the gunman. The others
shot were Patrol Sergeant John Tyrell, of
the Twelfth and pine streets station; Harry
Savoy, a negro, 1133 Pine street, and
another negro, Clement Perkins, SIS South
Twelfth street, Their Injuries are not
serious.
The shodtlng happened aUout 7 30. The
gunman had boardetPthe car uptown and
asked to be let otc at Loouft street.
When the car stopped at tfejU tfsf-
Ctrii faUrt ' ttW5t fc &
--- - , - - im,..,, i it"
CUcuta ea VntIrpj fleiwia ma
FIERCE BATTLE
STILL RAGES TO
GET CHIHUAHUA
Streets of Mexican City
Clogged With Dead
Bandits and Foes
DAMAGE BY SHELL FIRE
Villa Fights for Fifth Day
Aid Is Rushed to
Carranzistas
as
Kl. TASO, Tex, Nov. 27. The attack
on Chihuahua City by nn nrmy of 1000
Vllllslns under personal command of Villa
was still In firogress'Varlj" today. United
States Department nRc(a here declared.
They bused their statements upon the ac
tion of tho Mexican de facto (loernmrnt
iiuthorltles In sending every Carrnnzlsla
soldier aaltabln In northern Mexico to the
besieged city.
This Is the fifth day of the battle for
possession of Chihuahua City, tho key to
Northern Mexico. In spile of every effort
by .Innr'ez officials no word of the fate of
General TreUno nnd his Rarrlson has come
over the wires since noon Saturday. That
Villa forces still encircle the city Is cer
tain. Losseji In the four-day assault were ex
tremely heavy on both sides, nccnrdlng to
reporta reaching the border.
"Cannot estimate losses," read one mes
pnRc, "but tho streets of tho city lire filled'
with dead. Impossible to pick up the
wounded hccnRtc of incessant firing. Many
buildings thorughout the city damaged by
shcllllre."
MACHINE GUNS USED.
During tho early attacks Saturday VII
llstas penetrated north of tho city proper
nml maintained a foothold for a time In
Zarco nvenuc. Machine-gun fire hurled
them back. At another time the bandits
gained the Church of Snnturlo de Guada
lupe, on the west side of the city. Shells
from Nocnty-flvc-mlltlmcter guns demol
ished tho church nnd Carrnnzlstn cavalry
scattered tho survivors.
AlthoiiRh tho telegraph wires are open
to Corral, within ten miles of the State
capital, the military operator there In
formed General Goninles nt Juarez that no
refugee had reached Corral since yesterday.
"5V messenger sent from tho end of tho line
lifto Chihuahua City- hB not returned.
Unltcc States official circles hero were
certain Chihuahua City was In a stnte of
siege or messengers would have brought
news. At the samo time It was certain Villa
had not yet captured the city.
MAY ATTACK JUAREZ
United States Secret Service men here
declare the possibility of an nttack upon
Juarez within a few weeks Is growing. Two
deserters from Salazar's band told the
Government ngents that Salazar announced
to his men before the attack upon Chi
huahua City that he had been ordered by
Villa to come north after taking the capital
and capture Juarez
Fewer than 300 men are garrisoning
Juarez nt present.
General Gonzales Is hurri'lng, every avail
able soldier In the entire State of Chi
huahua northward by rail to send to the
relief of the Stnto capital.
From Santa Iluenaventura tho garrison
pf ISO Carranzistas Is being withdrawn, to
gether with tho garrisons at Namliulpa,
CasaH Grades nnd Guzman, numbering
about 100 men edch. These re-enforcements
nro being rushed north on the Mexican
Northwestern Rallwa to Juarez, where
they will bo transferred to the Mexican
Central and started south.
AID CUT OFF
Gonzales announced today that General
Maycntte, with 3C00 de facto troops, wai
making u forced march north from Santa'
Rosalia to aid the beleaRuerSd garrison.
Because every bridge south of Chihuahua
City haa been burned, Uoiuales Ueclures It
will tako several days for Maycotte's forces
to i each that city.
MONEY MOTIVE SEEN
IN PITTST0N TRAGEDY
Bodies, Badly Mutilated, Found
on Railroad Tracks May
Be Murder'
PITTSTON, Pa Nov. 17 What Is be-
lieted to be a double-murder mystery was
disclosed here this morning by dlscofery of
the bodies of Jacob Wasko and Charley
Kuskowl along the railroad track at Du
pont village, one mile from Plttston.
The men were chums and had 'been vis
iting here. Kuskowl's body was frightfully
mangled, Wasko'a body was badly muti
lated, but bullet-holes In his chest indicate
murder had been committed and the bodies
thrown on the I.ehlgh Valley jtallroad
tracks. Robber was tha motive, as $30
Wasko was known to have was missing.
' ' '
WOJIAN DIES TO SHIELD MAN
Sued for Divorce, She Kills Herself to
Protect Corespondent
NKW YORK, Nov. IT-Rather than drag
another man's name Into a scandal, Mrs.
Florence Slbel, pretty tweijty-four-year-old
wife of a, Schenectady (N. Y.) grain dealer,
gave her husband the freedom be wanted
by killing herself early today In the Hotel
Strand. In West Thirty-second street.
The husband, Andrew Slbel, Jr . had be
gun action for divorce, according .to the
police, and threatened to name a core
spondent. From Mrs". Slbel's correspond.
en, it was learned that tha man la going
to be married, and It was In order to shield
bja name that she took her own life, , -1
QUICK
NKtV YORK JCWKIRY STORE ROBOT T ;H DAVJ.IGTTT
:JRV YOUX. Nov. S7: Tlir. r inn '..r-U r Aug.-s!i"..c r'i f
in his Jewelry tor totlny nnd alvlppiil Ins nhnw ens.' of $IVU0 woin
of Rfms. TIip streets outside wore conirrs!fl with people tuul tlue
detectives nnd lx rmtrolinen wetn wltbtu n hundred feet of. the ito
TODAY'S RACING RESULTS .
1'h st Bowie vnee, lunldcu 2-ycnr-old., Belling, 0 furlougs Tyr
rmt, 110, Butwcll, ?2.70, S2.80, ?2.20, won;, ainitngliity, 115, Obert,
$8.00, $3.50,, second. Fcluf.cn, 112, William, ?2.00, tliltd. Time,
1.10 1-5.
Second-Bowie tace, 2-ycnr-olds, tnuso, 0 1-2 furlongs Vltt
mrttum, 110, Bulwell, 91.70, J?0.30, $2.70, won WenufcortK, lit), Rou
mnij, rfj.30,?2.ri0, second! MnnoHIn, 110,'I.yke, $2,70, third. Tim-',
l.il. , -
i
v,'r
BAD BREAK IN WHEAT; PRICES OFF 6 1-8 TO 93-8 CENTS
CHICAGO, Nov. 27. Selling on nn enormous scnlei cnusctl n
had break Mu. tho wheat-market todny, piiiVB slumping 0 1-Bc to
0 3-8c a bushel after they rfndisold above Saturday' cloa":,' following
n lower start. Bearish factors wcrn tho embargo movement, peace
talk and submarine rumors.'
HUGHES ALLIANCE IN STATE SPENT $22.784-t2
IIA1UUSHUKO, Nov. 27. The Hughes Alliniire In PennpyivAnia
leccived couti'lbutloi'is nmouutiug to 23,017.70 during the recent
campaign nml spent ij522,7J8.'12, according to n statement filed today
at tho Stnto Department. Joseph McLaughlin, of l'hlhulelphln, Re
publican caitdidalo for Congiessinan-at-I.:U'ge, spent !J3178.17, 2000
of which was given ui a conttlbutl6n to thu'rltcpublicnn Slate Coiu-
luUlcoj '
......t.
MUNITIONS SHIP IN DISTRESS OFF SEATTLE
SAN FRANCISCO, -Nov. 27. Tlio Norwegian Mlcnmshlp NlelH Nielsen. S8U0 tons,
bound for Vlndlvustok with n Konernl wnr cargo, Iq in illatrcaa -50 miles off Seattle
according to udvlccs received heio today by the United States navril radio .itullon.
Tho vessel Is reported to have lost her nuldiy and to be virtually helpless In a gale.
The United States whip South Dakota, and other vessels arc ruBhliiK to her aid.
BRITAIN REFUSES SAFE-CONDUCT TO ENVOY ....
LONDON, Xov. 27. It wna olllclally announced today that tho Rrllluli Govern
ment, has refused n safe conduct for Count Tvmiow Tdrnowsky, recently appointed
AuBtro-itungnrlnn Ambassador to the United Htntes.
SUIT FOR $2,000,000 COMPENSATION
A mill to get i-oiutiunsntloii for alleged losses Buffered through the manipulation
of securities of the UlrniliiKlmni, Knsley nnd liessemer Itallrouil Company, of Ala
bama, Involving approximately $2,000,000, was begun t'jdny against Morris Hrothcrt),
Investment brokers, of tliLs city, by five stockholders of tho company In the United
States District Court. 11 orris Urol hers, the bill allcscs, were tho promoters of the
enterprise. Tfie railroad company fnlleil some time ngo anil its property was sold
under foreclosure proceedings.
ZINC ADVANCES TO $105 A TON
JOI'LIN, .Mo., Nov. 27. .inc ore has advanced $10 a ton, which Is double the
regular weekly advance for flie Inst seven weeks. The price now Is $105 n ton,
and n very large tonnage has been sold at these figures.
NORWEGIANS BUILD SHIPS TO GET WORLD TRADE
NISW YOItK, Nov. 27. Norway has under construction In American and Nor,
weglnn shipyards 200 ships, and after tho war will make a strong; bid for 'world
shipping, according to Christopher Ilaminw.lg, a member of the Norwegian firm of
Hnmmezlg & .lohtibon, who arrived hern today abourd tho Frederick VIII. Nor
weglun(llners, he said, would sail the seven He.isI(.nnd a line would be Inaugurated
between San Francisco and the Orient nnd tho west const of South America.
TURKEYS A LITTLE CHEAPER AT HATFIELD SALE
HATFIKLD, Pa., Nov. 27. First cholco turkeys were from a cent to a cent
and a half lower at tho second Hatfield turkey sale today than at the first IIutHeld
sale last Thursday. The first cholco birds brought 30 cents a pound. At the
previous sule the highest live weight price was 30.7. Some of tho first choice selec
tions of the various 100 lots sold for 28 cents und a. fraction n pound. Rut the
lowest price ut tho sate today was 2IU cents a pound. Dealers asserted tlutt tho
retail price of dresred birds In Philadelphia would be probably 4S cents a pound.
NEW ENGLAND RAILROADS SUED FOR $0,000,000
SPUINtlFlKLD, Mass.. Nov. 27 John Mnrsh, of Chicago, through counsel, to
day entered two suits aggregating $6,000,000 In actions of contract. One suit 'is
for $3,000,000 ngalnst the Southern New England Railroad Corporation. The other
suit Is for a similar sum and Is against the Southern New Kngland Railway, the
Central Vermont Railway and the Grand Trunk Railway of Canada.
HUGHES'S CAMPAIGN COST $2,iy,n65.03
WASHINGTON, Nov. 27. The RepubUcuu campaign In tho Interests of Charles
Evans Hughes cost $2,441,565.05, according to the statement died today with the
clerk of the House. Collections amounted to $2,445,421.19.
PRESIDENT'S COLD BETTER; SO HE GOES GOLFING
WASHINGTON, Nov. 27. 1'iesldcnt Wilson's cold had Improved so much today
that he went out in the open for the tlrst time In nearly a, week. He bjft thp
White House early to play golf, and was feeling much bettor when lie returned
to the White House.
MAN STRUCK BY AUTO IN CAMDEN DIES
Jacob Schmidt, Blxty years old, 2226 Federal street,- Camden, died this morn
ing at the Cooper Hospital as a .result of a fracture of the ahull received by being1
struck by an automobile us Iks was crossings Federal street near Twenty-fourth
during the storm last Thursday night. The driver, Samuel Traub, a confectioner,
of 701 Chestnut street, ivas arrested.
.
LANE DENIES ELECTION FRAUDS IN CITY
Chairman David ll! Lane, of tho Republican City, Committee, has Issued a,
statement denying that there was any fraud In the recent election. "The voting
lists were the cleanest we have ever hud In this city," Sir, Lane said, "The official
count disclosed the fact that only nineteen votes were disputed in the entjra city.
In no Instance was fraud proved, nor were ground for even puspUjion of 'fraud
established."
BARGE CAPTAIN SWEPT TO DEATH PN WAY TO PHILADELPHIA
The low qf the captain of tlio barge C. P. Kargcint waa reported today upon
arrival of the .vessel in port. The barge was being towed by the tu,s Paul Jones,
near the Winter Quarter Lightship, when the captain was washed overboard hj
a heavy sea early yesterday.
CHILD'S COMPANY TO PAY $69,000 IN DIVIDENDS
The Child's Companj, whlah operates
other fljties. has dcjtd an extra quarterly
$4.mwo ox semBwn !& Tb rguvr
iUm WeMift m H t tfas? jriMW
NEWS
M- 4 --JI 4 M, W.I-1-. . -A . n
restaurant here and in New yrk and
MidJd of tUt clt s, bgjr on the J
nmHmy immmh awaeWhw p, it
mm mBBB&HPt sft
r ,
W00DT0FIGHF
RECEIVPPLEA;
SC.18
Answer to Suit Filed - in;.;
Dauphin County
Court
DENIAL IS ENTERED
TO O'NEIL CHARGES
Pension Mutual President
Claims State Sanction '
for Merger
DEPARTMENT IS ACCUSED
Avora Probe Will Show Compa
nies to Bo in Sound (
Condition
fiv a Staff Corretremfesr ,
HARRISBURd, Nov. 27. liyndpn D,
Wood, "Insurance wtard of America," pro
moter and president ot tho Pension Mutual
I.tfn Insurance Company, of Pittsburgh,
todny charged, in his answer to the appli
cation of State Insurance Commissioner 'J.
Denny O'Nell to havo that company dbt
solved, that tho Insurance Department In
the fall of 1915 was cognizant ot tho fact
that his company, was proposing n merger
nnd consolidation of Insurance companies.
The answer of the Pension Mutual was
filed III the Court of Common Pleas of Dau
phin County Just as Deputy Attorney General
William R. Hargcst was about to appear
before Judges Kunket and McCarrell for ll
receiver. -
Wood appeared In, person In court, but ,
took no part In the proceedings. He Bi.t
near several policyholders. The company
was represented by Stephen H. Stone, of
Pittsburgh, and former Senator JosephA.
Thompson, of Deavcr Falls, who Is a direc-'
tor of the Pension Mutual Life Insurance
Company,
BLAMKS DEPARTMENT
After reciting the history of the Penslpn
Mutual, the company In. Its answer, which
Is signed by "Lyndon D. Wood,", saya la
part!
This respondent avers that early In
the fall of 1915 It Called 'the. attention ,
of the ' representatives 'of. the Jnsf '
nnce .Department of-P,4nnaylvanla tq,s
proposed merger and tahBolldatlort'unT'"
Jer the laws.. oH.Pennsylvanla between
It, the said Pension Mutual Life Insur
ance Company, nnd .two Or more pbrin
sylvania corporations engaged In sim
ilar business of Issuing policies or cell
tracts' of Insurance on the Uvea of in
dividuals; that front that time until
the present tlmo this respondent has
' been enoournged by the State Depart
ment of Insurance to complete and ar
range. In all tho various details, the
said consolidated nnd merger.
In line with this proposed consolida
tion und merger, nnd with the fUll
knowledge of tho representatives of the
Department of Insurance of Pennsyl
vania, this respondent has purchased
or otherwise obtained the majority
stock Interests In two or more Penn
sylvania corporations engaged In the
business of Issuing- policies or contracts
of Insurance on the lives of Individuals.
Tthe end that a full and complete,
fair and reasonable plan may be per
fected applying to all 'three of the
Pennsylvania corporations referred to.
It becomes necessary, to have settled
In a. final and legal way the questions
Continued en Taie Fear, Column roar
TWO ELECTION OFFICERS
SENTENCED FOR FRAUD
Heavily Fined for Irregularities
in April Primaries in
Delaware
W!UIINGTONDeL( Nov, S7 Harry T.
Rowers and William G. Farm, Republican
election ofllcers, who pleaded guilty to con
spiracy to bring -about gross irregularities
at last April's primary election, Vere sen
tenced In Genera) Sessions Court today to
pay fines ot $250 each and the cost of the
prosecution.
Judge Boyce, 'in sentencing the men, toolc
occasion to say that frauds perpetrated at
a primary election were of equal. If notr
superior, enormity to those at any ether
election. He declared that It was the State's',
duty to seek out and punish all such off
fenders Just (he same as If the offense had
been committed at a general election, be
cause the 'sccurltr of the ballot was as de
pendent upon clean primaries as clean elec
tions otherwise.
By reason of the fact that one of the de
fendants had been 111 and Is now 111, Court
refrained from Imposing; Jail sentences.
NEWPORT SOCIETY SCANDAL l
Mrs. Henry Plerrep'ont Perry Brings,.
4 Divorce Suit
NEW YORK, Nov. ST. The maritit aWr
of the Henry Plerrepont Perry whose mar-'-ije
in J 99B wok an elaborate fucUU AV4lU
hit the rocks today when Mrs. .Perry
w.vugiit uu)t (of divorce Btd the custody
"of their two small .sons. She named "an
unknown woman" as corespondent and tha
Wellington Hotel as the place,
Tho Perrys have been leadsrs in N$s '
port social circles tP years. .
" ' 't '
Alleged Slayer HeM Without Ball,
Antonio P.rlnjrUil, twenty-four years ok, ,
of Latvia street near fifteenth, vno tb :
police say shot aod killed CUrenc) CwrtU. ,
a negrp, of ait Sooth. Juniper street,
held without ball for a further htaxjua; afc
next Friday, by Magistrate Mecteary. ta
Central Station, thw morning.
U. SI Submarine- N-i Launch
HRipOEPORCoali,. -. -fU-
smtiv v-k-m
m.
$
I fln SsBwSSSHBHF. .''R ?Bt TWJHwfe. 9k
