THE WEATHER FORECAST.
Partly overcast and warmer to-day and
to-morrow; southerly winds.
Highest temperature yesterday, 36: lowest, as.
Detailed weather, mat! andenarlne roporti on pace 11.
IT SHINES FOPv ALL
VOL. LXXXIV. NO. 88.
NEW YORK, MONDAY, NOVEMBER 27, 1916. Copyright, 1916, by the Bun Printing and PubUihtng Asioctatinn.
ONE CENT
In (irreler N.'W Terk, 1
Elsewhere
Jersey City and Newark. I TWO I KNTH.
Ssutu
VILLA BANDITS
LOSE FOOTHOLD
IN CHIHUAHUA
Gun Fire Ousts Small Force
Fighting From a
Church.
CHIEF SHELLED BY
CAPITAL GAUIUSON
Abandons His Automobile,
Scarred and Battered,
for a Horse.
THKEK DAYS FIGHTING
IN STREETS OF CITY
Outlaw Chief Expected, to
Take to the Hills After
Severe Defeat.
Cimu'Aiit'A Citt, Mexico. Nov. 2S,
U Mnrf.1, Tex., .Nov. 116. I.ate yestor-
iav afternoon a small bund of Villa '
bt4its took u foothold In the Church
if Santa Itlo do C.iiad.ilupe. They I
were driven out by gunfire from their
stronghold and cavalry dispersed them.
The night was spent In expectation
of the last desperate uttuck. which did
not materialize. In the morning of to- ;
dy small groups of enemy cavalry .
trc shelled by the urtlliery of Santa '
Jose Hill.
Yestrrdny afternoon Villa drove up In ,
W automobile to within ubout three
lies f the city from the northwest.
The Carranza troops shelled the bandit
(tiicf. nuking several bits. Villa aban- ,
doned the machine near Fresno, south-
west of the city, and rode unay'on,
horseback. Shell holes unj bullet marks !
tre plainly ,cen on the sldcn of tho big j
automobile wblih he abandoned.
Marlril on Hnturdny.
The luttlo of Saturday started mon
liter the telegraphic communication with
Juarez was cut. At 10 A. M. the bandits' ,
ittsilr covered the entire southern front
flanking operations to the ruxt und
ft. The most desperate fighting oc
curred on Karoo avenue within th city.
The banditti threw their ItvH eiulied
forc against the Ititrcnchments which
hiil been throw 11 up across this street
and street lighting followed. Then Hi
trenchmentH were the key to the defences
of the clt proper.
The ilc facto Infantiy met these
chargi's with counter charges and the
battle waged back and forth In thl nar
row, street until the bandits wero driven
out of the mouth of the avenue onto tho
plains, where they were raked with ma
chine gun tire from the housetops nnd
th artillery tire, which had supiwrtcd
fffeeilvcly the infantry efforts.
Jen Trcvlno Is prepared for (mother
general assault, although the Indications
to-day weto that the em my would not
Hack again. At the time this message
despatched by courier there were
ti'i bandits to be seen west of the city.
O'n. Carlos Ozuna's cavalry charges In
till - direct, on completely freed this sec
tor of Villa forces.
llemy Losses Ill-ported.
Tim lo .scs on both sides aro reported
to ! heavy as some of the fighting dur
ing ihe p.ist twenty-four hours has been
l'not li.ind to hand encounters. The
Hounded who fell outside of the city
(odd not be lescucd from tho "no man's
land" hejond tho first lino trenches bo
raupe of the firing by both tho bandits
nd the liovrrument forces. Tho troops
on l)lh the Jiandlt and Government sides
ppcar very tired after threo days of
slmost constant fighting. Tho (iovern
mfnt forces, 'however, are In good spirits.
Sen. Maycotte, who left Santu Itosalla
with .1.51)0 cavalry, Is expected to reach
terc soon to drive off the remaining
handlts. No figures showing the casual
ties nn either tdde during the threo days
fighting are yet available.
Villa Is expected to withdraw soon to
the hills, as his forces have been scat
tred hy the shell nnd rlllo tire of the
facto forces and his efforts to cap
ture the city nro growing loss and less
forceful.
Officers of Gen. Trevlno's general
'tail expect to disperse the remaining
rorces tlf t)l0 bandits nnd declare the
lluatlon will bo completely cleared by
"night. Villa la bellexed to have
I'ariitd of tho advance nf tho Carranza
"valry under Gen. Maycotte.
VO WORD IN JUAREZ.
Coimntiiilrntion With C'lilliiiulma
t'lty Cut onr.
Kt. I'aso, Tex., .Nov. 20. Telegraphic
to-nmunlcallon had not been established
I'Hween Chihuahua city and Juarez up
i" c o'clock this nfternoon. When In
ornied of a rinrnr In Kl Paso that Chi
n'iahii.i had fallen Iwfore Villa's attacks
Andrei Garcia, Inspcctor-General of
"onsuiates, who has been at Juarez,
talr ;
"There has been absolutely nothing re
"Ivcd to Indlcato such nn event, nnd we
control the only nvallablo sources of In
rormatlon. Vrom our ::nowledgo of tho
orrnccs of Chihuahua and of Oen. Tre
vinoH lesourccs in men and arms, wo
co not fce any uneasiness."
"arly this morning Mib. W. K. Hatch
'II. wife of Uio liaptist missionary at
Juari', heard several artillery shots,
"'Honed by a long volley ot musketry.
o reason for tho outbreak wiih vouch
"fed by the Oarranzlsta officers.
rORTY DAYS TOO LONG.
'leilran Lender at O1I1U Over
I'ersblna'a Wltbdravral.
Qt'EinrrAno, Mexico, Nov. 26. High
Mexican offlrlalH who uro hero to attend
the constitutional convention are st '.I
""altlng tho full text of tho border con
'fo! protocn fclgncd In Atlantic City last
'(k and tho full text of Secretary
Lane's statement defining In part tho
policy of the United States Government
towurd Mexico before they will make
any comment on either.
There Is evidence, however, that the
now i of the protocol and o' Secretary
CealeaaieeVflav B1Q4LJP&6$mJt&tJ
nnun run nvnfififi
Accused of Complicity in Mur
der of Frederick Strauss,
Jan. !), ion,
Dopey Benny" Fein, the gangster
Whoso, testimony to the District Attorney
a year ago Inst summer led to tho Indict
ment of thirty labor leaders on charges
or having hired times to Incite riot nnd
comtnir nssault In tha cloakmakcrs'
strike, wns nrrestcd last night on a
charge of homicide.
He was accused of having been Impli
cated In the murder of Frederick Strauss,
tho aged clerk of the New York City
Court, on the night of January S, 1H.
This asc. which has occupied the ntton
n of Assistant District Attorneys
pooling and Joyrc ror nearly three years,
has so far remained one of the city's
mysteries.
Tony Dyke nnd Harry Lenny, leaders
of a faction that opposed Denny's own
gang, were holding a ball at Arlington
Hall, In St. Mark's place, that night.
They stepped Into tho street from tho
half entrance for a moment, and a group
of unidentified men opened a fusillade
with revolvers from across the street.
Lenny and Dyke were unhurt, but Mr.
Strauss, passing on his way to a lodge
meeting, ilropited dead. It was said
some of those In front of the hall held
him before their own bodies as a shield.
80 far Assistant District Attorney
Joyce has obtained the Indictment of
six men and a woman for the killing and
"Dopey Denny" makes the seventh under
arrest.
HELEN KELLER IS
EXPECTED TO WED
Friends Believe She and Peter
I'lignn Wait, for a Pro
pitious Time.
i labor reform. In peace work. In the de- closure that a further tax win due the fcur times as much as Ohio and six times Harvard ami between the Army and the
llnawiv v r. i. ..i , 'fence of criminals she considered un- Uovemment In C3 per cent, of the re- 1 ns much ns Massachusetts, The Second . Navy addeil at least $750,0(10 to the In--,i
.ii i . '.. " ""' . ..;ct Justly nccUHCd. In nil kinds of radical 1 turns Investigated, nn average of $200 , district of 'New York paid oncUth of come of the hotel men this clear outside
ili-ii .innini ... . " . ...
tlL k t v.LK ' 0tMi,
wnrwi, Kt,'i"i " . V. .C.r.,i:n,'?Hn,'..a.H0 ll1.
Mrs John a: Mac her 'llfHongcom:
.'.Vm e'iV",?;
l"i "u fled intl beHeve that fhe I'mmlJ
se.dl.tr M
.Mrs. Mary 1ms eft Went ham for
Iike l'lacid to icgaln her health. Miss
u'.u ........ i .iirHiiK. irirniuy manner mane her very
spend the .winter with her . Thir and !
other teatl.e.l nnd lecovor her health I
Mr. KaganHs'at Tampa. Pla.. with a
brother Socialist, who was announced as i
the minister who would perform tho wed-'
ding ceremony. i
llefore each left ISoston positive de-
nlals of any marriage Intentions were j
made. In the fare of these denials, how-
ever. It was declared nt City Hall that deal of good work iimong the hhi- chil-'
-applications for marriage Intentions had dren of the city. She nlen made a name'
been Hied Jut previous to the de-1 for herself as an athlete, for she was
parture of .Mis Keller and Mr. Pagan, captain of her class hockey team, which
At that time It was stated that Miss1 won the college championship, and was
Keller and Mr. Kagau would go outh to ' on the 1309 truck team. It-was while
be married. It was nlso said th.tt the j on thl team that she set a new record
marriage plans luir caued friction 1. for mtttng the eight pound shot, with a
tween the blind woman and Mrs. Macy. mark of "1 foot '4 inches.
It Is said that Miss Keller and Mr. , Her Socialist convictions were a sur-'
l'agait had planned to marry iiulctly and prise to her friends, for she was the i
title the publicity given to the friendship ' daughter of n well-to-do man, John K
between Miss Keller nnd Mr. Kagan has i Mllholland of New York. She was one
resulted In causing Mrs. Macy and Miss i of two children. Vlda, her sister, is a
Keller to become 111, few years younger nnd less active In
The romance besan when Miss Keller, leform work. Her chief Interest Is sing
wiin Is also a Socialist, engaged Mr. Ing. '
r.tgnu as her fecieturv. They were In- The very year after her graduation .
troduced, It Is said, by the husband of Inez was nn'ested while picketing wlllij
Mrs, Macy. lie Is also a Socialist. j some lrl shirtwaist strikers. Perhaps
Mr. Kagan Is no longer the wretary t It was her desire to know Just how far
of Miss Keller, hut their friends believe she could go In such undertakings that
that when the present affair has blown , decided her to study law. She tried In I
over the cmipln will meet somewhere In I vain to enter the llarvatd law i-chool,
the South and wed as they bad first ' and finally look n course In the New j
planned. j York Law School. 1
DIET SQUAD GAINING WEIGHT.
unchanged, while tho losses, except In Ihe
case of Hr. A. .1. Stokes, the heavyweight 1
of the squau, were unuer une pound earn.
Dr. Stokes, who weighed 2231, pounds 1
before undertaking the experiment, has'
wTr Mm".S!
sen. who began with HM pounds nnd
has acquired two and a half pounds ad -
dllional flesh
To-morrow's, menu will comprise:
HttKAKKAST:
Htew-sd Aprlents
Corn Meal Muih Uuttered Toait
i.'offrn
licNffli
Jlacarnnl nn (irstiu Heels
llrrml utiil llulter
Cottage I'uJdliig with Chocolate Puuce
DINNIIlt!
Celery Houp
Cniinclon of llrpf Turktah Tilaf
lire. ill und Illltter
Apple Cobhlsr snd Vnnllla Satire
Tea
CARRANZA'S INSIDE MEN.
Ilr Unit Six llmUssrle In the
lluerln CniiKrr II .it Appenrs.
QutRKTAlio, Mexico, (via Galveston),
Nov. 26. A credentials revising com
mission, composed of fifteen members,
including six Congressmen under tho
Madcro regime, known ns "Kcnovn
dotes," was appointed at tho second ses
sion of tho Constitutional Assembly held
.Saturday morning.
There was considerable debate over
tho political responsibilities of the
"Itenovadores" because they had con
tinued In the Ilucrla Congress after tho
death of Modern. 'They were finally ac
cepted, however, when a message was
read from Carranza, stating tho six
men had remulned In tlio Huerta Con
gnus upon his (Carruuza's) Instructions.
Their purposo whs to obstruct work of
the Huerta b'ody. preventing If posslblo
the securing of a foreign loan, and to
bring ubout tho complete dissolution of
the Congress.
ThlH was received with applause by
the deputies and opposition to the
"Itcnovadorez" ceased.
Colonel nt S3 Ueta V. C.
London, Nov. 26. Temporary Lieut.
Col. It. H. Bradford, who haa won tho
Victoria Cross, is only 23 year old. Ho
rapid ha lx-'cn Ills promotion that he
ha not yet been gazetted above the
rank of Second Lieutenant.
HI older brother, a Captain won the
Distinguished Service Order com months
ago.
When one ceme heme llred thtr I noth-
if."""jrr " "
A,rrr Incrra.r or Mc i o..- v. li" " " MlnfoU nVlntln M'1 "l "a' mOV'"B "'CtU'e hlU"" Wl" r'' l"r"-'1 ,At ,h AVr 7r,nP. 'V M"chc"- "VmlzUlst circles asuert that the pro- German cavalry is ,epo,.ed .,. Iiavo
M.on After I'.ii.rlh llay. tori Ikr tl"l Tiv' the tlefence of 1 3 o'clock this nfternoon. In to-day's dure the measure nt the forthcoming j helm manaRed to n"f 'V'" , x Iai..t.l Gove.nmcnt declared war been In action In open KhuL of th"
Cllli-Aoo. Nov. 2.-Thete was a net Ited Phil Davidson. barged with theght he lettered his own llmo for the session of the legislature. , i," patronage "of 2.(00 If ho had i''v', ,1:,T? "' l",''p"t the entry of old -a,s dihlng a ,livfi.,M r l!,m.,,n.n
gain of five pounds In the aggregate murder ot the gangster Hlg .lack Zellg. ' ,WiUll nying slxty-flve I Mr. Welsh made a statement to this J.p,! , nbl" to find a way aVound the old 1 f'n intXeted ,s 1' not'liV.:,'! v'.me1' o'o-'lh '' "1 V " "'N
vvelght of the twelve members of the ljtrr she took the caso of ' I n,nes from New Haven hero In 55 mln-1 effect tn-nlght, supplementing It with tho rule of physics that tho container must , Z U v r lu vw IVrtt me t 'r""""s ,h" ,!l '" ',,,;-
ruCiS!? 'on0a"fo,,'nce,u,se ff;ffioni1 UU,n that he would figh, for the MWr, rf "i,,,. Vo IMlkenhaMfs p., , .., , ,
Six of the twelve showed gains In weight! obtaining his acquittal. Meut. Thaw was unaccompanied on Ills passage of the measuie with even tlio liotol had ever accommodated. It ,.":'? ! !'i?..!;r!'i",! . nenn.m plan Is being carrl. ,1 i i,. wilt
desnlte tho restricted diet. Two were, lietween times sho went over to l.ng- ,., .,i ur,., ..,u. crenter znal than chnr.ieterlie,! li.'u.. n .mn. .n ih. mii.r nii linnun ... . ,s "ow '""ally at war with ; macliincllko stirencss, tho rapid t'irut of
;iNEZM.BOISSEVAIN
-t, , .
LlltS IN LUS ANuGLdo
Six Mood Transfusions Fall to
Save Wclfaro Worker and
Suffraprist.
BODY TO HE SENT EAST
Lawyer's Husband, Parents
and Sister Were at Bedside
at the End.
Li Anuei.es, Cal., Nov. 56. Mrs. Inez
Mllholland llolssevaln of New York,
widely known as a welfare worker and
suffragist, died In a hospital hero shortly
before midnight last night. Her hus
band. Kugen llolssevaln: her parents
Mr. and Mrs. John H. Mllholland. and
her sister, Miss Vlda Mllholland, were at
her bedside when the end came.
Miss Vlda Mllliolland had twice given
uiuou ior irunstusloti Into her sister'
body and on four other occasions friends '
had submitted to the ordeal, but In each
case a relapso followed temporary lm-1
r. vnieiii. a sinKlllff SPCII Set 111 latei
yesterday afternoon.
Arrangements were completed to-day
to send the body of Mrs. Holssevaln to
her home In New York to-Wirrow night
for burial. No funeral services will bo
held here. It was announced. Many
messages of sympathy were received to
day by members of the family from
friends and prominent workers In the
woman suffrage cause.
Mrs. Inez M. llolssevaln was 30 cars
oiu, naving oecn born here on Aug.
j o. jaso. remaps there never was a Kill
" iimny tilings IHiracicd so
much attention, unu ni.n.,ei1.,l l.. i.m.1. I
spaco In the iiewsiiapcrs In the brief. 10 per cent. InHlte number of persons ready about crowded to capacity. Kx
space of eight years as she. It wns In who rnjiy the Urger Incomes up to Now York' paid one-fourth of all the pcrlenced hotel men figured that an av
isos that she was graduated from Vat-, $500,000 a year. roiiiomtlnn Income taxes, yielding more rrage nf $10 was spent by every one of
sar College, yet slnco that time her uc. A nlea for more Investigators innde than twice ns much as IViinsj lvaula, these football devotees, w hlch meant that
I tlvitles In th tuifYrntrn i,,..fl.nat.t i. I
JUB,,J nvvunru, in nn Kinns ot rail cat
""' humanitarian work made her one
f the best known women In America,
denes' verr!wke:;hwhne 'slVln
'ne::s"o!!,?e
f"""1 ' ''or Socialist Jiropaganda
lM
- ." r"
to break out. Her beauty and her
I''mm.'!!". hf "tl.er students, and
" -Mllholland was pretty Hire to have
" following In whatever she did.
. .
BefrlendrU Poor Children,
Aside from her suffrage and soclalls-
tic activities, she had herself appointed
probation ntllcer of I'nughkeepsle while
still an uiiderEindunte. nnd did a ureal
Itrenn I'rncller of l.niT.
, She began the pi nt tlce of law linmedl-1
hand and gavo active help to Mrs. l.in-1
incline Pnukhurst. the militant suura-1
gist. Ill this country no miu-u neisru
with Mrs. Harriot Stanton match's I
League for Self-supporting Women, and .
Wln,. W,MLTh"!5. "irVS ,
out of that organization. No suffrage
parade was complete without Inez M";
tot anu. mr wmi nei inn wmii "
JK Sffi 1 MSX'JSa !
an Ideal figure of the typical American
woman.
Murrle n Ytiiiim llollnnder.
Her name was often mentioned In
connection with this or that New York
bachelor, but flic gave the Impression
of caring much more for her work than
for marriage, and It wna n surprlso
when. In 1913, word camo from Kngland
that she had married. In London, n
young Hollander named lltigen llolsse
valn. It was a surprise even to her
parents, but In a few weeks tho couple
arrived In America, and tho only draw
back to tho bride's happiness was tho
fact' that hy marrying an nllen sho had
lost her citizenship, and consequently
her vote, when women should get the
ballot, However, her husband promptly
took steps to bo naturalized.
Marrlngo didn't prevent Mrs. Holsse
valn from keeping very active In her
various Interests. Sho practised her pro
fession of law, having nn office still
with Mr. Osborne. She worked con
stantly with Mrs. O. H, p. Itelmont for
suffrage. About thlH time sho mndo her
fnuioUH assertion that "housekveplng
only took ten minutes of her day."
"Wrnt mi I'ord Peace Vojagr,
Mrs, Itolsi'cvitln was nn nrdent paci
fist, and sailed wllh Henry Kord on IiIh
peace ship, but left It at Stockholm, de
claring sho could not tolerate tho "un
democratic methods" of Its mnnagement.
Later she wont to Italy as a newspaper
correspondent, but was compelled to
leave that country. The story was told
that other correspondents protested be
cause u woman was permitted to-go Into
thn trenches, hut Mrs. llolssevaln said
(he Italian authorities objected to her
pacifist writings.
Mrs, llolssevaln' most recent work
bad been with the Congressional Union
nan iierii wnu me wongressiooui union
for woman Suffrage, and It wn while
speaking through the West for thn
Woman's party, urging women voters
to oppose Wilson because ho hnd not
pushed the Federal amondmrnt through
Congress, that hn becamo III through
overstraining her throat.
She also was a member of the Politi
cal Kquallty league, the National Child
!abor ffommlttee, the Women' Social
and Politic-) Union of England and the
n,in.h v.bi.. fluv
TWICE AS MANY MEN
HAVE YEARLY INCOMES
OF $20,000 TO $500,000
Individual Tax Shows Jump in Twelve Months of
$27,000,000 to $67,943,294 Internal Revenue
Figures Reflect Nation's Prosperity.
Washington', Nov. 26. Prosperity of
tho United States Is reflected In the re
port of the Commissioner of Internal
Itevctiue for the last fiscal year, made
public to-day. There was an Increase
In the total receipts from Internal rev
enue In tho year ended June 30 last of
$97,042,263, the total amount collected
being $512,723,167.
Increases In tho receipts from the In
come and corporation taxes, tho direct
result of prosperity, contributed a large
share of this. Corporation tax receipts
showed nn Increase of $18,000,000 over
the returns of the preceding year, while
receipts from the Individual Income tax
showed a Jump of $27,000,000, amount
ing In the year to $67,943,294. The In
crease In tho Income lax for the first
,,"nr,!r f the current fiscal ear was
'"3()'00 over the same period last jcar.
v'r $19,000,000 of the Increase In
..viiv ma ictcipia mine iruru uiusc
with net Incomes of $20,000 or more.
The amount received f m tho tax on
Incomes from $20,000 to $50,000 showed
a gain of about 60 per cent, over the
preceding year and a like percentage of
Increase obtained ns to' Incomes between
$75,000 and $100,000.
Vast Incomes Increase IOO P. c.
The amount derived from Incomes be-
tween $50,000 and $75,000. on incomes
between $100,000 and $250,000. on In-'
comes from $250,000 to $500,000 nnd on
incomes exceeding, isuo.uoo dounied In
inn nss.u year over tne preceuins '
VMP. nhmtlni? thrA ivnn an lnrn.o nt (
It, ihA rtmrt n n rntt nf ti.A .na. ,
' turns investigated, an nvi
Increase In the tax being
leach Investigation.
derived from
Investigation of delinquents resulted
In securing returns In 52 per cent, of Ihe
cases looked up with nn average leld of
$30 In the tax collected. These amend
ments to the Income tax law arc urged:
To tciiulie returns of annual gto""
Income of $3,000 or over Instead of
annual net Incomes nf like amounts.
To require- that teturns of Income
be filed In the district In which the
person making the return or for whom
the return Is made has his legal rrii
deuce. To provide authority to enable
United Btates consular nWeers tb
make under the direction of the com
missioner examinations and Inquiries
concerning the Incomes nf American
citizens residing within their respect
ive consular district' and compel at
tendance and testimony within the
power of the Vnlted States similar to
A. B. THAW MAKES
FAST AIR VOYAGE
IIMHI'IIK rnaeeompailicd From
New Haven to Mincola in
Fifty-five Minutes.
i
llKMPSTKin. L. I., Nov. 2(1. Lieut,
Alexander Hlnlr Thaw of the l-lrst New
York lcnal Corps who Hew yesterday
.. . .. . '. .
to the line liowi in n iurn" i......i-.
(.oml!c(1( C rmlm trp when be vol-'
'
teau t. joiu.s.h,. ..r, ... ..-
American aviators in uio i-ri-m-n rijins
abandoned the air machine In
' ' automobile on account '
T,STSSa On th. w y ,. New j
Hnv,n yesterday, flying nt a height of1
i . .. f, ,,oth nwn Wero .0 benumbed
i . ... .i. ., .i.i,i ,h. tiv ttiHt
"".Wohtuon had both cheeks frost bit-1
ten.
...... n-i.... vn. iin.p.n n
i.ieui. limn- in i"
minutes after 2 o'clock this afternoon
. ... ...i.,.i i,., I., i,.,. hi.,, .!,,
Willi 11 Ptli'lll. in'"! ,,. i.,,ih ,n,i, ,.,,.,,.
He kept a trlllo lower than estctday. nt
an altitude of 4,000 feet average, nnd
steered by compass. The trip was with-
out Incident.
William Thnw, the American aviator
who won fnme ns n member of the
Kronch aviation service, also came back
!,. V, lUirn In ililV llflfr llOfllll- IIIH
Yale-Harvard game, but lie did not make
either leg of the Journey by air. Thaw
had planned to fly to thn bowl, but gave
un the attempt after he hnd started nut
Yale. Harvard game, but lie did not iiiiiko
up tho attempt after he hnd started nut
In nne of the Citttlss army blplaiuti, ,'V17,
Thaw In Ills work In Franco became, 'Ihe present law under which Sun
accustomed entirely to (he stick control 1 ' moving plctuto ehnws were declared
u.cd In the small Trench scouting planes. HleRal was enacted by the legislature
lie found himself awiiwaru in Handling
the Curtlss machine with Its Deperdus.ln
...0tn, nn.t nfter uettlnir ns fn r
... Illrkavllh, landed ngalii at Hempstead!
and went by nutomouiie to tne game.
;
Lieut. Alexander Hlnlr Thaw cx-
..,..I..A.1 ... ..no II, nt l.n ItRfl l.n. t,Lf, u
. lllll. ni i,,-,,,,j in... ,," ... ..v.. ..,, ....j
t.9 IIia f,tll.Mll pumn nu tena
believed, The field In which he had fn
In ml nt New Haven wus so kinall lie
could not rise from It with the additional
,.-lolit of a nassenger lo nnernte a
camera, so he flew alono over the grid-1
ro,
tvd oiTT nr TlAWTCU TMTtTFO
rUxv SA lit unaioa laillXJi.
ItllisUaB'a CommUaloii Fnvnra Ural
With United Mate.
.'peci'll I'oble littpalri In Tin Six mm tte
London limn,
Lonpon, Nov. 26. A special despatch
to tho rimea from Copenhagen says that
the commission nt tun iiigsdag pa. re
ported favorably on the question of tho
, ,h ..nl.h Wel indie.. i n,
7.,,i.ej Ktatrs. f"
Tho Liberal and IlndU-il Socialist ma
Jorlty nr" In favor of the sale of the 11
unds, while the Conrervatlvo minority
o uralnst It. A plebiscite W II li
akeJ m I)embcr II. Ilivond iouw
niZwnfTantlonth. i?:
.ri iha dnnalph avH
Pr,( ,he o'Ptcli. ayn.
snNMrrr hotklh ana am v nv.
litStlBffi
.1
the provisions nppllcablo to examina
tions and Investigations provided to bo
made by Internal revenue agents.
That the provisions of law requiring 1
tha withholding of the normal tax at .
the source of the Income be repealed
except as to the Incomo of non-resident
nllen Individuals and corporations re
ceived from the sources In the United
States and that provision for Informa
tion at the source be provided.
Total Itrtarns to lie Larger.
The Commissioner estimates that the
total Internal revenue tax returns for
the current year will yield $GS7.ooo.ouo,
of which $124,000,000 will come from
the emertenev' or' war revenue taxes,
which Include the additional 50 cents a
barrel on fermented liquors, the tax on
munition manufacturers and estate taxes.
The Commissioner estimate that the
total returns from the Income tax will
be $241,750,000. of which $111,750,000
wlll come from tho tsx on Individual In-
comes and the remainder from the cor-,
poratlon taxes. Ho estimates that the
n'K June 30 next will nmount to $709.-
650.000. the principal Increase being, as I
timatW . from tho emenjency I
total receipts for the fiscal year Degtn-
1 ', , . ,. ,., ,
Lccrwrate of the Internal revenue taxes .
L.nii.Pi.,t ! Slat, nf New York naldinn,mn tne "engnted proprietors hart
mum thnu nne.iirih and the second dls-
irin f x.w Ynrlc contributed one-
twelfth.
. ,. , . ...
n.ipiv fhrp tlniM .in iiiticli as IlUnolf:.
all the corporation income taxes col-,
lected in the United States.
The State of New York paid tie:
inc .-tate ot .e- iorh j.am or.iw
half of all. the Individual Income taxes
collected, j'ieldlng nearly five times as
much ns Pennsylvania, iiearlv six times
as much as Illinois, more than ttcven
tlmeti as much ns Massachusetts and
eight times as much as Ohio. More than
nne-Mfth or all the revenue ueriven trom
Individual Income taxc came from the
inUIVIOUai income mxi-n Citoio Hum vov
Second Internal revenue district of New
Yprk. Aa a revenue producer the Km-.
Plre State has other claims on puhllc
attention. She produced tho largest
quantity nf fermented liquors and had
the largest production of crsarettcs.
,h.r.
loere
The Commissions reports that
wan a phenomenal Increase In tho pro-
ductlon of cigarettes. The production of
distilled spirits In the last fiscal year In-
creased 50 per cent over
of the precedlrK year.
th. t,rn.itiAi,,n
'
WILL RENEW FIGHT
FOR SUNDAY MOVIE
i
, , , ...
I ASxPmlllyilinn CSl f Al-
liany Promises to Brinir
Fp Bill Asrnln.
i Ai.iunv. Nov. 2, Assemblyman Chvr
ence V Welsh of Albany, who chain
i pioned at the last session of the Iulsla- distance of Manhattan Many were sent
i iurn ..ni ,...-i .,.. .in.n.'tn the Hotel Hobert Treat In Newark
m
ties nuthorlty to permit or prohibit Sun-
, ,.,..,,,,, . , ,, , ,
.....
...,.....
Picture fans that ho carried this fight
to the very close of the session.
M, one of the blg figures ,u ,e
Legislature. In the face of tho Utorg -
. est opposition last ear he succeeded In
! Iinvlni: naasetl xeteml bllla nrovlillnir fur
ry-r, tralnin, in the
rirsi vo.irs or nis lees ti.ivn Hervie..
first
I....,:. ,.,... . . "
or igni mm into ine ptinuo eye.
"Pub c sent nent favors the evien nn
- -
or the principle of lionie rule to mimlcl.
Palilles a far as moving pictures ure
' om crneo, .... m , a.ui hub is pic
. cisci.v wnai t i mil noes, it provide
"'at municipalities be empowered to de.
terinlne whether or not they want mov-
iniuiro snows on Miin.iay. This
"'-""" iliM.-ii Illillirr ot loca
mhoilihuu, 1 ""'w ""oics
uiiin nistration. i nn governing bodies
"f th M'vernl cities know heller than
the Legislature what the sentiment of
I'eopln of their cities Is In litis
i""i-i,i . .i.nn m in nun
'""" '", " ""- iniiiiinn
, '10 Popularity they now enjoy Present
! conditions accordingly dciiiaiid more ad
vanccd legislation. My bill provides
a..,., letrlalii 1 11,1. "
such legislation."
lllllRlmliltnii llouar Clnard.
, .
III VII II A MTU V. V. V. V,i,' "C. --..t
one of tho city's nineteen motion plctute
theatre was open to-day an the result
of orderM given by Mayor Frank Tritltt
I based on Wednesday' decision of the
Appellate Idvlslnu of the Huprenic Court. 1
I The movlo men will make no effort here,
in ugiii inn cane, nicy compiled with
. "", "'or M orders without argument,
' Trultt was elected on liU promises to
I close tho thentrcii on Sunday.
nv.VV wmWVS AW AITrnMnnrTX-
tr -. MMvaew w , Vi'l - a a a ' ' j
I In a led liy llenillluht
Into Draper Car,
i'oi.p SrntNii, N. Y Nov. 26. name
.... ... ;.. ..'i,. ' . . ' ",,r:1
'":" ".' ,", " "",
rarcus or n nig muioncer which plunged
unu ,ii, iuhuiiiuhiii: hi inu miiRiiraj oe-
fore daybreak und wrecked It near
Preksldll village.
. ' 1. . ny Algernon
"'a',er.,of l0H,er' N' J" WJI' howling
I P "V ?"'"""'.. road when the
uulK' 'merging iroin tne nrusn. got n
fro)1, Qf the rKr ThB nrtirchilghtH muvt
have dazzled It. for lounged headfore-
into the machine and wa. dragged.
unu,, ,, vm ,m im cjlia.uv.
IfllTV UX1. M AAA nnn
mil ntu pi,uvu,uui
FOOTBALL SKYLARK
N'cw Year's Evo Business Was
Eclipsed by tho Celebration
Saturday Night.
EVE BY PLACE JAMMED
Hotel Men Believe Occasion
Was Harbinger of Jlost
Prosperous Winter.
Ask any New York hotel proprietor
what his favorite sport Is and he wilt
ciulckly tell you football. Thanks to
the tremendous Inrush of visitors that
stayed In the city over Saturday to take
In the big football games between the
Army and the Navy at tho Polo arounds.
i1""1 between Yale and Harvard at New
'Haven, the hotels of New York enjoyed
n rfcor(1 , , , , f )ro,cr(.. a , hl
. " ' 1 u ' a nlg 11
' '0e ' ' " ",0 " "uslnc,., k they
c"p"' "
rJ hotel Hi's city broke Us rec-
y restaurant In tho Ilroadwny
" l,c. "ed money. The only reason
wh "otel keepers and restaurant owners
'"''."' """" "f"1
"day counting receipts with both
h'xn'u was ''ecauec they had employed
Dt young men to do the Job
for them. The wave of hie husl
simply engulfed Manhattan's taverns ami
(lan!'.ln resorts ?n Saturday night beat
c'r . I
. . 11 wa ""mated yesterday that the two
I big games brought to the city not less than
75,000 persons seeking hotel accommoda-
1 lions at a time when the hotels were nl-1
the annual cotitest tictween Yale and
of what was spent in the restaurants nt
, the counties, football cejebr.it Ions, nt
sncclal nrlvnto t.artles ami In tli iwual
."joj...k --w niy iukiu
"f?;
I'roDahiy Jl.nnn ono at a guess, was
scattered ..long Ilroadwny and In the
iiroauway amusement district, lietween
Thlrty-Udril and Seventy-second streets
iml Seventh and Park avenues, by the to remodel the transport to ns to
rolk that came here slmnlv for football!.... ,, ,, ...
, ,
I folk that came here simply for football
I . , . , . .
nml (o renew old friendships.
Y , t-'..itl.,i
, r" , " , . l" . '
The ce ebratlons of New Year's I?'
nrc usually reierren to oy notet n e t n hi
amusement purveyor as beacon lights
ot prosperity ns occasions whn people
... , ,
let the money fly: but Saturday night
K'Mivt ,i u i,,,,-, -ii tin-ir imii um unu
merely emphasizing as it did a week of
iinexaiiipleti goon luisiness. excelled any
excelled anv
New Year's vo celebration that the
hotel men could recall.
i:verH.dy In the hotel business en-
Jnyrd a slice of the wonderful Imslness
and mourned the fact that there was n
point beyond which accommodations
could not be stretched. At the Waldorf-
Astoria thev took care of l.BSrt persons
on Saturday night, the biggest night's
business In the Waldorf's career of morn
than a quarter of a rentury Proprietor
ltol.lt surrendtied his prlvnte apart-
ments. Cots were placed In banquet
rooms and assembly rooms. There
wasn't spotted with a cot.
I In tho week ended Saturday nigh! the
i Waldorf was (bilged to turn away
! nearly l.'.'un regular patrons, tin sat-
utdav night mon than 300 were ie-
i fused acconiniodatlons, although every 1
'effort was made to plaee them sotne-
wheie In Manhattan or wlthli. n-aclilng
. . e:iil.v Jersev
cm,.,.
' hostelrles. the Vanderbllt. the McAliiln.
M.,rliiue. the Park Avenue, the
the Martinique, the Park Avenue, the
, ('laridge nnd the Algonquin.
I Same Condition Wldespren.l.
I There are forty-two vvcnow n ,,,
1 el' ' . ..V ci , .. I. .1
' ,V '.',,', ''., e teourter. for 1K s w
; ..........
, JV" nn i VnT ,hV " 1 ,-' eon, ,
visited every on.! ot Ilieso e.u ly on .sal-
tllday lllght lltll lound Uio same
.11, ir.it i.T ulY,,!,.' ... eri'thltirr t..L..i, .iit.t
. ..... . .. . , ,.. .,
'iri iw mni ) "1 iirmi's.
T1,h0 ln,ps ,.,. i,llKr, , r,.IU-p
.....
' ilf'ionilliun.lliuil It' .11 leiini li-IMiir, lull
,10r managefs .I'd all that was possible
to assist the distressed, l!ellho wero
V(Ml ni-urrjlng through the districts f,i
i,v boarding houses, and probablv
:, ,l00 p(,rsnll., ,.r ablc to get beds tit
t.,. boarding houses.
Tu, ,T,Hli was as great uptown as It
, , ., Al till, llnlel Mi,lell.. I.
rentral Park W.st, sleeping room wus
; Central Par
found for 5
,, to si
. p, tho
riOO by converting the ball-
six bedrooms, by putting eight
,,. p, t Iir Louis ,VI, room ami by
I placing cots behind screens In tlio hall-1
ways .lay Price of smltlisvllle, Mo,
i herrrilliy paid tun price or n room for
a cot on the fifth floor. Charles Per
no.ver, one of the clerks, had reserved
rooms for a party of s-lx. Another clerk
had given the reservation to a party ar
riving before IVrnoyer's. Pernoycr took
the disappointed ones to his own homo
and then, returning to the Majestic, fin
ished the night on a chair.
The llclleclalr, which had been full
1 for a mouth, managed to squeeze In a
I few muro mid sent ubout 100 to board.
1 lug houses on the upper West Sido,
' llietton Hall found sleeping toom for!
'100. Tint Ansnnla nccinuniodated about
I, Ono nnd turned away 500. The St. An-
urew, witu -J'i mom.-., iiiuuc piaccs lor I
ton,
i From early on Saturday evening until
, 3 or 4 o'clock yesterday morning tlui
clerks In all of the hotels wero kept
"'iisy repeating tne tor iiuia. sorr5, hut
we haven't an Inch of room left" The
4 .u,.rlfitlnn tiuihif- -l.,, .
. : ,r , , wi m : ,
; . - . ."
tin, tremeo.lous Satitrdav tush arilved.
. . .
Tho s tuiti on with the restaurants
was expressed by Pat K.vnc, manager
of Murray m In rorty-second street
vviien ho wild that it was the biggest
, uiRM n ,ad ever seen In thirty years
experience. Practically every restaurant
In Manhattan exposed the "reservations
only" sign early In the evening. Ml.,-
rays opened the suites of bachelor
apartment on the upper floors, tilled
them witu tanica ami red hundreds In
CoNllnucd on TAIrd f opa.
NEW WARNINGS SENT
OF SUBMARINES NEAR
British Cruiser Off Sandy Hook
Warns All Outgoing Craft
to Avoid Lanes.
Ilcncwed warnings of the presence of
German rubmarlnes In Atlantic waters
near tho American shore were sent out
yesterday to merchantmen of the En
tente Allies.
Ono warning was flashed out at
o'clock last evening by wireless by the
lirltlsh cruiser I.nncastcr, said to be
stationed about fifteen miles southeast
of Sandy Hook. The message directed
nil merchant vessels to bo on the alert
and to show no mora lights nt night
than were necessary. Tho ships also
were directed to avoid the regular lanes
of travel so far as possible.
The American Line steamship Kroon
land. In yesterday fiom Liverpool,
picked up a warning which had been
sent out by a lirltlsh ship. Capt, liar
man, however, felt he had no causo for
alarm for he was flying the American
Hag nnd was carrying no contraband. I
llrltMi representatives In New York,
however, said they had received no 1
further word than had been made pub
lic on Saturday, There are several
lirltlsh ships duo In port to-day nnd to
morrow, nnd If the Herman submersi
ble are In the neighborhood they un
doubtedly are seeking those vessels or ,
sonic 01 tne munition laucn snips soon
to depart.
SAYS ALLIES FACE
CRISIS IN BALKANS
J
J. it Ctlirvill PedttrCS Blllgai'lll
' "
aild Turkey MUSt Bo
Eliminated.
LoNco.'i, Nov. 26. J. L. Garvin, cd.lor
of the Objcrt rr, declares In that paper
this lnnrnlM fhf If la l,nr,.,tl,lA fnr
,. . ' " , , . '
. ,,le '"'-lo-l rench forces In break through
n,. ,,., ,., .,i in u,.
, - ""
change their policy regarding south-
eastern IJtiropc, with a view to ellmlnat -
,-.,.,. ..,
" " v "
; fundamental question of the war now Is
I
..tben Itussla.
i-iisiuen ibussil.
.. navBl bIocka(lf ., comlnues Mr
1!.,rvi. .,-., ,.r ,. .,.,
many ul
,nftt"'
w
, of the most fertile tracts In tho
""rionnci developing tnelr man power
0. ; ..II II,,. I, Utnrv nf nations, never
. . - . r . ------- ---, .-- -
hefnte. liefore the finish of tho war Ihe
"" -.u'! m n.nr- inrni in-
"'-o i'"i-i in mr- ,-iiu ne.iiiy twenty nin
n.- nv.,,,.. ,,,-
""" " "' ooner iirms. uur enimaie :
..... . .-nii.n i..-.i,ie ,muKniT out
four million men in reserve.
"" sttipemlous folly of
t"" withdrawal from tialllpoll. Hussla
''an never act with tlio maximum power
""; lardaiieC!ennd lll ick Sea ate
I'Opened, enabling the Allies to munition
,,,r reserves fully. I nder present condl-
' ""'"la cannot lonio to the tnaxl-
"""" , '" r I'os.-ioie iignting sirengtn
Vl" "l,hl" ''lr, fr0"' P'rhaps
ran "ever come to It I he Allies made
VTlli ' ' '.'l " I it "'
VTZ' ' ,,uma.,11,a." '"'"enllot.
' nermann grasped that situation urn
,',..,. ni ...
" " ri-u- nras),
GREECE VIRTUALLY IN WAR.
Llitenle Considers snlonlen Trlnm
vlralr lie I'nelo lint rriilnetit.
Lospov. Nov. :;. Itetiter's Athens
' ... r. ' , ,
, "'"""'"' ';"" "a"
i rr
toi p. ilo. s slilp-i cariylng national forces
;'"' partialis of the provls.onal l.ovcrn-
""k e n.n.antine , ,ged a dcec
"a'"l"K former Minister Georglos Strelt
.,V.r" ."LJ'V! :.'Mal
...... ... ...... iintimiin..ii
earning with It the post of lriral ad
i vui i eriiui neiu mivs.
cnn-I.Uer l, Hie .'nien-n Minister Tl
to the Kmeign Minister.
riie
I ....... . .....
............
Politls. now l-'nri-iuii Minister nf tin.
(i '., , i
provisional homi nun in
WARNED AGAIN.
Inlt'iilc Tells (irrrrr Venlrrlns il-
ber. nls Must He! I'nlr Piny.
Pvilis, Nov. 2h. Hie I'ri ticli Minister
lo ilteece. s.i.vh a I lavas despatch from
Athens; to-iln.v, lias warned Ihe (Sleek
Government In behalf of Prance, ling.
land und ltussi.i. t li.it the countries
named cnmiot remain Indifferent to the.
prosecution of which adherents of the
Venlzelos cause nre the object, and that
thn nations In question menu to see that
the Venlzelos supporters enjoy al' tlio
rights1 conferred upon them by law
"Tlio winning," adds the despttch, "Is
believed to have been caused hy the im-
prlsonmcnt of M. LnmhrnM, chief editor
of the I'alrin, for publishing document
icgarding the turning over of l'oit impel
(one of the .Macedonian forts occupied
by tho Iiuigarlans)
WOMAN ENDS LIFE IN HOTEL.
Mrs
1
I'loreiicc Sllirl Phone (iond
ti. Thru Sbools llrrself.
III full view of a telephone operator
I , .. i.,.,i ..... H.,.,, i ..r . i... . .
v t , r i I'm l. ifireiw.rt i 111 '
vent her. Mis. Moicnco M. Slbel. an ii.
slstant bu. cr for a largo Six li avenue
ilrpaitmcnt store, shot herself In the
'"irr. : ." vr.i?"i "r.room
tin- piimiii ififi .irptirniny nitrr
iiospii.ii.
I.lltlo was known at the hotel nf her
husband, who did not live there, although
h.i had visited her lliete. Her mother,
who lives In Schenectady, had iilno vis -
Urd her, and a letter was found In tho
oom from tho mother, which told of Mrs.
Slhel's matrimonial liotibles
. ,
Prraldrnt Hrnialn Indoor.
WASlllNilTtiN, Nov. 2i'..- I'reslden Wit-
sou again remained Indoor all 'to-day
because of I ho cold from which l has
been suffering for marly a week. He
expevia lu u tan vu-iuurruw,
RUMANIAN ARMY
RETREATING TO
BDCHARESTL1NE
Falling Back From the AW
as Combined Teuton
Armies Press On,
BURNING VILLAGES
MARK AVITIIDRAWAB
Mackenscn Is Attacking
Alexandria, 1-7 Miles
From Capital. ;
OLD TIME CAVALRY
ACTION REPORTED
German Horsemen RontRu
manian Division Cover
ing Fleeing: Troops.
LON'DO.V. Vnt- C U.II... r.
m,.i. ... ', ,
I nn rctrrat- this tlmo to tlio outer
, defences of Uucliarcst Itself, is fore.
j shadowed by to-day's dovclopinciita In
4 critical situation m Wiui.icitia.
ew uiows struck in unison by Kulk.
, enliayn and Mackcnscn have bent the
long llutmitilun lino until it must kIvsj
way or withdraw,
' fM. i, , . ...
, "umauiaiis aro already lit re
; ,,,, f..OII. ,,, .,.. , ,. ...
' "
: where they hoped to offer battle. Th
road ftom tlio Alt Valley c"varj
. toward lluctiarc-t Is fi led . 7,
.JT . ! ' ' " ' " ' -, ,. ?. " ,"1' l-',r.l;
," m.- ihkiu, ornin reports.
, Ilurnlng Kiiiimnlan town:! marl: tha
"n retreat.
I Troonn of itm in i i
" - t'.i'ivi.T
i are only forty-sovcit mil. m southwest
' of HmvhareM, nttiirklii tlio towns ot
"ml lohlorl- tttv-tlvi
north ot tho Uan .!. ,i
, , ., ... , . 'Z
a JfM. Import in rullhe.,,1 100
i.uiuiwest ot um-narest, hat
fallen.
rinle. Ilrlfcl .Inili'll
The Juncion of the .u-nu ..f Vo:t
llkenh.'ivn mill Vm, M , . l . .. . i...
,,. jiinciou or the ,u-nu
1-alUenIi.iyn nnd Von M,u ken
liumanian iiinins rei t" d if i nlay
,,nd .oiilinueil olllclallv In p.e , to-
day. Is believed I., 1. the I n.ii.ng of
the end for Itumani.i. The litiiii.ihl.insj
win fight, ns ihey h.,ve fmul t. br.tvelv
nnd detper.uely to defend the, e niutry
nm capital. Iptit he i..,N me Vt
Herlin sums up to-night m on fen-
trmc the whole -itimtinn u, Walliichla.
TbeGeimaiioMll.il liuliet,,, kivf: "In
Wnllachl.i we ,ue y,;1,....s , ,..
cordancn with our plan-- The great
fScrmai. war machine I- mov ng forward
lnor f ,MI,0 ,. ,., , ,
fore lliimaiil.t Is crushed.
working together perfef lv. tin. iirmlen
of Von I'alkenhaMi and Von .Macl.enneit
have driven u deeply tlio Hanks lhf tho
lliim.iman Hue in the .it Valley until
now- that lino Is bent almo-t to riiht
angle On both sliles and nt tlio npex
Teitiou cuns and Tuumii inia.i ry am
hammering.
Ofriiiiin I n villi. In ftlon.
, on MacKen-.-n-.s troops which ciosseil
; ni" I'.imit.e Mauds nut to-da as i, re-
nun khimo .iciiii'm mem.
Tin- German Pleld Marshal lilm-elC
saw the Teuton tinny, probably of Turks
I V S
n swollen, vcllow ton- nt becauso
of 11 thaw, but the Teutons fotie'tt their
way iieioss in perieci foopetallon They
were aided by a fleet of motorl.o.i' . anil
Austrian lanubi moiiltoiv,
Teiilun Atlvniice Ititplillv,
ilnco acio'-s, tbelr ml,, n,,,, ' ,.
I lipid Alii. uly tllev biive mi k
the I'.iimaiii.ins to t,i, imi:U,is
m en
' iik
e.
amlrla, vv In, li is twi nly
stralg'il line mini the 'l.iii.iri Muting
,""",1', V"'! ''' "' "' "'"
would be likely to take. TIim ha- .teen
iknm in forlv .nlnht hiiiirs.
At Alexandria the troop- o nn
.M.ukeiiMOi, hi nles being ne'v 'oily.
j.eicn miles tio'ii lliii-li.uot, ,nr , iim'st
eaetl Hie same ilist.inee bev.ii.i ti,H
lower .Ml li Is believed ti,.,t th.s. ,
tho troops which hive Joined wi' Vori
Filkenhav n s .mnv. wln.li is believed ti
have attacked It.o.oi', twenty. live miles
1 nm Ihwest The Teuton- .m. alv .ni' mg
on a railroad line, b.v whnMi nippl e and
reeiiforceinenls may be n'ni up Irom
t'"1 Hulgarlan bank of tho Danube
''"he effect nf theso opeiatmns and
those of Von r.iilienliayn has l"c ,hat
"f the len ""Hch of the Alt V..II. thn
Ituilianl.in now hold only fifty
Hold on Alt Is W.ol.rr.
Tlie Itiiiiiauliili grasp o i t 1 if Ml .lley
Is limited to tho portion Chiiii liniunio
Vab ea to a point south of SHI n.i. King
Ferdinand's troops inn on tic r intern
hank, that tie nest ltiifli.it Mt To l a'-'x
Ituiiinn.aii st.itemeiit aiinouines tha, tint
' tlisi ' HUM., linvn .
tiisip). Ihrm liuvo been heaMly hum-
h riled bv Herman jittillerv
, Vo Palkenhi.yi. took Ib-nn'o Valce,4
1.,,1(.i ,, , tropH ,,r ..,,,,. ,
, ltn, .,ns in the foothills of ilin Tv., ,.
, k. u ,,lan Albs above Oirtr i de A nr...
utti .-.i.t ...r iiot,,,.,c au-.v, po,,,,
hiwiil titr T,ir n.icK tlio rlcht II ink nf (he
tier, an stratnslst is Ntrkiug at the lm.
pot taut railroad Junction of 1'ites.w
Itomnlc Vnlee.i, Curtea de Arges unit
i Kltnpobmg are a tow nf three Iliim.nil.in
1 towns running liom west to east nt a,
distance, of abiut tw-enl.v -ilvo tulle;i
south of Ih lurtliern border In th
Transylvania Alps. Tho last two named
arc railheads, v hence, run i.tilroaim tu
l'ltJ;i'i' ...
i T in Alt V.'illev Tt.t llri, i it I I..1.
..rosso the river nt several imlnm. Is
practically controlled from Itomnlc 'al.
cea and tilatina, further south, w;,icl
the Rumanian still hold, Falkenhayn.
attacked at Jtlmpolung to-day, evidently
