Oregon Historical Soefef
km
"Ashland Grows While Ulhla Flows'
' City of Sunshine and flowers
Ashland, Oregon, Ulhla Springs
"Oregon's famous Spa"
YOL. XLI
ASHLAND. OREGON MONDAY, NOVEMBER 27, 1916
NUMBER 54
J. IN 1 11 .tK
Voters Reject
Both Amendments
Both the park control amendment
eliminating the springs commission
and park board and the reassess
ment amendment lost out at the spec.
Jal elecOon held last Friday. Thei
.
vote on the first Btood 376 for and
663 against. On the second 498 for
and 521 against.
The reassessment amendment lost
out because of lack of understanding
of the meaning of the amendment and
what It would accomplish. It will
probably again be put before the peo
ple for their vote at another election,
aa city officials deem it a necessity
for the safeguard of the city's rights.
The park amendment was more
generally understood. Embracing, as
it did, a possible raise of taxes that
is, the council was given power to
make a raise up to 1 mills above
what is now authorized those who
voted against It in the main were
those who did not believe that the
Tesults obtained in the future would
justify the burden. Those who voted
for it, the real optimists ot the city,
believed that the results gained by
a systematic five years' development
of park and publicity work would
bring results which would justify the
burden at present. But few of the:
well-informed objected to the placing ,
of control of the parks and springs j
water proposition in the hands of a '
new board which they themselves ,
were to elect. A few did believe that
the city council could handle the prop.
osltion better than a new board, and
one plan advanced as a last minute
alternative was for the council to hire
a man to act as city manager and su-
pervlse the various' city departments,
Including the parks.
A number of causes contributed to
the feeling against the measure, one
.V. I L 1 .1 ..a ... ... , .
n.i;u i-uuuieu must uenis me m -
crease of two mills in county taxes
and the proposed Increase of six mills
as puDiisnea m tne tentative budget w"i"Kui commissioner.
of the city. ) "
The people made one fact very!.. HvirifTC At
plain, by refusing to vote, by prac-j UlCat JSUlllgd lit
tlcally the same majorities, both the
reassessment . amendment, against
which no sensible objection -poul dbe
consistently made, and the park con
trol amendment, against which there
was more pronounced opposition.
That fact is that Just at present the
people of .Ashland are not in a mood
to vote anything, no matter what Its
advantages,
The bearing of the election result'8
on the proposed sanitarium construe-1
tlon is of course of vital Interest. The
investors who promised immediate
construction of the sanitarium had
the amendment carried, of course are . Cnarlle Chaplin in .another Chaplin ner. The affair has caused a great
released from their obligation. It is scream, "The Fireman," and also a ; deal of trouble in the northern Call
hoped; however, that means may yet j 1),g flve-reel Paramount feature, "The'fornia town and as yet nothing defl
be found to secure the $50,000 in- j International Marriage." These two inlte regarding the cause of the death
vestment here, and those Ashlanders Pcture assure a well-balanced pic- or the fire, whether It was done by
who are working for the sanitarium (ture Program of the kind which al- j outsiders or by the transient himself,
are redoubling their efforts. I wftys Packs tne house, and the good , has been learned.
About six. hundred voters who , 8eats win a11 be eone early. j it is thought possible that Whit-
turned out for the presidential elec
tion failed to vote.
Political Pot
Begins
The political pot bubbles and boils,
but with much steam and little solid
results as yet. Another week, how-
avaf will ona itontilataa oato In nut '
tk. ,.. " ...
jiilu viio xjjcu. uiu iaicoi miiiuio ato
to the effect that S. B, Stoner may
become a candidate to run against R.
P. Cornelius from the first ward. J.
N. Dennis is being urged to run
against A. L. Lamb in the third ward,
according to report, and may accept
if the eventualities of the next week
suit him. W. W. Caldwell has also
been spoken of as a possible candi
date to succeed P. L. Ashcraft in the
second ward, and may run under
somewhat the same conditions as Mr.
Dennis. John Dill is also eonstdered
as a candidate from the second. '
The aspects of the coming race for I
mayor are, also becoming rosy for
those who crave excitement. No one
has openly announced their candidacy
as yet,, but when the announcements
do start there will probably be some
surprises.
In years gone by thevrace. has
grown hitter around. Ae recorder's
position, hut this year with seven can
didates to choose from, all' more or
less acceptable to everybody, while
the race will be thrilllngly close, therel
will be an absence of the bitterness
of former campaigns.
The national forests contain the
most extensive public playgrounds in j from Sacramento, having only short
the world, and are open to the free ly before arrived there from G er
ase of the people. , many. ,
WEATHER FORECAST S
For tlie Week IkKlnning Sunday,
$ Xovember 20. . 3
I Washington, D. C, Nov. 2-iL S
Pacific States: Rains will be 3
frequent in the north Pacific 4
Btates and northern California;
2 onnlliAKII PalUnnnln nntininM S
southern California generally 3
iair curing tne ween. Tempera-
J tures will average near seasonal ?.
3 normal. J
4 Rocky Mountain and Plateau 3
- FirBt half oI week "n"
pettled,' wlh probab,y 8now8 ,n
v ouu uunueiu iiuriioiiB ui
S these districts; latter half of
ir ween iair; mucn comer aoout
3 Wednesday and cold thereafter ?
S until near end of the week,.
I E. H. BOWIE, Forecaster. 5
Steel Campaigns
For Crater Lake Fund
Will (3. Steel. United States com-
missioner of Crater Lake park, has
announced a campaign to raise
$700,000 to establish a highway to
Crater Lake, 70 miles long and with
no greater than a 3 per cent grade
on any part. '
If the money is secured it will be
used in grading and later a second
campaign for the paving of the' high-
j way may follow. The total cost
would be $1,500,000. According to
Mr. Steel, if Oregon and Jackson
county can provide $350,000, tfie gov - -
ernment will duplicate the sum.
The planned highway is to be a
spur on the Pacific Highway and
give motorists an inlet to the great
j scenic wonder of the state,
I Coincident with the announcement
' A f tt0 nlsntloil Klnrhnroir nmn t1,A I
, (
, news of the resignation of Mr. Steel i
j as supervisor of the park and his!
Vining Theatre
There will be all kinds of great do
ings at the Vining Theatre this week.
Tonight.
Tonight "Pennington's Choice," the
great picture featuring Francis Bush
man and Beverly Bayne, which made
Pronounced hit last night, will be
repeated.
Ask some one who was
there.
' Tuesday.
Tuesday night comes the inimitable
Minstrels.
On Wednesday and
Thursday j
nights, together with the regular fea
ture picture, the Nashville Students
and Jubilee Singers will put on a mln-
. n f ' 8tre' show which is said to be one of ' which went south from here Saturday
tO IGUjtne best Ctt the road at the present was met by an armed posse at Horn
.day. It is the oldest colored organiza- brook and escorted down the track
tlon traveling and has been a favorite 1
! for many years. The students' tango !
j band will give a concert in front of j
the theatre prior to each show. The
Pcture on Wednesday will be Virginia
Pearson in "Blazing Love." on Thurs
day Frank Keenan and Charles Ray in
"Honor Thy Name."
Sportsmen Urge
Closed River
'finnrtKmon nt tho vallov mat nf tUa
Uf..j ,. ii,,. t., , , ,4
I Bedford public library Friday night
ln.t aa -
and adopted resolutions calling for a
closed rjver, to promote the best fish
ing. Tho matter will be threshed out
at the coming session of the legisla-
ture. Representatives-elect Thomas
and Sheldon gave talks, as did Chris
Gottlieb, E. L. Ewing, W. F. Isaacs
and other fishermen. There was a
discussion in general of the subjact.
Roseburg Review: Fifty years ago
tomorrow Simon Caro, the local mer
chant, stepped from th overland
stage at Jacksonville and for the first
time set foot on Oreeon soil. The
event, which occurred &i 6:30 o'clock
in the evening, was vividly recalled
by Mr. Caro today on tho eve of the
anniversary. At the time he had trav-
eled for several days on the stage
Plan for State
Poultry Show
" " i
At a meeting of the directors ot
; the Southern Oregon Poultry Assocla-
!tlon neld Thurgday night at Medford
1 preparations were begun for the Ore-
gon 8tate ltry Bhow t0 be held ln
Medford the second week ln January.
The ahow it ,g expected, will attract
300 or more poultry fanciers from the
Willamette valley. Over 1,000 blue-
. blooded birds wlil be on exhibition.
j Among the notables who will attend
Governor Withyconibc and repre-
; sentatives of the Oregon Agricultural
j college and the state experiment sta
"P'tion.
The annual business meeting and
election of officers of the state asso
ciation will be held during the week
of the show.
Members of the valley association
are making preparations for taking
care of the visitors who are expected
to attend.
J. R. Woodford, former Medford
postmaster, was elected to the board
of directors last night to succeed V.
L- Fritchie, who has moved with his
"mily to Seattle.
Taxpayers' League
Will Meet Saturday
The first annual meeting of the
Jackson County Taxnavpra' I.paeiiA
j wnl be held Saturday, December 2, at
2 o'clock p. m., in the assembly room
of the Medford puM,c Ilbrary bulId.
! ine
At this meeting a new board of
forty directors will be chosen for the
ensuing vear, officers elected, and
various committees appointed.
The budget committee of the league
has been at work and will submit for
consideration its report on the county
budget.
Annual reports and. other impor-
tant matters will come before the
meeting.
The success of tho league depends
on the interest and attention given by
each individual member, particularly
during the infancy of the organiza
tion. Drunken Man Burned
In Hornbrook Jail
Thrown Into the Hornbrook lull In
... i .
an uiivunaciuuD oiaie ui iiilUAlliUluu
j last Thursday night, James Whltcomb
was burned to death when the jail
was burned in some mysterious man-
i comb, who arrived from the north
Thursday, was a member of the I. W.
W., and scores of he wanderers are
"hanging around in the neighborhood
of Hornbrook. The big delegation
by men armed with shotguns and
rifles. Serious trouble Is feared and
the sheriff of Siskiyou county is at
Hornbrook with an eye oi en for trou-
ble.
According to the story told by Dep
uty Sheriff Richardson, who arrested
Whltcomb, the man was drunk and
was relieved of matches before being
put ln the jail. One theory Is that
he set fire to the jail from the inside.
Another Is that an enemy of his fired
it, and a third that outside parties set
it on fire either not knowing or car
ing that he was inside. The latter
:theory is given some credence because
. ., . , . . ,
iln the n,sht before, when two hoboes
were held for shooting at a brakeman
at Siskiyou, on the Oregon side, an
attempt was made to release them.
The attempt was made by friends on
the outside. It Is held by some that
these same "friends," not knowing
that another prisoner was ln the lock
up, set fire to it out of revenge on the
town.
The two prisoners were taken to
Medford for preliminary examination.
During the forest fire season, For
est Service lookout men stationed on
high peaks look over practically all
the national forest land in the state
of Oregon. - .
The timber and grazing resources
in the national forests of Oregon,
Washington and Alaska have an esti
mated value of $233,000,000.
Hoboes Use Gun On
Brakeman Carroll
Charged with assault with a dan
gerous weapon, two knights of the
road, Lewis Levine and George Botts,
were lodged In the jail at Jacksonville
Thursday night by Fred Richardson,
deputy sheriff, of Ilornbrook.
Sunday night Carroll, a brakeman
on a southbound freight, discovered
the two men when the train was a
few miles south of Steinman, on the
Slskiyous. He ordered, them off and
the men drew guns. When he kept
advancing one of them fired, the bul
let striking Carroll's clothing near his
waist, searlug the flesh of the abdo
men. The men dropped off the train and
Carroll, reaching Hornbrook, filed a
complaint. The deputy sheriff took
a car and met the men at Hilt, where
they were arrested.
At Ilornbrook Levine made an at
tempt to eseape, breaking from his
captor. However, he fell In a diOch
and was caught again.
Levine is about 35 years of age and
Botts 2S.
I. W.W Give Little
Trouble in City
Although over a hundred members
of the 1. W. W. have spent from three
to fourteen, hours in Ashland during
the past two days, no trouble has re
sulted. The transients are bound
from Seattle to California and arrived
in bunches of from six to fifty-eight.
The local police met them at all trains
and saw to it that they remained in
the "Hobo Hotel" on Fourth street
until the first freight out of the city.
The largest crowd arrived Saturday
evening and mar.ched from the train
to the room, where they stayed for
the night. They Invited all the com
mon hobos to get out and held a busi
ness meeting. Special police were put
on Saturday night. Owing to the fact
that this is a division point the hobo
problem is a big one and requires the
attention of two patrolmen at night.
Have One Chance in
Two of Winning
Gloom Is hanging over the local
football camp for some reason unbe
known. The team has been nnable to
get the usual snap Into practices, and
hopes of taking the Thanksgiving con
test at Medford are flickering. Those
around town who are in the habit of
backing their judgment with money
are demanding two to one odds from
the Medford backers, and Ashland is
accorded about one chance in two of
taking the game from the Medford
ites on thSir own home ground.
Medford is making big preparations
for entertaining the greatest crowd
that has ever turned out for a foot
ball game ln southern Oregon. The
game will be played at the ball park,
where covered grandstand and bleach
ers promise the spectators comfort, no
matter what the weather. One or two
bands will be out and the entire stu
dent bodies of both schools will at
tend. Autolsts will reach the ball
park in Medford by turning off the
main street north at the corner two
blocks toward the railroad from the
Medford hotel.
The Ashland rooters will go down
determined to give the team the limit
of their lung capacity, and the team
is going down with the Intention of
beating Medford.
Will Organize a
Beginners' Band
Carl Loveland is going to organize
another boys' band, to be composed
entirely of beginners. All the lads
who began last fall have made won
derful headway and the Ashland boys'
band by next summer will be a cork
ing good band. The beginners' band
will be organized right after Christ
mas and the favorite demand for a
Christmas present, and one which will
be answered ln a score of homes, Is
for a musical instrument.
Mr. Loveland is also contemplating
the organization of a girls' band, the
idea meeting with a rapturous re
sponse among the fairer sex, and per
haps by next summer Ashland may
have four bands. Parents wishing to
buy an instrument should talk the
matter over with Mr. Loveland.
Phone news items to the Tidings.
MUX CLOSE THANKSGIVING
S DAY.
$ The business houses of Ash-
3 land will close all day next
3 Thursday, Thanksgiving day.
S Housewives are urged to keep
this fact in mind and to do their ?
$ Thanksgiving shopping early In 4
? order to vget good service and $
avoid the Inst minute rush. ?
S BUSINESS MEN'S ASS'N.
$
Open Studio
In Bank Building
Mrs. H. T. Elmore and Mrs. A. L.
Strickland have opened a music stu
dio ln the First National Bank build
ing, where they have two rooms at
tractively fitted up for teaching pur
poses. Mrs. Elmore will teach voice
and Mrs. Strickland piano. The study
of musical history and harmony will
also be a part of the course offered.
Both ladies are well fitted for the
work and are somewhat known to
the Ashland public. Mrs. Elmore
studied in Portland, Maine, lu Boa
ton, and spent a year in Florence,
Italy, with the famous master, Van
nuccinl. She has had a number of
years experience, both as teacher and
concert linger, and will have a larger
range of material to draw from in
her teaching, than has heretofore
been offered to Ashland students of
voice culture. Mrs. Strickland is a
graduate of the musioal department
of the University of Wyoming and
has taught piano for a number of
years her successful student reclt- b ucttl -rougm into ure
als of a few years ago receiving much :gn lD that Way wUhout raoIesta-
commendation in Ashland. Their
many friends wish them success ln
their ne.v undertaking.
Stovell Gives
Ashland Big Boost
The Fatnrday, November, 18th,
Issue of The Classmate, the Method
its Sunday school paper printed in
Cincinnati, and which has a national
circulation of Immense size, prints
an illustrated article, "Circling the
State of Oregon," by. Dennis H. Sto
vell. Mr. Stovell camped In the Ash
land auto camp for several weeks
last summer while on his trin around
the state, and shland has a very j Accordl"s t0 him- tno amendment if
prominent place In the article. Mr. paH8e(l wol,l1 have Blvp" tno council
Stovell tells of Ashland as follows: jpower t0 reassess a piece of property
"Ashland is the gate city to Ore-!Bllould 3 purely technical error be.
gon for all those who come over the ! fou,ul- "A it is now, the city can
Pacific Highway from the south. It not ',0 thi"'" Mr- Nlnlnger, "and
Is one of the very prettiest cities In j tl,e clty wil1 Probably get It In the
all Oregon. It Is a sort of American I neck from tt ""mber 0f property. owa
Carlsbad. It has numerous mineral !ers "n1 tne S0Brc" 'r a flaw in as
sprlngs and beautiful mountain Been- j 8etiS"ents is started In earnest." It
ery. All this has been capitalized by may eml with tno cIty Bevera' thou-
the city. The free auto camp is lo-
cated in Lithla park, close by Ash
land creek. We had a good time
driving over the scenic roads In and
around Ashland and going up the
Siskiyou Highway to the state line.
The Siskiyou Highway Is really one
of the great mountain motor roads of
the west. It Is an Important link in
Hie Pacific Highway that will ulti
mately be a hard-sufraccd boulevard
from British Columbia to Mexico
through the Btates of Washington,
Oregon and California. It leads up
gently and easily, by graceful curves,
to the crest of the Siskiyous, reach
ing an altitude of almost five thou
sand feet, From the summit we had
a magnificent view of the purple
ranges and of the snow-glittering
peaks Mount Ashland, Pilot Rock
and old Shasta."
Expert Diagnoses
Medford Muddle
Medford is again attacking her
financial muddle, but this time
through a different agent than the
dozens of "plans" offered by various
Medford citizens. The Medford coun
cil has hired Col. Howard A. Hansen
of Seattle, a municipal and financial
expert, to diagnose their troubles and
suggest a satisfactory cure. A mass
meeting will be held ln the neighbor,
ing city tonight and the Hansen plan
explained. Tho Medynski plan has
bobbed up again also, and a house to
house canvass is being made by work
ers on its behalf. Many held it to be
a satisfactory solution and it will be
voted upon at tho Medford city "elec
tion which is to be held January 9.
Fresh oysters at Rose Bros. It
Hornbrook Liquor
Firms Will Fight
The Astor Wine Company, one ot
the wholesale liquor houses at Horn
brook, doing a great proportion ot
the mall order business Into Oregon,
plans a fight on the "bone dry" law,
according to members of one of the
firms. They claim that the Oregon
law will not hold good in court, and
say that the mall order Interests of
California intend to fight it to the
limit, as its enforcement would mean
the virtual death of a business which
represents large investments. There
are two llyuor firms In Hornbrook,
the Astor Wine Company and Meyers,
Incorporated, employing about thirty
men. The two firms are thought to
be doing a business of al least $15,
000 a month.
Ilornbrook will continue to exist '
even If the liquor houses are closed,
as It is a helper station of the South
ern Pacific, being located at the
southern base of the Siskiyou moun
tains. It is also the supply center
for a big mining and farming coun
try. At Hilt, six miles nearer the Ore
gon line, one establishment, conduct
ed by V. E. Warren, does a mail busi
ness In Oregon estimated at $3,500 a
month. Mr, Warren says he expects
his business to be ended by the law
and has made no announcement as to
his plans. His establishment is in a
lumber town.
An uniount of liquor which Is hard
to estimate has own brought Into
Oregon by automobile without the
formality of affidavits, up until tho
last few days, when the first snow
fell in the Siskiyou mountains. A
.n ot-vrmi occasions auio irucKs ana
hriivy cars loaded with liquor have
been reported bb passing through
Ashland, but local officers hold that
no authority Is given 'hem to arrest
the drivers as long as the Ashland
city laws are observed. The winter
weather will soon put an end to the
automobile traffic.
Merry Search for
. Errors to Begin
The adverse vote which greeted tho
reassessment amendment to the char
ter at Friday's election Is likely to .
cost the city of Ashland dearly, ac-
cor'lln8 to Councilman Poke Nlnlnger.
"""" uulK,rH om an" lne taxpayers
who can not find a technical loophole
to get out of paying theirs, holding
the sack."
The immediate cause for tho coun
cil's offering tho amendment for the
people to pnss came from the fact
that Barney Nichols, an Ashland
property owner, found that the city
had made the very grave mistake,
while levying his curb and gutter as
sessment, of passing the resolution re
carding the curb before posting their
intention to do so. A very grave er
ror, Indeed. So grave that It does not
make a whooping bit of difference ex
cept in a court whero an undotted 1 or
an uncrossed t may render an assess
ment illegal. But Mr. Nichols wanted
to teach the city a lesson and at the
sumo time mcke a little saving, and
contested tho assessment successfully.
He saddled a debt of only a little over
a hundred dollars onto the city. The
point is, if Barney could do it, how
many moie can? A number have an
nounced their Intention of trying ac-.
cording to city officials. The consen
sus of opinion seems to be that the
reassessment amendment should be
again put on the ballot at tho general
election.
J. S. Langhorne, the- phenomenal
sales manager who has been creat
ing such a sensation with his attrac
tive sales methods at Beebe & Kin
ney's store, tells us that the stare
will be closed by Christmas and what
remains of the stock sold lu a lump '
to the highest bidder. Between now
and the closing hour a sensational
drive will be made to slash, cut and
trim prices until the buys offered
will be irresistible. Mr. Langhonw
expects and no doubt will dispose ot
most of the stock over the counters,
so that the people of this community
may have advantage of it.
