D
HOME EDITION
TODAY'S PRICES
.J'-ao bank notes, state bills, 10 &
a. ar p a r.$v Mexican coid 49c
acionje? 1 c bar tUver H & IL
quotation 74 m -r 3X 604 34 Oft
Talma -o-wer livestock steady, stoclts
WEATHER FORECASTS.
El Taso nd wet Texas, unsettled,
colder. New Mexico. Talr; colder. Ari
zona, fair; colder.
SIXTEEN PAGES TODAY.
LATEST NEWS BY ASSOCIATED PRESS.
EL PASO. TEXAS. MONDAY EVENING, NOVEMI
SINGLE COPT FIVE CENTS.
Big Stock Yards Bar Cattle Shipments!
EIemPASO c
i
i
IS CAUSE
Fear Epidemic Of Fool and
Mouth Disease; Can Ship
For Quic Slaughter.
KANSAS, NEBRASKA
CA TTLE SUSPECTED
Many Stock Yards Have;
Issued Quarantine Orders
To Check Disease. j
SPRINGFIELD, III.. Nov. 27. Orders !
closing the national stock yards at '
E. st Louis and the union stock- J
yards at Chicago agalst the shipment i
of any cattle, sheep or swine, except '
lor Immediate slaughter, were issued .
by state veterinarian Dyson today, fol-
lowing receipt of news of a suspected ,
outbreak of the foot and mouth j
disease in Nebraska, Kansas and Mis
I
souri
Embargo Declared at Denver.
Denver, Colo., Nov. 25. An embargo
against shipment of cattle, sheep or
swine into Colorado has been placed
souri, "until the' nature of the disease ' f eial of the state of Michigan, of
among cattle reported there" had been , 4 Lansing, Mich, who s on a visit
determined. Charles G. lambe, state j ta iUcnlEAT1 troops on the border,
vetei inarlan, announced today. I " r
Another Disease In Colorado. ' was "" pvat" "
1h foot and month disease does J schoI- 18 to la New ,yrk atate-
not exist la, Colorado. Mr. Lambe de- j He enlisted in the national guard at
lared, buv he said, there Is prevalent Fort Michigan Jn 18SD as a private.
a disease known as stomatitis, notre- and grved as corporal, sergeant, fittt
lated. tp-the loot and jaoutn diseaeiai-, -- r ' . - -
Stomatitis, while infectious, la' notpergeantT regimental- sergeant jnajor,
so dangerous as the foot and mouth , till 1591. He was a first lieutenant In
o'sease, Mr. Lambe said. It is most ' the Spanish -war with the 31st Michi-
prevaient with cattle, ana attacKs ice .
inucous membranes of the mouth.
Quarantine at Kansas City.
Kansas City, Mo.. Nov. 27. Livestock
officials of the federal government,
Kansas and Missouri, said Sunday they
were not positive that cattle under sur
veillance in the local stockyards were
veiliance in me luciu aiucujurus w
afflicted with foot and mouth disease. ;
out no chances are oemg taKen ot a i
possible spread of an epidemic The I
temporary quarantine imposed Satur
day night continued in effect.
i
The temporary quarantine probably
wiU remain in effect until 'Wednesdays
At that time the effect or the
on tUc inocolated pigs and calves will
deU rcnme positively whether the cases
are foot and mouth disease
Cattle Held at Clinton.
Cllcion. la.. Nov. 27. Complying
with a. quarantine embargo, declared
liv fh ninn ctncVvarHs In l7hlrn
against cattle from Missouri and Kan- ! London, Eng.. Nov. 27. The foreign
aas where foot and mouth disease has office has sent the American ambas
been discovered, nine cars of cattle , Slidar a note deflniteiv refusing to
or .-'nating in Nebraska are being held ! ", . . .
here t grant a safe conduct to count Adam
One Carload Cause Trouble, j Tafnowski von Tamow, the new Aus-
Omaha, Neb., Nov. 27. The action of J tro-Hungarian ambassador to the Cnit
thc Illinois autliorities in quarantining I j sta'es.
against livestock from Nebraska, Kan- j " ...
sas and Missouri, is understood to be T"6 British foreign office granted
precautionary and due to the arrival at ;
te Kansas City stockyards of a car-
lnad of cattle from Chase county, Ne
braska, which are suspected of having
foot . -d mouth disease
Oklahoma Una Quarantine.
oc Uhn.d City, Okla.. Nov. 27. Fol-
1 wing r-ceipt of reports that the hoot
ard irouth disease had broken out
ar.w In the Kansas City stock yards.
I ink iault. president of the state
board of .igriculture today established i
1 arantine against the Importation of
Iieto k into Oklahoma, from Mis
souri. Kantas. Iowa and Nebraska.
Cincinnati Declare Embargo.
Ciii'innati. o.. Nov. 27 An embargo
wa.s d.- tared here todav airainst all
cattle sheep and hogs from Chicago!
and tast :-t iouis yarns ana points
vest of the Mississippi river. State
veterinarians announced the embargo
w r.uld not be lifted until definite word
had be.n received relative to reports
of foot and mouth disease in Nebraska,
Kansas and Missouri.
Auto Carried On Pilot
Of
Locomotive, Slides
Off and Is Undamaged
Fan Jose. CaL. Nov. 27. Jos'eDh Alal-
drmng an automobile, was caught
nn sl railroad crossing- bv a train hprti '
'"Un,h.ndA,nra0 TmnS? ' -1 Ie" because of the drudgery m a
.MimTjtafAS hS Vhf i farmhouse and because of misunder
SSSU'U 'thTrnotor6 ca? ?Xe SL '" W" "0
eni-U . " w.ii?vi wuuc no t
wn power.
Gov. Ferguson Opposed
Tc
o Reducing Food Prices
u-tin Texa.s. Nov. 27. Gov. James
Fcrgusuii is not in sjmpatht with !
c mc. -ment to reduce the price of i a witness. He had completed his direct
o.jdstuffo. his attitude being made J testimony and was cross examined.
known At the farmers' and merchants' He had advocated federal incorpora
hanqutt. The governor said that if J lion of railways as a means of doing
food prices were reduced, it would be ( awav with what he described as detri
at the e-ipense of the farmer, and he is mental state regulation
not willing that the farmer should lose
any ot his prosperity, pointing out that
the middlemen would take caie of their
own inter, sts
"The farmer is just coming into his
own said the governor. few eais
i ex. when the farmer wa getting siv
cents for his cotton you didn't bear ot
anv met tings being held in the city to
"ost the price of cotton"
If Washington Had Backed Pershing At Parral, Villa Would Be In Limbo Today
I Adjutant General
Slate Of Michigan
Iladrrrr's Studio. Ill's S. El Iao.
.OL JOHN & BIP.SEY. adju' nt gea-
pan volunteers. He was a captain
from 1S99 to 1S05. He was in the Ft.
Wayne, garrison school for officers
four years. He was. major until 1914
with the 31st Michigan infantry, and
lieutenant colonel until June, 1915. in
the same regiment. Michigan is the
only state in the union in which the
adtutant sreneral it not a. hniridier
funeral seneral ls not a "'Sadler
BUM REFUSES
ElifPIISSPIT
safe passports to the Austro-IIunga-
rian ambassador. Dr. Constantin Dum
ba, when he was recalled from the
United Slates. Some adverse criticism
was roused in England by reason of
this fact.
The reason for the refusal may be
paraphrased as follows:
"Even If international law forbade
the refusal of such a safe conduct, tho
actions or Austrian and uerman m
bassies and consulates abroad have
been so much in excess of regular dip-
lomattc zunctions that tne lEritish gov
ernment feels justified in withholding
its consent for such diplomats to
travel to their posts."
Girl Gives Up Hope Of
Getting $10,000 Rather
Than Remain On Farm
Chicago, 111, Nov. 27. After a year's
experience in life on a farm, Mary
Smith today gave up $10,000 to return
to Chicago. Miss Smith was selected
last year from among a largo number
of candidates to become housekeeper
and daughter of "Uncle Jimmy" and
"Aunt Louisa" Pankhurst. a lonely old
couple living on a farm at Amboy. 111.
She was to receive 110.000 on their
he was to
", ..
death.
CROSS EXAMINATION OF
RAILWAY EXPERT BEGINS
Washington, D. C Nov. 27. The
joint congressional committee investi
gating transportation problems, re
sumed its sessions today with Alfred
if. mom. counsel lor tne railway ex-
itirw'
aavisory committee, again
I. W. W.'n AltE AltnCbTKU:
THEN KE.IBLV WIIUCK. JAIL
Los Angeles, Cal.. Nov. 27. Twentv
two Industrial Workers of the World,
removed from a Southern Pacific train
and placed m jail at New-hall, 27 miles
from here, nearly wrecked the city jail
Sunday. The men were brought here
and placed in the county jalL
SuE?3ffiStJ Jananaa. SS
EL PASfl US S
IIETJEIIER
Merchants To Cooperate
With Adv. Clubs in Third
Annual Investigation.
El Paso has been again selected by
the Associated Advertising Clubs of
the 'World as one of the leading mar
keting centers of the United States and
Canada, In which they will make their
third annual investigation of business
condition
II. K. Conn, of the El Paso Adclub,
has just received word of his appoint
ment on the national research com
mittee This is the third continent-wide In
vestigation which has been made by
the Associated Advertising clubs. Two
years ago, when the European war un
settled trade conditions, the advertis
ing clubs were appealed to to report
the actual change in purchases for an
index month of 1914 over the same
month of the year previous. The high
commendation of this investigation by
presiuent "Wilson, premier Borden, of
Canada, and the many thousands of
financiers, merchants and business
men all over the country who read it.
!ead to a second investigation in the
month of November. The second in
vestigation showed an average in
crease in American consumption of
15.SS percent. On these figures the re
port Indicated that the United States
was entering on a period of unprece
dented prosperity, and that 1916 would
be the greatest year American business
had ever seen.
In the face of the fulfilment of this
prophecy another investigation is to be
made. As in the two previous years,
the investigation for 1916 will cover
the six principal retail lines, namely:
Department stores, grocery stores,
hardware stores, clothing stores, jew
elry stores and drug stores. The five
questions which will be asked of each
dealer in noway -3isclese business se
crets. Nonames are. asked. MT an
swers are in percentages and ah av
erage for the city is all that Is report
ed. The five questions are:
L "Sales. "What is the percent of
increase or decrease in your total vol
ume of sales for November, 1918, as
compared with November. 1915T
2 The same question relating to
advertising expenditure.
3. The same question relating to
volume of stock on hand.
4. The same question relating to net
profit
5 What percent of all money in ac
counts on your oooks October 31,
1916. was collected during November?
Tne investigation is not conducted
for profit None of the members of
the committee receive any money for
their services.
When interviewed zy a Herald re
porter today. Mr. Conn said:
'The purpose of these investigations
is fo take the 'guess' out of business
and give definite facts upon which to
base sales and advertising efforts for
the coming year. The investigation
last year revealed the trend of "business
in this country as a whole and also
gave figures showing sectional pros
perity or depression. Merchants and
manufacturers used the report and
found accurately in what locality it
was advisable to expand or retrench.
"A part of the great value of this
work rests in the speed with which
the information is collected and the
figures tabulated. We will start to
collect this information Monday morn
ing, December 4. We hope every re
tailer in El Paso will hate his five an
swers ready when we calL The re
ports will be mailed from here before
midnight of December 7 and Mac Mar
tin, of the Mac Martin Advertisintr
agency, of Minneapolis, chairman of
the committee, has promised to have
the complete tabulations and deduc
tions for the entire continent finished
within ISO hours Last ear over 1000
investigators gave their time to this
work This tear I am Informed over
SOI'O have already volunteered to assist
in collecting the information from the
dealers."
FORMER POPULIST NOMINEE
FOR PRESIDENT IS ON TRIAL
Augusta. Ga.. Nov. 27. Thomas E.
Watson, one time candidate for the
presidency on the Populist ticket, was
called to trial In federal district court
here today on a charge of having sent
nttseene matter throuch the mails. It is
I the third time Watson, a publisher and
' nnthnr of historical works, has faced
trial on the same charges. The first
indictment was quashed nearly two
years ago on technicalities. He was re
indicted and last December after a
lengthy trial, the jurv disagreed.
The publisher, whose home is at
Thomson. Ga, near here, is under an
indictment containing four counts based
or articles published in his magazines,
which the indictment states violate the
federal penal code. At his previous
trial, which began a year ago tomorrow.
"Watson claimed immunity for the mat
ter objected to on the ground that it
consisted of excerpts from works on
Roman Catholic theology which had
gone through the mails without ques
tion. The matter was used by him in
attacks on the Roman Catholic church
and its officials.
EGG KING TO BE FORCED
TO MARKET HIS SUPPLIES
Chicago, Hi.. Not. 27. James A.
Wetz, a wholesales who has been
found to have 7J.000.900 eggs in cold
storage and told government investi
gators: "I'te got them: what are you
going to do about it?" is about to be
informed. Health commissioner John
L. Robertson lias unearthed a forgot
ten city ordinance, regulating the
lencth of time produce may be held in
storage, and lias announced that a part
of Wetz's eggs will have to he m irket-
, ed by January 21. He said he advised
(Vijse wives rut to buy eggs until that
late.
NED TO D
iTEIEIS STEER
IIP? COKE
lull.
0.
Six Arrive, Having Kept
Lights Shrouded; Boats
Ready To Launch.
NO SUBMARINES
SEEN EN ROUTE
Danish Ship, Frederik VIII,
Reports Mails Removed
In British Ports.
NEW YORK, Nov. 27. Six steam
ships arriving here today from
European and West Indies ports
reported they caught wireless warnings
Sunday to keep watch for belligerent
submarines, but all braught word that
no craft of that type had been ob
served. The incoming vessels took such pre
cautions as shrouding the lights dur
ing darkness and having the lifeboats
swung out. The arrival today includ
ed the American liner Lapland from
Liverpool, the Italian ships Duca
d'A'jsta and Napoll. from Mediterranean
ports, the Danish vessel Frederick VIII
from Scandinavian ports, the Brazos
from Porto Rico, and the Bermudian
from Bermuda. '
The Frederick VXII put in at Kirk
wail. Scotland, where the British au
thorities removed the mails. She
brought' here Roald Amundsen, ex
plorer of South Polar regions, who said
he came on a private mission; Lieut.
Asger Eranjean. of tho Danish army,
who plans to purchase American air
planes, and Manual Calderon, Cuban
minister to Norway.
SRiS DEFEAT
ITflLlflNFORCES
Losses in Tripoli and Tunis
Are Said To Be About
20,000 Men.
Berlin. Germany, Nov. 27. (By Wire
less to Savilie.) Arabs under chief
Halif Ben Asker have defeated a force
of Italians near Denhibat on the fron
tier of Tripoli and Tunis, according to
a dispatch from Constantinople to the
Overseas News agency.
The Arabs then penetrated Tunis and
engaged the French forces; the message
adds, the battle still being In progress.
The losses of the Italians are estimat
ed at 20.000 men, says the message,
without including prisoners taken by
the Arabs in the interior of the country.
The "'onstantlnople advices say the
Turkish administration in Tripoli now
has been reestablished completely as it
was prior to the Turkish-Italian war.
The Italians, it is declared by the dis
patch to the Overseas News agency,
dare not abandon the five cities which
the still occupy on the Tripoli-Italian
coast.
ATTACKS IN SERVIA BY
ENEMY FAIL, SAYS BERLIN
Berlin. Germany. Nov. 27 (by wire
less to Sayville ) Strong attacks were
directed by troops of the entente
against German positions on the
heights to the east of Parlovo. in
southern Serv ia. says today's German
official statement.
These attacks broke down under
the tenacious resistance of the German
rifle battalions. West of the Vardar
river. British troops directed a strong
fire against the Teuton positions and
then launched an attack which was
repulsed.
BULGAR F0RCESCR0SS
DANUBE IN TWO PLACES
Sofia. Bulgaria. Nov. 26. (Via Lon
don. Eng., Nov. 27.) The Bulgar-Ger-man
forces under field marshal von
Mackensen have crossed the Danube at
two points east of the Alt valley,
according to an official statement
issued by the war office today.
The first crossing was made by the
Bulgarians near Sivistova. about SO
miles east of the foot of the Alt val
ley. The second crossing was made by
the Germans near Somovit at the mouth
of the Ait.
. l'TIUI.Il DE.NY UMiLAND
1 Ih FAVORIAC OWN TROOPS
i With the British Armies in France.
Nov. 27 Australian officers on this
front deny the wireless assertion from
i Berlin that England is favoring her
I own troops at the expense of the Aus-
(tralians and other colonials. The Aus
tralians have been fighting hard, but
have been treated on an equality with
j other bard fighting divisions.
CAPITAL OF HVMANI V IS
HMiAI.V IIOMimi) II V AIIOIKN'
Bucharest, Rumania. Nov. 27. From
10 oclock Sunday morning to 3 oclock
in the afternoon squadrons of enemy
airplanes flew over Bucharest, drop
ping bombs Several persons were
killed. Some of our airplanes engaged
the hostile craft."
ODGE U-BOATS
DAMAGED Si
S FDD DEEP
Niels Neilsen Loses Propel
ler in Pacific and Is Now
Storm Battered.
San Francisco, Calif. Nov. 27. The
Norwegian steamer Niels Neilsen is in
distress 250 miles west of Seattle,
according to advices received today by
the United States naval radio station
here. "Wireless advices were that the
vessel had lost her propeller and was
attempting to return to an American
port. The United States steamship
South Dakota and other vessels In the
Pacific are proceeding to the location
given by the Neilsen.
Cargo Very Valuable.
Seattle, Wash., Nov. 27. The Nor
wegian steel steaiher Niels Neilsen. SS00
tons, owned by B. Stolt Neilsen. of Nor
way, was under charter j,o Mitsui and
company and was carrying a general
cargo, including war supplies to Vladi
vostock. Her crew was entirely Nor
wegian. The vessel Is valued at 31.000.
000 and the cargo Is even more valu
able. Ship Faccn Heavy Gale
North Head, "Wash., Nov. 27. Wire
less messages received here said the
1 Neilsen was facing a heavy southwest
erly gale and was oaaiy in need or
assistance. The coast guard cutter
Snohomish is among the vessels that
have gone from Puget Sound to her
assistance.
SUGAR BEET LOWERS ARE
TO (JET HIGHER PRICES
Billings. Muut . Nov. 27. It is an
nounced that -growers of sugar beets,
supplying the Great "Western Sugar
cjmpany, -will receive next year $1
more per ton for all grades of beets
than this year's contracts call for. It
will apply to all the company's fac
tories throughout the west.
The new-seale is said to be tha.highest
ever paid for sugar beets In the United
States. It ranges from 36 a ton for
beets with a sugar content of not less
than 12 and under 14 per cent, to 37.30
a, ton for beets carrying not less than
19 or more than 19.6 per cent for sugar
with a corresponding increase for high
er grades.
The new price is 30 cents a ton high
er than paid this year, the company
having, after the 1916 contracts were
made, given the farmers a 50 cent
bonus.
FUNDS ARE RAISED TO
PROSECUTE SLINGSBY CASE
London, Eng.. Nov. 27. Announce
ment was made today that sufficient
funds had been raised to carry the
Slingsby legitimacy case to the house
of lords and that the issue would be
fou;ht. Hearings may be begun with
in a fortnight.
Last month the house of lords grant
ed a postponement until December 1 of
the hearing in the appeal of the Slings
by case from the judgment of the
court of appeals, it having been stated
that the appellant was not in posses
sion of funds for prosecution of the
appeal. The court of appeals ruled
last March that an infant born in San
Fram isco and declared to be the lawful
son of Charles R. Slingsby was not the
rightful heir to the Slingsby estates
in England, valued at about $500,000.
MISSISSIPPI BOOSTERS COMING
ON TRIP TO THE WEST
Gulfport. Miss.. Nov. 27. Arrange
ments to operate a booster train start
ing from New Orleans into the heart
of the golden west, and terminating
at the Golden Gate, to be known as
"The Mississippi Exposition Special."
have been completed, and it is expect
ed that from 150 to 200 Louisiana, Ala
bama and Mississippi people will be
aboard.
The trip will be made next summer
and rover a period of 30 days. Stops
will be made in nearly half a hundred
western cities, towns and resorts, and
side trips will take the boosters to
many a far famed western retreat. Long
stops will be made In many of the Texas
cities, including Houston, San Antonio,
Galveston and El Paso.
ARIZONA AND NEW MEXICO
TO GET EXTRA U. S. JUDGES
Santa Fe, N JL, Nov. 27. That both.
New Mexico and Arizona are to be
...A, n canil fwlorill tllric-A In the
I near future, is regarded as certain.
1 Judge "W. IL Sawtelle, of Anzana, had
I intended to resign some time ago, ow
I ing to the strain of the work, but it is
said he was assured by the office ot
the attorney general that legislation
will be recommended to form a second
federal district in Arizona. Similarly,
in New Mexico, federal judge Pope's
death was hastened by overwork and
the creation of a second district with
headquarters at Las Cruces. is to be
pushed through congress, thus gitmg
president Wilson the naming of two
federal judges in this state.
FLOOD OF GOLD STILL
POURS IN FROM EUROPE
New York. Nov. 27. Further im-
i ports of gold from Canada were an
i nounced todat. J. I'. Morgan and cotn
! nany depositing $7,500,090 at the assay
j office. This makes a total of $496.-
000,000 in gout imports since the be
ginning of the year.
Another gold export to South
America, amounting to $1,009,000, was
announced. There were also domestic
telegraphic transfers to New Orleans
and San Francisco.
WII.SO.N Iti:COVEIt! HILW.TII.
Washington, D. C. Nov. 27. Presi
dent Wilson's cold was so much better-
I today that he went out for an early
1 morning game of golf.
PHDTDGDLWELL
U BO
Withdrawal of Pershing
Satisfies, but 40 Day De
lay Is Annoying
By Awiated Press.
Queretaro, Mex.. Nov. 27 While
awaiting the official text of the American-Mexican
protocol signed last week
at Atlantic City. N. J., Mexican offi
cials here seem fairly well pleased with
the protocol, but are rather dissatis
fied with the 48 day delay in the with
drawal of Gen. Pershing's expedition.
It is also known that certain lead
ers have vigorously opposed any agree
ment that would permit the pursuit
into Mexico of bandits by the American
troops as outlined by secretary of the
interior Lane, it being stated that such
pursuit can only be regarded In the
light of an invasion. Other influential
men, howev"er, have made the declara
tion that the signing ot the protocol
is the beginning of an understanding
which will wipe out causes for disa
greement between the two countries.
Work of Convention.
X credential revising committee,
composed of 15 members, including six
congressmen under the Madero regime,
known as "renovadores," was appointed
at the second session of the principal
assembly. .
There was considerable debate over
the political responsibilities of the
"renovadrores" because they had con
tinued in the Huerta congress after
the death of Madero. They were finally
accepted, however, when a message
was read from Gen. Carranza. stating
the six men had remained in the
Huerta congress upon his (Carran
xa's) instructions. Their purpose was
to obstruct the work of the Huerta
body, preventing, if possible, the secur
ing of foreign loans and" to. bring about
the complete dissolution of the con
gress. At the forenoon session. 17 creden
tials were apnrove4 and ohb rejected.
Belden Presents Divorce Latrs.
SsaHuel-eldeifr" "ilexTeSn consular
agent at San Antonio, Texas, submlted
to Gen. Carranza copies of divorce laws
of New York. Illinois. Washington,
Texas and other American states.
Belden made tho trip at Carranza's
request.
It is planned to study the American
divorce laws and from the.n gather ma
terial for the formation of a uniform
divorce system in the new Mexican
constitution to be worked out by the
constitutional assembly now in session
here.
GEN. CALLES IS NOMINATED
FOR GOVERNOR OF S0N0RA
By Associated Press
Douglas, Ariz.. Nov. 27. The name
of Gen. P. Elias Calles. military com
mander in Sonora, has been placed in
nomination for the governorship of the
state by the Aquiles Cerdan club of
Nacozari. Sonora. A governor w'll be
elected at the national elections, -idolfo
de la Huerta is the preconatiunional
governor of the state.
Gen. Calles is expected to accept the
nomination, but must resign his mili
tary command before so doing, in ac
cordance with an order from the war
ministry.
BIG COTTON ANDC0RN
CROP MAY GO TO WASTE
A large cotton and corn crop near
Torreon will KO to waste because of the
lack of transportation facilities, accord
ing to information brought to El Paso
recentlt. Lnless the owners provide
their own transportation, there will be
no movement, it is said, since the na
tional railways cannot handle it
One large firm that has been buying
cotton in Torreon lately has declared
that it will withdraw from business
soon, unless the Villa menace is re
moved It is said that the rich crops
. .. .av.atru.t Mic jiiteiy io prove an
attraction to the bandits.
MEX. TROOPS NEAR PERSHING
ARE ORDERED TO JUAREZ
Br Associated Prew.
Field Headquarters. American Puni
tive Expedition. ". x By Military Tele
graph to Columbus. N. M. Nov. 27. All
Carranza troops in northwestern Chi
huahua have been ordered concentrated
at Juarez. Carranza garrisons at Ma
dera. Pearson. EI Valle. Namiquipa.
Casas Grandas and Ascension are af
fected by this order. How many men
are involved in fie movement is not
known.
CAItRANZV OFFICER ACCITSEI)
OF IIOHIIUUV IS IJXKCUTED
Br Associated Press.
Laredo. Texas. Nov. 27. Lieut. Jesus
Jaramillo, of the Constitutionalist army
has been executed for alleged partici
pation in a robbery in Mexico City, ac
cording to newspapers from the cap
ital. One newspaper says railroad traffic
between Mexico and Veracruz has been
paralyzed by a strike of railroad employes.
T
Work For Your Boy
GKXTUS is a wonderful Uim. But the greatest ot all genius is the
genius for hard work. Work is a revolutiomzer. It will accomplish
everything tor a person.
Work nude the greatest painter, the finest doctor, the best dentist, the
most eloquent speaker, the gifted teacher, the most influential man in the
world.
The Y. 51 C. A. puts the boj to work and trains and develops him
through work, though he may call it play. His surplus energy is not sup
pressed but merely directed into right channels.
This opportunity for complete development through the Y. M. C A. is
open to all boys of El Paso.
The Herald has a job for your boy "as salesman. A little pleasant work
will secure for him the Y. XI. C. A. opportunities. Call on E E Fn. circu
lation manager.
SlfUNIlTf!
AGAIN?
Events At Chihuahua City
Uncertain; Wires to Slate
Capital Still Down.
NORTH 6f CITY
BELIEVED CLEAR
Terrazas Station Reporb the
Smoe of the Work Train
Sent to Repair Lines.
CARRANZA troops which have been
occupying garrisons in north
western Chihuahua are now being
concentrated in Juarez for use m re
inforcing the troops of Gen Jacinto
B. Trevtoc engaged in. battle i :ai
huahua City with bandits cop m laueci
by Francisco Villa.
A train of troops arrit ed it Juarez
Monday from Guzman, near the Ameri
can lines. Another troop train carry
ing the troops from Casas Grandes and
Peanon is expected to arrite this
evening.
The Guzman troops remained In their
cars in the Juarez railroad yards
ien,dCeSiKoirUUl 0W
Fatr of Capital in Doubt.
Though the fate of Chihuahua City.
Mex remained in doubt Monday, there
were some indications that Villa had
oen repulsed in the operations of Sat
urday and Sunday during which tint
communications between Juarez and
Chihuahua City were cut.
Communication is expected to be re
sumed at once, according to Gen. Fran
cisco Gonzales. A message was received
irom the station agent at Terrazas sta
tion. 2S miles north of Chihuahua, say
ing a repair tram was expected to
reach there at noon Mondav from the
direction of the state oapitaX The
smoke of the work train locomotive
cculd be seen near Corral, the Terrazas
agent said over the wire.
The officers in Juarez now believe
Francisco Villa has been dnt en away
from the northern part of the stata
capital. They base their belief upon,
the fact the work train was able to
leave Chihuahua Cit The railroad en
ters the capit. 1 irom the north and,
had there been ant bandits in the zon
to the north or northeast of the city
they would hate prevented the re-K'--train
from leaving to repair tht '.me.
aj Vlurcnla llovinz orth.
Carranza consul i-duardo tvr a' o
Bravo announced -VI.-n.1av the torccs
of Gen. Murguia were adtaicui..;
-teadilt northwari' toward ChinuarVa
ltt. ba.-in.; hi. t lenient on inf -mation
aid to hat. i..pn i.mo.i fi-a ..
I the Chihuahua capn..'.
j Bv AMciattd Pre
I pHIliniAlA, .MEX.. Not 2i hi
j courier to Marfa. Tex, Not. 2t
j Francisco Villa's automobile.
which was bcini- us. d bv him to di- L
us bandit:, against the Carranza. troops.
I was struck bt a shell fire todav jrd
i was abandoned near Fresno, south-
west of the citt The shell holes a- d
j bullet marks were plainlt seeu on tie
i sides of the bii, automobile when it
hb ioohi un tne battlefield after Villa
abandoned it and was foreed to i wo
away on horseback
Hard Flshtinc Snlurilat.
The battle today (Saturday) stalled
soon after the telegraphic communica
tion with Juarez was cut The wire
went down at 10 oclock a. m. and the
battle started shortly before 11 a. ro.
and was raging bt 11.30 a. m. The
bandits' attack covered the entire
southern front from east to west with,
Hanking operations to the east and
west.
The most desperate fighting occurred
on Zarco avenue within the city The
bandits threw their best equipped
forces against the entrenchments
which had been thrown up across this
street, and street fighting followed.
The Villa forces made every possible
effort to take these entrenchments,
which were the key to the defences of
the city proper.
The de facto infantry met these
charges with counter charges and the
battle waged ba- k and forth in this
narrow, adobe lined street until the
Villa bandits were driven out of the
(Continned on pane 4. CoL 4.)
it
