TIMES
VOL. XX NO. -217.
1UKHK, VKKMONT, MONDAY, NOVEMHKR 27, 1910.
riUCE,' OXK CKXT.
THE BARRE DAI
f
RUMANIANS
YIELD THE ALT
Bucharest Admits They've
Withdrawn Their Line
There
BULGARIANS AND
GERMANS ADVANCE
Invaders of Rumania Have
Crossed the Danube in
Two Places
The Teutonic campaign against Ruma
nia in developing rapidly, with a con
verging drive on Bucharest from three
directions in progress. An immediate
threat of tho capital seems greatest on
the southwest, where the invaders have
approached to within 50 miles, after
Field Marshal Von Mackensen had forced
the Danube at two points and effected
a junction with the armies of on falk
enhayn. They are pressing rapidly east
ward, after having broken Rumanian re
sistance on the lower Alt.
In Dobrudja, north of the Constanza
Tchernovoda line, the Russian advance
appears to have come to a halt. Fight
ing on the Macedonian front is less gen
oral on account of bad weather. Kx
tremely bad weather is also reported on
the Somme front, where there seeming
ly is no disposition on the part of either
the British or French to attack in force.
Bucharest, via London, Nov. 27. The
Rumanians have retired from the line
of the river Alt, the war office announces.
Sofia, Nov. 26, via London, Nov. 27.
The Bulgarian-German forces under
Field Marshal Von Mackensen crossed
the Danube ab two points, east of the
Alt valley, according to the official state
mcnv to-day. The first crossing was
made by the Bulgarians near Smstovo
about 50 miles east of the foot of the
Alt vallev, and the second by the Ger
mans near Somovit at the mouth of the
Alt.
used the same as the other famous di
visions. The 'official representative of the Aus
tralians told the Associated Press cor
respondent to-day that they would hav
been aggrieved if they had been treated
as inferior in organization, personnel of
material. He added that the recent
attacks had their natural difficulty, but
that the Australians and British had been
side by side and that the heaviest fight,
ing fell on tho shoulders of the Knglish
and Scottish and Irish divisions.
The German wireless story In charac
terizing recent attacks as "stupid and
futile" and made solely for the sake of
prestige had overlooked the fact that
the Australians brought in 70(M) prison
ers, said the representative of the Aus
tralians. He added that the Australians
had fought hard and suffered along with
the other good soldiers, but that they re
garded it as an insult for the Germans
to take up their cause. He concluded by
asserting that the Germans would be de
lighted to create a situation under which
they would be faced by no more Aus
tralians, but that this would be impossi
ble. The storms of the last few days
have virtually brought ail activities to
a standstill not even a tatiK showing
itself.
WHEAT PRICES
IN BIG CRASH
Great Excitement Attended
Fall in the Chicago
Wheat Pit
OVER 9-CENT LOSS
IN SOME CASES
INVADERS JOIN FORCES.
RUMANIAN ARMY
HAS BEEN TRAPPED
Foroes Retreating from Orsova are Re
ported by Berlin to Be in
Precarious Position.
Berlin, by wireless, Nov. 27. German
and AuBtro-Hungarian troops, advancing
on both sides of the river Alt in Wal
lachia, yesterday pushed back the Ruma
nian line beyond Topolog river, says the
official statement to-day. Alexandria,
Rumanian town 47 miles southwest of
Bucharest, was captured yesterday.
The Rumanian forces, which retired
from Orsova, hava been pushed further
to the southeast, the statement says
and are blocked by the approach of
other Teuton forces in the rear. n this
eector 28 officers and 1200 men were
raptured, together with three guns and
much munitions.
BULGARIANS LOST IN
COUNTER-ATTACK
IN CERNA BEND
Official Statement Issued in Paris Tells
of Repulse of Attack Italians
Continue to Advance West
of Monastir.
Paris, Nov. 27. Bulgarian forces on
the Macedonian front launched a coun
, ter-attack on the Serbians in the Cerna
' river region last night. The war office
announces. The Bulgarians were re
pulsed with heavy losses. The Italians
continue to make progress in the re
gion west of Monastir.
Little activity is reported in the
Somme sector or elsewhere on the west
ern front.
NEARING BUCHAREST.
Austro-German Forces Capture Town 47
Miles from Capital.
Fetrograd, via London, Nov. 27. The
war office announces that the retiring
Rumanians are resisting the Austro-German
forces in western Wallachia, avail
ing themselves of natural defenses. The
invaders have occupied positions on the
Vade river between Rochi DeVed and
Valeni.
The Russian announcement indicates
that the Austro-German forces are clos
ing in rapidly on Bucharest. Ved is
about 45 Miles from the city.
AIRPLANES OVER BUCHAREST.
Bombs Dropped and Several Persons
Were Killed.
London, Nov. 27. Telegraphing from
Bucharest under date of Sunday the
Morning Post correspondent says: From
ten o'clock Sunday morning until three
o'clock in the afternoon squadrons of
enemy airplanes flew over Bucharest and
the Chittle dropping bombs. Several per
sons were killed. Some of our airplanes
engaged the hostile craft.
Von Mackensen and Von Falkenhayn Get
Together in Rumania,
Berlin, Nov. 27, by wireless to Say
ville. Gen. Von Falkenhayn's troops in
vading Rumania from the north ami
west have effected a junction with Fieh
Marshal on Mackensen s forces that ad
vanced from the south and crossed the
Danube into Rumanian territory, the war
office announced yesterday,
Driving toward Bucharest, on Maok-
ensen's advance has reached the outskirts
of Alexandria, 47 miles front the Ruma
nian capital.
The Rumanians retreating eastward
from the lower Alt are burning towns
they retire, according to the official
statement, which also reports the repulse
of a Rumanian cavalry division that of
fered battle in protecting the retreat.
The Danube has risen to a high level,
sa vs the report, but v on Mackensen s en
tire army intended for the western Ru
urn man operations has crossed the river
under his personal inspection.
Advancing south down the Alt valley,
Gen. Von Falkenhayn s forces have cap
tured Rammicu (Raranitzu!) and Val-
cea.
Along the Black sea coast in Dobrudja
an attack on von Mackensen s lines aid
ed by a bombardment from warship,
was a failure, declares the official state
ment, which reads:
''Front of Archduke Joseph. Russian
companies again attacked, our position
near Batoa Neagra, in the Gyergy moun
tains, but failed to gain the slightest
success.
"In the Alt valley, Ramieu and Vahea
have been captured. On the heights
north of C'urtea-Dearges the Rumanians
are still offering tenacious resistance.
"In the territory east of the lower Alt,
German cavalry under Lieut. (Jen. Count
Von Schmeetow repulsed a Humaman
cavalry' division , that offered battle, the
German cavalry proceeding in a victo
rious advance. The road from the Alt
eastward is occupied by fleeing "cart col
umns. Their advance is marked by burn
ing towns.
"We are in touch with the forces that
crossed tho Danube.
Army group of Field Marshal Von
Mackensen. An advance by hostile in
fantry, assisted by fire from the sea,
along the coast against the right wing
of the Dobrudja army, failed.
' Under Field Marshal on Mackensen s
eyes the Danube army chosen for fur
ther operation in western Rumania
crossed to the other bank as planned,
We have arrived in front of Alexandria,
The Danube has risen high because of
a thaw. In righting their way across our
troops co-operated excellently, our brave
Pioneers included, with portions of the
mperial motorboat corps and the Aus-
tro-Hungarian Danube flotilla under com
mand of Capt. Lucich and Austro-Hunga-
rian Pioneer detachjnents of Maj. Gen.
Gaugl's forces."
Leading Houses Started the
Movement with .Big
Offerings
Chicago, Nov. 27. Wheat prices came
down to-day with a crash breaking in
some cases as much as nine and three
eighths cents a bushel. Big sales by
some of the leading houses started a
general movement to unload holdings
and gave an opening for aggressive sell
ing by the bears.
Talk of an armistice in Europe had
considerable to do with the weakening
of the market and so also had rumors
of the presence of fighting submarines
off the American Atlantic coast. Con
tinued reference to a possible embargo
by the United States was likewise a
factor. v
July wheat, in which the greatest de
cline took place, fell to $1.45, as com-
pared with $1.54 and one-eighth and $1.54
and three eighths at Saturday's finish.
PROPOSE NEW
BUILDING FOR
OLD NORWICH
"Rough Riders" of Spanish-American
War Fame, Having Adopted the In
stitution, Propose to Do Some
thing Nice for It,
New York, Nov. 27 Preliminary plans
for the "Rough Riders" of Spanish War
fame to build and endow a "Commons
Hall" at Norwich university, Northlleld,
Vt., were announced here las nigjit. The
university, a military school founded in
1810, which was the alma mater of Ad
miral Dewey, Gideon Welles, secretary
of the navy under President Lincoln;
thirteen governors of different states,
fifty-two generals in the regular army,
six rear admirals, two cabinet officers and
three ministers to foreign counties, re
cently was "adopted" by the rough rid
ers. .
At the outbreak of the Spanish war, it
is said, eighty per cent of the graduates
and former cadets of Norwich volun
teered for service.
Major-Guneral Leonard Wood, who first
commanded the rough riders, and The-
odore Roosevelt, who led them at San
Juan, Cuba, have written letters to the
committee commending the pUn. The
proposed new building will cost $l."0,
000 and will include a gvmnasium, din
ing room, faculty quarter and riding
ball and stables.
SHIPS WARNED
OF "SUB" PERIL
Great Apprehension Is Felt
in New York Marine
Circles
MAV SHIP MILK TO BOSTON.
the
BECAUSE OF WARNING
OF BRITISH CRUISER
Two German Under -Sea
Boats Are Said to Be
Lying in Wait
VERMONT DID WELL.
MANY SHOTS FIRED.
COMMISERATES BUCHAREST.
Von Falkenhayn Hints There Are Sorry
Times Ahead.
Hcrmannstadt, Transylvania, Nov. 27
(to the Associated Press via Berlin and
bv wireless to Savville). At a luncbenn
which Gen. Von Falkenhavn, commander
of the forces on the northern Rumanian
front, gave yesterday to a Bmall group
of neutral correspondents, he remarked
to the Associated Press representative
that although "nothing in this world is
so certain that one dare predict anything
with Safety," Bucharest will be an un
comfortable place for anyone to be in
when the Germans get their guns trained
on it.
Although Gen. Von Falkenhayn de
clined absolutely to commit himself to
anv prediction as to when this might oc
cur, and even questioned the purely mili
tary advantage of possession of Buch
arest, with its thousands to feed, when
the same result might be accomplished
bv gradually decimating the Rumanian
army, he left not the slightest doubt in
the minds of his hearers that he consid
ered it a possibility of the immediate future.
Gen. Von Falkenhavn was reticent as
to the probable length of the Rumanian
campaign, on the ground that the con
tinued spring-like weather might hasten
the end, while even one sharp cold spell
might lengthen it materially. Although
refusing to assume the role of prophet,
he appeared supremely eonhdent of the
ultimate result. He paid the Rumanian
soldiers the highest compliments upon
their desperate bravery and discounted
stories of cowardice or inefficiency on the
part of the Rumanian officers.
Before Crazed Man Was Subdued in Phil
adelphia.
Philadelphia, Nov. 27. An unidentified
man, armed with a large calibre revolver
and plentiful supplis of cartridges, ter
rorized passengers in a trolley car in the
central part of the city last night, en
gaged in a running battle with a squad
of policemen and hundreds of citizens and
finally was captured after he had wound
ed five of his pursurers and probably
was fatally wounded himself. One of
the pursuers, a negro, was shot three
times and is not expected to live. Of
the other, but one was seriously hurt.
With drawn revolver, the man, who
boarded the car at a point up town, had
for several blocks kept the passengers
and crew in fear of their lives. Upon
reaching 12th and Pine streets, the mo-
torman made a dash for the police sta
tion on the corner. In a moment, a
dozen blueconts appeared and the fusil
lade began. The man who caused the
trouble dashed down the street firing
as he ran. Hundreds of citizens joined
in the chase and more than 200 shots
were exchanged before the. fugitive was
brought down with a bullet in the breast.
In Contributing to the National Demo
cratic Fund.
New York, Nov. 27-Wilbur W. Marsh,
treasurer of the Dcinoeratic national
ommittee, made publiq here last night
the official statement of campaign con
tributions and disbursements which will
be filed in Albany to-day in compliance
with the law of New iork state. Mr.
Marsh announced that tfcsre is still a de
ficit of more than $.'100,000.
The statement, largely a duplicate of
the one filed in Washington, gives the
total amount contributed to the Pu
ocratic fund as $1,584,548, of which 45,
558 was received in amounts of less than
$109. It contains, however, an additional
list of contributors of $100 or more up to
November 24 and also an itemized state
ment of disbursements made thrpugh the
New York headquarters.
In the numlier of contributors, Texas
led with 15,622, with- an average of Sfi
per persons Every town in Vermont
with over 5(H) population sent a contribu
tion, the total from that state being ap
proximately $14,000. Referring to Ver
mont's showing Mr. Marsh said:
II the same ratio hart been main
tained throughout the country a cam
paign fund of more than $14,000,000
could have been raided by subscription."
New York state was the heaviest con
tributor, with Illinois, Ohio, Pennsylva
nia and Texas following in the order
named. The statement shows that $18,-
000 of the amount raised in New York
state was turned over to the treasurer
of the New York state committee.
Barre Producers Are Considering
Prospect.
Tho recently organized Barre Milk I'm
ducers' association held - a meeting in
South Barre Saturday night with a fairly
good attendance. They met to hear the
report of the committee, which was to
look up the possibilities of getting a milk
cur into Harre. B. A. Manchester of Ban
dolph, who represents the Hood company
in this territory, ami Mr. Putnam, who
is in charge of tho Hood plant at Ran
dolph, were present at the meeting. They
explained the price and terms which the
Hood company is paving. They stated
that (he December milk would not be less
than $2.15 a hundred for 4 per cent milk
with a premium of three cents a hundred
for each point over the 4 per cent and
10 a hundred additional premium for
cooling the milk and complying with the
conditions of the stable. These were
November prices, he said, and in all prob
ability the price would be five or 10 cents
more per hundred. Mr. Manchester spoke
of establishing a receiving station at
Barre and also at Williumstown provided
suitable buildings could be obtained anil
a sufficient amount of milk promised to
warrant a start.
The committee reported that there was
without doubt plenty of milk within
reaching distance of the Burre station,
so that the company could afford to
start their car at once. Not all of the
New York. Nov. 27. Annreliension is
felt in shipping circles here in view of
the large number of passenger and
freight steamers Hearing port and the
reported proximity of German subma
rines The minora of ttnvorul ilut-a trii
the effect that two Gorman nm(.rsca . f''rn.crs were present at the meeting but
boats had broken through the allied cor-I " b,(.m.t h,alf 'nm"lh. to "tthe car was
don and were on the way to the Atlantic ! "'"-"i"l at that time and Mr. Mancbes
coast, received official recognition in a j ten plans to spend some time in Barre
general warning sent out last night by jsnd vicinity this work in canvassing tho
the British cruiser Lancaster off Sandy I ntory and interviewing farmers to see
vi whether they desire to sell their milk to
TRAGIC DEATH
OF THEATRE MAN
Joseph Brooks Fell from
His Eighth-Story
Apartment
HE HAD SUFF VED
NERVOUS BT AKD0WN
Mr. Brook 'A7as General
Mana- for Klaw
L . rlanger
Hook.
Not since the U-53 entered Newport
harbor and the following day sank sev
eral British merchant vessels has there
been so much uneasiness in marine cir
cles. In adiljtion to nearly a dozen big
liners headed for this port, almost a
score of French and British merchant
men have sailed within the last two
days and all are within the zone sup
posed to be the most dangerous. A num
ber of large steamers are also approach
ing Boston and Philadelphia.
I he cruiser Lancaster, which is sta
tioned 15 miles southeast of Sandy Hook,
sent out a wireless message at 0 o'clock
last night, warning all steamers flying
the flags of tho entente allies to beware
of German submarines. The Lancaster
directed the commanders of all vessels
Hie Hood company. Tho Hood company
takes cream as well as milk and pays for
it on the butter fat basis. For Novem
lier they paid 41 cents a pound for butter
fat. It is likely that the December price
will be a little higher.
It seems that tho shipment of a milk
car for this section and Willianistown
will allow the farmers to receive a better
price for their product than they at pres
ent obtain.
Now York, Nov. 27. Joseph Brooks, a
theatrical manager, was killed to-day
by a fall from his eighth-floor apartment
in Kast "Oth street. He was general
manager of the Klaw and Krlangor pro
ductions and was the first producer of
Ben Hur.
Mr. Brooks several week ago suffered a
nervous breakdown, according to his
family. He was 65 years of age.
SINGER SHOT HIMSELF.
WAS LEADING SUFFRAGETTE.
EMPERORS TO CONFER.
ARE WELL TREATED.
Australians Deny Stories Coming from
German Source.
With the British armies in France,
Nov. 2ti, via London, Nov! 27. (From
a staff correspondent.) Wireless reports
from Berlin Saturday charging that the
Knglish have favored their own contin
gents at the expense of the colonial
troops, particularly the Australians, in
the recent lighting, were denounced to
day at the Australian headquarters as
faNe. That the Australians have been
in hard lighting is true. They have the
Nicholas of Russia and Ferdinand of Ru
mania.
Copenhagen, via London, Nov. 27. A
Sofia dispatch to Vossiehe Zeitung of
Berlin says that Kmperor Nicholas of
Russia has arrive,! at Kiev on the way
to the Rumanian front, where he will
confer with King Ferdinand of Rumania.
WILSON'S COLD BETTER.
So He Went Out for Game of Golf This
Morning.
Washington. D. C, Nov. 27. President
WilMn's cold was so much better to-dv
, . t . 1 :
mm nr urm tmi lor an tkiit moiningi
honor ot being regarded as among me foil game, lie nJ a number ot engage-
Lett troops on this front anl have been ments for the day.
Mrs. Inez Milholland Boissevain Died in
' Los Angeles.
Los Angeles, Cal., Nov. 27. Mi's. Inez
Milhollland Boissevain, widely known
suffragist and welfare worker, died in a
hospital here shortly before midnight
Saturday night after an illness of ten
weeks. She was 30 years old.
Mrs. Boissevain was stricken sudden
Iv while addressing an audience in this
city during the recent political campaign
and fainted on the platform at the meet
ing. She was removed to a hospital and
her husband and parents rushed from
New York to join her here. Miss Vida
Milholland, her sister, was with her when
she was stricken end had been a con
stant attendant since that time.
Mrs. Boissevain's illness was diagnosed
as aphlastic anemia and blood transfu
sion was resorted to in attempts to im
prove her condition. Miss Vida Milhol
land twice gave blood for this purpose
and on four other occasions friends sub
mitted to the ordeal in hope that benefit
would result. After each transfusion
the improvement was followed by relapses.
A few days ago the physicians in
charge stated that there was practical
ly no hope for Mrs. Boissevain but there
after she rallied and it was thought she
might recover. Late yesterday she le-
gan to gink. Her husband, her parents,
and her sister were present when she
died.
It was stated that Mrs. Boissevain's
trouble originated in her tonsils, which
became inflamed as the result of too
constant speaking during the campaign.
She had been weakened by over exertion
and when she became ill failed to resist
the advance of the disease.
Arrangements were completed to send
the body of Mrs. Boissevain to her home
in New Yjik to-night for burial. No
funeral semces will be held here, it was
announced.
Many messages of sympathy were re
ceived by members of the family from
friends and prominent workers in the
woman suffrage cause.
BLAMES RAT FOR FIRE
TO CREMATE ONE BODY.
Which Damaged Fish Hatchery at St.
Johnsbury.
St. Johnsbury, Nov. 27. A fire which
promised to reach serious proportions but
for its timely discovery broke out at the
tish hatcheries Sunday morning. L. R
Noyes, who has been staying in the
hatchery temporarily for a few nights a
watchman, awakened when nearln suffo
cated bv the heavy smoke, Jlc found
the smoke to be issuing from the labora
tory room and immediately closed the
doors between the hatchery and the lab-
atory.
A three-quarters of an inch hose that
happened to be coupled to a faucet near
by was used to good advantage for a few
minutes.
Supt. Dinsmore, who had been called,
arrived with a fire chemical from the
house winch, with another small chemi
cal in the hatchery, was sufficient to put
out the blaze.
At attempt to call the fire department
was futile as the telephone wires, which
happened to pass through the place where
the fire was located, had become fused,
so Mr. Dinsmore 'a son started for the fire
station on horseback. Tho department
responded promptly but the fire was un
der control when they arrived.
The fire was discovered about 5:13 a.
in., and had started in a locker in the
laboratory room. The locker had not
been opened for a number of weeks, ac
cording to Supt. Dinsmore, and he was
of the opinion that there might have
been some hiatches in )he clothing that
was in the looker and that a rat might
have lighted them.
The damage was comparatively slight
and wa confined to two lockers that
were burned, and to the badly smoked
walls of the laboratory room, so called.
as it was intentionally intended for that
purpose, but lately has been used bv the
employes to eat their meals in. Other
than the theory that the fire started from
matches in the locker. Supt. Dinsmore
has no idea how a tire could possibly
start there, as the nearest tire is in the
big boilers at another part of the build
ing.
GLENUGIE MEETING.
Was Held Saturday Evening and Officers
Were Elected.
At tho annual meeting of the Glenugie
club, w hich was held in Clan Gordon hall
Saturday evening, there was a large
to keep a sharp lookout, to show no more gathering of the members and a lively
lights than were necessary and to avoid degree of interest was manifested in the
so far as possible the regular lanes of j reports of the officers, covering the
steamship travel. j twelve-month closing. The club emerged
A wireless warning was flashed at sea from a very successful vear and begins
to tho American line steamship Kroon- the journey toward another milestone
land, which arrived here to-day from with high hopes. Its members realize
Liverpool, according to the vessel's com-! that tho organization forms a tangible
inandor, Captain Barman. Passengers on : bond that links thorn with the hind of
the American line, steamer Philadelphia, their birth and they have assured them
which also arrived to-day from Liver- selves that no lack of interest in the
pool, said that the ship was illluminated ,cliib shall grow up to defeat its poret
last night and that lifeboats were swung uation. William Mellardy was elected
out ready for a possible emergency. Cap- president for 1917, Alexander Cowie the
tain Cady said, hasvever, that he had
heard or seen nothing of submarines.
HOUSE AND BARN BURNED.
Flames of "Maple Hill" Fire Seen From
Barre Highlands.
From the highlands about Barre the
fire which destroyed a house and barn of
Fred L. Laird, the Montpelier attorney,
in the "Maple Hill" section of Marshfieid
was distinctly visible last evening be
tween 0:30 and 10:30 o'clock. The prop
erty was located near Laird's mill and
was not occupied. The cause of the fire
has not been determined.
treasurer, and Charles Keith the vice
president.
The annual banquet of the club, it is
expected, will be hold at Yuletido, and
another meeting will take place in the
near future, when plans for the event
will be completed..
KNOCKED OFF TRAIN.
MONTPELIER
In probate court to-day the will of
Elmina Kinney, late of Plainficld, was
proven. The will of Eliza A. Dale, late
of Montpelier, was presented for probate
Bert W. Daniels of Middlesex settled his
account as administrator of the estate of
Joseph Cadinan, late of Middlesex.
Twin boys were born at Hoaton hos
pital yesterday to Mr. and Mrs. C. Claude
rishor. being grandchildren of Mr. and
Mrs. Edward Dcnieritt.
P. D. Smith left Sunday evening for
Springfield, Mass., where he will make
an extended visit with relatives.
Miss- Bessie Forbes, who has been em
ployed for several years in the business
department of the local telephone com
pany, left Saturday afternoon for her
home in Greenfield, Muss., for an ex-
tendid visit because of ill health.
Miss Laura M. Burbank, clerk of the
dustrial accident board, commenced to
day a week's vacatiofl which she will
spend with friends in Rutland and at
her home in St. Johnsbury.
Mrs. C. W. Guernsey left this forenoon
for Minneapolis, Minn., where she will
make an extended visit with relatives.
Eugene F. Rand commenced Saturday
his winter vacation from bis dutiosas
conductor on the mail train of the Mont
pelier 4 Wells River railroad, and with
.Mrs. Rand will leave the first of Decem
ber for St. Petersburg, Flu., to pass the
winter.
Prayer service was held yesterday aft
ernoon for Miss Eliza A. Dale at her
jlate home on Bailey avenue, the remains
being t;iken to Waitsficht for the fu-
at
Conductor Michael Horrigan Hurt
Montpelier Junction.
After being knocked off the side of a
freight car by tho platform roof, as his
train was shifting at Montpelier Junction
shortly before midnight Saturday night,
conductor Michael Horrigan, one of the
oldest conductors on the Central Ver
mont railroad, crawled on his hands and
knees to the station and was taken to
Hoaton hospital. He is suffering from
bruises and the shock, with pneumonia
feared. His home is in St. Albans.
FUNERAL OF 'GENE SULLIVAN.
neral and interment.
TALK OF THE TOll'X
William More returned to the city last
evening, after passing a week with rela
tives in Windsor.
Alexander Smith returned to his homo
in South Kyegate last evening after vis
iting friends on Spaulding street over the
week-end.
Mrs. Alice Moore, who has boon stay
ing with her daughter. Mrs. Clyde Bixby
of South Main street, since Mrs. Bixby
underwent an operation earlv in the fall
returned to her home in Boston this
morning.
Mrs, W. H. C'ardell of Bristol, who was
operated on at the Mary Fletcher hos
pital, returned Tuesday to her home in
Bristol. Later she will go back to Hur
lington for another operation. Mrs. Car
dell is a sister of Mrs. C. J. Allen of
Beckley street.
Roy Suther arrived in the city last
night and will spend several days visit
ing friends and relatives in Barre and vi
einity, while en route from his home in
Burlington to New Haven, Conn., where
he has secured employment in one of the
New Haven machine shops.
James T. Marrion of Franklin street,
who has boon absents on a business trip
of several weeks in the interests of the
granite manufacturing firm of Marrion 4
O'Leary, returned to the city yesterday.
Saturday Mr. Marrion witnessed the an
nual football game between Holy Cross
Walter S. Knowles of Worcester, Mass.,
Was Probably Overworked.
Boston, Nov. 27. Walter Stanley
Knowles, 38 years old, a teacher of voice
with a studio at his homo, 12 Queen
street, Worcester, sent two revolver bul
lets into his head and if third into his
breast, just above the heart, in his room
at the Hotel Thorndike early yesterday
morning. He was taken to the City hos
pital, where his name is on the danger
list. No motive for his act is known,
though it is known that he had been
overworked recently.
Knowles registered at the hotel at 7
o'clock Saturday night, and was nssigned
to a room on the third floor. At 1:30
m. yesterday a guest in an adjoining
room heard groans ami notified the night
lork. When the door was forced open
Knowles was found on the floor. Beside
him was an old-fashioned revolver, with
three empty chambers. On the table was
a note asking that Rev. Vincent F. Toni-
lmson of 32 Irving street, Worcester, and
the Sessins company, undertakers at 71.
Pleasant street, Worcester, be notified.
Knowles is one of the soloists at tho
First I'nitarian church in Worcester, and
as such should have been in attendance
yesterday morning. Roy. Vincent E.
Tomlinson. pastor of Trinity Methodist
Episcopal churcht to whom Knowles loft
a aealod letter, informed the pastor of
the church that Mr. Knowles was in the
Boston City hospital and would not at
tend service. He has boon a very promi
nent figure in Worcester church and mu
sical circles for a numler of years. Ho
is a fine tenor singer and a member of
the Schumann and Orpheus quartets, two
of the best known male quartets of tho
city. He has been much in dojnand for
funeral and concert work.
Close friends believe be must have been
temporarily insane to attempt his life.
He has been overworked of recent months
owing to his close attention to 40 pupils
in voice, in addition to much concert
work. They also say that it is possible
the death of his mother. Mrs. Charlotte
Knowles. which occurred in July, may
have preyed on bis mind sufficiently to
undermine his health. He was greatly
attached to her.
VETERAN SOLDIER AND COBBLER.
That of Other Sister to Be Buried in
Brattleboro."
Perry. N. H., Nov. 27. The double fu
neral of Miss Almira Knight, aged 86.
and her sister. Miss Eunice Knight, aged
P2, both natives of Brattleboro. Vt., but
who were visiting their niece, Mrs. Low
ell M. Clark, took place yesterday at the
home. The body of the older sister will
be cremated and the bodv of the other
was taken to Vermont for burial.
WAS BR00KFIELD MAN.
W. Blakeborough Died at Supper Table
in New Gloucester, Me.
New Gloucester. Me- Nov. 27. J. W.
Blakeborough died at the supper table in
the farmhouse of Howard Locke here
last night. He was canvassing for a
farm paper which is published in Sprinir-
field, Mass. His home waa in Brookfield,
Vt.
V .viu of 11 1 i-l n tin incnnnini-ii nii-it
Was Held at St. Monica's Church This, :,.'; , ,T c,, ',.. ;fr.
Morning. i l,,mmi.sionpr of Weights mid Measure
The funeral of Eugene Sullivan, for (j,orge E. Carpenter in regard to the
many years a well known Depot square ork of the department,
granite manufacturer, whose death at The state auditor department is mak
his home, 114 Park street, Saturday j ., out orders for the disbursement of
morning followed a long illness, was held the appropriation made for schools, the
at St. Monica's church this forenoon at
9 o'clock, the parish priest. Rev. P. M.
MoKenna officiating. The bearers were:
Michael Keefe, Patrick Brown. J. Ed
ward McNulty, Patrick Armstrong, Sam
uel Kingston, and Daniel J. Sullivan. In
terment w-as made in the Catholic, ceme
tery on Beckley street.
FAMILY OF SEVEN LOST.
Burned in Lewis Wilson's Hoc at West
ape May, N. J.
Cape May, N. J., Nov. 27. 1-wis Wil
son, his wife, mother-in-law, and four
children were burned to death in a fire
that destroyed the Wilson home in West
Cane Mav yesterday. The famiiv was
asleep when the fire broke out and it:few friends in Montpelier and the mar
had gained such headway when neigh- risire was not made public until Satur-
Milford Sowles of Roxbury and II. " f " . ! ,nsl,lmr V
w men lxuiis louiHsi oi tins oiiv partici
pated. At the office of the city judtre at city
hall this forenoon at 11 o'clock, Mrs.
Clio Hurlburt of Barre Town ami Earle
H. Silloway of 13 South Main troet were
married by Justice of the Peace H. W.
Scott. Bride and groojn were unattend
ed. The groom, the son of Herbert O.
Silloway. a well known Strafford farmer,
obtained the consent of his father in
writing liefore the ceremony took place.
He i employed in Barre as a teamster
and the couple will make their home on
South Main ..trcet.
. carriage owned by Cutler Bros., was
1015 law having taken the work from the
state treasurer and given it to the state
auditor. The apMrtionmcnt is made by
the state commissioner of education.
Miss Florence Croteau went Sunday
to Newport, N. H.. where she will make
a week's visit with relatives.
The fire department was summoned
George P. Lund Was Nearly 79 Years of
Age.
George P. Lund passed away at his
home, 22 Third street, Saturday night at
0:30 o'clock. He hail lieon in failing
health for several months, although ho
had boon confined to the house but a fort
night. Mr. Lund was a veteran of the
Civil war and could claim the distinction
of leing one of tho oldest active shoe
makers in Now England, having worked
at his cobbler's bench for nearly tiO years.
He is survived by his wife, who was for
merly Miss Martha Warcher, to whom
he was married in Pierniont, N. It., in
IStiS. Two years hence the couple would
have celebrated their golden wedding an
niversary. He also leaves two brothers.
Harvey J. Lund of Warren. N. H.. and
Edward Lund, who lives in Idaho: and a
stepdaughter. Mrs. George R. Shcrwell
of Lneonia, N. II.. who was with her fos
ter father at the hour of his death.
Tho deceased was born in Bradford in
1S3S and would have observed his 70th
birthday had bo lived until Jan. 20. Ho
came to Barre 25 years ago and estab
lished a shoe repairing shop. I'ntil the
last he continued to work busily at the
bench. He was a member of R. B. (Van
dal! post. No. 50. G. A. 1?.
A life of varied activities crowded with
experiences ended with Mr. Lund de
mise. As a voung man he enlisted witn
a California reeiiuent and served honor
ably in the war between tho states. Ho
saw' hard lighting in several campaigns
and at the close of the war ho elected t
remain in Hie regular army. H was
while in the service that ho began the
sort of an adventurous life that appeal
to the imagination of many men. For a
time be was stationed with a body of
troopers on the plains of one of the great
western states and a member of an
aMivo unit in tho field be figured in a
number of bni-hes with the Indian-.
In
late yesterday afternoon, a chimney fire
Iwing responsible for a telephone call.
There was no damage.
Mr. and Mrs. Sumner A. Dole, who
were married a week ago Saturday at
Everett. Mas., have returned to Mont
pelier and are residing at Winter
street. Cards were issued to only a
t the McMahon house at the corner of badly snia-hod last evening when the'aft0r crs his ready faculty for telling
Northheld street and V inooski avenue horse attai ned to it heoiime frightened stories brought him many a listener.
while hitched in tho shed of Fred Per- tter completing his enlistment in the
rin of Onward street and ran back to ' r,.j,ilar army ho lived for a few year on
the livery stable on Washington street, jtho Pacific coast and later settled in Ari
The horse had boon driven to the I'errin i zona. Hi 'native state finally claimed
farm by E. C. Cutler. On lieing (right ! him as a jiermaiieiit resident, however,
enod, it started to hack out of the shed, land for more than a quarter-century be
the roar wheels of the wairon hitting ! had boon a familiar figure on the streets
a post support which snapped one of the 'of Harre.
wheels from the axle, thi causing tiiei Funeral wrii--s will lie held at the
bugggv to be dragged to the livery en , limw Tuesday afternoon at 2 o'clock.
bors ai-rived that it was impossible to day. Mr. Dole is a member of the Mont- jthree wheels and demolishing it in gen- j Bev. J. B. Reardon. past t of the I'niser
save anv of them. Ipeiicr hi:h school faculty and the bride ;ef3I: The hors had a long trail of men -ali-t church, officiating. The ),Iv will
Wood fires were used by the Wilson was Mi Florence Hinckley. Mr. and in pursuit, but wss not overtaken until lie taken to Ijo-oina. N. II.. wlien- it sill
for he tin.', and it is believed, a defeotne Mrs. Iole were teachers last year at it .-ached the ham. 1 he horse was not ! entombed until spring, when inter
chimney was the cause of the blaze. MonjHior w minary. injured in the ka-t, ment i to be made in Bavside c uictcry.
