J! lc )ft iff 3J jf! Jt lie. C )t jjt lt st Jf
FULL LEASED
WIRE DISPATCHES
CIRCULATION IS '
OVER 4000 DAILY
THIRTY-NINTH YEAR NO. 255
SALEM, OREGON, MONDAY, NOVEMBER 27, 1916
DDtn ipwrt rTjixTna on traxnb and nbw
A muu 1HU Vilil IS ffTANDft nVB GENTS
lip IJMtffflilSlll0iEEal
UMANIANS RETREATING
SUFFER HEAVY LOSSES
Germans Report ure of River Craft and Cargoes
Also Took 800 ied Wagons and Much Ammunition
I In Last Stand i anians Lost 28 Officers and 1200
Men Lack of hV From Balkans Causing Allies
.' Grave Concern . -
o
T ' Berlin, via Sayville tireless, Nov. 27. Attempt by
French troops to force an entrance at the south part of
St. Pierre Vaast wood, without artillery preparation, was
repulsed by German machine gun fire of therench gar
rison and a curtain fire by artillery, according to today's
official report.
The statement said there was only"-minor fighting in
the Somme sector. East of St. Mihiel, a . French raid
against a German post failed.
"East of Tigveni," the statement continued, "the Sax
on regiment 182, brilliantly assisted by the Newmafk
field artillery regiment number 54, broke through hostile
hnes ana captured irom tne enemy ten omcers, lour nun- u Angeios, cai., Nov. 27 Threnten
dred men and seven machine guns. ' "i with " i- w. w. invasion, southern
"In the Vedea sector, both sides of Alexandria have California counties m today ranging
1 nnnUnA ov,J nl,A for extra deputy sheriffs in every town.
,1, ,,
; r rom Jtiurnu-oevenn our
mainder of the Rumanians in
4-U r...4-V.nr.4- rnt,
UH5 6uuuicasu Aiicic utuci
wav. fine defeated enemv.
hundred men, three cannons,. twenty-seven filled ammuni
tion carts and eight hundred loaded vehicles.
"From the Danube ports between Orsova and Rusts
ohuk up to date six steamers and eighty tugboats have
fallen into our hands, all filled with valuable cargoes."
The statement declared hostile attacks by Russian
cavary and infantry in Dobrudja failed. An-advance of
Bulgarians-battalions repulsed the enemy from the fore
field of German positions east of Erchesec.
"The Danube army advances and, Rumanian resistance
is breaking," the statement concluded.
German Advance Unchecked.
London, Nov. 27. The German-Bulgarian
forces in Rumania are advancing
Ktendily, consolidating their positions
us they go, while Rumanian forces are
na uttHiiltlv rnfrn.itin..
.Statements Inibiv fi'nm r.ormnn H.il.
enrinn nnd 'itumaninn ennitnla nvrve.l on
tliis general view of the Balkan cnm-!man sources caused a Sis.-J Jf hope
iuign. Berlin reported enpturo of Alex-! llre totlf.V tnn Rumania may, after all,
uiidria and hinted at driving of a bolt ', extricate herself from the precarious po-m-ross
the onlv line of retreat'left for Bit!on ' which her Wallachian .forces
th Rumanian' forces bottled up in thelhRV' bee" plo?A ly Von Falkenhayn's
southwestern most rmrt of liftmnnin , concedcdlv brilliant strategic campaign.
The Bucharest statement admitted re-
treat from nlong the' Alt. This was
'..mill;...! kit u n. -,.... .1 .
li.iiiiHHI j UIIT ll'lIirglUU BlULrUirilt
explanation that the retirincr forces
were taking advantage of all natural
.features of that section to resist the
enemy advance.
If the German -statement is accurate,
tlm Teutonic forces now control nearly
."00 miles of the Danube, which forms
the southwestern border of Rumania.
The Russian officiul statement agreed
hat the Bulgarians had crossed the
ri.er near Simnitza and added that this
eu.-m.v force had placed observation
pints along the river Vede (Vedea) oc
moving positions between Valent (np-
arentlv Valeni), and Ruseilen
wnde-Va-
Jcui is H(l miles northwest of Alexandria,
xu that this statement would tend to
infirm the German claim of holding
Imth sides oi' Alexandria. It would also
(Onfirni the German official report
early todav of n junction being effected
lietwccn the two wings of General Von
ralkenliavn a army
The greatest interest was expressed
here in a dispatch from Copenhagen an
no'iming Hint Czar Nicholas of Russia
soft!
I'
'I!
DRiffltt
Tli' political ad is mightier than th'
f. . n . 1 nmit. nMtn, T ' nr. a human
h. read engle orator.
but t admit it ham
"l"'"'-
iroops navcpusnea me re-
the Orsova erouu towards 1
f WIV fl,;,.
ml uui xuiv-co uiuvn.cu men
- besides their saneuinarv
4-,- :l,4. 4.,iT.
had arrived at Kieff en route to the
Rumanian frontier, where he expected
to bold a conforeuceSvith ullied com
manders. Allies Get No NeWS.
London, Nov. 2" News fwm Ger-
of Prilno bnsis for t,liR hol)0 wns ,h
utter lack in oil the German official
TPnorta of nnv claimn of Iai-pa rnnturfa
J " " 1 .
o prisoners or war munitions. If the
Rumania nrmv had actually been trap
ped by the encircling movement around
Orsova and Turnu-Severin, reaching
over to Craiova, it was regarded as cer
tain the Berlin official reports would
have chronicled big enptures of men and
supplies. Furthermore, it is known here
that the Rumanians succeeded in re
moving all 'of their artillery from Cra
iova before the city fell into the hands
of the enemy. .
One other source of hope wns the re
I"rt trom ueriunn correspondent at
x-unveiinnii s
headquarters that
further progress beyond the Alt was
delayed because of the condition of the
roads. Both of these bits of news led
military experts here to reconstruct a
story of an orderly retreat of the Ru
manian forces from the angle on which
two arms of the Teutonic forces are now
ererting pressure. There was no dispo
'""". however, to disguise the fact that
Rumania is still perilously placed. If it
were summer weather and if the terrain
were not rain-soaked or muddy from
half frozen slush, the crossing of tho
Danube by the Teptonie forces, in an
effort to turn the flank of the Ruman
ians, might prove successful. As it in,
their presence on Rumnuian soil con
stitutes an ever present menace.
Reports here say that n number of
allied aviators have reached Bucharest.
It is believed also that Russia has by
this time poured heavy reinforcements
into Rumania, probably including a
large number oi caffltn. The greatest
handicap which the Rumanians have
had was their lack of aerial scouts to
seek out and report the sort of encircl
ing movements which have formed the
basis for on i nlkciyiayn 'g success.
Their artillery also has been out ranged
by the Germans.
As near as can be estimated here,
from official statements on both sides,
the battle line in Rumania now runs ap
proximately from the Transylvanian
Alpi north of Cnmpolung southwest
ward to a point a little- north of Curtea
De Aryes and thence to the Alt river,
probably somewhere about Romicu-Val-ru.
Following southward down the Alt,
the Rumanians apparently hold it to a
point slightly east of Hlntina. Eastward
again this line runs to a point a little
north of Alexandria. Here the Ruman
inns are at grips with the forces which
"
(Continued on page two.)
.United States Steel
-Makes New Record
New York, Nov. 27. With opening
snles of 15,000 sharps United States
Steel common Bold at 129 0-8 to 3-4,
up 5-8 to 3.4, new high levels on the
stock exchange today.
Republic Steel advanced one to 92
1-8, liutto and Superior, 1 1-8 to 09
3-8. Coppers, Bteel and equipment shares
generally showed narrow gains on first
sales.
New'York Airbrake and" Sugar stocks
wero strong during tne firat hour. Else
where iu the Hat profit taking and a
oear raid drove pi ices down one to two
points. United States Steel dropped,
hack to 12SV4, down 1V-! from tho open
ing. .steel had dropped to 127'j at 2
o'clock nearly a quarter of the trading
in a million share market being in that
issue. Copper, sugar and amcltii
stocks followed steel down.
The market closed weak.
Every Town in Southern Cali
fornia Prepares Reception
for Them-
to watch incoming trains and atop any
further demonstrations. The 22 Indus
dustriai workers arrested at Newimii
yesterday after they had cominandeered
a trnin at Moiave. and foreed the train
ercw to carry them, are Riving the au
thorities no little concern today.
The
original intention was to merely hold
the men for vagrancy, but alter tney
battered everything in the Newhall jail
and were prevented from escaping only
by the cordon ot armed Jicwliall men
surrounding the jail, a charge of wanton
destruction of public property is being
considered.
The men now in the comity jail here
are all in high spirits. They say they
wrecked the uastile merely as a protest
against its condition. The police have
orders to stop any meetings held by
those in sympathy with the prisoners.
11)
Warships Flash Warning Ger
man Submarines Are On
Atlantic Coast
New York, Nov. 2". Wireless flash
es from British cruisers directed to all
entento shipping in American waters,
warning them to be on the lookout for
German submarines, intensified reports
here today of German submarines near
ing the United States, preparing for a
wholesale raid on shipping.
The warning, which was first beard
fron the cruiser Jjincaster, advised ail
snips to travel witir tel lights and :o
be prepareil for an instant encounter
with a t' boat. The district included
the water between Sable Island and
north of Bermuda, west of -sixty tie
grees.
A rumor also reached New York that
two submarines nre among the small it-
lands near the New Jlnmpshirc coast
One of these is gaid to be the l.-!3;S, the
submersible which sunk five ships near
-Nuntuokct in October.
Among the ships of the entento due
to arrive this week are the Laconia and
I'annonia, Cunnrders from Glasgow;
I.niilund, a White Star liner from Ijiver
pool and tho Duca D'Acosta, Italian,
witn passengers trom tienon ana tue
British ship Bormudinn from Bcrmuit.i.
The American liners Kruonland aii(T
Philadelphia arriving here picked up
the warning flashed by warships and
the British station at Bermuda. It s
quoted as fqllows:
"Government station, Hamilton : A.
B. M. . (call for all .British merchant
vessels).
"Government warning begins: Ger
man submarines may be met anywhere
in the Atlantic, especially west of six
ty degrees west. Show no unnecessary
lights. Avoid ail trade routes and con
verging routes."
Southern Pacific
Has 100,000 Blaze
Sacramento, Cal., Nov. 27. Fire in
Southern Pacific car shop number three
gutted the shop, destroyed four roaches
and ran up a lo; of approximately
$100,000 within less than half an hour
this morning.
Of the coaches destroyed one is s pas
senger coach, one a diner, one an obser
vation car and one a mail roacb.
Tho theory is the fire started from a
gasoline tank from which workmen were
using in burning the paint off one of
the coaches with a stream of fire.
NOTHING IS LEARNED
FROM
CHIHUAHUA
THAT IREIIABIE
Fight For Possession of City
Still Continues Is About
A3 That Is Known
REPORTED TROOPS ARE
ON WAY TO AID TREVIN0
Lack of News Indicates City
Is Surrounded But Has
Not Surrendered
El Paso, Texas, Nov. 27. That the
attempted storming of Chihunhua City
by an army of 4,000 Villistus under per
sonal command of Villa was still in pro
gress early today was the declaration of
Lnited states department agents here
They based their statements upon th
action of the Mexican de facto govern
ment authorities in sending evcrv Cur-
rnnzisljis soldier available in northern
Mexico to the relief of the besieged
city. . 1
This is the 'fifth day of the bnttle for
possession of Chihuahua City, the kay
to Northern Mexico. In spite of every
effort by de facto officials no word of
the fate of Oeuernl Trevino nud his
garrison hns leaked out since noon Sat
urday. That Villa with his forces is
still encircling the city is certain.
Losses in the four day assault were
extremely heavy on both sides, accord
ing to reports reaching tho border.
"Cannot estimate losses," read one
message, "but the streets of the city
are filled with dead. Impossible to pick
up the wounded because of incessant
firing- Many buildings throughout the
city damaged bv heU fire.".
During the oarty attacks Saturday
morning A illistns penetrated uito the
city proper find maintained a foothold
for a time in Zarco avenue. Machine gun
fire hurled them back. At another time
the bandits gained the church of Hnn-
turio De Guadalupe on the wejt side of
tho citv. Shells from 73 millimeter
guns demolished the church and Carrnn
zista cavalry scattered the survivors.
City is isolated.
Although the telegraph wires to open
to Corral, within 10 miles of tho
state capitul since yesterday, the mili
tary operator at Corral intormed Gen
eral Gonzales at Juarez that no refugee
had reached him. A messenger sent
from the end of the line into Chihuahua
City bad not returned.
Iu United States official circles here
it was stated today that it wns certain
Chihuahua City was in a state of siege
or messengers would have brought news.
At the Bame time, it-was certain that
Villa has not yet captured the city.
United States secret service men here
declare the possibility of an attack up
on Juarz within a few weeks is looming
big. Two deserters from Salazar's baud
told the government agents that Snlnzar
announced to his men before the at-
( Continued on page nine.)
"Our Task Is to Destroy the
Rumanian Army; We Are Doing
It as Best We Can"-Falkenhayn
By Carl W. Ackcrman
(United Press stnlf correpondent)
Headquarters of General Von Knlken-
hyn in the Transvlvnninn Alps, Nov.
2iiViB Berlin niid Sayville wireless)
"Our task is to destroy the Human-
ian army and Hint we are uoing as
best we can."
So spoke General Fulkeiihayn today,
his brow wrinkled, but his eyes sparkl
ing- as he submitted to questions con
cerning the victorious progress ui m
troops against iiuniuiua.
Our livers, ue coiiunui-u, n-jiun
the Rumunian roads black with people
ami wagons bearing refugees fleeing
from li'tle Wullaelim toward the Alt
river. That is the terrific part of war.
That soldiers should suffer is war, but
that women and children should be put
to such misery that is-tcrrible. But U
was Rumania s choice. Rumania playea
with fire too long und is now getting
burned."
How soon do you expect to get to
Bucharest! " the general wns asked.
Do we want Bucharest : ne re
plied immediately, "hvery time we
take charge of a city we have to feed
the population. Wo arc not bothered by
that question we are soldiers. Our task
is to destroy the Hunianiifh army and
that we are doing as best we can.
"Mav I ask another question, ex
cellency?" I ventured.
The general s eyeiirows movcu up
and down and his eyes looked out
soarply as only Von Falkenhayn's eyrs
can do. He no. Med assent.
"When will the Rumanian army be
destroyed t" I nsked.
A few officers standing nearby smil
ed. But Falkenhayn looked straight at
his questioner as he said:
MISS ETHEL R1GD0N
STRUCK BY AUTO
DIES IHJSPITAl
Was Crossing Street Near
Methodist Church When
Accident Happened
HER SKULL IS CRUSHED
. IN STRIKING PAVEMENT
Never Regained Conscious
ness and Passed Away at
Nop Today
' Miss Kthel Rigdon, teacher of1 English
in the liigh school, and one of the best
known instructors in the city, wns
struck by on automobile last ntglit at
7:30 o'clock at tho intersection of State
and Church streets and us a result of in
juries received, died today noon at the
Willamette Sanitarium. The car was
driven by Asu Tindrdl, of 938 Trade
street.
In eoinptinv Ttith II. O. Clancy, form
er nthetic instructor of the high school,
Miss Riitdon was crossing Church street
on her way from the postoffice to the
Oregon Electric depot. They were al
most across the street when n car driven
west on State street bv Asa Tindall
dashed out of the night, turned into
Church street and instead of keeping on
the right side of tho street, swerved
to the left in making the turn, and
struck the two.
Miss Rigdon wns thrown to the pave
ment, suffering a fracture of the skull
uud other injuries. Sho was rushed to
the Willamette hospital and operated on
at once by Dr. C 11. Robertson, Dr. W.
II. Bvrd, Dr. 11. J. Clements and Dr.
I.. F. 'Griffith ,
Mr. Clancy, Wlio was with Miss Rig
don at the time of the accident, . es
caped with a feV minor bruises.
Mr. Clancy says the first intimation
he had of danger wns ft flash of light
He turned, or started to, when the car
itruck them. They were thrown about
20 feet. Clancy landed on his shoulder
and side und was not seriously hurt.
Miss Rigdon, however,' Was tossed head
foremost, her forehead striking the
paved street. At the hospital it was
discovered her skull was crushed so the
brains were exposed through its sutures,
and her loft side wos completely para
lyzed. She was unconscious when pick
ed up and remained in iiiut condition
until the end.
As yet no funeral arrangements have
been made, awaiting the arrival of her
parents who livo in Snn Diego.
She is survived by her parents, Mr.
and Mrs. W. T. Rigdon, of Snn Diego;
Lloyd T- Rigdon, of Snlein; a sister,
Mrs. Winnifred R. Chirk, of Sulem, and
two sisters in San Diego, Miss I.elia K.
KiirJon and Miss Harriet Kigdon.
'Kthel lone Rigdon was born at Jef
ferson, Oregon, May 31, 1879, where
sho spent her childhood. In 1888 she
came with her parents to Salem. After
f Continued on pge fine.)
' ' Un i ii or snow, n railroad accident,
or most anything can destroy the best
inndc plans. J have bten iu this war two
and a half years mid enn say the only
certain thing about it is uncertainty.
J I am only certuin of one
thing and
that is, that we will win."
Heated across from his excellency was
his chief of stuff. Turning next to him
for comment on the Rumanian opera
tions about Craiova, he responded:
In the warfare here the cavalry
goes forward like a snake over new
territory with its fangs out and wav
ing in the air. When those fangs en
counter un obstacle they are drawn
into the snake's mouth. Then, after a
while the fangs reappear and the snake
continues.
"At present we nre en route into
Rumania, following the advancing Ger
man troops."
To an observer here it seems that
Von Falkenhayn 's success in cutting
UI I IIIW Iuillttlllllll Hunt- Willi II niui-n will
.r, . i. it : ...i.:..t. ,..t.
into the Balkans destroys all possibili-
ties of the nllios briduinir the gap be
tween M una stir and halts Russia's
hopes of another road- to Constantino
ple. Whnt effect these oerations will
have on the Russiun front activity of
ficers refuse to discuss. Every act,
however, expects much more hard nnd
bitter fighting with the Kiiinnninns.
But they nre confident the operations
will go forward.
Falkcnhvn's left wing is literally
drawiiig two rings about tho remaining
Rumanian forces in Little Hnllaciiia
From Craiova an important industrial
city of 100,000 people, Falkenhayn's
f ( Continued on page nine.)
Rumors of U Boats
Send Wheat Down Hard
Chicago., Nov. 27. Wheat dropped
sharply today after a steady opening,
Important factors in tho decline were
rains in Argentine, rumors of proposed
submarine attacks which' might drive
commerce from the ocean, and heavy
realizing sales. December was down
3 1-2 below today's openinfnt $1.72;
May down 3 1-2 at $1.80; July down
i '3-8 at $1.49 3-8.
Corn dropped considerably, being af
fected by the fear of submarine attacks
and realizing. The quarantine of Ne
braska, Kansas and Missouri livcstocl
markets by the Chicago stoek yards also
helped press down the market- Decem
ber was down 1 3-4 at 00 3-4; May down
I 3-4 at 93 1-4; July down 1 7-8 at
92 7-8.
Oats showed a falling off. December
was down 2 at 51 7-8 and May down
half at 59.
I'rovisions were steady.
IM AT ALAMEDA
Story Is Denied But It Is Add
ed He Will Build There ,
Sometime
San Francisco, Nov. 27 Reports that
Charles M. Schwabb is planning to
build hugo steel mills in Alameda coun
ty on the Alameda side of tho Oakland
estuary, were circulated today follow
ing tho action of the Southern Pacific
in cancelling-a number of leases that
had been issued to business firms. Un
ion Iron Works men, who are familiar
with Schwab's plans, deny that the
steel magnate has any such plan at this
time, although they believe ho will
eventually erect such works.
They say that, at present, a plant
of that magnitude is impossible be
cause of the difficulty of obtaining
proper tuol. ,
General Manager Tynan, of tho Un-1
ion Iron Works, another senwao con
cern, today expressed hie confidence
that his company would get the con
tract for one of the four bnttlo cruisers
bid for which will be opened December
six. Each ship is to cost $15,000,000.
MAY CLEAR UP TRUNK
Accused Man Maintains In
nocence Taken to Scene
He Describes Murder
Portland, Ore., Nov. 27 Taken to the
scene of John Lind's murder in Novem
ber, 1015, George Bartholomew, arrest
ed in Seattle after a years hunt, was
required this afternoon to go step by
step over his version of the killing.
Bartholomew claims Linnd wns killed
by a mysterious third party named
Paul Lund, who then jammed tho corpse
into a green trunk and dropped it inlo
the Willamette river.
Shortly after noon a party of police
and stenographers, who reported every
word uttered bv the accused man, es-
curled Bartholomev to the S'nrk stroet
lodging house and into tho room where ,
Iinnd was beuten to neiun wiin n omen
jnck. Bartholomew pointed out the spot
where he says he stood and witnessed
the murder.
Afterward he was forced to describe
the killing in detail. Detectives alleged
that Bartholomew's narrative was false
and that the Lund whom ho accuses or
the crime is a mythical character. Po
lice declared there were several discrep
ancies in Bartholomew's story. Tne
nun, however, clung steadfastly to hs
denial of the murder.
Upon arriving here from Seattle,
where he was arrested, Bartholomew
told officers that John Linnd, tho slain
man, was killed by Paul Lund, a strang
er who has never figured in the case
before. Tho tiolice believe there is no
such man as Lund.
Bartholomw declares he heard Lund
anil Linnd quarreling over money, saw
Lund beat Linnd over the head with a
club, killing him, and later saw the
corpso crushed into a trunk.
This trunk was found in tho Wit
Inmetto river. Detectives said Barthol-
Inmpn
story would implicate nun as
- ---"J i i .1 ft t
" accomplice ecn suou.u lut v
as he claimed.
Burned To Death
In Portland Fire
Portland. Ore.. Nov. 27. One man is
dead and several persons injured as the
result of a fire which destroyed the
Cuduhy family hotel. The dead man,
W Hard U. Dictunr. salesman, was ouru-
ed to death when cut off by the flames
after having aroused other guests and
assisted them to safety. Of the injured.
Mrs. Blnncbe Ross is the most seriously
hurt. She was believed near death to
day from inhaling smoke.
GERARD WILL TAKE :
'S LAST
TO GERMANY
Empowered to Say United
States Will Execute Her
Sussex Note Threat
WILL SEVER RELATIONS
IF PLEDGES ARE BROKEN
Will Also TeD Berlin No More
Notes Will Be Written
On Subject
By Robert J. Bender.
(United Press staff correspondent.)
Washington, Nov. 27. Ambassador
Gerard will take back to Berlin next
week America's Inst word in the sub- .
murine situation.
This will include notice of the ad
ministration's plan to do no more note
writing, if there is any German viola- .
tion of submnrine war pledge lie will
be in a position to inform the German
authorities privately that the United
States intends to enrry out her Sussex
note threat of breaking relations if vio
lation arise. V
Gerard her today was booked for
luncheon with German Ambassador Von
Bernstorff, a strictly social matter, and
for early conferences with President
Wilson nnd stnto department officials.
Ttrt Avinctnil in tnlk in stntn rlenartmelit
nf f ic.inlu nbntit.whflt he knows of the
German mind concerning submarining,
likewise of peace possibilities and cem
mcrcial plans for after the war.
No OriBls Developed.
Tho time for Gerard's engngffment
with the - president was indefinite. .
though tho president's eold is better
and will probably not interfere with
the session. '
Since tho president's return from
Shadow Lawn he has received immedi
ately from Secretary Lansing every
scrnrj of information received at the
state department on the recent German
submnrine activities. At the same lime,
a now policy of absolute silence on th
submarine problem has been inaugurat
ed, both at the state department and
the White House.
Officials have frowned on feports;
both in this country and abroad that a
new U boat "crisis" was developing.
The searching inquiries made by tbi
government into the different sinkings"
by submarines during the lost month
have revealed the fact that the govern
ment is intent upon determining defin
itely whether the German government
has' embarked upon a new campaign en
dangering her assurances given at th
timo of tho Sussex sinking.
Must Have Facts First.
Some of tho reported sinkings wera
found to have been justified. Others are,
still to be cleared up. The terse state
ment made by a high stute department
officiul last week that the United States
will not indulge iu correspondence of
any kind in the event German subsaa
rino commanders break Germany 'a
pledges, it became known todaoy,
voiced the unanimous sentiment of high
officials. It wus clear, that merely ap
parent violation of pledges would nut
bo sufficient to mukc drustic action im
mediately necessary. The administration
will enntinun slow in nnv inquiries made
and bo made absolutely certuin ef facts
first. , .
Although officials refused to talk pub
licly of tho coming interview between
Gerard and the president, it was learn
ed on the best authority today that the
ambassador to Germany will be ac
quainted with every detail in connection
with tho present situation and that ho
be told, in effect, thut another Sussex
case would bring about the most se
rious situation thut has arised bctwcun
, -.I t.A l'i,;t.il Ktntjtfl.
Secretary Lansing saw Ambassador
Gerard shortly after 11 o'clock snd
later joined him lit lunch with the Oer
mun nmbassudor. Lansing refused to
reveal nnvthing of his talk with Gerard,
saying it'was confidential, though mdi
cuting ho had given Gerurd the eom
pleto view of tho administration's ideas
ti tul mirttnuPN
Gerard also talked with Third Assist
ant Secretary Phillips, who is handling
tho matter of getting more food stuffs
to Americans in Berlin.
TEE WEATHER :
Oregon: To
night and -Tues-day
rain; south
westerly winds,
strong near tho
coast.
Al
WORD
diftp cor
