"Best Cartoons''
t i m i jju
Reproduced Daily from T.-D.'s
Latest Exchanges
fJirfmtoni> tfitnes-jBispatctj
Society Doings
See Miss Witt's Newsy and Ac
curate Reports in The T.-D.
66th year
VOLUME) 00
M MRISIt mo
jkshp*- i* air
price, two cents.
Germans Fail to Advance,
Hrhile French Are Unable
to Budge Them.
VIOLENT BOMBARDMENTS
AND INFANTRY ATTACKS
Shelling of Russians at Ikskull,
on Eastern Battle Line, "
Continues.
JTAMA.V TiOSSES REPORTED
JWlIn Heury That Turks Are Pre
paring Tor Another AdvAiirr
In Ejgypt.
'h? French and ficrman force.", fight
ing to the northwest of Verdun. ap
P'Trntly, for the momr-nt at least. ar?
'''"llockfd, the Ocrmniif being unable
to advance further and French at
tempts to push the inva'IcrH from cap
tured positions being unavailing. liast
and nort lion s t of Vrrdun. where. ro
*?P" tlvp|v, violent infantry attacks and
bombardments have eharacterized tho
flrhting, only Intermittent rannonmllng
I- siow ?olng on.
Several German artillery attacks were
? launched against the Fronch positions
lull No. .104, northeast of Verdun.
rtir- j. reuch. hotviivcr, brought into play
their curtain ?>f tiro, arid t h>? Germans
"??re unable to debouch.
1 he sliellinc by th>- Germans of tho
n.iBfllans at the Ikskull bridgehead. on
the eastern bnttle line, which has been
In progress for many days, continues.
T; -m has been artillery activity on
vm:ous othtfi sectors of the Russian
t'1" lit no infantry maneuvers of
lance have been reported.
Ill Asians 11A V K I'lT UO\\\
M I IIHOIt V I I Hlv ATT.* I K
1 >'? /.u> iaus iti Armenia, however,
ha.e , lit down with heavy casualties a
?stubborn Turk attack and southeast
ward; in the region of Mush, driven the
Ottoman forccs from their defense in
a mountain chain. In addition, the
Kussians operating westward from the.
Persian front toward Itagdad have dis
lodged the Turks from fortified posi
tions and driven them farther west
, ward.
TSi*-* Gorizia bridgihe.id and the
region around San Martir.o. m tho
Austro-Itnlian theater. have he?-n
heavily bombarded. At San Martlno
\l*nna assorts that the Italians suf
fered heavy losses through the ex
plosion of an Austrian mine. Hombard
ments have featured the fighting oM the
"'her sector or. this front.
IMs patches received in Paris from
Saloniki are to the eft>< 1 that there
h,.x been vigorous artillery activity on
the Macedonian front. An Athens'dis
pat- h says the Germans and Bulgarians
In this tegion have heavily bombarded
the village of Mayada. their shells caus
i )?," much damage.
'It It l\S I'llEI'.tltlKti At; A I \
TO ADVAXCK ON K(jl l'T
Semiofficial advices from Merlin say
that the Turks are rapidly construct
ing 1 railroad through tiffe desert pre
paratory to another advance on Egypt,
f no batches of sick and wounded
- l{rm<sh soldiers from Kut-el-a main,
??ggrcfsattng i,u3? men, have reached
the IJritish headquarters on the Tigris.
A Hospital ship is proceeding to Kut
rl-Amara to take away the remainder
>'( th< sick and wounded.
?.i:ilMA\ ASSAI |.T KAII.s,
KltKXCK ST ATI-!)! 10 \ T < (.AIMS
[Special Cablo to The Times-Dispatch I
1 AIMS, May a.~Tho latest o,Ten.siV?
o. the crown prince against Verdun
has failed, according to the French of
fi-.al statement. Issued Into to-n,ghi
.? Th,s attack, one of the most (lev
pers-te and powerful yet made, began
, ..11 Mind ay simultaneously on both sides
of the Me 11 so, then shifted to and cen
tralized on the west. The great Ger
man aim was lo smash hill 30-1 Head
man Hill line.
The assault here culminated in tho
advance on Monday night and Tuesday
morning of three tremendous bodies of
German Infantry. One was against
the trenches northeast of hill 3ot- tho
second against the French positions on
hill 7, about a mile arid a half tv the
west, and the third against the woods
of Avocourt. a mile further to tho
southwest.
The attack on hill 301 was made at
3 o'clock this morning; the others fol
lowed in quick succession, and all
throe, it is oflicially reported, were
crushed by the French artillery lire and
to the Germans resulted in very serious
I hf ]? rench Ascribe their suc'coss* in
breaking down the German assaults to
the splendid work by machine guns and
automatic rifles in the front line
trenches. Tho German artillery bom
bardments are acknowledged to have
been overwhelming, but the French
held on to their underground shelters
and then decimated the approaching in
fantry before the attack was organized.
< MtTAIV OF PIRK STOPS
DKiiOCCH ItV (tKl)MA.\3
PATHS, May 9.?The official communi
cation to-night reads:
"In the Champagne our .artillery
shelled the trenches and batteries of
the Germans north of VJlIc-stir-Toiirbe
and the enemy communications In the
region of Somme Py.
"On the left bank of the Mouse the
bombardment was less intense. Tn the
course of the day an attack against a
trench west of hill 30< was stopped
short by our curtain of fire and was
not. able to debouch.
"On the right hank and in the
(Continued 011 Second"Page.)
Cymric Crew Sees
U-Boat Disapp ear
Survivors, Landed at Banlry,
Say Liner Is Torpedoed
Without Warning.
1JANTRY. May 'j tvla London, May
10).?One hundred and seven members
of the crew of tho Cymric arrived at
Bantry this evening. Several, suffering
! from broken limbs, were sent to the
| hospital.
The ofllcers of the Cymric declare
i that Ihe vessel ran torpedoed with
j out warning-. a submarine was seen.
I but it disappeared Immediately after
firing the torpedo.
: The Cymric, although badly damaged,
continued her way several hours, but
? finally sank.
Many of the new, on their arrival
here, were barefooted und only parti
ally clad. They were provided with
clothing and given all the care possi
ble.
WATCHING COAL INDUSTRY
Any further IncrenMf in Price of
A n t li rncit r W ill ( uuno Federal
f u\ ciitlKUtlon. 1
I WASHINGTON. May 3-The Federal
j Trnijr. Cointnls.'ilori announced to-day
jthat if there was any further Increaso
In the price of anthracite <oal the com
mission would tnke up with the De.
I partment of Justice the question of an
i ?,,ve*?tipatlon or the anthracite indus
J *r> ? rhe department had suggested tho
, inquiry if prices are raised following
? the wage advance just given t.. anthrn
| rite workers
I
OpcrnlorM Announce Advance
! .VISW YOltK. May 9-Oirculara an
nouncing advances in the wholesale
priors of coal have been circulated bv
the anthracite coal operator.".
: The increases, which, according to
o e circular, range, from 1cents H ton
j for erg to 50 cent:, a ton foe pea coal.
'c> upon the announcement by the
; operator:, that they would advance the
jPrne of coal to meet the additional
: cost o wage Increases and other ad
ij'istrnents recently allowed the. miners.
Ihnn ,r> express surprise, none of
' operators here would comment
( upon tho announcement of th<- Federal
i Trade Commission.
According to the circular, the tlrn
I advance goes into effect on June 3. and
' the final Increase becomes effective <<n
? September I.
FAY GETS EIGHT YEARS
lotlnrr 1 .leu ut (U|]_
victeil of t oiihplrncy With
Daeche and SrhtiU.
NKW YORK, May D.?Robert Fay.
; former lleutonant in the German armv
convicted In the Federal Court vester
'lay of conspiring to destroy munition
ships of the allies .through bomb con
trivances. whs sentenced to-day to
serv? eight years in the Federal Peni
1 tentiarv.
Walter Scholz. hi* broth-r-ln-law.
Daeche, ihso convicted, were un
fenced to servo four and two years
?respectively, Judge Howe holding that
I they did li0t originate the conspiracy
and deserved less severe punishment
than l ay. The three were also fined
j ? each.
A writ of error was filed In behalf
<>f Daeche, and the ball of $25.0on, on
which he has been at large, was con
tinued pending the writ's disposition.
Counsel for Fay and Scholz announced
they would also file writs of error with
in a few days and ask for bail for theit
clients
THIRTY-NINE GRADUATES
|He>. It uanell <XMI. U. II., of Illelintond,
Preside* nt Alumni Dinner ni
Princeton Commencement.
PRINCETON". N. J.. .May 0.?Thirty
nine students were graduated to-day at
the one hundred and fourth commence
i mcnt of Princeton Theological Semi
nary. Tn addition, twenty-one were
awarded the degree of bachelor of
divinity for special work, while six
fellowships nnd Jive prizes were an
nounced.
President J. Ross Stevenson, of the
seminary; Rev. Maltlaiul Alexander.
I J. IX. president of the board of direc
tors, and former moderator of the
Presbyterian General Assembly, nnd
Kev. John Da vies, of Philadelphia, were
the speakers at the graduation.
The alumni dinner and meeting fol
lowed the exercises, with Rev. Russell
Cecil. I?. D, of Richmond, presiding.
| CHAS. H. SABIN RESIGNS
Kiliiliiciiil ? irclcH ArntiKi-d When He
t?li'e* I p PreHldeue.v of <>uaruniy
'I'rnsi Company.
YOltK, May 3.?The confirma
tion to-day by Frank A. Vanderlip.
chairman of tho American International
Corporation, of the report that Charles
II. Sahin, president of tho Guaranty
Trust Company, had resigned from the
corporation created great Interest in
linancial circles. Mr. Vnnderllp said
that Mr. Subln had resigned because of
an "overlapping" of interest, which
was interpreted to refer to the fact
that tho Guaranty Trust Company Was
financed tho shipownfng firm of Gas
ton, Williams .ft Wigrnore. which re
cently announced plans for establish
ing world-wldo trade routes similar to
those being promoted by tho American
International Corporation.
HAIR TONIC KILLS THREE
Another llying nnd OlhrrM In Serioy*
Condition From Drinking Dena
tured Alcohol.
PIvAINVJEW, TEX., May 9.?As a
result of drinking denatured alcohol,
Paul J. Warren, Joe Dingier and Mug
Brock are dead, another man is dying
and three others arc seriously ill and
may die.
They, with several others, it is said
drank hair tonic which contained the
alcohol. Doctors beliove all wli die
or become blind.
Singing of Madame Culp Is Be
yond Criticism and Wins
Many Encores.
BIG PROGRAM FOR TO-NIGHT!
Honking of Automobiles and Con
duct of Two Violinists Mar
Pleasure of Evening.
To-Night's Program
? IT\ tl'IilTOIIIl')!, St 15 I*. >|.
"Artist Mglit": MIm? A unn Cn*e.
Hopranin Minn Sophie llrn.xlnu. von
trnltns Glowtnnl Mnrt inrlli, tenor.
'I he U cdnc.Hdnv Club rhuriiH, Metro
politan Oprrn IfnuHi* orehextrn.
'? "vfrfurr?l.rnarr, \n. ||I
Heethot rn
-. 'I'll irt or nth I'hiiIiu linker
CliuruN and .1II.hh A mm Ciixr.
3. \nric?chdn Arln, ?'.My llr.irt I*
u>nrr" Thomas
?,ll*l? Soplllc Itrjlsl.-iu.
?I. Arln from "l,n Ilohcinc". . 1'iieclnl
(ilovnnnl .HurtInrlll.
Mnrf Scene. "I.urln 1)1 l.mnmrr
,,,oor"
Hi** An mi Cn*r.
?5. Ounce or the Ilouhe. .. . I'onflilclll
7. Scene* I'ltt?rcH<|tic* Maaxenet
X. Arln. "IJupui* le Jour
I.oulne C'nrpentlcr
"Im An mi ('line.
tt. Arln from ?'!><? KIliieci"
... , . I.eoneo \ iillo
?'Invunnl Miirtinclll.
10. Keeftntive mill Aria, "Che
fnro?eti7.n ICurldlee." Oprcpo et
"luck
"?lis* Sophie Ilrnnlnu.
11. Mnrrh. ??I'omp nntl Circum
Mnntr"
| l.nst night demonstrated. !f demon
j ftraiion were needed, that the Metro
> politan Orchestra secured by the Wed
I nesday Club for this season is inade- |
jquate in numbers a: least for such
I ?ork as tlie grout festival calls for.
j The .Massenet numbers ot the orches
j tra from "Phcdre," and the Ballet Suite
I from "l.r- cid" were light and unsatis
fying. though for the most part tech
? nically corrr-ct. There is r.o denying
! the fact, however, that under the sym
pathetic direction of Mr. Hageman, his
orchestra afforded a satisfactory and
charming accompaniment for the sing
ers.
One very disconcerting fact was thei
; offensi-. e misconduct of the first violin-'
| 1st and ills neighbor. They were laugh- '
ing most of the time, certainly in the'
strictly orchestral work, and behaved!
I with such extreme lack of dignitv as!
really to Interfere with the enjoyment;
of the music. It was not only boorish.!
but was disrespectful to the audience, j
j It is 'iuite impossible to imagine that
Mr. Hageman saw and permitted such'
i behavior.
IIO.VK OF AI TOMOHII.ICS
DISTI HHS MU SICIANS i
I Another disturbing element was the ,
; apparently inevitable "honk, honk" and!
j throbbing of automobiles just off from
? the stage, which must have proved as
, trying to the musicians as it was dis- i
turbing to the audience. It must be'
( that our courteous, considerate and!
i generally watchful police force failed ?
j to realize how distinctly such noises'
; arc heard within the auditorium, and I
j how they disturb and annoy everybody, j
jit would not seem to be asking too'
? much of the authorities to abate thati
I nuisance also to-night, so that thr I
superb program which will be rendeted !
| will be. uninterrupted.
J The Wednesday Club choir added toi
; their laurels again last night. Monde's- i
sohn's "t ome. Let Us Sing" was the1
j work chosen for the tenor and chorus.!
It is rich and reverential, and was!
: sunk with an imposing volume and with!
unusual correctness ami feeling. It
?was much more elaborate and ditileult
i than the "Loreley," sung on Monday i
j night, and the choir met bravelv and'
? successfully the difficulties of the"sco?-e.
! Joseph Whlttemorc. a Richmond tenor,
i deserves great credit for the dignity
J and feeling with which he sang the
prominent .solo tenor part. llis voice j
j is sweet and pleasing, and, though it is!
(not powerful or highly trained, ho did j
? conscientious and satisfactory work.
Mr. ConeJand. the pianist, is virile,'
lias good technique, and plays with j
; sweetness as well as with power, and
[yet the result is not satisfying. If
would seem thai a pianist in out of
place in such a festival as this unless
playing in concerted music with the
orchestra.
MAI1A.MF. Ct l.I'VS SI\(;lX(;
IS IIICVO.M) IMtAISH
To criticize Mine. Culp is impossible,
and it is equally impossible even to
suggest in cold words the wonderful
charm of her singing. Magnetic be
yond expression, she appeals and thrills.
She is an artist to her linger tips.'and
yet earnest and sincere. It seems as
if nothing could he sweeter than every
note of her voice. It is rich and strong
when the Hong demands, quiet and
Impressive when it should be. Yet,
after all, it is not so much the voice
that entrances, hut the perfect beauty
and pathos of her singing, which
brought tears to the eyes of many of
! hcr ,10ar<-'r?. This was especially 'true
j of her interpretation of .Schubert's
"Serenade" and "Ave Maria." which
gave them a new beauty and charin.
For the rest, Wagner's "Traunie," the
I "Morgen" of Strauss and the two
Klarchcn songs of Beethoven were sung
as only she can sing them, and she.
graciously responded to double encores
after each number?"I've Been Uoam
! ing." "l.onpr. l.ong Ago," "The Star."
i by Rogers, and one other unfamiliar
! but exquisite song. Having heard her
I once' the fullest measure of gratitude
i (Continued on~Th]rd Page.)
Virginia's Senior Senator Will i
Not Support Glass for Na
tional Committee.
HIS ATTITUDE IS FIRM
Friends of State Leader Called
Upon to Make Danville Edi
tor Their Candidate.
to The Times-Dispatch.]
WASHINGTON*. May i? ?In any con- j
tcM which may develop, between Hep- I
resentativo Carter Glass iiri'l Itorer A. j
James, of Danville, for Virginia's Beat r
on the T'l'inocratir N'alional Committee, j
Senator Martin will k\vc his unquali- |
lif*'l him! active support to Mr. .James.
Tli" Times-Dispatch correspondent
\vns to-day authorized to make this
unequivocal statement, because of re
ports printed throughout the State to
tho effect that the Senator was in a
measure pledged to the support of Mr.
Glass. and might find it necessary to
refuse his support t<> Mr Jaincs.
hi: uuj. si"i'poht jamics
TO 1CND or FIGHT
Moreover, the Senator's friends, if
the occasion arises, will he fully art*
vi"f><l of his position, and will be
urged to make Mr. Jainen their candi
date when the. State convention meets
at. Roanoke on June ?.
Whether or not this foreshadows a
hitter fight between Senator Martin's
friends and those of Mr. Class depends.
It. is pointed out, wholly upon the
course the Congressman takes. If the
latter decides to stay in the tight and
to make an aggressive campaign for
the committee berth, then a test of
strength will result. This will be true I
for the reason that Mr. .lames has let
it lie understood that he will not re- j
tire, whatever the circumstances. As ]
long as the Danville editor is in the |
race, he will have the hacking: of Sena- '
tor Martin.
t'M)i:n NO OBMtiATIO.V
TO SI IM'OKT (?I, A S9
Senator Martin's friends to-day in- j
sistcd that he never had pledged his i
unconditional support to Mr. Glass. ?
They say that in a recent conversation
between the Senator and the ltepresen- j
tative, tlie former stated frankly that ?
he would offer no objection to Mr. t
Class's election to the committee if 1
there were no contest. Mr. Class, it is !
further stated, told Senator Martin at
the time that he, Glass, did not want
the. place if he had to fight for it. j
Since that conversation Mr. James has
announced his candidacy, thereby creat
ine a contest, and that circumstance, it
is added, absolves Senator Martin from
any obligation to support the Con
gressman.
In this connection, it is learned that !
Mr. (ilass will be given the vote of ?
Martin's friends in the State convention j
for a seat in the national convention '
as one of the four delegates at large
from Virginia, if lie will withdraw from f
the national committee figlu.
Mr. Jaincs was recently in Washing
ton for a conference with Senator Mar
tin. It can be stated, however, that
the Senator gave the Danville editor
110 assurance of support prior to the
latter's announcement as a candidate
for the committeeship.
JAM ICS LHCXIICS THAT UK
WIl.l. ItfCTIItlC FIIOM HACK |
Rohrer A. James, of Danville, prom- |
inent in the public eye as candidate l
for the Democratic National Committee i
to succeed Lieutenant-Governor Lily-j
son, visited the Capitol yesterday, and ]
discussed the political situation with
friends. He called at the executive
1 ofiic.es, but Governor Stuart had left
j a. short while before on the oyster
[ inspection voyage, which will keep him
| from his office the rest of the week.
Mr. James expressed his satisfaction I
with the outlook. There was no foun
dation, he said, for the rumor that
there was a probability of his with- j
drawing from the race for the national
committee, and leaving a. clear field
j to Representative Carter Class. He
had just come from Washington, where
ho had been in consultation with Vir
ginia members of Congress.
With respect to the report that some
of the Virginia members of Congress
have found his candidacy embarrass
ing, Mr. James observed that his candi
dacy was not only not embarrassing to
his friends in Congress, but that they j
desired to see him elected.
I.OOK M'OV SITUATION
AS MOST IJNFOnTI NATIC 1
In political circles, the contest be
! tween Mr. James and Mr. Glass con
I tinned yesterday to be the absorbing
topic. Most of the local political |
leaders who commented on tin1 situa
tion were inclined to look upon the
whole development as deplorable.
Neither the organization nor antior
gnnization factions of the party, it was ?
pointed out, had much to gain from a. \
victory of either of tho two candidates. I
Considerable mystery appears to;
shroud the origin of the James boom, j
Until the meeting of the State Demo- ?
cratlc Committee in Rlchtnor.d lust '
March, it had been generally assumed |
that the State Democracy would unite .
in selecting Representative Glass to .
i succeed Lieutenant-Governor Ellyson.
Xo one was actively pursuing the honor, j
and the election of Mr. Glass waa looked
upon with favor by both wings of the i
party as a fitting recognition of his
distinguished services, and as designed
to bring the factions closer together. !
MYSTKUY AS TO I'XIIICIIA LIMCII
A I'l'IOA IIA .\CIC OK JAM ICS I
' The mystery of Mr. James's almost i
unheralded appearance as a rival can- j
dldate deepened when it was learned j
that the first overtures to Mr. Glass, i
with the view of bringing him out as >
a candidate for the national commit-j
tee. were made by recognized leaders
of the organization. Logically, these
men would be enrolled as sup
porters of Mr. James, since the latter
lias for years been an organization
standard-bearer in the Fifth District.
The fact that organization lead
(Con11 nued oil Third Page.)
MILITIA CALLED OUT
TO PROTECT BORDER
"I'ncle .foe" Cannon shaking hands with Shaker Chump Clark at the
reception in hifc honor in Washington. "Uncle Joe" Cannon has just passed
tbe four-score mark, and official Washington, led by Speaker Clark, cele
brated the event by giving a reception in his honor.'
Allay Fear of Break
Over Troop Removal
From Soil of Mexico
Conferees at El Paso End
Three-Hour Session and
Will Meet Again
To-Day.
EL. PASO. TKX .. May 9.?Fear of a
break between the United States and
Mexico over disposition of American
troops in -Mexico was temporarily al
layed to-night when, after three hours*
conference, the Mexican and American
conferees agreed to hold another con
ference, probably to-morrow.
To-night's conference, tho tiftli held,
began shortly after f? o'clock, with
Generals Scott and Funston and Gen
eral Obregon and Juan Amador, Mexi
can Subsecretary of Foreign Affairs,
taking' part.
It is understood that General Obro
gon again brought up tho subject of a.
definite date for- the American troop
withdrawal from Mexico. Tic again
was informed, it was said, that tho
American government is firm in its
refusal to snake this concession.
It was suggested to him that, in view
of the Rig licml raid, under the nose of
Carranza troops, the United State:!
could scarcely consider the do. facto
government as fully capable yet of
coping with the bandits.
MOHK TIMH IS ASK 101)
TO t'O.VSI I.T (AltltA.V/.A
lii the face of this statement. Gen
eral Obregron is understood to liavo
asked f<?t- more time to consult with
General Carrnnzn.
General Funston had planned to
leave here to-night for San Antonio,
where, itt his headquarters in Fort Sam
Houston, he was to take charge of tho
new troop dispositions that will come
with the dispatch of $.000 militia and
regular army men to the border. After
Ihc conference, however, it was an
nounced he had postponed his depar
ture.
This circumstance added to the op
timism that prevailed following the
announcement that negotiations would
com in tie.
All day there was a hint of war in
the atmosphere of 151 Paso. Prior to
the conference the word went out that
only one thing could prevent a break
between the United States and Mexico
complete reversal by General Obregon
of the altitude he toolt at yesterday's
meeting with Generals Scott and Fun
ston. when he declined to sign Hie ten
tative agreement for American and
Mexican troop co-operation unless it
was modified to set a date for Ameri
can withdrawal from Mexico.
MANV IIKMIOVK. OlilM'.GOV
MAY UI'IT COXFISHKXCK
There were few optimists to point
out that in the end the Mexican War
Minister must concede the point of the
United States.
A great majority concluded that
there he. was more likely to withdraw
from the negotiations.
Activities of the military men here
added In the apprehensions. It was
learned that messages had been sent
to General Pershing at the front warn
ing him to prepare for any contin
gency. All along the border word had
gone out to Ihc scattered detachments
of the American army patrol to be on
guard.
Ifope was still entertained, it was
said, that the situation could be ad
justed.
General Obregon went into the con
ference this evening announcing that
he had a new proposal to make to tho
American representatives, lie intend
ed to ask, he said, that a common bor
der patrol should be stretched along
the border, American troops guarding
the American side and Mexican troops
patrolling the Mexican side
On his return to his private car in
Juarez afler the conference General
Obrcgon made the following statement
to the Associated Press:
"On the instructions of the first chief
I have proposed a plan for the patrol
of the frontier of both countries. Each
| country, under this arrangement, would
j patrol its own side and co-operate
I with the other in running down and
i breaking up the outlaw bands who have
? committed n number of the depreda
jtions lately. We are proceeding
! amicably in the conference. T should
! like to say for the benefit of the yellow
press that i delivered no ultimatums
!to-nlglit."
AltitlVAI. OP TROOPS
CAL'SKS SO>110 EXCITEMENT
General .Scott is understood to hav?
] said he would be glad to present tho
| proposal to the Washington govern
; tncnt.
L.ate this afternoon excitement was
caused when General George Hell. Jr.,
: sent a detachment of troops into the
o.iiy, where he placed them as a "pre
j caution" against, i ny trouble there
might arise among the large Mexican
{ population.
A battalion of the Twentieth Infan
, try. numbering about 350 men, was
I moved from Fort Hiiss late this after
noon and stationed near the stock
yards dominating tiie Mexican section
of IC1 I'aso. The stockyards are about
a mile from the river and Juarez The
battalion carried machine-gun equip
ment.
; Two companies of the Twentieth
| were stationed at the courthouse and
j two at the union station. All nr#
i under the command of Colonel llns
'brouck.
Colonel Hashrouck's troop dispositions
were taken, he said, for merely precau
tionary measures. In view of the tensu
situation, tt whs deemed best to leave
no step untaken that might avert trou
ble at this end of the International
Bridge. The troops moved into the city
from Fort Bliss consisted of five com
panies of the Twentieth. Three foni
panies were stationed at the stockyards,
ami the machine-gun company was
i placed at the courthouse, whore Colo
nel llasbrouck established his head
quarters. The Fifth was placed at tho
union station, a short distance across
[the river from Junre/..
i !?' 1 VSTON ASK El) KOK
I.AII01011 IIK-ENI--OIU Im 10XTS
i is known that General Funston
j asked the War l'epartment for a much
i larger number of troops than was al
lowed him, and some disappointment
; was expressed at the temporary hend
i quarters of the Southern l'epartment
i here to-day when w ord came that no
? more than S.rtOn additional troops would
' \?j sent m the international boundary.
| However, work went abend rapidly for
i the disposition of what re-enforcements
were at hand. It is believed that ti,o
'regular army re-?*nforcomcnts will ba
divided between 101 I'aso and San
i Antonio
j All of the additional troops are ox
i (Continued on Second PagoTj"
PRESIDENT 10 END
FURTHER RAIDING
ON MEXICAN LINE
Additional Force of 8,000
Men Brings Funston's
Army to 50,000.
USE ENTIRE STRENGTH
OF GUARD IF NEEDED
Ordnance and Quartermaster
Stores at Convenient Points
for Quick Distribution.
WILSON HAS AMPLE POWER
Law Permits TJse of Citizen-Soldiers
Either Within or Without
U, S. Territory.
American Troops Ready
for General Uprising
SAX ANTONIO, TBXAS. May ft
Aororillnj; to rrportn current here
to-night. American oflli'trs nlon^ tlie
border ore prrparcil to Kimnl nKslrmt
a jtrnernl Mrxli-an uprising-. Met for
(o-morrow, .liny 10. Numerous* prom
Incut Mrilcmin arc Involved lit (he
nllcjrcd ulirlnhis, according (o thewe
reports, whirl* hImo declare A m r r -
Irnn civil i\bi! military oldrlils hnve
.been InvcntlKntliig them for nomr
time. American tronpn nlonc tbe
border, it in Mid, arc xufflclrntlr
iitrong to handle any dlnturbnnccn.
WASHINGTON, May 9.?With 8.000
additional troops under orders for the
Mexican border. Including 4.000 na
tional guardsmen from Arizona, New
Mexico and Texas, administration of
ficials felt to-night that necessary
(steps had been taken to prevent further
raiding of American border towns by
bandits. Meanwhile, tho final outcome
of tho conference at El Paso botwecn
Major-General Scott and General Obre
gon, tho Carranza War Minister, was
awaited with considerable anxiety.
President Wilson and his Cabinet
discussed the Mexican situation to-day,
but the President had authorized the
new troops orders before his advisers
gathered. General Funston suggested
early in tho day that the National
Guard front the three States named be
called out. in addition to the sending
of all the remaining regular Infantry
to Join his command. His suggestion
was promptly approved and orders dis
patched.
FAILURE TO II AT I FY
AGREEMENT IS PUZZLING
Some membors of the Cabinet were
frankly pessimistic after the meeting
over the delay of General Obregon in
ratifying the agreement he negotiated
with General Scott covering co-opera
tive border operations. Reports front
Mexico City indicated that the agree
ment had been approved by General
Carranza. and officials here were at 4
loss to understand Obrogon's action.
Tho majority of the President's ad*
visera believed tho agreement finally
would be ratified, and that tho border
situation would clear Itself quickly
thereafter. It was clearly intimated in
all quarters, however, that there would
be no change in tho policy of the
Washington government; that tho
troops would stay in Mexico until the
border was safe from inoursions; that
I raiders would be pursued across the
; lino every time they became active, and
{ that tho whole strength of the National
i Guard would be used, if necessary, t?
j protect the border.
I U1'AKT KitMASTEII STOKES
HELD IN READINESS
J Secretary Oaker said the question of
j calling guardsmen from other States
I into the service was not under Immedi
ate consideration. it was learned,
j however, that General Funston already
had been supplied with all papers,
! forms ami instructions necessary to
j muster Into service the guardsmen of
all Slates near the border, and that
j ordnance and quartermaster stores to
i outfit all such troops on a full war
! basis are held at convenient points for
i quick distribution.
! Mr. linker refused to discuss reports
i that General Funston has asked that
j he be given a total of 15.000 to main
| tain the border guard. It is possible
j that the border commander mentioned
? that figure as the number of men ho
, thought necessary to insure protection
; of the border towns and ranches by
| providing an adequate guard for each.
| The secretary said General Pershinc's
I force in Mexico was able to take care
i of itself In any emergency.
JCAN t'MK STATE TROOPS
FOR FOREIGN SERVICE
j Including the troops orderod out to.
| day, there will be nearly 45.000 sol
! diets, perhaps 50,000, along the border
I or in Mexico. The War Department has
I declined to publish actual iirmv figures.
| but, with the entire mobile army,
? except live troops of cavalry under
j General Funston's command, in addi*
i tlon to the 4,000 or more Ruaidsmon
I and the several thousa- recruits who
are being forwarded to the regular
regiments as fast us they are mustered
In. the United States has a considera
ble army strung out alonflr the 1,8-)#
miles of the International Una.
Calling out tho National Guard fit
the first time under the present militia
