THE WEATHER FORECAST.
Fair and warmer to-day; to-morrow, un
settled; probably showers.
Highest temperature yesterday, 6;; lowest, 54.
Detailed weather, mall and marine reports on pa.c ' J,
IT SHINES FOrV. ALL
VOL. LXXXIII. NO. 253.
NEW YORK, WEDNESDAY, MAY 10, 1916. VopvrlBUt,lOl,bV the Sun Printing and Publishing Association.
PRICE TWO CENTS.
U.S. INQUIRY ;
1FC0AL PRICES
ARE ADVANCED!
t
t
At I oiiiey-Oiipru I (i ivyor.v
Sihppcts ii 'Squeeze'' ly j
tlu Compiiuics. :
WILSON APPKOVKS
TIIK FKIIKKAI, PLAN'!
xsiiim.io.s, ALl) 9 The IYdcr.il
Tra Ic Commission will Investigate any
r. re.uei In llio price of coul In the near .
fjture which It may haxe reason to be- I
Here are linger than recently granted I
nise Increase) In the Industry nccessl-'
Ul.
I" ie ..'itim-idoii decision wan made
He l ir-n,t of eon fpoiiilflicc with At
tprrjr. ieiii'f.il Gifgnr), who vxtote a
I.'i.t sinling out lii'taiiccs. lii;
v.irli lie charges (the coal companies!
f izfl upon occasion of wage Increases '
Jusi.th ntion fur comparatively larger)
Increases in the price of coal.
It bciatue l.nown to-night that At- '
tomo-UPiier.il Oicgory .it-tcil xxith the
Mm 'ion nnd approval of President Wit-1
ten In sending his recommendation to I
the Trade Commission. It Is iiudcmtooj I
bat the hlca was discussed at a eon-ftrtii-e
between the President and Mr.'
Jicgory last week and that the President .
I raised .t luvhly.
litre Is the Trade Commission's letter j
In He Attorney-General . ' j
'Won 7 Aiuh.h 11". (hrrimy, Attornry.
Htniinl. l
'Sir The comm!e.Mou ha given caie
fu i ins.derntlnii to cmr letter of May.
6 I'e tj.niiu to the iinlhnieite coal in-j
1.iTV.
I. ' .e s.lu.Uion shouKJ develop an ou
fticsest tie commission will he Kind to'
mite thi matter up with you further with 1
a i.d to making such Investigation is!
tr,' piilih Interest may require
"It;- direction of Hie commission.
"Veiy respectfully, !
"I. 1 IIrackkn. Secretary."
Mr, l.rrmir)'' l.rller. 1
H .e . the Attorney-General's letter: j
' Thi: FlM.nvi. Tiuni Commission, j
"H M il ini.T'jS'. I". I.., May fi. 1916.
(.'ntri,( n , t lias been Muted In the
piddle preys, w.ih appaient authority.
Hut, lni.mr .isiteil to an advance In
ie, the railroad , oiupaliles will now
ise that as an ex. u-e Tor materially
r.. n.islne the pi Ices of anthracite coil
to ! "timers
It ..is lieen brought out in the va
'. tl- legal proceeding against the an
'i.i. iV r.idio.id that on similar oc-
' s hi th- iast when wag.s lime
advanced the r.illio.id coal coin-
' m the pretext of Increasing
prlc j (or the purpose of meeting the
"eased cost of production resulting
'fjiu f lit higher wattes, have maile much
eie.it. imiiaets than were nece?'ary
t r "i.tt pin I'ose.
e January 1, 1D0", tlirte have
tifeii thire ceneral aiUancc In the
p- ..f ni ne worUers In the anthracite
t;ion. excliflve of the piesent .id-
I . obi-r, IMmi, wages were ad
' rl .ippioxuuatoly 10 per cent.. In
il tar immediate) preceding
l1 ' id' .in. .. (July 1, ISHS.June 30,
tfoni ti. ,.,1t of production of the
P ii.,. Iphu mid Heading Coal nnd Iron
' '.Mr whose mines ;n,. among the
' x ..iive to operate, was 11,67 a
i "i 1 the ilsc.il )ear Immediately
' iliil) I, I'jnti-June "0, 1S01)
' of pioductloii was I1.R2A a
ii increase of ? 3 a ton. which
i nidi's not only the Increase due to
'" .nharu" in wages but the Increase
ue to all other factors, tin the other
I'd th. v,. company (the others fol-
Veii ,,),,) Increased prices by J.232
i I'jii on all tU,.,, making the excess
' ti, -e ii. tease oxer cot Increase
' a ton.
'' 'xeu r 1. Ipfc, there was
- ''ner Rouci.il advance In wages of
'l'"' '-'''I 11 per cent In the
" ' w.i. ' "mediately preceding this
al'.ilir Unix 1. lliOI.Jiiin. SO, 19112)
' "t of production of tlie I'hlla
' e n 1 a d Heading Coal mid Don
1 ' I i a Ion, In the tlse.il
5r r ' ninidi.iti I) following (July 1,
''- ' " JM. KHini , mst of .roduc
J"' If'f a ton an Increase of
' - .i ' m. which Includes not onlv
' r, ,.. ,ur. p. t,, adxance 111
, ,!' In. lease dm. , ;, other
' Hie other hand (lie same
"Tir.i,. ,tl(, others following) In
'"ised nn.es by ?.:g ton on all
"if. miking the excess of price over
-ci m ,.. a-3 a ton.
naslt fop Cniiiiiiirltiiu.
df.uhtedlv the pilcet Immediately
" ' "S the wage met ease In 1002 were
iKh, due to tlm scarcity of
'J' u .,i,sei,.jeii. f tlt. long strike,
" w ! " f.lirtr theicfoie to take the
i,.."' i'rl ll""K I" the ncal year ended
June 3n, no l, as t. hahi fot. oom.
Mrin. '',,a wou, h)low n) eX.Pf,s of
a i,', '' ICi""'' ";ir COHt Increase of $ 245
' I'U another adxance in wages
' ! ", a'li'onitliig to about r. per
net Again prices were Increiiwd
r i,. ,. r),.x, (lf .ctc the lesultlug
'"-e , ti. ji.vt or ,rodiH'tloii. On
" " ,.s.,n ,. House of Itfpresenta
' die i.. ii,,, bureau of libor to
, , suK.mon i no nureau
" ii.n Hpi whereas the advanced wages
. 11 ii" ' "t of ntoi Miction on v
i i.
: ' et weie Inci eased 1,2." a
" c 'I'" dn-paiily bitweeii price
'id '-it ini nase il ii ton.
" f '" 'l ''onsiimptlon for somn
'" ' I"' n In the neighborhood
" ion., this excess of price
re 1 1 , v ,
' inciease following lb
w K iii 1M2 meant a surtax
jil'
"MSUIlli'l;. l) about ? 12,000,000
on ii .
' Hi--- fiets I tike the
' '-ae lou that if tb,. adxance
I" ' itienl iiimii shall be fol
,l Hi. past bx an increase In
'(.il
' '' "i '"'I in consuineis, the Ked
J'.'i 1 1 ni. I'onini'ssion, under the an
no. ' ,r ,,,iioii ii of t, t.t creating
,', , 1 searching Investigation
ti. 'iperallntit and accounts of tho
"' luodiieiug couipanles for yie pur
"" I ,i. . i taming all the facts upon
; 'tii'i-'iisn la price may he
.ud.ng the ) it Ion between
" e in the cost of production
1 r ' H.p an e of wages and the Increase
' , r mn'ii by tb,. increase In
Ulce
U?''r'V,N I'.'Vr.K ll.V LINK NI-.IKTH
"!t!fi "' 1 " ,ro'n Alb,n'
U BOA T AND LU SIT AN I A
CASES END-GERMAN VIEW
Wilson's Last Note Believed in Embassy Circles to Close
Entire Controversy Lansing Concerned
About the Cymric.
WAHiiiNiiros, May 9 -Will (iermany
atcipt I'refldeni Wilton' note of yci
letduy a the llnal word in submarine
tontrovery ?
Will the new orders to submarine com
InandeiM remote the menace to Aiuerl
urn lles?
Thcte weie the iitiestioti" uppermost in
the minds of olllclals here to-day. I'jion
the answer depends the maintenance of
filendly relation between tlic fulled
Slates ami Uermnny
The I'tesldetifs no!,, asiiiiie that
liennany lint unconditionally abandonej
her Illegal method of submarine war
fair, and th.j Interest of diplomats Is
tiow centred on whether or not tier
many will accept this Interpretation or
make another iepl Silence In diplo
macy moan e'ii and Stat,. Ik pail
ireii; olllclals do not cpict Heilin to
nnswei the llii.il until which was sent
to Ambassador (.erard jestetday.
It l understood alo that ofllclalt
c!o-e to the t.eriuan Kmbassy do not e
iiect tirtmnny to reply. So far as the
Herman Kmbassy Is concettnd tile con
trol ers as to methods of submarine
Wat fate Is now n closed book.
It Is said that Uerllti has been ad
vised that yesterday's not It not cal
culated to iitTect the situation one way
oi another, but Is piolubly Intended o
p!aco the President on record before the
American people.
These advices natuiall were sent by
Herman sources and with them went the
plain Intimation that further diplomatic
communications on the subject would
only keep the tire smouidt rltiK.
The position which (Jermany now l
takes Is described as follows .
The President's lait note intended
for "home consumption' noes not niter
the situation lierman s new order
to submarine commanders dlrertltiK
them to operate aecordiiu; to the rcii
eral principles of visit and search as
lecoffiilzed by International law Is
six en In ko1 faith and is not condi
tion. il upon u thins. The Impel Ul
tlovernnieiit now rcuards the submi
tine coiitriuer'.y closed.
The American State lepartment in
answer to the Herman CMinniiinlciitlon
of Keliruary H, 1!1.1, said the l.usl
tnnl.i settlement, proposed h Cer
many, would be agreed to by the
WOMAN A HERMIT !
IN BROADWAY HOTEL
Aired Woman Itecluse IhttlnM
Stepped Outside Walliek's
in Five Years.
JEWELS HIDDEN IN PIANO '
That a woman In good health could
llxe in Walliek's Hotel, Forty-third
street and llroadway, and not leave the
hotel for llxe years, nor cultivate the
friendship of any one In the hotel nor
receive visits from her lelallxes, was
disclosed yesterday when the transfei
tax appraisal of the estate of Miss Caro
line Marshall, who died at the hotel on
March 2, 1915, xvas tiled.
The report shows that Miss Marshall
left a total estate of $2SS,u72. of which
1116,52" was In real estate and 42,OS
In bank deposits. Her personal effects
xvere valued at tft,S4 4. and the remainder
of the estate xxas In securities. Under
a will made In 1S93 he gnxe lin.noo to
the New York Homo'op.ithlc Medical Col
lege and Hospital, and divided the resld
uary estate between her sister, Mrs.
Mary 1. Van Ness of 17 Kan Sexenty
first street, aim her brother, IMmund C.
Marshall. She left siiecltlc bequests to
four nieces, a nephew and two gland
nephews. The facts concerning Miss Marshall's
habits of life and an extended search for
her money, securities and Jewelry, and
also for a later will it xvas liellexed she
had made, xxere set forth In an atlldavit
by Joseph II, A. Syniouds of the law
firm of Press A Symonds, in describing
the services performed by his firm, which
he believed xveie wortli $7,500. A claim
for 12,300' for legal services was made
by the firm of Dexter, tisbotn & Flem
ing, which was repiesented during the
searcli for the Hged recluse's property
Mr. Symonds said his firm was re
tallied by Mrs, Van Ness several days
after her sitter's death and a search
was at once, made for her private papers
at the Second National Hank, xvhere she
had her account. With the aid of an
order from the Surrogate the searchers
found an envelope containing the will
made In ISM and $.'.0,000 In West Show
bonds, ,
Tim search was continued at Walllck
Hotel, where Mist Marshall had a parlor,
bedroom and bath. Mr. Symonds said
the decedent had not left the hotel for
five years, and that her rooms wejc In
such condition that n thorough search
seemed Impossible, Old ncWHpapeis,
clothing, bundles and packages littered
llio rllnce, he said, The bedroom con
tained, In addition to the bed, dtester
and table, two large trunks and one
small one and a wardrobe filled with
clothing, with jiaekages on top of the
wardrobe,
"The parlor was In a slate of In
describable confusion," said Mr. Sy
ii.oi, dh. "It rur.talnctl the irmnl jirtnr
suite, a grand piano, table, dresser, large
wardrobe, a number of ttunks, books,
quantities of magazines and numcrouii
packages and paper boxes. Kvery avail
able space except a small passaaeway
through the rooms waH occupied with
articles of personal property represent
ing the accumulation of years, In mich
manner us to make the condition fairly
chaotic. The dlfhoulty of the searchers,
was Increased thtuugh the lack of room
and tho far) that every drawer and trunk
was completely filled and tho iilano top,
table top iuid the dresser top were used
an receptacle for articles of various
kinds and descriptions."
The searcbem did not find another
will, hut iinearthefl a number of articles
of Jewelry, oinc certificates of New
York Central Mock and conildt table
currency.
L'nlted Slates as soon as the United
Stales was satisfied with (lertnaiiy's
plcdses for the. future regarding sub
marine warfare.
Secretary Uniting has now said that
I ho tioxernmeilt Is satisfied with Ger
many's) plcdses for the fnlure. There
foie ll may be expected that publica
tion of the communication of Febru
ary 1'! will soon lie authorized by the
State department and the. Lusltnnla
cite closed.
tlermatiy has settled the Arabic case
and has announced a teadlness to set
tle the case of the Sussex. This prac
tically lemoxet all cause for further
conltoversy between the two liovern
ments oxer the submarine Issue.
This outline of the German position
It made, however, without xvalting to
ascertain the possible effect on the Ger
man people of the President's note nnd
Secretary Lansing's statement of jes
teidjy. The Secret.uj's statement de
rl.irittg that the I'liltul Slates It bound
In peace treaties In lis deal. tuts with
Uie.it Itritalti . lecarded III (ieriii.in
miles !i likely to cause uiu.'li adxtrse
comment In llerlm. It Is loolied upon
as an admission that nothing will be
done during the war to force respect
of International hw with legard to the
blockade.
Th.. German lew i Hint Secretary
Uniting should make It mandatory for
Great llrltaln to cease attacks on Amerl
cm commerce while the matter Is un
der discussion. There can be no arbi
tration about a perpetual and contin
uing series of offences, German officials
bellcle. In other words, the Itryan
treaty with Great llrltaln Is attacked
by Germiny on the ground that It leads
to abstiidlty unless the offences com
plained of ceae during the period set
iide for adjustment of the dispute.
Joi'e.tf.ri' I.:inwlni- l tiow more rnn
ctrni--' about the way German)' change'
of submarine methods It to be ertected
than the possibility of a Germ.in reply.
The sinking of the Cymric by a German
submarine and reports to-day by Contlll
tiener.il JtUlnner In London of three more
submarine attacks or merchantmen have
attracted the attention of the State De
partment There Is no proof In any of
thcte cases that Germany lirut violated
her pledge, but the cases tire nevcrtlu
lrt worrying ottlelals,
Secretary Lansing I particularly con
cerned about the attack on the While i
Mar steamer Oniric The question'
whether this ship was an auxiliary,
cruiser or n merchantman It now being
investigated. The Hrltlsh Admiralty .
t'DHtliiu'ff on Fourth I'ayc
SAYS TEUTONS CAN'T
FIGHT THE YEAR OUT
liinili I'upor Aert That
Even Soldiers Nation
Have Hccn Cut.
FOOD SIIONTAOE OHAVE
Slrtil i Mr 'Mifi. ro Tar "u
Lonihis-, May !t. The Danish news-'
paper Itilicxltltn Hitrnilr claims to haxe'
! discovered by a month's In.estlgutlon
that the belief prevails In Germany that j
,11 Is Impossible to continue the war to
the end of 1!I6. 1
Many In G.rmany beliexe that It can-i
i r.nt lu m.t I tit ., I in.il tlirrtn?li Ilia ttimr,wt
(the paper asserts, and continues,
"The rations of the Germ.in soldiers
I were cut six weeks ago. Meat Is becom
'j Ing rare, bread Is limited to twelve
I ounces dally and food parcels from the
j Idlers' homes are now forbidden lest
the civilians themselves suffer.
, "Desertions arc numerous, and they
Include ofllcers. Socialism Is, spreading
amazingly among the tioops. Sl.ick
I nes of discipline Is evident, resulting
, from the extremely harsh treatment The
j shortage of horses necessitated the re-1
duclng of gun teams.
"Ammunition and arms, however, con-j
Untie to be produced In Incredible quan-;
titles."
I Shops and dwellings of hutchei in ,
i Uerlin were searched for hidden stocks,
of meat to-day, according to a despatch
from Copenhagen, which adds tliat the!
, search revealed the fact that the lletlln!
iineat supply can last only for a few j
' days, J
j line despatch ftom Geneva says lleiliu'
I shops were pillaged and provisions of i
tne value oi ifio.oim ijihi.uuui were'
seized.
All the butcher shops of llcilln, In
cluding the great market of Wertheitns,
haxe been closed, the despatch says,
l While numerous German papers, copies
of which have Just reached bete, are
harping upon the food troubles, the
Kotlnlsche 'rxtung of May 7 asserts
that ''Germany It nhle to continue the
xvnr Indefinitely, notwithstanding the In-
i convenience
Incidentally, the paper announces the
discovery of a process of making a cer
tain quality of steel for munitions, for
which wolfram, Imported at great cost,
has been necessary. The paper says:
"No means at the disposal of our
enemies can prevent the unexampled
elasticity of German organization ftom
being applied to every demand the war
1 Imposes.
"A new proof of this Is. presented In
the fact that two Ithetilsh-WeMphallan
firms have succeeded In producing steel
of the highest elliclency for the ao-called
'rapid process work' without xvolfram.
What this means for the munitions In
dustry will be terognlzed abroad.
"There Is n" conceivable profligacy of
' shells which German industry is not
capable of meeting with a still greater
output. America can neither with her
money nor with her supplies tear open
1 the doors, of il Gernmn fortress,
"Our human, mechanical, economic nnd
financial resource for attack can stand
I even a stronger drain, because as tweu-
1 ty-one months have proved they are con-
I stantly produced nficsh, We have newly
oiganlzed our capacity for confronting
1 lb., emergencies and are adanttin our-
selxes to the clicumstniiccs. All tills
will last until our foes have adapted their
attitude to the fart that their game la
lost and will remain lost,"
TURKS TO TALK OF PEACE.
Ilrpnrt Grand Council In Conatan-
tlnople Cnlleil for Thnt Knd,
Ldnpon, May 9. A teport from Con
stantinople sii)N that the Grand Council
ban been called to tho HulUn'l paUc to
consider peace.
FOUR ATTACKS UPON
VERDUN LINES FAIL
(ionnnn Assaults at Hill .101.
Ropiilspd, Is Assertion of
French.
TEt'TOXS TELL OK (JAIN
Severn I Trenches South of
Termiten Hill Taken
by Storm.
The lighting for the line based on
Hill 304. the dominating height on the
W(st bank of tlic Mouse, In the Verdun
region, continues with extreme vio
lence. Three Oprman attacks were made on
this .sector early yesterday mornlnc
and .mother attack xxms nude yester
day afieinnoii, All these, .uiordmg 10
Hie I'rciuii Wiit otlW, weie tonied
There Is an apparent contradiction
between the Trench and German re
ports of Monday's lighting. The
lVench War Office announced Monday
night that n German attack ugalnst
Mill 287 had leen checked by the
French fire. With regard, apparently,
to the same engagement, the German
official statement Issued to-day say.t
that the Germans took several trenches
by storm south of Termiten hill.
r"C"i' f.thi, lift patch m Tar Si".
Pxrtis, May 9 Three German attacks
of great violence and In xxhleh huge
forces were used xvere made on Hill 30t.
on the west bank of the Metise. nnd Its
Immediate vicinity ear!) this morning
The three attacks covered a ftont
from a point northeast of Hill 301 to
Hill 27, to the west. The latter eleva
tion, against which the German opened
an offensive xenrd.i afternoon with
out sUcceiN... xx at the goal of one of the
atiults of thlt morning. A second at
tack was directed against Hill r.oi from
the northeast and the third wa an at
tempt to bieak through the Fundi line
In a piece of woods between th two
hill.
All the attacks were broken down b
the Fieneh Are, nnd accotdlng to the
official communique lued to-night they
cost the Germans heavy losses.
German Altacl. Full.
Later In the day a fourth attack w.i
attempted west of Hill f.01 anil appar
ently on much the same front, 'n the
wood between the hills, On this fourth
attempt the Germans were stopped by
th" French artillery befo'e the) had
been aide to leave their position
Tho official communique Issued by the
French War Office to-night follows
In Champagne our artlller) tired
on the German trenches and batteries
north of VIllc-sur-Tourbe and on
enemy lines of communlcat on in the
region of Somme-Py.
On the left bank o.' the Meue the
bombardment was less splilted during
the day. An attempted enemy attack
duected agalnt a trench wet of Hill
301 xxa Ktopped short by our tire cur
tain nnd the enemy was not able to
debouch.
On the right bank of the iier and
in the Woevre there was Intermittent
nrtlllery lighting.
According to the latest tcports ,t
has been detetmlneil that on th" night
of May d-'.i the German launched In
the region of Hill 301 three very
violent attacks in which large numbers
of troops were used, as reported In the
communique this afternoon, on our
positions at Hill 2S7, a ecnnd on our
trenches, northeast of 11.11 301, and
finally on the wood to the wet of the
hill mentioned. All these attacks,
broken doxxn by our tire, cost our ad
versaries very serious losses
Our batterlcH took under their mo
provision convo)s and enemy detach
ments on the toad between Kssey nnd
H.i onvllle (northwest of Pont-a-Mousson).
The efforts of the Germans aie now
concentrated on this small front based
upon Hill 3(H, on the west b.uik of
the river, and the lull In their opera
tion'" on the east bank continues.
To. day there xxas only Intermittent
artillery activity on the east bank.
French detachments! made counter at
tacks lat night, driving the Germans
from certain positions In this sector.
Including some arts of trenches north
xxest of Thlaumont farm, southwest of
Dou.iumnut.
Diinnnmonf nonibnrdeil.
The Germans conducted an intense
bombardment last night on the Douau-tnont-Vaux
line without making any In
fantry attack.
The ntllclal communique Issued by the
War Ollice this afternoon says :
After a violent bombardment of the
French positions on Hill 304, on the
Verdun front, the Germans attempted
an advance at 3 o'clock this morning,
The attack was repulsed completely.
French counter attacks east of the
Meuse drove the Germans from cei
taln position they had captured. The
position recaptured by the French
consisted of some parts of trenches
northwest of Thlaunvont.
An Intense bombardment was con
ducted by the Germans In the sectors
of Fix and Chatlllnu and between
Douatimont nnd Vnux.
Thete was grenade righting at Apie
tnont and In the Valley of the Fecht
South of Autroches (nortliwent of
Soissons.) thi! Germans attempted an
attack, but were rcpulaed.
At Holante, In the Argonne, the
French captured two small German
posts, killing all the occupants.
F.lsewhere on tne front there were
no Important developments.
The Germans, It is believed In Pat is,
have tecently brought new forces to the
Verdun front, both from other parte; of
t lie line In the west nnd also from tho
eastern theatre.
The bombardment directed by the Ger
man sunt auaUist tho Hill 301 sector,
which continued for somn forty-eight
hours before the first heavy Infantry
attacks were made, Is described as the
most violent which the German batteries
li,ive yet shown In the Verdun opera
tiow. According to reports from the
front, the French were better able to
withstand this boiiibardiiieul ih.in would
have been pojslble hitherto, because of
the extent to which machine guns arc
Confirmed on Fourth Page,
EXHUME A SECOND
POISON CASE BODY
( hiirffe of Murder nt Home for
Aired Denied by Accused
Woman Head.
WITHSTANDS A ORILLIXO
MiV. (iilliuan in Cell Cries In
nocence Daiipthter to
Aid in Defence.
lUr.Trotit'. Conn . May 9 "I didn't do
'I : I d'dn t kill any of them," screamed
Mrs. Amy Aiihu-Gilllgnn when haul
pressed to-,lay during a thljd degree pro
cedure by dpt. Itnbert T., Hurley of the
State police. It xxa lie who was chiefly
Instrumental In developing the case
agnlnt the woman which tesultcd In her
oriel latt right on the charge of the
inii'ibi of Franklin ; Andiews and the
siispic on tint he cuu'ed the death of
more than twenty other persons who had
been Inmate of her home foi aged per
sons In Windsor, Conn . In the I t.t five
) ea r..
Thei.. were fifteen inmates In the home
lat night, hut to-day there was a pro
cession of ntitomoblln at relatives ar
rived to take away patient, until to
night there wete only half a dozen, and
they were practically friendless and
homeless
Dr II. F King, the medical examiner
of Wuid'ot, who certified to deaths at
the home and was alo Mrs Archer's
Plivsici.iu in thief, to-night ridiculed the
ch.iige against Ml Gllllgan nnd Insinu
ation against himself.
Mi Gllllgan. who... nrt hubind
William A rein r. died fixe years ago and
the "Pi'iiiul liutbar.il, Michael Gllllgan.
Iw.i wais ago. was up c.itly lo-.lay in
the Hattf.iMl county Jail, wheie h. w i
lock.d up last mght to axxalt trial, when
sht. -waived the leading of the complaint
and a plea of not guilty was entered for
Ik i
I'oilnael tine of X InitlcHllon.
Itv noon she had engaged as coun
sel llenedlit M liolden, with office in
Hartford andaNvn York and noted att
a criminal l.iwjer. Mr. Ilulden directed
Mrs Gllllgan to talk to nobod) with
out his permission. He sa)s hi client
is must Kiotsly accused and will readily
prow lit r Innocence at her trial.
In her tight Mrs. Gllllgan will have
the support of her eighteen-) ear-old
daughter. Mary I". Archer "Why
shouldn't th" inmates die"' she inquired
as she left her mother's cell after a
short visit at noon. "Many of them
wete d)lng wi.en they were brought to
Windsor "
Asked what the tubjeit of conversa
tion with her mother had bleu .u
Gllllgan declared the) had not discussed
the question of guilt.
"There Is no question of m mother's
innocence,' sue declared.
The prospect it that the accused
woman vvill haxe to remain In her cell
until the June term of tin- Superior Court,
when the Grand Jurx will consider the
ase
State Attorney liuali M Alcorn of
llartfoitl 'Unix, wlio s.giK'd tne war.
rant for Mrs Gill.'g.m's attest after re
.civlng from Dr. A J. Woltf an expert
medical at, al) sis, refused to-day to dis
cuss the case. lie admitted that an
other body beside that of Andrews had
been exhumed, and that evidence were
dj-coxered of a poison other than ar
senic, which Dr Wolff rotsjrts was
found In the viscera of Andrews.
It was In a lonely cemetery In Cbesli-'
Ire. New Haven county, that a small
part), including Dr. Wollf and Capt.
Hurley,' ofiened the two-year-old grave
of Andrews. There was scarcely i
tl.iee of decomposition beyond a (.lightly
peneptlble lecessloil under the e)es.
That strengthens the State's theor) of
arsenic Hlsonlng. because only arenlc
will act as such a preservative and Its
use is foi hidden by law In embalming
of the forty-eight death nt the
Vreher- home ..line January 1, 1911
the average attendance of inmates being
ftom fifteen to eighteen - the State bus
p. ctt that about one-half were of sus.
plciout causes.
Ilnals of Mute's linrnc
Tne Stale baes its murder ch.iige on
a money motive, contending that Mrs.
Gilhgau, a proprietress, of the old
Folks Home, took $t.oon, or .in much
mote its the lnillvldu.il cum' might stand,
und giiataliteed the Inmate maintenance
lor life. The quieke i the Inmates die 1
lifter paying Up the lest overhead ex.
I ense and tho more bank account for
.Mis Gllllgan. the prosecution asserts,
State police detectives, after falling
to-day quite as completely tit last night
to wring any sort of confession from
.Mis. Gilllgnii, went to Windsor, where
they ransacked the Archer house They
took away a mass of letters and docu
nients. Including waivers nnd contract
which Inmates had (.tailed, nnd from the
house and barn gathered up three bushel
baskets full of bottles, notne empty an I
some tilled. One of the ni contained
a recall, plalnl) labelled, and sold by
William 11. II Mason, a druggist of
Windsor, who says the Archer home fre
qiteutly bought aisenlc, explaining It was
for poisoning r.its.
One of the lelatlvet of Andrews dis
covered among his etfects a letter from
Mrs. Gllllgan uiglng him l make her
a loan of S1.000 before a certain date.
This letter, turned oxer to Hartford
newspaper nearly two years ago, was
the oilgltinl clue on which the Stall has
built Its circumstantial structure of a
mill tin- accusation. The Stato's detec
tives admit their case Is purely circum
stantial SENATE FIRM ON ARMY BILL.
Coliilii'olllUe 1 1, peeled fnr llrgnlnr
Force of f HO, 011(1.
Wasiiinuton. May 9. On motion of
Senator Chamberlain the Senate decided
tq-day to send the army reorganization
bill back to conference with Instruction
ti Its conferees to adhere to tho amend
mends rt'oommended by the Sennte,
The Senate amendments In which the
House refused concurrence were those
fixing the regular nrmy at SSn.noo and
tirtiv lillng for a volunteer army and the
construction of a Government nitrate.
plant, it is regartteii prtumnio that the
confeieiiit. will soon reach an agreement
and that the bill will become n law some
time next xveek. Indications are that the
cxr.ferees will compromise on a regular
army of 180,000 In time of peace.
WILSON SENDS TO BORDER
9,000 COAST ARTILLERY,
MILITIA AND REGULARS
WILSON S ORDER CALLING OUT
MILITIA OF THREE STATES
WASHINGTON. May 9. By the direction of the President, Sec
celary Baker tent the following identical telegram to Govt. Hunt of
Arizona, McDonald of New Mexico and Ferguton of Texatt
Having in view the possibility of further nR-prc'ssion upon the ter
ritory of the United State., from Mexico nnil the necessity for the
proper protection of that frontier, the President has thought proper to
exercise the authority vested in him by the Constitution nnd laws nnd
cull out the organized militia necessary for thnt purpose.
I ntn in consequence instructed by the President to call into the
service of the United States through you the organized militia of the
State of Arizona (New Mexico and Texas), which the President directs
shall bo concentrated at the places designated by the commanding Gen
eral. Southern Deportment, now nt El Paso, Tex., nnd which he has
been directed to communicate to you.
Upon arrival of the organized militia nt the designated places of
rendezvous they will be muttered into the service of t he United Stutes
by ofllcers of the regular army designated for that purpose.
Acknowledge. NKWTON D. UAKKIt,
Secretary of War.
OBREGON OFFERS BIG ARMY
ON BORDER IF U. S. LEAVES
Proposes Sfrontr Force to
Down Nandits if Americans
Fi Withdrawn! Time.
i
Lt. Paso. May 9 Gen Scot' and
Ohreson held their fifth ofH-i.il confer
ein e this afternoon on the main situa
tion In Mexico, Gen. ubiegon came to
the American side and went dire, t to
Gen. Scott's private car, at ." o'clock
Juun N. Amador, Sub-Secretary of For
eign delations, accompanied the Mexi
can War Mlnlter.
only Gen Scott, run-ton and Ob
legoti and Senor Amador attended, A.
J. McUuatters, again! whose presence
In the conft rence the MexUans protested
to-day, and the secretary to McQuat
ters, who has been acting sect clary of
the meetings, were present for a few
minutes only, then retired, the presump
tion being that the objection of Gen.
Obregon wus sustained by Gen. Scott.
Shortly after returning to Juuiez Gen.
Obrc'on authorized Consul Carcla to sax
lor hltn thnt he had presented to Gen
Scott the proposal that if the Ameriiati
troops would witrdiaw from Alt xlco nnd
conccntiate along th- Atneilcan bordei
Mexico would concentrate a large force
nti Its side of the line tu help keep
bandits back ftom the l'nlted Sta'e.
Mr. Garcia said that Gen. obregon is
not demanding the Immediate with
drawal of the American forces, but
merely Insists on the fixing of a date
for their iemov.il.
The conference lasted until S 3ft, at
which time Gen Obregon left the car
and returned to Juarez. He had dinner
with Gen. Scott and returned to Juarez
soon after tho meal wa finished.
Lieut. -Col. It. F. L. Michie, nld to Gen.
Siott. stated . "There will be another
conference, but probably not to-ntght.
Gen Scott will not see the ncwepapct
men."
Mr. McQuatters was eucceedtd in the
conft reuce by 11. Y. Ilaskln. Shortly
after Haskln entered the conference Col.
Francis Sen alio sent In word to Gen.
Ohiegon that Ilaskln Is very close to Mc
Iju.itters, in fact that he is manager of
tianspottatlon for McQuattet's coin
pan). It ecu 1 1 Drmnnil Denied,
I ten. Scott refused to discuss the u
ulls of the conference yesterday, elthet
In attli inatlon or tlinlal of tho statement
that Gen Obregon hail tlatly demanded
the Immediate withdrawal of the Ameri
can forces from Mexico. Mexican of
ficials also denied that such demand hail
!'ut made, and that they had threatened
to attack the American forces In Mexico
If the withdrawal did not begin shoitly.
They frankly admitted that they bail
demanded that the United States place
it time limit for the American troojw
to tcmalii In Mexlto as a condition
piecetletit to the signing by Obregon of
the protocol drawn by hlmelf and Gelt,
Scott lat Tuesday
The call for the militia of three States
to assemble anil the order to four ad
ditional regiments of l'nlted State legu
lar infantry anil llxe batteries of artillery
to ptoceetl Immediately to the bonier
Is considered here as an answer of
the l'nlted State to the stuldmi nness if
Obregon, nnd It Is expected to have its
motal effect upon future deliberations.
Jumi Amador, Sub-Secretary of Mexi
can Foreign Relations, gave open ex
ptcsslon of approval to the move to-day,
"If the American Government bail
tent a sufficient number of troops to the
border months ago we would not now b
confronted by ruch serious quetlons,"
mild Amador.
"We do not look upon the movement
with suspicion . we are glad to see the
movement."
Call.
'poll Scull.
Amador called upon Gen. Scott shortly
bfore noon to-day and hail a prlxate
conl'etenco with the American Chief of
Staff, At the same time n conference
was being held In Gen. Obrcgon'a car
between Carranzn Consul Andres Gniela,
Gen. Garcia and other Carranzn of.
llccts,
Andres Garcia sent a wile to Kliseo
Airedondo, Mexican Ambassador ties-
Innate In Washington, in otestlnu .ic.ilnst
. .1. McQuatteiN being In the confer-'
ence. He said he sent the messace m
Ilia reauest of Gen. Obregon. He said
that Gen. Obregon and Gen, Scott had
given out nothing about the conference, ! to-diiv, Invalided home from the front,
yet there had been leaks and that it was I hut before going to the hospital he
a lesult of "an Interventionist propa-' begged Gen. Hugh L. Scott, Chief of
gandu." j Staff, to penult him to return to the
Gen. Ohiegon when seen In Juarez to. ; field Col Hrown Ik suffering from
day and asked reganllng the truth of hernia at a result of hard tiding,
tho rrMrt that he bail doninnded the ' "I can ride as well as any of them."
withdrawal of the American troop said: I he asserted, "and l want to go back,"
"If I took the trouble to deny alt such -matter
1 would have time for nothing I BERNHARDT AT THE FRONT.
else. They are merely emanations ot
the yellow press." i etre Will Hectic for lhe llrneftt
This afternoon lal Gen. George Hell, . . . ..
Jr., commanding the American border tinnier,
putrol at this point, redlsposed of lilt ,inil ( iMr lmtch tn Tur Si x
forces in hi rami, scattering troops all,
over the city and moving a battalion In
from I'ort miss, a battalion of Infantry
with a machine gun wua placed In the
county court house.
Conference on the Border
Amicable, Aguilar Hears
r(ii' 1 btr nnpntc'i t Tiir 't:'
.Mexico Citt M.i) '.' --Minister of
Foreign Relations Aguilar said to
day that the Ohreson-Scott con
ference has been tenevxed under the
most lavor.ible .tiiplcc.t for set
tling the dillitiiltiet of the two na
tion! II is learned on a tellable
and conlldcntl.ll source that the
two General, are far advanced In
their discussion regarding tho man
ner of Jointly patrolling the ftontler
wit ii ample foice..
Mexico city l not excited over
the Big Hi'tid incident, trilttltii; tn a
favorable settlement as formerly.
CARRANZA'S ORGAN
SEES WAR'S MENACE
Kl Pueblo" Siit . . liis
Impeded Mexico' struii'
ule for l.ilicrtx.
Mexico i'iti. May i The official
Government organ, .' t'url.ln, savs to
da) of the Glenn Splines raid
"W" are confioiited by the mo-'
serious, the mot grave moment of out
national life. We are facing the treiiien
dou danger of wai. which we have
never de-hed. and newt desired pro
xoked, ami which urel I not d.slre.l
by the Fnitcd State?
"From the beginning the snuggle to
Implant a constitutional form of Gox
eminent hat been met xvlth constant dif
ficulties from W.isli.iigton, which we
have met wltli liiipat tlality. good faith
anil a legitimate defence of the general
Inteiists of the country In the l'nlted
States refugee Mexicans, in union with
capitalists, Catholics and American ad
xeutttrers haxe plotted to undo the work
of the revolution.
"The stupid aggression of Villa and
bis bandits Is pot an isolated factor,
but Is count eted with the work of tbesu
divers, eleintnts tilling the frontier, xvho
dally tr) to ovtrthtow the Oinstltut.on
allst Govet nii'.ent and disturb the tt.iu
qulllty of the l'nlted States.
"Far trotii Hying to teach an iigtee
metit that would ! sensible and equita
ble, so that the toots of these consptra
t If might lie cut otic, for all, the
I lilted States semis a so-called punitive
expedition Into Mexican territory and
prolong the conllh't. Instead of settling
il through diplomatic chaiiueN Hit.
ttirle piect tl.'tits do not uphold tin c
ptoeeedlngs
"We have .vet the right to believe that
I'lesliletit Wll-oti. wlio Knew how to face
tlic gteat ct ,. Is of the I'utopean w.n.
who has proclaimed and sustained his
pacific them les, who has seen tin, me,,,
the ft hemes of hillhuMe r. ami xvho hat
opened his arm to the Latin American
tepubllcs in an irppc.il for continental
solldailt) under the Monroe Doctrine,
will not rftr.it e his steps, will not tear
up the foundations of hit pie-tlge by
unchaining a win which tiot'hlng can
Justify, and sacrifice a people iilreadv
weakened ami bled by their Internal
sliugglet.
"Against such a war are the collec
tive Interests of both countries, hut If
iinfortunatel) , we are dtagged Into such
a war, I'tesltUnt Wll-on may rest as.
silted that never again will the l'nlted
State" have the confidence of a single
Latin American nation Ami at for
Mexico, while one Me.in stand", the
gtound which he covers vvill be his home,
hit tellglon, hl lionoi."
COL. BROWN INVALIDED HOME.
.
Noleil Intnlry
Unci.
'
' 1.' I'vso, Ma
Lender lleitt to (in
In Front,
Col W c Hum u,
States Cavalt ), whose
n . altering Villa ban-
Tenth Fulled
, brilliant work
1 dll" In
Mexico has been often com-
mended b,i G.n. r;rr.!'.!r.g, arrived hero
I'mus. May 10. Sarah Hernhardt lint
gone to visit the front she will see
FoinetliltiR of the troops and will reeltu
for them and go among them encourag
ing them.
Now Foiro Will Aid (icn.
Fimsion in (iiiiudini:
Hip Idiip.
FIKLI) AlfTILLKIJV TOO
(' KTS 0KDKIIST0 fiO
I'pohIpM Arts A ft pi ii Coil
fpppiicp With On.
Milps.
VILLA II I "XT COSTS V. S.
MOHK TIIAX sii.non.ono
Throe Hanilit i minis ';ip
liirert l,v Thpir !l AniPi i
piin Prisoners.
WAsntsf.Tos, May 9 Kiev en mm
panies of Coaxt Arhlletw tompritlng
1.000 men, nnd live battel u-.t of Feld
Artillery were ordiml to. incut Uv th")
War Department to proceed to the Mex'
can bonier. Announcement to to.t effect
whs icide by Secretary HaUei following
a confetence tvltli Gen. Mie, .tetln
Chief of Staff of the aim)
This .vtlon was taken .. ft e. the Fiesl
dent had Issued orders this morn.ng
.ailing out the National Guard of thice
States, Texas, Atiopa and .New Mexico,
for border duty. Three .ttltl.tii.ri.il t.gl
Iiients of tegular inLtnir) cm also
ordered to the border.
Tile eleven companies of Coast Ar
tillery will be taiieii from pit- along
the Gulf of Mexico anil the .ouUi At
l.intlc coast from Galvctnu to Delaware,
not till of the men at nr.) ."ic place
being removed.
The five batteries of the Fifth Field
Artillery, now -it Fort Sill, Okia , i
Included in the orders, the r-ixth battery
of that regiment being already on the
border ordeii also went out to-night
to a battalion ..f Hie Tlr.r.l Field Ai
t.lb'ty, now at Toliyh.tim.i, la, to hold
itself in readllicsn to vrocenl ! I '.
border If needed Th" additional tr op.
aid report to Southern Deji.u tiuoit he.d
quarters, at S.ut Autumn, i'ex
N.l Nexx f lltllOnil,
Secietary H liter declared t ,i new ,o .
ders were not the ie,it of ar.v ii purrs
received fioni the binder to-n.gh', n.t
were contemplated tin- ii..in.uu
The follow lug companies of Count Ar
tillery are ordereil to the border;
One Hundred ami Twenty-seventh
from Galveston, the D'.lth from New Or
leans. Twentieth and Severitv- eveith
from I'ensacnla. Scxent) -fout 10 fin n Sa
x.tntiah. 115th from Charleston, Thitj
flrst from Cape Fear Itlv.r. Fnrtv -first
and Sixty-ninth from Foil Oclethoipe.
10.1tl from H.ilti'iiore anil ll"'!! from
Delaware Itlxer.
MaUet Deep I mpretslon.
Co'tllng on t .e heels nf toe i l Is
Mexican outlows on the Anurknn t..w f.
of Glenn Spiingsond Hoqtiillas Tex .ml
In the midt of dlsttiibing r.-ws of ,n in
Vase in the negut ation between M i.lo -Gen
Scott and Wat Mi,i,t.-.' ohregi' .
of Mexico, the l'r. .lciit's ,i 't.n made r
deep Impression hue
Announcement of the calling our nf
the National Gitanl li.rcc of the three
border States wa mule b Se.i entry
linker early thi hi'.T."L He said:
The outhie.tk in tii" lilg Head d'
tn.t of lb" llln Gtarde pas so far
ft.-tct emphasiretl the danger of
similar incurrence along nut long bor
der that th" President hat callttl out
the n.'it.a of Atizont, New Mexl. o
il.il Textis mid directed tlleni to report
to G.n Furstiiri. who will ass.'i. ...
-tntloi.X) itioug the bottler foi pin..'
tint. i
In ndditon to that time .td.i.t, n,.'
rtgiiiifhb" of regulai infant-y have
been directed to proceed to the' north r
and such t in ther air ingcineiu w i ....
made a" are ii"cesni) for t e . "in
plet,. seruttty of the p, op,, of the
l'nlted Stubs agaln-t i.nd- of this
kind
II tun lar I roup in ;,,,
The tegular army for." indei.il to
the bordt r weie the Third Infantry from
Madison H.trr.ick. W.itertown, and Ot.
vvego, Thirtieth Infantty, from plaits
buig, headquarters Matt, machine gun
company and live loinpiiiies nf the
Twenty-first Infantry, from V.intouxer
Hirracks. Washington, and three coui
panics of the same legtment ftom San
Die go, Cal
l'V.ur companies of tin rcgi'tieri are
already on the hordei One battalion of
lh Fouitcenth Infantty rinrn Fort
Lawtoii, Wah , mid one hitial,oii from
Fort Wright, Wash., were also ordered to
the bordei.
These unlets intitule regular army
forces which hail been held along tho
Canadian border for ue in nfoning
neutrality laws, with the exception of
two squadi ons of tho Second Cavalry at
Folh Kthan Allen, Vermont.
The action was taken following the
confetence which the President and Sec
ietary of War linker hail at the White
House last night and was based in part
on leeomniendatloris from Gent, Scott
and Funston, who expressed apprehen
sion that the Glenn Spring raiders
!J leturn
attar!: oilier bjiJcr
towns unless the hmde- patrol w,n
matet Lilly increased.
Gen, Fituston, however, Is (aid to have
urged other and more comptebenlvi
steps, having In mind the possible re
qulremenlt of a general lnv.if.lon of
northern Mexico, hut Secretary H.iker
bat declined "to make public the entlro
contents of hU report oi that of Geo.
Scott. .
The mllltlii and regular annv force
called Into service will give Gen. Fmi.
ston a total atldltlou.il force of approxi
mately 8,ono men, including the regular
Infantry regiments, totalling about n fino,
nnd Hie mllltla organizations, augiej.tt
Ing t,9il9 men.
Although Secretary linker insisted this
evening that thire xvas In contemplation
no additional calls on th Nntlnn.il
I Ii
