ui
NIGHT
EXTRA
ictienma
FINANCIAL EDITION
MIGHT
EXTRA
EJ7i.ijo. 20C
'EACHMENT
I GOVERNOR
STERN'S PLAN
(Sjh't Account for $5000
IK .. rt 1. Dnm'naa.
MO UfieCK, AC11W-V.
IjIcNIchol Man bays
JSh FACTIONS STIRRED
hibaugh Involved
in New Check scanctai
Um Stern. Penrose - Mc-
Hichol. Sttc' '""
jrSrunbaiigh received ,$5000 cam
15? rift from Louis J. Kolb,
SRh he failed to Include .n ex-
account, as "quired by Jaw.
Jffiumtaugh spent money for per-
rS? jomnndg that:
trnmbauBh call Legislature to
Kate new $5000 check charge
per with $1000 Oliver contri-
W j..!- flint.;
(Failure of Governor to act will
i'confession of cunt.
'Sill demand investigation in
,.- t lo1nfnrn.
Iprtrosc-McNichol men will force
tfjeachment proceedings .should
triunce war hi..
KrumoauK" bj
"See Kolb."
Kolb say 3J
it fn. to tret mixed up in any
1 ch mess as this. I am not come
to reply to the insane ravings of
muI have absolute confidence in
Gnemor Brumbauch. He is a
Ztleraan and has never abused
!T-.nfirlPncc. He never misused
Kent of my money, although that
foot Wing that ho ever had any
tflt"
m Senator Varo savs:
fSSteraJB a blatherskite
EFrom the Century Dictionary:
ni.twskite. 1. One who talks
fjtonjense in a blustering way; a
fewer. Hence. 2. A ggod-for-jithinK
fellow; a "beat."
ifRSi threats made by Isndore Stern, a
ffitoWe-McNIchol attorney, to start im
t M&bmBt proceedings ngalnst Governor
f'iBnlmWgh" should thoGovernor decline
1Kj it ... t .-iA..n Vila mita OPCnrri
KIW .thtn. nl1Afritlnna mm A hv Stem
fffc
lllk f ' ML I
PHILADELPHIA, WEDNESDAY, MAY 10, 1910.
CortmoiiT, 1810, Bt THB 1'cm.io Ledorij CosirANt.
PRICE CXN33 GENT
GERMANS TAKE
SUSSEX BLAME;
HONOR PLEDGE
Berlin Makes Go6d on First
Promise in'Note Accept
ing U. S. Demands
ADMITS GUILT FORMALLY
Understood Comm u n i c a t i o n
j Speaks of Reparation and Pen
, alty for Submarine Captain
t AMSTERDAM, May 10. "The Gcr
I man Government has accented the
iwoJ. ..,.iL.:,!.i.;i,Lzlii;d evidence furnished by the United
States as to a submarine attack on
"BLATHERSKITE." SAYS VARE
This is Jsadore Stern, who threat
ens to ask for impeachment of
Governor Brumbauch because of
alleged $5000 gift from Louis J.
Kolb, which he charges the Gov
ernor failed to account for.
'MOVIES' ALL OVER CITY
TO SHOW GREAT NEED
OF VOTING FOR LOANS
AIM' ft 15000 from Louis J. Kolb that
Qf-'k., .nniinrMl fm. aroused both
Ilintlta of the Republican organization
JKlUiid -pat on the statements 1 mada
pcpfeht. They' nre plain and I have
IMtalty for every assertion or charge
.'(lwntain. I have nothing to say
teiyY it present as to my courso of
tmkxk I believe In giving the public nil
H(iaforoiat!on In "my power, but Just
jifldo not think it proper to talk on ray
PJhtairas Stern's reply to questions ask--kfjurtfier
enlightenment on his accusa
nt, ot.uavernor uruinoaugn.
DES INFORMANT'S IDENTITY.
K Stern's nosltlon nR a member of the
uMrujure from the 3d district and his
jwlnence therein as the floor leader of
J4JPnrase-McNlcliol fences made him
gmttousTthls morning.
H-Stern went over the"copy of his
itanenl as sent out in advance by. the
Wnjlppla Republican Leaguo, and verl
jrfPit charges It' made against the, Gov-.
JM,Iawyer and member of the Legls
JJftncA 4o you not think you owe It to
labile to mako known the source of
jNflJnformatlon that the Governor" hart
ertfa to' his own uss-n check Intended
ftMWUialgn donation?" he was asked.
SgftfyBay 'ask whatever questions you
Advantages of Improvements
Will Be Illustrated for Benefit
of Taxpayers and All
Others
PLEA FOR RAPID TRANSIT
Proprietors of Amusement Places
Agree to Use Films to Aid
Municipal Project
Pgittlme, I do not care to discuss
ft further."
KHTOou make Hnown the Identity of
JlBfprmants?"
gMnot. Understand me. I could
Pwwwn the source of my informa-
SiPVJ Tm not- J have ample and
IJIMWhorlty for every statement I
PJJMt.Tilght, I will not weal at this
P"? th the identity of my informants
SSWure plans."
SOTA013 the member of the Brumbaugh
Cnr!.Co.mmttea quoted by you as in
"Pl8 Governor where he could get
RfWMter within 15 minutes?"
fcUJ'I must remind you that you
2f"iiatever questions you wish. I
glywnawer them. I am not thin-
iL', ffltJ?.tni1 t0 ea-y anything, now.
y, wtnlt this is the time."
SX0L?5ntempIatB any BtePs toward
Wiastcutton of the Governor under the
SWJtfor&ctlces act?"
BRsHi another nuestlon I do not care
gWW now i believe this matter
Mnhii. brught t0 ho knowledge of
ggMfl and I have evidence If It Is
1U,1 tV'.1"" er snoum he
iKv ,r. "'str'c.1 attorney?!
8l6i
grj r
HllfiJIVA - " --. ..v.i i
mihlt'Z'l aa. r " ! to. at
sutements I made last nlcht
KitS .. . ? i tove told the public
WTiC..-,rrww,i. 8t.an. !at
ai-l.-
IPftVa !... '- . .. V ,v IMfilH.
WSwerVnv :V" pu; l don lnteni
lE"?' Questions now."
AjtornCy samuel P, Rotah was
M wi rawrour, column On
2 WEATHER
FORECAST
&"? "rtvleinttu-Vn.
Wiou,,?Ja iAw. with
T...r?. warmer toninht-
&iwa becoming south and in.
k
W.
Ct-OST AWlTioUND
'ts$?sM!gFx .vFT-
fft!5K&ffiSB
!" Ill dK'.S"4"" bii 7tk. anr4
mi&rMJ!. SW" of sat , af.'i
FW&iiSa i.. "aWrW-pok.
?w t "-" fr a. tun, tin
The city Administration's fight for the
loan bills is being carried Into the motlon
picturo theatres, where a direct appeal
will he presented to 300,000 voters.
Slides, grnphlcally showing the need of
better transit facilities, additional play
grounds, the nrt museum, waterfront de
velopment, new bridges and payment of
Injured city employes, all dependent op
the loan bills, nre being assembled today
by Director of Public Works Dalesman for
distribution tomorrow morning to 110
Photoplay houses throughout the city,
Scores of policemen will' carry the' elides
to the thentres which have signified their
wll Insness-tff-nld' the municipality In
"'""ii'b ii eawe main tiernm tin. ntihtt..
The benefits to each partlfcular locality
" ;. "muusii me voters- rntincatlons of
the bills will be thrown on the screen.
Hfteen dlfferenr-'slldes will be used, at
least half a dozen at each performance.
The campaign will begin tomorrow and
continue until the eve of the primary elec
tion on May 16.
All the city departments 'jco-operated In
furnishing slides, which nro Illustrations
nhd texts showing the municipal under
takings which would be made possi' le
with the money provided for in the bills.
The illustrated slides Include an elevated
structure, from the Department of City
Transit : the city wharf at Christian street,
from the Department of Wharves, T)ocks
and Ferries; grade-crossing dangers and
the need for fire apparatus, from the De
partments "of Public Works and of Public
Safety ; the proposed Art Museum, and
other permanent Improvements.
"By utilizing the movlmr-nicture th.
ntres we nope to reach 300,000 Philadel
phia voters," Director Datesman said.
"The theatre proprietors are Interested In
our cause and willing to help."
BEAUTIES 'BUTT IN' ON WILSON;
APOLOGIZE AND HE LAUGHS
Three Girls Enter VrongDoor After
Viewing Cabinet Room
WASHINGTON". May 10. Three pretty
girls startled President Wilson out of his
chair this 'morning when they burst Into
the executive office, unannounced, during a
conference between the President, Senator
Kern and Representative Kline, of Indiana,
The girls had been looking at the
Cabinet room and took the wrong door
on leaving. When they found themselves
confronting the President their confusion
surpassed even his surprise. To their
apologies the President laughed and told
them to return later when ho wasn't so
busy,
OKLAHOMA OFF FOR NEW YORK
the steamship Sussex, acknowledged
its responsibility, punished the U
boat's commander for violating in
structions and offered full indemnity
for injured Americans," says a dis
patch received from Berlin today.
The message adds that the confes
sion of the German Government was
handed to Ambassador Gerard on
Monday afternoon.
The offet of indemnity is afso ex
tended to other neutral governments,
including Spain, Switzerland and
Greece, whose subjects were wounded
as -a result of the steamship's belnjr
torpedoed, the dispatch adds.
' WASHINGTON", May 10.
Germany has made good on the first
promise In her nole accepting America's
position In the submarine Issue.
The State Department today received
word from Ambassador Gernrd, nt Berlin,
that Oermany's formal acceptanco of re
sponsibility for the nttack on the Channel
liner Sussex Is en route to Washington
from Ilerlln. It Is expected to reach the
State Department late' today or tomorrow.
Ambassador Gerard's cable contained si
brief outline of the German note. It in
understood that Germany In accepting
responsibility makes It clear that she will
make full settlement,- for the American
claims of Indemnity.
However, the State Department was
silent whether the communication would
contain anything but acceptance of re
sponsibility for the attack. It was learned
later that If the present message does not
contain assurances of reparation and am
ple punishment of the 'submarine com
mander, another. Including such infoima
tion, will bo dispatched to Secretary Lans
ing. EMBASSY PLEDGES REPARATION".
At the German Embassy It was safd
that full disavowal, ample reparation and
satisfactory punishment of the submarine
commander would bo given the United
States, when It became knqwn there that
Ambassador Gerard had received Ger
many's admission of guilt In the Sussex
case. j
Tho pledge lit the last German note
makes It self-eVldent there will be no
hesitation by Germany In disavowing the
act. It was said, and although no oincla!
could forecast what punishment would be
given the commander, tho opinion was ex
pressed It would not be "too lenient."
Discipline In the German navy for viola
tion of Instructions ns Important as those
Involved In submarine warfnre. Is very
strict. It was explained.
OFFICIALDOM RELIEVED.
Acceptance by Germany of responsibil
ity for the attack on the Sussex has
greatly pleased Administration officials
Conllnurd on Page Flic, Column One
A.s w.-.awmvAm a mmv -, , J vmMJ 1
JOINT PATROL
0BREG0N PLAN,
HE TELLS U. S.
Scott Advises Washington
Carranaz Leader Pro
poses Method to Keep
Order
MISS GRACE PHELPS
Young Philadelphia writer, who
was run down and perhaps
mortally injured by.n motorcar
yesterday in New York, where
she is a member of the staff of
the New York American. She
formerly did nowapnper work in
this city, where she is widely
known.
POPE AND SPAIN'S
KING BELIEVED IN
PEACE MOVEMENT
Foreign Embassies at
Washington Hear Alfonso
Will Suggest Armistice
WORD REDUCES TENSION
No Move Yet Made to Halt
Movement of Troops to
Boundary
.
QUICK N'E'WS
GERMANY EXPELS NEWSPAPER ASSAILANT OF (HERAT!
BERLIN, May 10. It is understood hew this afternoon that the
German Government has expelled Edwlu Emerson, an American nex's
paper correspondent, who mote a harsh, aitaclc on Ambassador Gcv
ard in a Berlin newspaper.
WIMBORNE RESIGNS AS LORt) LIEUTENANT OF IRELAND
LONDON, May 10. B,aron "Wimboraehas resigned" as Lord hfou
tenput of Ireland. It was officially Announced today. BasA-esigqiation
was the result of tiie Irish uprising:.
PIMLICO RACING RESULTS
First race, 2-year-olds, 412 furlongs Tcllbw Sally, 103, He-
atec, $2.80, $3.60 and $2.50, won) Aiinee T., 10b, Scauttinscr, $3.80,
$3.-10, seooncl: Kentucky Boy 107, Tarr'lngjoa $4.60, third. Time, 00 ZAi
EL PASO, Tex.. May 10. General
Scott has submitted to Washington
General Obregon's suggested plan for
a co-operative border patrol, the
r ' : ri:T:;. .; ir 78.00 German troops-killed;. British estimate
admitted today ' I LONDON,, May ,10. Moro than 700,000 Gorman soldiers have been killed to
5,,f ,!,! .i. r ! da to and l;"l,310' wbunuod, according to'a' press bureau announcement today
Scott said a repl from nshinB-, Nu-ed upon official German casualty lists.' ThV -prisoner and missing number
ton would not he necessary before 334,892.
today's conference, at which, it is
hoped, negotiations may be concluded LONDON, May 10. The totnl British casualties, In April' were 91,162, it was
so far as border officials are con- annount,("' tay.
corned.
WHITE HOUSE SILENT
WASHINGTON. May 10.
Officialdom was keenly Interested today
In a roundliiR up of numerous and various
reports of fresh efforts that nro said to
be under way to brliiR about peace In
Europe.
Diplomatic circles believe that an effort
Is belnR made by both Pope Benedict and
King Alponso of Spain to bring the war
ring nations together.
Confidential reports reaching certain of
the embassies here say that the Spanish
King In expected very soon to suggest
an armistice, during shlch the Powers
can send representatives to a conference
for discussing peace terms. Generally,
diplomats here consider the present time
unpropltlous for any decisive action, be-cause-of-jhe.
boUefi UtaUakiew"..ffiu,.
Is f$i)mM$pithWlh'a'..hc" AjiglqV
Kren'ch-.tufcslan ' forces on 'tna "Western
front.
All Informatlbn regarding any messages
which may hajie been exchanged between
the Vatican and President Wilson Is with
held here. Kven the text of the com
munication left for the President last
Saturday w the apostolic delegate, the
Most iiev noun uonzano, is wunneiu u
Is understood, however, that President
Wilson is convinced that any tender of
mediation at the present time would be
mlsundei stood and that he has virtually
decided that there Is nothing he can do
at the present moment In the interest of
peace. .
The last word which tho President re
ceived dealing with the nttttude of the
Entente Allies was that brought by Am
bassador Thomas Nelson I'age, A'ho told
the President that he did not believe they
would consider any proposition to end
the war until after they had pushed to
completion certain movements now being
planned.
Scott was uncertain whether today's
meeting would end the conference, but j
decidedly optimistic over the outlook
both he and General Funston were
for a peaceful conclusion.
The Mexican situation was con
siderably clarified today by General
Scott's report to Washington of a bor
der patrol system proposed by Ob
regon. The ordering of State militia and
more infantry to the border is said to
SENATE COMMITTEE TO REOPEN BRANDEIS HEARINGS
"WASHINGTON, May 10. The Sonatu Judiciary Committee today decided
to reopen hearings on 'the nomination of Louis D. Rraiulels for Supremo Court
Justice. The healings will He resumed Kridny morning !) : subcommittee.
200,000 WAR DECORATIONS WON BY FRENCH
PARIS, May 10. Neaily '200,000 decorations have 'been distributed to French
troops since the outbreak of. tho war. These Include 1G0D 'crosses of tlie'Liegion
of Honor, -15,000 military medals and more than 100.000 vnr crosses. .
SCHOOL FOR CRIPPLES-ASSAILED AS'.UNFIT. '
A petition condemning conditions nt the Newton Annex, n sncnlnl snbnnl for
hav Jobcred up Obrecon on his de- c'',',le' subnormal, delinquent and truant children at 36th and Ludlow streets,
. ... . i was sent to the Hoard nf Riinp.ntfniT fr.i!.- i,,. i, i,,..i ,,i..i. ...... .,. ..-.i.
munds. The Var Minister insisted
on a time limit being set for the
United States troops to stav in Mex
ico and that privilege to send Mexi
can forces into the United States be
granted.
Vhe American troopers were shifted
along the frontier and more sent into
Mexico, prepared- for any emergency.
Funston and Pershine are in constant
communication.
,S(JTT AND OMlEGQX.Afi.UEE,
X? SAYS MEXICAN OFFICIAL
MKXICO CITV. vvla Galveston. Tex,.
May 10. The newspaper Kl P.ueblo today
publishes the following statement from tlv
Minister of Forejgn Affairs:
"The conferences between Gencinl Obre
gon and General Scott have ended sntli
factorlly. The forces of both countries
will in the future avoid such raids as oil
Columbus. The conference will be resumed
only to settle minor details of the with
drawal of American fmces from .Mexico."
It Is understood that the agreement
liuallv made between the Mexican nml
j American Governments wll provide for
the withdrawal of American troops from
Mexican territory I'lovlslon will be made
for a Joint patrol of the bolder to prevent
further raids upon American tonus and
ranches Carrauzlsta and Ameilcan tie
taehments will be stationed alternately
along the international boundary line, anil
uns sent to the Hoard of Education today by the board of visitors-of tho 27th
Ward. The petition, stating: that the 'school is unhealthfijl. insanitary" ami n.
menace to the health of the crippled and delicate children asks for a new building
In a better location or extensive repairs.
U. S. STEEL GETS BIG RAIL ORDER; PROSPEROUS
NEW YORK, May 10. Orders for steel raiis for delivery after May 1..1917,
amounting to about 11,000 tons, have been taken by the subsidiary companies of
the United States S.teel Corporation this week. It is .'o'fliWlly Wtdtdd ihat the
business of the corporation Is continuing fairly good."; Operatfons' atV. virtua'liy
at capacity and orders are coming Jn at a satisfactory rate.
TURKS PREPARE FOR OFFENSIVE ,CN GREAT SCAI.E '
"AMSTERDAM, Muy 10. A dispatch "'fro.- Be'rl'ih vqUoteV Hu'kkf Pasha,
Turkish Ambassador to Germany, as stating that the "recent fighting in the S,uea
Canal region Is only a preiude to other attacks, on a'grand scale, which will-bo
made by the Ottoman troops when necessary preparations have been made.
('luttmiril on Puce Klitlit, Column One
Superdreadnought Sails From League
Island to Receive Equipment "
The new superdTeadnought Oklahoma,
which was placed In commission at the
navy yard a week ago, left tier dock at
League Island this afternoon at 3 o'clock
for New VorW where she will be equipped
with her wireless apparatus and receive
the smaller guns her armament specifies.
The Oklahoma, which hag virtually her
full crew and is In command of Captain
Jtoger Welles has received here her com
plement of Btores and furnishings. Prom
New York the new battleship will go to
Sea, to engage In the first of a series of
tests .that will last six months, after
which. If she successfully stands all of
them, she will be Anally accepted by the
Navy Department.
These -tests will be ror oil consumption,
speed and the stability and resistance to
shock of her superstructure through the
firing o( all her batteries.
SURVEYS ENGINEER NAMED
BOY RUN DOWN BY CAR
NOT EVEN SCRATCHED
Rushed to Operating Table
Where He Insists He Needs
No Attention
NAVY LEADER OPPOSED
1700-FOOT DOCK; DIDN'T
WANT TO CUT ISLAND
P"Wca A "fwei tl, 22 and 2J
... I
Charles Frommer to Be Principal As
sistant at'?4500 a Year
Director Datesman,' of the Department
of Public, Works, today appointed Charles
Fromroer, 2810 North 29th street, to the
position of principal assistant engineer.
Bureau or surveys, at a salary or jiSQO.
Mr- Frommer, who has been an en
gineer In the city employ for several
years, was provisionally appointed . the
position several months ago, ancj at a
recent civil service examination he passed
with an average of 92.3. The position, to
which he waa permanently appointed to
day waa mafle acant bjr the citvation
of George K. Patesmaq to a position (a
the, Mayor's cabinet
A 5-year-old boy lay under n trolley
car for nearly half an hour today, clutch
ing a cent In his hand, while the crew and
excited passengers jacKea up me hik wi, ,
expecting to And him dead.
The boy, Raymond Gold, of 1833 Shars
wood street, received a cent from his
mother to buy an Ice 'cream cone. He
hadn't gone far when he was struck and
run down by a southbound car on 10th
street at Oxford, ThtS.car was stopped,
but the boy could not be found.
The boy. on the operating table at the
Women's College. Hospital, was examined
by several physicians. They worked so
fast that the boy was unable to say any
thing until ho made frantic signs that he
wished to speaic.
"Why are you poking around me so?"
he asked, unscratcbed and unhurt and
still clutching the penny, When the hos-
pital start recovereo, ne waa ni numc.
FACTIONS CARRY CONTEST
FOR" BOARD PLACES TO COUHT
Penrose, Vara and Franklin Party
Partisans Seek Vacancies
The bitterness of the factional fight
raging between the Penrose-Mo.Nlchol and
Vare-Brumbaugh forces for control of the
state organliatlon was brought out to
day, when Judge Rogers started hearings
on petitions we" ......- ...
boards throughout the city.
Both the McNIchol and Vare sides were
represented by attorneys, while the Frank
In party, yhlcti has deserted In a body
to the Vares. also asked for appointments
on several of the boards. Applicants ap
peared Jn person before Judge Rogers
to demonstrate their fitness for the 46b.
The court was petitioned to appoint
overseers in the 1st, M, 6th. 7th. 9th.
nth 12th and 14th divisions of the 1th
f jwafa.to act at the primary election. It
Is tnia ward n wmen ms jeaueiowji ui
County Commissioner 'Bob" Mopre la
threatened by Senator "Sam" Salus, that
is becoming the main battle ground of the
factional tight. ....... j ...
inadare Stern, who last night made the
Rear Admir.il Harris Feared
Western Part of Yard Would
Be Restricted for Future
Use
ORDERED TO NEW POST,
MEDIA MAN ENDS LIFE
Social Leader, Hvil Engineer,
Transferred by Ilailroad, Ends
Grief With Gun . .
TEUTONS' FOES DEFIED NOW AND AFTER VAR
BERLIN, May 10. Duke Ernst Ouenther. of Schleswig-Holsteln, president
of the German-Hiilgnrlan Society, speaking at a banquet to, members of the Bui.
garian Sobranje, who are visiting in Berlin, said:. "If nil nations will participate
equally in the liberty of the seas.-uccordlng to their merits and evolutionary fYu'ce.
then tho wounds Inflicted by this war will heal very, rapidly. Our enemies in
tended to crush us by quantity and destroy our economic power by accumulating '
sea foices, but they, forget that not numbers but the qualities 'of inner cohesion
constitute tho decisive factor." . '
POLICEMAN SAVES SICK WOMAN FROM FLAMES
Mrs. Edward Hagan, ill in bed, wuh re&cued in an unconscious condition
early this nioinlng troin the second tloor of 'her burning home, 2620 Colllna
street. Policeman Edwaid Reck, of the Trenton avenue and Dauphin street
station house, wnjj the .rescuer. Ho fought his wny through smoke and flames
to reach the sick woman. Hecuriied her to the btreot where she was revived by
Distilct Surgeon Slunainon. '
Tho fire, which stinted In tho wn.ste mill of FrederlchAVhitnkor, 2615-17" Col
lins street, swept through- that-bulldlng, causing a loss estimated at ?10,ooo.
Thence they spread to 'the Hagan home, which was slightly damaged.
TO HAVE 1000-FOOT BASIN
The new drydock, which was assured by
the action of the Committee on Naval Af
fairs of the House of Representatives yes
terday, will be placed In such a position
at the Philadelphia Navy Yard that It may
be expanded In the future to extend frpm
the Delaware River to the back basin.
The nproprlatlon of $3,500,000 which will
be available for the work will not permit
the building of a 1700.foot drydock, which
was expected, but will allow a docICpf
about 1000 feet to be constructed.
LOCATION RETAINED.
In the original plans, which called for
an appropriation of $6,000,000, It was pro
posed to build the dock so that It would
extend from the river to the pack chan
nel. A gate would have been provided
for the middle section of the drydock, as
well as11 foj- each end, virtually forming
two docks of 850 feet each. The location
proposed for the larger dock will be re
tained for the one to be built, as this
aran?ement will permit further building
along the .same line in event of an addi
tional appropriation within the next year
or two.
After saying that It would cost about
$6,000,000 to build a 1700-foot drydock,
the Admiral continues;
"Furthermore, there are certain dis
trict disadvantages in the construction of
a drydock entirely across League Island,
as would be Involved in the building of a
1700-foot drydock. It virtually cuts the
Island In two and restricts the develop
ment of the western portion of the. yard
for future naval ut.e.
It would eventually Involve the con
struction o& expensive bascule bridges
whlctvjat times would have to remain
open to permit the. entry and leaving of
ships. I am decidedly of the opinion that
the question as to the character of this
drydock, namely, as to whether it should
cut the island in two as prpposed or be
made 1000 feet long as in the case of
the proposed Norfolk drydock and the
Pearl Harbor drydock. Is one (bat should
sensational charges against Governor qnly b decided atteru very careful study
Brumbaugh In connection wun toe tvoio ana conmaeration or me pronapie ruture
check, represented the McNIchol follow- development of this navy yard, which is
era, while J Lee fatton took up tba sxactly waat Is being don no by a
cudgels or the Varee. board recently ordered tor that purpose.
A,
MEniA. May 10. R. Mervin Lewis, a
Civil engineer on the Philadelphia. Balti
more and Washington Railway, committed
suicide by shooting this morninr at the
home nf Horace R Manley, where he had
roomed for a year.
Lewis was among those affected when
the Media and Maryland divisions of the
railroad were merged May 1, and he had
been greatly worried because of the change
that took him to Wilmington to work.
This is believed to have deranged his
mind.
Lewis was a member of Christ Epis
copal Church and a teacher In tljo Sun
day school. He vins a member of the ex
clusive Media Club and of the "Co-Xle.
dlans," an amateur dramatic club com
posed of members of the social set of
Media.
TWO MASHERS FINED
TURKS REPORTED PLANNING NEW DRIVE ON EGYPT
BERLIN, Maj- 10. Preparations 'for another, advanpe on Egypt aro being
made by the Turks, the Oveisens Nows.Agency reports. "'The construction of a
rati loud through the desert Is being advanced rapidly, accdrdlfig 'to Constantinople
dispatches," bays tlm -agercy. "In view of their' de'feut at Quatia and the pos
sibillty of another s'urprls-o nttnok, tho British ai;e conducting aeroplane raids
constantly nlong tho front east of 'the canal, with tho intention of destroying the
railroad.' Tho native tribes have -been-deeply impressed by the recent British
failure." .'.,..
One of Them Clubbed Also for Per
sistent Efforts to Induce Girls
to Ride in Their Auto
Two men accused of being too persist
ent in their efforts to pereuade two young
women who were on their way home
from a dance shortly after midnight to
accompany them for a ride In an auto,
mobile were fined $10 and costs by Magis.
trate Watson today In the 20th and Beiks
streets station,
One of the men was arrested by a
policeman, who chased him in a taxicab
ifter he had attempted to escape. The
other, who resisted at rest, was clubbed
by a policeman and had to have his
injuries dressed In a hospital,
MIts Nellie Baxter, of 1206 Green street,
was quite nervous vhen she appeared to
testify against the men today, and several
times during the hearing wiped tears
from her eyes. When the magistrate an
nounced his decision In the case she broke
down and wept, Miss Baxter said her
companion was Miss Margaret Orr. of
S33S Smedtey street. Miss Orr was not
at the hearing.
The, two. men arresied were William
Hart, 26 years old, of West School House
lane. Germqntown, and Alfred Ogden. 27
years old, of Lehigh avenue near 11th
street. Magistrate Watson said he regard
ed the tine as lenient punishment, but he
had refrained from more severe punish
ment because he thought it possible that
the girta had encouraged the aliased
"Hjaahere" by stopping to taut to them.
. .PLOT TO,, KILL KING OF SWEDEN FOILED,. .
STOCKHOLM,' May ,10. Tho Afroiiblndet prints a report bt an unsuccessful
plot by socialists and-anarchists against tho.llfo of King- Gustav. "Sensational
rumors. are .current.", .says the newspaper, "of a plot, by the Young Socialist
Annrchlst party ngalnst the-life of the King of Sweden in revenge for the con
viction of threeSoclallst .leaders of tjia nntl-miljtaristle -campaigns recently. The
attempt on the King's life-'was planned to be made at tho horjo shew, but the
conspirators' were foiled by the mobilization of tim entiro detective -force and
the placing f'a caulon a&det&'tiyes in plain clothes around JOic King."'- ; " '
BRITAIN REFUSES COAL TO NEUTRAL SHIPS- i,
BERLIN, May 10. "Advices from The 'Haguerssays the Overseas News
Agency, "state that the Dutch steamship Waal, with coal from Cardiff to Birerta,
and on the return voyage with phosphates to Holland, was met; with refusal of
bunker coal on April 27 at Cardiff-unless sho would iigia,to take, t celsUt -for t
England and France after-calling at Rlzerta. The steamships Helena, 'tyhlcb has
been at LasPalmas since May 3,;and .Elizabeth, wfiicn Will'arr.tve''atLas Palrrias
on May 11, both coming' fi'bm Rosurio with grain for "Rolterdam, win 'only ba '
permitted to take on bunker, coal If they call at 'British ports, tiie advjees add."
...
CLEVELAND'S DAUGHTER TO TEACH .BLIND SOLDIERS
Miss Esther Cleveland, daughter of President CleveUtnity Is- studying1 t'h
Biallle system of alphabetical instruction for the bl'lhd Ja'f the-Pennsylvanla '
Institution for the Instru?tlon of the Blind; QverUrooic. in ' Pe;rVrat.n, f &
intended trip- to France to teach the soldiers who have lpst .their sight in the
war. Miss Maria Osborne, daughter of the president of the American Museum of
Natural HJstory, accompan.es, MUsr Cleveland in her. daily trips from Princeton
ttr Overbrook. ' ' ' ' , " '
.-....--1 )!! I -I . ,1.1, .1.. l.-f ... I' I
HOSPITAL GIVES TRACT FOR FOREST. RESERVE
The,' Friends' Hospital, at Frankford, has turned ovv-r 19 acres of ivgodland
at Fox Chase -to the State Forestry Department iia an auxiliary forast tesarvo,
The manaE.ers.of tje .JjosnHal will' set out this year 16,000 tree on tije tract. th
State furnishing the saplings. .
WIDENER PAYS.'$2pd,a00 FOR MORGAN TAPESTRY
Joseph, E. Yidene, .millionaire art coljector bf Philadelphia, has purchased
"The Crucinxion," by Van .Orlcy. fmn the. J. Pleipont Morgan Maaarta tap.
eatry collec'tign for i;00,QQ.' Jicceutly, Mr Widener bought jncea o? tapestry
from the Morgan collection for a price reported to bftve'baan'JiJOO.OOO, -, -
Ml
' I
m
i'
4
i
ci
ft1
M
1
