I
WEATHER
- -i
v
1
A
. -t
I
'..
.'
MARKE 76
Ntw YORK CITV
Average price of cop
per for week ending
May 3, 28.979.
VOL. 18, NO. 297.
Associated Press Special Leased Wire Service.
lWi0HiiX I'M
BISBEE, ARIZONA, WEDNESDAY MORNING, May 10, 1916.
, ARIZONA G;nera!y
f3ir.
PRICE FIVE CENTS.
1
BO W
PRESIDENT DISPATCHES 4000 ARIZONA, NEW MEXICO AND TEXAS MILITIA AND 400D MORE REGULARS TO HELP GENERAL
0
v
FUNSTON IN CRISIS ALONG THE MEXICAN BORDER
S M
PERSHING'S FORCES PRE-FARING.
!0T TO FIGHT
STRUGGLES
HER,
SHALL
LEST ALL
E
j
mm m
I I Vmi 1 &
! Ill llillfli
I
COLl'MHl'S. N. M., May 9.
General J. J. Pers'iing. expedi
tionary commander is redispos
ing his troops in accordance
with tlie deTelopments at the
border conference and in the
Big Bend district of Texas, ac
cording to reports from across
the frontier tonight.
General Perching is being
. kept in close touch with condi
tions in the I'niled States. A
Ling cede message was trans
mitted to him from Kl Paso to
day, hut no inkling of its con
tents were obtained here.
t Washington Fears Eventualities
Are At Hand, and Hurries All
Available Troops to the Front
i
,
i
Appealing Voice From Woe Stricken Nation Begs United States Not to Crush Her, Ex
hausted, Bleeding, From Her Long Heroic Struggle for Freedom. The Great Heart of
-Wilson Will Not Forsake Poor Mexico in Her Time of Need, Surely, Says. Mexico's
Official Press.
MEXICO'S PEOPLE ARE FAR FROM BEING HUMBLED
iTHOUGII, AND WILL RESIST HER ENEMIES BRAVELY
All Mexico Sees in the Impending Moment, A Crisis In Her National Life. "If the Worst
Comes, We Shall Not Forget Our National Heroes Who Held Life Cheaper Than Hon
or, And While One Mexican Stands the Ground Will Be His Home, Religion and His
Honor" Says Entreaty.
MEXICO CITY, May 9. Commenting editorially today on the gravity of the situation
resulting from the Glenn Springs raid. El Pueblo, the official government organ says:
"We are confronted by the most serious, the most grave moment of our national life.
We are facing the tremendous danger of war, which we have never desired and never pro
voked and which surely is not desired by the United States.'
"That nation ought to know the truth and ought to consider that all the sacrifices, all
the anguish which our struggles to purify our political organization and reconquer the lib
erties of trie people have cost, should not be rendered sterile by an absurd and unjust war.
"But before obstinacy and in the light of recent events and the unjust attitude of a great
people, Mexico should remember the figures of Cuauhtemoc and Juarez and know that
life without honor is worth nothing.
"From the beginning the struggle to implant a constitutional form of government has
been met with constant difficulties from Washington, which we have met with impartial-.
ity, good faith and a legitimate defense of the general interests of the country. In the United
States, refugee Mexicans, in union with caoitalists, Catholics and American adventurers,
have plotted to undo the work of the revolution.
"The stupid aggression of Villa and his bandits is not an isolated factor, but is connect
ed with the work of diverse elements along t he frontier, who daily try to overthrow the
constitutionalist government and disturb the tranquility of the United States.
"Far from trying to reach an agreement that would be sensible and equitable so that the
roots of these conspiracies might be cut, once for all, the United States sent, a so-called
punitive expedition into Mexican territory and prolongs the conflict, instead of settling it
through diplomatic channels. Historic precedents do not uphold these proceedings.
"We vet have the right to believe
that President Wilson, who knew how
to face the great crisis of the Euro
pean war, who has proclaimed and
sustained his pacific theories, who ha
seen through the schemes of filibus
ters and who has opened his arms to
the I.atin-Ainer'can republics in an
appeal for continental solidarity un
der the Monroe Doctrine, will not re
trace his st ens. will not ear up the.
foundations of his prestige by un
chaining a war. which nothing can
justify, and sacrifice a people already
weakened and bled by their internal
struggles.
"Against such a war, are the collec
tive interests of both countries, but
if unfortunately we are dragged into
such a war. President Wilson may
rest assured that never aeain will the
United Stales have the confidence of
a single Lat in-American nation. And
as for Mexico, while one Mexican
stands the ground which he covers
will be his home, his religion, his honor."
WASHINGTON, May 9. Including the troops ordered out today there will be nearly
45,000 soldiers perhaps 50,000 along the border or in Mexico, according to the best avail
able figures here. The war department has declined to publish the actual numbers.
llii
TO D00GL1S
TONIGHT
800 More Can Be Raised in
Five Days. Many Ex-Regulars
Fall-In When Hur
ried Mobilization Starts.
DISCHARGE PROMISED
WHEN TROUBLE ENDS
Many Recruts Fill Adjutant
Ueneral Harris Kanks tor
Service at the Front; Excite
ment Runs High.
PURSUING AMERICANS BATTLE
(Ey Review Leased Wire.)
MARATHON. Tex., May 9. The
two troops of the Eighth Cavalry nJW
moving toward Boquillas on the Rio
Grande, are canned tonight at Miller's
Ranch, seventy miles from here, while
the two tjops of the Fourteenth Cav
alry anil machine sun troops that left
the Marathon base this morning
pitched camp 30 miles south at Hen
derson's Ranch.
These troops probably will concent
rate at Boquillas, where C'jlonel F. w
bandits on the American side who
were cooperating with them. Captain
Cole said:
"I went to Gleen Springs Sunday
and, with a detachment of men,
scouted the Rio Grande carefully be
tween E'jquillas and San Vicente. I
am convinced that there are no or
ganized bodies on the American side
of the river.
"There are organized bodies of
bandits on the Mexican side operating
in several large bodies. At Tajitas
there is a tAdy of two hundred Mex
icans, while another body of two hun
(By Review Leased Wire.)
PHOENIX. May 9. Orders re
ceived from General Funston at
the oilice if the Adjutant General
this evening directs the mobiliza
tion of the Arizona National Guard
at Douglas. Arizona. The militia
will move tomorrow night. It has
been brought up I'j the number
of 9H0.
PHOE.MIX. May 9. The peace
J strength of t'.te Arizona national guard
included today in orders by Secretary
Baker sending more men to the
border for patrol duty, is 860 men,
according t Adjutant General Ch:is.
W. Harris. The milifia could be re
cruited to its full war strength of
1.800 men within live days if necis- Arizona-New
Sibley, in command, will, after a con-jdred or so yillistas is making south'
j for Boquillas.
"The bodies of only tmA dead Mex
icans have been found, but there were!
undoubtedly other Mexican dead in j
the Glenn Springs. There is a de- j
tachment of one cavalry troop at !
termine their disposition. Captain
Casper Cole of the Fourtheenth Cav
alry, who has been making observa
tions along the Rio Grande to de
termine the whereabouts of Villista
bandits, came in tonight from Bo
quillas and made a report of his
scouting work to Col Sibley.
A long range fight aci'jss the Rio
Grande between
American soldiers
FEARS FOR BISBEE
MET BY SHERIFF
Glenn Springs and another at Terlin-; Community's Protection Is
There is every reason to believe! Assured; All Precautions
. -
a detachment of ' mat I cxas p-jssemen nave iornea me Iiave Deen 1 &Ken.
and bandits, took ' K1 viranue in searcn tor Danuus.
place near Boquillas yesterday after
noon. Captain Cole, reporting the
fight, said he did not think there was
any killed or injured. Captain I'jn.
of the Texas Rangers, believes that
several Mexicans were hit.
Captain Cole informed Col. Sibley
that there were several large bodies
of bandits operating along the south
ern side of the Rio Grande. There
were probably live hundred bandits in j
all. Captain Cole reported. He said i
he was convinced that there were j this afternoon erecting a field
many Mexican sympathizers with the graph line south to Boquillas.
Col. Sibley goes forward tomorrow
to Boquillas, where he will join Col.!
A. C. McComb and Major Lanuhorne.
He said he did not know where he
would make his headquarters.
'ii- ... : 1 1 .. . . ......... ,..A ; i : .... ti,
, ; , mI" I evening before the mass meeting
confronts us. said Col. bibley. who ... , , ,
Crping moderation in all nets by
the citizens of Bi.bee and the War
ren District and offering assurances
that the welfare of the community
had been adequately assured. Sheriff
Harry C. Wheeler, pfter a few words
is an old compaigner in the Siour
country. Col. Sibley may engage
several scouts who have keen know
ledge of northern Coahuila.
A signal corps company was busy
at the city park, persuaded the as
Remitted hundreds to leave the pro
tection of this immediate section in
,the hands of the constituted authorities.
I by Mayor I. C. E. Adams to discuss
; ways and means to handle any silua-
ition which might aris The Mayor
WILSON. , telenhoned Sheriff Wheeler to come
9. Texas to Bisbee and nnpear at the meeting.
CRAMER HEADS ARIZONA ! TEXANS ENDORSE
KNIGHTS OF COLUMBUS. 1 DALLAS. Tex.. May
TCC'SON. May 9. R. W. Cramer, of Democratic county conventions todav On account or the size of the crowd
Tucson, was chosen state deputy Vf , uninformally endorsed President WH-.it was adjourned from the city hall
the Knights of Columbus of Arizona ! ROn and instructed for his renomina- to the park.
at the closing session of the 9th state fjon. I Sheriff Wheeler was introduced by
council of the order here tday and Republicans gave r.'j instructions as the Mayor and immediately asked the
Prescott. Arizona, was chosen as the to president, but instructed generally crowd to avoid any possibility of be
next place of meeting. Resolutions for jr p. McGregor, said to be op- coming alarrr.ed. He declared Hint
passed advocated having the federal : posed to Theodore Roosevelt, for everything "that could be done had
government acquire "Catholic his- national committeeman from Texas, been done" and assured the people
Drical ruins" in the state so that j Progressives instructed for Roosevelt that the officers of the District and
they might be declared national monu j (n (WO counties, but otherwise ,:v county were keenly on the alert tor
ments. no instructions. jany possible trouble that might arise.
WASHINGTON, May 9. With 8.000 additional troops under orders for the Mexican
bord er, including 4,000 National Guardsmen from Arizona, New Mexico and Texas, ad
ministration officials felt tonight that necessary steps had been taken to prevent further
raiding of American border towns by bandits.
President Wilson and his cabinet discussed the Mexican situation today but the President
had authorized the new troop orders before his advisers got there. General Scott and Gen
eral Funston recommended early in the day that additional forces be sent to the border.
It was clearly intimated in all quarters that there would be no change in the policy of the
Washington government; that the troops would stay in Mexico until the border was saf
from incursions;; that raiders would be pursued across the line every time they became
active and that the whole strength of the National Guard would be used if necessary.
Secretary Baker said the question of calling guardsmen from other states into the service
was not under immediate consideration. It was learned, however, that General Funston
had already been supplied with all papers, forms and instructions necessary to muster into
service the guardsmen of all states near the border and that an ordnance and quartermas
ter stores to outfit such troops on a full war basis are held at convenient points for quick dis
tribution. f )
Mr. Baker refused to discuss reports that General Funston had urged that he be given
a total of 1 50,000 men to maintain the border guard.
GEN. SCOTT SIILL
GATHERING
OPPOSITE
1
DOUGLAS
PREPARES
lllflDDT
II
mil uwk
Calling Out of U. S. Nation-1
at ItUardS, IS Keported in : gal authority to employ the state
Muttenmtt Trnnn Mavm 'forces beyond the border if he so d.s-
sary. he said,
strength force
Equipment for the lull
is on hand.
DOCGLAS. May 9. Company G.
Arizona national guard, comple'ed
mobilization t'jnight and has a
strength of fi2 men. Many are former
regulars. I'ntil the company is
ordered away there will be a campaign
for recruits with the promise of an
honorable discharge, as soon as active
service has been ilimpleted. New
papers, handbills and personal soli
citation will be used to bnng
company up to war strength.
the
SFEER REELECTED
MAYOR OF DENVER
, With the entire mobile army except
I five troops of cavalry under General '
' Vunston's command, in addition to
the 4.000 or more guardsmen and the
.several thousand recruits who are be
ing forwarded to the regular regi
ments a fast as they are mustered j
'in the I'nited States ha a consider-.
jible army strung over 1200 miles of
the frontier. Calling out the guard ,
for the time and the present miliiary ,
j law brings up the fact that as written J
I the act authorizes the President to j
j nse the state soldiers either within
, or without the I'nited States terri- j
jtory. j
The provision authorizing ;he use;
: of the guardsmen as such beyond the'
I border was held to be itiiconst imtion-!
jal by former Attorney General Wick-'
Governor Calles, Peeved at i ws ham. it never has been passed Sixth Conference Set for To-
upon by the Minreme i ourr. nowetr- j -.i rk, IY. .
mined to Concede No Point ;
Insists on Withdrawal.
(By Review Leased Wire.:
KL PASO. May 9 Fear cf a br- ak
between the I'nited States ai.d ieiro
over American troop dispositions iu
Mexico was temporarily alUvrd iV
night, when after a three aiul a hu'f
hour discussion, the Auieriran and
Mexican eonten-es a-ui:n hold aii;'-'r
coaf renre prbabl tuuT.'.ia .
Tonight's conferetire. t!:e nt;h hel.l
began shortly after tw o'i li '. i' h
Generals Srott afd Kuiistm .t the
I'nited Mates and Gtncra! ture.- :i
and Juan Amador. ub-sei -vtry (
foreign affairs, taking pari. A J.
McQimt:rs. mining man who h
participated in three other confer
ences, was present M the b;ii.:i :iit.
but withdrew on complaint the
Mexican representative that hi- busi
ness connections ren.iered hi. pres
enee undesirable.
It is undeistiid that Ger.eru! fbr
gon auain broiiunt up the sob.-e, t i f
a i!tlinite date for A merit an rt';
ithJ:aay Irom Mexico. He :U n
I sires. Only an injunction against the
; War Department could prevent it.
P.
of
By, the terms of the law the guards
men must pe mustered into the ser-
(By Review Leased Wire.)
DOl'GLAS. May 9. General
cnas vanes. mimary governor o vie of the I'nited Slates before thev
Sonora. said today that he could seejeonie under separate control of the
the reason for placiug additional, federal government. The full enroll-
regiment
tlOops on the Texas border, but there "'"-ngin eacii reg.me,,, ,aeu
..... . out is liable for service under penal-
is none for calling the militia to the ' . rlr,marti.,
Mexico border.
Army officers believe there
in get tins out
will be
the f ill
strength. They anticipate instead,
the support of the enlistment in the
.national cuard of the three states.
b"cause of the chance for aciive ser
vice. The regiments now are at peace
t'rencth. I'nder the interpretation
I nt. .Mexican government nas pien-jQ difficulty
ty of troops in Sonora and western
Chihuahua t'J prevent any raiders
from crossing the border." said Gen
eral Calles.
"If they crossed the border into
either state they could not possibly
escape: they would be captured. They pbir-eil on the law. the states are re-
coutu rest assured beiore tneir cap- quired to recruit them immediately
lure that death awaited them. to full war strength and to send the
"1 u'j not believe that the raiders recruits forward as fast as they are
in Texas were Villa's men. I think hworn in.
that they were hired by the Cientitico President Wilson specified no time
party or the interventionists . to stir nf service in his call. The law au
up sentiment in the I'nited States ihori.es hi'n to do so but does not
and bring about a crisis." make il mandatory. The situation is
' Mysterious Troon Move. such that no forecast as
A new and mysterious troop n.'jve- be made,
ment is tinder way in northern Sonora. i MaH tin Demand
! according to American arrivals from' niseo Xrredondo. Mexican
the south. The de facto trtAips. .ai,r .rfesimi.ne. nt the State
to time can I '' informed, ii is said.
Commission Government Is
Repudiated After 2 Years'
Trial By 9,000
(By Review Leased Wire)
DKNVEK. May 9 Opponents of
the Speer amendment early tonight
conceded the elect I'.in of Pobt. M.
S;eer by an estimated majority of
9.000 votes.
which have been mobilized near the
Depart
ment today formally repudiated lt
l nuiualiua Doruer, are reported to De ,e nam ()f ,is KOvernnient alarming
gathering at Cuchuta ranch on the tM1M,.nls ,i,.,t Genera! Ohregon had
railroad. :!5 miles south of ,,resented a demand for imniediare
Na( o.:ari
I .mglas.
Big Forces Near Douglas.
Colonel l.azaro Cardenes. at the
head of approximately eighteen hun-
ilriil f.fivalrvmen itt rennrtetl til httve
arrived there.
There is also a large infantry de
tachment at Kronteras on the Nai
znri railroad. 29 miles south.
of the American troops
lh.it t!u
1 American goerniunt is tin i i:i in
1 refusal to make this cor.ies.sion
ambas-' 11 as su .-gested to him Cat in
M lew ol tile tilg l.eii.l ran!, un.ler t!if
i..se of Canaitista trtMp. i!:- I n..ej
States could st arve!? on.-itl. r the tie
facto go eminent as fuily 1'jpaMi' -t
of coping with the bandits.
In liie fate of this s' a!e!i.ei.i. Ger
eral Obrcgon is umli r:H'.l to h.-oe
tasked i'r more time to ton-u'l :t!
the first tlii.'f. Veniist'.ario ( jrrjiia.
was tel- . llelierHl t'reiierit t l- iiiw:.... h ..1
DK.W'KK. May 9. Karly returns
from today's special election indicated
i m itnorawai
in Mexico.
Tells Of Plots
Mr. Arredondo's statement
,eeraphed to General funsion tor nis planned t leave here loms-.i lor
'information in meeting the situation . San Antonio, where, at his he-.!quj-t-on
the border. It asserted that An-. (rs in Koit Sa-u !l niston. he a t
:tonio Villareal. a political xi,e from ; take charge '.it the ne troop dispr-i
General Calles. who returned to Aiexico. s res,.....s. .... . e nonsi nai wi:i , ome i n I tie ,iespt. n
Agua Prieta Monday, is reticent about. Springs tragedy and had sought to in- . of S.rtO.i militia and regular art.n n-rtt
his trip to Kl Paso and his conference ''! Mexicans on ooin sme o, inr,,,, ,ne tort-r. Alter the .01
wiili General AUaro Obream. relative " ' engage in other taids. 1 he howe er. it was annoan.tvi
that the commission form of govern-,!., the accession of Adolfo de la sia.emen. ....... ,n .u nis ,r.p
Sonora. At the same time Calles' fjl- Funston will direct the mustering in,
lowers are beginning to talk about ft the national guard and also assign
the enmiety existing between de la "'" o such posts as he selects. It
Huerta and Calles. i understood the entire S.000 men
It is rumored in Agua Trieta that dded to his command will be used
the officials of Sonora as whole will to strengthen border patrols and
petition Venustlan'j Carranza. bend of guards. If General Knnsion has been
the Mexican de facto government to awsitinr only additional force, how ,
appoint either Frsnrisie. S. diss or ever, to order new expedition into.
Roberto V. Terqueira civil governor Mexirn after the Glenn Spiins bandits
mH withdraw d la Huerta'a apnoint- li has ample authority to do so as
ment
ment in effect less Ihan t.i years,
has been repudiated and that Robert
M. Speer has been returned to the
otlice of mayor.
I'lioQicial returns from twenty
eight precincts out of 1!)M give Speer
a lead of i:H0 votes. A heavy vote
I was p'llled.
The election was brought about !y
'an initiated petition circulated by the
I Charter League. W. W. Booth alo
was a candidate for mayor. The
Charter League proposition named ..'J
.rnr.
he had
war in the atmosphere of KI Pst..
Prior to the conterence word ment
out thai only one thing t'm'.d bring
a break between the I'nited States
and Mexico complete rewrsai by
General Hhregon ot the a-titu.le he
took at yesM-nla mertvi mith
Generals Stoit an. I Funston. iien
declined t.i sisn the ten;tne a;re
nieni for Mexican troop t-o,perat :on
unless it be modified to set a d'e for
candidate.
Otherwise It is understood, soon as the new forces begin to reach M'lerit an 'unira irom .viexi. o
......... t I. r. At i.tnla M- ill tiln t i Itl (Continued ou Tasp
Ul uic imi inia win irmii. i--
many
