THE ARIZONA
AN
JT U JDJUILU
AN INDEPENDENT PROGRESSIVE JOURNAL
AUvun 8avxr
TWENTY-SIXTH YEAR
10 PAGES
WEDNESDAY MORNING, MAY 10, 191G
10 PAGES
VOL. XXVI., NO. 356
TViT.TrT?nir
ARIZONA NATIONAL GUA
LA
UT FOR BORDER DUTY
Swift Mobilization
Arizona National
of
Guard
on Federal Border Duty
Douglas Designated As Mo
bilizing Point By Gen.
Funs ton, Commanding
Southern Division, In
Charge of Troops
FUR OF H
ALLAYED AFTER
mm CONFER
DOZEN COMPANIES
MOVE THURSDAY
IVace Strength of Regiment
to Be Rushed to Border
At Once; Recruiting to he
Pushed to Bring Up to
War Footing
American and Mexican Con
ferees Agree to Hold An
other Conference On
Border Situation, Probab
lv Sometime Todav
BELIEVE FUN
HAVE ADE
STON
QUATE
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
F.l, I'ASi), Tex.. May 9. Fear of :i
break between the United States anil
Mexico ivt American troop disposi
tion in Mexico was temporarily al
layed tonight when after a three and
TEXT OF SEC. BAKER'S ORDER
MOBILIZING NATIONAL GUARD
Washington, D. C, 10 a. m., May 9.
Hon. George W. P. Hunt,
Governor of Arizona.
Phoenix, Ariz.
Having in view the possibilities of future aggressions upon the territory
of the United States from Mexice and the necessity for proper protection
nf that frontier, the president ha thought proper to exercise the authority
vested in him by the constitution and the laws, and to call out the organ
ized militia necessary for that purpose. I am in consequence instructed by
the president to call into the service of the United States through you, the
oroanized militia of the state of Arizona which tho president directs thall
be concentrated at the places designated by the convmanding general of the ' a h.llf hnlJ. discussion the American
southern department, now at El Paso and which he has been directed to
communicate to you. On the arrival of the organized militia at the desig
nated place of rendezvous they will be mustered into the service of the
United States by officers of the regular army designated for that purpose.
(Signed) NEWTON D. BAKER,
Secretary of War.
"Recruit your regiment up to war
strength immediately," was the
word Adjutant General Harris re
ceived from the war department
at 10 o'clock last night. As was
made plain during the day, it will
be impossible to bring the guard
up to a war footing before mobi
lizing at Douglas, so the peace
strength of 916 men will be as
sembled on the border, beginning
probably Thursday or Friday. Re
cruiting officers will be left in
each city, to receive applications, i
After months of waiting and jirep- j
aration. the Arizona National Guard,
through its commander-in-chief. Gov
ernor Hunt, was ordered yesterday
morning to prepare at once, for ser
vice In the field as a volunteer force !
under the command of the United
States government. The regiment
will probably leave Thursday morn
ing for Douglas.
The governor received a telegram
yesterday morning about eleven
o'clock from Secretary of War New
ton D- Iiaker. stating that the troops
would probably be needed at once
for the protection, ot the Arizona bor
der, and that he should Issue orders
to mobilize the state's forces. The
governor immediately transferred the
order ti Adjutant General Harris wh-i
sent out telegrams to each company
commander, ordering them to gather
their companies ut once.
The companies will not mobilize at
a given point for drill and instruction
for any stated period, but will pro
ceed as soon as Gen. Funston, com
manding the southern department
rails for them. In a statement last
right. Adjutant General Harris said
that he expected the regimen, would
be given the route for Thursday
morning. The northern
LONG RANGE FIGHT TAKES PLAGE
BETWEEN 1EBN S0LDK
ID Bid BANDIT G
VENT RA
NEARLY FIFTY THOUSAND
SOLDIERS If E GOON
SOON TO
FORCE TO
ON BORDE
With 8000 Additional Troops
under Orders for Border
Necessary Steps for Pro
tection Seem to Have
Been Taken
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
MARATHON, Tex., May 9. T-he
two troops of the Kighth cavalry now
moving toward Boquillas on the Kio
Grande are camped tonight at Mil
ler's ranch, seventy miles from here, i the
while the two troops of the Four
teenth cavalry and a machine gun
troop that left the Marathon base
this morning pitched camp 311 miles
south of Henderson's ranch.
They probably will concentrate at
Boquillas, where Colonel F. W. Sib
ley in command will, after a "confer
ence with Major Langhorne determ
ine their disposition. Captain Casper
Cole of the Fourteenth cavalry, who
has been making observation along
the Kio Grande to determine the
whereabouts of Villlsta bandits, came
in tonight from .Hoquillas anil made a
report of his scouting work to Col
onel Sibley.
A long range fight across the Rio
Grande between a detachment of
south side of the Kio Grande. There
were probably five hundred bandits
In all. Captain Cole reported. He said
he was convinced that 'there were
many Mexican sympathizers with
and Mexican conferees agreed to hold
another cont'ei ence. probably tomor
row.
When the conference had gone al
most three hours. General Scott or
dered dinner served in the buffet and
all sat down together.
The interpreter for the conference
was John Y. Hascotn, an employe, of
Mr. McQuatters.
Tonight's conference th'e fifth held, I
begin shortly after five o'clock with
Generals Scott and Funston for the
Cniied States and General Obregon
and Juan Amador, Mexican sub-secretary
of foreign affairs, taking part.
A. J. McQuatters, minlnV man who
has participated in three other con
ference.-! wan present at the begin
ning, but withdrew on complaint of
the Mexican representatives that his
business connections rendered his
presence undesirable.
Ii is understood that General b
reguii again brought no the subject
1 I
BE
no
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
WASHINGTON, May 9 Including
the troops ordered oUt today, there
wiil be nearly 45,0U0 soldiers, perhaps
50,000, along the borfler or in Mexico,
length of time they will be needed can
be made.
General Funston will direct the mus
tering in of the national guardsmen
and also assign them to such posts as
he selects. It is understood the entire
PRESIDENT ALONE
ORDERS MEN OUT
of a d-'finite date for American troop j dent to use the state soldiers either
withdrawal from Mexico. He again I within or without United States ter-
according to the best available figures 8000 men added to his command will
here. The war department has de- be used to strengthen border patrols
dined to publish actual numbers, but and guards. If General Funston has
with the entire mobile army, except been awaiting only additional forces,
five troops of cavalry, under General however, to order a new expedition
Funston's command, in addition to the ' into Mexico after the Glenn Springs
1000 or more guardsmen and the sev- ; bandits, be has ample authority to do
eral thousand recruits who are being i so as soon as the new forces begin to
forwarded to the regular regiments as , reach him
fast as they are mustered in, the
1'nited States has a considerable army
strung out along 1800 miles of the in
ternational line.
Calling out the national guard for
the first time under the present mili
tary law brings up the fact that, as
written, the act authorizes the presi-
Acting On Suggestion from
Funston, Mr. Wilson Di
rects Calling Guard Be
fore He Has Chance to
Consult His Advisors
CALLES SEES KG
NEED OE GUARD
bandits on the American side j was informed, it Is said, that tberitory. The provisions authorizing the
who were co-operating with them. American government Is firm in its use of the guardsmen as such beyond
Captain Cole said: refusal to make this concession. ! lle border was held to be unconstitu-
"I went to Glenn Springs Sunday, It v. as suggented to him that In 1 tional by former Attorney General
and with a detachment of men scout- view of the Pig I'cnd laid, under the Wlckersham. It never has been passed
ed the Rio Grande "carefullv between j nose of C.irrrinzistas the United States , "I'" l,y the supreme court, however.
Hoquillas and San Vicento. I am could .candy consider the ite facto ' Resident Wilson has full legal
convinced that there are no organized j government as fully capable yet of ""'hority to employ the state forces
bodies on the American side of the I roping with the bandits " - i '"'yond the border if he So desires,
river. j In the fact of this statement. Gen- ,lly ttn '"i"-""" against the war de-
"There are organized bodies of ban- .ra. nhr.-L-on w .,,ww,....l ... j l"meni eoum prevent n
dits on the Mexican side operating j asked for more time lo consult with
In several large bodies. At UiJ.ini- the first chief. Venustiano 'arranza.
tas there Is a body of two hundred I 'General Frederick Funston had
Mexicans while another body of two ! planned t,, ,ave here tonight for San
hundred or so illislas
south for Koiiilllas.
'The bodies of only two dead Mex
BEING GALLED
liy the terms of the law, the guards
men must be mustered into the ser
vice of tlie United States before they
come under complete control of the
federal government. Their oaths of
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
DOUGLAS, Ariz.. May 9. General
P. Ellas Calks, military' governor of
Sonora, mi id today that he could see j
the reason for placing additional
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
WASHINGTON, May 9 With
8,000 additional troops under orders
for the Mexican border, including
4.000 national guardsmen from Ari
zona, New Mexico and Texas, admin
istration officials felt tonight that
necessary steps had been taken to
prevent further raiding of American
border towns by bandits.
I'resident Wilson and his cabinet
discussed the Mexican situation to
day but the president had author
ized the new troops orders before his
advisers got there. General Scott
und General Funston recommended
early in the day that additional
forces be sent to the border. After
an exchange of telegrams General
j Funston suggested that the national
I guard from the three states named
! be called out in addition to the send
ing of all the remaining regular in
fantry to join his command. His
suggestion was promptly approved
and orders dispatched.
will come south through Phoenix, the
local companies joining them here,
proceeding to Tucson where the two
companies (here will be picked up,
thence to Douglas.
The first orders to Gov. Hunt did
rot call for the troops being sent into
the field at once. They asked that
the troops be held In readiness for a
call from General Funston, who In
case he reeded them, would order
them to mobolize at 3 point he was
to select. He chose Douglas last night
and wired Governor Hunt to that
effect.
Last night at the armory, there
were about 100 troops under arms.
Equipment had been issued to all of
the men, instructions to report at the
earliest possible moment In the morn
ing were Issued, and the maior por
tion of the men allowed to go home.
A guard was kept to protect the
property, part of the men in this de
tachment slept In the armory, and the
American soldiers and bandits took
place near Hoquillas yesterday after
noon. Captain Cole, reporting the
fight, said be did not think there
was any killed or Injured. Captain
companies fox of tho Texas rangers, believes
IS IlKlMlli; Atili.hin M l..r ... l.lu I......I ........
j. ' ' ' !... i .. enlistment to the vanous states make
... ..... .-,., ,,,, .- v,.,-, ,o Uu. a.cptanc t ,js tcU-nil status
biTgo of the new troop disMosll ions ..i,u,., w. ,
Iran. h I I,-,-.. ..., ...... - .. .. . """'""O. ....r.-.. uiiu ineie in no
, ... .lit I , . : win. me mspairn or OUPStiwl
..i.-A.wii..-, in xih.u mum. I and reirnlar nrmv- men li
;hat several Mexicans were hit.
Captain Cole informed Colonel
Sibley that there were several large
bodies of bandits operating along the
the Glenn Springs raid. There is a ,,. t, ,,,.,
detachment of one cavalry' troop at
Glenn Springs and another at Ter
lingua." There Is every reason to believe
that Texas possemen have forded the
Rio Grande In search for bandits.
Colonel Sibley goes forward tomor
row to Hoiniillas, where he will join
(Continued on I'age Three)
ELEVEN COMPANIES OE COAST
(Continued on Page Four)
ARTILLERY 0 0 III BORDER
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
74th, Savannah;" 31st, Fort Caswell, N.
WASHINGTON, May 9. Eleven ! C; 41st and Cilth, Fort Oglethorpe, Ga.;
companies of coast artillery stationed
at Gulf and Atlantic coast posts were
ordered to San Antonio, Texas, to
night to serve as infantry with the
border patrol.
The coast artillery companies or
dered out are: 127th and ltllth, New
Orleans; 20th and 77th, Pensacola;
Appeal For Cooperation
In Recruiting the Guard
That the National Guard of Arizona is in a crying
need of more men, is being amply demonstrated as the
time draws close for the entraining of the troops for the
border. Col.' Harris and Major 0 mislead last evening
requested that a personal appeal be made to tlie able
bodied men of Phoenix to join the guard, and do their
bit for Arizona. There is a serious need for men, and in
their opinion there are as many patriotic men in Phoe
nix as in other places. Reports from the other towns
in which there are militia companies, state that recruits
ire flocking to headquarters faster than the officers
can take care of them. While enlistments here have
been coming in fairly fast, the officers in charge state
that there is room for practically all who want to an
swer the call of the state for protection. A recruiting
office is open at the armory on North Second avenue.
Chief Musician Albert Etzweiler announces he
needs a few more cornet and clarinet men to bring the
First Regiment Band up to its full strength. He is al
lowed 28 men, and now has 22. Six more musHans
are ne.eded, and applicants may see him or the drum
major at the armory today. The band leaves for the
border to go into garrison with the companies.
of volunteering involved in
1 the present svslem. The full enrolled
After the conference, 'm ,,,11, ,,r i,,,.h im,.nt ,-,.ii.i .....
however, it was announced that he ; s liable for service under penally of
ha 1 piop.ircl his depaitiire. this cir- court-martial action.
urn: t.ince added to the optimism thai ; Army officers believe there will he
pievaiicd following the announcement ' no difficulty in getting out the full
that negotiations would continue. strength. They anticrpate, instead, a
All day today there was a bint of spurt of enlistment in the national
w:t in the atmosphere of F.l Pnso. guard of tlie three states, because of
Pi lor to the conference the word went ; the chance for active service.
The regiments now
frankly pessimistic after the meet
ing over the delay of General Obre-
p",,n in i-n.ifvincT tlm irrMimont tie
troops o .he Texas lHirder. but there jneKoUated with Genera, Scou cov.
is none for cal .ng the mihtia to the co-operative border operations
Arizona-New Mexico border. , , ,. ... . r. , , ..
I Including those of General Pershing s
The Mexican government has i vi(i nr v mi
City indicated that the agreement has
been approved by General Carranza
and officials here are at a loss to un
derstand Obregon's action.
plentv of troops in Sonora and west
em Chihuahua to prevent any raiders
from crossing the border," said Gen
eral Calles. "
"If they crossed the border 5nto
cither slate they could not possibly
The majority of the president's ad
visers believed the agreement finally
escape; they would be captured, rhey woulJ be ratified and that the bor.
could rest assured before their cap-j dcr sitllation would clear itself
ture that death awaited them.''
quickly thereafter. It wag clearly in-
"I do not believe that the raiders '
in T.xas were Villa's men. I think;
that tl-ey viere hired by the Cientifico , nf ,h Washine-ton covernment:
partv or the interventionists to stir up I that the trooDS would stay in Mexico
timated in all quarters, however, that
I there would be no change in the pol-
(Contlnued on Page Three)
at
Disposition of
Troops Ordered
in T-lnvAnv ll:ir,,sm'h' "' relation to the state
IU LlHi JDUt Lift i from which they came is that the gov-
strength. I nder the interpretation
placed on the law, the states are re
quired to recruit them immediately to
full war strength, and to send the re
cruits forward as fast as they are
sworn in.
While in the federal service, the
. sentiment in the United States and
peace! hiing :bort a crisis."
112th, Delaware River; 4th, Dupont,
Del., and 103d from Fort Howard, Md.
Kecretary Bak"er said these orders
did not result from any new reports
from the border, but wi re contemplated
in the decision early in the day to re
inforce General Funston's patrol.
Secretary liaker announced the de
cision to draw upon the coast artillery,
virtually the only available regular
troops left north of the border, after
a conference at the war department
late tonight. He said the eleven com
panies would be drawn from all along
the coast, from Galveston to Delaware,
so that no post would be left without
a sufficient garrison.
The secretary also formally an
nounced the orders for the movement
to San Antonio of the five batteries of
the 5th field artillery at Fort Sill, Okla.
He said three batteries of the 3rd field
artillery at Tohyhanna, Pa., had been
ordered held In readiness for border
service if necessary.
Republican A. P. Leased Wire!
KI, PASO. May 9. Following is the
preliminary disposition of troops or
dered to tho border.
ernor retains the power to appoint of
ficers, and that the state is required to
keep up the strength of the regiments
I against camjiaign wastage. The fight
ing organization is loaned complete to
' the irovernment for Kiwh limn .m it la
P.eginn iital headquarters and on' jn.p,,,,
l.Mtnlion of the Twenty-first infantry,! i.refli'Jent Wilson specified no time
to Yuma, Ariz. of service in his call. The law author-
Two comp.-.ries of the Twelfth in-j izPS niln t ,lo ,,ut l(M,s I1(lt make
fantry now at Yuma, to rejoin the it ,nundatorv. The situation on the
regiment a; .Nogales. , border is such that no forecast of the i
line battalion of the Twenty-first
Infantry to Nogales.
Regimental headquarters and two
battalions of the Fourteenth infantry
to Douglas.
Third infantry from various points
in New York state to Kagle Pass.
Thirtieth infantry from Plattsburg,
N. Y.. to P.io Grande City.
F.leven companies of coast artillery
equipped as infantry to Fort Sam
Ibuston for distribution along the.
Texas border.
Three batteries of tho Third fieU
artillery to Fort Sam Houston for dis
tribution. Texas militia to Fort Sam Houston.
New Mexico militia to Columbus.
Ari'ona militia to louglas.
A new and mysterious troop move
ment is under way in northeastern
Sonora, according to American ar
rivals from the south. The de facto
troops, which have been mobilized
pear the Chihuahua border, are said
to be marching west, gathering at Cu
chuta ranch, on the Nacozari railroad,
;'.r. miles south of Iouglas.
Colonel I.azaro Cardenas, a the head
of approximately 1SO0 cavalrymen, is
reported to have arrived there.
There is also a large infantry' de
tachment at Fronteras, on the Naco
zari railrond, 29 "miles south.
General Calles, who returned to
Agua Prieta. Monday, is reticent about
bis trip to F.l I'aso. and his conference
with General Alvaro Obregon relative
(Continued on Page Three)
uu I
i
a; says
IS TIME FOR IITEBTI
Republican A. P. Leased Wire 1 administration: as one who has meas-
Al'STlN, Tex.. May 9. Governor I ured his word and is now mindful of
.Tames K. Ferguson of Texas on his the position here announced end its
Mrs. Deemer Promises To
Avenge Death of Husband
I., .i
Republican A. P. Leased Wire I resident of Boquillas for ;t years and
SAN DIEGO, Cal., May 9. Vole-J was well known among the Mexicans
ing her determination to avenge the In that district. About two years ago
murder of her husband, Mrs. Jose 'a Mexican named Pantelon Variol
Deemer, wife of John Deemer who was arrested at Fioquillas on a charge
was killed by Mexican bandits In the 'of murder and my-husband who was
recent raid on Glenn Springs and
lioqtifllas, Tex., left here today in a
high powered automobile for the
scene of the bandits' outrage. She
was accompanied by her son, Dixon,
of Ixw Angeles.
"I received a telegram last night
saying my husband had been. killed
by Mexican outlaws," said Mrs.
Deemer today, "and I determined to
leave Immediately for Hoquillas to In
vestigate as well as look after our
property there. My husband was a
Justice of the peace, tried the case
A certain Jawless element refused to
testify against Variol and he was
given his freedom. Despite this he
told my husband that some day he
would kill him and I believe he Is
one of the bandits who raided the
two towns.
"As soon as I and my son get to
Hoquillas I intend to hire a number l
of rangers and guides and get this
Mexican. I have many friends on the
Mexican side who will assist me."
return to Austin tonight issued a
igned statement in which he declared
that now war, the proper time for
C ni ted States intervention in Mexico
to restore order in that country "if it
takes ten or fifty years."
The statement Fays in part:
, "Since we have started, we may as
well finish the Job. A temporary pro
tection of the border will accomplish I
nothing. If we catch and punish one
bandit here, another takes his place
tomorrow. If a ruler la put in power
today he is betrayed tomorrow, loy
alty to any loader is lacking and pat
riotism is unknown. The ruthless
spilling of American blood on Ameri
can soil now gives us Justificaticn and
it is now our duty to do whatever is
necessary permanently to prevent a
recurrence of further outrages against
our people.
"Millions of starving people in Mex
ico ciy for food and protection fronj
the assassin bands. As one who h:
hoped against hope that a ruler might
arisf to restore peace in Mexico; as
one who has viewed the Mexican peo
ple for a lifetime, and as one who
consequences, I have come reluctantly
to the conclusion that it is now the
solemn duly of the United States to
enter Mexico and assume control of
that unfortunate country and give to
the Mexican people that stability of
government which they are now un
able and helpless to establish wheth
er it ti.kes ten or fifty years to do it. '
To do less will be shirk our duty to
our national honor and our duty to
the Mexican people."
until the border was safe from in
cursions; that raiders would be pur
sued over the line every time they
became active and that the whole
strength of the national guard would
be used if necessary.
Secretary Baker said the question
of calling guardsmen from other
states into the service was not under
immediate consideration. It was
learned, however, that General Fun
stun already had been supplied with
all papers, forms and instructions
necessary to muster into service the
guardsmen of all states near the bor
der, and that ordinance and quarter
master stores to outfit all such troops
on a lull war basis are held at con
venient points for quick distribution.
Mr. Haker refused to discuss re
ports that General Funston had urged
that he be given a total of 130.0(10
men to maintain the boraer guard.
It is possible that the border com
mand demanded that figure as tne
number of men he thought necessari
to injure protection of all border
towns and ranches by providing an
adequate guard for each.
The secretary said General Persh
ing's force in Mexico was able to
take care of itself in any emergency.
Eliseo Arredondo Mexican ambassador-designate,
took to the state de
partment a written state of the in
formation upon which he bases
charges that the Glenn Springs raid
was planned and possibly carried
out from the American side of the
line. .Because of this he presented
a request that the United States take
additional precautions on its own
side of the boundary. The ambassa
dor was informed that , additional
troops had already been sent and
more would follow if they should be
needed. He expressed his satisfac-
, tion at the steps taken and form-
continued on Page Two)
Guarding Against Mexican
Uprising Set for Today
has studied their ways and customs;
as one who has endorsed and now
endorses the policy of the present
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
SAN ANTONIO, Tex.. May 9. Mili
tary authorities have taken . precau
tions to guard against a general Mex
ican uprising along the border which
is said to be set for tomorrow, May 10.
Civil and military officials of the
government have been working on the
case for some time. Investigation
are said to have shown that numer
ous prominent Mexicans on this side
of the border are involved in tho plot.
The San Antonio situation is
thought to be well in hand and no
trouble is anticipated here. It is tha
belief of officers that if any activity
develops in connection with the re
ported uprising It will be confined to
.he immediate border country. Amer
ican troops in the border sections, it
Is said, have sufficient strength to
put down any disturbances.
!
