THIS PAPER issued in
Two 8ections Section
two—Pages 1 to 8—l.o
cal news, stories, corre
spondence and Denison
locals.
VOL. 51
THINKS POSTS
SHOULD MOVE
Commercial Club at Friday Night
Meeting Recommends Removal of
Posts From Paved Streets
TALK OF A NEW TIE BARN HERE
Club to Co-Operate wlthj G. A. R., S. of
V. and W. R. C. for Proper Ob
servance of Memorinl Day.
At the meeting of the commercial
flub held last Friday evening a reso
lution was passed requesting that the
oily council abolish the hitching posts
en the paved streets and that all of
llie present hitching posts be removed
before the streets are paved. The
hitching post problem has been con
fronting Denison for some time and
everyone seems glad that the matter
has finally been settled. The busi
ness men present 'at the Friday eve
ning meeting were not in favor of re
moving the posts from the streets to
be paved unless arrangements were
made for other posts on nearby streets
so that the farmers coming to Deni
son need not be inconvenienced but
tiiis matter was easily disposed of
when it was announced that Mr. P. T.
Flynn was contemplating the erection
of a tie barn on his lots just east of
the Herman Methodist church. How
ever, hitching posts will be located on
side streets for use until the new tie
barn is erected.
It is a well known fact that the
hitching post is a tiling of the past
and even many of the smallest towns
in the state have abolished this evil.
It is said that Manning is without
hitching posts and the people driving
to that town are more then glad to
put their teams in a tie barn where
a nominal charge is made for their
care. We do not know of a town in the
state that has hitching posts on paved
streets.
Prof. Jacob Johnson, of the high
school faculty addressed the members
or the club and told tiie purpose of
holding an annual field meet in Deni
son and asked that the commercial
club donate something toward purchas
ing a silver loving cup and medals
lor the winners. The members of the
club were so impressed with the plan
that they voted to donate $25 for the
trophies.
The matter of observance of Me
morial day was brought up for dis
cussion and those present were of the
opinion that the business men should
assist in every way possible to honor
the veterans of the civil war. The
eh'b has decided to make an effort
to have every business house in tiic
I
city close at noon on Memorial Day
so that business men and clerks may
attend tiie services at the cemetery.
Heretofore it. has been the custom to
hold services at the cemetery in the
forenoon and in tiie afternoon a pro
gram lias been carried out at tiie opera
house. This year there are to be no
exercises in tiie forenoon, but tiie en
tire afternoon will be devoted to the
observance of the day.
Clement J. Welch, chairman of tiie
civic committee, who had charge of
clean-up week made a report on the
campaign which was of so much val
ue to Denison. Tiie reading of this re
port brought a general discussion of 'on
ditions in the business district and
the club finally recommended that tiie
city council take some action to have
ash boxes, signs and other unsightly
relics of antiquity removed from tiie
business streets.
Some few weeks ago an effort was
made by the commercial club to have
the train service on the lloyer Valley
branch of the Northwestern restored
as well as to have No. 13, the Hawke.vo
express going west on the main line
at 10:05 p. m.. stop at Dow City. Mr.
Lyon, the president of the club, who
sent in the petition to the proper offi
cials of the road, reported that there
were no hopes of having either request
granted. The superintendent of the I
Sioux City division reported that the
trains which were taken off of thei
Boyer Valley branch had been operated I
at a loss and that the receipts from
these two trains had not been enough
to pay tiie engineer and fireman. The
superintendent of the Boone division
visited Denison recently and stated
that No. 18, has such a fast schedule
that it would be out of the question to
have it make another stop not already
scheduled. There is. however, some
liklihood that a through train will be
put on in the near future from Deni
son to Sioux City which will leave
Denison shortly after S:00 o'clock
and will return in the evening.
This train is ow made up at Carroll
and runs via Wall Lake to Sioux City,
returning in the evening. By running
this train out of Denison the service
here would be partially restored and
would give Denison a Sunday train to
Lake View, something that has been
needed tor a long time.
Nothing definite lias been decided,
however, in regard to this service as
it' will have to come through tiie gen
eral olliees at Sioux City, but we are
told the superintendent of the Sioux
City division has recommended the
change and there is everv reason to
believe that it will be forthcoming.
The troubadours, accompanied oy
Laska 151ray, reader, who appeared in
concert at the chapel of the Denison
Normal and Business college Wednes
day evening, were greeted by a good
pized audience and rendered a pleas
ing and entertaining program.
Economy
The Chautauqua, Trim and Serviceable
This smartly tailored tub skirt may be had in gabar­
dine or polo clotli. Plain, circular gored style two di­
agonal pockets with button-trimmed (laps. Wooltex-
shrunk materials and waist band. No. 6710
$3.00
Numerous dozens of pieces of wash goods will be
placed on sale Thursday, Friday and Saturday. These
are bright new fabrics at exceptionally low prices. In
cluded in this lot are tub silks, marquisettes, floral and
silk poplins, rice voiles in barred patterns.
ilkfegi
$22.50 to $25.00 Soils at $14.85
In this lot you will find suits of the sport type,
dressy enough to use for general wear. They are
made up infserges, gabardines, and in all the sea
son's new shades. We would advise you to look
over this assortment of spring and summer suits
which go into this sale at
$14.85
CONVENTIONS
WELL ATTENDED
Republican and Democratic Conven
tions Held Saturday to Select Del
egates to State Convention.
LOVE FEAST FOR
Democrats Adopted Several Resolu
lotions but Failed to Indorse
President Wilson.
egates at large will be selected to at
tend the national republican conven
tion to be held early in June in Chi
cago.
The convention was called to order
at 11 o'clock in the forenoon and on
motion K. M. Kogli, of Manilla, was,
elected chairman and A. F. iiarher. of!
Charter Oak, secretary of the conven
tion. Practically every township in
tiie county was represented and on
motion a committee from each pre
cinct was selected to name a li?t ofj
delegates to,attend the state conven-i
Charter Oak Swan Johnson, of Deni-1
Holdsworth, of Manilla.
The convention was indeed a most
and if it expects to succeed it must
put forth a united front.
A list of eighteen delegates was se
lected and authorized to cast the vote
of rtie county, which would mean if
the delegates attended, a one-half vote
for each delegate. Inasmuch as there
will not probably be in excess of nine
delegates from the county at the con
vention,'there will be little trouble in
delivering the vote because the dele
gates present are instructed to cast the
full vote of the county.
During the time the convention was
in session different candidates were
called upon to address the convention.
The Pinehurst, in Variety of Fabrics
In Wooltex-sKrunk fancy pique, pure linen or gabar­
dine. Exceptionally fashionable model with front and
back panels, and scalloped yoke each side. No. 6450
at prices ranging from $8 50 down to
$5.25
Tub Silks, 32-inch widths. 100 yards to offer in 8
different patterns. Regular $
1.50 value priced for this
week only at 98c a yard.
,...'ifri aif'M
THE DENISON REVIEW
THIS WEEK'S NEWS THIS WEEK\ NOT NEXT WEEK.
DENISON, IOWA, WEDNESDAY, MAY, 10, 1916.
Mr. P. J. Klinker deliverpd a short ad
dress in which he pointed out some of
the general policies of tiie republican
party that had been applied in tiie
past with great benefit to all the peo
ple. Mr. Kahler spoke briefly about
iiis desire to see a united party and
expressed the belief that victory in
this county was insured to the repub
licans. Mr. Kuelmle made soinetliinj.'.
more of an extended address, devoting
time enough to the issues to give a
REPUBLICANS! -'loar exposition on the policies of the
republican party. His candidacy for
governor received tiie hearty endors"
tnent of every delegate present which
was evidenced by ttie enthusiastic
reception accorded him by the conven
tion. It is expected that the delegates
to the state convention at Cedar llap
ds will make every effort to advance
The republican county convention,
held on Saturday last, was called for
tiie purpose ot selecting delegates toj^.j, ..,lujj(]ai.v f01. the position of gov
attend tii(! state convention where de-'
a W
me»w.
son B. G. Dannatt. of We-st Side: I J"*
Jacob llusterliolz, of Denison: J. P.
Conner, C. F. ...lehnle, P. .J. Klinker,
ford county is pran.i of
01
merjt and U)e reeords which they haV(
harmonious aftair, there not being a ..
single discordant note to mar the Democratic ConvAt.on.
party harmony. We had some trouble ntiule for themselves speak volumes
four years ago when'a division existed in their 'avor. It is a compliment to
in the party, but republicans have
learned a great deal since and one
tiling is that in union there is strength
any political party to have such good
material to draw from as the republi
can party of this county lias this year., .,
The democratic county convention
(Continued on Page Two.)
Offering Women's Suits, Coats and Dresses at a Saving of practically 50 per cent on each Purchase
$29.00 to 39.50 Suits at $22.50
This is a potable collection of suits in beautiful
fabrics and clever models. There is individuality
in each garment shown. The materials are the
most stunning. The fashions are the cleverest of
the /ay, and the workmanship may be termed
perfect. Price
$22.50
AH women's coats, no matter what the former price was, offered specially this week at one-fourth off
Wooltex-Shrunk and Wooltex-Tailored Wash
Wash Fabrics, Silks, Etc., Specially Priced for This Week
GEORGEQMENAGH & COMPANY DENISON, IOWA
.'liVTI
COMMENCEMENT
WEEK MAY 25
Thirty-Four Students to
the fact that it lias a candidate of real
merit to present for tiie office of gov
ernor. a candidate wiio has made for
himself a record in business and along among the school children, but by all
other lines that qualify him in an
em-jof
We. have not space enough in this
May. The delegates
George Gunn, of Hreda: H. White..
of Vail J. H. Hoaglund. of Kiron the several offices, hut later
Hugo Krohnke, of Schleswig: Cus1' will Rive full particu ars ot he
Rabe. of Ricketts I. A Mains, of.
were-I issue of the paper to give anything in!"1.*
selected werc.i(i^ Fisher. Aitred aul
the nature of a writeup of the candi
the several candidates !I he
,riy !S
^ceptionally fortunate in lriv-
I the different offices and men whose
election to office will guarantee a huh
W. 15. Kahler. of Denison: F. li. Shirt- of public service Both Mr.
cliff, or Charter Oak W. K. Fishel. of fhman for county^ recorder and Mr.
Dow City L. L. Huffman, of Vail: R.IW«nge. ot Charter Oak, for treasurer.
C. Saunders, of Manilla, and George Pln^d their nomination papers on file
on Saturday last
men belong
llIuv
to select delegates to the state con-, ...
vention was called to order at 11
^"5
Graduate
From
Denison High School—May 21-27
Week of Festivities.
BACCALAUREATE SERMON 21ST
Dr. W. C. Wilcox, of Staile University,
to'Deliver Address to Graduates
—Helsley to Present Diplomas
The week of May 21-27 will be de
voted to the commencement exercises
Imhlice
Imy.a
Cl
J'
llas
cured to deliver the address. Dr. Wil-
eox
delivered the address last year to
tiie graduating class of tiie'Denison
Normal and Business college and he
made such a favorable impression on
the people of Denison that he was in
vited to address tiie graduates of the
jliigh school this year. He will have a
impart and everyone
o'clock in the court room on last Sat
urday. J. W. Monaghan called the
convention to order. Mr. Nick Voller
son was made permanent chairman of
the convention and 15. H. Swasey, of
Dow City secretary. A motion was, ^ti_
made that the-chairnftir appomt a t'O^ ^ouVi" arrange to-ntfend this feature
mittee of three on resolutions. The arrange to-ru.enct tnis '®a|-ure
committee consisted of Maurice O'Con
ot
nor, of Vail: Richard Harvey, of Deni
son township, and Theodore Rohwer.
of Schleswig. One delegate from each
commencement week. Mr. Albert
Helsley, president of the school board,
will present the diplomas to tiie grad
uates.
On Friday evening members of tiie
senior class will present "The Maneuv-
Week In Ready-to-Wear
The Charlevoix, Simple, Attractive Model
A splendid example of the high character of Wooltex
tailoring. Has panel back and front, with full rippled
flare. Over each hip is three-tiered yoke connecting
front and back panels. A vfery attractive style designed
by the famous Wooltex designers. In Wooltex-shrunk
plain or striped cotton gabardine, or honeycomb cloth
in the newest patterns. No. 6460 in some cloths at $4
in others at
$3.85
Marquisettes, 24-inch width. Plain and floral patterns
priced at 33c a yard.
Silk Pongees with satin stripe. Priced at $
1. 19 a yard.
ei's of .lane" at the Germania opera
house, commencing promptly at 8:15
o'clock. Those who take part in the
play have been working on it for the
past month or two and we understand
that, it will be one of the best enter
tainments ever produced hv a Deni
son graduating class.
The date for the annual alumni ban
quet lias not been set yet. but doubtless
this will be held on Saturday evening:.
COUNTY PAYS MANY BOUNTIES.
$112 Paid Out for Wolf Scalps by
County Auditor Portz During
Week—Gopher Bounties $233.
Few people realize tiie amount of
money paid out by Crawford county
of the Denison high school and already for wolf and gopher bounties, and if
the arrangements for tiie different en
tertainments have been completed.
Commencement week is always looked
forward to with interest, not only
the citizens of Denison and this
inent degree for tiie otlice of governor, year there are many treats in store.
Mr. Lehman, of Schleswig, who is a all probability there will be thir
candidate for recorder of this county.
and will he nominated in June for this
rllice, ,\vas present and made a few,
pleasing remarks to the convention! graduating class is made up ot the fol
and thanked them for calling upon liini lowing: Helen Aebischer. Hernice
to address the convention. I Uoslaugli. Karl IJaum, Krma lieu tel.
ty-for.r members in the graduating
class, that is if they are all able to
pass tiie necessary examinations. The
Joseph Collins, Ktliel Chamberlin,
Uva Fishel, John
diss, Roy Gebert, Krma Johnson. Har
riett llovr-r.
Jones, Martha Ka-
dock, Harold Laub, John Xorris, Will
iam McHenry. ICrma Xorelius, Vera
Xorris. Lydia Otto, Harold Poole, Vera
Poole, Margaret Pearson, Winifred
Patrick. Ruth Swasey. Blanch Smith
Ruth Tucker. Kinogene Welch and
Marguerite Zorin.
The baccalaureate sermon will be
delivered by Rev. J. C. Tourtellot on
These two young! Sunday evening. May 21st, probably
to families of exceptional I
a
the Presbyterian church.
The commencement exercises prop
er will be held on Thursday evening
May 2i3th, at the Germania opera
house, at which time tiie commence
ment address will be delivered and the
graduates will be given their,diplomas.
Dr. W. C. Wilcox, of the Iowa State
all of tiie counties of the state are put
to tiie same expense as this county in
this one department there is no won
der that the people complain of the
cost of running the county govern
ment. On last Saturday Auditor P. J.
Portz paid out $233 alone for gopher
bounties, the claws being turned in
during the day. During the past week
$112 has been paid over to residents
of this county for wolf scalps. It
would seem that the supply of wolves
land gophers would soon run out at
the rate they are being turned in to
the county for bounties, but each year
it seems to cost the county more than
the year previous. Auditor Portz esti
mates that it costs Crawford county
in the neighborhood of $3,000 annually
for the Soulier bounties.
Tiie following bounties for wolf
scalps were paid out by Auditor Portz
during the past week:
May 5th. Ira Brundidge, of Union
township, four cub wolf scalps. $10.
May 6tli. David Clark, of Union
township, five cub wolf scalps, $20.
May Stii. N. Kttleman, of Boyer town
ship. five cub wolf scalps. $20.
Harlo Chapman, of Fast Bover town
ship. one adult and seven cub wolf
scalps. $48.
May !)th, John Hoist. Jr., of Paradise
township, two cub wolf scalps, $S.
$19.50 to 22.50 Dresses at $12.50
This is a special group at a special price. They
are shown in taffetas, crepe de chines and Geor
gette crepes combined with plain and striped silks
in all the new spring colors. The styles are up
to-the-minute, and the materials are as dependable
in quality as the dresses are in fashion. Priced at
$12.50
The post office department is now
enforcing the requirement that every
clerk and the assistant postmaster in
the second class offices must pass an
examination on the offices in his half of
the state, being able to tell the means
of supply of mail to even the smallest
town. All the clerks In the Denison
office and the assistant postmaster
passed satisfactorily when the chief'ter which interment will be made in
clerk from Sioux City. Mr. Huni-fthe Hanover township cemetery.
piirey. called at tiie office for the The Review joins the many friends
in extending heartfelt sympathy to the,
examination. The force is now ma le
up of A. C. McMinimee. Alexander
Aebischer, Malcolm Heiden. clerk:?,
and Ciias. K. Meyers, assistant post
mast e.-.
Skirts
A Smart New Outing Skirt
If you know of any
news kindly hand or
phone the Review News
department.
No. 19
SUDDEN DEATH OF
JURGEN PETERSEN
Jurgen Peterson, Highly Respected
German Citizen, Died at His
Home in Denison Monday.
FUNERAL TO BE HELD TOMORROW
Lived on Farm in Hanother Township
N for Almost Thirty Years—Leaves
Widow and Seven Children
Air. Jurgen Peterson one of tho
most prominent German citizens
this community, died at his home on
Treniont street Monday morning, tiie
result of a stroke of apoplexy. Mr.
Peterson arose seemingly in his usual
good health, but while eating break
fast he suffered the stroke and passed
away before a physician could be sum
moned.
Jurgen Peter Peterson was born on
June 10, 1S53, at Starrum, Schleswig
Holstein. Germany, where he resided
until seventeen years of age. In 1870
he came to America, locating in Cliu
ton county, Iown wiiere he lived fbr
seven years. He moved to Crawford
county in 1877 and in that year was
united in marriage to Miss Adeline
Lorenzen. This union was blessed with
eleven children, seven of whom are
left to mourn the death of their fath
er namely: Asmus, .Peter, Christ. Aug
ust. Etnil, Amelia and Marie. In addi
tion to his wife and children he leaves
two brothers, Asmus Peterson, resid
ing in Minnesota, and Carl Peterson,
who is serving in the United States
army: two sisters. Mrs. Alma Olson,
a resident of Wall Lake, and Mrs. Ma
rie Brenner living in Russia.
Mr. Peterson lived on a farm in
Hanover township for almost forty
years, at the end of which time by his
thrift and industry he had accumulat
ed enough to retire from active work
and earlier in the year had purchased
the home on Tremont street where he
had expected to spend the declining
years of his life in happiness with his
tamily. He was an upright, industri
ous man. held in high esteem by every
one in the community and his sudden
death was sorely felt by his many
friends.
Funeral services will be held on
Thursday, May 11th, with short serv
ices at 12:30 o'clock at the home and
at the German Lutheran church at 1
o'clock. Rev. Wm. Frese officiating, at
bereaved family.
Attorney Leon Powers visited his
parents near Ft. Dodge over Sunday.
I
A Wooltex-tailored model. In black and white tennis
cloth it is remarkably pretty, with large pearl buttons
down front, diagonal buttoned pockets and shaped belt.
It is No. 6480. In pique or gabardine at $5 to $7.50 in
striped tennis cloth at
$7.50
New Silk Poplins, 36-inch width. In satin stripe and
floral designs. Priced at $1.69 a yard.
Extra Heavy Reversible Crepe de Chine. All silk, 40
inch width. All shades—reseda green, navy, lavender,
old rose, black and white. Priced for Thursday, Friday
and Saturday only at $1.39 a yard.
