Crossville Chronicle.
THK ENNE88EE TIMII I . CONSOLIDATED
OHOSSVILLK OHRONIOLi I J 1896
VOL. XXX. CROSSVILLE. TENNESSEE. WEDNESDAY. MAY 10. 1916. NO. 19
HOW VERDUN WAS SAVED.
Wondertul Organization and Equipment
Thai Were Used to Furnish Sup
plies and Men.
Primai ily Verdun was saved by the
courage ind devotion of the tirst-line
troops, who held the trenches when the
attack began. They performed their
full duty ; they held the line until the
reserved came up. They did precisely
what the German troops had done in
Champagne last fall and with approxi
mate the same losses and with cour
age am. devotion which will remain
memorabl j.
But nit defending of the Verdun sec
tor was made possible oy the prepara
tion tiiai iiad actually been made long
months oeiore. The civil authorities,
asked b toe military, to supply a new
railruau, i.ad failed miserably.
As 1 puu.iHd out earlier, there was
only tne .-ingle-track, narrow gauge
line, wniUi in point of fact was used
almost exclusively to evacuate wound
ed, but tftcie was the motor transport
and this wan the miracle of Verdun.
Montua nefore, the military authori
ties, recoil. izing the dangerous posi
tion ot the Verdun salient, reconstruct
ed the one great highway running
north froui St. Dizier and Bar-le-Duc
to Verdun. The existing highway was
doDbled, trebled in width, proper turn
outs were made and Verdun was bound
to France uy a magnificent road going
north beyond the range of the German
artillery all the way to the outskirts
of the city itselt.
In addition, General Herr, who com
manded the sector, had worked out an
intricate and marvelous syatem of mo
tor transport.
When the blow fell it was only nec-
bilized and put into operation, travel-;
ing with all the regularity of express j
trains, was to realize that the Germans j
were not the onlv rmraple-pnmnpllpra !
and that France, in her own way, was
also working miracles.
For this system 1 was told that Gen
eral Herr was responsible. When the
attack began Herr commanded at Verdun.
Almost overnight he was replaced by
Pertain, but more than one officer
spoke to me of 'the manner in which
the old commander turned over his
army and became a mere superintend
ent of traffic, resigned the glorious for
the useful, and made room tor one his
junior in service and in rank.
For myself I shall remember nothing
of all that l saw at Verdun longer than
this stream ot motor transports, this
interminable procession flowing on at
an unvarying rate of perhaps twelve
miles an hour, the tide which made it
possible for the men who defended
Verdun to hold their ground and finally
to match artillery with artillery and
numbers with numbers. From "The
Battle for Verdun as France Saw It, "
by Frank H. Sinionds, in the American
Review of Reviews for May, 1916.
HOOPER AND OVERALL
Republican Convention Sends Unin
structed Delegation of Eight to
Chicago Woman's Suffrage
Plank in Platform.
FAIR COMMITTEE MEETS
Mass Meeting Called for First Monday
in June to Form Stock Company.
Five membP's of the Cumberland
County Fair A. ociation met Saturday
and discussed t. a question of holding a
fair this fall, j ie opinion was unani
mous that a jjfef should be held and
that in view oi ,).ist experience it could
be done succe. u.iy.
Those presetu President Harry
Martin, Vlce-F"rnt S. C. Bishop,
Secretary Jere ' Mnuw, R. K. Punbar
essary to mobolize the motor-trucks, land 0 P. Burnett
and in an incredibly short time thous
ands and thcusands of these trucks
were in operation.
Coming north as 1 did from St. Dizier
to Verdun for more than fifty miles the
road was a continuous line of trucks.
Over almost the whole distance they
were marching in single file with
scarcely a break in the procession.
Going up heavy laden, they passed
through the region behind the front,
discharged their contents at the ap
pointed place, and returned empty by
smaller side roads.
On all the course I never saw a block
or a delay. Rarely, very rarely, a
camion was upset or broke down and
was turned t the side of the road and
temporarily abandoned.
An every village there were repair
stations, but day and night steadily,
fairly rapidly, this endless chain ot
motor trucks filed past, bringing men,
munitions, supplies.
By this method perhaps a quarter of I
a million men were brought fresh to !
the firing line;
heavy and light,
On motion and second it was ordered
that a mass meeting be held in the
court house, Mondaj, June 5, at noon,
for the purpose ot seeing what can
be done towards organizing a stock
company with a capitalization of $3,000
to $5,000.
Citizens ot other counties are invited
to meet with us at that time and the
good people ot (Jlitty are especially
urged to join with us in the movement.
There never has been a time when
conditions were so f avorable for the
successful launching ot a Fair Company
as at this time. There is a tract of
ground near town that is thought to be
available and that it is felt can be pro
cured for a reasonable price. Presi
dent Harry Martin reported that there
is a little over $100 now in the fair
treasury, left from last year.
Nothing that can be done by our peo
ple will prove so helpful to this section
as such a fair as our people are capable I
of providing. Cumberland county has
j little to fear from the live stock or
innumerable guns, farm products ot other counties as the
were kept supplied ! raP'd increase in blooded live stock
Not for many years has there been
a more harmonious republican convan
tion held in this state than the one that
convened in Nashville last Wednesday.
The feeling was general that all would
gladly join in electing any man the
natinal convention may select, be he
Hughes, Roosevelt or any other able
republican.
Nominations were made as follows :
United States Senator Ex-Governor
Ben W. Hopoer.
GovernorJohn W. Overall.
Railroad Commissioner Terry Aber-
nathy.
Pesidential Electors, state at large
Alf A. Taylor and Arch Hughes.
Delegates at Large to the National
Convention Newell Sanders, H. Clay
Evans, J. S. Beasley, R. W. Austin.
On condition that the national conven
tion will allow eight delegates, F. S.
Elgin, J. C. R. McCall, R. R. Church
and D. C. bwab will also act as dele
gates, otherwise they will sit as alter
nates. J. Will Taylor, at one time Gov.
Hooper's private secretary, later the
Governor's chief fire marshal, and at
all times his confidential friend and
adviser, was elected chairman ot the
state committee.
Former Gov. Ben W. Hooper was
clearly the most popular man in the
convention. He made one of his char
acteristically stro'ng speeches and en
thused the audience to a high pitch.
Jesse Littleton was there from Chat
tanooga and joined half henrtedly in
the decisions reached. He has been out
of the party for several years because
of his whiskey sentiments and even
now as he comes back to join with the
anti-whiskey party, it is known he has
met with no chai ge ot heart and for
that reason received no marked favors.
Congressman Austin and Sells were
both there and were enthusiastically
for Hooper for the senate and indica
tions are that he will receive a strong
vote in East Tennessee this time.
An uninstructed delegation was sent
to Chicago. A plank was adopted in
the platform declaring for Woman's
Suffrage. We are glad to say the
Cumberland county delegation voted
for it. The measure carried by a big
majority.
ELECTRIC LI6HTS.
W, L Reagan Here Working Up the
Enterprise and Will Return Soon
to Decide the Matter.
VV. L. Reagan, of Jamestown, was
here Monday and yesterday talking
with our people about installing an
electric light plant in Crossville.
The company represented by Mr.
Reagan are willing to put in the plant
so soon as our people pledge themselv
es to take 500 22-candle power lights.
While here over 100 lights were signed
for and very few of our people were
seen. Indications point very strongly
to the enterprise being a go.
Mr. Reagan could not remain longer
to push the matter as business at other
points demanded his attention. He
will return in a week or ten days and
tne matter will be taken up with our
people in such a way that an electric
light plant will either be installed or
the proposition turned down.
One thing is very certain: Cross
ville will never be what it should and
can be until electric lights are install
ed. It is equally certain that the time
is not far distant when we will reach
it. One of the great power lines tra
versing this section of the state is al
most sure to make Crossville an objec
tive point within a few yaers and that
will not only mean lights but power as
well. Nothing a town can do makes so
much for the general improvement and
appearance, as well as convenience,
as electric lights. Electricity is the
only real light, all others are make
shifts, and our people will not much
longer put up with the makeshift in
one of the most important things that
makes for comfort and progress, when
it can be obtained with so small an out
lay as is now necessary.
INTEREST IS GROWING
Several Ladies Are Working for tfi6 Bo
nus Votes and Others for the Ko
daksTwo Special Prizes in
Each of the District.
HIGHWAY WORK BEGINS.
Five Teams and a Few Men
Moving Dirt Monday Morning,
NEWSPAPERS CONSOLIDATE.
with ammunition ; armies were ration
ed ; the whole intricate and enormous
domestic economy of a great modern
army was handled without friction or
disorder.
In the cities, such as Bar-le-Duc, the
squares and the turns were marked by
.. ' i ' t r .
signs, telling tne roaa to veraun.
throughout this section has provided us
with a superior grade and in farm
products no better is produced any
where. Farmers all over the county
should decide to help the movement
both with encouraging talk, cash and
exhibits. By that means our countv
will be benefited beyond all thought
Favorite and Expositor Will Appear Un
der Name of Expositor While
Editor Baker Retires.
F.ven in tinv villages traffic policemen. ! ana expectation, avery indication now
soldiers, instructed the drivers, kept Pints to tne perfection of a fair com
the traffic separated, for in addition to Panv to be operated along lines both
the Verdun sector, the St. Mihiel and
the Argenne sectors were fed in part
by the same route.
All night long in Bar-le-Ouc it was
possible to hear the endless rumble of
the wheels ot the great trucks. On
the road Paris buses, laden with fresh
meat, lumbered steadily.
It was rather like a huge torrent
than like vehicular traffic, and it was
the real salvation of Verdun, for it
pieserved Verdun from isolation, it
remedied the essential defect due to
the cutting of the two railroads, it re
placed two useless arteries by a third,
which was absolutely sufficient.
In this war the world has talked
mostly ot German efficiency, prepara
tion, foresight. Yet to see this nevei
ending procession, these thousands and
tens of thousands of motor vehicles
proceeding on their way, assembled
from somewhere, from everywhere,
heplful to the farmer and profitable to
those who invest their money in the
movement.
HAS ACCEPTED.
without delay, without difficulty, mo- board is called.
Chairman G. A. Haley, ot the High
School board, received a letter Friday
from Prof. John A. Miller, of Knox
ville, stating that he would accept the
position tendered him as head of the
High School here for the coming year.
Miss Ethel Keyes, who has been in
charge of the musical department the
past year, may not take up the work
again. While the board feels that Miss
Keyes has rendered very satisfactory
service the past year, they find it ad-!
visable to secure some one who is will
ing to work tor less than was paid
Miss Keyes, owing to the low state of
the High School fund. However, at
this time no one has been engaged and
it is probable that matter will not be
adjusted until another meeting of the
A deal has been perfected at Sparta
that eliminates one of the three papers
that have been published there for
over a year. The White County Fa
vorite has been purchased by E. C.
barber, who has edited the Sparta
News tor over a year, and the Favor
ite has ceased to issue. Editor R. P.
Baker, of the Favorite, will be con
nected with the Expositor in (he me
chanical department.
Mr. Barber has become assistant to
Editor Sutton and will also lend a hand
at the mechanical department of the
Expositor
No cleaner paper was ever issued
fram Sparta than Editor R. P. Paker
made of the Favorite. He stooa for
good morals, justice and good be
haviour, both in ptivate citizens and
officials. In this he never faltered and
the work he did is deserving of warm
commendation.
With the united efforts of the three
men engaged in producing the Exposi
tor it should, and doubtless will, prove
a paper worthy the confidence and sup
port of the people of White county.
Monday morning the Highway Com
mission began moving dirt in the edge
of town near whore W. E. Grissom
lives. It is not the purpose of the com
mission, it seems, to do any very exten
sive work at present because teams
and men are both scarce.
The commission mean to build a few
miles of road in order to get a know
ledge of the cost of the different kinds
of work. The costs of culverts being
one thing on which they feel they will
be able to save considerable money
by building them from concrete as
against huying any ready made cuvlert
of which they know anything now.
The people are very restless over
the slow movement of the work, but
time may show, and is likely to show,
that the intoru.ation the commission
will be able to acquire by doing a por
tion ot the work will be time well
spent, in the event it develops later
that the work will have to be done by
contract. Many persons feel that the
main bulk of the work will finally have
to be done by contract because of the
difficulty of securing men and teams
In that event there 13 every probability
that the commission will be in much
better shape to guard the intetests of
the county for having done a portion
of the work as they are now doing.
In view of these facts the people
should be patient and not rush to hasty
criticisms before the commission has
had time to demonstrate or learn
which is the safest or most practical
way of handling the work.
Contestants have been unusually ac
tive the past week because they know
the Boostei Period, when 2,000 extra
votes will be given for subscriptions,
will end today. Six subscriptions will
give you a Buster Brown Kodak, pro
vided you did not get one in the former
offer.
If you get the Kodak the subscrip
tions will count just the same tor votes
on the two prizes offered in your dis
trict and on the two grand prizes.
l'here is very little reason why any
active lady should tail to win a prize
when there are eight in sight, but you
cannot win unless you work for thera
are those who are working and they
are in earnest about getting one of the
prizes. No person can get more than
one prize. That givs a better chance
for more ladies. One of those beauti
ful bracelet watches or lavelliers would
look mighty nice to yon and the effort
to get one is not much ; ft ar less than
would be required to earn the money
to buy one.
That beautiful talking machine will
be a handsome ornament for any home
and can be earne.l foi tar less effort
than it would eosL to buy one. If you
tail to get the talking machine there
is the diamond ring, a perfect beauty
and of line quality.
Those who no ..mated ladies should
not forget that there is n 26-oiece set
of silver, worth $12.00, that is to do
given free to the ore who nominates
the winner. Better he Ip the one you
nominated, you might get the silver
set.
No one has such a lend .vet that it
I fannnt hp nverrnnip hv active and tner-
getic work. Tne quitter never wins;
it is the stayer that carries off the
prizes and the more active a lady is the
more interest her friends feel in her.
Don't forget there are two bracelet
watches, two diaraonda lavelliers to
each district and there are the two
grand prizes besides. Everyone has a
chance at them. There is nothing
cheap about the prizes ; every one is a
beauty and of splendid quality.
Subscriptions r.iay be taken anywhere!
in the United States and the paper will
be sent just the same :md the samo
number ot votes given. Write to your
friends at a distance and get them to
help you by subscribing.
Ki
HOME-COMING DAY.
KEEPING UP TO THE MARK.
"Spring fever" is not always a joke,
if you feel dull and sluggish, itred and
worn out. suffer from backache or weak
nack, rheumatism, sore muscles, stiff
joints or other indications of kidney
trouble, it will pay you to investigate
Foley Kidney Pills. They are highly
recommended as prompt and efficient
aids to health. For sale by Reed &
Burnett.
Monday, June 5, has been set aside
as home-coming post card day for East
Tennessee. It is urged that the people
all over this section send oat postal
cards to their friends, who have moved
to distant states, urging them to come
back to the old home in September.
In that glorious month when all na
ture smiles and the bounties of heaven
are most profuse, it is hoped the wan
derers will return for at least a brief
spell and view old scenes and make
glad the hearts of old friends. It is
not a bad idea for it certainly can do
no barm and may result in much pleas
ure to many.
VILLA BANDITS AGAIN.
Three Troopers and a Ttn-Year-Old
Boy and Then Escape.
About 70 Villa bandits attacked the
little town of Glenn Springs, Texas,
Friday night and killed three troopers
and a deaf and dumb ten-year-old boy.
They took one trooper and two citizens
prisoner and carried the-i away, The
citizens are reported to have had their
throats cut.
The little town attacked
miles inland from the t
were only nine civalrj ti -town
and they made a bra.
the adobe hut roof wa Hret
made a dash to get nwaj
were killed.
A posse of htty citizen
went in pursuit. Artotbe
may be sent across the border after
them. Carranza will be asked to as
sist in the capture of the bardits.
vvns fifteen
!er. There
il the little
tight until
when they
and three
ediately
?pedition
CAMP FIRE GIRLS SALE.
Saturday, May 13th, the Camp Fire
Girls will conduct a pie, cake and can
dy sale in the old moving picture
building next door to ttai fly a , the pro
ceeds to be used in Qui I a ng necess
ary equipment for the Inc Ca np Fire.
Miss Lucile Tollett ami ;:.ther Lige
are visiting friends in Rock wood.
Mrs. F. J. Uphain. Mis. I.elab De
Golia and Mrs. L. ft'. Martin spent
part of last week in Nashville.
Get your old cans and rubbish ready
NOW and notify the marshal if you
want them hauled away tree. After
thia week you must pay fur hauling
them as the citly will remove no more
rubbish free after this week. ""
