if Jl ij Jt i
$ 4t mi mL
TMK WEATMEH.
THE tKBflBR M 4TrtWf
l mrdlnm that bring, remits. Oar 4
! rale arc consistent Ttlth circa 4
Intlon, Hooks open to Inspection.
I'
.4 1 WEDNESDAY FAlri.
$
J J J ! 4 4 1 4 1" 4 fa "I I
J
LIS
y
"KKxtr KKPVst.rcAifmi.
MAYSVILLE, KENTUCKY, WEDNESDAY, MAY 10, 1010.
ONE C0PY8NS GENT.
WOMAN'S i'l.ril MEETING
MOVING TO CINCINNATI
Tho regular meeting of the Mason
County Woman's Club will bo hold
Thursday afternoon at 2;30 at tho
I'ubllo Llbrnry building on Sutton
street. A largo attondauco Is desired,
as tho final arrangements for tho
meeting of tho Stato Federation In this
city next week will bo completed.
Miss Kiith Sutton Is visiting her
mother, Mrs. William Dlerlcy, of Aber
deen, Ohio.
Mrs. Robert Davis nnd family of
Forost Avcnuo aro moving today to
Cincinnati to mako their future homo.
Tho best wishes of a number of friends
go with them to tholr now homo.
Leo Fob.!, former manager of tho
Huntington Ohio Stato Loaguo team,
Is making tho Clovoland American
Lcaguo team look better than In a
number of years. Thoy oro now In
first placo.
OPENER TODAY
!A lUJ.LLlliU
Jllt.. (Ol.NAJI NOT
ilhlth
TO SPEAK i
KENTUCKY RED MEN
THE PAINT WE SELL
cannot bo oxcollcd In quality
nt any price. Our motto is
"Paints That Last," and wo
guarantco ovory ono wo sell
to outlast any others of equal
grade nnd similar color. It
pays to buy "Paints That
Last." Thoy cost no more at
first they are cheaper In tho
end.
HENDRICKSON'S
'Vail Paper Paints
Harbeson Garage
Will Put Your Car in
Good Order Ifor
Spring
Parts and Sup
plies Gars rFor Hire
GOODYEAR
AKROIIOHIO
Fortified Tires
FORTIFIED AGAINST '
Rim-Cuti by tho No-Rlm-Cut feature.
3lowooL by the "On-Air" cure.
LooiaTraada by many rubber rivets.
Intccuritr by 13) braided piano wlrei.
Puocturta and Skidding by tlisdouble
tfclclc AU-Weuthcr tread.
JilL.
THE DOORS IN YOtlt HOME
con bo as hnnilsomo as you choose,
without going to any great expense.
Wh show a variety of mill mado doors
in various designs and finishes, the
prices for which will astonish you by
tlioir moderation. In fact you couldn't
buy thi) plainest handmade door for
lo?s money. If ours cost uo more why
not havo them?
The Mason Lumber Company
Corner Limestone and Secnud Streets.
Phun. 519.
A A, Mrl.uiighlln. L. II. Ueban.
I Mrs. C'att, I'rcsldcut of tho National
.Majstlllo and Portsmouth Will Start Ainciluuii omnu Sutfruge Assoela- . , . .
tho Hall Rolling- at Leagtio Park 'tlou, 1ms taken Mrs. T. T, Cotnani, of lo,"ruo Irankfort-Goicruor Sinn,
at .1 O'clock Crowd Expect- , Little llock, Arkansas, and Miss Lnurn IeJr Welcomes Great Council nt
cd to Ho tho lllggott .day, to Iowa, to assist In tho cam- tho Capital.
kcr. Ipalgu for Woman Suffrage, that term-! -
With tho banTThTylng and colors ' Ar to u-More people
flying Maysvllle and Portsmouth will eolnn"' "w, ,.0t speak ore durlnc . "" ?oula crowa "Uo ll,c of
pry oft tho lid at League Park this era to n as was i.revlousli in" h W S"Uo ou,,llld Wuru 8lru""
afternoon nt 3 o'clpck, ushering In tho peor a " "f Ai iT- i,??!, "i? or ""t"" bwcrnor mu.i-
11)16 Bcason of tho Ohio Stato League. MIa f i - -. V i.n lc tl"a "'orning, rorumlly welcomed
a iuiviivu n in n-oi ui llluitlllUa til
.Manager Jones of tho locals gave
tho boys a short work-out at the park
yesterday morning and nllowcd them
to rest In tho afternoon. All tho play
ers arc In splendid condition and mix-'
lous to start tho season. j
umiHiKur opencor aim inu i oriH
mouth squad arrived this morning and
look to bo In good shnpo. .Manager
Spencer Is confident that his team will
bo heard from throughout tho neanoti.
The Portsmouth special train with
200 fans, including tho IUver City
Hand, will arrive on a special train at
2 o'clock and will get off nt .Market
street.
At 2 o'clock prompt the nutomobilo
MOTHKIt'S II AY
noil ' Krcul c0UUfU of the Hod .Men,
nou- which couvunud in the lloime of ltep
roBoutntivcs. Frankfort Uuyinakcrn
havo been keeping open Iioubc and eu-
Mothor's Day will bo observed wlthlcrnl"0,,11lhu I0!' de'cBate last night
nnnrnnrlnte services next Simrtnv nt wltn n b,B colubration, The twenty-
!tho Third Street .M. K. Church. It foup llours ITOcedlng the tlmo when
will bo relebratcd this year In con-;1"0 umo wlle" tho arua' Hnchom II. C.
nnotlon wlh the nnnlversnry snrvlco 0f Yunl(or called the body to order has
tho ICpworth League. The mothers ofl,ccn dovoted to o(lgu politics. (Ireat
the church and community are Invited
this tlmo to be guess of tho Kpworth
Loaguo nt their anniversary servlco in
the evening. Tho program Is "A Trib
ute to Our .Mothers." Kvcrv feature
f the program Is In honor and praise
parade will form at Sutton and Second, ,f t'' niothmi. Jt wl 1 be eiilertalnliig,
streets and headed by the baud will l'ring ami helpful. The Kpworth
procccd direct to tho park. All per-1 l,nf ',ro M.,r,M" f owln their
sons who wish to enter tho parauc will ; mo,nt,r,8 they do love them nnd
have to bo on hand at the time, men
tioned above. Hrlng your automobtla
and cet In tho fun.
Mayor J. Wesley Leo will pitch tho!
first ball inaugurating tho Bcason a
festivities. At different times during
tho afternoon tho band will dlttcourso
sweet Btrnln of soulful music to keep
tho crowd In tuno with the occasion.
All tho Maysvllle banks and a num
ber of business houses will close at
noon In ordor to glvo their employes a
chance to enjoy tho festivities.
The park has been thoroughly over
hauled during tho past week and ev
erything will bo in good shapo this afternoon.
Tho batteries will bo McGrnynor or
Singleton and Mueller for Maysvllle
and Jacobus or Ferguson arid Dill
hocfer for Portsmouth.
The llno-up of tho two teams aud
interest bus been manifested In the
raco between Lyman Urnham or
Frankfort and Kdwnrd Hllpp of Louis
ville for groat Junior sagnmnro; be
tween Itobort Cole of Ilarbourvlllo and
ltobert Courtney of Covington for
prcnt keeper of wampum and among
Mayor Iluschomoyer of Louisville,
ltobert Leo Pago, H. C. Yunker and
Or. W. A. Keller for representative
t-1 tho national great council. Mayor
I'tinert and Reeretary Leopold nf the
'irtinmbnr of Commerre welrntneil thefjn
i'.-in"iH in unureR.s mis morning ana
appreciate them. Special scats will bo
reserved for them and If It la posslblo
to obtain them u carnatlou will bo
presented to every ono who comes.
Thn T.ntirii.i will I...1.I I... ....... .1 .1..
tlou or odim.iH nt n. i....i.,o.. ,., Pockmnn Ovorstreet. Mnvnr Mnschp-
clal meeting Friday nlaht aud the new. m.pvor nnd """"t T.oo Pace rnnnond-,
1 elorted olllcera will bo publicly In- p,, A tPr 'h', OT1,,"'" """"lwl" Itev K. II Hill of Vaticcbiirg was a
ducted Into oltlcu at the Anniversary i0011"0" 'wrnt ln, f,',''r'' Pentinn visitor In tho city Tuesday
Kervlri. '
BTRATffBERRIES
Ate coming in fine now. Let us have your ordor for
the best in this market.
Also
The best lot of Vegetables handled by any one in
Maysvllle.
Dinger Hidb, 102 at-
Ml
a
M
M
N
Mr ltobert Leo Straus of Cincinnati .Messrs, N. S. Campbell, W. F. Wheol
arrlved Tuesday nlglit to attend the er, C 11 llentlcy, ltobert Claypool and
funeral of tho late Mr. David Hcch- Karl Campbell of Sardls aro hero to-
Inger. Mlay attending tho opening ball game.
EAT AND DRINK
Our Fountain now open to the Public.
Our Pure Ice Cream is Delightful.
Our Tropical Fruits the Best.
Our Fancy and Plain Sundae's Can't be Beat.
Ice Cold Coca Cola, Lemon and Orange Phosphate, Root
Beei, Grape Juce, etc. We employ the sanitary service system.
M. F. WILLIAMS DRUG COMPANY
19
Try a want ad In The Ledger's claa
sifted column. It will bring results.
1. P. KIM.' IIK.KLKLTKl) SL'PKK.
INTKNUK.VT OP MJWPOKT
SCHOOLS
(Cincinnati Times-Star)
Tho Hoard of School Commissioners
re-elected W. P. King superintendent
of the Newport public schools for a
term of four years. Ills salary wus
increased from J,25u to $:',ot0 per
milium, to continue for tho Urst two
othor baso ball news will bo found on years. This will bu increased to LV
rtntvn tli.M IflCrt .1... I . I 1 .' , .
page three.
McCLA.VAIIA.V
Undo "Dodo" McClanahan is wear
ing a happy smllo now for the stork
left a handsome baby daughter. Mil
dred, at his home early Tuesday morn
ing. Mother and daughter ure doing
nlcoly and father is recuperating.
ELIJAH 3f. PA It KE It CAUGHT
CUBA
TIRES!
Kelly,
Miller,
American,
U; S. Brander.
Bought before the advance.
Prices right. Big Stock. If
you need tires, here's your
Opportunity.
Elijah M. Parker, who killed Elmer
V. Butler at Cold Springs, Ky., several
wooks ago. has been captured in Man
zillo, Cuba, and will bo brought back
to Newport to face trial on a charge of
murder.
Tho Ladies Aid Socloty of the
Third Street M. E. Church will meet
Wcdnosday at 2:30 p. m. in tho church
A full attendance Is desired.
ItlN'GGOLI) LODGE, I. 0. O. F.
Regular weekly meeting of Ringgold
Lodgo No. 27. I. O. O. F Wednesday
night at 7:30 oclock. Degree work,
All members urged to bo present.
SIMON NELSON, Secretary
J. O. U. A. 31. MEETING.
Regular weekly meeting of Lime
stone Chapter No. 25C J. O. U. A. M
tonight at 7:30 o'clock All members
are requested to bo present.
WALTER RUDY, Councilor.
PRAYER 3IEETI.VG.
Prayer meeting this ovoning at 7
ocloo.k at tho Central Presbyterian
church.
II. P. 0. ELKS JIKETISG.
Regular meeting of the I). P. O.
Elks this evening nt 7:30 o'clock. A
full attendanco desired.
DR. J. A. DODSON, E. R.
W. R. Smith, Secretary.
DEATH OF LOUIS SCHWEICKART
Mr. Louis Schweickart, aged 71
years, passed away at his homo near
Tuckahoo Tuesday morning after a
sudden stroke of appoplexy.
Mr. Schweickart wus ono of tho
county's most highly respected citi
zens and a prominent nnd successful
farmer. lie Is survived by ono daugh
ter, Mrs. Joseph Dorley of Cynthlana,
and ono son, Mr. Mack Schweickart
o! tho county.
Funoral from his lato homo Thurs
day morning at 11 o'clock. Hurlal In
tho Ripley, Ohio, cemetery.
A COHRECTIOX
MIKE BROWN
"THE SQUARE DEM. MAN"
-A.LUisriiM xjm: ware;
OX AITOUXT OP THE VERY 1 Oil PH1CE AT PHESEXT, WE HATE
LIMITED THE PREMIUMS TO Tift VARIOUS PIECES WE UAYU IX
STOCK.
The resolutions of respect for tho
late Mrs. Katherlno Shultz Poyntz
which were published In Tuesday's
Ledger and wcro said to have been
pasBed by tho Woman's Missionary So
cloty of tho Central Presbyterian
Church were passed by tho Ladies'
Aid Society of that church instead and
we are glad to make a correction to
that effect.
TO DELIVER COJIMEXCE.MEXT AD
DRESS AT AUGUSTA
Prof. W. J. Capllngor, Superinten
dent of the Maysvllle Public Schools,
has boen selected by the Doard of
Education of Augusta to deliver tho
commencement address at that place
Friday night.
ifiO tliu lust half of his term. It was
made known to tho Hoard of Commis
sioners that Superintendent King had
a liberal offer to go elsewhere and ho
was considering tho proposition. Tho
commissioners, however, were deter
mined that ills services should bo
continued In the Newport schools.
Prof. King is well known here, hav
ing been principal of ono of tho Mays
vllle schools for several years.
.Mrs. Cora Peddlcord, Superinten
dent of tho City Mission, leaves today
to attend the National Conference of
Charities and Corrections at Indian
apolis, Ind., which lasts for one wcok,
beginning today.
Dr. W. R. Hoflln of Newport is hero
today to attend tho ball game.
1 Departed This Life I
May 7, 1916 I
Our Mr. David Hechinger I
FOR GRADUATION AND CON
FIRMATION We invite the expectant girl graduate to an unusual display of commencement and class day gowns.
kl Net, organdie, chiffon and silk combined with Georgette crepe. Price $5 to $15.
For confirmation we ape admirably aquipped with dainty little frocks from $1.25 to $7.50. Sizes 7 to
14 years. Also a complete line for children 4 to 6 years old.
It is easy for us to say our dresses surpass anything we ever had, but we want to prove it by showing
them to you. When every customer says they are the prettiest, the best made, the most unusual values,
the dantiest in trimming and smartest' in design, it can't be chance. They are dresses that sell on sight.
Don't miss seeing them. It is a pleasure to show goods. Come in today.
B-A-R,C3--A. 1 1STS
Suits much underprice. It is a splendid oportunity to secure a handsome suit at great savings.
A special display of rugs will interest you on our third floor. Prices, patterns and quality are of equal
interest.
f -teas HXTTSTT'S .1916
Mrs. John Klnslor of East Fifth
street left Sunday for a visit to rela
tives In Covington.
Mrs. Lily Kolly of Mt. Carmel Is thai Dr. and Mrs J. I). 0'Hannon of Mt.
guest of Mr. and Mrs, I). K. Muse of j Carmel aro visitors In the city to
East Third street. Iday.
Mr. Uasil Rerry was stricken with
paralysis at his home in Maysllck
Monday and his condition Is serious.
Miss Florence Dodson, who was op
erated on for appendicitis at Hays
wood Hospital Monday. Is getting
along nicely.
Mrs. Iko Itoser of Los Aangelos, is
here with her husband, visiting Mrs.
Sarah Roser of Front street.
We will be closed Wednesday
at 1 o'clock to attend the funeral of
the late Mr. D. Hechinger.
4
t
