II iH
1 1 il
'I I Way's toal Prices I fflftiftfrk Ssf tt vrv I 4 P. M. CITY EDfflON I
lead, $7.307.50; spelter, $17.00; cop- f VX WEATHER Utah: Showers To- I H
per flrm' electrolytic, S28.7530.00. W night or Thursday; Colder H
, FEARLESS, INDEPENDENT, PROGRESSIVE NEWSPAPER. - H
Forty-Blxth Year-No. 112. Price Five Cents. OGDEN CITY, UTAH, WEDNESDAY EVENING, MAY 10 191 fi 77 77; Z "1
- ' W1 lV 1ib' Entered as Second Class Matter at the Postofflce, Ogden. Utah. lM
Germany Admits Submarine Attack on 1
I the Sussex and Promises Reparation I
i j h
GERMAN BOMBARDMENT IN THE
: VERDUN REGION IS DIMINISHING
If Artillery Action West of the Meuse Less Pronounced and East
I I of the River Only Intermittent Turks Report Repulse
I f of Russians at Various Points With Capture of Much
Booty and Acts of Reprisal Against the
t Russian Fleet.
I Berlin, May 1 0, wireless to Sayville. In an engagement
I. off the Belgian coas't on Monday between German and British
I I torpedo craft, a British destroyer was badly damaged by shell
I fire, according to official announcement hy the German ad
I miralty under date of May 9. i
I 'r "Two German torpedo boats" says the official statement,
I while reconnoitering on the morning of May 8, had a brief en
f i gagement north of Ostend with five British torpedo boat de
l : stroyers. One destroyer was badly damaged by artillery fire.
I The German torpedo boats returned it) port undamaged."
f j
r Washington, Ma'- 1 0. Germany's new note acknowl-
f i edging responsibility for destruction of the Sussex, promising
P reparation and announcing punishment of the submarine com-
1 mander was received late today at the state department from
Ambassador Gerard.
f A now note on the Sussex case has
h been handed Ambassador Gerard by
f i the Berlin foreign office. Admission
i Is made in Berlin that it can no long-
; er be doubted that a German subraa-
rino torpedoed the Sussex.
P The text of the note made public
L ' late totiay reveals that Germany while
I contending- that the submarine com-
f ' mander "acted in the bonaflde belief
t ; that he was facing an enemy war-
f ship" when he torpedoed the Sussex,
t- nevertheless says he formed his
f judgment too hurriedly and did not
- act in strict accordance with his in-
t structions and the imperial govern-
: ment therefore frankly admits that as-
. surances given the United States
were not adhered to in this instance.
' The note expresses "sincere regret
: r regarding tho deplorable Incident,"
M and declares Germany's readiness to
I pay an adequate indemnity to in
jured American citizens It says the
German gpvernment "disapproves of
the conduct of tho commander, who
has been appropriately punished," and
voices a hope that the United States
will consider the case settled.
Definite announcement comes from
American Consul Frost at Queens
town that there were no Americans
on board when she was torpedoed off
the Irish coast.
Brazil will demand Indemnity from
Germany for the sinking by a subma-
k rlne of the Brazilian steamer Rio
': i" Branco. according to a Rio Janeiro
dispatch.
. Paris reports diminishing activity
in the Verdun region.
w
l Paris, May 10, 2:30 p. m. Activity
T on the Verdun front Has decreased,
according to the statement given out
by the war office this afternoon. Ar-
;; tlllery action west of the Meuse was
f less pronounced and east of the river
J was only intermittent.
i1 An attack on French trenches be-
ij tween the Oise and the Alsne was re-
jf pulsed.
f The text of the statement reads:
f "Between the Oise and the AJsne,
i a coup d'main upon one of our tren-
ches southeast of Moulain Sous Toutr
3 vent was completely checked.
1 "In the Verdun region, theJ)ombard-
T ment west of the Meuse noticeably
a diminished. East of the Meuse, and
if in the "Woevre there was Intermittent
cannonading.
-I "Hand grenade skirmishes were to-
j ported during the night In the woods
of Avoconrt and south of Fort Douau-
j mont.
ft "In upper Alsace the enemy recon-
K noiterlng party which attempted to
i seize one of our small posts near Hlr-
l schbach south of Altklrch was repuls-
ed with losses."
h
Berlin, May 10, Wireless to Say-
t ville The Germans have made further
' progress on hill 304 on the Verdun
i front and have driven back Frenoh de-
5 tachments on the southwest part of
the hill, tho war office statement of
i) today says.
i The statement follows:
'In the Argonne the enemy, after
il a mining operation attempted to en-
i tor our lines, but was repulsed.
? "8outhwest of Hill 304 advanced de-
I tachments ot the enemy were driven
' further back. One detachment was
captured. The new German positions
v on hill 304 were extended.
, "German airmen dropped munerous
ij "bombs on factories at Dombasle (Ar-
'! gonne) and Raon L'Ttape (Vosges).
; "Eastern front: A Russian attack
south of Garbunovka along a small
" front was repulsed, The enemy sut-
' fered heavy losses."
Turkish War Report.
F Constantinople, May 10, via London,
K 2:22 p. m. A statemont Issued today
lj hy the TurklBh war office says:
k "Gaucasuo front: In local engage-
J .menta on tho right wing and in the
e center we made a number of prisoners
I land CApturod booty. Tn the center an
U .attack by an enemy company was
I jbeaten back with great enemy losses,"
The statement says Russian de
tachments were repulsed in the reg
ions of Ivirvaz and Mount Bathli and
a number of prisoners and some booty
captured
The statement continues:
"Ou the loft wing, the enemy is en
gaged in different sectors in the vicin
ity of the coast in building fortifica
tions. f "As a reprisal against the Russian
fleet which bombarded open towns
and villages on the Anatolian coast
and destroyed harmless sailing vessels '.
and fishing boats we destroyed, be- ;
tween Euphatoria and Sebastopol- a
OAA.A7 vL -3(WU rJUJ auu tv 1IUIUUU1 ui
sailing vessels.
"An enemy guard ship which appear
ed west of Kouche Ada, in Smyrna,
waters, was taken under fire by our
artillery. One shell was observed to
explode on board tho ship, destroy
ing tho commander's bridge. The ship
then withdrew in the direction of
Samor"
Blood Feuds Suspended.
Berlin, May 9, via London, May 10,
7:58 a. m. According to a dispatch
from Scutari the chiefs of all the Al
banian slans. In a meeting there, havo
voted unanimously to suspend for six
months the custom of blood ven
geance. Blood feuds have been uni
versal In Albania for centuries.
The action of the chiefs was taken
under the pressure of the Austrian
military leaders operating in Albania,
Field Marshal Trollmann who con
quered Montenegro, made a personal
appeal to the chiefs urging the aboli
tion of the custom.
Disarming Ulsterites Opposed.
London, May 10, 3.26 a, m. The
Times protests this morning against
any measure for disarming tho UlBter
ites. "It might be comparatively easy,"
says the Times, "to carry out the dis
armament of Ulster, because the Ul
ster men are under discipline and
their arms can be accounted for. But
who could trace and answer for the
arms hidden in the cottages and tene
ments of South and West Ireland?
The Ulster men fully understand the
difference between disarmament in
tho two cases. They regard them
selves as a slender garriBon who still
hold the fort for thousands ot gallant
comrades they have sent to the
trenches.
"As great as are those influences
and authority of Sir Edward Carson
over them, I do not think he could
prevail on the UlBter men to disarm
under present conditions "
French Balloons Land.
Berlin, May 9, via London, May 10, 9
a. m. Two of the French balloons
which broke their moorings in tho
French lines In France on Saturday
landed near Hanover. One of the bnl
loonn was manned by a orew of three
soldiers, apparently officers. Thoy
have not been captured.
The French official report on Sat
urday said that about twenty captive
balloons had broken from their moor
ings during a squall and that some of
them had been carried to the German
lines.
Baron Wimbornc Resigns.
London, May 10, 5:33 p. in. The
marquis of Crewo, announced In the
house of lords today that Baron Wlm
borne, lord lieutenant of Ireland, has
resigned.
Baron Wimborne's resignation waB
not unexpected, bocauBo of wide
spread criticism of tho administra
tion of Irish affairs, following tho out
break in Dublin. PUs retlromont
comes a week after the resignation
ot Augustine BIrrell, chief secretary
for Ireland.
Baron Wlmborne was appointod
lord lieutenant of Ireland in January
of laRt year In succession, to Lord
Aberdcon.
EXECUTIONS OF
REBELS UPHELD
Irish Home Secretary Says
Government Would. Have
Been Guilty of Unpar
donable Weakness.
STERN JUSTICE NEEDED
Infliction of Extreme Penalties
Nearing Wholesale Prose
cutions Not Intended.
London, May 10, 33S p. m. Reply
ing to the protests which have been
made in the last few days against the
putting to death of leaders of the
Irish rebellion, Herbert Samuel, the
home secretary said today that the
government would have been guilty
of unpardonable weakness if it had
not mted out stern punlshmont to
the guilty. The public might rest as
sured, Mr. Samuel added, that neither
the government, north military au
thorities, had any intention of adopt
ing a policy of wholesale prosecution.
Mr Samuel thought It would bo
found the number of cases in which
it was necessary to inflict the ex
treme penalty was nearing an end, if
indeed, the end had not aheady been
reached.
Discussing the necessity for tho de
fense of the realm regulations, Her
bert Samuel, secretary for home af
fairs stated today that within the last
few weeks thre had been discovered
in the heart of London a public house
(saloon) occupied by a naturalized
German and a resort of other natural
ized Germans where language of ihe
most treasonable and anti-British
character was used. Mr Samuel said
It was obviously necessary to deal
with such cases and the powers in his
hands enabled him properly to Intern
all tho men concerned.
No More Extreme Measures.
i-remier Asquith old tne House ot
commons today there was reason to
believe taht there would be no further
need to proceed to extreme measures
with Irish rebels, although he could
give no undertaking to that effect.
The reply to tho question from John
Dillon, nationalist member for Enst
Mayo, Mr. Asquith said that so far as
ho knew no prisoner had been shot in
Ireland without trial.
The premier stated that S. Shehey
Skeffington, editor of the Irish Citi
zen, was shot in Dublin on April 26
without the knowledge of the military
authorities. This statement was in
replv to an inquiry yesterday wheth
er Mr. Skeffington had been shot be
fore the proclamation of martial law.
This matter is under Investigation,
Mr. Asquith added, saying the offi
cer concerned had been arrested and
would be court martialled. The de
bate in the commons on the Irish situ
ation which was to have been held to
night was postponed until tomorrow.
Regarding two other executions re
ported to have taken place at the same
time Mr Skeffington was shot, Mr.
Asquith stated an investigation would
be made.
Tho premier gave an undertaking in
the house that no further execution
would take place In Ireland before
the time of debate on the Irish ques
tion tomorrow.
Casement to Be Tried Monday.
The premier informed the house
that Sir Roger Casement, who was
captured on attempting fto land in
Ireland to lead the rebellion would be
placed on trial on Monday.
The commission will inquire into
the cause of the recent outbreak and
the conduct and degree of responsi
bility of clYll and military authorities
in that connection. Baron Hardlnge
will be chairman.
John Redmond, tho Irish leader, ex
pressed In the house of commons to
day a desire for a wider investigation.
Premier Asquith replied that if the
area of inquiry were widened no tri
bunal could undertake tho task. Con
sequently, it wa.s a question between
holding an inquiry within limits and
having none at all.
nn
GERMAN LOSSES
ARE ESTIMATED
Total in April 91,162, Since
Beginning of War 2,822,079,
Not Including Naval or
Colonial Troops. ,
London, May 10, 1:50 p. m. An of
ficial British estimate of German cas
ualties in April, issued here today,
plnccs tho total at 91,162. The num
ber ot German casualties since the
beginning of tho war 1b given as 2,
822.079. These figures wcro given In the
following statement:
"German casualties, exclusive of
corrections, were reported during tho
month of April, 1916, as follows:
"Killed or died of wounds, 17,455;
died of nickneBS, 2395; prisoners,
1921; missing, 6217; severely wound
ed, 14,557. wounded 4001; slightly
wounded 3&.S79; woundad, remaining
p
I Troops Are Ordered to Hasten to I
Reinf orcev Gen. Funston's Army I
CANADIAN UNVEILS
INTRIGUES OF COURT
John Murray Gibbon, a quiet but
observing Canadian, has just given
London something besides the war to
think about, in the latest product of
his pen, "Hearts & FaceB. ' Full of
shrewd, pointed description and bit
ing irony, Gibbon's "Hearts & Faces"
has invited the world to gaze upon
the intimate life of several persons
internationally famous ana well
known in the daily life of the British
metropolis. The book has been
brought to New York to be pub
lished. Gibbon's life reads like a romance.
He waB born in Ceylon, the son of a
titled Scot, educated in Glasgow;
given a degree, "Cum Laude," at
with units 5637. Total, 91,162.
"These, added to those reported In
previous months, including corections
reported in April, 191G, bring the to
tals reported in German official lists
since the beginning of tho wnr to:
"Killed or died ot wounds 664,552.
died of sickness, 41.325; prisoners,
137,798; missing, 197,094; severely
WnnnHod 1SKK1K' ti.min.larl irj fi'W-
tivuuuwu, wis,vxu, rtisuuuuv.g wvajwm.,
slightly wounded, 1,023,212; wounded
remaining with units, 117,056. Total,
2,822,079.
"Those figures include all German
nationalities Prussian, Bavari
ans, Saxons and Wurtembergers.
They do not include naval or colonial
troops."
oo
EAST STRIPPED
OF ITS INFANTRY
Only Three Squadrons of Sec
ond Cavalry and Battalion
of Field Artillery Left at
Forts Ethan Allen
and Meyer.
oNow York, May 10. The ordor of
the war department sending addition
al troops to the Mexican border, In
cluding the Thhd and Thirtieth in
fantry regiments virtually strips the
Department of the East of all of its
Infantry. Thero remain only three
squadrons of the Second cavalry at
forts Ethan Allen and Meyer and a
battalion of field artillery.
The departuro of the Third and
Thirtieth regiments leaves hardly
enough regular officers In tho depart
ment of the east to act as instructors
for tho military training camps at
Plattsburg this summer. It 1b be
lieved at army headquarters here that
officers from the coast artillery com
mands stationed In eastern forts will
be ordered to take tho places of tho
infantry officers as instructors at
Plattsburg. This plan was adopted
In the case of the training camps at
Fort Oglethorpe.
Instruction Camp Changed.
Junction City, Kan., May 10. Tho
r-r - - Hffliiii
Christ Church (where King- Edward
was schooled), Oxford; admitted to
classes in German universities and
to the art schools of Paris and Lon
don, including the famous "Lan
ham"; edited for a time "Black &
White," ono of Lonoon's big maga
zines; elected an officer of the Cir
cumnavigators' club because of hia
globe-trotting achievements; author
of several historical books, and now
on the threshold of new conquests in
a field but recently entered.
Gibbon lives in the quaint French
Canadian village of St Anno de
Bellevue, Quebec, and is making a
record for himself as an official of
the Canadian Pacific railway.
camp of Instruction for officers and
non-commisBioned officers of the mili
tia field artillery, from Colorado. Mis
souri and Kansas, which was sched
uled to bo held at Fort Riley from
June 1 to June 15, has been called off,
It was announced here today. Tho of
ficers will go to Tobyhanna, Pa., In
stead. oo i
WARSHIPS AFTER
UNDERSEA BOATS
Two French Battleships With
Three Cruisers in Search of
German Commerce Raid
ers in Atlantic.
Chester, Pa,, May 10. -The British
steamer Kluraount here today from
Cape Ilaytian, reported that on Mon
day, about 100 miles southeast of Cape
Henlopen, Del., tho steamer was stop
ped by two French battleships which
Inquired if the Kinmount had seen
any German submarines. On being
told that none had been sighted, the
battleships with three crulserB, which
had boon waiting some distance off,
proceeded north toward New York.
The warships, the Kinmount reported,
were equipped with steel nets strung
along their sides. It is believed they
were searching for supposed submar
ines recently reported near the Amer
ican coasL
oo
AEROPLANES DROP
TONS OF FOOD
London, May 10. 3:30 p. m. British
aeroplanes dropped 18,000 pounds of
.food in addition to mail and military
stores in Kut-el-Amara between April
11 and 29. This effort to relieve the
hunger of tho besieged garrison which
subsequently surrendered to the Turks
was told of In the house of commons
today by Harold M. Tennant, parlia
mentary under secretary for war.
During tho alogq of Kut-el-Amara,
Tennant said, only ono Brltlflh aero
planewas brought down hy thoTnrb6. -
TEN THOUSAND TROOPS ARE ON I
WAY TO THE MEXICAN BORDER I
r jH
Proposed Military Agreement Between Carranza and Ameri-
can Government Still Unsigned and Generals Still Hold-
ing Conferences Obregon to Make Counter Pro- M
posals Will Present Paper Setting Forth His H
Views Funston Anxious to Return to
His Headquarters H
Washington, May 10. Virtually the
last American troops in the United
States were being mobilized today for
Mexican border service. With the Na
tional Guard of -three states, they
were under orders to hasten to rein
force Gen. Funston's army. The to
tal of between 9,000 and 10,000 In
cluded eleven companies of coast ar
tillery ordered out last night by Sec
retary Bakor.
The proposed military agreement
between the Carranza and American
government remained unsigned and
Gen. Obregon, Mexican war minister,
after a three hour discussion with
Gen. Scott, last night, arranged for
still another conference today.
Unofficial reports were received
that Mexicans along the entire border
had planned for today a concerted up
rising. Admiral Winslow commanding on
tho west Mexican coast, reported to
tha navy -department today that the
steamer San Juan had taken 680 Amer
ican refugees from Manzanillo and
23 from Mazatlan and was preceding
with them to San Diego, Cal. The ad
miral mnde no reference in hia dis
patch to new disturbances on the
coast but said there was a general
feeling among Americans to leave
Mexico.
Obregon to Present Views.
Secretary Baker informed President
Wilson today that the conference be
tween Gen. Scott and Gen. Obregon
last night was not conclusive and that
it would bo continued today. He in
dicated that the outlook was more fav
orable for an agreement being reach
ed. The exact points of dlfferenco
were not revealed.
Gen. Scott has advised Secretary
Baker that no formal counter propos
als have been submitted by General
Obregon, but that Obregon arranged
to submit a paper containing his views
today. Gen. Scott did not advise the
department what counter proposals
were under consideration.
Secretary Baker today received an
offer from Gov. Pinkham of Hawaii,
tendering the services of the Hawaiian
National Guard.
Scott to Hold Further Conference.
El Paso, May 10. No answer had
been received from Washington this
morning to General Scott's message
reporting General Obrogon's proposal
for a joint patrol of the International
boundary.
General Scott snid that today's con
ference, scheduled for this morning,
waB to bo held regardless of whether
a reply was received to the plan of
the Mexican minister of war.
General Funston said this morning
ho had no idea when he would get
back to his headquarters at San An
tonio. This was taken to indicate
that todav's conference may not be
the last.
Obregon Is Hopeful.
From Juarez this morning came re
ports that General Obregon and his
ndvisers were optimistic regarding
tho outcome of the conference.
It Is not expected that A. J. Mc
Quatters, tho mining mnn who with
drew from last night's conference,
will tako further part in the discus
sions. General Scott explained today
that In view of the attitude of Gen
eral Obregon he had not thought It
proper to InslBt on Mr. McQuatters'
attendance, especially aa the latter
had no official standing.
Funston to Assign Coast Guards.
General Funston said today tho
coast guard ordered to the bordor
would bo assigned to towns, which it
could best protect. Tho militia will
bo divided among towns, bridges and
easily accessible points with close
communication, relieving tho cavalry
now doing patrol duty, for service In
the isolated sections of the bordor.
Two troops of the Twenty-first infan
try left El Paso today to guard tho
big bridge near Del Rio, on the
Southern Pacific line.
Orders to Perahlng.
General Pershing has been ordered
to begin a greater concentration of
his troops. Those detachmonts still
operating as far south as San Anton
io, it was reported, will be withdrawn
to Coionia Dublan.
Military Men Explain.
American military men today said
they could not accept the fact that a
Carranza commission was found on
one of the Mexicans killed in the
Glenn SprlngB raid as proving tho
raiders were Carranzistas they ex- H
plained that many Mexicans carried H
Carranza commissions obtained before H
the split between tho first chief and IH
Eighth Cavalry at Border. M
Marathon, Tex., May 10. The H
Enghth cavalry detachment from El H
Paao, sent into the Big Bend district H
for protection against new bandit H
raids was at the border today. Auto-
mobilists returning from the neigh- M
borhood of Boquillas saiy they passed
the Eighth near McKlnney Springs H
last night. M
McKinney Springs Is only a few IH
miles from Glenn Springs, where the IH
heaviest toll of the last raid was ex- IH
acted and It is but fifteen miles from M
Glenn Springs to Boquillas. M
The two troops of the Fourteenth
cavalry, dispatched from Fort Clark , M
camped at Henderson .ranch . last j
night. From there Col. Frederick W. IM
Sibley pushed on to Boaulllas to take H
command of the troops under Major H
George T. Langhorne. ,
Sub-bases are being established at 1
Henderson ranch and Miller ranch. H
Aeroplane Captain Allays Fears. H
Columbus, N. JL, Jlay .10. Fears jH
begotten in a rumor-ridden night were H
allayed here today by a reconnais- H
sance flight made by Captain T. F. H
Dodd of the army aero corps. During H
the night stories became current In H
the streets and on the military resor- H
vation that 3,500 Carranza soldiers JH
were marching on Columbus and that H
General Pershing's rear guard had H
been attacked. Machine guns were IH
mounted in some parts of tho camp jH
and soldiers kept close to their bar-
racks. To investigate, Captain Dodd H
flew over territory 75 miles to the
south and west of Columbus. He re- H
ported seeing no Mexican soldiers and H
that all was quiet along the American H
Mexican Ammunition Taken. H
Laredo, Texas, Jlay 10. One mil- IH
lion rounds of rifle ammunition,
which Mexicans attempted to smug-
gle across the river into Mexico last
night was confiscated by troops here. H
It was believed the ammunition was IH
intended for use of bandits in Mex- jH
COL. SIBLEY TO CROSS BORDER. H
Marathon, Texas, May 10. It is be- H
lieved that Colonel Sibley may cross l
the border by early tomorrow. I
The three Mexican prisoners cap- H
tured by Carl Halter and Nick Pas- H
tortus are oxpected hero tonight and IH
they probably will be sent to El Paso H
for military trial. H
Part of the Texas militia will be H
stationed here. H
PREPARING CAMP
SITE FOR TROOPS
Officers at San Antonio Get H
Ready to Receive Militia and H
Regulars for Mobilization. H
San Antonio, Jfay 10. A hoard of H
army officers today began laying out jl
camp sites for the militia and regular il
troops that will begin arriving here ll
within the next few days, subject to "
tho orders of Gen. Funston, The total jl
number of men mobilized at this point 1
for service along tho border and in ,H
Jfexico will exceed 5,000 men. H
The tropa ordered to San Autonio IB
include all tho original militia of Tox- IH
aB, eleven companies of coast artillery IH
from Gulf and Atlantic seaboard 'IH
points, and the Second battalion or jH
tho Third field artillory from Toby- jH
hanna, Pa. H
In addition Gen. Funston has osdes- H
ed the five batteries of the Fifto field H
artillery at Fort Sill to move to tho H
border It was announced at head- IH
quarters that the batteries probably H
would be sent direct to El Paso from H
Fort Sill to join tho one battery of jH
tho same regiment now on dfcy there. jH
' Artillery Stops at Houston. IH
According to information given out I IH
(Continued on Page 7.) (
