'•Wi» \ttlBft
n**-**-
VdLOME XXXVII.
MAY CODRT TERM
OPENS NEXT WEEK
ONLY SMALL LIST OF CASES
SLATED FOR DISPOSAL BY
JURIES.
INSPECTION OF COURT HOUSE
ABOUT ONLY DUTY OF
GRAND JURY.
District court for Brown County con
venes next Monday morning, May 15,
for the spring term, but the prospects
are that the session will be one of the
shortest on record, as there are only
twelve civil cases scheduled for trial and
even of this number some may be put
over for another term.
As far as is known there will be but
little work for the grand jury outside of
the usual inspection of the court house
and other county buildings. No cases
have been sent up to the district court
from justice courts for examination.
There is a persistent rumor to the effect
that the grand jury will make an in
vestigation of the Postel case, and the
county attorney probably will open it
up if demand is made for an investigation
or if he feels that the circumstances
justify an investigation.
The twelve cases set for trial are as
follows:
.N. C. Hoffmann against S. A. Wool
"drick, continued from last term. This
case was tried a year ago, but the jury
disagreed. It is a wage dispute.
George Guggisberg against William H.
Boettger. This is a suit for damages
alleged to have been incurred by the
plaintiff through the purchase of stock
upon the alleged representations of the
defendant. Plaintiff claims the defen
dant recommended to him and other
farmers the purchase of stock in a twine
manufacturing plant and that the stock
-s^as not worth what it had been repre
sented. It is understood that a number.
of other actions against the same de
fendant are awaiting the outcome of this
case, as the twine company disposed of
considerable stock under the same cir
cumstances. This case is liable to be
put over for another term.
Hattie vs. Walter William L. Walter
divorce case, continued from last term.
August A. Petnch vs. George Foster,
continued from last session and involving
& land transaction.
State Bank of New Ulm vs. Minne
sota Flint Rock Co., continued from last
term and probably will again be con
tinued.
Edward F. Berkner vs. Julius Krueger,
continued from last term involves a dis
pute over a land transaction.
Albert Hesse vs. Chicago & North
western Railway Co., also continued
from last term. Plaintiff alleges that he
was put off from a train of the North
western company at Mankato during
1915 and is now seeking to recover
damages. This case also has been pend
ing in the district court since last fall.
State of Minnesota vs. Alex Deinken.
The defendant in this action is at present
serving time in the penitentiary, having
been convicted in the district court last
fall on a charge of carnal knowledge of a
minor. The civil action is an outgrowth
of the criminal case.
Franceska Sellner vs. Mary Conley.
Sleepy Eye people in dispute over the
lease of a hotel.
Farmers' Seed & Nursery Co. vs.
Springfield Farmers' Elevator Co. Plain
tiff is suing for payment for a batch of
seed corn, which the defendant alleges
was not as represented.
Henry Schriefer vs. Ferdinand Hof
schild. Labor dispute over carpenter
work done by the plaintiff. The de
fendant, however, has put in a counter
claim to offset all the claims made by the
plaintiff.
Albert A. Paffrath vs. Herman F.
Wenzel. Case comes from Springfield
and is over a land transaction.
The only cases of real importance are
the Hoffmann-Wooldnck labor case and
the personal damage suit of Hesse against
the Northwestern road.
Last spring the calendar was a heavy
one, but court business seems to have
dwindled away since that time, the usual
heavy fall calendar last December
having been reduced to 35 cases and this
spring the number dropped to a scant
dozen.
Police headquarters may be estab
is in the Dietz block in rear of the
Fesenmaier grocery store in the near
future, if plans of several members of the
city council are carried out. A propo
sition to lease the place probably will
come up before the council at the ad
journed meeting Thursday evening.
ANTI-MILITARIST TO LECTURE
AT HANSKA FRIDAY.
The foremost figure in the anti
militarist propaganda in America today
is George R. Kirkpatrick, who will speak
at Liberal Union Hall, Hanska, Minn., at
8 o'clock April 12th. His book, "War,
What For?" has sent a thrill thru the
nation and has achieved a popularity
unequalled by any other book opposed
to war. It has taken front rank among
the vast number of books on socialism in
this country.
Up to the present time 150,000 copies
of this great book have been disposed of.
There has been an increased sale since
the outbreak of the war in Europe.
As a speaker Kirkpatrick is incom
parable. He holds his audience in a
grip of iron. He paints capitalism and
militarism to them with a vivid reality
that makes men and women forget
themselves and listen with breathless
attention to his cutting sarcasm, his
word pictures, his terrible indictment of
war and the commercialism which pro
duces war.
Kirkpatrick was graduated from Al
bion College (A. B.) He is a one year
graduate student (with paying scholastic
fellowship) in public finance, economics
and history, of Vanderbilt University,
and a one year graduate student in
sociology, education and economics of
the University of Chicago. Kirkpatrick
is a lecturer for the New York City
board of education an instructor in the
New York Rand School of Social Science,
and has taught college classes in sociology
and economics at various colleges and
universities.
Mr. Kirkpatrick comes to Hanska
under the auspices of the Socialist local
of that village in co-operation with the
national organization. Quite a number
of New Ulm people are planning to
motor out to Hanska Friday to hear the
noted speaker.
CROP REPORT SHOWS DECREASE
IN WINTER WHEAT.
According to the government May
crop report for the state of Minnesota,
compiled by the bureau of crop estimates
and transmitted through the U. S.
weather bureau last Monday the amount
of winter wheat planted this year shows
a decided decrease, the production last
year having been 1,170,000 and the
estimate only gives the state 885,000
bushels. The average throughout the
United States also shows a falling off,
but not so pronounced as that in the
state.
Spring plowing on May 1 was com
pleted to the extent of about 60 per cent,
which is up to the standard set by former
years. Spring planting is only finished
to the extent of 47 per cent, as compared
to 71 per cent last year and 66 per cent
for the ten-year average. The old hay
crop is estimated at about the same as
former years in the state, but the
balance of the country shows an increase
of at least 10 per cent over last year and
15* per cent over two years ago.
P. O. SLEUTHS AFTER YEGGMEN.
Postoffice sleuths are evidently de
termined to break up the gangs of
yeggmen who have been paying visits
to the post offices in various parts of the
country of late and have asked the co
operation of police officers in the matter
by asking them to take particular notice
of tramps traveling in gangs. It evi
dently is the belief of the department
that the robberies were committed by
hoboes rather than by professional
burglars. The great distances between
the post offices visited has led them to
believe that the tramps live on the pro
ceeds of their loot in their wanderings
and when they run short of funds re
plenish them by the simple expedient
of tapping a government till. Tramps
seem to be giving New Ulm a wide berth
for the past few weeks, only a few having
stopped off at the usual hangout near the
brickyards of late and still less have
ventured into the city. It is no unusual
sight, however, to see a dozen or more
on a single freight train passing through
the city.
ENGAGEMENT POSTPONED.
A special engagement will prevent the
Oberammergauer Peasant Players from
filling their date at Turner Hall next
Sunday. The troupe had been regularly
booked, but the advance man received
notice Monday that the company had
entered into a contract for a special
engagement in Chicago, which "made it
impossible to fill the local date. The
troupe will come to New Ulm, however,
at a later date and fill the engagement.
Eight fox cubs were captured recently
on the farm of Henry Reinhart in Cot
tonwood township. As the pelts of full
grown fox are worth a neat little sum,
Mr. Reinhart expects to try and raise
them and form a nucleus for a fox farm.
STATESKATONKELS
MEET IN NEW ULM
FOUR HUNDRED ENTHUSIASTS
EXPECTED TO TAKE PART IN
TOURNEY.
SPEDIAL TRAIN OVER M. & ST. L.
TO CARRY DELEGATION
FROM CITIES.
Officers of the New Ulm Skat Club
have been notified by the secretary of the
State Skat League that the annual mid
summer tournament will be held in New
Ulm on Sunday, June 4, the date being
selected a a recent meeting of the board
of directors. Henry Schreiner of St.
Paul, state secretary of the league, in
forms the local club that at least 200
players may be expected to participate
from the Twin Cities. A special train
has been arranged for by the Twin City
contingent over the M. & St. L.
Besides the players from the Twin
Cities it is expected that a great number
of players will come from the surround
ing towns. Mankato will furnish its
usual quota of from twenty to thirty
players and as many more may be ex
pected from the western part of the
county, so that in all about 400 players
will participate in the tournament. An
entrance fee of $1.00 will be charged
each player and the total pro rated
among the prize winners. First prize
probably will bring from $50 to $75, with
others ranging down to the $5.00 prize.
Arrangements have been made for the
use of Turner Hall gymnasium for the
occasion, where there will be room for
upward of a hundred tables. Should the
number be greater than anticipated ad
ditional tables will be placed in the
upstairs rooms. Two sessions will be
held, the first beginning at 2 o'clock in
the afternoon and the second at 7:30 in
the evening.
This is the first state tournament to be
held outside of the Twin Cities, although
New Ulm had been host to a number of
district tournaments, held under the
auspices of the local skat club.
The following committee was appoint
ed by the local skat club at its regular
weekly tournament last Monday even
ing, to have charge of the arrangements
for the state torunament: Otto Oswald,
Dr. J. P. Graff, Robert Williams, A. S.
Dorn and W. J. Julius.
The prize winners at the weekly tour
nament were the following: Robert
Williams, first prize, 15 net games
Joseph Sonntag, second prize, 529 net
points A. S. Dorn, third prize, club solo
against four matadors George Liesch,
special prize, grand with three matadors
and schneider.
MOTHER'S DAY PROCLAIMED BY
GOVERNOR.
Sunday, May 14«h, has been desig
nated as Mothers' Day by Governor J.
A. A. Burnquist and sermons appro
priate to the occasion will no doubt be
held in the several churches of the city
next Sunday. Custom provides that
sons and daughters should wear white
flowers on that day in memory of their
great friend and colored flowers in her
honor if she is living, or send a potted
plant to her as a gift.
The proclamation by Governor Burn
quist is as follows:
"Whereas, by joint resolution the
legislature of this state has designated
the second Sunday in May as Mothers'
day now, therefore, I, J. A. A. Burn
quist, governor of the state of Minnesota,
do hereby proclaim Sunday, May 14,
1916, as Mother's day, and urge that said
day be observed by appropriate public
exercises, and that we individually, in
some special way, pay tribute to our
mothers in recognition of their unselfish
devotion to us and of their refining and
self-sacrificing influence and the great
and noble service performed by them in
the preservation of the home and in the
development of good citizenship."
BOND ELECTION AT NICOLLET.
A special school election will be held
in the Consolidated School District No.
18 of Nicollet county, Wednesday, May
10th for issuing bonds in the sum of
$40,000 to be used for the reection of a
new consolidated school building in
Nicollet, and furnishing it in a modern
manner. The election will be held in the
Nicollet village hall and the polls will be
open from 2 to 6 p. m. Men and women
over twenty-one years of age will be
allowed to vote. Voters must hecitizens
of the United States, residents** the state
for six months and must have resided in
the district not less than thirty days.
•«SSS5#*
NEW ULM, BROWN COUNTY, MINNESOTA, WEDNESDAY, MAY 10, 1916.
BRIDGE DAMAGED
BY SPRINGFLOODS
ICE FLOES DAMAGE STRUCTURE
CROSSING COTTONWOOD
NEAR MILL.
CITY 13 OBLIGATED TO PAY
COST OF MAINTENANCE
I AND REPAIR.
Considerable damage was done to the
bridge over the Cottonwood river below
the Cottonwood mill by the outgoing
ice and it is believed that it will cost the
city several hundred dollars for repairs.
Six of the supporting braces under the
floor of the bridge have either been
broken off or the threads on the rods
damaged to such an extent that new
rods will be necessary and the nuts on
others are cracked so that they will have
to be replaced.
The damage was no doubt done by
an ice jam shortly after the river above
the dam began to break up. The
pressure must have been tremendous, as
the rods are about an inch thick.
Repair and repainting of the bridge
recently was brought up in a meeting of
the city council and the matter referred
to the street committee with instructions
to confer with the board of county com
missioners with a view of having the
county pay a part of the costs of repair.
A member of the board of commissioners
states, however, that while the bridge
was built jointly by the city and county,
it was agreed at the time that the main
tenance of the structure would devolve
upon the city. Whether or not this
agreement is in official form is not
known.
The other bridges leading into the
city also have been inspected within the
last few days, but are found in a good
state of repair. The lower Minnesota
river bridge which had been under water
for several weeks is not damaged at all
because the current at that place is not
very strong and the pressure upon the
structure was but slight. The other
bridges were not reached by the high
water, although the approaches to some
of them were slightly damaged.
The water in both of the Cottonwoods
has reached practically a normal stage,
but the Minnesota still is at a higher
stage than usual at this time of the year.
Many fields in the lowlands still are
under water and in many cases the
prospect of raising ca rop during the
coming season seems hopeless. Should
the waters recede, however, within a
reasonable length of time the hay crop
on these lands will be a bumper.
Roads along the bottoms are in a
passable condtition, but need a long
spell of dry weather to put them into
good condition.
COUNTY SEAT FIGHT PROBABLE
IN REDWOOD.
Agitation for the removal of the county
seat of Redwood county from Redwood
Falls to Wabasso is again renewed and
it is very probable that the matter will be
threshed out in a hot campaign in the
course of the year. The rather queer
part of it all is that Wabasso citizens do
not seem so eager to get into the county
seat classification than the other towns
of the county. They seem reluctant to
enter the fight on account of the expense.
The Lamberton Star comes out in
favor of the court house removal on the
grounds that the Rresent court house
buildings are in great need of repair. It
says:
It is no secret among those who
are in a position to know, that the
court house is actually in need of exten
sive repairs and that the building does
not afford enough room for the various
offices to properly handle their records.
The cost of the repairs will be sufficient
to pay half the cost of a new building.
That the court houes will ultimately be
located in the center of the county is as
certain as the fact that water will seek
its level. There is absolutely nothing
to be gained by delaying the removal to
Wabasso, the center of the county.
HEATING FRANCHISE READY.
Attorneys for the New Ulm Heating
Co. have completed the draft of an
ordinance which permits them to operate
in the city and use the alleys and streets
under certain restrictions and the instru
ment probably will be submitted to the
council at the next regular meeting. An
agreement between the company and the
city also has been drawn up, by which
the city agrees to sell the'exhaust steam
at the wate^^orka plant to the city at
the price recently tfgreed upon.
$8*
HIGH SCHOOL COMMENCEMENT
EXERCISES JUNE 5.
Friday, June 2, will be the last day
of school for the ^present term and the
class of 1916 will step' forth from the
local high school, having completed the
prescribed four-year course. Com
mencement exercises will be held the
Monday following the last day of school
and will take place at the Turner Theatre
in the evening.
The usual commencement program
will be carried out, consisting of the
valedictorian and salutatorian addresses,
vocal and instrumental musical selec
tions and an address. The speaker this
year will be Prof. A. J. Todd, head of
the department of sociology of the State
University and his subject will be
"Creating a New World, or In the Grip
of the Inevitable." Prof. Todd is no
stranger in New Ulm, having delivered
an address at the convention of the
State Society of Charities and Correction
last fall and being a visitor to the city on
several other occasions. The valedictory
and salutatory addresses will be given
by Stonia Kunze and Ruth Olsen, re
spectively, the two honor students of the
class of 1916.
There are thirty-four graduates in the
class of 1916, fifteen boys and nineteen
girls, as follows: Benj. Alwin, Winona
Alwin, Viola Backer, Francis Bastian,
Sherburn Beecher, Leo Berg, Minnie
Brust, Lucile Buschers, Hilton Durbahn,
Clara Epple, Agnes Gieseke, Edna
Knees, Stonia Kunze, Rose Lipp, George
Mayer, Arthur Miller, Reuben Moe,
Naomi Mueller, Harold Nagel, Oleta
Niemann, Ruth Olsen, Erma Palmer,
Mira Pederson, Leslie Peuser, Thomas
Pfaender, Lucy Pfefferle, Walter Puhl
mann, Fred Rolloff, Ellen Schoch, Annie
Thordson, Marguerite Vogel, Herbert
Wandersee, Gretchen Winkelmann and
Otto Zimmermann.
SCHOOL CHILDREN TO BE TOLD
STATE'S GREATNESS.
Superintendent of Public Instruction
C. G. Schulz, has sent to all of the
schools of the state a booklet containing
a lot of facts about Minnesota, which
it would not hurt even grown-ups to
klibw. These things are to be told the
children during the exercises held on
Minnesota Day, May 11.
Here are some of the facts taken from
the booklet:
From 6,077 in 1850, the population
grew to 172,123 in 1860.
A bushel of Minnesota corn will make
about ten pounds of pork when fed to
a hog.
If all the eggs laid in one day were
poured in one shell, it would make a
shell 20 feet long by 16 feet in diameter
and it would be worth $30,000.
Minnesota hoists more ore than Ger
many twice as much as England, and
three times as much as either France or
Spain.
The first sawmill was established near
Fort Snelling in 1821.
An army of 17,000 teachers directed
by 500 superintendents and 86 county
superintendents have charge of 471,137
school children.
"The purpose of this day," Mr.
Schulz said, "is to invite a study of
Minnesota in relation to its history, re
sources, natural features and industries,
and to promote a spirit of state patrio
tism."
CELEBRATE 50TH ANNIVERSARY.
The Swedish Lutheran Church of
Bernadotte, Nicollet county, celebrated
its golden anniversary Thursday and
Friday of last week, special programs
having been arranged for the mornings,
afternoons and evenings of both days.
Outside speakers were on the program,
among them the president of the Au
gustana Synod, Rev. A. L. Johnson of
St. Paul, Rev. P. A. Mattson, president
of the Minnesota conference of Cannon
Falls Rev. J. H. Nelson, Lake City
Rev. J. A. Gustavson, South St. Paul
Rev. G. O. Schroeder, Fargo, N. D.
Rev. O. J. Arthur, Mankato, and Rev.
N. O. Grundeth of Lafayette. The ar
rangements for the successful affair were
in charge of Rev. C. B. L. Boman, pastor
of the church, and a committee appointed
by the congregation. The Bernadotte
congregation is one of the oldest Swedish
Lutheran societies in the state, as well as
the largest in Nicollet county outside of
St. Peter.
MUTUAL COMPANIES EXEMPT.
Insurance Commissioner Works, who
recently returned from a trip to Wash
ington where he consulted head officials
of the internal revenue department in
regard to insurance matters, states the
department has ruled that mutual in
surance companies, particularly farmers'
mutual companies, will be exempt from
the requirement of putting internal
revenue stamps on their policies. The
ruling of 'the department exempts all
such companies as do not do business
for a profit.
PPMUIftH
mwrihto
MINNESOTA
-NSTORrCAL
SOCIETY
NUMBER 19
FOUR-YEAR TERMS
IN SUPREMECODRT
-ft
ARGUMENTS ARE HEARD TODAY"
ON CONSTITUTIONALITY OF
NEW LAW.
COUNTY OFFICIALS EXPECTING
DECISION ON MATTER THIS
WEEK.
County officials particularly and votersr
generally will be interested in the pro
ceedings before the state supreme court
today, when arguments will be heard on
the constitutionality of the four-year
term law passed by the 1913 legislature-
The matter is brought to the supreme
court by Fred Fischer of Buffalo,
Wright county, who attempted to file
as a candidate for county treasurer.
The county auditor refused to accept
the affidavit of nomination, holding that
there would be no vacancy in this or
any other county offices for another two
years.
The legislature of 1913 provided for a
four-year trem for county officers. The
present incumbent in the office of county/
treasurer was elected in November,
1914, and, according to the new law,
would hold office until January, 1919.
The attorney for the prospective can
didate contends that the constitution*
fixes the term of county officers at two
years and that the legislature had no
right to change it to four years.
It is said that an association of county
auditors of the state has been formed and
raised money for the purpose of de
fending the act of the legislature. Pro
minent counsel, among them C. D_
O'Brien of St. Paul and State Senator G..
H. Sullivan of Stillwater, have beent
engaged to represent the Wright county
auditor before the supreme court.
Interest in the case is the greater be
cause the supreme court only last week
declared unconstitutional the extension
of the term of clerk of courts, holding
that the constitution fixed the terms at
four years, without specifically stating
in which years the terms shall begin or
end.
County officials, on the other hand
contend that a change from four to two
years would not only be a repeal of the
1913 law, but also a rank injustice to the
present incumbents of county offices.
All were nominated and elected with the
understanding that they would hold,
office for four years. Many have made
disposition of their business interests to»
cover that period of time, some event
having entered into leases of homes for
four years at the county seat. The
campaign of 1914 was conducted on the
four-year term proposition and candidates
expended money in proportion.
The four-year law was passed by the
legislature upon the instigation of office
holders throughout the state, many of
whom had been in office a good many
years already and to whom the biennial
recurrence of the election became mo
notonous and regarded as a superfluous
expense and burden. There had been
no general demand for the change from
two to four years by the people of the
state, although at the time of its adop
tion there was but little opposition to it.
It is confidently expected that the
supreme court will rush a decision of the
case, because the time for filing for
county offices expires May 30. Should
the law be declared unconstitutional there
will be a scramble of candidates to get
into the game, not only confined to
present incujmbents.
JOHNSON SPEAKS AT FAIRMONT
MEMORIAL DAY.
Fairmont has called upon New Ulm
to furnish the people of that city the
speaker of the day on Memorial Day,
Fred W. Johnson having accepted an
invitation to speak at the exercises in
the Martin county city. Speaking of
the choice of the committee the Fairmont.
Sentinel says:
"J. T. Swearingen, chairman of the
Memorial Day committee, obtained a.
telephone acceptance from Fred W
Johnson of New Ulm to deliver the
Memorial Day address at the opera
house, in Fairmont, May 30th.
"Fred Johnson is a brother of Gov.
John A. Johnson, deceased. In many
ways besides looks he resembles the
latter. He has strong mental endow
ments, has been a great student, and at
times rises to brilliant heights of oratory.
"The committee is fortunate in secur
ing his services and the people are to be
congratulated upon having an opportu
nity to hear him.
"Mr. Johnson's acceptance means a
successful celebration of one of the most
§m
Hi
"I
I
?i, LiM^^jjfcgggrfW
