UNIVERSITY MISSOURIAN
.'
EIGHTH YEAR
NEWYORK SYMPHONY
WINS IUUUDIEICE
Crowd Small but Apprecia
tive Applauds Walter Dam
rosch's Work.
COLUMBIA, MISSOURI, WEDNESDAY, MAY 10, 1916
1 1 OEM ANN IS PLEASING
Pianist Responds With Five
Encores Phi Mu Alpha
Season a Success.
Walter Damroseh, unlike a temper
amental Englishman who once so
journed among us, apparently does
not Hindi at the enthusiastic' Ameri
can hands which seem to shriek, "We
must have more; we must have more."
He returned again and again to his
audience at the New York Symphony
Orchestra concert in the University
Auditorium last night to bow his
thanks and to giv? generously of his
high art.
Mr. Damrosch's baton is always con
scions of the audience which will not
he left behind, and Mr. Damrosch
turns frequently in triumph or in as-
NUMBER 217
CLUB LUXCIIEOX TO.MOKKOW
Business Jlen's .Membership Commit
tee Will Tell of Campaign.
The Commercial Club will hold its
weekly luncheon at the Gem Cafe at
noon tomorrow. There will be speeches
by the vice-president and the nine
chairmen of the membership commit
tees. Keach chairman will talk three
minutes.
The men who will speak are: W. L.
Kelson, vice-president; X. I). Evans,
W. B. Xowell, Jr., E. M. Watson, V.
C. Knight, I). W. B. Kurtz. Jr., D. H.
Doane, E. C. Anderson, Odon Guitar,
Jr., and J. I'. Hetzler.
"Everyone is invited to be present
whether a member or not." said C O.
I lanes, secretary, today.
ON STAND
Physician Accused by Stu
dent Detective of Writing
Illegal Prescriptions.
DAMROSCH DEBITS PARENTS
FOR LOW CLASS OF MUSIC
"Why has the American public the
reputation of being a frivolous, rag
time appreciating audience?"
"Do I think that the American peo
ple are beginning to appreciate music
more? Yes. I hae been directing
As h' thought of the question, the I orchstras for thirty-one years and am
keen .gray eyes of Walter Damrosch, j '" position to make this statement
director of the New Vork Symphony lautltoritatlwly. But the development
Orchestra, whicli gave a concert in the l f musical appreciation lias only be-
University Auditorium, last night. nar-,Kun. lafie. for instance, the city of I
THE WEATHKK
sS,s,srl(nISEB TAKES BLAME
1. ' ""'' '" strung shifting Winds.
ilIti, ,""rl: Generally fair tonight
: ' lnri, V5""''ly.i mUU C"U'r tuniBllt. cooler
'"irsd i sii, ..! extreme east portions.
rowed, and lie gave the answer to the
question with much vigor and convic
tion. "It is the fault of the American par
ents. They are not particular enough
with their children in a musical way.
You will find that parents insist that
New York, where out of i, 0(10,000 peo
pi? there are possibly 100,000 who en
oy. appreciate and understand sym
phonic music. Tliis leaves 2,!inn,nu0
who are in Egyptian darkness, lack
ing the finer sensibilities of man, par
ticularly that of musical appreciation.
"What the Europea.ii war will do for
their cliililron li rnme .-iciiimililcil with I
the best of literature. Thev will not I '-' nral world no one can say, as
allou them to read anUhing which is """ k,lows ' s contribution to
trashv or sensational. Thev teach the'"" '"lomnent of humanity will be.
-music is a Harmonic expression or life
Nkdched uliile
oiT-sluge.
the pianist rested
sistance. It was eident that if he
does not consider the audience the
thing, he never forgets that it is an
active factor in the life of a great or-
0 stral organization.
Til ' "Symphony in G .Minor" was
warmly received, but witli the Prelude
to "lolicngriii," Damrosch came into
his own. It has been said that when
one hears Damrosch one thinks Wag
ner, so deeply imbued has the loader
beccme with the spirit of that mighty
composer. In all his work is to be
found the same large energy, bold
melodic line, freedom of progression,
ardor and amplitude. Damrosch never
condescends to emphasize the merely
romantic. Aftrr the "l-ohengrln," the
orchestra gave an extra number, "Piz
zicato from Coppelia-Delibes."
Josef Hofmaun, the "world's great
est living pianist," was recalled so
many times that the grateful grew sor
rowful and the greedy were ashamed.
He gave five encore numbers, includ
ing "Romance," Schumann; "Inter
mezzo," Brahms; "I.a Campanella,"
Liszt: "Prelude in G Minor," Rach
maninoff. His final bow was received
with a clamor of appreciation.
The concert closed with Grainger's
new orchestral settings for some jolly
old fiddle tunes, "British Folksongs
and Dances."
The Phi Mil Alpha concert series
for lltir.-lfi, which closed last night,
was a financial and artistic success,
the management said today.
Tho attendance at last night's pro
gram, however, was discouraging.
Only about 1,000 persons were pres
ent, a much smaller number than was
expected hy the directors of the series.
This concert was the only one at
which the attendance was lacking.
Dr. II B. Almstcdt, director of the
series, is estimating the total attend
ance and receipts for the whole pro
gram. The results tfll be made
known in a few days, but it is practi
cally certain that the Phi Mu Alpha
lost nothing.
Dr. George A. Bradford this aftrr
noon took the stand in his own behalf
to answer the charge of writing ille
gal liquor prescriptions brought
against him in the Circuit Court by
Prosecuting Attornew W. M. Dinwid
dle. The case, in which many well-known
Columbians were witnesses, went to
the jury late this afternoon.
Tlie state attempted to show that
Doctor Bradford sold liquor prescrip
tions to I). B. Curtis, a student detec
tive for the young people's branch of
the W. C. T. U. Curtis in his testi
mony said that Doctor Bradford sold
him four prescriptions on March S,
lf. 24 and ::i for ."0 cents each. He
said he went to the Virginia Pharmacy
and got the liquor, representing four
quarts of whisky. Th? whisky was
offered as evidence.
The defense attempted to prove that
Curtis obtained the prescriptions by
telling Doctor Bradford that he had
rheumatism in his leg and that he
wanted the whisky to bathe his leg.
In the audience were many members
of the W. C. T. U. who paid car' fill at
tention to tlie testimony. Some of
tho members took notes of the pro
ceedings. Other court proceedings today:
In the case of John M. Fountain
against G. M. Williams and others, a
suit on note, the defendants were
granted an appeal to tlie Kansas City
Court of Appeals.
Georgia Schowengert was granted a
divorce from Leo T. Schowengsrt and
was also awarded the custody of their
two children.
Attorneys for Boy Iteeso and
Charles Stockdale, both convicted and
sentenced at the last term of court
for larcency, made application for
paroles. The plea will be heard by
the court Friday.
James Henderson and Sylvester
Mitchell, both negroes, charged with
robbing the pool hall of Izora Jackson,
pleaded guilty. Henderson was sen
tenced to four years and Mitchell two
years In the state penitcnitary.
Curt Reeves, a negro charged with
stealing chickens, was sentenced to
sixty days in the county jail.
Ada G. Strode was granted a divorce
from Charles H. Strode. The court or
dered the defendant to pay ' $lfi a
month alimony.
The case of the Columbia Box Com
pany against John Bland was dismiss
ed by the plaintiff.
A judgment of $S1.73 was granted to
tho Cudahy Packing Company In the
case against T. II. Woods et al.
The divorce case of William Haney
against Oney Haney was taken under
advisement.
children to appreciate the best in
paint, d art, but at tlie same time their
sons ami daughters musical tastes
ire being allowed to run to cheap and ,
vulgar ragtime music.
"1 cannot strongly enough urge the
parents of American children to teach
them to appreciate th? classic in
music as well as in literature and art
and to guide them away from the
trashy."
Tlie director of the symphony or
ganization is a big man, physically,
and a pleasant one. As he stepped off
th- train at the Wabash station he
stopped to "jolly" some of his men.
and of the age in which it is written.
Then the music after the war will ro
lled the changes of life in Europe
and the United Stat s."
"Has the war sent European musi
cians to this country?"
Mr. Damrosch looked at a group of
his musicians as he repeated the ques
tions, and they nodded assent.
I "Why, you could not hit a ball in
I any direction in New York without hit
ting a foreign pianist. Th y are all
over in this country. Many real ar
tists are out of employment because
the supply of musicians is greater
than the demand for them."
I renii in mriili" ..- t .i . ..,..,.
uiiuliiNliiiiK liy Thursday.
Weather Condition-..
Tlie Jlocky -Mountain disturbance Is now
tr, "m'.'.r !!ls',K'r-'le i-eu-rity. It Is een
iii.. i 4r UI""lI,t-. I'Ut Its Influence
stretches SUtltllWanl. Im.Ik.11...- ..IT .. .1...
territory from the Kooky .Mountains to Ihe
! ,V ''' !""' s'uest states. It is!
Pi .,. . B, ","u, ,"ut precipitation
- i.ii ii.i itvt-ii (-iminiHii in thii !.
ern states from .Montana to tlie Lukes.
A well funned high pressure wae Is
ftillouiiiK in the storm's uake. accom-
ii.-imeu i,y eieaniis ami much cooler
1X-.IIUIT. neavy to Killing rrot occurred
last nlB,t In flab. Xeviid., and Idaho.
Ill Coillllllli.l till V..-itli..r Mill I-. .1
lied and stormy during the first part of
i. .j- urn iiiuij-Kii noiirs, aim generaiiy
fair during the latter part. It will lie
much cooler tonight.
Local Data.
The highest temperature in Columbia
ji-slerday was M and the lowest last
uiglit was 1; precipitation, .HI; relatiie
huiiildity p. in. yesterday, :ir per cent.
A .war ago jesterday the highest tempera
ture was CS, and the lowest ill: nreciid
t.illou, .m I.
The Almanac.
Sun rose today, 5:01 a. in. Sun sets.
T:P p. in.
.Moon sets, 1 :M a. m.
The Temperature Tida.
7 a. m. 7:". 11 a. in. 72
S a. ui. 7i; li' in. fiS
! a. in. 7! 1 p. in. 7::
10 a. m. 7!) p. in. 74
XEGKOES STILI
But
CLAIM LIQUOR
STEWARTTOAMHERSTSUBMITSPATRDLPLAN
Scott, Also of Economics Fac- General Scott Informs War
ulty, Will Do Graduate ' Department of Obrejrpn's
Work at Harvard. j Proposition.
i
liy fiiitcd Press.
EL PASO, Tex., May 10. General
Scott announced this afternoon that
he had submitted the plan for the
patrol of the Mexican horded sug
gested by General Obregon to the War
Department.
The proposition is said to be that
each nation shall keep its troops on
Walter W. Stewart, associate profes
sor of economics in the University,
whoso resignation was announced
several wetks ago, will go next fall
to Amherst College instead of joining
the faculty of tlie University or Chica
go, as lie has first intended. At Am
herst, Amherst, Mass., he will he full
professor of economics. Witli .Mrs.
Stewart and their children he will i its own side of the border.
spend tlie summer with his rather near Later today. General Funston said
Colorado Springs, Colo. I that the prospects were good for a
Mr. Stewart was irradn.-ile.I from tin-i f:ixi,r:ll,lu conclusion of the HOgotia-
University of Missouri witli the A. B.
"lice Mate Xt Yd Accepted
"Ownership" Explanation.
So far the police have done nothing
with the liquor that was taken early
yesterday morning at Moore's Switch
from an automobil-- coining Into tlie
city from Moberly.
The two n groes, John Scott and
Bruz Kelly, who were in the car are
still being held by tlie police. Both
negroes have refused to say anything
about the liquor, exept that they were
bringing it in for their own private
use.
George S. Starrett, city attorney,
holds the opinion that Xoah would not
have taken that much liquor with him
jnto the ark, and he believes that some
white persons financed the ill-fated
expedition.
Formally Admits That Ger
man Submarine Was the
Cause of Disaster.
NOTE NOW ON WAY
Message Said to Promise Re
paration and Punishment
of U-Boat Captain.
ISy United Press.
WASHINGTON'. .May 10. The Kais
er formally admitted this afternoon
that the Sussex was sunk by a Ger
man U-boat.
A full disavowal, ample reparation
for the loss or lives and satisfactory
punishment of the commander of the
German submarine who was respon
sible for the disaster, are said to be
promised in the note which Ambassa
dor Gerard is sending to the State
Department from Berlin.
So Action on Cjnirlc Likely.
y United I'ress.
WASHINGTON, May 10. The Uni
ted States is not likely to take any
action regarding the sinking of the
steamer Cymric -Monday with the loss
of five lives.
No Americans were jeopardized by
the sinking of the vessel. Consul
Frost of Qucenstown has cabled the
State Department that the ship was
not warned before its sinking. It was
not in the service of the admiralty.
I'KANK ALMOST LKll To TKOI'ltLK
degree in l'.Mltl, and lat r did graduate
work and taught at the University of
Michigan. His work in economics has
been widely recognized.
Announcement was made today also
that Dlt Scott, an instructor in the
economics faculty, has be n granted
a year's leave of absence to do gradu
ate work at Harvard. .Mr. Seott will
have one of the Austin teachers' schol
arships. He is a graduate of the Uni
versity of Missouri, A. B. and B. S. in
J. '10, and, witli Mr. Stewart, taught
at the University of Michigan.
lions.
1'. S. Will lake Xo Chances.
ISy United Press.
WASHINGTON, May 10. The ad
ministration is not taking any chances
with President Carranza or .Mexico.
It is thought that the movement of
the 7,000 additional regulars and mi
litiamen to the border yesterday called
the bluff of General Obregon. The
troop movements are continuing to
day.
TKAUIIEKS TO ('OXt'L'K SATUKDAV
Time of Hiding Is S::tl) A. m. ami
Sot I 31.
The annual conference of teachers
in accredittd schools and in the Uni
versity, under the direction of Presi
dent A. Boss Hill, will he held in t!r
University Auditorium at S:::u a. in.
Saturday, and not at S:."!0 p. in., as
previously announced. Tlie subject
will be "Tho Junior High School and
Its Itelaticn to the Senior High School
and the University." The discussion
will be led by Prof. J. D. Elliff.
i'ltkk vim:s imks of i.n.iukiks
wnnioiixi:, litisii i.oim, quits
He Had Been Under Fire Because of
Dublin Outbreaks.
I!v 1 tilted Press.
I-ONDON, May 10. I-ord Wim
borne. l.onl Lieutenant of Ireland, un
der severe criticism because of the
Dublin outbreaks, resigned late today.
MISS PHILLIPS TO BE X.lItMEI)
Emm Fulton fo Hear Orchestra.
Miss Helen Shotwell. teacher of
music at Hardin College, Mexico, Mo.,
is visiting her sister. Miss Martha
Shotwell. Others who came for the
N'ew York Symphony Orchestra con
cert last night are Prof. Arnold E.
Ouerns of the conservatory of music.
Misses Ituth Covington, Maude Bar
bee. Elizabeth Morgan, Frances Gup
ton. I.utie Pigg and Clara Pearman.
rnhcrsify Alumna to Wed E. T. Ken
nedy, Also a Graduate.
Invitations have been received here
to the wedding of Miss Elizabeth Pem
berton Phillips, A. B. '12, and F. T.
Kennedy. B. S. in M. E. '11, which will
take place May 10 at the home of the
bride's parents, C,2iS Waterman ave
nue. St. Louis.
Miss Phillips' father. Hiram Phillips,
received the degree of T. E. from the
University in 'SO and the degree of C.
E. In '31. He is a consulting enginei-.
In St. Louis.
Mr. Kennedy's latest address in the
alumni records is Trinidad, Colo.,
where he is employed by the Trinidad
Foundry and Machine Company. His
home is at Sedalia.
Schulte to Address T. W. C. A.
Tho regular meeting of the Y. W. C.
A. will be held at 7 o'clock tomorrow
ciening at Bead Hal' - -. will be
r. talk by Coac' e on "A
Girl's Influen isic will
complete tin
Voting Son of I'liitersitj' Professor
Buried This Afternoon.
Peter Hayes Viles, l years old, the
son of Prof, and Mrs. Jonas Vi'as, 51."!
Itcllins street, died at C o'clock Ia.-.t
nii-ht, from injuries received Sumliy
when he was struck by an automobile.
An operation was performed at Par
ker Memorial Hospital by Dr. Max W.
Myer. At lirst some hope for recovery
was held but the child was injured in
ternally. Th? exact nature of the in
juries is not known.
Tlie accident occurred as Peter was
on his way to Sunday School. As he
crossed the street at the intersection
of Conley avenu? and Maryland place
he ran Into an automobile driven by C.
B. Rollins, Jr. Mr. Rollins swerved
in an attempt to avoid striking the
child but he was caught on the run
ning board and dragged under the rear
wheel. The accident was unavoidable.
The funeral was held from the VHs
home at :'. o'clock this afternoon. Tlie
Rev. W. W. Elwang conducted tlie sim
ple services. Burial was in Elmwood
Cemetery.
.Mexican "Bad Man" Killed.
!'" United I'ress.
MARATHON, Tex., .May 10. De
mitrio Garza, the "bad man" of the Big
Bend country, was killed near Dee
niors, Tex., yesterday in an engage
ment with two American cavalrymen.
It is said that Garza was tho leader
of the recent raid on Glenn Springs.
TIGERS LOSE TEX.MS MATCH
Central College Team Wins Both Sta
ple But Drops Doubles.
Ihe Central College tennis team
won both single matches from the
University team yesterday afternoon,
but lost tho doubles match.
Captain Fr.d Loomis was defeated
in straight sets by Stutsman. C-2 and
7-.1, and Jesse lost to Ginn, C-2 and C-l,
after winning the first set, fi-2.
In the doubles Ioomis and Williams
for .Missouri had rather an easy time
disposing of Ginn and Stutsman, win
ning in straight sets, C-3 and -.
Stephens College Plans lEct-itaR
The graduation recital of Misses
.Mabel Ringer and Lou Eva Longan,
pianists, and I.ena Brandom, reader,
will be given tomorrow night at the
Stephens College Auditorium. Other
recitals for the week will be as fol
lows: Friday night. Misses Ruth
Callison and Gertrude Buckley; Sat
urday night. Misses AHrnc Sanford
and I.ela Parkin.
.Stephens College Barbecue Postponed.
The students of Stephens College
are firm believers in the weather bu
reau. The annual uaroccue, wnicn
was to hav? been held this afternoon,
was postponed because the weather
man had scheduled rain for today. The
event will be held some time next
werk at the Shcpard farm, a mile and
a half southeast of town.
State Printing J'ontract Is Let.
Th? contract for the state printing
for six years was awarded yesterda
to the Hugh Stephens Printing Com
pany of Jefferson City by the state
printing commission. Tlie contract
for furnishing the state with paper
was awarded to the Graham Paped
Company of St. Louis. Paul Hunt of
Jfferson City received the contract
for the state stationery
.Students Elee Wind's Mischief.
A giant limb was blown fmm
tree near the Palms this morning. At
the time several students were be
neath the branches, and there was a
general scattering. No one was hurt.
Ilible College Trustees Meet.
The Board of Trustees of the Bible
Colleg3 of Missouri is holding its an
nual meeting today in the Bible Col
lego building. The board is compos
ed of the following: Palmer Clarkson.
St. I,ouis; William A. Bright. Colum
bia; James M. Batterton, Columbia;
George II. Combs, Kansas City; James
H. Garrison, St. Louis; French II.
Glenn, X vada; P. II. Bca, Marshall;
John II. Wood, Shelbina; Robert A.
I-ong, Kansas City; John T. Mitchell,
Jefferson 'City; David A. Hobnctt, Co
lumbia; Robert Graham Frank, Lib
erty, and Richard II. Emberson, Columbia.
('. ('. Has Ceramics Exhibit.
An exhibit of ceramics from the
Christian College School of Art is be
ing shown in the window of Buch
roeder's store. The annual art exhibit
will be held in the Christian College
studio the afternoon and evening of
.May 2C. The students in the School of
Home Economics will have an exhibit
of work at the same time.
Two M. I. Students Borrowed Car;
Would Ihne Been Good Joke If
Hartley McVey and Frederick N'ied-
ermeyer. University students who live
in Columbia, were wandering down
Broadway last night looking for some
one to take them for a motor car ride.
In front of the Columbia Theater an
automobile belonging to Misses Alice
and Lorraine Furtncy was parked.
McVey and Niedermeyer are friends
of the girls. What a good joke to
"swipe" tlie auto and go for a breezy
spin around the block. Tlie ride was
taken and the car was returned to the
curb, up the street from where it had
been.
About midnight McVey, who lives in
the Dumas Apartments, was awakened
by a loud pounding on his door.
'This is the law," a masculine voice
told him. "I want McVey for stealing
a motor car." No explanations were
possible.
Niedermeyer, too, was called out of
bed and the two were taken to the
police station by Policeman James
Fenton.
Telephone explanations were neces
sary. It developed that the car in
front of the theater was the Furtney
car, but was driven hy the father' of
the girls, C. W. Furtney, who, when
he discovered his car had been re
moved, notified the police.
Someone had seen McVey and Nied
ermeyer in the automobile; hence tho
midnight arrests. The students were
released afted Mr. Furtney had been
told the details of the "theft."
HAVE YOU ROOMS EOK KEXTJ
Jit hankers Here fur Games.
The University of Kansas baseball
team, headed by Coach I B. McCarty,
arrived in Columbia late today for
two games with the Tigers. The Jay
hawkers are carrying twelve men.
Tomorrow's game starts at 4 o'clock.
Benton Hall Loses to Jeff Club.
The Benton Hall baseball team met
its lirst defeat yesterday afternoon
when it lost to tho Jefferson Club, 13
to 7. The batteries were Walter God
love and E. L. Morris for the Jeffer
son Club and T. C. Morelock and A. C.
Boefer for Benton Hall. The civil en
gineers were scheduled to play the
faculty team this afternoon.
C. 0. Unites Seeks Accommodation for
High School Bay Visitors.
C. O. I lanes, secretary of the Com
mercial Club, wishes that persons hav
ing rooms to accommodate the people
who will come to Columbia for High
School Day nxt Saturday would
phone him at 101)9, or see him at the
Commercial Club Booms as soon as
possible. When calling please specify
whether the room has all modern con
veniences, single or double beds. Mr.
Danes says that he will notify the per
sons that have the rooms for rent be
fore any one is sent to them..
Bryan Pacifism to Be Discussed.
The Int rnational Polity Club will
have its last meeting of the year at
7:.10 o'clock tonight in Boom I). Y. M.
C. A. Building. Prof. Manley o. Hud
son will lead the discussion on the
subject, "Why I am not a Bryan paci
fist." The election of officers for next
Tea to Help Pay for Church Piano, year will take place.
The Mothers' Class of the Christian
Church will give a tea at the church , Si-iihtor WalKer Still rnronsciiiiis.
at 3 o'clock tomorrow afternoon, Im-! Former Sir.te Senator Charles J.
mediately after a meeting of the C. W. j Wclktr, Ci2 Turner avenue, who was
B. M. The money raised will be used stricken with paralysis at 9 o'clock
to help pay for the piano the Mothers'
Class secured for the Sunday school.
yesterday nt- iplng, was still uncons
cious this morning.
Maupin Elected to Student Senate. Ardzroonl Operated On.
Curtman Maupin of Pattonsburg , Leon Ardzrooni, instructor In eco-
was elected yesterday afternoon by j nomlcs In the University, was operated
the sophomore academic students to on at noon today at Parker Memorial
serve two years on the Student Senate. Hospital for acute appendicitis.
!l
m
m
