THE BAR-EE DAILY TIME
VOL. XX NO. 48.
BARHK, VERMONT, WEDNESDAY, MAY 10, 191G.
PIUCE, ONE CENT.
1
ONE, ATTACK"
REPULSED
French Threw Back German
Assault Between Oise
And The Aisne
ARTILLERY DUEL
LESS VIOLENT
East of the Meuse 'There
Was Only Intermittent
Big Gun Fire
VERMONT NURSES IN CONFERENCE.
Miss Flora Landon of Burlington New
President of Association.
Burlington, May 10. The second an
niiHl mooting of the Vermont State
Nurses' association was liehl yesterday
afternoon and evening on the roof gar
den of the Hotel Vermont with an at
tendance of 3." members. The Rev. C.
C. Adams, pastor of the First church of
this pity, opened the afternoon meeting
with prayer, and the retiring president,
Miss Mary E. Schumacher of Brattle-
boro, delivered the president's address.
The following oflieers were elected for
the coming year.' President, Miss Flora
I.andon, Hurlington ; first vice-president,
Miss Klsio Pease, Hurlington ; second vice
president, Miss Margaret T. Jxmther,
Burlington; secretary and treasurer,
Miss Florence K. Miller, Burlington; as
sistant secretary, Miss Minnie Roddy of
Kutland. ' .Mrs. .lane lower and JMiss
Mabel E. Stevens of Hurlington were
elected directors. These officers, witn
Miss Catherine Allison and Miss Helen
L. Little, whose terms as directors do not
expire until 1017, will constitute the -x-ecutive
board of the association. The
p..;. Afn v inder.ivitv on the Ver- association eiecxea i new memuers. n
J 1.1, .1., . ,
, . ,. , , . ,.,i ;., n was voted to hold the next annual meet
turn front has decreased, according to, , m
o ln , Bratt eboro on the second Tucs-
tno war oince statement, w-uay. jw ja -m jtav
urtillery action west of the Mcuso was Following the business meeting, the
?ss pronounced nnd east of the river it members of the association dined in a
wa only intermittent. An attack on the "uy note., i. ne evening oc-
v , i . , , n- j eupicd with an exhibition of motion pic-
ADMITS
SUSSEX
ATTACK
That Is Said to Be Tenor of
New Note Which Berlin
Government Has Deliy
ered to Ambassador Ger
ard and Which is Now On
the Way to Washington
ture films concerning the different phases
of public health nursing furnished by
the Jsew Vork state board of health. The
the Aiflne, was repulsed.
"Very Serious Losses" for Germans
The official communication issued by Petures showed the different problems
the French war office last night reads: which must be. faced by the person en-
"In Champagne our artillery shelled PKfti in V"hh health nursing, and were
the trenches and batteries of the Ger- of remarkable interest and value to the
mans north of Ville sur Tourbe and the audience, l ne ermont Mate associa
enemy communications in the region of tjn is now affiliated with the American
isomnie-i'y.
"On the left bank ot the jucuse tne League for Nursing Education.
m. f th Aur, enemv attack Tne second annual meeting of the Ver-
..;...f. V.t of Kill mi wa mo"t State league for Nursing Educn
stopped short by our curtain of fire and tion- .whos eml"MP jf restricted to
wai not able to doliouch. superintendents of hospitals and training
"On the right bank and in the Woevre schools, recognized by the state rcgistra
l.e irtilWv aetinn wa intermittent. tion, assistant superintendents and in
"Latest reports show that on the night struetora in nursing, was held yesterday
of Mav 8 and f the Germans launched in afternoon at the Hotel ermont. follow
the region of hill 304, three verv violent '"g the business meeting of the Vermont
attacks, which were carried out by heavy State Nurses' association. The follow
effectives one, reported in the commit- "g officers were elected: President, Miss
nication of this morning, against our po- name Douglass ot uurnngton, vue
sitions on hill 287, another against our president, Miss Elizabeth Hennessey of
trenches northwest ot hill 304, and the Brattleboro; secretary and treasurer
Inst against the wood to the west. All Miss Caroline M. Swilt of Burlington
these attacks, broken by our fire, cost the Eight new members were received into
adversary very serious losses. jthe association, which now has a total
"Our batteries took under their fire, membership of 15 and is affiliated with
revictualling convoys and enemy detach- the National League of Nursing Educa-
inents on the road between Kssey and tion. The next meeting of the league
Bayonville, northwest of Pont a Moms- will be a quarterly one, which will lie
son. held in St. .Johnsbury in August
HAS PUNISHED
THE COMMANDER
Moreover, The German Gov
ernment Is Said To Have
Promised To Make Repar
ation, Semi-official Des
patch Is Said To Establish
That Sussex Was Attacked
By German Submarine
MORE GERMAN GAINS.
WAS BORN IN VERMONT.
And Repulse for German Detachments
Claimed. Robert S. Perkins, 88, Died in Tilton, N.
Berlin, May lO.-Tbe Germans have H- Where He Was Prominent,
made further progress on Hill 304 on the Tilton, N. H.. May 10. Robert San
Verdun front and have driven back born Perkins, 88, died at his home hero
French detachments southwest of tin last night. He was born in Whcelock.
hill, says the war office. . Vt. coming to Loudon in his boyhood
.' ' with his parent. He was educated in
RPTTTQIT TlU'CJT'RfiV'lT'l? 'hools of that town and later at the
intuitu lCrailVUlEiK. Tilton geminarv. which was then located
BADLY DAMAGED " .t w,nBi-
" He came to this town about ISti.i and
While the German Boats Were Un- engaged in the fire insurance business,
harmed in Engagement Off Belgian !n fa" '. ,8,i8' which business he
. had been active up to the time of his
coast, According to Benin fciory. death. He was probably one of the old
.. . . . ,r . est active insurance agents in this state.
,, ,,. with the exception of a few years he
onrr'i irnmnnt an thn Ifolman tenant nn 1 . . . .
V. i i A , " ., . , imd rosulcd in thw town for the past iiall
; T; -V- V j V I centurv, during which time he had been
...,,,., " j ery active political leader. A life long
imu.y u.ugeu uy , . i...v re, Democrat, he had served his town in
nig M) a verinHn aumiraity announce
ment. The German boats were not dam-t'ged.
Washington, D. C, May 10. Secretary
of State fansing received a message,
from Ambassador Gerard to-day, giving
notice that a new note on the Sussex
caise had been handed him and was on
the way to Washington. It has been in
Unrated that the German governmen
now admits attacking the Sussex, gives
notice that the submarine commander re
sponsible wag punished and promises to
make reparation.
Amsterdam, via London, Mar 10. A
semi-official dispatch says that as the re
suit of German investigation concerning
the tSussex it can no longer be doubted
that the vessel was torpedoed by a Ger
man submarine on the supposition that
it was a warship.
121ST ANNUAL MEETING
DRIVEN BACK BY TURKS.
Russian Detachment Beaten in a Sur
prise Attack.
many ways. He was one of the original
members and founders of Trinity Epis
copal cfhttrch and held a office in that
church at the time "of his death. Hu
served as the local postmaster for two
terms under Grover Cleveland. When he
first came here lie was for a time the
local agent for the old U. 8. and Canada
Constantinople, Mav 10. The official express company, now the American J-.x-
Sta'tement says an attack on the Caucas Ire8S company, until he was succeeded
us front bv an enemv company was beat- hY ll18 brother, the late Seebina C. IVr-
en back with great enemy losses. The k"18- His who died nearly 40 years ago,
enemy detachment was thrown back in Moving nuopiea uaugiuer.
the direction of Kirvaz by a surprise at- Mr- I'erkins was the last of his far
tack.
SHOOK HANDS WITH LAFAYETTE.
LAWYER ARRESTED.
ily, except the following nephews and
nieces: Mrs. Frank Holt, D. Perkins
Wheeler, Miss Anna Wheeler and Mi8
Florence Harvev of Concord; Ned W.
Charles W. Farnham, Native of Wood- Perkins of Franklin; Fred B. Perkins of
, . . mt n w it An" Arbor, Mich.; and Rav H. Perkins
stock. Died at Dover, a. H. . , , . : . ...
' ot Tilton and t.Tiarles K. W icher of Man
Dover, X. H., May 10. Charles W. chester; two grandchildren, Mrs. Gladys
Farnham, the oldest resident in this city, Perkins Fogg Benedict of Concord and
died yesterday at the home of Mrs. Hen- Robert Perkins Foog of Lexington, Mas.
litta Holt, 7 Cedar street, at the age of .
'.'7 years.
He was born March 14, 1819, at Wood
toclc, Vt., son of Jeremiah and Martha char ed Crirflinai Libe, in Connec
(Perkins) larnham. When three vcars
,Id he moved with his wents to South uon w,Ln 1JU-UUU ouu-
lierwick, Me., and six years later to
ltrdlinsford. He attended the public
schools in Rollinsford and this city and
for a time was a student at South lier
wick academy.
He later moved to Lebanon, Me., where
for a numlier of years he wag engaged
in farming. After a few years he came
to this city and was employed as a
weaver in the Cocheeo Manufacturing
company. After a numler of years he
lxdight a farm m-ar Granite State park.
He lived there until his first wife died,
then he moved to Springfield, Mass.
About I. years ago he returned to this
city.
Mr. Farnham had the distinction for
lnanv year of being the only living per !
urn in this eitv hu had the ph-aMire of
coming into personal cntact with Gen.
Ijiiavette hen lie viitcd this citv in
Mr. Farnham was twice married. Hm
at Newfields. Me., to Miss Mary Moore,
and second to Mian Jennie Woodward.
His second wife died in 113. By his first
marriage he had two children, Marv A.
and George F.. both of whom are dead.
He is survived by several niece and
nephews, among whom are Miss MartJia
Farnham of this nty. Arthur W. Smith,
mpeTHitrndcnt of school of Sheihume
Falls, Mass, Henry Farnham of Boston
and a nephew in California.
NO AMERICANS
ON LINER CYMRIC
Crew Were AH British Except One Rus
sian and Two Belgians, Officers De
clare Liner Was Not Armed.
Bantry, Ireland, May 10. The details
of the sinking of the Cymric were given
to-day by members of the crew landed
here. They say a torpedo struck the
engineroom, blew all the skylight off
and extinguished the lights throughout
the ship. Four men were killed by in
explosion and the chief steward wag
drowned while trying to reach a boat
when the crew abandoned the ship. Itttet
when it was seen that the steamer was
not in immediate danger of sinking, the
crew returned and remained aboard until
the arrival of a sloop which had heard
the wireless calls.
All the crew were British subjocts ex
cept one Russian and two Belgians. The
officers say the Cymric was unarmed and
carried six passengers, members of the
British consular service. All of them were
sa ved.
Of Vermont Congregational Conference
. at Bennington.
The' 121 at annual meeting of the Ver
mont Congregational conference, also the
08th annual meeting of the Vermont Do
mestie Missionary society, will be.heh:
with the Second Congregational church
in Bennington May 18 to 18. The centra
theme of the meeting will be, "The Chris
tian Church and People and the New
I'ay. A fine program has been pre
pared, opening Tuesday afternoon, May
16, at 2 o clock, as follows;
Tuesday afternoon 2, organization
and business; 2:10, fraternal gratings
2:30, reports of committees intcrchurch
federation, Rev. Fraser Metzger, Han
dolph ; religious education, Rev. A. P.
Pratt. Bellow Falls; 3, address, "A Ke
ligioui Education Program for the New
Day," Rev. Frank M. Sheldon, Boston
secretary Congregational Education so
cicty; 3:30, address, "The Bible and the
New Pay," Rev. William 1. Haven, I). 1.
New York, secretary American Bible so
ciety; 4, conference sermon. Rev. Ben
jamin Swift, Woodstock; celebration of
communion, officiating ministers, Rev. C.
E. Hitchcock,. North Pownal. Rev. R. H.
Clapp, Brattleboro; fl, welcome and fel
lowship supper.
Juesday evening 7:30, devotional
service; topic, "The Vision," Rev. F. B.
Richards, St. Johnsbury; report of cor
responding secretary, John M. Comstock,
Chelsea; music, church quartet; address,
the Cheering Outlook of the New Day,
Kev. Hubert C. Herring, 1). D Boston,
general secretary of national council.
Wednesday morning 8:4.), devotional
service; topic, "Spiritual Insights," Rev.
F. B. Richards; ft, business and reports,
treasurer of conference, F. W. Baldwin,
Barton, Fairbanks board of relief for
ministers, Rev. Paul D. Moodv, St. Johns
bury; 0:20, report of advisory commit-
ee, Kev. ft. V. treat, rittsford; discus-
aion, opened by Rev. A. H. Bradford,
Kutland; 10, Vermont Domestic Mission-
ry society, 08th annual meetine. Rev.
C. H. Merrill, P. D secretary; business
nrt reports; 10:15, "Women s Work,
Miss Grace Cruff, Bridgewater, Miss Ina
Rust, North Hyde Park; 10:30, discus
sion, "Responsibilities to Our New Kng-
m Speaking Neighhors, Rev. F. W.
Kaymond. Proctor, Rev. W. J. Ballon
.udlow; 11, addresses. (1) "Maintaining
Self-Support in Rural Fields." Rev. C. K
Tracy, Strafford; (2) "Condition m Rur
I Vermont." Rev. CI H. Smith, Burling
ton: (3) "The Call of the Hour," Rev
Herman Swarti, I). T)., secretary Con
gregational Home t Missionary society
11:5.), business and, adjournment.
Wednesday afternoon 1 : 30, devotion
a I service; topic, "A New World," Rev
F. B. Richards; 1;4S, conference, "The
Church and Motion Pictures," conducted
by Rev. A. W. Bailey, district secretary
Sunday School and Publishing aoeietv
2:30. report of committee on civic n
tice. Rev. J. B. Sargent. Northfield: 2:45
address, "The Diitv of the Churrh to the
State," Horace F. Graham, Craftsbnrv
3: 15, report of committee on benevolence
Rev. Benjamin Swift, Woodstock; on
missionary education, Rev. A. P. Pratt
Bellow Falls; discussion, opened bv
Rer. E. P. Treat, Pittsford; 3:45, report
ot Congregational hoard of pastoral sup
plr, Rev. Arth.ur ,CoreH, Boston; ftd
dresses, "Finding a Minister," Charles P,
Smith, Burlington; "Finding a Church,"
Rev. O. R. Houghton. Wallmgford; 4:43.
unfinished business; fi. supper.
Wednesday evening 7;30, devotional
service; topic. I he .New Brotherhood,
Rev. Rev. F. B. Richards; 7:45, address,
The Tercentenary Program," Rev. Her
man F. Swartz, D. D., secretary National
Home Missionary society, New York;
8:30, address. "The Challenge of World
Chaos to American Christianity," Rev. D.
Brewer Eddy, associate secretary, A. B
C. F. M.. Boeton.
Thursday morning R:45. devotional
service; topic. "I pward and Onward
falls. Rev. F. B. Richard; 9. business;
10, meeting in the First church. Old Ben
nington; address, "Some Routs in the
Past, Rev. Isaac Jennings, Old Benning
ton: 10:30, final adjournment, with visit
to historic places and shrines.
MORE HOPE
TO AVERT WAR
HONORED BY MANY FRIENDS.
and Obregon To Be
Continued
Mr. and Mrs. B. W. Hooker Surprised
Were Married 25 Years Ago.
Two hundred people assembled in How
land hall last evening for an anniversary
reception in honor of Mr. and Mrs. B. W.
Hooker of Park street, who will have
been married 25 yewrs next Friday. Bride
f!nnfprpnff T?pf wppti Srnf H"",'1 Rrm,m of n"er-oentury ago we
CvODierence Deiween OCOIX taken wholly bv smnr se as they we
ushered into the hall, but that aspect of
the get-toffethcr was quickly forgotten
as they began to receive the congraltiia
tions of so many acquaintances. In the
receiving line with Air. and Mrs. Hooker
were Mr. and Mr. B. P. White and Mr
and Mrs. A. J. Baldwin. Guesta were
ushered down the line bv the following
young women! Miss Hazel Partridge,
Miss Frieda Hooker, Miss Freda Ladd,
Miss Bertma Hooker, Miss Kathcrine
Rogers, Miss Beulah Grant, Miss Winona
O'Neil and Miss Beth Skinner.
An enjoyable program of musical and
terary numbers, following the reception,
included vocal solos, piano solos, duets
and dialect readings.. Mihs Mildred
Phelps and Mrs. Nelson B. Ballard gave
a piano duet and George, F. Mackay sang
a solo, his sister, Miss Hazel JLickay,
playing tho piano accompaniment. Mrs.
W. J. M. Beattie gave a piano solo, with
SCOTT SAID TO BE
MORE OPTIMISTIC
Obregon Has Not Yet Sub
mitted Any Counter
Proposals
Wash.ngton, D C, May Secretary ( j simonds playing the violin ob
?f "rcr informed Present Wilaon ,j to Mrs v ,irad(iv in ft vot.al
to-day that the conference between Scott Boo wa8 afT0,n,,a-niert by jlrg. Ballard,
and Obregon last night was not ; conclu- who piaVP(1 the piano. Dr.V. M. Lvnde
brought the program to a close with
cateu tnat the oiiiiook was more iavor-1 hrnf.r ma, ,ra
.ti. r- a. , 1 .v.....
aoie lor an agreement oeing reacneu. it ,I,ij n,;in i;a
.me exa.-i FiuM 01 uiuerence wee f the Hedding Methodist church to voice
revealed. . ...I;-..!, ,i, ,,,., ti,.m,i
i.iajui urmiiii .nun nuTinru .hvhtwii. (. .... h. , n i, a),. ,,,.,.1. fI i.
Baker that no formal counter proposals t.. ,lf f. ,,.ir-,;,0,.. h ,..i,i,
have been submitted by Obregon but brou the -company' together, made a
tnat uwegori wm auDiuu papers giving mimtjor f presentations, to which feel
nis vievvs lo-aay. rMnnnSpS u.pr(, ...a.in iw ir utl,i xir
"'''"'J .'oni lias i".ri. " I Hnnlrer A ttn rl vi.s mrnli n um mnnav
IT j, .L 1 ..... -
iiwa.mn government trie tenner ot rame M a token of the esteem in which
services ot. ino .ationai uunra.
DELAY ON TRUCK
PROVES COSTLY
Failure to Deliver Street De
partment Vehicle Scored
' By Aldermen
FIRE DEPARTMENT
MATTERS TALKED
Austin & Nelson Give Notice
of Desire to End Opera
House Rental
-'k
vv in
llnfiiva arTflil innal Ainn-
the street department, occr j,v tlio
failure of the Vermont r
4, Sales
VILLA BANDITS SAID
TO BE COLLECTING
WELL KNOWN HOTEL MAN.
BRAZIL TO DEMAND
AN INDEMNITY
Boston, Miy 10. W. Fdwin I'lmer, a
lawyer, was arrested yesterday on an in
dictment warrant charging criminal libel
in four counts. The alleged libel was
contained in a declaration drawn by I'l
mer in connection with a suit for $1 50.0011
in behalf of the widow of .Allen H. Ben
nett, former cashier of the Beverly Na
tional lank.
The defendants in the suit were Dr.
Peer P. Johnson, superintendent of the
Beverly hospital. Andrew W. Roger,
president of the bank, anil others. The
indictment alleged that t imer intended
to villify the defendant. The declara
tion itself wa ordered strhken from the
files of the superior court rei-ently.
I'lmer pleaded not gudty and furnifhed
bond.
Government Will Require Germany to
Make Reparation for Steamer Rio
Braneo, Which Was Sunk By
a Submarine.
Rio Janeiro, May 10. Brazil will de
ma nd indemnity from Germany for the
sinking by a submarine of the Brazilian
steamer Kio Braneo.
BAD DEADLOCK
ON ARMY BILL
"MASTERPIECE OF DIPLOMACY
Is What Some of the French Call Wil
son's Latest Note to Germany.
Paris. May 10.-Great prominen-e ij
jfnen by the n- paper to te latett
American note to (rrmnr, whv-1) is
f-al'ei a roW-rrpieoe of dip'r-itiiir.
IN BELLOWS FALLS NEXT YEAR.
State K. of C. Convention Will Be Held
Officers Elected.
St. Albans. May 10. The next annual
state convention of the Knight of (V..
lumhns will be held at fHim Fl!, it
a dei-ided at the cloninjr e-nn of
the I!16 contention here eterdav. The
coum-il voted a per i-atota ta of ,V-
cent for etpen-.
The folio ing officer mere alerted:
State deputv. Stephen M. ttrivvdl of
Senate Rejects House Report and In
sists on Its Amend
- inents.
Washington. Mav 10. The Senate re
jected the Hmi'-e report on the army bill
vesterdav an' instructed Srnste con
fcrees to insist on its amendments to
the bill. As a rcult the army bill dead
hv-k s more hopeless of solution than
ever.
NATIVE OF TONBRIDGE.
George Dodge, Retired Lawyer, Killed
Himself at Sunapee, N. H.
Sunspee, X. H., May 10. A retired
lawyer, l.eorga Iv-lge. .i years of age.
who hit lived b're aimie 3i yenrs. rom
mifteil miK ide by shoot tne bim-elf.
He s born in Tunbridge. t . and
lsvr a widow who has taught the Guild
,'hn fnr several rear, and a son. 1 leon
John H. Sargent Died in Middlebury of
Heart Disease.
Middlebury, May 10. dohn H. Sargent
died at his home at Middlebury inn yes
terday of heart failure. Mr. Sargcnvhad
not been in good health for several days.
On Monday afternoon he suffered a se
vere attack of heart trouble hut ..cov
ered and was thought to be out of dan
ger. .Mr. Sargent was born in Hill, N.
II.. April 5, 1837. f(e moved to Rutland
when a young man and for several years
waa in the employ of the late John W.
CYa niton.
In 18(58 he came to Middlebury. where
he hns since resided. For several years
he was engaged in the hardware and
plumbing Imis'v" which he gave up
about 30 years .t;o and since then had
been in the hotel business. For 22 vears
he conducted the Hotel Logan and later
owned the Sargent house on Court street
and the Middlebury inn on Washington
street.
Before coming to Middlebury, Mr. Sar
gent served In the Civil war and was a
member of Co. H, of the. 1 1th Varmont
volunteers. After coming to Middlebury
he was made captain of the Middlebury
company of the Vermont militia and
nerved in that rapacity until the com
pany was dislianded. At one time he was
foreman of Washington Fngine company,
o. I. He a active in the early days
of the Vermont Mate Firemen's associa
tion and m its president for one term.
He was a charter member of William
P. Ru.sell poM, No. SO. G. A. R.. and was
a past commander. For sexersl years
he was chief of the Middlebury fire de
partment under its present system.
He is urvied by his wife, who wait
Misa Sicily Mi4'ue. and one sister, Mrs.
thigsn of Brooklyn. . Y. The funeral
will be hld in St, Mary's Catnolie
i-hurch Saturday morning at 9 o'clock.
Mrs. Hooker is held bv the ladies and
pastor's union of the Hedding church
The Clover club presented her a cracker
and cheese dish and a largo number of
friends joined in presenting the couple a
TT "NTmmi ATCVTrTil hftndsome ptirse of money. I wclve brid-
the gift of the church missionary society.
American Army umcers Profess to Be- During a delightful social hour that
lieve That Mexicans Will Not At- followed the remarks by the pastor and
tack Now But Will Petire ttlp responses, refreshments of ice cream
, , , , I a no (Mine were served ov a nuniDer oi
imo we mienor. young women
Marathon. Tex.. Mav 10. Villa ban- Mr. and Mrs. Hooker were married in
dits in larire numbers are renorted to be Barre May 12, 1801. the ceremony being
eoneentratimr at El Paino. 85 miles south performed by Rev. A. M. Wheeler, pastor
of Boquillas, and word reached here to- oi trie jueuiouist ehuren. Mrs. Hookers
day that thev are contemplating further maiden name was Miss Nellie White.
attacks on settlements near lresidio; but
these reports are not credited. Army of-
hcers believe that the bandits will prob
ably retreat toward the interior and wait
to see whether they are being pursued
before beginning new depredations along
the Rio Grande.
Demetrio De La Garza, once known as
the "had man of the Riir Bend country." t-harles Utley Tried to Have Verdict Set
met ins (ieatn Monday in a long-range Aside on the Ground That It Was
NEW TRIAL DENIED
IN ALIENATION
SUIT FROM CABOT
duel with an American trooper near Bo
quilkia, according to word brought to-day
by a truck contractor. De I Garza kept
a small trading store on the American
side of the Rio Grande; but the ranchers
Against the Weight of Evidence
Judge Butler Ruled Otherwise.
A motion to have the-.verdict for the
have long known him as a smuggler and plaintiff in the Frank C. Phelps-Charles
he is said to have resented the presence ... v: t n. .
of the American border patrol It is i ai.em.uon sou, in wn.cn ine jury
gave X'tieipa namagea, set aside on
claimed that he gave advance informa
tion to the Villa - bandits who raided
lilenn Springs.
DISQUIETING RUMORS
WERE DISPERSED
Columbus, N. M., Heard that 3,500 Car
ranza Soldiers Were Marching On the
Town and that Pershing's Rear
Guard Had Been Attacked.
Columbus. New Mexico, May 0. Ru
mors that 3,500 Carranxa soldiers were
marching hore and that General Perili
ng s rear guard had been attacked were
impelled alter a reconnaissance flight bv
n army aviator who reported seeing n
Mexican affldier and that all was quiet
long tne American line. Rumors of an
ttaek were current last night, and heavy
guards were maintained.
OBREGON'S PROPOSAL.
To Have Joint Border Patrol, with Amer
icans On Their Own Side.
F.I Paso, Texas, May 10. Fear of a
ireak between the I'nited States and
Mexico oer American troop disposition
in Mexico was temporarily allayed last
ight when, alter a three and a halt
hours' discussion, the American and Mex
ican conferees agreed to hold another con
ference, prolmbly to-day.
General Obregon went into conference
last evening, announcing that he had a
new proposal to make to the American
representatives. He intended to ak. he
said, that a common Imrder patrol should
be stretched along the border, American
troops guarding the American side and
Mexican troop patrolling the Mexican
side.
the grounds that the verdict was against
the weight of the evidence, was overruled
by Judge Fred M. Butler in county court
yesterday afternoon. Arguments in la
vor of the motion were made bv t'tley's
counsel. W. A. Dutton and M. 0. Morse
of Hard wick, and .1. Ward Carver and
Fred L. Iiird opposed. Judge Butler or
dered a certified execution of the judg
ment. Counsel for I'tley took exceptions
to the ruling and although they gave no
other indication that the case will be
taken higher, it is generally believed that
it will be earned to supreme court on ex
ceptions.
The jurors were excused Monday, sub
ject to the call of the court, but it . is
prolwtble that their services will not be
needed again this term unless some of
the state cases come to trial. The state
cases will not be taken up until next
week and court was without business
this forenoon, a chancery cae which was
to have been heard by the court, having
been continued.
MURDER CASE COMPLETED
FUNERAL OF MRS. MAYVILLE.
Was Held at St. Menica's Church with
Interment in Catholic Cemetery.
The funrral of Mrs. Joseph Mnyvi!!,-.
And Automobile Case from Rutland Coun
ty Also Argued in Supreme Court.
Two Rutland county cases, including
that of State vs. tliovanni Marino, mur
der, were argued in supreme court yes
terday and to-day. The arguments in
the murder case were completed late in
the afternoon and the ease following.
John l.dward Hervin, by next friend, v
Wilson H. Frenier and Thoina Carmody.
an automobile ease, whs finished this
morning. Marino was lonvicted of mur
der in the feeond degree and sentenced
to life imprisonment, .state's Attorney
C. V. I'oulin and William H. Preston were
the attorney appearing.
In the automobile case, the plaintiff
securing verdict for 9733.33 in the low
er court. Attorney John S. Ilorsey ap
peared for the plaintiff and William H.
Preston for the defendants.
FUNERAL AT HIS HOME.
That of W. D. Stephen Was Held Tues
day Afternoon Interment at Hope.
Funeral services for William D. Steph
en, a pioneer Barre Scotsman, whose
death at his home, 38 Maple avenue, Sun
day morning, followed a long illness
were held at the house Tuesday after
noon at 2 o'clock, at which hour a large
number of acquaintances assembled. Rev.
hdgar Crossland. pastor of the first
Presbyterian church, officiated and the
hearer wrre: Alexander Gordon. Fred
Bird. James K. Anderson. .lames S. Milne.
Mr. Turner and James Imlah. During
the services Miss Alice Walker sang two
selections. There was a profuse floral
offering. Interment was made in Hope
cemetery.
$50,000 PULP CONCERN
SUSTAINS HEAVY VOLTAGE.
Incorporated Under Vermont Law, with
Headquarters at Brattleboro.
The Howland Pulp A Paper associa
tion. Inc.. with capital stock amounting
to $.0.inO, divided into 5Ht shares, has
filed article of association with the sec
retary of state, to carry on business as
a pulp and paper manufacturer, to deal
in general nierchandie, to buy, sell, own
and develop water powers. t rngsce lit i
any manufacturing, mining or construc
tion business in any st ite or territory of
the 1 nited States. The principal place
of business will he nt Brattleboro and I municipal insurance applied to accident
the incorporators are A. M. Blandm of incurred while employes were at worw
Balh. . II.. Charles G. Staples. H. F. j for the citv. Mr. Reynold ststed" that
F.ddy and H. K. Whitney, all of Biattle-loro.
Co. to live up to ..c-0' uient in tho
Jeffrey motor truck sc .ract, were ear
nestly discussed at. the regular meeting
of the board of aldermen last evening.
Before the subject was relegated to the
rear in favor of other pressing matters,
the aldermanfc street and fire commit
tees received explicit instructions to in
vestigate the immediate needs of the two
departments in time to report at the
next meeting.
Chairman Glysson of the street com
mittee pointed out the handicaps under
which the department is laboring as the
result of the company's failure to have
shipped from the factory on or before
April 15 the $3, 00 motor' truck, the pur
chase of which was authorized by tho
council in March. Mr. Glysson quoted
one of the officials of the local company i
as stating Saturday night that the truck
had not been shipped because of a delay
encountered in procuring a bodv for the
apparatus. Furthermore, the chairman
went on, the official in question proposed
to wire the company for the exact data
concerning the shipment and promised to
have an answer for the chairman Monday
night. Mr. Glvsson had not heard from
the Vermont Trucking & Sales Co. since.
The service of outside teams at $4.50
per day each and the necessity of loan
ing one street department team to the
fire department for use on one of the
trucks combined to handicap the depart
ment heavily at a time when much work
is in progress, it was said. A motor
truck is needed just now more than at
any other time in the year, the chairman
stated. Alderman Shurtleff thought it
cheaper to hire honses and to wait for
the motor truck than to purchase horses.
If Alderman Glvsson s statement that
the department is digging pretty deep
into its appropriation, for the want, of a
motor truck, wasn't gloomy enough. Al
derman Bruce 'a prediction that a new
Jeffrey truck won t be seen in Barre he-
fore Sept. 1 did not serve to brighten the
situation. Mr. Sliurtleff. expressing his
opinion that the fire department should
be made to pay full price for the street
horses in uae at the station, was inter
rogated by Alderman Bruce as to the ad
visability o maintaining the department
within its appropriations. Mr. Shurtleft
said he didn't think that an appropria
tion amounted to anything in any de
partment. In the end. although Alder
man Healy would move that the truck
matter be laid on the table, the street
committee was instructed, on Mr. Ilealy's
motion, to have a report on the truck
delay ready for the next meeting. The
fire committee was asked to bring in rec
ommendations for the betterment of con
ditions in the tire department.
After the aldermanie session, the coun
cil convened to pass to its second reading
a formal resolution authorizing the street
committee to prepare for the paving pro-
icct on South -Main street, the resolu
tion differed from other documents of
the kind in that it provided for the in
stallation of all wiring, now strung on
poles, through underground conduits, and
al.-o made provision for a steel, iron or
cement bridge over Jail branch. It is
probable that the matter of bonding for
the project will he brought before a spe
cial city meeting within a few weeks.
Before the council retired into execu
tive session. City Attorney Wfcdiart gave
it as his opinion that the city council can
exercise its discretion, under the law. in
the demarcation of building lines in the
business section on North Main street.
The opiuh was requested in i-onnection
with the application of A. Tomasi for
permission to extend the front of hi
block at the corner of North Main and
Merchant street-.
Sentiment among the aldermen as to
whether the fire chief shall receive pay
during the term of his disability was
measured at the opening of the meeting,
before the weekly payrolls of the several
department were approved. Alderma
Rosi received no replv when he asked if
the fire committee had any recommenda
tions in the matter. Alderman Shurtleff
thought the chief should be jmid if th
accident occurred in tne line oi nis riuiy.
To Alderman Rossi the question of con
tinuing the chief lary eenied con
tingent on whether it happened while the
chief wa on duty. To Alderman Rey
nolds" inquiry a to whether the chief
accident could properly om under the
liability insurance act affecting munici
palities. Alderman Healy replied that the
Free Industrial School Exhibit.
The fifth annual exhibit of student'
unrk made at the P.rre etrning drawing
Man, 50 Feet in Air, Retains Balance and 'school will take place at the Mathewson
the chief of the fire department is on
duty 21 hour of each day. The clerk
stated that Mr. Otadding had been acting
s chief for 11 ycrs. in replying to an
Descends to Safety.
Milf.id. N. H. May jn t li:ir'e, C..1.
by had a narrow escape wh.le taking
down a laige elm tree n the Milf
inquiry from l.ermn Bruce, who aid
that if the alarm had sounded while this
chief wa approaching Jo, key Hollow
hill on the afternoon f the accident ei
j schisd lm'l.img. i"tinT ot Kim and Jn-j would lae turned tMi.k l stfen.1 t'
jern street. Frida. vturdav and fire. Alderman Shurtleff said he doubted
M.i.lnv. May 12. 13 and 1". Irom fi :i' ,' whether the fire alarm coul.) have
Iw. h h.. m ernment ,t,n i w Oet 9 wnrrei at her home lii nsniinnnnr company roierty vc
St. Alban: state ecrctry. K. .1. Hw- .Vm .;'. h, ... - memher of .! Branch -street Sunday mnrn ng. after j'terday.
srd of Bellow Fall; fatc treurer. V j rnn te. . F. and A. M and w -.11 Unng i'lnes. held in St. Monica' He wa siting on a limb oer .VI feet
C. Mcs.re of BatTe; tte sHf-n. -Ulinii ,. !,.. knnar. T!,,...i. l.hnrch vesterdav. the rari!i orient. Rev.'alrfMo the rronnd and wa lowerm.7 a
E. Smith of Rutland; 'te a llocate. It. j Ji.- gained stti.ie otriet -! P. M. M Kenna. cch !: t ng a high Ir;e limb, whnh he rut .;T, when
inntd 9 p. m : Saturday al Irom 2.3'l
'""till 5 p. m.
few !ir2etin a tf the cheI
pciil,e (irwlopmrrt in the fnsiire are
al shown, therefore, all who ere in
terested in TUrre' life an. I progre
alrg these line are especially in it - 1
heurd bv the party oier the hill it
Brook nVld.
On the moi-n of Alderman FeynoH
it wa otri to pav the chief hi uul
'.tlary f--r !t w k.
1 h,. reignati"n of 'aroe t'uTn a
lner in t ' e fire department ma rest
J. MuJeahy of Mar.iatVk; delegate t r.iint)::ng a hool e!.i1.J and Heii!f requiem The tearera were: at ? the w ind earned it a-ro t!.e h:?h power 1 1(, ,r,mr, and alo trancers are ' mrd'alU ! nd ac-epte-1. Mr. Mlligsa- resgrt
national onnvrntkn t Ihneriport. l-a. '.- ,reil .hh! for aauit he r.t.:...i :Kce Mavville and Joseph Iti!. . M)n . w ,r- of the cle-fn,- !;, .i.n.; n .
Heptity Irt.".l ant Past State- Ifc-r-ir. ,-; ,n .1., ,,,.,rrm, ,-oiitt ant l.t t.ir re lof tt.e ,Wrtr4. Fred Hr s ant 1T..rd! iHer 2-V It i ed thrmii h C. '
. F. Mara of Bratt If bum; al'eraat 1 irr the i of tie l-er cVnrt. 1 l'-'air. T!er a fujmfwT t (1traj,b l1. but .'! not knoak h;m olt.
trank t.. I.race of rair He i.J U. 1 1 1., -n Iieinff that a t. a ' rt t he J triUi'e Irt'-rniert wa made in t't e ' He l.w i re--.i er. tie n- In '-ml,
J. Prrnicrgant r-f lVnn:ejt--n. tame f gtit at a p' rent. (ath---l c cmrt'ty en Berkley elret. as l ina ie way t tie -c .i, !.
mlixj. Information rerard.rj stndent tmn. dat-t 3uv ' ti t-e, on e rffe.-ti
ki ie entitled t- relt. fur regular imi the mornmrs of May 13 a' 7 o" h k .
it'i'"-iiH' and date for Ihe etnrmre of) there a-e one or two rand4f, i 1
m -1.-I an i draw r: wiJ w nin 1 at the'
exh l t;on iwtra. f"frt;nul ca fourth fg".)
f
