VOLUME XXXI. LAURENS, SOUTH CAROLINA, WEDNESDAY, MAY 10, 1916.
MfXICANS MA[ RAID
ON AM[RICAN BORD[R
Second Big Raid in Few
Months.
THREE SOLDIERS
LOSE THEIR LIVES
Ten Year Old Boy Also EHined and
Two American Citizens Carried ('ap
tie Across Mexican Line. Small
Force Fought Mexicans for Hours.
El Paso, Texas, May 7.-Three
American soldiers and a 10-year-old
boy have lost their lives and two Amer
ican citizens have been kidnapped and
carried south of the international
boundary to almost certain death in
another raid of Mexican bandits that
takes rank with Francisco Villa's fa
mous attack on Columbus, New Mex
ico. Whether the marauders were
Villa bandits or Carraiza forces is
not known.
'The bandits' foray e arying them
through the soulhein limits of 1irew -
ster Cointy, in the iIg lend district
of Texas, and taking in three little
settlements near the border, Glenn
Springs, Dlocjuillas and Dcemers--took
place on Friday night and Saturday
morning, but. news of it. did not reach
here until today.
Within an hour preparedness had
been begun for adequate action. Major
(en. Frederick Funston ordered four
troops of cavalry to proceed to the
troops of cavalry to proceed to the
raided districts to reinforce small do
taschments already on their way to
the scene from Presidio, Texas, Alpine
and other points.
These troops got under way tonight.
It is. said .here that if the exigencies
of the case demand such action they
will cross the border in order to run
down and disperse the bandits. The
force consists of two troops of the
8th cavalry from Fort Blis, l1 Paso,
under Major George T. Langhorne, and
two troops of the 14th cavalry from
Fort Clark, under Col. Frederick W.
Sibley.
The two detachments are expected
to detrain tomorrow morning, Major
Langhorne's at Al pine and Col. Sib
ley's at Marathon. From these points
they will march south ninety miles to
the border.
While military events were devolp
ing with such rapidity the conference
over the co-operation of American and
Melcan soldiers in Mexico, which had
been expected to reach a culmination
today, came to an abrupt halt.
Gens. Scott and Fu nston met (en.
-Obregon and .Juan Amador, Mexlean
sub-secretary of foreign affairs, in the
immigration station at the American
end of the international bridge shortly
after 11 o'clock this morning for what
had been expected to be their final
conference. It developed later, how
ever, that practically tihe (only3 matter
discusseCd was tile handi11t rahl at
Glenn11 Springs.
What was said at the meeting was
not diivuilgedl. hImmediately afterward
Gen. Obregon andl Seeretary .\mador
hur ied to J1uatez. whlere they'O~ nteredii
Glen. Obregon's pri vale ear and be
ganl a coniferenice wh'iich lasted three
houris.
Glen. Garvira, commiand~er of tihe
JIuarez garrIson; (en. Saunlos and1( An
dIron Garcia, Mexican conlsui in 10l
Paso, took par't in tils discussion.
Tonight CGen, Obregon was in teic-,
graphic communication with Gen. Car- I
ranza, and' it was und~er'stood he~ wvas
acquainting thle first chlief with the
new developments and suggesting ac
tion that would have to be taken.
Aged Negro Dead.
William (Garlington, a respected ne
gro of the community, for a long tIme
SeX ton of tile Presblyterian chu ril,
died hlere Friday and was burled Sat
urd(ay afternoon.
'Pienie at Mt. Pleasanut.
The Mt. Pleasant school will close
with a picnic on Saturdlay, May 20thl.
Sorme prominent speakers are invited.
Th6 public is eordially invited to conme.
Died ini Woodruft.
Mr. flutier Chamnblin, fathler of Mrs.
Robeort Wham of this city, died In
Wooldruff Thursday and was huried,
there the following day, Mr. and Mrs.
Wham and other relatives attended the
fnbraI services from here.
SUPPLY TRAIN ON WAY TO PERSHING+T
/0% VOW- 46
Photo by AhmericanR Pressi Association.
'LTra in of t he Mlex Icii Northiiwestern stet wing c ct' ai LPlcl;gv oh its %%,.y w"ithi slupi eis to 1Fi I( ed tate ox Ioopt
chnsig Vitta.
P1i'it(' Si-lIt'I('1: SYTS'I-:
IS WilELY DliS('4US-SEI)D
Figures byv A Men D. Alb1ert, lChautau
11ua i eeturet', ('iallenged by N. 1H.
IlI, of Power ('ompany.
Considerable discussion has taken
place in the city over the figures pre
scnted by \lr. Allen D. Albert and Mr.
N. 13. Dial last Tuesday and Wednes
day evenings, respectively, relative to
the expense of operating the city light
and water system. The Advertiser
was furnished with the notes of both
speakers and gives herewith a sum
mary of each:
By Mr. Albert.
Receipts from wa
ter system .. ..$4,569.10
Expense of same .. 2,187.54
Profit .. .. . .$2,381.54
Receipts from lights .. .. $ 9,590.48
Expense of same .. .. .. .. 17,581.48
Loss .. .. .. .. .. .. $ 7,990.60
Deduct profit from water .. 2,381.66
Total loss .. .. .. .. ..$ 5,608.94
By. Mr. Dial.
Mr. Dial (lid not dispute the approx
imate accuracy of Nir. Albert's figures
as to receipts and expenditures, ex
cept in one case where he pointed out
a mistake of $1,000 in addition. Mr.
Dial's contention has sinca been con
fhimed by the City Clerk, as seen be
low. However, .ir. Dial pointed out
that $2,282.00 of expenditures should
not have been included in the figures
for last year, as this represented an
overdue account of the year before.
Therefore, he contended, that. the ex
(ess of operating expenses over re
ceipts was approximately but $2,221.
The expense of extensions, Mir. )ial
said, should he deducted from this net
loss. HIe did not give the amount of
extensions to be charged against thi is
and the city clerk, in his letter below
makes no distinction between exten
sions and operation. I towever, he stat
ed in pertion to a representative of The
Advertiser that the extensions last
year were negligible. In addition to
the actual receipts from power, Al-.
Dial stated that the city was able to
operate the euivalent of 150 are
lights and 55 hydrants with the sur
plus power and water, representing a
valuation per year of approximately
$10,050, lights being placed at $00 each
and water hydrants at $30.00 each. In
addition, lie said, the city hall, school
buildings and hospital were given
their lights free of charge. Therefore,
he estimated, the profit of the city
from Its plant wan approximately that
represented by what it would pay
for its street lights and fire protection
were they charged at usual rates.
Mr. Kitchen's Letter.
Air. C. W. Kitchens, city clerk and
treasurer, has addressed the following
letter to The Advertiser:
Editor The Advertiser:
I presume that you are endeavoring
to get the figures and statements in
regard to the City of Iauirens and
Reedy River Power Co., as presented
last week to the public by Mi'. Albert
and i'. Dial. I also undlerstandl that
ther'e has been some comment on why
these figures sh:>uld vary so much
when they come from the same source.
Therefore. I am giving you the city's
r'ecord just as I gave to both these
other parties, that you may print them
along side of the statements of these
gentlemen, that is, of you are going
to Dublish their statements.
WO FO ti AIiM NI ASSO('lATION.
Laurens ('ount y .embers ii ill gii e
'The'ir First lia iqnet 'i'hursday Ein.
ing.
'Pe recently organized Wofford
\lumni Association of arns 11 con
(y Ywill give their first annual banquet
tomorrow evening. The banquet will
be given at nine o'clock. )r. It. N.
Snyder and I)r. A. G. Rleinbert of Wof
ford College have accepted an invita
tion to attend and will make addresses,
in addition to these, several local
members of the association will he
called upon for short talks.
Those in charge of the entertain
ment at1e using every effort to make
the evening one of great delight. The
following menu has been arranged for
the banquet:
Grape Fruit Cocktail
Roast Chicken
Steamed Rice Green Peas
Baked Sugar Cured l1am
Sweet Potato Pudding
Tomato and Celery Salad
Orange Sherbet
Cakes
Coffee Cigars
A few of the W\offord men in Lau
tens county have not yet reservedl
their seat for the banquet and The Ad
vertiser has been requested to remind
them to do so at. once as the reserva
tion must be made early In ordler to
complete arrangements.
DlS'litl("I' 31.tSONS MET
IN LAl'IiENS ViESTEltlA Y
Net .1e hiltil td into) the 3 1t4'res
of the Order, .A1ter ich 1l1 all Attend.
id aL Barbecue.
Ilet Wein ihree and four hundred
nem bers of (lhe Masonic fraternity of
this and adjoining counties met in
ILauiens yesterday in district meetin g.
IItisiness was mixed with pleasure I
make the day prolitable and enjoyable.
Yesterday evening the local Masons
were hosts to thy visitors at an old
tim bre ha etie held in (aiiington m1ea
dow.
The mleel ing began yesterday after
noon when the first and second de
grees WCIe ('onlerlre(I up lon a class of
candidates. Following this the bar
becet was held and after it the third
degree was conferred. Past Grand
Master Geo. T. IBryan, of Greenvlle,
)istrict Deputy Grand Master, W. B.
Patton, of Cross Anchor, and Grand
Junior Warden S. T. Lanham, of Spar
tanburg, were present and contribut
ed to the pleasures of the meeting.
Grand Master .R. A. Cooper was to
have been present, but he was called
out of the city on urgent business and
could not attend.
From March 20, 1915 to March1 20,
1916, receipts for lights were $9,690.88,
expense same dates, $16,581.48, which
includes material, fixtures and labor
to keep up and maintain the lines. I
also give you figures on water, al
though they are entirely separate from
lights. Waiter receIpts (same dates as
lights) $t,572,9t5; expense $2,187.54, I
will also add thar~t in tIs light expense
is 03ne ltemi of $2,282.38 whlech was lpaidi
for a hack bill1 for current that was
so long in question but was finally
paid during the (late of these state
mlents but was not made at the time
in whlich it Is charged.
Very truly,
O.- W. KJtchens,
TO 1101 S-:f41ON ii-i: l!-:
C'onfere'nce 31e'ts in LaIurens Next
31onth. Intere'sting, inspiring A.
nual ('onv-ention .issured. 'eteral
Ofieers Resile in ('ou ibin.
'The annual South Carolina Stale
IEiwortli league conference will he
held in Laulrens . June 8-11. The com
nittee having in charge the prepara
tion of the programme has been suc
cessful in securing a number of ex
cellent speakers, and a most interest
ing and helpful conference is cx
pected. Reports from various parts
of the State show fine work accom
plished by the young people during
the year, and this alone denotes a
sucessful conference.
it is expected that this will be the
most important conference of a num
ber of years, as there are several mat
ters of vital importance to come be
fore the body for discussion and set
tlement.
Following is a list of the State ofli
cers and district secretaries, all of
whom have labored earnestly during
the past year to make the work a suc
cess:
President, J. C. Smith, Waterloo;
Vice president, .Jamces 1. iI lls, ('olum
bia; secretary, Mliss Sallie Bell Watt,
Columbia; treasurer, Miss Ilessie
R(eed, ('oluitbia; inior superintend
ent, .Mrs. J. '. (;ray, Woodruff; su
lerintetnden l Girls of IEpworth, .\iss
Irene P'rince, .\nderson; ':ipworth IEra
a:,ent, \\'oodrow \\'arcd, 1)arlington;
editor, .\iss .\arie L. Zimmnermuan, ('o
ilumbta. i)istrict secretaries 14(.\ 1 11
son, .\lihs Aileien iter'ron, Starr; Char
leston, .1. A. McCormack, ('harlestnuI;
('okesbury, A. E'. Taylor, Ninety-Six;
Vohuntbiat, .\iss .\lortima Rtay, C'olum -
bia; l'loretnce, \liss Atlanta l''etcher,'
\lc('oll; Greenville, the RIev. W. I..
.ullikin, I'asley; Kingstree, Mrs. L.
.\. IBrown, Leco; .\arion, .\lisai lelle
Powell, Aynor; Orangebtr g .\liss
.\Maude Shler; Spart anburg, (George
. Simn s 1, 1S parta nburg; Sumtcr, II.
I. I'llerbe, Manning.
All the leagues arc urged to elect
their delegates at once anti semd thdle
names to the iRev. .1. I. T. Major, Lau
rens, before May 25th, so that humes
may be provided for Ihea.
BA~SEBA.LL THISl WEEli.
Laurens liigxh Michool Will Play (.ray
Court-Owings and Cross Anchor.
(food Ganmes Expeted.
The Laurens Hligh School baseball
team Is scheduled to play two games1
this week. The first will be this af
ternoon at four o'clock when they will
tackle the Gray Court-Owings team.
The game will be played in Garling
ton's meadow and the admission fees
are 15 and 25 cents. The second game
will be played Friday against the
Cross Anchor school team, the time
being I o'clock, the place, (harlington's
meadow and the price 15 and 25 eenrs.
To lepent, Pay.
'I'le play "Among the llreakers,''
given by local talenlt herne several
weeks ago, will lie given at the Lau
lrns M\ill school auitlor'ium next 'Tu1s
hay evenling at 8:30 o'clock 'for the
benefit of the school library andi oth
er causes. PTe admission prices wvil
be 25 and 35 ents. Tile auditorium
has comi'ortable seats and Is ample in
size for the play, so a pheasant even
ing mnay be expected by thos'e 'who at
tend. The public is invited 'in attend.
CHAl'TAUQUA GUAl.ANTEED
FOR ANOTHER YEARI
Over Hlundred Men Sign Guarantee to
Secure Itedmipath h('lautauqua for
1817.
Over one hundre(i men signe(l tihe
contract by which the Iledpiath Chau
tulclua Was secured for ilaurenls for
the season of 1917. The contract for
1917 is similar to that signed for the
season .just finished. IAittle difflllty
was had in securing signer:. for the
next season alter the splendid series
of eutetainnents given this season.
Included among the guarantors for
next year are several farmers and as
many residents of the mill villages.
The following are those who voluin
teered to guarantee the Chautauqua
next season:
.Jesse lt. 'l'eague, oRolfe I'. Iiughes,
W. l,. ("ray, C. I1. Isoper, WV. L2. Taylor,
T. l:. IBabb, O. It. Simmons, . Arx'thur
Ic{e. K'. Kennedy, .1. C. Owings, It.
A. Iabb, .J. l'arl Owings, Itoss 1).
Young, l'. P. Lucas, It. If. ltoper,. .1. \W.
Todd, .1 r., 1. It. I lxldaens, W. .\. Dial,
T. I). lake, . Jr., ('has. IF. IFlemxing. W.
Hienry Franks, Len Iee ('hin, \V. I.
Thomnason, .1r., .1. N. \\'right, it. Rt.
Nic'kcls, W. 1'. (hildre:s, W. (. I~an
eaxst('er, V. . ;Il:erson, .\l. S. I)annt :lt.
.I. .\l. iteardenx, .A!i:on I'e, .to'
Smnith. .1. 1.. S "itzer, S. .\l. \\'iikcs, IL
(', Italle, W . I. lira mlett. Ii. 1b. ('lar<'.
-1. La. .\l l,in, .Jr.. T. 12. .\onroe, 1E. O.
:Anderson, G1. N. F'rankcs, .\. 1,. Ito!-r.
(. W . Kitchens, .1. \\arren [tlli..n .
W. Boll, It. .\1. WVole, .1. W. Thompson,
.ohn Spratt, C. 11. Iticks, It. L. Park
inson, M. I.. 'l'eague, I). M. Norwood,
W1. 1. .leng, ,1. N. llichardson, '. if.
Gilkerson, II. C. IMohr, L. E. lurns, .1.
Mel). Moore, .1. D. Watts, .Ino. D. V.
Watts.
S. II. Templeton, M. L3. Copeland, II.
K. Aiken, J. A. Armstrong, T. 1. Swy
gert, 10. P. \ilam, I. D. Gray, 'P. M.
Sohaw, W. M. & Albert Dial, Ernest W.
Machen, L. C. Barksdale, J. E. Hicks,
W. It. .Dial, .ames II. Sullivan, II.
'T'erry, A. IL. Mahaffey Felix W. Car
kisle, Ii. it. Itumbert. Chas. P. Vincent,
.tJr., .1. S. Bennett, 1. P. Minter, C. W.
Tune, W. I). Byrd, J. .1. Adams, Jno. A.
Hicks, G. C. Albright, A. C. Todd, .1.
W'. 'T'od(, E. it. Wilkes, II. M. KIchel
berger, Chas. T. Simpson, IH. Fleming
lones.
''. I). Lake, Sr., W. I). F'erguson, J.
P. IVarney, J. C., 'Todd, C. It. Moseley,
It. C. Cray, ). II. Swygert, .ack Mc
('ravy. W. It. .\leC uen, I. B. lilac'k
well, W. II. Gosnel I, C ). . Moseley, W\'.
It. I ichey, .r., .. 11. I'owe, W mxi. Swit
-zer. , . \I. .liller, .1. A. 'T'aylor, .1. '.
I)inkl in, V. I'. Fowl rI1, .Ino. .\. I.'-an,-.
('Inaence lcKeniney.
Ell131E1NTAilY DIPL.OMA.S
T) li: 11:1I vyEIlE lrltlIy
'hildren from .\ O er the I oniiiy to
Ilerei e 'l'lem at 'iI(d1 S(ehool
Buildlingl.' Friday.
The public is invited to attend at
I1racl ive exercises which are to be
held in the graded ,;(chool aditorium
Friday evening "hen Elementary )i
Ii!04ma'4: will bie dliivered'to' pupli4ils of
abhout I wventy-six schools in th44 ('ounty',
whoxx ha:ve suceessfuxlly passed an (ex
aml~iinatio j~)subile y t h ,'Ile ('ounitty de4
1:4a llit of' 'duen't ion. IDiplomxas, xt -
Irael ivecly gotten uip by the state de
j'art metxnt. f' educntion wiill be award'(ed
1:a(h lmi l antd thIese dliplotinas wiltl ln
titl(e the htolder oif them to enltrance(
in1to any high school in the counity
without further examination. A great
deal of interest has been arouisedl in
the couint o3 4verx these dliplomas and
a larige crowvd Is expected to be pxreseint
whenci they arxe aw"a rded. The children
from out of towvn will be enter'tained
Friday n ight by childr'en of the (city
schools.
In addition to these exercises ad
dr'esses will be made by 110n. J1. 1.
Swieauringen, Stato Siuperintendent of
IEduxcation and Pr'of. WV. K. Tate, form
cr1l' of this state but now connected
wvith Peabody College, Nashville, Tfenn.
The exercises wIll begin at 8:30
o'clock. Tihe pub ili is invited to at.
tend.
Will1 Speak to) Ldies(',
.\t's. .1. II. Grmahamn, a r'eturn'ted mis
sionary'3 fiom China, wvill speak to Ia -
dies In thle P *resbyter in chIurch Sun -
day afternoon at -i o'clock, All the Ia
dIeos of the towvn ar'e invitedl to hear
hex'.
At Etden School.
Tlherec will lie a pIcnic at 1Cden
school house on next Friday, May 12.
Shver'al prominent speakersB will be
presenut. The public is cordially in
Vlitn' to aitond.
CRISI8 AGAIN PASStD
IN G[RMANR[ATIONS
American Government Ac.
cepts German Promises
EXPECTS PROMISES
TO BE KEPT
11ith erms of Latst (Giermnan Note
Found Satisflctory by A m('riean
(overnment, the (lrentst. ('rlsis of
the War Seets to hai e issed
A iv y.
Washington, May N. --A note cabled
by Sec retary Iinsing to .ilhassadlor
Gerard today for delivery to the BIer
lin foreign oflice informs the ('rlan
govC'nIment that the United F-tates ac
cepts (ernany's "('-clarat ion of its
ab0anIdonlent" of its former suinlja
riic policy a 11n1 tot'' relics uln) a
scrutptilois I'xection of the allered
llolicy to remote tlie principal inllter
of an ite rru pt 1ion of the good rela
tion I) -xi iir I'letw 'i the two (conl i
tries.
ih thi a ; ept;ne ; n " ou .d11 for
11: not i to (trillrny that liho
I lit'd StatIs ainoilt for a imtomIeit
en t IInl), iuc It ls ( di:(scuss:, a sug
gi stion that rcep I by Germ'lan natal
aithorities fIr tlt- rights of cillittn: of
Iho Inited States toni the high :eas
should inl the sIightest degree ie mado
contingent upon the conduct of any
other government aIlTeeting the rights
of neutrals and noncombatants. This
is in reply to the concluding staitment,
in the last German note to the ef
fect that while submarine command
ers had been ordered to sink no peace
ful freight or passenger carrying ships
without warning or without safety
for passengers and crew, the German
government would reserve to itself
complete liberty of decision unless the
t'nited States was successful in its
efforts to break the British blockade.
W'ashington, May S.-Germany's
note has postponed, if it actualy has
not averted, a diplomatic break with
the United States.
President. Wilson will make Ihe
decision after h(, has read the otlicial
text, which reached the state depart
ment late tonight by cable from Am
bassador Gerard at Berlin. It will
be decided in time to lay it hefore the.
i -iden t omorrowi morning.
Will Acept, Assurances.
it watS stated authoritatively. after
the nhn('al~i i ( ieetig today thit if the
o..cial txt 1-hore ot. the l notlbial
version Itranstmitted I1 today's Ilerlin
le'w's ds1t5:1 ihes, terimany's assu
net (s untdoubled13 would h~e nec'"t
ed and before taking another step
th1( l'n!!ed ?faites wvo ld awail the fuli
fillmnict of her latent priomises.
In such 'lSe, the i'nited States
Amight not reply to the note and woiul d
aw ait evidence of tho actual ala ndon
elred. Pr leident Wilso is desih
((d by those01 close abou~lt himl as beinlg
inl a Itositllon where he i'atnnot Iiues
lion thei goodi falthI of? (ilrmany's as
lturantces, which muitst standli or fall liy
rollmimanders.
FTe German 11mbrtassy view is t hat
thie not~e gives allI PresidentI W ilson
aske id for;I that it signalizes a returnt't
to "'cruiser' warefar'e"--thte uts( oIf suhb
maintes as ri gular1 niaval ('ruiser's ini
terceplting comnemree with visit andto
searche1, and that inasmuch as it nmakes0
no mention of the arnmedh Hhli ques
tion, that perplexing feature (of the
controversy is not involved.
Congress took the note quiietly,
alnd although members exptressed a
variety of views, the general senti
ment seemed to be in favor of heavinig
the situation in the hands of PriesI-.
dent Wilson.
Cabinet members went over the~
unfllecial text carefuilly with the
preCsidlent, and(1WI whie thetiy uni11formlIy
refuised to dliscus~s It. they retlected
the view~ that a blreak( had been
alveted(; Ihat GermanyM's ntew assurI
ane1(es wvoul d he accorded tihe t est of
ti me, not withstanin~ltg the reference
to the action Germany expects the,
!'itedh States to take against Great
iUtitaini's restrtaint on nleutral t rade.
They expressed tis view withl fulf
realization of the dofferences otf op~ti-,
ion ont what constitutes a p"'aceful'
merchant ship entitled to the plrotec
('ontinued on). Page Tenaj
