Citizen
The prophet wlu 'j
-own country can sai.
-at the door of poor advt.
-own in his
e blame
Proof
A man doesn't know what is in him
until he tries and he hasn't tried
until he has advertised Scribe
VOL. XXXV, NO. 32
HYDE PARK, VERMONT, WEDNESDAY, MAY 10, 1916.
$1.25 A YEAR
This blue X means that your
subscription expires with this
number and that no more
papers will be sent you unless
your subscription is renewed.
Renew at once so as to receive
next issue of paper.
A Card
We desire to most sincerely
thank the ladies of Morrisville
and vicinity for the generous
patronage given us last week
at our Opening sale of Coats,
Suits, Waists and Dresses.
We beg to assure you that
we are now prepared to show
.you a complete stock of the
latest styles in Summer Shoes
Also in Gents' Shoes, Hats,
Caps, Furnishings, etc.
You are cor dially invited to
call and see our new store and
the new goods therein.
Yours truly,
F. C. LUCE & CO.
BUSINESS NOTICES.
W. F. Benson,
Manager.
Morrisville,
Vermont.
For Sale. White Chester Brood Sow.
Ray Smallky, Morrisville.
For Sale. Good clean barrels, suitable for
cider or vinegar. Enquire at this office.
Wanted. To buy some good Hens.
A. W. Waitb, Morrisville
For Sale. Seed Potatoes.
M. W. Carleton or F. A. Dyke,
Morrisville, R. F. D. 2
Wanted at Oncb. A Capable Boy, 15 ori6
years ot age, tor tarm work.
Tel. 11-4 W. F. Sinclair, Johnson
For Rhmt. Season 1016 H. C. Flsk Pas
ture, near C. H. Small's, Morrisville. Enquire ot
JJ. H. SCR1BXBR, uyae ram
For Sale. One twohorse Lumber Wagon
nearly new ; also one Buggy Wagon. A bargain
if taken at once L. B. Whitney, Eden Mills.
For Sale. One lersey Bull, coming two, solid
color; three yearling Hulls to turn out j one wniie
Chester Brood Sow. H. I. Bashaw, siowe,
Cash Paid. Highest Cash Price paid for
Calves, Cheap Cows, Bulls and Hogs.
Tel.124-31 John Miner, Hyde Park.
Lost. Lamoille County Savings Bank & Trust
Company uaposit Book No. 12,252, issued May
12, 1914. Finder will kindly return book to the
Bank or to the owner.
Ford Auto. A five-passenger Ford Auto for
Sale ; fully equipped and in first-class order. Has
been well used ; will sell at a bargain.
H. A. t oss, Hyde Park.
Wanted. A Girl for General Housework in a
family of three, near Brockton, Mass. For par
ticulars address Mrs. N. J. Perry,
Telephone 11 3 Johnson.
For S alb. House, Barn and one acre of
Land. One nearly new Putnam two horse Wag,
on, one single Work Harness, one Mowing Ma,
chine, one Plow and one Organ.
M. W. Carleton, Morrisville.
For Sale. Two Worcester Kemp Manure
Spreaders at cost. Also three Registered lersey
Bull Calves, sired by Lass 64th Son, sold for
picoo last year. His half-sister sold May 1 for
$5000. iiast chance to get some of his stock.
E M. Houston, Stowe.
When In Doubt
What causes that headache come to
ne and have your eyes examined.
I relieve a great many troubles
with properly fitted glasses.
H. J. EDMUNDS
Optometrist and Jeweler
WILSON BLOCK. MORRISVILLE
MM
BIG DEMAND 1 Will
pay 8 to 9 per ton de
livered at Morrisville. I
want everything you
have to Bell in old Junk
OSCAR KAHN
Lake Street, Morrisville, Vt.
Tel. 25-5
Morrisville's Original Jnnk Man I
MORRISVILLE
Primary ''preferential" next Tuesday.
T. C. Cheney was a business visitor in
S t. Albans Tuesday.
C. C. Warreo and F. C. Luce of Water
bury were in town yesterday.
The St. Johnsbury Daily Caledonian is
on sale at H. L. Stevens' store.
Mrs. James Dunn of Albany was a
recent guest at W, M. Johnson's.
Harold Bailey of Craftsbury wa a
guest Saturday of hi aunt,- Mrs. C. T.
Morrill. '
R. P. Brings, who has been receiving
medical treatment in Burlington for sev
eral weeks, returned home last Saturday
fi' r . . ...
nigni. ms many irienas will De pleased
10 know that be is gaining in health.
At Saleebj's
Buy Your Suits or Coats
MOW
No Woman Will Gain Anything By Waiting
Owing to the recent strike in the Cloak and Suit man
ufacturing industry, it is almost impossible for the cloak
dealers to get any Suits and Coats this season to replenish
their 6tock.
WE WERE LUCKY FOR ONCE:-At the' very hour
when the strike was called and the cloak makers were leav
ing the shops, we happened to be right on the spot. At
once we realized that it was the last chance to get any
Suits or Coats this season. So we bestan to research the
markets and have succeeded in finding the very garments
for which we were looking.
Now we can say that we have the largest and finest
collection we have ever shown in Women's Suits, Coats,
Dresses, Skirts and Waists.
Great variety of styles in Suits and Coats for the
Misses, the regular size and the stout women, and the best
values we nave had to offer this season. All who come
tirst will have the best selection.
VY e are showing a large variety in Graduation Dresses
irom 5z.y to J15.UU.
Nobby Suits for the
Graduating Boy
We have a beautiful line in Suits in the Young Men's
model in blue serge, fancy worsteds and mixtures. Suits
that are properly tailored and priced very reasonably.
Everything else in the line of Furnishings and Shoes
for Men, Women and Children.
A. J. SALEEBY
"THE STORE THAT SAVES YOU MONEY.!
JOHNSON, VERMONT
Mrs. G. H. Prior is spending this week
with her daughter, Mrs. H. J. Sleeper in
Waterbury.
Mr. and Mrs. Harry Neuland have pur
chased an Overland touring car 'of Mc
Mahon Bros.
Miss Lena Sears returned the first o
the week from a few days' stay with
friends in Burlington. '
Mrs. Lizzie Robinson has been visiting
her daughter, Mrs. E. G. Barrows, and
family the past week.
Mrs. F. W. Hunt of Burlington is
spending the week with her friends, Mrs.
Glenn A. Wilkins and Mrs. C. H. Crane,
Morrisville Camp, M W. of A., will at
tend the Methodist church in a body
next Sunday in honor of Mothers' Day,
Mrs. Thomas 0. Hatvey, who has
been with her mother, Mrs. J. W.Daniels,
several months, went Saturday to Bos
ton for an indefinite stay.
Our article regarding some modern
horse sheds for this village meets with
general approval. Everybody says we
need them; who'll start the movement?
Dr. Geo. L. Bates was in Burlington
last Friday on professional business.
The doctor had patients in all the hos
pitals and sanatoriums there at the same
time last week.
Miss Daisy E. Stewart of the U. V. M.
has been elected by merit of "try-out"
work this year to serve as one of the as
sistant editors next year of the college
paper, The Vermont Cynic.
Mr. and Mrs. Homer C. Smith of
Court street are the parents of a nine
pound daughter, born Tuesday morning.
Mrs Lucy Hawkins is caring for mother
and daughter. Congratulations,
Mrs. Alice Hamel, who has been em
ployed in Burlington for several weeks,
returned home Saturday night and is
again occupying tier tenement in tne
Hutchins residence on Hutchins street.
Mr. and Mrs. H. A. Smalley and son,
Francis, Mrs. Elizabeth Thomas, Mrs.
Esther Fitch and Mrs. Helen Shaw went
to Waterbury last Saturday in the Smal
ley automobile, returning Sunday after
noon.
Among the extensive improvements
and repairs to the L. C. Emmons resi
dence on Park street, is the laying of a
cement driveway and walks and grad
ing. The exterior of the house is also re
ceiving a coat of paint.
Mr. and Mrs. A. M. Adams are receiv
ing congratulations on the arrival of a
seven pound son, born last Friday night.
M iss Elizabeth Stone is caring for moth
er and child. The young man has been
christened Channing Leach,
The Last Block factory has been closed
since last Saturday, as it was necessary
to send a barrel saw away for repairs.
They expect to resume work tomorrow.
This is getting to be an important indus
try, 27 men now being employed there.
Last Friday morning Mr. and Mrs. J.
E. Brown returned to their home in
Claremont, N. II., after spending a week
with the latter's sister, Mrs. J. J. Ben
nett. Mr. and Mrs. Brown were on their
wedding trip and much enjoyed their
first visit in Morrisville.
W. C. Ward and George G. Morse
went to Highgate Monday for a few
days' stay at theit cottages, where they
planted gardens, etc. Mr. Ward has
rented one of his cottages to Wirt Frank
lin of Ardmore, Oklahoma, and the fami
ly will spend the summer there.
Mrs. T. C. Cheney took her Sunday
School class of girls to Burlington last
Saturday. There were seven young la
dies in the party and all report a delight
iul trip. They were Misses Phyllis Hill,
Beatrice Schutt. Lucile Bates. Bertha
MacCombie, Muriel Smith, Thelma
Hoyt and Olie Thomas.
The extensive interior repairs to the
F. C. Luce store are nearly completed
and have converted the store into one of
the most up-to-date and attractive in
this section. Their opening of ladies'
spring suits and dresses last Thursday
and Friday was a pronounced success, a
large line being on display.
"The Mysteries of Myra," an inspiring
novel and motion picture drama, deal
ing with the occult forces of good and
evil, the efforts of modern science to pew
etrate the mysteries of our future life be-
the beyond grave, etc., will begin at the
Bijou Theatre Tuesday evening. May 23.
This serial is strictly new, having been
released only since April 24. Manager
Johnson is getting some of the best pro
ductions that are put out and is ever on
the watch for special attrations.
A Straw Vote for President
The American ' Press Association has
inaugurated a nation-wide straw vote
to find out which way the wind blows
for President. The News and Citizen has
been designated to handle the vote in
this section and we trust that every
reader of this paper will be so interested
in the movement that they will take the
pains to fill out the coupon on page four,
designating their choice and mail the
same to us at once. The coupon will be
published this week and next only and
no votes will be received later than
May 20. There is no expense, other
than putting a two cent stamp on the
envelope enclosing your vote. The first
issue of our paper in June will contain
the total returns, classified by, papers
and states, including the votes sent this
paper. It matters not whether you are
a subscriber or not, you tpay vote your
choice if you can get a coupon.
Again the Masonic Temple
The soliciting committee have been
hard at work the past lew days and has
met with grand success. At the regular
meeting this Wednesday evening ot Mt.
Vernon Lodge it Is expected that the J
committee will make a report and a
building committee chosen. Alll mem
bers of the lodge should make an effort
to be present.
Unity Elects Officers
At the meeting of the Unity class at
the Congregational church last Monday
evening, Misses Simpson, Wilcox, Gates
an! Stearns, teachers in the village
school, acted as hostess and the evening
was a most enjoyable one. Ice cream
and cake were served. It being the an
nual meeting, the following officers were
elected for the ensuing year President,
Mrs. L. C. Robinson; Vice President,
Miss Marie Gulick; Treasurer, Miss Su
san Downer; Secretary, Miss Nan Wora-
bell; Chairman Executive Committee,
Mrs. I. Thatcher Sears; Relief Commit
tee, Mrs. A. J. Valleau; Press Represnta-
tive, Miss Belle Barrows.
Brigham vs. P. A., Friday
One of the best games ot the season
will be played between Brigham Acad
emy, and P. A. on Thomas Hill Friday
afternoon. P. A. has a good team, as
usual, and will make a strong bid for the
game. '
Death of Former Resident
Morrisville relatives have received news
of .the sudden death of Edwin B. Stew
art, which occurred at his home in Low
ell, Mass., yesterday morning, at the
age of 58 years. He was the son' of Mrs.
B. W. Stewart and a brother of F. L.
Stewart and Mrs. S.t L. Ring of Morrisr
ville. The remains will be brought here
Friday and burial will take place on
Morristown Plains.
Republican Caucus
The Republican voters of Morristown
will hold a caucus at the Town Hall,
Tuesday evening, May 16, 1916, at 8
o'clock, for the purpose of electing three
delegates and three alternates to repre
sent the town at the State Convention
tt be held in Montpelier Friday, May
26, 1916; also to elect a Republican
Town Committee.
Per Order Town Committee.
THE EA RLE STORE
NEW WHITE SKIRTS
We hare just received one of the largest and handsomest as
sortments of Ladies White Skirts we hare evershowa, They are
made op from Bedford welts, crashes and poplin? aad in many
styles. They also come in all sizes. It seems we might fit any fig
ure ; are especially equipped with skirts for stout figures. Then we
, have them in khaki cloth, an especially good garment for automo-
NEW SHIRT WAISTS
t Just received, another lot of Shirt Waists, and they are some
thing that will appeal to any prudent buyer. They are in all sizes,
np to 46 and sell for a moderate price. There are also more of
those really practical white silk wash waists that sell for $2.00.
AUTOMOBILE CAPS
A new line of these goods. They are just the thing to protect
the face and hair from dust and sun. They are it.
GIRLSISUMMER HATS
These hats are for everyday use. A snappy sport hat that
will be worn extensively at all resorts . Be sure you get yours.
Morrisville,
GEORGE F. EARLE
Vermont
Morrisville Man Appreciated
The following concise and correct esti
mate of a Morrisville citizen, appearing
in the Nimes-Union (Albany, N. Y.) by
Dr. Alexander Crow, under "Methodist
General Conference Sidelights", will in
terest Morrisville friends of Judge Morse,
who is a delegate to the Conference now
in session in Albany:
i "The Vermont Conference Is pretty
proud of its delegation and of George A.
Morse, a man of sterling quality and
great value to his church, and commu
nity. Mr. Morse has been a manufac
turer and dealer in hardwood lumber
for nearly 45 years. He is president of
the Hardwick Savings Bank and Trust
Company. He has been appointed by
the commission to the committee on
itinerance, boundaries, foreign missions,
education, freemen's aid and the Sunday
school. He will Jpe a valuable worker in
the Conference." More laymen of his
type are needed In our Annual and Gen
eral Conferences."
HYDE PARK
Mrs. Leroy Grlswold was a visitor in
Morrisville today.
Miss Helen Wood is visiting friends at
Manchester Center.
C. A. Calderwood of St. Johnsbury
was in town yesterday.
There will be a meeting of the Hyde
Park Fish and Game Club at S. B-
Waite't office next Friday evening.
Mrs. Nora Carpenter of Greenville,
Mass., has been visiting her sister, Mrs.
Frank Nichols, and other relatives here.
J. M. Kelley and G. A. Wilkins of Mor-. will also take place, followed by a dance
risville were in town Monday, soliciting at the Hyde Park Inn. Music for the oc-
subscriptions for the Masonic Temple, casion will be furnished by the Springer
Hyde Park has responded liberally. t Trio Orchestra of Burlington.
John Darling and wife from Oak Bluffs,
Mass., and Dr. Goddard and wife of Al
bany, were visitors in town yesterday.
Democratic caucus at Odd Fellows hall
Tuesday eve., May 16th, at 7.30, to elect
three delegates and three alternates to
attend the State Convention at Burling
ton May 25th, which will elect delegates
to the Democratic National Convention,
Also to elect a Town Committee.
A Republican caucus for the purpose of
electing three delegates and three alter
nates to attend the State Convention at
Montpelier May 26, which is to elect
delegates to the Republican National
Convention, will be held at the town
hall Tuesday. May 16, at 8.15 p. m. ,A
Town Committee will also be eiected at
that time. - -. ,
The contract for building the Lanpher ,
Memorial Library has been awarded to
J. L. Bergeron & Son of Burlington.
, There were, six bids. ' H.'E; McLean, the
architect, was here from boston yester
day and the contract was closed that
day. The building is to be of tesselated
brick with granite trimmings and is to
be completed Oct. 15th. Work will.be
commenced on the same at once.
The L. C. A. graduation exercises take "
place at the Opera House Friday eve.,
June 2d. The speaker on that occasion
will be Capt. Ira L. Reeves, president of
Norwich University. The alumni banquet
will be served by the Ladies' Aid at the
Odd Fellows' hall Thursday eve., June 1,
at which place the post prandial exercises
E. W. Terrill will leave tomorrow
night for Boston, where he will join a
large company of. New England grocers
in an excursion by special train to Wash
ington, D. C, and other points. The
trip is given by the Berry-Dodge Co. to
dealers who have disposd of the largest
amount of a popular brand of coffee.
The other members of the free trip ia this
county are B. C. Hawley of Jefferson ville
and R. M. Hubbcll of Wolcott. George
Saxby will assist in the store during Mr.
TerriU's absence.
Lamoille Grange
The regular meeting of Lamoille
Grange will be held Thursday afternoon,
May 11. Important business is to be dis
cussed at this meeting. Every member
please make a special effort to be pres
ent, The Lecturer's program will be as
follows: Vocal duet, Mrs. Fred Sillo-
way and Mrs. Ryle Farr; extracts from
Vermont Grange Bulletin. Several other
important topics will be taken up, also
a discussion of the following question,
found in the chip basket, "What Can We
Do as an Organization to Improve the
the Community?" Speakers, Mrs. J. R,
Parker, and Mrs. C. F. Smith, and Kev
W. E. Baker.
The Blue Birds of the M. E. church
eave a birthday party to Miss Ruth
Clark at the home of Miss Charlotte
Camp last Monday evening. All of the
girls of the class were present and sev
eral of the young ladies who are interest
ed in the work. A number of presents
were given to the guest of honor, who
thanked the donors in a pleasing manner
It was a pleasant, social evening, games
and music occupying the time.
The floor covering sale at White's,
which was announced in the News and
Citizen last week, has been a big success
and has been liberally patronized "by
townspeople and many from the nearby
towns. The sale does not close until
May 20th.
Harry Sears bad a narrow escape from
drowning last Sunday at Lake Lamoille.
He accidentally fell into the lakeand went
down twice before he was rescued by
Neil Byne and others, who happened to
be near enough to go to his assistance.
Mrs. Helen Shaw left today for Queen
City Park, where she will spend the sum
mer at her cottage.
Democratic Caucus Tuesday evening
at 8 o'clock.
I
iProlcclYcurllomeT
aiiisilkDgdlyFl
WITH
For. Your Auto
Floor
Will stand rain, sun and the con
stant wear of shifting feet. Looks
well and it's easy to keep clean.
- Armstrong's Linoleum
is as sightly as more expensive floor
coverings and stands up well under
d"'st or grinding dirt. Any color
TOany patterns.
Keep your Car like new with
Johnson's
Prepared
Wax
WE KEEP IT!
r-rrri All
;:p .'-"-j Standard
. ''Ip' I Sizes
' Kepi
Slock
CI. B. WHITE & CO.,
Lamoille County's Largest Home Furnishers
Morrisville - - Vermont
