A
Y
MAILS
From San Franciaeo
' Persia Mara, Dec 30.
For 8an Francisco
Wilbelmina, Dec. 27.
. From V.ancouvtr
Niagara, Dec. 27.
For Vancouver
r
rrV
Evening Bull tin. Est. 1SS2, No.
Hawaii ju Star. Vol. XXIV. No. 7707
UPAGES HONOLULU, TERRITORY OF HAWAII, TUESDAY, DECEMBER 2C, 191C 14 PAGES
'.. PRICE FIVE CENTS
o)
15)
3:23
EdiSson
am
0
i
-1 -' .
ME TO SECURE
25,000 CHiriESE
FOR HAWAII flDE
Farm Cornn and W. H. Hindle
Leave for Washington to
Interview Congressmen
Hope to Get Support of Or
ganized Labor
To endeavor to Interest Washington
cfficiala and congressmen in a plan
to bring into the Territory pr Hawaii
2",,0o0 Chinese as laborers, Farm
(tornn, well-known local Chinese busi
nessman, and W. H. Hindle of the
Mercantile Reference Agency, left this
morning for Washington on the Great
Northern, This plan, which has been
ii'-der consideration for several years,
is apparently backed by all the Chi
nese interests In the Islands, includ
ing the Chinese Chamber of Com
merce. From information received
from Washington It Is understood that
several congressmen- and government
offlciala are in favor of the plan and
that Farm Coma's proposition will be
lven every consideration. "
; While on the mainland he will also
see Samuel Gompers, bead' of the
American Federation of Labor, and try
to obtain union labor's support, the
idea being that if the Chinese are per
,mi trvrome into the territory they
will remain here as a constant labor
supply, while a, number or nationali
ties brought here soon emigrate to the
states and thus disrupt the labor or
ganizations there. I
As a local argument It Is pointed out
i that the rice Industry here is dying
out and if a sufficient number of Chi
nese .are imported that important in
dustry will "be revived.
C. K. Ai, manager of the City Mill
Company, is actively interested in the
bpHpvlne It will be of un
told benefit to the islands. Ai said
this morning that be has naa a num
ber 'of communications from United
States congressmen, including John L.
BurnetV chairman of the house Im
migration committee, and James L.
Slay den of Texas, .in which- the, tone
indicates that they favor the Idea.
"There are also ft number of Honolulu
Uitlneesmen ( giving their aupport, he
Kald.' .. -"' : ' '
When a party of congressmen visit
ed Hawaii in the spring of 1915, local
Chinese approached Burnett and other
members of the house immigration
committee, as well as congressmen
not on the committee, to. discuss the
question, of abrogating the Chinese
Exclusion Act or modifying it in some
respect so that a large number of Chi
nese coii'd be brought here.
It appears that the Chinese socle
tips and other Chinese interests have
been at work on the project eve4
since, tnou&h. quietly, rarra tjornna
visit is to secure early action If pos
': Bible. ". ' : ''..' ' .,
Sur-BaIlot!a SptcUI ty Mntaal Wireless
r v
HILO, Hawaii," Dec 26A big
cplumn of steam and smoke at -t-
6:30 o'clock yesterday morning
f shot from tho' crater of Mokua-
weoweo and most of the day
could be seen from Hilo.
No report on the phenomena
has yet been made by either 4
f Prcf. T. A. Jaggar or Prof. H. O.
Wood of the Volcano observa-
tory. . . ,
Both Mauna Lea and Mauna
Kea are snow-covered down to -f-
the timber line. It 5 probable
that the outbreak la on the Kau
side.
Mokuaweoweo" la tJe summit
crater of Mauna Ioa. the. great
volcano bn Hawaii. It is a large
depressionproduced by collapse,
in the broad summit plateau -f
whlch terminates the huge dome
of the mountain.. It Is only oc-
caslonally that smoke and steam -t-are
seen here.
4
DEFEAT TURKS
BRITISH AGAIN
: (Aoritd Prrtl b Federal Wirelew) :
LONDON, Kng, Dec. 26. Following
y j up its victory against the Turks In
Si the capture of El Arlsh, 90 miles east
.$f' of the canal, the British in Egypt have
. captured the strong Turkish position
of Maghdadah, 20 miles southeast of
El Arlsh. They, captured 1100 Turks
and tribesmen here and a considerable
quantity Of munitions.
H. M. von Holt has filed in circuit
court his bond of $100,000 as guardian
. of Cecil Brown; an alleged mentally
non-competent person. The National
r Surety Co. is surety for Mr. von Holt
I NEW YORK STOCK 1
MARKET TODAY
Satur
Today; day.
Alaska .Gold . .......
American Smelter ...
American Sugar Rfg.
American Tel. & Tel.
Anaconda Copper
11'a
10514
109H
1254
105
110
125U
83! 4
104',
59
84
500 -:
25'2
167 .
91 4
46
62
35
169',
117?.
119
45'4
79ft
104'4
.56!
2V2
9S
1114
; 225'2
148
107
119?
102ft
97
- 56 .
82'2
Atchison
Baldwin Loco.
104! 4
58' 2
84'.
503 :
25
92
'45;
59
V 34H
1673,
117
121
45
80
103i
56 4
264
97', 4
111ft
2114
147
l06'8
120
100!4
Baltimore 6. Ohio .....
Bethlehem Steel ......
Calif. Petroleum
Canadian Pacific
C M. t St P. (St. Paul
Colo. Fuel & Iron .....
Crucible Steel ........
Erlo Common .........
General Electric ......
General Motors .......
Great Northern Pfd...
Inter. Harv., N. J . .
Kennecott Copper ......
Lehigh R. R.. ........ .
New York Central ....
Pennsylvania . .
Ray Consol. :. . .
Southern Pacific
Studebaker ....
TCXjaS ' m
Union Pacific .
US. Steel ....
US. Steel Pfd.
Utah ..........
Western Union
Westinghouse
97
1.
55 ft
Bid. tEx-dlvldand. t Unquoted.
HOOZE LEADS TO
Hundreds of Soldiers and Civil
ians in Near-Riot on Hotel
, Street Following Fights
Mob violence and a near-riot on
Hotel ;streeL.la8t,night(L with aoldiera
and civilians participating In about
equal numbers, marred an otherwise
quiet, peaceful Christmas day ; in Ho
nolulu. ' '; . '
- Responsibility for the first out
break n as not yet been 'entirely set
tled. The police lay the real respon
sibility to booze, which led to an ex
change of words between a civilian
chauffeur and an army private. ; A
fight of two men afterwards devel
oped into a series of fights and the
visit of a crowd estimated at about
700 men and boys to the neighborhood
of the ; police station following the
arrest of three soldiers.
L. Palenapa, the giant Hawaiian of
the police department, was badly
beaten ' !n the melee.
, To prevent a spread of the riot spirit
most of the . downtown saloons were
closed. (. .
Stories differ as to details, but it
appears that the brawling crowd in
cluded civilians, soldiers, sailors and
a few policemen trying, to stem the
rush. The police say that it began
with some -soldiers being too ready to
fight and pass remarks at girls along
the strseL The policemen were jostled
about and eeve-al figured in "rough
house .scenes 5 stones and bottles
were thrown, the police drew their re
volvers on several occasions and all
the provost guards available were
rushed to the scene. The iw began
(Continued. on pace two)
AT WHITE HOUSE
(Asorited Pre by FederM Wirele)
v A SH 1MGTON, U. C Dec. 26.
President Wilson, his three daugh
ters and their family, and Mrs. Wilson
celebrated Christmas with a big tree.
a dinner and an exchange of presents
among the family.
Every married employe in the White
House was given a turkey, the gift
of the President.
Many handsome gifts, and letters
and telegrams from all parts of the
world came, to the White House.
President Wilson and his wife at
tended the community singing on the
steps of the treasury building Christ
mas Eve. A vast crowd was present
when Mr. and Mrs. Wilson appeared
unexpectedly. Adults and children
joined in the ; singing of Christmas
Carols and hymns. Mr. Wilson was
handed a sheet of music with the
words and music of some of the carols
printed upon it, and thanked the usner
with a smile.
MEMORIAL SERVICES
v FOR SUFFRAGE LEADER
f AMciated Preon by F4erl Wirelesn)
WASHINGTON, D. C. Dec. 26.
Memorial services were, held by suf
fragettes in many stites tcday in
honor of the memory of Inez Milhcl
land Boissevain. the notevl youn? suf
frage leader, who died recently in Los
Angeles. . Services here . were in
Statuary hall.
n mmm
GHRIMSIGHT
GALA CHRISMS
Late News At A Glance
NEWS OF MANY SINKINGS REACHES WASHINGTON
1 WASll.OTO.N;vD. C, Dec. 2C Despatches to various departments tell
of the finking in' the war zone of th? Norwegian bark Ansartgar and the
' J'-jritish KeameraCstt'ar,"- Incaim, I.langos and Miirex..
3T0RM KING GRIPS NORTHWESTERN STATES
SPOKANE, Wash Dec. 26. Eastern Washlrfiton, northern Idaho and
Montana are in the giip of a chill winter atorm. At Havre, Montana, the
thermometer registers 22 degrees below zero, and at Butte 15 below.- Much
snow has fallen.
SALT 1AKK CITY. Utah, Dec. 20. Snow foil so heavily here today that
street-car -service is blockaded. ,'- '-',''
i STOCKHOLDERS HEAR OF VISIT TO MINi.
At Z o'cloci: this afternoon a nu-nher :f the stocKiiolders of the Engels
Copper Company met in the office of James F. Morgan Company and lis
tened to Col. J. W. Jcnes, who told of his rerent vioit to. the mine and of
what he had observed. -
j THAYER'S RESIGNATION IS ACCEPTED AT WASHINGTON
Wade Warren Thayer, secretary of the territpy, hai received accept
ance of his resignation from that on ice in a letter from Franklin K. I.ane,
to retary of the interior. The letter arrived on the Manoa today.
LOAN FUND HEARS REQUEST OF CONTRACTORS.
Members of the loan fund commission met today at noon to consider the
request of Plcanco & Gomes, Maole ditch and tunnel contractors, for the
use of. non-ciilzen labor. The contractors are unable to get citizen laborers
to submit to a doctor's examination. No action was taken, the meeting be
ing finally adjourned'until tomorrow, when Dr. J. S. B. Pratt, president of
the health board, will be asked to attend. .
EOMB PLOT AGAINST UTAH GOVERNOR FAILS
SALT LAKE CITY, Utah, Dec 26. A reward of $10,5C0 was offered to
cay for the discovery of the man or men responsible for placing a bomb. in
the rear of Governor Spry's home on Christmas. Six arrests of . suspects
have been made, including four Eeetius men. They were afterwards releas
ed. Joseph Hillstrom, the I. W. W. man executed for the murder of the gro
cer, Morrison, was arrested in 1914 at Esellus' home. Sweden interfered to
save Hillstrom's life and the case became a celebrated one, Governor Spry
tefuted to commute the death penalty.
HOLD UP BILL FROM PUBLIC UTILITIES AUDITOR : :
A bill from H. Gooding Field, special auditor, for 1275, was laid on the
table this afternoon at the meeting of the public utilities commission. At
the suggestion of Commissioner A. J. Gignoux the bill will await Uie re
turn of Chairman CV R. Forbes before being acted upon. It is "for profes
sional services as auditor at hearings and furnishing financial data" on
the Inter-Island matter, the dates running from November 13 to Decem
ber 11. . There are a total of 11 days mentioned at $25 each. No one pre
sent was able to answer regarding what agreement Field had had with.
' the' chairman.- . ' ' .' f :..'.' ' :h: '
" YUNG PLANS TO START SCHOOL OF AVIATION .
- Sen Yet Yung, who returned from the mainland yesterday; is the first
citizen of Hawaii to be granted a license to operate an aeroplane. Yunsc is
a Honolulu boy, having spent ail Jiis life in this, city, with the exception of
the last two years.- He 1s a son of .Mr. and Mrs. Yung Ahin of lrTl
.Auld lane. ,: . - -." '. .
- I will bring an aeroplanj to Hawaii in 1917 and will then start a
school of aviation," said Yung ihia afternoon. "Hawaii may need aeroplanes
for protection In Rome future time, and it will be well for the. youug men
here to know howl to fly. If 1 can secure a field I will begin the school
it once upon the arrival of u.y plane. "
. ,. WILL INVESTIGATE PREPARATION OF DATA
Matthew M. Graham, special auditor for the Inter-Island Steamship Com
pany, who dropped in for a moment at the public utilities commission meet
ing this afternoon, surprised Commissioners Carden and Gignoux when he
stated in response to a question that he is not preparing figures to show
. the amount of profits made by various departments of the company front
tre steamship department. ' ' :'' :
" have not been told to prepare these figures." , Graham replied to
Carden, who had asked if they were ready. "Naturally, when workfng for
them I take their instructions in the matte."
. Finally the commissioners decided to hold a special meeting on Thurs
day, requesting officers of the company to attend to determine; whether or
not the figures are being prepared at all. . . 1 ."
YEAR'S JURYMEN
ARE MSEC FOR
CIRCUIT COURT
Trial and Grand Veniremen for
1917 Term WiltBe Drawn
- Thursday
Man!ey G. K. Hopkinsand Melville
T. Simonton, jury commissioner, have
filed sn circuit court a list of; .250
names .i persons eligible to serve as
trial jurors, and a list, of 75 names of
Itersons eligible to' serve as grand
jurors, for the ! 91 7. term of the first
circuit court at Honolulu. -
The arawlng of jurymen for the term
will be held at 10 o'clock next Thurs
day morning in Circuit Judge Ash
fcrd's. court, at which time each of
the three divisions of the court will
select; 2ft trial jurors. Twenty-three
grand jurors also will be selected.
Follovmg Is the list of grand jury
men: First Precinct, Fourth District
Jospnhiis C. Axtell. Kdward Robert
Bath, .lohn F. Child, Charles J. Fienig,
Jacob Lando, Thomas James McGrath,
Ed. Towse.
Second Precinct, Fourth District
Henrv F. Bertelmann. Charles Ger
ald Backus, Abraham Gartenberg, J.
Henry ITertscho. James sterner.
Third Precinct, Fourth District
Jonsnaea F. C. Abel. Marston Camp
bell, Chrrles ; it. Frazier. Ferdinand
Henry Hens. Alexander G. Horn. Wil
liam K. Macpherson. ; i
Fourth Precinct, Fourth District
Maurt.'e Brasch, Elam P. Chapin,
William F, Gaynor, James E. Jaeger,
George T. Klueael, Jesse M. McChes-
ney. -.!
Fifth Precinct, Fourth District
W'illirun Georg-e Chalniers, Louis L.
La Plrre. James D. Levenson. Frank
R Rlchirdscn, Charles Dana Wright.
" f Continued on page dree)
At the mid-week service of Cential
Union church to be held in the parish
house on Wednesday evening Ht 7:30
o'clockV the subject to be considercl
will be "Important Events of the Pat
Year." The significance of the great
events crowded into 191C wilt be dis
cussed. "
RERUN REPORTS
OH LAST 3 DAYS
(Oennmn Offifil
BERLIN, Germany, Dec. 24. It is
officially reported in ' the war off ice
announcement on the early results to
day that in the WesL on account of
unfavorable " weather, there is only a
little fighting activity. On the east
front there is comparatively nothing
Important The Dobrudja is about
cleaned of enemies, with the exception
cf the terrain between Macin and
Yaccea. At 'Doiran lake there Is "tem
porary artillery activity.
BERLIN, Germany,, Dec.; 25. Offi
cial war office announcement '. today
says that both tlie west and east
fronts are" generally . calm. In the
Dobrudja, the town.; of . Isaccea - has
been captured. Near Tulcea artillery
fire continues. On -- the Macedonian
front there Is nothing Important."
BERLIN, Germany, Dec. 26. Offi
cial report of the war office today
says that neither on the east nor west
front is there a large action. In Ru
mania the Central Powers continue to
make progress. On the Macedonian
front there ', are ny incidents of im
portance. .
Sugar Prices Are
' 4 4- -f
Alexander & Baldwin has re
ceived tthe following week-end
sugar cable letter from its New
York house:;
-NEW YORK, N. Y., Dec. 23.
Sales for the week were 62,000
bags Cubas, 37,000 bags Porto
Ricos and 5000 tons of full duty.
Cubas are salable at 4.08, Porto
Ricos and full duty 5.07 for Jan
uary. Cubas first half of January
saleable at 4.08, all January 4.02,
February and March 3.S9. There
are 41 centrals grinding. :
4 -f
Rev. Charles P. Dole will be the
sunflowers, and death like autumn,"
home "in Deshi lane Sunday night.
Trending
Lower
U. S. Will
Catt Halt
On Mexico
Carranza Must End His Dilatory
. , Tactics By Tonight or Com
munications Will End
(Associated Press hy Federal Wirele.)
VASII1OTO. I). C: Dec. 2'J.
Unless Provisional President CKrtan
za of .Mexico by the end of toJay re
turns to the I'nited States povern
ment a favorable answer to the bst
communication outlining IT. S. de
mands cr safety meaures on the
border, communications between the
American government and Mexico, will
be severed. The United States will
not parley further-over the' situation.
EL PASO. Tex.. Dec. 2o Days of
bitter sleet, snow and heavy winds
along the border have caused almost
an entire cessation of activities. Drills
have been suspended for a week be
cause of the heavy downfall. Tenu
have been blown down in the cam ns
'and many officers and enlisted men
near El Paso spent last night in ho
tels. ;..
HEADQUARTERS U. S. EXPEDI
TION IN MEXICO. Dec. "26. Christ
mas Eve and Christmas Day wero gala
occasions with the American troop i in
Mexico. Every man on the expedi
tion, from the lowliest mule-driver to
the "general, received a present valued
at $2 or f 3. ! So work except that ab
solutely necessary was done. With
the singing of carols, the playing of
bands and athletic contests the enter,
tainments were gay and-picturesque.
Great feasts were served in all the
company messes. For days the army
cooks had. been preparing the edibles,
including antelope, turkey, .chicken
and wild duck.; - ;
On Christmas Eve fireworks cost!ns
$00 were set off. The Mexicans gath
ered in the neighborhood of the camp
were startled as the explosions and
names" shooting into the heavens sud
denly broke cut on Christmas Eve.
IN HEAVY GALE
(AtKoriated Press by Fed-1 Wirelesn)
NANTUCKET, M ass., Dec. 26. A
heavy gale sweeping up and down the
toast last night wrecked the schoon
ers Roger Drury, Daniel McLoud and
Ravola. No lives are thought to have
been lost.- " . ;. .'-
HIGH WAR COST
T.lsnON. Port neal. Dec. 26. The
Portuguese cabinet has decMed to j
create a war and public economy com
mittee with extensive powers.
ROMK, Italy, Dec. 2U. Prpi
dent Wilson's move for eare has
l-et-eivetl the jiraise of The Vati
can. :-; ;' v' .';." ; ;
Pope. IJenedii-t, sakinj: yester
day through Cardinal (iasparri,
the papa 1 secret a ry of state, re
garding the Wilson note said:
"It is a document showing the
honesty, justice and farsighted
ness of the American president."
MT. LASSEN
UKDDIXG, Pali f orn la. I ec. 20.
mi. lessen vesteraavr iiegan a
heavy erupt ion.
DUTCH VESSEL RELEASED
AFTER GERMAN INQUIRY
''. ' : . t: f ,
(German OUciallj
BERLIN, Germany, Dec. 23 The
German sea forces "operating off Flan
ders on the night of December 20
brought into Zeebcugge, from a raid
on Hoffden, a Dut .-h steamer, the
Otis Tetrax, bound from Rdttcrdam
to England. Since examination prov
ed that there was no contraband on
board the steamer was ! released at
noon. .. '.' ',;. ;-
SCHOONERS LOST
PORTUGAL FEELS
Pope Benedict
Lauds Wilson
m ERUPTION
TEUTONS DECLARE THEIR Ol'Jil
GROUP READY TO COLLABORATE
WITH WILSON TO END TOG
Naval Battle in Straitsof Otranto
Berlin Says Four Allied Warships
Damaged---Main Land Fighting is
in Rumania
(Aaoiml4 PrM 8lr by Federal Wir !) ;
LONDON, England, Dec. 26. In an Interview today tht Russian foreign
minister, M. Pokrpvski declared emphatically that Russia will stand by the
Allies. He outlined the situation as it' now develops saying that thtr will
be no change In the relations between RuS3ia and the other members of
the Entente group. He asserted that after the war the military alliance be
tween France, Britain and Russia will be consolidated into a close economic
union, and, says that the present war will be continued until a decisive vic
tory is won. ;:.'..
WASHINGTON, D. Dec 26. Pope Benedict is expected to support
President Wilson's move for peace, according to officials here.
The Swiss minister, Dr. Paul Ritter, will interview the- president in a
few days to discusa peace.
Ho'iand, Spain arid the Scandinavian countries are expected to lend their
indorsement and assistance to the president move. : '. .f; .
; IJEHLTX, ( Jennany. Dec. 20. Germany today promised to the
powns that theiv le an immediate meeting in an effort to bring peace.
The (iertium projwisal i uiade in the? answer to Presideut Wil
hon's note, the answer Inking given through diplomatic ehinnels today,
and at the same time made public by the German government.
The answer is the joint reply of (lermany, Austria, llulgaria and
Turkey, the notes of the latter three? being containetl: in the Gerhian
statement. ' vu-; ;;'; :'' "; ? ;';'' ;,..;' ., '';
, I erl in suggests that each of the. belligerents natne delegates to
meet and discuss peace terms and urges that the meeting be arranged
at ouce. - : '-. .;.' j - ' - ; ' J :-1 v ;
1 . The text of the answer by (iermany to President. Wilson's note,
which called 'ujhui the l)elligei-ents to state the terms for which they
a lis fighting and sounded tlu'in on peace, possibilj ties, wnshandext to
A mbtosador Gerard today. , ' ' : "'' " ' " V" . r:
Germany's reply is in jiart as follows: . . -v i 'J '
"The high-minded suggestion of Prtident Wilson, to create. a
basis for lasting-peH.ev is leing tonsidered in the friendly 8plrttt3r '
pi-essed in the president's communications, The president points out
that which he has at heart and leaves open the choif-e ofd tWi7: ;
"To the Imperial German, government, an immediate exchange
of views seems to' lie the most appropriate road in order to reach the
desired result. It begs, therefoiv, as was the sense of the declaration
of December 12. which offered a hand for peace negotiation, to pro
pose an immediate meeting of delegates representing the belligerent
arties, in Nome neutral place. ! . i '. "..
"The Imperial government is also of the opinion that the great
work of preventing further wars can lie liegun only after the end of
the present stmggle of nations. It will, when this moment shall
come, be rtfady with pleasure to collaborate entireJy with the United
States in this exalted task' ;' ' : " j
The note concludes with the usual diplomatic terms of 61iteness.
WASIIINCJTOX, I). ('., I h'c. 20. OOicials here are:snnrised at
Germany's action in giving out the text of the note in reply to Pre
sident Wilson's 'recent suggestion. It was made public in Berlin be
fore reaching Washington; Neither the president nor. Secretary of
State Lansing would make any comment today.
(Ji:Xi:V.. Switzerland, Dec. 20. Strong supiort of President
Wilson's eace move has come from Swiss sources. . ' .
The influential Journal de Geneve gives emphatic praise to the
president's note-to the lielligerent nations. ?
"We Swiss and other neutrals," says this newspaper 'thank this
good Kepublican and salute them with resiect. He dared to propose
Foniething precise iu order to realize his specific ambitions.
"His words have caused a gleam of hope for this dark Christmaa."
Meets Battle Off Italian Coast;
Berlin Says Ally Warships Damaged
, (AtMcItUd Ptm Scrvle by rdrl WirU) v
IU:i:LIX, Germany. Dec. 20. Two Allied patrol boats were Sunk
."i.nd four Allied warships wei-e damaged in an. engagement today in
the Straits of Otranto. Two Austria destrovers were hit . a
The Straits of Otranto lie lietween Italy and Albania, at the en
trance to the Adriatic S'a. Most of the vessels in the Allied net
which cruises here are Italian. The Austrians maintain a fleet in
the Adriatic, with a bascHat Vohu
; :; jt .,;:;;-;..; ;' -.-.-
Allied War-Vessels Off New Enknd
: (Amoc1u4 Frea Srrie fcy rdral Wlroleu)
BOSTOX.MaNS., Dec 20. The presence of an Allied fleet in At
lantic waters off this coast is taken to indicate that the "warships are
sent a commerce protectors, in view of the U-S.Ts raids on Entente
? hipping. They arrived armed a nd. disguised in American waters
only recently, according to rewrfs"which are credited.
Russo-Rumanians Virtually Trapped
(iitocisted Prci rrrlec by Federal WtralMa) .'
IJKRLIX, Germany, Der. 25. After the capture of the town of.
Isakechai( Isaccea) on the Danube, von Mackenseri's army has begnn
an attack on the bridgehead of Matchin, northwestern corner of Dob
rudja province, where the Kussian and Rumanian forces hae' re
treated. . ; ;"; ; " ' ' :- ' '. ' : "-
On other fronts tolay the situation was relatively quiet.;" -
IlEKLIX. Germany, Dec. 20. 3Iore than S000 more prisoners
have lieen taken in northwestern Rumania. Filipechti, between Ruzen
and Brail i, has k-en captured at the -point of the bayonet and Rus
sian positions onboth sides of Filipechti stormed. '
