fm w the M &w md4is ove.o
foa ammw pc Vmmm
NO.tmp6. Cam Vi. HW H T 'U C D E 2 9O
Hw& Evau toiwe yewr deaw-Dailmy% m66@scwm
and .wmhy 30c a =o& ime I th. odi4
16s H..aub.stii wasthetem
NO. 3716. WUAiMa-FAMn WASHINGTON, 1). C.. TUE:SDAY, DEREMBE R 26, 1916. ONE CN-"3. W
BIG GUNS POUND
RUSSIAN FRONT
Battle Along the Sereth River
May Be Greatest of
the War.
(Uy *he Messem-e... New. Seryies,)
The battle of the Bereth is in fall blent.
Alsg a front of M miles from the
Kadmno River, In the area between the
Cargathlan Countase and the Transyl
Vanian Alpm, eastward to the headwaters
of the Danuber fPeld Marshal Von Mach
ement, in the early hours ,of Christmas
Day, opened what holds promise to be
esme the biggest and most fateful offen
at" ad the war.
With a "drumfre" whose S Irns Is
* ba%** by the Russian war ooe
buistlet, the big Teuton guns emplaced
in a hoge aemicirole fronting the Bereth
and the southern border of Bessarabia.
ere betering the Russo-Rumnian de
tense positions and paving the path for
hinfrtry onslaughts upon whom success
er failure hangs the fate of the entire
southern line of the Russians from Vol
hyna down to the Wransylvanian ridges
and whose ultimate goal is Odessa.
At some points the Teuton shelling was
so terrific that, according to official ad
mission from Petrograd the Rumanians
and their Muscovite allies were forced
to seek cover from Its murderous hail.
In other sectors. the invaders have al
ready sent their infantry into battle.
pushing back the defenders.
The center of Mackensen's attacking
front 'faces the Focaami-Galatz-Braila
line, a powerful defense sector, fortified
years ago by the Rumanians against a
possible Russian invasion. Rimnicu
Berat, the rail head north of Buseu and
Braila., are the immediate objectives of
the center. These points captured, the
battle lines will be pushed automatically
to the outh bank of the Bereth.
Teutons Close to Sereth.
Meanwhile the Teutons are menacingly
close to the Sereth at the middle course
and, with a view to crossing there, are
hurling an avalanche of steel into the
defense lines. Already their infantry has
pushed back the Rumanian troops in
some places. according to the Petrograd
statement. I
Thrusting eastward against the river
from the Vranchea Mountains, and on
both banks of the Kasino River, the Teu
tons, who on this front are probably un
der the immediate command of Gen. von
Falkenhayn, who has marked time for
weeks, pending the Dobrudja develop
ments. are aiming at forcing the Sereth,
thus to for'e the whole Russian line on
the mountain front to withdraw to the
oast, and at the same time to outflank
the bulk o f the Russo-Rumanian army
defending the vital southern Sereth line.
To the south of Rakevacheni. which
les 175 miles almost due west of Odessa.
the Tentins. with the pressure of their
tevrific bombardnent, succeeded in cap
turing a height. Petrograd concedes.
As it to emphasize just how fierce the
shelling is. the Russian report goes on
say that the height was retaken In
a counter attack, "but our detachment
svon ab<rdnred it agiln. as the enemy
-v .ig it with shells.
T ZUiia9 war oflMe describes the
-inieitdm-nt north of the Buzeu-Rim
ri iaat :is "partiularly fierce." and
it di -1tl for.,hadows the fall of Rimni
tu-Sarat by staiing that the firing was
"extremely fiere" in the neighborhood of
Iroguj.t F mill village ir the Immediate
icinity he big rail head.
RAILWAY NET EARNINGS
WILL TOTAL A BILLION
Interstate Commerce Reports Show
Phenomenal Increase for Year.
The not enrnings of the railroads of
the I'nited Stite- for th. year 1916. will
amouint to mnre than S1.00.fio0, under
present onditions. according to reports
1to the ntprrtate Commerce Commission.
The commission has complete reports
on the .arnings and expenses of the rail
roads for the first nine months of the
'ear. anol they show a phenomenal gain
in the business and earnings of the car
riers for that period.
The monthly reports submitted to the
commission by the roads, show that the
increased net earnings, which amount to
in the neighborhood of a hundred million
a month. have increased for two reasons.
First the tremendous increase In traffic
due to the export business. incident to
the European war has increased the
gross revenues, and second the roads
have generally reduced the ratio of oper
ating expenses. As a result the net in
come has grown by leaps and bounds.
The general increase began shortly
after the railroads were granted in
creased freight rates in te 5 per cent
rate came, and the Western rate case and
various related applications for higher
rates, which covered practically the
whole country. Immndiately after these
rates were advanced the monthly reports
show that the operating expenses took
a drop and the gross income Increased.
SUES TO DEFEND CAT.
New York. Dec. K.-Alleging that she
shot at his cat with an air rifle and also
complained to the police about his goat.
Nicholas Knox,.2 Stuyvesant avenue,
has brought suit for $t,000 damages
against Mrs. Caroline Snow, wife of the
R1ev. Ctgarles E. Snow, of 18 Agate court.
Further damages, the amount of which
the Supreme Court is asked to fix, are
asked on the ground that the complaint
about the goat brought to the Knox
home a series of police visits which up
set Mrs. Knox greatly.
New York. Dec. 5.-Esra B.No, jr.,
a mnember of the Seventh Regiment, was
feind yesterday morning, in full uni
ferm, dead from gas In the kftchen of
his home at Peekakil.
In his desk *as a letter he had re
eetved the night before from his former
fianee, Miss MIldred Barger, of 312,wal
nut steet, Peekakill. She wrote that,
dmrig his absence at the border, she had
*. married John McCord, of Brooklyn.
- 3A3 PRICE.
Whee-ng. W. Vs., De. 5.-The Wheel
Ing Daily News has announced that Its
sUseri5U rates weli be advaned
heam e S ame a weea. -...- =
Vmd Flaue S. 0. L;
Sikhg _0 Nant-cket
New Teh. Dee. : SI.-- The
000m- 1p Maryland seat oat Wire
'sM oln at 12845 a. 2. this
aeatag, whoe sixty mse seath
e-t of Nanteket. stating that
the -1sel was e=Mki= rapily.
The message was pieked up by
the steamme City of Savmnah.
which flashed a wireleas laessage
to the efeot that she was going to
the ssiutane ef- the distressed
vasseL.
There at two Oteames of the
amess of Maryland. One is a
Brttisher, whieh loft Philadelphia
Deoomber 32. The other is owned
by the Atitle Transport Line.
FORM MONEY PACT
Bank of England Named Cor
respondent of U. S. System.
A tremenjous alliance between the
financial f'gaisations of the United
States and Great Britain was outlined In
a statement issued by the Federal Re
serve Board hero yesterday.
The board has authorized the Federal
ReservO Bank of New York to name as
one Of its foreign correspondents, the
Bank of England. The arrangement will
link the two greatest government finan
cial organisations In the world, for the
conduct of International business. The
permission granted by the Reserve Board
will be extended to all other Federal Re
serve banks which may wish to arrange
for reciprocal business relations with the
great British institution.
The statement issued by the Reserve
Board said. in part:
"The Federal Reserve Board byse a
thorised the Federal Reserve Bank of
New York to appoInt as one of its for
eign correspondents and agents, the Bank
of England. of London. England. under
the terms of the Federal reserve act.
"Section 14 of the act permits any Fed
eral Restl-ve bank, with the consent of
the Federal Reserve Board, to open and
maintain banking accounts, In foreign
countries. appoint correspondents and
maintain agencies in such countries
wherever it ma) deem best for the pur
pose of purchasing, selling and collect
Ing bills of exchange."
OES TO WHITE HOUSE
ON OWN "INSPIRATION"
Max Vieweger. Socialist. Gets Chily
Reception on Christmas Day.
Max Vlewege, who said he was a Ger.
man Socialist, made a special trip from
New York to Washington yesterday per
sonally to wish President Wilson a merry
Christmas, so he became very Indignant
when Chief Usher J. H. Hoover refused
to admit him to the White House.
"I received a special inspiration while
in New York this morning," the man
said. "and immediately boarded a train
for Washington. I am supposed to wish
the President the season's greetings and
make a speech to the children who are
at the White House today. I came dI
rectly here. just stopping long enough
on the way to get a bowl of soup. And
say, the high cost of living is getting
to be something fierce! There was hard
ly enough of that soup to wet the bot
tom of the bowl."
Usher Hoover tried to reason with the
man. The caller was neatly dressed and
well educated. He said he Is a trans
lator.
"I suppose you think I am crasy," he
ventured. "but I am not." He was very
perAstent and talkative.
Vieweger told the offlcers. who gath
ered around. he was a Socialist and al
ways voted the Socialist ticket. He was
asked to go his way, but hotly replied
that the only way they could get him
away was to take him away.
"All right," said Hoover, "We'l cali
the wagon."
The patrol wagon from the Fourth Pre
cinct was called and the man was taken
to the Washington Asylum for observe
tion.
GIVE GIRL $20; KTllS HER.
Pittsburgh, Pa., Dec. 5.-After wishIng
his relatives "a Merry Christmas and a
Happy New Year" in a letter, found lat
er in his possession, Harry Brumer, 37
of Kittanning, went to the boarding
house of his sweetheart, Miss Beatrice
St. Clair, 26, on East Lacock street. this
morning and after giving her $30 as a
Christmas present shot her dead when
she refused to marry him.
Police Commissioner P. P. Walsh ar
rested Brumer. who is being held to!
await the action of the coron r. Brumer
told Commissioner Walsh th3 he intend
ed to end his own life, but, after firing
the three shots, discovered that the re
volver was empty.
TO CETRERATE 102D BIRTHDAy.
New York. Dec. 5.-Born in Baden.
Germany. December 28, 1814, John Ernest
Bach is looking forward with eager In
terest to the observance Thursday of his
102d birthday at the home of his grand
daughter, with whom he lives, at S
Mapes avenue, Newark. There is to be a
birthday party with a goodly representa
tion of the ancIent's descendants-fie
children, thIrty grandchildren, seventy
four great grandchildren and one great.
great grandchild--present.
'DIE DAY IUS2PAND IS BURIED.
Red Bank. N. J., Dec. 25.--Mrs. Mary
Emeline Shutts dIed at her home here
at 1.2:30 this afternoon, just an hour and
a half before the funeral of her husband,
Jacob C. Shutta, auctioneer and road su
pervisor. Both were seventynyears old.
Mrs. Shutts was critically ill from pneu
monia when her husband died, and news
of his death was kept from he,'. Mrs
Shuatt* was a native of Long Branch and
was Mr. Shutts' second wife.
Advanced to Priesthood.
New York, Dec. 5.--Rev. John, Gregory
Malay was advanced to the priesthood
In Calvary Episcopal Church by Bishop
Edwie~ 5. Ljnes, of Newark, Bishop Lines
acted for Bishop Julius W. Atwood, of
Arisona, to which dIocese Mr. Mabry be-.
(aha, Uweeiian, Savnah Aegaa.
Atlantic Coast Line Railroad, S
tran daily 14M6 New Yrk awe. my
CAPITAL ENJOYS
MERRY YULETIDE
General Festal Spirit Mark
Holiday, with Poor Gen
erously Remembered.
Christmas Is over, and judging from
the way It was celebrated it was a roe
Christmas. People will have a hard tim
getting back to normal again and thi
morning many Nill be wondering whethei
they would like to have such a big bolb
day every day or whether they are satte
Ied that It comes but once every twelV
months.
Santa Claus missed no one on his an
nual vialt. Rich and poor alike share
In the enjoyment o, the day. The latte
wer especially fortunate and it Is doubt
ful whether they were ever before re
membered so generously.
Christmas is primarily a festive day
and it was all of that yesterday. Th
gay spirit was evident everywhere trom
early morning uatil late at night. Thou
aends of people either entertained al
home, went to the theaters or othei
places of amusement or found some othei
festal activity. There was not a dul
moment during the day and every persor
Seemed happy.
Perha~s the greatest source of this hap
piness was in giving the poor of thi
city Shristmas cheer. Through charita
ble organizations gifts, food and necee
alties were distributed to thousands. Hos
pitals and institutions of all description
were ablaze with the Yuletide spirit be
cause of the thoughtfulness of those whc
have Christmas every day of the year a
far as wants and luxuries are concerned
The Gospel Mission. Central Union Mis
sion and the SalvdtionArmy brought
CoNTfNUED ON PAGE SII.
NEW CLUE IS FOUND
IN PEACE NEWS LEAR
Fresh Evidence Develops in Probe
Started by Representative Wood.
A new line of Investigation was opened
up yesterday into the reported leakage of
information concerning President Wit
*on's recent peace note.
Information reaching Representadva
William R. Wood. of Indiana, author of
the resolution calling for Congressional
probe of rumors that advance lnforma
tim had been secured by New Terh
brokers and that government officialI
were involved, gave him a new 'lead"
which he spent a part of Christma. Day
following.
The latest official whose name ham
been drawn into the "scandal" in said to
have had access to copies of the noti
several days before it was formally made
public. This time talliep. with the dis
patch of a letter to a New York broker.
age firm, which is known to have had
advance information that such a note
was about to be issued by the Whits
House.
Representative Wood commented yes
terday on the statement of Thomas W.
Lawson. who Is reported to have made
a fortune In the stock market break
which immediately preceded official pub
lication of the note. that he had advance
information of the White House plans,
and that "another and bigger leak"
would come next week.
"The man brags that he was aware
through underground channels of the
government's plans." said Mr. Wood.
"That In itself ought to be sufficient to
cause an investigation such as is pro
vided for in my resolution."
Plans to press the resolution are being
Irafted by the Indiana Representative.
"If the committee fails to report the
resolution." he said today, "I can force
it out after seven legislative days. Inm
ready to smoke them out."
WAR LOSSES TO DATE
TOTAL 15,500,00 MEN
Russia's "Wastage" Alone Amounts to
8.500,000 of Her Soldiers.
By WILLIAM BAYARD HALE.
(By the Internatieal News Serviee.I
Berlin, via Sayville, Dec. 25.-A day or
two ago I submitted some data based
upon estimates given to me by a high
military authority here.
Today I am permitted to amplify this
death roll. It makes sad Christmas read
Ing, but the American public cannot be
too often reminded of the fact that over
here on a dozen battle grounds men are
murdering one another day and night
without respite sufficient to bury the
lead or harbor the wounded.
For 125 weeks now this juggernaut
bas been rolling over central and south
ern Europe belching forth grenades,
shrapnels. shells. gas bombs and liquid
fire, setting up in luxury the manufac
turers of these fiendish devices which
are leaving a shameful wake.
Military statisticians here concede that
the losses up to date' are fifteen and a
half millions.
Russian has given up 8,500.000, France
1,000,000, England 1.500,000, Turkey 800.000,
!Serbia 500,000, Rumania 400,000, and Bel
rium 200,000.
The German losses on the Sommie alone
In six months have been but a tridle un
ier 400,000. Let the reader apportion the
loases on the other fronts and add those
f Austria-Hungary, Bulgaria and Tur
sey, and It is reasonable to set down
1,000,000 as the aggregate total war toll of
lead, wounded and mnissing up to this
3hristmas day.
HOLD OGII AS THIEVES.
New York, Dec. IL-Two girlS, each 11
rears old, who are said to have been
ound pacing up the Christmas presents
n the home of Frank O'Neill, No. 25
!'hirteenth street, Brooklyn, will be ar
-aigned in the Children's Ceurt in Brook
yu today,
The gave their namees a y Mul
ahey and Ida Iloweky, both et Brooklyn.
)n their way to church aehe qi the girls.
t Is alleged, suggasted tha ey$ ente
wa~Nui a. -as h-- -s h
Wage Ear,*.r N&1
For Right to Live
Developments yesterday in the
mbOvumm.for increased alaris for
govsement clerk.: -
1-Paddral Union onfints play
fant Claus to destitute govern
ment employes.
7--Norfolk Federal employee ar
rve to aid In fight for better wages.
3-Statistics being prepared at
Union headquarters to help higher
Ii pay moveennt for peorly paid P.95
terl emsployee. .
4-District employes coaftent their
request for 6 and 10 per Cent raise
will be granted by Senate.
5-Labor omcial belleve compro
msle Will be effected in Senate.
PARTY' GAINS AID
Four More Patronesses for
Belasco Fete.
Interest in the party to be given for
the Poor children, of Washington Thurs
day morning by The Washington Herald.
the n*agement of the Belasco Theater
and William Fox, Inc.. continues to grow.
The entertainment to be provided, begin
ning at 10 O'clock, in the Annette Kel
lermann flm, "A Daughter of the GodL"
Compilation of the list of guesta Is in
the hands of the Associated Charitiee,
which Is aiding in every way to make the
Party a success.
All the guests will be children who. ex
cept for this opportunity, would have no
chance to attend a holiday entertainment.
Four More Patronesses.
The names of Mrs. Carl Vroommn, wife
of the Assistant Secretary of Agricul
ture; Mrs. Ernest Knaebel. wife of the As
sistant Attorney General; Mrs. Louis
lirownlow, and Mrs. Cato Sells, have been
added to the list of patroneses. which
already included Mrs. Thomas Watt Gre
gory, Mrs. Josephun Daniels. Miss Ag
nes Hart Wilson. Mrs. Philander Claxton.
Mrs. Cuno H. Rudolph, Mrs. Frederick
Siddons, Mrs. Beth Shepard, and Mrs.
Wesley Martin Stoner.
In a beautiful play of a few years ago.
* a charming and distinguished actress was
celled upon to say: "You do believe In
fairies, don't you'" And entire audiences
responded. "Yes." without shame or
bashfulness.
A Daughter of the Gods'' is fantasy
without apology. Every mother will wish
her sons and daughters to see this pic
ture. Every friend of children will wish
to bring them to see It.
For In this picture the wonders of Alad
din and his magic lamp are outrivaled.
No Caliph or potentate of a Permion king
dom could kaea duplicatem tIl etees of
this picture.
With Queen of Firlies.
Children may take the Queen of the
Fairies by the hand and journey into
Gnome or Elfland to play and splash with
the Uttle People. They will see the
smoky mysteries of a witch's cavern.
with th" Witch 'of Badness and her
bro-mstick riders at their norceries. They
will see the wave of a fairy wand drive
*f the Spirit of Evil. Beautiful mer
maids, half girl and half fleti, will play
for them on pink coral ledges under
opaline rkies and call their staters from
the far horizon on the edge of the world.
Joyous sprites dance in the light of tropi
al -moonbeame silhouetted against the
Caribbean night.
Beautiful girls dance and play with
their pheasants, pigeons and kittens in
the palace of the Sultan. Hundreds of
dwarfs. mounted on donkeys, rush Into
hattle and are transformed by the Fairy
Queen into gigantic warriors clad In suits
of armor.
Scenes there are to make the eyes
sparkle and the breath come faster
scenes of joy, of beauty, of happIness and
kindliness.
| Telegraph Tips |
Melbourne Dec. K-The interest rate
on the new Australian war loan of 3M0.
00Cf000 will be 4% per cent. The loan will
fall due in 1915t The daylight savings
plan will go into operation In Australia
on January 1.
Paris, Dec. 25-The creation of the sum
of $15.00,000 of new resources to meet the
expenses of the city of Paris resulting
from the war was proposed in the budget
report of the municipality yesterday.
New York, Dec. 25.-Episcopal church
membership shows a growth of 27,285,
according to figures made public yester
day. This represents 2% per cent for the
last year, and slightly exceeds the in
crease in population.
Tulsa, Okla., Dec. K-Albert T. Patrick.
wealthy oil man, who was sentenced
three times to die in Sing Sing prison or.
a murder charge, announced here today
his engagement to Miss Mildred West,
daughter of a Tulsa oil operator. They
will be married in June.
liw York, Dec. 3.-The threatened
Christmas strike of restaurant cooks and
waiters has been postponed. It is pro
posed for New Year's, according to Fran
eoic Bizet, president of the Enterprise
Federation of Culinary and Alimentary
Syndicates.
New York, Dec. 25.-William Schacht,
an attorney, was handed a 3500 Christmas
box by a jury before Supreme Court Jus
tice Delehanty for being arrested by an
officer of the New York Consolidatec
Railroad Company. The company must
make the- attorney a present of the
money.
Exeter, N. H., Dec. 25.-The Exeter Cot
tage Hospital today received a Cheek for
$5.000 from No. 17 Battery place, New
York, to lA added to the Mrs. Thomas C.
Folsom fund, which now amounts to
$1,00 he giver withholds hic identity.
Ottawa, Dec. S.-tpresentativec of or
ganised labor, who have protested against
the Canadian national service plan, have
received from Director Bennet~ of the
National Service, a reply stating the pro
pogd census of Canadian manhood power
has nothing to do with''conccrlption for
the army.
Winsted, Conn., Dec. 25-Thomnac War
ren while out for a fox had a peculiar
experience, His bound 'barked in" a
pond and Warren thought the dog had
a for trapped in a stone wall. Upon In
veetigation, however, he bould an eel
that weIbd two ema a half mame.
U.S. EMPLOYES I
GET XMAS HELP
Co-workers See to It Under
paid Workers Have-Holi
day Cheer.
Christmas 1916 was made marry for
many government and District employs
who are working for salaries las than
P1,0 a year in the knowledge that Con
gres is preparing to grant them a sub
stantial Increase In eompention.
Presi4ent H. M. McIariv, of the Fed
eral anploye' Union, and other labor
union offlolale who are working for a
general increase for all government and
District employes. played Santa Claus
yesterday.
The union hase been aoaomutang In
stances of employes who" salarles were
so small that they would not permit of
any enjoyment on Christmas.
In many cases thee employes heeltated
to accept charity because they were
working, but their real condition was
called to the attention of union officials
by friends.
Early yesterday automobiles started out
loaded with Christmas dinners. presents
and toys, with the result that Christmas
1916 was made a merrier and a happier
one for thirty-seven families. The money
for this relief was furnished by clerks
and employes in departments who were
familiar with the conditions under which:
many of the subordinate einployes were
living.
And- in every case it was pointed out.
that the gifts were not offered in that
name of charity but for the purpose of
spreading the holiday spirit by fellow,
employes who were enjoying It to a
greater degree.
A delegation of Federal employes from
CONTINECKD ON PAGE X.M
LEAiUE MAY REVEAL
SECRETS OF ELECTION
Will Supplement Efforts of Congress to
Obtain Corrupt Practices Act.
With a view to supplementing the ef-i
forts of Congress to frame a stringent
and at the same time efricacious corrupt
practices act, a special session of the Na
tional Popular Government League has
been called for a cohference here on
January 5 and 6. Leaders from a dozen
States are expected to attend.
In view of the fact that opposition not
heretofore suspected has developed with
regard to the masswre, it is asserted by
members of the leegue In Washington
that some startling disclosures regarding
recent election expenditures--some esti
mates place them as high as E,000.000
are possible.
In the course of the conference, Judge
R. M. Wanamaker, of the Ohio Supreme
Court, will address it on the so-called
Gateway amendment, providing a simpler
method for the amendment of the Fed
eral Constitution. Prof. L. Jerome John
son, of Harvard. will discuss the pref
erential ballot; Carrie Chapman Catt.
president of the National American Wom
an Suffrage Association. will describe
woman's part in recent efforts at politi
cal housecleaning," and Senator Poindex
ter. of Washington, will advance some
new Ideas regarding the uses of the ref
erendum in his home State.
CONGRESS NEW YEAR
QUIET LIKE SHILOH
Factional Fights Over Speakership and
Senate Seniority Loom Up.
Political observers yesterday foresaw
some interesting politics in both Houses
In the Sixty-fifth Congress. Some House
Republicans are in revolt against James
R. Mann's leadership. Representative A.
P. Gardner, of Massachusetts, assumes
to lead this movement.
Progressive Republicans are fighting
the Old Guard in the Senate and the
Senate Democrats are widely split over a
successor to John W. Kern.
The election over, Republicans and
Democrats have cast aside party har
mony and apportioned the next two
years to the payment of old scores within
their respective parties. Itere is the
way the three "isms" line up:
Representative "Gussie" Gardner, of
Massachusetts, Roosevelt supporter in
the last preconvention primary, is after
the scalp of Mr. Mann. whom he accuses
of being "pro-German." Progressive-Re
publipan Representatives, including Me
dill McCormick, of Illinois, are expected
to join the Gardner faction.
Progressive-Republican Senators have
dug up the hatchet and renewed their
old feud with the Old Guard. In the
next Congress they will have Hiram
Jbhnson, Senator-elect from California,
as an ally and war exceeding in fury the
1913 days is anticipated.
The South and the West, which re
elected the President. have already
broken with each other in the Senate and
are engaged ina bitter row over tuig elec
tion of a successor to Senator Xern,
whose term expires March 4.
The Southern Democrats want Senator
Martin, of Virginia, and the West Is sup
porting Senator Walsh, of Montana. He
managed the Democratic campaign in the
West. One-fly in Senator Walsh's oint-.
ment is William Jennings Bryan. Sena
tor Walsh is uinstinted in his praise of.
Mr. Bryan now, but the Nebraskan has
a long memory.
SMOKE LESS, REAn LES;, TOO.
Boston, Dec. E.--(A decline in the minor
vices that beset college men is indicated
at Harvard by the annual figures given
by the Harvard Union. In the past year
Harvard students have smoked fewer
cigarettes and cigar. and have played
billiards and pool -less than they did a
year ago.
There was a lose of about 20 per cent
In the sale of cigarette. and cigars. Har
vard students spent 3,00 for tobacco in
1915 and only $2.UiT in 1mg.
For billiards and pool, $1,35 was spent
In 1915 and $1,232 in 191t
Curiously enough, the reading habits of
Harnard men slumped this year. In 315
112 wsspent $m im mg~ ; In
Jeh D. Plays Samt
To Telpbme Gik
(My IateumiN. ges g1 amgs)
Tokers, N. Y., Dec. U.-Jobn D.
fAtckefefler and Mrs. Ftiley shop
hard played OSata Claus to the
local station telegraph and tel*
phone employee today.
To all they a a15 gold pieces.
Mr. Rockefeller sent with his gifts
an1 engraved card reading:
"With all good thoughts and sin
ce& wishes for a Merry Christ
ma."
Mrs. Shephard enclosed her gifts
in white enameled boxes. She also
remembered the station employes
and telephone girls at Irvington.
VILLA WINS AGAIN
Defeats Carranza Force in Co
ahuila-Situation Acute.
(my the Intereatesmal New. servies.
El Pao. Tex., Dec. 5 -Villa troops de
feated a large force of Carransistas neat
San Pedro in Coahuila, according to re,
porta..received here today by the militar3
authorities and by mining men. The
Carranza army had been dispatched frorr
Monterey to aid the troops at Torreor
under attack by the bandit army.
Villa received word of the advance o1
the relief- force and sent out an army t<
intercept and flank the Monterey troops.
The battle was sharp and decisive and
the defeat of the Carranzistas was over
whelming. Further confirmation of the
latest of Villa's victories came tonight it
reports to Gen. Funston's secret agents.
Confirmation of recent Vilista successe
in Southern Chihuahua coupled with un
officlal information regarding furthei
successful activities on the part of the
bandit leader in the Sta.a of Coahuila
have served to render more acute the
Mexican situation as viewed from Wash
ington ,at night.
It is broadly hinted here by officials ol
the goaernment that a continuation ol
the victories by Francisco Villa may
within a few days, result in the with,
drawal of recognition of the government
of First Chief Venustiano Carransa at
the de facto government in Mexico.
To withdraw recognition of the Car
ranzista government would carry no obli
gation to, recognize VUla or any of hi
following. but would he an indicatiosit
Mexico that its status as an organize<
government had again been "educed tA
that exiating when the forces of-the so
called conventionist government undo
Villa, and the constitutionaalists holding
allegiance to the First Chief, were bat
Ltng for supremacy throughout th4
northwestern sections of the republic.
BOMB FOUJND BESIDE
UTAH iOVERNOR'S HOMI
L. W. W. Suspected of Attempt t<
Avenge Joe Hillstrom's Death.
(ly the %Iernatiemmi %ew aervice.
Salt lake City. le, 2.-A hsmbs tha
would have bloan the hou,- to atoms
Was fourd at the corn-r of Ov Willian
Spry's residence this morning.
The temperature was not low enougl
to cause an exnsls-ion.
The plot is helIieved to have been th,
work of I. W. W:'s. who have repeatedl:
threatened. andi it is charged. tri-d 1I
wreak vengeance on the goverror for hi
refusal to prevent the sxecution cf Ja
Hillstrom.
Gov. Spry had l.ean attending the co%
ernor's cor eren(ce lin Washington an<
aas due home vesterd;y afternoon.
On account of the enowstorms, however
hle did not arrive until today.
COMXUTER AND BUNDLE WIN.
New York, Dec. 25.-William A. Schacht
lawyer. has won a victory over the Nov
York Consolidated Railroad and th<
Drooklyn Rapid Transit Compary. whelc
should prove of areat encouragement t
he commuter who carries hundles.
Schacht obtained a verdct for St
igainst the two iway companies inr
suit for 5.vAn dlagea for false arresi
3n May 29. 1915. the lawyer bought sorm
screens for his home. When he reache,
the Essex street station of the Manhat
'an Bridge line. passage was refused
uim at the turnstile. HWs Insistence thal
ie be permitted to ride resulted in hi.
irrest.
CUT MAN'S THROAT IN MET.
Philadelphia, Dec. 25.-An attempt.
loke turned out serious:y for William Mc.
7arthy. 36 years old. last night, when h,
received a five-inch cut in his throat
Facob Fritz, 44 years old, of 3 Fas
rhompson street. is held to await the re
suIt of his Injury.
Shortly before 6 o'clock last night Frit
look a large bread knife and started t<
-ut some bread. In a spirit of Play h4
says, he drew the knife across Mc<'arthy's
ihroAt, believing that he had the dul
-dge turned toward the flesh, It proves
o be the sharp edge of the knife, how
ever. and McCarthy fell to the floor witi
wound.
SHE HAD EIGHT WRIST BAGS.
New York. Dec. 25.-Charged with the
heft of articles valued' at 350 froma
tixth avenue detartment store, a womar
who described herself as Mary Pauberg
18. of Bayonne. N. J.. pleaded gtuilty yes
erday in Jefferson Market Court befor
kiagistrate Cobb. and was held in Sit
>ail for trial.
The woman waa arrested late Saturdai
>utside the store and when sarche
'ight wrist bags, four wallets, two cigal
-aaes, a cigarette case and a fan wen
ound on her person.
YALE MAZ TO PAY ALIMONY.
Greenwich. Connt.. Dec. 5.-Ten dollar
aweek alimony ha. been awarded to Jes
sie Shepard Husted. fornnerly a Ntew Ha
ren manIcurist, while proceedings for di,
force, brought against her by Mills H
lusted, a wealthy Tale lais.-tudent. an
tending in the Superior Court. Codunse:
ea to the amount of $1U have also bees
hetwed her.
The actien wMi esmq to trial l
medh. et t amsm.
SWEDEN TO BACK
NOTE TOPOWER
Norway, Too, Beieved Ready
to Follow Lad of Swit -
land in Peace Demand.
ACT NIGHT CLOUD ESUE
Feared that Swedish Pro-Teuton Sysm
pathies May Arouse Dangerous
Suspicions of Entente.
Washington last night prepared for
a general chorus of indorsement by
the neutral nations of the world of
President Wilson's move toward
peace in' Europe.
The nature and form of the Swiss
note, pledging support to the Presi
dent's peace policy, was accepted as
practically guaranteeing prompt ac
tion by the other neutrals. Washing
ton diplomats declared that the
Scandinavian nations could be ex
pected to fall into line behind the
President's proposals, and it was
stated authoritatively last night that
Sweden would probably forward a
general indorsement following close
ly the form of the Swiss note within
a few days.
Unofficial advices from Berne. Switser
land, stated flatly that the Swiss federal
rouncil Understood before dispatching
their note that a .imilar comruun ration
to the belligerent powers would be forth
coming from Sweden at on-e. Diplo
satic circles here declared last night
that the report was we!! worthy of
credence and that the diplonatic situ&
tion was shaping tself in the direction
of a general lindorsement of the Presi
dent's demand on the blligerette, with
out los of time.
Think Swenem Will laIdase.
W. A F Ekengren. the Swedish Si:ni'
ter. said that while he had not been -Oh
clally notfied b his government that a
p.ace note Mals on1 its uar o: in the
course of preparation. he te:7 eiifident
that Sneden would indorse the 'resi
dent's stand Sweden for more than a
year has been active in her efforts to xe
cure some concert of action among <ie
neutrals in their dealings with the belli,:
t rents.
Nhtruster Ekenaren "etr tiue 9-o
sought to ser re the --;-ermtr, of the
n'ted States in a tea- proitram to ue
fo llwed by neutral nations. but Presi
dent Wilson drc:Ined I. nter any ".r
tanging alliances" at that time. VInce
the German peace protposals were for -
warded to the entente pow, rs. Sweden.
where the Centirent Ir nrwrallt-l po
German. ha' been more than evtr anx
ious for peace nereiatiens.
An oveT, nthusatle indersremeTt of the
President's prot l I y Si''.-. at I ls
time adn'inistrti,,n ,Yfi iat, 1ad. tonight.
a i t prve etmarra ng her than
he ipfu!. The a- 'et d p - . t ..
-ncies in ited. t aas stits-i iash;
servc to f rther i-otate I d ii -
ties whi h Pr. sidInt W:tson' Prop-osa
confronts in the enteite nati ns. be-ase
it was foirwarded -o c>'s on the heels
of the Criman Iace Lidanes
Wants Other "Upport First.
For this reason, there was a fecling
that the cuss of u timate peace. might
be better served. if other neutral nations.
not so ci-,-v identified with the war
zone. came forward to the support of thi
President before Vweden s note was sent
Whether any 'general understanding
among the neitrals of the at-id as to
the tim" of forwarding their notes ap
prov ti the Presidentb course has been
arrat-ei. eoold not he dcetrmitt'd her"
last night. Such an understanding. if it
- exists. wil: prohahl dela% Sweden's com
munication until some Of the other neu
trala have stated their views
Washincton wil watch with d. P in
terest the course to he taken 1, Nt-ar as.
Once the beginning of the war. Norwsiy
has ta-n at odd, with the Teatonie lon
ers. She has suffered h- avcls fron sub
marine warfare, and her e' mpathiles ha"e
be-n largely- with th' 'ite- allies. At,
indorsement of the Pr-si.-n-t's plan hy
Norway would go far toward making
clear that the P','-d-tt's Pea-e mo. is
one I all the neutrals. and Is in no way
connected with the German peace pro
posals.
Four More Neutrals
Will Back President
Berlin (vin Sayn-- I'- -All of
the three Senndinavian 'ootries and 1HotI
land are aboutt to fall in l ive ith the
tnited States in the -ffort to hing the
helligerents to' thr at -, ;eace confer
srce. aceording to reports r-eived to
d-IN from sario.s airr-es
The Berner Tacg-hlatl says there is a
rumor that the, he t-andima inn gov
ernmerts will immediately h d a con
ference to liscus" was and m,-ans for
furthering the peace agitation and pre
vailing utor: the w:irrim: powers to state
Their respective ionditions
The Neueve- Zurie:. r Ziltung reports
from The iagu'- that tlliand will prob
ably issue a rot.- similar to that se-nt by
H olland.
Germany Will Swap
Terms with Euteate
Amsterdam. Dec. 25.-"1f the allies age
willing to 'tate their terms of peace, we
are ready to state ours.
"The manner of communicating tem- te
of econidarv consideration. We will ge
more than half way to bring about am
exchanot. But an exchange it must be,
simultaneous and in good faith.
"In no eircumstanoe nill we lay out
cards open on the table unlems the en
tente show't Its hand at then same time."
Couched in the friendliest language a
the disposal of diplomacy, that in sub
stance n-ill be the central power's an
swer to President Wilson's note, accord
inS to confldential advkcea from Blerlin.
Alfred Zimmermann. Germnanys new
secretary of foreign affairs, laat amikt
had dinnter with Emperor William. It is
understood that on this occastes, the
Kaiser gave the pilot of his empire's for
eign poliees a clear outline of what
should be the repiy to President Wilasa's
"get-together message."
I/That reply. however, will not be Ger
many's alone. It will be the aser of
all the eentral powers, thmm the ra....
