ii&iiiiteitim.
0
'FINANCIAL EDITION
NIGHT
EXTRA
. lSTR47w
titfrong
NIGHT
EXTJRA
v- -VL'Jvi
' M K'
v -:
,' ?
,1 Mi
VOL: NO."
88
PHILADELPHIA. TUESDAY, DECEMBER 20, 1010
Cortuanr, 101(1, it tit Fceue Iimii Cohmmt.
PRICE ONE CENT
wdner
It
V V
, C
BERLIN PROPOSES PEACE
CONFERENCE AT ONCE
GERMANS TAKE
5500 RUSSIANS
Capture Strongly Fortified
Village of Filipeati,
in Rumania
BATTLE IN WALLA CHI A
nnnu.v, Dec it.
The capture of BC00 Russian prisoners
In the Ituinnnlnn theatre of war pi an
nounced by the German War Office today
The strongly defended numanlan village
of Fillpesll, on the Buzeu-Ilralla riallroad,
has been captured by atorm by Atistro
Oerman troops.
Positions on both skies of Klllpestl, de
fended by nusslan troops, were taken nt the
point of the bayonet.
All of Dobrudja la now In possession of
the Oman Allies, according to dispatches
from ths Rumanian front today.
German guns are pounding the bridge
head positions of tho ltusslann nil nlong ths
lower Danube.
Military critics believe that the way will
toon be opened for n drive Into Ilcssarabla
If Field Marshal von Mackensen has such
an enterprise In contemplation.
nusslan troops holding the line In Wal
lachla have Attempted to open n counter
offensive to lessen tho pressure of tho Ilul
garlan, German and Turkish troopi along
the. Danube. Tho engagements which have
det cloned are still In progress.
South of the Moldavian frontier the Ger
man Allies ore engaged with tho Russians
around Itlmnlk. Further east tho Austro
Germans nre driving ahead with the double
view of encircling Brnlla and cutting the
Calati-Tckutchlu railroads.
Russian raiding, detachments failed to
advance In the Ncagra Valley, south of
Dorna Vatra, Iho official statement said
detaUIng the fighting In tho Carpathians.
Temporary Increase In tho strength of
artillery flro on I.udova was reported.
nusslan artillery has become very ac
tive In Volhynla, the War Office announced.
The Russians are believed to be prepar
ing to renew their Infantry assaults In
that sector of tho eastern front. A Ger
man enterprise near Lutsk was successful.
SOLDIERS HOPE TO BE
HOME NEXT CHRISTMAS
By HENRY WOOD
WITH THIS xnUN'CII ARMIES Iff
AL8ACK I.ORHAINU. Dec. 25 (via Ilelfort
and Paris). France's soldiers celebrated
Christmas with the absolute conviction they
will spend December 25, 1917, nt home.
They were all certain the victories along
the fiomme and at Verdun have established
such an ascendancy over the enemy that
Franco and her Allies will make "peace on
earth, good will toward men" a reality.
Kspeclally was the contlctlon of peace
within a ear. through Franco's victory,
strong In trench No. i. nt Ilelfort. There
tho soldiers spent their Christmas defending
flrst-llne positions.
"It's the men who are closest In fighting
contact with tho enemy who feel most
strongly that they hate attained a moral
and material superiority over the enemy
that makes a victory certain' explained
tho oMlcer commnndlng this trench. "All
my men during the day have been writing
home, expressing tho firmest assurance that
they will pass next Christmas at tnoir own
firesides."
It waa this conviction felt by eery
pollu that made every soldier rise to ex
etptlonal efforts to render today's celebra
tion memorable.
Hundreds of regimental Utter carriers
became veritable and heroic Santa Clauses.
They worked all Christmas Ke nnS Christ
mas Day, often at great risk, under heavy
hell fire, delivering to the flrst-llne trenches
all Christmas packages. Opening of these
parcels was the only celebration possible In
the flrst-llne trenches.
Dut In the rear the celebrations were
elaborate. There were Christmas tree ex
ercises nt all churches, where operatlo
singers, violinists and other musicians serv
ing In the army made up programs of en
tertainment. I attended one ot the celebrations In a
Protestant church where the audience was
made up of soldiers from the trenches,
children and villagers. There was an elab
orate program preceding distribution of
the Christmas presents, and then tho minis
ter, wearing rough field leggings and the
uniform of an army chaplain, preached a.
sermon
It was a discourse declaring that not only
civilisation, but even Christianity Itself was
t stake In the present conflict
'The new Christian duty," ha declared,
"U that of choosing and fighting for the
nations whose civilization and whose Ideals
render the carrying out of the Christian life
possible, and of choosing and fighting
aralnst those whose acts show they would
not permit attainment of Christ's Ideals,'
NO CHRISTMAS TRUCE
ON BRITISH FRONT
By WILLIAM PHILIP SIMMS .
WITH TUB BRITISH ARMIB3 IK
FRANCE. DecJ!t ,
So far as fighting Is concerned, Christ
mas, 191t, waa Just December 35 to Brit,
ain't, warriors, Christmas Eve In no wise
differed from the preceding night. The
CeaUnotd ea Pate Tea. Ccluma 1e
THE WEATHER
FQRE0A.8T
For Philadelphia and vicinity Jnerea
tog cloudiness tonight, oKoiJ bu woxa
w the eorlu morning and on Vi'ednftday;
tmet tonight qoout ti degrw, warmer
Wednesday; increasing easterly vrtnd.
LKNCTII Of DAY
jua rises 731 a.m. I Maoa rls ?"
UKI.AW.iRE UIVKK TIDB IA"flJ
CHKSTNUr bTKKKT
Mlsh water 3.23 a.m. I HlsH water. i,.E-
MlH V-Wam.lJ.ovr water .JOiWuBL
rrr 10 inmi i j 3; i
ai arr &i arrarferfo 1 IT.
Photo tor Oulekunit
CHARLES S. WALTON
CHARLES S., WALTON,
FRIEND OF POOR, DIES
Leather Company President
Stricken Suddenly in Midst of
Family at St. Davids
FRIEND OF ALL CHILDREN
' Following n Chrtstmns reunion with his
family. Charlea S. Walton, president of tho
leather Arm of England, Walton A Co., one
of tho most widely known business men of
Philadelphia, died today nt Walmarthon, his
palatial home nt St. Davids. Ills death la
felt keenly, not only bV his relatives and
business associates, but also by the hun
dreds of poor throughout tho olty, whose
Jives ho had brightened hyjrnnny good deeds,
tie was fifty-four yean old.
With his wife and several members of the
family Mr. Wilton was having a very happy
time at the) Christmas fireside, when he
was suddenly stricken III shortly before
midnight.
As he previously suffered from heart trou
ble, members of the family quickly sum
moned Dr. Walter Chrystle, of IJryn Mnwr.
and Dr. Hobart A. Hare. Although the
physlclnns did all In their power to save
him, Mr. Walton died shortly after 1 o'clock.
Ilia wife, his sons, Thomns K. Walton.
Charles S Walton, Jr.. Joseph M. Walton,
and Mrs. William A. Weldershelm, n daugh
ter, with whom Mr. Walton had been Joking
and laughing before he was stricken, were
nt his bedside at the end.
News of his death quickly spread over
the surrounding countryside, and the Christ
mas cheer In many homes was quickly
turned to sorrow. Messages of condolence,
from rich and poor alike, came to the house
throughout the day.
Despite the fact that his various Interests
made him one of the busiest men In the
city, Mr. Walton managed to find tlmo to
spread sunshine among thoso less fortunate.
Every Bummer the lake on his magnificent
estate was turned Into a bathing pool for
the poor. Tired mothers and fathers with
their little ones there found relief from the
oppressive heal. Bathing houses were
erected that 'the welcome guesta may have
every comfort, and a wading pool was con.
atructcd for the little ones. Mr. Walton
also furnished a caretaker, who acted oa
Csntlnunl on Pais Two, returns Tw
CROSSING GUARD GONE,
ENGINE KILLS FRIENDS
Train Hits Girl, Brother nnd
Finnco Returning From
Christmas Party
A woman and two men were killed yes
terday at the Ford street crowing of the
neodlng milww I" Norrlstewn. They are
.Nlcbell Romano "d his sister. Victoria,
and her fiance." Uno Cltrl. tJI ot whom
were returning In "" froro ,h" hom
of ft friend wth whom they had spent
Christmas.
Coroner MeCJ4ty. Investigating, has
. .,.! that there waa no watchman
at the crossing when the t'ragedy "e4.
The gateman. he ft" " ". " "
nost shortly before the three were wushed
beneath the whs of a pa-eager train.
The-foot trails fatur u N In
.... ..... .h,t the watan waa an Inltmat
friend ot h vtottjP lMto t.
day aa muen as tbftjemive
The horse l kllIL
.. -..m at whleh the agoUent bap.
,! h ba the We of majiy aaol-
Bents.
Captain IU, Crew Helpless
'jfaBFOIJB. Vs.. Dc 7.TB t
guard putter Yamacraw today U aeawM
.... naif Stream for the sehoooir aHrtpUW.
uoatea, wfee . wH t
REPLIES TO WILSON'S NOTE,
BUT FAILS TO NAME SPECIFIC
TERMS REQUESTED BY U. S.
Expresses Readiness to Cooperate In
Formation of League of Nations, ,'
But Says War Settlement ,
Must Come First
THE PRESIDENT'S PROPOSAL
A AND GERMANY'S ACCEPTANCE
President Wilson sujrRcstcd:
"An immediate opportunity for n comparison of views ns to terms which
must precede thoso ultlmntc arrangements for the penco of the world."
Tho German reply any:
"To tho Impcrinl Government nn Immcdintc oxchiuiRo of views seems tho
most npproprintc roml to reach the desired result. It, therefore, proposes im
mediately a mcotliiR of .dclcRatcs of the belligerent States nt some neutral
place." )
s .
Germany today proposed n mcctinir
answer to President Wilson's peace note.
Hc formal reply to tho American pcaco suggestion was made in n note
handed to United States Ambnssndor Gerard nt tlcrlin and at tho same time to
tho American diplomatic representatives nt tho cnpitnls of tho other Central
fowcrs Vienna, Sofia and Constantinople.
Tho note also hints thnt tho "pjroat work of tho prevention of future wars
can be begun only nftcr tho end of tho present strujn;lo of nations" nnd de
clares "when this moment shall havo come" Germany will bo "rendy with
pleasuro to collaborate entirely with tho United States nt this cxaltod task."
Tho German note holds tho "most npproprinto road to rench tho desired
result" is nn immediate meotinp; "of delegates of belligerent States at a neutral
place."
The text of tho note reads:
"Tho high-minded suggestion made by the President of tho United States
of America in ortlor to create a basis for the establishment of lasting peaco has
been received and considered by the Imperial Government In tho friendly spirit
which was expressed in tho President's communication.
"The President points out that which he has at heart nnd leaves open tho
choice of the road. ,
"To tho Imperial Government tho immediate oxchango of views seems tho
most appropriate road in order to reach tho desired result.
"It, therefore, begs, in the sense of its declaration made on December -12,
which offered its hand for pcaco negotiations, to propose Immedinto meeting of
dblcgatcs of tho belligerent States at o neutral place.
"Also tho Imperial Government is of tho opinion that tho great work of
prevention of future wars can bo begun only nftor the end of the present
struggle of nations.
"It will (namely, (ho tfernian Government will) when this moment shall
hnve como be ready with pleasure to collaborate entirely with tho United States
at this exalted task."
The answer closos with the usual terms of international politeness.'
Tho text, ns transmitted over Sayville wlreloss by tho official press bureau
in Berlin, docs not contain any pcaco terms. Whether this Ib tho cntlro text of
the noto was not matlo clear In tho wifeless dispatch.
BERLIN NAMES PEACE TERMS IN NOTE
TO POPE AND NEUTRALS, ROME HEARS
uoMK. Dec :e
Germany handed to the neutrnl nations
whoso services she asked In forwarding
peaco suggestions to her enemies, a sealed
packet containing tho specific terms upon
which she was willing to make peace, ac
cording to a rtP"rt In circulation here today.
The report had It that this packet was
sent with Instructions that It wna only to
ba read and forwarded to Germany's ene
mies of tho Kntenta In caso those Powers
answering Germany's proffers actually re
quested terms Otherwise It was to be re
turned unopened. .
Th .ir.i.. renort declared that In the case
of the note submitted to Pope Henedlct.
Germany permitted the Holy Father to read
this secret list of concessions and demands.
A
AUSTRIAN DESTROYERS
ROUTED BV THE ALLIES
Vienna, However, Reports Entente
Warcroft Were Hit During Fight
in Otranto Channel
ItOMK. Dee. SI Ai attempt by Aus
?rlan men-of-war to s.nk Italian patrol
ships In Otranto Channel on the night of
December 23 waa frustrated by French
and Italian warships. saa an Admiralty
statement made public today. After a
sharp engagement the Austrian sblpa fl id
Two Freneh destroyers and one patrol boat
wre hit and damaged badl). Otranto
Channel connects the Adrlatlo and Ionian
eas.
Los Angeles Has a Few KnowflaLeg
1,03 ANGHI.H8. Cal, 00. J. Slight
traeM of anew Here poted at Infrequent
Intervals hare today, but melted upon reach
Ipg the pavement. Snow yvea (he moun
tim sf southern California, especially
Mount WlkHin- t
THE FlttST PICTUItES
of the
"GERMAN VILLAGE,"
at League Island appear on the
PICTORIAL PAGE
OF TODAY'S
gueufitg&a&Vttgrr
UKRLIN', Dec. '20.
of delcRatct of bclllccrcnts in
her
No ofllclal comment uus obtainable here
today cither from the Vatican or tho court
aa to this report or as to tho ofdclal view
on the peace suggestions contained In Presi
dent Wilson's note. It was apparent, how
ever, that Italian ofllclaldoin Is puszled by
the American suggestion, considering there
Is some diplomatic secret behind It.
AJISTBItDAM, Dec. it.
Kmperor William Is expected today tn
tell the diplomatic envo)a of ths United
.States and 8wserland that Germany wilt
make known her terma of peace If Great
Ilrltaln shows any srInus disposition to
consider them
A dlspatoh from the German capital said
that the Kaiser would receive Jam W.
Gerard, the American Ambassador, and Dr.
t'aallnued on I'm Twa, Cutuain Three
LIVE STOCK PERISH
IN BURNING BARN
Horaea, Cows nnd Pigs Destroyed
With Other Contents Owner
Una Narrow Eacapo
Horses, oowa and other lite slot-k were
destroyed early tadsy In a lire which burned
down the large barn of Albert C. Stanger, on
the outskirts of Oloiwester City, .V. J, The
loa la estimated at f SIM. Jtangr' Jm-t
escaped being killed In The barn while try
ing to get out aomt oattle. The ftoer gae
way, Lut he Jumped to safety In Mine.
Fire horses, sis cous, a number of pigs
and eahes, layman J .farm Implements were
loot in the Are. The barn was burned to
the ground Stanger and Ida tavlfe were
alcme on the farm when the fire started
They were wakened by the glare from the
burning barn. Fife oompanlM trwn aou
eter City aud Had Jon Helghpt were sum
moned by neighbor, and those neurby ran
ta tft Stanger place
Stagger and neighbor sated two bo
and four oows before the floor and root
burned through and felt. It was k long
haupto the seen for tb fir sotspanle
and Jhe barn was nearly destroyed before
the arrived. Stanr was unable to say
what caused the or. An taveetlgatlon will
be nude.
PitUton Hotel and Homes Dura
SOUANTON. P-. Dc. Fir today
destroyed tin. I out of Aatbooy Srtutts 4
three reaWeocM a PltUtoA. It tost the
combined eKert oS the PJiutsn and West
mtUtoH 8rcu to St Uw btai uodet
soatroj. The ka I It ,.
QUICK
ANDREW FLETCHER HEADS AMERICAN LOCOMOTIVE
e
NEW YOHK, Dec, SO. Andrew Fetcher, n member ot the execu
tive committee of the American Locomotive Company, has brn
elected nraltltnt of tho company, to take effeet January 1, 1017. Mr,
Fletcher succetis W, II. Marshall, who recently resigned.
PLIGHT FROM ATLANTIC
"MEWl'OIlT NKWS, Vn., Dec.
0)4 Point Comfort nt neon today
ln boat. The trip wait mndo tn
Jackwlth Muffeted tutciiucly ftom
CITY IMAKES HUGE PAYMENT ON INTEREST AND IJONDS
City Treasurer McCoaeh todn uihl to tho Knrmers ami Mechanics' National
Hank, tho clt' ilscal nr,ent, :'.169.8S1.12 forslx montlia' Interest on outstanding
municipal boiuli nnd S1.733.S00. tho principal of bonds lnnturlnft December SI. 1916.
Tho sinking fund contributed J2.360.7Ct.35 nnd $1,057,800. Tho difference will bo
mado up iy direct cotinclltrmnlo appropriation. Tho sinking fund received $1,979,
030.S6, tho Inst quarterly Installment of the 1SI6 Council appropriation to the sink
ing fund.
lIUIUiLAlt GETS CASH AND GEMS LEFT BY SANTA
A burglar forced his way Into two houo where Santa Onus hod left Jewelry
nnd money in stockings buns by tho fireplace, removed tho articles and departed
unobserNeil. Ho flrot visited the home of Thomns Conly, of 870 North Twenty-second
street, whom ho forced orcn n sldo window nnd then atolo a gold algnct ring and
eight dollars In cash from revcrnl atocklugs. Knotting that Hnnta Clnua also
visited tho home of Howard .Mllllgnn. of S72 North Twenty second trcet, Just next
door, tho burglar followed In Ids wako ami stole $21.75 from Mocking. The theft
ttero reported tn tho police today.
COLEMAN TO CONTEST CONGRESS SEAT
rriTflnilltqil. Dec 20. Congressman William II. Coleman today served notice
In the Court ,of Common Plea thnt ho will contest tho election ot M. Clyde Kelly
to succeed him In tho Thirtieth District. Ho nllegcd trnud nnd petitioned for tho
Immodlato Impounding of nil ballot boxen pending congrcsMonnl action. The official
count gnvo Kelly, n, Democrat, a plurality of 244.
U. S. SENDS BRITISH ARABIA CHARGE TO BERLIN ,
WASHINGTON. Dec. 26. Although It had been plnnned to await tho nlorlca
of survivor, tho Ktato Department forwarded to Ilorlln tho llrltlsli Admiralty's
denial that the P. nnd O. liner Arabia, mink by n Clerman submnrlno without warn
ing, wn.s In tha Government ttorvlcc. It I undemtood tho data went without com
ment by tho United Stntott.
LUMINOUS HATS LATEST WAR- DEVICE IN LONDON
LONDON, Dec. 20. t.umlnouti ImU for men nnd women4 have boon' Introduced
In I.omton for wear In tho darkened Almoin nt night. It Is hoped In tbs way to
reduce street accidents, ot which tlicro woro 34,575 In tho first nluo months ot this
ear. Of thr-Jio 577 were fnta.1. Kotno.ntrcotn oro-kopt In total 'darkness nt nlfrlifto
cscapo the X.eppclln monncc, wbllo otliors nro dimly lighted. The liatn nro treated
with n chemical mlxturo to mnko them shluo In tho darkness.
AUSTRALIAN LOAN WILL BEAR 1 1-2 PER CENT INTEREST
LONDON, Dec. 2TA news nRcncy dispatch from Molbourno says that tho
Interest rate upon tho now $90,000,000 Australian war lonn will bo four nnd one-half
per cent. .Subscriptions will closo on Kobrunry 1, 1917. . t
SKATERS FLOCK TO PARK AND OTHER LAKES
Thcro is skating tndny on Hunting I'nrk Lake, Concourse nnd Oustlne Lakes In
rnlrmount I'nrlt nnd many of tha suburban lakes nnd ponds. In most of thn out
lylnK sections tho Ico has been thick enough for akntlni; n'most continuously for
tho last ten dns. Tho quarry pond of tho -Merlon Cricket Club on tho frolf course
!i attracting ninny, nnd tho Ico Is good on tho old Choatnut Hill I'nrlc pond near
Whltcmnrsh. Thn WoodMdo Tnrk pond has not o'ot been opened for tho winter.
THIEF RETURNS N$5000 GEMS AS CHRISTMAS GIFT
ALTOONA. I'a.. Dec. 28. -Five thousand dollars' north of diamonds ret In rings
and brooches, stolen from tho mansion of Patrick. AV. l'lnn ut Ant Hills November
10, were found done up In u llttlo box tied with red ribbon on tho doorknob of tho
Finn homo Chrlstmos morning when tho family returned from 'mass. While thcro
was soma ono In tho liouro all day, no one noticed n stranger 'ubout the premises
nml thn Identity of tho thief Is still a mytory. 1'our carpet olmnors, who wera
arrested charged with the theft, probably will be oxonerntod and the rase against
them dropped.
SCRANTON HIGH SCHOOL STUDENTS STRIKE FOR HOLIDAY
HCItANTO.V, Ph.. Oec. 26. llcoauso they ttero rcfuacd tho usual Christmas
holidays ttto thousand students of Central nnd Technical High richools struck
here today and rafusod to attend classes. The students marched en maaso to tha
local nuwspaper ofllcos and gave tho yells and then departed for their hemes, de
claring they would not attend classes until Monday.
BRAKEMAN'S HEAD CRUSHED PASSING UNDER BRIDGE
While riding on tho top of a freight cur. Klmor Jlatchener, twenty-three, year
old, of 2IJ0 Bnsl Norrls street, n Heading Hallway brakeman, was Instantly killed
when his head was struck by the framework of n bridge over tho tracks early to
day. The accident occurred near Frankford Junction. He was found on the top of
the car with the sldo of his hood crushed In.
BREAD FAMINE MENACE IN BUENOS AIRES
HUISNOH AlltKH. Dec. 36. Four of u broad famine Increased hero today when
tbera were addition to the rank of striking? baker. The situation,' as to settle
ment ot the strlko. remained unchanged today.
NEW INSANITY EVIDENCE IN WAITE CASE
NEW YORK, Dec. 26 That Dr. Arthur W. Wnlte. awaiting death at Hlng Slnff
for the murder of lit wealthy fathcr-ln-law, John K. Pock, of Orand Ilaplds, Mlph..
hud confessed to hlajirother, Frank Walte. that he hud secreted i Itottlo containing
poon In Frank Walte' home shorty before his arrest wus disclosed In a state
ment burned bore by the condemned man's brother. Frunk Walesasserted this evi
dence would be presented to tlfe Court of Appeals In un effort to uoUtln a new trial
for Doqjor AVaJle on the ground of insanity.
ROADS WORK TO RELIEVE FREIGHT CONGESTION
NBW YOIUC, Dec. 29- A committee, of railway ofllclala is tp establish an onice
In Detroit with a view tu eliminating the congestion there arising out of the cr
shortage situation, -It was announced by the American Hallway Association. Ship
ments to Detroit eorwlgners who in unable to unload Immediately will bo restricted,
8trlujiivt measures ate to be adopted aUo to reduce the accumulation of ears eke
where.
BRITISH DESTROYERS COLLIDE A3JJD SI1SIC; 55 LOST
LQSKBQUi X)m eV-Tfee Adiplralty annaumm thnt twa tfeajreyfrsj Were nnk in
a collision In the North Sea, an Dmfear 21 dHrllg verybad weather, Six oftleers
and forty-nine men were tb
GOVERNOR CANCELS
HAHltlHUUItO, Dee. Jfl. it we announeed for the Qevernor and Mrs. Hrtinv
bau.gh that soelal engagements at tbe Executive Mansion hod been ouneeled for the
week owing to the death of tjie Oovenwr' fetbor. Qeorge O. Uriunbaugh, t Marktes
burg. funtti84oo County. Tbeee Included a Oictner loHuUtor ICoo. of Cntoa, Tu-da-
evening, a dinner to former President Taft Thursday ovcnla, and the usual New
Year' reception next Mooda.
NEWS.
CITY TO OLD POINT COMFORT
20, M. E. J. JnckwUlunrrivctl at
from Atlantic City irt a CinUss liy-
record time, according to obacrvo.u.
the tievero cold.
SOCIAL ENGAGEMENTS
U. S. SHIPS SPEED
TO SINKING CRAFT
Maryland, Which Wirelessed
Distress, May HaVo
Foundered in Storm
CREW'S PATE UNKNOWN
Heavy Seas Add to Peril
Rescue Parties Off
Nowport
of
NHWroTtT, It, U Dec, SI. The ateatrr
hip Maryland, which early today wire
lessed that she waa In distress about 14
miles southeast of here, la believed to liars
con down. Iie fate of her crew Is it
mystery.
llevenue cutters nnd vessels which started
st once for the Maryland's position have
not teimrted, but the Maryland's wireless
has been stilled ever since the first calf.
Mariners here pointed out thnt If she wee
still afloat lm undoubtedly would continue
to send calls to guide the rescuers.
There Is a bad sea runnlnc to lh east
nnd n, cold north itnle, which strengthened
the belief here that the Maryland coutd net
sun It e. lttr first message stated thatbef
engine rtam was being flooded. That-was
almost twelve hours ago,
While It Is not definitely certain. It I
believed thai the Maryland Is the lt9S
ton vessel belonging to the New York,
I'hlladeiphln and Norfolk riallroad Com
pany, which sailed from Philadelphia o
Saturday with a general cargo for Indos, .,
Grave fears nro fell for the safety of
her crew. Uten If they escaped the vessel.
It was polnltM out, they could not hop
to aurtlte long tn the heavy seas In a small
boat.
So serious does the Coast duard Service
consider tbe condition ot tha Maryland UuU
the cuttor dremhnm has been added to those
already on the war to help, making four
Government boats speeding to the Mary
land's rescue.
A French steamship, the name of which
could not he learned, was sighted today by
coast guard lookouts here flying signals of
distress three miles oft Oayhead. The ves
set appeared to be resting easily tn Arts
ttater. With tha weather moderating; It W
not belfcted she Is tn anydanger. '
A Urltlsh vessel ot 3912 tons, the Mary,
land, built In Glasgow, cleared the p?rt of
Vhllndelphla December 30 with a cargo- of
merchandise. Sho was reported to have
cleared lleedy Island December S3. .The
record of American and foreign shipping
the owner of the ship. Captain llayford la
In command of the vessel.
If this la the ship reported sinking, she
could tery well have reached the loeatjen
deecrlbed In tho foregoing dispatches.
MEXICAN "SHOWDOWN"'
. TODAY, DEMAND OF U.&
Cnrranzn Must Sign or Refuse to
Accopt Protocol Already
Framed
WASHINGTON, De. 38 The United
States Is tiled of tho evasions and preten
stons of Vimustlnno Carrnnxa. de facte
ruler of Mexico, This wus mndo plain In
official circles today, when It was admitted
that Ids slgnaturo to'n repudiation of the
border protocol had been demanded. He
has not been served with any ultimatum
ThaV Is not the Administration way But
ho has been told, In firm and unmistakable
language, that it reply otrtllnlnr his stand
on the protocol Is "espected" not later than
midnight tonight
Secretary of the Interior Franklin JC
I.ane, who Is chairman of the Amrc
section of the American-Mexican commis
sion, said today the Administration wa
tired of fruitless discussion with the Mex
ican representatives.
Tho tell of secrecy which surrounded
much of the recent negotiations In Phila
delphia Is now lifted The Mexican section
of the commiwion w ","'". """
that the modified protocol , submitted by
General Carranxa would not be accepted
under any circumstances. It was told also,
that the protocol signed by the full com
mission nt Atlontlo Clly a few weeks sga
was the only one the United States Intended
to draw up and ngree to, and that It must
bo accepted or rejected
In the event of notification of accept
ance of tho protocol reaching here before
midnight, another meeting of the commission
will bo held here a week from today, to
make preliminary arrangements to pro,
oeed with the negotiations. If It If rejected,.
Miv I.a!io sold, th course of the Admin
istration waB problematical
Whether the Mexican situation would
reach a sharper crisis today than any la
years hinged on one demand by Carranxa.
His modification nt the protocol, rejected
by the American members of the commis
sion at Philadelphia last week, waa In th
main the Insertion of n agreement that
Mexican do facto troops be granted the
right lo cros Into American territory In
pursuit of bapdlta This. It was said, was
due as a recognition of the overelgnty of
Mexioo to offset that right assumed by
Amsrlean troop.
General Carranxa was dlsplsased like
wise with the arrangement n the protocol
agreed upon at Atlantlo City, which left
uncertain dale tor 111 wltlulrawal- f
th Pershing column While officials her
are confident that, with the Increasing rebel
aellvltl In northern Mexico, the Ameran
troopi are a positive protection to muo
of the territory under Carranxlata control
they tainted out that 'for horn consump
tion," at least, the d facto leader must
appear to Insist on an immediate wUhr
ilruwol of the column on the ground tHt
It constitutes a menace to Mexican sov
relgnty. MUHI)iHED MAN IDENTIFIED
Victim of Crime Chester Waa Isas
Taylorof Pittsburgh
Dec. The b4y. yi
thO
street brldfa here early Sunday raorib,
with 'gunshot woua4 la Uie baejc wa
wentinea at nKu ioaay urn isuue isywr,
reetdent ( Pittsburgh
Taylor was employed at the Hewu
Anns Oomiiiny plant and bearded la
stone. T1i Identification of the Ma ;
was Mtabnshed by ioka Mat tier, at
Day etreet. PUlaaeleltla. A brother of
dead man called V the Morgue liter Is tb
day a4 Mois4 ttw boAy VmaaCf
tauriti are wrktag im th tut, but vc
faU4 t ai oy MMKh fur te crlw
euaiiTHa. a .
maWBfSUBU n
hUkm
,w wutWe U HM W
