J t. '
WEATHER. if GSM | "B??if "From Press to Home
9iri^ ^SSfCx Within the HouT
Temperature (or twenty-four hours end- P * * Bye X H I?
raggr*-- ,i WHk XilvIUUU ? _?-i
CliOSIlfG JEW YORK STOCKS PAGE IB. ^ 1*1*" D*"7 Awr*? r' S"*S"T- MM
No. 29.544. ~~ . WASHINGTON, D. C., TUESDAY, DECEMBER 26, 1916?EIGHTEEN PAGES. ^ ONE CENT.
MUST REPLY TODAY'
OR TALK WILL END
i
Carranza's Rejection of Submitted
Agreement Will Stop
U. S.-Mexico Negotiations.
i
AWAITING DEFINITE REPLY
? |
-VKW VOHK. Decernbrr ild.??'The i
Mexican member** of the joint j
commission had received no word
from f>en. Carranza rrvardiiiK the
American communication up to
J :15 o'clock this afternoon, it wast
stated here by I,uia Cabrera.
Unless Gen. Carranza returns a favorable
answer today to the last communication
ma?le to his commissioners by
... - trool."
I '"J ililici ll'UIl JCpil-SvlJUUl?ca -? " V v. ?
ago at Philadelphia, the negotiations
will come to an end.
The Mexican commisloners will meet
in New York today, and if Carranza has
pent to them his answer, it is expected
Luis Cabrera, chairman of the Mexican
delegation, will forward it immediately
to Secretary Lane, chairman of the
American section.
When the joint Mexican-American
f ommisslon re-eonven^d at Philadelphia.
Alberto J. Pani, the Mexican commissioner.
who had carried the protocol
signed at Atlantic City to Queretaro
-"or ratification by Gen. Carranza. sub- ;
nutted a counter proposal. It was. in j
effect, a rejection of the agreement en- ;
tr-red into by the commissioners and ;
the substitution of another protocol ;
that had been drafted by the Mexican i
enmmisioners at the direction of Car- j
runza.
Befuse to Consider Proposal.
The Americans replied In a written
communication, saying that they could
not consider the counter protocol, and
Insisting that the agreement already
made must either be ratified or definite13"
repudiated. Some aspect of an ultimatum
was given the communication
by the insistence that an answer would
be expected by December 26.
It was not specihcallv stated that failure
to ratify the agreement would result
in a final break in negotiations, but the
intimation that the Americans would not
continue the debates that already have extended
over three months was clearly
made.
Whether Carranza has ratified the
agreement is unknown by the American
commissioners or by the State Department.
Mr. Cabrera was in Washington
yesterday to spend Christmas with* Ambassador
Designate Arredondo and returned
to New York last night to meet
with Commissioners Pani and Bonillas.
He did not communicate with Secretary
Lane while here, and at the embassy it
was said this morning that when he left
here no word as to Carranz&'s actions had
been received. I
Depends on Carranza'* Answer. j1
If Carranza's answer Is communicated I (
to Secretary Lane today arrangements
for a continuation of the conferences of j .
the joint commission will be made un- j ,
less the character of the reply is such as
to make It evident that continued debate
on the subject is useless. In that case a
formal exchange of notes by the chairmen
of the commission will probably mark the
finish of the work.
In the event that Carranza agrees to
the terms of the protocol as signed it is
expected that the session will be resumed
* one week from today, perhaps in Washv
ington, although the Mexicans have expressed
a desire that they might be held
m New YorkForeigners
Protected.
Villa is giving protection to those
"or^igners who remained in Torreon
after he took the city, according to
official advices to the State Department
today, which added that the party of
foreigners who fled with British Consul
O'Hea before the capture of the
city were blocked at San Luis Potosi
because the bandits had cut the railroad
line northward toward Saltillo.
The Vila bands thus have cut Carranza's
communication by rail with the
border. Army men take It as part of
Villa's nlan of r-amnaicn Thaw
expect Villa, to Bend a force toward
t either Saltillo or Monterey while the .
<Zedillo brother* operating farther east
complete the division of north and |
south by interrupting traffic over the t
r ailway b*tw een San Luis Potosi and
Vampico. the line over which a great ;
part of the oil for the Carranza troop j
Trains is moved.
Phillip M. O'Keefe, American mana- |
ger of a hotel in Mexico, was arrested '
n few days ago on the charge of seditious
activities. The State Department
has ordered an investigation.
No Word From Mexico City.
NEW YORK. December 26.?Luis
Cabrera. chairman of the Mexican
delegation of the joint commission,
was in conference throughout the
morning with his associates, Commissioners
Pani and Bon I lias. He described
th<- meeting afterward as one
at which they were "discussing important
matters," but further than
that h* declined to say anything def
itc. except that nothing had b*?er. >
h'-ard frotii Mexico City. IJe said that I
; !: * session will continue until tonight
1 tha. <\;>y statement concerning rcits
mii.-t conn- from the joint commission
a.s a whole.
AFRAID OF BERLIN REPLY.
TintnVi CATT*-?> ?* w>TT7nt. 1 IJ ?'
Jtr Uivu V.VT CiUXUCilt W llllliuxas lis
Presentation to Parliament.
*?. MSTKRIMM, December 25, via Lon
ion.?The T'degraaf says it has reason
to believe that Germany's reply to Hoi
hind's note regarding the deportation of j
Belgian workmen :s framed in .such I
t.-rms that it was Inadvisable to com- |
2?;. 11 ai?- to it i'i tie* Dutch parliament,!
?i that the xov^n nient has requested
Berlin to titer tin- reply in such a ntani
that i' may be presented to the parliament.
The Dutch government lust month instructed
i's Berlin representative to |
notify Germany that the Belgian depor- I
lations had caused paiiif.nl impressions !
i-i Holland. A Rotterdam nfspatch on I
J December 5 said Germany has responded
in words which were tantamount to say- |
ine "mind your own business."
New Paper Money for Poland.
WARSAW. Saturday. December 23,
f \ t-a Berlin and wireless to the Asso-?uted
Pre.- - to Sajvillc. l>.-c<?ntbcr 25.?
I y.*v. Gen. von Bcseler lias' signed an
i ? rder creating the Polish State Credit-'
\ Bank, which shortly will issue new/
! paper currency in Polish marks of .a?
t value equivalent to Get man marks-and
guaranteed by the German government.
B
TWO BIG PROBLEMS
BEFORE CONGRESS
Treasury Deficit and Post-War
Trade Menace Engage
Lawmakers.
.
TARIFF ISSUE SHARPENING
Two propositions will be impending:,
for thought at least, and possibly for
consideration, when Congress convenes
after the holiday recess, January 2?provision
for the inevitable deficit at the
close of the next fiscal year, and the
certain inrush of foreign merchandise
when peace in Europe is effected i
As lo the first subject, opinion is divided
in Congress upon action at this
session. Some of the men charged
with the responsibility of finding ways
and means for the support of the government
are disposed to do as little as
possible at this session, leaving the
next Congress to tackle the problem.
Bond Issue a Safeguard.
It is argued that the deficit first
threatened can be met by the sale of
Panama bonds, and that the deficit
looming up for 1913 can be provided for
by the next. Congress. The republicans
are more concerned about tariff conditions
after the war than anything
else, although the democrats are not
worrying about the tariff just now.,
, Tim republicans say that as soon as
war ends the mills of all the belligerent
nations will be set going to furnish
employment to the soldiers dismissed
from the ranks and to get back the j
great volume of gold now held in this j
country. During the pendency of the j
war the tariff question has been in
abeyance, but the democratic tariff is j
still on the books, and, according to the i
republican doctrine, the bars are down
to an extent which will menace home
industries by foreign competition.
Cites Figures Before War.
The republicans take the figures of
imports for the months intervening between
the enactment of the present
law and the declaration of war to supnort
their arenmentK that- th^ TTnit^
States will be overwhelmed with foreign
imports and American industries
put out of business or compelled to
lower the present scale of wages.
The democrats. It is said, are depending
upon the "anti-dumping clause" in
the last revenue bill to protect the
United States from unfair competition,
and it is not democratic policy to admit
that competition under conditions
imposed by their tariff law will be
hurtful to American manufacturers and
producers.
Mistrust Dumping Clause.
The republicans scout the claim that
the dumping clause will be of avail in
*ny case except proven conspiracy to
Injure American trade by bringing in
goods at a price lower than they bring
in Europe. They insist that this measure
cannot be invoked against ordinary
imports, which, by reason of the cheapness
of manufacture abroad, they contend
will undersell American-made
wares.
American labor, it is contended, is |
now upon a wage scale unprecedented
in the history of the world, due to the
demand for goods created by the war.
Manufacturers, according to th? r<?nnh.
lican claim, will be unable to continue'
to pay these wages and compete with
foreign cheap labor. The possibility of j
peace being declared during the in-!
terregnum of Congress between March j
4 and next December will bring on a I
crisis in industrial affairs in this country,
the republicans insist, unless tariff
rates are readjusted to meet new conditions.
FAST TRAIN CRASHES INTO
DERAILED FREIGHT CARS
Special Dispatch to The Star.
PHILADELPHIA, December 26.? j
Three hundred passengers on a Pennsylvania
railroad New York to Washing- |
ton express were thrown into a state
of high excitement last evening when !
the train crashed into two derailed
freight cars while traveling at a speed
of almost a mile a minute. The accident
occurred near Liddonlield. a small
station east of Holmesburg Junction.
The passenger try.in escaped without
damage, only the front of the locomotive
being smashed, but the freight cars
were battered. They were loaded with
steel beams.
Passengers on the express were badly I
shaken up by the collision. The train
left JKew York at 6 o'clock and was due I
in Broad street station last night at 8
o'clock.
The two cars near the end of the,
freight train were derailed as the ex- !
press was speeding past it. As the locomotive
plowed into the freight cars i
the engine-man applied his emergency
brakes. This caused many of the passengers
to be thrown from their seats, j
.Excitement ran high for a few seconds,
but the passengers were assured by ,
the train crew that no danger existed. !
ALLIES HAVE BIG FLEET
ALONG ATLANTIC COAST
BOSTON, December 26.?The presence
on this side of the Atlantic* of a
formidable fleet of allied warships was
indicated delinitely today. The vessels
are known officially us commerce protectors.
They are heavily armed and
disguised. tor obvious reasons their
exact disposition is not revealed, but
tlo arrival recently in American
waters of this newest unit of the British
and Erencn admiralties was made
known from ? source that hardly can
be mistaken.
HOUSE CONTEST IN COURT.
Coleman, Pennsylvania Republican,
Opposes Kelley, Democrat.
PITTSBURGH, Pu., December 26.
Representative W. It. Coleman, who, on
the face of the returns, was defeated
for Congress in the Thirtieth Pennsylvania
district, today appeared in common
pleas court and gave notice that
he would contest in the House of Representatives
the election of M. Clyde
Relieve democrat.
Mr. f'oleinan asked That the court
order"*!' ballot boxes brought to the
biiirt&oife and placed under guard, declarfrig
tnat'.if the votes had been properly
counted he would have been elect?ra>y
ihotle'ss than D00. The court toolc
'tlfo )&&&& under con^Pieratloc.
MARYLAND SINKING,1
WIRELESS REPORTS
Calls for Help Give Position as
380 Miles East of
Sandy Hook.
VESSELS HURRY TO SCENE
By tho Associated Press.
NEW YORK, December 2o.?The
steamship Maryland, shortly after midnight,
sent out messages stating that
she was sinking and asking immediate
aid. The Maryland gave her position as
latitude 39, longitude *57, or about 380
! miles east of Sandy Hook. The coastwise
steamship City of Savannah and
the coast guard cutter Acushnet today
hurried to her assistance.
The City of Savannah was 160 miles
g south of the position given by the
Maryland when the call for aid was received.
T,he Acushnet was at Woods
Hole, Mass., when ordered to proceed .
to the assistance of the Maryland. The
coast guard cutter Mohawk, which left j
Sandy Hook when the first appeal for j
help was received, was ordered later to i
return, in view of the proximity to the 1
Maryland of other vessels en route to j
| her aid.
Since th<* first call for help, which j
was picked up by wireless stations in {
this city and at the naval station at I
Newport, li. I., no further word was;
| received from the Maryland.
Wireless Is Disabled. j
! NANTUCKET, Mass., December 26.?
Tho Maryland's wireless was out of
j commission this forenoon because of the
flooding of her engine room, according j
to word received by wireless operators ,
Ion the coast. It was. not expected that*!
| the cutter Acushnet could reach the I
Maryland position before late this after- j
ernoon, but the steamer City of SaIvannah
was thought to bo able to get;
I there soon after noon.
No Passengers Aboard.
PHILADELPHIA, December 26. ? The ;
I steamer Maryland sailed from here last j
j Saturday for London. She Is owned by
the Crew Levick Company of this city,
and for years was engaged in trade on
the great lakes. She is a steel vessel
and was built at Wyandotte, Mich., in
1890. The Maryland was brought here ;
last September from the lakes and was
overhauled for the transatlantic trade.
She is commanded by Capt. F. A. Hayford
and her crew numbers thirty-four
men. There are no passengers.
She has a net tonnage of 1,892, is 3d 6 i
feet long, 42 feet beam and has a depth j
of 20 feet.
The cargo consists of pipe, lubricat- j
Ing oil, sirup, canned tomatoes and?
iron.
TWO SCHOONERS WRECKED. I
Little Hope of Saving Either?Third
Is Stranded?All Crews Saved.
NANTUCKET. Mass., December 26.?
The schooner Roger D/*ury was sunk
off Great Point, the schooner Daniel
McLoud was stranded on the northern
end of the Rip off the point and the
British schooner Ravola was wrecked
I on the southern end of the Rip in a
northwest gaJe today. When the Roger
| Drury struck her crew launched a
- ? ?11 !???? nn#l lon/la/t eafali. fTUa I
I niiictn ?"?i- ? ?? -? ?i?uuvu """"J iii^i
: crews of the Ravola and Daniel Mc- j
i Loud were brought ashore by coast j
guards.
Both the'Ravola and Daniel McLoud ;
are coal laden, bound from New Jersey
ports to the eastward. Little hope of i
saving either was expressed. ;
109 NAVY PROMOTIONS
0. K.'D BY SPECIAL BOARD
Six new rear admirals, twenty-eight
captains and seventy-five commanders,
the first to be promoted under the new
system of selection in the navy, are on
the list presented to Secretary Daniels today
by the special board which examined
the fitness of the officers. He will lay
the list before President Wilson and later
the nominations will go to the Senate.
Kach promotion is to be made from the
next lowest grade. Existing vacancies
will require four new rear admirals,
twelve captains and thirty-five commanders.
The others selected will fill vacan- j
cies expected during the coming year.
WITH PAPER SAVING IN VIEW.
Senator Chilton Asks How Depart-<
ments May Practice Economy.
Senator Chilton of West Virginia,
chairman of the Senate printing com- |
mlttee, today addressed letters to the
heads of various government departments,
asking what economy in the matter
of printing could be practiced by
their department. His letter was sent (
in a'.'.uiudin \%iin a, resoiuuon orrereu !
by Senator Kenyon directing the com- '
rnitt.ee on printing to investigate as to;
what government publications may be
temporarily suspended, so as to save ,
print paper.
Senator Cnilton asked the department
heads what publications may be temporarily
suspended or permanently
alrolished, what economy has already
been effected in the Issue of government '
publications, and v/hat additional economy
may be practiced.
Rev. George E. Lovejoy Dies.
LAWRENCE, Mass., December 2G.?
Rev. George E. Lovejoy, formerly chaplain
in chief of the Grand Army of the
Republic, has died at his home here. !
He had been pastor of the. South Con- j
1 gregational Church in this city since I
i
Brazilian Bark Towed Into Port. !
NEW YORK, December 2G.?The I
Brazilian bark Xepthis, which broke ?
away from the tug Garibaldi during a j
storm on the night of Friday. December |
15. and whose crew of twelve were res- !
cued by the Italian steamship Sardegna i
and brought into this port December la, !
was towed into port by the coast guard ,
cutter Seneca today. . The Nepthis, in
tow of the Garibaldi, left Maranham,
Brazil, October 13.
Warfare in Eastern Arena.
UK HI.IN", lleoember 28. by wireless to
Sayville.?Regarding military operations
along the Russian rront today's
statement by army headquarters says:
"Front of Prince Leopold?On the
Lower Stokhod the Russian artillery
was more active than usual Northwest
of Lutsk an enterprise conducted by
German detachments resulted in the
bringing In of sixteen prisoners" V <
<<, I . '
v. r- M -
Onfl
4: ' ;i
GUARDSMEN OF D. C.
GETLEFIOVER'EATS'
Dinners Almost Equal to the
Christmas Feasts Are
Served Today.
GIFTS TO MEN IN HOSPITAL
by j. cbosby McCarthy,
CAMP WILSON, with District National
Guard, San Antonio, Tex., December 26.
?This is a second Christmas day for
every one except those engaged in guard
and necessary fatigue duly. Dinners
that are almost as fine as those served
yesterday are on the program, for in
practically every instance the mess sergeants
of the District organization overestimated
the capacity of the men and
there are lots of toothsome "leftovers"
for tociay. Belated Christmas packages
are continuing to arrive and probably will
continue for several days to come, for
there has been considerable congestion of
the mails.
Appreciation Manifested.
Appreciation of the gifts which they
received yesterday from the citizens of
Washington continues to be the chief topic
of conversation among the District soldiers.
They are not the only persons who
arc talking about the handsome way in
which they were remembered by their
home city, for news of the wholesale
gift-giving plan has spread over Camp
Wilson arid San Antonio. The local newspa
tiers have carrier! full accounts of the
manner in which the people of Washington
remembered their soldiers on the borderland.
The movie men lost no time yesterday
afternoon in corning out to camp
to take pictures of the presentation of the
gifts to several of the companies which
preferred to save their presents for dinner
rather than distribute them at breakfast.
None of the District militiamen appreciated
the gifts from their fellow
citizens more than several of the soldiers
from the Nation^ Capital who
were so unfortunate a:s to spend Christmas
day in the base hospital at Fort
Sam Houston. Chaplain Smith took
their bags of presents to them yesterday
afternoon. The thought that they
had been remembered in such a liberal
w? v moved several of them tn tears.
City Presents Carnival Aspect.
Last night the majority of the District
soldiers were out of camp, for the
streets of San Antonio took on a carnival
aspect which attracted every one.
The air was filled with the explosions
of firecrackers and bombs.
Capt. William H. Beckstein of Company
D of the 3d District Infantry has
been detached from his command and
is to serve under Maj. Francis H. Pope,
in charge of the motor truck companies
at Fort Sam Houston during the
remainder of his stay here. This is the
second District officer to be given service
with the truck companies, the other
being Lieut. Thomas Brown. Capt.
Beckstein may be^given command of a
truck company now in the process of
formation.
TWO DESTROYERS SUNK
IN NORTH SEA COLLISION
LONDON. December 26.?The admiralty
announces that two destroyers
in a collision in the North
sea on December 21 during very bad
weather. Six officers and forty-nine
men were lost.
Dr. Naomi Norsworthy Dies.
NEW YORK, December 26.?Dr. Naomi
Norsworthy, associate professor of
educational psychology at Teachers'
College, Columbia University and author
of several books on psychology,
has died here. She was connected with
the staff of Teachers' College for sixteen
years and was a member of the
American Psychological Association,
the National Educational Association
and the American Association for the
Advancement of Sciences.
Increase War Relief Donation.
BE RUIN. December 26, l>y wireless to
Sayville.?In the second twelve months
of the war 256 establishments, members
of the German Association of Iron and
Steel Industries, donated more than
92,000,000 marks to a war relief f'pnd for
their employes. The amount spent?for-'
this purpose by the memters of the! association
in the previous,year amounted,
to nearly iM,OOO,0OO marki. " ** V ~
/ 5 .;
AT T^IE BUSY COUNTER.
warships mmi
in qtranto strait
Two Allied Vessels Sunk, Four Damaged.
Says Berlin?Rome I
Version Differs. j
j
By t nc Asfwciatfd Pits*.
I BERLIN, December 26, by wireless to
SayvU'?.?Two allied patrol boats were
sunk and four other allied warships |
were damaged in the recent naval engagement
In the Strait of Otranto, the
Austrian admiralty announces. Two
Austrian destroyers were hit. The (
Austrian announcement follows: <
"On the night of December 22-23 four
! Austro-Hungarlan destroyers made a ,
j raid in the Otranto strait, and after an
i engagement sank two armed patrol ,
; boats. On their way back at least six .
j hostile destroyers of greater size and
! speed, evidently of the Indomito class, ^
i blocked their way. A violent comoat;
I with puns ensued. One hostile destroy-'
; er was set on fire and three others were '
hit several times at short range* The i ?
enemy's sea forces, among which was t
| one vessel of a more powerful and unknown
type, were routed. 1
"One of our destroyers was hit twice i
In the funnel and another was hit In <
the superstructure. One man was .
killed. There were no wounded."
Borne Account of Battle.
ROME, via Paris, December 26.?A
' naval engagement between French, Italian
and Austrian warships in the Strait of j
Otranto is announced in an official state- i
merit issued by the admiralty. The state- j
merit says:
j "Several enemy ships attacked our pa- j
I irol vessels in Ontranto channel on the
I night of December 23. French and Italian
warships came to the rescue and the j
enemy fled under cover of darkness after
a sharp engagement. What damage he
suffered is unknown. Two French destroyers
and one patrol boat were hit
j and slightly damaged."
I The Indomito class consists of ten
j Italian destroyers 239 feet long, armed
i with one 4.7-inch gun and four twelve!
pounders.
WILL MIT A PLAN
! FOR MILITARY TRAINING :
| , s
Col. Webb C. Hayes of the Ohio National
Guard to Appear Before c
Senate Committee. *
A plan for universal military train- t
ing for the young: men of this country ^
will be submitted to the Senate mill- ^
tary affairs committee by Col. Webb C.
Hayes of the Ohio National Guard soon ^
after the Christmas recess of Congress,
Senator Harding of Ohio said today.
Under this plan it is proposed to create
a trained military citizenship from
which to draw such forces as may be P
needed by enrolling all young men sev- ^
enteen years old and training- them d
three months each summer for four sufc- 11
cessive years. It is estimated that v
about 1.000,000 boys reach the am nf ^
seventeen each year. After about SO c
per cent had been exempted for one
ojnise or another, about 1,200 would be- p
come available for strict military serv- c
ice in each of the 435 congressional dis- ?
trlcts each year. This would constitute f
In the first year a minimum regiment, 1
two regiments in the second year, three
in the third, and thereafter a brigade
of 4,800 young men to be trained annually
in each congressional district.
Advantages of PExposed System.
The advantages of such a system, it
was explained today, are that In the
course of time every able-bodied male &
in the country over twenty-one years
of age will have had four years of Intensive
military training, and this re- e
suit will be obtained with the least ?
possible interference with school and
college courses, and with business,
farming and laSftr conditions.
The men will be taken at an age c
when they aru unmarried and not ybt
settled in business, and the course of 1
training will be completed before a a
man reaches his twenty-first birthday, s
when ho must take up the responsibiii- b
ties of civil life. If war compels thu
calling out for active service of this h
trained citizenship, the classes then in b
training, will,be Urst drawn upon, .and tl
next those who . have . most recently a
completes! their training, thus taking e
till order thosi'best trained and with.ii
the least family re'sfib risibilities. Jb
*
'' '' '''
Iyfollow action
taken bythe swiss
Indications That Other Neutral
Nations Will Indorse U. S.
Peace Move.
DR. HITTER AT WHITE HOUSE
Indications accumulated in official
luarters here today that the action of
Switzerland in supporting the recent
leace move of the United States may
>e followed by similar action on the
sart of other European neutrals. Holland,
Spain, the Scandinavian counries
and the Pope, it was said, are expected
to take some action in the near
!uture.
Dr. Paul Rltter, the Smiss minister
lere, will see President Wilson within
i few days to discuss the peace situaion.
He called at the White House today
.o gather information on how the Swiss
jeace note had been received in this
country, in order to send a report to
lis government.
Solely in Interest of Peace.
T>r. Ritter was concerned over.news>aper
reports that the action of the
Swiss government was construed as
support for the cause of the central
lowers. He told Secretary Tuinulty
lie action of his government was solelj11
the interest of peace.
Messages from individuals and organizations
in Holland and other neural
European nations continued to arive
at the White House today in large
lumbers. All commended the Presilent
for his recent note and indicated
hat strong pressure was being brought
>n the governments of European neuirals
to take action.
Although the United States will coninue
to act alone, supporting action
>y other neutral nations will be welcomed
by President Wilson, it is said.
Spanish Envoy Sees Mr. Lansing:.
Spanish Ambassador Riano conferred
vith Secretary Lansing today, but both
officials refused to discuss the meeting
>eyond saying that the ambassador
sought further information as to the
>eace situation.
Spain, Mr. Riano said, had not yet
;ent a reply to President Wilson's note,
ind there has been no indication yet
is to whether she would follow
Switzerland as the third intermediary
ntrusted with the forwarding of the
:entral powers' proposals ^in indorsing
lie ricoiuciu o a.v.v.iv.*'i. iiitn any
vord been received, it was said, as to
vhen the allies would reply to those
>roposals.
World Opinion of Peace Note
Topic at Cabinet Meeting
President and Mrs. Wilson played
:olf this morning, returning: to the
Vhite House about noon. The Presiient
had one engagement in the afterloon
besides the cabinet meeting, at
irhich the world's opinion of the Presilent's
recent peace note will be disussed.
The President has followed the newsaper
dispatches from abroad very
losely and is also in receipt of official
dvices from ambassadors and minisers
in all nations, neutral and beligerent.
F. L. SMALL ON TRIAL. J
Answers Charge of Murdering Wife |
and Bnrning Body.
OS.SIPEE. N. H? December 2G.?Prom
panel of eighty talesmen, mostly farmrs,
will be chosen the Jury which will
sten to the evidence in the case of Fredrick
L. Small, charged with the murder
f his wife, Florence Arlene Small. The
rial was set to begin this afternoon bejre
Justice John Kivel.
The prosecution is in charge of Attorney
General James P. Tuttle and County Socitor
Walter Hill. Small's attorneys
ro William A. Matthews and Sidney
tevens?of Somersworth and Sewall Abott
of^Wolfeboro.
Small's cottage at Mountain View near
ere was burned on the night of Septemer
28. Mrs. Small's body was found in
4e cellar the next morning with a cord
bout the neck, a bullet wound over one
ye and wounds on the head. Small was
i Boston when the {fire was discovered*
ut immediately returned.
. I 1 . 'U.
FIUPECNTI SEIZED
AT BAYONET POINT
Germans Take Strong Russ
Positions on Both Sides
of Rumanian Town.
CAPTURE 5,500 PRISONERS
By the Associated Press.
BERLIN. December 2(5. by wireless t<
Sayvilie.?In Rumania 5,500 more prls
oners hg.ve been taken by the Teuton!
allies, the war office announced.
The town of Filipechti, on the rail
road between Buzeu and Brailia, wa
captured at the point of the bayonel
Strongly intrenched Russian position
on both sides of the village were storm
ed, the statement says. The statemen
reads:
"Front of Archduke Joseph?On Lu
dova height in the wooded Carpathian
there was temporarily a strong artil
iery fire. In Neagra valley, south o
Dorna Watra, an advance by Russia:
raiding detachments failed.
Thousands Captured.
"Front of Field Marshal von Macken
sen?During engagements on the grea
Wallachian plain on the edge of th
mountain south of Rimnik Sarat durin
the last few days 5,500 Russians wer
taken prisoner.
"Yesterday frequently tested Oerma
divisions, with auxiliary battalions o
Austro-Hungarians. stormed at th
point of the bayonet the tenacious!
defended village of Filipechti on th
railroad from Buzeu to Brailia, togethe
with strongly intrenched Russian posi
tions adjoining on both sides."
Rumanians Retake Height.
PETROGRAD, December 26.?Britis
! admiralty per wireless press, via Lon
don. 2:45 p.m.?Recapture by Rumania
! forces of one of the heights they re
i cently lost in the fighting along th
j Moldavian frontier is announced by th
1 war office today. The statement reads
! "The enemy is bombarding with a
| intense artillery fire the regions of th
i villages of Planiaks, Maniuff and Guk
alovse forest. South of Brzezany th
! enemy is directing his fire along th
j heights occupied by us east of the vil
luges of Lipnica L?olna and Svistilnik
"On the Moldavian frontier, in th
j valley of the River Kasino. Rumania
i troops by a during attack regained on
of the heights lost by them yesterdaj
i "On the Rumanian front the enem
! made fleece attacks at the source o
| the River Srlshtza, in the region c
Dragoslatzoff. They were repelled b
Rumanian counter attacks, which a
the same time secured three machin
guns. At the source of the River Rim
| nik the enemy pressed back our ad
vanced posts, which withdrew to th
main positions. ?
"In the valley of the River Kilnat
west of Rimnik Sarat, all the enem
1? Kw ruir firs
| itlLiHHO WCIC ICJTO.IVU ~ J ww. ...
! "Throughout the day the enemy, wit
! considerable forces, made a number c
! attacks on the Filipechti-Lichkotiank
i front, which were repulsed with grea
| losses to him. The lighting was espe
cially fierce in the village of Filipecht
which, on being set afire by the enem
artillery, we evacuated.
"In Dobrudja there was an exchang
of fire by patrols."
Bumanians Yield Ground.
Renewed heavy fighting is in progres
in eastern Wallachia. yesterday's wa
office statement announces. The Ru
manians were forced to yield groun
at some points and the Russians los
a height north of the Buzeu-Rimni!
road, but repulsed all other attacks.
The evacuation of Tultcha an
Isaktcha, in Dobrudja, is announced.
Attempts by Austro-German troops t
recapture heights occupied by the Rus
sians north of the Uzul valley were re
pulsed sanguinarily, the Russians cap
turing two guns and more than 20
prisoners. The statement of yesterda
reads:
"Western front?On ihe River By
stritza our scouts made some sucx'-essfe
reconnoissances- in the region of Star
Lisic, capturing a number of prisoners
rifles and hand grenades.
Enemy Suffers Heavily.
"In the wooded Carpathians and o]
the Moldavian frontier, in the regio;
north of the Uzul valley, the enemy b;
several repeated attacks following ar
tillery preparation attempted to re
capture the heights occupied by u
yesterday. Our troops allowed the en
emy to approach trenches and thei
tired at almost point blank range am
also threw hand grenades upon them
All counter attacks were repulsed, am
the enemy suffered heavy losses. Thi
slopes of the heights are covered witl
dead. In the course of the day we tool
eight officers and 21S men prisoner am
captured two guns and one trend
mortar.
"Rumanian front?In the region o
the Kaslno river and in the Vranche.*
mountains the enemy continued his at
tacks and pushed back the Rumaniai
troops in some places.
Height Changes Hands.
"From 11 a-m. the enemy violently
bombarded our troops with light anc
heavy artillery on both aides of th<
Buzeu-Rimnik road and the region ol
Saharychioul and Balenechiou!. The enemy
lire was particularJy fierce north ol
the road, where he launched attacks am
captured a height south of Rakovacheni
Our troops counter-attacked and dislodged
the enemy from this height, bui
lour detachments soon abandoned it
| again, as the enemy was sweeping it
with shells.
"All enemy attacks In other regions ol
the left bank of the Danube, which were
extremely tierce in the neighborhood oi
Drogul, were repulsed by our fire.
"In Dobrudja the left wing of out
troops abandoned Isaktcha and Tultcha,
which places were occupied by the
enemy.
"On the right flank an artillery duel
took place throughout the whole day.
It was especialy violent in the region
of the Danube village of Brechu.
"Caucasus front?There was an exchange
of tire with reconnoissances by
our scouts."
j On the Macedonian Front.
j BERLIN, December 26, by wireless to
Sayville.?Army headquarters today reported
as follows on the Macedonian
front operations:
"Macedonian front: Succesful patrol
advances were made by Bulgarian infantry
northwest of Monastir. In the
bend of the Cerna there has been artillery
firing of varying violence."
LONDON. December 26.?The official
British statement on operations on the
Macedonian front, issued under Sunday's
date, is as follows:
"On Saturday we raided an enemy position
northwest of Seres, on the Struma
front. Our aircraft successfully bombarded
Xanthi station and an enemy
transport column there. One enemy
airplane was destroyed and a second
brought down by our airplanes."
Yesterday's official statement on the
Macedonian operations reads:
"On the Doiran front we successfully
raided the enemy's main line trenches
between Lake Doiran and Doldzeli, inflicting
serious loss and destroying several
gun emplacements."
*
'nun
THE WILSON NOTE;
NO TERMS NAMED
Central Powers Propose Ini
stead Immediate Conference
s I
at Neutral Place.
^ FUTURE PEACE QUESTION
MUST AWAIT WAR'S END
s |
t, 5 President Praised as "High Minded"'
for Effort to Terminate
11 World Conflict.
I
-1
s 1 Bjr tne Associated Press.
f BERLIN". December 26, by
"1 wireless to Sayville.?Germanv
and her allies?Austria-Hungary,
Bulgaria and Turkey?today ret
plied to the note of President Wil*
son in which he asked that the
e'l belligerent nations state the aims
" ! for which they were lighting.
?! The propo>al is made by the
e!central powers that a conference
- i of the delegates of all the belligerents
be held immediately in a
I neutral city. The task of preh'
venting future wars, the official
" { &
n statement says, can be begun only
e after the fend of the present
?. | struggle.
n I
e Text of German Note.
e The text of the reply, which tri?
e transmitted today to American Amba?sador
Gerard, is as follows:
p. "The high-minded.suggestion made by
n ! the President of the United States of
? ! America in order to create a basis for
y the establishment of a lasting peace
,f has been received and considered by
f the imperial government in the friend^
ly spirit which was expressed in the
e i President's communication.
For Exchange of Views.
e j "The President points out that which
x he has at heart and leaves open the
y choice of road.
j "To the imperial government an Im^
mediate exchange of views seems to be
a the most appropriate road in order to
t reach the desired result.
"It bfgs, therefore, in the sense of
y *The declaration made on December 12,
which offered a hand for peace negotle
ations, to propose an immediate meeting
of delegates of the belligerent
states at a neutral place.
s Prevention of Future Wars.
r "The Imperial government is also of
the opinion that the great work of pred
venting future wars can be begun only
? after the end of the present struggle
of the nations,
d "It will, when this moment shall have
come, be ready with pleasure to collaborate
entirely with the United States
- in this exalted task."
~ ! The answer of the central powers cony
eludes with the usual diplomatic terms
! of politeness.
- I
? Official Comment Withheld.
>? Officials here are surprised that Germany's
answer to President Wilson's
peace note was given out in Berlin before
it reached this country in official
ft form. They pointed out that In sendn
ing his note. President Wilson allowed
two days between the time of its dispatch
and making it public, that it
" might first reach the German govern -
ment.
s In the absence of an official reply,
- formal comment was withheld at the
ri White House and /the State Department.
I { The direct proposal for a conference of
i. delegates at a neutral place was reI
j garded as a further step in Germany's
e j proposal, although officials considered it
i as having been definitely forecast in the
t 1 first proffer. Such a formal offer has
I i repeatedly been forecast by authorized
1 statements at the German embassy here,
where the opinion freely has been exf
pressed that if delegates once could be
i gathered around a table for the purpose
- of discussing peace the result surely
i would be an arrangement of terms.
Some Conflict Is Seen.
The Berlin dispatches containing the
r German reply were read by President
I ori/l Soi'i-ftan- T .i! nsinc with thft
5 J greatest interest. Some officials who
f j compared the ?et?Iy with President Wil"
j son's no.*- protessed to see some conflict
i between the German statement that the
. i work of securing the future peace of the
i world should be delayed umil the e:id ?u'
: ! the present struggle, while others we-c
j of the opinion that it was n<>t entirely
; j out of harmony with some of the statt intents
in the American communication.
* | President Wilson's purpose has been
i I expressed repeatedly as making for the
' ! preventing of future wars as a part of
the settlement of the present conflict.
but admittedly that is a subject broad
enough to admit of some variation
i when it comes to final consideration.
This afternoon the official text of the
note had not been received at the State
, Department. Count von Bernstorff, the
German ambassador, had gone to New
York, and, so far as could be learned,
the German embassy's only information
was in the Associated Press dispatches.
The unofficial text of Germany's reply
did not get before the cabinet because
the Tuesday meeting was suddenly abandoned
a few minutes before the secretaries
were due at the White House.
Proposed Negotiations "Forthwith.'*
Germany, in a note,dated December
12, transmitted throufcn neutral nations,
stated that "prompted by the desire
to avoid further bloodshed and mako
an end to the atrocities of war, the
fbui allied (central) powers propose to
enter forthwith Into peace negotiation*
with the hostile nations."
The note stated that such negotiations
should have for their object a guarantee
of the existence of the honor and
liberty of evolutions for their nations.
The governments of Vienna. Constantinople
and Sofia transmitted identical
notes, and also communicated with the
holy see. No specific mention was made
at that time for a meeting of representatives
of the belligerent nations,
nor did Germany or her allies give an
indication of the terms upon which j
they would consent to a cessation of
hostilities
