ONA KEPUBLICAN
AN INDEPENDENT PROGRESSIVE JOURNAL
TWENTY-SEVENTH YEAR
10 PAGES
PHOENIX, ARIZONA, TUESDAY MORNING, DECEMBER 26, 1916
10 PAGES
VOL. XXVII., NO. 221
MUM
m YEAR
SEITI ESTIMATES SHI
TIT PEAK OF PROSPERITY IS
REACHED IN RAIL OPERATIONS
WASHINGTON, Dec, 25. More than one billion
dollars not income from operations was made by the rail
roads of the country during the year now closing. The
1 ni, go total is the peak olr prosperity in railroad operations,
and stands more than one-third higher than the total of
lf)13. hitherto the banner year.
Statistics gathered by the interstate commerce com
mission complete for nine months and made the basis for
calculation for the entire year, indicate that the total net
income from operations will be approximately, 1,0!)S,(XM),-
000. For the first nine mouths of the year, complete re-J
turns show sTSr,-5S,2t.iG. Even this does not represent the
full amount, as roads whose income is less than $1,000,000
are not included.
The estimate $1,098,000,000 is regarded by offici
als as conservative. It makes no allowance for normal
increase in business during the last three months of the
year, returns for which are unavailable, but places the
income for October, November and December at the same
figures as for July, August and September. There is no
question, officials say, but that there will be an increase;
the only doubt is as to its size.
Ar.nlvsis of Hie returns fur the first I
nine months shows a startling inert
Irom January to September, amount
to more than 62 per cent. thus, net
income in January, St4.M5,286, raj
mounted to $10",!ilO,M4 in September,
an increase of nearly $-13,'.i'Hj,uoo.
For the first nine months of the year
tha commission's figures show that the
railroads collected $2.465,S2,647 from
all sources of operation, the chief items
of which were as follows:
Freight. $I,S7.i,lil9,!iS0; passenger
traffic, $.-22.1i:3,07: mails, $45.35.S.6t9;
from express companies, $t;.i.09,174;
incidentals dinine and buffet car ser- was the quietest Great llritain has ever
vice, operation of hotels and restaur- known. Ktonomy was the watchword
ants, sale of venling privileges en among the upper classes geneiallv.
trains and at stations, parcel rooms at - Travel was unprecedently small he
sitations, demurrage, storage of freight i , aus, the newspajwrs and the goveni
and baggape, telegraph and telephone ;ment appealed to civilians to stay home
wires leased to other companies, oper- j ln,t give tn;. trains for the gdlditvs
alion of grain elevators, etc. $i;0.414,-; ,,n Ieavt, A maioritv of the civilian
&!". and aK other transportation revelers appealed to be mvnition
charges, $7G,7.6ll. The last item em- ; wurkers and their families,
braced sleeping and parlor car ser- Soldiers ever -where were entertained
vice; freight on milk, which was vir- liberally. The hospitals were decorated
tual'y as express service; switchtntc ;aml suppHed with dinners and presents
charges and the operation of special ; for the patients. Private soldier:? res
trains. . , t Iv received more attention than officers
This total, using the first .nine in the hos,)itals Theatrical and music
xiioic.ns as a. oasis, win icuui o,uvv,- ;
C4D.502 when the year closes, officials
estimate, and without doubt will
CX- I
LffU it. icvtri uciuic in lilc lll.-?l.i.'l hi i :
railioid operations have the roads had
so great a grors income. . .
expenses nae not Kepi
tne rapiu rise in receipts, aunougii
thev have increased measurably. From
a total of $lS2.8i! 1,269, in January, ex
penses had increased to $203. 235. 394 in
September, approximately 11 per cent.
During that period receipts had in
creased from $Lti:J,05t.:i06 to S324.954,
201, approximately 25 per cent. The
chief items of expense for the nine
months' period for which returns are
available are as follows:
Maintenance of way, $j2U. I u (.:;
of equipment S441 750 - I
tation, $S5S,973,536; 'traf-;
maintenance
Oriy ; transpor
fie, $4fi. . 9.422: miscellaneous opera
tions, $19,904,769; general expenses, in
cluding administration, $61.996,42!s. All
operating expenses totalled $1,741,160,
022. On the same basis the year's ex
penses will approximate $2,346,066 990,
leaving net revenue from operations
$1,254,573,512. From the last figure,
however, must be deducted the rail
road's annual tax bill, approximately
$155,625,546 and bad debts down on
the hooks as uncollectable revenue
approximating $965,928, a total of
$156,591,474.
About 230,000 miles of railroad were
in operation during the year. In the
first months the total fell below 230,
OUO: during the latter part of the year
it exceded 230,000. Csinc 230 000 s
an average, returns show that for every
mile of road operated in me o"ni
TOT DISCOK TRAGEDY IN HIS
H01E 0 CHRISTMAS MORNING
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
MINDEN, La, Dec. 25. Neigh
bor summoned by a half dresed
little boy of seven, ran to the homo
of John N. Reeves near here early
today to find that murderers had
turned the house into a slaughter
pen. Reeves and his wifs woro
de-d the man's skull crushed by an
axe and tho woman w.ith a bullet
hole through her head. An eleven-year-old
boy, still clutchinci in his
arms his f ir'teen-months-old broth
er, and another of five, were bat
tered and chopped from axe
st-""e.
The children were carried to a
hospital at Shreveport where tho
oldest died. The brother, who gave
the alarm, escaped becauso he was
sleeping in the attic. He had come
down early in the morning to look
for his Christmas pre?ents when he
saw what sent him flyinq terror
stricken to the rent farm house.
A tool chest in which Reeves is
said to have boasted that he kept
$4 000 was found broken open, near
a table on which the parents had
nlaced an array of simple presents
before retiring Christmas eve.
I Quiet Christmas
For Britain, With
Economy First
"epLblican A. P. Leased Wire
LONDON. Dec. 25. Excent in the
camps and hospitals this Christmas
u,.ii nr-o trn vp their services fir var-
i ious kinds i r entertainments.
Th (l;,v in 1 omlon iva Mho Rtinrlnv
in itc ,11, lot n If li, ,i i iVi IhA nr ni-irml
..tr(,ets were'full of khaki-clad men'and
many sailors were about. The restricted
hours for public houses reduced the
I merry making which usually attends
English holidays. The hotels and res
tauiants were filled with patrons but
tho new regulations barred elaborate
dinners.
the railroads will receive this year
approximately $15,655 in gross receipts,
and a net income of $4,774, or a little
more than 30 per cent of the gross.
Compared with previous earnings.
net income for 1916 shows an increase
of more than 52 per cent over the
nscai year oi uis, ;ij per ccni uvn
1914. and 34 tier cent over 1913.
Wide divergence in receipts among
the roads of various sections is dis
closed. The overburdened railroads of
the east have skimmed the cream of
the traffic. The congestion at (astern
seaports and on almost every eastern
road has spelled, in glutted sidings
and slow moving traffic, a flood of
revenue the like of which was un
dreamed of even a year ago. For
every mile of the 59,200 in the eastern
group, more than $60,000 has been re
ceived in revenue and every mile has
earned a net increase of nearly $5,900.
While the usual eastward trend of
traffic, the great dt-mand of nations at
war, and the location of most of the
country's factories, munition and
(Continued on Page Six
Posses searched all through the
day for the murderers. Tonight
three heavily shackled negroes were
brouqht to the Minden jail. What
evidence there is against them has
not been disclosed.
American Crew Mystijied
At Ship's Strange Actions
TRepubbcan A. P. Leased Wire . The Sucrora, her officers said today,
NEW YORK, Dec. 25. The officers encountered the Faro just at dusk De
and crew of the American uteamer cember 23 about 60 miles south of Dia-
hucrosa. which arrived today from
i lux pan. Mexico, were mystified by the
peculiar actions of a vessel encountered
on the voyage, which they identified as
the Portuguese steamer Faro of Lis-
Ion, last reported leaving New Orleans
, December 18 for Newport News and
if-ibi altar. The Faro formerly was the ance. This time, the name "Faro, Lis
Galata, one of the German vessels in- bon." was distinf uished on her stern.
Itemed in Portuguese ports at the out- She steamed southeast without signal
j break of the war and later seized by the ling any message to explain her action,
i-oriuguese. r
Phoenix Fittingly Celebrates Natal Day of
4 &
SOUTHERN NEVADA IS
IN TOTAL DARKNESS
TOXOPAH. New, Dec. 25. I
Every town in Southern Nevada, I
which depends upon electricity
for lighting, has been dark since j
Sunday, due to a break in the j
power lines crossing tho White
mountains. Tonopah nnd Gold-
field were without heat, having 1
no power with which to operate
their oil burning furnaces. Mines
here and in Goh'field also were
closed. Eight miles of power
line are said to be down.
Bain, snow, sleet and wind, together t
with the first real cold of the season,
fell upon Arizona yesterday. In I'res
cott the initial snow oi the winter
made the scene Yule-like, and Tucson
and Bisbee each celebrated with blan
kets of the beautiful adding to the "at
mosphere" of Christmas.
Phoenix and Salt Kiver valley were
visited by rain and sleet yesterday,
and for a time a trace of snow was in
the air. The temperature drop was I
sudden but not excessive.
Strong wind early yesterday morning
wrought some damage among tlimsy
signs and awnings and the branches of.
irees. llie lain oei nit? niifj muni
freaky sun
SPREADS SSI
mo flDi7nMA:
um.ii iiiiiLuiiin
uu.te general and of sufficient depth mounted troops, with the co
o elimina e tae dust evd, of which f artj carri.,i a strong
here has been so much complaint of ! sitlnnat Ma(tha:i,;a, UvPnty mik.s
distant from El Arish, which was cap
Snowball in ' I u,red on Thursday. In complete re-
Tl-CSON. Dec. 25.-Like a child's ! P- y" V$rm?S' "l
...... - - ... . t ...i.:.- .i don. show that Uio prisoners were
tt'aa laid over Tucson's Cnstmas morn
ing, by evening had become a cheap
thing of mud and water, and the sky
and temperature gave no indication
that the storm was not what it seemed,
a freakish bit of weather. It was Tuc
son's first white Christmas In thirty
two years. The temperature tonight
is rising and tha stars are oft again.
Down East Style jity- The same is true generally of the
RISP.EE, Dec. 25. -Christmas revel- Austro-ltalian theater except for the
ers celebrated in "down east" style' 'uban front, where even such opera -here
today in six inches of snow, the;tifns have been nrevented by mist,
first of the season, which fell during I Two British destroyers have been
last night and this morning. The sunk In a collision in the .North sea.
snow was preceded by a short sleet , Fifty-five officers and men were lost.
which decked the city and mountains
in a maze of glistening crystals. A
fieeze tonight brought out hundreds
of sleighing parties.
Prescott Shivers
PRESCOTT, Dec. 25. Prescott
awoke early Sunday morning to find
the ground covered with a white 'blan
ket, the first snow of the winter. It
fell in fine flakes intermittently
throughout the day, but the real storm
did not commence until shortly before
mionigni, wnen me wina came up una
orougni witn it neavier nanes oi snow 'wnicn niiious v um .n... 3
which cruelly beat against the faces! will bring victory to the entente allied
of those who ventured out at this late Icause.
hour. The soldiers from overseas, the ca-
The snow continued tn f:ill tbronpb- I nfi .linns Australians. New Zealanders
out Christmas day until about 5 o'clock,
when the clouds cleared away and left
the streets and sidewalks covered!
with a blanket eighteen inches deep.
At the beginning of the storm the tem
perature was warm, but toward night
lall the thermometer began to drop.
At 9 o'clock tonight it was twenty
four degrees and is steadily dropping.
I
All Over Coconino
ELACSTAFK. I'ec. 25. The firs:
snow of the winter began falling' early
Sundaji mornimr giving northern
ai i -'.na a w hite Christmas.
There is now about ZZ inches or
the ground and the indications are it
will continue to snow throughout the
night
The storm is general in these parts
and bids fair to eipial that of just a
year ago.
' i.vuvuin. iv III.." r.Ilff. alio
cattlemen as it insures both feed and
It a ti'n nfimn I. . I. r -... .1 '
water
Tho drifts in the ctts are deep and
the Santa Fo is experiencing some
difficulty in operating trains. Snow
pows are being used between here
and Williams
White in Douglas
DOFGLAS, Dec. 25. Today was a
"White Christmas' in spots, in Doug
las, snow remaining on the ground
long enough to give a semblance of
the real thing, then most of it melted
away. Tho weather tonight repre
sented ti dbtinet drop in tempera
ture. Utah Snow-Bound
SALT LAKK CITY, Dec. 25. Utah
and Salt Lake City are in the grin
of the worst storm in years. Steim
railroads are havin? a terrific time
(Continued on Pace Two)
1 mond Shoals lightship which is off
' Cape Hatteras. She steamed across the
Sucrosa's bow. then circling, crossed
astern and disappeared in the darkness,
Her name was not discernible then, but
the next day at noon, the same steamer
appeared and repeated ths nerftrm-
the Sucrosa's officers said.
iillTTII? jxjp
Lit ILL Mi
ARTILLERY IS
ALONE ACTIVE;
HIE FETED
Republican A. P. Leased Wire jer dark, to- pay tribute io the late Kent of California delivered addresses.
,. .. . , , . . Inez Milholland Iloisscvain and such a In a resolution unanimously adopted.
The third t hristmas of the European Jcr,nvd ,ripd t0 join (m.m Ul:!l the police President Wilson was urged to act for
war passed without much fighting on I had to bar the entrances. The hall and universal suffrage "so that by her
the iiritish and French fronts, where its galleries were packed before, the i death. Inez Milholland shill have ue
virtually only the artillery was active program beaan. i llvered from the sacrifice life her
'and the men were feasted and enter
tained as far as was compatible with
the sterner life of war.
Humania's first Christmass as a par-
ticipant in the war witnessed
i fighting on the Rumanian
heavy
flur.t
Ground was yielded by the Rumanians
at some points under the pressure of
the Germans, and north of the Buzeu-
. Rimn.k road a height was lost by the
I Russians,
In the northwest corner of Dobrudja
i nrovince. the sector to which the
Russo-Uumanian retreat has taken
them, the army of Meld Marshal von
Mackensen has begun to attack the
bridge head of Matehin. after Isakishe,
on the easier!! bank of the Danube, was
the evacuation of hakishe, the Rus-
. imi. v,a iU.,1imiti,,n ,f Ttilti-ln
captun d and a large riuantity of aims
and war material taken. Heavy cas
altles were suffered by the Turks.
The Russians claim to have inflicted
h"avy losses on the Austro-Germans
when the latter attempted to recapti.rv
heights occupied by the Russians on
Sunday in the wooded Carpathians.
Macedonia, except for an artillery
otrueele. Is void of momentous activ-
Good Cheer For Armies
WITH THE BRITISH ARMIES IN
FRANCE, Dec. 25. (via London)
(From a staff corresuondent of the As
ociated Press). Christmas has sent a
throb of eood cheer to all the British
armies in the battle lines of France,
and wherever a Fritish soldier ate his
Christmas dinner today, whether in the
front fire trenches or 'in the secluded
eacnriiv nf the reserve camps, enthus-
liastic toasts were offered to king and
empire ana io n. i ...... .., ...
land South Africa, drank somewhat
wistfully to the old folks at home but
soon
qi,"iv .inv Tnnii.iu v i
homesickness in the sturdy work of
u-nr for war. Ernri iiim ov-ic. ...in.,..
went forward today as relentlessly as
yesterdav. and as it will tomorrow.
The Christmas carols, which rose up
from all parts of the world, were not
far reaching enough this year to muffle
the roikr of angry guns or shut out the
n-eaf :ng sone- of flying shells.
It was a Christmas of bounteous
plentv alone the Fritish front and the
soldiers in the field were joyously im
mune from the three course dinners
r.rescribed for the iiritish isles. Each
individual company of the vast army
organization had a jubilant Christmas
spread and there was much rivalry in
(Continued on Page Two"
If t
I V
n
STEAMSHIP IS
SINKING AT SEA
NEW YORK, Doc. 25
The steamship Mary
land was reported sink
ing late tonijrht in lati
tude 39, longitude 67. A
wireless message picked
up here, said that the en
gine room was rapidly
being flooded, and asked
that aid be sent to the
vessel immediately.
The position given in
the wireless message is
about sixty miles south
east of Nantucket shoals
or 3G0 miles east-southeast
of New York.
Two steamships named
Maryland are listed in
the maritime register.
One of these is a British
vessel of 2,f)G2 tons, and
the other is an American
ship of 1,802 tons.
-
jZ?
HT1NG WA
MEMORIAL SERVICES
FOR MRS. BOSSEVAIN
f Republican A. P. Leased Wire
WASHINGTON, lie.- 2-i. .Meiaot il
services for a woman suffragist were
held in the capital today for the first
;time. Meiiibcrs of the Congressional
! 1'nlon for wunian suffrage gailieied in
Statuary Hall by permission of Speak-
Forming in the house office building,
the suffrage leaders, with girls carrying
banners of suffrage colors, and choir
boys, led ly Mi;s Alice Paul, national
chairman of the Congiessional c nion,
1 mn.l,i.l ,......- I, ,11....
iiicwiiit-u i iwB iu inc. oiiii. .vnnrj
i awl nine tL luiiiiicr tiiat .iis -uunoi-
land as a girl in 1910 in the first suf-
frage parade held in this country. Close
STRIVE TD HOLD
TRE TITLE OF
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
WASHINGTON, Dec. 25. The gov- !
ernment touay took its first formal ,
step through the federal reserve i
board, looking to the establisliment :
of financial connections a.broad
through which it hopes to strengthen
this position of the United States
.in c. world banker and to maintain i
tlj. American dollar as the standard i
jf exchange. '.
Vni'.er a, section of the federal re
serve nt t, the board autnoriztd the ;
appointment of the Hank of England 1
as a fore.gn correspondent of the
federal reserve bank of New York,
and announced thiit the eleven other
resene banks might participate in
the agency relations.
Connection with ether foreign gov
ernmental institutions, such a-s .he
Pank of France, is foreshadowed, offi
cials said, by today's action.
Th Pank of England is the first
foreign correspondent whose appoint
ment has been authorized since the
Ignition of the new financial sys
tern in this countrv.
In addition to being the first step
by the government toward going after
business, it is understood that author
ization of this appointment is a pait
of the general nlan for establishing
financial connections that .will
strengthen the I'nited Ftates as a
creditor nation in the .commercial
competition which probably wil' re
sult when the war closest and to
provide a're.'idy means to offset any
tendency on the part of foreign bank
ers to withdraw" the huze supply of
gold sent here during the war.
The action marks a radical de
parture from the previous lirnncial
nolicy of the country, inasmuch as
it places the government of the
United state's and Great llritain for
(Continued on Page Four)
I
OUST 8DRNE BY GALE SMOTHERS
IBS' CHRISTMAS CITIES
Republican A. P i-eased Wire
FICI.I HBADQCAIiTEKS PLNI-f
TIV'K EXPEDITION, Mexico, Dec. 2j.
Dust smothered ttw great Christmas j
celebration at the field headquarters i
cl the American punitive expedition,
i borne by a terrific gale . from the j
ijouthv. est, which drove officers into!
their quarters, and soldiers into their i
little shelters, gasping for ureath. j
Never in the memory of the oldest
inhabitants of this section had such !
a terrific wind prevailed. Swirling
down the chimneys of the adobe
lihacks, it sent tne occupants into
:r.e open air until the fires in th
irates could be extinguished, the
smoke cleared out and the shelter
rendered habitable. Tents were flat
tened, adobe house!, and offices un
roofed and kitchen fires blown away.
Because of the gale, every man riot
on guard duty was allowed to seek
shelter from the dust. Orderlies', sent
out with messages, became lost in the
limits of the camp and took-an hour
to walk a thousand yards. Travel
without dust goggles was impossible.
Hundreds of men are hatless who, not
realizing the force of the wind, ven
tured into the open only to seek their
headgear pwept away over the mesa.
Ti e Headquarters camp appeared as a
great blur of dust.
Although the da'' was cloudless,
hardly a ray of sunlight pierced the
enveloping dust.
Most of the officers were lighted
by gascline lamps and lanterns.
Th- wind rose Christmas eve. and
increased in violence steadily. By
I Idavligiit the music of the bands,
I which played carols instead of
I buglers sounding reveille, was heard
Ojbnly in snatches.
JZ?
0
1RD
.behind Miss Paul came Miss Ijicy
Burns of Brooklyn with a banner in-
scribed: "As He Died to Make Men Ho-
lv t xt lie lliu tn Talo 1aii I-'rufi "
oive spt-akers, Senator Sutherland of
1'tah; Miss Anne Martin of Nevada;
Rowland li. Mahany of New York and
Miss Maud Younger, and Mrs. William
' country women."
i As the audience was filing from the
hall to the strains of the ' Marsellaise"
' at the conclusion of the services, ai
spectator began singing the song loudly
I l. L. IT: I ...;..
in riencil. JUS IJOOllIiiift iurc icvn -
neraiea tnrougn uie ueserieu cuimo,
corridors till the last note
sounded by the orchestra.
had beer
RS TH
WESTMINSTER
01 PREACHES
FOR REAL PEACE
Republican A. P. Leased Wire I The Adams lobby had a real Christ
I.ON'DON, Dec. 25. The Dean of 'mas "'orld 'n its self last night. One
Westrmm ter, the Rieht Rev. Robert j thousand people crowded their way
I'dwarl Rv'e, preaching in the Abbey"110 Ine !"', Dimming over with
today, r,aid:
"It is our resolve. God helping us,
to overlnrcw military brigandage in
Europe, the rescue the liberties and
homes of the desolate countries, to
obtain fi r thee people reparation for
their wrongs and for humanity last
ing securities against a recurrence of
agirressive violence and crime.
"It is true that the president oi
the United States, after two years oi
study of the question and innumerable
notes, seems to believe that the object
of the two groups of b-jlligerents is ;
the same. He knows that Germany
refused arbitration, declined a con- '
fcrence and refused ever;' overture to1
prevent war. He knows that his own
countryr.ien have poured money like
water to assist the destitute and-outraged
remnants of the little Belgian '
people whose treaty rights were vio-'
lated and whose frontiers were in-,
vaded before war was declared. He
knows of the infraction of The Hague Armv and will be given out as ihi
cor.v ntions, which the American peo- aro needed.
pie have studiously promoted. j The crowd was so large that i
"He knows all the details of the or- .was impossible to get standing room,
ganized atrocities reported upon in ' "The balcony and even the on'' !
strict inquiries. He knows of the sink- ' porch were jammed with peoT le. T
ling of unarmed pasenger ships like
the Lusitania and Arabia, without ni" ,onS be remembered by 1
notice or warning. He knows of the i Present.
murder of Captain Fryatt, of the AdjJtant Snearor 0f tre R,p.,(;,
nocturnal deportations of Belgians and : Army acted as Master of Cerenior.i .
French into slavery.. He knows of and introduced the friend of t'ie ' id
Germ m connivance at Armenian mas- dies, "Old Santa Claus," bims 1:"
sarres. And yet he is of the opinion When this announcement was mad--,
that the nations who are leagued to ' horn toots, joyful veils and 'ppb'U"
disann this evil demoniac of national were spilled on the air. The l i -militarism
have the same aim in view generous-hearted "Santa" was the
as the perpetrators of -.hese historic most ropular present with the iuv n
crimes. . Up PP-.. jn a brief sncecTi he extenile.t
"President Wilson has; either in a ; to tho youngsters the season's gree t
(Continued on Page Six)
General J. J. Pershing: directed the
elfort of a score of orderlies to save
his living quarters from blowing
away. It was impossible to see more
than thiee feet in anv direction fop
hours at a time. Tvvo artillerymen
-.i. nij iu ii.v laiiiug ilUUUe WailS,
one had a leg broken, the' other
hip.
The Christmas eelcbr.ition in Mex
ico this year was to hi ve established
a record. It began with fireworks
on Christmas eve. and today opened
with carols played by the band as
the wind gathered force: But the
football games and other sports did
not proceed far.
All-America " Dinner For
President and Relatives
Republican A. P. Leased Wire!
WASHINGTON. Dec. 25. President
,t., i 11.- - .
W llson conc.uded his Christmas cele- ,
i.J, i?nr e , t,U1 t?OU8e n-ight
w ith a dinner at which he entertained
a large group of relatives and friends, j
It was an All Amenc.i dinner with ;
mlrIm,mt mily 1artlf,cf the,
country dent to the president n !
Christmas presents.
After spending the' morning- with
Josephine Cothran, his small grand
nieco, and other relatives about a
huge Christmas .tree in the- White
House library, the president took a
walk through the residential section
Our Savior
JZ?
jZ?
jZ?
CHRISTM
DINNERS ARE
E
Christmas parties and numberless
dinners, dances, both .public and pn
vato tnd a big celeoration by tne
Salvation Army, Apollo and .Musi
cians' clubs, together with sei vices in
several local churches, featured the
natal day of the Savior in Phoenix
yesterday. Through the good oil ices
or nait a score of organizations, evi
; reach, was aniplv nrovided tor
. ... . . 3 t . . '
; AIHOli? Hie nancd list pvenlno- u-n,-.-.
; r ip rollowiner iViiintrv fhin
tei
dance, (Kidmen Circle ball at the
; Patrick hall and informal affairs
at tho Rose Trea and Lhool of
i Music. Members of the AriKona club
'enjoyed a turkey dinner. Music was
i provided in restaurants, and special
. spreads Were arranged. At all the
I down town theaters and movie shops,
i special attention was given to holi
; day prograjns, and ew ry house was
i tilled to capax-ity.
' The festive season was not maried
by th-i rain of the morning, which
i rendered the air cold and the streets
' wet, but didn't cooi or dampen anv
, body's spirits to any alarming ex
; tent.
A l.-.rge number of the homes de
jcoratei gaily for Christmas, witn
reaths in the windows and many with
, trees In the naiiors.
tho spirit of the occasion. Yule tid-3
cneer made one grand sweep of the
assembly. The poor and needy who
; proved a real cosmopolitan gathering
gratefully accepted the help that was
offered by the big hearted Phoeni-
I cians.
The poor of the city were weH
cared for by the local people and
there were few whe suffered the
pangs of poverty yesterday. The
offerings of this vear far exceeded
tut- uuuaiiuiis or previous years.
Thj huge Christmas tree was bur
dened with presents, toys and goDdie
for the kiddies. The tree :s tlv
largest that has ever been brought
into the city. It was decorated wi:
beautiful Christmas trimmings a-y
illuminated with many colors.
Around the tree there wc-e tun
of foods, supplies and fuel. T' e i
tuals and food supplies will be ni ce
in the barracks of the Sahntir ,
1 atmosphere was one of haplne-i t r;
. ino-s.
j The next speaker was announced
and !he Master of Ceremonies com
mented that one nf the biggest-bear'-i
ed men in the city was the s"enk"r.
J. C- Adams. Mr. Adams for th
past ten years has always been n
'generous ccntributor to the poor -i" '
, 'needy and this fa"t must have bpn
known as it was imrnssihle f(-r tr
lAdnms to speak as-the roar of an
! platiso that came from the crowd
was long and loud. Mr. Adams tnVl
' what great work the Salvation Army
' is doing.
The Salvation Armv is responsihlo
for the care of many novertv-stricken
inhabitants of the city. The mem
bers went around peeking those W'n
were in need nnd brought joy in the
homes of those who have met with
calamity.
The kettles that were k"t
' hoilin? on the corners of the principal
' " ' tT "tic uini i-u
good, cause, each little iece nf -1.
that, was dropped into the kettles
brought a spark of happiness to
sown noov unfortunate.
W. C. Mills furnished a splendid
musical program with his S2-piee
chom The chorus 'deserves special
mention as it was really the hit of
the evening. They were enchored
(Continued on Page Two)
i of the city with Mrs. Wilson, and
-ji,j i,k .,i...o,.;.i.. ' . ' ,,' ' .
uiivinu in u uiu loiitioii oi. canov aiai
toys to small children in Virginia
who -wave to him daily when he goes
to golf
Th(. White House was deluged with
telegrams and letters from all over
the united States and from abroad
-iehi.. i . -
mas. Many of the messages spoke
of hire for pefrce in Europe. Be
cause congress is in recess the presi
dent will have few engagements dur
ing t'le remainder of the week.
The government departments re
mained ctosed throughout the day.
AS
IDANGES AND
IlL
