.Farmer
J
VOL. fe NO. 304
llffSS few IF ERENCE UMED
'OT'lDfllli'EEEIilllBIT' DEAD FROM GAS uuU iyu VUWW :
IISilH- NEUTRAL PtAE
:rnree Others Overcome By Smoke' in Fire in New
, 1 6nlam Hotel Winsted'Man, Thinking Com-
panion is Trapped iii Room, Enters Burning
v Building and Falls Victinu to FlamesH-Hun-
:.."'v'iv ''i'i a tx.' 'a .' ill!.. .' V
dred Guests Escape
I r New Britain, Conn., Dec. 26 One man was burned to death
and (wo men and a woman were overcome by smoHe,- ata fire in
tlie lotel iBronson, located at the corner of , Main and East Main
fstretsjlearly this morning.; ' v ' ' ' ' ' i : '
employed in this city Man thrilling, rescues were made by
policemen who routed room and either guided or
carried them through smolce-filled hallways. The fire was on
r the third floor. r:S:.;::.:' 1 ' .' ;; ;-
: '- y- firanafleld, employe' of the
hotel, wa! carried out of the building
unconscious by Fire ; Chief Robert M.
;?tamA AiiMjlmotbr was ued unsuc
cessfully for half an hour and she was
a then, taken to ' the)pspltalA;..yithout
having regained 1 her' senses. . John
- O'Brien and. Eli George, both lodgers,
were brought out of the building by
firemen iand' taken to the hospital, suf-
w fering. from . smoke inhalation, and
teuts on their, feet. - ; They : were in
scanty attire and received the injuries
to their feet while walking on broken
glass on the sidewalk. . : A - ),
P' - .McCarthy and O'Brien. wh6 wer'
friends, occupied adjoining rooms.
McCarthy - succeeded in escaping un-
aided but rushed back into the build-
zing to bring out O'Brien. " He was
fbunl dead while, the fire was" at its
1 heih burned almost beyond recogni-
WRECK HATTER'S
BRAND HEW GAR
Marauders' Steal $ Machine
aid Mow D6wn Stone
Wall But Escajpe. f
j Stepping into' the. Bridgeport . rail
road station : at-7:S0 Siinday night to
teiitSiui wSether.dDrlTndtf th. train
running on time. E.- Hanke,' a well
known Batter, 'S wlth'.'a ; store at J1052
2Haih street; -leif; Tlid automobile itt a
parking.'; place -jiortb" ot the station.
When he returned after, a few min
utes Hanke' was dumbfounded, to see
the - machirte speeding . north in Hous
atonic avenue with two ' pers6ns"ih
eideL . . J -
- He .ran at . top speed , down the In
cline and stopped a man with a car
in Housatohic avenue. Hastilr ; . re
lating, the circumstances, he jumped
into the passerby's machine -and was
about to start .in pursuit, rwheH -the
tire pt. the , machine blew out with a
- bang" and the .race was off.
: . Hahke . was forced to stand chag
.rined.: in.the--.middle of the avepue
whijfi he watched the red tail light of
theycar, a .brand . new H. A. L. ma
chine, ; seating seven persons fade
f rorti; view in the distance.
This policy were notified,' and they
went word to surrounding towns to be
on the .lookout for the stolen machine.
li cOtild easily, be identified. . . The car
, is painted, gray, with white " wire
; wheels, bearing ..the license number
6409 and, has been out of the factory
.only .three .weeks. Search was ; made
fbr.the, nrfachine but no trace of it
fouftd until last night, when residents
about Beardsleypark discovered the
machine hanging over the brink of
an embankment. - -
Its occupents had plunged the auto
through a stone wall, demolishing the
front springs and, crank case, coming
to ,a . stop on the edge of the bank.
They evidently escaped injury and
fled the scene. It is believed the ac-
, cident ; occurred following the theft
of the car Sunday night.
Hanke. staies.that he was unable to
tell-, whether the . persons whov stole
the machine were two men or ft man
fend a woman. th darkness of the
night .preventing a distinct' view, of
the occupents. The machine wa not
Insured. .
AT
EMBANKMENT
in Scanty-Attire.
i tion. ;
There were 104' guests in the hotel
and most ' of these made their ; escape
byiiusihg' rope f ire ' escapes:, kept in
eadh roomS,nd the metal escapes on
the sides of the -building, -Many be
came confused and were either car
ried or led out1 to safety," ; .
The fire is believed to have started
in the kitchen. . The flames shot up
a dumb waiter shaft, arid, n a .short
time the entire third, floor was on
fire. A passerby rang in anTalarm. So
many firemen - were occupied in di
recting the hose that it-was- necessary,
to call on' the . lie w spectators and po
licemen to help raise ladders against
the Wall.
The hotel is owned and conducted
by P. S. - McMahon,. well known in
theatrical k circles. .' The property loss
is estimated at about $10,000.
W
TURKEYS STARVE
MANKIND
WINES AND DINES
Animal Rescue League In
vestigates Cruelty to Ship-
-M load of Birds.
The cries of 200 turkeys, frantic
.with v thirst and " hunger, which had
.beett'.feffi-V aboard a lighter, of - the
Merchants' line at the foot ;of .Nichols
:stret,i without attention for three and
4 i half -djays. resulted in .persons call -ing
6n the Animal Rescue league to
demand succor for the fowl. "
Alexander Howell was sent , to the
scene and after boarding the lighter
made many 'ineffectual attempts, to
get. below deck. He, was finally forc
ed to crawl on his hands and knees
inside. " A half dozen of the fowl had
managed to break loose frprti the
crate and they were . running jriadly
about. . ; V
A pail of fresh water was' obtained
and the turkeys stood' drinking more
than . six, minutes at the bucket, flying
straight at Howell when he entered
with the pail, with such, violence that
they- almost knocked him Over. Their
state v W thirst, Howell states, may be
determined by the length of time they
stood continually drinking at the
pail. : ,:' v . , s- . -
A 100 pound bag of corn was
bought, . other pails procured and all
of the turkeys liberated from the
crA.tesan'd fed. An 'investigation
shOwea the turkeys .were' consigned
to Frank Ginaquimtc 608 Pembroke
street and arrived in this city, Friday,
from , New York.
As a result of, someone's neglectne
fowl were not delivered but lay aboard
the boat, which no one boarded since
its arrival until Monday. Prosecutor
Alexander DeLaney states that he will
issue warrants for the sea captain
or whoever was responsible for the
cruelty to the turkeys.
XMAS STAMPS SAL.E BIG.
Hartford. Dec; 2 6 It was said at
the office of the state tuberculosis
commission today that the sale of Red
Cross 1 Seals throughout Connecticut
would aggregate $35,000. This is
about $1,000 more than a year ago.
New Haven reports $5,000, about
12.000 .more than in 1915.
WHILE
BRIDGEPORT,
SERVED BANQUETS
TO THOUSANDS HERE
Reputation for Providing
Food for Great Gatherings
Became Widespread ' -
The lifeless body of ' Edward p.
Waters, colored, aged 38, known
throughout Connecticut as the,"Del
monico of Bridgeport," was found in
the bathroom of his residence, 958
North avenue, ; this morning, shortly
before 3 o'clock. , Gas was pouring
from an unlighted gas-jet in the room
where both window and doorway had
been closed. His body was fully
clothed. '
.. .Waters, formerly was butler in the
home of the late William J. Grippen,
From a small beginning in' the groc
ery business on Gregory street he had
succeeded f' Andrews, . the State street
caterer. , and b.uilt up a business
Which ' was known all over this state
and into New ifio'rkcity.. -v 'rzr?-rt:''
His- death came as a' sudden shock
to. the . cbirau nity Vin which he was
known as among the most charitable
6t nis race and so much mystery sur
rounds "the" means of his end that
Medical Examiner S. M. Garlick who
was called to view the body, has with
held his report until more full-particulars
are given by the family. ' i
1 'Dr.. Garlick has learned f rom A. S.
Kearneyi i a brother-in-law ,.- with
.Whom Waters and his wife lived in
the house, 958 North avenue, that the
family Were invited, to an entertain
ment, last night. . Waters, apparently
in: good health - and excellent spirits
declined- to leave the house butrec
ommend'ed that his wife accompany
the others; - , .'
Upon , their return home after mid
night, they found the lights through
Out, the house were burning brightly,
but an odor-: of gas permeated the
apartments. They traced the odor
to the bathroom. Though ;a danger
ous undertaking, the door was'-cau-tiously
opened and the body of
Waters was dimly seen stretched upon
the bathroom , floor. Windows were
opened and the ambulance summon
ed. Surgeon 'J. D. Deery who re
sponded to the call, said Waters had
been dead for mbre than an- hour.
Dr. , Garlick - is .. unable to say
whether death was accidental or ac
complished with suicidal intent No
letters have been delivered to the ex
aminer that "would indicate suicide
and members of the family declare
that 'cause, for such an act islacking.
Over 25 years ago, Waters who was
born in Rockingham County, Va.,
came to Bridgeport as butler to the
late .William J. Grippen. He served
fqr'a number of' years but finally left
service with the family to open a
small grocery store on Gregory street.
He prospered and with the retire
ment of . Andrews, the caterer, began
catering to banquets, lodges and oth
(Continued on Page 4)
BLAZE IN GOAL
POCKET BURNS
TONS OF FUEL
Spectacular Fire, Fanned by
Wind, Gives Fighters a
Battle.
A spectacular fire which threatened
for a time to assume a'armlng pro
portions owing to tH,e high wind, part
ly destroyed . the dock , of the Bridge
port Gas oompany at the foot of
Spruce street, at 6:45 this morning
and consumed an immense quantity of
coal. ' . ' .- - '
The blaze started in one of the coal
pockets as a result of spontaneous,
combustion and soon spread to, the
dock. The strong wind blowing un
der the fire from'' the water created a
draft which caused the blaze to spread
to the dock . Under direction of Chief
Daniel E, Johnson, the flames were
soon . brought under control and dan
ger averted. -. ; . ..
THE WEATHKK
Connecticut:. Cloudy, tonight and
Wednesday, probably snow; slightly
warmer Wednesday. Moderate north
east to east winds, increasing by Wed
nesday morning.
CONN.f TUESDAY, DEC.
Berlin, Dec. 26
which he asked that the belligerent nations state the aims for which they are fighting, Germany, and
her allies today proposed that a conference of all the belligerents be held immediately in a neutral
''city.. - . , . ' ; - r ' .
S The task of preventing future wars can be begun only after the end of the present struggle,
the reply says. 7 . . .
The note' was Sanded" to Ambassador James W. Gerard today. It embodies the reply of
Germany, Austria-Hungary, Bulgaria and Turkey. . ,
STRONG FRANCO-BRITISH
NAVAL FORGE MOBILIZED
ON THIS SIDE
,4.:
-Boston, . Dec.; 2.-r-The presence ' on
this side of the Atlantic of a formida
ble fleet of allied" warships , was indi
cated deflntelV-'today. The vessels are
'.known officially as commerce protec
tors.' They are heavily armed and
disguised. Their exact disposition is
not revealed hut the arrival recently
in . American ' waters . of this newest
unit of the ' British and French ad
miralties is made known from a source
th- hardly can be mistaken. .
For some days skippers of .trans
Atlantic and coastwise steamers have
been bringing to New -England ports
reports of strange appearing craft that
were making their way westward.
They made "no reply to signals and
could not be approached. They
steered a vagrant course and were de
scribed variously as merchantmen,
transports, light cruisers and even of
submarines. Pieced together, 'these
reports fitted in with the suspicion
now apparently confirmed, by shipping
men. " ' . ,
The qommerce protectors are de
scribed as large and powerful but cap
able of fair speed. They were de
Berlin. Dec. 26 Two allied natrol
boats were sunk and four other allied
warships were damaged in the recent
naval engagement in the Strait: of Ot
ranto, the Austrian Admiralty an
nounces. The Austrian destroyers
were hit.
The Austrian announcement .fol
lows: j
"On the night of Dec. 22-23, four
Austro-Hungarlan destroyers made a
raid x in the Otranto Strait and after
an engagement sank two .armed pa
trol boats. On their way 'back at least
six hostile destroyers ' of greater size
and , speed, evidently &t the Indomito
class blocked ' their way. A violent
combat with guns ensued. One hos
tile destroyer was set on fire and three
others were hitseveral times at short
No Word Received
From Carranza on
Border Agreement
New York, Dec. 26. The Mexican
members o$ the joint Mexican com
mission had received no word from
General Carranza regarding the Amer-
! ican communication pp to 1:15 o'clock
this afternoon, it was stated here to
day by Luis Cabrera, chairman of the
Mexican delegation.
Mr. Cabrera" was in conference
throughout the day with his associates.
Commissioners Pani and Bonillas. He
described the meeting as one at. which
they "were discusiing important mat
ters," but further than that he would
say only that nothing had been de
cided, v '
ASSEMBL.YMEN TO FEAST
.. Bridgeport's delegation in the next
General Assembly have received invi
tation to be the guests of the Hartford
county delegation at a banquet to be
held in the ' Hartford club Thursday
evening.
Si Ji Mill
BUM i
mm
28, 1916
By Wireless to Sayville
OF OCEAN
r; - ' -
signed, it is said, to meet, the Gerniah
U-boat danger and in anticipation of
an attempted . raid . off the Canadian
coast similar to that' made by the U
53 off Nantucket on Oct 8. At that
time' shipping men figured that there
was not an allied warship within five
hundred miles of the spot that Cap
tain Hans Rose deliberately, selected
in which to operate. The British Ad-
; miralty, it is said, . determined to
make impossible 'another, such, raid
and the fleet of commerce , protectors
was the fruition, of the plan then for
mulated. . . ' - . ; , . . .
The arrival of the. disguised, war
ships was followed almost . immedi-
! ately with the announcement by . the
British premier Lloyd , George, of the
i plan for the nationalizing, of British
I shipping. It is s understood that , the
I commerce protectors will not only lie
in wait for . submarines at strategic
points but that they have been pro
vided in sufficient number to act as
convoys for , merchant vessels
throughout thezones in which Isub
marines would b"e most likely to operate.
mmm fl
range. ' The enemy's sea ' forces,
among which was one vessel of more
powerful and unknown . type, were
routed.
, One of our destroyers was hit
twice in the funnel and another was
hit in the superstructure., .One man
was killed. There were no wound
ed." . . . .
An official statement issued at Rome
yesterday said :
"Several enemy ships attacked our
patrol vessels in Otranto channel on
the night of De 23. French and
Italian warships came to the rescue
and the. enemy fled under cover of
darkness after a sharp engagement.
What damage he suffered is un
known." '
Newsdealer Gains
By Being Honest I
Walter Schneider, local agent for
the Hearst newspapers, is beaming
upon all humanity today for he dis
covered one instance where he lost
no money by being honest but actually
gained financially. Last Saturday he
found an expensive looking purse
which contained $20 and some cardsl
The address on the cards showed
that the owner lived in New Yorkv
Schneider sent the purse to the ad
dress given and yesterday an automo
bile stopped at his home. The chauf feur
came to the door, asked .' for
Mr. Schneider and handed the. sur
prised newsdealer $25 with the com
pliments of his employer. Later ftn
thye day Mr. Schneider receeived a
special delivery letter from ' tfte
woman who had lost the purse in
which she said she was glad to find
that honesty was not yet extinct. She
said the purse was a gift from her
husband and she was overjoyed to get
it back. j
Replying: to President
The text of the note follows :
The high-minded suggestion made by the President .of the
United States in America in order to create a basis for the es
tablishment' of a lasting peace, has been received and consider
ed by the Impepial governmentin the friendly spirit whicn was
expressed in the President's communication.
y "The President points out that which he has at heart arid
leaves open the choice of road. .. - , .,.
"To the Imperial government an immediate exchange, of
views seems to be the most appropriate road in oroer to .reach
tljesirei results." " j ' t? J'-r.
" T'egtherefore.ln the sense ot ' the dlapWd.mei"pp,''
Dec..l12r which pffered a hand for peace negotiations,' 16 propose
an immediate meeting of delegates of the belligerent States at a
neutral placev , - : -,'
"The-Imperial government is also of the opinion-that, the
great work of preventing future wars can be begun only after
the end of the present struggle of the nations. : , .: .... rT;
"It will, when this moment shall have come, be ready with
pleasufe to collaborate entirely with the United States in this
exalted' task." . - , v
TJie answer of the central powers concludes with the usual
diplomatic terms or politeness.
Allies to Decide
(Peace Terms, Says
N ; ' Petrograd Paper
Petrograd, Sunday, via, London,
Dec. 26 (Delayed) Discussing the
forthcoming reply to the peace pro
nosals. the Rech says:
"The official reply cannot state that p-nd therefore there are no , guaranr
the entente allies aim to bring the tees for the future in national rela
Turkish Empire to an end in order tions which will free the world from
to remove forever German aims of the oppression of militarism."
world dominion or that the allies will j The Rech says that even if Germany
demand reorganization of Austria- should make the unexpected conces
Hungary in order to make impossible . sion of relinquishing territorial gain
the fulfillment of German ideas re-! and restoring ante-bellum conditions,
garding central, Europe which form the 'aims of the allies would not be
the first step of their program for fulfilled and that the only terms ac
world power. ceptable to Rifbsia would be those dic-
"Diplomacy cannot, suggest thee'tated by herself. and her allies.
RADIO CALLS FOR
SEND MANY SHIPS TO
OF LINER
New York. Dec. 26 The coastwise
steamship City or Savannah and the
coastguard cutter Acushnet today
hurried to the " assistance of the
steamship Maryland which shortly
after midnight sent out messages
stating that she was sinking and ask
ing Immediate aid. : The Maryland
gaveher position as Lat. 39, Longi
tude 67, or about 180 miles east or
Sandy, Hook. "
V The City of Savannah was160 miles
,outside the position given by the
Maryland when .the call for -aid was
received. The Acushnet ' was at
Woods Hole, Mass., when v ordered to
proceed to the -assistance of the
Maryland. . The coastguardcutter Mo
hawk left Sandy yHook when the ap
peal for help was received but was
later ordered to return in view of the
proximnity to the Maryland or other
vessels enroute to her aid. Since the
first call for "help which was picked
by wireless, stations in the city and
at the naval radio station at Newport,
R. I., no ' .further word was received
from the Maryland and it was believ
ed that the' vessel's wireless had been
put out of commission owing to the
flooding of the engine-room and the
consequent lack of power.
Two steamships named Maryland
are listed in the maritime register, one
a British vessel of 2,962 tons and the
other an American of 1,892 tons. It
is believed that the latter "is the vessel
iri distress off the coast.
The Maryland sailed from Phila
delphia last Saturday for London. She
PRICE TWO CENTS
Wilson's recent note, in
terms until then allies have laid :the
firm foundation for success of their
present military tasks. But by -saying
less diplomacy would acknowledge
a result of : the- war unsuccessful to
the allies. ' i
"Italy has not occupied Trieste,
France has not created a firm fron
tier along the Rhine, Eiigland has hot
. destroyed the German fleet nor have
j the allies as a. whole succeeded in
crippling the German land forciSif
ASSISTANCE
REPORTED SINKING
Tis owned by the Crew Levick Co., of
Philadelphia, and for years -yaa en
gaged tn trade - on the Great Lakes
Sh i a steel vessel. Her crew num
bers 3 4 men.- There are ho passen
gers. The Maryland has a net ton
nage of 1;892. ' -
Three Schooners Call
For Help in Big Gale
Nantucket, Mass., Dec .26 Th
schooner Roger Drury -was. sunk-ott
Great Point, the schooner Daniel Mc
Loud was stranden on the northern
end of the Rip off the Point and the
British schooner Ravbla. was wrecked
on the southern end of the Rip, In a
northwest gale today. After the coast
guardsmen of the Ooskata station ha
been assured of the safety of all. those
aboard the three vessels, 'they were
called on- to watch another vessel
which was dragging her airchors a.nd
in danger of striking the Rip.
The Roger Drury was engaged in the
coastwise trade, between New York
and St. Johns, N. B. Her crew, in a
small boat, landed near the lighthouse,
where they found shelter. '.
It was soon ' after daybreak when
the 'Ravola was forced ' onto ..the, Rip.
Captain Sabine and. his four, men were'
taken oft in the Coskata boat. When
the Daniel McLoud . ; stranded, h'er ,
crew also was brought ashore in the
lifeboat.
(Continued on Page O
RESCUE
7 ' -
