i ,
New York, Dec. 26.Sllver, 74 3-4c; vl I M ll lilfy I L im(' 1 1 1 H 1 1 1.1 WEATHER Utah: Generally Fair
lead, $7.507.62; -spelter, $10.00; . . I kv'B WW 'T ' Tonight and Wednesday Except Snow IH
copper, $30.0032.50. In. North and Central Portion; Not So jH
J ' Cold In Southwest Portion. '
FEAREESS, INDEPENDENT. PROGRE SSIYE NEWSPAPER " ' ' .. . H
I! Forty.Slxth Year-No. 319. Price Five CentB. OGDEN CITY, UTAH, ' TUESDAY EVENING, DECEMBER 26, 1916. Entered as Second-Class Matter at th e Postofflce, Ogdon, Utah, 'M
Germany Proposes Immediate I
Meeting for Peace Discussion I
r Berlin, Dec. 26, by wireless to Sayville. Germany and her allies Austria-Hungary, Bulgaria and Turkey today replied to the note ofWesident Wilson in which he . I
asked that the belligerent nations state the aims for which they were fighting. The proposal is made by the Central Powers that a conference of the delegates of all the bel- I
Fents be held immediately in a neutral city. The task of preventing future wars, the official statement says, can be begun only after the end of the present struggle. H
Neutral Nations Expected
! to Support the Peace Moye
! Started by United States
, Holland, Spain, the Scandinavian Countries and the Pope May Act in
Near Future-Switzerland for Peace President Wilson Commended
by Many Nations and Decision of Various Govern
ments Will Be Given Out Soon.
Berlin, Dec. 26, by Trireless to Say
ville. The text of Germany's answer
lo President Wilson's note was trans
mitted today to James W. Gerard, the
American ambassador.
The answer, which alao contains
the reply of Austria-Hungary, Bul
garia and Turkey says:
"The high-minded suggestion made
by the president of the United States
of America in order to create a basis
for the establishment of a lasting
peace has been received and consid
ered by the imperial government in
the friendly spirit which was expres
sed in the president's communication.
"The president points out that
-which he has at heart and leaves
A: open the choice of road.
1 "To the imperial government an im
mediate exchange' of views seems to
be the most appropriate road in order
to reach the desired result
Immediate Meeting Proposed.
"It begs therefore in the sense of
the declaration made on December 12
which offered a hand for peace nego-
nations, to propose an imuicuia
meeting of delegates of the belllger-1
I cnt states at a neutral place.
I "The imperial government is also
I of the opinion that the great work of
I preventing fuither wars can be be
I gun only after the end of the present
I struggle of the nations.
"It will, when this moment shall
I have come, be ready with pleasure
H to collaborate entirely with the Unit
m; ed States in this exalted task."
H The answer of the central powers
H concludes with the usual diplomatic
H terms of politeness.
H Germany's Answer a Surprise.
H Washington, Dec. 26. Officials here
H nre surprised that Germany's answer
iH to President Wilson's peace note was
H given out in Berlin before it reached
this country in official form. They
pointed out that in sending his note,
H allowed two days between the time of
H his despatch and making It public that
H it might first reach the German gov
Hl ernment. .
In the absence of an official repij,
ff$ formal comment was with held at the
k White House and the state depart-
a ment. The direct proposal for a con-
M ference of delegation of a neutral
K- place was regarded as a further step
In Germany's proposal, although offi
cials considered it as having been
i definitely forecast in the first proffer.
F . Such a formal offer has repeatedly
been mentioned in authorized state
" ments at the German embassy hero
'v- i where the opinion has been freely ex.
W- pressed that if the delegates once could
r ;J bo gathered around a table for the
' 1 purpose of discussing peace the result
; would surely be an arrangement of
'" terms. . . . n
' 1 The Berlin despatches containing
"J the German reply were read by Presi
dent Wildon and Secretary Lansing
; with the greatest interest. Some offi
cials who compared the reply with
'ii President Wilson's note professed to
W see some conflict bctwen the German
J' -.-i , statement that the work of securing
& 4 the future peace of the wor d would
J?;a : bo delayed until the end of the pres.
5' : ent struggle while others were of the
11 opinion that it was not entirely out of
?o; v : ' harmony.
3K
8:!' Washington, Dec. 2G.-Tndications
accumulated in official quarters heie
25-11 today that the action of Switzerland in
JM supporting the recent peace move ot
, the United States may be followed
W 5 ; by similar action on the part of other
European neutrals. ,,;
&l ; Holland, Spain, the Scandinavian
r.':'3 countries and the pope, it was ; said,
V-i ! are expected to take some action in
M . th?)re Pauf RRter, the Swiss minis.
S i ; ter will see President Wilson within
1 X few davs to discuss tho peace sltua.
21 Uon lie called at the White House
SN today to gather information on how the
2 Swiss pfneo note had been received
4 iu this country in order to send a re
!Kvl Port to his government.
ftr'H Switzerland for Peace.
Dr. Ritter was concerned ovox news
Sv4f- Paper reports that the action of th
-3 Swiss government was construed a,
i. ' aunnort for the cause of the centra
ft -if Bowers. He told Secretary Tumult:
'S 1 the action of his government was sole
(ft I ly in the Interest of peace
' I Messages from individuals and oi
ganizations in Holland, and other Eu
ropean nations continued to arrive at
the White House today in large num.
bers. All commended the president
for his recent note and indicated that
strong pressure was being brought on
the governments of European neutrals
to take action.
While the United States will con
tinue to act alone, supporting action
by other neutral powers, it is said,
will be welcomed by President Wilson.
Spanish Ambassador Riano confer
red with Secretary Riauo today but
both officials refused to discuss tho
meeting beyond saying that the am
bassador sought further information
as to the peace situation. Spain. Mr.
Jliauo said, had, not yet, sent a reply
to President Wilson's note and there
has been no indication yet as to
whether she would follow Switzer
land, as the third intermediary en
trusted with the forwarding of the
central powers proposals in endors
ing the president's action. Nor has
any word been received, it was said,
as to when the allies would reply to
these proposals.
oo
NOTE CAUSES AN
U1PW
Stocks Advance When Latest
Proposals From Germany
Are Received.
New York, Dec. 26. The publication
of the latest German proposals was
followed by a moderate increase in ac
tivity in the stock market today with
a gradual rise in pricse. The market
previously bad been extremely dull
and immediately preceding the publi
cation of the German communication
prices of important stocks were mid
way between the high and low of the
forenoon.
The rise that followed appeared to
be due to short covering more than
anything else. United States Steel ad
vanced 2 3-4 points from the low quo
tation of the morning.
WAR MOST BE
FOUGHT TO END
0
British Cabinet Minister's
Speech Advocates Continu-
ance of Hostilities.
Paris, Dec. 26, 1:15 a. m. In ad
dresses at the national congress of the
French Socialist party Arthur Hender
son, the British cabinet minister, and
G H Roberts, member of the British
parliament, both affirmed, amidst en
thusiastic cheers, that the war must be
fought out until full guarantees have
been obtained for a lasting peaco.
"In my opinion." said Mr. Hender
' son "if France and ourselves were to
enter into negotiations under existing
conditions, we should be nations In
1 bondage. Nothing less than that is the
price our enemies would exact for
peace today."
Emlle Vandervelde, the Belgian So
L clalist leader, said:
"Our comrades who have remained
in invaded Belgium support German
3 dominion with admirable firmness.
1 Nothing but encouragement reaches us
from them. So that it would seem that
the persons most hostile to war are
those farthest from It."
M Vandervelde also declared that
2 the struggle must be carried on until
B Belgium and Serbia are delivered and
1 Cacsarlsm is laid low."
V Have Reached Dangerous Period.
In hiB speech, Mr. Henderson said:
j ''In my opinion we have now reached
the most dangerous and difficult pe
riod of tho war. During the next few
months tho democracies of England
and France are going to be tested as
never before. Do not misunderstand
me. I do not mean that the stress and
strain of fighting in the field will be
more severe, although I do not Ignore
such a possibility. But the danger is
entirely of a different character.
"Our stupendous losses, our unpre
cedented sacrifices, our horror of war,
our love of "peace, may lead us to mor
gaging the future. With such awful
experiences we are apt to forget the
great moral, eternal principles and
ideals for which we entered the strug
gle. We are not only fighting a nega
tive action against material forces
which are highly organized, but-we are
engaged in a great conflict upon the
result of which depend our great
ideals. If we enter into negotiations
now, we do so' when Germany is not
repentant for her wrong doing and is
glorifying in the success of her mili
I tary efforts, in fact, in the victory of
Rerman imDerialism. In my opinion,
if France and ourselves were to en
ter into negotiations under existing
conditions with such a spirit we should
be nations in bondage. Nothing less
than that is the price which our enemy
would exact for peace today.
"I cannot tell you how many months
and what sacrifices stand between us
and victory, but I can tell you what
will be the rewards of victory if wc
are true to ourselves. We shall have
asserted the rights of nations, large
or small, to live their own lives un
disturbed by the ambitions of powerful
neighbors. We shall exact reparation
for wrong done them by this war as
will be a warning to aggressors for
all time to come. We iShall have laid
the foundation of that league of na
tions, beginning with those who have
fought and suffered at our side which
will deliver Europe and the world from
the terror of war.
Choice Between Untimely or Lasting
Peace.
"The choice today is between an un
timely peace with years and a few
months of suffering and a lasting
peace. Taking into consideration all
the consequences of our decision I say
as in August, 1914, both nations are
presented with the choice as between
honor and Infamy. Tho choice is more
sacred now, as the cause has been
sealed by the blood of our heroic dead.
Wc in Britain feel that to make peace
now, to think of peace at any time
with less than full indemnity for the
past and full security for the future
would be to desert our allies and be
tray tho hopes of freedom throughout
the world.
"We hate war. It is brutal; the ne
gation of everything for which wo
stand, herefore, we must prevent its
recurrence so far as is in our power.
We desire to see the democracies of
the world free to progress to their
highest ideals. To accomplish this we
must stand together for tho destruc
tion of militarism, the vindication of
national right and liberty, the punish
ment of national wrong. Be tho na
tions large or small, they must be
free."
COST OF MONKEYS
HASJONE UP
Washington, Dec. 26. Like food,
white paper and shoe prices, the cost
of monkeys has gono up, and It was
disclosed today that pathological ex
periments being conducted by the
public health Bervice are in danger of
being seriously hampered by scarcity
of available Simians. Recently the
service needed a dozen monkeys to he
Innoculated with disease germs m Its
hygienic laboratory, but could only
get six and had to pay ?18 each, al
though a little more than a year ago
thev were more plentiful at $8 a head.
South American monkeys arc used.
Officials attribute the scarcity to
the closing by the war of the worlds
principal wild animal market at Ham-
burg, Germany-
RUMANIAN FORCES
CAPTUREHEIGHTS
Make Daring Attack on Mol
davian Frontier and Re
gain Lost Position.
ENEMY a BOMBARDING
Intense Artillery Directed
Against Villages and High
Points by Teutonic
Allies.
Petrograd, Dec. 26 British Admir
alty Wireless Press, via London, 2:25
p. m. Recapture by Rumanian forces
of one of the heights they recently
lost in the fighting along the Molda
vian frontier is announced by the Avar
office today.
The statement reads:
"The onemy is bombarding with an
intense artillery fire the regions of
the villages of Planiaks, Manduff and
Gokalovsee forest. South of Brzezany
the enemy is directing his fire along
the heights occupied by us east of
the villages of Lipnicadolna and Svis
teiniki. "On tho Moldavian frontier in the
. valley of the river Kasino Rumanian
troops by a daring attack, regained
one of the heights lost by them yes
i terdavj- -
Teutons Take Prisoners.
Berlin, Dec. 26, by wireless to Say
ville. In Rumania five thousand five
hundred more prisoners have been
1 taken by the Teutonic allies, the war
I office announces.
The town of Filipechti on the rail
road between Buzeu and Brailia was
captured at the point of the bayonet.
Strongly entrenched Russian posi
tions on both sides of the village were
stormed, the statement says.
Violent Artillery Fighting.
Berlin, Dec. 26. By wireless to
Sayville. Army headquarters state
ment follows on the Macedonian front
operations:
"Macedonian front: Successful pa
trol advances were made by Bulgarian
infantry northwest of Monastir. In
the bend of the Cerna there has been
artillery fighting of unusual vio
lence." Russian Artillery Active.
Berlin, Dec. 26 By wireless to Say
ville. Regarding military operations
along the Russian front, today's state
ment by army headquarters says:
"Front of Prince Leopold: On the
lower Stokhod the Russian artillery
was more active than usual. North
west of Lutsk an enterprise conducted
by German detachments resulted in
the bringing in of sixteen prisoners."
Two Patrol Boats Sunk.
Berlin, Dec. 26. By wireless to Say
ville. Two allied patrol boats were
sunk and four other allied warships
were damaged In the recent naval en
gament in the Strait of Otranto, the
Austrian admiralty announces. Two
Austrian destroyers were hit.
Violent Naval Fight.
The Austrian announcement fol
lows: "On the night of December 22-23,
four Austro-Hungarian destroyers
made a raid in the Otranto strait
and after an engagement sunk two
armed patrol boats. On their way
back at least six hostile destroyers
of greater size and speed of the
Indomlto clas8 blocked their way. A
violent combat with guns ensued. One
hostile destroyer was set on fire and
three others were hit several times
at short range. The enemy's sea
forces, among which was one vessel
of a more powerful and unknown
type were routed.
"One of our destroyers was hit twice
in the funnel and another was hit in
the superstructure. One man was
killed. There wero no wounded."
Tho Indomlto class consists of ten
Italian destroyers, 239 feet long,
armed with one -1.7-inch gun and four
12-pounders.
The official account of this engage
ment, received last 'night, said two
French dostroyers and one Italian pa
trol boat were damaged slightly.
Franco-Belgian Front.
Berlin, Dec. 26. By wlrolcss to
Sayville. Today's army headquarters
statement regarding operations on tho
Franco-Belgian front Is a follows:
"Western front: In some 'sectors
of the Ypres front on both sides of
Las Bassee canal and west of Lens
the activity of the artillery increased.
Advances by strong British patrols
were repeatedly repulsed."
Many Ships Sunk.
Washington, Dec. 26. Lloyd's re
port in dispatches received by the
state department from London, tells
of the sinking of the Norwegian bark
Ansangar and the British steamere
BOMB FOR GOVERNOR SPRY
CONTAINED AN EXPLOSIVE
OF TREMENDOUS FORCE
Two ounces of nitro-glycerine,
enough to have blown Governor
Spry's home to bits, to have killed
every member of the family, and,
perhaps, to have destroyed other
homes in the vicinity, were contained
in tho two glass tubes of the Infernal
machine found in front of the gov-,
ernor's residence yesterday.
Such is the statement of Herman
Harms, state chemist, following an
investigation of the Instrument ot
death. The state chemist, in doubt
yesterday as to the composition of
the fluid within two tubes, today an
nounced that each contained an ounce
of the deadly explosive.
With a reward of 31,000 offered for
the man or men who placed an infernal-machine
at the residence of
Governor Spry, and ?500 reward
offered for any or all those in "any
way connected" with either tho at
tempts on the governor's life or that
of James E. Jennings, eyry police
officer and detective in Salt Lake city
today is searching for the perpetrator
of the Christmas outrages.
Six suspects were arrested yester
day. They are C. Eselius, Y. Eellus,
J. Eselius, Ed. Eselius, A. Erlckson
and Robert Erlckson.
It was at the Eselius' home that
Joseph Hillstrom, I. W. W. murder of
John G. Morrison, a grocer and his
son, J. Arling Morrison, was cap
'tured January 13, 1914. Hillstrom
committed the crime on January 10,
1 1914. Hillstronr was a Swede and it
was the interference of the Swedish
Istrar, Lincairn, Llangos and Murex,
not previously reported from other
sources.
oo
GARRANZA'S TIME
NEARING CLOSE
Unless Favorable Answer
Arrives Promptly, Negotia
tions With U. S. Will End.
COMMISSIONERS MEET
&
Counter Protocol Will Not Be
Substituted and Present
Agreement May Be
Rejected.
Washington, Dec. 26. Unless Gen
eral Carranza returns a favorable an
swer today to the last communication
made to his commissioners by the
American representatives a week ago
at Philadelphia, the negotiations will
come to an end.
The Mexican commissioners will
meet at New York today and if Car
ranza has sent to them his answer it
is expected Luis Cabrera, chairman of
the Mexican delegation will forward
it immediately to Secretary Lane,
chairman of the American section.
When tho joint Mexican-American
commission reconvened at Philadel
phia, Alberto J. Pani, the Mexican
commissioner who had carried the
protocol signed at Atlantic City to
Queretaro ior tho ratification of Gen
eral Carranza submitted a counter
proposition, it was in effect, a rejec
tion of the agreement entered into by
tho commissioners and tho substitu
tion of another protocol that had
been drafted by tho Mexican commis
sioners at the direction of Carranza,
Counter Protocol Rejected.
Tho Americans replied in a written
communication saying that they
could not consider the counter pro
tocol and insisting that the agreement
already made must either bo ratified
or definitely repudiated. Some as
pect of an' ultimatum was given tho
communication by the insistence that
an answer would bo expected by De
cember 26. It was not specifically
stated that failure to ratify the
agreement would result in a final
break in negotiations, but tho intima
tions that the Americans would not
continue the debates that already
have extended over three months was
clearly made.
Whether Carranza has ratified 'the
agreement is unknown by the Amer
ican commissioners or by tho state
department. Mr. Cabrera was in
Washington yosterday to spend
Christinas with Ambassador-Deslg-nato
Arredondo and returned to Now
York last night to meet with Commis-
government that caused the state
board of pardons to reprieve Hill'
-strom for a short perioa.
All six of the men under arrest
are Swedes. The man who came to
the police station and identified them
today as having been at the governor's
home on Christmas Eve is fearful of
an attempt upon his life and asked
that his name be withheld.
The explosion of a bomb on Sunday
night at .the residence of James E.
Jennings, wealthy capitalist, 425 East
South Temple street, folowed Christ
mas morning by the finding of a nitro.
glycerine device of death dealing po
tentiality, has thrown Salt Lake into
a veritable panic a fear of death and
destruction; of the hate of a ring of
murderers.
Tho Salt Lake chief of police late
yesterday announced that friends of
Governor Spry had offered 5500 re
ward for information leading to the
arrest of the person or persons who
placed the bomb at his homo.
Today the city commission added
?500 to this sum with the sweeping
offer of payment for information lead
ing to the arrest of any connected
with either outrage.
Only a mere chance prevented a
vertitable catastrophe at the residence
of the governor. R. F. Neslen, re
siding next door to Governor Spry, un
covered the Instrument of death and
destruction as he was sweeping a
pathway with a broom. Had he used
a shovel, it is stated, there is no
doubt the bomb would have been set
off by the concussion.
sioners Pani and Bonillas. He did
not communicate with Secretary Lane
while here and at the embassy it was
said this morning when he left here
no word as to Carranza's action had
been received.
If Carranza's answer is communi
cated to Secretary Lane today ar
rangements for a continuation of the
conferences of the joint commission
will be made unless the character of
the reply is such as to make it that
the continued debate on the subject
is useless. In that case a formal ex
change of notes by the chairmen of
the commission will probably mark
the finish of the work.
In the event that Carranza agrees
to the terms of the protocol as sign
ed, It is expected the session will be
resumed one week from today per
haps in Washington, although the
Mexicans have expressed a desire
that they might be held In New York.
New York, Dec. 26. The Mexican
members of the joint commission had
received no word from General Car
ranza regarding the American com
munication up to 1:15 o'clock this aft
ernoon, it was stated here by Luis Ca
brera. Cabrera In Conference.
Mr. Cabrera was in conference
throughout the day with his associ
ates, Commissioners Rani and Bon
illas. He described the meeting as
one at which they were "dscussing im
portant matters," but further than that
he declined to say anything definite
except that nothing had ben heard
from Mexico City. He said that tho
session will continue until tonight
and that any statement concerning
results must come from the joint com
mission as a whole.
BORDER FIRING
CAUSES ALARM
El Paso, Texas, Dec. 26. Firing in
the vicinity of tho Third Kentucky
outpost near the border late last night
caused another general alarm at tho
camp of the First Battalion of this
regiment following tho skirmish be
twoen Mexican snipers and the sol
diers of this battalion Sunday night,
the firing had occurred on the Texas
side of the Rio Grande where a Christ
mas dance was being held by Mexi
cans. The Kentucky outposts dug them
selves in yesterday near the monu
ment which marks the boundary be
tween New Mexico and Chihuahua.
The outposts were forced to abandon
thoir first lino trench near the bound
ary Sunday night and two additional
trenches were dug yesterday in anticl
pation of further sniping operations.
Tho sniping Sunday night came
from the adobo house where Francis
co Madero made his headquarters dur
ing the Madero revolution.
ALLIED I
Formidable Warship I
Squadron, Heavily
Armed and Disguised I
i ' on This Side of 1 1
Atlantic. I
Boston, Dec. 26. The presence on I
this side of the Atlantic of a formid- . jM
able fleet of allied warships was in '
dicated definitely today. The vessels (
are known officially as commerce
protectors.
They are heavily armed and dis
guised. For obvious reasons there
exact disposition is not revealed but
the arrival recently in American wa- M
ters of this newest unit of the Brit
ish and French admiralties was made jH
known from a source that hardly can
be mistaken. Hl
For some days skippers of trans- lil
Atlantic and coastwise steamers have
been bringing to New England ports '
reports of strange appearing craft JM
that were making their way west
ward. They made no reply to signals
and could not be approached. They
steered a vagrant course and were
described variously as of the fashion
of merchantmen, transports, light
cruisers and even of submarines.
Pieced together, these reports fitted
in with the suspicion, now apparently . jl
confirmed, of shipping men. It is said
the first arrived safely at Halifax, N. H
S., a few days ago, but nothing then (
became known generally about it be
cause of the strict censorship main-
tained. 1
The commerce protectors are de-
scribed as large and powerful but cap- 1
able of fair speed. They were de- j H
signed, it is said, to meet the German I 'M
U-boat danger and in anticipation of H
an attempted raid off tho Canadian ; (M
coast similar to that made by the U-53
off Nantucket on October S. - At that Cil
time shipping men figured that there
was not an allied warship within 500 ijH
miles of the spot where Captain Hans H
Rose deliberately selected in which to H
operate. The British admiralty, it is . i;H
said, determined to make impossible H
another shipping raid and commerce
protectors was the fruitation of the
plan then formulated. The arrival of
the disguised warships was followed ,
almost immediately with the an-
nouncement by the British premier, j H
Lloyd-George, of the plan for the na-
tionalization of British shipping. ' 'M
It is understood that the commerce 1 JM
protectors will not only lie in wait for j jl
submarines at strategic points, but jH
that they had been provided in suffi-
cient numbers to act as convoys for jH
merchant vessels through tho zones ( jl
in which undersea boats would be
most likely to operate. '
STREET GARS ARE NOT 1
11 1 PART I
OF SALT LAKE I
More than 12 Inches of snow has H
fallen in Utah within the past twenty- jjH
four hours breaking all previous
storm records. Branch railroads t i
have suspended schedules and only
the main lines are open to traffic.
Overland trains aro many hours be- ; H
hind.
Street car traffic in Salt Lako is ,H
at a standstill save for a "stub" serv- H
ico in tho downtown district. In the . H
southern part of the state low temper- H
atures provail, with Modena register- H
ing twenty-four degrees below. All H
suburban towns are Isolated.
oo
The normal population of Paris is
about 115 to the acre to f iftyl in Lon- H
don.
1
