wttitt
ARDMORE. OKLA.. TUESDAY. DECEMBER 26. 1916.
VOLUME TWENTY-FOUR
NUMBER 69.
MUCH POWER IN BRITIAN'S NEW COUNCIL
TEUTONS TAKE
IS HELD BY THESE THREE STATESMEN
GERMANY PROPOSES IMMEDIATE
MEETINGOF PEACE DELEGATES
MOEP
PROPOSAL FROM BERLIN TODAY ASKING FOR AN IM
MEDIATE MEETING OF BELLIGERENT DELEGATES
TO DISCUSS TERMS OF PEACE.
Central Power in Their Reply to President Wilson' Note to
the Belligerents, Propose an Immediate Conference in
Some Neutral City The Task of Preventing Future Wars,
the Statement Says, can on' e Begun After the End of
the Present War The Not m Berlin says an Imme
diate Exchange of Views S' the Most Appropriate
Road in Order to Reach the D i Result Note Trans
mitted to Ambassador Gerara 'ay Italy Continues
War Plans, and Twenty-Five Hun ", ' Factories are Now
Running Night and Day Turning Oi mi and Munitions
for the Italian Armies. V
Berlin, Dec. 2G. Germany
proposes an immediate meeting
of belligerent delegates to dis
cuss peace.
Germany and her allies, Austria-Hungary
Bulgaria and Tur
key today replied to President
Wilson's Note asking the bel
ligerents to State the aims forlf'Tt to got tho parties together, then
I u in certain such a proposition would
be carriql ly virtual unanimity
"1 am not prepared to face the pros
pects of a military decision which
means a war of attrition, unless I am
convinced there Is no other way out.
I believe in the security scheme by
which the nations agree together each
to guarantee all and all guarantee
each. An attempt to hold the central
empires down by a military decision,
followed by economic strangulation,
would mean currying forward Into
peuee all hostilities and hatreds of
Delivered to Gerard lll' wnr- 'l wo,'l'' divide Europe Into
Berlin Dec. 2G. The text of two nnst"e ramps and would make war
Germany's answer to President l"loro ''"vitubie and deadly than ever,
Wilson's note was transmitted ' 1,11,1 wo"ltl f,lst''" conscription and
which they are fighting. The
Central Powers propose an im
mediate conference of belliger
ent delegates in some neutral
city.
The task of preventing fu
ture wars, the statement says,
can be begun only after the end
of the present war. The note
says "an immediate exchange
of views Seems the most appro
priate road in order to reach
the desired result."
tho German pe, . will realize that
they ure not suffering and dying for
their mere existance, as they have
been told.
"If it were put to a vote of the men
Ht the front whether provided we
could obtain guarantees that our hon
orable obligations would be fulfilled
we should then make a serious ef-
to Ambassador Gerard today.
The note ,says "The high
minded suggestions made by
the President of the United
States in order to create a basis
for lasting peace, have been re
ceived and considered by the
imperial government in the
friendly spirit which was ex
pressed in the President's com
munication." The imperial government
says it is of the opinion "that
the great work of preventing
future wars can be begun after
the end of the present struggle
of the nations. It will, when
this moment shall have come,
be ready to collaborate with
pleasure entirely with the
United States in this exalted
task."
The answer of the Central
Powers concludes with the
usual diplomatic terms of po
liteness.
NOTE IS WELCOME.
Soldiers Say That the Men at Front
Would Hear Further.
London, Dec. 25. -Noel K. lluxton.
leral member for North Norfolk, ex-
Jessed in the house of commons, to
night the hope that "the government
willweIi:ome the aid of America In
negotiating the terms of peace."
lluxton paid tribute to the gener
osity of the I'nited States toward Bel
gium ami to the help it had given the
entente in the war. and said:
.There, are thirty thousand Amerl
mi fighting for us. America Is with
in ine war nccau.se or tne Invasion
Belgium and the German campaign
frightfulness."
New Note is Sounded.
Sir John A. Simon, on behalf of
himself and a group of followers,
gave unqualified supiwirt to Premier
Lloyd George's speech in the house
of commons, and then Hastings H. L.
Smith, liberal, dressed in his military
uniform, sounded a new no'e- urging
that the German promisnls be allowed
t, unn Iha lifVi, .f ,1',.- '
Andrew llonar I. a v. chancellor of
the exchequer and member of the war
council, promptly rose in In half of the
government, and declared that If the
tone of Smith's sMech permeated the
country, then all the blood ami treas
ure which had lieen i-pent in the war
vould have been spent in vain.
"My understanding." sai.1 Smith In
his address, "ii that the reply of the
premier to the German note was to
the effect that the door was not yet
losed. That is a w ise answer and I
the best possible answer at this stage
The. German proposals thould be al
lowed to see the light of day. If they
disclose an aggressive purpose, then
militarism forever on all nations.'
Law Opposes Sentiment.
llonar Law said:
"If tho spirit of the speech to
which we have just listened where to
permeate the country, I believe that nil
the blood and treasure which have
been spent In the war would have been
spent In vain. It Is all very
well to say, 'Let us get their terms
of peace.' Yes, but can you get any
terms more binding than the treaty
for the protection of Belgium? Can
you come to any conclusions on
paper or by promises that will give ns
greater security than we had before
this war?
"Not this nation alone, but the
neutral nations will, I hope, under
stand the position at which we have
now arrived. Germany has made
peace proposals. On what basis? On
the basis of her victorious armies. Is
there a man who. considering the con
ditions under which this war was
forced on us and the conditions under
which the war has been carried on.
honestly believe that the dancers and
insecurities from which we have suf-1
I'ered can be cured In any way than j
by making the Germans realize that
frightfulne.-s does not pay; that mili
tarism is not going to rule the world?
Fighting for Security.
"What tire we fighting for? Not
territory; not greater strength as a
nation. We are fighting for two
things-fur peace now and for se
curity of peace in time to come. Let
the house remember that what has
I J, P J f?x m
TSSmtg. h . . 5 I ft jSELl J
I'nconventional portraits of three I lj i 1 f I ,
men who are leading powers in the .4 i J 1 " I
new British war council are shown in ii' '& i 112 1 t I
the accompanying picture. No. 1, Ar- J ,v 1 L ill I I I
thur Henderson, laborlte, sending a f-ll vl A it'
letter to South African labor leaders; s jSj ' I
No. 2, Karl Curzon, unionist, govern- rifTi ."gTl 1
nieut leader in the house of Lords; Jl v ?l!- 'vvl?'' 'V VS1
No. 3. Andrew llonar Law, who de- Jf, 1$ jT f:W
clined the pi emiersiiip, but acts as ff t . 1;, P-SSf' I, I '
leader of the government forces Is. . y. fa if Zthitr '
the house of communs. He is seen X &? S i ggT 'ZS1 f 'irS
here conversing with Viscount French, lliit,, I tfmmmJI ' J
who commands the home forces in 6iitl!.'j.J,ffMitjf C .... . Sfjfj
Great llritain, after having been re- ' ' ' - , " 7 '
lie.ed of the chief command in France.
nil niniin in I n i irn iimr . ixn Trnnnin itt
mmima matmi loitramit
SOUNDED TO ARMED FLEET CONFERENCE
I mini imnn in iti iiinrin ,
llhWmE) MiMWh
QUIT HAMMERING CAPITAL AND PRESENCE ON THIS SIDE OF AT
ENCOURAGE BUSINESS TO COME LANTIC OF FORMIDABLE FLEET
TO STATE IS URGED AT BAN- BECAME KNOWN TODAY R E I II J TFT III 11111 10111
QUET IN TULSA. COMMERCE PROTECTORS. Y L L I III flLlI I U K l
i
REPLY RECEIVED FROM CARRAN
ZA TO LAST COMMUNICATION
MADE HI3 COMMISSIONERS.
At a banquet tendered members of
the incoming legislature at Tulsa Dec.
.'i a warning was sounded that if ad
hered to may redound to the wellare of
the industries of the state.
The following from the Tulsa World
Is most timely and is reproduced for
the good that it will do. The news
story in the World says:
"Let up on the oil man and the
business interests; encourage capital
instead of discouraging it" was the
Loston. Mas.-.. Dec. C. -The tires
icnce on this side of the Atlantic of a
j torinldable fleet of allied warships wasj
indicated definitely today. The ves-j
I si N are known officially as commerce
protectors, are heavily armed and dis-j
liaised. They arrived recently, lull
Cur obvious re:lsins their evjict '
pn.-itlon is not revealed.
Mexican Members of the Commission
Will Meet Today in New York If
Answer is Received From Carranza,
Conference Wjll Continue.
THE WHITE HOUSE DINNER
keynote of the open forum conducted i
war outrage in
happened in this
Belgium, outrages by sea and land.i
massacres In Armenia, which Ger-!'"r-v
many could have stopped bv a word "
then realize this: The war will
have been fought in vain, nlterlv in
vain, unless we can make sure that it
by the City club yesterdav.
it was
the llrst event of the kind in the his-
of Oklahoma.
luncheon was tendered members
of the state legislature at Hotel Tulsa
at 12 o'clock and last night a smoker
was held at the Chamber of Commerce.
sts
will never ligain be In the newer of I r nr.y -seven out-ol town gu.
any state to do what Germany has J ,''"(,,'l luncheon am? smoker, i
done. eluding members of the legislature.
"Is peace to come In this war on' rrobably the feature-- of the day
the basis that the greatest crime iiiia, "ie address of Senator-elect War
the world's hl.-tory is to go absolutely r''" K- Snyder of Oklahoma 1ty. who
unpunished? It is mv firm belief that .declared that the coming session of
unless all nations in the world can ''" legislature would be the most 1m
be made to realise that these mural . portant held sinc e statehood and w ho
forces must be vindicated, there never ! eipre-sed hiruseif as favoring the re
can be an enduring peace. -moval of unjust burdens of taxation
"I am not afraid. I am sure our ,iav0 1'Pe;, P'aied on the o.l in
troops will fight to the end. If the dustry.
people at home, who up to now have I Oklahoma County Friendly,
made few sacrifices, except the sac- "Win n the legislature is in ses
rlflce if those dear to them, are de- si!,n." he said, "you can count on me
termined in this matter, and if they h-ing w Ith you. I w ill act the same a
believe that the objects for wbiih ,f ' lived in TuNa. The otliT sena-
:hey arc fighting can be securfd. then '" from my district and the four
there Is mi sacrifice we are not pre-, democratic representatives from Ok
pared to make." , lahoma county will vote witli you folks
'as well."
Assassin's Identy Unknown. I Senator Snyder announced his In-
For: Worth. Tex.. Dec. . The tention of introducing a bill making
identity of the nmn who killed J. J ithe p.nalty for Lank or train robbery
Mitchell and Joel need in Knox City
Sunday night is still unknown. I (Continued on Page Eli,iit)
Washington, Dee. 2.Y t'ersideiit
Wilson concluded his Christmas cele-
1'ir.ition at the While House tonight
with a dinner at which be entertained
I a iarge group of relatives and friends.
'It was an "all-American" dinner, with
'(' ilcacies from many parts of the
cu-mtry sent to the president as Christ
mas presents
After spending the morning with
.lo-ephine Cothran. his small grand-
niepe, and other relatives, about a
huge Christmas tree in the White
lbuse library, the (president took a
wMk through Die residential section of
th- city with lr. Wilson and di
re ttd the distribution of toys to small
cii.ldren iji Vijrinia who wave to
hit'i dally when he goes to play golf. I
The White House nas deluged with)
teh gran, s and lefers from all hut the
I n ted States and from abroad, wisb-l
inir Mr. Wilson a merry Christina1-. '
Ma.'iy of the nicssag'-s .-juak of hope
tor peace in Kurope. Because con-
gre-s ts in re"-St tae president wi,i
have few engagements dur'ng tlie re- ,:
mainder of the week. The govern
ment departments remained closed
nd members of the cabinet. dip!o-(
mane officer and others spent t iirist-
a de
held
in
tor
New
future
York.
confercm e to be
FIFTY-FIVE HUNDRED ADDITION
.AL PRISONERS CAPTURED IN
RUMANIA.
FILIPECHTJ IS TAKEN
Town on Railroad Between Buxeu and
Brailia Captured at Bayonet Point
by Germans and Their Allies, Ac
cording to Berlin.
Berlin, Dec. 26. In Rumania, fifty
five hundred more prisoners have been
taken by the Teutonic allies, the Ger
man war office announces.
The town of Filipechti, on the rail
road between Buzeu and Brailia, was
captured at the bayonet point. The
strongly entrenched Russian position
on both sides of the village was
stormed, the statement adds.
Would Resent German Reply.
Amsterdam, Dec. iti. The Telcgraf
says It has reason to believe that Ger
many's reply to Holland's nolo re
garding the deportation of Belgian
workmen Is framed In such terms that
it is Inadvisable to communicate it
to the Dutch parliament and that the
government has requested Berlin to
alter the reply In such manner that
it may bo presented to parliament.
Allies Lost in Battle.
Berlin, Dee. 28. Two allies patrol
boats were sunk and four other allied
warships damaged in the recent naval
engagement in the Strait of Ontrauto,
it is officially announced.
FARMER KILLED AT HOME
Returning from Trip to Corpus Chriiti
Paul Morgan Was Killed.
Corpus Chrlsll, Tex., Dec. 211.-Paul
Morgan, a farmer, was shot and killed
tltis morning twelve miles southeast
of here. He and Ills wife had Just
arrived home from Corpus Chrlstl, and
were alighting from their automobile,
when an unknown person tired upon
Morgan, killing him.
American Dies in France.
Paris, Dec. 25.-1 low urd Biirchard
Lines, a graduate of Dartmouth and
the Harvard law school, son of Dr.
r II. Lines of Paris, and a volunteer
in t lie American Ambulance Corps,
lias died in the Argonue of acute pneu
monia. He contract the disease while
on ambulance service at the front.
Burleson Leaves for Texas.
Washington, Dec. 2,".- Postmaster
General and Mrs. Biirelson left last
night to spend the holiday week with
relatives in Texas. They will spend
Wednesday, Thursday anil Friday lit
Austin.
Washington, I). ('.. Dep. 2'i. -I'nless
Carrana returns u favorable answer
today to the last communic ation made
to his commissioners by the American
representatives a week ago at Phila
delphia, the negotiations will (nine to
an end.
The Mexican commissioners will
meet in New York today and if Car
ranza has sent them his answer. It Is
expected that Cabrera will forward It
to Secretary Idtne at Washington.
Whether Carranza has ratified the
agreement is unknown by the Ameri
can commissioners or the state tie
parttnent.
If Carrana's answer Is received.
urralineuielils w ill be made to con-i
tiniie the conference one week from
today, perhaps in Wa hington, al
though the Mexicans have expressed
F
REVOLUTIONISTS IN SANTO DO
MINGO HAVE BEEN SECURING
ARMS AND MUNITIONS FROM
PORTO RICO.
No Word From Carranza.
Ni -.v York. Dec. 2:. -t 1:1.".. Chair
man C.brera of the Mexican commis
sion said be bad received no word
from Carranza regarding the Ameri
can communication.
San Juan, Dec. Jt'.. Porto Ilieo has
lx ii used as a ha of supplies for the
p-volutionary aiuiniiultion for Santo
Domingo, I'nited Stab's officials here,
jwho recently discovered and con fiscal
( cd a large quantity of revolvers and
title shells Concealed In codfish boxes
anil it' --lined for the neighboring re
public. ImIIiV).
Contingent. tt
"Young man." said an inquisitive j St
old l.dy to a tram conductor. "If ijtt
pat my foot on that rail shall I re K
anaaaaaaaattaauan
n
WEATHER FORECAST.
mas quietly with relatives and friends. , ceive a:i elect tic shock?"
and house were at their homes for thejplace your otb
day. jmire." Tit U;t.
New Orleans, fj,., Dec. 2f.
The weather forecast for Ok
lahoma for tonight aud Wed-
8
8
8
8
Mcist of the memVrs of the senate "No. mum." he replied, "unless yoj8 ,ne?day is fair and culder. 8
8
888888800330
foot on the overhead i 8
IO 8 8
