the barre; daily times
BAUKK. VERMONT, TUESDAY, DECEMBER 20, 1910.
l'KICK. ONE CEXT.
VOL. XX NO. 240.
AN IMMEDIATE
PEACE PARLEY
IS SUGGESTED
Replying (to Wilson's Note, Germany
Praises the "Highmindedness" of the
President and Proposes That the Bel
ligerents Get Together For Exchange
of Viws
PERMANENT PEACE AN
AFTER-CONSIDERATION
YULETIDE JOY
WIDESPREAD
Observance of Christmas
Took on Many Phases
in Barre v
CHURCHES LEADERS
IN THE MOVEMENT
Exercises and Christmas
Tree Festivities Pleased
a Large Number
Christmas conditions aa near the ideal
as possible so tar aa the wont her waa
Wil-
With
Imperial Government Expresses
lingness to Collaborate Entirely
United States in This "Exalted Task",
Germany Replies For All Her Allies
Berlin, by wireless, Dec. 26. The text of Germany's answer to
President Wilson's note, submitted to-day to the American am-
bassador, Gerard, is as follows: . .
"The high-minded suggestion made by the president of the
United States of America in order to create a basis for the estab
lishment of a lasting peace has been received and is considered by
the imperial government in the friendly spirit which was expressed
in the president's communication. The president points out that
which he has at heart and leaves open the choice of a road.
"To the imperial government, an immediate exchange of views
seems to be the most appropriate road in order to reach the desired
result. It begs, therefore, in the sense of the declaration made
Dec. 12, which offered the hand of peace negotiations, to propose
an immediate meeting of the delegates of the belligerent states at
a neutral place.
"The imperial government is also of the opinion that the great
work of preventing future war3 can only be begun after the end of
the present struggle of the nations. It will, when this moment
shall have come, be ready with pleasure to collaborate entirely
with the United States in this exalted task."
The answer is given for Germany, Austria, Bulgaria and Turkey.
concerned gladdened t lie hearts of oM ami
young celebrators ot the luletid in
Barre and for t he reason that the cnlcn
da'r holiday thin year doubled the week
end breathing spell for those who look
upon a day ot sii'di grace aa a real vaca
tion, most of the festivities began in
sense on Saturday and continued until
last evening.' .Sunday wag a day of
Christmas observances in most of the
churches and there were services venter
dny at St. .Monica' and in the Church of
the Good Shepherd. Catholics gathered
for the customary midnight muss at St.
Monica' and there waa a night before
service at the Episcopal church. At the
Baptist, Methodist, Congregational and
First Presbyterian churches there were
special services and appropriate pulpit
utterance. At all services the birth of
the Redeemer waa glorified in special mu
aical programs. Children ot the First
Baptist church enjoyed their annual
Christmas tree last evening and in the
Congregational church, where the com
mendable custom originated in Barre, the
children shared with the young people of
the Iledding Methodist ehurh the credit
of "bringing white gifts to the .Master.
In each instance the service were at
tended by large congregations. A Christ
mas concert program waa carried out by
the children of the I ruversalist church
Sundav afternoon. St. Monica's Sunday
school had its Yuletido Christmas observ
ance in the Knights of Columbus hall
Sunday afternoon. "Jnlotta" Christmas
was observed bv the people of the Swcd
ish Baptist mission Monday morning at
5:30 o clock and m the evening there was
a Christmas tree for the young folks.
TALK OF THE TOWN
Dr. Margaret Carlton of Keene, N. IT.,
and Dr. Fannie Carlton of St. Johnsbury
are spending several daye at the home of
their father, Edwin Carlton of Highland
avenue.
John M. Eastman, who had been spend
ing a few days with his mother, Mrs.
Etta H. Eastman of Washington street,
lias returned to Proctor, where he has a
position with the Vermont Marble Co.
Miss Marjorie Brown returned to her
home in White River Junction last even
ing after spending the week-end and
holiday at the home of her mother, Mrs.
Elizabeth Hrown of North Main street.
Joseph Bianehi left last evening for
New York, where he will spend the holi
days at the home of his mother, Mrs. A.
Hianehi. Mr. Hianehi will return to
Barre during the latter part of next
week.
Miss Mary B. Given arrived in the city
Saturday evening from Moretown, where
she teaches school, and will spend the the1
Christmas recess at the home of her
parents, Mr. and Mrs. James Given of
Richardson street. -
Samuel Tite, who has been under treat
ment at the Haydenville hospital, North
ampton, Mass., since the early part of
the summer, was able to return to his
home in this city Saturday. Mr. Tite is
reported to be much improved in health
since his stay at the Haydenville sana
torium. ' .
John McCourtie returned to Barre Sun
day from Burlington, where he has been
under treatment at the Mary Fletcher
hospital during the past month. Mr. Me
(Vmrtie returns to Barre much improved
in health. Mr3. McCourtie, who went to
Burlington during tho latter part of laet
week, accompanied herhusband home.
Invitation cards -were received in this
city and Montpelier by the friends and
relatives of Rev. Patrick James Hackett,
announcing his ordination to the priest
hood at St. James cathedral in Montreal
on Saturday morning. Dec. 23. His first
high masa waa celebrated in his native
citv on Sunday morning at 10:30. He is
the son of Mr. and Mrs. Thomas Hackett
of Concord, N. H., and a nephew of Mrs.
M. Kcnefick of Barre,
E. M. Laws of Wellington street re
wived a telegram Saturday night ad
vising him of the critical illness of his
fa I ik r in Brandy. Va. Because of the
icrious import of the message. Mr. Laws
left on the midnight train, expecting to
arrive in his old Virginia home Sunday
right. Mm. E. M. Laws of Boston ar
rived in that city Sunday to pass the
holiJayj at her home on Wellington
street. She wa.t accompanied by Mrs.
George W. Mann, who has been passing
a month in Massachusetts.
Paul Molinari of Rjymond, Cal., is
visiting in Barre for the first time in
fifteen year. Mr. Molinari, a granite
cutter by trade, left the city in 1901,
after cutting a good deal of Barre gran
ite for different manufacturers. He is
permmently located in the granite fielda
TALK OF THE TOWN
Mr. and Mra. John O'Leary of Eastern
avenue left thia forenoon for Boston,
to remain with relatives until after New
Year's.
William Grey, formerly of Barre and
now of Montreal, P. Q., is visiting friends
and relatives in the city until after the
holidays.
Harry Forsythe and W. Melville of
Ryegate are passing a few days in the
city as the guests of Alex Watt of North
Seminary street.
Miss Ida Hianehi, clerk at the John
Kelly store, left last evening for Boston,
where she will spend JO days visiting
mentis and relatives.
Alexander Fowlie, jr., and George Fow
lie of Ayers street left last evening for
.Newport, where they will spend several
days visiting relatives. i
Perry Olliver and Fred Noel, who have
been visiting relatives in the city during
the past few days, returned to their
homes in Claremont, N. H., yesterday,
Mrs. Milo Bassett and her daughter,
Gwendolyn, from Atlantic City, N. J.,
are visiting at the home of the former's
sister,' Mrs. Fred Beckley of 6 Park street.
Archie McDonald of New Haven, Conn.,
arrived m the city Sunday and will
spend the Christmas and New Year's
holidays with friends and relatives in
this city. . ,
George Johnson, a student in the class
of, 1908 at Goddard seminary, returned
to his home in Southbridge, Mass., last
evening, atter visiting relatives in the
city over the holidays.
Carroll Smith, a student at the Mas
aachusctts Instituto of Technology of
Cambridge, Mass., arrived in the city
Minaay evening and will spend the hoi
day recesa at the homo of hia parent,
Mr. and Mrs. W. D. Smith of Summer
street.
Coach William Maiden of the Montpe
lier seminary basketball team arrived in
the city Saturday evening, conung to
Barre from Newbury, where his team
met defeat at the hands of Newbury high
school Friday night by a acoro of 27 to
16. Coach Maiden saya that hia team
left the floor with three or four minute
to play on account of the pugilistic tac
tics which the Newbury team continually
showed throughout the contest.
Miss Annabel Petrie, who has been in
the tailoring department of the Lamorey
Clothing Co. since the early summer, has
completed her duties there and left last
evening for Boston, where she will sail
to-morrow for Florida. She w ill be em
ployed in one of the winter resort hotels
at Deland. She waa accompanied to Bos
ton by Miss Bella Frazier and Joseph
Frazicr. Miss Frazier will continue on
from Boston with Miss Petrie.
NEW CASES ENTERED
For Trial at March Term of Washington
County Court.
The following cases have been entered
with the county clerk for trial at the
March term of court: . C Bradley and
of the Pacific coast and heme of theM. Edna Bradley of Warren, doing busi-
nuider climate prefer to follow the nesg under the firm name of Bradley &
craft in the Wet. He waa accompanied ; Co.. vs. Eaton Heath of Randolph, f.100
to Barre by Antonio Filiberti. al- of . book account, M. M. Wilson attorney for
Raymond, w ho will he remembered local-1 the plaintiffs; Bert Dodge and Dora
y aa a former leader of the Trana-AtUn-' Dodge vs. Vermont Real Estate Co. of
lie band, an organization of Italian mu-1 Montpelier. trover. Therianlt & Hunt for
Mcians which flirished here several j the plaintiffs; U. G. Austin vs. Marie
year ago. Mr. Filiberti returns for a Austin, divorce, Therianlt Hunt for
Moonra of a few wcrka, after aa absence , the petitioner; William H. Harrigan et al
.4 ibire veara. v. Jcaie Law Ingram it alt d-ancerr.
For the third consecutive year the
Congregational Christmas celebration
took the form of a "white gift" observ
ance, with a verv fitting and well carried
out program, which was opened with the
singing of "Joy to the World," by chil
dren in the distance. Ihe church was
prettily decorated across the front of the
platform with festoons of white, against
which scarlet poinsettias stood out sharp
ly, and on the platform at the right wag
fa white cross, emblematic of the season,
and at the foot of which were placed the
"white gifts" from the different depart
ments of the church and Sunday school.
At the front of the church the light
over the choir was so arranged that it
appeared aa a brilliant star, representing
the one which guided the shepherds to
where the Babe of Bethlehem was cradled
in a manger. In the dim "light diffused
over the church by the star, the congre
gation assembled and the rendering of
carols, familiar Christmas hymns ana
other selections by Miss Gladys Gale at
the organ, assisted by Mrs. E. W. Bruce,
violin, and Kenneth Gale, trombone, was
most pleasing.
An innovation in the musical program
was the presence of a chorus of about 20
voieea in the balcony at the back of the
church, which, together with the choir
and the voices of the children, added
much' to the pleasure of the. occasion.
The junior and primary departments
of the Sunday school marched into the
church auditorium bearing their banners,
and then were seated at the front of the
church.
The whole "white gift" idea is based
on "The Legend of Cathay," where, on
the king's birthday, a party is said to be
given, when every gift ia white, and the
great, king esteems not one gift above an
other, whether from rich or poor, so long
as all the gifts are white. This selection,
"The Legend of Cathay," was given by
Miss Helen Roscoe. There were several
songs by the junior and primary depart
ments, a solo, "The Hush of Night Has
Fallen." by Fred Inglis. congregational
and chorus singing of Christmas hymns
and carols and the. various departments
of church work presented their white
gitts of money, potatoes, clothing and
many other tilings to ease a poverty
stricken home, to bring joy to the heart
of sonic child or to aid in the work of
the parish among those where need may
develop through the winter. The wom
an's association presented a check for
$.500 to pay a note. . "
The children fell in heartily with the
"white gift" plan and many of the classes
raised $10 or more tor whatever par
ticular purpose they voted to have it go,
while the older ones raised proportion
ately larger amounts.
To-niglit, to-morrow afternoon and to
morrow night, the teachers of the inter
mediate, primary and junior grades are
to give Christmas parties for those in
their departments.
At the Sunday morning service there
vas special music, Kenneth Gale assist
ing with the trombone, and a sermon on
The Supremacy of Jesus was preached
by the pastor, Rev. J. W. Rarnett.
organ. The training of the children waa
under the supervision of the teachers
Mra. A. Moore, Mra. Edward and Mi
Eurle. W. J. Edwards, the auiM-riulcn
dent of the school, waa in charge of all
arrangement. Hugh Itaycraft provided
the tree and with the assistance of
Messrs. Alcv. Howerman and Littlewood
placed it in the vestry.
After the exereiava, V, J. Coxon, in
behalf of the church, presented the rector,
Rev. W. J. M. Bcattle, a purae of, $02,511,
the largeat gift that has ever la-en pre
ented to him. Mr. Coxon in a verv im
prcxaive manner reviewed the work of the
church and expressed the hope that the
past work would continue in the same
spirit of harmony which has marked it
progTesa thua far, ,
The Barre Salvation Armv, under the
leadership of ('apt. and Mrs. Spargo, waa
enabled to carry on it usual Christmas
work because of the generous eoutribu
tion by people of liarrc anil vicinity and
many people were niade glad by the
luemhera of the corps. Forty basket
containing food for 200 people for a
couple of mca'a or more and clothing to
the value of $N0 were distributed lor
Christmas; and next Sunday evening the
Armv will give out about 100 articles ot
clothing which are now weighing down
the trees standing In the hall. I en pairs
of shoes; will also be' distributed, while
candy, popcorn, cran- and other things
to bring joy anil happiness to the poor
children of tho city will be passed out.
At (he Baptist church, the Christmas
festivities were continued from Sunday
evening, when an interesting program of
exercise was earned out, to Monday
veiling, when gift were distributed from
largo tree in the vestry of the church.
One of the delightful featurea of the
Yuletido gathering, last evening came
when Miss Ethel Inglis, speaking in be
half of the parishioner and many mem
bers' of the Sunday echool, presented the
pastor, Rev. B. J. Lehigh, a purse con
taining more than $."() in money. The
lcrgvman was somewhat taken aback
by thia unexpected manifestation of the
esteem in which he is held by his flock,
but he soon mastered his emotions anil
gracefully thanked the donors.
Another event worthy of mention waa
he presentation of an attractively Ixmnd
Bible to Miss Merle Gundrv, who lias
achieved a unimie record in the matter of
uixla y school attendance. In the past
six years, .Miss Gundrv lias attended the
Baptist Sunday achoo) without missing a
session. In recognition of her faithful
ness, the Sunday school availed itself of
he opportunity offered and gave evU
once of its satisfaction in a very sub-
tantial way.
Officers of the Sunday school were in
hinge of the gathering. A few of the
iece that were recited on the preceding
vening were related and afterward the
lit were distributed from a well-light-
d tree in one corner of the vestrv.
The program Sunday eveningiProces-
ional: prayer. Rev. Mr. Lehigh; recita-
m, luncl .Murray; anthem, "And the
Angel Said I'nto Them." choir; exercises.
hildren; recitation, "The Story of a
Dream," Doris Newton: violin solo. Fred
rick Sanborn; exercises, "The Bethlehem
Star," children; recitation, Blanche Cor-
iss; eong, Ellen fctjrO" nd Elva Mud-
gett; exercise, "Jesus' Birthday," chil-
ren; recitation, "The Little Shepherd
Hoy," Arthur Perrv; exercises, "Tho
tory of the Star," children; recitation.
Natalie WrjartTt; motion song, "Christmas
,ullaby," children; exercises, "The Pil
grims' Quest," children; exercise, "Christ
mas Gifts," children recitation, Lillinn
Stevens; exercises, "The King's Crown,"
hildren; offertory olo, Frederick Inglis;
tableau, "Tis Midnight"; hymn No. 155;
benediction. For the exercises last even-
ng, Ella Holmes, Arthur Perry, Natalie
Wright and Byron Grearson contributed
selection.
FANCY FOWLS
IN FINE FETTLE
Eleventh Annual Exhibition
of Vermont Poujtry As
sociation Opens
CHURCH STREET GYM.
A NOISY, BUSY PLACE
About 1,000 Birds Arc Ex
pected, with 650 Al
ready Here
At dawn to-day, a chorus of chanti
cleers ushered in th thwenth annual ex
hibition of the Vermont Poultry associa
tion, which is to lie the goal of many
poultry breeders in Vermont and some
other New England states until Thurs
day afternoon. The grand chorus of
eock-a-doodlc-doos and cut-eut-ca-daeuta
ia being trained in the old Church street
gymnasium, where aome ll.xi ot ine eieci
in all that s feathers and tine singing arc
preening themselves before the judges and
an admiring stream of poultry 'breeder.
There are to be 3o0 or 400 more birds
registered at the gvm. before the show
ends, and when vou consider that half of
them are roosters you can imagine with
what fervor the dawn will be greeted
about to-morrow morning.
For Vermont the present exhibit is the
official show for the American Poultry
association. To the man who spends the
last week of the dying year in clipping
coupons, that means nut little; out it is
a mighty big factor for the poultry asso
ciation, "so the bird breeders will tell you.
'onsidering the inconveniences which
fancy, fussy cocks, cockerels, pullets and
their ilk encountered in making the prop
er train connections on a holiday, the
registration ia very large and the over
due birds, when they arrive oil the
grounds, will push the total enrollment
well up to the mark set bv the executive
committee in making reservations for the
!H exhibit. Birds from Maine, New
Hampshire and New York, to say noth
ing of our home-grown ermont birds,
began arriving Sunday, and all day yes
terday there were busy scenes enacted
in the gym. For the convenience of the
public, the coops are arranged in aisles,
and every last bird may be seen to the
finest advantage.
Some of the breeds already represent
ed are: Barred Plymouth Rocks, White
Plymouth Rocks, " White Wyandottes,
Buff Wyandottea, Silver Laced and Co
lumbian Wvandottes. Rose .Comb Rhode
Island Reds, Single Comb Rhode Island
Red. - 8rngle Comb Buff Orpingtons
Partridge Wyandottea, Single Comb
White and Black Orpingtons, White Leg
horns. Buff and Brown Leghorns, White
and Black Minorcas (both combs), Anco-
nas. Black .lavas, Gold and Silver Cam
pinea, Sicilian Buttercups, Blue Andalu
sians, Cochins. ;' Also, there are ducks,
turkeys and pigeons to be seen, making
perhaps one of the finest exhibits "ever
assembled in Vermont.
There are plenty of special induce
ments for breedera thia year, and poultry
growers over a wide range of territory
have been quick to respond. The judgea,
George P. Coffin of Freeport, Me., and
George W. Weed of East Lee. Mass.. ar-
The Christmas exercises held at ! rived in the city yesterday and were on
Worthen hall by the members of the the Moor early to-dav with their pencils
wedish Baptist society yesterday Were land note nads". Both'iudges have offieiat-
the most aiiccessf-l in the history of tlieuvd Rt showa in Barre, and their presence
church in Barre, there being over 100 ! fiip 1011! pvhibit ia regarded bv noul-
people in attendance. Both the music trymen aa a guarantee of satisfaction in
nd the speaking were pf high order, the distribution of awards. Some of the
The center of attraction to the young aplrndid trophies that are to be awarded
people, nowever, was me tree wnicn j before the show ends are shown in the
as beautifully decorated with candles display window at the store of B. W.
4th cockerel, Donald Smith; 1st pulle
Donald Smith; 2d pullet, J. P. Corkie
3d pullet, .M. Koberson; 41 li pullet. .1. I
Corskie; lt pen of old, Donald Smith
2d pen of old, J. 1', Corakiei lt pen
young, D. Smith; 2d, J. P. Coiskie; 3d
1). Smith; 4th, .1. P. Corskie.
CHILDREN WERE DELIGHTED.
At Mr. and Mra. Santa Claua Showered
Gifts on Them.
Children of St. Monica 'a Sunday school
made merry at the Knights of Colunihu
hall Monday a Iter neon with a Mr. anil
Mra. Santa Chilis, whose make-up wa
realistic enough to convince the must
skeptical child that those two faiuou
benefactor of childhood were present 1
actual being. Nearly every child in Hi
parish who i alliliated with the Sunday
school had hi or her heart gladdened by
a bag of candy and an abundance ot uth
er good thing. The senior division o:
the school emphasized the Christina
spirit in an enjoyable little playlet en
titled, "Ihe Sunshine (lull. Ihe par
ticipanta were well trained for the pre
entation and their appearance at the
opening of the exercises wa hailed with
glee by the younger children.
After the entertainment the burden
under which a large Christmas tree
groaned and creaked were quickly re
lieved bv Mr. and Mr. D. J .Sullivan
who were in the Tovland roles. Kvery
child waa remembered with a gilt. That
the Christmas observance for the young
people of St. Monicas waa eminently a
success is due measureably to the efforts
of A. H. Burke and Clarence Foley, who
devoted their time and energy to
thorough canvass of the parish, and to
those who contributed bo liberally.
MARTIN BLANCHARD.
nd loaded with the Christmas gifts, it
being donated for the entertainment by
line Nielson of the cast hill.
There were two servicea through the
lav, one in the morning at 5:30 o'clock
nd the other at night when the tree and
program were in order at 7 o'clock. In
the morning the services were opened by
two songs by the members of the choir,
followed by a sermon by Rev. N. C. Ed
wall, pastor of the church. In the even
ing, a very pleasant program was in or
der, consisting of vocal and instrumental
music and recitations by the members
i, ..1 0.. -
nooKer a iu.
The Barre Board of Trade has offered
two handsome silver cups, one for the
best cock, hen, cockerel, pullet and pen
in the American or English breed, and
one for the best cock, hen, cockerel, pul
let and pen in the Mediterranean or
Asiatic breed. The Vermont association
has offered a grand cup, valued at $50,
to be competed for during three years, to
be given to the breeder winning the most
points in any one varict', the cup to be
held by the association until won. For
best displays in several varieties, the
Barre Man and Windsor Woman United
in Marriage.
There waa a verv pleasant family wed
ding party at the home of Mr. and Mrs,
Watson S. Blanchard in Brownsville
West Windsor, on Saturday, Dec. 23
when their daughter, Miss Charlotte
Blanchard, was united in marriage with
Thaddeus Martin, a well-known resident
of east hill, Barre.
The ceremony was performed at high
noon bv Kev. C. II. liazelton of the .Mem
odist Episcopal church in Brownsville.
This church is the center of the religious
and social life of the community and the
bride ia one of the prominent mem
bers.
After the ceremony, the festivities
were continued at a wedding breakfast
at the home of the bride's brother, Ray
A. Blanchard. The newly married couple
took the afternoon train from Windsor for
Burlington. There were many beautiful
and useful gifts.
Mr. and -Mrs. Martin will reside on
east hill. Among, those from Barre who
attended the wedding were Miss Nellie
Blanchard and Misa Emma Martin.
LOVELY TUCKER.
Former Barre Stenographer Married to
Lebanon Man.
A very pretty wedding took place at
the home of Mr. and Mrs. F. L. Tucker
of East Barre on the afternoon of Christ
mas day, when their daughter. Miss Mar
guerite M. Tucker, was united in mar
riage to Milon C. Lovely in the presence
of near relatives of the family. The
single ring service? was used and Rev.
James Raniage was the officiating clergy
man. Miss Clara Coburn of Strafford,
cousin of the bride, waa bridesmaid and
Barnard Spaulding of Lelwnon, N. H.,
was groomsman. .Mrs. . n. Kichnnison
of Barre played the wedding march from
Lohengrin.
The bride is one of Last Barre s well
known and highly esteemed young wom
en, a graduate of Montpelier seminary,
class of 1914, and has been bookkeeper in
the office of Waldron Shield,, granite
manufacturer, Barre, for the past two
years. The groom is engaged in the drug
business in Lebanon, N. H. After their
wedding trip they will reside in Lebanon.
The many friends of .Mr. and .Mrs.
Lovely wish for them a happy and pros
perous future.
MINDFUL OF COMRADES IN ARMS.
HIT BY TRAIN
AND SOON DIED
Napoleon Laflowcr Was a
Passenger from Barre
to the Quarries
INJURED MAN LAY
INSNO OR HOUR
On Retur J" rip Trainmen
Saw H and Brought
Him che Hospital
The annual Christmas tree exereisea
were held last evening in the vestry of
St. John the Baptist Episcopal church in
Websterville. There was present the
largest number ever assembled for a
Christmas entertainment in the history
of the church. First of all, there waa a
service in the church, which all attended.
After the service, the following program
waa retiden-d: Song by the sc hool; reci
tation. lavid Littlewood, ilady Mc-
Rae and Charles Nevins; song by Mr.
Moorea class; dialogue by the boys;
recitations. Beatrice Suitor, Jonald uit
or, mond Miller, Norman M IjisI. An
na IV1I McAuley; aong by the whool ;
recitations. Klsi Jbl-od. Lillian Mann.
Kiintee i.rake, Maraer.t Mathewaon, Ag-
IMH Nevins. Ihivid Littlewood.
Mrs. W. J. LdAaru's presided at the days.
of the church. Verner Anderson of , association also offers 2." silver cups. For
Montpelier gave two recitations, one in! the best colored bird, M. S. Levin offers
the Swedish language and the other in$l and W. Barclay Scott, president of
English. The program is as follows: jthe state association, offers a glass punch
Piano solo, E. Erickson; devotional serv-bowl and glasses for the best bird in the
ice conducted by John Johnson; violin show. The donor ia not to compete, and
solo, Roger Erickson; "Welcome," Frank jthe decision is to be final. Many ribbons
Anderson; recitation, Ada Steele, song! are to be distributed, and any bird that
by the members of the choir; dialogue bv
Ida Steele and Lena Gustafson; recita
tion, Walter Johnson; an anthem by the
choir; recitation, Veda Steele: recita
tion, Henry Johnson; cornet solo, Clar
ence Erickson; recitation, Allen Johnson;
recitation. Permit Erickson; anthem,
"The Greatest Gift," by members of the
choir; recitation Anna Steele: recitation,
Elsie Johnson; recitation, Tillie Johnson;
song by the children of the Sunday
school; recitation, Everett Gustafson;
possesses special merit is sure of a re
ward. A striking aYray of medals is ta
be awarded by the American Poultry
association.
With three busy days yet ahead of
them, the executive board on duty at the
hall had little time for interviews this
morning, but all were confident that the
most successful show in 11 years ia in
progress. Edwin Keast ia acting aa su
perintendent of the door, and hia assist-
anta are William Olliver and Peter Park.
recitation, Victor Anderson; recitation, Secretary Charles Olliver is in charge of
Kerin Johnson.
After the program, the presents were
Iistnbuted bv the children.
BIG SHOE STOCK SALE.
Shea
Shoe Store Buys Stock of the
Homer Fitts Co.
One of the largest transactions in shoes
to be consummated locally in some time
was completed to-day when the stock of
shoes and rubbers in the Homer Fitt
store was transferred to the Shea Shoe
store. The Homer Fitt Co. ha lieen in
the retail shoe and rubber business for
the past 10 vears and the decision to
dispose of the tock waa prompted by a
desire to acquire additional space for
other linea maintained by the company.
Women 'a high grade boot and fine rub
bers featured by the Fitt company are
in the stock purchased by Mr. Shea, who
a always on the lookout for an opportu
nity to serve hi own outomer. The
purchaser, announcing bis purpose tocon-
t a sale. tatea that he haa pur. ha.1
the stork at such a low figure that he ci
eet to convert it into cash within 30 '
the registrations.
An armed guard denoted by the desig
nation, the pin feathers, has been as
signed to the duty of guarding eggs and
at the close of each day'a exhibit the ac
cumulation of hen fruit w ill tie placed in
a safety deposit box.
Some Awards Made.
By noon to-day the judges had com
pleted the following card:
Single-Comb Anconaa 1st cockerel, E.
R. Tarbox of Baire; 2d cockerel, F.. O.
Gould of Montpelier; 3d cockerel, H. P.
Allen of Barre; 4th cockerel. . p, Allen;
1st pullet. E. TwTarhox; 2d pullet, A.
Anderson of Barre: 3d pullet, H. P. Al
len; 4th pullet. E. R. Tarhm; 1st pen of
chick and 1st hen. E. R. Tarbox; be.t
haped male, E. R. Tarbox: best colored
male. E. O. Gould; best shaped female
and lst colored female, E. R. TarboT.
HufT Orpingtona 1st cork, Karl For
sell of Montpelier; 2d cork. J. P. Cor
skie of Barre; 3.1 cock, J. P. Corskie; 4th
cork. Morgan Rober-on of Boltonville;
st hen. Karl Korsell; 2d hen. .1. P. Cor
skie; 3d hen, K. Foraell; 4th hen, J. P-
Cor-kie: lt cockerel, IVmald Smith of
Larre; 2J cockerel, JL Roberon; 34 and
Bon-Accords Drank Silent Toast to Men
at the Front.
Good cheer abounded at tiro annual
banquet and dance of the Bon-Accord
football club in Clan uordon nan c nrist-
mas night, when the occasion called to
gether many members of the soccer out
fit as well aa a large number of guests.
All told more than ISO people dined on
the Christmas viands prepared by Mc
Millan & Petrie. Although it was a time
for rejoicing, the Bon-Accords, in the
midst of their Christmas merrymaking,
did not forget the absent brothers who
are with the colors in France. A bit of
Christmas cheer for the goldier-Bon-Ac-
eorda had been provided by the clul)
committee members, who dispatched sev
eral cartons of tobacco to the western
front some weeks ago. Nevertheless, at
the banquet, a silent toast was drunk
to the absent ones and thoughts ot uiose
who are giving their all in a cause wmcn
they deem just were in the minds of
many as the evening's program was car
ried through.
After the banquet there was an in
formal program of singing and nrici
inriM. followed later by dancing, m
i,:v .h nl.t time favorites as the
promenade and circle, the Edinburgh
quadrille, the Highland and uaioeic
Sdiottische, Lancers and Lightsome reel
were conspicuious. W. Keir and J.
Coutts were the floor managers and Dun
can McMillan, jr.. was in charge of the
program. The committee consi-ted of
George Mowatt. president, .). Cray. A. .
Cormack. secretary and treasurer. S. Sar
gent. J. Morgan, J. Eraser. .1. Mavor,
G. Mclean, W. lnnes and A. Ross.
MRS. LUCY SARGENT.
Elderly Woman of East Barre
Away Suddenly.
Passed
At St. Sylvester's church In Granite-
ville this forenoon funeral servicea were
held for Napoleon Lallower, whose death
in the City hospital Simday inoming fol
lowed injuries received in a mysterious
manner near tho awitchback on the Burro
4 Chelsea railroad Saturday night. 'The
parish priest. Rev. Joseph Turcot, waa
the officiating clergyman. The funeral
party gathered in the church at l o'clock
and after the services the body was tak
en to South Barre for interment in the
new St. Sylvester's cemetery. The bear
ers were Fred, John, Henry and Edward
nunie.
There remains an element of mvsterv
in the death, although the authorities
and the train crew in charge of the regu
lar Saturday night passenger train to
Millstone hill are generally satisfied that
Laflowcr met death either while tryinir
to alight from the train or when he was
attempting to get aboard after mistaking
the stop at the switchback for the usual
halt at Bond's crossing, near Webster
ville. The man spent the afternoon in
tho city Saturday and wa one of a
crowd of holiday shoppers who pot
aboard the week-end hill train at tho M.
& W. R. station around :20 o'clock. He
told Conductor Frank Bloiiin that he
wished to leave the train at Bond's cross-
ng, which is not far from the home of
lis sister, .Airs. Mayo, in lower Webster-
ville. Then he joined other passengers in
the smoking coach and that, so far as tho
trainmen were concerned, was the last
they saw of him until his mangled body
was picked up at the foot of a bank near
the switchback an hour afterward.
While the brakemen are shifting the
switches preparatory to the second long
pull upgrade, which begins at the switch
back, the train stops for a few moment.
This stop was made Saturday night and
it is believed that Laflower, in a moment
of confusion, thought that the train had
reached Bond's crossing. When the train
filially halted at the crossing, Laflower
was not among the passengers who
lighted from the smoking coach. At
Websterville, East Barre and Granite-
ille the usual quota of Saturday night
passengers were awaiting the arrival of
the train.
On the return trip to the city the train
topped once more at the switchback,
this time to wait for tho fireman and his
helpers to take on coal. Scarcely had the
train stopped when Engineer William
Rivait, glancing down the bank on the
est side of the track, saw a dark ob
ject that resembled the body of a man.
Conductor Blouin, Fireman W. Clark and
Brakemen C. W. Smith and George Co
loumb were soon joining the engineer in
is descent down the bank. Lying in tho
snow at the base of the incline they
found Laflower. A glance convinced
them that he was in a grave condition
and without waiting to take on coal, the
crew got aboard and hurried the train to
wrre.
At the station Dr. J. W. Stewart and
n ambulance were called. Laflower was
aken to the hospital. A cursory exam
ination disclosed a triangular scaip
wound and contusions about the chest
that indicated internal injuries. Laflow
er was in a semi-conscious state when
the trainmen reached him at the awitch
back and after he reached the hospital he
appeared to have regained his senses
fully, although he was unable to remem
ber any of the circumstances leading up
to his discovery in the snow at the
switchback. Grand Juror William Wish
art had been notified of the affair and in
the absence of the state's attorney, ho
acted for the state. Efforts were made
to get a coherent story from the man,
but if he recalled any of the incidents
that might have figured in Ais injuries,
he did not describe them to the authori
ties. He suffered considerably from the
chest wounds and as the evening wore on
his breathing became more and more dif
ficult. At 1:30 o clock Sunday morning
he passed away.
Meanwhile the dead man's sister had
been advised of the affar and she lost no
time in reaching the city. Early in the
morning the body was removed from the
hospital and in the afternoon Health Of
ficer Stewart directed an autopsy over
the remains. The post-mortem examina
tion confirmed the earlier diagnosis that
the most serious injuries were of an in
ternal nature. Three ribs had been frac
tured and the lower lobe of one lung was
punctured by the bone protuberances.
Soon after the train arrived in Barre,
General Manager J. N. (Jail ordered a
careful examination and members of the
train crew were questioned concerning
their knowledge of t ti man's condition.
It was evident that hi injuries, if they
were caused bv contact with the train,
did not proceed from any negligence on
the part of the trainmen, and the testi
mony of the men seemed to strengthen
the theory that laflower. mistaking the
switehluic'k stop for Bond's crossing, left
the train, took note of the unfamiliar
ndings and then tried to get aboard
. worron
airain. Just a the quarry train take
Mr. Lucy Sargent, an elderly resident j 0,jj jrrade leading from the switch
of East Barre, died suddenly thi fore- j bark the engineer put on full steam and
noon at 10:15 o'clock, being stricken j jt j likely that the fireman, had he not
with heart failure while seat il in a chair, wn busy shoveling coal, would have n
in the home of her daughter, Mr. Loella ! tired Laflower lying in the anow. On the
Pittslcy. where she wa residing. i return trip, however, the engineer was
Mr." Lucy (Cuttal Sargent a born ,,n the opposite side of the cab and in
on" the east hill in Barre and would j giant in? through the window saw the
have been year old her next birth-1 bdy plainly.
day. Her husband. Levi Sargent, died j fir ded'man wa a native of Owoper
U rears, ago and the only near relative ! rille. N. Y and came to Barre Town 17
survivinc ia her daughter. Mr. Pittsley. years ago. For many years he had bre
If i expected that the funeral will be'
h.i-l Thursday.
(Continued ob ft Jg-)
