t ah*J .n. pa , t E.."+L '3 * ,A #lll"' ' , , 3. A' "Y .-%
r 1 .. .. .wy. ?' r ,3 ' As h . {4.i, .W IYT"+r<u+t Jam.
T
AMI
AFL
S-T
Zo 77
LOW IE
FlH LINES
-Village of Bethincourt Evacu
ated Just Prior to Heavy
Attack on Verdun.
GERMANS HURLED BACK
Troops Under Tri-color Make
Valiant and Successful Re
sistance, Paris States.
Special Calb to The Washingte Herald.
ParIs, April 9.-The village of Bethin
court, forming the apex of the salient on
the western bank of the Mteuse against
which the Germans have been pounding
for days with heavy artillery and with
frequent infantry attacks, was evacu
ated by the French last night and today
the new line withstood the most furious
assaults which have been made by the
crown prince's army in many days.
As now established. the French line in
this sector runs from the Avocourt re
doubt along the wooded slopes to the
west of 11111 304, follows the l'orge:
Creek to the northeast of Haucourt and
joins the positions already held to the
south of the crossing of the Bethincourt
Esnes and Bethincourt-Chattancourt
roads. The evacuation of Bethincourt,
in Itself only a small ruined village, ham
had the effect of flattening the point of
the salient, although the successful
holding by the French of the line on the
Forges Creek to the west of Bethilcourt
and the line just south of the village
leaves a still very, pronounced salient
projecting into the German lines, with
the two very important hills, 304, easi
of Haucourt, and Le Mort Homme,
southeast of Bethincourt, within It.
Location of Dethineourt.
Bethincourt lies in the Forges Valley
at its junction with a valley running tote
the Forges Valley from the south and
was at the mercy of the German guns on
the hills at three sides. The new French
line skirts the higher ground te the
south, ..
From the Imeomptate Information now
awanable It seas probable that the vio
lent German attack on the western side
of the river today made simultaneously
with two eatremealy heavy assaults on the
eastern bank, thus practieally covering
the whole Verdun front, was undertaken
by the Germans as soon as they learned
of the withdrawal from Bethincourt. in
the hope of lading the new French line
in this sector not yet strong enough to
resist them,
The evacuation of Bethincourt has been
regarded by military experts some days
ago as a military necessity, since it was
evident that the group of ruins represent
ing the village was so situated as to make
It practically untenable under the pro.
tracted fire of the German heavy artil
lery.
The German commanders, anticipating
the withdrawal, appeared to have timed
their attack, which might almost be
called a- general assault on the Verdun
front, to coincide with the evacuation.
But the evacuation bad been eafely com
pleted in the nightgtfoops were waiting
in the new trenchesat the rear when the
attack finally was made this morning.
Twa Seeters Hard Hit.
Today's attack was centered against
two sectors on the western bank of the
river, one extending from the Bois Avo
court to the Forges stream, and the other
from Le Mot Homme to Sumleres.
Details of the fighting have not yet
been received, but the official announce
ment ir cates that it was of a most vio
lent character. At one peint. on the
southern edge of the Bais Avocourt, a
German assaulting coltsmn mained a tem
porary footing in a French position, but
was immediately driven out again by a
counter-attack.
Engineer Saves
Many Passenger.
Throws Brakes in Time tc
Prevent Fatalities When
Flyer Is Derailed.
Spacial to The Wahim Herald.
Thomaston, Coenn., April .-Fast think
ing by Engineer Carl H. Hohmes, ei
Waterbury, saved many lives today and
only sixteen people were Infered when his
New Haven road traIn, running thirty
six milee an hour' fronm Winsted te
Bridgeport. by way of Waterbury. was
deraIled by a half-open switch betwees
this town and Waterbury.
When cheat OS feet away frum the
switch frog at Jaicbe aidog wide had
becomse eimed with smew, ame.
Holomes betaane am~ps~am and the nats
lntant he threw en every ennes of alh
preure his brakes would take,
The mammea ot the Sluay seeial
was suddenly slackemed, and ealy the
eogtne. bagag. ear and two osdhnlefi
the rails.
"sT1 asa - et the ~eiy-ere
4...... he )2..... e..ee....
Natal Day with reps
By PAUL ERIC,
1. N. S. Ce..py-set With the 8rag e
the King of the B.iatas.
Paris, April 9.-King Albert
spent his birthday anniversary
with his troops at the front.
King Albert has not left the
remaining unoccupied Belgian
soil during the past eighteen
months except when he accom
panied President Poincare on
brief trips to the French front.
The Queen has been absent
from the King's side only four
days.
The King's entourage con
sists solely of four officers. The
Queen has dispensed with her
ladies in waiting and has only
a woman companion.
The Queen's whole day is
devoted to tending the wound
ed and taking care of refugee
children.
T. R. INVADES
NEW ENGLANE
Denies Political Significance
but Prophets Draw Dif
ferent Conclusions.
WILL ATTEND MEETING OF
HARVARD OVERSEERS BOARI
Later Colonel Will Be Present at Gath
ering of Crimson Alumni-Also
Will Visit Sons.
Bredal to The Washington Herald.
New York. April 9.-Col. Roosevelt let
New York at noon today for his brie
invasion of New England, and his las
words were that it was not an occupa
tion of a political nature, but a trip de
voted to Harvard meetings and heb
nobbing with social and literary frien4
He said that he would do his beat
keep all political callers from gethnl
within striking distance.
The prophets see in tls journey, how
ever, a signifcanee tpat ?rojamhltil
in view .t the elwMie
chsetts. where there is a factiepsal fgh
going on over the primary election o
delegates to the Republican convention.
After Monday and Tuesday in Boston
the Colonel will go to Farmington, Conn.
to spend Tuesday night with his stater
the wife of Admiral Cowles, and Con
necticut leaders have already remarke
this stay in the light of the growin;
Roosevelt sentiment in that State. I
other words, however the Colonel goer
political rumor precedes him, and politi
cal phenomena may spring up in hi
wake.
In Boston. the Colonel will stay at th
home of Sturgis Bigelow. Tomorrow s
will attend the meeting of the board a
overseers of Harvard, of which forme
Secretary of the Navy George von I
Meyer is the head, and later he will at
tend a meeting of Harvard alumni. On
of the social events of his stay will b
a meal he will take with his sons
Harvard undergraduates, and some a
their chums who are interested in pre
paredness and military training.
Capital People
See Ocean Rescue
Lieut. Baum and Capt. S. G
Hopkins Watch Guajara
Towed to Norfolk.
spreial to The Washigtoen Herald.
New York. April .-With water sem
ing into her hold, the steamship Gl
Jara, of the Loyd-Brasilian Line, wbie
left New York last Wednesday, is bein
towed into Norfolk, Va., by the passer
ger steamer Sixaola, of the United Frui
Line.
A wireless message received toda
from the captain of the Sixaola reporte
the plight of the Goajara. The Guajar
is a freight steamhip and has no pat
sencers. Acoerding to the massage sh
A in no daer and will be able to mak
port.
The Sissiea left New York on Frida
wttk semesfer Sentiago, Cuts
The e received today lndicate
ihe thu IN overteek the Guajara
few am@ miles south of Norfolk.
WatehIng the figit to save the si
ing Guajara from the decks of the Sixa
ola are Lieut. G. M. main, U. B. N., an
Mrs. Baum, bound ter Guantanamo, an
Capt. Skerburne 0. Hopkins.
a.e sa Rare Collection.
Oliver, Ga., April 9.-Mrs. John H, AsI
living near here, has an unusual coliec
itio of stuffed birds and aninals. The
are mouated in her parlpr and hal
reales and attract visitors. The collec
tieu lacudee owls. wildcats, squirrel
msla, herress, hawks, qluails. Jays
necking hird, bluebirds and thrushes.
Espet's Will laling.
New York, April 0,-Dr. Austin Flit
who se often has tesined s- to the in
eam19ee efteentaters, exeeted hi
e-u WWl ii ouch puwibs teris thea tih
-ossI caert se enasheS te een
pSna .
IS orusadera
ierring .alt
Five Thousand Feminists Cheer Twenty4 Irehpgsiswt
Leave on Special Train Carrying Apphid img E un.
chised Sisters to Work for Vote asam it.
With the cheers of ON6 persons ringing group ple ed to gupport natioe-wi4 ad
in their ears, twenty-four smfragists left (rage as the neatest pelitical questen
Union Station last evening in a private of the des.
car, bearing the title "Suffrage Special," The exzaisge at the station were moat
which will tour the Western suffrage picturesque. two bugler, aounded the
States during the next thirty-eight days, assembly for tOb Wathehing and a chorus
They go to appeal to their sisters with of severet hdW vet ess sang "AMr
the ballot to stand by the guns and de- lea" and. ''Omsrd. Christian Soldiers."
feat every candidate for any office who Then, with the Navy Yard Band playing
opposes the Susan B. Anthony amend- the "Marseillaess," the delegates marched
ment to the Constitution giving women between linos of thousands of suffragists
the right to vote. They will complete the to their car, which was soon whisked 1
formation of the Woman Voters' League away, headed for the West. There was a
by consolidating the Congressional Union took of "God speed you" on every face
branches in the voting States Into a CONTiNUED ON PAGE TWO.
Regal Robes of Blooded Terrier
Dragged in Dust by Plebeian Dog
Sepral to The Washington Hrid. urday. he,.wore a costly plush robe
New York, April 9.-Junior, a blood- with his naee woven in silver letters
ed Boston terrier owned by Mr. and on the side.
Mrs. K. D. Slavens, of Missouri, guests Junior did not put on any airs with
at the Hotel Majestic. was attacked the hotel attendants, although be fa
near the Seventy-second street en- the Western winner of many dog
trance of Central Park this afternoon slow prises, but he did set a little
by a mean, low-down specimen of supercilious this afternoon wben be
plain dog that was unattached. passed the mangy mongrel Gear the
When Mr. Slaves' English valet, park entranpe,
who took Junior out for an airing. The New York canine loeked con
succeeded in separating the plebeian teniptuously at the regal trappings and
from the aristocrat, the latter's tail at the valet at the other end of the
had a tooth mark near the tip and his iea'h. growl'1and rushed in.
collar of gold was minus one of its The fight didn't last long. Junior
three diamonds. It was not a big lost his rob, his dignity and his
diamond, but it was a real sparkler diamond Is Iteea seconds, and when
and the valet was unable to find it. the astonished valet pried off the New
,When Junior arrived at the Majestic Yorker, the Westerner was howling
t with his master and mistress on Sat- piteousl).
SEE DELAY IN NE TROOPS
SUSSEX CASE C SE STRIPE
lals Here Expect to Take Texas Shoots Soldier
No Action for Several and.tT
Dys.
t r
tBERLIN'S DENIAL OF GUILT TEXANS INFORM BAKER
CAUSE OF TEMPORARY HALT AIM ASK FOR RELIEF
State Department Hampered by Non- War Secretary Orders Iavestigation
arrival of British and French and Steps Taken to Prevont Fur
Evidence. ther Trouble at Del Rio.
I. It was announced In authoritative Serious trouble has developed between
- quarters last night that Germany's de- the colored troops of the Twenty-fourth
s nial of responsibility for the Sussex dis- Infantry and residents at Del Rie, TcX.,
aster will delay settlement of the sub- according 'o a telegram received here
e marine issue. last night by Representative Gardner, of
a After a day's study of the situation in Texas, and referred by Mr. Gardner to
f the light of the German government's Secretary of War Baker. The telegram,
r positive disclaimer, officials reached the signed by District Judge Joseph Jones,
" conclusion that the United States, as a District Attorney C. C. Belcher, and
- matter of plain justice, will have to pro- Sheriff John W. Ammond. declares that
s ceed with the utmost deliberation before the trouble at Del Rio started following
a taking any action. the shooting of a soldier of the'Twenty
The official text of the German govern- fourth Infantry by a member -of the
f ment's reply to Ambassador Gerard's In- Texas fangers. It adds that a large
quiry In the Sussex case was not rdceiv- nmer of negia soldiers of the Twenty
ed'yesterday. Officials have been advis- feurth Infantry surrounded the ranger's
ed of its nature, however, in preliminary house, firing volleys of shots, but with
dis etches from Mr. Gerard. They are out casualties. The telegram urged that
withholding official announcement of the steps be taken at once to prevent blood
h government's plans until the reply is shed.
received. Immediately upon the receipt of the
The significant statement was made in telegram the Secretary of War tow
highest official quarters today that no graphed Mal. Gen. Funston to make es
definite action will be taken in the sub- Investigation and to take sts to obvi
marine matter for several days. ate the possibility of further trouble at
This means that the administration Del Rio. Secretary Baker also directed
will not reach final conclusions mt er that a full report of the incident be seat
Cabinet meeting tomorrow, as aan ger. him withaot delay.
vieasgy been Ininated. ubereeory eaker in announcing the
tiAher factor in preventing speedy sloe tacst is this case, declared that
- laetrt of the isrue with Germany the only evidence he had as to the a a
ho s d n of the trouble was that friction had
French evidence, and the eM eted tk the negio troop blUd
-Americans. The State Deprtn me s ei @_fa Del Rio.
derstood that the steamer St. Paul, n ?is ma tl similar to that which
which this evidence was sent, was due occured Maj. Gears age at Brown
y to dock at New York yesterday. It ha talk. Tex., wea segro troops quartered.
been learned, however. that the St. Pa there engaged I a fight with civilians,
In that case the trouble was stirred up
will not reach New York until Thursday. by racial animosities.
e FIFTY ELK LAfTD. TO ARRAIGN WAITE TODAY.
Animals Are Turnsd Les io Aol. rrets Declares Poisoner tow
y rodeek Preserve Able to rov- to Tomb,
Alan.N.Y. pi9-Ffy ban ndla ew Yorry Akr in.-r Anourcn thre
ther elowtoe nina Prkntvegseedy Wate, will. in allhik aeh, e tat
serve in accordane with Geman theons. terron for pha as'to t he u
dr ofEso the S tthe anddo the usa 1hsftr-blew, Jhn frck.add
AmerTans. heaSttehe Dxetatio.fAsitn
coerodat the omssteamer the Pue. Tisc Aore Pooling todtay, whoc
tio an nraeo l nteA ir n sathat aethetbe was irracondtio
Th wilk ort re Ne y expTresday frmys mred antostesTe.
Garde ELKnt. yes er. fen ye TsOu AEAIGNATE TODAYi'.
Abano'~ y. vN.Y.Arl9ft elk frcomerte n h
liberoacnthk drndc ors r
sare nacrancoe wi their ca ma n- ~msr WoeAogo ae
stitutldib the ontaPocins Or
deroEksofte _Staean thee Stats iarpton
conceewithion coolorsihasfoeenhefprodeto
u tionn in.as Aprilk in-hea Cdra- insGere renbthtiualt
ford anIndutrius jnk ntheer Sewrnes. GreprleDe. Ar ath Warn
thisolty loes nne o hi pro t Whte.e li n abjectionhod, bie mad
rairoasII.loas in astwih 15th ran thatr Jue ra n of d enerof
pounds ofimdattrment cdawhengwhaterwithlthenmuPeen
am~ gad~ace ood ~~Uso te Cl et hs flawt eal Jhn E.W Peck wa
I ba'e gewlag ~ fl~ho Thle is was o the ecain ofy Assistan
~3ae~h3iD~yipsr Attoney YDlin tda.h
Garner Mnt. yeteday Fiten yar -gg g --~ -ggg
y FLOYD P. IGISRON.
Wt Gen, Pershing at Front
at San Antonio, Chihuahua, on
jaraApril 9.-(Yia Radio
Columnbus)-Fifteen prison
ere taken by the advance
masm. as suspected Villistas
are doing mach to turn the
sentiment of the natives in
favor of the Americans on ac
count of the treatment received
by the prisoners.
The American dollar is bring
ing many Mexican merchants
with their goods into our camps
as the column penetrates the
territory reached by the South
ern railroads.
Gen. Pershing is in receipt
of information from his ad
vance columns which declares
the pursuit of Villa is now to
the 'south of here and reports
all men and horses well ac
climated by this time and in
excellent condition.
INHALES GAS
TO END GRIEF
Aged German Cannot Bear
Loss of His de of
Thirty Years.
WUis DEA1W gat EUDUJG
'.LANE F MIS C WEN
August Niebel. 65, Found Dead in 4
Bedneam by Sea-Ceatiscate
of Suiide Issued.
August NIebel, I years old, who pined F
ton manths for sie dead wife. killed him
self with gas is his hams. 7 G street
northwest. Naturday night. Niebel, a
German, attompted suicid4e New Zear's
day, his sa said but nt. A certams.
of suleide was given yesterday by
Coroner Nevitt.
rA -Mame wife, t w . he had
hinrty ears,'e 'us I.
Shocked by her death. he never recove ed
from his grief. His three children and
several grandchildren, during the long
months of his widowerhood, tried vainly
to detraet the old man from despondency.
A ciose watch was kept upon him for
fear he would attempt his life. It was
due toin* vigllance that Niebel was
foet inhaling gas New Year's day and
saahoied from death. His daughter and
a iWhbor discovered him.
NNhel retired to his room early Satur
day. night. About 9:30 o'clock, the son.
Ernsat Niebel, went to his room, but be
fore retiring. looked into the bedrooim of
his father. Satisfied all was well, the
sea returned to his bed.
at s o'clock yesterday morning, the son
aated gaa He investigated and found
ht 6 her dead. Gas was flowing from
two. open jets.
Mr. Niebel was born In Wurtemburg.
bueay, sixty-five years ago and came
to this country when he was i.
htwenty-five years ago, he opened a cork
seieg and glassware shop at I1 Four
aale-balf street southwest. His business
W prosperous. He retired four years
go5.
He is survived by three children. Ernest
Qilsbel, Mrs. Annie Murphy and Mrs.
Marie Murphy. Funeral services will Be
bd tomorrow at 2 o'clock at Lee's
ehapel. The body will be cremated and
the ashes interred in Prospect Cemetery.
Woman Accused
Of Being Witch f
ew Jersey Invokes Old Law
Against Pastor of Spir
itualistic Union.
Spetial to The Wsaingto Ilaraid.
Newark. N. J., April 1.-The days of
witchcraft may have passed, but, in
the word of Kipling. "the roots of sin
are there." "There" in this case means
this city, where the witchcraft act has
been invoked against Mrs. Sadie S. Dart
ing, pastor of First Progressive Spiritual
Church.
-Mrs. Darling says she never invokes
breensticka, black cats nor demons of
ear'th or air, and acclaims herself a reg
ularly ordained -minister of religion'.
But the police persiat in their accusa
tion of mwitchcraft, and Judge Howard A.
Grice has reserved judgment until he can
look up the penalties the dead and song
IeglslIitors of New Jersey devised for thea
punishment' of alleged witches,
Greek Piance Xinister Qaits.
Lenden. April 9.-Stephen Dragoum's, a
Greek minister of Gancme. has resIgned
because of the depletg of the treeary,lj
according to the Athens correspoadentji
of Reouter's. Former Premter RallS is
bis successor, .
Great War Events Immisest.
Codeahegmn, April 9.-The Dagenny-.
heder today sas that greet- events area
hnusat in the war, It adds that inl
view ost the cmaeagr efenaive by the en- I
2 DAYS BEHIND VILLA
o Official Reports Received from Advance
Guard, but Messages Over Mexican
Telegraph Give Brief Details.
PARRAL IS LEFT FAR TO REAR
ining Company Comes to Relief of Expedition with Money
and Suppim-Vdla Headed for
-Mesa Sfmi.
. v H. H. STANSBURY.
ist.uer.a...l e.s. sefe
El Paso, Tex., April 9.-"Lost in the wilderness" would accurately
kescribe all that is known of the whereabouts of the American ad
ance forces in Mexico tonight, if the official reports were the only
Lependeace for news.
Uno 1eial messages received over the Mexican telegraph lines
ell that col. George A. Dodd and his tired command rested near Parral
ast night sad resumed the chase south of that point this morning.
VILM TWO-DAY e1E aWEA3
Villa is said to be fully a two-days' ride ahead of his pursuers. He
heading for the Mesa Sandias, in the state of Durango, and is ex
ected to follow the trails leading into the Candela Mountains and the
eadwaters of the Nazas River.
The trails which parallel the Nazas lead over a tortuous route into
he Torreon district, for which Villa has been striving to make et er
ince giving up the idea of taking the city of Chihuahua a week ago.
Troeps Without Supplies.
#JRN E N VIT A L When the advance forces pulled up at
Perral last night thev were without sup
GTO piles, and the commanders had exhaust.
ed the emergency funds with which food
stuffs could be purchased. The represen
tatire of the Mines Company of Ameriea
rove Salvation of Entire Ex- turned over the ommissary as wet as
pedit )n When Wireless all undso hand.~
ahe unds of the transactions r"
celved here by ofeibls of the romp.,.
I'ms loww' furnish the basis for the inforrnati.n
that the drive to the southward has b..,
0 e exact location of Gen. John J
Pershing is mknown either at Tolumi
of Se hAspni.' ie r of 1
ven Out-of-Dale Aeroplanes Used expoditdenary- forces flashed a m--,
Across Border Have Been Eyes to Gen. Funton from Cases ,rar
early Sunday morning. ti had been r.
and Ears of Troops. layed to that point b, aero.n f-an
somewhere 3ll miles south
By GEORGE S CLEMENTS. Ut-rget Request Made.
Field headquarters, punitive expedition The message contained an urent r' -
rnlted States Army, near Colonia Dub- guest for an immediate anl"rT. Ger.
in, Mexico, April 8, by motor to Colum- F'untton Is understood to hav'e reph...
pa, N. Mex., April 9.-The aeroplane has that he could not answer tt unt1 a d4
sen the salvation in the Pershing expe- cision coeld be obtained from Washieg
Ition Into Mexico. Other things have ton. There Is no clew to the character
ten needed, but without communication of the request. unless it oealt with an
n army is as poorly situated as without urgent necessity of the proposed new
wod. line of communication eouth from th.
The wireless has been undependable border at Ojinsga or the taking over of
ince the expedition started. hence the the Mexican Central Railroad.
ying machine, out of date as are those The army strategists here believe ao
i the possession of the army. has been -thority has been requested to use a smaa
he eyes and ears in the army virtually strip of narrow-gouge railroad which
f every important matter since Mexico runs from Parral to Mesa Sandias. The
as entered. line Is owned by Pittsburgh and Borton
"Here comes a flier.' we used to shout capitalists and extends as far as kilo
i the earlier days of the campaign. It meter D in the elsat Durango
rets an age since we settled down on The Americas cavalry horses has
his dusty plain, but we take the arrival demonstrated that they can negotiat
f the airmen in a more matter-of-fact the mountain trails as well as the
canner now. We did not cry out be- Mexican ponies, but the problem is
ause of the novelty of the arrival of a food, food. always food.
tessenger of the air, but because the purchasing agents have been scar
irman was the bearer of news, no mat- tered among all the large settlements
Sr which direction he arrived from. within reach of the line of couaI
If he came from the south, there was cation with Americaa gold to buy
chance he would carry tidings which everything the men and horses an
rouki form the basis of a dispatch to eat. The money Is accepted In some
ur newspapers; if he flew in from the places and in others it I. refused.
irection of "God's country," it might As a result of purchases made in
nean he brought letters from home. Chihuahua City, foodstuffs have trebled
The bringing of the heavier-ti c,-air in price and the value of Carranau
ying machine to even its present state money has been reduced to nothing
f perfection has revolutionised many The :torekeepers are demanding
hases of warfare, more particularly In Idoneda Americano or Mexican
he matter of securing information re- silver.
arding the movements of the forces of
he enemy, and in the matter of keeping C
u touch with your own headquarters.
win s ondyP In Straw Vote
E. c.lKean 0fers itsetioa In A Citaga R endbi ans Put T. R.
of Aviamien.ter ntttet mg
New York, April T.-John T. Sloane an- Far Ahead of Other
ounced today that he will teach aviation
Itone militia officer fros each of tent
ttes in the art of preparedness. - -
Mr. loan is .00in-lw ofThomod. food. alway-vfood
Edisn. le ha ben neresed i PChcaigIl, Aentl haver eun sea
tenuiafr e rlyar n ln rm ampostng ballt f large gott e-t
ope a chol f aiaton t heea- uwihinrac on P ntln faoies co uni
s a nadto oteoearayconut b withtAmereasn-e g ergei. iy
panda adnCt.erthagth R meel and theo isca
MitcelLmd. Apil -GergeCoo er, t. the reis receted a inad one
labrerlivng ort ofthi ciys pte ates ~and in tersen ut. s r e e
ete faohrsto wf As n esul more tha rhasae mae oin
a aredaltl moeta nine ne ic as nd hie. aue ofgCrdathe
er n i iehspeetdhmonr resthas been duced toir oices
The sretoheeksespofrwinsThedtinandtheg
s-a doig wellta"M ues, Am eran, or; Mexian
thle res. cteig
Coaga UpDenaloloneel-__First_
NhesYok, W . April 9.-Johhiloa e n-oneSaig i
uttern militan atac f geach Oo'a ten aols in. p- 3- e
tate an thareton bre sieness a ht es ae telvso iepr
Mir.d atotne top a f one -a aof Thomas roek cuhtfre h
oa pEd oHe ha benwa bneested mnetnwo h asfc i
o eryngic o sveal yars candl plas 1adaaeedtem~e.
seld Bayi badalamedotheehoneeaoread
