5$tm.
THE WEATHER F
Fair and warmer, to-day and
westerly ,
lair
in.
Highest temperature yestel
Detailed weather, mall and rhar
kon.pt
PRICE TWO CENTS.
VOL. LXXXIII. NO. 223.
NEW YORK, MONDAY, APRIL 10, 1916. Conirfff.f, 1916. by Um.Stin Printing and PubHthtng AaoelaUon.
IT SHINES FOP ALL
ON HOT TRAIL,
IS ONLY WORD
FROM BORDER
Gen. Pershing Silent on
Hunt lor Villa South
of Sutevo.
rillKKTAIX NOW PAST
ALERT ENGINEER SAVES TRAIN.
WatctiftilneM Prevent I.om of Mfe
on rr Haven.
TltOMASTO.v. Conn.. Anrlt 9. -Fast
thinking by Engineer Carl II. HolmeH
of Watcrbury saved many Uvea to-dny.
Only three passengers were Injured when
ins train on the New Haven railroad,
running thirty-five miles an hour from
Wlnsted to Bridgeport, wan derailed by
a half open switch between thla town
and Waterhury.
when about 400 feet awny from me
switch at Jericho Hiding, which had be
come clogged with frozen Know, Knglner
Holmes Haw that something wan amiss
and threw on every ounce of air preesuic
IiIh lirakeH would take.
With the momentum of the Sunday
special thus checked only the engine,
i baggage car and two coaches left the
, talK
j The engine went down an embank
ment, rarrylng with It Knglneer Holmes
and IiIh llrcman. but they were not
Til' V 1)1,1 W " K 1M PftlYP i seriously Injured. The engineer-was cut
J ' I J ' IJ I I , IIIjLUIil Wien he wan hurled through the cab
1 window. " ,
j The injiiieil weie Kelward Has-son of
., . I Torrlngton. left leg hrukeu; Domlnlck
WllSOII - (. It lTil 117.11 AtTl't't'- Kenchawek of Wlnsted. broken Jaw, nnd
Mrs. Heglna Wynglsl of Wlnsted, left
moil t on 'Flirt host South,' li,,ee ractwed.
t
AUTO MAN COLLIDES 1 SAYS BARNES SEES 1 GERARD CONFIRMS
WITH "FOOL LAWS" T. R. INEVITABLEl GERMANY'S DENIAL
H. If. Johnston, Henil of Deal
ers' Association, Writes
Complaint, to Mnynr.
HITS AT UCKNSIXtS HILL
Jlm'vnnl 'Oil Dinner Story Jtc
lnted as Colonel Heiii-hes
Host on.
KOOSEVKLT IS KET1CKST
Sn.vs ntl.OOO .Motorists llnek
UN Views in Tellinp: About
Hunch of Troubles.
El Paso Honrs.
TO PRESERVE BOMB HOLE.
Carl.
With fins'. PtirMiiiMi at Sa.v An-)
TONIO. MKMCU. MA liAPIO TO COLUMBUS',
N. M., April !. Fifteen prisoners,
Uken by the advance column an mis
peeled Vllllstus, urn doing much to
turn thn sentiment of native In favor
of the AmurlciinM on account of tbc
treatment received by tho prisoners.
The American dollar Is bringing many
Mexican merchants with their goods
Into our en m 1 w ns the column pene-
tru c-e territory retched by southern 1
rn.lt oael.
Gen. Pershing, who has received In
formation from the advance- columns, '
declares put. -nit is hot to the south of i
hete and reports nil men nnd horses
well acclimated and In excellent con
dition. The General pushed forwarrd
fifty miles In hLs automobile on Sat-
Uliliv.
U. S. COMPACT WITH
CARRAXZA REPORTED
Will (nmrrt Onr Inln n
Xulmny Veiil'lntnr.
ptcntt Cnhle fletpatci to Tim Stv
P.vtils. April !'. The Municlp.il Coun
cil has decldeil not to till up the hole In
the city subway roof caused by a bomb
dropped from a Zeppelin in the last raid.
The Council Intend". Instead, to con
vert It Into an air hole for the subway,
thus also keeping a souvenir of the
visit.
BURGLAR IN ZIEGLER'S
HOME TAKEN BY MAID
Arrests Intruder So Quietly
Diners Know Nothing of
Her Captive.
A Manr of Manhattan and environs,
particularly a Mayor elected on a fusion
ticket, may bo.nt that so many kinds
of tioubles ease their way Into the City
Is (Sreeted by Literary Men
He Won't Discuss
Politics.
Berlin Disclaims Sussex At
tack and Justifies All of
the Others.
INVITES MORE NOTES
Reply Indicates Willingness
to Curtail U Boat Operations
I'nder Compromise.
SA Y GERMANS DESERTED
BRITISH PRISONERS IN
THE TYPHUS EPIDEMIC
Sufferers Fed Through Chutes, Many Died From
Neglect, and German Chief Medical Officer Got
Iron Cross, Asserts Official Report.
Hostos-, April !. "1 am not going to
Mo a single politician and I am not
going to have a slrulc thing of a politi
cal nature to say while I am here," de-
Hall and then lean upon his Honor's . dared Theodore Itoojevelt when he
shoulders for the rest of the day that i alighted fioin the New York ttuln at the
there ate no troubles left to bother any Huntington avenue station a few
one else. Hut Major Mitchel may take minutes after H o'clock to-nlglit
Washington. April 9. Ambassador
Gerard's reply from the German Foreign
Office on the submarine Issue has at
Inst reached President Wilson.
As expected, It Is a general disclaimer
of all responsibility on the part of Ger
many for the attack on the Sussex.
Secretary Lansing described It to-night
Automobile Dealers Association, that arrive! a story was calculated mil
there are. others. 'William Hainr of Albany has made the
Mr. Johnston while soiling "lit somo 'statement that he believes Itooscvlt will
It from It. II. Johnston, president of the I However, as soon as Col. F.oosevelt ' ns a preliminary reply and not the otll
clal answer to the Information which
the United State is seeking from Ber
lin. Hut It Is understood that the In
formation already receded from Mr.
Gerard sets forth Germany's attitude as
clearly as enn be eocted.
Germany was not responsible for the
disaster to the Channel boat Sussex : no
German submarine whs near the place
at the time; Germany was justified In
sinking the freighter Kngllehman and
claims Justification for sinking other
freighters engaged In aiding the enemy
theso are described to-nlglit as tne
bo nominated by the republicans for the
Presidency and mat In that event he
would support him.
The repott came from two Harvard
graduates who attended a dinner given
by the New York member of the class
of ldSiS at Hie llaivard Club In New
York about tluee week" ago. Mr.
I tar lies In a member of tho Ns clnes nnd
was at in.) oinner. . .... . , ,, bh-
When the Albany politician and editor j '"" -
was called upon for a few remarks, tho j
story I", he asked that the waiters leave llrerlliit of I le.lr.
the room. saying he hoped he would be I Thev are iiccomnanled by the leaeser-
pardoned for discussing matters of n ; tlou of the pledges which Germany has
political nature. Mr llames then went
on to state, according to the report here,
that he was confident Theodore Itoose
velt was to be the Republican nominee
ninl thai If he was he would give him
his unreserved support.
'The Mrnilllrl Cnndhlnlr."
made to the Culled States not to "lriI tlio camp. The report sas:
passenger ships without wnrning anu
are interwoven with the usual expres
sions of good will toward America, de
sire for friendship with the Cnlted
Slates Government and expressed In
clination to come to an amicable under
standing with the Cnlted States on
Yllln
of
VI roll while lo ;!
'.HPiiln'a -IO, OIM Mr li.
Cuirvio April P. Tho rribiiue to- '
morrow, under nn Kl Paso date, will 1 In their apartment on the eighth floor of
print the following;
Mr and Alls. William X.legler will
necr worry about burglars while they
have l.lr.2le Stcrnheck as maid. One
visited tho Zlegler apartment yester
day, but when Llrzle Slcrnbcck got
through with him h was locked up In
tho Kast Sixty-seventh street station.
Not until then did Llrile tell the Zleg
lers about it.
While tho Zloglcrs were at dinner
IVancisco Villa has escaped any
chance of beim: raptured by the Ameri
can punlllve expeilltliiii. He has cros-wd .
II... .1 u.nl.ll.v...l 1... '
o.j rarK avenue, one vi ur m
Mr. Zlegler has bought recently, the
maid went to her room. She found the
door locked nnd, unlocking It. was con
fronted by a man who told her nercety
a .lead line Unit uus established hv to shut un or he would kill her,
sgrernientx between President Wilson l.lxtle Sternbeck Is only 20 years old.
n-l President Carranna of Mexico. I She obeyed the command to shut up and
This information r.une out for,, the In absolute silence picked up the rather
first time tonight: It was tnM-trr Con- frail btfrglaf W hn.'k and the alar
mi Andreas u.uci.i and other high Car- of his trousers ,,nd rushed him. vainly
re i .i otnelalM exclusively to the reprc- kicking and wriggling, downstairs In tho
s-ntaie of the Chicago rHbinie. elevator and out to the servants en-
This means that the American troops trance. Patrolman Vlnk beheld the
will be wlihdrawn. Humors have been "iK'H f"'" corncr ""a voluntceicl
Viffiei t on the border for several da his ser-i lees.
'Jr.l Washington would iec.II tho troo . . , 'Y. ;"'ran ,,i,Ur ''lln;., 7 ' rj,"';
'fro.. .MeMc. This Is the llrst authorl- , '-' "? ,,ul "r l,riUn' ,,Ut 111
tat v- Information that backs uj. these ";. ,u, ,lrrll,.ll
' oll'lcer. Iho captive and the maid, where
tumors.
When i in- Aii.erlr.in soldiers went Into
MiNi o there Wiitu seep t .agreement be
te.' W.isliPigioti ninl trranz.i that
V1' should en no further smith than tlm
Inmle" line between the States of Chi
hii'liu. ..ml Iniraiign. The dead line
l h ilhi American troops were not to
cri.'H lies between the towns of llaborl
Kin" nut iviiallo", extending east and
i t o ross a xery 1 trge part of Mexico.
she nude a charge of burglary and the
prisoner shamefacedly gae his name
as Walter Scliurman, 2", of 20." IVast
Korty-llfth street. After promising to
appear against him In court to-day
l.lnle Sternbeck went back to tell Mr.
and Mrs. '.legler that while they ale
she hail caught a burglar and so quietly
that dinner had not been disturbed.
Mr lt.-irnrs said that bis Inuulil-s bad i he bas: "f " present German prom- I 1P (-onna tatt
of his favorite troubles recently tame
upon so many which especially appealed
to him that he deciiltd to bunch them
together under the general title of "A
llulness Man's tjulet Afternoon In New
York" and mall them m Mayor M.lchel.
Accompanying the list of Mr. Johnston's
pet trouble for a given afternoon was
a letter of protest In which the presi
dent of the dealers' association said that
he voiced the views of a cltyful of mo
torists who can't start their cars with
out colliding with a lot of fool laws.
The particular afternoon which Mr.
Johnston complains to the Mayor was
Just one darn thing after another was
last l-'rlda. The automobile man
might have assembled his mishaps and
mailed them to Mayor Mitchel a day or
so earlier than be did If It weren't for
the fact that he was so busy blng
troubled on Friday he didn't have time
for anything else until some time Satur
day. T
!? Motorists Back Vlem.
Itefore getting down to the details of
his "quiet afternoon" Mr. Johnston be
gan by telling Major Mitchel that about
"0,000 or sn.OOO motorists lure who do
not employ chauffeurs are on.- with the
Automobile Dealers Association In op
polng a bill now pending at Albany
which requires the licensing of all op
erators of motor cars, The letter con
tinues In part: .
"We believe that there are already so
many laws and ordinances that no cltl
len can possibly keep track of them.
We know that every bill which Increases
the powers of any depattment Is quickly
followed by an Increase In the number
of emplojeca of that department."
V'hatex-er troubles boiled and bubbled
uuunil, Sir. Johnston during tho tore
Tioori'la Krlday he pissed them up In
his letter nnd started In with the stroke
of 12 o'clock noon. At that hour, so
he wrote Mayor Mitchel, be bail to be
In the Appellate KUIsion of the Supreme
Cmic In li.tite all i.rmiment 111 file "oil
separator" case In which his association I morrow al'o. To-night, he explained, j President's representations has been an
ts Interested. Julice Phllbln had or-. there were to lie two guests at dinner, . tlclpated for nearly two weeks. Count
tiered that the merlfji of the nutomobtle I who. It was stated, were merely pr-' Vnn Herritorff, the German Amln
men's contentions about the worthlessiu-s . son il friends nnd not interested )n any dor. made it clear soon after the Susex
of Hi.! "oil separator" be tried In open I way In iudP.es. disaster that Germany attributed the
eo.in An anneal hv the city had' . disaster to u UrltWh mine rather than a
SptcltUablr Denmlch to Tnr. Sen.
London. April . The Foreign Office
Issued to-day a comprehensive report of
the Government committee on the treat
ment of British prisoners of war' at the
German prison camp at Wittenberg
during the typhus epidemic last year.
The rVport make eighteen typewritten
pages and Is signed by Justice Younger,
chairman of the committee. It Is based.
upon information collected from re
patriated prisoner of war, Including
Major Priestley and Capts. Vldat and
Lauder, all officers In the Roj-al Army
Medical Corps.
It discuses a story of terrible suffering
and privation under the most appalling
conditions. After describing the loca
tion of the camp, which occupies an nrea
of about ten and a half acres In which
some tti.OOO or 17.000 prisoners aro con
fined. Including HritMl, Krenoh, Hel
glaiis ar.d Huslans, the report states
that "overcrowding wa mot serious."
I.rft the Prisoners.
Tjphus appeared In December. 1!"H.
"Thereupon," continues the report, "the
German Staff, military and medical, pre
cipitately left the camp, staying away
until August. 1911."
During that period communication be
tween nrlsoners and euards was made by
guards or officers shouting Instructions
from the outside wlte entanglements of
FRENCH QUIT
SALIENT WEST
OF THE MEUSE
Kvacualioii of Itctliiiicourt
Followed by Furious
All Day Battle.
Kngland at a laler date. Thete wns no
aoap forthcoming.
It wan to Major Prlcstlej's great
powers of organization and devoted
labors as well as to the strong person
ality of C'apt. Vldul and, after his re.
cox-erj', to the f-pletidld work of dpt.
Lauder that the gradual improvement
of condltloi.H wiim ilne.
They were splendidly fuipported by '
many Hngllsh prisoners who volunteered
rySn a'Tdled.1'' FllOtillg at OllC J'oillt,
only during the wholt. course of the
GERMAN'S FAIL TO
BREAK NEW LLXB
but Are Dislodged by
All suniilles for the men weie pushed
Into the camp oer chutes, while food
for the hospital and medical officers
passed In on a trolley so as to avoid all
contact between the prisoners anil the
outside world No medical attention
during the whole time was piovlded by
lse.
In response to Pifsldent Wilson's In
sistence that American rights be pro
tected. Germany calls his attention to
some technical differences between pas
senger eairjlng ships and freighters. In
response to tlie President's Insistence
that the principles of humanity for which
he Is fighting be recognized. Germany
Invites him to look at the. whole matter
through German eyes.
The whole tenor of Gerninnj-'s attitude,
as described here. Is to invite further
friendly dlscu-slou and again bring the
trlis to the note writing stage.
There Is no Indication to-night that the
President has weakened In his decision
to force on accounting with Germany on
tho basis of the attacks on the Sussex.
the Englishman, the Manchester hint-
shown that l!ooeelt w.is the stroncest
man In tho country to-day and that
sentiment w,i for him everywhere. In
certain sections of the West, Mr. Itarnes
Is quoted as sajlng, It had been found
there were four times as many voters
favorable to T.oosevelt as there were for
all the other 'mentioned" cmdlJateJ
put together.
This story na first told by or.e grad
uate and afterward confirmed by the
other,
When Col. Kooeelt arrlvid to-night,
except for a few newspaper reporters
and photographers, the only persons on
band were Dr. W. Sturgls lllgelotv. whose
guest the Colonel Is during his two night
stay here, and a few others who had
uoiie to the station to meet friends.
The Colonel shook hands heartily with , ,, p.ai.' Point anil the Herwln
Dr. Higejow and. uion reaching the . lIltIff n,r President has made It known
limousine, sfoml with his foot on the I (j.t le woulil nt r?unie Ills. .Hplomatlc
running noam wnne ne aneren ic- ,,,,. n dealing with the latest develop
porters ipie-tions,
Medical nrrnngements at Wittenberg
were under the charce of Dr. Aschen-
bach and his German aslstants. all of
whom (led at the outbrtak of the epi
demic, leaving a number of Russian and
French doctors, but no llrltlsh.
In the middle of IVbruai.v. 1915. six
llrltlsh medical officers, Including Major
Priestley and Captains Vldal and
Lauder and Major Fry nnd Captains
Sutcllffe and Field were tent to Witten
berg from Halle, where they had ticen
detained since the previous November.
I liable lit Hear the Muht.
What greeted them on their arrival
at the camp Is beM told by tho repoit;
"They visited the different compounds
and were received In aathetle silence.
The rooms were unllghted, the men aim
lessly marching up and down, some ly
ing on the floor, probably sickening of
epidemic did Dr. As-ehelibach enter the
hospital, or ven the camp. His visit
took place four weeks after Major
Prlestley'n arrival, and after some kind
of order had been evolved. He came1
nulled In a complete Milt of protective
clothing. Including a musk and tubbec ,,,,. . T
gloves. H.h lscc was brief and . TEL TON S LOSE TR EN CH
rnp.o.
For bin services In combating the,
epldemlu the committee understands Dt.
Aschcnbach has been uwarded the Iron
Cross. With this exception no visit
was paid to the camp during the whole
outbreak by any member of the German
medical hcrvlee. The dead were bulled
In a cemeteiy formed In the camp. What
tho prisoners found hardest to bear were
the Jeers with which the i-olllns were
frequently greeted by the Inhabitants of
Wittenberg, who stood outside the wire
and were permitted to Insult the dead.
Counter Attack.
SOl'Tir OF DOUAUMOyJ!
1KI Yards Taken by Frencli
Fifflitinji" Alonjr Whole
Verdun Front.
Simplest UriiHK Not Provided,
Yet for months the plague stricken
camp was starved of the barest neces
saries of existence ahd the simplest
drugs nnd was not eeen provided with
surgical dressings for patients with
wound.
('apt. Vldal ajs that the conditions
were thoroughly realized by the German
authorities without any ' effort being
made by them to bring about an Im
provement. After the outbreak had spent Itself
and the German guards r turned to camp
Major Priestley nnd dpt. Vldal were
allowed to visit the town of Wittenberg
irvi"t i.nhlt ll'tpatrli lo Tnr. iv
Paris. April 9. The village of Belhln
court, forming the apex of the salient on
the western bank of tho Aleusc, against!
which the Germans havo been poundlngf
tnr days with heavy artillery nnd wltli
fiequeul Infantry attacks, was evacuated)
by the French last night. To-day th
new line withstood the most furious a
saults which havo been mado hj- thtt
Crown Prince's army In tunny days.
As now established, the rYenoh line In
ih.s sector rutii from the Avocoutt rt-
duubt aloiig the wooded slopes to the
o iner -scon a m .oi.n.i uisiuayei mere w t f 304 f()llow.j thn yorKt
abundant supplied of every requisite. I , . , , .
The committee then refers to tho 1 rvrii " tlle northeast of Haucourl anil
vlslla of Ambassador Gerard and Llth- Joins the positions already held to tho
" V. " -a .V:,- tw.hu.. When they cot mto the open
The Interview was brief. Mr. P.oose. I , no,hnK definite to show that he H ! again Fry broke down. Tho horror
velt Mild he was going to take dinner J disposed to reconsider till- decision. of It was more than he could bear for
with Dr ltlgelow this evenlny and to- . n ;1 measure Germanv's reply to the , the moment.'
. . . .. . . I . . i ... I XT . I.. l-i., i .Til. Cnt. ..fie ..II. 1 1' telil.
nines With l.lternr) Men.
blocked thlncs Just long enough to keep
Mr. Johnston in court until 2 o rlocl: ,ter
P. M or the right hour i have a 'urn- .,,.
Hik-elow were Judge and Alls,
.German submarine and there have been
gow ar.d n.sliorne to Wittenberg, both
of whom In their reports made mention
of the unfavorable Impressions the visits
gave them.
Concluding, the report .iy
"The commlttie nccordlt.gl.v w:n
forced to the conclusion that the terri
ble sufferings and privations of the
inflicted prisoners during the period tin-
south of the crossing f tho Helhlncourt
Ksnes and Bethiricourt-ChattancourB
loans.
The evacuation of Hexhincourl, in Its
self only a small ruined village, has hail
the effect of flattening the point of th
salient, although the successful holdln
mons served on his driver as he motored
up town.
GERMAN BANKERS "SCARED."
Home llrnrs They Are Trnnsferrlnu
lleserves to Xfiilrnl Countries.
.-jifriiil Ce'.fi- lriMtrh tn Tnr. Six.
Komi:. April '.. German bankets, ac
cording to rt ports titelved In financial
circle line, arc trantifen ll.g their re
serves to neutral countries without heed
Irg the losses Incurred by the unfavorable
exchange nR long as they tiUceeed in get
coercive measure are feared.
Hill llej I tin- I. Inc.
'. i lia ClOesiil tills Ilne. Accoiiliug I
to ,,f,i nation leceivtd here to-night be,
m : Hi,, .hi. in ll.i.i'li't an ut Hosarlo,
T'n-.iiv'ii lo-d.ij. Juan Hindcras Is Gen.
ll'nll.a'io X.apata's iluht band niiui and
is sent flill.l CueriMVilC.t bj- ll!t chief
to ., Ineti tne escaiK- of the "lion of the
noith. '
It '. .is inn known until to-day thai a
ii'.nlhm- bad birii istabllslieil which
!'l Ann i n in tionps wi re nut to cr(.
1'i I .t--'iiti".- I'liiniiiand Is now a.'iO ,l,n-ttieir inonev-safely out of Germanj-,
tr, 'is troin the holder, and It bus but These steps are asctlbeil to reports that
i-till miiis to go before it riaches the i t,c Hm war loan was a failure and that
CIMIIIIll. .
J'.irral vt the piiliit fur which Villa
was siipi'ii-ed to In- heailli.B. After his
tt npf from hi" two battles at Nuini
Hiip.i and liiierreio he crossed the main
tnr.-e of tho Sierra Madrid ami steeiod
sii'jth lorly nubs west of Chihuahua
c'lj. lb- "h sivipo-.,.,! to have croraed
tl.e .Mexican .N'ortliw.ste.n Jtallroad III
tie v mnlty of San Andres.
Tin n he -vent ein.o lo Santa Vsabel,
t.'ii. at li's onle.-s, Pablo Lopez mui
rend nuntieii American citizens on the
tenth ,i of last .lanuarj-. The last all
Pi run Information concerning his move
1. 1 in-, was- win ii he passed south through
s.in m M tf, is tune he is S'tlil to have
".nl .ilih e'.:bt 11 If II w Itll 1 1 1 1 1 1.
I'.irr.ii hat li.cn for m.in.v years one
,i).i's pi lii.ii, ,il stamping grounds.
It i- a inwn i.r ll.nllll people. It Is In
tr hiii-t of the must liijccesslble por
t!o of ii.i siena Mad re range.
llln lloilued to Meet Aid.
I
iow thoiiulit that Villa was ton-
' i Dial tlie merlcaii Government
" -. i( tue Mexican Central Hull-
. I Ho- bad taken place the Amer
l an ;,.veinmi nt l oiild have thrown
'ops ...in tlie I 'a real district without
tou'ie. Thi .Mi xiciiii Central has a
l-a-'h I, ne from Jimenez to Parral.
J is is :; I miles fioin the border.
V..,i iioileeil I'atial, going to the west,
still mad,, his way to Hosarlo, where he
tn' 'ii" Juan Itiinileras. This Zapa
' i u.iiler made his way north from
C " a a tlnouah a network of Car
f - i ii.,ii,s to mi et VII lit lie cinie
tlti.1", ml. d.
I uilei.is . .me of the most noted of
' a .ii.i llt.li l is. He (list niet Villa
1 v' iv eiuhieen nionths ago,
1 Hiim ,i ninl Villa promised nllc-
tin convention government
i-.aii,!.. It H not generally
at ula nnd Kapatii ac friends,
iow i,Mnaril of Inlimate Mux-
Iraii ,(i fit in. ,m known to be true,
Mlllime Willi 11 till 1. 1,
' li lenders weie in Mexico
,V.e
VON PAPEN IN HOLLAND.
Itecnlled xttltchr ld to fir llolim
rropnnnila Work There.
Sptelol fablt litxiintth to Thk Si
Lnvnos- April f. The )iHu f.'Aronl-
cle' Amsterdam correspondent tele
graphs that dpt. Franz von rapen. mo
refilled German mnn.iry ncii" mj
ernhaswv at Washington, after a sojourn
In Herlin. Is now In Holland doing work
lmlUr to that which he did In America.
The conespondeiit adds, however, that
the Captain's present activities are car
ried on along moru discreet lines.
GERMAN LOSSES 2,730,917.
IIMl.t.'IT I'.stlinnli-d ne Killed I p to
I'.ntl of March.
..iu labtt Hetpatrh to Tut Siv
IxiNPON, April D.Iocal .newspapers
figure from tho German oltlclul lists
that the German losses up to the end
..r March amounted to 2,730,917, of
whom Sfil.137 were killed.
.-
PROFESSOR'S DEATH MYSTERY.
Coroner Onlrrn Intjnlry Into .folina
llopkln expert's Demise.
it.i.TiMiiim. Antll 9, Harry Clary
Jones, professor of phytfic.il chemistry
at Johns Hopkins Cnlversllj and one of
the greatest authorities on the subject
In ll.e l ulled States, oicil nuuucmy )
er.i.i- .it n s nom.
According to the Coroner, Dr. Moses
Savage, theie Is a suspicion that he may
t.nv.. died from other than natural
causes. Ills body Is now at Johns Hop
i,i, ,. Itnsnltal. a nost-iiiortem exalnlna
Hon having Iteeu ordered ny the Coio-
1 1 1 j
in
Tin
BOY WASN'T JIMMY GLASS.
Ill 'i -nlit'i' llilt. lien, ttambiras
go-between fur Villa and .a pain , Mot tier TrmrW From Jersey Clly
i.n one of the closest frlenilH nf f( Kt,toru- mi I'nUe Cine
... I.I,.', n.rll. I.. I.ell. VIII', I .. V.I SillTON. Kl. April 9, Ml'tf. CIlllllCS
., ".he gilt.gos." u tllass of Jersey Clly, S. J.. mother of
id Cimleras met In ItoMirio. 1 Jimmy H"8. '"H Kidnapped at
a d lo havo had a four hour Greeley, Pa., last Mhj-. met with another
m a fo.ida In (hat village. .lisapiMiltitmeiu lo-jiimu s.'. .r
. of nils conference is said to a boy living at tne nnme. ui 1,11111 aui.ei,
.ai Villa ami '.upata agreed , a farmlianil. eighteen miles from here,
i.n.l mi l t hut lie was nni ner son.
Tho mother reached the farmhouse
nrter a long ride over the mountains,
Ono look at tho boy, who was left with
the Millers by strangers last juna,
showed her inm ntr journey was iruu
lei.
I I IS
a i ns ln.f.OM iiieii under his com
ml has atiMilute inliliol of the
1 siii.ll.wisteiu Slates of Mexico.
ales urn Morclos, Hlnaloa, Oax-
o.itiiiiitd oh Htcond Vayv.
Trooliles Pile Up.
Wherefore lie i.iiillnues under his
quiet ufterniion" caption t
P. M. While returning up town In
i small limousine owned by one of the
other members of nur association our
driver was served with a summons to
appear In court on ,i charge of running
over the planking on Park avenue be-
tween Forty-tlrot and Fnrty-sivotuI
streets at a speed In excess of eight
tulles an hour.
":02 P. M.--We asked the otllcial
making the arret under what law or
ordinance our rate was Illegal. He re
plied that It was 'a police regulation.
"2:03 P. -M we suggested lo tl.e
traffic officer that If the real purpose was
to reilu
rilanklnK
economical and efficient way to do so
would be to station an unskilled laborer
there with a flag Instead or stationing
tw members of the police force dis
guised as civilians and armed with stop
watches.
:13 P. M. While procefdlng up
Fifth avenue our driver was reprimanded
by the tralllc officer fur not driving fast
chough when the utile er blew his whistle.
".1 P. M. lleturned to my omce ami
received a telephone message from one
of our customers to whom wo had
lo ied one of our demonstrating cats lo
the effect that he had been arrested for
driving a car with a manufacturer's
lle-oiKe nlllte. I
.1:3(1 P. M llecelveti a lelepiionc i P'" ieu.
message from the archil vt of our new j
,,.,., ,, ,u indications since that Herlin would deny ( hospital there were no mattresses t all.
T,n Knne l I: h o -m i nr ;i 1 res ismsllilllty In the Sussex case and '. In consequence there were many typhus
wire I J , ,.i M,s 1 tahert' . ck. lm Justification In the other cascf. .patients scattered over the compounds
u..,. 1 Vet otllclals Here nave oecn sou.ow nai.
Mess Ulaggcred by th- definite news that C.er
.erMe. i.iany contests alt the points raled by
Kobert
Grant. Mr. and .Mrs. William llocoe
Thaver and Dwell Wlter.
Grant, inajeranci vv isicr are oversee ,.,.,,, ln.Kht In
of Harvard and also authors, Mr. ' ' " "" ," ', whltA
Thayer has Just publl-heil volume " reserved in ofilclal an Whl e
which denounce- Germany in strong , Houe circles ..flic la I . is '
waiting for the President to say whetner
Many called at Dr. Higelow s residence the Government will uphold Its original
on Kenron street this evening -eeklng the p"itlon or retreat
Colonel, hut thev were Informed that be It Is admitted that Germain is making
could not receive them. An Invitation a particular effort to draw the ashing
was sent him bv the Cltv Club to lunch ton Government Into discussion of a
there to-morrow', but Mr. Koonevelt said eompromlni or into diplomatic argument
he had not received it. and If be had he I on questions of fact. s one official
would have lo decline, as he would not explained it. Herlin U making the re
attend "a public function of any kind." sumption of diplomatic notes almost a
He then repeated that he positively necessity unless tile President adheres
would not talk politics or see any poll-, to his decision not to dlscus further the
Helium wiille here. protection of American llvet.
To-morrow noon he w ,11 lunch with , The studied entiricoui tenor 01 ner-
Asked If fin's reply to Ambassador ueraru is also
Maior lr.v. '".iiits. SutL..fle and l ield
aftr heroic work, contracted tj-phu
ami d:el. The horrors of conditions are
described a follows:
VaDt. Lauder found that while In tho ,,,.. . ,r.., . ,.,,ti,,.. ,,',,i.,,, ..
bungalows there normally was one mat- ;,.,,.. umitted to i--ctit.v. Dr. Aschen-
ss to three men, In the improvise i ,,..,, ll(,w(.v,.ri m.llllh mo,lcal officer
arul whllo tlie rommltteo i.'.-iniziH that
malerlal couditlons at the camp are
now tatlsfartorj-, the Improvement Is the
dor review were directly chargeable to ! by the French of the Ilne on the Forges
deliberate cruelty and neglect of the crock to the west of Bethlncourt and thu
German olTlclals whoso elementary duty line Just south of tho villago leaves a
It was. In the words of tho Geneva Con- I still very pronounced salient projecting;
vent. on. to respect and take care nt ; Into the German lliifK, with the two very
these men, wounded and sick as they i Important bills, St. I, east of Haucoutt,
were, without distinction of nationality, j and l.o Mort Homme, southeast of Until
but who acleil as if neithe- that conven- I livourt, within II
tln nor even the ordinary Instincts of ' Hethltiootut lies In tne Forge V illcy
humanity had any place in their scheme at Its Junction with h vallev runnlnir
Ol IlllllKS.
"The uiiinaiidant dilliiu til- whole
tittle was Gen. von l'ae-el The i'om-
iiiltteo Iiellev.- Hint lie l.ns now liern
wiio were determined not to come Into
the hospital If they could help it. in
one compound alone dpt. louder dis
covered fifty hidden cases of typhus.
"Further, when a pitlent was brought
from the compound to the hospital, either
tho mattress on which he had lain was
ipio the Forges Valley from the south
and was at the in"rv- of the Gcrm-m
guns on the hills at thnv, sides, Tho
new; French lino skirls tho higher ground
to the south.
A'lneU i'ollons II t neiinlloo,
I'rom the Incomplete information now
available tt seems probable that the.
result of ii.iiMant pressure will. Ii might I ' , ""1n aeg on tne western
never to have been nectary, and no i1'1 of. t,", ,r to-day. made s.mul-contlden.-
cm be felt as long as Dr. I t',',,,",'V extremely heavy
Acienba.h l there. assaults on the eastern bank. Urns pr.ic.
"The prise rs wl'l have the medical '' ;"ver ng tho wholo erdun front.
I care to which they ie entitled. It is a I " ny i.ie ,,er , ,H as ,oo,t
hi ' i L.,i,.,,u , .,,, 1.,.. ,i.tt,M i e inr .earneii in i lie W'l tllil .'.1 w a 1 r.'o 11
brought with him or It was left Ihlna, ,,., ,,,. i m..i.i mull Hethlncoun In the hope of rlti.li.ivr the
in the bungalow. If It as nrougnt wm ,,ew IVim-h lln- In thi, s-t. t v
film ins rormer coinpauiu...- r.e ""' ,. . ,, ..,-,,.... ...... ,,..! slintig enough to resist them
;Vl,V,0,Utr,ytl!!lsk' sUu'TiuliXc. V coin-l'l-' -v" -v..,,,..,,.,,, f He,hlt url :,a.,
Mt, ?L left Z ul an S-l11' '"' "egl.vt as that for which Dr. , W" r","-'"I"l b' '" r c.xis.rtH f,.
panlons i were left . sUe. upon an " Aschenbach must one .lay answer" ' military neecsiitj.
evitab'.o that they should catch the ills
the Mieed of velKioi on the his sons. Archie and (Juentln. Asked If fin's reply to Ambassador Gerard Is alse
I would seen, tl at the nore ! he would attend the drill of tne Harvard '. regarded here as a bid for further pro
.... l.ueie,, v in iln In I tegtmetit the Colonel said he had not longed diplomatic exchanges. Germany'!
heard about It. Among others he will
see In Cambridge will be Thomas Har
bour, a scientist connected with tho
Museum of Comparative! Zoologj-. The
Harvard calnlogue lists him as nw.
elate curator of reptiles nnd amphibians.
The Oyster Hay correspondents were
represented by four or five members on
the Colonel's train. They slid he
lunched with them In the diner hut de
voted bis time to reading In his (date
room during the trip from New York.
Three or four travellers who recognized
loused diplomatic exchanges. Germany's
ledce not to sink without warning pas.
senger ships Is emphasized from Herlin
llead In fin I'urtbrr.
Mr. Gerard ninlerstaniLs that GeiniHiiy
1 Is not only ready to adhere to theso
pledges but Is perhaps disposed to go
even further under .ertaln circum
stances. This l construed to mean that
Germany's submarine campaign cap lie
materially curtailed provided ;reat
ltrliiiln ceases Its policy of "trying to
Mr Hoosevclt In the diner stopped to s,a"e """'"'Y " ,
Miake hatnlH with him. Hut o.herwise , ''r,!,,"''!!t. "Jj! "i
there was nothing of moment, they re-
erstom to now
jhnve a standing offer from Herlin that
service building advising me that the
Fire Department hail refused to approve
thj plans because of tlie woonen poors.
Only One SUory High.
Here Mr, .1. illusion explained at IriiKth
that his architect had called the fire
folks' attention to the fact that the
building was only one story high, of fire,
proof construction throughout, that there
was no basement under it, that there was
an eight Inch concrete tloor, but that.
merely us a sanitary measure, a layer
of wood had been placed over the con
crete because It would be dangerous to
the workers to lalsir all day standing
directly on the concrete floor.
"4 P. M" resumed Mr, Johnston
"Itecelved a summons from tho Depart
ment of Labor to appear In court In
answer to tho charge of violating ono
of the seeilons of the labor law. Have
not had time to investigate the com
plaint, but I am Informed Hint Un
charge Is that we have failed to pin
vide separate toilet fiirllltlrs for female
employees In the building. In which there
never have been female employeis."
It was growing Inte t'cn and seeu.e.l
to be time for Iho various officials to
null down the shades and call It an
afternoon. Hut no : at 5 o'clock the. tel
ephono rang again. This time Mr.
Johnston iccelveil. he said, a telephone
message from the boss of the associa
tion's present service building to the
effect that a Fire Department Inspector
had Jil't dtoppe.l In with the news that
a permit would have to be refused for
the reason that the repulr shop was
more than 10,(100 square feet In area.
Mnrderrr Drop Dead In Nluu' MIiik,
(issiNiNii. N. V Apt II flv-Glovaunl
Pasluo, ftS, u murderer, dropped dead ot
one of thn Hers of the Sing Sing prison
cell block to-day after returning from
exercise In the prison yard. Death wan
due to heart disease, Pi.sino had been
In prison for seven years. Ho got a
life sentenco for a murder committed In
New York.
Wllliam Hand, Jr. former Assistant
District Attorney, n member ef tho
Harvard class of ISSX, said last night
that although there had been a gather
ing of ss men at which Mr. H.irnes wns
present Itarnes did not make a speech
sajlng he would throw his support to
Knosevell,
The gathering was In no sense u class
dinner, Mr. Hand said, It was merely
an Informal meeting of some '88 men
nt the Harvaul club such as often
takes place. Mr. Harnns was one of the
diners and lie also gave an Informal
talk, but said nothing which could Is?
construed to Indicate that he favored
Hoosevelt's candidacy.
siibmatine .activities will cease If he will
(persuade tirc.it Hrltalti and her allies to
lessen the rigors or tne uiucKaue.
It was learned here to-nleht that the
American liner St Paul, which Is bring
ing furttier evidence on the Sussex case
to the State Department, will not reach
New York until Thursday. The ship wna
exnected to dock to-day, but her de
parture from Liverpool was delajed bv
reports of German submarines in the
vicinity of her course,
As President Wilson Is deslious of
netting all the evidence cm the Sussex
case before he makes his position public
It Is probable that no action will he
since It was evident that the group of
"" representing the village was ...
e. , , , . r U,UlUAft urrus3 XVLrnlSnL. , situated as to make It practlc-aliy un
Agaln. In the absence of a stretcher j tf,1ilM() u1(U,r th(, ,..,..,, r. .
all typhus cases had lo ne carriea now ii......-.i.. ... . O. ra an heavy artillery. The German
. . , . e-oiiimtinders, anticipating the wlth-
lreal.oent ,.,...r.l.-cl llrltlsh. draw.il. appear to have limed their
tpraal Caljtt fieipufrA to Tim Si . attack, which might iilnmt be called
XMsTwiPAM. v. a London, April r, ' n gene-r.tl assault on the Verdun front,
1 orii'ii, r(x savs that ll.ir Colin, n iiieiii. I to coincide with the evacuation. Hut
,. ,. . .. br of the new Socialist Labor Cnion, evacuation had been safely rn.i.-
The l omi nan (denounced In the Helcllstag j.oterdity tho! p'eted In the nislit and the troops weie
"During the first month the food ration , manner of Internment of H-itlsli civilians . waiting in the new- trenches at the, rear
for each patient was half a petit pain , in G.rniany, which has been s.il.l to be; whin the attack finally was made.
and half a cup of milk each, dally. necessary nw "a ieprls.il for the bar-. 'rll(' attack was centred against two
The only oup to be got was irom I partus treatment or i.etmai s in Hicil i '"lul "i'"-." nvei
the camp kitchen, but that canio up 1 Hrltaln." ' uo extending from the Hols .I'Avocout
to the hospital on the tallies on wnicu
the men ale their food, and there was
no possibility of wasning tne tames oe.
cause there was practically no soap
In camp
to the Forges Creek and the other from
Lo Mott Homme to Cum.eie.-
Xev I. ll.e Holds I'lrili.
Details of the lighting have not
111 a wooden tub without cover ami) "llnve, alleged persecutions or i.er
on Its arrival nt the hospital was full ( mans In Great Hrltaln. however," lor
of clus; and dirt. II was a hopclcsw p-ocr.v iiiotes Heir Colin as s.ijiim,
diet for patients in fever. It was nut 1 "were exaggerated and even partly In-
even possible to give p.iuenii warm emeu u.r cue ...ii..'.' m cai-hou; enmity ; Details or the lighting have not vet
water with the milk. against Gie.it Hrltaln" I been received, but the official announce.
"The camp conditions wire too much, Heir Colin oiiileimied the refusal to m,.nt indicates that it was of .. most
for the medical otllcets. Two of them, allow the wives and ctill.lien of the 111 II- I mlent character. At one point, on the
Major Fry and dpt. Sutcllffe, sickened i Ish men lo visit tin in and the exclusion ; Huithern edge of the Hots r.v.s-.iint,
about a month after their arrival. . of children of Hritlsh hoi u parents from H German assaulting column s.Mliie.1 a
- wus attacked later by the disease tun scnnius, micii inings. no sal. i, tempor.irv footing in a French positi on.
the disease, after having, for three days
with a high temperature due to typhus,
stuck to his work, there being no one
then lo take his place, He alone of the
officers attacked finally iccovered. When
he was convalescent he btavcly resumed
taken here before Friday, when, It Is ex- his duty.
and also died. There is no doubt In the , "ate monuments to Get maiij s b.u l.,u ..us l)Ut w-.u ' Immediately driven oil bv a
minds of the committee that the condl- ! method of waging war '1 'runnier attack.
tlons to which the camp authorities have el!8 i1K,, position appeals lo he tl.
reduced the camp and the prisoners they .o nnn GEM THEFT CHARfiF.n ' ".ly point on thn whole Verdun front
had abandoned were directly responsible , iMvWU U- lMr I LlUiU. , ( ' )u( (UPnho l!t.niull attack, re
fer the death of these 'l.ilenlxlM, ' i'ttth .Weiiue Jeweller Coses r-! pcat-d Hum after time and lasting prat-
v..i.i. i.i.u ....... y ........... , ..... ... i in ally an nay. g ui.cci even a iem-
re. i in n ...i.mono riier. por.iry advantage.
Nathan Gieenheig, n manufacturing ' Dense formations vvhicti had been
Jeweller of t!30 Fifth avenue, as a citizen , abandoned by the Germans in their re
last night arrested a former etnplojee, . cent attacks In favor of a mom open
F.dwnrd Waliler. and acinnipaulcd by order and the employment of llvo sep.
ROOSEVELT OFF AUAIS'.
Trip l F.iikIiiiuI Starts More
Poll Hen I Talk.
Col. Iloo.-evelt left New Voik at noon
jeslerday for Ills brief Invasion of New
Kiiglatid, Ills last winds were that his
trip was not of a political i.attnc, hut
one lo be devoted to Harvard meetings
nnd hobnobbing with nuclnl and lltcrao
friends. He said he would do his best
to keep all pollllr.il calleis from get
ting within striking distance,
The prophets see In this Joiiinej, how
ever, a significance that glows mightily
In view of the situation In Massachu
setts, whero there is n facllonal fight
over the primary election of delegates
to tho Kcpubllcau convention,
Memlicrs. of the lllrd-Cushlug.(Hri.
ner-Washburn group who want to be
elected delegates at large pledged to )
Kooseveit nave ninu.i) rniicii on ll.e
Colonel at Oyaler Hay. lie told them
that he didn't want his name used in a
factional fight.
Senator Lodge of the opposition ticket
Continued on Third Pagt,
plained, the Cabinet will probably
render Us decision on the evidence.
SPAIK T0TAKE ACTION.
Will Cooperate With Mvellrerlnnd
in I' llont Problem.
".icrmf f'nfi'e iojotIci to THK Si v
P.vms, April 9 Tlie I'etit Pniiatc.i
understands that Spain has promised
Switzerland to take common action with
the hitler regal. ling Gerui.inj's treat
ment of neutrals.
The Heinl-olllchil fhi.Wo l, Hire rc 1 of
Madrid defines the Government' atti
tude on the leeent torpedoing of ves
sels i-arijllig Spanish subjects as fol
lows : '
"The Spanish Hag ought to offer suf
ficient giiaranlee of the life and Inter
ests of Spanish subjects; and the Gov
ernment will see that such Is tho case,
not because Spain loynlly olmorves her
neutrality but because Internutlnnnl laws
give us that light absolutely."
MrKc'Urrn Mil Families of simarx
Victim.
v)ifei.il Cil'lf iHtpiitrh lo Tnr Si v
P.MiiH, Apt II ft. The crew of the
steamship Marie Tlierrse, which saved
the vhtlu- of the Channel packet Sus
sex, ha subscribed 472 francs ($94.40)
for the families of the .poorest of the
victim.
tin March 7 Major Priestley and dpt.
Vldal, who were otelered elsewhere, weio
directed to return to the main ramp.
"Two ItuHsl.tn medical generals were
In command in the hospital. There then
were about l.ouu' cases of tjphus in
camp and fresh cases were coming In
at the rate of about fifty dall.v. There
were about ISO llrltlsh cases. The
llrltlsh sick were lying scattered among
the French and Ktisslnns. They were
lying In their clothes em the tloor or on
M raw mattresses.
Major Priestley saw delirious nun
waving their arils alive with vermin.
In the half light ho attempted to brush
what he took to be an accumulation of
eiust from the folds of patients' ctotl.es
nnd discovered It to le a moving mass
of lice.
in one room the patients lay so close i
to one another on the tloor that he had
to stand straddle legged across them to
examine them,"
('apt. Vlclal'te ilescrljitlon was even
more appalling. The difficulty In the'
way of obtaining isufflcieut drugs and
dressings waH for u long time extreme.
Day after day n list of medical teqiilsltes
would be sent out and only a third of
the thltsiH truncated would be supplied.
In the earlier Mages, of the epidemic
there was practically no hospital cloth
ing available for tho llrltlsh prisoners.
An regards the washing of the patients
In the hospital, thin wna entirely out of
the question until a supply of soap wns
obtained by C'apt. Vldal's efforts from
Policeman Van Hageu took him to the
We.it Forty-seventh street stall in, where
hn i barged W.ilder with the larceny of
a diamond brooch nnd chant valued at
$111,000
..rate waves or mep. worn usd again
to-day In the assault ... the front be
tween la! Mort Homme and Cinnleres.
The Germans, debouching fiom the -iK.iltlon.s
In the Cumlercs wn.sl, ad-
The ueius ivete left with Gieeuheri: bv valued In masses under tho conccn-
15, M. liaitlr Co. to be repaired, W.iMer. I t rated fiio of the French 7.".s ami m.
vvho said ho vias an expert diamond ' tra.lleuxes. The French Urn broke up
setter living at '.'If. West Forty-second ' the formations and the G. nnatis llmilK
street, was locked up despite his denials . w .llulivw, leaving hundreds of dead on
of the chatge. Ho acknowledged that
Greenbcrg had left thn Jewelry at his
house last week, as Oreenberg'.s plate
had been damaged by fire, and he was
the field. I'.cpealed assaults weie mnfie
cm I.r .Moil Homme and heir again the
Geimans lost heavily.
nn the east, rn Uiuk of toe .rr in
unable to letialr the articles himself in . titlark did Pot get bejond thn stage of
the time tciiulrcd. jiut.lleij pirpniallott. the iie-ni.ul troop
Waliler. however, .isseited thai the not bring able to leave th.lr positions
Jeweller returned shortlj aftciwai.l and The Cote tin Pohre and iho Douau
took the brtsich and chain nwiij, ex- molit-Vaiix sector wen ihe poitioti of
plaining that he wished to show iiietn ire Fieioli lioe ..sali.-t vli;,ii tho Gc
to a natron Grcenherc Insisted that' nun artillct.v drevted ,;s most vu.lii,;
he did not take tho adoi nuicnts away.
SAY YUAN WILL RESIGN.
FnMuIr of t lilnese I'realdrni cr
rolnte Iteporl.
(i .ut I'ahlf Iietpalth In Tin. sis
l.o.xpos, April 10 -The Tientsin c.rrie.
sponilent of the tufi Mull, teh graph
ing yesteulay. says.
"Orileis have suddenly been issued
stopping Hie despatch of reenfon enniils
for tho south. Theni arc iiimors in
Pekin that mutinies may be rxpecied.
"Tho enemies of President Yuan
Shlh-k'al ttuto that h Is, pvep.irlng to
resign."
file mi I ie eiisteiu nam,, tpe liencii
second hues being shiilrd with p n llciilar
tho.omiiilw ss 1'reiu Ii giun. irpllnl ut
once mid vvnu a tire sUpoi.innly thai reu
d'icil an mfiii'lij nltack linpiac ticablc
iH'rioa.i Trench tormiMl,
II av.v lvf
is lire on In e
rg nine, ..i
coin I. w h le
. H .'II Illle 'C rone cut i a ,ed
of . oiiinmiilcitlot. ie thu
'i. i.oithwist of liilmi.
Germ in reenfoicemcnla
wue l.e.i.g '. ought up.
T'ic iill. 'I oiiiiiiimniue ssueil he the
I'.r.'- i lln inllcr to-night followb.
In un Sigoune our artillery
ixr.i.icil a i ouccntiatevl fire on enemy
hues of runiinimle.ili.iti Our heavy
J batteries cannonaded ilurlns opera
