' t; . .-wwM jrqp
POSTSCRIPT
EDITION
ituetitng
POSTSCRIPT
EDITION
a 1
VOL. II. NO. 170
PHILADELPHIA, MONDAY, APRIL 10, 1016.
Coriaiont. 1910, t ins rcsuo liwra Comtami.
PJRICE ONE CENT
nv-
I
FRENCH HALT
FOE'S ATTACKS
ON TWO HILLS
Admit Loss of 500 Yards of
an Advanced Trench
. Near Le Mort Homme
QUIT BETHINCOURT LINE
Terrific Slaughter Marks Bat
tle Northwest of
"Verdun
PAUtS, April 10.
Pierce German nttneks ngalnst the
French positions on Lo Mort Hoinmo (Dead
Mnn's II1II) were renewed during the night
and the Teutons occupied G00 yards of nn
ndvnnccd trench, It was announced by tha
War Ofllco In nn official communique to
day. Mountains of corpses on the front north
west of Verdun and west ot tho Meuso
River testify to tho frlghtfulncss of tho
German losses.
Tho ferocity of the assaults around Hill
304 nnd Dead Man's Hill is only equaled
ly the gallantry of tho French defenders.
Although tho French havo evacuated
Bethlncourt, northwest of Verdun, a modi
fied salient still extends Into tho German
line In that region and tho Teutons aro
pounding- it on two sides with infantry
nnd artillery In nn effort to compel the
French to give up their positions on
Hill 304.
Tho voluntnry retirement of the French
.from Bethlncourt nnd tho territory south
west of Bethlncourt opened up the" way
for a direct nttnek against Hill 301 anil
tho Germans Immediately took ndvantago
of It, hurling great masses of men ngalnst
tha hill.
Tho battle raged along nn clght-mllo
front. According to French military
critics, It was n decisive defeat for tho
CroWn Prince.
By tho retirement from the Bethlncourt
sector tho Germans wero ablo tii advance
a mile, but at tho snmo time General I'c
taln saved his forces from what would
havo probably proved severe losses by this
stratoglo move. '
Two German nrmy corps (80,000 men)
fought ilcsperatoly all day nnd night In
a determined effort to hurl tho French
from Hill 304 and tho southern slopes of
Lo Mort Hommo (Dead Man's' Hill) back
to tho Charny Ridge, 'which forms n
strong lino of defense for Verdun upon tho
western sldo of tho Mouse, but tho defense,
never wavered.
The first attack was delivered between
Avocourt and, tho crossroad south of Beth
lncourt, Where a division nnd ahnlf sought
to capturo Hill 304 by a combined direct
and enveloping movement.
Bach advancing column consisted of a
company. They inarched forward beneath
n withering firo until checked within 100
yards of tho French tranches, where -machine
guns mowed them down in masses.
Three times tho nttnek was renewed be
fore tho Oermans admitted defeat.
Simultaneously two divisions of fresh
troops attempted to storm Dead Man's
Hill and tho French positions In tho re
gion of Cumlcres, hut the only result was
to leave heaps of corpses, on tho battle
field, Several hundred Germans succeeded In
jlenotratlng the ravines between Cumlcres
and the Mouse River, but they wero cut oft
and all perished.
Meanwhile one brigade attacked the
trenches between Avocourt nnd the ro-
Contlnucd on I'nge Sir, Column Thrtf,
THIEF'S PLEA MOVE JUDGE
Burglar's Story Ho Stole for Starving
Family Found True
Tho story of a burglar so touched tho
sympathy of Magistrate Beaton today
that he deferred disposition of tho case
until Saturday. The defendant Is Alfred
Jensen, of lyi South 2d street. He ad
mltted stealing silver from ten homo of
.Elizabeth Peters, 114 Went riilll-EIiena
street, Germautown. protesting that lie
did nit under the necessity of, saving his
wife and two children from starving nnd
being thrown out of their home because
there was no way to pay tho rent.
Jensen confessed to Detectives Doyle
and Bent They had Frederick J. Pooley,
general agent of the Pennsylvania Prison
Society, Investigate the man's story, and
Mr. Pooley found It true.
Thero is no record to show that Jensen
ever broke the law before, and he said
this was his first offenso.
THE WEATHER
The Evening; LiirxiKn prints today, as
part of its weather news, the forecast for
th whole of next week based on new
discoveries In solar physics made by
Willis I. Mooro, professor iif, meteorolog
ist the George Washington University, and
former chief of the United States Weather
Bureau, who, working In conjunction with
W. F. Carothers. director of tho Carothera
Observatory at Houston, Tex., Issues regu
larly a bulletin giving the results of their
observations with regard to weather con
ditions. Professor Mooro and his asso
ciate have accomplished some notable re
sults, and have been able to forecast the
weather for two weeks in advunce with
remarkable accuracy in most Instances,
and the Evening Ledo.br, as a matter of
scientific Interest, nnd without assuming
responsibility for the accuracy of these
forecasts, prints them for public informa
tion. FORECAST FOR EASTERN
r STATES
Based on a new discovery in Solar Physics fry
WILLIS . UOORB and
W, . CAROTUUBS
Sunday, April IS, and Honda, April
Jtl The week toflj open with rain and
moderately warm temperatures, but soon
Blearing.
Tuesday, April IS, and Wednesday,
April IB Light frost over the State will
follow for one or two mornings.
Thursday, April to Unsettled weather
with thunder showers Thursday. ,
Friday, April tt, and Saturday, April
tit-Olear weather and light freezing fern,
peratures, General frosts as the week
closes.
GOVERNMENT FORECAST
For Philadelphia and vicinity
FatV tonight and Tuesday; slowly
rising temperature; moderate west
ivinda.
For detail? see page 17,
ll'.V ' I
I.QST AND FOUND
DEED -Lot. ded In the nune ot EMmand
8haw. for lot No. 7, N. W. Pt.. in Section
203. Mount MorUta Cmtery. Application
hi been mad for a duiUcu dcea.
Return t H. guv.
011 lW9 .
(black boodlal. femala. last IS reward far
- . "i':t ,, i- '...-... '-: -.." : '
Itlttr Leifaad feasd Ail on fn 1$ ''
SPRING SINGS SNAPPY SONG
Sun Shines, Robins Chirp nnd Mer
cury Goes Up
Spring entered Into her own again to
day. The sun, which struggled all day yes
terday with the clouds that formed tho
rcargunrd of tho late snowstorm, came out
early. Up mounted tho mercury, nnd tho
songs ot the robins nnd the sap of tho
trees, all of which for two days had been
repressed by tho sudden return ot win
ter in the heaviest late snowstorm on rec
ord. The temperature went up well above
40 degrees, nnd better things nre In storo
for tho city, according to tho weather
forecast, ' Fair and warmer, says tho
Government Weather Bureau. Ilnln, saya
Baer's Weather Almanac.
RUSSIANS WIN
FIRST FIGHTS IN
TREBIZOND FRAY
Battle for Possession of
Turks' Black Sea Port
Under Way
MOSLEMS REINFORCED
90,000 Troops in Defense.
Grand Duke Personally
Leads Attack
PirrnOGttAT). April 10. Tho battle for
possession of Trcbizond, the great Turk
ish fort nn tho Black Sea, has begun nnd
tho opening fights hnve terminated suc
cessfully for tho Ruislnns.
The attempts of tho Turks to drlvo the
Itus-dans from their position on tho right
bank of the Kara Dere, between ifi nnd
20 miles from Trcbizond, resulted In fail
ure, tho TurkH suffering heavy losses.
Reinforcements havo been received by
tho Trcbizond garrison nnd It Is evident
that a desperate defence of tho city Is
Planned. They havo nbout 50,000 troops
nnd tho defensive operations wilt ho di
rected by German nrmy oillcers.
Great quantities of nmunltlon were
sent from- Germany for tho defense ot
Trcbizond, ns well as many aeroplanes,
guns nnd armored motorcars.
Grand Duke Nicholas Is dlrcctlnr In
person tho drlvo ngalnst tho Turkish
stronghold.
Turkish offlclnl statements, reporting
tho- sinking of two Itusslan transports In
tho Black Sea, nro fabrications, tho Min
istry of Marino announced today.
German submarines, Hying tho Turkish
flag, havo Inflicted only negligible losses
on ships engnged In transport or supply
service, it was stated. Tho Itusslan de
stroyer Strogl- ramm'cd nn enemy sub
marine near tho spot where the hospital
ship Portugal was, sunk by a torpedo.
ROME. April 10.
According to Information received at
tho" Russian Emhassv. tho Turks have suc
ceeded .In getting Jmportnpt rcinforco- j
metllH IU tlUAIUUIIU UllU OIYMS. AI1UJT II 1 U
said to number 80 or 90 battalions with ar
tillery. Tho feeding of tho Turkish army con
tinues a problem. Constant attempts are
mailo to send them food and mntorlal by
sea, but few ships arrive, most of them
being, sunk by Russian submarines and de
stroyers. Slnco the beginning of March tho Rus
sians hnve destroyed a hundred Turkish
vessels.
CONSTANTINOPLE, April 10.
Ono nf the three Allied monitors that
wero shelling tho coast of Asia Minor,
southwest of Urla (hear Smyrna), was
disabled by Turkish guns nnd had to bo
towed away. It was announced today by
tho Turkish War Office. .
JITNEY WAR IN McrTEESPORT
Drivers Defy Mayor's Order and Are
Locked Up
McKKESPORT. Pa., April 10. There Is
war hero today between Mayor Lysle nnd
the Jitney owneis. Saturday tho Mayor
Issued an order thnt no ono should pnrk
cars nt Walnut and 5th avenues, a sta
Hon they have used for a year. Today JO
Jitney owners lined their cars up nt 0
o'clock nnd when ordered to move by, tho
police 'all refused and wero taken to tho
police stntlon.
All refused to furnish bond for a hear
ing later In the day or to nllow their
friends to do so. The 19 owners were
locked up. An attorney has been engaged
by the Jitney owners and the whole matter
Is to bo taken a court.
L'AUSTRIA VU0LE LA
GRANDE 0FFENSIVA?
Si Dice Che l'Arciduca Eugenio
Attacchera' le Linee Italiane
con.Grandi Forze
v
Un telegramma da Itoma dice che In
formazlonl giunte alia autorita" mllltarl
Italians e dlspacc! glunti cola affermano
che gll austrlacl stanno preparando una
offenslva In grande stlU contro 1'Italla.
31 dice che 1'offenclva sarebbe stata declsi
In segulta ad upa conferenza, tra I'arcidu.
ca Eugenia e gll attrl comandantl
dell'eserclto austriaco. Come e' noto,
1'arciduca Eugenio e" comandanta In capo
delle forze operant! contro ,.1'Italla.
Fortl unita' dl trpppe sono state
rltlrate dal confine' delta Rumania e
grand I quantlta' di munlzlonl vengono
Inula, n Aa MM nl,nn rifill'lmnjirn VArsn In.
'fronte di battaglla itallana. Qui a Itoma
si dice che II comandante delle forze
italiane ha preparato tutto per far fronte
all'offenslva austrlaca, nel caso che queata
dovesse evluparsl, e per costrlngere gll
austrlacl a rltornare sulla dlfenslva.
II comunlcato uftloiale pubbltcato lerl
sera dal Mints tero delta. Guerra dice che
gll austrlacl avevano attaccato le position 1
Italiane sul tratto dl. fronte tra il Mrzll
ed II Vodll, ma sono statl resplntl ed
hanno lasctato 130 prlgtonieri nelle man!
degll ltaltanl.
(Leggere In 6a paglna, alt re e piu' dst
tagllats notlzle sulla guerra. In Itallano.)
Deschanel Blames Germany
PARIS. April 10. Paul Deschanel. pre
siding at a demonstration at the Sorbonne
In behalf of Armenia, said Europe, at the
Congress of Berlin, guaranteed tha, secur
ity of Armenia. Germany was a itgaatory
to this asreement and violated it la allow
lo tha Sultan (9 torture Armenians.
GOV. BRUMBAUGH
1 f T X f SrVftL
Vfc,'
.
Refusing to say whether he found the letter written to him by
David 15. Oliver, the Governor left tho city from the West Phila
delphia Station today, accompanied by his secretary, William II. Ball.
U-BOAT TERROR
INCREASES; MORE
SHIPS TORPEDOED
Six British Vessels Jhink in
24 Hours Total Nearly
20,000 Tons
SEVERAL CREWSMEN LOST
One Merchantman, Unarmed,
Reported Struck Without
Any Warning
Tho Gorman submarine campaign, re
newed March 1, is gaining In terror to
shipping. Six more British ships havo
been sunk. They aggregate nearly 20,
000 tons. Ono was struck without warn
ing. Several lives havo been lost.
A Danish ship was attacked, nccordlng
to dispatches to Lloyd's London olllce.
Ambassador Bernstorff lias asked Sec
retary Lansing for nn Intcrvlow this nfter
noon. Tho Secretary refused to disclose
any details of tho conference, but nfllcinls
hcliovo It mny result In new overtures con
cerning tho Stisex caso. Tho German an
swer to tho United States noto of protest
is expected In Washington todny. Addi
tional aflidavlts from tho American Em
bassies nt Loudon nnd Paris will be de
layed until tho St. Pnul puts Into New
York Thursday.
LONDON. April 10.
The last 24 hours has seen an Incrense
In the already terrifying campaign of
German submarines. Up to noon reports
had been received of the torpedoing of
four British steamships whose size to
talled 13,80tT tons. '
The victims were:
Senfra, 3678 tons.
Sllksworth Hall, 4777 tons.
Glenalmond. 2888 tons.
Yonne, 2S62 tons.
Avon, 670 tons.
Adamton, 2304 tons.
Tho Seafra, Sllksworth Hall and Glen-
Contlnurd on Tate Four, Column One
SEEK MEN WHO TRIED
TO WRECK WAR TRAIN I
B. and 0. Employes Also Under
Surveillance for Attempt
Against 'Treasure Express
WILMINGTON. Del.. April 10. Two
employes of the Ilaltlmore and Ohio Rail
road are under Mirvelllance today, follow
ing attempts made on Sunday to wreck a
"treasure 'train" and a train carrying to
Philadelphia munitions of war manufac
tured for the Allies.
While running E0 miles an hour, train
No. 13, known as the Wells-Fargo express
and carrying- many thousands of dollars
In specie, struck an open switch In the
suburbs of Wilmington. The train was
not ditched. An Investigation showed
that the switch lock had been broken by
a pick, such as used by employes of the
railroad company.
Shortly afterward the munitions train
struck another open switch. The lock on
this had also been broken by irptck.
Belgian Tobacco Fund $12,788.14
Total contributions, to the Soldiers' To
bacco Fund have reached $12,788.14, .ac
cording; to an announcement made at the
headquarters of the fund in the Flatlron
Bulletin?, New York, today. The aim of
the fund Is to send weekly to every Bel
gian soldier at the front or In hospitals
a package containing 50 cigarettes, a
Irage packet of tobacco and a box of
matches. Thera are 200,000 soldiers who
will receive these -gifts from tha Ameri
cans. Ex-Gov. Stuart Ilome From Porto Rico
Ex-Governor Edwtn S. Stuart, of Penn
sylvania, was unong tha passengers
aboard the steamship Brazos from Porto
Rico, which docked today In New York.
Jir. Stuart left two weeks ago for San
Juan on a pleasure trip. He is expected
X his home la Overbrook lt today.
OFF TO HARRISBURG
$!&
.. .v."
...."&. ..i." .itk..' ...i ; s"j?9oa Airi.
CHASE FOR VILLA
PUSHES TO SOUTH,
DESPITE RUMORS
El Paso Hears Deadline for
U. S. Has Been
Reached
FUNSTON DISREGARDS IT
V!
Pershing Assured of Aid From
Carranzistas Washing
ton Hopeful
"We arc still point? south," General
Funston Btntctl today regarding.. the
chase for Pancho Villa. The com
mander added 'that there was not a
chance for the immediate withdrawal
of the American troops.
El Paso reports, however, said that
Villa had passed southvard beyond
tho Chihuahua-DuranRo State line,
and that according to nn agreement
between President Wilson and First
Chief Carranza United States troops
would not be allowed further to ex
tend tho pursuit. Of this agreement,
if such exists, General Funston ap
parently knows nothing.
Dispatches from El Paso say that
Villa now is near El Oro, 30 miles
south of the Durango border, while
tho reports from San Antonio, Fun
ston's headquarters, indicate that he
is somewhero near Parral, still in
Chihuahua.
Official Washington was reassured
by General Funston of co-operation
from-thc Carranza troops, and was
still optimistic that tho man-hunt
would succeed. General Funston's
Contlnnfd on ! Pour. Column Two
FAMILY OF 11 IN PERIL
AS FIRE-ESCAPE FALLS
Iron Structure Breaks at Bain
bridge Street Blaze Police
man Also in Danger
Eleven persons narrowly escaped Injury
early today when a fire-escape on which
they were descending collapsed. Klro
started In a pile of refuse in the rear of a
stable owned by Morris Herman, 431
Batnbrldge street. Berman, his wife and
nine children who wero sleeping on tho
third floor of his home adjoining the stable,
were awakened by the glare of light re
flecting on the windows.
Rousing his family, Berman crawled
out on the fire escape, accompanied by
his children and wife, who carried a baby
In her arms. The Iron structure sagged
and then fell. Berman rushed back, push
ing his family ahead ot him. They
descended by the front stairway.
When the fire escape fell it narrowly
missed Policeman Caldwell, of the 2d
and Christian streets station, who ar
rived In time to rescue four horses. The
damage caused by tha fire was slight.
CHICAGO SPORTSMEN START
IN SEARCH OF STEFANSSEN
To Visit Frozen North in Specially
Built Schooner
CHICAGO, April 10 John Borden,
Chicago's millionaire sportsman and ex
plorer, wilt leave here tonight on tha first
leg of a Journey that will carry him far
Into the frozen north. In search of explorer
with him.
The party will go to Los Angetes. and
from there to Seattle, where a specially
built schooner U waiting.
BRUMBAUGH
LEAVES CITY;
MUM ON NOTE
Refuses to Say Whether or
Not He Found Oliver
Letter
DOESN'T WANT STRIPE
Governor Goes to Harrisburg.
Light on Check May Come
Later in Day
Governor Ilrumhatigh left tho city for
HnrrlshurK this morning, after declining
to admit whether or not ho hns found
the letter written to him by David B.
Oliver, Pittsburgh multl-mllllonalro nnd
brother of Senator Oliver, nt tho time Mr.
Oliver sent him the check for $1000, nnd
Which would prove whether the check was
a personal contribution, ns the Governor
avers, or a political contribution ns al
leged by Mr. Oliver.
"I havo nothing to say: I don't want
to stir up a controcrsy." said tho Gov
ernor, In answer to direct ipiestlotis ns to
whether ho had found the letter. Ho
spoke these wotds at his Germnntowu
home, 251 West Wnlnut lane, before en
tering Ills nutomoblle to go to tho rail
road station.
The letter, nrcordlng to the Governor
last night, was on file in Jils Ocrmantown
home. Tho Governor yesterday admitted
that ho would fccnich for It whllo here.
MAY NOT BH MADi: PUBLIC.
William It. Ball, private secretary to
Governor Brumbaugh, declared this morn
ing that If tho letter Is found It will not
bo made publto nt this time, thcichy con
tradicting n stntement which he mado yes
terday. Mr. Ball said yesterday that hr
wns "willing to bet thnt the letter would
bo made public ns soon ns It was found."
When ho wns neen nt the Governor's
linmo tlili morning, before the departure
of the Governor, Attorney General Krnncls
Hhunk Brown. Mrs. Brumbaugh and tho
secretary on the 8:40 train for Harris
burg. Mr. lfcftl said that ho did not know
whether tho letter had been found.
"I don't know whether the Governor
found tho letter or not," he said. "Hveu
If ho has found It. it will not bo mado
public at this time."
MIXUP OVI3U A BAG.
All accident that occurred at tho West
Philadelphia station for a time promised
nn Interesting side-light on the mystery
of tho letter. Tho Governor, who had ap
peared refreshed at his home early this
mornnlg, wns nervous under tho question
ing of tho newspapermen, nnd when tho
train left a traveling tiag wns left on tho
station platforn; where the Governor had
been standing.
"That Is tho Governor's bag," shouted
soveral persons,
A-jitntlnn porter 'grabbed the bag., and.
ran after the train. He lost the race, and
placed tho bag In the care of tho station
master. Speculation ns to whether tho
Governor had found the letter and left
It In his bag was rife until a man, who
declined to give his name nnd Insisted that
tho bag wns not the Governor's, but be
longed to him, nppeared and carried it
awny. Thev porter who cuirlcd the Gov
ernor's bags from the nutomobllo to the
train declared that ho had placed all
three of Governor Brumbaugh's bags In
the Governor's coiiHiartnicnt on the train.
The apparent mystery concerning thn let
ter may ho denied up when the Governor
arrives In Harrisburg. Just before noon.
It was said that if tho Governor should
llnd tho letter here, ho would wait until
lie reached Hairlsburg before making it
public.
Tho nttitudn of Senator George T. Oll-
t'nntinurrl nn I'nce Six, Column One
PRELMINARYREPORT
ON SOARING GASOLINE
HINTS AT PRICE-FKING
Figui'es Given Congress by Fed
eral Trade Commission
Only "Tentative," Says
Explanation
BIGGEST BOOST IN EAST
Washington, April 10 A preliminary
report on the Investigation of the In
creased price of gasoline, now being con
ducted by tho Federal Trado Commission
was transmited tn Congress today. The
report explains the method tho commis
sion Is pursuing nnd submitted borne "ten
tative" statistics as to production and
price. The commlslnn explains that the
gasoline investigation necessarily Involves
an Inquiry Into the whole petroleum In
dustry. A series of tables showing monthly pro
duction of crude oil and gasoline during
1915, average monthly prices for crude
oil, kerosene, gasoline and fuel oil, and
other statistical matter accompanies the
report. But the commission says:
"Being prepared at an early stage In
the investigation, and returns not being
complete from all refiners, those tables are
to be regarded as tentative. Due caution
should be used In drawing conclusions
from them."
Tho inu'o table shows that while crude
oil In tho 'Western field increased In price
from 1.3 cents a gallon In August to 1 67
In December, the price of gasoline In the
same period Increased from 6.61 to 11.49
cents. In the Kastern field crude ad
vanced from 3,50 to 5.05 cents and gaso
line from 9 05 to 15 cents a gallon. Tha
prices used In tho table are refinery
prices and show in the Western field an
increase of 1.17 cents a gallon for crude
oil und 4.S8 cents for gasoline. In the
Kastern field crude oil Increased 1.55 cents
and gasoline increased 5.5, cents.
As to the causes of Increased prices, the
report said!
"In Investigating causes, the commission
is considering both domestic and foreign
conditions, and is weighing every factor
to detect any artificial or manipulative
element. The following points are being
examined: Forces of demand and sup
ply as affecting the price of crude oil,
exports and imports, deterioration of
quality of crude. Increased cost of re
fining, Improved methods and speculative
holding of crude and gasoline.
"The close connection between the In
vestigations of high prices and of alleged
discrimination in prices should be noted
If prices ara found to have been raised to
higher levels In some sections than In
others, making dua allowance for quality
of products, freight and marketing condi
tions, It may be Inferred that an clement
of artificial manipulation, has entered Into
the adxf -"
QUICK
VAITE PLEADS NOT GUILTY OF MURDER
NEW YOItK, Anrll 10. Dr. Arthur Wairen Wnlte plentlcd Hat
guilty lo the chaVgo of the lmmlrr of John E. !Peok, Grand .Rapid
nillltonnlic, when nrrnigucd In the Con it of Gciifirnl Sessions today
His counsel risked leave to withdraw the plea or make such motion,
ns ho saw fit Within ten days Waitc wa1? then removed to the Tomh
NEGRO LYNCHED IN OKLAHOMA
LAU'TOr, Okln., April 10. An unmasked mob of 200 men nnd
hoys took Carl Dudley, a negro, ftoin the county jail hcte early today
ami allot him to death in the Jail yard, The body was then hitched
out o un automobile and diagged tluough the attests while bullet:,
were fired into il. Dudley shot Policeman James Hnycs Matuiday, the
wounds lcatilting in death.
COMPLAINT REGARDING FREIGHT RATES DISMISSED
WASHINGTON, April 10. The complaint of the freight bureau of tho Mer
chants and Mnnufneturcrs' Association thnt class rates from New York, Phila
delphia and Baltimore to Birmingham, Aln., wero unreasonable wns dismissed by
the Interstate Commerco Commission today. Tho Atlantic Coast Lino and other
carriers concerned had altered tho rates objected to.
PRESIDENT HAS A COLD; CANCELS ENGAGEMENTS
WASHINGTON, April 10. President Wilson, suffering with a very trouble
some cold, canceled nil his engagements todny nnd remained In tho White House.
The President contracted a slight cold last Friday. Ho decided to tnlto a river
trip In tho hopo that ho would be ablo to throw It off. Had weather, howovcr,
forced hlm to return. "Yesterday found him very uncomfortable. It wns reported
nt tho White House early today, however, that ho was much Improved.
CAR SHORTAGE CLOSES POTTSVILLE COLLIERIES
POTTSVILLE, Pa.. April 10. Tho collleilcs In tho entire region aro shut
down todny, owing to scarcity of cars. This, too, In fnco of the fact that yester
day was Sunday, a day when the railroads had sufficient time to convoy cars to
tho several collieries in tlmo for work this morning.
LONDON ESTIMATES GERMAN LOSSES AT 2,730,917
LONDON, April 10. German losses to dato total L',730,917, London news
papers flguro by nddlng tho German official casualty list. Of these. C81, 137 havo
been killed.
WEATHER RETARDS BRITISH IN KUT RELIEF
LONDON, April 10. Preparations by tho British for another drlvo in Meso
potamia in an effort to rollovo the English army shut up In Kut El Amara havo
been hampered by tho weather, it is stated in official dispatches from General
Sir Percy Lake, commander of alio British forces In that district,
GERMAN MEAT RATIONS TO BE ALLOTTED TODAY
' "BEiIEiIN, Aprll-lO.--Maximum'mcat prices, the nnunmuof meat to bo allotted,,
dally to each individual and tho manner of distribution will be agreed upon
today, ncpiesentatlves of all the greatest Berlin municipalities will meet for a
discussion of tho food problem A decision, however, may have to wait on ft
general census of live stock In the empire, which begins Saturday. Tho censua
will ineludo horses, cattle, sheep, hogs, goats, tame rabbits and poultry.
CHANNEL RETAINS DEPTH OF AT LEAST 30 FEET
The Delaware River channel has been found to be at least 30 feot In depth,
despite the deposit of winter silt, according to Government engineers, A survey
completed by tho department under tho direction of Colonel Georges A. Zlnn shown
that tho channel is in good condition.
SWALLOWS POISON TO SHOW WIFE HE HAD "NERVE"
Henry "Wclnholt held n glass of poison to his lips at his homo, 2430 Harold
street, and said ho would drink It. Ills wife laughed and replied that bo had not
tho nerve. Tho man answered liy drinking tho fluid and fell to tho floor uncon
scious. Ho wns taken to tho Women's Homeopnthie Hospital, where hu Is In a
serious condition.
NORWEGIAN WOMEN ELIGIBLE TO CABINET
CHRISTIANIA. Norway, April 10. The Storthing has agreed by 01 votes to
14 to nn amendment of tho fundamental laws enabling women to be appointed
members of tha Council of Stnte. This body In the Scandinavian kingdoms cor
responds to what Is known ns tho Cabinet or Ministry In most other European
countries. Tho Norwegian Council of State at present consists of nine members.
The Storthing is tho Norwegian Parliament.
MAXIM GORKY GRAVELY ILL FROM PNEUMONIA
LONDON, April 10. An Exchange Telegraph dispatch from Amsterdam says
that reports reaching Holland through Berlin are to the effect that Maxim Gorky,
the Russian author, Is suffering from pneumonia at Moscow. His condition is
declared to bo alarming.
BELGIAN SCHOOL TEACHERS FACE TREASON CHARGE
AMSTERDAM, April 10. Director Concheteux, of the St, Louis Church School,
and a teacher named Truvens have been arrested for treason, according to a Brus
sels dispatch. They aro charged with assisting young Belgians to join the army.
BRITISH CAPTURE FIRST FOKKER PLANE
LONDON, April 10. The BiJtlsh War Office last night issued the following
communication: "A Fokkcr monoplane descended inside our lines yesterday.
The pilot, who was unwounded, was taken prisoner. Tills is the first Fokker
machine, the newest "ind most powerful type of German aeroplane, reported
captured."
GREEK MINISTER OF FINANCE QUITS CABINET
LONDON, April 10.Stephen Dragoumis, Greek Minister of Finance, has re
signed his portfolio, says a Router dispatch from Athens. He is succeeded by
T. G, Rhallls, Minister of Justice and Communications, who retains the Com
munications portfolio, M. Hatzaker becoming Minister of Justice.
RUSSIA SHUTS OFF ALL EXPORTS TO RUMANIA
BERLIN, April 10. "The Russian Government has. canceled alt permits for
exports to Rumania, according to a dispatch from Bucharest," Bays the Over
seas News Agency Jpday. "This measure is considered an outcome of the recent
Paris conference of the Entente and as having been taken in order to put pressure,
upon neutrals and multiply the difficulties ot relations with the Central Powers,
with whom Rumania's commercial relations have recently been drawn closer.'
LITTLE GIRL FALLS INTO PAIL OF BOILING WATER
Three-year-old Helen Carmlchael, of S083 Dickinson street, is In a critical con
dition in the Polyclinic Hospital today as the result of a scalding' she received
when she fell into a bucket of boiling; water at her home. The mother was.
preparing the water for bathing purposes. She left the room for a minute to
get the soap. When she returned she found the child in the water.
FIANCEE FORGIVES STUDENT JEKYL-HYDE
Lorlng P. Crossman. the Haverford College student whose dual personality
led blm to terrorize women while living: at Elizabeth, N. J., has ben forgiven
by his fiancee, Mies Mary Florence Huwkea, librarian at the Portland Public
Library. They have obtained a marriage license at Lawrence, Mass. Crossman-
was sentenced to pay a fine of J6Q or spend six months la jail. He explained,
that ha had a dual personality sine reading -Dr. Jekyll and Mr Hxde IU
father, George L. Crossman, president of the Portland Chamber ot Commerce,
'paid the fine,
NEWS
v
? f
i
1
