BB MBBi9MMBBMiMiMMlfcB 8MBBiMli!IH
m ...... HH
I Today's Metal Prices I ' T ty V flft ivX l tl Mfttf mY1X 1 4 ? ' "' m Wm I 1
i nearby. S28.0029.00: June and fit f " and Probab,y Tuesday; Warmer To- M
;i er, $27.25 $28.00. ,a l - n,9ht ,n Southwest Portion, HI
' FEARLESS, INDEPENDENT, PROGRESSIVE NEWSPAPER. l H
i . : ;
) Forty-sixth Year-No. 86. Mws Fjve Centa. QGDEN CITY, UTAH, MONDAY EVENING, APRJL 10, 1916. Ba(agad M B,cond - Matter at -TePcBtomce, Ogaen, TOIL ?
j Germans Attack French En Masse, Capture I
; : - 9 j 5 Men and Take Important Positions I
i . . -. . i 'i
L FRENCH HOLD MAIN PART OF LINE I
f UNDER GERMAN HAMMER BLOWS
j .
tj Germans Advance in Great Force on Verdun, Are Rolled
i Back Three Times But Finally Gain Foothold of 500
5 Yards at Important Point British Prepare for New
? Attack in Msopotamia Austrians and Italians
Are Engaged in Fierce Fight.
,
Paris, April 10, 10:23 a. m. The
i Germans continued their attack las?
1 night in the Verdun region east and
' west of the Meuse over a front 13
miles long, from Hill 304 to Fort
;l Douaumont The war office announce-
-, mcnt today says that In the fghting
, west of the river for possession of
Dead Man's Hill, the Germans were
repulsed except on a front of 500
; yards near Hill No. 295. East of the
,j river the German assaults gained
' no appreciable results.
j The text of the statement follows:
"West of the Meuse 'bombardments
' continued violently last night. It was
i) particularly directed against Hill No.
304. The attack delivered yesterday
evening against Dead Man's Hill and
,' which was, generally speaking, re-
) pulsed with importaut losses to our
fi adversaries, made it possible for the
Germans to penetrate our advanced
trench at Hill No 295 along the front
of about 500 yards. We took about
100 prisoners.
French Make Progress.
'East of the Mouse there was
spirited fighting last night in the Iit
i tie wood of Fontane St. Martin, east
5 of Bacherauville We have made
progress in the communicating
1 trenches of the enemy south of the
village of Douaumont.
i "In the Woevro there has been
i bombardment of the villages In the
foothills of the Meuse heights.
-j "It has been confirmed that the day
i of April 9, In the region of Verdun,
J was marked by the general offensivo
, j movement in which the forces of the
enemy attacked over a front of more
than 20 kilometers (13 miles). Our
' adversaries, who have not achieved
any results, commensurate to their
r effort, suffered losses, the extent of
;j which is evidenced by the bodies piled
j up In front of our lines,
i, "There has been no occurrence of
h importance on the remainder of the
;j front."
I Berlin, April 10, via London, 4:2S p
j m. The war office announced today
I that in the fighting near Bethincourt,
h In the Verdun region, the town and
J two fortified polntB of the fort to the
southwest were Isolated. The French
jk were cut off, losing 714 prisoners, two
h guns and 15 machine guns. The loss-
V es of the French In killed) or wound-
. ed were considerable.
' The statement follows:
I "Western front: Attempts by bomb-
.' ing parties of the enemy to recapture
i Tcrv-xr aef nViHaViayl nnolflAna in mina
I craters, south of St. Elol, were re-
I pulBed. The mine fighting between
I ' La Bassee and Arras canals has in-
-j '' creased in Intensity In the last few
I" daya.
Heavy Losses Inflicted.
"Westof the Meuse, Bethincourt and
I also the fortified polts of support
fc known as Alsace and Lorraine south
f, of Bethincourt, were Isolated. The
enemy sought to avoid danger by a
1 haaty retreat but was cut off by Sllesl-
1 ans who, in addition to inflicting
j heavy losses, enabled us to take four-
-j teen officers and about 700 unwound-
'; ed men. prisoners. Two gunB and 15
4 i machine guns also were captured. At
; the same time we cleared enemy en-
h campments, blockhouses and positions
( ' which had obstructed us on various
;; points on the front, both due north
7 of the Tillage ot Avocourt and south
; of OrowB woods. In these operations
we were able to inflict losses on the
French. The enemy lost in prisoners
!- 275 men and several officers.
Polvre Rldgo Cleared.
i "To the right of the Meuse, a wood
n on the southwestern, border of Polvre
;' ridge was cleared in similar manner.
J Four officers, 184 men and a quantity
of material remained in our hands.
', Further east and in the "Woevre there
was only artillery fighting.
fl ? "In various aerial fights one French
1 j aeroplane was shot down east of
Damloupe and one northeast of Oha
l teau Sallns. The occupants of the
' former wero dead. An enemy aero
5 plane crashed to earth in the village
of Loos and another in Caillette for
i est."
I Review of War Situation.
, i In a desperate struggle for posses-
It slon cf Dead Man's Hill, the French
1. lines were penetrated last night for
I PANTAGES
t VAUDEVILLE
II AT THE ORPHEUM
OPENS THIS WEEK
. K' WEDNESDAY
I K Headlined by
llK THE CANNIBAL MAIDS
UK OTIS SKINNER PLAYS
IK. THURSDAY NIGHT
Hb l"
a distance of about five hundred
yards in the vicinity of the height, the
French official statement says today,
in reporting a battle which raged in
the Verdun region along a thirteen
mile front north of the stronghold.
Elsewhere the French stood the test
of the savage attacks of the Germans.
The British are preparing for a now
advance in Mesopotamia where the
relief force on the Tigris is gradual
ly approaching closer to Kut-el-Am-ara,
across the British official re
ports. The sinking of three British addi
tional steamers is announced from
London. They were the Silksworth
Hall, the Glenalmond and the Yonne.
French Lose Many Prisoners.
The German official account of the
movement In the Bethincourt salient
says Bethincourt and two fortified
points southwest were Isolated and
that the French were cut off, losing
714 prisoners, two guns, 15 machine
guns and a considerable number of
killed or wounded
London, reports the sinking of the
4,300 ton steamer Eastern City, a
freighter engaged in the transatlan
tic service.
Austrian War Report.
Berlin, April 10, by wireless to Say
ville. The following statement was
given out today by the Austrian war
office:
"Italian front: In the Gorizia dis
trict towns behind the Austro-Hun-garian
front were held under the fire
of the enemy's artillery. An aero
plane which came to land near Lucl-
nlco was destroyeu oy Auairo-nuuKai-ian
artillery
"In the Sugana valley the Italians
set fire to Caldonazzo with their
shells. Hostile aeroplanes threw
bombs on Riva.
"On the Tonale road the enemy
gained a footing In advanced trench
es south of Speronz.
Greeks Aid Bulgars.
Paris, April 9, 5 p. m -The Temps
publishes a dispatch from Athens quot
ing the Patris of that city to the ef
fect that the ministers of the entente
powers have complained to the Greek
government that 37,000 flour sacks be
longing to Russia have beeu handed
over by Greek authorities to Bulgaria.
These sacks were requisitioned by the
commissary department for the army
but are said to have been transported
clandestinely to Bulgaria.
Steamship Eastern City Sunk.
London, April 10, 3:20 p. m The
BrltiBh steamship Eastern City of
3432 tons gross is reported to have
been sunk. According to information
received at Lloyd's the vessel was not
armed.
The latest reports published regard
ing the movements of the Eastern
City record the sailing of the vessel
from New York February 29 for St,
Nazalre The vessel was 329 feet
long 52 feet beam and 24 feet deep.
She 'was built in 1903 and owned by
the St. Just Steamship company.
A Llovd's dispatch from Cardiff,
Wales, says the French steamship
Libra has landed the captain and
crew of the Norwegian steamer Sjoll
stadt 997 tons, which was sunk with
out warning by a tqrpedo from a Ger
man submarine 25 miles north of the
Island of Quesoant, off the French
coast, northwest of Brest.
Socialises Support Government
Paris, April 10, 4:55 a. m. A meet
ing of the national council of the
French Socialist party last night pass
ed a resolution in favor of the party's
continuing to give Its closest support
to the government for national de
fense. A resolution against renewal
of relations with the international So
cialistic bureau was passed by a vote
of 1,700 to 1,000.
-
PLOT TO BLOW
UP A RAILROAD
Germans in Shanghai Had
Planned to Destroy Bridges
and Ships.
Vancouver, B. C, April 10. News
papers received aboard the EmpresB
of Russia give details of a plot re
cently discovered in Shanghai Involv
ing destruction of bridges on the
Manchurlan railway connecting with
Russian territory and the placing of
bombs aboard the Bteamshlp Empress
of RusBla before she left on the trip
just ended.
Details of the original plot for the
supply of several thousand rifles, am-
j munition and automatic Dlstols to a
raiding vessel In the service of the
Germans came out when two Shang
hai merchants named Abbans, father
and son, were arresCed. The rifles
wero splzed, the elder Abbas sen
tenced to fifteen years' imprisonment
and his son to two years.
Further investigation led to the dis
covery of a plant for making bombs
and heavy ammunition, but for a long
time none of the products could be
found. The French police In Shang
hai finally discovered some boxes in
the bottom of a pond. The boxes
were raised and were found to con
tain artillery shells for field pieces.
Arrest of a half caste Chlneso fol
lowed. He confessed that he was in
structed by a German named Nellson.
for several years a resident in Shang
hai, to organize two parties, oue to
proceed north to blow up the bridges
of the Manchurlan railway and the
other to go to Hong Kong and put
time bombs aboard the Emperess of
Russia, then preparing for her trip
, to Vancouver.
The case was still before the au
thorities when the steamer left.
GERMANS AHACK
IN DENSE MASSES
Division and a Half Charges
Line Between Avocourt and
Bethincourt Losing
Many Men.
Three Terrific Onslaughts Fail
to Shake French Forces
Other Advances Made
Simultaneously.
Paris, April 10, 10-45 a. m Aban
doning the new open formation and
the lately established practice of night
attack, the Germans yesterday engag
ed two army corps In dense masses
against the French positions nprth
west of Verdun, between Avocourt
and Cumleres. Forces numbering at
least a division and a half charged
me une ueiwet'n Avocuuri miu ubuhu
court. They approached within a
hundred yards of the French trenches
and seemed insensible to the fact that
hundreds of their men were falling
by the way, but, notwithstanding their
courage and the weight of their mass
es, they were stopped at the dead line
beyond which they could not pass.
When the attacking columns were
thinned out by artillery and machine
gun fire so that a re-formation be
came necessary, the order to retire
was given. Twice they were obliged
to fill up the gapB In their ranks but
none of their three onslaughts shook
the French line which had been con
siderably strengthened In the region
of Bethincourt by the withdrawal of
forces from the dangerously exposed
Balient to commanding positions be
hind the village
Two fresh divisions attacked Dead
Man's Hill while the assault was In
progress on the Bethincourt line, other
forces at the same time trying to slip
through the ravine near Cumieres. To
aid the maneuver, another attack was
simultaneously mado on the east bank
of the Mouse In the region of Champ-neuvllle-VacherauvIlle.
The few hun
dred men who had succeeded In pene
trating the ravine were loft on the
field after the action proved unsuc
cessful. A third attack at the same time was
delivered on a position Btrongly or
ganized by the French northeast of
Avocourt, the object seemingly being
to drive In the French line far enough
to turn Hill 304 which lies SOW yards
south and constitutes what is char
acterized bb the "Gibraltar in the
French lino" in that district This
attack was made with more success
than the others, but after the Germans
had succeeded In getting, a footing at
points In some parts of the French
trenches, the French countor attack
ed and the net result of the action
was an Increase of their Iossob from
the French bayonets. It was stated
at the cloae of the day the Fronch
held exactly the same position as at
the beginning of the attack.
The Gorman looses are again said
to have been on the basis of 50 per
cent of thb effectives engaged and
these Include a considerable propor
tion of the Gorman reserves.
German Failure Encourages France.
Paris, April 10, 5:45 a. m. The fail
ure of the latest hammer stroke of
the Germans at Verdun has greatly
encouraged the French press and
public and confirms still further the
general confidence felt in tho ability
of tho high command. Tho attack
Is stated to have been one of tho
most determined of the great blows
delivered since the battle begun sov
erwal days ago and yet It yielded the
least results of any of them, although
the crown prince hurled two whole
army corps against tho French along
a ton-mile front.
As Bethincourt formed a dangerous
salient, its evacuation has beon ex
pected for some time and many mili
tary observors long ago criticized its
retention. General Petaln's unerring
judgment in letting it go at exactly
tho right moment 1b now highly
praised. While of little value to the
French, it is of almost none to the
Germans as it is located in a hollow
commanded by French guns on all
sides out of which It Is practically
impossible- for thorn to debouch.
GEN. SALAZAR
CROSSES BORDER
Former Huerta Officer Goes
Into Mexico With Avowedly
Hostile Intentions Toward
United States.
PROCLAMATION FOUND
General Calls on All Patriotic
Mexicans to Join in Protect
ing Soil of Native
Country.
El Paso, April 10. There was con
siderable mystery today over the re
ported crossing of the border by Gen
oral Ynez Salazar, the former Huerta
general, who has been living hero and
who is said to have gone into Mexico
with avowedly hostile intentions to
ward the United States.
1 The story of the crossing was told
the police by a man who had been
closely associated with Salazar. An
in estigation was made and latere tho
police announced they believed the
storj to be true. Mrs. Salazar was
questioned and said her husband was
away from homo but she did not know
where he was. She denied, however,
that he had entered Mexico
In the meantime a proclamation was
discovered, purporting to be signed by
Salazar, In which he called on all
patriotic Mexicans to join him in tho
protection of Mexican soil. Elfago
Baca, who defended Salazar at his
trial for gun-running, declared that
the signature to the proclamation was
undeniably genuine.
Salazars proclamation.
The proclamation said in part:
"The attitude of Carranza, always
hostile to every Individual, corpora
tion, or party, not subservient to hlin.
which maintains m exile the most
cultured, honest and well-to-do por
tion of the Mexican family; tho an
archy created by the very party that
tonallst;" their Inability to run down
bandits, who, like Villa, are the op
probrium of the nation and an eternal
stain in our history, being at least the
cause of the North American nvasion
of our beloved soil, impels me again
to spring to the armed struggle, de
termined to do all I can. for the salva
tion of our country and our honr."
Union of All Mexicans.
After declaring that his first pur
pose is tho union of all Mexicans for
tho national defense, he concludes
with a statement that ho is wiling to
turn the direction of tho campaign
over to any patriotic body of men who
are worthy of It,
General Petronlllo Hernandez, with
forces variously estimated at from
1,000 to 3,000 men, is scheduled to ar
rive In Juarez to tako over the mili
tary command of the town from Gen
eral Gavlra, according to Information
from Mexican sources. According to
the same sources General Gavlra will
go to Casas Grandes, where he will
bo assigned to a field command,
Carranza Troops Continually
Maneuvering.
The constant maneuvering of Car
ranza troops between points close to
the border seems to be growing on
the nerves of tho people of El Paso.
It is a favorite topic of dlscusson on
the street corners, in restaurants, ho
tel lobbies and other places where
men congregate,-but as the Mexican
officials here and in Jaurez refuse to
discuss the matter In any way or give
evasive answers to all questions, the
subject remains one of almost pure
speculation.
It Is known that the maneuvers
have been closely watched by govern
ment officials along tho border and
that frequent reports aro being made
to Washington, but federal plllclals
profess to be as much In the dark as
any one else In regard to the mean
in gof these troop movements.
American Offers Explanation.
One explanation which was offered
today by an American who was form
erly lu close touch with the Mexican
government found many acceptors.
ThlB man said he believed General
Carranza was preparing to take ad
vantage of tho clauso in the agree
ment with Washington over tho Villa
pursuit which provides that that tho
American troops bo withdrawn as soon
as tho do facto government can cope
with tho situation.
"If Carranza can mass 25,000 or 30,
000 soldiers in northern Chlhauhau
and Sonora," he said, "ha can contend
with a good show of reason that he Is
In a position to handle any number
of men Villa can collect and give pro.
tectlon to tho border also. It Ib not
easy to see what reply "Washington
could make, except to order the with
drawal of tho expeditionary force."
Local authorities had no additional
Information regarding the progross ot
the revolution reported to have been
Inaugurated by General Jose Ynez
Salazar.
8alazar Visits Malcontents.
Salazar recently has been living at
Las Cruces. N. M., from whloh point
he has made repeated night trips by
motor to El Paso and vicinity. Ac
cording to the police each trip has
brought him in touch with some por
tion of the many Mexican malcontents
that have takon refuge on this side of
the border since the ascendancy of
the Carranzlstas.
It is believed that if Salazar and his
adherents have crossed the morder
they did so not far from El Paso,
probably to the west. If this be cor
rect, Salazar's first operations must
be in the state of Chihuahua and of
"Iclals here believe he may attempt to
foment disturbances among the Car
ranzista troops now reported gath
ering in increasing numbers in north
ern Chihuahua, ""
Hard Sledding For Salazar.
It Is pointed out that if the report
ed co-operations of the Carranzista
ind American troops is to be believed
he new revolution will have hard
3ledding.
Another Mexico Northwestern train
eft Juarez this morning for Casas
GJraudes and Pearson. It was compos
ed of two passenger and ten freight
-ars. The latter were loaded with
supplies which private concerns ex
pect to sell to the American troops.
Garcia Issues Statement.
Consul AndreB Garcia, reporting the
Carranza government in El Paso an
nounced today that he had found It
necessary to put censorship on newa
attributed to his office.
Mr. Garcia authorizing the follow
ing statement:
"Having attributed to me in certain
newspapers statements dealing with
International affairs developing on
this frontier which I did noUmnke, I
consider It necessary to declare that
In the future I shall give out to cor
respondents only In writing tho state
ments and pieces of news that they
seek for publication."
nn
GENERAL VILLA
NOW AT PARRAL
Bandit and Followers Seen at
Camargo Saturday Is Report
of Carranza General.
DEFEATED IN LAST FIGHT
No Ban Placed on United
States Troops Relations
Between de Facto Troops
and Americans Cordial.
El Paso, Texas, April 10. Confir
mation of reports that Francisco VI1-"
la was in the neighborhood of Parral,
or had passed it, was brought to i
Juarez today by General Bertani.a the .
Carranza commander- at Maderl.a '
General BertanI who came to Juar
ez for a conference with his superior,
General Gavlra, said that before he
left Madeira, Saturday, authentic re
ports were received that Villa had
been seen at Camargo. This town Is
about sixty miles northeast of Par
ral. Proceeding at his previous
speed, tho bandit leader would have
easily made Parral. BertanI had no
report on how close the American
troops were following.
Vllllsta Forces Defeated.
The last fight between Carranistas
and Villistas occurred at San Fran
cisco dc Borja four days ago, the gen
eral said, the Villistas being defeated
and leaving behind them a number of
dead and wounded.
General BertanI said he had abso
lute confirmation that Villa had been
wounded. The bandit was shot In the
left leg, he said, and was further in
jured when his horse fell on him,
breaking the bones of the leg.
He reported detachments of the
American forces at Santa Ana and
Namlqulpa.
No Ban on Americans.
Both General Gavlra and General
Bertani asserted today they had no
knowledge that any fan had been
placed on the operations of American
troops In Mexico.
"I understand, however," General
Bertani added, "that the American
forces would be willing to withdraw
as soon as the Vllllsta organizations
aie thoroughly broken up."
"So far, the relations of the de
facto troops and the American sol
diers have been friendly and co-operative.
There has not been a single
unpleasant incident."
General Gavlra, the Juarez com
mandant, denied he was to be super
seded by General Hernandez.
IOWA HOLDING
STATE PRIMARY
Senator Cummins and Presi
dent Wilson Meet No Oppo
sition as Presidential
Nominees.
Des Moines, la., April 10. Iowa's
state wide presidential preference pri
mary is being held today. Electors
throughout the state are voting for
candidates for president and vice
president of tho United States, mem
bers of the national party commit
tees and delegates and alternates to
tho national and party conventions.
Npither Senator Cummins, the Re
publican candidate for the presiden-l
tial nomination, nor President Wilson
the Democratic, candidate is -opposed.
J.
MI
IGEN. PERSHING'S TROOPS CLOSE I
ON HEELS OF FRANCISCO VILLA I
Wounded Bandit Near Parral With 200 Followers American H
Headquarters Move Further South to Be in Close Touch H
With Field of Operations No Ban Placed on Move H
ments of U. S. Troops, Carranza Troops Thus v H
Far Cordially Co-operating Army H
Wireless Being Extended. H
- iH
San Antonio, Texas, April 10. The two companies of ;H
the 24th infantry, a negro organization stationed at Del Rio, .fl
will be withdrawn and sent into Mexico for service along the 'H
line of communication. This decision was reached follow- fl
ing a request from the mayor of Del Rio after the rioting Sat- Q
urday in which a negro soldier was killed by a Texas ranger. "
iM
With Generaf Pershing at tho front
below Namlqulpa, April 9. By Radio
to Columbus, N. M April 10. Two
aeroplanes which flew from here to
Chlhuhau City returned today, bring
ing to General J. J. Pershing expedi
tionary commander reports that the
constitutionalists commanders in that
city are co-operating cordially with
the American forces In the pursuit of
Villa. The planes carried dispatches
to the constitutionalist authorities
which General Pershing described as
important
The arrival of the two fliers in
Chihuahua caused great excitement
among the populace since their com
ing had not been announced. This,
however, subsided 'as coon as their
identity was determined. The avia
tors reported they were entertained
hospitably by the constitutionalist of
ficers and an official reception was
given them.
Reception For Aviators.
This reception Is taken by General
Tershing and his staff as being one
of the most reassuring Incidents of
the progress of the expeditionary force
in Mexico.
Tho air scouts left hero yesterday
at daylight, reaching Chihuahua In
about two hours and making the re
turn trip in the same time. As the
planes left the .clty one of . them
circled over it as a farewell salute to
, the populace. The flying conditions
I over this route were reported excel-
lent,
Pershing Moves Camp South.
General Pershing moved his head
quarters south today to a point where
it is In closer touch with the actual
field of operation south of Satevo.
Early Capture of Villa Expected.
Washington, April 10. Optimism
for the early capture of Francisco Vil
la pervaded official circles today de
spite the fact that nearly a week has
passed since news of the American
troops In Mexico has come to the war
department.
Many officials were of the opinion
that many Important military develop
ments may have occurred and that It
was Impossible for the extreme ad
vancing columns last reported on Vil
la's heelB near Satevo, to communi
cate with their field base.
The latest report from General Fun
ston saying that an adequate quan
tity of commissary stores and gaso
line had reached Casas Grandes, con
vinced administration officials that
fh( mnpnl nrnblp.m of nrovisioninc
the troops has been relieved.
Message From Funston.
Overnight dispatches -from General
Funston to tho Avar department made
public by Secretary Baker today, were
summarized In the following state
ment: "Tho latest dispatch from General
Pershing, dated April 8, explains In
frequency of communication by say
ing that the wireless has not been able
to work and aeroplane communication
has been difficult because of suitable
landing places.
"Tho dispatch again confirms the
early report of Villa being severely
wounded In tho right knee.
Arrangements With General Herrera.
"General Pershing reports that he
has had a very satisfactory conference
with Goneral Herrera and expects to
meet today General Gutierrez to whom
he sent messages by aeroplane to Chi
huahua and received back replies of
full co-operation. General Pershing's
comment Is that every Indication
shows the desire of the troops of tho
de facto government to aid to the ex
tent of their ability.
"General Pershing further reports
that one aeroplane was disabled in
landing April 6, leaving only five out
of the original eight now In service
able condition but It is evident that
the aeroplanes in use are performing
Indispensablo Bervlce and that great
reliance Is placed upon them."
Railroad Situation Improves.
Secretary Baker said today that the
railroad situation In Mexico was much
Improved nnd that supplies In increas
ing quantities were going 'forward to
the American troops In Mexico. Re
ports from all points along the border
Indicate that the Carranza forces were
co-operating In tho pursuit of Villa.
Secretary Baker said he had no in
formation regarding El Paso rumors
that Carranza troops wero being mob
ilized along tho American lino of
communication. He also declared
General Funston had not Indicated
need for additional forces ior-usq in,
Mexico or border patrol, beyond the H
new recruits recently authorized by jH
congress to fill the border regiments. 'H
The first of the eight new aero- IjH
planes recently ordered 'for the Amer- H
lean troops in Mexico, has already H
been delivered at the testing grounds 1H
at 'the Newport Ne-. , Va. It will be !H
shipped to General Funston early this 'jM
week. jjH
De Facto Government Uneasy. !H
State department dispatches today
indicate that officials of the de facto 'jM
government are viewing with some )H
anxiety the continued presence of 'H
American troops in Mexico. One fl
such dlBpatch was described as con- MS
taining a hint that certain Mexican. ,j
officials believed the purpose of the 1M
American punitive expedition had jffj
been accomplished. The belief was H
based upon the assumption that the H
bandits under Villa has dispersed. 'fl
Consul General Rodgers, it was -H
learned today, .has advised tha departs jfl
ment that do tacto government offl-
clals at Queretaro had intimated to
him they would like to know how long LU
the "United States Intended to keep
the troops in Mexico. Administration jD
officials in a position to be familiar Wf
with the Mexican situation said the gf'Si
de (facto government had not set a B
date upon which they thought the filjj
American troops should be withdrawn. C j?
It was admitted in various quarters, jjl
however, that such action by the de nil
facto government would not be sur- ; B
prising. i
At both the state and war depart- l
ment It was said nothing was known jib
of reports of massing of Carranza's III
troops on General Pershing's rear. I
State department dispatches located ti
Villa heading toward Parral. H
Secretary Baker plans to leave to- 4
night for a brief viBlt to his home at j
Cleveland. He intends to return "Wed- 'A
nesday. j
ll:
Villa Heading for Durango. tj
El Paso, Texas, April 10. In his ,j
flight before the American cavalry
Francisco Villa Is believed today to j
have passed Parral and with his band, J ,
said to number over two hundred 1
men, Is reported to be heading to Du- jjt
rango city. Detachments of the Thlr- JJ
teenth cavalry are hard on the ban- hi
dlfs trail but no official word has fjl
come from the front to indicate their ji
position. Mexican reports stated to- j
day that Villa has a full day ahead III
of his pursuers. If Villa succeeds in I
reaching Durango City he probably II
will bo Joined by the force of the lljl
Arrleta brothers, who command over 1
1000 men. HL
Dead Line Story Denied. jiff
A statement attributed to Mexican li
Consul Garcia that Villa has now es- I.
enped any possibility of capture by .jl
tho Americans, having crossed a dead- il
line established by President Wilson I
and Carranza beyond which it was
agreed that the American troops jil.j
would not continue their pursuit for Jjr
tho bandit, was flatly denied by Mr. U,
Garcia. The Mexican consul said as K
far as he knew no limit of the Amer- HI;
lean pursuit had been agreed upon j I;
by the two governments. ill;
Mexican officials here will not dia- 1 i !
cuss a report that the de facto gov- j It
ernmont will soon Inform the Amer- j!
lean government that Is in a position jl;
to remove the United States of tho li
responsibility of chasing Villa. Gar- 1
cla said he had no Information of a j !
diplomatic character. I m
Supply Problem Serious. Ill
With Villa moving into Durango the j JJ
supply problem of the army continues J
to tho fore. Heavy shipments to con- I
tractors In Chihuahua City will prob- J
ably bo made from El Paso in a few - i
days. The tender of the use of the j '
telegraph and telephone lines by the Jl
de facto government to General Persh- f
ing will be of Immense aid in order- j
Ing and shipping supplies. f
j
Critical Stage Ahead of Army. i r
San Antonio, Texas, April 10. j 5
Army offlcors at General Funston'a j jfi
headquarters were almost convinced j j?
today that by the end of the week I U
the work of tho punitive expedition in IS
Mexico will have reached a critical J
stage. . ( If
No reports from General Pershing 1 11
were received last night or early to- ; j
day but those that have Teached Gen- I
oral Funston indicate that he is drlv- j
ing his cavalry farther and farther ,
into Mexico without question, in spite j
of the increasing danger that they '
.(Continued on Pago 70. j I
!
