2S?" HhtoJ
' Second St
Ashland
"Ashland Grows While Llthla flows"
City of Sunshine and flowers t
Ashland, Oregon, Llthla Springs
' "Oregon's famous Spa'
VOL. -XL
ASHLAND. OREGON, MONDAY, APHID 10 1916
NUMBKK 92
it tt it k. t-
1 DINGS
Conquer Summit
And Catch Sunburn
Three Big Nights
At Vining Theatre
This week la a big one at the Vin
ing Theatre. Never in the short
apace of seven days have so many
'really premier attractions been list
ed. '
Tuesday.
Marguerite Clark, by the magic of
her name the house is crowded, ap
pears In the dual role of the Prince
and the Pauper in a plcturlzatlon of
Mark Twain's famous and beloved
romance. Miss Clark's Interpretation
of the widely contrasting personali-1 son, Ilintliorne, Ilinton, Hutchison,
ties is a histrionic feat which will
rank among the greatest of modern
screen acting.
Faithfully preserving the delicious
satire, the thrilling romance and the
beautiful sentiments of Marie Twain's
immortal tale, the production delin
eates wth astonishing realism the
An intrepid party of six hardy
mountaineers garnered a most beau,
tiful dose of sunburn and accom
plished the ascent of Mount Ashland
last Saturday and Sunday. This is
the second party which has mado the
summit this year. Peeled faces will
be an easy means of identification
for several days to come, but for the
benefit of thoso who do not get down
into the busy marts of trade we will
publish the names Messrs. Steven-
Ling and Archie Eubanks. The pho
tographers secured some exceptional
ly beautiful views, weather conditions
being ideal, and are especially de
lighted with some snow scenes.
The party left Saturday afternoon,
camping several miles above Long's
cabin that night and making the sum-
adventures of tlie) weary little prince i niit and the return trip to Ashland
who longed to play beggar for a day, the next day. Considerable snow was
and of the ambitious Jlttle beggar (.encountered on the trail as it ap
proached the top.
who yearned to be a prince, both of
whom, through the'r remarkable re
semblance to each other, suddenly
find their hearts' desires gratified in
a totally unexpected and Intensely
dramatic manner. After many stir
ring complications, with shattered,
illusions, each longs to return to his
former and natural mode of exist
ence, a transition which is effected In
the further development of the story.
' Wednesday.
On Wednesday night comes a won
derfully strong William Fox feature
play, featuring Theda Bara in "The
Galley Slave." A more powerful
drama has never been screened. The
plot gives Theda Eara, the vampire
woman, unlimited scope for her ver-
a .u, , u ii - 4UiHe made the trip without mishap
ultima iiu an uuiui UlLUg:t j UllCft
"The Galley Slave" -s neVer lacking
In thrilling gripping, sensational,
emotional appeal.
- v . ,
Dead Chink Goes;
Live One Stays;
A member of the local Chinese col
ony died a few days ago and the i
body was sent to Yreka for inter-1
merit. A Yreka Chinaman was sent j
over to accompany the remains to .
the northern California city, but,
failed to return. The Yreka N'ews ,
Home Products
! Make Fine Dinner
Over two hundred and fifty Ash-
New Hotel Oregon
Near Completion
The Hotel Oregon in fast approach-
......:. n.nMMi hi uie conclusion last ing completion and already plans are
Saturday that Oregon products will ( being discussed for making a gala
make a better dinner than delicacies public event out of opening ay. The
gathered from the far distant corners ' management expects to have tho
of the earth. If there was one among building practically completed within
'the crowds which attended the Civic two or three weeks at the most and
Improvement Club's home-products j possibly sooner. The o d steps at
; dinner at the Elks temple Saturday the Main street entrance are helm;
who had ever enjoyed a better meal ' torn out and will be widened to make
we!!, we did not hear of him. All 'a niagnilicient broad sweep of steps
or the dishes served were Oregon to the main entrance. The arcade is
; products, donated for the greater , now ready for lis cement floor. The
;part by local merchants, with a con- ceiling of the veranda has been plns
: pie of Portland wholesalers repre- tered and the exterior of tho hugo
i sonled. The menu consisted or 1 arches is icady for the coat of stucco
; creamed salmon, cold ham, mashed cement.
i potatoes, stewed tomatoes, salad, i The entire building is to lie given
, oives, pickles, coffee, punch, rolls, a coat of cement water-proof paint
'pie and ice cream. Everything was the same color as the city hall, and
prepared by the ladies themselves , Ashland will wako up some morning
and served by an efficient bevy of ! nimble to recognize the old land-
young ladies. The dinner most as
suredly provided a convincing argu
ment for buying Oregon food products.
T 0
I f LtJ
Four Gateways to
The Pacific Coast
A beautifully Illustrated folder,
! "Tour Gateways to the Pacific
Coast," has just been issued by the
' lasseimer uonnriment or tno Houtn-1
n j tact mo enure exiei uir reconstruc
tion have heen most eiieruveiy
mark, the Hotel Oregon. Along tho
rai:ing of the upper veranda cement
boxes are built which will lio'd box
wood trees, relieving the abruptness
of the face of the building.
Each arch of the arcade will lie en
cire'ed with 1.1 linrtfs, making a total
of U'O decorative lights. Hanging
plants w'll be hung from the center
of eacli arch. The central entrnncn
will be lighted with two great lamp
posts. The Oregon will be n regu'ar
oasis of brilliance when completed.
The arches of the colonnade ind In
tells or apprenenslon over the ab- Mmgiipeiite ; .k in The Piinco nil d tbe Pauper," at the Vining Tues.
sence of the Yreka chink as follows: I , i! i, A n il 11.
"A Chinaman died in Ashland -' ' """" ' . -
few days ago and a loc
ern Pacific. This folder gives a ge
'oral fleHcrint inn nf tho Southern Pn
'etf.e mia n .h P.Mfin Pnna. 1 planned and lend an air of masslve-
through Portland, Ogden, El Paso
and New Orleans.
-mi chink was i
Thursday.
1 Preceded by the usual Thursday
concert by the Vining Theatre eight
piece orchestra, comes two Triangle
productions, Fred Mace In ft Key
stone comedy, "Crooked to the End,"
and Katherlne Kaelred with House
Peters In "The Winged Idol."
The comedy combines a succession
of laughable Incidents with sensation
al Incidents which heretofore have
been held sacred to the most thrill
ing of dime novel blood-curdlers. It
Is "different." A train wreck, a
street car falling over a cliff and a
dozen other hairbreadth escapes are
(Continued on Pace Eight.)
Talent Hikers
Visit Lithia Park
Rev. M. C. Heed and his Methodist
Junior Hikers' Club of the Methodist
church at Talent visited Ashland
parks and canyon Saturday, going up
as far as the falls. Twenty-five of
the Talent boys made up the party
and all enjoyed a most happy time,
going Into elstacies over the beauties
of the park and the canyon and con
cuming great quantities of the min
eral waters. They were brought up
from Talent In automobiles, Mr.
Reed, Mr. FInley and Mr. Weaver
furnishing means of transportation.
The boys, most of whom are farmers'
sons, were greatly Interested In the
workings of Perozzl's creamery, and
upon Invitation of the creamery men
went over the plant. Buttermilk in
unmeasurable quantities was con
sumed despite the d'sastrous results
which might be expected from mixing
lithia water and buttermilk.
. m mm mm 1 f
en UI? w oring the body to Yreka. Bim House txniDit
Tuesday at Library
and started back with the body safe
ly on board the train, but, strange to
relate, the live celectial has npt been
seen nor heard from since. The
corpse arrived in Yreka In due time,
minus its escort, and was duly in
terred Wednesday. The Incident has
caused much wonder in Chinatown.
In relating the story one Chinaman
concluded with: 'Dead man, he come
all lite. Live man, he no come
yet!' "
A visit to the Ashland Chinese col
ony revealed the fact that the Yreka
visitor had found Ashland m
Cozy little homes for our featherod
friends, little bird houses, b'g b'rd
Locals Given High
Ming By State
The various store, markets, candy
factories, bakeries, dairies and other
houses, some ornate, sonic built along p'aces where food is haivlled In Ash
plain "mission" lines, but all built to land are on the whole In a very good
make a home for a family of birds, condition, according to the report of
several dozen bird houses will be ex- the Inspectors of the state Dairy and
h'bited at tho library Tuesday after- Food Commission who recently In
noon. In the competition for the spected "the Ashland concerns. . In
prizes offered by the Civic Improve- cleanliness and sanitary methods the
ment Club. The boys, and some of Ashland places of business all ranked
the girls, have taken up the work of except'onaliy high, and the report
. home building with much interest, states that all seemed to be making
ut-ll 111 .
his liking and was still here, and In 1
fact Intended to remain in the city of j
llthla water for an indefinite stay.
Having made the trip over In safe
ty and fining the hospitality of the;
Ashland celestials much to his liking, j
he saw the remains of his departed I
countryman entrusted to the care of'
a Southern Pacific baggageman and j
settled down for a protracted visit I
without bothering to inform his
Yreka brethren of his Intentions.
and a very interesting exhibit Is a conscientious effort to better their
promised. It will be worth dropping rating. Wherever the rating did fall
in at the library to see. Two sets of it was because of construction or
prizes are offered by the club, one equipment.
for the grade children and one for The bakeries are reported to be in
the high school students. The first fair condition and a great iniprove-
prizes, $2 for the best bird house incut since the last inspection,
from each school, two $1.50 prizes The candy factories are very highly
Sugar Factory Will
Turn Loose $100,000
Grants Pass Courier: George E.
Sanders, general manager of the Oregon-Utah
Suar Company, left Wed
nesday night for Salt Lake City for
the purpose of holding a directors'
meeting, and he expects to return
and ten prizes t)f $1 each. A compe
tent committee will act as judges.
Most of the bird houses will be for
sale, and every Ashlander should plan
to purchase one If he can and put it
up near his residence. ' The birds will
commended, the report saying: "The
candy factories are in excellent con
dition. Very seldom do we find such
places any cleaner than the ones In
Ashland. If all places handling food
products would set their standard as
come. No "for rent" sign is neces- niKn 88 these an1 tnen try t0 attaln
sary.
Ben Bowers took a sackful of
coyote scalps over to the county seat ,
Monday to collect the bounty there
upon. "Doc" Cambers went along
to give the county clerk the benefit
of his expert testimony in determin- i
ing which of the scalps came from j
coyotes and which from the plain .
horo within three weeks, at which
,, . ,u .,! garden variety of house cats and dogs
time he announces the construction " . .
will begin on the silo, beet!"6"""8 "v . '""""" '' ' , "
$i.ou per eacn, Men reanzeci quiitj a
round little sum which will keep him
in "coon can" money for several
days.
Panoramic Views
-v Are on Display
work
sheds, railroad tracks, elevated tracks
and loading stations. This construc
tion work will amount to more than
$100,000 in money and will consume
large quantities of cement, sand,
crushed rock and lumber. The bill isaa a sxSxi.,... g0 doing
of lumber, which is now being bid on ' a . The dairvmen ranked verv
such standard, the sanitary part of
the food supply would be materially ,
Improved. The standards are gener
ally high enough, but too many do
not endeavor to come up to these
standards. Let these men keep on J
with their good work and try to In
duce others to do the same." j
No bad conditions were found I
around the hotels, which were mil- j
fornily clean and well kept. The res-
taurants were also in fine shape with
the exception of one or two where
food was not protected from dust and ,
dirt as It should be. One cafe was
found to be leaving fruit in tin cans
after opening, a very dangerous prac
tice, and was ordered to discontinue
. A prominent feature of this folder i
' Is a two-color map with Illustrated
! inserts which shows at a glance the
many scenic attractions of the west
lern states, and fittingly bearing out
! the Southern Pacific's new slogan,
".All the Pacific Coast Is a Show
: Plnce."
Representation is given Oregon
and Washington with eight pages of
j text and Illustrations. "Views of Se
attle, Tacoma and Portland are
shown, together with many of the
scenic points of Interest, such as
Mount Ranler-Tacoma, Mount Hood,
Rogue river, Crater lake and the Sis
kiyou s.
The new folder is pdlnted In or
ange and black. Its whole arrange
ment nnd design should make a
strong appeal to the tourist, and
should result in beneficial results to
the Pacific northwest. The publica
tion Is to be given wide distribution
throughout the east. Copies can be
obtained by addressing Mr. John M.
Scott, General Passenger Agent,
Southern Pacific, Portland, Ore.
Ashland gets a prominent place in
the delineation of the attractions of
the Shasta Route, the folder stating:
"The way leads onward amidst flour
ishing farms and miles of orchards,
through Grants Pass and Medford to
Ashland, a delightful city In the foot
hills of the Slskfyous, with mineral
springs which attract many visitors."
ness to tho building which could bo
obtained In no other way.
The niany-paned windows of thn
I lower floor will be replaced by Im
mense plate g'ass windows nnd the
lobby entrance fitted with plate glass
swinging doors.
The main entrance of course leads
Into the lobby. The entire lower
floor, lobby, barber shop, lavatories
and so forth, Is floored with white
tile. The ladies drawing room Is
graced with a heavy carpet.
The drawing rooms and lobby are
wainscoted with a tan walnscotlni?.
tinted calsomlned walls and celling
with a beautiful ornamental frelze of
white tinted with gold. The color
scheme of the drawing room and
lobby blend In harmony. The In
direct lighting system is Installed
with Brascollte lighting fixtures.
And listen, ladies. A huge fire
place occupies one corner of the draw-
ng room and Is surmounted by a
(Continued on Tape ElgUt.)
Season's First
Auto Tourists Here
Hundred Shipments
Of Booze in March
high
lw Tncnnhino And Jackson cnuntv I
lumber dealers, amounts to over
1,000,000 board feet, and will be the
largest single order ever placed In
this county for lumber.
The silos, beet sheds, loading sta
tions, etc., all have to be completed
by the 1st of August, so that the
test run on the plant can begin the
latter part of August, so that every
The Studio Ashland is displaying
the three panoramic views of Lithia
Park taken a week ago Sunday by i thng wm De in
Chester Stevenson. The views are SUgar-making September 1
immense and are exceptionally clear.
They show the Immense sweep of the
park from- the entrance and the can
yon. Views showing such crowds as
may be seen In the picture will have
exceptional value when the fact Is
taken into consideration that they
were taken on April 2. Id addition
to the big panoramas a number of
. smaller views of the park and foun
tains are on exhibition. .
THE I.KDX.Uil) PROPERTY.
The man who ran Into Don B.
Smith's fence wtlh- his auto Sunday
afternoon, tearing down about three
rods, should follow tbe golden rule
and either fix it or pay for the dam
Age dona. .''-.':;( ' V -Mi'
Senator Burton
Here Next Monday
The Tiuiiigs has taken an op- ?
tion on'the Leonard property, at
J the entrance to Lithia Park, S
extending from Mill street 8
through to Granite street. It is
our opinion that the city will $
$ need this property in connection $
readiness for the! with its lark development. A
Los Angeles amusement com- s
3 pany stands ready to take the S
property over at $5,000. Un- ?
and the several Ashland dairymen
i who have had their herds tested for 1
tuberculosis were especially com-'
mended for their progresslveness. j
i On the whole the Ashland food sup-!
pliers were placed "away above the
average for cleanliness and progress
ive attention to every detail which
could tend toward raising the stand
ard of their establishments.
Contrary to expectations, the con
sumption of alcoholic liquors and
beer In Ashland during the month of
March amounted to only six gallons
more than during April, Seventy
seven and three-fourths gallons of
liquor was shipped In through tho
express and frolght offices. Of this,
forty-two gallons was beer, eight and
a fourth gallons of wine and twenty-
seven and a hnlf gallons of whiskey,
representing a total of about a hun
dred shipments.
George W. Dafoe of Detroit, Mich.,
is opening a new sawmill at Bandon.
Died.
Mrs. Marie Wise, mother of S. M.
Wise, died In Webster City, Iowa, this
morning. Mrs. Wise visited her son
here three years ago and has many
friends in Ashland.
The first auto campers of the 1916
season to camp In Lithia Park auto
camp arrived in Ashland Friday. The
campers were Mr. and Mrs. B. V.
Nail of Medical Lake, Wash., and
Mr. and Mrs. N. E. Bray of Espanola,
Wash. They have been spending the
winter touring In California and are
on their way home.
The party had no trouble of any
serious naure between San Francisco
and Ashland and report that with tho
exception of one rather bad slide the
road is in good shapo for travel.
They were equipped with complete
camping outfits. They were en
tranced with Ashland park and en
thused over the auto camp, which
they proclaimed the most complete
of its kind which they hud encoun
tered In their travels.
Tho gas plates and the locker
house at the camp are now open for
the season.
Senator Theodore K. Burton of
Ohio, candidate for the republican
nomination for president, whose
name will appear pn tbe Oregon bal
lot, will pass ; through, Ashland n
train 54 at 6:20 p, m. Monday, Apcil
17 i -A number of Ohloans are laying
plans to give the senator a. rousing
reception at the station. . Mr, Burton
will speak in Medford on the even
ing of the, J?tn si::.
S less the city desires to take It i
at that price, and contracts to 1 AUpn & T'ewls n,av ,m'ale a
? dn an hefn.fi Anrll 20. thfi nrnn- S . MlS hou8e Bend. Ore.
$ erty will be taken over and Im- $
3 proved at once. Then It will $$&3$$S$$33S$$$$
not be for sale. Amusement
$ features will be permanently es- $ U RAND.
4 tabllshed there.
5 The Tidings will hold the S
property until April 20, . Hn.
hereby gives the city an option
3 to purchase it at $5,000 on tor S
before April- 26, 1916. 1 i.
" BERT R. GREER, Manager, if
3,160 Hoboes Stop
Here Since Jan. 1
4
$ The Ashland band will prac-
3 tice Tuesday evening of this
t week Instead of tonight because 0
$ of the road show at the Vining. 4
S The boys' banoT will practice 4
Friday this week. ii,,'. V ) i
Owing to the Influx of unemployed
Into the northwest, where the opening
up of the lumber camps and mills Is
furnishing employment for thousands
of men, the local police report a total
of 3,160 ' unemployed and ' hoboos
cared for, at the Ashland "Hobo Ho
tel" during the first three months of
the year. One thousand,' two hun
dred and forty-one passed through
during tbe, past month.
Musical Comedy
At Vining Tonight
Manager Bergner of the Vining'
Bays: ' "Bringing l'p Father is a rol
licking musical comedy which I can
conscientiously recommend to the
theatregoers of Ashland. Reports
which I have received from cities in
California all recommend the show
as a real hit, fully of snappy new
music and irresistible comedy."
The curtain will go up at 8:15 to-,
night upon a stage full of pretty girls
and beautiful scenery, and from cur- .
tain to curtain the show is guaran- :
toed to lack' single dull moment.
There Is a real American plot Inter-
woven with tbe nonsense and music.
The characterizations are said to be
immense. ,!, - ..!? .-. . .: '
.it .1-. .) it . ' i, , ', j v'i;.j , :
1 Phone news' items to tbe Tidings.
