TJie Telegraph service of The
Daily Gate City and Constitu­
tion-Democrat
«?.8ut0
is received ove^
our own leased wire.
VOL. 122. NO. 86.
in inr
Although spurred on by the desire of
heir bringing tfhe chase to a quick
nd and relieving Carranza of danger
a revolt by his generals opposed to
he expedition, the Americans are be
beved to be falling behind in the man
font. Villa obtained fresh mounts in
etl and with his sunerlor knowl
dge of the mountain trails, his chano
of eluding the Americans indefi
nitely is considered good here.
While official Mexican advices
let
.irhnrf WflmlHnn.
filla is Reported Today Making an Effort to
Join Fellow Bandits Who Have 3,000
Armed Followers.
ONLY TWENTY-FOUR HOURS III THE LEAD
iCarranza Officers and Troops are Giving
Every Assistance to American Expedi
tion in the Man Hunt.
By E. T. Conkle,' United Press Staff nled a report that hi a secret proto
Correspondent. col betwen the United "States and the
EL PAHO, Texas, April 10.—'Hang- defacto government, the Washington
pg doggedly to Villa's trail, the United
itates cavalry was today in the deso
^te Sierras around Parral. At least
ipenty-four hours march ahead of his
nemesis," Villa with 200 men and
tesh mount® was at Magistral, a
lining camp in Durango state.
That ViUa is fleeing at top speed to
bin the Arrieta brothers who have
LOOO followers around Durango City
|ras
the information sent to the border
offlcers of the American mining
cinpany at Parral. Villa passed Par
al on Saturday. Magistral is nearly.
about two miles above sea level
fill offer more hardships to the Amerrl
»n pursuers than anything tb#y. have
far encountered.
Officials in El Paso did not take ser-
administration promised not to pursue
Villa after he had fled a fixed dis
tance into Mexico. According to the
story, Villa had already passed that
dead line and the American troops
were automatically to be withdrawn.
Garcia stated the report was
groundless.
Rumors Are Groundless.
COLUMBUS, N. M., April 10.-r
Columbus and the base camp here
breathed easier when dawn came to
day, proving absolutely groundless
venty-flve miles by trails south. The rumors that Cajranzistas were to at
erra De LaCendela range there ris-'tack the town during the night.
Small detaohments of recruits to
the regular army are arriving here
Are Working Blindly.
SAN ANTONIO, Texas, April 10.—
Tentative plans for the removal of
the Columbus, N. M., Base to a point
further south on the border
de~!line
addltional
ArmiAinted
I'illa Is unhurt Hamilton, acquainted
rith the Candela district, declared
nila was safe from capture in those
iid mountains.
Uie
trouble with citizens at Del Rio,
the
8'
tral Jose E. Ines Salazar who issued: killing or a
j~s
proclamation calling on Mexicans to I ^°B*aVe ordered the transfer of the
oin a new revolution of his own. Sal
r"is"an'ti-vilTa" He"
is
have crossed into Mexico near here
Marmist rumors of imminent flane*"*
Ito El Paso Americans from a local •»,„•»
iMexican uprising simultanaous with a energy down tnere.
[mutiny in the Juarez garrison, were| A small body or
[also treated lightly. jsent
I General Gavira of Juarez was re- the negro soldiers, who wiU
[norted considering going to Chihuahua a railroad bridge at that I^int
•City to take active part in the Car-! Imperfect means of communication
lianza plans aealnst Villa. Gen. Peter-j with Pershing is proving to he a ter
linolle Hernandez was mentioned as rifle handicap to General Funston
|Gavira's possible successor.
Carranza Consul Garcia today de-l
I.
[Boap Box for Altar and Con
gregation Was Permitted
to Smoke Pipes.
tBy H. D. Jacobs. United Press Staff
Correspondent..]
WITH THE AMERICAN ARMY IN
MEXICO, Sunday, April 9.—(By wire-.
ColumbB6' N- M- APr11 10p
I with a shallow arroyo
a shallow arroyo as a taber-.
Wnopy and a battered soap box for
50
altar, several hundred khaki-elad,
I Wdlm Urtr h^d. h.™
,,
night in the presence of their God.
"Barbarous Mexico" for miles
•TOM echoed to tho resounding
"Brighten the Corner \\Tiere You! sports" of poker, craps.
Are.
The smug church goers in the
states" might have stood aghast at
Je absence of sectarian niceties in
®e conduct of the service. The four
••jjaiilains were cheered and applaud
as each in turn clambored onto
jae soap box rostrum to preach or
'ead the singing. Cigarettes and
Pipes glowed in the darkness. The
®«Plains met the men In the same
tplrlt- They preceded their sermons
WMMb« latodotN and perwmal
soldiers will be
to Del to
tak® thtm
(Continued on page 2.)
[HOW SOLDIERS GO TO CHURCH
DOWN IN BARBAROUS MEXICO
observations that drew unrestrained
laughter from their hearers. By in
viction of the chaplains the sermons
were interspersed by what Father
Joyce .termed "vaudeville numbers."
These consisted of solos and quartet
el on a or it in
each regiment. The chaplains each
talked straight at his audience omit
ting all that savored of creed, yet
holding raptest attention by his force
ful attention of christian religion.
"—"•'6 and
conErega
tion was attentivi
ravornnt. Service was ended
Service was ended with
of
naclc. the star sprinkled sky for a ®t hordes, far outside the rim of.j
"America" while slinking
Hght yelped a wierd
WITH AM
ob-,
sol^ie"
IS VST
LONDON, April 10.—Three more
British steamers have been sunk
within the last twenty four hours, the
Sllksworth Hall, Glen Almond and
Zafra.
The British steamer Yonne was an
other victim. It was stated that the
Yonne was unarmed and that she was
torpedoed without warning. The crews
of all four vessels reported sunk have
been saved.
The Sllksworth Hall was a 4,777 ton
steamer, 360 feet long, built in 1907
and owned by the Sllksworth Hall
Steamship company of London. The
New information Filed,
been abandoned, It was announced to-• was filed by the prosecuting attorney
day hv General Funston at Fort Sam today. Poisoning of Colonel Thomas Dry Petition Insufficient,
Houston when he declared that the! H. Swope by strychnine and cyanide of DANVlLd-E, 111., April 10.—The
ilare Villa is wounded. James Hami! pershing\q swiftly advancing front! formation, while the former informa- ballot at the city election which will
on, a British refugee frcm Parral, said b„g jh be strengthened by tlon, based on an indictment, charged he held in this city next Tuesday,
today that he had absolute informal
jon from Mexican mining men tnat pniumbns base would be retained, poisons unknown to the jury." that the quesion has not been voted
iTilla
Among the new troops to go south
will be the detachment of the Twenty
fourth infantry (colored) which had
of' communications between' potassium Is changed in the new in-1 "dry" question will not appear on the
troops at once, and that. poisoning by strychnine and "other This is the first time in eight years
A motion to quash probably will be
Sentences are Cut.
umciais in mi raso ma noi unw ~loof nirfit resultine in the! SPRINGFIELD, 111., April 10.—Gov- jnp, that the question be placed on the
lously the reported departure of Gen-!1®*®
bv
sentencea Qf
Che"t.erH
reported tojnegro troops Del Rio to duty^oni -raft0n, Wayne county,
ivo mnsiuui in«n Movirn npar here the line of communications in pooll. Macon county.
ico," said General Funston today.
"We'll let them work off their excess
P®nitl:ntci®r^.to
The New Shoe Breaker.
CHICAGO. April 10.—Sam Wilson,
chorer at the Harrison street police
Cow Breaks Record.
QTJEJVELnAJNO. Ohio, April 10.—By
eleven
ttat will form
the
blac*'jac*
"suieu me corner --ottmsn Thp most common ^,a= ovnncterl at the state de-:*'
kindred pastimes. The most common nlght
vuucuv/
American five, ten and twenty dollar
bills. Eiven Mexican silver in small
denominations is rare. The
take the place of "chips" and cash.
The "banker" has a time of squaring
anb Constttttttan-Semocrak
The Norwegian steamer 8Jolyst was democrats and Senator A. B. Cum
torpedoed and sunk without warning mins for the republicans will get all
by a German submarine off the French
Island Ushant. Her crew was landed
at Cardiff today by the Norwegian
steamer Linda.
PETROGRAD, April 10.—Turkish
official statements, reporting the sink
ink of two Russian transports in the
Black sea, are fabrications, the min
istry of marine announced today.
German submarines, flying the
Turkish flag, have Inflicted only
negllble losses on ships engaged in
daily from cities in alL parta of the transport or supply service, it was
country. The rookies are immediate-: stated. The Russian destroyer Strogi
ly assigned to "awkward squads" and rammed an enemy submarine near
prepared for active service. the spot where the hospital ship Por
tugal was sunk by a torpedo.
KEOKUK, IOWA, MONDAY, APRIL 10, 1916
HANDFUL OF VOTES
IS BEING CAST
Iowa's First Presidential Pref
erence Primary is Held
Todtay, With Little
Interest.
CUMMINS AND
Lloyd registry does not list the Yonne The Only Contest ef Any Sire is That
of Democratic Candidates for
the Position of National
and Glen Almond
The Zafra displaced 3,578 tons and
was 346 feet long. She was built In
1905 and was owned by the English-,
American Shipping company of Lon-|
don.
found 0
Pr°ducii^e m^l^jQj!.\ North^w^tern
month®- J°1,3r
stein cow at the city work a m, S
the world's record for a year by three down an
pounds
ened
[By Robert J. Bender. United Press sel. but perhaps not conclusive enough
Staff Correspondent.] as it stands,
1
reverent Service was enaea wi« WASHINGTON. April 10.—News other vessels torpedoed with-
that
reach New
ork today with affidavits [?is
Tjnited
TOICAuN ARMY IN!
SL Jflh. oh.™.! SuSse, is
1
the Republic. -A touch of mod-i cnange «ma_ dor Gerard offkiai English channel and endangering of I bassador Gerard at Berlin, saying he
ernism was added in Billv Sunday's! lesal tender in the
German disclaimer
of
a8
currency in the army partment some time today.
expected at the state de-
Compilation of such evidence as
in
der way.
The nature of this
?rJh«nTOt a nlftver to evidence in the Sussex case continues proves sufflcientyl strong,
np afterward. It behooves a player to e«a«
win in "even money" or he stands to to be a secret.
lose the fractional parts of a dollar
he acquired in beans over the denomi
nation of the currency In the hand# of
the bsnlBMi
"\X7TT OjOTJ
Committeeman.
The steamer Eastern City has also
been sunk. Lloyd's reported she was
unarmed. DHS MOINES, Iowa, ApTil 10.—De-
The Eastern City displaced 4,341 spite pleasant weather, only a small
tons and was 390 feet long. She was vote is expected to be cast today at
built In 1913 and registered at Bide- Iowa's first presidential preference
ford. primary. Woodrow Wilson for the
their party votes. The progressives
will also select a full delegation to
the Chicago convention. National
•Committeeman John Adams of Du
buque. will be re-chosen without op
position by the republicans, but in thn
democratic camp there is a bitter
fight being made by Ed G. Dunn, of
MaBon City who Is trying to oust Wil
bur W. Marsh of Waterloo, as demo
cratic national committeeman and it
is on this fight that what little inter
est there Is in the election, is cen
tered.
There are no contests among the
republicans and progressives. Candl-j
dates for delegates between progres-1
^ly dMded. In the democratic £outh
camp there is a merry war
tween the "organization" headed by
Nick Reed, United States marshal for
southern Iowa and Dr. J.
W. Reynolds,
of Creston, state chairman.
Both republicans and democrats
will follow the primaries with state
conventions, the republican meeting
at Cedar Rapids about May 10. These
meetings have nothing to do with the
10.—A I conventions, the republicans meeting
KANSAS C3ITY, Mo., April
information charging Dr. B. Clark marles for state offlcers and members
have Hyde "with murder In the first degree of the legislature.
0n
here.
filed within forty-eight hours. This is a result of the decision of
the election commissioners handed
jown
gtate ernor Dunne today commutted the .ballot was declared illegal, it lacking
the following convicts at
2
expir®_
today, in which the petition ask-
6 names of having the required num-
ber of signers. A comparison of
Clyde Gant, St. Clair county Ray ajgnatures with the registry
and Abram
Cecil, Macon county.
The sentences were commutted to
expire prematurely because of the
work the men did on the public roads.
the petition, it is alleged thai
station, has a fortune if his feet. .. ,nor. m„B,
Sam breaks
'hold out. in
.. were not on the registery lists,
police-.
The
men's shoes and doesn't see why ^eiBtated that there had been gross
can't do the same for the whole town
of diplomatic relations. In the cases
he liner St. Paul expected to weeks about which
overnment lnqu
an important part of ™eeJ1 was no violl-
States' evidence in tho f: nnitoi
provlng
,s:8trong
It was described to­
PARIS, April 10.-r-German troops
penetrated French positions to a
depth of more than 500 yards In ad
vanced positions on Hill 295, In a vio
lent assault against Dead Man's Hill
last night, the war office admitted
this afternoon.
All other attacks on this sector
were repulsed, the enemy suffering
heavy losses.
Ttie
WUjwUJM
nor
iection commissioner also
carelessness in getting up the petition.
Followed the Pantalettes.
Germans launched a general
offensive around Verdun yesterday on
I a front of more than twelve miles,
the fighting extending on both banks
of the Meuse. Only In the engage
ment on the slopes of Dead Man's
hill were they successful.
On the east bank of the Meuse, a
violent struggle occurred east of
Vacherauvllle, south of Douaumont.
The French made some progress In
German communicating trenches In
that region.
In the Woevre region and around
the villages of the Meuse hills, heavy
bombardments occurred last night.
.LONDON, April 10.—German losses
to date total 2,730,917, London news
papers figure, by adding the German
official casualty lists. Of these 881,.
437 have been killed.
BETHINCOURT BOOTY.
BiElRLIN, April 10.—Siiesian troops
cut off and captured 714 French pris
oners and fifteen large guns in the
French retreat from Bethincourt, the
war office announced this afternoon.
The enemy nns been cleared from
it Positions north of Avocourt and
Crow8 W00{J |n the8e
tions the Germans took 276 prisoners.
Iowa Supreme Court Decisions.
rSpecial to The Gate City.]
DHS MOINTHS, April 10.—Law vs.
iBryant Asphalt Oo., appellent, Web-
ater county, affirmed. Opinion by
Weaver, judge.
Kile et al vs. Kile, Sac county, af
firmed, Weaver, judge.
Hill vs. Dannen, appellant, M/hshall
county, affirmed. Weaver, judge.
Park vs. Best, opponent Carroll conn,
ty, affirmed and remanded for amend
ment of record. Weaver, Judge.
Pooley vs. Pooley. appellant. Green
county, affirmed. Weaver, judge.
Polk county vs. Oope et al, appel
lants, Polk county, affirmed. Weaver,
jud^e.
Steeper vs. KiHin, et al, appellants,
Crawford district, modified and affirm
ed. Weaver, Judge.
McDowell vs. Hlrott, appellant, Mar
shall county, reversed. Weaver judge.
Cohen et al vs. Hayden, Des Moines
county, affirmed. Gaynor, judge.
JohJison vs. Tyler. Harrison county,
the
reversed.
Gaynor, judge.
list Tidgwell vs. Bouma, Howard county,
showed that were were many names affirmed. Gaynor, judge.
duplicated. Rasmassen vs. Hansen, Audubon
The "dry" faction had claimed that county, reversed. Gaynor. judge.
they had a thousand extra names to Rochester vs. Starland co.. Johnson
the petition. When the commission- county, reversed. Gaynor, judge,
ers made a checking, they declare it matter of the estate of Ann E.
was found it lacked 266 of having wiitttalcer vs. Cotter, administratrix,
enough. A great many names were Pottawattamie county, affirmed. Gay-
ind-ie
AUniiveVsUyTmen'1foUov^i
A'' heating two pairs of pink pantalettes because yesterday he sent a ..2 «ali-(lossea
stree
their wearers back to Chicago.
Action on Submarine Question
Is Delayed for Several Days
lred of Germany,
Farriers Savings hank of Morrison
Jameson, Blackhawk county, re-
versed. Salinger, judge.
Would be Cowboy.
CHICAGO. April 10—Newton Good-!
and fright-jhre bullet into Chief Little Tendehoa.j
vaudeville redskin
((lecIslvc
through unexpected delay in the ar
rival of the liner St. Paul, bringing
desired affidavits, there were two im
portant developments today that will
aid materially in shaping this gov
ernment's attitude.
American lives, an attitude on the expected to send to the state depart-
carried in press dispatches Saturday Germany, deserving of a sharp, ment late today the reply of the
Faced some dlfflculty of
individual cases, there is a
belief in official circles that
to meet this disclaimer is un-, thVpresident may base his action now
upon his own evidence, regardless of
government's the German findings, if that evidence
day, however, by high authority to Two Important Developments,
be strong enough" to convince the: [By Robert J. Bpnder, United Press
nrcsident and Secretary Lansing thatl 8taff Correspondent.]
Oeraaa aobmaxln* attacked tta* WASHINGTON. April aj. -While
men
made
:«i
WASHINGTON, April 10.—Curtail
ment, in a degree, of tho authority
of Secretary of the navy as advocated
by Rear Admiral Bradley FiBke.
among the most radical of the Daniels'
critics, was agreed upon today by a
sub-committee of the house naval com
mittee.
The a«tlon was taken during con
sideration of the navy appropriation
bill. The committee's action proposes
The sub-committee urges that the
position hereafter be held by an officer
a Pershing
IjONDON,
Indian" haier," is repentant today he- offr^e^against Verdun began
acUon Jby^ th_e_ United^ States
The first was an afternoon confer
ence between Secretary Lansing and e«t violence,^but
German Ambassador Von Bernstorff
sted by the latter.
second was a cable from Am-
foreign office to his formal Inquiries
as to whether a German submarine
attacked the Sussex.
Expects Note Today.
WASHINGTON, April 10.—Ambas
sador Gerard cabled the state de
partment today that he expected to
receive a note from the German gov
ernment today replying to the query
as to whether a German submarine
att&ok*d the Sussex.
April
10.—"Without
on
ty
the
Sunday
is
THE WEATHER
Partly cloudy and warmer. Lo­ll•
cal temp—7 p. m. 47' 7 a. m. 42
Critics of Secretary of the Navy Daniels Advo
cate Curtailment in a Degree of His
Supervision of Affairs.
A REAL NAVY
Secretary to Have the Final Say Only in Impor
tant Situations and Not Every Day
of the Week.
a
moment's lull in the fierce fighting
northwest of Verdun, the crown prince
has followed up his advance at Beth
incourt with heavy drives against the
French wings, five miles apart.
The struggle is now becoming more)glo
(urlous than any
.ajX hours have been appalling.
TEN PAGES
REACH
navy. The chief ot operations ft to be
given extensive authority In direction
of the navy and in movements of the
fleets, the secretary to have the final
say in Important situations.
Fifty assistants are retired to be
detailed for the chief of operations
bureau under the agreement reached
by the sub-committee.
It was brought oat at the recent
naval hearings, at which Daniels and
an extension of the authority of the Fiske both testified, that the bureau
chief of operations, the highest office had not always had Its foil quota of
in the department excepting that of assistants. Secretary Daniels said
secretary.
the bureau had been assigned Its full
quota of officers. Fiske insisted only
seven of fifteen had been assigned
of the grade of vice admiral who would and that the other seven in fact per
be outranked by the admiral of the 1 formed other duties.
Ce-operatlon is Real. Iment today. Further satteftujtory
WASHINGTON, April 10.—That the word was that largo quantities of sup
.co-operation of tho defacto govern- plies
are being
is actual, not theoretical, was to private consignees in Mexico ror
evident hy a report from Gener- distribution to the American troops.
who said he had "a very I El Paso reports that Carranra. would
satisfactory conference" with General jack withdrawal ot
Herrera of Chihuahua and that he ex- elicited from Secretary BakerJthe coxn
cected to meet General Gutierrez to-1 ment: don believe Carranza Is
He sent aeroplane messages to communicating with us through. El
day. no ocui. no.u,....
Chihuahua and was answered by an Paso.
offer of full co-operation from Gut- Confirmation at reports that Villa
ierrez sevoroly wounded In tbe kneo
"General Pershing's comment is that came anew from General Pershing to
every ifidication shows the desire of day.
the troops of the defacto government
to aid to the extent of their ability.'
said a war department press state-
NUT CRACKER IS SQUEEZED
TO FLATTEN OUT THE FRENCH
Struggle is Now More Furious
Than at Any Time Dur
ing the "War.
shipped from El Paso
He confirmed, too, press reports
that one aeroplane was badly disabled
April six. The other machines ara
performing valuable service, he said.
battle in the history of the world en
tered its fiftieth day today with the
crown prince driving home mighty
blows and the fighting becoming more
furious than since the early days ol
the campaign against Verdun.
On an arc-like front, the Germans
are throwing more than 160,000 men
into action, pounding simultaneously
against the northwestern and north
eastern gates to the French fortress.
The French war office this after
noon, in admitting the loss of five
hundred yards of trenches on Dead
Man's hill, emphasized that the strug-
has en
...rious than any waged on the westj After squeezing the French out ol
waged on the west
win, 13 year old would^be cowboy and bnnk of the Meuse since the German Bethincourt salient, the crown
tions. The French rallied and drove Brandenburgers' attack in the early
the enemy out in a dashing counter days of the fighting, the Germans
c.liarpe. I have been unable to make anothei
The left jaw thrust against thelbreaoh in the French fortress line.
French line between Dead Man's Hill It is estimated that the losses on
and Oumleres village with the great- both sides have totaled well above
was driven back! 200,HK, far more than were engaged
with heavy losses. Emerging from on both sides in the battle of Water
the protection of Cumieres wood. the|loo.
Germans
were caught under a wither-j The Berlin official statement this
ing fire and halted before they afternoon, recounting German sue*
reached
French trenches. cess on both banks of the Meuse d®
The battle spread to the whole fiveiclared that about 1.200 French pris
mile line
tered a new phase.
Thernce"roshed'up
both sides in the past thir-|a
m0
The Germans are attempting to,Meuse_
duplicate their victory at Bethincourt since the Germans launched ths
on a larger ecale. Using the famous campaign against Verdun with an
"nut cracker" tactics that squeezed
the French out of Bethincourt, the
crown prince has planned to crush
the five mile French front and force
the evacuation of all the strong outer
fortifications of Verdun on the north
west.
The right jaw of the German "nut
|cracker" burst in upon the French
line northeast of Avocourt wood with
lot conclusive eiiousn ucum, nnwerful assault that carried thei surrounding the city of Verdun. Since
to warrant the breaking in the Sussex ease,has been held up ^^s"^ advanced French po«i-j Fort Doulumont fell
artinery
afternoon, but a lull I oners have been taken in the pasl
believed to be impending. The Ger- twenty-four hours. Siiesian troops
mans must pause, it is believed here, cut off and captured 714 French
while they
redistribute
their infantry troops as the French retreated from
and artillery for a violent campaign! Bethincourt. In clearing the French
to squeeze "the French out of Dead I out of positions north of Avocourl
Man's Hill, Hill 304, and adjoining wood and south of Crows wood, west
ridges. of the Meuse. 276 more prisoners
Greatest Battle In World. were taken. Bast of the Meuse a
[By Ed L». Keen. United Press Staff, ravine south of Pepper Heights waj
Correspondent.] cleared of the French, and 188 pri»
liONDOW. April 10.—The greatest* onera ta&en.
':a
5Pf'
I
Mi
fresh troops without
ment"3 delay and ordered a gen-
eral
assault on both banks of tho
attack on the night of Feb-
ruary 21, they have rolled up the
French lines on both banks of the
Meuse, capturing 150 square miles ol
territory and nearly thirty French
villages.
Despite these successes the most
terrific artillery blattering the world
has ever known has won for the
crown prince but one of the forts
before the
A
