SE BARRE DAILY TIMES
n
VOL. XX NO. 22.
HAUHE, VERMONT, MONDAY, APRIL 10, 1910.
PRICK, ONE CENT.
nrr
i
VERDUN
FRONT
BENT
French Line, Straightened by
Evacuation of Bethincourt
Salient, Was Thrust Back
Over a Distance of 500
Yards in a Tremendous
Charge
EXPLAINS FRENCH "TREACHERY."
OPERATION COVERED
A 13-MILE FRONT
Germans Say Prisoneis Took Up Arms
Again and Attacked.
Ilerlin, April 10, by wireless to Say
villa. An explanation of a clause in Sat
urday' German official statement re
garding the rapture of Termilen liill on
ilie Verdun front, ly tlie Germans, in
which it was said that the losses of tlie
French were very heavy, "lyviug partly
to the treacherous behavior 'of some1," ia
8iiplied by the Overscan New agency in
an item given out for publication, which
savs: i
"It is reported from tlie front that the
storming of Termilen hill is considered
to have been a classical example of per
fect co-operation between the infantry
and the artillery. Therefore the Ger
man hisses were exceedingly small while
the French met with losses which were
appalling.
"The French losses were further in
creased because French troops who bad
been overrun by the German infantry
in its storm attack and who had dis
posed of t heir arms and raised their hamW
in token of surrender afterwards took up
their arms again and attacked the Ger
mans from behind. These treacherous
troops were all kilenS in combat by em
bittered lierman soldiers.
ENCOURAGING
REPORT SENT
BY PERSHING
He Had a Very Satisfactory
Conference with General
Herrera and Expected to
Meet General Gutierrez
To-day to Discuss Mexican
Situation
Fight for Possession of Dead
Man's Hill Was Redoubled
After French Evacuated
Bethincourt Salient Satur
day Night The Germans
Gain East of Meuse
ANOTHER ATTEMPT
TO FREE BRITISH
Faris, April 10. The Germans contin
ued their attacks last night in the Ver
dun region east and west of the Meuse
over a front thirteen miles long from
Hill No. 304 to Fort Douiiumont. The
war olliee announcement this afternoon
says: "In the lighting west of the river
for possession of Dead Man's Hill the
Germans were repulsed except on a front
ot 5D0 yards near Hill 29.). hast of tlie
river the German assault gained no ap
preciable results.
Bethincourt Salient Evacuated by
French.
The French evacuated the Bethincourt
salient Saturday night and the Germans
on Sunday attacked with great violence
their new line from Avocourt to Cum
icres but were repulsed with sanguinary
losses. At one point, northeast of Avo
court, the Germans succeeded in entering
the trench trenches and from this posi
tion they were immediately ejected
through a counter-attack, according to
the French official .communication issued
last night. The communication said:
"In the Argonne our artillery concen
trated its hie on the enemy s coiniminiea
lions. Our heavy batteries during these
operations shelled a sector in the neigh
borhood where important troop gather
ings and columns on the march were ob
served in the region of Montfaueon and
Xnntillois. Xear Hill 283 we exploded a
mine which crumbled the enemy strength
for a considerable length and destroyed a
small post,
"To tlie west of the Meuse a violent
battle which lasted the entire day was
engaged on the whole of the front from
Avocourt to Cumicrea and even spread
to the eastern bank of the river.
"The premature evacuation of the
Hethinemirt salient which was carried
out last night has enabled us to es
tablish a continuous line, beginning t
the Avocourt corner and running along
the first woody slopes to the west of
Hill 304, then along the southern bank
of the Forges brook to the northeast of
Haueourt, and reaching our positions a I
little to the south of the crossing of the
roads of Hctliineouit-Esnes and Bethin-court-Chattancourt.
"The whole line was violently attack
ed by the enemy, but withstood the fierc
est onslaught. .
'On the front of Le Mort Homme
Cumieres the German attack met with
a sanguinary setback. The attacking
columns which delKmched in close for
mation from the Cumieres wood were
caught under the lire of our mitraille
uses and artillery and dispersed, leaving
liehind hundreds of bodies on the ground.
''.All attempts against Le Mort Ilomuie
were also repulsed with heavy losses.
"A simultaneous offensive movement
against our positions between the Avo
court wood and the Forges brook met
with fierce resistance on the part of our
troops which everywhere repulsed the en
emy. Finally, the enemy through an at
tack against one of our works to the
northeast of Avocourt at the southern
outskirts of the wood succeeded momen
tarily in gaining a foothold in our
trenches, but were thrown out at once
through a counter stack.
"To the east of the Meuse the ene
my artillery was very active against our
organizations at the Cot l)u l'oivre ami
Statement in London Says That Next
Attack Will Be Delivered at San
nayyat, on the Tigris.
London, April 10. Preparations are
well under way for the next British at
tack in an attempt to relieve the army
surrounded by lurks at hut-hl-Amara
Mesopotamia. This attack is to be
made, according to the British plans,
against bannavjat, on the ligris, ta.
short distance above Felahie, which was
recently won from the Turks. Improved
weather ami a cessation ot the rise in
the Tigris are reported to be making con
ditions more favorable for the continu
ance of operations.
BREAK IS EXPECTED.
In the Austro-Hungarian Cabinet, is Re
port in London.
London, April 10. A dispatch to the
Morning I'ot from Budapest, says:
Count Tisa. the Hungarian premier.
and Baron Burian, the Austrian foreign
minister, are expected to resign. The
Tisa government is expected to fall ow
ing to the opposition of Austria-Hungary
and Turkey to the promised German plan
of establishing a customs union and eco
nomic federation between the central
powers and their allies.
"According to reports in Budapest.
lount lisza has already been summoned
to the royal palace and informed bluntly
by Kmpcror Francis Joseph that he would
be dropped unless he consented to tlie
scheme for a customs union. It is said
that Count Tisza stubbornly refused to
budge, and it is expected that when the
ministry falls he will take up the lead
ership of the opposition to any ministry
supporting the customs union project."
LATTER PROMISED
TO RENDER AID
Pershing's Report Also Con
firms the Report That
Villa Was Wounded Se
verely in the Right Knee
Secretary Baker Gives Out
Statement
GERMANY'S NOTE
TO BE RECEIVED
BY GERARD
Statement Dealing with the Sussex Case
Expected To Be Delivered at Once
Von Bernstorff Made Date
with Lansing.
Washington. 1). C, April 10. Secre
tary of State Iansing announced to-day
that Ambassador Gerard had cabled that
the German foreign ofliee informed him
it would lmnd him a note on the Sussex
case probably to-day. Count Von Bern
storff, the German ambassador, will con
fer with Secretary lousing this after
noon. J lie ambassador made the ap
pointment.
A preliminary statement handed to
Ambassador Gerard bv the Berlin foreign
office is understood to be on the way here
bv cable.
Washington. D. C April 10. Over
night dispatches from Funston to the
war department, made public to-day by
Secretary Baker, were summarized in tne
following statement:
The latest dispatch from Pershing,
dated April , explain the inlreo,uency
of communication bv saving that the
wireless wua not able to work and aero
plane communication was difficult be
cause of the lack of suitable landing
j places. The dispatch again confirmed
me parry report, mat ilia was severely
wounded in the riglrt knee. Pershing re
ports he lias had a very satisfactory con
ference with General Herrera and ex
pects to-day to meet General Gutierrez,
to whom he sent messages by aeroplane
to Chihuahua and received replied offer
ing full co-operation. PeMungs com
ment is that everv indication shows a
desire bv the troops of the de facto
government to aid to the extent of their
ability.
the American punitive expedition the use
of Mexican telegraph and telephone lines
according to General Pershing's report to
General Funston yesterday. the offer
was made to the aviators who landed in
Chihuahua last week.
General Pershing's report did not pass
over the telegraph lines, however, but
was transmitted via aeroplane and wire
less routes to Columbus. The report was
sent from some part of the field of oper
ations, the locality bf which was with'
held here.
The drivers of the aeroplanes that vis.
ited Chihuahua sail! they had been treat'
ed courteously bv General Guitercz, the
commanding officer at Chihuahua, after
it was demonstrated that they had come
on a tnendiy mission, aitiiougn. ueiore
that fact was determined by the alarmed
public a few stones had been thrown at
them and a shot or two fired. No one
was injured.
General Pershing said some supplies
had been purchased at Chihuahua and
that there appeared no disposition on the
part of those with stores to withhold
their goods, but that the limited amount
of supplies at Chihuahua at present made
it almost impossible to get provisions.
MORE TROOPS FOR EL PASO.
Two Infantry Battalions Were Sent from
Fort Bliss.
El Paso, Tex., April 10. Local olfl
ciaJs in F.l l'aso made representations
yesterday to the military authorities and
two infantry battalions were sent from
Fort Bliss last night to act as reserves
to the patrols who are on guard every
night in the principal streets here. The
police officials said they fear trouble with
Mexicans in Juarez.
Tlie one real basis for any opprehen
sion here that is discoverable is the fact
that a number of Villistas and other
representatives of the anti-American fac
tion in Mexico are spreading the wildest
reports among'the peons and soldiers m
Juarez in the hope ot causing an out
break. Juarez is seethinc with the weird
est stories of the hostile intentions ot
the Americans and rumors of great vic
tories over the I'nited States soldi! rs
won by Villa. The Carranza officials
are doing their best to suppress these
stories.
That the alarmists are not receivin:
much credence among the American ret
ogees here is evidenced by the fact that
number of fne latter have already re
turned to Mexico and others are prepar
ing to do so.
TEUTON "SUBS"i
DESTROY FOUR
PASTOR'S RETIRING WORD
DEATH DUE
Tfi rvnnpi mr
IV LArUOUIXL
Was to Hedding Congregation to Give
Loyal Support.
"Tlie Backward and the Forward Look"
was tho topic of the farewell sermon
prenched in the Hedding Methodist
church SuikIhv morning by Rev. E. F.
Newell, who exneets to lie transferred
Three of the British Vessels MoT or II X, K S Grace Laskey'' V ody Wa3
to the decision of the bishop. His suc
cessor in the Barre pastorate, Rev. B. G.
Lipsky of Gorham, Me., is expected to
arrive in the city Thursday. A large
congregation assembled yesterday to hear
the retiring pastor in his valedictory
message.
Kev. Mr. Newell took his text from
F.xodus, 3,'id chapter, 4th verse, "And
He said, My presence shall go with thee
and I will give thee rest. A briet in
troduction was eiven. comparing the
presence of God with Mosea in his lead-
Known to Have Been
Unarmed
THREE MEN MISSING
FROM ONE VESSEL
ound r ' .oulton,
Me ouse
-
v
v.Os
POLICE SEARCHED
FOR MALE COMPANION
German Submarine Activity
Is Continued with
Effectiveness
ing of the children of Israel to the Prom" Mediffll tfYflminPr'c TConm-F
isod presence with his people to-day. Pleuu-dl examiner S itepOl Xi
Did Away with Foul ,
Play Theory
VILLA IS HEADED
FOR DURANGO CITY
He is Said to Be Accompanied By 200
Men and He Has a Full Day's
Start of His Pursuers.
El Paso. Tex., April 10. In his flight
from the American cavalrv, Villa is be
lieved to-day to have passed Parral and
with his band, said to number over 200
men, is reported to he heading tor
Durango fit v. Mexican reports state
that Villa has a full day's start of his
pursuers.
If be succeeds in reaching Tmrang
City, he probably will be joined bv the
forces of the Arrieta brothers, who com
mand more than 1,000 men.
BRAZILIAN STEAMER DISABLED.
The Guajara Is Being Towed Into Ameri
can Port.
RISE OF GASOLINE
REPORTED ON
NO CONFIRMATION
OF "DEAD LINE"
IN MEXICO
But Federal Commission Did Not Draw
Any Conclusion in Preliminary
Report Submitted to
Congress.
Washington, I). ('.. April 10. The fed
eral trade commission to-day presented
to Congress a preliminary report on its
investigation of the rise in the price of
gasolene. The report carries with it
a mass of statistics on production and
prices, but draws no conclusion as to
the cause of the increased price.
Both Secretaries Lansing and Baker Re
fused to Make Statement Regard
ing Rumored Agreement.
Washington, D. C, April 10. Secre
taries Lansing and Baker both declined
to comment to-day on the border reports
that an agreement between Washington
and the Carranza government had fixed a
dead line, beyond which the American
troops would not go in pursuit of tho
V ilia bandits.
RIOT ON BORDER.
One American
THREE FEARFUL LEAPS.
Woman Is Dying from Wounds Received
in Last.
Providence, R. I., April 10. In the
Rhode Island hospital Miws Zona Macin
linska, 3", a native of Austria, is dying
from injuries she received early yester
day when she jumped from three third-
story windows in the north end of this
Soldier Killed
Ranger.
by Texas
Del Rio, Tex., April 10. Private John
Wade of C company, 24th infantry, a
negro regiment, was killed here late Sat
tirdav night, when two rangers and Slier
iff Almont attempted to arrest ltf negro
soldiers who had created a disturbance
in a house in the restricted district.
in tlie region of Dotisuinont-Yaux as Weil I city and from the effects of exposure
as on the w h'de of our second line. Kept
in check bv our curtain of lire tne in
l'autry attackers were unable to debouch.
"In the Woevre there has Ix-en an in
termittent bombardment."
AUSTRIA PREPARES
HEAVY ATTACK
ON ITALIANS
Said to Be Removing Troops from Ru
mania Border and Sending Quantities
of Munitions from the In
terior Empire.
Rome, via. Psris, April 10 The Aus
Iri.ins are preparing for an offensive cn
a Urge wale along the whole Italian
front, according to diitcbe received
!ere. which state that this action was
dM idej on at a nwnt conference be
'.meen Archduke Eugene and tlie other
Austrian commander. Strong bodies of
troops bate been withdrawn from the
fiumsna tw rdT and quantities of muni
tion are being writ frm the inter n-r
I'niire.
1 he Ita'ian military chiefs, the d.-pit-lei
tar, fcsre rraje (II preparation
l break the -fTen.e ami f. -r-e t:.e Au-'
triors back on the d'-fetfive.
which she suffered in walkinc barefoot
and Insufficiently clothed through the
snow-covered streets.
The motive of the woman's act is not
known. She sustained a fracture of the
kull in the lat of the three jumps and
has been unconscious most of the time
since. The police sav that they have
found that she was an inn-ate of a state
hospital in 1!11 and that later she was
deported.
5
STRIKE AT LAWRENCE.
Mill Employes Left Their Work
To-day.
Lawrence. Mass., April 10. Two hun
Ired employe in the finiehinc depart
ment of the Arlington mills and t mule
spinners at the Panne mills stru k to
day, a-king increased wsgvs. The I'aiifio
mills manufacture cotton good and the
Arlinj.-t.rn both rfcd and cotton.
TOLEDO STRIKE ENDED.
Men Given Three Cents More aa Hour;
May Not Wear Union Buttocr.
Toledo. O, April 7 he Toledo Mr-rt
car strike was endej lat ficM. The men
ere gieti an incree in ae .f three
rert .in bur. but ther iil r. -t t- r.T-
Klted t wear iimn bi:ttn and tir
j- a fU'j tle ill prevail.
Three negroes are said to have at
tacked the officers while the latter were
taking them to jail. Wade jumped on
Hanger Barler, pressed him to the ground
and clubbed him on the head with the
butt of his revolver. Barler drew his
pistol and fired over his shoulder. Wade
was killed.
Protects against the presence of the
negro soldiers and requests for their re
moval were being prepared yesterday to
be sent to the war department.
A portion of the 24th infantry has
been stationed here for three weeks.
A coroner's jury last night returned a
verdict that Wade was killed by Ranger
Barler, who was acting in self-defense
and in the discharge of his duties.
Testimony was given at the inquest to
the effect that the negroes, after being
refused admittance to a house m the re
stricted district, returned later, armed.
and raided the place, shooting out all the
window s.
Several soldiers escaped when the offi
cers arrived and ran in another direction,
according to the slieriff. lie said a group
of these encountered a Mexican deputy
sheriff and ordered him to hold up his
hand while one took away his pistol.
-Shall we kill him!" one was quutd as
aying.
"No. was the reported replv: "we're
onlv after tbw white folks."
The soldier were taken hack to the
amp after the e iode. where they were
held under guard pending an investiga
tion. It said to-day that all the 11
soldier were private.
Norfolk, Va.. April 10. The Brazilian
steamer IJuHiara. with rmssenger and
freight from Kio for New York is be
lieved to be nearing Cape Henry in tow
or tho I nited rruit steamer Mxaoia,
which went to her assistance early yes
terday off Cape Hatteras. The Uuaiara
was reported to be badlv disabled but
the cause was jiot reported.
tuilv one meager w ireles message wa
received from the Sixaola yesterday and
this reported that she had the (Juajara
in tow 301 miles south of Scotland light
and expected to take off her passengers
as soon as the sea moderated. I he mes
sage, though it did not say definitely,
indicated that the (.Juajara had been in
collision with some vessel.
The coast guard cutter Onondaga,
w hich had been cruising off the Virginia
capes, started for the crippled steamer
early yesterday. Wireless stations along
the coast had not Wen able to establish
communication with her late last night.
Neither were they able to get into touch
again with the (Juajara and her convoy. I
From a private wireless message sent
by one of the Sixaola's passengers it ap
pears that the (iuajara summoned help
by the use of her steam whistle, signal
ling in the Morse code that she had 14
feet of water in her hold.
Then followed an exposition of the text
with tho several points well illustrated
1 he sermon Is given in part as follows
tods presence is everywhere, in the
simplest form of nature es m the more
marvelous combinations. But there Is a
......... : . i c r .. .1 i 1 ..
molt- rturcuii niescnce u uui miow 11 oinv I yrr . .. - - .
London. April lO.-The sinking of four to His churcV This was the nresene'e ". M, April 10.-1 he death ot
more British steamships was reported felt by the children of Israel when there Grace Laskey, aged 18, whose body wa
to-day. At least three of them were un- " - , 1'". Fl ? , " .t. 1 OU 6 .ve8teraar w
armed Llovd'a announced the sinkim? 2 . uuu lo exposure, me meuical examinee
armeu. i.iojqs annoumea me sinning ,owRrd their Canaan. In after ages I, ... . , , . ,
of the Zafra. the Glenalmond and the God's nresence was with His church at d,n(,0(I to day- An autoIy was per-
Silksworth hall. A Renter rfisnatch from Jerusalem and later with the early apos- formed m view of the suggestion of pos-
io u is now ana ever win ue. tuiiBiuie violence. ji me same lime a scared
wag instituted for a man who was said
ties.
Moll. ,.!! f l. ..... r !. V, lies, no n in
....... .... ....v...k .... oo., tjmB ghg, no , r reokonp(1 Thj
formerly named the Kastalia. 1 hrce presence is beat known by the close fol-
men are mising from the bilksworta I lowers ot Jinn and is recognized, by what
Hall. The crews of the other vessels ean accomplish lor men
. "The puriiose of this power of God's
were saved. I :.. v ,.; :.. j
'i T-n,-inv- ia lo or. ...... n iiii'iului n.o
guide. The greatest of men from Moses
to Lave been seen with her at a lat
hour on Saturday night.
SUICIDE BY HANGING.
The latest available report announced down to the great men of to-day have
the Zafra as having touched at Newport been those who have yielded to this pow-
1 I i ...:n ..i.:
News on March II, en route from Puerto
Padre, Cuba, for Queenstown. The Silks-
worth Hall was last reported at Gibral
tar on March tl, en route to Hull. The
Glnalmond arrived in Lisbon March 13
from Rangoon, Burma. The Yonnc
was last reported leaving Glasgow on
March 9 for Hampton Roads.
er and God will continue guiding every
trusting soiil through the difficult path
ays of life till the perfect Canaan of
heaven is reached
"God never fails in His promises. 'And
I will give thee rest.' N'ot only a quiet
settlement after the wars in the Canaan
land were over, but this promise meant
Joseph William Seavey, Aged 81, Neat
Rye, N. H.
Eye, X. II., April 10.-Joseph William
Seavey, aged 81, committed suicide yes
terday at his home near Langs Cor
ner, by hanging. His wife died last sum
mer and since that time he was sub-
Other Ships Sunk.
Lloyd's announced yesterday the de
struction of the British steamers Adam-
ton, 2,304 tons, and Avon, 070 tons. Xo
details are given.
The Danish steamer Asger Kyg has
' meant 1( f l..annn,tor,f ov.lla
peneci rest,, irsnouiiiiv or mum ana kwh i,f,o i. ! 4t, 1
e m ll kJ'"" J lvivi "WWII JIU IC1 LiHT JlWtlflU
aMil luwtitiBii nt a aline rtf narrtnn ft-nm 1 . . "
sin, of deliverance from sinning in this life . , !i i i
i j. i it their home with hnn. A search wa
the setting, of the sun! Prayer brought "m,, f,nd wa? fl)"nd PIe.J
this promised blessing. The prayer of !,rofm the hayloft in the barn. Medical.
.M""'. ! ii iiuiib nic an irnut c vi itu vt wn i , , ,
nnn! P, l,ou v.rl,f fr, l,Qvn ,ew l" ""ov. .w. seavey was one ot
blessings of every kind; prayer has de-
the best known farmers of Rye and va
ehtt,A anuth ..f tho ieln of Wiullt KonioA sin nthhiut hell on,l nonnloH hoov. a melttDCr 01 USgOOd lodge, 1. U. U. X
in a badly damaged condition. It is sup- en with saints; prayer has furnished the p' -Portsmouth.
posed that she has been torpedoed. She presence of (rod to men and has led them
is a steamer of 1,101 tons, built m IJW2, on to noiy tilings, to noble, (Jod-like llv-
and owned in Copenhagen. ng, to sainthood linked with the glory
.4 .I.,....nK ft-nm Malta ,.ctrHu aaiH OI HniTeiS!
that one engineer and eieht Lascars of "-Moses WT!S n great leader, but it WM " 'Pa"on "y uussi
the crew of the steamship Chantala were not for him to reap the results of his About Herself.
killed when the vessel was sunn oy a "-;-"'" 7 ".' Worcester. Mass.. Anril 10 Lockin-
WOMAN HACKED THROAT.
submarine. Ninety-two survivors were
! another, but before he left his task this
li- :.. i. . .r , .
eVcued and landed here. They d.-la re souled hero poured out his heart in - " 7 "
they had no warning of the impending ZJZ ?!? 1. of 7011 li.led e tifb'wk
of
attack.
The sinking of the Chantala. a vessel
4.004 tons gross, which sailed from
London March 10 for Calcutta, was re
ported Saturday.
The Hritish steamship Kastern City oi
4300 tons is reported sunk. According
to information at Lloyd's the vessel wa
unarmed.
DR. WAITE'S PLEA
IS NOT GUILTY
OF MURDER
However, His Counsel Reserved the Right
to Change the Plea of the Self -Confessed
Slayer of His Father-in-Law.
TAKES RUTLAND POSITION.
As
Edward S. Abbott, Who Resigned
Montpeiier Principal.
Kutland, April 10. Edward S. Abbott,
who has been principal of Montpeiier
high school since lt09, when he graduated
from the University of Vermont, has
been elected principal of Rutland high
school to succeed Isaac Thomas. Mr.
Thomas has not vet announced his plans
for next fall when Mr. Abbott takes up
his new duties. Principal Thomas has
been here for seven years, having for a
ng time previous to that been at tin
head of Burlington high school. He is a
graduate of Yale university. He suc
ceeded here Samuel H. Erskine, who is
now superintendent of the Rochester dis
trict.
Xew York, April 10. Dr. Arthur War
ren Waite, who has confessed to poison
ing his father-in-law, John L. Peck, a
millionaire drug manufacturer of Grand
Rapids, Mich., entered through his coun
sel to-day a plea of not guilty when ar
raigned on an indictment charging mur
der in the first degree. His counsel, how
ever, reserved the right to change the
plea within 10 days.
Dr. Waite was examined at Hellevue
hospital yesterday by three alienists
who were designated by District Attor
nev Swann.
CHILD'S LIFE ENDANGERED.
Found Some Pills in Waste Basket and
Swallowed Them.
St. Albans, April 10. The ten-month-
old son of Mr. and Mrs. R. II. Ijirry nar
row ly escaped death Saturday when he
ate some tablets which he found in a
waste paiier basket. Ikctors E. A. Hyatt
and John Gibson worked over the child
several hours before he was out of dan
ger. The baby was creeping on the floor
the office of the rark lew lioiiac.
where the family live, and nulled the
basket over and in rummaging among
the papers found some tablets, for use in
rase of odds. The tabids affected the
heart severely. Hie condition of the child
is improving.
FOUND IN ST. J0HNSBURY.
Woman for Whom Search Had Been
Made Two Days.
St. Johnsburv. April 10. Officers late
Saturday night found Mrs. Fred Hill, the
St. Johnsburv tenter woman who haa
been missing since Thursday and whose
relatives feared that she had eome to
harm. She was found in St. Johnsburv,
suffering from a complete nervous break
down. The woman is being cared for.
NO; NOT A WORD.
ENGINE WENT DOWN BANK.
Cars Bobbed Along Ties and 16 People
Were Hurt
Walerburv, Conn.. April 10. Sixteen
persons were injured, none seriously.
Roosevelt Wouldn't Talk Politics While
in Boston.
Boston. April 10. Former President
Roosevelt, who came here yesterday to
attend a meeting at Harvard university.
of which ire is an overseer, gave out a
brief statement last night, declaring that
his visit fcad no connection with politics.
"I will not say one word about polities
while I am in Boston," said Col. R.ose
velt, "nor see a single man actively in
terested in politics. My visit is only to
see my sons, and go to the Hunard
overseers meeting."
new leader who was to take, his place.
Few, very few, have been spiritual lead
ers like unto Moses and Joshua in abil
ity, in character, in obedience to God and
in the splendid results achieved. The
lesson, however, that we wish to draw
to-day is that there is a similarity in
this respect, that churches change their
pastors at times and we believe it is
often for the best good of all concerned.
Xo one man sees all accomplished that
he desires to see in any church that he
works and prays for; no one man can
satisfy all the people. Even a Moses
failed to do that with all, for there were
those who ever continued to criticise and
to murmur. If a pastor is what he ought
to be he is glad to see some Joshua suc
ceed him who may lead on the people to
a Canaan of success. Hut to do this
there is need not only for a chosen Josh
ua, but the people must be united in
their work under him. they must have
faith in their leader and be ready to fol
low him; and, most important of all,
they mnst be willing to obey ( Jod. Many
a mediocre ninn in the pulpit has met
with marked success because hi congre
gation has helped to lift the church on
to success. j
"Did vou ever think that you can help
to make vour preacher whatever you
please 7 It vou discourage rum by lack
of interest, if vou fail to do vour part
if you are not loyal to the church, your
preacher may have a pessimistic note in
what he savs; if. however, vou stand
with him and help him on in every pos
sible way, he will be encouraged to give
you of his tiest. Stand by him, then
not only financially, but with vour pray
ers and with your talents, striking hands
together as vou follow the cross of
Christ.
"We close by commending von to God,
whose presence, if you will but do His
holy bidding, will go with vou and that
to bless. It was so with Moses, when, in
the plains of Midian. God spoke to him
in the burning buh; it was so with
Moses, when he stood liefore Pharaoh
and God honored his work in miraculous
ways; it was so when the soul of Mosea
went up from Pisgah's summit to meet
his God; it was so, too. when Joshua
came to take the leadership; so it has
ever been if those who profess the name
of Christ will, for the love of Him and in
His name, do His holy will. His presence
goes with them and that to bless. It
h.is Wen so in the past and so it ever
will lie in this church, with its record of
over 120 years of service, with a noble
line of ministers and so manv godly men
and women in the pew. If all will strive
to do their part, a still greater future
awaits you.
My prayer for vii and vour new
leader is that God mav richly bles vou
and by His holy presence make you a
mighty power for good in this community."
water and then committed suicide by
hacking her throat, left hand and wrist
and left knee with a potato paring knife.
According to Police Surgeon Loins K.
Cassels, who was called to the Wahl
strom home, the suicide was one of the
most pitiable in Worcester in a long
time.
Relatives of the woman are alleged tj
have told the police that she had been .
brooding for some time over gossip aboub
herself which she is said to have over
heard in her place of employment. She
was melancholy early yesterday, and
while members were in another part of
the house she slipped into the bathroom
and put an end to her life.
DISAPPOINTMENT AT QUINCY
Held Up
Because
EAST M0NTPELIER.
The regular grange meeting last
Wednesday evening opened in form, and
then went into open session for the pur-
Hse of bringing together the new county
GIVEN USE OF TELEGRAPH.
.it. i , . . 1 agricultural agent, r
- ,- , . ..1. f Ihl, K A. , 1 1 Ml 11. .it.
rnrer irain inim inie to -cw II-1. "
ven 'H ine ew lork. .t Haven and
Hartford railroad was derailed at Jeri
cho aiding, six m.les north of W'at. rbiiry,
jesierday. The accident was caused,
accord, ng to the railroad's statement, bv
a half thrown witi-h on a curie.
The en(-;n-r saw the tw it. a half op n
n.I apul.cl the airbrakes, but :t wis t- j lnJ: the attention of the farmer
wte. ihr en?me onmpe oer the rai.j,hc meeting. r(rr!.ments
1r about 4 teet and then t"pp!cd d n j ,t, ;i the -fitin
i;j?!t rmb.nkmtit. fol!..ed bv tbc
FUNERAL OF ACCIDENT VICTIM.
That of William Stephens Was Held Sat
urday Afternoon.
(ountnmen of William Stephens.
H. Abbott, and the hose death at the Citv h.-piul on
Mr. Abbott was Vednelav followed injuries which be
mnamofl tn fliia r.la.'A Ii t- V" ( I If,..- I 1 ' . U n .'.lf,lt r.,.l, . .
i. i . i i n f r... I.. . . . ; .I-...-' ...v. 1 1 Ihe Mrrar restaurant at 3'i .Ma a
lington. supervisor of countv agent, for i numlN-r at the Perry A Xoonan mnr- tr. t. M. T.tIicr. l.a. b,n dd hy aid .
the state. All three men spoke and their tuatv chapel on IVp-d' so.ure Saturday !arn,r ' lU"',U ' 1 Ia,rk n U'TH,r
remarks w.re likened to attentively, aft.rnoon at 2 oM.-k to attend the fu- - r"rr"- b',h of M"tpelier. who t-..
Onlv about .KI pc.plc attended the meet- neral sorices. Included among the- --e-Mon this morning. 1 lie new pi
nig'b,aue of the bad traveling and be- who came tether w.re mender, of C e J rnetors are well known in Montpeiier.
caii- in this set. on mrring mas claim-!.iemurie club, with whi.h the de.-ed Mr- ' ,ark b,r,n encij.d in tit-
After;a brg affJuW. There weie x ct j M"K ousness ana mt. i lerce neun
of .iii-.tr on fine f orsl tnUnt . V.-r. IWrt J. U h g!,. j ' "'!! d in ir.e rMurm i..r five years
were sen ed : tn-tor of the Firt lpti-t rhur.h. , j f ing his graduatH.ii from Mnr.tpc le r
and the new w;irk t-i be done in Y ii- ' the cf!i iatinsr b-rf man aixl tW hearer new f rpriet-r fl.-il
ingtoo "irty started off wit), ei.thil-i mere: John lanv!! J..l.n Itrown. So u, m I I e charge. in Inline the sub-t til'., n
,'m. When the traveling is immed Jiwrtsr-1. John .anld, .lm M..rt :rer jof marbie hunters and t'M- for prewnt
and prir.g work is n4 so prir.g. it i ' and HiUra M.H?d A Isrgi. ,! . m-lrn cuntcr and m rrfdcn topj. J t,i
prolwibie anotier ineetirf mi!i t- b.ll'tion of tr'ends -fiit-.I I1 r m n tn'!-'- The retaurar.t h been in
hcTT. tint more may t.nK a--j".aint-4 Ibf-e -n:etrv, ! re the interment an-is f ineiTitwr of the tanar Uiui
miti tie ttopiid t'lans. tiatia. " ' ! r a fri-re of jctis.
Hitch with Polishers
Resumption.
Quincy, Mass.. April. 10. The hopes of
the general public that the differences
between the granite manufacturers and
the several branches of workmen had
been settled by the manufacturers agree
ing before the state board of arbitration
for a five-year bill, were dashed to tlo
ground, when it was given out that the)
committees from the manufacturers and
polishers' union, who had been in session
during Friday afternoon, had failed to
agree and at adjournment were dead
locked. The general public had been led to be
lieve that everything bad been settled
with the exception of a few minor mat
ters between the manufacturers and pol
ishers. Apparently, however, things hud
not been settled.
The two committees, which met Friday
afternoon, struck a snag on section 4.
This provides that every journeyman
was to receive an increase in wages, ac
cording to the increa: in minimum rate.
I'nder the old bill of prices the mini
mum wage for the polishers was $SM.t
per day. It was said, however, thnt fully
40 per cent of the polishers were receiv
ing from 50 to 7.1 cents per day ocr and
above the minimum wage. The new
minimum wage calls for $4 per day,
which lias been agreed upon between tha
manufacturers and polishers.
The trouble arose, however, over, the
polishers demanding that they should re
ceive the same relative increase in daily
wage under the new- bill as tinder the old
bill. In brief this meant that if th
minimum wage was $4 fully 40 per cent
would tie entitled to receive a daily wage
of from $4.50 to $4.7."i per day.
This the manufacturers objected to.
They submitted the following clause t
cover this point.
"A workman once having accepted pay,
his rate will be established and can only
he chanced by mutual consent between
the employer and employe. The rate in
no case to he below the established mini
mum rate." v
K0NTPELIER RESTAURANT SOLD.
Elmer R. Clark and Elmer E. Pien Buy
Farrar Stand.
I" ".' car. The tm rimcbe imme-'.i-
QtJ. lately f..itoming mere partly ders.led. but
(the !t to ar rema ni-d on tl,e trs- k.
I 1 ''. o-nfer werf thmmn in
Sn Ar.tir.H. Tex.. April 1. The Met- t!.e -. he. bi t mt of the in"iri-
kan miliary autb 't.tn bate c2rel -. n-,rlt J i f cuts dJ atrainc.
Americans Gain
rama
Conretsieii from
Authorities.
