FULL LEASED
WIRE DISPATCHES
c
fl
CIRCULATION IS .t
OVER 4000 DAILY
7 IJ ' f;-'rfK.sn
i--.. -i-, '5! .ij U
THIRTY-NINTH YEAR
SALEM, OREGON, MONDAY, APRIL 10, 1916
PRICE TWO CENTS
. fl tl? fl
EACH SI'S LOSS
111 SUNDAY'S FR
WAS APPALLIN I
Teutons Try to Force Fren6
, Out of Trenches North
west of Verdun
TERRIFIC. CHARGES OF
GERMANS REPULSED
Battle Most Furious On We?
Bank, Since mas'i On
Verdun Began
By Ed L. Keen.
(United Press staff correspondent.)
London, April 10. Tlio greatest bat
tle in history entered its fiftieth day
this afternoon with the German crown
prince launching mighty blows nt the
fortress of A'erdun. As the day drew
to a elose the shell scarred old I
and villages among which the struggle
is raging saw more furious fighting
than has occurred since the smash at
Verdun began.
Throwing more than 13(1,000 men Into
nrtinn on uu arc like front, the erown
prince and his consulting generals have
issued orders for every ounce of pow
T to be brought to bear in a titanic
effort to break the steel clad ring of
defenses. While regiments are advanc
ing under a curtain of shrapnel ou the
main front, the (iernmns are pounding
at the northwestern and northeastern
gates of the city with their heavy ar
tillery and their hardiest veterans.
Fighting Is Fierce.
London, April 10. With not a mo
ment's lull in the fierce fighting north
west of Verdun the Germans have fol
lowed up their advance at Hethincourt
with drives against the French wings,
which are five miles apart. The battle
is becoming more f'urious than any en
gagement on the west bank since the
smash at Verdun began, advices de
clared today.
Both side's losses in Sunday's st rug
ale were appalling. The Germans sac
rificed hundreds of men attempting to
duplicate the "nut cracker" tactics by
which they squeezed the French out of
J'.i'thinconi t. The Teutons hope to
force evacuation of all outer fortifica
tions to the northwest.
The " nut cracker's'' right jaw broke
the French line northeast of Avocourt
woo. I. Immediately French counter at
tacks ousted 'he attackers from their
hard won gains. ,
At I he opop.-ite end of t!ie battle
front, the left jaw of the "nut crack
ei" was hurled against French ranks
Vtween Dead Man's hill and Cumieres.
It was heavily repulsed. Kmerging
from the protection of the forest, the
Germans were caught in a withering
five ami halted in disorder before they
reiched the defenders.' breastworks.
Germans Gain 500 Yards.
Paris, April 10. Germans penetrated
French trenches for a depth of more;
than TiilO vards on Hill i'o.l and Dead j
Man's hill in a scries of terrific ns-j
snulls .luring the uigiir-, the" war office
admitted today. I
The German's started a general of-1
fensive against Verdun Sunday along
a front of 12 miles on both banks of j
the Mouse. They were onlv successful,'
however, at Hill 20.", according to the
communique. This rise is on the slope
of Dead Man's hill. Klsewhere they
were hurled back.
On the east bunk there was a bloody
hind to hand struggle south of l'nuau
iiinut. T'ne French churned to be maU-
'Continued on Page Sveo')
5 ABE MARTIN
Thcr don't seem t' be much differ
en.e between th' average layman nu
th' average drayman when it cones t
iinderstnudin' tilings. Itunnin' fer
f e so vim can't notice it is ore of th
k'le; things in politics.
Say Gannon Robbed His
81-Year-01d Sweetheart
Portia ud, Ore., April 10. Charged
by his 81-year-old fiancee with stealing
diamonds worth $500, Charles Gannon,
aged 4.'i, was in the county jail today.
Gannon had been living at the home
if Mrs. Clara Ingalls, and says he was
'ngaged to marry her. Sho gave him
wo diamond earrings and an old-'fash-ned
diamond ring, purchased in St.
'aul a quarter of a century ago. They
ere to bo made, into an engagement
ng.
When arrested in Oregon City yester
y. Gannon displayed jewels which a
local jeweler said were imitations. The
police believe ho substituted paste dia
monds for the original ones.
Garnon was divorced six months 'iga.
Trod Path Walked by Becker
and Schmidt That Led to
Electric Chair
Xew York, April 10 Pr. Arthur
Warren Waite pleaded not guilty today
to a charge of murdering John Feck,
Grand llapids millionaire, his father-in-law.
The plea was entered in the court
of general sessions. Waite 's eounseu
asked leave to withdraw this plea or
make such motion as he might see fit
within 10 days.- After the proceedings
Waite was returned to a cell iu the
Tombs.
Following his plea, Waite, with
chalky face and eyes on the floor, walk
ed across the historic bridge of sighs
to the Tombs. He trod iu the footsteps
of Police Lieutenant Becker, the New
York gunmen and Hans Schmidt, slay
er of Anna Aumuller. Wuite expects to
follow that trail to its end the death
n'hair at Sing Sing.
Detectives helped Waite to dress at
Bellevue hospital. He said good bye to
his nurse then, handcuffed to a detec
tive, was taken in an automobile to
police hendquurters and thence to court.
Mrs. Margaret llortun, the woman
who occupied a studio suite nt the Plaza
hotel, where Waite was a frequent via-
itor. was , i cn,f q '
Leaving the police automobile the
confessed murderer was shackled to two
officers who held him on his feet, as h
was unable to walk without help. In
the tombs he was placed in a cell where
guards cau always watch him, as it U
feared he may attempt suicide.
Advisory Board of
Girls School Meets
With Board of Control
The advisory board of the Girls In
dustrial school met with the state board
of control today for a short session
which was called nt the request of the
ndvisory board. A number of questions '
for the betterment nt' tho ..irU1 i
were taken up and the board of control i inK. ll Wllh torpedoing the channel
formulated some new rules relative to sutoilm" S''ssex wilhout warning, Am
the handling of certain M bassador Von Bernstorli and Secretary
Tl,u .,,,; . i,..i . i
;,,,,.,,. .. ."-, ., ,. illegal submarine activities today. Ihe
mended the erection o another building ,nllfrom,e Ula)(, 10 mimltPa.
at the girls school winch would allow,, , . , . . .
the division of the girls into classes and ' lf tlie, sta e Hu tment consents to
would allow tho segregation of the old-j renrn, 4l'e whole .l'.'t. Germany may
er from the vounger girls. No action P1," a comprehensive controver-
. i . , t , , sv on the entire question of submarine
wastaken m this matter by the board., attu(.,.s inst J,,;,,,, frtf. ht V(,ssel()
The schoo was represented by hupenn-1 Th(re nre mlmer0lllt indications, how
1 en dent hsther M. Hopkins, of the eV(,ri that , Lnllsill(? 0P.m., iform.
Girls school, and Mrs. Lola G. Baldwin. negotiations with liernstorff on the
of Portland, Mrs. Ansteue Felts, of undersea boat issue the state depart
Portland, and Mis. -Molly Dancey, of n, cut does not believe, such proceedings
Salem, to be of any value whatsover. (
Portland Hotels Have
Bible In Every Room
ience had changed the situation, a state
Portland. Ore., April 10. Besides a department official replied: "1 could
telephone, hot and cold water and other not be said that it has."
modern conveniences, every room in -Portland's
larger hotels todav is equip-i th ... . . t j t j '
ped with a Bible. - ' C,h ef .of. ?o1 e0 st,a d I
... . . that he had instructed all of the police.
The Gideons, a relit'ious organization 0cfil.1M.s , olltor,.t. ,u, ,rllfic ordinance!
ot traveling salesmen, ye.-teniay ,i,s- t0 th(l rei,uiring all autos to slow
tnbuted 7j0 Bibles to the hotels. The ,1)WI, or ,.ome , (l st0p wi,(M1 pUHSi,1(
Bible-, were dedicated at the Whit, street cars which were discharging or
Temple church before the "drummers" taking on passengers. It is said that
marched in a procession through the s.iine of the auto drivers have become
streets, distributing them at the hotels. ; negligent, in this respect.
Commission Says No Reason
For Advance of Gasoline
Washington. April 10. CnnttU'licting
the report dint there was a decreased
supply of available gasoline, the fed
eral traile commission today sent to the
senate a preliminary outline of findings
reached in its probe of incerasing pe
trol prices. -
The document said that more tlio a I
100,0011,0110 gallcms of crude pertoleum
were held last February as against Of,-'
.'MO.llUll the previuus February. Thej
production of gnsoline in Janunry. 1SM.1 !
was 7i'.iiii.'!,.17 gallons and last Decern-
ber it was !'T,uTm217.
Show ing a variance of gasoline price j
as compared with tho cot of crude oil. I
the commission reported that ga-olinel
I rose cents a gallon last year fori
ADMIMISTRATION
I
OF LINER ST. PAUL
Circumstantial Evidence Re-
, futes Germany's Story
cf the Sussex
NEW ISSUE RAISED OVER
TORPEDOING FREIGHTERS
Liner Bringing Affidavits of
Survivors Now Not Due
Until Thursday
By Robert J. Bender.
(Tinted Press Staff Correspondent.)
Washington, April 10. The liner St.
Paul which was expected to reach Now
York today with Affidavits from sur
vivors of the liner Sussex disaster, is
not likely to get to Port before Thurs
day. This may delay an important de
cision with regard to German-American
relations, which was to havo been
reached at tomorrow's session of the
cabinet.
Ambassador Gerard's report bearing
on the German disclaimer of responsi
bility for the Sussex explosion is rue
here today. A compilation of evidence
is kept a closely guarded secret. A
high authority, however, stated it was
"strong enough" to convince President
Wilson that a Teuton submarine at
tacked tho Sussex, but perhaps not suf
ficiently conclusive to warrant a sev
erance of diplomatic relations.
While Germany declared that in tor
pedoing four British freighters it did
not violate any of its assurances to the
United States, America is reported to
see in that stand an attitude deserving
of an immedi.ito sharp check. Facing
the difficulty of proving individual
cases, officialdom believes Presjdeut
1?m ' omlmT" mM,era ,
lWllS0" "' a,t "l'n "'lntive evj
dence of Germnny disregarding its sol
emn assurances. The administration will
proceed upon its evidence, regardless
of the German findings, if its own
proves sufficiently strong.
Lansing Meets Borastorff.
Washington, April 10 Secretary
I. .tuning, at the request of Ambassador
Von liernstorff, granted the latter a
conference for this afternoon, it was
learned today. The Sussex disaster will
presumably be discussed.
1 Ambassador Gerard cabled that he
expected to receive a reply to his in-
jquiries with regard to the Sussex af
fair some time today.
Pleads ot Guilty.
Washington, April 10. Germany hnv-
'"8 l'leodeil not guilty, according to
Press cables, to the indictment charg
.ansing ( iscusscii run general cuarge oi
It remains to be seen if today's con-
ferenee was the first of a new series of
informal discussions. Bernstorli' said
he had merely been seeking informs-!
tiou. He asserted the Sussex case was;
not mentioned. Asked if the confer-1
middle western refineries and 5.10 for
eastern refineries, while crude oil res"
1.17 nnd 1.55 in those districts. Kero
sene in the west increased 1.27 a L'allon
and in the enst ..'W while fuel oil rose j
.I in the west and 1.00 in the ea.it.
The remainder of the investigation
will be conducted in connection wi
the depatrment of justice ' probe J
will include an inquiry into cnpitaliza
lion, dividends and piices of oil eon
pany'd stocks too, and iu judgiig
whether high prices are necessurv to
maintain a normal standard of profit,
whether there has been stifling of com
petition, discrimination nnd whether
the state divisions of the Stnndnrd Oi
company have any illegnl relations.
AWAITS ARK VA
SHIPPING PAPER EAST
Oregon City, Ore., April 10.
Workmen were busy today load-
ing 21 freight cars" with news
print paper, to be shipped to a
largo Philadelphia newspaper.
This is the first order received
by the Crown-Willamette Pulp
and Paper company from the
east. :'x
Six-Year-Old Child Was
Murdered at Santa Barbara
Santa Barbara. Cal., April S. Police
here were today investigating the mur
der of 0-year-old Keuata Maecianti,
whoso body was loiftid in n shed one
block from her home nfter jn all night
search.
The child disappeared from home at
7:.'!0 Friday night. She had been at
tacked and killed. The police are hold
ing Joseph Del Ville, w'uo pointed out
tlio burn where the child was found.
Ho protested his innocence. The police
examined Del Ville and it was believed
he knows nothing of the crime.
Neighbors who had spent most of
tho night assisting the anxiuus parents
were horrqr stricken when the jvolice
revealed tae crime Saturday morning.
The act wus one of the most shocking
ever perpetrated here.
SECURE FLAX SEED
Board of Control Orders 358
Bushels Shipped for $720
Due October 1
Governor Withycoinbe yesterd.iy re
ceived an urgent message from the Ku
gene Chamber of Commerce that the
flax seed promised by the state 'for the
Kugene flax planting should be shipped
at once. Today H5S bushels, or about
-0,000 pounds of state grown flax seed,
is being shipped to Kugene.
Under the nrrangemeut made by the
Eugene Chambet of Commerce and ac
cepted ' - the state board of control,
th chamber has agreed topay the state
for this seed on October l", 11116, the
amount involved being $720.00,
Checking over the flax seed on hand
at the penitentiary today, it was found
that tho total amount in the bins is
bushels, or 12,"i,lti0 pounds. This
nas a market value averaging not less
than $2.50 per bushel, although it is be
ing sold to Oregon farmers for $".00 per
bushel. The flax seed itself therefore
represents toilav an asset on the basis
of $il.00 a bushel of about $1,100.00.
Market Remained Quiet
With Prices Unchanged
New York, April 10.-The New York
Kveniiig Sun's financial review todav,
said:
There were no disturbing develop
ments over Sfinday n, connection with
the submarine controversy and tt
Mexican situation. The street resumed
business iu a more cheerful mood. Ac
tivity fell away sharply after the fir'
hour. Dealings, largely professional,
were confined to a relatively few is
sues, conspicuously mercantile marine,
crucible steel and Mexican petroleum,
and later in the day to zinc stocks, ii
temational nickel and Rock fcdiind
Steel opened fractionally higher in
connection with reports that the ton
nage might increase -pproximately 1,
000,000 tons. The actual gain shown
when the figures were published nt
noon was 72,0h5 tons, bringing the un
filled orders on bund to 9,311.001, by
fur the largest steel output in the com
pany's history.
Bonis were generally quiet and va
riably changed. Kock Island issui-s
were strong while Anglo French fives
reacted, selling at !.1 .'1-S. Call loans
were renewed at two per cent.
Holly Lodge Owner
Arrested Yesterday
Portland, Ore.. April 10. Dr. f'l.ai!"s
J. Dean, a physician, was nude- Mrr- ft
today charged with selling into. i units
ni'd maintaining a disorderly iou. ile
was the proprietor of Holly Ledge, i:
road house a mile east of the Portland
city limits, Sheriff Hurlburt anil a force
of deputies raided the place yes
lenbiy and ordered i.i guests in ihe
I ou .ii; to appear ns witnesses.
THE WEATHER I
Oregon: To
night nnd Tues
day s h o w e r s;
winds most ly
southerly.
Mil knevTid
it
BLOODHOUNDS OH
TRAIL OF MEN WHO
x SHOT CONSTABLE
Victim Still Alive But Doctors
Say He Cannot Possibly
Recover
SHOT WHEN HE REFUSED
TO LIBERTE BROTHER
Both Well Armed and It Is
Thought They Will Fight
Until Killed
Auburn, Cal., April 10. Bloodhounds
were placed today on the trail of James
and Albert Cox who last night shot and
probably fatally wounded Constable l
If. Dependener on the court house steps.
The constable was shot because he re
fused to release Arthur Cox, another
Drotner, Held on a misdemeanor charge.
Dependercr was still alive this morning
but local Burgeons nnd doctors brought
from Sacramento held out little hop?
for his recovery.
George Cox, brother of tho hunted
men, believes they will fight to the
death. Both are well armed More
than 100 horsemen have joined in the
hunt. The foothills around this city
are alive with riflemen, searching every
cave and gully, holding their weapons
ready for instant use.
Having a premonition of evil, De
pendercr made his will a few days ago
bequeathing his large estate to two lit
tle daughters.
Accounts of the shooting were some
what different today. Some claimed
the constable had agreed and was on
his way to release Arthur Cox when he
(vns attacked. Tt Is certain that he
dodged behind a post and fired four
shots before a bullet from one of the
Cox boys hit his hand, crippling it.
In their wild flight through town
while citizens were rushing from church
to get their guns and join the hunt,
the fugitves fired three shots nt a
barber named Richardson who crossed
their path.
All the railroads are guarded nnd it
is not thought possible for the fugitives
to have reached a train. They may be
hiding in the brush somewhere between
Opir and Lincoln. If they renched the
Cox cnbin on Soda ranch during tho
night, officers believe they may have
rifles in addition to their revolvers,
Roy Cox has a motorcycle in Sacra
mento, it was stated, which he may en
deavor to reach.
There are five brothers in the Cox
family, Dave lives in Los Angeles. They
originally came from Oklahoma. .
Posse After Them.
Auburn, Cal., April 10. More than
100 heavily armed horsemen maneuver
ed over the hills between here ami New
castle today hunting for the Cox broth
ers, dim and Dave, who shot down
Constable F. II. Dependener on court
house steps last night when he refused
to liberate a third brother, llert, ar
rested for disturbing the pence, De
pendener is seriously wounded.
Witnesses say the Cox brothers ap
proached Dependener as he stood on the
court house steps and demanded their
brother's freedom. He refused and
started to walk away. As his back was
turned the two men opened fire. The
constable quickly drew his own gun
and dodged behind a post. In the duel
he was hit in the stomach, leg ami head,
and dropped senseless.
( hiircli bells were ringing and many
Washington Thinks Villa
Is Near End of His String
By Carl D. Groat.
(United Press staff correspondent.)
Washington. April 10. Hope of
breaking up the Villista bands in Mcx
ic grew here today, n month nfter t1
orders to do so were issued Army men
thought that Major General Fred
Fun'Hton's codo reports might bring
news of Francisco Villa's rapture be
fore the week ends. The warm trail
the United States cavalry is following
is believed to be growing warmer. When
Geuernl Pershing's men close in, if they
are in anything like fresh condition.
Mexico will be lid of Villa, experts here
assert.
The state department is probing th'
sources of rumors which tend to preju
dice lelatious between the Unit '
States and the ile facto government.
Despite the usual crop of wild reports,
officials here declare the Carranzistas
have manifested nothing but friend
liness and a desire to be of assistance
in the hunt.
The army transportation situation is
now under control and more auto trucks
will be ordered if needed. But it i
hoped that the speedy capture of Vil1
will make further purchase unneces
sary. Two more neroplatics will be sent
to the bonier thin week.
Never Again Will Sonny
Play With Grand Daddy
Los Angeles, Cal., April 10. One of
the saddest liMJe boys in the world to
day is "Sonny" Babington, aged 4. -
"Sonny" and his grand daddy, John
Babington, were chums ever since the
younger pal could remember. They
played together continually, uutil one
day recently, grand daddy hurt his leg
and could no longer play actively.
Since then "Sonny" has gone to the
beach, w!h tho family, week ends while
grand daddv staved home. nen Son
ny returned home here last night, they'
found the gas turned on in grand dad
dy's room, and grand daddy dead. A
note said he was "tired, because Son
ny and I cau play together no longer,
Time Was Slow and Attend
ance Light-Probably Last
Race On Course
Riverside, Cal., April 10. While
nothing official has been given out by
tho promoters of the Corona race, it is
believed that the tragedy there Satur
lay will end the racing over the famous
circle.
Hummed up bv the racing men with
whom the United Press correspondent
has talked, the race was a failure from
every angle. The biggest disappoint
ment was with the speed of the racing
cars.
O'Donnell's time was two miles an
hour slower than that of Pullen last
year. The attendance was another big
lisuiqiointment. The long rows ot
grandstand seats resembled a Coast
league ball park at the fag end of the
season. Twenty-tive tiiousnnu poopie
would be a verv conservative estimate
of the crowd. Some place it as low ag
20.000. Just now it is believed that the
holders of the stock will have to stand
an assessment in order to meet the ex
pense of the race. It has been learned
that it cost close to $29,000 to stage the
classic.
Karl Cooper, who was forced out of
the race early because of motor trouble,
left here this morning. He says the
race was a failure and that the stock
holders will have to mako up a defici
ency. He also says Bob Burmun's car
did not turn over when it struck the
pole. "The car skidded," says Cooper.
"When it came in contact with the tel
ephone pole the two en were thrown
out. There is no damage to tho car
that shows that it turned turtle and
rolled over the track as some of tho
papers stated. It was a big surprise
to me. I consid"red Bob liu rniaii ono of
the very best drivers in Cue gnmo anil
because 1 considered him able to man
ago a car under any conditions 1 could
not believe that he had been killed. I
believe that had he escaped the polo
he would have righted his car and no
injuries would have resulted. It is tt
blow to the racing game so far as Cor
ona is concerned."
f
SULTAN 13 SOME DAD
San Francisco, April 10. The
Hiiltan of Solo is the champion
father of the world. According
to Mrs. P. It. Davis, who has .
just returned from visiting tho
potentate's kingdom in Java,
the sultan has 201 sons. He
wears the belt.
The sultan is 50 years of uge,
and has more than 100 wives.
prominent families were strolling in
the main streets as the shot rang out
nnd the Cox brothers run to their horses
flourishing smoking revolvers, threat
ening to kill any person that tried to
halt them.
I "Genera! Pershing's columns show
that there is every indication that the
do facto government troops desire to
'aid the Americans to the full extent of
their nbility," naid a war department
; statement. General Gutierrez nt Chihuu
jliua City has also offered full co opcra-
tion.
With regard to F.I Paso reports that
! f'arrnnn would demand withdrawal of
jl'nited States forces from Mexico, Sec
' rctnry of War Baker mid: "I do not
(believe Carrauza is coining with us
through Kl Paso."
i linker would not comment ou reports
! that I'arrniiza had established n "dead
line" at the Diirango state boundary
beyond which the Americans cannot ro.
I It is not known that a change in the
proposed protocol which Secretary
Lansing is understood to havo found
aci-eptalile provides a limitation for Un
American field operations, but the ex
act nature of the restriction litra no1
iien learned.
Pershing's dispatches a;'nin confirm
ed the statement that Villa hud b
wounded in the right knee. He also re
ported that un aeroplane had been bad
ly damaged Thursday and that the oth
er five military flying machines wcu
bing vitlnuble ser ice.
CAVAlIfl ARE
HOT ON TRAIL OF
FLEElfiAIIDIT
British Refugee From Parral
Asserts Villa Is Not
Wounded
ANXIOUS TO END CHASE,
TO RELIEVE CARRANZA
No Credence Given Story That
General Salazar Will Start
Revolution
By E. T. Conkle.
(United Press staff correspondent.)
El Paso, Texas, April lO.tDoggedly
trailing Francisco Villa, American cav
alrymen today were believed to be it
the desolate Sierra Madres around Par
ral. At least one full day ahead of thi.
' 'nemesis, " the banort chieftain was.
rcportod with 200 followers at Mag
istral, a camp iu Diirango wtato.
He a making every etfort to join tn
Arrieta brothers who have 3,000 men
around Diirango City, according to in
formation from American officers of
mining company at Parrul. Villa, paw
ed Parral Saturday. Magistral ia near
ly 75 miles south, over bad trails. The
Sierra De La Candida iu that region
rears its peaks to a height of two miles,
offering greater hardships than the.
United States 'forces have yet encount
ered.
Although spurrea on by &
desire quickly to end the chase and re
lieve Curruuza from tho danger of re
volt threatened by generals opposed to
tho expedition, the Americans ire be
lieved falling behind. Villa obtainul
fresh mounts nt I urrni. With his great
knowledge of the mountain trails, his
chances of eluding the pursuers for an
indefinite period are considered good.
While official Mexican advices h'.-.I
insist that Villa is wounded, Juroet
Hamilton, a British refugee from l'ir-
rul, said he had absolutely authectb.
word from Mexican miners that the o.--hiw
is unhurt. Hamilton who is nr.
quuintcd with the Candela district, said
ho thought Villa wus practically sate
from capture there.
Officials refused to take seno-i-lv f no
news of General Salazar 's dep.irt int-
a'fter issuing a proclumatiun asking nil'
Mexicans to join Ins now revolution.
Sniiirur is known to bo oprvjc' to
Villa.
Alarmist rumors of imminent dii'irer
from Kl Paso Mexicans ri'.sing up si mo I
tanec.isly with a Mexican n.iti.iy nt Ju
ir wire treated lightly.
Cceral Gavira is reported to be con
fiidorinir going to Chiliuan'ri Ci'y for
tho purpose pf participating in the Vil
la lint. If he should do so, Geneiul
Pcrternillo Hernandez may snjcud hua
as commandant ut Juarez.
Tl.a statement that in a secret pro
tocol Washington had promised Oman
7.1 not. to pursue Villa beyond a fi.ei
distance, and that sinco Villa wis al
ready levond that limit the Aiuri-
cuus would have to with !n.w t rout
Mvixicc, was declared trrooaidl "w bv
C'onm.1 Garcia.
Guarding Against Raids.
San Diego, Cal., April 10. Rancher
along the Mexican border near hern
have organized a patrol nnd are guard
ing the line iigainst possible raids bv
renegade Mexicans. I hey have been
alurmed by reports that bands have
been gathering near Tecate, scene of a
raid a year ngo when nu American store
keeper wns murdered and his store ami
the postoffice burned. Kvery rend ami
trail east anil west of Cauipo for miles
is guarded. Mnguiucs at the San Diego
and Arizona railroad construction
camps are under heavy guard to pro
ven! dynamite being taken. "While
wo nre not looking for trouble," mi id
one rancher today, "wo do not propost
to have a repetition of the Columbi.-j,
N. M., nmssucre. "
Aviators Treated Well.
San Antonio, Texas, April 10 Ameri
can aviators who landed iu Chihiiahuit.
stnto were courteously , treated by
Genorul Gutierrez, commundunt there,
although crowds of peons threw stone
before they realized the American hud
como on n friendly mission, it wti.t
lenrned at army lieailqunrters today.
Headquarters was not fully in touch
with the United States columns in Mex
ico, but it wus stilted the officials here
would not be surprised it Colonels
Brown or Dodd reuclicd Parrul today.
WASHINGTON JUNIOR
HIGH SCHOOL NOTES
Lust week the base ball players of
thn school took advantage of the finA
weather nnd put in good tiino practic-
ng. The bovs tcel that the team is in
good shape and already have visions of
the championship.
Tub mils of the school hive heen
practicing play ground ball. Th first
gams of the season will be played April
I'J with the Lincoln junior high school
team. The captains for the girls ar
r.thel Swart-, Pauline Dick nuJ rerol
Flc-dicr.
I
