v , ,N',.
'Kl
REGISTER Books at Court House and City Hslll are Open Evenings From 7 to 9 REGISTER
ji.v
- t. .
- :? c.l
l?? iEutfttfnn lteraU
KLAMATH COUNTY'S
OFFICIAL NEWSPAPER
KLAMATH FALLS'
OFFICIAL NEWSPAPER
1
."
IK
fMlh Ywr ! "i968
KLAMATH FALLS, OREGON, MONDAY, APRIL 10, 1916
Price, Fife Oeat
RECALL WILL BE
PUT UP TO THE r
COUNCILTONIGHT
Salvation Lass Goes into Movies
AMERCANS
NOW
'CTITIXS ARK ALL KIOXKD I'P
TODAY
The IN-lilml Mnwiiiriit IIm-,
riling Tonlulil, to Have III IK'iitlt
Muter i'ul I'P '" the i"fl '''
(.utrrnl Election Mny 11 Iim-HI-clesry
mid l.-k of Economy Are
iho tliaritc Mml.
The nollllunH unking ttiif lucill of
three member of the city ceuncil: O.
D. Matllicwa, A. I). Miller and M. It
Doty, will be presented to thu conn
til tonight. TIiohp behind the recall
dope In this way ti linvo tlw recall
nutter on tlio ballot at the May oIit
Hod, thim saving (ho cont of a special
tlKllOII.
Tito clmrKo made agalnm e.ich
rouncllman Ih that lio "has not boon
tfflclcnt In tlio administration of the
him of tin- city of Klatniith FiiIIh,
OrtKoii nnil linn not observed reiiHou
able economy In tlio flnnnrlul expen
ditures nn behalf of tlio until city."
Thsus petitions ntik for the recall
of the men mentioned, and thu rail
he of recall election by the council.
11 A STEER;
LUND IN
PRISON
- J':VB ifliiB'
SSBPS-SPSSKfSK' V&eLMB. LT .'.. ..W?-f?.Wtiilt
i i m - - xrc8m&8Pi
mmmm?Mi ;H&mms
BSBBBBBBBTEHwSsssiiy'Jf v? x'i ' v W&PW;M'&'
BssBBBssWr3rFVS5N'& .rj?i xt $2&Z&ii&M-M?i im
vA' -j' - ' V iVoJ K
hTljP
TRAILING VILLA
T
HR
mm
Saving Money tor Dad
1
washixutox p.xii:crs rwrvxiv.
tiiih vi:i;k
Ki-miii the Kioni, lidtictci', '
Atv Sot Ho Kniiui(-fiii:, anil ll.-inl I
lilM of Aincrlrsm TroM liirr-;iv.
Villa Said to II.mc Srnmil Krcli
Mm, mid to if
t
mi Ally.
MouiiU for HIh
l'i-liy IMna May, now Mrb. l-ev-luhon,
who w 0110 of tliu moul ioiu
Inr nctrem,8 In thu t'nlted Stnten. Ikh
como liacl. to the tat;o. Ilor liiiHband
hai all the money necessary for tlie
two, but alio Iiiih conic liacli to lie a
Salvation Iuhh ak'iiln
Submarine Muddle. ,
Now Clear as Mud,
H
S
, . ir'fej' '.lj.181
.avjTSSJi
".
'ress Servke
WASHINGTON, 1). C, April 10.
Tlio Iiopoh of cffedtnally breaking up
tlio Vllllstu bands -nnd tlic capture of
Villa have grown here.
ll Ih a month vtoday since orders
v."ie Issued for tbc army to advance.
Army ofllcers extiect Funston to hear
btiforc the week md that Villa has
'been taken. The warm trail Is bc
ll"Vod to be growing warmer.
The state department is tracing to
tlielr sources rumors tending to preju
ilic relations between the United
States and Carranza. The war de
l artment snys everything indicates
t I'll t Cnrranza Is aiding tlio expedition
to the full extent of his ability.
Secretary Baker would not com
ment upon the reports that Carranza
lin established a dead line near the
Imraneo boundary, boyond which the
American forces cannot go. It is un-J
riorxtood the protocol proposed some'
limitation. uponvttnaraYls of. Amerl
cat) troops, hut how?ar this Is, is un
known.
H9
'M H
kkkkkB kkkkkV
TWO 6IRLS ARE GERMAN ATTACK
IN QUEEN RACE' IS RENEWED IN
INTENSE FORCE
W.UVK JAX)B8 AND NORAH Mc-
:iiAi auk "rntrants, AND
FRIENDS OF BOTH ARK WORK
ING HARD TODAY
There are two candidate (or the
Klamath Fulls nomination as queen
of the Portland Rose Festival. These
are Miss Waive Jacobs and Miss
Norab McClain. Which one of these
rtlll be the nominee Is a question to
be settled when the primary votes
are counted tonight.
Just who will be nominated is a
hard matter to state. Both are being
hupported in splendid shape by their
many friends, and at tbe time or go
ing to press the race is nlp-and-tuck,
with both sides working hard.
Voting upon these two candidates
closes at 8 o'clock this evening.
Votes can be cast at tbe Commercial
Club, where the ballot box is located,
"and friends desiring to help either
of these young ladies now have but a
short time in which to send in their
votes
MIgb Jacobs Is well known in Klam
th Falls, having resided here many
years. She Is the daughter of Mr,
and Mrs. L. Jacobs, and besides at-
'tenilliiK Klamath County High School.
she is elso well known in musical and
I social circles, as well as through her
work in local theatricals.
Miss McClain, although she has not
resided here as long as Miss Jacobs,
has an equally strong following. She
i:i:i)U. is iouvni;i
THREF. 8IDKH
FROM
'oIlonitiK Tlielr Victory at lletlilu.
court, Tcutr.nlc Forrew Regta Gen.
(fill Offensive Aguinot Vrrduii
Along Roth Side of tlie Maeae.
French Forced to Relinquish Part
of Hill No. 303.
t'nlted Press Service
LONDON, April 0. The battle' of
Verdun, the greatest battle In the
world's history, entered Its fiftieth
day this morning with the most furi
ous fighting since the beginning of
the Verdun offensive. v
German troops are pounding the
French fortress from three, sides,
using 150,000 men.
London newspapers estimate tbe
German losses to date at 2,730,917.
&l
&
UOODCHOPPKRH ON FORT KLAM
ATII ROAD FXTF.R TIIK IIL'TCH-
i:it iiukixi:kh with dirk xx-
hKQUKXCKS
l'nlted 1'ronH Service
. WASHINGTON, D. C April 10.
'oerniun Ambnssudor von Ilornstorff
and Btato Secretary Lansing today
riliniMcd the gonerul chargo of Illegal
HtibmarlnliiK. Thoy talked for about
ten minute, and It Ih understood that
If America cunscnts to reopen thu
BecauHo thoy Imbibed too freely of ciueMlon, Germany may precipitate h
a monthly allownnco of Dorrls pro- gtinernl controversy regarding the
, Frank von Hotton nnd Charles whulr question of nttncklng freight
Price, two woodchoppers, nro In the ern Tl'cro aro numerous Indications
wunty Jail, awaiting the action of tho'tl.at Lansing thinks further lnfornir.1
irand Jury. They aro charged wlth'nfgotlatlons aro of no valno.
killing a steer belonging to J, Frank
Adamg & Son yesterday
When Deputy Sheriffs Low and Ul-
From Merrill.
Mr. and Mrs. W.
C. Dunning, Uob-
rich took up tlio trail thoy found tlio ert Malcomb and Mrs. George Hnwx
teer half skinned, nnd nfter some hurst were tlio Morrlllltos spending
fumahoo work located tlio two men
hiding In tho brush. One of tho mon """":""
Emitted that thoy killed tho steer, Holiln Umt Hiwion.
but laid It to the liquor. , Tho class In the Social Teachings
Tho two men have boon chopping. of Josus will hold Its three last sos
wood on the Port Kintnnth voni tinrt 'Minim this week In Library hall at
Stiles, who hoard a shot and saw thoiSiSO n. m. on Tuosdny, Wednesday
other cattlo runnin nnttfldt ih nml Thursday. T6plc for Tuosday,
I'ORTLAXD ItOKK FKSTIVAL
lllld QUKKX COXTKST
(JOOD FOR OXK VOTK
Void After Hatuiday, April I."
Name
Organization
This coupon will count one
vote when properly filled out
and sent to Portland Hebo Festi
val Contest department, No. 337
Northwestern National Bank
building. Coupons must bo neat
ly trimmed nnd put in u package
with number of votes written on
oii.
rolled Press Service
EL PASO. Tox., April 10. Amer
ican cavalry Is now in the desolate
Sierras around Parral. Villa Is at
lcai'i a day ahead, at Magistral, hop
ing to Join forces with tho Arrleta
brothers In Sierra de la Candela. That
vicinity offers Increasing
for the American forces.
Wjllard. Outcalt , .
In his High School Suit
Ta Plnnlntintl Vt Icvli oithAnl hnwo
wuu uavo vuiuo l.u uio wuviuuun ui
their clothes have cost their father
altogether too much, have formed the
Dress Reform League, and this pic
ture shows Wlllurd Outcalt, one of
the leaders, in the neWcostume. It
Is made up of corduroy trousers, gray
flannel shirt, with collar attached.
hardsn,nsj sweater for a coat and a flowing silk
tie and cap.
I'uited Press Service
PARIS, April 10. It U officially
announced that German force pen
etrated the French lines on Hill 296
to a depth of 500 yards. They made
terrific assaults upon Dead Man's
Hill Saturday and yesterday. ,
Is an operator at the local telephone . . .- "r'"-'"
,v,.,n, ,. .jj,.. . .... auU yesterday ona front twalve
exchange, and In addition to having ... . , .i-'r - v. c- .
, i ,k.'. , i miles In length1, along both banks of
the employes of that company work- ,. "
, inn ior uer, me ao lias a strong 101- Eeneral aaaauli tollawad lha
lowUg-nonr VmtmmM . WSiSlS
box factories and among the residents ,, ..,. 7 "T; ZT . '
of Falrrlew anrldnlty. Oethlncourt section IMk troopr.
, i were at once rusnea up ny ino Ten-
tons, and the battle rages today with
North on Bbsumm. ' the greatest intensity.
Project Manager J. G. Camp of the The only gain made In the new cm
reclamation service lft today for slaught wa on Hill 295. GlMwbere
Fortland, where he goes to give at- the French have held off the Ger
tf ntion to service affairs. f mans.
It is estimated that the losses on
Gets a New Car. both sides, since the battle begun,
Deputy Sheriff George C. Ulrica. Is are 200,000.
Thi- American troops are believed ( The corduroy wllUa8t twice M ,ong
(., be falling behind. Villa It is re- fls nny trouserf tfeey couW
ported, obtained fresh mounts for hlslfor the 8ajae &nd g0 w
, . . . ' of the other articles.
Garcia declared i ...
"Tills ought to Decome tne unuorm
of every boy whose father Is kind
men et Pnrral.
Cniranza Consul
groundless the reports of a secret pro
tocol In which Washington has prom
iseJ not to pursue Villa beyond a cer- ' ' W h whf he
. . . thrmiffh hlffh oohnnl " raI1 Wlllnrd
tain" distance.
Wilt's office
notified
th and Thursday. Topic tor
I 'Jesus' Teaching Regarding Wealth."
Nine Bills Now Ready
tor November Ballot
U. S. ARMY HEADQUARTERS, Buo-
,lan, Mexico, by motor to Columbus, J
N. M. Details of the American vlc-
! tory at Aguas Callentes last Saturday I
dS J.. A .ulilnJ MMk kit MAIISliAII
nave jusi arrivcu iicid uj iiiuuuku
I courier.
In n narrow valley twenty miles
southeast of Dachlneva groups of ban-;
dlts squatted around their camp Bras j
jbeforo the United States cavalry ar-
rivea, saia tne aavices. inoir cum
drons of frijoles were bubbling, andj
strips or jerKy wore wruaius on wo
coals. Other outlaws-lolled on dirty j
'.blankets, busying themselves mend
ling harness or cleaning guns. The,
.. scene was military, hut peaceful.
....,.... -riii. rvMMiKWiv1 The men comprised a band formed!
FEDKRAL TRAD!, ( OSLM1SSIOX by ., Erwn.a
HAV8 THERE 18 NO DECREASE troopers at San Gerenlmo three,
. .. 'days before. They felt they had
IN SUPPLY, UATtiit.it .. nnrnp, . re8, nnd were enjoying it
through high school," said Willard
Outcalt. "I hope many more outside
i of Cincinnati adopt It."
..
GASOLINE TRUST
HIT IN REPORT!
NEW. STORE IS
OPENED TODAY
PORTLAND BUSINESS MAN
BRINGS A WELL SELECTED
STOCK OR DRYGOODS AND
LADIES' FURNISHINGS HERE
the latest local auto owner, having'
Just purchased a Chevrolet touring fl,etors, Meetlsur.
car.
For temporary use, aluminum wire
can be insulated" by dipping it while
A. meeting of the directors of the
Klamath Commercial Club will be
held tomorrow night. .,
A simple machine for feeding wire-'
hot in a cold solution of carbonate of ,,nto a nim wlthout jj, or
soda, which heavily oxidises It
So many aviation accidents have
been due to aviators being unable to
stop their machines quickly on reach
ing the ground that a Frenchman has
equipped his with a friction brake.
, bending has been patented by a Mln
' neapolls inventor. , '
A telescoping device has been in
vented In Germany to regulate the
heat from a Bunsen burner vTtnout
altering the flow of gas.
At least six initiative petitions pro-' traps or IIbIi wheels." Initiated by
PMlnt constitutional amendments 'clacknmni County FUhormon's union.
CREASE IN CRUDE OIL
d laws and throe measures referred
.to tho people by the last legislature
will be on the ballot at the election
ne Kovomber. Initiative petitions
hlth will be on the ballot are as
follows;
To provide for one day of rest In
wtu, and setting apart Sunday as a
y of public rest, and excepting
PtMary occupations and employ
wts. Proposed by the Weekly Rest
y League of Portland.
To abolish Sunday closing law, re-
"uk section aiDR of tin a lfi.
Klamath Fals" latest mercantile es
tablishment, the store of F. J. Erz,
earned a reBt. and were enjoying it. .opened for business toaay. Despite
'Thoy had no thought of combat. Many, the Inclemency, of the weather, the
rifles were strapped to the mule. volume of business has been larger
packs. 'than expected.
1 Encamped as they were at an altl- ( The new establishment is located in
tude of a mile and a half, tbe air was ,10 Stewart building, on Main street,
L'olhar Ml 111 hilt the BUn Came OUt n...CIllli A tins Hi-vimwla nnil
Th. throo nrouosod constitutional Tho general trado commission s pro- brlghtljr Bt n00Bi ofter ,jayB ot snow ,ndiC8. weftr ,8 carried, and in time
amendments referred to tho people by " nary report on ;"--; nd rain, and the weary Vllllstas con- Mr Erj! expect8 t0 add other lines ot
.,. ii.i...r r sonato Joint resolu- non ".wul u "'" """'" ""'' tentedly basked in its rays. thts character to his well selected
....... : ... Tins comraaicis mo ruimnou uunvnou, ,,,tn.., ,..ini iiii n( iu.i
To remove countyoat of Jefferson
county from Culver to Madras. Iro ( a ,l(ftjrrtcil
posed by '"Madras for County Beat WABHINQT0N a c, Anr1 0,
KjIWU,
. e - . .
'i withnut wnrninaT. n nvcinna or nH-ni...i,
nmrlnrtlmi ' V ? - . 7 " iWP"
nil. In nninllAtd
0 A 49 llWWUHmvw
ri nnil nas. i. io muu ... ... j
No 12 nrorioses amending section w,'y "" " """" ""! gro cavalrymen led by Colonel Drown Mr, Ers has long been connected
l of arelclo C of the constitution so saying over iUW."." "'" charged pell mell down the steep wttn Llpman, Wolfe ft Co. and Olds,
in of nreicto u il ,,do potroloum were hold by refln- h BUrtled camn. The ,.. A v, - t...i.h i.
InS-iUMtagroroprlaUon bills. "le la8t Fuwy. as against .- thUBder of , their horses' galloping tog a w,de kMwledge ot the drygood,
m.m.w -w -- nilll mill n veiir UUIUIV. ll H..M n.nAlnad hn tha AMKfrll w . i &. ..1
came ii iviumum everai
looking, tor a
decided, that
Hundreds Turn Out tor
the Big Rabbit Drive
The Lorella vicinity Is minus many . eniug as the line closed la on the rabf
Jackrabblts today, as a result ot the bits in the pen. It was short work tq
big drive held there yesterday. An '-dispatch the Jacks which were en
official count shows that there were trapped In the rabbit wire enclosure.
286 "bunnies" slain, but from all ac- At a point of vantage was posted
counts, the yelling horde of drlverstjoue CVR. Miller, with a metlom ple
as It advanced, scared the escaping , ture machine. His trusty lens eaught
rabbits so badly that they havn't
stopped running yea and they are
due at Logan, Utah, at 7:11 tonight.
There were closo to seventy auto
mobile loads of people out forthe
drive, besides the people ot the Iorel
la district, turning out afoot and
horseback. There were close to forty
cars of Klamath Falls people, and
M.errtll, Bonanza and other sections
were also well represented by auto
parties.
Owing to the large area encircled.
all ot the excitement, and sewe real
surprises are promised "when the
film Is developed and shown on a
local screen.
One ot the most notable feats 'of
the drive was a race between a elon-;
gated carrier of ticks and' Judge Kny
kendall. Kuykendall, In his student
... ... .. . - '
r?.
days at the University ot Qjfm.yitlg&
one of the school's speedlessaenrf jf
on the sprinting track." WliemstttMK .kh
.!
m. m
Ri
constitution, would oxempt
jard'i i Oregon Laws. Initiated by In-jforolgn trado, which aro roglsterod In
-muuent KetBlUral lunnUtlnn nf
Cortland
Proposing lawto'proteci salmon
We Columbia River and Its trlbi
wii and barring Ashing with seines
igle Items in o ppwrwm ... -...- botore ,--- - ---"- j - v, fc;, - -
No. 18, amending article y . m. -" ne rUe of .- --- -;- - Zm " "!.."' 'r"1" """".the cklrmtah line of drivers, before
notitntlon. would oxempt rrora tbx- - -.. ." .- ..-.o- -il r'" """ "'" "" "' - wtoks ago, looKing. ior a "... ..--h imi, i . , thin
'and he decided, that the prospects' .. ....... . .k ..kwn. u,.
A score ot Vllllstas had tumbled , here ere better than any place else In ?" ""' ! 'u' 'J- w. T
headlong Into the bloody dust before. iUte, ttoM2
the Americans reached the camp's . . llr 'kki.. !!Vh. ,
ouuklrts. Twenty more corpses llnod' t thr" m tbV.' . ,..
h" route of their retreat. Outof the 135,000,000 railroad ties, The noise of the driver. waa Ike
Only a handful attenpted to Are
. . ..!,. r nnia n snllon last year for .
Hm, until 1036. except tnxos for stato '' "."'"--- , ' man men
" - . ", nftv ,, nnd the Mtauie wesieru ihuuo.ibp,
PU'0BB"' ft 'r8.9"? r 2 tor ru-e of 5 cents per gallon In the
moro capacity engaged In coast or.
Eastern plants.
Oregon.
No, 82 proposes t6 repeal section o
of article 2 of the constitution, which
reads: "No negro, Chinaman or mu
latto shall have The right of suffrage."
For covering a milk bottle after
the paper cap has been removed there
has been Invented a closely fitting
porcelain stopper.
(Continued on page 41
used each year In the United -States. ' unto that of the Comanches or Meux
New York supplies about per cent! when on scalping expeditions to the
and consumes about l,e00.6. .early days. Aucuetm
on the sprinting track. When, M us ;p
after the rabbit, amid tsw'afsotWW
tne oiooainirsiy ! t; wmn-' Kg
fh Hhhli mtTMiKt, nut 't--kiviiM;-5I'
"- -.--- -- fz-r jr -r tw
but in so doing, tne layer .f
eggs was able to flnalv.
,
V.IJ.1
M
ki'
"
tbe Jurist, , . "$
. HklJI.. . - " --.
n. u. BWIff m uvtwum , wpr q,
in the arraigese;ilM;is Vm.
which oame aa a e4a.lf minmwj;
.' ..-. m ' - -
ariyss ny,tf wwwap
sundry vthsMiapdg',
kllW 'dnrtog .wtaKt
S
'
II
- ". lVi jj
h
UV?ri
