.'.
THE WEATHER FORECAST.
Fair and cold to-day; cloudy and
warmer .to-morrow. t,
IT SHINES FOP, ALL
Highest temperature yesterday, 36; lowest, 9.
Detailed weather, mull ami in. nine report on vme lu
1 9
PRICE WO ' CfcWrS. ,
VOL LXXXIII. NO. 200.
NEW YORK, SATURDAY, MARCH 18, 1916. Copirl0if,l!l;. the Sun Printing and ..MI.MrijAssorlriHoii,
GERMANYGIYES
0. S. ENGLAND'S
SECRETORDERS
PoiMiini'iits Berlin Says
Wt'iv Kounil n Vessels
A ro Made Public.
IXSTIM'f'TKD HOW TO
FIGHT SUBMARINES
Wa.him.toN. M.ireh 17. The State
CpartTHit tiuiln iitihlli! to-day copies
f th 'Vecret orders" which tlio German
Oov.rnm'nt .iilms were given by th
Brllifh Vtlmtralty to Uritlsh sailing
itmtns. Instructing them to attack Ger-
tr i- submarines. Tin- orders were com-
BUitilated to tlio Uepai Uncut by Count
ton lUrn-t rff, the German AmDa-suaor,
In Mipirt of 111" Government's conten
tion that lhitlsh armed passenger or
xrr .aM e i'i are armed for offence
V IV .'.fore not entitled to the special
protection aec jrded to unarmed mr
c a. 'men.
Th" secret order?." marked confldoii
til am! bearing the warning that they
mutt under no circumstances bo allowed
to f ill into the hands of the enemy, are
ti gtJ to have been found on the Eng
1,1 Meamer Wondtleld. captured by the
tivriiu.is. The Heillti Government con
that they havo u direct and Im-
,r jnt bearing on the question of armed
' .A .unt ships and show that all Ur It lull
' ii. ,1 s'i are playing the role of war
, , The iHiliit Im emphasized that
jkhI'K Wilson's claim for Immunity
, clips "armed for defence only" caii
iui .U'Piv to lhitlsh china at all If It la
u. r. that the Hrltlsh Admiralty or
d. -- them to attack submarine.
So comment wan made at tho State
n.'.. nicnt with reference to the tier-
ir, . wimunlcatloti. Acting Secretary
I'., .villained that the united States
,f .- i pl m.utlng public a communi
. , it. it hail recled from llerlln.
t .over bearing It will have on the
.ti,d shlo Issue, or the slbinarlii
eei.trove sy with tlio Central l'our in
nt In Kffrrt To-day.
At the British tlmbassy It was waid
t!nt the Admiralty alone would be In a
jes.tbn to refute or discus the alleged
Wet orders." Officials In touch with
o,t British Government understand,
fcomver that these orders applied to a
tlx when Gcnnan susmarino) were
li.dKrlmtnatcly attatklnK all psenger
ird merchant vessels without waxulng
u.i tii.it coincquently the only hope for
..r.... 1,.i- In ilp.tri.vlntr enemy suo-
xur'nes ,f possible whenever they made
'a .inn. .trance. It Is said that sub-
flint the Hrltlsh Admiralty niodllled
t - order anil that they are not in
IT' t to-day.
Tii- ft turning are the most significant
of tat all. i:ed "secret orders ' :
Koun i n th- Hngllsh. steamer
Woodrieid.
Cor-.dntlal. N'o. IT.. '
In ircum-tances Is this paper
to I"' allowed to fall Into the hands
of t el.. in.
T. s paper l for the macttr'h per-ur-nitlon.
It Is not to be
u,1 i i when not actually in U!-
lr 'o i. kp In safet; In a pla.ee
tii r. i an ! destroyed at a mo-
Tl . not 't .
Su. .. txTtloni ua call for Immedl
ti j tuc. may be communicated ver-
t ie uillocrs eoncerntd.
.'It' I'thruary. ll'l.".,
Ii -'r i t.r.nh regarillng oubmarines
mil iul in ei.vlti carriinc a de-
fr. v ,i ' uauient.
I'tf ,;!.!y armed vrteeU should
lo ,e jemially the Inidnietl'jns for
t" r nurchani fhlpt.
!. ! -ubiiiarlne waters .runs ould
t 'if ti' ti, nstant readlms.
3 If a Mibinarlne le oboiifly tmr
tiilrtr i -ill' by da, and It l evident
to the ii'iiH'cr that rUv has hotlle
IM'' m. the ship pursued should
o;. "n. in m If.defi'iice, notwlthstand-If.-
i Mibiiurine may not have emu
tr.l.'.j dolnlie hostllo act, such as
S' r i cun or torped".
I It t. of the '-rtat difficulty In
d. n , frletul from an enemy
' i ' t r. tliould nvt b opi ned after
if ii - n le alisolutrlv certain
th.. i. v,- .,i nr.il at Is hostile.
i I..' -. rip.uiug lire, the Uritish
W 'lid V.. hoisted
...in al lli.it tire should not
f "Hfl under neutral colors.
Has I'n ii llernntlt e,
' I' a difenslvely armed vessel is
ursii. I l,y a submarine the matter
li' live, a'.ti rnatlves :
A i Ti open tire at long range Im
n.ei.at. n t s certain that tho sub
mar in. s really u pursuit.
1 o To letalu lire until the sun-
mar1.
ia . lo"vd to a range, say 800
ai
f,
I
ot
he.
Rr -
flf.
II
which Mr.: is likely to be
iv of the very great dirtlcully
', gcj.sliliig bctwtin friendly and
Ibiii.irlnen at long range (one
'lliiu.irili.i has alieady been
it n ,i merchant vessel which
'"'T "i-ii nipisjstd hersill to bn
fir-u ii by ihe submarine), It Ih
in ri. (inimeniled that course
i' .ui bo adopted by all de-
' civ armed ships.
( T. nibiuarln.i's Mug is no guide to
' ' rdteiiiality, as Gerinan tubmarlnea
'"fur"v dy lirltish odor?.
Ve jrl carrying a defensive ar
rr.iiiiri and proceeding to neutral
poj'e must not be painted In neutral
colors 01 wear a neutral Hag.
5, It is roi-ommended thut In neutral
ports, particularly those of Spain, the
"mi ment should be. concealed as far
ls r-.uil(. A canvas cover let reoom
mended for this iurpose.
Orders for Transport.
Memorandum for Issue to masters
f transports carrying troops.
Use of rllle, und machine gun fire
y troops on hoard transports against
r.emy nubinarlnes or torpedo craft.
G) In daylight, a submarine will
rol,ii,y attack while submerged, with
nly her periscope) showing.
U iiiflil. In moonlight, a subina
" may attack while on the surfaco
r with only her conning tower above
ater owing to the dimctilty of ieo
iff through the periscope, at night.
I") In either ruse, heavy rifle or
TJ'o'ri n gun lire will mako It more
tdfflnili fur a submarine to muke a
w.-i ,fu r,i.t with a torpedo. If
"merged. Mu Injur)' will don
C'otf iMiitti on fourth Page,
HAND OF BALLIN IS SEEN
IN FALL OF VON TIRPITZ
Berlin Newspapers Assert Hamburg-American Head
Warned Kaiser of Commercial Disaster Report
Chancellor May Also Retire.
Sfnnl Vahlt lntiH-h lo Tin: St,i.
Itl.MKIN. March 17, (irtirta ilf.
imtrh to the "llally ' Kirr" iUnle.
llerlln rrpnrt to I lie rfferl thiil t'tiun.
erllor ion UethinnnicllnllnrK mil) fol
low Admiral n Tlrplt Into retirement.
The report hImi tnte Hint I'rlnrr Mtu
llnlnw, formerly Chunrelbir. will Mttin
leHp l.arrrne to go lo llerlln.
I.OMKJN'. ..March IS, Tlie Killy .Wnll
gives prominence to a despatch from lu
Hern correspondent on the subject of the
resignation of llraml Admiral von Tlr
pltz as MlnlMer of Marine. The corre
spondent says :
"The resignation of Grand Admiral
von Tlrpltz was finally brought about,
according to the newspapers, by Albert
Uillln head of the llambiirg-Amerkan
I.lnc, who still Is opposed to many
features of the submarine policy, llerr
Rillln ha the Kaiser's ear and Is said to
have warned the Kmiwror and the Im
perial Chancellor, Dr. von Uetlun.uin-
llollwcg. thai the result of tho useless
destruction of merchant ships would lie
tho selxurc of German vessels not only
by I'ortugal but by other neutrals.
Hcrr Hallln also warne.1 them that
Germany's latt sheet anchor after the
war. namely. South America. Is break
Ins away and that further conflict with
the United States on the subject of the
defensive arming of merchantmen would
finally Isolate Germany.
H s arguments weie suppoMeu ny in'
vote In the American Congress and the
lupld fall of exchange.
Von TlrviUH supporters lravo nivn
pressing for a campaign against the
Imperial Chancellor on the reasseinnung
of the Helchstag.
"lloth tho Vo.-nhrhr .rttunti and or-
Katrta Indicated at the liegtnultig of the
week that u breakup of the ivirlliunen
tar' truce appeared to be Inevitable.
"The Hosier .Vnrhrlclilra ays.
"'Tle threatened trade war after the
war Is such 11 serious prospect that the
imtmenur.cn of the kist oversea market
America, is sufficiently ImtKirtant to out-
welch the mlvnntages of the mirth"
pursuance of the submarine c-atnvalgn.'
TI,.. connection of Von Tlrpitz's fall
with the German foielgn licy Is shown
lie thi. fait that Pr. von Uetiimanu-ii'ni
w"eg refused to meet the Foreign Affairs
of tho Keileral Council last
Friday until he had finally received the
Kaiser's ileetslon.
"The South German newspapers ex
plain that no comment Is permitted, but
they do ti.it disguise tho gravity of the
crisis. It s renorted that the nrst inn
nvitlnn received by Grand Admiral von
Tlrplti tht he had lost In his duel with
the Imperial Chancellor was UieWHff
llureau's announcement of hli "Illness.'
Tho papers think that the effects or nis
. " '. ... . . - .
resignation win mn oe bp.hi.i.i . n.
us every effort will be. made to conceal
actual decisions and also to pacify asl
far as poslble the strong Von Tlrpltz I
HEAR BRAZIL SEIZED
42 TEUTON VESSELS
IntiTiioil Ships Taken 0 vei
ns I'l-otost, Says Koport
in Liverpool.
IiNtior:, March IT. A report from
I.lverpooi 'savs the Hni7.lll.ili Government
UrlJiX'Jll:
eriie.i in "
ureas, in i. ....,. . ...
lit elvin- selz.nl fourteen are ai ue
Port of Hli) de Janeiro and twelve at'hilll ,,AC rl(M , pllt tbrough sotno
jnanlhuco TI, cause of of a measure providing for the
that Germany has per-lslentl) ix uisen
to release .-..free, worth IT.OoO.non whlcli
wus seized by Gel many. Tii. ...ffee Is
the Pix.f.. rty of the sin nnilo i.ovirn-
lliem,
CONSULDOUKTFUL.
... Ho Is 7iiiniirmioe of lie-
" Ur '
purled eliiri- of Chips.
.- .in M irtln I'lnhelro. ltra.lll:tn
.....'..i.'r...rf.l at New York, was In
, i
clln.d to doubt hit' Govrrmm III had
taken possesion of lb.- German and
Austrian merchantmen held In Mrazllli...
ports. He said he believed Itraill would
do nothing of Ibis sort unless ny pre,,,
ous arrangement with th- Gcinian Gov
ernment. He had received no word from
llrazll to indicate nun nny " me r.. ...... .-
Ships, thlrty-elgni ueruiai. -o.i i .... .
Austrian, nan ecn ...r..,, .....
Government.
Joseph .1. Slechta. general agent here
of the I.loyd llrarilclro, which Is owned
by the Hrazlllan Gov. riumiit. said:
I wish to stale that this oltlcs Is with
out any Information whatever aa to the
action taken or use.j . ...
Is true that I nave a.m.-e.i ..... ..
that It would be entirely feasible for tho
Government of Hrazll n reqiiisiuon
vrnnr s mil incori.oiai.. n ...
lliiru . . . . . ....
long
thm in i i" ' " ''..,'..,.. .'...,
...1.1. tim lnniiaire We
l.ll.-io.j
W'o could use not less than six or eight
of these carriers In our coal liuili- from
Norfolk to uranium i'-.
a few more In general cargo r,.rvco b.i-
tweeii New York aim 1110 ne ..an.-
i. i .,..1.1 Unit tlio Gi.rnian nnd Aus
trian steuinshlps In llrazll, chiefly at
the ports of Hlo, San'os. Pernainhiico
and IJahlu, have a net tonnage of about
..AAnn u,..i that their value. In this
period 'of high cost of shipping. hould
he between Il5.onn.0fl0 and lii.rif O.000.
rr-u kl0-0,.Al or ine Kreill nee. m ... I
Hamburg.Americ.ni liner Pliiecher, with
L net tonnage of 7.S92. The other ships
measure from I.:. I t , IT- tons. The
J ...,.m ,.n,. n first class vessel
" ,' . between this port and Hani-
running netwee l nun 1 .
burg, but was plying beforo the war be-
tween Jrluenos Ayres aim uuiiumi..
FEEL COFFEE SCARCITY.
Hkki.in, vU Umdon, Marcli '17. The.
price of coffee has lieen Hteadlly rising
In Herlln and elsmvlieio In fltrmany for
some time. , , , . ,
Tho tlrul llmltall'm of Urn sale of cof.
fee was I'-t I'd" ''ff't t'-day, when
an onler was Issued by wliluU housewives
In IlrandenburK uro permitted to buy
mated colTe.i only In hulf pound pack-
lag.. The retail sal ol unroaHteU cof-
j fee l prohibited.
party In the Helchstag and In the country."
UPHOLD CHANCELLOR.
llatnrlnn MlnUtry Unanimous on
I'lilli)- lo Safeguard eutral.
Uciili.v, via Amsterdam. March 17,
The tlatarhiti Ministry by a unanimous
ote of coiitldence has upheld the IT boat
policy of the liiij.erl.il Chancellor, !r.
von ll.'tlmiiiiin-llollivev. according to a
despatch from Munich to-day. It Is the
Chancellors policy, as demount rated by
his yielding lo Ametlcan protests with
regard to ttie safeguarding of neutral
lives, that Is held responsible hero as the
Immediate cause of th resignation of
Grand Admiral von Tlrplti: as Minister
of Marine.
Time were many signs to-dy that the
followers of the Chancellor In the Helch
stag, undoubtedly n huge majority, are
preparing for an emphatic demonstration
of their miipiallflei! approvul of the Gov
ernment's iollcy on sumbarllie warfare.
Ur. Mill Hethinaun-.IO.Itteg appe.irra
before the Havarlatl Ministry
Wednesday and outlined his ixillcy. The
keynote of his speech was that Germany
must hold out for a victorious peace.
The split among the Itelchstn-i lead
ers on the question of German American
relations, with particular consideration
of the American protests which prac
tically frustrated the new submarine
campaign against armed merchantmen,
now teems Inevitable. It was forcefully
foreshadowed by an article which ap
peared to-day from the pen of Dr.
!nst Hassermann. louder f the Na-tlonal-Mlieral
party.
"Our people." he writes, "are rilled
to-day with an eager longing for a ruth
less war against Ullgland. Wo are de
termined 10 rcJeet UtiJustMed American
Interference with o.ur .ou.luct of the
war."
MERLIN IS SORRY.
l'nf ttenret "Therf Was Xn
Other Wi" Kueressur Ills I'mill
IIkhi.in. via Indon. March IT. Tlie
German paper express gresit regret oir
the resolution of Grand Admiral von
Tlrplti:. and pay him high compliments
for his development of the 1 Senium navy
during his years as Minister of Marine.
The .llorjje""''"'' says:
"Thi re will be universal regret that
circumstance" made the letlrenient of
the Grand Admiral necessary. The rea
sons for thi". and the Inner relations of
atTalrs with one another, cannot be dls
cusred now. but It will be regretted that
there was mi other vmy out."
Admlrul von CapcIIe. the new Minuter
nf Marine, has been the chief assistant
tt Von Tirtutx in nis worn in me aa-
...I .... l.o... Ir. .1, A.1...I...1.V- '
mmiio. - i"e ..e.i.
In various capacities for tlie last twenty. 1
live years,
years old.
He Is a little more than CO
MOHANSIC HOSPITAL
PLAN ABANDONED
Whitman Koaelios Arpemont
Willi Hepiililieaii I.eailers to
Save City's Water.
Ai.n.vsv, March 17, Gov, Whitman
.in() H,.,,iibtran legislative leaden- had a
'"'ference to-day lo determine a pro-
gramme for . ertaln legislation.
At the
, ..... ..
conclusion it was saio iih.v ii .j.-cisiuii
puai aim me i orsiow n ii.-iBms i nuniim
Sl,hool rr lioyH on the Croton water -
.t (e nHtMlrt, of NW Yorh (.ltJ.
0(H(.lll,J T)(. nMly ,111PJ,n remaining
I for determination, It was said, wan the
i terms on which till" abtudoninent should
be tak. n, some holding out for the city
reimbursing the Stule for the money
alre:i.y mh.,i tliere. .specially in view
.fl t)1 fll,, ml, ,.,1V (;vnn vitoeil an
I iibaniloiiiiieiit bill iiefoie worn was ne
gllll at the leqtieyt. It Was (loillted out
to-ilav. of Minor MltclKl. nn-n .11 vanous mines are ooing nm.i-
liei-islon was leached to piss bglsla- IngJy gu'l ork It Is .flluiatnl that Hie
tlon linniiig ov.r to the United Stales number of women w ho bave been mbsti
Govvniu.ei.i Ho qiiarantlne station, with ' '",,"d fr men In the metal trad-s 1
the olli.v of Hialth Otlt-er of the Port of, TT.mi". ill the leather trades 1 1, nun, and
.New York. It was also decided to re-1 In the tiilscellaiie,ii trades i!T 1.000. He.
lain the Slain Nautical Tralnlnir School
for at least 0110 more year, when It la
hoped the Federal Government will take
It over. A bill will also be passed pro
viding that In the case of all public con
1 1 nits for work or maleiials amounting
to more than 1,000 before the contract
shall ! valid the Comptroller must cer
tify that uillliieiil money for the pur
poses c .iiteniplateil has been laid aside in
the State Treasury.
Tlie bill changing the beginning of the
fiscal car 10 July I and the measure
making department heads personally re
sponsible for all expenditures over the
auiounl allowed by the Legislature will
. prob-bly be passed. During tlio confer
ence Hie Governor argued against a pro
I ,.
,"rni 11, . .iiii-i. .". ....iii r.'ii.v ..ill'
ago which would give the Comptroller
audit and control over the, llnaiiclal op
erations of the Stale hospitals ami other
important Slate departments now hand
ling their own flnunces outside tin- Comp.
Holler's control.
BRYAN SEES T. R. BACK IN FOLD
Hill People Will .ot Knllon Into
lllood nnd Mire.
UNi-ot.N. Neb.. March 17. Mr. Hryan
says In the last Issue of tho Comiiioner
' that Mr. lloosevell'B recent Trinidad
' statement was conclusive evidence that
he Is ready to return to.the Itepuhllciin
1 .,! ..11 lb., best terms be can m.iUe.
He says that ever since Col. Iloostvrlt
found he could not build up 11 successful
party around himself ho has been work
ing his way toward 1110 itepunncan roid,
lie will be hack In line this year, get-
ting uny crumbs he ran, but back, no
matter how humiliating Ihe terms. Mr.
llryan lielleves. He would support Pen
rose for President If necessary and would
even l-crniH Humes to write the plat
form says the article. The people are
not ready to abandon theji- high Ideals
and lofty holies for th pleasure of fo
lowing an ambitious glory hunter
through blood nd mlr. la Mr. Hryatva
liiut word.
ENGLAND WILL
BAR IMPORT OF
ALL LUXURIES
Onler in Council Soon to Be
Issued Will Have
Wide Banire.
3IAV K HEAVY BLOW
TO TIIADK WITH U. S.
1.0MION' Mai di IT. Total tiiolilliltliill
of iini.nrtiiii.in inin the Cnited Kingdom '
of u large iiuinlier of articles which came
under the general l,ea.l of luxtllles will
be reed In an Order In Council to be
Ismied In the immediate future.
A .if .-.iilillabi fnp .irl.'fil., tliiml.-ul
ipr
Instrumeiit.. cutlery of all kinds, hard-,11'
ware, yarns, chlnaware, fancy goods and 1
soaps mill be Included In the ban, which '
Is to apply equally to nil countries. In- 1
chilling the Dominions and the iolitil.v,
according to ti forecast given to-day by
Walter ltiuiclmaii, l'rtsldtnt. of the
'Hoard of Trade. Mr. Ituticiiuun ad
mitted that the order would have far
it-i.viiiiiK eueci upon inr .iuei it..u (
port trade, but Justllled the plan 011 the j
.ukm we t ,t'Tiii(.nv;i
A bun on the Imimrtatlon of fresh I It as geiietally accepted as foie-,
fruits, to be established later, will affect ! m' 1 c(.b
the United States only slightly, he iM.iiit.d.j',,,, f,.1',rVa'.epr.cd thrti In the melee !
out. He added that Ilrlllsh Industry li I .iminiir. n nn,L. ,.. ..t ..r...
dlsplavlng a record activity, that wai!'iilllrejn.M muht be held up ,
are higher than ever befi.re and that '
there Is a great reduction In indi-em-
ploymcnt.
liortHMTe of Itlp.
'The Issuance of this old. r" said Mr.
Iluiiclman. "Is forced on the country not
as a matter of pollc but vntliely be.
cause of a shortage In tonnage. We
want exports from the f tilled States
We want vour whe.it. cotton and me it.
and we need other things w III. Ii vw call
no: go; If lh space aboard v. suds Is
taken up with limir!.
"Kvcrythlng iw.ssihle Is being done to
relieve the shortage In slilps, IJverv
ship tlylng the llrltlsh II. ig Is
trollt"! by tlv Government
HOW COM-
Immeiis.- 1
number of th in hav
b.en requlsl-
tloned Others are subject to dhectlon
be way of licenses. No v.-sel is -r- " . 'iininer wrote to Hie ecre-
mltted to emKirk on any vojage wlih.,1"' f "r asking how many men are
out a lloene. available ms a ii.itln.al force with-
"In all the larger Industrie there ha- out the p.i".ige of the Hay bill, cal.-u-,
never Is-eii greater iictlvlt. but the bulk
of tho outout. .if cource. I. for wnr nur
posce. The only trades relatively quiet! Tim answer of he Secretary In sub
are the building, linen and some of the stamc was that the Hay bill was a
luxurv rroducing tnnli-". but iven in makeshift und that It was an attempt to
these there !s little unemployment, the
ri,i,iL. ,...,.,.!.. ..in.... i, ..i,. .
nr.- I
I . I " ."'
other einplovmnit or K
arm,. T,0 ,,,,, f 1
.tie Int.. the
army The .(mount
short time U
comjiaratlvely small.
"The proportion of iinempln.v ment In
the trade unions at the present Is about
one-half of l per cent. In normal times
It I" about o tier cent. The same condi
tion prevails In the non-union trades.
Women Talc Men's I'lm-es.
"Those who have Jolnnl the forces
have been replaced by yuung persons,
men hcvond the military age and large
numbers of women. Longer hours art
being worked in nearly all the trades,
and it Is estimated that this ovcrtlmu I
represents an Itu iease of t iy per cent.
In the number of persons employed.
"A few firms have had to shut rlown,
hut among the active ilrms only T p. r
cent, of their machinery wa Idle during
December. This Is a better record th ni
for peace times.
"H.-caueo of the heavy demand for
labor and the higher cost of living
wages have Increased since the out-
break of the war and nearly all clasn
.,, ,.,.,. -.,i, i ,.., ,,
.".... -
M?M .'''O.niKi p.rsoi.s have reeelve.
,
.vnotii a o.iiini in rsons nave received
- -
, Vwo r . - t h '
, ,,;.-, a m
they reive I
,n example of the. rise In wage
may be seen In the use of the seamen.
ir the got about I IWs.
month and their keep. Now
between CS ifl'il and f x
nis, in., ui) a momn ..nipioee!, m
certain torprdu works rereived an jvt-
age of 2 lis. lllI.TS) 11 we. k beforo
tu. n.(r
Tills lift been ilicreised to
,ii ss. c:.'i.
. .
j ee.l Women 00 Fnrtiis.
I "Wo.iien wiio have taken the pla.e nf
: sides these many lire 111 tb- teiM rpnient
employ, an Increasingly large hotly are in
commercial houses and a great number
are employed In agrieulfural work. More
woniei tire needed binlly on the farms.
Two hundred thousand could be used In
the south of England alone.
"Women are performing every kind
of work which is not bsi heavy for their
strength, In one dim they are making
electric motors. Ill .1 not her they nr.- do
lug all the work In manufacturing - Inch
howitzer shells, Including I ho listing of
tliem. And they are doing many other '
kinds of work requiring the employment
i.f ti-ichliiery and calling for great skill" ,
PLOT TO KILL ROYAL FAMILY.
RnlBitrlnn xrni Mny Re Involved
In Scheme.
.sp'nnl Cahlr D'rHilrh In Tur ."cs
IIoMK, March 17. It is reported here
that a plot to kill the lliilg,iii.iti royal
family his been dlscoveii!, Itonib
hav ft 'beep found under tin. royal pal. ire
nt Solla. Many have been arrested as
11 result of the dls.nvery.
A military revolt Is feared in 1 !-
curlnn official circle", H Is slid, be
,iiise the army and the. -ople h:lv.. Is-.
r .!. war. it I. 1,
come wear of the war, II Is pot known
whether there Is an conntxilnu between
the unrest In the urmy and Ihe plot to
iiSKueslnale tho royal family .
MAUDE ADAMS'S MOTHER DEAD.
fassrs
Away nl Her
llitnie In
Mall l.nUe City.
Salt I.akk, Mmch IT. -Mrs. A1111I1)
Adams Klskaddcu, mother of Maud..
Adams, the nctiess, dl.-d hire lo-nlglu.
Miss Adams was at the bedside,
Mrs. Klskaddcu, known on Hie singe
us Annie Adams, was at one lime with
Charles Frohiuaii In the hitler's early
days u a manager, Later she injured
In t situ plays with her talented
daughter.
BAKER BLASTS
HAY ARfilY BILL
THROUGH A SLIP
Sensation in House When
Gardner Beads Letter Sec
retary of War Signed.
AUT110K IS A-STAFF
.MAX, THK REPORT
WasIiiniitoN, March 17. An army 1
scandal that may result In n shakcup
In the War Department or the army
War College was pre.-lpll.ited here to-
..... .1. . .(. .!.. I ....- a .
result i ine nu.u.i u. -
senlallve Gatdner of Massachusetts In
,s'etl,,g to the House a letter healing .
.-nature of Norton U. Hukcr. Sec
ritary of War.
In this letter Secretary linker takes
Issue with Chairman Hay of the Mlll
taiy Committee on 11 number of ques
tions of fact stated In Mr. Hay's resirt
on the army bill nov pending In the
House lb- cli.iracterlr.eil 11s "fallacious"
certain deductions made by Chairman
Hay as to the mllltaiy Kwurcs of the I
-jjUmi State"
'.,,,,,,.' ,Hl,or t,lUM.,, a s(11,a,,on
iji .Uiifhi fT"' illHI mUillill ! v I tl I I'll I UM It-'B.
llnLrr Not the Writer.
It di'Velnpeil to-night that Mr. Itaker !
j did not write Hi- letter that beats hi" .
signature. It was pr.-parcd for his slg-
and whs signed as a matter of routine 1
by Mr. Itaker on Hie second or third
.lay .11 1, r lie 11.01 i.eeti llulin l.il 11110
olllce as Secretary of War.
Friends of Mr Maker tnslsl that lie
lid mil know that the letter, which was
iiddre""ed to Mr. Gardner In i.'.-isiiim- to
an Inquiry, u:.. written In su.li .1
way .in ti. Invite a controv. rsy. . Tiiev
...'-'- III... .... III. V-..IH..O 'li UV
onbred at once.
.......... ...... ... I ..I Ml 1 .
' " 1 .nver e.n-r if exireme.y muaii ,
1 Me Iink.ir l.-llfp I. ..vlr..i.i. t (l.-fil
or the nay bill as a preimtc.Ui.". tnea-
," "' same way .Mr. llay
calculate." Ill Ills leport.
make an nun) without men. .Mr. Hav
declared in hi report on the armv bill
ulm ..!. into iu p. ui on. e avail-
"" win li tlie mil in passed, in his letter
10 .vir liimin-r ecretar iiaker s..s
that calculating a" Mr. Hay calculates
the fnlted Mate" has l.Ivt.T'.m men
available now without paesliig tin: II..
bill and adds .
"In other wonls, the onl.v Immediate
effect of the passage of the House army
hill would be the Increase of the ngular
uriny by lO.nuo m.u, ami even that in
vi ease, being .ulded III four annual In
elements, would r.qulie about four ears
be ncrnlted nisi . still longer
time to
time to
Ivecome . flectlve.''
The llarl Assilliipllon,
u was nt first assumed that the
linker letter was given out with a view
of letting th- ...untr.v know that lie had
n lallh In the Hay hill and that In the
jinal analysis an army reorganization
plnn such as President Wilson desired
would be whipped Into shape m a con-
fereii.-e committee lepres. nting the two
houses. This was empliatlca.ly denied
In Administration circles.
, in f.ui. soon after the presentation
of the letter to the House, ('hair man
Hay and S. cntary llaker had a lopg
coiiferelice. Afteiwaid it as aii
iioiin. eil that tin re were no illft. lem es
between them and that It was their pur
pose lo work in close harmony.
It was explained to-night that the fig
ures used In Mr. Hay's report viero
ol.li.liied from the ofllco of tbe A1II111...11.
, :...,. r..l. 1.111 that ...iinln .i...i,i,ti,,,,u
,.,, bv him were slightly In enor.
The llaker letter was said lo have been
nrenared by a star) ofilcer connected
. ..Hi, Hi.. War I'oll.ire. who Is K..M It,
b- hostile to Hit- llay bill.
, There Is a sharp dlftcrewv between
.M r. Hl sp.-aUIng ihroiigl. 1.1 repor.
nnd Mr. llaker as lib, views aie ex-
pressed in the Idler submitted 10 th.
House to. day by Mr Gardner relative
lo the potency of Hie llay bill as an
army reorganization measure
Tin- llrnilly Parallel.
Here Is Ihe deadly parallel between
what Hay claims for his hill and what
the Secretary of War Muds the bill pro
vides :
Mr. Hav says It will make 1.3:1. T!hi
men Immediately available. The Sec
retary says. It will add lu.OOi) men to
the regular army in lour or live years
Mr. 1 1 a v says the rrserve ngular
I army will 1- lin.OOO nun. The Sevre.
tary says our preM-nt nscm of the
legular urmy U now only .,",, men,
but that it will ultimately tie lii.iinii
men, whether the Hay bill Is passed or
not: The Scerctarj further s.ijs that
ihe llay bill will iillliiulfly Increase
tbu icseive by 16,000 men, but this In
i lease will not begin to become cff.v.
live until iil-iut Ihr.e jcars after Ihe
passage of Ihe bill,
Thrt Secretary gives no quarter 10
1 'lt.nr., 11111 ll:.l-t. Vt,tl...i:il l'.4,r.l
M,s.,ir-, , 'll.- I',.. i..i 1.1 1. I.',. us;
The only adequately trained men In
the country are In Hie regular nrm.v
ami army reserve. The National Gtiiini,
those who have served therein and
the graduates of educational institu
tions having ml 1 it n r training should
be considered as only partially trained.
Mr. llay estimates that . 711,. 00 former
, " "K"iar" ... ..... ... "'' pan 01
"nr available niiterlal, Ihe .Secretary
regular can be counted usu us part of
s.iv Hi.it only "S'.'.T!i'"i Instead of "To ''On
a? estlmateil ny .Mr. nay would ho av till
able. Alsiut these xS.Tft". the Secrelary
leniarks that It Is unsure to cons der
them im n'lefiuately iraiiud except with
respect to discipline Three months In-
tensive training probably would render
them effective,"
Mr. Hay dechiTcs that In tlie last lei
years 3..,.v.'u men n.ivo passed Ihrough
the Nutloiial Guard, The Secietnry cm
cedes the estimate to be con cut nnd
mills "hut none of these men weie ically
trained when discharged and about two
thirds of them were discharged before
expliatton of term of enlistment when
they have received training ranging
from that imparted in one day to that
ConHiiiitif on Fourth Pagr,
ARMY AT
TO-DAY; DODD'S MEN JOIN;
DENIED RIGHT TO ENTER
CLASH WITH MEXICANS IN
OIL DISTRICT IS FEARED
Navy Prepared to Act Quickly in Case of Trouble
Around Tampico Guaymas Alsoa Centre
of Anti-Americanism.
WA Milt VrtTl 1 J Milt I'll 17. With tllP
f ,..,,..,. ..IallnlllK to ,lllv,. I10
information concerning to-day-s move- '
ments of the I'ershlng expedition !n
Mexico, the Senate to-day passed a con- '
current resolution approving the iur-1
JTr"' "'"""' ;li the
v ... . .... . ,u , r , iillirni .ti... llir ui-
Hon will be carried out with scrupulous
respect for the sovereignty of the Mexi
can people.
The resolution was Introduced by
Senator I .a Kollette after It had iicelvid
the approval of I'nsldent Wilson, Few
' Senators were on tlie lloor at tin- tune,
I and It was iii'tul 011 without d.b.ile and
....... -m
i nanitnoutt t tnipviu ior uj inuin-uiiiir
roiiHltle-nitlnii wuf nhkril fur atnl dIj-
h 01 ot
1( , ... . 1. . , ... i...t.i Il,, l,..t. .
:f,. 1 ,. ' ,,,,1,1 ,, ,U ' ' '
Liter. !,...! ' soine of the absentees
"I'l"'"'"' ;'f'"' tb- vote w..s taken and
learned what lino happen. d, there were
suggestion- for a i.-cmislderatlon. .-.eua-
tor Fal: i f New- Mexico, who has bcei,
1 one of the severest ultics .if the fi.si.
I dent " Mei- an p dley.
xplcsseil the 1
oiiinlon Hint the action had In en too
h.i"ty. He ih eland that had lie been
1,1, the tloor at Hie t.nm he would have
resolution I- ' coiiciirteiit the House is
expertvd to nit on it t.. -morrow.
l iioililco "IIOI.II..II I neerlHln.
Although the Si He Department Issued I
to-day a siatein.-iit ci.ita:h.ng r."irts 1 ironi i.areju stating tn.11 a spiciai
from various pints of Mexico to showi train came out on the lilth from Tor
that there was little app.i-wlit Invtility I r-on and carried forty Americans. In.
on the p.nt of the Mi Mian people toward
th. Arii.-i .. .111 hunt '.t Villa the situa
tion at Tampbo. on tt.e east coast, jvas
.,,.,.,.. nnceM.iln 10 c:.ue Secretary
...,,.,, .,, r,,vr ,. detachment of Mm
llMtlMt ,. I'hll.olclpMa navy ard
e,..1Lo 1 for possible lite In .M-x'ro. '
.. kll,mll ,i,.,t the At-!
. .u. ., , , ,sIMni m.m.o. within !
. , dMimc- of the Mexican coast ,
1 that the battleship Kentucky Is on he:
way from New Orleans to er.i Lrur..
that the I.""" marine In liatl ate
available If meded and that Admiral
w'lnsti.w. i oa.mali.ler In c.ilef of tin
I'.iclllc lleit. Is kn-plitg w.i till on condl-j
Hons aluiig tin w.stioa-t
At iii.s.nt th. I.- an- about I."
Americans and 15u HritlsP In ihe Tarn-
pica oil dlMl l.t. Tt.e .vmeri -an . un-ui
him lepdrtt.l that vvhlb tJi-l Il.lVe been
no ov.it acts there Is consul. t ihle ami-
Alllellc.lll fetllllg alllollg tile MihllelS f
the Cii-!'.in):.i girrison, will, h date- back
to th Hag Incident in Atoll. I'.'H. when
Hear Admiral Mao Ihr. at. ned to blow
up the town II Hie vm.ii.'on nag vviucii
had been Insulted wa not saluted AI-
though the sa'.ntc never has be.n given
'"" i,MIJImm 1 '" ' " " "
still ex-si"
Another area regarded as doubtful In
7,000 IN TORREON
READY TO AID VILLA,
of Distrii'l mtter(
Ite.iilelit
Auainxt Anierii-iin. Says
V. S. CoiimiI.
S.n Antonio, Tex , March IT. C. A.
Williams, fulled States Consul at Tor
reon. who re.i'hed the bonier Thursday
with elghtv.s'x Anicriiiin.-'. lie hiding 11
number of W.UI1.-I1, 1- hen- ..wiilliiic In
strtictliin troin V ,i"hniu'loM.
Me. Willi mis ibcbiie.- be b it Tor
reon not because ol .110 overt act against
his ...111,11 ym but he.Mii".. In- feared
seiioii" trouble ill. re and knowing that
the native n tu.it section are friendly
to Vlllu he deciib .1 It better to be safe
than sorr.v. He said tlie American col
ony was very much distressed over what
they heard and saw In Ton eon and
especially llueats openly made to them
that tiny weie fur Villi and that If
necessarv 11 force of T.niifi tumps, could
1. nrgiiuued In light lor the bandit
lender.
Gen. ruiiston admitted to-day that
I both columns of troop In Mexico in
eluded somf infantry, but he refiisuil to
I s.i.v how til.tiiy regiments of foot soldiers
had cro-s.d the border.
I lie said he was In direit cnuniml
, cat inn Willi 'be advancing fores, but
I that nothing out of the ordinary had
I been 1 .'ported
I ., if,.-,. blue bv
Asked If Ihe troop" wen
night Gen, bunstoii c.x-
' plained that tln ie wen- many mlvaii-l
lages in niovnig large nomes 01 1 roups
In a foreign count r by night without
I admitting dliectly that tlio American
furies were resting dining lln- day. He
pointed to Ihe fact that the night aro
cooler and that It Is not necessary to
have lights to mark Hie way through
the lonely country
Tin- Pershing and Podd roinmand;
are exiiecl.il to Join forces somewhere
111 l -11111:111 una lit a iia.v or iv. ,mh iii.
exact KK'.itlon Is not given out at head-
nnarteiE In announcing the .1 osslng
of forces nf Col George A, Hodd lulu'
Mexico Gen. I' lmston said lie wouni
I ,tvi, mlt hlstor.v, for the
eiiiiiniHiid
..,...,..1 n.n bonier at 1 o'clock Tliurs
, ,ay morning,
, infan'ry Is sonic d.'.'inco behind
1 n,,, lvmln forces, guarding the supplies
jm, ,,f ninmiimlcatloii, while th
Vnvaliv of both comininids I moving
1 o,... fore! maich. s rapidly ahead.
With the Information at hand I do
not expect any skirmishes or hostile,
contact with Villa's forces fur two or
three davs, II then," said Gen Fun-stou
In concluding Ids day's confcicnce with
the nowspaper men.
PKUf IOUK OKKRFOfiT FARM HAIHADK
They cot niors-irr I hem and isa why. Miife
at the Farm. Southborouih. Mt. Adv.
CAS AS GRAND&3
ltM Ilttltllllft fnmilhltUM ffli A Vflilttl f tlftlllM
t.rrltory on the west coast of Mexico
- " -
feels, however, that any iiiill-forelgn out
... ... ........ .-
breaks among the Indians und former
"V1 11' ri'" " iS" l" i vl lo.l .
Mexico the State Department Issued the
luirm lilf. nuilltlllfi
The Department Is In receipt of the
following reports regarding conditions
on the burdr :
A teleram. dated Match l .11 T
1'. M from ICl I'ns.i -tales Ihtit con
ditions there are quiet and that no
Indlirnltli s to Ameilcan have been
ejiried. Also thai reports from the
Mm mmi in the Casas Giandes dis
trht iMilcite tl.nt ti.ey :ue s-ifc and
th..t f:iii"portatlnii, together with am
ple protection, soon will be furnlshul
to tho. who will come to the Isjidcr
A imssiine. dated March II at o
1'. M., from Nog-alts -Litis that con
dltloi . Iheie are nn.listurl.ed. Tele
grjp .le mlvke. dated March IB !-.om
lirownsvtlle, Tex.. Indluile that Mata-inmo-
t. quiet and th il there I." no din
content on the part of the populace.
A lelegiain. dated March 10 nt 9 A.
M . from Monterey v.ates that most
,,f hc Ameiiinns who h.iv.i l-n In
MoMerey hive gone to Texas, hut that
theie has i.ot liein lie Iit unfriendly
d. iniiiittatloii ogalnst the Americans
In Monurey It Is itated that the
officials there are all very friendly
toward Vitierlcan1. Good order pre-
!til, 111 fill, C.!
Tu, j v,;irtnielit Is ill re elpt of a
telegram, ilnt-u .Mar. li 10 at v A. .M..
ludlng Consular Agent Williams. It
Is reported that conditions at Liredo
remain unchanged.
Telegraphic advices, dated March 16,
at 0 1' M from Uagle fas" state that
lb.- situation at' I'ledras Negras Is
quiet. Train? are arriving dally from
the Interior points with Americans
aboard It Is stated that the general
position In the I'ledras Negrns district
is not alarming and that proper cour
tesies arc being extended foreigners as
heretofore.
The situation Is also reported to be
quiet at Mazatlan.
.iibordinate officials In the Slate
ii.irtni.-nt who are familiar with the
M..vican i.ei.nli. declare thnt thee -.vill
bi.-i'lie much .-aelcr If Sunday Is passed
Mtho'i! any outbreaks against Amerl -
can- They point out that riuinUy being
a general holiday throughout Mexico Is
t ie day on which trouble usiialtv start".
Consul Slllln.ai. at yu-retaro. Car-
raiUa's l.e.ulquarler. reported to-day
tb n the disposition of the de facto Gov
.-riitn. tit appears to be to acqulew.e In,
.. Ameiican expedition, it being under-1
1ll that tile force. were sent Into
.Mexico wuu uie uniiereianonig m.u in.)
wouni coniiue ineir aciivuies io in.- soi:
object of pureulng and capturing Villa,
MEXICAN MOB KILLS
TWO U. S. CITIZENS
pfuiii'os Tell of Anti - Anieri -
(11 n (hlllilll-sls ill. ToPI-nilll
and Tiinipico.
Gai.vi.stov. Tex., March IT.- Two
I'nlleil Stales clllzeni were munhied
0:1 1 nincli weM of Torre-in on Monday
nlgi.t. ii'-i-otilltig to American and l.eeign
re'iig,.,. who arrived at the Imrder to
il, i.e ll i- s,, ii,e Anieiican." were
I. 'Med during in mitt-Amc rlcun dcrin'i-
sir.il ..11 In "liich 11 hundred Mexi.-aus
ir, tb-ipited
, , .
I'll. lt tu ,if 111 !.n,.r ..i.i. ,virf lft
at Hie ranch house, when the enraged
Mexicans took up their march tiei'l
ward, lioping to Join some squad of Villa
soldiers. Mexnun refugees declared the
fnlted States' consulate had been dosed
mid Hut the feellrg against AmerU-in
and their interests Is Intr-nse.
That prominent Mexican 111 th- t
chilly of Tampu-ii nre In sj invnlliv
with the cause of Pancho Villa aid ..r.
iisslsilng In Inciting troiibb. am! tl.n'
.intl-Aiiiei lean feeling In the P.inuio oil
Held has caused foreigners, to arm
against any outbreak". Is the subMntice
of a story brought here by A. A. Ann
strong to-dav. Mr. ArniHrong ss-nt sev
eral we. ks 111 T.impleo nlli the oil llebls
on biitlnes" and returned to the fluted
States b r.,11. . onilng ihrough the south -
c.isli-rn swtlnii of Mexico,
ll along the route traversed by hlni
Indolent Mexicans openly Insulted Atuer-
leans and cheered "Viva Villa:" Mr
Armstrong is ceiliilll that all Mexicans
, snmbrahiern Mexico will line up with
Villa
- . , ., . . . ... . 1
ninuaiioi. reactte,, n-r. .n.,g
1 ''' h;'Ve i"-fem bled In sirengtl,
" 1 , "A,, ' " L ','7,,. . v:, "
" r,
nnu' oiganlzetl an effort In supply Hum
wilh arm." and ammunition by water
route.
CARRANZA DEAD, RUMOR AGAIN .
f pee In I Auent ( nrothers liel He-'
purl In 111 I'nen, t
IJt, I'Aso.Te.x., March IT --A nport that
C.iiriinza lias been assassinated was 1 - -
celve.1 hen- to-lilKlit by George f'ar..H.c...
Mim-ijil .tut nt nf the Stiiti li n.irtiiii iit.
The ic,K,rl was not veilried.
On Thursday nioriilng Tin: Sis jtuli
Hilled a ulinllar report from Washington.
Persliin'r randies )reii at
Night Makes Thirty .
Jlile Advance.
1
AIRSHIPS NOW 1)01X0
DUTY AT THE FRONT
More Soldiers to Keen force
Invaders Depart From
Columbus.
CAKUAXZISTAS MAY
BLOCK BANDIT HUNT
(Son. (invira Orders U.
Troops to Keep Out of
Casas Oramles.
3.
Ct-r-MAN. Chlivhua. March IT. The
American nrmy column utnl.-r O-n.
.lohii .1. I'.rshlng has peiU'trulvtl ".uith
to the Janos Itlver ami is covefiici tin
uv crate "f thllty mlh" a day.
No resistance ha." been ni"l vv.th nt
,.iiv ..(.mi and the snidli rs ate 111 '.i !?!
! spirits nt th" litogtes tin y nr. ir.ak
lng. Gui. IVrMiing Is riding 'i 't Hi
1 advance column, which Is I'd "v the
Thirteenth Cavalry, under coinni md of
C..1. II. .!. Sloiutn.
Water sultlcletit for th" horsit M.a
been found so far and from the iio.ut
where the army t now located i wt.l
-.ioi I... dlllloult to get it ns 111- .d ..nil
t.-ocril" south. Water was l!ik.-il in
w-iiuons until th. I loci Grand.. Itivvr
I was remind.
i Arrangement were made vvn.i t lc
I Corralllos Cattle Company and wnr.
Gen. l.'il TerrazaV attorney nt Kl
' I'aso fur suppling fresh meat to tl.i
I troops from their ranches. The men
'have stood the march well. The ma. a
difficulty has been with siipplylii.: the,
horses with tood.
I'art of tii- cavalry and nrllllerv o;
Hip eMi'-illtion nllt nf lliiihlt.i. N. "
I..I. Inltieil th.' rear of
ivrsiiu.i.' s
1 column. The Amerlian nniiv N :-
.n-cteil to continue Its muPii south to-
, i-.rali.l.-s he-
"-m ' '
tore morning. The force is mar . nn
lilgllls aim resting in un- neat ... n..
iuiy.
.... . . ... , ..n
I ILL A . CiKltJ 1 II l '
i , . .
i st v. .a.i.-io nii.ini'.'w
Ills Trnll fiiinid III i;lmoid
llor-e b VinerlcKii".
Kb Pas.i. Tcx.. M-rth 17. i-n.
lYrsidiig nnd his Invading iriny were
reported lo-ulght betwein .llltios aid
Ascension, ninili of Cms.i Grand", a
I little more than half way to ('cis
; Gran.les from tin. AiiiMic.in lioiih r !.n-
: lU ciiinibii.. x. .i.. when, .ntry -.v-
'made Th.y were inirchlng alotn- the
Jan.. I'.lv. r
Tin- repoit .-.inn. to !hr ..lllc of Ct':.
Gavii i. c.mim.indr.- nf the .Uian-. mili
tary g.iiiisui. lien, fi.ivir.i also re
IKirie.l tlmi Villa and his iip-ii vver l."
lie veil to I' bi'tWMii Galeau.'i und San
Hucn.i Veiitiua. Tlie I itt. r place .1
forty-. '.'it uili. s MiiittiiMst of i.nsae
viiaiiip s
G,iii-.is lepoil ot tin. w hereabouts
f l' n-'.mc's mlunm is f. tier.ioy
i ' revlit.-d be. tnlse all A111.1 n nil who lcf.
j folniiil.'is with f.ishing . oiiimiin.;
I anil r-:iirind ..iter 'o tin- bonloi' v.i
' ....
111 1.1 I'.iso tn-.l,i and cinl wncn :tr
left fin Amirican InvmUis estrr..i;.
luoin'iig they ixpciieil t.. 111. ko tlp
f.o.a Grande Itiv.r for 1 iicnniun it
lust iilulii. leaving Micro this morn
ing tin y could hi V- inali. Jaunt, o"
Ascension by to-nighi. tin- tnial i '
taticc being .ilioiit forty miles, fiom
I'ulumlnis
Tin. ill-t. tin letw.'in tin- location ii
t' e Atni'i leu column to-niglu ami th
1. .call. ill ..f Villa .s given by Gen
G.ivlr'i Is .,.nl 11. be .tl. .tit ,1 forty-clgh
li ur tii.i .ii for the Attic; ii 111 troops '."
ll'ey I'.inllnu.- at tin- Willi.' rate the;
luno iii.ir.ii.il -nun. Imv nu 1 '..luinhiis
li.-u Gntra auiiotinc. d to-mgh 1 1. '
he bad wn.d I. lent .i oi li.ivil.i, III o'i.
111, nu I of fairanza bn.' at 1-.1..I-
'Irainb'-. ',.'1 I.. p. 1 1 t ,e nrri--.it
j 1 roop- ,. o , ip 'It.. ,'im .
I The .in, 'o it. me ti,,' 1. 1 1. -led Vino!
' ;J, .,',,' ,) x ., ., ,,,.,,
i , , t...ii Hint ton 1'irslitng. n
, l".n Im: 'iu.tiuu on bn left Hank, h.o
i.Horni.inoii tn.it 11c io'iiu ieiy on .ne
. ' im ,, 1 1. ,1 i nrihi.it .Iii'.i. to t.il.e cl'.r,.
; ,,r ,, ,i,,t . 1,, Hie . n-twatd ..'id w is bend
mi: ill I " . m rgi. on Joining force
wiihc.1 I odd
Wind 1 am., fiont tin- vieMcin cnx-
inaildel
,11 1 Inin. in 1h.1t In wis qultn
liaiidl" Hi"' siliin'ioit there
I... the news front . !u.i 11. 111 in-
,,,,, ,,
! N,w.,
.'bides ..polls ol aalnllts b. im; si el'
lllllill'K III. t.l'lllls I .ll.lt VHiliH.l
1 ill,'.lll,ll' Is about ttill'U nu'e- -olllll Of
1 Vila bn
S.'iiir.. I'r'tutiii'ig.t" "oluiiiluis 10-1I i
old ns-.'ilg.i's pafsljig Ihroiuh tlier..
op fie ti'jin and aii-'v 111- 1u 111 I'i
tills 1 vi luffg tii it pint nf tin- lil. rpiit,
for.-e vmis l.ii t. ii miles 01 1 1. Hp. e,j.
c.iii ''ne "pl.tvlng plnocjilc lit., up
ins-til tliev r-fcrr. d-trt 11 c.Miimiid lcf:
, ,v Gen l'."s tng to I.e. p upon !ti Mtiv
,, , , n , 1 1 1 --. 1 ,r tt inn
M th, p,,,,,,., e;irnK?
' .
O''1' . ""n" reetltorc. ments o'
xniei 11 111 u""v an .1 iv en nicrc iaai.
nli'ltt "id 'n-da nnd hud been sent
south to Join Clcn. Pershing, Nothing
1.
,. .'.'.V hwi.,.4 .-)t'yt,i'iSi'A'.Xii'.-". .'.
2,:au. n--
