j?s -
r"- wnwy ''!"
izxttxtinn
NIGHT
EXTRA
NIGHT
EXTRA
crrr
vol. n.-o. JLGO
miLADELPllIA, SATURDAY, MAROII 18, 101G.
Coriitioni, 1010, i tn Peuo ttDot Courier.
ritlOUJ OKJD3 OEtfT
SSU-1 ".' wl "jwn'ii'iiiyn uumjuawm-iiM1
m
.
fr
ft
PARIS SANGUINE
AS FRENCH STAND
FIRM ON MEUSE
German Assaults Hurled
Back on Both Banks of
River Near Verdun
RIBOT SEES EARLY PEACE
i Teutons Preparing Fresh As
saults on Positions
.i at Vaux
nrcnUN. March 18. The German
'offensive around Verdun has slackened
because of weather conditions, inc
w.r Office announced this afternoon.
On the entire "West front a thick mist
hag hindered operations.
PARIS. March 18. Operations on
hc Verdun front were confined to ar
tillery bombnrdment, according to
today's official communique. West of
the Mcuse the Germans did not reply
to the French fire. East of the Mcuse
there was n violent bombardment In
the region of. Vaux. In the Argonnc
a battle or mines resulted in advan
tage to the French.
PARIS, March 18. Optimism In Paris
has reached Its record marl; as a result of
the crushing setbacks ndmlnlsteiod to tho
nf tim nprman Crown 1'ilnc; on
both sides of the Meuso Hlver nt Wrdun
Latest dispatches from tr-nt nn-na "f
action Indicated that the ". ".mi.n- have
either begun or wero preparing to begin
. a kerlcs of frrsh Infantry assaults ii-g.ilnxl
the French positions nt Vaux. Tho artil
lery Arc in that region has been extremely
violent.
This was tho 27th day of the great bat
tle on which tho Kaiser had stalled so
much. Although tho conflict has not yet
reached Its close every mllitaiy critic is
agreed that tho Germans will bo nnablo
to carry out their enterprise to n success
ful conclusion Tho battle of Vet dun. it
is believed, Is tho turning point of the war.
OFFICIAL COMMUNIQUE.
The text of tho official communique this
afternoon follows!
In the Argonne, In the sector of
Courtes Chausscs. a battlo of mines
, resulted to our advantage.
West of the Mouse wo directed n
concentrated flro upon tho Gorman
trenches In tho direction of Hill 265
and on Corbcaux forest. The enemy
did not reply. '
East of tho Meuso there was a vio
lent bombardment In tho region of
Vaux, It was Intermittent nt other
points in that sector, as well ns In
the "Woovre, on the outskirts of
Moulalnvllio, Haudiomont and Kpargvs,
Northeast of St. Mlhlel, our heavy
artillery bombarded throughout tho
night the Apremont-VlRiieullos road,
on which enemy regiments, wero re
ported marching In a northerly direc
tion. No Important development Is
reported on tho rest of tho front.
Desplto the -fog and the lowering
clouds, our battlo aviators yesterday
made In the region of Verdun 20
flights, in the courso- of which they
fought 32 combats In the air. One
Fokker machine appears to liavo been
the only one hit.
During tho night of March 17-18, a
squadron of 17 bombarding aeroplanes
threw 64 shells of large calibre. 10
on the station of Conllnns and H on
the station at Metz.
The shells wero well aimed, In
flicting heavy damage on tho rail
way, and three tires were seen In the
Btatlon at Metz-Sablons. Though vio
lently shelled on their return, nil tho
aviators reached their base safely. In
the courso )f an offensive reconnais
sance, another of our squadrons threw
10 shells on tho aerodrome at Dieuso
and live on the station at Arnaville.
Hope for early peace was Increased by
the following statement of Alexandre HI-
Continued on Tate l'oiir. Column One
HIT XERXES SUNKEN SHIPS
Bo Greek Naval Officers Believe Will
Investigate
ATHENS, March 18v During the mine
weeplng practice by Greek naval vessels
In the Hay of Eleusls this week obstacles
were encountered which are thought to be
Persian galleys of Xerxes's fleet, sunk
SiOO years ago.
Efforts will be made after the war to
Investigate these sunken obstacles further.
W COW SWALLOWS $300
"rize Guernsey Eats Bills of North
Carolina Farmer
DURHAM, N. C, March 18. John Lay
ton, a farmer near Durham, had no faith
10 banks. Now ha Iirh no faith In cows.
B pna of his prize Guernseys ate ?300 in
iSV , rn me cows," sum i.ayton toaay.
IS. ThflV hoir nn aanafr ...... it
..n .L - . .
..w.v ,.w acai,ci.b iwi IIIUIIOJ'.
THE WEATHER
At last, xvlth the mercury down to 10
aejreea, it has become known to us why a
certain fowl la not credited with having1
very highly-developed Intelligence,
Yesterday a regiment of these fowls
new over the city toward the north, after
lng spent the winter eating lily buds
a warm Southern waters. Day before
yesterday a regiment of them were seen
no; heard) going over Atlantic City,
"wwr places report similar visitations.
je birds are coming North because they
toin that w,nter ls ver and that they
w'U encounter conservative, temperate
either here.
Silly geese I
I FORECAST
cr?ir PKfotelphia and vicinity
rartly cloudy and not so 1-oW tonight
Bna Sunday; moderate shifting winds
coming southeast.
. EOST AND gOTJNP
cotIilfflUv,,i"br snowline bag oa Mr 8.
SUtinff. uli money tlck.t. Utwa
322"LSJJr kamoney V 6TJ. Lds Off
Otktr Uti tod Found Ait eu fate 13
Monte Crispeo.
DR. DWIGIIT W. WYLIE
Called to tho pastorate of St.
Paul's Presbyterian Church, 50th
street ana Baltimore avenue, from
Iowa City, la., where he was
pastor of the First Presbyterian
Church.
'JIM CROW BISHOP
NOT DESIRABLE,
SAY METHODISTS
Conference Votes Down
the Mississippi
Amendment '
HOT DEBATE ON PLAN
Today's Program
4 p. m. Pentecostal service.
8 p. m. Anniversary of Confer
ence Temperance Society.
The "Mississippi amendment" to tho
Methodist Episcopal constitution, provid
ing for negro. Japanese and other bishops
along stricf color lines, was voted down
today after a spirited debato of an hour
at the fourth business meeting of tho
123th session of tho Philadelphia Annual
Conference, at St. James' Church, Olney.
By a vote of 1 57 to CD the conference1
defeated tho measure, which was proposed
by the Mississippi Conference. A serious
split In tho ranks of the conference was
threatened for n time, an tagonlsts and
protagonists of the proposed nmendmenl
giving vent to dramatic (lights of oratory.
It is the same motion widen was voted
down yesterday nt the New Jersey Con
ference of the Methodist Episcopal Church
nt Asbttry Park, when It was lost through
tho opposition of Ulshop Xeely. The pro
posed amendment reads-
"The General Conference shall not
Continued on 1'ace Two, Column Three
COURAGEOUS WOMEN
VANQUISH BURGLARS
BY WIT AND MUSCLE
One Heroine Locks Intruder in
Room He Was Plundering,
Another Knocks Down
Thief and Sits on Him
POLICEMEN DO THE REST
Two women In different parts of the
city took their own parts first nnd called
for the police nfterward when Intruders
entered their homes during the early
hours of the morning.
One was Mrs Charles Campbell, wife
of a saloon keeper at 7th and Button
wood streets. Awakened during the
night by the noise made by a burglar
engaged In the next room In packing up
her sllverwnie preparatory to removing
It. she calmly arose from her bed and
locked the man In.
Tho other was Mrs. nobert Strange,
2073 East Monmouth street. A large
woman with powerful arms nnd opinions,
she reached a strong hand into the
pompadour of an undersized man she
found roaming around her kitchen and
obtained a grip on tho hair close to the
roots.
The man Mrs. Campbell captured gave
his name as Hugh Olllls, 33 years
old. of 601 North llth street
The Campbells live on the floors above
the saloon. Campbell was away from
the house at the time Mrs. Campbell dis
covered the burglar, having gone for a
short walk after closing the saloon at 2
a. m
Although the alleged burglar worked
quietly In the dmlpg room on the second
floor Mrs. Campbell was aroused. On her
toes Bhe went quietly to the door and
opened it tmfllclently to allow her to get
a glimpse of what was taking place in
the adjoining room. She declared that
Bhe s!w aillls was' making a bundle of
her silverware, ujlng an overcoat for the
wrapper.
The. woman shut the door as quietly as
she had opened It and softly turned the
key In, the lock. Then she crept slowly
Into the hallway to get around on the
other side of the room, where there Is
another doorway, the only other means of
Continued on l'me Four, Column Three
VILLA DISCHARGED BY COURT
Namesake of Mexican Bandit Ended
Celebration in Cell
Villa celebrated St. Patrick's Day and
Is a much more sober roan today.
"If you are looking' for trouble, John,
go to Mexico," said Magistrate Imber at
the 2d and Christian streets station this
morning as he discharged the trouble
maker.
It wasn't General Francisco Villa, how
tver, but just plain John Villa, 65 years
old, an Irishman. Like Francisco, he has
po particular home. Late last nlgbt, at
6th and Spruce streets, he announce-! that
he was General Villa and would "clean
everything up." A "punitive expedition,"
with policeman Lagrande at Its head, cap.
ture4 him without much, trouble, after
much excitement
a Thrjilling Tale
U. S. LAYS TRAP
FOR ITS JUDASES
ON MEXICO LINE
Plans lo Round Up Trait
I ors and Mexican Agi
i tators Tomorrow
'FELIX DIAZ UP AGAIN
Carranza Attorney Holds Con
ference With Acting Secre
tary of Stale Polk
WASHINGTON, March IS. Admlnls
tratlon nfflclnls art gravely apprehensive
of troublo along Hip Mexican bonier to
morrow. Advices reaching hero today In
dicate that tho malcontents who have been
endeavoring to causo friction between tho
I'nlled Stnles nnd the f'arrnnzlita com
manders have redoubled thplr efforts
along this line.
Charles A. Douglas, Cnrranza attorney,
called nt the State Department today and
told Acting Sccietnry Poll; that this agi
tation was not confined to Mexicans, lie
Intlmnteil that certain Americans, espe
cially In Ml t'nso. had been openly declar
ing that tho promises made Hint Inter
vention was not Intended and wero not
to bo kept.
t'pon this suggestion It Is expected that
all iigitntora will be rounded up by De
partment of .lustlco agents and arrested.
In as much as Sunday Is the chief feast
day among tho Meslcans, nlllclals hero
confess their apprehension that troublo
may result tomorrow, nnd they have
taken every precaution to retain control
of the situation.
Attorney Douglas In repeating, on be
half of Carranza, promises already made
of co-opcratlon with the American forces,
also cnlleil attention to the danger of
isolated bands making trouble, especially
in tho Brownsville district nnd at certain
points In Mexico on the Atlantic ami Pa
cific coasts. Ho stated that General Car
ranza was taking every precaution to pro
vent trouble, and urged that the Ameri
can forces along tho border do tho same.
FELIX DIAZ BUSY.-
Wholesale deportation from Texas. New
Mexico. Arizona and Southern California
points of Mexicans, believed to be alllll
ated with tho Felix Diaz and Vllllsta
movements, was reported as Impending
It Is known that tho nctlvltles of the
21 prominent Mexicans In San Antonio,
members of tho old Uuerta Cabinet, Gov
ernors of Mexican States under tho old
regime nnd army olIIccrH under Huerta
and Diaz, have been under Investigation
for tho last week and action Is expected
very shortly.
Tim activities of this group. It Is
charged, constitute treason to the United
States Government. There are said to be
more than 400 officers oX the old Diaz
nnd Huerta armies at work. Officials of
the Department of Justice, United Status
Marshal's otllce. United States District At
torney's office and of tho I'ostofflco De
partment nro co-operating In the work of
spotting tho ngltators. Scores are under
surveillance
Special Agent Robert I. Hames, of tho
Continued on I'll re l'lvf, Column fill
YOUNG PRIZE FIGHTER
DIES IN PATROL AFTER
FATAL BLOW IN RING
Andrew Crowley, Lightweight
sBoxer, Expires on Way to
Hospital, Following Injury
Inflicted by Opponent
SIX MEN HELD IN CASE
ANDREW CROWLEY
Prize fighter killed by blow in
boxing contest,
A blpw on the neck preceded the
death of Andrew Crowley, a lightweight
boxer, of 23S! West Oxford street, which
Is being Investigated today by the Coroner.
All persons connected with the right aro
being- held.
Six men were held for the Coroner touay
by Magistrate Pennock at the Central
station. They were Crowley's opponent,
Michael Malone, 26 years old, of 1918
Suiter street, who was held without ball i
Charles Feeney, 2601 East Cambria
street, and John Hasan, 1813 Montgomery
avenue. Crowley's seconds; Frank Me
nagh. 3327 Band street, and Austin Kin
ney, 2315 Adams street, Malone's seconds,
and John Nelson, northeast corner of 16th
and KUsworth streets, all of whom were
held la 300 ball as witnesses.
Crowley, who waS 2? years old, was
felled In the third round of his bout with
Malone at the Nonpareil Athletic Club,
Kensington avenue and Ontario street,
last nlgtit. He died on bis way to the
Episcopal Hospital in a patrol wagon.
Lew Bailey, manager of the club, refereed
the fight.
A light blow on the neck preceded
Continued eu I'ao Four. Column four
of Ad venture -
A S ffef)
U. S. CLASH WITH VILLA NEARS
AS FORCES GAIN IN BANDITS'
WAKE OF LOOTING AND ARSON
Two American Col
umns Join in Casas
Grandes Region for
Pursui of Outlaws
Carranza Troops Also Reported
Near and Fight Imminent,
but Battles Probably Will Be j
Guerrilla Affairs With Small j
Forces in Treacherous Moun
tainous Sections
Third Expedition Relieved on Way
Into Mexico its Two Cavalry De
tails Leave Columbus Funs ton
Asks Use of Railroads Villa Spies
Reported Active in El Paso
SAN ANTONIO, Tcxns. .March 18.
Colonel I) odd's column is now with
in 30 milcH of Villa's forces in the
('alcana district, according to latest
information at General Funston's
headquarters. An engagement if
Villa decides In make a stand may oc
cur within a few hours.
Francisco Villa, hunted by Ameri
can nnd Mexican Government troops,
today is flceinp southward in the
Cnsa3 Grandes Vnlley, burning and
looting ns he goes. Two small settle
ments of Corrnnzista sympathizers
were destroyed, according to messages
to El Paso. The outlaw band is sup
posed to have passed southward from
Son Buenaventura, whore thoy arrived
yesterday afternoon.
Villa is dispersing his forces into
small bands to carry out his plan of
guerrilla warfare in the Sierra
Madres.
The two American columns, num
bering about TifiOO soldiers, are report
ed to have effected a juncture in the
vicinity of Casas Grandes. The Car
ranza forces arrived at about the same
time. Both are now said to be in pur
suit of the bandit leader and his fol
lowers. A clash is expected shortly.
It is definitely announced by Gen
eral Funston that Colonel Dodi's
column nnd Colonel Slocum's com
mnnd have united, presumably in tho
Casas Grandes Valley.
A detachment of cavalry has been
dispatched westward from Columbus,
N. M., and is thought to be on its
way into Mexico. It is also possible
that it is being detailed to patrol the
border.
General Funston, in command of the
border forces, has asked Washington
to obtain permission from President
Carranza for use of the Mexican rail
ways in transporting supplies to the
expeditionary forces.
Administration circles arc "pleased"
with the situation in Mexico, no trou
blo having been reported, except at
Tampico, where there was "a little ox-
12 DU PONT MEN SAVED
WHEN LAUNCH SINKS
Powder Works Employes Res
cued by Steamship When
Bont Hits Ice Floe
Twelve employes of thn du Pont Powder
plant at Carney's Point were rescued
from a sinking "Jitney boat," In which
they were crossing the Delaware Hlver to
their homes at Wilmington, shortly after
midnight today, by the Swedish sugar
steamship Malm, bound here from San
Domingo.
The "Jitney boat" had struck an Ice
floe a few minutes before nnd was to bad
ly smashed that It started to sink at once.
If the Malm had not arrived in time tho
launch ferrying the powder workers across
would have sunk within a few minutes.
When the Malm came to the rescue
the water had reached within three inches
of the upper deck of the "Jitney boat."
where the passengers had taken refuge.
A chorus of yells from the frantic du
Pont employes summoned the Malm as It
proceeded up the rler
Captain A. M. Abrahamson, of the
Malm, had his lingers frozen from ex
posure to the bitter cold while directing
the rescue work. The skipper of the ferry
launch had a narrow escape front death
when he fell Into the rher. He was pulled
out by his passengers, two of whom ha
frozen lingers.
All of the men were In an exhausted
condition when put ashore at Marcus
Hook and were In need of medical atten
tion. So certain that death seemed before the
arrival of the Malm, and so thankful were
the inert for their rescue, that several of
them fell on their knees and prayed when J
. 1 1 l. Ifnln. i
mey reaiuvu ihc 4iiawi,.
When tho "Jitney boat" struck the ice
floe and began to ship water, the skipper
made all the men don life preservers. It
sank so rapidly that they took to the
root of the steering cabin a few minutes
later.
When First Officer John Larsan, of the
Malm, heard the cries he aroused Captain
Abrahamson. One of the men on the
blnking boat was swinging a light and
Larson had one of tho life boats launched.
It was manned by ten sailors, with Lar
san In command. They made for the
light, every man pulling an oar, and
arrived live minutes later
The Malm dacked at Pier C. Port Rich
mond, this morning, three days overdue.
and Mystery in
iXcw War Secretary
Amazes Washington
WASHINGTON, March 18.
Somnolent Washington is surprised
nt the new Secretary of Wnr, Mr.
Baker, becnuso, among other things,
he
Gets to work before tho conven
tional (Washington) hour of 9
o'clock.
Stays always until 6:30 and re
turns after dinner.
Cnn get in and out of his offlco
without the assistance of a kow
towing negro attendant,
Smokes a pipe nnd sometimes a
clgavette.
citement," It was the belief in Wash
ington thnt Villa would never be
taken alive; in fnct, the United States
prefers him dead. It was conceded
expedient that the United States
troops do not establish bases in any
Mexican cities, as such n course might
arouse anti-American sentiment.
VILLA FLKEINU WITH U. S.
FORCES AND CAllRAN'ZISTAS
HOT ON HIS TRAIL TO SOUTH
EU PASO, TexnB, March IS.
Frnnclfco Villa is fleeing southward
from tho Cnsns Grandes district without
waiting to offer resistance to tho Amer
ican troops sent to effect hli capture. Villa
and his bnndits nro hilling nnd destroying
as they retreat.
This Information was received by Gen
eral Onvlrn, the Carranta commander In
Juarez today. Ho was notified thnt two
small settlements In tho vnlley of tho
Cnsas Grnndcs river north of San Buena
ventura had been burned by tho Vllllstns.
A number of persons at each plnco were
Itlllcd.
From the vnlley of the Casas Grandes,
Villa Is expected to work back Into tho
Sierra Mndro Mountains. Iloro ho hns
cached ammunition and food In places
known only to himself and a few trusted
men.
Two American columns advancing Into
Mexico to enpture Villa hnvo effected a
Junction In tho region of Cnsns Grandes.
Thus far thcro has been no fighting with
any large bands of Villa bandits, but by.
Sunday tho United States forces will be
well Into the territory where Villa has
long spread terror.
SPEKD OF U. S. TrtOOPfl.
Tho 7th Cavalry, new in the lead of the
Americans, has pressed forward bv a
splendid forced march. Horses to replace
the tired mounts of the troopers were sent
forward from Columbus early today. That
hard fighting Is expected within n short
time Is evidenced by tho fact that a
pack train of ammunition nlso left Co
lumbus. Another proof that n conflict Is Imminent
Is seen In tho tightening of tho censorship
along tho border To Insure secrecy as
to movements of tho American and Car
ranza troops the United States ami Mex
ican authorities Joined hands. A press
courier with tho American forces dashed
ahead of the troops on to Guzman to file
dispatches over the Federal wires Into
Juarez. Ho was arrested there and taken
back to tho Americans
Tho correspondents who were selected to
accompany the military expedition into
Mexico have been placed ulth the rear
guard of infantry One of tlioin got
through u message dated "Sonio where In
Mexico" in which he asked for n pipe, but
of the troop movements ho was not per
mitted tu say a word.
The censorship is fully Justified by dis
coveries madir by American military an-
Continued on I'ner Vive, Column line
THREE MEN GET $400
PIN IN CAFE HOLD-UP
Take Valuable Article After
Rushing Into Place With
Revolvers Drawn
The first night that William Malamut,
of 21 North 10th street, put In as owner
of the Glenwood Cafo, U3G Arch street,
which he had Just purchased, furnished
enough excitement for the remainder of
his cateer, A few hours after he beenmo
proprelor three men held up the cafe,
pointed revolvers nt Mr. Malamut nnd
about 10 patrons of the restaurant, and es
caped with a diamond pin, valued nt 100,
tthlcli they snatched from Mr. Malamut's
tie.
That their haul was not greater was due
to. Kduard Stern, proprietor of Stern's
hotel and saloon, on Aieh street, between
0th and 10th. Stern caught mie of the
men unauaro and threw him to tho
ground and ran out through a back door.
The other men became frightened anil
took to their heels.
The hold-up occurred at I o'clock this
morning Stern had in his pocket at tho
time uore than J 100 which ho hud Just
taken from the safe at his saloon. Sam
uel Karnes, a retired stock broker, who
lives at Stern's hotel, had several valu
able diamond rings and a sum of money,
and Bobby Morrow, treasurer of the
Trocadero Theatre, across the street, had
about ?900 In cash with him. Mr. Morrow
had just come from a ball given at 7th
and Tiihker streets in his honor by the
Bobby Mortow Xew Year Shooters' Asso
ciation. Two men entered the cafe shortly after
Stern's arrival and drew revolvers. They
ordered Malamut, who uas at the cash
ier's station, to turn over the proceeds of
the cash register and commanded (lie men
at the tables to line up against the wall.
The diners obeyed, but Stern made an at
tempt to get Into the kitchen In the rear
without being observed.
As he (fid so a man ho had entered the
cafe and ordered a meal a short time be
fore drew a revolver and told Stern to
come back Into the cafe. While Malamut
was being assailed In the front of the
store this man kept the diners "covered."
Taking advantage of a moment when
-his attention was turned in another di
rection. Stern tripped him. He and Mor
row lied through the kitchen door and
Into a back street They ran to the
Trocadero Theatre and got two revolve
which Morrow had there, but when they
returned the hold-up men had tied.
Malamut bought the restaurant yester
day afternoon from Charles Cbigbetmer
Philadelphia, Begins on Page
EXTRA
DVLGARS AND GERMANS OPEN
UATTLti IN GllEUCU WITH ALLIES
OIJNBVA, Match 18. Heavy foices of Bulgarian nutl German
Hoops have cuteicd Greece iiom Servin, southwest of Lake Uolinn,
where they engaged the outposts of the Allies, according to informa
tion received here today rrom Athens. The fighting, which began
with skirmisher between the advniice guards, Is leported to bo spread
lity Into a gancinJ engagement. It la believed that tun advaucc of the
Otjipuu ullltu-u ilut.1 ,1lic Anplo-l'icueh lurccj ii fiu-Jlly iiudt'i' wuy
DUTCH STEAMSHIP SUNK! FIFTY RESCUED
I.ONDON, March IS. The Dutch -steamship 1'alcnibnug lina bM
suuk. 'fifty of bev her uw wen; resuued.
TURKS REPULSED ON ADEN FRONT
LONDON, Mm cli 18. Tuiklsh troops, led by thice German of
ficers, attuuked the British troops defending- the Adcu front lu Arabia
u Wurth 10, but -wcte rcvulbcd, Ike Wnr Oltlcv nuuouuecd todujr.
REPORTED SHIP SEIZURE BY BRAZIL UNCONFIRMED
WASHINGTON, March 18. Tho Brazilian Embassy-today said no confirma
tion linil been received of tho rumor that 44 German ships had been seized In
Brazilian ports by tho Government. No Information received horo, it was said,
would InUlcato that such action had been taken or Is probable.
BRITISH EMBASSY SEES LITTLE HOPE OF PEACE PARLEY
WASHINGTON, March 18. Commenting on tho report that Premier Asqulth
would bo asked to say whether tho Government would agreo to e. peace confef
ence, little hope for such action oon was held out at tho British Embassy. Tho
belief was expressed that It would bo "bad tactics" to begin a peace discussion
while Germany occupies as much Allied torrltory aa sho now does. Arjd even,
should pence be arranged now on a basis favorable to tho Allies, It ,1s not
behoved at tho Embassy that "German militarism" would havo Buffered a
sufficient defeat.
AMERICAN NEGRO SAW PERISCOPE NEAR SILIUS
HAVRE, Franco, March IS. Tho Norwegian Vice Consul says ;thnt an
American negro seaman named llnrtman on tho destroyed vessel Slllus has
mndo a statement to him, saying that a few seconds before the explosion which
sank tho Sillus he saw a vertical stick, resembling a flng staff, approaching: tho
ship through the water. Hnrtman believes it was tho periscope of n submarine.
MARINES WILL REMAIN AT
No marines will lie tnken on tho transport Hancock, which sails from
Leaguo Island for Ponsacola, Fla., late today, according to an announcement
mado nt the Navy Yard. Tho vessel will carry an immense quantity of stores.
It was rumored at the yard today that Major Smedloy D. Butler nnd a force,
of maiines, now at Haiti, will leavo there on tho transport Prairie for Guantanomo,
Cuba, where they will camp in preparation, fpr an emergency call for a rush
to Mexico. Captain- Logan Fecland, commandant of mnrines nt tho local yard,
said today that tjiero nro exactly '400 marines at tho League Island station and
that 300 arc needed to tako proper care of tho navy yard.
P. R. R. PLANS $5,000,000 BUILDING IN PITTSBURGH
PITTSHirnGH, March 18. Plans have just been approved by the Engineer
ing Department of tho Pennsylvania Railroad for the ereoUon of a now build
ing In connection with tho present downtown building which, with accom
panying trackage Improvements. 'will cost 16,000,000. These plans -will b
bent to tho Hoard of Directors of the company for flnnl disposition within tws
weeks. With tlio adoption of the plans unci the execution of the Improvement
will como the electrlllcntlon of the suburban train service of the road.
12.1,000 VETERANS WANT TO HUNT VILLA
A trained nrmy of 123,000 men, who have seen service In tho Philippines,
Cuba anil China, Is promised to President Wilson in a resolution forwarded to
vhlm today by members of the Philadelphia Henry W. Lawton Post No. G,
Voterans of Foreign Wars. All tho members of the post, according to the
resolution, havo voted to glvji their services, with ono reservation, In Mexico
should tho President think It necessary to call for moto men. There ure 125,000
veterans of recent wars, experienced boldiers. who. according tothe letter, ar
awaiting the word of the Presidont to ta"ko part in running down the bandit
chieftain Villa nnd hisfollowers.
ENVER PASHA SAFE IN CONSTANTINOPLE, ATHENS SAYS
ATJIKN8. Match 18. Knver Pasha, Turkish war leader, who has been
reported as assassinated or wounded by a would-be assassin, has returned to
Constantinople from a tour of Inspection, according to advices received her
today. Knver visited the Turkish troops In the region of Damascus, the
Mesopotamia!) armies and the forces opposing the liusslans in Armenia.
KWANG-SI REBELS PROCLAIM REPUBLIC
HONG KONG, March 18. The Province of Kwang-SI has declared. Its Inde
pendence of the Cllinese Government. Tho revolutionists havo proclaimed a
republic. (Kwang-SI has an area of about 80,000 square miles and a popular
tlon of 5.000.OO0.)
BRITISH SHIP TORPEDOED OFF IRISH COAST
LONDON, March 18. The- Uritish- brigantlne Willie h.as been sunk In the
Atlantic near Valentin. IsUnd, 'off the west coast of .Ireland. Its crew of seven
man was tvd. Thjjs Indicate that the German submarines have extended
their operations into a new district. They may be planning to cut the trans
atlantic cable, several lines having their termini there.
The Swedish steamship Ask struck a mine near Nord Hinder Lightship
Friday night and was badly damaged. It Is being towed to Hook of Holland.
LIEBKNECHT CAUSES UPROAR IN REICHSTAG
LONDON, March IS. There were turbulent scenes in the Reichstag, accord
Jng to a Copenhagen dispatch to the Exchange Telegraph Company, when fitf,
Karl Llebltnecht, the Socialist, declared that the assassination of Crown IJaat
Franz Ferdinand of Austria at Sarajevo -was clutched at in many circles inijter
many as "a gift from God." The president of the chamber tnrfco called iff w
Llebimecht to order, the dispatch says, and the sitting was closed premafl &r
with the retirement of all members except the Socialists.
PHILADELPHIA NAVY YARD jl
7 of This Issue
.
ynHnaraa
