WEATHER 5r
Arizona Cloudy -4 I
zs
MARKETS
NEW YORK CITY
Average price of cop
per for week ending
March 15. 26.15.
ism
MEMBER ASSOCIATED PRESS
VOL. 18, NO. 252.
BISBEE, ARIZONA, SATURDAY MORNING,. MARCH 18, 1916.
PRICE FIVE CENTS.
1 iw.
U. 5. SOLDIERS
TK0U6HTN0W
NEAR CASAS
OIKS
Gavira Receives WoJJ That
Amexcan Couriers Reach
Town in Western Chihua
hua. Orders Given.
COLUMN FROBABLY
THAT OF DODD
SOUTH OF GUZMAN.
GUZMAN. Mex., March 17.
American troops are already
south of this point, a twenty
tive miles east of the line of
Ascension and Janos. The
American column is not mov
ing on thf route via Guzman,
which si about 30 miles due
south of Columbus, but evi
dently relying on the jrarrison
at Guzman to control the points
eastward.
The-Can-anna garrison occu
pies this city and their com
mander has every confidence of
his ability to preserve order.
fc
MEXICAN BANDITS, ASSEMBLED AT VILLA'S CALL, PREPARING TO CO INTO BATTLE
I , Vv
s in i
. -kki
Great Activity is Had in Co
i i ... wl.m. : v P
lUi.iUU, vviut.il la nit liajjl .
diiionary Base and Chang
ed into a Big Community.
EL PASO, March 17. American
trosps will reach Casas Grandes
at midnight, according to General
Gavira, of Juarez, late today. Cas
as Grandes is a little more than
sixty miles from the point where
Colonel Dodd's column entered'
Mexico, so the Americans have
been moving more than thirty
miles a day.
General Gavira announced he
had a telegram that a courier from
the Americans had already reach
ed Casas Grandes, announcing the'
American troops could be expected
about midnight. The General said
he had wired Colonel Davila, com
manding the Constitutionalist gar
rison at Casas Grandes, not to per
mit the American troops to occupy
that city.
His instructions from General
Carranza, said Gavira, would not
give him authority to let American
troops occupy the city. It would
be contrary to orders. They could
pass the city and camp outside but
they must not occupy or march
through.
1 YET If!
I
Reports to the War Depart
ment in Washington Give
Information that Force Has
Not Met with Villa Bandits.
SOME OFFICERS DO
NOT EXPECT TROUBLE
U-"'.'-M- ,7-liV'- ffr&lcJ't W?lr
!:.-' ... .s- . . ' .s .
r with Carranza, hhows the ban'bt
followers of the utlaw chief as
yemhlinjf behind a convenient stone
wall in preparation for a battle with
the forces of the First Chief. The
picture is typical of what probably
may be seen at many points in Mex
ico toiiay. Villa no doubt is raiinjr
many such bands of patriotic Mex
icans to drive the hater "j'rinj;nc'
out .of the country. His chief ihr.
euliy will be in the lark of arsi:' - -tion
and other war supplies.
s
GCUPY ILL
CONGRESS"
HOURS
National Defense Legislation
Is the Paramount Issue in
Both the House and Sen
ate. PRESIDENT URGES
HASTE IN WORK
Mexico, Generally, is Quiet,
Though There Are Signs of I
T" II .1" l.f
lrouoie ai lampico ana at
Torreon.
SOLDIERS FIND
ACTIVITY AT COLUMBUS
COLUMBUS, March 17. Two and
a half squadrons of cavalry left the ex
peditionary train base hpre striking
in a westerly direction. It is un
known whether they are intended to
reinforce the punitive column. One
report. indicated they are going to help
protect the line of communications
and a portion of the expedition under
Colonel I)odd, which Wednesday cir
cled wectward about 50 miles from
here and entered Mexico about the
same time as the main expedition.
Troop trains, overnight, swelled Co
lumbus camp to what is said to be
nearly the siie of the orisinal expedi
tion. Heavy construction work of ma
ny varieties is undef way. The new
city is rising to become a homelike
and permanent base which is to be es
tablished here.
Reports that several men out on
post duty with the expedition were
wounded by snipers is unconfirmed.
Tt is significant the soldiers about the;
ramp, who come with eommunciation
returning relays of transport drivers
received the information which leads
them to believe the march has been
r.uiet thus far.
Reliable reports indicate the large
ranching and cattle interests on the
Mexican side have offered a reward
of $50,000 for the capture of Villa,
riepd or alive. Officers here said they
hnd repson to believe the immense
offer had caused commotion among
the peons who heard of it in Northern
Mexico.
With the exception of occasional
gossip and secret dispatches over the
wire, the men of the expedition now
somewhere in northern Chihuahua, are
completely out of communication of
any sort even with their comrades at
the base.
The body of First Lieutenant Zell.
Eleventh Cavalry, who killed himself
yesterday, was sent to Baltimore. One
WASHINGTON, March 17. The
main expeditionary force In Mexico
late this afternoon had not encounter
ed any Villa banas, according to re
ports received at the War Department.
Officials Interpret this as clearly in
dicating that Villa is fleeing. It is
extremely doubtful if they will at
tempt to make a stand.
Opinions prevail among army offi
cers that the campaign will develop
quickly into guerrilla warfare, if there
is any opposition. The Senate con
current resolution of Senator Lofol-
lette, declaring that Congress approv
ed the use of the army to pursue
Villa, and giving further assurances
that the sovereignity will not be en
croached, was unanimously adopted
without debate.
Reports to the State and War De
partments indicate tnat coudii ion a,
generally, in the interior of Mexico
were fairly quiet, with the exception
of Tompict and Torreon. At Tampico
and the adjacent oil fields the Ameri
cans are reported as uneasy although
no disorder have developed. The at
titude of the military forces in the
district is said to be unfavorable to
Americans. It Is believed that when
the attitude of the de facto govern
ment toward the foreign action against
Villa becomes known, there will be
no further cause for apprehension.
The situation at Tompico is not new
and It is not the direct result of the
determination of the United States to
capture Villa.
Torreon, for some time, has been
the seat of disorders. Consul Will
iams, who left the Torreon consulate
in charge of the British vice consul,
and returned to the border with a
party of Americans, reported he quit
his post because of unbearable conditions.
OLD CAVALRY
HOUSES
URGES COAST SHIPYARD.
Mounts which Villa Drove Off j
in Raid, Emaciated and Sad-'
die Galled, Are Killed After.
Being Brought to Camp, j
I
EL PASO. March 17. Forty four j
limping, emaciated and saddle sore 1 if.
horses were led into the base camp t
of the army of occupation today,
swelling the list of Villa victims by'
that number. They were the beloved j
cavalry horses of the fighting Thir-i
teenth who were driven off by Villa in
the raid on Columbus. They were
found by the Mormon scouts of the'
advance column "somewhere in Mexi
co." I
Their plight was pitiful. From the I
well fed, carefully groomed pets of
the cavalry troopers, they were lame.
tired and spurred until their hides
were ripped in many places. They
were brought into camp, given a fare
well feed of oats, petted by the troop
ers, then led out to the "plains of
death," where so many Villa dead lie
unburied and were shot as a humane
act of their masters.
Over the military telegraph line in
WASHINGTON. March 17.
Rear Admiral Benson, chief of
the Bureau of Operations, told
the House Naval Committee,
that San Francisco Bay should
have a navy yard "adequate to
build as many battleships as
might be necessary for the Pa
cific Coast." He said, a first
class plant there would be more
valuable than one on Puget
Sound. He did not favor the
$2,000,000 appropriation passed
by the senate yesterday lor im
provements of the Puget Sound
yard.
I RAILROAD OOIID
I CASE ARGUED
IN COURT
U. S. Circuit Court of Appeals '
Hears Appeal of Equitable!
Trust Company in Western
Pacific Foreclosure Suit j
GOMPERS AGAINST INDICTMENT.
TENSION EXISTS
IN PLENTY AT
SAN FRANCISCO. March 17. Argu-
merits in the appeal of the Equitable; $
jTrust Company in the Western Pacific!
foreclosure suit were concluded in the
United States Circuit Court of Appeal, j
'The case was taken under advisement, j
' The attorneys for the reorganization!
j committee of the Western Pacific bond '
holders, denied the allegations of con-i
spiracy on the part of the Denver &
Rio Grande and Wall Street bankers.
He declared that competing California)
I railroad interests were behind the op-.
Inosition to an immediate reorganize-i
j tion of the system. Couusel for the'
I Savings Union Trust Company said,
TOUNGSTOWN. March 17.
Writing to local labor lead
ers. President Goinpers of the
American Federation of Labor
declared the recent indictment
of Elbert Gary oo the charge
of conspiring as a trust to fix
the price, was a menace to or
ganized labor. Com per s con
tends the Valentine Trust law
of Ohio, under which the in
dictment mere returned Is
based on the principle that la
bor is a commodity that cau In
bought and sold, which is not
recognized by the manual la
bor men of the United States.
FIGHTING NEAR
VERDUN GROWS
Anti-American heeling Very';'" n,ees or tne uenver .Contest Near famous Fort-
Strong in Border Mexican intprest ww worll) 130iMM00;
Town. Carranza Consul to the latter on the score that the
Died Trying to Save Lady, jsuarantees constitute an equitable lien
jupon the property of the Rio Grande, j
EL PASO. March 17. Tension be-i"if is ,10 an suitable lien or lien!
tween the two nations at this Dointlnot Pressea certain Donas for Kio
I
Has Dwindled Considerably
Only Artillery of Opposing
Forces Is Active.
LONDON. March 17. Again iu
the cuartel general In Juarez this even I of the border is notireablv sharoer so 'Grande benefit to the extent of thirty
H ... . nipiintiKI T.- t K a aplilUn - f t k .
ing a message ticked off the first defi-. far as Juarez H concerned, tleneral I million, the attorney said. .-,. ,r ,.-., . ,-
nite information about the movements Gavira coupled the announcement o' Tn reference was to the refunding . opposing sides is active. Around Le
af the American column since it the whereabouts of the American adjustment bonds of the Rio Grande, lforf Homme, where furious battlrs
wung across the line at Palomas and troops with the statement
that he
disappeared into Mexico. The scouts would no longer receive American
which General Gabriel Gavira has out ! newspaper correspondents. This lat
ter announcement was later denied by
Gavira.
n-atrhintr fnr tlii- nrptinnrii nf Villistns '
reported that they had seen a great
SPANISH WAR VETS READY.
WASHINGTON, March 17. Repre
sentative Dyer, of Missouri, who tele
graphed the State Commanders of the
Spanish War Veterans asking how
many were ready to volunteer in
Mexico, announced he had received
20 replies indicating that at least 46.
000 veterans were immediately avail
able. The War Department, however,
made it plain there was no present in
tention of asking for the service of
any volunteers.
put 'he last touch of physical condi-
of the chanlsins. an intimate friend of ; tion into the waiting organizations.
Zell's. said Lieut. Zell was worried, Mexicans, coming to the base, vol
fesrin ghis troops were not up to dis-j unteered useful information about the
cipline. Both officers said Zell's j country through which the troops will
troops were among the best. When march. The Mexicans say they be
Zell alighted from the train at Colum- lieve all political factions in Mexico
bus he gazpd over the dry desert and with the exception of the Villistas wel
exclainied, "Great God! Is this Co-'come the presence of Americans once
lumbus?" His fellow offirers did not their peaceful intentions were thor
heed the remark. A few minutes lat-ioughly realized.
er they heard a shot and found Zell It was not learned the shot which
dead with a wound in his head. 'killed Colonel Lopez, Villa's first chief
Life at the military base is animat
ed ?nd picturet;oiie. The roar of aero
planes is matched by the rumble ttf
pounding hoofs as the mountain bat
teries and cavalry troops speed over
tle hard and rocky soil of the nearby
hills on practice marches designed to
during the raid, was flre4 by Ameri
can troopers at 1200 yards. Lopei fell
on the first shot. Much other shoot
ing during the fight was done at a dis
tance of from 650 to 800 yards. This
is reTarkably good piarksnianship. ac
cording to American officers.
cloud of alkali dust moving across the
foothills to'the north and east of Guz
man. On investigation they found it
was the American army of occupation.
Few Americans visited Juarez and
those few returned with word of a de
cidedly hostile attitude shown by the
Mexicans. The children threw mud
issued several years after the Rio
Grande guaranteed the Western Pa
cific bonds. It is claimed the lien in
favor of the Western Pacific bonds
were fought recently, comparative iui
et reigns. The bombardments are in
tern.ittent, there being also a slacking
Proponents Hope to Push Mil
itary Measures Ahead of
Water Power Bill Which Is
Now Pending in Senate.
j WASHINGTON. March 17. Nation
jal Defense legislation overshadowed
j every, legislative issue in both house
! or Congress. The fact standing out
most sharply in the whole day of de.
bate and discussion was that only one
voice was raised against military pie
, pareclness as a national policy, it v.as
- Meyer London, of New York, the only
jy' Socialist member.
i The House completed more than
half of the set schedule of ten hours
debate on the army increase bill.
More than forty members expressed
their views. A great majority favored
the committee bill, the most sweeping
! military measure considered in this
' country in peace time. It may be late
next week before there will be a final
! vote. The Senate chairman. Chaiuber-
, lain, announced he would seek to have
; the military commitfe'i ierfei ted
army bill taken up Monday. Tli
j water power bill must be displaced
to do this. The Presidents appeal
for haste was thought would lead tb
power bill advocates to yield without
a struggle.
The failure of organized opposition
to develop on the floor of the House
led Representative Hay. chairman f
the House Committee, to abandon tie
i night session provided under the spo
j vial rules of the bill.
In an attack Representative Ganlaer
of Massachusetts. Republican, said:
! "It makes a noise like preparedness,
i but it is not a very noisy noise." Ia
support of his figures iJardner read a
j letter of Secretary Baker, the new
, head of the War Department, ques
tioning the accuracy of figures which
Hay sought to show that a millioa,
three hundred thousand men would b
available for a national army if th
House bill was enacted.
Using the same methods of calcula
tion, employed by Hay. he said "w
Miould have available, without legigla
t tion, l.l'SO.niiii men who have some
military training." He presented
, facts and figures to show the actual
: number of military ace who bad aay
.training was 473,000. The severity r
, this official arraignment of the House
bill astonished many. Secretary Bak
er said there was no controversy be
tween Hay and himseir. The var
; iances are due to diHerent opinious
held of the case between th War
College and the Adjutant General's
office.
will have priority. It was declared tb of the big guns in the Woecre dis-
other nine members of the bondhold-,riPt , southeast of Verdun.. Northeast'
ers" committee were asleep with tfcn of tfc fortresa, around Douaumont and MEXICAN LABORERS RECALLED.
exception oi me representatives i Damlo. tie German are hurling,
these banking houses and also Jude Shells and the Frenc h vieorouslv mnn.
The cavalry scouts were riding in op-. at the Americans and shouted in--Van Fleet of the United State District . tfrje
?n order and making observations
from every sandhilr as the Mormon
guides pointed out the familiar loca
tions of the desert country. Behind
the scouts about one half mile, the
Carranza couriers said they saw the
main body of I'nited States troops
plodding across the deep sand, with
the wagon trains and pack trains
bringing up the rear.
At Columbus a Held hospital is be
ing fitted up with tents, cots and op
erating tables in preparation for the
wounded, who are expected to come
out of Mexico with the first conflict:
with Villa's forces. In F.l Paso the
Red Cross, w ith it
MEXICO CITY. March 17.- Mexican
laborers in all parts of the I'nited
suits. Customs officials said they Court, who ordered the Rio Grande ta SoriU of Verdun on the right bank States are called to return to Mrxic
heard scattered shots in Juarez in thebe a defendant in the foreclosure suit. !8f tne Metise. the German ammunition in a d"'r" issued by Governor Mor
last two nights but were unable tojbrought by the Equitable Trust Cocn-.po, wast Down up by French guns, a'"8 of "oahuila. former private secre-
pany. j There was only one infantry attack on Ur' of farranzs- Tn' ?"vernor says
me oonanoiaers oi me western ra-j,be Mtir(l linPi north of ,he Aisne.
cific are those who joined the reorgan- j vbrf, tb, Germans were repulsed,
izalion plans when they wake up to; Constantinople reports the British
find Van Fleet had saved them J..0.-:in Mesopotamia in general retreat in
000.000 and will seek to thank hitn asjhe FeMr reCion ,nd tIie Turks in
an attorney he asserted. It was from hot Dursuit
ascertain the cause.
PEREYRA SAVED WOMEN.
EL PASO. March 17 Jose 1'ereyra,
Carranza consul at Columbus, who was
killed by Villa raiders, met his death
trying to save the lives of American
women, according to the story of Mrs.
it is the time for all Mexu-ans t
leave the northern republic and aid
in the patriotic work of reconstruc
tion of their country. Any number
can be taken care of at good waes
md under fair living conditions.
husband wasan or1er of Van Klee, kin tbe Hard fighting with little result, be-
W. L. Ritchie, whose
j killed under her eyes in their hotel
' at Columbus.
"When the bandits broke
: hotel." she said. "I and my daughter
land other women, ran into the corri
numane instincts. . , w j((ine(1 b ryr(.yra. who
is wrapping bandages and preparing , steppod jn from a8 thp villistan rush
cots for the wounded Mexican! who Uin, .(u,v ..,! .-aitoH Mun't ihimt
may be sent to the border for tieat-jwe are a Mpxi,.an8 here.' The band- Responsibilities of the Rio Grande in
ment. They will receive the same
iranue a party to tne mreciosure suit . tB. ,iians and Austrians. es-
jin order to construe its obligations . pj,,,,, in th, Is0,-0 reRlon rp.
lth.it the Fmitahtp look one of iti nres ! . - -m - .
into tne I - -jiwri. mrrr is nine oi importance
em appeals to tne . ircuu . oun. iDeton Russiari front. Petrograd re-
..ouitaoie contenns van rieei nan no,por,8 ,.- of ,hp ,own pf VaI.
right to do that arbitrarily. Van Fleer ,kHunatan from the Turks. Sixtv miles
also enjoined the Equitable from pro-; ,)f Krzerutn on the Euphrates riv- i
seeming; the suit for accounting of th er '
NEW CABINET PORTFOLIO
' i
treatment as the American soldiers
who are wounded but on recovery will
be turned over to the Carranza author
ities to be shot.
A Mormon rancher at Las Cruces.
Chihuahua, arrived here today and re
ported that Villa had pased his home
n the night making forced marches
and driving his men on toward Santa
Ana and the Buena Ventura district,
where they expect to make their last
land. -He was carrying his wounded
' (Continued on page 7)
its seized the women and dragged
them to the light, one by one, saying
to each 'this one is a Mexican.'
Pereyra bravely insisted we were,
and should not be molested. It was
easy for the murderers lo see this
was not so. The American soldieis
were coming up and the bandits fled.
the federal court of New York.
"AI the so-called parties to this plea !
for an immediate sale of the Western
TAXES A LA-CARTE.
LAREDO. March 17 General Pahl
Gonzales, commanding the de fact
forces in Mexico City, has been named
minister of communication in the Car
ranza cabinet, now in process of for
mation. Carranza is still at Quaretarti
but expects lo leave for Uexico City
March 2.
MEXICO CITY. March 17 Plans MEXICAN STABS AMERICAN.
Pacific are nothing other than Rinjfor opening stations for the receipt1
Grande." said the attorney inter vener. !0f popular subscriptions for the liqui-'
BROWNSVILLE. March 17. John
" . Idation of the Interest debt were de-! Lighburn. an American, stabbed and
STUDENTS "STRIKE". I cided by the committee in charge of, probably fatally wounded in an suti-
AMES. Iowa. March 17. The ni-' raisins revenue. Other cities will be ' American outbreak at Point Isabel.
ilrace-in? Perevra with them, kii kitur i neertng students nf the lows State r f ailed upon to follow a similar plan.jTexas, thirty-five miles below hene on
and abusing him. As his body was I College struck in honor of ftat-.The rmoinoters hope to raise e'glU the rulf. He attempted to stop.
found over the border. I suppose tbev I rick. They "rushed" the- downtown ' huiKjr! nuMon pesos by means of Mexican making an anu-4encn
Intended to make him prisoner but picture theatres, uierw wa .no inter, j
the pursuit was too hot and they shot j feretu e from the police and no injur-him."
ap-.''Hl stanjp taxes, public entertain- speech in Spanish and received
trmnts and pledge of
lions for four years.
weekly liona-i wounds in a resultinp flcht.
the
Mexican was arrested.
