Kjfcr
HABA
vi'oday*sNews
tMg
Today for Tomanow
ItWiUBeHistoir^^
W'.
VOLUME FORTY-TWO
Two Expeditions Form
Junction and Reach
W Casas Grandes.
:NOW THIRTY MILES
FROM BANDIT LAIR
Wills Believed to Have Taken Refuge
1
in- Mountain Fastnesses of Sierra
Madras, On* of Wildest Regions in
All Maxioo—Mexican Citizena San
aative Regarding Occupancy of Citiea
or Towns by U. S.r Soldiera.
El Paso, Tex., March 18.—American
cavalrymen were camped at dawn to
day at Colonla Dublan, near
Casaa
district twenty-flve miles
^1^5.The-news of the encampment at Col
dPST^nja Dublan dispelled fears of any dis
putes with constitutionalist authorities
over what position the American troops
should occupy at Casaa Grandes. Mor
mon scout outriders dashed into Col-
z&'ts&zsrxsr*'-
io io» "J" .v
recruits and information as to
movemenu
ju)4 Ccrionla.
•Sscrfony of Mormona *t Colapli^ub- ^Lw^f^J^the8bwder
•Man^epi
latcmca9r^e Wn*
mnvafi T-itr"
les whose military value was small.1
Ai'nw Carntuza auihuritlis are net
giving up their sovereignty it Is a
problem with them to break this tra
dition and permit American armed
forces to occupy citiea.
In making his announcement that he
Thlnka Oriala Past.
General Gavlfa, Carrtuiza commanfl
l^pfcr at: Ju^res, ln a- statement given out
today to the Associated Presd, de
the crisis ln the*relations
Utile more than half ,way on the route
to Casaa Grandes,
Two Commanda Joined.
Something of the strategy of the
daah on Villa's trail adso was appar
ent The Hachlta column actually
made its start from the San Bernard
ino ranch, which Is within the little
square' of territory, about the, size of
a large' county, where the state of
New Mexico extends some forty miles
south of the east and western bound
ary of American territory. The flying
cavalry command of .Colonel 'Dodd
Was able to take a direct course for
Casaa Grandes, a little more than
sixty miles of march.
The main column at Columbus, N.
M., starting from a point a consider
able distance farther to the north, did,
not go directly south but apparently
steered to the westward to get Into
touch with the cavalry command from
Hachlta.
No Base at Guzman.
Guzman Is an Important constitu
tionalist government town, about
thirty miles south- of where General
Pershing entered the country.
Grandes. They arrived In the night. Stanford, who arrived here today from
Thru Colonla Dublan runs the road to Guzman, said that early yesterday he
A young American, the son of J. P.
was
distrust twenty live «*.» _oIumn
the Galeana
southeast, where Villa
Itely reported.
The refugees who thronged the bor- ^e five Mwdcan new^aper^or^i,
dw to^ are-InslsteiU that the first Paso, closed within the PMtweeK.^re
bloodshed will be the signal for serious expected to
If for military reasons the army of mons, who
General J, J. Perishing should feel
lng the ^Mexican fence of national pride
of the Voody batUes of the last 'our
lh Hexlob were fought over clt-
Tcon nio uiuwu auu utu*.
was "rpaased anil there was no fear
farther trouble.
"'We have passed the crisis,'' said
rl^Ji-rJSOetteraJ- Gavlra, "There Is no ques
,tlon that' the situation was very del
ioerte aiid even Berlous for a while,
.-m-filWrt that Ja all over now. The Car
government has .shown Its abll
:ity to control the people.
Tjjo ftot wish to be understood as
any way -approving the entry, of
T'jfUn^rtcan troops on 'Mexican soil. The
l&istraint shown by the Mexican peo
ple la due solely to the confidence
sy have In the first chief. The Amer-
Jean peopl® must realize the aignlfl
^"^c4nce of the passage of American sol
-^dlers, ppwfiifl&iarge a part of Mexico
rlthou£-^»ng Molested in any way.
It''itlfcuta: :to^ Genial
flMift^Kfe dlrwSt frohif^Texldo^and
i^ifffeirtil i^aout^emM from ^Major
to-fswr
»to do#® epoomunloatlah
Informed that the American main
under
last defln-
Menaced by Bandits.
One of the jreal menaces the .Amer
icans are leaving behind them comes
from the bandits of no party affilia-
m,Min with the news tion who operate singly or In groups
t^'A^erlcans were near. of two or .three. Severn! ox in*»e
Cavalry First There. highwaymen were located In the
The column which was first Into this mountains In the vicinity J3"*™""
important American settlement was When seen yesterday they did not of roreiKi)er8
•aid to be the cavalry from Hachlta. ff_rAB „f ^ii^er
Communicatlon8
Iff. -M. Casas Grandes la-twenty-flve JJ watchfulness of Reports today continued to be opti-
There bu been no reliable report as at'whatever^They SUSPICIOUS OF CARRANZA,
to the exact whereabouts of Villa but 'slap dash raids at wnatever iney
"»arf WhOft the exiedltlMi btis passed W8lfr4|^jSt»rWern Chlhuaihua, ana ac
Ibeacefully thus far into Mexlco,: Mid cor^ln# fctatemeht last night an
tho' Carranza officials- have ayolded 'other ftt.flOO 4s offetfed thru. Colonel
friction, the tension along the Rio Slocum, commander of the Thirteenth!
be a. weak and
m.n+
Mr.
^iJut^ary I of
resume
trouble rHpWever, thus far the border dlately.
la very successful. El Paso Is espe- A wpman b^Roon expert of-^Bl Paso,
dally so except for the factories, which Mrs. Oharleii Ooll, today, offered her
•V are working night and day at full services, alorig, with her husband to
blast. I the ArtteHean troops in taking captive
v: capt. W. D, Green, the night chief ballooti observations.
of police, stated today that h« had .. Mexican giving hte name as
itever known the city to be so peace-
1
iftl and so free from crime. derson, Tex., On suspicion that he was
Mexicans Touchy. the leader -of the band which held
||f A new problem' faced the American Juan Bilbao, of El Paso, for $1,500
troops In Mexico as they' entered the ransom, early this week.
region where Villa's trail Is scarcely Colonii Dublin Mere Village,
three daya old. This. problem came Normally the American population of
not from the Villa chase but from,the the Colonla
tt Is believed he has taken ref^e in jServiiifl of -Notice of Opposition to' plans for tropiMnovements, statements
the fastnesses of the mighty sierra these nrofesslonat! Occupying of Towns Disturbing. regarding: t&e strength of forces,
Madres, ono of the wildest regions In aeemi to be- well recognised San Antonio, Tex., March
18.—Gen- photographsjaC
positions, etc.
all Mexico.' The people of GuerTero, at least, so that if they era! Gavlra's reported refusal to per- signed to ^^ent the giving out of
are said to be followers of the fugl- onally^ clash with patrols suoh mlt American troops to enter the town unauthorised: Information and places
tlye and he can retf on them for foo£ o^sionally dash witn
ViUareal has bf en arrested at San-
Dublan
attitude of the' Carranza- authorities community with a.central stores and
that they did not wish the Americans residences, is about 200. No. details of
to occupy/any city or town. the trooptf reception from the Mor-
hove
than a
compelled to occupy a "city the Amer- here
leans would be in-some danger of cross-j colonla
ar& sixty
& stn one of Its strongest attributes. itj,e Mexican bdrder at San Bernardino,
Occupation of a city among Mexican
Tbe road
soldiers and to the mass, of 'Mexican the Galana ^lgtrlct ii( well defined and
people Is the sign of sovereignty. Some
8Q far
It
of CftJMU,
The arrival of^ th^ expeditionary thru lines' of Amer- Th# announcement 'of .. General suppressed.'*
forces* in the vicinity of .Casas Graiides
Vi Nj
was greeted along the border with a Water h«a leen more plentiful than had arrlred at the outek^ts of CaSas'
Capture.
CJE."IS,by
daya Since Villa was last
definitely reported sO,that he may now
be 100 miles or even:
more from iue he^a
of the pursuit column.
Mora Soouts Called For.
There was activity today along the
border ln securing Siore scouts for th*
Mked Americans "not to enter Casas American troops. This was considered
Grandes, the city whose possession significant in" ylew" of yesterday's an
means safety to the Mormon colonists nouncement from Port -Sam Houston
of that region, General Gavlra ex- that General.. /Perching may have
presaed no vexation at the presence of! reached the point where he can redl
troops In bla territory but hfe was very vide hla forces.
firm lit hie announcement that he had! Newa that the constitutionalists had
not,power to onodlfy orders to his
troc9s to prevent'the occupation of olt
109,
fought two battles'lh-the Torreon'and
Durango districts With VlllaUtas and
"pa^^t^" ^eaphed'|iei« today.
COAT BUTTON JS
reaohea Cu«s Grwoes
rAbch-
_. .. Vrry,. newsbaners of M' was believed that .General Pershing indication of opposition to the stance
publication Imme-'
district,.a farming
been in psrtl for more
week- from -Vljla, were received
Dublan
and Casas Grandes
miles as the crow files from
from the Mormcm. polony into
Known Were is open for a
qulclt dash for_vili»
j,
86Veral
ft
AID TO MATRIMONY
Automobiliat, iPunofurf^ -Tlre and
Thereby Ftoda a Wlfe-MSrowa Senti
mental and yKahfaa^, Teacher Re
apondt Wlth Equal Pe»*vor.
Gkrdner, Kan., Mardt 18.—James H.
Newston, bank«r of Wllllamaton.
Utah, punctured his iSbj^tmoblle tire
near Sdgarton recftntiy i^nd,. had to
walk to town. On-the ir|®r^he found a
button from a woman'afcidat. He wrote
thfs note and hung It AM the button
on a fence po#t '•ff'sft-Pt
"The owner ot this button has fouffd
a plaoe ln my heart."
4'
Alum Bltsworth, school teacher,
owner of. the buttbn, fdund the note.
She took the fyltton gad left this mes
aage:
'Tomoirow this button wUl be worn
sra^[ lntrodne*l io tjia feiuilW, today
*r
No Clash With Carranza
Over Question Raised
by Mexican General.
POINT CONCEDED
BY WASHINGTON
Reports* here that Pershing's army No Object to Be Attained by Taking
I intended to establish a basej at Gus
I man were .discounted in dispatches
yesterday that Guzman was still held
by Carranza troops and that the.
American columns were marching
about twenty-five miles to the west
ward. This would put them very
close to the cavalry commanded by
Colonel Dodd.
Potaesaion of Mexican Citiea—Last
Roporta From General Perahing Give
No Indication of Exact Whereabouts
Continue Hia Shifting Flight.
Washington, March 18.—American
troops pursuing Villa and his bandits
have no orders to occupy any cities or
towns during their march into Mexico.
m#nt
neral Pershing al- ...
other towns.
It was declared that the pursuit, be
ing a punitive expedition, had none of
the characteristics of an invasion and
there was no object In occupying towns
or cities- and' the troops will keep con
atantly on the move.
Officials said today- the situation at
Tampico, where uneasiness is said to
exist among Americans and other
foreigners, had no bearing .on the pur-
8"^ of Villa.
communications .. ... ..
___
be.content
of Villa—Believed to Bo Planning to publicity the more deaths of American
soldiers. This expedition is a test or
preparation. We have also a chance
to test the power of censorship. If wo
ever got into a big war .the efficiency
of censorship would be a-llfe and death
matter to the,natlon. I regret to say
some of the correspondents have car
ried matten^censored here to other
stations for transmission. This must
and shall stop,"
This was stated at the war depart-
today after receipt of word that
column under Genial ~t General Gavlra had given notice that
ready was well to the south ana west
of Guzman. Some Americans left General Pershing's troops would not be
Guzman for the west, he said, to see allowed to occupy Casas Grandes or Columbus considered it Is losing noth
the American troops.
urisuspect- I statement, 'Covers the disclosing of
Fort Sam Houston todas^ of the .'full
g^anford said he had come out co-operation of the defafcto govern- Ration. In this way newat^t might
iMextco via Juares because he hear« ment's forces. hamper the jpaovement*.«f troops
Not to Make Issue of-Point.
vWhat
revived doubt at direct^ in the hands of the officer 1.,
command
Gavira that General Pershing's troops!/ The statemea
0f
General Pershing "Intended to
Fun-
expedition Into Mexico. make an issue of the point. Here, it K1 Paso. Tex., March 18.—The
to. remain on ttofe
proteqt Americans there. ..
The last report from General Persh
ing did ndt Irvdicate the exact locatlori
of Villa. It js believed he is ln the
Galeana district, but it is expected he
will continue his shifting flight.
that the force halted there is a cavalry
detachment ..sent forward "by General
Pershing under Colonel' Todd.
It's Up to Perahing.
which the passing thru a torn might
be regarded as a military neceBqitaf.'..
received no official conlirrtjation of the
The work of organising the addi
tional forces that have b*en sent Into
Texas and New Mexico ^taa continued
ATm^ny places on the J§qrde£ where
the population Is largeiy^exicjin ap
peals have been made for wotectloh of
troops,
The garrison at Nogales Will. not be
materially weakened. alj^ the re-'
moval of one company if Infantr^
brought a protest to Gen4fal! Funston.
riOPTING NEAR CA|TlRl«T08.
Villa Foroa and Carrania ikagufara En
gage in Battfi
Torreon, Mexico., MartdbJ IS.-^Flifht*
lng has been in progresijt'since etrly
yesUrd(iy mbrhlrig betw'een cbn«iltu
tlon&llsts and Villlatas |e. CaHlstps,
near Noe, which la ln the'^rreon dis
trict. News of the result,,/!* tht'biittle
is not expected to be avwl«4gej l)«tbre
tomorrow.
The Villa commander ft a&td to be
Juan Madrid, and also* p6^b&-C&*W
Reyes Is wlth-hlns. ,.,
salable reports
eonatitutMjsai
Df
the to^n unUas cwne ln tUe nQW8 that
enters the town or not Is for General, can military base. They said fresh
Pershing to decide, said General Pun- troops were being sent forward across
ston today. Unless otherwise In-| the bprder both night and day and that
*15
JKARSHALLTOWN, IOWA, SATURDAY, MARCH 18,1916
Newspaper Men Who
Violate Censorship
JS to Be Punished
Col umbiMt March 18.—New
orders warn issued today holding every
Correspondent responsible for his dis
patches uhd*r the national defense act.
Criminal to 8acura 'Sooop.'
"The man "who gets a 'scoop' Is an
archcrlminal," said Major Semple,
commanding officer of the Columbus
camp, today, "and I have evidence
enough to bring several under the fed
eral law."
"American soldiers" lives already
have have been endangered by viola
tion of the act," said Semple.
"These betrayals of our movements
have, qf course, reached Villa, who
naturally has taken means to make
himself more elusive," he said. "This
means the extension of our lines and
extensions mean- death to American
soldiers from disease and other causes,
and American soldiers are American
ctrtaens the same as civilians. The
American papers should know the more
Columbus-is, taking a rest today after
a spell of ittjtivity. This Is accom
plished by entire absence of sensational
or alarming rumors. At the same time,
lng of its prestige and Its shops
and billiard rooms continue to hold
soldier*' custom.
Logan Notified of Order.
Des Moines, March 18.—The adjutant
general's office headouarters of the
Iowa National Guard, today was notl
fled of the order issued to newspaper,
correspondents at -Columbus,. N. M. I
order as being a part of the military
J^code of laws, designed as a protection
XoTtroo'ps movements.
I 'The national defense act," said the
It is
the American forces by Yillistas
The burned bridge was on
Northwestern railroad between Sum
mit and San Pedro and directly In
line of the advance of the main ex
peditionary force, which, started from
That General Pershing la. personally Columbus, would strike the railroad at
with the troops that were reported to Guzman, forty miles north of Corralitos.
have arrived at Casas Grandes was The bridge was built on low trestles
doubted. It was considered'more likely
Whether the American troops that Arrivals from Columbus today re-1
arrived last night at Casaa Grandes ported Intense activity at the Ameri-
structed, General Funstort. is ljot. dls- one aeroplane had already Joined the,ajn
posed to Interfere with the 'operations forces in Mexico. I plans, It is fa id, were vetoed by Em-
of General Pershing. Seven other aircraft are circling over
General Funston, however, was In- the border constantly on scouting, ex
cllned to believe that General-Pershing pedltlons.
would not make an lss.ue of the
declaration of General Gavlra.
Our forces," said General Funston,
How Many Man Haa Villa?
With the practical certainty that the
_i... American soldiers'^Had at last reached
•'have no Instructions to .nccupy any £ho yijja territory, the questions of ab
town, but the situation might a^lse In
8orb|„g
0f
Speed Surprises. Fuqaton. o^ndes region assert that the peons
General Funston this afternoon had
last night was a surpijs« to the offl- ^atever
latest reports, from General J?ersh|nf.
1VJ
de-
th& control or news dissemi^
General Pershing's troops^ The statement added thati»nalty veUoment
W.OOO fine *or a .y«—aiUes.
in so far as the fate of I™**" Grandes and planned to enter duritig: ^a^iirtoth. .to.' provided for, viola- Q^,...
Movements of Troops. irtKicrfM»ni» so that it can
a O S a a a a a a
fcy^aei^ F^on mrW3oJa f, H„ \m I
at the outfekttts of CaSas' of 11,000 fine Tor a yea*3*-Jsaprlrron-
11
W was known thatt »eneYa£PiiShlng •th0!Ste«fc«)tfap of a dispatch filed otf Wednesday.
was pushrnfi[ hls_ c«?lurtari ^n« Banuelos and Mlgilel ^Ber- It is said these operations are so ex-
ai„andez
VILLISTAS WRECK BRIDGE.
OF WAR REACHED
End Qf Titanic Struggle is
Near Declares French
Minister.
TENSION RELAXED
IN FRENCH CAPITAL
Rapid Development of Event* Favor
able to Alliea Expected at Paria—•
Fighting Around Verdun Leaa Vigor
ous According to Both German and
French Reporta—Losa of Position on
Dead Man .Hill Denied by French.
Since the mass attacks of Thurs
day night against the village and
forts of Vaux northeast of Verdun,
the Germans have not advanced at
any point on the defense of the
fortress, Paris announced today.
Last night passed without in
fantry attacks and even the artil
lery activities are described as
light.
There appears to be increasing
activity In the Balkans. Heavy
troop movements In Bulgaria are
reported.
An official statement from Con
stantinople, says Enver Pasha,
Turkish minister of war, has re
turned to Constantinople from a
trip of inspection to Syria, Pales
tine and Arabia.
In a statement. issued subsequently, Paris, March 18.—"We have reached
Adjt. Gen. Guy E. Logan explained the
thg dectgiVQ
ni?ht
interest on the border is how
inany men haB Villa antf wU1 ho flght
run? Americans froln the Casas
there
are certain to support Villa,
pal.tiy
arrival of the expeditionary force at Mj-tiy thru the glamor of his reputa
Casas Grandes. The western-column
tliru his system of terrorlssi and
a warrlor.
under Colonel Dodd ,,lad C^saaGrandea enrranza officials here and in
as Its objective but Its arrlvar ther^
Jlmrez lnalBt that
was continuing Its march without in- g^rra Madres which he knows by
terniptlon not ,far north^eat .,of thfe j,eart
advanced cavalry force. .. .,-v
1
Appeals For Proteatlbnu
villa has disbanded
men
clals here/ '•"Jt4 J. will not offer to flght but will rely
The main column, according to t(r gafety
he had with him ««d
0n
aiin08t
his knowledge of the
inaccessible mountains of the
PORTUGUESE AIRMEN
EXPELLED BY U. S.
Not Permitted to Continue 8ohool at
Government Aviation School Owing
to Declaration of War by Germany.
Four Officers Being Trained.
San Diego, Cal., March 18.-—Four
Portuguese arm^ officers, sent to San
Diego from Lisbon by the Portuguese
government two months ago to learn
military avlatlop. under Instruction of.
army officers at North Island, have
word from Washington that they would
have to discontinue flying ai the gov
ernment aviation school.
Declaration of war against Portugal
$y! Germany was given the Mason, the
war department taking the stand that
ft oould not train aviators of a belllg
fmnit nation.
atll tour men were to take their flying
'taate for their Aero'Club of America
iioetufe. They Wilt- be pe*mitteLto
•h th|iir course at a school 'not cut­
hour," said Alexander
Ribot, minister of finance, speaking In
the chamber of deputies last night- on
the financial and military situation.
"We can say without Illusion and
without vain optimism that we now
see the end of this horrible war."
M. Ribot's utterrance Is taken to be
of the utmost important as indicating
official opinion with regard to the re
sult of the battle of Verdun.
It is unquestionable that the tension
In France has relaxed and men's
ouncement ,^f General suppressed.* thoughts have turned to the rapid de- considering further that oWmaiCT
of
b^^^!Mei&-Tha^'paclftcist^:^wsp^«ii.j^ -Buchv^t. Boamanla.
first
In the Ver0.un region, the war
oftice
announced this afternoon. There
w^g some cannonading.
Villa's foUow- ,w
deemed advisable to'ent^r the town toners had burned a 250-foot railroad Fighting Is Less Violent.
bridge near Corralltos. Berlin, March lS.-^-The lighting ac
burned bridge was on the
SH
tivlties of both the French and the
German armies on the western front
were less vigorous yesterday, accord
lng to the official statement at army
headquarters today.
Deny Loisa of Poaition.
and spanned a wide gulch. Embassy today emphatically denied
It was close to th® latter place that ^jlat tjje German forces were holding.
the Vllllstas are. said to have mur-
Washington. March 18.—The French
any( portlon
dered five Mexican ranchers on Sun- I
day and drove off their horses. Urged Attack on England. jbm
Arrivals from Columbus today re-|
of Dead Man's Hill.
London.<p></p>London.
patch
from Rome says that the retire-
ment of
man miniater
by hls
peror
William and Prince Henry
Enver Psaha Visiia Holy L«nd.
Berlin, via London, March 18.—An
official dispatch from Constantinople
says that Enver Pasha, the Turkish
war minister, has returned there from
a trip of inspection to Syria, Pales
tine and Arabia. He had gone as far
iu. pHv whar*
as Aieuuitti vuo i'•
he paid a visit to the tomb of Moham
med.
TUBANT1A WA8 TORPEDOED.
Suoh
is Declaration of Officers and
Lookouts of 8unken Ship.
Washington, March 18.-Two officers
and two lookouts of the destroyed
Dutch liner Tubantla, the American
consul »t Amaterdara reported today,
"swear the vessol was torpedoed.
The consul reports four persona
an American consul, Is an employe
*rWe
«tr
mWWmw$
ls
1
events favorable the
ames h__rlTt„
.. .A-a inm. submarine wariare to increase wo
'-JL .L. th By]gari,aHfft-rePorted.l^the Wposslbl* re* the
tensive that both pu^seng^r an* freight
march-of. afootat-thirty miles a day. I traffic has been suspended, Imperial chancellor Is required to enter-f .SLV' J?!
Passenger traffic has beep stopped
slmlIar blU8 were
by
when
Admiral von Tirpitz as Ger-
of marine was occasioned
intention to attack Great Brit- I
t^e
of
the New York Life Insurance Com
pany. With his wife and daughter,
Schilling wau saved.
4
Keeping Tab on the House.
New Serial, The Turmoil.
Editorial
'fM* 'f
mssmima
T.-R. BULLETIN.
NEWS OF~THE DAY
The W.«lh»r.
Sun rises March 19 at 6:16, »ete at 6:11.
Iowa—Pur.tly cloudy tonight and
Sunday colder tonight
PAGE ONE.
Telagraphio Nawst
U. s. Troops to Occupy no Mexican
Cities.
Two Kxpedltioaa Form Junction.
Now Near Villa Headquarters.
France Beet* End of War.
Believes Germany Is Exhausted.
Great lirituiii to Bar Luxuries.
PAGES TWO, THREE AND FOUR.
Iowa News:
Iowa Greatest Convention.
Three Break Jail at Webster City.
Four TJckcts on Primary Ballot.
Minister Sued For Slander.
Plot For the Movies.
Tama Favors Koad Bondi.
Gathered in the Byways.
PAGE FIVE.
General News and Story:
Women Take Part In Politics.
House Committee Scores Railroads.
War Prices.
Don't Fuss, Fix It.
An Ancient and Outworn Excuse.
Topics of the Times.
Iown Opinion and Notes.
PAGES EIGHT, NINE, TEN, ELEVEN
City News:
M. H. S. Breaks Even in Debate.
Fort DodgeWVIns Triangular Meet
Jefferson Now Wants Roads Graded.
Injunction Under "Red Light" Law.
Mrs. Catt to Give Address Here.
Local Comment.
General and Brief City News.
PAGE TWELVE.
Marksts and General:
Peace Rumors Drug Down Wheat.
Rush to Sell Corn..
Cattle Steady.
Hogs Advance Then Recede.
in the present difficult time. We send
to the creator of our navy and the
father of the German naval spirit an
assurance of the truest and m^jst
thankful devotion."
7The, L™re fn he
treduced the
relchstag: u^toirr. nn»'
l*erman
but as
impede the provld ng of Germany with,
food supplies and raw material,
conl
submarine warfare to increase
b,
to obtaln-
food mn& raw
warfare
a vicic,rious
lntQ n(} Brrangements
for ten days on the railroad from .vhj,.h would hinder us in the un
brought forward
conSPrVatlve
and center party.
CO"8
ARMY MEASURE
PRESIDENTS BILL
Wilson Fully Approves Meaaure aa
Now Before House—iRapreaentative
Mann Opposes Bill aa Being Inade
quate to Meet Needs.
Washington, March 18.—The house
military bill is President Wilson's own
Chairman May, of the military
March IS.—A wireless dls- committed, informed the house today
debate on the bill was resumed
umler the ten hour
maV say-
ne aa,a ,n rep
entire German navy. These question, "in broad language, that this
(is
the president's bill, that he thor-
oughly approve# of It."
Chairman Hay said the bill carries
oui the "recojiiinEr.d&ticsis of the
president's message and goes a little
further."
He said the president was satisfied
with the proposed federallxatlon of
the national guard.
"Then," said Representative Moore,
republican, "ij«w»tl»men voting for this
bill, will be voting for the president's
convictions?"
"Thoy will." tMr. Hay responded.
Representative Mann, minority lead
er, attacked the bill as being Inade
quate to meet the requirements of the
present time.
"We are having a little trouble on
the border of -Mexico, he said, "and
are sending a few troops Into Mexico.
whf,n
BoFf!,-, Bisoisims fis«»onaibility.
Berlin, by Wireless to Sayvllle, March
18.—'"Commenting on the Dutch report
that the steamship Tubantla was sunk
byj a mine, German newspapers aro
discussing the origin of the mine," says united States must take a prominent couple
the OverseA Agency. "They state nWe iR defending its own rights and
that the latest statistics Indicate that those of smaller neutrals and In up
it was not a German mine. ho'Hinir infpmatlonnl law.
'•Since the beginning of the war, 918 *i believe," he said, "th^t lit 1% the
mines hav* been washed up on the duty of the United 8tot4s to prepare
Dutch coast. Of ,thesc 484 were of now an army to add weight to the
Brllsh orlglp, 68 French. 201 unknown. Bugnestlons we make."
and Only 1V5 German." "The time has come when It Is wise
Group of Reiohstftg Dacidaa to Demand pare now we rrtay regret It to the end
Contlnuanoa of Von Tlrpit* Plan of our lives."
Berlin, via "X&h'don, March lS.X-TheJ RepreaentaMv* TCShn. ranking ml
natloriAi liberal group In the relchstag1 norlty memb** of the |pf|itary dm
dedded today to Introduce^ at this ses- mltitee, said war canij stiddenly In
slon Its measure calling for the carry- modem times and wisdom demanded, a
iftg ot» of tWe aubmfcrlne war reaaonabl* measure of
nationaa llber.a.is sent ins fsSioisiJag for Wtih:
yet
missing and says that Richard Schll- dispatched to Mexico until this house one theater and then went to the Com
link, referred to in news dispatches as
ha(1 pas9ea
a resolution calling for pany 'C" armory,
times, he aititt tMiu94tMW «T llvea
bp lhfr newa, might h*v* saved t» the ^son
s»rtleacy* try's' itmhtii&m ».
„. Colder Smui^kmi
WS
Ci
Partly Ckmdr
NUMBER $7
tions of Unnecees*
sary Articles to be
Prohibited,
PLANS ECONOMY
OF SHIPPING S#ACE
Laok of Vaaaaia to Handle Naeaaaitiaa
•nd Munitions to Bring About Dras
tic Order Curtailing—- Automobiiaa,
Cutlery, Yarns, Chinawara and Soap
to Be Claasified as Unnaoaaaary
Articlaa.
London, Mrfrch 18.—A far reaching
order In council, which will prohibit
importation into the United Kingdom
of a large number of articles which
oome under the general heading of
luxurlea soon will be Issued by the
British government
Among the things which will b«
barred will be automobiles for private
use. musical Instruments, cutlery of all
kinds, hardware, yarns, chinaware, '."
fancy goods, and soaps. The order will
apply to the British dominions and
colonies.
This forecast of the coming order In $
council was given yesterday by Walter
Runciinsa, president of the Doara or
trade. He agreed that the decree would'
have considerable effect on exports
from the United States, but pointed out
that it applied to all countries alike,
and declared, it was absolutely neces
sary to limit the shipment of bulky if
luxuries 4n' order to provide room on
Attitud. OXIInW. "nlp* '°rL:S~f,r8Mo. C„...
Berlin, to -.r.jw to -Bu, XI ''J^rr Tr. Ru»..-
1
ma"
following measure In the
^ld, "that the issuance
ord#r forced on th# country_thisnotof
a8
•'Considering that S! shortage In tonnage. We want exports
only makes war on the iirined force, of
a matter of policy, but because of a
rrom th# UnUed we WAn( your
wi»h' wheBt-
pel Germany to submit tliru hun
cotton, and meat, and we need
thru unlimited and unrestrained! Everything possible Is helngTdene
whlch we can not ret
warfare to increase the! relieve shortage In ships. Bvery
material, considering that
t^togthe
tt
the space aboard vessels Is taken up
with luxurlea
nn..ihi.
i.
..British flag la nm «a.K-
^fftclent gowOWa. ^lfSt dine W
1
would bring moi% speed-j
end of the war, th- •I0™® would be
with other coun
I matter-of imports to the general In
dustrial situation In the British lilest
Mr. Runclman said there never had
ever before, ahd that the percentage
of unemployment never had been so
small in th- history of the country.
Big Increases in Wagea.
"Because of the- heavy demand for
labor and the higher cost of living."
he added, "wagea have Increased since
the outbreak of the war, and nearly all
classes of workers are receiving more
money. About 5,600,000 persons have
received raises, and the Increases ln
wages has been, roughly, (5,000,000 a
week. Besides this, many of the peo
ple have been transferred to the bat»
ter paying munitions Industries.
"Labor, on the whole, ln spite of one
or two notable exceptions, has been
reasonable in its demands since the
war began. One Influence which con
trlbuted to this has been the limlta*
tlon of profits in Industries employer
ln the manufacture and transportation
of munitions.
"An example of the rise in wages
may.be seen In the case of the seamen.
Before the war they got about 933,50
a month and their keep. Now they
re­•9
ceive between 340 and 942.50 a month.'
AMES STORY EXAGGERATIO.
Wild Tale Sent Out by Correspondent
Regarding Student Prank.
Special to Times-Republican.
Ames, March 18.—The story lha*
went out excitedly from Ames last
m#nt to tne morning newspapers io ilia
effect that the mllltla had been called
out In Ames to quell a riot Of lowt
State College students was a Wild
vagary which had little or no founda
tion for its propagation! The excuse
for the story was slight. The engineers
of the college, who are about 700 of
the total of 3,000 students, yesterday
had their St. Patrick's day celebration.
This came after we haf contemplation jThey had big festivities on the campus
of trouble for four years. And
and in the^ afternoon marched dowti
this came the troops were not town behind their band. They rushea
20,000 more men for border services." I rented for a two-day production of the
"Never was thero a more pat 11-1 «m. "Damaged Goods. The guards
lustration than that of the present men learned of the'Intended excuiwlon
army and the proposed Increase In it., down town and there were three or
nrmv^nd the proposed increase in It. four guardsmen on hand with bayonets ,v*
...i.ii'o anfrioi»«f tn times of peace «xed to keep the students out. Deputy g||
would not be sufMclent in time of'Marshal Canady made ai^ingemenw^
war. and today wo have the
greatest
war of the ages going on." I*"*
with the manager for a free Show
crowd
w*nt
Representative Mann aatd tfce: «rst scramble to get In the^ doqr tots.
LdtntiMi rrtitaf tub* ft nrAmtnnnt COUple of students Stuck their htkaf cjit
|fy
were higher than
&
had
I"1*'1*
,n-
In the
Into the bayonets and were scifatchtwt'
Nobody was Injured and nobody was
angjsred.
Strike Situation UnohanOlM/
Sioux City* March 19.—The
situation at the Oudahy plant ia U9»
changed, all the employes wlthtthe «x-
for "us t^'consiaeriW'^siibliity of! caption of number of hog lwt«iei«
LlBERAL8 FAVOR '8UB' WARFARE the future and prepare now for what being at work. Officials believe the
may'rome to ok If we do not pre-
trouble has eftded.
Sohool Taaoher Severely Burned.
Iienox. March t7,-—Misa Adtt EUlS,
who la a teacher in the schpme
has been teken to Cottage hoapltal to.
Cnsston, for treatment. Incident fo.
painful bums which she received in an
a id re
The exploskm ef a lamp cau»ed.hS'
sodden gust of wind, threw hurtiibg ott.
'on her clothUvg
