THE DONALDSON VILLE C IEF.
A Wide-Awake Home Newspaper-Published Every Saturday-Subscription Price, $2 a Year.
DONAYDSO--SusrLto LA., SM a9Y ar
VOLVIE XLV. DONALDSONVILLE, LA., SATURDAY, MARCH 18, 1916.
.tin~~~~~~~~~~~----- nnnnu|- n II. N |NNNN `lm~nmm .n .
NEWS OF THE PHOTOPLAYS
S Comingi Attractions at the Local Movie Houses
l In. --I
4 " ..
CHA°5.TROWBRIDGE
&MLLE, {)JANE
;:;!.P ...[ . .... !i%.ti::N i~ :
ii'. ; ;:;· -·: - ·.·.:·;:::i::::l-: ··
IN
,THE SIRENS SONG"
AT TIIE GEM THEATRE TOMORROW, SUNDAY, MARCH 19
"The Siren's Song," which comes
to the Gem Theatre tomorrow, can
he highly recommended as a master
piece, The story is a most interest
ing one, being enhanced with many
tense situations and several thrilling
scenes, together with n love theme of
unusual interest,
. A young man, who comes to the
big city to make his way in the world,
has been unfortunate in securing em
ployment. At last he receives a po
sitior, with a bank. Through his
limited knowledge of the world he is
used by his employers as a tool to
dupe patrons into purchasing worth
lesi stock. Fearing detection, the
employers make their "get away,"
and leave the clerk to face the rioting
depositors.
At this, point in the picture is a
veb fAye qlist s~eiaeof ~a.rp on a g~nk
in wcinc the Iank'is \vreeked; only the'
timely arrival of the police saves the
hero from being roughly handled by
the maddened crowd. He is arrested
and sentenced to serve four years in
prison, His prison term ended, he
adopts the name of John Grey and
decides to go to a foreign country.
On board the steamer he meets
Blake, the former bank president. and
his confederate, Helen Granger.
Grey in his mind's eye lives over the
last four years in prison, and becomes
so embittered against Blake that he
waits an opportunity to demand repar
ation. Late at night he finds Blake on
the deck alone and accosts him. AfterI
a few words they clinch. There is a
terrilic battle that is said to be even
more stirring than the one in "The
Spoilers," at the termination of which
Blake throws Grey overboard, the
latter falling a distance of! more than
75 feet into the raging ocean. After
floating all night on a stray log, he is
rescued by the crew of a fishing boat,
who land him in a ý.m'll village along
the fishing banks, where he finds em
ployniment among the fishing folk.
John Gordon's wife, a dcrug fiend,
left him and not having heard from
her for several years, he again mar
ries. The second un:on is blessed
with a daughter. Katherine. While
this happy family are visiting a sum
mer resort, Gordon is confronted by
his first wife. The shock of seeing
her is so great that he suffers a heart
attack and succumbs. HIis wife and
daughter, knowing the truth, retire to
the same village where John Grey has
by this time endeared himself to the
inhabitants,
Helen Granger gains the confidence
of the first wife and purchases her
marriage certificate. Armed with this
document and accompanied by Blake,
she seeks the second Mrs. Gordon,
and attempts to blackmail her.
Katherine, who is engaged to marry
John Grey, tells him of their predica
ment. Upon his discovery of who the
plotters are, he secretly goes to the
rooms occupied by Helen Granger to
obtain the marriage certificate. He
is discovered by Blake, who attacks
him, and hearinig the noise of the
seufile 'the adventuress enters the
room.
Grey, having secured the paper. is C
threatened with the exposure of his
past life by his enemies. He tells
them he will make a clean breast of u
the whole affair, which would ulti
mately send Blake and his companion
to prison. Realizing that he has the b
upper hand, the conspirators promise
to leave town in the morning. This k
irings the, happy ending' to a most!
tense and interesting story.
"The Siren's Song" introduces to h
the motion picture field Mlle. Diane, n
a French actress, who gives great
promise of becoming a favorite. She n
has the most expressive eyes of any
body who hats yet appeared on the
screen, and she uses them to the best a
advantage in playing the part of
"Helen (lranger'," the adventuress.
Sign of Good Digestion. I
When you see a cheerful and happy o
old lady .you may know that she has
good digestion. If your digestion is
ilpaired or if you do not relish your i
meals take a lose of Chambehlain's f
Tablets. They strengthen the stom
ach, improve the dig'estion and cause h
a geatle movement of the bowels. Ob- -
Ialiabl- everywhere.- ~(Adv. ) h
Emily Stevens, who will long be
remembered by -local motion picture
patrons for hei~ excellent work in
"L)estiny, or The Soul of a Woman,"
will again be seen on the screen at
the Grand Theatre tomorrow in "The
House of Tears," another big five
part feature. 'Beforei making her
debut in motion pictures, under Me
tro auspices, Miss *Stepens had just
reached satrd:m opl the speaking
stage, with a r arkable role in the
sensational pla' "~Today," Since her
triumph in Miett; masterpieces, Miss
Stevens has become the most talked-of
emotional actress in the country. She
was selected for the stellar role in
"The Unchastenhed Woman," now
playing in New York, and scored such
a distinct personil triumph in the part
that the play is: cceded by critics
and public alike f e t tdrama
tic Iff tii n s Ifrlt
city.
In "The Houses of Tears," Miss
Stevens is surrounded by a stronig
cast which includes Henri Bergman,
the powerful dramatic actor; Walter
Hitchcock, Madge Tyrone, George
Brennan and other well-known ar
tists of the screen and stage.
The story of "The House of Tears"
rI
SCENE FROM THE HOQSE OFTEARS
AT THE GRAND THEATRE TOMORROW, SUNDAY, MARCH 19
is, briefly, as follows:
In "The :-louse of Tears" there
lived Robert Collingwood, his wife,
Alice Collingwood, and their baby
girl, (;ail. Robert has been granted
a decree of divorce and custody of
the little girl. upon evidence that
Mrs. Collingwood has been found in
a compromising situation with Henry
Thorne, and her subsequent admis
sions. Once free, Mrs. Collingwood
openly accept£o: the attentions of
Thorne, and the~ soon marry and go
west to live. Thorne takes up the
hard and uncertain life of a pros
pector in a mining community, and
his constant failure proves a source
of discouragement to him and un
happiness to the woman.,
Collingwood, his mind upset by
domestic troubles, loses his fortune in
Wall street manipulations, and be
aomes a raving maniac. He drives
his employees out of his office, and
then goes to his home intending to
kill his little daughter. In a chase up
a staircase, he falls and is killed.
Fifteen years later, Thorne, who
has been p!odding along in the west,
meeting with little success, wiis $15,
000 at faro in a desperate plunge one
night. He has become tired of the
woman he won by intrigue and his
Sudden prosperity turns his head. He
.arranges to go back to Wall street to
flirt with fortune, and he tells his
wife he will not take her along, but
will leave enough money for her to
live on. She is horrified at the pros
pect of his desertion, and at the point
of a revolver demands his money. In
a struggle which ensues, she is seri
.usly wounded. Thorne leaves, be
lieving .his wife dead from the shot
From her own hand,
Back in Wall street, Thorne, who
ans changed his name to Edward
North. electrifies other operatives by
xis phenomenal risjt'h affluence. Gail
Collingwood, who has now grown i
womanhood, is known under the nanr
of Alice Gail, and employed as a rn
porter on the Evening News. She
i rent to interview Thorne, and he
is truck by the girl's beauty and charn
They become very friendly and thei
n:cquaintance soon ripens into love
in due time their betrothal is ar
Inounced. Out in the mining tow
Thorne's wife has recovered, and sh
resolves to come back to the scenes o
her youth. She is seeking Thorne i
the ,great city, when Gail. who is rid
ing in an automobile loaned her b
her fiancee, runs down her mother,
poor, ill-clad, wandering woman. Th
mother is but slightly injured, an
;he recognize, her daughter. The
plan to make "North" face his past
Gail sends word for "North" to com
to her home as she is in troubli
When he arrives he is brought face t,
face with his wife, whom he believe,
to be (lead. "North" becomes fren
zied from fear, as he thinks the sad
faced woman is an apparition, and h,
dees from the house. The apparitioi
continues to haunt him, and in .
half-crazed mood he drives his auto
mobile blindly through the streets
ending by running off a bridge, whet
he is hurled to death.
Mother and daughter, re-united
then seek a happier existence.
Jesse L. Lasky's production it
picture form of Wm. C. DeMille',
unique play, "Young Romance," witl
Edith Taliaferro as the star, is tc
be the offering on Wednesday at the
Grand Theatre, and may truly bE
said to be a motion picture novelty
On the basis of a humorously roman
tic plot concerning the adventures oI
two young department store clerks,
the author has built a story filled
to the brim with "human nature"
and, at the same time, not lacking in
dramatic force and suspense. Though
they labor in the same establishment,
the here and heroine of the story
have never met each other until they
both tale their annual vacation the
same week at the same Maine sum
mer resort, both pretending to be so
2iety people of wealth and leisure.
'he adventures which cause true love
so triumph over youthful deception
are highly diverting and altogether
out of the ordinary. Edith Talia
ferro, as "Nellie of the Notions,"
has a role which fits her like one of
the very best gloves in the store, and
her advent as a screenar twill sure
The feature attraction at the
Grand on Monday will be "The
Chorus Lady," with an all-star cast.
"The Two Orphans," with Theda Bar
ra, peerless emotional actress, in the
leading role, is announced as the bill
for Tuesday. Miss Barra will be sup
ported by William Shea and Jean
Sothern. Thursday's program will in
clude the Pathe news and other high
class pictures, and on Friday winsome
Blanche Sweet will be seen in "Se
cret Sin." Saturday's offering will be
the fourteenth chapter of the stirring
serial, "The Goddess," supplemented
by a hilarious comedy and a Bray car
toon for the children.
A Slight Digression.
In our T. & P. agricultural press
service, it has been my aim to stick
pretty closely to "shop;" and I hope,
therefore, that everybody will pardon
a slight digression, which is:
That tenant farmers should be
rendered moral if not material en
couragement to become independent
home owners, and coached to win out,
to the end that they may feel they
have more "stake" in the country.
That city .people, unable to meet
the ever-increasing difficulty of mak
ing a living in town, should be ren
dered moral if not material en
couragement to reach the country un
der conditions offering reasonable
promise of suecess.
To these ends we need constructive
statesmanship, more than we need
partisan politics.
R. R. CLARIDGE,
Agricultural Agent, T. & P. Ry. Co.
When to Take Chamberlain's Tablets.
When you feel dull and stupid after
eating.
When constipated or bilious.
When you have a sick headache.
When you have a sour stomach.
When you belch after eating.
When you have indigestion.
When nervous or despondent.
When you have no relish for your
meals.
When your liver is torpid.
Obtainable everywhere.- (Adv.)
VOTES FOR WOMEN.
Southern State Woman Suffrag
Con ence.
417 Camp Str et, New Orleans.
The SSlic Law.
The famous clause in the Salic la
by which women are precluded fron
-succession to soup European thrones
is the ona of all the many provision;
of the Salic code which has become
best 'known, and in referring to the
Salim law this discrimination agains
women is ,the di~inguishing feature
In the inheritance of movable prop
irty women were recognized as par
ticipants in feudal times, but the in
heritance of land was confined ex
elusively to m:ae This was becaus(
the ownership of land carried with ii
iuty of military service.
If the Salic laww insofar as it com.
pels all klndholds to perform mili.
tary duty, should be enforced in thih
country, what <bnsternation would
ensue! Salic lawafor women is com
placently regarded, by powers and by
individuals, but, -oh! how different
when the measure in its original
glorious form is applied to men.
Wouldn't a regiiment of landowing
men be unique! Let's try such a plan
for Mexican investors and for the
coast defenses. The Newport Brigade
or the Bar Harbor Light Infantry
sounds inspiring. And what formid
able protectors d( the Monroe doe
trine would be th* Standard Oil Cav
ilry.John D. ridin* ahead- If the vote
implies force andJ iilitary duty there
are plenty of women who could qual
ify fully as well 's the Standard Oil
magnates, or theisocial lions of Bar
Harbor. Read the record of war ser
vice rendered by Avomen in Europe.
Kansas C~hivalry.
The following !a part of a resolu
tion adopted by' the Kansas senate
and also by the Kansas legislature.
The resolution was offered by Senator
Jouett Shouse, formerly of Lexing
ton.
"Whereas, the Women of our state
exercised the rigl* of universal suf
frage at the last jection for the first
time in the histor of Kansas; and
"Whereas, the Irght to vote was ex
ercised by them =kenerally and with
manifest interest in the questions at
issue; therefore be it
"Resolved, by the senate of the
state of Kansas; the house concurring
therein, that it is the judgment of
this legislature that the granting of
the right of suffrage to the women of
the state, so long.withheld from them,
was not only an aet of justice to a:
disfranchised class, but that it also
has proven to be oi great good .ta: tli
sta ttý ~e om ilsts ý
Woman Suffrage Not .Expensive.
If you ever offered that stale ob
jection to woman suffrage, "It would
only double the vote and increase
election expenses," forget it. Cook
county, which is the banner woman
suffrage county of Illinois, calculates
to save $400,000 on its next election.
This speaks well for a county and re
futes any idea of 'prohibitive cost of
votes for women.
"THE BIRTH OF A NATION."
Engagement of Remarkable Picture
Extended at Tulane Theatre.
To relieve the disappointment of
hundreds turned away this week, the
management of the Tulane Theatre,
New Orleans, has arranged for an ex
tension of the engagement of D. W.
Griffith's mighty historical spectacle,
"The Birth of a Nation." Perform
ances are being given twice daily at
2 and 8:15 p. m., Sundays included,
and the spectacle has literally taken
the city by storm.
It is also announced in the New Or
leans papers that "The B.irth of a
Nation" is to be kept up to its pres
ent standard of grandeur and massive
ness, and that it will never be pre
sented except in the leading theatres
of the larger cities. It is claimed that
only in these playhouses can the
proper facilities be found for pre
senting the $500,000 combination 'of
film and music. The servicesof 50
people are employed in each presen
tation and an elaborate musical score
is played by an orchestra of 30. The
orchestra is one of the finest sym
phony organizations ever heard in
New Orleans.
The story of "The Birth of a Na
tion" is taken from "The Clansman,"
by Thomas Dixon, and it depicts the
complete history of the south's vary
ing fortunes during the war and re
construction periods. In some of the
great battle scenes 18,000 people and
3000 horses are shown. The -assas
sination of Abraham Lincoln is also
reproduced. The picture runs three
hours and it is in every sense a great
spectacular offering, ranking with
"Ben HIur," "The Garden of Allah"
and plays of that class.
The best seats for the night per
formances cost $2 and there are other
jeserved seats for $1.50, $1 and 75
cents; gallery, 50 cents. Matinees,
best seats, $1, and others, 75 and 50
cents. Gallery, 25 cents. Mail or
ders will be promptly filled when ac
companied by money order or certi
fied check and self-addressed stamped
envelope. but patrons are warned
against ordering the cheaper seats by
mail. There are few of these left
for the rest of the engagement, since
most of them were snapped up dur
ing the early days of the advance
sale.
With its last February issue the
Thibodaux Commercial-Journal com
menced its thirteenth volume, and we
hope there will be a full fruition of
the paper's optimistic belief that it is
destined to enjoy a good many more
dozen years of the advancement and
success that have marked its first
dozen. The Commercial-Journal is
one of. the fewsouth Loiisiana papers
that adhere to the once common prac
tice of printing part of its contents
in the French language.
An ad in The Chief will pay.
-ACCEPTS IMPORTANT POSITION.
Capt. H. C. Whiteman Becomes Man
ager of Big Alabama Company.
The following extracts from. an ar
ticle which appeared in the Birming
ham (Ala.' Ledger of Feb. 19 will be
of much interest locally:
"Captain H. C. Whiteman, who has
been in the Mississippi river transpor
tation business all his life, will be the
general manager of the water trans
portation company being organized by
the thratt Consolidated Coal Company.
This company, with the Crescent Coal
Company, of New Orleans, is orgaln
izing a separate concern to handle ex
clusively the water transportation.
Sea going barges of this company will
carry Birmingham's products to the
Atlantic coast, to Cuba. to all gulf
coasts, to Mexico and through the
Panama canal.
"The details of the transportation
company are now being worked out,
and articles of incorporation will be
filed soon at New Orleans. The com
pany now has three sea going barges
in addition to a number of river
barges, and the first Alabama coal to
be shipped from Mobile on the sea
going barges will be sent out in May.
The company, by that time, will be
fully organized and equipped to han
dle coal to gulf and Mexican ports,
steel and wire products and cast iron
pipe and machinery to Texas, Mexi
can and other points, and pig iron to
the cast iron pipe plants in the east
and to other ports.
. 'We now have three sea going
barges,' declared Captain Whiteman.
'One of them is en route from Bruns
wick, Ga,, to New York, and another
is loading at Port Arthur, Tex., for
Mobile. We will get a number of new
sea going barges to care for the traf
fic we expect to handle.
" 'Birmingham's products will be
sent (down the Warrior river on
barges, and at Mobile will be trans
ferred to sea going barges at a nomi
nal cost. There never has been any
thing like this in the south before; it
is all new to the south, but these sea
going barges will prove to be one of
the greatest developers of southern
commerce. Railroads cannot com
pete with water on 'time' freight
where the water is accessible.' "
Brandeis for Supreme Judge.
President Wilson has nominated
Louis D. Brandeis of Boston for as
sociate justice of the supreme court
to fill the vacancy resulting from the 'i
death of the late Judge Lamar. Op
position to the confirmation of the
nomination has developed and the
senate committee on judiciary is giv- !
ing public hearings on the matter, <
a very u~usu procedure.. Mr.
very pronounced views that have ledI
many to regard him as a Socialist, |
and if confirmed, as we believe he 4
should be, he will be the first citizen
of Jewish extraction to sit on the su
preme bench,
c- ---·--- --ý
LEADING Tr CCO TOWN.
Winston-Salem Word's Largest Man
ufacturer of Tobacco Products.
Following are itaets from an ad
dress delivered b Col. A. D. Watts,
collector of inte revenue for thej
fifth district of Mth Carolina. at a
smoker given t- e Twin City Club,
Winston-Salem, b. 4 1916:
"Winstqn-S t s supplying one
fourth of all the a ng and smoking
tobacco consum in the United
States, besi 1 g rting vast quan
tities to fo:eign lands This state
meot is taken from`the report of the
commissioner of 'ttirnal revenue for
the first quarter i: the present fiscal
year and from p advices from
Washington, as ond qcuarter,
which ended Dee t.
'Your city is ý one-seventh
of all tobacco p r t-chewing and
smoking tobacco, cigas, cigarettes
and snuff-man etured in the
;United States. uf munufacturers
are paying on an ~age about $37,
000 a day revenue ~xe to the gov
irnment and the, unt is increasing
from month to pth. When your
government buildi much the hand
somest in the s$, 'was completed
last July at a cotref $250,000, your
lewspapers made 0e statement that
the taxes paid iii r city to Uncle
Sam for the fis ight days of its
occupancy would y for it. Since
September, it ha ken only a frac
tion over seven e days collec
sons here to eq ta cost. So far
this week, Mr. Cf rd has taken in
$206,428.50. I edt that before
1916 shall have d your average
weekly payments tthe government
n tobacco will morethan pay for this
magnificent buildi leaving the col
ections for the of fifty-one weeks
is clear profit to t government.
"Winston-SaleY sis shipping on an 1
iverage each weekay to all parts of
his country and d foreign lands at
e.st $150,000 ofbacco products.
"In conclui~o Winston - Salem
nanufactures m tobacco (all to- r
acco products taken into this
;tatement) thaniny other city on r
earth, little er bW Industrially, she
s easily first in rth Carolina; pop
ilation considere first in America,
mnd I believe, in e world; socially,
never failing del to her friends."
Rank F hess. f
You occasionally -ee it stated that t'
olds (do not result; .m cold weather. 1
'hat is rank foo iss. Were it true
olds would be. as pvalent in mid- t'
ummer as in -mi dnter. The mi- $
robe that causfs ds flourishes in o
lamp, cold weath To get rid of a 2
old take Chambe 's Cough Rem
or many years as ccasion required, t
ad know its real ¢value Obtainable 1
verywhere.-(Adt v.) . o
Let The Chief print yourstation- $
ry. $
GRAND JURY REPORT.
Repairs to Local High School Building
Recommended.
The following comments and rec
ommodations were made in the fi
nal report of the grand jury im
pcnelled at the opening of the Febru
ary term of criminal district court:
Jail-We visited and examined this
building and find it to be in fair con
dition and neatly kept.
Courthouse--This building we find
in poor condition and in need of re
pairs, and refer the same to the prop
er oflicials.
Clerk's Office--This office, the most
important of the parish, we find to be
kept in a very systematic way. We
notice with satisfaction and pride the
efficiency of this office.
Sheriff's Office--We find this office
conducted in a most business-like
manner. The sheriff and his force
ever at their post to serve the public.
Assessor's Office--We find the as
sessor and his deputy at their yearly
task. His records were exhibited to
us, all of which we find to be kept
tery nicely.
Parish Treasurer-The treasurer
was at his post and exhibited all his
records. We found these records
neatly kept in accordance with sys
tematic views.
School Superintendent's Office
rhis office shows a degree of neatness
and efficiency, with all records.neatly
iept, and has our commendation.
High School Building-We visited
his building with great satisfaction
mnd after being explained the differ
nt branches of studies, hereby ap
irove all with special mention to the
lass of domestic science and the com.
nercial course.
We recommend the closing in of all
oilets in this building, and especial
y call attention to the toilet adjoin
ng the domestic science room. This
hould have immediate attention.
Ve also wish to call attention to the
eilings in the building, as they all
teed repair. A number of shades
teed replacing. All of which is very
tecessary to put this building in first
lass condition.
St. Louis Live Stock Market.
National Stock Yards, Ill., Mar. 13.
Cattle receipts 5000. There was a
air supply of southern mixed cattle
,day and the market was generally
0 to 15 cents lower on all grades.
among the sales were steers at $7.60
. $9; heifers, $6.50; mixed, $4.75 to
5; cows, $4.45 to $7.25; bulls, $5;
xen, $3.75; yearlings, $4.65 to $6
alves, $6.50 to $8.25.
H o g receipts 14,0000. Strong
reihlt hogs opened 10 cents lower,
reme toj for choice heavy hogs;$10.7
0. Pigs 15 to 25 `cents lower. Bulk
f the good hogs 150 lbs. up sold at
9.50 to $9.90; rough hogs, $8.80 to
9; pigs 120 to 140 lbs., $8.25 to
9.25; lighter pigs, $6.50 to $8.25.
Look to the Coffee
"In all cases of so-called neurasthenia, the coffee
drinking of the patient should be inquired into. What
has been said about coffee also holds good in regard
to tea," says a physician of note.
More and more, people are coming to know that the coffee and tea habits
are responsible for a large percentage of those nervous disorders classed under
the head of "neurasthenia," or nervous prostration.
Both coffee and tea contain the drug, caffeine, a powerful irritant of the
nerves. They also contain tannin-an-astringent-which acts most unfavor
ably upon the intestinal walls. Headache, "nerves," insomnia, biliousness-
these are some of the signs of caffeine p~ oning.
Many coffee and tea drinkers are learning that the way to health is by
quitting coffee and tea; and for a pleasant, healthful drink, using
POSTUM i
-the pure food-drink.
This delightful table beverage is made of whole 0IM
wheat roasted with a little wholesome molasses; it
contains only the nourishing properties of the grain. *.
Looks and tastes like mild, high-grade coffee, but is PostU
absolutely free from any harmful ingredient. A - ?lL.td. 1
There are two forms of Postum. The original "_
Postum Cereal-which must be well-boiled; and
Instant Postum-soluble, made in the cup with hot R f _
water, instantly. Both forms are equally delicious ~
and the cost per cup is about the same. Sold by " ' A.- TWO
grocers everywhere.
Original Postum Cereal
15c and 25c packages
Young and old drink Postum with pleasure and comfort.
" There's a Reason"
