I IggjgJ Keep Posted on Am. Fork Canyon-the Coming Mining Camp of the State fecial 1
I American PoriTCitizen 1
H V0L- XI" AMKIUCAN FORK C1TIZKN, BATl'KDU, M.lui isfiyfo ' ' ' vm, 'jH
1 1 Mines and Mining I
PACIFIC TO RESUME
I SHIPPING SOON
Peter Miller, the Can, on Wnr.l.
H Gives mi Account of (lie Heccnl He
M hnvfor of This Interesting Proper!.
Peter Miller, manager , cIllof
H owner In tho Fissure i.CnsR Co
H came down from tho Pacific i.,8 week"
H In an interview ho otated that the
l n,clf c- n,rcnu srwt mine, was dc
H ycloplng bigger with every lilK. TJu.
H big body of milling oro was being on.
H ened up on its strike to tho north on
M the tunnel level, and now shutcs of
H rich galena oro being opcnrl as tlir
M blocking out process proceeds on the
H' other levels.
The miners l.nvo Just completed an
H upralso from the tiinncl lovel to the
H Intermediate level 100 feet above and
H ns stated in a recent Issue, there was
H n breast of two feet or high K,,0 BnI.
H cnn. extending acrosH tho upraise
M much of the way. Lost week Mr. MIIU
H er went about 20 feet past this con
H nectlon and started another upralso
H from (ho Intermediate level. The men
M had gonojiut n short distance when
H Die high grndo began to come In and
M when hq left tho full breast In the
H new upraise was In steel galena, or a
M class similar t.o that shipped lost fall
H and which netted tho company $2,000
B tier cor but which would now net them
m 13.100 per car. Ho also stated that oil
M the rock removed In making theso up.
iM raises, that was not shipping ore, was
M of a good milling grado ond was he
M lag saved on tho dump for this pin
IH pose
B Tlio men who are extending th
m drirt to the north are still In n BOmo-
M what broken up country because or
M llio porphry dyko thHt was cut cross.
M lug the fissure on Its southeast trend
m toward Iho Tiny state territory. Thl?
pojjjhit HselftlsVemmlncfailrUnnd;
T'lMHI itfljl -T m"
H that this porphry Is possibly the chief
JB source of mineralization for Iho hlg
M fissure that lie has been opening up
H nnd expects to find Just as big vnluos
V on tho north side of It nil ho hos to
M the south. In tho twenty-flvo feet ho
M In k gone slnee euttlng the porphry
H tho vein has been very Irregular, the
M foot wall being pressed almost into
tho hanging wall every shoit dlstonee,
the vein then opening up and repeot-
Ing the contraction again. However,
when ho left to come to town, tho big
vein was beginning to nssumo Its
regular rorm and tho men had a good
breast of fair grnde oie, but there Is
yet two feet of porphry accompanying
h mo nssuro, lying next the hanging
wall. So far thoro has been no drift-
Itvg on tho porphry but soon ns tho
vein 1ms doflnntoly settled down to
a Btcady basis somo men will drift on
tho porphry to see what It reveals.
j When tho porphry was cut tho wnt
H er courso was cut and thoro Is now a
K good stream of water flowing out Iho
B tunnel. At this point thoro aro open
t fissures, somo of them ono nnd n half
feet wide and 30 or 40 feet high. As
B tho water come tumbling down theso
H openings It brought mud nnd In some
m Instances pieces of oro.
B Tho Important Information that Mr.
H Miller did rcleaso was thnt Just as
B soon ns teomstors had sufficient norvo.
to oiien up tho road, oio hnullng would
e commenced, nnd this time ho
thoiifiht would bo any time between
K M II 1st nnd tho IGth. There Is sum-
clent oro accumulated In tho bins and
C drifts to keep a bunch of teams busy
HI for a long time nnd tho way the prnp-
eity Is opening up, Indeflfiatoly. Tho
b snow, lower down tho canyon, Is going
rapidly thesq warm days. Thoro will
bo a fow drifts whero n llttlo shovel
H Ing will bo necessary, but If tho prcs
B cnt weather continues, Mr. Miller ox-
peels to bo Imitating the hlg Cnrdiff
on tho other side of the 1111 by the
H middle of next month.
BS
I DR. NOYES HEADS
I NEW COMPANY
K A meeting of various Interests own-
ing tho old Comstock clnlms and oth-
crs adjoining was hold In thin city
Tuesday ovenlng and organized the
Comstock Consolidated Mining nnd
B Milling Company, with tho following
K set of officers, Kx-Mnyor J. V Nnyr .,
m ptosldent; Jacob Greenwood, lcc
H president; Karl Yarney, Tieiifcurer;
K F M Houston, Secretary, these with
M William Greenwood, J 13, (Mmdwlik
B und Hcber Wild couotltutc ttiQ boaid
or dli'tlors. Aitlelcs of Ineorpointlon
lll be filed with the county Clcik
and .Secretary or State In a few days.
Tho group of claims that (ho new
company will own, Hrs on tho south
west Bide line or tho Mnjor livnns
giound. Reeinl tunnels have been
run in the property, otic of them li
In 500 feet and anolher TOO feet. Small
flnaiircH or rich sliver, lead oro buo
been cut but vU,li tho recent dlselos
uresmiido in tho canyon, It Is thought
(hot the sourre of these veins will bo
opened up. Soon na the papers nro
nil properly riled and tho company's
affairs properly ei ranged, four men
will lie put to work and the, force In
creased as occasion requires,
o
TEXAN TUNNEL ENTERS
SOLUABLMLIME HS
Harry Kruso who has hod charge
of the Texan development all winter
enme Into town early In tho week and
reportH the most Interesting develop
ments In this .Interesting proporty
since he took bold of It early Inst sum
mer. Tin- upper tunnel Is now enter
ing the soluable lime and the stringers
or oro coming In indicates tho near
presence or tho nto body for which
this tunnel Is drifting. Mr. Kruse
snyH that Ills men havu hod excellent
health during the long winter, but
thnt the advent of nprlng la most wel
come, o i '
SARAH EMMA
TOJUT LOOSE
The Sarah Kmiiia is tho name or it
now company that Is preparing In
commence development work In tho
miOon at nu early dsle. The eoin
swslsts tr.ToinJ(irgL Stephen
Intention to rorm a stock company,
but for tho present, they will operate
at a co'paitucrshlp.
Their property lies In tho Southeast
section or tho district, between Mill
Canyon and Tibbie Hollow. They
hnvo a big lion tciii Unit is Impregnat
ed witli lead. A tunnel has already
been i mi on the vein for 200 reel.
Theie Is a crohft rissuro about 40
feet abend "Jul the lend Is coming in
more as Ibis contact grows nearer.
Tho Sarah ICinniii being in a part of
the district where but llttlo work lias
been ilont In the past, Its develop
ment will be watched with keen Inherent
SHOULD PROSPECT FOR
TUNGSTEN ORE
Clinrlcs Horron was In town this
week from Nevada, where he has been
working a tungsten property during
tho winter. Tungsten Is n mineral that
has eoiuo Into gicat demand nnd Is
snld to be worth $0.00 per pound bo
cnuso of Us vuluo In making a sup
erior steel used In making cannons
nnd other Implements or hardened
steel. ,
Mr, Horron thinks that ho has seen
tungsten In somo or thci veins in tho
llmo granite contact near tho Alplno
Dcer Creek dlvldo. Ho snys that tung
sten mines are. poor men's mines bc
cause' as u rule (he ore Hos noor the
lurfncc. It lies In quartz vclnH us
ually ninsiics nnd can bo Dopnrated by
breaking up tho quartz. Tho clcnv
ago Is so perfect that tungsten of 80
per cent purity Is often obtained.
The. novlco would throw tungsten In
its ordinary form, nway.thlnklng that
II was ordinary country rock. It is
found In sovcral colors, varying from
,iu almost white to n form black as
lead. Much of 11 Is a yellow or brown.
It Is heavy ns lead, and Is lnsoluablo
In sulphuric or murlntlc ncld. iris
soluiiblo In nitric acid and readily ills
Intregntos In agnii rega. Hut tho safe
thing to do Is If any unusual form of
jock Ib found, send it to. some, reliable
laboratory and have It tested, Mr.
Herron promises to send samples of
Nevada tungsten to tho Citizen olllco.
, o
IJu-ry now subscriber you seeuro
nlll ghe jiiii P,0(M totes for the nolo
mobile and eiery M.M) paid In on old
siiliscilpllmis '-'.0011 ink. Ilesldrs
counting Ihese teles on (he nolo coii
leM, Iho Clllzen "ill gho n I'-'-pleco
dinner set to the one bringing In (he
Inrgrit number of hiibsirlpllous and'
collections up lo April 1st. 11-ill
AMERICAN FORK AND '
COnONWOODSCONNECT
Opening of Ore lloillcs In Month Heel,
'ror .Mineral Flat Fnnes (Ireit
North-South Cottonwood-.tmcrlcin
Fork District to lie Ono of Greatest
In Utah.
':
During tho past week there has
been much activity in South Hcch?
stock, which, becnusc of tho excellent
oro bodies now being opened up, has
climbed to $2.67J& and seems lo-be
still on tho upward trend. South Hcjj
la Is on the Cottonwood side or Mount
Holdy nnd less than .1,000 feet north'
of the Mineral Flat. Tho some people
who own South Hecln havo recently;
Incorporated tho South Hecla Extent
sloii nnd the Altu-Uermnnln, uud ln-!
tend working tho latter ground
through tho South Helen Extension
Tunnel. The Alta (Icrmanln ground
comes ovor the dlvldo and Joins sld(
and end lines with tho Mineral FIa
In thu head of American Fork Canyon?
It also Joins tho Boyd Fnrk group".JyS
Ing between the Mineral Flat nnd,"thjC
Pittsburg. ifgft
Tho Government mop nnd reportlfjBt
ccntly- gotten out by the Gcologkjal,
department shows tho snma llmestM
quartzltc contact extending rroniMlw!
Cardiff mlno In Dig Cottonwood tM'
you, on south through I.lttlc. Co'ttX
wood'Cnnyon, over tho divide, throwPc
tho hend of American Fork canjfiK'
and on down Into Door Creek, JKj
strike of .this lime qunrtzlto conKI
is almost duo north and south nnttjBi
It are. located nearly all the ImfiBj
nnt mines of the two-ends of 0Q'f4
tonwdnd-Amerlcan Fork dlsfrlct, 'f
evident from tho opening of tHejBtf
oro bodlca In the Cardiff to thrjJBBv
the South Hecla near the ccntekBv)
tho Pacific that It Is one of tho Br
est and biggest mineral bcarlngtBw
In thn state. Never beforo in I4H,-,
tory luia there been so much iVW
planned for dovcldprng no mnnHffl'7
cities, In both Bcctlonn of tho,BBhBf.
The geology nnd system of fwiih;
is. practically. the.s'biuo over ItsiWlr'e
lennUtoLiHlnomllos andLthc'ilHg
tonwood-Amcrlcan Fork district to be
tho biggest nnd one of tho most perm
anent producers In tho state.
BAY STATE ORE IS
WORTHJP A TON
The carbonate chloride oro that the.
Day Stuto people aro taking out at the
ruto of about 10 sacks per day won
sent to the nssnyer and the returns
show copper, .17 per cent; lend, f.ifi
per. cent; silver, 4t5,t5 ounces; gold, HO
cents per ton; a total value of the
present prices of metals of over ?lo0
per ton. The. oro looks like common
dirt, but Is very heavy, and the small
pieces, when broken open bIiow liber
ally In chlorides. Besides this, there
aro fine bunches of high grndo steel
gnlenn making In connection with tho
other oro.
Ned Wild, who visited the piopcrty
early in tho week, telephoned down
that tho miners were now working
with ns fine n ten inch vein of oro
as ho had ever seen In the canyon
WASATCH RANGE
RESLJMES IRK
The contractors, who signed m rce
menta to push thu tunnel Into Hie ore
vein, will leavo for tho property Mn
day to puih tho tunnel till it In
tersects the vein thnt shows Mich
promlso In tho Incllno shaft above
Tho tunnel Is now In 205 fcrt nnd e
ttmntes on tho distance yet to go vnrj
from 70 to 100 feet.
In the upper workings n vein of
rino shipping orn fiom 3 to C feel
wido was opened up, but because ol
nol which will give the compan)
tho oro It wnH decided to run the tun
ncl which will lglvo tho compan)
about 2D0 feet of stoplng giound,
If tho oro shows up suffUieiitl)
Btrong on tho tunnel lovel and tin
wntor interferes with sinking, a slH
deeper tunnel may bo run which would
gain about foot for foot ns It wob rur
Into the hill.
Tho Wasatch Hango Is lo Mnl bu
a fow hundred feet from the P"r
I.nko. Theso Is n drop of about :ty'
feet from tho Lake to tho inoiilh ol
hn company's tunnel, nnd with but r
small cost tho lako's outflow '""'
operate a wheol for air coini"' '""
purposes nt a minimum co t '''1'
Wasntoh Iltnigc )s counted en o b
one of the rnrllcbt blilppcrs villi ibt
I opening of spring
lmPMAN'S CASH 1
PRICES COUNT I
. - I EVERY DAY
irrpP'8Wiilll 1 I " ,lUH lllro' ulctu' I'lJcciinu Soni for .. 'Joe KBJ
imiH i lllllllflllll 3 ,,,u" (;c,,i,nui " soi,i fi" ! iBal
'CaJMilllllMllIIUIIIIIIlll,ll,l,l,l L.fK t!l, ltj.lR0 Bll(n, ,,()h1i fm. ,8u ,'H
OUR LITTLE BIRD TELLS US lo,- sninoia shoo i-oiisi, So 'M
llllll yoil HIV j,'oinir o liuilrt hOIUclllillg, -r,r Colgales Tool h. l'aslo for Ie 'Vfl
JHHt ttlml, it didn't SOOIll to know. r,c Saullol Tooth l'aslo for ll) - jH
Wi'll now, no IlinttlM wlint it )h, ii lioilK', Mo I'lnex Cough Ucmeily for 10c jyAjJ
win., auto Hhwl, miy kind of n .shod, poul- r,ni ,, (.I(1lkpr Curo flir i0c H
Irj Iioiim or foiic, conic in nnd lot ns !BVi
niiikc you prii-os on IuiuImm and material. ' :,c" Unt,lrl11 f1- ' 30 H
OHIPMAN LUMBER YARD ,'0, ,,,l,l,ox CoURh Uo,m,y for '" ,0e M
2re llromo ()ultiluo I.axntlve for lllc ll
Good white Buod Ooats, all ono kind, 42c per bushel Got what you need boforothoy 'H
aro all gono.
AUTOMOBILE LAMPS.-all .sizes, for all cars, only 25c each, boat kinds. i'H
ID, 25, 40 watt ELECTRIC LAMPS, ovory day prices only 25 :. JjH
20c Granite, G-quart milk jians, every day j,.Jccs only 14c. '
CHIPMAN'S BIG1 I
j , RED STORE I
CLAIMS SIX FEET I
OF ZINC ORE
l.ouls I'hllllps ciiue In from the tfl.
Mllo country Ibis week ror supplies.
l-oii declines that lie has mil a lull
nel a Hide over 100 red Into tho hill
nnd that tho whole race of the tunnel
Is In zinc ore, samples or which show
over i!0 per cent nine Ills piopert)
is but a sliuit distance fiom the fam
ous O. K. silver mine. He ran out ol
supplies was the reason for coming
In now, and ho left again for the
proporty Wednesday
Asnoclutcd with Mr. I'hllllpo are
William Kclloy, U. .1 Phillips, Dob
Lee and George Goodc.
A dinner set free for a llllle vtork.i
COMPANY OF TEN
WILLJNVESTIGATE ;
Cy Mmcer was In town this week
with samples of picture lock showing
film vnlucs In gold, silver, lend and
copper, with silver values predomin
ating. Ho clnlms to havo an Im
mense vein of It on which sunlclcnt
work has been done to provo Its pur
mnnence, an nssay shows somo of It
iib having a value of ocr $200 per
ton.
Local peoplo wero sufficiently In
terested In hia Btory and samples thai
ten of them have signed up n bond
and leaso on tho property ror $10,000,
and will send a lepresenlallvo eoily
next week lo Investigate the property,
snd If It Is satisfactory a bunch or
miners will bo put lo work at oine
to open the propel ty up.
n 1 1 i i
A fur as tho UITIZL'.N Is coiiceriml
Hie contest for thn automobile at the
llrlgg" Phnrmorj closes April Itl nv
IIicit Is ""I) llnee mni r-"U lo se
cure lutes on new Mib, r col
lections Kurlng lliese "'
the Cllhu'ii will give a 12.. ''r
set absolutely free lo the 'B
the largest number of Hile '
Isl. Ihese mien will be enuiiK
March II and emillniie to Vprll (
Just tlirve vkcK! b''t ""y n,!( v
W E L S PI ' S I I
THE ORIGINAL GRAPE JUICE H
Keeley H
Mcdonald jce S,'wfth AUda 1
PERFECT Cream io 1
CHOCOLATES VjiedHI Flavors.
Best by Test ifll
Tho above articles with our sorvico will bo our specialty iH
for tho summer months H
Briggs Pharmacy Company H
THE SAN-TOX STORE. -jM
DOUBLE THE AMOUNT OF VOTES WITH ALL ICE ,H
CREAM AND CONFECTIONS. 'H
' m "'""" "" " iiiiil
Do You Say "Utah-Idaho"
When Ordering Sugar? WM
If you don'L order Then, why not take an iHp
"Utah-Idaho" what kind interest in this homo pro- BK
ol'BiiRardoyouKqtiSuio duct, ordor it overy timo HE
ly j'ou aro not satisfied to you havo occasion to ord- lBa
receive "any old kind." or bukhi. You aro sure Bw
of its porfnctnOHs and ill)- IBk
It has been proven by Koluto purity, liocaiiNt' it 9B:
the Tinted Stales Govern- in matin in. Kanttniy fe- 0tW'
mcnl, certain of tho torioH from raw nroduolts illiaf
States, noted Chemists iovn in tho most health HQKi
and Domestic Science ful climato in the world. fflffl
Teat'lierH that boot HUt?ar ind it travels so short a MMfol
is as pure and as ood jis distance to vour tablo that JKkiS
any highly refined sunar there is no possible chance HfiB
mnde. Tho same nmounl for 1U0 become contamin- HB
of Utah-Idaho Suar will nted in transit. HB
accomplish Iho same rps- H
nils, as auv oilier stiKar Place vour next order iHI
volt can buv. JVr "Ulah-ldaho." IHH
UtahIdaho Sugar
ABSOLUTELY PURK iVI
, rH
wy mi ii I ii I i II ''MiilHJJI piptll 'MIIM'wyHi I mi ii ii I H
