onopah Daily Bonanza
metal'uuj i A .
Silver 87
Copper 28
Lead 7.iVi
GOV'T FORECAST
Generally cloudy to
night and Sunday
PRICE 10 CENTS
VOL XV-NO. 277
TONOPAH, NEVADA, SATURDAY EVENING, MARCH 18, 1916
ECISIVE HOUR IN WAR . RELATIONS WITH MEXICO
HAS NOW BEEN REACHED PASSING CRUCIAL P01N
Tension in Prance Relaxes, Due NO ADVANCES MADE BY
n a n X
T0 KSnrSr et" GERMANS UPON VERDUN
Villa Said to Now be 110 Miles
South of Casas Grandes,
Near Las Cruces
(By Associated Press.) "
PARIS, Mur. 18. "We liave reached the decisive hour," said Alex-
ander Ribot, nilnlBter of finance, speaking In the chamber of deputies
on the financial and military situntion. "We can say without exaggera-
Hon, without Illusion, without vain optimism, that we now see the end
of this horrible war." Rihot's utterance Is taken to be of the utmost
importance, Indicating the official opinion regarding the outcome of the
battle of Verdun. Tension In France has relaxed.
(By Associated Press.)
LONDON, Mar. 18. Since the nii-ssed attacks on Thursday night against
the village of Fort Vaux, northeast of Verdun, the Germans have not advanced
at any point on the defenses of the fortress, according to Paris. Last night
was passed without infantry activity, and even artillery action is described as
intermittent. Reports of developments of importance are lacking on other
war fields. There appears to be Increasing military activity in the Balkans.
Heavy troop movements in Bulgaria: are reported from Bucharest.
(By Associated Press.)
EL PASO, Mar. 18. Villa is in the neighborhood of Las Crnces,
110 miles south of Casas Grandes, according to information received
here today by General Gavira of Juarez. Gavira asserted that a crisis
in the relations between the United States and Mexico is past and that
there is no further need to fear trouble.
ASSASSINS KILLED
NEAR MOUNT AIRY
MURDERERS OF OFFICIALS KILL
ED AT REFUGE IN A WO
MAN'S HOME
I lly AiMiM'lnlifl lri. I
ROANOKE, Mar. 18. Jack Allen
and his brothers Sidna and Floyd,
leaders of the gang that assassinat
ed officials in the Carroll county court
house at llillHVille, were killed last
night at the home of Mrs. Burt Mar
tin, near Mount Airy, North Carolina.
Will McGraw, who disappeared after
the shots were heard, is being sought
JAVANESE SHIPPING
ENJOYING A
PLANS 10 CONTINUE
WAR UNDER WATER
NATIONAL LIBERAL GROUP WILL
INTRODUCE MEASURE IN
REICHSTAG
II ADMIRAL VOli TIRPITZ RESIGNED HUMDREO THOUSAND DOLLARS FOR VILLA
l.y 4MM-tnte1 I'rraa.l
BERLIN, Mar. 18. The national
liberal group in the Reichstag has de
cided to introduce in this session its
measure calling for the carrying on
of submarine war.
(By Associated Press.)
LONDON, Mar. 18. A Rome disptach says: "The retirement of. Admiral
Von Tlrpti, as German minister of marine, was occasioned by his Intention
to attack Great Britlan with the entire German navy. The plan was vetoed,
according to advices, by Emperor William and Prince Henry."
CORRESPONDENTS 10 BE HELD LIABLE
(By Associated Press.)
COLUMBUS, Mar. 18. New orders have been issued holding every corres
pondent accountable for his dispatches under the natlonnl defense act. "The
man who gets a scoop Is an arch criminal," said Major Sample, commanding
at Columbus. "I have evidence enough to bring several correspondents under
the federal law." -
NIPPONESE ARE TAKING FULL
ADVANTAGE OF THE REQUIRE
. MENTS OF THE WAR
SLIDES CONQUERED
AT CULEBRA CUT VISITORS PLEASED
WITH THE CASH BOY
THE PANAMA CANAL COMMITTEE
MAKES ITS REPORT TO THE
GOVERNMENT
I lly ANnm-titlril I'm.)
WASHINGTON. D. C Mar. 18.
Navigation through the Panama Canal
is not likely again to be seriously in
SPLENDID ORE SHOWING ON TWO
LEVELS OF THIS WESTERN
ZONE PROPERTY
.
Among the visitors today to the
I My Aamtjlr4 I'rrai. I
TOKIO. Mar. 18 The great boom
and prosperity for Japanese shipping i the great purpose for which the water- considerable Interest because of the
TODAY AND A YEAR AGO
terrupted by Blides, and realization of Cash Boy mine, which is attracting! Relative humidity at 2 p. m
as the result of the war is being taken
advantage of here to the utmost, tor
tunes are making In the shipping busi
ness and prices for freight steamers
have -risen to practically limitless
figures.
The continuing demand for more
ships has induced the Japanese de
partment of communications to sum
marize the exact situation of Japan
ese shipping. The. Investigation
shows that Japan's progress Is not due
to the war alone, .though It has of
course been immensely stimulated by
It, but haa been going on for the last
fifteen years. Japan now has 2,i:t2
- vessels of over twenty tons register
with a total tonnage of 1,604,900 while
the number of vessels of over 1,000
tons is 416 with a total tonnage of
1.3,'1L308. There are 66 merchant
steamships, each of 5,000 tons, or over
now sailing under the flag of Japan
Six new freight-carrying steamships
have been launched within a month
The shortage of shipbuilding ma
terlal la being felt in all docks, but as
far as the stock is available the work
Is being nusbed on day and night and
some shipowners have even offered
prizes for the completion of a snip ue
fore contract dales. A striking exam
pie of quick building was the steamer
Talsho Maru. recently completed for
the Hokuyo Steamship company which
was launched within three months
and a half after the laying of the keel
and trimmed for navigation In three
weekB. That a ship of 3,000 tons wa
coninleted in such a short period I
a record in the annals of Japanese
uhlnhllllrifnff.
JaDan's great commercial fleet has
come into existence since 1884 when
Vapoft really1 began to build ship
way was constructed Is assured In the recent discoveries of excellent ore,
near future, according to the tinning! were H. G. Lower and Jack Mcyuil-
tif a committee of scientists appoint
ed bv the National Acamedy of
Sciences at the request of President
Wilson to Investigate the problem.
While the committee realizes that
slides may be a considerable mainten
ance-charge upon the canal tor a
number of years, it believes there will
be little trouble after present difficul
ties have been overcome.
A summary of a preliminary report
lan. The Bonanza was Invited to send
a member of its staff, but the superior
knowledge of the two mining men
mentioned was deemed of greater
value to the readers of this paper.
They report practically the same re
garding the property:
On the 1348 level the east drift has
encountered two feet of ore and is ap
parently Just getting into the shoot.
The values range trom $12 to $40 to
Official readings of the ther-
mometer by the United States
4 observer at Tonopah.
U. S. Weather Bureau
1916 1915
5 a. m .". 45" 55
9 a. m. 48 " 58
12 noon .... 44 52
2 p. m. 47 65
s
today, 40 per cent.
(By Associated Press.)
EL PASO, Mar. 18 The American cavalrymen camped at dawn at Col
onia Dublnn, one of the environs of Casas Grandes. Through Colonla Dublan
runs the road to Galeana district, where Villa was last definitely reported.
News of the encampment at Colonia Dublan has dispelled the fears of any
disputes with Constitutionalist authorities over what position the American
troops should occupy at Casas Grandes. At least $100,000 Is available in re
wards for Villa's capture. Half of this is offered by ranchmen in northern Chi
huahua and another fifty thousand is offered through Colonel Slocum, com
mander of the thirteenth cavalry.
RATTLE IN PROGRESS III OURAIIGO REGION
(By Associated Press.)
TOUREON, Mar. 18. Fighting has been In progress since yesterday, be
tween Constitutionalists and Villastas at Canon Chorrltes. Reports reached
here that twenty-six were killed and thirty captured. A battle between Con
sul utiomilists and so-called "Pacificists" is in progress somewhere in tbe
region of Durango.
PRESIDENT APPROVES
FOUR MISSING FROM
ILL FATED T
OF MILITARY BILL
DEBATE ON MEASURE WILL NOT
BE CONCLUDED THIS
EVENING
VICE PRESIDENT OF
S. P. WILL PAY
OFFICIALS WILL BE MET BY BUSI
NESS MEN AND SHOWN ABOUT
THE CITY
T
by the committee was made public the ton. The vein is an intrusion in
yesterday at the While House. No West End rhyolite and has an east
time was set when the canal can be and west strike with a north dip. It is
opened for navigation, but it was said widening and bids fair to become a
that "ibis time is not far off. valuable asset of the company, l ne
Excessive rainfall was found to be vein Is not yet classified with relation-
one of the chief causes for the slides ahip to system of the district.
and control of the railing water was The big showing is on the 14;i8 level,
the most Important remedy suggested. I The shoot has been opened by drift-
The committee made detailed recom- ng for from 40 to 50 feet, but this
mendations for the prevention of Uy no means repreesnts its actual
slideB In the future. length, it Beems that the ore was
Although the committees final re- Btruck on its apex, as it materially im
port will not be ready until April, Win. proves in-the winze that is being sunk.
II. welch, president oi tne araaemy The ore is from 2 to more man a
has transmitted to President Wilson feet in width. It is rhodenite with
a preliminary report of the commit- black sulphides peppered Into it. In
tee prepared by Charles R. Van Hise, places there are streaks of black
president of tne i niverstiy oi wis- metal fully an Inch thick, under tne
cousin, chairman; General H. L. Ab- hanging wall the ore is particularly
boll, corps of engineers United Slates cean. With depth the values, already
THE AMERICAN CONSUL SWEARS
THAT VESSEL WAS SUNK
BY TORPEDO
urmy; John l;. manner, geologist ana
former president of Stanford Unlver
sily; Whitman Cross, geologist in the
Uniled States geological survey; R.
0. Carpenter, professor of mechanical
engineering In Cornell University;
Arthur P. Davis, chief of the recla
mation service, Washington; John R.
Freeman, constructing engineer, Pro
vidence; J. F. Hayford, dean of the col
lege of engineering, Northwestern
nr Iron For a period or aooiu zuu liniversltv! Ilarrv Fielding Keld. pro-
years, between the seventeentn ana ' f,,KBor f engineering, John Hopkins
I ll- ANMoHntrit 1'ma.l
WASHINGTON, Mar. 18 Two offi
cers and the lookout of the Dutch liuer
Tubantla, the American consul at Am
steram reported: "I swear the steam
er was torpedoed." He said the pas
sengers were of .the same opinion
Four persons are missing.
SECRETARY DANIELS
PRESSES THE BUTTON
illy Anum'lntril I'ivrh.1
WASHINGTON, Mar. 18. The
house military bill, the president's
own bill, came under discussion. Chair
man Hay, of the military committee,
informed the house when the debate
on the measure was resumed on the
ten hour rule: "I may say," he assert
ed in reply to a question, "In broad
language that this is the president's
bill; he thoroughly approves of it."
The debate probably will not be com
pleted tonight, as was expected.
r.
NATIONAL GUARDSMEN
HAVE MOTOR BATTERY
nineteenth centuries, the building of
-over 50 tons net was prohibited by
the government and it was not until
the arrival of Commodore Perry from
the United States that Japan became
awakened to the necessity ot laying
University.
"The committee looks to the future
of the canal with confidence," the re
port declares. "It is not unmindful of
the labor necessary to deal with the
nieaent slides, and it realizes that
'down ocean-going vessels. The first Hndes may be considerable, but not
steel vessel was built In 1890. I nn unreasonable large maintenance
e I rharge upon the canal for a number of
Social dance Saturday evening In' years; it also realizes that troii e
in tne ruieura oisirici mny pimmuij
again close the canal. Nevertheless,
the committee firmly believes that,
after the present difficulties have
been overcome, navigation through
the canal Is not likely again to be
seriously Interrupted. There is ab
solutely no justification for the state
mcnt that traffic will be repeatedly in
The net profit earned by the 4 terrupted during long periods ror years
Tonouah llnimnnr nnvolm.meni A to come. The canal will serve the
company for the month . of Feb- great purpose for which it was con
excellent, seem to be improving.
The visitory judge from the map
i l he si riae was made fully loo
feet from the Merger endline and well
within the sidelines ot the property.
The second shipment of ore Is now
being gotten ready for the mill. Three
hundred feet west of the drift a very
interesting development is taking
place. A drift is being run through
trnchyte to a contact with the cap
rock, where mineralization is expecieu.
DARING AVIATOR WOUNDED
Illy AHiHalnlrfl l'rMH.
WASHINGTON, Mar. 18. Secre
tary Daniels, acting for the president,
touched a button at the White House,
signaling across the continent for the
dedication of the exposition at San
Diego.
Miners' hall. Good music, Adv.MHti
BELMONT AND BUTLFR
FEBRUARY PROFITS
ruary was $108,221,86. Although
this was a short month, the profit
was considerably above the aver-
age. This was due not to addl-
tional tonnage, but to a better
grade of ore and the appreciation
in the price of silver. .
The profits of the Jim Butler
Tonopah company during Feb-
ruary were $25,512.42. This Is a
little below the average, due to
depreciation of tonnage, which
was sacrificed for development
work.
niriii'ted. and the realization of that
purpose In the near future Is assured."
MOTOR EQUIPMENT FOR RENO
EMERGENCY LOANS
'lly Aaaorlalrd PtMll
NEW YORK. Mar. 18. The first ar
mored motor battery to he organized
in the United States will be mustered
by the New York national guard
Suturday night. The equipment cost
more than $100,000. There . will be
eight or 10 cars in the battery, with
chassis bult of thick armor piate
steel, armed with revolving machine
guns and propelled by high-powered
motors, capable ot driving the heavy
trucks at high speed.
PROSPECTORS IN EVIDENCE
E. O. McCormack, vice president of
the Southern Pacific railway company,
accompanied by other officials, con
voyed by J. M. Fulton, assistant gen
eral freight and passenger agent, will
arrive from the north by special train
Monday morning and will spend sev
eral hours here, before continuing on
south.
Mr. McCormack is greatly gartified
by the reports that he has received
from subordinates relative to this
camp, its present and its future and
is also pleased with the heavy ton
nage for this district which hiB com
pany Is receiving. He will make a per
sonal inspection and do what he can
to improve transportation conditions.
While here the party will be received
by local citizens and given auto rides
to points of interest, including the
mines and mills.
Not In years has there been so many
prospectors in the hills of Churchill
and adjoining counties. Scarcely a
day passes but that one or more out
fits are fitted out in Fallon. The re
cent advance in the prices on all
metals and the demand for rare metals
The state board of revenue has au-lins stimulated the "desert rats" to
thorized Humboldt, Churchill, Storey, I unwonted activity. The undoubted ap
Elko, White Pine, Clark and Lyon proach of spring has contributed its
counties to make emergency loans to, hare in causing feet to itch and the
join the co-operative campaign to De' oan f ti,e wild to become irresuuie.
NEWSPAPER PEOPLE GUESTS
Jules Smith had an open house at
the Butler last evenmg for the news
paper people of Tonopah and the art
preservative was liberally represen
ted. It was a play that thrilled to
the marrow all engaged in the busi
ness of newspaper making, entitled,
"The Fourth Estate." The scenes
were largely laid In the mammoth
plant of the Chtcago Herald and were
extremely realistic.
SUNDAY SCHOOLS TO MEET
Illy Anm-liltril lrkHM.I
PARIS, Mar. 18 Sergt. Pilot Geo.
(iuvnemer of the flying corps, one of
the most daring French aviators, has
been wounded. Last Sunday he
brought down his eighth enemy aero
plane. He Is 21 years old.
HERE FROM FORTUNA
Jack Walters returned from For
tuna, Utah, where he has three promis
ing gold claims. Adjoining Mr. Wal
ters' claim is property that is bonded
tor $150,000. He will return to For
luna about the first of the month.
waged for the extermination of rabies
n i ne state.
FISH UNDER SIZE TAKEN
TEMPERATURE REPORT
Highest temperature yesterday,
66;
a year ago, bi.
Lowest, temperature last night, 4,i
a year ago, 44.
The Pacific board of Are Insurance
underwriters has recommended the
lnHt-nllutlon of motor apparatus In each
of the Reno fire houses to replace the
horse-drawn trucks. The action of
the underwriters is the result of an
inquiry in the practicability of the
move And the result of an inquiry as
to how the Reno service might be
brought up to the highest efficiency.
STEAMER TORPEDOED
III AaMAfl-llllfHl I'rriH.)
LONDON. Mar. 18 The stenmship
Piiiemtuinir has been torpedoed. The
crew was saved.
The Nevada fish and game warden
recently seized 30 undersized fish in
a Reno market and caused tne owners
of the business to lie arrested. The
owners protested that the fish were
taken in California. The uaiiiornia
As a conseauence we look forward
lo one ot the most exciting and pro
ductive years in the history of Ne
vada mining. Churchill Standard.
--
WILL CONTINUE RELIEF WORK
The permanent relief committee,
which was originally the committee
for the municipal Christmas tree, now
finds itself, after accomplishing much
officials have been notified of the ac-' good work, without funds for continu-
linn hv the Nevada eame warden and Ing its efforts, mere are sun u uuj
co-operation is expected by the Reno
officers.
CANDIDATES ANNOUNCED
Orlando McCraney has announced
his candidacy for the long term trus
teeship of the public schools. L. A.
Herring is candidate for the short
term. The election will take place
Saturday, April 1. Registration will
be from the 22nd to the 25th.
SHAKESPEAREAN SCHOLAR DEAD
Illy AhkooIhImI lren.l
PHILADELPHIA, Mar. 18. Joseph
Psrker Norris. Jr.. widely known
inriiirentii needing: assistance and a
meeting of the committee will Bhortly
be called be devise ways and means
for continuing the relief worn.
A PROSPECTIVE MILLIONAIRE
The mysterious disappearance of
Tom Love was explained wnen ne re
turned lsxt night, bronzed and cal
loused from his prospecting expedition.
He had quite a load of specimens. His
property is known as tne y-auig in
A WELCOME GIFT
MlS'sFN GEOROIK AND IRENE Shakespearean scholar and prominent
EvEY are up from Millers for member of the Philadelphia bar. died
.h- rt .lalttne friends. I today. He was S jeers old.
The annual convention ot Nevada
Sunday schools will hold a session in
Winnemucca next, month. Officials of
the International Sunday School asso
ciation have arrived in Reno and are
making arrangements for the conven
tion. April 27 will probably ne set
as the date for the session In Winnemucca.
The Tonopah Bonanza force greatly
onnrapintoa ft irift from the Anheuser-
Bush Brewing company, consisting of
e caae ot BudwelBer beer and assort
ed malt. Here's looking.
BUTLER
THEATRE
TONIGHT
CHARLES CHAPLIN
In
"THE KNOCKOUT"
A Two-Reel Chaplin Comedy
And
A Vitagraph Blue Ribbon Feature
"THE GREAT DIVIDE"
America' Greatest Play
With Ethel Clayton and House
Peters, in part made famous
by Henry Miller
Produced in Grand Canyon
TOMORROW
Paramount-Bray Cartoon Comedy
(Something New)
And
The Internationally Famous
Comedienne
"THE MARRIAGE OF KITTY"
A Lasky Production
