CAVALRY OVERHAULING VILLA
Seattle Wants No "Pork"; A Square Deal, That's All!
THE United-State* senate Km passed Sen. Poinde xter's bill, appropricting two million odd dollars to b
spent in making the Bremerton navy yard available for battleship construction. It is an administra
tion preparedneas measure. Secretary Daniels assisted Sen. Poindexter in the preparation of the bill. The
mrsiure has now gone to the house. If the house passes it, the money will brcome available AND SE
ATTLE, SPOKANE. TACOMA—THE WHOLE STATE, AS WELL AS THE NAVY YARD TOWNS,
WILL FEEL THE STIMULUS OF AN INCREASFD PAYROLL. AN INCREASED POPULATION OF
SKILLED MECHANICS. A LEGITIMATE PREPAREDNESS-PROSPERITY.
Naval experts who have appeared before the house and senate naval affairs committees during the
recent hearings have agreed, almost unanimously, that the Bremerton naval yard offers unexcelled natur
al advantages for a great naval post. This opinion seemed to be the general one until, yesterday. Ad
miral Benson told the house naval affairs committee the appropriation ought to be spent on Mare island
instead of Puget Sound.
A Chosce feir
PlesQMmall
Y( >t"RK sure to enjoy yourself next
week if. after you get home, you
sit down in that easy chair of your*
and read "The Maxwell Mystery," by
Carolyn Wells, which, beginning Mon
day. will appear in mx daily install
ment!) iu The Star.
BANDIT 30 MILES AWAY; EXPECT BATTLE SOON
"Tra-la-la! Pancho- American War!"
GIVE EVIDENCE
TO GRAND JUDY
Immigration Commissioner White
and custom* official* are preparing
Saturday to preaeot to tne federal
grand Jtrry nsxt week <*vldenc»
agalDßt the "Yellow Owl*," alleged
smuggling ring. *ald to have con
ducted more than 11,600,000 wortn
of illegal traffic in opium and
alien* during the l»*t four year*.
Some of the 29 alleged member*
of the ring have already been In
dicted.
Others. now Id the Pierre county
*ail. are not ret accuMd, altho
iw are said to have confessed
Wearch In being made for the
agMiinch Maud K , said to have been
••nerated by William Klrklanil, now
th*r arrent, ard for ilx Oriental*
r*< aped from the Immigration
yfaflon here after being smuggled
f Into Seattle from Vancouver
IT g""»*" A LOT BUT LEE SAID HOT; ITS ODOR WAS BAP BUT LEE WAS THE LAP WHO HELD HIS NOSE AS HE AROSE AND SAID IT WAS SWEET AND LOVELY AMD HEAT
THE Htone tk Webster franchise for street railways In Seattle,
virtually amounting to a monopoly. efplren In 15.14. r
It still had 19 yew* to run when the legislature met at
Olympla, In January. J'ilO. . . „ ,
One fine day Senator Taylor of King county cnlmly Introduced
Senate Bill 4®.
It wu so rr»nk an attack upon the fundamental right* of Hie city
of Seattle and of a!| other cltlee when any corporation had fran
. blsen that, at first 'at the beginning of th»- nesslon I. no one believed
It had any serious chance of passing Thin notion wan quickly din
i.eljefl however, when, as dav after day went by. It was apparent
that the Stone Webster corporation waa very much In control of the
legislature.
Parenthetically It may be staled here that the Stone K Webster
'orporatlon not only owns the <«tr<iet railway system In Seattle, hut
aino In I aroma. Belllngliam. the Interurhan linen, nnd other elec
trie aystems In the Northwest.
i • ■ • •
Senate Bill No. 4« provided that eslstlng franchises were
to become "indeterminate"—that Is, neverending. perpetual.
It provided that no new franchises may be grante-l by
either city or state In any city or district where a similar
franchise already was In existence.
It provided for the elimination of all control of such util*
HOLDS OFF EXPOSE
Hodge Hopeful Woman Will Give Up
Confidant that attorney*
for Mra. leabei Clayburg, ae
cuaed of conspiracy to black
mail Samuil I. Silverman,
wealthy mining promoter, and
other Seattle men of promi
nence, will abandon todiy
their effort* to block her extre
dltlon from California, wa* ex
preaaed Saturday by Sheriff
Hodge.
Appeal* for a writ of habe#* cor
pus to prevent her being brought
here for trial have lo*t In the «u
--perlor court at l<o* Ang'N**,
where *he i* In cuatody, and In the
*tate district court of appeal*.
Her attorney* will sppeir s*tur
dav In the Cnlted S»at«-* dlatrlct
court at I-o* Angel'*. but a tel.
icwtm received by Hh' riff Hodge
from Deputy M K Hally. who I*
In California. Intimated that h<- e*
pected Mr* Clayburg to abandon
The Seattle Star
I THE ONLY PAPER IN SEATTLE THAT DARES TO PRINT THE NEWS t
VOLUME 18
the fight today.
In view of thl* fart, Hodge *ald
he would await the outcome of
the hearing before taking more
dra*tlc itep* to bring her hark.
Ho threatened FHday to eipoae
wealthy victim* of the alleged
"badger*," who, he *atd, are fur
nl*hlng fund* to hack her fight,
utile*! they withdrew from the af
fair and re.i*ed thefr effort* to
hamper the of Ju*tlce."
"If Mr*. Clayburg I* allowed to
come hack here for trial peaceful
ly, there will lie no iiece«*lty for
doing Ihl*. nnd the victim* will be
ahMded from notoriety a* far »*
possible," said llodge
WEATHER FOP EC. ABT
Tonight nrd Sunday, partly
cloudy, occasionally threaten
Ing.
Ity corporation* by cltlea: that the Seattle Electric Co. and
other railways need not pay any share of the coat of paving
of street* where the car tracks ran, as formerly had been
the rule; that th« company need pay cities nothing for the
privilege of the franchise, eliminating even the present 2 per
cent payment of the gross receipts; that cities were to have,
no jurisdiction rates or service
• • • • •
Senator Taylor did not draft Senste ftlll 46.
No one nufpectad lie did
It wan Stone Wehwter work Norwood Hrockett, attorney for tbo
corporation, finally had to admit It.
lie admlm-d Its Stone-Webster origin 111 a statement to the hell
lite committee on January 2«. 1915 lie nml Jamen It. Ilowe. anoth
er Htone Webster attorney, were In Olympla lo lobby for the bill.
Ilrocket! could afford to Hdmlt It. fur the corporation had the
committee under Its thumb TIIK HIM, WAS RKt'OMMKNDKD K)ll
I'AHSAOK.
When the stale at large realized that Senate Hill 46 actually had
a chance of pannage, a ntorm of proteM arore
on Kebrimry 1 a debate wns held In the Seattle Commercial
Club, and George A. I.ee, formerly public mrvlce cotnnilm'lciior, now
a candldatu for governor, defended Senate HUI <*'.
SI \ I I l I . w KSH., SVI URDA\. MARt M 18. 1916.
ALLPARTS
OF CITY TO
GET MUSIC
Park Board Change* It»
Policy on Fret Park
Concert!
AGREE UPON PROGRAM
Mimic In all tha park* and at
tha favorita baachaa. Inelualva
of a Mriaa of M opanalr Sun
day band concarta and iHftt
pratantioua "aymphony aftar
nooni," to ba atagad In Voiun
tHf park by IN Saattla Phil
harmonic afchaatra!
Fiva won*
of archaatral malody, all ton.
dtatrlbutad. ahara and ahara
a ilk a, to awary taction of tha
city I
That I* the edict of the park rom
mlaaton. iinanlmoualy adopted Fri
day afternoon. when It *a» an
nounced that the ooroplrtp chanite
of poller »aa oeeaaloned by a dealre
to KIT* all the people the heneflt of
thla year'a music appropriation, and
to avoid th« rl*hteou* rrltlclem of
the pre*
According to provlalona of the mil
ale hill. Waaner'a hand will he em
ployed for 12 concert*. Cavanatigh'a
for 11. Adama' new band for to. and
the Philharmonic orcheatra for
ihree
Provjalon alao la made for aev
eral concert* hy »he Firemen'a and
Policemen's hands, brlnsln* the to
tal number of coocerta for the attm
mer up to more than 4P .
"Wi want the public 10
know," «aid Park Commleeloner
Lamping, whan tha bill wai ap
provad, "that tha policy of thla
board haa changed alnca laat
■ummir,
"We want to try to aatlafy tha
public with what money wa
hava, by dlatrlbutlng tha con
carta among tha parka and out
lying pleaeure reaorte."
ANOTHER BLOW
FOR THE KAISER
Representing tha Invaatmant
of $ 1,000,000 by ita Carman
owntra, tha property, mine,
bunker* and machinery of the
laaaquah A Superior Coal Mln.
ing Co., at leaaquah, were aold
by the aharlff Saturday.
The Northern Bank A Truat Co..
which hold a Judgment In the «uin
og 129M17.76 asalnat the colli
puny, bid In the greater portion of
the property at that price
Alvo Von Alvenaleben. aald to
have l>een tlm agent in the North
went for the Herman kal*er, and
Llent Walter Haeltz, of the Gkrtnan
army, organ iced the company heie,
and obtained the loan from the
bank four year* ago
Von Alvennlelien Is snld to have
Invented 113,000,000 belonging to
the llohf n*nll« rn Imperial estate
In Northwest properties.
If this is true, the good and prtriotic citiecn* cf Seattle should be the first to subordinate their own
selfish desires, and to say that the Mare island yard should have the money. SEATTLE AND THE
STATE OF WASHINGTON WANT NO "PORK." But if the Bremerton yard is, as many experta
have said, the better placr for a great naval base, THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES AT WASH
INGTON OUGHT TO BE VIGOROUSLY REMINDED OF THE FACT. Seattle will be satisfied to
have the question decided on ITS MERITS.
In the opinion of ITie Star, the passage by the senate of the Poindexter bill, appropriating this
$2,000,000 fund, was of vital importance to Seattle. THE IMMEDIATE STIMULUS TO PROSPER
ITY. MOREOVER. IS NOT THE MAIN POINT. IT MEANS THAT THE PUGET SOUND COUN
TRY IS TO BE PROPERLY PROTECTED IN THE SCHEME OF NATIONAL DEFENSE.
In view of these facts, The Star is somewhat surprised because Seattle's booster organizations have
shown so little disposition to enthuse over this big, worth-while proposition.
Col. Dodd's Men Gain
ing Rapidly; Infan
try Sets New Record
for Quick March.
SAN ANTONIO, March 18.—An engagement be-
tween American troop* and Villa's force* may come
toon CHAMBERLAIN BILL OUT
Col. Dodd's column is at Ciui Grandes, it is be
lieved by Maj. Gen. Funston. According to the best
information, Villa ia 30 mile* aouth. Funston expect*
a clash shortly if Villa stands his ground.
Brig. Gen. Pershing's cavalry is within supporting
distance of Dodd's command. They may possibly effect
a junction tortiorrow.
From Hachita, where the troops started, to Caaitr
Grandes ia 100 miles. Funston said the average march
ing distance of 50 miles a day was one of the finest rec
ords of the American army. Smaller picked forces might
have done better, but for a large body of men to make
that speed over rough desert is remarkable.
Pershing wirelessed Funston particulars with regard
to the disposition of troops comprising his main column.
No reports have been received of any American
casualties or of a clash with Villa.
BELIEVE VILLA HAS SPLIT FORCE
By H. C. Boehme
United Preaa Staff Correapondent.
DOI'GLAS, Ariz., March IS The American expedition
into Mexico will face the crisis of its campaign in the first
possible skirmish, observers here believed today.
If the predicted general peon uprising against the Ameri
can forces comes, it will be because of distorted news circu
lated among ignorant peons that the Americans have killed
Mexicans on their native soil.
Those in close touch with Mexican affair* declared the
supreme test of grudging I'arran/ista co-operation and of the
peon attitude would cyme when the United States soldiers
fire their first volley.
Settlers front K1 Tigrc heard the divisions had united be
tween (iuzman and Awencion. It is reported that Villa ha<l
divided his command, leaving a strong force to battle the
American vanguard and draw it off his trail, while he con
tinues his flight in another direction, with a few picked men.
W'lulc reports of Carraruista friendliness have been wide
ly circulated, friction with customs officials is noticeable here.
U. S. ASKS FOR USE OF RAILROADS
WASHINGTON, March 18 —
Altho Secretary Baker would
not comment, It w»a learned
today the government will **k
or haa aaked permlaalon to ua?
Mexican railwaya for military
purpoaaa.
Funaton aaked the war de
partment to obtain thla per
mlaa In n
mtaaivx- ,
Should t'nrranza grant I nit
ed States leave to use Mexlcit
i nllroadn for military purines, tin
army would solve one of Its mos
difficult problems
Kood. ammunition and watei
could be transported by rail safefc
I,en was drawn Into the fight by the Stone-Webster corporation
as a sort of expert, on account of bis having been a member of the
slate public service commission.
lie came thru In fine shape.
However, It noon became apparent that there was 100 much agi
tation agalnnt Senate Hill 46, and the Stone Webster people decided
to droikll AN 11 TO SCHSTITI TK A NKW HIM*
Tmn ncAv lilll wan then known an Substitute Hill No. 40. IT WAS
DRAWN' BY OICOROK A. I.KK. and, with two or three minor changes,
IT WAS AS VICIOUS AS TIIK OSUGINAIj, I'rotems Were an nu
merous as ever. Senators were getting a bit nervous about panning
It The number "46" had become synonymous with "corporation con
trol." •
So another subterfuge was adopted. The "46" measure was al
lowed to slumber, while Senate 1111 l 300 came to the front It was
no different from "46" In the Important features, but It had a new
number It was known a* "The Brockett and Lee" bill.
or Senate IHII t'.OO the l,ee and Hroekett bill -Ooorg<> 10, Wright,
n prominent attorney of Seattle, law partner of Corporation Coun
sel elect Caldwell, hblil; "This act makes to existing public utility
corporations, without consideration, what is perhaps the most prince
ly donation ever m»rie by any American state to private irtorests."
Attorney General Titnner, whoae rea tlonar> tendonites lire
well known, iiuveilheleßK vvub frank cnotish to bay "f this bill: "Sen
one cent r
and nut< My
A direct line to Caaas Oroide* la
drawn hy the Mexico Northwest
ern It R.
II la believed that the govern
ment at leant will Informally r«v
qii' at nae of the trackx. Officials
are uncertain an to whether Car
raiuu la In a |«>sltlon to grant It.
Indication* are that nil la quiet
along the border.
It wis noted among reports
received today that fire had de
ntroyed the Montere\ bathhouse
and postofflre. There wns no In
dic\tlon of revolutionary activity,
however.
TAJ^T
Jy EDITION X
REP. HAY'S
BILL O.K/D
BY WILSON
May Tells House Measure Is
Practically President's
Own
WASHINGTON, March 18 —
Praaldant'a Wllaon'a indoraa
mant of Rap. Hay'a bill Inerasa-
Ing tha army to 140,000 paace
strength was announced by
Hay from the floor during the
% debate today.
Hay asserted the measure
was practically the president's
» bin.
At the same time the senste
military committee reported
on Senator Chamberlain's bill
In a different form, embodying
a different principle.
Chamberlain's bill, as reported
out, provides for a maximum regu
lar army strength of 254.000, a fed
eralized mllltli of 280,000. and a
federal reserve force of Ml.ooo.
Differs From Hay Bill
Cbamterlala's measure differs
radically from that of Hay. win on.
poses the federal reserve and the
j federal mllitiv Chamberlain's In
sists on a federal reserve and sub
)e< ts the National Guard to severe
fed -ral discipline and Inspection.
The Chamberlain bill enlists reg
ulars for six years.
Hut at the end of the first year
and of each year thereafter, a sol
dier may l>e examined, and. If
found efficient, he may return to
civil life as a reserve for the rest
of his term, subject to call only
In cas» of war.
!>urlng the house debate. Mann
objected to the president's plan,
forecasting minority opposition
'The hill falls far short of what
ought to be provided at this time,"
declared Mann "After having
troops on the border for four years
In contemplation of what has now
occurred, no troops were ordered
across the liorder until the house
had passed a resolution increasing
the armv by 20,000 men.
Demands Bigger Army
"There was never a more patent
Illustration of the fact that while
the Increas" now proposed Is suf
ficient for peace times. It is not suf
flclent ev< n for a miniature war.
We are the greatest rf*>utral na
tion. and exi>ect to speak with
soma authority. Who would p*y
any attention to one of the small
American republics. Would Great
Britain * Would Germany'
"This hill adds only "0.000 men.
"It would he wiser and cheaper
to prepare amply now for trouble
which may come. If it does not
come, we will be getting off cheap
ly In both money and blood."
Wilson for Hay Bill
When the house debate on the
Hay bill opened. Hay stld:
"I am authorised by the presi
dent to state that this Mil has his
approval. It embodies the admin
istration's Ideas and goes further
The preslil tit thinks the till!
makes th- militia an efficient force
In war time."
nte Bill 300 It the moit vicious piece of legislation ever introduced
In any legislature anywhere."
In the senate. Senator Dan Ijuidon n progressive. was Joined by
Senato;- Ralph Nichols, a reactionary, in fighting the measure It
panted, however.
Hy this time a great wave of organised protest had swept tlio
state. Councllmen, mayors and city attorneys flocked to Olympla lo
protest The hill went lo the house.
There, amid great excitement, on the dav before the se»sion ad
journed. IT PASSED W ITH AMENDMENTS It went back lo the
senate again The senate would not accept the amendments and so,
on the last day of the session, the bi'l was killed by the narrowest
of margin*
IT WAS NOT OEORGB A I„EH'S FAULT. HOWEVER 11E
lIAI> DONE HIS UTMOST FOR THE STONE WEIISTER CORPOK
ATION
SO. WHEN. V SHORT TIME AGO, THE STONE-WEIISTER
CORPORATION CALLED ITS EDITORS AND PROMINENT MEN
IN' THE REPUULICAN PARTY INTO A SECRET CONFERENCE
TO PICK A SI.ATE, GEORGE A. LEE WAS PICKED FOR GOVERN
OR A NATURAL- A MOST NATURAL SELECTION.
AS GOVERNOR. I.EE WOULD HE A MIGHTY VALUABLE VC
QUISITION TO BTONE-WEHSTEK. AS THE STAR WILL EXPLAIN
ON MONDAY.
PROTESTS
ATTACK ON
OUR YARD
Chamber Challenges Misstate
ments of Admiral at
Washington
TELEGRAMS ARE SENT
The national affair* commit
tee of the Chamber of Com
merce Satuiday afternoon
wired protest* to Washington,
D. C., against misstatement*
made Thursday by Admiraf
Berson reflscting on the Brenv
erton navy yard location for ■
government building of bat- (
tlesftlps. • «
Telegrams were
ex-Senator files, chairman •# lit*
committee, to e»ch memb r of llm
Washington delegation and to Set
ttor Tlliman, chairman of the
naval affairs committee
Tillman visited the Hremortot*
vard lust sumtnw. and aided Se:;-
ator I'oindexter In ohtiininK th"»
passage of the $2,065,000 at ttrtv
prlaiioO to fit the yard up for t-liip
building |>uriK>ses.
It was oti this account th<»
Chamber asked him to help out
again In presenting the correct sit
uation before the house naval com
mittee.
To the Washington members of
congress, the chamber's committee
declared that "the whole state i*
astounded at the testimony of Ad
miral Hanson before the hunts
committee. - *
The telegram recites that tfcs
heat naval authorities have de
clared the llremerton site more fa
vorable. by far. than the Mara
Island yard, "regarding depth of
water, impregnability of location,
and strategic situation generally.''
Ilecords are undoubtedly avail
able and should b» called immedi
ately to the house committee's at
tention " the telegram concludes,
"in refutation of any misconcep
tion or Ignorance prevailing on the
advantages of this yard compared
with olhtr Pacific Const locations."
OPEN RECRUITING
OFFICE IN TACOMA
Arrangements were made to
open recruiting offices In Tncoma
PridUy as the first step In th<»
Northwest to sign 20.000 new men
for the regular 1". S. army.
RACE FOR MEMBERS
The opening rally of a content
membership campaign between Se
attle and Portland V. M C. A. a
was held last night nt the local as
sociation building
Ii was announced (hat members
will give out tree passes to anjr
turn interested fu (lie association,
and these will put It e the holJeri
to free use of all V >!. C\ A. prlvl
leges. Including gymnasium aiwl
pwlmming tank, for the rest or
March.
