THE COLFAX CHRONICLE
Absorbed the GRANT PARISH DEMOCRAT May 1, 1I
A Dcmocratic 3ournaL devotcd to Local and (cncral News, Literature, &cience, Bgriculturc, 6tc.
VOL. XL COLFAX, GRANT PARISH, LA., SATURDAY, MARCH 18, 1916 NUMBER 22
Judge Dubuison's Dilemma.
Judge E. B. Dubuisson of St.
Landry, nominated for attorney
general on Mr. Parker's mongrel
political ticket because the Dem
ocratic candidate for attorney
general, Judge A. V. Coco, had
the hardihood to criticise Mr.
Parker's politics in both French
and English, has discovered that
he occupies an anomalous posi
tion as the anointed of Mr. Park
er's self-instituted "convention."
Under the law Judge Dubuisson
is prohibited from becoming a
candidate for attorney general in
Mr. Parker's party, whatever
tHat party happens to be, be
cause only six weeks ago he vot
ed in the Democratic primary.
It was to "my life-long friend,
Dubuisson," that Mr. Parker
turned the other day at Eunice
when he was asked the point
blank question by Mr. James J.
Lewis whether or not he consid
ered it honorable for a Democrat
voting for either Mr. Barret or
Col. Pleasant in the primary to
vote for him in the general elec
tion. Judge Dubuisson was ready
with a long legal opinion as to
the right of a voter in the pri
mary, under the law, to disre
gard the primary results and vote
as he might deem fit in the gen
eral election. This, of course,
didn't answer Mr. Lewis' ques
tion, for the simple reason that
everybody knows it is not a mat
ter of law, but of honor and mor
Mr. Lewis didn't ask Mr.
it was LAWFUL to
knife th e of a primary
in which one h icipated,
but if it was HONO to
do so. Mr. Parker dodged and
Judge Dubuisson evaded the is
sue.
Farm and Home Study Clubs.
Tie extension Division of the
Louisiana State University is
sending out the following circu
lar letter to the farmers, to
which we call special attention
and hope a number of our pro
gressive farmers will take ad
vantage of the offer, viz:
In order to improve farm con
ditions and present methods of
farming we have decided" to or
ganize Farm and Home Study
Clubs in every community for the
benefit of all who desire to carry
a special line of reading, experi
mentation and investigation un
der the direction of the director
of the experiment station, the
State agent, the supervisor of
farm and home study clubs, the
specialists of the U. S. depart
ment of agriculture and the mem
bers.of the University faculty.
It will be the purpose of the
Farm and Home Study Clubs to
make a thorough and careful
study of soils, soil formation, soil
types, and soil improvement;
crops and crop rotations; live
stock, livestock farming, feeding,
dairying and poultry- farming;
orchading and gardening; eco
notnic farm problems; the farm
home and its scientific manage
ment.
A. ulo etm i4w Euwjllm ut ra a
Application for Enrollment as a Member of the Farm Study Clubs
To JOHN W. WILKINSON, Supervisor Farm Study Clubs,
University Station, Baton Rouge, La.,
I hereby make application for enrollment as a member of the
farm and Home Study Club and desire to take a special course of
reading and investigation in the following subjects:
Name of work desired .................................. ........
.................................................... o........... ................................
N am e .......................................... ........ ........ Age.........
Po to e ......................................... State...............R. F. D..... .
Site of farm...............acres Kind of soil.................... ...........
O ccupation... ............................... Crops Grown ....................
MYý..I. ......................... ...w.. .. ... .......
Now it transpires that while
Judge Dubuisson was armed with
a learned disquisition upon the
legal status of the voter who had
taken part in the Democratic
primary, he was in absolute ig
norance of his own status as a
candidate before the people. He
knew that the voter who had
taken part in a primary could le
gally bolt the nominees in the en
suing election, but he didn't
know that one who had voted in
the vrimary could not become a
candidate for office of an oppos
ing party in the election.
The only difference between
Judge Dubuisson and the aver
age voter who participated in the
primary of January 25 is that
Judge Dubuisson is forbidden by
law from playing the part of
traitot to the nominees of that
primary, while the law leaves
this question to the conscience
and sense of honor of the aver
age voter. The principle involv
ed is exactly the same.
Here the trite expression ap
plies very forcibly. Mr. Parker
and' his candidate for attorney
general are "hoist by their own
petard."--Shreveport Times.
Watch Child's Cough.
Cold4 running of nose, continued ir
ritation of the mucous membrane if
neglected may mean catarrh later.
Don't take the chances, do something
for your child! Children will not take
every medicink, but they will take Dr.
King's New Discovery and without
bribing or teasing. Its a sweet pleas
ant tar syrup and so effective. Just
laxative enough to eliminate the waste
poisons. Almost the first dose helps
Always prepared, no mixing or fussing.
Just ask your druggist for Dr. King's
New Discovery. It will safeguard
your child against serious ailments re
sulting from colds. -Adv.-2.
Subscribe for the Chronicle.
The starting point of this'work
will naturally be with soils. The
University and, experiment sta
tion will make free of charge
such analyses of soils and crops
as may be necessary in each in
dividual case, and will direct the
members of the Farm and Home
Study Clubs to such bulletins and
and reading matter as will show
the results of research and ob
servation on the problemls under
study, and by correspondence
will place them in communication
with specialists who will supply
any additional information that
may be needed.
Please urgeyour farmer friends
to take up this work and if it ap
peals to you let us enroll you
now. This work is free and is
yours for the asking. You can
enroll at any time, but we would
like to have you register now.
If you want to get our special
bulletins an this special service
fill out the folldwing application
blank and send it to me by re
turn mail. Also send me the
names of your friends that you
would like to have the benefit of
this.work. Respectfully,
JOHN W. WILKuNSON,
Supervisor of Farm Study Clubs,
Baton Rouge, La.
frmbe~r of the ffnrm RhawA~ Amh.
JUDICIAL SALE.
State of Louisiana. Parish of Rapides, Thirteenth
Judicial District Court.
Lee Lumber Company. Ltd.. vs. Sherman Cook
and M. L. Alexander.
No. 10.183.
By virtue of and to satisfy an order of lseizure
and sale Issued from the Honorable 13th Judie
ial District Court. and to me directed as sheriff
and ex-offlemo auctioneer of Rapldes parish. Lou
isiana. directing and commanding me to seise
and sell. for cash, to the last and highest bidder.
without btefit of appralsement, at public auc
tion, after legal advertisement and according to
law. the hereinafter described prolperty, I will
offer for sale to the last and highest bidder, at
public auction, at the front door of the court
house in Alexandria. Louisiana, between the
hours prescribed by law. on
Saturday, April 22, 1916,
the foliowing described property, to-wit:
The following described lands situated on the
north side of Red river and In the parishee of
Rapides and Grant, ill the State of Louisiana.,
to-wit: West half of NW qr. NE qr of SW qr. and
E hf of E hf of section 24 in township 6 north,
range I east.
North half of section 18; W hf of NW qr. SW
qr,  ht of SE gr of section 17; NE qr, E hi of NW
qr. N ht of iSW qr, N hi of SE qr, and NE qr of 8E
qr of section 19; all of section 20 (with the excep
tion of E hif of NE qr); W hi of SW qr. and SE qr
of NW qr of section 21; SW qr of section 28; NW
'qr of NE qr. N hf of NW qr.SW qr of NW qr.and
NE qr of NE qr of section 29; NE qr of NE qr of
section 31; E hf of E ht of section 32; S hf of NE
qr. NW qr ofS E qr, NW qr of NW qr,S hf of NW
qr. and SW qr of section 33; W hf of NW qr of
section 14; all in township 6 north, range 2 east.
Northeast quarter of nE qr of section 25; the
northern portion of section 42. containing 153
acres, and described as commencing where east
line of said section 42 intersects Bayou Flaggon,
thence run south on east line of said section 42 a
distance of one-half mile, thence west 7% degrees
north 0-16 of a mile. thence north on west line of
section 4" to Bayou Flaggon. thlencealongBayou
Flaggon to point of beginning; all that portion
of section 48. bounded north by the old Milhlb
and Daugre tract, east by section 44, south by
section 48, in township 4 north, range I east. and
west by section 42. and containing a quantity of
471 acres, which does not include Howard tract
of 50 acres; all of section 45 (with the exception
of NW qr of NW qr, and NW qr of BE qr); all in
township 5 north, range I east.
All of section 4 (with the exception of SE qr of
NE qr and NE qr of SE qr); all of section 9 (with
the exception of the E hf of NE lr); SE qr of HE
qr of section 8; all of fractional section 17; lot I
of fractional section "2. containing a quantity of
1I0.96 acres; all of fractional section 2;: SW qr
of SW qr. and .'hf of SE qr of section 24; the
fractional SW qr of section 26; all of section 40,
being the John Burney grant; all of fractional
section '7; all of fractional section32; all of frae
tional section 33; all of section 35 (being the
lsaac Fraser grant) lying north of the north
line of sections 42. 43 and 44 produced; all of sec
tiom 86 lyiug north of Bayou Flaggon: all of see
tion 3h lynig south of Bayou Flaggon; all of sec
tion 41 ( with the exception of BE qr of SE qr); all
in townshitp 5 north, range 2 east.
All dof section 1 (with the exception of S ht of S.
W qr): lot 1. and S hi of S hf of secthin 2; N W qr
of section 15; E hif of NE qr. and SE qr of section.
16; all of fractional section 48, all in township 4
north, range 1 east.
Which lands aggregate a total quantity of
l.1tm.7i0 acre., and are further shown on plat an
nexed to the act of sale and mortgage from Lee
Lumber Company. Ltd., to Sherman Cook and
2M. Leigh Alexander, of date March 7, 1912, and
colored green on said plat.
Excepting however certain timber and rights
of way as reserved and excepted in said act of
sale from said Lee Lumber Co., Ltd.. to said
Cook & Alexander of said date March 7. 1912., and
recorded in ('onveyaice Book 61. page 55, of the
Records of Rapides parish, aUd also excepting
the following described properties released from
the effect of said mortgage and vendor's lien,
to-wit; 0
(a) Lote 1, 2.3., 4, 5 and 6 of section 27; lots 1,
2, 3. and 4 of section 3.; all of fractional section
33; all that portion of section 40 lying southeast
of the dividing line between sections 33 and 31 In
said township and range produced in a direct
line north through section 40 until It intersects
with the dividing line between lot 3 of said see
tlon 27 and fractional section 1i produced in a
direct west line, which southeast portion of said
section 40 so released contains 325.80 acres; all
that portion of section or grant i:s lying north
of the north line of sections 42, 43 and 44 produc
ed. wihich portion so rei.ased contains 41.15
acres; all in township 5 north, range 2' east; and
as released by said Lee Lumber (o.. Ltd., in the
act of sale from said Cook and Alexander to Eli
1'. Williams dated January14, 1315. and recotded
in Conveyance Book 69, page 146 et seq.
(bt Southeast qr. N hi. N hf of SW qr of section
1; S hf of NE qr, S bf of SW qr. and Lot I of see- I
tion 2; NW qr of section 15; gE qr and E hi of
NE qr of section 16;: all of fractional section 49;
all in township 4 north, range I eat. Thenorth
ern portion of section 42containingl53 acres aand
deeribedl as commenclug where the east line of
Maid ection 42 intersects Btyou Flaggon: and
thence rolln south on east line of said section 4]
one-half nliie, thence west 7% degrees north t-l -
oi a mile, thenmce north on west line of said sec
tion 42 to Bayou Flnaggon. thence along Bayou
FIlaggon to point of beginning. Al thatportionu
of aection 43 bounded north by the old Milhas
and Dalgre tracts. east by section 44. Mnsth by
section 48, and west by m·etion 42, contaiulg
471 acres. which does not include the Howard
tract of 49 acres; NEqr. E h ofNW qr. SW qr
of KW qr. N hi of SW qr, S hf of NE qr of section
45; all In towinblo 5 north, range I east. All of
setlon :1 lIng south of Bayo Flaggona; N h
and N hi of SE qr of section 41. all in township 5 I
north, range 2 east. Which release snlentlonedl in
this paragraph is that made by said Lee i.umber
Co. in act of sale from said Cook and Alexander
o thbe Loulsana Investment & Securities Com
pany, dated Mac.h 5, 1914. and recorded in Con
veyane Book 6,. Impage t2.
(i) iouthwest qr of SE qr of section 41. town
ship 5 north. range 2 east. as ter release of LeeI
Lumber C('ompany to Geourge Hlavaty as per art
recorded in Coureyance BRok 6. pge 54.
(d) Southwest quarter of eetlon41.township l
north. range 2 east, as is r act of releasr ftim 4
Lee Lumber Company to Frelderek Brauga., se
corded nlu Conveyare Book 62, pose 432.
(e) Nor1heast qr of SE qr of section 40. town
ship 5 north, range 1 east. as per reeas from
Lee Luamber Co. to John M. Whiveley, recorded i
nla COmveyance Book ,. folilo 4IL
Terms of salek-Cash, without appiaissmeat.
Alexandria, La.. March 4, I1MS.
F. . DAVlD, -
THE BIG
Department Store
NEW GOODS ARRIVING DAILY
Our Stock is Complete 'in Every Department
New Customers are Being Added Daily to Our Al
ready Long List of "SATISFIED" CUSTOMERS
.What Is The Best Evidence That This Store Is The Best
Place To Trade?
We Are Now Headquartres For Ail
Kinds of FEED
Buying in Cars from Mills---WE BUY CH EER
That Enables US TO SELL CHEAPER
We Buy Almost Anything You Have
To Sell
AND PAY YOU CASHE
Your PATRONAGE RESPECTFULLY SOICITE.
Peoples Cash Store
W. B. STROTHER, Manager
In Union Mercantile Company Buildin
Railroad Ave. Colfax, a.
...
A Mother's Gratitude
Many a Mother in Colfax ill Appre
deate the Following.
Many a strong man and many a
healthy woman has much for which to 1
thank mother. The care taken dnring i
t their childhood broughCthem past the
danger point and made them healthy
men and women. Thousands of chil
' dren are bothered with incontinence of
urine, and inability to retain it is oft
times called a habit It is not always
the children's fault, in many cases the
difficu!tv lies with the kidneys, and can
S be readily righted. A Colfax mother
tells how she went about it.
Mrs. E. C. Hicks, Colfax, La., says:
"Doan's Kidney Pills are a good reme
dy for kidney trouble. I gave them to
my ittle boy who had no control over
the kidney secretions. One bo; cured
him and his health is now good. It is
a pleasure to recommend a remedy of
such merit."
Price 56c at all dealers. Don't simp
ly ask for a kidney remedy-get Doan's
'Kidney Pills-the same that Mrs. E. C.
Hicks had. Foster-MilburnCo., Props.
Buffalo, N. Y.-Adv.
shejriff Sale.
State of Louisiana, Parish of Grant,
13th Judicial District Court.
Leander Willett vs. Thomas L. Rader.
No. 3218.
By virtue of a Writ of Fieri Facias
issued out of the Honorable Thirteenth
Judicial District Court, and to me di
rected in the above numbered and en
r titled suit, directing and commanding
me to seize and sell the property of de
fendant. I have seized and will offer for
sale at the principal front door of the
court house in Colfax, La., between
the hours prescribed by law for judicial
sales, on
SATURDAY. APRIL 22, 1918,
the following described property. seiz
ed as the property of the defendant
t herein, to-wit:
South half of the southeast quarter
I of section 31, township 7 north, range 1
Sast, Lo, uisiana Meridian, and the north
- falf of the southwest quarter of see
lion 2, township 6 north, range I west,
Louisiana Meridian, together with all
buildings and improvements situated on
I said lands.
Terms of sale-Cash, with the beneit
of appraiement
Colxfu, La., March 17I .
A. B.
Cut This Out--It Is Worth Moasy.
Don't miss this. Cut out this slip,
enclose with 5c to Foley & Co., Chicago,
Illinois, writing your name and address
clearly. You will receive in return a
trial package containing Foley's H$no
and Tar Compound, for lagrippe coughsi,
colds and croup, Foley Kidney Pills,
and Foley Cathartic Tablets. J. W.
Duncan Co.-Adv.
"Telephone as
You'd Be Telephoned To'
TELEPHONE courtesy i
jut. bt ofrd1n
poitenss and everyda
kindness that we put laro
our convenretio when we
Its the ace to face ha 4
of potese ods a nd a und~e I
ueed when we're voice i'
It's the seepeas
and Madam that we b.
receive from the ot endw .
of the iret
Gdn. a Ies theso3ut to td.
phone comners tad proeiah;
it. i pams rler an wake tee
CUMBERLAND ti mauee aeni ,.e w ae i
'IELEPHONE & Maj~for A
TFLMPEK
Mr. P. Pbkaham SN H54 rmerus
Covimgt, yr., writes: "1 hav e
uaing FoeIb Hmgary sad Tar for..,
two years and can ad beltte r
eoulh syrup. I have eight r4
and give t to l aiof them. They
subjetto e from baebies on.
sa safe and rale medi&in. J.
Dean Co. --Ad&
II. 1"
