LVn GfATl
UNiV !8lTr
M- "I 'j
ii r i i . i
t rt m
liskaky inir
INDEPENDENT
NON-PARTISAN
Official Organ of the Building Trades Council of Cincinnati and Vicinity
Vol. III. No. 48
CINCINNATI, OHIO, MARCH 18, 1916
One Dollar a Year
-li lAVlHJit!
Ki iA rirmviui wfmm8mrgfimwrw www mm v msm
fur wrSm MAW. yMHSwwttf-vflflB'i. WwV MBrm mv
I:
f
f
-tf
Ohio Union Brewery
Still Using Scabs
The International Union of United Brewery Workmen of America Are
Heavily Interested In This Brewery, But Will Not See That Their
Work Is Done By Union Labor.
Adolph Kummer Makes a Speech at Central Labor Council, Claiming
"That the Brewery Workers Are Friends of All Crafts", If That
Is So, Why Does the Ohio Union Use Scabs, When the Brewery
Workers Are Financially Interested In It?
Col. Adolph Kummer, a paid speaker
of the "wet" interests, made a long
talk last Tuesday night before the Cen
tral Labor Council, demonstrating the
magnanimous feeling of the brewers
and the brewery workers toward organ
ized labor.
Col. Kummer was talking to laundry
workers, teamsters, garment workers,
blacksmiths, and others, who never come
in contact with the brewers, and who
are liable to believe that everything the
Colonel said was the Gospel truth.
When, as a matter of fact, such is not
the case, and Kummer is either deceiv
ing the members of the central body,
or he is ignorant of the true conditions.
The Building Trades Council is com
posed of the only crafts that have any
business with the brewers, and they are
the only ones who ask the brewers to
use union labor and they will tell you
a different talc.
For the past four or five weeks, the
Iron Workers have been lighting with
an imported hyphenated American,
named Chas. Proebstlc, who is president
of- the Ohio Union brewcrv, which ,is
fcutitrorieti liv the- JTitcniatiuhalHjnioT
of the United Brewery Workers of
America.
This brewery wanted to install 27
large, steel tanks, and by the decision
of the American Federation of Labor,
this work belongs to the Iron Workers,
but Proeb'stle has tried every way on
earth to have this work done by cheap
labor. lie allowed the tanks to remain
on the railroad cars and paid $21! de
murrage, holding the work up from the
Iron Workers, and scheming all the time
to have the same done by cheap scab
labor.
Last week Mr. Proebstlc had the
nerve to tell a delegate of the Building
Trades Council that he intended to ap
pear before the Central Labor Council
last Tuesday and have the business
agents of the Building Trades Council
disciplined for not allowing him to use
scab labor. Of course, he depended up
on the support of the members of the
Council, who arc under pay of the brew
ery interests in order to turn this trick,
but, alas, he failed to show up. Hence
Kummer delivered bis oration on the
loyalty of the brewer to organized labor
His talk was disgusting to any honest
man who knew that but a week ago the
Building Trades Council, in order to
get the brewers to use union labor, had
called upon Col. Win. Hess, secretary
of the Brewers' Board of Trade, anil
gentleman call
idy of German
the Building
VIUILItt Wl V.VI IK I IIIIIL IIIIH, VIHItlllllll V. I I I I
a meeting between that bod
American citizens and lie milium1'
Trades Council.
iiuhs luui me (juiiiiiiiuui:, ui, ii ami ailOilRT lliciuiihu i)i -T i t ji i jiiiuui i,
a consultation, it was decided that the hut. Cutters who are paid $() a week
hiring of union labor was a matter forior less will be increased $y a week; and
each brewery to handle individually, but
that the committee could depend upon
him personally using his good offices to
help the Council at any time.
Imagine Hess aiding the Council as
against the breweries !
We will sell our interest in his prom
ises very cheap.
Therefore, the proposition is that
when you want work, the Brewers'
Board of Trade are not interested, but
when they want you to vote for them, !
it is the business of the board.
If the Ohio Union Brewery is put
on the unfair list, it is the same as plac
ing the International Union of the
United Brewery Workmen of America
on the unfair 'list for employing scab
labor, as the officials of the union have
carried on all the negotiations with the
Iron Workers.
Still Col. Kummer says, "We are with
you all the time and you should ought
to he with us, as wc are your friends."
In the meantime the work is being
done at the Ohio Union Brewery by
scab labor, who are paid about half the ies a bonus for the privilege of operat
ion Workers' scale. i ing their cars over the city tracks can
The next movement is up to the not deduct the amount of the bonus
Building Trades Council, who no doubt i from the gross receipts upon which they
will take action next Thursday night. '' pay a franchise tax to the State.
9VMMMMMMMMV rivWi!&flS&ri
HHIv w8mWmis&
mm " . mwm
VvMWk vWWmS
HON. NICHOLAS LONGWORTH
Who limy ciilcr the V. S. Seiitiloi-inl Contest in n short
ern Ohio should lie represented, and Nick is the i-if.
the
job.
iur.ssM.Ki:i;s win.
Xcw York. Dressmakers' union Xo.
l ,10, affiliated to the International Ladies'
Garment Workers union, has won its
I live weeks' strike and secured a signed
I agreement with the Manufacturers' as-
sociation in this industry. Hours are re-
duced to 4!) a week and wages for piece
j workers are raised 10 per cent with a
', minimum wage of $ii. Girl workers re-
ccive a weekly increase of $1 : on Jan-
reive :i wrek-lv increase of SI: on all-
'miry I, next year, an additional $1, and
those receiving over $20 will
receive nil
additional $1 a week.
UlTU'lvtlv fflMIM.'VfcSA'MflV .WIT.
' '-
Columbus, Ohio. The district court
of anneals has overruled the decision of
the Franklin countv common pleas court
which declared section 7 of the State
compensation act illegal. This section
COIN tlllS.UIWII tICL llll.;ai. X HIS ."i. l-lli.U
provides that where employers fail to
their workers the State industrial tional union, the Xational Brotherhood Engravers of the Chamber of Com
ission is empowered to award dam- f Operative Potters, and they arc con-1 mcrcc, said the controversy m no way
insure
lOlllllllSSIUII IS flllinnvti UM lu ittiiini uiiiii-
iiros ntraiiist the enmlover. This is one
of the most vital parts of the law amLganized labor and its friends, they will
scores of similar cases will hinge on the i win.
outcome, as opponents of State com-1
pensation will appeal to the supreme I'OWDHI! WOltKKItS' LOW WAGKS
court. !
I Xational City, Cal. -Employes of the
CAX'T KSCAl'H TAXATION'.
Columbus, Ohio. The Mate supreme
court has ruled that interurhan compan
ies which nav to citv street car coinpan-
time. South
lit fellow for
DATA OX KICKNKSS IXSUltAXCIO.
Sacramento, Cal. The Stale commis
sion on social insurance, authorized hv
the last legislature to investigate and
recommend legislation as to the extcn-
sion of the principle of social insurance
in this State, will investigate "sickness
insurance," or insurance against illness
for the benefit of wage workers and sal-
ary earners. The commission has also
decided to investigate "unemployment in -
c leew led In investigate iiiiemnlovinent ill-
surancc," and it will recommend to the!
inn lCiM.mue spt'ciiK iiiiiuu uu must :
two matters.
o'TKItS KKKITSK WA(JK CU'I
Mctuchcn, X. I. The Phoenix ceramic
works, manufacturers ol porcelain nam
tubs, laundry tubs, lavatories, sinks, etc.,
, locked out its employes because they re-
, Miscd to accept a wage reciitcuoii oi
tier cent and the linn is now endeavoring
to nnerntc the nlant with non-unionists,
" "- . 1 . . . '
Imaueial assistance from their interna -
1 he ocu-ed-out emnioyes are receiving
" I--; - T "' , - ' .
lulcnt that with the moral support of or-
Hercules Powder company arc protest
ing against wages, paid by this concern.
It is stated that the company is build
ing a hotel and all workers will be com
pelled to hoard there and pay $t a day.
Cots will be furnished, but the workers
will have to furnish their own lied
clothes. Signs are posted around this joint commission consisting oi ne seiui
plant warning employes not leave the tors and five assemblymen to investigate
premises.
The Building Trades Council
Regular Meeting. Senator W. G. Harding Declares For
the Burnett Bill. Agreement With the Employers'
Association Read and Adopted Section by Section,
With But Few Changes.
The regular meeting of the Building
Trades Council was called to order by
President Cullcn.
Minutes of the previous meeting were
read and adopted.
A communication from the Cement
Finishers Local No. 324, named Broth
ers II. Fisher and John P. Pope as dele
gates to the Council. Both brothers be
ing present, they were duly obligated.
The following communication from
the American Federation of Labor was
read and received :
Washington, D. C, March U, V.tlG.
Mr. Fred Hock, Secretary. Building
Trades Council, 20 Fast Twelfth St.,
Cincinnati, Ohio:
Dear Sir and Brother Your favor of
February 1-f til was duly received, in
which you ask for information in re
gard to the action taken by the Execu
tive Board of the Ohio State Federation
of Labor, which deprived your Building
Trades Council from representation in
the Ohio State Federation of Labor.
I regret that my reply should have
been so long delayed, but our work has
been greatly crowded, which has pre
vented me from answering all communi
cations addressed to me as promptly as
I desire.
1 will state in connection with the sub
ject matter of your letter, that the rep
resentation of building trades councils.
union label trades councils or metal
trades councils in a central body of
State branch is dual representation, for
the reason that the local unions, holding
be, directly represented in the central
body of their district and the State
branch. Such direct representation is
Engravers and Employers Stalled
Fail To Agree On Wage Question, and 80 Men Quit.
Substantial Wage Increase Rejected, Says Serkowich.
Doors of Several Shops Closed.
About SO members of Cincinnati Photo-Engravers'
Union employed in Cin
cinnati are not working, pending a set
tlement of differences between employees
and employers with reference to a new
working agreement.
Union photo-engravers are not at work
at the following concerns : Cincinnati
Process Engraving Company, Lammers
Engraving Company, Sycamore street;
Lammers lingraving Company (,in"er-
ly the H.W. Weisbrodt Company L Wal-
nut street ; Queen Citv Engraving Com -
nany ; Threlkcld-Waltcr Engraving Com -
i ' .. : r ci,... u,-;f. H..,,o.mii
' ,,anv' Runey Show Print: Hennegan &1
Co.; Cohen & Co. ; The McDonald Print-
( jg 'Company, and the Modem Engrav-
, jnK Company.
:.... (-,.,.,.,..
When employees reported for work
vcstcnlav niornitlff Ut U1C dilClIlliail I ro
cess Company, Queen City Engraving
Company and the Lammers Engraving
ICompanv, Svcamore street, they found
the doo'rs of the concerns closed, and
! were advised that the doors would re-
i mam closed until an aujiiMiueiu .i
reac hei . At the otlier sliops involved in
the controversy the men gave up their
employment at' 12 o'clock noon and de-
cided not to return to work until an ,
nureement was reached.
ti. sctkowicii, iuinaguij; jctitwi;
. , . . .' , - , Tll..
1 of the Associa cd Employing I hoto
ay
I -' - - . .,. f- .
j would affect handling of work.
He
said arrangements had been made to
take care of the work until the situa-
MfiHT OX MINIMUM WAflK.
Albany, X. Y. Trade unionists in this
State will have an opportunity to inform
legislators of their position on minimum
wage laws, if a resolution proposed by
Assemblyman Ryan is adopted. The
lawmaker favors the appointment of a
the question.
the intention of the law and you will,
therefore, realize that a second repre
sentation of an allied trades council is
a dual representation.
With best wishes, I am,
Yours, fraternally,
Frank Morrison,
Secretary, American Federation
of Labor.
The following communication from
Senator W. G. Harding was read and
filed :
U-vuniJ States Senate.
Washington, D. C, March 0, 1910
Mr. Fred Hock, Building Trades Coun
cil. Cincinnati, O. :
My Dear Mr. Hock This is to ac
knowledge and thank you for your let
ter of March 4, and in reply beg to say
that I intend to give my vote to the
Burnett Immigration bill, unless some
objection develops which I have been un
able thus far to foresee.
I trust you will be satisfied with nn
attitude when the time comes for final
expression.
Very sincerely,
W. G. Hardi.m..
Business Agent Hock read his report,
which upon motion, was received and
hied.
The new contract with the Employers'
Association was read and adopted, ar
ticle by article, after several minor
chances.
irtsll-tn"ds-'rcpnTtcd)l5ir.esss5i,""
There being no turtner Business ue
fore the Council, the same adjourned
until next Thursday night.
tion had cleared satisfactorily to both
sides, and that with this end in view
the members of the employers' organi
zation had sent out a bulletin inform
ing their customers that they would be
able to take care of all orders as usual.
"Letters requesting men have been
received from other cities," said Mat
thew Woll, Chicago, President of the
International Photo-Engravers' Union,
last night, "and, if an amicable settle-
merit is not soon reached, a number of
' the photo-engravers involved m the
1 controversy will leave Cincinnati,
i At a meetinir vesterdav afternoon ot
the union, Frank E. Bell, Secretary of
the Allied Printing Trades Council, told
tne men tnat tneJ' wcrc Just'ned '.n. re"
questing the same wages and conditions
mai iiiuiuiii,na b" "-
cities.
t "There never has been any difficult
about the adjustment of wages and
working conditions in the last ! years
' until outside influences stepped ill, saiu
v..u,.... v.-,v?-... --,- r-
semen a iuiiu" . ".
of proportion, the employers met a
( half way by ottering a substantial wage
increase, uaseit on a grauuaieu scaie.
Because of outside influence at work tht
union committee did not accept this
offer." ,
Union officials said the Central En
graving Company, U. S. Printing Com
pany, Standard Publishing Company and
Richard Chapman, engraver, are not af
fected hv the controversy.
STKKIi COMPANY PKOSPEUS.
Buffalo, X. Y. Lackawanna .Steel
company's stockholders are enjoying
prosperous times, according to a report
just issued. President Clarke states that
"prices are profitable' and that the pres
ent year promises to be the best in the
company's history. The profits of the
last quarter were $1,795,75S.13, which is
at the rate of almost 20 per cent on the
outstanding stock.
