When Is a Religion Not a Religion? When Its Dupes Prove Their Faith by Assassination and Rioting.
LLciiiciriiiXi-Tixr iT-ij3LiiXiXixxixx: rrrxrviirTrTrTriic
Mr. Chairman: I believe that the hope of our nation lies in the "little
red school house," I mean by that our public school system, which has
been the nursery of patriots and the protection of our heritage. 1 hope that
every arm outstretched against it may be palsied and every tongue opposing
it may wither, for the time of its destruction marks the downfall of the Re
public, with its pillars toppled into week and rubbish. Af. Clyde Kelly of
Pennsylvania, Congressional Record, February ?, 1914.
This It Number 256
NACE
Aawwra, Wnewcl
Mirth It, I9U
IheMw
3
J
MM CATHOLIC BOYCOTT
Tit Duty Blow tt Tret Initiations Ai In to the Spirit of Romi
. as It It Tortiga to Oar Fret Democricy Thi KatioB-WkIt
ftpal Bejcott Most Bo Bronght to ao End if tht
Americas People Art to Bo Fret
ir ia ruwn. r
Lat week we conMd.rvd THE
rut little between our free and fundamental democracy ami, to uw tne
apt language of Washington, "Ike insidious wilts .f jureiyn influence,"
it, in otlur aord the reactionary anl ditic theories of viee-t-atcn oll
world tnonanhie and hierarchies advancing under the banner of thou
tiko hare undertake to make America dominant! lioman i'atkohc.
Thin wk we to mm-ider PAPAL iiOYL'UTTS IN THE
UNITED STATES. The I!man Catholic hierarchy it the moot per
fectly organized machine Luuan to history. Id tin country .the hier
archy, a we have wen, haa it three great armie ceamlefsly working
to subelituto the papal theory of rule for the democratic provision and
bulwark of free institution. Perfect organization and the rvlentle
and nation-tide employment of the tin'Ameriian boycott have placed
our five institutions in the graved peril tiny have faced since the
IWlarafmu of Independence cent a thrill of terror through every mon
a n. by and hioranhy of the old world.
The Nation-Wide Papal Boycott
The nation-wide papal boycott in as characteristic of Romanism as it
ia foreign to the spirit of free democracy. It has for its aim (1) the
destruction of freedom of religious dicuion, (2) freedom to criticize
un-American and subversive theories, (3) freedom to publicly utter warn
ing by statesmen and patriots, () freedom to defend our public schools
from the present persistent and deadly assaults of Humanism and
(5) freedom for editors and publisher to express their honest opinion.
For years, or .since political ltomanism has started its campaign
io pain political control of America and make thi once free republic
dominantly Roman Catholic, there has pone forward a comprehensive,
nation-wide boycott instinct with that relentless, pinions, persecuting
spirit that has marked Koine's long and ccam-lcss war on liberty and all
the distinguishing glories of progressive Protestant nations where reason,
freedom and toleration have-taken the place of the index, the inquisition
and the dogma of papal infallibility.
For years every effort possihlo has been made to prevent theatres,
balls and even churches being used for lectures by distinguished and
scholarly Americana who were opposed by intolerant Rome. For years
this boycott bas been extended to editors and publishers, to business
men and even to laboring men. '
For years men depending on their business for tbeir liveli
hood and who would feel perfectly free to go to hear Catholic lectures
or to join the Knights of Columbus, (because the spirit of the boycotters
is foreign to the genius of democracy), have not, in various localities,
dared to go to hear patriotic speakers or to joii patriotic orders became
of Roman Catholic boycotts.
Here, in the United States, far l'ss than one-fifth of the- population,
which bas been welcomed to our land, allowed perfect religious liberty,
permitted to indulge in criticism and attack o our churches and to enjoy
the widest liberty of vtterance in their pre are today showing so little
appreciation of the splendid toleration, liberty and equality of oppor
tunities granted by this great Protestant democracy that they are sys
tematically seeking to abridge and interfere with the liberties and riglits
of those who oppose them, by employing that most reprehensible and un
American weapon of injury and destruction, the boycott.
"While it would require a large
volume to merely outline the nu
merous instances of this Republic
wide, and all but universal boycott
movement, space prevents our citing
more than a few typical instances
as illustrations of this deadly at
tempt to invade the just rights of
others and to destroy that freedom
of discussion essential to the tery
life of progressive democracy.
Illustrations of Roman Boycott
(1) Jtttmpti to interfere with tht
freedom of public assembly. A far back
aa 1913 a well known theatre via rented
ia Hu Louis, alow, for a public addrea
by Gen. Xclsoa A. Mile, on of Amer
ica' Bort distinguished military leaders
and publicists and a maa of unsullied
reputation. Gen. Mile waa the bead of
th Guardians of Liberty, a body of pa
triotic citiaeo whoa principle, it ia aafe
to eey, would gladly have beca sub
scribed to by entry presides! of the
United States from Washington to Gar
field. But Rome hatea freedom of speeck
and aha not only brought auch pressure
to bear ow th theatre aa to indue the
manager t eancet the contract, but when
Gen. Mils arrived it waa found that
then militant fots of oar eonttitutionml
provision for freedom of pubhe assembly
bad been to actir and effective ia their
terrorist method, that ao hall and not
ren any church la th populou part of
Et. Louis could b secured ia which thi
great general, this diatiagiuahed, honored
aad nireraly respected American could
deliver bis aweeage.
Ia September of last year (1913) a
similar eahibitioa of Some 'a ag Ions; in
tolerant waa exhibited ia Irton, Ohio,
Briefly th fact were theae: th greater
Pavtoa Aaaociatioa invited th American
Federation af Patrioti Societies to bold
tt annual meeting ia th city. The
president of th Aaaociatioa of Patriotic
eoeietiea . warned th repreecntatiT of
th Dayton business moa 'a body that he
should b carerul before making promise
because of th unrelenting hostility of
Bonu Catholic to free discussion. The
official representative of th Daytoa
Aaaociatioa replied: " The fact that four
federation it cm mnti-Cttholte organisa
tion would here ao inflame with us, wit
are planning te render tome service to
CtthoOe eoeietp which ie to meet here
thie nmmer. We ore just m aVItay te
nierjeerxioe to ntm-CethoUo bodf."
Vitatioa waa accertad. th Greater
on Aaaociatioa made arrerml gener
, promiaea ia regard to hall, program
'd other matter auch aa municipal
motiag bodie frequently offer a ia
rested ta to bring cenreatioas t dtiea.
weeka paawd froea th time of the
ement which waa Julr t'th. aad
.'t efter Vr. EcrnoIJ, the pwalisot
rr tr rw
ISSUE. and found it to be a clear-
of th American Kedcration of Patriotic
Pucictica, had left hi home for Dayton
to see that prehminnry arrangements
were mado for a uccemful convention,
a telegram was acnt him ctating that
"The greater Dayton Auociation hereby
wUhdrari from atneement of July t?th,
covering tha contention of American Pa
triotic Societies proposed to be held at
Dayton, 8ept. 16-17 and IS, all proposed
arrangements for convention have been
abandoned." Sot waa this all, arriving
in th city it waa found that hotel had
made no arrangementa for delegate and
the manager of all the puUic halla bad
been apes by the nn-American enemies of
freedom of public curmbty and fnr a
time it appeared aa if no meeting place
could b obtained. The Maaon, bow
aver, threw open (heir hall for the u
of th convention.
(2) Interference with the freedom of
the press. Evidently appreciating that
th only bop of making America dom
inantly Koman Catholic waa th suppres
sion or prohibition of discussion of
politico-religion subjects that were of
fensive to th hierarchy, or which criti
cised the papal system. Organized Ro
manism ha long sine been able to
practically deatroy th old time whole
some, and to free institution, absolutely
vital, freedom of diacuasioa of politico
relisiou questions.
Even in th people' columns of the
daily paper article are rarely admitted
that might give offense' to political Ro
manism, and when admitted such letter
are usually heavily blue-penciled while
editor of great dailiea are mut sled or
fagged, jrhile publisher who dare to
criticit Bom must expect to have tbeir
adrertieer driven or frightened from
their page. Here are soma illuminating
and typical facta.
In th report of Anthony Mat re, Sec
retary of the American Federation of
Catholic Societies, given at the annual
meeting of that orgaairation which con
vened in Milwaukee, Wis August 10th
1913, w have an excellent and thorough
ly characteristic illustration of bow the
owe free American editor is now subject
to relifiio-politieal censorship of political
Somanism. In Mr. Mitre' report a
given in the pre w find the following:
"Tht St. Louis Post Dispatch pu Wished
aa editorial which wa considered ob
noxious; we saw th publisher, not the
editor aad a retraction wa quickly pub
lished." At th cam convention th boast wa
mad that th federation had succeed ed
ia having eighteen firm withdraw their
advert iarmenta from tTatson'e itagJtine.
Daring th past few year leading
panera la various cities and towns 'save
refused to give news' notice of largely
attended patriotic meeting adJreaeed by
(Continued, on Tsge 2, Coin ma 2)
What a peevish gaag th Boaaiaa pre
late art! la ptt af bsaaf U repr
aratative of Car t aad greater Iks a
God men aa they rvtea they are, Uey
are alwaya kw-iief at om little trifle
a a acrl of aafety h to their ver
t barged aoals, the greater aerrvta rf
watch never com to light till eons for
of Komiah slavery ia established sad
finally sera by those whoa vision hat
aot beea clouded by the pretended laaa
rrac aad tbo epleador aad glamor
thrown over it by th Romiaa religloa.
That they are up to " popih trkk
roottaattr, i etkdraeed by th fact that
tbry p retro J Ike fhilJrea to b peeved
oer trifle. Bight now they are pretead
iag to object strenuously to th use of
the word rcoiicMsi," th tag sad,
"ism," making the word mark over
mu. h of such Jrvili.h word as Secular
Urn, MonnoniMii, Hx-islium, Hhintoism,
Ratioaaliun, MeUtolisni, Iarwiaism,
Thuggeeism, Mcsm.Tism, Psgsaism, Ba
oubliranism, etc, etc.
eeeweeeeMweeeeMeMeweeeMwwwMWWMWwwwMMMMWWwwwwwv
CLIMAX OF ROMAN CATHOLIC CULTURE
REACHED BY K. (1RI0TERS IN CHICAGO
Hundreds of Priest-Inspired Hoodlums Assail Speaker and Audience Use
Firearms to Terrorize Citizens Women Wounded. Windows Smashed.
Cars Stopped and Passengers Clubbed Mob Law and "Muscular
Christianity" Too Much for "Efficient" Police Who Arrest One Only
"Kill him! Kill him!" yelled
the pack of papist hoodlums who
ruhed the tilatform of ltoulcvard
Masonic Hall ia Cbicago, on tho
evening of March 1, while Dr.
Joseph Sluttery of Boston was ad
dreeing an audience ia defense of
free speech.
Following close upon the recent
enthronement of the Romish arch
bishop llundelein, prince of the
"only true church" ia that city, tho
jK)jcs devoted- subjects were pror
ing their loyalty to their Italian
nmngod, and displaying their care
fully cultivated hatred of the cause
championed by Dr. Sluttery.
The meeting at Iloulevard Ma
sonic Hall, at 5505 S. Halstcad St.,
Chicago, was the first of a scries to
lx? addresi-ed by Dr. Slattery under
the auspices of the Guardians of
Liberty. The speaker had made no
reference to the alleged religion of
the rioters. The Guardians of Lib
erty is not an anti-Catholic order,
and its speakers are not permitted
to attack any religion. The speaker
was there to defend those American
institutions which are persistently
attacked by the agents of popery.
But, to the rum-soaked rabble, in
cited by priesU and Knighta of Co
lumbus, the defenders oT American
ism were the enemies of the pope,
and should therefore be killed. The
attack had evidently been prepared
systematically with the purpose of
terrorizing the opponents of papal
H)litics. The lectures had been
widely advertised; and local pnpigt
politicians determined to stop them
by inciting bloodshed.
Admittance was by ticket; and
there was nothing done that could
arouse the resentment of the mob,
unlets it had been organized and
inspired in advance. The presence
of priests, and the active part taken
by persons who declared them.clves
Knights of Columbus, go to show
that the climax of gun-play and ex
tended rioting was in no degree ac
cidental or spontaneous.
Just before the beginning of the
lecture twenty voting products of
parochial school training appeared
at the entrance and forced their
way past the doorkeeper. They
were quietly told that they mu6t
ecure tickets in order to remain.
This they boisterously refused to do.
One of them made a gun-play,
which was too much for the com
placent police, and they were
ejected.
As soon as the lecture began, a
drunken bum, evidently coached in
his part, began to disturb the speak
er with questions and denials. He
was ejected finally amid confusion.
In the meantime about 200 confed
erate began their various stunts in
different parts of the hslL A dozen
of them attacked and brutally beat
np one of the state officers of the
Guardians while a mob surged to
ward the speaker crying "Kill
him!"
In the meantime those in charge
of the meeting vera doing their
best to persuade the polios present
to use their authority in behalf of
order.. Instead of commanding and
enforcing order, the police seemed
satiiCcd liit thing! had reached
la deaouaeisg th raeeat action of a
argeoa in la Cermaa Aatartraa boapital
ia ibieag. ia regard to th affair of the
aVfarbre child. Us taikoli Jfaratag
Btetr aaUrely forgot that llaaa Hrhmidt,
a priast ia good staa lirg a ho wa ssarry
tag aad borylag people, bearing ens
frssloss. aad "creailiig Ged," not only
murdered hi awa haU but ha mother,
beeauaa th rharrh forU li the mamag
of her aerrant. It would be well la re
miad th priaat-odttnr of th horrible
deaths of young woate who ar Vorred
to Jump from th walls of the "Good
Hhepherd home" it order to gam free
dots which tha bole le-lrr deay them.
Ia Mexico and ia Franc coorrnt were
torn down and th skeletons of innamer
able infanta were I akirh pmved
what became of iafsnti born in convent.
It doeant lieroano th leader of a dirty
inslitutioa to paa Ju.lk-meiit on anything
whaUverl But the Bomish vultures are
not bothered with a conscience; tbrir
favorite Hslot, Ligtiori, lark them up
ia all their deviltry I
the point where they had little more
to do. Ono of them ordered the
lecturer to cease speaking, and sev
eral joined in the effort to promote
a panic
Few of them ao much as made a
pretense of doing their duty, and
several plain-clothes officers, stood
by, indiffcreut to personal assaults
or their consequences. Most of the
uniformed officers seemed desirous
of getting out and staying out of
the building so tho trouble makers
could have a free hand.
Dr. Slattery, wki his wife and
others on the platform, took refuge
in a room off the atago from which
they were finally rescued by police
summoned from other stations.
They were guarded through a rear
flit to a car which hurried them
to their hotel, under protection of
their rescuers and followed by the
mob in automobile that must have
been in waiting fot the purpose.
Attack Systematically Planned
It Becmed to be the mob's tactics
to make all the d;sturbance possi
ble, so the lecture might be de
nounced as the caufe of the disturb
ance. The pursuing automobiles
were loaded with horn-blowing
hoodlums, and everything conceiv
able was done o make an uproar.
Dr. Slattery, and his immediate
party, fortunately escaped the
drunken would-be assassins; but
others in the audience were not so
fortunate
The mob in front of the building,
variously estimated at from two to
three thousand, dr.! all they could
to annoy and injuPe those who hai
attended the lecture. Cars were
stopped by pulling down tv trol
leys, while passengers were dtugged
out and severely beaten. Many
women suffered blows about the
head and shoulders inflicted with
clubs and pistols.
Telephone wires, from nearby
stores, had been cut to interfere
with possible calls for polio outside
the district where the "foorce"
seems to have been "fixed." "We'll
Uc you Masons not to hold such
meetings!" yelled the frenzied mob
leaders, whose fury seemed to bo
directed especially at prominent
Masons and officers of the Guard
ians who had attended the lecture.
When a priest was asked why his
people had attacked a peaceful
meeting, bo replied: "This is a
Catholic city, and you have no right
to bold auch meetings here." One
Patrick Brennan was the only per
son arretted, being caught in the act
of dragging an inoffensive citizen
from a street car.
From the immediate Ticinity the
riotera spread through the neighbor
hood, attacking apveral residences.
At the- home of the Her. B. K.
Ryan, Mr. 'Byan was absent and his
wife, with neighbors, was conducting
a prayer meeting.! Several women
in the Ryan residence were struck
by stones . hurled through the win
dows ; and one lady, of -extreme age,
was injured so severely that it may
prove tataL ' r
Chasv B. Young, a prominent
citizen ZoT- Chicago and member of
tho Boar!" of Education, waa at
tacked hj a thug and alugd with
Wkea Father Christian. f Be Joha
tha Fvaagrliet charrh, Prracaae, N. t,
aaid la a sermoa M kCaighta of Cblum
k that, " Yoa raa go back nea a far
th war ef 177a, when the iadepead
eae of thi aatloa waa eel i Missed, aa
fiad th aame of thousands af goad Ho
bs 3 a t'athoUc carolled on th regimental
records of any of tha cosspaaie farmed
at that time," w are a MO astonished
at the an of anJisrjr ceaiBoaiea aa la
tegra part of regiments at that time.
Ws lather Christiaa a littl excited
when be aaw ihoutaaJ of asea la a
aiagl comayt
t
A Draver prirt ee aa aatitlema
plot la the ttiirago potaoa rao aad In
Uniate that the influence of Kaiser Wit
helm at Home i sex-unng prestio for
Teutoaie rhurhmea ny UBdrrli the
Muadelela iuri.lrat. It sresn that the Irish
are never satisfied, antes given every
thing in eight, bnl w suspicion that the
powon plot is a fake Instead of th work
of fstead Of Hihop Muldoon.
brass knurks as he was leaving the
hall. All in all, it was a veritable
crime-fest such as the pope's
Knights of Mob and Murder delight
in as means of proving their pspal
culture and loyalty.
But, instead of terrifying the de
cent citizens of Chicago into silence
and compliance with papal designs,
the whole disgraceful affair but
serves to show, demonstrate, and
exemplify the real spirit of popery.
When papal agents become so ar
rogant and lawless as to invade the
meeting place of people pa?ity
assembled in deienso of free speech,
the most careless and indifferent
citizen will surely bo aroused.
And when the great mass of
Americans once realize the true
spirit of these political meddlers,
who operate under the cloak of re
ligion, they will quietly, quickly,
and efficiently do the one thing nec
essary to abate the nuisance. They
will put papist politicians and beg
gars out of business by refusing
them any support whatever.
They will elect a Chicago admin
istration more faithful to America
and less truckling to Home, and
which will cause its police to main
tain the sacred rights of the people
to assemble and discuss public ques
tions unterrified by the Komish rab
ble. not such a desirable end
worth working for?
Prince Musdelein Tactics?
Investigation, and comparison of
facts coming to-light in connection
with the pre-arranged attack upon
the Dr. Plattery meeting in Boule
vard Masonic Hall, reveal an inti
mate connection between the riot
ing and the recent enthronement of
Mundelein the new papist arch
bishop.
The patriotic movement, in sup
port of constitutional rights and de
fense of the public school, ha
grown so rapidly in Chicago in the
last few months, that the advent
of the new diocesan ruler was to be
signalized by a campaign to crush
it by any and all means.
Careless cooks unintentionally
contributed to the beginning of the
campaign already decided upon.
Food, prepared for the Mundelein
coronation banquet, was left too
Ion in kettles not properly cleaned.
The result was that a number of
guests, not a great number, were
nauseated when spoiled soup was
served.
This trifling incident, which
under ordinary circumstances,
would scarcely have been mentioned,
afforded an opportunity for the
kind of publicity needed by the
strategists of the impending cam
paign. The next morning's papers
shrieked with storiea under glaring
first-page headlines telling how a
nefarious attempt Lad been made
to poison tho new archbishop and
hundreds of guest. Nothing could
hare been devised better calculated
than this to inflame the hordes of
ignorant papists throughout Chicago
and vicinity.
And the story spread, as guests,
so aomed with other liquids that
they were unable to return homo,
(Continued on Faffo 2, Column 5)
POLICE, POPERY, PRISONS
Gadnutf Nibs tad Cmtoi Pofici
"WittioBt Permixiiotr-Boti Cities Romish Stronroldi With Fa
cilities for HantSinf Sims Why Inspection is Weeded tad
How Rome Prevents Inspection Are legislators E&ad?
At tk reqiuvt af two itr from ta Coarrat of Ik Goo4 FWyhaH la
t'iarianati, KaMr Cowmissosrr Klurntpar, of Coiofina, Ky, Haturdav ordrt
laat a ararrh la instilutnl la t ovinctoa far to girl vbo left la roaveat a wk
to without t rmiMuoa and ara suj poH to to la Couactoa. ThHr aaaf vrvra
givra at Mrs. Xlsrrrlla oJrr. 1, of Hirtarr, Ohio, aa4 Mis Maria Keaa!v, IA,
of Atlarta, a. Arrorjisg to iaformstina ahlra rrarhrd lh aitters, Faturrtav, tha
Brla viola Inter from lovingtoa, railing upoa I'inrinnsti frirnd to losa thsta
moarv ao that ibey rould prorwd to their n-prrlivt brnnr. Ciisf Times Star,
Feb. -.0.
Juet why a girl wIiom; home is in Atlanta, Georgia, should be in one
of L'ome's private prisons in Cincinnati is a serious question, but not
more aeriou than some others that are cloM'tv related to that question. '
The statement that thy left the institution "without permission" indi
ta'.es that they had not been guilty of a crime, yet the sisters secured
police aid in searching for therru Are the Covington police paid to run
down Kome'a girl slaves?
Is it a crime to leave a House f the Good Shepherd without per
mission? Is it a crime for girls to try to grt home and appeal to friends for
aid?
It seems that youth and innocence are hounded from city to city by
the tools of Home, and we are reminded that a few years ago slave
catchers went from Kentucky up into Ohio in srsrch of runaway slaves,
black slaves, who had escaped from white masters who had at least a
I-'gal right to holdadave in Kentucky at that time.
A scne of jutii and an aroused public indignation at the traffic in
Mark slaves wiped that stain from our American soil and made this a
f .-re country for all. The toll in lives and dollars, the price paid in suf
fering and tears, was tremendous but none regrets it now. Yet we are
sitting silent while Home fastens a more infamous traffic upon our soil
and blots our banner again w ith a more cruel form of slavery than tho
Southland ever knew.
Slave drivers are going from Ohio into Kentucky, AND USIXO
PUBLIC OFFICKIJS, to rapture and return female slaves into captivity
and keep them at their toil. These slave catchers are tho devotees of a
so-called church; they pursue their infamous traflic in human souls and
todies with the approbation of a church, and at the command of a church,
which has its seat of authority in the Tatican in Rome in the person of
Pope Benedict XV, who claims to be tho rice-gerent of God on earth
with authority over heaven, earth and hell, infallible and irrefonnable.
The most cruel and oppressive despotism tho world has known is
flourikhing under the Stars and Stripes on soil wo had thought was freo
from the truel bond of slavery. AND WE CANNOT. INSPECT
BOM K'S INSTITUTION'S! We cannot protect our children from hot
hellish hate and crushing cruelty!
Our legislators forget their truft. their constituency, their friends,
and shield this monster of hypocrisy from tho searchlight of truth and
defend her against investigation.
We could mention a dozen in
stances of flights from Romish in
stitutions in which girls are held in
veritable bondage; we have given
wide publicity through the four
years just psst to these incidents
which reveal a little of the truth
which Borne strives so desperately
to hide, but the cry of the innocent,
tho bond-slave who has done no
wrong, THE BLOOI OF THOSE
WHO DIED IN SEARCH OF
FREEDOM is unheeded, and
Rome's ystem of slavery still pros
pers and remains immune to in
spection IS UNTOUCHED BY
LAW.
The kept press of Rome, the
spineless editors who lend a listening
ear to papal blandichmenN, have
conspired to prevent publicity of
this monstrous crime njruin-t Amer
ica and its citizens its innocent
and helpless youth.
Rome must have slaves and our
courts help provide them and help
keep them in the clutch; our police
are the watchdogs of hell.
Will the enlightened and awak
ened patriots of thU nation demand
that laws be passed which will pro
tect ourthildren and save for us the
freedom we have learned to love?
Your representative in your Etate
legislature is your servant; he is
there by your vote and should listen
to rour voiee.
I IF HE IGNORES JUSTICE
AND HIS CONSTITUENTS
CALL HIM nOME!
Let no man return to any legisla
ture who has been deaf to your de
sires, and blind to truth. Rome is
using every means and every meth
od to hide her nature and her pur
pose and to intimidate; to persuade
the press and legislatures that she
ia charitable, religious and law
abiding but the records of escapes,
deaths and cruelties that come from
her institutions are damning and
should command attention.
The following letter from a citi
zen in Covington shows why inspec
tion bills are defeated:
Coviajtoa, Ky, Feb. JTth, 1916.
TRB Msxacs:
I bars paid particular attention to th
variou bill introduced into th Ksn
taeby legislator during tha past araoioa.
I wa therrfor yerj aiurh surprised
when I rrad an aeeoaat of th "Iaspce
tioa Bill' iatrodured by Mr. Stoaa, as I
had aot mrrm aa account of it ia the daily
pa par. Tot aaderataad wa do aot ea
part to at reporta of thiag of this aar
tura ia tha pnblis prtaa, asporially la
Coviagtoa, bat om?tunr they get by th
Mnsor. I rot busy immediately aad in
Seek Cidi Who Lift H. 0. C S.
terviewed Representative Joha T. Mur
phy about th bill and wa informed that
it had been reported unfavorably by tho
committee. Th patriot and friends of
th bill endeavored to msi th bill a
special order but they wera opposed by
th other member from Kenton County,
Mr. Harry Meyer, and th bill ia now
dead o far a thi aesaloa i concerned.
The opposition to thi bill did not corns
from the farming, mining or monntaia
districts but from a place which ia
blighted by tho convent all around it,
the priest rid'lea city of Covington.
Here are th two representative from
Kenton county, both resident of Cov
ington, staniling by the priest and de
feating thi bill. Mr. Murphy say that
he diil not know that such a bill had
bora introduced until tho effort was
made to make it a special order; he
further state that he did not know that
there was a demand for nch a bill,
which indicate that ho haa not kept th
riht kind of company. Had ho been
with real American patriot ho wouM
have found that there wa a demand f 'r
such a till. Mr. Murphy further sa.n
that it doe not mako any difference to
him if curh a bill i pasaod or not.
When a girl living in Covington is de
linquent sh ia brought into court an I
sent to a eoarent or 11. O. O. 9. and th
Jurto who sent her there, the gra :l
jury, her parent or friend do not kn. in
to treatment she receives or what th"
conditions are, or if a girl whoso morul
ara deficient will improve under the
condition. Still Mr. Marphy says )i"
ia not interested in a bill that woul 1
shed light into three place of darknesi.
He is alto on.ler the impreasioa that
theae Roman Cat h olio institution take
thee wayward girl oat of charity. It
i hard to think that ha believes this,
but he made thi statement to me.
Ia opposing this bill on the floor of
the House, Mr. Harry Meyer haa
hows his color and will no doubt get
the votes of the pepil whea he run for
oince agaia.
I am gla) that Mr. Stone was brave
enough to r A a fight for this till and
hope he be in the House neit
session, th. he will have mora pa
triots oa hand willing to help him. A
fnr Measra, Mnrphy aad Merer I wiU
do all I eaa to retire them.
Now the thing that must be done 1
to let the patriot know just how their
representative are treating themi We
ran aot hope to let them know through
the puhlio proas; our only hopa for auch
help ia through Thi VensCB. I am
going to ask you to give this letter, to
gether with yonr comments, a prominent
place la an 'early issue ef the greatest
paper oa earth, calling particular atten
tioa of the Covington voters to th
article.
Tours truly,
A Comoro Vorra.
Covington patriota who are wise
to the infamies of Rome should let
their representative in state legis
lature know that THEKK IS A
DEMAND FOR AN INSPEC
TION LAW and that thero is
DESPERATE NEED OF IT,
TOO. .
