" I
The St. Joseph Observer
VOLUME IX.
ST. JOSEPH, MISSOURI, SATURDAY, MARC II 18, 1016
NUMBER 24
" Ku.
I
r
i
I
ALL ROADS LEAD
TO 5T. JOSEPH
On Next Tuesday, When the
State Democratic Convention
Will Be Held in This City
THE ARRANGEMENTS
ARE ABOUT COMPLETED
Every Democrat of Prominence In the
State, and Many of More than Local
Fame, Including United States Sen
ator William Joel Stone, Will Be
Present and Help to Pave the Way
for a Great Democratic Victory In
November
All roads will lead to St. Joseph next
w?ek and there Is a reason for the
r- . . .
i-y Democratic state convention, which
will blaze the way and set the pace
ior a uemocrauc victory nu aiong me
line, will convene here next Tuesday'
and "make the medicine" which Is to!
bring about such momentuous results
and they will be results for when'
the Democracy of grand old Missouri
sets out to do something, they do It.
All arrangements for the great event
have been completed or will be in
the next twenty-four hours and when
the guests of the city arrive from all
quarters of the state they will dis
cover that St. Joseph is ready for
them-and has its welcoming hand out
stretched and will make their stay in
one of the best cities in the country
one of joy and happiness.
That their welcome will not only be
from Democrats, but from all creeds
and classes, Is shown by the personnel
of the reception committee, which In
cludes all faiths and denominations.
When the guests are met by this non
partisan committee made up of Mayor
Elliott Marshall, E. L. Piatt, Ben Phil-
F. Wight, Ewiug Herbert, James L.jl'acr- as, ln U J'f. r0?V rV-T"
Davison, John A. Duncan, John s. -mem oi . u. .,ui., ..,.
13oyer. Alden D. Swift, Horace Wood.f0"11 attorneys and brokers of Kansas
Jesse Roberts, n. T. Forbes, John City, who recently claimed that his
Albus, John A. Rossi, William Bode! A waB CnUtle(1 conm " 0" fr
hausen, Frank Wickizer. Frank H. Al- "eimus lu ui - ' -""""' -i
t,. yV, ii, T,.n0.n. r,n Ing bonds, and that there was a vio
n-L.iai tm itLhin t,n nMninn
r,im' w n, "ti t .,, t'
Goldlnc. Charles May. O. M. Shanklln.' 'state,
Frank Lemmon, Eugene Zimmerman,)
Elsie Block. John Clark. C. D. Morris.'
James Sager, Frank Fulkerson, Henry
Mueller, John W. Patt. Walter Head, '
J. O. Barklev. William Goetz, Chris L.
Rutt, G. L. Faust, William Evans,
know that they are at home.
A Monroe Club Welcome
And then there will be the recep-
tlon committee of the famous Monroe
Club, who will devote their entire
time to seeing that the guests do not
lack .for anything. The Monroe Club
Ralph Stauber. W. P. Fulkerson, H. A. oi uisposing oi uie uuuua, uu. . .. . , ...... v-v,, ..i ,. .., ...,, .... ...,- d dollarsand that bolnng political adv
Hprague, is. u. voornees, is., u. uan-ime i. i - " "" --,- .'" . i.1 u J ti had removed that fifty dollar value The P
...,,. , m.. r-ni.. n. ryA th., Btn was not ohiicated to the former oDDonents to win the victorv which means so much for the lu re"'cu l"1 "o aMau
uu.yu .T. .c. -'-"" , -- ;:;,"; "-;;:- .. cauae of militant nemocrncv. he was reaa' t0 aam,t ,nat " naa Just . "We
u .w.ck. i ,. an !. . . u ...... b.,. -.-.,. nr-ninnf nrimariPSvPVP hpld nn WpHnHnv n,Vht. and as wel1 been cast bttore ,he BlbUcal tlon of
tin ana j. a. an uruni, mej wmi rnntiniiinir. the covernor said:
"grooms
will be wide open, and there
will be nothing left undone for the vis-
ltors. me coramiu una aieu mn.-ucu u-ii
. .i k,o ( v nn1 During the last legislature Kelly &
an Information bureau at No. 410 R gecured an appropriation from
Francis street, directly across tbe tne iegisiBture to pay said firm $16,000
street from the Hotel Robldoux, which for expert services. The legislature
will be general headquarters, where T. supposed the firm had rendered the
i t oi.h nrt rnrnn of Rsslstnnts service, but knowing tnis firm had ren
J. J. Smith and a corps of assistants gtate nQ 8ervJce wnatever
will aeo that all needed Information ftnd feenng tnat anything paid them
and facilities are provided. If anyone would be a donation or gift from the
can get away from this Monroe Club state, I vetoed the appropriation and
reception and entertainment commit- refused to permit them to draw tbe
tee, he will be a wonder, for It is ,none7-
made up of such boosters and enter- Governor Major adds the charge that
talners as James II. McCord. Judge Kelly & Kelly are sending out a letter
onr.r rr c. xi. Woodson. ' now for the purpose of campaigning to
Judge C. F. Strop, Judge T. B. Allen,
. . . .... .......
Judge Charles ii. Mayer, juage i. ,
Ryan, Judge A. I). Duncan, A. P. Clay
ton, John Downey, W. E. Stringfellow,
Judge R. E. CuWer, T. J. Lysaght,
Benjamin J. WoodBon, William E.
Spratt, R. I Spencer, E. II. Spratt, B.
R. Martin. Joseph E. Hunt, Robert
Kennard, James W. Mytton, John G.
' Parkinson, Wiley O. Cox, Ray Cargill,
James A. Clouser, John A. Connett,
Frank Storer, James Wells, RushTllle;
Samuel I. Motter. John E. Webster,
tXh. U. G. Crandell, E. M. Spencer.
-" Robert I. Young, W. B. Norrls, Frank
Freytag, William Hlllix, Ross C. Cox,
, ThomaB Moore, A. B. Munsey, Jesse
Barbee, F. D. Fulkerson, Charles V.
Davis, Agency: George W. Akers,
Henry Vogelman, Louis V. Stlgall, Wil
liam Ilunten, Rushvllle; C. II. Jones,
James A. Campbell, John W. Halght,
William M. McKay, Ambrose Patton,
GeorgQ Allison, Joseph Reed, L. C.
Oabbert. Walter Edson, C. L. Coy,
(Continued on Pagt Eight)
JUST FOLLOW THIS OUT
Then If You Have Not Enough Christ.
mas Money The Observer Will
Give It to You
There arc a whole lot of the boys
In St. Joseph who, whenever Christ
inas time rolls aroumUand they want
to buy "thelrjp only" ffifpresent, find
themselves short of the necessary coin
of the realm with which to carry out
their desire and as a result the fair
creature Is deprived of much joy and
satisfaction.
Now this Is only the last part of
.March and there are yet nine good
strong months In which the young
fellow with nn eye to the future may
get ready for the emergency, and this
paper proposes to tell him how to do
It and If he follows Instructions faith
fully and does not succeed In accumu
lating enough to buy his only a pres
ent next Christmas that will satisfy
her. The Observer will buy It for him.
Now all that you will hae to do is to
go down to Lew Durnes, or to Graham
t acy'Sl 0r to George Schneider's, or to
t t in,.i...i .- w.ii Puitoi-onn'o
I"' ...., V.. .V. ...... . ...v. ,
or t0 iJob Poteet's. or to Col. Iilll
Evans, or to 'John Downey's, or
Charley Weird's, or to Ed Hart's, or
t0 jhus Rosenblatt's, or to Charley
Wright's, or to any of the other good
banks of St. Joseph (and they are all
00(1) and waik up t0 the savings de-
posit Wn,i0w and hand the young man
back of the counter a nickel and tell
him to deposit it to your credit and
give you a deposit book. The follow
ing Monday go back and hand him ten
cents and have him credit you like
wise. On the following Monday go
and hand him twenty cents, and get
(Continued on Page Eight)
KELLYS HAVE NO CLAIM'
Governor Major Says That They Have
Not, and He Should Certainly
Know
Governor Major has sent out a let
ter to the newspapers of the state
which should be read by every tax
latlon of contract and breach of faith
In relation to the transaction by the
In answer, the governor asserts that
Kelly & Kelly are not entitled to a
single cent from the state. This firm.
he says, undertook to force Us services
upon the state, claiming tnat tnej
possessed superior abilities In the way j
Continuing, the governor
Theso gentlemen were long on toI
untary plans and conversation, but
K uvarvthlnp nlm Vmm the
very flr8t j refused t0 have anything
t0 do witn this firm.
A number of pe0ple tried to sell the
bonds, but failed to do so. The bonds
were ultimately sold, by authority of
me luna coiuuhhhiuucid, i -
uJtthy cossioner. could obtain.
'obtain an appropriation from the next
iiii.,,rn hut Ya "trintH nn succeed-
legislature, but he "trusts no succeed
Ins legislature or governor will permit
the firm to draw a single cent from tho
treasury."
WHAT AILED BROWN?
Or What Was He Trying to Do to or
for His Great Big Uncle
Sam
Dense mystery surrounds tho con
duct or actions of Ed Brown, a well
known hardware dealer of Hopkins,
who was here attending federal court.
Here Is how Deacon Moorehead of tho
Hopkins Journal tells of how It hap
pened or better perhaps how Brown
happened well no matter here It is
In the Deacon's own paper;
Ed Drown, the hardware man, is In
St. Joseph serving as a United States
Eomo hook or crook to bog off, will bo
'some hook or crook to begoff, will be
detained there for perhaps three
weeks.
II WAS REILLY B
For Mayor
For Auditor
For Treasurer
For Police Judge
For Councilman . . . .,
For Councilman '.
For School Director. (.".
. . ,
1 hat is tie ticket nominated
i. ,,i , ii..
in convention assemoiea ai .me court, nouse inursuay anu mai is
the ticket, made up of good Democrats, that will be elected when
April rolls around and the electors of the city of St. Joseph have
deposited their ballots.
'.,,.,... ., . ,,.,, ii , , , , ... ,,
And that is the ticket that the delegates entrusted with the
(liny oi cnoosing canuiuaies ior me uancmse oi tne voters seiecieu
and it is the Democratic ticket no matter if some of the Repub
licans of the city, who desire to control affairs and who failed in
their efforts to convince Democrats to the contrary, are not satis-
iiorl ihn llnmnpi'nnv ic fnr nomncrflpv mnnnc flin i-nln nf i lin
.... ...w ....,w...v - :','
majority ana tne majority oi tne
for and selected the above ticket
to victory next month.
It is possibly true that there
there always has been, and there
such us wiis every uuinucriuii; usuiriuii. seei ine elective nail-
i e .1 . i ii -ii i i 'i. i i ii i
chise of the voters. It will always be so, and it is to be regretted
that all good men who aspire cannot be selected for party prefer-
ment, but it cannot be, as but
place and it is therefore the duty of all of those who failed; to
BARNEY
resulted in an advantage to the
more manifest when the returns
gathered for the convention at the court house Thursday morning.
The convention was called to order by Chairman of the City Com
mittee Thomas J. Lysaght, and Judge Charles F. Strop and L. C.
Gabbert were nominated for temporary chairmen, Judge Strop
being elected. The various committee were then selected and an
adjournment taken to await their reports. Prior to adjournment
a number of speeches were made by members of the convention,
all of whom pledged their support to whosoever the nominees
might be.
When the convention reassembled, Walter H. Robinson with- SOnai friend. Any one of them is r cornmerct' and ravlsa tneIr
drew his name as a candidate for the nomination for mayor, and worthy of the confidence of the people asts"
when nominations were reached Barney Reilly was nominated by and big enough for the office to which "JftPan could not land an army here,
acclamation amid tremendous cheering in which nearly all of his he aspires. We are going to support Her neet ls inferlor t0 that of the
earlier in the day opponents were most active participants. ur. Roach because he has been our Unlted states.
With the mayoralty question out of the way, it did not take intimate friend, counselor and com-! "We have abundance of time to de
long to dispose of the remainder of the nominations, as none of panion for twenty years; because weivelop a p,an under whlcn thls &overa
the contests were of long duration, all delegates seeming desirous know him like a book and love him ment ean ac&ieve a position so power-
Of forgetting the Strife of the earlier hours and Uniting to nomi- like a brother; because his record isiful as t0 withstand all assaults.
nate a ticket which can drive the common enemy to the tall brush without a parallel in Missouri history j citizen soldiers
next month as Will be done. in the matter of being constantly on , "This country must depend upon the
The Democrats of St. Joseph should now forget the personal the job. getting full value for every ability of its citizens to defend them
Strife of the convention of Thursday. They should remember that dollar expended, collecting and ac-; selves rather than upon a professional
there is a common enemy in front of them, ready for battle. They counting for every dollar that is due military class.
Should turther remember that
ferences and their fights, just as
remember that while as party
lenaea strenuously lor their favorite candidate; that they were
good men fighting against equally good men, all Of their own faith,
and that they now owe it to themselves and to the great Demo -
cratic party of which they are a part and which is the party of
the people to bind up their wounds, forget the rancor of the
battle of Thursday, and in solid phalanx as 6ne man hurl them-
selves against the common enemy who would overwhelm them.
READ THIS, CROAKERS
And Possibly You Will Not Dispute
the Republican Associated
Press Reports
Tho Associated Press Is always
and possibly will always be Republi
can, and therefore has always hereto
fore colored all of its reports that
way. On this account tbe following
dispatch sent out by it will have a
'tendency to force some of the Repub-
ACCLAMATION
Barney Reilly
George W. Stafford
. . Robert J. Kennard
James Taylor Alice
Jgust H. Holkenbrink
Bird B. Bigham
, Samuel I. Motter
.i . . - . . .
by tne Democrats oi bt. J oseph
"i t fr.i i .. i n.i'.
Z "7"; ""-""- "-";
uemocrais oi at. josepn stoou
to carry the banner of the party
was disappointment to many
always will be when good men
one man can be chosen for each
REILLY
Reilly forces, which was made
were disclosed as the delegates
this same enemy has had their dlf-
the Democrats had. They should
men they differed; while they con-
,,,..., . ,
llcan calamity howlers and croakers
. .... , .. , ..
to think a few times. Read it:
Washington. D. C. March 16.-Man.Lwn wh, riti.n rni-i v- n,nr?
ufacturlng plants in seven leading ln
dustries of the United States have in
creased their working forces an aver-'
age of 15 per cent within the last Would Be a Typical Day
year, according to figures given out' M,TOr ,- Keil of St. Loulu av
today by the department of labor. 1 1 Mar nnry tt ct S L"1' B.ay"
Wages paid out in these Industries, ho will wait until next April before
have Increased nearly 30 per cent announcing bis intentions as to his pro-
wltbin that period.
This does not look as though Demo
cratic claims of prosperity are overdrawn.
HIRSCH SILVER JUBILEE
Thursday Marked the Quarter Cen-
tut Since this Great Firm Began
Bus ness in St. Joseph
MoTt' yesterday-Thursday.
Mfirch ic-was a red letter day with
t,iat sterling firm, the Hirsch Bros.
Dr- Gootl8 company, for it marked
thflr silver nnnk'oronrv rVinlr miar. '
, , , --
ter centurv of active anil Hiirrpssfnl
quar-
F-ssful
. , , - , . -
u Bn," 1' T .'
bratt tht" occasl,on ,ln a l,fopr 'ay
and the many riends of the Institu.
tlon who called upon that day and
u,ndered thelr fcIIcltatJon8 VM an
and the many friends of the institu-
ample earnest of the good feeling en-'
tertalned toward this progressive firm.
When Sol and Morris Hirsch first
opened the doors of the New York
Racket at
19 Felix street twenty-five
years ago, they did not dream that
they "ulay would be occupying the
magnificent building, with Its wealth
ftnn.1n nl...wl ?. -11 -....A-
lho worl( whIch nmv the
.,, ... r-, u.v. i t n i r. i
triangle at Eighth and Felix and Fred-
,,,,.,. , ,u ,. , , ,.
Tll tl
have done so because they have con- senator James a. ueeu oi Mlsbouri
ducted business on business principles' made a Rrcat speech at Milwaukee,
and along modern lines. They have w,s- a short tlrne R wnen h ad
given a dollar value for every dollar I dressed all of the people who could
that has come Into their establish- get wlthln the Bund of nIs volce- H's
ment. They have shown the people sP-'ech dealt at great length with the
what they asked for, and have given Questions which are now troubling the
them the best that is why they cele- President, and the causes which led to
brated their silver Jubilee with such them and the remedy for these ills
satisfaction-and why the public con- as Senator Reed sees It and them,
gratulated them fo heartily. Senator Reed's speech was so full
of logic and so apropos to the situa-
tlon that Congressman Burke of Wis
PEARL OF GREAT PRICE consin, in a speech that he made last
week, asked that it be placed in the
It Felt the Effects of the Boiling Pot, Congressional Record and made a part
Not the Teeth of the thereof, which was done. The car-
Finder dlnal thoughts of Senator Reed as ex-
pressed in his Milwaukee speech
Orby A. Jackson of the postoffice should be read by every American,
department has possibly once in the and tne Cpit0me which follows tells
dreamy long ago read of "casting the trutns whlch tne junior genator
pearls before swine" and he may yet from Missouri elucidated. Here are
remember the quotation, although no ns deductions:
up-to-date postoffice employe of the Our Foreign Policy
present is much given to either Bible
history or biblical rumlnatlon-but he "0ur natIon ls hampered in its for
now knows the effect of casting pearls elsn Pllr- b-v three classes ot clU
into the boiling pot-
-and he knows
it in this way: "First A small percentage of our
i Monday night he stopped at a local foreign-born citizens who are more a,t
slaughter emporium and bought a tached to the land of their birth than
quart of oysters which he carefully to the land which gave them liberty,
carried home, and his helpmate as education, and, the opportunity for ad
carefully converted them into an ap- vancement. However, these extrem
petizing stew. As the minion of Uncle 'sts do not at all represent the great
Sam started to swallow a goodly sized bdy of our foreign-born population,
libation, his teeth met up with a round wno have steadfastly remained loyal,
t substance which he promptly removed "Second Advocates of 'peace at any
from his mouth and examined. It Price.' This doctrine makes for war.
, proved to be a pearl of unusual size nt for peace. Once we are regarded
almost as large as a buckshot and as a nation of cowards, we will be
when Jackson took it to Jeweler Roh-1 compelled to fight for existence,
wedder and discovered that it was a "Third Demagogues who are will
real pearl and that before it had lnB to embroil us in a foreign war if
been boiled in that stew it was worth
swine-
WHY IT SUPPORTS HIM
The Monroe County Appeal Tells Why,.. . , ...
,. , , ' rry. ' the central powers can not get to us.
It Is for Roach for Governor . . . .. ... . . .
.... . because the allies have enmeshed
of Missouri .. , ... ,
them in a net ot steel.
..,,, "The allies can not withdraw their
The Appeal Is going to support Cor- ( ., . . . . , , .. .
T, . . fleets to use against us, for in that
nellus Roach for governor. Every I . , a . , . , .
. , event Germany's fleet would destroy
man nnw In th rnrp ls nur warm nor. . .
the state, or making a business insti-
tutlon out of a political job. He is
Missouri's efficiency man. It Is the
day of efficiency, the time when men
of experience, discretion, courage and
' industry are needed In public office,
Cornelius Roach has all these good
traits, combining with them a person-
ality of the most pleasing sort and a
character that is without blemish. Be-
ln8 Just a Pla,n' hard-working busi-
ness man, he can promise nothing
i .. , . , , .. . .
I more than a plain, hard-working busl -
I . .,,'., , ,Ua .,, , ,,,
ti:o) uuuuuiotiaiiuu 4U tuu cfirtit vt uto
- !xrr p,v inn,i
posed candidacy for the Republican
nomination for governor. April first
would be a good date for the announce
ment. Worth County Times.
FOREIGN POLICY
AS REED SEES II
The Nation Is Hampered in Its
Actions by Three Distinct
"
Clash's nf niti7Pni
Iclfc&es OI IrlUZeuS
AND THE SENATOR
EASILY DEFINES THEM
In His Great Speech at Milwaukee He
Told His Hearers Where He Stood
on the Questions that Are Now Vex
ing President Wilson, and with the
President All of the People of the
United States Who Love Their Coun
try and Hold It In Regard and Es
teem Above All Else
zens:
they can thereby gain temporary
antage.
reparedness Question
should approach the considera-
preparedness calmly, dispas-
sionately, and deliberately. There is
no occasion ior nysterta or panic or
for that haste which Is begotten of
' fear.
i
"As Innp n tho Ptlrnnpjin vnr Inett:
"I am opposed to the establishment
of a great military class or a great
(standing army. We must place our
citizenry in such a condition that they
, can meet, if need be, on fairly equal
j terms, the professional soldiers of Eu-
. rope.
American Neutrality
EOvernment has miintained i
strlct neraiity """"
,. ... ' ,.,. ,
. , , , . , . .
by seizing our goods and destroying
. , , , -S . .
'our shipping. The Germans have sont
hundreds of our citizens to the ocea-i
I bottom.
"Germany has admitted her 'guilt
and substantially conceded that the
United States was right in evt-ry con
tention. "You can trust President Wilson to
continue, powerfully, forcefully, nnih
even threateningly, to urge our claim,
against the allies. Why should nny
(Continued on Page Eight)
-sjwwywj
