THE BARRE DAILY TIMES
VOL. XX NO. 3.
UAUKE, VERMONT, SATURDAY, MARCH 18, 11)10.
miCK, OXK CENT.
WILL NOT ALLOW .
U. S. TROOPS
TO ENTER TOWN
General Gavira. a Carranza Command
er, Is Said to Have Refused Permis
sion to General Pershing's Expedi
'ionarv Force. Raising Doubts of Car-
- ' --
ranza's Co-operation
GERMAN GUNS
DID NOT REPLY
TO FRENCH FIRE
SON-IN-LAW EXONERATED.
NO BANDITS FOUND .
BY AMERICANS
It Is Thought That Villistas Are Re
treating Into the Mountain Region
of the Galeana District And Will Not
Stand For a Battle
San Antonio, Texas, March 18. General Gavira's reported
refusal to permit the American troops pursuing Villa to enter the
Mexican town of Casas Grandes has revived doubt at Fort Sam
Houston to-day of the full co-operation of the de facto government
forces. What General Pershing intended to do in answer to the
refusal of the Mexican commander to allow him to enter or pass
through Casas Grandes was not known at Funston's headquarters,
but it was not regarded as probable that he would make an issue
of the point. '
The latest reports from General Pershing revealed no clashes
with Mexicans and did not indicate the exact location of Villa. It
is believed that he is in the mountains of the Galeana district and
will continue his shifting flight without offering any formal re
sistance, perhaps for many days.
The Paris Official Statement
Says That a Concentrated
Fire Against the German
Trenches in the Carbeaux
Woods Did Not Draw Any
Return from the Germans
HEAVY ARTILLERY
FIRING NEAR VAUX
Last Night Passed Without
A n y Infantry Engage
ment on the Whole West
ern Front No Attack by
Germans Since a Massed
Charge Thursday Night
Since the massed attacks of Thursday
night against the village and fort of
aux, northeast of erdiin, the Germans
have not advanced at any point on the
defenses of the fortress, Paris announced
to-dny.
Last night passed without infantry ac
tivity and even the artillery action is
described as intermittent. The Paris, war
The Grand Jury Decides Robert Downei
Didn't Attack Wife's Mother.
Rutland, March 18. The grand jury in
Rutland county court, which haa been at
work since Tuesday under the direction
of State' Attorney C. V. l'oulin, report
ed yesterday five true bills anil one not
found. Ilie mimes of the persons against
whom the bills weie found were all made
public with the exception of one who has
not yet been arrested. The bill not found
was the case of Robert Downea of Can-
tlcton, who was charged with making
an assault iixm Mrs. Helen limit w ell
of Cant let on, his mother-in-law. The
woman was considerably injured and
claimed that some man entered her bed
room at night and struck her, getting
away unrecognized in the darkness.
Downes was suspected mainly because,
there had been some friction between
him and his wife.
The only charge that the grand jury
found against Calvin Rich, the Mciidon
Civil war veteran, who is charged with
stabbing John Mclaughlin three times
in the back during a drunken row at
Rich'g home several week ago, is sim
ple, assault. Rich ia in jail in default of
$1,500 bail.
Charles Sargent of this city, who point
ed a rifle at Policeman T. C. Klworth
and Martin Kennedy and threatened to
shoot them, as they claim, when they
went to Sargent's house to arrest him a
short time ago, was indicted on the
charge of assault with intent to kll.
ilia will be the first criminal case tried
during the term, Mr. l'oulin states. Sar-
gent is held under bail of $1,300. The
grand jm v found reason for holding John
King of Middletown Springs on the
charge of assault with intent to com
mit rapu. The woman eoncerned is Mrs.
lieatrice Cone, wife of F. II. Cone.
Anson Harrington of South Walling
ford will also face trial on the charge
of grand larceny as result of an indict
ment charging him with altering the fig
ures in a bankbook belonging to his
grandmother, Mrs. Diantha Harrington
of Danby, at the time lie made a deposit
1
LISTERS TOLD
OF DUTIES
By
Commissioner Plumley
at Tax Conference
Meeting
RIGHT OF OFFSETS
WAS EXPLAINED
Commissioner Plumley
Preparing Peddlers'
License Bill
Is
for her in a Rutland bank, the allegei
crooked deal netting him nearly $300.
The so-called crime was undiscovered
unusin v r .a tmtil f li jt t root sts-ai r t t I
u B uermans "' nl bank called in the books to be checked
up. King has furnished $M(K) bail.
AMERICANS DO NOT INTEND
TO OCCUPY ANY TOWNS
J
Washington, D. C, March 18. American troops pursuing Villa
bandits have no intention and no orders to occupy any cities or
towns during the march into Mexico. This statement was made
at the White House and the war department to-day, after the
receipt of a report that General Gavira, the Carranza commander
at Juarez, had given notice that General Pershing's troops would
iibt be allowed to occupy Casas Grandes.
WASHINGTON REPORTS
MENTION NO DISOR
DER ON TlfE BORDER
Secretary Baker Declares That He Knows
of No Trouble Officials Think
Villa is Fleeing Into
Mountain Fastnesses.
Washington, D. C, March 18. Francis
as a matter of precaution and not be
cause of any overt acts
against them.
The most significant report was re
ceived from Durango, where the Amer
ican vice consul sent his wife and chil
dren out of the country. This followed
closely on the arrival on the border of
the American consul from Torreon, with
a large number of Americans.
Americans brought numerous disquiet
ing stories about the attitude of the
Mexicans in the interior, especially in
Chihuahua, Durango and Coahuila, but
invariaoiv uiey told tnese stories pn-
reply to a concentrated fire directed bv
French guns against German trenches in
Corbeaux wood, and in the direction of
hill No. 2, tio miles northeast of Dead
Man's hill, on the other bank of the
Meuse," there has been heavy work by
artillery, notably in the region of Vaux.
Reports of developments of importance
in other war fields is lacking. There ap
pears to be increasing military activity
in the Balkans, however. Heavy, troop
movements in Bulgaria are reported
from Bucharest, the railroads being giv
en over exclusively to this traffic.
Recent rumors of the assassination of
Enver Pasha. the Turkish minister of
war, were followed to-day by an official
statement from Constantinople that he
has returned to Constantinople from an
inspection, trip to Svria, Palestine and
Arabia.
SUGGEST BARRE BILL
FOR QUINCY 195
One Item in Dispute Said to Have Been
Eliminated, Leaving Two To Be
Taken Up.
VON TIRPITZ WANTED
TO ATTACK ENGLAND
WITH WHOLE NAVY
His Plan Was Vetoed By Emperor and
That Was the Reason He Was
Forced Out of Control of
German Navy That is
a Rome Story.
London, March 18 A wireless dispatch
from Rome says that the retirement of
Admiral Von Tirpitz as German minis-
of hostility J ter of marine, was occasioned by his in
tention to attack Great Britain with the
entire German navy. This plan was voted,
according to these advices, by Emperor
William and 1'rince Henry.
co uia ana nis nana are neeing Deiore vateiy ana, wlien asked to make any
tin; American expeditionary forces in statement for publication, insisted that
northern Mexico to-day, in the opinion everything was quiet in the section from
of army officers here. This is believed which they came.
to be baaed, upon dispatches from the! They explained they expected to re
American columns, reporting that no out-1 turn to Mexico when conditions there
laws had been seen up to late yester- became more settled and they did not
day, and strengthened the opinion that wish to say anything which might arouse
the Villa forces would not attempt to resentment of the Mexicans,
make a stand. Army men declared that i
SMALL ATTACK REPULSED.
At Southeast of Bois Des Buttes, Paris
Officially Reports.
Paris, March 18. Only, intermittent
bombardments took place yesterday in
the region about Verdun, according to j jn the air in this citv.
the trench olhiial communication issued "A very frank'discussion of the situa
last night. No infantry attacks have i tion from both sides followed.
occurred. The official statement says: "Only two sections now remain an-
"To the north of the Aisne a German settled! One is section 27 which is Anv
The Quincy (Mass.) Patriot of March
17 had the following concerning the labor
situation in the Quincy granite industry
"One of the three items in dispute be
tween the granite manufacturers and the
granite cutters was eliminated from fur
ther consideration when the conference
committees of both iis met Thursday
evening on the invitation of John K,
Scott, president of the Board of Trade
in an effort to settle the present granite
strike.
"The item was section 9 of the changes
asked by the cutters and relates to the
price to be paid for cutting granite in
Quincy which is quarried outside of the
city. The cutters after a long debate
agreed to eliminate it.
"The strike has been on since March 1st
when the bill of prices expired. Several
conferences were held previous to that
but nothing was accomplished, and a sus
pension of work followed.
"March 2, Pres. Scott addressed letters
to both sides offering the good offices of
his organization. The offer was accepted
and last night' session was the first of
its kind ever held in Quincy during labor
trouble.
"Mr. Scott pointed out that the strike
must be settled sooner or later and ar
gued that the sooner it was the better it
would be. He spoke of the loss to the
business men and workmen and said that
while business was at a standstill in
Quincy, the representatives of concerns of
other cities were securing work for their
firms and pointing out that things arc up
the campaign would quickly develop into
guerilla warfare if there was any oppo
sition. The latest dispatch to the war depart
ment makes no mention of any disorder
on the border, according to Secretary of
War Baker.
MORE TROOPS SENT WEST.
U. S. TROOPS CAMPED
NEAR CASAS GRANDES
The Americans Are Reported to Have
Been 23 Miles from Place Where
Villa Was Last Reported.
El Paso, Tex., March 18. American
Two Detachments of Cavalry Dispatched valrymen pursuing Villa were camped
frnm Pniiimh,,. at dawn to-day at Colonia Dublan. one
of the environs of Casas Grandes. They
arrived during 1 he night. Ihrough Colo
nia Dublan runs the road to the Galeana
district, 25 miles southeast, where Villa
was last definitely reported. News of
the encampment at Colonia Dublan dis
pelled the fears of any disputes with the
constitutionalist authorities over what
position the American troops should oc
cupy at Casas Grande. The column
first into this important Mexican settle
ment is said to have been the cavalry
from Hachita.
MEXICANS ARE FIGHTING.
from Columbus,
Columbus. N. M., March 18, by messeii'
rger to Kl Paso. Two detachments of
cavalry left the expeditionary main base
here yesterday, going in a westerly di
rection. Whether they were intended to
reinforce the punitive columns was not
known One report indicated that they
were going out to help protect the line
of communications of that part of the
expedition under Col. George Dodd, which
three days ago circled to the westward
M miles from here and entered Mexico
about the same time with the main col
umn, which went direct south from here.
lieliable rcjiorts here indicate that
come of the large ranching and cattle in
terests on the Mexican side of the border
near here have offered a reward of $3',
tM'o for Villa, dead or alive. Officers here
Mid they had reason to believe that news
of this immense reward had caused somn
commotion among the peons who have
hi-ard of it in northern Mexico.
attack directed against one of our small
posts to the southeast of the Bois Buttes
was repulsed after fighting with gre
nades. Spirited actions by our military
in the region of Ville-Anx-Bois and on
national, state or municipal law enacted
for the betterment of wages ar condi
tions in our trade shall not b violated.'
"It is understood that the manufec.
turers oppose it on the grounds that laws
the Craeonne plateau have taken place, i rotild be enacted which would create con
Constitutionalists and Villistas Clash at
Torreon.
Torreon. Mexk-o, March IS. Fighting
ha been in progress since early yester
day between eont itutionalits "and Vil
listas at Canon Chonritos in the Torreon
ditrict.
"In the Argonne our batteries continue
to'shell the German lines of communica
tion behind the front.
"In the region to the north of Ver
dun no infantry actions took place dur
ing the day. The bombardment is inter
mittent to the west of the Meusc and
in the Woevre. It is more intense on
the right bank of the Meuse.
"In the region of Douaumont and
Damloup our artillery has countered vig
orously the fire of the German batteries
and destroyed important depots of am
munition at Champ Neuville.
'There have been no events on the re
mainder of the front except the custom- I
ary cannonades."
WILLIAMSTOWN.
AMERICANS HURRY N0RTIL
BLOW ON THROAT FATAL.
Because of Unsettled Feeling All Through Pugilist Andrew Crowley Killed in Bout
Mexico. j At Philadelphia.
EI Paso, Tex., Manh 1. Increased ' Phildelphia. March 1H. Andrew Crw
tineaine among Americans throughout ley. a featherweight professional boxer
Mexico, especially in the north and west, of this city. a killed last night in a
was evidenced by report from various bout with Mike Mskme, also of l'b,la
eetions that United States citizens were delphia. IVath. according to the police,
rit her on their way to the border or were w caused by a Idow on the larvm la
j-reparing to leave. the third muni
At virt sauy every point of entry along
The men of the Cniversalist church
will serve a baked bean dinner in the
dining room of grange hall Wednesday,
March 22, from 11:30 to 1 o'clock.
Twenty-five cents pays the bill.
Miss F.rma Passer was able to return
home Wednesday from Barre City hos
pital, where she bad been for the past
two weeks for an operation for appen
dicitis.
The frequent snows and high wind of
the past 10 days have caused the hill
road to become ldly drifted and the
carriers have hail difficult? in making
ditions which would result in increasing
the cost of production. It has been gen
erally remarked that such conditions
would give the manufacturers an oppor
tunity to reopen discussions before the
agreement expired.
"The other is section 2!) which refers
jto the length of time the new bill of
! prices is to be run. The manufacturers
, want a four-year agreement and the men
desire a five-year agrement.
"The committees agreed to meet next
Wednesday evening and try and effect a
settlement on these points.
"Pres. Scott in closing suggested that
a settlement of five years be accepted,
the condition being that the bill of prices
and conditions accepted by Barre, Vt.,
in 1020 would be acceptable to Quincy in
1021."
JEAN CRONES INDICTED.
Alleged Poisoner of Soup at a Chicago
Banquet.
Chicago. March 18. A true bill charr
ing Jean Crones, alleged poisoner of soup
served at the Archbishop Mundelein din
ner, with assault with intent to kill and
murder was voted yesterday bv the
grand jury, it was announced.
Charles Furthmann. a lawyer, who has
been working a an investigator for the
letective bureau was the principal wit-
At the annual conference of the listers
of Washington county and the surround
ing counties at the Montpelier city hal)
this afternoon, Tax Commissioner Charles
A. Plumley of Northtleld outlined bis re
cent t instructions to the .listers, town
clerks and others throughout the state
and called attention to certain typo
graphical errors in the bulletin he had
sent out.
Commissioer Plumley said that the
office of lister requires the exercise of
good judgment and impartiality; that
the lister is pre-eminently the most im
portant official in the whole scheme of
general property taxation. Every effort
to better the system should be concen
trated upon him and his work. The
germ of inequitable taxation finds its
origin in the local assessment, fcvery
step taken outside the straight and nar
row path marked out by the statutes,
leads to greater and more glaring in
equalities. The law prescribed the stand
ard (if value, the plan to be followed,
and the lister is armed and equipped as
the law directs. He does not make, and
is not responsible for, but he has taken
an oath to enforce the law. If a law is
not right, ia inequitable, or unjust, the
surest way to have such a law corrected
is to enforce it impartially. It is the
duty of the lister to see that he who lias
been paying too much should pay less,
and be who has been paying too little
shall pay his full share.
He emphasized tha fact that a 5 per
cent indebtedness, does not entitle a man
to claim the benefit of an offset, that it
is only indebtedness on which 6 per cent
or over is paid that entitles the taxpay
er to an offset. He distributed illustra
tive examples which he had worked out
in detail covering the. matter of offsets
involving the particular problems which
the listers will be apt to encounter in
their work. These examples arc based
upon section 4 of No. 34 of the acts of
lfil.Y and will simplify the work of the
listers if they are followed. Thee ex
amples strictly follow the statute. The
first steps toward the formation of a
V ermont Tax Officials association
wereaken by the distribution of a ten
tative constitution. This matter has
been discussed, at prior meetings. The
other New England states have such as
sociations as have a large number of the
tates outside of New England. The as
sociation is formed "for the dissemina
tion of information concerning, and a
better understanding of tax laws, and
dminifttration and enforcement of thej
same. it is composed or listers and
other officials having to do with the ad
ministration of the tax law in Vermont.
Incidentally, Mr. Plumley distributed
bulletin 'showing the number of ped-
llerj' licenses now issued in the state,
the law relating to the licensing of ped
dlers and the disposition which is made
f the fees received from the licensing of
peddlers. The fees are distributed
mong the various towns for the pur
pose of equalizing opportunities in the
public educational system." It is appar-1
ent from an examination of this schedule
nd from one's knowledge of conditions
they exist that a large number of
peddlers are not licensed as required by
w. ,
Mr. Plumley has drawn a bill for in
troduction at the next session of the leg
islature, which places the granting of li
censes of peddlers under the supervision
of the Vermont tax department, and
provides among other things that no lo
cal license can be granted except upon
presentation to the local authorities of
a state license. This follows the law
applying to the granting of licenses to
circuses, etc., and would make the la
self-enforcing to a certain extent. The
revenue now derived from peddlers' li
censes is inconsiderable as compared
with what it should lie.
Mr. Plumley referred to bulletin No. 7,
which he has recently distributed to
listers, town clerks and others through
out the state, and called attention to
certain typographical errors in that bul
letin, paying particular attention to
page 23. iines 22 and 23. He said that
the words "sub-division (b) of section 3"
should lie struck out, and that the words
section 4" should be inserted in lieu
thereof. The context discloses that this
is a typographical error, but in order
that there may be no confusion. Mr. j
DOESN'T WANT THE JOB.
, D. Carpenter's Resignation as Wire
Inspector Accepted.
R. D. Carpenter, third assistant en
gineer of the fire department, whose nom
ination as wire inspector to succeed C
(.'. Perkins was confirmed by the board
of aldermen Tuesday eveninu. scut in
hta resignation to the city council at a
itpetial meeting in the council chamlier
lust evening. Air. Carpenter's reasons for
winning tit resign were fully understood
bv the council and the resignation was
accepted without dissent. Jt is expected
that his successor will be nanicd at Hih
uldcrinanio session Tuesday night.
Further proof of his contention that
a water rate assessed him was exorbitant
was furnished by George F. Ball of Hill
street, whoso remarks to the council
Tuesday evening were substantiated by
the special session. Mrs. C. F. Thompson,
a tenant of Mr. Ball's property when 1m
first assumed charge of the two houses,
corrolKirated Mr. Ball's statement con
cerning the water connections on the
property, and the second witness, Mr.
Parker, a tenant from llio to IfHW and
again after 1U1NJ, told essentially ine
same story.
After Mr. Ball had gone to the pains
of bringing witnesses to tho council
chamber and introducing them, he was
BARRE GRANITE
TO BE BOOSTED
Great Publicity Campiagn
Inaugurated by Barre
Association
THOUSANDS WILt;s J
SPENT IN CA AIGN
One Page A) m Saturday
Evenirig-'Vost Is to
Cost $5,000
An advertising campaign involving
some of the best magazine mediums in
the country, involving tlm expenditure of
ars, and designed ta
resources of
rm it r (i 1 1 1 n 1 1
p to tim" ' r. ,,.?
..-,i;r .,f (!, l,le rcauing puiiiic in a lorcime manner
informed by tho water committee thatj., , . ..
the council did not doubt his statement "l" , ' ii , '
of the case in the first place. Tho whole ! hT" home. tho K
matter was practically laid up to tho ! 'l""1' fnd ot
Sunt. F. O. Lee of ''.a en '"a,1K"ted by the Barre Quar
nfc amplified Mr. rier8 & Manufacturers' association. De
ruing a water cm- ' ttti'8 a yBte'a.tic nfj persistent cam-
practically
al!ci;cd amhuruity in the
rules and regulations,
the water department
Hull'. cat.n.. nnnnr;..r.
....;,. ,.-i,;,.i, i- .,n-l l'wan P"tf r the advertising of the nativo
paving much more than the u.inimwm ne along lines never before attempted
hurge, even though the faucet connee- "u so ihiiou
nection was used but little.. When Mf. I "ena4imrxpr. wnere manuiacturers nn.l
Hull ,iVerii,in T,riitn astern, of bnrd quarneYs alike have been working on
and soft water in his own cellar and in : I,,n for the big movement for several
the basement of his tenement, stated ; '"!)
that his'own family, as well as the telJi-J . f,,lon magazines as the Saturday Even-
nts, prefer to use the private system '"B r.verynouy s, mo .vorids hoik
ven though they have to pump it. AI-j an' l,,e Mitional Geographic magazine
derman Glyssxm advanced his opinion Bre w used as mediums. Jt is to be
that most people w ill ignore a pump j w,mt ' termed an annual campaign, tho
when they can get water with less effort j""" of the magazines patronized at thu
by turning a faucet. Mr. Ball thought outset to be retained throughout tha
the private water was enough better to I succeeding months with the probability
justify the additional expenditure of en- that contracts will be renewed at the
' . . . . ' . . J C 41.. . 11"
ergy incident to pumping, in passing, -" uit j, approximately 10,000,.
the appellant gave a brief resume of tMHI people are to be reached alono
water, sewer and gas installations in 1 through the four magazines cited. In
that section of Hill street where he re-1 its issue of March 23 the Saturday Even
sides, stating that some of the expensn ing Post will contain a full-page adver
usually bome by the city in extending tisement. Everybody's will contain a
such utilities had been assumed by the very liberal amount of Barre granite ad
consumers, vertising when its April number appears
While the alleged ambiguous wording on the bookstands March 23. World'.
of the rule? and regulations was held , Work for April, issued March 30, is to
responsible in part for the misunder- contain a largo space of Barre grauito
standing, it was voted to rebate Mr. Ball , advertising as is the April number of
the sum of $1 as an overcharge. I ho ; the National (reograptuc magazine. In
rules rate and regulations as printed ouidicating the magnitude of the campaign
cards, were referred to the water com-j on which the association lias embarked,
mittee with instructions to interpret, 1 a single item may be cited, the fact that
clarify and revise.
Applications of A. J. Gauthrie for a
lunch room license and Murphy & Weafer
for pool and bowling licenses were re
ferred to the license committee for investigation.
BARRE GETS VERDICT
ON JUDGE'S ORDER
Had Been Sued By B. W. Hooker & Co.
for Damages Done By Water
During January Thaw
Last Year.
Without leaving their seats the jury
which heard the case of B. W. .Hooker
& Co., vs. City of Barre, growing out
of (1h 111 age done to the stock in the plain
tiff's store a year ago during a January
thaw as the result of the drain pipes
failing to accommodate the water, re
turned a verdict in favor of the defend
ant yesterday afternoon in county court,
acting on instructions from Judge Jred
M. Butler. The instructions from the
court came after a motion made by the
defendant for a verdict had been argued.
The defendant during the trial, which
occupied part of two days, conceded the
damage done to the stock, the question
being the interpretation of the law,
?.i,siu is- 10 he paid lor the space priv
ilege of a single page in one issue of the
Saturday Evening Post.
The desire further to advertise tha
superior qualities of Barre granite found
its origin among the quairiers and manu
facturers in the fall of 1913. After sev
eral months of preliminary work, an or
ganization was effected, the name being
the Barre Quarricrs & Manufacturers'
association. A committee of' four mem
bers each from the quarry owners and
the manufacturers is in charge of the
organization. James M. Boutwell, IT. J.
M. Jones, D. M. Barclay .and J. A. Healy
represent the quarry owners and the
manufacturers who belong to the com
mittee are W. I). MacDonald, William A.
Murray, E. J. Batchelder and Harold P.
Hinman, the association secretary. J. M.
Boutwell is the chairman and II. P. Hin
man the secretary.
In January tho committee let tha
contract for the. campaign to the Tavlor-
Critchfield-Clague company, whose offices
are in Chicago, Detroit, New York and
Boston. In connection with the advertis
ing that is to appear in the magazines
already mentioned, 10,000 booklets, very
attractively designed, printed on fine
paper and illustrated with 32 half-tones,
have been ordered. Barre granite as it
has been used in -creating some of the
historical memorials in the I'nited States,
the stone as 'it has been used for private
monuments and other allusions to its
whether it made the citv liable. John
W. Gordon represented the plaintiff and : reputation are to be treated in the book-
City Attorney ishart and b. Hollister
Jackson the defendant citv.
Court was adjourned yesterday after
noon following the verdict until Monday
afternoon, and the jurors were excused
until Tuesday forenoon at 0 o'clock. Next
week it is probable that the case of Seth
C. Rich, ndm., vs. George H. Cross, will
be taken up for trial. This is one of
two cases growing out of an automobile
accident which occurred last summer on
the Northfield road in Montpelier, when
Mrs. Seth Rich was fatally injured as
an automobile owned and driven by Mr,
Cross left the highway and plunged down
a steep bank. Uarren K. Austin of M,
Albans represents the defendant and the
Plumleya the defendant.
A general assumpsit suit, Allen Lum
ber Co., vs. Mary and Charles Zanleoni
of Barre, was filed to-day with the coun
ty clerk.
FUNERAL LARGELY ATTENDED.
lets, which are for distribution to the
trade, retailers, etc., and to the consum
er. Manufacturers and qimrriers arc co
operating with the dealers in making
the big campaign a success. A number
of prominent dealers have already signi
fied their hearty approval of the move
ment. Cemetery superintendents, inter
ested always in introducing only memo
rials of good taste in their cemeteries,
have endorsed the campaign with ona
accord. They are also a unit in believ
ing that the campaign will tend to ele
vate the quality of memorials in ceme
teries throughout the country.
Six thousand letters describing the
campaign have been mailed to dealers in
the I'nited States and Canada and next
week G.OOO additional communications,
each containing a proof sheet of the Sat
urday Evening Post advertisement, will
be sent out from the Barre office. All of
the work incident to the campaign will
be handled by Secretary Hinman.
their trips. Prolwte Judge Genree I.
Stow of Cbel-wa was stalled on the war ne-.
from Washington to this town f..r some j several years ago. according to Mr.
time yeterday but was helped out by j Kurthmann". Crne made his appearance
Forrest Seaver. There are many places . j Chicago, having come frm New Yoik
Iter ft friuivr rlnft.f mli tli',.:.l. ......... ... .i
I roads for conoid ratde distances to airc.
' depth of four to six feet. I "t r-.nes . active in placing soap,
j Mr. Hiram S. Iniry f out of town on !nd and ri-e in the salt and pepper of
en extended visit which will inolufe her 'unfair' restaurants." Mid Furthmann.
i-ter. Mr. C. W. ( Whraneof Woo,l ile. Ttr,.n were thus made ill. J ,n
N. H, Mr. and Mrs. Edward I- Clark of formed al. that Crone. h,J a chemical
Bradford and Nat Abbott of Ft C- hih turned meat blk but which wa
jir.th. not poixmott, !
S Oliver W. Martin g"t a fll whiK Jnt ttor th dinner to th .irh. I
That of Thomas J. Deavitt Was Held at
Montpelier.
The funeral of Thomas ,1. Deavitt, a
prominent bank man of Montpelier and
for half a century a practicing lawyer
Il,,mlev l. Hitrihnl,l "Rrrta- lit "asnuigvon county, was neiu !
n: .......:.. r... nome 01 nis son. r.uwaru 11. ieaviii, onisireei.
cnillllK Hlirilli'Ml IV iin c Ni"lin'. .. !! , . It
the benefit of the newlv elected listers, "'"-'" I" - ..""
,e discussed the chances in tax law s j " o ciock, wiere oeing many peop.e
made bv the legislatures of l'MK, ll10.l'n iwn.iance, including memoers 01 ie
1012 and 1013. He referred to No. 4H of ,r, ",,u """ "" ,
nev. .--laniey r. imtmneni, yawx i
Bethany church, Montpelier. was ofli-
ciatnur clerevman, and the hearer were
as follows: Four on. Edward H.. Hen
the law of 1013. which facilitates the
collection of poll taxes, and to No. h of
the acts of 1013, which provides for the
appointment of a limited number of spe-
1 .... T t-:,i: t e
1 1 . ..,..P,n;n. ...1. ,.: TV l.eorre 1. una i 1111111 .1. inn tin
'il HI 'IIIUll V- -I, Vt I,IT- lilt .IUA,III - - till,
f ',r olant.. mills, dams and other nJ " James H Holmes and
power 1
special forms of taxable property.
Amos J. Eaton, esq., of South TIoTal
tn. of the s-tate board of forestry, spoke
on "Forestry Taxation and on the "In-
. .,..... . ...... ,..- ,,..... ,...rrinr a nWj mopping a tew ?y as-. tr;fcing on ,ih..P. Fnrthmafin said. C rune retime 1
tier, Americans arrived yesterday fron quarry for Jone llro. at ebVrviB hi, side arrMi a and breaking two fmt t MU ,t the I niwt.iir
the interior of Mexieo. iB the majority h. len awarded to J. E. throaa of ! rifc. He ia comfortable aa l able to U lut, wUre tie ban-rtet ... fcrVL ir
if inttascra they tid they left M. iko, Bmhrftoe. aroirnd. j.vt.
Henrr D. Holme, both of Montnclier.
! There were many floral tribute, includ
ing set pieces from the Capital Saving
; Bank and Trust Co.. of w hich Mr. Deavitt
- . . , . - . . . Iisn pern prefiiut-iu n.t iiiih irnit, anil
ventory from the Standpoint of Lister " . '-..!,;... r,.,;. i
o, r.M.. cuti..n. The hank was cl.ed all dav
There were about ... li.ler. and others. . . , ... Mr
llliei.p." -t,..
Hie Climrll HIT muni l Hi r. 1 .
Among tii'
Special Meeting.
Special meeting of lumpers, boxers and
Jerrifkmen wiil be bell in Senrrpini
Mork. rooiii Saturday, March 1. for
the mirr 01 lailotmi on international
committee. 1U1M l;x open from II
a. in. to p. in. AH member are r
i'ietr4 to attccl. Per order t-retrj.
Funeral To Be Held Sunday.
The body of Miss Addie Richardson,
who died suddenly in Brooklyn Thurs
day, will be brought to Barre this even
ing and the funeral will be held front
the home of C. S. Meaker, 40 Jefferson
Sunday afternoon at 2 o'clock,
Rev. J. B. Beardon officiating. The body
is being accompanied to Barre by Mr. and;
Mrs. Meaker, who went to Brooklyn on
receipt of information of the snHJiu
death of the latter's siter. The tneagr
first report of the death which rcacheil
Barre were supplemented by the repoit
of the autopsy stating that death ws
due -to poisoning. Miss Richrdon hat
a great many friends in Barre, where h
ent her early life.
Action on the final acceptance of tha
contract for Barre 's new street dejiart
ment trink ha been deferred until tha
regular council meeting Tin-dy night,
hen. it is exited, the mayor and the
ihairmsn of thetr-et committee, act-
ins with the oity attorney, will have
completed a oraii 01 me moirumeni inm
i to 1 signed by the repreentatiTes
1' burial i t be in Green Mount cemetery
from outtde Montpelier
;ho alien led the eM i.-e were Mr. an I jot the company and the rouneil Aeer,i
Mr. I.. .1. K-'twrt and Mr. Eveline Ha- ling t- tentative arrangement, the pin.
eltine. all of Waterhury. D. P. IVatitt ,'mcipal car is to be ahtpped from fie fe-
of M"r. ton. Mr. Harriet T. Pike of j t-ry April 13 along ith a ear whi. K
I Pike. X. H . Alexander urbane of Well- ' Alex. !! te i p-m i ng for e in h a
Kiv.r and W i, Nje of North Montpel- itru.k ln-i,e. By May I. it i th.ig!
er. the la -t t hrtnj jtet"l of t'tfie tr will I tesdy l-' nfvKt us ta
Capital vir.(.- batk. p.rtaif r.t. t
