f
CIRCULATION IS
OVER 4000 DAILY
.
FULL LEASED
WIRE DISPATCHES
f 'J Js s(s f 5 fc jc
!1. shT
mils ' .k JsfiTjrm i v
A
THIRTY-EIGHTH YEAR
SALEM, OREGON, SATURDAY, MARCH 18, 1916
ttwt wxvn cwtg , ON TRAINS and new
PRICE TWO CEJNTb STANDS FIVE CENT
(fir f.rfwnmffir
ffMLft
VILU IS AROUSING iflRST AMERICAN
PEONS 10 FLOCK IT llll START
TO JOIN BANDITS VlE0N UPRISING
This Will Offset Any Aid
: Given by Carranza, Which
Is Half Hearted -
IS TALE TOLD GREASERS
Carranza Boasts He Has Won
Diplomatic Victory Afraid
of His People
III Paso, Texas, Mar. R Arrival o'i
a portion of Colonel DoilJ 's cavalry at
Dublan today removed imminent dan
ger of an attack on American Mormons
there by Villistns.
Dublan is south of C'asns Grandes.
which is already behind the advancing
lines of I'nited States troops.
The Tenth cavalry, a negro organiza
tion, which was reported the first Am
erican unit to enter Mexico from Haeh
its Thursday, is understod to compose
most of the Dublan relief force.
With Mormon scouts leading. Docld 's
men have been riding continuously for
liO hours. Spurred by reports of the
colonists being endangered, the troop
ers covered 100 miles over the difficult
roads of Chihuahua desert by forced
marches. The Column had the advant
age of Mormon -scouts knowing every
water hole, trail and road along the
Toute.
Its arrival at Dublan was admitted
by army men who unfit Colonel Dod.'
wore out his men and their horse rush
ing to save the Americans.
The remainder of Dodd 's command.
General Pershing's larger division from
Columbus and additional troops from
the border are expected to concentrate
in the Cnsns G ramies district for the
next stage of the manhunt.
Genernl Gnvira declared Villa was
120 miles south of Casas Grandes. ac
cording to his information. The Amer
ican cavalry, however, is apparently
steadily gaining on him.
Pershing's column was not. located at
noon, but it was understood to be
marching slowly near Ascencion. No
American troops had tjecn sighted at
Guzman, although, reports 'said some of
Pershing s men would be sent in that
direction
Army in Villa's District.
I'd I'aso, Texas, March PS. Kelout
lessly pursuing their quarry, crack
troops of the American army were well
along on Francisco Villa's trail today.
Guided by military aeroplanes, the
two columns were entering the heart
of a district filled with A ilia sympa
thizers. Hard fighting was not ex
pected, however, as the American."
greatly outnumber any outlaw bands
in the immediate vicinity.
Colonel Dodd's men were making
forced marches and were expected to
pass .lanos today. Janos is 100 miles
.south of llachita, N. M., from which
Dodd's command started into Mexico
early Thursday.
Genernl l'ershing's troops from Col
umbus were skirting Guzman, obeying
Provisional President Carranza s re
st to avoid cities and towns where j
iiuei
t i.t i.n,.n.i nf i
m hi It
l.rcak out anew at sight of American !
. .. "
Villa was variously reported l."0 and
id
200 miles farther south. He was be
lieved to be in the Cusihuiriac hia dis
trict fleeing into the Sierra MadreS;
(Continued on Page Seven.)
ABE MARTIN
"If I jest had til' cigarette conces
sion fcr th' F.uropean war I'd certainlv
go some," said Lafe Bud. t 'day, in
urc live muni a. i. Viuiu n.j- ,
.-iioe. .Miss Kinlie langvr nas been ap -
prna. hed t ' wait table at th' hotel, lr.;i
ibc has no bracelet.
MP
Opinion of Those In
Close Touch With Mex
ican Situation
CARRANZA WILL THUS
BE FORCED TO FIGHT US
American, Now Officer Under
Carranza, Says Villa Can't
Be Cauffht
By H. C. Boehme.
(I'nited Press Staff Correspondent.)
Douglas, Ariz., Mar. IS. The Ameri
can expedition into Mexico will t ice
tile crisis of its campaign in the first
possible skirmish, observers here be
lieved today.
If the predicted general icon upris
ing against the American forces comes,
it will be becau.so.of distorted news cir
culated among the peons.
Those in close touch with Mexican
affairs declared the supreme test of
grudging Cnrrmzista cooperation and
on the peon attitude would come when
the United States soldiers fire their
first volley.
The inarching columns are moving
faster than iias been reported, accord
ing to the prevailing impression here.
Settlers from HI Tigre heard that the
divisions had united between Guzman
and Asrencion. Jt was persistently re
ported th.it Francisco Villa had divided
his command, leaving a strong force
to battle the American vanguard and
draw it off his trail while he continued"
his flight in anotuer direction, escorted
by a few picked men.
While reports of Carrauzista friend
liness hnve been widely circulated, fric
tion between de facto government rep
resenfativs and American customs of
ficials is noticeable.
Mexican troops from Agua Prieta,
just across the border, have almost all
been withdrawn, having marched miles
south to patrol the Naiozari railroad.
A small garrison still holds Agua
I'rieta.
Constitutionalist officails today dis
credited reports of insubordination anl
mutiny .it Cubullona. '
"The Americans will not catch
'Pancho' Villa," declared Lieutenant
Colonel Campbell, Carranza command
ant, guarding the steep mountain pass
es between Ciiihuahiu and Sonora
states, here today.
"Villa knows every foot of northern
Mexico as a child knows its Alphabet, ' '
he declared. "Mountainous country
which wuuld be inaccessible to United
States troops and in which man never
set foot is an open book to Villa.
"No. lie will not be captured. But
fter the chase lias been drawn far
enough into the interior, he will again
swoop down on the border and attack
l::e United States."
Campbell arrived at Agua Prieta to
day to get supplies for bis men.
Yacht Driven Ashore
Carried Stuff for Villa
Galveston, Texas. Mar. 1s. A nswpr.
ing in almost every particular the de-
S('nll,ion of the yacht Kclipse, which
' """. . nn
'""' ' ail". a. vessel bearing
'he name Lo Provideneia" is aground
,i i,- ;. , . -"-xico, souin ot
.... ,.. ..iuuue ruer mouin.
I , 'yexicnn crew is Aboard. One of i
i nt- saiiors is Known to be a former Vil
la officer, it is reported that the r.
go consists of ammunition and rifles.
IThe boat was driven aground duriii" a
.-evere storm. "
Thi.
SHIPBUILDERS HA VE WALK
OUTUNION IRON WORKS
FACING GENERAL STRIKE
San Francisco, March' IS With i .i
str.l . n. n. i- i ... , orders of the executive committee of
strike at the l i.ion Iron Work, theat-, the building trades council Their
ened and a walkout at the Moore and grievance is that non union ship car
Scott shipyards in Oakland already ! peniers are employed,
started, the ship building industry on; In the action 'of tho Union Iron
the Paffic coast today faced omr of , Works men several demands aro made,
tile most serious situations in its rcceat !
historv.
At least four unions, representing
probably 1500 employes of the I'nion
Iron Works, held secret meetings yes-1
terday and sent strike votes to the in-1
ternntional organizations in the east,
it was learned today. j
They are prepared to walk out, it isj
said, upon the receipt of word from'
the eastern bodv.
Boilermakers, ship fitters, ship rivet-'
ers and ship builders are organizations
concerned, it was declared by one in 1
authority today. "j
Officials of the Vnion Iron Works :
refused to comment on the situation.
1 une declnred lie had not heard of it. threatens to develop into a coastwise
j In Oakland the carpenters at the; strike among shipbuilding plants was
I.M iOre and Scott yards walked out on'bcjjun here this morning when carpen
UNITED STATES TROOPS ALONG THE MEXICAN BOUNDARY USE -
FIELD TELEPHONE TO KEEP IN TOUCH WITH HEADQUARTERS !
f i " :":'' &?':.!::.:
V . - U ' . it -
f r 4iv 7t -; , v , ,
r ! : fl Mil ' xs
Troops along Mexican border using field telephone, keeping in touch with headquarters.
American troops along the Mexican border are keeping themselves in instant readiness for any eventuality.
fhe field telephone, which keeps them in constant touch with heaclauarters, is proving of invaluable assistance.
Market Is Stagnant
Prices a Trifle Off
New York, Mar. IS. The New York
Sun's financial review today says:
Characteristic week end conditions
prevailed at the opening. Traders were
disposed to en up contricts over Sun
day. As most of them operate for an
advance throughout the week, t'nc pro
cess of adjustment consisted of sell
ing. Prices developed a reactionary
tendency. Crucible Steel opened with
a sharp advance, but lost later on.
Mexican Petroleum behaved simihr
ly. Kailways were neglected, Union
Pacific not recording a single transac
tion during the first half hour.
liusiness was moderate, and condi
tions unchanged during the closing half
of the session. Activity was mani
fested miinly in industrial specialties,
with "rices irregular. Steel was quiet,
and slightly reactionary.
This was attributed to the uncertain
ty of conditions in Mexico, and to the
Verdun battle. Dealings were largely
professional. It was impossible to sav
whether Britain's intention to prohibit
the importation of so-called luxuries
like private automobiles, chinaware,
hardware and soap affected the mar
ket. Claire Vibbert, one of the well known
clerks of l.add & Bush bank, while joy
riding in his newly iic-quired Dodge citi
this morning, had' a bad rear-end col
lision with one of the bovines belonging
to the state. It seems tho cow after
taking the dust for several miles final
ly became impatient nnd tooted for the
right of wny. Mr. Vibbert did not give
way immediately so the cow in attempt
ing to get past badly damaged one rear
fender of the machine.
Bev. J, Montcalm Brown,
pastor of
the Jason Lee Memorial church
preach at the W. C. T. U. tomorrow aft
ernoon at 1 o'clock.
Fred YV. Schemer, of Bulteville, is a
Salem visitor todav
among them the following:
Working hours from 8 to 5; time and I
U IKlll JlOIll ll c- up cu iuiuuiui anuc
double time after midnight.
Double time for boiler work on I
aged, wrecked or generally decrepit
ships brought in, instead of time and
a half
Double time for work on holidavs.
With ship building activity booming
'.as probably never before, a strike
would be a serious blow as scores of
immense contracts aro being handled
everywhere,
Non Union Men the Cause,
"ak!and, Cal, March IS. What
t
No Fight In Mexican Soldiers
Unless They Are Filled
Up On Booze
By H. C, Boehme.
(United Press Staff Correspondent.)
Douglas, Ariz., Mar. IS. Douglas is
the best protected American c on
the border. Not because an army of
more than 5,000 I'nited States troopers
is "resting on its Arms" here, but be
cause the Mexican state of Sonora is
"dry."
Unless stimulated by strong drink,
the Mexican trooper ordinarily is not a
formidable soldier, army officers say,
and at the Cairanzista barracks at
Agua Prieta, across the line from Doug
las there is no canteen.
Blaine McCord Files
for County Prosecutor
Blaine McCord, of Woodhurn, fil
today as a candidate for nomination by
the republican party for the office of
district attorney for Marion county. Hie
statement is. "Conduct the affairs of
the office as economically as is consist
ant wilh enforcement of the law."
Slogan, "A republican from start to
finish."
fci. h. Kellv, of Med ford, is a eandi
date for nomination by the democratic j
party for the otticc of district attor-
ney for Jackson county. I
v. n. i.evens, ot nancr, is a ennui-
T Y . ni ii
umc jui iioni inn c ion iry uie iiemoc rax I'.
party for the office of district attorney
for Baker countv.
ters employed ill the shipyards of the j
Moore and Scott company walked out!
on orders of the executive committee
of the building trades council The;
grievance is that the ship carpenters
working in the yard are non-union men.
According to J. X. Stciner, business
agent of the council of carpenters, the
water front federation executive com
mittee and the officers of the iron
trades council will meet this afternoon
to determine their action He said it
was understood the allied workers
would follow suit of the carpenters.
Inasmuch as the building tijioii which
the men were working was the nevi
steel plant in preparation for the
700,000 steed vessel contracted for by
the Hind Kolph avigation company.
is declared a blow to the local
concern.
Steiner says it may involve the
1'nion Iron Works later on, which con
cern also employes non-union ship
enrpenterj. It will also involve all
allied union trades including steve
dores ami riggers, who may refuse to
handle vessels sent to either - Moore,
and Scott or the I'nion Iron Works.
nOME TALENT WILL
GO TO STAYTO'
Peg o' Vy Heart will he shown at
Stnyton I'ric!aj night. The Silverton
troupe will go to the neighboring city
by auto th:s I veiling. This play made
a hit in th s fity and will do the same
tiling in Ktayton. fcilvcrton Appeal.
Hal. D. Bolam and Wife
Go to North Yakima
Hal. V. Bolam, who until August last
was for many years a resident and lead
ing hapmun of our city, is in Salem
again for a few days, with Mrs. Bolam,
this time for the purpose of paying a
round of farewell visits to their ninnv
friends and acquaintances here.
The Wolf Hop company, with whom
Mr. Bolam is associated in Portland,
desiring to extend their operations in
the state of Washington, have appoint
ed Mr. Bolam manager for that ter
ritory and our former citizen will leave
Portland during the next week for
North Yakima, where ne will open f-
fices and locate
Both Mr. and Mrs. Bolum will be
missed by a wide circle of friends here.
Presiding as worshipful master nt
Pacific Lodge No. 50, A. V. and A. M.,
for probably the last time last even
ing, Brother Bolam made his farewell
address to the lodge. In reply nianv
beautiful references to Mr. Bolum 's Rcr -
vices to masonry and his bulge were j 'he bill as drawn makes the militia an
made in speeches by Bios. Treasurer I efficient force in wartime."
Lot L. Tearce, renlor Warden W. II ) Sec retary of War Baker, it is under
Dancy, Junior Warden I. A. Olson, i stood, agreed with Wilson.
Senior Deacon Geo. V. Porter, Felix H Senator ( hambei lain 'a bill provides
Davis, Geo. G. Brown and others, and! for a maximum regular army strength
by Worshipful Master ('has. Me('arterf 254,000, a federalized militia of
and Bro. W. C. Winslow of Salem lodge i 2SO,000 and a federal reserve force of
No. 4, to which Worshipful
Bolam feelingly replied.
Master
BOOKS ON GARDENING
Gardeners who know all about it and
those who are not so sure of themselves
ar? offered a list o'f books on the s
ipet nt the nnblic- lilirnrv. Miss Swcjcv
has received several new books on the
subject and with those already on hand,
),tts mudo a special shelf for those in-
. . - .
forested in spring gardening. The i
lowing list gives somo idea of the mi
jects discussed:
GOVERNMENT WANTS
PERMISSION TO USE
MEXICAN RAILROADS
Washington, Mar. 18. To expedite 1 carried by creeping wagons and motor
operations against Francisco Villa, Gen ; 'rucks through Oil miles of sand and
. . , , ,, snap weed. Mule drawn wagons can
eral I red l unston has asked Provision-1 af th(, only tllr,c u,, ttll
al President Carranza s permission to i hour. The nature of the country ham
use Mexican railroads in supplying thelpers automobiles. A direct line from
American columnis wiitli ammunition. Juarez to Casas Grandes is drawn by
Officials refused to comment on the re- tho Mexico Northwest railroad,
quest and refused to divulge whether i It is generally believed that the gov
the stato department would aid in get-1 eminent at least will informally ra
ting the desired permission. quest use of the tracks. Ol'lieltls nre
Although. Secretary Baker would not ! uncertain as to whether Cananza is in
comment on the report, it was learned a position to giant it.
on the highest authority the govern- Secretary of War Baker's reports la
ment will or has asked permission to dicato that all is quiet along the bor
use Mexican railways for military pur- der, with tile exception of some ex
poses. Funston asked the war depart-j eitement at Timpico. Apparently this
ment to obtain the necessary permis-1 disturbance is temporary, und without
sion. 'cause. Ho said no reports of the expe-
Should Cnrrana grant the Fiiited dition'a operation! were available for
States leave to use Mexican railroads publication,
for niilitiry purposes, the army would It was noted among linker's reports
solve one of its most difficult problems. I that fire had dc-troyed the Monterey
Food, amunition and water could be bith house and posiuffice. There was
transported by rail safely and quickly.
I iidcr present conditions they uiujt be;
CONGRESS SPLITS
OVER PLANS FOR
'S
E
Hay In Opening Debate On
His Bill Said President
Indorsed It
.MINORITY LEADER MANN
CALLS IT INSUFFICIENT
Senate Committee Reports
Chamberlain's Bili the
Two Differ Widely
By Bond P. Gddes,
(United Press Stafc Correspondent.)
Washington, March IS Congress re
ceived an inkling today of the fierce
and confused struggle' for prepared
ness. President Wilson's endorsement of
Hcpilesentn.tive lliv's bill increasing
the army was announced by Hay from
the. floor Hay asserted the measure
was practically the president's bill.
At tho same moment the senate mili
tary committee reported Senator Cham
berlain's' to the upper bodv in n ilif.
Uferent form, embodying a different
principle.
During the house debate Representa
tive Mann objected to the president's
plan suggesting minority opposition to
it.
"The bill falls short of what ought
to be provided at this time," declared
Mann. After having troops on tho
border for four years in contemplation
of what has now occurred, no troops
were ordered across the border until
the house! had passed a resolution in
creasing the army by 120,000 men
"There was never a more patient il
lustration of the fact thU whilo the in
crease now proposed Is sufficient for
! peace times, it is not sufficient even
tor a miniature war.
j tioll; an(J pxpMt'to ,.,e.lk Wlth somo au.
we are tae greatest neutral na-
thority. Who would pay any attention
to one of the small American republics.
Would Great Britain! Would Germany t
Wise to Prepare Now.
"This bill adds only 20,000 men. I
do not favor a large standing army
and compulsory military service.
"It would bo wiser and cheaper to
l'"l"r am, now tor iroume wnicn
may come, ir it doesn't come, we will
be getting off cheaply in both money
and blood."
When the house debate on the Hay
bill opened, May said:
"X am authorized by the president
to state that this bill has his approval.
It embodies the administration's ideas,
Ianl 8n(,s further The president thinks
201,000, This latter organization is
practically the same as Former Secre
tary of War Garrison's continental
iiriny, under a new nninr.
Chamberlain 's measure differs radi
cally from that of Hay, who opposes
the federal reserve and federal militia.
Chamberlain's insists on a federal re
serve, and subjects the national guard
to severe federal discipline and inspec
tion. The Camberlain bill enlists regulars
for six years But nt tho end of the
first, vear and of each thereafter a
(Continued on Page Ten.)
i no indication of revolutionary activity,
however,
Al
1REAS
CROWN PRINCE TO
RISK ALL ON ONE
Paris Reports German At
tacks Growing Weaker la
Verdun Battle
FRENCH PREPARED FOR
ANOTHER GREAT SMASH
iGerman Forces Making Last
Attack On Fort Veaux
Are Annihilated
A HINT OF PEACE
London, Mar. IS. Premier
Herbert Asquith will bo asked
next Thursday in the house of
commons whether he participat
ed in a conference of the pow
ers to discuss pence, the Kx
change Telegraph declared to
day. By Charles P. Stewart.
(United Tress staff correspondent.)
London, Mar. IS A marked slacken
ing in violenco o'f tho fighting around
Verdun convinced some military critics
today that the Germans were about to
abandon the offensive there.
Paris dispatches conveyed tho am
idea nnd hinted that a final German
defeat nt Verdun would bo immediate
ly followed by tlio grcntest French
..h nf tho war. Tho Paris messaee
Ssaid German attacks Incited their early
spirit, and that less artillery prepara
tion preceded them. The Teutons aro
not standing up to French counter at
tacks as they did when the battle wa
young, especially nt Douaumont and
around Vnux.
London critics, however, do not share
theso beliefs. They said the Germans
hnd gained positions of such chnractcr
thnt a withdrawal would certainly be
marked by terrible losses. The.; think
tho German crown prince will risk ali
on one more grand assault ngaiiHt Ver
dun before admitting defeat.
German Papors Silent
German newspnpeis. which prinled
lengthy stories about Vordun when ttm
fight began now devoto small space to
it. Ncutrnl publications have been
forced to rely on Paris accounts that
tho Germans had been heavily chc k-il.
Tho last German attack on Fort Dn
Vaux and the village of Vaux, said tho
Paris communique, began with a bom
bardment Tuesday. The shellie J con
tinued all day. At dawn, when the
sky was jiiRt brightening, tho first Ger
man infantry men crept from their
trenches and moved stealthily against
the French works.
"French searchlights nnd star shells
revealed a dark mass of men moving
against Vaux," said a Paris dispatch.
"We opened on them with a terrific
fire. Only a linml'lul reached our barb
ed wire entanglements. Twice during
the forenoon they charged again. Thea
they attacked Fort De Vaux. Compact
battalions tried to climb tho Bteep
Blopes. They crumpled under a merci
less French fire. On paper this may
sound like desperate fighting, but
Thursday's assaults lacked the force
which carried the olliers lino temporary
victories.' '
Tubnntia Was Torpedoed.
Washington, Mar. 18. A message
from the American .nnsul at Amster
dam, saying two officers and the look
out of the liner Tubnntia swore Bhe
was torpedoed, and that many passen
gers held the same view, tendered to
substantiate the claim that a submarine
sank the steamer, it was believed heer
today.
All Wero Saved.
Amsterdam. Mar. IS. Thorough in
vestigation has proved conclusively
that all were saved when tho liner Tu
bnntia sank, following a terrific ex
plosion ns she lay nt anchor, the Royal
Dutch Lloyd lino announced today.
(Continued on Page Te" V
THE WEATHER
Oregon: To
night and Sun
day partly
cloudy and occa
sionally threat
ening weather;
north oaaUrly
winds.
GRAND ASSAULT
JjffewD
