MAILS
From San Francisco
Wilhclmlna, Dec 19.
For San Francisco
Ventura, Dec 19.
From Vancouver
Niagara, Dec. 27.
Tor Vancouver
rMakura, Jan. C.
rrC?
Evening Bulletin, Est 182, No. CWi . V
Hawaiian Star. Vol. XXIV. No. 7701
18 PAGES HONOLULU, TERRITORY OF HAWAII, MONDAY, DECEMBER 1 8, ;916. 18 PAGES
PRICE F1VB CENTS
FMlffi;
U. i MB
VMLHUUfi!
3:3 '
Edition
-
NOBOJZAT
I
Pope Won't Mediate
For Peace Compact
ENGLAND IS PUT
OH "WAR DIH" TO
HELP OUT SUPPLY
Food Restrictions Cutting Down
, Courses Effective Today;
French Make Big Haul of
German Prisoners at Verdun;
Lloyd George to Speak To
morrow (AmUU4 Prt ijr F4erl Wirel )
ROME, Italy, Dec A statement
issued at the Vatican today says that
the Pops has no Intention of attempt
ing to mediate to bring a peace settler
ment now. . .,
BERLIN Germany, Dec. 18 An au
thority of the Overseas News Agency
estimates that the fosses of the
French army have been 3,700,000 and
the British army. 1,500,000.
LONDON, Eng., Dec. 18. In view of
the alarming shortage In food supplies
the British . government today took
drastic action In enforcing the "war
diet" on. the country.
.The food restrictions announced re
cently were put into full effect today.,
Hotels and restaurants were forbidden
to servo mors than two courses for
breakfast and luncheon and three for
dinner. .. '. . '
V ' PARIS, France, -Dec 1& r The
jrencn nave tax en ai,3 uermans ai
Verdun-la three .days.
A German, counter attack on the
: Meuse today resulted In the Germans
securing a footing: at : Chambrettes
' Farm. - '
BERLICGermany, Dec. 18. The
Russians today made an unsuccessful
attack northwest ct Lutsk. .
Llayd E::i'ce to
Jpi Tomorrow
(Auoriatrd Trtta by Ff'lcrU Wireless) .
LONDON, Eng., Dec. 18. Ambassa
dor Walter Hines Page today present
ed to Lord Robert Cecil, secretary of
state for the blockade, the peace notes
of Germany, Austria and Turkey.
Bonar Law announced In the house
of commons today that Premier Lloyd
George will speak on Tuesday. He is
expected to give a statement on the
Allies attitude toward the peace pro
posals of 4 he Central Powers.
News has reached' here that the
British steamer Westminster has been
sunk.. : ' " -'
rHiLADELPHIA, Pa., Dec. 18. In
dications at the close-of the morning
session of the American-Mexican joint
commission today were that Carranza
Is not disposed to close the .door
against an agreement with the Ameri
can conferees which will meet the
demands the 'Americans feel are ne
cessary. .
Commissioner PanI, returning from
a visit. to Queretaro, where he saw
Carranza, reported on the results o!
L visit, but nothing would be said
for publication concerning this.
Ills understooa that Carranza has
not signed the suggested protocol, but
this is not necessarily taken as an in
dication that it will not be ratified
later.
Cuba Crop
R!lftmpper
NEW YORK. N. Y., Dec 18. The
Federal Sugar Refining Company has
received news that the new uom
encar rrnn fa 3 3f.fi 000 tons, a new
record.
uaiiii iu luuui
BUT CREW SAVED
NEW YORK, N. Y Dec IS. The
crew of the Brazilian bark Nethtis.
12 men, have been rescued, but the
bark itself was lost off the Jersey
coast, according to latest Information.
NEW YORK STOCK
MARKET TODAY j
: : :
Following are the closing prices of
stocks on the New York market to
day, sent by the Associated Press over
the Federal Wireless:
. Satur
Today, day.
Alaska Gold ............ 2, 12
American 8melter 107s 1084
American Sugar Rfg. ... 112 115
t American Tel. & Tel. ... 125 125
Anaconda Copper ....... i 87 87'2
Atchison 104 104?g
Baldwin Loco. ......... 68 69'i
Baltimore e Ohio ...... 852 85
I Bethlehem Steel ....... ..... 560 '
j Calif. Petroleum ........ 25 23
Canadian Pacific ....... 167 166 .
C. M. A SL P. (St. Paul) 94 93"2
Colo. Fuel 4 Iron ...... 46 47a
Crucible Steel . . . . . . ... . . 67 68
Erie Common .......... 36 37J2
General Electric ....... 1712 1722
General Motors ........ J..... t.....
Great Northern Pfd. ... 117 117 ;
Inter. Harv N. J, ..... 123J2 121
Kennecott Copper ..... 47'2 482
Lehigh R. R. 80J2 '' Bty2
New York Central 105 1064
Pennsylvania .......... 56', 56
Ray Consol. 27 28'
Southern Pacific 7...... 98'2 98'2
Studebaker 112'2 115
Texas .... ... . . .. ..... . 203'2 199'2
union Kacmc .......... i !
U. S. Steel ....113 114s
U. S. Steel Pfd. ........ 119 119
Utah ...... ............ 105 108
Western Union ........ 101'2 101
Westlnghouse 55" 65J4
Bid. tEx-dlvldend. t Unquoted. .
GKD IUHY OF
era :.::,v tke
- ' " , - r ' ' S " :
- Z . '
Representative Elect's Con
duct of Road Affairs Good
- But Beyond Authority
(SpeeUl Star-Bulletin Corretpo&dence) .
IIILO, Dec. 15. County Attorney W,
H. 'Beers has practically decided to
put the Norman K, Lyman matter up
to the grand Jury next month. The
county attorney has been working
hard on the matter and he has been
supplied with a mass of figures that
show how and when the appropriation
for certain work and material , has
been overrun by Lyman., The bulk
of the money appears to have gone In
machinery for road work, a concrete
mixer and layer, together with a rock
crushing plant, wnich form the prin
cipal items.
It is admitted that the apparatus Is
necessary and that it is of good value
to the county. v It is al3o admitted
that there will be no financial short'
age at the end of the year on account
of the purchases of machinery made
by Lyman. , In fact, at the present
moment there remains only the sum of
$1153.80 overdrawn for the fourth
quarter of the year, although, of
course, there may be other bills to
come In. ; " :
The county attorney has called upon
the auditor to supply the figures for
the various claims and also for the
name of the official who approved of
the claims from January 1 last to
November 30. Then the county at
torney will proceed to arrange his
case to present to the grand jury.
It is shown by the figures supplied
by Auditor Spencer so far that at the
end of some quarters of this year Ly
man's account was in credit, but at
other times it was on the debit side.
It Is certain, say some people, that at
the end of the fiscal year everything
will be all right and the county will
have a credit balance.
So great is the belief of most peo
ple that Norman Lyman has done
more for good roads in and around
Hilo than any other man, that there
Is already a scheme on foot to have
him, when he returns from the legis
lature, made road overseer for the
whole county. It Is claimed that it
he were placed In such a position he
would save the county money and con
struct roads that would last for many
years. .
In the meantime County Attorney
Beers has issued orders that no more
claims against the South Hilo road
account be paid by the auditor.
' a -
ARMY AND NAVY TRADE i
PEARL HARBOR LANDS
News from Washington that . the
army and navy have arranged a trans
fer of land at Pearl Harbor, whereby
the navy secures a portion of Puuloa
in exchange for a strip of Ford island
was confirmed today by Lieut-Col. R.
R. Raymond of the army engineers "to
day. It is understood that the land ac-
K.. , V m maw w III Vt itsA1 fn, .'
small arms practise, while that at Ford
island will go into the military reser
vation. The eschan3e w-as consum
mated at Washington.
HAWAII TO HAVE
FIRST SQUADM
OF ARMY FLYERS
Brig.-Gen. Treat Informed of
Plans By Signal Corps
at Washington
Hawaii, the key to the Pacific, is
to Teceive the first squadron of the
aviation corps to be organized under
the new defense act, according o a
statement today by Brig.-Gen. Charles
G. Treat, commanding the 1st Brigade
at Schofield Barracks.
Officers at Hawaiian department
headquarters state that this will mean
the placing here of 20 officers and
129 men. It is believed that the men
and machines will be here by March
1, though Gen. Treat stated today that
he had no Information In that regard.
. "I cannot say whether it will be one
month or six. months," said the com
mander, "but Washington is working
hard to make It as soon as possible.
Col George O. Squier, in the signal
office at the war department, told me
that the first squadron to be organiz
ed will come to Hawaii.
The squadron will be placed at Fort
Kanfehameha. There will be a total
of 24 machines, according to those in
close touch with the situation, and
these machines will probably be con
vertible for land or water use. They
will come here knocked down, to be
put together again on arrival.
SOGAR SHIPPING
STORY IS DENIED
Characterizing as "all bosh" the
story from San Francisco that the
American-Hawaiian Steamship Com
pany has assigned to the Matson Nav
igation Company its contract for trans
portation of Hawaiian raw sugar ship
ments to the coast for 1917, -officials
ot-JiujUe.&Joofce, the local Matson
line agency, said today the American
Hawaiian has arranged with the Mat
son line for the latter to carry its su
gar foreastern shipment, . to San
Francisco for this month and January
only and that the arrangement goes
no further than to ; the end of Jan
uary... v :V. '
Between 23,000 and 30,000 tons of
raw sugaT will be carried, from the Isl
ands to San Francisco this and next
month, by Matson boats. At the pre
vailing rate, $3.25 a ton, the profit to
the Matson Navigation Company
would hardly be , the ' millions" esti
mated in coast reports, including a
news story in the San Francisco Call
of December 1. - . ."
The local Matson agency also de
clared baseless the report that Capt
Matson is trying to charter the Hill
liner Minnesota to handle the sugar
tonnage. The Minnesota can carry
30,000 tons of sugar, but laden with
that amount would draw so much wa
ter that sh could riot navigate safe
ly in this harbor, Kahulul or Hilo, as
she draws 36 feet when laden deeply.
Minnesota Too Big
Captain W. C. Curtisacting harbor
master, said today the Minnesota
could not be loaded to capacity at the
sugar wharves here. The depth of
water alongside the sugar piers 18,
19 and 20 ranges from 26 to 30 feet
It would thus be a physical impossi
bility to load the Minnesota at any
pier In the harbor, because even at
Pier 7 the depth Is only 32 to 36 feet
The Minnesota is 620 feet long and
62 feet beam, so that even were the
water deep enough here working and
handling her would be extremely dif
ficult as Honolulu piers, are not de
signed to berth go huge craft
Definite announcement on the American-Hawaiian's
plans for 1917 hand
ling of Hawaiian sugar will be made
Friday, when General Agent C. P.
Morse of the line's Honolulu office ar
rives on the Hill liner Great Northern.
Manager John H. Drew of Castle &
Cooke's shipping department is also
expected to return on the Wilhelmina
tomorrow afternoon.
OLD CITY OF REFUGE
WILL BE PRESERVED
BY BISHOP MUSEUM
Hale O Keawe or the City of Refuge
wjll be preserved. The Bishop Estate
has turned this property over to the
Bishop Museum, and the monument
of ancient Hawaiian days will be re
paired and preserved.
The property Includes several acres
of land at the beach of Honaunau, and
included in this property are stone
vaults and caves of refuge. This
place is one of the noted points for
tourists on Hawaii. It has been sug
gested that an auto road be built from
Napoopoo to Honaunau.
BANK OF HAWAII OPENS
.BRANCH AT WAIPAHU
To reach the center of Oahu's sugar
industry the Bank of Hawaii has
established a branch office at Wai
pahu. The doors of the new institu
tion opened last Saturday undercharge
of A. Anderson, cashier,: and the
amount of business which came in the
first day shows that the new location
was well selected, bank officials say.
Late
News
PARIS. France,' Dec 18. The French admiralty today issued a state
ment that it is not true' that a battleship of the Patrie class has been dam
aged, and says that the loss of the Maghelan.has already been reported.
SMOOT PROHIBITION MEASURE BEATEN
WASHINGTON, 1). C, Dec. 18. A substitute bfll offered by Senator
Reed Smoct of Utah for the Shepparj bill calling for prohibition in the
District of Columbia was rejected by the senate today. It would prevent
the Importation of liquor for personal use.
FRENCH ADMIRALTY DENIES BIG DISASTERS .
AMSTERDAM, Netherlands. Dec IS. A French battleship of the La
Patrie class (H.C3.1 tons) has been torpedoed and badly damaged in the
Mediterranean sea by a German submarine, says a Berlin official statement.
It adds that "an armed French transport, the Maghelan," with 1000 troops
aboard, has been torpedoed also.
BARG7 OPPENHEIM ORDERED DEPORTED
NEW YORK, N. Y., Dec. 18. Baron R. E. Oppenheim. credited" with
being a scion' of a wealthy Europea banking family,' and who was de
tained at Ellis island on arrival here yesterday, was ordered deported by
an immigration boaTd today. He appealed to the Immigration authorities
to change the ruling. It is said that lie is wanted on a charge involving
a financial deal in France. '
HILO DELUGED BY RAfN HEAVY AS CLOUDBURST
v (Star-BnlMin by Mutual Wirel) '
HILO, T. H., Dec. 18. Hilo and the surrounding country were deluged
today by the heaviest rain In years. The downfall was so sudden and re
markably heavy that it resembled a cluodburst 'The low-lying part of the
town was almost immediately flooded and much damage was done over the
country and on the roads. Wailuku R Iver is running in a flood from bank
Jo bank.' . ;.:-; x ".;
SIGN CONTRACT FOR MnOLE DITCH VVORK
John fj. PIcanco, Frank Gomes and Jose Picanco under the firm name
of rcanco & Gomes today signed the contract awarded at a recent meet
ing of the Oahu loan fund commission for constructing ditches and tunnel
to divert the waters of Maole stream, Hillebrand glen, Into Nuuanu res
ervoir N04 4V C. K. A! of the City Mill Company Ig bondsman for the
NINETEEN BIDDERS FOR HEALTH BOARD SUPPLIES
Nineteen separate firms were bidders today when bids were opened
at noon In the poard of health office for supplies in that department to.be
delivered during the coming six months. The bidders were as follo'ws:
F. L. Waldron Ltd Metropolitan Meat Market City . Mill Company, iee
Chu, Allen & Robinson, E. O. Hall & Son, . Chun Hoon, C. Y. Hop Wo,
.Love's- Bakery, Union Feed Company, Hawaiian Electric Company, Henry
R. Meyer, Ho Pol Kee, California Feed Company, Honolulu Dairymen's
Association, Hackfeld & Company, Standard Oil Company, Ai ay & Com
pany and Daviea & Company. Clerks. are iabulating the bids this , after
noon to 8ubmItTto the health, board on Thursday.
HEJVY RAIN AT WAI
Castle & Cooke shortly before 3
phone message that since 11 this morning 3 inches of rain had fallen at
VVaialua. From Ewa' the same agency-was advised that no rain had fallen
SMILES AS IIEflRS
DEATH SENTENCE
Yee Yo Keuk, Korean bandit con
vlcted of the murder of Chee Won
Yer, a fellow-countryman, today was
sentenced to death by Circuit Judge
Ashford.. He will be hanged unless the
governor sees fit to commute the sen
tence to life imprisonment
In a long harangue to - the court
Keuk declared that on March 2 of
last year Detective Capt McDuffie and
Sergt. Kellett had gone . to the prison
and planned to kill him during the
night . He also declared that both the
witnesses and the evidence in the
trial were false. He farther asserted
that an attempt, was made to kill him
by driving a nail into his head.
"It is the .sentence of the court that
you suffer the penalty of death," said
Judge Ashford after cutting the de
fendant off in his recital of what he
alleged happened at the prison.
' Yee Yo Keuk smiled.
. Six Hawaiian companies will leave
Honolulu early In the year to play a
season's engagement on the Amalga
mated Chautauqua circuit" -'ln- a let
ter to Ernest Kaai, the manager of
the combined Circuit has signed con
tracts with 30 local musicians for next
year. . ' '
Following out the statement made
by J. Walter Doyle and other main
landers that Italians negroes and
musicians or other nationalities have
poeed as Hawaiians, comes the an
nouncement that the combined Chau
tauqua circuits of America have re
fused to employ any other musicians
but real Hawaiians. The local musi
cians will leave Honolulu early in the
year, when the booking agent of the
combined circuits arrives here.
Before leaving Hawaii Ernest Kaai
has arranged to give a public program
in the Hawaiian Opera House to show
the local people the class of program
that will be shown on the circuit
Kaai states that the Hawaiian music
as played here will not be changed,
in any respect. This adds one new
link to the promotion of real Hawaiian
music on the mainland.
SUGAR GOES LOWER
4 V
V: : ,': " ' n
4- Sugar continues to drop. Ad-
vices received today by H. S. P. 4
A. show prices declined to 5.14.
SAN FRANCISCO, Cal., Dec.
4- 18. Supar: 96 degrees tesV 4
4 5.14c. Previous quotation, 5.27c. 4
4. 4
4 4 4 4 4 4.4 44 4 4 4 4 4 4
SIX COMPANIES
FORMAINLAND
At A
Glance
ALU A, NONE AT EWA
o'clock this afternoon received a tele
LADOR SHORTAGE
FELT III IIAl'JAII
Hawaii's high wages paid outdur
ing the past year and particularly in
the bonuses closing the sugar season
are having a marked effect on the la
bor market The labor shortage is
felt on virtually all the Islands and
on some plantations it is no joke.
Probably a thousand plantation la
borers could be provided with employ
ment today. Filipinos and Japanese
in large numbers, having achieved
what Is to them a prosperity they
never experienced before, are going
home. Many others have temporarily
ceased working and are either having
a glorious celebration or are taking
a vacation in the city for a while;
after, which they will return to the
plantations.
The situation In brief Is that with
the grinding season opening up many
plantations are short of . labor with
the prospect that the shortage will
continue for some months to come.
However, as the bonus system will be
In effect next year, many of the Fili
pinos will return. In fact it is ex
pected that they will bring more Fili
pinos with them, for Hawaii is very at
tractive to Filipino labor and those
who go home for a visit are, with
their comparative wealth, walking ad
vertisements for the islands. ..
SPEMliE
With the exception of one man, a
;ury was secured in Circuit Judge
Ashford's court today io try the case
of M. Fujimoto alias Waichl Fujimo
to, charged with , the murder of H.
Emoto, who was a chauffeur in the
employ of J. B. Castle.
The twelfth juryman was chal
lenged by the prosecution after the
defense had pronounced the panel sat
isfactory. A special venire of six men
was issued returnable at 9 o'clock to
morrow morning, at which time it is
expected the trial will be begun. The
special venire consists of Joaquin Sil
va, John Hiram, Temple J. R. Rourke,
Sam Nuuanu, Christian Gertz and L.
L., La Pierre.
Emoto and his wife were-found in
their douse at the Castle place at
Walklki, he killed and she frightfully
wounded by a knife or some other
sham instrument The wife recovered
after weeks In a local hospital. The
law firm of Andrews & PIttraan is
representing the defense.
DR. PRATT GOES TO'MAUl
Dr. J. S B. Pratt, president of the
board of health, will leave for Maui
tcnight to take up matters concern
ing his office. Dr. Pratt will join
Dr. L. L. Patterson and M. B. Bairos,
health officials, who are now on an
inspection trip. He will return
Thursday. .
IN MURDER CASE
GEN. SCOTT SAYS VOLUIITEER SYSTEM
HAS D
ROllEtl DOWH; ASKS HUGE ARI.1Y
Senate Military Committee Hears That New Conditions Have
Brought Demand for 1,500,000 Fully Trained Men Should
War Come Ex-Secretary Waiter Fisher Leads the Fight
Against Compulsory. Service
WASHINGTON, D. C Dec 18. Before the senate military committee
late today Maj.-Gen. Leonard Wood, former chief cf staff, declared that
nothing could be more pronounced than the complete inefficiency of the
recent militia mobilization on the Mexican border. He urged intensive mili
tary training as the only means by which the United States could procure
the needed adequate, defense, and referred to the militia to emphasize his
recommendations. '
"It was the most terrific and complete failure of a plan ever at
tempted," he said. : I
President Wilson told callers today that he does not agree that the
guardsmen failed in the border mobilization.
SAN ANTONIO, Tex., Dec. 18.
designated today to return home.
WASHINGTON, D. C Dec. 18. Universal and compulsory military
service for the United States was proposed today before the senate mili
tary: committee by Maj.-Gen. Hugh L. Scott, chief of staff of the U. S. army.
. Advocates for the compulsory training as welj as vigorous opponents
of it were heard before ihe committee, w hich is headed by Senator George
E. Chamberlain of Oregon. The disc ussion was on the need of a plan to
replace the present volunteer system and the plan of a comparatively small
standing army and reserves.
Gen. Scott epoae in detail of the
experience of the general staff in
dealing with military problems. He
said that the staff considers that the
volunteer system has wholly broken
down and is inefficient and useless.
He urged that lit be discarded for a
universal system of training and service.-.
During his talk he disclosed 'some
of the material that the war college
has gathered on the subject. He
showed that the staff believes that
instead of 500,000 available men which
it has considered sufficient as a start
to defend the country against inva
sion, Uncle Sam should have 1,500,
000 men fully trained at the beginning
of a war and a like number with such
experience that they could be put in
the field in 90 day.-
At:OTIEIll'JOI,Atl
GETS 6 MOUTHS
Arrested at 1 o'clock Sunday morn
ing with a colored soldier in a room
at Vineyard and Liliha streets,-Mary
Davis, one of the 114 Iwilei women
recently given suspended sentences,
was sentenced by Circuit Judge Ash
ford today to servo six months in the
city jail.
"1 would have - your sisters take
warning," said the Judge. "It Is true
that the other woman. Rosie Wilson,
was pardoned by the governor, but
that was on special consideration and
she has left the city."
.; Speaking of the "attack" on the
Court because the Wilson woman got
six months and her paramour was al
lowed to go free, Judge Ashford de
fined it as "but an error due to lack
of knowledge of judicial" procedure."
I do not think," he added, "that it
tends to better the administration of
justice to have the situation so false
ly hlsrepresented as has happened
on two or three occasions." He then
explained that, while the alleged hus
band of the Wilson woman was in
court, there was no charge against the
man.
' "I was going to 'Frisco oo the 26th,"
said the Davis woman after being sen
tenced. "For the present you will go to
jail" asserted Judge Ashford.
The city attorney's office intends to
prefer a charge against the soldier.
COALING RESTRICTIONS
NO HARM TO HONOLULU
Honolulu's stsamer bunkering trade
will not be hit to any extent by the
British restrictions announced Sunday
forbidding the delivery of fuel at
British coaling ports to any vessels
except to British steamers or those
of allied nations.- The restrictions
mean that exportation of Australian
coal to Hawaii and San Francisco will
practically be stopped.
According to officials of the Inter
Island today, very little coal .comes
here from Australia at present, or has
come in the. last year. The big ma
jority of bunker coal sold by the Inter
Island here to all vessels calling for
bunkers, regardless of nationality, is
brought from Japan in Japanese
steamers. Hardly any coal cargoes
have come here from the Australian
fields in the last 12 months, so the
order will not hit this port much.
GUAM GOVERNOR WANTS
HONOLULU CITY LAWS
A request for a copy of Honolulu's
municipal ordinances has been re
ceived by Mayor John Lane from Gov
ernor Roy C. Smith of Guam. He
asked particularly for those relating
to fire, police, public health and traffic
regulations. He did not state the rea
son for the request 1 V
A new carpet is being laid today in
the chambers of Circuit Judge James
L Coke. Two new typewriters and a
water filter have been added to the
court equipment, as well as a hand
some table for the judge.
Sixteen
thousand guardsmen were
The change in the war college and
general staff theories, it is revealed,
is caused by British organization in
Canada and the British alliance with
Japan. ' . :
Walter L. Fisher, the well-known
Chicago attorney and secretary of the
interior in the Taft cabinet appeared
before the committee to represent or
ganizations opposed to the compulsory
service plan. He suggested that the
objects of the war department may be
attained in providing for a first-line .
defense by doubling army pay and by
civic training to fit men in civil life
for compulsory service. As rapidly
as they are trained, he suggested,
they should be discharged Into a citi
zen reserve, liable for duty In time of
war. -. i "- :' Z-; -u- ' ' ,
iiussu is :
Russia wants its subjects back in
the czar's domain. Workers and till
ers of the soil are needed. The gov
ernment will pay transportation. ;
Russian subjects in Honolulu, who
have felt the call of their native land
now have an opportunity to go back
with transportation paid. Informa
tion to that effect has just been re
ceived by Dr. Augustus Marques, con
sul for France and Panama and vice
consul for Russia in this territory.
About six months ago the Russian
government granted the petition of
about 70 Russians here who wanted to
go home, and paid all their expenses.
Another petition wa3 Immediately sent
by more Russians here who were not
Included in the first exodus, and the
order now in Marques' hands is an an
swer to that second petition.
Detective and Russian Interpreter
Rudolph Stein, who Is assisting the
consul, says, however, that some of
the petitioners have changed their
minds and are not quite so anxious to
leave the Paradise of the Pacific, es
pecially in mid-winter with the ter
rific war in full swing.
In regard to this Marques said to
day that several families had already
signified their intention of. going home
and that others had better speak soon
else all right to free passage will be'
forfeited. The Russian government Is
encourasing Its subjects to return to
settle and till the land, says Marques.
SEVEN WEEKS CAMPAIGN
ON BONDS IS PLAN
OF HARRY MURRAY
Now that the special election for
water and sewer bonds Is assured by
the action of the supervisors, Harry
Murray, superintendent of the water
department, has started work on his
annual report As this will keep him
busy until the first of the year he will
not have much time for the bonds.
After the first of January, however,
he says that he will start an active
campaign for the bond issue and to
educate the voters In order that when
they vote on February 21 they will
have a clear idea of the i3sue.
Sixteen Cuban
Centrals Grind
Alexander & Baldwin from its
4- New York house this morning -4-
received the following week-end
sugar market cable letter:
v "New York, N. Y- Dec 16.
Sale3 for the week were 3000
tons of full duty, 50,000 bags Cu-
bas and 10,000 bags Porto Rices. 4-
"Cubas and Porto Ricos are of-
fered at 4.27 and full duty at
5.02. Buyers are not interested.
"New crop Cubas is offered
; for January .15, February and
March 5.02. Sixteen centrals are
grinding."
tttttTTTfTftt
