tFINANClAL'EDITlOlSr
' NIGHT
EXTRA.
VOL. IN. NO. 82
sS3STRA
taienm
NIGHT
EXTRA
&
t.
iMtbatt
PAGE DELIVERS
PEACE NOTE TO
GREATBRITAIN
Lord Cecil Receives Pro-
in Absence of
A. J. Balfour
posal
PHILADELPHIA, MONDAY, DECEMBER 18, 1916
Cortmonr, 101s, it titircnua l.rrwct Courtst.
SEASON'S FIRST SKATING STARTED IN THE PARKS
BEJECTION NOW CERTAIN
Interest Intense on Eve of Pre
mier's Reply to
Germany
LONDON, Dec. 18.
England' answer to Germany
1 peace proposals will be delivered by
Premier Lloyd George in Parliament
tomorrow. Official announcement to
tthU effect was made in the Hou.io nf
Commons this nfternoon by Chancellor
A.' Donar 'Law. It is probable that the
Premier will go Into the history of the
war and events leading up to it and
especially into the case of Belgium.
The German peaco nolo is now under
"consideration by the Foreign Office.
LONDON. Dec. is.
United States Ambassador Pago delivered
the peace proposal of tho cintrnl Kmptres
(0 the British Foreign Ofuce today. In tho
silence of Foreign Secretary A. J. Ilnlfour.
te American Ambassador presented the
Oirmxn ptsee nolo to Lord Robert Cecil,
Under Secretary. -The presentation took
plica this morning.
When rremlcr Lloyd George nddresses
Parliament tomorrow and outlines the pol
icy' of his Government, lie. will And tho
pulse of the British people beating In unl-
' sjp with that of the War Council.
'f Interest la Intense iero today In the re
ply the Premier will make to Ilethmann-
i'- Holtweg's peaco proposal and hit discus-
r !on. of the food prfblcm nnd the question
of man power.
. The temper of tho British people toward
puce was Indicated when a huge mob yes-
ttrdsy attacked Sylvia I'ankhurst as a
"pacifist." With a group of her sym
pathisers Miss Pankhurst attempted 10 hold
a "demonstration" at the East India dock
jrjtis to demand peace. An angry mob
quickly gathered, and rushed Mian I'ank-
bant and her party from their fet. Police
' latertersneo put an end to the demonstra-
tltfi, but a Jeering crowd followed the
iremsn to police headquarters, where the
balanced Ills mind, although he gave 110
rtloaww.ia.he!dtindec.baJt'forxamlnlrtdlcai:on ot',Ws t0 members ' "? '"'
tloo by a magistrate.
It is generally expected Lloyd Qeorge will
PtiTO'A brief and comprehensive review of
'thi war In his Parliament speech, and will
i'eutllne what has' been accomplished under
i-1h)e old. regime and what he expects to ac
complish through the War Council.
Comment on the Incidents which led to
if the' recent governmental upheaval and
placed Lloyd Georgia at tho head of the
Cabinet Is not expected.
It has now become certain that sooner
than leave Germany In her present position,
with ability to consummate her "mlttel
Europa" (Central Europe) Idea, and also to
threaten India, Britain will fight to the last
fc smb. tinder present conditions there can
w no thought of peace.
Tee peace' arrangements now being pro.
posed by the German newspapers, Includ
ing tha suggestion to hold a conference at
Too Hague In January while the fighting
continues, simply infuriate tho public here.
Indefinably, but obviously, tho general
attitude In Great Britain townrd the Ger
man peace proposals has hardened
enormously In the last twenty-four hours.
The average man. certain of tha benefits of
puce, and somewhat carried away by the
opr at first, now seems to have made up
wj mind definitely. Leaving out of .
Mention the .opinions of the officials and
tas governing classes, who are determined
to carry on the war to the uttermost end,
His sentiment of the general type of Bog
fciaaan seems to hava found itself,
i. -Z to M3r ,nat except for the
most extreme pactficts. there Is no Idea of
FC At Ulfl nrSn mnmnnfr rrUm. 11.11-1.
j; pabllo has wade up its mind to fight qn
FIREMAN, SUICIDE
UPON WIFE'S TOMB
Lieut. Steinhauer Shoots
Himself in Mount Moriah
Cemetery
GRIEVED SINCE MAY, 1914
Devoted Husband Placed Wrentli
Upon Grave Each Sunday
Since Separation
Tho body of Lieutenant Egbert W. Stein
hauer. of Engine Company N"o 31. Sixth
nnd Locust streets, was found stretched
across the grave of his wlfo In Mount
Moriah Cemetery cnily today. A revolver
lying close hy told the story of his suicide.
Lieutenant Steinhauer was one of the
best-known members of the flro depart
ment, being familiarly known to his fel
low firemen as "Bert." For the last .two
years ho had been an Instructor at the
Firemen's School, Seventh street above
Norris. ,
Grief over the death of his wife, which
occurred In 1911, Is believed to havo tin-
CeBtlaesd on Paw Fifteen, Column rur
BIAS. SARA WATRISS SUES
CLUBMAN FOR DIVORCE
Plaintiff Daughter of Philadelphia Eye
specialist and Leader in Long
Island Set
Jir'MnlS? ha" baen entered by Mrs.
KLTbo?lm Watrlsj. sister-in-law of the
a!5L . ? Thom Wanamaker,
lrfv-JV'r.,?c N- Wrlss. well known
m .m 7f cIub "nd BOClal circles. Action
1 & V"9 .wt,,,on " lt Saturday,
X- 4? couW not bo learned..
hTwhm Wm U th8 d"8htor of the lata
MM Wiw Tborafon- ophthalmologist, of
riar. 7, ilut A,rMt "owlng her mar-eLi!J,.i-
N,w rtk society man, she
SJ - H "nvely at their country
Sr5L S JUnr UUML Sha Wft "nown.
n,S?i!r '' Archibald a. Thomion. ,
blrd, iIL80?. received a charge of
trhrS?.,n.hta.riht y wbll unning,
th!"!j Mr W-Wm n MOT. Tha nam?
wa .-fP!I,0n.'wh0M gun discharged
wa1hiwiVri0.?nca,lt- Mrs. Thomjn
JM th wife of th late Thomas B. Wani-
or his friends In tho fire department.
Ha was known to have visited the ceme
tery every Sunday since his wife's death.
Employes of the cemetery camo to know of
this devotion to the memory of his wife.
lie often remained by tho grave for hours.
Ha never permitted any ona to touch the
mound save himself.
GRAVE DICOEnS' FIND
Grave diggers came upon his body short
ly after 7 o'clock, whllo they were making
their way toward another part of tho
cemetery to open a grave.
Stelnhauer's head lay close to the tomb
stone which bore this Inscription, "Kate I).
Steinhauer, died May 1. 1911. Ily Wife.'"
Part of his body was stretched across two
large wreaths of moss, which he had
brought to the cemetery. Ho had evidently
placed the revolver In his mouth and fired,
tho bullet taking an upward course, com
ing out at the back of the head.
Steinhauer Is believed to have remained
In the cemetery all night. He was last
seen alive clearing the snow from the
mound, preparing to place the wreaths on
Concourse and Hunting Park Lnkes wcro opened to skntcra today and
devotees of tho sport lost no timo in scckinjr ono or tho other.
"SUFFRAGE FOR THE DEAD7' '
PROPOSED BY FRENCHMAN
Maurice Barres, of the
Academy and Chamber of
Deputies, Stirs His Coun
trymen With a New Idea
in Government.
Suggests That Women Kin
of Slain Soldiers Shall
Vote as Proxy, Register
ing Views' Held by Men
Killed in War
Continued an Pate Ttirr. Column Two
FIERCE SNOWSTORM
MAY HIT CITY TONIGHT
Weather Forecaster Sees Har
bingers of Low Temperatures.
Fair for Tomorrow
TOE WEATHER
FORECAST
for Philadelphia and -vinlnlitt Kimh
r?al'V teavv, tonight and continued
i Tvetiau fair and colder- ,!,
nurtktrly wind.
Skating, Skiing, Sledding
on Sllpperg Surfaces
WEATHER predictions for today
are: Fair nnd continued cold,
Heavy snowstorm may reach Phil,
adejpnia tonight.
Today's winter sports:
Skiing in Falrmount Park.
Skating on Hunting Park and
Concourse Lakes.
Skating at the Merlon Golf Club
and on many smaller lakes in the
suburbs.
Sleighing and sledding in Fair
mount Park and in the suburbs.
Hourly temperatures since mid
night; Midnight .... 27 Sa. m , 24
1 a. m . . - " " "
2 a. m 20 lOu. m 26
3 a. m...
24 11 a. m , 27
4 a. m on
Ss.ni 22 lp.ni 28
6 a. m 22 2 p. m 27
7 a. m 23 3 p. m 27
.. m. ENOTU OK DAY
IS! !. ... T:IT an. 1 M.on rt,,
j.Azir 17 -"-.
y.iu.
iaU.'
11 -!T m
ilooa aautlu. 6:31 .tu!
WWAg HIVim TIUB CHANCES
eiUaStXlJ? 8TBEBT
fiLiii iiM- tfr" wstes.. StfT sum.
TEifnautmB m kacu mm
it infrOTTrsomi
i
A severe snowstorm, as neavy ir nor.
heavUr than that of last Friday, way
reach Philadelphia, late today or tonight-
according to the local weainer nureau.
Effects of the coming storm wars notice
able a few minutes after iuon, when the
mercury began to, drop slightly, and tha
Ihermomster will probably ga as low as
twenty degrees tonight, fair and mwh
idr weather U predicted for tomorrow.
Tody?howevr. tha first of tb. Xuletlda
vreek 1 Ideal or ChrUtmas sJiopplng and
for PbUadeiphlans-who eojoy skating, sled-
dtog, aven "Un n4 otUw """' wrt
-Tk prophets y dy l
4-hrtirtiaaa tKPPi o"0 flv testa
5W wye PMtoWipMa.
! adbisZrwCtfwiaJBs
By HENRI BAZIN
frrrlal Corrtipondtnct firtntno Ltdatr
PAItlS, Nov. no.
In the midst of war France has evolved
new Idea for government. It has been
fittingly called "Suffrage for the Dead."
Maurice Unrres, a member of the Academy
and a man famous In French letters. Is
the originator.
M. Darren Is not only a litterateur, but A
statesman as uell. He Is a representa
tive for Paris In tho Chamber of Deputies
and president of the French Patriotic
League. Ho has tho further distinction of
having caused the creation of the "Croix
do Cluerre," the only military decoration
In France that ran bo awarded to a sol.
dltr or oitlcer for bravery and courage
cited In tha order of tha day by army,
corps or division commander.
Ita received me this morning In the
study of his home. 100 Iloulevanl Maillot,
Neulllv. lust outside I'arls, and In the In-
tervlew which ha so graciously acoordeif
ha explained In detail his plsn of "Suffrage
for tha Dead," He said:
"I am fostering a new Idea that I hope
to sea realised as I saw the Croix da
Ouerre realized. It is suffrage for our
uniformed dead. It only sounds surprising
because It Is 4e nouveati and less under,
standsble at first expression than the crea.
Hon of decoration forvbravary. Let me
explain U Justice and the true reasons for
Ita worthiness In being incorporated amtng
tha laws of France.
I.J3T DKAD HBItQBS SPKAK -
"Hundreds of thousands of youthful,
vigorous, brave, patriotic men hava 'freely
given their lives that Franco might live
Why should their supreme offering at tha
altar of their country's right deny these
nobis dead a voice In the affairs and re
organisation of that country after Prus
aianlsm has been finally defeated! Why
aheuld not thtM brave citliehs of our Ile
publie, even dead, still defend their Ideas
and Interests through the ballot' There Is
neither logical nor legal reason that can
tie offered in objection to these questions.
"I would simply transfer automatically
tha right of suffrags from the dead soldier
to his living wife, or mother, or sister,
durtns a term Of yearn that might be cal
culated an the balance of life expectation
due him who la defending Franca against
tbe iavader h4 watr4 French, sou with
at Wefcteed.
tws mtmy vir coosm womia was
ajy misA'm q I sea Wf tto vlsws.
BMBW'irsyTf-T fTMMt'iirr'MMI
EjUi . . - . . J
MAURICE UARRES
French publicist who urges suffrage
for the women of Franco that they
mny ropresent their men who have
died on tho battlefield.
FOLICEMAN ACCUSED
OF STEALING FUR COAT
"Arrested After Producing Gar
ment Hidden Vndor His
Uniform
. Through tha perseverance of CI sorgo
Cloverdale. nigra chauffeur. Pol!scman
illlwood Walker, of the Front and "West
rnpraland streets station, wrs arrested fpr
jhe alleged theft of a valuable fur coat
hel'gnglng to Mrs, Percy Clark, of Cyn
wy4, . Jler husband is an attorney with
offices at 331 Chestnut street.
While Mr. and Mrs. Clark were attend
ing a performance In the Metropolitan
Opera House on the night of December l:,
according to the chauffeur, the policeman
entered the Clark auto.
U asked him what he ias ilolpg Uisre,"
said Ctpverdale at a hearing before Magis
trate Beaton at City Hall this afterooonj
"and he said he was just keeping warm.
Then I asked bun wbat had become of
Mrs. Clark's coat. He said he hadn't seen
it I told the policeman I would have to
hold him to clear myself, but he paid no
attention to me and walked up and down
n front of the opera house. I imps after
him, and finally lis openvd his coat and
showed me the eoat of Mrs. Clark under
neath. Then ha returned the coat-"
Qteverdale reported the theft to the po
lice, and Walker was ordered off the street
and arrested. He had nothing to my at the
beayrteg,' Walter was held in 1809 bai for
court.
Tl PAUotwaa's mfimrt eame as a big
aretiM tj the OWWMA It, hi ajd w
rsotl was KcnerlaM msO. lis was o-
-CvaMs.mi sa rge-ytny-VlBtgt-saf i-'tWJ -'i-trcliuiii aprt. Sf5'jSi-f.
y
QUICK NEWS
P. R. T. EARNINGS GOOD
Tho Philadelphia lUtpld Transit Company issued Us November
earnings statement this nttcrnoon. It showed rrross earnings for tho
month of $3,301,030, against $2,130,740 in the corresponding month
last year. Net, ?l,010.5a7, compared with JpS-l-t.-lBS.
GERMAN PLANES SHELL RUSSIAN PORT
IIBULIK, Dec. 18. Ocrmnn naval aeroplanes on Sntuvday bom
tattled the llusaian forces hi Port Sullnn, nn official nntiottneeinent
Bald this afternoon. One enemy hydropln'ne was brnr-ht cjwn by
nmchlnc-Run (Ire.
SPANISH STRIKE CALLED AS LIVING COST PROTEST
MADRID, Dec. 18. Labor orjjnnlintlona have called n twenty
four hour strike thraurjhout Spain for tomorrow ns a protest ngalnat
the rlslnn; cost of living. '
PRICE ONE CENT
MEXICANREPLY
TOPACTHEARD
BYBOARDHERE
Cairanza's Answer on
Protocol Eead to Joint
Commission ,
NO CITY FUND NEEDED FOR GUARDSMEN'S FAMILIES
No appropriation by Councils will lo necessary In provldo relief for families
of guardsmen at tho bonier. Chairman lletscll, of tho councllmnnlo committee, nn
nnunceil today that J3000 remained of tho original J10.000 nproprlntlon. Ho said
the money would be expanded In time for Christina1. )
GERMAN SECURITIES SEIZED IN LONDON
LONDON. Doc. IS. Tho 1'rlw Court today confiscated, under thn reprisals
order. Clormnii svcuritlva valued at .10.000 marks (about HHC), which were .seized
on route to Oip Htatc Commcrclnl .Savlnvt Itnnk of Chicago.
BALDWIN'S GET FRENCH ORDER FOR 100 LOCOMOTIVES
Tito Ilnldwlii I.ocomotlvo Works 1ms recclvrd nn order for 100 Inrso freight
locomotives from Paris. Lyons mul Mt-dlti'irancan Hallway, ono of tho largest rail
ways in Krancc. Tho locomotives nr to ho ilcllvcrcil In tho summer of noxt year.
It Is flRiircd, unolllclally. Hint tho company In tho last few weeks baa placed fully
$11,000,000 new orders for locomotives on Its books,
U. S. TRADE BOARD TAKES UP PAPER SHORTAGE PROBLEM
WASHINGTON, Dec. IS. The Federal Tnulo Commission wont Into oxecutlvo
session today with nows print mamifacturcra ami ennsumrrn to plan sending a
iiucatlonaim to nil largo publishers, asking whether they would rclcnso five per cent
on their contract on iinpcr stock to relievo tho shortage. It was nl.io planned to
seek from tho smaller publishers ilellnlte figures on their needs.
WILL "PUT TEETH" IN CORRUPT PRACTICES ACT
WASHINGTON. Dec. 1. Tho Senate Prlvlterirs and Klcctlons Commltteo this
ufternoon nppolnteil Hanalors Walsh, of '.Montana: Heed, of Mtssourl.'nnd Kenyon,
of Iowa, as u subcommittee tu redraft' tho corrupt prnctlces hill with Instructions
to "put teeth In the measure'1 nnd report on January 3.
BRITISH SHIP OFF SANDY HOOK WARNS OF U-BOAT
,- NRW "yoiHCt Dee. 18.- Another wsrnliiR to Allied' vessels to bowaro of n Ger
man rnlder was flashed today from a Hrlttsh cruiser nomovvhoro off Sandy Hook.
Tho new wnrnlnc contained no reference to tho supposed rnldcr'tf location or
Identity.
VILLA SENDS ENVOY,
BUT HE IS BARRED
Session Secret, but Rumored
That Negotiations Will
Be Futilo
MAY ADJOURN SHORTLY
First Chief's Attitude Said to
Make Agreement Irapos- -
siblo Now
TAILORS' STRIKE MAY BE SETTLED AT CONFERENCE
NEW YOIUv, Dec. IS. Steps to ncttIo the strike of Knrnient workers in Now
York, Newnrk anil other nearby cities wero taken today. A conference between
union officials nnd mom Hum fifty employers, who havo expressed ilealrci for peaco
talk, was arranged for lato this afternoon Announcement wns mailo hero tndny by
Sidney Hlllmnn. president of tho clotlilnc workers, that n larso Tlaltlmoro firm hnd
signed with tho union, Jloro t liun 1SO0O strikers braved tho snow nnd biting cold
today to do picket duly out.ihjo tho pinnts whero strikes nro In proRrcss.
SIX DIE IN HOTEL FIRE IN CHEYENNE, WYO.
CHKYKNNH, Wyo., Dec. IS. Six person nro known to lm dead ns n result
of tho fire that destroyed tho Interouenn Hotel hero Inst nlRht. From tho ruins of
tho structure today wcro taken tho liodlo.i of Mrs. It. A. AVIilte, of Hayles, Cal.,,iind
threo of her small chlltlrcn. Tho boijy of nnolhcr chllil Sllll Is undor tho nmoldurlne
wreckage Hoy White, tho liuslmnd nnd father, leaped from tho, third slory nnd
wns electrocuted.
WILSONS PLAY GOLF ON WEDDING ANNIVERSARY
WASHINGTON, Dec. 18. President nnil .Mis. Wilson celebrated their first
wcddlnc anniversary today. They went out for nn iarly round of coif in npu
of belowfrcezlnit weather. Tho remainder of the day wus spent much as usual,
tho President conferring tlnriiiK tho 'iftornoon with Senators and Hepreseiitntlves.
There wl)l bo a family dinner lit tho White House tonight, after which tho President
and Mrs, Wilson will euterlaln nt tho theatre. On December 118 the President will
celebrate his sixtieth birthday anniversary. Ho has made no plans for tho day.
CIGARETTE SALES AT GROVE CITY DISCONTINUED
MUUCKIt. Pa., Dec. IS, Tobacco dealers in Grovo City. Mercer County, dis
continued tho salo of all brands of cigarettes today. ' Complaint that many boys
weru smoking clrnKettes led to this action.
. WILSON TO FREE CONVICTS AS CHRISTMAS GIFTS
WASHINGTON, Dec. 18. President Wilson It planning to Rive several Federal
convicts pardons or commute their sentences ns Christmas Klfts, it was learned nt
tho Department of Justlco today. Tho applications for executive clemency are on
tho IVesldent'a dwk, and It is expected thai ho will pass upon them this week.
BIG.BOOST PLANNED FOR BANK DISCOUNT RATES
WASHINGTON, Dec. 18. Hank illneoiint ratwi nro to rise gradually nnd bo
maintained at a much hslier mark than durlnjr the last two years, according to
members of the Federal Jteservo Hoard. This will mean that buslnsss men must
either hold notes given them until they mature or else permit banks discounting
the notes to hava a more liberal share than heretofore. The economic effect of
the coming chanfe-a. board members say, will ba to put the reserve banks In more
liquid condition, as the higher discount rate will bring out shorter term com
mcrclal paper.
GERARD DECLINES COMMENT 'ON PEACE PROPOSAL
"ClUlISTIANrA. Dec. 18. "I'm certainly very interested," was all United States
Ambassador Gerard, en routo back to tils post at Jlsrlin, would say today when
newspapermen sought to uestlon him on the German peace proposals. Gerard
arrived on tne &can3inavian-vmencsn liner rreoonH yill
AUTOTRUCK UPSETS, INJURING EIGHT WORKERS
FOTT8VIM.E, Pa., Deo. is. Hht man amployod by Centraetor Clrena
Measersohmldt, who were returning home from wwk lute yWturday, were Injured
near NewScrwn when th? motortruck In whteb tby wore rtdfng skhlded m the Its
apd snow, throwing them out. Joseph Sterner arid KH Wright nro In (ha Potts
Villa Hospital.
CAMDEN EVANGELIST WILL RECEIVE 10,000
Approximately flO.OOQ will be ro?elvd by the Itav. Ur. MllforU H. Uyon tor
his eisbtjwecks' evangelistic campaign, which clcoil in t!amden last night. Nearly
j (000 vr? raised In tha three last tabwnacle rvkMi and many contributions havo
been tent through the mall. The count will bo made today.
CHEAP CHRISTMAS TURKEYS SEEN BY DEALER
SOUDBUTOWN, I'm., Dee. 18. Jacofc 8. loyer, f FmneoMta,' who offsrs
1(9$ Chrtstmaa turlcy at public sale heru today, 4y !! vUl b-j tww ttew
tlwe pW ?P Ttes'ielHiHr WiA. H r4W Uat tfrwa ChrMwj turkss wtil
bdSsT ftatWrtetvB ta-lMrtsibt.awil pauna toe iXh3tlbQi.
Grnernl CarrnniA's reply to the Mexican
American protocol recently framed nt At
Inntlo City was presented today to the rep
resentatives bn the Mexican-American Joint
Commission nt the Uellevue-Stralford.
Whnt tha First Chlof thinks of tha pro
posed agreement bstwecn the two countries
has not been revealed, Tho nature of his
reply, which wns born orally by Senor Al'
berto J, Panl, president of the Nations;
itnllwnys of Mexico, Is guarded by the
hoard. Strictest privacy marks tho work of:
the International commission.
Immediately after delivering the ms
sago from Cnrranxn, Senor Panl and ths
other members of the Mexican section ot
tho commission withdrew at noon, leaving
the American members to discuss the reply.
The Joint session, presided ovsr by Frank
lin IC lJne, Secretary of tho Interior, re
sumed Its sitting this afternoon.
ltUMOn OF SPLIT '
Although no Information as to, tha nature
of tho First Chltf's reply was allowed to
leak through the closed doors of Iloom 404
whero tho conference was held, there was
a persistent rumor that Carranxa's reply
was of such a nature that an Immediate
agreement could not be effected, , Senor
Pnnl required two hours .for delivering: the
message and explaining It to the American
members of the commission, after wbjch.
tho American members' wire behind closed
doors for another hour and a half.
Should no agreement, bo reached today, -
It wns said, tho joint commission might
disband, after conferences extending over
several months. Tho protocol, drawn un
at Atlantlo City, wan borne to Quorciaro,
Mexico, by Senor Panl, for approval by'
General Cnrranra.
VILLA 1SNVOV IIAintBD
Before, tho session' was opened by Sea
rotary Lane, this morning, J. J, Hawes,ot
Kan Antonio, T!x., presented himself as
representing Francisco Villa. He came
from New York' this morning, he said, to
guard the bandit chieftain's Interests In
tho deliberations of the commission. He
was not presont when the session began.
The members of the commission were
greeted at the hotel at 10 o'clock this
morning by Dr. I.. S, Howe, of tha Uni
versity ot Pennsylvania, secretary of the
American section. Shortly before the -
session . opened It wan pointed out that
while there wns a Mexican ting on dlsplar
In front of the hotel, no American 'Haf
wns visible. An American Hag was un
furled In n few minutes by I It Meyer,
secretary to Secretary Lane.
Doctor Howe, before the session today,
expressed an optimistic view of the outcome.
"Wo nro to come out of Mexico Just bs
soon ns wo can. decently and in order,"
said Secretary Lane, when the document
wan sent to Mexico, "and because we have
other uso for our troops which are there.
Hut this Is only tho beginning of a policy
which will make a Mexico that we can live
with."
Secretary Lane Is of the opinion thatT
border troubles are only symptoms, arui
says that Mexico needs system treatment;
not symptom treatment. He say's Mexico '
can glvu It to .herself nnd that the Unlt4
States, according to the protocol, will re.
serve the right to treat Invading bandits.
as they should be treated.
VILLA SEIZES PARRAh
ON WAY TO TORREON
HI. PASO, Tex., Dc 18 Villa has recap
tured Parral In his advance on Terreon, ac
cording to reports received here today, JQfQt'
eral Herrera, whom Villa promised to 1:111, -:
left Parral, with bla command befara-tlvtr,;,,.,.--Vllllstas
arrived. Villus agents hens He- '
clare ho will be holding Torreon, SanJ, '
Hoealla, Jlmlnes, Parral nnd Chlhualiu -City
by January 1, vnd will drive the Cart,
raiulatas northward on Juarex.
A split in the ranks ot the CarransJitas
and Villa's promise again to attack the city
pn uur.stni.iB uay liuv cud a panto in
Chihuahua City. Iletugees reaching U-.a
border today reported that General MurgitU
was in no position to defend the city against
a seoond't attack. Hundreds, of civilian
are attempting to luvs the capital, t(i-
said, but the military has oootmaruleereft.
virtually alt trains. .
Intimating that First Thief t'arrawsw
would Institute an investigation into tb.'
eoaduet of flswrai Mrg.ui for al tfUttu.. -to
come to the relief of Chlhuahu TCJW
until after Villa had captured the city tffbf
weeks ago. General Trevrao left tow jj
night en route to Mex,ico City to eaufw
wlili Carraasa.
General Trevlno dented lua sAion la wtms .
uaUng the rtty had ben erttleixed ithwL "
Mexican Ad4niatratiim. II s MrttMfr
ainmunltlon and liiiw for tte mttf ttfjiim, " 's
eoivbttauts caused his abaadsumMt wl. t
ir!lim capital.
Autu'iUnR tt Trevlmj's tauenesia, MB
guta id ix &wm at S.,m ttuanii ,.
bmfcBA CU h ls immat imm &
I
k. "7,s-. J-
