ONE CENT
In Greater New York,
Jersey City and Newark.
I l-il.ewlier
I TWO CKNTfl.
NEW YORK, MONDAY, DECEMBER 18, 1916. Copyright, 116, pi the Sun Pr7,ilf,it. mid fubllnhlng Aisoclatlon.
. VOL. LXXXIV. NO. 109.
CONGRESS MAY
I
So Says Adamson, Author
of Kight Horn Bill, in
Warning.
PL'flhlC BKIXd vHIOUGED"
BoihN mill I'liinns Urged to
(id Together and Quit
Controversy.
T'.'AKittsimjjf. IJcc. 17. The "Ulg 1
Fcir" brotherhoods and the lallroad
maiiatcrs must hapten their negotiations
to nu curly settlement or Congress will ,
tttpilvc them of their opportunity of pan, i
Ins President Wllson'si rnlltoad pto-1
(Minnie ini'l thus dictate the policies (
that will govern the toads ar.d their cm
plovers This wan the threat made to-1
r.U.ii hy W. ( Annmsoti, father of the
flaM hour Inw, when ho served notice
th.ii Congress will spank both sides to
th controvetsy If necessary."
Furlhriniorc, t, accept the opinion of
Judge Adainson, there to no prospect that
the Democratic Consress will tepeal the
bmsuic It so strenuously defended In '
the receM. campaign.
"The limine might agree to the modi
9catle.ii of the eight hour law by amend
rr.ri;l nutl.orizlng the. Interstate Com- J
mcice Commission to suspend it under i
retain condition.'- or to IK wages and
ssLules," said .Iud?e Ad3mson, "but It
.I,., i. ti, . .
prolir.l.Ie ll will repeal the measure ,
: ii"i
nncim'r me ranroaiii nn.i nroinernoous '
as'ee upon such n co'.iko or not. Then,
ten, I .aiirot (.e.- how the litigation over
the (pi.-Miii of tin- constitutionality of
the l.i' can be abnndoned at this time.
In 1.1 Ii- liilrreatsi Oterlookcd.
i
The tiuth of th. matter H that the In Sine Kins Inve voluntarily shortened ?on jMe) nm vice-president of the Hist possibilities of course cannot be pre
public uiseicst steni.w have lieen over- their llvts by three or four d-)s In or- ' National Hank. (dieted.
tTe ?xr ; Xn em:
p'.o;ie are p.-rfeotly :i,lng to permit
the mi i die to K soused If thev secure
irc.r m.rn. n wage, and the railroad
miii.ig r are jiisi h.h w;:rn; lo pay t ie
Inc '..re If t ,-onies out or the pocket of
the pi,',:!. If the furtlna to this eon-
trove . d'. not lln.l some .ay of settling
th.lr d ffti, ,ices mid of keep I113 the tall-
rja.N liop-ratlon Congress wl.l do It
tui ill, in t Itiii iMfn ....I .......ii. ...v.. l-.
III f' me nimrteis this Inst comment Is select,
c.ei.tel n. a veiled throat of (lov.rn- It has been uual for vanleti to have
merit control. Th'a was one factor that the exe-utloiis te In the week. o'i
rvpil :s C-u driving fcrcc to bring the, efher Kildiy or S.-ituiday, and It l
Big Four briitheihcwds and the railroad probable thN win Warden Mojer' I'l
oinratort to plans for a com:iromle of tentlon. but the tns ,ent for ruber
thdr ir.Hrrel Hoth sides fear Uncle Cashln and a.ked him to unc hl Intlu
Sim ni.iy take over the roads. Their cn e to hav e tiie eNecut!o i held e lily,
rr.ktmil dreul of this outiTine to the "If f nrr killed on I'rld.'y or Situ -fHluiMil'iig
has nulled them, at eat tern- day our bodies lll ge! bom? 'bn'it
nnrnl. .ignlnl what they reginl an a Chlls'nias Day." Miey lo'd him. "Till'
cmii'i'-m evil. It wo- explained by a ' wf.uld ruin that day foi our pmeit.,
pri .pint railioad nian, ' nnr b:o:her ar.d '.sleri. If nc are ..so-
cu'ed on Tiiefdiy. by ''bl.iy we will
i.rr-fii. .miiirair. ..riT.
W ver the brotherhoods and the .
L.V "C,." UJ0'J" intl
Vo J ?UBB r' ,T.e.ni
ow irr mil operation has been urged
u,':7;T:X,X
In t ikiiimd It attained stentorian
Fr ,i ri oiw Just ptcvloiLs to th. enact
nt ' if Mir Ad unvi'i cli'M four law,
Vin, i'.K Hi- mill. ,lo not want tn
" hr ill- 'r ir.ipeity to the Cov.rn-
r No ,. th,. trj'mn:! melons to'
! t,ie United Stiitc as their em-
l, v r IteJi, to th. . onr'anl warfare
will the pie.eut nMii.i5cra they would .
ra- cr nave ihem a employers'. than be
on 1 1- Fid.'tnl piyro'l.
.ImUe Adinnon'a il rlnr.itlon that lie
ll' intiod-t'e hi own bill after the
he iil.i) if the Senile thows no Iticlluu
' i' t tten netinii is the first Indlci-
t n t v the Administration' leaders i
In , r Ilntl... rir. rf.lH hi- Imrtnfl.nt
O't lela.v '
Warning tn llmploj r, .
us a virtual warning j
inployee, tint they j
" I i'lprcli'd
to ihi irii'l'iiad em
iiv ' - at an agreement scon If
I ' " to li-.l off the enactment of
Hiii.-i' .orv Investigation law. At the
f. n" ii .. w,i linlmatcd to-day that
ff i n ht nc made In the House
.' lie question of limiting thv
f ur railroad ofllclnN.
N I i information has been rc-
1 i.i W.i.in'ngtoii to the effect that
Ir n-l m.tnageia are giving serl-
., tent, in tu the proposed plan of
sen lenient
u s e .pi.Miets mere is a wen ue-1
ii'i ' shki-biiuii oi
pio'in.M ro.nes from the brotherhoods
ii- a il that It Is fathered hy the hope
thu tho proposed conipiilsoiy Invcstlga
t:ni, law. which woulil be In effect com
puter, .irbltratlon, may not be passed.
llrolliertiooiU Are Aiislona.
T lere is no question of the anxlely of
1 ' tr t eihuoiln In IliU respect. The
p i .1 - iiiti ranres of brotherhood ofllclals
.i culheieut evidence, but there are no
.1 hi i.ns that tl'.o railioad managers,
"It msli they npe.,r to bo keeping
oif I he Congressional situation.
.icircd or even hIuiwii the slightest
''" ' Bro. to the abandonment
n' ' ie ei.ht hour law as
l.OTi.lttl.lltlftll
i uuil'eiisuimn
f- i iin.inilotmient of the remainder
.' ie I'tesldent'N programme, even If
h pi. in were acceptable to the Presl
win) .ippcars us the custudlari of
the pin 'l Intcicst.
i ill; Mori lon, secretary of the
leiniin l'edeiatlon of Labor, said t6.
r.lclit that pioposils for negotiations
. il.mg to a compromise have been made
h; repieseutHtlves of the brotherhoods
baved on mutual concessions.
He said, however, thnt the proposition
"n.talned the stipulation that the Adam
son law s not to be disturbed. The
brothtrhoods are seeking; a compromise
w.lh tho managers with respect to the
'' ins of the Adamson law, according to
Morilsnn,
The American Federation of Labor,
however, has never Indorsed the Adam
k.ii law- On the contrary, at its con
vention two years ago II went on record
n gainst llxing wages hy legislative en
nrtment. At Hit last convention It ap
pointed a committee to consider this
whole subject and report to the next
convention.
Warnlna; of Raider Plash )al
Another warning to shipping of the
Ihiientn Allies to lie on guard against a
Geiinau raider on this side of tha At
Undo win, sent out last night by a
Urltlah cruiser off Bandy Hook. Tha
Ireleea was very largely a repetition of
the one flashed a waek ago, and con
isintd no near inroraMtMn M W
cnaracter or locaUoa t UM
IBUtT. .t '
( THOMAS COCHRAN.
wmmmmmmmmmmm
i-tniiiimr I
Prciident of the Liberty Nationtl
Bank, who on January i becomes a
. n rtfi r In T O Mnrnii A Pa
T K" -
"
HUD P V PY Pr.IITlHWQ .
HURRY EXECUTIONS
i 11 11 II II I I I ill II i I r II LI i
TO SAVEXMASWOE
m i . . i , . ., I
I VO ISoVS. Scekilltf to Mare
Kin. Ask to Die Tuesday
Instead of Friday.
Tn-,1 bovs .enl.nre.1 In ill. hl week
. ?. "n,nr"J to d 0 .. .
dr of nM of
,h'lr reliliv.j may dulled as much
na po:h by Cli-Ktni-is.
- v ' ' """" '
"" r.i.i.-i .. .iiKiu.ii . n. -,
ln I" Unn!o. aid SMnley J. MClstsln.
1?. ho killed pollremar, In tltlca. AP-',
Pal to the courls and for the clemency
of Oov. Whitman bavin failed, they
n.ie neru tiuiir.t, .n;t u. . ,.in,,..r- w...
' vr. wlu huu pul'cd
anien Mover ha. set the ,Wu,U.
for Tuesday, the date tho bovs cr,eJ.
prisoners taking to moyer.
,51111 Sit (Jolellj In Dnrkness
When l.lulil. I.u Hut.
Win!.,, Mijer f,rt Sunday ut Slog
Sing wrnt,orr qu'.t'y vvitn t.ie iihiiu ic-
llslous seivlws, band conceits und rest
Jliil leciv.t'l Jii for the prison Inmates.
An Inddent 1ow!iik that the p-lt
oners are witling to do their best under
, Warden Moyer ocrurted a night or two
ago. Fifteen bundled weie watching a
moving p'.ctuie sh.nv In the pihon mes.
I hall when the lights went out euddenly.
. There weie no .tuardr In the big room.
only tho league nu mber.) appointed by
111. le.lctl. to keen Olll'r
It was toriy-nvv minmes i.eiore ,ne
IIEIHS lure inn.,.. "11 h ........r.
I that time there vva not n sign of mi-
rullliess, A Mslting quartet h.i.ib i several
roiw o n ncs t tlw men. wh, sat
quietly In their places.
SOLDIER AID FUNDS NEEDED.
U, IIOII, III. O Approprlall,,., Itrporlrd
In Br Almost llxhnnstrtl.
WasiiimiT'IN, D-c. 17. It Is estimated
Rt t to War Department that the $2,n"0,-
000 appropriation which Congress made
for dependent lelatlves of enlisted men,,'r, f) , 0,i, i,ut only a few of them
of the inltltla nnd regular nrmy will be
rxiui,sted be.'ole Ih" end of the picscnt
i ,,,. , stens w III tie laxcn iinnicniuiciy
t ... connirss to movlde more funds.
Money mus-t ha obtained without delay
u continue Uie monthly payments to tin.
families of soldiers and a deficiency ap
nronrlntlon of $.',.000,000 will have to he
made to rover the remainder of the fiscal ,
year. Tho disbursements have been at
the rate of $7.1.000 a day.
WILSON SENDS $2,500 CHECK.
Doesn't Want to n Left Out of
Paring rnnipnlBii Losses.
r... .- f....,M... ..n
' 'iTi ioo , "i " "
aOI, II..S Kt-l.i ....v., .... . . " -
. tr.l i.t Ihn Deninei-atle National
mn .......... .... - ,. ..
r.nn.rr.it, i.u 1,1a oontr hut on toward
Committee as his contribution toward
meeting tho deficit In the committee's!
campaign fund.
The President In sending the iheck 'n
Treasurer Mais'.i motet
"I do not want to bo left out In the
work of .ay iut the deficit In tho cam
paign funds which you nnd your ns
elates are working so unselfishly to make
good. I therefore be-; mat you will let
me contribute nnd tako ,-ilcasuie In en
closing my check for $2,500,"
SCHOOLBOYS ARE CONSCRIPTED.
Prasalaa Provlnc of Hchlranrlac
Tkern la Hall-say Yards,
indon. Dec. 17.-A Iteuter despatch
from Copenhagen says that the Govern
mcnt of Hchleswlg. Prussia, has pro-
claimed civil conscription of schoolboys.
loading ot trucas.
3SO nifc Ilaatars Snonbonnd.
Bojiman, Mln.. Dec. 17. About 2-00
elk hunters, with fifty automobiles and a
Ilk number of sleighs and wagons, have
been stalled for seven days In the upper
West dallatln Canyon, alxty miles from
this city, by thirty Inches of snow on
tha Uvel, drifts and snowalldes. Slaty
huntera cam out of the canyon last
nlf-ht with alola-na and waona after a
r', i.''ii I'm i iii if, I .I''iiaiiiMaT'iiiVi'.itCri . .-...'M.v r;V l.v t.,.:.:.,-,..!..-. ....i;.,.. v.. ,, ..i .,,,, ,. i ui, ,. t, i ,.... .....I, . .a.. - i i. . u-. .v..- i ........ i
fc-
Morgan firm
mnnnv ninnil
nVVO dAVjLdIIv
1 Thomas Cochran, President
of Liberty National Bunk,
Twelfth Partner.
PENNILESS 1IKHK IN 11)00
Young I'inuueier. Now II, j
I Was One of Henry P. Davi
son's Many Proteges.
1. I Mnvo... x. ! .,,, ...! l-.t
' night that Thomas Cochran, president of
.the l.lhoriv V,iiln,,il imi.1i uniil.i i,.,,-
. . ... V. V, .
a partner of the Morgan Arm on January ,
1 next. Mr. Cochran will resign from
tho presidency of the Liberty bank at a 1
meeting of the hoard of dlro,a on
Thursday, when a new president, proha-
bly Harvey D. tllhon. now a vlecpreM
dent, will be selected.
Mr. Cochran otven his partnership In
the Morgan fl-m to haul work. He he-
Kn as a clerk In the financial district
and worked his way to the presidency
. i. , il .t...i...
.
" m he attraclcJ thf alientlon of
!' U"vUon' '"emb,r f the Mr;
gan nrm. jir. -ocnr.n i years oid.
and was bom In St. Paul. Minn., where
h!. parents had moted previously from
New York city.
Mr. Cochran camo to New York city
from Albany In January. 1H00. practl-
cany penniless. lie had wornen at ran-
,.,,. for six vears In St. Paul and
I Albiny since his gradintlon from Yale.
11 was during his third year at Yalo that
his father met with business reverses,
iind h was forced to work his way
throush. Ills drrt important position In
New York was tint of the treasurer of a
lea esiaie company. U was in mil ca- .
n.iclty that he first met Henry P. Davl-'
ie.il estate company. It was In this ca
It was Just about that time that Mr.
)ivlon was working out hl. plans for
organization of the Astor Trust com-1
He plcke 1 two young men to help
. .. . . . ...
l-any.
,i, e?.ecute these i.Uns. One was Mr,
. .. . ,. .i,r nl Pros.er
' r in ard 1 o other fjer. I Pros r.
' , 1 ot ,' ""'c " ny
' JJ ui, Mr nTv-Uon is chalr-
wan wl"' P,
was In March. 1907, Mr.
made vice-president.
Mr. Cochrnn held the vice-presidency
with such credit that In October. 1JH.
when a man was being soi-ght for the
presidency of the Liberty National Bank,
, e was offered the place.
Tho firm of J. P. Morgan & Co. now
ci,!il-!s uf .1 P Morgan. Henry P. Davl
iiii,. Dwlgh' W. Moirow, Charles Steele.
I M ward T Stoteshiiry. Arthur I". New
bold. Will am Plerson Hamilton, Will
.inn II. Pmter. Thomas W. l.amont,
IIo-.t.i'. (' l.tovd. IMward It. Stcttlnius
and Mr Codir.in. Mr. Morrow is ine
j ou Bei member and Mr. Cochran Is the
: tit.ini'.ht
Mr.'. o hi.,., has many Interests In the
business world. He Is a director or the
v.lr.. Triil f'oilUl.lllV. ITC 1 1.1 o K , TS
Turn, funinany. the Inlerborough It.ipld
Transit Company, tne inox uui ""'
piny, the Submarine Hoat company, the
K'.nnei ott Ciriiper Company, the Hraden
Copper Cimipaliv tne American , i.iii"
Compiny, the llecla Iron Works, the
United Dry Goods Company and the As.
jcta'.eil Mer hunts Company.
-
rnv XMAS GIFT HIS OLD HORSE
Itritllj Unn li lluy l.ouablln nt
tin,, nnd I'reaent It.
, ..,, ,, to be lively to-day
at the Hiic-lou of veteran police hor.es.
Two persons Mid last night .hat they
would bid any reasonable amount on
,......i.ii tnoMtv-nlnp-vcar-nld blue
ribbon winner, that was ridden on duty
. . ..,., ,, i,, iMtrolman
w.nrt-ll.
John
Wendell.
n tetlred ie.,1 e'ite
' ' , ',', vli
'"J , ,,,,..
i:. r
Ci ssm:in.
ift)-nith stieet.
llrst street po -
t r s'ritlon to inquire ai.oni i..ni.iiiin
mil fald ho want" I t" buy Loughlln as
a Chrlstmis present for Patrolman
MriC'll. '' Klhbe. head of th" Blde-a-Wi-e
Home, telephoned Tin: SUN late
last night that a representative of Hie
home would I." ill Uie s.lir. i. mi
i ,,,tiv:1iliii and nun of the nlhe veteran
nnrtill 1ioic. Twcnty-flv o police horses
, paildlo horses. The sale will take
,nrr ,u ,lf, st a bles of Flss, tioeir a-
;....n tr.r. Cist Twentj-iourin sircci
pSaCE ASSURED IN 90 DAYS
BY BANKER
Belief that within ninety days peace
wl), bc wfli on t,0 way was expressed
i.ist night by Leopold '.iinmcrmann.
i i , r ,i.A nrm of Zlmmermniin &
, ?-"... " im . ..etrsl as local rep-
J, CI. 911.13 ,
. i . , ;..r,-.i. rliuinelat
reseniauvea ui mi.v
' rl nl " '
institutions
He bases his belief on advices fiom
reliable commercial Institutions in Ger
many, Among rulers and diplomats in
llurope the end of the war Is regarded
.. i.. an.
us a reaii.aiion, nn .,.
i jjr, Zlmmet mann's Arm has been ac
tive In selling German nno Auairimi
bonds nnd time exchange. Proof that
he has financial stake on his belief
of an eaily pence may be found tn his
assertion that his firm has been selling
German and Austrian exchange at pres.
cnt prices, payable ninety days from
,i,n In Berlin or Vienna. Ho pointed
, out that tills Is the first time since the
' war began that time hlti. of excJiange
- 1 on Germany or au-iru, ..c
fered here.
I llrnkrr'a Statement.
( mernium & KorMl,ay wttla reference to
the t-alo or German and Austrian bonds
I l ll.......nlnn.n ull.r. ft urillll 11 VM lit.
Hill, ,IUI ,.,.. ....... .........
tltude on peace was announced recent
ly, have resulted In much speculation
among lima In this country and abroad
whose commercial Interests: are Immrdl
atf.lv denendent upon tho end of tho war.
"Leopold Zlmmertnenn, head ot the
firm and the personal representative In
thla country of Oerman governmental
flnanclal Institutions, waa aaked ta-day
vhetatr there waa) any aaeolal aOf-
'legacies give
m v tin AAA (((
ll.I.9l.UUUUUUI
Receipts for Five Months of.
Present Fisca Year
Present Fiscal Year
Near 1015 Total.
RIU ESTATES 1IKOKEN CP!
Comptroller Travis Experts
State's Ineoine May Ex
reed $10,000,000.
n r"irl,l- i.hm the treasury of New
Vorli Stale benefited from Inhciltaiiro
,ax collections since July I. the. begin-
nlng or the nsc.il year, tnui inc ion,, it-
t.c)p,H for nvc mont,s, more than 17.000..
000. approach the great sum collected
for enthe tlcal year or July i, i--.
l4-
tentlon to the great number of large
estates that have leen broken up or mat
nate pariru i urn u.iu .
owier m rereiu eiirs. ...
In the Comptroller's report win ap-
.r the following tax collections for this
pes r
fiscal year. 19K-19I7
! jiooo
""M
M0.IW0
HiirSi
ir.i.wv)
F,tite of Charles W Hirkneu.
Kuie of Ellen S. James
natate. ot Semour II. Knox
Kitale ot Jimea II. IllSiln
K.ulr ot lternian Kru.eh....
Eate ot Jacob lluppcrl
K.I ale of William A. Read
(Mate ot ll.len C. Jullllanl. .
Katale of K.lw.nl R. Ilaeon....
K.lsle of Marzaret S. Po.llej
Kitale ot Mrs. Prank Leslie.
K.tate ot Frederick II. Kalon...,
Kilatp of Darld II. Klnt.
13-
m;?u
;!;!)
c:.o)
v... T....1 ,,.r,.i for Mil..
.Near Total Ilecoril for iiu.t.
Tiiese large estates alone liave con-
ttluuted a total of $S.2.".5JI In Inherl-
ailce taxes, and when the figures are
made up for a considerable number of
mailer eatates and for n.few Urge es-
tales upon which a settlement of the
amounts due Is still In controversy, the
Comptroller estimates Jhat fully $10.-
"',. ... ......
there are seven months to come whose
000.000 mil have been received, ami
The tax on the estate or Mrs. .tiar)
ttarden iian.ness. wioow o, v.n..nes ".'were In the native tongue M. Aravan-
narann-, Y ... , i.... t-n,V
' '',ln'''",,,h,U , '
rtftA .,ii k. .nll.r'ilhin frotii iier snare oi .
Mr. Harkness's estate of nearly
000.000. She rcceved li:,lE1.6:9. but ,
more than 11.000.000 left to charity 1
one form or another Is not taxable. The .
minimum time for the payment of taxes ,
is six months after death, the maximum I
eighteen montha i
Two Slices I'rom On ..slate.
. , ,. ... . , . lhl,
.. ThS,t;,X J1C 'wo' h. ttk.n t., 1
t ,....S,.ote..cJ." h;, '"!J'?in I .
l" Sc. nulckeVs'aV lnhe7n.f """"J, Passed close to the
stance of tho Harkness fortune. "'-' "ruggied to '
Other years have eclipsed 19IG. K-pe-. f etilwl,,lln T- One man grapedhlm
dally profitable were 1912 and 1913. 1 by the coat collar and three or four others
wlileh saw the death of a large number rained blows In ills face.
of men of wealth and the breaking up I
or transfer of many large estntes. For I
191: tho State tecelved In Inheritance
taxes tl2,U3,l!S, and of this vast sum
New York county supplied $7,211,186.
Tho following year the total amount
of revenue collected by the Slate from
the Inheritance tax amounted to $12,-
G. In 1913 alone at least
jt.ooo.000,000 changed hands through 1
hp ,,,,,, of mn1. wcaUhy rfsldents.
liiehiiled In the list or estatea that were
subject to tax In 1913 were those of .
John Jaiob Astor. Anthony N. Ilradv.
J. Plerniint Morgan. George W. Van-
lileibllt, D. O. .Mills. Charles I". Appleby.10' (,rfk hand, clapped his baton on
1 Georgo WetlnghouHe, Itenjamln Altman, i tnuic rark and le.l his musicians in
L. 11. Severance, James It. Keene.
' George A. Hearn. Hdwln Hawley, Henry
M l.-i 1 .,., T..,. . n..., ... ti..
. list was unparalleled.
I J. Aator Kalnt Paid Blage.l Tnx
x lnr0M llh., ,,anM tax whlcn b
-,, ,wll, Mn,(, . wmP,II1Mll f ,
U(v W11H ,llilt of 13.150,000 , tho $S7.-!
non r.na nf rni tm.,. t,w..ii. A.,r,.
tj,,, lax on tlc ktMt,. 0f Anthony N,
u,..u ., s-r.t.nnn
' I!u, .1... .-nnl.ll.i.l .,1 I,...,..
, stiatr- Treasury In leienl years
t,0r. of John Jacob Astor. who
, Pf, JST.21K.7fi1 : Anthony .V. Ilrady,
$7.,."ii0,nuri. j. pirrpout Moig.m, $r
(inn.nno : George . Vnuilerbllt. $.".,.,.
ono.onn ; John P. Kennedy, $r,fino,oon j
Benjamin Altinan, $:in,oiio.ilfln . D. O.
MIIH. to.rioil.nnn IMwiu Hawley. $10.
PiiO.OOO, L. II Severance. Jl.'.ooo.nno ;
Charles H. Appleby, $.",n.nnfl,iioo ; James
It. Keene, $l.,,nni,i)0l. ; George A Hearn.
jm.non.nnri; iienry M. Flagler. $IO.oiin..
i oon ; Isaac V. Ilrokaw, $ I O.ilOn.O'iu :
liltsnge W. Cjulntard. 2.:r,o,rifi(i ; itobert
c. (is,,.,i. $2,nnn,(ion , iirnilley
Martin.
, l.aim.non, and Mrs. Minnie Ilackelt
Trowbridge, $1,500,000,
ZIMMERMANN
nlflraiice In the offer of his firm, known
German and Austrian exchange t pres.
cnt nr ces. navable tilnetv ,1,, - ,..
. ,, , ,.,,u,., . ,(.,. .. , .
n L 1 r.1CTSU V.V.S. L'.h-i1 ".'.C n?""
date ut the Deutscher Hank. Berlin, or
111 tne wiener tiaiiKvere In Vienna.
"It was pointed out that this 1 the first
time since the commencement of the war
mat time iiiiih of exchange on rlthe
Germany or Austria have been offered
111 me American market und Mr. Zlm-
nermann was asked whether ho was act-
lug In cooperallon with the Central
Powers and whether the transactions
proposed reflected the view of tho latter
that the war would he over In ninety
"""
aio.t ueuenir I'naa Paaaed.
Mr 7imm.,.n , .,
. . . . . . ' " iv l"? 'I"".
tlon by saying that the most delicate
phase of the movement to end the war1 . V , ' .1 . '?CK ,ln"
Ima been pa.sed. The Ire has been , '"'T ,of .".'S ,m?,r,or' ,,he nrht "fker.
broken and It but remains for tho ex- ,P'',1",J he nolle) and purposes of the
cltement of the situation to wear off hi N '!'- Onverntnent. and em-
that the conservative clement tuny pro- l'tial"'l "reec s obligation to tho Bn
va. ' ' " tout Allies, M, Aravantlnos dwelt at
"it miv h .tnie.i r.tiiihu. ,k.. i -,i length on the policies of King Conatail-
liiformed quarters among the rulers and
... i . .... ..... ... .. '.
nipiouiain nuniiiu mr vim or me war s
roiriinleil ii h u realization iinnn.in, i..
upon terms of adjustment which can und
will be agreed upon. In well Informed
circles whero lender of Kuropenn coin-
inerce prevail nrepiiratloni are nlroi.ilt-
In the making In anticipation of tin early,
peace
"I think that by the end of ninety
days the belligerents will be well nit the
way to agreement as to tho terms of a
lasting peace, I have every reason to
believe that In places of highest Bit
thorlty commercial actlviUaa are being
anctaraa-ed with thla view In mind,"
igreeks riot at
tf AMHT IUC 1 1 Mil' I
LVHULllDAlllU
Royalist Shout at Terrace
Garden Meeting Match
in Powder Magazine.
FISTS AND MISSILES ELY
(Crowd of 1,H00 Then Cheer
I'ln'oitriouHly for Vcnizelos
and Republic.
Daring hut amazingly Indiscreet,
man rose fiom his scat far back in Ter-
,.HCe ,-aratn wl,lle a ma meeting of
. -,. in nrna-res vea-'
-Nc" ork r'eh In progress cs
tcrday afternoon and shouted Long
Live tho King!" It wan on If he had
' - ed a niatcl, Into a powder magazine,
Itefore the tumult which followed the
explosion subsided, some fifteen, minutes
acr wef0 lnrown nbout. scores ,
,.... ........
oi icip raincu uiows on onenunis ""
an, follr mcn ww tumbM through th.
itoom upon the sidewalk.
Th meeting had been arranged by the
Crek Satlonal ttrrald to glte residents
n oppor,uml: 10
'"'rn of conditions In the mother land
frntli P.Mrt Arai'.ntlnn. .ml (l.irr. I
I'ano Aravantlnos and (leorge
Cifandnrls, the Vcnlxetos envoys, who
arrived In this country recently. It was , T1( Inspector-nenerars conclusions
intended to he purely educational, but It.aie reported In to-day'n statemeiit. In
resolved Itself Into a mlhty demonstra-
tlon for a republican Oreete.
, T1 e ,'1 Kln Constantlne
yallHt with their counter demonstration
bPed the causo of Elcutherlos enlzelos
'"ore than the ipeaker themselves,
Their outbreak fanned the spark of en -
thusljsin Into a raging conflagration and
half an hour after the uproar began
evrrynooy was snouting "i.ong i.ive me
Hepubllc
'loyalist Take t'p Challenge.
Speaking In Creek both addresses
t,noH hsul urawn a comparison between
the policies of Venltelo and an
. . . . .
"Indi
vidual who. under the constitution. Is
"" ', . . "-
nan, ,, dlyMiial. but a man near
the i rca r of the hall did.
ZHp " as lefs! (Long live the
King!) lie cried.
Instantly l.fcoo men and women the
auditorium was packed were on their
feet shouting. From a thousand throats
came a demand which Its effect led the
fcw ""n-Oreek speaking pereom present
to translate as "Throw him out!" A
Somebody near the platform raised his
al Ir above his head nnd elbowed hl
way down the aisle, apparently shouting ,
" "iuivbicih oi "ijm me get at him!"
When within rango he let fly his weaDon.
hut It only grazed the back of an lnno-1
rent bystander. Kncouraged by eager
hands and arms the shouter for the King ,
was ioon bundled down the front steps.
w" many cuis on ms tace and nis body
ror' 1fr.".m ''rulses.
, ' "' n Annanunin, nanus in
his vncket. was viewing the tumult,
Mmiingiy. Just oeiow mm. on tne poor
nl ' r"'' -""rK rritcKis. leader,
' " .,- " iin u, j.irr,y.
I ""I ,.n,0,ial anthem. I
I'Ut tllC Uproar Was r.Ot yet to end. .
I roni one of the upper boxes came once
! I' wi,..er:
I "' ". ol empnnsis a cnair was nurled
nniiilT bt t raltlert the able' and
r S
tumnier crasning to tne floor.
i . . . . ..
i.enners i r jn .tppenae irdnil,
Dr Demetrius Calhlmarhns. editor of
the .Viiflo.iol llrrnlil. nnd John P.ina-
gnulopes of the Hellenic Liberal Aso-
elation, ftandlng nu the edge of the fll.it
fotin. and C Kontos of the committee In
i barge of the meeting, leaning across the
railing of a lower box. waved their hands
liantli'.iliy In an effort to appease the
crowd, while willing tolnnteers were es-
,'ortlng the upstalis offender to the nest-
est cU Menuvvhil,, th band, having
finished the "Hymn tn Liberty." started
a second rendition, nnd this time Col
.avos of the Greek artillery and Col,
irevaios oi inr niiaiiti, win, urn mem-
f , ;c, ewi'i I'i,r''. ruiR,
the wnids of the chorus.
When he was able tn resume his
speech M. Ar.ivantlno, who In a lawyer,
skilfully capltallxed the Incident which
had Just been enacted.
"Here you have a picture of the Greece
nf to-day," he said, "Only a few people
try to Impose their will upon the masses
of the people,"
The speaker was destined to suffer
many more Interruptions, but they were
encouraging rather than hostile. The
crowd wauled to help him along. At
I, ngth Father Methodlos Courcoulls of
Hie Greek urtlwnnx cnuren or tne Holy
l'," " '., ' nl for Ven'.zelo, Bint
. Be quiet . ve nte ror ul.zelos. and
lie tiuiei : imnmiur i-n.scius, aim
Veulielos has the fear ot God If, IiIh
heai t,"
I.iihk Live the llrpuhllc!'
This nppeal, coupled with Its assur-
mice, wiih effective. No one Intcirtlplnd
M. Aiavantlnos, excejit with an oc-
caslonal shout of approval, until, fond-
j)K the ends of an American flag on
the table before him. the speaker said :
"You are fortunate in living beneath
tho protecting folds of this banner. In
ureece we nave no irccnoni ot speecn."
insinniiy in auuirneo arose en masse.
1 and everybody Joined In a chorus of
I "Zltn o Democratla !" which, being trans
.7 In a n.mnrrn. " ivli r I h. nv n..nu.
Inl.fl mean "l-niiu tlv the r.nnl.lln f
!ln(! ''"' ,ei;,l,'.''a hlm lo Insincere
I,, his nrotARtiltlotiM nf tinntrnl ti. 'rl.a
" ' ." ..... ' ,
meeting was the Hist of u series at
w,m'' "!n . ?ml,:f ar,e" wl" sirf','
,l10 "recks of this city.
,. . . 7. T.
Australian Coal for llavrnll.
llosoi.t'l.t'. Dec, 17. Advices received
nrru n ciium nun, Auniruun say mat
tiio Government lit control of outgoing
cargoes has prohibited further coal uhlp
inenut to the Hawaiian Islands, steam
era which were expected to bring the
usual supply are leaving Newcastle In
ballast, It waa aald. The effect upon
this port will be aerloua,
&ceb?
aAKiiiW nuuixUEKasinm i
CONTROVERSY TO CEASE
q
, '
i sioiuiy, jueciares weapon
-Was Never Offered
Wasiiinoto.v, Dec. 1 7 -KJiuVlal con
demnation of the Lewis machine Run,
extenslrely purchased for the British and
Canadian armlcr, Is expressed In a for
mal statement Issued to-nliht hy Hccrc-
i Ury Biker, assuming full rinponslblllty
I for the action of the War Department
' with respect to the much discussed
I weapon mid directing that the contro-
vtrsy among iirmy oIIIccik. led by Oen.
ic-nnni wood on one side ana uen.
Crozler on the other, shall cease.
-what responsibility attache to the
condemnation of thin mm an a service
"u belongs to tho War Department,"
())i MntMnont ..,, n0t ((J ,e
FhM of ori,)Illlce r ,ll( ordtianco di-
p.irtmcnt The proceeding of the In.iiilj
l
"'l,ro4t" ni ne.ccreiar oi
Tp Mntcmcnt shown thnt the In
spector - Ceneral was directed to Investl
bIs Hi. wlml,. nnii.r .. ih. ir.nm.nl
, ", . ..... ..
' " LT Z
controversy reached the stage where
open letters from high ranking army
officers were published."
A hoard of officers had agreed w th
previous boards that the gun was not
xultahlc for extensive purchase for the
' )
Not OrTrred to I.
f' n?" 0"'? t 1'aragraphs already
( (pioted he finds no official record that
Col. Lewis ever offered his gun In any
way to the United States Government:
. that the American Arm Company In
1913 mnde the only offer 100 guni at
i St.nno each with license for tlovcrn-
uncut manufacture on u royalty basis;
' that tests of the gun were conducted hy
, regularly constituted boards: that tho
.-. nuns v.oniiany in April oi mis
year wroio to iicn. uroiicr, cnier or
ordnance, expressing entire satisfaction
with the work of the last board.
"The records," says the statement, "do
not ahow any hostility on the part of
Oen. Croxler or the ordnance depart
ment to the Lewis gun, but do show that
the department, by direction of Ita chief,
afforded the owners of the gun every
possible facility In placing it before the
testing board.
"Such testa as the Lewis gun has been
subjected to have been made under a
programme authorized by the Hoard of
Ordnance and Fortification nnd ap
proved by tho Secretary of War and
U.S. AGENTS DETAIN
BARON OPPENHEIM
illlllil (if Fflim'lv nf KfOlli-ll
naiiKors neia .Mysteriously
at Ellis Island.
Itarnn ftobert Oppenhelm. a cabin ile
lue passenger nbonrd the Holland
America liner Noordam, which got In
yesterday from Itotterdim nnd l al-
mouth, wis detained at Kills Island lat
t,s,t under lather ni)s!erlous clrcum-
stances. The orn.-r ror ins detention ap-
p.lrf ntly proceeded fiom the local Iminl-1
nr., Inn nti,hrlll..e .lnr. i.r.lnrr nf
1 ,nhnr Wilson said In Washington last
n Bm..'"al n M '"V. r."...1.":
,,rllt..0ns and certainly would have
1"1 ?wu" ,f A"0 ff 1 ".V nrdT
UT V" VfTtm"n in porl
t of Nfw York.
' Baron Oppenhelm Is described n a
,,.,,,, ,r nf a wenlthv f.imtlv of French
hankers, with unices in London and
Pari". As the Noordam enme up the
hay from Quarantine he explained that ,
he was a son of the Baron Oppenhelm
who wis prominently connected with
Rothschild banking Interes.s, but that
he himself had not been actively con-
nected with the banking business for
several )e,ir, He said he hsd com.' to
America' for recreation and for the ben-
, m c,f his health, and that this s ,s
second visit In two enr.. On June 17
st Uaron Oppenhelm was recorded in
news as one of the departing sea-
coers
The order on whi h Baton Oppenhelm
was oeinineii as r,'i,t-,i ju-i ii.-inir int
Noordam wua made fast to her dock
The Immigration nlllcera nvolded ei.
planatlons, saying merely that the pas
senger was to go to Hills Island "for
fuither examination."
PEACE SUFFRAGETTES MOBBED.
S-.lt In Pnnkhurat nml Folliniers
I, nnd In Puller Stntlnn.
liMniS, Dec. 17. Sylvia Pnnkhtiist.
the militant suffragette, and a n umber of
Kates this afternoon to demand ps'iice
. ,,. ro.l nssembleil ami mnbl
hlir crowd assembled and mobbed
the speakers. The police Interfered and
rushed Miss Pankhu.st nnd her friends
,0 a police stallon folloived by a .lemon-
. u,Ur. Tl, ,ioll,.n interfered m,.l
stratlve crowd, Tlie prlsoncrM were held
under ball for eaiulnatlo,i berore
Magistrate,
rfltrH. NEW JUDGES NEXT WEEK
cv'u"
, .. . ....... , ..
'.ovrrnnr Mill nil vacancies ,n-
proves Mntr .Managrr I'liin.
,,,,,,, announced last tilnht
,, ,,..., ,,Im dnnrttirn for Alb.mv
. "m ,t, i,ii,.i,r. ,,"
'." . ... '
polntiuents next week. These are to till
vacancies in.,. ,,.. v., .,. cuuiire, as wen as tne vvnniesnie and re
....... I.,.. tin, ,u OnfHtlnneil nhollt linvini. ,,.n .i...,...u i.. .... ............
"' '.. , .
a Hepubllcan Stale minager Itibtead of
Stat.! chairman ho siiU the. idea' did noi
originate with lm hut I, approved It
heai Ills-
lie will be back to New York later In
the week to lev-lew the National Guard
,.r,nn.,,,df that ate leturnlng from the
, : .
border,
.Nentrnl Slraiuahlp Sunk.
LoniiON, Dec. 17. Lloyd's announces
the sinking, piesuni lbly by submarine,
of the Danish steamship Michall Out
clioukoff and the British rchooncr Con
stance Mary,
The Michall OnteHoukoff, of 2.11ft
Hons, sailed fro- Itnsarlo November 2S
for I-aa Palmas, Canary Islands.
For your stomaen'a sake drink
Brush's Kurnyss. -Advtrll$4mtnl,
Dr,
m Regp(m.;
m.n .
raueu iu jueei,
to United States.
were mado by boards of ofneers named
In orders from tho Adjutant-Ocncra.'i
otllce one officer of the ordnance de
partment on each board.
Submitted lo Teat.
The controversy over the Plattsburg
test nroso through tho fact that the
owners of the Lewis gun had previously
submitted It to two tests to boards con
vened by the War Department under a
programme npproved by the Hoard of
Ordnance and Fortification and It had
failed to pass what is known as the
arsenal or endurance test, thereby losing
Its right to th Held test proposed by the
programme of the Hoard of Ordnance
und Fortltlcatlon or to any test not au
thorized by the War Department.
"The controversy which has nrlaen
does not Involve questions of fact, mere
ly the value of opinion as to tho char
acter nf the test to which this gun was
subjected ut PlatUburg."
The germ of the controversy waa that
Major-Oen. Wood believed that the ma
chine gun Invented by Col. I. S. Lewis,
retlied, was the most suitable for the
service. Uen. Crozler did not recom
mend it. Subsequently the gun was re
ported to have done excellent work In
tho Kurooean war after Ita adoption by
the British army. The charge waa made
that Oen. Crozler was responsible for
not seeing Its merit when It was onereu
to tho United state.
In April. 1916. a hoard tested the
Vlckers, Bcnet-Mercler and Lewis guns,
and Oen. Crozler stnted later that the
Lewis gun "performed badly.'"
tjen. Wood Names Board.
Following this Major-Gen. Wood ap
pointed a board which tested the llenct
Mercler and Lewis guns at Plattsburg.
Thishoard reported that the Lewis gun
warsupcrlor In everything but mobility,
nnd in that it was the equal ot the
Henet-Mercler.
The Vlckers gun Is used In second line
trenches In Franco for defensive work,
while tho first line trenches are equipped
with the Lewis guns.
In September last Secretary Baker de
cided to appoint a board to tent and
consider the merits of the three guns.
Th3 army appropriation bill provided
$12,000,000 for the purchase of machine
uns for the army and the National
Guard, and the War Department was
anxious to settle the respective merits
of the three guns once and for all nnd
to expend the $12,000,000 on the gun
which proved the best.
"DRYS" IN FRANCE
TO KEEP UP FIGHT i
Jean l-'inot Says Full Prohibi
tion of Alcohol Is Hound
to Come.
'nr.rtr Cnhl rtttMtrh In The Scs
Paris. Dec. 17. Jean Plnot. editor of
, , . . I.ntcnle rrom glvhu nil -v hm n itinwer
l.a Have, who for two years has car-j rv! ox,,t .,,.lXflK f vieviH at
rd on a campaign for the suppression the outet of the tiegonatloiis, but great
of the use of alcohol In Prance, warmly apparent dlvergeni, of o, i .Ion ll
welcomes Premier Brland's pledge to ';ve les slvnlfl.-ance when the ...al ex
... , planatlotH are olfi-n d. The M midpoints
forlild the use of splilts. f p,,,), naitles ..), a.ieady p.ntlv Identl-
The Govei ntnent," he sahl, "has
, taken a long tlmo to give Its promtee.
. Th realization Is not yet reached, but
we have obtained tile Interdiction of tba
sale nf alcohol to women, minors and
mobilised men, who form eight-tenths nf
the population. Our programme goes
further Truth Is now on tho march
nnd nothing can stop It. France, rid of
alcoholism, will triple her moral and ma
terial strength." '
Srr IHctMnrlnl Trend.
The bill under which the Government
W lo deal 'byadec"eH wlih'muU"
I'on. ernlng the national defence, brought
alum a lively discussion in th Chnmber
of Deputies yesterday. Some of the
Deputies asserted that they saw in the
bill the establishment nf a dictatorship,
while others: declared that Its provisions
denoted an Infringement of the privileges
of I'ai li.imeut.
Premier Brland defended th measure
as particularly necess.ny for dealing In
rase of urgency with situations like civil
tequlsltlonlng In order to prevent specu
lation In food nnd al'o to deal with other
subjects, such as the prohibition of the
sale of ulcohol. The proposed measure,
the Premier said, was similar to meas
ures adopted In other countries,
Befeiicr I hp Chief Subject.
Pierre Lavnl. referring to the civic
the Socialists it spirited discussion. M,
,.., 1 ...... . .....,.. ... .
... .," ....' . .'r..'.' "
"I'P'-"""' " oeci.inng ciunug mis discus-
,7,; "
, . m0CnlvX .
J ? i , nl of
are not
the do-
The measure was refeired to a special
committee,
The Government's: Intel, lion to pro
hlhll the consumption nf alcohol has
aroused strong opposition umong the
Inrae wine nnd spirit dealers. The s.vn
illcate nf the wholesale mr.rslia,i,u ' nt
TUZ ,e,tea vv'rnHer
Tlrb.ml
A protest slirneil .v
k.,i. ..,ii.. ,. 1...
.C... .J ., p',., n,r'"
........ ..... ,',.ni.rii iiiran
i?I?.p'!fi! mfn1'
rre,'! nnon n.rl.
ure will have a eeilous effect upon agrl
..... .iruinr, .,r ill mr raw III nDSinill.
a prohibited since 1015, demands aro to
; ' "m "fo7 '" Jta ' ZnlZ
,hc new measure goeit,.n,.o,,;ffc,cV.Ul0!'
BIG GUNS ACTIVE IN TRENTIN0,
Cnnnnii Duels lan Take Plncr on
Ibr Julian Front,
Bomk, Dee 17 --"In the Trentlno.'
says an official statement Issued to-day ... ., . ...
by the Italian War Department, "the ar. - ' 1 lr Unn,u 1
tlllery was more active. Our butteries' "'To go furth.'r In outlining ' peac
disturbed the inuvements of the enemy intidllio.iH would have meant a u udi
In the upper Astlco, Valley and on tho. cap lo the Central I'lmrir in easo icon.
A.lugo plateau. trary to what some newspnurs in ho
"On the Julian front artillery duels I tile rouiiltles have dt-cliiicd i he lio.tllo
and putrol reconnalMancea took plnoo. Governments decided ti enter into ne.
Tho enemy stopped ehelllhg Monfalcono gollatlons or diacusslons. It Is n smf,'
when our large callbro bntteriesi began .evident truth tlvat nobody could come to
firlns on enemy billets at aomano.M Uucn negotlatlona with tied hands ahllu
I
'says america
MUST JOIN IN
DISARMAMENT
German Newspaper Also
Demands Free Seas for'
Permanent Amity.
BRITISH PHKSS SEE IX
PEACE XOW BETJIAYAB
"Will Smash Militarism as
Lincoln Smashed Slavery,"
Says the "Observer"
PROPOSED PARLEY IS
INDICATED FOR JAN. 13
London Still at. Sea as td
Stand Premier Will Take
on Proposals.
The United States must rciliic.. ita)
navy as part of a disarmament pro
gramme after pence Is concluded, ac
cording to the Fraitk-fiirtrr ZcUuna,
Germany would not object to partial
disarmament If nil nations did tho
namo nnd If tliero wen n council of
nations to secure peuce, the newxpnper
ha'K,
A (lennan dlpUmnt quoted by tho
reml-oMlclnl OvcrMons NVvvh Auonc)
says the Centtnl Powei do not want
to annihilate or dcurny anybody nnd
that the Orrmnn pr ico tnrniH when
they arc nudu known will he mucIi hm
to establish l.-istlni- pi-iiro.
British press comment Mill uneii
coursiKlllK nf hopes of v illy pc.icc. but
leans morn toward tho view that Cirent
Britain and nil the Kntcnto Allien
should state the rc.iKins why they aro
flghtlnp. The London (JUsmrr polnlM
out that conquest has Riven tho tier
mans n central Huropcmt otnplru from
which they mint bo ilMmlm 1 liefor,,
a lasting pcacu is ics.slhlc. Labor
ienucrs niui-vo lierimui) i not cx
iliiustcd, but a despup h to the London
Vlmr.t Mi.ys food strliiEt'iicy In tin (Vn
trnl Umpires Is the rcasfni fur thi
peace proposal.
SAYS U. S. MUST .O.V.
Frankfort evvpnprr tlnkrs Ainrr-
ten Party to lllsnriiiiiniriit.
ncr.t.lN (via Ani-lerdaiiil, Dec 17 -The
frankjurlrr .rttuitii. In tin .utlcle
I on the peace- jiroposalf .
i "Gerinnny miirt tiv
! "'erinany mutt try lo pi event the
' cal as lenards ihi general fiiiidainental
alms of the war, and the Gi.i.i.iii note
tnllM be tindet stood lis IIK HIIIIIK that
I part of the Herman pn..os!ils ri fer in
j the teetiibllhment of imViiuuonal cur.
ventlons for the nvolil.in. e o. Ultima
tlonal conflicts and gii.u autre interna
tional pe.u e "
lleferrlllg to the j.oJ.ibilil of iil'rvi.i -Inu
the biltden ii? .ii ni.in.e.i. - tin Intnl.
infer elfii'i; evpie-ses tin' L" lief lha'
an ngii cnient in tins , ifi . t is .oi.ibt
owing to the sufT, tniKs c.iu-cU by war,
and adds :
, . V VT '.!..".
! "r'11 ''" Tl'Tl
weie a common t K.111I..1II011 of na
tions, In which litriiLiuy would have an
Impoi taut place. '
Insists ,,
re ena.
Dlsciivsitm the
tl.lVlll qt,-t . .,. tho
paper explains that Geim.iti) s II. , t has
been built only for defensive pill pofc",
and continues
"If Genuati shipbuilding Is lo be re
stricted III tho future nUier naval
Powers, Incliiillng the rnlteil Mates,
must do likewise Gnat llili.i'u nius'
recognlr.,, the "ell lis 11 flee "III. for n'l
nations and must renounce dominations
nnd tho British Idea that Great Britain
baa tho sole right of policing the seas.
The ictrulatlnc of sen trait).' niiLht tirnti-
1 erly bo under intermit. ..ii.il organlza
tlon." ' 'I he I'rnnkjurlrr y.cltunn "oncludes
11 ,i... 1
If the poace offer Ita not iLvopleil, and
Germnny Is forced t. tlglf mull her
,,..,,. i ,.,imlliot,.. then lb,, peace will
be of quite a different kind.'
For n Lasting; Pence.
"Some sections of the I'oreivin pi.ss,
and especially newsi.ip,'r.s !n lintllu
countries." sa.v.s the Oveii'is N'cvvs
Agency, "having deiiared thu Hie Cen
tral Powers ought to have 1 1 I , I I ibflul
tlve peaco prnpos.itM to Ihe.f pent, off or.
the Overseas Agency asked u dlstln-
. ".. .
nt.lul.A,, ,'...'...... . I,,, 1, f... t.lu
,. . ". " i ;
" '"in uerman noie
'The German note to tho I'nlcnU
' Governments contains a very detlnlto
- i. inn ..u in (
I communication as to the spirit of tho
.... ...
pearo conditions which
tho Central
Powers would bring to
the proposed
., , ,na
S"rhi cr
f " 'T1,e C,rnl VV7 r, Pr"
'X
contradiction in inn nunta ot other na
tions. In addition tho Central Powers
dcclaro they do not want tn annlhllile or
destroy anybody and that the pence pro.
pnsals will bo uf siii'li a nature as tn
guarantee thu cstiibllslini. ot of a lust
ing pence.
