"* _L .
I ,?, "TnFf, ^TlT^ *^LIaA-AA-I-AA/ -. ^ O 'r""-Fr"'te H<"W
morrow, colder'and probably fair; jl 1 1^ | V'l lI | ! H'Tv Within the Hour*'
\wsm^ wye xiijputlg 9iut? j:.zzzj
CLOSING NEW 1?RK STOCKS PAGE 17. ^ \ / >?/ "?? ? '" *< "??,. 7?'M7< S??' **-?*Xo.
29.53^ ~~ ~~ WASHINGTON, D. C., M(>NUAY, DECEMBER 38, 3916 ?TWENTY PAGES. '* ONE CENT.
BIG DEFENSE FORCE'
new
Gen. Scott Tells Senate Com-1
mittee 1.500.000 T rained
? Men Are Needed.
*
BOTH SIDES ARE HEARD
Advocates and opponents of a system
of universal training for military service
10 replace the volunteer system as the
mainstay of the nation's defense had a
hearing today before the Senate military
committee, on Senator Chamberlain's bill
for universal training, which is supported
by the army general staff.
While representatives of organizations
opposed to the bill, headed by Walter L.
Fisher, former Secretary of the Interior,
gave their reasons for opposing it, Maj.
Jen. Scott, chief of staff of the army, detailed
t? the committee why the general
staff considered the volunteer system I
broken down, inefficient and useless and \
9 urged that it he discarded for a universal
* system of liability to training and service
Now Wants 1.500.000 Men.
'Jen. Scott, disclosing much of the
, Army War College material hitherto
regarded as confidential, shows that j
the army general staff now believes!
that instead of ">00,000 available men, j
which it considered sufficient as a start j
to defend the country against invasion, j
the country should have 1.500,000 fully
trained men at the beginning of a war.
with a like number ready to follow in
ninety days. The change is based on the
development of tin* British army, the organization
of great Canadian forces and
the British alliance with Japan.
With such a force available the army
general staff. <Jen. Scott said, considers I
th?? United States practically immune
from such an attack as military strategists
believe might be expected from
the victorious set of powers in the
European war.
Volunteer Plan a Failure.
Says Chief of Army Staff,
Urging Universal Training
Maj. Gen. Scott, chief of staff of the
a>my, told the committee that the army
general staff recommended without
apology that the volunteer system be
discarded because "the time has come
when this country, unless it intends
to avoid war at any cost, must resort
to universal liability to military train%
ing and service."
Arraigning the volunteer system as
extravagant, inefficient and dangerous,
the chief of staff told the committee
that universal training would be demnoi-a
r I*. rolinhlt- cHificnt and eco
. comical, and within a few years prac- ?
ideally render the United States immune
from attack.
"It would be democratic," > said,
because the burden of national defense
would fall equally upon all citizens.
It would make it impossible for
any man or group of men to trade upon
the nation's necessities in time of war.!
The system would be reliable because j
it would produce each year the number I
of men necessary to be trained. It '
would be economical because it would ;
be based upon recognition by the peo- (
pie of the duty of the individual to!
render personal service, and in carry-1
ing it into effect the government would ,
not have to compete in the labor mar- j
ket. It would be efficient because it j
would enable us to prepare adequate- '
ly for war before war comes."
Failed in Mexican Crisis.
At the outset 'Jen. Scott pointed out
that the Mexican crisis had failed to I
recruit many National Guard organ!- J
xations even to their minimum peace j
strength.
"The failure should make the whole
people realize that the volunteer system
does not and probably will not
give us either the men we need in
oeace or for service in war," said he.
Reviewing the intensive training
which Euroj>ean and other nations
require, he declared that if American
troops e\*er were to compete
with highly trained and splendidly
disciplined forces they would require
raining and discipline at least equal
to that of their opponents.
f The lessons of the European war. the I
general said, had demonstrated that a
higher standard of training and disci- !
nllne were required than was popu- j
;arly considered necessity before, and
, that most of the European nations for !
r that reason found they could not de- |
velop them in less than two years with I
the colors. j
"It should he obvious." said he, "that '
32 hours' training prescribed for the j
National Guard is utterly inadequate to j
prepare this force for war service."
3.000,000 Men for War.
For war with a first-class power the
that a(M>,0?>it fully equipped troops should
be ready at the outbreak and that 50jO. j0
more should be available in ninety '
lays. In view of the lessons of the war,
the general was now of the opinion that
hese numbers should lie tripled, and that
:.5?)0,000 fully equipped and ready troops
should v available, with another 1,500,- j
o<? to fotiow iii ninety days.
"This is ousaid he. "t?> Ii:fact
that one of the powers involved In the
.var, and whose territory extends the
whole length of our northern frontier,
has increased its army from a relatively
sniail tore*- to a strength approxp
1 mating that of the other great Kurow
pean powers. Due to the fa?-t that-our
northern neighbor is largely an island
-inpire, a great portion of any trained
force it may possess can be spared for
A use in a distant theater of operations.
% because, being an island empire, the
control of the sea gives it practical immunity
from invasion where troops
would have to be transported across
the sea.
Has Ally in Orient.
"It should be pointed out also that
our northern neighbor is in alliance
with a powerful oriental nation?another
island empire?and for the same
reason when acting in alliance with a
power which has control of the sea.
has ability to send Its army of 2,225,000
men to any part of the world without
danger of invasion.
"I think a mere statement of these
facts makes it clear that at present we
are practically defenseless before the
?cteran armies of our northern neighbor,
and could easilv be crushed by the
existing coalition of the Island empires.
"J have said enough, by way of ilostration
only, to make It clear that
; f we are menaced by one of these
powers alone, having lost control of the
rsea. we should need more troops for
1 defensive purposes than have entered
utv the popular conception of our military
problems heretofore.
"A factor which has in the past played
a part in protecting us from recent agIC
on UiTuedToirFc ur t t -nth age- 7)
#*w
RUSSIANS HOLD UP 1
TEUTONIC ADVANCE:
Rumanian Army Now Safe, j I
According to News Reach- j
ing Paris.
BERLIN REPORTS PURSUfT
? j
By the Associated Press. '
1-OXDOX, December IS, 2:10 p.m.?
Tlie Teutonic offensive in Rumania has
been arrested by the Russian fire, the
Russian var office announces. The
statement, as intercepted bv the British j '
admiralty, and collected by the Wireless
T>**0vs5s tvjjs iii:?do miblin as fol- 1
lows:
"On the Rumanian front In the re- j
gion west and southwest of Romniku- i
.Sarat our scouts made reconnoissances. I
"In the region of the Filipeehti railway
station and in the region of Dihbatogu
the offensive of the enemy was
arrested by our tire."
Rumanian Army Now Safe.
PARIS, December IS.?Tl]e Rumanian 1
army is now safe, according to news
received in Paris, says the Petit Parisien.
The paper says that the survivors
are now beyond the Sereth river
at Jassy and in Bessarabia, where they
are being regrouped and refitted in
view of further operations. The entire
Rumanian front is now slated to !
be held by the Russians alone.
After the Bucharest-Ploechti line was
lost, the story says, the Russians sent
divisions and forces of cavalry to support
the retreat of the Rumanian army.
King Ferdinand fell back as rapidiy as
possible. . assured of the possibility of
reforming behind the shelter of the Russians,
and continued the withdrawal j
without halting until the Sereth was !
crossed. The Russians offered strong re. j
sistance to the Germans in the region of j
Buzeu so as to permit engineers to con- |
struct a defensive front between Rimnik '
Sarat and the Danube marshes, on which j
front, it is stated, the Russians intend j
to stop the advance of the invaders. j
No Change. Berlin Reports. \
BERLIN, December 18, by wireless to j
Sayville.?No change in the situation on i
the Rumanian front is recorded in to- [ ^
day's communication from armv head- I
quarters. *
Teuton and allied troops, under com- !
mand of Field Marshal von Mackensen, j 1
Saturday crossed the Buzeu sector in 11
central Rumania over a broad front, j
according to yesterday's German official i
statement. i 1
The invaders took 1.150 prisoners j
and captured nineteen locomotives and 5
400 railway cars. In Dobrudja pursuit t
of the retreating: Russian and Ru- jt
manlan troops has brought the forces j *
of the central powers to the forest j *
district in the northern part of the !'
province, where, it is said, they expect j t
to meet with resistance. !
Fetrograd May Be Beluge. J
The correspondent at Stockholm <A <
the Lokalanzeiger telegraphs that dur- '
ing the meeting of the last Rumanian (
crown council it was resolved that the Rumanian
foreign office should be
transported to Petrograd, the other
ministeries for the present being established
at Kief. The Rumanian parliament,
it is reported, will meet at
Petrograd. King Ferdinand is said to
have declared that he would stay one
week in Russia and then go to England.
The correspondent quoted Russian
news dispatches from Jassy, on the
Russo-Rumanian frontier, as saying !
that the Rumanian towns of Braila !
and tlaiatz. on the Danube, in south- I
eastern Moldavia. have been evacuated j
by the Rumanians.
NO TIME TO TAKE UP THE j
HALF-HOLIDAY QUESTION >
President Tells Callers He Has Been ]
Busy on Other Matters?Favors i
Wage Increase. I
i
President Wilson has made no prog- j
ress toward action favoring a Satur- <
lay half holiday in the District '
through the entire year, he stated
to callers today. He has been busy on
other matters arid has not been able | !
to smooth out tlie difficulties that pre- j!
ent themselves r?s to a uniform Sal- j I
WIU.t\ lldil in <3ii nit; M' |iui I - j
nifcii'.^. He does not know* when he ,
will have the time to take up the sub- <
je.'t again. but the intimation is that it
w ill not be in the near future.
The President has not been consulted
by the appropriations committee of the
House as to increases in salaries in tlm i
lower trades of government employ
ment, but it Is understood the con- I
ternplated action will meet with his ;tp- '
provai. He is deeply concerned in the j
increased cost of living and has direct- !
ed the use of every government agency
that may contribute to the alleviation
of existing conditions. Kvery channel
of law will be employed, he said, and in
addition the investigations being made
before legal steps arc taken are proving
, of value, in his opinion.
' Jimmy Wilde Knocks Out Zulu Kid.
l.O.NPoN, December 18. ? Jimmy |
Wilde, flyweight champion of Kngland.
, knocked out Frunkie Di Melfi, known
as young Zulu Kid of Brooklyn, X. Y..
in the eleventh round of their match
today.
j" ?
DAY IN CONGEESS.
Senatet
Met at noon.
Military affairs subcommittee
began hearings on * universal
training bill.
Privileges and elections com1
inittee named subcommittee to
re<iraft corrupt practices bill.
' Joint subcommittee on public
i lands began reconsideration of
; i,jl land leasing bill.
Resumed debate on District of |
Columbia prohibition bill.
lfoufte:
Met at noon.
' Hen. Weaver, chief of the
Coast Artillery, testified before
the military affairs committee.
Considered legislation on unanimous
consent calendar.
District of Columbia appropriation
bill, carrying $12,531,100, favorably
reported.
t
P
PEACE OFFER NOW
IN BRUISIt HANDS
Delivered by Ambassador Page
Informally and Without
Comment.
t
#
PREMIER SPEAKS TUESDAY
1
iy The Associated Press.
LONDON, December ,l.>. p. ?i-?
The peace note of the central powers
was handed to the British government J
today by Walter Ilines Page, the Amer- j
lean ambassador.
Mr. Page called at the foreign office j
early in the day. In the absence of 1
A. J. Balfour, the foreign secretary,
he presented the note to Lord
Robert Cecil, under-secretary for;
foreign affairs.
No Formality Observed.
There were no formalities in eon nee- j
lion with the presentation of the peace ;
proposals by Mr. Page. The ambassador ;
went in an automobile from the embassy
and was received in the foreign
secretary's room by Lord Robert Cecil,
who was acting for the foreign ininIster,
Mr. Balfour having just started .
dij a three-week vacation.
The note was inclosed in a large
white envelope. It was handed by Ambassador
Page to Lord Robert without
my comment, and the recipient made
no reference to the question of peace,
simply thanking Mr. Page for the
transmission of the message from the
central powers.
The two diplomats spent a short time
in conversation, hut as one said: "We
talked about everything but the contents
of the envelope."
The note will be considered by the
British cabinet tomorrow, it being received
too late today to enable the
council to be called. The next step
ifter the meeting of the cabinet will
je to get into communication with the
illies of Great Britain so that joint action
may be taken. This is expected to
:ake at least a week. f
It has been ascertained that the not.
contains no terms and the impression
contains no terms, and the impression
hese are disclosed a conference is impossible.
Delivered in Other Capitals.
The presentation of the German note
:o the entente allied governments has
tow practically been accomplished.
A'hile the British foreign office was
eceiving the document from Ambassuior
Page shortly after noon it is beieved
that a similar delivery was takng
place in Paris.
The Swiss minister at Rome has pre- |
sen ted the note of the central powers {
o Italy without comment, and through
he same channel the message was pre- !
jented to Belgium and Portugal, also
vithout comment. The Netherlands
ninister tendered the peace proposalo
Serbia in behalf of Bulgaria.
PHnr ti? rereiut of the note hi the !
British foreign office, the ylelfv^rfes to j
Italy, other countries hart j
jer*nltted exchanges concerning the'
ncact official contents, which proved to
be substantially ihc same as given in
the speech made in the reichstag l>y j
Chancellor von Hethnian Hollweg and ;
without containing any specific indication
of the terms.
It is also being observed in official \
circles that the note was uniformly !
presented without comment. This is !
taken to indicate that Germany framed :
the communication so that the neutral
intermediaries would act only as forwarding
agents, at least at the out- \
set.
Expected to Show Attitude.
Premier Lloyd George's speech id the i
house of commons Tuesday is expected
to show the gcneial attitude of fin-;
BrftTsh government. Thereafter < :c?hanges
between the entente allies wiil j
ieterrnine the nature of the joint reply, ;
but informal conferencs already have j
prepared much of the ground.
It is understoml the assertion made
in the German note that the war was j
forced upon Germany will not he per- j
mitted to go unchallenged, and that as
i matter of historical record Germany's ,
part in the events leading to the war
will be clearly shown. What Is .termed i
by British officials as Germany's meth- j
ods of conducting war against a civil-j
ian population, women and children, |
particularly in the recent Belgian do- j
portatiori, also is likely to be pointed |
nut. According to the latest advices!
reaching the entente allied govern-:
rnents, the number of Belgians deported;
has reached 120,000.
While the note as prosenu-d makts i
no reference to a conference', there I
continue to be indications that Ger-j
many is seeking a conference. This has i
led to a careful scrutiny of the last prece- j
rlent, that of the conference preceding
the peace congress at the close of the
Crimean war. A preliminary confer-!
ence was held at Vienna in 18.">4 and;
proved abortive, i?ut when the peace j
congress which finally settled th?- terms |
was held at Paris a year later the dis- j
cussions at the conference served I
Largely as a bisis.
Peace Hope Vanishing.
The Westminster Gazette, which all ;
along has held strongly to the opinion j
that the German peace proposal should j
receive serious reply, commenting: to- j
day on the statement that the note contains
no terms, says: "If the German
note contains no details and is merely
a repetition of t'bancellor von Bethmann
llollweg's speech in the reichstag,
the prospect of any Immediate result
is exceedingly slight.**
Lloyd George Is Better.
Premier Lloyd George was much bet- |
ter this morning and his secretary said !
that he would certainly make the
promised statement in the house of com- ,
mons tomorrow.
WHY GERMANY FAILED
TO STATE PEACE TERMS
Would Have Tied Hands, While
Enemy Was Left Free,
Says Official.
/
BERLIN, December 18, by wireless
to Sayville.?"Some sections of the
foreign press and especially newspapers
in hostile countries," sayjj^ the
Overseas News Agency, "having declared
that the central powers ought
to have added definite peace proposals
to their peace offer, the Overseas
Agency asked a distinguished German
diplomatist for his opinion on this
point. His answer was:
" "The German note to the entente
governments contains a very definite
communication as to the spirit of the
peace conditions which . the .central
. M
/
I
powers would bring to me proposed
negotiations.
" 'The central powers base these proposals
on the conviction that their own
rights and just claims today are not ii
contradiction to the rights of othei
nations. In addition, the central powers
declare they do not want to annihilate
or destroy anybody and that
the peace proposals will he of such ?
11iui e as to guarantee the establish "?
:it of a lasting peace.
'urther in outlining th<
peace conditions would have meant ?
..Cap iu ine central powers in case
(contrary to what some newspapers ir
hostile countries have declared) th*
hostile g- o c;ri.'.tent's tlecldCfl7 To" cntei
into negotiation*' or discussions. It is a
self-evident truth that nobody coul(
come to t uch negotiations with tier
hands while the hands of the othes
party were completely free.' "
newspIntpaWdata
sought byc0mmiss10u
Federal Trade Body Sends Telegraphic
Qucstionaires to Man':
f:.:turcrs and Publishers.
Telegraphic questiohaires will l><
Kent out this afternoon to manu
fa< turers and publishers throughou'
the country as a part of the efforts
of the federal trade commission
to adjust the newsprint papei
situation. This was decided on at th<
meeting today of the trade commissioners
and committees representing
ih<- manufacturers and the large anc
small publishers.
The contents of the telegrams wen
discussed at the morning session, ajk
the committeemen left at the luncheor
recess to prepare them and submit then
to the commission this afternoon.
Efforts will be made to obtain fron
the manufacturers information as t<
the tonnage manufactured from the be
ginning of 191 f? to date, the supplj
available for 1917, how much is or
hand and how much has been contract
ed for.
The telegram to the publishers wil
tsk for information as to their needs
for 1917, how many have been able t(
I irely witliout paper.
Small Publishers Hard Hit.
Representatives of the small publish
firs, it was learned, told the commissioners
in executive conference todaj
I hat five state organizations of news
papers which heretofore had been abb
to obtain paper now were unable to
These an- the newspaper organization:
in Missouri, Pennsylvania, North Caro
liria. Colorado and Kansas.
These papers, it was pointed out, tool
j. about 40(1.?M)t) ions of newsprint pape
in 1916. The representatives of thest
! associations are anxious to have thi
j commission determine what has be
come of this tonnage, which the littb
i papers arc unable to get.
It "was suggested that some of thi:
! was taken off the market by the trans
I fer of the newsprint manufacturing
I machines to the manufacture of wrap
ping paper, hut all of it cannot be ac
! counted for in this manner.
LARGEST" CHRISTMAS TREE.
I Pivot of New York's Municipal Cele
bration Is 75 Feet High.
NEW YORK, December IS.?Nevi
York's municipal Christmas tree
which will stand illuminated in Madi
son Square Christmas eve and arouru
which on the night of December 26 thi
official city Yuletide celebration will b(
held, is seventy-five feet high, thi
largest tree the city lias had since tin
custom of municipal Christmas treewas
inaugurated several years ago. A
the celebration a chorus of 1,000 voicei
will sing Christmas songs, and later ii
the evening the chorus and the throng:
of listeners will hear "The Messiah" a
Madison Square Garden.
The "tree of light committee," whicl
has the annual celebration in charge
says there will be "more trees of light1
throughout tho country than ever be
fore. The custom also has spread t<
Japan,
Aftl
fl
im ?=
E=^ g*| e?
IUIDliM
: FAVORS AGREEMENT
' Mexican-American Commis
; sion Resumes Sessions With
j Better Feeling.
MAY RATIFY PROTOCOL
j
j By the Associated J'ress.
j PHILADELPHIA, December Lb. -InI
i dications at the close of the morning
I | session of the Mexican-American comj
mission today were th/it Gen. Carranza
; was not disposed to close the door
I against tin agreement w ith the Amerij
ean representatives, who have been
j trying for more than three months to
' soivr questions, at issue between AJex'
ico end '.he i'. i.id \VI -a the
.commission r oi,.v? i.-d toii.iy, after a
i three-week recess. Alberto ,J. 1'ani re;
, ported the resultsa.if his visit to Due:? "
j taro. The report was made orally, and
c I was received by the Americans without
j comment. An adjournment until later
in the day was taken, when, it is expected,
the details of hjs written mes*
sage from Mexico will be discussed.
[ The exact character of hisCjreport was
t j not revealed, hut it was learned that
1 j although Carranza had not signed the
(protocol drafted at Atlantic City, this
was not necessary to he taken as an
-! indication that it would not be ratified
1 j later, the signature perhaps being that
j of Ambassador Designate Arredondo.
i who is qualified and authorized to sign
1 | such a document.
, ; Answer to Secretary Lane.
> It was understood that Mr. Pani's
- message was not signed by Carranza,
* but it was in the form of a com muni1
cation from the Mexican commissioners,
authorized by the Mexican executive,
1 and calculated to be an answer to the
5 statement made bv Secretary Lane,
\ chairman of the American commission,
made orj^ the last day of the conferi
cnces at Atlantic City.
To the terms of the protocol provid*
ing for the withdrawal of the Anier.
ican troops within forty days and on
condition that no new raids occur in
j that part of the country about the re
i gion now occupied by Gen. Pershing's
t i column, it is believed Carranza had of
I feretl no insuperttuie uujccuwu.
s | Carranza Deeply Wounded.
li is known that tin- declaration of
v Secretary Lane that the American govr
I eminent reserved the right of unrein
I stricted pursuit of bandits l?y Anier1
\ ican troops wounded deeply the sensie
I bilities of Carranza and members of his
! official family, and that the message
s I brought by Mr. Pani was little more
" 1 than a counter declaration of the pol'
! icy of the Mexican government. Un"
| less this counter suggestion is regarded
by the American members as or such
definite character as to preclude further
discussion, it was believed that
Carranza will not delay longer the ratification
of the protocol and that the
conferences will be resumed formally.
That such an outline of the Mexican
{policy would block the negotiations was
considered improbable, because the main
question at issue?the right of unreT
stricted pursuit?was not included in the
, protocol itself.
Notwithstanding the reticence of both
American and Mexican commissioners
* regarding the developments at the fore2
noon session, there appeared evident a
5 friendlier feeling.
An incident of the preliminary session
* was the appearance in the hotel of J. J.
' Morning Shopping Best
? Between 9 and 11 o'clock
1 is the ideal time to shop.
' The best selections may be
? made during the early morning,
before the stock has
' been picked over,
?
!
* f
I
j
Hnwes. who represented himself as
Villa's publicity agent. lie made an unf
successful effort to procure an audience
j with the American members of the comi
mission.
LIQUOR LICENSE PLEAS
I HEARD BY EXCISE BOARD;
i
Section of City Reported Improved
Since Several Saloons Were |
Eliminated.
I !
j That the conditions in the northeast j
I section of the city have improved since
| several of the saloons or wholesale j
j lieu or places had been eliminated was '
the statement of Capt. Henry Schneider 1
J of the ninth police precinct in testi- j
I fying before the excise board today. j
j Testifying in the case of John J.
' iMu-an. jili' ^nt for a wholesale liquor
j lie. ;.i 110t? "th street, lie said the
j section, in his opinion, was a resin
Pf i:' ! Mtr.Mr.
I'ii -.an told the board of having ;
i; i u c!' d : liquor business on 11th
:si;ee.t southeast, but was forced to
close., as lie was within the restricted
; zone of the navy yard.
; Kev. James F. Mack in. pastor of St, |
; Paul's Catholic Church, and Mgr. 1
I Aluigi Cassio appeared as witnesses i
\ for Angelo Chicc.-i, who desires to con- !
; duct a wholesale liquor establishment j
; at '1926 14th street northwest.
| Poth said they are not personally in- j
rerested in the establishment of tlie \
lace, but appeared to testify for the ;
i good character of the applicant.
Protests Against Licenses.
! "There are more saloons in that sec- |
tion of four blocks than in any other j
; section in the city." declared Attorney |
| Al!>ert Shoemaker of the Anti-Saloon i
i League, in protesting against the grant- j
j ing of a barroom license to Charles 1*. j
| Stohlman, at D street northwest, j
j formerly occupied by the Jolly Fat J
< Men's Club.
Protests were tiled l?y property own- I
1 ers and several business men against
I the transferring of a barroom license j
j of Michael M. Lyons from hot; Pennsvl- !
j vania avenue to llth street north- j
i west. Ii was declared by the protest- !
{ ants that there are enough saloons in !
j the near vicinity of F street to supply
the v. ants ??f those who desire liquor,
and that F street is too much used by
ladies t?? have a saloon in the near
pro x ini it y.
Several other applications for whole- j
I sale places, barrooms and transfers j
j are to be heard by the excise board this .
i afternoon.
GREEK ISLAND OF LEMNOS I
j REBELS AGAINST THE KING
| PARIS. December IS. 12:20 a.m.?The
inhabitants of the Greek Island of
j Lemnos "have issued a proclamation
J declaring King Constantine to have
' forfeited his right to the throne, acI
cording to a dispatch from Saloniki
i to the Havas Agency.
A committee of prominent citizens
; has been appointed, the dispatch adds,
i to convey the decision of the Lemnos
: populace to the provisional government
I at Saloniki.
i TO HOLD GERMAN BONDS.
Come Under Reprisal Order, British
Prize Court Rules.
| LONDON, December 18, 2:50 p.m.?Sir
| Samuel Evans, president of the British
! prize court, ruled today that German
! bonds come under the reprisals order
and that German securities to the value
of 30.000 marks which were seized
while on their way in a let ten to the
State Commercial and Savings Bank of
Chicago should remain in court as
I property of enemy origin until the declaration
of peace or until dealt with
as the court might direct subsequently.
The securities were seized on board
the Danish steamship Frederick VIII.
SENATE REJECTS
THE SMOOT BILL
Substitute Offered for Shep-i
pard Prohibition Measure
Fails by a Vote of 61 to 8.
LATTER BEING CONSIDERED1
By a rote of 61 to 8 the Senate today
rejected the Smoot substitute for the
Sheppard prohibition bill.
The Smoot substitute was a far more
drastic measure, prohibiting the manufacture,
sale, or importation of all alcoholic
beverages. The Sheppard bill per
mits the importation of such beverages
for personal use.
The eight senators voting for the
Smoot substitute were Senators Ashurst,
Brady, Curtis, Gronna, Reed,
Smoot, Thompson and Works.
The senators voting agair.s the substitute
were Senators Bankhead. Beckham,
Borah, Brandegee, Bryan, Chamberlain.
Chilton, Clark, Colt, Culberson,
Cummins, Fernald, Fletcher, Gore,
Harding, Hardwick, Hitchcock, Hollis,
Hughes, Husting, James. Johnson of
Maine. Johnson of South Dakota, Jones,
Kenyon, Kern, Kirby, La Follette, Lee
of Maryland, Lodge, McCumber, Martin,
Martine, Nelson. Norris, Oliver, i
Overman, Owen, Page, Phelan, Pittman.
Poindexter, Pomerene, Saulsbury,
Sheppard, Shields, Smith or Arizona.
Smith of Georgia; Smith of Michigan, j
Sterling, Stone, Sutherland, Swanson, \
Thomas. Townsend, Underwood, Varda- !
man, Wadsworth, Walsh and Watson, j
Hopeful of Vote Today.
The Sheppard prohibition bill was j
taken up immediately after the morn- i
ing business was finished, on motion of !
Senator Sheppard. It is the hope of the !
senator from Texas that a vote on the j
bill may be had before adjournment !
this evening.
Senator Gallinger of New Hampshire :
had read to the Senate a letter from Dr. i
Alsberg. chief of the bureau of Chem- '
istry of the Department of Agricul- i
ture, to the effect that it would seriously
hamper the work of the bureau if a j
law were enatced prohibiting the importation
into the L>istrict of pure j
alcohol for scientific purposes.
Senator Heed of Missouri offered an :
amendment to the Sheppard bill which
would prohibit the manufacture of alcohol
in the District for export pur
poses. Under the Sheppard bill it
would be possible to manufacture grain !
alcohol pi the District, and export it if
it were not to be used for beverage j
purposes. Senator Reed would prohibit
this. No action was taken on the j
amendment, however, as Senator Reed ;
stated he would perfect the amendment j
and offer it later.
Senator Underwood's amendment providing
a referendum of the prohibition
question to the people of the District
was then taken up and Senator Under- !
wood strongly defended the right of
the people in the District to say whether
they should have a prohibiition law
here.
An amendment offered by Senator
Oronna of North Dakota providing
that no liquor shall be imported for
?ift was jutoirtedi
Explains Referendum Amendment!
Senator Underwood, in explaining his
referendum amendment, said that it
conformed to the laws of states where
local option on the liquor question
maintained. He pointed out that a
petition for an election under his ref- 1
erendum amendment provided that one- ,
fourth of the taxxyers of the Dis- I
trict must sign the petition before the
election could be had.
He said that he had confined the persons
who may sign the petition to the
taxpayers because a list of all the tax- 1
payers was available, whereas the District
Commissioners have no list of the
real resilient citizens of the District. ,
After the petition has been signed. :
however, by a sufficient number of the
taxpayers the vote l?y the people on i
the prohibition bill would be taken by !
the residents of the District.
Senator Underwood said that he had
adopted this method of having a petition
circulated in order to avoid unnecessary
expense.
"If there are not one-fourth of the
taxpayers in the District in l'avor of
having the Sheppard prohibition bill j
voted upon, then there is no sentiment j
in the District for this bill," said Sena- j
for Underwood.
Senator Underwood said that there were {
about 50,000 taxpayers in the District and
they probably represent about one-third I
or one-half of the male population over j
twenty-one years of age.
He said he had been criticised by some j
of the Anti-Saloon league members be- !
cause he had not eliminated the colored I
people from voting. He said that to have I
done so would have violated the fifteenth i
amendment of the United States Consti- '
tution. and the law would have been void, ;
and the friends of prohibition would have
charged him with having attempted fraud j
upon the prohibitionists.
Senator Underwood gave census fig- I
tires to show that the total number of {
illiterates who would probably be en- |
titled to vote under his proposed refer- |
endum would be less than 4,000 out of ;
t total vote of 130,000. He would con- j
tine the voting in the District to male !
citizens over twenty-one years.
Senator Kern of Indiana offered an !
amendment extending the suffrage to j
women. j
Senator Underwood's Plan
for Referendum Here
Is Commended by Attorney
Senator Underwood, champion of the
proposed referendum of prohibition to
the people of the District, has received
a letter from Alexander Sidney Lanier,
an attorney of this qity. praising the
stand which Senator Underwood has
made in regard to the prohibition bill.
Mr. Lanier said, in part:
"Some members of Congress seem to
think that because the states they represent
are "dry" it is good politics, if
not a mandate to them, to impose prohibition
upon the iDstrict, irrespective
of the wishes of the people. There is j
no justice in such a contention, and it |
would be in violation of one of the i
most salutary and sacred principles in
our political economy, namely, the
right of local self-government?a principle
our honored President has frankly
avowed his adherence to in general,
and in regard to measures of this nature
in particular.
"This brings me to the question raised
in the debate as to the constitutional i
right of Congress to submit the ques- |
tion to the vote of the people. It is
contended that Congress cannot delegate
its power to legislate on this subject.
Such a contention is too puerile
for the serious consideration of any
one with even the most elementary
knowledge of our constitutional law.
A vote of the people of the District on
the question would be simply advisory
and no limitation upon the power of
Congress to act as it saw fit, irrespective
ot the vote, or surrender of its
power in the premises. It would be
no more a delegation of the legislative
power of the Congress than for Con- ;
gress to pass a bill on the favorable
report of one of its committees, made I
entirely' upon the representation of cit- i
tzens, concerning its merits in a public 1
hearing before the committee.f
HALF-AND-HALF
SYSTEM RETAINED
IN DISTRICT BILL
Supply Measure Reported to
the House Recognizes Obligations
of United States.
TOTAL OF $13,455,829.66
PROVIDED FOR EXPENSES
Proposes Change in Law Relating to
Assessor's Office?New License
Bureau Created.
The retention of the half-and-half
system of appropriation is the most
important feature of the District appropriation
bill presented to the House
today by Representative Page, in
charge of the measure, as -hairman of
the subcommittee of the House appropriations
committee. The big supply
bill, carrying provisions for the maintenance
of the city of Washington for
the fiscal year 1918 in the sum of
{13.455,829.66, is written exactly as
Congress intended it should be written
when the present form of District of
Columbia government was created under
the organic act of 18'78. The first
paragraph of the bill provides that the
sums named in the bill shall be paid
one-half from the District revenues
and one-half from the Treasury of the
United Slates.
Strategic Point Gained.
After several years of close battling
on4 the subject of the half-and-half
that vital principle of the National
Capital's birthright has gained an important
strategic victory through not
being ousted from the appropriation
bill at the start. Attempts to abolish
the half and half, made ixi previous
years in the appropriations committee
or from the floor, have always bean
successfully met by members of Congress
who understood the situation.
After the long and strenuous debates
on tlfe subject congressional leaders
have now concluded it is extremely unfair
to rob the Capital city of its promised
support from the federal government.
The position of leaders of the House
who have an interest in seeing this bill
go to the Senate unaltered will be the
obvious one that in years past no adequate
nor equitable substitute for the
; half and half has been presented; and
that unless some adequate and equitable
substitute can be supplied there is
no justice in destroying the long established
and successful principle. This
is stated upon high authority; and any
motion to knock out the half and half
in the debate on this section will be
met with the answer that before the
principle is cast aside a well digested
[ ana proper suosuiuie iriu?L uc p???
! sented.
j The bill ignores the Commissioners'
recommendation to apply the surplus
I District revenues to the District debt.
There will be $7,000,000, in round numbers.
of District surplus moneys in the
Treasury when the surplus under the
present bill is actually in existence.
Horizontal Raise Omitted.
The tiuestion of a horizontal raise for
all District government employes has
1 been left out of the bill entirely. Owing
to the fight on the 5 and 10 per
cent raise section of the legislative
bill, the appropriations committee has
not reported a similar salary-raising
section for District employes. Bui
there is everv indication that thje District
bill will be so amended on the
floor of the House as to provide for a
series of horizontal raises for all employes
not specifically raised by the
measure. There are many specific salary
increases provided already.
Amount Less Than Estimated.
The sum of $13,455,829.66 includes the ^
water department. The current act
carries 513,336,681.10. The Commissioners'
estimates, however, asked for |16t961.092.66.
v
A complete analysis of the figures is
shown in the report on the bill, appended
further on.
The present District bill is one of
the most interesting measures of local
character ever seen in Congress. It is
interesting in the new things it recommends
to Congress, and interesting in
the projects it fails to carry. The
Commissioners asked for several
changes of great importance, and In
general they received all they asked
in the way of new legislation, but did
not get all thev asked for in the way
of appropriations.
New Items in the Bill.
A brief resume of the new matter In
the bill includes:
A proposed change in the law regarding
the assessor and assistant assessors;
a repeal is asked for the liw
providing tliat the assessor and
sistant assessors shall not be removed
except for inefficiency, neglect of duty
or malfeasance in office. Also, the bill
provides a transfer to the tax collector's
office of all "records and accounts
in any way relating; or pertaining
to the bookkeeping, accounting
and collection of taxes." It provides
that the tax collector shall send out
the tax bills.
A new license bureau is created in
the bill and all municipal licenses
shall be issued therefrom.
It provides that all deeds registered
shall state the true consideration between
buyer and seller.
Annual licenses for motor vehicle*,
at prices ranging from $2 to $5.
Legislation allowing condeinnatl u
juries an unlimited urea in which to
assess benefits.
Limits compensation under tne public
utilities commission to $4,000. So person
shall be employed by the commission
at any higher rate, according to
the bill.
A new highway plan for the section
known as "the Barry farm."
Grants leave of absence and pay on
holidays to per diem employes of tho
District.
Intangible Property Law.
Makes office and administrative ar?
rangements to carry out the intangible
personal property law.
Requires street car companies tp
take down poles on Georgia avenue
and Water street.
Creates a new traffic bureau in the
police department; provides a new captain,
a new lieutenant, three sergeants,
and adds ten privates to the force.
Pay of members of the fire department
is reclassified, with a generous increaae
all through the department, with the
creation of the grade of sergeant. , ]
Provides a public comfort station .on
A
M. . '
