THECNR1LD
NO. 3709. WEATasa-cLoMT. WASHINGTON, D. C., MONDAY, DEACERER 18, -1916. ONE CENT
STILL AWAITING
ALUES' ANSWER
Uoyd George Not Expected
to Tel Attitude on Peace
for Some Days.
epeal Cabis to The Washeae rak.
London. Dec. 17.-David Lloyd George
likely will be prevented from appearing
in the house of commons Tuesday whon
tt was expected he would dedne, broadlY
the peace terms ot the entente allies. Mr.
Lloyd George was declared today to be
unable to speak above a whisper. De
spite the efforts of several physiclans. it
was stated that it would be several days
before the new prime minister would be
able to appear in public.
I the event the premier Is unahe Is
address Parliament Tuesday. it is be
lieved likely the session will be pgt
poned.
Neutrals Marking Time.
Anticipating that it will be several days
before Lloyd George. England's new
prime minister, will be able to appear be
fore Parliament to announce the attitude
of his country toward Germany's peace
proposals, neutrals are holding in abey
ance any steps they may contemplate to
assist in ending the war. That the skel
eton of a plan already has been informal
Iv discussed among representatives ol
neutral countries in the United States is
made apparent by frequent conferepces
held in Washington in the last few days.
It was indicated last night that all the
neutral powers will confer ytth Presl
dent Wilson or Secretary LAraing before
taking any steps whatsoever. It was de
,ared hy a person in close touch with
the White House that the President will
make no move until after the British
premier has spoken. and even then he
likely will wait until the reply of the al
lie has reached Germany.
Intimations that the German offer tc
discuss peace would not be flatly reject
ed by the allies have been received Ir
Washington. While these were of an in
formal nature, they were sufficiently
strong to convince the President that a
more opportune occasion for action by
this government would in all probability
be presented after the receipt of the al
lied answer to the German note.
Nothing to Gass.
It was argued that if the allies were
going to give due consideration to the
German proposal, nothing could be gain
ed now by urging them to do so. and, ir
fact. such actien by the United Statei
might put the administration where 11
would be more difficult to offer mediation
or suggestions for a conference at a latei
stage.
It was stated positively that the Pree
Ident has definite plans which he hopem
to put into effect. mad that he is optimis
tie regarding the possibility of some good
coming frem the Germen offer.
Oe of the reanom that aetagresl
dent Wilson not to make any suggues
tions in tranmaitting the proposals to the
allies is stated to be the feet that, the
allies believe a flat rejection by them of
the German offer would turn sympathy
against them In the neutral countries.
Guarded expressions of State Depart
ment officials indicated that if Lloyd
George does not expressly warn neutrals
that action by them at this time will be
considered unfriendly, steps will imme
diately be taken to make the best possi
ble use of the situation for the promotion
of peace.
MORGAN PARTNERSHIP
FOR THOMAS COCHRAN
Bank President Who Started Penni
less, Gets Plum.
4"y the isteesatleel News Service.1
N. -- York. Tec. 17.-A "artnership ir
+t, Irm of .1 . R Morgrn & Co.-that blu
-i"n for which young tinanciers striv
h. been conferred ipon Thomas Coch
president of the Liberty Nationa
I 1'. Mlorgan & Co. made the announce
.nt today.
'tr. -Ioran nill becone a Morgar
rartoron .Ianuarv 1 te is 45 year
W a Vale man. who rose from the ranki
e -hout money or influence. Henry P
. I vid-o. of the Morgan firm. is said t(
la hRi an eye on" Mr. Cochran foi
'of:n tiMe.
'ehran's parets were New Yorkers
a ho moved to St. Paul. Minn.. where h4
w horn. In Vale he "made' the foot
'al leamt and Skull and Bones. Durini
hi- third year his father lost his fortune
Young (ochran worked his way througi
his fourth year. Seventeen years ago h
ame to New York with no money bu
ny amount of energy. Henry P. Dav
ison was vice president of the First Na
tonal Bank when he first met youni
'ohran. He picked two young men ti
help him organize the Astor Trust Com
rany. One of these was Thomas Coch
ran.
Hie was vice Iresident from 19107 unti
1Ill, and the company was very success
NuI Then he was offered the presidencl
of the Liberty National Bank. Under hij
direction it has since become the mos
profitable national bank in the Unitec
States.
BIAST IN AUSTRIA KILLS 14.
Copenhagen. Dec. 17.-Fourteen personi
were killed and seventy-seven othert
were injured by a violent explosion lasi
night at a munitions factory at Felix
dorf, a village of Lower Austria. In the
district of Wiener-Neustadt, says the
Neue Freis Presse. Several buldingrs i
the town were destroyec,
Chicago. Dec. 17.-Few who watched the
modest funeral possession accompanying
the body of John Miller to the cemeterl
today knew that he was none other thai
a man who for forty years had beena
"model sealo-keeper" of Chicago, Tet,
half a oamtry ago, his nae was know,
throughout the pugilistic world as the
eeuerer' of the famous English pris.
fighter, Jems Mace
Havan Dec. 17.-At the expiration et
the mes's ultimum at S o'doek yester'
d ay mernig a general strike cm the Ha
vana Central Railwa was begus. Trame
ha-' been paralysed. The electric plant
ba eutt of operation, the curreut in
many towns in Havana province was cut
str. PoiereaEjte Ue
Kewe Yew Oversk*os and
Unbrelas Handy for Snow;
AloSkates Are in Vogue'
Sharpen your skae.
The ice is hard enough to hold you un
less you weigh a ton or more. A good
niany lovers of the great winter pastime
were out yesterday 'on lakes and ponds.
cutting preliminary capers on the frosen
waters.
Keep your overshoes and umbrellas
hand , the snow hasn't forgotten how to
fafl yet. It is very probable' that a few
fistfuls of the white and flakey will show
er og the District this afternoon or to
night.
Clouds of various shapes and hues are
expected to sail overhead today and in
terqept the warm yellow rays of good old
beaming Sol. But despite the gray day
predicted by the man who regulates the
world's sprinkling apparatus, the four
winds and the temperature. Washington
folk can steal a little pocket edition of
sunshine from the knowledge that the i
thermometer is not expected to register a
fall.
Surgeon Is Good Samaritan,
But He Braves Snow Vainly
New York, Dec. 17.-Dr. Anthony Avata,
an ambulance surgeon in St. Mary's Hos
pital, Jamaica, received a telephone mes
sage last night that a man had been
seriously burned at a tire at Rockaway
Boulevard and Haw Tree Creek road,
Woodhaven, L. I. He responded In a!
motor ambulance.
When two miles from Woodhaven the
physician and his driver ran into a snow
drift five feet deep and stalled. They got
out and trudged Iwo miles over snowy
fields to the scene of the fire. When they
arrived there the person who telephoned
to the hospital apologized. He said he;
had understood the injured man was
alive. Instead, the surgeon found that
Jacob Sutter, 66 years old. caretaker of
the burned barn, had almost been com
pletely incinerated.
Woman Stabs Negro Thug
On Street with Hat Pin
The police are on watch at all Wash
lngton hospitals, and as soon as a negro
appears at one 9f these institutions to
ask for treatment for a hat-pin wound
In his breast he will be given free lodg
ing in the District jail.
When Mrs. Bessie Veigler. 3341 Warden
street, left her home last night to visit
a neighbor, a colored man tried to snatch
her purse. Mrs. Veigler drew a long hat
pin, lunged at her assailant and stabbed
him in the chest. She is confident she in
flicted a serious wound. The wounded
negro tried to wrench the hand bag from
her, but Mrs. Veigler resisted. Finally
the negro ran away.
Santa Smokes a Cigarette;
- Burns Of Part of Beard
Cumberland. Md., Dec. 17.-Robert
"Quail" White, a young man who has
been impersonating Santa Claus for the
Salvation Army relief department, was
severely burned yesterday when the gray
beard of his false face took fire while he
was lighting a cigarette. He was steated
in a barber chair of the city hall shop.
White's cries brought Desk Sergt.
Thomas L, Hassan and Patrol Driver
Himmler from police headquarters near
by to the rescue.- Himmler dashed a pail
of water on White and extinguished the
blaze.
Don'ts for War Hospitals
Now Used in Great Britain
London, Dec. 17.-Considerable annoy
ance is caused by well-meaning friends
visiting wounded English heroes and ask
ing foolish and obvious questions. In
the East Leeds War Hospital there is the
following list of Questions which visitors
are requested not to ask:
Are you wounded?
How did you know you were wounded?
Did It hurt?
Which butts most-going in or coming
out?
Did the shel hit you?
Did you see any Germans?
How many did you kill?
Do you want to go back?
This Undertaker Conveyed
To Hospital in Own Hearse
San Francisco, Cal., Dec. 17-E. P.
Halsted. prominent and wealthy under
taker, was driven to San Francisco in his
own hearse, and taken to St. Luke's Hoe
pital In a dying condition.
Halsted left here to attend a funeral in
San Mateo. Near Daly City he left the
hearse to transact some busines and was
struck by a street car.
A Daly City physician pronounced him
I dead, and he was placed in the hearse.
Signs of life were discovered later, how
ever, and the hearse driver rushed his
vehicle to the hospital.
Crippled Youngster Makes
His Own Feet Out of Wilow
Emporia, Kan., Dec. 17.-Making his I
own feet is a part of the work done by
William Ashman. a Wamego boy, in ad
dition to his regular school work in the
normal at Emporia this year.
William was Injured on a railroad when
7 years old, losing his left leg. Since that.
time he has worn and outgrown several I
artificial legs and feet The last two of !
these have been replaced by articles of
his own make.
The wood which Ashman uses for his
new feet is willow.
Has Triplets at Age of 18;
And Her Husband Is Only 19J
Baltimore. Dec. 17.-Probably one of the
youngest mothers of triplets ever in this
city is Mrs. Iena Stocmnn who Is only
18 years oid. Three baby girns reoently
arrived at her home. Their father, Iaw
renee Stockmn. is but 19 tears old.
Mrs. Mary Herr, mother of Mrs. Stock
man, has Indirectly achieved a record of
her own. She Is only 34years old. The
other week she -was mdrly a mother;
now she has three grandchildren.
Wedded Year Age Today,
Presidnt WiBl Etrtain
Preaident Wilson will receive few, If
any, efliera today, the dirst anniversary
of his mnarriage to Mrs. Edith Solltog
Galt
No anaeuma--nmt has be.n made a, to
the plans the President and Mrs. Wilsen
have for the day, but it Is understoso
that they will upend the day .srreunded
by a famile eele,
Their pram M sub am l
CONGRESSRUSHES
BEFORE HOLIDAYS
Leaders Will Force Through
Supply Bills Before Christ
mas Adjournment.
Congress will 'Start today to clean up
for Christmas and the holiday recess.
The House will continue consideration of
appropriation measures. The legislative
judicial and executive bill and the huge
Supply measure for the government of
the District of Columbia will be passed.
The Senate will dispose of the Shep
pard prohibition bill and take up the
Townsend volunteer officers bill after
ward. '.
Prsent plans of Congressional leaders
call for a recess from Friday to Tuesday,
January 2. But both Senators and Rep
resentatives will begin the holiday exodus
early in the week, and by Friday it Is
expected that a majority of both houses
will be gone from Washington.
Action on President Wilson's legislative
program, including recommentiations for
railroad legislation will be postponed by
both Houses until after the recess.
Meantime the fight for prohibition will
occupy the center of the Congressional
stage. Senate 'dry" advocates are de
termined to force the Sheppard bill to
make Washington "dry to a vote as
soon as possible and before the week is
out they feel certain that the measure
will go through the Senate by a substan
tial majority. It will then go to the
House.
Senators will concentrate their fight an
an amendment to submit the prohibition
question to a referendum vote in the Dis
trict, which is complicated by a pro
posal to give. the women a vote on the
issue.
Failure to reach an agreement yester
day on a time for a vote on the bill in
dicated that the final disposition of the
measure will be delayed in the hope of
pushing the referendum idea ardd sub
stituting the Smoot bill which is much
more drastic than the Sheppard proposal.
Holidays Delay Senate.
The holidays will delay Senate action
on the railroad program, proposals for
universal military training, and the PresL.
dent's plan to legalize combinations of
American manufacturers and merchants
n the foreign trade.
On all of these matters Senate commit
tees will begin hearings soon after Con
gress reconvenes.
In the House the leaders will press the
routine program of supply bills, and may
break all records by passing four ap
propriation bills before Christmas. The
Indian bill has already been passed, the
egislative, executive and judicial appro
priation bill is under consideration, and
he District of Columbia and diplomatic
and consujar bills will be reported to the
House from committees today.
Majority l-ader Kithin said yestet6Ay
that he expected to dispose of al of
these measures before taking the holi
day recess.
Prohibition and suffrage fights will be
started in the House this week in pre
paration for the struggle for considera
tion of the universal suffrage and prohi
bition amendments to the ()mstitution
which will be taken up after the recess.
Pressure will be brought to bear on the
Rules Committee to bring out rules of
the consideration of both measures.
There will be little difficulty in offer
ing a rule for the prohibition amendment.
but a vote on the suffrage proposal may
be delayed.
SHIPWRECKED SAILORS
LANDED IN NEW YORK
Only Eleven of Fifty-one on Freighter
Po IX Rescued.
(By the Internatieal News Servile.)
New York. Dec. 17.-Eleven members of
the crew of the Spanish freighter Pio
IX. rescued from rafts during a howling
uorthwester on the night of December 4.
reached port on the Spanish liner Buenos
Aires.
The -Plo IX sailed from New Orleans
November 16, bound for Valencia. with
8,900 bales of cotton and a shipment of
staves. She had sixty-two men aboard.
and besides those brought to port today
eleven others are believed to have been
picked up by a French cruiser. The re
maining forty were drowned. The last
word from the Pio's wireless operator
was received by the Buenos Aires at 1
a. m. December 5. reading:
"We are sinking fast. Decks awash.
Giood-by.''
At great danger to the Buenos Aires.
Capt. Soria maneuvered near enough to
shoot a line to the Plo. The rope parted.
Three times he tried, and each time the
line broke. During the evening a light
was seen flashing from the surface of the
sea. A boat was lowered and two of the
Plo's crew were rescued. They had leap
ed into the water with a companion lad
der for support. Later another light was
observed and nine more men were res
cued from an improvised raft.
FLAMES DRIVE WOMAN.
TO DIVE INTO STREET
Other Occupants of Blazing House
Flee Across Roofs,
BSpel to The' Washingtes Heral
New York, Dec. 17.-A woman's leap to
the street, the rush 4f a score of per
sons across roofs and down fire escapes
and rescues by firemen and policemen
marked an exciting tire in a five-story
tenement house at 1323 Third avenue to
day.
Three occupants of the house were in
jured. One of them, Mrs. Barbara Col
lins, U yedra old, is in the Reception Hoe
pital, suffering from a fracture of the
skull. Her condition is serious.
Mrs. Collins was awakened by exces
sire heat and found her roem on (he sec
ond floor ablase. She immediately ran
to., the window and, without hesitating
longer than a moment, plunged to the
street. Her head struck'the sidewalk.
Choe,1,was taes uncon
se fo the fourth floor of the build
lng by firemen. He in Flower Hospital,
suffering from the effects of inhaling
umoke.
~sUavten Clbasi 51 es
Herad Fight for Pay
icreams in Nubd
Developments yesterday In move
ment for increased salaries for
government and District employes.
1-Final arrangements completed
for big mans meeting at Conven
tion Hall tonight.
2-Representatives of organized
labor met at the A. F. of L. Build
ing and discussed ways and means
for advancing wage legislation.
SwCustodIaDn and Janitors' Un
ion of school employes adopt reso
lution of thanks to The Washing
ton Herald.
4-House leaders hope to have the
legislative, executive and judicial
bill carrying Jncreases passed by
tomorrow night.
6-Teachers' Union arranges for
mae. meeting at the new Central
High School tomorrow night, and
the Federal Employes' Union will
have a separate mass meeting
Wednesday night at National
Rifles' Armory.
GIFT TO WORKERS
Dying Woman Gives Estate'
(pr Phthisis Victims.
(by the Iaternaatienai liews Service.)
New York, Dec. 17.-Miss Martha
Hentschel, of Kingston, N. Y.. has just
given a fortune to the Garment Workers
of New York City. The fortune is re>
resented in a beautiful estate on the
heights overlooking the Hudson River,
near Kingston. It will be used to
endow a sanatorium for tubercular pa
tients in the garment trades.
Three years ago Miss Hentschel. as a
trained nurse, was caring for tubercular
patients when she contracted the disease.
tier light for life has been a losing one
and today her physicians declared she
probably would nlot live through the holi
days. Through Mitis Lillian Wahl, of the
Henry Street Settlement here, she learned
of the suffering among the Garment
Workers from the disease of which she
was dying. Examination has shown that
among the 16.000 workers, one out of .vcry!
101 i. suffering with the diseas,.
The Kingston estate is valued at SW6.
4' an-i g35.0 is to be spent on additional
hospital buildings. Each member of the
different local Garment Workers Unions
is to be taxed 1t a year and thus Miss
Hentschell's gift w!ill be self-supporting.
The sanatorium will be rady for occu
pancy hy May.
| Telegraph Tips |
Rochester. N. Y.. Dec. 17.-Edward An
drews, of Naples. has killed a gray wolf
which had been killing cattle and sheep
in his neighborhood for several weeks.
Honolulu, Dec. 17.-Advices received
here by cable from Australia state that
the government in control of outgoingj
cargoes has prohibited further coal ship
ments to the Hawaiian Islands.
Asheville, N. C.. Dec. 17.-Rear Admiral
John J. Hunker, retired. who served with
distinction under Admiral Sampson dur
ing the Spanish war, died at a sanitarium
here of heart disease.
Copenhagen. Dec. 17.-The Dagens Ny
heder says that the decision of the en
tente allies to discontinue the supply of
oil, paraffin, petrol and fishing tackle for
Danish fisheries has paralyzed the in
du4try.
Duluth. Dec. 17.-After operating con
tinuously in Duluth and on the Minnesota
ranges for a year the Industrial Workers
of the World will leave this part of the
country, it was said at I. W. W. head
quarters.
Montclair. N. J., Dec. 17.-In its review
of the conditions that attached to the
recent prevalence of infantile paralysis
here the Montclair board of health re
ports that the extraordinarily strict reg
ulations adopted proved valueless.
Pittsburgh, Pa.. Dec. 17.-Contracts for
seventy all steel barges of 1,000 tons ca
pacity and three towboats of 1.000-horse
power to be used in the coal trade on the
Monongahela River have been let by the
United States Steel Corporation.
Livingston. Mont., Dec. 17.-Sportsmen
estimated that 400 elk were killed just
outside the northern boundary of Yel
lowstone National Park during the last
two days of the season, which ha..just
clsed.
Paris. Dec. 17.-There have been revolu
tionary outbreaks In various parts of
Portugal, according to a Havas News
Agency dispatch from lUsbon, but an of
ficlal note declares that the uprising has
been everywhere entirely quelled and that!
Lisbon Is tranquil.
Houghton. Mich.. Dec .17.-The Canadian
steamship Arabia, which left Toronto for
Fort William. Ontario, nineteen days ago'
is fast in four inches of ice here. As tier
coal supply was exhausted in the slow
trip she may have to spend the winter
here.
Port Chester. N. Y., Dec. 17.-Mystery:
surrounds the death of John Hays, 65
years old, whose body we. washed ashore
from the Byranm River at lEast Port Ches
ter, Conn. Hays left his home, in Port
Chester. N. Y., last gednesday, it is
said.
Nyack, N. Y., Dec. 17.-The Borden Milk
Company has purchased several farms
in the town of Blooming Grove. Orange
County, and will stock the property with;
fine dairy cattle. It is reported also that
the milk company is negotiating fbr
Broad Acres, one of the largest dairies
in Rockland County.
Winsted, Conn., Dec. 17.-When rabbit
shooting. Arthur Richberg and Ray Bar
tIes were astounded by the actl~ns of'.
their dog, which kept circling a hemlock.
tree and looking upward. The sportsmen
upon investigating discovered a jack rab
bit sitting in a crotch of the tree aheut.
six feat f rem the ground.
LnoDec. 17-George H. Pownall,
piden of the Institute of Bankers,
died suddenly in London at $he age of
67 years. He was- formerly -manager of
Winliam Demcon' a enk, Ltd.. and was a
promeut.. wrie. en I-.f.ama taWa...
U. EMPLOYES
READY FOR VOTE
Champions of Higher Salaries
Prepare for Debate in
House Today.
Government employes yesterday lined
up their forces for the fight for increased
salaries which will begin when the
House meets at noon today.
Representatives of the Federal Em
ployes' Union and other organised bodies
interested in the legislation met yester
day at the A. F. of L. Hall and put the
finishing touches on the amendment they
"ilI seek to have added to the legisla
tive, executive and judicial bill.
Representative Keating, of Colorado,
will introduce this. It will provide a
much larger graded increase than that
of 5 per cent for employee receiving
9l.20m or less and 10 per cent for employes
between SL30 and SLO, which was the
increase reported by the House Appro
priations Committee. Employee receiv
ing less than 1.ice a year will get an in
crease of 20 ter cent, and the rate is
graduated downward to 5 per cent for
those receiving V2500.
Should the Keating amendment fail
other salary scales will he proposed. Rep
resentative Austin will offer the Penrose
Austin measure. with increases as high
as 25 per cent for lower-paid employes.
Another amendment which is ready for
introduction fixes $2.50 as the minimum
for all adult employee of the government
Fear top Noeas Bill.
Parliamentary experts yesterday point
rd out that unless the Nolan amendment
fxing 83, day as the minimum for all
%dult government employes was skillfully
Irawn. it would be thrown out on a point
3f order. The amendment can only fix
the rate of increase for the employes in.
eluded In the bill under consideration and
any general legislation will not be in
Yrder.
The California Representative knows the
situation. however, and his amendment
will be worded so that only theee em
ployee be included. It is generally un
terstood that the House will enact the
legislation into all apropriation measures
If it is arepted in the bIll under consid
'ration.
Members of the House are leaving the
rity In large numbers and it was decided
by some of the leaders yesterday to push
action on the legislative bill so that it
can Ie colmpleted by Tuesday night, even
though it is necessary to have a night
session. Departing members were anxious
to get "Pairs" but very few were avail.
ible last night.
With many members anxious to intro
dure amendments the prospect of pro
longed debate on section 4 looms large.
Some advocates of higher salaries woti
r'ONTINtUED I'N PAGg NV&K
FIND NEiRO IN BED IN
REP. KENT'S LOTHES
Detectives Raid Home and Recover
Quantity of Stolen Property.
Sprawled in bed, with a suit of clothing
belonging to Representative William Kent
doin service as a lounge costume, Grover
Sstten, colored, %as arrested early yes
terday on charges of housebreakingP
depredation on private property and as
Failt with a dangerous weapon.
stolen jewelry. clothing. oil paintings.
Svi!%rware and other articles were found
In the home at 12fG U Street northwest.
Staten. who is 31 years old. is believed
to he the man who tired several shots at
Policemen Edwards and Jeffries when
surprised in a vacant house on R street
several days ago and then jumped from
a second-story window. He escaped on
a bicycle.
Ida Staten, a sister of the prisoner. and
who lives in Georgetown. is urder arrest
on a charge of receiving stolen property.
She had remodeled two gowns stolen
from the Kent home to her own measure.
After the arrest of Staten by Sergt.
J. Willard Green and Detectives Scrivner.
Davis and Scott. of the Seventh precinct,
the California Representative identified
the walking suit worn by the prisoner
as his own and also claimed a $100 dia
mond ring, a W6l watch and a $100 paint
ing found in'taten's home. Two patrol
wagons full of unidentified loot were
carted from the place.
Representative Kent's home was robbed
last week.
"QUEST FOR FLATTERY
OIlRLS'BESETIN SIN"
Rev. J. E. Briggs Delivers Sermon on
"Young Women's Temptations."
''.ove of flattery is one of the worst
evils of the young women of the present
generation." declared Rev. John E.
Briggs. of the Fifth Baptist Church, in
his sermon. "Young Woman's Tempta
tions." last night.
"To attain this flattery they will run
into debt. buying clothes and ornaments
far beyond their income, running up large
accounts at the stores. Ther, is only
one end for such a course and it is very
plain. I need not go into it."
"InsincerIty is one of their chief char
acteristics," said Dr. Brigga. "Their
whole life is dominated by frivolous
pleasures, and they till do all in their
power to - he among the hright lights,
with never a thought about the serioul
side of existence,
"They will not make good wives, be.
cause they have not the proper training.''
HOT OIL RTHES TMAIN.
Iowa Falls, Iowa, Dec. 17-Three hun
dred gallons of hot oil were hurled over
an Illinois Central pessenger train here
today when the locomnotive of the train
struck an oil tank wagon. The tank ex
ploded. Joeqph Taylor, driver of the
wu son, was fatally burned and the crew
of tihe locomotive slightly burned.
New York, Dec. 17.-Dumb amae
have shared in an estate of more thee
SB0.0P, according to an accounting flied
yesterdasy in the Surrogate's Court by
Elly M. Ewen, of Kingburige, and
Homer I. Osein, of Waquet, 3.i==
Rmm-ims Victeries Give
Grm PMh Soppy
Of Grain md Feedshda
(y te ater..ti.-. new serviee.,
Berlin (via Sayville wireless). Dec. 17.
The Budapest newspaper Taa J.sg pub
ilashes an interview with the President of
the German war food office, Tortilositi
von Batcoki. who is quoted as saying:
"The poor German potato crops were
a heavy blow for the moment; neverthe
less there was no misery, but only an un
Pleasant scarcity whilcif. however. was
remedied even before the Rumanian vie
tory.
"Now we are amply provided with po
tatoes and grain which in Rumania fell
into our hands in such quantities that we
can simply feast until the next crops.
Germany as well as Austria-Hungary and
also Bulgaria and Turkey will recele
a considerable share."
VILLA THREATENS
Chihuahua City in Panic When
Bandit Warns of Visit.
487' the lattervateas t ews Ser-ee.i
El Paso. Dc,. I.- Chiushu (ity is in
a state of panile. Villa has sent a threat
to reoccupy the city Christmas Day. It
is recalled that he fixed September 3 as
the date of his first occupation and kept
his promise.
The popular-e is making frantic efforts
to evacuate, but only military trains are
operating. Glen. Murguia, in command of
the garrison at Chihuahua City, has four
wood-burning locomotives, all the rest
being oil burners and there is no oil avail
able.
Late tonight it was said that Villa is
making his headquarters at Creel, on the
Orient Railway,. a hundred mile's south
east of Elvalle. Pershing's lowest outpost.
Villa detachments are holding Santa Ro
sata and Jiminer. and are advia:cing on
Torreon and Parral.
Vila's overtures to the adiiinistration
wE be completely ignored. rhis state
ment was made at the War 14 partment
last night. unumcially, but as represent
ing the view@ of the d'lpartme-nt.
The conference asked to *, ) villa wit Ih
Gen. Hugh I. Scott. -hie' of Staff of ithe
American army, would he ridiculous. it
was said. With the portion of the arTv
under Gen. Pershing still in Mexien. with
the instructions to "get Villa' still un
changed, it was pointed out it would he
nothing short of ludicrous for the rank
Ing officer of the United States military
establishment to confer with the Mexican
leader, who is regarded by the adminitra
tion as nothing more than a bar dit
leader.
WETY TO FOIL BUAS.
Poughketpaie. Dec. 17.-Wealthy resi
dents of this district. in fear of buralar.
h4Ye orr.nized the l'pper Hudson Pro
tective Society,. which flied articles of
incorporation yesterday.
Among the men in the organization are:
Vincent Astor. Robeit P. Huntington.
Frederick Vandetbilt. Willianm R. luins
more and John T. Roosevelt. The direc
tore are: Warren lse-lano. of Tarrytown:
Col. Archibald Itogers. of Hyde Park:
Tracy Dows. of Rhinebeek: Herman Liv
Ingston. of Greendale. and Thomas Hunt.
of Clermont.
FALSE TEETH CAUSE ARKRT.
KenoSha. Wis. Dec. 17-Pat Murphy, a
Cleveland man, lost his false teeth in
Kenosha. Murphy was engaiwed in a fight
with Joe Gallagher In a saloon. and Gal
lagher was stabbed in the back with a
knife.
As Mturpiy fled from1 the saloon hi<
fals' ti-th fell out. and thoy ere tur-ed
over to the pol, as a clew to tile identi' .
Murphy found that he could not get alor g
without the teeth any longer and he
came to the tolice and made an appeal
for them.
TAMES WILD DUCKS.
Junc-tion ''ItKan.. li-. 17--1obert
Rose. a t'nion Pacitie (gi . r If this
city, has solved the hight e-st of lii ma.
so far as eggs are conecrned. Instead
of maintaining a flock of hens that go
on strike when their product reaches -
cents a dozen. Mr. Rose has a dozen
"tame" wild ducks.
The collection r presents "e..,I Iar'S
of hunting. all of the ducks h:.%ing bet,
slightly wounded. They lay fri-om eight
to ten eggs daily durirg the w ban whell
the hens are taking their vacation
SNOW FATALLY BLINDS.
Pottsville. Pa.. De,. 17. - - Walkimi
through the cold and snow. he stated to
a neighbor. to have funds to pur ham- a
Christmas gift for hie n ife. who is in a
hospital. Paul Hjeadock was killed 'In the
railroad at St. t'lair today. With his
head down. he did otit see or hear an ap
proaclilng train.
Benjamin Long. of Auburi. who %as
injurid in a Snowstorm and ahose arm
was amputated at the Pottsville iospital,
died today.
SANTA IN AN AIRPLANE.
Philadelphia. Dec. 17-I-Santa Claus must
become modernized. Owing to the tre
I mendous area he must cover he i II make
lis appearance in an airplane at the flist
annual Christmas party of the Walnut
Street Business Association. which will
be held on the roof of the Bellevue-Strat
ford next Wednesday evening.
The wonderful prosperity of the %ear
makes it necessary for him to have sev
eral assistants, who will likewise be
modernised, to the extent of making theit
entree In automobiles.
VAULT D00E WEIGHS 40 TONS.
New York, Qec. 17.-One of the largest
and strongest bank vaults in the worldl
will be put into operation today. It ia in
the new UFIfth avenue oSce of the Guar
anty Trust Company of New York. on
the southeast corner of Fi'rty-thirdt Street.
The vaults in the Morgan and Guaraaty
Trust buildings downtown are the onty
tiro that equal It in sise.
The omtn door of this vault weighi
nearly forty ton.
Federsaburg. Nd.. Dec. 1.-Travel Ii
this sactica by autonmobile ad team tI
SUSPended owing to the heavy fail oi
snow. A tarse umnbr af atomnobila
and many teamns are stalled enight hen
sa at Wiliansberg. owm to the heavt
drifts. T. Coleman du Posit. of Winming.
ton. wthile en his way ta attend a fash
lonable we Viag at Camrbridge, reccher
m~liaaet, wheg'g hi mab.m hebean
*med tea mow i3as am an aa i .
FRENCH UNDERGO
CEASELESS FIRE
Germans Bombard Poaston
Taken in Recent Spectacu
lar Advance at Verdun.
spcial cable to ia w=anns-ai siamd.
Pari. LJ-c. 17.-The French ins at
Vacherau Ville. Besonvaux. and &aOW
Chamberette Farm, won by the Fi5ch
in theit big onslaught Friday, were bN
herded by the Germans today. The lee
was kept up ceaselessly. The war e49n1
reports only minor damage done.
Attacks also were directed at the
French trenches in the St. Mihiel M
tor, near Chauvo Court, but the Toeateo
were driven back by the hot berrser
tire of the defenders. An attempt to
make a raid In the Chammgne maan
also was frustrated.
Reports from the western frout tel at
attenilts by the British to drive the Qer
man. back near iannes Camps, north et
th# Arere. a little more than five omes
aLoe the northern tip of the allied at
tacking front on the tomme and A.or
TWe repult of the attacks was not stated
in the Irawtin official reports tonight.
It it Ielieved here that the attack may
prea.:e a sudden offensive in fore by
the British. similar to that launched by
the Frer-h at Verdun.
Aleug Heade4-.Mne Preat.
Along the uhole 100-mile front in
Nrthenstern Rumania. from Buseu to
the 1la, k Sea. the armies of Gen. von
Fvlkenhan iand Field Marshal voa
.1w" konen pibed onward in the direc
tion of Moldavia and Besmarabia during
!h. !a"t thirty-si hours, the Germa
war oftl-- announced. A bulletin issued
by Ii. Ii, toni,:ht stated that the bulk of
the Ti uten for,-es have crossed the Buseg
RIver and the lower Calma Julul.
Lleven hundred and fifty additional
prisoners were taken, and the booty of
the last two dav Includes nineteen loco
motites. 4n, railroad cars. -mostly
laden.- as well as "innumerable vehicles."
A Russian war office statement issued
todnay reported a check of the Teuton
advance along the Buzeu Rimnicu Barat
Railway and in the region of BEatogu.
The mention of this latter place, how
- Ier. i, an indirect admission that the
inv-ading center Is now only thirty-two
ib1- -outhwet of the Rumanian Dan
ite port Bri-ile
In th, tibrudja the loss of Tetmaele
"Illaz. to the Tetonv is -onceded by
Pletroograd.
The Gnerma.n high omimAnd does not
Irp.' t the Ru,-ians to allow the in
vadeis to iarr- the campaign into BSe
serabeis with the same ease and swiftness
that marked the sweep through Remeeda.
This is indcated by the coecluding paa
sage of today's Rerlin secount whIk.
aftr statnns that the northern part of
I,. ftohrudja had been reached, a tkt
"retetance is expected' here.
Ardently Coveted Pee.
Bessarabin is one of Russia's most ar
dently eoxeted trizes in this war. Its
conquest hy the Teutons would mean the
loss of 'odessa and the turning of the
whole Russian southern front. in the
wooded Carpathians. Bukovina and
Galicia. Defense lines of the moat pow
erful nature are belleved to have been
built hv the Russians ever since the men
ace of a Teuton attack in this area first
loomed large.
The Volh-ynian battle front suddenly
hobbed up again in today's official re
pcrts. To the north of the vital railway
sector hetween Koveland Lutska, Bran
denburg reserves. four battalions-4.00
nien strong-assumed the offensive and
captured a Russian position of about 100
meters. taking four officers and NO men
I Prisoner. The attacks were directed
Against Vh-,-hi Pobk and Maly Porsk.
twr forlilied tillages about half way be
tweeti, ttsk and kovl. Petrograd ef
ficial.y admitted the loss of one trench.
statira that all previous assaults were
hr atcn off.
A 4;erman "tank* bombarded Ruseian
teneh.-. near the %illage of Kabarevo.
Stxty pri-oners were taken by the Musco
,ites it the rapture of a height in the
wooded t-aroathians. Petrograd an
norunced lieri reported a local advance
ir. the lzui Valley.
BARON WITH $5U6,UM
HELD ABOARD STEAMER
Immigration Officials Bar Gates to Ro
ert E. Oppenheim. of Panis.
48y @be sweermatiemal %elm *eurvte.)
Ntw Yior. i,-. 17.-Raron Robert E.
(V; cinwi. of Paris, with securities and
ca;!sh in l, Iteossersion valued at more
than fim.* . nas held aboard the Steam
Ier Noordan toda h the immigration of
fictals ol nrrie-s from Washington.
The bAr, s-eied surprised at his
treatment. And after he had been locked
in hrs tti room e-aid that he felt sure it
was A ae of mitaken identy. He add
ed that he uar well known in financial
circkl. i Pas t and that his father had
hen connected with the Paris banking
house of the R1o1hr-chiIds.
"I caime her, tril pattly for a rest." be
aid. "as imy heth h7 not been good. I
1ad one or tw, omlall buiness matters
to attend to and I had planned to remain
two months in Floitda. This situation 10
most unfort uate. but I feel certain that
all will be explained in the morning and
I shall not he further delayed.''
lIr. .lohn A. Shelito. member of a-ma
i<'an Steel Contmtany. was also a pars.o
1 get on the Noordam. Hei said he knew
the heron very welt and could not tundst.
stand why he should have bees helMe
the liner.
RHER FOR TOWN GUUTB CULY.
IBerlin. I te. 17.--If the beer sholw
gets anns eorse Berlin may decide to
adopt the plan already In foros in a no
ber of Sawon and Thturinglan des.n
where only a small percentage aft
peacetime quantum now gets to theS.v6
Ian drinkers. The Saxof plan Is to arv
beer only to straalled "'Stamn" uut
guests w ho always eat--and always
drink--at one restaurant.
BERTAIN REOUL&TU O.
London. D~ec. 17.-Owing to the @@
ties in the boot trade, it had bern ea
pected that the ministry of mumatisms
would shortly Lalke oter all boot and shoe
,acttte.i. It w-as stated tonight, hew
ever. t that the mnanufactunres ad th
jethad a=reed am -a mamat
