i METAL PRICES' "ffi"f g it dYXil t 4"R E CITY ED1TI0N l
I New York, Dec. 18.: Silver, 76 5-8c; 7111 Ikl I V CACl' 1 lV VV I --0 , Ml
Hi , lead, $7.6257.875; spelter, $10.00 ilJ ' I S tI rW T f V V X W W "T WEATH ER Utah : Fair Tonight : !
Hi: 11.00; copper, S32.0033.50. f and Tuesday Except Snow Tuesday , 1
Kflj y j J 1 ' - In Northwest Portion; Warmer Tues- 11
Bli Li ; ; r . W v . .i ' day In West Portion. ; I
II . ' ' ' ; ' " " , ' FEARLESS. INDEPENDENT. PROGRESSIVE NEWSPAPER,- , ; i J
M Forty-SlxthWear-No. 312. Price Five Cents. OGDEN CITY, UTAH, MONDAY EVENING, DECEMBER 18, 1916. Entered as Second-Class Matter at th e Postofflco, Ogden, Utah jli
Lloyd-George" Will Discourage Peace Talk
General Scoff Urges
Universal Liability
to Military Training
Arraigns Volunteer System as Extravagant, Inef
j ficient and Dangerous United States Must
! Be Made Immune From Attack.
Washington, Dec. 18. Advocates
and opponents of a system of univer
j sal training for military service to
t replace the volunteer system as the
; j mainstay of the nation's defense, had
I a hearing today before the senate
, I military committee on Senator Cham
, berlaln's bill for universal training
i which is supported by the army gen-
eral staff.
While representatives of organiza
tions opposed to the bill, headed by
Walter L. Fisher, former secretary of
( the interior, gave their reasons for
; opposing it. Major -General Scott,
chief of staff of the army, detailed to
ILl-i LUlUlUlllCU 11 i.1 J Lilt (j, V 1-1 i. i mull
considered the volunteer system whol
ly broken down, inefficient and use
less and urged that It be discarded
for a universal system of liability to
training and service.
Scott Discloses War Confidences.
General Scott, disclosing much of
the army war college material hith
erto regarded as confidential, shows
that the army general staff now bc
lleveB that instead of 500,000 avail
able men, which it considered suffi
cient as a start to defend the coun
try against invasion, the country
should have 1,500,000 fully trained
men at the beginning of war, with a
like number ready to follow in 90
days. The change is based on the
development of the British army, the
organization of great Canadian forces
and the British alliance with Japan.
With such a force available, the .
army general staff, General' Scotte'
said, considers the United States
practically immune from such an at
tack as military strategists believe
might be expected from the victorious
set of powers in the European war.
Fisher for Adequate Preparedness.
' Mr. Fisher declared himself in fa
' vor of adequate preparedness. '
"I believe," he said, "there is no
higher duty than to provide for ade
j quate military preparedness. But
there is a radical difference between
a military policy for defense and ag
gressive policy. If we are going to
defend the Monroe doctrine in its
broadest sense, we are embarking on
a military impossibility."
To provide a first line of defense,
Mr. Fisher suggested that the pay of
the army be doubled, that civic train
ing which would fit the men for civil
life be made compulsory and that, as
rapidly as they could be trained, men
liable for duty in war.
"The plan proposed here is to adopt
' universal training for the sake of its
; civic by-product, for it is argued that
I universal training will give greater
j civic efficiency. Why not turn this
I right around. If you'll adopt civic
discipline for the sake of its military
! by-product, you'll carry the country
I and you can't carry it otherwise."
General Scott for University Training.
1 Major-General Scott, chief of staff of
; the army, told the senate military
committee today that the army general
i staff recommended without apology
J that the volunteer system be discarded
because "the time has come when
this country, unless it intendes to
. avoid war at any cost, must resort
; to universal liability to military traln
' ing and services."
: Arraigning the volunteer system as
extravagant, inefficient and dangerous,
i the chief of staff told the committee
; that the universal training would be
democratic, reliable, efficient and
economical and within a few years
practically render the United States
immune from attack.
"It would be democratic," he said,
:' "because the burden of national de-
fense woould fall equally upon all cit
izens. It would make it impossible
for any man or group of men to trade
t' nnnn tho nntSnn'c Ti rrOKK5 1 fa t tllTlG
I; of war. The system would be reli
t able because It would produce each
year the number of men necessary to
I be trained. It would be economical be
' cause it would be based upon recce
s' nition by the people of the duty of the
i individual to render personal service
i and in carrying it into effect the gov
's ernment would not have to compete In
s the labor market. It would bo efflc
l lent because it would enable us to pre-
pare adequately for war before war
. comes."
j Failure of Recruiting.
i At the ouset General Scott pointed
Sir out that the Mexican crisis had failed
& to recruit many national guard organ
s' lzations even to their peace strength.
S "The failure Bhould make the whole
a people realize that the volunteer does
? not, and probably will not, either give
us the men we need in peace or for
? aervice in war," Bald he. Reviewing
f the Intensive training which European
? and other nations received, he de
" clared that if American troops ever
M were to compete with highly trained
i and splendidly disciplined forces they
' would require training and discipline
at leaBt equal to that of their oppon-
Lessons of European War.
The lessons of tae.Euroftean wax.
the general . said, had demonstrated
that a higher standard of training and
discipline were required than was pop
ularly considered before, and most of
the European nations for that reason
found them they could not develop
them in less than two years with the
colors.
"It should be obvious," said he, "that
192 hours training prescribed for the
national guard is utterly inadequate
to prepare this force for war serv
ice." Change in Estimates.
For war with a first class power the
general staff had previously estimated
tiiciL ouu.uuu tuny equippeu troops
should be ready at the outbreak and
that 100,000 should be available in
ninety days. In view of the lessons of
the war, the general was of the opin
ion that these numbers should be
tripled and that 500,000 fully equipped
and ready troops should be available
with another 1,500,000 to follow in
ninety days.
"This is due," said he, "to the fact
that one of the powers involved in
the war and whose territory extends
the whole length of our northern front
ier has increased its army from a
relative small force to a strength ap
proximating that of the other great
European powers. Due to the fact
that our northern neighbor is largely
on Island empire, a great portion of
any trained force it may possess can
be spread for use In a distant theater
operations because being an island
empire at (he control of the sea gives
it practical Immunity from invasion
where troops would have to be trans
ported across the sea.
Alliance With Oriental Nation.
"It should be pointed out, also, that
our northern neighbor is in alliance
with a powerful Oriental nation an
other island empire and for the same
reason when acting in alliance with a
power which has control of the sea,
has ability to send its army of 2,225,000
men to any part of the world without
danger of invasion.
U. S. Practically Defenseless.
"I think a mere statement of these
facts make it clear that at present
we are practically defenseless before
the veteran armies of our northern
neighbors and could easily be crushed
by the existing coalition of the island
empires.
"I have said enough by way of illus
tration only, to make it clear that if
we are menaced by one of these pow.
ers alone, having lost control of the
sea, we should need more troops for
defensive purposes that have entered
into the popular conception of our
military problems heretofore.
Balance of power.
"A factor which in the past played
a part in protecting us from recent
aggressions by any of the great
nations in Europe, in spite of our com
paratively defense condition was the
so-called balance of powor. When the
European ends there wil still be two
groups of powers which will permit
the superior group to hold the inferior
group in balance with only a portion
of its force and will enable it to hold
the remainder ready for action out
side of Europe. It is manifest that
if a coalition of the great powers, as
they existed on August 1, 1914, were
to make war on us we could have
been invaded by very large forces
within about month from the dec
laration of war.
"While a war waged against us by
an alliance may in the future be a
possibility, it is not a probability, and
it is believed that If wo provide an
adequate army to defend tho country
against any single nation, the proba
bility of a war between the United
States and a coalition of powers would
grow even more remote."
Twelve Months Minimum.
After having discussed reasons by
which the general staff believes
twelve months intensive training is
the minimum to prepare troops for
war, General Scott stated at length
why the staff recommended that no
further reliance be placed on tho vol
unteer system and urged universal
liability to military training and ser
vice. None of the nations of the world,
except the United States alone and
China, rely on volunteers to defend
their national existence. He recount
ed tho failures of the volunteer system
in the revolutionary war, the war of
1812 and how It failed both the Con
federacy and the Union in the civil
war.
System la Ineffective.
"The system is Ineffective," ho said,
"because under it we must wait for
war to come before preparing our de.
fense. "We must wait for an eraer
goncy before beginning to raise, train
and equip tho vast armies which war
with any first class power or coalition
would render necessary. A nation that
is so short sighted with respect to its
man power cannot be expected to
looked fax in the future with respect
to munitions and supplies.
J . "If universal liability to .military
training and service wore ordained it
would mean only that the people, as a
whole, have, throughftheir representa
tives, reeognized the duty of tho indi
vidual to prepare himself to defend his
country and to defend it in case of
need."
The president believes it is diffi
cult to solve the question through
federal legislation for the reason that
it is practically impossible for fed
eral statutes to meet local conditions.
Major-General Wood, commander
of the department of the east, told
the committee nothing could have
been more pronounced that the com
plete inefficiency of the recent mili
tla mobilization on the Mexican bor
der. Urging intensive military training
aB the only means by which the
United States can, procure a much
needed and adequatenational defense.
General Wood referred to the Mexican
border militia mobilization to empha
size his recommendations. '
Mobilization Complete Failure.
"You have seen the result of the
recent mobilization of the militia on
the border," said General Wood, who
had much to do with the work. "It
was the most terrific and complete
failure ever attempted on that line.
Nothing could be more pronounced
than Its complete Inefficiency. There
Is practically no military defense for
this country today. We are dealing
in consideration of this proposed uni
versal training, with a matter of na
tional life saving. Universal training
Is the only way In which we will over
get an adequate military defense In
this country. It is anti-militaristic
and purely democratic. We must get
.v ..uu to"-1- ', H"'""1'
General Wood's Proposal.
General Wood's proposal was that
every young man physically fit for
military Service should be subjected
in his ninteonth year to six months
of intensive military training which
would be equivalent to about eighteen
months of training as now given in the
regular army. In his twenty-first year
Buch a trained soldier would be sub
ject to a call to the colors and In that
year should be subjected to at least
twenty days field service. At the age
of twentynine years the term of the
trained citizen Boldier in which he
would be subject to call In case of
natural emergency would terminate.
Under such a system, General Wood
estimated that there would be trained
each year an army of 500,000 men and
by holding these men subject to ser
vice for eight years that there always
Tvould'be available after the first eight
years an army of four million trained
men.
Intensive Training Necessary.
The intensive system of training
proposed, General Wood declared,
would equip young men for military
service better than half the men in
the regular army are trained efficient
ly. He also stated that the effect of
such training would improve the mor
ality of the nation.
"I think," he declared, "It would de
crease our murder rate by ten percent.
It also unquestionably would build up
our national solidarity. '
FRENCH CAPTURE
MANY PRISONERS
Total of 11,387 Germans
Taken on Verdun Front in
Three Days.
COUNTER ATTACK
Crown Prince's Forces Deliver
Violent Assault on New
French Positions.
Paris, Dec. 18, 2:10 p. m. French
forceB have taken a total of 11,387 Ger
man prisoners on the Verdun front
since the fifteenth of December, ac
cording to the announcement made by
the French war office this afternoon.
A violent German 'counter attack on
the Meuse has resulted In German
forcos securing a footing at' the Cham
brettes farm.
Tho text follows:
"South of the river Somme a de
tachment of tho enemy which was en
deavoring to occupy our lines south
east of, Berny, has been repulsed with
hand grenade. On the right bank of
the river Muese. after the bombard
ment reported in the communication
of yesterday, German forces delivered
a violent counter attack yosterday
evening on our new positions. They
succeeded, howovor, In only securing ,
a footing at a point on the Cham
brettes farm. We continue to hold the
Immldiate surroundings of this loca
tion. "Elsowhore the night passed in
quiet.
"The number of prisoners taken by
us since the 16th of December on the
Verdun front, is at prosent, accord
in'g to tho latest counting, li;387, in
cluding 284 officers. The, war mater
ial captured or destroyed includes one
hundred and fifteen cannons; forty
four bumb throwers and one hundred
and seven machine guns."
nn-
, Took Her at Her Word.
f "What's the matter with young Mrs.
Gadder?"
"She's broken-hearted, and says Mr.
Gadder no longer loves her."
"Why does she think that?"
"She wrote a letter to Santa Claus,
asking for a set of furs, and gavo it
to him to mail."
"Well?"
"He mailed it." People's Home
Journal. t ... .w,,
4
THREE ALLIED PREMIERS MUST DECIDE 1
WHETHER TIME IS RIPE TO END THE WAR .
I Premier Lloyd George (left), Premier Trepoff of Russia (top right) and
Premier Briand of France.
; Here are the three big men of the great allied nations in whose hands
I now exists the power to make peace. Lloyd George overshadows the other
two, who will probably abide by his decision.
POPE BENEDICT
. NOT TO MEDIATE
Vatican Will Make No Com
ment, or Proposals Regard
ing Germany's Peace
Proposals.
Rome, Dec. 17, 8:15 p. m. Via
Paris, Dec. IS, 5:15 a. m. Pope Bene
dict has no intention of attempting
to mediate among the belligerents at
present, according to a statement is
sued today by the Vatican. The state
ment says that neither the pope nor
the Holy See have made, or wish to
make any comment regarding Ger
many's peace proposals and therefore
any announcements attributed to them
are absolutely unfounded. It is add
ed that the pope naturally has an ar
dent deaore for peace, but that he does
not believe any intervention at the
present moment would hasten its con
clusion. '
Tho not result of several resolutions
introduced In the chamber of deputies
regarding tho German peace "offer and
a prolonged discussion among tho
sonators and deputies was the deci
sion by the legislators that no peace
would bo accepted unless in accord
ance with national aspirations and the
rights of peoplos based on tho princi
ple of nationality. If Ruch a peace is
lmposslbl to obtain, diplomatically, it
was declared that it must be obtained
by victory of arms.
oo
GERMAN BONDS ARE
IN PRIZE COURT
London, Dec. IS, 12:50 p. .m sir
Samuel Evans, president of the Brit
ish prize court, ruled today that Gor
man bonds come under the reprisals
order and that German securities to
the value of thirty thousand marks
which were seized whllo on their way
in a letter to the Stato Commercial
and Savings bank of Chicago, should
remain in court as property of enemy
origin until the declaration of peace
or until dealt with as the court might
direct subsequently. The securities
were seized on board the Danish
steamship Frederick VIII.
CHICAGO HOG MARKET.,
Chicago, Dec. 18. HogsReceipts
69,000; market firm at Saturday's av
orag to a shade higher. Bulk $9.75 to
$10.10; light $9.25 to ?10.00; mixed
$9.55 to 10.20; heavy ?9.65 to S10.25;
rough $9.65 to $9.80; pigs $7.35 to $9.10.
ARMY NOW SAFE
BEHIND SERETH
9
Rumanian Retreat Protected
by Russians Who Aie Fac
ing the Teutons.
Paris, Dec. 18, 5:10 a. m. The Ru
manian army is now safe, according to
news received in Paris last night, says
the Ptlt Parisan. Tho paper says
that the survivors are now beyond the
Sereth river at Jassy and in Bessar
abia, where they are being regrouped
and refitted in view of further opera
tions. The entiro Rumania front is
now stated to be held by the Russians
alone.
After the Bucharest-Ploechtl line
was lost, the story says, the Russians
sent divisions and forces of cavllry to
support tho retreat of the Rumanian
army. King Fordinand fell back as
rapidly as possible, assured of the
possibility of reforming behind the
shelter of the Russians and continued
the withdrawal without halting until
the Sereth was crossed. The Russians
offered strong resistance to the Ger
mans In the region of Buzeu so as
to permit Rumanian troops to con
struct a defensive front between Rim
nik pass and the Danube marches on
which front, it is stated, the Russians
Intend to stop the advance of tfre invaders.
PEACE NOTE IN
BRITISH HANDS
London, Dec. 18, 12:20 p. m. Tho
peaco note of the central powers was
handed to tho British government to
day by Walter H, Page, the American
ambassador.
Mr. Page called at the foreign office
oarly in tho day. In tno absence of
A. J. Balfour, the foreign secretary, he
presented the noto to Lord Robert Ce
cil, under-Becretary for foreign affairs,
oo
Worse Than the Deep Sea.
Tho bishop took a personal interest
in all his servants, and, happening to
pass the new maid on his way through
the back hall to tho stables one day,
he stopped to speak to her. "Well,
child," he said, "and where are you?"
"If you please, mo lord,'V the maid re
plied, with a curtesy, "between the
ck and tho housemaid." "Heaven
help you?" said the bishop, after a
moment's thought, and went on his
way. London Answers,
Teutonic Offensive in J
Rumania Cheeked by
Heavy Russian Fire
Czars Troops Now Hold Fighting Line Strong I
Defenses Prepared on Rimnik-Sarat Front 1
Where Firm Stand Wifl Be Made. I
London, Dec. 18, 3:43 p. m. Chancellor of the Ex- t jlj
chequer A. Bonar Law definitely announced in the house of M
commons this afternoon that Premier Lloyd-George would be !
present in the' house on Tuesday to make his statement regard- jl
ing the British government's policy. It is generally believed B
he will discourage hope of an early peace. , j M
PEACE PROSPECTS SLIGHT.
London, Dec. 18, 12:355 p. m.. The
Westminster Gazette which all along
has held strongly to the opinion that
j tho German peace proposals should re
ceive a serious reply, commenting on
Lne statement tnat me note contains
qo terms, says:
"If the German note contains no de
tails and is merely a repetition of
Chancellor von Bethmann-Hollweg's
speech in the reichstag, the prospect
of any immediate, result is exceed
ingly slight."
Lloyd-George to Make Statement.
London, Dec. 18, 11:03 a. m. Pre
mier Lloyd-George was much better
this morning and his secretary said
that he would certainly make the
promised statement in the house of
commons on Tuesday.
Russians Check the Teutons.
Some lessening of the Rumanian of
fensive is indicated by today's Ger
man army headquarters statement
'which reports the situation on the Ru
manian front unchanged.
Field Marshal von Mackensen's ad
vance has pushed considerably beyond
the Buzeu line, drawn approximately
across the southern -boundary of Mol
davia and unofflcial advices indicate
that the entente front is to be estab
lished between Rimnik-Sarat on the
Buzeu Jassy railway, about twenty
miles north of Buzeu and the Danube
marshes.
Rumanian Army Reforming.
Current advices declare that the Ru
manian army is no longer in action,
having been withdrawn for regrouping
and refitting to Jassy and Bessarabia
under the protection of Russian forces
which now hold the fighting lino. The
Russians are expected to make their
stand on the Rimnik-Sarat line where
strong defenses have been prepared.
The Berlin statement, reporting hos
tile forces falling back on Ibraila, in
dicate that the easterly end of the
lino mnv Via mnrlo nt MftKteranpsr.l.
about twenty-five miles south of Gal
tat. German Counter Attack.
On the Franco-Belgian front Paris
announces a s trong counter attack by
the Germans on the positions won by
the French in their recent sweeping
advance north and northeast of Ver
dun. The only success of the attack
ing forces, according to Paris, was at
one point on the Chambrettes farm,
about a mile and a quarter north of
Fort Douaumont, where they secured
a footing. i
The French took 11,387 prisoners in
the Verdun fighting of the past three
days, the Paris war office announced
together with 115 cannons, 107 ma
chine guns and forty-four bomb throw
ers. Great Britain has received the peace
note of Germany and her-trilies. The
note was handed to the British foreign
secretary by Walter Hines Page, the
American ambassador.
Russian Attack In Volkynla.
Berlin, Dec. 18. (By Wiroless to
Sayville) The Russians made an at
tack in Volhynia in the region north
west of Lutsk yesterday in an effort
to recapture positions taken by the
Germans. The war office announces
that the attacks were without success.
Thf KlntAmfmt. rends:
"Estern front: Northwest of Lutsk
an effort was made by the Russians
to recapture position taken by us on
December 16, near Bol Porsk (Maly
Porsk). Their attacks, which they
repeated at night, were repulsed. Also
renewed advances by tho enemy near
Augustowka, south of Zboroff, failed."
Quiet In the Meuse.
Berlin, Dec. 18, by wireless to Say
ville. Aside from minor activities in
the Somme and Meuse sectors, there
were no Important happenings on the
western front, army headquarters an
nounced today. The statement reads:
"Western front: There have been
no important events in the Somme
and Mouse sectors. There have been
minor fighting activities."
British Steamship Sunk.
London, Dec. IS, 11:22 a. m.
Lloyd's reports the sinking of the
British steamBhip Westminster.
The vessel referred to probably is
the 4,324-ton steamship of that name,
built in 1905 and owned in London.
There Is also a British steamship
Westminster of 252 tons, owned in
Grimsby,
l
ITALIAN SHIP .
RESCUES MEN !
, i'
. ,;
Answers Distress Signal From '
Long Lost Bark and Brings J
in Crew. i
i
ii
New York, Dec. IS. The twelve
men thought to have been lost on the ,i
bark Nethis being towed by the tug
Garibaldi during a storm off the New r
Jersey coast on a voyage north from M
Brazii, were rescued yesterday by the '
Italian steamship Sardegna, which jM
brought them to this port today. . jm
Distress signals were observed by ;
the " Sardegna's lookout at 10 a. m. jw
yesterday when the Italian vessel from 1 j
Mediterranean ports, was some miles
off Barnegat, N. J. A lifeboat was ''
lowered and the twelve men on the B
vessel In trouble which proved to be
the missing Nethtis, were taken off-
The Garibaldi towing the Nethtis
left Mainham, Brazil, on October 13. r
Several times the line parted but the J
tug succeeded In picking up the bark .
again until, with less than sixty miles
of their 6,000 mile voyage still be .
completed, the Nethtis was again lost
on Friday. This time tho heavy weath-
er made it impossible for the tug to . f
recover her tow and the bark's crew ' jj
I was given up as lost.
nn )'
ENGLAND FORBIDS 1
HEAVYJEALS I
First Food Restriction Is Put jl
in Force Meatless Day ,1
to Follow. : )
Washington, Dec. IS. Winter wheat H
was sown this fall on an estimated
area of 40,090,000 acres, an increase M
of SS7.000 acres over the revised esti- )
mate of the area sown in the fall of U
1915, the department of agriculture WM
today announced.
Condition on December 1 was S5.7
percent of a normal compared with
87.7 last year; SS.3 in 1914 and 90.2, ,
the ten years average. H
Rye sown this fall is estimated at
4,214,000 acres, an increase of 75,000
acres over the revised estimate of the : -
area sown In the fall of 1915.
Condition of rye on December 1, was
88.8 percent of a normal, compared
with 91.50 ljjst year; 93.C In 1914 and
92.9 the ten year average. ;
LABOR ONIONS I
MAKEPROTEST 1
Twenty-hour General Strike H
Called Against Increased H
Price of Food. : H
Madrid. Dec. 18, via Paris. 5:45 a.
m. A twenty-hour general strike
called by the labor organizations as
a protest against the Increased price
of food will take place tomorrow
throughout Spain. Factories, stores
and many offices will be closed and ,
no newspapers published. The au ;
thorities have posted notices appeal- '
ing to the good sense of the public to 9 j
maintain order and announcing that
any disturbances will be vigorously
dealt with.
-oo J
Washington, Dec. 18 President and
Mrs. Wilson today celebrated the first (HH
anniversary of their marriage. A fam- . HH
lly party will be entertained at din- iBH
ner at the Whito House tonight. HJ
