VOL XX NO. 231.
GERMANS GOT
A FOOTHOLD
By Making Violent Counter
Attack Apainst French
in Verdun Sector
11,387 GERMANS
TAKEN PRISONERS
Since Dec. 15, According to
the Paris Official
Statement
Paris, Dee. 18. The French forces
have taken a tola! of 11.387 prisoners on
the Verdun front since December 15, ac
cording to the French war oflice an
nouncement to-day. A violent German
counterattack on the Mense resulted in
the German force securing a footing at
Chambrcttca farm.
The otlicial statement last night was
as follows:
"On the right hank of the Meuse the
enemy artillery, counter-shelled by us,
bombarded our new line at Caeherau
villn and Besonvaux and notably in the
ncctor of the Chambrette farm.
"There was intermittent cannonading
on the rest of the front."
RUMANIAN ARMY
IS SAFE, DECLARES
PARIS NEWSPAPER
Entire Rumanian Front is Said to Be
Held By Russian Troops While the
Disorganized Rumanians are
Being Regrouped.
Paris, Dee. 18. The Rumanian army
is safe, according to news received in
Paris last night, says Petit Parisien. The
paper says that the survivors are now
belond Sereth river at Jassay and Bes
sarabia, where they are being regrouped
snd refitted in view of further opera
tions. The entire Rumanian front is now
stated to be held by Russians alone.
CAN CAPTURE KUT.
Any Time the British Commander De
cides He Wants To.
London, Dec. 18. The renewal of Brit
ish activity in Mesopotamia after seven
months' quiescence in attracting attention
Nothing is known of the new movement
except what is contained in the official
communication. The near approach of
the British forces to Kut-el-Amara is not
regarded as necessarily of great conse
quence, except so far as it may be part
of the definite plan, because it is believed
here that General. Maude, who now com
mands the expedition, has been in a posi
tion to take Kut-el-Amara at any time
during the last three months if he had
so desired.
KING FORFEITS THRONE.
According to Inhabitants of Greek Island
of Lemnos.
Paris. Dee. 18. The inhabitants of the
Greek island of Lemnos have issued a
proclamation declaring King Constantino
to have forfeited his right to the throne,
according to a dispatch from Saloniki to
the Havas agency. A committee of prom
inent citizens has been appointed, the
dispatch adds, to convey the decision of
the Lemnos populace to the provisional
government at Saloniki.
RUSSIAN ATTACK FAILS.
Berlin Declares They Tried to Re-Take
Positions in Volhynia.
Berlin, Dec. 18, via wireless. The
Russians made an attack in Volhynia
in the region northwest of Lutsk yes
terday, in an effort to recapture positions
taken by the Germans. The war office
says the attack was without success.
"NO CHANGE"
Says Berlin Reporting on the Rumanian
Front.
Berlin, Dec. 18, via wireless No
change in the situation on the Rumanian
front is recorded in to-day's official state
ment. BARK LOST IN STORM.
Was Being Towed to New York Twelve
Men Were Lost.
New York, Dec. 18 The Brazilian bark
Nethtis with 12 men on board was lost
during the snowstorm Friday night off
Barnegat, on the New Jersey coast, ac
cording to Capt. Moroes of the tug Gari
baldi, which arrived here late yesterday.
The Nethtis was in tow of the Garibaldi
on her way from Maranham, Brazil, to be
converted into a steam vessel.
The bark was lost, according to Capt.
Moroes, by the breaking under the strain
of the wind and high seas of the. chain
tackto to which the tow line was fas
tened. This occurred shortly before 7
p. nu and for seven hours the tug
searched through the blinding storm for
me trace of her tow, repeatedly sound
ing her whistle and burning lights to at
tract the attention of the men on board
the helpless craft.
The quet was unavailing, however,
and at daylight Saturday the tug came
on" to New York to r.'wrt tlie loss.
Coastguard authorities and life saving
stations a'ong the North Atlantic coast
were notified and asked to look out for
ti men.
The Nethtis is not registered in avail
able record. Capt. Moroos said, how
ever, that she i i vessel with three
mi.!i of a size that would Jiermit her
bring rnsd into a steamer. She was con-i-ned
to Barber and company, steam
ship agents hire, and as ta hate becc
ti'.t.d rp in x New York shipyard. The
11 Lie a oa the laxk were Eraril:ans.
THE
EVASIVE ANSWER NOT DESIRED.
Germany Must Try to Prevent Alltel
from Giving It.
Amsterdam, via lndon, lee. 18. Th
Frankfurter Zeitung. in an article on the
N'ac proposals, says:
"Germany nm.t try to prevent the
entente from giving an evasive answer.
We rxMvt wide cleavage of views at
the outset of the negotiation, but great
apparent diwrg.iici.-ii of opinion will
have le significance when the oral ex
planation are offered. The standpoint
of both partiea are already partly idiiij
thai as regard the general fundament ;il
aim of the war, and the German note
must lie understood a meaning that part
of the German proposal refer to the re
establishment of international conven
tion for the avoi'danee of International
conflicts and guarantee international
peace." ,
Referring to the possibility of alleviat
ing the burden of armament, the Zeitung
expresses the belief that an agreement
to this etfeet is possible owing to the suf
ferings caued by war, and adds:
"But Germany must not be asked to
precede the other in reducing her force.
Moreover, Germany does not believe in
abrogating general military service, al
though there are many objection against
such. It would lie abrogated if there
were a common organization of nations,
in which Germany would have an impor
tant place."
Discussing the naval question the pa
per explains that Germany's tleet has
been built only for defensive purposes,
anil continues:
"If German shipbuilding is to bo re
stricted in the future, other naval pow
ers, including the I'nited State must
do likewise. Great Britain must rec
ognize the sea as a free routo for all na
tions and must renounce dominations and
the British Idea that Great Britain has
the side right of policing the sea. The
regulation of sea traffic might proper
ly be tinder international organization."
GERMAN SHIP ESCAPES.
Had Been Interned in Norwegian Seaport
Since War Started.
Berlin, Dec. 18, (by wireless to S;iy
villc). The German steamship Prinz
Friedrich Wilhelm, which had been an
chored at Odde near Jlergen, Norway,
since the beginning of the war, has ar
rived at Etavanger, according to a dis
patch from Christiania to the Frankfur
ter Zeitung, "after having broken the
Hritiali hlnckaile outride Bergen." A
line of two British destroyers and three
tnrnwln hosts, the message adds, was
crossed by the German steamer.
The Prinz Friedrich Wilhelm is a twin
screw steamship of 17,02 tons, and was
i.nilt in 1!WI7. Before the war she was
engaged in the regular service of the
North German Lloyd line netween ore
men and New York. When hostilities
Norway on a cruise to the AreticDDOL
the vessel was off the coast
of Norway on a cruise to the Arctic
and put into Bergen to escape capture.
Stavanger is a Norwegian seaport 100
miles south of Bergen.
SYLVIA PANKHURST MOBBED.
When She Tried to Hold Peace Demon
stration in London.
London, Dec. 18. Sylvia Pankhurst, the
militant. atiffrniTpttp. and a number of
sympathizers endeavored to hold a "dem
onstration" at the East India dock gates
yesterday afternoon to demand peace. A
big crowa assemoieu ana moonea me
npnkers. The noiice interfered and
rushed Miss Pankhurst and her friends
to the police station followed by a dem
niiatrativn crowd. The Drisoners were
held under bail for examination before a
magistrate.
A FINANCIAL WIZARD..
Penniless In New York 16 Years Ago,
Now to Join J. P. Morgan Co.
New York, Dec. 18 Thomas Cochran,
president of the Liberty National bank
of this cjty, who came to New York vir
tually penniless 16 years ago, will be
come a partner in the firm of J. P. Mor
gan & Co., on January 1, it was an
nounced last night.
Mr. Cochran was born in St. Paul,
Minn., March 20, 1871, his parents hav
ing moved to that city from New York
state. At the age of 2D Mr. Cochran
came to New York City in search of for
tune. His first employment here, was
with a real estate company.
He earned a salary that the average
man in Wall street to-day would regard
as small until he attracted the attention
of Henry P. Davison, then vice-president
of the First National bank, but now a
member of J. P. Morgan it Co.
In a search for "promising young men,"
Mr. Davison "discovered" Cochran and
selected him together with Seward Pros
per, now president of the Bankers' Trust
company, to aid him in a plan to re-organize
the Astor Trust company. Mr.
Davison became chairman of the ex
ecutive committee of the Astor Trust
company and Mr. Cochran was made
vice-president. His rise in financial cir
cles was rapid after that.
RESCUE WORK STOPPED.
Severe Weather Halts Efforts on the
Transport Sumner.
New York, Dec, 18. Efforts to float
the L'nited States transport Sumner,
which went ashore off Barnegat, N. .T.,
last Monday night, were temporarily
abandoned last night by order of the war
department. Col. John M. Carson, jr., in
charge of the army quartermaster depot
in New York, said, however, that the
work would be renewed as soon as the
weather permits.
The Sumner, according to Col. Carson,
has sprung a leak and is in a much worse
position than at any time since he
grounded. A strong undertow and heavy
sea 'have made it impossible for the
wrecking crew sent to the vessel's aid
to pet near her. Col. Carson said he bad
directed that all the Sumner's lifeboats
be brought back tj New York by the
wrecking crew.
As eoon as the high winds and seas
slate, according to Col. Carson, efforts
will be made to salvage whatever is
found to be intact on the Sumner and, if
risible, to save the ves.l itself.
N A British Ship Sunk,
tendon. IVo. IS Llovds reports the
sinking of the Lr.lh &h;p Westminster.
BARRE DAILY TIMES
HARRE. VERMONT, MONDAY, DECEMRER 18. 1910.
BRITONS ON
SHORT DIET
First Food Restriction Went
into Effect in England ,
To-day
SLIGHT DIFFICULTY
WAS EXPERIENCED
Rut Two Courses for Break
fast and Luncheon and
Three for Dinner
London, Pee. IS. The first food restor
ation went into force in England to-day.
Hotels and restaurant were forbidden
to serre more than two courses for
hbreakfast or turn hi on and three courses
for dinner. Little inconvenience was ex
perienced in connection with the two first
meals. The Englishmen's usual break
fast consist of cereals and bacon and
eggs or fish, and except in the more ex
pensive places a luncheon of two courses
; rule. It. was in arramrini: for the
dinner of three courses that the caterers
experienced the greatest difficulties.
The meatless day which is expected
n follow shortly will prove a more diffi
cult problem for the restaurants, which
make a speciality of roasts.
UNIVERSAL MILITARY TRAINING.
Recommended by American Defense So
ciety as Means of Preparedness.
New York, Dec. 18 A platform of pre
paredness measures advocated by the
American Defense society wss made pub
lic here last night. It contains plank
calling for: '
Cniversal military training of tne.
youth of the country and of the men of
military age according to the principles
of the Moseley and Chamberlain bills.
Immediate acquisition of a reserve
supply of rifles, uniforms, machine guns,
mobile artillery and ammunition suffi
cient to equip an army of at least one
million men.
Immediate establishment of a chain of
fortified coaling stations in our five
group of islands stretching from the Pa
cific coast to the Philippine islands.
Preservation of the naval petroleum re
serves. LEWIS GUN UNFIT.
Official Condemnation Given by War Sec
retary Baker.
Washington, D. C. Dec 18.Offlcial
condemnation of the Lewis machine gun
extensively purchased for the British
and Canadian armies is expressed in a
formal statement issued last night by
Secretary Baker, assuming full responsi
bility for the action of the war depart
ment with respect to the much-discussed
weapon and directing that controversy
among army officers over it cease.
"Whatever responsibility attaches to
the condemnation of this gun as a serv
ice gun belongs to the war department,"
the statement asserts, "and not to the
chiif of ordnance or the ordnance depart
ments. The proceedings of the boards
which tested the rifle, have been in eacn
ease duly approved by the secretary of
war."
The statement shows that the inspec
tor was directed to investigate the whole
matter of the treatment of the Lewis
gun named after its inventor, a former
army officer, when "the controversy
reached the stage where open letters from
high ranking army officers were pub
lished." A board of officers already had agreed
with previous boards that the gun was
not suitable for extensive purchase for
the army.
EXPLOSION IN BOSTON.
Attempt Was Made to Blow Up a Police
Station.
Boston, Dee. 18. The station of the
harbor police in the north end district
was partly wrecked yesterday by an ex
plosion of dynamite that had been placed
against the outside walls apparently
with the intent to destroy the building.
Four officers were inside with three of
them asleep in a dormitory just above
the place w here the explosion tore a hole
in the wall, but all escaped harm. Resi
dents of the populous tenement districts
on Commercial and Salutation streets
nearby were frightened as their houses
were shaken, plaster was cracked and
broken glass fell about them.
The police said the explosion was in
tended probably as an act of retaliation
because several unlicensed meetings led
by industrial agitators had been broken
up recently by ofiicers. Several suspect
ed persons were questioned during the day
but no arrests were made. The resident
of the district are largely foreigners.
KILLED AND ROBBED.
Aged Couple of Mason City, 111, Were
the Victims,
Peoria. III., Dee. IS. Mr. and Mrs.
John P. Becker, 8. and 83 years old. re
spectively, were found murdered yester
day at their home near Mason City, III.
The couple had been shut to death and
their home riddled with bullets. 15lood
hounds are on the trail of the slayers.
The couple. aid to be wealthy snd the
owners of 3,l acres of farm land, are
reported to have hoarded their wealth
since the failure of a bank several years
ago. This money, together with J.t.iSSt
rent money received recently, is miss
ing. THEIR FIRST ANNIVERSARY.
President and Mrs, Wilson to Hav a
Family Party To-night.
Washington. P. C. Dec. IH.-TresM.-nt
and Mr. Wil-on. to-day celebrated the
fir.-t anniversary of their marriage. A
fkinur par!y will be entertain-d at din
ner i the Wliit Ueue to nht.
VOLUNTEER SYSTEM
IS NOT ADEQUATE
to U. S. NEEDS
Maj. Gen. Scott Sayi Nation Must Resort
to Universal Liability to Military
Training and Service.
Washington, D. ('., lee. 18. Maj. Gen.
Scott, chief of staff of the army, told the
Senate military committee tt-dy that
lbs army general ataff recommended
without apology that the volunteer sys
tem lie discarded, because "the time has
come when this country, unless it intends
to avoid war at any cost, must resort to
universal liability to military training
and service."
" Arraigning the volunteer system as ex
travagant and dangerous, Maj, Kcott told
the committee that universal training
would be democratic, reliable, efficient
and economical, and in a few years woulj
render the I'nited States immune from
attack.
In view of a lesson from the European
war, (ien. Scott i of the opinion that a
million and a half of troops, fully
equipied and ready, should be available
at the outbreak of a war, with another
million and a half to follow.
NEW OFFICE MADE.
Supervisor of Home Economics in State
School System.
Burlington, Dee. 18. A supervisor of
hnum economics, to have ceueral charge
of home economics, the department of
ermonts high school system, win oe
appointed as soon as the right person foi
the place can be found. Assistant Dean
Floyd B. Jinks of the state college of
agriculture, who has been director of the
ta,'hitiir of sericulture in the high
schools of the state since the beginning
of the academic year, said so Friday.
It may be two or three months before
the appointment can be made, Professor
Jenks intimated, but the announcement
of the fact is significant to those who
ham followed tlm development of the
junior high school idea, of the educa
tional department s intent, f.igiil or nine
nAW innior hiirh schools were instituted
at the opening of the school year, and a
supervisor of junior nigli scnooi in me
person of Clyde M. Hill wag appointed.
xt Iia same time manv new teachers of
agriculture and home economics were ap
pointed. The next step means me sjs
f this nha-e of t lie work of
the high schools, senior and junior alike.
REDUCE PAPER PURCHASE.
Proposal Which May Be Made to Big
Newspapers.
vl,inf.ton. D. C. Dec. 18. Efforts
to find relief for the news pri.it paper
shortage and the prevailing high prices
were continued today by the federal
a conference with
committees, newspaper publishers, news
print manufacturers and paper jobbers.
The plan discussed proposes ju
iit,or of tli lnrcer newspapers reduce
their purchases next year by five per
cent, so the smallejr papers may receive
more oi ma anppiy.
WHEAT BELOW AVERAGE.
Although Acreage Sown Was Greater
Than Last Year.
v...v.n.nn- T). C. Dec 18. Winter
this fall on an estimated
area of 4O,O!lO,0fK) acres, an increase of
887,H)0 aces over the revised estimate
of the area sown in the fall ot imn. me
department of agriculture announced to-
The condition on Dec. 1 was RoJ PT
cent of normal, compared with S7.7 last
year and 00.2, the ten-year average.
STREET CAR TIPPED OVER.
And Six People Were Injured at Fall
River, Mass.
Fall River, Mass., Dec. 18. An electric
car containing 34 passengers tipped over
on a sharp curve at the foot of Conanicut
hill in North Tiv-rton, R. I., yesterday.
Six of the passengers were brought to St.
Anne's hospital here, where it was re
ported that the most seriously hurt was
Mrs. Henry Borden of this city. Mrs.
Borden has severe uts and bruises on
the head and body. Others treated for
multiple cuts and bruises are Otis Ham
bly, Mrs. Frost, Mrs. Sacks, Mrs. Minkin
and Henry Borden, all of this city. The
remaining passengers who suffered minor
injuries were sent to their homes in au
tomobiles and carriages.
The car was bound here from Newport,
R, I., "over the lines of the Bay State
Street Railway company. It was a
heavy steel car and for some cause, which
the company' officials were unable to de
r .;., la.V niirlit. t?ot beyond control
of the motorman in going down Conani
cut street. At tins point mc niu is umu
and steep and the tracks curve sharply
into Shove street. The car was unable
and continued straight
ahead for some distance before toppling
over on Jts side.
TALK OF THE TOWN
All merchants' association stores will
lie open every evening this week.
Glenn I. Fitzgerald, who ha been stay
ing w ith relatives on North fain street
during the past week, left last night for
his home in White River Junction.
Dr. H. J. Ryan. L. S. surgeon of Bos
ton, arrived in the city Saturday night
and will spind several days in the city
on business.
Mrs. J. K. Ball of North Main street
left the city this noon for Hartford,
Conn., where" she will spend several days
with friends. Mr. Ball, who is employed
in the granite business of this city will
complete his duties here later i" the
week, and will leave for Hartford during
the first of next week, where he has a
business prospect in view.
Miss FJW-n N. Medds, who has been
visiting relatives on South Main street
during the pat week, left last night tor
her home in Manchester. N. H.
Fred A. Ordway returned to his hn;e
in Chelsea this morning, after spending
several days in the city on business.
James T. Kenefick of Whington
street returned to ltarre Saturday after
acting as umpire at the ba Act ball game
Friday night at Morriville between Peo
ple's academy and Stowe high sthool.
The score resulted 23 to 18 in favor of
People's .oademy.
it. ...I Mr. II A. PiL of rtrattlrhnro
arrived in the city Saturday night. Mr.
Pike will penl everai o in me cj
vn a bti-incts vifit
PEACE NOTE .
DELIVERED
The United States Formally
Handed It to the Iirit
' ish Government
AMBASSADOR PAGE
GAVE IT IN PERSON
Lord Robert Cecil, Under
Secretary for Foreign
Affairs, Received It
London, Dec. 18. The peace note of
the central powers was handed to tho
British government to-day by the Amer
ican Ambassador Page. The ambassador
called at the foreign office early to-day
and in the absence of A. J. Balfour, the
foreign secretary, presented the note to
Ird Robert Cecil, Under-Secretary for
foreign affairs.
POPE HAS NO PLAN
TO OFFER MEDIATION
Official Statement at the Vatican De
clares That He Does Not Wish to
Make Any Comment on
Proposals.
Rome, Dec. 17, via Paris, Dec. 18.
Pone Benedict has no intention of at
tempting to mediate among the belliger
ents at present, according to a statement
to-day by the atican.
The statement says that neither the
none nor the holv see have made or wish
ii - , . . .
to make any comment regarding Ger
many's peace proposals. It is added that
the pope naturally has an ardent desire
f.ir nuuee. hut does not believe that any
intervention at this time would hasten
its conclusion.
WILL SPEAK TUESDAY.
Premier Lloyd-George Was Much Better
This Morning.
London, Dec. 18. Premier Lloyd-
George wa much better this morning
and his secretary said that he certainly
would make his promised, statement, in
the House of Commons to-morrow.
HALF MILLION WOULD HELP.
Toward Restoration of Peace, Says Fred
erick C. Walcott.
YVanhimrfon. 1). C Dec. 18. Frederick
C. Walcott of New York, who recent'
investigated conditions in Poland and
Belgium for the Rockefeller Foundation,
oil a nnmher of senators and represen
tative who met last night at the homo
of Miss Mabel T. Board man of the Red
rw. thnt a fund of J.VKVOOO.fHX) collect-
..I i this. country and offered for relief
of non-combatants in Europe would be a
powerful peace influence at tnis nme. ne
said such an act wopld tend to create
great popular demonstrations for peace,
among civilian populations of warring
nations, because tney wouia oe ni"u
rehabilitating their
homes and restoring, normal living condi
tions.
Mr. Walcott suggested that a fund of
ahnnld he raised by combined
popular contribution and congressional
appropriation. Considering the wealth of
ti,. t nitcfl States, he declared it was
not an exorbitant sura to give. Since
mi 4 the estimated aggregate income oi
the I'nited States has been $80,000,000.
om t, anU unit the combined offerings
fiM-'war sufferers lias amounted to $40,
000,000, or one-twentieth of one per cent
of the income.
TO QUIT SERVICE.
H. Snowden Marshall Not to Be Candi
date for U. S. District Attorney.
New York. Dec. 18. II. Snowden Mar
shall, I'nited States district attorney for
.u .iimrn iiiutric. of New York, an
nounced last night that he w ill not be a
candidate for reappointment when bis
term expires on May 7, next, but will
return to private practice, ine r-si;ii-tion
of Roger J. Wood, his chief assist
ant, was announced Saturday.
The United States supreme court, is
still considering Mr. Marshall's appeal to
prevent the House of Representatives
from ntmitlinfr him for contempt follow
ing his controversy with the committee
of that body having impeachment charges
against him under consideration. The
charges against him were the outgrowth
of his activities in bringing about the in
dictment of men active in Labor's Na
tional Teaee council.
GIVES HER HOME.
Herself Afflicted with Consumption, She
Hopes to Help Others.
v, York. Dec. 18. Miss Martha
Hcntschel of Kingston, N. Y.. herself a
victim of tuberculosis, has deeded her
home, said to be valued at $75,000, to
three trustees here to be used as a san
atorium for members of the Internation
al T-arli' C.arment Workers' union suf
fering from the disease, it was annoum-ed
last night. The house will be remiwl
elcd and transformed within a few
months into a haven for the girl vic
tims of the plague.
Mis Hentsehel, who is L'n years old
.-I . nro kr nrnfesxion. contracted the
disease while "engaged here in settlement j
work in its relation to factory ana nome
life of working girls.
Neale Emerson, driver of the anlo
truck at the fire station, will leave to
morrow noon for his home in Lancaster,
X. H where he will spend the Cnritmas
holiday reresa and extend his atay until
i , miill ,f .fsnn.rv .1 the
n-.iiv . .
home of lis parent. Perley Witham of j
Ninth Farre will drive the tnnk during
Mr. Emerson's abente.
HURLED THROUGH
WINDOW MY RUN
AWAY HORSE
Dr. 0.' J. Gilchrist of Rutland Was Seri
ously Injured and Al'o Lost Con
siderable Blood.
Rutland, Dec. 18. Dr. 0. J. (iilchlist
of Center street sustained serious in
juries yesterday morning at 11:30 o'clock
when he was thrown from bis sleigh
against the window of the shoe shop in
the basement of the St. James lioti'l on
West street. His head crashed through
the ghtss and he received several se
vere cuts. He is in a critical condition
at the Rutland hospital suffering from
loss of blood and concussion of the brain.
The physician was driving along
Church street when his horse started st a
fast pace toward West street. Tim
sleigh struck the curbing at the comer
of West street and the frightened ani
mal made for the sidewalk, the sleigh
turning about when it came in front ot
the shoe shop. Dr. (jilchrist was knocked
insensible when he struck the window
but he recovered consciousness before be
ing taken to the hospital.
Medical assistance was at once sum
moned and Dr. Gilchrist taken into the
SJ. James hotel. Drs. W. W. Townsend.
It. E. Smith and W. i. Ho.Ulon re
sponded to the call. At the hospital Dr.
E. M. Pond also attended tho injured
physician. Dr. Gilchrist suffered a great
loss of blood as some of the cuts about
the face and hands were very deep. The
shock to his nervous system is causing
the attending physicians anxiety.
The horse ran some distance before
being caught and returned to its stable.
DEATH OF DAVID B0LLES.
Barre Man Was Veteran of the Civil
War.
David Holies, a well known carpenter
of Barre and a veteran of the war be
tween the atates, passed away at his
home on upper Hill street this morning
at 7:35 o'clock. Mr. Holies had been in
failing health for the past two years and
more, although the confinement preceding
his demise began only six weeks ago.
Death was due to diabtrtes.
Mr. Holies is survived by his wife and
seven children, Mrs. Flora Johnson of
Orange, Wallace B-dles of Plainfleld,
Clarence Bolles of Montpelier, Mrs.. Alma
Cutler of Orange, Forrest Bolles of Tona
wanda, N. Y.. Mrs. Rose Spauldirjg and
Miss Esther Bolles of Tampa, Fla. Sur
viving also are two brothers, Henry
Bolles, who lives on Maple hill in Marsii
field, and George Bolle of Plainfleld.
Mr. Bolles was born in Marshfiekl Aug.
9, 1844. His boyhood was passed in the
town of his birth and as a young man he
went out as a nine months' man in a
Vermont regiment that fought valiantly
to put down the rebellion in the South.
After the war he came to Barre and his
marriage took place in Montpelier Dec. 6,
1863. His wife's maiden name wss Miss
Lestina Bates, a native of Barre. The
deceased was a carpenter by trade and
had been employed on the construction
work of many buildings in Barre. Ho
was highly esteemed by his co-workers
and wss held in warm regard by his
neighbors and other friends. One year
ago Mr. and Mrs. Bolles observed their
golden wedding anniversary at the Bolles
home on Trow hill. Mr. Bolles was a
member of the carpenters' union and an
adherent of the Methodist church.
Funeral services will lie held at the
house Wednesday afternoon at 1:30
o'clock. Rev. B. O. Lipsky, pastor of the
Hedding Methodist church, will officiate
and interment will be made in Elm wood
cemetery.
BIG HOTEL IN PROSPECT. '
New York Capital Said to Be Interested
at Middletown Springs.
Rutland, Dec. 18 It is learned on good
authority that a large hotel is to be
built at Middletown Springs, 12 miles
west of this city. Brainerd Avery, who
owns considerable real estate in the vil
lage, has interested Astor capital at New
York in the project and the site of the
Montvert hotel, which was dismantled
a few vear atra because of its antiquity,
has been decided upon. Persons close to
Mr. Avery say that capitalists nave neen
looking this state over as a good field for
investment for some time nnd have se
lected Middletown as presenting the best
possibilities because of the spring ex
isting there. The new building will rep
resent an outlay of several hundred
thousand dollars.
The hotel men have had experts ex-
a m in a thtt U'uterS and thev are pro
nounced equal to the best in America
and Europe for curative properties, xne
medical properties of the springs were
recognized more than a century ago and
formerly people from miles around gath
ered there.
SUED FOR $20,000.
Rutland Railroad Defendant as Result of
John H. Bean's Death.
Middlebury. Dec. 18. Charles A. Pur
rintrton. administrator of the estate of
John H. Bean of Middlebury, has brought
suit in the Addison county court agamsi
the Rutland railroad to recover damages
of $.20,000 on the ground that Mr. Bean
lost his life through negligence oi me
railroad.
Mr. Bean was shipping a car of pota
toes a year ago and had been given per
mission to board a freight train in order
to care for them. While walking along
the roofs of the cars, after the train nan
started, he was knocki-d off and killed
when his head came in contact with an
overhead pass.
AS FOR EARLY EXECUTION.
Two Condemned Men Sought Death Be
fore Christmas.
Sing Sing. X. Y.. Dec. 1 Two youths
sentenced to be executed at Sing Sing
prison this week have voluntarily short -
eneil tiieir lives ny m o-si wm-c un
order that the grief of their relaties
may be dulled as much as M.ihle by
Chri-tmas, it was announced hire l-t
night.
They are Stanley J. MdUtein, I'J jests
of age of I'tica. who kilhil a polii-eman.
and Charles Kumrow, 2n. who killed
tugboat captain in Buffalo. They were
to have been aent to the chair Friday
or Saturday.
The young men sent Fr. t'ahui. the
prison chaplain, to Ward.n Mover, how
ever, and requested that they exe
cuted Tuesday. To this, it was s d. the
warden assented.
l'llICK. ONE CENT.
FAMILY iS
WED OUT
When F Destroyed Inter
ocean Hotel at Chey
enne, Wyoming
ALL BODIES EXCEPT
ONE RECOVERED
Mr. and Mrs. Roy A. White
and Four Children
the Victims
Cheyenne, Wyoming, Dec. 18. Roy A.
White", Mrs. 'White and their four chil
dren lost their lives to-day when lire
destroyed the Interoeean hotel. The bod
ies of' Mrs. White and two sons were
found iii the ruins. A nine-month-old
baby was rescued by firemen but died
from burns. I he body ot tne tourm
child has not been recovered. White
was electrocuted when he fell among
some electric wires after jumping from
the third floor.
ADMITTED HEN STEALING.
Two Barre Men Were Arraigned After
Berlin Farmer's Los
On the train of chicken thieves whoso
depredations in the past fortnight havo
left a streak of feathers on nearly every
street where fowls are allowed to assem
ble, the Barre police to-day arrested two
men whose pleas of guilty entered on the
rcords at city court indicate that per
sistent sleuthing is not without its re
ward. Charles Young and John Lafor
rest are the respondents, and they are
being held at police headquarters for
sentence. It was expected that State's
Attorney F. E. Olcason would be along
this afternoon or to-morrow to be pres
ent when sentences are imposed by Mag
istrate H. W. Scott. Young and Lafor
rest were arrested by Chief Sinclair on
complaints made to the state's attorney.
George J. Willcy, a Berlin farmer, who
lives at the south end of the pond in
that town, was the complaining witness
in proceedings against the pair, and it is
alleged that the thieving took place on
the night of Dec. 7. From rather meagre
clues the police started out to find two
men who relieved 'fir. Willey's poultry
yard of lid fowls. Evidence began to ac
cumulate when it was learned that
Young and Laforrest engaged a team at
a North Main street livery on the night
of the alleged theft, and that buyers for
a quantity of chicken meat were sought
by the two men a few days afterward.
Young's premises were searched, and
then a number of householders, as well
as an Italian butcher, were consulted.
Almost everywhere they looked, the au
thorities found feathers, and suspicions
began to point something more than an
accusing finger at Young and Laforrest.
Both men were arraigned on grand lar
ceny charges this morning and wasted no
time in pleading guilty.
The police say that the arrest of the
two nicu is only the beginning of their
campaign against chicken thieves.
PISTOL WOUND FATAL. ,
Norman Arnold, Dartmouth Freshman,
Died Sunday.
Hanover, N. II., Dec. 18. Norman
Fuller Arnold, Hyde Park, Mass., a mem
ber of the freshman class of Dartmouth
college, died at 3 o'clock yesterday aft
ernoon in Mary Hitchcock hospital, fol
lowing an accidental shooting, Dec. 8.
Arnold received a fatal discharge on tho
green from a 22 calibre rifle, in the
hands of a classmate. Hie boy was
rushed to the hospital and the bullet ex
tracted immediately. It was thought
that he would recover but a relapse set
in Saturday evening and the second op
eration failed.
Norman Fuller Arnold was born in
Hyde Park, Mass., Dec. 30, 1808. He at
tended grammar school and Hyde Park
high school, graduating in the class of
HUG. He is survived bv his mother and
father, Mr. and Mrs. W. V. Arnold, and
an older brother, Richmond Arnold. Hjs
father and mother have been in Hanover
ever since the shooting and will take the
body to Hvde Park to-day. bervic.es will
be held at the Episcopal church, Hyde
Park, Kcv. Ketcham otliciating.
LARGE NUMBER AT FUNERAL.
Services of E. D. Bartlett Were Held at
Plainfleld.
Plainlhld, Dee. 18. The funeral serv
es of Edward D. Bartlet t, who died Fri
ay morning of cancer of the liver, were
eld Sunday afternoon at 2 o'clock at
in Coiif relational church. Rev. S. P.
Hlomtield of Montpelier, assisted by Rev.
A. W. Hewitt, officiated. The bearers
were Roscoe and Clement Bartlett, Wil-
m Ahims. Chester Sanborn and Wal
lace and Clinton Barlett. The Washing
ton lonnlv sheriffs and the Junior Order
of Mechanics were in attendant
Miss Alice Hudson and Reuben Hudson
sang "God's Wsv" and "Some Time
We'll I nderstand." The burial was in
the village cemetery.
The services were largely attended,
manv being present from Montpelier and
Barre and the surrounding towns. There,
were many floral tributes. Mr. Bart
lett will lie greatly missed by his many
friends. Mm-h sympathy is felt for tha
bereawd family.
WRECK SURVIVORS ARRIVE.
' Eleven from IU-Fated Spanish Steamship
j Pio IX, Wrecked in Storm.
I r York. IVc. 18. Eleven survivor
' of the ill-fated Spanish steamship Pio
l. wrecked in a -torm and sunk sevgl
hundred miles off the Canary i-!snd on
le-vmlT ". arrived here yesterday on
the steamship Itm-no Aires. Eleven oth-,-rs
were reported to have been saved by
!a Fren-h transport, while forty of tho
;,rew , including the captain, were
drowned. Nun- of the men on the Buenos
Aires were picked wp from an improvised
rail and te of them from a laddir.
