ULL,III U VL I Vll I 1k.UMll If 111 V V I I I I If If 1 II I Li IvI
i iji.nvii iai i vvv vui;un ivyvvnsj t,uuu lviLiiY
Wthrnin or tnow probabla to-night) Thursday fair.
EDITION
11 EDITION
" Citcxdaiion Books Open to All."
"Circulation Jiook.Opcn to All."
1916. 16 PAGES
PRICE ONE CENT.
Owtiflitt HMO. by Thr I'rfM rnbllthlnff
NEW YORK, WEDNESDAY, MARCH 8,
PRICE ONE CENT.
lOi (inr iirrr iiim iioriurt
FINAL
M
GERMANY TO MODIFY U-BOAT ORDER
IF ENGLAND, LIKE HER. OBEYS OLD LAW
BIG GAINS BY CROWN PRINCE
ON BOTH WINGS AT VERDUN
BAMS 20 MILES APART
- -
Berlin Reports Advance of Nearly
Two Miles on a Four-Mile Front
West of Meuse, and Further Suc
cess at Fresnes, to Southeast.
BERLIN, March 8. Capture of the village ot Forges and Uegneville
and the Raben and Cumieres heights was announced by the War Office
to-day. The Germans captured ten cannon, 5,277 men and 58 officers.
In the Woevre region the enemy was driven out of rrc.siies and more
than 700 prisoner taken.
Despatches from 1-iondon earlier In the lay admitted that
Rfgnovlltp, a strong!;- fortlflod- village, two-thirds RiirrounJed
by the German troojw. Its aurrcu Jr within a few hours wa fore
catad. Loaa of tie villas of Forgee, u mile beyond Rcsnovlllo, was
admitted by tho French yeetcrduy. Tho two villages aro soven
and eight miles respectively northwest of Verdun and iboth are on
the went sldo of tho Meuse.
Tho French had admitted the loss of Fresno, twelve miles
southeast of Verdun, but claimed to liuve regained part of tho vil
lage. According to the abor report .'mm Heriin they have been
driven from the entire village. Kogneviili. and Frsne3 are about
twe.nty miles apart and on tho left and right wings of the Verdun
sector. The total number of prisoners t.ihen was more than 4,000. J
Following is the text of the statement given out at Army Head
quarters: "On the left bank of the .Meuse, In order to Improve the con
nections with the new German line on iho right bank of the Meuse,
which runs on the southern Mopes of the Tote do Tnlou and of the
I 'otc du I'ohrc and on the Pouatunont positions, we .stormed French
positions on both sides of Forges lironk, below Brthineourt, over a
width of six kilometres (3.7 inllesi and .i depth of more than three
kilometres (l.s miles)."
"The villages ot Forges anil ltegncv(l!e, as well as the heights
of Ha:en and the Cumlere? woods are In our possession. Counter
attacks by the French against the southern boundaries of thtao
woods wer repulsed with sanguinary los.-es. A great number of the
ue'-upanlfl In the raptured positions perlshod. Fifty-eight officers
and 3,27 men were taken prisoner. Furthermore ten cannon and
much other war material were captured.
"In the Woovrc district the enemy was driven out of the last
limisfs in Fri'Mus. The number of prisoner taken iliore was in
loaned in it ofl.eii.- and more tlinn "on men A few machine gnus
wr apt ii. i d
' J i a rPiaii -iiund ons .Irnpp. .) Iiumls on Lie villages to the
weal hi idun. uhMi are occupied by the encm).
French Report Big Gun Battles;
Claim Gains in Champagne
I'ARIS, .March 8.-r-Heavy artillery fighting continued throughout
last night on both banks of the Meuse, the War Office reported this af
ternoon. The situation on the Verdun nnnhern front remains unchanged.
The cannonade was especially violent norihive.-t ol erddii, on the
west bank ol the Wuse, where the Germans arc believed to be preparing
lor an attempt to capture Guose Hiil and Dead Man Hill.
"In the Champagne district, in the region to the east of
Maibous Un Champagne, wo imiuchrd an attack Milch placed us
again in po.s:cr.siou ot the soctions ot trencher, occupied by the
euemy on the Otli of March. In the course of this lighting we took
clghty-flve priaoncis, Including thrco otliccrs, and captured a ma
chine gun. A tounter attack on the part of the enemy delivered n
little later against the pofitlous we held was successfully repulsed.
"In the region to the north of Verdun no change has been re
ported. Dining the Luurht; ot the night Iho liorninns continued
their bombardment of our front in tin v,cU of tho rUcr .Mcubc, but
without putting forward their Inl'.in.iy.
"Our batteries renponded with eueigy to the Om of our advoi
r.aries in this sector, as well as to tho enst of tho Meuse, thcto the
rtlllcry bombardment has been Intermittent.
"Thero bus been very spirited artillery fighting in the Woovro.
We have bombarded nianzee, Grimaucourt und tho environs of
Freeues.
"An attack by the enemy against the railroad and the highway
to Manheulles was cheeked by our curtain of fire and the activity
of the French infantry."
It is reported here that the f lermaib set aide too.ooo men to capture
erdun. Only :oo,ooo Iving employed up to yesterday, it was a ques
tion whether 'the remaining ino.ooo would be used to make a sudden
descent on some other part ot the l-rcn;h line in developing the offensive
against the fortress. The heavy attack west of th; river leaves that
question no longer to b icttlcd.
WOMAN IS DEAD
AFTER STRUGGLE
Dr.
No
Benjamin H. Scaring of
6 West Eleventh Street
Arrested.
SIGNS OF A BEATING. i
Victim Was Nellie Kiernan,
Who Had Left Her Rooming
Place Weeks Aga
A summons by tolophoim from a
tenant In thn Wellfurd apartment
lioiisc at So. J-5 West Kleventh Strict
at " o'clock tills aftxrnoon led to a
pnllre Invfstlgntlon which lirotieht to
light tli bodj "f a partially eld
woman on Min itnor of the dining
room of a k round Moor apartment,
occupied uv e man who calls himself
Dr. enjamln It. Boarlnc. xvho used It
as an office. Tlie woman's arms and
face were black and blue. Searlnij
attired In pajamas and stupid from
the effect of drink or drugs was In
the flat, .seated at .1 front window
looking out In the street when the
police arrived.
"It was only a llttto -liip," h mut
inied. "I don't knoH wlint It Is all
about."
On information furnished later by
Searing the pollen Identified tho dead
woman us Nellie Klcrnan or Theresa
Kcennn, thirty-five years old, recent
ly employed as a nun. nt St. Vln
ont's Hospital. She had lived at N'o.
13s West Tlilrt'-f nth Stroot and N'o.
14(1 WcM Kleventh Street. She tuft
the latter address, apparently for n
walk, on Feb. 23, and a- not seen
there again, according to Mr- Mr.
Ornth, who conducts a rooming house
there.
It wxis about Fcti. !2 that Dr. cSar
ing. who had been livlngalone In tho
Wellford since the first of the year
took a woman to his apartment and
Introduced her to the hallboys and to
the proprietress of a laundry across
the street as his wife. From evidence
gathered In tho lioun' the poller be-
lie that Seaiinu and lie- wimuri
1 mmedlatelj- entered upon a ileb.iuch
, which continued until it was nded
j by to-day's tragedy.
searing hart no sign in nis wmnow
and did not practice. Within the p.ist
two weeks sounds of nu.u relllng and
fighting wero frequently hoard In his
apartment. The laundress w;as un
able to gain entrance, several days
ago and thn hall attendants suy they
do not bellev elthr Searing or the
woman had )et th rooms for a week.
Staring, at about s o'elotk thH
morning. hIuckci'fiI out into the hall
nt 1 1 roil only In his pajamas and In
strutted the elevator mu. tr.lin I'lor
1I.111. to send for nil uiitli -t.iU' r II"
Midi his wife was dead The elexator
man telephoned to tho otllce of I'ease
& lailman. agenla of the building, hut
no iiotlllcation of the tragedy reached
the polho until - o'clock this after
noon, when John Uuckii'ir. a tenant,
suspecting t lt.it .oniothlng wa, wrong.
It lephuued to the Mercer Stieet Sta
tion. in the rity duectory thn tes.denee of
a Dr. I'fnjanun It. Searing Is clv.-n
as No 167 West Uighty-lirst S ieet
His name d'tes not appear In the tele
phone dirtctuiy. On dune 30, 190o, u
Dr. Ii njamlu II Senrlng was married
nt Montelalr, N. .1, to a Miss Helune
A Stuckle.
CALL 0RPET CASENEXT WEEK
fntirl Will (ilie Mearliiu on Pis
lulttsfil of Miirilrr liiillt-tiiient.
W'AL"Ki;iN. Ill . Mur.-h t,V,tinel
for William II firptt I niv. i.,iti of vi
cv.mln yo'ilh. 'lntiKrd with IN' mu
or Mnrlnn I.Hinhert it'lnd t'li.tiii .IikIk
C C Kdvesrtlt to-ilnv to rlh ms the in
rttftment Hgaint him. Iinlue Udwardt
th bcirlPB of Hrmmnnt'j on the
motion for neit Mondiy.
IN DOCTOR'S OFFICE
STRAUS WILL QUIT
UNLESS WHITNEY
Chairman of P. S. Board Re
sents Assertions Made by
Senator Thompson.
WHITMAN WII.I. MICK.
Governor Says He Will Not
Withdraw Nominee Prom
the Senate.
t'h.ili linn Straus of the Put.,. Sc.
vlcn Conimifsioii dtc'.nrt.l t"-d..y t'nt
be will resign unless he i-.ui cont.niie ,
to have tlie services of Secre'.irv'
' t
Tiavls II. Whitney, Assistant Coun
sel I.r Hoy T. Hatkncss and Deputy
ICnglneer Daniel U Turner of the
Public Service Commission. I Its
statement w.is brought out bv Sena
tor Georgo F. Thompson's attack in
the State Senate on the tennrmutlou
of Whitney and Charles K. ffervoy as
Iubllc Service Commissioners. Mr.
SI runs said:
"I see the reports In tho press that
Senntrr Thompson credits 1110 with
being an able man and In tho same
breath seems to tinny my capacity bv
tho statement that I'm in the h.indsi
of a clique hero who hold me in th"
hollow of their hands.
"I confess wo have gome very able
men in this commission, and I wotil 1 1
single cut the very tbien men that
Senator Thompson names, nniit'..
Secretory Whitney, Assistant i'"un
eel lliukness and Assistant Kngmef.
'.turner.
"I had some experience In large
atlmlnlstritions when I w.u- 1 I
of the Federal Department of cv ,
merco anil Labor, which w m "nr 1
of the largest. If not the large,
department of the (ioverii'iiem s 1
largo thit since I hold It under the
Itnosovclt Administration It has been I
divided into two departments) under I
two Cabinet memtiers, namely, tin j
Department of Commerce and t j
Department of Labor.
"I believe it Is generally coneclf I 1
that I atlmlntsti-rc d that tlep.u-liootr ,
I 1th some ere. lit and otllt i. iicy I- !
thnt dep.irtmt nt, widen w.ik oru-11 a
1 organized by es-Secretniy for'. Is., 1
who was Us llrst chief, we hfid mn.
able men, but none of them was mote
competent In any hurn.ni or of higher
character than Whitney, M.irkness
and Turner.
"The city Is fortunate in huvlng
such men In its employ. I have been
head of this Commission long enough
to value their ability and their char,
acter. but thn responsibility that de.
volvcs upon the Chairmanship of tho
Commission la mine.
"t wuuiil regard It short of
imamiiy it nie. serMcj should lose
the benefit or tho experleium, ahllln 1
and devotion to their duties uf thus.-
. .. .. , . "'"n
nm ti iii'if 4ii biiit'ii l iji tint i in vm ii ir in 1
the Oovenior to
the rbalrmaiish.p or tiiib "ornmlffslon
chiefly as It catno to mo os an urgent
call to render a public service and
to aid in rehabilitating the Commis
sion in public culifliJitiHn. I haw
given to It the best ability that I
posse.is, and if I .110 to be deprivul
of the ser.ce,-, of the men nametl I
shrill certainly rcfuso t. eotitlnuo in
ollice."
WHITMAN SAYS Iliru,
STICK TO Till! NAMRS
in: SUM' TO seati:
ALHANV, Murch S i. Whitman
tills afternoon n iter.neii m-. out. r
mlnanoii to ste'k 'o h:, n Publl
Servlte I'nrnnii --1011 Horn n s thioiigh
ihlek and ti.in
Whin fold of mu 11 I'limiipMjir.-
(C'ontinuod on Se on l Page.)
IllSrai ( III IM 'III MMIMI II ( I.IM
All ei.jtf. i Ml. I1 l.tn s.mrn r4t.
l.Ian 4DU lif.Tlt fe The Wi.-' i Trtl II 11
rc.l, I -tilttjur IIUMi llu.ili. MU '.t
Il9f, N. X. UW, Kuulcai Bcuiun idUO, A4tt.
REMAINS AS AID
' Three Principals
In Long Island
j tS jt tv.i iii i ti i i 1 1 t 1 i.i inx i(
! : mrtMvfflw' '-i
1: W&,m?A
luuauituL,Ai
Wl.TEW. SCHlNOt.ER
Ei
wmm case
tikis Little Nivk Woiii.in Did
Not Dictate Letter- to
Alvena Moltje.
Magistrate Flt-ti In I-'iih'ii
tftt riioun thieu '. I' "f
litis
aitii.ttgos ag.nriki Mo-. Mu
1:.
i;v 1
... of
S..11 of UUh, Neek. 1.. I.. .
iinii.tiring the mr.tU of fn
II
old Alv.-uu Moltje by In 1
1 1 t
Ie i
mnimpor letters.
lmi ,,, M
sreording lu all oxaiitiii.iiion m "If .11
his request by ,1 physicim ainl her
tmtinioiiy wiih vollieless.
ftlr l.earltie tho girl s t. Mininny
rid that nf Miss IJvei'soii the M iit -tr.tt.-
e lid It. waif elt.tr t 1 I. in Pie 11 ti
vrr.mm.itlcal lanuu.igt o-. l .i'hI the
phrasing were entlielv uneli.tr u'lrr
stle id MlHS IvVermill' llKthodj of
-peeeh and thought and Wn ' Hi'-lll
ive proof she had not .pet.-iietl ',
lir.M.t He illiei'tetl .1 fuitinr Inquiiy
to it .1111 whether w person other
than Mis Uverson might ii.ive die-
1.1 ! till letters to the ehiltl
Thirty or mom high hi lirml girls
u.i-e in court and a number of oi l. 1
n Magistrate Flten looked
iht 'ti "ver and s.mi rs.,u.
' ' I ' V'1 I'H.V lo lime Ineir e.Hr
r . 1 r 1 I .ir- uuine.l 10 lt.ie . onii.
T' i" 's to oe M'Un erv llllph isu.i
!. 'i o iriy, oq (i .(,,. , ,,, I,,,..,, . ,
tie. r P unles-, nii w-iMi to ito s It
.-, dlftorent l ih lis olllemlH '
The High School clrli luvkid a; cith
COURT EXONERATES
K EVERSON IN
Who Figured
Poison Pen Case
.ilier MiKI'lt I. iilusln-d. anil after 1
u ie tain. 1 1 1 1 1 of h. ads and lifting of
MlilotNS, tli.toed ill lUIII't I', out. Tile
older women moved up lo the varalt-d
stats
Alvena .Moltje lepeateil her state
ment that Mho hail written in. my tet
ters at Miss llverson's .lietatioli.
Soinn she litldressed to Mis.-. lA'orsull
ami otlieis lo h'er'self. She did not un
deiHlnnil the miiiiilng ol mu- of tho
aohIs ilit-tatt il to her. mu- tn, ami
Miss liVI'ISoll i-Xpl.lllle I till-Ill Sin-
-aid she oven wrote 0110 h-tter ae
eilslng heiself of being a bud girl.
All were signer! b) tho name of Mrs.
Ciovatto, a uelghlioi against whom
Miss Kvcimui hail n Krudgn and who
was recently nriecteil oil a cll.it Kn of
having wiltten tho letter and set
It'rie, with thy apologies of the uti
' thorn n s
I Altei lau-.i-r.l I-; lli-niieli, for Miss
l:erMin, had tailed In nit the gill lo
h iiii:i Ini lnslinion. Mattlslratn
I'ltcil ealleil Inm. Assist. Hit I ilslrlct
1 Attorney O10I1 and Timothy ,J. Shea.
I of counsel tor the Children's Soolotj.
into I11.1 room fur a cotisiiltatlnu.
Kelurn the ease was failed .Mrs.
.Moltje, Alvena's inotllil, pointed out
10 Magistrate Pitch, a man In the
audience who had tuilioye'd her last
Sunday, she said, by demanding ad
mittance to her Imme ns a detective.
Shu H.ild In- look aw.iy two novels h
lleiihi M. Clay on (he ground the
would snow Ah i lia's morals had It. 1 11
injiirtil l.v mr home 1. id.o'.
The in. hi in-lit an d said lie ua-
. I W all, r Si tilti.ll 1. 11 .riw th . ilii"
1 J - r 1 1 1 1 1 . t. 1 bv I. . v 1 III one 1
n'Zh,vy,No m i:tio at ha am:
OF A KM HI) MIMCIIANTMKX,
IS GUIIMAN CONTENTION.
IIPIIMN. March t. The tint u.iit j
The llngite Convention nowhere,
mentioned urimd nn ri hnnlinen wusj
advanced to. tiny an another argument
In prove the nrht in arm Is not 1
recognized by international law, In
nn article in the Cologne (iazottq to
day. Ur Tslch. Intsrnatlonal law ajipert
and the author of the nrtlelo, d -cUrod
that tho seventh convention uf The
Hague, inn?, only reougutzes thn
elianglng of mirplmntmon into men-.,r-wjir
'
Ml.-lim Vii)iii-' Unit; t'oiinil,
ti i l if I. miru W.irl.1 i
A 1. I'll AM, Mi Hit -The lii of
., , ., .. . ..
.x M-itot- h . Keoriu of this
its who iU iPI'i'dred Dee an wa.i
ietiii.1 Otli aft .0110011 iii thn Charles
Iln.r. Jon tiulow tin dnin
town, badly Jccouipostd.
,
ii n intr.
NEW MESSAGE FROM BERLIN
I DECLARES THERE IS NO LAW
I ; COVERING SUBMARINE WAR
Suggestion Conveyed That United
States Act for the Disarmament of
Allies' Merchant Ships Injury to
Neutrals a Reason for Reprisals.
BRITAIN SAID TO PROFIT
BY STAND U. S. HAS TAKEN
AHUM iTON, March H. Iht' (jcrnun ( j neriuiK'nt. in a memo
rjiuliim haifvled to-vlav lo bocretary dl State l.imsittj; by Count von Uem
1 torfi, outline J in tleull its position in regard to armed ship, reviews
I uveitis li'.-lillnir nn In il ili'-Uinn tri lirivAn vt-ilhniit u-irnlnir oil :i'rmt
.... ..j- w ...
niercli.'intiiien ot ib tiiemie, concedes
constituted, makes no provision for the use of submarines and expresses
a willingness to operate ils submarines in accordance with international '
law prevailing prior tu the war 011 the condition that Great Britain does
not violate the same laws.
In Kime quarters the memnrandiim was considered .1 recession front
Germany's hitherto iinlvndable stand. The suggestion that concessions
by the allies regarding the arming ot merchant ships might result in the
modifying ol the ( jerm.in order was taken to indicate that Germany hoped '
the United States would resume her cl:' rls to bringing the allies to agree 7 '
to disarmament ol merchantmen and permit of further discussion of the
question.
The memorandum snys that r vtdenen
CUT FROM 46 TO 21
BY HOME RULE PLAN
New S stein I'mpusevl lor
('ities of Stale Now Ikloro
l.fgislatine Aims fur Kefonn.
AMJANV. .March 1 A li-itm rule
bill leliituig lo the school sj stems In
tho several cities of tho Slate and pre
pared h) Ilie Statu IMiic.itMili PnpirU
iiiunt was iiilriitluteil in th" Legisla
ture, to-day by Senator l.ockwootl of
UroohlMi mid Assemblyman Klnciid
of Syrnr use
Tim n-'.i.siuit would provide for a
Hoard o IMue.ilioii In each en' or
not less than threo nor mote than
mint iiicinl'oi's. oxi "pt In Now York,
when- the Hoard of I elii. at Ion would
I ... r'etlne.il li-im til to ;t on rubers, but
tlore would be no i-hange In -lie
method of seht'liiig III-' I Ion I tl
Powers would lie confeircil on theso
boards, w bleh would not lie limited,
is they .ire now, under special Mat.
turn conttnlllng ih'-u utllotul urts.
I'nder the ittll the darning of mipvr
visury st.ilfe in each city woultl be
colli unit d, and iho. who have s rved
thi ieiinred probationary term woultl
li.ivi p. i m.iiit'iit employment.
A iiiiolmum schedult of salaries
I would b.
Used, but the authorities of
ich city would bi given power Ut
determltie what annual Ineieas- might
be iillnwfd teiii ht is in their tespectlve
cities and what tlie niuMinuut sal
aries should be.
'tiller liel Aail.llllll lln iniiurt.
; Walter Uiwry. a tnlnrr w is iiwurrtetl
1 tan.iiiii) duinigi-H to-tlnv h a jary In
l.l'li-ll. i New tin gi-.'s part nf the Soi.enie
I'.eirt In hi- sub piitiiin t tin tn.miie,
l,e(.twiiiin.i and eH' m Itiiih'tm.l i '."il-
nnitv l,awiy ails ili-fim I liy tiiirn.s
In the AiKlllli' I'" 'olb. n near Nunll-
to.ve. I'". Ill nil. whin a fellow woik-
,., ,r, nptd ., n inei'N Istnp. enm.nij un
enplolon nf mar ill rfu- Mil s (Jieenw aid.
," nttoiiieyeonit.-ii.ieil thi. t dinp.stiy
1(1 Hi l.'lll" l.'i e.'t iitiaiiiiiK k tu-iiiii-
,,n.- .v.teii. rtliieh wouiu have
vtntvd lh ii vcuuiuUtlii.
pre-
,r.-vv ......v.... ......11.. Ml. ... .
that international law, as at prcrrf
proves that Ilrltlsh ships armed o
' fiiHlbly for dofenne hnvo Ixxtn In-
struete.1 to act anil have, noted of
ofcnslvely nnd that they am not
ieaeeful traders, ns Itm United Htats.i
was assuted they would bo hy Sir
Cecil Sprlng-Itlce, tho Ilrltlah Am
batssndor. Tne previous declarations that JUb
maiine wnrfnre was bgnn by Ger
many In reprisal for the nnnouncoit
int!-nllon of Ort.it Ilrttain to starvo
tin- I'lvlli.iu population of the Central
Kmpltcs are reiterated
To sustain the tWinuu contentions
It Is pointed out that Uermnny agreed
to abide hy certain terms of the Deo
Itratluu ot London, but that inasmuch
as (treat llrltaln has not restrained
her actions to conform with the terms
of that Declaration Germany cannot
he expected to agree to operate under
a code which Cire.tt llrltaln disre
gards. COMPLETE TEXT OF THE GER
MAN MEMORANDUM.
The t ompleto text of the memor
andum follows:
"'Pin- Imperial Herman flovernment,
on ae.'ouiit of the filindlj- relations,
which n.ivn always existed between
the two grout nations and earnestly
desiring to continue them, wishes to
explain tho I'-Hunt question once'
more to tho American Government.
"At tho outbreak of ths war tho
t.ernian Government, acting upon thn
suggestion of tho t'nlteil States, Im
mediately expressed Its readiness to
rnni'y tho Declaration of London. At
lh.it time a (.ierm.in prizu codo had
ullendy been Issued, which waj nil
ilrolv, and without modification, basod
upon tint rules of the Declaration of
London
"tit rmanj thereby proved her will
ingness to recognize fully the existing
rules of international law which en
sure tho freedom o tho jeas for the
legitimate trade vf neutral nation,
not only nn.outj ihemsulves but atno
wlih in lllgerent tnuntiiea.'"
"tii i at Drituin, on the other nnnd,
tie. lined to ratify the Declaration of
London, and, after the outbreak of
the war, began to rcsirlot tho legiti
mate trade of the neutrals in order
to lilt Germany. The contraband pro
vlalona were yitematlcally exU&ded
I J
?3
1
3
