OUARANTEE.
Vour Money Bsxk
If You Wsnt It.
.,i Najas*???1 ?'?v. Coinma :
?*D?r?etti^0rk
'rW*?
?Sri?wne
WEATHER
Unsettled to-day; probably raja or
mow by night. Fair to morrow.
r. . Reyu't en l'i,. ?
First to Last ?the Truth: News-Editorials-Advertisements
Vol. I ANN. ???No. 25,315.
tCtl-Bara-lfht ISIS?
Tho Tribune A??*b.1
WEDNESDAY, MARCH 8, 1916.
e ?
i \\y i 'I.'V'r I" *4*? York ???*? WSBietB. Jerrae? t ?I.? .
V/.Si? V I..* 1 and tlottokra Kltewhr.? lato (rol?
House Upholds Wilson by Vote of 276 to 142
&ER1I1ANSTAKEFRBNES;
SEIZE HUI 265 IN WEST
Make Gains Along Meuse, Des?
pite Losses, and Win Posi?
tions in Bois de Carbeaux.
PREPARE FOR QREAT DRIVE
AGAINST FOE AT DOUAUMONT
Teutons Plan Clearing of Their Right Flank
Along River Before New Smash
at Verdun Is Delivered.
[By Cable to The Tribune]
Lor.dor. March T.?Preparatory to a new frontal drive from Pouau
-ont on Verdun, the Germans made progress to-day on both flanks of the
fortrws. Paris admits the lota, after repeated attacks, of positions in
he Bol? ds CerbeB?W, west of the Meuse, and of the village of Fresnos,
in the Woevrr.
"In the course of the day," says the French official statement to
-cht "the -enemy multiplied his infantry actions between Bethinrourt
?nd the Meuse. Tlic-se attacks were repulsed, except in the sector of the
M ( nrhiaux. where the enemy was able to gain a foothold.
?'In the Wr.evre the enemy occupied the village of Fresnes after an
t-rapement -.xhich cost him serious losses."
These operations, particularly west of the Meuse, have as their object
?he clearing of the right flank of the Germana along the river before the
? trt assault is launched in the Douaumont region. With their artillery
posted on the ?tag crest of hills exta-tiding from the Meuse to Forges, th?
rrerich were nV* to direct a withering fire on the Germans attacking
'; .,- nf Vacherauville. This fire was largely responsible
for their defeat on Sunday.
Ia ? thai capture of the,
?? - Homme and l'Oie hills would
it-lighten out an awkward salient
in the German line along the bend
ir. the Ml Its i? '??''' north of Verdun
indM-ould give them command of ad?
ditional roads OB which to deploy
their attack. In view of the great
roe?e?tion on the Verdun front, with ,
hundreds of thousand? of troops em- '
BBVld in a restricted area, this is of
''it highest importance.
Fron, Forces the Germar.s have de
iMbsd t. th? ?BSt Bleu? the railroad
-a we?t bank of the Meuse.
,4,e driven directly south.
BBSfl s full division Ol at least 12.000
at? itorm.d Hill No. Mi and captured
I'dttplt- i't ? "f ,heir ran
bj artillery and machine guns.
To tilt ?c-.'heast they have driven
?-SBBSsfalll a* the village of Fresnes,
t-tlT* -allea from the fortress, WBilS
the Frtr.ch bav? hem holding tenac
iostl*. although the (iermana already
?SB in possession of Manheulles and
Champion, on either side of It
(.trwia.1 Bombardment t'nabated.
Mtanwr ile '.he pounding of the heavy
fpisiof the Teutons on the French een
'.rt, en Ike I'ouaumont plain, is con
tasBag ttita undiminished violence.
Jala, the west of the Verdun region
tat Gti-mar.? have been engaged Sn
e ou rang? fg-htir.g with th? French
?r?r mine petitions.
Mai ?ay? ; ?avy fighting 1a still
**x???ii-g xxest of the Meuse, though
It mai*, M - an'..on of the gain In the
Bon d? CsjBBSBl The statement says:
"In th? Mi ,?e dllttict, the artillery
**? on the v . ?ttrrn bank of the river
?train hai *?????.? a raers Ii**ely. Beet of
the river 11 irai maintained at medium
' -?. Apart from engagements of
BaaBMBBiai rsr'/e?, no hand-to-hand
S|bt:rg xtr.'h ta? e-.emy BStUllsd
"In the Woevr? district, the village
?.Freine? w?s captured by storm early
?.%, The French are ?till
aasist their o-m in a few houses on
?'t oaj*aaTi BesaaaTJ of th? village.
Tf-t* lott more than three hundred
Pntor.irt."
Other l.alns ( laimed.
Majal ga;r? are claimed also In
-????pagr.? and in the Argonne:
;airne, our BOSitiOfl ens'
??' Malion?-de-( hampag-ne, which, the
oecjpied on February II, was
?*?d ia a surprise attack. Two
* ?? - ... vets leitet
-..
leBltaf up trie efec'. of imporUnt
n? in the Argor 11 <?. vaa
of I.a
? Brd"
B galas II r*?e- 'loried
i ent, which '
th? im'
/'-a- | fell within
i aha B*ers
' lowing
in the reg
? ? ? German?
*JB?*?'l?d ...-?r ? ? a r.-'loubt, ttOU
?,ert<rd
\?'"
',e,r,r,arded can?
naient? ?? j, ? ?, ,... . ?f Muhl
??-i;..
t -,,..,
T*H? of lie-pulse of i,rrmana
?* *** er Parlt alalaaaaall ?aid
4. -' ' ' a ' - ? s- en.e-i' ?a m .
.' riel endeavor? on
VtteVn "f *** *U*?V ?t Haut? i;he
... ' ? crater hav?
?y >r. ?rjr u- continues1 Its bom
, /" ' ' ' ?.???? of the
'.
.,,,'* tena? bombard
? ???'?.?? irmapt beat beet ?ble te
??'??./?.J a... |,?s? S. .?Iiirno 8
SLIVERS' KILLS HIMSE
AFTER LIFE OF LAUG
Noted Clown Found in C
Filled Room.
""Slivers," the clown who with
Btarnum & Bailey circus and in t
tres the world over has ami
thousands, was found dead early
morning in his room on the top floo
8<J8 West Seventy-first Street.
Shortly before 2 o'clock Lieuter
Hainmell received a telephone cal
the West Sixty-c-lghth Street sta'
asking that a patrolman he sent to
building. On his way there Patrotl
Lasby met Patrolman Lyons. The
entered the house, rushed to the
floor, where there was a strong sn
?I gas, and tried the door. This t
found barricaded, and they worked ?a
a crowbar for half nn hour befon
gave way.
As the door swung in the gun fut
almost overcame the policemen. Ly.
ran downstairs and telephoned for
ambulance, and Lasby hurried 'nto
room and opened a window.
Inside he found a man lying? dead
the floor, partly dressed. Near him ?;
a trunk, upon which was printed Fri
dS nakley, "Slivers."
SWEDES ASKEdIvILSO
TO JOIN PEACE MOV
President Declined, Stockhol
Newspaper Writer Hears.
London, March 7 - A newspaper d
patch from Stockholm states that t
Swedish government is ?aid on t
separata occasion? to have applied
thai United States to obtain Preside
Wilson's cooperation for concert
mediation toward peace, according
Reuter's Copenhagen correspondent.
"1'residei.t Wilson, who already,
an early stage of the war, had his off
rejected, declined to join the mov
ment unless requested by the belli
erents," the dispatch add-. "It
stated tha' in Stockholm and oth
neutral capitals the question is ben
discussed of forming a mediation co
ferenre iritheot tire cooperation of tl
, Tinted .States." _
GERMAN EXCHANGE
RAIDED BY WIRELES!
Kate Breaks Heavily as Heav
Sales Are Made.
Wireless orders direct from Berli
ara declarad to have caused Germ?
banks in Htm York to sell Herman era
changa? heavily yesterdn;.. The resu!
H.rording to a statement in "The Set
York l ii-e>. ? WH? that quotation
broke to the level of the big slump a
last autumn. The rate of 72 ? cent
?? tho four ssarks for chscl rassil
tancta, tour' Sal latS Ifl ''?*" .'iffrr.oon
was as low ia the lowest rale record?.
? ? first drop of ('ermar, rxehn.: ??
,. , . 'r.| activity on the par
of l.errna? banker, here ?e(] to querr?
,. .,, .. ?,.???... thil might not itidicat?
fear it Herl.ri SI to thS ultimate re?ul'
of the war. Gsrssaai htrt < ntercd *
vigorous denial to thil iBtSrprsUI 01
Oaf ths movement of CSpiUl, ??..> mg thai
? bad en opposite ?iajnificancs. i h*
transaciions proved concluilvoly, tbtj
?, .!, thai thoTS Is "" tetr in Merlin ol
?a break with the I ruteil State?.
1 ho transfers mean that va?t amount?
of ?.erman capital are being transferred
to New York I' *OM e.?,mater) yet
?rates that s-veral millions of dollars
' had been r,]?'-e.l to the credit ?,t the ac?
count? ofOrman banks during tbs
?dor. Just what ?ho transfer of funds
j, for ?s puSSlltlf ta iriaririers here.
: sine? ,? has beer, the polity OT the
(?arman ,?...- rnm.i.t to limit purchases
and eajatj-sslitures abroad as much aa
I ^.OOnttt*
"AMERICAN LEGION" SOLDIERS
HELP MARJORIES FUND.
Exhibition Camp, Toronto, Ont., Canada. March 5. 191*5
Managing Kditor New York Tribune. Mew York City.
Dear Sir: The men of the 'American Legion" the ?*"th Battalion
of the Canadian expeditionarv force, are interested in Marjor-.e Ster
rett's "Battleship Fund."
As you know, the "American Legion" is composed entirely of
officers and men born in the United States, and constitutes the first
regiment of Americans ever duly authorized to aid a foreign power.
Although we a'e on British soil and subject to the regulations of the
British army, we are first and last Americans. Our enlistment for
service with the Allies is our individual response to the cause of de?
mocracy as against the absolute world rule of a military despotism.
It is indeed gratifying to us as each day passes to receive addition.il
proof from the States of the esteem in which the "American Legion"
is held and the part we are playing in history in redeeming some of
the p'estige the United States has lost during this war. An Amer:
can brigade is now being formed by the authorization of the Ca
nadian Minister of Militia and the Jl I th. 212th and 213th Battalions
are now being recruited.
The little toudi of patriotism expressed bv "Marjoiie's Battle?
ship" idea mak*s us all kin as American?*, with the result that the
boys from their small pay haver contributed a handful of dime?. We
have been advised, hoxvever, that the United States government has
disapproved of the plan. If this is correct, will you kindly verify the
fact in order that we may make other disposition of the money col?
lected. Your early attention will oblige, yours very truly,
S. A. BEADLE,
Lieutenant, Musketry Officer "Ameruan Legion."
The Tribune has telegraphed Lieutenant Kcadl- that the only
member of the United States government to disapprove of Marjorie's
plan is Secretary of the Navy Daniels. Twenty thousand Americans
have contributed to her fund through The Tribune and more than
fifty papers across the country are receiving similar contributions
from their readers. Marjorie is confident that Congress will accept
her fund and that the U. S. S. America will be built.
Total to date. $4,242.03
Number of contributors. 10,810
The story of yesterday's development in the lund xvill be found
on page 6.
Suffrage Patriots Return
to Dance, Then Fight On
Defenders, on Furlough from Albany, Declare Whitney
Brereton Bill Will Be Reported Favorably?Ball a
Pageant of Protest at Legislators' Delay.
The suffrage ball turned into
pageant of protest at 10:10 last nigr
l'p to thnt time ?he great floor
Madison Square (larden had ben fill,
with 10,000 dancers, happy, yello?.
capped young men and women, wr
kept two bands going and made i
much noise as the circus. Then tV
music stopped. It was time for tr.
grand march but where were tr
leaders?
After f'.ve minutes the tTOtl? at th
door parted and in swept Mr?. .Tame
Lees La.dlaw, in evening dress, fol
lowed bv a travel-worn co-nnany i
street clothes. This was the Alban
contingent, just back from a hard d?
with the Senate. Judiciary Com.nrttee.
"We have to go right back!" the
shouted. "Hurry up with the gran
march, so we can catch the neru train
j The committee postponed action unti
\ to-morrow."
Legions Are Indignant.
The suffragists had been ir.Jign.in'
before. It was bad enough for the Sen
ate Judiciary Committee to call a hear
ing on the very day of the ?uffragf
ball, thinking to catch the (.u'Tragi-t?
unaware?. Now they were just plain
angry. After giving up their whole day
and sacrificing their beauty sleep they
had been informed that the committee
' would take action until to.In..
Mrs. I.aidlaw fixed her e\ c? on the
glittering "Votes for Women" in elec?
tric letters which hung over the musi
, cians' stand.
'"We'll get there yet." she said grim?
ly. "They needn't think they can tiro
' us out, or hoodwink us." The suffra
? gists applauded fierre I y and fell into
lino behind her, every eve on the magic
letters that flashed their promise fron
the end of the hall.
Mr?. Leitllew wat dressed eharminjjl;
In pale pink with a scarf of silvei
gauze over her shoulder?. The legis
lstors were not able to spoil even net
ball toilette, to say nothing of hel
bill. She carried her dress to Albanj
in a suitca?r, and dressed on the tralr
coming back at 7 o'clock.
Mrs. Norman de R. Whitehouse ar?
rived, hreatliless but pink clad, flfteen
minutes after Mrs. I.aidlaw. She haii
made a quirk dash from the train to
her home, jumped into her party dress
and back again, all in the space of half
an hour. The angTy suffragists re?
laxed their frowns a little to greet
her, and Mrs. I.aidiaxx- made room for
her at the head of the line, x?hich by
thir. tirr.e xxa.? sxveeping around the
hall three diet?.
More than frOO couplet were In line,
veong tronara and old, in satin and si I -
?er, and in Street Bait? or ?imple cotton
dresse?. That suffrage grand march
xa-a? the most democratic affair the
l.ani?n e\er BBW, With the motle;'
army of women xxlio xxaijt the vote anil
?vunt tiie guitlemi'ti at Albany to pu?
no unnecessary obstacles in the way o:'
I their getting it marched the men who
believe :?. woman mhTrage, old men
turne?! sportive had donned the little
| yelloxt et*ip? paper ?'apt. Young men,
faino i? asea, rich men and handsome
?SB all were in that line.
Husbands Bnd Wlv?TS marched to?
gether m (?-.....i * ,,rrage formation.
There x?a? Mr. I.aidlaw beside Mrs. Laid
law. Borough PresldeB! and Mr?.
Mark?. Mr. and Mr?. I ?gden Reid, Mr.
and Mr?. Frederick Nathan. Mr. anc
Mr? William G. H.'lrox, Fola I.a Fol
?ette ami ?.?.orije Middleton, and Mr.
a: I Mr? Henry Y I .ar.l
Imm?diat? I;, after the grand march
I ontintierl on pas? a, mlnmn 4
WIFE LEAVES HUSBAND
FOR BEING TOO KIND
Tells Cincinnati Court She Pre?
ferred Bullying.
[Bt Tt'.efrapV r? "I ? ? T-\ .-, '
?incinnati, March 7. A seventeen
year-old wife astorhhed oficiala ot
'he Hamilton County l'ome?tu- f'.ela
tlOBI Court to-day by sa>.ng that ?hi
had left her husband because he wsi
too kind to her.
The young wif? had L'e-i called into
court to explain h?r departure 'rom
home.
"He i? too nice." *he told Miss 1 .
McChrist**. the court's "?..man judge."
"I know he .s a model hu?band. He
0 had habits and alway? :? home
at night?. He treats me Jnsl bcauti
| fully. ju?t smiles and kisse? me v. hen I
SO) anything mean. I can't stand it
1 If he Mould bully or abuso me I would
like him better."
Mrs? Mel hristy advised ?he husband
; to bully his wife for a while and all
the trouble would end.
o
GERMAN COMMANDER
FALLS IN VERDUN DRIVE
? Von Lotterer, Chief of Artillery,
Reported Killed in Action.
london.Mareh 7. Maior Oneral ton
Lotterer. commanding the tierman ar?
tillery division at Verdun, is reported
to have been killed in ?action, saya an
Lxchanf Juiapatch from Arn?'erdam
TURKEY NOW PARLEYS
AGAINST BULGAR ALLY
Negotiations with Greece Based
on Common Balkan Interests.
Bj ? as ?to IB* IH
London. Man!. * ">. RoaSS dispatch
to "The Dally Mail** ?t?te? that the ne?
gotiation? began betweea ?ireece and
Turkey are a'tracting much attention
in 'he Itallai capita!.
!? |a - .: ; - ! that the object i? to
?afegroerd oree! end Turkish lateresta
against thi 'iar.ger of a greater Bul-,
??aria.
PREPARE N?V\
IS WARNING
BY CHURCHILi
tx-Head of Britis
Admiralty Woulc
Reappoint Fisher.
CHAR?LS BOARD
LACKS VITALIT
Regrets I tiering "Jarrin
Note"?Says Labor Prob
lern Must Be Solved.
London. March T.- WiaatOfl S. t'hure
ill, former Pirat Lord of the Admiral?
nor a colonel and fre?'n from tl
trench??, ?prang hack into the parli
nientary arena to-day in a t'arit
speech in answer to his successor
'lie Admiralty. A. .T. Balfour, who h;
'ua1 prescated the naval SStiassUS, i!
rlarng that the Admiralty lacked dri
iiig force and must be revitalise, b
fore it mm too lats by bringing bat
lord Fisher, the former Firs! 8t
L*rd, to head the Admiralty admini
traton.
Mr. Balfonr had just concluded s
op',mit?:,- statement, remarking notab
that the tonnage of the navy had bee
increased by 1,000ri'f)0 ?ince the te-jir
ring of the war. This Lad ?tro.ig!
appealed to the patriotic sentiment? <
thi HoUM of Commons, ?o that Colon?
? hurchill's criticisms weie at first cole
19 received. Hut he gradually gathere
atten'ion and app!a??te. until he close
amid a scene of much enthusiasm.
"I am sorry I must strike a jarrin
note," he said, "not of reproach, eer
sure or panic, but of warning. Whll
Aiimire.l Jellico? commands the ran
fleet it will be mameuvred in the prei
ence of th? enemy with the utmost pre
fesfional skill. We must not belie-.'
that Germany trill be content to ?Ho?
lier fleet to lie impotent and ?lerided i
thi? Kiel Canal. We ?BBS* assume tha
something ha? happened in the derma
naval yBrds and that (?ermany has corn
pleted her programme.
Must Adhere to Building Schedule.
"If our programme, too, has not beei
completed, ?olid reaaons mutt be givei
to justify tho postponement and delay
There must be no unconscious relaxa
tion of efforts at the Admiralty, for i
a shortage of naval material occurs i
will give no chance of future recovery.'
Colonel Churchill crea'ed ?ome Ft;
by a?king whether the Admiralty war
keeping the shipbuilding programme t?
the time to which ne ana the previoui
board had been working. He declare?
that {here should be no limit of laboi
in connection with th? British fle t. th?
vital units of which must be the firsl
charge on British labor resources.
"TaeSB Bet? .-hips are what the coun?
try relies on to meet and overcome any
further development Germany may have
?Bade."
Colonel Churchill specified ships el
the yueen Klizabeth type, armed with
15-inch gun?, that had been planned
daring his ?xdmlnistratieB of th? aav**.
Parliament had sanctioned fourteen
such ships xxith 15-inch gur.s. and
twelve flrera actually started before the
xxar begaa. If ail these had been safely
completed, h? declared, thru the margin
0 -,,fety had been adequately secured.
Bui BS detail? were forthcoming as to
progresa
New Programme Needed.
Besides the rapid carrxing qu?. of the
former programme respecting capital
i elonel Churchill maintained
,- ? u essential te have a farther
i.e.? program me, adding: "We mur-'.
pro?:.!" no) enlj agaiast Germanjr'afar
mor known programme, hut aiso her
unknown programme, xthich ah? sureiy
ha? been developing to rhe u'.mo*t."
Already the country had felt the
grax e ?Heart of a shortage of ammuni?
tion, and ?f there should now come a
?Bottas**? la naval equipment, he con
?? led, .t would eBBBS irreparable los?.
?'[t t tritfe ?? dates ?en?e of responsi
bilitv that thee? ?rerd? ef -?arning are
spoken," continue?! Colonel Churchill,
not too late for BtTtion, and the
\ .. - ? ? ? H hurl itself into the
'a?'? tt meeting ever rt | I rSBISBt"
Referring t? Mr. Baliour'? ?internent
that the chief reltrietiOB on r.aval con
its labor. Colonel Churchill
d? dared that BhSS the na\y '-?a? at
stake there eoald be no limitation by
If the Kir?t I till Ad?
mirait*/ found ?-*?." thea it
?ontlnurtl in pafe 3 tolumn ?
Henry James
the Grat?! Wir flenr*. James ? f.:r gi-.e a:r interview
_* ?i i one txceeHoa. On iii?. last risM to America ia enterpr -
lag womSB ?o: hin*, lo 'talk tor publication." Her ^o:/ of It
-, a nexl Saiaatay'l Tribune.
PriJ it for the intimate side!:?*.-** OH the sreat writer, III
:;r.preaa:.'n of h,::i that you do not get from his work?. Anal
tell vnur newsdealer to-day that you want ?.our iu.'d.y Tribune
_ever-. ?.jr.da'-. He'll deliver t at >our door.
First to Lett?the Truth:
\e*s?Editorials?Advertisement*.
M-mrx. of th. Ajd't B:r.oi ci ClrxuJttlon. ?
KILLS McLEMORE WARNING
AFTER SIX HOURS' DEBATE;
93 REPUBLICANS GIVE AID
THREE ROLLCALLS SETTLE
RESOLUTION'S FATE
On the ?nsl vote to table the McLemore resolution, the figures
were:
Dem. Rep. I'rog. Ind Soi Total
Ayes . . . 18.' ^3 1 ? ? :7b
Nays . . . . 2i 102 5 I 1 14:
Paired and not voting?17.
The iirat and ct~ucial vote in the House was on the call for the
previous question, which meant that, if the previous question were
ordered, the McLemore resolution would not be open to amendment
or unlimited debate. On this vote the Administtation won by *tS6
to 160.
Then came the ?.ote on the adoption of the special rule limit?
ing discussion of the resolution to four hours. On this the Admin?
istration won by 271 to 1J8.
SAYS BERLIN LIE
IN ARABIC N01
Britain Makes Charge
Reply to Baralong
Accusation.
London, March 7. The British r
to the lierinan noto sent throuzh
Arnencan Kmbtttf la Berlin In Jf
ary rejecting the British gi.vernrne
offer for an Inrtstigatiofl of the Ri
long case by a court en . ? ?
American naval officer? if thf dons
?anuid submit the sinking of the An
to the same tribunal, and announi
Germany'a intention to adopt mease
dt reprisal, was Issued to.-nigh*. I
t'or transmission to Ambassadur (1er
I in Rerlln through Walter Hinea Pi
the American Ambassador in I.on.:
The note says the German rarste)
the sinking of the Arabic not only
t inherently improbable, but direc
contrary to all the evidence the? Brir
government ponesses from a la
number of independent and trustw
thy witnesses.
"What i* the courter evidence
which the German government relier
says the note, "liai ?he captain of I
submarine been *r:e,i f?r murder'' I
he even been accused of any de.- I irk
in German eyes is not meritorious?
as his majesty's government belie
he sunk the Arabic without wnrning,
the (ierman government so far agi
with the rest of the world as to *r?
that action as a crime* If they .
why should they hesitate tu runder
the sinking of the Lusitania? If rh
.?o not, why investigate the caso of I
Arabic?"
Of the German version of the atta
on the submarine stranded on the lia
ish roa?t, ?vhich it was also propo?
to submit to the American court, t
note says:
"In any case, it is who!!;.- ??.?,* r
There ?vas no engagement. Tas Briti
submarine hud been four hours i
shore before the ??erman destroye
attacked her. Her crew in endeavor.!
'.. -me thcnsohrcs wora shot at in tl
water by machine guns and ?.hrapm
Thu Incident took place in 'he piro
toes of I'aiiKh .1.'?rovers. It ?-a;-. I
proved by superabundant testimon
bo'h British and neutral."
The Baralong, a British patrol boa
sank a German sabstarias last fal
and allegations were marie that m?
from the Baraio: g afterward kill?
member? of the German submarir
crow while thaw were in the watot
on bonrd the America?- Itaasacr Nie?
sian, which had picked them up
Kxtreme of German Humanity.
"To sink a merchant. \es-?
the note, "without examining whoths
she s a lawful prir.e; to ,-?
ser.ger? and ere'..- to losvi ' t si
and endure all the hardsh pa and dai
gers of a ?TO Igt ' ""? baattS OVO
stormy seas, se.-rrs to his majesty'
government Uj a!wa;. s be illegal, sftai
emol and aoatatisacs rr,-jrd? rous. Th;
procedure. nevertheless, r'-rr< ???-..'.
the high ?' StOI r.ark '?." Ge-rr.an ?. j
mar.rly in .her conduct of I .
warfare. ar<l It was not thotrofor? pro
posed to refer to it ;n the inbunai -de
signed to daal va.'h the three ?pecirli
ou'rages of peculiar atrocities."
In the Baal case, ths r.o'e ?ay?, th?
atrocity consisted in no*, jr.err'.y , ,,-?
.: i.e .r?u to take to the boats
iriag upon them afterward
ri?e? and shrapnel, killing om. mar.'a'nii
?eserel;. wounding the captain u' ;
??? M m'lier men. ?In this - .' ;?
note add?, the German goverr.mer ?
ast STOB pretend to have made any
?? :r.g in tOS i.ature of an investiga?
tion.
The (ierman conclusions regarding
the Bara'.or.g case, th? r.nr? continues,
not only aie quite incon-istent with
thoie ths Brittas government had ar
- ? : at. but ?era baae.i on -tatement?
iaconaiatoat with each other. Th?
witness who.? anteceder.*? the Bl
naval authorities have been able to
asasaiao. the r.o'e says, wgj not even
at ?ca when 'he e-ents "of which he
was claimed to have been sfl c.'
MM occurred."
Ir.qurry into the foar coBtoiaporar**
case?, says ths i.ote. would enable the
world to judge between German and
i'.r tiah method? of warfare.
Girl Held in Peekskill Murder.
MISS Ka'.herre [ft las. of Peek??.'.'.
was held as an eccessory before the
fact by Coroner Foahay yesterday fol?
lowing ar. :".?;:??'. into the recent mur?
der cf I rank < ur.r.rncham :n Peekskill.
?ur.r.rr.gham was shot whle passing Miaa
Irvine's home. It is charged that ?leorge
Dessone hit h;m while rirrrg at a rifa
sui*or. The police are hunting Dca- i
sont.
WILSON TO AWAIT
NEWSEAO?TRAG1
Will Not Press U Boat l)i*
pute unless More Amer
icans Lose Lives.
f rors T ? 7- , ? n ,r,til ?
Washington, March 7 i're? lei
Wilson believes hi? hands ?re now fre
to pr?sssats the ??n^e Bgaiaat German?
Immediately before him is the questio
OC accepting or rejecting ( omit vo
flernt'orff'g prupoted "settlrmen?'' ?
the Luaitaala controversy.
Von Dcrnstorff presented his go? err
asent? off,r la "recognize liability" t
pay indemnity a fev,- day? ?fte
the announcement of the new submi
fine policy. Though acceptable in il
i ?elf, Carman'.'? propo??! cannot he ac
cepted because of the President's helle
?hat no guarantee BOB evitr? that th
I II tanta outrage ?rill not be repeate.;
Trie LusKaala cn?t is, therefor?
closely hound rip with the new issu
! raited by th? Mirnvinrerl intention o
the (tarnten geveniaasflt ta al
merchar.tm. n trithoul regard to thei
rights under international law. In rs
?cting the Lusitania offer, Presiden
Wilson will be obliged t.. ret
protest t.f th.s go"er;imen' agninst thi
propo.ed c.impaiirti of lawlessne*?.
Order Inxalldales Concession.
How t1 e oja? ? i to be at-i roael s?
the vate Department has not pel de
elded Secretar?? Lansing intimated to
day tha'. a? might b? i II
until a concrete rasp had arisen tha
is, until Geraten*? ?ink? a vessel III?
gaily, under such nrcumfanee? a? U
threaten *'ie right? of ?he L'aited State)
or it? eitiseas. 11 la pointed sat, how
? rar, thai thi I. .- '.inia rate B1
pending, an.) thai Mr Lansing l? justi
? id in calling ? . ttei tioa of th?
German government to the fact thai
Ural Voric. ? ?? irai;.-" giVBC
iast ? ?i 'i.r that thi crii
ti" repeated ha? he?n invalidated bj
the new lubmarina order.
A? off? -? ? ? *?*??? Db
pnrtmert :. a* *pa OB the whole ques
i tion. President Wilson has ?...imn;
?personal control of r-a,'"' a1 on?, l.u'
, .... ?f tha tusti? ia l oagresi
he ha? not had time to advise Secretary
Lacing as te tha course he inter,
? .r- ..
It Is known tha I'resident has pa??ed
judgment on 'he "secret orders" which
r.re a par: of th? Geraten lebauria?
declaration and are alleged to justif**
? '.erman position that msrchsBtaien
"armed I ''roe" do rot exi?t The
... ..... . ? (
? ? ? seere? i,-iler?. ar? a !! hold
? ? lo BBt ?SBBse the extreme
measur? - '. ? - . r reOOet a.
Colonel House f? understood te 'a-.*
assured P ? that 1 t?r
s r, ol bluffing, ? ar sub
B progi m? v il] be carried cut
? er the United State? apprtv?< sf
it or rot, and that no more "conces?
sions" will be. mtde .;. the Lusitania
case.
Hejer-tion Max Bring Break.
If, therefor?-, th? I'r?>siden'. carri??
rejecting ?'"?' latest
-ettlement and dr-roiir.c.r.g
? i German ?.?bmann" declaration as
::>gal. he will do ?o in the belief that
I ?ading totvard a rupture.
Among hi-fi ? tat It
i i te be readv to hr.H-. *Hh Gerasa
rather ?.ira-, larreacter ;??rj?
I .?????.' ' ?'
fresa to a triumphs
It is generally admitted that until
?? rt act I a
? breaking point
? ; Trie Leaitafl a
i ate. ?a an ?l?*n?nt of danger to the
good relatie - of I ? two (overamente,
. -;? Similarly, it i? :n?t>n
. ?ivshl? that e ther the President or
the ?German ge ? I feres a
I raak on the abstract question of the
r.gh: of merehaatiaefl to arm..
There are two factors of safe
that Gersaai - ? lad las U-feeet
? ar lloBg f? - stivi line?
? ? rdush
vould indicate. This eBBTSS il fore
> ..wed IB th? '"?el?
: vt be torpedoed u.ider the new or
der unless arsaaaseat is "preved."
which the
Presitient ?rcmliJ hav? r.o chele? hut te
red probable Germany
would ask t.me to examine the er l
I-.. uce, to dotera re whether the arm?
was actually offen*.?e or defen
If 1 ? - adduced by the
; aXatsi ihtnrad r.o ...tensive use
was made of th? gu: ?. Il il more than
likelv that ?.erman/ x.ould diSBVO ?
set and that the disa'o??al, would be
accepted. I
33 Democrats Dec?an
Against Wilson
Programme.
3 ROLLCALLS
DECIDE ISSUE
New lest l-.xpei-tcd ?i
Senate?President
Pleased.
i ? . t ? , . r rl
Wt*rhingt>?Mi, Man?? ;. Bj i \i>t
o?f 276 t.. 11.; ti,.- ii . BaprtaTaag
tatives ?o day kilM th?- .*?!.? L.-mor
resolution a anting v .??
armed t?t-TI?tr*-r?*r.t -hip .
The \ ota fo lowad i ?.? r. -.
of stirring and turbulent dot>at. . Ii
if r-vory poassibls angli? of the -it-its
tion was digraawad, patriuti-m kj
voked, Um horrors of War depute?
? anal partisanship condemned. T?
I poraphrsias the spaech ?f ?Xopraa-M
Itativa Betau. <>f Alabama, tin
Hun??' finally v..(<?.i G. "stand witl
I Um "'resident, riot the Kaiser; witl
Secretary Lansing, i...t A'iiha?Kni'm
'?on IWn>t?.rfT.''
The House's artlon fol'ow* . |oM pi
, 111 a ? of the Senate, which, l>y a \oU
of almost .", tai 1, ?!??-j?it*? a shr<?w<
' pr.riiametitarv trick hy Senat??'
(?ore l.efogging tho issue, declined t'
interfer? with tho President in hir
c'.nduot of intt?rnati?nal afTair- .
Republican Aid I nei|>ecte?l.
?Both houses have now wipavi oil
thpir calendars the re?,i!ritioiis, fal??
report.? of who*?? Mreriarth havi
1 reached Merlin, and stiffened (1er
many in her resistance tu tho ile
li'an.Js of the United State?.
Tho majority of 1.1.'' in favor of
the Pr?sider.t ?*xcels th?' most san?
guine hopes of t!;e Administration.
1' uas unexpected that I'epulilirans
should pivo such generous rapport.
III.' ninety member? of the minority
who rrotod to tabla th<? r. oluUotl far
outweighed th?- thirty four I??-m?.
??rats who vot.-d again ' :t.
On the first, vote, which was a par?
liamentary firopo?itio. to j.rr-.ent
opamiag the McLemore r< solution to
amendment and unlirnit? d <lebat?\ tho
Administration forces carried tho
day, tSt to 160. On that ItM l??nio
??rats. ?"5 Republicana and one Pro?
gressive toted t" support th?- Ad
nunistratioi,. T-.v??r.t.v one l>?mo
< rats, 1S2 Republicans, five Pl'OgrWi
si?. .??=. or,e ind?;pei..|. r I ar.d Repiosen
tative London, the Ion? Bo**iffJi I of
the House, voted against it.
This was the crucial vote of the
fight, tho on?- point on which Admis?
?at,on leaders were uncertain.
With victory in hand they moved on
to the next proportion, the adoption
of ? special rule for four hours' <li?a
n of the McLemore resolution.
Again 'hey earned Um day. this
time HT! to j:;-, and then pr.-he.i
their \?rt'.rv to a rondusion l?y
tabling the MeLtHiiore resoluUoi . J7*'
to 142.
Hy this majority a!! chance of re
vivinj? the issue was buried <i"ep. and
the Administration is now trot %9
pur-ue He negotiations with i.rr
. ?-topped several da\s ago,
when the gossip of tita i apitol cloak
rooms embarrassed the President.
Adni?r.:.-*.ra':.?n Itodtri belie?.?- ths'.
the s;z?? of the majority will have
the desired effect, upon the German
Poraigii Oftice, whi'-h had beer, to?.
much encouraged by ( ongre.?sional
disaffection.
pr>-- I? ? ? (a. r,' . c. '..er.'.
hear?l ths *?arlj rooalta of ths '.otln-j
? .? ? ...? ? ? : room at I i B '??**
Rowae, with ?oira Of ?'-' ? shine'
ffUUped about ! .... We to.fi | er- h?
was much ??ratified ? ' ?;rjort
of fonjfre'?.
Althouffh th? final t*\*Xt BS1I late In
tKe fiay. the true t??' of %'re-g'r. cam?
? o?.r. a'-- ?????'. Then, aft?r "* raty
minutes' debate, tie Hou?e \oted th
. -, ...? ? to II ' The ??
tire strategy of the oppos ties ?it a*ass>
'.red or, beatuiff the prevoui questior.
would have allo-aci the o?Vr ?.
of a itraight resolution of warninf.
Democrats as well oa Republicana who
s.ded with ths Ada? '??'??"?'?'? w'r**
well aware of the plan aid **?re pre?
pared for the fir-?, rollcall.
.New T?t r.iptxte? Ira Senate.
Representative Gardner, of Masaa
ei.u-e'.ts. who ?roted to table the Mc?
Lemore resolution and to order the
previoua qeestlon, exposed the plana
of the F.? publican raiaeritT Ky ?*'
feat.n,; the preriou, question, it --ou'
have been possible to ^irow the d^
cussion of tho reaoluUon into com
