FINANCIAL EDITION
NIGHT
EXTRA
NIGHT
EXTJRA
rot.H.-0.151
PlIILADELrniA. "WEDNESDAY, MAROII 3, 1SUG.
Cortmoni, 1010, 11 ins Polio Lidou CourANt.
PRICE ONE CENT
fjjjWN PRINCE
SMASHE
;.AL0NG MEUSE
Irmans Take Heights
iypiy -;-,,,
West 01 veruuu
pTURE 4000 FRENCH
-. 'i",.i.issr"
MyoOdS aim "
West 01 ttiver
pc .... nnnn "nutcracker" 1ms
IP? f ..in nnPn Hchtlv umm- Vcr-
'Mud Itl buii - --"-- -
The Crown Prlnco lias tnuen mo
"25;. . . r,i, nnd Cunlcres. This
al tho Gorman lines to a point four
.i -,hivpst of Verdun.
ifrhe village of Regncvlllo, seven miles
lirthwMt of Verdun, wis occupied by
'ESS. . . ., t iim rim-man enclrcl iik
S Berlin also announced tlio cap
7? of tho village of Forges, a mile
- - mi. ,nhnon Inqq lmrl Tirn.
iSt'OI KCgnevuiu. ...,
ili, . .... .,iii,i ,. flm lfrpnnli.
Iwcst of Rcgnovlllo, on the bank of
Tr.,r... hn Germans stormed tho
French front below Bcthlncourt, on a
ffit of about 3Wi miles for a depth of
jSriy two miles, the German OHlce re
in. . m.. o-ninn rlMlmrd for tho
tortea. u ... - ---
Teutons during last nlghfri fighting
Ire the largest slnco tho llrst days of
Si's Verdun offensive.
E'fae left Jaw or mo iicnnan inuuiimu
tressed forward In the Woevre region,
.? ,.. ..HihniKt nf Vnrdtin. Berlin
12 nuiea ""- .--.-...
Sported that tho French have been
driven out of the few remaining houses
C u-IJ I- T.Vnanna TIlB town ltSClf
uejr new .- -
ffnow entirely In German hands.
(The French war umco reporien vio-7L.-.i.nmniit
nf T-Vnnph nosltlona
leni.uu'"""'"'"
JJUls region, but said no Important
jffluitry actions occurred. It is believed
.1ti. ,u. Uiwinnli mni'filv wlHirlrnw
from the village of Regnovlllo, lying on
ip.
. ,i .i.ltn.J 41, n fiinhifn nf mniA
n 000 prisoners and 10 cannon In
tfie fighting northwest and southeast
jifA'erdun.
jfy BERLIN, March 8.
In their oneratlons against Verdun on
thefwtat bank of tho Mcuso, German
troops have, captured 3339 prisoners and
tikea.the villages of Forges and Regne-
Tllljlja'ljcl, tha heights of Rnbon and
dtonlerei
By-Jlhelr advances to and capture of
Cualeres heights they aro now less thin
jwr miles from Verdun on Its northwest
front
HThe official renort announcing tho do-
tldad German gains about Verdun also
ItUtes that the French launched an nt-
ttct'ln tho Champagne region last night,
UuTtnttle still being in progress.
HFoDowtns Is the text of the ofllclal
inpan:
:"At 1() o'clock last night the French do
Irrered a counter attack against our posi
tion to the east of Malsons do Cham
pjjne. Iland gronado lighting still con
tinues, but otherwise tho attack was com
tMeiy repulsed.
(Via order to Improve now lines, -which
iit been pushed forward on the right
bank1 of the Mouse, across the southern
(lopes of Cote De Talou, Cote Do Poivro
ppper Heights) and Douaumont. enemy
.positions on tho left bank of the Meuso
WJooth sides of Forges Brook, below
Bethlncourt, were Btormcd over a width of
!.! 'miles.
RThe enemy positions were penetrated
distance of one mllo and one-olgbtb
Tb Milages of Forges and Ilegne villa and
Ilabon and Cumleres forests nro now In
our possession, Counter-attacks by the
French agalpat the southern fringes of
these Woods wrft rpnnlHPil. Rnnirlllnnrv
losses were Inflicted upon tho French, a
treat part of the occupants of the cap
tured positions being killed. Fifty-eight
emcers, 3377 men, 10 cannon and much
other material waB captured.
In, the Woevro region the French have
wen driven out of the last of tho houses
hch they retained when wo captured
tbvvluago of Fresnes. The number of
prisoners there has been increased to 11
acers and more than 700 men. A few
gschlne guns were captured.
sw aeroplane squadrons dropped
!1. v upon villages west of A'erdun,
jaicn were occupied by enemy troops."
J PARIS, March 8.
tiao recapture ot some trench sections
Continued on I'aee l'our. Column Tho
f . ! .
S-TttiS WEATHER
ii
IS?! ii1" bs Bomawhat o' a potpourri
ijTf, '" wy ot weatner. ir tne wirni
j?w?re promlsud "(Its" of snow, and
i.T?5n,? haU nU day "promised" Just
iln Iolks Bre "sood," Old Man Weather
,"Wsv them everything he has. Tho
aS -?m ?u,reau '"n'1 HUre whether the
&,'" hold or not,
SffJ? pulled up ,nelr shades today nnd
" out on about as cheerful u morn
ui'. "a? Kced the week so far. That
HmL0nf "kea that klnu ceer.
wnj eky was done up In a thick, muddy
tff& .!J gray and tha atmosphere, not
SfS uHtne 'n tho way ot Bloom, seemed
Wnk lhv a yeow, blackish mist.
t?S,VPrfi!rmance "tarted about the time
-jSJf! boy unlocked the dgor. Act I
SSTBii . lkelcl1 ' rain. This changed
?! at about "aeroplane height" and
ffirSfv J1, merr"y " th roofs all over
loftSt .lsd lt ,c" Pattering on common
WGJ,UlnB t0 Bhe'ter In tho streets
S'L";' ''a" was too good to last,
gSS&ct II ume on In a thick flurry of
mjytnowflakes-the kind of a storm
SM- ; --.. onuw. rta ono would
SMip J?u?;mct today that thla would
r?7 w"w oauwifroUl. We hope
Bjv.ii.Hi ,a supposed to bo tho last
S After thai win .i. t,..,..
wag tn the trees.
t up.
i . FORECAST
t Philatltllnhin nn.l ...,f...'..
t hi nit?: :"'",.""-t
10ST AND POUND
a?wtrt'wrf'i?sdr ',
ty iuA,":zs- -a ,K""i;."',
't wturuad to self lllkit "ST'
w
1 Lt ao4 tfumti Ad a fm
AIM LEMSMTION TO STOP
WlLliAM) AND JIOUAN FItillT
Albany Resolution Clnlma Promoters
Aro Not Members of Club
ALBANY. N. Y Mnrch g. Legislation
aimed at the Hlnto Athletic Commission
nnd for the purpose of prohibiting the
Wlltnrd-Morau bout, scheduled for Mnrch
2S, was nt tempted through two resolu
tions offered by Senator John tl. Iinnnt
gan nnd Assemblyman Mnrtln XtcOuc.
Tho McCuo resolution seeks Ui stop
tho prospective boxing exhibition, be
cause It Is to Inko place under the man
agement of promoters who nro not bona
lido members of tho athletic club, under
whoso auspices tho contest Is to bo held.
CHEMICAL PLANT,
MAKING WAR-AIDS,
BLOWN TO ATOMS
Niagara Factory Wrecked
by Fire and Blasts Still
Unconquered
LOSS MAY BE $500,000
NIAGARA FALLS. N Y March R.
The iimuufactuilng plnnt of the Niagara
Klectro-Chemlcal Company Is In ruins to
day as tho result of a series of explosions
and nro which started shortly after mid
night, continued today, nnd which nro not
yet conquered.
Tho storngo plant now Is threatened,
with little hope of saving It, as flro ap
paratus and chemical devices have proved
useless In tho hands of tho army of fire
lighters. One man Is dead and another Is
seriously Injured.
The Iho Is declared by odlclals of the
company to have been staited by foreign
agents. The company Is filling a war
order for nitrates, used in the manufac
ture of powder.
The whole works arc valued at ? 1,000,
000. Tho loss so far Is estimated at
5500,000.
. t fkXu new explosions.
The first explosion followed an outbreak
of fire Bhortly before midnight, and others
occurred Intermittently until shortly bo
fore D o'clock this morning, when eight
blasts of tremendous forco shattered the
shell of tho burning plant and scattered
twisted, flaming debris ocr n wldo area.
Firemen concentrated their efforts on sav
ing the storage house, containing high ex
plosives. Tho room In which the explosives aro
stored Is separated from the burning
building by n thick wall, but tho flro doors
were burned through and nn explosion
dwnrflng nil earlier ones was momentarily
expected. Dr. H. B. Carvnth, works man
ager, was preparing a statement regarding
the flro when tho new danger developed
Continued an I'nne Two, Column Two
FRESH SNOWSTORM BRINGS MORNING
nMy'
-?$'
wScaar . t; . - " - .', '
V M'inMMWbW Hii) r '
mPz&rWwH- i ' ' ii&i ' .. -V ,
So dense was tho gloom that settled over tho city jhortly before 11 a. m. that artificial light was sen
erally resorted to and office buildings twinkled with tho lights seen ordinarily only at dusk. This is a
view looking southwest from tho United Gas Improvement Company's Building.
NUOVETRUPPEINVIATE
DALL'ITALIA A VAL0NA
II Generale Piacentini Comanda
le Forze Italiane in Albania'.
Si Attende l'Attacco
Lo forze itnllauo die difendono la basa
liavnle culla costa njbancse morldlonale,
cloe' Valona, sono state reccntemopte raf
forzate da nuovo truppe Inviato cola', coma
afferma un dlspacclo da noma. Nel
clrcoll mllltnrl Italian! si attende, cie la
guarnleione dl Valona sla presto uttuccata
dalle forzo austrlacho. o perclo' esfca si pre
para alia dlfewi. St sa cho grandl lavori
sono statl complutl per o.uoto,
Ot'Bl II Mlnlstero delta. Guerra ha an
nunclato che II comando delle forzo Ital
iano operant! neli'AUanla e' stato altldato
al tenento general Hettlmlo Plaoentinl, a
cul e" ora ultldata la dlfesa dl Valona. II
generale Piacentini e' una del mlgllorl cho
abbla l'ltalla. ligll era comandante della
dlvlslono territorial dl Napoll quando
soopplo' la guerra con 1'Austrla o fu In
viato alia, fropte Ivl si dUtlnse e guad
agno' la promozlone, al erado dl oorpo
d'armata neU'AlbanU nirldlonato.
IVordlne del glorpo del Boclallatl dl
sflducii nell'operu del Mlnlstero Salandra
e" stato reeplnto oggl dulla Carptro
Uallana con 381 oU contrarll e 20
fnvorevoll.
(Leggro In pasl'ia le utlme e plu'
dettagllato aotUIe nulla suerro, ip
Itallano.)
Machinists Vote to Strike ,
FRANKLIN. I'a.. March 8.--Machln-Ists
omployd ty the Chicago Pnumatlo
Tool and the Colburn Machine Tool Pro
ducers' Supply Companies today voted
unanimously for strtka. They demanded
a, SO pr ot. Ifterjga In wages, an lsht.
tour fey and iwtter fel oondltlona. Th?
con)J)al v soml war or,1'ra t0 "W
JUDGE E. ft GARY
INDICTED BY JURY
tN WAGES PROBE
Six Steel Companies Also
Accused of Violating
Anti-Trust Law
STRIKE CAUSES ACTION
Conspiracy to Lower tho Pay
of Common Laborers
Charged
YOUNOSTOUW. O.. Mnrrli 8 Judgo
Klbcrt H. ciary. chnltnmu ft lh wl
Directors of tho United Stal.n f. I iVi
porntlon, nnd six Inrgo companies were
Indleted by the Mahoning County Orand
Jury today accused of violation of tho Val
entino untl-tuist act, an Ohio law, nnd
with conspiring to keep down tho wages'
of common laborers.
Tho following Bust Youtiffstown steel
companies were Indicted:
Tho Youngstown Sheet nnd Tubo Com
pany. Tho Republic Iron nnd Steel Company.
The Ilrlar Tl III Steel Company.
Tho Youngstown Iron nnd Steel Com
pany. The L'nltcd States Steel Corporation.
The t'arneglo Steel Company.
Tho Indictments grow out nf the East
Youngstown riot of January 7, In which
I llxcs were lost, 37 persons Injured and
property damage of $1,000,000 sustained.
The CJrnnd Jury, nfter thoroughly prob
ing the strike and its cause, returned the
indictments.
The Orand Jury charges specifically
that Section 0300 of the Ohio statutes was
violated. In thnt tho steel companies com
bined to keen down tho wages of common
laborers.
There nro 62 counts in tho Indictment
against Clary and the steel companies.
In a report on the strlko ami riot, tho
Grand Jury censured Mayor W. If. Cun
ningham and tho pollco force ot East
Youngstown. Tho report said Cunning
ham nnd the police force wero "inclllelent"
nnd "unworthy to hold ofllce."
Says Two Men Beat Him; Asks $.1000
Suit to recover $5000 damages for al
leged assault nnd battery was brought
today by Hoy F. Smith, a restaurant pro
prietor, of 1738 Falrmount nvenue, ngnlnst
IMchard Behan and James Cox, In Court
of Common Pleas No. 1. Smith avers thnt
on November 14 last tho defendants en
tered his restaurant nnd attacked him.
They beat him violently on tho head and
fnce, ho says, and after knocking him to
tho floor kicked him. Judgo Patterson
Issued capiases for tho arrest of the de
fendants, fixing ball nt 5250 each.
i' V" ' "' -' 'ij'
SLAVS LOSE TRENCHES
IN TARN0P0L REGION
Austrians Capture 1000 Yards.
Occupy Vacated
Positions
nranu.v, Jiarch 8.
Capture of 1000 yard3 of trenches from
tho Russians northwest of Tamopol was
announced In an olllclal statement from
the Austrian War Olllce, telegraphed hero
today.
"Detachments of Archduke Joseph Fer
dinand's army, near Karlplloseku, drove
tho enemy from Intrenched positions and
lodged themselves In it, said tho olllclal
statement.
"Northwest of Tarnopol on Austro-Hun-garlan
detachment drove tho Russians
from 1000 yards of trenches, which wero
then IllleU up." ,,., j ...
Tne upnnan utsneru own idqucu mu
following report:
"Local attacks by the Russians at sev
eral points were all repulsed.
'Our aviators bombarded with good
results the railway between LJachowltschl
(south of Baranvitch) and ,unno,"
SIORdENTHAU TO IlESIW
IF WILSON WILLS IT
Ambassador Ready to Remain Here if
President Needs Him
WASHINGTON. March 8. The belief
prevailed in ofllclal circles today that Am
bassador Jlenry Morgenthau would resign
his post to serve President Wilson during
tlte coming presidential campaign.
Mr. Morgenthau, who came to Washing
ton today, said that If the White Houne
decided he oould be of more service to
the President by remaining In thU coun
try, he would resign bh post The deel
sion, he said, was entirely MP to Preldnt
Wlhjon.
SLUSH FUND PllOISfSUS DELVE
INTO KKCOKUS OK 11KKWKUS
Mny Consume Week in Examining
Confidential Piles
PITTSIlflinit, Mnrch 8 t'nlhlcr
rupted by court proceedings, United Htntei
Attorney E. Lowry Humes, with nsslslnnt
attorneys nnd ilnvcrnmcnt agents, settled
down again today tn examine Ihe seized
confidential flics of tho United States
Brewers' Association of N'cw York.
At noon (iovernment olllclnls had fin
ished opening and examining four ot tho
eight packing raws filled with documents.
There ale 1 5 tn 20 bulky paper packages,
each containing several hundred separate
papers In each rase.
TWINING PLAN
STIRS FIGHT IN
Director's Suggestions
Doomed to Oblivion, Op
ponents Believe
REPORT EXPECTED TODAY
Organization Leaders
Exchange Verbal Shots
MAYOR SMITH
"The statement of the senior
Senator will be understood by tho
public to bo an attempt to inject
politics into a controversy the ne
cessity for which, at thin time, is
not apparent."
SENATOR VARB
"Wouldn't Senator Penrose have
been serving better the citizens of
Philadelphia nnd the State of
Pennsylvania had ho occupied his
empty seat in the United States
Senate tho latter part of last
week?"
SENATOR PENROSE
"I hope that the loan bill will
provide the necessary amount to
put through tho Taylor plan in its
entirety, in order that every sec
tion of the city may be cared for
without discrimination."
Wi'h the defeat of tho Twining emas
culated transit plans virtually assured as
a result of tho wave ot protest which
swept over tho city during the last four
days, the complete report of tho Transit
Director explaining In detnll his reasons
for recommending drastic changes in tho
Taylor plan Is expected to bo placed bo-
Cnntlnuetl nn Pnce Klglit, Column Ono
PALL OF DARKNESS
FARMER KILLS CHILD;
THINKS GIRL BURGLAR
Mistaking Foster Daughter for
Thief, Man Fires
Fatal Shot
WASHINGTON, Pa.. March 8 Mistak
ing soven-ycar-old fostcr-onughtcr. Pella,
for n burglar Aithur dray, a wealthy
farmer residing nt Zedlker, a few miles
east of hero, shot and killed tho child last
night. Ilrokcn-hearted, as a rrault of
the tragedy, Oray was arrested today on
a Coroner's warrant. He has not been
Jailed and will furnish ball some tlmo to
day to await tho result of the Coroner's
investigation.
Numerous robberies have recently been
committed near Zedlker. and tlray, like
other farmers, had a rifle beside his bed
as a precaution. Shortly after 11 o'clock.
Oray was suddenly awakened by hearing
bonie one prowling about the house. Seiz
ing his rifle he Investigated. Peering
down tho Jiall io uaw a figure hurrying
apparently toward a rear room. Without
a word of warning lie raised his gun and
fired. The child's fccream told hlii) of his
mistake. Gray rushed to a nearby physi
cian, but ills efforts were of no avail, as
the bullet had entered the chlld'u brain,
causing death an hour later.
It is apparent that Della Gray had
either been walking in her sleep pr had
been frightened by the high wind pt last
night and was seeking companionship on
the second floor, her bedroom being on
the third story.
Lititz Yotea $93,000 School Bonds
LANCASTER. Pa., March 8. By an
overwhelming vote. Lltltz lias authorized
the Borough School Board to lswie 195.000
In bqtyls for the purpose of erecting A
handsome school twuo in vh(-h ail of the
borough schools will be located.
BERLIN EXPLAINS
REASON FOR NEW
U-BOAT DECREE
Bernstorff Gives Lansing
Note Accusing British of
Making Submarine
War Necessary
U. S. STAND AIDS FOES
Germany Asserts Neutral Pas
sengers Allow England to
Arm Liners for Offensive
Purposes
WAHIIIN'dTO.V. March 8.
The fulled States today received from
Count Von Ilerlistorff. the ncrnuin Am
bassador, a complete detailed explanation
of Its orders to submarine enmmnuders
to sink armed merchantmen without warn
ing. This ("iphinntlon. cmorlng the tier
man sldo of the conti civet ay. was ex
planatory of the iiiinnunremeut ptevlously
iccelcd by Iho Kioto Department from
norllu and. accord I iik t the Ambassador,
was Intended tn clear up what has been
cnnsldoied as doubtful points by the
I'nlted .States, and especially tn bIiow that
the new plans of tho Clerninn i Iovernment
In no way nbrldpe or conflict with the
nssurances Riven to this Government,
Tho Ambassador was with Secretary
I.anslm; for less than live minutes. On
lcnvluK he said that he believed the com
munication would make plain Just exnotly
what (lerinauy planned to do. Ho said
that he had asked Secretary Lansing for
pet mission to mnke the document public
nnd that haltiK been granted he would
do' so shortly.
"This communication." the Ambassador
explained, "Is Intended to set forth the
Herman position In the nrmeil merchant
men controversy. It Is In no sense a now
order or orders but It simply on nnipll
flcntlon of the orders that went Into effect
on the first of this month."
Following Is the text of the memoran
dum handed Secretary Lansing by Count
Von Dcrnstorff:
"Tho Imperial Oerman Government, on
nccount of the friendly relntlons which
have always existed between tho two
great nations and earnestly desiring to
continue them, wishes to explain the U
boat question once more to tho Amoricnn
Government.
"At the outbreak of tho war tho Ger
man Government, nctlng upon the sugges
tion of tho United States, Immediately ex
pressed Its rendlness to ratify the Decla
ration of London. At that tlmo a German
prlzo codo had already been issued, which
was entirely and without modification
based upon tho rules of the Declaration of
London. Germany thereby proved her will
ingness to recognize fully tho cxlstlncruloa
of International law which Insuro tho free
dom of tho sea for the legitimate trade ot
neutral nations, not only nmong them
selves, but nlso with belligerent countries.
"prent Britain, on the other hand, de
clined to ratify tho Declaration of London,
nnd, nfter tho outbreak of the war, began
to restrict tho legitimate trade of the
neutrals In order to hit Germany. (
"Tho contraband provisions were sys
tematically extended nn August li, 20,
September 21 nnd October 29, 1914. On
November 3, 1914, tho order ot the British
Admiralty followed, declaring tho whole
North Sea a war zone. In which commer
cial shipping would bo exposed to most
serious danger from mines and men-of-war.
"Protests from neutrals wero of no
avail, and from that tlmo on tho freedom
of neutral commerce with Germany was
nrnctlcally destroyed. Under these cir
cumstances, Germany was compelled to
resort, In February, 191K. to leprisals in
Older to fight her opponents' measures,
which were absolutely contrnry to Inter
national law. Sho choso for this purpose
a new weapon, the uso of which had not
Continued on I'.ikp Tuo. Column One
dankTnddTngycloud
dumps snowy burden
;0n darkened world
Swirls of Flaky StuiT Blind Pes
tered Pedestrians and Lamps
All Over City Pierce
Through Gloom
DAY FOR DARK DEEDS
A dingy pall fell over tho city today
when a dirty-gray cloud swept down
from the north nnd eemed almost to
touch tho tops of tho buildings as it
dumped Its load of blinding snow.
Semlnlght reigned for 15 minutes, be
ginning at 10 o'clock. The largo ofllce
buildings gleamed out brightly through
tho twilight, with their myriad lights, and
uutoinobiles and other vehicles, wallowing
in tho snow-troughs of tho streets, lighted
their lamps. Swirls ot snow clouded what
vision remained In tho swarthy atmos.
pliere.
The phenomenon for such It was called
by 'the Weather Huieau was caused by
the density and the low ultltude of tho
clouds, which wero estimated to be only
1000 or 1500 feet abovo tho earth, This
is extremely low for a cloud, It was said.
When the sickly yellow, lowering sky
began to become dusky, out at tho Zoo
tho seals and walruses and the lonely
polar bear began to whimper and cough
with Joy. Soon they were reveling In
the snowy, sunless air. which reminded
them of their fatherland, tho somlne re
gion of the midnight sun.
Through the murk pedestrians stumbled,
avoiding collisions with other pedestrians
and vehicles. Hands went to pocket
books, too.
"It's a day for dark deeds." puffed one
man. bplutterlug out a mouthful of snow.
"Transit pledges could bo broken un
noticed." ventured another, ail ho stopped
In front of a lighted building to look at
his watch.
Because of the bad weather on this,
the third consecutive sunless day. the
time ball, which Is "dropped" on the
root of the Bourse on the stroke of 12,
was not raised at noon. Shippers mlsked
It, for they watch for the ball as they
do fdr their meals. Storm warnings wero
put out today along the Atlantic coast
from this city to Savannah in anticipation,
ot heavy northwest gales.
A lioaylcr drain than usual on the sup
ply of electricity and Illuminating gas
was noticed from all sections of the city.
An unusual amount of electricity con
sumed for daylight hours wan reported
by the Philadelphia Klectric Company
aikd 5e United tias Improvement t'om
ijany j-oorded more denuad for gits than
crdinarny.
QUICK
I,0NE BANDIT HOLDS UP BANK, GETS $2000
KT. VAVL, Minn., Mnrch 8. A masked bandit, riding up to the
tic or of the Security Stnto Dank on horseback this nfteinoon, rabbetl
that institution of ?2000 nfter looking llic cashier and paying teller
in the Vault. Tile baiullt escaped, on Jiis horse. The bank is on ft
firomlncu. business stieel ant! hundreds of people wcie passing- tht
doors at the time.
U. S.-GERMAN RELATIONS TENSER, LONDON BELIEVES
LONDON, Mnrch 8. Almost over nlRht Enplnnd'a viow of tho German
'Amerlcan situation lias undergone n radical change. Tho belief is jrrotvinff
here that relations between tho two countries nro growing moro tense, and tho
possibilities of war nro bolnp; moro seriously considered.
Itcports from Danish and Dutch sources In the last 24 hours declare tho
fccIInK of bitterness toward America in Germany is incrcaslnc;. Whother thla
Is due to the action of Congress In upholding tho President's firm stand Is not
known here.
The afternoon newspapers emphasized this view of tho situation today, in
head lines on Washington dispatches reporting President Wilson's triumph in
tho House yesterday.
"Wilson Defies Gorman Piracy," and "Decks Cleared for Action," were samplo
captions. In some quarters, however, tho licllef persists that Germany will yield.
A. J. COUNTY NAMED P. R. R. VICE PRESIDENT
A. .1. County, who has been special assistant to President Samuel Rea, of tho
Pennsylvania Railroad, was today mado vice president In chargo of accounting
by tho Board of Directors of the Pennsylvania Railroad nt its regular meeting.
Tho ofllco Is a now one, nnd tho appointment Is effectlvo immediately.
CARTER GETS $2400 POST IN SURVEY BUREAU
Frank II. Carter. 3710 Locust street, today was appointed nn assistant
engineer of tho Bureau of Surveys at a salary of $2-100 by Director Datcsman,
of the Department of Public Works. Tho now nppolntce fills tho vacancy caused
by tho promotion of W. L, Stevenson, who has been made an engineer.
COLONEL GOETHALS CALLS ON MAYOR SMITH
Colonel Georgo W. Goethals, Governor of tho Panama Canal Zone, in com
pany with Congressman Vnre, mado a brief call on Mayor Smith today. Recently
tho Mayor visited Colonel Goethals In New York, and the call today was In tho
nature of a return visit. Congressman Varo Is a member of the Congressional
Appropriations Committee, and ho has had frequent conferences with Colonel
Goethals concerning tho financial needs of tho canal.
ITALIAN KING ON HURRIED TRIP TO ROME
ROME, Jiarch 8. For tho second timo slnco tho outbreak of thn war. Kins
Victor Emanuel has returned from tho front for a conference with tho Ministry.
Ho conferred for sovcral hours with Cablnot officers today, plannInc,to return
to army headquarters within a few hours.
SWEDEN DEMANDS GERMANY PAY FOR SHIPS
COPENHAGEN, Jiarch 8. Sweden has protested to Germany against tho
sowing of a mlno field south of Fnlsterbo, within Swedish territorial waters, accord
ing to advices from Stockholm today. Sho demands compensation for the
destruction of the Swedish stenmshlp Knlppla and smaller vessels by German
mines.
P. R. R. LIFTS EMBARGO IN PART
The Pennsylvania Rnllroad today nnnounced that tho freight embargo had
been lifted In tho entire city, with a few exceptances. The exceptions aro:
Anthraclto coal for tho Washington tivenuo district; constwlse freight for the
Clyde Line, and for tho Merchant and Miners' Boston Line, and freight for public
storehouses for which there Is still un accumulation of cars enroute.
DR. J. WILLIAM WHITE SUFFERS RELAPSE
Dr. J. William White, who was thought to bo recovering from tho effects of
an operation several months ago, has suffered a relupse at his home, 1810 Rltten
houso Square. Doctor White was removed from tho University Hospital to his
homo to gieet Colonel Theodore Roosevelt upon tho latter's last visit to this city.
Smco thnt tlmo tho surgeon's condition improved steadily until Saturday when
Indications of a i elapse wero seen. It Is said his condition is not critical.
SIX SOUTHERN ROADS LOSE TEXAS RATE CASE
WASHINGTON, Mnrch S. The Interstate Commerce Commission decided
today that rates on through freight from all points in tho United States to
Loulslnnu and Teas violate the long and short haul law and denied tho appli
cation of six Southern railroads to maintain theso rates.
I
PORTUGAL SEIZES FOUR GERMAN LINERS
LORENZO MARQUES', Portuguese East Africa, March 8. Four Hamburg
American liners that havo been hero since the war began wero taken over by
the Portuguese Government today. Their ofllcers and crews, numbering 400, wore
interned. The ships ate tho Admlrnl, C335 tons; tho Essen, 5878 tons; the Hof,
4705 tons, nnd tho Kronprlnz, 5GS9 tons.
FIND EVIDENCE ZEPPELIN WAS DAMAGED
LONDON, Mnrch 8. Tho broken piece of a Zeppelin propeller was picked
up in tho County of Kent today. It Is believed that one of tho dirigibles that
bombarded Kent and other counties Sunday night was struck and damaged by a
.hell from an anti-aircraft gun. (Tho German Admiralty reporting on tha
Sunday Zeppelin raid on England assorted that all (he Zeppelins returned safely,
though heavily shelled,)
SNOWBALLED, HE WANTED TO SHOOT THE "KIDS"
A deslro to shoot some schoolboys who threw snowballs at him caused
Joseph Estoslco, 23, of 492G Slcrlon avenue, to bo' hold In $800 ball for court
today by Magistratu Stevenson, of tho 61st and Thompson streets police station.
Sergeant Abrams tripped him when he was chasing tho youngsters around ths
ble'. for tho third time yesterday and tdok tho weapon uwuy from him. Estoslco
was btandlng in front of his homo when a snowball struck him. Ho went
inside, camo out with a revolver and set out for revenge, Before he was satisfied
ho met tho police sorgeant, and that ended the chase.
MARKET STREET BUILDING DAMAGED BY FIRE
A $7000 lire destroyed the two upper floors of the flye-atory building at 311
Market street early today. Tho fire burned rapidly, lighting up adjoining streets
for several squares, but was put out tn half an hour. The destroyed doors were
occupied by L. Kugman, overall manufacturer. Other occupants of the building
aio S. Weiss & Sons, skirt makers, and Nathan N. Greenberg, ladles' garment
manufacturers.
GERMAN ATTACK ON BELFORT NEAR, SAYS MILAN
LONDON. March 8. A Milan dispatch to the London Dally Telegraph says:
'Suspicions ttiat when the Germans find further progress against Verdun hope
less they may attempt a new diversion against Belfort, is confirmed by news
Ii om tho Swiss Border. There numerous reeonnoltering flights of German aero
planes over the Belfort territory have been observed. These flights Invariably
precede an attack. French aviation squadrons frequently cut short the Qer
man Incursions compelling the Germans to retreat. The inhabitants of Belfort
vtltnaeeed a VirlUlng aerial flight over the elty whlelt ended in the discomfort ot
the tiermans. According to German reports the Germans fear a bis JrVettab
offensive against Alsace,"
NEWS
, w'3Ip
11
f
fc g7
