ALBUQUERQUE MORNING JOURNAL.
CITY
EDITION
CITY
EDITION
THIKTY-KKVENTII YEAK.
VOL. C.VUX. No. CH.
TWELVE PAGES TWO SECTIONS.
ALBUQUERQUE, NEW MEXICO.WEDNESDAY, MARCH 8, 1916," Fw"ELVEA"GES-TWOTIONSr
FIGHT FOR PRESIDENCY
RESOLVES ITSELF INTO A
CONFLICT OF INTERESTS
OF COWMEN'S CONVENTION
THE WEATHER
WEATHEK FORECAST.
Denver, March 7. New Mexico:
Wednesday and Thursday fmr; not
much change In temperature.
LOCAL WKATHKK KFaVOnr.
For twenty-four hours, ending at
o p. in. yesterday.
Maximum temperature, 61 degrees;
mlnlniiim, 32 degrees; range, 29 de
grees; temperature m 0 p. m., .12 de.
?roes; northwest wind; clear.
SHALL CONTROL BE VESTED IN
REPRESENTATIVES OF PACKERS
OR MEN WHO OWN THE COWS
CHURCH AND STATE
UNITE AT FUNERAL
tlRRITIQH flMQlAfR IPRfqinrMTlllfJC
U III I lull IIIIUIH Lll MILUIULIil IVIIIU
GERMAN CHARGES GREAT VICTORY
WITHOUT DENIAL OVER PACIFISTS
OF THEIR TRUTH III LOIR HOUSE
Dully by Currier or Mall, 60c
"Month. Single Copley fl
Special Resolution To Be Acted on Today
(Ansnclulrd Vre CnrmiMiiKlrtirr.)
Paris, red. Jli.Tho gov eminent
was officially represented at a rellg-.
uiiH ceremony on the ocenslon of the
funerai of the victims of the l:iHt Zep
pelin ruin for the flint time since the
separation of church and state. Mr.
Penys Cochin, minister of Mate, was
present and though no special an
nouncement of his attendance was
made, the subject waH debated in the
jeahinet, which fact save an official
character to his presence. The ice
if Adopted, one,, broken, there was no heHitation
Massacre of Teuton Suhina- McLeinoic Resolution Is Ta
line Ciew Piaefically Ad
mitted by English Statement
Forwarded to Berlin,
Med by Vote of 27G to 113
After Long and Noisy De
"bate by Congressmen.
JUSTIFICATION FOUND
IN METHODS OF ENEMY
nal Meivler at Home,
A few days ago any one of these in-
(tlV NOMINA JOURNAL RRRCIAL LIAatD IRf I
London, .March 7 (ti;3,i p. ni.) The
Iterlin in the middle of January, re-
Change Constitution So as to Make J. H. Nations, the -Z "l IeX IZZX
Present Incumbent and a Dyed-in-the-wool Cowman, aUvp to H.v.nKoKi... , m,. uue de
. .. , . , ,. - Provence to attend a religious service
Eligible for Re-election; James F. Pnmm, Leading Can- for mo Israelite fallen un the neid of
didate for Chief Office, Antagonized Because of His Con- ilrZZ TilSTS
nection With Big Packing Concern; Hot Three-cornered
, ,J Jr. . . ... , . J'onsicur i.naiid, and ( ,tidi- through the Anioii.au cmbax.sv at.
ace lor aecreiarysnip uivmes Auenuon wun rresi
dency in Interest.
Attack Upon Aiabic and Mur
der of Part of Those Aboard
Stranded' Submarine Are
Anion? Citations,
CONGRESS DECISIVELY
RELIES TO BERLIN
Chief Executive No Longer
Hampered by Stories in For
cifin Capitals That Country
Is Not Back of Him,
far UOMNINd M URNAL MCIAL 1-IARI0 WIRII
Washington, March 7. President
llsoti today complet. lv and derisive
ly won his long f i (. , 1 i to compel con-
imiH nt conditional declaration by
the h lliue rent fov eminent-). I do no
ill the lull conviction that ,.,Hh KOv
ernnieiit will consoler primarily the
humane purpose i,f savlnc the hvi
oi innocent peop(. rather than by
the insistence iiiim doiihtful legal
rights, which mm h. denied on ae
loiinl el new coLilitiMiin.'
'Doubtful right U what the state
department terms this on January 1.
When wince then did it bei utne an un
questionable legal l ie lit, concern!
which there can be no difference or
opinion on the pan of patriotic Am
ei leans'.' I.i your secretary oi tae
a patriotic Ameiican or not"
glllllM 'I II III I lll II. ,
"1 propose to vole against tahlinr,
the M l.emole l'eoliit loll llednise,
if it is not tabled, there then will be
opportunity lo amend It, cprcsni;;
the convictions of the house, givtn,,
the house an opportunity to vole for
a simple resolution of warning and
thereby give notice to ymr president
land to my president that in the opin-
lion of 111.. hoiiM Ooil fli'iit lu not
clear, Im not no iiniiuestloned as to
Justify thin country In roIiik to war
for a violation of that sort of a
I'iCllt."
SouiJi With President.
Ueiuesentatlve llellln, democrat,
of Alabama, dramatically called the
role of the Houthern htatew to iwk
them where they stood. Ills ntiswcr
ciiliin bat k from the sontherti dele
;aton that the voutli wa.-i with thn
pleHident, The Iwuie, Mr. Ileflln Kald,
Was whether concivss would stand
with "IjiuiHiiitf mill the president or
on IJcrtistorff and the kaiser."
Hepresentath e liacker, democrat of
.MUsollli, replied: "III (lelinany th
GERMAN DRIVE
DEFLECTED FROM
DOUAUMONT TO
OTHER LOCATION
Fin ions Attack on the Meuso
Bends Back French Lino
and Takes Town of Forges,
Paris Reports,
MASSES OF INFANTRY
MOVE AGAINST HEIGHTS
Joffre's Forces Claim to Bo
Fully Prepared to Repel As
. saults Intended to Outflank
Verdun Fortresses,
Indents would have been sufficient. to;fl. nn ,,Vest gallon
jeetinK the Urltlsli novernmont's offer (fess to acknowledge that It stands: insue was, will we stand by the kaiser?
The outstanding feature of the first
day of the Panhandle and Southwest
ern stockmen's convention was tho
tact that a most earnest and vlRorous
KtriipKlfi for the, control of the asso
ciation 1h in proKress between the
tepresenta lives of the bijr packing
houses and tho owners of tho big
ranches. It la tho world-old KtruK
lile between tho man who buys and
the man who sells, and the successful
cnndldate for the presidency of .the,
association will be either a packer's
man or u cow man.
On the day before tho convention
opened It looked as if James K,
Prlmm, of El Paso, had the btp ma
jority of the votes in his corral; that
tho brethren were all roped and
branded und that thero would be
nothing to it but for the line riders
to count the critters as tho vote was
taken. Under tho constitution,
President J. H. Kntions was not eligi
ble for re-election, and there was no
really ' formidabfe candidate In Btsht
to oppose Mr. Prlmm.
To Cliantte 'ontUut.loit.
Uut what's the constitution between
friends? As soon as it became ap
parent that Prl.nni had the heft of
the situation, the executive commit
tee, which met Monday nlKht, formu-J
luted a resolution providing an !
amendment to the constitution mak
ing the president e.liKiblo for re-elec-;
lion. This resolution, which willj
come up for consideration nt. the J
Col. Charles W. Munt and K. W.
,havo caused tho downfall of the kov
ernnient. Today they occasion little
Flato surprise and only limited comment.
of the HiirnloiiH" behind him in the submarine nefto.
case by a court composed of Ameri- ttallons with (iennniiy.
can nuvni ouicith ana nnnoiincuiK f,, j,
tjermnnys intention to adopt meas-
tallyltii; cries of ".Stand by
both expressed confidence of election. They have given rise to the nuestlon as 'ur0H of reprisal, was Issued loniBht. 1 ' Lunslni; and
Kriends of V. L, Amonett were active to whether Monsieur firiand's famous it . (runumicainn i A,.iii.in. Wilson or von Ilernstorff and the
in his behalf nil day yesterday, how- doctrine of pacification between
ever, nnd there Is every prospect of a clericals and antl-clerlcals will
merry war before the matter is fin- prevail after the war.
ally settled.
lh? dor Oerard nt P.erhu thrniiKh Walter kaiser?" a bivr democratic majority
notjHines pane, the American ambassador and nearly half the republicans in tin
in London
Albuquerque delegates to the con.iMQNEY PANIC THOUGHT
veniion yesterday maae no secret oi
their partiality for Irimm for the
presidency. They were not particular-1
1.. l.VAA... 1M , 1 . . ..I U...H Ut
1 lllirirnicu 111 WIl- MOilliei UI'OIITII tlv MORNINQ JOURNAL CPKCIAL LKABKO WIRK1
the stock raiser and the packer, but Mexico City, March 7. Alter
in kiikiiiiui the issue was, will We
Island by the klnu'.' In liussla thn is
'me was, will wo stand by the czar,
1 1 he little vicar of God! If war comes
I we will all stand by the president of
the mited States. Hut this, thank
'find, is a representative noverument
and I wish to say to the inximintWg
house rolled ut overwhelming votes Kcntleinait from Alatinitin the question
The Paralong. a KriUsh patrol boat, , ni0VPlm.nl lo w.;1,. Alll,.r.i w is, will you stand hy the Amer
la.t fall sank n (.erm.m submarine Mean people?
rMHirn IM MrV'IfTi PITV "'1'8tttlonH were made that men " j Answer to Iterlin lU'isirls.
LINULU UN IVIlAIUU Oil T ,from the Ilaraloni? afterwards killed nelllficrents. president and his advisers re
members of the Herman submarine I tie celebrated Mi'Lemore rt solution, uai'd the atclon of the hose today as
crew while they were in the water or arm d which tho anli-adminlstratlon l a sufficient answer to reports clrcll
on board the American steamer Nlco- , ..............i ,i,..i ti - i.o.j 1 lated In Ilerlln. Heiu from WiiHhinv-
they had a feeling recollection of the' panic today among business institu- sian, which had picked them up. . . . ... . ' ' . ton, that congress stood two to one
fact that last year In El Paso, when tions, due to the Carranta paper peso
Albuquerque was knocking at the door, faiunjr to a new low value of 2 3-4c
t'.mlH All Discussion. . '.iiKalnsl him in tho crisis
The P.rltish government: disclaims lne ,ori' resoimmn ror a similar pur- () nf ,h,. miniri.Ses was tho
and wanted the convention to come to Kold, tho prospects tonight aro much any intention to further discuss Rb l'o the senate lust week. falluru of the so-called llryan influ-
thls city Mr. Prlmm peeled off hlB brighter, owing to the prevailing cneral charges of tho inhumanity of Victory Im Quick One. ! eiice to develop any appreciable
cout, rolled up his sleeves, spat in his opinion that the finance department ;Oermany's sea warfare, w hich it holds Krom the very outset of the fight i -,,,h against the president,
hands and went to work for Ainu-; has found a solution which will brinir have been amply proved. Comment-',, ,i, r..ui.i,., u L.,,,.,,.,1.,..., ,i.i, i "tartd by the president and do not
querque. As one of the local dele- Mexican paper monev to a point three in on Ciermany's statement that her , ' '., .... embarrass him In bis diplomatic nego
TO
meeting this morning, is palpably de-1 language,
gates put it yesterday, "We're for our times higher than its present value.
menus mat s me oniy pontics we
know," I
Governor to Hpcak. j
- Governor W- C. McIonb! came
down from Santa Fe yesterday. Hef
hadn't gotten ten steps from his train j
before he was shaking hands with all
the old-timers and was the center of a
biff gathering' of admiring: friends.
The governor is down for a speech
at tho session of the convention this
morning, and his address is sure to be
one of the big features of tho conven
tion. Governor McDonald Is never so
much at homo as when talking lo
pnii'mon Ha 1m one nl their hrei.fi.
knows their problems and talks their! UCatll
RO TRAGEOY
IN EL PASO JAIL
officers had been acquitted of alt
blame after at thorough examination
in the three cases which Great ISri
tuln asked Germany to refer with the
H;iraoiig rase f-' y
'lneiicaii niivil
opposition.
On tho first vote, which was a par-!
llainentary proposition to prevent!
opening- the McU'iiiore resolution to I
.iiiondment nnd unlimited debute, the
i.. ,..! ..t """
7 . , ? " . J iidmlulstration forces carried the dav,'
liner Arabic, the destruction of a .,r, , i rw. n,,., hoi .u t
stranded British submarine by a Her- c, -,.'' ',, ..wuuJl
' f
voted to support the administration.
man destroyer, and the German sub
marine attack on the llrltlsh steam-
ullltl llnnl It... iijO.. s,,.- Il. r.
version or tne sinning or the Aramc
five progronslves and one lnde-i
Uftidi.nt li'iirnuoiilLi I ii',. liitiilmi tlitii
not only is inherently untrustworthy, ,on(( H,)ciulist of . n0use, ;,,,,.!
but directly contradictory to all evl-
a gainst it.
List,
signed to put President Nations In the
race to succeed himself, and the
first big fight of the convention is
wire to take place when the measure
Is placed before the convention for
passage or rejection.
The Nations men point to the fact
at Eighteen; Others Momen
tarily Expected to Die,
The Albuquerquo cowboys' band will'
'again furnish the music both for thei
convention and for the impromptu
I meetings to be, held wherever a few Of
tho. faithful get together on the
streets. The local musicians have
(made a tremendous hit during the
I A 1 Jt .A..l.!U..lnJ
that their ejvndlriate Is a "red-blooded convention, ana nave cuiui muiru
cow man" and that he represents I greatly to the enjoyment of the occa-Uy grand Jury will begin tomorrow an
more truly than his opponent the real j"' bV tno visitors. An address by C. I investigation of tho explosion yester-
lnterests of the men who own and
raise the cows. On the other hand
tho Prlmm men point to tho fact that
A.;,. t. T .!.(.. I. ,
"m "" possess- This was the crucial vote of the
irorn (l ,,ga numi.er oi iiu.epcnu- fi(.llt v()hl hIt., u,nllnls.j
rrrtm rvnUCrtnfin irAr r y! T tratlon leaders were uncertain. With!
K rnrYl I- Vn nC An "l hot i u Ho nnnntj.i' ai f ..lum
I i iuiii uaiuoiuii '' victory In hand, they moved on to the! . . ,, ..
of nislnffifitinjr Rath. Stds!: ,r: ,rn'anB"VH,,n,,,,im,l'h' vmiuon, t.,e a,.oPu of a.unncsc Legation Hears
.... .tnimn Attllmle. of (he McLcmore resolution. " !
Has the captain of the submarine;
been tried for murder? Has ho even! . . It IWliC I
been accused of any deed which in . A "'" "o y carried the day th.s,
German eyes is not meritorious? If, 1,1m" 271 ,0 1IS' an'1 ,l,,' P,w,'"' ,,";,r(
as his majesty's government believes, Y,L'tor' lo 11 oncluhlon by tabling the
t tho Arabic without warning, ''""r" n'soiuuon to n.
tV HOMNINK JOURSAb IHItlAL LftAflBO WIRII
El Paso, Tex., Marci) 7. The coun
tho packer has been the making of
the cattlo industry in the southwest,
that Just as the railroad has develop
ed tho country through which it has
passed bo the packer has developed
tho cattle industry, has helped the
cattle man, has furnished him with
a ready market for his wares and has
in every way heen his best friend.
There is no room, they claim, for any
real quarrel between the stockman
and the packer.
Albuquerquo Position.
Just how the struggle will come out
U is Impossible at this time to predict.
Sentiment has not crystallized to a
sufficient extent to warrant a. forecast
of the result. The vote on tho resolu
tion to amend tho constitution will fur
nish the first test of strength as be
tween tho Prlmm and tho Nations fac
tions. If the resolution is defeated it
Is a safe bet that Primm will be the
next president. If It is adopted there
Ih sure to be a, hot fight on the floor
of the convention for the presidency.
The three-cornered race for secre
tary yesterday offered little change.
The Day in Congress
ho sank
do tho German government go so fur
B. Jlecdor, ot Atnanuo, ana snort; ,in.. n thft Pit., ji which iniured
talks by members of the association j morp tnall forty pr(s0n(;rg wno Werejln,y do- w'nv should they hesitate to
In seven hours of tense, turbulent i
as to agree with the rest of the world 8'HHl0n 1,1 which Jtho nmlnlsl ration P-
n !... Ih-t H.IIAI, n ol,o- It I'OlieillS I ,ri OlUl IOC
(v murni jturhai icial uun wiai)
Paris, March 7. Foiled in their at
tempt to carry Dnitaumont plateau,
the Germans are now turning their
attention to other parts of the line
and tire driving at French positions
west of the Meuse while their artil
lery keeps tho Flench busy elsewhero
and their infantry has been making
attacks in tho Woevre district In the
vicinity of Fresnes.
As tho first result of their drivo
to the west of the Meus0 the Germans
took the town of Forges and lnce
have advanced further to the south
and southeast. The rapture of Forges
which was only an advance post and
not strongly held, was apparently tho
first step In a serfous effort to storm
tho long crest extending from th
Meuse to Forges brook.
Annoyed (jcriiuin Hanks.
The fire from the highest points
along thin crest, the Mori Homme and
Ols, hills, took the Germans in the
rear when they were attacking Dou
Biimont by way of Vacherauvllle, and
was partly responsible for their fail
ure of Holiday, while the violent and
persistent bombardment of the Ger
man artillery had Httle effect upon
the fire of the French batteries a!onir
the crest. It.woitM b natural then
for te Germans, aecordlnf to their
known in';' bods, to turn the alterna
tive tf trying in storm, the .Unii
with lifisses of Jnfantrj'.
I Vouch Fully Props
Tho desire of the Germans to re
duce the awkward salient formed by
the Meuse north of Verdun was antic
llpated by the French . who are fuhy
prepared for Its defense with every
confidence that the German attempt
would only r-sult In heavy losses for
Ih,. iitlneklmr
j The war office announcement fol-
lows:
' "In the Argonne district endeavors
on (he part nf tit,, enemy ai Haute-
Great Victories by Forces 0f i J'h'-v"-,,v!.,'v.,, :,,',v.,l,'y " oraU,r
"Our artillery has continued Its
bombardment of the lines of com
munication of the enemy west of the
river Meuse.
"Favored by an Intense bombard
ment Gorman troops have been able
7. Capture ofjto advance along the railroad lino In
president two rebel strongholds, To Yal and Sul t"e neighborhood of Regnevlllo. At
how, hy Chinese government troops Ah Ra""' nwmt the Germans dellv-
tiatlons with foreign countries," was
(Cnllllllilrd Ml l'c rive)
GOVERNMENT
IS
CRUSHING REBELS
PEKIIi ASSERTS
of
Yuan Shi Kai Over Enemies
in Yunnan,
IRV monin JOURNAL special lrario WIRII
Washington, March
will complete a most enjoyable pro
gram for the morning session.
RELIGIOUS QUARREL-
CAUSE OF TRAGEDY teen.
bolng given baths
gasoline, kerosene and
them of disease-carrying germs and
vermin.
The death list stood today nt elgh
with two or three more of tho
victims expected momentarily to die.
or HoRNiNa journal .c,.L L....0 wiR.i NlnetrMi injured were, still In the hos
Chlcago, March 7, Marriage pittils tonight,
through newspaper advertisements .Man Who Struck Match IVad,
brought an aftermath of tragedy when I The coroner began an inquest to
P G. C.inelis shot his wife to death. I luv Ing ns evidence statements of
persons present
-V. !..,! ll,l ... Mc.luirr.rrin '
llieil V O I It IIOIA.7II nUHIUlp .It n. n v . . ,. , ,l,rt ,,nl
news reached' " uniouns, wno ui-wni en uii
jthe explosion followed the striking of
The
Tex., yesterday
hero today.
I,udvicka Ginelis, 16 years old, was
married some months ago to Count Se
bastian Caroll Uraganza de la Coralla,
74 years old, after her father, P. G.
Oinetis, had inserted in the papers a
picture of tho daughter, together with
the statement that she wished to mar
ry a. "good, wealthy husband of high
education."
Eventually Count Coralla de la came
to Chicago, saw the girl, and Uidvieka
became a countess.
Mr. nnd Mrs. Ginetis went to ;ive
u match by II. M. Cross, a prisoner,
in defiance of instructions issued
when the bathing was started. Cross
was among those who died of burns
last night. Tile evidence was taken
hy a representative of tho coroner's
jury, who will present it to that body
tomorrow.
Health Ofl'Uvrs Criticized.
Some criticism was directed today
against the city health authorities,
who directed the bathing of tho pris
oners, both for placing the bathing
w.ih contending for a doubtful legal
case of the Arable?" r, NH' ' "' "UUN" ""lv,'i lucu unu mi hi ported lo the Chinese legation
Tho note says tho Itritish govern- 1,1 ,,hr "",Hl M,'"Hat''"'ll aprcch spec ; tuiiy ln official dispatches from J'e-
ment finds It difficult to believe the "' " l'ooiy uneipiai.e,. King
rrm!" right and w-a shifting the respon,,bl.- wlthln th I(lRt foup (lliyH wlth hPftVy , V"1 '
nd vlnar to rid If fl "'"' iMvestlgato the ltv of .lip lumatlo negotiations to con-, rMnR tn lh(, wM r. j j- An entlrC Islon took pa t
na ine,ar to ria , . .,.,; " ress. t he house swavei hue li am forth .... ,.i.i i.. i I'n tins muneuver. rney were suc-
i..m.. I o' ni".'.. , . , hcid auv;-
ssiiu in utiwiig possession or tills
since the eve of the declaration of war
German version of the attack on thn
submarine stranded on the Danish m Sn"'"-
i resiiieni wiison,. oaim mid conn
dent, heard the curly results of
voting in the cabinet room at
const was based on tho report of any,
responsible German officer.
Statement Contradicted.;
The legation made
merit:
"The troops under General l.ung
tho'cheng-Kuang, garrison commander of
the 1 Kwangsi, have retaken Po Yal, the
SENATK.
Debated water power bill.
Senator Sutherland, republican, in
a speech defended President Wilson's
course In the negotiations with Ger
many.
Confirmation of Newton V. Baker as
secretary of war.
Sub-committees continued investiga
tion of Louis D. itrandeis' nomination
to supreme court bench.
Hecessed nt 0:50 p. m. to 1 1 a. m.,
Wednesday.
HOISK.
Met at 11 a, m.
ttpgan consideration of special rule
providing. for vote after four hours of
debate on a motion to table the Mc
Lcmore resolution warning Americans
off armed ships.
Voted, Hi to ICO, to end debate on
the rule.
Adopted the rule, 271 to 13S.
After debate, tabled McLemore res
nltlon, 27 to 143.
Adjourned at 8:33 p. m. to noon,
Wednesday,
with the son-in-law on his estate at! solution f volatile liquid in a closed
MaisL-orda Tex. It was there that cell house, ann tor uicir taiiure to
vesterdav Ginetis. following a quarrel' search all prisoners and relieve them
over religion, shot his wife through the! of matches before the bathing began.
i heart, then sent a bullet Into his own! Street car traffic between Kl Paso
head. He Is also said to have at-land Jiiaren, wnicn was suspenaea uist
tempted to shoot the count but the 'night, was resumed today, with arm
cartridge failed to explode. led Carranza. soldiers guarding each
The count is said to be a Spanish j car while on tho Mexican side,
grandee with wide property interests wild Humors in Juarez,
in .Spain. , The suspension followed the shoot-
I ing of Charles Fhelps, motorman of
Ql IRHRni WATFQ DNI Y U street car, who wns attacked by an
bUDUnUmrtlLO UINLI I unidentified Mexiran after reports
OBLYtU bUI tnlUndjWere spread in Juarez that 200 Mex
icans had been tnrown into jail nere
and deliberately burned to death. (
It was learned today that this re
port was given currency by two of
the victims of the explosfon, who
dashed, naked, through the nheets
of flame sweeping the east section of
tho prison, and, eluding pursitl
forded the Rio Grande, and made
HORNINS jbORNAL PCIAL ItAICO WIRR1
San Antonio. Tex., March 7. The
release of Second Lieutenants Peyton
and Waldron has been ordered by Ma
jor General Frederick Funston and
the military charges against them for
crossing the Itio Grande to rescue
United States soldiers wno nan oeen
White House with some of Ihe cnhhiet most tin onriii n, si i-hI.mo,. nolm ..n ilie
"In any case," the note continues, grouped about him. lie told them ho! border of Yunnan, l'o Yal fell after
It Is wholly untrue. There was no en- i.oici, gratified with the simnort ' General I-um-'s troims tool enntured
gagement. The Krltlsh submarine had nf congress. i Yuei list forts, and l,v rllmhimr un a
been four hours on shore before the, Pi-er.are.1 Now.' o. Act. (JniiKcrous nreclnice from behind the
Merman destroyers uuacKeo ner. net
-rew, m enu.Mvonng to save tm in- r,lKKln(., forced upon him by the dis
solves, were shot at in the water by SPrlHi,)11H in congress which have been
machine guns and shrapnel. This in- renrcseiilcd in foreign caudals as in-
cldent took place In Ihe presence of dicallng that he was making his de
Danish destroyers. .It can be proved IlUlllH ,, ,;crmauv In direct opposl
hy superabundant testimony. both ,ion , ,h(, s(.iuiinerit of thn elected
Uritlsh and neutral. At what Value renresenlalives of the neoide. I're.d-
after this are we to rate 'a thorough d(.nt Wilson now stands prepared to go
investigation' aH thoroughness Is prac n wiU) ,,. submarine negotiations
ticed by the German authorities?"
hill in spite of tho heavy losses In-
fill'!..,! llOrtl. VtU V. a tn rt j. i , m
this announce- , Hr' 11(.ry ind nu machine gun:
'We are ln possession of the village
of Ilethincourt and the groves east
of the wood Des Corbeaux and the
wood de Cumieres, und the heights
of Cote do L'Ole.
Artillery fighting continued actively
last night to the eust of the Meuse
In the vicinity of llras and Hardau
mont, as well as in the Woevroi in
the sector of Fresnes and In tho Vil
lages located in the foothills."
HEAVY REPUBLICAN
VOTE IN INDIANA
.nun,, nrisoners bv Mexicans have; their way into juare. Tnere tney
been dronped. First Lieutenant 1 told fellow countrymen that they had
. . ... l, . i a .it, rM,-ftiu nn n. , AH
Mort senior officer or tne expeui- oeeu miaieu won ii""uur iou mi un
win . tried before a court mar. iflrn.
inl to he convened at Mercedes.
General Funston decided that, be
causo Lieutenants Peyton and Wal
dron were subordinate officers, they
should not be tried for the offense.
Disorders in the Mexican town
were checked by heavy patrols sent
out at once by the Carranza military
authorities. Phelps, though still in
critical condition, was reported to
night to be slightly improved.
FOOD PRICES MUCH
HIGHER IN EUROPE n
such further assurances as It I'onslil-
tr morninu journal rrrcial liiio wirii crs sufficiently broad and complete, to
Washington, March 7. Enormous guarantee that the new submarine
increases in food prices in Kuropean campaign which began on March t
cupltals, particularly those of the and in which notice has been given
Teutonic allies, are shown in a com- that all ships earning guns will bet
parative statement completed today sunk without warning, will not endan
by the department of labor's bureau ger Americans traveling the seas on
of labor statistics. All food is cheap-, merchant vessels,
er In the allied countries than in Oer-j Leiiroot'H Contention,
many and Austria, but there have, Representative Lenroot of Wlscon
been sharp rises, in prices also In ; sin, republican, of the rules oommlt
Kngland and France, j tee, quoted liberally from the mi mor-
Vlenna lias suffered most of all. andum, asking, In the light of the
Meat that sold a year ago at 20c a contention of administration inlher-
pound Is selling now for 47 cents, Tn , cuts that to warn Americans off shi
Berlin beef rose from 22c to :15c. I would be unpatriotic, if the secretary
Prices in Great Hrltaln are given j had been patriotic.
as 44 per cent more than a year ago. "Gentlemen have said throughout
The rise in France has been about 2.1 j this debate that this proposition of
Released from the bonds of ernbar- j mountain, taken the rebels by sur
prise. In the fight that ensued, sev
eral thousand rebels were killed.
With the lull of Co Yiii, General
Lung's force will he able to advance
rapidly toward tin' capital of Yunnan.
"Will Chow, another Important place
In the southwest of Szzechuun, has
likewise fallen Into the hands of the "ormikr journal rmcial lrarrs wiri,
government troops under Commander! Indianapolis, Ind March 7. He
. ..... i . i .. Tiirtm rrnm ti-u. iift ui ; r. u-i.-f t
with the central pnwcrH irrn hiht i.uwiik wi'ii nccupirn ny
The next step probably will be an1"'" '".els " few .lays. - March 2, jrenthjl .rl.n,ry ' in Indiana were slow
answer to Germany's lust proposal to,"'" R"-rninent troops occupied both ; I ng In, but those received up to
settle the I.usitanla cine, ln which the MH " "lf "w-r- P'"eni - . ..,..-
nlteil states probably will ask for
per cent'. In Italy prices have gon . Americans travelling on armed mer
upward very slowly for the last twelve thant ships is an unquestioned rifcht
months. Meats alone showed an ap-j under international law," he said,
preclable Increase. "With reference to that I want to
Prlees in The Netherlands, the only , call attention of the house to the fact
neutral European country shown, that on January IS. a little over six I
fierce struggle. The next morning off in the democratic and progressive
tin y took the entire prefecture of Hill, Vote.
having occupied all t he strategic! I'nofflclal returns from twenty-slx
points along the mountains. More out of tho 11.177 precincts In the state
than a thousand rebels were killed; gave the following for tho republican
several hundred made prisoners; and candidates:
a large quantity of arms .'uld aniinn-l For I'nlted States Senator Harry 8.
nit Ion captured. I New, S47; James K. Wutson, 1,038.
"The government troops in Hunan' For Governor Jalnc H. Goodrich,
have had a similar success In the sup-jSI; Warren T. McCruy. 742.
prcsaion of the disturbance. On March, Thirty-two scattering precincts gave
a tiny attacked two thousand rebels in the democratic race for governor
in Mavang, Hunan. The skirmish be- John A. M. Adair, 1.23": Leonard B.
gni at y o'clock In the morning and Clore, S44.
lasted nine hours. The rebels were, cited states Henator John W.
defeated and hotly pursued. More than Kern was unoi. nosed for renomttiut',...
on the democratic ticket as were also
President Wilson and former Vice
President Charles W. Fairbanks, can
didates for the nomination for presi
dent on the democratic anil republican
tickets, respectively.
tun of their number were killed.
BAKER'S NOMINATION
CONFIRMED BY SENATE
tV MORNIKQ JOURNAL RPKCIAL IKAItO WlRt
Witsblnnton, March 7. Mr. Baker' i
nomination was confirmed late today
by the selinte.
have risen steadily within the year, ; weeks ago, the present secretary of! linker's appointment was expressid1
but not so rapidly as ln the belllger-' stale, In a note written to the allied
ent countries. powers, used this language with ref-
Food on the whole costs three per'erence to what now Is said to be an
Progress on Power Hill.
Washington, March 7. The senate
made progress today towards dispos-
I'nanlnious commendation of Mr.'al of Ihe waterpower bill which has
cent more in 'ha United States now
than a year ago, the bureau est I
mute!,
unquestioned right. He said:
Quotes Lansing's Words.
" 'In proposing this formula as a
by cabinet m nibei's at today's cabi
net meeting. General Hugh L Scott,
secretary of war ad Interim, told the
president that the select'on had been
favorably received among army officers.
been under discussion for nearly a
month and Senator Shields, in moving
u recess until il o'clock In-'teTd of
noon tomorrow, unnounced that V
would undertake to keep the senato
In continuous session until the meas
ure had been disposed of.
