THIS PAPER issued in
Two Section# Section
one—Pages 1 to 6—Lo
cal news, stories, corre
spondence and Denison
locals.
VOL. 51
CITIZENS CAUCUS
FRIDAY EVENING
Call Has Been Issued for Meeting to
Nominate Candidates 'for City
Offices of Denison.
RE-NOMINATE OLD OFFICERS?
Movement Been Made Under Cover
for Some Time—Soir« Council
men Hostile Towards Laub
A citizen's caucus has been called
l'or Friday evening to nominate can
didates for city offices. This move
ment originates with democrats and
is supported by certain republicans
who are not able to show many scars
as a result of fighting for their party
No one for a moment would expect
the democrats to favor a citizen's cau
cus if they were in the majority in the
city. We wonder if being in the ma
jority in the county, the democrats
will propose a citizen's movement to
secure county offices this fay.
The citizens' movement has been
working under cover for- some time
and from present indications will have
the "right of way" this year. It is
suggested that tl^e present municipal
machine is behind the movement on
the theory that a better show for per
petuating the present officials will be
secured. The indications are that the
plan is to renominate all the members
of the council, although certain mem
bers of the council are hostile to the
renomination of Mayor Laub.
We are of the opinion that if a por
tion of the old ticket is to be endorsed
it should apply to all the offices. Wc
further believe that if the present
members are to be renominated, that
some assurances should be given now
or at least before the election, that
electric light rates will be reduced, in
asmuch as the taxpayers are paying 15
mills on the taxable property of the
city for sustaining the plant in addi
,tion to the rate charged by the old
•company. We think it desirable, also,
that a full statement be made showing
the ctiy's financial condition and the
amount of indebtedness for which it
is liable.
We have always believed that the
majority party in a city of the size
of Denison has enough good material
in it to furnish the officials and that
.better results will come from such a
method, but people- have' a right to
differ on these questions. The chances
are if no other' Caucus is held that a
full attendance will be out at the citi
zen's caucus.
The Review cartoons drawn by Bart
fre making a hit with the readers of
this paper.
SUPERINTENDENT TESTS CORN.
One Hundred Ears of Splendid Look
ing Corn Fails to Test Out Ac
cording to Mr. Olry.
County Supt. F. N. Olry is taking
great interest in the matter of good
seed corn for the spring planting and
has found time to test a quantity of
corn for farmers in this locality.
One hundred ears of exceptionally
good looking corn was tested last week
by the superintendent and while
the com from all appearances was far
above the average it did not show up
well in the test. Three different lot
were tested 22 ears of 1914 corn 50
ears of 1914 corn from another field
and 27 ears of 1915 corn. The 1915
corn was picked before the fros't and
hung up in an attic' to dry. The test
showed that 7 ears out of the 22 e?.rs
of 1914 corn showed strong germina
tion, 2 ears weak and the remaindev
failed to sprout at all. The 50 ears of
the 1914 crop showed 8 strong eajs
with 12 fairly good ears and 30 ea-s
which failed to grow at all. The
eais of last year's corn made the best
showing of all samples. 25 ears show
ing strong germination with the other
2 ears weak.
Farmers who expect to secure a
good stand of corn this season should
by all means test their seed corn be
fore planting, for if the corn tested
by Piofessor Olry is a representative
showing of the entire county it is evi
dent that the 1914 seed corn is way
below standard. Many farmers rio not
depend on their own supply of seed
corn, but purchase seed from a seed
house which has ueen carefully grad
ed and tested.
BUTLER-COLLIER
Miss Stella Butler, of Aripn, Becomes
the Bride of Mr. Nelson Collier,
of Fairbury, Neb.
Arion, Iowa, Mar. 7.— (Special to the
Review.)—Miss Stella Butler, of Arion,
and Mr. Nelson Collier, of Fairl^ury.
Neb., were married in Omaha Wednes
day afternoon by Rev. W. MacDougall.
A small party of relatives accompan
ied them. Miss Butler and Mr. Collier
became acquainted at the University
of Nebraska, where she was study
ing music and languages, and Mr. Col
lier was taking a civil engineering
course. Since graduating Miss Butler
has taught music in the schools of
Dow City and Charter Oak, and Mr.
Collier has been engaged in government
work in Porto Rico and Trinidad. The
war stopped all work in those islands
and Mr. Collier returned to the Unit
ed States. After the ceremony, Mr.
and Mrs. Collier took the train for
Hastings. Neb., where Mr. Collier is
employed and where they will make
their home.
Announcing Future Selling of Wirthmor Waists
W
waists, proper
ly so named,
will in the fu
ture be on sale
in our store.
These waists
sell at 11. They
will always be
or
than the price
you pay. A
new plan of co
operation be
tween manu
a re a
retailor makes
os
sale of waists
at this price that would ordinarily sell at $1.50*to $2. Sincerely do we
The first allotment goes on sale Thursday. 2nd
ft
believe that these are the very beat waist value* that have ever been offered, and that un
der an agreement recently made with'the producer, we will always be in a position to offer
in the future at $1 waists that are vastlyjsuperior to'what youfcan obtain at this priee else,
where, Wirthmor waists will be sold here and here only. They will always sell at $1.00.
floor,JLadiea'
CITY COUNCIL
HOLDS SESSION
Recular Monthly Meeting Held Mori
day Evening in Council Cham
ber at City Hall.
PROPOSITION FOR CEMENT TEST
Estimated That Sixty Car Loads of Ce
ment Will Be Used in Concrete
for Paving Streets.,
The city fathers held their regular
monthly business session at the city
hall on Monday evening of this week,
at which time the regular run of
monthly bills was allowed and the
city clerk ordered to draw warrants
for the same.
A representative of the Monarch
testing laboratories, located at Des
Moines, was present and presented a
proposition for testing the cement to
be used for the paving of the streets
of Denison at the mil) so that when it
reaches here it will be ready for use
without delay. It .is -estimated that
sixty car loads of cement will be used
in paving this year and the Monarch
people made a proposition for testing
this cement .for a fee of $6.00 per car
or $360.00. The council decided to ac
cept the proposition made and a con
tract was drawn up and properly
signed. The city dads will have to em
ploy inspectors to see that the proper
amount of cement and pand is used at
the mixers and we understand that
srveral applications from local people
have been made for this work. No
action was taken, however, in regard
to this at the Monday evening meet
ing.
A portion of North Howard street
abutting on the property of Henry
Godberson, John R. Meyer and Peter
"Soehl was vacated, the three property
owners mentioned paying the city the
sum of $200 for the ground vacated.
There is said to be an interesting
contest developing over the selection
of paving inspector for the city. Tjvo
candidates, so far are in the field for
the position, James Armstrong and A
J^Gary, and the people are inclined
to take a hand in the settlement cf
the matter and evidences already ap
pear by the interest which the friends
of the candidates are taking in the
contest.
The responsibility for the selection
is on the council and we presume it
will be able to dispose or the matter
to the best advantage for the city and
all concerned. It is said the question
of salary to be paid the inspector is
one of the considerations that may
have, something to do wit}i the action
of the council.
Complete Showing
Smart Suits in Tailored and Semi-Tailored Models
In Choice Woolens or Selected Silks
The models we have on display in our ready-to-wear department are distinct
ive new models. They represent distinct types in the fancy tailored suits of cloth
and silk the modish braid and button trimmed suit the dressy tailleur costume
suit, and the new sport suit. .,
All are fashionable, and all give the much desired youthful silhouette.
You may choose now from a score of beautiful new Menagh models in all the
preferred fabrics and colors.
Not only are Menagh garments distinctive in style, but the way in which they
are tailored places them in a class by themselves.
We have now on exhibit a special showing of 25 new spring models. Their
beautiful graceful lines could not be bettered by a custom tailor. You are sure to
find a suit in this offering.
Priced for Thursday, Friday and Saturday of this week at $19.50.
A wopderful pollection of Wooltex suits priced, from $25 to $45.
Ready-to-Wear Dept.
•*.
DENISON REVIEW
THIS WEEK'S NEWS THIS WEEK, NOT NEXT WEEK.
THE DENISON REVIEW, WEDNESDAY, MAR. 8, 1916
LAMBORN DRUG CO. SELLS.
W. A. Lamborn Di*poses of His
Drug Business *0 Mr. G. H.
Grau, of Manning.
W. A. Lamborn. who has been en
gaged in the drug busiuess in this city
for the past eight or'ten years, has
sold out his business to Mr. G.
Grau, of Manning. The deal was con
summated the lirst of the week. We
understand that the stock will be in
voiced this week and when completed
Mr. Grau will.take charge of the store.
For the past few months Mr. Lam
born has been in poor health and be
ing unable to .secure competent /elp
it has been necessary for him to f.irork
in the store from twelve to fourteen
hcurs each day. He expects to spend
the summer months* in Canada, where
his brother owns considerable land.
Mr. Lamborn does not intend to re­|
move from Denison, a fact which his
many friends will be glad to learn.
Mr. Grau, whose home is at
and came to America
1892, locating at Saginaw, Mich., and
was united in marriage to Mr. Freder
ick Hofert in the same year. To this
union seven children were born, onf
of whom died in infancy. Site leaves
to mourn her death two daughters
Mrs. Herman Rienwaldt, and Mrs. Her
bert Fuller, and four sons, Henry,
Emil, George and Fritz, all of whom
are residents of this city. Four broth
ers and sisters are also left, namely:
Charlie Anders, Herman Anders, Mrs.
Enoch Olsen and Otto Anders, all of
this city, and her father, Mr. Fritz
Anders, who is now in his eighteith
year.
The deceased was a kind and lov
ing mother and her death has cast a
profound gloom in the homes of Tier
children. During her illness she re
ceived every care and attention pos
sible and it was a source of much en
joyment to her during her declining
days to have her children at her bed
side.
A
Funeral services were- held .Monday
afternoon at 2:30 o'clock at the home
of her daughter, Mrs. Herbert Fuller.
Rev. E. P. Williams, pastor of the Bap
tist church, having charge of the serv
ices, after which interment was mado
in Oakland cemetery.
The arrival of 40 suits and 35 new coats Tuesday of this week affords the best opportunity of the season
to make your selections
Our Dry Goods Department
Thousands of yards of new wash goods materials for Thursday,
Friday and Saturday at 19c a yard. We doubt very much if you can
find another selection to equal this showing anywhere in Denison.
Marquisettes—Plain colors, tan, rose, purple, black and brown.
A very special- showing at 29c a yard.
Tissue gingham in stripes and checks. Priced at 16c a yard.
Pongee in stripes. A very fashionable cloth for your summer
.dresses and waists. Marked to retail at 29c "a yard. Priced at 19c a
yard.
A special showing of cotton poplin shown in the pink, lavender,
tan, brown and all the new summer shades. Regular 2J)c grade
priced very special for this week at 19c a yard.
y,.
COMMERCIAL CLUB
AFTER COLLEGE
Officers in Correspondence With Bap
tist Association Regarding Lo
cation of Baptist College.
SUBSCRIPTION COM. APPOINTED
Club Donates $25 to Buy Seed Corn
to Be Distributed Among School
Children of the County
The- regular monthy business ses
sion of the Commercial club was held
I Friday evening of last week with a
fair attendance:- and some important
matters were brought up before the
club for consideration.
Mr. George Xaeve called the atten
tion of the club to the fact that the
I Baptists were'going to locate a new
at some point in western Iowa
land suggested that Denison make a
proposition to the proper authorities
to locate the school in this city. It is
I understood that John D. Rockefellow,
who is a Baptist, will donate consider
able money for the founding of this
college. The club instructed Secre
tary R.
Man­|college
ning, has been engaged in the drug
business for the past twenty-five
years and he intends to keep up the
high standard of the store which he
has purchased.
DIED
Mrs. Frederick Hofert passed away
at the home of her daughter, Mrs. Her
bert Fuller, in the north part of the
city on Saturday, March 4th, after an
illness of several weeks.
Reka Anders was born in Germany
Nov. 4,
1SU8,
E.
Mote to correspond with
the officers of the Northern Baptist
conference and report at the next
meeting of the club. April 11th is the
date set by the Baptist committee on
the new location for the consolidated
Des Moines and Central colleges for
a report of their work. The commit
tee, which is composed of the boards
of trustees of Des Moines college and
Central college and a committee cf
the board of education of the North
ern1 Baptist conference, held a meet
ing last week at Des Moines, at which
Des Moines business 'men asked that
the college be located at that place.
We understand that several other
cities in the state are offering attract
ive propositions for the new college.
It might be possible that Denison
cculd securp this college if a propo
sition was made to donate.the present
college and dormitory, together with
the fine tract of land in Easft Denison.
It wouly make an ideal location for
the Baptist college. Mr. Mote received
a letter yesterday from Mr. G.
Mitchell, of Des Moines, stating that
he would inform the committee that
Denison would like to have an oppor
tunity of presenting a proposition for
the locating of the college at this
place.
President Lyon appointed a commit
tee of three to circulate a subscrip
tion list among the business' men of
Denison to raise money to help pay
the indebtedness of the college. The
committee lias already raised upwards
of $500.00, and expect to have a thous
and dollars by the last of the week. Ii
fit-'* fttiRh .r,, -rifi
Coats for Dress, For Sport Weir or for the Street
In a Variety of Woolen and Mixed Fabrics
You'll be delighted with the variety of models, fabrics and colors in this col
lection of Menagh coats. Matron or miss, there's a stylish, becoming model for
you to wear for outing, for street and for dress-up occasions. You may now
choose a coat made by well known eastern manufacturers in woolens or mixed fab
rics. Menagh garments embody the most select of materials and the tailoring—
every seam straight and true collars close titting edges thin and flat, and other
marksof expert workmanship that insure a well titting garment. It is this expert
tailoring that makes Menagh garments tit and wear so much better than ordinary
garments. You will find this week the best time of, the season to choose your Spring
coat. A special offering of new coats at $7.50, $9.85, $12 H5, $15, $19.50 and up.
Distinctive New Model—Silk braid and buttons are used with most artistic
taste to decorate this handsome new Menagh model. Soft tailoring permits lapels
to be worn buttoned to any point. No. 5870—Suit on the left $29.50.
Stylish Street Coat- Artistic use of silk braid gives deep yoke effect. Braid
bound cloth belt braided cuffs. Designed and, tailored with all the care that makes
Menagh garments so desirable. No. 8230—Coat on the right $25.
is planned to use a portion of this
money to wire the dormitory for'elec
tric lights.
The club at the Monday evening
meeting voted to donate $25.00 for the
purchase of seed corn, which is to be
distributed among the school children
of the county.
DAIRY TRAIN MARCH 17
Program for Denison Will Be Divided
Into Three Parts, Lectures, Cow
Show and Exhibition.
Arrangements have been about* com
pleted for the visit of the dairy train,
which will reach Denison -during the
afternoon of Friday, March 17th. The
special dairy train is run under the
auspices of the Iowa State Dairy asso
ciation and will visit towns on the I.
C. railroad in western Iowa. It will
be different from other dairy trains
which have visited Denison previously,
inasmuch as the meeting is to be long
er in order that sufficient time can lie
given to thoroughly discuss the sub
jects which are taken up.
The program here, in Denison will
be divided into three parts, th^ lec
tures, the local cow show and the ex
hibition at the depot. The Commer
cial club has made arrangements with
the school board for the high school
gymnasium on that day and the lec
tures will be delivered at that place at
1 o'clock in the afternoon of the 17th.
Following this the local cow show will
be held in the basement of the gym
nasium and several farmers have
promised to furnish milk cows for
demonstration purposes. Experts who
accompany the dairy train will -point
out the good qualities and defects of
these local cows and this feature of
the entertainment will prove beneficial
and interesting. At 3 o'clock the boys'
and girls judging contest will be held
aud all will be given ail opportunity
to judge the several m|lk cows that
will be in the basement of the gymnas
ium. Following the judging contest
the exhibit cars at the-Illinois Central
depot will be open to ihe public.
The dairy special will be of -particu
lar interest to farmers who have dairv
herds and who are anxious to improve
their herds to the highest standard
V»f
efficiency. Further announcement i*i
regard to the entertainment will be
published in the next ifrsue of the Re
view.
After serving two years as assistant
engineer of Crawford county, Wayne
Wilson tendered his resignation to the
board of supervisors, which resigna
tion took, effect March 1st. Mr. Wil
son lias assisted County Engineer
Fishel with all of the important bridge
and road work done in the county for
the past two years. We are told that
he is considering accepting a position
as engineer in one of the eastern coun
ties of the state.
In Our Millinery Style Shop
tion is larger than ever before. Priced at $5.00.
Other hats at $3.50 to ^18.
#vv
A special offering Saturday only of 35 pieces of fancy floral ribbon
suitable for trimming your old hat. This ribbon would retuil regu
larly at 50c a yard. Priced very special for Saturday only at 19c a yd.
Read Opening Chapters
of "The Girl and the
Game" in this issue.
Pictures March 8th.
No. 10
BETTER BABIES
MOVEMENT HERE
Entertainment Given by Pupils of the
West Brick School at Club Room
Last Friday Evening.
BABY'S HEALTH BABY'S WEALTH
Several Interesting Papers on Baby's
Health—Address by Dr. Phil
brook—Talk by Mr. Sims.
The entertainment given bv the chil
dren of the west brick school on Fri
day evening at the club room, as a
beginning to the "Baby Week" ex
hibit. was very much of a success and
much enjoyed by the vpr/large audi
ence in attendance. Mr. Jacob Sims
read a very able paper on diedetics,
which was very enjoyable apd instruct
ive and showed much interest and
preparation. The pastors of the dif
ferent church devoted their Sunday
morning services to "Child Welfare"
and excellent sermons were delivered
on this most interesting and important
subject.
This evening will conclude the week
devoted to the subject, when at 8.
o'clock another children's entertain
ment will be enjoyed, pupils rep
resenting the north brick and central
schools, furnishing the exercises,
which will be followed by an
address by Dr. B. F. Philbrook on the
subject of the care of the teeth. Some
valuable information and instruction
is to be derived from this lecture and
a large attendance is anticipated.
Much interest and enthusiasm has
been manifest during the past week
in the "Better Babies" movement over
the entire state of Iowa, and along
with the high ideals of the state for
better fftrnis and better towns has
been discussed better knowledge, bet
ter care and better babies as the best
means of securing better citizens and
a better Iowa. Iowa now is believed
by those residing within its borders of
intelligence and thrift to be about the
best spot in the whole United States,
but the good citizens of tWis state do
not intend to rest until its babies,
reach the highest point of perfection
which can be realized through the in
struction of the parents.
The bible .study classes of the city
will meet as follows on next Tuesday
afternoon for the purpose of studying
the 12th chapter o. the book of St.
John: District 1, Mra. W. E. Terry
district 2.' Mrs. Ellen Heiden district
3, Mrs. Frank WoolBton district 5.
Mrs. Charles Voss district .6, Mrs:
McElwain district 7, Mrs. Ira Gill
or.
I
8330
"Oh! Such lovely hats! And the price
is but $5.00. Menagh's always for the
best hats at $5.00," and we are only using
the words that we've heard many times by
our patrons. In fact, it seems that Deni
son women are favoring us more each sea
son, as the sales in this department have
increased by leaps and bounds. For
Thursday, Friday and Saturday of this
week we are showing a new collection of
hats at 55.00. In fact, the range of selec-
