fetter
4
TUB liEDCIER In an adrfrtlsJny .J.
mrnlnm (lint bring remit. 0nr .J
1 rales nro consistent trlth clrcn I
Inltoii, Honks open (0 Inspection. !
!
!!
- - .. I
rxrjrir KMPUBircAtr-iM.
' pail r rvBLta hr.Ddr.E-itu
MAYSVILLE, KENTUCKY, WEDNESDAY, MARCH 8, 1910.
van vorrONJs cent.
IfWef h 1 1 r '
4. .j, .j. .j. .j. j. PJ
wivki:.
You'll always tnnko n lilt nnd mnkc
Folks think thnt you nro bright,
It this ndvlco you'll Just take:
Just keep your mouth closed tight.
' Luko McLukc.
FIDDLEJMEST
Is Xow On, and The Ledger 11ns An
Old One Todny That Ccr.
talnly Has Whiskers.
Scvernl days ago The. Ledger pub
lished articles relntlvo to somo old
violins that were the property of cit
izens of Maysvlllc nnd Mnson county,
nnd at that time they woro "somo"
fiddles.
Now comes Mr. J. Vf. Moore with one
that certainly has tlio years hooked
to It. This violin is nn Antonlus
,8tradlvarlus Cremonentls Fnclobat
Anno, and the date on It Is A. D. 1713,
and the name Olc Hull follows the
date.
We'll say that this Is some fiddle.
See our solid gold fountain pens
with holder for 55 cents.
J. T. KACKLEY & CO.
IION'T FOlfflKT.
A meeting In tho Interest of all the
Mnysvlllo Sunday schools will bo hold
at tho Third Street M. E. church to
night at 7:30 o'clock. Tho members of
tho cxccutlvo commlttco, pastors, su
perintendents nnd nil others Interested
In Sunday school work nro urged to be
present, ns plans for "Qd-to-Sunday-School"
Sunday and n religious can
vass of tho city will bc'dlscusscd. lie
suro that at least two or thrco persons
nro there to represent your school. It
Is only by co-operation, that tho maxi
mum good can bo obtained lit the lo
cal work. If you fall down on your
part you nro hurting tho cntlro system
of work.
FRANK NASH, City President,
SCHOOL CIllIiDItDX TO
KliAXKFOKT.
VISIT
Saturday tho children of the city
and county schools will Journey to
Frankfort on a speclnl train to sec tho
capltol, tho Legislature In session and
other historical points of Interest.
MAIL OltDKHS PltOMl'TIiY FILLED.
For nil grades of whiskies and
liquors. Our prices nro right. Order
today. Poyntz Pros., Covington, Ky.
Mr. nnd Mrs. John O. Pylcs of Sel
man, Md., nro tho guests of his par
ents, Mr. and Mrs. Henry Pyles of tho
county.
Harbeson Garage
Will Put Your Car
Good Order For
Spring
in
Parts and Sup
plies Gars For Hire
Goodyear
i$S akron.ohio
Fortified Tires
FORTIFIED AGAINST
Rim-CuUi-by the No-Klm-Cut feature.
3lowout by the "On-Air" cure.
Loom Tred by many rubber rivets.
Insecurity by 126 braided piano wires.
Punctures and Sklddim by the double
thick AU-Weather tread.
SPLENDIDMEETING
(Jntlierlng of Men At First I'rcsby.
terlnn Church Tuesday Night
For Y. 31. C. A.
Purposes.
ill 1 111
AUTISTIC CAIIINET WORK
la easily possible with the aid of our
mill work. We make so many things
for the home that you certainly should
come and sec how readily you can have
a handsome homo with tho finest cabl
net work at a very moderate expense,
Como even If you haven't any present
intention to Iniprovo your abode.
The Mason Lumber Company
Corner Limestone and Second Streets.
Phono 319.
A. A. 3IcLnughlln. L. II. Ilchaii.
Plowing Time
Will Be Here, Just As Soon As
the Sun Shines Hot
J so, be ready, Farmers, to take advantage
of the first pretty days. We are ready
for you, with a splendid line of Plows, both
Oliver and Sycrause, Points, Handles,
Shares, Mouldboards, etc. Just phone us
your wants.
jjj If you need a good Rake, Hoe, Mat
B tock, Ax, Fork, or, in fact, any tool needed
B on the farm, just tell it to us. We have
good ones in stock, at the right prices.
Just received, a shipment of the neat
est Wheelbarrows you ever saw. Need
one?
Yours, for good Plowing Weather,
soon.
MIKE BROWN
"THE SQUARE DEAL MAN"
IUUUIIIK
i
CLAM CHOWDER
i Finnan Haddock, Bloateri, Herring, Codllslt, Shrimp, Lobsters, Crabs,
tiFlik Flukes, Tuna Fish, Fat Mackerel, Aueborloes In Oil, Caralr, Oysters,
;JirtHe. Seasonable right how and (he qaalltjr flae. Send us your order.
mtlML A OOK1AQ FbeiM 41.
Scvoral days ago Invitations wcro
sent out by tho stnto commlttco of the
best auxiliary tho church at work has
In tho nation, tho Young Men's Chris
tian Association, Inviting tho men of
Mnysvlllo to a banquet.
Much theorizing was done nnd much
talk Indulged In ns to tho general pur
ports of this meeting, many thinking
an attempt was to bo made to reor
ganize tho Young Men's Christian As
sociation in this city, but such was not
the case. It was a meeting of Instruc
tlon In tho work being dono by this
splendid organization throughout Ken
tuoky, not only in tho cities, but In the
rural districts as well, and from these
reports it was shown that tho young
men wcro not being neglected.
Dr. James D. Wood acted toastmaS'
tor and very capably filled tho bill,
Tho first number on the program
was tho banquet served by tho Ladles
Aid Society of the First Presbyterian
church, and as tho truo way or reach
ing the best that Is in man Is throng)
tho Inner man, this was done In a way
that every man present was thorough
ly converted to the work of tho asso
elation, ns the supper was a most
enjoyable one, as was evidenced by
the way It was taken care of by those
present, showing that the ladles knew
just what particular brand of eating
was necessary for tho occasion, and
the daintiness in which It was served
showed them to be adepts In this line.
After the splendid supper, Mr. P. I.
Corbln, one of tho stnto workers, gave
an Illustrated lecture on tho work of
tho Y. M. C. A. being dono In this
state, which was well received, there
being many new phases of tho work
under way hitherto unknown here
Mr. C. C. Curran, county work sccrc'
tary, and Mr. S. O. Harris, boys' work
secretary, made addresses on their rc-
spectlve lines of work, which were live
and interesting. The boys' work of
the association Is the main stem, nnd it
Is receiving splendid attention from
tho very capable head In charge, Mr
Harris.
Rov. A. P. Stahl made a short talk
that was one of the hits of the eve
nlng.
The main address of tho evening and
one thnt will bo long remembered by
all present as about as masterly an ef
fort as was ever heard here, was that
of Mr. A. G. Uookwalter, metropolitan
secretary of Cincinnati. His lino of
thought and the manner in which It
was handled was Just a little differ
cnt from anything ever presented to
an audlcnco hero before, and Mr.
Dookwalter proved himself a thor
oughly capable and highly efflclent
man for tho most commendable work
In which ho Is engaged, and a return
engagement of this gentleman Is earn
estly requested.
Prof. G. C. Manco closed tho talk
ing fest by a very timely local np
plication, which, with his vast knowl
edge of boys' wants and needs, shows
him to bo a powerful lover In tho up
lift and moral training of our boys.
This meeting Is bound to bo fruit
ful of good In this community, and we
predict that the schools of Maysvllle
will lino up with other forces that
havo been dormant but wcro given n
now Impetus and that ero long Mays
vlllo's boys and young men will be
pulling tho tall feathers out of the
state commlttco for a place alongside
their star workers elsewhere.
STItOXG GALE TUESDAY.
Tuesday afternoon about C:30 a se
vere .March wind camo down over the
hills nnd up tho river. It blow down a
flno treo In front of Mr. Ned Drown
ing resldcnco, then It Jumped over to
Henry Chllds' homo and leveled an old
land mark. The treo In Its fall de
molished tho fenco In front of the
house Coming up Second tho wind
partially unroofed tho building occu
pied by Mr. I Y. Whocler. On Front
street It blow down a treo in front of
Mr. 0. V. Gclsel's home. Whltecnps
In tho river wero from throo to four
feet high and tho numerous hontH
from Wall to Market street woro en
dangered.
A wall back of Mr. Pearl nivtho'a
property was blown over, damaging
his property considerably. Tho wall
was tho ono remaining from tho old
building that foil several years aeo
on Wall stroot. Tho Joergor property
on Short stroot was damaged, as was
also a portion of the roof of tho dye
bouse at tho Cotton Mills,
HEATH AT IJfFIHJIAItY.
Mike McDonoueh. an Inmntn nf tlia
county Infirmary, died Wednesday
morning at 7:30 from cancor of the
stomach, Tho funeral arrangements
arc to be announced later. Durlal
will take olace In the Cathnlln com.
MUCK STREETS CONTRACT LET.
Mnysvlllo will soon bo busy Im
proving her streets. Tho contracts for
paving tho streets west of Union Htreet
wcro nwnrded Tuesday night.
Contract No. 1. All the streets be
low tho bridge except Ilrldgo street,
goes to Schoolficld & Jonos of Coving
ton. Specifications arc as follows:
Peebles repressed brick with tar filler,
concrete foundation on nil streets ex
cept Court street, which Will bo paved
with Trinidad sheet asphalt. Kutlrc
contract $21,098.00. On motion this
contract wan awarded.
Contract No. 2. Hrldgc street and
Hast Second street from Limestone
bridge to I'nlon street. This contract
was awarded to VaBtln, Noland &
Lowory of Covington, Its specifica
tions nro Carlisle repressed brick with
tar filler, concrete foundation. En
tiro contract $43,472.45. On motion
this contract was awnrded.
Contract No. 3. t'nlon street to
Cnrmcl street, to bo asphalted. Tho
contract was not awarded becauso the
city engineer Is unfamiliar with Aztec
asphalt, but as soon ns its qualities
aro ascertained, It writ be decided who
gets the contract.
THE HAHKLEY SHOE STORK.
The Ilnrkloy Shoo Company, Incor
porated, has moved into its now place
of business, 3!) West Second street.
The front has been remodeled nnd a
a handsome vestibule front has taken
tho place of the old time entrance.
Tho show windows nro models of
neatness and beauty. Above these
prism glass admits a subdued light to
the interior of tho room. Tho latest
model chair for a shoe emporium
awaits the customer. At night the
room Is lighted by tho celebrated
"Uras-Co-Lito," tho most up-to-date
method of storo illumination. The
store room reflects credit upon Mr
Jeff EaMnn, the contractor.
At the Unrklcy shoo storo nro to bo
found the latest designs of footwenr.
The storo Is under tho direct man
agement of Mr. Harry Uarkley, pres
ident and general mannger, who, with
his efficient sales force, accord to pat
ron and stranger nlike, courtcuos
treatment nnd a comfortable fit.
The Ladles' Aid Society of the For
est Avenue M. E. church will meet
Thursday afternoon at 2 o'clock at
the home of Mrs. S. H. Hnrrlson on
Enst Second street.
OPERETTA.
"Tho Posoy IJed" will bo given In
tho High School Auditorium on Fri
day night, March 10, beginning at H
o'clock. There will bo beautiful
lyrics sung by grade children, clad In
dnlnty, nlry costumes.
Miss Hnrtlcrodo and Miss Shaw are
directing Its production. Wo nro anti
cipating a crowded house, as the oper
etta given annually has always drawn
a largo crowd, and this promises to bo
up to tho high standard wo havo pre
viously maintained.
Admission 25 nnd .15 cents,
HODI'-STAKKlt.
Mr. Lester Stnkcr of tho firm of
Stnkcr Uros., of Market street, and
Miss Colin Bode, sprung n surprise on
their friends Tuesday morning. Miss
Hode left homo npparcntly to go to
her work nt Dan Cohen's shoo store.
Instead of that she was met by Mr.
Stnkcr and tho young couple went to
Covington nnd wcro mnrrlcd. Friends
wero surprised when telegrnms were
received announcing their marriage.
Mrs. Salllo S. Hall of East Second
street, entertained n number of her
friends Tuesday evening with a the
ater party nt tho Wnshlngton In honor
of Mrs. lxswls K. Parry of Pittsburg,
LIGHTHOUSE CLEANSER i
Lightens Housework
m Will Do the Work Any Other Cleanser Will 5
Do. Same Size Can. Only 5c Per Can, 3
S Dinger Bras., Bt-1
SMART AM ATTRACTIVE NEW
WALLPAPER DESIGNS AT HEN-
DRICKSON'S.
Mr and Mrs. A. A. Dalo of Carlisle
aro tho guests of Prof, C S. Dalo on
West Second street.
tion.
FOR ROUGH SKIN, HANDS AND FACE
Almond Cream Compound. 1
Benzoin and Almond Lotion. m
Hind's Honey, Almond and Cream. 5
Three of the best on the market. 5
ror chapped hands and hand tetter use Willis' Hand Lo
ML F. WILLIAMS DRUG COMPANY B
QUJ0K SERVICE. PHONE 01. S
All the latest patterns In wallpaper
at CRANE & SHAFEIt'S.
The funeral of Mrs. Charles Cox will
be held this afternoon at 2 o'clock.
THE HOME DF QUALITY GLDTHES
whether you fully realize the state of affairs in the clothing world these days.
Talk to any clothing manufaclurer he'll tell you!
ALARMING ADVANCES
in the market prices of woolens, trimmings, dye-stuffs, etc., will send the selling
figures of next winter's clothing up mighty high.
The way out is for you to get a suit and overcoat NOW while we are
felling them at greatly reduced prices.
And such famous makes as Society Brand, R. B. Fashion, Stein-Bloch,
Hirsh-VVickwire and Mich;uls, Stern 6c Co.
There was every reason for carrying over our stock but that's not our
way of doing business.
D. EiEOXinNTG-EJK. &. CO.
Thursday Opens Hunt's 1916 Silk Sale
It is to be n silk season. Fashion decrees silk combinations of all sorts. Silk nnd serge. Silk and Georgette Crepe.
Silk and tub voile. Silk suits, silk frocks, silk shirts, silk blouses, silk skirts, silk petticoats. "Wo have prepared a note wor
thy stock for this sale.
Practically every kind of fashionable silk, taffeta, plaid, cliarmeuse, satin, meteor, faille, grosgrain, brocade, printed silk,
wash silk and novelty silk mixtures, at prices ranging from 2'Jo to $2.2.1 a yard.
It is a stock worth seeing. Come in you won't be disappointed. The Silks are Priced not to Bring as much as Possi
ble but to Sell as Quickly as Possible.
New Suits
The one-of-n-kind garment you want because there is no danger your neighbor can buy ono like yours.. New models of
distinguished style. Good looking suits at $lf, $17, $18. Handsome models at $25 to $135.
White Coats
Specially purchased these stunning unlined white chinchilla and yama cloth coats. Girls will love them. Thoy aro
smartly loose, belted and pocketed of course. $7, $12.
Tho Infant child of Mr. and Mrs.' Our now Spring wnllpapcrs are
Sam Madden died Tuesday about mid- ready for your inspection. Como in.
night from pneumonia. ' CRANE & SIIAFER.
Ono of the severest blizzards of tho Our price this week for buttcrfat,
winter Is sweeping around the Great 36 cents, Maysvlllc.
Lakes. MAYSVILLE MODEL CREAMERY.
66
The Silks Are Beautiful
99
That's what they all say, and you must be the judge. All the wanted colors arc here in taffetas, crepe
de chines, messalines, radium, etc.
Come in now and let us plan that new silk dress.
Our Spring Suits and Coats are unmatchable. Silk Suits, Check Suits, Combination Suits, Poplins, etc.
$12.95 TO $35
Have you seen the new Sport Coats made of Jersey cloth in tr-e new sport colors?
The EAGLE" Shirt sale continues, and the people who know are buying them by the dozen.
8
etery at WahlBton,
HU
