I
I
VOLUME XXXVII.
LAW MAY SHORTEN
OFFICIALS' TERMS
FOUR YEAR TERM BELIEVED IN
CONFLICT WITH STATE CON-
STITUTION.
JUSTICE HALLAM RAISES POINT
IN RENDERING DULUTH
DECISION.
"As a matter of fact, county officers in
every county in the state today are
holding under a statute fixing their term
at four years from the first Monday in
January, 1915, and until their successors
are elected and qualified. This term
exceeds the constitutional limit fixed by
section 9, article 7 of the constitution,
which permits no hold-over at all. But
it has never been cohsidered that such
statutes are void except as to excess
over the constitutional limit."
With the above side remark in render
ing a decision in the case involving the
legal term of office of a muncipal judge
at Duluth, Judge Hallam of the Minne
sota Supreme Court has thrown the term
of every county officer in the State of
'Minnesota open for contest, at least
after the first two years of the four-year
term have expired. Legal sharps who
have made a study of the present elec
tion laws and their relation to the state
constitution are of the opinion that
he law passed by the 1913 legislature
is in conflict with the constitution and
will not hold water when attacked in
the courts.
It is pointed out that the constitutional
amendment adopted November 6, 1883,
refers to a\\ state, county and state
officers, except judicial officers, the terms
of the latter already having been fixed
by the original draft of the constitution.
The term of office of clerks of courts also
had been provided for in the original
draft.
Section 9, article 7, of the constitution
above referred to fixes the official
year of the state and then fixes the terms
of all state and county officers in the
following language: "The first general
election for state and county officers,
except judicial officers, after the adoption
of this amendment, shall be held in this
year 1884, and thereafter the general
election shall be held biennially. All
state, county and other officers elected
at any general election, whose terms
S of office would otherwise expire on the
first Monday of January, 1886, shall
hold and continue in such offices, re
spectively, until the first Monday in
1 January, 1887."
The law passed by the 1913 legislature
makes the question of which officers are
meant by "county officers" somewhat
clearer by enumerating them separately,
as follows: "In every county in this
state there shall be elected at the gen
eral election in 1914, and not before, a
county auditor, county treasurer, sheriff,
register of deeds, county attorney, coro
ner, county surveyer and county super
intendent of schools.
"The second section specifies the terms
of office as follows: "The terms of office
of the said county officers shall be four
years and until their successors are elect
ed and qualified and shall begin on the
first Monday in January next succeeding
said election and said offices shall be
filled by election every four years there
after."
The intent of the law in either case
to the layman is very plain. Before the
passage of the law of 1913 there could
not have been found a lawyer in the en
tire state who would have questioned
the fact that the constitution provided
for a two-year term of office for the
officials except those whose terms had
previously been fixed. No attempt has
been made at any time to disturb the
fixed time of elections, however irregular
they may have been previous to 1884.
It is an unquestioned fact that a law
passed by the state legislature cannot
abbrogate a constitutional amendment
or change any section of the constitu
tion and no section of the constitution
can be changed except by passage of
another constitutional amendment.
The only question which seems un
answered is whether or not the last
clause of the constitutional amendment
becomes retroactive insofar as it refers
to the expiration of the terms of office
in the last clause and the reference to
the holding of biennial elections in the
second quoted above.
The question, now that it has been
raised by the newspapers, will no doubt
result in the filing of some one who has
& an interest in the final outcome and it
would not be a surprise at all to see a
filing for one or the other of the county
offices offered to the county auditor.
The action of the county auditor can
easily be surmised. Being himself one
of those vitally interested and having
the laws of 1913 to go by the he would be
other than human if he accept the filing.
Whoever files, however, will have made
arrangements previously and will im
mediately bring mandamus proceedings
against the county auditor. The ques
tion being one attacking the constitution
ality of a state law, would no doubt Be
brought to the immediate attention of
the supreme court, of which august body
Judge Hallam who made the remark re
ferred to in the opening paragraph of
this article is a member. Whether or not
the other members of the supreme court
would hold in accord with Judge Hallam,
is, of course, idle speculation.
Should the supreme court hold the 1913
law unconstitutional, there certainly
would be some scramble of candidates to
get into the game and the campaigns of
former years, when candidacies were
more or less cooked and dried long be
fore election time, would be relegated to
the rear as a mere circumstance.
Officials of Brown county who were
informed of the new phase of things as
to the length of their terms, did not seem
disturbed in the least and as they are
safely ensconsed in office for four years
unless somebody else gets a hankering
foT their office they are letting the other
fellow do the worrying.
TURNERS ARRANGE
ATHLETICPROGRAM
STATE CONVENTION WILL CON-
CLUDE WITH EXHIBITION BY
ATHLETES.
VISITORS TO BE GUESTS OF
LOCAL SOCIETY DURING
THEIR VISIT.
Athletic exhibitions will be held in
connection with the fiftieth annual con
vention of the Minnesota Turnbezirk to
be held in this city next Saturday and
Sunday. The exhibition will be under
the supervision of the state gymnastic
director of the society, Otto Modler
of Minneapolis and will be held in the
gymnasium of Turner Hall. Quite a
number of the St. Paul and Minneapolis
athletes are expected in the city next
Saturday afternoon, although the ex
hibition will not take place until Sunday
afternoon, beginning at 3 o'clock.*
The program for Sunday afternoon as
prepared by the athletic director is as
follows:
1. Practicing from 3 to 3:30.
Song by the assembled Turners, "Mein
Liebchen ist die Turnerei."
2. Exercises in marching and running,
directed by Prof. A. Schintz.
3. Calisthenics, directed by Prof.
Hein.
4. Play: Passball in circle forma
tion.
5. Exercises on the apparatus.
6. Dodgeball.
Preparations for the entertainment of
the delegates and visiting Turners are
being made by a committee of the local
society. The majority of the delegates
will arrive Friday evening and will be
guests at an informal reception at the
Turner Hall club rooms that evening.
The first session of the convention will be
called to order at 10 o'clock Saturday
morning by Carl G. Schober of Minne
apolis, president of the Minnesota Turn
bezirk. The business sessions will be
continued in the afternoon and next day.
The lecture on Friday evening, be
ginning at 8 o'clock, by Martin L. Bunge
of the Nordamerikanische Turnzeitung
will be free to the general public and as
the topic of the lecturer is of interest to
all citizens regardless of their nativity a
large attendance is anticipated. Mr.
Bunge's topic is "United States and Ger
many, the Two Leading Nations of the
World, and Their Relation Before and
After the War." Mr. Bunge also speaks
to the delegates to the convention and
members of the Turnverein Saturday
evening. The first lecture is under the
auspices of the local society and the
second has been arranged by the state
society.
Mr. Bunge is at present on a lecture
tour which covers the entire northern
tier of states. He already has filled his
engagements in the East and expects to
extend his tour to California and other
Pacific coast states.
Redwood Falls will have four days of
county fair, the dates having been set
for Sept. 27, 28, 29 and 30. The race
program having proved popular in past
years, is again to be made a part of the
fair this year and the purses have been
increased to attract the attention of
owners of race horses of high class.
BASE BALL OUTFIT
OFFERED ON BLOCK
PERFECTLY GOOD GRANDSTAND
WITH BLEACHERS AND FENCE
TO BE SOLD.
OTHER ACTIONS LIKELY TO BE
STARTED FOR DEBTS IN
CURRED IN 1914.
Property belonging to the New Ulm
Baseball Association will be sold by the
sheriff Saturday, March 18th to satisfy
a judgment granted W. H. Hubmer
during the last session of the district
court.
The judgment totals $73.75 and was
granted as the result of a suit by Mr.
Hubmer to recover approximately $40
due him for the lodging of ball players
during the 1914 season. The season
turned out rather disastrously and
although a part of the debts were liqui
dated, the officers of the association did
not feel that they should be made the
"goat" for the entire amount. It is said
that other claims aggregating several
hundred dollars are still outstanding and
the creditors are threatening to bring
suit against the individual members of
the association if the several amounts are
not paid.
The sheriff has levied upon the proper
ty of the association, including in the list
of assets the wooden grandstand and
bleachers at the ball grounds and the
canvas which was used as a fence.
It is estimated that the grandstand
and bleachers alone are worth $250 to an
association which would establish a ball
team in the city the coming year and
there is a movement on foot by one of
the minor ball clubs to purchase the
seating accommodations and secure a
lease upon the grounds. The canvas
represents an investment of several
hundred dollars more and will in all
probability bring enough at the sheriff's
sale to satisfy the judgment.
While business men are prone to
criticise the officials of the ball club for
not meeting their obligations the officials
defend their course in pointing out that
they were in no way the beneficiaries of
the games played in this city during the
1914 season, but that in fact the business
men were the ones benefited and should
stand at least a part if not all of the ex
pense incurred.
Talk of organizing a ball club for 1916
is again the topic of the fans and it is
possible that a concerted movement to
gain possession of the stands and other
paraphernalia will be made in the near
future to prevent its removal from the
grounds and possibly from the city/
TWO PROGRAMS ARRANGED FOR
"BABY WEEK."
Considerable interest is being mani
fested in the program provided for what
is known throughout the country as
"Baby Week". It will be observed in
this city on March 17 and 19, with
lectures and musical and literary pro
grams. Printed matter on the care of
infants has been gathered by a volun
tary committee and this will be dis
tributed at the meetings to be held at the
High School Auditorium.
The programs for the two meetings
follow:
Friday March 17th, 7:30 P. M.
Instrumental Duet by Gladys Grussen
dorf and Winona Alwin.
"Preventative Diseases or Contagious
Diseases", Dr. G. B. Weiser.
Vocal Solo—Mrs. C. G. Reim.
Vocal Trio—Mrs. W. G. Alwin, Mrs. L.
G. Bell and Mrs. H. Hein.
Stereopticon lecture on Public Health,
Nursing and the Visiting Nurse, Dr.
C. G. Hohn.
Song by Girls Glee Club.
Mothers Meeting.
Sunday March 19—2:30 P. M.
Instrumental Solo—Miss Lucy Marti.
Prenatal Care—Dr. G. F. Reineke.
Trio—Mrs. W. G. Alwin, Mrs. L. G.
Bell and Mrs. H. Hein.
Care of the Teeth—Dr. H. Rieke.
Vocal Solo—Mrs. W. B. Mather.
Dietetics—Dr. T. F. Hammermeister.
Wabasso, one of the towns which went
dry last year, is now unable to pay for
a watchman. The village council could
not see its way clear to provide funds for
paying a marshal regularly employed,
and so that officer was dismissed from
service. Then the three councilmen
vested themselves each with a marshal's
authority and agreed to serve in that
capacity, whenever needed, free of charge
to the village.
NEW ULM, BROWN COUNTY, MINNESOTA, WEDNESDAY, MARCH 8,1916.
CLUB, ADYOCATES
BOARD OF CENSORS
WOULD PREVENT BEGGING AND
FAKE ADVERTISING
SCHEMES
BANQUET DECIDED UPON, ALSO
FARMERS' AND BUSINESS
MENS' DAY
An exceptionally well attended meet
ing of the Commercial Club was held at
the club rooms Monday evening and
thruout a keen interest was manifested
by those present in the matters requiring
the attention of the club. More than
sixty were present and twenty-one new
members were added to the roll which
brings the total membership to 189.
Only eleven more members are needed
to bring the membership to 200, the goal
set for the year by the officers at the time
they assumed office last-fall.
The matters that called forth the most
animated discussion were in reference to
the annual banquet which is to be held
some time in April and the matter of the
appointment of a board of censors.
Several months ago the committee having
this matter in charge reported that the
city authorities favored the creation of
such a board and it was left in the hands
of the Mayor to make such appointments.
Mayor Fritsche having neglected to
make such appointments, the matter .was
again brought up for discussion.
Prof. Ackermann, a member of the
committee, outlined in terse language the
need of such a board and its duties which
he considereed to be two-fold, first, to
put an end to indiscriminate begging and,
second, to prevent fake advertising.
The sentiment of the meeting was strong
ly in favor of the creation of a board of
censors. Nothing further was done in
the matter, exept to refer it back to the
committee, the prevailing opinion favor
ing the appointment of such board by the
Club if the Mayor should do nothing be
fore they convene again in April.
Every one present favored having a
banquet again this year and it will be
held at Turner Hall some time in April
at such time as the Entertainment Com
mittee, to whom the matter of the ar
rangements was turned over, might agree
upon. It was while the banquet was
under discussion that F. H. Retzlaff
voiced his sentiments in favor of having
a get-together meeting with the farmers
tributary to New Ulm and having ad
dresses from them in which they could
set forth their views. An afternoon
meeting for this purpose would seem the
most feasible plan and a committee of
five consisting of Chas. A. Stolz, F. H.
Retzlaff, Emil Metzinger, A. O. Olsen
and Foster Fischer were appointed by
the chair to make the necessary arrange
ments for Farmers' Day.
F. H. Retzlaff remarked that he was
in a talkative mood and proceeded to
prove it by launching into a discussion
of the need for a credit bureau and
likened the New Ulm business men to
Rip van Winkles who have been asleep
for the past 40 years. Quite a number
took part in the discussion and even after
the Club had adjourned this all-important
subject was discussed by groups of busi
ness men. The statement was made
that the merchants of New Ulm carry
over $200,000 in the shape of book
accounts. This, every one agreed, was
too much, but as to the methods to be
employed in solving this question there
were divergent opinions. No action was
taken, except that President Ottomeyer
volunteered to make another effort to
secure Mr. Zuppinger of Minneapolis to
deliver an address to the merchants on
the subject of credits and rating.
Owing to the inability of Supt. August
Mueller to secure the necessary literature
and information about "Whitways",
the gentlemen who favor the extension of
the Whiteway on First North Street and
First South Street from Minnesota Street
at least as far as the depots, were not
ready to report. In the course of the
discussion of this matter, it cropped out
that one firm who believes in the "White
way" movement has agreed to donote
$250 for this purpose. Chas. Vogtel,
Ferdinand Cfone, J. A. Ochs, Henry N.
Somsen and Supt. August J. Mueller
who were the originators of this move
ment were appointed a committee to look
after it in the interest of the Club.
S. P. Randall of Fairmont who was in
the city recently for the purpose of es
tablishing a business college here and
who had intended to discuss his propo
sition with the Commercial Club at
Monday's meeting wired that he could
not be present. This was be the end of
this project, especially as some opposition
has developed to the proposition among
^^m^^^m^m^mvi
rtrtrlti
the friends of the Commercial Depart
ment which was started in the High
School last fall.
J. F. Armstrong reported that with the
exception of six, all the active members of
the Club had signed a relinquishment
giving up all their interest in the furniture
and equipment of the Club and that by
the next meeting the signatures of all the
active members would have been se
cured to the relinquishment and that at
that time the committee would also
present the necessary amendments to the
by-laws which the relinquishment would
make imperative.
Thru the President, the Committee on
Industries reported that the proposition
of Mayer Bros, of Mankato to remove
their foundry to New Ulm if the citizens
here would subscribe $25,000 worth of
stock could not be carried out for the
simple reason that it was impossible to
interest enough people to subscribe to
that amount of stock.
The committee on forming an ad club
for New Ulm wa& not ready to jeport and
was given time until next meeting to do EO.
The committee on the municipal heat
ing plant project reported thru Alf. J.
Vogel that they had visited the heating
plants at Marshall and Brookings, S. D.
At the time they were at Marshall, the
plant was being changed from a partly
private and partly municipal heating
plant into an all municipal heating plant.
(Continued on last page.)
STATELTSUGGESTS
RDRAL CLUB FAIRS
BEST EXHIBITS FOR LATER CEN
TRAL FAIR CAN THUS
SECURED.
BROWN AND REDWOOD DELE-
GATES MEET AT SPRING
FIELD MARCH 31.
Farmers' Club fairs are being suggested
asthe result of a meeting-of the Stately"
Club, held last Saturday evening and
it is possible that the movement will
be taken up by other the farmers'
organizations throughout this and the
neighboring counties and a farmers' club
fair of large proportions arranged for.
The meeting of the Stately organization
was addressed by Senator L. E. Potter
and it was in his talk that the idea was
advanced.
the ball rolling by calling a meeting of
representatives of the farmers' clubs of
Brown and Redwood counties for March
31 at Springfield, as will be seen from
the following extract from a letter to the
Review by the secretary of the club:
Senator Potter suggested that each
Farmers' Club in Brown and Redwood
counties unite in giving what may be
termed a Farmers' Club fair, to be held
at some centrally located point the latter
part of October each Club to assemble
an exhibit of farm produce, consisting of
grains, vegetables, fruits, grasses, in
cluding sewing, cooking, canning, etc.,
from which the best specimens will be
selected for the purpose of exhibit at the
central fair. The Senator also sug
gested the advisability that each club
pay a small permium for the exhibit at
the local club fair, which would naturally
have a tendency of creating active in
terest at the very outset, and then the
committee for the Central Fair would
make the necessary arrangements that
ample premiums would be paid for the
big event.
Following along the lines of the above
suggestions made by Senator Potter, it is
desired that each Farmers' Club in the
two counties select a delegate to meet at
Springfield on Friday, March 31st, 1916,
at 3 o'clock P. M., in the banking room
of the First National Bank, for the
purpose of making the preliminary ar
rangements for the event. All clubs
desiring further information are re
quested to correspond with Adolph
Schmid, Comfrey, Minn., Secretary of
the Stately Farmers' Club, or Senator L.
B. Potter, Springfield, Minn.
SUPT. HESS RE-ELECTED.
At the regular monthly meeting of the
school board held Monday evening the
present superintendent of the city
schools, Prof. H. C. Hess, was re-elected
for another two years at the present
salary.
Prof. Hess also gave an interesting
account of his trip to Detroit and the pro
ceedings at the national superintendents'
convention.
5
The resignation of the janitor at the
Washington school was accepted and
Mr. Macho appointed to the place.
4
BE
Lin^r
HISTORICAL
SOCIETY.
NUMBER 10
ELECTRIC CHARGES
COUNCIL PROBLEM
EQUITABLE MOTOR RATES REAL
QUESTION FOR COMMITTEE
TO SOLVE
MINIMUM ELECTRICITY CHARGE
ONLY IS PROVIDED BY PRES-
ENT SCHEDULE
Water and electric rates are becoming
a problem for the members of the New
Ulm city council which will make some
of them burn the midnight oil if they
go into the matter in a manner which
will solve it. At present the entire pro
position is in an almost hopeless tangle
and the more suggestions are being made
to unravel the knotty problem, the more
tangled became the skeins.
Monday afternoon the water and
light committee met at the council
chambers in conference with the super
intendent of the plant, the city clerk and
city engineer. They had planned to go
jnto the power rates thoroughly but at
the conclusion of the session were no
nearer the solution of the problem than
when they started, *ith the exception
that they understood more thoroughly
the present condition and the enormity
of the task before them.
One of the plans presented to the com
mittee proposes making a minimum rate
for each horse power indicated by the
motor and then charging on a graduated
scale according to the amount of electri
city used. This schedule is said to be in
force in several of the cities of the size of
New Ulm in this and other states. Un
der discussion this plan is being found
defective, however, because in many in
stances a motor of large horsepower is
used only occasionally and the rate
would as a consequence become prohibi
tive for the customer. Motors used on
freight elevators are given as one of
many such instances. It requires some
thing like ten horse power for an ordinary
freight elevator. The apparatus is only
used occasionally and the motor can not
be used for any other purpose. Under
a mimimum rate of say 50 cents per
month per horse power the owner of a 10
horse power motor would be paying $5.00
per month even if the elevator is used
only on one day of the month as is some
times the case. Whatever electricity is
„, )*sed is an additional charge. A rate of
argued, because the owners of large
motors using but a small amount of
electricity would be paying a large
premium to the city. The user of a
greater amount of electricity on the other
hand would be using the motor constant
ly and could afford to pay the per horse
power rate.
The present rate in which changes are
being contemplated, is as follow*: From
1 to 5 horsepower, 75 cents per month
5 to 10 horsepower, $1.00 per month
10 horse power and over, $1.50 per
month. The above rates, however, are
not a minimum charge for that size of
motor, but a minimum charge for elec
tricity. In other words the customer
who owns a 10 horse power motor may
use electricity amounting up to $1.50 per
month. There is no minimum charge
for the motor but a minimum charge for
the electricity used in motors of a certain
size.
The rate question was to come up at
last evening's meeting of the city council
but because of the intricacies of the sub
ject no definite action could be expected.
MAYOR OF MANKATO DIES
HOSPITAL.
August G. Meyer mayor of Mankato,
died Saturday following an operation
Wednesday for gall stones. He had
been in failing health for some months,
and his operation was delayed by an
attack of jaundice. He was one of Man
kato's most prominent men, and was
serving his fourth term as mayor.
Born in Hanover, Prussia, in 1853, he
came to America in 1868, and to Mankato
in 1886 from near Owatonna, where he
had farmed. He engaged in the monu
ment business and rapidly became
wealthy.
Mr. Meyer was a Democrat until the
free silver issue of 1896, when he joined
the Republican party. After serving as
alderman he has been mayor most of the
time since 1909. He was the first mayor
in Minnesota under a commission form
of government.
He belonged to the Masons, Knights
Templar, Odd Fellows, Modern Wood
men and A. O. U. W. His widow and
eight of ten children survive him. The
city council will choose his successor.
*k
AT
"I
5.
