THE BARM DAILY TIMES
VOL. XIX-NO. 303.
UAHKK, VERMONT, WKDXKSDAY, MAKCII 8, 1910.
HUCK, OXK CHXT.
LOST TRENCHES
RECAPTURED
BYTHE FRENCH
The Positions in Champagne
Which Were Seized by the
Germans on March 6 Are
Again in French Hands,
According to Semi-Officia
Announcement . , .
NORTK OF VERDUN,
SITUATION THE SAME
No Infantry Attacks Were
Made Last Night, but Ar
tillery Fighting Still Con
tinues Germans Report
ed to Have Failed in Last
Charge .,
Paris, via London, March 8. In Cham
pagne, the French have recaptured por
tions of the trenches lost on March 6,
according to a semi-official announce
ment to-day. The situation north of
Verdun is unchanged. No infantry at
tacks were made last night, the an
nouncement says. Artillery fighting continues.
Berlin, via London, March 8. The cap
ture of French positions west of the
Meuse on both sides of Forges brook be
low Bethincourt was announced by the
army headquarters to-day. It also was
announced that the villages of Forges and
Regneville, the heights of Raben and the
Gumieres woods are in German posses
sion. Fifty-eight officers, 3,200 men, ana
ten cannon were captured in the Woevre
district. The French have been driven
out of the last houses they held in the
village of Fresnes, and more than 700
prisoners have been made there.
Passing on the ground won Monday
and Tuesday in the impetuous dash
southward to the west of Meaduse, the
forces of the German crown prince, fight-
is remaining Idle in Kiel canal without! r pr M I fmT'f V f"!""
Homo further tuipreino effort for its de-1 lC U W V I f lkf pp
velopmont is unthinkable. UL.IllUIVll I
"IIk'ho new ships are what the coun
try relies on to meet and overcome any
further development (ierniany may have
lllHtltl.
"It is with a deep sense of reaponsibil
ity that these, word of warning are
aiioken, continued Colonel Churchill
"It's not too late for action, and the
admiralty niiiHt hurl itself into the task
of meeting every requirement.
The speaker said that the admiralty
must prejmre to meet new and novel
dangers by novel expedients. It was the
unexpected that nniHt be guarded rjnmt
he said.
"The submarine, menace," he said,
"may, present new and grave dangers
for which the admiralty must be pre
pared with maximum efficiency. The
great remedy against Zeppelins is to de
stroy them in their sheds."
SEEK RAIDER IN PACIFIC.
German Ship Is Supposed To Be in That
Ocean.
Honolulu, March 8. The Australian
battle cruiser Australia, and the Austra
lian cruiser Sydney, with probably the
Japanese cruisers Chitose and Tokiwa,
are searching the Pacific for a German
commerce raider, according to reports
from officers of the liritinh steamer Nia
gara made public yesterday.
Previous rumors to this effect were
current among the Niagara's passenger
when she arrived here March 2. The
raider, it was said, was sighted in the
Straits of Magellan.
CANADIANS THOUGHT
GERMANS NEAR
When Great Explosion Started Fire in
Big Plant at Niagara Falls, N. Y.
One Man Was Killed.
Niagara Falls, N. Y., March. 8. Fire
Which followed an explosion in the chlo
rate department of the Niagara Electro-
'hemieal company to-day threatened the
complete destruction of the plant. Sev
eral explosions and resultant fires killed
one and caused a loss of $150,000.
The explosion to-day was heard in Can
ada, causing hasty mobilization of the
militia guarding the frontier. Hie lire
men were helpless to cope with the
preadmg blaze, as the water mixing
ith the chemicals onlv added fuel to
the flumes. Dr. Hector R. Cravath, man
ager of the company, issued a formal
statement to-uav, declaring that the
plant was bombed. He was making an
inspection of the plant when to-day t ex
plosion occurred.
Three weeks ago one of the walls of
tastner Alkali company s plant was
wrecked by an explosion and the police
subsequently found several sticks of dy
namite with fuses attached in other
parts of the building. Both firms make
bleaching powders. At that time it was
said that the electro-chemical companies
were making a high explosive from by
products, which was being sold in Eu
rope, but this was subsequently denied
INTERPRETS
GERMAN ACT
Following Action of House
in Backing Up President
Wilson The German Am
bassador Presents a Long
Memorandum from Berlin
Government
GIVING IN DETAIL
THE CAUSE OF MOVE
House Went on Record with
Senate by Laying on the
Table the McLemore Reso
lution to Warn Americans
off Armed Ships of Bel
ligerents ' '
ing for Verdun, failed last night in their
driving attacks on the French lines. The ky officials of the Castner company.
renewal of the great battle, however, is The first explosion last night, the police
i
being momentarily awaited, persistent
activity of heavy artillery indicating
that the time for this cannot be far
distant.
Attention is being drawn to the opera
tions of the Russians along the Black sea
coast in the Armenian advance, this re
gion enabling the central Russian army,
well inland, to keep up its onward march
from Erzemm.. According to a current
official statement from Constantinople,
the British army under Gen. Aylmer, on
the way to the relief of Gen. Townshend
at Kut-El-Amara, has been making re
newed efforts to advance. It is declared,
however, that all the attempts have
failed.
AMERICAN FREED
BY GERMANY
believe, also was caused by the letting
go of a large charge of dynamite.
The detonation was heard five miles
away and one of the walls apparently
was wrecked before the fire got well un
der way. A general alarm was sounded,
but all the fire fighting force of the city
failed to check the flames. The firemen
were in constant danger from 'ying
Washington, D. C, March 8. Count
Von Bernstorff, the German ambassador,
to-day at the instruction of his govern
ment handed to Secretary of State Lans
ing a long memorandum explaining m
detail the German position in regard to
armed merchant ships and the causes
leading up to the decision of the central
European powers to torpedo without
warning all armed merchantmen of their
enemies.
Secretary Lansing and Ambassador
Von Bernstorff declined to divulge the
contents. It is understood, however, to
consist of the allegation that Great Brit
ain had taken advantage of the conten
tion of the United States that Americans
must be safe on defensively armed mer
chantmen to have these ships act offen
sively toward enemy submarines.
The German government, it is under
stood, concedes Chat as the submarines
are new engines of warfare international
Representatives Frank L. Greene
and Porter H. Hale of -Vermont
voted with the Wilaon administra
tion in tabling the Mclemore resolution.
ly broad and complete to guarantee that
the new mtbmarlno campaign, which be
pan on March 1, and In whii-h notice has
been given that all ships carrying guns
will be sunk without warning, will not
endanger Americans traveling the seas
on merchant vessels. -
BRYAN'S COMMENT.
Ia That There Wat Little Significance in
Vote of House.
Columbus, O., March 8. Commenting
upon yesterday a vota TTi Congress, lor
mer Secretary of State Bryan, who de
livered a lecture her last night, said:
"The question waa presented In such
a way that there is littlo significance in
the vote. It does not represent the senti
ment of Congress as to the wisdom of
Americans traveling upon belligerent
merchantmen. Had tins question been
presented and the. opinion of Congress
asked upon it, there is no doubt the ma
jority of both houses would have ex
pressed themselves in favor of preventing
Americans traveling lnti danger zones on
belligerent ships. If this action of Con
gress helps the president to reach a
peaceful settlement of the controversy.
everybody will be happy."
NATIVE OF MARSHFIELD.
Utt- , ,,.., ,;, .,,! .!. I-' 1 v -iiu cerium
""1 Mrs. Hollister's death occurred in Octo-
Horace N. Hollister Died at Home of
Daughter, Mrs, W. J. Clapp.
Horace H. Hollister, A veteran of the
Civil war, passed awav at the home of
his daughter, Mrs. W. J. Clapp, 135
Washington street, this morning at 5:35
o'clock. Death coming unexpectedly, al
though Mr. Hollister had been in indif
ferent health for some years, was due to
heart failure. Mr. Hollister was able to
be about the house last evening, retired
in his usual good spirits, and apparei.t
ly slept well until 4 o'clock. Members
of, the family were awakened when 4ie
was taken ill and a phvsician was sum
moned, but from the first it was seen
that the end was near.
The deceased is survived by three
daughters, Mrs. Clapp, with whom he
had resided for the past 10 vears, Mrs
Susan H. Duke oL Marshfield and Mrs.
R. J. Perry of Wells River, and one son
Dwight H. Hollister of Plainfleld. He
was born in Marshfield May 23, 1S37
the son of Horace Hollister and Ruth
Putnam Rich Hollister. Mr. Hollister
was the youngest of four sons and a
daughter born to the couple and all of
them survived the age of 75. His mar
riage to Almira I Carpenter took place
in I afoot March 15, 1868, the -ceremony
NEW MAYOR
TAKES OATH
And Robert Gordon's Ad
ministration Got Under
Way To-day
COMMITTEES NAMED
AT SPECIAL MEETING
E. C. Glysson Elected Presi
dent of Aldermanic
Board
provision for their vine, but is willing
to operate its submarines in accordance
with international law prevailing prior
to the war, providing Great Britain does
not violate the same law.
HOUSE ALSO VOTED
TO BACK WILSON
Seven Hours of Turbulent Debate Re
suited in Overwhelming Defeat of
the McLemore Resolution.
Washington, D. C, March 8. President
debris for . the first half hour, during ; Wilson yesterday completed and decisive-
which time the minor explosions oc-i'.v won 111s long ngnt 10 compel congress
curred frequently. The Alkali company to acknowledge that it stands behind him
employed 800 men. m t'"! submarine negotiations with Ger
many.
To the rallying cries of "Stand by the
president" and "Is it Lansing and Wil
son or 'Von Jiernstorff and the kaiser t'"
a big Democratic majority and nearly
100 YEARS OLD,
HOLDS RECEPTION
Mrs. Matilda Doane pf Bakersfield is in
Comfortable Health Despite Her
Advanced Years.
Bakersfield, March 8. Mrs. Matilda
(Johnson) Doane celebrated the 100th
ber, 1888.
When gathering clouds of Civil war
broke in 1861. Mr. ituliMer enlisted as
a volunteer in Company F of the sixth
ermont regiment. An aeeident at the
front deprived faint of the use of three of
Ins fingers and he was honorably fits
charged from active service. Thereafter
he was engaged for a recruiting officer
for some time and latterly during the
four vears war between the states he
was connected with the army hospital in
Burlington. Experience gained in the
trying years of the war awakened in lum
a deep interest in the care of the sick
and for many years afterward he gave
his entire time to nursing. In middle
life he was a farmer, carrying on the
ancestral Hollister farm on Hollister hill
in Marshfield. For nearly a half -century
he lived on the farm of hk fathers
until he came to Barre to reside in 1006.
In the early '00s Mr. Hollister affiliat
ed with Aurora lodge, No. .22, F. and A.
M., in Mont.pelier ami he was also a
charter member of Wyoming lodge, Xo.
SO, m Plainfleld. In point of years of
Eugene Smith of Springfield, Mass., Has
Been Held a Prisoner for
Six Months.
Rotterdam, via London, March 8. Eu
gene Smith of Springfield, Mass, who
against the movement to warn Amen
cans off the armed merchant ships of the
European belligerents.
The celebrated McLemore resolution,
around which the anti-administration
forces centered their fight, was tabled,
anniversary of her birth to-day at the 'in other words, killed, just as was the
home of her only surviving son, John Jre resolution for a similar purpose in
Doane. An informal reception was held, the Senate last week
half the Renublicans in the House three
times rolled up overwhelming votes : affiliation he is believed to have been the
From the very outset of the fight yes
terday, the president's supporters, with
out regard to party swept over the op-
at her home and light refreshments were
served.
Mrs. Doane was born in Rockincham.
She was the fifth child of Joshua and position
Hannah (Ksta brook) Johnson, and came On the first vote, which was a parlia-
has been a prisoner of fiermany for six of a long lived family, llcr father" lived mentary proposition to prevent opening
months, has arrived here, together with . " th ae f ?4 " a,,d ' mother the McLemore resolution to amendment
,83. Her father's family consisted of six and unlimited debate, the administration
seven lintisli subjects, from Kunieoen, jc)liId JoIin wl )iv j to 88 foreea oarrjoti the dav 256 to 100. On
old; William, 70; Mrs. I.ucretia Alboe, that 102 Democrats, 03 Republicans and
80: Mrs. Betsey Graves. 75: and Miss one l'rogressive voted to su
Milly Johnson. 70, all of whom resided mistration. Twenty-one De
Republicans, nve i'rogressi
oldest Mason in this locality. Until the
last he retained an active interest in the
welfare of the fraternity.
Funeral services will be held at the
home of Mr. and Mrs. W. J. Clapp Sat
urday afternoon at 12:30 o'clock. Rev.
J, B. Reardon, pastor of the Universalist
church, will be the officiating clergyman
and the remains will be taken to Marsh
field for interment in the Hollister fam
ily cemetery.
Council and aldermanic meetings at
city hall this morning served to break
the ice for the new municipal adminia
tration, gave the incoming mayor, Robert
Gordon, an opportunity to get the in
dorsement of the board ot aldermen on
his committee appointments and paved
the way for what promise to be a pro
gressive year in city atfairs. Alderman
C. Glysson was elected president of
he aldermanic board with Alderman A.
K. Bruce vice-president. Several shifts
in the committee appointments are noted.
The indorsement wag unanimous. A spe
cial meeting of the board of aldermen
will be held Friday evening, when it is
possible that additional appointments
will be announced by the mayor.
Mayor fJordon took the oath of ofliee
laat evening and the three aldermen
elected yesterday, Alderman C. H. Rey
nolds, Alderman J. A. Healy and Alder
man A. E. Bruce were administered the
oath just before the council convened.
On the motion of Alderman Glysson, the
standing rules and the order of business
procedure followed last year was re
tained. On a motion made by Alderman
Bruce, the bonds required of appointivi
officers in years past were fixed for the
appointee this year, and the same bond
figures used In connection with sureties
furnished by the elective officers were re
tained on a motion made by Alderman
(Ivsson. A resolution extending the iur
isdiction of the state to the first and
second constables was adopted on Alder
man Rossi s motion. Alderman Bruce
moved that the recommendations made
by the outgoing board relative to appro
illations be adopted by the council.
W ith these formalities out of the way.
the council adjourned.
City Clerk imckay called the alder
men together and the name of Alderman
Glysson for president of the board was
placed m nomination by Alderman Shurt
leff and seconded by Alderman Healy
His confirmation was unanimous, as was
the selection of Alderman Bruce as vice
president, the latter's name being pre
sented bv Alderman Rossi and seconded
by Alderman Healy. The order of pro
cedure used by the aldermen in years
past was adopted without dissent.
Committee appointments ratified by
the aldermen are as follows, the first
named alderman being the committee
chairman in each instances .-
Charities Shurtleff, Bruce, Healy.
Cemeteries Rossi, Reynolds, Shurt
leff.
Elections Rossi, Shurtleff, Reynolds.
Finance Glysson, Healy. Reynolds.
Fire Reynolds, Bruce, Shurtleff.
HealthBruce, Glysson, Healy.
License Reynolds, Healy, Rossi.
Library Reynolds. Bruce, Shurtleff.
Lighting Rossi, Shurtleff, Bruce.
Legislative Brace. Shurtleff, Rossi.
Printing Bruce, Glysson, Shurtleff.
Property Healy, Shurtleff, Reynolds.
Police Healy, Glysson, Reynolds.
Streets Glysson, Rossi, Bruce.
Supplies Shurtleff, Reynolds, Healy.
Salaries Shurtleff, Reynolds, Rossi.
ater Healy, Shurtleff, Rossi.
PROHIBITION
WAS REJECTED
. BY HEAVY VOTE
VERMONT'S LICENSE TOWNS.
Barre
Bennington
Brunswick
Burlington
Canaan
Castleton
Colchester
Fair Haven
J7
Middlesex
Mount Tabor
Norton
Pownal
Rutland
St. Albans
Searsburg
Shelbume
Sboreham
Somerset
South Hero
Swanton
Vergennes
West Rutland
SAVING OF BABIES.
Bane Enters Into Campaign Dr. C. K.
Johnson Spoke Yesterday.
Yesterday afternoon in Howland hall,
Dr. C. K. Johnson of Burlington spoke
before the woman's club and guests on
the subject of "Infant Mortality." His
talk was one of the features incident to
the baby week campaign being conducted
by the Barre Woman a club, and was de
serving of a much larger audience than
greeted him.
Ihe death rate of children under one
year of age is a subject, that is causing
much concern to those who are in posi
tions to know its extent. The govern
ment is doing its part to better condi
tions and this call for the clubs belong
ing to the National Federation of Worn-
n's Clubs to conduct campaigns in be.
half of baby is the first appeal for as
sistance of this kind that the government
has ever made to the clubs. Thus it is
plain why the club in Barre is carrying
on this work at this time.
Dr. Johnson is an authority on chil
dren's diseases and care, and stated many
important facts, as well as giving much
of advice and counsel as to how the lit
tie ones may be kept well. The work
must be carried on mainly in an educa
tional wav.
Some of our leading merchants have
generously and in large measure aided
the club bv placing excellent exhibits
in their windows of articles beneficial and
necessary to the care of these little peo
pie. Endeavor to see theae exhibits if
possible.
On Inday evening at 8 o'clock in How.
land hall Dr. Dalton, secretary of the
state board of lien Ith, will give a Jee
ture on "Baby Hygiene." This lecture is
free and open to the public. There should
be a large attendance, not only of fa
thers and mothers but of all our citizens
These things concern the public health
conditions of our community, and the
state- provides officials who are authority
on certain topics to assist the people..
Is it not the duty of the individual to
take the opportunity to learn? Come
and hear Dr. Dalton.
Vermont Rolled Up Majority
of 13,656 Against the Law,
AH of the Counties Except
Orleans Opposing 3Ieasuro
in a Light Vote
ACCEPT PRIMARY ' W
BY SMALL MA .UTY
Twenty-Three ! ics and
-S
Towns Vot'e to License
Sale of Liquor Under Lo
cal Option Law Barre
Turned from "Dry" to
"Wet "Many of Smaller
Towns May Not Have Saloons
FRQZEN BODY FOUND.
SKETCH OF BAR RE'S MAYOR.
NOMINATION CONFIRMED.
Germany, in a detained camp for enemy
civilians. They are en route to England.
CHURCHILL MAKES DEMAND
For Fisher's Return to Head Admiralty
Administration.
London, March 8. Winston Spencer
Churchill, former first lord of the ad
miralty, sprang back into the parlia
mentary arena yesterday in a daring
speech answering First Lord of the Ad
miralty Balfour, who had just presented
the naval estimate, and declaring that
the admiralty lacked driving force and
Robert Gordon, Native of Scotland, Has
Resided in Barre 27 Years.
Eighteen years financial secretary of
Clan Gordon, Xo. 12, 0. S. C, and for
upward of a quarter-century a lathe
operator and granitecutter with his kit
never once removed from the stoneshed
where he began work when he came to
Washington. D. C. March 8. Xewton TV I Barre, Robert l.ordon, lUirre s new may
Baker's nomination as secretary of wari01-. known by his associates in the
. ,i 1 it. r i. : i r
Baker Becomes Secretary of War for
President Wilson.
Bradford J. Smith Died in Road at Cut-
tin gsville.
Cutbingsville, March 8. The frozen
body of Bradford J. Smith, 50 years old,
a farmhand, recently employed by John
Maloney here, was found yesterday
bout a quarter of a mile from his home,
ying face down in the snow beside the
road. Whether death was due to ex
posure or other causes has not been de
termined. It is probable an autopey
will be held.
Mr. Smith returned here from East
Wallingford on the 9 o'clock train and
was not seen alive after he lett the
station. He leaves a wife and six children.
SMALL STRIKE AT RUTLAND.
una nm rmiir t-octorriu v ho h K,nil i slum anil in me iniirnmv us h iiittn in
pport the ad- . r At Imrl, nA tlif-M-rtiifrlil V tinnHpimia rti r-
niocraia, 1 J- ,.i,,.f . .....,i t, v,; ! sitonsibilit ies. He is 43 vears old. a na
ves, one Inde- r: r.;".;?::" '..ti.l nt At-rAMr
in llolvoke, Mass., and Abraham John
.. . . . ... . i T i - IltflllMTH IL VWlVrilHV B CI
son, who died in this town at the age ot penuenanu ivepreseni.uve inuon, uie . . . , - ,e.rpUrv of came to America 30 years ago and lin
es years. .Mr. and .Mrs Johnson and "' me x.oUSe, volea aga.ns, ,ntwm "to,d the lnfHliU,nt 'the 'gered only three years in Boston before
fiinn v romiu'oii rn NnritifrltMii vorv artri n 1c- I - i a. a.. .at
after'the birth of their fifth child, M.i- This was the crucial vote of the fight,
tilda, now the sole survivor of her immc. 'the one point on which administration
diate family. leaders were uncertain. With victory in
Mrs. Doane lias three nieces living, ' hand they moved on to the next proposi
Mr. Gratia (Albeel Brawn, of Onslo. tion, the adoption 6f a special rule for
Iowa, and Mrs. Jane (Albeel Brown and four hours' discussion of the McLemore I
Mrs. Souhia Wriizht. of Sprincficld. and ' resolution
selection had been favorably received
mong army officers.
HAS MUCH TO LEARN.
several grand-nieces.
Her marriage to Oramill Doane took
place when she was 22 years old and they
came to this town, where Mr. Doane'J lution 276 to 142.
Again they carried the day, 271 to 13,
and then pushed their victory to a con
clusion by tabling the McLemore reso-
i- Mumiiaitj in i u.i.iu irn c aim . ... ... ...... .. ... . ..... ....... ..
st be revitalized before it was too late f"'eT ''vei'' the trip by t. ain. In seven hours of tense turbulent ses
bv bringing back Lord Fisher, the former I A mty acre tract ot land was given by;.on ... me .un..mH,r.i.un oppon
' l.-.i t,..J Ik. .i.;u.. 'Mr. and Mrs. Doane to his son. Oramill. ents charged that the president was con
administration' """l m daughtor-in law was given a j tending for a doubtful legal right and
(ireat interest attaches to Colonel CO- They cleared the land, which is sit-1 wss shifting the responsibility of diplo
(urchiir. r.-aptearan.-o after a period of jted in the east part of the town near 'malic negotiation, to Congress, the House
11 . . - ' . I . .1.1 1 . . 1 . . 1 1 . a i . i. .....4 t . n . . 1 a n I f -, , n , I . ........ bah
thcreon B log house and barn. Isational congressional spectacle of a de-
for
Secretary of War Baker Leaves
Washington to Take Oath.
Cleveland, March 8. His nomination
confirmed by the Senate last night, for
mer Mayor Xewton I). Baker left for
Washington to-day to take the oath of
nt ses. 0(rlce as gperetary of war. To his friends,
oppon-, Raker said jokingly just before leaving:
"I shall have a great deal to learn. hy,
as a boy, I never even played with tin
stddiers.'
silence while serving with the army aitd
while the navsl policy he had inaugurat
ed at the opening of the war was under
going considerable change.
Mr. Balfour had just concluded an opti
mistic statement of the naval outlook
which strongly appealed to the patriotic
cade, proltably unequalled since the eve
of the declaration of war on Spain.
f President Wilson, calm and confident.
heard the early results of the voting in
DIED IN CALIFORNIA.
Four children were born t them, Ora-.
mill Wesley. I'h.rhe Matilda, John Wil
jliam and Edward Leonard.
At the outbreak of the rebellion. Mis.
i Ik.anes son. Oramill Wesley, enlisted in the cabinet room at the White House!
sentiments of the House of Commons, so the 21 ermont regiment. Smith's divis- j with some ol tne cabinet grouped about
that Colonel Churchill's criticisms were j ion. and died at Fredericksburg, Va, IV- ( him. He told them he was much gTati-
at first coldly received. Hut he gradually : centner ;.. j -irs. iK.anes misoana ; ei mi me ,un , v,nj:ir.
rot In-red attention and annlause. until he "enlisted later in Co. E, 7th Vermont vol- i Released from the bonds of emharrsM-
rlosl amid a scene of much enthusiasm.
He referred to hi remarks as "a jar
ring note and warning." Before he re
turned front the front, he had received in
formation, which waa not entirely satis
factory, concerning the propp-M of naval
construction. Means hile. there was im
penetrable mystery over the German pro
gram. "That i a grave fact," said. Colonel
unteers, and died at Baton Rouge, La. He ment forced on him by the dienions in
can buried in the military cemetery with Congress, whieh have been represented
military honor, a salute of 24 puna be-'in foreign capital as indicating that be
ing fired over bis grate. The daughter, ' was making bis demands on tiermany in
Phrbe, died when she vtaa 20 years old. direct opposition to the sentiment of
and tl n, Edward, at the ie of 12 the elected representatives of the peo
reara. Mr. IVne ha, made her home pie, Itesi.lent Yi !. now stand re
with the son, John, who new resides in pared t go on with the submarine ne-
the viHufre. gotiatwn with the central powers.
J. E. Cox Body To Be Brought to Wells
River.
Wells River, ilarrh 8. A telegram
from Cliino, Cal.. announcing the sudden
death of J. E. Coi, has been received bv
relatives here. The body will be brought
here for burial, accompanied by his
daughter.
Mrs. Isne is in comfortable health. I The r,ct step rrotmMy w iil I an an
Churchill, "for. while we know nothing j She can dress herself and i alsmt fc,er t trmny', lt prral to set
vet, we msv be sure t!mt sometl inr is hoe. H, r memoir is remtkt!T g--t'tle the Lus.tatiia ras. in wlnh the Init
fmng on there. 1 hat the .,rmn navy. The hi-t -ry herewith reerdel waa Iur- l Mates prohai.iy in ak ir su. n iur
luJt cj cr the kaisers greatest efforts, sutbea lj htt.
FAVOR FREE BRIDGE.
Newbury Citiirns Vote to Co-operate
with Haverhill, N. H.
Newbury, March S. ..tr brief de
bate yesterday this town at its annual
meeting voted unanimously in favor of
nthorif mif it, select men to contract
with the selectmen of Haverhill. X. H.
to build a tree bri-ige aerot the Cnn-tiextK-iit
river between Weils River, Vt
thT aurtK-e as it considers suJ.ect- aad Wrodtville, ... LL
he found out that Barre offered more
opportunities for a man of his voeation.
He came to this city in 1SS0 and, having
learned the granitecutter's trade, began
work in the plant of McDonald A. Buch
an in the south end. There he has re
mained, even though the founders of the
business have passed away. When the
plant pased into the bands of E. C.
(ilysson, Mr. Gordon's services were re
tained. In Clan Gordon he has been an active
figure for a long time. The fact that he
iias been returned each year to an office
that is admittedly exacting is evidence
of bis capabilities. Mavor Gordon's
other fraternal affiliation has to do with
Masonry. His interest in the Socialist
party began a number of years ago and
lie has been the party candidate for
mayor several time.
The mayor has five children. Douglas
Gordon, the only son. is employed in the
works of the General Electric company
in Lynn. Maas. Miss Mary Gordon is a
teacher in the schools of Danville and
Misses Jean, Georgia and Helen Gordon
are students in Spatilding high school.
Mayor Gordon's first wife, to whom be
wa, married in 1S8.1. died some years
later. He was married to his present
wife in I!H1. The mayor's address is
122 Orange street.
Railroad Workers Want Less Hours and
More Pay.
Rutland, March 8. Over 50 Italians, in
cluding the full force of freight handlers
in the local depot and laborers in the
yard, went on strike yesterday for a
nine-hour day and an advance in pay.
Shipments in the freighthouse were bad
ly delayed for a few houre, but four
American workmen were secured at noon.
The strike is partly in sympathy with
the section men, who have been out 10
days. The strikers average to receive
Jl.fi.t a day. A few work 12 hours at 13
cents an hour.
Vermont Business Trouble.
Rutland. March E. L. Allen, a
Prijbton farmer, bat filed a petition in
bank nipt with Clerk F. S. PUtt of the
I'nited Mates) court. His liabilities ari
1S.42.7 and be has asts. of whK-a
f533 i eiemrt.
AGAIN ARRESTED.
M. Hirsh Was Awaiting Trial on First
Charge.
Brtt leboro, Ma'rch 8. M. Hirsh, who
was arrested in Bellows Falls 10 days
ago on charge of promoting a lottery by
soliciting members for a furniture club
and who is to lie tried there, waj ar
retted in BrattleNiru yesterday after
noon on a similar charge. He was Bl
under $20 bail here.
He was soliciting memlers for a club
here and collecting dues.
Vermont voted overwhelmingly against
state-wide prohibition and accepted the
direct primary law by a smaller majority
at the referendum held throughout the
state yesterday. Thirteen of the 14
counties went strongly against prohibi-'
tion and rolled up a majority of 13,656
against the law which was to go into ef
fect May 1, 1916, in case of a favorable
vote, and on May 1, 1927, if the vote
should be unfavorable yesterday. At the
same time, 23 cities and towns, voting
under the local option law, decided to li
cense liquor selling.
All the larger cities voted in favor of
license, Barre joining Burlington and
Rutland in that designation after many
years in the "dry" column. St. Albans,"
Bennington, Colchester and Swanton are
the other large communities which voted
for license. Most of the others of the 23
are small towns and in many of them
licenses will not be granted, it is ex
pected, in spite of the "yes" vote. Rut
land county leads with five license towns,
Rutland, West Rutland, Castleton, Fair
Haven and Mount Tabor. Bennington,
Chittenden and Essex counties each have
three, as follows: Bennington, Pownal
and Searsburg, Burlington, Colchester
and Shelburne, Brunswick, Canaan and
Norton. In Washington county, Middle
sex joins with Bane; in Franklin county
Swanton is with St. Albans and in Addi
son county Shoreham and Vershire voted
alike. Jay in Orleans, Somerset in Wind
ham and South Hero in Grand Isle com
plete the list of license towns, and it
would not be surprising if . none of the
three has a licensed saloon. -
Ten counties returned majorities in
favor of the direct primary law, with the
other four giving small majorities
against. Addison, Bennington, Caledo
nia, Chittenden, Franklin, Grand Isle, La
moille, Orleans, Washington and Windsor
were for the law and Essex, Orange,
Rutland and Windham were against it.
The total vote cast yesterday was sev
eral thousand short of the vote cast in
the 1903 referendum, when Vermont ac
cepted the local option liquor law after
half a centuiy of prohibiton. The rea
son was perhaps to be found in the fact
that a March blizzard raged during the
g.-eater part of the voting hours, thus
keeping many from going to the polls.
HOW THEY VIEW
VERMONT VERDICT
Rev. Clifford H. Smith of Bur
lington. suM-rintendent of the Anti-Saloon
league, said:
"It was a great surprise. We
realized that the small towns did
not wake up as wss exported. The
result was not sicTiiihant tior will
it have any bearing on the move
ment for national prohibition.'
Raymond Trainor, secretary of
the Vermont Ixal Option h-ngue,
aid:
"The campaign ha, been one of
education. All Vermit should
fee! gra4ihd tht the ffht h.i
ben " l'n te-1 in a elen. o-n
manner."
Addison.
Prohibition. Primary.
Yes. No. Yes. ISn.
Adiliron 62 8-
Ilridiwrt 7 I1 X4 65
Bristol 122 MS 22S ill
Cornwall 2
Ferri.bura 12 105 12
Goahen 10 24 27
Granville 1 S IS
Hancork 17 25 L'S 14
l.nreMer IS 8i 21 22
Lincoln 6 SO S7 M
Middlehury 2l' 2v4 Sr.S J3il
Miinkton 39 7 ITS H:t
New Haven 4S 7 4 21
(lr ell M I'm S9 S7
I'anion 2-t a 27 m
Rij.ton 8. It 3
Salisbury 49 77 71 7:1
Shoreham .St 12 M
StarkKboro 2 VS 61
V era-en iw 112 23 2l'4 112
Waltham 1 15 19 IA
Wevbridne 4S :
Whiting is S:i 7 IH
Totals 1.1 2.1CJ l."7S
Bennington.
Arl:r.rVi ..
PenninKton
tVirsrt .
GlaMerl-ory
l-an-tw-rme
MalM-besler
f'eru
ro-r.l . . . .
Kni-bo . .
K il- -1
Sunilvate . .
I Sl-af-'f-i'-y .
' Man-f.w-d ..
' --t-H- j.ed
)iphl ...
Totals
Prohibit ;'n. Primary.
Yes. Nn. Ye.
4 17 72 l.i
4H 1.21 1.140 44
I S 142 a I 1"
4 It
; -;i i; -.i
S- 171 i
17
; !' :. 1.2
4! "I it .8
! ' i
1J i-s r?
! S l
l'-i l" i I
:h u t
11
i.- ,i i rr
12 I 14 Z
V.s i-.i" l'2 1.441
(Ctifsf inned on ionrth r"-l
