VOLUME3 XXXI. LAURENS, SOUT~H CAROLINA, WEDNESDAY, MARCH 8, 1916. NM~R3
COOP[R AND ST K[Y
HOLDING THE STAG[
Political Interest Centers
Around Them
THEIR DECISION
IS BEING AWAITED
Widespread and Increasing Demand
Throughout the State for A boisliing
the County to County Campaign.
County Conventions to be Sounded
on It.
Columbia, March 4.-Although there
have been no new developments dur
ing the week just closed in the sur
face view of politics still the jockeying
for position among the politicians con
tinues unabated and behind the
screen which effectively shuts out the
public gaze the maneuvering has been
very much in evidence all week. Some
things play crop out within the next
few (fays will have a decided bearing
on the whole situdtion.
Those close in the confidence of
Gover:er anning have not seen fit
to make public any comment on the
various announcements and near an
nouncements of candidates, both ac
tive and prospective, who will contest
with the governor for the nomina
tion at the hands of the Democrats in
the cowing primaries for the position
of Chief Magistrate. That. the friends
of the governor are keeping ia !lose
touch with , the situation and are
watching closely every move on the
political ches; board is known but
they ai e not. talking for puoleath.n.
They are evidently of the opinion
that watchful waiting is the best poli
cy which can be pursued for the
present for they are known to feel
that it is still too far away from the
' ,,campaign for the different elements
and issues to be clarified. That there
will be much shifting and changing
in their opinion between now and the
opening of the campaign.
While Governor Manning has not
formally announced his candidacy for
reelection it is known that he will
run. Several up-State papers this last
week said friends of the governor
had received letters saying he was in
the race for reelection.
Watching Cooper.
The public attention is centered
right at present on what Solicitor R.
A. Cooper, of Laurens, and Mr. W. A.
Stuckey of T,hopville, will do. That
both are being urged to enter the
race for Governor is known. The
attitude of Solieitor Cooper and M.
Stuckey will have a most important
bearing on the outcome of the cam
paign in the opinion of well posted
and impartial political observers.
Foriner Governor Cole L. Blease
has formaly announced that he will
seek election to the governorship and
his friends are maki ng an active cam
paignu for hiim.
Th'lere is a w Idespread andl Inc rea
lng demand throughout the State for
the D emocaientI State conivent lon to
abolishl thle county to counlt y ennivass
of thle candidates. The sentimieint for'
the doing a way ot thIis archliIue, met
0(d ofi maimpaigling Is oni the iincs
for imipart ial and unbliased obiserve rs
dleclarie thaiit thlis polItical circus does5
thle State a great deal oif ha rm andl no
goodi at. all. They declare that withl
out It factional ismt wouldl die andi
(andlidates would have to discuss is
lIues justeadl of one anotper as it al
most, Imperative unider the county to
county canvass to get any attentIon.
When the democratIc clubs meet in
April to elect delegates to the county
convetntions this mater will Come upi
ftnd efforts wilhlibe imadle to send( up
instructed idelegations to knock out
the county to county canvass It 15
said.
John11 TI. D~uncan has again an
uiounced lis candidacy for governor.
Mir. D unean declares that thle lieolle
arie t Iired of thle factionialismi anid arie
ready for a iiew deal.
Antothier- (andidate.
J1. 3. D~esChiamps of Coluimbia has
also aiiuineed is caindlidney for iov
eriior on the deimocrat I tIcket, i~e
is aii autthor andi lecturer and is niak
ing an extenisive newsaper advert is
ing camp~aigin of his platfoirm on whleh
he will ask the dlemocrats of the
state to nominate him.
DemocrLts will cease their differ
onces this week to ane what the Re
('ONFERIENCE AT HKAIDMONY.
Methodist ('hurch Near Ware Shoals
(ireatly Henefitted by Excellent
Meeting.
Through the efforts of-the pastor,
1Rev. W. A. Lamar, a lible Conference
was held at the Methodist Protestant
church at larmony near Ware Shoals.
This conference con menced on Sun
day morning, Feb. 27th, and lasted
through Tuesday night services.
Prof. M. B. Greer of Cross Anchor
high school opened the conference
with an address on "The Bible as Good
Literature". The subject was pleas
ingly handled and the characters and
stories of the Bible well portrayed.
lie was followed by Rev. Riomer Casto
of Pensacola, N, C., whose subject
was "The Waste of Young Life." As
introductory to his address he spoke
of the American people as a wasteful
people, not only life, but land, forests
and time. Ilis address was given the
closest attention by a large audience
and has been the subject of favorable
comment.
On Sunday night the first sermon
was preached by Rev. Travis Taylor,
of Ware Shoals on the subject of "The
Rock Foundation of Peter." 'Rev. Ray
Anderson- of /Laurens, then spoke on
the importance of "A Purpose in Life".
Ill spite of the extreme cold a large
audience was out, to hear these speak
ers, and was beneflted much by their
addresses.
The first speaker on Monday was
Mr. Sas(o, who gave a splendid com
pmrison bet ween "Religion and Life".
lie showed the difference between re
ligion and Christianity. Rev. .1. B.
Connely gave an excellent talk on
"Tile Command to Go", which was en
joyed very much.
Notwithstanding the sleet and snow
of Monday night a fairly large congre
gation was out to hear Rev. Sam T.
Creech of Woodruff. He is a forceful
speaker and his text and sermon on
1Romans 12:1 made a lasting impres
sion.
Three services were held Tuesday
and Tuesday night. On Tuesday morn
ing Rev. J. L. Hodges of Spartanburg
gave a splendid talk on "The Still
Small Voice," and on Tuesday night
he thrilled his audience with "Songs
of the Night." Both were splendid
sermons. Rev. .1. M. Dallas made an
excellent address on "Consecrated
Giving". lie stressed the importance
of giving the tenth. His address will
have great results, and quite a num
her of people have p'romised the tenth
as a result. of his address.
"The Old-Fashioned Iome" by Mr.
Creech was a beautiful sermon. lie
melted his audience to laughter then
to tears. Rev. A. 0. Copeland gave
a short but excellent fal1k on "Obedi
en(e'."
.\lr. Lawrence Poole of Cross Anchor
played the organ for all the services,
and Prof. 1". 1,. Fircloth of the Vaughn
Pu). 'op1n1113' conducted the singing.
Mluch of the success of the conference
is dlue These two gentlemen for the
inspiring music.
The people of the community applre
elatte Mlr. 14Lamar's efforts to give thleml
such'l a good c'oilferene,. and1( lbefore adl
Jiournling thley voted to mIlke it anniual.
Thie church(1 is Ilivened~ an th1 le peopule
feel that they are better by3 having
had l his conferen2ce((. The 11nliuen'2ce
for god is tlt inl thei en ti re ('Oil)mun2
lii uors of Tihrioughi Tri'n.
Acrordilog to the (Green viille News,
ruimors arec aftloa t in (1reenvillec to the
effec(t that the K'. & W. C. and C., N. &
L. rail roads are considlering implirov
ing the service on tile line between
(1reenville and ('olumbia 1)y putting on
a thr~oughl trainl service betweenl the
two cities, It is plrop~osedi, 50 the rumii
or goes, that tile train will leave
Greenville in the early mornling and
return from Coilubia in tile evenling
and that only the larger' towns wvill be
mnade stop~pinlg points. Thell rumior' hlas
hlad nlo conlflrmlatloll ' from otlial
sources.
To Dilg IDeep Wllis.
.\r. Gary C. Watts, tile d(eep we'll
diflg'er~ of Mllunile, has been award
0(1 a contract 1by tihe Laurens C'ot ton
.\ills to (1r111 neveral dlep) wvells 02n
thme mill premilses iln tis (11ty.
ilublican wllS h (1o regardling a state
ticket. Thie reubilic anl stalt e (oil
ventloll mieets in Columbia on Ties
day' to elect dlelegaltes to tile lntilonal
('onvenition in Chicago and to dleele
whlether' or nlot to put a state ticket
in the field to opplose the dlemocrats,
it is not likely that any state ticket
will hn- nominated by them.
INCORPORATION P1
City Democratic Club to
to Provide for Primary
posed New City Gover
Out.
Pursuant to a notice by it. E. lBabb,
president of the City Democratic club
found in another column of this pa
per, a meeting of members of the club
will be held in the court house Thurs
day afternoon at -1 o'clock to arrange
the preliminaries incident to the, hold
ing of a primary to nominate officers
for the proposed City of Laurens, re
incorporation of which will be voted
on at an early date.
Steps have already been taken to
comply with the law regulating elec
tions for cities desiring to be incor
porated. Wednesday morning, before
many people were aware that the city
was without a charter, census takers
were out taking a census of the city
and this was soon completed, it be
ing found, it is understood, that the
population of the city as proposed to
be re-incorporated was over 5,000. A
petition was then circulated asking
the secretary of state to order an elee
lion under the statutes providing for
ilcorporation (, cities of over 5,000
inlabitaits. It is understood that, the
ex-mayor andt the ex-aldermen were
named in the petition as comttmisslon
ers of election. No hitch is anticipat
ed in the order for the election, so
the citizens will doubtless be given
an opportunity to vote on articles of
in corporation at an early date. The
nominees in the primary, motioned
above, will be confirmed in the elec
tion for incorporation, providing
there is not an independent ticket, of
which there has been no agitation, so
far as can be learned.
Tio ('andidates.
Considerable discussion has been
held as to who is to fill the oiees
provided for under the new govern
ment. There will be the same num
ber of offices to be filled as before and
it is understood that the former mayor
C. M. Blabb, and all of the board of
aldermen will offer again for elec
tion. Others are being spoken of as
prospective candidates and still oth
ers have "t Irown their hats in the
ritg". In the race for aiayor several
naiies have been iteit tione( as possi
bsle coiltest ants with .\Mr. Iiabb, among
them being ,John A. F'ranks, .1. C. Ow
Iings, J. A. '. .loore aid possible othI
ers. in W :d 1, ('. II. Ga~sciue will be
opposed bly) .1. iD:nk \\'at a. In Ward
2 I). 1Roy SIipson has announced his
intentiol of oposiag S. It. Sexton. Al.
len liramlett is also promiinently spok-t
en of in this ward, In Ward 3 no op
position has yet developed against Al
deranttpi Ilellaums. in Ward -1 it is unat
derstooi that. linckney Stll ivan will
oppose A lderianl Switzer. In Ward
5, Alderman i ranks' ward, the atmnos
phere seittms clouded, infornation be
Iing Sear ic' ont hat side, itn Ward ii,
Alerani Adamis is still haoldintg his
on nt, buaat seviert a ar contsideinjg en
terling the irac'i. Oather aare bing cont
;ide':ed it the( various wa'rds. 'hie
atime for' hling thle pihimy wtill taiost
probblly be' delcie at the imeetiang to
bei ihld tomlorriow afternioon.
'The folloingL is thei Oiitatte which
appltie's it ('ases whrli ities oi cf overa
5,000) inhatain t a desire to he Iitcor
"Whenteve on' ie huiindraetd cit izeits of
anty piroposed city of this state con
11. S. IBLACH WELL1
Stattedl Yesterdlay thtat lie Would be it
the Race 'This Summtaer.
II. S. Ilanckwell I. lsq., the wtell
kntowna local at torney, matadot definite
anniounitcemen'it ye'sterdaty that he Ir
tends to run for' solleitior of thItis ciir
etait ini the 'amptjaignt thi'e oting sumla
imer. .\ ir. Itlackwelli ha: had the at
Ser i undheri coitsler' tat for' some( t ime,
hoFur inly come R oE a 0 nai~l dIe isioni yex
nountced their ittentiont of aunitatng ar'e
(Geo. TI. .\lagill, 108q., of Gr'eeitwood.
antd lIOWard Ti. .\toore, (of Abbih'lhle.
TI'he ciricuait inatcIludes Abhbev' ilhe, (Greent
wood, New berry aitnd t Larents couniles.
Mr.~ llackwell is a native of iDae
West, in Abbeville cotunty, and receiv
ed his college eduacatin at Erskine
college. lie taught school for two
yvar and then antered Mercor uni
DNS PROGR[SSNG
Hold Meeting Tomorrow
to Fill Offices Under Pro
nment. Candidates Corning
(aining more th;:n .3,000 inhabitants
shall desire that tite said city shall be
comle incorporated, they may present
to the secretary of state a petition for
that purpose, setting forth the name
of the proposed city, the proposed cor
porate limits and the number of inhab
itants thereof, signed by at least 100
free hold voters o said proposed city.
The Secretary of State shall then is
sue a commission to not more than
10 nor less than 5 commissioners, cit
izens of said proposed city, empower
ing them to proceed with the proper
registration of the electors within the
proposed corporate limits of the pro
posed city and to advertise an elec
tion for twenty consecutive days in
the new/papers published within the
proposed corporate limits of the pro
posed city and if there he no newspa
per published therein then to adver
ise by posting notice of such election
for twenty consecutive (lays in not less
than three public places withiin such
proposed corporate limits and to ap
point managers to condutet the same,
which election shall lie conducted as
all other municipal elections and at
which the electors shall vote on the
following questions: 1, Corporation;
2, Name; 3, Mayor and aldermen, vot
ing for one alderman from each ward
and if said proposed city be not di
vided into wards, then for six aldermen
from the proposed city at large. Man
agers of said election shall make their
sworn return of the result of said elec
tion to the said commissioners who
shall certify the same to the secretary
of state which return shall show the
number of those votinig in said clec
tion together with the number of those
voting on each of said questions. If
a majority of those voting in such
election shall vote in favor of such
proposed territory being incorporated,
then the aceretary of state snail issue
a certificate of Incorporation of said
proposed city under this article. which
certiflcate shall state the name of the
proposed city, and those receiving tle
highest number of votes for mayor and
aldermen respectively in the election
hereinbefore provided for shall be the
inyor and alderimien of said city until
their successors shall have been elect
ed as here;nafter provided for.
"Sah1 city shall be governed by a
mayor and aldermen or in case of
municipalities being divided into
wards, one abiie:man from each ward,
who shall b' and be known as the city
coineil of said city. SahIl mayor and
a lderimen shall be naliiled electors of
this state and of the county in which
said city is situated and they shall
have resided within the corporate
limits of said city at least six months
inii i ately 'plrecedli ng the day' of elec
iof. it thle city Ibe d~vided into wards,
thii fldermuian fromi each waird shall be
a1 fini ail elec'tori tI i h rofiand shll be
eleeted by the (luiflilledl ilectors lihere
of. The saidi miayir fand aldrenf
shc'11ll e eleccted cvery. t wo) years on
suhdy amitl atI such laice. in .1bI
ciya huall be desira'ted by the clv
io ine ii of said (ity3 teni dayis iuli
nioticee thlertof beling prev iously riven.
They shall hohl1( their o!iees for a hform
(If I) years and uiii iIli Phi successors
shall have been elect ed fanud tinified 1."
versity at Miacon, Ga2., whlere lie re
ceivedl his L. f. dlegree. lHe was li
Ccinsed to practice In the courts of
Gteoirgia in Many, 1906' and1( in the conurt s
of SouthI (Carollia in Sept embher otf thle
samie year. lie opienied an' oflice fo r
the iract ice of hiis piroiession in iiu
rens5 shouty 1a tfter' th~L is and establhiish
ed a relatitonshipi with the latte Cot.
JIoli .\1. C'anni'on, with whom lie prafe
I i('ed for a iiumb oi ii f yefrs b5 leiniig em
plOyed in a large numbesr of cases in
the courts hiere. lie has hafd a wide
(outiliy, as w.ell as iin thie civii shte of
lie couri ts. ie hasi received a g reat
dleal o f enicouraigemiienit whe r eer lie
has muentioned(1 his (anidalilcy and ex:
peels to come otut. on to ) in the ('on
test.
Ilon1. II. A. Cooper, thle lpresent so
licitor', has miadle 110 ainnoun~cemen('t as
to his pilans, as lie still has uder
consideration the adlvisability (of run
nling tor governor,
P'ICKS NEWT'N Ii. BA(EIR
'FOlR NE('ItET'l't Y OF W. ilt
('resident. Will hnd In Former Clev~e
land 3laiyor's Nanice Today to Sue
eed Garrison.
Washington. .\ardi G.--Newton I).
IBaker, former lmayor of Cleveland.
has beent selected by P'resident Wil
son for sevretary of war. His noini
nation will go to tle senate tolinor
row, a1,d4 admlinistratton lenders ex
peet (liik confirmnation so the( new
secretary ciay take active charge of
the war depart ment's plans for army
increases and reorganization.
Mr. laker is a lawyer, and as a
leader among Ohio Democrats has
been. a warns sutpporter of the \'ilsoi
policies since the pre-convention
campaign in 1912. lie has been a
close personal friend of 'Mr. Wilson
since the later was his instructor
years ago at .Johns 1iopkins univer
sity and was offered the post of see
I retary of the interior in tihe Wilson
cabinet.
lie is understood to be in thorough
aceor-i with the president on the pre
paredness programme and foreign
c(liest ions.
All offer of the war secretaryship
Was made to lr. lBaker by telegraph
several (days ago after tle president
had spent more than three weeks
carefully going over a long list ot
those suggested to succeed Secretary
Garrison. l r. laker accepted and
upon being notilied today that he
wi oluld be nomninated at once, tele
gaiplled that he would lie in Wash
in on Thursday.
Mr. Ilaker is -1-I years of age. lie
was born in Martinsburg, W. Va., and
at the age of 25 was appointed prl
vate secretary to Postmaster Gen
eral Wilson in President. Cleveland's
cabinet. In 1897 he began the prac
tice of law at Martinsburg. lie later
moved to Cleveland, where he be
came city solicitor in 1902. He held
this ollce for 10 years until his elec
tion as mayor. In 191-1 lie was re
elected mayor for a two year terin.
Mr. Blaker has received degrees at
.ohns I0lopkins and Washington and
Lee universities.
FIor years MIr. IBaker has been
closely identified with the reform
ioveient in Cleveland. Whell Mayor
Tom .lohnson (lied Mr. Baker took up
the fight for lower street. car fares
and finally brought about an adjust
Inent of street railway franchises In
Cleveland.
.\t the tile of the llaltiiore con
vention Mir. IBaker was prominently
111(11 tie for the vice iresideney be
(;ause of the light he made for lr. 'il
Son.
\r. Baker has been known for
yer11s as a leader of the Ohio har a nid
is highly regarded by the president
as a lawyer. NIr. Wilson wanted the
place illed by a lawyer because of'.
legal questions constantly arising in
the adi nistration of the war depart
]ruiest, the Philippines, the Panama
canal and Puerto IRico.
S.\Li ' .\ST .l IONI).iY.
Thug Fair: ('od was Pre'(si!I' e
'Vhi ('. Inday wasi (ale'day an a: 'o
fily ('a; owd was prd i~est'Ther
were Not Iah-iib t~ihe' lhiff$12. to
ale .ludre and vne ipridaete. t~'e
he l ieinan plac loQutarry lentlied
ftrol Pliet wasel sol ty thiie 11lerk'
to .\lr. copny Niore f1or $t.(.30.n
ine Ilie set teant0'te ife statr
an r e lcm an vgi llle. it 1-re1 ar1
nell ank ste e, p1ac aotree In il(ets
toan tockpand o $:1 hars0.00. t t
ins toe selemenit.o tile esltaes
W. .\ tt, I. lliyson. ftepo et d
rlens llanktitt stock t10 shai're t ofPlie
tof lilank N stoc andl 20 sharele t \V lt
.lials stokwt ere solad tor.'N the amhis
taor dat. .lrsn
Th 1el Adver tiry av iwo moeian
ofb e i ff. l .\at . 'lock . K1Iellettli of
liillownvite ad .\r oie. o a1.lirs
iLeeinro atl bekrygTaern
BOLD S[A RAIDER
R[ACH[S HOM[ PORT
German Commerce Raider
Safe With Large Booty
ELUDED CAPTURE
BY BRITISHERS
l'erforni4d One of tilie Most S pet eu
Iar Feat.s of the Walr. by iteaching
(Grent (erman lise In the North
Sea n hieh nas ('losely Patrolled by
Brlitainl's Fleet.
Berlin, Marc 5 (via London).*-Ti'''
Gernan commerce raider .\loewe has
returned to a Germuan port with 199
prisoners and 1,000,000 marks in gold
bars, according to an ofilcial an
nounceenit today by the naval gen
eral staff. The statemet follows:
"The naval general staff states that
ll. M. S. \loewe, coinmander Capt.
Hourgrave Count von I)ohna-Scholdlen,
after a successful eunruise lasting sev
eral Inonth s, arrived today at some
honie port with four British oflicers,
29 llritish marines and sailors, 16
Wien of crews of etelly steatliers,
alntong them 11)3 lIndlians, as prisoners
and 1,04;0,1100 anark'Is in gold bars.
"The vessel caplurcd the folo. ing
eneny steaners, the grieat Imtart of
whicl vere sunk and a sinal pla of
which were sent as prizes to c;:i.ral
port1s:
"The llritish steanmers Corlbrige,
:1,687 tolls; Au thor, 3,-14 tons '1' r alcr,
3,608 tons; Ariadne, 3,035 tons; I)ro
monhy, :1,627 tons; Farringford, :1,14i
tons; Clan Mae'l'avish, 5,816 tons; Ap
pam, 7,781 tons; \Vestburn, 3,300 tons;
Horace, 3,335 tons; Flamenco, 1,621
tons; Saxon Prince, 3,471 tons.
"The British sailing vessel Edin
burgh, 1,473; the French steamer Ma
ront, :1,109 tons.
"The Belgian steamer Ilu xem hou rgh,
-1,322 tons.
"At several points on enemy coast
the .\loewe also laid out mines to
wlicl, aniong othors, the battleship
King Eldward VII fell victim."
The Moewe's capture of two of the
15 vessels listed by the German ad
Inialtily h1:s not been reported pre
viously. They are the Saxon Prince
and (lie \laroni, both engaged in the
trans-Atlantic service.
The Saxon l'rince, 3,171 ions gtrss,
:52 Ieet long and owne i by tlle I'rince
line of Ner aeIstl, Ing., w:s hl !t: in
Suiierland in 1599. She was last re
pIorled a:. :;ailiic ftrom Norfolk i'eh
ri:ary 12 for ,Manchester.
Tie \laroni sailed I-it'ebruairv 19 f'otn
I ordeaux for Ncw York. Sh was
owntil by the Cenpitagtnie (ieneral
Trans-Ai lantiltue of H lavre and was
:12 feet long and of 3.109 tons gross.
The Moe We, previously Ia do fa
inouts by her extoits. has performed
one of the mnost spectacular feats of
the8 wvar on the seas by reaching a
hiotm pelt ini safety. The grea~tt (;er
i ian n vatltitrt of \\'iIlhe tlmsavent is
ton the Noilth Seat. whtitt is eitrolledl
u Imips It is thrtoughl thlese wat ers
for atril byv t diffuetnt Brtiish
nits tht I thei.\loew tliust ha vi
lth:waded li-i way.
.\t leaist pail of the gold (lapltrel
by thle .\ioewe wax takeni tromt the
.\piptami. whc hput in at Newptoll News
teeaI weeks ago unde r comnuttand of
.I dc-t. IBecrg wvithl a Germnant prtize crew.
Anunoincenment wvas maide in Lonitdon
.lanuary It) that the lBritish battle.Ahlp
King Edward VII had been bilown
lip by a mIne. The pla1ce at whiIcht thle
dlisaster occurred was not r-evea led by
the rit ish admita'ty. It was~ '-aid no
lives were lost and only two men were
, lihn 31Ills Dhead.
.lihn Mills. of liitlhet fordlon. N. C.
tttil rIiecintly Ipresiditl oit Ithe Comt
tncrial Natilolil h~tink of that tilace,
dliid ytslterday at his hitome in Huith
etfordlltti alter an illii of5 seteal
mothiitIs. .\lrt. ,\lis was a colt in of
ma atrlative ofi the late .\lra rn
(oxt, oh llthelrftoln. lIe i.s sur
l ived by his widowv whlo was 'Ii.n
Norai loole, a thattehier oif IDr. ..T
Ple(, of l~aurtns rounmty. tt. lx
('arson, of this city, atI ptetrhaps itht
er fienuds of M\r. M\ills will attend
thle funeral services whiichi will t ake
place In Rut herfordlon Sun day-Spar-.
tinnhng 1-Henl.
