What to Wear
Cg==^= ' 1 '=3
And How to Wear It?On the
Woman's Page Daily
Business Men
Rely on the Real Estate and
Court News in Thc/f.-D.
G6th YEAR
VOLUME ?W?
n>:t
RICHMOND, VA., WEDNESDAY, JULY 12, 1916. ?TWELVE PAGES
r?T"':U ? FAIR
PRICE, TWO CENTS,
WHOLE FIRST LINE
OF DEFENSE TAKEN
IN BRITISH DRIVE
(iermans Are Forced From
Positions Along Front
of Eight Miles.
CONTALMAISON CAPTURED
AFTER BITTER STRUGGLE
Haig's Men Take More Than
7,500 Prisoners and
Many Guns.
TEUTONS THROWN HACK IX EAST
Rerlla Afimlt.s That Hussions Are
Rattling Way Toward
Hovel.
British Gains Cover
Front of Eight Miles
The itr11Inh unlnn In the hnltlc of
the Sommr cover r front of nearly
eljcht mllfR und Include (far entire
fierman flrat ayatrni of defetme.
Tlila advance iocludcN n number of
amall lotTim nnd village* nnd posi
tions ulilcli are connldrrrd of srent
utrntejclc Importance. 'I'hr llrltlxh
advance extended Into the (?ermun
position* for a depth of to l,ll(IO
Tarda.
At tlie name time the Krench army,
under General Foeli, linn moved up
In the Moulliern aectlon of the
Somme, until It non hold* the domi
nating hill* around Peronlie.
The llriflah lime relnkrn (ontal
nialmon, and nrc ncnlu In control of
nearly the eutlrr extent of Tronea
wood and .Maine!/ wood. There linn
heen deapernte llclillnt: In hotli of
tlieae aectorn for nexerul iIiivm past.
In the Verdun aector, the i>rnnann
hate succeeded In culniiiHr it foot
hold in the Ilaiiiloiip buttery and In
the French line In the Fumln wood
on the riiclit hnnk of the Meuae. At
other polnta the t.ermnna nrr carry
ing: out li utroni; ofl>n*l\r.
LONDON, July 11.?The capture of
the whole of the Germans' first system
of defense on a front of 11,000 yards
? nearly eight miles), after ten days
and nights of continuous fighting. is
announced in the official report from
Kritish headquarters in France. The
number of prisoners taken exceeds
,'>00. The text^reads:
"After ten days and nights of con
tinuous fighting, our troops have coin
lifted the methodical rapture of the
whole of the enemy's first systems of
? iefense on a front of 1 t.f'Oi) yards.
"The system of defense consisted of
numerous and continuous lines of fire
trenches.
"The German success in the recap
ture of Trones wood, after costly
casualties was of short duration. To-J
day wo recaptured nearly the whole
of this wood. All but the northern-'
inoft end is attain in our hands.
"Apart from the number of kuiif
hidden in houses and buried in the |
debris, we have. In the course, of these 1
operations, brought in twenty-six field!
Rims, one naval jjun. one antiaircraft.'
gun and one heavy howitzer, while the;
number of German prisoners captured '
exceeds 7.500."
I OVTAI.MAISO!* KA M.S.
AKTF.lt IIITTF.lt STItL'CGl.R j
After a prolonged and bitter strng- 1
jr!e. the British have captured the |
town of C'ontalmaison, nftrth of the j
Somm# River, and are now holding it j
Ppainst German counterattacks. The
^renter part of the Mametz woods is1
in possession of the P.ritish, who have;
ulso captured nearly the whole of the!
Trones wood.
On the eastern front the Germans;
<riniit the fighting on the Htokhod line!
i= approaching Kovcl on both sides of'
the railway, hut they claim the Rus- j
sians have been driven back near j
ilulewicze. To-day's news told of!
heavy fighting on all fronts, with the,
allies making substantial progress in ?
most places. A striking illustration
of the difference In the relative posi
tions of the allied and Teutonic forces
and of the remarkable change from
Vjhe monotonous defensive trench war
fare which characterized the allied
operations for so many weary months,
until the present summer, is found in
the number of prisoners and guns
taken. These, for the battle of the
Soinnic. amount to 22.000 prisoners and
1 r>| guns captured from the Germans,
while the official figures for the Rus
? .hi General Urussiloff's drive to July
jit arc 271.020 prisoners, 312 guns and
sr,i> machine guns.
The importance the Germans have
attached to the C'ontnlmaison position
> may be measured by the fact that they
recently sent the Prussian Guards into j
t'.e fighting at this point.
I.F.ilMA X OFFKXSIVH
nil OUGHT TO STANDSTIliI,
It is now clear that the Russian
drive in the direction of Kovcl has
brought the German offensive at Lutsk
to a standstill, and. according to the
Russian communication, the Germans
have brought up strong re-enforce
mcnts to defend the. Stokhod line, and
Kovcl. General Rrussiloff, however,
now has the impassable Plnsk marshes
covering his right flank, and is in a
position to outflank the German de
fenses of Kovel. The capture of 34.000
prisoners by the Russians in the Stok
hod and Galician battles from July 4
to July 8 seems to indicate that the
Germans have been unable to throw
(Continued on Second PagcT) ' 1
j; '
Dies in Leesburg
1IK.MIV I'AIIIPA X.
HENRY FAIRFAX DIES
; IN LEESBURG HOSPITAL
President of State Fair Association
Succumbs to Attack of
Appendicitis.
WAS SIXTY-SIX VEAKS OLD
Played Conspicuous Part in Const!*
tiitional ( on vent ion, Having Iteen
t liairnum of Coinmlttee on Finance
and Taxation of That liody.
Henry Fairfax, chairman of the com
mittee on finance and taxation in the
Constltution.il Convention ..if I SOI. char
ter member of the State Corporation
Commission and president of the Vir
ginia Slate Kalr Association, died at
the Leeshurg llo.-pital al.out JO o'clock
last night. lie was stricken with ap
pendicitis several days ago, and an
emergoin-y operation was performer! by
Drs. Oeorce Ren Johnston and Murat
\\ illis. of Richmond. lie had been in
a critical condition all 'la. yesterdav,
and bis dea I It last night was not un
expected.
Mr. Fairfax was sixty-six years of
ace. and wax one of the best-known men
in public !if<- in Virginia. Though of
a retiring disposition, seldom s^^kinif
public otlicf, he had served his dis
trict in the State Senate and was
elected to the Constitutional Conven
tion, where he readily came to the front
as ni.e ?. f tiip leaders in matters of
taxation and (inane Because of his
record In that body, he was appointed
by Governor M<>> tague one of iho char
ter members ..f th. State Corporation
< onimiss;.?!i. s.M-v:-itf with Governor
Henrx ' Stuart ami Judge Reverly T.
frump for several years, lie resigned
from the commission and was- suc
ceeded by Colonel Joseph K. Wlllard.
now ambassador to Spain.
Mr. 1-airfax succeeded ilnvernor
Stuart as president of tiio Virginia
State Fair Association.
A IIOPTS PIt oy KSSIon
ok <1X11, km;i\n
Henry Fairfax was born in Alexan
dria. Va . on May 4, 1S?0. His father!
was Colonel John \V. Fairfax, a farmer'
of I.oudoun County, and his mother:
was Mary Jane Rogers, daughter of
Colonel Hamilton Rogers. He received
his early education at a private school
In Loudoun County and during tho Civil
War was at home with his mother, his
father heme on the staff of General
Longstreet, of the Confederate army.
When not at school he did all kinds
of work on the farm. In 1 SOT he went
to the Virginia Military Institute, grad
uating four years later, and adopted
civil engineering as his profession. He
started as a chainman with an engi
neering corps in Pennsylvania, and
later worked in New Vork. New Jersey,
Colorado and Ohio. In 1S70 he took
raili oad contracts in Tennessee, and
continued contracting in Virginia and
West Virginia until 1SS7.
In the early eighties Mr. Fairfax had !
his headquarters in Roanoke. Va. In i
the Town Council of that city he ren
dered valuable service on the finance
committee. In 1SST? he bought the Oak
Hill estate, in Loudoun, which had be
longed to his father, but later had
passed out of tjie family. He went
there to live and made it one of tho
most famous homesteads in Virginia.
In 1S90, Mr. Fairfax was Induced to
enter public life. The death of llenry
Heaton left the senatorial district com- i
posed of the Counties of Fauquier and
Loudoun without representation, and 1
Mr. Fairfax accepted the seat. Fori
eleven years he represented the dis- '
trict in the State Senate. As chairman
of the Committee on Finance and Ranks
he was Influential. Jn the matter of
making improvements to the State
Capitol he was a pioneer.
I'l'AVs rito.iiiMcvr part i\
CONSTITUTION A l< CON V i:\TfO.V j
In tho Constitutional Convention of
1 r?01 -100^ he served on the Committee
oi. Taxation and Finance, becoming its
chairman on the resignation of Vlr
glnius Newton, of Richmond, and to
him is due no little or the Increased
revenue of the State under the new
Constitution, llis .services in the con
\ention had a great deal to do with
his appointment as a member of the
State Corporation Commission, a posi
tion which he held until October. 100a,
when he resigned and retired from
public life. Since then he had lived
it Oak Hill, nenr Aldie.
WASHINGTON ANI> It KTURN, S-MW
from Ktehniniiil. Second Kduuatlonnl Kx
eiirwlnti. Tickets good only on special train
leaving Shafer m\d Broad Streets Ji:30 A.
M. Saturdny. July 16. nnd returning, leuvo
Washington 8 P. M. name .date.?Adv.
DOCTORS PLEDGE
j LEVY THEIR AID
j Two Hundred Physicians Dis
cuss Means to Prevent EpU
demic of Infantile Paralysis.
TAKE SITUATION SERIOUSLY
i Resolutions Adopted Promise Co
operation With State and City
Health Departments.
Realizing that :i!i ?piflomi<: of serious
proportions mieht ?..? confronting them
| lipon the, moriow or within Hie year,
more than *00 physicians, assembled
last night in tin- auditorium of the
i Chamber of Commerce. voted by stated
: resolution to u;vc their undivided ef
fort to Dr. K c. |,i.\y, Chief Health
i Onicer, in ablinn him and the Health
j Department in pn-vntmi; an incursion
j of infantile paralysis into Richmond.
The resolution was adopted on tho
motion of In- J. Allison Hodses.
i In effect. it calls upon the parents
to co-operate with Dr. l^cvv in every
way possible and to obey his instruc
tions implicitly. It also calls upon
e\ery physician to make proper report
of every suspected rase, and the paper
requests the co-operation of the State
Board of Health so that the thrcaten
| in(j disease may be kept out of Vir
' ginia.
The resolution was adopted at a con
ference of physicians called by the
vice-president of the Richmond Acpd
etny of Medicine ami Surgery, Dr. St.
; Julien Oppenhimer. to whom the re
quest for such a conference had been
presented by Chief Health Oflicer Levy.
advisaiim: that pumuic
III-: \\ UtVKII OP DAMiER
Many physicians were called upon to
speak and to express their views as to
j tin.' situation. Alt of them deemed it
advisable that the public he properly
wattied. that mothers be informed of
Hie peril and that the physicians them
selves co-operate in .-very way possible
to eliminate the thteat In a prelimi
nary address to the profession Dr.
l.evy said that he had two objects in
mind?the first to seek the co-operation
of the physicians, and the second to
seek their views as to preventive
measures.
"The medical profession," he said, "is
our createst hope." He advised that
gatherings of young children should
be prohibited, and that every hygienic
precaution known to medical science
should be used. Anil then he urged
that every case of illness among cltil
: dren Fhould be regarded with suspicion,
i and. if there were the least, alarming
! symptom, should be reported. Though
agreeing that the situation might be
come serious. Dr. J. N". Upshur snid
that the physician should be careful |
not to say or do anything which would
create a sensation or bring panic into
the minds of th? people.
SITUATION" I A WOT
IMtOPKIl I. \ MI\lMI7.nO
Dr. McGuire New ton ?lecl; rv-d that j
it was unfortunate that the public had
become so aroused, and added that the
! important seriousness of the situation
I could not properly be minimized.
"The public oncht to he warned."
j snid r>r. Newton, "but it should also be
j told that Infantile paralysis is not the j
I most contapious of diseases, that it is
| not easily transmissible and that sec
] ond contacion is rare. " He stated that
i the tnorta is about 1" per cent of
those int'ec. <1. and that about 20 pet
cent make absolute recovery after four
yea rs.
Tn disctissing the symptoms? of th*
disease. Dr. Newton said that there is
nothing characterist ic in its first
staaes; that paralysis might be the
initial staee. 1'aralysis, he stated,
might conie upon the third day after
infection, o.- upon the twenty-first day. '
Dr. N. T Knnett. school physician of
Richmond, who had just returned from
New York, said that in the metropolis!
17.1.000 people were now being used to!
detect and prevent the disease from ;
spreading: that the playgrounds had;
been closed, and that certain quarters
of the city in which the confplaint is j
most prevalent had been quarantined.
He asked that every sanitary measure
be taken, and said that a reasonable
amount of public alarm is necessary.
tickp.it iirx it 11hcs
K A III. V SYMPTOMS,
Dr. f'.everly R. Tucker agreed with the
others that the threat of epidemic in
vasion should cause a certain amount
of public alarm. "Rut." he said, "if
we can regulate the alarm, we will do'
well." lie described the early symp- !
toms of the disease, saying that they j
arc not easily differentiated from ma
laria. measles, bronchitis, rheumatism
and other common ailments. The i
watchword of prevention, he said,
should be suspicion. In describing
cases which had come under his own
notice, he said that paralysis of tho
limbs was not often detected by nurse,
doctor or mother, and that sometimes
the infection, because of the lack of
proper detection, had gone so far that
treatment was practically futile.
"It would be foolish," ho said, "for
us not to heed the warning that has
conic to us through the newspapers.
Our children may be infected within
six months <>r within a year. We
ought to aid Dr. Devy in every respect!
that we can." In describing treatment
he had found effective. Dr. Tucker said
that frequent doses of urotropin had j
been discovered as eflicaeious. Klcctric j
treatment, he stated, should not ho |
used until all the acute symptoms had
disappeared.
TUCK Kit KIVKS IIH.H
Pit A INK TO I.KVY
lie slated that Dr. l.evy had not 1
been a day or tin hour too soon in his |
campaign of preparedness.
"If we don't have the disease In j
Richmond," he added, "it will be. a |
miracle, and that miracle will be due i
to Dr. Dcv.v."
Dr. J. Allison Hodges urged careful ?
and accurate diagnosis, backed by a
suspicion of every disease.
"Wn must look at tho situation." ho
(Continued on Thlrtl Page,)"
DEUTSCHLAND IS HELD
TO BE MERCHANT VESSEL
THIRTY-TWO MORE LUES
ARE CLAIMED RV SCOURGE
Infantile Paralysis Spreads in New
^ nrk, and I!M .New Cases
Arc Reported.
HK.AT ADDS TO HURDKXS
Despite Added Xumher of Little \ ie
liins, Federal anil City Health
Authorities Are Kncouraued Ovei
Progress in Com hating Disease.
NKW YORK. July 1! ?Inii.-ii.so heat
I to-day added to the bunions of the
health authorities in tlu-ir flght to
check tic} sjiif ;i<] of n.antib paralysis,
: which took a roll of thirty-two lives in
the twenty-four hours "'inline: at 10
o'clock il.it? morning. The iloprcj-yiiiu
temperature, i! was explained, tends
to reduce the phy-ical resistance of
i children against po.? 11 ?1contagion.
One hundred and ninety-five new
< ascs were reported to-day. The new
cases readied a new high record all
! over the city, while Brooklyn cases
numbered 1 ?">">.
The total reached l.'JTS cases to-day
! and I'To deaths.
The health department announced
that the high number of new cases
probably is due to their discovery by
members of the Home Defense League.
21.000 volunteer workers, and accumu
lation of cases between the last twen
ty-fonr hours and the twenty-four
hours preceding 10 o'clock this morn
ing.
Federal atrd city health officials took
an optimistic view ??f the situation to
night, notwithstanding the fact that
195 new cases had been reported, on
the ground that the co-operative work
of the various city departments has
resulted in preventing: the epidemic
from spreading geographically.
.it a v MoiM'Ai.rn
I'M O >1 T1 I'll <>t 11 i'i:vi:it
The i.ampaitn for cleanliness among
dwellers in the densely populated parts
?Or '.he city is having such c\cellent
results that health officials predicted
to-night the usual summer epidemic of
typhoid fever would lie diminished con
siderably.
L>r. Haven Emerson. health commis
sioner, deplored the undue alarm,
which is causing anxious parents to
confine their children indoors through
fear of contagion.
"More children's lives are lost in
any real epidemic of measles than will
bo lost in this whole, epidemic," he
said. "There is no reason why we
shotiId become panic-stricken about it.
If tlie children are kept indoors, infant
mortality i.s certain to rise from causes
other than infantile paralysis."
A conference was held this afternoon
between Federal health experts and i
officials of the Rockefeller Institute
to talk over plans for destroying the;
germ of infantile paralysis.
HUGHES TO SEE LEADERS
< iiii(1 illii*e \\ 111 (in to Nni ^ ??rk To-lJny
for Conference *?\ itli I'nrfy
Chiefs.
BR!DOi:HAMPTON', N'. V.. July 11. ? !
Charles E. Iluglus will go to New York
to-morrow morning for a series of im
portant conferences with party leaders.
The. time and place of holding the
notification ceremony, the. speech of
acceptance, the contemplated trip to
the Pacific Coast and the nominee's
ideas in general as to the campaign
will be discussed. An early meeting
with the newly appointed campaign
committee also will be arranged.
Mr. Hughes expects to see. Senator
Harding, chairman of the not location
committee, within a few days, possibly;
to-morrow, to lix definitely the plans
for the notification ceremony, tenta
tively set for July III. The ceremony;
will take place in New York.
A tint r In n* Itiirn Olltije.
ROME, July II.?The Idea. Naclonale I
states that the Austrians have burned
Cetinje. The. royal palace was <le- j
st royed.
In C'ntnp nt llrnwiiMvllle.
HROWNSVll.I.E, TEX., July 11.?The
Third Ha'.tallon. First Virginia. Regi
ment. arrived here to-night and wont
into camp with the First and Second
Ihittallons which arrived last night.
Tlio most delightful witter trip In America,
tip Oil USA P1SAKK HAY TO HAI.T1MOHK.
YORK ntVKR LINK. New nil.) palatini
Stenmnr.t. A restful and refreshing over
night trip.?Adv.
'
Supersuhmariiie Deutschlaiid, which arrived ut Baltimore after a trip across the .Atlantic.
< AI'TA IV l?.\L |, KOK.VM;
of tlic UruthcIiIiiikI.
CAMP BP 10 STANDARD,
SOTS ARMY INSPECTOR
.Major .1. C. Johnson (Jives High
I'mise to l-jnicienry ??l* Vir
ginia Militia.
i:\(.i\i:i;ks ahi-: swoiw i\
Virginia Only Southern Stale Which
Has Sont Forward Troops to Mex
ican Itoriler?Consoivo Is Mere to
I'ny Oil' Cavalry and Artillery.
After reportilie to the War Depart
ment yesterday thai Camp Stuart was
ill first-class condition, aid that the
! officers of th< Virginia Nn'tional tliiard
? had attained ;t high standard ..f efli
? ciency, Major .1. ('. Johnson. of the
I nited States Army, camp inspector.
i left last night for the militia camp at
| Macon, rjji. || jp understood that the
j Oeorgia camp is in more or less of a
i tangle.
I All signs indicate that Virginia has
:surpassed every other Southern State
j in eflicieney of personnel and manage
j ment of militia. N*o other Southern
State has sent any troops to the bor
der. and it is understood that many of
them are not ready yet. Camp Stuart
is now able to take care of itself, ac
cording to Major Johnson, ami he ac
cordingly goes where he is more
needed.
The engineer company attained some
measure t>f its t;??.?1 last night when
'it was sworn in a:- a part of the Vir
| Bin la militia. Fifty-nine men took the
loath. administered by Lieutenant
[Colonel ,lo l.i ne Stern, inspector-gen
! oral of the Virginia militia, last night
at 10:30 o'clock, and supplies will l>e
furnished by the State as soon as pos
sible. The work of recruiting the I
[ company will continue with renewed
zeal in order t<> secure the required
number for mustcriuc: into the Federal
| service.
Life at Camp Stuart has settled down
! into a. m uter of steady drill and ex
pectant waiting for marching orders
on the part of the soldiers. The offi
cers are occupied with seeing that the
routine Is carried out smoothly and in j
forwarding the work of distributing
pay.
I'AVMKXT <>!?* At f'KPTI-'.D M?:\
Payment of disqualified men has
been practically completed, and tho
beginning of payment to the accepted
troops in camp will be made to-dai*. j
?in account of the delax in l.ltutt-iiant
Colonel Consol vo's arrival, and also be
cause of incompleteness of the com
pany's rolls, the money could not he I
distribu ted yesterday.
Yesterday morning, before leaving, j
Major Johnson gave -the Clues their!
first field Inspection with full equip
ment. After the inspection he pro
nounced tho squadron to be ready for
service, ami commended it on its good
condition. Horses are now the only
unsatisfied need of the squadron.
Fifty horses, said Major f ?owles. I he ;
commander, would prove of incalcu
lable benefit to the Clues. With the
drill which would be possible with
even that meager supply, great for
ward strides could be taken. Citizens
of many States, it is understood, havo
(CoaUnuod~on Thl7d~ragcrj
TO ill-: MAUI-; TO-DAV
[ISLE* BEITS CHARGE
AGAINST CIRCUIT JUDGE
Cites Letter From Turnhull to Show
liarksilnle Wns Activc in
Cam | m Ik n.
ItE.WU) OK CMARGKS OX .IL'LV 2
Deposed Ivvaminer Sa>s Inrorinatiou
oT Attack nil llini Did Xot Iteaeh
Him Cntil Five Days Before His!
Removal From Ortice.
Taking up. point by point, tlio em
' phatic statement of Attorney Benjamin
W.itklns Heigh. of Halifax, in . which
. lie charactcrlzed as false the assertion
of James S. Kasley, deposed examiner j
of tnp Sixth Circuit, tiiat .Judge \\". R. j
j Barksdale, of Houston, was a party to]
the preparation of the charges designed
to effect his removal from ofllcc. Mr.
Kasley last night telegraphed from
Houston the following signet! state-i
. ment:
"My attention has been called to the
I statement of P. \V. heigh, published
j in The Times-Dispatch of July II, in,
I which he endeavors to disprove the1
statement contained In my published
statement of July 7. He said thej
l statement was 'absolutely false in so
j far as it stated that Judge Barksdale j
assisted me or knew or had anything]
to do with the charges I prefer red
ngaiitsi Mr. 15a s ley.'
HOT IVrciHM \TtO\
riii ,u im;i: iiahksdai.i:
"For answer to this I refer to the
letter <>f Irliy Turnhull. an attorney
prai-ticinc In Judge Barksdale's court,
'dated June 24. to Judge William R.
] Barksdale, filed as a part of the record j
'of charges with the State T:* \ Hoard. I
'This letter contains the items alleged j
j to have been omitted h\ me in Meek- i
lenburg County, and contains this con-j
j vinclng statement connecting Judge
Barksdale with the spirit, a: well as
with the letter, of the transaction:
"'In trying to get the information
you desire as to what fiduciary estates!
were omitted by the examiner ?>f rec-j
ords in .Mecklenburg County for tlio I
year 1014-1015, 1 went first to the'
fiduciary book, etc.'; also this further j
statement: 'The only way to get at
it would bo to go to see tho representa
tive, which tho commissioner should
have done, but time does not admit
of that, if l am to get this Informa
tion for you in order to he of any ser
vice.'
iti5< tint) as to si:ini:r\
i\ Fii,i.\<; tiii>: riiMn.r.s
"Mr. Heigh says that in my state
ment that the charges were secretly i
prepared and submitted to the hoard
on July 1, when the board was ex
pected to act. was false. In answer. 1 1
ciuote from the letter of Christopher
R. Harnett, of July I, as follows:
"'At a meeting of the State Tin
Hoard, held this morning, there were
tiled before the board the following
papers: flrst. letter from Mr. Benjamin
Wat kins Heigh, addressed to C. I.ee
Moore, Auditor of Public Accounts,
dated June HO. I'.lD?. copy of which I
herein inclose; second, letter from Mr.
Irby Turnhull. addressed to lion Wil
liam 15 I "a rksdalc. dated June 1. HH'i.
j copy of which I herewith inclose, third,
ia paper, not dated nor signed, but
| copies of which were lllcd by Mr. Ben-,
| jamin Watkins Heigh with lion. II. C.
Stuart, (lovernor; lion. it. K. l'rcntis. ;
chairman State Corporation Commis-;
sion. and lion. C. I.ee .Moore. Auditor
of Public Accounts, as you will note
from a statement in the letter of Mr. j
Heigh aforesaid, and .i copy of which
I hi-rein inclose."
"This letter of Mr Harnett, with tho
inclosure, was received by me on the
night <>f .lul\ I', and was the first, in
timation that I had of this procedure.
The answer which 1 made to the
charges was reduced to writing and
tiled by ine before the Tax Hoard, and
is a matter of public record
III5KI5IIS TO 1.1514?It'S
??r \Titi4iTi4- i vri:nr.vr'
"That some funds were omitted by
me I have never denied, nor did I deny j
it before the board. Tho denials that'
I did make 1 substantiated by tho i
records themselves. The sum which
Mr. Heigh names. $ll2.ono. as being the.
(Continued on Second I'age.)
IIOTKI, KIIKUKK HOOK TO-NHillT.
Dlnnor-auppcr, amnio, dune inc. to 12.
r-AUv,
EXPERTS OF NAVY
REPORT FINDINGS
ON BIG SUBMARINE
Their Thorough Examina
tion Discloses Nothing of
Warlike Character.
BRITISH AND FRENCH CLAIM
IT IS POTENTIALLY WARSHIP
State Department Expected to
Treat It as Peaceful Freighter
Owned by Belligerent.
ONLY DUTY IS WATC HFULNESS
No Structural Changes for Hostile
Purposes in Underwater Carrier
Must Hp Permitted.
WASH I NO TON*. .Tuly 11.?Final de
cision by the State Department that
the German submarine Deutsehland is
ai merchant ship, entitled to all privi
leges accorded under international law
to a belligerent-owned freighter, was
forecast to-night bv receipt of pre
liminary reports on an inspection of
the underwater 'liner at Baltimore by
naval officers and Treasury officials.
Collector Ttyan. of Baltimore, tele
graphed the Treasury Department
that after a thorough examination o(
the boat by himself and Captain C. F.
I-lughes. appointed by the Navy Depart
ment to assist, lie adhered to his pre
vious oninion that the vessel is an
unarmed merchantman, incapable of
conversion for warlike purposes "with
out extensive structural changes." A
detailed report will be submitted to
morrow Department officials to-night
believed that a prima facie case tend
ing to prove that the Deutsehland is
a peaceful and unarmed merchantman,
had been established
A I.I.IKS SAY S m.M A It IMC
IS I'OTENTIAI. WARSHIP
Formal representations have been
made by the .British ami French em
bassies holding that the'submarine is
a potential warship, not entitled to tho
freedom of American ports, and sub
ject to attack at sight on the high
seas. These contentions will be con
sidered in connection with the report
of the Federal investigators. Acting
Secretary Polk said to-night the allied
diplomats would be informed of tho
result only if (hey made inquiry.
The duty now of the United States,
officials explained, is to see that no
structural changes are made during
tho Deutschland's stay in American
waters which would fit her for hostilo
purposes, but should the ruling of tho
Navy and Treasury investigators bo
sustained, the Deutsehland, like any
other merchantman, would have tho
right to clear with cargo, including
trims, munitions or German reservists.
Reports that the State Department
had advance notice of the Deutsch
land's trip are denied.
The State. Department, it was of
ficially declared, will not concern itself
with reported objections by Canadian
nickel interests to exportation of
nickel on the Deutsehland. Agree
ments of American purchasers of Cana
dian nickel not to re-export the metal,
Acting Secretary Polk explained, wero
purely private.
PREPARING TO 1.13AVE PORT
WITHIN NEXT TEN DAYS
BALTIMORE. July 11.?Confident
that the efforts of tho diplomatic
representatives of the entente allies to
have his vessel classed as a warship
and interned will prove unavailing,
I'aptain Paul Koenig, master of tho
German submarine Deutsehland. is pre
paring to leave port on his return
voyage within ten days.
i'aptain Koenig expressed satisfac
tion to-night, but no surprise, when
informed that three American naval
officers who inspected the Deutsehland
to-day to determine her status had re
ported in effect that not only was sho
an unarmed merchant vessel now, but
was so constructed that she could not
l>e converted into a war craft without
virtually being rebuilt. Captain Koenig
said he could only reiterate that tho
Deutsehland. like other submarines
built or building for Germany's new
undersea merchant Meet, was designed
solely as a freight carrier.
At least eight of these vessels, it
was authoritatively learned here to
day, now are building at Kiel, and with
these, in addition to the Deutsehland
and tho P.renien, already en route for
an American port, Germany expects. In
a measure, to re-establish her lost com
merce and mail communication with
the rest of the world. Tho view hero
is that no such project ? would have
been undertaken had not the German
interests behind it boon thoroughly
satisfied that the status of the vessel
was umjuestionahie.
NOT >t IISTA Vl'IAI. EX Ol' (? II
TO III-;A It TOM Pi :DO TL IIES
The possibility that the Deutsehland
might be pierced for torpedo tubes was
the chief concern of the American
naval officers, headed by Captain C. F,
I limbos, who inspected the vessel to
day. Not only was none, found, but
an examination of the forward part
of the vessels hull, where torpedo
tubes naturally would bo located, re
vealed. it was learned, that the struc
ture was not substantial enough to con
tain them. Before tho Deutsehland
could bo armed like a German naval
submarine eutlio reconstruction for*
