v
Fair and warm to-day; to-morrow fair
IT SHINES FOB, ALL
ana warm; moderate winds. ,
Highest temperature yesterday, 85; loweit, 69,
Detailed weather, mull and marine reports on page Hi.
VOL. LXXXIII. NO. 316. NEW YORK, WEDNESDAY, JULY 12, 1916. cqpm. . a.. rrn,(g and mmhtng A.,0cm0n. ONE CENT ,XB5l!T&&. 1 twTATt.
r
WEEKLY CARGO
BY SUBMARINE,
SAYS LOHMANN
Originator of Idea to Break J
Jtlockadc Tells Plans
of Company.
U. S. DECIDES VESSEL
IS A MERCHANTMAN!.,
Amsterdam, via London, Julv 11
I Herman submersible merchantman of
the Ib?utschlnnd clnss Is carrlng to
y -ew ork a mysterious German cure for
Htnu.v, July U (via London, July ,"?n,,ll' Paralysis.
,:,.-The open.,., of d.reet sh.pp.ng ! Ni!wsnv
connections between Germany and the f"ni a wiuioe close to the Geriruti I,cga
United States by the submarine mer- ,'?". T1"' ""bm.irlne Is .-eported to
. , , . , , , , be a'feady en mute for New York,
chantman DeutschUnd hint occasioned A lending German scientist, who for
freit Jubilation nnd enthusiasm among' 1ar,8 ". bfcn eiudylng infantile par.
German,, but no one more dated K I? ToS
than Alfred Lohmann, formerly pro- dealcs. Is raid to have discovered a
Went of the Uremen Chamber of Com-' fur5 "V,h -uMe-sfuIly tested
... ... . , 1 Sweden and Norway. Thin cure now
merce and the originator of an under- Is to be offered to the American cities
witer service. I stricken with the plague. The dlscoiery
i . . . . "a" been clone! guarded In Germany
To the Associated Tress Herr Loh-! nlll nu details reBardlng th" nature or
mnn said to-day that the Deutsch- form of the cure are known.
Und was only the tlrst of n fleet of sw vu JilVutul!'tputmlc ln
, , lork reached llerlln the discoverer
submarine freighter and that a regu- of the cure consultej the German Gov-
Ur transatlantic service with fri-
qutnt sailings would soon be In opera
tion.
A second boat, named the Bremen,
he added. Is about to Mart fur Amer
ica with a cargo, and n number of
sister ships are rapidly approaching
completion It Is understood that the
number of boats will soon lie adequate'
for the istiiblishmml nf a weekly ser-
Uce. I
i
Free of All llestrlrtlnns.
"Itememlier." said Herr l.ohmann.
that the Deutschland was entirely
unarmed. She carried no torpedo
tubes, no cannon and no weapons of
offence or defence of any kind.
"So anxious v.i-. I that the unarmed
merchantman character of our taut
ihouM be et.tablis.hed beyond doubt
that I Insisted that the captain ot the
l)euielil.nid should not. even carry the
eu'tonnry revolver upon leaving
Bremen."
I'tnler these circumstances, he coi
tended there Is nothing to preent the
Ii tls-.i.ai, ! e.i usiveiy a merchant
iii.im. from reman. tng a- Ions as s.ie
p. I. - in a neutral haibor and loading
a . I go, fuel and supplies, free troai
lie restrict, oils which prevent warships
from enter.njr a ueutrHl p-irt except un-,
ilu- strc. u.- remaining over twenty
. 'Ur hu'jrx
"1 eoi eiied 'he idea of breaking the '
British bloi n.nle long ago," continued
lltrr l nu un, 'but the project first
'.'ok definite shape last autumn, when
I succeeded In convimiiu the Mpltallsts
'iCuitnl with me the Deutsche Hank
.tnl the Norrtdeutschc Lloyi that the
r.ar presumably would list another
tstlie i; ji -as. Tins was the hardest
part of iny task. Once this was dune
the re' was easy, for our tlgures
showed t!tat tin- boats would more than
I") for th iiselvea In n single round
tr p.
I'mIIimii-iI I anal Itontr.
" oinpan was Immediately Inor
mrate.l if the (Wm.in Ocean Navlci
t'm I'.impj i) of Hi men. with a njm
pil '.ilil al Articles eie tiled on No
i jer s jmi wurk was commep.'td an
it tl i -T anil MConJ boats. The lJulst -ml
u .'i innted tome time iit.i. and
r -is, -s.ul trials In the lluUtu
taned fur America, following the ust.I
.fa:e route nf our firemen and Hi n
luTS ste i-uships.
Na I ilon t care to give her exact
'IUis ilai nor the time of paage I'.Ji
'ou an reach an airoxlmatlon froi.i
' ie boat's ;ned of fourteen knots, mak
"f the iieeessiry allowance for reiluej
lH when ruimtng submerged and for
t-rtalu time In resting on the bottom,
h h m,is necescary In getting through
tre channel ;iut the llrltlsli llps.'
Herr Lohman explained that his retl
cuae was lue less to Germany's ene
m.tf than to the necessity of preserving
rets from expected competitors In
'i'rm.iny, who, he said, "would hasten
to Itiuule the immensely profitable He'd."
In fact, he was no more exultant over
the success nf the t future and Its 1m-
"oeS's.Ieic'r'
'et'ii'Iy referred to his ideals as "a
Julu Verne romance,
Htrr I.ohman believes the war will
not end before next spring, and that the
submarine freighters will make many
profitable voyages.
re iv From -Merchant Marine,
Th Deutschland and her sister ship
re J.fioo ton boats. The fuel is largely
arried m ballast and the diving tanks,
which are tilled with eea water as the
"i" w 'onsuiiied.
The ottk-ers and crew of the fleet hai't
n recruited from the German mercan
' murine. Home difficulty was ex
PTlenreil n procuring their releasa
'mm naval service, but this was accom
tuisheii an,j every man Anally and defl
I'tfly mustered out before leaving Ger
many The return of the Deutschland will bs
ri-vle the occasion of a great celebra
''in a in banquet at Hremen. This will
' the formal celebration of the reopen
"t nf direct German-American trade re
i'tions IS A MERCHANTMAN.
tlste Department So Derides After
a .Naval Inspection.
imii.s&ton, July XI. Official In
Wlgjtlnn, backed by the opinion of the brokers who affixed the stamps, un
Anier.e.ii, naval et,en .hftw that th der a decision by the Court of Appeals
"nn.-tti submarine Deutschland is a
"."reliant ship and not capable of being
Mntformed Into a warship on the high
'! The report of the Inquiry made by
' jpt, C r Hughes of the navy reached
"ie .State Department through the Treas
ury D'partment late this afternoon.
Acting Secretary of Htate Polk Indl
'ted after receiving It that the status
n' the Shin Kai now nttiirai.tnrilv tele.
mlr.fil so f,,r a, thin Government Is conT
'rnej, n may as a matter of routine
fier the report to ihe neutrality board,
Y'1 " Ih unlikely that this will change
"e situation.
The protests nf Great Hrltaln and
rrjuce. against the presence of the
""utschland In an American port on the
"oswi that she Is potentially a warship
'll not affect this Government's posl
V.iin. H'cnrnlton of the Deutschland as a
rchintmn means that the officers and
Continued on Fourth Pag.
i I . l - I BRITISH Will IN
LAJYD NEW YORK PRE SSI
I l
PARALYSIS REMEDY
ABOARD SUBMARINE
Hcing Hushed to Tills Coun
try, Savs He port From
Amsterdam.
eminent as to the advisability of offer-
urn u m me siries.cn American com
munities. The Uoverumcnt readily
aereed to the project, and plans were
at once jnit under way by a co.imlttee
consisting of some of the most famous
German scientists.
$10,000 FOR KOENIO S CBEW.
Ilrcksrher (iliri It In Token of
Atlnilrntlnn of (Snllsintr) .
August Hrckscher. n vry wealthy New
York real tetate owner, told Ambaisa
dor von Ilei nstorff yesterday he wished
to ge llti.rt"0 to be distributed among
the officers and men of the submarine
Deutschland. C tint von llernstorfl re
plied that as the Deutschland was n pri
vately owned liner it would be better
to send the gift through tin- North Ger
man I.lo)d Steamship Company.
So Mr Heckscher. fiom his otllce at
5T I'lfth axenue. sent a check for
llu.poo to Oiiarlix vjii llelmolt. the
North German l.losil manager lie
said he tendered It "In token of my ad
nvratlon for their gallantrs. their ea
inan!ii) and their matchless courage "
Mr. von Helmolt indorsed the check
t i the otder of Capt I'aul Komlg and
forward d it to hltn ln ltaltimore.
CITY LAW A BAR TO
"CAR AHEAD" RULING
Traction Unos Can't Knfoive
P. S. C. Krtift Without
RisUinjr fl0 Fine.
It developed at a Public Service Com
mission hearing esterd.iy that an Al
I'etin.uilc ordinance and an order of the
eommlsHlon conflict, and therefore the
ti.ni'-portatlon companies of tlie city are
In a nu'er predicament.
The jiolnt at issue was the transfer
r'ng of jiassengers from one car to an
other on the same line the "take ear
ahead" sltuatloa. The commission's
order of July 1 was that whenever pas
sengers were so changed for any reason
full reports should be made. The order
forbau such a transfer except for
"good cause."
At a hearing esterday on this order
counel for the H. It. T. and the Third
Avenue Hallway Company brought up
the point that an ordinance of years
sgo forbade such transfer for any c:iue
e.cept accident. Therefore, counsel
maintained, the roads should not be
compelled to make a rejort if they
changed passengers for any other reaon
even though th' I'ubllc Service Com
mission might think It "good cause"
because they would be Incriminating
themselves and would have to pay $100
fine for each offence.
Commissioner Whitney pondered this
novel defence, and said he would an
nounce his decision later. It wa gath
ered, however, that the railroads would
CZAK BUYS $22,000,000 RAILS.
Conlrnetn Mean Profit nf fll.
OOO.OOO for Mteel Cmnpanlrs,
Pnii.AnEi.PHiA, July 11. Contracts
Just closed In this country by the Rus
lan Government for steel rails will give
the steel companies a protlt of (1 1,000,
000 and railroads about 11,000,000 In
transporting the finished rails to tide
water. The contracts call for 4",000
tone of 67 j pound rails at I.'? a ton,
making a total of moie than 122,000,000.
it la understood that l.'O.OOO tons go
I lo the Mldvale Steel and Ordnance Com
pany to be rolled by the ( ambrla Steel
Company at Johnstown; 150,000 tons to
the United Statfs Steel Corporation,
which will manufacture the rails at
Pittsburg: 73,000 tons to the Lackawan
na Steel Company, which has Its plant
nt lluffalo, and 30.000 tons to the llethle
hem Steel Company.
BROKERS TO REGAIN $650,000.
Stale Mast Itefund Payments (or
Stock Transfer Stamps.
Albany, July, 11, Approximately
1650,000 paid the State for stock trans
fer stamps affixed to securities under
the provisions of a law subsequently
declared unconstitutional will revert to
lo-oay.
The -ruling was made fh a case grow
J out of a ruling by the old board of
alalms that such moneys should be re
talned by the Htate. New York brokers
carried the caso to the Court of Ap
peals. "WAR BRIDEGROOM" REJECTED.
James A. liarnelil Falls to Meet
Array Standard.
Ci.kvei.anp, O., July 11, James A.
Cnrfleld, nephew of the late President,
whose "war wedding" to Mlsei Janet
rioilice of Cleveland attracted consider,
able attention recently, will not go to
the border after all.
Me has been rejected as a member
ol Troop A, the Cleveland cavalry unit
at Camp Willis, and will hae to re
turn home along with 100 other not
measuring up to the army standard,
DEATH RATE JUMPS
IN CHILD PLAGUE
Dnj-'H Fnfnlity Kcconl 32,
With 105 Now Chi.p8 Rc
ported In City.
BROOKLYN WORST SPOT
Mii.vnr Culls Confereni'c for
T-(ly and Work of Clean
insr lTp Progresses.
The epidemic of Infantile paralysis
became more acute yesterday. The
number of deaths more than doubled,
while the new cases were nearly twice
those of the preceding day, with
Hrooklyn suffering most severely.
The statistics of the Health Depart
ment given out yesterday morning for
the previous day nnnotinced the new
cases at ISO and the deaths at 32
On Monday the figures showed
103 new cases ami 14 deaths for
Sunday.
The upward Jump has been feared
dally by Health Commissioner Kmer
son as the logical development of the
epidemic. When questioned as to his
analysis of the tlgures there were
135 new cases ln Hrooklyn, compared
with fourteen In Manhattan Dr. Em
erson said that the number of cases
on a Monday had proved Invariably
higher than on any other day of the
week. He also said that the strenuous
work of the police, the members of the
Home Defence League. Tenement
House inspectors and Health Depart
ment officials In searching tenement
houes and the poorer sections of the
city also had resulted ln suspected
vases Uing reported to the Health De
partment. tiithnrltlr Vol Alarmed.
The sudden Increase In the number of
afflicted clldrin, nun- numbering 1,278
rases and 270 deaths, cannot be said to
have given alarm to the Health lepart
inent or to Mayor Mltchel. Dr. Kiner
son has reiH-atedly admitted the p'ssl
Idllty "f such a development and has
hi'Cr, (loiltir his llfmngf In view nf th
' little known about the disease, to con- '
trol Its spread.
The .Mayor, however, after confer- ,
ring with Dr Kmerson jesterday after
noon, called on the heads of depart- ;
inents. members of ihe general ndvis-'
oiy committee of the Health Depart-1
n, cm and distinguished physicians to.
meet lit City Hall at 11 o'clock this
morning to dKcu the situation.
While the Major l" confident the
lleulth Department Is doing ever) thing,
known to science to curb the disease,
he deemed It wise to have a full dls- '
ctieslnn of the- stcp being taken. Dr.
Kmernn had arranged for a conference
with the advisory lioard to-morrow aft
ernoon, hut at the Mayor's suggestion It ,
will be held to-day. Suggestions and
ri itli Ism will be asked from the experts
' and further help may be asked from I
the different departments. I
Among the doctors who will be pres
ent at the meeting are Dr. Simon Fiex
ner. Dr. U Kmmet Holt, Dr. William H. '
.lames. Dr. II. M. Hlggs, State Health ,
Commissioner; Dr. William M. Polk, Dr.
A H. Doty, Dr. 3. W, Urannan and Dr. 1
, G, It, Hutler.
i The decision to call the conference
' was reached at the talk which Mayor
Mltchel and Dr. Kmerann had yesterday
j afternoon. The reporters were called In
, at the end of the conference and both
I officials made a statement.
I The Major's Statement.
The Mayor said:
i "On Sunday I tried to make It plain
tl al the department was doing all that It
roulil with the scientific knowledge that
there is available to-day as to the means
I of fighting this thing and preventing Its
' spread : that we were going even beyond!
the point that is dictated by the know!-'
, edge nf the disease by attacking all un
I cleanly conditions in the streets as well
as In the homes. ,
I "The knowledge that there Is of the'
' disease points to the fact that It Is com-
I munlcated by personal contact and that
1 the avoidance of the spread depends on ,
personal cleanliness In each case. The'i
I department is trying to Insure that by
dealing with each case the moment It Is
I reported, getting It Into hospital If It
can, where It can control all the condi
tions, and we nre taking the off chance'
by making a strenuous and a special ef
fort to icmove all uncleanly conditions
that may exist In the Btreets, houses,
areaways, cellars and so forth.
Una 400 Reds Available.
"The doctor tells me that all of the
hospital accommJdatlons jt the city are1
In cooperation, are being freely offered
to the department, and that he has avail
able In the hospitals not less than 100 .
beds for such cases as may develop, and I
that as soon as those facilities are ex-,
imusterf, as soon as we reach the ca
pacity of the hospitals, that we have,
Kills Island, and when that point Is
reached we have the offer of the Hed
Cross.
"An understanding has been reached
with them that they will furnish 100 ail-
dltlonal nurses for Kills Island or what-1
ever number are necessary, so that we
have resources, material reserve re-1
sources, for dealing with the situation. In
the meantime the force of sanitary In-1
spectnrs on the streets and In the houses
Is sufficient In the Judgment of the Com
missioner to get everything that has to
be done done promptly."
"Are the ambulance facilities suf
ficient? Commissioner Emerson was
asked.
"They are; that Is, there Is no delay
ln getting cases to the hospitals."
"I inked the doctor," Interrupted the
Mayor, "about that, and he tells me
that they have to be careful of two
sides In this question. They have to
be careful In getting a case to the hos
pital at the earliest possible moment
when the diagnosis Is positive, and '.hey
lhave to be careful not to put into hos
pital near to otner cases a case mat
may be wrongly diagnosed, because If
they do they are exposing the child to
Infantile paralysis to which It would
not otherwise be exposed, Whtn s
Continued on Fourth fag.
THE PRICE OF THE SUN
We are receiving complaints from readers in some places
in the country saying newsdealers are charging three cents for
The Sun.
This is all wrong, and there is no excuse for it. The retail
price of The Sun is now one cent in Greater New York, Jersey
City and Newark elsewhere two cents.
Any newsdealer in the country who charges more than two
cents for The Sun is demanding n price he has no right to get.
Since I bought The Sun a week ago and reduced the price,
it is sold to newsdealers at precisely the same price at which
they buy thejjNew York Times and World, and it should be sold
to the reading public at the same price at which the Times and
World sell.
Any purchaser of The Sun who is compelled to pay more
than two cents for it in the country or more than one cent in
the one cent zone will do me a favor by reporting the fact to me.
The Sun must be sold everywhere at a right price.
FRANK A. MUNSEY.
FULL POWER KEPT
BY RESERVE BOARD
Will Decide Interloefcinsr Di
rectorate Cases Individually
1'nder Clayton Law.
Wasiiimiton. July 11. The IVleral
Itesene lloaid Is-ued n statement to-'
day construing the new amendment to"
the Clayton law which removes the ban
from Interlocking dlrectotates of lion
competing banks. Here are excerpts
from the board's memorandum:
"The Pedeial Heeerve Hoard consid
ers two bank In substantial competition
within the meaning of the language used
In the amendment If the business en-
gaged in by such banks under natural
and normal conditions conflict" or Inter
feres, or if the cessitlon of competition
between the two would be injurious to
customers or would-be customers, or
would probably tesult In lessening the
volume of bulness or kinds of business
of either Institution.
"The act does not vest an arbitrary
dlsetitlon In the board, but merely con-fers-'authorlty
upon It to permit Inter
locking directorates nnd common officers I
when the banks are not la substantial
competition.
"In determining the question whether
the banks are In substantial competition
no fKed rule can be prescribed. .
"The application blank- provide for ,
the statement of certain facts relating
to the business of the bank concerned.
The hoard In reaching Its decision will
eonsliler this statement and the report
and recommendation of the Federal re
serve agent."
, DYNAMITE IN TUNNEL BLAZE.
Fleeing Workers Kmpt) Mnsaslne
at 7th Ate. nn.l ii.'lil Nt.
Following the first rush of subway
workers fleeing from the smoke In the
excavation at Seventh avenue anil Twenty-third
street last night were two or
three who lingered long enough to snatch
armfuls of sticks of dynamite from the
magazine only a few feet from the
watchman's shanty, forty feet below the
street level, whete the fire started. Dep
uty Fire Chief Itoss's first order was to
corral the laden workmen and relieve
them of the explosive.
Police reserves from two stations had
trouble with a crowd of 10,000 persons.
Traffic on the Seventh avenue and Twenty-third
street lines was blocked for
about an hour.
The plank covering of the now subway
was torn up and the flro was flooded
with nine lines of hose. The damage
was slight.
FRANCE HAY TAKE ALL SHIPS.
Ilruntlra true Iteinlltlonlng of
Kntlre Merchant Marine.
Paris, July 11. The Chamber ot
Deputies adopted to-day a resolution
urging the Government to Introduce a
bill providing for the requisitioning of
thi entire French merchant marine for
the duration of the war.
One of the objects sought Is the re
duction of freight carrying charges,
which Is one of the causes of the high
cost of living. Shipowners whose ves
sels have not been requisitioned are
said to have made a profit of 300.000,
iiOO francs since the war started.
CLEARY'S CONVICTION UPHELD.
HaverstrniT Leader Justlr In Sins;
Slnar, II la-heat Court Holds,
Ai.pant. July 11. The conviction of
William V. Cleary. former Democratic
leader of Haverstr.iw, for second degreo
forgery was upheld by the Court of Ap
peals to-day. Cleary Is serving from
three to six years in Sing Sing.
The Indictment for forgery followed
an investigation of his accounts as town
clerk Instituted by Attorney-General
Woodbury after deary's acquittal of the
murder of his son-in-law, EugVne M.
Newman.
.Several Indictments charging Cleary
with the misappropriation of the town
poor funds are standing,
NO VOTES UNLESS WAR COMES.
Tbnt la Secretary Martin's View
Concerning Jrrse Guarilainrn.
Tkknton, N, J July 11, Cnless Ihe
United States declares war against
Mexico the members of the New Jersey
National Guard now- stationed at the
border will not be entitled to vote on
election day or at the primaries, Such
was the gist of a statement given out
to-day by Secretary of State Martin.
Mr, Martin contends that unless this
country Is actually at war there Is no
provision In the State Constitution en
abling a soldier on, duty outside the
State to exercise his right .of franchise.
Squadron A Man Missing.
St, Louis, July 11, The St. Louis po
lice are searching for Churlea McAlpin
Pyle, a member of Troop C, Squadron A,
Tfew York Cavalry, who has been miss.
Ire? since the squadron passed through
East St. Lou la early Sunday rooming,
when It Is thought Pyle missed the train.
NEW YORK GETS BIG
SLICE OF ROADS FUND
Wins n (Jenerous Share
985,000,000 Voted by
Congress.
of
Wasiiinotos-, Julv 11. New York
was assured a substantial slice of the
S5, 000.000 of the funds made availabti
for the construction of rural roads when
President Wilson signed the Federal all
road bill to-day.
Of this sum $73,000,000 is to be ex
pended for the construction of rural pot
roads under, cooperative arrangements
with the highway departments of the va
rious States and $10,000,000 for roads
and trails within or partly within th
national forests. The act limits the Fed
eral Government's share In road wort
In cooperation with the States to SO per
cent, of the estimated cost of constru.
tlon. Federal aid may be extended t
the construction of any rural post road,
excluding all streets or roads in town
having a population of 2.300 or more, except-
the portions of such streets or roads
on which the houses are on an average
more than 200 feet apart.
Five million dollars Is made available
for expenditure during the fiscal year
ending June 30. 1917, and thereafter the
appropriation Is Increased at the rate .?
5.OOU.000 a ear until 1?21, when the
sum provided is $25,000,000. making a
total of $75,000,000. In addition an ap
propriation of $1,900,000 a year for ten
years, a total of $10,000,000. is mads
available for the development of roads
and trails wholly or partly within tn
national forests.
Harbor Hrnort Adopted.
Wasiiinhton. July 'll. The House to
day adopted the inference report on
the river and harbor aproprlatlon bill,
which carries MO.000.000 ln cash ap
propriations and $3,000,000 In authori
zation". A final attempt to defeat the
bill was made hy Representative Frear,
Hepubllcan. Wisconsin, but the confer
ence report was approved by a vote
of 17 to 132.
When Representative Frear asserted
that the New York members would vote
for the hill because of the "sop" It con
tained for New York harbor ln the ap
propriation for Hast Hlver, he was taken
to task by Representative Hulbert of
New York, orlizin.il sponsor for the
East Itlxcr item.
TO SIGN RURAL CREDITS ACT.
President Arranging; for Mttle
Sneechmaklns; Ceremony.
Washington-, July 11. President, Wil
son Is arranging for a little spcccnmak
Ing ceremony in his office this week to
mark the signing of, the rural credits
act. The measure has been awaiting the
President's signature for several days.
The President, in signing the second
financial enactment nf his Administra
tion, wilt make a speech setting forth the
significance he attaches to It. He will
make It clear that he believes the Fed
eral reserve act and the rural credits
act fill a long existing need of the coun
try. SCHWAB TO SPEND $35,000,000.
Will improie Plants at Steelton
nnd Sparrowa Point.
llAnntsni'Rii, July 11. Charles M.
Schwab, chairman of the Hoard of Dl
lectors of the Itethlehem Steel Corpo
ration which recently took over the
Pennsylvania Steel Works and the Mary
land Steel Works, announced here to-day
that $15,000,000 would be spent at
Steelton and $20,000,000 at the Maryland
works at Sparrows Point,
New features at Sleellon will be milts
is roll plates for construction of Mib
niatlnes and snips which ore to be as
sembled at Ellziibethvort and Sparrows
Point. Mote blast finnares, rolling
inllln, 'coke ovens and truckage also are
planned for Steelton.
ROCKEFELLER BOARD IN PERU.
Commission to Mtndr Yellow Fever
Call on President Pardo.
Lima. Peru, July 11, The Yellow
Fever Commission of the International
Health Hoard of the Rockefeller Foun
dation, headed by Gen. William C. Gor
Siih, I', S. A arrived here to-day,
Gen. Gnrg.'iB paid his respects to Pres
ident Pardo and iiBked his permission to
study the sanltnry conditions at the xirt
of IqultllH.
CASTRO ON WAY TO NEW YORK.
Leaves narbados for Pleasure Trip,
He says May Re Plotting;.
HniPisrrowN, narbados, July 11,
Gen. Clprlano Castro, for many years
dictator of Venezuela, sailed on the Vau
ban yesterday for New York. He Is
going on "a pleasure trip," he said.
He arrived here on June 2S from Trin
idad, where he had spent several months.
He has refused to discuss his affairs, In
sisting he Is out of politics.
Cestre's cartoons no aapsar daitr In The
New York Kvsnlng Post Dally 3c, Sst, ic,
-Aiv.
GONLEY AND PHELAN
DROPPED FROM 69TH
Colonel nnd Llcut.-Colonel Re
jected ns Unfit as Unit
Moves to Texas.
REGIMENT IS INDIGNANT
Pressure Heinsr Brought to
Bear on Washington .to
Reinstate Officers.
The "fishtlng Sixty-ninth" of New
York started for the Texas border from
Camp Whitman last night In n frame
of mind which bodes III for Mexican
raiders and other obstreperous persons
in that vicinity. Shortly before the
regiment entrained word came from
Governors Island that Col. Ixmls D.
Contey and I.leut.-Col. J. I. Phelan
most warilorllko of all the warrior
tribe are to be mustered out of terv
Ice because of ph)slcal unfitness.
Col. Conley was allowed to go along
with his men, but as soon a he gets
them lo Pharr, Tex., he will come back
here to be put on the retired list. I.leut.
Col. Phelan was not permitted to leave
at all, but had to stand, almost In tenrs,
alongside the railroad track up at Green
Haen and watch his boys get away.
Hut that's not all.
The Colonel and his second In com
mand, It may be said, are mad clean
through. They swear by their chargers'
hoofs that they're as fit to fight as any
man that totes a gun, nnd before they
are through they think the War Depart
ment, or whatever was responsible for
removing them, will wish It hadn't.
Will Appeal to ecretr Maker.
Hoth are going to appeal to Secretary
Hiker over the verdict of the army sur
geons, and before their regiment was
out of the State the wheels had bten
put In motion to have the order ie
aclnded. Charges that military' politics had
been Instrumental In the situation were
made freely by friends of the two men
last night, and telegrams were sent far
nnd wide asking varlwus persons in pub
lic life to use their Influence, ln Wash-
Jngton several New York Coniessmen
called on secretary or ar liaker and
protested vehemently against the "un
fit" order.
Representatives Conry ami Bonnet,
spokesmen for the delegation, declared
that Major-Gen. Wood's action was ar
bitrary and taken without proper Inves
tigation. Secretary Raker fold them he
knew nothing about the case, but would
direct Gen. Wood to make ii report on
the facts.
Returning again to the regiment, there
were stormy linns at the camp before it
entrained, Men and. officers alike raged
lit the situation. Some wanted to re
sign, others wanted to strike, nnd nil
wanted to tight. It was only after no
small amount of blarney and argument
that they were brought to the realization
of the fact that they have taken the;
Federal oath and that the Government
can do as It likes about their command
ers. Finally they quieted down nnd
marched awiy, 1,000 and more potential
and by no means extinct human vol
canoes. "Col. Conley wa mustered out of the
Federal service because of phsleal dis
ability," said Gen. wood In a statement
last night. "His Ineapaclt) was re
ported by the examining suiseon In the
regular course of' his duty .to the Sur
geon'Oeneral of the department, and he
In turn reported to me. There was noth
ing for me to do but my duty. Col,
Conley, howevet, may appeal, as other
officers hme done, to the Secretary of
war."
Might Slitn a Wnlver.
Gen. Wood said that the action was
not final. In view of the appeal which
the officers have, and ftom Other sources
It was learned that Col. Conley may be
permitted to keep his command if he
will sign a waiver releasing the Go em
inent from any claims for disabilities re
sulting from his phslcal condition. An
affection of the heart that Is Incurable
was the reason for the rejection, accord
ing to nn officer in authority at depart
ment headquarters.
Major Sanford 11, Wadhams, chief
surgeon at Camp Whitman, examined
Col. Conley at his request after anothir
surgeon had rejected him. The report
of th second examination was sent to
Gen. Wood's headquarters, whire it was
reviewed by Col. Charles Richards, chief
of the surgeon nf the deputtment, who
agreed with Major Wadhams that Col.
Conley had failed to pass. From thl
resulted a conference with Gen. Wood
and Col. Glenn. Gen. Wood's chief of
staff, late Monday night, at which the
decision was arrived at that there was
nothing to do but reject the two officers
of the Sixty-ninth.
Gov. Whitman said tho news was a
complete surprise to hltn. He said that,
both officers appeared to him to be phys
ically fit when he saw them at Camp
Whitman a few da)s aim.
MEN DUMFOUNDED.
Healment Marts fur Texas In
Dilapidated Troop L'nra,
Camp Whitman, c.iiki..v Havi:n, N. v..
July 11, At :30 o'clock this evening
the last of the Sixty-ninth Infantry
clambered aboard a train of dilapidated
day coaches at Green Haven station and
began the long ride to tho Texas, border.
The first section, which was composed
entirely of baggage and equipment, left
about 4 o'clock, anil the second section,
which carried the first two battailous
and most of thu officers, left ut :'-2
o'clock.
The delay was due In the first place
to the consternation caused by the oust
ing of Col, Conley and I.leut.-Col. Phelao.
No one knew what was coming next and
the men stood about dumfounded, sim
ply waiting.
The cars supplied were some that il
reacly had seen service as troop trains.
They weie Uttered up and dlity. It was
necessary to send a detail of men to
scrub them from floor to windows.
The Sixty-ninth Is angry cleur
through, but the men are soldiers above
all. At first there was open grumbling
and wild talk of trouble, but this died
down almost iiiunedlulrly. The ollUers
too talked of asking leave to resign,
They spoke of It to' Col. Conley. Iln
begged them to stick. Chaplain Duffy
CoMfOiticrf on Tliml Vaye,
DAVISON FORMING
, AVIATION PATROL
Orders Seaplane and With
Other Yale Men Starts
Study of Science.
P. T. Davison, son of II. P. Davison,
of J. P. Morgan 4 Co., ordered a 90
horse-power Curtlss flying boat yester
day as the first seaplane for a com
plete unit of the Aerial Coast Patrol ln
New York. Mr. Davison and four
others all Yale men reported to the
Wanamaker Aviation Pchool at Tort
Washington, L. I., yesterday, to begin
limning In aviation.
Hubert Lovett, son of Judge Lovett;
Allan Ahmes, II. P. Sturtevant and C.
D. Wynan were the four others. Their
plans are to form a unit of fourteen,
four of whom shall be pilots, four ob
seriers, four anti-aircraft gun men and
two wireless experts. The equipment of
the unit will consist of four seaplanes
and the automobiles and motor boats
required for anti-aircraft guns.
The Aero Club of America proposed
the scheme for the patrol system some
months ago and It has been Indorsed by
tho War and Navy Departments. A
few days ago a bill was Introduced In
the Senate providing an appropriation.
Mr. Davison's flying Boat will be de
livered In a few days. Admiral Peary,
John Hays Hammond Jr., Alan It Haw
ley and Henry D. Woodhouse helped
develop the plans.
QUIT ALLIES TO AID U. S.
Knur Anierleans Itetnrn Pros
France on fall for the Mllltla.
Patriotism Impelled several American
passengers who arrived last night from
Hordeaux by the French liner La Tou
ralne to abandon their war Johs In
France and hurry to what they believed
to be a call for their energies on tho
Mexican border.
Oliver Wolcott of Massachusetts re
signed as "section chief" In the ambu
lance service of Verdun to return to
Troop H of the Massachusetts Cavalry.
Gordon MacCough of Squadron A,
New York Cavalry, likewise felt the call
of his own country, as did Harry Adam
son, a Lieutenant of the Second Massa
chusetts Infantry. K. N. Stanton, nn
other ambulance driver In France, came
back hoping to get a commission In the
volunteer army.
BRACEBIT BILL FREE
TILL BULLETS RAIN
Scales Slug Sing Wall and
Dives Into Hudson After
Hilling Five Davs.
Ossinimi, N. Y.. July 11. "Rraceblt
Hill" Armstrong, the burglar who went
Into hiding at Sing Sing last Pridav,
crawled out to-night, elilnned over the
Prlon wall and dived Into the Hudson.
He started to swim for renl liberty nnd
prison guards began to Maze nt him
with their rifles. The bullets whizzed
uncomfortably near "Rraceblt Hill's
ears and he lacked back to shore, where
he was grahbed. He was taken back
to the prison and was locked up.
The prisoner wasn't In a confiding
mood when acting Warden Klrchwey
took him In hand, and he declined to
say Jut where he had been keeping him
self for five das. It Is belleed by the
prison keepers Hint he had tucked him
self away under some lumber In fie
prison yard.
Warden Klrchwey said he believed
from Uie appearance of Armstrong that
he was suffering from lack of food, a',
though the deputy warden was quoted
as saying that he was of the opinion the
man had been supplied with sufficient
food to keep his circulation going.
Ever since Armstrong turned up miss
ing at a coujil of nose, on Friday night
a s stein. itle search has been made of
every nook and corner of the prison and
prison yard for tho missing prisoner,
Everybody was confident he was some
where on the premises and there was
much exasperation because nobody
could put their hands on him.
When Armstrong was seen going over
the wall l.ite to-night armed guards
started for hint and chased him to the
river bank. He p)un::e,l overboard nnd
they began to pop at him when he came
up sputtering.
Warden Klrchwey expects to get his
story to-morrow.
SING SING QUARANTINED.
Iiifnnllle Pnrol)sls Scare t'ansrs
Warden to Art.
Ossinino, N, Y July 11. Sing Sing
prison Is under quarantine.
Alarmed by the spread of Infantile
par.tlss In New York and the dangers
to which the Inmates of the prison
weie being epoed by visitors, George
W Klrchwey, the warden, at S o'clock
this morning ordered the gates closed
to nil callers
O'BRIEN FOR HIGH COURT.
MrniiHT llrpoiumendatlona Filed hy
.V. V. Jurists nnd l,ntT)rrs.
Wasiiimiton, July 11, Strong recom
memlatlons were tiled with the President
to-day in support of the appointment of
former Justice Morgan J. O'llrlen of
New York for the vacancy on the Su
preme bench caused by the resignation
of Justice Hughes. Hx-Justlce O'llrlen
Is president of the New York State liar
As-nclatlnn,
The petition In his behalf Is signed by
all the former presidents of the State
liar Association of New York now liv
ing, many Jurists of that State and
members o the bar. Including Alton II.
Parker, Kdgar M. Cullen, Kllhu Root,
Joseph II. Choate, Francis Lynde Stet
son, William Church Oshortt. George
Gordon Rattle, DeLancey Nlcoll, Ilenrv
W Tart, John II. S-tanchtleld and George
W. Wlckersham.
WEST POINT'S BIGGEST CLASS.
l.in Mure "Plehrs" Kuter, Hrlnglng
Totnl Hnrolment I'p to .IDS,
West Point, July ll, Ono hundred
and fifty new cadets were admitted to
the Military Academy to-day, bringing
tho total up to 308, the largest "plebe"
class In the history of the Institution.
One of the new cadets admitted to-day
comes from Ecuador and another from
Cuba.
GREATDRIVEGN
8 MILE FRONT
In Ten Days of Fighting
They Capture Germans'
First Line.
7,500 TEUTONS ARE
MADE PRISONERS
Whole of Troncs Wood
Again in Hands of the
Allies.
RUSSIANS MAKE A
SWEEPING- ADVANCE
Forces Move Forward 25
Miles on a Long
Front.
Los'posr, July 11, The capture of th
whole of the German first system of de.
fence on a front of 14,000 yards (nnjirly
eight miles), after ten days ami ntghls
of continuous fighting. Is announced In
the official repiyt from llrltlsh head
quarters In Prance. The number of
prisoners taken exceeds 7,500.
The Hrltl"!! to-day recaptured nearly
the whole of the Tropes wesyd. the War
Office announced to-night. All but ths
northernmost end of the wood Is again
iln British hands.
I The latest news to-day Is of sustained
, and heavy fighting on almost all the
' fronts, tho Allies making consistent prog
' ress, with only occasional setbacks. Ths
' Hrltlsh hnve fli.ally eatVured the fiercely
contested town of Contalmaison, nfler
dcperate diy and night lighting, and are
now holding the town against all the
German counter attacks.
IR I sr l.ns to (ierninns,
The.lmvortnnce the Germans have at
tuched lo this position may be measured
jby the fact that they recently threw the
'Prussian Guards Into the lighting at this
, point.
The Hriti-h are In possession also of
, the greater part of Manietz wood. Tho
lliit.-h I'tsnmaiiiier In Chief, lien. Sir
Douglas llalg. thus summarizes the re
suits nf the ten ilas operations:
Our troi ps have completed the me
thodical eipture nf the whole of the
I enemy's tlrst system of defence on a
i front of H.OOii yards.
The nes from the cistern front Is
equally satisfactory from the Allies'
' view. The German official communica
tion nt last admits that the fighting on
the Stokhod line Is approaching Kee4
on both sides of the railway, and claims
thai the Russians have been driven back
near Hulevlclie
Much comment was caused here to
day by the German denial of an nl
lived Russian announcement that Plnsk
i had been evacuated, as no such asser
I tlmi ha jet been made ln the Russian
cttkial despatches.
(ierniiins nt MiiiiiUtlll.
It Is now clear that the Russian drive
In the direction of Knvel has brought
the German ofTenshe at I.utzk to ,i
standstill, and, nccoullng lo the Rus
sian c mimuslratlnn the Germans have
biought up strong reenforceinents to
defend the Stokhod line and KoveL Gen.
llruslloff, however, now has the im
passable l'ink marshes coveting his
tight tlank and Is in a position to out
Hank the German defences of Kovel.
The huge enntlagiatlons, noted In the
Russian communication, oiith of the
Kovel railway are regarded In Petro
grad ns having been caused by the Ger
mans to cover their own retreat and
Impede the Russian advance, which Is
within twenty miles of Kovel.
The rapture of 3 4,00 prisoners by
the Russian In the Stokhod and Gall
clan battles ftom July 4 to July s seems
to Indicate that the German" have been
unable to throw reenforceinents In suf
ficient strength to stem the Russian ad
vance. A striking Illustration of the differ
ence In the relative positions of the al
lied and Teutonic foro. and of the re
markable change from the monotonous
defensive trencji warfare which char
acterize,! the iitlted operations for so
many weary months, until the present
slimmer, Is found In the number of prls
onei and guns taken, Tlie for the
battlp of the Sonime amount lo 22,000
prisoners and 104 guns captured from
the Germans, while the official figures
for the Russian Gen Hruslloff's drive
to July 10 are 271 O'JO prisoners, 313
guns nnd iCf, machine guns.
GERMAN CAIN AT ME USE
Alliance Is In erilnii Seelor andj
In tile I'liniin Wood,
Paris, July 11- While relatlxe calm
prevailed on both sides of Hie Somme,
according to tho olll. i.il communication
Issued by Hie French War Office to
night, heavy fighting occurred on the
right bank of the .Meuse, in tho Ver
dun sector, German fnices there suc
ceeded In gaining a footing In the
Damloup battery and in some sections
of the French line In the Funiin wood.
Tho Germans launched an attack at 4
o'clock this morning on the Trench po
sitions from Fleury to n point east of .
the Chenols wood, They succeeded In
penetrating advanced French tienches at
some points, but were eprllod Imme
diately by a counter attack. West of
the Meuso there was active artillery
fighting In th" neighborhood of Avo
lourt nnd Cliattancouit
The result of the lighting In tho
Somme sector Is the command of the
left bank of the river, from east of
Veullleres to a point opposite I'lauoourt,
the Germans holding onl n few posi
tions on the edge of the river
This does not mean, French military
critics ndaalt. that Pennine run be cap
tured out of hand, The Germans, ac
cording to tho statements of prisoners,
have constructed formidable defences
outside the city, but tho French bellevs
eg.;?!
