- t-Tftrt"i -
'FINANCIAL EDITION
NIGHT
EXTRA.
icuenm
NIGHT
EXTRA
'S
"41
KW
VOL. n. NO. 258
riinJADELPTirA, Wednesday, july 12, ioig.
Corinranr, 1D10, at inr Pctuo tmii Counter.
PRICE ONE CE3STT
NOTHING LIKE COOL WATER ON A HOT DAY
& wMt t
PRINCE BUELOW
LEADS FIGHT TO
BEAT HOLLWEG
Fires First Gun in Cam
paign to Unseat Chan
cellor From Office
QUICK NEWS
ST. LOUIS ,5tG-. 310040000 8 13 2
ATHLETICS. .. 000001002 3 11 4
J?lank and Haitleyj Hasselbncher nnd Meyer.
S
t
y
&
'"it
HJBfHFEMRPVt 'V ftttaTT. &m,Sl&& ?TW i . ar y V - td "a&. ?',' vft?. . '' fik-PV -J''
(VfStJjf-'rfi-.'HI. JW3 I 1 I f Tl TMi , , T - ' T M. Vii -'"-' "ZB. . w. t . . . ,-i Y,tf - . dt T 'VI . . W" ".
w -'v ira iffl" .v f. zo y " w icc
Er: "'''i, FT V?1S ;..-'. ;..y.:l Mm
I- 4 few JsfsMSss. .SSP - flier ,' w . - . .
iMJ&SSPiiM ' K15 ' mias .;T -frrr .-; -- -x ,;
imrK.w"..vv-' .w y ;.,:,, . , ,. - 'vasss.iOZ'ASaKWS.tX S fi.VMOfUJsf ' ., U K3Z.&.i.- .-.
FRENCH REGAIN I r ':.-' 'tMMji 'A
LINES LOST ON Vc, . 'JW1? .7
VERBUN FRONT -Tl 4 W:-
Retake Fumin Wood Ground.
Halt Germans at -Dead
Man's Hill
LULL ON SOMME FRONT
Carry Oiit Successful Attacks
' Against Teutons in
Champagne
PARIS, July 12.
Crown Princo FrcderlcfclVllllam bhlftcd
Ms' nttuclta nnalnst Verddn last night to
"thai west "Unuk-of tlio -Mouse. III3 army
mado violent attacks nt Dead Jlan'ir'lllll.
but tho ofllclal comfhunlquo Icaued by tho
War Olllco this nfternon slated that theso
assaults had been rcnulseil.
On tho cast bank of tho Mcusc a brilliant
counter-attack by tho French resulted In
tho recapture of part of tho Finn In wood
from ths GermanB, who wcro atemptlne to
establish themselves there.
The communlquo also reports continued
successes for tho French In their offensive
In Champagne. They mado numerous raids
upon tho German trenches In tlils'reulon.
Tho text of tho official communlq-iF,
follows:
On both sides of tho Sommo tho night
was calm.
In Champaeno wo captured Bomo
prisoners In tho course of a small oper
ation near Ccrnay. AVo launched soveral
successful surprlso attacks against
oriemy trenches between- Malsons do
Champagne and Calvalrc, north of Vllle-sur-Tourbe.
On the left bank of the Mcuso two
attacks upon one of our trenches at
Dead Stan's Hill were completely
checked by our fire.
' On tho right bank a counter-attack
' launched by u west of Fumin Wood
enabled us to recapture part of the
ground occupied yesterday by the
enemy. During this operation we took
80 prisoners, one of them an officer.
In La Touraine In the sector of
Hellion, we drovo the Germans back
from some trench elements where they
had gained a foothold yesterday. '
GERMANS, REINFORCED,
RETAKE LOST GROUND NEAR
ALBERT, HAIG REPORTS
- LONDON', July 12. German troops re
gained some last ground In tho fighting last
Continued on I'aia Four, Column Three
THE WEATHER
Fierce winter winds were raging and a
heavy snow was falling. That Is the snow
.was heavy after It fell. This was easily
proved when one attacked it with a shovel.
It was a line, very frigid snow that crunched
loud when first stepped on. The trolleys
and autos were blocked In many streets.
In some places where It had drifted the
doorways and portions of tho loyver windows
were ojmost completely obscured.
But the snow was not unexpected. It
seemed to, be In keeping with the never,
ceasing wnd, which caused the- signs to
creak and rattled the windows throughout
tho city.
All 'this happened seven rnontha ago.
Look about you now at the genera scene
and you would hardly believe It. But dls.
agreeable things do not last forever, which
la a great consolation to those who live
In hope.
FORECAST
For Philadelphia and vicinity Fair
and continued warm, with high iu
tnirftty tonight and Thursday; gentle,
southerly winds.
LENGTH OF D.VV.
Run rle.... 4:30a.m. Moon t. . l:20a.m
Bun aU.... 730pm. Moon nouth. 0J57p.ni.'
DKLAWAUK 1UVKK TIDE CIIANQKS,
CHESTNUT STBEET.
I.ow water.. 8:02 am. Low water.! O.-Ort p.m.
Hleh water. 10 J8 a.m. Htgh waUr. .11:33 pirn.
TESirKRATUBK AT EACH HOUR,
'.HI 01 ml 111 !! II J I :U
7BI 831 S5I87I 89 1 00 1 01 1 931
0ST AND POUND
FQt'Nl-'An eaiy wa t puld a ki-Httou S-
curu a iopy of lati iii-xse suxnjnsr Iccaort I
Oat4 pubilahetl ire by too Fubllc Ladsar. Qs t I
ll 4040 -kuui wc fra giJiia, vuuw
Some of today's popular sport at
ONLY SMALL PART
OF SECOND TO SEE
PATROL SERVICE
Bit of Fighting Tenth to Be
;Sent to Big Bend
District
PLAN COMPANY POSTS
CHIHUAHUA CITY, July 12.
Fighting that began yesterday between
Carrnnza and Villistas at Ccrro Blanco,
south of Parral, was in progress today,
according to official reports received
here.
General Trcvino was notified that
many of the Villa bandits had been
killed.
EI, PASO. July 12. Only a sllco of the
gallant 2d Regiment of Philadelphia and
a bit of the fighting 10th, of Greensburg,
will bo dispatched today to the Big Bend
district of western Texas, toward which
Pancho Villa's ever-growing army of
bandits Is reported to be marching.
One battalion from each regiment will
entrain so mo time today for the desolate
region, which will see tho first nctual border
service to be dono by Pennsylvania guards
men. The 2d Battalion,' commanded by
JIaJor John Handy Hall, assistant United
States District Attorney, was the choice of
Cojonel Turner, of tho 2d Regiment, who
will not accompany tho expedition. The
10th Regiment's battalion to go has not
been designated,
One thousand rounds of ammunition per
man were Issued today to the battalions.
It is Interesting to note that the first puni
tive expedition carried loo rounds per man.
The battalions will detrain at or near
Elplno, 230 miles southeast of El Paso, and
will scatter In company posts over a wide
range of territory, rugged and desert-like,
Some of the detachments will be transported
over land In motortrucks -10, GO and 60
miles to their stations.
"WATCH FOR VILIiA."
Colonel Joseph A. Gaston, of the 6th
United States Cavalry, with headquarters
at Marfa, will direct the worlrvof the two
battalions. This duty may be summed up
In six words;
"Watch for Villa, or anybody else."
The decision to send only one battalion
from each regiment was. reached only after
a long conference which lasted until near
midnight. The original order from General
Funston. to General Clement was, for two
regiments. This later was changed to two
battalions. The conference was attended
by Generals Clement, Bell jind Price, and
Colonels Turner and Coulter.
Philadelphia captains In the 2d Battalion
are Captain Ruth, Company 13; Captain
Morrison, Company F; Captain Rowland.
Company G, and Captain Lockhart, Com
pany II. Battalion Btaff officers to accom
pany the force are Lieutenant Kejlnian,
Adjutant, and Lieutenant Southall, Quar
termaster and Commissary. One Mexican
officer will bo added.
Besides ammunition, the detachment will
carry complete equipment The 2d Regi
ment also wai Issued tropical tents, for of
ficers and squad tents, all dun colored. No
white cam as will be carried.
The utmost disappointment relgnfd in the
camp of the -'d Regiment today as the b.it-
CeaUaocd ca l'uio Xm Cclmaa ac
Starr Garden Recreation Centre.
INFANT PLAGUE
GERM ISOLATED
IN LONG SEARC
Expected to Be of Vast Aid
in Combating Epi
demic 1442 CASES IN NEW YORK
SEW YORK. July 12. Tho city health
department announced today that success
had been attained In tho long effort to
Isolato the germ of Infantllo paralysis. This
Is expected to provo of vast aid in com-V
bating tho epidemic now raging In this city,
city.
Tho Isolation of tho germ of poliomyelitis,
the scientific natno for Infantllo paralysis,
has been sought for many years. The an
nouncement that It hnd been Isolated came
unexpectedly. The health officials gavo no
details, saying that these would bo made
Known Thursday night.
Tho dlseaso continues Its ravages, 1 C 1
now cases being lecorded in tho 24 hours
from 10 a. m. Tuesday to 10 n. m. today.
Theso increased the total to 1442, or nearly
three-fifths of the total number recorded
during the entire period of tho epidemic
In 1007.
Of tho new cases announced today 131
are In Brooklyn, 12 In Manhattan, IS in
Queens, 5 In Richmond and 1 In the Bronx.
Tho now cases announced Tuesday num
bered 195, today's figures showing a de
crease of 31.
y The number of deaths In Brooklyn Bhowed
a decrease today, IS being recorded, as
against 20 yesterday.
BABY PLAGUE CASK FOUND
IN SCUANTOX; BUARD HOUSE
18-Months-Old Boy First Victim in
Section Police on Watch
SCRANTOX Pa., July 12. A well-developed
case of Infantile paralysis, the first
reported hero since the New York epidemic
commenced to attract nation-wide attention,
uas discovered in West Scrantou last night,
Harry Naso, 18 months old, being the
victim.
The health authorities immediately placed
the -Naso homo under absolute quarantine.
Police ofllcers are on guard at the house,
permitting nq one to enter or leave, except
the attending physician.
Director of Public' Safety F, K. Derby
has called a conference of the physicians of
the city for tonight to discuss tho situation.
The Naso child, resident of a block where
75 children are living, may be transferred
to the City Hospital for Contagious Dis
eases on East Mountain.
INFANTILE PARALYSIS THEME OF
GENERAL MEDICAL DISCUSSION
Philadelphia Physicians Will Consider
Disease From Every Known Angle
Dr. Charles K. Mills. will lead the discus
sion on Infantile paralysis at tho meeting
of physicians from all parts of the olty
to be held at the College of Fbyslcahs. 2 2d
street above Chestnut tomorrdw night, on
the invitation of Director Krusen and the
County Medical Society and the Philadel
phia Pediatric Society, for the express pur
pose of Instituting prevntive measures
to prevent the disease from gaining a foot
hold In Philadelphia.
Dr. James H McK.ee will open the dls
CatlawJ sa l'aje Xwo CsIusulXIuc
, ..".'O
..rtViiw... v. '(hH-Jt wjru4Uu4
HEAT GRIPS CITY;
ONE INFANT DIES;
2 MEN OVERCOME
No Relief in Sight for Phila
delphia, Says the
Forecaster
HUMIDITY SHOWS DROP
Temperature
Today Yesterday
7 a. m 77 74
8 a. m 78 75
9 a. m 83 78
10 a. m 85 80
11 a. m 87 82
Noon 89 85
1 p. m 89 87
1 p. m 89 87,
2 p. m 90 , 88
. .it p.,jn. ...,.... 3L fXiJ 88 ., - , .
Ono death and two prostrations today
wero duo to the heat wave which has en
gulfed tho city. '
No relief is promised by the forecaster,
who predicts that tho warm weather will
contlnuo tonight and tomorrow, with high
humidity.
Ksther Doitgl.i&s, threo months old, a
ncgress, died at her heme, 1924 Hllsworth
titicct, this afternoon. She suffered In
tensely during the night. Tho child's pa
rents allowed her to sleep outdoors In tho
hopo that n faint hreczo, which swept
through the neighborhood might have her.
Jacob Solotnlck, of 131.1 South 6th street,
was overcome at 19th and Pino streets. He
was taken to tho Polyclinic Hospital. His
condition is serious.
An unidentified man was overcome at
Broad and Chestnut streets. Ho was car
ried Into a nearby olllco building and sub
sequently recovered.
Reports from all sections of tfio country
Bhow that Philadelphia today Is one of tho
hottest cities, being exceeded only by
LTampa, Fla. ; Portland, Me. ; Boston and
Galveston.
Down In V Paso the temporaturo was
only 0G at 8 o'clock this morning or 12 de
grees cooler than this city at the same
hour.
At 2 o'clocq the temperaturo In tho Phila
delphia Postofflce roof, 143 feet above the
street, tho temperature was 90. On the
street, was 89. On tho ttreet It was 91
In tho neighborhood of Broad and Chest
nut Btreets. In some sections where the
sun'3 rays wero more Intense It Jumped as
high as 93.
A slight decrease In tho humidity helped
a little. It was 89 per cent, yesterday
while today It Is 87. Even this slight favor
had considerable effect.
Humane drivers, realizing the effect of
the weather on their horses, decreased their
burdens today. Past experience has shown
them that this is real efficiency, Instead of
wasting time. Nevertheless the attendants
at the horse watering stations were kept
busy bathing and sponging the ambitious
steeds that sought to do their best under
the depressing conditions.
"Excursion boats did a big business and
the trolleys bound for cool spots also were
filled to the limit.
Camden was about as hot as this city.
The following wero overcome: Hammond
William's, of 919 Point street; Theodore
Light, of Poughkeepsle. N. Y., and Isaac
Chambers, of 7H Silver street.
All were taken to the Cooper Hospital.
ADMIRAL POND SENT
TO SANTO DOMINGO
He Will Relieve Caperton as
Commander of the Amer
ican Forces
v. , J,
WASHINGTON, July IS. Rear Admiral
Pond was today ordered by (he Niivy De
partment to board the gunboat Dolphin at
Key West, Fla., and proceed to Santo
Domingo to relieve Rear Admiral Caperton
as commander of the American forces there.
Rear Admiral Caperton la to return to
Key West on the Dolphin and prepare to
assume command of the Pacific fleet, euc
jeedlns Rear Admiral Wlnslow,
AMERICAN LEAGUE
CLEVELiftD 1 OOQOOOOO-1 60
tfW YORK, 1st .. G OOOOOOO O-O 60
Sftg'iy and Sidy; Caldwell and Alexander
CHICAGO 1 0000000 0-1 72
BOSTON.lstg O'l 000001 X- 2 82
Russell and Schnlk; Shore and Cady.
ATHLETICS GET BACK INTO
ATHLETICS r h o a c
Lawry, 2b 0 2 2 7 3
Kitig, ss 12 3 3 0
Strunk, lb o 0 12 1 0
Schang.lf 12 2 0 0
Walsh, rf 0 i 2 0 0
Pick, 3b 112 11
Mittcrlinu.cf 0 0 2 0 0
Mvcr,c 0 2 10 0
Hassclbachcr, p.. .. 0 0 0 2 0
Williams, p 0 1110
Totals 3 11 27 IS 4
EMPIRE CITY RACING RESULTS
First race, 3-yenr-olds and up, selling, with $600 added, 1 1-1G
miles Woodward, 111, Taplin, 2 to 1, 1 to 2 and out, won; Sam Mc
Mcokin, 111, Lyke, 6 to 5, 0 to 2 and out, second; Gallopp, 111, Shil
ling, G to 1, S to 5 nnd 3 to 5, third. Time, 1.46 1-5.
W DEUTSCHLAND.VFREE OF. FURTHER U. S.' INSPECTION
WASHINGTON, July 12. Inspector General George Uhler, of
tho Tederal Steamboat Inspection Service, this afternoon denied re
ports that the German submarine Deutschland would be inspected by
his department to see whether she complied with requirements of tho
la Follette seaman's law.
448 FREIGHT CARS ORDERED FOR CARNEGIE STEEL CO.
NEW YORK, July 12. Tho United States Steel corporation has placed an
order for 448 freight cars for tho Carneglo Steel Company. So far as can bo learned
tho order was distributed between tho leading makem, probably tho Pressed Steel
Car Company, tho Standard Steel Car Company and tho American Car and Foundry
Company. Just how tho distribution was mado cannot be ascertained at present.
QUARTER SESSIONS COURT CHANGES CONVENING TIME
During tho summer sessions of Quartor Sessions Court the convenlnu tlmo will
bo changed from 10 o'clock to 0:30 o'clock, except on Fridays, when courtrVlll con
vene at 9 o'clock. This chnnso was announced by Clerk FInherty at tho request of
Judge Rogers, who Is presldlnB In that court for this month's session. The purposo
of tho change Is to expedite tho court business so that an adjournment can be had
without the necessity of taking- a recess at noon. On Fridays tho court will hear
desertion and miscellaneous cases in addition to the regular trial list. The new
convening time goes Into effect tomorrow morning;
JAPAN WILL BUILD FOUR SUPERDREADNOUGHTS
TOKIO, July 12. Four superdreadnoughts aro provided for In a construction
program completed by tho Ministry of Marine today. It calls for a continual
strengthening of tho Japanese navy up to 1923. The program provides for un
expenditure of (125,000,000.
LITTLE HOPE FOR RECOVERY OF MRS. CRICK
Little hope Is entertained for the recovery of Mrs. John C. Brick, mother-in-law
of Dr. J. Chalmers Da Costa, who fell down a flight of stairs at the Da Costa
cottage In North Stenton avenue, Atlantic City. Mrs. Brick Is 70 years old. Her
skull was fractured and her shoulder dislocated. An operation was performed In
an effort to save her life, but because of her advanced age it is feared that the
operation will be of little avail.
FRANCE URGED TO SEIZE ALL OF ITS SHIPS
PATUS, July 12. The Chamber of Deputies has adopted a resolution urging
the Government to Introduce a bill providing- for the requisitioning of the entire
French merchant marine for the duration of the war. Thus far only a limited num
ber of ship3 havo been taken over by the Government. One of the objects sought
by the proposed measure Is the reduction of freight carrying charges, which is one
of tho causes of tho "high cost of living.
TURKISH POSITIONS CAPTURED BY RUSSIANS
PBTROORAD, July 12, "In the direction ot Balliurt," says an official state
ment, "during the night of July 9 our scouts succeeded In securing- a height and
took possession of a Turkish machine gun after having; killed nil the gunners.
Further south we captured by assault most powerfully organized, Turkish positions,
which we consolidated. We took prisoner 30 officers and 350 men. In tho direction
of Dlarbekr, in the region of the Boynukova Valley, our advapco guard easily re
pelled a Turkish offensive, taking- prisoners and booty."
4000 ROOKIES EXPECTED TODAY AT PLATTSBURG
PLATTSBURGG. N. Y., June 12. Everything is ready for the arrival today
of from 3000 to 4000 business men who are enrolled for the July- training camp
here. More than 400 arrived yesterday In advance or the rush. Major General
Leonard Wood is expected to give personal supervision to tho opening of tho
largst training camp ever held In this country. Four regiments aro certain and
a fifth may he necessary. Two special trains brought 150 men. front Detroit and
Clnalnatl The advance crowd of the Boston contingent arrived yesterday They
wore met In Burlington by camp represnetatlves, who assigned them to companies
:
USUAL GAIT J LOSE? SURE!
ST. LOUIS r h o a c
Shotton.li 2 2 4 0 0
Johnston, 3b....... 0 111
Mlllcr.rf 2
Sislcr, lb 1
Pratt, 2b :.... 1
Marsans, cf 1
Hartley, c 1
Lavan, sa 0
Pank,p 0
Tobin.rf 0
2 0 1
1 10 0
2 1 2
1 1 0
2 5 0 0
13 3 1
10 2 0
0 0 0 0
Totals 8 13 27 9
I
AIDED BY TIRPITZ MEN
Urge Renewal of U-Boat Cam
paign Unless U. S. Acts
Against Britain
PRINCE VON BUELOW '
Leading fight to overthrow von
Bcthmann - Hollwcg, tho German
Chancellor.
By CARL W. ACKERMAN
BERLIN, July 12.
Tho overthrow of Chancellor von Beth-mann-IIollweg.
champion of a conciliatory
policy toward thp United States, and the
unloosing of German submarines within
thrco months, was predicted by von Tirpltz
supporters hero today, unless President
Wilson nets ugalnst tho British blockade.
Members of tho conscrvatlvo party and
those favoring annexation of tprrltory
conquered by Germany joined In tho fore
cast. They said the opinion of America
would bo disregarded.
1 A private fcourcc, cloao to. tho .Foreign
Office, mndo this statement tn the United
Press regarding the attempt to unseat
Bethmann-IIollweg at a time when the
war Is approaching a crisis:
Unless America does something
against England within the next three
months there will be a bitter fight
against the Chancellor. Ono cannot tell
whether ho will bo able to hold his
own against such opposition. The
futuro of German-American relations
depends on America,
tjesplto this political drlvo against the
man who stood out against a break with
the 'United States In tho Lusltnnla crisis,
Americans hero believe Bethmann-IIollwee
will ngain emerge triumphant. They feel
certain that If the chancellor appealed to
tho public for a decision he would be sup
ported. The fight to oust the Chancellor, tho be
ginning of which was cabled by your cor
respondent a few weeks ago, has now
grown to such proportions that It over
shadows In Interest the Allied offensive.
The attacks on the Chancellor have grad
ually grown bolder slnco the appearance of
Prince Buelow's book, "Deutsche" Polltlk,"
because this book is believed to bo the
opening of Buelow's campaign to oust the,
Chancellor and step back In the position
he occupied until succeeded by Bethmann
IIollweg In 1909.
The movement has grown moro force
ful since the German answer to President
Wilson's ultimatum was sent. The Con
servatives accepted the German note as
containing a conditional clause and they
have beer) waiting to see what steps the
United States would take against Kngland.
Within the past few days I have dis
cussed the situation with leaders of several
parties in tho Itelchstag. A national
liberal member of the Reichstag, who was
formerly a supporter of von Tlrpltz and
the von Tlrpltz submarine policies, said
that he hoped Buelow's success shows that
the opposition to America Is not dead.
HUGHES ANP WILSON.
"Who is going to be your next President
Wilson or Hughes?" lie Obked, and then,
without waiting for an answer, continued;
"If it Is Hughes he can bo no worse than
Wilson. The worst he can do Is to xleclara
war on Germany and certainly that would
be preferable to tho present American
neutrality.
"If this should happen every one In our
navy would shout and throw up hi hat, for
It would mean unlimited sea war against
Kngland. Our present navy Is held in a
net of notes. .
"What 'do you think the United Slates
could do? You could not raise an army
to help the Allies. You could confiscate our
ships In American ports, but If you tried
to use them to carry supplier and munitions
to the Allies we would sink them.
"Carrylns on an unlimited eubmaHna
war we could sink 600,000 tons of shipping
monthly, destroy tho ontlro merchant fleets
of the leading Powers, paralyze Kngland
and win th war Then we would start all
over, build merchantmen faster than any
nation and regain our position as a leading
oonunnreial power."
FIGHT FRANCHISE REFORMS,
l?rlnd of the Chancellor still hope that
PrsWM Wilson W01 take a strong stand
against England, thereby greatly strength
eijjta? Rethmann-Hollweg's position. At
preAnt the campaign against the Chan
cellor U oloMly connected with Internal
politics ot tbe conservatives and the bis;
land owners. The latter are fighting Beth-raann-Hollweg
because he. promised tht
people, on behalf of the Kalwr th enact
meat of frasabb reforms alter the war.
' Th conservatives, mure tactful, ar
ftttempUog t WJke political capital oui of
the food situation.
It U one of tb straoee developments ot
tht, situation Out the Sodattsta, u tba
present GDotKvn;y, are the Government
PAi ratgortenv,
