warm to- ^ ^ ^FfOtlt PtBZM to HoftlB
morrow moderate M/V H>Ak .<^L jfl Ay^ / J^BLfV ? /A^ VTU ?^
O^ilr tPmpITTMIT ^5TS1fi ffi
*^br'report on page 16. ____, ^6^4 |>V / "^ W4 ^^/VVW '
- I ^ V I > Z^^J r / Sworn Hit Clrnlittn, Moatk of Jan,
CLOSING NEW YORK STOCKS PAGE 10. N- \mS WW. Dally Awraw. TM*?I BaaBay, SU?.
No. 20,377: ~ WASHINGTON, D. C., WEDNESDAY, JULY 52. 1916-TWENTY PAGES. ONE CENT. .
SilELK
TO ME BACK E000
Other Undersea Craft to Relieve
Shortage in Germany
and Austria.
$50,000 OFFERED IN VAIN
FOR PASSAGE ON VESSEL
Tug Timmins Believed to Be Preparing
for Trip to Cape to Bring
in the Eremen.
BALTIMORE, July 12.?Koelintr secure
in their belief that the State Department
at Washington will sustain
the findings of the Treasury and Navy
officials that the Deutsehland is a merchant
ship and therefore entitled to all
the privileges due to a belligerentowned
freighter under international
law, the agents of the super-submersible
today went ahead with their plans
for disposing of the vessel's cargo and
preparations for the return voyage.
It is known that the Deutsehland will
take aboard a cargo of rubber and
nickel. Heiv^captain, in his declaration
to the local customs officers, said he expected
to sail "within ten days."
Already there is discussion concerning
the return cargoes for other under-water
liners which are expected to follow the
Deutsehland to American shores. These
vessels, it was reliably stated, will carry
back the most essential foodstuffs that
'Jermany and Austria-Hungary need,
'"'offee was specifically named as one of
the commodities.
Offered $50,000 for Passage.
It was also declared that the Bremen,
constructed by the same company that
;ui!t the Deutsehland and reported from
Berlin as about to sail, will carry drugs
.hat are much needed in this country
.nrl which cannot be obtained from any
?ther than German sources.
The North German Lloyd has received
cm persons in all parts of the country
Tors running: as high as $50,000 for the
i vilege of taking passage on the subii
ine on her return trip.
We have had letters from some per n~."
said a representative of the com.
ny today, "who said that they would
y any price we wanted. There was
> $50,000 offer, several of $10,000 ar.d j
. tually scores running frorp $1,000 to i
?no. These we have had to refuse,
irly all of them came from Americans,
re are. of course, thousands of Ger-1
ins in, this country who would like to
t back to their native land, but no pas-j
.igers will be carried."
May Finish Unloading Tonight.
The unloading of the Deutschland was
rein*" hastened today and may be cornrleted
tonight. Included in the cargo
entered at the customhouse is a quantify
of scrap iron which it was necessary
to bring as ballast. The space this ocupied
will be replaced with nickel on
lb* return voyage.
The fact that the tug Thomas F. Timmins
went into drydock today for repairs
gave rise to rumors that she was
getting ready to return to the Virginia
capes to convoy into the Chesapeake
as she did the Deutschland the
submarine Bremen, which is reported
on her way. If the local agents have
any knowledge of the date the Bremen
is expected they are keeping the se-l
cret closely guarded. It was thought j
oil iu? omtrx imnu nuii mi tug s ur?i j
duly would be to escort the Deutsch- !
land back to the capes. It was inti- !
irated today at the North German
Lloyd offices that the Deutschland might
rep anchor several days at Norfolk
and wait for the most favorable opportunity
to slip by enemy cruisers
which may be waiting for her.
Much Rubber and Nickel
in German Agents' Hands,
Subject of British Query
Inasmuch as rubber and nickel are
being imported to the United States
under private agreements by the purchasers
that they shall not reach the
central powers. British authorities are
beginning to investigate how the larVe
^quantity of those materials piled up at
the Deutschland's pier got into the
hands of German agents.
The United States government is no
party to such agreements, but officials
point out that the steel mills
which supply materials for guns and
armor for the army and navy may be
affected by the outcome.
Practically all the nickel now being
used here po meg from Canada, and
practically all the rubber comes by way
of i-ondon in British ships.
Agreements Affect TJ. S. Supply.
While the agreements referred to are
not official, inasmuch as the State
Department *is no party to them, the
United States government would, of
course, suffer from their cancellation
because the great steel mills which
supply the government with raw material
for its guns apd armor would
be unable to secure any further supplies,
if th*- privilege were withdrawn.
Practically the same conditions apply
as to rubber: only by similar private
arrangements made between the
great rubber manufacturing concerns
of the country and British agents can
adequate supplie:- of that oommoditv
!?e bad from South America Most of
th" rubber comes to the United States
via IyOndon, arid r.earl;. all of it is
t: a iK-uort'.o ir. British bottoms A condition
imposed upon thr British slipo
. in the South American trade
1* that none of the rubber aha!! b<?<a:.di'-#l
for American order except
jiwv compliance of the manufacturers
i 1 t ratio agr^mentj}.
rlo American Ships Available.
A there art- practically no American
th available for thi. trad*-, a with
i of t ic freight privilege by ? >-t?
H' * *.? would < reate serious die-order
in the American rubber trade.
It i., r.' < v. u that ?!: - British authc.u'i.avc
*r .f > <! if position to refr.ou
from iiifii'-tin^ injury up??o
A ? i r. | i:s*r'y :n .'.!:< ! the co??r"
. ' ' ii of * : i- V. *1 . rid rubber enter
fn a thousand places. but the intimation
h;?' be; n pi.';. convey*-.i that some
tu< h action may be necessary if there
Is to be a fur. her accumulation of carnoes
for German submarines composed
of materials intended solely for the
military use of the central powers U.
S. May Withhold News
of the Time of Sailing
of Liner Deuischland
it news of the departure of the. GerL
man -underwater liner. DeuUchland can
Ik
be regarded as military information of j
value to Germany's enemies, the United
States, in the interest of neutrality, will
take Steps to prevent such information*,
reaching" them.
| Stare Department officials today admitted
they were considering the question
of how to protect the government's
neutrality in the matter.
The official report of the naval and
customs officers who inspected the submarine
and reported she is an unarmed
I merchant ship, probably will be made
1 public by the State Department tomorrow.
it already has been established to
the satisfaction the government that
the Deutschland s crew is purely a merchant
one.
ClIIZEflfHOW
TO AVERTSCOURGE
| Suggestions by Commission|
ers Regarding Infantile Paralysis
Again Made.
Be cool, but cautious.
This sinr.s up the attitude of
the District Commissioners on
the infantile paralysis situation.
They do not want the populace
of the capital to become unduly
excited or alarmed over the possible
appearance of the disease
here, neither do they want any
citizen to become careless in observing
the precautionary methods
that might head off an epidemic
of the scourge.
Hysteria over the situation will not
be developed if the Commissioners can
prevent it. They realize the community
will be better able to protect
itself by remaining calm. There are
no cases of the disease fin the District
and, in the opinion of local health authorities,
Washington may escape the
malady altogether, if citizens will observe
strictly some of the suggestions
contained in the proclamation issued by
the Commissioners yesterday.
One Important Requisite.
One of these suggestions was that
visits from persons in New York be
discouraged and that report be made
to the health department of the arrival
from New York of any child under
sixteen years of age. Indicating that
the public is desirous of co-operating
with the municipal authorities in the
matter, approximately a dozen communications
reporting recent arrivals
here from New York were received by
the health department in this morning's
mail. It Is the intention of the depart|
rnent to look up the visitors and ascertain
if possible whether they have been
exposed to infection in New York.
Dr. William C. Fowler, head of the
contagious disease service of the
health department, will go to New
York tomorrow to attend a conference
of health experts on measures for the
prevention and spread of the disease.
It is believed the recommendations of
the conference will be similar to those
contained in the warning sent out yes[
terday by the Commissioners.
Work of Police Department.
The police department expects to begin
tomorrow- a house-to-house distribution
of the proclamation containing
; the seventeen suggestions of the health
j department for keeping Washington
I free from the disease.
| Washington has a big city-cleaning
land fly-swatting job ahead of it, but
' its recompense, in the opinion of the
[Commissioners, will be escape from a
scourge that otherwise might lay a
j heavy death toll upon the city's infant
population.
imwiMiHn
I'lIWEMC
Appeal to Congress for $135,000 for
support of the public heal service's
campaign against infantile paralysis
epidemic In New York and to prevent
its spread to other states was made by
Secretary McAdoo of the Treasury De1
partment late yesterday afternoon.
J Congress Is urged to make the money
available immediately.
Of the sum asked for $50,000 is to
be used fa*- the expenses of surgeons
I of the service in New York, and "Hhe
* remainder to prevent interstate spread
of the disease. The estimate of the
amount needed was reached after several
conferences between officers of
the public health service and Assistant
Secretary Newton, and was approved
bv President Wilson.
Estimate of the Cost.
Dr. W. C. Rucker, who has been in
artive charge of the fight against the
epidemic, believes it will cost about
! $10,000 a month for the work of the
j service a'on'*. A bill already has been
introduced by Representative Griffin
of New York for a one-hundred-thou'
sand-dollar appropriation.
S'M-retary McAdoo has offered the as- i
j <-sstanc?- of the public health service I
in the authorities of New York city
th'-ir efforts to suppress the disease, '
and as a result seven public health sur- !
; neons are co-operating with the offl- j
; cials there.
There is already an appropriation of ;
. ?ofir?Mi for preventing the spread of!
. !, i f i i > n i e diseases, but this fund O. U.v._ I
ir?-d by law to certain specific diseases,
m;s ice]y, cholera, yellow fever, .smallpox,
r vphoirl fever, plague and traoho|
;i < ?j account of t hin limitation it
i va* necessary to a^k Congress for the
j <-[,? via> appropriation.
| A statement sanctioned by Secretary
; M' Adoo says:
| Whi!'- the epidemic of infantile paralysis
has beer: most acute thus far in ;
New York city, it is known to be
-i,r. .-.ding rapidly, and it is believed
that the entire $S5,000 will be necessary
for the use of the public health service
;n taking such steps as are necessary
r>1 rI.. < k and control this insidious epidemic
It is estimated that thirteen additional
assistant surgeons will be re- <
*.o look after the interstate
.vork The cost of handling the notifljcniioti
and inspection work is very j
! heavy, and the public health service
cupsniers the national aspect of the sat-:
nation serious. The Secretary has <11- j
reetr-d the service to make all possible!
efforts to check the spread of the dis? j
President Wilson yesterday signed !
the Siege! resolution permitting the
use of hospital facilities at the Klliig
Island immigration station for the
New York victims of infantile paralysis.
The Department of Labor has taken
official action in response to this resolution.
A . . - . .i As.
NO ALARM IS FELT
AT THEBPIDEMIC
"Prevention Without Panic'' Is
Aim of U. S. Public
Health Service.
EXPERTS IN CONFERENCE
ON INFANTILE PARALYSIS
Dr. Frost Says Cases Elsewhere in
the Nation Cannot Be Traced
to New York.
Further important measures for the
prevention of the spread to other communities
of the infantile paralysis epidemic
in New York are to be taken immediately
by the public health service
as a result of a conference this morning
between I>r. William C. Rucker, assistant
surgeon general, who has himself
been investigating the epidemic in
New York; Passed Assistant Surgeon
Wade H. Frost, the poliomyelitis expert
of the department, who has been
summoned from Cincinnati, and Dr. E.
A. Sweet, who is in general charge of
the bureau's campaign for prevention.
"Prevention without panic" is the
terse summary of the public health
service's concern about the spread of
the epidemic, made today by Dr. Rucker.
He made it clear that the service is
not "alarmed," but that it is "concerned"
and making every effort to prevent
the spread of the contagion on account
of the unprecedented sweep of the disease
in New York. He said that every
possible effort is being made by the
public health service not only to prevent
the epidemic jumping to other localities,
but for the investigators of the
service to learn all they can about this
disease, which has for many years been
a baffling mystery.
That money is greatly needed for the
service to perform its most valuable
function in prevention is emphasized by I
Dr. Rucker. who points out that even
with the $135,000 asked from Congress 1
v>y octrciarj jmcauoo oiuy *io,vvv wiui
he available for the very important
work of interstate prevention work. '
-On Way to Help New York. j
The hopeful view of the service is 1
expressed by Dr. Frost, who is on his j
way to give expert advice in handling
the New York situation. "While we '
feel spre that we are going to have f
epidemics in other localities, we are ,
confident that they will be relatively 1
few and that we will be able to hold t
them to narrow limits and prevent |
widespread infection." i
Ah evidence of good cause for such t
view Dr. Frost points out that Chicago, s
a railroad center in direct rail communication
with other large places that
have had epidemics, has always escaped.
He said that because the public
health service is receiving daily re- 1
ports from many places of cases of infantile
paralysis this is only because
the health authorities have been specially
asked to report each case, and not
because there is any unusual widespread
general sweep of the disease.
"There are sporadic cases of poliomyelitis
at all times in all parts of the
country," he said, "and it is not fair at
this time to trace these scattered cases
to a New York origin."
Nation-wide caution and general observance
of suggestions for precautionary
measures, with isolation of any sporadic
cases, will ease the situation wonderfully,
he thinks, and he points to this wider
education of the public as one of the most
hopeful aspects of the epidemc. Dr.
Frost and Dr. Hucker both emphasize
the other hopeful fact that the effects
of poliomyelitis?the paralysis and
contractions?have during the last ten
years been found to be remediable.
Before the disease was as well known
as It is today such cases of paralysis
and contractions were considered hopeless.
In the last decade it has he?n
found that with proper surgical treatment
the./ gradually can be Improved, !
even after several years, and these au- ]
thorities advise all victims to continue '
treatment, with the confident assurance
that such afflictions can be corrected. J
Dr. Sweet's Recommendations. l
<
Recommendations prepared by Dr. E.
A. Sweet, assistant to Dr. Rucker, which <
are being given widespread publicity
through health officials in all parts of the .
United States, covering what communi
ties can do to prevent an epidemic of in- '
fantile paralysis and what should be done '
in individual cases when a victim has
been discovered, are as follows:
"To control the present epidemic of infantile
paralysis, the chain of infection
between persons harboring germs of the '
disease and the well members of the community
should be broken. Infantile
paralysis is probably caused by a very
minute organism found in the nasal,
mouth and bowel discharges of those who
have the disease or who are carriers of
the germ without themselves suffering
from the ailment. All of the steps In the .
spread of the infection are not known, .
but if this germ can be prevented from
passing from the infected to the well person
the disease will cease.
"Infantile paralysis is not a disease of.
recent origin. Sporadic or scattered cases
have occurred throughout the country for
many years, but it is only during the last
decade that the infection has assumed
epidemic proportions in the United States, i
The present epidemic in New York city,
on account of its magnitude and viru- 1
lence, has awakened the residents of many ^
communities to the danger of the impor- i
tation of the disease into their own midst.
This danger is real, but if due precautions
are exercised it is believed that the epi- \
demic will subside.
Actual Control 'for Officials. 1
"The actual control of the present enl
demic must be left to the city, state and
federal health authorities. These or- '
ganlzations will properly quarantine and
care for affected persons, prescribe sani- [
tary measures and limit as may be necessary
the travel of individuals in order
to protect neighboring districts from the !
infection. Individuals and communities, j i
however, can do much toward their own |
IMrotection. i i
Poliomyelitis is probably spread di- i ]
rectly or indirectly, through the medium I <
of infective secretions. Account must, 11
therefore, be taken by communities of ]
every means by which such secretions 1
are disseminated. Promiscuous expectora- <
tion should be controlled. The common 1
drinking cup affords a method for the i
interchange of material of this nature 1
and should, therefore, be abolished. Rigid
cleanliness of glasses and utensils at
soda fountains, in saloons and other <
public places should be enforced. Flies, '
roaches and other vermin, by coming in
contact with infective secretions, may <
possibly convey them to our food and 1
thus directly bring about the development ]
of disease Therefore, eliminate insects.
"Street and house dust bear a definite 1
*
.18L \)
' ' 4 <*
.A* "W
/-yam
< X
elation to the spread of many infections,
ind it is not unreasonable to presume
:hat they may be a factor in the dissemination
of infantile paralysis. Main:ain
strict cleanliness of streets, yards
md alleys in order to prevent the breedng
of insects and other vermin. See
hat all garbage and waste are properly
rared for and collected at regular and
'requent intervals.
"Guard all food supplies, especially
nilk and other perishable products. Digestive
troubles of children arising from
:he ingestion of food of questionable
juality may lower resistance. Assemblies
of children in infected localities are
o be discouraged, if not actually forbidden.
While the above measures are
n a sense general, and applicable to
nany epidemic diseases, their importance
should not be overlooked."
Individual Preventive Measures.
Individual preventive measures are
:hus summarized:
"Summon a physician at once and imnediately
notify the health officer of
.he presence of the disease. If the disease
is present in the community medcal
aid should be sought whenever a
;hild is sick, no matter how light* the
llness; many cases of infantile paralysis
begin with a slight indisposition.
Should the illness prove to be infan:ile
paralysis isolate the patient, place
i competent person in charge and reluce
all communication with the sick
oom to a minimum.
"Hospital care is preferable, not only
Tor the child, but in order to better
safeguard against the spread of the
lisease. The sick room should be well
ventilated and screened. Nasal and
uouth secretions should be received
n cloths, placed in a paper bag and
turned. The Hothing of the child, the
^ed linen and the excretions should be
lisinfected in the same manner as for
yphoid fever?that is, by boiling, the
long-continued application of 5 per cent I
"acholic, or other well recognized dis- I
nfectant. The same is true for dishes |
ind drinking vessels.
"Nurses should exercise the same precautions
as regards cleanliness of
hands in caring for infantile paralysis
patients as for those afflicted with
3ther infectious diseases.
"A child may convey the disease to
others even after a lapse of several
weeks. For this reason quarantine ]
should be maintained for a consider- |
ible period, usually from six to eight
weeks, and the above precautions
should he adhered to during this time.
Disinsection of the room following recovery
Is advisable."
C. N. lisll :
CAMPAIGN TREASURER j
His Appointment Announced Today i
at Hughes Headquarters?F. W. J
Upham Western Representative. IJ
i i
NEW YORK, July 12.?Cornelius N. j
Miss will be the next treasurer of the
republican national committee. This
was officially announced today at the
headquarters of Charles E. Hughes.
Mr. Bliss, who is a New York dry
goods commission merchant, is the son
?f the late Cornelius* N. Bliss, who
formerly was treasurer of the national :
committee. Fred W. Upham of Chicago !
was named as the western representative
of Treasurer Bliss. |
Senator Warren G. Harding, chairman '
jf the notification committee, told Mr. j
Hughes, who came to New York from j
his summer home at Bridgehampton I
this morning, that July 31 was agree- |
*ble to the notification committee as a !
late for the notification ceremony.
The nominee held a series of impor- <
tant conferences today. First he had a
long talk with Chairman*W. R. Willcox I
of the national committee, discussing j
with him plans for the western cam- i
[>aign. Then he saw Edward A. Thurs- I 1
ton, chairman of the republican state I ,
committee of Massachusetts; William ,
Miller Collier, formerly minister to !
Spain, and W. G. Norton, vice presi- j 1
Sent of the Hughes Alliance of Chicago, j i
Later in the da$' he had appointments j
with Gifford Finchot, Senator Penrose j r
>f Pennsylvania and William Hale
rhompson, mayor of Chicago. i
It was also announced today that the 1
campaign committee will assemble in t
Sew York July 20, and will meet Mr. j
Hughes on that date.
Mr. Hughes will return to Bridge- 1
lampton tomorrow afternoon.
-*1
A. \,jJ
, <^4
DAY IN CONGRESS.
Sfnate:
Met at 11 a.m. <
Adopted motion to meet daily
from 10 a.m. until 6:30 p.m. until
further arrangements are made.
Resumed discussion of the
agricultural appropriation bill.
IlOIINfl i
Met at 11 a.m.
Considered calendar Wednesday
business.
Considered K'-rn - GfTlicuddy
workmen's compensation hill. ,
Agreed to consider the Rucker *
corrupt practices campaign pub- '
licity bill after disposition to- 1
morrow of general darn bill for '
regulating waterpower. 1
DISTRICT IN CONGRESS. ;
i
Senate:
: A 'favorable report on the nomi
nation 01 vniver t. wewman to oe
Commissioner of the District was
ordered by the Senate District '
committee.
Work ori the District appropriation
bill was resumed by the Senate
subcommittee in charge.
I A bill authorizing the District
Commissioners to make arrangements
with the Maryland authorities
to supply residents of Mary- ;
land near the District boundary
with water from the District's !
water system was introduced by
Senator Smith of Maryland.
CONGRESS MAY ADJOURN
BEFORE SEPTEMBER 1
Democratic and Republican Steering
Committees Agree to Legislative
Program.
Democratic and republican steering
committees of the Senate reached an
igreement today on a legislative program
that gives promise of adjournnent
of Congress before September 1.
Senate leaders of both parties also
tgreed to the program.
Sbme senators said following the con'erenee
that, the program could be concluded
by August 1, but the majority
egarded this.as altogether too optirnis- (
ic a view to take of the situation. One
Assurance given by the republicans was
hat there would be no filibuster on
other the shipping or'revenue legislaion.
The democrats submitted to the re>ublicans
the following imperative program,
which has been agreed to.
No Objection by Republicans. I
Army and navy and other appropria- a
ion bills, conference reports, the reve- 1 r
lue. shipping and corrupt practices I r
Tills. To the passage of this program
)bjection. In a secondary list of bills jhe
democrats included the child labor, '
vorkmen's compensation and immlgra- J s
ion bills, but they were left for fur- J
her conference and eventually may be i
jostponed until the winter session. i
The conferees also agreed to hold!1"1
ong daily sessions, from 10 in the \u
norning to 6:30 o'clock in the evening. *
The Senate later ratified this plan. 'S
?
MEETS NEXT IN B3ST0N. Is
j?
Spirited Election of Officers "Marks id
Session of Elks' Convention.
j/aI.TIMORE. July 12 ?Edward O. 'j
RlKhtor of New Orleans was yesterday ^
elected grand exalted ruler of the v
Benevolent and Protective Order of
Elks over Lloyd Maxwell of Marshall'own,
Iowa, at the annual convention
>f the order in session here this week. n
rhe contest was declared by old timers
imong the delegates to have been the .
lottest in the history of the organiza:ion.
Boston was selected for hext p
/ear's convention. T
The other officers were elected as s
'ollows: fj
Esteemed leading knight, Morris g
^v
n j
v
^f?rT
^ ,^1 ^ ^ - | ^
' .
/ ' c
/ 1
a
t
J
s
e
? t
O'Dell, Camden, N. J.; esteemed loyal *
knight, K. R. Ingersoll, Seattle, Wash.; 1
esteemed lecturing knight, James M. j
Shanley, Oakland, Cal.; grand secre
tary, Fred C. Robinson, Dubuque, Iowa;
grand treasurer, Charles A. White, t
C'hifaeo' errand tiler Oliver t
Oklahoma City, Okla., and grand trustee,
George Locke, Rogers, Ark. s
BREAD INSTEAD OF BULLETS. \
M>. Randall's Suggestion for Cam- {
paign Against Mexican Bandits. j
Bre d. and not bullets, should be used
in the campaign against the Mexican bandits
and insurgents, according to Representative
Randall of California. He introduced
today a resolution providing for
the appropriation of $2,000,000 to be used
n 'purchasing food and clothing for destitute
Mexicans.
The money would be expended under
he direction of the Secretary of State.
?n the theory that the straightest road
o a Mexican's loyalty is through his digestive
apparatus.
MR. NEWMAN UNOPPOSED.
Committee Orders Favorable Report
on Commissioner's Nomination.
The nomination of Oliver P. Newman
:o succeed himself as District Comnissioner
was ordered favorably reported
to the Senate today by the Senite
District committee. No meeting
)f the committee was held, but Senaor
John Walter Smith, chairman, made <3
. ? "?? ? ??<= IIV7IU1- [
lation, and Mr. Newman was unop>osed.
No opposition of any kind or
n any quarter to the confirmation of
he nomination had developed, and
senator Smith considered that it was ?
ustifiable to proceed with the matter
without further delay. n
Mr. Newman's nomination was sent v
o the Senate last week. It is expect- t
d confirmation will follow almost im- S
nediately. a
Want Duty on Coal Tar Medicines. "
To encourage, upbuilding of domestic a
nanufacture of coal tar medicinal prod- ^
jets, such as asperin and phenacitin, the d
National Association of Manufacturers of ^
iledicinal Products filed a petition today ?
vith the Senate finance committee urging jm
amendment to the revenue bill which ^
vould make such products, as well as ^
lyestuffs, dutiable. S
ENGLISH PORT SHELLED \
BY GERMAN SUBMARINE
d
tl
3ne Woman Reported to Have Been
Killed at Seaham p
Harbor.
\\
d
LONDON, July 12, 12:45 p. m.?The a
English port of Seaham Harbor was C
ittacked last night by a German subnarlne.
About thirty rounds of shraplel
were fired.
One woman was killed by the bomQ
lardment. One house was struck by a
hell.
The official announcement says:
"At 10:30 o'clock last night a Ger- tl
nan submarine appeared off the small t(
indefended port of vSeaham Harbor in {
he North sea, six miles southeast of In<
lunderland and a coal shipping port.'81
:he approached within a few hundred I tl
ai ds of the town and then opened fire. I tV
iome thirty rounds of shrapnel were1;
ired from a three-inch gun. Twenty!
ounds fell in the direction of Dalton- j eI
ale, a dozen rounds fell in and aboutK*
eaham colliery. i"'
"A woman walking through the col- ?
lery yard was seriously injured and',
ied this morning. One house was in
truck by a shell. No other damage
ras done." dt
? es
m
Paris Wants Belgian Troops.
PARIS. July 12.?The French govern- G
lent has invited King Albert of Belium
to send a contingent of Belgian tQ
roops to take part in the review at tQ
aris on the national holiday July 14. c0
he Belgian contingent will include a in
cjuadron of cavalry, a company of in- su
intry with machine gun sections and f>f
renadiers and a regimental band. ilo
WE GIVEN GLIMPSE
OF W1DEPARK AREA
l/lovie Pictures of Tacoma,
Wash., Exhibited to Citizenship
Convention Delegates.
3THER POINTS OF INTEREST
ARE THROWN ON SCREEN
iepresentative Johnson Serves as
Host and Delivers Address. .
School Superintendent Lectures.
PROGRAM FOR TOMORROW.
10 o'clock?Address, "Civic Preparedness
and Americanization,"
J. M. Berkey, director of special
schools and extension work, Pittsburgh,
Pa.
10:30 o'clock?Address, "Some
of the Problems of Getting
Aliens Into the Night Schools,"
W. M. Ragsdale, chief naturalization
examiner, Pittsburgh. Pa.
11 o'clock?Address, President
Wilson.
11:30 o'clock?Moving picture.
"The Immigrant in America,"
national Americanization committee.
12 o'clock?Address, "What
Portland, Oreg., Is Doing to
Americanize foreigners," L. R.
Alderman, superintendent of
schools, Portland. Oreg.
12:30 o'clock?Address, Secretary
of Labor Wilson.
With Representative Albert Johnson
>f the state of Washington as host, the
lelegates in attendance at the session
oday of the citizenship convention
it the Wilson Normal School were
anvil a it n? uiiuugii me pai KS auu
ther places of interest about Tacoma,
Vash., by means of moving pictures.
Before beginning his lecture, Mr.
ohnson said the district he repreents
contains about 27 per cent forign-born
people. He urged his audience
o endeavor to impress on all people
hat they are of the government and not
mder the government. "So many peo>le
feel that they are under the govirnment,"
he said. "There is no such
hing in the United States, and it ought
o be impressed on all."
The lecturer described the pictures
ihown on the screen, especially those
elating to the stadium schools. The
treat water resources of the state,
glaciers. the National Park, together
vith a race up a mountain side beween
a railroad train and four autonomies,
which was won by the former
md incidentally the engineer captured
t purse of $1,000, were also shown.
Illustrated Talk on "Play Day."
Miss Beatrice Johnson, superintendent
>f schools of Grand Forks, N. D., gave
in illustrated talk on "Play Day" as
:onducted at Larimore, N. D., for the
ichool children. The speaker said the
hildren in North Dakota do not have
iny beautiful scenery, the country beng
almost entirely made up of prairies.
>he told of the farmers and others
'rom miles around taking their chilIren
to attend the "play day" exercises,
-liss Johnson said the greatest good deived
from these "play days" was that
he foreign born children are enabled
o mix and play with the native born,
tnd thus learn more rapidly to speak
he English language.
Pictures of "An American in the Makng,"
showing an immigrant upon his
.rrival in this country and his developnent
after he has become a citizen of
his country, also were shown.
The rest of the morning ession was
levoted to a general discussion of text>ooks.
President to Address Convention.
President Wilson is to be the princi>al
speaker at the session tomorrow
norning. Admission to this meeting
fill be by cards, which are being disributed
at the school building today,
leeretary of Labor Wilson is also to
ddress the delegates tomorrow.
The field service of the bureau of
aturalization is represented at the
itizenship convention by Chief Exminers
James Farreil, whose headuarters
are at Boston; C. O'C. Cowley,
lew York city; T. B. Shoemaker, Philaelphia;
O. T. Moore. Washington, D.
; W. M. Ragsdale, Pittsburgh; M. A.
tinges, Chicago; M. U. Bevington, St.
.ouis; R. S. Coleman, St. Paul; Paul
.ee Ellerbe, Denver: G. A. WLrutchfleld,
an Francisco, and John Speed Smith,
cattle. The following examiners in
harge of substations also are in attendance:
Thompson, Detroit; Doe. l)uiith;
Hazard, Portland, Ureg.; Armtrong.
Salt Lake; Gurnett, Omaha;
ones, Los Angeles; Kerlin, Cleveland,
nd Anthoni, San Antonio, Tex.
Field Officers to Report.
The commissioner of naturalization
irected his field officers to report at
tie bureau for the dual purpose of a j
onference on the administration of
le federal naturalization law and to
fford them an opportunity to particiate
in the deliberations of the citizenhip
convention.
Among the educators from the west
ho are attending the convention as
elegates are Mr. and Mrs. C. C. Alexnde.
of Hibbing. Minn.: Mr. and Mrs.
. C. Tonning of St. Paul, and P. P.
olgroVe of Veroqua, Minn., aJl of
hom are at the Fontanet Courts for
ne week.
AT WORK ON DISTRICT BILL.
enate Subcommittee Resumes Consideration
on Mr. Smith's Return.
The Senate subcommittee in charge of
ie District appropriation. bill got down
? work again on that measure this afteroon.
and hope was expressed that the
jbcommittee would be able to report to
ie full committee some time tomorrow ]
le result of its work. Senator John Wal- 1
r Smith, who has been away for sev- ,
al days owing to illness in his family, 1
turned to Washington today and immeately
called the subcommittee together, !
which he is the chairman.
The subcommittee has been very liberal \
i its treatment of the District and has j
ided many hundreds of thousands of .
>llars to the bill in accordance with
itimates submitted by the District Comissioners,
it was said today.
oes to Succeed Admiral Caperton. \
Rear Admiral Charles?'. Pond left here <
day for Santo Domingo, via Key West. J
succeed Rear Admiral Caperton as
mmander of the American naval forces
Santo Domingo. Admiral Caperton will
icceed Admiral Winslow as commander
the Pacific fleet upon Admiral Winsw's
retirement July 29. <3
*
GERMANS BRING UP
MANY NEW TROOPS
TO OPPOSEBRITISH
Regain Ground in Mametz and
Trones Woods; Are Repulsed
Elsewhere.
TWO ATTACKS AT VERDUN
FAIL BEFORE FRENCH FIRE
Successful Raids Made by French
Forces in the Champagne
and Lorraine.
RESULTS OF STEADY BLOWS
British Have Taken Whole of First
System of German Defenses
Along Eight-Mile Front
on the Somme.
LONDON, July 12, 2 :42 p.m.?
Tile Germans, heavily reinforced,
delivered strong attacks against
the liritish on the Somnte front
last night. They gained ground
in Mametz wood and Trones
wood.
An official announcement issued
here this afternoon says that
all the German attacks were
beaten off except in Mametz and
Trones woods.
"Since the commencement of
the battle the enemy has received
large reinforcements," the announcement
says. "Yesterday
and last night strong hostile attacks
were made against several
points of our new positions. Except
in Mametz wood and Trones
wood, in both of which localities
the Germans regained some
ground, all these attacks were
beaten off, with loss to the
enemy."
"Ruiri hv'Trish Fusiliers.
"Between the main battlefield and
'the sea we have been actively engaged
in bombarding: the enemy's positions
and raiding: his front line. Southeast
of Loos a party of Royal Irish Fusiliers
penetrated the enemy's trenches at a
point where they were strongly held
and remained there for twenty minutes.
during which time heavy fighting
took place in the trenches. Many Germans
were killed. Our casualties were
slight.
"Opposite the Hohenzollern redoubt
two companies of Seaforth Highlanders
forced their way into another portion
of the enemy's trenches after a stiff
fight. Many Germans were killed or
wounded. A hostile machine gun was
destroyed. Several dugouts crowded
Willi I ll<^ c licill.) wcic ouvn^ooiui.j
bombed and some prisoners were taken.
"Several combats in the air took
place July 3 0. as a result of which we
destroyed one German machine, while
one of our own machines was broiight
down by the enemy's gunfire."
Strug-gles for Trones Wood.
Trones wood has been the scene of
some of the hardest fighting on the
British front. After desperate counterattacks
the Germans had gained a
footing there, but yesterday the British
cleaned them out of all but the
northernmost end of the wood. The
new German counter offensive last
night followed.
Although the extent of ground which
has been gained by the British offensive
is not great, there is general satisfaction
in England at the success
attained by the army of Gen. Haig during
the twelve days of fighting, and
the belief exists that the adjusted
positions now occupied will make possible
greater achievements. The capture
of Contalmaison. Mametz and
Trones wood gives the British a line
running almost due east and west, so
that the Germans to the north can be
attacked on the flank when the guns
are brought up for the second phase
in tilt- opciauuiio, i v cue ovum ui cue
river the French are in a position
somewhat similar to the British and
likewise can attack the (lerman dank
south of Belloy and Estrees: For the
moment, however, the two armies are
engaged in preparing: their new positions.
Gains on Eight-Mile Front.
Capture of the whole of the Germans'
first system of defense on a
front of 14,000 yards (nearly eight
miles), after ten days and nights of
continuous fighting, was announced in
yesterday's official report from British
headquarters In France. The number
of prisoners taken exceeds 7.500.
The capture of Hill 97, south of the
Somme. with the farm called La Maisonnette
on the summit, was a particularly
brave piec^ of work on the part
of the French ' After receiving the
signal to attach, the soldiers crossed
four lines of trenches virtually without
pause, but it was then that the greatest
difficulties had to be overcome.
The farm at this point was guarded
by a whole series of barbed-wire intrenchments
defended by mortars, machine
guns, automatic rifles and bomb
throwers. Twice the assaulting forces
penetrated 10 iuc iohu. mcj
cvere thrown back, and when they grot
into the farm itself it was to find
themselves in front of a number of
nachine guns.
A furious hand-to-hand combat follow*
id, ending In a victory for the French.
The extent to which the hill was fortlied
can be Judged by the fact that at
>ne earthwork half way up the slope
leven mitrailleuses in working order
vere captured, while twenty others had
>een destroyed by the French bombardnent.
Attacks at Verchin Fail.
PARIS, July 12, 2:45 p.m.?The Germans
lelivered two attacks last night on a
t
