THE ARIZONA REPUBLICAN
AN INDEPENDENT PROGRESSIVE JOURNAL
TWENTY-SEVENTH YEAS
10 PAGES
PHOENIX, ARIZONA, WEDNESDAY MORNING, JULY 12, 1916
10 PAGES
.VOL. XXVII, NO. 55
SOMA TROOPS ilSEAMP-AMEKANS RETIMIG
7
Two Drown When Auto Plunges Into Salt Below Roosevelt
SAMUEL 10 ISAAC APPEL
LOSE LIVES SATURDAY AI
OE THEM Rill
I
Word was brought to the city yes
terday of the probable death by
drowning of Samuel and Isaac Appel,
of this city, a short distance this side
of Roosevelt last Saturday morning.
In fact, there is no doubt that they
were drowned, though their bodie.)
had not been recovered last nixrht.
But the automobile in which they
had U ft the city was found yester
day morning submerged in Salt' River
nbout ihree miles this side of the
Roosevelt dam.
The road above the point where
the automobile was found is very
narrow and slopes upward toward
a precipitous bank at an ag'e of
about forty-five degrees. It is sup
posed that the men at that " point
turned aide, up the 'nclir.e, and were
precipitated over the bank There
has just been a violent storm and
there was a flood '.n the river
The tracks of the automobile as it
left the road, had been observed ni
Sunday and it was remarked that no
tracks were Feen crming back to the
road. But attention was not riveted
on this phenomenon so that little
wis thought of it until yerterday
morning Harry Effron, a partner of
Sam Appel, reported at the ofiice of
the sheriff that the Appel brothers
were missing.
Deputy Sheriff Murphy, who had
just returned from" Globe, rememler
ed that he had been told of the
curious automobile tracks and had
later seen them. Accordingly a tele
phone message was sent to George
Adams, a son of th? sheriff at Roose
velt, directing him to make an Inves
tigation. He went nut with a party
armed with grappling irons, and ar
riving at the point In the road, they
noticed something that had escaped
previous observation, a torn aatomo-
bile tire. Fishing about in the watr
at the foot of the bluff, the irons
caught the top of the automobile and
t( re it off. But on account of the,
depth of the water, supposed to be
about eighteen feet, a further inves
t'gation of the machine could not bo
made then.
Word was received at the- office of
the sheriff loft night that the recla
mation officials would close the eatei
MANY MEN IN MINE
WHEN GAS EXPLODES I
FRENCH AND BRITISH CONTINUE SUCCESSES
FOCH'S MEN MOVE UP
WHILE BRITISH MAKE
GAINS ALONG SOMME
WHEELING, W. Va., July 11.
An explosion of gas occurred In
the mine of the Hitchman Coa
and Coke Company at Clennd.-le,
I W. Va., near hero late today. ,
On.- hundred and fifty men were
at work at the t'me but all escap-
I ed uninjured, except twelve, who
j weie burned. Mine officials said j
all would recover.
ONE FACT
BUT ALL MAKE
OUT GUILTY
STATE'S ATTORNEY DADY
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
WAl'KEGAN, 111., July 11. "He is
not guilty, nor innocent because of any
one fact but because of the sequence
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
The British gains in the battle of the Somme after ten days continued
fighting over a front of nearly eight miles and include the entire German
first system of defense, sccortiing to the official report forwarded by Gen
eral Haig, the British commander-in-chief on the French front. This ad
vice includes a number of small towns and positions which are considered of
great strategic importance.
At the same time the French army under General Foch has moved
up in the southern side of the Somme and now holds the dominating hills
around Peronne, a town which has been strongly fortified by the Ger
mans and the possession of which they are likely to contest with the ut
most determination.
The British have retaken Contalmaison and are again in control of
nearly the entire extent of Trones wo id and Mametz wood. There has been
desperate fighting in both sectors for several days past.
The French along the Somme carried out some minor detached opera
tions which enabled them to strengthen their position at La Maisonette,
and apparently the French are waiting for the British to straighten out
their line before making the attempt to drive the Germans out of
Peronne.
In this great battle obout 22,000 prisoners have been taken by the Franco-British
forces, of whom the British announce they have captured 7,500.
' In the Verdun sector the Germans unmoved by the attacks north and
iouth of the Somme, have succeeded in gaining a foothold in the Damloup
battery which has been a Done ot contention tor aays past, ana in me
French line the Fumin wood on the right bank of the Meuse. At other
points the Germans are carrying outa strong offensive.
On the Russian front the Stokhod sector is the central point of the Rus
sian advance. The .Germans have brought up strong reinforcements and
artillery to oppose th Russians, who are within twenty miles of Kovel.
In southern Bukowina, Petrograd reports, that considerable enemy
forces have been to flight northwest of Kimpolung. Vienna does not
LEAVES
10
INSPECT III GUARD ITS
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
WASHINGTON, July 11. Major
General Bliss, assistant chief of staff.
left for the border late today to in
spect national guard units. It war
said at the war department that his
trip was for administrative purposes
wholi-ly and did not foreshadow any,
immediate change. Officials are anx
ious to forestall complaints that the
militiamen are not accorded proper
treat ment in the federal service.
General Bliss first will go to Sari
ntonio where he will confer with
f.enetal Funston. Later he will visit
evi ry c amp of !miortance from the.
Gulf to the Pacific Coast.
Pending further developments in
the Mexican situation the order ere-
CALLES ORDER
SENDS SOLDIERS
T0THEIRH1ES
atins the department of New Mexico
and dividing the border patrol so
that the commanders of the south
ern, western and New Mexican de
partments would share the burden
will remain in abeyance. General
Funston will continue to exercise su
preme command for the whole length
of the line.
In connection with General Bliss'
departure it was learned today that
meat inspectors from the department
of agriculture have been sent to sup
ply points on the border at the re
quest of iho war department. Not
a pound of meat will reach the troops
that has not been passed by the gov
ernment experts.
CONFIDENT CANNOT PROVE
IS
of all the facts.'
With these words. State's Attorney ! refer to the fighting in Bukowina and Galicia but asserts that Russian at
tacks near Soqul and along the Stokhod have been repulsed.
Up to July 10 the drive of General Brussiloff had resulted in the cap
ture of 271,620 prisoners, it is announced officially.
The Italians have captured additional positions from the Austrian!,
particularly on the Passubio front.
Ralph J. Dady today began the second
of the prosecution's arguments for the
conviction of Wm. H. Orpet, the col
lege student charged with the murder
of 18-year-old Marion Lambert.
Preceding, Mr. Dady, Attorney Leslie
P. Hanna made the first argument for
the defense. He talked but little more
than an hour, but more detailed ad
dresses will be made by Orpet's other
lawyers, James 11. Wilkerson and Ralph
F. Potter.
Mr. Dady took up in detail the testi
mony which he said proved that Marion
had no motive for suicide, and sought
to show that when she entered Helm's
woods with Orpet February 9 she fully
expected to come out of them alive.
Entente Allies
Make Good Gains
On All Fronts
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
I.ONDON, July 11. This was an-
she snid' 'ftnt now T fool liottor ami
of the dam that a search might, be want to be gHme one in tne worl(1 ,
"On the verv dav she w ent to Jier I
death," said the state's attorney, "she "th" Good day for the entente allies
carried a letter ready to mail, addressed I who are making a steady advance on
to her Sunday school teacher, in which a fronts. A striking illustration of
the difference in the relative position
Germans Shell
Fortifications
They Once Held
made this morning. Harrison Will-
lan.s of the sheriffs office, will leavo
this morning to assist in the search.
It is thought possible that the mer
may l.e in the wreckage of the ma
chine. Mr. Effron sail that the mm left
Phoenix on Saturday afternoon for
Globe, where a branch business had
Just lieen established. He learned
sterday morning that they had not
arrived there, and then he called at
the -he riff's office to make inquiry.
Samuel Appel, the elder of tho
brothers, is tbout thirty-one years of
ng-. He leaves a wife and three
(Continued on Page Five)
will come to the meeting and bring
some of the girls who usually do not
come.'
"This letter," went on Mr. Dady, "was
to have been mailed that day, a Wed
nesday. The meeting was for the fol
lowing Saturday. Does that look like a
girl bent on destruction?
"Do you think she was thinking of
suicide Sunday, February 6, when she
had her girl friends, including Eleanor
Double, at her 18th birthday party?
Eleanor's birthday fell on the next Sun
day. 'I'll be with you, Double dear,"
she said, 'all next Sunday.'
"At this birthday parly Florence
(Continued on I'age Three)
FORMER PRISONER ADDRESSES
THE 5ALE5INSRIP CONGRESS
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
DETROIT, Mich., July 11. Fran!
Goewey Junen, a former Muskegon
Mich., manufacturer, who served a
term In Ionia prison for embezzle
ment, after his plant became bank
rupt, delivered an address on "in
tegrl:y" to the World'.'! Salemanship
Congress here today. Jones, while
at Ionia, was known as a "model
prisoner."
"A house of integrity in Its deal
ings with both Its customers and its
salesmen, always must stand com
plete and unimpaired in moral sound
ness," said Mr. Jones. "It will be
entirely honest and wholly free from
corrupting infVuences or practices.
Piinctilllouslv strict in the fulfillment
of every contract, it may be trusted
lmpliclty by Its trado and by its
representatives alike.
"Perhaps you say Its too good ever
to come true. Yet bosses are learn
ing the business statute of Integrity
and are adopting It. The only way
to avoid being caught In dishonesty,
tell the boss, is to be completely hon
est always. None of you salesmen
need to be told alout the bliss there
Is In working for a square boss. A
house-of Integrity represented by o
salesman of Integrity and doing busi
ness with customers of Integrity,
would make a combination equivalent
to Heaven." v
'Choosing Men," was the subject
of pn address by Rrown Landone of
Paris. Mr. Landone was director.
general of the International Social
and Civic exposition.
"The only reliable test of the true
value of a man is how the brain
mechanism works," he said. "General
observation may be made specific by
observing and testing every factor
which indicates the man, his nature,
his impulses, and actual working of
the mind and brain mechanism with
in."
Philadelphia, Rochester and Cincin
nati are campaigning for the next
congress.
of the allied and the Teutonic forces,
and of the remarkable change from
the monotonous defensive trench war
fare which characterized the allied op
erations for so many weary months,
until the present summer, Is found in
the number of prisoners and guns
taken. These for the battle of the
Somme amount to 22,1)00 prisoners and
104 guns captured from the Germans
while the official figures for the Rus
sian General BruRilorfs drive to the
tenth of July are 271,620 prisoners, 312
guns and SIC machine guns.
Today's news Is of sustained and
heavy fighting on almost all the
fronts, the allies making consistent
progress with only occasional set
backs. The British finally have cap
tured the fiercely contested town of
Contalmaison after desperate day and
night fighting and now are holding
the town against all the German coun
ter attacks.
The importance the Germans have
attached to this position may be
measured by the fact that they re
cently threw the Prussian guards in
to the fighting at this point.
The Hritish also are in possession
of the greater part of Mametz wood
and have recaptured nearly the whole
of Trones wood. The British commander-in-chief
Gen. Sir Douglas Haig,
thus summarizes the results of the
ten days' operations'.
"Our troops have completed the
methodical capture of the whole en
emy's first Bystem of defenses on a to hold It.
front of 14.000 yards."
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
PRESS CAMP, British Army In
France, July 11. (via London, July 12.)
At headquarters this afternoon the
Associated Press correspondent was
shown a map with vari-colored shapes
representing the ground taken each day
during the offensive and the effect of
a steady systematic advance working
forward against redoubted fortifica
tions.
The evening reports show the Hritish
line established beyond Contalmaison
and connected up with the north edge
of Mametz wood.
The Germans continued shelling Con
talmaison today and all their old com
municating trenches, ironing the hill
sides which might give the British
cover. Prisoners taken at Contalmai
son speak of being under artillery fire
so thick and persistent they maintained
that it shut off all food and water sup
plies and say that when the fire lifted
the survivors were too dazed for any
thing but to yield.
The curtains of artillery fire cut off
any hope of escape and the German
gunners were driven away or killed by !
rifle fire in the Mametz wood. The
advance through this wood was in the
nature of hide and seek fighting, the
men taking cover behind trunks of
trees, chopping out or digging shelter
in the mess of ruts, then sniping or
dashing forward. It has been a contest
of individual cunning, initiative and
industry.
The continued dry weather Increases
the dust clouds raised by the bursting
shells, adding to the obscurity as to
the exact positions of the combatants
hour to hour. Another bit of shell-
mauled farmland has been won by the
tireless guns which help the infantry
DEUTSCRLAND
CAPTAIN PREPARES TO LEI
Republican A. P. Leased Wire I
BALTIMORE, July 11. Confident
that the efforts of the diplomatic rep
resentatives of the entente allies to
have his vessel classed as a warship
and interned will lroye unavailing,
Captain Paul Knenig, master ot the
German submarine Deutschiand, is pre
paring to leave port on his return
voyage within ten days.
Captain Koenig expressed satisfac
tion tonight when informed that three
American naval officers who today in
spected the Deutschiand to determine
her status had reported in effect that
not only was she an unarmed merchant
vessel now but was so constructed that
she could not be converted into a war
craft without being rebuilt Captain
Koenig said he could officially reiterate
that the Deutschiand, like other sub
marines built or building for Ger
many's new undersea merchant fleet,
was designed solely as a freight carrier.
At least eight of these vessels, it was
(Continued on I'age Three)
THE DEUTSCHLAND
IS MERCHANTMAN
WASHINGTON, July 11. Final '
decision by the state department
that the German submarine, '
Deutschiand is a merchant ship, '
j entitled to all privileges accorded
under international law to a bel-
I ligorent owned freighter, was I
forecast toniuht by receipt at pre- i
liminary reports on an inspection
of the underwater liner at Balti-
more by naval officers and treas-
! fry officials.
Collector Ryan of Baltimore '
telegraphed the treasury depart-
I ment that after a thorough exam-
! ination of the boat by himself '
and Captain Hughes appointed
by the navy department to astist,
be adhered to his previous op-in- !
ion that the vessel is an unarm-
I ed merchantman, incapable of '
conversion for warlike purposes j
"Without extensive structural
changes."
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
DOUGLAS, Ariz., July 11. The is
suance of a proclamation by General
P. Elias Calles, military commander
of Sonora, today, ordering all volun
teer soldiers to return to their homes,
was the signal for tbe beginning of
an exodus of American mining and
cattlemen from the border district.
Twenty or more left Douglas for
points in the interior of Sonora dur
ing the day.
General Calles announced that he
had demobilized four thousand volun
teer cavalrymen who had been en
camped in Fronteras, Cuchuta and
Nacozari, to the south of Douglas
for several weeks. Approximately
the same number remain to be de
mobilized at Cananea, Magdalena and
Hermosillo, he said.
His proclamation, after several
paragraphs devoted to explaining that
the situation had modified to a point
where the Mexican government felt
war would be avoided, said:
'Free men who make up the con
tingents of the volunteers of Sonora,
return to yoi'r homes with as much
satisfaction as though victory in
bloody battles had crowned your
heads; you have done your duty and
you are entitled fully to the name
of Mexican citizens."
The southward movement of regu
lar troops from border concentration
points was also started today. Eight
thousand men under Generals Sf.
Martinez and Rafael Estrada hav
been entraining for the Yaqul river
valley, according to reports at Gen
eral Calles' headquarters in Agua
Prieta, from Hermosillo and Mag
dalena. The managers of the large minim;
companies of Sonora are feslinn their
way cautiously and have made no
positive announcements about tho
ime the-ir foreign employes will re
turn to Mexico. The American em
bargo on explosives stands in tho
way of continued operation and the
company managers say it would be
mpossiblo to operate on anything
like a normal basis until this has
been raised or modified.
It is understood here the embargo
question has been taken up with
Brigadier General T. P. Davis, com
manding the Arizona district, and
with the state department in Wash-
ngton, D. C.
A heavy rain which has fallen with
ittle diminution since Sunday after
noon, has caused tho New Jersey
and Montana national guardsmen, en
camped west of Douglas, much dis
comfort. Considering the number of
men involved, there is little sickness,
however.
CERIANS 'JUBILANT OVER
DEUTSCHLAND 'S ACHIEVEMENT
Republican A. P. Leased Wire ists associated with me the Deutsch
BERLIN, July 11, (via London, July j bank and the Nord Deutsche Lloyd
12.) The opening of direct shipping that the war presumably would last
connections between Germany and the I another twelve months. This was the
United States by the submarine mer- hardest part of my task. Once this was
(Continued on Page Three)
To Expedite Legislation
Because of Campaign
Republican A. P. Leased Wire i aside until next session and action on
WASHINGTON, July 11. Demo-1 the tiendine- Immigration bill urob-
cratic and republican leaders in the ably also will be deferred.
sAiate will hold a conference tomor- J Every democratic senator received
w u..-.u.-.o mi-aim ul expeuuing tonight a written notice irom major
important legislation so that congress Uy Leader Kerns stating that the ar-
German Steamers Captured
LONDON, July 11. Russian torpedo
boats have captured the German steam
ers Lissabon and Worms, according to
a report received in Stockholm from
Skelleftea, a small seaport in Sweden
on the Gulf of Bothnia, and transmit
ted by Reuter's correspondent at Stockholm.
Stokhod Campaign Progress
PETROGRAD, July 11, (via London,
July 12.) An official communication
Issued this evening tells of the progress
of the campaign along the line of the
Stokhod river. It says:
"In the region of the Stokhod the
fighting continues, the enemy display-
no,.,., iho o.i that the i, nuitn.au f line the greatest desperation. Enemy
today appointed a special committee ' the senate may be expedited and con- ! airmen continually make flights behind
to confer with the democrats on the eluded within a reasonable time." our lines- attacking our troops with
subject. The democratic steering The altitude of retmblican senators bombs and machine guns.'
committee also met, decided on a leg- ' reflected in today's conferences
Islative program and voted to hold the aroused hope of a reasonably ear
senate in session nine hours daily un- ly adjournment. General sentiment
til it is completed. j 8eemed to be against a filibuster on
The navy and army appropriation the shipping or revenue bills. The ml
bills, the shipping, child labor and cor- nority is expected to oppose both
rupt practices measures and the $200,- measures vigorously but leaders are
000,000 revenue bills were listed as the said not to favbr dilatory methods as
Imperative legislation on the program. ! they are Just as anxious as the demo
Conservation measures will be laid j crats to get into the campaign.
chantman Deutschiand has occasioned
great jubilation and enthusiasm among
Germans, but no one is more elated i
than Alfred Lohmann, ex-president of
the Bremen chamber of commerce and
the originator of an underwater serv
ice. To the Associated Press Herr Loh
mann said today that the Deutschiand
was only the first of a fleet of sub
marine freighters and that a regular
trans-Atlantic service with frequent
sailings soon would be in operation.
A second boat named the Bremen,
he added, is about to start for America
with a cargo and a number of sister
ships are rapidly approaching comple
tion. It is understood that the number
of boats soon will be adequate for the
establishment of a weekly service
done the rest was easy for our figures
showed that the boats would more than
pay for themselves in a single round-
trip, trmnq
A company was immediately incor
porated as the 'German Ocean Naviga
tion company of Bremen,' with a nomi
nal capital. Articles were filed on No
vember 8, and work was begun on the
first and second boats. The Detusch
land was completed some time ago,
and, after successful trials in the Bal
tic, started for America, following the
usual peace route of our Bremen and
Hamburg steamers.
"No, I don't care to give her exact
sailing date, nor the time of passage,
but you can reach an approximation
from the boat's speed of fourteen knots,
making the necessary allowance for re-
Accepts Food Shipments
FX PASO, July 11. The Mexican
Northwestern railroad again has been
opened for tbe shipment of supplies
to American troops in Mexico. This
action follows the lifting of the em
bargo on food and other exportationa
to Mexicans.
Shipments ore being made by El
Paso concerns by way of Juarez to
Casas Grandes merchants, who in
turn dispose of their supplies to the.
quartermaster at the field base.
Army officers welcome the indirect
use of the Mexican railway for trans
portation of supplies, as the rainy
season is now on and the motor truck
trail from Columbus is not so effi
cient as it was.
Tn Mexican quarters the re-opening
of the line was pointed to as evi
dence of a further slacking of the
tension in the border situation.
"Remember," said Herr Lohmann, duced speed when running submerged
may adjourn for the
palgn.
Republican senators In
political cam-
conference
rangement for daily sessions from 11
a, m. to 8 p. m, was "deemed neces-
Austrian Statement
VIENNA, (via London, July 11.)
The official statement issued today
says: - '
"Near Zobrzo on the Czeremosz we
repelled Russian attacks. Attacks made
"that the Deutschiand was entirely un
armed; she carried no torpedo tubes,
no cannon, and no weapons of offense
or defense of any kind.
"So anxious was I that the unarmed
merchantman character of our boats
has been established beyond doubt, I
Insisted that the captain Of the
Deutschiand should not even carry the
customary revolver upon leaving Bremen."
Under these circumstances, he con
tended, there is nothing to prevent the
Deutschiand, exclusively a merchant
man, from remaining as long as she
pleases in a neutral harbor and load
ing a cargo, fuel and supplies free from
the restrictions which prevent warships
from entering a neutral port, except un
der stress, or remaining more than
twenty-four hours.
"I conceived the idea of breaking the
British blockade long ago," Herr Loh-
maun continued, "but the project first
and for a certain time in resting on
the bottom, which was necessary in
getting through the channel past the
British lines."
Motors Are Hampered
COLUMBUS, N. M, July 11. Motor
truck transportation between Colum
bus and the field base has been
hampered greatly in the last 21 hours
by heavy rains. Reports to military
headquarters tonight indicate that
two trains were stalled in the sand
between here and Colonia Dublan,
while a numler of trains are being
held here waiting for the roads to
dry before starting south.
o
ADMIRAL MILLERS WIDOW DIES
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
EAST ORANGE, N. J., July 11
Mrs. Helen Wills Miller, widow of
Rear Admiral Joseph Nelson Miller,
died bere last night
Righton Is New Grand
Exalted Ruler Of Elks
by superior forces near Sokul broke
down in our entanglements. The enemy j took definite shape last autumn, when
(Continued on Pag Three) 1 1 succeeded in convincing the capltal-
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
BALTIMORE, July 11. Edward O.
Rightor of New Orleans was elected
today grand exalted ruler of the Be
nevolent and Protective Order of Elks
over Lloyd Maxwell of Marshalltown,
Iowa, at the annual convention of the
order in session here this week. The
contest was declared by old-timers
among the delegates to have been the
hottest in the history of the organ
ization. Boston was selected for the
next year's convention.
The other officers were elected as
follows:
Esteemed leading knight, Morris
O'Dell, Camden, N. J.; Esteemed loy
al knight, E. R. Ingersoll, Seattle,
Wash.; esteemed, lecturing knight,
James M. Shanley, Oakland, Cal.;
Grand sire, Fred C. Robinson, Du
buque, Iowa; grand treasurer, Charles
A. White, Chicago; grand tyler, Ol
iver Black, Oklahoma City, Okla.;
grand trustee, George Locke, Rogers,
Ark,
