VOL. LXXIX, NO. 49 WHOLE NO. 4121.
COMMENCED AUGUST 8, 1837.
ST. JOHNSBURY, VERMONT, WEDNESDAY, JULY 12, 1916.
The Berry-Ball
Some time this month (date will be given
later in this space) we shall show a big
line of
NAVAJO BLANKETS
coming from Thoreau, New Mexico.
The sale will be handled by our for
mer townsman, MR. C. B. WEEKS,
who is general manager of The McGaffey
Co., Thoreau, New Mexico.
Watch this space for date
The Berry-Ball
A BANK,
Like the Individual, Must Live
and Be Known By Its
Reputation
We endeayor to be tarorably known by:
Careful Management insuring Safety of Principal.
Liberal Dividends to Depositors 49o compounded semi-annually.
Prompt and Courteous attention to business, whether by mail or
at our window.
And to do our part to assist the small Depositor to a start to
wards habits of thrift. To this end we receive deposits of S 1.00 and
upwards.
Passumpsic
St. Johnsbury
SPECIAL SESSION THE 18TII
Believed Gov. Gates Will Call Legisla
ture for Tito Days.
Montpelier, July 11. Although no
official statement has been Issued by
Gov. C. V. Gates or his secretary, it
is understood from a reliable source
that the special session of the legisla
ture suggested as soon as the call
came from the National guard to go
to the Mexican border will be held
Tuesday, July 18. The legislators
would probably not tarry longer than
two days.
The big meeting of the Greater
Vermont association to be held in
Montpelier July 12 and 13 prevented
the session being called for this week
on account of lack of accommoda
tions.
It is reported that the suggestion
that the members of the legislature
refuse to vote themselves any pay for
their work while in session meets with
favor, but that they will accept the
mileage allowed at the rate of 20
cents a mile.
CAPITALIZED AT $200,000.
The Essex Storage Electric Co.,
Inc., of St. Johnsbury has filed arti
cles of association with the secretary
of state, with capital stock of $200,
000. The company, as the names Im
plies, plans to develop water power
and storage reservoirs In Caledonia
and Essex counties on the Moose riv
er and tributaries; and the subscrib
ers are T. W. Chase of Passumpsic,
Fred D. Oilman, Harry H. Carr, Free
man A. Pierce. Charles G." Bailey, all
of St. Johnsbury.
Dry Goods Co.
Dry Goods Co.
Savings Bank
Vermont
INFANTILE PARALYSIS
NOW IN BURLINGTON
Burlington, July 11. Vermont's
first case of Infantile paralysis
was reported today. The victim
is a four-year-old boy. There is
no connection between his illness
and the New York epidemic, the
physician said. A dozen houses
where children from New York
are living have been quarantined
as a precaution against a repeti
tion of the epidemic which raged
in the state two years ago and
apieared in a milder form last
year.
VILLA IS DIRECTING.
If Not Actually Leading the Bandit
Forces in Southern Chihuahua.
El Paso, Texas, July 11. The
Mexican authorities In Chihuahua
City believe that Villa is directing, If
not actually leading, the bandits in
southern Chihuahua, according to an
American who is in close touch with
affairs and who reached the border
today-. He said that General Trevino,
the Carranza commander, received
official reports that before the clash
at Jiminez the Villa forces captured
and sacked the town of Diaz, several
miles north and cut off the ears of
the captives.
FRATERNAL MEETINGS
Paasampale Lodare. So. 27. F. A A. M.
Regular Communication Thursday eren
iag, July 13.
F. Y. Jackson, W. M.
, D. R. Colb, Secretary.
Baaweil Royal Area Chapter, "o. 11.
Stated ConTOcation Friday eTenlng, July
14.
Raymond A. Pearl, E. H.P.
Fiio G. Moon, Secretary.
Palestine Commander?. No. 6, K. T.
Stated Conclare Tuesday eyentng, July
11.
Blwim A. Silsbt. Em. Commander.
BiiL D. Evans, Recorder.
The Uaitim of Natural Science.
Open week days 912 A. M , 14 P. M
Sunday 2.30 to 5 P. M.
All -visitors welcomed, v
St. Johnsbury Athenaeum.
LIBKAKT BEADING BOOM ART G1LLIIT
9 o'clock to 9 o'clock each week day, Wed
nesday evenings excepted.
3 o'clock to 5 o'clock Sundays
All are Invited.
7
LOCAL NOTICfcs
(Notices will be Inserted in this
column in reading1 matter type at the
rate of ten cents a line for the first
insertion and five cents a line for sub
sequent insertions of the same copy.)
Miss Bertha Wesselhoeft Swift of
Boston, soprano, and teacher of sing
ing, will spend the summer in this
vicinity and will commence teaching
the first week in July. Her address
will be 88 Main street. 3t
First class seven-passenger auto for
hire. C. E. Sparhawk, Phone 336-"W.
Mrs. A. E. Grow, foot specialist,
will be in town Thursdays, Fridays
and Saturdays only until September
25. Adv.
Try the new College Ice, "Ruby
Flop" at Searles Soda Fountain.
From May t September The Cale
donian Office will be closed Saturday
afternoons. Bring in your business
Saturday morning.
Fairbanks Coffee, sold by A. H.
Gleason, 73 Main street.
If you need a monument or any
lettering done in cemetery write or
call 534M. J. E. Walker.
LOCAL, NOTICE
Food Sale' at First Baptist church
by Ladies Aid society, Saturday, July
15 at 2.30.
AUTO HITS WAGON
Angelo Bona Taken to Brightlook
Hospital After Smash With Car
of Alexander Dunnett.
A serious accident occurred at Lyn
don Tuesday noon when the auto own
ed and driven by Alexander Dunnett
of St. Johnsbury crashed into the
fruit wagon driven by Angelo Bona
also of St. Johnsbury, completely
wrecking the wagon and tipping the
automobile onto its side. The fruit
team was owned by G. T. Santolucita
and Bona, who was driving, turned
into the bridge crossing the Pas
sumpsic at lynaon to escape a
shower.
While waiting for the shower to
pass he put a nosebag on the horse so
he could be eating and had climbed
back onto the wagon when the auto
driven by Mr. Dunnet going toward
Lyndonville swung into the bridge
and owing to the rain on the wind
shield did not see the fruit team un-
till too late to slow up.
The mudguard on the left side
caught the rear wheel on the wagon
and partly swung it around, smash
ing it and at the same tim-e the auto
skidded and went over ,on its side.
In the crash Bona was caught in the
wreckage and it was thought serious
ly hurt. He was taken to Brightlook
hospital by Dr. Allen who was called,
and later in the day Dr. W. B. Fitch
gave him an Xray examination but
found no broken bones.
Although badly bruised he was
quite comfortable later in the even
ing. Mr. Dunnett and those in the
auto were not injured.
MISS BANCROFT TO SPEAK.
Will Address August Meeting of
Woman's Club.
The civics committee of the Wo
man's club has secured as speaker for
the August meeting Miss Jessie Ban-)
croft, assistant physical director of
the public schools of Greater New
York. Miss Bancroft is also president
of the American Posture league. Her
subject will be "Posture and the
American Posture League," empha
sizing the vital relation between cor
rect posture and proper physical de
velopment and the bearing which ill
fitting clothing. Improperly, construct
ed furniture, etc., have upon the
health of growing children.
By preparation and practical ex
perience Miss Bancroft is qualified to
talk most impressively and instruc
tively on this phase of physical cul
ture whose importance is only re
cently becoming appreciated.
The lecture will be generously Il
lustrated by stereopticon and there
fore interesting to children as well as
adults.
The meeting will be held in the
South church the evening of Monday,
August 7. It will be an open meeting
to which the public is cordially in
vited. Gives $130,000 To Hospital.
Ogdensburg, N. T., July 11. An
nouncement was made here tonight
that A. Barton Hepburn, a native of
St. Lawrence county, has given $130,
000 to Ogdensburg City hospital.
. Villa Attacks Repulsed.
Chihuahua, Mex. July 11. Villa
bandits attacked Carranza garrisons
today at Rosario and Parral but in
both cases were beaten off with loss
es according to official reports from
Gen. Trevino.
ALLIES ADVANCE
. ALL THE
British Commander In Chief
10 Days Operations Have
About Eight Miles of the German First System of De
fense 22,000 Prisoners Taken In the Allied Ofensive
On the Somme
BRITISH CAPTURE CONTALMAISON
German Official Statement Admits That Fighting on the Stokhod Line
Is Approaching Kovel on Both Sides of the Railroad Difficulties
Central Powers Are Facing in the AH Around Offensive Are Indicated
by the Fact That Austria Has Been Obliged To Send Men Mustered
for the Russtan Front to the Italian Theater
London, July 11. This was another great day for the allies who
are making a steady advance on all fronts. A striking illustration of
the difference in the relative positions of the allied and Teutonic
forces and of the remarkable change from the monotonous defensive
trench warfare which characterized the allied operations for so many
months is found in the number of prisoners and guns taken. These
for the battle of the Somme amount to 22,000 prisoners and 104 guns
captured from the Germans. While the official figures for the Rus
sian drive to the 10th of July adds 271,620 prisoners, 312 guns and
1,866 machine guns.
Today's news is of sustained and heavy fighting on almost all the
fronts, the allies making consistent progress with only occasional set
backs. The British have finally captured the fiercely contested town
of Contalmaison after desperate day and night fighting and are now
holding the town against a German counter attack. The import
ance the Germans attached to this position may be measured by the
fact that they recently threw the Prussian guards into the fighting
here. The British share also in possession of greater part of Mametz
woods and have recaptured nearly
The British commander-in-chief, Sir Douglas Haig thus sum
marizes the result of the 10 days' operations: "Our troops have
completed the methodical capture of the whole of- the enemy's first
svstem of defense on a front of 1.400 yards, nearly eight miles. ' ' The
news from the eastern front is equally satisfactory from the allied point
of view.
The German official communication admits that the fighting on the
Stokhod line is approaching Kovel on both sides of the railroad and
claims that the Russians have been driven back near Huteviche. Much
comment was caused here today by the German denial of an alleged
Russian claim that Pinsk had been evacuated as no such claim has yet
been made. It is now clear that the Russian drive in the direction of
Kovel has brought the German offensive at Lutsk to a standstill ac
cording to the Russian communication. The Germans have brought
strong reinforcements' to defend the Stokhod line and Kovel. Gen.
Brusiloff. however: now has the impassable Pinsk marshes covering his
right flank and is in a position to
Kovel.
The huge conflagrations noted in the Russian communica
tion south of the Kovel railroad are regarded in Petrograd as having
been caused by the Germans to cover their own retreat and impede the
Russian advance, which is within 20 miles of Kovel. The capture of
34,000 prisoners by the Russians between July 4 and 8 in the Stokhod
and Galician battles seems to indicate the Germans have been unable
to throw up sufficient reinforcements to stem the Russian advance.
According to a report from Berne, Switzerland, the Austrians are
hurriedly transferring their Landsturm from Serbia and Montenegro
in an attempt to hold back the Russians.
The difficulties confronting the Central Powers in meeting the all
around attack of the allies are indicated in the Italian official state
ment which says the Austrians have been obliged to recall to the Ital
ian front men mustered foif the Russian front.
WILL MEET IX GREEXSBORO
Annual Meeting of Passumpsic Con
gregational Club To Be Held Today.
The 27th annual meeting of tha
Passumpsic Congregational club will
be held at Greensboro today -with
the following program: 10.30 a. m.,
conference of ministers with Rev. C.
E. Burton, D. D-, Rev. H. F. Swartz,
D. D.; 1.30 p. m., diseussion of the
question, "Shall the Passumpsic Con
gregational Club be Revived?; 2 p. m.,
business; 3 p. m., address, "The Ter
centenary Program, Rev. F. H.
Swartz, D. D.; 3.45 p. m., address,
Rev. C. E. Burton, D. D.; 5 p. m.,
banquet, served by the ladies of the
church, with post-prandial addresses.
The officers of the club are Frank
H. Brooks, St. Johnsbury, president;
R. W. Spear, Newport, first vice-president;
N. A. Dole, Danville, 2nd vice-
president; Miss Helen L. Graves, St.
Johnsbury Center, secretary and
treasurer; Robert MacKinnon, St.
Johnsbury, Rev. E. G. French, Hard
wick, H. C. Wilson, Lyndonville, ex
ecutive committee; Rev. W. C. Clark,
Barnet, C. E. Gay, Orleans, J. B. Hale,
Newbury, membership committee;
Rev. C. H. Merrill, St. Johnsburyf au
ditor. Fishermen Return.
The camping party composed of Dr.
W. P. Fitch, S. A, Moore, Olin Ad
ams, Alvin Cummings and Bert
Spencer returned to town Tuesday
after spending 10 days In cam pabout
25 miles from Megantlc. A fine catch
of fish was reported, the party bring
ing back about 100 pounds amongst
them.
The fish were said to have bitten
fine while the party was In camp.
About 40 good-sized trout were nec
essary to make a satisfactory meal for
the party. The party brought back
besides a string of trout a goodly col
lection of insect bites as souvenirs.
FRONTS
Announces That In the Last
Resulted In the Capture of
the whole of Trones woods.
outflank the German defenses of
WALKED 120 MILES.
Two St. Johnsbury Boys Enjoyed a
Few Days' Outdoor Life.
Raymond Legassy and Harold Til
lotson returned Friday from a 120
mile hike. They started on Sunday,
July 2, each carrying about 40 pounds
of luggage consisting of tent, blank
ets, cooking utensils, etc. They
camped the first night in Waiden and
the next day covered 27 miles to
Morrisville, from which' point they
took several minor trips. On Thurs
day they started home again, camp
ing that night at Caspian Lake. They
lost their way Friday and had to walk
31 miles to get home, making It a
hard day on account of the heat, but
neither boy was over-tired and each is
ready to start on another long hike
any day.
Hudson 3Ian Takes Vermont Bride.
Miss Clara S. Daniels of St. Johns
bury, and Bertram P. Reynolds of
Hudson, N. Y., were united in mar
ridge at the parsonage of the First
Baptist church of Hudson, Monday
afternoon at 4 o'clock. The cere
mony was performed by the Rev. De
Witt Lukens, pastor of the church.
Following a short wedding trip the
young couple will make their future
home at 72 North Fifth street. Both
are popular young people, and have
many friends in this city who wish
them happiness.
"Vermont Day" Service.
The North and South churches
have begun union services for the
summer, for July the meetings being
held in the South .church. Sunday
morning Rev. F. B. Richards con
ducted a service in response to the
Governor's proclamation concerning
the observance of the 125th anni
versary of Vermont's entering the
union. The order of service prepar
ed by the "Greater' Vermont Asso
ciation" was used, and Mr. Richards
preached a historical sermon.
LETTER FROM
N. IUHBBONS
His Mother On Caledonia Street
Receives Interesting Narration of
Battle of Ypres
WRITTEN IN HOSPITAL
Epistle Narrates How He and Anoth
er Wounded Soldier Cratvled Mile
and a Half to Dressing Station
and of the Care and Treatment
He Has Received.
An interesting letter telling of the
terrific battles of Ypres and of the
battle in which he was wounded and
of his subsequent care and treatment
at the hospital to which he was re
moved has been received by Mrs. Ta
mar Gibbons on Caledonian street
from her son, N. H. Gibbons, ' in
France, with the British army. The
letter tells of his part in the very
worst battle of the European war on
the western front with the exception
of the present offensive on the Somme.
Mr. Gibbons, with another wound
ed comrade, crawled one and one-half
miles to the nearest dressing station
on hands and knees at all times in
view of the German trenches. The
letter, which is of unusual Interest,
follows:
Private N. H. Gibbons, 432,453, 49th
Battalion, Canadian Contingent,
Wharncliffe War Hospital, Sheffield,
England, June 18.
Dear Mother:
Will now write you a more detail
ed account of affairs as it Is public.
I might say that the bombardment of
Ypres was the worst yet on the Brit
ish front. The only other place where
it was similar was at Viny Ridge,
near Loos. The fighting up to the
time I was wounded was a case of us
being blown out of our trenches along
with a few mines that were going up.
These did not get any of us as we
knew of the mines and got out of
the trenches that were mined. I have
been in some bombardments before.
Was in one the 26th of March which
was the hardest for ten months, a.c
' cording to general orders, but the
start of the third battle of Ypres was
the hardest yet.
We had Just finished our time (in
the trenches) and were in reserve In
the right half of the 7th Brigade,
that is our brigade. The battle com
menced June 2nd at 9 a. m. The fol
lowing morning at daybreak we made
our first charge and were successful
in driving the Boches back. Then in
conjunction with other Canadian
troops started to drive them back
where they had blown up the mines
and drove part of the mback twice,
but were In danger of being cut off.
This was June 3d. The third time we
were successful and held what we
had gained. It was at the start ot
the third drive that I got mine, a
small wound In the back, another In
the left leg, between the knee and
thigh and a few scratches, the wound
in the leg being the most serious.
Along with one of the other lads we
took a chance of getting to the dress
ing station which was the hardest
Job for my leg was stiff by that time,
the other lad's back was so sore he
could Just move. We were in full
sight of the Boches for the whole dis
tance so on that account the fact of
not being able to walk I went along
on my hands and one knee for about
one and one-half miles. It took three
hours to get to the dressing station,
where I had to wait a short time and
got into an ambulance and was sent
to the clearing station and from there
to the base hospital at Camlers where
they removed the metal from my leg.
I had the best bf care from the nurses
and the officers in charge. From
there I was sent to the hospital here
in Sheffield, England. I will be In
England for some time as the leg will
be some time healing up and it will be
a long time before I get my strength
back.
Ihave had a visit from the ladies
of the Canadian hospital aid to see
If I wished for anything. There are
a number of Canadian and Australians
here, so the time does not pass too
badly.
The doctors and nurses in charge
are all very nice with all the men
here, so you do not need to worry.
I could have written a fuller ac
count of the start of the battle but
since I got laid out we have taken
back the remainder of the ground lost
owing to the mines, but do not care
to have the censor hold this letter up
as it would the first. You can gef
all the news from the papers anyhow.
Give my regards to all the people
there.
COUNTY POLITICS
J. B. Campbell Comes Out as Candi
date for State's Attorney.
James B. Campbell will not return
to Washington to serve as secretary
for Congressman P. H. Dale, but will
resume the practice of law in this
village. He has taken ah office with
Elisha May on Eastern avenue.
Mr. Campbell will also be a candi
date for state's attorney in the pri
maries to be held in September in
opposition to N. G. Norton, the pres
ent incumbent, and also a candidate
for renomination.
W. A. Ricker is circulating peti
tions for a senatorshlp from this
county.
Subscribe for the Daily Caledonian
SCORES ST. J. MORALITY
Unknown "A. M. Allen" Claims to Be
Representative of Vice Prevention
Society and Makes Complaints.
A number of letters have been re
ceived by Chief Finlay from a party
claiming to be a memoer of the so
ciety for the prevention of vice and
signing himself "A. M. Allen." The
letters are relative to the existing
moral condition of a number of lo
calities in town mentioned in the let
ters and the names of the parties and
the time that the misdemeanors oc
cur are explicitly set forth.
Upon the receipt of the first letter
on June 20th, Chief Finlay made an
effort to find the writer but could And
no one In town by that name and
after looking the matter over decid
ed that If the people interested would
appear in person or write under their
own name, if any such condition ex
isted, the police would be glad to co
operate but until something more
conclusive appeared nothing would be
done.
The letter first received was type
written, leaving no clue to the writer
or a basis upon which the writer
could be judged. But a second let
ter was received a day or two ago by
the Chief written in a very poor hand
with the same name attached, call
ing attention to the fact that the
former letter had passed unnoticed
and charging that although the of
fenses were still being committed the
chief was blind to them and had In
some way put the parties on their
guard. As Chief Finlay, after finding
out that the name signed to the let
ter was not responsible, had made no
investigation', the charges In the let
ter and the evident ignorance of the
person writing it closed the incident
as far as he was concerned. The let
ter closed by saying "we have brok
en up 10 places in Vermont since
Jan. 1st, and I will be In town again
Saturday."
Bradstreet's Vermont Rejwrt.
Bradstreet's Burlington office re
ports for the week Just closed state
that manufacturers of garments,
woolens, knit goods, hosiery and
white goods are as of one unit re
garding a better than normal busl-
f ness for this time of the year. In
each line skilled labor is still In de
mand. Notwithstanding surplus of
business ahead, several different Jinea
of manufacture granted a two days'
holiday including the Fourth. The
customer's department for the state
of Vermont shows in its report for
the month of June an increase in
tboth imports and exports over the
same month of a year ago. Farmers
have commenced harvesting and re
rport an extraordinary heavy hay crop.
f Retail trade In the cities is better
than in the country districts. The
warm, sunny days of the week stim
ulated purchases of seasonable goods.
Manufacturers of garments state
trade from the larger centers Is com
ing In better than from the rural
sections. In nearly all cases the pro
duction is behind the demand.
Woolen business shows a healthy
condition for the present season, but
manufacturers are not inclined to
commit themselves in forecasting re
garding the coming season. Some
complaint, however. Is heard regard
ing the amount . of textile products
that are finding their way into this
country. The high prices of raw ma
terial and the advance In wages
places the manufacturer in no uncer
tain position as to what he is called
upon to do under present conditions.
A heavy demand and a shortage of
skilled labor Is one of the problems
confronting the hosiery and knit
goods manufacturer. The production
is better than normal, July and Au
gust are conceded to be quiet months
among the manufacturers of white
goods, but the demand and supply of
orders .ahead will not adm.t of any
curtailment this year. The shirt fac
tories in the state could use addi
tional help.
Commenting upon hay and cereals,
the farmer states these crops are
bumper ones this year, but late un
seasonable conditions have affected
potatoes and corn. It will be noted
in examining the reports from the
state of Vermont customs district for
the month Just closed that there was
an increase in Imports of 49 per cent
and an Increase of exports of 105 per
-cent compared with reports for June,
1915. The week was free from mer
cantile failures in this state.
Its The Good Old Summer
Time Dont Forget The
COAL
You did last year, and you said,
"Never again." We can give you
good Coal and gaod service now.
