•,'
VOLUME XXXVII.
WORK,ON HEATING
PLANTWELLBEGUN
MECHANIC AND LABORER BUSI
LY TAP, TAPPING WAY THRU
WALLS.
STEAM WILL SIZZ IN PIPES ON
FIRST COLD DAYS IN
SEPTEMBER.
Just at the time when about all a
person thinks of is how to keep cool rather
than of the winter's cold, operations for
the largest heating plant in the city are
being pushed to the limit. W. A. Rupea
of the Healy Heating Co. of St. Paul, who
have secured the contract for the inr
stallation of the municipal heating plant,
arrived here Wednesday to take charge of
the work. He will have personal charge
of the entire work and stated in an inter
view with a Review reporter that he
will see that the work is rushed as fast as
possible.
A present there are four mechanics
on the job and half a dozen laborers but
the number is being increased as fast as
the men are obtainable. When the
mains are being laid it will b|e necessary
to employ about twenty-five men more,
and these will as far as possible be made
up* of local laborers. The work at present
being done is the installation of the main
pipes in the buildings and connecting
them with the pipes leading to the
different rooms to be heated. Holes are
also being made in the basements of
buildings that are to receive heat thru
which the pipes will be" connected to the
main line. For this purpose it is
necessary in many .cases to go thru a two
foot foundation and as the work has to
be done with a hammer and cKjsel, #&
air drills being too heavy to move from
place to place, it takes from three to five
hours for each hole.
The laying of the mains will.be begun
as soon as the Ric-wil tile arrives from
the East which will no doubt be the end
of the week. Then the wbrH wiU be,
pushed afotig steadily''anilthe members
of the heating "company ahd those, who
are to have heat from the heating plant
will have" rid heed to fear the winter
weather.
Mr. Rupea stated thai be had.received
instructions from the' company to employ
as much local labor as possible. How
ever, the^me&tknics have to be skilled
in their work: land for this kind of work
only experts are employed. The material
will also: be bought through the local
dealers as-much as possible arid .even the
cement used will be ordered thru a local
dealer. Two carloads of pipe have al
ready beeri fecejVed, one on the third and
the other on the sixth. Besides these
various smallershipments have also
arrived.
If nothing, serious happens to, delay
the work, Mr. Rupea expects to have it
completed twomonths as the contract
states that the work is to be finished by
the" 15th of September.. At present he
has charge of all the work but the time
keeper and outside labor foreman are
expected this week and they, will take
considerable work off his hands.
The work was started in the basement
of the Brown County bank and the
workmen are now strung all along the
block north of Center street. When the
material for the outside work, such as
laying the mainai, arrives, workmen will
immediately be set to work at the power
house and will start laying the mains
upwards. There, will be three con
nections with the power house,.one on
Center street, one On First and the other
on Second North. Two carloads of
pipe for the basement mains and one
carload of other material (fittings) has
already arrived and four additional cars
were expected yesterday. The job com
plete will take approximately 800 ft. of
10 inch main, 300 ft. 4 inch return, 80 ft.
8 inch main and 80 ft 3. inch return.
ir
This will be required for the pipes to be:
laid underground and in addition to
this 1400 feet of 6 inch and 1400 ft. 2 1-2
inch pipe will be used for the basements
and connections, the six inch for mains
and the 2 1-2 inch for the return. The
Healy Company has rented the Metzin
ger. basement to use as a store room and
office. '.''":.'. ,- ." ''yV
When finished the plant will deliver
heat to some 50 different consumers,
some of whom have two and even three
buildings to heat. Besides these it will
be possible for those owning private
residences on the streets where the mains
are being laid to secure heat from the
plant.
MERCHANTS DECIDE
ON TRADE REFORM
WILL NOT SOLICIT GROCERY
ORDERS FROM HOUSE. -JTOt
HOUSED
ALSO AGREE TO $
AND KEEP THE1VT
ON
HOLIDAYS.
.Merchants of New Ulm have arrived
at an exceedingly sensible decision as
will.be seen by their advertisement to
be found on page 8 of this issue. They
have decided to cease soliciting orders
from house to house and will endeavor
to have housekeepers telephone in their
wants as early in the morning and again
in the afternoon in order to insure
delivery in good season for the noon and
evening meals.
It will be seen that practically all
grocers and general stores have signed
the agreement among the merchants.
This will put all on an equal basis so far
as securing business is concerned. Cus
tomers will give their trade where they
get what they want without being
solicited by any particular merchant
and the merchants will save considerable
time and expense. This move will also
open the way for a delivery business
here such as Sleepy Eye merchants have
enjoyed for quite a time if merchants
Later .should think thisvgsove advisable-:
Another part ofrthe agreement is the
decision' to observe certain holidays by
closing their doors for all day. These
holidays will be New Year's, Memorial
Day, the Fourth, Thanksgiving and
Christmas. No doubt some forgetful
housekeeper will feel aggrieved when she
finds her larder short when the holiday
dawns and no patient grocer's voice
answers her impatient S. 6 S. but she
will get used to the notion and order her
goods in season .as she always has to do
for Sunday. And the grocer and. his
clerks will really enjoy their holidays.
LAFAYETTE FARMERS PICNIC
The great dairy, creamery and farm
bureau picnic which was postponed on
account of bad weather will now be held
at the Lafayette school grounds to
morrow (Thursday) afternoon, the pro
gram of speeches to begin shortly after
1 o'clock in the afternoon. The speakers
who have promised to be there-'are: J.^
J. Farrell of the Dairy & Food Commis
sion of St. Paul James Sorenson,
manager of the State Creamery of Albert
Lea C. P. Bull of the University Farm,
St. Paul, and John Deets the, welt known
speaker from Mankato.
MISSION FESTIVAL
LAND
Wm. Hermann, Clifton Holcombe, Carl E. Joh^on, Sam. E. Jacobs, Ed. Junk PaS W
R. Ma^n, A. a GHbert Nebon, Thomas Pander, ATU.U?
AT COURT-
Sunday the Courtland and Nicollet
Lutheran churches held a joint Mission
Festival in the grove near the Courtland
church. The day was ideal for an outing
and a large concourse of, people from
near and far atterided and the Missions
fest proved a huge success ih every way.
Rev. August Bode of Good Thunder went glimmering.
delivered the address in the morning John Backer and Paul Hackbarth the two
and in the afternoon Prof. E. R. Bliefer- shoe men on the team may get small
nicht of the Dr. Martin Luther College prizes. John Backer played and won
of this city preached the sermon. The
SCHOOL OFFICERS
ASK RE-ELECTION
PRESENT INCUMBENTS WILLING
TO CONTINUE IN WORK IF
ELECTED.
ANNUAL REPORT OF TREASURER
AND CLERK SHOWS SCHOOL
FINANCES.
A study of the proceedings of the
Board of Education at the past two
meetings held for the purpose of closing
the books for the year and checking the
accounts of the financial officers of the
Board shows the year's business of the
.•^1tfAVin concise form. Receipts of
$G1£43|)4 are shown, including the
^P&wi^MM* hand at the beginning of the
'^0feSf^e8^?^7^O, and the disbursements,
sb)ow a jpualance on hand at this time of
J4,0J^?.55. Onei-rttem of revenue in
eJudokthe $20,000.00 from sale of bonds
and the small receipts such as tuition,
breakage*. etc., foot up to the sum of
$54&S1. The largest item of expense,
naturally, is for teachers' salaries and.
amounts to $22,858.92 but it is more
than covered by the special tax for:
tegcben which produced a revenue of
W01Q3& outside of the 'One Mffl Tax,i
the Special State Aid and the State Ap-^
porttenment. .',.•'•*•
Other items of interest to the tax
papers an those showing.interest paid
out amounting to $1,544.08, improve
ments costing $5,874.67, books and
suppttffl $2,942.36, operating costs
$7,A1&29 and maintenance costs of
$4,681.10. The Normal Department
supplies cost $248.27. There was also
paid off on notes the sum of $11,000.00.
The complete statement of the year's
business will be found on page 2 of this
issue*
Saturday of this week, July 15th, the
annual school election will be held. Theji
terms of Herman Held and Prof., A- F^?
Reime^ph^thte^eat and yfhi!eft^e^isj
usuaByLlittle interest manifested ih the,
school selections in New TJhn oMkte
years, it is barely possible that can
didates opposing the present incumbents
may appear at any time between how
and Saturday. The Board as consti
tuted has very generally given satis
faction in its conduct bf affairs and the
only reason for a change would be that
the present members of the Board might
wish to give up their duties. So far as
is known, both of the members whose
terms aspire are willing to continue: in
the service and the public should en
dorse their work by giving them a
generous vote to show appreciation of
their efforts for the school community.
SKAT PLAYERS AT CONVENTION.
New Uhn was well represented at the
national- ska* league1 meeting, which was
held at Milwaukee the latter part of
last and the beginning of this week.
Eight of the local club,under the leader
ship of that old scout skat player Charles
Stanbey Sr.r left for the Convention City
Friday afternoon, in the party were
Dr. J. P. Graff, Otto Oswald, Jos. Smasal,
Barney Esser, George Marti, John
Backer, Paul Hackbarth, Anton Dorn,
Henry Vetter, Julius Krause and
Charles Stuebe, Sr. By Saturday night
3600 players had registered and 500 more
were expected Sunday. By the time the
New Ulm contingent arrived, some one
had already made a score of 28 net
points and the hopes of the New TJIm
for the 1st prize of $1,000 immediately
a
Courtland Band furnished the music. Hackbarth won a tournee' against 7
for the occasion. matadores.
NEW ULM, BROWN COUNTY, MINNESOTA, WEDNESDAY, JULY 12, 1916.
It is possible that
club solo against matadores and Paul
S^U*12%BT
1 i- "'1 iiii. Ml I ii &kL -H&MiziiBLik
I RING BUT JUNK
SLEPT OF MACHINECampyBobleter
SOMSEN & EPPELUND VEELY IS
COMPLETELY DESTROYED
BY FIRE.
TROUBLE WITH CARBURETOR
CAUSES EXPLOSION AND
•i STARTS BLAZE.
Gone up in smoke! That's where the
Epplund and Somsen Veely car has gone
to. Evidently one of the immortal
gods thot it wasn't hot enuf with the
temperature hovering around ninety
degrees and did his best to make it
warmer, for on Monday afternoon when
Stanis Sperl took the Veely out for a test,
she began to back fire with the result
that eije long nothing remained but a
smoking heap of debris. The accident
happened on the Sleepy Eye road about
two miles from New Ulm.
Monday afternoon the car was brot
to Mr/Sperl by Mr. Somsen, who stated
that she had been "popping" while he
was but. Stanis looked the car over
and after, he had adjusted everything to
his satisfaction, he took the machine
out,fer-jthe test. He had driven about
two and one half miles out of town and
was on the return trip. When the other
side of the Loretto Hospital the car
buretor, began to backfire and wishing
to find the trouble Sperl immediately
stopped the car and opened the hood.
At .'first he,could see nothing and after
opening the carburetor so that it would
let out gas it again backfired but this
time the sparks found a leak in the
emergency'-gas tank. Immediately a
big blaze was raging and as he had
nothing with which to extinguish it he
began,to pile sand on it. Seeing that
his efforts were fruitless he tried to get
under the car so as to shut the gasoline
tank but he had just put his head under
wshegL there was another loud report and
}mi$$fs broke out under1 the calf.~ .-
Clarence Gieseke who happened to be
driving by was immediately sent to
town for aid, He reported the accident
to Mr. Somsen who.sent Roy Berg out
with pyrene fire extinguishers. When
Roy arrived the sight that, greeted his
eyes was appalling. Imagine a car
standing in the road, ablaze from top to
bottom. The. extinguishers were put
into action and the control of the fire
was apparently well under way. After
emptying, one of the pyrenes it looked
as4f the fire was out but as soon as the
administering of the chemical was
stopped the blaze broke out anew. The
other chemical was also brought into
action and again after it was used and
the fire seemed to be out, it broke out
-afresh. And then, the chemicals being
exhausted there was nothing to., .dq but
watch it burn.
Sperl when interviewed said that he
had concluded that the cause of the fire
"breaking out again was that the glass on
the carburetor had been broken by a
small stone which may have been among
the gravel which he threw on at first to
put the fire out.
Nothing remained of the fittings of the
car and everything that would burn was
consumed with the exception of the tires
which the men succeeded in removing.
Three of them are practically as good
as they were before the fire and the
fourth is scorched in a few spots.
Mr. Sperl seems cut up about the
accident as this was the first car he has
lost by fire altho he has. had several
occasions where fire broke out while he
was driving. He always succeeded in
smothering the fire with sand and if the
glass over the carburetor had not broken
he might have saved the machine this
time.
The car was a 1914 model and cost
$1500 when new. The owners carried
insurance on
Sergr^
BAND MASTER VISITS HOME.
Capt. Jos. Hofmeister was in the city
Frida for a few hours returning to
the same afternoon. In
speaking about the band situation he
told a Review reporter that he was quite
confident that he jvoiild(have no trouble
whatever to retain the 2nd Regiment
Band for.New Ulm and that this was the
main reason for his staying by the ship
as he could have received his honorable
discharge as readily as the others did.
FRIGHTENED TEAM
NEARLY KILLS MAN
ADOLPH FALK OF MILFORD HAS
SPINE FRACTURED IN RUN
AWAY.
HOPES ENTERTAINED FOR HIS
RECOVERY. PARALYSIS
LEAVING.
Among the accidents which marked
the week, the most serious was that
which occurred to Adolph Falk, one of
the best known of Milford's farmers. Mr
Falk very nearly lost his life when a
young horse became frightened and ran
away, running Mr. Falk down and
dragging a hay loader over his prostrate
form, resulting in a fracture of the back
bone low down and complete paralysis
of the lower extremities. At the present
writing Mr. Falk is somewhat improved
and the accident which at first was ex
pected to end fatally, is now regarded
as not being so serious, altho serious
enough, indeed.
The misfortune happened Monday
afternoon about two o'clock. The team
had been hitched up to go to the field
for hay. Mr. Falk's 19 year old son
was driving and Mr. Falk himself was
at the head, of the fractious animal to'
quiet him. The horse grew more un
manageable and started to run, ihe
crying out to his father to let go 'h,
Falk felt that he must hold the team
loader yfiieh wasr fastenedijehlnd'the
wagon passed over his body, breaking
the backbone at the waist line! He was
taken to the house arid medical aid sum
moned from New Ulm and the situation
at first looked very grave! It was not
until Tuesday that any hopes were held
out for his recovery. It then became
apparent that the spinal cord had riot
been so badly injured as was at first
supposed and the paralysis of the limbs
began to leave. Slight hopes were
entertained that he might effect a com
plete recovery.
Mr. Falk has lived for many years
Milfqrd. He is a man of middle age
and: has a family consisting of a wife
and three children. Their home is
about four miles from town.
HONOR DECEASED MEMBER
-The Suftday shoot at Hunters Rest
was marked by the honor paid to the
late Ernst.Brandt when the members
ofthe Club each fired a shot on the King
.target in memory' of him. He had been
one of the first to be interested in the
formation of the Club a^id was a member
all these years of its existence. The
scores of the day were as*follows:
*rn?r
King Man
H. J. Meyer. 172 110
H. Gebser 168 129
Jos. Klaus. 165 92
Paul VJDSS 157 113
Geo. Jahnke. 145 107
Wm. Pfaender, Jr 123 127
Chas. Hauenstein 116 138
And. Siebl. 97 77
Ben Marti, a youngster who wanted
to catch a ride on the Heinen mail wagon
last Saturday came near getting a cracked
skull. He did not choose his seat with
care and caught his feet in the moving
wheel and was pulled from the side of the
wagon, getting quite a bump.
Vict°r»—
NUMBER 28
UNJUST CRITICISM
RESENTED BY BAND
RETURNING MEN FEEL QUITE
JUSTIFIED IN COURSE THEY
FOLLOWED.
DESIRE FAIR TREATMENT AT
HANDS OF THEIR FELLOW
CITIZENS.
Ever since their return from Camp
Bobleter, the men of the Second Regi
ment band who decided that it would
be better for them not to continue in the
service have been subjected to a great
deal of adverse criticism. This adverse
criticism has not only manifested itself
by word of mouth but has also found
it's way into print. Obloquy has been
heaped upon them and epithets have
been applied to them which these men
resent in the most emphatic terms.
Possibly many of those who have been
most severe in their criticism are not
fully acquainted with the facts and if
they knew all the facts their demeanor
toward the band boys would change
materially, might possibly be seversed
entirely. The Review has been asked
topublish thefacts and will leave it to
a fair-minded public to judge from the
statements as here presented whether or
not the! criticisms are justified.
It should be borne in mind at all
times that the band boys cannot be put
into the same class with the men who
have joined the other military organi
zations, because the latters' duties re
quire them to tote a gun and be ready
to shoot and be shot at whenever oc
casion arises!c bringing on hostilities
between, this country and any other
country. The band boys on the other
hand are not by nature be supposed to
belongi. to the pugnacious and fighting
iriTu^ls Their.main business is to furnish
|c, the best that .they can famish by
app^%^rai^5^?|fa^ti^y afld-per
sistently. It not urifrequently happens.,
that a man may have. !the!C«5eateafc,
haturat abilities as a.musician jand!!.be in
every other way unfit for actual military
service.
That was the situation wjien the 2nd
Regiment Band Was organized in the
city of New Uhri some 18 years ago.
Most of the members were musicians
pure and simple arid very little attention
Was paid to their fitness for military
service. When ever their, terms of en*
listment expired they were hnportuned
to again enlist, because their dropoitefc
out inight endanger the existence of the
band altogether. With very law ex
ceptions! the members always alb^sd
themselves to be swayed by these arma
ments. Tljey knew that the band w1»
a valuable asset to the city of New Ulm
and as loyal citizens to their hdme town
they again and again allowed- thjnv
selves to be burdened with the duties of a
member of a band that until a tew y&r$
ago received scant, if any, .recognition
from the citizens at large.
When the orders for mobil&catfcm
came the time of four of the men had
expired. They were Tony Henfe,
Albert Gag, George Gag and Ed. Vogrf.
Their.time, had expired somejtime
May and on account of headquarters
being transferred to Faribault, the matter
of re-enlisting had been overlooked al
together and it was quite the natural
thing for these four men to consider
themselves out of the service.
Ed. Vogel was importuned to re»en
list, because the band was short of
bass players and he consented to do so
if the directors of the State Bank raised
no objections to his going and would
keep his place open for him. This the
directors were willing to do, provided
arrangements could be made to have
Peter Kitzberger, who is also employed
in the bank, excused from going. There
was another reason why Kitzberger
(Continued on last page.)
^»«M»**
an Char,i
Si
".i
js^/^vy
nen
Hardeeker, Carl Hein,
