THE BARM BAIEY TIME
VOL. XX NO. 100.
BAH HE, VERMONT. WEDNESDAY, JULV 12. 1916.
PRICE, ONE CENT.
BRITISH
FORCED
BACK
Heavily Reinforced Germans
Delivered Strong Attacks
on the. Somme Front Last
Nipht and Regained Some
Ground in Mametz and
Trones Wood, London Ad
mits
ALL OTHER ATTACKS
WERE REPULSED
A German Submarine At
tacked the English Coast
Town of Seaham Harbour
and Threw Shrapnel, Kill
ing: a Woman French
Gain Slightly on Verdun
Front
London, July 12. The Germans, heav
ily reinforced, delivered strong attacks
against the British on the Somme front
last night. They gained gTound in Ma-
meti and Trones wood, the official an
nouncement says. All other attacks were
beaten off.
AUSTRIAN'S EVACUATE
TOLMINO POSITION
Pans Gets Report that Indications Seem
to Toint to Such Condition
Resistance Has Been Less
and Less.
Pans. July 12. According to dia
patch from the Italian front, the Aus
trian appear to have evacuated. Tolmino
on the Jsonzo front. The correspondent
say tliat the activity of the Austrian
in that region is frit less and less.
GERMANS NEARER
SOUVILLE AND
LAUFEE WORKS
Eerlin Official Statement Claims Capture
of 39 Officers and 2,100 Men in
Tuesday's Fighting.
Berlin, via London, July 12. German
troops on the right bank of the river
Meuse yesterday pushed forward their
positions to a point neurer the Souville
and La u fee works, taking 3D officers and
2,100 men, says the official statement.
BREMEN IS
EXPECTED
Second German Merchant
Submarine Is Believed
to Be Near
TUG TIMM0NS
PREPARES TO LEAVE
AMERICAN VESSEL HIT.
Steamer Gold Shell, Badly Damaged,
Reached Port.
Paris. Julv 12. The American steam
ship Gold Shell, with a cargo of oil,
struck a mine Monday night and was
badlv damaged. She was kept afloat un
til she entered the mouth of the Gironde,
where she is being lightered.
The Gold Shell struck the mine CO
miles west of the Island of Cordovan.
The forward part of her hull was partly
wrecked. The Gold Shell siiled from
New Orleans June 20 mid Newport News
June 27, for Bordeaux. She is owned in
Xew York.
Meanwhile the Deutschland
Is Getting Ready to
Leave Port
READY TO ATTACK
GERMAN FLANKS
Anglo-French Armies Are in Position to
Do Damage British Forces Now
Occupy More Advantageous
Positions.
London, July 12. Although the ex
tent of ground pained by the British of
fensive is not great, there is general sat
isfaction in England at the success at
tained by the army of General Haig dur
ing the 12 days' fighting, and the belief
exists that the advantageous position
now occupied will make possible greater
achievements.
In the, operations south of the river
the French are in a position somewhat
eimilar to the British and likewise can
afct8ck the German flank. For the mo
ment, however, the two armies are en
gaged in preparing new positions.
Meanwhile the (iermans, renewing at
tacks on Verdun, captured the, Damloup
battery, which they held for a time
i early in June.
In the eaat, the Russians are engaged
in heavy battles in the extreme north
western corner of Bukowina, where they
: are inflicting further defeat on the army
' of General Palanger, now cut off from
General Von Bothmer'a forces to the
north, and also along the Stokhod river,
where the Austrian and Germans are
putting up a formidable resistance.
TEUTONS MAKING STAND.
Are Putting Up Desperate Fight on Styr
River.
Petrograd, via London. July 12. Ger
man reinforcements, with powerful artil
lery, thrown forward in an effort to save
Kovel, have enabled the Auatro-Germans
to make the first serious stand on this
front since their overthrow by General
Kaledines, a week ago, on the Styr river.
The Teutonic forces are now offering
desperate resistance to the Russian ad
vance, and fighting in the entire Stokhod
region continues, the war office an
nounced yesterday.
The Russian drive against the Ger
man line on both sides of the. Kovel
Sarny railroad had tho desired effect of
stopping the German's offensive against
Lutsk from the directions of Kovel and
Vladimir-Volvnski, and enabled the Rus
Norfolk, Va., July 12. It is reported
that the tug Toinas J". Timmons, which
met the undersea liner Deutschland on
her arrival oil Baltimore, in preparing to
leave that city soon tor the Virginia
capes. home believe the tug is unuer
order to meet the German super-submarine
Bremen which is reported en
route to the I'nited States.
Baltimore, Md., July 12. Confident
that the efforts of the diplomatic represen
tative of the entente allies to have Ins
vessel classed as a warship and interned
will prove unavailing Captain Paul Koe
nig, muster of the German submarine
Deutscliland, is preparing to leave port
on his return voyage within ten days.
( apt a in koenig expressed satisfaction
when informed that, three American n
merchantman character of our boat
should be established beyond doubt
; insisted that the captain of the Deutaeh
land should not even carry the customary
revolver upon leaving Bremen.
t'nder these circumstances, he contend
ed, there is nothing to prevent tha
Deutschland, exclusively a merchantman
from remaining as long as ahe pleases in
a neutral harltor and loading cargo of
fuel and supplies free from the reatric
tions which prevented warships from en
tering a neutral port except under stre,
or remaining over 1:4 hours.
"I conceived the idea of breaking t
Britihh blockade long ago," continued
llerr lhmann. "Rut the project firs
took definite shape last autumn, when
succeeded in convincing the capitalists
associated with me the Deutsche bank
and the .Vorddeutsche Lloyd that the
war presumably wonlfl last mother it
months. This was tr.e hardest part n
my task. Once this was done the ret
was easy, for our figures showed that
the boats would more than pay for them
selves in a single mp.
A company was immediately ineor
porated as the 'German Ocean Navigw
tion company of llrsmen with a nonn
'nsl capital. . Articles were riled on No
I vember 8 and work was commenced on
the first and second boats. The Deutch
land was completed some time ago, and,
after successful trials in Im Baltic atart
ed for America following the usual peace
route of our Bremsn and Hamburg
steamers.
Herr Lchmann now believes that the
war will be terminated before next
spring ami that the submarine freighters
will have an opiortuiiitv to make many
profitable voyages bsore they are faced
with competition of surface freighters
The Deutschland and her sister ship
are 2.000, ton boats B,tw sen four snd five
hundred tons of cargo can be earned. The
fuel is largely carried in ballast and the
dyeing tanks, wnicn are nned witn sea
water as the oil is conmmed. The return
of the Deutschland will be made the oc-
val officers, who yesterday inspected the icasion of a great celebration and banquet
IVutsehland to de'tei mine'her status, had ! at Bremen. This wilj be the formal cele-
reported in effect that nut only was she I "ration of the re-opeirtng of direct Uer-
an unarmed merchant vessel now, but man-.-merican iraae reunions.
was so constructed that she could not be
onverted into a war craft without vir
tually being rebuilt. Captain Koenig
said he could only reiterate that the
Deutschland, like ether submarines built
for Germany's new underseas merchant
fleet, was designed solely as a freight
carrier.
At least eight of these vessels, it waa
authoritatively learned here, now are
building at Kiel, and with these in ad
dition to the Deutschland and the Bre
men, already en route for an American
port, Germany expects, in a measure, to
re-establish her lost commerce and mail
communication with the rest of the
world.
The torpedo being a submarine's es-
EPIDEMIC STRIKES
VERMONT; ONE CASE
Child in Burlington it Affected with
What is Thought to Be In
fantile Vaulysls.
Burlington, Julv 12. What is thought
to ls the first case of poliomyelitis, or in
fantile paralysis, to appear in the state
of Vermont this year -was quarantined
by Health Officer i.nni yesterday aft
trnoon at 131 Park street in this city
The patient is Marshall Freeman, a little
sential weapon, to make her effective as ! fur-year-old boy in the Jemilr of V. C.
BIG BATTLE
IN PROGRESS
Carranza and Villa Forces
Clashing at Carro
Garcia
HEAVY FIGHTING
IS REPORTED
VERM0NTERS TANNED
LIKE MEXICANS
General Trevino at Chihua
hua City Gets Message
to That Effect
Wind and Sun Have Browned Their Skin
Writes Edwards There Has Been
Very Little Illness Thus Far.
EAGLE PASS, TEX.. Jt'LY fi. 101ft,
We had our first rsin storm In eight
months here yesterday, with a sum
storm which lasted for two hours. ThW
is the worst experience we have had since
we have been here. About 1 O'clock
commenced and continued until 3 o'clock
J he wind blew a hurrtiMinc, the rain
came down like a sheet and the hoys had
to sit on the wills inside the tnts to
hold them in place, and even then many
tents were blown down. The sand cut.
like glass. The desert was transformed
into a hard cement and was verv hard to
walk around on. At night Co. E. K, G
and It went out for outpost duties, re
turning about ft o clock.
On the desert we see all kinds of rep
tiles, such as rattlesnakes, horned toads
lizards, tarantulas, and other poisonous
reptiles.
The bovs are ill in fine health and look
like the Mexicans, the sun has tanned
them so. We have had verv little sick
C!hihuahita Citv, Mexico, July 12.
Heavy fighting is in progress between
the troops of the de facto government news in camp so far. James Wood, whose
under General Ernesto G-ircia snd a large
force of v ilia bandits at Carro Garcia, a
few miles below Parral, according to de
spatches to General Trevino to-day.
El Paso, Tex., July 12. The main MI-
lista command which was beaten off in
in attack upon Parral yesterday, had
the double purpose of looting the prop-
rtiea of the Alvarado Mining Milling
company, an American concern there, and
folks live in Brre, former conk for Co
H, has been promoted to quartermaster
eerprant. All for now.
Sincerely yours,
A. G. Fd wards,
1st Vermont Infantry.
P. S. The Mexican people here are
half starved. At mess time one can see
the Mexican children with pails and
spoons going from one company street
to another, collecting the refuse and eat
ing same. They act as though they had
cizing a quantity of government ammu
nition stored in the town, according to not seen meat for six months
private despatches here last night. The
bandits are rapidly running short of am
munition.
STREET CAR HIT AUTO.
a war craft, it was the possibility that Salter, who is very ill witji the disease,
the Deutschland might be pierced for tor-i but who was thought by the attending
sians to take the offensive and to drive ,-pedo tubes. That was the chief concern cf physician yesterday to be doing as well
n . . A im n n 1,A C.LV.nl rt 1, a 1 . U : ...1 ,..11 . I. . . ,. 1 .i t.. .. . i 1. 1 1
Captain C. F. Hughes, who inspected the The little boy was taken en Monday
vessel. .Not, only were none found but an Jand Dr. . 11. Clancey s called Mon
examination of the forward part of the i day evenings' Yesterday morning he
vessel's hull where torpedo tube natur-jagain visited the boy and. diagnosed tbe
any would be located revealed, it wa tease as infantile paralysis. Dr. Edward
learned, tiiat the structure was not sub- j Tay lor, who is doing research work at
stantial enough to contain them. Be-it he laboratory st wie Medical college on
fore the Deutschland could be armed j noliumvclitis under the direction of the
SURFACE ATTACK
WAS CONDUCTED
BY SUBMARINE
i Threw 30 Rounds of Shrapnel at Seaham
Harbour and Killed a Woman
One House Struck By
Shell.
London, July 12. The English port of
Peaham Harbour wa attacked last night
by a German submarine. About 30
rounds of shrapnel were fired. One worn-
i an was killed and one house was struck
' by a shell.
GERMAN AEROPLANES
DROPPED BOMBS '
ON CALAIS PORT
Berlin Officially Announces That Missiles
Were Thrown on Army En
campments. Berlin, by wireless. July 12. Two Ger
man seroplanes made an attack on the
channel port of Calais Monday night, it
was announced officially to-day. They
dropped bombs on the port and army encampments.
the enemy across the Stokhod to the.
northwest, and westward toward Vladi
mir- Volvnski.
Svidniki and Mosor, where a fierce bat
tle is in progress, a mentioned in the
official communication Monilav, are on
the west bank of the Stokhod, on either
side of the Rovno-Kovel rnilroad.
Further to the left of this widening
circle of the battle line, beyond Lutsk,
the Russians are launching sledge ham
mer blows in the vicinity of Kiselin and
Zubilno, before Vladimir Volvnski
whence Archduke Joseph Ferdinand, the
Austrian commander-in-chief, transferred
his headquarters after" his army was
crushed at Lutsk.
At the present writing, according to
the military critics, there now remain no
more natural barriers between the Rus
sian lines and Kovel in the shape of
rivers and swamps. It is predicted that
early news may be expected of assault
upon the recently constructed German
fortifications before Kovel.
The approximate total of prisoners
taken by the Russians during General
Bmsiloff'g operations up to Julv 10
amounts to 5.fi20 officers and 2fH,ono
men. the war office announced yesterday.
Guns to the number of 312 and 866 ma
chine guns have been captured.
22,000 PRISONERS.
like a German naval submarine, cntno
re-construction forward would be neces
sary.
Captain Hughes and his associates
were given the entire freedom of the
ship and there was no space within the
interior that they did not explore. The
Deutschland' commander was not pres
ent during the examination.
Captain Hughes and his assistants
spent more than two hours in the vessel.
Captain Hughee declined to discuss what
he had seen, but said that not only did
the young officer who escorted them
through the boat freely answer all ques
tions but even volunteered information.
"H was proud of his vessel and I
don't blame him," said Captain Hughes.
"It is a wonderful piece of mechanism
and a monument to German inventive
genius.
Captain Koenig meanwhile was taking
luncheon at a local hotel with a partv
of officials of the North German Lloyd,
German-Americans of local prominence
TWO ONSLAUGHTS
BY THE GERMANS
WERE CHECKED
Attacks Were Directed at French Posi
tion Near Dead Man's Hill, East of
the Meuse The French Re
captured Part of Ground
Lost Tuesday.
PasU, July 12. The German dt-liv-i
ered two attacks last night on a French
position in the neijrhborhool of IVad
; Man's hill on the Verdun front. The
I ir (iff announcement to-day says that
; both thes assaults failed, breaking down
tinder the French fire
Eaet of the Meue .he French r-tvk
yart of tie ground, wn yesterday by ihe
Germar! In tVe operation esst of the
. Meuse the Fren-h took VI prisoners. Tb
Frencb conduct e1 successful raids id
'flsiMpit and LcrTmite.
Have Been Taken in the Anglo-French
Drive. ,
London, July 12. The British gains in
the battle of the Somme after ten days
continuous fighting cover a front of near
ly eight miles and include the entire Ger
man first system of defense, according to
the official report forwarded by General
Haig, the British eomTnander-in-chief on
the French front. This advance includes
a number of small towns or villages and
positions which are considered of great
strategic importance. The British a i
vance extended into the German posi
tions for a depth of 2,000 to 4,000 yards
Many of the villages were 6trongly for
tified, the woods were full of trenches
and surrounded by barbed wire, and what
General Haig describes as "immensely
strong redoubts had to be carried by
storm.
At the same time the French army
under General Foeh has moved up ,u
the southern section of the Somme ur,
til it now holds the dominating hills
around Peronne, a town which has been
strongly fortified by the Germans and
the possession of which they are likely
to contest with the utmost determina
tion. The British have retaken Contalmaison
and are at'ain in control of nearly the
entire extent of Trones wood and M.t
metr wood. There has been desperate
fighting in both these sectors for sev
eral days past.
The French along the Somme carried
out some minor detached operation which
enabled them to strenthen their position
at La Maisonette, and apparently the
French are waiting for the British to
straighten out their line before making
the attempt to drive the Germans out of
Peronne.
In this great battle about 22.000 pris
oners have been taken bv the Krancj-
British forces, of whom the Britu-h an
nounce they have captured TVo.
state board of health, also visited the
case and while more tests will be made
to affirm the diagnosis he is also of the
opinion that the case is infantile para
lysis. As vet only the legs of the littli'
fellow have been effected, he not being
able to walk but a few steps. Dr. En-
nis quarantined the house yesterday aft
ernoon.
There has been one other suspected
case in the state, which has not yet,
proved to be infantile paralysis.
Every precaution which can be taken
to protect, the ravages of poliomyelitis is
being worked out by the local health
officer under the direction of the local
board of health and with the assistance
of the state b-iard of health, Dr. Ennis
has quarantined in all about a dozou
places in this city where children have
come from Xew York to get away from
the disease, there not being any cases hi
any of these houses, the purpose being
to isolate the children from children in
this citv with whom thev micht come
But Rev. James Ramage and Daughter
Were Not Hurt.
Rev. James Ramage, while backing out
of his garage on upper u ashington street
his noon in his Ford machine, was
truck by the 12: 15street car coming down
Washington street. His daughter. Miss
Elsie Ramage, was in the car with him
nd sat on the side that -was struck.
Xeither of them was hurt. The Ford
however, did not fare so fortunately, and
the hood, radiator and mud guard on the
side that was hit were badlv smashed.
The street car wa uninjured, except for
a bent fender.
When the electric car hit the automo
bile, it was traveling at a good speed, and
before it could be stopped dragged the
light machine some 20 feet. People who
saw the accident say that the escape of
the occupants of the automobile was
miraculous.
Motorman Lothrop savs that he was
coasting along the street and saw the
automobile backing out of the yard, snd
be both rang his bell and yelled to the
TWO BAND CONCERTS
WERE ORDERED
BY COUNCIL
After Rejecting the Recommendation of
the City Meeting to Contract with
Citiieos' Band, City Fathers
Decided to Negotiate with
Columbus Band.
After voting not to carry out the rec
ommendation of the city meeting of May
7 to sign a contract with the t itizens
band for a series of Ifi band concerts, the
city council in special session last night
instructed the mayor to execute a con
tract with the Christopher Columbus
band for two concerts at a price not
greater than usually rmd. The action
followed a brief and not so spicy a dis
cussion as usual on the band question,
the matter having been taken up afU'r
the regular aldermanic session.
The discussion went like this:
Alderman Rossi, consulting a calendar
Fourteen more concerts would enrrv it
to the second week in October; too late;
VERMONTERS
GATHERED IN
MONTPELIERi
To Attend the Annual Meet
ing of the Greater Ver-j
mont Association and to
Observe 125th Anniver
sary of Admission of Ver-'
mont into the Union
EX-GOVvAlTH TOLD :
P VERMONT NEEDS-
John Barrett, Director 'of
Pan-American Congress,
Told of Vermont's Possi
bilitiesPhilip K. Gleed
and Admiral Peary Were
Others on the Program
j tj -j 4. . ., , , too cold; people wouldn t attend,
driver. He aaid the automobile stopped ,,, ' , , . . , . .
. j . 4, . j,; ,. itL Alderman Healy: "I think two concerts
ana he supposed the driver was waiting , .
!. - , , - , . a week would be nice."
for him to pass before backing complete
ly into the street, as auto drivers ire
accustomed to. Instead of that, the auto
started again and after getting into the
highway wung around so that the two
vehicles met, head-on.
Alderman Shurtleff: "We want to go
to the movie some of the time.
Alderman Glysson: "I move that the
recommendations of the citv meeting be
carried out."
Alderman Shurtleff : "We'll have to re
scind the previous motion" (to sign con
tract with the two bands, the Omens'
for 14 concerts and the Columbus for
Jitney Landed in Gutter.
A jitney belonging to a man named
Stacy came to grief on the Monfpelier twol.
road near Jones Brothers' stoneshed last Alderman Rossi: "Thev sav the Citi
night when it left the road and plunged lens' band is no more."
nto the gutter. There were no passen
gers and Stacy was uninjured. The au
tomobile was removed late in the even
ing.
"To tell you
Alderman Glvsson:
squarely, I don't know."
Alderman Rossi: "People don t want
to stay out in the cold.
Alderman Glvsson: "Mv impression is,
Mr. Shurtleff, that the voters are higher
than the citv council. I think if we
Driver of Automobile Sustained Internal don't do what the voters direct we should
SKIDDED OVER BANK.
and their wives. He sat at the head of in contact and to whom thev mieht car
the table, and was on his feet instantly ry the disease without being ill with it
when the orchestra played "Die Wac-.ht themselves. They will bs so isolated un
Am Bhein," and arose no less quick! til the danger of'their spreading the dis
when the 'Star Spangled Banner" was esse has parsed. Dr. Ennis has also vis
played as the next select Mi. j ite-d the various camps in Colchester
about Malletts bay, and warned thoe
from Xew York, who are camping there,
to keep any possible carriers outside of
the limits of Burlington.
KEEPING DEUTSCHLAND SECRET.
United States Government Will Not Pub
lish Departure News.
Washington. D. C July 12. If the
news of the departure of the German
underwater liner Deutschland can be re
garded as military information of value
to Germany's enemies, the I'nited States,
in the interest of neutrality, will take
steps to prevent such information reach
ing them.
The official report of the naval and
customs officers who inspected the sub
marine and reported her an unarmed
merchantman will prolwbly be made pub
ic to-morrow. It already has been es
tablished to the satisfaction of the gov
ernment. The Deutschland s crew was
purely a merchant one.
SITUATION BETTER
IN NEW YORK
Injuries.
Rutland, July 12. Xeleon Babbitt of
5 Church street was quite seriously in
ured last night at about 9:30 o'clock
when the Ford touring car he was driv
ing, skidded, jumped a bank and turned
turtle at a point about a mile south of
the White farm on the Creek road. Ho
was taken to the Rutland hospital, wheis
he was attended by Dr. F. H. Gebhardt.
Mr. Babbitt, who is. about 22 years of
age, has been driving for the E. C. Xoyes
Taxucompany up to yesterday morning
wheh he took a new position. . He is in
ternally injured, the seriousness of
w'hich is not yet determined. . The car
was not badly damaged.
BERLIN IS PLEASED.
Over the Resumption of Commercial In
tercourse with America.
ARRESTED FOR SHOOTING DEPUTY.
John Edwards Accused of Wounding Joha
Black in Leg.
Woodland. Me. July 12. John Ed-iwill soon be adequate for the establish
Berlin, July 11, via London. July 12.
The opening of direct shipping connec
tions between Germany and the Lnited
tatesbv the submarine merchantman
Deutschland has ocassioned great jubi
lation and enthusiasm among Germans,
hut no one is more elated than Alfred
Iyohmann, ei-preeident of tJie Bremen
chamber of commerce and the originator
of an underwater service.
To the Associated Press Hprr Loh
mann said to day that the Deutschland
was only the first of a feet of subma
rine freighters and that a regular trans
Atlantic service with frequent sailings
would soon be in operation.
A second boat named the Bremen, be
added, is about to start for America
w it'll a cargo and a number of sister ship?
are rapiliy approaching completion. It
understood that the number of b-.ats
Only 17 Deaths and 162 New Cases Re
ported During the Past 24
Hours.
Xew York, July 12. Despite the worst
heat wave of the season, the epidemic of
infantile pars lysis took a turn for the
better to-day. During the 24 hours pre
ceding 10 o'clock this morning, only 17
deaths and 162 new cases were reported
in the city.
ird. a Baneor routh. was arreted here mnt of a weekly service.
last night, after he had woun-led leputy i -'Remember." said Herr Lohmann
Sheriff John B'ack Jn the bg with a re
volver ehot. Edward is said to be warn
ed in connection with several h'irj'aries,
lndudirc tr robbery of t'ae Fed Beacli
poetcSoa.
"thst the Deutschiand was entirely un
armed: ehe carried no torpedo tubes, no
cannon and no weipon of offense or de
fense of anr kind
FIREMEN FOUND DYNAMITE
In Close Proximity to Fire in New York
Subway., '
Xew York, July 12. Firemen lat
night fought their way through dense
smoke into the excavation for the new
dual subway system at Seventh avenue
and 23d street, and removed fiO or more
sticks of dynamite from close proximity
to a fire of undetermined origin.
Thousands of persons who bid gath
ered on the planking which covers the
excavation in Seventh avenue, became
panicky when they learned of the pres
ence of the explosives and in the rush
for safety many were knocked down and
trampled on.
GOT BULLET IN NECK.
CAN'T RECOVER DAMAGES.
Because He was Mistaken for a Squirrel
and Wounded.
Middlebury, July 12. A decision for
the defendant was rendered by the court
yesterday afternoon in the Addison coun
ty court case of Ira White against How
ard Lavarn, in which the plaintiff sought
to recover $2,000 for alleged gunshot
wounds received while he and Iavarn
were hunting. White claimed he was
mistaken for a squirrel-
The case began Monday afternoon. At
torney J. W. Page appeared for the
plaintiff and J. B. Donoway .for the defense.
give up our chairs."
Alderman Shurtleff: "Then it, was the
same when the band committee refused
to carry out the council's order: they
ouirht to have given up their chairs."
Alderman Rossi: "Once a city meeting
ordered an eight-hour day, but it wasn't
done."
Alderman Reynolds: "The man who
made the motion in the city meeting told
me he did not intend to tie the city
council's hande."
"Question! Question!" (Who's got
the question.)
Mayor Gordon had it and put it. Re
sult: Motion lost, viva voce.
Alderman Healy: "Move we adiourn."
L'p jumped John T. Callaghan. bearing
a weighty scroll. "Gentlemen," he said.
BLISS, TREASURER.
Cornelius N. Named for the Republican
National Committee.
Xew York, Julv 12. Cornelius X. Bliss
will be the next treasurer of the Repub
lican national committee, it was officially
announced to-day at the Hughes head
quarters.
DAN PATCH DEAD.
Pacing Stallion Held World's Sulky Rec
ord Sold for $60,000.
Minneapolis, Julv 12. Dan Patch, psc
Ing stallion owned by M. W. Savage of
Minneapolis, died of athletic heart at
the owner's farm at Savage, Minn., yes
terday. In 1IHH! he paced a mile over the
St. Paul track in 1:55, the world's ulkv
record. Dan Patch wi bought bv Sav-
, . , . . , ae for I6O.0O0. He was withdrawn from
Mrs. John Dukette of SouU. Royaltoii tr,fks MrrT rttn (ro.
Expected to Recover. , I
South Rovalton. .lu'v 12. Mrs. .John ' n zjuu ioi injur.es.
I have a petition asking you to carry
out the motion paesed by you some time
aoo (H-2 concertl: but I understand
the Citizens' bsn 1 is dead and can't carry
out a contract. He bore the petition
to the city clerk, who read that the peti
tioners thereon inscribed wished the city
council not to carry out the recommenda
tion of the city meeting because the
meeting was not advertised to take up
the band question and because of the
small number of voters present when the
vote was taken: moreover, the Columbus
band boys oucht to be encouraged. Clerk
Mackay started to read the names, but
finally a compromise was reached by
counting the names, which totaled 220.
Alderman Healy: "Move it be accepted
and placed on file."
Alderman Fos-si : Second the motion.
Alderman Rossi: "1 move the mayor
be instructed to execute a contract with
the Christopher Columbu band for two
concerts at a price not greater tSm the
usual rate."
On a viva voce vote put bv President j
Glysson of the aldermanic board. .Mayor
Gordon bein& named in the motion, the
vote was declared lost, two to one; and
at once a rolfcall i demanded. The
rollcall showed iiily and Glysson vot
ing "Xo" and Shurtleff. Reynolds, Rossi
and Gordon voting "Yes."
So the citv council mectmz oroke up
with one side of the table grinning at
the other.
The Short Aldermtnic Session.
A short session of the aldermen was
(Continued on eighth page J
In Probate Court.
With all of the larger cities and towns
of the state and many of the smaller
ones represented by good-sized delega
tus, and with many natives of Vermont)
prominent in the state and nation pres
ent as guests, the annual meeting of the
Greater Vermont association, for manv
months heralded as one of the notable
vents of the year, opened this afternoon.
t 2 o clock in the armory, Montpelier.
The meeting will last until Thursday
fternoon and special recognition will be
made of the 12.itii anniversary of the
joining of the union by Vermont.
President Frederick K. Babbitt of Bel-
ows Falls, who, with Secretary James P.'
Taylor of Burlington, lias been working
co-operation with the Montpelier
Board of Trade for many w eeks in prep-'
aration for the meeting, introduced Phil
ip K. Gleed of Kansas City, Mo., as th
first speaker of the afternoon. Mr..
Gleed, now the leading lawyer of his
city, was formerly a resident of Morris
ville and is present as the guet of Theo
dore X. Vail of Lyndonville. The other
speakers in tho order named were ex
Governor E. C. Smith of St. Albans,
president of the Central Vermont Rail
way company; Admiral Robert E. Pearv,
of the I'nited States navy; John Barrett,
director general of the Tan-American
congress. .Major (ieneral Leonard ooa
of the I'nited States armv was down on
the preliminary program for an address
thi-s afternoon but last evening wired to
President Babbitt that he would be un
able to come because of his duties. Carl
Vrooman, assistant secretary of agricul
ture, who had originally wired his ac
ceptance of an invitation, also notified
the officers of the association last even
ing that he would be unable to be pres
ent.
Bellows Falls, with a delegation of 60,
probably can boast of the biggest num
ber of representatives from any singlo
town anv considerable distance from
Montpelier, although Bennington and
Brattleboro sent nearly two score each.
The size of Brattleboro's delegation was
materially affected by the death of Mr.
Brackett, a prominent bank official of
that town.
Admiral Peary arrived in the city at 1
o'clock this afternoon, being the only;
one who gave an address this afternoon
who failed to arrive last, evening. :
At the banquet to be served in the.
auditorium this evening at 6:30 o'clock,'
George Harvey, editor of the Xorth :
American Review, will be toastmaster,
and preparations have been nwde to
serve "00 people. Applications for tick-i
ets for the dinner were rejected hat;
evening and had the officers realized that
so many more desired to be present over.
S00 could have been accommodated. The
speakers at the dinner will be Governor
Rolland H. Spaulding of N'ew Hampshire,
Governor Samuel W. MeCtall of Massa
chusetts, Edward A. Filene of the Boston,
Chamber of Commerce, President James
H. Hustis of the Boston A Maine system,
T. X. Vail of Lyndonville, president of;
the American Telephone k Telegraph
company; Judge Wendell P. Stafford,
judge of the supreme court of the Dis
trict of Columbia, a former resident of j
Rnire and St. .Tohnsburv. Amonff the '
guests will be Admiral Charles E. Clark,;
who arrived at Stowe last week, Govern
or C. W. (rites, a number of the former ;
governors of the state. Senators Y. P.
Dillingham and Carroll S. Page, member
of the Washington Vermont society andj
others prominent in state and national
affairs. Ex-Governor Smith's Address.
In his address this afternoon Presl
dent E. C. Smith said in part:
"The success of a state or nation de
pends upon tho character and morality ,
of its citizens. These two, character anil i
moralitv. have their foundation in the j
divine law. Constitutions, the common
law, statutes as enacted by the state and'
nations, are merely human efforts look- .
ire towards the expression of thst law.'
The degree in w hich such expressions are,
carried out, the quality of the impetus'
of advancement in civiliration. the degree
of the appreciation of the rights of thn
individuals who make up society, the
conformity of duty imposed by tfiesa'
richts between the members of a cor-,
munitv these measure the progress of
the state of ideal perfection. The con
tant aim of a tte should be the just
reecgnition of thee rights and the' ac
complishment of that duty. To depart
from thee ideals leads to the end of dis
aer, to temporize with them postpone,
their fulfi!mcnt.
T take it that the purpose of thia or
ganization is to rtpvpiop a greater v er
mon along these lines, even as laid down
Dukette ws accidentally shot
in tVe The suit of
"?- anxious wa I that the unarmed Iieved thit the wound will prove fataL
In probate court. Mrs. MVd H. Bos- ;M- those who prepared the war for us in
Ka ftAttleri her acroiirts aft l(fflin. . tVrmnnt tS-t the Heal nnon wfcieti tKi
rK- ri..i. ...itLintri of the es'ite of '".wr R. Bos- 1 o'snization is predicated is not material)
neck yesterday afternoon when her sor. Louis Canales. both of Parre. has been I worth, late of ttarr; and Flhert I. Oaf - J prosperity nor temporary advancement
Ray. wa cleaning a revolver. The bill- entered in Washington cotintv court, the lin of Rando'ph has sett 1-4 hi a. counts , mer-ly. but te ld-al of equal justi-e to
let entered at the Ksk of the neck, pa- plaintiff uing to recover 2.ooj f-r in-jas guardian of Elmer F. Forythe. a all its c ti ens. Tb: organization looks
near the er'nat cora. It i nM he- iur-.e said Is tiara hean reoiii in a minor, ot orrnnria. ana n orrn ais-
lrg
tune
f W s vcej encetisle;
nth the defendant. charged.
iCont'Ti-al on fourth pag.) .
t
