VOU XX (.AIJRENS, SOUTH CAROLINA, WDNSDA-, JUL 12,916. BE
GERMAN MERCHA
CROSSES OC
Reaches Baltimore Sunday
Morning
CHEMICALS AND
MAIL IN HER CARGO
Epoch-3larking Event in History of
'1'rainasportation. Undersea ('raft
Passed Blockading Sqiuadrons and
Steered ('lear of Floating Mines.
Baltimore, Mid., July 9.-The world's
first submarine merchantman, the
German underwater liner )eutsch
land, anchored below Baltimore to
night after coming safely across the
Atlantic, passing the allied blockad
ing squadrons and eluding enemy
cruisers watching for her off the
American coast. She carries mail and
a cargo of 750 tons of costly chemi
cals and dyestuLts and is to carry
back home a similar amount of nickel
and crude rubber sorely needed. by
the German army,
Sixteen lays out from B remer
haven to lBaltimore, the su bmarine
reached the Virginia capes at 1:15
o'clock this morning, passing in on
the surface covered by darkness
which selled over the entrance of the
bay with the setting of the moon.
Once inside the visitor threw caution
aside and began shrieking his siren,
signaling a pilot and at the same time
attracting the attention of the tug
1'homas F. 'i'Imnmins which had been
waiting in the lower bay for nearly
two weeks to greet the Deutschland
and convoy her into port.
Three hours later the big sub
marine started up the bay with the
German merchant flag flying under
her own power, piloted by Capt. Fred
erick D. Cocke of the Virginia Pilot's
association and convoyed by the Tim
mins. She was making more than 12
knots an hour and could have docked
in Baltimore tonight, but arrange
ments had been made for receiving
her with formal ceremonies tomor
row and her captain was ordered to
wait in the lower barbor. He and
his crew of 29 men remained aboard
their crat't.
,Sent No Notice.
Regarding his vessel as a mer
chantman subject to no unusual re
strictions, the skipper, whose name is
said to be Capt. Kairig, went up to
Chesapeake without waiting to notify
local customs and quarantine ollicers
of his presence. lie was live hours
away before Norman lamilton, col
lector of Norfolk-Neivport News,
heard the news and started on his
trail aboard the coast guard cutter
Onondaga. At last reports tonight
the cutter had not approached the
submarine, and it is understood that
she merely was ordered out to keep
tihe strange craft under surveillance
as a neutrality precaution. Quaran
tIne and port regulations will be coo
Uille'd w ithi when t he vessel mioves upI
to her dock tomorrow.
I t tie wa is knlown. herye ton ight
about whaiLt happILened~ dluring tile
epoch-making cruise, wihichi, itn a
simallI measure at. least, breaks thle
biockade on German trade with the
rest of the world. None o't the sub
umarne's crew had landed and the
agentis of her owners had received
ontly uieagrec repaorts. Suich in lorma
tion as5 wa.Is avilable' camle lndlirectly
from the iiilot and fronm Capt. I lans
F. I linach of the North German
L~loyd liner Neckar, laid up here since
he beginning of the watr. Capt.
lnsch boarded tho Deutschland
ronm the Timmins and made the tii
p the bay with her.
According to thme accounts reaching
ore, the undersea liner's super
ructure w.'as a'mnding 15 feet above
o watr ' when sihe came In. Until
yiight she showed no flag, but the
rman mzehiant ensign was raisedi
attn up. htouies were circuilated
t British or French cr'ulsers chased
at. sea Thursday, but could not
confirmed.
he boat Is consigned to A;.9)
elher & Co., local agents ~oti.tl6
'th German Lloyd line; and her
go to the Eastern Forwarding
p'any, said' to have been organized
iGn the past fe* weeks especially
,updle the business of underwater
*a . Tne latter comnpany has a
and warehouise in which are
)'d goods to' be loidedl on the
schlanid for hek return trip.
NT SUBMARINE
EAN TO AMERICA
In German qtuarters here the news
of the suibmarine's arrival was hailed
With th le keenest del ight. T1hose who
knew of (.I coiing, had been con
er:lin g ai'rrm for two or three days,
as she was lue to arrive about the
the middle of last week.
I t is understood that she traveled
no're than 1,000 miles, going some
300 miles out of her course to avoid
eneily :,hips.
iBrand New ('4rrier...... ..
The I eutschland is no converted
warcra:t, hut a brand new commerce
carrier, owned in Blerlin and sent here
on a purely commercial mission, ac -
cording to lenry (. Iiliken, senior
mem her of the Schumacher concern,
Sue belongs to the Ozean Rhederei,
Limited (Ocean Navigation company,
Limited), and was launched at Kiel
in March.
The novel project. was conceIved
about nine months ago, Mir. Milken
said, by F. A. Lohmann, head of a
Iireiien exporting and in mportIng11
concern, Wlko organized the Ocean
Navigation company. Mlr. liohmanin
is the son of a former director g(n
oral of tlie North Germian Lloyd
Steamshiip coipany and has import
ani (ernan coi miercial interests as
sociated with him.
The undersea liner, ir. Iiilken un
derstanuds, is about 315 feet long and
30 feet beam and is propelled by two
great i)einel oil engines. She is as
large if not larger than any of the
German naval submarines. As to de
tails of her construction, Mr. Iilken
sa-.. ' ._ lacking in Int'ormation.
"Mlost of the information that was
sent to me," he said, "is probably
carefully tucked away In a pigeon
hole of the British admiralty ofice,
but I don't care now. The .Deutsch
land is..here nevertheless."
Mr! iilken is an American and his
firm has been in business here oper
ating ships under the American flag
since 1824.
Carl A. Luederitz, the German con
sul, is a member of the firm.
When the )eutschland will return,
or whether it is planned to have her
make regular trans-Atlantic trips, Mr.
Ililken refused to discuss.
Anxious to Trade.
"This project was conceived," lie
said, "by German commercial interests
who wanted to reopen trade with the
United States. It is a purely com
mercial proposition and that is all
there is to it.'
If present plans are carried out, the
public will not be allowed to inspect
the undersea wonder, nor will any
body except tie federal atlhorities be l
allowed te hoard her.
The pier of the Eastern Forwarding
con);Ianiy was boarded , up today to
shut out the view of the curious and
the Schumacher firm arranged to sir
roun d the pier tomorrow morning
withi a cordon of police.
Six month ls ago came first reports
that (ermiany was prepariing to1 put
inito the tranis-Atlanii trade a line
of subumari ines that. woulId dwarif ini
size and achievements the tI-boats
which have been Glermanya chief re
Ilance in her conduct of wai' at sea,
Iiiiondo enle r'eports toild of the or'
ganizatlion of a ('ompjaiiy to inaugu
rnate such a service and E~nglish ex
ports were quoted as saying they felt
n10 suiisie at the announcement of
the plans,
Sends Cakes to Boys.
Determined that the Lauriens boys
at Camp Mooi'e shouild fare as well or
better than those of any other com
pany, several movements have been
undler way to provide them with soe
of the little luxuies of life wvhichi the
govei'rnent does not put on the daIly
bili of fare. Trho latter parit of last
week, the young ladies of the var'ious
chuirches baked cakes for them and
sent thleml down Friday, Enlough cakes
wer'e sent to providle a i'eal feast foi'
the boys foi' a short time at least. Yes
,t~rday a wft'dSas being raised among
the busin'ensgen of the city which wili
be dent' down for the boys to use ac
cording to their own dlesires.
Wants Him to Run.
The friends of J. 4 Idwin, recog
nizing his WQdth as a &itizen, desire
that he malAthe race. to1t magIstrate
pf Sullivap te '
Oae QZ Them,
Another Enroll
Those voters who desir
must enroll before Tucsda
ment for the 1914 prima1
vote this year. He must ei
MISS (1LARI?'SE DAMON
LOSES LIFE IN WIAT'I''R
Niece of Mr. C. 11. uasque laroined
Off Station 2 Sullivan's Island.
Charleston, .1uly R.--Mliss Clarisse
Damon, II years of age, a daughter of
Capt. and Mrs. C. W. Damon of this
city, was drowned this morning off
Station 27, Sollivan's Island, and tv..
girls with her on a reef, which a r:.
ing tide had cut oil from the beach,
were rescued unconscious and later
resuscitated.
Thie body of Miss Damon was re
covered shortly before I o'clock this
afternoon, off Station 2), and is now
:t. the .\llantic lileach hotel. Sevy ral
hours were spent by Capt. Coste of tie
life saving station and a iarty of
volunteers, searching for the remains
a;ndt at noon their <e1s1 had been in
vain. An hour later, however, off Sta
tion 20, a 4le fromt the reet. where
the drowning took place, the recovery
Wvas miade.
Mliss ('larisse Damon, with hoer
cousin, .liss i )mon, of Florence, I5
years of age, and .\Miss R2uth Smoak of
Charleston, 1: year's of age, witi othl
e's bathing this m'orning off Station
27, waded out to a reef and rellained
there in knee deep water too long,
not realizing the danger of being cut
off by water in a deep gully between
theim and the beach.
.\Iiss Clarisse Damon slarted in and
Was immediately over her head in wa
ter. W. A. Smoak, who was on the
beach with a baby at the time, called
to the girls to go back and Mr. Vil
kinson of Columbia hurried a boat to
their assistance. Miss Damon of
il";orence and Miss (Simoak were
brought back to land partly uncon
scious, as they too were caught In
the deep water butwere resuscitated
by Dr. Thomas Wright of Augusta, a
visitor on the island. Meanwhile Miss
CIlarisse Damon had been swept out
:1f sight and was not seen again.
M3R. ,JOiN C. IIELI,M131S )E. 11.
W1'l inown Citizen of Shiloh Secti ton
Died Friday Night.
A wave of sorrow was east over the
'ntire Shiloh community Saturday
morning when it bee"'nmle known that
\l'. John C. I lellams had passed away
n the late hours of rbl"rlay night. .\r.
le lla5s who ivas fifty-six years old,
he day before his (leath, was one of
he best known and most successful
armers in the upper part of the con
y. lie was born and silent all of li
ife near' Shilohl.
.\l'. Ileliams had been in declining
le'alth f'or almnost t wvo years, though
is ('ond(1itilon w1as not genierialIly con
id1'1eed serIious2. W(' wenlt to Ifiaurens'
riday on buineilss andt was appJarenit
y* as well as uisual w vhen lhe re'tur ined
tome4) Iate in thle a fternoon.0 iie ret ired
hor'tly3 af[ter eat ing supper)01, saying
hat he felt tiredC~. Ablout t(en4 o'clo('k
ie was- si i'lcen ill anld l ivedl onily a
'ery few inuites.
.\r. I lellams is surlviv~ed by his wife,
v'ho w~as .\iss Anna Owens andi thle
ollowing chlildrIenl: .\(essr' Furma~lln,
larence, Gimis andl Lawrence, Mrs.
r.u1genle Wasson, Mr's. Clyde Mahlaffey,
tir'a. ,John McJowell, Mi's. IEarl Gray
ndl Mr's. Ar'thur Cuirry, Misses Fay',
\1ay, Annie Ruth, Aliene and( 110len
Flellams; also tile following blrothers
Indl aisters-Messrs Pinkiney, Tioml, and
William Hlellamns, Mrs. Con way Cr'ad
lock and Mr's. Pleas Uurgess, all of
h1is county.
ils going has made a vacant pla0ce
nl the hlearts and homeis of his neigh
>ors, that wviil be hard to fill, but thley
Itumlbly bow~ to Ilinii, "'who (docth all
hings wvell," and say "Thy w.ill be
lone", "W., S. C."
Senit Trestamients to Soldiers.
Theo Sunday 8th~ols of the Presby
te'rin, Methlodist andl BaptIst churchl
as of the city made upl a purse'5 last
week with whichl to purchase bibles
for the members of the Laur'ens com
pany at Carpp Moore. 'Enough money
was sulbscribed to provide about 75
beautifully bound limp-leather testa
ontet. They wore seat down and dis
tributed the first part of this week,
mnent Necessary
7 to vote in the primary
y night, the 25th. Enroll
'y does not entitle one to
iroll again. Enroll today!
('HOS 11111, F'OlKS
StISING (i.\i'T. l'QI'A
E nj"anlte 'Three Day ('1au1 ua il Is
A ntieillmtt'd by the People of that
Iiustlingt t'ommuanity.
Cross Bili1, .1uly 1u.--i'is is Chau
t1Llillua week in Cross H1ill and every
one is working to Miake it a success.
The season of attractions opens \Wed
nesday morning with I an address onl
agiiculture by (oIimmisSioner 1I .5.
Watson to bo followed in the alter
11(n11 and evening by Prof. I). W. I)an
10l and other attractive and pleasing
exercises. ''hlursday is edutionl
lay and will begin with addresses on
this subject by Rev. .1. C. oIl of,
Rock Ilil and Jol'ni .1. .\lewain of
Greenville. The relmaider of the day
wil be used by tile ('hautauicca ('liut,
withi equnally interesting and ins trine
tive ninlters. IFriday will inclinie dis
(lissicons on health imobilemiis and mnany
other' beiefieial and amusing I 5atuires.
l~r. llayne of the Slate Ithani of
ilealth will open the lay's attraeliols.
The Irograni including three .sessions
each (lay is now complete and the
ticket cam1pa1ign i., on inl earnest. The
saho of season tickets will close Tules
day night,
Miss Ilrene Dilard of Randolph
Maccon college is visiting Miss Kate
.\ustin and other friends 1in Cross
1Hill. Miss Dillard taught here four
years ago and is a general favorite
with the people.
.liss Cleo Walker and Mrs. Vaughn
Gritton Willer of Laurens spent the
week-end with Mrs. Jas. 11. Coleman.
liss Lola Putnam of Greenville and
Alrs. J. T. Garret of Waterloo spent
Friday with Miss Lillie Culbertson.
Mr. Perrin B. Watts has joined the
machine gun company of the Second
Regiment in Columbia and is now ei
camped at Styx,
Messrs J. W. Koon and .1. W. IHan
nah attended the big day at Ware
Shoals on the Fourth. They state that
polities arc som1ewhat warming u1) in
that town.
Mrs. Cona Smith, who has been in
th' Hap5ist. hospital at Columbia for
two months and who underwent. a
Serious surgical operation, camte home
laist week very muc0h improved. It is
heliev.ed Ahe is now on the road to
rompllete health.
Mrs. Mary olbertsoln is spending
several days at Willi:nston wiih her
Sister, Mrs. Poe.
.\Ir. Georg I'. .\lartin, who for some
months has been working with .1. 11.
& W. lE. Itasor. has gone to W\esmin.
ster where he will engage in similar
work amil be with his father, liev. .I.
.\. \Mart in. lie was 01(emn1palnied to)
W\estminsster' by hsis brother, Ilut her lx.
M\arlin, anld .lessrs .loe ando kIrskinec
'ar'ter who will visit relatives in
D)eonee (4ountr a few (: dVs.
ScholaSSrshipij andl 1-:ntranlce I-:Niiamhm~
fins5 fiIeldi for Wl isthlropi (f;llege Iast
l ridays.
i':xamlinations wvere held in thle (0ot11
ty cour room 10)1 riiday 5(o select th ione11
to) whloml a schsol arship 5 fors four yealrs
alt WinthrojI College shasll he given. It
was5 tile puripose of som11 of' thle (on
testants to find out wh~et her or not
they can enter there. Elgghteen young
ladlies 'toodi tile examlinations andI are
ra follows:
M\ary Sealfe, Clinton; Cora Biryson,
Mountville; Mfyrtle Baldwin, Ora; Mlat
tie Lee Rliiddle, Laurens; Vera Unld
wvin, Gray Court; Nannie Cox, Gray
(ourt; M\yra WVoff'ord, M\adden; Mlarie
Adati', 'Clinton; Gladys WVolft, Gray
Courit; M\ary Lee Arnold, Princeton;
D~orothy. M\arie Teaigue, M\onville ~iSI;
Nannie Washington, Wale Shoals;
'('(na ('opelanud, Rlenno ; Al pha Holt1,
Court; Helen Halley, Clinton; Grace
Wallace, Giray Cousrt, .Jenness Cox,
Gray Court.
At fleaverdam Chunrch.
All the members and others interest
ed in Beaverdam church are request
ed to provide neip on Thursday, July
27, when the church grounds and cemn
etery will be cleaned. off.
I\T AND S\SSV IN I f1l1
Somet of1 'l('The SuffeiringL fromt 1-:fi'cet
of inoulation but I the (tiernl
ilentilh Is ("ooI.
.\cording lo I The .\d veti sel's Si
i'ia ialt ' c'rrii'S, iiden1 t loucaitei at ih
fronit sini'e whire near Styx. S. C., the
alninters of the local inilitary c'on1
pany are ;rotting fat and "sassy" whilt
u1nde1rgo"ing thue rigorous I raining in
Cidet h hern~ig flrliidg :i
diers of 1'ncle iamnuel. Excepting tie
nai ral riein'(l'c'lie of all the buys to
he ati holne with their re'latives, and
friends, they are feeling iiline and are
anxious for Ihie chalice to take a crak''l
at any Mexican bandits that miight risk
iheilnselves within shooting range. All
have beeIn well except a few who
"keeled over" after a conit inuiots
round1( of inneulat1.1ion~ andl( \accination1
for typhoid fever, sinall pox anti a
(Iozen or S o other dista:-es thought to
be fashionable in 'Texas and .\exico.
Someii' very iliortant events of I1th
jiast wcck hiave been1 ('t)ile('ted wit h
(lte re11'1nialingl. amti r s rig of varli
I(in:; die :ariti nits ioit lrovit d o'I rliII by
'nlthe 'am. The Iohnaeo problem
atu up 1lin hu% ntior seri sly tht'n
tit' .\fc\ican ;>robhtun arni at lilnes
ive'(s e 1n:-bb able1 worry it> ft'w users'
of itm ' d1 whose funds hatvi' r'tin low
For this rita n t 'adiii -iiry of Ii
royatl hih a ,b. IIko~ti s C"Iardy, a("
coi1;ninbu by hi; aid-de(-("amp1;, ('Il.
Frank Iitid, of 11h - biggtt & .\I yer
Tobacco C'orn;tangy. made a diistint and
lasting iulpression on tilt' boys. Tles
two camne into nluip accolmilpanied by
a retinue of seIvails hearing gifts of
Velvet an i Star Navy which were
lavishly dist'ibute d aiong the men
lof both regilents. In all the company
streets they were hailed as heroes
and in the 'Traynhani Guards iplar
ters they were awarded royal titles.
Other smoking and chewing ipara
lphernalla was also left by several
Laturens men who came linto camp, but
whose nalies your war correspond
ent (lid not find out. These things
were highly appreciated and espce
lally aow since the merry jingle of
coin is no longer heard in the iock et s
of the men.
Now the ladies of Lan liels as usial
have done the royal thing. The box
of cakes sent by them was r'ece i vedi
in good order and despatched in th
sane iman1ner. Yotl can always depend
ten tlie ladies to do the right thin::
1"y iii slliei's and their lthouchtful
lttss; for the boys in this camp i
greallay appr)1ec'iate'd. T!hen, too, thi,
bibles .ist r'eceivedl from i t' ihr,,
.'I1 nlay 8'ht.ools are areally aptp-e ia
cii.
'I'he tile in1ny lst Solute of its li!t(1'
popular mh' ?. 'ihe's anti soml of 11''
blravest whon thll medical examuine rs
matde their inroad, into0 the comlpan1y
ranks. The tolltwilg w1er rtltistd
from ser1vicet after the( medtical ex am
inations: f
i'orp'I. il' i li L la ytin , l i - i t.
('lark Gilin, Joiseplh i'. hllr, ;lr
ver' C. Jloinis, .iacksoin it.\lAla 1i
('nit M. Morris, Willie Moirris.
Il id 3.~ .Mis'eey, Oscar I' 1ose iy,
Jalineus K. Nelson1, Coy' I. :Laynet, I.limes
mions,~ C:haplter TI. Whiitten, ILaurlens
.M. WtAorkmIlanI, IDoighlas I arn'lett, lBen
I'R A. 10arwoodi, D~extei' C. ltus sell,
Cooper, Lewis X. Prince, Itobert Nel
Secures, Larger Quinriers.
Mr., II. Terry announced yesterday
that he hadh leased the stor'e-roomi in
the Sinimons building now ocenliled
1)3 the J. C. Ilurnls & Compny3 and
thlat he wiottld move into0 it ahoult thle
1st of Septembecr. It Is already knowni
that. ('Inrdy & Willson wi'll Itake poses
s101n of the prlesent Ter'ry stoie wh'len
they3 add n ladies' depiartmient to their
presenrt buisiness. .J.(C. uttrs & C'o.
Will occupy 11he store now occu pled 1by
the Jones-T1aylIor Hardware C'o. It
has beeni formerly announced thant Mr.
Ihenehioff w~ould go Into the present
Blurns stand In September, but this
lplan has been changed. Mr. Terry
said yesterday that lhe was greatly
pleasedh in securing this new stand as
it giv'es him more room than he form
efAy had and hs In a splnidlocation.
GEJS BIG START
Members from all Over the
Count)
3,000 POUNDS
SEED ORDERED
F-arm lietrnonstrator 10ere hans Set Is
I'eu s to haie .',t0041 Acres 1i'%nited in
1.n nrens ('00i t . 'T'hose lIesiriit to
,loin the ( lunh Should Join .' t.
The 'lover Club is a go- 1rin
I)4n:onsitralorI .\oore wa-,s inl Thel( .\dl
v'ert i:er otb0'0 eslerday to "rpI'or to
lie publlit " oni the statti. of Ilit pro
posed cilub su ggested by The Adve rlis..
er and pu;t inl oper1ation by himg. I Ie
reported that he was receiving a reitl.
deal of enc(ouhrageltiil and that nwinl
bers are joining froni all ofs:' eI ie
count''. 'lThe indicent1ion are I :ta the
clabi will be conposed ot' a bi pro
ortion o' the farmniers of Lauis t
county. Aliready, he .ait, about o
pounds ol s'td have bEcn spokt'en I'
and Iltere is lio t4 Ii4g hit n11y40\ fnre
thouisandIs will bo . Il4 a 1tltor hel'lr
the er'l (f thewek ('hairm1an StoI'ne,
of the C linton C'haIinber of ('on uneri ( .
gave it as his opinion44 thaI ,.1041 pounids
to id bh .144ken1 lor inl t'Ie I.lintonI
vicinity alone.,
F'or thc Ilesentl .\r. .\loore is con
lining himsit' to tile tu niation t of the
clubt. lite asks Ihat evet' f.'irmer who
wants t1 .ioma to advice hin how Imuchl1
Seed le hwill use, l. to 20 pound.S of
See(I being tstiaiiated for each a ere. lIle
reo)ltumndtis tht. not o'er four acres
he plantlI the first. year, so that it will
be given haeter attention while learn
ing how to grow it. Later on he will
contlribute several articles to the pa
per on the best methods to be 'ol
lowed in making a success of cloVer.
Of course, also, he will continue his
personal work.
.Mlr. Moore asks that those desiring
to join, std in their namnes with the
allnolnt of seed desired at once. Thosq
wIIhio have alrea(iy joined and the
amount of seed ortdered are as foliows
H. W. Ilellam s.. ......
.\. \\'. Ilella s .. .. .. ..10
G. !I Holt .. ........0
T1'. .. Ilalock .. .. .. ..1
1'. 1. .\b i tdden .. .. .. .. .. . . . ....i 1
.\. L. Copeland .. .. ....0
G'. . \\'h h .. ..1..4....
. . L . a1 t ... ....... ..
\\. l. 'i rmbtt....... ......1
XX. I'. (hirrett.... .........1
E. P'. .\linter .. .. .. ....
\\. if. Illad.'ens .. ..1.1.
X\ t. \\'i lis .. .. .. .. ..
\. \\. \\'llis .. .. ... .. ....... .0
. l. 1. Iarby .. .. .. .. ..
It. It. O w.in1 s .. .. .. ..(.
.1. .\. Tlhomlasonl .. .. .. ..,
I., L. Tem le tonl .. .. .. . . 6
It. I. Owin=: ,.... ... . .. .. ... . l
W . ll Hobo .. .. . .. ..
It. . Il lnt .. .. .t w ..I
\\. ie \l. ' '1ender(1 ..i ..o . n W 1l
its clt. ' bln erison . ..' h ..h i i111 t
at. t\'. Ih . . 'tl . w .. g.. pan
the emaiinggood to hes flowes:
the ~one-'laylo harw .r .o. 1ill
ic-oen nd ccuy t~s tan by 1he
rst of.September
Mi'&tlii of ..o P . . 0
o~ ~arcn LdgeNo 13 .. .t . o15
C~t It Isexle('t'd ha . .. 15'k
'stork o .. .. So60
the wo rak .'.'i ..o .. co.me.ce.and
Tha he olwsae ha wasJ be Ing o
Couitdbio d ipsnC. ona
by the Thpe ofig cotompaBny
