FINANCIAL EDITION
NIGHT
EXTRA
NIGHT
VOL. n. NO. 108
PHTLADBJjPniA, TUESDAY, JLAY 2, 1916.
Coriuani, 1919, if iaa Peiuo Limh Courint,
PRICE ONE CENT
FRENCH TAKE
TRENCHES ON
VERDUN LINE
gTake 550 Yards of German
Works on Vaux-Douau- '
mont Front
(.WIN WILE IN THREE DAYS
,.
S Berlin Report Disputes Claims
P -... 1...1 -n...!- ttr..
lit luauc uyruns win
Office
PARIS, May 2
ft- In the most successful oftcnclve bl-- 1
delivered by General I'ctaln since i .
Crown Prince launched tho Vet dun of
fensive, French troop3 late yesterday cap-
'hired 650 yards of German trenches
coutheast of Fort Douaumont.
The War Office also nnuouncsd today
that In the successful attacks against
the German positions on the slopes of
Dead Sfan's Hill during Saturday and
Sunday, the French captured 1000 yards
s of German trenche3 to n depth of from
J00 to 600 yards. The French have
gained more than a mile of German
trenches In three days' fighting
No news from the Verdun front since
Hie beginning of the Crown Prlnce'3 of
fensive has aroused such enthusiasm In
Paris as the publication of today's com
munique. The offlcln Btatement was taken
to mean not only that tho German drive
has been definitely checked, despite re
peated German nssaults on Sunday, but
that the offensive has now passed to
"the French armies, which nror pushing
back tho German lines.
The French advance last night wns
made between Fort Douaumont and the
.lllntra nf VntiT nil tfm 1 nrt I, nrn fi Incrn
ts rnlllat(o wnnrtq I fi wlifnh tmtnh
'severe fighting has occurred. The po3ltloii3
captured by the French were first-line
trenches. One hundred German pilsoncrs
were taken.
The text of the official communique fol
lows:
South of the Somme a surprise at
tack attempted against one of our
small posto In the region of Dam
plerre was repulsed! by our musketry.
In Champagne we shelled revlctual
ing convoys north of Navarlu farm.
In, the Argonne a strong German re
connolterlng party, was dispersed
ndrth of Harazee.
West of the Meuse artillery ac
tivity was continued during the night
from, the region of Avocourt no far
as Le Sfort Homme (DeaT Alan's
HI1IJL "Latest reports make it known
that. Jn the attacks made by us on
April 29 and; 30, on the 'Blopes ribrth
of, lie Slort Hommes there, fell Into
Sur hands ene,my -trenches- on a front
f about 1000 yards ami a depth rang-
Inn- enm inn i.CM ...... .
- i -BERLIN', May. 2.v-IFerce French at
" Clacks south of Fort Douaurhont and In the
UvVCillletto forest were lepulsed Jjy the
"HSennans In a several, hours' harvl-to-'
Stand struggle, the War Office announced
r-cthls afternoon. The Germans maintained
F -fltaelr positions.
iff The text of the official statement fol
1 lows:
North of Loos, during last night, a
German patrol entered by surprise a
British trench and slaughtered many
occupants. Those who escaped death
were captured.
On the Verdun front the artillery
duels increased In Intensity, On the
west bank of the Meuse only hand
grenade combats occurred between
advanced posts northeast of Avo
court. On the east bank, south of Douau
mont and in Calllette forest, a French
yattack was repulsed by our troops in
a several hour3 hand-to-hand strug
gle. The German positions were com
pletely maintained.
A French aeroplane was brought
down In an air fight aboe the fortress
of Chaume, west of Verdun, Sunday,
and another French aeroplane above
the forest orrhlervllle, southwest of
Verdun. First Lieutenant Boelke shot
aown his 16th enemy aeroplane above
Pepper Heights, north of Verdun, yes
ivjJ F1?1 Lleutenant von Althaus
hot down his fifth enemy plane north
Of the fortress of St. Mlhiel yesterday.
n,?.n ,the nu,S3lan and Balkan fronts
there Is nothing to report.
PITTSBURGH TROLLEY '
' N STRIKES SETTLED
Carmen Agree to Compromise
Agreement Will Resume
Work Tonight
bu?irfa3tmoH- Va- May's Pltts-
c?' nundred carmen today voted at-
unanimously to accept a compro
&.Mre!inent "commended by their
"RilYe Committee.
and ,.l??n rf,turne(J to work Immediately
leh.duf.''11 be "Pirated on regular
"aedults during tha rush hour tonight.
THE WEATHER
Haln. Knm 4lm. -,i i- .
E- tn h. r .;; " w suppo3ea
S Uraa itui 1e P"1"1 today, but every
t inWTJtln?'. Psently begins to be
'amrrllv - ,X.ny aBaln' The wlnd twitches
a liy.atJ,he wnlff3 ' """oka and has
no dnM d?m?. 'dBe io " snd there is
Is a i .? ma)e-a day of It But May
tt. mnard m?nth to dUcouraee it is.
tnLth. 'st Platent optimist of all the
2,r hAnd at all events, even If there
Bremi. . 8nowera soma time today, the
faffT ' mada that tomorrpw Iso be
thh'?'r "hower' though, might be a good
lutVle the sprlng-feer sultriness.
-' - u mmoapnere.
FORECAST
la&L. W&M":!lfrr
I !! ' 3woT ttf cooler; Wedmsday
f ta,and'nuch cooler; moderate nor
,, wrly vnndt.
I.OST AND FOUND
CKftTlFICAfB t
SSkA, JrAT.B, '?", "t WM far oU (S)
SSu Co'l?1 '.9c,'f ,tIw W0""1 J?rov-
mm. - wi -"! j-ii
M ffMt?,5Fo, Yx. terhisr boa T
&.v rf,.,in .ly, lost mastSv uklfa .Bivnrrf If
1,, jSisywfcj' sxjg
K w t rowtf ,44, ,a j.I8 W
MORNING TOILET
Taken exclusively for lh llvrvivii l.runrii
Here is Mrs. Chnrlcs Belknap, of Philadelphia, daughter of Admiral
C. F. Goodrich, retired, performing her ablutions in a tin basin nt
the "preparedness camp" for women, near Washington. There are
five tin basiii3 and one mirror to each tcntful of the society women
who are taking military training.
WOMEN'S CAMP -BARS
JEWELBY
AND CANDY, TOO
No Home Cooking, Just
Plain "Eats" During
Training for War
SOME BALK AT FOOD
By LISETTA NEUKOM
CHHVY CHASK, Md , May 2. Camp
ing without jewels, candy or home cooking.
In the Chevy Chase military camp for
women, began In earnest this morning,
when the rciellle was sounded b one-of
tho mere men of tho camp Young Pald
Kemp, a diummer In the. L'nlted Stateh
Marine Corps, has been assigned to do tho
"blowing for the women at tho first
military camp of Us kind In the -world's
history.
The revelllo sounded at 6:30 o'clcrck.
Then the fun began. One pretty young
Washington belle prophesied there would
be "enemies" In camp, because of the lack
of mirrors and washing facilities.
Imagine, lf you can, five society girls
nil trying to arrange their hair before
one elght-hy-ten mirror, a "higgledy
piggledy" rnlrror'tliat makes-their hair go
up and clown In ocean waves, and placts
their noses where their eyes should be
and their mouths nroujid in the. vlpjilty,j
tt til alts nn t- Tki-A ta 'rtrt a umli IHlppnH
"i iiiii mt . aiictc la vii i rj ouwii iihiii'I
to each tent, and thern nro fle occupants
In each cf the tents.
Ten minutes after the reveille, thf dally
flag raising was held, but the women were
too busy scampering to Jhi shower baths,
grabbing palls and tin basins and trying
to get a turn at the wee mirrors to pay
much attention to the flag raising, Th
first call for military calisthenics wns
given at 0:40. assembly nt 6.45, recall
at 7:15, the first call for breakfast at
7:20. assembly for bieakfast at 7:25 and
breakfast nt 7:30.
"KICK" AT FABK.
And such a breakfast! It brought forth
groans and snorts from the young women,
iyjjo had not gotten over the dinner and
the supper menu of yesterday. They are
not much pleased with the camp fare.
They told a press representative so today
on prpmtse th.at no names would be
mentioned. -
The breakfast began with stewed
prunes, and ended with boiled potatoes
with the "jackets" on. In between there
were bacon and egg3, coffee and watr.
The dinner yesterday Included roast-
beef, canned stewed tomatoes, canneu
stewed corn, plain boled potatoes, gravy,
canned pineapple, bread and butter and
water, while bupuc'r brought the return
of the same roast beef, cold, some of
the boiled potatoes from noon, fried, sliced
tomatoes, bread and butter.
nd the awful part about this all, Is,"
said the pouting debutante, with longing
eyes and a hungry iook, "inai we caunoi
get any food from our people, because
it Is against the camp rules. No candles
are allowed In camp either, and we are
not allowed to have any dainties sent
from home. AVe have to He on these
camp rations."
SOME THJNCJS THAT ABE BABBED.
But candles are not the only things that
ore barred fiom the camp.
There are no Jewels, no smoking Is al
lowed and no newspaper people are re
ceived on the grounds that ,1s. If the au
thorities know it, except during certain
hours, when the eagle eyes of the censor,
Mrs. Hugh U Scott, wife of the chief of
staff of the United States army, and her
able assistants, are upon them,
Photographers of all kinds and d
Ecrlptlons are also barred from the camp.
They were, allowed in jor wie opening
erolses yesterday upon "promise" they
would not mjse around and get other pic
tures. Some of the photographers declare
they will climb a tree on the outside to get
Unusual pictures If the censors do not re
lent. ' There are classes all day and a visit-
Continued on l'are Four, Column Two
GIRL ATTEMPTS SUICIDE
IN TORRENT AT NIAGARA
Bystanders Drag ev From River De
spite Her Resistance '
NIAGARA FALLS. N- V-, May S. .
Plunging- in the torrent of the Niagara
River. 20 feet above the Cataract, two
bystanders prevented Florence O'Neill, a
2L-year-old Tonawanda girl, from committing-
suicide late yesterday afternoon.
The young woman -walked Into the
river opposite, Luna Island on the Gov-,
ermnent reservation and resisted the ef
forts of her rescuers, who finally suc
ceeded la bringing her to safety. The
girl was arrested
'MONTE CRISPEN
Returns to become a worker la his
own milis
In Kensington
Read of his ejcpjolts on page 9 al
today J
mm?ng if&gei:
AT CHEVY CHASE
"BRUMBAUGH GOT
$1000, FRAME-UP
OR NOT" OLIVER
Senator Says Photograph
of Brother's Gift Was
"Touched Up"
HAS ORIGINAL AS PROOF
Flat denial by Senator George T
OIIer that the Brumbaugh $1000 check
episode was a "frame-up" by him and his
brother. David B Oliver, donor of the
check, was made today
-And If It was, he declared. It does not
nltci the fact that Governor Brumbaugh
accepted the check and failed to account
for it In the sworn statement required
by law.
Senator Oliver's statement was In reply
to n puhllshN account today which as
serted that photographic reproductions of
the check, termed the "backbone of the
Oliver blackmail plot," were spurious Tho
"plot" as well as tho spurlousness of the
reproduction are denied by the Senator,
who blamed the "touching up" process of
the photographer for the nbsonco of per
forations and Indorsements on the repro
duction of the check
He denounced the statement ns "silly"
In a telegram sent tq the "Kvenino
J.niwcn. It reads jib follows. ' t
WASHINGTON D. CMny 2.
The stnlontant In the Philadelphia
North Ameilcun this morning goes
to the qtticmo In the way of silliness.
If Sir, David B. Oliver thought so-well
of Dr Brumbaugh as to send him a
gift of 11000 as" a token of his per
sonal esteem, why should he have
such a suspicion of his friend ns to
Ipduce him to photograph the check
before sending Jt out' The fact is,
(he photographic reproductions, both
of the face and Indorsement are all
from, the same check, and that Is the
check which m bYother sent to Dr.
Brumbaugh on September 19, 1914,
apd which produced the letter from
Dr Brumbaugh acknowledging his
"generous help In this light."
The perforations show on the face,
as well na on the back of the check,
but are not Bhown on the newspaper
reproductions for the simple reason
that the photographer "touched up"
his negative In order that the check
might have a better appearance when
printed, The Indorsements on the
back iihow that it was deposited in
the Glrard Trust Company on Septem
ber 28, ten days after Its date, and
on the same day was deposited by
the Glrard Trust Company In the
Fourth Street National Bank, by
which bank it was forwarded to the
Farmers' Deposit National Bank of
Pittsburgh, and by it put through the
Pittsburgh Clearing House All of
Continued on Vast Three, Column One
DESERTED WIFE BURNS
HER 2 BOYS TO DEATH;
CUTS OWN THROAT
Pennsgrove Woman, Money All
Gone, Also Seta Fire to
Babe's Crib and It
May Die
GIRL OF NINE IS LEFT
Three weeks ago today Stephen Skinco
vitch deserted hl3 ,iylfe
This overwhelming fac; recurred again
and again In the tired bruin of the de
serted woman as she lay in bed early
today, staring Into the darkness. A faint
light, that of dawn, mtered through a
window of her humble "room, which faces
the Delaware River from the riverfront
at Diver's lane, Pennsgrove. From a bed
near her awn came tha regular breathing
of two of her children, Stephen, 6 years
old. and Frank, 3. The 6-month-old baby,
Ullzabeth, st(rred uneasily in her crib.
NO MO.VKV FROM HUSBAND.
The breathing of the children fascinated
her, troubled her. It was as regular as
the ticking of the cheap clock on the shelf
It was as monotonous- us the days that
had passed since her Stephen had left
Stephen had made good wages In the
powder mill. Stephen had sent her no
money. Of what use was the babies'
breathing If they had. no fpod?
Mrs. Sklpcovitch slipped 'out of bed
nol$lessy Already there was a stirring
on the misty gray river, a dull thumping
of men at work with boats. She stood be
tween the bed and the crib a moment
looking down -upon the curly heads of her
children. They were smiling, she could
see their mouths in the half-light Stephen
had sent her no money
' The woman hesitated Then ehe glided
swiftly Into the kituhen She came back
with a kerosene can The crib and bed
In a moment were wet with the, oiL Then
a match. There, was a scratching- sound
and a flare of light Uen a blggec flare as
Cunllautd ea fas Three, Column faut
BOY'S DEATH HOUSES COKONEK
Telia Police to Stop Dangerous Steal
ing of Rides
Coroner Knight today asked Ueutcnant
Barry, of the 4th street and Snyder ave
nue police station, to detail Borne plain
clothes men to the neighborhood of Svvan
son street and Oregon avenue, nnd there
break up the gang of boys who steal rides
on Baltimore nnd Ohio Hallrond trains.
"If you don't." he snld, "this court will
bo husy holding Inquests."
The request followed nn Inquest Into
the death of 12-year-old Joseph deary,
of 2(101 South Frnnklln street, who wni
killed stealing a ride
MORE THAN 9000
JOIN PITTSBURGH
STRIKERS' RANKS
Industrial Plants in Mo-
nongahela and Turtle
Creek Valleys Closed
ASK FOR STATE TROOPS
Thousands of Workers
Idle by Strikes or Lockouts
New York 70,000
Pittsburgh district ... -15,000
Cincinnati 3,500
New England 5,500
PITTSBBUGH, May 2 More than 9000
additional men were thrown out of work
in the Jtonongahela nnd Turtle Creek
vnlles this morning by strikes and tho
closing of plants. Following yesterday's
riot at the plant of the lldgar Thomson
Steel Company In Braddock, many of the
manufacturers feared to contlnuo opera
tions today.
Street fighting that assumed the pro
portions of a small i lot occurred todnj,
when 100 employes of thp Stirling Steel
Company plant nt North Braddock walked
out They demanded nn eight-hour day
Crowds of strikers were gathering lit
Hraddock this afternoon, ami extra deT
utles linvo been Rworn In to cope with
the expected outbreak.
Attorneys representing tho American
Steel and Wire Company, whoso plant It,
affected In the present general strike,
called pn Sheriff Blchards this afternoon
with a request that State troops be sent to
Braddock to preserve order.
The American Steel nnd Wire Com
pagy's plant, at Brnddock. employing 1000
men, was closed down this morning indefi
nitely. The same company's plant at
nankin, employing 2600 men, also closed.
These are the first of the United States
Steel Corporation subsidiary plants to be
affected by the present strike, which has
reached almost every Jndustrliil concern Jn,
the Pittsburgh district. Officials of 'these7
plants assert that their emploes have no
grievances ana are not asking any conces
sions, but that they are afraid to return
to work-following jesterday'B riotous dem
onstrations by the big mob of Westing
house strikers who marched through the
valley Intimidating workmen
The McCllntfc-Marshall Construction
Company's plant at nankin, employing
2500 men, was closed also today for the
week. The Braddock Machine and Manu
facturing Company's plant. In Braddock.
closed Indefinitely. This plant employs
GOO men. The Columbia Steel Shafting
Company, employing 400 men, closed It3
plant at Bankln.N At the Ildgar Thom
son Steel Company's, plant in Braddock
it was estimated that 1000 men went out
on strike this morning The plant Is op
erating at reduced force. A strike is on
at the Standard Chain Company's works
In Hankln. About 500 men nre out, the
strikers say.
Coal and Iron policemen of the Car
negie Steel Companies were brought to
Continued on ! Fifteen, Column Two
Bullet for Munitions Clerk
MILTON, Pa.. May 2. Adam Thomas,
shipping clerk at a munitions plant here.
who was mysteriously shot, is dying from
a bullet which penetrated his lung and
lodged in his kidney. It is thought the
shot was Intended for the general man
ager of the plant, who was standing near
Thomas.
"BISHOP MAKER'S"
DAUGHTER ELOPES
Miss Buckley, Whose Father Is
Noted Methodist, Married to
Bricklayer and Wrestler
MORRISTOWN. N. J May 2. MoTrls
town, society was shocked today, vv hen it
learned that Miss Sarah Buckley, only
daughter of Dr. James M, Buckley, one of
the best-known Methodist divines in the
United States, eloped April 1 and was
married secretly to Ernest Plgnone. an
Italian bricklayer, with some local fame
as an amateur wrestler.
The romance began at a settlement
house where Miss Buckley met the robust
Italian
They slipped away to New York for
the ceremony, Plgnone went back to his
job of bricklaying on their return, and
Mlas Buckley returned to her society'
functions. On days when It rained and
there was no bricklaying to do, the Italian
drove the churchman's daughter about
town in her automobile.
Doctor Buckley for many years was
editor of the New York Christian Advo
cate, and won the name of "Bishop
maker" No one could learn today what
he thought of the secret marriage Cen
tral just said his telephone was "out of
order."
WAITE TRIAL SET FOR MAY 22;
250 TALESMEN TO BE CALLED
Poisoner of Father-in-law Silent as
Time Is Fixed
NEW YORK, May S The trial of Dr
Arthur Warren Walte on the charge of
poisoning hi rich father-in-law, John K
Peck, of Grand Rapids. Mich., today was
set for May 32 by Justice Schtarn In the
criminal branch of the Supreme Court.
Assistant District Attorney Brouthers
asked to have the trial set for May is.
but this was opposed by Walter Deuel,
counsel for Walte. on the ground that he
would not have a complete report from
the alienists by that Urn
Walt was In court but 4t llltst
UuoUf&oul M JfoceedlBs.
MANY WOMEN
FALL IN DUBLIN
INSURRECTION
Fourteen Female Bodies
Picked Up in Shell
Shattered Buildings
500 KILLED, 1500 HURT
Whole Blocks Wiped Out by
Flames and Havoc Is
Appalling
DROGHEDA. Ireland, May 2. A
party of Sinn Fein rebels attacked the
police at Garrlstown, 15 miles north
west of Dublin, early today, wounding
four. Eight of the rebels were cap
tured, the rest escaping.
Slight disturbances continue in the
suburbs of Dublin nnd outlying dis
tricts. By SYDNEY B, CAVE
DUBLIN, Mnv .'. Many women were
killed In tho fighting between rebels and
British troops In the streets of Dublin
The bodies of II women have been dis
covered In the ruins of shcll-ihattered
buildings At least 500 tebels were killed
nnd 1500 wounded In the seven days of
(lilting. It wns estimated today by soldiers
who completed n canvass of thl city.
Normal conditions are being restored
here, although the central part of the city
Is n mass of fire-blackened ruins and the
street arc scarred by nrtlllcry pro.
Jcctlles.
Thoroughfares which were the chief
zones of the fighting were opened to the
public yesterday for the first time and
there was a rush for souvenirs, some per
sons even tearing the clothing from the
corpus ol the dead as they were borne
awny for burial.
The havoc tn the business sections of
the cnpltnl Is appalling First reports
were w holly Inadequate In describing the
desolation nnd destruction Mnny bodies
still lie beneath tho ruins
Instead of n few bultdlngR having been
destroved by fire whole blocks were wiped
out. Many streets were Impassable for
the mounds of wreckage which rill them.
LAST SHOT FlBi:D MONDAY.
Tho lnut shot In the envlions of Dublin
was fired Monday morning by a lone
snlpei at Balls Bridge on the outiklrts
of the city, who held his position in spite
of the furious fusillades directed. Rgalnst
his barricade by loyal troops. Finally
when his ammunition was gone he tied
a handkerchief to the bajonet of his
rifle nnd raised It In token of surrender.
On his cap were the wordB, "Dublin re
demd." u
A small body of rebels, determined to
die hard, fii'ert a volley last night from a
position near the West Land station,
which was captured by the rebels early
last nvcek The crackle of Government
machine guns followed then ominous
silence The whole party had been wiped
out.
vArmed guards nre still patrolling the
city nnd suspected houses are being
searched for arms, ammunition and sedi
tious literature
However, the troops are not interfering
with the populace, except to keep pedes
trians on the move in the streets. Through
out the night soldiers worked clearing
away the wreckage of battle and remov
ing dead bodies. Some of the corpses
had Iain In the streets since the day the
flghflug began, Monday, April 24. It was
a sickening sight
A British army otilcer, who was at his
home at Black Hock, Ireland, near Kings
town, on leave, went to Dublin on Mon
day and was one of the soldiers cap
turd by the rebels. He was imprisoned in
a building of the Four Courts, one of the
last areas to be surrendered to the Gov
ernment forces He said he was given
only bread and water for five dajs,
though the rebels were well supplied with
food ns well as ammunition
"The rank and file of the rebels ex
pected about what they got," he said
'Their leaders, the schoolmasters und
other intellectuals, were frantically en
thusiastic the first few daya. and then
Continued on I'uie Khr, Column Onr
CATTELL FEARS LOSS
OF CITY PRESTIGE IF
VOTERS SPURN LOANS
Failure of Passage at Pollsl
Would Injure City's Repu
- tation, He Tells
Credit Men
'DON'T RAISE WHITE FLAG
"If Philadelphia repudiates Its policy
of development and turns down the J1H,.
000,000 loan bills on May 16, then a dan
ger signal will be (lashed to the 100,000.000
persons throughout this country. They
wljl at once lose confidence In the Indus
tries and manufactures of this city and
any belief they may hold In the solidity
of business here will wane."
With thjs earnest declaration, City Sta
tistician K. J. Cattell pleaded for the pas."
sage of the f67.0OO.0OO transit and port
loan bill and the 147,000.000 general loan
bill before the Philadelphia Association
of Credit Men at their semimonthly
luncheon In the Adelphla Hotel today.
"Philadelphia will not be progressing.
it will be retrogressing, if the loan bills
are defeated " continued Mr. Cattell
"Don't have It said that we have dropped
out of the race; that the birthplace of
liberty is against progress. Don't have It
said that ou pull down Old Glory and
raise the white 1g
"If you don't like the men handling the
loan come out with an injunction against
them after yqu have passed the loan bills.
But pass the bills first to prove that you
want Improvements and progress"
The benefits which will come from fha
construction of the comprehensive transit
program were outlined In passing by Mr.
Cattell. The benefits In the form of In
creased realty values, he affirmed, would
be the greatest good to the whole city by
the high-speed development
"Philadelphia has been talking abou"
improvements on a large scale for years,"
he continued, "arid just because we have
Contlam J ru l'ae Time, t'uluauj tits
QUICK NEWS
THREE KILLED IN THOMPSON PLANT STRIKE AT BRADDOCK
i'
riTTSBXIKGHj May 2 Three men were killed and 40 Injuied
ln riotli'g at the Edgar Thompson plant in Braddcck this afternoon.
U.S. STOPS ARMS-
LAREDO, Tcx Kay 2. Ths customs authorise!) weie today or
deled, by Waflliinyton to hold. .up, all Bhlinnonts of wnr s'ujipUca ton
signed, to Mexico until furthef oideis. , , ',
NEW ARMY BILL TO BE PLACED BEFORE CONGRESS
WASHINGTON, May 2. An enthcly new army 'bill, In lieu of
either the Hay or Chamberlain bill, will be submitted to the Houaa
and Senate by the Confeience Committee fiom both liotimra now en
gaged In attempting to adjust the differences In the two meabutes.
MODEL COMPENSATION BILL FAVORED
WASHINGTON, May 2. -The House Judiciary Committee today
voted to lecommend passage of the McGllllcuddy bill whicli is de- ,
uigned to bring- nil biauchea of the Government under a 'completion- '
3lve model compensation law.
FLAMES DESTROY FAMOUS LILLE EDIFICE
BERLIN, May 2. The Town Hall at Lille, France, one of. the most famoun
structuVes of its kind In Europe, was destroyed by fire, according tov dispatches
received here today. German soldiers formed a chain nnd helped the French
librarian rescue many valuable books. The fire brigade was unable to save th
Town Hall, but prevented the blaze from spreading- to numerous adjoining struc-
, tures. The Town Hall wan of the Renaissance period.
BRITISH BLOCKADE GREEK ISLAND
BERLIN, May 2. An Athens dispatch to the Overseas NewavAgcncy states
that British warships have blockaded the Greek Island .of Thasos because of
the arrest and deportation of a British'
uritlsn cruiser nnd returned to the Island. - .
BRITAIN DENIES U. S. REQUEST ON BLOCKADE
WASHINGTON; May 2. British Embassy olllclals oday announced that the
British Government has declined the request of the State Department that
goods of German origin contracted for before March 15, 191E, be permitted to
pass the blockade lines. The British Foreign OIllco ruled that only goods con
tracted for before March 1, 1910. would be permitted to come ta America:
NINTrf DISTRICT REVENUES DECREASED
LANCASTER. Pa.. May 2. -The 9th Internal Revenue District receipts for
April show a big drop, as compared with Alurch, both In the total and on cigars.
The April total receipts were U'71,323.30, !ess by $16,317.05 than In March. The
cigar receipts were 1161,361.56. less by $14,137.29 than in March.
SPAIN STIRRED BY REVOLUTIONARY ACTIVITY
LISBON, May 2. Revolutionary activity In Spain is causing the authorities
grave anxiety, according to advices received here today. After several years of
comparatve Internal quiet. Industrial conditions, due to the war, are? stirring tho
untl-monart'hists to revolt against King Alfonso. The feeing Is strongest In the
Catalonian Provinces, but Republican agents have been busy throughout the en
tire country, particularly In the basque provinces, stirring up revolt.
PHONE CABLE TO LINK WILMINGTON AND PENNSGROVE
A telephone cable between Wilmington, Del., nnd Pennsgrove. N. J., is
being planned by the Bell Telephone Company. The cable will serve as a con
necting link In the Bell systems .of South Jersey and tWs Sta'te. Jhe date set
for the laying of the new cable has not been decided upon, but it will take placs
some time about June 1. . ,
, MiCN'S BODY PICKED UP IN DELAWARE RIVER
The body of an unidentlfled white man, with a pawn ticket Jn his .pocket
made out In the name of Marlst, 1321 South Front street, was picked up in the
JJeiaware. Itiver off Pier 62, of the Baltimore and Ohio, early today. The body
was that of a man about 40 years old, 6 feet 7 Inches tat! and weighing jibout HO
pounds. The pawn ticket was Issued by Charles Livingston, a broker, at Sth and
Federal streetB,
GERMAN PAPER CALLS GERARD MILLIONAIRES' TOOL
LONDON, May :. An Amsterdam dispatch to the Central News Agency
states that the Neuste Nachrlchten, of Kiel, Germany, 'will shortb: publish, art
article accusing Ambassador Gerard of being the tool of American millionaires
interested In gaining vast profits from the war,
McNICHOL'S SLAYER GETS 10 TO 12 YEARS IN PRISON
Edward F, Keller, convicted of manslaughter In the killing of Panlel J.
McNlcho), was sentenced by Judge Bregy today to serve from 10 to 13 years in
the Eastern Penitentiary, The maximum penalty for the crime of which, hs
was convicted Is 12 years' Imprisonment. In passing sentence Judge Bregy de
clared that the facts were fresh In the minds of the people and that no further
review or comment was necessary. Keller will not ask for a new trial.
GERMAN BANKS TAKE LITTLE OF WAR LOAN
BERLIN, via London. May 2. The number, of Individual subscriptions to
the fourth German war !tun wns 5,300,000, as compared to only 1,002,000 to (ho
flist war loan, according to a report read by Rudolph Havensteln, president of tha
Kelchsbank. to the central committee a( the hank. Of these, 5,000,000 subscrip
tions were for amounts less than 200Q marks ($509). The children In 500 high
schools throughout Qermany.gnve 47.000.000 marks (Jll.750,000) and ip'?80 ele
mentary boys' schools 17,000,000 marks (14,250,0001. Pupils of the lower grades
of 311 Berlin schools gave 1,000,000 marks (1250,000).
MEATLESS DAY NOW URGED IN GREAT BRITAIN
LONDON, May 2. Tpe public U Urged tq refrain from the uss of pteat every
Thursday and to abstain from alcohol every Monday In the Interest pf .economy.
This appeal Is made by a committee of 28 of London's most prominent 'citizen
Including Government offirlaK scientists, and writers. "
FOOD "EXTORTIONISTS" DENOUNCED IN BERLIN
BEB.LIN, May 2 Eugene .Zimmerman, General Director of the Lokat-.
Anzelger. has published In his paper a strong attack on "estortlonJsts!' In provi
sions, lie declares they are cvnoucUng "the dirtiest business tver done," &fe4
criticises sharply the incomplete measures of the State's organisation. KUamer
nan's article follows a number or similar attacks In the last few days ti wWcfc
"the unjustified and shjoklo Increased prices, or the. necessaries at Uf" wat
pointed out. as well as "the material damage thy do to Qcrmaoa ami tu tte
fasas vt starvation and of ecoawaUe weakness they awk awad,
y
SHIPMENT TO MEXICO
subject who was later rescued by a
Z?
efr
