. Vvf
R_a_n_d_oipJi Q_ne
Will Put You in Quick Touch
With The T~D Want Ad Man
Dr. Brady's Tall^s
Don't Miss Them?Something
Interesting Ecery Day
66th YEAR
VOLl'MK UO
M'.MHKIl 123
RICHMOND, VA., TUESDAY, MAY 2, 1916.?FOURTEEN PAGES.
xvr.ATHKU?UNSETTLED
PRICE, TWO CENTS. '
DUBLIN REPORTED
QUITE SAFE AFTER
One Thousand Prisoners in ?
City, of Whom 489 Are j
Sent to England.
i
MEN LAY DOWN THEIR ARMS <
WITOUT ANY CONDITIONS
Revolutionists in Country Dis-.
tricts Arc Giving In to
Mobile Columns.
x WHOLE OF UI/8TRR PEACKFUL
Hm|u? Kntorfalnrtl in Qucenstowli
'Hint Arms "Will Be Landed
In York.
LONDON. May 1.?All the rehelt- In J
' ? jMiti havo surrendered, and those j
lr> 'he country districts are. doing like- J
wlt?e, according to an official statement
l*nuod thin evening.
Th? statement says:
"All the rebels iti Dublin have sur
rendered. ml the city iH reported quite
snfp The rebels in the country dis
tnr.t? nre surrendering to the mobile
olumnii.
"There were 1.000 prisoners tn Dub
lin yesterday, ,of whom 4S9 were sent
tn Kngland last night.
"It is reported from Qiie?MiKtown that '
hopes were entertained that arms '
I would be handed In to-day In the city j
r.f Cork.
"During the night of April 30-May 1. ,
the rebels in EnnlHCorthy mrnio an offer I
to surrender their leaders and their j
firms on condition that the rank and
file be allowed to return to their
N homes. They were informed .that the
only terms that could bo entertained i
were unconditional surrender. These j
terms were accepted by them ilt 6 j
o'clock this morning It wan reported ;
later that the rebels wore surrendering j
to-day oti these terms.
"A column composed of soldiers and j
Koyal Irish constabulary captured j
f even prisoners in tho neighborhood of
Ferns (County Wexford) to-day.
"tVicklow, Ark low, Dunlavin, Bag
rulfllown end New Hoss and tho j
Counties of Cork. Clare. Dimerick and j
Kerry are ponerally quiet The whole '
of I'lster is quiet "
ItMTI IlV TO NORMAI.
(OMJITION* IS lillAUl'Al/
Dl BUN, May 1 (via ix>ndynl.?A
leturn to normal conditions is being
:.?~oomplished gradually lr, Dublin, j
and i* now is possible to give the first I
complete account "f 'he happenings 1
of the last week Hitherto news of the |
Dublin upri'-in?i has reached the out- |
tide world In fragmentary form, owing ;
to the interruption (if telegraphic com
munication, th" censorship and the I
fr'-quent conflict of statement.
When tho irreconcilable opponents
of British rule in Ireland proclniined
the republic, their move was looked on
generally as a mere display of fanatl- .
>. ctsm It was soon found, however, that \
It was no mere demonstration, hut an j
outbreak which had behind it a fair '
organizatIon and sufficient force, to !
strangle the life of the capital ami '
compel tho authorities to send for mill- |
*nry assistance from England. At no |
time, liowover. did the military or civil j
authorities consider the rebellion a !
menace to the government, nor did they |
have any fears as to their ability to j
cope with it quickly as soon as Its ex- '
lent became apparent. What occurred ?
v hs as follows:
Monday?The tirst move was a d.i.sh |
by members of (he Sinn Vein Into ih?.>
fluieral post-office. Many of these j
u ere in the uniform of the Irish Volun- j
teers. 8 rival body formed at the timu '
men of Ulster organized to oppose the
r.om? rulo law. The party worked
quietly, compelling all officials to quit
their posts, while they cut telegraphic j
communications with the rest of
Ireland and with England.
Tlie rebels posted armed sentinels at j
the doors and windows, and prevented I
* any soldiers or policemen from enter- !
I tig tho building.
Soon afterward, firing opened in the j
neighboring streets, for tho rebels im- j
mediately shot down any man in khaki.
Several officers and men of the regular j
prmy thus fell victims In the first few !
minutes of the revolt.
IV meantime, rebels
SEIZE OTHER I'OIXTS IN C I TV
The authorities, unprepared at first!
to deal with the uprising, ordered the;
police and soldiors to retire at onco to
their quarters, none of them being 1
armed. In the meantime, the rebels,!
according to their prearranged plan,!
.seized other points in the city. They!
established themselves at the City Hall,
^Liberty Hall and St. Stephen's Green,
and also occupied many houses in Sack
vlile Street and the side streets lead
' j)|t? to it. Their scmtrlcs patrolled
Mocks in the center of the city, and
sharpshooters took up positions on the
i(,(f$ and ill the windows of iioiixes.
,\n attempt wt. made to seize Dublin
Cas-tk. but the guard of royal Irish,
constabulary and soldiers prevented!
the rebels from getting beyond the
gate, at which they killed the police
T>nen on duly.
Hie authorities wore powerless with
forces at their disposal to dislodge
or attempt to combat the rebels, who,
however, ma do a great mistake, which
eventually cost them dear. They neg
lected to seize the telephone exchange.
Thus. the authorities were ablo to send
a call for a military force at Camp Cur
r.igh. some thirty miles aw.iy.
Tresday?The rebels apparently had
increased in numbem and spread in
smiill parties about the city. Sniping
.tvac fairly prevalont in all quarters;
'of Dublin throughout tho day, nndj
numbers of casualties occurrei among
soldiers, rehols and civilians. the last
suffering more than the two fighting
^Continued-(TiT Second"Page.)
Fee Officers Get $36,343.20 for
Their Services?Balance
Goes to Schools.
FULL SETTLEMENT IS MADE
Largest Single Payment Ever
Received by State?More Than
Double Cost of New System.
State Auditor Moore reccivod from
Treasurer John T. Fltzpatrlck, of Nel
son County, yesterday a check for
J236.074.13 in full payment of back
taxes owed to the Commonwealth by
Thomas Fortune Ryan. the mlllionulro
Now Yorker, who maintains his legal
residence in this Stato. It was the
largcut single check in the payment of
the State taxes of an individual re
ceived in the hiKtory of the Auditor's
office.
The promptness with which the set
tlement was effected was attributed in
large part by State officials yesterday
to tho limited assessment act of the
last General Assembly, which definite
ly declared the State's policy not to
assess for omitted State taxes beyond
1 903, and not to allow localities to go
beyond tho year 1912 In assessing
property which had escaped taxation.
Examiner Drununond, of the Twenty
ninth Circuit, began work on the Ryan
assessments in 1015. after the adjourn
ment of the special session. With the
assistance of Attorney John 1, Lee. of
Lynchburg, he delved far back into
the records of the Ryan holdings, as
sessing for the llrst time millions of
dollars' worth of intangibles not pre
viously brought under taxation.
WAS IMPORTANT ISSUE
HEFOItE LEGISLATURE
The collection of the Ryan taxes wac
one of the issues that figured in the
legislation of the General Assembly of
'916. It wap charged repeatedly that
the limited assessment not was framed
to protect Mr. Hyan and other wealthy
citizeri6 against being assessed for
omitted intangibles for indetermina'e
terme. On tho other hand, it was J
pointed out that a law of this kin-1
wan essential to the successful appll- I
cation of the tax on intangibles, since
tf the threat of an Indeterminate term i
assessment was held over the heads '
of owners of intangibles, those would 1
have every Incentive to pursue the ]
policy of concealment Those who held '
this view were in the majority, and tho I
law was passed.
Although the act will not he In clYocr j
until Juno IS, Mr. Ryan hns snticl- i
pated it. and has made a full .settle
ment with the treasurer of Nelson '
County. He became a citizen of Vlr- i
glnla in 19^4. and was in that year J
for the firj-t time assessable upon his [
intangible personal property and in- j
come.
The assessments against Mr Ryan '
for omitted State taxes covering th* !
years 1904-1914. inclusive. upon
intangible property and income,
amounted to $245,025. and the assess- '
mcnt of State taxes against him for
the year 1915, on the same subject*
amounted to ?5*.250. making a total of
$S01.275.
PEE OFFICERS IJRAW
?a?,3la.yn for tiikiii work 1
The total cost of making the assess- '
ments was $25,423.07, and the commis
sion paid for collecting the State's taxes
was $10.919.63?a total of $.16,313 20
which tho Commonwealth paid out to
collect $301,275 from Mr. Ryan In
omitted taxes. As a piece of State
financiering, the transaction is perhaps!
without parallel m the Common- '
wealth's history. The net revenue to
the State from the whole proceeding
is $-'64,931.SO. With tho exception of
that portion which by law is devoted
to the. payment of pensions, the entlr*
amount will be applied to the support
of the public free schools.
In addition to paying this sum to
the State, Mr. Ryan, under the same'
settlement, paid to Nelson County
omitted taxes amounting to $100.12.1,
covering the local assessments on.
omitted Intangible personal property!
and intangibles for 1912. 1913 and 1914. i
Examiner Drummond's commissions for
collecting the State taxes amounted to
J20.R19.12. Mr. Lee's compensation will
come from this amount, and is a matter
entirely between himself and Mr. >
l'rtiminond.
RYAN'S CO.XniKT IS llnLI>
ir? AS AX EXAMPLE
At the State's accounting offices yes-j
terday Mr. Ryan's straightfonvard con-j
duct throughout the whole tax contro-j
versy was held up as an example fori
other citizens of Virginia to follow. -
Front the beginning he made it clear j
that he desired to bc treated as all I
other citizens of Virginia are treated 1
and authorized his Virginia agents to'
give the Investigating tax ofTicern fre?'
access to all records. With the assess-;
mcnt made and the question of tho term'
of back assessments sottled by the1
Legislature, prompt payment followed.'
The collection^ of the Ryan taxes. It 1a '
believed, will encourage individuals all'
over tho State to make full and fair
returns of their omitted Intangibles In'
the knowledge that henceforward the
State will piny no favorites. Examiners'
of records In all the districts, under,
the amended Jaw making them answer-'
fo tl,e Tax Board, will be'
-ompelled to enforce the law thoroughly
and Impartially, and large revenues ar'o'
expected to flow Into tho State Troas-I
iiry from intangibles brought thus un-j
Jer taxation for the first time.
Until tho creation of tho first short
lived lnx Commission by tho Legisla
ture of 1910, little nctitve effort was'
^ade tc( bring to light intangible per-j
sonal property which the owners had!
emitted to declare. Most of the
revenue from this source was derived
f*h0 taxing of fiduciary property
uncovered In the settlement of estates.
With the first Tax Commission In
0 began tho movement which cul
minated In 191G with the drastic re
(Coniinued on Sccond "ra?cO
AMERICAN TROOPS TO BE KEPT
IN MEXICAN BORDER REGION
Companies 1>, K, F, G. H, of the Sixth Infantry, after a 8lv-day hike across the desert land of Mexico, arriving in camp -some where in Mexico
?to
WOA MNSLIE UDGES
GENERAL PLAN FOR M
Richmond .Vow Held L'p b.v Engl- j
neer.s ns Horrible Example of
T'nscientlflc Method*.
PRAISE FOR HEALTH HOARD I
Annual Message Reviewing Work of
All Departments of City Govern-j
ment Is Kent to Council?City Is !
Well Within Its Hond Limit.
In his annua) report to th? Cltvi
Council, submitted last night. Mayor1
Alnslle stresses again the need for a;
competently prepared plan for the con-:
trol of the growth and development of
Richmond.
The report is exhaustive, taking each
department by turn and in detail, with'
commendation for all and recommends-'
tion for some. Bspecial mention is
made of the Health Department, which,1
as it now separately exists and is man-I
aged, will on June IS |os? its identity!
and become merged with those impart-j
ments of the city government under the!
exclusive control of the Administrative!
Roard. Concerning the public school?,
the M.tyor repeats the recommendation:
made by him li: J312--that is. that pu!>-i
lie c<iuca rion should l?e financed by spe-|
cjal levy.
For tho dire.-tior. ?nd control of tlso!
Roliep Department there Is no reeom-l
mentation, as thtn department is within i
two months to jro under the Mayor's!
supervision and direct authority.
"AtiKD m;t'OMMKXUATIO\S" AS
T?? I'SK OF CITY Ti t; ItRI'KATED j
r>! regard to the l-'lre DepHrtnient, the j
Mayor repeats that "the aged recom
mendations fur a modern central ollico'
equipment for the l'lro Alarm Depart-i
ment and for a Are pump on the city
tugboat pay their annual visit. I
nicnln commend them to your considera-l
tion, with the hope that we shall not!
have to make the effort of substituting I
sorrow for safety." Tho Mayor also
says that the recommendation of tho1
Roard of Fire Commissioners for tlio!
providing of better protection to the j
Northside annexed territory seem rea-!
sonahlo and the requests modest.
However, the chief burden of the
Mayor's report is on city planning, aiul
on this he speaks as follows:
"During last year there was exhibited
In Richmond for five days the celebrated i
city-planning exhibit of the American!
City |.jureau of New York. This re
markable exhibit gave ocular proof to!
? he thousands of our citizens who saw'
It that convenient, useful, economical'
and beautiful cities arc the results of
plans of competent planners, and that!
in no instance do they merely happen.
Another fact we should not ignore Is:
that literally hundreds of American'
cities are to-day spending untold mil-'
lions of dollars to rectify the ignorant'
mistakes of previous city governments. I
We are this very day making and con-1
sidcrlng large public improvements in j
Richmond, each as an absolutely I
isolated problem, without the slightest,
study of their relation to ench other I
or to the whole.
KICHMOM) SOW r.ISTKI)
AS A IIOK HII1I.K KXAMI'Llj !
"Wo are butting our heads off and J
talking ourselves hoarse on each of1
them, and 1 am convinced that no dis- j
interested and competent engineer enn !
isolate any one of them and say with'
confidence that It will not hereafter1
be considered a mistake. I recently;
read a published article from the pen'
of an eminent American engineer, it'
was unpleasant for me to find I?ich-j
mond listed among the horrible ex-i
nmples of unscientific street arrange-j
ment. There has never been a time1
when tho principles of city planning'
were bo much neoded here. If we dupll
catt in the mv teerritory the blunders
that our predecessors made in tho old,
God may forgive us, but the coming
generations will not, for theso blundors
will, sooner or later, have to bo!
remedied at their expense. 1 again i
commend to your favorable considera-1
lion the advisability of tho adoption of
a competently prepared plan for tho I
control of the growth and development'
of Richmond." I
In reviewing business conditions, the
Mayor writes that In 1D1S the city ex
perienced a gratifying reaction from
the depression of tho two previous
years, and that in both manufactur
ing and Jobbing increases were re
corded. In the review of the city's
financial situation It is shown that t'hk
outstanding bonded debt of the city.
"(Coqtiiiued 6nTFixm'Tag?j
[ - ' ? ?f' ; ?. ?'? '? ' ; - . ^ ' '? iv\,
CAMP FOR YOUNG WOMEN
IS OPENED BY PRESIDENT
,
Ho Voices Warning That Honor and |
Integrity of United States Can- ;
not Be Tampered With.
NATIONAL SPIRIT REAWAKENED!
If War Conies, Whole World Would ;
He Thrilled to Hear Voire of New ?
World Asserting Standards of Jus-;
lice and Liberty.
WASHINGTON. May 1.?America re-,
awakened in national spirit through'
lesson* from the European war. was1
t!?e theme of an ail drops by President j
Wilson to-rlay at the opening of tho |
National Service School Military E.n- j
campinent for VounR Women. In con-,
eluding. the President voiced a warn-!
iiifcj that tlje honor ami integrity of the j
United States cannot he tampered with. .
The President prayed that the country |
should no' t?r drawn into wa.r, hut
declared that if it should ho, "in tho |
great voice of national enthusiasm
which would he raised. all the world |
would stand once more thrilled to |
hoar the voice of the New World j
asserting tho standards of justice and |
liberty."
Tho President expressed confidence
that In time of trouble the ureal mass
of foreign-born citizens of the United
States would be loyal.
"I never had the slightest doubt of
what would happen when America
called upon those of her citizens horn i
in other countries to come to tho sup-j
port of the flag." he said. "Why, thcyi
will come with cheers?they will cornel
with ;i momentum which will make us
realise that America has once morel
boon crieil awake out of every sort of
distemper and dream and distraction,
and that any man who dares tamper
with the spirit of America will lie cast
out of tho confidence of a great nation
upon the instant."
SI'KAIfS IIKFOItP. SKVF.IIAI.
IfL'NDHRI) YOtIXt; WO.MEX
The President spoke before several
hundred young women dressed in khaki
and drawn up in military order. They I
will be taught first aid to the wounded, J
bandage-making. telegraphy and other!
war-time arts. The encampment isj
being liehl under tho auspices of th?|
women's section of the Navy League. ?
Secretaries linker and Daniels and a j
large group of government officials and j
army and navy officers) were included !
in the audience. The President's speech j
followed tho formal raising of an:
American tlag over the encampment. I
lie spoke in part:
"You have come together to be pre
pared for any unusual duty which!
America may call upon you to perfottn, |
but what has moved you to do thls?t
Tour duty to your country. Hut what!
is the foundation of that duty? What!
do you conceive America to be? When |
you come to the last searching j
analysis, we do not owe any duty !
exccpt to those things that we believe,
in. and the glory of performing our!
duty towards America is that we he-!
lieve in America?and we believe in'
America hccause?1 venture to say it j
with entire respect for other peoples j
and other governments?this govern- |
mcnt was established with a special j
purpose such as no other government ,
over avowed. This government was
established in order that justice and
liberty might belong to every man
whom our institutions could touch, anil
not only that justice and liberty should
belong to America, but that, so far as
America was concerned and her Influ
ence Involved, they should be extended
to mankind everywhere. So the in
spiration of serving America ts a very
profound inspiration.
(JETrixc ixnmncT iikxf.fi r
FROM ISLTIOI'KAX WAIl
"Have you not thought what might
be the outcome of this great struggle,
so far as the nations already engaged
are concerned? Can you not imagine
the great awakening that has come to
it country like ' France, for example?
How much more Intensely every
Frenchman and every German feel the
industrial compulsion than ho ever felt
it before! How much more he feels
himself, not an Individual, but a frac
tion In a groat whole! How much
more his blood springs to the challengo
of patriotic suggestion! He is not
fighting for his own life. He Is sac
rificing his own life, or willing to sacri
fice It, in order that a greater life than
(Continued on Fifth Page.)
ADMINISTRATION LOSES
flEHT ON PHILIPPINES
Clarke Amendment, Authorizing In
dependence Within Four
Years, Defeated.
VOTE IX HOUSE IS 215* TO 10.1
As Substitute for Entire Measure
Jones Bill, Providing for (Jroater
Measure of Self-Government, Is,
Passed, 2.11 to 17.
\\ ASHIXGTON, May 1.?The admin
istration's fight lor tho Senate Philip
pines bill willi Its Clarke amendment,
authorizing independence for tho
islands within four years, was lost
to-night in tlie House. Voting 213 to
lti-j to strike out the Clarke amend
ment, the House, by a vote of 2S1 to 17.
passed us a substitute for the entire
measure Llie Jones bill, providing for ;?
greater measure of self-government in
the Philippines, and carrying- a pr.-am
ble declaring the Intention of the Uni
ted States to erant Independence ulti
mately, but without fixing a date.
Over the ht-nted protest of adminis
tration leaders, the House, by a vote, of
J03 to 1 i>4, instructed it?: conferees not
to itarrc to any declaration setting a
detlnite tiin. for granting independence.
Sow the bill goes to conference be-j
tween the two houses, with opponents
of the Clarke amendment satisfied that
it is dead, at least for this session of
Con gross.
The House remained in session until
late to-night to lake tlie tinal vote.
Thirty Democrats Joined the solid Re
publican minority in defeating tho
Clarke uim-mimeiit. which had been
given umiuiilified indorsement by Presi
dent Wilson.
FIRST AIAHKCII VICTOUV
ovi:it i'hi:siim:.\t s I'aowit vu
It was the first marked victory c-f
the year over any part of the Presi-1
dent's legislative program, and the He- 1
publicans were noticeably Jubilant. |
The Democrats a<-ceptod their defeat in
silence.
Tho Potnoorats who voted against
the Clarke amendment were: Allen
<?hlo: Henkes. Michigan: Bruckner, Ca
rew. Coni-y, Pale, Pooling. Driscoll.
Parley, Fitzgerald, Plyun, Griflin, Mul
bert. Mailer, Patten. JUordan' and
Smith. .New Vorlc; Coady, Maryland;
Kagan. Hammill and Hart. New .lersey'l
Kstopinal. Louisiana; (Gallagher, Mc
Andrews and .UcDermott, Illinois; Gal
liv.an, Olney, Pbelah and Tague, Mas
sachusetts, and O'Shnunessy, Rhode
Island.
Tho first vote, taken after eight
hours' debntr in committee of :he
whole, showed 1M to J51 votes against
the Senate provision. Chairman Jones,
ot tho Insular Affairs Committee, then
attempted lo procure the adoption of
substitutes extending the time limit for
fieeing tlie Filipinos, but the\ were
<iulckly voted down. Then, without
further debate on other sections of the
Senate bill. Mr. Jones offered his mea
sure as a substitute for the remainder
of the Senate bill, and it immediately
was adopted.
There is nothing in the body of the
Jones bill promising independence to
tho Filipinos, nor anything in any part
of it setting a definite timo for ?ieclaca
tiou of their independence. The pre
amble merely states that it always litis
been the intention of the United States
government to grant the island.- their
freedom, and in order that they may
be belter prepared for it a large degree
of control over the domestic affairs is
placed in their hands.
It KS11)EXT COM .11 IKS IO N i;h
<>H1?<\TI,Y I>ISAPI?OI\TI<:i>
Manuel L. Quezon, the resident com
missioner of tho Philippines iu Con
grtss, said ho was so greatly disap
pointed over the failure of tho Sen
ate bill In the House that he would not
return to Congress.
"This ends my work in Congress," he
said. "I am not coming back. What
is tho nee? The action of the House
Lo-nlght makes tlie fight for inde
pendence harder. I notice that not a
single Republican voted for the Clarke
amendments They had it all figured
duI In advance."
Mr. Quezon had advocated the Sen
ate bill in an earnest speech during the
afternoon. He told tho House that
Japan would not seize the islands if
Lhcy were freed, and, moreover, that
Japan would keep ofT any European
nation that might lurn hungry eyes
that way,
? .
LESS APPREHENSIVE OVER1
GERMAN-AMERICAN ISSUE!
I
Deliberations at, Headquarters ("'on
eluded and Gerard Starts
for Berlin.
UKPJjY TO V. S. ALMOST HEADY j
Considered Undesirable That Prelim
inary Indication of Nature of Note
Should lie Published Abroad.
Little Comment in Newspapers.
HKP.J.IN, via London, May I.?The
future German-American relations
probably can bo looked forwarl to with
less apprehension.
The Associated Frass is permitted to
make this statement, although dis
patches hearing on the nature of the
German reply to the American note
respecting submarine, warfare, have
been stopped by the censorship.
The deliberations at great headquar
ters have been concluded and Ambus
sudor Gerard will leave this ??veiling
for Berlin, arriving here ?>n Tuesday
afternoon.
The German reply is expected with
little delay, but. U is considered unde
sirable tliat. preliminary indication* of
the nature of the.note should lie pub
lished abroad.
Discussions over the ant-war to the
American note continued Sunday at
great headquarters without a eonclu
sion being reached, according to ad
vices to the T.okal Anzeiger.
XKWS1MPKIIM taOVKHAI.I.Y
nicKHAiN !<'ito.ti t:innti:\T
The newspapers, for the most part,
still refrain from comment. Theodore
Wolff, in the Tigrblnlt; George Hern -
hard, in the Vossische Zoitung. Count
von Reventlow, in the Tagea Zeitung.
and the Taglische Rundschau, however,
give some consideration to the .sub
ject.
llerr von Bcrnhard considers the sit
uation still grave and voices a warning
against too Rrcat optimism. lie de
clares that the final decision rests
solely upon President Wilson.
"There would t>o no grealer mistake,"
he says, "than the expectation that the
American Congress might reach a dlf
feront de? tsion than '.lie President. The
time for exercising influence on the
American people and their veprese.nta
I fives is past. It is not doubted now
I that Congress stands behind President
[ Wilson The German leaders who have
' the task of framing the German answer
j must remember this.
I "We could understand any decision,
no matter what it is. under the .self
understandable condition that it pre
serves Germany's dignity."
NO II \ liK-WA \ MKASlltKfi.
SAYS tlRim IIUItMIAItn j
"Rut. there must be no half-way j
measures," says iierr Rernhard. "and
the decision readied must create a
final and enduring status." He refers
to the fact that the offensive has been
the guiding spirit of Prussia's and Ger
many's military operations since tho
time of Frederick the Great, and con
cludes:
"And if our statesmen. In reaching a
decision in the light of their informa
tion on all the conditions involved, be
lieve that they must do so in the face
of the uncertainty as to what the pur
poses of the other party are, they will
have to take into consideration tho
question whether in such cases it ia
not wiser to take tho lend themselves,
rather than be forced to play to tho
lead of tho other leader."
llerr Wolff's articlc refers attain to
the hopes of Germany's enemies of j<
rupture between Ihe United States and
Germany anil to the dissenting voice ol
Gustavo fjerve, the French antiniilltary
agitator, whom he quotes as saying that
France's only hope is Germany's thick
headedness.
REIMER MAKES THREAT
Says In flvent of War lit* I?nrty Would
lliock Manufacture of
.Mulli t (OHM.
N'KW YORK, May 1.?Arthur E.
ltolmcr, presidential candidate of the
Socialist-Labor party. In a speech at a
moetlng held to ratify his nomination
hore to-night, declared that In the
event of this country becoming Involved
In war ho and his followers would
"block tlits manufacture and transpor
tation of munitions to the troops In the
tleld." ami would tell tho capitalistic
cl&Bses to 4o the lighting themselves, ,
Further Instructions Sent
to Major-Generals Scott
and Fuuston.
after brief conference
HELD AT WHITE HOUSE
Arredondo, Mexican Ambassa
dor-Designate, Again Argues
for Early Withdrawal.
r,\ 1,1,8 ON SECRETARY I.AXSLNG
Informed That No Action Will He
Tuken Until El Paso Con
fcrenre Ends.
WASHINGTON* May 1.?President
Wilson hns not altered his purpose to
Keep American troops in the border
region of Mexico until brigandage has
come to nn end.
After a brief conference at the
White House to-day. Secretary Baker
prepared further instructions for Major
Generals Scott and Kunnton. sought by
the officers as a result of their confer,
enco with General Obrcgon. The mes
sage went forward to-night. rts con
tents were not revealed, but both Sec
retary Lansing nnd Secretary Hakor
--aid there had been no change In the
administration's policy.
' Kllseo Arredondo. Mexican ambas
sador-designate. called on Secretary
Lansing during the day to renew hlB
argument In favor of the early with
dtaw^l lie followed clojmly the line
taken by General Obregon In his ex
^hange of views with Generals Scott
the Was ,nfor,?ed that
state Department would not take
J up any diplomatic discussion of this
subject, as urged by General Carranza
Ei P;,"fT ,th"' mUUai>* conference at
?LI 1 n,?o had concluded.
toeUuJ r*. Arroduudo indicated the
feeling of his government that the
American expedition has already ac
complished |,? real purposo-the elimi.
; of V,Ma a,,rJ his adherents?and
ritorv ?cl\upatlon Mexican tcr.
n! i . ^'nerlrnn troops was servln*
[Only to undermine the control of thl
|de facto government over the general
[situation in Mexico. nera*
j n.wijri's no i.o\f;EU
. KEtiAltDISD AS SIENAC0
ar?^, ",ir? SUti8nc<i ,hat Villa bandit,
art no longer to be looked upon as 1
r^d "Tr^ OC tbd cotintrv*
'bo wither American troops should
vithd.awn to restore tranquillity
the Pe?P?e. It is believed that
tn V , ? hflr befin kl!le<i or driven
to refuge where he will n<-? i
molest cither Americans or MexSJ
and their t8f b?a^ W?U d,8P??ed
?There i/h63 mater,al'5- reduced,
??.Picloi lBmonh~ o7 oL?iJ
ingtlihMexTcor,Cran tr??PS ar? ren3a1^
The ambassador acted under
-pjrvsjs stss
ui.*?.. cz': .rsr"?
conference at fi ?>-> from tha
asrsssss
win, .. General Scott, although
w'th the same object
Secretary l#n?^ and ta,k8
HKI'OHTS signed jointly
.... ,n sr OTT A*I> PUN8TOV
?l*ned jolnuv Ly c? Co?fere?^ are
So' UrY ?'Z ' SC"" ??0
have cont'tlneH , Known, they
from tho two ofn''? rocom,nendatlona
???>? ha,, been tio rvyL Statl"?
such further i..c ' asking for
lliouiiht ,"S "W
t??0 discussions ' Pursue
?h.ts ,"u""ion <?? ?t
'V'v.er ,r?r a*
withdrawal of th* \m? . fcard to t,1?
clearly thai cL American troops eo
Will bo told ' L,ot)oral Carranza
l? made a rCply to his ?ot?
In some quarters in touch with \r*ri
?",;!^rru ? *"??
personi.il>. and 'had'""-* lh? "'"""'"n
-l.cl.Hior, ,t * "" ????"?? 'or
to-morrow*. C*b">?
J.? JZ?ZWL ,e:
troop** had been made bv ?? v
tate Department advices to-d^v
^Trrrvr i,<"!n ?"???<?
; nr;,r?-,o"',H^:urz~z
steamer Newport, which will sail from
Uiegoan Cal0n 4' Probab,y to'
Cal. Reporta from Padr*?
Negras said a new i?aue of Mfx|?
zrz rvia *? int? ^cuumnTt
porta from T?lo*rupblc ?
porta from ?toat?raaid that iix4 '2
