THE WEATHER FORECAST.
Showers, cooler toujav; fair to-morrowf
IT SHINES FOP ALL
moderateacin wMs,
Highest temperature
i lowest. 45.
Detailed writhci, mall i
reports on jingo 1.1.
ft.
VOL. LXXXIII. NO. 245.
NEW YORK, TUESDAY, MAY 2, 1916. t'opvriW.lflU.bi the Sun Printing and Publishing Association.
TWO CENTS.
PHILIPPINES
BILL KILLED
BY 213 TO 165
Administration flouted as
Independence Measure
Ts Defeated.
,10 DEMOCRATS IN
REVOLT OX ISSUE
Complete Defeat of Plan for
Freedom Goes Through
the Rouse.
isH'Nu.o.v, May 1. Hi a vole, of
tl.t to 1." til' House to-night rounded
tli Knell of Philippine Independence, for
he present at least, by reJectuS the
I'l.itke amendment juovlillne that the
islands bp turned looc within four ears.
The Administration forces were hope
lessly routed. The triumphant Repub
lican minority, nliled by thirty revoltlnir!
Democrats, discarded the enliro Senate
measure and substltuled for It tho old
Jnries hill, which contains" an expression
of purpose on the part of the United
Spates to grant tho Filipinos Independ
mo a soon n- a stable government has
tten c.t,ibllh--d.
With their foi cos scattered the Demo
eratic leaders weie linally placed on
he defensive ns a beaten minority. To
ev nt utter defeat ami save what little
hope was left them In the way of com
1 nml" bv the conference committee on
t! I lilllpplne bill they sought to force
e .idjournmviit. Kw-n In this they
f.'i. 'd. being defeated by n vote of 203
to
Thirty l)onnirrnt .loin.
T'. ity Democrats Joined with the
.1 Itepubllcun minority to rout th
Ail, ii. metratlon forces. Thc were: Al
if. i. uhlo; lleakos. Michigan. Unickncr.
.V. w York; Carciv, New York; Coady,
nt.irjl.tinl ; Conry, New Yirk . Hale,
N'ew York; Doollng, New York, Drls
full, New York; Lagan, New Jersey;
Il-tipon.tl. Louisiana ; Farley, New
York . Fitzgerald, New York . ITynn.
New York; Gallagher. Illinois. Galllvnn,
Massachusetts-; Griffin, New York;
llamllt. New Jersey , Hart, New Jersey;
Jlullscrt, New York; Mc.Vudtow. mi
iio; McDennott, Illinois; .Mailer, New
Tork; Ulney, Massachusetts; O'Shati
nessy, Rhode Island ; I'atten, New York ,
Phelan, Massachusetts; ltlordan, New
Tork: Smith, New York; T.igue. Mass.
(chusetts. ,
The House, by a vote of :n.1 to 154,
doptetl the Fitzgerald motion to In- ,
f'.ruct tho conferees I" adopt no pro
posal fixing a definite time within which
tho Islands may be set free. and then
.djournod.
To make the overthrow of the ma-,
Jorlty complete and prevent the pn-sl-tlllty
of reviving the liulependenre Issue .
In a definite form Ripresentatlve I'itz- i
rerald moved to Instruct the eonfeiees
to adopt no other proposal fixing a I
(If finite time within which the lslnrd. 1
nriy be set free. '
Ttefore the llouv. Itself took founal
iietion on the Clarke amendment and tlm 1
,1 nits bill, which was substituted for the
Senate bill, It rejected the former by a
- k vote of to 151 In commltti't of
I.'.'' rtlK'lf
Tlrs wiiiiiilcd the knell of the Admlnls
t'.i' on mca.sme. Indorsed by the 1'iesl
lb '. whose letter urKliiB Its paas.tcc
w lb ml modlli' atlon was read to tit
In no. lull,- t, incus n few days aso.
I'.lfjrts of the 1'einocratle leatler.i to
p. . oine the oppoviiiR majority of forty
io o'e- by roni'elon In the way of
c" (".'imp Hi" time within wnlch the i
V'n .l Slates mlulil finally withdraw
f'ri. in,. Il,iiids were tin.ialllni;. Th'
tell 'ant Tammany int'irreoilim!in and '
i, r assotd.tles who refifeil lo abide bv
'.turn-' decree stood firmly with the
''I Itepiiblli'.tn minority. The rela-i
e -i eiicib nf the tippoilna factions
I' ni.Hiied Hie same. ,
f Inirtiit of f lifers.
v ' the i eject Inn nf tli Clarke
fn . urn-tit which was signalized by a
.i ii- .if . beers from the Iteptibllean j
t tie Ib'pre dilative Jones, nominally In'
t' i'" of tlie struggling Democrats, of-1-
"i an amendment llxlng the Jline riitr
Ir w u i ;i itidepeiideii' e may be granted
. .-.ami-, at "not It-s than two nor
n, i, than e.irs" So inndllletl, the
' i, ' .iiiienilim-nt ivn." again rejected ny
s - ng vole of I Ml lo 14(1.
Vc.'llll till' llefellletl I lelllnCI ats tiffeicd 1
a i "i . e..Moii bv prfiposlng lo ll tin' time
I 'n t l. tui'i'ii hnir and six teals, but this
' f' t.. appreciable- eflect on llio trl
i.' iphiiit miij'iritv. The itinenilmeiit wns
lei" i, I i,;. a vile of Hi:: to Jfi2.
I 'i "iliur their tvttv blot'Ked tint Deino
"i.i'i' bailers Iben itbaniitined the entire
.it' me. i tlie, iiieliiiium the Clarke
in txlii-.ent, .iii-l i oiirf ntrnlt'il tlielr t fforts
t" bung iibout the nd"plloii of the Jones
bib. mie of Hie measures originally inn
- 'I" e.l by ihe IloU'-e. wblrli nieiily e
,li .Ps Die put pose of the I'liiled Slates
to giant I hi- riliplnos inilepeinlenee when
b, tin .liiilgiiunt of this iiiiiniry they urn
nit. t fur it.
Mo., lull uas substituted and the
f-'""iie bill t f i ii)ii h at 1 1 ilMt arded. The
mr 1'le, wlib-b t-onl. lino the formal as-
i'u e of liiilepeinleiice. f nlliiw :
It is. ns it always lias been, the
p M'" " of the peopl" of the l'lllted
s-'it'es to vviilidi -tw the'r sovereignty
'"'i the I'liilliiiilne Islands and in rec-
' till - Ibelr I nileTienilnii,.,, tiu knmi .,u '
''le giivernnidit can W- (slabllsbctl
t. I tell' "
'" inodllleil (be bill was formally
t-tsen up bj Itie Hoiisii anil Hie i nil rails
tai ii.
'I veithrtm' of the Democrat!!' ma-
I " tv mid the defeat of the Admlnlslra
'I "H iin'llfure f.lllie lit the close of a spec
'!' 'il.tr i,iill.imi'iil,try strugRle The foot
I at the day was the flglileenth annl
t"s.ti of the buttle of Manila lay wns
r ei, til. lied by the nitnorilv speakers,
wlio 'xhnrtt-d theli- cnlleiigiies not to
il.ind .ii In the, fiulultles of oriental
W'lld iNilitlfs the Islands wlnrli imiiic
nio tho po.M.fcHlon of the Fulled Slates
I ti ce, y through tlie victory of Admiral
Ii. 'vej i-'ghlteii yea en ago.
Til" Itepiiblleaii miiioiiiv. obviously
cm ll.ient nf their i-onliol of tltr- pallia
Iltr t, l.i i y sitllltlloll, uffeie.l no objection
w .en it wits propo-cd by Ilr nf s.nl.illve
K i-h'u tlvtt geiientl ilelmle be limited to
Ik'ii hours, with a view to n decision of
t e impending fplesilmi befoii. Itiljotim
in. i i
inil seven hours were consumed lloth
HA'S weie anxious to put the trouble.
C'onf ftitrif on Fifth I'agt.
ALL REBELS IN DUBLIN
YIELD; 1,000 PRISONERS
Insurgents Throughout Ireland Giving Up Arms Un
conditional Surrender Only Terms Offered by
the Government 489 Sent to England.
Awia Vablt Dnpatrh lo Tnt Scv
I.onpov, .May 1. The remnants of the
Slim Kelncrs' rebel army, which a week
aso to-day set out to establish a 'He
public of Ireland," surreudeted uncon
ditionally to-day, follnwItiK the example
of the main body In Dublin, which suc
cumbed two rilirhts ago to the Uovcrn
tnent troops after death ntid destruction
had reigned In the Irish capital through
out the past week,
One thousand rebel prlsoneis weie
counted In Dublin yesterday. Iolated
Rroups of snipers who held out In their
well hidden haunts lone after the caplt
illation of the main body surrendered one
by one to-dtiy. Of the 1.000 Insurcenta
taken In Dublin m were sent lo Kiir
land last nlKht. A boatload of 'J.'iO
lirlHonern arrived at Holyhead to-day
There were no wounded amonit them.
Most of them weie Jouiir men and bnj.
They were Immediately put aboard a
train for prisons In the Interior of ICnR
land. Sir John French, command! r In chief
of the Governments forces In Ireland,
repotted officially to-night that all the
rebels In Dublin have surrender, d, that
the city Is "quite safe" and that the revo
lutionists In the country dltrlcts too
have accepted the Government's term of
unconditional capitulation.
l.ate to-nlRht the rebels In Ennls
corttiy, who had made n particularly
stubborn stand, were reported to have
Klven up. Tlie Sinn Peltiers In Queens
town endeavored to flicker with the
Government, offerltiK to tiurrender their
leaders and arms If the rank and tile
should be allowed to ro free. The offer
was refused, the Government's niisuer
belnt; that unconditional surrender was
their only chani.e. The rebds finally
yielded.
Ilnblln tm nfr.
Gen. French's statement follows.
All tho rebels In Dublin have Mir
rendeied. The city bt icported quite
t-a f e.
The rebels In the country districts
arc surrenderliiK to the mobile
columns.
There were l.ndn prisoners In Dub
lin on Sunday, of whom ! were sent
to ICnslatiil l.utt nlfcht.
It Is reporti-1 from tjueen-tnwn
that hopes were entertained there that
the arms of the lebels would be
handed In to-d.iy at the city of Co tit
On Sunday night tho rebels at i:n
nlscorthy offered to surrender their
leaders and anus on the condition tliat
the rank and tile would bo allowed
DR, BUCKLEY'S ONLY-1
DAUGHTER ELOPES
Heroines Seeret Hl'ide of Yoilllir ,
Italian She Met in Settle
ment Work.
!
SHK IS AND HH IS 21
Morristowv. N .1.. May 1 M.ss
Sarah I Muekb.v. only tl.tushttr of the
I!ev. Dr. .I.ttii' M Ituckley, many .vears
editor of lb" New Yolk cirl!in .tdto
mie and one of the best known Metho
dist divines in tlie country, was secretly
married on April 1 to l.rncst I'lgnone.
an Italian Jnurne.vinan tistson who Ihfs
in Flagler street, w.tlim the limits of
Morrlstotvn's Italian dl-tnct. The cere
mony was pel foi ini-I at St. Mark's
Church in New York c'.l. The happy
.voting coujile had planned to announce
the fact of the wedding on June 1. ?t
which time It was, expecled tlmt Ir
Hurltlcv would lie attending the Geneiat
Conference of the Metiiodlst Church in
Saratoga.
It was said to-night by friends of the
family that Dr. liuckley was still in
Ignorance nf his daughters marriage.
The clergyman's telephone was reported
"out of order" and efforts lo see him
were unsuccessful.
Miss flut'Kley Is 3J and I'lgnone is 1M
.vears old. It was asserted lieie that
l'ltrnone's family belongs to the Catholic
Church. Miss Hucklcy has long been an
active woiker In the Morrlstown Meth
oillst ICplscopal Church, of which she Is
a member.
The marriage is the result of a ro
maiite that started In the Neighborhood
IloU'-e with which .Miss Ituckley Is affili
ated its a volunteer worker In settle
ment work. Her activities in this direc
tion often tool; her to the Italian dis
trict I'lgnone, It Is said, visited the
house and frequcntb drove Miss Ituck
ley lo her home in her own atitomo-
' "ciKnone is h fine looking voung man
mill posesses quite a icpuliilion among
his friends us an alhlele. He Is said to
have much ability as a wiesllei
On April 1 the young rotiple went to
New Ymk city "lid weie married. Thoy
('nine back In Morrlslow it after the cere
mony and Miss Hucklcy went directly to
her father's houso at Hi Hill stteel, while
rigiione returned lo Ills home In Flagler
stit-ct. lloth nglt-ed lo keep the secret
fioin their friends nnd the fuel of ihn
wedding didn't become known until to
night. The bride is now quite III fioin an nt
lack of iliinimatlsin and is under Ihe into
nf n plivslohwi. She, Is one of Ihe most
pcpul'tr' youiiK women In Mniristown,
Shu Is splendidly edui-iiled anil speaks
several languages, IncludlliR Italian,
Fieiiclt anil German. She Is a In uiielln,
Is slim and rather tall.
URGE MEATLESS THURSDAYS.
I, tuition lleldrnl Also Simm-M
on-tlcitliolle Vtondn
UiNPov, May 1. An appeal Issuetl
b a ciiinmlttee of twenty-six leadlnif
lesldenis nf London lo-day urges the
public to rffialn from the use of nieat
cv"ir Tliuisdav and tu abstain from
alcohol every Monilay In Ihe interesls
of ecniinui),
The signers of the appeal Include
Government olllclali, selcutlsti mid
writers.
to return lo their homes They weie
Informed thai the only lei ins under
which they could surrender were un
rondltlonal, These, tonus were ac
cepted at t! o'clock A M. Accordlnc
to later teports the rebels are now
surrenderlnR to-day on these terms,
Soldiers mid the, Hoyal Irish Con
stabulary captured seven prisoners In
the neighborhood of Ferns to-day.
Wleklow, Atklow, Dutilevln, Huge
nalstown, Wexford, New Hoss ntid
tho counties of Cork, Clare. Limerick
and Kerry are generally quiet.
The whole of I'lstcr Is reported
quiet.
llrt'oiiMi-iii'tlnn Work Uncut!,
In Dublin the day was tlexottil ehlelly
to rounding up the handful of snipers'
bands who tried to defy the troops even
after they had realized their "cause"
lint of an "Irish republic" was lost
The reconstruction work In the partly
burnt and destroyed centre of the city
Is already under way. The civilian pop
ulation Is being 'alien earn of by the
Government troops, who are distributing
food and tcbulldltiK homes.
I'. II, I'earsc. the "provisional Presi
dent" of the rebels' "republic" is a
prisoner. He Is suffering from a bullet
wound In the leg
James Connolly, the "commander in
chief," s not dead. s officially reported
yesterday, but l wounded and is among
the prisoners.
Gen. Maxwell, tee British commander
In Dublin, reporied this nfternoon that
quiet had been restored throughout Ire
land with the exception of Ashbourne
and Knniscorthy.
Ashbourne Is not mentioned Pi to
night's teport from Sir John Flench
among the placet where the outbteaks
have been quelled. It is thtiefoie pos
sible that here the rebels are sllll holdlni;
nut.
It was Indicated to-day that the rebels,
who Insist on continuing in theh sniping!
activities have little mercy to Xpert!
from the Government, whle't hn wide!
powers under martial law.
The greatest disturbance duiinR Fri
day ami Saturday oecuried In County ;
Meath. north of Dublin. Then the !
rebels had succeeded in "urioundlng and I
disarming a small detachment of l!oal
lrlh Constabulary headed by an lnpec
tor. The canity authorities telephoned1
to Dublin for aid, which promptly arrived
In aimed automobiles A .voung libel'
"lieutenant" with a patty of followers,
bearing the new - of the "army's till ren
der, inarched to Dulilii. Castle, where he
gaw what bad become of his brethren
Pi arse told him it was "all up' and the
Cotifiti'i'd on 7ilnl I'ayr j
RUSSIAN FORCES
NEARING BAGDAD
Defeat Turkish Delnrhiiient.
I Ciiptiinnir Artillerx and
Ammunition Wagons.
TWO A It. M IKS ADVANCING
Sfiffi'il i nt. Ir Htiiateh In Tltr Si s
I'ETnoiiiMt', via London. Ma 1 A
Russian aitny Is new approaching
Bagdad ami has repulsed Turkish forces
thrown out to oppose It. This statement
Is contained In the ofil lal bulletin issued
to-night by the lttisslnn War Office.
For the first time in weeks ltagdad
Is mentioned In the otllclal statement as
an objective of one of the Kussinn ar
mlfs, which made Us way Into Tuikei
through Ihe iniiuntalu passes beyond
KeniiHiisha In Persia. The last news of
this army was about two weeks ago,
when Kdwind, on the Turko-IVrslan
frontier, was captured It Is piobable
that the Hrltlsh army, now about 100
miles below llagd.ul and about twenty
miles below Kut-cl-Aiiiara. Hie none of
I the captnte of the surrounded army, of
Ch-ii Townsheiiil. will cooperate with
i the liusslau fmces
Another liiisMan ainiy is advancing
on Dlarliekr. with the probable Intcn-
Itiou of taking Aleppo and leaching tin
I Meillierranean
The stiiteiuent vvhi, h was Issued to
day I i.iiIh as follows .
On tne Caucasus ft mil. in tlie dl
leeliou of Dlnrbekr. we lepued the
Turks. In the iliie-tion of lligdatl wo
thiew hack nil tiiipiii't.'int enemy do
tachinent to the w.t, capluilng a
portion of their artillery and a number
it ammunition wagons,
IllG 11ATTLE soo.x.
Illll. (ion Turks, Defendlou lirlu
unn, Iti 0itiisi lliisnljiiin.
I'AIIIS, Ma I. A ib iterate battle be
twii'ii a foire of Ion. Dun Turkish troopH,
drawn up In defend LrzliKim, 100 miles
wott of Hi .erilin. In Asia Allnor, and the
inv ailing HunsIiiii niiules Is evpnied
soon, aciordlng to tb" TI Ills con espnnri
cut of the Pat Is .inn no
The lliissiiins, wlin have not met with
,t decisive check since befoie (lie rupture
of Jlrzei inn, ale conlldmt of victory, but
Hie Tiliklsli lendeiH ioalio that If lb"
Itllf-slau offensive is lo bo slopped a de
cisive Turkish vleloiv inusl be n isin d at
once The load to Krzliigau lends to
Slviis, to Angora, mid nn to I'uiiManll
ikjiI". ninl a desperaie effort lo close it
to the Itmtdatin at once In believed im-
nilneiit j
J0,000 HRITlSfl LOST?
'I'ovt lishenil Offeri-il (n It for I on. j
illtliitml surrender, Turks -n..
Ili;ni.l.s', via I.oikIoii, May 1. Accoid
lug to a Coiislaiillnople despatch to the
Overseas News Agency, Hide weie L'O,.
(ion llrlllsh casualties in .Mesopotamia
during Mmili and April
It lit fluted 1 1 lit t Gen To nxlieii'l of
feted to surrender Kut-cl-Aiiinr.i, tvltb
all his iirtlllcrv n ml inoie than fl.nno.nnn
(?.',,non,i)00) In cash, on ciuidiilou Uil
he receive mllltnrv honors, the despatch
says Tlie Turks declined mid Ihe llrlt
Ish tlien suirrudereil iincoinlliioiially.
The booty lias not been reckoned, imi
11 Is known that four Gencr.tlr', 2o oilier
llrlllsh ollhers and 1 ml I it ri ntllcers
were ciitituieil, llalll Pasha, the corn
liutnder of the Turkish forces, permitted
Clen. Townshend tn retain his sword.
I ROOT BOOM BRINGS
LEADERS TO SEE HIM
Nalioiinl Coinmiftedimii War
ren of Mieliij-'aii ('nils al
Hi'ihIiUKiHits.
(H'i:xi:n at Manhattan
First Definite Step of .tepid)
Means to (Jet Hack of State
Candidate.
ttetdquarters from which a campaign
to boom Hllhii Itont f,)r the Presidency
will be directed were opened yesterday
on the eighth floor of the Hotel Man
hattan, where two rooms have been
taken by former Congressman John W.
Dtvlght. with Charles M. Pepper In the
oiling an tho director of publicity.
It Is not the Intention of Mr. Pepper
to wield his pen fioin now until the lie
publican national convention at Chicago
mi June ', In suppoit of Mr. Hoot as the.
very best candidate the Republicans can
find. He hasn't prepared any cltcul trii
nnd he probably will not. It Is Just
possible that some of Mr. lio&t's
speeches may be reprinted In p.tniphlot
form, but so far as plans for the im
mediate future are announced these
headquarters are not to become, a print
shop.
Ilnrnes Mmurstol Idrn.
There Is bark of the opening of tnese
headqualters an idea tli.it viiu suggested
by William Hames a few weeks ago as
the le.uion for his opposition to the ion
tinuaiiic of Fiederlck C. Tanner a
ihairman of tin- ltepubllc.ui Slate com
mittee. That Idea Is that a politn.il cam
paign i ant bo run sueocfull unlets
there is Sinn,, on,, in i.inip.tign for Mi
T..titier, an .idvoc.ile of the nomination
of .lutiee Hugliif. Iielu-vts that en
thusiasm rould be .iluusej even if It were
not at all suio that the petsoii around
whom tliu enthusi,im was to ,tntio
would will-nine it. Air. Minns took the
stand that it was better for the patty
organii.at.ot! to gu; behind outelwii.i who
was known to be a candidate and boost
him with might and main. Such a pro
gramme made foi patty coheieiicy It
kept Hi" maiiiinei working. It de
veloped dlMiH-sain. It was sure to btln
out tin feeltnus of 111" electorate.
Now so fai as is known .Mr. Raines
has nothing to do with tin: opening of
Root headqiiarieis, although b, ,
avowedly In favm oi nominating the
former Senator Rill friend of Mi.
Rool thought hat bv opening headquar
ters thc would l.i eicihodi know thai
.Mr. Root was a candidate. No one would
be left to tbnibt that Mr Root wanted
the place If Hide were mil ie.il demand
for his serviies lie ,il make no formal
aiinoiinteuient ol bis , .indidac.v unless
some liiciiin-iaiice makes that advisable.
Ills headquariciB ate open Anv one u lio
wants to go Ha-ie and sav that he thinks
Mr. Root is He ,,.,t qnaliilod , j,, this
illtllltlv to t,iK" (hatge o It govel mil' Mil
may do so anil he will bo web nine Sev
eial delegates to Hie Republican ii.tliitti.il
tonvention fioin this stale did ih.ii ve..
terda.v
w "rr ,f t li-iK ( ..
Meautvlille Mr R.eit will i oi.fei wi'h
Ids friends thioughotit theioutnr.v Tlio.v
will receive f inn. hlin veiy dellnlt" In
funiiatlon as to his attitude tnu.nd
liiliuineriilile goveininental problems and
.Mr Hwlght and .Mr I'epp, r will see to
It that they ri turn to their lespcrtive
States well supplied wlih Information
as to where to llnd Hllliu Roofs tempi
of seniles pel formed ,n pis cuntr;
Hie of Mr Root's callers ,vcs,rda.v was
National i '011111111101-1111111 Charles It' War
ren of .Michigan
I'olltlcl.ttis admit that tlie opening of
Root hcaihpi.il leis is about I he Hist iletl
ulte step that R piibllcaiis have taken to
boom a nal rici.tclill.il possibility fi 0111
this Stale Inquiry has tailed to ill,
close any nmctto.1 niovemeiit to crys
tallize Hughes si 11II1111 nt. Tlicte his
been no Hireling of tin- deb-gales to the
convention and Chairman Tanner said
o3tcnl.i that ho dldn t know that any
meeting would bo called
Gov. Whitman, who heads the del.-ga
tlou ; .Mr. Tanner and sev-il of the
delegales have tit god .ltis'l-.' Hugles
as a candidate, but Ins attitude Insn't
liiade it possible for tlici' to :i-ep Into
the open with anv tiling tnai looks like
it campaign, lloth Mr. Invlelit and Mr.
repp-r feel that .Mr. Roofs indirect
declaration of his candlilacv v. Ill servo
to give the bewildered something definite
to think about
Mr. Pepper will soon 1. iw foi fill
digit to open headquarter ilieto l.ll.e
life supporleis of other Republican can
didates, bo will make pieparatlons there
to meet the ovpeclcd onslaught of Col
Roosevelt. If 1110 thing Is ilotlnU" '11
tlm minds of Ri publican lea !": - now. II
Is thai tlie Colonel has b 1 weakened
during the lasl Iwn week and ,1 is
their Intention to iiii-umso Mi's weak
ening if the can
Mr Tanner said esletdn thai tills
was th" feeling of organization Republi
cans here Tiny expect tlie Colonel to
threaten the conv etillon with the huge)
of Ills Progressive pally unless be I
tiotTitii.it. d. but with Ihe Massachusetts
results fresh In their minds tlie-e Icul
e:s feel that lie can be bowled out suc
cessfully Campaign he nlqiiaitei s for Gei T
I'obinan ilu Pont were opened jisteiday
In Ihe iccepllon iiuini of the Wablorf
Astinla. It I ilii'lerstisid tin General's
emnsiign fur the ('residential uoniina
tlon will b" 111 full blast 1 o -1 1 . 1 . Ileur.i
lluiielle wan III cliatge of tin- beadqu ir
tets .vesieribiy aftei noon. Th" leception
looni Is back of the newsstand, on Ihe
Tllllt-tlliiil HI reel side of the building
I SATS HOOT WILL LEAD.
J Sennlor H'ndsviorlli lleolnres Netv
V. ork Vlnn In linliiliiu Slronulli,
' WvHillNiiniv. Ma t --IJx-Seii.itiu-
Itoiil will have al least foily voles out
of Ihe New Yolk delegation 011 Hie Mist
Isillot In the t'hleago kiiivi-iiIIoii, accord
ing to nil i-sluiiito iniiile lo-ila.v bj Si-P-n
1 111- Wailsvvoilh The Senator hollow
be will nl.'ii gqt many neb gules i, oihir
States, wlt'i an Incicasliig number of
iiccesslnlis ns Ihe balloting piocecils.
Srualor Wadsworlli was In pt liiis, in
ilny oxplaiuiug In ills colliagijch Juki
what he has to do with Hie Rool luinm
He denied that he was in have oliaigo
of Will hlngtnn headquai leis, bin 11 Is
known he Is ready to assume full icpun
slblllty lor doing hal he can In pio.
mole vi Rool's, candlilacv iiiiinng S, n.
alius anil Rrprrsinlalivc." There will
be no biviiich hcadqiiarlos lieie
Several Senatms piedieli-d lo-ilaj ihnt
Conllinirij 011 Fifth Mac.
ROOSEVELT URGES
PATRIOTNOMINEE
A Man "On Whom Hepulilt
cans, Progressives and Inde
pendents fan Unite."
Ihk pits amkrica i-mhst
lias Not 'Hvpressed Himself
as Heinty ior or Airainst
Any Man."
Ppon leturnltig from Chicago yester
day Theodore Roosevelt put forth a
statement In which he said, speaking of
national convention itolltlcs, that he has
not expressed, nnd does not Intend to
j express himself "as being for or against
an.v man" It Is his evrn.-st hope, he
.added, that thete will be nominated at
I Chicago a candidate whom all Inde
pendents, pattlcularly Independent
I Democrats, as well as the combined Re-
I publicans and Progressives can support.
Col. Roosevelt repeated that he Is not
Interested m the political fortunes of
himself or others and said the delegales
to Chicago ought not to nominate him;
unless they are w snare. I to make the
light along Hie lines of Americanism,
which he has outlined,
Ills statement folluws
"1 never tetunied from a trip through
the West with linnet faith or greater
pride In the patriotism of the people.
What Is necessary Is to inform tills pa
triotism and to rouse it lo deeply serious
lonsideratloii of our tuesoiit national
needs I was most ileepl Impressed by
what I saw and heard while In Chicago
not only roncernliiK opinion lit that
gloat cltv. but III the Central West
geiietall
I --Silrll of NiiiIimikI I nil."
"I st .'1 al. . at r.es'.ni s mid lnrerit
I that 1 tel'itn to 111 home tejolclng In the
conn, t.. mi that our patriotism Is not
j slrmked bv tin lsiuinlary lines of States
j or of sections nor il'vlded along Ihe lints
I of . reed or t.n i.il and national origin.
I but is continent wide and people deep
111 Its intensltv. t vlc.u. Its vision and
1 It spirit of national unitv,
"Manv wei: meaning persons hail
, warned in- nefore I left tin- Kast that
I this was not tint' and tint; if I wished
1 vn sutlsfy Hie people of the ceiitl.ll West
, with 1111 spret-n I would have to tone
I down Hie v.ews I have bieri exviesslng
for many x-.u and espeoiall for the
pas' tw entv -on" months as regard, pre
, parodi, 1-s, national ilut.v and Anmlcan
ism tinialntid l, tie h plieii : and th.it
I w.'tild have 10 soften th" harshness
of the uiipbsisaiii f.ti ts as to the real
nindltloit of the nation Tills was not
a course I could follow
"Wh.r. I sav to one Hri!on of our po
ple is vvlm 1 I sav mall our people voty
where. I have alwavs -sioken anil shal!
ilwavs speak on the isties ,, the da
as oatikli iinrl v go.iiusiy in (,te pari
ul our . ,un, v .1 - -. a1! otliei ..it 1. I
know no West -. L.i.-t. no North, no
Soutli --t o scciiin, at al in presenting
to m.v count-1 men wba. I regatd a the
vital lie, .1 of out nation to be piepared
in iniike good cvei word Us ilnvcrii
ineut al Washington s,,j ,,r,, ,i,.rj iibnl
tin which this nation st.mds
Patriotism ('nines I'lrsi,
"i nm mil .11 the slightest degn-e .on
.t' noil Willi the political lesults to inv
s, If in In ativ other man of ttie views
I espifs I .1111 cnin',-1 lied onl.v with
awakening, iiefir,. ,t is tun late, tin
pitri ilic .pit t that 1 know Is deejily
iiMited ,i, out people and .11 bunging
''. t' u pi pt and l-ien ie.iliz.Uinu ol
0111 1 .'spunsdniitu.,, !l( d iippoiiumties as
jl nation,
"P.itnotism u-iist be the vital. zing and
illieclmg lor,-,- in shaping the policies of
our G.ivoriiiiiciu at v .Islington. It must
not In- tompeied b.v a timid logatd foi
alb gid s'Vtioual Inibrfeiriice to our na
tional rights and dlguit, not- by Hie
own more uiiwnrili fear lh.it some
of nut people put loyalty to the laud
liotn which they 01 their forefathers
sptung above loyalt to our common
II. ig and 10111111011 count!. What we
1 1 at Washington Is ,i national pro
gramme not based on vote getting 0.
voto losing, but reliing on ami having
faith In Hi" in nail patriotism of our peo
ple as a whole, w.tliout ,111 regard
wliatcv't to the sc-llon 111 which our
people live of the iicoil the profess ot
the land irom which their forefathers
came
"It cannot tie e.ial ,j ..f ten that tills
is a time of crisis in tin. naiu.n s cat err.
We are now- la lug down the foundation
and the loiitrolllng lines of a new era
in our hisioi i:orythtng 1 ,.ilM qo
will be it. .in- to si ' that the people. West
and l.'.ist. realize the r.tots an,) act ac
cordingly Ity no act or mine. In no
wold of mine, has th. grave qiKstlon
loon Involved in la. tlnnal polltlm n
ever Stale In whleli the law governs
such manors I have promptl) withdrawn
111 name tiom all factional strangles.
Una nl I It pressed III If,
"In a cable message fioin Trinidad in;
Mai oh : last 1 requested and insisted
that my friends 111 Massachusetts rc
f 1 .tin from such 11 contest ami vvould
have Invoked Ihe law them as ,11,1
In other Smies If them bad In such
a law In that statement 1 i,s0 sai l
that I wns not Interested In tb,. poHtl
cal fortuui either of 111 self or o'hers.
mid I haw trsolutol.v stuck to that do
' termination
"I lime not expressed ami do not In
tend to evpress nijsilf ,S being for or
against mi) man.
"As legal lis in self. I do not bellow
' that the delegates ought tn nominate
mo at I'hlcigo utile.. ih,. in,, prepared
wholeheartedly and without teseive to
make Hie light along Din Hues above
outlined I nm lighting for ieitnlii great
and vital pi Inciples.
"Those who lake their stand In ilijs
matter because of factional or personal
piejiiillco a ither lacking In patriot
ism or else me 1,11ml tn the tremendous
forces nt work the world over. In ihe
midst of a tiagedy without parallel In
t In- world's lilstoi-, and besot hv dan
gers lo ourselves ntilv partly revealed
t oven tn the clearest vision, the work to
bo dime Is nut that of Ihe politician, hut
of tho palrlol
"I'nr thai reason I must eurnrsth
hope Hint Hie delegates who go to n,.
i-iiuii will niiiiiliiiite siime man on wlinni
llipiilillriiiis and Prngnsslif ran ,.,,,.
blue, nnd who iiinreotrr can lie henrtllv
supported hi all liiileienilrlit rlllins.
anil parllciilitrlj h all Independent
Ili'iiiniTiils who are Injnl to the nn.
t lo ti it 1 1 in of Anil re 11 .liirksnn and who
1 e prepared to put ihe vital hnnor and
Interest of this tin tlun almie nil mere
purl ln 11 fini'l'lcra! linn,
"I hope Ibev will choiise a man upon
whom nil can unite and who if circled
nn can be (tlisolulelv reilaln will put the
principles above set forth Into nclunl
effect In the government of the country"
I "Wo want Tedil ,oo," was the sliuut
NO MEXICO WITHDRAWAL
UNLESS CARRANZA SHOWS
HE CAN CONTROL BANDITS
U. 5. READY TO DEFEND ITS
HONOR BY WAR, SA YS WILSON
j President Deflates That the Country Still Has the
I "Don't Tread on Me" Spirit Sees Spiritual
Regeneration in World Conflict.
I WtsiiiNUT'iN. May I -President Wll-.tlce mid liberty slioind i.eloi.g 10 Amu
son lias spoken to the country for the mil in 11. so rat as Win-llou was
first time on the glories Instead of the ;'.,,"l',',l',f'1 "" "" influence Involved.
,,,, , , , "'cy should be extended to mankind
horrors of war. To-day, In an address everywhere. So the Inspiration of sen
before 500 women who have voluntarily j lug Atneiini Is a vrry profound liisplm
entered mmp at Chevy Chase for a
course of "first aid'' Instruction, the,
President told of the spiritual regeiiera-
Hon that he believed would come upon
the I.'nlted States sho'uld It be compelled
to make the great sacrifices entailed by
participation In war
"Gisl forbid tliat we should be drawn
Into war." sa.d the President with Im
pressive solemnity, 'but If we should be
America would seem once more to shake
herself out of ,1 dream and fa, 'Did
any man deem that we were asleep7
Did an man deem that we had forgotten
the traditions of America V DM any
man dtem that he could tamper with
the honor or the Integrity of Hie Ftnted
States?' And in the gnat voice nf na
tional enthusiasm which vvould be raNcd
all the world would stand once more
thrilled to heal the voice of the New
Wotld assorting the standards of Justire 1
and llbeitv."
VI r. Wilson's IdiD-i-is.
Is the text of the I'l esiilent's
llete is tne text or Hie rtesnlent a I mouguis 11111 nacb In wn.it Weie pel
M'eecll : Imp nm divided allegiances 111 tespi.t
"Ladles of the .amp It u iji'h ,in 1 to our relation's to each othet Amoilci
affected ploasuie that 1 . ine to greetlh.nl l en btnught to sqch a point of
ou as .voti have assombl'-d for the in-1 d'veisiilcatlon of intrtct, nf occipatlon,
teiestlng things vou aie going to do. 1 of obje, t sought that sh,. was m d.ingir
1 have alwas felt that thete wa ver.v of living t'10 "iis.-iousness of her slngb.
much mole Inspiration In tilings th it ' tie's and solldanty
wen- voluntarily done than in things '-There weie men pulling at vtoss iur
that were done under ottlci.i' direction poe In ngaid tu the.i private Inlercets
and by othilal siimmons, t ti ml thcii public ende.ivots in this ioun-
"You hale volunteered to come to-'try long before tin- war mine to remind
gctlier without otllclal suggestion in 1 u Hi 11 we won- a single nation with 11
order to study some things which, w bile I .ngle muI and 11 sinKo ideal; and the
they me oli.naoterl.tlo of tho sort of first thing that Ii,, happened to us is
comfort and assistance which women that W" have all been pulled togi tiler '.v
have been a.-iustonied to offer, ate never- a great tug at the heart in to.peit of
theless ,n Hits Instance as-iiolated w 1th j our I11d1vldt1.1l Inteiests.
,1 very great intlonat concetitlon and j "Wo have all been reminded w.tlt an
J," . . enipn.isis for which I. for one. thank Go. I
'Ue of course ale living in the pros-, that we are tliet of all Ani'iilc.ins and
ence of conditions which wo emtio: vet, only after that at liberty to seek our
nse., because they ate unprecedented. individual inler.s! ".Mid then those ..f
Th- world nevei witnessed sin Ii a vvat , our fellow . tizens w '-o mav f..i a I fie
a is now convulsing almost even patt v.li'te have been ieinpie.1 to th.nl. lather
of the world exiepi this part w HI. 1. -we ,,, ,,. j.,,,,,. f then- origin than of His
nive aim ivmiiii -e.-i. i" s:ii..ku.iiii alio
the very foutidatlo-is or the .il.lni.ir life
of nations have been ,Uiiii 1...I s,, ,,.,.py
disturbed that no man an pted.ci w-ha:
the llnal setileuent Mill bo And If this
war has done milli ng else it has a- le 1st
done this t ,,, nn.. I.- Amen, a aware
of daiigets ivbi.'h nio-t nf u had ilertned
111. teal, and ha' iu.nl.. us awate that the
danger nf 0111 own -ime s nothing less
than an unetti'tiicnt of the foundations
of 1 Ivlllzatlon
"t "Iv lll7atioti dues not rest upon war.
It icsts upon pen. e It rets upon those
things winch nieii ,iehl'-ve b.v inoperi-
Hon and mutual intetest In one another.
It does not nourish III the soil of llos.
tilltv and antagonism, am' a wnrldwiiris
a war In the presence of wliiili clillu.i
ttott holds its bioath and woiiileis if i
will itself survive
"As ive See these groat ss,. Jnll.ed
we on this side of tb" water mo done
this gieat s. rv ice Wo are lemmdod of
our spiritual lelatloii not only to this
gtoat struggle but particularly to this
gteat nat.on of which wo ntistlltlto
patts. and out spiritual 1 ol.it ion tn th?
rest of the world Is determined b.v otr
yi1111I11.1l relation to America.
"You have cmne together tn lie pre.
paled for any 11111isi1.il ilut.v whlcl
Ann ilea calls upon you I" peilonn, but
what has moved ott to do this" Your
duty to your touutry. Hut what Is tlm
foundation of that imtv " What do .v,i
conceive America to be '
"When you nine tn the last searchm
analysis we do 11.1t owe any duty 1 xcept
to those things tliat we bellow in, and
ilu- gloiy of pet forming our duty imci'd
Vmeilca ! than we b.'beve In Amoilci,
and we b.'lleve 111 America li.iiisc I
ventiiio to say It with eiulte respect for
other peoples and other Governments
tills 1 invcrnmcm was established wiHi
a special putpos,. such as no other Gov
ei nnieiil ever avowed.
" I'lits 1 loverninetit wa ":ai. 'ie, "i
order I at lustico (Hid l.beitv irigbi he
ong to evotv man whom 0111 i-onsiini-Hon
1 oulil toin h and n-.t mill tint .Iih-
Hint glooted Col Roosevel' when ho ar
rived at the Grand Central Teiiniiial.
The shoiilets nolo lew -nothing like
tlie mob tlmt met the Colonel mi bis
etitt into t'hleago. tot bis anlv.il Hide
was mine generalli known than his is.
1 111 it hole but their enthusiasm ie
ilceiiied their iiumbeis, mid Iheit leader,
who inclined an Vmeilcan tl.ig with all
the suddenness of a iitestnllgilaloi, led
Ins handful of follow ets in the Colonel's
automobile shouling
"Wl'le heloie la-lo Tltlce 1 heels foi
Ihe next I'lesldent'"
Tie 1 heels nolo given, ami Ihe loader.
, tint satisfied with lhat. .-nhlcd In ill-
ileiillal limiult lo the Colonel, "What
wo nerd brie 10 New Yotk Is a little
Roosevelt il nainlte "
Tin- Colonel, slopping wnli one foo'
on the riinnlng boanl of his car, re
plied "Tins people is all ughi all they
need is to la w oki up "
W,tb that. Col. Roo-evelt dofiod bis
hat lo the crowd and stmted on his
way to Sagnmoio Illll
GERMANS DENOUNCE T. R.
Ili-slllools of W'nslllimtllti Slate III
Hitler Opposition,
Tu-iiMi. Wash Ma 1 The G 111
AiiHilc.iii Republican Clubs of western
Washington went on rc-nid here to-dt
as opposll-g Hie niilllll'.ltnin of Theodore
Rooseiilt foi the I'resl.li 111 y n snlu
f.ill opposing Ron-evdt was ailoptrd, In
be nililllllt.il lo delegation altomliilg 1)10
Slate Republican convention at North
Ytiklinu this wi ok
"Wo tiusl .vou will lead this n solution
as 11 suggestion to delegates who will go
lo the Itepillilli-aii convention ilt f
(ago " is the wind to accompany the
lenlutiili III nuilieinus speakers Roose
velt wns denounced, -soinc of II11111 say
ing that under 110 possible condition
would Get man Ainci leans vol for him If
nominated.
Insplriiili r lb,- ( iHiflli-l.
H.lVe villi Hot tlmio-ht llh.it mllit
. be tin outioine of th.s gnttt sltuggte, so
i.ir as in" nations alteauy engigul are
concerned" cnn oil not Imagine the
great awikeiniiK that has 1 otn" lo a
country like Frame, for exiinip:e, how
much more lu.enseiy ever Frenchman
I mid every tie-man fo,r the Minimal
I compulsion than In- ever Ml It nefore .'
now much tnoie he f.-els hitnef not
an individual but a fia-tion In gieat
whole? How tit lie- .1 more his b,ood sprinc
to the challenge of patriotic suggestion?
"He N not lighting for his own lit.-.
He s v u-oti, ,m Ujt imn j f , , mint,
to sacrlllie it. in 1,1,1, r thai a gre-atei
th-.ui ins might p-risi, the life of
h.s nation So 111 Unci l.-u vie u.e ga
ting illicitly the liiilheot betieil; u( Hmt
suggestion We nto In ginning to -ealize
how 0 11. 11. mi is ,1 milt and that any
individual ot it Who does not feel the
impulse, of Hi,, whole in,.s not lielotig
to it and doc not belong in It.
"We have lieatd ,1 fie.it ileal about
Jlvldeil allegiance In this counttv. but
( before we disc i divided alligl.itue In
tits olilical aspect w- ought lo let nil-
" Lmil of the 1
ptesetit altegiamo have
l' en t. illiliil. , lhat tnere
speaking, onlv one aliegian
and po,ssii.T,.
I-. politlcall;
e con. eiv.ible
"1 Hi lied Vl'ollt H1pln.11.
' Vim have heanl a gte.it deal about
the hv phot, I foi one have in vol- In n
ileielved Tile lllllllli.'l of pesolS of
reallv il.vi.b'd nlleglai 111 th,s ootin-
ti I v.i uiall and if I had Im-n burn
tn some otlu-i rountiv 1 would nseiit
( lb"
mad
I' I elit.ltlolis Willi It bale been
!' those who nolo lull Hie slloke.
men of those tne win, 111 tbov protended
to speak In suggesting 1 divided al
b gl.im e
"I have tiew i bad the l,gbtist doubt
n' what would happen when America
calb-il upon tin t her citizens I1..1.1
in other . ..until. -s tn cine In the sup.
poll ..I the 11. ig !i), th. v will nine
with .heirs, thei will come with a mo
mentum which w.ll make us fall?,- that
America has nm,. more be, 11 ( rletl
awake out of evi ry sort of illstoinpet ami
dream m.d illti aetlon mid that anv
man vvlm dales tamper with the spirit
of Alltel CM Will be cai nut of the onll-
flih-n. f a great nation up. .11 tlm In
stant 'I believe Jh.lt 11 lertlllli pllltu,ll
1 rgeiiei .11 on i go.ng to cm., out of
tin" Hung We have been thinking too
11111. Ii about otir lndii i.lual solvis ami
too tntl" about the coiiiiti' of which wi
lopstitute a pail, and one of the her
vile whl, ii volt ladles al" going to
1 en. h i s to simw how. upon tin summons
nt all. upon tile mere ntfering of the
opp.'itunlt . Momni vvll com,, tngitho"
tn lender those inr stlmable .rvl.-es
whirl) me ni'i-i'ssii if Ihe count!'
should get Into ntiy .iil nf t rouble '
It
d .
sell
1 1 -o
was iifit Hut
.1 :h 11 Vlnei en
01:; . f 11 dro in
tin Pre-
would ":
'dent pi 1 -
,'lke hi I
I- O lit III
. he ,.',1
1 ' 1 1 1 w 1
It'll-
I ' h 1 .
tl.
ASTOR JOINS NAVAL
RESERVES AS A FLIER
I'iissps sji'.-d I'.Miiiiin.il iiiii
for I'ulisliiii'iil lulu Sec
null tint tiilion.
Yin. et 1 Vs'n. irnioteil ove! in ill.
III. 11 tel. of ihe ,-e, ntid Naval II. illation,
Naval Reset ve. at the foot of Flfl.sec
'mill Mi cel. Ilrnokl 11, last night and
made f.umal application fm oiillsitiieiit
In the battalion newly inganizcd aetiiil
. 01 ps.
l'..'lluiilh ho was pip throiisb the
,'liv si.-.'i oxainlJialioii by the battalion'.
I'll sici.Ni. In. Lynch, and was 1 m s -.(1 .
It. '.hv' ""ir."' of a i"l. he !!! ta!;..
Hie .i.it ti of enlistment and begin Ids
training Cnminodoii' Robert I'm shew,
bead of the N'nval Militia of New Yuri;
Stale, u-ccived Ml Astor s appllcat ion
Some lime ago when the Seiond
llaltalion ilocidcil lo omaulze an aerial
col ps Mr Aslor iicai'd of Hi., plan and
v.illllit'ci id to suli.-'ci lb" tnwaid Hie
1'iirchase nf a li.nlinaeiiiplane The
ll'i-ll nf Die S, llllllloll Slllisi'l'lbeil l. 1
mill Ml. stol rlipi'lled tl'C V'.l'llll mine
peccsMlt foi tile piucliase of .1 Hill-
chine
If the picsoiit pt ..gramme does not
miM-iirey Ml Astoi Will b" pOmntei In
the nlf!i-e of oni'lgii us toon as he liar
innsliieil the I'llilluieiils of iiimil aerial
work iinl later will be made a luiitenant
and placed in comui.inil of the li.ut.ilion s
aerial corps..
I'liilcil Stnk's Alny Inter
'iit if Canaiiistas At
tack American'.
DllASTIf TOLTCV V
WIUSOX INDICATED
Warninr Sent to Hip "First
Chief" Through Two
riiannels.
.No DK3FANP 3r.l)K
VKT r.V OIUiKfiOX"
Helief Is That the ronfer
ences Will On On
To-dny.
W.vslliMiTo-'. Ma' 1 Througn twj
channels the Fulled States notified Gen.
Calt.inza to-day that It does nor desir
a; th's, time to discuss tlie question 0!
w itliilt, living tli" American forces fiorrt
M( xn o
At the ildictioti of 1'iiSi.bnt Wilson
Se-ietary Raker has si udvifed lien.
Scott, wim s conferring with Gen.
(Jbiogou on the border.
Alter 1 otistiltatiiiti wit 11 Secretary
Raker mid t'otiuselliir Polk. Se. letary
l.aiis.ng later In the day Inform' d L'ilse)
Arredor.-ln, tb" Mexican Ambassador
Designate, in response to a pie--itig In
qirri fiom (he latter, that tin- American
Co vertiineiit would not be in po turn to
answer Gen Can anz.i s formal lequcst
101 the withdrawal of tin- tin..ps until
tl.e .011. lusloii of the s. ott-Oliiegim con
fiionii's
till lilgn otiicial an'.!, 01. tv it ituy bt
sad tliat I'tesident Wilson has no In
tuition of wlth'liawliig the troop", how
ever .ns. sit ut Carr.tnza 111.1 be, until
the de facto Government of Mexlm has
ilem'nt"lrat"il In a practical way Us
ability 10 oouliol tin- s tiiit.on in nortn
irn Mexi. o and to plow nt 1 p. i.i.on uC
tin b.ii. br oiitiagis
Hon- lli-iisllo si,.., 1 nillciteil.
Ml til" basis of llif.,1 III. Itl.'ll "I , . I
.'Ion the salllo souioo till- Illfeieil II
h.iwii that If Hi" I'arr.inz.i auilin. itie 1
attempt tn 1..1, up an.v threats , nii
a.tu.il ati.i k mi the Amcm-an fo'n-s ,n
Alexin ihe Admliiist: nliiiii 1 .rfi..rr.l
, to invaib: M-xiio in tor e and take su. 1
lllltll'l- Slips ,ts inij ,, , f ,
the eablisbU!iit of a .stable g.i 1 ei..
III. 'lit in thai . 1 1 1 1 1 1 1
That tlm Caiiauz.i ti ..eiiinu i,t wu d
halo oieiiHiing to lo'- ami iiotung to
gam in 11 long run b.v u, h a develop.
tiKi.l is an atgtimein depended up."- in
Adininistialloii cinle t. porsu.i.l, ,1.1,.
umi "I.. lllen to le.lsoii' and t 1 1 01,. pi 1 1
dis. is nun Gen s. ..it 11, v ,..n, in:
I I" I. H i"ti between Ihe 1111l1t.11. fn n i
of Ihe urn Guv eminent.- in t.1 puisi,;
of Villa and t'.e in,., I ,i-p 1 -a I u i
bandit follow ers
, The ciiinmutii.atli'M t, g. i, s..,.i- -,,.
Sllil tills HI.'IIIM.Ml , rim,s, t,, ,11, ( .
quill 1 1 urn him foi an innpiitb atiia. ot
ins liistriiiiions Aiilti.ii.il Hie ,.f e
St. nt had stated in bis repoii to ,:, n..
tat Rtliei that untiling like a iimvii.
torv il.'uand f,,t a witb.liiw.il ,,t i,.
Aiiieilcaii oxpo.lltiou In. I ...mi made If
Gen iiliiraon tho latiei h.ol mdi, ate'l
.1 lies,,,. f, XI'I e-n! "II 11, 1 p, t,C
fl"lll t" l-llo, Sl.llos Gnler-llili rit II..
I "I o p'o. oidltig I ill tl sr w 11 Ii i, 10 nog, iila.
tun.
1 oat 1 iniogoii 1 1 ,i .
Is leg.lldeil 111 orfil.ll ill es '1
11. nn- il 1. nt not t, -1 u ,
tl.'.ilgh i il!z 'ig tnat the fin 11,.
ei-niii. nt ,11 glu go , 1
joe. .. to .'impel .1 twtiiilr.iw il oi
peil -IOI-. .1IT1, ,.,- 1, ', ,, ii
mi tld, 11, 1 who I111V" . aiivassed 1
11.1t mi, .1.. not belnvo lhat Co .
s ' "ii lo make good su. .1 . - 1
.1
an
u
-x
i
l.t
J
1 H lll lllliu llvpccleil.
1 It IS ie,'.il,, PN
"' i1. ma an .ictlw- p.ut i'.i ,,
: . e ,1 mges in jUllr. 7. thai 1 j.
".' vi.e.-t, .1 to imi,,, . up ,
iibii-Koi mat .-my lock I., tw
two ' loveriinientH brought aim. Il
bv
' :-" 1,1 ( airanzista- mi p, ,
'..I. e Wnll'il plnbal'l.l toice I., 1
.state ., .solf.protfcliiiti 1,1 uiioTi C
I ei t etlt loll, nffleiaU ,cte p,,,t .,
.111. 1 tlio.v do not nppen- tn b. .1 ,i , .
'- r 11 in ill, ussiiig priva'. i
possdellty i.r llti ivention WOllll n
thociill.ijisr nf iliei'airanzs G". in ...
Almiilv threatened l,j Hie .unliifo
nv.il lenders vvillilu nnd wliliou
i'oiisiiiuiiii,,,,t paiiv, in, I lad
funds at lionio nr ornllt aln-o.id, in,
lana legime, it , expl.i. I. d. . .. .
ovist long if th,. Fiuied .. ;, .
its stippot t oi began tlie !.iv of , , ,i
up Cue situation m Me,i ,.
Nor .-"Ul.l the I'niie.l Si,,.,. . j
it siipior1. even tlmugii It m u1
Intorvoii" In force it is s,,n. if C
mil onl.v infused to oimperaio in t n i
liable i flin t nf the Fnitod Sta'o .
Uh tl.e hmnlltb who raided -.,i'i
but Hied Ii fore t i duvo the ,v ,,.
fiuce- fr.nti VIi xico
in the other hum it . , , .1
that the Citiaiiza Gow r-'i'.-et i . .
. oil, Hi,, if llifotigh oo.iii. i'iion i
"tu-olllage the l'lllted Stiles t.. .
fill liter .ml In hrlpiuc that i,...i
be. inn - iii u.iiit.'il on a sisble f.iim.i .
I In
' i till II In I slilo,
A. to 1 1, in haul,' I's. i. III. ',.!- of '
Dopartmoiit t eluai-ked slglllli t
t.i-da.v. air W'lling. oven i agi i .
niniii'v to i 'a r ia uza and lot,'
MIM.. '111111 out the llemolaliel lb .
of th nm v pro ided he . n .1,
Sll.lt, III allllU tO IIMI'tlll.!! i , i
nml solw-ii'. i iooi ninoiit. I'm l, i , ,
ciinist.iu. es Mould thi'M' or mi' ' ,
bulk, rs end iiinnr.i In i Govei. ,c
Hun was nil-kit g at cms pii'i.ic n
, the l'lllted Stat' -
(illlcials in position i. speok v ' ri
lhoiitisav that snob Is ihe situa'
it must appeal lo tin nvoie lie .g tt '
atnoiig Cariiinza's ndi isei Ti.es. . s
mid that If Obregnn sees the s".ia- q
I lhat llglil and yields n will be pr t
I for Ihe confcieiHC to piou-cd to tin Me.
1
mi
'AM
f!1
Hi
i
PI
