AIM QUERQUJE MORNING JOURNAL.
CITY
TUITION
CITY
EDITION
nil.. I I.. -
"ALBUQUERQUE, NEW MEXICO, TUESDAY, MAY 2,1916.
ir in
URQPE
IS AWAKENING
AMERICA, SAYS
THE PRESIDENT
Itttllv liv rari'l.-r up Mull ftOVi
It Month. Single, Coplcw. 5J
THE WEATHER
Till: EATHKlt IOKECAKT. ,
Denver, Colo., May 1. New Mex
ico: ruesduy und Wednesday flr
with rising temperature.
HEAVY SHEW
LOCAL WEATHER REPOttl.
For twenty-four hours, ending at
p. m. yesterday.
Miixlmum temperature. D3 degrees
iiiiniiiium, 37 degrees; rung?. It)
grees; temperature at 6 p. m.,
degrees; east wind; cloudy.
do-44
C1TV BANK CLEARINGS.
Yesterday
i;4.2i7.4:i.
rhiaf Fyprtitivfi. Addressing
ww , v .extended to mankind everywhere. So
UUIIU Ul ' vuitft i"e inspiration or serving; America
in
nlnr. Ponnlo nf llnitpHi41 Vf'y Profound triKpiratkm.
Ueuaica i v. whvm ..Hilve you not thought what might
lie tho outcome of thU great struggle,
ho far as Hip nations already engaged
are concerned? fan you not imagine
the great awakening that has come to
a country like France, for example;
how much more Intensely every
Frenchman and every German feels
the national compulsion that he never
..u ti .. i . ... .
r r' i' ' " now niui'n more lie teeis
Danger rrom uiversittcation j iiraMir. not an individual but a, frac
tion in a ureal wnoie : now mucn
more his blood springs to the chal
lenge of patriotic suggestion? He is
not fighting for his own life. Ue Is
sacrificing his own life, or willing to
sacrifice It, In order that a greater
life than his might persist, the life of
his nation. So In America we are get
ting already the Indirect benefit of
that suggestion. We are beginning to
States Recognize Duty,
FOREIGN-BORN WOULD
RESPOND TO CALL
of Interests Would Cease at
Moment of Real Peril to
Free Government,
' ti HORNIM JOUHNAl SOICIM. LltltD WIMI
Washington. May l.-VAmerlca re
awakened In national spirit through
lessons el the war in Europe, was me realize ho wa nation is a unit and
theme of an address by President Wil- jftr,d that any individual of it who does
BY GERMANS IS
ADMINISTRATION
AFTERMATH
OF
SEVERE REPULSE
Nothing of Importance on Rus
sian War Front in North;
Austrians Are Forced to Re
treat in South,
FRENCH MAKE GAIN
IN ARGONNE REGION
MEASURE FOR
PHILIPPINES
IS
FINALLY KILLED
First Decisive Defeat for Presi
dent Wilson in Present Con
gress; Many Democrats
With Republicans,
QUEZON WILL NOT
RETURN AS DELEGATE
Irish Rebellion Is Suppressed Substitute for Jones Bill De-
and Arms Are Being Laid
Down Unconditionally by
the Revolutionists,
dares Independence Will Bt
Granted
Defined,
Kaiser's Answer
to President Is
Believed Friendly
Merlin, May 1 1,4:00 p. m.. Via Lon
don; 11:30 p. m.r Future German
American relations prohuhly ran be
looked forward to with less apprehen
sion. The Associated Press is permitted
to make this statement although dis
patches bearing on the nature of the
tJerman reply to the American note
respecting submarine warfare have
been stopped by the censorship.
The deliberations at German great
headquarters have been eoneliii'ed
and Ambussador Gerard will leave
this evening for lierlin, arrlUng here
Tuesday afternoon.
Tho German reply Is expected with
little delay, but It Is considered un
desirable that preliminary Indications
of the nature of the nolo should be
published abroad.
CARRANZA MAY CHOOSE
BETWEEN CO-OPERATING
WITH UNITED STATES AND
ACTIVE INTERVENTION
on today at the opening of the na-jot fePl tne impulse of th
tional service scnooi military en-1 does not belong to it
cainnment tor young women, in con-
whole I
i
V HORNINI JOUftNAL SPFCIAI. tltD WINS)
The repulse by the French of pow
erful
Man's hill and counter-attacks to the' uthol.u independence for the In-
north of Cumieres, again has been hinds within four yours, was lost In
German attacks around Deud .... ,..,, ,..',
I'llie mil null lia V mill, MOK'llllIlli lit
followed by heavy German bomburd-
elgn Invader, Representative Tow
ner of Iowa, the' runkimj minority
member of the Insular committee, In
sisted that the Islands were valuable j
possessions ami were unprepared for,
freedom.
"lliut't h.til .l..tv.. ,1... rii.it" .
Granted at Some Time Not th,. i,urde of a score f speeches
from the republican side. Represcnt
atlve Cooper of Wisconsin, republican,
struck a discordant note on the min
ority side by declaring that while the
flag wan In the Philippines the con
stitution had not been there.
Noted Anniversary.
On the eighteenth anniversary ofj
tho battle of Manila bay, the Philip-1
pine independence bill was taken up.
V MOSNIMa JOUNMAk fCIAk It AMD WIOBl
Washington, May 1. The adminis
eluding the president voiced a warn
ing that the honor and integrity of the
raited States cannot be tampered
with. He prayed that tho country
should not be drawn into war, but de
clared that If It should be, "in the
sreat voice of national enthusiasm
which would be raised, all the world
would stand once more thrilled to
hear the voice of the new world as
serting the standards of Justice and
liberty."
Brieves in Foreign-born.
The president expressed confidence
that in time of trouble the great mass
of foreign-born citizens of the United
States would be loyal. "I never had
the slightest doubt of what would
happen when America called upon
those of her citizens born in other
countries to coma to the support of
the flag," he said. . "Why, they will
come with cheers, they will come
with a momentum which will make
ui realize that America has once
more been cried awake out of every
sort of distemper and dream and
- distraction,., atnl that "any iiian ' who
dares tamper with the spirit of Anier
tea will be cast out of the confidence
of a great nation upon the instant."
The address follow'
Text of Address. '
"It is with unaffected pleasure that
I come to sreet you as you have as
sembled for the interesting things
Mm ioiiKi tnnlirht. After votinu 2 1 ft
to ier, to strike out the Clarke amend- 'n ou"' '' unanimous consent
Sitting us the committee of tli
the'pHssed u a substitute for the entire i whole tlte house tonight voted, 193 to
No fresh infantry attacks irnc.'uros the Jones bill, providing for
r mem oi tnese sectors ana a conunua
"W. haveTeard a great deal about i11"" f h ' ?o,e du Po.vre moot, the house by a vote of 261 lo 1
divided olleirlnne. In tl,l. ,.n,.nlrv . W Rn1 1JnllUm1. nortneast Of
e-i - ... j t - T
MEXICANS AT JUAREZ MUCH
DISAPPOINTED OVER STAND .
TAKEN BY WASHINGTON
General Scott Is Notified by Secretary Baker to Make It Plain
to Obrcgon That No Withdrawal of American Troops Is
Contemplated at This Time; Pershing Can Occupy Re
stricted Zone in North While de Facto Government Forces
Hunt Down Bandits; Headquarters at Namiquipa Are Be
ing Strengthened and Placed in Condition as Base for
Any Emergency Which May Arise; Gloom Pervades Offi
cials of First Chief Who Had Expected That Evacuation
Would Occur on Demand of War Minister. '
IRl, to eliminate the provision of thei
(By Morning Journal Special Leased Wire.)
El Paso, Tex-, May 1 Informa
M-Mimr lnunt'hpd the Germans a', eater measure of self-government Philippines bill authorising the presl-
w. ' we ought to let, Bappln operations In the Ar-!tn ho Philippines, and carrying: a pre- I dent to grant Independence to the
our thoughts run back to what were i s. .u. .-..,.. ....... I lMi..nd In f,,r ve,- Thu wm .:
, . ., . .. , . Konne rorest tne rrencn were enaniea . ueioio u-i.i.ii ik nt, ,,nennin ui u,e - tlon frnn, Waahliiclnn'thnt Keerelurv
perhaps our divided allegiance in re- f .. , . . . . .. . ,..... . , ..... , i, i.,ii,.,i n mrnnlm. rinfent tnv ih m.. "0" irom wasningion mat tMeniar
, . , , . w .. : Dy ine explosion or a mine, to taae um " nuur m nim inu-iiniunni. i r -
T"'11 ,U1 l". lal" i portion of the crater. Ultimately but without fixlna a date
America nits oeen urouKnt to sucn a ; . , . 1
i point of diversification of interest, of ! " lra"""' B ' ' ; !
occupation, of objects sought, that ' H,u" lne """"' ,luu" .,, over tne neateo protect or aumtnis
........ ibattU front in Russia aescrfliff .. . til ii i:.... ! l...- i, i..
sne wa in aange.r or losing tne con
sciousness nf her singleness of solidar
ity. There were men pulling- at cross
purposes in regard to their private in
terests and their public endeavors In
this country long before the war
came to remind us that we were a
single nation, with a single duty and
a single ideal; and the first thing that
has happened to us that we have all
been pulled together by a greut tug
at the heart in respect of our individ
ual Interests. We have all been re
minded with an emphasis for which I,
for one, thank God, that we are first
of all Americans, nnd only after that
at liberty to -eek our individual inter
est. And then those of our fellow cit
izens who may for a little while have
battle front in iiussia, aencrair , tu
Berlin, .hut in the south the A .ro
Hungarians have been forced to with
draw before a counter-attack by the
Itusssians from trenches north of
Mlynov, which they had previously
captured.
Two llrltish war craft, the armed
yacht Aegusa and the mine sweeper
Nasturtium have been sent to the. bot
tom In the Mediterranean by comiug
in contact with mines.
Tho British troops and the Itoyal
Irish constabulary have brought
about the surrender of ull the rebel
forces in Dublin and the people of the
Irish capital for the first tim In a
week are able to tnovo freely about
the city until endangered by bullets of
rebel snipers.
In the country districts of the is-
heen tempted to think ruther of the
lands of their oriKin than of the land' hand tho rebels also are laying down
of their present allegiance, have been j their arms and quiet, is said to prevail
reminded that there is, politically In most of the places where disorder
speaking only one allegiance conceiv- i previously had been reported to exist.
abl and possible, A large number of the 1,000 prisoners
you are going to do. I have always j Little Divided Allegiance. ! taken In Imblln have been sent to
folt that there was very much morej ,.Vou havj hpard a RI.eul deai about ! England.
.niuauou ,n uiiaKs wiui ll" Ithe hyphen. I, for one, have never
imtarily done than In things that bocn do,,elve(,, The number of per-,
were done under official dir ection of dlvlP, ai,.giance in this i
ftnd by official summons. You hnvei . v ., nnl, ,f , hll(1
volunteered to come together without ibopn m 8omp ()thpr eountry T w0l,ld( I
i.e, nun ,inu.,n, ine nouse, ny a vine
of 20S to 134, Instructed Its conferees
not to agree to any declaration setting
a (Winite time for granting the Is
lands their Independence. Kpeaker
Clark named Hepr, sentative Jones of ;
Virginia, and Garret of Tennessee,
democrats; and Towner, of Iowa, re
publican, as conferees.
Now the bill goes to conference be
tween the two houses, with the op
ponents of the Clark amendment sat
Mied that It Is dead at least for this
session of congress.
TnkrM Final Y,rt!.
The house remained in session until
i tlon on a final vote
The debate began under an agree
ment between demoeiats and repub
licans for eight .hours providing that
at the conclusion of general d 'bute
Baker had Instructed General Scott
laud General Kuuston to make It plain
to General Ohregou that any agree
j ment reached nt their conference
j here must not be Imsed on any plan
i for Immediate withdrawal, was re-
uie i.u kb nintMiuiiieiii lor im,e,en-,.,..,, ...u i ,,.,.., ,l,.,,,
dence within four years shall be taken
General ubregoti refused any com-
.... v.... .. 1..... ..II
R ,,,-u .,, ,(lH,nt( Buyln)f h(l W0(1(, llH(lit (,V(I.
Defending the Clarke amendment, j pients ut his next conference with
Representative Jones, author of the ; lh Am(1 .!,.,, This. It was expected
bill, declared that the choice pre- j tonight, will take place tomorrow, ul
scnted to the senute was between though it was thought possible that
'vague, Indefinite, meaningless and j it niiKht 1H d. la.ved until after the
almost inconceivable proposition und j ,.t;KUial. Tuesday cabinet meeting at
redeem the sol-
tho deniooi'atic
an honest effort to
enin promises of
party."
Representative Jones pleaded with
the republicans to support the bill
late, tonlKht lo take the final vote. erane ne am t oionei uooseve.i,
Thirty d, mocrats Joined the solid re- I w,l lH 1,1 ' ,hp presidential
mibllcan mlnorilv in defeatina- tlin I fnilJtlute of the. republican party,
Clarke amendment, which had
been ' ,IH'' Mpproved Philippine tndepen-
dence.
Representative Towner of Iowa,
ranking republican of the insular
committee, opposed the bill, maintain
ing that there was no more reason for
GERMANS HURL
CONFEREES if
official suggestion in order to study
some things which, while they are
characteristic of the sort of comfort
and assistance which women have
been accustomed to offer, are, never
theless, in this instance associated
with a very great national conception
und duty.
"We, of course, are living In the
presence of conditions which wo can
not yet assess, becausse they are un
precedented. The world never wit
nessed such a war as Is now convuls
ing almost every part of the world
except this part which we particular
ly love and would seek to safeguard:
and the very foundations of the or
dinary life of nations have been dis
turbed, so deeply disturbed that no
nian can predict what the final-settlement
will be. And if this war has
done nothing else, it has at least done
this: it has made America awure of
duiiftors which most of us liutl deemed
unreal, and has niad u awaro hU
the danger of our own time is notli
Ing less than tho unset! lenient of the
foundations of civiliieatlon.
Rest lHn lvai-e.
"Civilization does not rest upon war.
ft regtg upon peace. It rests upon
those things which men achieve by
eo-opcratlon and mutual interest, in
"ne another. It does not flourish in
the soil of hostility and antagonism,
and a world war is a war in the pres
ence of which civilization holds Its
beath and wonders if It will Itself
firvlvp. As we ee these great Issues
Joined, we on this side of the wuter
Me done this great service: We are
"minded of our spiritual relation not
0ily to this great struggle, but partic
ul'ir!y to this great nation of which
eonstitute parts, and our spiritual
for one, resent the representations j
which have been mude by those who
were not the spokesmen of those for '
whom they pretended ' to speak In j
suggesting a divided allegiance. I i
have never had the slightest doubt of j
what would happen when America j
called upon those of her citizens horn j
in other countries to come to the sup- i
port of the flag. Why, they will come ;
DENSE MASSES
I
to. Retake Lost
given unqualified endorsement by
President WilNon. It was the first
murked victory of the year over any
part of the president's legislative pro-
igrnm. and the republicans were noisily
Jubilant over It. After each victorious surrendering tno Philippines tlmn for
vote they applauded for several mill- hurreiidei lug Hawaii or Alaska.
utes and by way of mocking the dem-
ocrats emitted repeatedly the famous!
"rebel" yell of the majority, llemo
crats accepted their defeat in silence, i
DoiiKHTat NokbIIvc Vote. i
The democrats who voted nsalnsl
ithe Clarke .amendment were: Allen, i
Ohio; Hcakcs, Michigan; Bruckner, j
Carew, Conry, Pale, Dooling, IHiscoll, j
Farley, Fitzgerald, Klynn, Griffin, I
llulhort, .Maher, Patten, Itiorden and
timun, rvew Torn; t unny, niuryiau'i,
Kiignn, llamil and Hart, New Jersey;;
ISstnpinal, Louisiana; Gallagher. Mc-j
Andreds and Mcpermott, Illinois:
Galllvap, Olney, I'hclan and Tague, I
Massachusetts, and O'Shnughncssy, I
Rhode Island. I
I
FINALLY AGREE
ON ARMY BILL
Washington. Among other Mexican
ol'fkiuls gloom was openly expressed.
It was pointed out that General Obre
Kon hud come to th. border confident
that he could persuade Generals
Wcott and Kniisfon that the American
expeditionary lorces should be with
drawn at once. Hoeietarv linker's
Instruction t" the American conferees
were regarded as completely blocking
the hopes of the Mexican minister of
war.
Wait OhicgoiiH llcply.
Speculation In Kt i'nso tonight dealt
with tho reply that General obrcgon
will make to the proposals Generals
Kcott and Kunslon will present, at
the next conference.
In some quarters It was pointed
out that, the only course he could
of General Pershlng'a men art now
well within 200 miles of the border.
COlXMItrs KVPKCTH
lKVtXOIMf"..VTH ijSOOX
Columbus, V. M., May 1. Mllllury
authorities at the base wimp hero ap,
poured to bitlieve' tonight that events
of some Importance in, tha Mexican
situation ate Impending.. A spirit Of
anticipation seniusd to b manlfml.
over the reservation, ullhoiiKh-no Usi- ;
inite reason was offered.! Ho Idlers of
tho garrison are beinx kpt close, to
IhA rurl.ri. lilt, li. MU.. ., I a . .
. .,..!...., imUIIHUR V fl'.
move, w ai ranted by dvvelopmeuU).
Four (tninpiuiies of Infiuitl'V received
mulching' jurders today und it Is be-
lleved they will get under way tomor
row. 1 . . w,,
It Is known that Gen. J, J. Per-
shllitf, t'xiieditlonufy uiuuiunder, la
being kept closely In touch with the.
conferences In El Paso und Juares
und is laying his plana accordingly.
A long and what was said to be tin
Important message from" El Paso was
truiisiiiitied to him over the army
wireless today, but no Inkling of Ha
contents wm given out here.
From military headquarters rnm
the statement that "there have been
no new developments In the field, and
all operations are at a standstill pend
ing the result of the conferences."
A report that a detachment under
take would be to accept, the plan of j Jan"' ,:''wl" 'been en
the I'nlted .States government to co- '" ny .iextnus was uenteu.
. .. I.. ....... nnr,...l,..w.a ...U1..1.
cried awake out of every sort of dis
temper nnd dream anil distraction,
ana that any man who dares tamper
with the spirit of America will be cast
out of the confidence of a great na
tion upon the instant.
"I believe that a certain spiritual
V MOSMINa JOUttNAl.PtCIAL LIA.IO WIS!)
Washington, May 1. Hope for un
....... . I p u.. .........
tight! i, Jin, i tin.,? on in,-, nnl
rent KHiiiauuoii on, net Mien "i iHiiir,
with cheers, they will come wttn a Afomr,f
momentum which will make us realize j nUcmpi
that America has once more been! Tronrlioe Mcir VanA Mon'c The first vote taken after
. iw-viivw i.w, VMM , hAiiru lit cmIH mil tao ttf h, it; hnA
Hill Is Repulsed With En-! r . votes an , ZulttlZJZ ZTXmI
' , senate provision. C hairman Jones of . , a ,. .' .
OrtnOUS S aUglter, the insular affairs committee, then H f"r "ego.la. on of differences
b attempted to, procure the adoption of between the ssenatc and hnm, on the
substitutes extending the time limit ,""""r nrmy WHS
in o.n, jous.ai. .p.cial uiiii mm for freeing the Filipinos. They wer Semite conferees agreed to yield on
Pari iM.-Oy X (12:01 Hk : m.) ouicklv voted down. The first, toi'he proposed standing army of 2i0,-
..i ,.p
regeneration is going u, io,,,r ' German troops In dense masses made
this thing. We hove been t .inking j & vjoient
too much about our individual selves t.apUirf.d ,)y ,hft Krpnch north
and too little about the country or j ()f D(iftd Wans), hju w th(j Verdun
which we constitute a part, ami one i front Thg attack waa d(,ft,atpd )y
of the services which you ladies are , rroni.hi lho wftr offR,0 rop()1-t
going to renuer is to snow non, i.,",.. , th)s( aflprnoon gliyHi Th c.ermuns,,
no summons at all, upon the mere "'-j lhe announcement states, suffered
forino- of the opportunity, women win
come together to render those lues- j
timable services which ac necessary
if the country should get into any sort,
of trouble,
"God forbid that we should be
drawn into war. but If wo should be.
America: woulil seem once more t
shake herself out of a dream to MO,
'Did any man deem Ibat we were
.,.... itr.i am man deem thai we
nni. . , - . - -
bad foigotten tlio tradlt -4 of Amcr-. Spncourt
111,1 any man in, win ..-
enormous losses
Two simultaneous counter-attucks
by the Germans on a trench captured
yesterday by the French north of
Cumleres were repulsed.
At hill So. 304 and the Vaux re
gion there were Increasing bombard
ments. A French aerial squadron bombard
ed a supply and munitions station
i south of Thiaucourt and a camp near
Iii:iSl.lN' ILKPORT HAYS
FIGHTING WAS HEAVY
con hi lumper with the honor and in
trity of the fnited States?' And in
tho creat voice of enthusiasm which
relation to the rest of world Is deter- would be raised all the world would j i!prin. May 1 (by Wireless to Say
mined by our spiritual relation to j stand once more thrilled to hear flie . vip )The following announcement
America. volcp r the new world asserting tne WKg made today at army headqumr
Ilviiarliis for Dull-. standards of Justice nnd of liberty." jtors:
Ton have come together to be ! Speak to Y omut Women.
The president spoke before fcevei.nj
gr:int freedom in not less than two or I uuu" men ami to accept a peace
not mora than six vears, was defeated, strength of ISO, 000 men, provided the
is to 14H. and tho second, making : b"11"" would accept tho expansion
system of organization In the senate
bill. Fuller this system the regular
army could be Increased in time of
conflict to 220,000 or more. House
conferees tentatively agreed to this
proposition upon which to base
agreements as to detail. The Cham
berlain bill before It was nmended In
operate in the complete dispersal of
the Vllllsta bands still operating In
southern and western t'Mhuahuu anil
Durango.
It was argued tb.it the de facto'
government could not afford nnv
break with the I'nitcd Htates, whose
recognition had given it, stability. Any
open disagreement must result In in
tervention, It was asserted, and , It
was further pointed out that those
persons responsible for such an oc
currence would scarcely be given any
share in the rehabilitation of th
Mexican republic.
No llnril-blp on Mexico.
The American plan for co-operation
need not entail uny particular hard
ships on the de facto government, it
was further pointed out, since Hie
Konn of American occupation could
be limited lo the extremo northern
portion of Mexico, and since with
drawal could be reached at a period
not very fur distant.
Thorn was a marked disposition to
attach some significance to the fact
that Secretary Marker's Instructions
lo Generals Hcott and Funstou re
ferred only lo tho Washington gov
ernment's intention not to agree to
the minimum time four years and th ;
maximum eight, was lost, 193 to" 16!!,
Substiliitc Parses.
Then came the substitution of the
Jones hill. The entire house Insular
committee had agreed to 11 before the
senute hill had passed, and substan
tially the same measure was passed
by the house at the last session of
congress. Without further debate on
other sections of the senute Mil, Mr.
Jones offered his measure us a sub
stitute for the remainder of the sen
at hill and it was udnnted imme
diately, complete agreement, sumo of them expedited They asserted (bat every
Manuel L. Quezon, the resident feur That all disputed points cannot 1 aooiiioimi uny oi mice, ninny legnio
tli senate nlaeed the maximum i an "immediate" withdrawal. 'JIUs
strength uf the regular army at about did not Indicate, It was asserted, any
tsO.OOll men. whereas the house bill
i left It al HO, 000.
Although the conferees are exert
I log every possible cffori to reach a
objection to withdrawal after a reas
onable period.
Mexican officials said today Ihey
were noxious to have the coiit'crcnce
commissioner of the Philippines In be worked out without referring some 'K me disposition oi ine Aineiuao
congress, said he was so greatly dis- point b"'k to the senate and house eolumns increase the danger of out-
Prepared for aft unusual duty which
America may call upon you to per
jojm, but what has moved you to do
Your duty to yoir country.
But what is the foundation of that
'l'ty? what do you conceive America
a be? When you come to the lift
parching analysis we do not owe any
"uty except to those things that we
nelieve n, and the glory of performing
Jlr duty towards America Is that we
elleve In America, and we believe in
aierica because I venture to say It
h entire respect for other peoples
"d "ther governments this govern
ment was established with a special
Purpose Uch as no other government
vr avowed. This government was
stahliKhed in order that Justice and
oerty might belonir to everv man
,m "r institutions could touch,
"d not only that Justice and liberty
a 'lonit to America, but that,
'r as America was concerned, and
Ver '""u'nc involved, they should be
hundred young- women dressed i"
khaki and drawn up In military order.
They entered an encampment today
nt which they will be taught first aid
to the wounded, bandnge making,
telegraphy and other war-time arts.
The enc.impment is being held under
"Western front: The situation gen
erally is unchanged. Neat Dead
Man's hill (Verdun front) violent
fighting continued yesterday.
"German aerial squadrons conduct
ed extensive bombardments of the
enemy's encampment and magazines
west of Verdun.
A French biplane was snot uown
the auspices of the women's section of I in an aerial fight east of Royon. The
OCCUPUIUS Ul i,i iiiiiijimic -nc ........
the Navy league. Secretaries miner
and Daniels and a large group oi
government officials of nrmy and navy
officer were Included In the audience.
The president's speech followed the
formal raising- of the American flag
over the encampment. .
Von IgoPs Ihit Over.
New York. May I. Wolfe von Igel
did not appear in the Pnited Slates
district court today to plead to the
charge of complicity in the alleged
plot to blow up the Welland canal, a
Canadian waterway. The case was
put over until next Monday.
At STIUAXS IMtlVEX BACK
BY Itl SSlAX Ivmi'KK
Berlin. May 1 (by Wireless to 8ay
vjllP,)The Austrian official state
ment today, says:
".North of Mlynov, Austro-Hungar-
ian detachments have been witn
drawn in the face of attacks by su
perior Russian forces from the Itus
sian advanced positions which they
had captured on April :8. The num.
her of prisoners reported yesterday
has increased to more than 200-
appointed over the failure of the sen
ate bill In the house thut he would
not return to congress.
"This ends my work In congress."
he said. "1 am not coming back.
What Is the use" The action of the
house tonight makes the fight for In
dependence harder. I notice that not
a single republican voted for
for further Instruction.
The Day in Congress
.SENATE.
Judbiary committee again failed t
lho 'reach n vole on nomination of Louis
Clarke, amendment. They had it all
figured out In advance,"
Mr. Quezon had advocated the sen
ate bill In an earnest speech during
the afternoon.
Debute on Bill Tame.
Debate on tho bill was unexpected
ly tame. Utile objection was ruised
to the democratic plan to rush the
measure through. General debate
was limited to eight hours by unani
mous consent, mid only seven hours
were used. The other hour was giv
en to discussion of the Clarke amend
ment under the five-minute ru'e. and
shortly after x o'clock tonight, votlnjf
began In the committee of the whole.
Representative Jones' argument for
the senate bill whs thi't the tuna had
coma to redeem their promise of free
dom to the Filipinos and that it was
useless for the United States ever to
Attempt to protect the islands In ease
they were attacked by ft atroiig for-
I). Brandela for the supreme court
Resumed debate on rural credits
bill.
norsE.
Philippine independence bill waa
considered by unanimous consent with
agreement for general debate of eight
hours.
Election committee declared Rep
resentative William J. Cary, republi
can, of Milwaukee, properly seated,
despite contest by William J. Gay
lord, social democrat.
Voted to eliminate Clarke amend
ment to Philippine bill.
Rubsstltuted Jones bill for -senate
Philippine bill und sent the measure
to conference with tho house Con
ferees Instructed not to agree to the
fixing of any definite date for Philip
pine Independence.
Adjourned 11:40 p. m, to 11:00 a.
m. Tuesday.
breaks south of the border
Utile credence was attached, how-
i ever, to reports that General Onrc-
! gon might deride lo end tho confer
! , nee unless some agreement was soon
reached.
IVrslilinr Now Prepared
While matters were ut a standstill
today new reports of a tellable na
ture came indicating that the Ameri
can army Is preparing for at least, a
temporary stay on Mexican soil.
These said that the sixth, Sixteenth
und Seventeenth Infantry regin:rp,ls.
which formerly were at Casus Graii
des and Colotiia Dubbin, now are at
Namlqulpit, General Pershing's base,
and that the Twenty-fourth Infan
try Is guarding the line of communi
cations from Columbus.
The Thirteenth and Eleventh regi
ments of cavalry, and part of the
Tenth and Seventh also were reported
at Xnmiquipa with the Sixth on Its
way to Ibut point,
With this large force, at his com
mand, und with the customary de
fense preparations made, It was In
dicated that General Pembina w-a
ready for any eventuality.
Only a few scattered columns of
lho expeditionary force are reported
south of .N'amlqulpa
Four new aeroplanes, which arrived
today, were being prepared Immedi
ately for service. The new machine
tire high-powered tractor biplanes,
capable of flying at an elevation, It
wns Miiiil, of 13,000 feet nnd at a spoe.it
of 100 miles an hour. They are so
constructed that Ihey cin easily clear
the peaks of the continental divide, It
was pointed out.
An unofficial report reaching bora
today placed Villa, with a small band
of chosen followers, near the Houor
border In the vicinity of Topugo on
the itlo ChlplnaH, and about seventy
five, miles southwest of Guerrero. Th
report, however, was vague and was
! given consideration only us a rumor.'
Two code messages were received
tonight by Major Generals Hcott nnd
Funston from the war department
giving more, detailed Instructions re
garding lhe course lo be taken ut the.
next conference with the Mexican mil
itary offic ials on the question Of with
drawing the American troops. Gen
eral Scott anticipated that the next
meeting with General Obrcgon would
be held tomorrow afternoon.
A Kit ri M N 1 K VS Itl'Xjrf'KT
IS COI.DI.Y KI'X"EIVT:i
Washington, May 1 President Wil
son has not altered his purpose to
keep AmorlcHii troopa in the border
region of Mexico until brigandage haa
como to an end.
After a brief conference at tho
White House today, Secretary Baker
prepared further Instructions , for
Generals Scott and Funston, sought
by the officers as a result of their
conference with General Obregon,
Curranza's war minister. The mes-
sifto went forward tonight. Its con
tents were not revealed hut both Sec
retary Baker said there had been no
change In the administration's pol
icy. It Is believed the American eon
ferees sought additional Instructions
upon the view of the do facto govern
ment thut the American expedition
should be withdrawn at once. As
General Scolt had no power to dis
cuss this matter he presented what
th,, .Mexican war minister had to say
tu Washington.
F.llseo Arreriondo Mexican ftmbas-
Siidor-deslgnute, called on Secretary
Lansing during the day to renew his
argument in favor of the early with
drawn!. He followed closely the line
taken by General Obrcgon In his ex
change of views with Generals Scott
-Mid Funston. He was informed that
the state department would not take,
up any diplomatic discussion on this
subject, us urged by General Carran
a, until after the military conference
at El Pnso had been concluded.
Later Mr. Arredondo Indicated tho
feeling of his government that th
The greut bulk American expedition already had ae-
"K
