1
THE APIZJONA REPUBLICAN
AN INDtrlNDENT PROGRESSIVE JOURNAL
10 PAGES
PHOENIX, ARIZONA, TUESDAY MORNINfl, MAY 2, 1916
10 PAGES
VOL. XXVI, NO. 318
LESSOR VI
CAUSE AMERICA
10 REAWAKEN
President Wilson Says Na
tional Spirit of United
States Has Been Re
awakened Through Les
sons of War In Europe
HOPES TO KEEP
OUT.OF CONFLICT
NOT INTERESTED IN
POLITICAL FORTUNES
OF SELF OR OTHERS
-Col. Theodore Roosevelt
If Worst Comes, World Will
Be Thrilled By Voice of
' New World Asserting
Standard of Justice ami
Libertv
WASHINGTON,, May 1. America
reawakened in national spirit through
lessons of the war in Europe was the
theme of an address by President
Wilson today at the opening of the
National Service School Military Kn
campment for Young Women. In
concluding, the president voiced a
warning that the honor and integ
rity of the United States cannot be
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
NEW YORK, May 1 Colonel The
odore Roosevelt on his return here
tonight from Chicago issued a state
ment expressing gratification with the
reception of his views on "perpared
nra, national duty and Americanism."
in the middle west. Mr. Roosevelt de
clared he is not interested in the po
litical fortunes of himself and others,
and, after outlining tho principles ad
vocated in recent speeches, said:
"It cannot be
said too often that
this is a time of
crisis in 'the na-
tion's career. We
fe iiC ft, down the founda
SSykTVXiW tion and the con
7v i!!SV,n trolling lines of a
' vAViv new era in our Ins- J itician
tory. Everytliing I
can do will be
done to see that the
Col. Roosevelt people, west and
east, --er.iize the facts and act accord
ingly. "By no act of mine, by no word of
mine, has this grave question been
involved in factional politics. In every
stale in whiih the law governs such
matters I have promptly withdrawn
a law. In that statement, I also said
that I was not interested in the polit-'
ical fortunes either of myself or oth
ers, and I have resolutely struck to
that determination. I have not ex
pressed and do not intend to express
myself as being for or against any
man.
"As regards myself I do not believe
that tho delegates ought to nominate
me at Chicago unless they are pre
pared whole heartedly and without re
serve to make the f'ght along the lines
above outlined. I am fighting for cer
tain great and vital principals. Those
who take their stand in such a mat
ter because of factional or personal
prejudice are either lacking in patri
otism or else are blind to the tre
mendous forces at work the world
over. In the midst of a tragedy with
out parallel in the world's history, the
work to be done is r.ot that of the pol-
mt of the patriot.
"For that reason I most earnestly
hope that the delegates who go to
Chicago will nominate some Vian on
whom republicans and progressives
can combine, and who, morevor, can
be heartedly supported by all inde
pendent citizens and particularly by
all independent democrats who are
lo,-al to the nationalism of Andrew
Jaeksm and who are prepared to put
the vital nonor and interest of this
nation above all mere partisan consid
erations. I hope they will choose ;
man upon whom all can unite and who,
if elected, we can be absolutely certain
will put the principles above set forth
into actual effect in the interest of
the countrv."
V DAY IS MASKED BY
RIDT IN PITTSBURG DISTRICT
i
DUBLIN REBELS
SURRENDER AND
CITY NOW DUIET
TROOPS TO STAY IN MEXICO
UNTIL BRIGANDAGE IS ENDED
British Troops and Royal
Irish Constabulary Bring
About Surrender of Reb
els and Citizens of Irish
Capital Breathe Kasier
PRISON KKS TAKEN
TO KX(iLANI)
In Citv of Cork Hopes Art
Entertained Anns Will
Be Handed In Todav In
F.nniscorthy Uncondition
al Surrender Is Made
tampered with. He pravs that the m name iiom an lac.ioo.u sn ukkic.-.
country should not be drawn into ! In a -" message from Trinidad on
war, but declared that if it should j ' ,rc'! 'i ':lst. I requested and insisted
be "in the great voice of national that m' friends in Massachusetts re
enthusiasm which would be raised, I frain from s"ch contest and I would
all the world would stand once more llave invoked the law there as I did
thrilled to hear the voice of the new j in other states K there hadj.een such
world asserting the standards of jus
tice and liberty."
The president expressed confidence
that in time of trouble the great
mass of foreign born citizens of the
United States would be loyal. "I
never had the slightest doubt of what
would happen when America called
upon those of her citizens born in
other countries to come to the sup
port of the flag," he said. "Why,
they will come with cheers, they will
come with a momentum winch will j ' Republican A. P. Leased Wire , ir.gton Square, the starting point, by
mane us realize inai America nas i I'lTTSUVKO. I'a., May 1. Angered way of Madison avenue. The gar
once more been cried awake out of,locause wor'm(.i refused to Join meiit workers later held a mass mect
every sort of distemper and dreamltheir ranks 5000 striking employes, I 'ng preparatory to the calling off of
and distraction, and that any man of the w'estinghouse plants forciblv the strike tomorrow, following the
who dares tamper with the spirit of enlered ,he mills of four big steel lockout put into effect by the man
America will be cast out of the con- com)anieH in Rankin and Braddock 1 ufacturers last week:
fidencej.f a great nation upon the ,.lte )dav aUal.kea- em,,iyes and' The day began with a strike of
in"ltnt ; , leaused property damage amounting engineers mid firemen on tug boats
ine auuress ioiiows: to several hundred dollars.
it is witn unanected pleasure mat
I come to greet you as you have as-
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
The British troops and the royal
Irish constabulary have brought about
the surrender of all the rebel forces
in Dublin and the people of the Irish
capital for the first time in a week
are able to move freely about the
city unemlangered by bullets of rebe
snipers
In the country districts of the island
the rebels also are laying down their
irms and quie is said to prevail in
most of the i laces where disorder
previously had tieen reported to exist
A large numb'T of the 1,000 prisoner
taken In Dublin have been sent to
Kngland.
Events of Importance Are
Believed To Be Impending
President Wilson Has Not
Altered His Purpose to
Keqp American Force In
Border Region Until Or
der Has Been Restored
Republican A. P. Leased Wire From military headquarters came
CoLUMlil'S, N. M., May 1. M ili-J the statement that "there have been
tary authorities at the base camp: no new developments in the field, and
here appeared to believe tonight that ; all operations are at a standstill pend
events of some importance in the ' trig the result of the conferences."
Mexican situation are impending. A A report that a detachment under i region of Mexico until brigandage has
spirit of anticipation seemed to be Colonel James U. Erwin had been en-' come to an end.
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
WASHINGTON, May 1. President
Wilson has not altered his purpose to
keep American troops in the border
manifest over the reservation, al-j gaged by Mexicans was denied.
i After a brief conference at the White
sembled for the interesting things
One rioter was arrested, but hun
dreds of the strikers attacked the po-
voii are mine tn do. T h:,vo H.-.,vB lile wlth Uml an(1 rescued the pris-
felt that there was very much more 1 " a!
inspiration in things that were vol-
and was the most serious that has
and lighters In New York harbor
and adjacent waterways, but by
nightfall, many of the owners had
acceded to the demands for increased
.wages, and the water traffic situa
tion, which was threatened with an
almost complete tie-up was much im-
untarily done than in things that' " ' " nroved
were done under official direction; ""Pes .or an eany settlement oi Uat b,.twt.n ,h
and bv official summons You have the 8trike of "tieet car me" which1 ,."liJl'ons D,twlpn 'he eng.nfers
:;,?unteered1o 'cme totheT wlthou t into effect last midnight tJT ruZ
official suggestion in order to study "as tied up every line in Al- "mfnX8 Vxpe'ted
some things which, while thev are I "eny c',umV Wlth the exception of ent )(.k ,.ll(irprs
characteristic of the sort of comfort ' three interurban. were held out at a A' r,7n Br K.k1n for m fn
and assistance which women have ; inference between Mayor Joseph O. Vw
been accustomed to offer are never- Armstrong, newspaper publishers, of-' c .e ' , J ,,im,"nnB ,no move
th'ess .T7hls ?n.anci TI"J; the Pittsburg ,,,i.way ht large dockm
ttnVd'uTy nat,0nal m'Utml It announced , hat ,he strike
" we of course are ilvhg in the ' Wan at four o'clock this afternoon ?f -'l0'; welr w t" h "a"
.... !-. .-C " ?P.'.are. . ?S ln the 'nnd ves still i ,.,i..n nt n,wi,,i,.(,. ' bt' n Progress for three months.
presence ui conumons wnicn we CP.n- " i had been hpMI...I
not yet assess, because they are un
precedented. The world never wit
nessed such a war as is now con
vulsing almost every part of the
world except this part which we par
ticularly love and would seek to safe
guard; and the very foundations of
the ordinary life of nations have been v"ral strikes in the metropolitan , dlstrlct b()ar(,
msturoeu, so aeepiy disturbed that
no man can predict what the final
Labor Troubles in Gotham
NEW YORK, May 1. May Day,
featured here by a monster parade
i of union workers, also was marked
by the beginning of new labor dis-
The workers re
ceived an eight hour day, time and
a half for overtime, and the aboli
tion of home work system.
The terms of the agreement be
tween the 17r.,0nu coal minurs of
Dublin P.ebels Surrender
LONDON". May 1. -All the rebels in
Dublin have surrendered and those in
the country districts are doing like
wise according to up official state
ment issued this evening.
The statement says;
"All the reb.-ls in Dublin have sur
rendered and tie city is reported
ipiiet and safe. The rebels in the
country districts are surrendering t.)
the nio bile columns.
"There were l,'n'i prisoners ln Dub
lin veterday. of whom 4S!l were sent
to Kngland last night.
"It is rep rted from Queenstown
that hopes we.-e enteilalned that nrms
would be handed in today in the citv
of Cork.
"During the night of April 30-May
1. t lie tebels in Knniscorthy made an
offer to surrender their leaders and
their arms on condition that trie r:inw
diui file be allowed to return to their
iomes They v ere informed that th
nly terms tlv.t could be entertained
were unconoiuon.u surrenoer. i net.-
erms Were -iccepterl by them at fi
o'chx k this morning. It was reported
atrr that the rebels were surrender
ing today on these terms.
"A column composed of soldiers and
royal Irish constabulary captured sev-
ral prt.siners in the neighborhood of
Kerns (county U exford i today. icn
low. Arkh.w. Dunlavin. liagenalstown
r nd New Hiss, and the counties of
Coik, 'Mare. Limerock and Keriy are
llv ouiet. The whole of I lster
is quiet."
though no definite reason was offered. Four new aeroplanes, which arrived; House today, Secretary Baker pre
Soldlem of the garrison were lieing i today, were being prepared immedi- ; pared further instructions for Generals
kept close to the reservation in read-I ately for service. The new machines i Scott and Funston, sought by the of
iness for any move warranted by de-j are high powered tractor biplanes, j ficers as a result of their conference
velopmcnts. Four companies of in- capabl- of flying at an elevation, it, with General Obregon, Carranza's war
fa n try receive I marching orders to- was i-aid, of lS.OaO feet and at a speed j minister. The message went forward
day and it is believed they will get) of 1 1 .0 miles ;n hour. They are so j tonight. Its contents were not re
uii ler way tomorrow. constructed that they can easily clear ! vealed but both Secretary Lansing and
It is known that General J. S. I 0e peaks of the continental divide, it i Secretary Baker said there had been
Pershing, expeditionary commander is! was pointed oat. j no change in the administration's
bciug kept closely ill touch with the! An unofficial report reaching here Policy.
conferemes in HI Paso and Juarez j today placed Villa, with a small band! It is believed the American conferees
and is hiving bis phi. is accordingly, j of chosen followers near the Sonora ! sought additional instructions" upon
A long and what wim said to be an! border in the vicinity of Topago on ; the view of the de facto governmeftt
important message from Kl Paso was; the Kh.chipinas and about seventy-: that the American expedition should
transmitted to him over the army five miles southwest of Guerrero. The be withdrawn at once. As General
wireless today, but no inkling of its 1 report, howevr, was vague and was 1 Scott had no power to discuss -his
contents was given out here. given consideration only as a rumor, i matter ne presented wnat tne iUexi
can war minister had to say to Wash
ington. Kliseo Arredondo, Mexican ambassa
dor-designate, called on Secretary
Lansing during the day to renew his
argument in favor of the early with-
. drawal. He followed closely the line
taken by General Obregon in his ex
change of views with Generals Scott
and Funston. He was informed that
the state department would not take
up any diplomatic discussion on this
subject, as urged by General Carrauza,
; until after the military conference at
El Paso had been concluded.
Later Mr. Arredondo indicated Lie
j feeling of his government that the
' American vnoHition f.lrou.K- hiH
. iCA., ...... 0,m..lishd j.s ,
PHILIPPINE
lEPtlEit j
INDEFINITE!
i
in IKES
I
I NO HINT ON
ad-
BORDER MS
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
IVilllWToV 1 Tiia
... 1 . I ... , ' ' ." , . ' . complished its real purpose the
ministrations fight for the seua to ; from U ashmgton that Secretary Baker eliminalion )f vila and his adherents
.'hillppine bill with .ts ( lark amend- had instructed General Scott and Gen- and that ,onf?er occupation ot Mt.xj.
ment auinori.uig inoepeiiueii. im ie.-.i -o mhn .in.n- ... imhhi m um-
can territory by American troops was
.ue isu.iios vMuiin iou. ...... v serving only to undermine the control
in the house tonight. After v.,U ; reached at their conference here must : (f Z goyZnt or ul
13 to it,;, to striKe nut me v lai we "' , Keneral situation in Mexico
amendment, the house by a vote of withdrawal was received with gravity, The ambassadr nrtp(1 nOT.
1 to 71 passed as a substitute for J uarra t omghl. ' instructions from his -nwrnmon, in
lienerai tioreiron reiuseu anv com- " "
settlement will be. And if this war
has done nothing else, it has at least
done this: It has made America
aware of dangers which most of us
had deemed unreal, and has made us
aware that the danger of our own
time is nothing less than the unset
tlement of the foundations of civ
ilization. "Civilization does not rest upon
war. It rests uMn peace. It rests
upon those things which men achieve
by cooperation and mutual interest in
one another. It does not flourish in
the soil of hostility and antagonism,
and a world war is a war in the
presence of which civilization holds
Its breath and wonders if it will
itself survive. As we see these great
issues joined, we on this side of the
water are done this great service. We
are reminded of our spiritual relation
not only to this great struggle, but
particularly to thi; great natio o!
which we constitute parts, and our
orders, as well as the settlement of thP anthril(lite fields and the oper
ators were announced. tne trl
district u.M.i.ei uoaru representing ine miners
The naraders r.nrrv ine- banner. n,l . declared ltR npproval of the agree
placards passed up Fifth avenue for'"1""1 and U e!'"1'' the miners
several miles and returned to Wash
I 1
(Col. tinned on Paife Seven)
COMPULSION IS COMING WITH
END OF VDUHTARY ENLISTMENT
Republican A. P. Leased Wire General Townshend in Mesopotamia
LONDON", May 1. The next few are likely to be the subjects of harsh
(Continued on Page Two)
days session of parliament it is ex
pected, will be as interesting as any
since the war began. The govern
ment must attempt to pass legislation
for recruiting, which probably will
take the form of compulsion for all
with an interval for further volun
tary enlistment.
The rebellion in Ireland and the
Impossible task imposed upon Major
criticism. General Townshend's sur
render at Kut-Kl-Amara is the bit
terest blow to British pride since the
death of Gordon At Khartoum. But
the general absorption of Irish affairs
has prevented the tragic episode from
filling the public mind as it other
wise would.
A majority of the newspapers hold
the government responsible for the
Irish outbreak, while the opposition
attributes to civilian mismanagement
the disaster to the army at Kut-Kl-Amara.
Others contend that the ex
pedition was justified by its work in
holding a large Turkish army around
Bagdad during the winter, which oth
erwise might have participated in an
attack on Kgypt. They also consider
Republican A. P. Leased Wire .permit a consultation between Mr. I the position of the Turks dangerous
Fay Permitted to Question
An Unfriendly Witness
NEW YORK, May 1. Lieutenant
Robert Fay, of the German army, on
trial here will with two others
charged with conspiracy to blow up
vessels laden with munitions for the
entente allies, today was extended the
Unger and the prisoner. Unger ex- because or the possibility ot meir
plained later that Fay had neglected ! being caught between the Russians
to tell him many things and for that from the north and Persia and Lieut,
reason, he said, it might be best to General George Gorringe's relieving
grant Fay's request. force which is far from a negligible
"Although I have never heard of . factor.
such a nroceedlntr." said Judee Howe. I In ordinary times, either Premier
privilege by Judge Howe of cross ex- "in view of tne fact that Fav Is alAsqulth's withdrawal of the recruit-
umlnlng an unfriendly witness. He foreigner and that his counsel con- ; l"K bill last week in the face of a
asserted that his attorney was not Lents, it shall oermit the nrixnner to hostile house; Augustine Bin-ell's
properly conducting a detail of the
case.
Edward Brecker, a reporter em
ployed by the New York World, was
on the witness stand when Fay
sprang to his feet and asked to con
duct the cross-examination.
examine the witness within certain management of Irish affairs, or the
bounds." loss of General Townshend s division
Fay then obtained affirmative an- i probably would create an immediate
swer from the witness to a series of crisis, possibly resulting in a vote of
questions directed to sl.w that he want of confidence in the govern
discussed war munitions with Becker, ment. But the fact that the present
Judge Howe, however, interrupted cabinet includes the leaders of three
Fay and refused to permit further Parties and that no alternative which
: questioning when the nrisoner said ha" been suggested commands any
Dublin Becoming Normal
Dl'HI.lN. May 1. (Via London) A
return to norrr.:il conditions is neing
iccomplished giadually in Dublin, nri-1
;t tiov is possible to give the nrst
complete account of the happenings
of the last week. Hitherto, news or
the Dublin uprising has reached th
outside world in fragmentary form
ow ing to the intermit ion of tele
graphic communication the conflict
ing reports ar.d the frequent conflict
,,r uin.ements. but the collapse of
the rebellion has removed these con
ditions in great part, and the story of
the uprising, from the time it began
last Monday, may now be given in
proper sequence in the light of infor
mation obtained from authoritative
sources.
What occurred was as follows:
Monday: The first move was
dash by members of the Sinn Fein
into the general postoffice. Manv of
these men were in the uniform of the
Irish volunteers, a body formed at the
time men of I'lster organized against
granting homo rule its object being
to resist any attempt by Ulster to
oppose the home rule law.
Soon afterward, firing opened
the neighboring streets, for the rebels
immediately shot down any man in
khaki. Severil officers and men of
the regular army thus fell victims in
the first few minutes of the revolt
Tlie authorities, unprepared at first
to deal with the uprising ordered the
police and soldiers to retreat to their
ouarters none of them being armed.
In the meantime the rebels, according
to their pre-arranged plan, seized
other points in the city.
The authorities were powerless, with
the troops at their disposal to dis
lodge or attempt to comoat the rebels,
who, however, made a great mistake,
which eventually cost them dearly.
They either forgot to ceize the tele
phone exchange or did not think it
woith llieir attention. Thus, the au
thorities vver able to fiend a call to
the military officers at. camp Curragh,
some 5fi miles away. From this point
a considerable body of troops was im
mediately dispatched.
Tuesday: The situation in the
morning was virtually unchanged ex
cept that the rebels apparently had
Increased in numbers and spread in
mall parties about the city. Sniping
entire measure tne Jones tun, - .... . renew)n his reQuest f(.r rpniv
iding for a greater measure f. -VmK ---t 1,-.
to
ment's at his next conference with the eneral Carranza's note suggesting
n- . i i,. j ments at ins next conierence wiin me on --."n
elf government in the house, and . ... that the time had come tn tnko nr. ti
. ,i.i .inrm- ti,. i Americans. This, it was expected to- ulal ule ume nau come 10 lal5e UP the
arrying a preamble declaring the in- , ' question of withdrawal He had heinl
. . .. . .t... . .,.,. 1 night, will take place tomorrow, al- ,'urau"" 11 "imurawai. tie naa neara
ention of tlie I lilted States to gint .,;,., ! nothing directly or indirectly from the
though it was thought possible that it i ""l,M" uiiecuy or inuirectiy irom tne
; might be delayed until after the regu- , conierence at tui t'aso and said his ef-
Iar Tuesday cabinet meeting at Wash- ions w un tne state department were
ington. Among other Mexican officials . independent ot General Obregon s dis-
, gloom was openly expressed. It was cussion with General Scott.
pointed out that General Obregon had t be dispatch sent to General Scott
come to the border chiefly to persuade tonight was supplemental to one sent
independence, ultimately but without
fixing a date.
Over the heated protest of admin-
stration leadets, the house, by a vote
f J!3 to 1T.4 instructed its conferees
not to agree to any declaration set
ting a definite time for granting the ' f. , s d Funston that the yesterday. It was prepared bv Secre-
islands their independence. Speaker imprira evueditionarv forces should tary Baker after a brief conference
'lark named representatives Jones of , he wilh(iruwn at once. Secretary with the president and later talks with
Virginia and Garret of Tennessee, iter's instructions to the American Secretary Lansing and Counselor Polk
conferees were regarded as completely of the state department,
blocking the hopes of the Mexican min- Although the message is a brief one,
ister of war. ; it was impossible to get it into code
Speculation in El Paso tonight dealt , until late in the day, preventing a
with the report that General Obregon continuance of the border conference
will make to the proposals Generals before tomorrow.
Scott and Funston will present at the The reports of the conference aie
next conference. , signed jointly by Generals Scott and
In seme quarters it was pointed out j Funston. So far as is known, thev
that the only course he could take have contained no recommendations
from the two officers, merely stati.ig
I what had been said and asking for
such information as they thought
necessary in order to pursue discus
sions. Lacking explicit instructions.
democrats and Towner of Iowa,
ublican as conferees.
Now the bill goes to conference be
tween tlie two houses, with the op
ponents of the Clark amendment sat
isfied that it is dead at least for this
session of congress.
The bouse remained in session until
late tonight to take the final vote.
Thirty democrats joined the solid re-
(Continued on Page Two)
(Continued on Tage Two)
STILL SEEK VILLA'S BODY
behind, indicate efforts to cure his
it is doubtful that General Scott would
attempt to make any reply to General
Obregon 's request for the withdrawal
wounds. Believe he is dead and am of the troops. There is little doubt thai
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
Nl-.tt lOKK, .May i.-ine lollow-" ,,,,. 1 the additional instructions outline ;ln
ing telegram dated at Cusiluiiriachic, ,..,, r,mn ., ,,,,.. nf (-Jen- i administration's view in this regard so
Mexico and signed by Colonel Carlos j pru Oirranz;L is the officer who first c'ear'y that General Obregon will have
Carrauza, was received here today by I reported that he had found the body ! " "ouois as 10 wnai oenerai tarran a.
Juan T. .Bums, consul general for 'of Villa of San Francisco Borja. i W1" be lold when a reply to his re.'.t
the de facto government of Mexico: ' about five miles south of Cusihuira- ls maue.
Have found in mountains near chic. Two weeks airo last Sundav he m some quarters in touch with Mex
here cave w here Villa was hiding. ! was reported to be bringing the body ! ican developments, it was said that the
Clothing and medical supplies left i to Chihuahua.
HUBLII VIGILANCE OE
TRQDPS ALONG THE BORDER
Republican A. P. Leased Wire j LAREDO, Tex., May 1 Six com
DOUGLAS. Ariz.. May 1. Increased ranips of t,le Ni,lth lTnited states in"
president was handling the situation
personally and had no question for de
cision to lay before his cabinet tomor
row. The flat statements of all ad
ministration officials that there had
been no change of policy bore out tiiis
was stated officially that no for-
I mal demand for withdrawal of the
; troops had been made by any repre
sentative of the de facto government.
State department advices today sa. 1
arrangements had been made to
transport American refugees at Mati
zanillo to the United States. The
steamer Newport will sail from Man-
lertness on the part of the American
(Continued on Page Seven)
,',,v,.lr,', veer. M.lenl ordered I2""1"0 Ma' Prohab'y for San ISO,
soldiers stationed here was not les- ; to ron,ai at" their post here today. 1 Cal' At score or more o Americans
sened today and has resulted in an after having prepared to leave for have b awaiting transportation
increise of the nubile nervousness target practice near by. A wagon. n',n ia 5 " . ...
mr ase of the pul lu m rvonsness. f afler M a 8hort. Rorts from Piedras Negras sa.d a
On both siues of the border the situa- .as rec,.llIe(, The is new issue of Mexican currency would
Lion is admitted to be growing more ; unknown here.
tense with every day of uncertainty.
There has been a revival of the !
police regulation against crowds gath- i
ering on the street, or the holding of
street meetings of any kind vhich
might result in friction between Mex
icans and Americans. , Tonight for
the first time in many weeks, the pro
vost guard on duty in the main part
of Douglas appeared armed with
Hope For An Agreement On
Army Reorganization Bill
"My counsel," he said, "cannot de
fend me because he ls not conversant ' questioning when the nrisoner Midi has been suggested commands any occurred among soldiers and civilians.
with many details of the case." I he was seeking to show that his ' strong support will serve to keep the N"r effort was undertaken on this
Fay's lawyer, former Assistant Dis- j many statements were given out for . government going. Mr. Birrell's res-! day to turn the rebels out of their
trlct Attorney Unger appeared i what . he described as a "set pur-! ignation, however, would cause no J strongholds, as the force of military
munneu, unu me court adjourned to I pose. surprise.
Republican A. P. Leased Wire '
WASHINGTON, May 1. Hope for
rifles, in addition to the pistols and I " agreement in conference on the
clubs they usually carry. The border army reorganization bill seemed
patrol is reported to have been brighter tonight after an all dav ses
doubled tonight. This is merely a j si(m f th(. conference committee in
precautionary measure. ! which a basis for negotiation of de-
General P. Eliah Calles, military '; fenses between the senate and house
governor of Sonora, denied today on the regular army was reached.
thrmip-h CVinttlll True fl T nla.'iur Vinf ' c . . . i
,...:i,i n ,,,i. . r ..! i.w..., senate conierees agreed to yield on
prevailed and numbers of casualties I h k9li ,. r,-i pn f,, u, ,, .
...,, 0,.i,i,0 i,.ni I nau 8""e lo laH0 for a"y oti,Pi the proposed standing army of 250,-
purpose man to report to Geneal Out) men and to accept a peace
Alvaro Obregon on the progress of strength of 180,000 men, provided the
the Yi.qui Indians compaign in So- house would accept the expansion
nora, and financial matters in the; system of organization in- the senate
s,a!e- bill. Under this system the regular
(Continued on Page Seven)
army could be increased in time of
conflict to 220,000 or more. House
conferees tentatively agreed to this
proposition upon which to base
agreements as to detail. The Cham
berlain bill before it was amended in
the senate placed the maximum
strength of the regular army at
about 180,000 men, whereas the house
bill let It al 140,000.
Although the conferees are exert
ing every possible effort to reach a
complete agreement some of hen
fear that all disputed points cannot
be worked out without referring some
points back to the senate and house
for further instructions.
