WEATHER
MARKE IS
NffW YORK CITV
Average price of cop
per for week ending
April 26, 28.42.
a 4
63
ARIZONA G:neraly
fair.
Associated Press Special Leased Wire Service.
VOL. 18, NO. 290.
BISBEE, ARIZONA, TUESDAY MORNING, MAY 2, 1916.
PRICE FIVE CENTS
8
& pa
FREEDOM OF
PHILIPPINES
DENIED BY
Defeat In House Of Bill Sane
tioned By President Marks
First Republican Victory In
Year
VOTE "ULTIMATELY"
TO LIBERATE ISLANDS
Clarke Measure Providing In
dependence In 1920, Is
Downed 213 To 165. Dem
ocrats Aid Downfall
(By Review leased Wire.)
WASHINGTON. May 1. The ad
ministration's fight for the Senate
Philippine bill wtih its Clarke amend
ment authorizing independence for the
islands within four years, was lost in
the House tonight.
After voting 213 to 165 to strike out
the Clarke Amendment, the House by
a vote of 251 to 17 passed as a substi
tute for the entire measure the Jones
bill, providing for a greater measure
o self government in the House and
rarrvftag a rre-"ble declaring the in
tention of the United States to grant
independence ultimately but without
fixing a date. 1
Over the heated protest of jAdmin
istration leaders, the house b a vote
of 203 to 1754. instructed its confer
ees nit to sire to any declaration
setting a definite time for granting
theislands their independence. Speak
er Clark named Representatives Jones
of Virginia and Garrett of Tennessee.
Perrocrats, and Towner of Iowa, Re
pt'Miran. as conferees.
Now the bill oes pt conference be
tween the two houses, with the Clark
amendment, and is settled at least for
this session of Congress. The House
rerrained in session until late tonight
to take a final vote. Thirty democrats
toir-ed the republican minority 'in de
fex'ing the Clark amendment, which
r-pd rHn eive nunnualified endorse
ment by Prsidept Wilson. It was thl
first "narked victory of the year over
any part of the President's legislative
program, ppd the Renublicans wero,
noisily jubilant over It. Af:er each
victorious vote th"v applauded for
several minutes and bv way of mock
1n rtHe (IfnoTB's emitted repeatedly
the famous "Rebel yell" of the ma
jority. PeTOcra's accepted their de
f"!t in silence.
The nen-oorats who voted against
the Clarke amendment were:
Allen. Ohio: P.eakes, Mich.; Pruck
p"r. Carev. Conway. Dale. Pooling,
Priscoll. Farley, Fitzgerald. Flvnn.
Cr'fn. Hu'fcert. Mnher, Patten. Rior
den and Smith. New York: Cody. Md.;
Fae?n. Hamill. an'd Hart. New Jersey;
Ks'opinal, Louisiana; Gallagher, Mc
Anrewa and McOorrott. Illinois: Gal
livin. OIney. Phelan and Tague.
Massachusetts, and O'Shaughnessy, of
Rhode Island.
The first vote taken after eight
hours in conimittee-of-the-whole
showed 151 to 131 votes against the
Repute rrovsi'on. Chairman Jones of
te Ins"!ar Affairs committee, then at
tempted to p-wure the adoption of
a substitute, fixing the time limit.
They were quickly voted down. The
first, to grant freedom in not less than
two or not more than six years, was
defeated 186 to 146 and the second
making the minimum time four year,
and the maximum eight was lost 191
to 161. Then came the substitute of
the Jones Bill. The entire House In
sular committee had agreed to it be
fore the bill had passed and substan
tially the same measure was provid
ed by the House at the last session of
Congress. Without further debate on
other sectionts of the Senate, Mr.
Jones offered his amendment as a
substitute or the remainder of the
Senate bill .and it was adopted imme
diately. Manuel Quezon the resident com
missioner of the Philippines .in Con
gress, said lie was so greatly disap
pointed over the failure of the Senate
bill in the House that he would not
return to Congress.
"This ends my work in Congress,"
;he said. "I am not coming back.
What is th euseT The action of the
House tonight makes the fight for in
dependence harder. I notice that not
a single Republican voted for the
Clark amendment. They had it all
figured out in adavnee."
Mr. Quezon had advocated the bill
earnestly.
NEW CASES AGAINST
VON IGEL EXPECTED.
NEW YORK. tMay 1 Superseding
indictments in the alleged Germanic
p'ot to destroy th Wr Hand Canal inn
Caada will be returned Wednesday
when the special federal grand jury
investigating the case will reconvene,
it was announced here tonight at the
office of the United States attorney.
CONGRESS
GERMANY COMPLYING
P.ERLIX .May . 1 Future
Cerman-Ajiieriuan relations
ran .probably- be looked for
ward, to" with less apprehen
sion.. -"
The Associated Press is per
mitted to make this statement
although dispatches bearing
on the nature ct the German
reply to the American note re
specting submarine warfare
fare have been stopped by the
rensorsihio.
The deliberations at German
headquarters .iave been con
cluded and Ambassador Gerard
will leave this evening for Ber
lin, arriving here Tuesday af
ternoon. . The German reply is expect
ed with little delay, but it is
considered undesirable that
preliminary indications of the
nature of the note should be
published abroad.
REVOLT IS
WAIIG, REBELS
All Insurectionists In Dublin
Give Up; Country Sections
Following; All Ulster Re
ported Quiet
(By Review Leased Wire.)
LONDON .May 1. All the rebels in
Dublin have surrendered and (hose in
the country are doinng likewise, ac-1
cordin gto an official statement issued
this evening. The statement says:
A'l the rebels in Dublin have sur
rendered and the city is reported
quiet. The rebels in the country dis
tricts are surrendering to the mo rile
columns.
"There were 1,000 prisoners in Dub
lin yesterday, of whom 489 were sent
to England last night.
"It is reported from Queenstown
that hopes were entertained that amis
would be banded in today in the city
of Cork.
"During the night of April 30-May 1.
the rebels in Ennisscout made an offer
to surrender their leaders and their
arms on condition that the rank and
file be allowed to return to their
homes. They were informed that the
only terms that could be entertained
were unconditional surrender. These
ter-vs were accepted by them at six
o'clock this morning. It was report
ed late rthat the rebels were surren
dering today on these terms.
A column composed of soldiers and
Royal Irish constabulary captured sev
eral prisoners in County Wexford to
day. "Wicklow. Arklow .Dunlavin, Bagen
alstown and New Ross and the coun
ties of Cork, Clare, Limerick and Ker
ry rre generally quiet. The whole of
Ulster is quiet."
VIOLENCE ATTENDS
STRIKE; THOUSANDS
PARADE STREETS
fBv Review Leased Wire.)
PITTSBURG. Ta., May 1. Angered
because workmen refused to joinj
their ranks, 5,000 striking employes i
of the Westingl.'juse plants forcibly)
entered the mills of four big steel
companies in Rankin and Braddockj
late today, attacked employes and,
caused property damage amounting to!
several hundred dollars.
One rioter was arrested, but hun
dreds of strikers attacked the police
with sfjnes and rescued the prison
er. The rioting lasted three hours and
was the most serious that bag oc
curred since the strike began.
NEW YORK. May 1. May Day,
featured here by a monster parade of
union workers, also was marked by
the beginning of new labor disorders
as well as the settlement of several
strikes in the meti'jpolitan district.
The paraders, carrying banners and
placecards. passed up fifth avenue for
several miles and returned to Wash
ington Square, the startinr point, by
way of Madison Avenue. Te garment
workers later held a mass meeting
prenaratory to the calling off of the
strike tomorrow. Pillowing the lock
out put into effect by the manufac
turers last week.
The day began with a strike of en
gineers and firemen on tugboats and
lighters In New York harbor and ad
jacent watr wavs but by night-fall
many of the owners had acceded to
the demands for advances in wages
and a mplete tie no was avoided.
About a thousand dock laborers
went on strike in Brooklyn for an in
crease In wages hampering the move
ment of freight by one large docking
concern.
It was announced that the strike )f
2.000 jewelry workers, which had
been in progress for three months,
had been settled. The workers re
ceived an eirht hour dsv. tinr and a
a!f for overtime and the abolition of
home work svstem.
The tenrn ' the agreement be
tween the 175.000 coal miners of the
(Concluded on Tage Seven)
Woe to Any Man Tampering With America;
Foreign-Born
COL ROOSEVELT
TOSSES II
HID Ti
Wants Republican, Progress-
ive Support Only If They
. L " D
. Approve Speeches Un rre-
paredneSS, Says T. R.
inr'tTTC ETD DnTMlDI V
HGHli i hUK FKiNLUt, ,
NOT FOR FACTION
Nation Faces Crisis, Says Ted-
, J J XU r IT
dy, Adding Me IS Doing Ut-
most To Make People Real-
ize it
(By Review Leased Wire)
NEW YORK. May 1. ( V1. Roose
velt, on his return tonight- from Chi
cago, issued a statement explaining
bis views on preparedness, national
defense and Americanism in middle
west. Mr. Roosevelt declared h" W
not interested in the political fortunes nS- nup d- '
of himself and others and, alter out-:conlP V !tn cheers, they will come with
lining the priciples adVjcaied in re- momentum which will make us real
cent speeches, said: 'izo ,h;lt America has once more been
"It cannot be said too olten thatlcifd awake out of every .sort of dis
this is a time of crisis in the nation's temper and dream and distraction,
career. We. are now laying down the and ;hat any man who dares tamper
foundation and the lines of tho new with the spirit of America will be
era of our history. Everything I can cast out of the confidence of a great
u'j will be done to see that the peo-i nation upon the instant."
pie, west and east, realize that fact! His address follows: . v
and act accordingly. i "It is with unaffected pleasure I come
"By no act of mine, by no word of, to greet you as you have assembled
mine, has this grave question been f-)r the things you are going to do. I
made the occasion of factional plays. : have already felt there was much
In every state in which it is the law 'more inspiration in things that were
governing such matters, I have , voluntarily done than in things that
promptly withdrawn my name from all ' were don(, undpr ,(, direction d
faet.'jnel struggles. In a cable mea
. t.::.i...i i. n i..1"J "-
aBr iruu. i,...mau u.. ,uc.. unteprpd t0 COIm? tosetlier without Offl-
I requested and insisted that nlV;cjCa suRe.'tion in order to study
friends in Massachusetts refrain from , h h are rharac-
such and I would have invoked the , ' . ' . - ,
law there as I did in other states if,?r snc of 'hPh80 of c0" hi S
there had been such a law. I al80 Blrtnci. which women have been ac-
said that I was not interested in the l?? to offcr T.T ln
nnlittral fortune ithpr nf n.vself nr
others, "and I have resolutely stuck l-
pressed and do not intend to express 'Presence oi conumons wu.cn e cn
inyself as being for or against anyrot 'f assess because they are un
nia I precedent ed. The world never dream-
"As regards myself I do not be-H of sucn war as is now non-ctvil-lieve
that the delegates ought to , izinS n,ost r? Part of the world
nominate me at Chican'j unless they iCeDt thl8 Pnr' which we particularly
are prepared wholeheartedly and with- love End wou,d sepk ,0 safeguard: the
out reserve to make the fight along 'vpry foundations of the ordinary life
the lines outlined. ; of nations have been disturbed, so
"I am fighting for certain great ; deeply that no imn can predict what
and vital principles. Those who take . O'e final settlement' will be. And if
their stand in such a matter because ;tbis war has done nothing else, it'has
of factional or personal prejudice are'"1 lpast done this: It has made
either lacking in patriotism 'jr else : America aware of dangers which most
are blind to the tremendous forces! of us had deemed unreal, and has
at work the world over. Imade us aware that the danger of our
"For that reason I most earnestly !'ini Is nothing less than the unsettle
hope that the delegates who go tornent of the foundations of civiliza
Chicago will name some man on lion.
whom Republicans and Progressives' "Civilization does not rest upon war.
can combine, and who, moreover, can! I' rests upon peace. It rests upon
be heartily suppjried by all inde-i those things which- men achieve by
pendent citizens and particularly a" co-operation and mutual interest in
independent Democrats who are loyal one another. It does not flourish in
to the principles of Jackson and the the soM of hostility and antagonism,
vital Jionor and interest of, this nation and a world war Is a war in the pres
above all mere partisan consider- j ence of which civilization holds its
tions. I I'jpe they will choose a man, breath and wonders if it will survive,
upon whose all can unite and who, if As we see these great Issues joined,
elected, we can be absolutely certain '. we on this side -of the water are do
will put the principles into effect ining this great service: We are re
the government of the country." j minded or our spiritual relation not
i only to this great struggle, but parti
EASTER, GRUESOME
OH RUSSIAN FRONT
OOldierS Chant Midnight oer- perhaps our divided allegiance in re
vice, In Rain And Gloom I snPct to our relations to each other.
' n America had been brought to such a
AS Vuns DOOm r j point of diversification of interest, of
, 'occupation, of objects sought, that
(By Review Leased Wiret i 9,e was In danger of losing the cons
AT THK FRONT WITH THE RI'3 j ciousness of her singleness adn solid
SIAN ARMY .April 23. (By coutrier ; arity. There were men pulling at
to Petrograd and via l-xvidon May 1 Cross purposes In regard to their
Under a small tent, dimly lighted by i private interests and their public en
candles a mile from the firing lineideavors in this country long before
a Russian priest conducted midnight ! the war came to remind us that we
Easter service to the accompaniment : were a single nation, with a single
of occasional cannon shotts and the 'duty and a single idea: and the first
intertnitten glare of Austrian rockets, thing that has happened to us is that
It rained, and solemn soldier- we have all been pulled together by
stood with bowed heads before the a great tug at the heart in respect
improvised alter were drenched. j to our individual interests. Wr have
About the priest's nt ck was sus-1 all been reminded with an emphasis
pended a crucifix, upon a St. George
ribhon swarded for ervice on the
battlefield. Now and then the chant
ed words in the service were partTy
drowned by splashing .groaning guns
and ammunition carts lumbering I
past through the heavy mud. but even '
the teamsters seemed impressed bv j
the solemnity of the hour and urged
their struggling beasts In subdued
tones . ,
Six rough soldiers compotsed the
choir which assisted in "e crv'-
All the evening the Austrian rockets,
(Continued on Tage Four)
Loyal to U.
Naturalized Americans Will'
Come Cheering To Support
Of Flag If Test Comes, De-!
dares President j
U.S. WILL THRILL j
; WORLD IF WAR COMES '
i A. I - t m: 1 C ;. A I
erica Would Assert Its
! Whole ' Strength For Jus-
tice And Liberty
I (By Review Leased Wire.)
. WASHINGTON, May 1. America
reawal:ened in national spirit thru
lTms ,he wa,rJn Eur!,w',,be.
iTienie cf an address by President
vviu-on today at the opening or the
iret'onal service military encampment
for young women. Mr. Wilson voiced
;n warning that the honor and inieg-
rity of tho Un.., 8mt iannot be
jtairpercd wilh. He prayed that tho
'country sliou'd not be drawn into war.
but dodared that ir it should ail the
,WOI'd would stand once more thrilled
to hear the voice if the new world
asserting the siammrds of justice and
; liberty.
The president expressed confidence
that in time of trouble the great mass
iof foreign born citizens of the United
States would be loyal. "I never had
had the slightest doubt of what hap
pen when America called upon
ihose of her citizens born in other
cctintr.'es to come to the support of
ty official summons.' You have vol-
u,n a- . ....u a
rest national duty.
i "Ve. of course, are living in the
cularly to this great nation of which
;we constitute a oart, and our spirit
ual relation to the rest of the world
' "We have heard a great deal about
j divided allegiance in this country, but
j before we discuss dividend allegiance
in its political aspect we flight to let
for which I, for one, thank Cd that
we are first of all Americans, and
only after that at liberty to seek our
individual interest.. And those of our
(Continued on Page Two.)
4141
APRIL AVERAGE
The average price of copper
for the month ending April AO.
according to the Engiueering
and Mining Journal of New
York, was 27.8S cents.
S.9 Says Wilson:
u. s. wm m
BORDER GET
;
Peishing's Force Sleep With
Guns At Columbus, Await-1
ing Failure Of Conference
At Juarez
VILLA IS RUMORED
NEAR SONORA BORDER i
Bandit Is Reported 75 Miles
Southwest Of Guerrero
With Men. New Planes
Arrive For U. S.
(By Review Leased Wlre.
LAREDO. Tex.. May 1 Six com
panies o ftlie Ninth Infantry and
"two troops of the Fourteenth Cav
alry were suddenly ordered to re
main at their post here to day,
after having prepared to leave for
target practice nearby. A wagon
train of supplies, after going a
short distance, was recalled. The
reason is unknown here .:
Columbus. N.M. May 1- Military
authorities at the base camp here ap
peared to believe tonight that events
in the Mexican situation are impend
ing. A spirit of antagonism seemed
to reign over the reservation although
no definite reasons were given. Sol
diers were being kept close to tho
reservation in readiness for any move
'warranted by developments. Four
companies of infantry received march
ing orders today and it Is expected
that they will get under way tomor
row. It is known that General Pershing.
'expeditionary commander is being
kept closely informed with the confer
ence at EI Paso and is laying his plans
accordingly. A long and what was
held to be an important message
from EI Paso was transmitted to him
over the army wir-less today, but no
indications of its contents was -given
out here.
From military headquarters came
the statement that "there have been
no new developments in the field and
all operations are at a standstill pend
ing the result of the conferences."
A report that a detachment under
Col. Jas. B. Erwin had been engaged
by Mexicans was denied.
Four new aeroplanes, which arrived
today, were being prepared immediate -
READY FOR
era
ly for service. The new machines an'D worKe oui huujui ratii reierrin
high powered tractor bi planes, capa-
ble of flying at an elevation, it was
said, of 13.000 feet and at a spee of!
100 miles an hour. They are so con-
structed that they can easily clear the j
An unofficial report reaching here I
fotdav Dlaced Villa with a mll hand I
of chosen followers near the Sonora
border in the vicinity of Topago, on
the Rio Chipinas. and about 75 miles
southwest of Guerrero. The report,
however was vague and was given
consideration only as a rumor.
STILL HUNT VILLA'S BONES.
NKW YORK. May 1. Thle follow
ing telegram dated at Cusihuiriachic,
Mexic-and signed by Col. Carlos Car
ranza was received here today by
Juan T. Burns, consul general for the
defpeto government of Mexico.
"Have found in mountains near ner
cave where Vi'la was hiding. Cloth-'are likely to be the subjects for harsh
ing and medical supplies left behind I criticism. General Townsend's sur
indicate efforts to, cure his wounds. ; render at Kut-el-Amara is the bitter
Believe he Is dad and am trtyiug to't blow to British pride since the
locate his body." I death of Gorden at Kartoum. But the
Carlos Carranza. a ntenhew of Gen- general absorpttion of Irish affairs has
eral Carranza is the officer who first
reported that he had found the body
of Villa at San Franciscot Borju. about
five miles south of Cusihuiachic. Two!
weeks aco be was renorted to h'
bringing the body to Chihuahua.
SENATOR DEPLORES
CHANCE IN U. S. EMPLOY.
WASHINGTON. May l.--With a
protest against the creation of new!
bureaus to attract young people to the
service, wheie he said many able men I
nan resigneu inemseives to a tircary
existence instead jf winning success' ' . . - ? ,h
in Independent effort. Senator Smoot "7'" ,h," ""f " . f.r.o:" .VT
vainly urged the Senate todav to n1 P"r!i "nd .,i,nr, t"f"T i. i t
amend the Hollis Rural credit bill so:(, orrin?e "'If"" r!w' wh,t"b
as to reduce the members of ,Ue from a negligible factor
proposed farm loan board fix.ni five) ,n orl.nary times, either Premier
to three 'Asiimths withdrawal o fthe recruiting
He was more successful with anoth-bil! we,k in ,ne ,'nrpPf a h08,ile
er amendment to reduce the salarlesp0U!,p: Augustine I.irrell s manage
of the members of the board from ""'n' of lj",sh -fairs, or the loss of
$10,000 to $7,500. SittJn? as a i'-m- r''n-ral Townsend division ctobably
mittee of the whole. tb Seuate adopt- would create an Imn.diate crisis, pos
ed the latter proposaf bv a vote of 26ribly resulting in a vote of want of
to Senators Beckham and Kern k"nfjdence in the government. But the
joined G;e Republicans in support ing
i, I
ALERT i ,
iorcLx X
!
oov
alertness on inv
Amerh-uii soldiers station
here was noticeable today and
hus resulted in an increase of
the public nervousness.
On both sides of the border
the situation is admitted to be
growing more tense with every
day of uncertainty.
There hus been a revival of
the police regulations against
gathering en th street, or of
folding of street meetings of
any kind which might result in
friction between Mexicans and
Americans.
Tonight, for the first time In
many weeks the provost guard
on duty in the main part of
Douglas appeared armd with
rifles, in addition to the pistols
and clubs they usually carry.
The border patrol Is reported
to have been doubled tonight.
This, it is stated, is merely a
precautionary measure, not be
cause anything definite has de
veloped. Ceneral Calles. mili
tary governor of Sonora. de
nied today through Consul Ives
G. Lelevler, that he had gone
to El Paso for other purposes
than to report to General OI
regon on the progress of the
Yaqui Indian campaign in Son
ora and on financial matters.
9
'
.
'
:
:
'
;
'
!
'
H BILL CUT
TO
Senate Conferees Accede To
House In Number Of Reg
ulars. Bill For 700.CCO Re
serves Remains Unchanged
(By Review Leased Wire.) !
WASHINGTON. May 1 Hope fori
an agreement in conference jn th; j
army reorganization bill seemed
brighter tonight after an all day ses
sion of the conference committee on
AGAIN:
1111
a basis for negotiution of the defense I
between the House and Senate was j WASHINGTON. May l.-President
reached. , ... , 'Wilson has not altered his purpose to
Senate t'jnferees agreed to yield in-1 k)lpp Ameri( 8n troops on the border
proposed standing army of 2:. 0.000 1 reaion8 of M,co unti, brigandage
and accepted a peace strength of ISO.- jjas reasi.(j
000 men. provided the House would : After , brjf conferenct, at ,he
accept the expansion system of or-'XVhitp fouae tod Seoretary t'-aker
ganlzation in the Senate bill. l-ndei- prepared further instructions for Gen
this system the regular army could ;tiruU Scott anJ Funstim by
b ncrw,swl ,n time of conflict fJtht. officeM as a ruU of ,heir .on
220,000 or more. House conferees fWBCe wUh General Obregon. Car
tentatively agreed to this propos.tion j ranza waf minigter Th mMsa!e
upon which to ba.se argument-, as toiwen, forwarJ l()niKh,. , ,-jntent
if. , , I were not revealed but both Secretary
The Chamberlain bill before It was anJ Se,.retary !Jakt.r f3lid
amended and placed the maximum ,n,,re ,md b nu rnanse in th(.
strength jf the regular army at ! a,,.uinistrati,m-8 po!U.v.
about 180.000 men whereas the, u u Df.lu,VeU the American con
House bill left it at 140,000. ; ferees 8l)U(:ht atuitionai instructions
Although the conferees are exert-, tLe view of lho dt fa,.lo sov.
ing every possible effort to reach erniwM ,nat ,he American expedition
1 fear tnat a" disputed points cannot
80me Polnts D?c V sen?le
.,,
PflMPIII xflRY FRVIPF
UUHll ULwUll I ULflllUL
IfJ prifll uFllI ARaIiI
lallUUnllU nUnill IW
AGITATING PARLIAMENT
LONDON .May 1 The next few
days' sessions of the Parliament will
be as Interesting as any since the war
began. The government must attempt
to pass legislation for recruiting which
probably will take the form of com
pulsion for all with an interval for
further voluntary enlistments.
The rebellion In Ireland and the
impossible task imposed upon Major
i General Townsend
in Mesopotamia
, prevened the tragic episode from fill-
! ing the public mind as it otherwise
I would.
A majority or newspapers noiu tne
government responsible for the Irish
! outbreak w.hile the opposition atiri-
bntes to civilian mismanagements thei
dlsasiec, to tne ary at iut-ei-.mara. ra,p indicating th:t the American
Others 'contend that the expedition I armv , preparing for t least a tem
was justified by its work in holding a pora'rv 8nionrn in Mexican soil T'ucv
large Turkish army around Bagdad a, tha, tn( sixih. Sixteenth and
durhig the winter, which otherwise j seventeenth infantry regiments ar
miaht have participated in an altaack
, on Kgypt.
They also consider the position of
the Turks dangenus because of the
,.. , .,.,. . , ,,, K i
fact that the present cabinet includes
! (Continued on Page Two.
n np
iimiMinu
l! ffz
i! S GRAVE
i
Washington Wires Scott Ob-
regon Must Recede From
Demands For Withdrawal;
j Mexican Obdurate.
I WILL CONFER AGAIN
THIS AFTERNOON
1 tKT I V . liv.l l 1 r
no immediate wunarawai,
Wires Baker. Patrol Of
Chihuahua By Americans
Is Asked
(By Review Leased Wire
EL PASO. May 1 Information
from Washington that Secretary
Baker has instructed Creneral
Scott anil General Funston to
make it plain to General Obrecon
that any agreement reached at
their conference here must not be
based on any plan for immediate
witdrawal, was received with
gravity in Juarex tonight.
General Obregon refused any
comment, saying he would await
developments at bis next confer
ence with General Scott. This it
was explained tonight, will take
place tomorrow. It might be de
layed until after . the regular
cabinet meeting Tuesday.
Among other Mexican officials,
it was their open expression that
Obregon had come to the border
and that he had to presuade Gen
eral Scott and Ceneral Funston
that the American troops should
be withdrawn.
nhrtiilil ht A it htlri vn nt nm -cv A A
i 0eneral Scott na,, power to dis-
; pnss Ma mattrr ,;t;, General Ob re-
gon, he referred it to Washington for
decision.
It was argued that the de facto gov
ernment could not afford any break
v ith the United States, upon whoeo
recognition its stability rests. Any
jpen disagreement must result in 4a-
jterruptiou of these relations.
U. S. Asks Litre.
1 The American plan for cooperation
, peed net entail any particular hard
i ship on the de facto government, it
was further pointed out. since the
zone jf American occupation could be
i limited to the occupation of parts of
: Chihuahua.
There was a marked disposition to
attach some significance to the f;t
that Secretary Baker's instruction to
Generals Scott and Fuusfjn refetred
jonly to the Washington government's
! intention not to agree to an immedi
ate" withdrawal. This did not indi
cate. It wa asserted, any objection
to withdrawal after a reasonable
per.'jd. Mexican officials said today
that they. would like to have the ex
pedition withdrawn but that they
would abide by the wishes of the re
spective governments.
Little credence was attached, how
ever, to reports that General Obregon
mlaht decide to end the conference
unless some agreement was s'.on
reached. '
While matters were at a standstill
t0lav npw reports of a relinble nature
nnw at S'arniouina. General Pershing's
base. nd that the Twentv-fourth in-
fantrv U guarding the line of com-
mxnicatfin from Columbus.
The Thirteenth and Klqventh reui
ments of cavalry and part of the
Tenth and Seventh also were reported
at Namiquipa. with the Sixth on its
wav to that point.
With this large force at his com
mand and with the costnmary d
f"ns preparations made, it was indi
cated that General Pershing was
ready for any eventuality.
Only a few scattered column M
th exp'd'tionarv force are reported
south of Namlquioa. The great bulk
of General Pershing's men are now
well within 20 miler of the border.
(Continued on Page Two.)
