THE BARME DAILY TIME
VOL. XX NO. 41.
BAIUIE, VERMONT, TUESDAY, MAY 2, 1910.
PllICE, ONE CENT.
GERMAN
SETBACK
SEVERE
Strong Attack by the French
Southeast of Fort Douau-
mont Carried 500 Metres
of First Line Trench and
Delivered Hundreds of
Germans into the Hands
of the French
1,000 METRES TAKEN
ON DEAD MAN'S HILL
Latter Victory for French
Pushed Back the Germans
for Distances Varying
from 300 to 600 Metres
Artillery Busy from Avo
court to Dead Man's Hill
Paris, May 2. A strong attack was
made by French troops last night on
German positions southeast of Fort Dou
aumont on the Verdun front. The French
captured a first line German trench 500
metres long, the war office announced
this afternoon, and took hundreds of
prisoners. West of the river Meuse, the
activity of the artillery continued
thjough the night from the Avocourt re
gion to Dead Man's hill.
The war office also announced that in
the attacks on April 29 and 30 on the
north slope of Dead Man's hil the French
gained German trenches over a front of
1,000 metres and for a depth of from 300
to 600 metres.
Germans Successful Against British.
Berlin, via wireless, May 2. The offi
cial statement says that French attacks
on th Verdun front east of .the Meuse
"yesterday were repulsed in a fierce strug
gle at close quarters after several hours.
North of loos a strong German officers'
patrol entered British trenches in a sur
prise attack last night. The occupants
of the trenches were unable to escape and
were cut down.
FILIPINO FREEDOM
UNSETTLED BY
, HOUSE VOTE
By 213 to 165, the House Voted Last
Wight to Kill Bill Granting Independ
ence in Four Years, and By an
Overwhelming Vote Substi
tuted Jones Bill.
. Washington, I. C, May 2 The admin
istration's fight for the benate Philippine
bill with its Clarke amendment authoriz
ing independence for the islands within
four years wag lost last night in the
House. After voting 213 to 165 to strike
out the Clarke amendment, the House by
a vote of 261 to 17 passed as a substitute
for the entire measure the Jones bill.
There is nothing in the body of the
Jones bill promising independence to ths
riliptnos nor anything in any part of it
setting a definite time for declaration of
their independence. The preamble mere
ly states that it always has been the in
tention of the United States government
to grant the islands their freedom and tjttitjttit O TXT fAT!TTt)V
in order that thev mav he better tire- UVUiJlUO ll WUI J. 1 V J.
pared for it a larger degree of control
over their domestic affairs is placed in
their hands. ,
HYDRANT SERVICE
FOR SOUTH BARRE
AS REQUESTED
.
City Proposes to Install Three or More at
a Yearly Rental of $50 Each and
$25 Additional for Each in
Flushing Purposes.
Prices on three or more hydrants for
AvsA Cn11 nnv,Jc 4? T?Owlo Barre were quoted at the city
i ah4 uiiiaii ijauuo ui Avcucioi ., , . .... .. .
(council iiiuruiig itiBV iiini. nj jrpi iu n
Are Still Makinf Trouble communication addressed to the council
. , last week. Tin
SNIPERS STILL
KEEP UP WORK
ABOUT DUBLIN
DOUBLE CRIME
IN FARMHOUSE
George A. Pettis and His
Daughter of Thompson, .
Conn., Shot to Death
TWO SLIGHT FIRES.
iree or more hvdrants at a
in " the Suburbs, Despite y'v rental of $50 each, with $25 - REJECTED SUITOR
' r tionwl for the use of each hydrant for IIWOEjKjI&V OUlXJl
the Collapse OI the UPHS- ""f".' purposes, were recommended in I QF GIRL 'ACCUSED
juini report orougni m oy ue mii
ine flTld thp SlirrPtldpr of manic tire and water committees. It was
recommended that a three-vear contract
the Majority. Of MalCOn- for hydrants be signed and that break- .
. "g" and freezing expenses be borne by Sheriff S FOSSe IS oCOUf
tents
ARE GIVING UP FIGHT
the petitioners, who are to see to it that
none but competent men are permitted
to use the devices. J lie report was c
eeptcd so far as the council is concerned
and whether or not the villagers are to
have the service lunges on the attitude of
those who framed the communication
There was the usual grist of monthly
! warrants to approve at the session and
most of the other business was of a rou
Woods to Find John
Elliott
Thompson, Conn., May . 2. George A.
Pettis, a well-to-do farmer, and his
U. S. DETERMINATION
MAY HASTEN END
OF THE CONFERENCE
Refusal to Withdraw Troops from Mexi
co is Expected to Bring Negotiations
to Speedy Termination.
El Paso, Tex., May 2. W ith the qucs-
lon of immediate withdrawal of Amer
ican troops from Mexico disposed of in
the instructions from Washington, the
border conference appears to have
reached a concrete and perhaps final
stage.
Information from Washington that
Of 1,000 Prisoners Taken in
Dublin, 489 Were Sent to
England British Official
Report Declares That the
City Is Reported to Be
Quite Safe
tine diameter. At the request of people da"ghtpr- Miw 'sJ'il retti ged 23
well street. h. It, MTdi appeared with a
request for street and sidewalk improve
mcnts. Mr. Cardi desctibed in detail the
conditions that obtain in that section at
Called Department to North End and to
South End of City,
A telephone call for aid in subduing a
stubborn chimney fire in the two-tene
ment' houso at 68-70 Ayers street came
in at the fire station this morning jut
as Acting Chief Carpenter was sound
ing the 8:10 o'clock test call. Three of
the regulars responded in the auto truck
and for nearly an hour they were busy
with the chimney. A garden hose was
used at first in extinguishing sporadic
outbreaks among the shingles on tlie
roof, but afterward when the wmu
seemed bound to have its way with the
blaie, the firemen scaled the roof with
ladders and used the chemical bolution
with good effect. The house is occupied
by the families of David Morgan and
George Pithie. The damage was inconse
quential. A general alarm from box 141 at the
ing corner of North Main and Willey streets
Monday afternoon at 3:20 o'clock emp
tied the hre station of its wheeled ap
paratus only to have the all-out sound
immediately . An overheated stove in a
tenement on Willey fctreet, owned by
George W. Mann and occupied by the
family of E. Kizzi, was responsible for
the general alarm and for a telephone
call sent in to the fire station a few mo
ments earlier. The firemen found a
couch afire near the stove and the blazo
was rapidly communicating to other fur-
IS PROBABLE
Supreme C c Regan Its
May n Ji at Mont
r 4vr To-day
EX' HONS' WAIVED
IN'D. A. BISBEE CASE
And Judgment Was Affirmed
for Cyrus R. Curray's
Administrator
who live on the hillside' reached by Iilack- years, were shot to death in their home
to-day, and deputy sheriff and a posse nishimr. in the room when the regulars
oi citizens are searcning me surround- applied the contents of a chemical tank.
ing country lor doiin tinou, a man oi The damage was not laree.
nrHiiii -4:1 vpara wnn lit riiH.rirtn wii.n t,iir i m,,.., w
t'??'? A"d Ah.!" 'IJ'r." hootinK a",,d who is boliev("1 t0 U hiding Lw. v from home when the fire broke out
nan iniri iru w v'l" wrft tuiiiniiVLrc. i ha ursvwla
John Cleary, who is doing considerable Tl,. rof.,..'i f t;.. pHi. ,;.
'VrC- df5rr"ndPI h? b"8iT8 attention of Elliott is believed by from the structure,
block t 369 North Main street came to- thfl aiJ(horitiM and othcr, to ,lave been ,rom ".
Kill i v Yy. ""m 'Y - " I ZZ ' which killed Mr. Pettis and his daughter,
hnlli-linor fnr rni rtiimitRA fif nuikinir newer I . . B '
j. . " . n.v r,,,,. . ,, , were fired through a window, the mur-
adjustments. The lifting will be only , . . f . ., . . '. .
im- fi , ,. i ,i v,. derer having first cut the telephone-wire
mil jumii, .'i i . limi T mi. i " " I , , . , , . , . ,
continued bv promising to pav the street " K, , """" . r lo l,rB,cu
department for the work. The council " ."'
wns disposed to look with favor on the
nd it remained for one of the work
men m a nearby shed to discover smoke
CHAUTAUQUA ORGANIZED.
Dublin, May 2. Despite the collapse
of the rebel movement, a few irreconcil-
ables are still holding out and snipers request, which was referred to the street
Secretary Baker had instructed General and small bands are making trouble in committee with power to act
runston and General rx'Ott to make it the suburbs
plain to General Obrcgon that any agree- M , M tfc nM , 1ub
monr rpuvnsiri at. thnir winfflmncii horA
must not be based on any plan for im- uave surrenaerea ana tnosc in ine ana ine result oi vne coinmiitee repon st, tieorge and Vlnaihaven, Me., yuarnes
niPf mt withdrawn! of American troons country districts are doinir likewise, ac- "c" ""lv -
Three liglits in districts that are much
Iin need of artificial illumination were
recommended by the lighting committee,
400 PAVING CUTTERS
QUIT THEIIt PLACES
i a. in j. a c . r: 1 J I
from Mexico, was received with gravity cording to an official statement issued f! " "J'"' -rn
in Juarez
General Obregon refused to comment
saying he would await developments at
his next conference. Among other Mex
ican officials gloom was openly expressed.
It was pointed out that General Obregon
had come to the border confident that
he could persuade Generals Scott and
Funston that the American expedition
ary forces should be withdrawn at once
Secretary Baker's instructions to the
American conferees were regarded as
completely blocking the hopes of the
Mexican minister of war.
Washington, D. C, May 2. President
last. evening. The statement ssys:
'All the rebels in Dublin hnve
a 2ol-watt litrht for Iorth Main street
near Hotel Milano, so called. An offer
May Be Closed Paving Men
Want More Wages.
Rockland, Ma., May 2. Four hundred
Preliminary Meeting Was Held in Bane
Last Evening.
A meeting of the people interested in
starting a Community Chautauqua
movement in this city was held in the
city court room last evening. K. R. Da
vis was chosen chairman of the meeting
and C. iS. Andrews, secretary. C. H
Turner, assistant manager of the Cha.u
tauqua organization then outlined the
course which will be given here, this year
and told of the advantages of such
movement as the Chautauqua to the
community. He emphasized particularly
tho educational, civic, social and morel
rendered and the city is reported quite from the People's Lighting, Heating &- paving cutters, representing virtually ail good which the course will do and spoko
safe. The rebels in the country districts
are surrendering to the mobile columns.
"There were 1,000 prisoners in Dublin
yesterday of whom 480 were sent to Eng
land last night. 1
It is reported from Queenstown that
hopes were entertained that arms would
be handed in to-day in the city of (ork.
"During the night of April 30-May 1
the rebels in Enniscorthy made an offer
to surrender their leaders and their arms
Power Co. to burn a brieht caslieht on of their craft employed in several ouar- also of the advantages of the commum
Depot square for $S0 per year was con- ries in the towns of St. George and Vin- ty playground meeting in the morning,
sidered and after discussion the fighting alhaven, quit work yesterday pendiir
committee wa instructed to use its own settlement of demands for increased
discretion in the matter of installing an waees. Manufacturers said the quarries
would have to close entirely, throwing
out 400 other workers, unless an early
settlement was reached.
Wilson has not altered his purpose to on. ntkm that the rand and file be
keep American troops in the border re
gion of Mexico until brigandage has
come to an end. A dispatch sent to Gen
eral Scott last night" was supplemented
to one sent Sunday. It was prepared by
Secretary Baker after a brief confer-
allowed to return to their homes. They
were informed that the only terms that
could be entertained were unconditional
surrender.
adequate gas or electric light in whst
has come to be known as darkest lie
pot square.
Wiring Inspector David Gilhertson wns
present with a sizeable package of re
quests for permission to wire and permits
were grunted in the followini; order: J.
E. Murphy, to wire for lights at 8 Mer
chant streets John Cleary, to wire for
lights at 309 North Main street; J. K
Hoban, to wire for lights in the Otis ho-
to which the children are admitted freu
ot charge. .
following Mr. Turners talk, an execu
tive committee was elected. George N
Tilden was made president; Frank E.
Langley, Robert Gordon, Joseph G. Cal-
cagni, Mrs. frank Martin, Mrs. Kobert
Q. McDonnell and the incoming president
of the Woman's club, vice president;
C. S. Andrews, secretary; Charles 11.
Wishart, treasurer; Mrs. George Bond,
chairman of the ticket committee; N. J.
Roberts, chairman of the advertising
crease of 10 cents an hour instead of 3i committee; Lmery Newhall, chairman ot
'and 'Charles L.
granted recognition as a union, loO la-J Brown, local playground assistant. The
rs in the Howe Scale Works ended latter otllcer will work witn the nation-
their week's strike last night. The spe- al playground's society man who will
cial police and deputy sheriffs, who have have charge of the morning meeting for
been guarding the plant, were removed tne ennaren
ACCEPTED 10-CENT RAISE.
Laborers in Howe Scale Works Also Get
Recognition of Union.
Rutland. Mav 2. By accepting an in-
ITALIAN FRONT UNCHANGED.
Austrians Claim to Have Repulsed Ital
ians at Fargorida Pass.
Berlin, bv wireless, Mnv 2. An official
statement .from Vienna yesterday says
the situation on the Italian front is gen
erally unchanged. In the Adamello dis
trict, the troops repulsed enemy attack
which were directed principally against
the Fargorida pass. The Alpini suffered
heavy losses.
LILLE LIBRARY BURNED.
Famous Books Were Saved Spread of
Flames Stayed.
Berlin, vial wireless, May 2. The tow
hall at Lille, France, has been burned.
and the most valuable books of the fa
nious library were saved by the Frenc
woman librarian, assisted by German sol
dicrs. The fire department kept th
flames from spreading.
COMPULSION BILL WEDNESDAY.
Premier Asquith Gave Notice in House
of Commons.
' London, Mav 2. Premier Asquith de
clared in the House of Commons to-day
that a bill, to be introduced Wednesday,
would lie one of general and immediate
compulsion. Premier Asquith hopes to
give an early opportunity for discussion
of a motion calling for the resignation
of Chief Secretary for Ireland Birrell
The House of Commons wag told that
the total naval ami "military efforts of
the British since the beginning of the
war exceeded 5.000,000 men. The army,
exeluiliiig India and including the Do
minion, comprises 83 divisions.
TO PLEAD VERMONT CAUSE.
Commissioner Brigham to Appear Before
Interstate Commerce Commission.
St. Alban. -Mav 2. Klliert S. Ftrigham
tiite eonimiionir of sericulture, will
h-me to-night for Washington. 1). ('.,
where he ill represent the state of Ver
inort before the interstate commerce
ii'iiiini-H'ii at a hen rink' on oral argii
iihiiM in the New England milk rate
ae. I his ca came out of the filing by
the Itot-n ir Maine, the Maine Central.
the t entral Vermnnt and the Rutland
railroads of new tariff on transportation
of milk, which, in the cae of the Boston
& AP.iine and the Maine Ontral roads
tnsd a conidrrahle increase in the rate
.n milk and cream shipped to BoMon.
The contractors and producer filed a
protect rt,int the new tariff and a hear
in2 was held in IWton. At that hearing
1 1. no-r.illr.1 leaded car STMem, which Is
c-ortt.iim-d in the new tariff, was also
made an r-u in the cae, the states of
-hiiett, (onnif nt and Vermont
;.rtetin2 2Tin.t it continuance. Su
tmiei t n thi mint whirh developed at
!) i.;on hearing m divided in ew
li 'irph r. while in Maiw the sentiment
ir''le t, ts leMd car arrange-
tliTl.
demand for withdrawal of the troops
been made by any representative of the
de facto government.
GERMANY'S REPLY
MAY BE COUNTER
PROPOSALS
last night.
90,000 ORDERED OUT.
Tl i i..J
" v , i . LI a In rt u fnm lir.l4a in hlB .... .... l. ' ...
bv them at 0 o'clock this morning. It -IT. ViVd I. ' , " ; " tnp7 1,1,(1 kea " "6 grounus; commuiee
was reported late that the rebels wers ,,,rM. u( ,i vrtl, Ma, . vm. ?rar
.i a , , ... ifi. I surrendering to-Har on tliee tertnu. It- . , .i 1 tKire
ence wun me presiaeni inn laier laiKs " " " ,. i nam neiny, 10 wire lor ngnis c ..)
with.Secretary Baker and Counselor Polk A, '""V -'4'"" " "" ' Granite street; E. E. Clarkson A Co. to
of the state department. r"1 Jnsn f 'nsiaouiary capiureu seven wir(! for Iilltf, in thc L. M. Averill block;
It was stated officially that no formal " "-',""""""' "'"" Unl v ilson. to wire lor lights and
mand for withdrawal of the troops had " , ' t0'uay- . , niotor in the Kempton mill; Montpclier
nicKiow. Arrow, ifliinain, nagenaw- & Barre Lighting & Power Co., to wire
town, aim iew oss ana ine couniics oi fr , exterior light at 343 North Main
Cork, Clare, Limerick and Kerry are street Wilfred ltonreanii. to wire for
generally quiet. The whole of Clster is exterior light near Depot square lunch In Sympathy with 60,000 Locked Out in
cart; C. L. Bugbee, to wire for lights in a New York.
i Ant a mi rxwi Lint tirnaf I
From the huildin insnector came fa- Vork. May 2.-The International hare three or four and the grounds com-
vorable recommendations on the follow. Ladies' Garment Workers' union has or- mittee will probably require six or sev
imr annlieatinn. tiprmif. r m-nt.- dered a strike in retaliation for thc lock- en
eH- v r W'etmore in rreet amiev tit out of 60,000 workers on women s gar- As Mr. Inrner said, "lo make a sue
house at 64 Warren street- (. A. I-ane mcnts by the Manufacturers' Protective cess of the Chautauqua requires the co-
to erect annex to lunch room, 3111. association. The order applies to OO.OOvl. operation of everyone in the town and
N'orth Main street; (5. A. Lucia, to erect
a dwelling on Nelson street; shield 4 AGREEMENT REACHED.
Milne, to build a etoneshed annex on De-
Amsterdam Dispatch Declares That It
Will Not Be Final Reports Says Re
ply Will Not Be Delivered Till
Thursday.
London, May 2. A dispatch from Am
sterdam says that diplomatic circles in
touch with Germany believe the reply to
the American note will be delivered
Thursday but that it will not be final.
Germany is expected to make counterproposals.
LESS APPREHENSION.
of Morrisville, K. S. MacLeod of Bellows
Falls, R. C. Sanders of Brattleboro hnd
W A. Tennien of Pittsford. Key and
Is the Report from Berlin On the Nego
tiations.
Berlin, Mav 2, via Ixmdon. Future
German-American relations probably can
be looked forward to with less apprehension.
Til- l.Blv.;.I.J Pr... ttnvmiitA
lie -nr-J." lot.. .! ...,,,.. w . ,. . , t i,..iu.
make this statement although dispatches . ' D . .J , . , . . .,
. . ., , , ,, ' boro, K. A. Briggs of Randolph. H. L. liar-
bearing on the nature of the German re-' it-. n- i n
. .. , ris of Ieominster, Mass., W. R. LeBaron
plv to the American note respecting sub- , . . , ,r .
' - . . . , ' j i of Waterburv, G. P. Manning of Buffalo,
- " j i v v .n,i li ir v.,M.irio...i r Al
i, . I -v. A., mti-t ... k'uiim i ibiiu vi i.'i,.
"i- . !,
-ti j i : i a : a, t l i i
jne oeiiueraiioiiB lb greai nea.iuuai- Tl, d 1 T.,ll
lar. tiav-A Vuian ,nr1,irtiifl anI AtnKfiBa I ' . "
, " , , , . " . , , . tor thc young women of the two lower
dor Gerard left last evening for Berlin, cUssc. w ,,, in ,hp rvcmne .t 8
arriving here to-day. o'clock in the Billinzs library. The first
ine uerman repiy is rxpectea witn .-, ; i,i
quiet."
FOUNDER'S DAY OBSERVED.
University of Vermont Held Literary Ex
ercises and Defeated Middlebury.
Burlington. May 2. Founder's da v was
observed at the University of Vermont
yesterday with appropriate exercises in
the gymnasium, followed bv a baseball
game In which the university defeated 1 pot square; mis. reriey i nanoier, to re- t the Street Railway Strike Situation
Middlebury college, 6 to 1. The speakers sningie dwelling at pit rvnun .Main street; Jn pjttsbure
at the exercises were H. H. Powers. '17. R. U. MelVinncll, to erect a dwelling
of MorrisviHe, on "The New Democracy"; house on Perry street. Mr. Unci per- Pittsburg, May 2 An agreement has
K. K Grismer, 16, of lhirlington, on nut must oe sstisiactory lo tne lire com- oeen rcacnea oeiween ine sireei nuay
The Spirit of America"; and M. C. Rob- (mittee before work is permitted to pro- company and its striking employes,
bins '08, of New York City, on "Educa- ceed.
tion for World Problems." Fred C. Fisher's request for permission
Elections to honorary societies were I to install a gasoline tank at the rear ot
announced as follows: Boulder society, 1 24 Averill street was referred to the fire
R. M. Anderson of North Craftsbury, J. committee with power to act. A pool
F. Burke of West Rutland, R. P. Bur- room license to the tenant in thc base-
rage of lominster, Mass.. E. L. Chatter- nient of the Griftin block on North Main
ton of Pittsford, P. B. Churchill of South street was granted and Charles Wilkin-
Londondcrrv, J. A. Hitchcock of Pitts- son of Montpclier was granted a, plumb
ford. R. F. Joyce of Proctor. M. U Kclley er s license
A meeting of the executive board will
be held at the city court room next Mon
day evening at 8 VcKwk, at which timo
the other members of the various com
mittees will be chosen. The ticket com
mittee will consist of from 50 to i0
members, the advertising committee will
LYNDE'S SUIT DROPPED.
plii
lie
little delay, but it is regarded as up
desirable that preliminary indications of
the nature of the note should be pub
lished abroad.
Washington, I). C, May 2. The cab-
net held a brief session to-day, discuss
ing the Irerman and .Mexican question
Secretary Lansing said that no steps
were contemplated to hurry the German
reply on the submarine question.
KILLED IN ACTION.
Trevor P. Jones, Formerly of St. Johns
bury, Was with Canadian Troops.
St. Johnsburv, May 2. Corporal Tre-
or P. Jones of the 24th (anadian bat
talion in the overseas service, formerly
draftsman in the Fairbanks Scale com
pany s plant here, has been killed in re
ion in the trenches in france. Word
aa received of bis death Testerdav at
the office of the Fairbanks company. Cor
poral Jones was SO years old ami a na
ive of W ales. He enlisted with the Can-
an force a year ago leaving Montreal
for the front.
BANKERS' TRIAL STARTS.
George C Averill of Brattleboro Defend
ant at Burlington.
Burlington, May 2. The case of Cnited
States vs. George C. Averill of Brattle
boro, alleged fal entries in bank book'.
pened for trial to-day in district cwirt.
A. Dullard, district attorney. lroe-
cutirg and C. C. Fitts defending.
Frances Willard Field, '!!), of Ferrisburg;
the second, $15, to Marion Alberta Day,
'10, of Maynard, Mass.; and the third, !( $ti7S 2n, e
10, to Vim May Purinton, '10, of Bur-1 ivcquct' Bros.,
HTlXloii. ifiroiwi iiriiui rii i im tl! ut'l 1 1 u.
'18, of Burlington, received honorable
mention.
ARGUING ALIENATION SUIT.
That WWch Frank C. Phelps Brought
Against Charles Utley.
Argument were made in Washington I accounts
county court to-day in the $0,mi aliena
tion case brought by Frank C. Phelps of
Cmbot against Charles Ctley of Hard-
wick, formerly of Cabot. At the reopen
ing of the court following the week-end
recess Attorney F. L. Laird opened the
case for the plaintiff, referring to the va
rious dates on which the plaintiff claims
that Mrs. Phelps and Itley met secretly
In his argument for the defendant Attor
ney M.' G. .Morse took up one of luc&c
dates, thut of Sept. 28. 1915. and brought
out the alibi of the defendant, which was
that I'tler went to Burlington on Sept.
27 and sold some lumber, after which Be
returned to Hardwick. spent the night td
the -'7th in Hardwkk and then went to
Greensboro on the following day. At
torney Mors asserted that I tley was in
Greensboro talking business when the
plaintiff claimed he was in Cabot and
osJIing at the Phelps residence.
Bills Ordered Paid.
Warrants were approved for'psyment
as follows: Barre Times, f 137.5.3. adver
tising account, 1015; James Mackay,
101.82, salary and miscellaneous ac
counts; (). J. L. Matthews $00.47. Martin
Riley $87.80, A. M. Kossi $87.75, salary
as assessors and cash paid out; C. W.
Averill A Co., $(IU.ti". supplies, street,
sewer, city buildings, water and fire ac
counts; Itarre Electric. Co., $3tl..30, sup
lies, street, city buddings, tire and po
e accounts; engineering department,
$.i0.0(, work, several departments Kemp
ton Mills, $43.10, supplies, fire account;
Montpclier A Itarre Lighting Si Power
electricity and supplies;
$25.00. blacksmithing;
Smith, Whitcomb & took Co., $H.77, sup
plies, street account: A. J. Stewart.
$10.50. supplies, street account; Barrett
Manufacturing Co.. $273.30. tarvia, street
account; V. K. Ayers. $."..'!. supplies,
sewer account: Alexander & Co.. $24.4!.
supplies, sewer account; Allen Lumber
Co., $4.87, supplies cer aci-ount ; Trow
4 Hohlen. $5.40, plies, sener and fire
K. I., t hrk. .4JI.7'. feed, fire
account; H. ( ole, I7..VI, as-i-tuig en
gineer; r. t. l.ee, .l., -ervices as en
gineer iind water superintendent: Cutler
Bros., $5.5(1. team hire; l C. Gillette.
$7.70. shoeing, water account ; Papin Bros..
$1.50. team hire, water and jioliee ac
counts; Perry Auto Co.. $2.1(5. supplies,
water scifiunt ; Anna Robertson, $42, as
sisting superintendent; street depart
ment. $5.3'i. labor, water account ; Ver
mont Tire A Kubler Co.. $5.20. water ac
count: ater department, $10.5I. cash
paid out; People's Lighting. Hesting 4
Power Co.. 2. gas light, city hall ac
count: street department. 0.1,, labor,
city buildings a-eonnt: S. H. Jackson.
$mi. legal services, miscellaneous account ;
Vermont Tel. A Tel. Co.. $15.45. tele
phone. misrIhnrous aceount ; Oimminrs
A Iwis. $!". supplies, fire account;
(.smew el I Fire Alarm Co., $72.4', sup
plies, fire nwim'.
New Knc!d W I 'O t o., 4 . supplies
His $10,000 Alienation Case Against Doo-
Iittle Ends Unexpectedly.
Bralllelniro, May 2. Charles Lynde's
suit against Merton Doolittle for $10.0(10
for the alleged alienation of the affec
tions of Mrs. Lvnde came to an unexpect
ed end in county court yestrday after
noon when Attorney. Ernet W. Gibson.
Lynde's counsel, announced a discontinu
ance of the case. 1
Mr. Gibson first asked for a continu
ance because a material witness could
not lie found. Orrin B. Hughes and
Frank E. Barber, counsel for Mr. Doolit
tle, lat that moment had the witness in
one of their offices, and when they offered
to produce him Mr. Gibson said he would
discontinue the case.
The suit was luvsed on letters intro
duced in a breach of promise case. Lynde
identified them as having been written
bv his wife to Doolittle. '
the executive lioard hopes to find every
one willing to serve on a committee and
to do all in their power to help to mako
the Chautauqua a success.
FOUR GIVEN TRANSFER.
Rev. Fred MaeNeil, who recently re
signed as pastor of the Presbyterian
church at Graniteville, went to-day, ac
companied by his family, to Lennoxville,
Me., where he expects to remain for a
time. While stopping in Montpelier for
a time be told a reporter that he hnd
three pulpit charges in view, two of them
being in northern New Hampshire and
one in Maine, but that be was undecided
whst he would do in the matter of se
lection. . He also informed the reporter
that he would return to that citv in
October to take up with his attorney the
question of taking to supreme court the
case which he recently lost, having been
sued by McDomld of ;ranite ille for al
leged false representation in a timber
csl in Maine.
When No One Appeared at Hearing to
Object to Locations.
Four applications to transfer licenses
were granted by the commissioners this
morning after a brief session of the
board in the council chamber at city hall.
No one appeared at 9 o'clock to protect
the proposed transfers and when the
licensees called to inquire if they could
proceed with their transfers they were
told to procure their licenses from the
city clerk. William A. Reilly is to trans
fer from 303 North Main street to 03
Granite street, where his first-class li
cense will be operative. John E. Hoban s
second-class license is transferred from
303 North Main street to 20 IVarl street
and William Emslie and William Wright,
jr., are permitted to transfer their first
class license from 33 Granite street to
357 North Main street in the G. Tomani
block. Sanction is also given Gilbert
Phillips to transfer a second-class license
from 303 North Main street to 243 North
Main street in the Zanlecini building.
With 3d cases set for hearing, the May
erm of supreme court, which opened ab
10 o'clock this forenoon at Montnelier.
'promises to occupy several weeks' time,
a large number of cages, having been
transferred from the docket to the trial
calendar when the cases were reviewed
by the court. There were about 25 at
torneys present this forenoon, prayer be
ing offered by Rev. Lewis C. Carson, pas
tor of the Church of the Messiah, .Mont
pclier. Washington county cases set for hears
ing follow: R. C. Bowers Granite Co. vs.
Drew Daniels Granite Co.; William B.
Turney vs. E. S. Norma ndeau; William
F. Richards vs. Consolidated Lighting
Co.; Clara B. Lowe vs. Vermont Saving
bank; G. R. Bianchi Granite Co. vs. Terra
Haute Monumental Co.: Byron L. Wilbur
vs. Town of Calais; Dorwin W. Coolcy
vs. D. V. Hatch et al. The case of Rum
ble vs. John W. McDonald et al was con
tinued, the exceptions not having been
settled, in the cane of Coolev-Wright
'Manufacturing Co. vs. Eastern Fruit &
Nut Orchard Co.. a motion wa-s made In
dismiss the exceptions and the motion
will be heard.
The first case set for hearing is H. C.
Potter vs. I. X. Chase, Addison county,
and the one following is leon Dnne vs.
Xeoma Bean, Caledonia county. The case
of Jennie M. Mcl.eod vs. Albert A. Dan
iels, Caledonia county, was passed, attor
eny for the plaintiff stating that the casa
was nettled two years ago.
A motion to dismiss tho exceptions in
the case of Jennie M. Spinney, adm., vs.
0. V. Hooker & Son, Caledonia, was en
tered. Chittenden county, John Forvillu
vs. Archibald Casev, settled and discon
tinued. The two telephone cases, appeals
from the public service commission, in
which settlements may be made, tha
cases having twice been continued, were
entered with the court. In the Windham
county cases. Attorney General vs. Cen
tral Vermont railroad and Rutland rail
road, appeals Jfroiu the public. rvic
commission, Attorney General Barber
asked that the cases be remanded, but
no entry was made, the cases being1
passed for the present. Probably settled
was the entry made in the case of A. G.
Gallup vs. Thomas Welcome et al, W ind-
ham county.
Exceptions were waived and judgment
affirmed in the Addison county case of
Cyrus R. Curray's adm. vs. Dim A. Bi
bee. The judgment favors the plaint iff.
Among the attorneys jiresent this fore
noon were Roswell M. Austin of St. Al
bans, C. V. Ponlin of Rutland, John ,
Gordon, A. G. Fav, E. R. Ikivis of Barre,
Roger W. HurlbuVd of Hyde Park. W. B.
C. Stickney of Ludlow, Sherman Moultort
of Burlington, R. E. Healy of Bennington,
George oung of Xewport, March M.
Wilson of Randolph, Stanley C. Wilson
of Chelsea. If. G. Barrier of Brattleboro,
J. W. Redmond of Xewport, F. L. Web
ster of St. Albane, Mr. Porter of St,
Johnsburv.
In an opinion rendered by Chief Jus
tice Munson, judgment was reievsed in
the Bennington county case of Mary E.
Fitzgerald against the Metropolitan Lifn
Insurance company. In the lower court
verdict was rendered for thc plaintiff to
recover $513.35. The case wns heard at
the special term of supreme court in
Rutland. By the opinion handed down
to-day the cause i remanded.
In the Washington county case of E.
D. Bartlett vs. Antonio Bonaz.i, tho
plaintiff had filed a demurrer to thc de
fendant's plea. The opinion bv Jiulgn
Haselton holds the plea insufficient and
sustains the demurrer. The case goei
back to county court for hearing.
SWATTED HIM WITH HANDBAG.
H
Woman Broke a Man's Glasses as
Watched Saloon.
Outcropping of the gregarious instincti
ANOTHER BAD CHECK.
Has Turned
Up at St. Johnsbury It
Was for $65.
St. Johnsburv, May 2. The young for
ger who successfully operated among St.
Johnsbury merchants a week ago and
whom the police hae lecn trailing. wi:s
heard from yesterday when another
forged check was received at the Mer
chants' National bank.
This was for $ti. and bore the signa
ture ".Inscph Gauthicr, Esq. The men
hail several of Mr. Gauthier's hrk
checks in his iiosseskn. having helped
himself to them. The check was turned
over to the police.
It was cashed in I.iviere-Iu Mnip,
Province of t,uclee. The forgeries
said lo be very crude, tint all hae
honored.
ABOUT $100,000 COLLECTED.
Attorney J. Ward Carver continued the !
argument fc the plaintiff this alternsn I fire account: K. A. Slmton. S2. hay. tire
and he w ill be followed bv Attorney H. t account : W. J. law. . Hl.M. care of
police account; Johnston A Gamble. $2.50,
teuin. police and election accounts; er-
mont Towel Co.. $3. police account ; J. W .
Dillon. $1.75. in-urance. citv buildings In Automobile Registration Ftes in Three
ai'count; B. (Js-parrllo, $1. printing: Mrs. I Months.
I B. Dodjje, 75 cents, desth of hen; J.I
W. Stewsrt. M. D.. $5u.4. services as) K"x Junction. May 2-Se.T.tsrv of
health officer and cash paid ot; F. G. ! State l.iiv W. Bailey annum, ed Is t
Ru-sell. $22.0. supplies, health account; night that the automobile lor t i.e
S. D. SiWcv. $-54 17. garbage collections; thre months mounted to .-,?;. .
street department natrnll. 402.2. tre.-t. Miscellaneous fees amourt.-d to
permanent street, sprinkling. urf..-e!The li.juor b.-etise f. were s
in the well known numun race niigho
have leen noted in several sections of
the city last evening at a time when first
and second cla-s liquor establishments,
opened in the morning for the firt tints
since Barre legalized the sale of alco
holic beverages, were in their rush hour.
Two arrests were made by the police, but
the greatest difficulty was encountered in
persuading women and other curiosity
seekers not to block the sidewalks. In
Pearl street a crowd assembled in front,
of a tir-t class place saw a woman etrik
a man sharply in theace. The impact
of a well-directed blow had the effect of
shattering hi spectacles, with thp result
that a compliint was made to the polun
and ;rand Juror William W isliart was
aked to-day to prosecute. It is said
that the aggrieved person was sticking
pretty close to the role of thp innocent
I'V-tander when the woman, who lives in
Moiitpelicr. fetched him a blow with her
handbag.
I.tsirgp E. (.Vimi of Monteier. arret
ed bv O'Vi.cr Harry imilile. pb-ade I
U!f" I guilty to a fust offense before M,ii-trat
l. . -.COlI HI C 1 1 V ISJUH !11 flllllM'l
and paid a $5 fine with costs of $..'!.
Ale D. Mitchell of (iranitcville, who t
taken in custody h I bicf Sinclair, ac
knowledged a first offense to-day snl
paid the minimum tine and costs of $fl H'.
Apart from i lsted re of minor dis
turbing order preie yesterday an I
!s-t nening.
Is Candidate for County Senator.
Al'wn. Mir 2. William !. Far-
sewer, spwer and health accounts: water
department pat roll. $40 7; l;re depart -
I
M. Butler will charge the jury law in the Tongnav. 25 cent, returning burial per-i patrol!. $!.3'.: A. Bmis. $14. ervices
afternoon, it is thought. nut; (.slier & Richardson, f, upplic, as janitor; G. K. Ball. $1, water r?bate.
the ehsrter fees I.''J' The
$!!.rV..!:!. The nu.-l'r
c-rscti in 0c (s-t t t.-.- ropt
pirirg t'e entire t,,r '
were II 4 r li-rn.-cA.
.til i
St
M . t Fair
!l be
hill ann
enn-l'dnt
mnceif to-day t 4
tor nourtv -el4-
7.'' :
An P-eJ.'rv retvinei Tf-ter-
;..li mofith'. l-it ! tSl liolje of
. rr prrt- st l-!nl 1 k. P. y.
