MAILS
From San Francisco '
Korea Maru, Dec. 18.
For San Francisco
Shiny, Mam. J)ec. 14,
From Vancouver
Niagara, Dec. 27.
For Vancouver
Makura, Jan. Z,
rrO?
Kicn'mg ' Bulletin. Est. 1S2, No. C;5"i
Hawaiian Star. Vol. XXIV. No. 7C97
16 PA G KS HONOLULU, TERBITORY OF HAWAII, WE 1 X r I A V, DKCKMUKU 1 1D1G.16 PAGES
PRICE FIVE CENTS
rtj 3:30-i-wl
Edition
GREECE FIGHTS FRENCH, SAYS DESPATCH; GERMAN PEACE
PLANS TO REDUCE
CERETAtllA PAVIKG
COST ARE OUTLINED
Ad Club Session Hears Pros
and Cons of Improvement
Debated; Parked Spaee May
Be Solution .
Possibility that the cost of paving;
Heretanla avenue may be reduced, by
leaving as a parked space for the
present room for a future second
- street car track thus cutting down
the expense both to the city and to
the property owners w ho must pay
about 75 .per cent of It was placed
before the Ad Club at Its weekly lunch
today.
, . Beretanla paving, the pros and cons
of the question which Is agitating a
large number of property owners and
has led- to charges of "obstruction
ism," was the chief topic before the
club and was debated for an interest
ing and lively half hour.
1 In an outline ot the policy of the
1 (oard of supervisors. Supervisor Lo
gan stated that he and Chairman Arn
old of the road eomraittee had dls
" cussed the proposition of leaving a
strip on the thoroughfare for future
use, should the Rapid Transit Com
pany decide to lay a double track on
that street
In his discussloa Logan brought out
the fact that cheapness will not serve
on a heavy trafric street. He argued
that the thoroughfare would always
be used as a matn artery to certain
sections of the city, and if heavy pave
ment was not put in, in a short time
the city would have to pay a large
sum. for, repairs, i '
Judge Ashford said that he was not
an "obstructionist," but he does be
lieve that the people should refuse to
pay for what he termed an "artillery
, road," one that would more than an
swer the needs of the residents living
on that street He suggested that the
frontage tax be applied to zones in
stead of front foot basis.
Judge Ash ford said that the unusu-
ally heavy character of the paving
plapned is necessary only for heavy
tnicks. and drays, and - that the resi-
dents "should not pay - for benefits
: to "a special interest the Graying
companies." v
W.! L. Howard talked fot some
time on Che laws of Hawaii, saying
mat tne people snouid te asnamea 01
me present Bystm ot laws, lie spokei
afsome lengm on. me mnentea.rignt
01 me past ages, ana me Angio-saxon
. laws that bad been sent down. In
diicusiing the Beretanla street pro
ject, he said that he objects to pav-
ing if the pipes for water and gas are
not laid before the project begins, and
he also objects to an "artillery road"
Jor. draying Interests to use.
Y Worth Aiken of Maui, who recently
Vfeturned from the mainland, told of
many incidents c his trip, and ven
tured the statement that Hawaiian mu
sic and near-Hawaiian music have
done much to boost for Hawaii. Aiken
m rtrr;.! k " Zv rV
said that he had called on many trans -
portatlon men In the East and all had
said that It Is not advertising but ac
commodations which are needed in
Honolulu. He also boosted mainland
ad clubs. : .
NETS BIG PROFIT
CAssoeUted Vtt by Federal Wirrlcas) ,
SAN FRANCISCO, CaU De. 13.
The Standard Oil Company has pur
phased the ship John Ena for $375,000.
When Informed of the sale today of
the American 6hip John Ena, now
d.'scha'rging a nitrate cargo here, to
the Standard Oil Company for $375,
000,' Captain M. A. Madsen, who own
ed an interest in the vessel at that
time, said she was sold last February
by the San -Francisco Shipping Com
pany (A. Lcrenlzen) to Hind. Rolph
& Company . for $180,000. Today's
sale means Hind, Rolph & Company
have moTe than doubled their money
on her in 10 months. -
;Grand Jury Asks
Qray Reinstated
. 4. j
Because the grand jury did not
una trie evidence against Jesse
Gray, police officer at Wahiaw a.
sufficient, the c'vil service com-
mission has been.asked to rein- i
state him.
Cry was discharged by the
commission, charged with acceVt-
ing a bribe from Chang Chau.
The grand jury in its letter to
the .-ommission said that the
evidence given the commission
- was conflicting, and that Chang
was a person of disrepute while
Cray has the confidence of the
officers of Sehofield Barracks.
Regardless of this letter ffora
f the grand jury, however, the com-
mission voted not to roinstato
tJray.
tttt ft. t t t t t t 1 1
SHIP JOHN ENA
NEW YORK STOCK
MARKET TODAY j
Yester
Today. day.
Miasa uoia ........... i' j
American -Smelter . . . 110' 2
American Sugar Rfg. . . 1138
American Tel. and Tel.. 126 :
Anaconda Copper 91 H
Atchison' . . . . . .. . ... ..' 104? ;
Baldwin Loco. .... ..... 75
Baltimore & Obis 85 ;
Bethlehem Steel ....... 590 '
Calif. Petroleum ....... 24'4
Canadian Pacific ....... 166' 4
C M. A St. P. (St. Paul) 92' 2
Colo. Fuel & Iron.....'.. 51 U
Crucitle Steel ......... 77', 2
Erie Common ......... 3634
General Electric ....... 1762
12' 4
108
112a
1252
87', '2
1031-i
74V4
84 :
599
22
164'.
-.9H4
.
75.
35'.
2 174
r. J . . i .
General Motors . . . ..
Great Northern Pfd.
II37
120'4:
52f,
8034
IO6V4
56',
Z0
98'.
118
1995V
1451,
1197,
12Ha
neu
102?,
.58U
Inter. Harv N. J... ..
Kennecott Copper ... ,
Lehigh R. R. . .......
New York Central...
Pennsylvania ........
Ray Ccnsol. . . , ......
Southern Pacific
Studebaker ..........
Texas Oil
Union Pacific ...
U. S. Steel..........:
U. S. Steel Pfd ;
Utah
Western Union ......
Westlnghouse -Bid.
tEx-dlvldand.
120
51U
80U
106'4
58
298
96T,
117
196'2
-1424
118U
121
114
10O
56 U4
tUnquotad.
OFFICER SHOOTS
DRUNK ASSAILANT
Lieut. Dexter C. Rumsey, 4 th Cav
alry, Schoficld Barracks, shot and
seriously wounded Pvt. Christ Johns,
formerly of the same regiment, on
the night of Thanksgiving Day. Jonas
is said to be a full-blooded ;Choctaw
Indian and it is alleged that he was
drunk on the night of the shooting.
No official word of the affair, has
been received as yet at army head-J
quarters in this city and officers there
had not heard of it until today.
According to the story that comes
from Sehofield. Johns entered the din
ing room of .the Rumsey house and
attacked Rumsey with a heavy iron
bar. The lieutenant fired one ehpt
with ; a 32-caliber pistol, which took
effect on the soldier: . - ;
Mrs. Rumsey had already; made
plans to sail for the mainland on the
followine dav and it was dferlderi not
to ret thft inrldint IntPrfpre with these
. plans
Johns, who is a member of the 1st
Field Artillery, Is still in the laospiUl
as a result of- the shooting,
PAYMASTER BACK
4 '":
' FROr.l OIG SCHOOL
"It was just like a real school.
said Paymaster C. D. Bishop of the
territorial naval militia who returned
la8t nI?ht from the Paymaster's school
1 .
Ob aouiU6WU, kJ. j. IIC BIUU1CU BUU
recited from 9. o'clock in the morning
until 4; SO o'clock in the afternoon."
Bishop took both the course in
accounting and in disbursing, the two
courses given by the school. He gays
that the fact was continually im
pressed on students there that they
were net representing any one organ
iaztion, but the navy as a whole; and
that they should train to be able to
take stations in the navy should need
for it nrise. . i
One of the things In which Bishop
was' interested at the national capital
was the recruiting station for guards
men which the District of Columbia
has established. This station is kept
open continually and works on the
same lines as a regular army recruit
ing station. It sent a contingent to
Mexico lor border duty in November.
Business is ?ood throughout ' the
East, says the paymaster, and people
are preparing tor a big Christmas. ..."
TO KILL KOREAN
That the wound on the right hand
of Yee Yo Keuk, Korean bandit now
on trial tor his life, was inflicted when
he jammed a pistol through a window
to shoot Chee Won Yer, a fellow coun
tryman, was the story the jlesperado
told Shin Shi I'hoon at 4 o'clock on
l. m -v t m
me morung oi LccniDer last year.
aecorain-? 10 leaumony given oy. me
latter in Circuit Judge Ashfords court
today.
Shin Shi Chocn also testified that
on the night before the murder Yee Yo!
Keuk came to his house on Punch-1
uu vt 1 mj n c aim uuiauucu ovuiciuiu
to eat. saying he was going out "to
kill Ch?e Won Yer." I
; Other witnesses examined today
were Detective Sergt. John Kellett,
Hang Moon Kee, Chang Won Do, Tv
rakawa, K, Mitsuka, Yokagawa, ; Soga
wa and Suino Tome. Tarakawa testi
fied that on the morning of the murder
he heard three shots fired and; look
ing out of a window, saw a man run
by who looked considerably like the
Korean. Furth t trial of the case will
be had :tt S:?,i o'chtek ttuiorrov uioriw
ing. ...
Kn-1 rnnt A tntvi inrl oAm .tM
SAID VMS GOING
Late News
NEW KING FOP. POLAND BEING CONSIDERED -
WARSAW, Poland, Dec. 13. Archduke Charles Stephen of Austria has
been selected a regent of Poland, with the prospect that at the election to
be held he will be named king. He is a cousin of he late Emperor Fran
cis Joseph and -anks as a commander in the Austrian' navy.
. FRANCE TO MAKE PROHIBITION MOVE STRONGER
PARIS, France. Dec. 13. Premier Anstide Brianl announced today that
the ministry has decided to ask the French larliament to enact legislation
providing for further restriction on the consumption of alcoholic beverages
in France. '.' i .
GEN. JOFFRE BECOMES FRENCH WAR COUNSEL
'PARIS, France, Det. 13. In conformity with the change In active com
mand of the French armies. President Poincare today signed a decree desig
nating Joffre commander-inhie.f of t he French armies, with the duty of
being technical counsel to the government regarding the direction of the
war. .
IMMIGRATION BILL AMENDMENT HITS WARRIORS
WASHINGTON, D C, Dec. 13 The amendment adopted by the sen
ate yesterday to the. immigration bill will bar from returning to the United
States thousands of aliens who went to their European homes to fight. The
senate today rejected an amendment offered by Senator Poindexter to deny
admission to persons ineligible for citizenship in the United States, Sen
' ator Phelan's amendment to exclude woman unmarried according to the
American law, where the men ot the same race are excluded, was defeated.
This amendment was aimed at the "picture brides" coming from Japan to
the United States. . '
MAY BE DISQUALIFIED IN KUHlO'S.CASE
Calling into conference this afternoon counsel it; the suit brought by
Delegate Kuhio to break the trust in which the property of Queen Liliuo
kalani is held. Circuit Judge J. L. Coke explained that, whtle in Washing
ten recently, he advised CTie" delegats in the matter f a cablegram urging
him to return to Hawaii to take care of his interests in the case. The
judge further said he was informed the delegate had indorsed him for the
circuit court bench, "I told counsel these things in case there is a dispo
sition to question my. qualification to hear the case' the judge added
WILL APPOINT THREE NEW WHARFINGERS 1 -
Decision to appoint wharfingers at Pukoe. Molokai; Waikane, Oalni,
and Hookena, Hawaii, was reached this afternoon by the board of harbor
commisBoners. The board refused the requesf of J. S. Taylor to build a
small freight warehouse on the Waikane landing, Windward Oahu. A re
port from a cammittee of the board, recommending the installation of a
six-inch oil pipe line to connect with t he oil tanks from Pier 16, was also
passed. The board voted to- award J. C, Foss, Jr., the job of constructing
a tower' for the Kihei range lights, Kihei, Maui.
T. K. K. RAISES ITS PASSENGER RATES
An increase of $23 In the first-cabin passenger rate from Honolulu to
Hongkong on' all T. K. K. steamers has been put Into effect, it was learned
this afternoon from Castle & Cooke's s hipping department. The new first
cabin one-way fare from this port to Hongkong . on the Shinyo, Tenyo,
Korea and Siberia is now $200, against the old rate of $175. On the slower
liners,' the Persia and Nippon Maru, the new. rate from Honolulu to Hong
kong and Manila is $180, a jump of $20 above the old fare, which was $160.
To Yokohama all rates are the same as before; There has been no raise in
the steerage fare, either. The Pacific Mail' has sent, up its rates corre
spondingly to the-T. -K. K but the China Mail .has ndt. raised.
PROTEST AGAINST KAPAA SUGAR CO.
Vigorous protest against a condition that exists at Kauai, where he
claims the Kapaa Sugar Company Is not living up to 'Its license agreement
of carrying freight for Kapaa merchants, was made today by James T.
Wakefield, commissioner, at the harbor uoard meeting.
'Why doesn't the governor get busy on this. hing?. said Wakefield,
when the question came up. "The company is breaking Its agreement
with the territory every day of the week, and the whole thing is wrong. It
seems to me a case of where the authorities haven't enough courage . to
.enforce the agreement. What's the good of the territory entering Into an
agreement if the agreement is not to be enforced?" j
It was pointed out at the meeting that if the company hauls freight
for Kapaa merchants It Is coming under the regulations of a common ca
rter as provided by the Interstate Commerce Commission. The matter
was dropped temporarily to be taken up later in the session when the li
cense had been examined.
CHAMBER OF COMMERCE MAY HANDLE' CARNIVAL
At a meeting this arternoon of tne directors .of the Chamber of Com
taerce the foljowing were appointed as members cf the army and navy com
mittee: E. I. Spalding, chairman; A. Gartley and J. D. Dougherty., A re
quest from George Angus of the Mid-Pacific Carnival, Ltd., for $o00 as a
donation towards the expenses of the February Carnival was taken under
advisement During the discussion A ngus announced that following the
Carnival the company would be dissolved and a recommendation made that
It be made a standing committee of the Chamber of Commerce. Arthur
Coyne was elected a nember of the chamber and J. E. Sheedy's resignation
was accepted. . :- ..
" Following the meeting 'ot the directors, which adjourned at 2:4
o'clock the special meeting of the members, was called to order to take
up the question of vice in Honalulu
ing snouia De called by the chamber,
The first speaker was W. R. Farrington. who reviewed the eenera! sit-'
uauon ana stated among other things that "a deplorable condition of vice
was rapidly being built up in Honolulu; despite the action of the grand
jufy in closing Iwilei, that would do credit to the dives of some of the
metropolises of the world." ; v
TO DRAW PLANS
OF STRUCTURES
FOR HEW PIERS
Boat 'Clubs Will Have Year of
Grace Before Moving From
; Present Locations
Charles R. Forbes, chairman of the
harbor commission, today ordered
work to begin on the drafting of
plan.8 for three buildings to cover the
three new piers, 8, 9 and 10, now
under construction at the foot of Fort
street
Forbes ordered the . plans so as to
provide for contracts by units for each
pier as it is the intention of the board
of harbor commissioners to build the
big shed on Pier 8 first of all.
The decision to bliild the Pier 8 shed
will be of interest to the boat clubs
as it oracticallv means thev will not
have to seek new quarters for at
least another year.
It was originally the intention of
the board to begin ork in a short
time on Pier 2, which would have
driven out the boat houses, but the
purpose Is now to transfer the money
on hand for this to the construction of
Pier S. -The work is slow at best and
the board feels that plans for the
shed should be drawn at once so as
to have things in readiness when the
contractor has completed the job gome
time before next summer.
William Furer of the public works
department will have charge of the
new plans.
At A
Glance
and to decide whether a public meet-1
TEMPLARS WILL
VISIT ISLANDS
CARNIVAL TIME
Big Pilgrimage From San Fran
cisco Is Planned For .
Great Northern
Honolulu is to be invaded at Car
nival time by a ioyous band of Knights
Templar from San Francisco, accord
ing to word . whica has Just been re
ceived in the form of a folder and itin
erary of the triri by John A. Palmer
of the Oahu tax office.
Members of the committee are Har
ry Maundrell. chairman; U B. Mc-
Murty and E. C. Hueter who will an-
i nounce the definite number to sail
within a few days. The vis.it of the
San Francisco men is at the invitation
of the Honolulu commandery No. 1,
K. T. -r
"We want you to take advantage
of this rare opportunity,' says the
committee, "and join the pilgrimage
to fascinating Hawaii, which at this
time is at the height of its attrac
tiveness. Honolulu, the pleasure lov
ing metropolis, is to be visited in the
midst of its very gayest season
never was the witchery of the islands
more alluring."
The party will come on the Great
Northern.
- '-
.i (Additional telegraph news on
I Pages 9 and 13.) - ' '
Villa Loot
lans
Tod
(Aorltfl Trer ? Fedrrml Wireless)
j . '
'
EL PASO, Texas, Dec. 13. A
letter rjrreivtr I here declares that
while Villa was occupying Chi-
huahua City he announced that
he intended to divfde his men
into groups of 23 each, distribute ,
them along the border and in the
interior, not far from the V. S.
line and loot property of mer-
chants.
-
, . .
Canadian Torpedo
Boat May Be Lost
(Associated Trsg bT.fVder! Wirele)
OTTAWA. Canada. Dec. 1.1 The
Dominion naval service fears that the
torpedo-boat Grilse with all hands has
been" lost while en route from Halifax
to Bermuda. Her last wireless mes
sage said "Sinking." Lieut. Walter
Wingate is in command and mere are
50 ethers of the officers and crew.
ROSSWliE
TEl)
. (Anoriated Tret by Fdeml H'irele))
PETROG RAD, Russia, Dec. 1 3 The
Russians today captured Teuton
trenches south of Agusualiaj In the
Trotos valley. The Teutons suffered
heavy losses in making counter-attacks.
'.: :
The Rumanians have taken the of
fensive south of .Mizil and Buzeu and
have captured a row of villages. Iter
on counter-attacks forced the Ruman
ians to -retire. V. . ' i,
RUMANIAN-RUSSIAN
CAVALRY TAKES STAND
(Associated Press "ot Fderl Wireless)
BERLIN, Germany, Dec. 13. The
Rumanian and. Russian cavalry de
tachments which have been endeavor
ing to hold the Teutons back while
the Infantry and artillery regiments
were retreating through Wallacbia,
made another attempted stand today,
and fighting is still going on in places.
The Teutons, however, took 4000 more
prisoners. .-- ; 1
Upon recommendation of Circuit
Judge Ashford, concurred In by Depu
ty City Attorney Will T, Carden, Gov
ernor Pinkham ha3 pardoned Rosle
iVilson,' former inmate of Iwilei, who
recently was sentenced to six months
i in the city jail. The woman was one
cf the 114 who received suspended sen
tences, but a few days later was ar
rested In a local hotel with a man
purporting to lie her husband. Sen
tence .vas then imiwsed by Judge Ash
ford. .'
Judge Ashfo.-u's letter to the gov
ernor, recommending a pardon, is as
follows: -. " ' . , '. -;'
"This woman, .having had hr sen
tence biispended. for a period of 13
month?, after a plea of guilty, was
brought into court a week after such
suspension, with proof of having re
verted to prostitution, and, upon mo
tion of the city nd county attorneyr I
then imposed upon her a sentence of
imprisonment in the ity and county
jail for the term of six months. She
and a man named Maurice Kurtz, who
was alio present in court, then claim
ed to oe man and wife, and both were
examined under oath, but their stories
differeJ so rariically that I - was un
able to credit them. '
'Sinc then, a document purporting
to be a marriage certificate, certifying
to their marriage in Minneapolis In
June, 1911, has been shown me. This
comes in the form of newly discovered
evidence, and n.ay be considered of
sufficient force lo support her request
for a pardon, which J understand has
Deen rna(;e
"I consider this woman's room as
being much preferable to her presence
in Hawaii. l it comitent' for the
executie in issuing a pardon being
granted to thia woman, it contain a
condition that -he efcall forthwith
leave the territory end not return
thereto tender pain of subjection - to
imprisonment tor the balance ot htr
term. .With s:ich condition I would
state that the granting of a pardon
would have my full approval.?-. .
The Wilson woman was to have left
Hawaii in the Uatsonla today. . '
- SUGAR :. ;''7; -'.
SAN FRANCISCO, Dec. 13. Sugarr
96 deg. test, 5.39 cents. Previous !
quotation, 5.52 cents.' 7
rON TRENCHES
PROPOSAL
FRENCH AND BRITISH PAPERS
VOICE OPPOSITION; ENTENTE
MAY GIVE RESPONSE TOMORROW
"OFFER WILL BE MET WITH GRIM CONTEMPT," SAYS
PARIS FIGARO WRITER LONDON COMMENT IS THAT
REJECTION WILL NOT .BE HASTY BUT ACCEPTANCE
CANNOT BE EXPECTED
;-V'-. , BULLETIN
(AsMeialixi Prw Srrvlc Federal WireUee)
BERLIN. Germany, Dec.M3. Despatches received here tayt that th
Greek army has begwn hostilities with the Allies. The Greek regulars and
the French are fighting, says an an nouncement of; the Overseas News
Agency, the battle being on the sou thwett of Safoniki. The Greek force
numbers 5000. The Greeks have captured Katerioa, and the Frtnch line is
.pierced.- - . , ; '' ' . ' : .
. WASHINGTON, D. C Dec. 13. P resident Wilson's course toward Gsrv
many's peace proposals is undecided. He is waiting receipt of th proffer
formally. Entente diplomats here await with undisguised apprehension
the course of the president in transmitting the proposals,' fearing that ha
will make some move toward media tick Such an offer would interfere
with the plans of the Allies. : ; ..: ;
PARIS, France, Dec. 13. The peace offer of the Teutons is rejected in
authoritative quarters. It is consid ered a repetition, in a more concrete
form, of a discussion which originated in BerUn 15 months ago. .
losat lies fron'i the AHietl ((MintrieH mTivtMl today iu!i-ate that
he itKsibility of their arreptiti': jteace teniiH as rojK)sol by (lerjnanv
vestcrday is hliht. While the Teuton proposals may not W turned
down. immediately, they are not likely to pt favorable eousideratioi
bv the two Allies who uiv dirtH'tin; the war IJritain and. France.
(AssociU rms 8rrlr bj- Federal Winleea)
TAUIS, Fi-am-e, Ihv. 'l.'!. Tlie French ncwspajiers a;-e uuaui
liious in their deelarat Ion that the offer of the Teutons to negotiate
for ieace is an admission that from the Teuton standpoint the situa
tion is gettiti critical, and that the (lennan chancellor wants a way
out before it is too latev
The Petit Journal.Avluch has an enormous circulation, Kays:
"This is a treacherous-.move, inspired by the approaeh of Christ
mas or by something else than a genuine desire for. peace, (lerniany
knows it cannot win. The plan is
The Paris Matin charac
chancellor's proposal in the'
Alfi-ed .Capus, the noted FithcU writer, commenting iiHhti Paris
Figaro, says: "The proposal will be met by us of the Kntente Allies
with prim contempt.. This maneuver is too cliunsy to Ix? worthy even
of indignation." - ; i .'. ' -v
TOKIO, Japan. Dec. l.'J. PryKsals for ieace as voiced by. the
Allies continue to cause violent disorders in stocks. The slump is o
fcevere that the exchange is still closed today.
British Press Indicates Opposition
LOXDOX, Eng.. Dec. Pritains attitude toward the Teuton
Ieace proposals is likely o be voiceil in the house of commons tomor
row. Already' the occasion has been set aside fof an announcement
by the new premier, David Lloyd-George, who was to have made his
initial statement on behalf of the new ministrj. Pince this was ar
ranged for, the Teuton proposal has been made, which may cause a
change in the tenor of the premier's speech. It is thoaght likely that
he will outline Ifritain's attitude toward the peace offer if time er-
mits a consultation of Pritain and her allies on the terms Germany is
suggest ing. : ;-:-;..7;"v: '
If the press correctly interprets official opinion, a little time wiil
te taken in considering (iermany's move, inasmuch as moderate opin
ion does not favor too hasty a reject ion. -
The Wndon Times ?ays: "The Allies .: must reject the offer so
long as the basis projosed is the triumph of might and not right."
The semi-official Westminster Gazette says: . "Germany is aware
that the war is producing unrest among the neutrals and it is to them
rather than to us that Germany is appealing."
Exact Peace Terms Not Communicated
PFPLIX, Germany, pec. 1". The conditions on which Germany
and the other Central Powers are ready to make terms are ready to
be communicated to the FJntente Powers if the offer fall on resins
ive ears. : . - ' .'
Press opinion upholds the move of the Teutons. The Germania'
(Catholic) approves the peace overtures. The Lokal Aiuxeiger lay
stress on the offer as an Judication of strength but does not predict
the outcome. : ' ' , '
MISS CHANN0N TO
HEAD LOCAL Y. VY.
T ON FEBRUARY 1
SIIks Crace Channon,- general secre
tary of the Ixmg Beach Y. V. C. A.,
will become the general secretary of
the local association on February 1
succeeding Miss Heien Salisbury of
California, who has been acting gen
eral secretary In Honolulu for the
past two months. Miss Cbannon is
well known in association work, having-
been secretary jss Long Beach,
California, for three years. The an
nouncement of the appointment was
made this morning by Mfcis. Salis
bury.'. -: . ' ' .. '
Miss Channon has - made a great
success in membership, work on the
mainland, and in her three years of
office the Long Beach association has
grown by leaps and bounds. She has
also spent some time in the exten
sion department of various associa
tions. Miss Salisbury said this aft
eraoon that the local association is to
be' complimented on obtaining such
an able worker. Miss Salisbury Is
connected with the field department
of the association, and will return to
this work some time in February.
doomed."
racteri.es the jieace notes and the (Jermau
le'lJeichstag as "mere talk." 7
F. A. SCHAEFER & CO.
CONSIDERIfiG CLOSING
- LIQUOR DEPARTMENT
That F. A. Schaefer & Co.. 55 Mer
chant street, Is contemplating goln?
f1tt f f f rlA 1firfA 1 ulnaca nArarea If
has become impossible to obtain Euro- '
pean supplies,: was confirmed today
at the office of the company, althocgh
no definite action has yet been taken.
Whether It wfj give tip that depart
ment will probably be decided soma
time this week or the first of next. It
was said. . .
KING'S JAPANESE COOK '
GOES TO CIRCUIT COURT;
' J. YcmhL the Japanese cook of Mrs.
George W. R. King, who is alleged
to have struck her in her . Kai
mukl home. last Thursday, was partial
ly tried in police court this morning
and committed to , the circuit, court
when counsel for the defense walvci
further hearing. The defendant tzs
been released, oa'.JISd baIL Mrz.
King was the only witness exarr.r. :
and she told of the Japanese ?r"
Ing her without rrovoct:?-;.
