AYE ye or~du uye UPsy
H of --t M&rA UiN
yetl If not-bete do t -eees
today. Yea won't want to amss
yr espy of te Amette Keller- -
N mO 3705 . -C DG OCEYE16 CEN
NO. 3705. - WEATHER: COLDER. WASHINGTON, D. C., WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 13, 1916. ON4E CENTf
CARRANZA BALKS
AT BORDER PACT
Despite Story of Approval.
Rumor to Comtrary
Reaches Capital.
Information reached Washington.
late Yesterday that despite earlier in
formation sent members of the Amer
ean-Mexican Joint Commission. Gen.
Carranza has refused to sign the pro
teel drawn up by the comumimonn at
Atlantft City.
80eretary of 'the Interior Lane.
-bantman of the American section of
the commisuion, would make no com
ment on that information. but an
Neunced that a meeting preliminary to
the regular resumption of conferenoes
by the commission. would be held in
Philadelphia. December 1.
It wag announced alse that Alberto
J. Pant, who carried the protocol to
Gen. Carranza for his approval or re
Jection, will arrive tonight.
The announcement of Mr. Lane follows:
"Word has been received from the
Mexican commissioners that Senor Paul,I
who went to Mexico City to submit the
protocol of agreement to the first chief.
will arrive in New York an Wednesday
evening. Mr. Pani brings with him the
decision of the first chief with reference
to the protocol. The Mexican commis
stoners desire to spend some time in con
ference with Mr. Lane with reference to
the situation and have proposed to the
American commissioners that a pre
lIminary conference be held In' Phil
adelphia on Monday next. December I&.
at which time the Mexican commissioners
will submit to their American colleagues
the full text of the comments of (he first
chief on the proposed agreement.
"It is also expected that at this con
rence a plan will be drawn up for the
f,,rther deliberation of the commission.
N' d inite decision has been reached as
to where the commission will hold its
'essions. as the Philadelphia session will
os in the nature of a preliminary
meeting
QA1RL DEGLARES WOMAN
TAUiHT HER TO STEAL
ourteen-Year-Old Miss Arrested After
$1200 Theft.
tcial t. The Washington Held.
Ne York. l3e.. 12.-Ruth Howard, 24
'ers: old. who said she was a cabaret
*.rformi-r and her home was ]in Kansas
>1y, was arrested last night at the Ho
- x on the charge of grand larceny
n'Id ,f having harbored a 14-year-old girl
'or immoral purposes. -4
Trhe chiild. Gertrude Hilton. was arrest
1 in a furnished room. She signed a
, af. ion. i.holIiing the charge against
:ho Howard woman. and declared also
th 't she ld taught hr how to rob men.
The ",rand tir-niy 'harge was made
, Richard Verbugae. a captain in the
Netherlands ar wn.ho lived at the io
tel Wolcott until tecember 9, when he
r-urned to his nativ country. Accord
in; 1, the story he told t" the police.
P h Ii ard and for other girls, one
of v.hoin was Gertrude. went with him
fir an a- to ride through the park, and
'a soner robbed him of $1.200.
NEW HOTEL FOR GOTRAJ.
N. Yor. Dc. 12- New York is to
ht another splendid hotel, one of a
sa- r rooms and all of the features
I ,ih make up the modern, efficient
avansary. Joseph J. Lannin. pro
e- of I he Garden City Hotel. ant
t: er kn.own as the former ,wner of the
-,.lliI oston Red Sox. is to bie the
ui1ler. owner and proprietor. For the
e hes purchased y.-sterday the north
* e "t ~rncr of S-venth avenue and
$250,COO PAINTING SOLD.
Iondon. Dec. L.-it L rumored in art
ireles that a Racchanalian scene, a land
scape by Giovanni Bellini. has been sold
in an American.
In recent years it has been in posses
sion of the tuke of Northumberland.
Not-.ing definite is known as to the price.
nomething like M250.(0 was offered a few
years ago and refused. The picture was
one of four celebrated works of the Lu
dovici Palace.
YOUNG THAW TO JOIN FLYERS.
New York. Dec. 12.-Alexander Blair
Thaw, younger brother of Lieut. William
Thaw, of the French Flying Corps. has
gone to France. where he will take a
military pilot's license test at the Buc
aviation field near Paris. after which he
will probably join his brother at the
front. His mother. Mrs. Benjamin Thaw,
of Pittsburgh. went abroad with him.
FOUR KT.lED BY RAIDERS.
London. Dec. 12.-One man and three
women killed and thirty-seven persons
ON injured, including seven children, was
the total casualty list from the last Ger
man air raid of November 27. as made
public today by Gen. French.
It was on this occasion that British
flyers bagged two of the Zeppelins
which made the attack.
REIBIAM SN0T DOWN.
.Amsterdam. Dec. 12.-KIlling of sixteen
Belgians in a riot a~t Turcoing, Belgiunm
one to German deportations, was re
Pornted by the newspaper Echo de Beige
today.
A German soldier, who struck a Bel
gian with the butt of his gun. was at
tacked by the crowd and the German
toops in charge of the deportations re
sponded with a fusillade.
U.S8. EEARL CROP SXAT.
New York, Dec. l2.-This year's yield
of American pearls Is about one-third
that of normal sean., according to
pearl buyers who have returned fromt the
fleking camps along the Mimssippi, Illi
not., Wabash and other rivers, A late
spring and high water are reeponsible for
the smail crop.
Beltimnore, Dee. 12.-Expoeure and shock
Sfrom havig falsen Into the water near
the Recreation Pier on two successive
days last we~cased the death this
smeran at a. ess H espiltal of WDI
Gem keis a mewama
How Sary, Campaign
h Winning its Way
Developments yesterday in the
movement for higher salaries for
government employes:
1. President Wilson and Cabinet
offieers invited to jddress mass
meeting to brisf ab t higher sal
arIes.
2. Senator Penrose Introduced a
bill to Increase the salaries of all
government workers.
3. A. F. of L. will submit a bill
providing for a 33 1-3 per cent
graded increase for all employes of
the government and District of
Columbia.
4. Senators Underwood and Porn
erene join Senators who favor in
creased wages.'
6 Rev. D. H. Martin, of the
Dumbarton Avenue M. E. Church.
Indorses The Herald movement
for higher salaries.
U.S. TAKES HAND
Gets Paper Makers and Con
sumers to Confer.
Under the auspices of the Fedel Trade
Commission, newspaper publishers, news
print paper manufacturers and jobbers
yesterday entered into an agreement to
arbitrate their differences and attempt
to devise a system under which there
can be an equitable distribution of the
supply of paper.
Representatives of each branch of the
producing and consuming sides of the
industry will hold - corferences here on
Friday and formulate tentative plans. On
Saturday a committee composed of rep
resentatives from each group will meet
at the New Willard Hotel with the Fed
eral Trade Commission and the tentative
plans will be whipped into shape with
the result, in the opinion of members of
the Commission. that an arrangement for
uninterrupted supply of paper for all
publishers will be arrived at In less than
thirty days.
An attempt on the part of Commissioner
Davies to have the news print manu
facturera hold all pending contracts In
status quo pending the outcome of the
negotiations failed. Timothy T. An&
berry, counsel for the manufacturers, said
they could not make such an agreement.
as business deals which have been started
must be carried out. lie said, however,
that the manufacturers will act In good
faith and will not make any special ef
forts to close new business on the pre*
ent basis.
J. B. Potter. counsel for the News 1-1W
Manufacturers' Association. last night
telegraphed every paper manufacturer in
North America either to come or to be
represented at the conference. Repre
sentatives of publishers and jobbers like
CONTINUED ON PAGE SIX.
DOES HIS CHRISTMAS
EVICTING TOO EARLY
Landlord Foiled by Policeman Who
Finds Woman in Distress.
SpoiaI to The Washingteo Hersid.
New York, Dec. 12.-This Is a Christmas
story.
Early this morning, standing in the
rain beside a pile of cheap furniture
in West OneHundred and Thirty-second
street. Policeman Reltenberger saw an:
old woman, thinly clad. Close to her,
whining with the cold, cowered a little
back and white dog.
She told the policeman she was Mrs.
Julia Hanlon..
"t'ye been living in there with my
husband. Patrick. and my 16-year-olo
boy. My husband disappeared several
days ago. I haven't been able to pay the
rent. They've put - ne out-me and Butts."
The little dog I oked up and crouched
closer.
Reitenberger interviewed the neighbors.
Satisfied that Mrs. Hanlon was In no
condition to take care of herself and
unable to find the son, he took her to
the station, the little dog following.
Today Mrs. Hanlon is being cared for
in Bellevue Hospital. Butts Is at the
station house.
EDB SEF OF FI.X ACTOR.
New York. Dec. 12.-Every time August
Hildebrand, 9 years old, who lives in Jer
sey City, has had a spare nickel in the
last few months he' would hustle to the
movie show where cowboys were thrown
on the screen. For August's dad, Albert
Hildebrand. wrote to him last August
from New Orleans:
"Your pop Is now a movie actor. I
am starting for California to take part
in cowboy scenes. Watch for me on the
screens."
Mrs. Hildebrand put the letter In evi
dence yesterday to prove lar husband
had deserted her.
RS, PIKE TO BEL-VUE.
New York. Dec. 12.-Mrs. Gertrude Pike,
who several days ago disappeared from
a sanatorium at Stamford, Conn., applied
to Justice Greenbaum. In the Supreme
Court, today to have her husband, Arthur
E. Pikg, a cotton broker, enjoined from
sending her back to the Institution.
Mrs. Pike insisted that she was not
menially incompetent and agreed to go to
Bellevue for observation.
S'j DIED TROF!CAL DIREARR
New York, Dec. 12.-Maj. Gen. William
C. Gorgas, U. S. A., returned yesterday
with five members of the Internationat
Health Commission on the steamship
Vasari from a two-month trip up the
Amazon and in Nortnern Brasil, where
they stu~died yellow fever and other
tropical diseases.
$75,000 FIRE IN NERRTX*C.
Merrimac, Mass.. Dec. 12-Several fam
ilies fied from their homes and the busi
ness section of the town was threatened
by a firW'which destroyed several build
ings and caused $15,000 loss here early
today.
Help had to be sumt~ned from By
ASK PRESIDENT
TO AID EMPLOYES
Executive Will Be Invited tc
Address Salary Mass Meet
ing on December 20.
President Wilson heads the list 01
speakers who will be invited to address
a mass meeting at National Rifles Arm
ory, Wednesday. December 20, at whic
the matter of graoting an Increase in
salaries for government employees will
be discussed.
Members of Congress, cabinet membeus
and representative citizens will be in
vited to speak. The meeting will be held
under the direction of the Federal Em
ployees' Union.
The government clerks and employes
lathe lower gradek were gratified yeeter
at the news that a horizontal in
crease has been recommended for all
employes receiving less than $1,00 a year.
Efforts of advocates of higher wages
will now be centered on the Nolan bill
and upon the Senate. A majority of the
members, canvassed by the Washington
Herald have already said that some in
crease In salary for the low priced gov
ernment employe is imperative.
While a great many member, of the
Senate are opposed to the Nolan 83.00
a day minimum wage bill they feel that
the graded increase should be larger than
that provided by the House Committee
on Appropriations. This increase of 10
per cent it? the salaries of all employes
receiving less than $1,200 a year and 5 per
cent for employes between 31,200 and
$1,800 grade Is deemed inadequate.
Petitions sent to member& of the House
Committee on Appropriations yesterday
criticized the Increase In pay recommend
ed by the Committee. The petition signed
by 200 employes of the District reads:
"We are exceedingly grateful to Con
dess for the consideration that has
been given. We feel, however. that if
Congress gives due consideration to the
problem of the underpaid employes i1
will recognize the inequalities of the ad
CONTINUED ON PAGE SEV1y
I KILLED, 10 INIURED,
CITY'S TRAfFIC TOLL
Street Car and Automobile Collisions
Numerous-One Arrest Made.
One man killed, tea injured and one
arrest made, was the teoord of thirteen
automobile and street car accidents in
Washington yesterday.
3dmund J. Nopbr, 61 years 9N, was
kille wheea wa.jLrook by a. auto
mobile at P01msr~v.Ai avenus and sixth
street, sentheast. He lived with his son.
Albert Soper, at U4 Park plams north
west. The police arrested Frank A.
Burns. Jr. Burns is being held awaiting
the action of the grand jury. He lives
at 748 Seventh street southeast and was
driving an automobile belonging to John
J. Sullivan.
Alfred H. Lewis. 1407 Sixth street north
west, was taken to Emergency Hospital
suffering from injuries sustained in a
rollision between his bicycle and an au
tomobile driven by Alfred Lewis, 1816 a
street northwest.
Edward F. Cassildy, 212 NInth street
southeast, was injured when the street
car in which he was riding collided with
a car at Pennsylvania avenue and Eighth
street southeast.
C. A. Tolson. a motorman, was injured
by flying glass when his car hit a deliv
Pry wagon driven by Aloygigs Brown and
George Holland, colored, at Fifty-second
street and Dean avenue northeast. Both
men on the wagon were injured.
A collision between a wagon and an au
tomobile truck on Sixth street at B
treet northeast, resulted in the injury
of three men. Robert Fontroy and Rich
ard Ross, colored, who were on the
wagon, and Al Dotson. operator of the
truck.
HUSBAND'S LOVE ABSENT.
Reading, Pa., Dec. l-The novel de
fense that there was no affection between
the plaintiff and her husband that might
be stolen. is put up In the $5,000 alienation
suit of Mrs. Hattie Rhoda against Mary
W. Wisler, both well-known Reading
women, in an afidavit filed by the de
fendant In court here.
Mrs. Rhoda charges Mrs. Wisler with
having stolen the affections of her hus
band, Harry Rhoda, The defendant says
the truth of the matter in that the plain
tiff and her husband were on the outs.
ACMRON GETS LIFE TERM.
New York, Dec. 12.-Charles E. Ackron,
48 years old, of Brooklyn, once the pro
prietor of the notorious Tivoli Hall Man
hattan, was sentenced to life imprison
ment In Sing Sing as a fourth offender
by County Judge Dike, in Brooklyn to
day.
District Attorney Lewis, of Brooklyn,
bad Ackron indicted on complaints from
victims that Ackron had swindled them
by inducing them to purchase victrolas.
191
ART CAL
I~HOGRAPHED I
Posed for
ANNETTE KEl
Who Appears Next Week at
"A DAUGHTER 0F
With Every
NEXT SUN DA'
Benter -order now -
faster than eyer heazt Sund.
GERMAN
PLEA P
AMER
PEACE DEPENDS
ON ATTITUDE OF
UNITED STATES
War May Be Ended if Presi
dent Makes Strong and
Definite Plea.
The scales of peace or war have
been placed in the hands of Presi
dent Wilson. according to the belief
in German circles here. In these
quarters last night it was thoughtl
these scales were so evenly balanced
that they would tip to that side on
which the President throws the weight
of his influence.
No event since the declaration of
war in 1914 has stirred Washington
so profoundly as the news that the
German Chancellor had submitted a
formal offer to the allied govern
ments to discuss peace. Two ques
lions were uppermost in the minds of
every one in official life. The first
one was, what are Germany's terms of
peace? And the second, to what ex
tent will the President bring pressure
to bear to induce an acceptance of
the German offer?
PRESIDENT DEEPLY INTERESTED
The President showed the deepest
interest in the news. In the ab
sence of official information he gave
orders that the press wireless dis
patches from Berlin be brought to
him as fast as they were received.
He remained in the Executive Office
until late reading these reports.
. At the White House last night it
was stated unofficially that the Presi
dent was anxious that the United
States should play a greater part than
that of mere messenger. It was said
that the German offer furnished the
opportunity which he had been seek
ing for months. It was declared to
be certain that the earnest desire ofI
this government for early peace would
be made known to the belligerents in
the near future, even if such a com
munication does not actually accom
pany the note conveying Germany's
ofer to the allies.
Tirascript Not Recesved.
As regards Germany's peace terms, It
was authoritatively stated that up to a
late hour last night no official transcript
of them had been received from Berlin.
eithsr at the German Embassy or at the
State Department. Early reports in
dicating that Germany had officially
indicated her willingness to make peace
on a basis of the restoration of Belgium
and Northern France, and a guarantee
of the independence of Poland and
Lithuania. leaving the status of the Bal
kana to be determined by the conference,
were dismissed at the German Embassy
as pure speculation.
The belief at the Embassy was that the
German Chancellor had purposely
omitted any definition of the terms in
order to make it easier for the allies to
accept the offer. The belief was ex
pressed that if the allies will agree mere
ly to discuss the terms. a basis of settle
ment can be arranged and the war uil
come to an end.
Germany's action was carefully timed.
It was pointed out last night that it came
shortly after the speech by Lord Derby.
who is still a member of the British gov
ernmcnt, in which he declared that thc i
allies were ready to listen to proposals.
In view of that speech, it was said. toe
allies could not now refuse with any good
grace to lister to a formal offer such as
that which is now on its way to Presi
dent Wilson to be transmitted to Great
Britain, France. Russia. Belgium. Serbla.
Rumamia and Japan. These are the
countries in which -the Unlted States rep
resents not only Germany. but also
Austria -Hungary.
Another indication of the timelines4 of!
the proposA pointed out last night was
the fact that there is now no fighting of
CONTINUED ON PAGE SIX.
7
ENDAR
9J 6 COLORS.
by
WERMANN
the Belasco Theater in
Copy of
('S HERALD
BIERADS will sell out
Y MAKES PEACE 0
RESENTED BY HOJ
ICA MAY END WOI
Peace Proposals Broached
To Neutrals and Holy See
Germany yesterday offered peace to the allies.
The imperial chancellor. Dr. von Bethmann-Hollweg. speaking
for the German Empire and its allies. Austria-Hungary. Bulgaria and
Turkey, announced in the Reichstag that he had given to the diplo
matic representatives of Spain. the United States and Switzerland a
joint note addressed to Germany's enemies, proposing to them to enter
into peace negotiatibns.
The chancellor did not announce the terms upon which Germany
and her allies will make peace. Nor are they contained in the note
he handed to the three neutral diplomats for transmission to the entente I
powers.
The only reference he made to them was that they had the object
of "guaranteeing the existence, honor and liberty of evolution" for
nations extending the offer and "are according to their firm belief,
an appropriate basis for the establishment of everlasting peace."
Simultaneously with the issuance of the note to the allies, Germany
sent a communication to Pope Benedict, through the German minister
to the Vatican, Dr. Otto von Muehlbach, notifying the pontiff of
Germany's peace move, eulogizing the Holy Father for his efforts in
behalf of peace during the last two years and expressing the confidence
that Germany's initiative "will find a friendly welcome on the part of
his holiness and that the work of peace can count upon precious
support of the Holy See."
Peace Overtures Welcomed
By Members of Congress
Leading American Statesmen Receive News of1
German Proposals with Gratefulness or Else
Decline to Talk.
Put the war In the eourt room. is the rst, member of 4;onunittee on rereign
cofemsch of Aericr opinion as repre-I lations-I do not believe any at the
sented In the following interviews: bellgerents are sincere in any proposals
they may make for restoration of peace.,
William Alden Smith, Republican. of course I favo- mediaton at the ear
member of Senate, member Committee Hest Poesible moment compatile with
on Foreign Relations: "I hope sincerely the dignity of the nation and the events
that the questions raised are at least Senator William J. Stone. Democrat.
worthy of some consideration by the bel- Missotri chairman of Conintt on For
ligerent powers, not necessarily with the eigo Relations-I am glad to see a
hope or view that the plan set forth move from either ide looking tow-trd
would in all Its details be acceptable, but peace and hope this -ne may lead to
with the view to transferring the con- somethingr.
troversy from the battlefield to the 1Henry Cabot Iodgs. Republican, la's.
forum. It Lis a well known fact that Pachusett s. senior mtinorit% mem'b-i or
efter the close of the Rusnuan-Japanese Senate Committee on Foreign Relations
war the conditions of peace were very Of course I o mnin d teon b interested In
far from agreeable to either country but the developments along this line in ru
-fter the representatives of Russia ad rope, but because (If m% connection with
Japan came together there was very, the foreign retior, s,f this government
little diculty in finally compromising Iit would be nanifest y itProper for me
their differences. to comment at thi c ime p
"Two of the roposals contained in the William ty o . tenatr Republican
dispatches impresS me very strongly with Idaho-I ao not i.e Stont this matter
their sense of justice and farneMss. The should b chmaen, on at gre t length.
restoration of Belgifum for the Belgians There I ons - isO iearicy in Some Of
will touch the heart of every American the exprseihs rnie on tloth sides that
while the propoetton to recognize the It is premacnur-, tlet any of these
Independence and sovereignty of old Pb-aoverturt e as the Hnsis fab the expression
land Indicates a somewhat belated but a eof opinion punliol t o.
nevertheless kindly purposa to give to Senator oieechr Underwood. Reemocrat.
thae heavily burdened people the rights Aibfcou-4re oIt . I nslv it-rely nope
which are properly theirs and the dib- e ful. a all Anojts-sng re, that li ar
erty for which they have prayed for a will son bea ver. I think had het
century. I like both of those proposi- leavthe afforis iin fI. hands of the Pres
lions and believe they will find ready re- ident and 1e hif 'etrmlne if we should
tponse from mankind generady. No pos- offer to medinto, and when.
"Thw hirm can come frota a free and Senator Willieah Hughes. Remocrat.
full discussion of the question of peace New Jorse-l hope that the terms of
tnd it is within the range of Possibility peace offered %,ilI form a satinfactory
that fundamental differences between therbasis for parley a least and that some
warring nations might be composed. thing definite may evetuate from the
Senator F. I. Simmons. of North ro-| ove made today at Berlin.
ira. Democrat, chairman Finance Coin- nOllie Jame, erocrat. Senator from
mittee-This is a very encouraging sign Kentucky-I think It would be wholly i
of peace, an object which we a' hope proper for me to discuss t he German
to see accomplished as soon as possible. IPeace terms. Our foreiti affairs are in
That the belligerents are ready to talk the hands of the President. I for one
peace is gratifying. When the nations! will not embarrass the Executive by the!
signify that they are ready for Peace Interpolation of my opinion At this time.
progress will be made toward the estab- Albert . d ummins. Republican. Sena
lshment of that Ideal condition.r tor fron Iowa-Itis agood sign ant
Senator Morris Sheppard. questaonI f ncerely hope that t hil lead to
TexasIt is most gratifying to see thissome definitl prorpect of peace. tr
hopeful sign for world pence. It ts cer-1 Senator William S. Kenyon. of Iowa-;
tau, that the President will act when he This srens something to wo tk on and
deems It wisest. mgit Is a good omen.
Warren 0. Harding. Republican, Sena- Senator Reed Smoot, Republican. Utah
tor f romn Ohio--I am highly gratified that 1-I do not think Great Britain will con-'
there is some prospect for peace and 1 sent at this time to the overtures for
Will be glad If the tew on which Peace peace on the basis propoeed and neither
is made shall Include an agreement for Ido I believe that she would welcome'
interantiopal disarmament. I believe our mediation at this time.
government should go stow in Is offers Senator Jacob H. Gallintero Republican
foeaiating. WhnteIain
formeialeader.-I indrse any effort that may
Senator Atlee Pomerene. io, Demo- be made to end the war.
rSenator Lee S. Overman. Democrat.
herth Carolina-The offer of Gfwl e .nr
:aifor peace at this time will no doubt n
tourage many to hope for an end of the
European struggle within a reasonable
oer meI
per s forhe stt suss a te hemanhi
ipeac rerso.bl oud orn whfirh aeoia
thenhandof Jame PreWswdn.or oe
willknot emhrslsh the Exte bywathe
intepates aofuatey decino atrmhny tie
rosAlert looksmmhat.thepuebli.Sen
tor from lwatus uo ath geodgno and
Ierey hope Uthatia wsill easdeto
some wdt maosec of theace.lse
Sntear.h Williamn wKenyon, ornewa
Ths beems othin~g thework naes
i s in odmen. m y ad mtra
w-ldo heoele ehn torearitain wialton
saet do thi tm th ~ theat o
eaeo here bts.I posed witd nthers
o Imievtath would w e ece
reiain hagt the tie.da maa
Senator Jaobn H.' Gallinger. R epubca
leat,.- sindorse aneot teht ma
Sento AteePoereeOhi, em- temae iternathoaeittar. h
_ _ Sienator lede. Ovman. Dmcral
North arolia-Th tofer ofta dGemany
ward ng peace. tIm aml noduet en
re an the hpefor judgent af the
esdtabis the uquo ates lmhisal
isreasonbegon nwihngt
FFER;
ZLWEG;
ULD WAR
REICHSTAG TOLD
HUMANITY MOVES
TEUTONS TO ACT
Imperial Chancellor Declares
Responsibility for Further
War Rests with Allies.
(or the Intereitlemsi News serviee.)
Berlin (via tayville wireless). Dec.
12.-Germany and her alies. Austria.
Hungary. Bulgaria and Turkey. w.
day took the first decisive step to
bring to an end the greatest and
bloodiest war in the history of the
world.
Direct appeal was made to the En
tente powers for a peace conference
through the United States. Spain.
Switzerland and the Vatican.
Chancellor von Bethmann-Hollweg.
in the crowded Reichstag. amidst
breathless silence, declared that the
German allies, conscious of their re
sponsibility before God and mankind.
had proposed to the entente powers to
enter into peace negotiations forth
with.
HOLLWEG'S SPEECH IN FULL
The Overseas News Agency issued
the following account of the Reich
stag session and of the chancellor's
speech:
Chancellor von Bethmann-Hollweg
today announced in the Reich
stag that Germany together with her
allies, "conscious of their responsi
bility before God, before our nation.
and before humanity, had p-posed
the ame sning to the hoei Ow
erg to enter Sio pesce negotiations.
Practically all m---ers of the
Parliament had followed the exiected
summons to the capital. A crowded
house thronged the galleries and list
ened in respectful silence when the
chancellor rose to begin his speech.
First he outlined the extraordinary
political situation and then insisting
upon achievements of the Central
Powers. made the announcement
which possibly may act as the turning
point in the war which for more than
two years has held the world under
its spell.
Chameellee outlines Ewents.
The chanceIlor said:
'The Iteichstag was not adjourned for
a longer period but was left to the dis
,r tion of the President to decide th*
f.rtunAte dNte for its next meeting. This
decision un- prompted by the hope that
soon happy events in the fieLd woul.d
be recorded-a hope which was fulfnlle
quicker almost than we had expecte&
'I sha:l he brief, for actions speak
for themselves.
"'Rumania entered Into the war In
order tI. roll up In the east our position
and that of our allies. At the sam
, Me, the grand offensive on the Somm
had the object of pIercinm our western
Iot. while the renewed Italian attack.
uere launched for the purpose of paral) z
in, Auhtria-Hungmry.
'The situation was serious. But wito
God's help our troops shaped the con
ditions so that they give us a securit
which is not only complete but stil
greatr than ever before.
"'The eastern front stands, not otnI,
stands, bu in spite of the Rumanian
campaign is fitted -:t with larger re
entIXTDF - -N PAGE FIX.
VON BERNSTORIFF lOPS
PEACE PLEA WILL AVAIL
German Ambassador Says Kaiser Does
Not Seek Conquest.
Ambassador von Bernstorif authoriamd
the following statement last night:
'I an very much gratified by the stes
taken by my government. and hope that
they will lead to peace. Even if they de
not they are proof that Germany. after
a vIctorious campaign, wants peas. aM
does not want to bear the respamnsinty
for the further suffering of snmand anG
loss of life and property.
"Germany wants peace and does net
desire conquest. I cannot say' anythta
about the terms."
RAIDER OFF 1ZIM.
Savannah. Gs .Dee. 12 -A Segal ute
less hperator reported today that Ms
caught a Ineissge last might frem time
British steanmer Ia Bianca to the Bet' i
statlon at Kingston. Jeimas.. mang
that she sighted a German cruiser ratert
Randav afternooni off the loe eoe* et
Florida. lonstltude 76.2 and itis U.K
The message warned all the a2UIG Mi.
ping against the rider.
Roone. 3ec 1:'.-Ele Us-met yest....
day received Prince and Priem Aniro
ptoncampagnt In private audimes.
|The Princess was Mi s agust Pros
tan Draper, of nests.. Uhe -e rememtly
married to Princes Bancampgat, who Is
ag elon of one of the elGasteniMes of
Mty a nom. M as ite
