-*r^' ^ -7^ ?a
.'' ' ' "* r - .. > . '< * , a
WEATHER. || OlY /> TOT"From Pre., to /W 1
Cloudy tonight and tomorrow, probably _^y I A . ? M . _^a ^a ^ . ^a a - - a A 1 IIWII i
now: little change In temperature: mod- M I ^^B IXa J^UWW fi /A fl .... . . ...
erate mostly B H 1 I^B B^w B y YY bgr^BT I YBf ^B^^ fl/l\n Within the Hour
Temperature for twenty-four hours end- ^g B B B B W^U B / B B^r B B I B B B B B \ B B jJl^^nl __
Ing p.m.: Highest, p.m. to- H I . B B Br rB Br B B B B B B B B M B B 4SSS3
day; lowest. 6 a.m. today. ^^k^B I J B B B WW B B B BBB BBBB w / ^w B B * B B [
on page I
' I |- * Ssora Net Clrealatloa. Moath of Rmabet,
CLOSING NEW YORK STOCKS PAGE 30. S w/ ,,,*? Dally Average. 7?.53Ti SaaAay, B8AS3.
No. 29,531. WASHINGTON, D. C., WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 13, 1916.-TWENTY-FOUR PAGES. ? ONE CENT.
PEOPLES OF E
SPURN IDEA
EXCEPT 0
Press and Prominent
Latest Move?Too
Tenders Oppo!
WOULD ACQUAINT
WITH BELI
Possibility of President Wilson I
London?British Cover
to Reveal Pos
By tiir Associated Press.
LONDON, December 13.?All
in London that any result will con
central powers and the opinion pre'
is not opportune even to discuss t<
feeling that something would be
<juainted definitely with the objects
If the press which supports tl
prets official opinion little time wil
the move of Germany and her allie
of the country does not favor too
It is believed the German people, o
objects of the entente, might be moi
for that reason, if for no other, the
be made known officially to the cen
The indications are that the va
allies do not intend to act hastily
peace proposals of the central pov
inlormed quarters today that wrnl
meats might indicate its general ;
allies under the treaty binding thei
require two or three weeks.
The possibility that President
tions when forwarding the offer al
mated that he might at least expres
of the entente to the central powers
The report is current here that
nounce the granting of a pariiair
Germany.
Strong Opinion Against Idea.
A strong current of public sentiment
opposed to the German peace proposal
was evident in the first expressions
available last night, both from public
men and the British press, although
these were without knowledge of any
definite terms and without any word
trom high authoritative sources indicating
the attitude of the government.
The only information in the press
absence of some tangle official
proposition British officials were disposed
to maintain reserve. It was
noticeable that the proposal had not
created any profound impression among
the average Londoners. There was little
talk in the hotels or other public places
and this discussion was far less animated
than in the' recent ministerial
crisis.
Ktut Be Considered by All.
Government circles also held aloof
from any discussion, with an evident
desire to learn more of the details before
committing the new administration
to a definite course of action. The
foreign office would make no comment, <
in the absence of the terms, but in- ]
dicated that the British attitude up to
the present was embodied in the declar- '
ations made from time to time by the
former premier and Viscount Grey and j 1
that any new proposals would have to ]
be considered by all the entente allies i '
before a definite attitude was possible, j 1
Those in close association with the j j
new government took the view that the ;
proposals would prove entirely* unac- j
ceptable, mainly because they were not! '
likely to touch what, the ruling, author
ities regard as the most essential basis
of any peace, namely, such guarantees j
against Germany -militarism- as will,
permi: England. France and their allies!
to demobilize their vast armies, reduce '
their enormous military expenses and i ]
return to lasting conditions of peace. ! ,
Both Premier Lloyd George and Mr.!,
Bat four. secretary ror toretgn anairs, |
ar?: slightly Hi. and this may result in;1
deferring the announcement of the!
plans of the new government Thurs-' f
?:a;.. but if an announcement is made,
.t will possibly include reference to the
'.ern.un proposal, though this is un-|
ihelv, pending receipt of the proposal J,
.'self through official channels. ij
What Prominent Men Say.
Some early expressions. Indicating.
the general drift of sentiment, were as,
follow s:
Sir Arthur <"ona:i Doyle: "We want)
to know more about the terms, for j
without them the imperial chancellor's j
suggestion of peace is preposterous arid ;
ridiculous. We. too, are conscious of.
ictory and his boastings will be
laughed at."
The Marquis of Londonderry: "We!
have got to win the war Peace at the;
present time would be disastrous to the
nation and the empire. It is only a
question of time and we will win out]
absolutely."
Principal Burrows of Kings College:]
"No peace is possible on the basis that
Germany is victorious."
Sir Gilbert Parker, after mingling '
AUSTRIAN RULER
BUT TELLS FORC
AMSTERDAM, December 13. via I
says Emperor Charles has issued the f<
"With Gcd's gracious assistance ;
have created a situation in which our
In an endeavor to give back to our pc
out heroically, the blessings of peace,
tempted to bring about an honorable
"1 pray that the Almighty ma:
but I am convinced you will continue
peace ia concluded or the enemy la be
f
.
NTENTE
OF PEACE
N OWN TERMS
Men Flay Germans in
Hasty Rejection of
sed, However.
/
rHE WORLD
JGERENTS' OBJECTS
Making Suggestions Discussed in
nment Officials Refuse
sible Course.
:hough little confidence is shown
te from the peace proposal of the
rails quite generally that the time
errns, there is an undercurrent of
gained by making the world acof
the belligerents,
le administration correctly inter1
be taken up by consideration of
s, although the moderate opinion
hasty rejection of the overtures,
nee they are acquainted with the
re inclined toward peace, and that
terms of the entente allies should
tral powers.
rious governments of the entente
in making joint response to the
rers. It was pointed out in well
e each one of the allied govern
... 1 a.: . i
iiiuuuc, tunsuiumon among me
m to such action probably would
Wilson will make some suggesso
is much discussed. It is intis
willingness to convey the terms
Emperor William is about to anlentary
form of government to
vlth hit associates in the house of
commons, said: "This is clearly a political
maneuver designed to impress the
ivorld as a dramatic stroke, but having
ittle serious purpose toward securing
in enduring peace. One of the chief
essentials of any peace would be such
i curbing of German militarism that a
resumption of the present conflict would
!>e impossible. Without such a guarmtee
England and France would be
compelled a? a matter of self-defense
to retain vast armies and thus continue
the enormous war burdens of the present
instead of being permitted to resume
peace with the assurance that
they will not again be plunged into
war."
May Lead to Something More.
Sir William Dunn, Lord Mayor of
London, said:
"Rather conscious of ultimate defeat
the Germans are making a virtue of
necessity. There will be no peace
signed by this country unless it is ?
peace acceptable to all the entente
powers and In accordance with their
wishes. This is probably the first overture.
Knowing that it will not be acceptable.
it may lead to something
better."
Gen. Sir O'Moore Greagh. who succeeded
Lord Kitchener as commanderin-chief
in India in 1909, ridiculed Germany's
offer of peace in a statement
made today. He said: "My opinion can
be expressed in a few words. I can only
characterize this official peace offer
is pure rubbish." Gen. Creagh retired
from the army in 1914 after forty-seven
years of service. Since then he has
been active in organizing the British
volunteers.
Views of the Press.
The morning newspapers, in their
editorial views on Germany's peace
proposals, take two main grounds?
that the offer should he rejected or that
it should be met with a statement of
the terms on which the entente allies
ire willing to effect a peace, leaving it
to the central powers to accept or reject
it.
The Morning Post argues that the
opening of negotiations would imply an
armistice. In which Germany would obviously
occupy the predominant position.
and that the question would be
whether the entente allies were prepared
to accept terms dictated by Germany.
It adds that to grant an armistice
would be to abandon the hope of
ever gaining the power to force Germany
to submission.
"Germany." says Mie Morning Post.
"knon'B ulic him her
henceforth must decline. Nothing,
therefore, will better serve her purpose
than an armistice."
Held Impudent Trick.
The Daily Mail describes the offer of
the central powers as "an impudent old
peace trick which is becoming as hackneyed
as the conjuring of rabbits out
of a hat." It adds that Dr. von Hetlimann-Hollweg
is no more entitled to
(Continued on Second Page.)
wants peace,
;es to fight on.
.ondon, 8:50 a.m.?A Vienna dispatch
>llowing to hia army and navy:
and your loyal allies' endurance we
final victory is no longer doubtful,
oplea who in serious times have held
I and my illustrious allies have atpeace.
v bestow Ilia blessings on this step,
to fight with the same heroism until
ten crushing!)'."
'V
REFUSE OUR HAND,
YOU'LL FEEL FIST,
GERMAN AniTUDE
I
'Pleasure Generally Felt Over
Chancellor's Steps to
i-?i xu. 111..
cnu me war.
i
i DEFINITE PROPOSALS
READY FOR SUBMISSION
:
Beleved Situation Is Advantageous
? to Teutons Even Though Entente
Spurns Peace Tenders.
i
I
! By the Associated Press.
| BERLIN, December 12, via London,
| December 13.?Although Chancellor von
Bethmann-Hollweg did not disclose the
definite proposals on which Germany
and her allies are prepared to make
peace in his speech before the reichstag,
such proposals are ready and will be
communicated to the entente powers if
the chancellor's offer should fall upon
responsive ears.
In the corridors of the reichstag,
where, after the historic twenty-minute
session, the members gathered in
keen discussion of the chancellor's
speech, the general opinion expressed,
was that the situation would be advantageous
to Germany whether or not I
the chancellor's offer was accepted by
the entente. Some of the opponents
of the chancellor are opposed to any
move in the direction of peace except
on the basis of "woe to the conquered."
Most members of the reichstag, however,
express the opinion that the emperor's
decision was wise and timely
and showed pleasure at the formal step
taken toward ending the war.
Cheers Greet Speech.
The speech of the chancellor was not j
marked by a single expression of dissent,
while the significant passages
were greeted with hearty bravos and
[ cheers. It was noticeable, however,
j that Count Friedrich von Westarp, the
| conservative leader, and others of his
following sat silent and unmoved even
when the galleries and newspaper men
joined demonstratively in the applause.
When the chancellor had concluded
his speech an attempt was made to
force an immediate debate by the annexationist
bloc, under Maj. Ernst Bassermann,
leader of the national liberals,
and Count Westarp. supported by the
extreme socialists. Tbls move wap
firmly resisted by the leaders of the
moderate parties, who agreed with the
chancellor that a general discussion Of
possible peace conditions before the at- I
I titude of the enemy powers was made
| known could only Injure the cause of
peace and place Germany at a diplomatic
disadvantage. Their attitude
was that if the central powers exposed
all their cards before peace negotiations
began they would be placed at a
disadvantage. ,
The indefinite adjournment of the
reichstag by its own decision leaves
the government a free hand to conduct
further negotiations and Js regarded
as tantamount to a vote of confidence.
Enthusiastic Over Overtures.
BERLIN". Tuesday, December 12, via
London, December 13.?Commenting on
the peace proposals, 'Germariia, the
Catholic organ, expresses especial
pleasure that the central powers appeal
to the pope as well as to other neutrals.
It enthusiastically approves the peace
overtures which it terms the privilege
of the stronger in war and a performance
of the holiest of duties to humanity
and Christian morality.
The newspaper declares that the emj
peror's note to Germany's opponents
| is a document of the love of peace.
than which none could be greater, fairI
er or go to further lengths and which
! proves that Germany. despite its
| enormous military success, does not
I wish to strike in cold blood to destroy
! its enemies, hut In consonance with
ts responsibility to God and the world
offers them the hand of peace. Only a
fool, it declares, will see in the offer
an Indication of weakness.
People Back of Emperor.
The question is. however, adds the
newspaper, whether Germany's opponents
v. ill not reject the overture as
frivolously as they started the war.
Should they do this, it declares, then
there ill he no one who can fail to see
for himself who the real, systematic
j destroyers of the world are. The Ger!
man people to a man stand behind the
'emperor's jfeace overture, it comments,
hut Germany will stand behind him "in
i holy unity and holier anger if his well
i meant intentions are frivolously balked.
I "Then circumstances will have to take I
! the course which a just God placed in j
j our hands when He gave us the power j
! which our enemies already feel so
[ acutely and which they will have to '
I teel until the end."
Die Post treats the i>eaoe overtures in !
i an exceedingly pessimistic manner, de- '
j daring that there will be anything ex- .
! cept willingness in England to recognize'
Germany's requirements. The newspaper :
: warns Germany's enemies that, "if you
i refuse Germany's hand yob will soon feel '
her fist with Increased force." . It adds
that the overtures show a superfluity cf
neutral offers on behalf of peace. "They
don't need to mix in matters anv more."
says Die Post. "The negotiations ran
begin immediately and directly."
Bulgarians Cheer News
of Proposals of Peace
Revealed by Premier
SOFIA. Tuesday, December 12, via
j London,December 13,1:10 p.m.?Premier
; Radoslavoff read in parliament today
i the note delivered to the United States,
| Spain and Switzerland expressing; the
; willingness of the central powers to
discuss peace. The house of parliament
i was thronged and prolonged cheers
greeted the premier's announcement.
After reading the note, M. Kadoslavoff
said:
j "Our armies are holding their posij
tions and will continue to fulfill their
j tasks until further orders."
I "We Want War to End
as Quickly as Possible,"
Berlin Paper Declares
AMSTERDAM.
December 13, via London.?"The
condition of every peace ne-!
fcoUation," says the Berlin Vosslsche Zei- |
#
4
tung, "must, of course, be a continuation j
of the fight until the moment when tangible
conditions have been laid down, because
the German proposals rest on the
basis of the strength of our arms. The
longer the negotiations are prolonged the
greater will be the advantage of our arms.
If the German people see that the peace,1
offer bears no fruit they will then, like
their allies, demand from the government
a continuation of the war with all available
means.
the war to end as quickly as !
"If the peace which we freely ofTer is !
not accepted We will force peace with the !
sword and by all means of war on land. |
war on the sea and war in the air."
The Tag^blatt. in its comment on the j
peace proposals, says : |
~~iwen ii me entente miouiu r*jc i n-*s
offer, the clever, conciliatory move will
not be without favorable results."
GOVERNORS ARE ARRIVING
FOR CONFERENCE HERE
State Executives Beaching Washington
to Discuss High Cost of Living
and Other Things.
.
Governors of various states began to I
arrive in Washington today in preparation
for a "conference of governors" !
which will begin tomorrow at the New
Willard Hotel. Gov. Kendrick of
Wyoming headed the advance guard of
the state executives, registering at the
New Willard Hotel, where most of the
other governors will stay upon arrival.
Gov. Dunne of Illinois is expected this
afternoon, and most of the other state
executives will reach the city this
evening or the flrst thing in the morning.
Miles S. Riley will serve as secretary
of the conference, it is announced, although
arrangements for the conference
have been made largely by Gov.
Fort of New Jersey. The meeting was
to have been held at Salt Lake City
last summer, but was postponed.
| The high cost of living, it is said,
will be one of the principal topics to
come up for discussion. Gov. Harrington
of Maryland will speak on "the executive
budget system" and Gov. Dunne
will speak on the lakea-to-the-gulf
waterway.
i
ON WAY TO UNITED STATES.
Belgian Refugees in Charge of
Father Deville Reach Rotterdam.
nn'rTRRDAM. via London. December
i 13.?Father John B. Deville of Chicago*
ha? brought 216 Belgian women, children
and okl men here from east and
west Flanders on their way to the
United States. The districts from which
the refugees come have been closed up ,
to this time under martial law. Forty*1
four Belgians, who were to have been
included in the party, missed their
train and were left behind. Those who
arrived here will sail for N'ew York on
December 1? on the Nieuw Amsterdam.
The steamer will have the heaviest
j passenger list in a long time. There
I will be about 200 in the saloon. 400 in
| the second cabin and 1.000 in the steerage.
I Since November. 1915. Father John
Deville has been engaged in bringing'
Belgian refugees to the United States.
' He has made four trips between the 1
I two countries and has aided in the j
I transportation of nearly 2.000 victims
! of the war to the United States.
DAY IN CONGRESS.
I I
Senate:
Met at noon.
Public lands committee referred
oil land leasing bill to a subcommittee
to confer with representatives
of the Navy, Interior and
Justice departments.
Debate resumed on immigra- i
lion bill.
House:
Met at noon.
Began consideration of Alaskan
ftshei^es bill. .
EASY CHOOSING.
?? . - |
IHINKS BUILDINb
PROGRAM SCANDAL |
C. H. Whitaker Tefls Civic Association
U. S. Should Have ?
Some Better System, J
y
BRANCHES BADLY HOUSED \l
! o
The government building problem J 0
has developed to a point where no other j d
word can describe it but "scandal," j ^
Charles H. Whitaker, editor of the j
Journal of the American Institute of j c
Architects, told the delegates to the l !'
twelfth annual convention of the j c
American Civic Association at the Wil- | t
lard this morning. i ?
"Th': various branches are housed in |
the most ill-assorted, decrepit and in- . n
adequate set of buildings probably ever j n
occupied by any government, paying ! p
an annual rental of $650,000 for the .
many it does not own. This has an evil li
effect on local real estate interests, and i 1
the factor of speculation in buildings j t
to be rented causes reckless waste and j a
extravagance," he said. J c
"The omnibus public buildings bill j ?
is the biggest item fr. the annual t
debauchery of the communities of this j \
country. It contains 425 items calling t
for $35,000,000, nearly all of which J
have not been properly investigated. J ^
According to the seemingly usual pro- j v
portion of 'pork' $23,000,000 of this ex- t
penditure is to go for the benefit of ; t
democrats and tip- remaining $12,000,000 . s
for that of republicans." . j "t
Conditions Must Be Corrected. j *
Mr. Whitaker made his denunciation j
in no uncertain terms and told the dele- i f
gates that the institute represented by ] *
him believes that no architectural de- j ^
velopment is possible until funda- |
mental conditions are corrected and. j
specifically, that the institute feels that
in the establishment of an expert commission
to study the problems of government
buildings lies the only possible
solution. -r
John L. Weaver of this city, vice *
president of the National Association of !
keai Estate Boards, with a membership j
of more than 7.000 firms, in conveying ?
oonventiori greetings on behalf of his i
organization, said that if then* was an i
impression that local real estate inter
ests have ever worked against the crea- !
tion of proper governmental housing: 1
facilities, he could confidently state j u
that it was unfounded. On the other ! a
hand, he claimed, the erection of per- S
manent suitable federal buildings w
would, in the end. benefit real estate ! 11
values and tlie consequent prosperity ; ii
of real estate firms. He explained that j tl
grave faults in the laws under which *
the government rents premises are re- ' ^
sponsible for a situation which, he said. *
Air. Whitaker had accurately desirioed, ; b
and added: ' o
"When your advice is adopted and '
better homes and living conditions are ' Cl
produced, our business and its returns !
will be improved." He asked for the ! ?
co-operation of the association in fur- '
thering improvements in the now anti- \
quated system of preserving title rec-I !:
oids and in the establishment of market
values in the real estate business, j s
Address of Col. Kutz.
?It is the aim of the District Com- P
missioners to make Washington an
ideal and model American city and in d,
this your association can be most help- 1
ful," sakl Engineer Commissioner t<
Charles W. Kutz. who extended the 11
welcome to the convention. "It is the
only city in which all your members
have a common interest."
J. Horace McFarland of Harrisburg, i
Pa., the president, in responding said oi
that the beauty and excellent civic con- |L
ditions of the Capital city are a testimonial
to the vigor, devotion to ideals \ '[
and public spirit of the successive ^
boards of Commissioners. M
The morning session, which was the first ai
of the three-day convention proceedings, ii
was devoted entirely to a discussion of A
related civic advance contributed to b& o'
representatives of organizations having P
?r
]
ibsS
I
N,
\
?
vyns allied to that of the civic associa>on.
The modern city should combine
>eauty with utility, said Warren H. Manling
of Boston, former president, on bejalf
of the American Society of Landscape
Architects. He explained that cities
md buildings are as important items in
i landscape as parks, trees and fields and
jleaded for the preservation of natural
ather than the creation of artificial
>eauty in regard to the latter.
Others Who Made Addressee.
.Richard B. Watrous, secretary of the
'ivic Association, speaking in the place
>f Frederick Law Olmsted for the Naional
Conference of City Planning, exuessed
the appreciation of the latter
?ody for the work of the former, and
,!r. McFarland. as vice president of the I
National Municipal League, speaking for j
'linton Rogers Woodruff, its secretary, ;
onveyed its sympathy with the ideals !
f the Civic Association. J. Lockie Wil- ;
on of Toronto, secretary of the Ontario ;
lorticultural Association, spoke for that i
rganization. and Mrs. Edward W. Bidle.
past president of the Federation of j
cnnsvl vnnin Women, for thp General
^deration of Women's Clubs.
"Our task is to help the people dis-|
over that the schoolhouse really be- !
ongs to them and not to the school
oard." said Dr. Henry E. Jackson, speialist
in community organization of:
he bureau of education, in his address i
n "The Discovery of the Schoolhouse," ;
elivered ?t the afternoon session to- >
ay. He traced the history of the com
nunity use of schools and outlined the I
ewest step in this idea as embodied in j
he Hollis-Johnson bill, now before I
Congress. characterizing the school as j
The only democratic institution we
ave, the only platform on which all '
he people can meet."
The experiment in democracy under- I
aken by this government 150 years j
go. he said, depends more for its sucess
on the public school than on any j
ther factor.
Miss Margaret Wilson presided over |
his session and other speakers were
'ercy Mackaye of Shirley. Mass., who j
alked on "The Community Drama," (
nd John H. Clundlach, president of the j
t. Louis Pageant Drama Association, i
. ho described the recent pageant in j
hat city. George Y. Worthington of
his city will preside over tonight's j
ession. on which occasion the associn- '
ion will be the guests of the Heal I
Estate Brokers' Association of Washlgton.
j
SHORTER DAY DEMANDED i
BY CLOTHING WORKERS
*
iight Hours' Labor With More Pay
Asked by 60,300 in New York.
Strike May Extend.
NEW YORK. December 13.? Labor's
iovement for an eight-hour day was in- !
ugurated among New York's clothing !
rorkers today with a strike, which, com- !
>g as the city's second great garment i
ndustry disturbance during 1916. will j
lirow more than 60.000 persons out of |
ork if the leaders' plans are carried out. |
nc waiKoui is expected to extend to ;
Newark. X. J., and perhaps to Philadel- '
hia. which would affect thousands of i
ther workers. i
The strike call, addressed to cutters,
oat workers, dressmakers and pantsbakers
employed in the men's and cliil- :'
ren's clothing branches, was made pub- ; !
c today by the Amalgamated Clothing):
Porkers of America, which organized the I
lovement. The call contains the foliowig
sentences:
"Eight hours for work, eight hours for |
leep. eight hours to live, is what all J
orkers are striving for.
"We want some share of this great proserity
to meet the high cost of living.
"Be orderly and permit no disorder." j 1
Besides an eight-hour day. the workers J !
emand a weekly wage increase of $2. j :
finety per cent of the employes to whom !
le strike call was addressed are d^'ared 1 .
> be members of the amalgamated body, i "
te others working in non-union shop'.
George C. Boldt Left $15,030,000. !
NEW YORK, December 13.?The will
C George C. Boldt, the hotel man. filed
ere, leaves his entire estate, estimated
t excess of $15,000,000, to his son.
eorge C. Boldt, jr.. and his daughter,
Irs. Clover Bohlt Miles', who are named
9 executors. Mr. Boldt. besides ownig
all of the stock of the Waldorfstoria
Hotel Company, personally
wned tl e Bellvue-Stratford Hotel, in
hiladelphia.
GEMS PUSH ON;
RUSSTAKEPOSmONS
Rumanian Resistance Along
Jalonitza River Reported
to Have Been Overcome.
30,000 SLAVS LOST, CLAIM
Military operations within the past
twenty-four hours have developed important
happenings only in the Rumanian
war area. Here the Teutonic
armies are continuing their advance in
fa atfm vvq 11 a oh in
Berlin announces that the Rumanian
resistance has been overcome along j
the Jalonitza river, where a stand had
been made by the Rumanians, reinforced
by Russian cavalry. The Rumanian
armies are reported again in
full retreat to the northeast, presumably
falling back upon the line of the
Buzue. close to the southern Moldavian
border. More than 7,0'M) additional
prisoners were taken by Field Marshal
von Mackensen's army yesterday. Russians
are reported to have lost 30,000
men in the Carpathians.
Russians Capture Trenches.
By the Associated Press.
PETROGRAD, December 13, via Don- j
don, 2:21 p.m.?Russian troops yesterday
captured a line of Teuton trenches
on heights to the south of Agusualia.
in the region of the Trotus valley of
Rumania, according to an official state- :
ment issued today by the Russian war
department. Teuton counter attacks in j
an effort to regain the lost positions
were repulsed with great losses, the
statement adds.
Oil Reservoirs Drained.
The evacuation of Bucharest, although
delayed until the last moment,
was made in perfect order after the removal
or destruction, according to reports
from Jassy, of the war supplies
and most of the other properties of possible
military advantage to the invaders.
Enormous oil reservoirs at Ploechti
were drained as soon as it became evident
that the Rumanians would have
to abandon this important center. Dispatches
from the Rumanian front say
that in executing their difficult retreat
the Rumanians maneuvered skillfully.
By spirited rear-guard actions along
the road from Ploechti to Buzeu they
succeeded in delaying Gen. von Falkenhayn's
advance long enough to defeat
the flanking movement, which. If successful,
would have closed the way to
Moldavia and resulted in the capture
of a large part of the Rumanian army.
At present the way to Moldavia is still
open, and the Rumanians, presenting
an unbroken front, have the opportunity
of retreating in good order, without
danger of encirclement.
Claims Bepulse for Buss.
By the AnwtatM Pres*.
BERLIN. December IS. by wireless to
Sayville.?Russian attacks in the
Gyergyo mountains, on the eastern j
Transylvanian front, were repulsed j
yesterday by the Teutonic forces, the
war office announces.
In Wallachia Rumanian troops which,
reinforced by Russian cavalry, attempted
to make a stand, are now once more in
full retreat. More than *.000 prisoners
were taken yesterday. The statement
reads:
"Front of Archduke Joseph: In the
wooded Carpathians various patrol engagements
undertaken by us were successful.
"On the Transylvania eastern front
yesterday German and Austro-Hungarian i
troops again repulsed Russian attacks in
the Gyergyo mountains and on both sides
of the Trot us valley. Reconnoitering
actions followed the ret-eating enemy.
They brought back prisoners.
"'Army group of Field Marshal von
Mnckensen: T^e enemy, which had been
reinforced "bv Russian cavalry and again
had made a stand along the Jalomitz
river, the waters of which had risen high,
is now again in full retreat toward the
northeast. Tin Danube and 9th armies
are pressing after him on the whole front.
On the road to Bttzeu we gained considerable
ground, taking 2.000 prisoners,
while in the mountains yesterday more
than 4.000 additional prisoners were
taken."
Italians Check Bulgars.
PARTS. December 13.? A counter at- j
tack delivered by Bulgarian troops j
against the Italians on the Macedonian j
front north of Monastir resulted In
spirited fighting yesterday. The war
office announced today that the attack j
failed.
BKRM.N. December 13, by w ireless to j
SavviPe.?Reporting op conditions in i
Macedonia, today's army headquarters J
statement says:
"Maoedoniati front?After the recent j
enemy defeats calm prevails on the
Cernri on the Struma ami along the j
roast."
HUGHES' MICHIGAN PLURALITY j
Leading: Republican Electir Heads
Leading; Democrat by 52.322.
LANSING. Mich., December 13?The
state board of canvassers, in session
here, announces that the plurality of
Charles K. Hughes over President Wilson
at the November election in Michigan
was 52,322. The lending republican
elector received 339,097 votes and
the leading democrat received 286.775.
The vote cast for the other candidates !
was: Socialist. 16.126: prohibition. 8.-j
139. and socialist labor. 842. Th<> plurality
of United States Senator Uharles
E. Townsend. republican, was 106.703.
The majority in favor of state-wide
prohibition was 68.624. The figures
were: For. 353,378: against, 284,754.
The so-called home rule amendment
lost by 122.599. The vote was: For,
.56.272; against, 378,871.
Slump Closes Tokio Exchange.
TOKIO. December 13.?The peace
proposal of Germany and her allies
caused such a violent slump on the '
stock exchange that the market has
been closed temporarily by the directors.
Conservation
of Paper
Every civizen is called upon io see \ \
that not a pound of paper is wasted. |
Demand from every clerk that any
unnecessary wrapping of packages '
be dispensed with. ,
If you have no further use for today's
newspaper save it for the
school children's playground fund. 1
Call Main 6036 and ask for the
nearest public school to your homo '
and the old papers will be^setit- for. <
x 1
PRESIDENT S ACTION
ON GERMAN TENDERS
IS NOT YET DECIDEDT
Believed U. S. Wil I Intimate
Sincere Wish for Peace
Discussion. '
EXTREME DELICACY '
I1ADVC TUC OITIIATinM
innimo nil OIIUHMUII
Impression Grows Mr. Wilson Will
Safeguard Usefulness as Peacemaker
in Struggle.
President Wilson's course of notion In
connection with Germany's peace pro
posals remained undecided today, while
he awaited the ofii-ial proffer which
the central powers have asked the
United States to transmit to their enemies.
The impression grew that while the
President's first consideration was to
safeguard his usefulness as a peacemaker
by omitting any comment which
might possibly be coupled v ith a rejection
by the entente powers, there
was a disposition to find some way,
however delicate and informal, to intimate
the sincere wish of the United
States that some basis for discussion at
least might be reached. Many official*
felt that an indication of the temper
of the entente governments should be
available before the influence of the
United States was thrown into the balance.
United States Medium of Beply.
The United States, by reason of its dual
responsibility of representing the interests
of most of the central powers and
the entente governments in the capitals
of their enemies, would, of course, become
the medium of communication
through which any reply of the etitenis
governments to the centr.u b 1 liferents
would be made.
Coriao nv'o nftto nuinncii.ii
tiations to enemy powers was expected
to reach here today in official textual
form from Charge Grew at Keel in for
transmission to each of the entente belligerents
to whom it is addressed
After studying it President \Vii?un will
decide whether it shall be for warded
without comment or accompanied by soma
expression by the United States government.
:
Publicity Prevented.
Extreme delicacy of the situation. It to
pointed out. would prevent the slightest
publicity being gfren to nny possible mention
thr this government other tnan perfunctory
transmission of the note
through the American ambassador tn
each of the countries addressed,
i It is regarded here as almost certain.
I however, that the President will take
' some steps to ascertain definitely tha
j entente allies' attitude toward the peaoa
i movement.
x ui^uocijr xxuuuiicu.
The German embassy had r.o further
advices on the terms of the central .governments.
but it was freely admitted
that terms had purposely been omitted
from the chancellor's speech and the
note, because the sole purpose v as to
propose a conference on terms und
carefully avoid advancing any which
might be mad? the basis of a refusal.
The Germanic diplomats in tiis country,
reflecting the views of their governments.
believe the answer ?.f tlie entente
allies will be an inquiiy as 10 ;h?
basis on w hich German;- t> opjses
peace, ar.d with tnat much as a foundation.
they see the wa.*;i. a nations
rt ell on the way to a confers ce from
which they are sauguine peace -o ld
result.
The probability of the e re te a'lies
themselves making soire announcement
of the h rms on which th y w ould inako
peace is le,yarded here as having tvemendous
possibilities for e*T? ct upon
the German peot dos the. 11s: Ives.
Cancels Engagements.
The President canceled all his out*
side engagements today, including on#
to preside over the annual meeting of
' he American Med Gross. n.ud remained
in the White House, where he conferred
with Col. K. M. Ho ;*e. h -friend
uid adviser, who n.ad? one trip to Kui
ope to sound out p?ace sentiment several
months ago. <*ol House may go
again if the President makes a move
to accompany Germany's proposal*
with suggestions of my era rac"er.
It was reitera'od tliat until the oliloial
documents had been ie< t-ived for
transmittal to the entente hciligerents
no decision cou'd be reached ;is to what
the Pnited Sta'es will do rurther than
to transmit them.
The London press continent on the
pence offer is known to be in accord
with confidential advices coming to thin
government before Ghancellor vott
Bethmann-Hollweg's speech and the
note were published. I! >\\ far tliis
comment represents the views or tits
new British government can only b*
surmised.
Guarantees Might Ee Asked.
In quarters close to the entente allies
an opinion prevailed that if the entente
allies made reply their first
course might be to inquire what guarantees
would be given by Germany
that the terms of a peace treaty would
be fulfilled, and that a treaty would
not be violated, as, the alliess contend,
in the case of Belgium. By making
such a reply, entente diplomats see the
responsibility for continuing the war
thrown back to the central powers.
The President, has been urged by
some advisers to make his address t<*
the opening of the conference of governors
here tomorrow night the occg0;nn
tn ovnresH in general terms his ^
aVtitude without binding: himself in a ' '
definite way.
Col. E. M. House left at noon ror
New York. He said he had no plans
for going' to Europe and would not discuss
the proposals of the central powers.
on the ground that the official word
had not been received.
Diplomats Apprehensive. - I
Among the entente diplomats no at* I
tempt was made to disguise their ap? I
prehension that President Wilson, in 3|
transmitting the German proposal, 3
night make some move toward media- I
tioti. At all the embassies it was said ]
such an offer would interfere seriously |
with the plans of the allies. Its effect m
jpon the peace movements in the allied .j
countries also was taken into consider* 1
ition in that connection. ^ I
