NIGHT
EXTRA
vx3STKA
IMtger
ictienmg
IGHT
i't
V
EXTRA
'FINANCIAL EDITION
w
a 1
VOL.
III. NO.
i
78
WOOD CONCERN
'SCAVENGER,' IS
OPINION INOHIO,
Identity of Consolidated
President Mystery
in West '
STOCKHOLDERS JOIN
IN RECEIVER PLEAS
v - ,
Cincinnati Mayor and
1 Others Make Complaint to
Commissioner O'Neil
c I
REGARDED AS "PAKE"
Pension Mutunl and Other Con
Vccrns Linked Up in General
Scheme
Who I president of the Consolidated
Inrealment Compnny?
In these parts everybody linn believed
him to be n. C Dowers, the young man
irho alao heads. In name, the Union Casualty
Company slnco L,yndon D. Wood gained con.
trol of that corporation
Out In Ohio, It develops, they believe
Lyndon D. Wood la president of the Con
solidated Investment Company.
Everybody knWs that Wood Is the domi
nant figure, but nobody In Pennsylvania
bis heretofore; bollevcd ho allowed nny In
testers to believe he held ofllcc. Tha Con
telldated Investment Company was planned
by him to bo a holding company for all the
Insurance companies ho hoped to bring un
der one management.
Wood's affairs come Into court next Mon
day and Tuesday, for, on tho first of these
days, he defends an attempt by Insurnnco
Commissioner J. Denny O'Neil to have n
receiver appointed for tho Pension Mutual
Lite Insurance Company, and tho follow
ing day he defends a similar action against
Ids Union Casualty Company.
CONSOLIDATED ASSAILED
How he la regarded In Ohio Is shown
by the following excerpt $rom a letter
1 written by Aaron A. Ferris, n. Cincinnati
x lawyer, who holds fifty shares of the
Union wasusiiy siogk. jib nayo, wriung
t10 ur. Utieiii
Bi l . ...... .. -
From my point or view, me con
solidated Investment Company Is llt-
,, us oeuer man n laue concern., cer,,
talAfy a get-rlch-qulck" scheme ; and
that the principal business of tho Con-"
solldated Investment Company Is to
gather up corpses of Insurance compa
nies that hive fallen Into hard lines
financially, get hold of their assets, dnd
pick up the bones that are left.
Utters dated July 10. 1916, bear the
signature of Bowers In .which he Is classed
as president of that concern.
But In Ohio It Is different. In the "Buck
eye" Stale, where many stockholders of
the Union Casualty Insurance Company re,
lids. Wood Is looked upon as tho president
of the Consolidated Investment Company,
which In Insurance circles Is described as
a sort of "melting pot''' for Ufa Insurance
companies.
Tha puizllng feature ns to the real
Identity of the president of tho Consolidated
was raised today In a communication which
nachtd State Insurance Commissioner
Q'.Vtll, from George Puchta, Major of Cln
, cinaatl, Ohio, and scleral well-known
cltUins of that city, all of whom signify
their willingness to Join In the petition to
have a receiver appointed for the Union
Casualty Insurance Company. Major
Puchta and his friends who sent the com
munication are stockholders fn tho Union
Casualty Insurance Company of Philadel
phia, This company, which Is controlled
y the Consolidated Investment Company,
V
Continued on Tsae Kltht, Column Jtfour
GIRL KILLED BY RUNAWAY
Driverless Garbage Wagon Runs Down
Seven-Year-Old
Theresa Kuhn, seven years old, 6238
WheeUr street, naa run over and killed
his. afternoon ot Blxty-thlrd street nnd
Elmwood avenue when the horses attached
10 garbage wagon took fright and ran
ay The child died In the patrol wagon
M the SUty-ntth street and Woodland ave-
police station on the way to the Unl
rIty Hospital.
The driver of tha team. Jnianh nfv.r.
hotter. :s years old, of Eighty-sixth street
aud Lukens avenue, was arrested following
the accident and is being detained at tho
police station.
According to the Dollce. the dead irlrt
a4 a number of her friends were playing
around the heads of, the horses while the
stiver was In a nearby alley,collectlng gar-
ttL1 I" h0r8es t09k ,r,snt' bota and
toe. wheels of the wasron uih nar ,..
ili-
. TOE WEATHER
FQREQABT
"tf cloudy and continued cola tonight
AM TAuMdaj. tcith probably anow
"&, Igtceu temperature tonight about
atgretf, vioderate winds, moitlu 40ulh
LENGTH OF
U,n I Moon rlata SJHtpm
UlM I Moon soulha li .13 in
Su riu.
IfcBMM
MX.IWABI: B1VKS TIDE riUhOKS
Htahw., 'ThVT bTKEKT
iwwetV iiH"-!lllb.wur 143p.m.
"wwettr ltwi.m in wt mopBL
ItniPltltATimi.. . .... ........
fc 1 81 1S1 1F1 ! , .r, , Ti T
,mM
sgTslt-gHit-iaTTen V
fW mB(Uiimvmajimmmjm- .. I
LssHSsiBi HsJsHMsS 58iseraMr '. ma1 TOftX v
praLHS - jBsBns&sliHBsBPJHsBKsi t ," ;i
aJlvlHHIsflsE 4 SBHssVksKS'BBBBBBBBBHWBBBISIsW V N J mmj
KKHhK 3HlHflHHfHI1? tit- tBfHMflW HHft m .i,- ttti u p y in , jjtft j
Tho blacksmith fthon nt (""rnmnq
1,..ll it m ir
builditiKS. Two nlnrms wore runt
FATE OF BERLIN PEACE OFFER
IN HANDS OF LLOYD GJMGE;
. COUNTER-PROPOSAL LIKELY
Premier Will Reply to Germany's Move
Next Tuesday Neutralfs Asked to
Act as Messenger Only,
Berlin Explajms
England and tho entire world Is
Premier, Lloyd Gcorwill'nddress tho
to Garmnny's peace proposals.
UnliJ ihat time British men and
continue tho war until a decisive victory
The statement of Lloyd George In
answer England should consider untjl
England's fortuno has now been placed,
Lloyd ucorge said:
"Tho fight must be to a finish to a
If the comment of ondon uewspup
propose to r6gard the German, peace pro
German trick."
It was conceded Germany has made
ing to all unofficial texts the note itself
basis for Germany's desire for peace,
to enter into peace negotiations. Such n
imperative a counter proposal on the pi
basic principles on wntcn mey are wimr,ng to end tho wnr. The nbaence of any
reference to Luxembourg in unofficial
many has excited considerable speculation as to what Germany intends to do
with that Duchy, which was created aa u buffer State between Germany nnd
France.
It was stated In high ofllcltil circles that
a flat refusal to consider flermnny's proi
posat obUoualy would leave Ciermany
an advnntageous diplomatic position In tl
eyes of the world and In th lew of h'
inn nnmile Tnerororo. H is uuiioiuc.
virtually n diplomatic- necessity thut
formal reply, at least designed to shift
sponslBlllty for further warfare to derma
must be made by the Entente rowers.
SCOIINS "aHNKKOSlTY"
"Oermany's and her allies' cue was
snatch a military victory to balance
five great military defeats which they a
fered In the western. Italian and RusaU
ii.-nir.a" said the Pally Chronicle. 'r,
then at the top of their territorial conq
in vm forward with an appeal for
.....tinn of bloodshed nnd an offei
peac on os-you-were terms, which In
irniimKnnrea could be given a falsi
of generosity."
"the course which the Allies must ta
meet these tactics Is perfectly clear,
serted -the Times. 'They must absolut
relect any Idea of mediation In any shi
and from any quarter so long as the ba
proposed la the triumph of might and tJnot
Df rlaht. They must retuse wiui euai i'ifm'
nesa to tall, about an armistice, until
lands which the enemy has overrun are
atored and compensated They must ren;
the enunciation of their peace terms I
down once for a,H In Awjulth's ClulldW
aneech. and they must redouble melr ejloig-u
to force these ternis uiwn the uccompllci
, . ... .. nt
There can be i0 oompromi anu
a drawn war where the very prinoipiw
public right are at stake "
VOUI.D AFPKCT NKUTfUIfa
The Baoress calls tlw Pae proposal
deep laid djploraatlc schema to aneoi n
Ira Is.
Commenting Mulay uppn the Oerman offi
the Expres sayst . ,
"The KaUer vow dons tbe'robe of peae
mi..,. with the oonMsl9Uie8 of being tl
..i.- Th r.ai victor dleUte terms,
bul
even Wllbalm U repognlaes that he m
:! j .hi. ir is a. vlstor who fears dl
" " '" ." .." .-... .,,n ,h. fast
aster crtanceuur .u.. -... ,.. --y
that the German armies are uiwaquerabU)
Dare he pretend they are una.uebler
The editorial then sets forth, what It
beUeves is tfie attitude of the public W-
'"We are certain the fljfat Pf the Herman
CaaUmW Vs " Celw tai
FIRE THREATENS CRAMPS SHIPYARDS
liinvnr,l wm ,lni)rn.t I... n- .! .
to prevent the firo frfcm sprenilinB,
cappca oy smKo.
LONDON, Dec. 13.
looking
House
J
forward to next Tuesday, when
f Commons for Britain's nnswor
women re considcrinff but one thinp-
to
Is von.
a rcfccnt interview is cited ns the only
th3 Mtlo, 'Welshman, in whoso hands
hrfas spoken again. In this statement,
knockout."
ers is any criterion, England docs not
bosnls in any other light than "another
a very clever diplomatic play. Accord
loe3 not contain any concessions as the
t merely states Germany's willingness
iroffer, it wns pointed out, makes almost
rt of tho Allies which will state. some
ffdispatches on the termi offered by Ger
NIVELLE TO LEAD .
ARMY OF FRANCE
Joffre, Stripped of High
Command, Included in
New War -Council
DU FOURNET REPLACED
PAItlS, Pec 13, Oeneral Joseph Joffre,
the military Idol of the French nation, has
been relieved of his command of the French
armlea and has a new post of Councillor
to Drland's newly formed war council, It
has been o(riIally announced today
The first step In the reorganisation ot
the high command of the French army has
been the appointment of Ueneral NUelle as
Commander-in-Chief
Formal assumptlSVj of their duties by (he
members ot Ilrland'a, new oltlclal family
was made today when tho entire body ap,
peared In the Chamber of Deputies They
had been in conference with President I'oln-
care until midnight
The snwM. compact body, which will
manage France's part In the war la coin
nosed pf men whom the French public regard
os Ideally constituted for the work. There
are five members, six Including Jorfre as
Councillor.
Hearing outAr&letlon that the result
0t the reconstruction of the apvernmeit
would be felt In he Ualkans s well as the
-western theatre of war, the Cabinet also
has replaced Admiral du Kournet, Commander-in-Chief
of the Anglo-Freneh fleet
in a reek waters, with Admiral Gaucher.
France has a war council or six mem?
bere. The policy of the new Govern
meat will be Identical with that of Eng
land's, namely . Concentration ot authority,
a more, vigorous prosecution of the war and
utilisation of the national resources In both
men and materials.
Premier UrUnd was scheduled to make
a speech la the chamber of deputies today
ContUa:! 10 1'we EUbt. Ctelcsa Tvre
""" "i "vo mis niicniuuii which iiirvniencii inu nmuinuiK
in to prevent the flro frfem snrenillnir. The fireman were seriously hnntli-
DECeIi
L
PHILADELPHIA, WEDNESDAY,
li.u .1 . i n. .n!!
FLAME5,SWEEP
SHOP AT CRAMPS
Firemen Battling to Confine
Blaze to Blacksmith
Plant
HAMPERED BY SMOKE
Fire believed to have been caused by the
Ignition of oil swept the blacksmith simp
nt Cramp's Shipyard this n (for noon nnd
threatened a number of surrounding build
ing. Two aUrms brought a quick response
by the firemen who have so far fieei) able
to confine tho lilarn to the, shop. At Itlch
mond nnd Cumberlami street.
The work of the firefighters Is greatly
hampered by thick clouds of smoke which
pours from the windows In all directions. At
times these smoke clouds completely engulf
tha building. ,
When the flames were discovered the men
engaged in the shop dropped their tools and
fought the fire pending the arrival of the
firemen.
The combustible materials stored In tha
aliop. Including oils, paints and varnishes
of all description, scattered nauseating
odors nil over the neighborhood nnd also
added to the difficulties of the firemen
There Is little hope of saving tho build
ing, and all efforts aro now being made
to prevent the spread of the names to other
buildings.
WOMEN
HURT
IN KXI'LOSION
Munitions Plant Near Baltimore Scene
of Accident
HAI.TIMOIU:. Dec 13 Two numcii were
seriously Injured and six others slightly
hurt when powder, used In Tho manufacture
of munitions, exploded In the ptnnt of the
llartlett Hayward Company, near Turner's
Htatlon. Haltlmoro Count), today.
Tho two moro seriously Injured were
rushed to the Mercy Hospital hero In auto
mobiles, while the others wero treated In
th companj's emergency hospital
BACHMAN STILL FREE;
ASSOCIATE .GIVES UP
Amos ir. Nissley, Accused in AN
leged $2,500,000 Swindle,
Surrenders
Amos II. Nissley, of Steelton, Pa , one of
the three men wanted by the Federal au
thorities for using the mall to defraud In
conducting alleged swindles In tha opera
tion of the :, 500,000 International (Us
and Electrla Company, surrendered himself
to the loverimiiit .agents In UarrUburg
today. News of his surrender was received
by Chief Postal Inspector Jamea T. Cortel.
you, whq will have him brought to Phila
delphia for trial.
Nissley was arraign! before United
States Commissioner Wolf In Ilarrlsburg
and furnished 17000 ball for his aprtearance
In, this Slty
Clawson Oachman, of SO! West Johnson
street, said to be the master-mind of the
alleged swindle. Is still 4 large, and.t ac
cording to postal Inspectors, la a fugitive
from'justlce. Joseph T Hayden, another
member of the tfachrasn-Hayden-Nlssley
triumvirate, also will surrender today, ac
cording to his attorney. J Washington
Ufue.
James T. Cortelyou said Indictments might
be asked against four more men In connec
tion with the alleged swindle. He said Bach
man and Hayden were the dominant fig
ures, that Js'lley bad a good share In the
scheme, and that others to be apprehended
would be agents and other employes of the
men who helped materially ta advance the
m, .
IDER 13, 191G
Cortttenr,
QUICK
H. L, DAVIS LOSES SUIT AGAINST BROTHER
TOMS llivElt, N. J., Dec. 13, The Jury in the attlt of Howard
I,. Davis, of New Egypt, against Ills blether. Malcolm j, Davis, 0r
Philadelphia, this afternoon returned a veulltt ot "no ciuis for no
tion." Huwiird iHoujrht Hiilt ixfinhist his lit other for 9100,000 I'mtiage
tor alleged alienation of the affections of IjIb wife.
FLOUR PRICES TUMBLE AT MINNEAPOLIS
MINNEAPOLIS, ,1)90, 10. Horn prices went tumliHu); 111 Mill
iirApolla today ns n lesult of ycsWdny'x sensational decline in wheat,
l'llscs v.'cre off twenty to sixty cjiits a barrel, tho bijj millets nn
nouuEcd. It viih the biggest slash in flour In many months.
PEACE TALK LOSES INFLUENCE AND STOCKS' GO UP
NKW YOltlC, Dec. 13. Wall ntrcut today mivv a illtect reversal of the condi
tion' rullnB In tho stoclt mnrltct jeslonlny. While the market showed much irreg
ularity In thn murnliiR session nnd ntoclts, after ntlvnnclnir, dccllncil only to ndvanco
ngnln. tliw tono wns tnticli Improved. It vvnH npparont that the proposals of jicaco
iiuhIp 1 tlermany, which cntiicil vvc.iltncn jestertlny, had lost their Influence.
Tho sloclt mnrhet ns a vvholo wan Htroni; In tho nftoriioon and tlicio wan n Rood
dcinnnil for ntoolti. (tains rnnged from one to more than three points. In tho
morning llctlilolicm' Hteel dropped font teen imlnlH, but five points of this Wore
rccov cred
JAPANESE STOCKS CRACK AT PEACE MOVE
TOIvlO. Dec. 13. The Tohlo Stock KxchiuiKc was clotod today because of the
tremendous shrlnknKo of vnluet In stbeks, oeciiRloned by (lermntivV pence overtures.
BIG INCREASE IN STATE FUNDS
IIAUItlSUUIUi, Dec. 13 Tho statement of the Treasury Department of the
amount of general fundi of tho Commonwealth of Pennsylvania shown tho total
on hand November 29. 191 C, exclusive of moncyH appropriated to tho slnklntr fund
to bo J1.680.4C3, an acalnsl ll.G4t.8S9 September 30, and Jl.399.917 January 1. 19l0.
Of tho total deposits of M,CS0.tC3, Philadelphia Institutions hold (758,302. ns nKnlnst
J205.03r. Heptembcr 30, 191C.
URGES $1,500,000 NAVAL LABORATORY FOR ANNAPOLIS
WASHINGTON. Dec 13. The Naval Advisory Uontd, of which Thomas Ktllsmi
Is tho held, linn recommended to Secretary Dinlcla tho eitnbllHlimcnt of tho nnvnl
experimental laboratory at AmiapolH Ouo and a lmlf million dollars, wan recom
mended for the establishment. The He,cretai Ih expected to neenpt the recommendation.
GERMAN WAR LOSSES
LONDON, Dec. 13. Uerinnny's total
vembcr were 3,921.859 men, according to
lists
Of this number 9tB,027 aro listed nn
J
GERMANS SEIZE TWO NEUTRAL SHIPS
ifaltl.tN, Dec 13 'On tho night of December tl Herman sou forces In Flanders
undertook uu mlvnnce nnd stopped tho Dutch .steamship palcdonlan,and tho Brazil
ian stenmshli) Illo Parda," nnld a I'rcsi Iliircau stnterncnt today. "Itoth wore loaded
with contraband en roulo for Kngland and were brought Into port."
CONGRESS RAILROAD PROGRAM OFF TILL JANUARY
WA8HINC1TON, Dec. 13 Conslilcintlon of President Wllson'H railroad leglsln
tfon proBtnm In ConBress probably will be delayed until after tho Christmas oil
days, according to plnns framed by Administration lenders today. Differences In
tho Senate Commltleo on Interstate and Foreign Commerce over tho Presldont'n
recommendation for compulsory Inve'stlgntlnn of strike)) nnd lockoutn Is expected
to Ui'lii.v the ralliond mearfurn In ItH iirocress to tho Sennto floor.
WILL TRY TO RELEASE STRANDED U. S. TRANSPORT
NKW YORK, Dec. 13 Wrecl.lni; tugs and coast Riiard cutters will attempt to
day to pull the United SlateH truusport ship Sumner off tho sands near Ilarnecat,
N. J., whero ho lum wallowed slnco early jeslcrdaj nfter boIiik ashore. It Is
feared that If the vessel Is not taken off Immediately the wnven will pound her to
pieces. C'nptnln Webber, 10 oflleerH and 118 men remained aboard tho ship all night
dlrtetlni; operations. The passeiiKcrH were hrouKht ashore jesterdiy.
HUGE INCREASE IN COTTON EXPORTS
WASHINtlTON, Dec. 13. Tho Department ot Commerce today announced tho
oxports of cotton during the week endlm; December 9 at the twelve Joint customs
districts: totaled Hfi.ltll bales, making a total slnco AubusI I of approximately
2,715,'.'6S bales. Hxports for torrcspondliiB periods In the preceding year Wero
98.D81 bales for tho week nnd 1.98S.K&2 bales after August I.
PRICE PROBER CANCELS WESTERN TRIP; GOES TO BOSTON
WASHINGTON. Dec. 13. CancolliiB bis plans to proceed Immediately to tho
middle AVest to nssumo personal illiectlor. or the Federal Orand Jury food probe,
vleorge W Andeison, special assistant to tho Attorney General, left hero late last
night for Hoston. Until today It was presumed he had gono westwurd.
ALLIES MAY GRANT SAFE CONDUCT TO AUSTRIAN ENVOY
LONDON, Dec. 13 Tho Foreign Ofllco iinnoum-i.' It la still communicating
with France In regard to u safe conduct for Count Tnrnovv von Tarnowskl,
recently appointed Austio-HmiBarlan Ambassador to tha United States. No hint
has been nlven regarding what will result fiom the negotiations, but It Is generally
believed In diplomatic circles here that the safe conduct will be granted.
I , , , ,
LITTLE GIRLS HERE AFTER 20,000-MILE TRIP
After travelling 20,000 miles to reach their father In Philadelphia, two Ilttla
Husslan Btrls, Hose Sorkln, aged six, and Hindu, aged five, ate now mastering
the English language In the WbartonHalston public school, Third and Lombard
streets. They traveled, with their mother through SlberJig from Vladlvostock to
Japan, then by another steamship to Seattle, thence across the continent. Tho
father' has been In American about five yeais.
MINERS BACK WHITE FOR THE PRESIDENCY
HA55LRTPN, !'., .Dec. 13, The 175,000 mlno workers throughout the anthra.
cite field and tho other B25.00O men In tha bituminous sections all over.the country
nnd Canadu have qted on the cleotlon of International ofllcers. John 1. White, of
Oskaloose, la-, will receive the bulk of tho Vote In the hard-coal region for presl.
denoy. Friends of the leader salif here that he would win by a big majority oyer
Thomas Walker, of Illinois.
I'"SI II ! Il US II ' II ' ! ' "
STiOVE STRIKE INVOLVING M.000 IMPENDS
ATLANTIC CITY, Dec. 13. A general strike In the stove trade, affecting H.QOQ
workmen and seyenty-flvo per cent of the stove output of the country.tnay bo the out.
come unless wage committee of the International Moldern' Union and the Btovu
Founders' Protective Association succeed In reaching a compromise, on wages and
working hours. Committee, went back.to work this mornlngat Haddon Hal), with,
a deadlock, which dates from Monday, still In effect The manufacturer' attitude
amounts to a flat refusal to ooneede either a seven-hour day or wage Increase,
SMILE MAY WIN HOME FOR ABANDONED BABY
A emlle may win a home for the slx-weeka-old baby that was found abandoned
jn a basket on a tombstone In Mounment Cemetery. The infant va found, by
policeman Rlnek, who took It to the Twentieth and Berks utreeU station. Onee
there the Infant smjied happily at Housa Sergeant (JhsUa Bornkesi, who,
deefeUd. Ut adopt It, It hu wiia to wllHaa- '
1010, it tnt reatio Lcmtx Cnurmt,
NEWS
3,921,859, LONDON SAYS
Iowa In tho war up to tho end of No.
lliruros based upon the official casualty
(lend.
.
PRICE ONE CENT
GRANGE FAVORS
OPTION IN PLAN
OF LEGISLATION
Woman Suffrage Aso
Urged in Program
Fixed Here
REVISION OP TAX
SYSTEM ADVOCATED
Farmers Seek Scheme to Re-
leve Present Burden on
Real Estate
FOR NATIONAL DRY LAW
Program for Legislation '
Fixed by State Grange
THE legislative program of the
Pennsylvania State Grange, which
wns presented nt the general moot
ing of the grnngo this nfternoon by
the legislative commltteo of ,tho
farmers' organization, declared in
favor of:
1
Local option.
2 Woman suffrngc.
. '
o Nntionnl prohibition.
A Conservation of resources, v
5 Revision of the system of
taxation, so ns to relievo tl)0
burden on real estate.
6 Reorganization of tho Strtto
Highway Department.
7 Vocational cducatlonMn tho
country schools nnd in
creased appropriations for them.
8 Tho budget system for State
e charity appropriations.
Declaration-! In favor of local option and
woman surfrnge were nmda In the legisla
tive program of tho Pennsylvania Stat
Orange, which was submitted to 'the farm
ers of tho State at this nfternoon's meeting
by the legislative committee of that body.
' The report of the commltteo waa &
lengthy one, and contained a score of re
commendations. In addition to location
tlon and suffrage, tho legislative comhil(ta
suited the 11 ran go to go on record In favor,
of nntionnl prohibition, a State nntl-treatlnst
.law, conservation of national resources, a,
revision of the present system of taxation,
so ns to relieve real estate of Its present
burden, new rends legislation. Increased ap
propriations for the country schools and th'
budget system of ftlnta appropriations te
chnrltablo Institutions,
ITHMS OV LIXlItiUVriON
Other leglslntldn favored Includes com
pletion of the denatured nlcohsl legUliU
tlon, the revision ot the Haugen bill on
oleomargerlne ns advocated by the National
Dairy Union, and an Increase In the weight
limit of parcel post packages.
Tho problem ot the high cost ot living
was touched upon only lightly. The com
mittee recommended In a general way legis
lation that "will tend not only to bring av
proper' compensation to the producer, but
also give to tho consumer those product
at n reduced cost."
Tho farmers of the State have had ta
bear tho "cost of economy of government,"
declared the report It quoted the following
exiumitee:
The cutting off of appropriations fo$
dirt roads in spite ot the law on the
statute boolis requiring State aid for
lowt.'jhlp roads.
The failure to provide the aid granted
by law for the wiping out of tubercu
losis In cattle.
Tho throwing hack pn local taxation
the cost of the primary elections.
Decreased appropriations for country
agricultural fairs.
Descending ratio for the maintenance
of the rural school system
TAX HKLIHr" BOUCIHT
The Interests of the farmers of the State i
and of the people of Philadelphia are Iden
tical, declared the report. The farmers. It
pointed out, ore the rural taxpayers and
the producers ot foodstuffs, and the people
ot Philadelphia are the city taxpayers and
the consumers of foodstuffs.
Investigations made by the Orange re
cently on the subject of taxation, have
shown, according to reports Issued by the
departments of Internal Affairs and p( the
Auditor rjenerai at HarrUdjurg, that real
estate has paid on the "valuation of four
and a half billions, a tax of over seventy
seven millions annually;: whereas personal
and corporate property of an assessed, valu
atlon of more than nine billions, wa paying
a tax of about twenty-five millions annually.
In uther words, according to the committee .
real estate has been paying a tax ot eigh
teen mills, while personal and corporate
property has been paying an average. tx
of only three and a half mills on each dollar
of assessed valuation. '
The result of the Increase In the coat of
conducting the State Government has httn,
said tho report, that during the last fijvr
years, the State has failed to pay to th
local governments the money It agreed ta
pay for the support of schools and nwN.
LITTLE DQY, BURNED TO DEATH
"Dared" by Youthful Compatiiwi Im
Play With Fire
CllBSTKR, Paw Dec. The tft
tragle death In Chester and vicinity in a.
week peeurred bere this morning wktn rp
year-old Zaloco Tarts, wis burned tatifatfc
t his boras, lit Wat JTroat .(, M
his mother w in a nearby iors,
The oy dared by hi thfp-rmt
brother, set sotne hair om ttr at Uti tM
aad hi tolWf if 4 ipwUfA
1
ImmMi
Ibbks" t-i
f
bttsjSWr1" -""'fes-J
&seMpgj
PfJO-! - 'Wm
