4 f-fjw
THE WEATHER FORECAST. '
Fair and colder to-day; to-morrow .air
and continued celd; west winds.
Highest temperature yesterday, 40: lowest, 31.
Detailed weather, mall and marine reports on page 15.
IT SHINES FOB. ALL
TEUTONIC POWERS ASK FOR PEACE PARLEY WITH ALLIES;
SURE OF VICTOR?; HOPE TO A VOID NEEDLESS BLOODSHED;
GERMAN CHANCELLOR SEEKS AID OF 3 NEUTRAL NATIONS
I '
- 1 " " "" " ' rvXTTT PUMT In Greater 'New Terk, ) Elsewhere
VOL. LXXXIV. NO. 1Q4. NEW YORK, WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 13, 1916. coPVn0M. n. y the sn idling Pum.Mng Aocuxtun. uxMCi umax Jtrtty cm two cent.
STOCKS TUMBLE
- ON PEACE NEWS
Transactions for Day Total 2,
338,000 Shares and $5,
052,000. in Bonds.
"WAR BRIDES" DROP FAST
Selling: Wave in Lust Hour
Causes Extreme ConfuHion
Rails Hold Well.
BERLIN MADE OFFER TO
BELGIUM WITH THREAT
Restoration of Country Prom
ised Only if End of War Is
Urged at Once.
The biggest day In slocks since the
war began followed the newB of the
Of i man Chancellor's peace proposals.
So far as Stock Exchange reporters were
able to record the transactions the turn
over was 3,358,000 shares, und $5,052,
000 In bonds. Actually the total trans
actions were much greater, for odd lots
were not taken Into the reckoning, and
In the busy times of the session trans
actions were made with such extreme
rapidity that It was a physical Impossi
bility to make rocoYds of them.
The Stock Exchange has had many
two million share days since tfie war
began, but almost without exception
these have been days of buoyant upward
markets, with the war stocks predomi
nating and all bullish traders making
paper profits excessively. Yesterday's
market told the roverse of that story.
It was altogether the widest break In
stocks In the last two years.
News of the German Chancellor's; pro
posals was flashed 'on ,the tickers about
half an hour utter the market opened.
In the first half hour of trading there
had been little excitement; some of the
Industrials declining a bit but mast of
the speculative share ruling steady.
Heavy selling by professionals on the
floor waa the first sign of what was to
hiDDen. The selling was followed Im
mediately by liquidating orders from the
commission houses, and soon the market
was teething.
Confusion In Last Hoar.
4
This selling movement continued un
til noon, bv which time more than it
million shares had changed hands. It
then occurred to H great many specula
tors that the German proposals might be
more of a diplomatic manoeuvre tnan a
serious proposition and there was much
covering by short contractu and a cessa
tion of the affrighted "selllni; of the morn
Ins. In the noon hour the mnrket be
came steadier nnd more orderly and re
coveries were general.
A second .wove of selling and one
which swept all before It, producing ex.
treme confusion, started In the last hour
on tccelpt of reports of the nature of
the Herman peace proposals. H seemen
then to the great majority of speculators
th.it the proposals had at least 'sufficient
reinning In thein to produce counter
pioposals from the Allies. The war
MOvks broke widely between sales. Mar
tin were uncovered In all the brokerage
liou"o. Stocks were thrown over in
abundance on stop loss orders. Declines
which In the morning had seemed great
loakcd tmall by comparison. Thero were
trllllUK recoveries In many Issues at the
rlnif. but no one attributed these to
e i thing more consequential than short
coining, and closing sales In most of
the active shures were alr-nr little abovb
the low prices of the day.
The railroad shares held up well, al
though, of course, the necessity of un
lrwlltis slocks for the protection of mar
tini In other stocks affected them.
In Table,
London, Dec. 13 (Wednesday). The
Dally Telegraph to-day prints promi
nently the following:
"We have lecelved Information from
an unimpeachable source that the Cen
tral Powers recently offered peace to
Ilclgium on the following terms: 'Th'e
Ilelglans are Invited to Insist upon Im
mediate peace. In return for this their
country will be restored to them. Its in
dependence guaranteed and financial as
sistance given for Its economic rehabili
tation.
"In the event of these terms being te-
fuscd the Intimation has been given to
Belgium that her very existence her
monuments, her public buildings
even her towns Is threatened."
and
WILSON AWAITS
PROPOSAL TEXT
Unofficial View Is That It Pro
vides Opening Wedge tor
Peace Talk.
DANGER OP REJECTION
Possibility, However, That
Terms of the Entente May
Be Revealed.
BERLIN ASKS HELP
FROM THE VATICAN
Pope Told Germany Realizes
Europe's Sad Future if
War Continues.
Decline Shown
,lut what happened to a score of In.
dustrlal stocks nctivo In the speculation
nr the last two years is shown by the
follow lug table giving the high price
rime the war. the low price yesterday,
Monday's closing, the gross decline from
the high price and the decline ycslcruay:
Net
Yev Grons I.om
Hlsh. ter- Mon- Ias e
(finer ilsy'a ilay's from ter
War. Low. Clou, llith. day.
A C 11 mm I9'i i "' ' V
Am iwt lWi 6'i 101 . "
.Mil Cm 6S'l W Mt
far lc Fury "5
Am l.m-o Vi'l H'i '')'
-ni.il St lUt IK'ijIW 113S IS
lluMwin Loio tliS. 13lj
AnaitiiKta MIS 91
Urthlrhem "M w9 lM m
Tent leather 13 lDl'a U5i -1
Crucible 109'i H W , 51',
t'ulu Cane Suar,. I6, b- eiS :1S
Kennrcotl U. M'i w
Marine 47'4 "H ?'
Marine lit 1IIH4 1104 115'.
N V Air llrake....lM! 155' 1 l'i J0H
Sleel Hiirint li M'4 S7V, Si,;
Iltpiibtle Sleel 91 7'J'i SS'i ll'i
In Alinhnl 170'i 13 ISA (4
1' S stirl 1ISH K3i IS
fiali Cornier no 1IS4 l'-H H
Wot Klec H'4 M'i Wt i
U S Hubber M?a 5'l
.Vet ((aim Mlm-e 111 1 4.
A table showing some twenty stocks at
their low prices on the day the exchange
(liiM'd in 1914 und their closing prices of
yesterday, with net gains, follows;
Net
Low day Yeitrr. tain
Kxi'hanre ilay'a alnce
cloiecl. UK, cloilutr. war.
lln Chalmers
Anifruan Hret ,. 13 PS'i
American Cm 19 Mi
Am Car 1 Foundry 41', Tl'i
American Locomotive 20'; W1, 5S'i
"n Smeltlni Heflnlng. 1M K'i
aliiii Locomotlre. 41 fi", ii
Mia'nnila 25 '-U
Ihlehem Sleel 30 ! ,
'-iitral leather , M lot'4 M
I'liKlble 75H
i uhi Cane Buiar M
Kenneroit , t'.
Mann. . 1 39I tf
M iriiw pi ll't JO'H
York Air rrse, JJ4
Hepuhlli Sleel UH WW S
In. Aliohol i3 , ,
flah Copper 41'4 114 '4
re.ilnihoue Electric 44'I MJ4 Uji
v s itnhber
C'i
4S
3'.
r,
5'i
4
5
IH
9i
4
13
i
Vi
J'
3T.
Hkiilis. Dec, 12. The note presented
by Dr. von Muhlberg, Herman Minister
to tho Vatican, to Cardinal Oasparrl,
Papal Hecrctary of State, follows:
"According to Instructions received I
have the honor to send to your Kml-
nence u copy of the declaration which
the Imperial (lorernment to-day. by the
good offices of tho Towers entrusted with
the protection of Herman interests In
thi countries with which the German
Umpire Is In a state of war, transmits
to these States, and In which the Im
perial Oovernmcnt declares Itself ready
to enter Into peace negotiations. The
Austro-Hungartan, Turkish and Hul
garlan governments also have sent simi
lar notes."
"The reasons which prompted Ger
many and her allies to take this step
are manifest. Tor two years and a
half a terrible war has been devastating
n.n Kiirnnpuii continent. Unlimited
treasures of emulation nnvc nri ,,r 1
stroyeti. rxieniuvu mnm n
toaked w1Hl Mood. MIlllonH of brave
soldiers have fallen In battle and mill
Ions have returned home as invalids.
Grief und sorrow nil almost every house.
"Not only upon the belligerent nations
but also upon neutrals the destructive
consequences of the gigantic struggle
.'.iKk ti.iivtlv. Trade and commerce.
carefully built up In years of peace, have
been depressed. Tho best forces of the
nations have been withdrawn from ne
production of useful objects. Kuropc.
which formerly was devoted to thn prop,
agation of religion and civilisation,
which was trying to solve solutions for
social problems and was the home or
science and art and nil peaceful labor,
now resembles an Innuendo war camp
In which the achievements and worka
of many decades are doomed to annlhl-i..inn
"fje'rm.inv Is carrying on ft war of
defence against her enemies, which aim 1
at her destruction. She fights ti as
sure tho Integrity or her frontiers and
the lllierty of tho German iatlun, for
tho right which she claims to develop
freely her Intellectual and economic en
erslcs In peaceful competition and on
an equal footing with other nations. All
the efforts or their enemies arc unable
to shatter .the heroic armies or the
Teutonic allies, which protect the fron
tiers or their countries, strengthened by
the certainty that the enemy shall never
pierce the Iron wall.
"Thoso fighting on the rront know that
they are supported by the whole nation,
which Is Inspired by love for Its country
and Is Ycady for the greatest sacrifices
nnd determined to defend to the last ex
iromiiv tho Inherited treasure of Intel-
wmai and economic work and tho so
cial organization and sacred soil of the
country. ,
'Certain of our own strength, but
realizing Kurope's Bad future If the war
continues; seized with plt' In tho face
of the unspeakuble misery of humanity,
the German Umpire. In accord with her
allies, solemnly repeats what tho Chan
cellor already lins declared n year ago,
that Germany Is ready to give peace to
ihe. world bv setting before the whole
world tho question whether or no It Is
possible to find a basis for an unacr
Htiinfllllff.
"Since the first day of tho pontifical
relcn his Holiness the Tope has un
hwcrvlnclv demonstrated, In the most
nencrous fashion, his solicitude for the
Innumerable victims of this war. He
hns alleviated tho sufferings and amell
orated the fate or thousands of men in
jured by this catastrophe. Inspired by
the exalted Ideas of his ministry, his
Holiness has seized every opportunity In
tjio Interest of humanity to end so san
guinary a wnr.
"The Imperial Government Is firmly
confident that the lnltlntlve of tho four
Powers will find friendly welcome on the
part of his Holiness und that the work
of peace can count upon the precious
support of the Holy See."
Washington. Dec. 12. Out of the
gloom caused by the' continuance ot the
devastating wpr In l-:u rope, has come the
first real ray of hope In the peace pro
posals made toay In the Reichstag by
Chancellor von Bethmann-Hollweg, and
communicated through neutral Govern
ments to the enemies of the Central
Powers. '
Regardless of whether or not Ger
many's proposal la acceptable and no
body believes It will be In Its present
form tho feeling In official circles In
Washington Is one of hope that this may
bo the entering wedge for a discussion
of peace. Once the discussion Is Initiated
it is the opinion that It will sooner or
later lead to aa termination of hostilities.
At any rate, this l the first definite
move by aay of the belligerents In the
direction of peace and marks the be
ginning of a new chapter In the his
tory of tho conflict.
BASIC FEATURES OF .
PROPOSAL BY GERMANY
All Territory Conquered on Either Side to Be Given
Up Except Serbia, Poland and Lithuania
Last Two as Independent Kingdoms.
WASHINGTON. Dec. 12. Though no definite word has reached the
German Embassy here with respect to the peace terms which Germany
offers, it is1 understood on high authority close to the embassy that they
are to be regarded as incorporating:
1. Complete restoration of Belgium.
2. Evacuation by Germany of all territory captured in north
ern France.
3. Establishment of Poland and Lithuania as independent
kingdoms.
4. Restoration to Austria of territory captured by Italy in the
neighborhood of the Adriatic Sea. '
5. Restoration to Germany of all her colonial possessions.
6. Retention of Constantinople by Turkey.
7. Retention of Serbia by Austria-Hungary and the restoration
to Bulgaria of all territory lost by that country in the second
.Balkan war.
(Though these terms tie not retarded in German circles as an irre
ducible minimum, they are viewed as embodying a fair basis for discussion.)
2 ARMIES GIVEN
TO GEN. NIVELLE
Verdun Defender Gets Forces
of the North and North
Propoaal Mot Yet Received.
Germany's proposal had not been reJ
eclved here up to a late hour to-night.
It was handed to Joseph C. Grew, the
American Charge d'Affalres In llerlln,
to be pent here for transmittal to Great
Britain. France, Russia, Helglum and
Rumania, whoe Interest the United
States Government represents. Al
though official word Is still lacking ow
ing to the slowness of the cable, It Is
understood that Identic" notes nre be
ing sent by the other Icvernment.i of
the Central Powers to their enemies.
It Is the understanding that this Gov
ernment Ins been asked merely to for
ward Germany's proposal or. In other
words, as Secretary Lansing describe?
"to act as a inessenccr" in the matter.
Word from Mr, Grew was anxiously
awaited at the State Department to
night and Instructions had been left o
Inform Secretary linslng at once so that
he could communicate with the White
House. If the message Is received Jur-
Ing the night It will he laid before the
President the first thing In tho morning,
The cueMicm that Is agitating Mli'lal
circles to-night Is whether this Govern
ment should take advantage of Ger
many's peace proposal to offer In ti sepa
rate communication Its good otllces as
a mediator or to suggee! that discussion
of peace would be desirable and express
Its earnest hope that It could be brought
about, with Germany's offer forming a
basis of negotiations!
Solely for the President.
All eyes to-night arc turned toward
the White House, It Is realized that
this Is a matter for the President solely
to deal with. Not until he knows the
..vnn. nnliira nf IHrt Mil I fllPH I Ifin CUll
h ,ii,i. tiiin,, iw rniirKn to follow In I army. He Is a jemnrkably open minded
wMU Is generally recognized as an ex-! man, alert for new suggestions and new
tromoif ii lrntn h luat on. mo omyii inventions inai lie may mrii io mnni'
statement forthcoming to-night from the
GERMAN ENVOY
OUTLINES MOVE
liernstorff Relieves Entente
Will Now ltevcal What It
Is Fighting For.
PEACE REMOTE,
LONDON VIEW
Germany's Move Regarded as a
Dramatic Stroke Lack
ing Sincerity.
OFFICIALS ARE RETICENT
Press and Public Arc Inclined
to Re Sceptical of the
Situation.
Special Note Sent to Pope Benedict
Embodies Text of Overtures
Through American, Spanish,
and Swiss Ambassadors in
Berlin Sees War Folly
SPEECH IN THE REIQHSTAG
DEVOID OF HATE FOR FOES
Piris, Dec. 13. Gen. Nlvclle. com
mander of the French troops ut Verdun,
has been appointed commander In chief
of the armies of the north and north
east. The oflk-lal announcement of this
appointment ' says it Is the first step
toward the reorganlaztlon of the hlgheT
command.
Sketch nf Mtrlle.
Gen. Hobcrt Georges Nlvelie, who suc
ceeded Gen. Petaln as the defender of
Wnlun. u'ik born of a Prcnch father and
un English mother. He in about HO years 1
old. having been reared In the Depart
ment of Correze, Tulle, where hiH mother
died In tho early 8iw.
When tho war begaln ho a colonel
In command of the Fifth Iteglment of
Artillery und was nbout to bp retired.
Hut In the days when Pnrls was threat
ened life illsplnyH remarkable genius nnd
In the battle of the Marne he did splen
did work. He was promoted t be gen
iral of brigade on October -M. 1914, nnd
n few weekh nflerward was placed In
I'liiiimnnd of the Wlxty-llrt-t Infantry Di
vision. On December 2.1. 1915, lie re
ceived his thiee stars and whs made
commander of the Third Army Corps.
During those mouths he was rreipicntly
under the ejo ot Joffre, who nlmost in
stantly selected him as a promising sol
Washington. Dec. II. Count von
liernstorff received word from the ller
lln Foreign Office early to-day regarding
the peace proposals. Afterward he au
thorized this ktatement :
."I am gratified by frre steps taken by
my Government and I think that even
If they should not result In peace they
at least are proof that Germany, even
In the height of a victorious campaign,
has no desire to prolong human woe and
suffering.
"Germany wants peace and does not
want compicst. I cannot say anything
about terms for the reason that I do
not know what they may be."
The Ambassador Is understood to re
gard the possibility of a discussion of
peace by the belligerents as the all Im
portant point involved In the proposal.
He jloes not believe that the Entente
AIIIct will refui-e even to "talk about
peace terms," and Is understood t be
lieve that an opening wedge 'may be
forthcoming which ultimately will lead
to an armistice and an understanding.
It Is not believed that the Ambassador
expects Great Mrltaln or her allies to
agree to Germany's proposal at once, or
to consider an Immediate cessation of
hostilities. The most he hopes for Is that
London, Dec. 11 (Wednesday), A
strong current of public sentiment op
posed to the German peace proposal was
evident In the first expressions available
last night both from public men and the
Ilrltlsh press, although these were with
out knowledge of any definite terms and
without any word from high autliorlta
live sources Indicating the attitude of the
Government.
Thoso In close association with the
new Government took the view that the
proposals would prove entirely unaccept
able, mainly because they were not likely
to touch what the ruling authorities re
gard as the most essential basis or any
peace, namely, such Guarantees against
German militarism as will permit Kng
land, France nnd their allies to demobil
ize their vast armies, reduce their enor
mous military expenses and return to
lasting conditions or peace.
The only Information in the pvsa re
ports wax from llerlln and In the ab
sence of noine tangible official proposi
tion Brltlsti officials were disposed to
maintain reserve. It was noticeable that
the proposal had not created any oro-
tounu impression . among the average
Iondoners. There was little talk In the
hotcta or other public places, and thin
discussion was far lew animated than In
the recent mlnlaterlal crisis.
"Our Aims Are Not to Shatter or to Annihilate
Our Adversaries," Says Kaiser's Spokesman
Bulgaria, Austria-Hungary and Turkey
Make- Similar Proposals to Entente
dlcr and placed creat reliance upon him. lMpy wlt lic wnK to iIIscukm tho matter.
Joffre always speaks of him as a "dls
cover"."
N'lvelle has the reputation of being a
strict disciplinarian, n great etrateglst
nnd the greatest gunner In the French
Ternnrnt Circle Aloof
Government circles nlso held aloof
rrom any dlscuenlon, with an evident de
sire to learn more or the details befoic
committing the new Administration to a
definite course of action. The Foreign
Office would make no comment In the
absence of the terms, Imt Indicated that
the Ilrltlsh attitude up to the present
mils embodied In the declarations made
troni time to time by the rormer Premier
nnd Vln-ount Grey and that any new
proposals would have to be considered
by all the F.ntente Allies before u dellulte
attitude was possible,
.ome early expressions. Indicating the
general drift of sentiment, were as fol
lows :
Hlr Arthur Oonan Doyle: "We want to
know more about the terms. Tor, without
them, the Imperial Chancellor's sugges
tion or peace Is preposterous nnd ridicu
lous. We, too, are conscious or victory,
apd nis boastings will be laughed at.'
'Not lilted on Stock Rxchani.
War stocks In the outside market were
1 i i, mil by tho" peace proposal. Hubmn
i lie llo.it sold down to 55 and Mldvule
Me l closed at 61. Magma Copper,
i' hi' li recently experienced a sharp rise,
ii 1 (iff qbout 4 polnta.
T ele was no Indication of peace In
li,, r ,,nfc.BM nurkiL whleh
m uaily rcHecti evMU of tMa kM Ant. au jimI TrkM Daily, im wy.-JV,
KILLS 2 CHILDREN AND SELF.
Secretary of Naval Training Sajp
Vrm Maaaslne Pistol,
Oustave Ilium, 35, secretary of the
United States naval training ship
Granite Htate, early this morning shot
and killed hla two children, John, aged
10, and Klsle, aged 4 years, at hla home
at 939 Morris avenue, Duntou, Richmond
Hill. U. I.
Ill inn committed tho act In. the lied
room of his home, using a magaxlne
pistol. Ho then fgrned the weapon upon
himself and committed suicide. All
three were deud when Dr. Harber ar
rived with an ambulance from tit. Mary's
Hospltl.-
CAMS m IIAVAN
niy si nourv ti v. .... " .
White House was that the President was
giving the most serious consideration to
the method to be pursued.
Germany's move to end the war was
discussed at this afternoon's Cabinet
meeting, but only in an Informal way,
as up to that time only the most rrag
nientary press despatches had been re
ceived. The President remained at Ills
olllco until 8 o'clock. At the Cabinet
dinner to-night he had .an opportunity
to talk further with the members of his
official ramlly nnd also with Col, K. M.
House, who came from New York this
afternoon for the dinner and Is a White
House guest. Col, House's visit at this
tlmo Is thought to be particularly oppor
tune, Inasmuch as his advice has been
continually sought by the President, and,
furthermore, he has visited Great Britain
and Germany during tho wnr nnd Is In
timately acquainted with the leading
statesmen of both countries.
Dralrr to lie Peacemaker.
It has long been known that the Pres
ident above all other things has de
sired to act a a peacemaker. Hut he
has taken .the position nil along that
until n proper opportunity arrives his
hands are tied. It Is recbRliUed at the
White House that there Is an Intense
feeling on this subject In this country.
The President has been urged by many
leading citizens in the last few months
to make eome move toward peace, but
having made an offer of mediation at the
lieglnnlng' or tho war, he has felt that
In the absence of any request ror nun
to net In this role from any of the bel
ligerents It would be unwise' for him
to take such action.
The disposition of the leaders in con
gress In bom nouses is ,tn leave ine
President absolutely untrnmmciieu in
this situation. Any action In Congress
designed to move his hand will ho discouraged,
Congress Appear Divided,
As to the wisdom and propriety of
any action by this Government beyond
that of merely forwarding tho German
proposal, the opinion ot members of
Congress Is divided. The preponderance
of sentiment, ir anything, appears to ne
against It. The general disposition of
membera of the Foreign Relations Com
mittees of both houses was to louk upon
the peace proposal, as reported In press
deinatches. as probably fruitless. Home
Benators were of tho opinion that any
move by the President at this time would
be 111 advised. Others, hbwever, be
lieved thai the President would be Inst I
fled and pointed to the action taken by
President Roosevelt nnd the result thut
flowed from It,
The diplomatic representatives of the
Entente Allies are sceptical and expect
tage. Ills aeiioolates say or nun mat ne
Is such n skilled gunner that nobody
needs a range finder when the General Is
around.
A Maa-nrtlc Leader.
Gen. Nlvelie won Joffre's admiration
because he li such a magnetic leader.
Despite his strlctnei-s he always ban
commanded the enthusiasm of his sol
dlers. lie Is Is said to reeinhle the
portraits of Cardinal ltlchclleu. He It
quick In action and gives the Impres
sion of having great physical strength
and mental energy.
The General, proud or the nationality
or his mother, speaks English fluently
and profei-ses a Veen (idmlrntlon for
Kngland. He Is fond of old time English
war verse, llko "The Rattle nf the Ralllc."
'The llurlal of Silr Jolin .Moore ami
Hohenllnden." Ho translated Into
French "The llurlal of Sir John .Moore."
Speaking of his relationship to tho
English he wiote recently: "Since the
beginning of the war I have followed
with the greatest Interest and admira
tion tho Ilrltlsh navy's methodical as
sertion of the command or the wi. I
only hope that some day the German
fleet will come out and give It the op
portunity It so anxiously awaits.
1 . ..... Kl..ll-U .ll.'l.ln.
A VIHIllir IU IC11. ,i"cin " 'iiti-nu'i
wrote recently :
Gen. Nlvelie. with his gray muftaciie
and his small Imperial, Is a mugnlflcent
typo or the French soldier whoso eneigy
and endurance checked the rush or tho
German Invasion across Europe. He Is
never so happy as when In the nrst
trenches and under Hie, and his deter
mination to Bee Tor himself everything
that hapiiens often leads him Into posl
tlons nf considerable risk. His men would
follow him unywhere."
He believes that nubile, opinion, not only
In neutral countries, but In the countries
or tne Entente, win sanction giving con
sideration to peace dlscuslsou.
Should the Entente decline to consider
Germany's proposal the Ambassador be
lieves they will be at least duty bound to
Inform the world what they aro lighting
for. Ills position Is that Germany has
now made It clear that conquest Is not
the object of prolongation or the war t-o
r.ir as Germany Is concerned, and that
Great Ilrltaln and her allies must either
admit that they aro fighting to "crush
Germany" or consider the offer to stop
fighting.
And If the Entente goes on record as
continuing the war to crush "Prussian
militarism" which to the Ambassador
menim the German nation ho believes
that neutral nations as well as belliger
ents should fully understand It.
WHEAT PRICES BREAK.
0MliMued oh Second fuo.
i
'WANTS CARTE BLANCHE"
Amsterdam Saa German Offer Has
Sinister Purpose Back nf II,
Sptiial Cable Denpateh to Tiis Sin from tht
London Timet.
Amsterdam, Dec. 12. The Telcpraaf,
commenting on the German peace offer,
says :
"It Is. meant imrtiy in convince tne
armies and peoples nf tho Central Pow
ers that peace Is Impossible because tho
Entente I ejects all the proposals and
therefore the supreme command must ,he
given caito blanche In Ihe prosecution of
all further requisite measures, partly
It Is Intended In ersilHde neutrals In
grant Germany carle blanche In all the
f rightfulness necessaty in produce peace.
Which Is possible only with further tier
man victories."
i. Ilnuli'. M Wtvttrv Arlnk? arf.lu
I oiw .strength and courage. .Irft'f rlms(,
Pence .riT Cnniea Wild Excite
ment In 1'hlcnno I'll,
Ciiicauo. Dec, II, Wheat values
plunged wildly downward twice tO-daj
llrst, on account of Germany's reported
overtures for peace, and secondly, owing
to traders' assumption of a likelihood
that tho character nf the terms reported
to have been offered for discussion would
bring about an acceptance. Extreme
breaks In prices reached 11 Uc a bushel
and were accompanied by transactions
amounting to millions of bushels.
Closing quotations of the day wero at
nearly the bottom level touched, with
the market as a whole tri 10nj under
yesterday's finish and with May at 163
to 1B.1?; and July lit H2?i to 143. Ex
citement In the pit reached the acme In
tho last half hour, when attention was
concentrated on Washlngon advhjcs sain
to emanate from the German Embassy
nnd giving an outline of the offer that
Rerlln wns presumed to have submitted
for transmittal through Washington to
the opponents of Germany, It was not
until hours luter that the fact was
known In Chicago that definite ternm of
peace had not been detailed In Chan
cellor von llethmaim-HnlJweg'a speech
to the German Relchstng.
Corn mid oatn felt tho effects of the
peace news to a much less extent than
wheat.
BERLIN, Dec. 12. Chancellor von Bethmann-Hollweg
announced to the Reichstag that Germany and her allies
to-day proposed to enter forthwith into peace negotiations.
The propositions which they will bring forward are, ac
cording to the Chancellor, appropriate for the establishment
of a lasting peace.
The Austrian, Turkish and Bulgarian Governments arc making sim
ilar proposals. These proposals have been transmitted nlso to the Vatican.
The following announcement was given out to-day by the semi
official Overseas News Agency:
"The Chancellor this morning received on after another the repre
sentatives of the United States of America and Spain and Switzerland,
that is, of the States protecting German interests in hostile foreign coun
tries. The Chancellor transmitted to them a note and asked them to bring
it to the knowledge of the hostile Governments. The note will be read
to-day in the Reichstag by the Chancellor.
"In the note the four allied (Central) Powers propose to enter forth
with on peace negotiations. The propositions which they bring for such
negotiations are, according to their firm belief, appropriate for the
establishment of a lasting peace.
"The governments at Vienna, Constantinople and Sofia transmitted
identical notes and also communicated with the Holy See and all other
neutral powers."
Text of Peace Note to Entente Power.
Following is the text of the note addressed by Germany and her
i-.llies to the hostile governments:
"In the midst of the most terrific war ever experienced in history,
which has been raging for the last two years and a half over a large part
of the world a catastrophe which thousands of years of common civili
mtion was unable to prevent and which injures the most precious achieve
ments of humanity, our aims arc not to shatter or annihilate our ad
versaries. In spite of our consciousness of our military and economic
strength and our readiness to continue the war (which hus been forced
upon us) until the bitter end if necessary, at the same time prompted
by the desire to avoid further bloodshed and make nn end to the atrocities
of war, the four allied Powers propose to enter forthwith into pcaco
negotiations.
"The propositions which they bring forward for such negotiations
nnd which have for their object a guarantee of the existence of the honor
nnd liberty of evolution for their nations are, according to their firm
The Marquis of I.ondonderry : "We i belief, an nnnronriate basis for the establishment of n lnstintr none.
have got to win the war. Peace at the
Defending Justice and Liberty.
"Tlu four allied powers huvw been obliged to take up iirtus to defend,
juMloe ami the liberty of imttonul evolution. The glorious deeds of our
armies have In no way altered their purimse. We have always uiiiln
inlned the llrni belief tlmt our own rights and JuMllk'tl claims la no wiiy
control the rights of thes-e nations.
"The .spiritual mid material progress which were tho pride, of Ihutipe
nt the iH-ginuing of the twentieth century are thrciiteued with ruin. Uer
niuny and her nlllesAsistro-Hiiiigar.v, Ilulgurln und Turkey, gave proof of
their unconquerable' strength In this struggle. They gained gigantic ml
vinitiigei over adversaries superior In number ami war iniiterlnl. Our lines
slnnil uii-huken nguliist ever repented attempts made by armies.
"The u-t attack in the Iliilkmis has been rapidly and victoriously
overcome. The most recent events have ileinoiistratcil that further con
tinuance uf tho war will not result In breaking the rcslstnuci! of our
forces, and the whole situation with regard to our troops justiilcs our
expectation of further suecesse?.
"If In spite of this offer of peace and reconciliation the struggle
should go on, Ihe four allied jwver.s are resolved to continue to a vic
torious eiiu, nut nicy disclaim responsibility for this before humanity
And history. The Imperial (loveriiiiicnt, through thi good unices of Your
i:celleuey, ask the government of (here Is inserted tho name of the
neutral power addressed in each Instance) to bring Ihis communication
to the knowledge of the government of (here are. Inserted the names ot
Ihe belligerents),"
Chancellor in Side Remarks.
Chancellor von Itetliniann-Hollweg
111 Ills speech to the Reichstag said that
German-, together with her allies,
"conscious of their responsibility Ik.
fore Clod; liefore their own nations, lie.
fore humanity," had proposed thlN
morning to the hostile Powers to enter
on peace negotiations.
The Chancellor then read the text of
neutial countries und
present time would bo disastrous to the
nation and the empire. It Is only a ques
tion or time, and we will win out absolutely."
Would Demobilise Armies,
Principal llurrows of King's College:
"So peace Is possible on the basis that
Germany Is victorious."
Sir Gilbert Parker nfter mingling with
his associates In the House of Commons
said : "This Is clearly a political manoeu
vre designed to Impress tho world as a
dramatic stroke but luivlng little serious
purpose toward securing an enduring
peace, lino of tho chief essentials of
any peace would be such a curbing or
German militarism that a resumption or
the present conflict would be Impossible,
Without such a Kim an tee England and
I'rance would be compelled as a matter
of self-defence to retain vast armies and
thus continue the enormous war burdens
I of the present Instead or being per
mitted to resume peace with the assur
ance that they will not again be plunged
I Into war."
One of the members or the House or
Lords who Is Identified prominently with
the league o enforce future peace, to
which President Wilson and Viscount
Grey have given approval, said:
"The ipiestlon of present peace Is an
entirety different question from securing
un arrangement for the maintenance of
future peace. Germany has chosen un
unfortunate moment for proposing pres
ent peace. She probably thinks that her
successes In Rumania make the present
moment niiKplelous ; but, on the contrary,
Ilrltlsh public opinion Is Just now deeply
aroused by the German atrocities In the
deportation of Belgians nnd Trench
under circumstance of Incredible
cruelty. There will be no prospect of
peace while German J5epellns make
raids over London, killing women and
children III an unfortified city, and while
deportation or the ilerencelcss peasantry
of small countries is kept up. The stop
ping of such conditions will do more to
have a peace ptoposnl favorably received
than nny boast of victory In Rumania."
1,000 KILLED IN HAMBURG RIOT
London Dally Kxpresa" Hears ot
Outhrrnk quelled by Troops,
Uinpon, Pec, 13' (Wednesday), The
Kjrr claims to have reliable liuor-
niutlon that the most serious riots took
1 nlacn In Hamburg on December 7, 8
and 0, It says that It la estimated
that inoro titan 20,000 peaplo partlcl
pated In the rioting and Hint a thou
sand were wounded or killed.
Acoordlng to this story the local sol
diery wns unable to quell the disturb
uhrr ami It was ncvosaafy to send
troops to Hamburg on sTetinl trains
from llerlln, Thero Is no confirmation of
this ftury from an other source.
V.i Reply, Sn Daily Unit."
Lord Northcllffe s Dnilv Mail scorns
tho German peace pioposal.
"The nation has wound up the old
gang in the very nick ut time." It says,
"It must have been a source of tin llttlo
nnnoyance to Vim Hethmnnn-llollweg
when he onca more prouueeu in tne
Reichstag the Impudent old peace trick,
which by this time Is becoming as hack
neyed as conjuring rabbits out or a 'hat
that the Haldaiie camarilla wero no
longer in olllco In Great Ilrltaln to argue
seilously with him and be fooled Into
inactivity by his meaningless speech,
"Hethmnnn-llollweg Is no more en
titled to tho courtesy of a reply than If
he were an armed burglar In a private
home. Ills offer would never have been
made If he were in his henrt half as con
fident of victory ns he professed to lie.
"Tho Allies know thai no peace with
a nation or tigers and murderers aim
statesmen Who reganl all tieaties ns
scrape or paper would be worth tlin
paper and Ink, So long aa Germany lias
(Continued on Second Page.)
the note to the
continued :
"Gentlemen, In August, 1914, our
enemies challenged the nupeilorlty of
power In the world war. To. day we
I also the question of, peace, which li u
question of humanity, We await the
answer of our enemies with that serene
uess ot mind which Is guaranteed to us
by our exterior and Interior strength
ami ny our clear conscience, if our
enemies decline to end the war, If they
wish to take upon themselves the
world's heavy burden of nil theso terrors
which hereafter will rollow, then even
In the least and smallest homes every
German heart will burn In sured wrath
against our enemies who arc unwilling
to stop human slaughter In order that
their plans of conquest and annihilation
may continue.
God Will Be the Jndae."
"In the fateful hour ne took a fateful
decision. It has been saturated with the
blood of hundreds of thousands of our
sons and brothers who gave their lives
for the safety of their home. Human
wits and human understanding nre un
able to reach to the extreme and last
questions in this struggle of nations.
which has unveiled all -the terrors of
earthly life, but also the grandeur ot
human courage and human will la ways
never seen liefm,.. nod will h n,.-.
Judge. We can proceed upon our win "
The Chancelloi outlined the extraouli
nary political Munition and then, IiwIm.
Ing iMu the nclilt vcments of the Cen
tral Powers, said :
"The Reichstag li.nl nut been adjourned
for a long period, but linliinateh was
left to the iliscntlon of the piesldent as
to the day or the net meetliw. This de
clslon wan caused by tho hope that soon
happy events In the tlelJ would bo re
corded, a liopo fulfilled quicker almost
than cxjicrtcil, 1 ha l ,i u-f, for ne
tlona speak for themselves."
llliniintlH'n I'nlllire In Hunt,
The Chancellor said Rumania had en
teied the war lu ni-ler to roll up the lift
man positions in tho cast and tlne nf
Germany's allies. At the same tlmo tlio
grand offensive nn the Knmmc hail aa It
object to pierce the German western
front and the tinewed Italian nttsckh
wero Intended to parable Ailstrla-Huu-gary.
"The situation was scrinus." the Chan.
ccllor continued, "Hut with God's help
our troops shaped conditions so as in
give us security which not only is com.
pleto but still more so than ever before.
The western front stands. Mot only
does It stand, but In spite of the Ru
manian campaign It Is tilted out with
larger reserves of men und material
than It had been former)).
Precautions Aaalnat Onrush,
"The mot effectle precautions h.ivo
been taken against all Italian diversions.
And while on tho Soiume and on tho
Carso the drum fire resounded while' the
RuMlani launched troops against rh
....I i 'in i, Mim; i -:.'...;'.'.. .1 r ,m n i , am n,. ..r:,-..i
