MARKETS
NEW YORK CITY
Average price of cop
per for week ending
Dec S, 32.95.
WEATHER
mm
Arizona Generally
fair; warmer in the
south portion
Associated Press Special Leased Wire Service.
VOL 19. NO. 161.
BISBEE, ARIZONA, WEDNESDAY MORNING, DECEMBER 13, 1916.
PRICW FIVE CENTS
F
A
CE
TR
WEBS
OFFFER-
FLATTERING
U. S. ISSUES
mm i au
Controversies Over Sinking of
Ships and Robbing of Mails
Mark Time in Hope Peace
May Now Be Near.
ARMISTICE MAY SOON
BE BROUGHT ABOUT
But If Allies Reject Proposals,
America Will Press Her
Problems on Both Oppon
ents in Great War.
t
(By Review Leased Wire.)
The immediate effect of the
peace developments on the Unit
ed States will be to hold practi
cally in abeyance all the diplomat
ic issues pending with the war
ring countries. The new submar
ine issue with Germany, the pro
test aq?inct deportation of Bel
gians, the controversy with Great
Britain over mails and commerce,
all will mark time until tl be
comes apparent whether they bs,
' solved by the advent of peace.
Is Favorable Sign
Regardless of how far Germany's
proposal may be expected to go to
ward ending the war. it was regarded
as of greatest significance that the
first time in two years of war one
group of belligerents had addressed
the other through the channels of dip
lomacy. Armistice Proposed
In German quarters here it is
thought that an armistice during the
discussion of peace -plans might be
declared. In the event of failure of
overtures probably, would see the op
ening of the spring campaign without !
anything accomplished, while the cen
tral powers, it is said, are encourag
ing peace talk.
The actual procedure in conveying
Germany's proposal to ber enemies,
according to precedent, begins with
'Charge. Grew forwarding the note to
Washington. The state department
then will forward it to the American
ambassador, resident in the country,
to be addressed, and he in turn will
present it to that government acting
in the interest of Germany and her
allies.
SAYS GERMANY OFFERED
BELGIUM SEPARATE PEACE.
LONDON, Dec. 12. The Daily Tele
graph today prints prominently the
following:
"We have received Information from
an unimpeachable source that the Cen
tral Powers recently offered peace to
Belgium on the following terms:
" 'The Belgians are invited to insist
upon immediate peace. In return for
this their country will be restored to
them, its independence guaranteed and
financial assistance given for its eco
nomic rehabilitation.'
"In the event of these terms being
refused, the intimation has been given
Belgium that her very evistence her
monuments, her public buildings and
even her towns are threatened."
AT
WILL HWHII
AGIN BY
ALLIES
Wheat Values Plunge Down
1 1 Cents On Peace Rumors
(By Review Leased Wire)
CHICAGO, Dec. 12. Wheat values
plunged wildly downward twice today
first on account of Germany's re
ported overtures for peace and sec
ondly owing to traders' assumption of
a liklibood that the character of the
negotiations would bring about peace.
Breaks in prices reached 11 cents a
bushel and were accompanied by
transactions amounting to millions of
bushels.
Closing quotations of the day were
at nearly the bottom level touched
with the market as a whole t to
10 under yesterday's finish. Hesi
tancy in the. wheat market after the
first break in prices was the result of
Battleship Arizona
Disabled Off Cuba;,
Limps Back to V. S.
Turbines Are Crippled During
Manouevers, Leaving Only
Port Engine Working Due
in Port December 18.
NEW YORK. Dec. -12. The battle-
atin An'vnno nut into commission re
cently and regarded by naval experts
as the speediest and most efficient
American dreadnaught, is proceeding
north along the Atlantic coast with
only her port engine supplying motive
power and with her starboard tur
bines crippled, according to word re
ceived at the Rrooldyn navy yard to
day. The turbine gave way while the
battleship was engaged in tactical
maneuvers oft" Guantanamo, Cuba, ac
cording to the information. The ves
sel is expelled to arrive here Decem
ber IS.
Ship Is Sinking
Off Nova Scotia
' (By Review Leased Wire.)
BOSTON, Dec. 12. A radio message
stating that the steamer Grilse was
sinking fast off Cape Race, was picked
up by one jf the wireless stations on
the New England coast tonight. The
message said:
"Steamer Grilse off Cape Race,
latitude 43.40 nbrth, longitude 64.50
west sinking fast. Immediate danger.
Send help."
The distress message was picked up
by the United Staytes oil supply steam
er Kanawha which arrived at Rock
land, Maine, yesterday from Mare Isl
and. California, to undergo her trial
trips on the government course. The
Kanawha at once relayed the message
to all stations and ships within reach
jf her radio outfit.
SENATE FAVORS
BARRING ALL
Vote In Favor of Excluding
Hindus Also from U. S.,
Excepting Colored Men If
Treaty Demands, Only.
(By Review Leased Wire)
WASHINGTON. Dec. 12. After an
other day of debate over the exclusion
of aliens on account of race, the Senate
late today adopted the committee
amendment to the immigration bill
which will bar Hindus and certain
other Asiatics without mentioning
them by name, with an added provision
stipulating that nothing in the act
shall be construed to repeal any exist
ing law, treaty or agreement which
serves to prohibit or restrict immigra-
This added stipulation, proposed by'
Senator Phelan. of California, is de-
signed to replace the direct reference
to the stalled "gentlemen's agree-
ment" with Japan, which was stricken
out of the House bill by the senate
committee at the request of the state
department
The committee amendment pre
scribes certain geographical areas
from which immigrants shall not be
(Continued on Page Three)
opinions expressed by leading traders
that a refusal on the part of Great
Britain and her allies to treat on the
bas's of supposed German offer would
doubtless bring about a sharp rebound
in wheat nrires. whereas anv serious I
peace discussion might cause a ma-jPower ln tne world war- Today wt
terially lower range of values. raise the question of peace, which is
Corn and oats felt the effects of the !a qvastion bf humanity. We await the
peace news to a much less extent than i answer of our enemies with that se
wheat. Pork and ribs also were coin reneness of mind whiclr Is guaran
paratlvely stable, despite the excite-, teed to us by our exterior and interior
ment in wheat. On the other hand, strength and by our ch ar conscience.
lard jumped up 55 cents for the day,
the general idea being that bl:; ship
ments of lard would be wanted In Cen
tral Europe if the movement for peace
proved a success.
n mi unit i
LONDON IS
mm i
nnnr !
MLrtl'L
rLnuL
But Government Is Silent, Ap- j '
pearing Skeptical, But Wil-j
ling to Put Proposal Up to!
All Entente Powers. I
SOME SAY PEACE NOW
WOULD BE SUICIDE
Proposal Is Believed Merely
Political Only Peace Guar
anteeing Allies in Future Is
Welcome, They Hold.
(By Re vie Leased Wire.)
LONDON. Dec. 13. A strong cm
rent of public sentiment opposed to
the German peace proposal was evi
dent in the .expressions last night
both from public men and the British
press, although these were without
any word from high authoritative
sources indicating the attitude of the
government.
It was noticeable that the proposal
had not created any profound impres
sion among the average Londoners.
There was little talking in the hotels
or other public places.
Britain Skeptical
Government circles also held aloof I
from any discussion. The foreign of
fice would make no comment in the
absence of the terms, but indicated
that the British attitude was embod
ied in the declaration made from time
to time by l'remier Asquiih and Vis
count Grey, and that any new propos
als would have to be considered by
all the entente allies before a definite
attitude was possible.
Forecast Rejection
'Those in close connection with the
new government took the view that
the proposals would prove entirely
unacceptable, mainly because they
were not likely to touch what the rul
ing authorities considered as guaran-
jtees aSainst German militarism that
j will permit England, France and their
allies to demobilize their vast armies,
reduce their enormous military ex
penses and return to lasting condi
tions of peace.
Some expressions, indicating the
general drift of sentiment, were as
follows:
Sir Arthur Conan Doyle:
"We want to know more about the
terms for, without them, the imperial
chancellor's suggestion of peace is
preposterous and ridiculous."
The Marquis of Londonderry:
"We have got to win the war. Peace
at the present time would be disas-
lo u,e a,u "" K "
on'y a QUon 0f time and e will
win out absolutely."
Principal Burrows, of Kings Col-.
lege:
"No peace is possible on the basis -
that Germany is victorious." i
Sir Gilbert Parker, after mingling j
with his assistants In the House, j
said:
"This is clearly a political maneu
ver designed to impress the world as
u dramatic stroke, but having little
(Continued on Page Four)
Every Heart In Germany Will Burn In Sacred
(By Review Leased Wirel
BERLIN. Dec. 12. After reading
the note, the chancellor said in part:
"Gentlemen, in August, 1914, our
enemies challenged the superiority of
If our enemies decline to end the war;
if they wish to take upon themselves '
the world's heavy burden of all these the terrors of earthly life, but also and its representatives would support gium there ls a continuation of artil
terrors which hereafter will follow. I the grandeur of human courage, and j the chancellor In a policy which was . lery activity and small operations by
then even in the least and smallest i human will in ways never seen before j far sighted and intelligent. 'patrol parties. An unofficial dispatch
NEW FRENCH CABINET
CONTAINS FIVE MEN.
PARIS, Dec. 12.- The new
French cubinet. according to an
unofficial llbt available tfxlay. Is
comprised a follows:
Premier and Minister of For
eigu Affairs Arislide liriand.
.Minister of Finance Alexandre
Uibot.
Minister of War Gen.' Hubert-
L. Yauley.
Minister of Marine Rear Ad-
miral. Lacase. '
. Minister of Fabrication Nation-
ale including munitions and
I transportation Albert Thomas.
The five toregoing cabinet mem-
bers will form a council of na-
tional defense.
TEXI OF HUE
(By Review Leased Wire)
. BERLIN, Dec. 12. Following is
the ';ext of the note addressed by
Germany and her allies to the hos .
tile governments: '
"The most terrific war ever ex
perienced in history has been rag
ing for the last two years and a
half over a large part of the world
a satastrophe which thousands
of years of common civilization
was unable to prevent, and which
injures 'the most precious achieve
ments of humanity. Our aims are
not to shatter or annihilate our
adversaries. In spite of our con
sciousness of our military and
economic strength and our readi
ness to continue the war (which
has been forced upon us) until the
bit'.er end, if necessary; at the
same time, prompted by the de
sire to avoid further bloodshed
and make an end to the atrocities
of war, the four" allied powers
propose to enter forthwith into
peace negotiations.
For Lasting Peace
"The propositions which they bring
forward for such negotiations and
which have for their object a guaran-
tee of the existence of honor and lib-
erty of Europe are according to their
Am, hiir n nnmnrira hia fnr
the establishment of a lasting peace. hands, probably tomorrow.
"The four allied powers have ben j Wilson to Take Part. Terms Are Vague,
obliged to take up arms to defend jus- There were indications that Presi-1 The absence, of any specific terms
tice and the liberty of national evolu- !lent Wilson might find some way to j for peace in the note, or in the Ger
tinn The elorioim deed of our ami-' Mpress the s'olemn and earnest wi.-hman chancellor's speech was in a
les have in no way altered their pur-
pose. We .always maintained the firm
belief that our own rights and justi-
fied claims in no way
rights of these nations.
control the
Far From Subdued
"The spiritual and material prog
ress which was the pride of Europe at
the beginning of the Twentieth Cen
tury are threatened with ruin. Ger
many and her allies, Austria-Hungary
Bulgaria and Turkey, gave proof of
their unconquerable strength in this
struggle. They gained gigantic ad
vantages over adversaries superior In
number and war material. Our lines
stand unshaken against ever repeated
attempts made by enemies.
"The last attack in the Balkans has
been rapidly and victoriously over
come. The most recent events have
demonstrated that further continu
ance of the war will not result in
. ' 8 T T . , J
and the whole situation with regard
to our troops justifies our expectation
of further successes.
ir, in spue oi hub oner or peace
and reconciliation, the struggle should
go on, the four allied powers are re-
solved to continue to a victorious end
but they disclaim responsibility for
this before humanity and history.
The imperial government through the
good offices of your excellency, asks
the government of (her is inserted
(Continued on Page Four)
Wrath If Allies Refuse Peace, Says Chancellor.
I
homes every German heart will burn
in sacred wrath against our enemies,
who are unwilling to stop human
slaughter, in order that their plans of
conquest and annihilation may con
tinue. "In a fateful hour we took a fateful
decision. It has been saturated with
the blood of hundreds of thousands of
our sons and brothers who gave their
lives for the safety of their homes.
Human wits nnd human understand
ing are unnble to reach to the ex
treme and lust questions In this strug-
c! of nations, which has unveiled all
ILL IE
if im
IF ALL
Whole World Now Awaits Allies9 Reply
Opportunity For America to Play Her Part
Is Here; President Hopeful of Armistice
Germany's proposals, it is believed, will be practically fo ra restoration of political boun
daries as they were before the war. They may seek recognition of Russian Poland as an in
dependent kingdom, freedom of the Russian kingdom of Lithuana, the evacuation of Bel-'
gium, restoration of northern France, and the retention of all Germany's colonies. Ger
many will relinquish all claim to Kiachau, taken by Japan. The Balkans and Trentino reg
ion must be untangled in the proposed peace conference. The gateways of control to India
are left in doubt,. Alsace and Lorraine, it is believed, are to be retained by Germany.
VASHINGTON, Dec. 12. Germany V proposal for peace is regarded here as having
broken the chains which for months have restrained the United States as well as other neu
trals from making offers of mediation.
Now that one set of belligerents has signified its willingness to discuss peace terms a
condition often reiterated as necessary to any action by President Wilson there are indi
cations that when the United States acting as the intermediary, transmits the proposal, it may
justify its action by some action to throw the influence of the United States into the bal
ance however preliminary that peace might be brought to the world.
League or nations Alay Kesult
j Some ranking officials of the American government believe a league of nations such as
j President Wilson has suggested, must be the outcome and it could not be perfected with
i out the participation of the United States.
President Will Get Note Today,
j Whether the United States will transmit the German proposal without anv comment
whatever, or accompany it with some formal or informal expression will not be decided
! ..i.t , . r j ' A . r i- i r-. . .-,.1 .
i untl1 the note, dehevered to American Charge Urew in Berlin reaches President Wilsons
ul 1 "llra o' Ior cureiui con-
j8'derat'on of the subject of peace, even
, before the entente governments have
make known their attitude toward the
'German proposal. This, it was point
jed out, would necessarily be done in
such a delicate and ultra-confidential
way that it never will be known pub-
licly should the allies decline the of-,
fer. This course was said to be ab-; formation on the matter are awaiting ; the Indian empire are not made clear,
solutely necessary so as to leave the j further details. 1 Balkans in Doubt
I'nited States free and unembarrassed I Same a, Before WaP j The BaIkan situation ia consIdered
to act when an acceptable peace offer A restoration of tne BtatU8 quo ex.so deiirate it would have to be un-conles-
isting before the war. This Includes tangled in the peace conference. Tao
Sound Out Allies. the evacuation of Belgium and the re-j whole German view of the peace move
Regardless of whether, President ' storation of the 'occupied portions of is that a discussion of peace terms
Wilson decides to accompany the Gei northern France with the exception of ought to show some definite progress
man proposal with any word, it was i Alsace and Lorraine, which probably , early in January. There is said to be
said tonight, he unquestionably Ould will be one of the provisions. It was ! no possibility of a peace conference
take steps to learn the attitude of the also understood that no condition : being held in the United States. Berne
entente allies toward the peace move, anrtiunting , to the retention of the and the Hague are mentioned as most
and possibly might send to Europe his mineral lands of northern France ; likely places, and it is not doubted
personal friend and advisor. Colonel would likely be asked. All Germany's j that Count von Bernstbrff would go as
K. M. House. ,ost colonies, she txpects to be re- j one of his country's representatives.
turned. Her possessions in the Pact-1 His attitude was expressed tonight in
President Wont Talk. (jc however, are not a subject of the following statement:
None of the official dispatches had jjreat COncern and the Berlin govern-; Bernstorff Elated,
arrived tonight. The government's nient ls understood to be ready to re- "I am. of course, extremely gratified
first information was conveyed in the Hnquish the claim Kit Kiachau. at the step that has been taken. I
Associated Press dispatch from Berlin. To secure Turkey. j hope that it will be successful. Even
President Wilson was said to be The security of Turkey In posses-; if it does not lead to peace. It offers
"deeply interested, but reserving com- 8lon of Constantinople would probably proof that Germany wanU peace, even
ment.." Secretary Lansing maintained be Insisted upon by the Central Powers, after a victorious campaign and does
a similar attitude. The cabinet dis- as welj a3 tne restoration of Albania. I (PontlniKU on Page Four)
cussed the development at its regular
Tuesday meeting, but the situation
was described by members as so obvi
ously delicate that no announcement
could be made. j
i
God would be judge. We can proceed
on our way."
The chancellor's speech was listen
ed to by thronged galleries. The roy
al box was crowded. All the ambas
sadors, ministers of foreign govern
ments were in the diplomatic box.
The American Charge, Jos. Grew, and
Mrs. Grew, with the ministers of Ar
gentina, Brazil. Chile and other South
American states, were present
The Reichstag adjourned to be re
convened at the call of the president
Prior to adjournment the president of
the chamber declared that the nations
UP ALL KEEPING
OLD BOUNDARIES
5 IIL CALL HA
measure a disappointment to those
( who expected some concrete expres-
sion of a basis on which ngotiations , the outbreak of the war would not be
might be begun. The German em-' included.
bassy, however, is la possession of , What adjustment would be made to
advices which outline in a general ay rover the Trentitto region between
what Germany expects, and the dippj- Austria and Italy, or any provision af
mats of the entente powers through i fecting Egypt, the Sues canal. Meso-
the means of being supplied with
'Fight On" Says Wilhelm and
Troops Capture 10,000 More
"uTiaanf,the?Tr,f rrIti
in Serbia continue to be the sectors
where most of the fighting is taking zatlun. An official communication
place. The town of Mizil. on the rail-1 from Taris announces that the French
way between Ploechtl and Buzen, has 'admiral at Athens has been replaced
been captured by the Teutons, as also by Admiral Gauchet.
has Urziceni, twenty miles southwest,' Berlin reports the destruction by a
Berlin announces that more than 10, j submarine in the eastern Mediterra
000 additional Rumanians have been ' nean of two big transports loaded
raptured. In the Carpathians and ; with war material. The British press
slong the Moldavian frontier, the Rus- j bureau, however, denies that the ve
s'ans are continuing their violent at- j ?els were transports,
tacks but Berlin says without success. The German emperor has addressed
It is asserted by Berlin that the Rus-. a message to the army and navy say-
slans in the Carpathians have lost 30,
000 men.
On thw front in France and Bel-
Poland to Be Free.
The establishment or independent
kingdoms in Lithuania and Inland
would be one of the factors in the
lierman proposal, although that part
of Poland possessed by Germany at
in-fpotamia or the gateways of control to
from Switzerland says the king of
.Greece has ordered a general niobill-
ing that with consciousness of victory
he had made an offer of peace, but
whether it would be accepted was un
certain. "Cntll that moment arrives, you will
fight on." the message concluded.
