THE ARIZONA REPUBLICAN
AN INDEPENDENT PROGRESSIVE JOURNAL
TWENTY-SEVENTH YEAR
12 PAGES
PHOENIX, ARIZONA, WEDNESDAY MORNING, DECEMBER 13, 191G
12 PAGES
VOL. XXVII., NO. 208
Pill SAXONS
MUST CO IS
GEN. GONZALES
I
f Republican A
KB i'ASO. Tex
P. Leased Wire
Pec. 12. tleneral
a- -" i nrovs.oaal governor
CT Chihuahua, declared in his Inst
pro.. lainauoii to the people after the
ivoccupatlon of the city by Curranza
troops that lie would soon be ready to
j. in the fit st chie In bringing a unit
Fie retirement of tlu American pun -t
ive ept On ion.
An original copy of the printed mani
fest.. , winch bears ti e dale of December
i was 1 fought here today from Ch'.
huauua liy .i refugee.
General Gonzales beiran his prncli
ii'ation by saying that the people hive
t'le ri;'.ht to know the line of ac'ion
tluir governors intend to pursue while
in office. He continued:
"The state of Chihuahua, in which
the spark of revolution found so propi
tious a field, and which has always
been so jealous a defender of the d. le
nity and cleanness of its institutions,
giving a proverbial example us a bel
ligerent liberal in sustaining its sover
eignty and integrity, and showing so
;:reut an energy in repulsing any ires
pass on its rights today this st:tte
must lament the disgrace of seeing its
sacred soil desecrated by the pioud
Saxon troops, a misfortune that the
bandit Villa caused with his deeds at
Columbus. As these deeds not only In
jure the sovereignty of the state but
also of the country, it is to the central
government that belongs the solution
of this conflict which threatens the
nation itself, and the responsibilities
that history exacts before the present
and future generations. The patriotic
attitude of the first chief in the face of
this lamentable incident is well Isiown
to ail Mexicans. His forces have4iot a
sim.le moment ceased to work toward
a solution of the same by diplomatic
ways, preserving national pride and
autonomy. To support this attitude in
our own sphere of action will be always
a satisfaction to the government of
this state, which may soon be ready
to unite its forces to those of the gen
eral government to brim: about that
the forces of Pershing's punitive expe
dition, so well known but so unjusti
fied, may withdraw as soon as possible
1 1 o nit he state.
The r-st of the manifesto, Governor
General Gonzalez devotes to promises
of educational, financial and internal
reforms and of cleaning out the rebels
"who persist in their errors."
Captured Pistols Returned
POl'GLAS, Dec. 12 pistols and
other accoutrements ot five members of
Troop I, First Cavalry, seized from the
regular by two customs guards two
weeks aft", when they found the sol
diers on Mexican soil, were returned
to General T. F. Davis, commanding
the Arizona district, by General 1. Klias
Calles, today, through Ives G. Bclcvier,
Mexican consul here.
The copy of the Mexican official In
vestigation which accompanied she
weapons, said one customs guard held
up the five Americans with a rifle and
took them to where his companion
was. The two then disarmed them and
sent them back to American territory,
the pistols belnK Rent to Agua Prieta.
The Americans returned to their
ramp and laid they had been taking
kodak pb-tures and had gone into .Mex
ico when signalled by the two .Mex
icans. They were arrested and were
said to be serving sentences In the
regimental guard house, aiso having to
pay for the pistols.
Arizona Guardsman Diet
POFGLAS. Dec. 12 John Evans,
aged 22, a private in Company L, First
Arizona Infantry, died at the base hos
pital here of pneumonia last night. The
body was sent today to San Antonio.
Texas, where his mother, Mrs. Carrie
Evans, resides.
GUARD
TROOPS
TO GO HOME
Republican A. P. Leaied Wire
SAN ANTONIO, Dec. 12. Move
ments of national guard troops or
dered home from the border were
ordered to begin tonight. Organiza
tions expected to start tonight were
.Missouri tnttalion field artillery at
Laredo; pii-trli t of Columbia sign!
company, Nogales; Ftah battery field
artillery, Nogales, and Massachusetts
amnu:ance company, Kl J'aso.
.New York troops will begin leaving
me i Brownsville district tomorrow.
Dates set for movements from other
points are as follows:
Maryland troop cavalry, Kagle
Pass, Iember 14; Second Idaho In
fantry. Nogales, December 13; First
battery California battalion field nr
tillfry. Nogaies, December 14; Io.va
battalion field artillery, Brownsville,
December 14; First Iowa infantry,
lirownsvll'e, December 16. and
Fighteenth Pennsylvania infantry, Kl
I'aso, Iwcember 15.
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
WASHINGTON', Dec. 12. -Progress
In the government's inquiry into the
high cost of living was confined
largely today to further collection of
information and to the study of ex
isting laws to determine whether they
are adequate to enable them to cope
with the situation.
Attorney General Gregory an
nounced that ht would determine
within a few days whether he would
recommend to the president that
congress be asked to pass additional
legislation. The section of the anti
trust law relating to combinations in
restraint of trad and the int'Ts'ate
commerce regulation I rovldlng that
carriers shall not unduly diw-rimlmte
among shippers are said to be the.
only measures under whb h the gov
ernment can act.
In congress ftcp'-onr-ntutlven Sabnth
and Farr Intiodneed r 'solutions w' Ich
would pfivlile for further Investiga
tion Intol the hlsh price of certain
foodstuff The Sabath resolution
would dife'rt the secretary of com
merce to inquire. Into and report' on
the high Cist of sugar, with particu
lar referent j to reported large divi
RESOLUTIONS IB CONGRESS WILL
LOWER IP COST Of LIVING
MOTION TO DISMT
GOV. HUNT'S CONliioi
CA USES
The inspection of the ballots in the
Hunt-Campbell contest was Interrupt-
ed early yesterday )y a motion by
Judge Sloan to discontinue the inspec
tion on the ground that there were no
grounds for the contest and that the
court, therefore, was without jurisdic
tion. There could be rm contest until
there had been a declaration of the elec-
tion of the contestee. Such a declara
tion under the laws and the constitution
, of this state could be made only by a
1 certificate of election, and no certificate
of election had been issued to Mr.
! Campbell, tin the contrary it had been
refused. There was. therefore, no of
I filial intimation that Mr. Campbell
j had been elected and tnere was nothing
I yet to contest. It was asked that the
proceedings be stopped, to be resumed
alter, if the governor chose, the issu
ance of the certificate.
This motion was offered after one
i precinct had been inspected and after
a brief argument it went over until
af'ernoon. when Julge Sloan spoke in
behalf of the motion. He Introduced
several opinions in support of his con
tention. Mr. Ives, representing the gov
ernor, replied. He showed by the law
relating to the issuance of certificates
to county officers-elect that the steps
to be taken by the board of supervisors
consisted of canvassing the vote, mak
ing a declaration of election and the
issuance of the certificate Oy the clerk
of the board. I'ndcr the law, the elec
j lion of a successful candidate might be
contested at any time after the dec-1
la rat ion.
That was granted by Judge Sloan.
Hut the case of the state officer was a
different one. Here was no canvassing
board. The certified returns were gone
; over by the secretary of state, who
should merely declare the result; that
! is, that this candidate had received
so many voles, and that candidate Bo ;
many. The only declaration the sec
retary could make would be in the cer
tificate of election. There was no rec-'
ord of any proceedings in his office
relative to the canvassing, while the
i hoard of supervisors, acting as a can
i vassing board, kept minutes of the pro
t ceedings, but the board did not issue
i the certificate; that was one of the
I duties of the clerk of the board.
I Judge Campbell, of Tucson, and Mr.
! Bullard also took part in the debate
j and at one point, while Mr. Ives 'was
' struggling with the problem, be was
annoyed by that smile which engulfs
" the countenance of Mr. Bullard on oc
casions, and turned upon him. Smile;
he cried; "yon always smile when
you're getting heat."
Judge Stanford seemed impressed by
the arguments of the attorneys for the
contestees and said that he would take
the matter under advisement. He
asked for the authorities which had
been ciud and desired to see Judge
Campbell in chambers. Mr. Ives marie
a request to be further heard against
the motion.
Another development of the day was
the announcement that the democratic
state Committee hud been called today
in this city, it was stated, by prominent
Hunt democrats for the purose of
putting the committee behind the con
test. After the temporary disposition
of the motion of Judge Sloan the In
struction of the ballot was resumed.
That had been legun in the morning
In the court room in the presence of
: Judge Stanford; the attorneys for the
' contestees had insisted .upon that right
I prescribed by the statute. But it was
! apparent that the Inspection was going
' to be an interminable affair. The work
had proceeded at the rate cf 140 ballots
, ar. hour. Il was estimated that once
the inspectors had been wanned up
i they could move faster, say at the rate
i of 1D0 ballots an hour. At that rate It
i would take twelve days to inspect the
; ballots of this county, and about two
i months to finish the inspection of all
the ballots of the stale.
At the suggestion of the court the
Inspection was moved to the library
room at the other end of the corridor
and the business of the court was re
sumed. Executive Committee
At the call of one of the vice presi
dents the state democratic executive
committee will meet at the state house
a 10 o'clock this morning, George .1.
Stoneman. ex-officlo member and
chairman of the central committee, did
not call the meeting, but found It had
been called on his recent return from
the east.
The committee will discuss the con-
I'r - st over the governorship and will, it Is
said, take up matters relating to fin
ance. Why the party should bother I'r
Uiead about finances ii not explained, a.i,
it Is understood, tho expenses of Gov
ernor Hunt's contest ngaiiift Governor
elect Campbell are covered in an "as
nesinunt" made upon the salaries of
t.;poii.tees of the administration.
A l.'.rge number of liu-itite from all
over the state are here or en route to
look over the contest. Quite a number
of them mingled with democrats and
republicans at the Inspection yesterday.
Among the callers were Leroy A. Ijiitd.
recretary to the governor, and Harry
dends of sugar companies. The Farr
resolution would provide for an In
quiry by the secretary of agriculture
into the supply. Importations, and ex
portatiuns of wheat, flour and wheat
products.
Deportation of all Mexican
Plotters to be Asked U. S.
tPerubilran A. P. Leased Wire)
D il.'GDAS, Dec. 12. Complete list.-)
of Mexicans alleged to be plotting
against the peace of the present gov-
ernnr-nt of Mexico have been pre-
pared and will t,e given to American
Immigration cuthorities. If the sign-
lng of the protocol bv representatives
of the two countries carries with It
an agreement for deportation of
"pernicious foreigners," Iveu G. Be-
levler, Mexican consul In Uouglus,
said today.
Ho said he had been Informed Ly
ARGUMENTS
Shea, chauffeur; Frank Curley. the
administration's unsuccessful candi
date for the nomination for the attor-
riey generalship, and now associated .
with Hon. K. S. Ives in prosecuting the I
"contest;" Leslie T. Hardy, formerly
assistant attorney general and now in
private practice in Tu.cson.
The ballot survey is necessarily a '
public procedure. It is being held In 1
the library, a small room adjoining the
judge's chambers, and hardly large
enough comfortably to accommodate
(Continued on I'age Three)
GERMANY WILLI
Perublicar. A. P. Leaied Wire
WASHINGTON, Dec. 12. Ger-jment coujd be made. j
many's proposal for peace is regarded The absence of any specific terms j
here as having broken the chains; for pence in the note, cr in the Ger- I
wnicn Tor momns nave restrained ma j man chancellors ipeecn was in a
United States, as well as other neu- (measure a disappointment to thole
trals from makmq offers of media j who expected somn concrete expres
tion. j sion of a brsia on whiwh negotiations
Now that one set of belligerents has miqr-t begin.. The Gorman embassy,
signified its willinqneis to discuss : however, is in possession of f dvices
peace terms a condition often re- j which outline in a general way what
iterated as necessary to any action ; Germany expects, and the diplomats
by P.-esident Wilson there are indi-jof the entente powers, tnrouah their
cations that when the United States, means of beinq supplied with infor
actmq as the intermediary, transmits mation believe they have a qenjra'
the German propose. It may accom-'idsa of what terms tSe central now-
rany its action by some steps to
throw the influence of the United
States Into the balance for at least a
consideration, however, preliminary, of
the terrr.i on which a lasting peace
might be brought to the world. Some
ranking officials of the American
qovernment believe a leaqua of na
tions, such as President Wilson has
suggested, must be the outcome and it
could not be perfected without the
participation of the United States.
Whether the United States will
transmit the German proposal with
out any comment whatever, or ac
company it with some for
mal or informal expression, will not
be decided until the note delivered to
American Charne Grew in Be'lin
recahes President Wilson's hands,
probably tomorrow.
There were indications that Presi
dent Wilson rr.ight find some way to
express the solemn and earnest wish
es for a careful consideration of the
suggestion of peace, even before the en
tente governments have made known
their attitude toward the German
proposal. This, it wis pointed out,
would necessarily be cone in such a
delicate and ultera confidential way
that it never would be knewn oub.
hcly should the allies decline the of
fer. This course was said tj be ab
solutely necessary so as o leave the
United States free and unembarrassed i
to act when an acceptable peace offer j
comes. , i
Regardless of whether Presid-nt ,
Wilson declines to accompany the
German proposal with any worH. it
was said tonight, he unquestionably
would take steps to learn the attitude
of the entente allies toward the peace
move and possibly rr.iqht send to
EurODe his personal friend and ad
vtser, sColonel E. M. House.
Nona of the official dispatches hid
arrived tonight. The government's
first information was conveyed in the
Associated Preie dicp'tcbes from
Berlin. President Wilson was said to
be "deeply interested, but reserving
comment," Secretary Laninri miin
tained a similar attitude. The caalnst
discussed the development at its req
ular Tuesday meeting, but the situ,
tion was described hy members as so
I
BOTTOM 15 PEACE
Repcfclican A. P. Leased Wire
CM I' 'AGO, Dc. 12. Wheat values
plunged wildly downward twice today
first on account of Germany's report
ed overtures for peace, and secondly
owing to traders' assumption of a like
lihood that the character of the terms
reported to luive been offered for dis
cussion would bring about an accept
ance. Fxtreuio breaks in prices reach
ed ll'i cents a bushel and were accom
panied by transa.'tlons amounting to
millions of bushels.
Closing quotations of the day were
at nearly the bottom level touched,
with the market as a whole 4 to
10t cents under yesterday's
finisn.
Hesitancy In tha. wheat market after
he first break in prices was the result
of cpir.ions expressed by leading trad
ers that a refcsal on the part of Great
Britain and her allies to treat on the
I. arts of the supposed German offer
would doubt loss bring about a sharp
rebound in wheat prices, whereas any
serious pence ilis-.ussii n might cause a
materially lower lantv of values.
Coin and oats felt the effects of the
peace nev.a to a much les extent than
wheat. Pork and ribs also were com
paratively stable, despite the excite
ment In v.1 eat. ( n the other hand, lard
Jumped up fi;i cents for the day, the
general Idea being that big shipments
of lard would be wanted In central
Europe if the movement for peace jirov
l ed a success
1
VALUES
OVERTURES MADE
his government that the Mexican
delegates: to the conference had made
a strong effort to have the I'nltod
States agree to depi.rtatlon of all
aliens connected with revolutionary
Juntas, in order that tho Carranzii
i government might deal with them,
Kuch n step, he said, would put nn
end lo any danger of Invasions of
. Mexico from the United Ftutos ami
I would allow the Carranza government
to place troops now on garrison duty
on the border In the field asalnat the
I bandits.
n-
AJO STRIKE ABOUT OVER i
Special to The Republican
'AJO, Ariz., Dec. 12. The strike
of the New Cornelia Copper com- I
panv's emplayees at Ajo is being I
settled by the men thmeselves.
There were at work at the plant I
this rr.oiiilnR 57.r men.
The parnoe cf the strikers yes- !
tenbiy contained 21; S men, sixty I
of whum were white. j
Apparently sentiment Is rapidly i
crisluliziiig In behalf of the com- I
pany and It is believed that with- I
in the next few days all the crafts I
will be Lack at work. This labor j
disturbance has been unique In
i the fact there tuts been no violence i
and nn arrests have been made I
until this morning when Sheriff I
Forbec took Into custody six mili- I
ta'it strikers led bv organizer F-d.
Miller for contempt of his proclu-
million against intimidation of I
nun desiring to work. I
i J
obviously delicate that ns announce-
i ers are willing to
advance aa the
: basis of discussion.
Recent disoatches
i embassy indicate ax
to the German
belief that tnc
be in substance
general terms might
as follows:
"A restoration of tho status
que
existing before the war. This in
cludes the evacuation of Belgium and
the restoration of the occupied por
tions of northern France with the
exception of Alsace and Lorraine. No
authorized expression was obtainable
from the embassy as to whether con
ditions would be attached to the res
toration of Belgium and French ter
ritory, but it was understood that the
German idea was to make provision
for the future neutrality of Belqium
and probably propose the foif-ca-tion
particularly of the city of Ant
werp. It was also said that no con
ditions amountinq to eccnomic con
trol of the mineral lands of northern
France would likely be asked. All
Germany's lost colonics, she expects
to be returned. Her possessions in
the Pacific, however, are not a sub
iect of areat concern and the Ber
lin government is understood to ba
ready to relinquish the claim of Kia
uchu. The seurity o' Turkey in posses
sion of Constantinople would bo in.
S'Stej upon by the central oowers as
well as the restoration of Albania.
The establishment of int'ipendent
kingdoms in Lithuania and Poland
would be one of the factors in the
Cerman proposal although tnst part
of Polr.nd possessed by Germany t
the outbreak of the war would not be
inc'udod.
What adjustment would be made to
cover the Trentino reqion between
Austria and Italv, or any prov.tion
affrcting Egypt, the Suei canal, Mes
opotamia or the aattways ef control
to the Indian empire are not m'-de .
cle'r.
The Balkan situation is considered;
so c'.rlicate it would have to be un- '
tannled in Deace conference.
The whole German view ef tha
peace mov is that it is a ste- to
yard a discussion of
v.hich ought to show
peace terms.
some definite I
eroqrest eerly in Juary. There is
Car Ditched Near
Gilbert R.R. Men i
Seriously Injured
B. H. Ijonir. vice president and con- ,
struciio'i engineer of the Arizona 1
Fastcrn railroad with headquarters at
Tucson, and L. 11. Hitchcock, divi
sion engineer of the same company
with headquarter at Phoenix, sus
tained injuries of a serious nature
wl en the Inspection car In which they
wire ri ling was ditched Just west ot
C.qbert at 12::iu n'clork yesterday aft
ernoon. The injured men were rushed
to the lister's hospital in Phoenix oh
a special train. No cause for the ac
cident h is been learTie'I.
Fortunately, the occupants were
thrown clear of the car when It wen'.
In the ditch and over the embank
ment. Mr. Ixing sustained a fracture
on the right arm and painfdl cuts and
bruises. Hitchcock was the more serl-
I ourly Injured of the two, sustaininr
several broKen ribs on the left side
In addition to cuts and bruises.
Bore and Hitchcock, accompanied
bv' Thomas Kngiish and Kobert Bid
dings, in charge of the Kissel Insneo
tlon enr, were tnroutn to Phoenix
frc.m Florence, where they had con
ducted an inspection of some new
track recently completed there. They
were traveling at an exceedingly slow
rate and with caution. It Is stated. t
the (one of the accident. Both KnRiisl.
and Biddings escaped Injury.
As soon a- word of the accident
was received in this citv, C. M. Scott,
superintendent of the Phoenix division,
left on a epecial train for the scene.
The injured men were rushed here,
arriving at the Sisters' hospital he
fore ;! o'clock.
o
PEACE MOVEMENT MENACE
rp-i.hiirn A P. Leased Wlrel
P.ALTIMi'BF, Dec 12. The propa
ganda of the so-called peace psrty Jn
this country was called "the ri a'esl
menace to the country's vital inter
csts," bv Bear Admiral Colby M
Chester In nn nthlres tonight at -the
Bn'llmore Press cluh.
"The worst element in the present
movement to secure pcaco-af-nov-prlce
Is t'e e'feor it has noon tho
women of the land." tep tdmlr-'il ron
rlnoet. "It has n 'endemv to de
stroy thwt BT-lrit of Foar(n- mo'lr"--hood
which has ennob'rd the nicbn
In the east: that soirit wHch In
duees the' mother to send eer lov
'nrth to bntt'e for his country, h's
hem", pnd n'l he lnvesdn In lif"
thldlne- him to 'wtw with his rhb Id
or upon Mr shield." "
JAPANESE QUESTION
COMES UP IN HO USE
WARM REMARKS MADE
Republican A. P. Leaied Wire
WASHINGTON, Dec. 12.-j-A.ter an
other day of debate over the ex
clusion of aliens on account of raee,
tho senate late today adopted the
committee amendment to the immi
gration bill which would bar Hindus
and certain other Asiatics without
mentioning tnem ty name, vnn aniRcrines certain geographical areas
added provision stipulating that noth-'from which immigrants shall not be
lug in the act shall be construed to ! admitted instead of naming ra' es or
repeal any existing law, treaty or ' nationalities as was di ne in the bill
agreement
or restrict
which serves
immigration,
'd stipulation.
to prohibit
proposed by
This add
said to be no
possibility of a peace
conference beinq held in
States. Berne and The
mentioned as most likely
the United
Hague are
places, and
I it is not doubted that
' Eernstorff, the Cerman
Count von
ambassador
here, would qo as one of his country's
representatives. His attitude wji ex
pressed tomont in the following
statement:
i "I am of course, extremely gratified
it the step that has been taken. I j
hope that it will be succescful. Cvon
if it c'oes not lead to peace it offers
proof that Germany wants peace,
' even after a victoriojs camo'rqn and
Hoes not desire the responsibility for
further suffering of mankind, los of
lite and proprty. Germany wants '
peace and does not desire conquest.
I cannot say anything about the
I terms."
I Diplomats of the entente allies here
' regard the peace offer . having the :
double purpose of placinq upon the
allies the responsibility for continu
ing the war, and of impressing upon ,
the German people that they are j
fighting a defensive conflict aqainst .
enemies who refuse quarter. Coming
immediately after the culmination of
the' triumphant Rumanian camoaign,
the peace offer, entente diplomats
say, is intended also to impress the
German people that they need have
no lack of confidence in their gov
ernment to continue the war.
Based upon information from their
home governments the entente diplo
mats believe Germany's terms are in
general about as follows:
ftestorutlon of 1 ilgiurn but with
conditions which would practically
leave it under German control and
piolably give over the port of Ant
i werp to Gcrmanv.
I I1 oral i .n of the oci upied pnrtiors
of northern France but with economic
'cont-.ol vihith would guarantee to Ger-
mm yuppies (f iro. pnd other raw
materials drawn from there.
Domination of Mesopotamia by Ger
many and Austria, to give them n pnth
to the Persian gulf and break Knir
I. mil's gateway to India and Kgypt.
To award to Fuigarla all of Serbia
as far south as Nissa. which would take
from Serbia as much territory as she
gained In the I'al' an wars. They ex-l-.
t Germ.inv will demand the return
of her African colonies or at least pro
pose to exchange them for the French
colonics.
Turkey's interests are considered a
minor affair and not fully developed in
to consideration of peace.
The attitude of the I'.alkan nations
1 of the Germanic allies, it is expected.
will he sit forth In the notes which
have len ilisiiatchcd from Sofia and
.'..,iul.nll-Lii,iln nn,l iinOlin" f llli.m I.
' v i"' "
fContlnued on Page Eijht)
11 WILL MEET
fRerubtican A. P. Leased Wire
WASHINGTON, Dec FJ. Carranza's
action an the protocol signed at At
lantic City by the Mexican-American
toint commission will be submitted to
the Ancican commissioners at a
meeting in Philadelphia IH-cember 1K.
I'por. the nature of the reHrt of Al
berto J. Farl, who carried the protocol
to Carrnm.ii for signature, will de
pend whether the conferences are to
continue.
Arrangements for the next meeting
were approved by President Wilson
at today's cabinet meeting. Neither
Secretary Lansing nor Secretary Bane,
who beads thr American commission
ers, could any definitely whether Cur-ra-iza
had Flened the protocol. They
had i.ivn informed by the Mexican
members, who suggested the date of
the Philadelphia meeting, only that
the text of their first chiefs com
ments on the protocol would be sub
mitted then.
iiff'clnls here arc inclined, however,
to credit unofficial reports that In
stead, of affiximr his signature. Car
ranza has proposed changes In the
agreement and !t is feared that his
attitude mi-.y cause further complica
tions. It was Indicated learly that a tie
mam! for material changes In the pro
tocol, such as i'oreshaitywed by tlu
reported determination of Carranza
to c ntest unconditionally upon the
retirement of American expedition
would mean Immediate abandonment
of the conferences.
G TO STOP WAR
COBI 1
IKE HIS REPORT
Print Paper Situation Is
Taken up by Commission
Republlcar A. P. Leased Wire
WASHINGTON, Pec. 12. Manufac
turers of print paper proposed, at the
conclusion today of the federal trade
commission's hearing Into prices, to
meet a committee from the National
Newspaper Punlshers' Association to
work out for the eommlttee's approval
a plan for an equal distribution of thehad told
siocks ot print paper. ! prices in
Chairman Hurley of the commission
asked the publishers, manufacturers
Senator Phelan of California, is de
signed to replace the direct reference
to tho so-called "gentlemen's agree
ment" with Japan, vhi h was strick
en out of the house bill by the senate
committer at the reo.ue.st of the state
department.
The committee amendment pre-
as it a.ss-d the house.
During the debate Senator lodge
; and S. nator Phelan engaged in a
, lively- -nlnVuoy, the former insisting
I that it was needless to insert In tho
j bill any reference to agreements be
j cause they would not strengthen the
: position of the United States.
"It is a great mistake," said Sen
ator r.ouge, ''tor this congress to give
wanton and needless offense to a
friendly nation, by which wo gain
absolutely nothing."
Senator I'helan declared that after
tho
bill had passed the house certain
Japanese busy-bod ies objected, and
that he thought "this government
' "ht to be conducted from Washing-
j The Ph' Ian provision prevailed
j without a roll call and the committee
j amendment as modified was adopted
i by a vote of 4' to 14, western sena
tors votin-' against it.
I Senator phelan gave notice that he
vould offer another amendment to
prohibit tiie entrance of so-ralied
Japanese " icture brides" into the
United States.
Senator Heed's amendment to ex
, rh'dn African blacks from the I'nited
States was defeated by a vote of 3
to 37. When the senate adjourned
there was pending another amend
ment by Senator Peed to exclude all
persons who came to the Vnitel
'States for temporary emplovment as
l.'borers, intending
native land.
o return to their
S. 0. S. CALLS FROM
SINKING STEAMER
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
BoSTiiN. Dec. Bl. A radio message
stating tiiat the steamer Grilse was
sinHnir fast off Cape Race was picked
up by one of the wireless stations on
the New England coast tonight. The
message said:
"Steamer Grilse off Cape Race, lati
tude 43.4H north, longitude 64.50 west.
Sinking fast. Immediate danger. Send sl! g. eiu.r loiiuws:
m'i!'' ,. . . 1 ' 1 have t.'.e Honor lo inform vour ex-
Trie distress message was picked up cc-hency mat 1 have received "msiruL
by the I nited Mates oil supply steamer ; i,0n.s to express to vou u.e ueep g.au
Kanakha, which arrived at Rockland. tu e of his majesty's government lor
Maine, yesterday from Mare Island, the noble action which Lie government
al.. to undergo her trial trips on the ot Ule tnited States ha-! Keen good
government course. The Kanawjia at enough to take in approaching tne
once relayed the message to all stations German government on tne subject oi
and ships within reach of her radio :inw ueportations of Belgium cjx maris
outfit. At one of the shore stations it to Germany, and for tne gleat interest
was said that another steamer, the taken l.y tne L nited Stales govcinmcm
.e.ii,i ul which was not learneo, nau
picsea up rne -!jf. signal at ai.out
toe same time as tne Kanawha.
The name of the vessel asking for
help was blurred in transmission, the
receiving station paid.
ARIZONA BADLY BATTERED
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
NICW YuRK, Deo. 12. The battle
ship Arizona, put into commission
recently and regarded by naval ex
perts as the speediest and most ef
ficient American dreadnaught, is pro
ceeding north along the Atlantic coast
with only her port engine supplying
motive power and with her starboard
turbine crippled, according to word
received at the Brooklyn navy yard
today. The turbine gave way while
the battleship was engaged in tacti
cal msneuvres off Guatanamo, Cuba,
according to the information. The
vessel is expected to arrive here De
cern btr Is,
TO INVESTIGATE ELECTIONS
PepchUran A P. Leased Wire
WASHINGTON, Dec. V:. Senator
Owen, democrat, having withheld in
troduction of his resolution to direct
an investigation into expend'tures of
Uthe recent national political cam
paign. Senator Kenyon or Iowa, re
publican, announced today that he
would submit such a measure in the
near future-. In the house a similar
resolution is pending- before the elec
tions committee.
REORGANIZING FRENCH ARMY
Republican A P. Leased Wire
PARIS. Dec. 12. General Nlvelle,
commander of the French troops at
Verdun, has been appointed command
er in chief of the armies of the north
and northeast. The official announce
ment of this appointment says it is the
first step towards re-organization of
the higher command.
BRITISH HUG
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
BOX POX. Pec. 12. A strong cur
rent of public sentiment opposed to
the Gorman peace propasal was evi
dent In the expressions last night
both from public men and the Brit
ish press, although these were without
anv word from high authoratlve
land jobbers to bold separate meetings
rrlday to frame 'their plans and ap
point committees to meet with the
commission Saturday.
The manufacturers' proposal came as
an unexpected development when the
trade commission called on them to
present their case. Newspaper owners
of wide differences in paper
various parts of the country
and of the inability of many small
I publishers to obtuln paper at any price.
FIGHT
IS
1 MOPS
Pepublican A. P. Leased Wire
Rumania and the Carna river region
in Serbia continues to be the sectors
where most of the fighting is taking
place. The town of Mizil, on the rail
way between Ploeehti and Huzeu, has
been captured by Teutons, as also has
Urziceni, twenty miles southeast. lier
lin announces that more than IO.uO'j
additional Rumanians have been cap
tured. In the Carpathians and along the
Moldavian frontier the Prussians are
continuing their violent attacks, but
Rerlin says without success. It is
asserted by Berlin that the Russians in
the Carpathians have lost 30,Uv men.
Along the Carna river the entente
allies have again attacked viciously,
but again have been repulsed with
heavy casualties, according to Teutonic
allied advices. Five Bulgarian potts
south of the Lymnitza river have been
captured by entente troops. Snow has
put an end to infantry activity north of
Alonastir.
On the front in France and Belgium
there is a continuation of artillery ac
tivity and small operations by patrol
parties. An unofficial dispatch from
Switzerland says the kins of Greece
has ordered a general mobilization.
An official communication from Paris
reports that the French admiral, du
Fournet, commander of the entente
naval forces in the .Meiiitteranian, has
been replaced by Admiral Gauchet.
Berlin reports the destruction by a
submarine in the eastern Mediterranean
of fvc big transports loaded with war
material.
Kmperor William has addressed a
message to the army and navy savins
that with consciousness of victorv he
had made an offer of peace, but whether
it would be accepted was uncertain.
! "I'ntil that moment arrives you will
light on, the message concludes.
3ELGIAKS EXPixSS
UkAiiruDE TO U. S.
(.Republican A. r. Leatca WireJ
WASHINGTON, Dec. 12. Belgium's
gtaliluue to the L'nited Mates lor its
. representations to Germany against tne
; deportation or' Belgians was expiessi-u
py .Minister Mavenitn touav in a leiier
' h, ,.,..,,.... .. .....
, m ceteiise of the unfort jiiaio 1;,
Mull
un-
communities
winch nave alieauy
clergone Fuch cruel trials.
"In exile and biaveiy to which these
unhappy people are being draKt-'t-u oy
an oppressor who no longer knou-s a..
law, either of God or of man, iney na.e
the moral support of heaiing B.e vo.te
of this noble country proclaiming niu
new immutability of tiiose pi n.t i,ies o.
justice and treeuom which arc as u
to all civilized people, bin aoove ao
dear to the Lnued Slates for in ue
fense of those principles one vi toe
greatest of her presidents, Aurahaiu
Lancoin, gave ah, even Ins liie b.uou.
TREASURY DEFICIT COMING
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
WASHINGTON, Dec. 12,-Afur -warm
oehate the house touay u.t-.
into the annu..l legislative, t.ci.,v.
and juiucial appropriation Dill, a uu
vision increasing toe saludies ot n. ,.
resentatives' private secretaries iron.
$1,500 to 2.000 a year and giving eac.
representative an additional eiu,'l. yc
at 75 a month. Chairman Fiugei . ,
of the appropriations committee .n
opposing the proposal preuuUd
treasury defcit of 244,000,000 lor il..
current fiscal year.
NO RAISE FOR MINERS
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
DENVER, Dee. 12 Published re
ports that all employes of the Co.o
rado Fuel and Iron company wire to
receive a bonus of five per cent fc
the months of December, 1 16 ai..i
January and February, BUT, w;r
said to lie erroneous by officials c-f
the company here today. It was ex
plained that the bonus applies only
to employes in the fuel de iirtm. tu,
including those employed at min,.--and
coke ovens. The bonus is a
contingent on employes not lo n -rnoM
than one clay a month, it was
saiil.
AGAINST THE
sources indicating the attitude of the
government.
It was noticeable that the proposal
had not ereat-d any profound im
pression among the average London
ers. There was little talk in the ho
tels cr other public places.
Government circles tlso hell aloof
from any discussion. The foreign of
fice would make no comment in the
absence of the terms, but Indicated
thr.t the British attitude up to the
present was embodied in the declara
tions made from time to time by the
former nremier and Viscount Grey,
and that anv new proposals would
have to be considered by all the en
tente nllies before a definite attitude
was possible.
Those in close association with thr
new iroverrment took the view that
the proposals would prove entirely
unacceptable, mainly because they
were not Mkcly to touch what the
ruling authorities regard as guaran
tees .against German militarism that
will permit Fngland. France and
their allies to demobilize their vast
armies, reduce their enormous mili
tary expenses, and return to lasting
(Continues on Pace Eight)
PROPOSALS OF GH1Y
