ALBUQUERQUE MORNING JOURNAL.
CITY
CITY
EDITION
EDITION
TlmvTV-snvrxTii year.
nil. No. u.
iflTl
101 READY FOR
PEACE ON TERMS
f)F THE ENEMY
Sentiment of People for Con
tinuation of War Until As
surances of Permanent
Peace Are Given,
POLITICAL MANEUVER
IS CHARACTERIZATION
No Plan Acceptable Which
Does Not Provide for Curb
ing of Teutonic Militarism,
Says Gilbert Parker,
imi HOKNINa JOURNAL PICIAL LD WIKII
I.ondon. !. 13. A strong current
of public sentiment opposed to the j tion," says the entente allies must not
German peace proposal was evident ; commit the fatal blunder of refusing
in the expressions last night both from j t0 en1pr (nt0 neSotlatUms because the
public men and the British press, al- i Teutons are evidently playing an uu
thouh these were without any word ; U(e diplomatic Rame.
from high authoritative sources indi-1 Thfi chronicle says:
eating tne auuuue 01 govc.......;,...
It was noticeable that the proposal
nad not creavea . , .u.u a8 to those torms slle can always In
si;m among the one, qilire 0f us. W-e have always ye-d
There was little talk in the hotels and dlHarmnnlcnt of le PrufisUm ,,,.
othfr public places. I, , , .
Government circles also held aloof j ry machine and the surrender or
from any discussion. The foreign of-: destruction of its navy and the wnole
fire would make no comment In the, of its artillery. '
nKUAnro rtf tho inrms. liUt indicated! "
that the British attitude up to the !
tions made from time to time by tho
former premier and Viscount O'-ey,
and that any new proposals would have
to he considered by all the entente nl-!
lies before a definite attitude was pos- j
i Ij le-. j
Tw..,o,.ia v,. im-iimlile.
Tl. Ir, txlnan fluunfifltlnn With tllO
' ..' 4K !, !
new govern. ,c.,t tu. t ,t lg tne fh-st step towards
the proposals would PaU'l reorganization of the higher com
unacceptable, mainly because they; "
were not likely to touch what the rul- j nluna-
ing authorities regard as guarantees j
against German militarism that will;
permit England, France, and their al-1
lies to demobilize their vast armies, .
reduce their enormous military ex
penses, and return to lasting condi
tions of peace.
Some expressions, indicating the
general drift of sentiment, wero as
follows:
Sir Arthur Conan Doyle: "We want,
to know more about the terms, for,
without them, the imperial chancel
lor's suggestions of peace Is prepos-
terous and ridiculous." j
mI of LonaonlVry: -we!
have got to win the war. Peace aj
tho present time would be disastrous!
to the nation and empire. It is only j
a question of time and we will win j
out absolutely."
Principal Burrows of Kings college: j
"No peace Is possible on the basis
that Germany is victorious."
Sir Gilbert Parker, after mm",l'm
with his aHsoclutctf in ' the house 'Of ""
commons, said: "This is clearly a nar-Law innncdia.ely rnoved adjou n
pnlitical maneuver, designed to im-:'' Thursday, when Premier
press tho world as a dramatic stroke, Lloyd-George will move the vote of
but having little serious purpose to- "edit Menna suggested
ward securing an enduring peace. One,""" the premier make his statemc nt
of the chief essentials of any peace j next Tuesday, when Mr Asq nth
would be such a curbing of German foiit.l bo present Mr. l,om,r-Uw
militarism that a resumption of the Pr omised to consult he premier - The
,,.-sent. conflict wot! be impossible. ! abncii.-o of Illness of remicr Llojd
Without such a guarantee. F.nglanfl 'orge and former Premie. A.u.Wi.
... !, r.pm.i,.n t (rll,-i,u i rt , Vl rt 111,,, mlTHS-
und France would be compelled as
a matter of s defense to retain i torlal crisis led to the decision of the j est sacrifices and determined to de
a matter of s 1 di tense to rcTa, " I cabinet to postpone until Thursday j fend to the last extremity the Inher
ZnLna lZ statement of policy, which usually Led treasure of intellectual and eco
"lormous i burdens of t1,6' ,?"!: , attaches to the first meeting of a new nomic work and the social organiza-
in, ,,.. nf hntno. nermitted to resume I
,.,. ,ith .v, usHiirance that thev :
will not again be plunged into war." i over, a large number of members re
Kditors Hc rhTnwn Trick. to Ljn,,(,n for eBH1,"n- The
The morning newspapers, in their
editorial views on Germany's peace i
proposals, take two main grounds I
that the offer should be rejected, or I
The Day in Congress
su.vTi;.
Met at noon.
Debate resumed on immigration
Mil.
Democratic steering committee left i
oi'tion on Christmas recess to the j John Pillon urged a motion to dis
house of representatives. jcuss the government's statement of
Adopted committee amendment to : policy, to which everyone was looking
immigration bill which would bar j forward with intense Interest.
Hindus and other Asiatics and ellm-j "I am not quarreling with the dicta
Inuto reference to passport agreement ! tot-ship which has been reached," said
'lth Japan. jMr. Pillon. "We probably have
- I reached the stage where somo form of
iiorsi:.
Met at noon.
Resumed discussion on the. Indian
PDropilation bill.
Secretary Panlels testified before
'he naval committee.
Passed Indian approriation bill.
Hecan debate on legislative, execu- i
tlv 'nd Judicial appropriation bill. jagrte.l tflat the vote of credit be tak
A ijourned 5:08 to noon Wednesday. I en on Thursday and that the wider
THE WEATHER
. WKATHER FORECAST.
I'envcr, l)oc. 12. New Mexico:
'ednesday and Thursday generally
coldor east portion Wednesday.
1-OCAL WEATHER REPORT.
Kor twenty-four hours, ending at
P m. yesterday:
Maximum temperature, 52 degrees:
sistmum, It; ranse. 3S; temperature
M t- ta., S3; aejtliwtet wiai; c;tr.
thnt It should be met with a statement
of the terms on which the entente
allies are willing to effect a peace,
leaving it to the central powers to ac
cept or reject It.
The Morning Post nignes that the
opening of negotiation! would imply
an armistice in which Cerniany would
obviously occupy the predominant
position, and that the question would
he whether the entente allies were
prepared to accept terms dictated by
Germany. It adds that to grant an
armistice would he to abandon the
hope of over gaining tfle, power to
force Germany to submission.
"Germany," says the Morning Tost,
"knows she has reached her zenith
and henceforth must decline. Noth
ing, therefore, will better nerve her
purpose than an armistice."
Impudent Peace Trick.
The Pally Mail describes the offer
of the central powers as "an impudent
old peace trick which Is becoming as
hackneyed as the conjuring of rabbits
out of a hat." It adds that Pr. von
Bethmann-Hullweg Is no more entitled
to the courtesy of a reply than if ht
were an armed burglar in a private
house.
"The allies will not be caught In
this white-whiskered device," the
Paily Mail adds. "They know that
no peace with a nation of tigers and
murderers and statesmen who regard
all treaties as scraps of paper would
be worth the paper and ink. It is
better and cheaper far to fight on."
The Paily News, while urging the,
people not to pay too much attention
i0 the
chancellor's arrogant lnvita'
..rmnnv h....ft .Mxy ,,ay i
i on our terms. If she has any doubt
JfJFFRE'S POWER OVER
FRENCH ARMY SHOWN
tr kohnino jounl imcul liid wimi
Paris, Dec. 13. General Niyelle,
commander of the French troops at
Verdun, has been appointed com-
mander-m-chier or tne armieB 01 uie
northeast.
The official
appointment
announcement
of this
F
I0N0E
I
Lloyd-George and Asquith
Both III, and Statement of
Policy Is Postponed Until
Thursday,
(V MORNIN9 JOURNAl FKCIAL LIAtKO Wlftl.
London, Dec. 12. When the house
'". i" , '
attaches to the first meeting
government with parliament
How.
"uuuoe ' ' -
maincd in doubt was indicated by the
seats they took, either behind the cab- j
inet or with the opposing forces.
Meanwhile, the new ministers are
mastering their departments, which
most of them took over yesterday.
Would Wait for .Wpiitli's Kcply.
Mr. Bonar-Law suggested that the
discussion of Thursday' be confined to
a statement regarding the war, and
that the premier's general statement
be reserved until next week, when Mr.
Asquith w ill be present to reply.
dictatorship is absolutely necessary,
but we have embarked cm a system of
government absolutely revolutionary
and the uremier should make a frank
statement of the character of the ma- j
chinery under which we are expected ;
to work."
After a short discussion, it was
discussion on trie policy or me gov
ernment and the cii cumstanccK which
led up to its formation would be held
next week. The house then adjourned.
S(cam-hip kellier Hcwm-d.
Pondon. Iec. 12. A dispatch to
Lloyd's from Falmouth reports the
Belgian steamship Keltur towed into
that port, this morning, full of water
from off the Scilly islands. The
steamer was abandoned, damaged t'i
a submarine lut did not fcink as pre
viously rti oiu J. .
PREMIER ABSENT
ROMSESS
MEW GOVERNMENT
Albuquerque Morning
IT POWERS
READINESS
0 SETTLEMENT
I NOTE TO POPE
Germany Deplores Destruction
of Treasures of Civilization,
Blood Soaked Acres and
Loss of Commerce,
DECLARES TEUTONIC
ARMIES UNSHATTERED
Entente Leaders Are Sure of
Their Strength, but Have
Become Stricken With Pity
for the Rest of Europe,
Y MONINa JOURNAL If-tClA,. LKAIIO WIN
Berlin, Pec. 12. Tho note presented
by Pr. von Muhlbcrg, German min
ister to tho Vatican, to Cardinal Gus
parri, papal secretary of state follows:
"According to instructions received
I have the honor to send to your emi
nence a copy of the declaration which
the imperial government today, by the
good offices of tho powers entrusted
with the protection of German inter
ests in the countries with which the
German empire Is in a state of war,
transmits to these states and in whicn
the Imperial government declares it
self ready to enter into peace nego
tiations. All Central Powers Send Notes.
"Tho Austro-Ilungarian, Turkish
and Bulgarian governments also have
sent similar notes. The reasons which
prompted Germany and her allies to
take thia step are manifest. For two
years and a half a terrible war has
been devastating the continent. Un
limited treasures of civilization have
been destroyed. Extensive acres have
been soaked with blood. Millions of
bravo soldiers have fallen in buttle
and millions have returned home as
invalids. Grief and sorrow fill almost
every house. '
Works of pocados'Aniiihilated.
"Not only upon the belligerent na
tions, but qlso upon neutrals, the de
structive consequences of the gigantic
struggle weigh heavily. Trade and
commerce, carefully built up In years
of peace, have been depressed. The
best forces of the nations have been
withdrawn from the production of
useful objects. Europe, which for
merly waa devoted to tho propagation
of religion and civilization, which was
trying to find solutions for social
problems and was the home of science
and art and all peaceful labor, now
! resembles an Immense war camp, in
j which the ac hievements and works of
J many decades are doomed to an
nihilation.
Teutonic. Armies rnshatKTed..
"Germany is carrying on a war of
defense against her enemies which aim
at her destruction. She fights to as
sure the integrity of her frontiers and
the liberty of the German nation, for
the right which she claims to develop
freely her intellectual and economic
energies in peaceful competition and
on equal footing with other nations.
All the efforts of their enemies are
unable to shatter the heroic armies
of the Teutonic allies which protect
the frontiers of their countries,
strengthened by the certainty that the
enemy shall never pierce the iron wall.
"Those fighting on tho front know
that they are supported by the whole
nation, which Is inspired by love for
its country and is ready for the great
tion and sacred soil of the country,
Germany lUwIy for IVav.
"Certain of our own strength, but
realizing F.urope's sad future if the
war continues; seized with pity in the
face of the unspeakable misery of liu-
manily, the German empire, in accord
with her allies, solemnly repeats what
the chancellor already has declared a
year ago, that Germany is ready to
give peace to the world by setting be
fore the whole world the question
whether or not it is possible to find
a basis for an understanding.
Count on I'oiH-'s Siipixirt.
"Since the first day of the pontifical
reign, bis holiness, the pope, has un
swervingly demonstrated in the most
generous fashion his solicitude for the
innumerable victims of this war. lie
has alleviated the sufferings and
ameliorated the fate of thousands of
men injured by this catastrophe. Ir,
spired by the exalted Idea of his min
istry, his holiness has seized every op
portunity in the interest of humanity
to end so sanguinary a war.
"The imperial government is firmly
confident that the initiative of the
four powers will find friendly welcome
on the part, of his holiness and that
the work of peace can count upon
the precious support of the holy see."
Itcquot Canadians Not to limv-t.
Ottawa, nut., Pec 12. Finance
Minister White today issued a request
tn Canadian investors to abtain from
Inlying non-Canadian investments,
and purchase only Dominion de ben
ture stock or conserve tin ir sawm:.
for Canadian war loans.
- Government Td'li" -Owiier-Uip..
Washington, Pec. 1 2 Representa
tive Lewis of Maryland, author of
the parcel post law. introduced a hill
lOu-iv, proposing pr.v., nmi-ni owner
thir of 'he public Uki h. nc .i.-Ueu in
the tdjiul.
Journal, Wednesday, December 13, 1916.
PRESIDENT SEES
D
E
Washington Depends Upon
Statements Prom Teuton
Embassy Regarding Terms
Likely to Be Proposed,
ALLIES NOT LIKELY TO
LISTEN TO SUGGESTION
Intention of Berlin to Influence
Neutral Sentiment Rather
Then Actually End War
Raging in Europe,
. HOIHlKI JUNAL ariCIAL LABID WIHII
Washington, Pec 12. Germany'
proposal for peace is regarded here as
having broken the chains which for
months have restrained the I'nlted
Slates, as well as other neutrals, from
making offers of mediation.
Now that one set f belligerents has
signified its willingness to discuss
peace terms a condition often reit
erated as necessary to any action by
President Wilson there are indica
tions that when the I'nlted States,
acting as tho Intermediary, transmits
tho German proposal, it may accom
pany lta action by some steps to
throw tho Influence of the I'nlted
States Into the balance for at least a
comlid'iration, however preliminai y,
of the torms on which a lasting peace
might bo brought to the world.
Ia-urm" of Nations Probable,
Some ranking officials of the Amer
ican government believe a league of
rations, such as President Wilson has
suggested, must be the outcome and It
could not be perfected without the
participation of the I'nlted States.
Whether tho 1'nltcd States will
transmit the German proposal with
out any comment whatever, or acrom
pany it with some formal or Informal
expression, will not be decided until
the note delivered to American Charge
Grew In Berlin reaches President
Wilson's hands, probably tomonoW.
There were Indications that Presi
dent Wilson might find some way to
express the solemn and earnest wish
of the United States for a careful con
sideration of the suggestion of peace,
even before the entente governments
have made known their attitude to
ward the German proposal. This, it
was pointed out, would necessarily
be done in such a delicate and ultia
confidentiul way that it. never .would
be known publicly should the allies
decline the offer. This course was
said to be absolutely necessary so as
to leave the 1'nited States free and
unembarrassed to net when an accept
able peace offer comes.
Will Sound I'.lik-nlo Allies.
Regardless of whether President
Wilson decides to accompany the Ger
man proposal with any word, it was
said tonight, he unquestionably would
take steps to learn the. attitude of the
entente allies toward the peace move
and possibly might send to Europo
bis personal friend and adviser, Col.
E. M. House.
None of the official dispatches had
i i rivcd today. The government's first
information was copveyed In tho As
sociated Press dispatches from Berlin.
President Wilson was said-W) b ,
"deeply interested, but reserving com
rnent. hecreiai v ,-ansMig ou.i '"'o
a similar nttitmie. i ne caninci dis
cussed the development al its regular
Tuesday meeting, but the situation
was described by members as so ob
viously delicate that no announcement
could be made.
Abm-iico. of Terms IlsapMiiiiling.
The absence of any specific terms
for peace in the note, or in the Ger
man chancellors speech, was in a
measure a disappointment to those
who expected some concrete
expres-1
bion of a Ixtsis on which
ncgotiations
OPPORTUNITY TO
BRING PRESSUR
FOR END OF IR
might begin. The German embassy, ! eignty and integrity, ami show ing so
however, is in possession of advice? j great an enetgy in repulsing any tres
which outline in a general way what j puss on its rights today this state
Germany expects, and the diploma ts I must lament the disgrace of sreing
of the entente powers, through their, Its sacred soil desecrated by the
means of being supplied with Infor- j proud Saxon tioops, a misfortune that
matlon. believe they have a general tire bandit Villa caused with his deeds
Idea of what t( rms the central pow-fat Columbus. As these deeds not only
willing to advance as the basis
crs are
of discussion.
II,., -on, flisti.itclies in iho German
. Kii..r .),,,. ,i,p
general terms might be in substance
as follows:
Tho I'roliahlc Conditions.
" restoration of the stains iio ex"
Ming Ih'I'otp the war. This InrJ tides
the evacii.-i'lon of Ih-lgium and tin
restoration of Uk ix-oupird Mir(ions of
northern Trance, with tin' exception
of Alsace and lorraiiio. N author
ized expression was obtainable from
the I'liihassy as to wltHlier i-onilitions
would Im at'a-Md lo tin- restoration
of Belgium and I rcm-h territory, hut
it was understood thai I In German
id. was t make provision for the
future n lit i id it y of lVlguiin and
piohuhlv pioMiM- di formication, par
'icnlailv of tin- city of Antwerp.
It !
was also iindrr-lood that no condition,, j
amounting to economic control of 1h-'
mineral lands of northern lYam-rj
would Is- likely afkcd. All (.ri-mant'i
,j . olmiv -ie c,cis to Im- re
turned. Her I1
; ions )n the If" ,
Lowt-ttar, ait uut a auIoU ot rt'
coiuvrn and the Berlin government I
,i!,clc,sliMi, to Im ready to rcliiu,iislj
the claim of Klau't linn.
Would Proti-ol Turkey,
of Constantinople would probably be
insisted upon by the central powers,
as well as the restoration of Albania.
The establishment of Independent
kingdoms in Lithuania and Poland
would be one of the factors in tho
German proposal, all hough that part
of Poland possessed by Germany at
the outbreak of the war would not be
Included.
What, adjustment would be made to
cover tho Trcvlno region between
Austria and Italy, or any provision
affecting Egypt, the Suez canal,
Mesopotamia, or the gateways of con
trol to the Indian empire, are not
made clear.
The Balkan situation Is considered
so delicate it would have to bo un
tangled In the peace conference.
Tho whole German view of tho
peace move Is that it I" step toward
a discussion of peace terms, which
ought to show somo definite progress
early In January. v
ItcniNtorl'f Is I'lea.M-d.
There is said to be no possibility
of a peace conference being held In
the I'nlted States. Borne and The
Hague are mentioned ns most likely
places, and It Is not doubted that
Count von Bernstorff, the German
ambassador here, would go us ono of
his country's representatives. Ills at
titude was expressed tonight In tho
following statement:
"I am, of course, extremely grati
fied at the step that has been taken.
I hope that It will be successful. Even
If It does not lead to peace, It qffers
proof that Germany wants peace, even
after a victorious campaign, and does
not desire the responsibility for fur-i
ther suffering of mankind, loss of life,
and property. Germany wants peuco
and does not desire conquest. I run
not Hay anything about the terms."
Reasons for .Movement.
Germany, It is said here, was moved
to bring out the peace proposals at
this time, principally because she had
given up hope that President Wilson j
would make a move. Another con-1
trolling factor was tho recent crisis In j
(t'nnlli,ne,l n 1'tiife 'two.)
Mexican' American Commission
He
convenes,
Washington, Pec. 12. Arrange
ments for the next conference of the
Mexican-American commission at
I hlladelphiu next Monday were ap
proved by President Wilson at tn
c'ay's cabinet meeting. Both Secretary
Lansing ami Secretary Lane said they
still were wtihuut Information ns to
whether General Carranza had ap
proved the protocol. U was believed,
however, that some changes will be
suKgcsted by tho Mexican.
S
PERSHING IS TO
New
SAY
BE FORCED OUT
PrOVisiOlial GOVernOr Of!"'" German positions in the east and
Chihuahua State Issues
Proclamation Regarding
Presence of Americans,
lar mobnino journal incitL Litn wiMtl
Kl Paso, Tex., Pec. 1. Gen. Ar-
nulfo Gonzalez, provisional governor
of Chihuahua, declared in his first
proclamation to the people after the
re-occupation of the city by Cu rran .a
troops that he would soon b ready to
Join tho first chief in forcing the re-
tiicmctit of the Ameiii.an punitive ex-
pedition.
An original copv of the printed
maul -slo, which bears tho date t.flieeu taken against ill Italian diver-j
Oceerotier !, was brought hero today isions. And while on the Homme and
f,.m ( 'hiliua hua by
a refugee.
General Gonzalez began bis procla- J while the Itusslans Inuuihcd troops
matlon by saying that the people i against the eastern frontier of Tran
have the rigid to know the line of a--Isylvania. Field Marshal von Hindoo
tion their governors intend to pursue burg captuied the whole of western
while in office. He continued: Wall.ielii.i and the hostile capital of
Governor's Proclamation. Burba i est, leading wilh unparalleled
"The stale of Chihuahua. In which
the spark of revolution found so pro
pitious it field, and which has always
been so jealous a defender of the dig-
inltv and cleanness of its institutions,
giving a proverbial example as a bel-
iigerent liberal in sustaining Its sov-
'injure the sovereignty or tne state, nut
also of the country, it is to-me ren
trril government that belongs the so-
lution of this conflict which threaten
the nation itself, and the responsibili
jlicH that history exacts before the
present and future generations.
Will Soon Assist Canal, a.
The patriotic attitude of the. first
chief in the face of this lamentable
incident is well known to all Mexi
cans. His forces have not. a single
moment reused to work toward a so
lution of the same by diplomatic
ways, preserving national pride and
autonomy. To support Ibis attitude
in our own sphere of action will be Mi
always a satisfaction to the govern
ment of this state, which may soon be
ready to reunite its forces to those of
the general government to bring
nl, out 1 1 1 t the foicns of Pershinir'K
nunitiic cxiioi'ilion.' so well known,
ex pm' n ion,
but so unjustified, may withdraw
as I
soort as-possible ftom the at a!."
Th r.-st of the manifesto. Governor
General Gonzales flevoles to promises
of educational, fmainiil and internal
if'orrn.; and "f dramm? out th re hi-Is
"who porjj-t in tht.f tirui "
RFRM3IJY mm PFACF
UUIimillll I MUM UUL.U I UIUU
TERMS: NOTIFIES NEUTRALS
Al POPE OF WILLINGNESS
TO BRING 10 TO AN END
CHANCELLOR ASSERTS JUSTICE
OF CAUSE FOR WHICH KAISER
ENTERED UPON HOSTILITIES
Great Praise Is Bestowed Upon Armies in Field and Confi
dence Is Expressed in Ability of Central Powers to Con
tinue to Fight Indefinitely, but Berlin Government Tires
of Bloodshed and Asks Only to Be Allowed to Develop
Such National Aspirations as Country Is Entitled to With
out Injustice to Rights of Other Powers; Trust in God
and Hindcnburg Is Still Supreme, According to Message
Delivered to Reichstag by Emperor's Spokesman.
(By Morning Journal
Berlin Dec. 1' tviiL Wireless to Say-
vllle.) Chancellor
von Bethmann-
HoIIwck's speech Is reported by the
overseas News agency as follows:
Chancellor von Bctlimann-llollwt g
! today announced to tho reiclistag that
iGeruinny, together with her allies,
"conscious of their responsibility be
ifoio God, before their own nations,
I heri,ro humanity," had proposed this
morning' to the hostile powers to cn
! ter on peace negotiations.
I Practically all tho members of par
liament answered tho unexpected
summons. The crowded house and
thronged galleries lisle mil In addi
tion when the chancellor rose for his
spec, li.
The chancellor first outlined the
extraordinary, political ulluutlon and
then the achievements of the central
powers, made an announcement w hich
possibly may bo the turning point In
the war, which for more than two
I '.'ears bus held the vorld under Its
spcl
The chancellor said:
l; Ic-is In Compii'sts.
"The reP hslag has not been ad
journed for a long period, but fortu
nately It was left to the discietlon of
the president as to tile day .of the
next meeting. This decision was
caused by the hope that soon happy
events in the field would be recorded,
a hope filled ipilcker. almost than ex
pcclod. I shall be brief, tor actions
speak for theinsclv es."
The chain cllor said limn 11P.1 bad
enter.-, 1 llio war in order to roll up
those of Germany s allies. At tne
same time the grand offensive oil the
Nomine had as jls object to pierce the
German western flout and the re
newed Italian allacks weic Intended
to paralyze Austria-Hungary.
Situation Then Serious.
...... . . .. i i
J lie summon w.in si i mi, in, no
chancellor continued, mil Willi ikxih
help our troops shaped conditions so
ns to give us security which not only
I is complete but still more so than ever
j before. The western front stands, j
Not only docs n stand ion in spno oi
the Ituuiaiiiau campaign it Is fitted
out with larger reserves of men audi
material than It had been formerly.
The most effective precautions have
on the aiso tne drum lire n-sui i,
I . . . . . K .,..11
genius, the troops that m compel u nu
with the allies made possible what
hitherto had be, n considered Impos
sible. Praise for llioilcobiiig.
"And Ilindeiiluirg does not icst. Mil
itary operations progress. By strokes
of the sword at the same time firm
foundations for our economic needs
have been bud. Great slocks of grain,
victuals, oil and other goods fell Into
our bauds in Itumama. Their tran
sport has begun. In spite of scarcity,
we could have lived on our own sup
plies, but how our safety is besom!
'piest ion.
"To these great events on land." the
chain llir etnl in ui il, "hi loir ,in i! ol
equal importance are ad, fed bv our
submarines. The fpeclcr of famine,
which our enemies intended to ap
pear b, fore us, now pursues ihetc
without im p y. W hen after the ter
mination of the fiist veiir of the war.
the emperor addressed the
a public appeal, he said:
witnosswd t.ueh great vi lits
was filled wilh awe and
nation in
'Having
mv heart
Irlerniina-
t ion.'
Nation Is at Work.
"Neither our emperor nor
uir nu
ll! ibis
eve r ( hanged their mind
r'-ynoi t. Neither have tin
V now.
of our
facts us
countei'
The genius and heroic lo ts
leaders have lashiomil thesi
firm as iron. If the eiienc.
upon the weariness of his enemy
tli. u
he was deceived.
"The rei'-hstag, by means of the mi -
tjoniL1 auxiliary war service law helped
to build a new offensive a nd defensive
bulwark 1n the inidsl of the ,vrcat
s'riicgle" the ehanrcllor eoid iiuied.
' Bf-houl the figMine srt'iv wnds th
nti'Jiial ''cik tiio .leijiUo force
Ihiily. by CnrrliT or Moll, 70o
a Month. Single C'opk-H. 5c,
Special leased Wire.)
'of the nation working for tllO rout.
inoii aim.
"The , mplro Is not a besieged for
tress us our adversaries Imagined, hut
one gigantic and firmly disciplined
camp with Inexhaustible, resources.
That Is the German empire which !
firmly and faithfully unttct! with Its
brothers In arms, who have been test
ed In battle under the Austro-Hungu-linn,
Turkish and Bulgarian flags.
"Our enemlei naw ascribed to u
a, plan to conquer the whole World,
and then desperate cries of anguish
for peace. Not confused by these as
p.erv at Ions, we progressed with firm
derision and We thus continue our
niogress. ulwavs ready to defend onr-
j selves and fight for our nation' ex
istence, for its free fiituie and always
ready for this price to stretch out our
hands for peace.
o pcaf to BiMnshlllty.
"Our strength has not made our
ears deaf to our responsibility before
God, before, our own nfition and be
fore humanity. The declaration for
merly made by us concerning our
readiness for peace Were evaded by
our adversaries. Now wo have ad
vanced one slep further in this direc
tion. "On August 1. 1914, I lie emperor
had personally to lake the gravest
decision which ever fell to the lot of
a German the order for mobilization,
which he was compelled to give as a
result of the Itiisslau mobilization.
Poring these long and earnest years
of the war the emperor has been
moved by a single thought. How
peace could be restored to safeguard
Germany after this struggle In which
she has fought victoriously.
"Nobody can testify better to this
than I, who bear the responsibility for
all actions of the government. In a
deep moral and religious sense of
duty this nation, beyond It, towardH
humanity, the emperor now considers
that the moment has come for offi
cial action towards peace.
Sends !'ot to TVi'iitrals,
"His majesty, therefore. In com
plete harmony and In common with
our allies, decided to propose to the
hostile powcia to enter Into peace ne
gotiations. This morning I transmit
ted a not,, to this effect to all the hos
tile pfiw-efs, through the representa
tives of those powers which are
wan lung over our Interests and rights
in the hostile states. I asked the
representatives of Spain, the I'nlted
States and Switzerland to forward
Hint note.
"The same procedure has been
adopted today In Vienna, Constantino
ple and Sofia. Other neutral states
and his holiness the pope, have been
similarly Informed."
Tc.vr or Nirn sent
TO HOSTILE GOVERNMENTS
Berlin, pec. 12. Following Is tho
text of the note addressed by Germany
and her allies to the hostile gov
ernments: "The mosl terrifle war ever experi
enced In history has been raging for
(lie last two years and half ovr.r ft
large part of the world a catastrophe
winch thousands of years of common
civilization was unable to present, and
whi'h inlures the most, precious
achievements of humanity. Our aims
are not to shatter nor annihilate our
adversaries. In spite of our conscious
ness of our military and economirr
Jtrength and our readiness to eontinilo
th war l which has been forced upon
uk i until the hitter end. if necessary,
at the same time, prompted by tho
desire to avoid furl her bloodshed and
make an end to the atrocities of war,
the foui allied powers propose to enter
forthwith into peace negotiations.
"The propositions which they bring
forwaid fur such negotiations and
which have for their object a guaran
tee of I ho existence of the honor and
bbi-rtv of evolution for their nations
are, according to their firm belief, an
appropriate hasis for the establish
ment of a lasting peace.
The four allied powers have been
obliged to take up arms to defond tho
Justice and the liberty of national ero
lutlon. The glorious deeds of our
armies have in no way altered their
purpose We always maintained th
turn Ul.tt 04.1 our wa rl&bU il
