IT1 yv IrSl If
PROSPERITY TALK
Oil Wirt no nnnthf-r dim yrMmliiv.
Tim rtce po.tr.l ,t $1.10. 'I'liU ift
A linmUoiMt lirlitiiiii rrrnt fur Ok
, Uli'iMin (irtiiliti ir, hut tlit' L
imirr vt Ihi kaniH Upturn Di-i't'inlicr 2j,
TIIPJ WEATHER
TIT.RA, T. II. Minimum 41,
Bilnlmuin IV N'urtli wunl nid rtmr.
OKLAHOMA YVishiniUr pirtly
clnuily, mldir; culil hvk In wrul mil
rrnlnl purtium. lliur.iin)' (rnvrall
fnlr.
"EDIT lOTS.
TULSA, OKLAHOMA, WEDNESDAY, DECK M HER 13, 1916
1J PAUL'S
PRICE FIVE CENTS
VOL. XII. 0. 84.
BRITAIN REFUSES
l u i nun i ilnuL
MEXICAN BREAK
AGAIN LOOMING
St'
GERMANY SUES FOR PEACE: END OF WORLD WAR 1Y BE JSI1
i .. i
I). S. MAY NOW MAKE FORMAL PLEA
FOR CLOSE OF TITANIC STRUGGLE;
CHANCELLOR CALLS ON NEUTRALS
w" - " -
Washington Thinks Nego
tiations May Come to
Head in January.
WASHINGTON. Dec. 12.
Germany's proposal for peace
is regarded here as having
hrokon the chains which for
months have restrained the
United States as well as other
neutrals from making offers
of mediation.
Now that one set of bellig
erents has signified its wil
lingness to discuss peace terms
a condition often reiterated
ns necessary to any action by
President Wilson there are
indications that when the
United States acting as the in
termediary transmits the Ger
man proposal it may accom
pany its action by some steps,
necessarily delicate, to throw
the influence of the United
States into the balance for. at
least a consideration, however
preliminary, of the terms on
which a lasting peace might
be perfected without the par
ranking officials of the Amer
ican government believe a
league of nations such as Pres
ident Wilson has suggested be
the outcome and it could not
be pcrfectedf without the par
ticipation of the United States.
Wait oil AH'u.
Whether tho t'nlted f?"V'es will
transmit tho German proposal with
out any comment whatever or ac
company it with some formal or In
formal expression will not be finally
decided until the note delivered to
American Charge Grew In Itorlln
1 ouches President Wilson's hands,
probubiy tomorrow.
There were indications tonight that
President Wilson miKht find some
way to express the Holumn and earn
est wish of tho I'nlted States for a
careful consideration of the suggos
t!on of peace even before the entente
governments have made known their
uttitudc toward the Gerniun propo
sal. This, It was pointed out, would
necessarily be done In such a deli
cate and iiltrnconfidcntlat way that
It never would be publicly known
should the allies decline tho offer.
This course was said to be absolute
ly necessary so as to leave the I'nlted
States free and unembarrassed to net
when an acceptable peace offer
conies.
Wilson Will Act.
Regardless of whether President
Wilson decided to accompany tho
German proposal with any word, it
was said tonight he umtuestlonably
would take steps to learn the attitude
of the entente allies toward the peace
move and possibly might attain send
to F.tirope his personal friend and
adviser. Col. E. M. House.
None of the official dispatches had
arrived tonight. Tho government's
first information was conveyed in the
Associated Press dispatches from
Uerlln. President Wilson was said to
be "deeply interested," but reserving
comment. Secretary fjuislng main
tained u similar attitude. The cabi
net discussed the development at Its
regular meeting, but the situation was
(1 esc rilied by members ns so obvious
ly delicate that no announcement
could bo made,.
SimccIi l)lsaiMilntliig. .
The absence of any specific terms
for pence in tho note or III tho Ger
man chancellor's speech was In a
measure a disappointment to those
who expected some concrete expres
sion of a basis on which negotiations
might begin. Tho German embassy,
however, Is in possession of advices
which outline in a general way what
Germany expects and tho diplomats
of tho 'entente powers, thru their
means of being supplied with Infor
mation, believe they havo a general
Idea of whnt terms tho central pow
ers are willing to advance as tho basis
tor discussion.
Haccnt dispatches to the German
embassy covering' a wide range of sub
jects Indicate a belief that tho gen
eral terms might be in substance as
follows:
Terms Mke-ly.
A restoration of the status quo ex
isting before tho war. This Includes
the evacuation of Hclglum and the
restoration of the occupied portions of
northern France, with the exception
of Alsuce and Lorraine. No author
ized expression was obtainable from
... i .. .. . ...I.AiliA. nnnilillnna
i.i i... a'ti..i.hf.i tr tho restoration
of Belgium and French teritory, but
It was understood that the uermnn
Idea was to make provision for the
future neutrality of Pelglum
ana
probably proposo rtefortiflcntion, par
ticularly of tho city of Antwerp. It
was also understood that no condi
tions amounting to economic control
(ONHXI KI) OS BACK TAfiE
UP
I
t
Ytxj maS
Shoppers
l-EPT TO SMOP.
READ OUR. APS
SPEED
TVi 4 'J
Teutons Victorious but
Seek to Save EuropeL
Asserts Hollweg.
HFllLIN, lieo. 12. (Py wlrclo.'s M
ray villi-. ) Germany, victorious im
every frcint, Imt realizing I Imt the futo
of bleeding L'urope hank's In Iho bal
ance. In ready to negotiate with her
enemies for a l:irl Inn peace, Chancellor
vim Hctlimaun-llnllwcg told the ro'ch.
slag lodnv.
Chancellor von Hethmatui -llollweg's
speech Im reported liy the Oversea
News agency as follows:
"Chiince-llur vim Mcthmunn-IInllwcg
today unnouii' ed to the rrichst-ig that
Germany, together with yll hi-r nlllcs,
conscious of their rebponslhllltv before
(Jof, before their own nations, be foro
humanity, had proposed to t lie hostile
powers to enter on pence neuotla
tionii." l'raetii'allv all the members of oar
liamont answered the unexpected sum-
ir.ons. The crowded house and
thronged (cilleries listened In attentive
slleni'e when the chancellor rose for
Ms speech.
The chancellor first outlined the ex
traordinary political situation, and
then. Insisting upon the. achievements
of the central powers, made an an
nouncement which possibly iiinv be the
turnlnir point In the war, which for
more than two years turn held the
world under lis spell.
The chancellor sd
f'lmiiM'llor HollwegN SM'ch.
"The reichstag had not been nd
inurnod for a lonir period, hut for
tunately it wan left to the discretion of
Iho president an to the day of the next
meeting. Thin decision wnn caused by
the hopo that soon liappy events In tho
field woubl he recorded, a hope ful
filled oulcker. utmost, than expected.
I shall be brief, for actions speak for
thomsrlvos."
The chancellor paid Rumania - had
tntcre.1 the war in order to roll up tho
German positions In the east and those
of Germany's allies. At the same time
the sranrt offensive on the Homme had
im its object to pierce tho German
front and the renewed Italian attacks
vere intended to paralyze Ausirla
Ilungarv. Victorious Everywhere.
"The situation wan serious." the
ejmncellor coi.tinued, "but with God')
hcTp" our troops shaped conditions so
us to give us security which not only
lu ei.mi.lete. but Hi 111 more HO ma"
front
m.nn i.rri.n Ml 11 "in II
,nn,in v,.t onlv rires It stand, but. la
spite of the Kummilun campaign. It H
fitted out with larger reserves of men
Mid material than It hud ben former
ly The most cffectlvo precautions
liuvo been takon against all Italian di
versions. And while on tho Komino
and on the f'arso tho drum fire r
...i.tt .im Pimsiuns laiincheo
souuiieii win'" - .1 rt
inu.M .umlnst the eastern frontier or
Transvlvanla, Field Marshal von llln
dunhui'g capt.irer) the wholo of west
ern Wallachla and the hobtilo c-iplta
of Itucharest. leadlr.g with urn anil ed
senilis the troops that In competit on
with all the ulllev made possible what
hitherto whs considered Impossible.
' "And Hlndenburg "s not rr18,'
Military operations progress. ly
strokes of the sword at tho-sunie time,
- - lur nur eeolleml'
needs have hen laid. Great stocks of:
grain victuals, oil ami omei jumi"
r... '.. i.nn.ts lii Uiimania. Their ,
transport has begun. In spite of scar-I trusted with the protection of Ger- opinion was expressed that Germany's
cltv we could have lived on our own 'mail interests In tho countries wit!i ' pi oposals, as outlined by her tllplo
am.iiiies but now our safety Is beyond I which the German empire is In a ' r alio representatives were far more
rtUi'inn, U.l.i irnnuniita ftw.rt D n I OS .w i n t , Iw.n ul limn 1...I l..,n ,.vi,..el.
nuestion
No Fear of Famine
"To these great events on land."
tho chancellor ontlnued, heroic,
deeds of equal importance are added
by our submarines. The spectre or
.:i ,.,i,i..h mir Piieniles Intended to
appear before us, now pursues
them
..hi,. ,i,t mniTv. When after
tho ter-
minatlon of the first year of tho war.
the emperor addressed tiie nation "talln(? llie rontlnent. rnllniited trens.
. ....kiln niinea . ho nam: -Jlltx um ii-i
he said: 'Having
H l' " "'. " I,,..rl
l u,.v, ..runt events. VI V com
was fllicd with awe and determinu-
"""Neither our emperor nor our na
tion ever chanced their minds lu this
respect. Neither havo they now. Iho
genius and heroic, acts of our leaders
have fashioned these facts as firm as
Iron If the enemy counted upon tho
weariness of his enemy, then ho was
deceived. , , .
"The relohstaR-, by means of tho
national auxiliary war service law,
helped to build a new offensive and
defensive bulwnrk In the midst of the
great struggle."
Tho chancellor continued:
Nol o Besieged Fortress.
nehlml the fighting army stands
tho nution at, work tho gigantic force
of tho nation working for the com
mon aim.
"The empire Is not a besieged for
tress, ns our adversaries Imagined,
but ono gigantic and firmly discip
lined camp with Inexhaustlblo re
sources. That Is tho Gorman cmplro
which is firmly and faithfully united
-with its brothers In arms, who havo
been tested In battle, unaer me Ausiro
I u ..ncrnrinn. Turkish and Bulgarian
flags. Not confused by asseverations,
i we progressed wnn nrm oucisiun uimtno ripni wnicn sub nun uric...,.
1 we thus continue our progress, always freely for her 'nteleetual and cconnm.
ready to.aorenu ourselves mm ukui
fnr nnr nntion's existence, for Its free
future and always ready to stretch
out our hand for peace.
Not "SHHeel by Suevess".
"Our strength has not made our
ears deaf to our responsibility before
God, beforo our own nation and be
fore humanity. The declarations for
merly mode by us concerning- our
readiness for peace were evaded by
our adversaries. Now we have ad
vanced ono step further In this di
rection. "On Auuiist 1. 1814. the emperor
I had personally to take the (cravest de.
Iclslon which ever fell to the lot of a
CONTINUED ON' BACK PAGB
The German Government's Bid
IU KI.IN, Dec. li. Following Is the text of the note mlilr e.-scil by German) nml lier allies to the
hostile Kncriilliciila:
'The mo-t Urrlfle war over e.H-rlciiccl in history has been riMthiir for the last two year nml it
hair over u large Mirt of the world a ciitnslroplie which thoiiMimU of years of common l lliiitlii
was unable to prevent ami which Injured the most precious nchleveineiils or Immunity.
'Our alms are not to shutter nor iimilhlliiie our mUersai-li's. In spite or our consciousness of
our military nml ci-onomlc slreimlh nod our rcuilinc to eonilnue the war (which has been forced
upon us) until the hitter end If necessary; at (he slime time prompted by the desire o aoi further
bloodshed ami make nil end to the atrocities or war, the four allied powers propose lo enter iniihwllli
inlo iH'iiee negotiations.
"The proportions which they brim; forward for such negot in lions anil hae for their objis't n
giiaranli-e of the exlstcms', honor nml lllici-ty of cMihiliou for their nations, are, according to their firm
belief, appropriate basis for Iho establishment of u lasting peace.
'The four allied owers have Ims-ii obliged lo lake up arms lo defend Justice and the lllM-rty of
national evolution. The glorious dis-ils of our armies hate hi no way altered their iniHisc. We always
maintained Die firm belief that our own rights mid Justified claims hi no way control the rights of
them- nations.
"The spiritual anil material progress which were the pride of I'uropc at the Is glniilng or the twen
tieth century arc threatened with ruin. Germany and her allies, Austria-Hungary, lliilgarin and Tur
key, gae proof of their iiueoiiipicruhlc strength hi Ibis struggle. They gullied giganlie inhanliiKes out
udvcrsiirics superior In number and war material. Our Hues stand unshaken against ever rccalcd
iiileinpls made by armies.
The last uttaek ill the llalkans has Ims'ii rapidly and letorloiisly oerisniie. Tl lost nsvnt
ctents have demonstrated that further continuance of the war will lU't result in breaking the rcsMauco
or our forces and the whole situation with regard to our troops Justifies our expectation of further
Micivsscs.
"ir. in spite or this offer of s aic and rcconell inllon, the struggle should go on, the four Hilled
powers Tire resolved to continue to a victorious end, but they disclaim responsibility lr this Is fore Im
munity and hi-tory. The tnicrtul government, thru the (.cod oft'iis'H of your cxisileni y. asked the go.
eminent (here is Inscm-d the nuiiie or neutral hiu er uildrcsscd hi each instanis.') lo bring this com
munication to tlu- knowledge of the government (here arc Inserted I he names of the iK'lligcrcnls) ."
After reading the note the chuiH-clhir said:
"Gentlemen: In August, IV! I, our enemies challenged the siiMtoi ity or mi'r in the world war.
J'lidurwc raise the question of penis.-, which Is a iieslion of humanity. We await I he answer of our
cnmiics with thai scrciicness .r mind which Is guaranteed lo us by our exterior and Interior slrength
ami by our ch ar conscience. If our enemies dis llne to end the war, if lb' J wl-h to lake upon hcmsccs
the world's licaiy burden or all these terrors which hereafter will follow, then een In the lea-t and
smallest homes v cry German heart will burn in sacred wrath against our enemies, who are unwilling
to slop human slaughter in order ttiul their plans of compicM and annihilation may eonilnue.
"lu 11 fateful hour we took a fateful ilivl-lon. It has been saturated with the blood of hundreds
of thousands of our Mills mid brothers, who gave their lives for the safety of ilielr home. Human wits
mill human understanding are unable to reach lo the extreme and last iicsious in this struggle or na
tions which has unveiled ull the terrors of earth, hut also the grandeur of human courage ami human
will in ways never seen before. God will lie Hie Judge. We can proceed upon our way without fear and
unashamed. We are ready for fighting ami we arc ready for peace."
POPE ASKED TO
TRY FOR PEACE
Germans Appeal to Vatican
and Enclose Note Also Sent
to War Nations.
"FOR THE GOOD OF EUROPE"
Millions Slain and Every Home
in Grief, Says Message
to Holy See.
PEIU.IX. Dec. 12. The note pre
sented by Dr. Von Muhlberg, German
minister to the Vatican, to Cardinal
Gaspuiri, papal secretary of state,
fol -
lows:
"According to Instructions received.
I have the honor to send to your eml -
pence a copy of the declaration which
i ii.ie iic. t mm in i.i.i.i.., uj
the good offices of tho powers on-
and In which the imperial government
declares Itself ready to enter Into
peace negotiatl jus. I he Atistro-ilun-
ganan, Turkish and Huigarlan gov
eriinients also have sent him similar
notes.
"The reasons which prompted Ger
many and her allies to take tills step
are manifest. For two years and a
half a terrible war has been devns
....
civilization havo been de
u,,s '1
stroyed. Kxlensivo areas have been
soaked with bl ind. Millions of brave
soldiers have fallen in battle and mil
lions have returned home us Invalids.
Grief and sorrow fill ulmost every
home.
Weighs On All.
"Not only upon the belligerent na
tlc ns, hut also upon neutrals, the de
structive, consequences of the gigantic
struggle weigh heavily. Trade and
commerce, I'lirefully built up in years
of peace, havo been depressed. The
best forces of the. nations have bren
withdrawn from the production cf
useful objects. F.uropo, which former
ly wui devoted to tho propagation of
religion and civilization, xvhlcli was
trying to find solutions for social
problems and was the home of science
and art. and all peaceful labors, now
resembles an Immense war ramp In
which the achievements and works if
many decades uie doomed to annihi
lation. War eif Defense.
"Get many Is carrying on a war of
defense agulnst her enemies, who .ilni
nt her destruction. Sho fights to RS-
Lorn the integrity of her frontiers and
the liberty of the German nation, for
ir fncrgles in peaceful competition
and on equal footing with either na
tions. All the effores of their ene
mies lire unable to shatter the heroic
armies of the (Teutonic) allies, w hich
protect the frontiers of their countries,
itrengthened by the certainty that tho
eremy snail never pierce tho Iron
wall.
"Those flghtlnB on the front know
that they are supported by the wholo
nation, which is Inspired by love for
its country and is ready for tho
greatest sacrifices and determined to
defend to the last extremity the In
herited treasure of Intellectual and
economic work and the social or
COXJIXCED OX BACK PA0I
STOCK MARKET WILD
AFTER PEACE MOVE
Steel Shoots Down and De
moralization Follows; Sales
Approach Record.
NKW YOltK, Hoc. 12 I'nsettlo
nient bordering on demoralization
overlook tho stock market today on
announcement of peace overtures bv
Germany and her ullles. Losses of
five to ten points were sustained by
such s'peculatlvo Issues us United
States Steel, Crucible Steel, N-w York
Airbrake, Ftuh Copper, Central Loath
er. International Puper and American
Locomotive, while I'.elhlehem Steel
declined 21 points. Golf States 19 and
l llited States Industrial Alcohol
Hankers whose connections with
thn central tmu'eru urn ml mil teil Iv
ieloho ami the lnAvcrful lnterestH rep
resenting; the ententu allies seemed
unprepared for the news. The Infer-
lff.ee gathered from bl;!i sources was
,lhllt t,0 entente ulllcd"po'wers would
1 not seriously entertain negotiations at
un nine,
In so-called neutral oiiarters
the
i ed. Novel thelesi, It seemed to he the
I more pcncrul opinion that the psycho-
logical mumoiit for a peace meeting'
was still some months off. In this con-
feetic-n notice xens taken of the fact
that exchange on Germany and Austria
today moved further away fri in those
countries than before, with recurrent
weakness lu rates on Italy and Kussln,
with new lows on Anglo-French
bonds. Some correction of these ad
verse conditions was noted before the
end of the day.
Wheat Values Go wn.
CHICAGO, Lee. 12. Wheat values
plunged wildly 1l.tw11w.1rd twice today
tlrf-t on account of Germany's re
ported overtures for peace and, sec
iiidlv, owing to traders' assumption of
a likelihood that the character of the
terms reported lo have hetn offered
for discussion would bring about un
acceptance. Kxtremc break') In p'lees
reached 1 1 i cents a bushel and rtere
uccompnnled by transactions amount
ing to millions of bushels.
Closing quotations el the day von:
nt nearly the bottom level touched,
w ith the market as a w hole 4 7n cents
to 104 cents under yesterday's finish
11 lid with Mav at Jl.Ba'-i to $l.t5-1
and July at 1 . 4 J to 11.43.
TI.MF. WIXL HI'KXT.
You ennnot spend a few min
utes each day to bettor ndvnn-tag-e
thHii by reading over Tho
World Want Columns, for In
them Is a wealth of useful In
formation about things In tho
business and home worlds.
The World Want Columns are
classified, too, under different
headings, so that if you tiro not
Interested, for instance, In buy
ing an automobile, but are anx
ious to buy a house, you can
readily turn to the very part of
the column you desire to read
and ou will not have to wado
thru them all.
Still, It often happens that
reading over The World Want
Ads, lead you to something
whldh will help and assist you
In ways that you never thought
of when you picked up tho pa
per. -I'hone SO00.
i
for Peace
DEATH FOR BANK
. ROBBERS URGED
State Bankers Recommend
Capital Punishment for
Pandits; Up to Solons.
TO OFFER GREATER REWARDS
Drastic Action Necessary
Stop Depredations, Asso
ciation Thinks.
to
SpiM-inl tu Tim V'orM.
OKLAHOMA CITY, Dec. 12.- Cap
ital punishment, with death in tho
electric chair a pos' ability and not less
than ten years in tlie penitentiary lor
convicted bank robbers, was recom
mended by the Oklahoma Slate Hank
ers uK.suelatioii ill resolutions adopted
today. The association concluded its,
annual convention this evening.
Another .resolution places in the
hands of the legislative committee t ho
work of securing legislation mollify
ing Hie usury law to put state hanks
on a par Willi national hanks. In caso
of conviction in usury national banks
are only penalized to double the
amount of Interest above usury, while
I""'''1
the state law state hanks are
liable for the interest and principal.
The matter of changing the fiscal
iiKciicy for Oklahoma hanks from
New York rity to Oklahoma was
recoiumcmled by the bunkers and the
mattir left to the legislative com
mittee. I
ICcward t'ucslioii I p.
ijuestlon of rewards for bank rob
bers was disciised witli a movement
toward Increasing them, with the final
result of the recommendation of more
severe penalty for those convicted.
There is a reward now of J.'iOO from
tho bank guaranty fund that is avail
able. It was decided to nsk the legis
lature to Increase this to $7MI. It was
only during consideration of the mat
ter of rewards, at this session, that
hanking department oft'ielals discover
ed that u reward of J.lllO payable from
the guaranty fund was available thru
legislative act of soinn years ago.
Members of the oxcoutno council
Wire eh'Cted today as follows: lUslrlct
1, W. F. liarher. Lawton;dlstrlct 2,
Charles Knglc, F.I Kcno; district 3,
l.vmmi J. Gray, Guthrie; district 4,
S. C. Garnet, Nowata; district D, M. J.
Shannon, Krebs.
Ofrirers Chosen.
i The council is composed of in mom
bets and they met tonight and elected
I the following officers:
A. I. Kennedy, Okmulgee, presl
' dent, ro-elected ) ; W. F. Harbor, Law
1 ton, vice-president; liert A. Hudson,
Temple, tri-usurer; C. K. Iloardman,
Oklahoma City. secretary, tie
elected). MESSENGER BOY RUN DOWN
AND HAS LEG BROKEN
Rc.bert True, a 17-year-old messen
ger In the employe of tho (Junker
dru? store, was struck down last night
at tho Intersection of Seventh and
Jienver by an electric automobile, tho
driver of which tho police wero un
able to locate following tho accident.
The boy's left loff was broken by
being run over by tho electrlo auto
incbllo ami he was rushed to tho Phy
sicians end Surgeons hospital, whero
the Injured member was given Im
mediate attention. Tho boy real don
with his parents at ninth and Quaker,
Terms of German Proposal
Must lit Ki'ci'ivi'd First,
Foreign Office Says.
PESSIMISM RULES
IN LONDON
One Official Fears Proposal
May Not Fven Kesult in
Pare Negotiations.
I.OIMl, 1 iiw, 12. The foreign
office today inhu med the Aim luted
Press that it Is nnii hie lo discus the
German peace proposal until the
ti l ins have Ih-cii leeched. Meanwhile,
the nl III mil- of the llrili-h gotern
meiil toward misIIc peace terms re
mains as fieinently eniiuelalcd by the
former premier and fon lmi secretary.
A general lioti' of petislinlsiu
in-
vails III London. One
pi miiliH'ht of i
final expressed himself lo the Asso
ciated Press today as being very skep.
Ileal that the proposal for peace would
offer I'M'ii a basis for negotiations on
Its terms.
This official said, however, thai the
note was a dramatic coup w hich w ould
creiile interestlni: developments in Un
diplomatic situation and provide I he
first official peace otcitutcs of the
war. Till- oflcr finds the foreign of
fice upset In the midst of a change of
adiiiinisliatloo, hut as the new foreign
secretary, A. .1. Itairour, has kept most
closely in touch Willi foieign affairs
while serving in a difleniit depart
ment in the late gn mini lit, it Is not
expected that It will lake long lor
him to hi
Grey, the
as well prepared as iseount 1 stead of fixing- his signature. Car
retiring foielun secretary, lid ranx.i has proposed changes in the
take eli. Hue of Gn at lii ltain's end of
any negotiations that might follow
Gei man)'s ofter.
All ho it Is still a matter of mere
speculation, diplomats believe the
Modus Operandi would lollow I In- pi e
reilent set hy the iiegotritlons which
ended the Spaiili.h American war,
whin I'limee presented the Spanish
ofli r thru Jules fiiiuhon. the French
an .bassador at Washington.
No action could be taken, of course,
without fully consultation with Grcnt
llritaln's allies.
Much speculation in official circles
as to the possible action of the
rcichstug today bad hardly prepared
Ihcni for an actual offer of peace and
the utmost curiosity was displayed us
to the details of the proposed turins.
BRAKEMAN "SIDE-SWIPED;"
BADLY INJURED BY FALL
T. V. Kxan Is Ill-ought lo Oklahoma
Hospital SoGerlng Painful
Injuries.
T. I. Uynn, brakeuian for the Mid.
land Valley, was brought to thn ok
l.iloma hospital late last night, suf
fering from injuries sustained at
Jenhs when he was knocked from the
train he wis working on by being
"side. swiped" hy nnotlnr train while
making a siding.
The Injuries to Ityan 1 onslsted of
a hiully bruise, I right shoulder and
other hri.tscH iiiuhntit the' body, re
ceived by a fall of several feet In the
right-of-way. Attending physicians
stated last night that the injured man
probably would be disi barged
from
duty
the hospital and returned for
Wit bill 11 couple of Weeks
mi kes his home in Muskogee.
Ilyan
CAR PEOPLE SEEK
NEW BRIDGE ROUTE
Tulsa Street Railway Track
May Approach Span Over
Newly Proposed Line.
When the mayor and board of city
coiumisiouci s met yesierdny morning
in regular session, one of the first
matters to he brought to their atten
tion was that in which tho Tulsa
Street Itailway company seeks to ap
proach t ho Tulsa iinl of the new
hililge Which is now Hearing com pie.
tion to span the Arkansas between
tills city and West Tulsa.
When It was learned, several days
11 go, that the city coiuinisloiiei s wrru
not In favor of the stieet car line pro
ceeding down u narrow thirty-foot
stieet, the traction company an
nounced that It stood ready to auree
to any other route which might give
them un approach to the brulge, ami
nt the same time facilitate the hand
ling of cars with any degree of htand
ard service.
Plan New Itoute,
It was proposed to the mayor and
commissioners yesterday that tho
company construct tracks over a route
which would quit Fifth at Jackson,
over which It would procc'I south to j
ino euge 01 me miners iiciu ami
thence west em a strip of land to
within proximity of the, cud of the
bridge.
1 uncials of the traction company
held 11 conference with Mayor Sim
mons yesterday afternoon and in isjin
pany with the city engineer and tho
mayor these officials made n per
sonal survey of the proposed route.
It Is expected that some defiuito ac
tion will bo taken on the location of
this lino within the next week in or
der that the company may begin
work as quickly us possible and have
It completed by tho time tho bridge
Is finished.
To Kcpalr Viaduct.
Tho city commissioners also took
up tho matter of approving the bond
of tho contractor who will repair the
condemned Third street viaduct, work
on which has been held up pending
tho arrival of lumber. Aside from
these matters and the announcement
by Mayor Simmons that tho attorney
general of tho state had declared bis
willingness to approve the boulevard
bonds of $100,0(10, hut few other mat
ters wore brought up for consider
ation by the members of tho board
of city commlsstouui's.
Carranza's Failure to Sign
Protocol May Undo Work
of Joint Commission.
GONZALES DEFIES AMERICA
Chihuahua
"Proud
Governor Says
Saxon Troops"
Should Pe Forced Out.
WASHINGTON, I ee. 12. Carrnn
za's action on the protocol signed at
Atlantic Ctlv liy tho Mcxiciin-AincrN
can Joint commission will he submit
ted to the American commissioners by
the Mexican members at a prelim
inary meeting to be held at Philadel
phia Iieccmher I H. I'jinn the nuturo
j of the report of Alherlo J. Paul, who
i'lirrl
d the protocol to Carranm for
hi- hliiitiiturr
will depend whether the
coiifcieiiecM are to continue In a fur
ther effort to adjust ull questions at
issue between the Fulled States ami
the de facto government.
Arrangements for the next 1110011117
wi re approved hy President Wilson at
today's cabinet meeting. Neither Sec.
rotary Lansing iinr Secretary Ijine,
who heads the American commission
its. could Hay definitely whether Car
lae.i bod sinned the protocol. They
bad been Informed bv the Mexican
members who suggested the date of
the Philadelphia meeting that the text
of their first chief's coiiiiiiciiIh on the
protocol would lie submitted then.
( hiingi'N Proposed, IVnr.
oifielnls here are inclined, however,
to 11 edit imof ,'lelal rePoits that 111-
agreement, and It Is feared that his
altitude may nullify all of tho work
of the commission and cause further
complications.
It was Indicated clearly tonight that
a demand for material changes In the
protocol such as foreshadow ed by the
determination of I'.UTinza to insist
uiicoiiiiitlonaliy upon retirement of
American troops from Mexico would
mean Immediate abandonment of the
conferences.
Mr. pit nl Is expected hero tomorrow
night.
. (ionairs' liefy.
KL PASO, line-. 12 lon. Arnulfo
Gonr.ales. governor of Chihuahua, de
eli.red In his first proclamation to the
people after the reoccupation "t the
city by C.irranzit troops, that hu would
six 11 be rcsdv to Join the first chief
in brhiglng about the retirement of
the Amerleun punitive expedition.
A copy of the printed manifesto,
which bears the date of liecemher t,
was brought here today from Chi
huahua by n refugee.
General Gonzales began his proc
lamation by saying that tho people
have the right to know the lino of
action their governors intend to pur
sue while in office. Ho continued:
His Manifesto.
"The state of Chihuahua, in which
the spark of revolution found so pro
pitious a field and which Iihs always
lieen ho Jealous a defender of tho dig
nity and cleanness of its Institutions,
giving a proverbial example us a bel
ligerent liberal ill sustaining Its sov
ereignty and Integrity and showing so
gn at an energy in repulsing and tres
pass on its rights, today must lament
tile disginee of seeing its sacred soil
desecrated by the proud Saxon troops,
a misfortune that the Pundit Villa
caused with Ills deeds at Columbus.
"As these deeds not only injuro
the sovereignty of stale, but also of
the country, it Is lo tho central gov
ernment that belongs thn solution of
this eoiitllct which threatens tho na
tion Itself and the responsibilities that
history exacts before tho present and
future generations. The patriotic at
titude of the first chief in the face
ol this lamentable Incident is well
known to ull Mexicans.
Seek Withdrawal.
"Ills forces have not a single mo
ment ceased to work toward a solu
tion of the same by diplomatic ways,
preserving national pride and nuton
omv. To support this attitude In our
own sphere of ndlon will he always
a sattsf'clion to the government of
tills state, which may soon bo ready
to unite Its lorces to those of the gen
eral government to bring about that
the forces of Pershing's punitive ex
pedition, so well known, but so un
Jnstilied, may withdraw us soon as
possible from the state."
The rest of the manifesto Governor-General
Gonzales devotes to
promises of educational, financial
and Internal reforms nml or clean
ing out tho rebels "who persist in
their errors."
The Emptu Stockings
Paul Gould walked Into The Worbl
editorial rooms yesterday, a silver dol
lar gripped tightly In his little hand.
"I saved my pennies all year," ho
told tho F.nipty Stocking man. "I
put them Into a Christmas savings
account. Yesterday I got my check.
1 wanted to bring you $5 but mamma
told me 1 would bo enough. I've
been reading The World every morn
ing about the poor children and I
don't think It Is growing fast enough
so I want to help, l'leaso give this
dollar to Santa Clans and tell him
to buy something for tho poor kids
with It for Christmas."
Have VOL' scut In YuFlt contribu
tion yet?
Following Is the status of tho fund:
previously reported
W. L. Connelly
Paul Gould
Mrs. F. II. Woodard.
No Name
$50.00
10.00
1 no
1.00
1 00
63.00
Total to date
Through an error a contribution of
$2 was credited to "No Name" In yes
terday's World, when It should hav
has been going on for some time,
edged In the ubove list.
V
