Sir
Mm
ite#
li^ar
United States steel was quoted at
an Initial gain of a fraction on its
first offering of H.000 shares.
Christmas Stories
Dealing With Birth
of Christ Barred
Chicago, Dec. IS—Christmas stories
dealing with the birth of Jesus Christ
will not be heard in publie schools
this year. In past years Christmas
exercises have been held in all schools
except two, where the pupils were
largely of the Jewish faith.
Today Superintendent Shoop sent
a bulletin to all principals calling at
tention to the law prohibiting sec
tarian exercises in schools.
H. C. INQUIRY BEGINS
IWand Grand Jury Today Begins
Investigation of Coal Situation
in New Tork.
New Tork, Dec. 18.—A federal
grand Jury began here today Its in
vestigation into the Increased cost of
liYlng. The coal situation was the
flrst subject into which the federal
authorities delved. Subpoenas were
Issued for representatives of coal
companies and of coal carrying rail
roads.
Holland Prepares to
Handle Only Foreign
Grain Shipments
London, Dec. 13.—An Amsterdam
dispatch to the Times quotes the
Maasbode as saying that after It was
known that David Lloyd George had
become British premier a special
meeting of the Dutch cabinet was
held. After this meeting the Maas
bode says, telegrams were sent to all
Dutch shipping agents In America
Instructing them to reserve all avail
able tonnage for government grain
and cancel all arrangements for other
freights.
•I*. tSJt Wj sr
WILSON SEEK
LLOYD GEORGE MAY STATE GREAT
BREVE SOMETHING WILL OBTAIN
fENTENTE TERMS AREMADEKNOWN
TO TEUTONS RGHTING MORE StVtRE
Important Developments Take Place in Rumania—
Rumanian Resistance Overcome Along
Jalomitza River.
London—Although little confidence to shown here that Germany's
peace proposal will have any result, there Is an under current of feel
ling that something would be gained by making the world acquainted
with the objects of the belligerents. The British government's attitude
will be made known in the house of commons tomorrow If it has
sufficient time to consult England's allies. The press supporting the
administration believes little time will be taken up with the German
move, but the moderate opinion does not favor hasty rejection of the
overtures. It Is believed the German people, once acquainted with
the objects of the entente, might be more Inclined towards peace and
for that reason if for no.other the terms of the entente allies should
be made known to. the central powers. The report Is current here
that Emperor William is about to announce the granting of a parlia
mentary form of government to Germany.
PEACE PROPOSALS OVERSHADOWS INTEREST IN WAR.
Fighting is continuing on the battlefields of Europe, but interest
In the operations is overshadowed by the pending peace proposals of
Germany and her allies.
The proposals voluminously are commented upon by the press of
both the entente allies, but with the handicap of lack of definite
knowledge of the terms upon which the central powers are willing to
discuss peace. In general, the tone of the entente press comment is
not optimistic aa to the probable .auqqess of the overtures. German
newspapers lay emphasis upon the offdr as a sign of strength rather
than wwkiiws. finwi BrifeUn^-attituda* according to dis
patches, may be made known in the house of commons when it re
convenes tomorrow, provided. thetlme proves auJTleieii for lier to oon
sult with her allies.
IMPORTANT OPERATIONS DEVEX/OP IN RUMANIA.
Military operations within the past 24 hours have developed im
portant happenings only in the Rumanian war area. Here the Teu
tonic armios arc continuing tlieir advance In eastern Wallaciila. Ber
lin announces that tile Rumanian resistance has been overcome along
the Jalomitza river, where a stand has been made by the Ruman
ians, reinforced by Russian cavalry. The Rumanian armies are re
ported again in full retreat to the northeast, presumably falling back
upon the line of the Buzcu close to the southern Moldavian border.
More than seven thousand additional prisoners were taken by
Field Marshal' von Mockcnscn's armies yesterday.
Russians Capture Trenches.
Petrograd, via,London, Doc. 13.—
Russian troops yesterday captured a
line of Teutonic trenches on heights
to the south of Agusualia in the re
gion of the Trotus valley of Rumania,
according to an official statement Is
sued today by the Russian war de
partment. The Teutons counter-at
tacked in an effort to regain the lost
positions but were repulsed with great
losses, the statement adds.
STOCK MARKET RECOVERS
Bethlehem Stell Adds 14 Points
Low of 37, But This to Only
Exception to Improvement.
to
New Tork, Dec. 13.—Numerous
substantial recoveries from yester
day's extreme depression were regis
tered at today's stock market open
ing, although here and there evidence
of further liquidation. Bethlehem
steel added 14 points to yesterday's
loss of 27, but this wus the most
striking exception to the general im
provement.
f'V
"a Af' at vy^
si'--
HASTY REJECTION IS NOT WANTED
GENERAL NIVEUE
REPLACESJOffRE
Appointment Received with
Great Enthusiasm by the
Press and Public.
Paris, Dec. 18.—The new cabinet
arouses but moderate enthusiasm in
the press- The morning papers point
out that seven ministers and two un
der secretaries belong to the preced
ing administration so that the change
is not so radical as might be expected.
At the same time the appearance of
M. ClaveiUe and W. Loucheur as
technical experts is welcome.
The most popular features of the
reorganization are the appointments
of General Hubert Lyautey as minis
ter of war and General Nlvelle as suc
cessor to General Joffre as command
er In chief of the western front. All
the newspapers print photographs of
Nlvelle under the title of "on* of
the war's revelations."
Pittsburgh Factories
May Shut Down to Let
Railroads Clear Tracks
Pittsburg, Dec. 13.—Manufacturing
interests in this district were today
considering the advisability of shut
ting down their plants on December
23, one object being to enable the rail
roads to clear tracks east and west of
the vast quantities of freight dally be
ing offered.
In spite of heroic measures adopt
ed by the railroads, freight continues
to pile up at terminals. All freight
depots in Pittsburg are now being
operated at night to allow consignees
to remove freight and yesterday the
Pittsburg, Cincinnati, Chicago A St.
Louis railroad placed an embargo up
on all freight except such as shall
originate on and is destined to points
along its own tracks. This order com
pels the railroad to refuse to deliver
to or accept from any connecting line
any kind of freight except perishable
goods.
BOYS' PLATTSBURG CAMP
Establishment of Juvenile Military
Training Camp Proposed by
Education.
Chicago,
Dec. 13.—Establishment
venlle Plattsburg training
of a juve
wh
camp, where boys of the middle west,
between the ages of It and 18, may
he given a condensed West Point
course, will be discussion at a meet
ing of educational industrial profes
sional and commercial leaders here
on Saturday, It was announced today.
,'
o* r.Z
ENTENTE JOINT
COME FOR WEEKS
Attitude on Peace Proposal
May not be Known Till
First of the Year.
London, Dec. 13.—The Indications
are that the various governments of
the entente allies do not intend to act
hastily in making joint response to
the peace proposals of the central
powers, It was pointed out in well in
formed quarters today that while each
one of the allied governments might
Indicate its general attitude, con
sultation between the allies under the
treaty binding them to such action,
probably would require two or three
weeks, making it unlikely that the
joint reply of all the allies will be
available before the first of the year.
One of the factors, which accord
ing to an opinion expressed here,
militates against acceptance of the
proposal, is that the opening of
negotiations would necessarily be fol
lowed by an armiBtice.
THREE WfKlALS
Hettinger County Commis
sioners Put Out of Office
by Governor.
Bismarck, N. D„ Dec. 13.—The long
light which has split Hettinger coun
ty wide open culminated today in the
removal of three members of the
county board—William Colgrove, Paul
F. Schmidt, and John A. Rieger by
Governor Hanna.
In ordering the removal of these
officials, the governor states he finds
that they violated the statutes In fail
ing to advertise for bids on bridge
work, in paying the county surveyor a
greater sum than he was entitled to,
in paying themselves salaries for time
not spent in the interests of the coun
ty, in allowing themselves Ave dollars
the day for looking after poor when
the statute entitles them to only two
dollars, and in refusing, at the re
quest of the state's attorney, to create
for him a contingent fund, which duty
the governor holds is mandatory
when the request is made in the prop
er form by the state's attorney.
Colgrove, chairman of the board,
and Rieger were defeated at the re
cent election and have but two weeks
more to serve, though Colgrove has
instituted contests,proceedings claim
ing fraud on the part of the success
ful opponent.
The governor's decision is a victory
for State's Attorney H- V. Crane,
whose attack on the county board re
sulted from the latter's refusal to vote
Crane the funds demanded for a fight
on the whiskey ring.
Peace with "Murderers" Im
possible, One Paper Says
"Impudent Trick," Dei
clares The Post—Cannot
Enter into Negotiations
on Basis of Chancellor's
Note.
liondon, Dec. IS.—The morning
papers in the editorial views on Ger
many's peace proposals take two main
grounds—that the offer should be re
jected or that It should be met with
a statement of the terms on which
the entente allies are willing tp effect
a peace leaving It to the central pow
ers to accept or reject It.
The Morning Poat argues that the
opening of negotiations would Imply
an armistice In which Germany would
obviously occupy the predominant
position and that the question would
be whether the entente allies were
prepared to accept terms dictated by
Germany. It adds that to grant an
armistice would be to abandon the
hope of ever gaining the power to
force'Germany to submission.
"Germany," says the Morning Poet,
"knows she has reached her senlth
and henceforth must decline. Noth
ing, therefore, will better serve her
purpose'than an armistice."
"Impudent Mok."
The DailyMaUdeacribee the offer
&
JtJ
5" «t
1
-'.'isa#.
ENGLAND EXPECTED TO GIVE LITTLE ATTENTION TO PROPOSALS
Kaiser Does Not
Wish to Strike
In Cold Blood
Emperor's Note to Neutrals
a "Document" of Love of
Peace," Says Germania—
Not Indication of Weak
ness.
Berlin, Dec. 18, Via London, Dee.
IS.—Commenting on the peace pro
posals, Germania, the Catholic or
gan, expresses especial pleasure
that the central powers appeal to
the Pope as well as to other neu
trals. It enthuUnstlcaUy approves
the peace overtures, which It terms
the privilege of the stronger In war
and a performance of the holiest
of duties to honanlty and Chris
tian morality.
The newspaper declares that the
emperor's note to Germany's op
ponents Is a document of the love
of peace than which none could be
greater, falter and go to further
lengths and widish proves that Ger
many, despite Its enormous mili
tary success, does not wish to strike
In cold blood .to destroy Its enemies,
but in consonance with its respon
sibility to God and the world of
fers them die hand of peace. Only
a fool, It declares, will see In the
offer an lndlcatttm of weakness.
TORPEDO BOAT
LOST AT SEA
CREWDROWNEO
Grilse, Canadian Boat, Lost
with all Aboard, Offi
cials Believe.
Ottawa, Ont., Ce£ tS.—T*« Canadi
an torpedo. be&t. Cjftflse, ,commanded
by Lieutenant' "ft- Wingate, has been
lost at sea with all hands, it is feared.
This announcement was made today
by the minister of naval service.
Halifax, N. S., Dec. 13.—The Grilse,
which last night sent out wireless calls
for help was in a sinking condition off
Little Hope today, according to re
ports from nearby radio stations. Al
though several vessels sent word they
would hasten to the Grlsle'g assist
ance, there was no report that any of
them had arrived on the scene. No
details of the Grisle's trouble have
been received here.
"SHOOT TO KILL"
SAYS MINNEAPOLIS
CHIEF OF POLICE
Minneapolis, Dec. 13.—In an effort
to curb a wave of crime, Chief of
Police Martinson today ordered all
policemen to "shoot to kill."
Beginning tonight three-fourths of
the uniformed police department will
be on duty, together with every city
detective, and will be scattered
throughout the city in readiness to
carry out the orders "to shoot."
GREEK REGULAR TROOPS
ARE FIGHTING FRENCH
Berlin, via wifeless) Dec.
13.—-Fighting is in progress
between Greek regular
troops and the French, the
Overseas News Agency re
ports.
London Press Bitterly Scores Germany and
Says Proposal Should Be Rejected Berlin
Welcomes Peace Move Now up to Entente
of the central powers as "an impudent
old peace trick which is becoming
as hackneyed as the conjuring of rab
bits out of a hat."
It adds that Dr. von Bethmann
Hollweg is no more entitled to the
courtesy of a reply than if he were
an armed burglar in a private house.
"The allies will not be caught in
this white-whiskered device," the
Dally Mall add*.
Mere Scrap of Paper.
"They know that no peace with a
nation of- tigers and murderers and
statesmen who regard all treaties as
scraps of paper could be worth the
paper and ink. So long as Germany
If not completely and decisively beat
en no' peace with her can be more
than a truce which she would violate
the first moment it served her pur
pose. It would not save us money or
effort, for we should still have to
spend every available penny In pre
paration for Germany's next treach
erous blow. It Is better and cheaper
far to aght on."
The Daily News, while urging, the
people not to pay too much attention
to "the chancellor's arrogant Invita
tion," says the entente allies most not
Cannot Enter Into Agreement.
"It Is true that the allies cannot
enter into peace negotiation on the
basis jot Dr. von Bethmann-Hollweg'a
offer," nys the Dally News, "but they
(Continued on Page 4A
V*"
"V
PEACE TERMS OF
GERMANY ARE NOT
Bethmann-Hollweg does not
Announce Them to
Reichstag.
Berlin, Dec. 12, (via landon, Dec.
IS—Although Chancellor von Beth
mann-Hollweg did not disclose the
definite proposals on which Germany
and her allies are prepared to make
peace in his speech before' the Reichs
tag, such proposals are ready and will
be communicated to the entent pow
ers if the Chancellor's offer should
fall upon responsive ears. In the cor
ridors of the Reichstag where, after
the historic 20-minute session, the
members gathered in keen discussion
of the chancellor's speech, the gener
al opinion expressed was that the
situation would be advantageous to
Germany whether or not the Chancel
lor's offer was accepted by the En
tente.
"Woe to Conquered."
Some of the opponents of the chan
cellor are opposed to any move in the
direction of peace except on the basis
*'woe- to -the conquered."' Mast'n^em
bers- of the Rgichstag, however, ex
press the opinion that the emperor's
deoislon was wise and timely, and
showed pleasure at the formal step
taken toward ending the war.
MANY HFlT BY
FLOUR MILL COMPANY
Washburn-Crosby Company Unable
to Get Cars to Load Flour—Mills
at Half Capacity.
Minneapolis, Dec. 13.—The Minne
apolis Milling Industry was operating
at about one-half capacity today
with no assurance of improvement in
the car shortage situation.
The Washburn-Crosby company let
out a battalion of employes today
and closed one large mill, represent
ing about one-quarter of the total
capacity of the Minneapolis plants,
on account of inability to get cars to
load out flour.
Other companies were compelled
to close plants earlier In the week
because they could not get cars, have
not been able to resume grinding in
the closed mills.
W. D. Schermerhorn is
Offered Presidency
of Dakota Wesleyan
Mitchell, S. D., Dec. 13.—Dr. W. I
.Schermerhorn, member of the
faculty of Northwestern university's
divinity school, has been offered the
presidency of Dakota Wesleyan uni
versity, it was announced by the lat
ter's trustees today. It is not known
whether he will accept. More than
fifty candidates were considered for
the presidency alnce the resignation
last June of Dr. William Grant Sea-
Tageblatt Pleased over Ac
tion, but, with Other Ger
mans, is Ready to Bear
the Continued Sacrifices
Bravely if Proposal is Re
jected Other Papers Pes
simistic.
commit the fatal blunder of refusing peace overtures or dlstalh as a sign of charging full rates for all messages
to enter into .negotiations because the weakness and suffering, the people sent by the Baltimore and Ohio rail
Teutons are evidently playing an
astute diplomatic game.
(Continued onr
Berlin, Dec. 12, (via London), Dec.
13.—Commenting on Chancellor von New York, Dec. 13.—Suit to com
Bethmann-Hollweg's 'speech In the P*' the Western Union Telegraph
Reichstag, DV. Theodor Wolff, editor: company to carry out the terms of a
of the Tageblatt says: contract entered into in 1887 was bt
"We greet the step of the Teutonic
Allied governments and shall believe R^frond
It correct and desirable, even though The lilr^d^mnanv allured th»t
mentsUof enemyPBtmtM ar«s%ot°ready
to commerce commission this year pro
Sin!!!?? which has
FROM BERLIN BEFORE DECIDING ON
ACTION MAY NOT SENDPROPOSAL
German Losses
In Men Nearly
Four Million
London, Dee. IS.—The total Ger
man casualties, excluding those In
the naval and colonial services, re
ported in the German official list
for November, says a British offi
cial statement issued today, are
166,176 officers and men. making
the total German losses In killed,
wounded and missing since the war
broke out 3,921,860.
FRENCH PRESS
ISDfRISIVE
Peace Offer an Admission of
Weakness, is Tone of
Comment.
Paris, Dec. 13.—The offer of peace
of Chancellor von Bethmann-Hollweg
is received with a chorus of derision
in the French press. The newspapers
are unanimous that it is an admission
that the situation Is getting crit.ca. in
Germany and that the chancellor
wants a way out before it is too late
His move is considered to have the
additional advantage that, in the
event of its failing, it will enable him
to throw the blame for the continua
tion of the war on the allies, which
he hopes will have a moral effect on
.Germany and the neutral nations.
Baltimore-Ohio Seeks
Redress from Western
Union Under old Pact
becaus®
ot a
Viding
S E a el a a a a a
years.
wajr
"If the* opposing governments," Dr. ance with the lawful rates of the rail
Wolff continues, 'should decline the road," the Western Union has been
will once more ask themselves the road. This, It is alleged, is in viola
question whether they are not being
driven senselessly £nd without urgent
need to new sacrifices, to renewed
massacres. The German people If
their opponents' answer is negative,
will see clearly that ft Is their duty to
4.)
"t
a
GERMAN DIPLOMATS HOPEFUL OF
St)CCESS MAIWBEUEVE 111 SHOULD
AWAIT TERMS BEFORE STEPPING IN
White House Anxious, However, For Basis on Which
Mediation Can be Undertaken—Expect Word
From Charge Grew Today.
Washington, Dec. 13.—President Wilson's course of action In con
nection with Germany's peace proposals remains undecided today,
while he awaited the official pro offer which the central powers have
aaked the United States to transmit to their enemies. The impression
grew that while the president's first consideration was to safeguard
Ills usefulness as a peace maker by omitting any comment which
might possibly be coupled with a rejection by the Entente powers,
there was a disposition to And some way, however, delicate and infor
mal, to Intimate the sincere wish of the United States that some basis
for discussion at least might be readied.
Many officials felt that an indication of the temper of the Entente
governments should be available before the influence of the United
states was thrown Into the balance-
BERXSTORFF RECEIVES XO FURTHER WORD.
The Germany embassy had no further advices on the terms of the
Central governments, but it was admitted freely that terms purpose
ly have been omitted from the chancellor's speech and the note because
the sole purpose was to propose a conference on terms and carefully
avoid advancing any which might be made the basis of a refusal.
The Germanic diplomats in this country, reflecting the views of
their governments, believe the answer of the. Entente allied will be an
inquiry as to the basis on which ftermany proposes peace and with
that much as a foundation, they Soe the warring nations well on tbt
way to a. conference from wiitct»«h«y
wii^xooNFiatswyErH coaxed HOUSE.
The president cancelled all his outside engagements today, in
cluding one to preside over the annual meeting of the American Red
Cross and remain in the White House, where he conferred with Colonel
E. M. House, his friend and adviser, who made one trip to Europe to
sound out peace sentiment several months ago. Colonel House may go
again If the precedent makes a move to accompany Germany's pro
posals with suggestions of any character.
Washington—Germany's note proposing peace negotiations to
enemy |towers was expected to reach here today in official textural
form from Chance Grew, at Berlin, for transmission to each of the en
tente belligerents to whom It is addressed.
Extreme delicacy of the situation, it is pointed out, would pre
vent the slightest publicity being given to any possible action by this
government other than perfunctory transmission of the note through
the American ambassador in each of the countries addressed.
It 16 regarded here as almost certain, however, iliat the president
will take some steps jto ascertain the entente allies' attitude toward
the pence movement.
ruling of the interstate
that "any exchange of service
companies .' hould be in accord-
tion of the agreement of 1887, which
provided that for 60 years the rail
road would transport free of charge
all-employes of the Western Union
when traveling on company buslneee
and all poles and other materials and
supplies to an amount not exceeding
tio.maytar.
VILLA PLANNED
TO RAID U. S.
BORDffiTOWNS
Distribute Men Along Bor
der to Loot and Burn Prop
erty, Report Says.
El Paso, Tex.. Dec. 13.—Francisco
Villa announced in Chihuahua City
that he intended to divide his men
into groups of 25 each and distribute
them along the American border and
in the interior of the United States
to loot and burn property under his
instruction. This information is con
tained in a letter received from a
prominent Chihuahua City business
man. and forwarded to Washington
today.
Greater Sacrifices
and Stronger Union to
Succeed, Says Carson
London, Dec. 13.—Sir Edward Car
son the new first.lord of the admiralty
In a letter resigning the chairman
ship of the Unionist party war com
mittee because of his acceptance of
a ministerial post, writes:
"The hour is a critical one for the
nation and empire and. if we are to
bring the war to a successful and
honorable conclusion we must -have
the determined support of every man
who loves his country. Still greater
sacrifices must be made by all classes
and the example set by our enemies
in national organization can only bo
successful by similar action on"our
part."
JUSTIFIED IN SINKING1
LANSO, GERMANY SAYS
Was Not American Vessel, Bat
longed to Norway, Reply Says
Had OanOfaband Aboacd.
Washington, Dec. lt.-^wntBya
reply to the Aiperlcan Inquiry on the
sinking of the American slsainei
Lanao by a Gertnan submarine off
Cape Vincent, October 18, recaivad at
the state department ^contends
sinking was justlfled becausa the
sel carried contraband and was
in tact ah American ship. Ml
been transferred to Xorweglaa
AM V~
I
Sfl
vX
l.e
Hi
•ft1iflip
10
•t
fort
