I
VOLUME XXXVII.
1
1
1
1
SOLONS BUSY OYER
SPEAKERSHIPFIGHT
PLENTY OF CANDIDATES ARE
ANXIOUS TO PRESIDE IN
HOUSE.
EIGHTH DISTRICT REFUSES
TO INDORSE ANY MEMBER
FOR JOB.
it all the members of the incoming
.legislature who believe they^are the only
ones who can successfully preside over
the lower house during the next three or
four months, there promises to be a lively
fight when the law-makers get together
at the state capital, three weeks hence.
George Akerson, in the Minneapolis
Tribune, says that every congressional
district has at least one candidate, and
some of them more. In some cases
these "favorite sons" have lined up the
support of their respective delegations.
In other cases the district delegations
have refused to take any action.
Eighth District Free.
At a meeting of the Eighth Congres
sional delegation, at Duluth Saturday
night, no action was taken, it being de
cided to hold off until further develop
ments are shown. The delegates ad
journed to meet in St. Paul the day before
the session opens. Hennepm county
solons are also awaiting to see how the
land lays later in the game. So far the
Minneapolis men have refused to sign
up for any particular candidate.
Discussing the situation up to the
present time, the Tribune article says:
Candidates Gather.
^Nearly all of the candidates for
speaker gathered in St. Paul last week
with the express intention of doing some
eliminating. Plans for calling a caucus
of House members were discussed. After
two days of conferring the candidates
packed their grips and went to their re
spective bailiwicks, convinced that the
fight would not be settled until the vote
was taken on the floor of the House.
Every one of the candidates who
gathered in St. Paul expressed himself as
favoring elimination of some other than
himself. It was a case of 'Let the other
fellow do it.'
"When the Third Minnesota arrived
from the Mexican border it brought with
itV^ardidat^ for speaker in the person of
Lieutenant Colonel Albert F. Pratt,
member oi the legislature lrooi Anoka.
Colonel Pratt has been mentioned as
speakership possibility, but so far has
not indicated his own desires. He says
that he will give his attention to the
matter when the Third has been mustered
out.
League Plans an Enigma.
"The part that the Minnesota Anti
Saloon league will play in the speakership
fight is furnishing an enigma that some
of the out-and-out dry candidates are
trWng hard to solve. George B. Safford,
superintendent, says that there are
/'several fMends of the diy cause' among
the list of candidates, anyone of whom
would be satisfactory. Some of the
candidates want the 'wet and dry' issue
left out of the speakership fight.
"It has been intimated, however, that
Ralph J. Parker and Charles H. Warn
er of Aitkin, both of whom voted for
the county option bill two years ago,
are not in line for support from the Anti
Saloon League. Questioned concerning
these two candidates, Mr. Safford has
simply said:
Is Supporting No One.
'Well, the Anti-Saloon league is not
supporting any particular candidate as
yet.'
"Oscar Swenson of Nicollet county was
indorsed by members of the Third con
gressional district at a meeting held
last week at the Merchants' hotel.
"Claude Southwick, of Wells, one ol
the most popular members of the House
in two previous sessions, spent some
time in the Twin Cities last week. He
has been assured of considerable support
in various sections of the state.
"Theodore Christianson of Dawson, an
out and out dry, was in Minneapolis all
lqst week. Mr. Christianson says that
«p question of 'wet and dry' will con
tinue to be an issue until prohibition has
been put into effect in Minneapolis.
Nolan Finds Support.
"W. I. Nolan of Minneapolis, who
has made several trips out into the state,
has found support among many members
of the 1913 session. Mr. Nolan was the
floor leader for the Rines forces during
that session.
C. H. Warner of Aitkin, credited with
considerable support in northern Minne
sota, wants the 'wet and dry' issue to be
eliminated. He recently issued a state
ment calling upon certain state officials
to keep 'hands off' in the speakership
Girling in Receptive Mood.
"Thomas H. Girling of Robbinsdale,
.while not an active candidate for speaker
is #ne of those classed receptive. Mr.
Girling wants the fight decided on
broader issues than 'wet and dry.'
"John Hompe of Ottertail county, one
of the oldest members of the House in
point of years, indorsed by the majority
of the Ninth district delegation, is a
strong dry and makes that an issue.
"Fred Bessette of St. Louis county
and George H. Moeller of St. Paul are
both classed as receptive candidates."
SNEAK THIEF BREAKS
INTO REX POOL HALL
he Rex pool hall, North Minnesota
,/reet, was entered by a burglar or
probably more likely, a sneak uhief
Tuesday night. A quantity of cigars
and a slot machine, said by the proprie
tors to contain about $10 in cash, were
taken The thief gained entrance by
climbing through a window in the base
ment, and cutting a hole in the door
leading to the store. It is said that a
stranger who gave his name as C. W.
Venman, and who had been hanging
around the place for a couple of days,
has failed to show up since. It is also
reported that the same stranger had been
trying to sell some clothing which was
in a grip recently stolen from the waiting
room at one of the railway stations.
None of the merchants to whom the
goods were offered bought, and none
knew of the theft, hence his actions were
not reported to the police.
The grip was found at a boarding
house by Deputy Sheriff Jahnke later,
where it had been left by the thief, who
had evidently stolen it at the depot as
he came off of a late night train.
The fact that a similar petty robbery
was committed at St. Peter, and another
at Mankato, at intervals of only a few
days, leads the officers to believe the
thief is traveling thru the country,
eking out an existence by pulling off
small jobs\of this kind.
The meeting of the Brown County
Bar Association wh'ch was to have been
held at the courthouse Monday even
ing, did not materialize, a quorum not
being present.
DISTRICT COURT
GRIND HAS BEGUN
DISPOSITION OF CASES MADE
IN PRELIMINARY CALL OF
CALENDAR.
SETTLEMENT OF MANY SUITS
SEEMS LIKELY TO CUT
TERM.
From present indications it would
hardly seem that the December term
of Court whieh was opened Monday
with Judge I. M. Olsen presiding, will
last as long as the formidable array of
cases on the civil calendar would indi
cate. Quite a number of the cases were
settled, in others settlement was re
ported pending and a large number
of the court cases will be tried by the
court during vacation.
Grand Jury Reports
The grand jury reported Monday
morning at 11 o'clock and they were all
rerorted present except Henry Bpn
dixen of SprmgrWd a^-d ^rank Crum
lett. The former was excused by the
Court and the latter pat in hi& appear
pearance during the course of the after
noon. Alfred Schlumberger is acting
as Deputy Clerk of Court, John Schape
kahm as bahff of the grand jury, and
Jos. Weisenborn and Anton T. Wiesner
are in duty as bailiffs of the petit jury.
Joseph M. Arbes was appointed fore
man of the grand jury by the Court
and P. J. Soukup was by them selected
as clerk.
Monday evening the grand jury re
turned indictments against Art Hender
son, alias James Murphy, and James
Burnes, each two counts, one for
grand larceny and the other for burg
lary also indictments against Clifford
Henry and Robert Loftus, charged with
the same ofienses. The four men were
arraigned on the opening of court yester
day morning and were given until this
morning to ,make their pleas. The
court appointed Albert D. Flor attorney
for Henry and Loftus.
Tuesday noon indictments were re
turned against Thomas Kennedy, alias
Jack Kallen, Robert Campbell, and
William Smith, alias John Long, and
Anton Manderfeld. The two former
are charged by the grand jury with
grand larceny and burglary. Mander
feld is accused ol grand larceny in the
first degree.
The first civil case for the term was
called yesterday morning, and is now
under way before a jury. It is one in
which Carl J. Holman, a physician of
Sleepy Eye, is suing Thomas Peterson
for professional services in having per
formed a surgical operation upon Peter
son's son. The physician claims $500.
Four petit jurors were excused yester
day for various reasons, most of them
because of illness. A new panel was
drawn yesterday afternoon.
In the case oi Holman vs. Thomas
Peterson the Court permitted the plain
tiff to amend his complaint. In the
case Andrew Stemmetz against Fischer
& Youngman the Court overruled the
plamtiff's demurrer. In the Leo Drusch
will case the Court ordered that the
question of the mental capacity of the
testator and the question of undue in
fluence be submitted to the jury. In the
case of Abn^r M. Parker and Edith A.
Parker vs. Henry Neob et al, the motion
made by defendants to have the case
sent to Becker Coanty was denied by
the Court and the same will be tried here
At the preliminary call of the civil
calendar the following disposition was
made:
Jury Trial
State of Minnesota vs. Alex Deinken.
Albert A. Paffrath vs. Herman F.
Wenzel.
David Adler & Sons Clothing Co. vs
Gehrke & Evans.
The Commonwealth Shoe & Leather
Co. vs. Gehrke & Evans.
Carl J. Holman vs. Thomas Peterson.
Fred Mielke vs. Charles Deutsch
mann.
Casey Land Company vs. H. C.
Schult7.
Anna Petersun vs. The Mystic Work
ers of the World.
George Kraus, Jr vs. Joseph Kraus.
Irwin Zieske, on behalf of Margaret
Zieske, Minor, vs. Peter Hansen.
Edward Blomeke vs William Prahl.
Edward Wolf vs. Mike Ranweiler and
Kansas Casualty & Surety Co.
Irwin Zieske vs. Peter Hansen.
Nick L. Jutz vs. Albert Guth.
(Continued on last page.)
MMM
FLOOD CONFERENCE
HERE IN JANUARY
SEVERAL HUNDRED DELEGATES
WILL DEMAND RELIEF FROM
CONGRESS
MEETING IS TO IMMEDIATELY
PRECEDE CONVENTION AT
ST. PAUL
There is to be a big flood convention
in New Ulm, early in January, the date
of which will probably be cither on the
3rd or -1th of thai month, a day or tv.ro
preceding the All-Minnesota Develop
ment Association's conference, which is
to be held in St. Paul January 5 and 6.
The exact date will be set by the secre
tary of the Tri-State Flood Association
within a few days.
This wae agreed upon at the hearing
held at Ortonville last Saturday. New
Ulm was chosen as the place tor the con
ferrnco for the reason that it i« the most
centra] point between the mouth and
the headwaters of the Minnesota river,
and there are hundreds of farmers and
business men all up ond down the stream
who are vitally interested in the project
To Adopt Resolutions.
It is planned to pass levolutions de
manding that the Congressmen from the
districts affected by the floods the
Minnesota and Red River valleys do
their upmost to have suitable bills passed
in congress that will bring about the
necessary relief Thpre will probably be
several hundred delegates to the con
ference hore. All solid, hardheaded
farmers, with their mind* firmly set on
something being done to relieve them,
and that done without further delay.
The prime object calling the Tri
State Flood Association conference here
to immediately orecede the meeting of
the All-Minnesota Development Asso
ciation is two fold First, many of the
leaders of the former body are delegates
to the St. Paul meeting and will go from
here to the statp capital, loaded for bear,
Second, it proposed that a set of delegates
be appointed at the latter gathering who
will go to Washington to urge the
passage ol necessary bills and also to
secure the co operation cf the govern
ment officials in pushing the project of
controlling the head waters of the Min
nesota and Red rivers for the piotectlon
ox propfty in those tw,p_vfiieys
Interest is Spreading-.
Interest in the flood control is spread
ing aU up and down the Minnesota and
Red River alleys. Farmer* who have
seen their cops ruined yea" aftrr year,
and business men who have lost thous
ands and thousands of dollais in trade,
caused by the floods are joined hand in
hand to secure an end to the evil, and to
the injury that has been done them.
John Frohrip, a farmer of Eden town
ship, who is in New Ulm attending the
December term of the district court,
told yesterday, of the damage that
has come home to him and his family,
both in the Minnesota and Red River
valleys. Not only hac he seen his own
crops laid waste, bu*" a membpr oi his
family, who owns a rich farm in the Red
River valloy, los all of his crops, not
having enough to wmtpr his stock or feed
his family and was obliged to go with his
pons to the harvest fields of North
Dakota to work thru the harvest and
com husking season? to earn enough
to keep his family thru t^e winter.
"If we happen to have a dry season
next year, we will be all nght," said Mr.
Frohrip, 'but if not it will be the same
old story over again. These two valleys
are the richest in the world, if we are
but given the protection that are
entitled to and which we will eventually
have."
Mayor Deeply Interested.
Mayor I.. A. Pritsche, who is deeply
interested in the matter, and who is de
voting his own time and mcrey to the
cause, says the present movement was
started by his father, Fred Fritsche, Sr.,
of Lafayette township, who has lost
thousands of dollars by the floods, and
that his work of all those years is just
bearing fruit.
SEEK QUIET NEW YEAR'S EVE.
Eighty Protestant clergymen of Minne
apolis, over their own signatures, have
issued an appeal to the people of that
city to curb their appetites for eating
and drinking on New Years' Eve. The
appeal is headed: "A Proclamation to
the Christian People of Minneapolis."
Pastors are urged in the proclamation
to make their watch night services so
interesting that they will command a
larger attendance and keep the people
from going to the down-town cafes and
hotels.
The action was taken at a meeting of
the Ministerial Association, after Rev.
James E. Freeman, rector of St. Mark's
Episcopal Church, had urged the mem
ber to do so.
BURNSTCWN WANTS ITS
HIGHWAYS GRAVELED
Burnstown residents have started a
move to have the roads of that township
graveled, says the Springfield Free Press.
Petitions are being circulated and funds
solicited by Supervisor George Potzke of
Burnstown and an effort is being made to
gravel four miles of road. He has suc
ceeded in securing $400 the township is
willing to appropriate an equal amount,
providing the county will contribute a
like sum.
Supervisor Lorenz Renner is circulating
a similar petition for graveling a road in
another part of the township.
The methods pursued in that town
ship for securing better roads apparently
appeal to the farmers and they are quite
enthusiastic in the proposition.
», *fla*,,«^ A *W* fenJU^aAStL kig i"*- itfi ^i'^W^feSaSl $bM$!',
NEW ULM, BROWN COUNTY, MINNESOTA, WEDNESDAY, DEC. 13, 1916.
SHORT SESSION IS
HELD BY COUNCIL
CITY TOOL HOUSE CONTRACT
CAUSE OF DISCUSSION BY
ALDERMEN.
MAYOR FRITSCHE REPORTS ON
DRAINAGE CONGRESS AT
FARGO.
At its regular meeting the City Council
transacted quite a lot of business in a
comparatively short session. In an
hour and a half the city dads heard the
monthly reports of the heads of the
various departments, passed the regular
bills and discussed numerous matters of
interest to the affairs of the city.
Building Causes Comment.
The report of the committee on streets
was relative to the erection of a buidling
in which to house the road making
machinery belonging to the city. Its
presentation, before being placed on file,
called for another fire of words between
the members, as has been the case on
several previous occasions. The build
ing had cost considerable more money
than some of the aldermen had expected
it would, when its construction WLS
authorized last summer, which hss
caused more or less discussion at the
meetings since its actual cost was re
vealed. Not that there was any secret in
the matter, but the council referred the
construction of the building to the street
committee, with power to act. While
the building cost, when completed,
$1,872, some of the members, it appears,
believed that a cheap shed, to cost some
where between $250 to $300 was to be
built.
Economy in Good Building.
The committee, however, considered
it economy to have a building that would
be permanent and serviceable. It award
ed a contract to the lowest bidder and
the building constructed. Alderman L.
B. Krook said he would not oDpose pay
ment for the building, but thought the
council, in the future should be more
careful. It was pretty generally under
stood among the members that the build
ing is a good one, and the long run
will be a saving to the city.
The New Ulm Grocery Company was
granted a license to sell cigarettes at
wbolesa1© and a, hnHdir^ prmn't was
^rs^£&, Yogetpho! & Son» ttt-eo-m^ruet
a metal covered office building on North
Broadway.
Chief of Police John Herzog's monthly
report, also that of Night Policeman
John Girg, was read by the city clerk.
Explains Fargo Conference.
Mayor L. A. Fritsche told the members
of the council of his recent conference of
the Tri-State Flood protection Asso
ciation, and of its accomplishments. The
states of North and South Dakota were
represented by their governors, and
Minnesota by Attorney Lyndon A.
Smith. A committee consisting of the
attorney general of each state, together
with three laymen, is to prepare proper
bills to be presented to the three state
legislatures. The need of the associa
tion is money to carry out its work and
at the close of the conference representa
tives of thirty cities pleged $100 each
to create a fund for that purpose. At
the request of Mayor Fritsche the
council appropriated $100 to the fund.
At the request of the New Ulm Fire
Department, Jacob Engel, who has
served in the department for five years,
was granted an honorable discharge.
Mr. Engel has left New Ulm and is now
a resident of Minneapolis. His depart
ture from the city is his reason for
leaving the department.
Final Waterworks Estimate
The final estimate on the waterworks
contract on North State and North
Front streets, of $1,593.85 was allowed,
the contractor, the Healey Plumbing
& Heating Company of St. Paul having
completed its work. The contract was
for $6,089.10, and there were extras to
to the amount of $379.92. The city
engineer and water works superinten
dent reported that the work had been
done in a very satisfactory manner, and
that the extras were for necessaries and
charges at reasonable rates.
H. O. Schleuder was given permission
to erect an electric sign front of his
jewelry store on North Minnesota street.
The finance committee was instructed
to renew the fire insurance on the City's
property, the policies of which expire
next Monday. The committee was
instructed to use its discretion in re
gard to insuring the new tool house,
with its contents. The building and
the machinery stored there is valued
at $5,000, but the building is so nearly
fire-proof that the advisability of pay
ing out good money for protection was
questioned. It was suggested by some
that tornado insurance might be a better
proposition.
Will Interview For Armory Board
Mayor Fritsche read a letter to the
council from Adjutant General Wood
relative to provision being made for the
maintainance of the Armory. The
State contributes an amount equal to
that appropriated by the city, but will
not forward the money until the city
has made its appropriation, which is
expected to be $250. It was stated at
the meeting that the Armory was rented
frequently to private enterprises at a
small rental, from which large sums
were realized, in which case it did not
seem fair to the aldermen. Mayor
Fritsche, President Fred Behnke of the
council, and acting City Attorney
Erickson, were appointed as a committee
to interview the Armory Board relative
to the city's status in the matter before
an appropriation would be made. The
committee will report at the next meet
ing of the council.
Superintendent A. J. Mueller was
authorized to accept the bid of a manu
facturer for repairs to the water works
pump, at $317.50.
Fritz Steckert appeared before the
council with a statement that as his
water tax had now reached the amount
equal to the minimum of $6, he thought
the rate should be reduced .during the
winter months, during which time the
consumption would be very slight. When
it was explained to him that such action
could not be legally taken he declared
that he would have a first class skating
rink at his home, and invited the alder
men to come down and try it.
Many Residences Wired.
Since November 15 twenty residences
have been wired for electric service, and
many more homes are connected with
the water mains, according to a report
submitted to the council by Superinten
dent A. J. Mueller.
The assessments to be levied against
property owners on North State and
North Front streets were referred to the
Board of Public Works.
There were 707 1-2 hours of hand and
232 hours of team labor expended on the
public streets during the month of
November, the street commissioner re
ported.
SCHOOL HEADS TO
HOLD BIG MEETING
PROGRAM NEARLY COMPLETED
FOR ANNUAL CONFERENCE
AT UNIVERSITY
PROMINENT EDUCATORS TO BE
PRESENT AT STATE-WIDE
GATHERING
Prof. H. C. Hess returned Saturday
evening from Minneapolis, where the
committee is preparing a program for
the meeting of the heads of the various
schools of the state which will be held at
the University of Minnesota, next
spring.
The conference, which is held during
the week of Good Friday each year,
attracts practically all of the educators
fo the state. This year the gathering
will come early in April.
Program Prepared.
According to the program as prepared,
Tuesday and Wednesday of that week
will be devoted to the superintendents'
,a»i principals* short course, which con
sists of a~ series of conferences in the
study of English, commerical subjects,
mathematics and history.
Thursday, Friday and Saturday oc
curs the regular annual meeting of the
Department of Superintendence. This
is attended by all school superintendents,
high school principals, county superin
tendents, etc.
The program for the latter is as
follows: First: "More Time for
School Work How to be Secured, a—
Special Summer Term, b—Longer
School Day. c—Longer School Year.
Second: Junior High School, its
Possibilities and Limitations.
Third: The Ju ior College.
Junior College Is New
The latter subject is just beginning
to attract the attention of educators
throughout the country. The Junior
College means two years of college
work to be done by the students at their
home school after finishing their high
school course. By this means the
student when he leaves for college,
is ready to take up regular junior class
work in the college to which he goes.
The committee will hold another
meeting on Saturday, January 6, when
the program for the short course will
be completed.
Prof. Hess is president of the Depart
ment of Superintendence.
NICOLLET COUNTY TO
RAISE SUGAR BEETS
Nicollet county farmers, especially in
the neighborhood of St. Peter, will
engage extensively next year, in the
raising of sugar beets, according to the
papers of that city. The Chaska sugar
beet factory has contracted with a num
ber of farmers for their products, and
arrangements are being made with others
to the same effect.
It is said that many leading agri
culturists of Minnesota claim that sugar
beets may be raised to profitable ad
vantage in the southern part of this state,
and so far the industry has been quite
successful. It is believed that within
the next few years more will be raised
and for several seasons there has been a
gradual increase in the production.
One reason why beet raising is popular
is that they are very easy to handle.
All the farmer has to do is to furnish the
land, the money for the seed, and a house
for the people who take care of them to
live in. The company to whom the
beats are sold, and manufacture them in
to sugar, send out colonies of Russians
and Roumanians to do the work, the
number depending on how many acres
the farmer has contracted to supply.
These laborers remain at the farm during
the entire beet season, doing practically
all of the work.
The average weight of beets raised to
the acre is about twenty tons. With the
beets bringing from $6 to $7 a ton, a very
neat profit goes to the farmer.
HE MET HIS WATERLOO.
Pop Meyer of Leavenworth, the
champion 66 player of that vicinity was
down to New Ulm last Friday to pull
off a stunt or two along that line. He
went up against some hard ones and
thinks he covered too much territory.
Ihem New Ulm fellows, he says are
pretty strong players. After all, our
friend Meyer says he had a fine time
visitmg friends.—Sleepy Eye Herald
Dispatch.
A »\,'!
NUMBER50
S. 0. S. CALL FROM
FAIR ASSOCIATION
AGRICULTURAL SOCIETY MUST
HAVE HELP OF CITIZENS
GENERALLY
NEW BUILDING IMPERATIVE
STOCK WILL BE SOLD
FOR FUNDS
Ways and means of improving the
annual fair of the Brown Co. Agricultural
Society were earnestly discussed at the
annual meeting of the Society held at
the Commercial Club rooms Monday
evening. The attendance might have
been better, but what it lacked in num
bers, it made up in enthusiasm.
It was generally conceded that the
fairs to be a success and bring the people
here from miles and miles around, must
be made better and more arttactive
then they have been in the past. This
cannot be done by one man or by a
few men, even tho they work ever so
hard. There must be a general co
operation and working together of our
citizens to bring the desired results and
that is what the meeting Monday even
ing decided to work for. At least one
more exhibit hall will have to be built
so that all the different exhibits that are
offered every year will have a place where
they can be shown off to advantage.
The only exhibit building on the grounds
has become altogether inadeauate and
the Secretary has for several years past
been forced to refuse space to different
exhibitors and the schools have been cut
down to less than one third the space
that they would have liked to use for
their displays.
In the course of the discussion it de
veloped that no stock had been sold for
over twenty years and that a great num
ber of our most successful and influential
business and professional men have no
stock in the association whatsoever and
that as 'a matter of fact they have never
been approached. This being the case
it was decided to increase the number
of stockholders.
As an inducement to sell stock the
board of directois were empowered to
erect an exhibit hall on the Fair Grounds
to cost not more than $5,000 on con
dition however that at least $3,000 worth
o? stock be^ sojd. There ought to^be
little' nifficfilty' doing ibis "because
the investment would be an absolutely
safe one. The property of the Asso
ciation, conservatively estimated, is
worth at least $25,000 and there has been
less than $5,000 worth of stock issued
against it. The assistance of the Com
mercial Club will be enlisted in the
matter. It was even hinted that if the
sale of stock should reach the $5,000
figure that the erection of a new grand
stand would be brought within the range
of possibilities.
Albert Steinhauser, President of the
Junior Pioneers informed the Board of
the action of the Junior Pioneers who
had at their annual meeting deeided to
erect a Pioneer Lodge on the Fair
Grounds as a sort of memorial to the
first settlers. This announcement wrs
enthusiastically received and the Junior
Pioneers were granted permission to
erect such building on the Fair Grounds.
In this connection it was decided if the
lodge were built, to furnish the old
pioneers wich season tickets for the Fair.
Quite a number of other matters were
discussed but no action was taken.
According to the report of the Secretary
the Association is in excellent shape
financially. If the yearly assistance
from the State equals this year the
amount paid out in premiums, then the
Association will have more than $4500
in the Treasury. This is approximately
$1300 more than the financial statement
showed last year.
The receipts with a cash balance on
hand from last year and $300 borrowed
money amounted $5,106.85. They are
made up of the following items:" Ap
propriation from the State $968 and
from the County $500, making a total
of $1468 in appropriations. The total
admission and grand stand receipts
aggregated the sum of $1373.80. The
other receipt items are made up of the
following: Refreshments $345.15 con
cessions $151.00 donations $153.75
advertising in premium list $255.50
privileges and space $70 turkev shoot
$748.75 tree and cigars $11.50 'interest
$54 and bills payable $300.00. There
were expended for general expense the
sum of $170.33, labor $188.58, adver
tising $173.54, supplies $209.21, races
and free acts $1168.75, refreshments
$316.25, premium list expense $131.20,
& ^h.?,ot' $351-86, bills pavable
$632.95, bills receivable $400, premiums
$1112.75 and insurance $124.85, making
a total disbursement of $4980.22. This
leaves on hand a cash balance of $126.63.
The Secretary reported further that
there were 1163 entries at the last fair
and that 7/19 premiums were awarded
In the course of the discussion of the
financial report it developed that the
refreshments stand was no money maker
and it was decided to turn it over to
some local man next year The follow
ing were elected as directors for the
ensuing year: Ferdinand Crone, A.
J. Vogel, Dr. Emil Mueller, J. A Ochs,
William E. Engelben, Henry Schrader.
Dr. P. Graff, Jacob Klossner, Jr., F.
H. Behnke, Fred Behnke. Andrew
Backer, W. A. Pfefferle, Ben Juni, W.
E. Huevelmann and Theo. Thormodson
of Hanska. They will meet shortly to
perfect an organization.
The least that can be said to the
citizens of New Ulm is that the Brown
County Agricultural Society is worthy
of their unstinted support and that it
should be given freely and cheerfully,
Carl Hose has been spending a few
days here with his parents. He is lo
cated at Lemmon, S. D*" 'aM^m^
:A?lif*
4
