THE BARRE DAILY TIME
TRICE, ONE CENT.
BARUE, VERMONT, WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 13, 1910.
VOL. XX NO. 230.
ENTENTE POWERS DO NOT
TAKE KINDLY TO OFFER
MADE BY THEIR ENEMIES
7
Early Indications, Before Official Ac
tion Is Taken, Seem to Be That the
Discussion of Peace Under the Con
ditions Will Not Amount to Much,
But Hasty Rejection Might Be Harm
ful FRENCH AND BRITISH PRESS
TREAT PROFFER WITH SCORN
Conservative Opinion in Great Britain
Believes That a Counter Offer of the
Entente Might Cause the German
People to Take a Different View of
the Situation Government's Attitude
Made Known Thursday
London,. Dec. 13. Although little confidence is shown in London
that any result will come from the peace proposals of the central
powers and the opinion prevails quite generally that the time is not'
opportune even to discuss the terms, there is an under-current of
feeling that something would be gained by making the world ac
quainted definitely with the objects of the belligerents.
The attitude of the British government toward the offer will be
made known in the House of Commons to-morrow. Sufficient time
is provided to permit consultation with Great Britain's allies, and
this statement is awaited with the greatest interest.
If the press, which supports the administration, correctly inter
prets official opinion, little time will be taken up by consideration of
the move of Germany and her allies, although the moderate. opinion
of the country does not favor too hasty rejection of the overtures.
It is believed that the German people, once they are acquainted
with the objects of the entente, might be more inclined toward
peace and that for that reason, if for no other, the terms of the
entente should be made known officially to the central powers.
GERMANY'S DEFINITE
OFFER IS READY
TO BE GIVEN OUT
Its Delivery Depends on Attitude of the
Entente Powers Reichstag Adjourns
and Gives Free Hand to Gov
ernment. Berlin, Doe. 12, via London, Dec. 13.
Although Von Bethmann-Holhveg did not
disclose the definite proposals on which
Germany and her allies are prepared to
make peace in his speech before the
Reichstag, such proposals are ready and
will he communicated to the entente
powers if the chancellor's offer falls upon
y responsive ears. The general opinion ex
pressed is that the situation will be ad
vantageous to Germany whether or not
the offer is accepted.
The indefinite adjournment of the
Reichstag by its own decision leaves the
government free to conduit further nego
tiations and it is regarded as tantamount
to a vote of confidence.
THE GERMAN OFFER
As Submitted to the Governments of the
Hostile Nations.
Berlin, Dec. 13. Following is the text
of fh note addressed by Germany and
her allies to the hostile governments:
"The most terrjfic war ever experienced
in history has been raging for the last
A two years and a half over a large part of
the "world a catastrophe which thous
ands of years of common civilization was
unable to prevent, and which injures the
most precious achievements of humanity.
Our aims arc not to shatter nor annihi
late our adversaries. In spite of our con
fciousness of our military and economic
strength nd our readiness to continue
Hie war (which has been forced upon n)
until the bitter end, if necessary, and at
the same time prompted by the desire to
r.vnid further bloodshed and make an end
to the atrocities of war, the four allied
powers propose to enter forthwith into
peace negotiations.
"The propositions which they bring
forward for such negotiations and which
have for their object guarantee of the
cxi-teme. of the honor and liberty of
rvolntion for their nations are, according
to their firm belief, an appropriate basis
for the establishment of a lasting peace.
"The four allied powers have been
chliged to take np arms to defend jus
tice and the liberty of national evolution.
The glorious deeds of our armies have in
tin way altered their purpose. We al-
way maintained the firm belief that our
- own rights and justified claims in no way
control the rights of these nations.
"The spiritual and material progress
hieh were the pride of Kurope at the
ioginning of the th century are threat
ened with ruin. Germany and her allies.
Austria-Hungary. Bulgaria and Turkey,
gave proof of their unconquerable
si.-ensrth in this t niggle. They gained
gigantic advantages over dcrries su
perior jn number and war material. Out
GERMANY'S LOSSES WERE
166,176 IN NOVEMBER
London, Dec. 13. The total Ger
man casualties, excluding those in
the naval and colonial services re
ported in the German official lists
for November, says the British
statement to-day, were 10(1,176 of
ficers and men, making the total
German losses in killed, wounded
and missing since the outbreak of
the war 3,021,800.
lines stand unshaken against every re
peated attempt made by armies.
"The last attack in the Balkans has
been rapidly and victoriously overcome.
The most recent events have demonstrat
ed that further continuance of the war
will not result in breaking the resistance
of our forces, and the whole situation
with regard to our troops justifies our
expectation of further successes.
"If in spite of this offer of peace and
reconciliation the struggle should go on,
the four allied powers are resolved to
continue to a victorious end, but they
disclaim responsibility for this, before
humanity and history.
"The imperial government, through the
good offices of Your Excellency, ask the
government of (here is inserted the name
of the neutral power addressed in each
Instance) to bring this communication to
the knowledge of the. government of
(here are inserted the names of belliger
ents). FRENCH PRESS
TREATS OFFER
WITH DERISION
Newspapers Are Unanimous in the Ex
pression That It Means Germany
Has Come to a Critical
Situation.
Paris, Dee. 13. The offer cf peace by
Hollweg is received with a chorus of de
rision in the French press. The news
papers are unanimous that it is an ad
mission that the situation is getting crit
ical in Germany and that the chancellor
wants a way out before it is too late.
RUSSIANS CARRY
TEUTON TRENCHES
And Repulsed Counter Attacks with
Great Losses to the Teutons Ru
manians Took Ground But
Soon Lost It.
Peirograd, Iec 13. Russian troops
resterday captured a line of Teuton
trenches on the heights south of Agu
sualia in the region of the Trotus vslley
of Rumania, according to the official
statement to-day. Teuton counter at
tacks were repulsed with great losses.
Rumanian forces, the statement says,
took the offensive yesterday south of the
Mizil Buscu highroaj and captured a row
of villages but on being counter attacked
were forced la retire.
7,000 MORE RUMANIANS
ARE TAKEN PRISONERS
Fighting is continuing on the
battlefields of Kurope but interest
in the operations is overshadowed
by the pending peace proposals of
Germany and her allies. The op
erations within the past 24 hours
have developed important happen
ings only in the Rumanian war
urea. Here the Teutonic armies
are continuing their advance in
eastern Wallachia. Berlin an
nounces that Rumania ii resistance
has been overcome along the Ja
lomitza river, where a stand had
been made by the Rumanians, re
inforced by Russian cavalry.
The Rumanian armies are re
ported to be again in full retreat
to the northeast, presumably fall
ing back upon the line of the Bu
zeu close to the southern Molda
vian border. More than 7,000 ad
ditional prisoners were taken by
Field Marshal Von Mnckensen's
armies yesterday.
NO CHANGE ON LIQUOR.
Seventeen Massachusetts Cities Maintain
Their Positions.
Boston. Dec. 13. Elections held in 17
cities in this state yesterday produced
no, changes in the license situation. jpib
of the cities, Chelsea. Chicopee, Lawrence,
Lowell and Worcester, remain in the li
cense column, although in Chelsea, Chico
pee and Unveil the margins were con
siderably reduced. In most of the cities
the no-license sentiment has prevailed
for a number of years and in the absence
of important contests for office there was
a general lack of interest in the elections.
The mayors, successful in seeking re
election were Harold Sweet in Attleboro,
Daniel .L Coaklev in Chicopee. George II.
Newhall in Lynn, Charles H. Adams in
Melrose. Zcheder E. Cliff in Somerville,
Dr. Charles M. Blodgett in Maiden and
Benjamin f . Maynes in .Meaiora.
The new mayors chosen were James
Ar.Pherson in Beverly. Edward E. Wil-
lard in Chelsea, John J. Mullen in Ever
ett, Walter B. Hopkinson in Newbury-
port, Alfred S. Hall in nevere, nuiura
D. Gray in Woburn and Pehr G. Holmes
in Worcester. In Lawrence, Ixwell and
Newton it was an off year on the may
oralty.
Newton pave the preferential system
of voting its first trial in this state. Thi
motlioH does awav with the primary
nominations. Considerable confusion de
veloped in some instances particularly in
the voting for alderman at large, in
which 1,123 ballot out of 2,441 were
thrown out as defective. The city voted
to grant old age and disability pensions
to its firemen.
THIRD VICTIM.
Of Trichinosis is Lyman Heath of Or
leans. Orleans, Dec. 13. Lyman Heath, third
victim of trichinosis, died at his residence
on East street, Tuesday at 3:30 a. m
after a brave fight of five weeks against
this dreaded disease. He was born in
South Bariiston, P. Q-. April 23, 1888.
When 13 years old he moved with his
parents to the. Churchill farm, a mile or
more from the village, and in the town
of Irasburg. He was educated in the pub
lic schools and Orleans high school. He
was for several years assistant treasur
er of the Central Savings Bank and
Tnut f'- lfe was united in marriage.
October 6, 1010, with Blanche Jennette
Baldwin of Stanstcad, I. y. two chil
dren were born to them, Oscar Wilcox,
nearly four years old, and Rosetta Jean,
four months of age.
In 1011, Mr. Heath, because of impaired
health, left the bank and bought the
Barrow farm, continuing his residence in
the village. Two year ago he bought
in addition, what is known as the Asa
B. Matthews homestead and farm. He
was energetic and successful.
Mr. Heath leaves to mourn his death,
the two children above mentioned, his
father, Oscar Walter Heath, and his
mother, Rosetta Kinney Heath, of Coati
cook, P. Q., a brother, Elgin, of Fitch
burg, Mass., and a sister, Mrs. Luther
Moulton of Coaticook. The funeral serv.
ices will be conducted by Rev. W. S.
Smithers, Thursday at 10:30 a. m., at his
late residence. The burial will be at
Crystal Lake cemtery, Stanstead, by the
side of Mrs. Heath, whose, funeral took
place last Saturday.
SENTENCE SUSPENDED.
And Mrs. Porter Was Taken Home by
Her Legal Husband.
Brattleboro, Dec. 13. Instead of go
ing to Waterbury asylum for observa
tion. Mrs. Walter" E. Porter of Marlboro,
charged with bigamy, was taken by her
legal husband, Rufus Warren, to his
home in Lowell, Mass., to-day. Shi re
tracted her plea of not guilty and plead
ed guilty. Judge Barber of the munici
pal court suspended a sentence of two
and a half years.
WINDFALL FOR RUTLAND MAN.
Lathrop H. Baldwin Gets $25,000 From
Uncle's Estate in Cincinnati
Rutland, Doe. 13. A legacy of $25,000
walk left to Lathrop H. Baldwin of this
city by the will of his uncle, the late
Francis H. Baldwin, former publisher
and a member of the Cincinnati sinking
fund board of trustees. After this and
other private bequests are made, the resi
due, which it U thought will be $.500,000,
goes to the University of Cincinnati.
CANADIAN WARSHIP LOST.
The Grilse Believed to Have Gone Down
with All on Board.
Ottawa. Doe, 13. The Canadian tor
pedo boat Grilse, commanded by Lieut.
Witmate, has been lot at sea with all
hands, it is feared. This announcement
was made to-day by the minister of na
val service.
MILLARD T. KING DIED
IN TUNBRIDGE TO-DAY
Was Merchant in His Home Town and
President of the Bank at Chelsea
Had Been Town Treasurer
Many Years.
Chelsea, Dec. 13. Millard T. King, one
of tho wealthiest men in this vicinity
and president of the National Bank of
Orange County, died at his home in Tun
bridge at 7:30 this morning as the re
sult of a shock sustained at 10:30 last
night. I'p to the. time of tho shock he
had appeared to be in his nsual health.
Mr. King was the son of Aaron N.
and Eliza B. (Nutter) King and was 89
years of age. His father was one of
the most prominent men in Tunbridge,
being engaged in the mercantile business
for many years, and the son succeeded
to the business under the name of A; N.
King & Son following his education in
the old Randolph academy. Besides be
ing at the head of the hank in Chelsea,
and conducting the mercantile business,
Mr. King was interested in other finan
cial projects. At the time of his death
he was town treasurer, having been first
elected to that position in 1881. He also
was postmaster for many years. He had
represented Tunbridge in tho House of
Representatives and had also been
Orange county senator. The only near
relative surviving is his wife.
The arrangements for the funeral have
not been completed.
WAS MIDDLEBURRY PROFESSOR. .
Archibald D. Wetherell Died After Two
Weeks' Illness.
Middlebury, Dec. 13. Archibald D.
Wetherell, head of the history depart
ment at Middlebury college, died yester
day afternoon at the Mary Fletcher hos
pital in Burlington after a short illness.
Prof. Wethereli's sudden death is a shock
to the college. He was very popular,
not only among students, but in the
town as" well. He was 40 years of age.
His death was ccused by an infected
clot which formed in a large blood ves
sel at the base of the brain. He be
came ill two weeks ago with an acute
cold in the head and he was finally taken
to the hospital to be treated by special
ists. Professor Wetherell was born in Rus
sell, N. Y., the son of Darius and Sarah
Barbara Wetherell. who survive him. He
was educated a Potsdam, N. Y., Nor
mal school, was graduated from Middle
bury college with high honors, in 1905.
He was an instructor at the college from
1305 until 1008. For the next two years
he took post-graduate work at Harvard.
He was. a member of the lMta Upsilon
fraternity and of the Phi Beta Kappa.
He was a serious student of the his
tory of politics, and in the recent pres
idential campaign' was quite actrve. He
was not married.
ANCIENT CASE REVIVED.
Has Been in Litigation Ever Since 1874
and Was Over an Estate.
Middlebury, Dec. 13. Work was re
sumed in the Addison county court Fri
day morning after an adjournment since
Friday afternoon. The case taken up is
scheduled as in re estate of diaries N.
Hay ward, Emma C. Eldredge trustee, vs.
Rose Lucia, administratrix, J. H. Lucia's
estate, trustee and appellant. The case
goes back to the death of Charles X.
Hayward in Bridport, 1874, and has been
in the probate court in one way or an
other ever since his will was offered for
probate after his death.
The J. H. Lucia, whose estate is in
volved, was originally a Bridport man,
served in the Civil war, became a lawyer,
and was for two years state's attorney
for Addison county, after which time he
removed to Montpelier and was a promi
nent business man there up to the time
of his death, March, 1015. Previous to
his death Mr. Lucia resigned his trustee
ship of the estate of Mr. Hayward and
John F:. Weeks of Middlefiury was ap
pointed trustee in his place. The case,
after various compliestions and mix-ups,
has come up from the probate court in
the Addison district to the county court,
for a decision on" one particular point,
whether a payment of 3.000, which went
to Mrs. E. C." Eldredge, now of Colorado
Springs, Col., was a proper and legal pay
ment under the will.
No judgment was announced yester
dav and it is likely that whatever the
judgment of this court the case will go
to supreme court for a final decision.
HAS 17,000 MEMBERS.
Vermont State Grange Convention Being
Held in Rutland.'
Rutland, Dec. 13 A representative
gathering of Vermont grangers assem
bled here yesterday for the three days'
45th annual convention. Willis N. Cady
of Middlebury, state master, occupied the
chair. A brief business session in the
morning was followed by the master's
annual address yesterday afternoon and
speeches last night by Commissioner of
Education Milo B. Hillegas of Montpel
ier, Judge John E. Weeks 6Y Middlebury,
chairman of the state penal board, and
W. J. Ixiwell of Fredonia, N. Y., mas
ter of the New York State grange. May
or B. L. Stafford welcomed the conven
tion. The grange has 17,000 members in 100
subordinate granges in the state, accord
ing to Secretary A. L. Priest of Ran
dolph. There are 23 Pomona granges.
In comparison with a year ago the pres
ent total membership varies very lit
tle. The grange has a permanent fund
of $11,584.37 and a current fund of $f.
700.08, according to Treasurer F. B. Pier
of Brattleboro. The expenditures of the
last year for officers' fees, delegates' ex
penses, etc., amounted to $3,335.45.
NO FOUL PLAY FOUND.
Despite Various Rumors About Ernest
Rowe's Death.
Burlington, Dec. 13. An autopsy per
formed on the body of Ernest Rowe.
who was run over by an electric car near
u;u;Li Mundav nicllt. showed that
death was due to crushing of the lungs
and liver by the wheels of the car. There
were rumors about ine street, yesterday
!... was .truck over tti bea,! hr
an enemy and left on the car track; but
the evidence seems to hear out ute theory
that bo laid down on the track while in
toxicated.
UNITED STATES
VERY CAREFUL
Not to Endanger Peace Ne
gotiations by Any
Comment
WILSON AWAITS THE
OFFICIAL PROFFER
He Stands Ready to Deliver
the Message Very
Promptly
Washington, D. C, Dee. 13. President
Wilson's course of action in connection
with Germany's peace proposal remained
undecided to-day while he awaited the
official proffer, which the central powers
have asked the t inted States to trans
mit to their enemies.
The impression grew that while the
presidents first consideration was to
safeguard his usefulness as a peacemaker
bv omitting anv comment, which might
possibly be coupled with rejection by the
entente powers, there was a disposition
to find some way to intimate the sincere
wish of the United States that some ba
sis for a discussion, at least, might be
found.
The German embassy to-day had no
further advices on the terms of the cen
tral governments, but it was freely ad
mitted that the terms had been purpose
ly omitted from the chancellor's speech
and note because the sole purpose was to
propose a conference, on terms and to
avoid advancing any which might be the
basis for a refusal.
SPAULDING HONOR STUDENTS
For Second Six Weeks of Fall Term
Were Announced To-day.
Principal II. H. Jackson of Spaulding
high school announced to-day the list of
honor students in the high school for the
second six weeks of the fall terra. The
list is as follows: s
First Honors.
Seniors, Richard Cruickshank, Eliza
beth La Flam; juniors, Vivien Marrion;
onhomores. Doris Bradley. Helen
O'Kecfe. Emma Trentini; freshmen. Har
old Blackmore, Ralph Daftine, Helen Ros
coe, Carroll Tucker, Lena Valli, Lucy
WeJIs.
Second Honors.
Seniors. Grace Bixbv. Marguerite Cur
rier, Lclia Corti, Vivian Dodge, Emma
Downing, Isabell Gall, Allan .Johnston,
Marion Rickert; juniors, Alice Downing,
Doris Eastman, Hildreth Martin, Freda
Ladd, Kathleen OTary, Lena Tedeschi,
Marion Tilden: sonhomores. Henry Bis-
son, Janet Brock, Creste Gianni, Belmont
Houghton, Marjorie Love, Howard Jlc
Knight, Floyd Mitchell, Clarence Rogers;
freshmen. Corinne Eastman, Mary Goals,
Helen Gordon. Lucy Lucchina, Pietro Pi
roni, Aldo Poletti.Orlo Spear, Irma Va
netti. DEFRAUDED GOVERNMENT.
Widow of Pensioner and Her New Hus
band Admitted Charge.
Rutland. Dee. 13. Robert Williams.
colored, a Pullman car porter, who was
indicted for smuggling by the federal
grand jury in October beTause a quantity
of heroin was found in his locker on a
train bound from Canada into the United
States, was permitted to go on his own
recognition by Judge Howe in district
court yesterday. District Attorney V.
A. Billiard asuea inai me case ue con
tinued and Judge Howe named bail of
$1000.
H A Cobb of this city, aged 45 years,
and his wife, 56, pleaded guilty to indict.
ments of three counts eaca cnarging per
jury and procuring false affidavits in vio
lation of the pension laws and were sen
tenced to serve seven months each at
the house of correction. The woman's
first husband was William Wentworth. a
Civil war veteran. After he died and
while the wife of Cobb she tried to get a
widow'sf pension, swearing that she had
not remarried. Cobb assisted her in get
ting the fake affidavits.
In the case of Lniteit Mates vs. moior
l.nat. (ltcfll. owner!, violation of law re
garding carrying of lights, a fine of $10
was imposed, tne case oi i niieu ciaies
vs. Ottawa Irish, burglary, was nolle
orossed as the man has been punisnea
by the state.
In Hip chancery case of the Mohawk
Overall company "of Schenectady, N. Y.,
.... ii.. 'fniMfl, Mitchell eomoanv
. nil- vv.-w, .... - r
of Brattlolioro, the bill was dismissed,
with costs.
VERMONT BUSINESS TROUBLES.
Star Waist Company of Richford in In
voluntary Proceedings.
Rutland Dee. 13. Schedules in the in
voluntary bankruptcy case of the Star
Waist company of Richford were filed
with the clerk ot tne united oiaies
court, r. J, liar., yenvciuaj. xu- wn
cera is a partnership between Harry
Nicholas and Simon Kaplan. The firm
t,aa liuHilitic of $10,720.90 and assets of
10,S.".S2, of which $1500 is in open ac
counts and SNZTS stooK in irane. .Mr.
Vichnla. has liabilities of f.i.10 in taxes
due Richford and no assets.
DRIFTS FOUR FEET HIGH.
Auto Stage Was Held Up for Two Hours
at Marlboro.
Brattleboro, Dec. 13. F. K. Johnson.
ie staee driver, left Wilmington this
th
irninr bv automobile tor Braltlcnoro.
- . . . l-A-
At
Marlboro he encountered snowarn."
fwt hion. He sent here for a team
and two men had to shotel two jiours to
open the road.
it., rl,mrt. Fmirnier left this noon
with her children for Worcester, Mass-
re she is to join nor nusoana, woo
u,n omnloved in a Worcester ma
chine shop for several months. They will
remain in Worcester unm mnurr uju-
mer. when they imen-i 10 rcium v
Harre.
CITY DEPARTMENTS
GET APPROPRIATIONS
Several of Them Are Getting to the Bot
tom of the Barrel in the Closing
Weeks of the Fiscal
Year.
City departments specified in a resolu
tion offered at the regular meeting of
the aldermanic board lost evening and
passed to a second reading will need
510,070 to tide them through the remain
der of the fiscal year. It is known that
several departments, feeling the drain of
heavy expenditures in HMO, are dragging
the bottom and the resolution now
awaiting adoption is expected to relieve
in a measure the drooping finances in
certain quarters. Streets are to receive
1,350 and the regular water department
appropriation due at this time is N,0(0.
The remaining appropriations provided
in the resolution arc as follows: Poor,
$1,000; park commission, $00; resurfac
ing streets, $200; elections, $30. No op
position was offered to passing the reso
lution along to a second reading.
A. Tomasi is out with another build
ing plan at 10 Merchant street, but be
fore he goes ahead with his hammer and
nails, the committee of the whole and
the fire chief will look over his proposal
to add a story to the two-story tenement
already on the grounds and to extend the
ell section of the structure. Mr. Tomasi
applied for a permit through Inspector
G. M. Band, who referred it to the com
mittee. Other permits granted on tho
inspector's favorable recommendation
are: M. Villa, to erect a carriage shed on
Granite street, with the reservation that
one wall be of brick 12 inches through
and that the wall of another structure
already erected must have a 12-inch brick
wall; G. W. Mann, t,o build six dwelling
houses on Willey, Laws and Mann
streets.. A. W. Ross was granted per
mission to move a henhouse from Long
street to Maple avenue.
Alderman Reynolds reminded the board
that the three-year contract with the
People's Liuhtina. Heating &. Tower Co.
for furnishing steam used in blowing the
fire whistle is to expire Dec. 31. As a
member of the fire committee, he recom
mended that the contract be renewed at
the present price, $150 per year. Alder
man Sliurtleff was for limiting the con
tract to a one-year term, but while he
was beginning to give his reasons for the
change, the remainder of the board com
passed the delay ky concurring in Alder
man Reynolds' opinion and the three
year contract, will be renewed, as it de
veloped that the cas company is practi
cally the only concern in the city that
can' give reliable and continuous service
in the matter of blowing whistles.
Digging down among past petitions,
the tire committee reported that hy
drants had been installed recently at the
corner of Cambria and Railroad streets
and at the corner of Liberty and Hill
streets. Alderman Healy reported that
conditions on Smith street demand a hy
drant. The committee report was ac
cepted. In the matter of taxing shooting
galleries, the license committee, in a ma
jority report, recommended that the dart
gallery at the corner cigar store be taxed
along with the ritle range across xne
street. The report was accepted.
Wiring permits reported by Inspector
D. M. Gilbertson were granted tie ioi
lowing applicants: F. D. Beckley, to
change lights at 12 Seminary street;
Jones Bros., to install motor; C. A.
Clark, to wire for lights on Abbott ave
nue: W. Milne Granite Co., to install
portable polishing mill; W. C. Johnson,
to install fixtures at 74 iremoni sum;
Montpelier & Barre Light & Power Co.,
to install five meters.
Overseer W. J. Clapp's charity depart
ment report for October referred to a
balance on hand at the beginning of the
month of $37.08 and other items as fol
lows: Appropriation, $700; disburse
ments, $776.34; overdraft. $39.28; turned
in for board of dependent, $4fi.40; net
expense for month. $720.04. The finan
cial statement of F. O. Ue, superintend
ent of the water department, for the
months of July, August and September,
was accepted along with the overseer's
report.
Warrants approved for payment were:
Street department payroll, $100.21,
street, surface sewer, sidewalk and health
accounts; water department payroll,
$04.37; fire department payroll. $00.30;
police department payroll, i?!MI..S0; G. A.
Bemis, $14, services as city hall janitor;
park commission treasurer, $402.75.
OPENED WITH SUPPER.
Large Number Participated at the Pres
byterian Church.
T.. 1,n,lril neonle who sat down to
the chicken-pie supper in the vestry of
..... . l I.... ... An
nie hirst l resDyierian cnurcn n turn
ing helped to make auspicious the open
ing of the annual Christmas sale of the
ladies' union. -For two hours, beginning
j OClocK, tne women aim nuuiuci
,...n unman who bad eharce of the
VJ, jwm.f, .......... - - c-
tables had to use the quick step to keep
everybody nappy. ineuppei
!, a,,0"l ctunHaril and. together with
the service, registered another big suc
cess for the culinary attainment of the
Presbyterian women.
Thrno attractively arranged booths
were erected for the Christmas trade,
which waxed brisk from the hour the
doors swung open to the public until
long after supper. Mrs. Edgar Cross
land, Mrs. James R. McKenzie and Mrs.
Kenneth McRae ha.l charge of the fancy
booth and the apron 1hm.Hi was presided
vr Mrs Alexander Ma.kie, Mr.
James Rhind and Mr. McCaskill. Mrs.
A. J. Stewart and Mrs. George Vmng
guided the destinies of the domestic
booth. People who patronizeu me minia
ture shopping district found a variety of
11 - I 'IT , I .....
Chr
istnim anion, i m-
.; dftpmnon am! thU evfriins
tin
th
re will be an abundance of good things
!.. timers to examine.
for
To-night' the young women of the
hi.
r"h will t'O seen in n rmcriain.njj
play
let entitled. "The Peak SiMer from
Knme very interesting imner-
Aiar
sona
,;,. r nrnmie.l us the n.cmliors
.i,...,.-, - - , -
the cast have been trained to the
of
nth
degree in the roles assigned them.
trn.nU alonir with the revenue
The
f lin .iinnor will be devoted it m.m-
erous good works which the la,iiV un-
has in band.
Miss Roso Morgan returned to bcr
home in Roxburv this afternoon, alter j
viiting relatives on Prospect trcct dur
ing the past few days.
POWER CHARTER
IS NOT f tOSED
But the Cf $A Corporation
Suggep'' iome Changes
in Franchise
HEARING WAS GIVEN
BY CITY COUNCIL
(
Promoters Thought the City
Should Make Some
Concessions
Citizens who attended the public hear,
ing on the proposal to enfranchise the
Central Power Co., which is seeking the
right to establish power and transmis
sion lines in Barre, presented a solid
front in supporting the petition of the
franchise seekers. The hearing, con
ducted before the city council ut city
hall last evening, was prolific of a num
ber of developments, but the attitude
taken by individuals in seconding any
action that will bring lower rates on
electricity used for commercial and do
mestic purposes was the outstanding fea
ture. Next in importance to this de
velopment is the fact that the power
company appears to have turned the
"volte face" to some of its own sugges
tions and is demanding additional priv
ileges which have not been sought when
ever the company's representatives and
tho council have met for a conference.
Mayor Gordon presided at the hearing
and to him was addressed a somewhat
caustic letter from Charles H. Thompson,
who, as the company's representative in
these parts, has been active in his efforts
to obtain the franchise. The letter was
read at a brief council session prior to
the hearing and again when the citizens
had assembled. Among those who di
gested its contents were: W. T. Calder,
A. E. Campbell, E. A. Drown, James T.
Marrion and Joseph Ladrie, who were
joined afterward by W. H. Messer, James
Grearson and J. T. Callaghan. Mr.
Thompson's note from the Central Power
Co. said he had read with some surprise,
that the council had been making amend
ments to the proposed franchise after he
had departed from the joint conferences,
and he had decided not to attend any
more of the meetings until a franchise
had been reduced to writing and submit
ted to him for examination. To begin
with, he went oft, he had been working
for four years on the power project, had
contemplated a reasonable profit from
the enterprise and while the company
had had several opportunities to "sell
out,'' the offers had been turned down, as
the company proposed to do business.
For that reason, he continued, he ob
jected to the clause which restricts the
company from assigning the franchise to
any other concern or corporation. More
over he claimed legal authority for the
statement that the clause will not hold
water, so to speak, because it is uncon
stitutional. On the next count he asked
that the life of the proposed franchise
be extended from 25 to 40 years, inas
much as the bond issue needed to float
the project may have to be reuewed with
in a certain number of years. As for the
minimum charge clause inserted by the
council, he said that the 50-cent feature
was not a barrier so far as the company
is concerned, but that he had announced
his intention of doing business on a flat
rate basis and that the clause, therefore,
was irrelevant.
Allowing for extenuating circum
stances to a certain degree, he continued,
the company expects to have its lines in
operation bv July 1. 1017. but the condi
tion of the markets in the midst of ft
world war makes it impossible to receive
shipment guaranties and for that reason
the company will object to filing a bond,
the $1,000 bond requested by the council.
On the next count, Mr. Thompson said
that the corporation now furnishing pow
er to Barre cpnsumers has had opportu
nities in the past six years to purchase
additional rights and that it possessed m
its office data and information which
could have been used in eliminating the
power shortage that has recurred. This
has not been done, however, he claimed.
In closing, therefore, he said that onerous
conditions not now met by the corpora
.: ulr.,,K- in the field should not be
imposed on' a concern that is seeking to
promote the largest nyuro-eiccn .c (..
ject that has been developed in New Eng
land for some years. Referring also to
, ia.o aff,.ctinir the assignment of the
franchise, Mr. Thompson declared that
.... i e n.- ru.t.al
the same capital Daen oi xne
companv is back of lour oiner enu-. -prises
in Vermont and that any of them
might want to use tne irancnise.
The City Council's Analyses.
Although the citizens present had
every opportunity to express their views,
it remained for the council to make some
..e ,i... n.,ni in Mr. Thompson's
,,1 ,!- .l,f...U - .
letter look like a composite picture oi
air the holes that were Wed in the col
lection pans at Sunday's Boston taber
nacle to prevent them trom mi.
t... .i..;fi, Iwniacwives. Indeed.
I., iitii..
some of the excerpts pried loose by the
. i I ( ck A (half
ouncil reeinbe,1 a coianacr n.v
iad been exposed to the light.
4. .i... ....;i men i-i-emed to under-
.-,- in- i , . .
i t, Ti,nmnin main oniectmns
st
centered on the minimum charge and in
demnity bond feature, n was i.
the company actually found no fault
ith the minimum im-ici "iif,
...j :.. Idler, and that the $1,000
bond feature was seaie-t wun m com
pany's approval on the occasion of the
first" conference. In the first instance, it
a, resiled that the company's repre
sentatives, severally and ingly, sub
,ri!.ed to the clause preventing the pow
er people front assigning the franchise,
this t the firt conference after the
franchise was drafted. On another
c.mt the councillors reminded one an
(her' that the power representatives
..ripinallv fixed th.-ir own limit .Inly 1.
I!f7-a- the time when the lines should
be transmitting power and that the ei-
(Continued on fourth p-ge)
s
