Xb
VOLU.VlE XXXII. LAURENS, SOUTH CAROLINA, W DNESDAY, D ECEMBER 13,1986.ER2
P[AC PROPOSALS W[R[ MAD[
BY IB[_GERMANS Y[SUEROAYI'
Chancellor Von Bethmann-Hollweg Receives Repre
sentatives of the United States, Spain and Other
Neutral Countries and Signifies Willifgness on the'
Part of Central Powers to Enter into Peace Nego
tiations Forthwith.
(Spartainhtrg Journal.)
Ierlin, )ee. 12.-(y Wireless.)-Giierany and her allies propose
to etier fotl' lwit h into peaee negot iat ions.
Chianvellor \ol I lihann iiii -Iloll weg received the rep resentat ives of
the 1'nited States, Spain and Switzerlhnd, the nations protecting Ger
11111 interests ini hostile trmiit ies i1nd gave them a Iote. wh ich he asked
that they br-ing to the knowledge of the hostile goveI' ments.
Proim1sals1.1' wr alIso Inml1sm11itted 11 the Vatican anad all ot he ritnentrals.
The proositions, which aso a1e beilg Imade by Aistriai, Turkish
:mid Ilinlgarianl gov'erlinlts, ale appropia'te to lastling pwee, itel an
'eellor tohl tle neultril lenvoys. The semi-official news agenciv anniioun11e
ing the a-tion said the note woul be read in the Rieiclistag today by
the cial ncellor.
The semii-Olfieial News Ag en-y annoinneemiienit said: "The (hiancellor
thi's inoraning received 0ne after another of 1the reprsentatives of the
Ulnited States of' Amuueriea. Simaini an1d Switze-rlan1d. that is the states
p roteeling G('rian interests in hostile foreign countries. The han
('llor tranism itted to them ita not( and isked them to brinig it to the
knowledge (of tle hostlle govermllents. The note will 1)e riead todhiy iIl
the 1R'ilstalg by tle c1 han(ellor.
"Tthe no1t sid i lit' fou' allied (eentrill) Iowers l'I op)ose to enter
forthwith on11 e'ee negotition1s. T'i'e propositionl which they bring
for Sne i Ilegot ions 11 a1C(ording I tiril' firm belief, a1 ppropriate fo'
the establishmiienlt of lasting peace.
"To the governmnents at Vienna, Constalitiniople and Sofia were
trnansmitted identical notes and also they were eom niiicated with the
lloly See and all other netural governments."
, I. H bWEG'S STATEMENT'I.
London, Dec. 12.-A Berlin wireless said Chancellor Hollweg in
the Reichstag announed that Germany and her allies "conscious of
their responsibility before God, before their own nation and before
hiuianity" hive proposed to hostile powers to enter into peace negotia
tions.
THE T RMS OF PFACE.
Washington, Dec. 12.----Itr in adviees to the German embassy indi
eated the German peace terims generally propose the restoration of the
.tatus quo before the war with.the exception of the establishment of in
dependent kingdoms of Poland, and Iithmania. - They are understood
to propose the complete restoration of the occupied portions of Belgium
and France in return for Germany's captured colonies and dispose of
the Balkan situation in the peace conference.
SURPRISE TO WASHINGTON.
Washington, Dec. 12.-News of Teutonic peace proposals was gen
orally a distinct surprise here. There was no previous indication that
the Central Powerk were about to make proposals.
News was sent President Wilson immediately. Secretary Tumulty
said here he could not commet uintil he learned how the entente allies
had received the proposals.
The state department and diplomats received their first informa
t,ion through an Associated Press dispatch.
The officials assumed the nations addressed were merely asked to
transmit the proposals. The United States will do this on receipt of
offcial dispatches.
Such note is usually not made public.
If the proposal is deemed one w'hich both sides might negotiate the
United States probably will urge its being taken up.
TWO PItISONEIS ESCAPE.
C One Is Apprehended Near Clinton, but
the Other Has not been Caught.
Roy Vaughn, held for breaking into
a store at Lydia mill at Clinton, and
another young prisoner by the name
of Lark, who escaped recently from the
state reformatory, made their escape
from the county jail Friday night
about one o'clock and one of them,
Roy Vaughn, still remains at large.
Lark, who is a mere lad, was tracked
to 'luion the same night by Rural
Policeman Owens and City Policeman
likely and caught just before he
reached the city--limits. Roy Vaughn,
who was' t roked in the direction of
Fountatin Inn, managed to elude his
p.ursu ers, Deputy sheriff Ow1ingus and
Poic eian Davenport, and succeeded
ir making his escape. The two latter
ameers were traveling in a buggy and
were not able to make as fast time a;
the other officers, who were drivin ; a
car of well known make.
'rhe escape of the two culprits was
discovered about midnight by City Of
ficers Blakely and Reams as they were
making their regular rounds. Their
suspicion was aroused whenthey saw
an improvised rope made of blanket@
hanging frou one of the jaik *106 i
and at once aroused the deputy eiietiff.
'fho two prisoners were not fountid- is
(C their accustomed cells, so the search
for them was immediately begun. The
-- ground being soft from the rain which
was then falling made it possible t
locate their' #aok some distance Iron
the Jgil. VpiWh, who made a sue.
aesfui p j ,trefesed haimselt
*ith dr0 .s 4erdaes and a" A
Mr M y' '1od stoyiM 3N
dale Station. He also secured a shot.
gun there belonljing to Mr . Ler
Yeargin besides a box of shells al(
a watch. The officers think he is at
old hand at the game. Deputy Sherifl
Owings followed clues as far n
Greenville, but was unable to locate
him there. lowever, he made use o
his trip there by landing two negroev
wanted for other crimes in this coun
ty.
A rather amusing Incident in con
nection with the escape of the tw<
11risoners was their evidelnt disdai
for the local Jail, they having an
nounced to Mr. Owings just the morn
Ing before that they expected to breal
out in a Nery short time. They miia"d
good their threa', using a hack-say
that they had been able to seercte il
their cells.
Protracted Meetings (lose.
The protracted meetings which hav
been in Irogress at the Pirst Presby
terian church for several weeks cam
to a close Sunday night with service
participated in by all the other con
gregations of the city. Rev. leo. V
Belk, who has been conducting th
services, preached one of his mo:
forceful sermons and many were vis
bly affected. The meeting was ver
helpful from many standpoints, th
inembership of the church being largo
'ly augmented and the spirituality o
the congregation greatly revive
Thirty members were added to t1
church roll Sunday morning. Re
Belk not only made a strong imprei
ston in the city as a preacher at
evangellot, but made numerous pe
'sonal rlends as well. The. singin
'under the direotion of Mr. owdy. wi
66itotiveofeature otthe.,eg't1!q
'IE.AT INSPECTION SITBLJECT
OF WAIIM IIS(lSiSIONS
,coal lutchers Object to Local liealth
((deer and .lient Inspector. Offier
Ipheld.
Monday afternoon the 'City Council
mnd Board of Health held the second
oint meeting within a week to con
ider complaints being registered by
he butchers of the town against
health Officer Franks. Also for the
second time the Council went on ree
)rd as supporting the health depart
inent and Mr. Franks.
The friction between the butchers
und the health officer, a long standing
tffair, apparently came to a head last
week when the council and health de
partment met in joint session to con
sider a speiecle complaint brought by
\l r. 'Dlon Irvin, a local butcher, against
the health oflicer. It was charged by
\l r. Irvin that the health ofilcer had
condemned and destroyed two hogs
which a local veterinary surgeon had
declared fit to eat. Members of the
board of health absolved Mr. Franks
tfroin the charge, stating that .\l r.
Franks had acted upon their direction,
three of them having visited the city
slaughter house and condemned the
meat. It was pointed out by members
of the board who had examined the
hogs that a number of infected places
were found on them. To prevent fric
tion, however, the board of health
recommended and the council adopted
the recolnmCndation to allow the
health inspector and the butchers to
call for expert advice in case of a
disagreement in the future. The joint
session adjourned with the trouble
apparently amicably adjusted.
Friday afternoon the former trou
ble -broke out again when Officer
Franks hesitated to pass a hog car
cass belonging to Mr. John Armstrong,
the marketman on West Main street.
Mr. Franks, according to the state
ment of Dr. Ferguson before the joini
session yesterday, refused to put the
official stamp of approval upon the
hog, but offered to arbitrate the mat
ter as provided for at the counci
meeting.
Mr. Armstrong agreed to carry the
hog to Clemson college and have il
passed on there. Accordingly MIr
Franks and Mr. Armstrong carried
the carcass to Clemson college and n
veterinary surgeon there pronounced
the infection as local and the meat as
'harmless in the unaffected portions
Upon their return from Clemson. Mr
Armstrong notified Health Officer
Franks that he would no longer recog
nize his authority and refused hin
access to his market.
Although dir. Armstrong was not a
the meeting of council Monday after
noon, it was understood that the coun
cil met to consider his demand tha
Mr. Franks be, discharged on th
grounds of incompetency. Upon th
convening of the council Dr. Fergu
son, of the board of health, reviewe
the case as substantially outline
- above. lie pointed out that the healt
fofileer had n'ot ,acted uipon his ow
responsibility In either ease at issu<
hav ing receivedl direct Inst rution
from the hoard of health to condema
and (lestro .\0 Mr. I rvin's two hogs an
that be had gone no furt her ini .\
Armtistraong's case than submittin g th
maltter to arbitration. in s.u pport
.\'..lFrankls' comptent'aCY. Ilr. I'OrantS(
-(utotedl a letter fromu the hieaty (1lice
of Greenv'ille in wich that gcelnm
('0n11 rmed the d iagnoses oft three li
ers sent there b~y Mlr. Franks. I)
F lergutson aid tha~ Ilt the boarad ha
uim lii tously pa ssedl a r';ol ut ion
confidencee in .\r. Frankths and aske
the countc il to suista in the 11)In thle!
11os11Ion. Aldermnan WattIs of'ferc
some object Ion to the re tenti:on of .\
.. Franks in thle initerest (If ;eace ani
harmony, bt upon01 a motion byv Alde
nait Fowler the conneil went on recot
.. as endlorsing the board'i of healh la o
,its nominee, Mr'. Franks.
e In the course of the meetIngs, diI
t forent mnember's of the Ihoard of I Iealt
-- Dr)1. Ferguson, Dr. Tenague andM
y Monroe, pointed out that it was 'noti
e be exp~ected that the health officer ar
the butchers would agree and th;
If' were they to agree on aUl cases tI
1. qfficer would more than likely pro'
e a usoless burden upon the city. TI
r, matter had resolved itself into il
question, they said, whether tl
d Board of Health or the butchers we
''to run the health department of tl
,. city. 'They intinated that if they we
a5 'not ut)beid in this inStAncb that thi
tEl) 'ROSS SEALS
AS BUSINESS ET'TEliS
barge Life Insurance Company 31akes
Purchases Solely for Business Bea.
sons.
To enable their policy holders to
live as long as possible was the sole
reason for a large life insurance corn
pany buying last. month 13,000 Red
Cross Christmas s.als at 'one time.
This firm made the statement that
their action was dictated solely by
business reasons, and that they could
not for any reason claim any credit
on the score for phillanthropy. They
believed it good business on the fol
lowing grounds:
That presence of tuberculosis
means it greater financial loss to the
connunity, and its greatest ravages
are found among the poor.
Tihat. It. is more logical to spend
money to get rid of the disease than
to reflect lie co.;t of Supporting its
victiis in an increased tax rate.
That. the, aflliction of the bread
winners of lie fainily with the dis
ease means lowered efliciency and
less earning capacity, which in turn
means a lessened power to provide
'tile proper nourishment and environ
miie'ut to successfully oembat its
growth, and that this incapacity of
ten throws his family upon the pub
lic charge.
That no one makes a profit upon a
dead man but the undertaker, and he
makes it only once, whereas a live
man is a constant source of profit to
every one with whom lie does busi
ness, and the more alive and the more
prosperous he is and the more busi
'ness he does, the greater are the pro
fits of those with whom lie deals.
< BIG SHIPMENT OF MAXWELLS
Mr. J. W. McKee Announces the Ship.
ment of a Solid Trainload from De.
troit.
Mr. .J. W. McKee, president of the
Laurens Motor Car Company, dis
tributors of Maxwell cars i n thil
state, announced Saturday that lie had
just completed arrangements for ti(
shipment of a solid trainload of fift)
cars of Maxwells, 150 automobiles It
all, 'to this state within the next fen
weeks. Mr. McKee stated that he
completed booking the orders for then
Saturday and immediately wired Ir
the big order to Detroit. He said that
this was the first shipment of a solic
trainload of automobiles ever made
to South Carolina, attesting to the
popularity and selling qualities of the
car. The shipment will be made t<
Columbia and the cars distribtued t<
the various agencies over the state
from that point. Mr. McKee speaks
very optimistically over the outlool
for spring business and says that the
business being built up on Maxwel
cars Is very gratifying.
Mrs. ,Jane Todd Dk-ad.
A rs. .ane Todd, mother of. Mis. .1
O. C. Fleming, of this city, and Nirs. A
1'. ''honimpson, of Ora, (lied at her hom1
In )ue West yesterday norning. In
1term'ient was miade at 1)ue West ani
was at tend~ed by Mirs. iFlemuing, .\re
Thompjsoni antd thir familIies. M\ r
Todd1( was iln lie Si lh yeari of heri ag
:1nd dleath was duet largely to comlil
0 hiei muarri'age she was a .\1liss .\lcCl I r
tO(.k ild wn.x 11idely connec1ted~t I
t4 his 'oun1t y. S'he was k nownm as
a lid heri detparturie'~ 'a tyed w ides prea
>f
d Iteglarn 3Monthfy Meetitiu of Teaichet
r .\sociat ion lilid Salturday.l
tI The I 1 urens ('(ount1y Teachieris' a:
-sociatti 11(ld its Ilceilmber mti1
(I Saturday at thle graded school bilbI
(d sided, aind the mieetinig was opienc
(I withi exercises conductted by .\iss At
nie Workman, normal teacher in II
r- cIty school. Thel firist part of the pre
[I, grammne was then entered into, whk
r. was tile prlactical teaching of presel
o tation of p~oetr'y as demonstrated
d three depar'tments of the Lauirer
it school-primary, $nter'mediate ai
e high school. This w~as a most into
e~ esting feature and highly instruc~ti
to to the membors, of tho association.
he The association then reassenmbb
he in the auditorium where it was a<
re dressed by Miss Madaline Spigener
ie Colutsbia, president of the State Rur
re mprovement association. She was fc
g7 1owed by Mrs. 10. V. Frierson, supe
. Iina- teach1er for Laurens county.
.NVIlIf W.ll 'iCABI'NET
FINALLY ANNO'N('Ei)
[ioverinment 141 Widl Practically be by a
('abinet. of Four.
London, lDee. 10.-I4e official list of
he new ministry issued tonight fol
lows the unotficial forecast. with two
ar three minor changes. Mr. Iloyd
[ieorge, Lord Alili er, Earl Curzon,
lionar Iaw and Arthur lenderson
form what Is officially termed the war -
cahinet, while the others who ordinari
ly have been designated as cabinet
ministers, are cnlled heads of depart
ments.
An important point in this novel or
ganization is that it. concentrates far
more power in the hands of the iprime'
tr.inister than the iritish system has
ever known beforte'. Mr. I loyd 4eorge's
proposals to Pr'enie Asquith were for
a war c'oneil. of wliic'hi tie premier
shoul not :e a liemier although hit
shtoild have Ite hiower of paimi on
its work. MIrl. Lhoyd (eorge has not
hesitated to thlie postion mlor'e closely
resembling a distatorship t:an he wa:;
willing to give his pirefe'e.so:'.
The wari iabinc t will hol! dfaily e
ionvs, dire 'tinig the vroseention o the
war and the gfreedom of tir. a'loyd
G;eore-e, ILord Milner and \Mr. (lunder
son front departinentail duties will al-1
low them to devote all their time to
the war counnil, the work of 11he ex
chequner and government leadership
in the house of commons will absorb
most. of Mir. Hlonar Law's time, and
attendance on the house of lord's will
necessitate Earl Curzon's absence
from the council, so that 'Mr. Lloyd
George, Lord Milner and Mr. Blender
son will be the chief directors of the
war.
For practical purposes, the gov
ernment will be by a cabinet of, four.
A meeting of the privy council will
re held tomorrow for the swearing
in of the ministers. The prime min
ister will make a speech in the house
of commons Tuesday in which he will
declare the policy of the new govern
'ment, and a bill will be introduced
enabling the members to take their
seats without going through the for
mality of a ne* election which the
law demands when a member accepts
a position under the crown.
The complexion of the new gov
ernment. is 12 Liberals, 15 Unionists,
three L~aborites and the presidents of
the foard of Trade and, Education
and the shipping controller, who have
been attached to no parties.
Sir Robert Finlay's renuneiation of
the pension attached to the office of
lord high chancellor, will be a popu
lar stroke. The lord chancelor draws
10,000 pounds in office and a pension
of 5,000 pounds after his retirement.
There has been much discussion over
the cost of this largely ornamental
office recently. Four retired] chancel
lors are now drawing pensions.
T. P. O"''onnor gives notice of a
. motion In the house' of commons for
the formation of a series of comtis
- sions in parliament, on the Frencl
- tmiodel for' ('oopieraiti with the tmin
I steris in conduct ing the w~ari.
OFF'i('EHlS I NSJI'.LI,1-ll.
. i'iihlle Mee'tting tutd inistalintlin of. thu
e. Ofticer's of' the E-asiern 'itEar.
- Ant impressive~u. insialfltion Scr'xit
n~ in thue .\ani i hall .\londay eveingt
binig at! tnded by a farge' numbef ~ it
and .f its Na ney L . llennuett, Gramt
ed muchitii to if, E'n.iotymeint of the er
'ning.\Aftet the inistatlfationi servic
es, a omusi''af fproigrami w~as renderleiC
sertvedi. 1The fo oowing otfi('( ts wer
installedl:
- Mr. .\ai'on 8imipson, WV. P.
\f.\urs. i)outglas Gray, Asst. M.
M\iss I fat lie Kate IEast'rby, -('or
Ih duictr'ess.
I- Miss Rloberta ihutrohi, Asst. Cot
ni diueies.
iS Miss Esthel laangstoni, Treas.
dt Miss Antie Childt'ess, Secty.
-Mrs. J. N. Richardson, Adah,
'e Mrs. James Sullivan, Ruth.
Miss Loulie Eichelber'ger, Esther.
md Mrs. 5. G1. McDaniel, Martha.
I- Miss Clara Switzer, Electa,
ft MIss Maggie Peterston, Marshal.
kiMis aEther F'owler, Organist.
I- Mrs. Win. Siolomen, WMrder.
r-' Mr. Jatmes Sullivan, Chaplain,
.Mr. Robt. UlchelrgerOntinei.
I[ThRM[O SULDI1[RS,
-Varge Crowd Met Them at
the Train.
[URKEY SUPPER
GIVEN AT HOTEL
itoned and Tanned by Their Life fin
the Open, the Laurens Boys Hetutn
to their Homes and are (laidty Ite.
('celed by Iitthes and l'riends.
'i'Taned by the Texas sun and with
In'alth invigorated by the ontdoor life,
the membilerst of the Traynham Giuards,
th e crack local miiilitary com1ipanv, re
Iulied hom1e last W;rines'lay arter
noon. happy to be amn iig ;h'-i friends
an1 r1( elativeS- againi lmt nRo.' Ih.- less
pleased at their expriencRe -it camp
life. The boys arrived on the after
noon train frolm C 'olunhia wIhere they
had been mnR):dered out the das ' 1oro
and were mi at the station h v a largo
c'rowd gathered to ;greet. '.tem,. Al
though but a few hours definite notice
had been given of their exnected ar
rival, the news soon spread around the
city and the boys were givc n a fitting
welcome.
After a short time allowed the men
to greet. members of their families and
friends at the depot. they were formed
in line and marched to the armory,
their soldierly bearing and healthy
countenances being the subject of
much favorable comment. After
"shucking off" a few marching ac-.
couti'eonents there, the company ap
peared on parade in front of the coirt
house and drilled for about a quarter
of an hour, going through the military
mat enyers with clock-like precision
and neatness. The unanimous opin
ion was that they drilled like regu,
lars and that the country had in them
a band of soldierit Which it might well
boast and be proud of.
Although many of the soldiers were.
anxious to get to their homes in the
country and in adjoining towns, they,
remained in the city until five o'clock
when they were guests of the city at
the Laurens Hotel, where a bountiful
turkey supper was served, the com
pany heingdmet hee . by the members
of the United Daughters of the Con
federacy, the Daughters of the Ameri
can Revolution and citizens of the
town. Mayor J. C. Owings and other
citizens escorted them to the hotel and
assisted in ente rta.ning spring the
supper. Miss .iulia ioby, regent of the
Ilenry lJ.turens chapter, D. A. R., in
voked the blessing upon the meal. On
account of the desire of many of the
men to leave for their homes as early
as possible, no speech making was in
dulged In, the weleome being indicat
I ed1 by deeds rathe: t.u by words.
't'he health of the :' mlmpa ny was ex
ecelient while away I- urm home. With
t'm excepctioni oR i.' 1 iht indisposi
tioni suiffered by Rnu A of thlemi cn ae
'ount oft vaccinaitionf C oni aftir Cruer
in1' campiI at Co)luRaRW. no1 --- km o ol'.
:-y indl was had. I a Iare I!'r(ihe~t
by te goivtran.ien, -..'1( no c.'en
!atecd to app': I to a S tiete oen-e (il'
t aste, \%as sub tan:: ii a n. d jemiful
and1 the mien Rihctwed* no 1j t!Y. 'Is f*r'om
t. In at to the elp.n air . and1 nnR
t rit ions food is la: rgely aR t t1 ribu I d-i e
(campij. Every mianR riturned . ith a
ruddy appearanc1(, a1 he' althy glow~ on
Ite (1heek andI an inl fOcrase avi~rdui
- is Te avcirage giin ni-!ht of'
th menR ini the~ (ompan w~l Va aid to
be oautt ifte poun Rds.
e Thet mRember's of the# coml ny ad
taimore tales to tell ol rabi,l. toads.
snakles anid sand thlani t hey had ot'
A% leis, thIough thley sa id there were
Rmore thiian enough e ven in El Paso.
'Thiey were niot allowed to (ross into
Mexico, so they' had l ittle ex perienice
wi th the Mex icans on t heir tiative"
Sheathi. A few of Ithe m~ore venture
COmeC erossed over the lino( in dIts
guise, but did Riot remain long at a
time, so thteir tales were rathler brief
onI that inre. However, they said
that the regular sentry service at the
border bridges gave to the border a'
warlke air. Many of the men ex
pressed the opinion that the United
States would have trouble on the
Iborder yet and when Unele Sata
called they would be "ready to go".
'They expressed themsqilves ae .being~
