r
1916
1 70A . . s Tk f. asa
VOL LVIII. NO. 43
B
Berlin Reports Repulse of
With Heavy
AUSTRO-HUNGARIANS 3
RECOVER
Indications Are That the Teutons Nearly Have Durazzo Sur
rounded Semi-Official Advices From Petrograd Are to
Effect That Most of the Turkish Garrison at Ezerum
Made Their Escape Thousands of Armenians Are Said
to Have Been Massacred by Kurds Before the Evacua
tion Vienna Reports Less Activity on the Part of the
Italian Guns Than UsuaL
While full details of the capture of
Ezerum, Turkish Armenia, are still
lacking1, semi-official advices from Pe
trograd are to the effect that most of
the Turkish garrison made their es
cape. Thousands of Armenians are
declared to have been massacred by
Kurds before the evacuation.
There has been considerable artil
lery activity around the positions
taken by the Germans recently from
the British in the vicinity of Ypres
and several attempts by the British
to recapture their lost ground by in
fantry attacks. Berlin says the at
tacks were repulsed with heavy cas
ualties. With the exception of a
French assault against the Germans
south of the Somme, which Berlin al
so declares was put down, the artillery
on both sides has been the sole in
strument of warfare along- the French
front. The Austrians and Italians at
various points are still engaged in ar
tillery duels and here and there in
fantry manueuvers, but no notable
victories have been won by either side.
Vienna reports less activity on the
part of the Italian guns than usual.
In Albania the Austro-Hungarians,
reinforced by Albanians, presumably
Irregulars, have occupied Kavaya,
which lies eight miles southwest of
Durazzo and three miles from the
Adriatic Sea. By the capture of this
town it would seem that the Teutons
nearly have Durazzo surrounded. The
gendarmes of FJssad Pasha, provision..,
aj governor o Albania' who defended
Kavaya, made their escape from the
town and put out into the Adriatic on
a ship.
Easad Pasha has been deprived of
his rank and removed from the Turk
ish army list for having taken up
head of the provisional government or
SUBMARINE POLICY
DISCUSSED IN SENATE.
Germany's Announced Intention of
Sinking Armed Ships Denounced.
Washington, Feb. 18. Germany's an
nounced Intention of destroying with
out worning armed merchant ships of
her enemies was scathingly, de
nounced in the senate today by repub
lican senators who declared that for
the United States to acquiesce in such
a practice would be humiliating and
a step toward war.
Senator -Lodge, ranking minority
member of the foreign relations com
mittee, started the discussion by de
livering a long prepared address, re
viewing international law relating to
the arming of merchantmen for de
fenseand declaring it was inconceiv
able tEat the United States at this step.
ne insisted, would be an unneutral act
and virtually would make the United
States an allyof the nation whose
commerce had been swept from the
seas. Senator Sterling followed by a
speecn assailing Germany and charg
ln gthat the American government in
its recent memorandum to the entente
allies suggesting the disarming of
merchantmen had put forward a dan
gerous principal and had encouraged if
not invited the action of Germany.
N. H. R. R.' APPEAL TO
RETAIN STEAMSHIP LINES
Method Disclosed Whereby Road Could
Outdo Independent Lines.
New York, Feb. 18. If the govern
ment ordered the New York, New Ha
ven and Hartford Railroad company
to get rid of its steamship lines, the
railroad would probably provide such
an adequate rail service for freight
that independent water lines could
not successfully compete, in the
opinion of J. H. Gardner, vice presi
dent of the New England Steamship
company, a New Haven subsidary. Mr.
Gardner was a witness at a hearing
began here today before Interstate
Commerce Commissioner Judson C.
Cleents, on the New Haven's applica
tion to retain control of Us steamship
lines under the Panama Canal act.
WHITE HOUSE RECEPTION
TO MEMBERS OF CONGRESS.
Was Attended Last Night by Nearly
3,000 Persons.
Washington, Feb. 18. The annual
White House reception to members of
the senate and house was attended to
night by nearly 8,000 persons. Speak
er Clerk of the house and Senator
Clarke, president pro tempore of the
senate led the line of those received by
the president and Mrs. Wilson. Only
one more White House function re
mains on the season's formal social
programme, which will be brought to
a close March 3 with a reception in
bonorof army and navy officers.
OBITUARY.
Dr. William H. Dana.
(Warren, Ohio, iFeto. 18. Dr. William
H. Dana, widely known as an au
thor, composer and teacher of music
and one of the founders of the National
Musicical association of the United
tates dleflLhai-e today asjfrd 72.
The Bulletin's Circulation in Norwich is Double That of Any
UNABL
E TO
Several Infantry Attacks
Casualties
MILES FROM ADRIATIC
Albania and joining the ranks of the
entente sJlies.
CALL FOR AVAILABLE
AMERICAN SECURITIES.
Issued By Reginald McKenna, British
Chancellor of Exchequer.
London, Feb. 18, 8.05 p. m. Tt is
officially announced that Reginald Mc
Kenna, chancellor of the exchequer,
has sent an appeal to banks through
out Great Britain asking that they
urge customers to offer all available
American securities to the treasury.
Mr. McKenna's statement follows:
"You are acquainted with the gov
ernment's scheme for acquiring Amer
ican dollar securities in order to maintain-
a stable exchange with the United
States. While expressing cordial
thanks to these banks which already
have urged customers holding suitable
securities to offer them to the treasury.
I invite all banks to take similar ac
tion forthwith and to impress upon
customers the paramount duty of as
sisting their country and her allies by
offering to the treasury such securities,
either for sale or as a deposit on loans,
whether or not they are included in
the published purchase lists of the
treasury.
"At an early 'date opportunity will
be afforded for . depositing securities,
n Joans upon terms already published.
Emphasize the fact that by offering
their dollar securities to the govern
ment at this Juncture they will be
performing a patriotic service in help
ing pay for munitions and other sup
plies bought in American and at the
same time obtain the full price for the
securities sold."
FRENCH MINISTRY
TRIUMPHS OVER SOCIALISTS.
Deputies Vote 394 to 169 Their Confi
dence in Ariatide Briand.
Paris, Feb. 18, 6.45 p. m. The min
istry of Aristide Briand was trium
phant in the chamber of deputies today
over the extreme socialists and the
radical socialists, who, after long prep
aration, sought to overthrow the gov
ernment on the question whether it
was not delegating too much authority
to the general staff.
The proposed attack on the ministry
had been common talk in parliament
on real differences over the conduct
of the war. M. Briand met his op
ponents by declining resolutely to have
their interpellation discussed in the
ary quarters for a month past. It was
based more on political rivalries than
chamber and demanding a vote of con
fidence in the government. This was
given 394 to 169. Not all those voting
against postponement of M. Ferry's
resolution may be considered as op
posed to the ministry. Rather they
believe that it is better to discuss
questions of policy publicly at all
times. .
PACIFIC MAIL RESCINDS
SALE OF STEAMSHIPS.
Will Hold Intact the Only Fleet of
American Owned Vessels on acific.
New York, Feb. 18. Stockholders of
the Pacific Mail Steamship company
at a special meeting here today unani
mously approved the action of the
board of directors in rescinding the
sale of the steamships, Peru, City of
Para, Newport, Aztec, San Juan, San
Jose and Pennsylvania fn w Tt
and company and associates. The ef-
ilccl ui me action win De to nold intact
the only fleet of American-owned ves
sels now available for service on the
Pacific.
GYMNASIUM OF DETROIT
UNIVERSITY BURNED.
Few Persons Were in the Building
All Escaped Safely.
Detroit, Mich., Feb. 18. The gym
nasium building of the Detroit Uni
versity school here was destroyed by
lire originating in a cloak room to
day. Members of two basketball teams
about to start a game, and a few pu
pils who board at the school were
the onlv persons in tna hnllrHnw m4 n
. ' ' nil
escaped safely. The mid-winter v-
taiiun iienuu wnicn Degan a rew days
ago had taken most of the students to
their homes. The loss is $100,000
HEARING ON KEATING
CHILD LABOR BILL.
Organizations Working in Behalf of
Children Before Senate Committee.
Washington, Feb. 18, Organization
"Working for child labor legislation were
given a hearing today by the senate
committee considering the Owen-Keating
child labor bill, already passed by
the house. Representatives of south
ern .state child labor committees and
others answered testimony given dur
ing the past few days by southern mill
owners who cocoa the bill. .
POPULATION 28,219
Cabled Paragraphs
Maurice Vignaux, BiMlardist, Dead.
New York, Feb. 18. Maurice Vig
naux, a French billiardist of interna
tional reputation, died Thursday at
Monte Carlo, according to a cable
message received here today. He had
been virtually an Invalid ten years. He
was bora in 1846. '
GUARDING K. OF C. GUESTS
FROM ANARCHIST ATTACK.
Extraordinary Precautions Taken at
Ball at Madison Square Garden.
New York, Feb. 18. Extraordinary
precautions were taken by the police
tonight to protect guests at the
Knights of Columbus ball at Madison
Square Garden - from possible attack
by anarchists. Letters purporting to
have been written by Jean Crones, the
fugitive. Chicago chef, suspected of
having poisoned the food served at
the banquet in honor of Archbishop
Mendelein, have contained threats
which led to the fear that some at
tempt might be made upon the lives of
those who attended the dance.
More than three score officers in
plain clothes mingled with the guests.
Two men were stationed on each fire
escape on the btiildings and each door
carefully guarded. Detectives worked
as cook's, waiters and dish washers to
spy o nthe other workers. Inspector
Gray, of the detective bureau was
present in person.
Guards also were thrown around po
lice headquarters in the hope that
Crpnes might make another of the vis
its boasted about by the letters signed
with his name. Detectives secreted
themselves in darkened doorways
across the streets on all sides of the
building. Others scrutinized care
fully every person who approached.
CHARGES AGAINST THE
ARMY AVIATION SERVICE
Made Before Senate Military Commit
tee by Senator Robinson.
Washington, Feb. 18. Sensational
charges against the army aviation ser
vice, with a demand for immediate in
vestigation by congress were made to
day before the senate military commit
tee by Senator Robinson of Arkansas.
He declared that the service was "con
temtibly inefficient" and that its head.
Lieutenant Colonel Samuel Reber, not
only was making no effort to improve
it, but deliberately was preventing the
facts from reaching his superiors.
The senator appeared before the
committee with a mass of data, includ
ing photographic copies of letters
which he said should be exchanged be
tween Colonel Reber and Captain Ar
thur S. Cowan, commanding the tvia
tion station at San Diego. At least
part of this evidence was produced
before the court martial at San Fran
cisco which recently tried Lieutenant
Colonel Lewis E. Goodier, advocate
general of the western division, ac
cused of improperly altering certain
charges filed by other officers against
Captain Cowan. The findings of this
court now. are in the hands of a spe
cial conrmittee of army officers ap
pointed bj' the acting secretary of war
to make a report to President Wilson.
RIGHT OF MERCHANT
SHIPS TO CARRY ARMAMENT
American Diplomats Abroad Notified
United States Sanctions It.
Washington, Feb. -8. All American
diplomatic and consular officials
abroad have been notified in a corcu
lar communication fro the state de
partment that the position of the Unit
ed States is that merchant ships have
a right to carry defensive armament
This move which became known to
day, is the first formal announcement
that the United States does not accept
as legal the announced intention of
Germany and Austria to sink armed
merchant ships without warning after
February 29 as coming within interna
tional law.
SWEDISH SUBJECTS NOT TO
TRAVEL ON ARMED SHIPS.
In Consequence of Intention of Teu
tons o Sink Such Ships.
Washington, Feb. 18. Sweden has
informally advised the state depart
ment in consequence of the announced
intention of Germany and Austria to
sink armed merchantmen without
warning after February 29, it will no
tify its nationals not to travel on
such ships.
It was explained at the legation of
Sweden here that there would be no
general warning but that all SweOish
consuls and legations throughout the
world have been instructed to warn
their subjects whenever it was known
that they contemplated taking pass
age on armed ships of the allies.
TO MOBILIZE HOSPITAL
EMERGENCY SUPPLIES.
Col. J. R. Kean of Medical Corps De
tailed by War Department.
Washington. Feb. IS. Colonel Jef
ferson Randolph Kean. of the medical
corps, today was detailed temporarily
by the ware department to cooperate
with the American Red Cross in or
ganizing field, hospital and supply re
of emergency. An effort will be made
sources for quick mobilization in case
to pass through congress a bill au
thorizing the permanent detail of an
officer for such work.
COPPER COMPANIES EARN
MORE THAN $11,000,000
Quarterly Reports of Utah, Chino and
Ray Copper Companies.
Colorado Springs, Colo., Feb. 18.
Net earnings of more than Jll.OOn-.aOO
for the last three months of IMS tre
shown by the quarterly reports of the
Utah Copper company, the Chino Cop
per company and the Ray Consoli
dated Copper company, issued here to
day. Officers of Nurserymen's Association.
Hartford, Conn.. Feb. 18. The Con
necticut (Nurserymen's association. In
annual session here today, elected the
following officers: President, W. E.
Campbell, New Haven; vice president,
E. !L. Baker. Cheshire; secretary, F. L.
Thomas, Meriden; treasurer, W. W.
Hunt, Hartford.
Offered Post of Ambassador to Russia.
Washington, Feb. 18. DavM R
Francis, of St. LouIb, secretary of the
interior in uieveiamrs cabinet, and
former governor of Missouri, has been
offered the post of ambassador to Rus
sia, to succeed George T. Marye. Mr.
Francis has not replied, but President
Wilson is understod to have urged him
NORWICH, CONN., SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 19, 1916
Other Paper, and Its
Nicaraguan Treaty
Ratified by Senate
CANAL JTE AND NAVAL BASE
ta OR $3,000,000
. V
VOTE $ OD 55 TO 18
Included an, ndment Designed to
Placate Pro . of Costa Rica, Sal-
i
vador and H ,-uras Brandegee and
McLean Joined With the Adminis
.tration Forces.
Washington, Feb 18. The senate
late today by a vote of 65 to 18 rati
fied the long-pending and persistently
opposed Nicaraguan treaty, whereby
the United States would acquire a
ninety-nine year option on the Nica
raguan canal route and a naval base
Demonstration of
Nothing proves the statement that adrertising pays like an act
ual test of it and this had a pretty good demonstration this week on
the occasion of the second Dollar day. That the same degree of suc
cess could have been obtained without the publicity which was given
to it through advertising no one would attempt to claim but what ad
vertising will do on one special day it will do every day in the year,
and that Is to keep the people who do the buying informed as to
where they can get their wants filled to the best advantage.
Everyone who hopes to do business successfully must give his
enterprise due publicity through the newspaper, and the best medium
which he can employ is the one which goes into the homes and which
.thoroughly covers the whole field for which this is the trading center.
Such is the service which is furnished every weekday morning by
The Bulletin, and it is the service which means much to the readers
as well as to the advertisers. If it pays on special occasions it does
likewise at other times.
In the past week the following matter has appeared in its col
umns :
Bulletin Telegraph Local General Total
Saturday, Feb. 12.. 100 166 1079 1345
Monday, Feb. 14.. 88 136 275 499
Tuesday, Feb. 15.. 116 144 142 ' 402
Wednesday, Feb. 16.. Ill 161 208 480
Thursday, Feb. 17.. 83 .,J.27.. .... .204 .414,
Friday, Feb. 18.. 98 136 145 379
Totals .
.. . 596
in the Gulf of Fonseca for $3,000,000.
Included in the raification resolution
was a provision declaring that the
United States in obtaining the naval
base does not intend to violate any ex
isting rights in the Fonseca Gulf of
Costa Rica, Honduras and Salvador,
which had protested against the pro
posed acquirement.
Five demoratic senators voted
against the treaty. They were Cham
berlain, Martine, Clarke of Arkansas,
Thomas and Vardaman. Republicans
Borah, Clapp, Cummins, Gronna, Jones,
who voted against ratification were
Kenyon, LaFollette. McCumber, Nel
son, Norris, Smith of Michigan, Smoot
and Warren. Fifteen republican sena
tors joined the administration forces
in support of the treaty. They were
Brandegee, Coll, Dillingham, Dupont,
Fall, Gallinger, Harding, Lippitt,
Lodge, McLean, Page, Poindexter,
Sutherland, Wadsworth and Weeks.
Immediately after the senate had
voted. Senor Chammorro, he Nica
raguan minister, said he would at once
communicate with his government and
that he expected ratification of the
convention by his government would
soon follow and exchanges made to
put the treaty In force.
CATHOLIC CHURCH SPENT
NO MONEY FOR BANQUET
Denial of Crones' Statement That the
Church Spent $15 a Plate.
Chicago, Feb. 18. Denial that the
Catholic church here spent any money
for the banquet to Archbishop Mun
delin, which the poisoner, Jean
Crones, charged was extravagant, was
made tonight by the .Right Rej, Fran
cis C. Kelley, D. D., president of the
Catholic Church Extension Society,
under whose auspices the banquet was
given. Crones letter asserted that
the church spent $15 per plate and In
cluded Beluga Caviar and champagne
in the menu.
"Neither the Catholic church nor the
Catholic church Extension Society
paid one penny out of its fund for
the banquet to Archbishop Mnudelein,
Rev. Kelley said in a formal stae
ment "The banquet was given by a
few gentlemen of Chicago who are in
terested in the society and for the
sole purpose of having the archbishop
meet the city's leading business and
professional men but chiefly the em
ployers of labor. The society's name
was used only because the donors, who
are mostly life members, so desired;
and the officials of the society acqui
esced and took charge of the-banquet
arrangements. The banquet did not
cost $15 a plate, nor one-third of that
amount.
"Crone's act did more to Injure his
fellow chofs and waiters than anyone
else. He did a service to the church
by calling the attention of public men
to the danger of granting unbridled
license to calumny and abuse of pub
lic agents for good. As many non
Catholics as Catholics would have
been killed had the plot succeeded."
ASQUITH TO ASK TWO
BILLION MORE FOR WAR
.
New Vote of Credit to Come Before
British Parliament Monday
London, Feb. 18. New votes of
credit amounting approximately $2,
000,000,000 will be asked by Premier
Asquith of the House of Commons on
oMnday.
The new vote will bring' trp the total
at war appropriations to $10,810,000,000.
Total Circulation is the Largest in Connecticut in
Lie Passed in
Okiahoma House
ROW PRECIPITATED BY CHARGES
OF CORRUPTION
PERSONAL ENCOUNTERS
Chairman of the Republican State
Central Committee Was Knocked
Down and Rendered Unconscious
During the Melee Election Law
Caused Disturbance.
Oklahoma City, Okla., Feb. 18. Tu
multuous scenes occurred in the Okla
homa legislature late today while the
members were voting on a section of
an election law designed to take the
place of the famous grandfather law"
which recently waa declared unconsti-
What it Will Do
870 2073 3519
tutional by the United States supreme
court because in effect It dismran-
chised the negro population of the
state.
Partisan Feeling Caused Disorder.
Partisan feeling over the new meas
ure finally culminated in disorder pre
cipitated by charges of corruption and
the passing or the he between mem
bers, during which ink bottles and
paper weights were used as weapons.
A serious affray seemed inevitable as
democrats massed and advanced tow
ard the republicans and socialists.
Man Knocked Senseless.
Arthur H. Geissler, chairman of the
republican state central committee,
was knocked down and rendered un
conscious by Representative Lorise
Bryant of Big Heart, Osage county.
The proposed law is the product of a
democratic caucus. It had passed the
senate and was up for final passage
in the house late today with republican
and socialist members offering vigor
ous opposition. Geissler was on the
lloor through the courtesy of a visit
or's permit issued him as republican
state chairman.
Representative Paul Nesbitt, demo
crat, of Pittsburgh county, had voted
in favor of the proposed law, and as he
announced his vote Representative
Sams, republican, taunted Nesbitt with
being "unfair' to republicans. Nes
bitt replied that he was raised in a
section where the republicans had
over-ridden him with corrupt practices
and that he had no desire to be fair
to republicans.
"They probably took you for the
crook that you are," shouted Sams.
"If you make that charge, you are a
liar," Nesbitt replied.
Sams arose in his seat and assuming
an attitude of defense shouted toward
the democratic side of the house:
"Come on!"
Ink Bottles and Paper Weights Thrown
In an instant every democrat and
republican member was on his feet. Ink
bottles and paper weights were thrown
back and forth. The democratic mem
bers advanced through the aisles tow
ard the republican members. Speaker
A. C. McCrorey left the chair and
rushed out of the legislative halls. The
democrats greatly outnumbered the
republican combatants and after a few
volleys of inkwells, paper weights and
books, the melee ended.
Representative Hensley, democrat,
went to the "side line" and was en
gaged in conversation with Geissler.
When Hensley walked away Bryant
stepped up to Geissler and demanded:
"What right have you to be talking
to a represenattive on the floor of the
house?"
Geissler replied: "Beg pardon, what
Is your name?"
Knocked to the Floor.
"Whereupon Bryant hit Geissler In
the face, according to witnesses,
knocking him to the floor, and render
ing him insensible for several minutes.
Bryant became lost In the crowd that
rushed around Geissler. No further
disturbances occurred.
President Wilson recently pardoned
two Oklahoma election officials con
victed for enforcing the "grandfather
test."
Two others are now on trial in fed
eral court at Guthrie.
Bill Passed the House.
The election bill passed the house 63
to 34. It is expected to be approved
by Governor Williams.
The registration section of the bill
was being voted on when the disorder
occurred. This also passed the house
50 to 34. No ballot was taken on the
emerseccy clause.
SIXTEEN
Condensed Telegrams
Butter cards will be issued In Berlin
on March 1.
Miss Jane Sields, aged 106, died at
her home in Brooklyn
Denmark has prohibited the export
of wood pulp and heavy paper.
The Long Island Railway is in the
market for 8,000 tons of steel rails.
Russia is reported to be inquiring
for 2,000,000 scythes in the Philadel
phia market.
Vernon Castle, the dancer, sailed
from New York to enlist in the Brit
ish army as an aviator.
Tom Longboat, the famous Indian
runner, enlisted in the Canadian army
at Brantford, Ontario.
A cablegram from Buenos Ay res an
nounces the birth of a son to Mr. and
Mrs. Kermit Roosevelt.
The Supreme Court of Illinois kill
ed the proposed $1,000,000 forest re
serve issue in Cook County.
San Bernardino , Cal., opened its
sixth national orange show. Fruit
worth $200,000 is on exhibition.
The coast guard cutter Onondaga
has picked up the disabled schooner
and is towing her into Baltimore.
King Ferdinand of Bulgaria has
abandoned his proposed visit to Ko
burg and is hurrying back to Sofia.
A resolution proposing a referendum
of woman suffrage was repected hy
the Virginia house of delegates, 52 to
40.
Henry Piano, well known musician,
who led the West Point band for many
years, died at Middletown, N. Y., aged
95.
Ralph E. Kalleck, a well known
Rockland, Me., young business man,
commited suicide in his stable by
shooting.
Twelve persons were hurt, one prob
ably fatally, when a runaway trolley
car turned over on a steep hill at
Syracuse.
Bringing 25 carloads of suffering
refugees, the tirst relief train from the
flooded districts in Louisiana arrived
at Natchez, Miss.
Directors of the United Furnace Co.
authorized the erection at Canton, O,
of a benzol pant to cost between $150,
000 and $200,000.
Crown Prince Frederick William of
Germany has been placed in command
of the German armies in Alsace-Lorraine
as well as those in the Argonne.
Joseph B. Collinson, prominent res
identof East- Orange, N. J., will start
serving a 30-day jail sentence imposed
for speeding his auto while intoxicat
ed. An increase of $8,500,000 to be divid
ed equally between preferred and com
mon has been authorized in the capi
tal stock of the United States Steel
Co.
Considerable damage has been caus
ed by a heavy gale that swept over
Great Britain, the North Sea and
Holland. Many fishing boats are miss
ing. William Lisberum, aged 78, one of
the best known German-Americans in
Conneticut, underwent amputation of
his right leg at the Bridgeport hos
pital. King Constantino is reported to have
transferred more than $75,000,000 of
Greek funds to New York as a pre
cautionary measure in case of war with
England.
Afire at sea, the Japanese steamship
Panama Maru, San Francisco for
Kobe, is sending out S. O. S . calls.
Several ships are speeding to her as
sistance. The general store of W. J. Kent &
Company at Bahrust, N. H., was de
stroyed by fire with an estimated loss
of $175,000. The origin was not de
termined. The superdreadnaught Pennsylvania,
the largest battleship yet built for the
American navy, left Newport News,
Va., for Rockland Me., for its official
speed and endurance tests.
E. G. Grace of Bethlehem, Pa., was
elected president of the Bethlehem
Steel Corporation at a meeting cf the
directors in New York. He succeeds in
tha position Charles M. Schwab.
Gov. Bilbo of Mississippi signed a
bill limiting the amount of liquor ary
one person may import Into the state
to one quart of whiskey, 24 pints of
beer or two quarts of light wine every
15 days.
Pope Benedict has composed a pray
er invoking divine protection for all
cities attacked by airships. All priests
in belligerent countries will be required
to recite the prayer during the cele
bration of mass.
President Wilson withdrew 434,000
acres of land from the Ozark national
forest in Arkansas forest settlement
by homesteaders. aMny tracts have
been settled but that still available will
be thrown open April 20.
Mrs. James Cuthbert escaped from
her home at Warwick,- R 1. which was
destroyed by fire after she had been
aroused by a dog that Jumped upon
her bed and barked violently as smoke
fille the room in which she was sleep
ing. The Center Labor Association is
issuing one million stamps, to be used
like Red Cross stamps, in a campaign
for the eight hour day The stamps
bear this inscription: "Kight hours'
work, eight hours' sleep, eight hours
free time."
FORECLOSURE OF A
$300,000 MORTGAGE
On Draycott Mills in New Hartford
Ordered First Monday in April.
Winsted, Conn., Feb. 18. Foreclosure
of the $300,000 mortgage before the
first Monday in April on the property
of the Draycott mills In New Hartford,
Canton and Barkhameted was ordered
today in the superior court by Judge
Curtis.- The International Cotton Mills
company holds the mortgage.
Judge Curtis also appointed A. W.
Mitchell of Woodbury as received of
the Connecticut Mills Supply company
at Woodbury.
PAGES.
Proportion to the City's Population
YOUTH SUBDUES ANSONIA STRIKERS
Joseph Grodol, Just Out of High School, Now Holds
Balance of Power
THREW I. W. W. ORGANIZER FROM PLATFORM
Speaking in Several Different Languages Grodol Told the
Men That Order Must be Preserved and Suggested That
a Committee be Named to Have Full Charge of the Dis
pute His Remarks Met With Instant Favor, and Grodol
Found Himself Master of the Situation Although Not
an Employe, the Young Man Was Made Chairman of the
Committee Which Will Present Demands to the Ameri
can Brass Company.
Ansonia, Conn., Feb. 18. Joseph
Grohol, a youth just out of high school,
who speaks seven languages passably
well, holds the balance of power to
night in the strike situation here,
where over 4,000 persons are idle as
the result of a strike of 2,500 em
ployes of various mills of the Ameri
can Brass company. Grohol was able
to weld men of eleven nationalities to
gether, and he was made chairman of
a committee which will officially pre
sent demands to company officials at a
meeting tomorrow afternoon.
Grohol is not an employe of the con
cern. He addressed a mass meeting
of the strikers tonight and impressed
upon them the necessity of peace and
order. As a resuj, the situation was
calm at a late hour and the force of
ninety extra policemen had nothing to
do. The manufacturers, during the
day, fearing possible violence, appeal
ed to Governor Holcomb for state
troops, but the governor decided that
the situation did not warrant such
action at present.
Brought Order Out of Chaos.
The bringing of order out of chaos,
and the assumption of leadership by
the youth, came about in a dramatic
manner. Grohol owns a hall which the
strikers desired to rent for a meeting.
He gave permission on condition that
there be no disorder. The meeting
was held and the hall was filled to
overflowing with men of many nation
alities. An unidentified man, who it is
said claimed to be an organize rof the
Industrial Workers of the World, be
gan to address the crowd. Many did
not understand him, and soon there
was a babel of tongues .andmgcjicP4-
Threw Speaker From Platform.
Grohol at this point mounted the
platform and ordered the speaker to
leave the hail, bailing to do so, Grohol
threw him from the platform and he
COMPARISON OF STRENGTH
OF VARIOUS NAVIES.
British Twice as Strong as Combined
Fleets of Germany and Austria.
Washington. Feb. 18. The British
navy today is approximately twice as
strong as the combined fleets of Ger
many and Austria, while the Teutonic
combination has Just about double the
sea fighting force of the United States,
according to information in the pose
session of the navy department. The
facts were d:iosed to the house naval
committee today by Captain Josiah
McKean of the staff of the chief of op
eritions. Captain McKean also said the French
navy was from 15 to 25 per cent,
stronger than the American. He ex
plained that these were rough esti
mates and that charts showing the
specific relations of the various navies
would be submitted later by Rear Ad
miral Benson, the chief of operations.
So far as is definitely known, the
captain told the committee the Jap
anese building programme adopted
several years ago, which will not be
complted for several years to come,
provides for a modern fleet of eight
dreadnoughts and eight battle chuis
ers. It was possible, he added, that
additional building was In progress as
all nations but the United States had
secret building policies. On the
strength of the known programr!V.
however. Captain McKean said, Jacan
would have but sixteen capital ships
when the seventeen American dread
noughts were built, building or author
ized, were commissioned.
The witness disagreed with Rear
Admiral Grant chief of submarines,
who preceded him. as to the advisa
bi'ity of abandoning the present small
er submarine types In favor of 800
ton boats. He believed thirty of the
larger boats should be built and at
tached to the fleets but that small sub
marines should operate from shore
bases and should at frequent Intervals
along the coasts.
GAINS IN ALL DEPARTMENTS
OF NEW HAVEN ROAD
For the First Time in Two Years Net
Income Shows a Surplus.
Boston, Feb. 18. Gains In all de
partments are shown in the report of
the New Tork, New Hfven and Hart
lord railroad for the last quarter of
1915 filo1 with the Massachusetts pub
lic service commission toay. For the
first time In two years net Income
shows a surplus. This amounts to
J1.210.S21. as compared with a deficit
of $272,675 in the last quarter of 1914.
The gross operating revenue was
$18,977,741. of which J9.529 070 was
from freight and J7,S02,575 from pass
enger earnings. The revenue for the
same period a year ago was $15780 -372.
The total operating expense was $12.
568.744 compared with $11,367 677 in
1914.
TEN TONS OF SMOKED
HERRING CONDEMNED
Because Fish Were Not Kept in Wire
Nets for 24 Hours.
Gloucester, Mass., Feb. 18. Ten tons
of smoked herring, shipped here from
Grand Hanan, X. B., were condemned
today by the federal authorities act
ing under the pure food law. The
government contended that the fish
were not kept In wire nets for the re
quired period of 24 hours.
PRICE TV0 CENTS
disappeared. Speaking in various lan
guages, Grohol then told the men that
peace must be preserved, and he sug
gested that a committee be named to
have full charge of the dispute.
Master of the Situation.
His remarks met with instant favor,
and Grohol suddenly found himself to.
be master of the situation. He urged
the men to get together and name a
committee of three from each nation
ality to meet with him. This was
done and the meeting adjourned. When
the committee met its personnel waa
found to be composed of the following
nationalities: Russian, Polish, Slavish,
Lithunian, Hungarian, Italian, Greek,
Asyrian, German, English and Ameri
can. ,
A Conference to Be Held.
From this committee a sub-committee
of seven was named. In the mean
time, officials of the company, hearing
for the first time that some responsible
party was in charge of the unusual
strike, sent word that It would be
pleased to hold a conference. This waa
arranged and the officials were ac
quainted with a rough draft of the
demands. The whole committee will
meet tomorrow morning and the sub
committee will then hold a conference
with the officials at 2 o'clock. Both
sides were hopeful tonight of a peace
able settlement.
The preliminary demands of the
men, as outlined tonight, will include
a 55 hour week, with 60 hours' pay;
time and one-half for overtime and
double time for Sundays and holidays.
The piece workers, who claim they
have never understood the method of
"payment, want the company to state
specifically how they are to be paid.
Certain changes in working conditions
are also desired.
The company has given assurance
that none of those on strike will be
discharged for striking.
ANOTHER ALLEGED PLOT
TO SMUGGLE RUBBER
Heinrich Bachmann, a Swiss, and Mrs.
Elsie Schroeder of Berlin Indicted .
New York, Feb. 18. Another alleged
plot to smuggle rubber from the
United States to Germany was reveal
ed here today when the federal grand
Jury returned indictments against
Heinrich Bachmann, a Swiss, and Mrs.
Elsie Schroeder, of Berlin.
According to Assistant United States
Attorney Content, the plan adopted
was similar to that attempted in a
previous case, in which four men and
a woman were convicted and fined. In
each case the actual smuggling was to
be done through shipping the rubber
as the woman's personal baggage In
order to evade the law requiring mer
chandise to appear on the ship's mani
fest. .
Bachmann and Mrs. Schroeder ar
rived here on Jan. 29. Bachmann, It Is
alleged, then purchased 550 pounds of
crude rubber and forty-two dozen
pairs of rubber gloves. The rubber
was packed In four trunks and Mrs.
Schroeder booked passage for Chris
tiania on the Oscar n., which sailed
yesterday. Customs inspectors held
up the trunks and refused to permit
Mrs. Schroeder or Bachmann to sail. .
DENIED WARRANT FOR
TRANSFER OF EASTLAND CASE
Ruling by Judge C. W. Sessions In.
District Court at Grand Rapids.
Grand Rapids, Mich, Feb. 18. Judg
C. W. Sessions, in district court today
denied the. aipplieation of the govern
ment for a -warrant of removal in th
Eastland case. His decision means
that the six Michigan men indicted la
connection with the Eastland disaster
will not have to go to Chicago for trial
and are freed as far ts the case In -federal
court is concerned. The de
fendants here are William H. Hull, St.
Joseph, president of the Chicago and
St. Joseph Steamship company;
George T. Arnold, St. Ignace. mana
ger of the company; Harry Pederson
and Joseph Erickson, of Beilan Har
bor, captain and chief engineer of the
Eastland; Robert Reid and Charles C
Eckliff. of Grand Haven, federal In
spector. The Eastland disaster occurred July
24 last. More than 800 persons, many
of them women and children, perished
when the vessel tipped at its dock at
a time when more than 2,000 excur
sionists were on board bound for a
picnic.
In denying the application for re
moval, judge Session emphatically
stated that the government failed to
make out a case against the six de
fendants. EXPLOSION IN PICRIC ACID
PLANT AT SYRACUSE
Four Persons Killed and at Least a '
Dozen Others Injured.
Syracuse, N. T., Feb. IS. Four per
sons were killed, at least a dozen oth
ers injured, some seriously, and heavy
property damage was caused by an
explosion tonieht in the Split Rock
plant of the Semet-Solvay company.
The plant, which was developed
since the outbreak of the European :
war, is one of the largest in the coun
try engaged in the manufacture of
picric acid, which is used in explo- .
sivea and synthetic dyes. It has been
heavily guarded day and night. The,
canse of the explosion has not been
ascertained. -J
If
t
