J$tm.
THE WEATHER FORECAST. "
Cold wave to-day; fair to-morrow and
warmer.
Highest temperature yesterday, 43; lowest, 30.
IT SHINES FOP, ALL
Detailed weather, mall nnd marine rcporJ)tin page
VOL. LXXXIII. NO. 172.
NEW YORK, SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 19, 1916. copyright. bV su pmuno and pum..,.,., amcm
PRICE
S?Bents
U BOAT POLICY
ASTEPTOWAR,
LODGE WARNS
.
Says Acquiescence in Sink
ing Armed Vessels Makes
V. S. German Ally.
WILSON'S FOREIGN
rOLICY IS ASSAILED
Senator Sterling Accuses
President of Hesitating
While World Wonders.
WamiinotoS. Feb. It. Bitter ctlll
eni of the foreign policy of the Wilson
Administration, with special reference
to attitude, lit the pending negotiations
Germany, was voiced In the Senate
ttf-d.iy by Ulge of Massachusetts and
Sterling of South Dakota In vigorous
perches Hi support of the Sterling reso
lution, which opposes acquiescence by
the flitted Stales In the notifications of
the Central Powers of their right to
tire nn armed merchantmen.
SciiJtor Stone of Missouri, chairman
tl the Foreign Relations Committee, us
ipukesman of the Administration, fol
toned Messrs. Lodge und Sterling, de-
Mrmc that the question of arming mer-
.Hitmen miui at least debatable. He
announced that early next week he would
make a more extended reply to Sena
tots Lodge und Sterling, and respond
o the attack made on the foreign policy
of the Administration by ex-Senator
IfOOi.
Taking up the notice of the Germanic
rovers that they would exercise the
rwrtt of tiling on armed merchantmen,
frn&tur Stirling charged the Adminis
tration "with debt) lug and hesitating
olillr the world was wondering what
course would be pursued."
Facias; Grave .trial.
lie declared that ncqulecencc In the
Oernian position "Involved consequence
nore ferlous than any that have yet
disturbed us, grave as some of them
tinve l.ecjh" He Insisted that It was
no renmte Inference that the prevent at
titude of the German Admiralty "was
nrouraged. If not invited by the memo
randa of the State Department to the
tilled nations."
ftnator Sterling made an extended
argument In support of the right of
merchantmen to arm for defensive pur
poses. The vice In the sugFestlon of the
Mate Department," remarked Senator
Sterling, "lies In this, that because the
deadly submarine Is not fetrong on de
fence you must therefore make the mer
chant still absolutely helpless ugalnst
Ui submarine."
Senator Lodge said that abandonment
by the United States at this time of the
principle that merchantmen may arm for
deietiie would be aii unneutral act and
( Hep toward war. He Insisted that
Tt.tan e by this country of Germany's
rrottoal would make the United States
' e all) of the belligerent whore mer
rlunt marine hud been swept from the
M.
"As late as the President's note of
May IS. IMS, signed by Mr. Bryan,"
Senator Lodge said, "tills Government
rrmznizeil that American citizens wero
"lilti their undisputed lights In taking
their ship- and In travelling wherever
t"ir Itgilimatu business calls them
si-mi in niKii seas.
Miiiul.l Keep Up Practice.
"Suh has been the practice of all
natii.tis in regard to the armed mer
cliiititm.ii. it seems incredible that
tlii po tinn should be in any way al
trnl now, or that our Government
should he ready to surrender the ques
tioned rights of Americans to travel or
alp mxi.N on a belligerent merchant
man, subject to an the rules which have
been established by the courts and bv
II International authorities for at tejast
tenty renturles."
Smator Lodged remarks had been
esrcfully prepared and were spoken with
treat deliberation. They were rloselv
followed ,y Senators on both sides of
the chamber
Senator Lodge In opening expressed
unmse at the report that the State
fp.inmrit was about to reverse the
traditional policy of the United States
In regard to armed merchantmen. He
OMPil Hut the practice of arming mer
chant ipmIk ilated back to the Middle
e Mien vessels plying upon the
"tditerraneati were armed. It was made
fornritilsnry in Kngland In the seven
ttith century,
"I'ml.r the conditions there grew up
a matter of course a body of law
defining ilvi character of the armed
nirchuntm.in." said Mr. I-odgc. 'The
Prrt,.e f amilng merchantmen went
i ltli tlurtuatlons and was so gen
erally recognized that In 1815 Chief
Jumir.. Marshall said In a case to which
I 'hall refer later und more fully! In
Wlnt of fact. It Is believed that a bel
uterent merchant vessel rarely sails
unarmed.' "
History of the Practice.
fnntlnulng his review of the hjstorjr
rihe practice Senator Lodge said:
I liac briefly described the condl
tiins. because n the centuries during
n ch they existed they gave rise to a
"My of International laws, In which the
ruls affertinit the status of the armed
"ifrrhanttneii wero probably better de
nned by Hi general usage and the
aK-nt of nations than In almost any
"partment of International jurlspru-
"It was established by practice and by
universal assent that a merchantman
jrmed only for defence did not thereby
ie her character, the character as a
merchantman, und that when war ax
Wed th armed merchantmen, both of
the belligerent and the neutral, retained
'I the privileges and rights which be
longed to the merchantman when en
ilrely unarmed.
"I shall not, however, enter upon a
neral survey of the codes or the opln
en and practices at other nations In
IBIS respect. I shall content myself with
s'Ung hb briefly as I can the course and
he. lotion of the United States upon
thli very Important matter. Titer 'was
lever any dwjbt us to the broad rule
a il ' n"f-'h"'ilman nimcd for defence
oia not lose her character as a peaceful
Wader,
The, only point to be determined was
Continue on Third Pug:
No Assurances Asked for 1
Armed Ships,
Also How Will U. S. Distinguish Between Defence and
Offence Guns British Captains Ordered to Sink
All German Submarines.
BERNSTORFF SUGGESTS
Washington-, Ken. 1S.--Cottnt von
BemMtorlT him outlined to the Hcrlln
Government whut ho believes should
b Iho Herman reply to the United
Slates on the latest turn In the l.usl
tanlit case In connection with the
Teutonic decree to sink untied mer
chantmen. The Ambassador's suggestions arc:
That the Uerlln Foreign Office In
struct lilm to trll Mr. Uinslng that
in the first t.ttsltutiU note, of May 13,
only ununited ships were referred to
with respect to assurances of l.er
mutiy's future conduct of her sub
marine wur.
That the tnemoratidutii from Iter
lln should Inquire of the United
States how It proHises to distinguish
between ships armed for defence
and those armed for offence.
That Germany offer proofs that
the Kritlsh Admiralty secretly or
dered merchnnt ship captains to fire
oH submarines on sight.
Bnemy freighters, the reply should
state, are under explicit Instruc
tion to attack submarines, so the
American contentions are even more
difficult to consider.
That the United States be urged
to advise Americans not to travel on
armed mcrchunt ships.
.MUM .Modify Decree.
If the United States Is able to
obtain solemn assurances from all the
Alliew that their passenger iwsels,
though armed, will not Are on
submarines that warn them to halt,
and would only use the guns If
the submarines continue tiring after the
orders to halt nro obeyed, then Germany
might consider a moilttlcatlon of Its new
decree directing submarines to lire with
out warning on all armed enemy pas
senger ships. In the meantime Germany
might consider a poMiKinement of the.
operation of Its new declaration for a
period of one miultli.
There Is every Indication that
the developments of the last few
days will make the. situation more
tense In Germany. This. It Is contended.
Is certain to he the case If tin, German
people, whether Justly or unjustly, get
the Impression that Die United States
has changed front after having obtained
Germany's concessions on the I.usitanU
case.
In connection with the order to sink
submarines. It was learned to-night,
FARRAR AND CARUSO;
IN A WAR OF WORDS'
Prima Donna and Tenor Clash
Off Stasre Over Secnc in
'Carmen.''
.1
A n!ar nlexus wallon delivered hy
Corinrn to Don Jotr Just as the Don was ,
uttering one of his renowned high notes
,iHn the nerformance of "Carmen" at ,
the Metropolitan Opera House on Thurs
day evening resulted in a wordy wrangle
between Mls Karr.tr and Mr. Caruso
behind the scenes after the performance,
according to news wnicn '"""
yesterday, and was the topic of lively
gossip In the theatre district last night,
At any rate, the wallop is suld to boat
least one of the incidents which led to
a verbal passage of arms between Mr. '
Caruso and Miss rat rar it l ie wings.
f. ..... i. .n .M.r 11,. H.-n in the evnsv
lb jm - .
camp when Mr. Caruso as on J9
throws Carmcti to tho ground and at-1
temptu to throttle her. In this case. It Is
rornns ,
rh.s is sumiosed to be ".. operaj
house and not a moving picture studio." ,
Mr. Caruso remarked to tho prima
d0.n,n.? n ?. h.e,,pnBn ' . i. r ni in
"Well." .Miss I-arrar reported o
have retorted, "If you Ion t like m)
Carmen that's not my fajtlt. Mr. Gattl (
can get another Carmen If he I kes.
-On tne contrary, my near ..ui. .mi-
gell. the leilOr 'S saill to nave iriuru
i . . , 1 1 i
"Mr. Gattl can get another Don joe."
Members of the company who had
overheard this conversation and wished
to prevent a repetition of the scene Just
enacted before the footlights, decided
that It was about time for them to in
terfere. They made their presence
known by discreet coughs and the two
principals, after glaring at each other
for a moment, passed on,
Mr. Caruso Is said lo have unburdened
himself of some of his feelings to his
bosom friends after the show. In
stronger language than he used to the
prima donna, but his exact words could
not be learned.
FRANCIS FOR MARYE'S POST.
Raselaa Ambassadorship Offered
fit. I.oala Man, la Report.
Wasiunuton, Fob, 1. It was re
ported here to-night that David R. Fran
cis of Bt. Uiuls. Secretary of the Interior
In Cleveland's Cabinet and former Gov
ernor of Missouri, has been offered the
post of Ambassador to Russia to succeed
Oeorge T. Marye.
Francis has not replied, according
to the report, but President Wilson Is
said to have urged htm to accept. Marye
has advised the State Department that
hla resign atlon has been mailed from
Petrograd.
H0U1TON SELECTED, IS REPORT.
Washlaattosi 1 1 rare President lias
Flckeel Ilia for War Post.
Washington, Feb. IS, It was re
ported to-night that President Wilson
has decided to appoint Secretary of
Agriculture Houston as Secretary of
War. The report was without official
canftrttMllon.
Berlin to Say
MEMO TO BERLIN
Count von Iternstorff has forwarded
to his Government n "op of the
following entry remained in the log of I
the British steiims'ilp Appam. which was
captund by the German raider Moewe
ami brought into Hampton Iloads by a
German prize crew:
The following additional confiden
tial Instructions have been Issued by
the Admiralty: "Any submarine
which approaches a merchant vessel
may be treated an hostile. If chased
the merchantman should first attempt
to escape. If It cannot escape It must
head straight for the submarine to
preent effective use of the sub
marine's guns."
This entry, the German Government
has been advised, was dated prior lo
tho Issuance of the latest secret In
structions of the British Admiralty, a
copy of which, taken from tho draft
obtained by German agents. b being
forwarded to the United States by Am
bassador Gerard at Berlin as one of the
upM-iidlces to the German submarine
declaration.
Moewe Fired On.
Count von Iternstorff lias forwarded to
Berlin a detailed account given by Lieut.
Berg, commander of the German prize
crew in charge of the Appam, of what
took place when the Moewe came up
with the Appam ami the Ulan McTav
Ish. In the case of the Appam, this ac
count sets forth, the British captain of
that essel first gav orders to his men
to fire on the Moewe, but quickly coun
termanded the onler when he saw that
the Moewe had a bigger and more for
midable armament.
In the case of the Clan McTavish.
however, the account (.hows that this
vessel opened tire on the Moewe the mo
incut she was warned to stop and 111
consequence was blown up with the loss
of nearly all those on board.
By way of conclusion the Ambassador
Is understood to lime advised his Gov
eminent to reply to the United Stales
by strongly urging that Americans lie
advised not to travel on armed merchant
vessels. Just as the subjects of Sweden
have been.
While there Is a feeling In some offi
cial quarters that the American Govern
ment may .vet Und It expedient to give
such warning to Americans, there Is no
evidence at present In that direction.
On the contrary, the bureau of Informa
tion of the Statu Department, following
the customary rule of advising American
diplomats and Consuls abroad of po
sitions taken by the State Department
from time to time In development of
the American foreign policy, has for
warded to these representatives a sum-
Coaflimcif on Second Pnffe.
RADIUM LURE COSTS
VIOLINIST $50,000
(init.-lloeky Victimized by
Swindler Willi Worthless
Mining Stock.
Publicity given to fake gambling
homes and "sick engineers" In mining
schemes did not prevent Gregor A. Galtz
Hocky, a violinist at the Plaza Hotel.
from dropping l.'.O.Ooft In return for 23,-
000 shares of worthless mining stock
ami he sat a dejected man In Judge
Rosalsky's part of General Sessions yes
terday when half a dozen men were
...
arraigned for sentence In the hope that
he might see the man who had so easily
induced him to part with his life savings.
The N InlinlMt has spent many sleenless
travelled several thousand
nihmn .11111 iraviuea seterai inousailfl
. --, ,
miles since he met in a brokerage oftlce I fronts, not clywiicre.
M West Forty-fourth street late In De- Three piwslble courses confront the
iv.llhcr dapper young man who said' 'V'1"""'? ,tl,lT' ,Th' "M?r """"' (,u-
the m irket it S- a share mid confided , 'n0'' ,.TC !"',"t I- fr Making
.,,, ,,,- ,.. rlltrr b)CK.u f 25.0..O . ,VB lrP r,Hze t u
smircH for 3.G0 a share. I 'ZZk Tnmill Zxy Tt
l,lBht "'o violinist became Inter-1 l,ln,lslie,l, but they argue that if sue-
ebte(, ,. ,,., ,llye(1 nilllkel and,0essful It probably would end the war.
hu B,m ,h, title to some stock. He sold Between these two extremes Is a third
,, Ind tlen nf went t0 ,hc savlnB9 ,,emenl wh,.h fllVor8 tllKlnB ,he n'J
hank and withdrew all of his money. On I sit e against Russia.
...M ... ..... he met h a old fr end Fr tz
Krelsler, tho violin virtuoso, and con
fided to him that he would soon be able
') lay away his violin and bow and live
In comfort,
Krelsler warned Galtz-Hocky lo be
careful and the Interview ended. The
victim did not have enough money by
IT.oiiO to buy the 25,000 shares, of stock,
so ho negotiated a loan of 17,000 with
the Union Trust Company, Then Clifton
and Galtz-Mooky went over to Philadel
phia to meet Thomas Ketiney, or Brad-
i. -. - IlJ ...l.. .a
' .. "'r "'fu t-""""
buy all of the stock.
lilts iuir Silteu ovei inglll kiicio nu
In the evening attended it performance
of "The Hubble." The following day
It was arranged that the stock should be
expressed to the home office In Denver
lo be properly transferred and then "ho
deal would be consummated. After a
few days the bundle of stock was re
turned as not having been called for and
that was the last the complainant saw
of tho men In the case. He had parted
with his money and had a bundle of
worthless paper.
After looking the Thompson-Glroux
band over Galts-Hocky sadly shook hla
head of long hair und said that none
of the men he had seen had swindled
him. He did leurn that Kenney or
Bradley was a notorious mining swin
dler. Detectives are looking for him.
Thompson, who pleaded guilty to
stealing 165,000 from Henry Gallant, a
Ht touts pawnbroker, was sent to Hlng
Sing yesterday for live years. He has
been convicted three times, louls Weiss,
who shared well in the scheme, got two
years and James, Morris, 70 years old,
wns let oft with a suspended sentence,
George Pohtman and Sam Glroux went
to the penitentiary, where they may be
kept for three years.
rtSoUDA OAHOMNA HRNORTS.
four train. Hot qulpmtnt. Hhort Line,
IncjHeaboard Air Use Rjr Hit B'way,
HARDEN VOICES NEW '
mTinn i m tt i it n
THREAT AGAINST U.S.
Noted Writer Says tiermany
Is Heady for Another Cam
paiffti of "Frljrht fulness.'
WAHXIXO FOR ALLIES j
I Now or Never Is Time lo Make!
reiu'c. Iiet'lnrcs Editor of
Znliiinft."
I.OMMN, I'eb. IS. The London 7'liPifs" ircwl Vnlilf fleqwicA lo Tbr ?t.
publishes .1 tt.inslatlon of part of an ar-' ,e..M.o... l-b. . . - rite Turkish army
tlcb Irt Maximilian Harden In Ids which defended lirzerum l In wild
eltly pajie ifc utaiit. The. German flight In varlou- directions, with tho
publicist warm! tho Atlle. , parti, ul.tr!)' Russians hot on their heels, mowing
Gteat Britain, thai If they .eTiuo "o dW- down any troops that turn for resist
cuss peace teriini now Germany w.l! be ' mice ami capturing the remainder,
compelled to carry on the w.-tr In future The booty taken with the fall of the
with "every possible means at If-r ills-lgieat Armenian fortress Is enormous,
posal" and that "no stars and Httlpex I The Turks left their entire heavy ar
vv 111 protect a ship In the nar .one." . tlllery behind. Thus far the lctors
lx months ago, Maiden armies. Gei t.ivi c.ouutcd 2dt) heavy guns. Un
many mlg-'at have been content with' deterred by a severe snowstorm Grand
holding what she had conquered and tuke Nicholas's troops continue In their
tiialntaluitiL- a defensive position. The
factor that now conqs'ls her to icsume
and continue the offensive, lie explains. Is
lirlnclpally the danger of the Allies "spy
ing out every feature of our sjstem.
military and economic." At present, he
asserts. Germany Is not suffering want,
but 'the danger of real want may creep
utwn us If we let It" He continues;
"A third harvift would be mine dif
ficult than the second, It would be diffi
cult to make good our supplier, not of
tr.en, but of Inqiortain raw materlils. and
our expenditure of money would Increase
Immoderately.
"After three years of blockade others
would occupy those places In the markets
from which It seems Impossible that Ger
man trade should be expelled. Dare we
wait" No!
Harden warns the Allies that '-.here li
still a short space of time In which Ger
many might come to tenne. and t tat
her enemies might without lo. of tionor j
still make a decent and, enduring pence."
A little disarmament, a little Inter
national sodallim anil a proposal to kio1
war expenses," Harden says, are .sug
gested as having to be included In the
peace terms. "If these proposals are!
refued," he declares. "Germany will
have paid the laM debt she owed the
world anil humanity and can proceed to
Is" more frightful than ever with com
plete Indifference i the view of neu-l
trals, especially the United States. !
"If 4here must lie death we will de-,
termlne the liour. If a dispute with the
United States can be covered over with
anv resneetahle formula there need 1m-'
no splitting of hairs." Otherwise, how-1
ever, he asserts. Germanv. "not tired, not I
ufriad." will have to "wound Great Brit-
alii's heart with submarines ami air-
,raft ..
PARIS HKARS OF A ill'
-fril A V IL UTtTJ
Crr.A.i.4A I hAL i'j Ur r fil
Pari Hears KnUcr Is WIMIiik to
t'eilr Part of Lorraine.
Paris, I'eb
v There is teaMin to
believe tint Germany
has made new
mu nniiKiM-.ts tn the ll.itetlte 11leM.
The rei-irt Is that Germany has declared
its win nvm-fs to reestal.llsti cenerallv
the status before the war, to cede part
of Lorraine to l-Vanoe and gu.uaiitee
autonomy for Aleaee. A violent -battle 1 r.iglnv west of
It Is understood that the proposals I Urzeruui. according to a Hudupest des
were aciinpanled with the threat that patch. Another report to-day w.m that
Germany would again attempt to crush Kalbuit, the ancient city on the road
Prance If the terms were refused. It Is from Urzerum to Trcblzond, had been
probable that these proposals were ic-j captured by the Russians,
jeeted by the Allies. The Russians, according to Petrograd
Thete Is a general feeling It. Kurope ' advices, are pushing on toward the
that Germany desires peace. Mess tges ! Pontine Mountain. This would Imll
from Switzerland say everyone In that ' cue that the main Russian force is
neutral State is convinced that this ' bent upon pushing Its drive northwct-
feeling Is Justllied. Swiss military ex
perls believe there Is grave dissension In
,1... r'.r,,,,,, Caliaftit s!t-.n ... I I. ,
course the Central Pnweis should pur- rum tied to the west
sue. Trooi have been transferred from While the general strategy of the Cm
one front lo another quite aimlessly and casus operations Is directed by Grand
preparations have In en made for nt-
tacKs tnat never were ueiiveteii, ,n giv-
Indication of restless confusion. The
W!,,r,wl" " "V"1,1.' ',""? to Swiss
., ., , ... on l ie French and l!iil.in
INTELLECT BEST AT 32 FAH
Nacres Depends on Cllmnt
Dr. Austin OMIalle).
Pll fl.Al.Kl.l'lllA. Veh. 1N Pllmu.j. .....
, . - -
ems and determine the success, asslml -
URIon and progres-of our foMer children,
mid Americanization i In, i inu,...
this vital and controlling factor In our
...... ..... .. , "
linn iii.i uii.i i-.niuuiiinK llicior 111 Otlr
national melting tan Is without nvutl
. .. ... "... ' .. . . T
I acconiuiK to a paper lean acre to-night
by Dr. Austin O'Mulley. The t.liyslclan
also declared that no white man could
si.ceee.l helrilv stnlltli Pnrn nu u,,.l
succeed below South Carolina, and that
parallels of latitude were the natuial
lines of demarcation between success and
failure for tho races that come to the
United States to be adopted as citizens.
Dr. O'Mnllcy first defined climate In
Its scientific, terms und then traced
step by step lis Influence, snnd or
deleterious, on the mass of the people
and the racial elements that make up
our nation.
He was speclllv In his application of
climate to the Individual, and said that
mental activity wan best at a tempera
ture of SO degrees alsive zero.
COLD WAVE HERE TO-DAY.
Mercury Takes a (lnlck c'all its
SUIT Wind lll.itta.
The national weather- prophets revised
their forecast of yesterday morning, In
which they suspected that u snowstorm
was Impending, and last night an -
nounced that this day would be fair.
"with a cold wave."
The heralded frigidity had set In ut
10 o'clock last night, when the teniMTa.
lure, which hud lieeti up at tn about
Ave hours earlier, dropped In no, It
may go down to 'ii or less before dawn
to-day.
CAUCASUS DEFEAT
a nAiim TV fin n 1 i n m
A ROUT, RUSSIA SAYS
I'etrofrrad Official Statement
Asserts Turkish Army Wns
('111 to Pll't'CS.
FORTS ARK FILL OF DEAD
Fleeinu Regiments Annllil-
luted or Captured by the
.Muscovites.
onriisu
Igh, ng has begun ill the costal
legion, where Russian warships are co
operating west of Trcblzond, the next
Russian objective.
I'orU Pull nf Turkish Dead
Vne War Office communication.
Issued to-da), sa s .
' The coinplt'icucsa of the defeat bus-
, tallied by the Turk and the terrible
losses tlity sulfered In the IJrzerum
llgbtltis' are becoming more and more
char.
Tlie foils In the fortress Itself and
In the surrounding country are full of
Turkish dad.
The icmuants of tne Turkish army
ch.isfd by our troops are Itcelng In dl-
order In different directions. A severe
snows! oiin has fulled to cool the
ardor of our men in pursuit, who are
cloi. on the heels of the enemy and
are iinnlliil.tting them or talking
prisoners at the tail ends of Turkish
columns
We captured at Krzerum the entire
fortress artillery and a large part of
the Turkish field artillery Up to the
present we have counted L'OO guns,
We have taken a huge quantity of ar
tillery ammunition and nrm, several
dozen motor cars, wireless apparatus
and a pontoon park.
The troops of the Caucasus army
have suffered but slight looses and
ur re-iri v for rrsah ..vv.li .
. , 1 , , . ,
A sem.n(Tlclal statement issued In
exrograu anus tne following Informa-
. . .
I he exact number of Turkish troops.
c,;,l,tur'"1 "t Lri-rum Is not known, but I
,,,r ''r"''te'; Part of the u-arrlson got
away, as the fortress was not Invested
but was .Hirleil by assault. The nutu-
ber of guns captured reaches l.MOu. I
ally's defensive works were or-
KHIlli;eo l') ill.- vn-liuail i-oilllll.l nuer, I w
selt. atid are spoken of as admirable and
as einbod) lug all the resources of mod-
ern artillery and engineering.
"The late.t advliej indicate that the1
heav) Turkish reenforcemeiits which had
Wn hastening to the aid of Urzertim
',rrlvc ... .
lieiore toe evacuaxion uuras merci-
'fesly massacred thousands of Armen-j
.'t,.
Violent llntlte Itnuing.
waul, with Trcblzond as the goal. Ilal
hurt Is forty miles, Treblzond 12,". miles,
from Krzerum. The defenders of Krze-
Duke Nicholas, tho actual operations
against Krzerum were leu ny ms rignt
. hand man. Gen. Yudenltch. who lias been
In command In the ngntlng in that thea -
., f,.. t in, vei.r Mneh nr.. se
,
iH sven n Petrograd to the Grand
poke's fhlef nf Staff. Gen. Januschkc -
vltch.
. etT.t ,i,t the Russians attacking Krze-
atlva "
'', T , -0.1 n 5 fJl. "J
They took
" ' 't,. iiussl'iiis have also gained a sue-
erJ UthJ ..'i, , border"
"n , 1 ,S iSfh,! corre-
r',p '''"' .'",per s 1 t,rT'i l0rrc-
1 . V .',., . ,i
i 11 ""
'evacuate Ilizerum was taken by the
V AU ' Urns seTHI Ulijn hkd. ; lie um m , " , , ...lti eomilili.re.l In liko
FAH- the garrison left and tho remaining rearl Jhw " '
I guard was comparatively small. Never- "ver In bulk a Ian.. I ortl or tl . v rl
e, says VliVless. the Russian task was terribly " -V""1. ' " ? K
Turks several days ago. The bulk of.
dltllcult. Gen, Yudenltch's strategy
would have been even more brilliant If
pi. nm rorceu ine garrison in reure un-
, der u,, pressure of dispositions t.j
strong to be resisted, As It was, he
i . ' " . .
I... had forced the garrison to retire un-
arove ii oui i.j nam iikoiiiim.
Mllltarv observers agree that the fall
-r .1.. i... ... i i ..
l Lie on....... r. ,.. ,.uo.i ..-
illlVe a tremendous military and moral
1 -it... i., .h. m...i .th.,. ,11 11 in
; coln,,e Turtle 't0 Vevlse tluir entire
1 ...
campaign In Asia, particularly In Persia
Slid Mesopotamia.
The .IfonH.ip Po.l'.. Petrojrad cone-
spondent describes the capture of Urze-
rum as "the flrM stage of the Russian
march lo Constantinople, which Is un-1
likely In be effectively oiniosed anywhere
eastward of Siva.-." .
The strategic value of the capture of
Krzerum. accoidlug to this coriespoiidcnl.
lies ill tlin fact that the Torco.l Icrni.in
armies must concentrate In Asia Minor 1 American moving picture films have
lo safeguard Coiisluutlnnplr I cabled to their principals suggesting that
till amounts received here, minus ex
KlTect In Hulknna. pensrs, he invested ill Kxchequi.-r lion, Is
The moral effect of the Russian vlc-1'T th war loan, luid "mllded , the
lory Is already becoming evident In the1 n Knglaitd until td. months after
im.. nii,,. ii . .,m .,.... ..i I the end of the war.
Greece und Rumania. The latter cnutJ
. The latter com.-
Iio particularly Im-
of the Czar's.Cau -
bound to an a lunir
try Is expected to bo
pressed by the feat
casus army, which Is bound to go a long
way toward discrediting the pro-German
propaganda's keynote that the Allies,
. nnd especially Russia, "are beaten."
! Buoharest despatches to-day state that
I Rumanian otliclal circles friendly to the
Knleiile expect a coiicentrallon of Bus-
. slan Hoops on the Hessariiblnn frontier
In March to enable Rumania to transfer1
troops to the Itiilgaiinii frontier, where
Cunllnacd tm Third I'agt.
Colonel Will
Root Announces Barnes
Or Any Other Man Nominated in Chicago, He Adds
Perkins Emphatic in Prediction That Steafi
Roller Scores of 1912 Must Be Paid.
T. R. WORKING FOR
Two predictions were offered yester- evltably accept the choice of the Re
day as to Col. Theodore Roosevelt's ' publican national convention,
nrohnhli, ntiiina. .... .... t...i.H...... I he Barnes opinion, indeed, that
prooawe attitude toward the Republican ColollM ,M KraVey embarrassed over
national convention's selection for l'rcsl- the too Impetuous championship of his
dent. j
One. presemed bv the man who Is i
..., , . ' . '
popuiarl) supposed to know less about
Col. Jlooscvclt'si Intentions than any I
other tinman being W nm Barnes ,
was that tl... Colonel wit r, viibii
was mat the Colonel will support Lllhu .
Root or any other nominee of the con-1
vrntlon. 1
Th mt, a, n, f, .... ,u. ,.,., 1
The other, put forward by the man
who Is popularly supinsed to have i
key to thu Colonel's mental processes I
George W. I'crklns-was that no man.
who had a hand In depriving Col. Rooms-I
velt of the Republican Presidential .
nomination In IS12 has a ghost ot a
....... r i. - ... .
chance of Progressive support.
Politicians were simply amazed at the j
contradiction Involved In these analyses
of a troubled situation. Of all the
political news growing out of or follow- I party, financial backer of the party and
i Ing after the Republican State conven-1 Col. Roosevelt's particular political eon
n. .h.. .,.m.ir.n ..r .... u.s.,.u .i.... tldant. Here Is what Mr. Perkins said :
with the Perkins view proved lo b the
most startling
No moie authoritative statement could '
Ik- desired than that which presented the
optimistic theories of M. Barnes us -e-
gards the Colonel's forthcoming attl-
tude and postponed ambition. The ,
statement Is otTered In this connection
tltat tbe Colonel actually sent Gen. i
le-onard Wood and Robert T. Lincoln ,
support Certain Interesting details as
to this missionary excursion are omitted,
such as the year or month In which
Gen. Wood and Mr. Lincoln went from
.... I, ......I .. i. Tl..... .....I ,.Kj, M.
y - t'
uvwu. w....
Support for Chicago .omlnee.
The statement as to Mr. Hanies'g be
llefs sa)s also that Col. Roosevelt sent
personal representatives to other pro- tne two conventions that are to meet in
speetlve candidates Mr. McCall of Chicago In June less favorable than be
Massachusetts, Mr. Burton of Ohio, Mr. fore. We Progressives meant what we
Knox of Pennsylvania were mentioned said In our Chicago statement every
and gave to every one an assurance of ( tingle word of it and if the big, broad,
Roosevelt backing In tne event that ' p itrlotlc thing Is not done at Chicago
I "' ,mc ol "im was naineu at win
cago.
But Mr. Barnes's estimate of the
.,.....i,i... i .ui,,vv u-nisr ..v-i.
,hKn , i,,,,,, by xUr ai,OVe. He
thinks that Col. lUnisevelt would not
ot,iy BUppr, any candidate named at
Chicago, but would come out to-day for
,hat candidate If It were possible to
identify hltn. That's the only trouble.
Nobod.v can even make a guess at pres-
ent ('itherwlse. according to the Barnes
opinion, the Colonel wuuld be In line
w lln 1110 railK .lull li:e ill llie 1101 11,11 1...
Mr. Harries examines the logic of the
situation and arrives at the coniluslon
that a party split In the campaign of
RMS Is as utterly Illogical as a part)
split In the campaign of I'.'U was ut
terly logical. He rinds that there can
. :u.u . ...L.i.'
vice, rtuu 111..1 01. i,w-c o.
ENGLAND NOW CALLING
FOR AMERICAN SHARES
lloldei' I'med to Sell or Ie
posit on Loan l'inrhae
Humor Is Denied.
fprmt Cahlr trtpatel lo Tnr Si s
LilNlH.N, I'eb. 1 V The oltlclal p! ess
lmri-nu announced to-day that Reginald
McKeiina. Chancellor of the Uxchequer,
. rttt-n letters inviting all the bank
, urKng their .Mitomers to ,,ftc-i
I :. .
inetr American .'ruiuiip u. no- i ii-j.s-
rv for or deposit on loan whether
j ' , .h(1.. Hre i,u.jUd,.i In the Treas.
..... miri.hase lists.
ll'hc'1'
He.patchis to the effee, tha, ., ,' Mot-
gan went to I.ndon for the purpos,. of
" mr (hp
entire holdings of American securities at
',rlo 10 "" l','nt- Mow ,hr nlllnc
price on the New Vork Stock Uxch.inge
,'0 Hild to be absolutely without fmin-
datlon. A member of J. P. Morgan ft
ia..i
the following statement
There Is no truth In the report that
mobilized In Imudi.n,'
" ,.:BV;"",..
tallied tne ie,.o. .i.. ..... ...... sn .....
- ,u-..,.... ..... .
warned Ch..ncellor McKeiui. against
dumping more than half a billion do.
i .enrili of American securities, as
lars worth of American securllles, as
apparently contemplated in the British
nluu. mi the American market.
. .... i, .......
' I "as ponnr. ..m ..j ... ...s.i
clal men that Wa'l Street had been
was t.oluteil oui ny iiittlsn titiaii
Borged with American securities from
.........I .em- since the lieu I till 1 11 xr of Hie
abroad eve,- since the beglm Ing of the
't ami that, although fu ther qua,,.
titles could be iibiorbed w lib n re iron
Ihey could not be assimilated In great
. volume at the present time.
Importers of I. S. I'llm Would
Invest In Hellish lloii.l..
. . .
i .'Pfcwi lame nfpi" in ihisi.
I l.iiMio.s. Feb.
IS, - The llinsirters of
They
' . , d would keep BrUlT
, ch'nige and would Ktrp tiriiisii lapiini
here,
They argue thai this plan would over
stand by them. Will nu fullll the ; ,vhh h I e t. ted was on the i..,sin tint
Jail for Passport Urn nils. promise" hill up the reserve baltal- in-hcs and quality must be cqn.l lier.ire
I.ONPON, Feb. IS, Joachim Allans ,,,,,h v'""' hrotheis In the trenches frb ndsb.p began and that Hi s was tin
was convicted to-day of conspiracy in "' "nl 1,r'' upholding the honor of , imsls tipoi w hleli this suKK, . sin, ..r une
connection With pasepoit rrauils which
,myf eIliimw ,n,(nv aliens to leave Kng.
.,,, l( Kentenceii tn a year's Imprison-
., j ,,'.. Dallas, chief cb il, i-T one
of Ihe Home lltllce departments, vvno
aided lilm, was sentenced to llireo yeats
pensl serrllwls.
Suwori
1920 IS A THEORY
Massachusetts partisans. Representative
!'a"!,.,',r' ,r' WV an(! ?,her8', ""j1 ,V"1
the Colonel would certainly check their
precipitate activities If he were here to
do so. It Is Mr. Barnes's opinion that
t 'olonel has his eye on 19! in. n ot on
,!M8' Uut n' reMz that he must!
., (.,.,.,... nf iliv.,,v . suottort I
to the Republican party and candidate
In lt'lfi If he Is to get the nomination In I
,1'-IJ. Therefore the Colonel will sup-
n. ,,,,, llH y,.lir , nr(ler
to be himself In line four years hence. I
Mr. Raines Is not disabused of tlte i
M 'at the Colonel will not scout ami
............ r.. - l,l,k.lf
ttl)N ypr. not nt n. But lie feels that
1 lie Colonel realizes the hopelewness of
Personal candidacy and realizes the
alue of resuming Republican a leglance
aIld rcguarity.
Against nil this Is the significant part
of a signed statement which was Issued
L"C V!!T.
"' , ' 1'rogTcsslve because certain
"lc" 1,1 Republican party drifted far
l"Vty .from Jhc id':'19 ' ,n' ':,Tty.. ",ul
'.eiuse,, ,o aeep aoreasi oi tne times,
"""'V bc!:";,! J hundreds of thou-
sand of men In the rank and file of the
V"""1", ' Hrl, " '""' '"r
"lt hundreds of thousands of
.'""'V f'"1 for' and, "if U'T
t??Jn."?Urf7 X'.HZV
Impossible thus far because a few men
In control of the Republican party ma
chinery In certain States arc more In-
rirrir, ill incir VIWII J'Ullucal luriunefl
il they are In the welfare of the
n.t III, i, tltnl.
"The attitude nssumed by the Repub
lican State convention In New Vork this
week Is very disappointing and makes
i the outlook for satisfactory results from
i manic win not rest upon our snour-
hits, it win resi upon tne snouiuers oi
' the same men who caused disruption In
1912."
Old Injuries '.Not Porjcntten.
Mr. Perkins did not care to elaborate
his view s and predictions within iiuota -
lion marks any further than the forego -
Ing statement, but It is well understood
in. 11 I'ersuiiiiiiy ami wun ine support 01 i
the Colonel he holds that no man who
bellied give momentum to the steam
roller that went over the Roosevelt dele.
gates In the Republican national con
tention of 1IM2 can ever be elected
President-need ever e?ct anything
oui me nercest opposition from t i
Colonel ami every man who follows the
v.oiiei. u is quite probable that Mr,
CoMtdiiinf on fourth Vogr.
I CONFIRM REPORT HEIR
OF SULTAN WAS SLAIN
I'nivelleis From
' M II III I-
nople Say Knver l'aslm Is
rilamed for Assassination.
,eci, CaMt l'tpilrfi to Tne Sis
I.IINI.ON. l--,.i. Is - Despatches fiom '
.,, . . , . ,
" ' '" o.-.iii.n ir.neners arriving p,.r.nns who were mt to r.ieive any
from Constantinople as confirming the benefit fiom the commission which It
reports that Prince Vuouf Izzedln, heir Prol'osul to allow Mi Stevens for
,,,,,.. ,,. ,., n.i,.,.,,... ,i.. 'superintending the tliiid tra. I.u.g anil
apiMtent to the Ottoman throne, was , ....i,,,, f ,llt. ....v..i. d railr Is. .Mr.
murdered .it the Instigation of Knver Colby, b) the lntio.lu, Hon of l. tteis and
P.islta and his supporters, I by ills questions, soiiulit .tcMetiiay to
The travellers say the assassin, se.zed 'Slal.llsh the Inl.mac.v of the fn.nlsli-p
,, , .. .. . that existed between Mr. Shout, ami Mr
the I rlucc In the corridor of the palace j Free.lman and the close bus,,,,.- ,-et.i-while
he wa going to his bath and that 'tioiishlps of Mr. Slionts-iinl Mi Stew-ns
there was a tremendous struggle, ,.s 1
bruises on the Prince's body shown! j
Marks on his throat suggested that he
was half strangled before lie was over -
come. When he was unconscious, ac
cording to these stories, the assassins
opened u vein In his arm and allowed
him to ble.d to death,
'rA1' ."'.T 0l'1,'r,',.I.K'!!:l''U n,'"'
.UntI says the Isxly was sent secretly
the same day to Lule Burgas, where 1
Knver Pasha had gone a few hours pre- j
viottsly, and l.tt-r was brought back to;
Constantinople.
REDMOND PLEADS FOR MEN.
Irish Lender Calls on III ritiintr;
inen lit lltillat,
Sprnal i'ntilr lltrpnlr!, to Tim Sis,
I.oxi.ox, Feb. IS. -John K. Redmond
Issued a ninnlfesto tn-da appealing to
yoiliig lilsliinen to kep the Irish regl-
nients at full strength,
"For the first time in histor. ." Mr.
Kedmoml says In the manifesto, "we
have a huge Irish army In the Held
W,. have Kept our word, fiilllllcd our
trust, definitely accepted our positions
ami have undertaken the obligations of
a self-governed unit among the na- I
Hons which make up the empire Hue
"""" ' 11 , IH rilllllle.l . we Have
... on. I...,. ... no- il int. tiling 111 ine
front We imisi not and will not toler
ate tne Idea ot our Irish regiments
being reeitfoicid b any Inn Irish sol-
.Hers, lieland must maintain the Irish
tegliueiits until victory Is won.
"Hur gallant countr) men at the
ri "lit nave comiuissloiieil me to make
this appeal. They appeal through ine
,,,,, appeal. They appeal .hrough tne
fanners, laborers, artisans, to every
,.,alfif. ,,r olIl. ,M..,ple-. not to desert tlmm.
. 11,l1,,i..,i Hi,.... .hi.. ir,.i,..,,t ,1,1
I promised them that Ireland would
"'eland liefoie the world, they at
defet.illng Ireland Itself rrom r
stru Hon, murder, sacrltlce. eon
oi the lands of the Insli tinnier
ruin, ne-
ntlseiillon
Hid the
wrecking ot the properly ami pros..
i P"i'l; "f every class of our popula-
I lion."
SHONTfflDMITS
HE MENTIONED
"OBLIGATIONS"
Tells Why Hi Defended
Stevens fontine! in Talk
Willi G. M. l-uiie.
WAV PAVED FOK r.TG
WEST IONS TO-DAV
To Hinge on the Mavini:
, . , -.....lil, l,.l',.t..t
I'l'ICCS 31 1 1 I Oil IM A Itflore
1 '
Friendship Begins.'
.
w ....
TO li I ) X0 0K W1IKN
HE WENT TO 31 OIKS AX
liitcrboi'iiiiirh Head Defines
"Slush Fund" IJefore
Coinmitiee.
Theodore P, Shnnt. president of the
Interborough Rapid Transit Company,
testifying yesterday before the Thomp
son legislative commute", set forth the
basis of the explanation he is to make
when he Is questioned with lespeet ti. his
alleged statement that he favoied the
Stevens contract for tliltd l nick l and
extending the elevated lallro.ids I aiise
the commission which Mr. Stevens naa
to receive would enable Mr, Shunts to
satisfy certain obligations and ntct cer
tain commitments which he had nvide
In connection with the dual system con
tracts.
By the same token. Bainbridg" Colli),
counsel to the committee, laid the foun
dation for a cross-examination nt Mr.
Shouts that Is calculated to clear up once
and for nil Just what there was to ths
situation In the Interborough's board of
directum that led Mr. Shouts to favor
the Stevens contract, that led him to
give up a trip to Ilurope, that led direc
tors to setk the counsel of J. P. -Morgan,
and that finally resulted in the. giving
! in. of the nronosed contract and tril
' elimination of two of the illnctorH who
had opposed it.
lmnt's I'liiorlle .Mntlm.
Aside from the phrase "eominnments
and obligations," .'ipb-ai Ing In the mem
orandum preserved by George W Voutii;.
which was used by Mr. Shouts j.-MeiUa)
It appears likely that Mr. Slioins U
polite maxim, "I'rltes. and qu..li v ..vi
be enual before friendship In go. will
be the point upon which tin win.ii dilft
of the Thompson committees: .uv.-stiga-Hon
w.ll turn Mr. Shoot, quoied his
-.maxim vesterda) morning oi il'-iituug
cS:
a meeting of his ho.ml of .1. lector.-' a;
he got the impressli.il that An. low
in was ncrcnUng the Hole of
'friendship to the t-t i ini.-nt ..! pn. is nnd
quality. It vvan rn illed ...s.- t ... .
Morgan festltleil Lefoie Hi. i on.t. .
lee last Uctob.-i that .Ml Miotit. i i . I
. used the expression when
iil.i.g to
lilm a meet ing of the ImmhI of il.. .i. ,ff
on June '.'4, ISiy.
i, n. Jockeying for position Hi..- went
, on thioughout the d,i between Mr.
Shouts and Ml Colby it was cv d. ut
, also that the l.iwvei was making pi.pa
. rations for the big questions to b
. reeled to-da,v. or perhaps on .Mond.iv to.
1 ward clearing up the truth ot fahltv of
the memi.t'audtiiu of Mr Young. That
memorandum nnnlloiis Mr Shouts. Mr
t... ..... m .. c......, ...
rirntiinxi ,,n,i ,
Private Intl. Willi l.i
When the session was over tne cm-
!,--,,! ..1.I...1 ... .. ,.. .1... ....
! mol ()f .. shouts that il ,.- M
i.,,,,.. fonner dire, tor of in. It. ,bor-
lluKi,. m.w dead, had o s n Si. vers
rimll;ll, ,lt , .,.,K f June St. P.M3
... ,, ... .. ,.,,, ..
' 'vate oftlce ..ml discussed 111., matler with
hint, i borne W. Young, t.stlf.vtng be
fore the ...ii.inltleo on Febru.tr) 2 last,
prodif-cl a memorandum of that .lui.s
meeting, which, he sai, he submitted
to Mr. Lane and which Mr Lane ev
ibntlv approved Mr. Young's mono
randum of what happened ended th
this stall meat
Follow mg the special meeting V .
Shouts had taken linn aside ami stnl.-d
that he wanted him, Mr. Lane, to in
ilitstan.l the reason for entering into
such a cnulriti t with Mr Stevens,
that neitb. r himself, nor Mr. Stevens,
nor Mr l'i ee.linau was to receive a v
I, en, 'III f in this contract, but ih.ti in
connection with the securing of th..
cnntnid which had been closed I,. .
tweeii the . Ity of Greater Nw York
1 n'd the liiterl.ot'oiigli. Mi Slionis h..d
foutnl il necessar.v to make certain
commitments nnd incur certain nm
gallons, ami that it was ..v means f
the Stevens eimiract tli.it lie expect. .1
to' un et and p:i these .onitnllini",'
and obligations.
I . let. in led Stevens, 1 said Ml Silo
1 describing his private talk with Mr Luc
' iift.T tne special tnietlng r. r.rie.1 to ii
the ineinoiau.Ium. "as an lion. -.1 m m
honoiable genllcinan. ami I told Inni 1
)iMW thai Mr Stevens would not icij
arrangement not hom.i al.l. in In i
, self and the pi ofessinn he u m-i seotisi.
, ami 'he nof.'
and that so far ..
had but one rule,
..i ,
is i was , oii,, t nr.
and Hi..; M.i- t .,
i.wti obligation or commitment n,u-
as to etnploving Mr Slcvoi.s i,i-made
io the itlie' tois. '
"War that nil you s.nil n. Mi Linpv'
asked Mr Colby.
"Thai was the nibstunci of ," re
piled Mr. Shunts.
Members of the Thompson commute.
