I 'lIllyUJHI HWptWI.WWL,H 1 HI IfBPjl!!
wmwwwmwmm' w1 itPHiwi mn i'ii.ijippwwiqwwpp
Eimttng
NIGHT
EXTRA
4
NIGHT
EXTRA
M
rrc:
vol. ii.-no. iao
PHILADELPHIA, SATURDAY, FEBRUARY" If), 1010.
Congmni. 1910, m Tin Porno Iimh Coiimni .
PItlOE ONJB OJD3NT
ilw
rfilyjfa ilrtrner
GERMANY SAYS LAST WORD
ON U-BOATS; WILL ATTACK
ARMED LINERS DESPITE U. S.
Final Instructions Sent
jjernstorfl: Will Keep
Submarine Plans
Secret
Teuton Papers Aroused De
clare No Curtailment of
Rights Will Be Tolerated or
Concern Shown for "Crazy
Neutrals"
Maximilinn Harden Snys Germans
Will Prove to England Their Power
of Real Frightfulncas, and Even
Stars and Stripes Will Not Pro
tect Ships (
m'ntMN, reb. id.
Germany lias said her last word on
submarine warfare. Final Instructions to
Afnhassador von Hcrnslorff hnvo boon
forwarded to Washington, having lieon
ratlflctl lv Chancellor von Bethmnnn-
i i Jlollwcg anil Foreign secretary iun
Jngow
Germany will Insist upon carrying out
hr plan to attack all armed merchant
ships, passenger or freight, of the bhitento
Allle'
Officials are not commenting freely upon
the latest reports from Washington that
Secretary Lansing will not recognize Ger
many's rights to torpedo armed merchant
I men But tho offlclal attitude, as nearly
as It can he stated, is tins:
Germany does not believe tho 1'nltcd
. Elates should Intcriogntc her too closely
on tho manner In which the new policy
Is to be enforced. Should the Fotelgn
Office, for instance. Inform Washington
' just how Herman submarine commnndcrs
will Interpiet the term "armed mcrchanl
men" In oe-iitlng these oiders, otllclals
'fcelleve Germany would be ImpartlUR Im-
portant naval secrets. Germany believes
' that this Is n purely military matter con
cerning only herself and her Allies.
The German press is again taliliiR
marked Intercft In tho Lusltnnla Issuo
and general submarine questions, partic
ularly with reference to the sinking of
armed merchantmen. The Cologno Ga
zette says today:
"Negotiations with Ameilca nro Incom
plete, but within a week our submarine
war against armed merchantmen begins.
We will allow nobody to curtail our
rlshts nor will we bother about tho safety
lif reckless, crazy neutrals traveling on
English ships. '
"He who sits on a gunpowder barrel
with a Hunted clitar In his mouth must
Upot complain If le.fomMstpgrJcf.. ,
L Maximilian Harden, In an extraordinary
Continued on I'nsc Four, Column Four
DURAZZOAVVILUPPATA
DAGLI AUST RO-BULGARI
Si Crede a Roma Che la Citta'
Dovra' Presto Cadere Cara-
binieri Italiani a Corfu'
Telcgratnm! ill lloma confermano la
Jiotlzla che le forze austriache e bulgaic
opcrantl nella Mucedonhi hanno occupato
11 vlllagglo di Knvaja, che si trova a novo
o dlccl mlwlla a sud-et ill Durnzzo. i
Quesla citta' e' oru elicondata da tre latl
dalle forze deall inincil centrnll. cloe' da I
ognl parte meno die dnl mare, o si credo
che presto essa dovia' cadeio, non nppena
tara' assoggettata nl bombardamento del
srossl pezzl cms gll austilacl lmnno por
tato con loio,
II trnfinnrtn ,11 nttpati nezI dl medio
P rallbro sono statl datacolatl dnl cattlvo
w tempo, ma sotio la nirezione in uiiiciuh
tedeschl gll austriacl hanno potuto super
are niollc dlfflcolta' fl conllnuano a
ttrlngere d'assedlo la eltta' die albancsl
con Essad pascla o seibl tentano dl dl
fendere. E' cblaro peio' cha la dlfesa o'
Imposslblle Nulla si sn qui ufflclalmento
delta piesenza ill truppe itallane a. Dur
aizo, ma si credo clio le forze dl Kssad
1 potiaiinu iinharcare In tempo prima
die la citta- cada e potranuo essero trns
portato a Valona. K' da notare che Dur
azzo non ha'lmouo dlTeso nnturall ne' la
dlfesa o' stata hene nreparata
lerl sluucarono a Corfu' una clnnuantina
01 caraDliuerl utauani ura la inuuna
dice che II govcrno greco ha protestato
tconlro questo sbarco.
i (Leggerc in 4a paglna le ultlme o piu'
ldtttagllato notlzlo sulla euerra, in ital
i ltno.)
i In the midst of the frigid reception
, Uh which several presidential "booms"
're being received, It appears now that
Commodnrft Peart- Mlrtn't renell tlie North
;role after all, That is what Congress.
: 'nan Henrv T llelcesen. of that arctlo
M State, North Dakota, said In the House
i of Representatives not lone ago. In other
m- words, he maintained that the explorer's
""t bious, now uounaenng uiruuKii unni,
now gliding over vast stretches of frozen
bow in the dim light of the mlilnleht
Un. didn't erer Ihpro at nil. '
K. This has nothing to do with the weather
yn mis city today, except that whetner
srnot Peary connected with the Pole, he
"JM the sympathy of every man who
rflCed this npnptrntlnrr northwest Kala
J which came visiting us out of the night.
FORECAST
Kf"' Wi continued cold tonight; Sun-
wv paruy cloudy anu aomewnat
warmer; strong northwest ivinds be-
,i""n(7 moderate.
1 i or details see page IS,
f LOST AND EOPND
KPUpOfH Lost Wednutday. February to. In
WST: 1" ' Stritford or vicinity, u pUlluum an4
Urii .!itt"""i ul brooth, contalnloK U atonw.
'" rt4' .J'.warJ returned to J. K. CaUnell
j" ' W,i L'hcstiiut a
i "J ;TpxK- LaJy'B oblong seal packetbook.
lift. ?'.
i(T..'ui".i.i na Kovetui iicKcti. on owvaiea
ijiiw rcilallpbia atatioa vn way 10
Tnuraday. about Ham. Liberal re-
-ffl triad ud t'arpenter li. yLitadtlphJa.
kJSj8'1, '"" brtweau Uoiaa Square and
iG .biei tatiuii. gold auuburai alnala
rS"D? """ pniTbttraday. reward. Finder
ti 1 ? tlr '" Loo- a ottua. I'arry Bid
Otter Ut and Found di. eu rsie IS
PoliceGensorship
New German Decalogue
Orders Foes' Destruction
PARIS, Feb. 19. Ten command
ments rcgvilntinrr the life and con
duct of all good Germans, which
are said to hnvc had the approval
of the Kaiser, nre being published
broadcast in Germnny. They nre:
1. Germany, Austria, Turkey
and Bulgaria must contract a pact
of fidelity before conclusion of
peace.
2. With reference to foreign
policy, the object of the fidelity
pact would be to build up an in
closed and isolated portion of Eu
rope and Asia Minor in the econom
ical and politicnl sense. With re
gard to internal policy, the autono
my of each State to be maintained.
3. No Gormnn has the right to
purchase abroad what he can buy
within the borders of the Alliance.
To make this possible a community
of customs duties and commercial
agreements must bo concluded.
I. Shako off all foreign influ
ence; to this end rnisc your own
sheep, refine your own petrol and
plant your own cotton,
5. Don't make health or pleas
ure trips outside the borders of the
Alliance; thus will you contribute
greatly to the prosperity of all the
countries of the Alliance.
6. Learn thoroughly all about
the countries of the Alliance. You
will be astonished at the resources
they offer.
7. Don't cast pearls before
swine; keep your kultur centres
pure. In other words, exclude for
eigners from your universities and
academics.
8. Destroy European Russia so
that Europe may enjoy a durable
peace.
9. Destroy the power of Eng
land; only at this price can an
honorable peace be obtained.
10. Be hard and pitless when
the terms of peace come to be dis
cussed. You will be able to place
upon your enemies the burden of
the world war.
BISHOP SHANAHAN,
OF HARRISBURG, DIES
AT LANCASTER, PA.
Roman Catholic Prelate Suc
cumbs Unexpectedly to Ill
ness That Was Not Gener
ally Known
FORMERLY A PRIEST HERE
I
RT. REV. J. W. SHANAHAN
Bishop of Catholic Dloceso of
Harrisburg, who died today in
Lancaster.
LANCASTER. Pa., Feb. 19.-The Right
Rev- John Walter Shanahau, third bishop
of the Harrisburg Diocese ot the Cath
olic Church, died at 2;58 o'clock this morn
ing In the St. Joseph Hospital, after a
brief Illness. Ills death followed a period
of unconsciousness, which began shortly
after the last rites of the church had
been administered late yesterday after
noon, He was "0 years old. Death was
caused by hemorrhages resulting from an
operation performed several years ago.
lie appeared to be on the road to re
covery, but a relapse yesterday sapped
his vitality.
When the Bishop's death came ho wa3
surrounded by a number of his friends
and relatives, among them being the
Rt, Rey. Monslgnor M. Hasset, vicar
general of the Ilairlsburg diocese; the
Rev. Father II. A. Loague. ehaplaln of
the hospital, and Ills physician, Dr, John
Light Atlee.
The Rev. Father A, F, Kaul, rector of
St. Anthony's Church, and the Rev.
Father T, F, X. Dougherty, rector of St.
Mary's Church, hastened to his bedside
yesterday afternoon. Father Dougherty
administered the sacrament of extreme
unction. . . .
Bishop Shanahau was to have had
charge of the dedication of the new St.
Anthony's parish house, which will take
place tomorrow afternoon. It was not
generally known here that the prelate
was ill, and only his most intimate friends
were aware of his removal to the hospi
tal. It was 'Bishop Suanahan'a wln to
avoid publicity, and not until yesterday
Continued mi Ve four. Column Que
and tha Russian
, AmmiasMszmzfMggsa&mmiaffi
r i
U. S. S. PENNSYLVANIA, NEW "MISTRESS OF THE SEAS"
AkMiMi
Slw MviWiwitt9H
m 'tftwiiiwra rn i tl TV.. i."" ' fwrrwryMTriwrrr
The latest addition to the United States Navy and the most powerful battleship afloat, is now on its trial
trip undergoing the severest kind of tests. This photograph shows the Pennsylvania on its way to
Rockland, Me.
QUERY: IS MOTHER
CAPABLE OF TEACHING
HER OWN CHILDREN?
Court Called Upon to Answer
by Father Who Refuses to
' Allow Boy and Girl to
Be Vaccinated
DON'T GO TO SCHOOL
Is a mother fitted to educate her chil
dren? A -Jury will be called upon to answer
this question In court soon, as the result
or a healing today of n father w)io re
fused to send ills children to school be
cause they must be vaccinated. Tho
mother teaches his children, he sas, and
in ids estimation she Is as capable as any
schoolteacher.
The Board or Kducatlou. however does
not shaie his views of a mother's teach
ing abilities, and a pollco magistrate has
declined to settle tho question himself
TliPi-pfni-p. the ense will co Into court
with lawyers arguing each side or the
question.
The father who has biought about this ;
situation Is William J. Glllen. nf Cfi.1 North
Kid street. He has sevei.il children, but
the story Is about his son John. !' vents
old. and his 10-year-old daughter Mnrv.
whom he refused to have vncclnuted al
though they had to reninln homo from
school. -Mr. Glllen was backed at the
hearing, berore Magistrate Stevenson. 3317 ,
Lancaster avenue, by the Antl-Vncclnii- i
(Inn l..ni;ilR of Atliei iCII. '
SnmnM Vim llouten. Htiiicrvlsoi for tlie
nurcntl or Compulsory Edueallon,,teslMled
that tho boy John had never htlewled ,
eliool"1n-"hls life;- while" tho rl had 1
atteilded only two months, last year.
Tills was a plain violation of the cum
i.nlKnrv education act, said Jlr. Van
llouten, and the offender should bo pun-
bed.
The father admitted that his boy had
i.ovor nttended school He said thai ho
I had entered his daughter in the St.
! Atrntliii School. .1831 Spring Garden street.
In October of last year. She was refused
admittance because there had been no
vaccination, but wns later accepted, the
father said, when ho showed the scnooi
authorities that their demands had been
complied with. Later. In December, she
was sent home by the school with the ex
planation that the vaccination was not
satisfactory. Tho father then made no
other attempts to enter either of his chil
dren Into a school again, lie said.
"Hut did you not tiy to fool the bchool
nuthorltles bv faking a acclnatloii with
muriatic ncIdV" asked tho Magistrate,
who said also that he had been told that
i,p fnthpp noured the acid on the left arm
of each child, to raise a blister In order
to givo the effect of a vaccination.
Mr. Glllen admitted thnt he had used
tho acid for tlie purpose, but denied that
ho had burnt tho children or caused
ih.m nnv undue naln. Both chlldicn
j testified that they had not been going to
Bchool, nnd that the acid had been put
I on their arms.
Mr. Glllen then said that the chlldten
have been Instructed nt home by their
mother, who is a nign bl-iiuui ,i-u""c.
ir- oniii aim was as capable of teaching
thu utMn ones tho thtiiES they should
I know as the best school teacher In the
' city
Magistrate Stevenson Imposed a lino of
JU.E0 and costs for eacli child. Mr. Glllen.
through his attorney. Kdwln M. Abbott,
asked that the case be taken Into court.
Ills request was granted, nnd he was
held under $300 ball. Porter F. Cope,
eecretary of the Anti-Vaccination League
' of America, went ball.
WHAT'S IN A NAME?
MR. PICKLES KNOWS
He Says It Causes Him Embar
rassment and Wants it
Changed to Turner
John Pickles, Jr., 3337 West Firth street.
In a petition filed In Court of Common
Please No. 1 asking for permission to
change his name to John Turner, states
that his name has caused him much
embarrassment nnd mortification. Mr.
Pickles Is SI years old and unmarried.
In his petition to the court he says:
"That the reason of your petitioner to
have his name changed from John
Pickles, Jr., to John Turner, Is, as will
readily appear, because his present cogno
men Is the same as a term colloquially
used for ridicule and .banter, and in con
sequence of which It causes him and has
caused him much embarrasment and
mortification." ,
Attached to his petition are affidavits of
his parents, John and Annie P(ckles,
giving their consent to the court to
change their son's name. The surname
which the petitioner seeks to have legal
ized Is the maiden name of his mother,
he says. s
A. petition for change of name was
also filed by Abram -Melntzenhelmer. He
asks the court to change his name to
Abram Pennington. Melntzenhelmer was
adopted many years asq by his grand
parents, whose name Is Pennington, and
he wishes to be known by that name.
Prospect Park Firemen Pay Dividend
The, Prospect Park Fire Company has
declared an annual dividend of i per cent,
on Its building stock.
Ballet Are the Tvqpics of Discussion by ZajRp and
Mmm-try
fci ii'VVi IV
,. vjtfns. .
0$3&toM
Xt
m-w'sewi.-inwirMmWWHm
TWO ARMED ROBBERS
RANSACK THE HOME
OF AN EX-PUGILIST
Mrs. William Willis Aroused
From Sleep by Burglars, Who
Threaten to Kill Her if
She Gives Alarm
MRS. WILMAM WILLIS
Her home, nt 710 South 10th
street, was enterul by masked
men, who stole $80 in cash and
$1B0 in jewels, threatening to
shoot her if she made an outcry.
Mrs William Willis, wife of a former
pugilist, was awakened In her home, nt
71'J South 10th street, by two burglars
at I p'clock this morning and threat
ened with death it sho made any outcry
while the robbers t emoted money and
Jewelry from her bureau and trunks. Tho
me i carried pistols and, although they
1, n.k ti.nalr.wl M,.i Wlllla f ill nlaliprl nti
I unl03t completo description of them to
mo ponce 0 wiu u anu unnsiiau nirttio
station today.
Detectives have been assigned to an In
vestlgatlou and expect to mnke an arrest
within 21 hours. Accoiiflng to Mrs. Willis,
the rings, watches, bracelets nnd other
valuables which were stolen from the
hoiihe were worth ?4S0. Tne men emptied
a bottle of brandy before leaving tho
house. Cash amounting to $S0 was taken
from a wallet that was hidden.
Tho house won robbed In February of
last year, whllfc tho fnmlly were away,
Willis was leading a ball at I.yrlc Hall
when last night's robbery took place.
JIo returned an hour later to find his wife
In n serious condition ns a result cf shock.
Mrs. Willis was sleeping In the front
room of the third floor when tlie burglars
entered the house. It Is believed they
obtained entrance to the building by
climbing from the rear jard to the thlrd-
t'ontlnufd on ruse Tour, Column One
MOTHER AND SON
BRAVELY FIGHT FIRE
Their Courage and Presence of
Mind Save Building From
Destruction
The bravery of Mrs. Anna Spoerl and
presence of mind of her 10-year-old son
Gus, probably saved the building of tlie
German Tuin Und Hchul Vereln, 72d
street and Klmwood avenue, from de
struction by lira which was started by
u defective flue.
The woman, whose husband Is janitor
of the building, was working on the third
floor when clouds of smoke suddenly
poured Into the room from the flue. Her
son Qus helped her to fight the flames and
then Beelng that no headway could be
gained ran from the house and turned In
an alarm.
Meanwhile. Mrs. Spoerl kept up the
fight, but the llames giadually spread
about the room until she was completely
hemmed In. Throwing a blanket over her
head she groped her way to a window
and climbed out on a narrow ledge. Thick
clouds of smoke pouring from the win
dows made it impossible for tier to see
below,
A crowd of neighbors who had gathered
cautioned to her not to Jump and she held
on to the narrow ledge as the llames crept
gradually toward her.
Her son tried to reach the third story to
help his mother, but was driven back by
flames. Two engine companies quickly
arrived, and the firemen, shouting words
of encouragement as they worked, soon
had their ladders In place Two firemen,
assisted by Policeman Qelstorf. curried
the woman safely to the street With the
exception of slight burns on tbe fingers,
she was uninjured.
mw'Kavmx'llsmi)ii3iyitM
$450 IN JEWELS STOLEN
k " v''
-(,-4'f --VVV6t--i-
t k . f
, -Mt V
! . i .
h 1 f f m
1 tf -nytrl
- yjmmmzmr
ww;ttfcxPi-
10,000 COPS HUNT
CRONES; FEAR HE
MAY DROP BOMB
Dragnet in New York Covers
Whole City in Anarchist
Search Government to
Demand Letters
BIG BUILDINGS GUARDED
NKW YOniC. Feb. 19. Tho most clab
orato pollco net over spread In New York
wns set today In an effort to apprehend
Jean Crones, Chicago anarchist. Ten thou
sand men the cntlro polico force wero
furnished with tho latest description of tho
men who has taunted tho authorities for
their Inability to catch him and threatened
to "let go" If nrrested for attempting to
poison 100 persons at a banquet in
Chlengo.
Following a conference today between
Inspector Gray, Commissioner Scull and
Captain Tunney, of the bomb squad, ar
rangements were made to guard every
point by which Crones might leave New
York.
Special officers were thrown Into the
game of hunting down the' anarchist, to
watch all visitors to libraries and muse
ums. The police believe Crones will try
to leave New York Sunday, as he said he
would In his latest letter.
PKECAUTIONS TAKEN.
The police also aro afraid he will en-
llenvpr to nvntndn n lininli lipfnrp lip nf. !
tempts to leave here tomorrow. To guard
against this tho following precautions will
lit tatrAn Qntirlntvt I
f MrprV hlr- .liltrpli In X'pti- "Vim-It ...III n
i guarded by special detective detnils.
Every museum and public building will
be under special glial ds.
Visitors to all public reading rooms
were watched today, ns the police believe
Crones, a studious man. may seek to re
sumo ills study or chamlstry in one of
them.
All clubs were warned that Crones
might apply for u 'position ns chef and
wero furnished with a description of him.
Every railioad station, Including the
Grand Central and Pennsylvania termin
als, as well as the remotest suburban sta
tions, was closely watched today.
Police details rode on ecry ferry leav
ing New Yoik and others scrutinized the
faces of nil passengers on boats leaving
tho harbor.
A force was retained at detective head
quartors to guard the place and another
staff pratrolled the sidewalks about police
headquarteis to pi event the planting of a
bomb.
The Ilnilem anarchist section was being
combed today by the Italian detective
squud In the belief thnt the Crones might
seek tho companionship of the Italian
anarchists. It was in Harlem that plot
ters arranged for tho planting of a bomb
in St. Patrick's Cathedral.
Crones is likely to carry explosives in
his clothing, Inspector Cray believes, ami
every man was cautioned to use great
care In arresting him If ho should bo
ecognized.
Tho only woman who over entered
Crone's life Is now In Chicago, Jt wns
learned, and has been unable to tell tlie
Chicago authorities anything that might
lend to his captuie.
Meanwhile Federal authorities not into
tho mini hunt to aid tho police when
agents weio sent to Middletown, Conn., to
demand that Paul Crones, brother of the
hiding man, surrender any letters he may
have received recently fionr Jean. All the
Ipltprn hnvp pvnrpnipH rmit.innl fit- .
llglon and hatred for the clergy.
FISHERMEN PICKED
UP 50 MILES AT SEA
Holly Beach Men, Caught in
Gale and Believed Lost,
Rescued
CAPE MAY. N J.. Feb. U.-John Bow
erman and Nelse Nellson, two Holly
Beach fishermen, who went cod fishing
some 10 days ago' and were caught in a
northeastern gale and blown out to sea,
wero picked up by one of the Philadel
phia and Reading coal tugs, which had
In tow three barges for New England
"ports, They were landed In Boston, Mass.
They had been given up as lost.
The fishermen drifted off shore 50 miles
and had about given up hope of being
rescued when the tug hove In sight.
The Reading tug did not have any wire
less aboard, and on account of rough
weather did not make good time up the
coast being two days late to arrive In
Hport.
A telegram was received today by Fira
Chief Nlckerson of the Wlldwood Fire De
partment from John Bowerman as fol
lows: "Safe at Boston; picked up by Reading
tow; placed on board barge. Very weak
from cold and hunger. Tell Mrs. Nell
son." Railways Bureau Assistant Named
HARRISBURO, Feb. 19.-J. F. Bier
stein, of Shenandoah, Schuylkill County,
was today appointed assistant chief of
the State Bureau of Railways In the De
partment of Internal Affairs, to succeed
tbe late Monroe S Kahlcr. also of Schuyl
kill county Tbe salary la J1S0O a year
QUICK
U. S. INFORMS AUSTRIA OF ATTITUDE ON ARMED LINERS
WASHINGTON, Feb. 10.- Secxetnry of Stntc Lansing this nitcr
noon informed Baron Erich Zwicditiek, charge of the Austrian Em
bassy, of the United Stntcs position with tcgnrd to sub mm I lie war
fare on nrincd merchantmen. It is understood thnt the Secretary
told Baron Zwledinek thnt the United States wants nsBttvnuccs from
Austria-Hungary thnt her new aubinnrluo iiolicy will not violate
pledges she lins made to conduct submniiiie warfare in accordance
iwth international law.
U-BOATS SINK TOTAL TONNAGE OF 1,079,402
BERLIN, Ecb. 10. Captain 1'cisitts, German naval expert, an
nounced in the Berliner Tngeblatt today thnt up until the end of No
vember Gcnuuu submarines had sunt: 0GS ships with a total ton
lingo of 1,070,102.
LARGE SHIPMENT OF ARMS TO GUATEMALA
WASHINGTON, Fob. 10. Information reached tho State De
partment today that a largo shipment of arms and ammunition had
just cleared from New Orlcnns for Guatemala. Tho. shipment was
consigned to an official of the Guntcmnlnu Government, it was stated,
which prevented tho United States officials'from holdliig it up. State
department officials are certain tho shipment is intended for nso in
the new revolutionary movement ngainst Carrnussa in Mexico,.
BRITISH SHIP WRECKED ON DUTCH COAST
THE HAGUE, Feb. 10. Tlie British ship Theodore was wrceked
on the Dutch coast by a storm today. Tho crew of 'seven men wna
saved. ,
BRITISH MAIL LINER ASHORE ON REEF
MOMBASSA, British EaBt Africa, Feb. 19. The Union Castle mall liner
Comrio Castlo has gone ashore on a reef at the entrance of tho harbor. All tho
passengers wore taken oft today. The Comrle Castle, a vessel ot 5173 tons, is of
British nationality, hailing from London. Sho was built In 1903.
MARSH AND PENNINGTON TO DIE MONDAY
Georjre H. Marsli-nndltoIand-S. Pennington, of 'Delaware' County, will bo
electrocuted In tho Western Penitentiary early Monday morning. They will
pny the death penalty for the murder of S, Lewis PInkerton, two and half
years ago.
AUTHORIZES U. S. POSTAL BANKS FOR ALASKA'
WASHINGTON, Feb. 19. Postmaator General Burleuou today authorized
the extension of the postal savings system to Alaska. This completed tho
installation of tho service In nil tho Important outlying possessions of tho
United Stntes. The service was extended to Hawaii and Porto Rico on January
2, 1914, The service will be made available April 1 next nt Juneau, Douglas,
Treadwell, Skngway, Wrangell, Ketchikan, Petersburg and Fairbanks.
BERLIN STRATEGISTS MINIMIZE SLAV VICTORY
BERLIN, Feb. 19, The Russians will make no serious attempt to reach
either Constantinople or Mesopotamia from Erzerum, Berlin military critics
declared today.
Not taking into account the tremendous obstacles In the way of a 700-mile
march on the Turkish capital, tho Grand Duke would need moro than half a
million men and immense artillery supplies for such an enterprise It was de
clared here. It Is considered certain the Czar can spare neither the men nor
the munitions for such an advance.
The Siberian troops, employed In tho lighting under zero tenjperntures in
the snow-filled Armenian mountains would nnd themselves Ill-fitted for &
Mesopotamia!) campaign. It was stated here. Even Turkish and British Indian
troops, accustomed to fighting In hot climates, have suffered terribly In battles
In the sandy Tigris region under temperatures ranging above 110 degrees.
BILLS PLAN APRIL 13 AS JEFFERSON HOLIDAY
WASHINGTON. Feb. 19. Bills will bo Introduced in Congress and in State
Legislatures to make April 13, Thomns Jefferson's birthday, a holiday, the
National Democratic League of Clubs announced today.
MORSE IN SOUTH AMERICAN SHIPPING DEAL
WASHINGTON, Feb, 19. Reports thnt a new combination Is In progress
for formation to control South American shipping were current here today, fol
lowing several secret conferences between persons Interested In shipping legis
lation nnd Charles W. Morse, the former banker, who was released from tho
Federal penitentiary nt Atlanta because of Ill-health, Mqrso, it was learned,
has bought outright and obtained options on many river steamships which
could be used for ocean trade. He Is said to be seeking co-operation of govern
ment officials who are pushing the administration's shipping bill for passage
In Congress.
UNCANNY BATTLE WAGED IN MESOPOTAMIAN MIRAGE
LONDON, Feb. 19. The story of a battle fought in a mlrogo in the desert
of Mesopotamia, between Turkish and British troops, has Just been--received
here in n letter from a wounded English soldier at Basra. This soldier, who
was In the command of General Younghusband, leader of the advance guard
of General Aylmer's relief column, Bays;
"The flatness and uniform mud color of the ground and a haze which dis
solved Into fantastic mirages made the TurkUh trenches at many points
Invisible. At one point neur Sheik Sand a sharp tight took place in the very
midst of a mirage. We thought we were fighting amidst palm trees and even
the black, sticky mud, in which we sank above the ankles, could nqt dispel
the illusion that the ground was carpeted with soft grass, Tlie Turks were
using artillery and machine guns and we were close to their positions, but,
strange to say, we could not see them, After bayonet fighting we managed
to dislodge the enemy from his position, but those of us who live will never
forget the strangeness of this fight.
HOUSE TO SAIL FOR HOME NEXT FRIDAY
LONDON, Feb. 19, Colonel E. Mt House, special diplomatic agent of Presi
dent Wilson, announced today he would sail for. New York on the liner
Rotterdam on February 25. ,
HAMBURG DAMAGED BY NORTH SEA GALE
-" AMSTERDAM, Feb. 19. Reports received hero declare that the German
port of Hamburg has been seriously damaged by the storm, ,the wharves and
tbe streets being under water. The Island of Marken, in the uyder Zee, 15
miles north of Amsterdam, has been inundated by the severe storm that Is
sweeping the North Sea. Huge waves are rolling over Marken, Those persona
who failed to escape have taken refuge in the, lighthouse and fear (a felt for
their safety. Fresh breaks In the Zuyder Zee dikes are occurring almost
hourly. No loss of life has been reported thus far, though several towns are
inundated. The flood was approaching the northern suburbs of Amsterdam
today.
Birsky on Page 5
NEWS
of. This Edition,
-m
miMfimhm&t'
nfSSS
