ALBUQUERQUE MORNING JOURNAL.
CITY
EDITION
CITY
EDITION
THIRTY-SEVENTH YEAH,
v, (il (X1.1X. No. .(.-
TEN PAGES.
UNITED STATES
THE WEATHEK
TO HAVE
SE
L ROUTE AT
HER DISPOSAL
GANA
WEATHER FORECAST.
Denver, Feb, II. New Mexico:!
Saturday ami Sunday fair, si m lit
warmer Saturday extreme south pot-
,ions-
LOCAL WEATHER REPORT.
For twenty-four hours, ending at
6 p. in. yeetorday.
Maximum temperature) Bfi degrees;
minimum, -i degrees! range, 41 de
grees; temperature, at 8 p. m., IS de-
grccs; oast wind; clear.
CITY RANK CI.KARIXGS,
Yesterdav I
ALBUQUERQUE, NEW MI X,
BRITISH
1
NMITT BE!
L 'i
STRENGTH FOUR ! GREAT BRITAIN
TIMES THAT OF
UNITED STATES
PITCHED BATTLE
IS FOUGHT
and Sweden is
TEN PAGES.
IK, Of" C, BALI CAF
GUARDED BY 111
IVv MOIMNU lOUMMAl rr
Now ri rk, Feb, i s.
recant inns were taki
might to iii"i i i
OKLAHOMA HOUSE
GROWING TENSE: DEMOCRATS WIN'
Mundeleln,
which led
.1 Ul
fail) bi Carrier ur Mall, mm
h Month. sinKi Copies, tic
TO
GARRISON
ESCAPED FROM
ERZZERUM. SAYS
IS
RUSSIAN REPORT
Treaty With Nicaragua Is Rati-j 1
tied by Senate After Sharp! WOMEN PRISONERS TO
Fight in Opposition Led by LEAVELEAVENWORTHj
Borah,
. IY MONNa .OUNNAL SPECIAL LI AttD WtKfl
Leavenworth, Kan., Feb. 18. -Four- I
teen t the twenty-six federal women
I prisoners held In the Kansas state I
prison at Lansing will be removed t.o
AMFRIP.A $3,000,000 penltentlarj at Jeffe.
m I
Powe
bert
ve w ee t e
r T i i ai. P
oi i nis Nation, tx
iforms Committee,
Jombin- Coloftel House Is
o8a by Scaiidmavic
itrv
99-YEAR LEASE COSTS
FRANCE SUPERIOR BY
VERY LARGE MARGIN
i because o
ure of Mails,
REPRISALS ARE NOW
Unity is
Substitute
Clause" F
renc
itly Captured
re Repulsed'.
tf'UO
(BOOKS AND INK WELLS
city tomorrow,
. 1 1 til stat,
n were
BEING RESORTED TO WEAPONS OF CONFLICT1
tlves wotiv
uuarda also wen
.il, ,. headquarter
o oe
ARMENIANS AGAIN
SUBJECTED TO BUTCHERY
iiium sums in tne mm, in- wem, rtirce
act That Germany Had Of- S.TS?!? ff-IlS.
fered Much More for Option j '";. v,lnla s,:,t" penitentiary,
, , For year the State or Kansas had
Used Effectively 111 ClOSIIlg, a contract with the svrnraenl for
r. I , the care of women federal prisoners
ururtlci i at the Lansing. Institutloi
t he board ( eorrect
cm men I officials iii
nut be renewed.
Recently
itifted gov
ract would
pan's Program, When Com
pleted, Equals America's,
and Secret Construction Is
Thought Quite Probable,
n6TUS6u 10 Mar
Cause With An
Nation Dm in::
Common
European
Republican State Chairman I
Knocked Down and Rendei
in,. I,
, , , , . ,,. - ftii-fi uoorvvays aeroM tin
0(1 UllCOnStMOUS DV bli'U OTtaH "Idea of the bull
1 1 . , lh on
, IThei I
'li ,
.neniy
l Italian
gageme
trfana
f'iuht M
i Artillery En
ontlnuej Aus
Now Within
f Durazzo,
ON At ftCIAt, LIA6IP Vim, ! MonN
. is i ;, p, in.) I'm-1 Okffth
,. time 'on nt w i :,m; i, the Bwed-j runiuiiou
minister to Knglond, has been Ogrtahomi
ling a septan of i'onfreiuiig wlthjtoday whi
Kdward M Huse, President on a sect
sell t :i t ivo. mi ; sigtu u o
Washington, Feb. 18. The senat"'" "Mwd, ; waahlhgton, Feb. is. -The British ,
i-,. ,...,. ,-,,iin,i iiii. vipnrainian " navy today is approximately twice asi.,,.,
XZJgl '"' 5s to " . BIG SHIPPERS GET ;r ,;V:rtl
!.hi.Tral PASSES AS DIRECTORS I combination has lust about double the L,-
base In the Bay of Fonaeca for M--'i aeanffnimK.iorceoirneuniH.amB!, Wilson's personal ,
i.afl.iifio Under the treaty the Unit- m moii unl imcm. lcao ,n accnraing to inrormaiion m tne PS"jthe subject of the dctentloi
,,i State would acquire a nnetynlno j Daltaa, Tex, Feb, 18.' Inveptita- ilon of the navy department. The ,,.. man ,,y bni'ientH.
year option on the Nicaragua", canal t tlo ' th Megd grantlna- of annual cta were dlecloaed to the houae y ,,. whoto fjueniion oi
mute una .t naval base i nass.s to shippers through their apnaval committee toiiay by Captain j M A,linn hy aeutratii t
Five democratic senator.- voted ' Pointmenl as railroad dlrectom wasJdah McKean, of the staff of the ,,,,. , iyhts have n die.
against the treaty. They were fham- concluded here today. i ,'h,,,f "' operaUona, j Tnp fiw , onfen n, , dun
herlaln, Mrtine, Clarke, of Arkan-! I:- T- . special examiner rorj Captain McKean also Haw tne ,., Wrangrf and i.'oln
as: Thomas and Vardaman. Bepub- "" commerce eommtssion, will French navy was from 18 to ... pe w,.,,, closeted tor several li
licaha who voted aptmst the ratlfl. r,"J"m" ,h" h";"'in Mday in Amar-jcent stronger than he Amer can, ac. arrang.ed ,, ,,. initiative
,a.,on w.-re Borah, Clapp Cummlna. i ? cordis to the latest information, H"Sw.,M,, ,,ister. The ,,
aronna Tones Kenyon LaFolletto During the Inquiry here mass ofloxpialned thai these were rough, es- netween Sweden and Creai
McCOmier. Nelson. Norris. Smith, of testimony has been Introduced m tin .timates ;,,ver detentions of mail bj h
lion I,, mow that lexas railroads, ouier nnaw nnxniic, tries p-arlied an Ininass,
ONE TOO MANY SHERIFFS j
IN COAHOMA COUNTY
d
ilbielthe United states supreme court '""
itect cause it in effect disfranchised lh
j negro population of the state,
il, li ) Pltdied itattie Rn'snem
tune Partisan feeling over U(j new
was j measure finally oulmlnated in an out'
the I break, precipitated by charges oi
(V M, .... JOUMNAl. Ptr,A. LIA1IO WIM1,
While lull details of the OgPtUre
I BnterUm, Turkish Armenlu, ure
- 1 1 1 1 1. 1, knit;. leml'Offlcial advices from
MOAN, Ml ii'iirhii ,v , 111
Clarksdale, Miss. Feb, , Tnnlg.ii "trograd are to the ettact that mo
coahoma county has two shertffs, i '" '"' ,,"rkln mode ih.-ir
lioldlns office bi election and armed peape Thousand! of Armenians
with a onnncerj eouti Injunction for-'arc declared t hAva been massadred
bidding Interference with his exercise jul Kurds before the ivaeuatloa.
of his official duties, and the otherl Hmrj I lrlnlntr West,
holding by appolnttneni of tiovernor. Thete had been considernlile nr
Ullbo, and backed by a detachment iBHery activity around the positions
uf ;,.(,' militia. taken by the Qsrmans recently from
.i i. Baugh, who had bean sheriff British in the vicinity of fprcs
and who was ordered deDosed bv the ;"1l several atteiupts by the British
Michigan; Bmoot and Warren, Flf-
if ap
teen repubUcan senators Jond the """u wo maoe a pracn
. j-i.r...i.n f.-,, . a..t pointing directors who wer
the treaty They were Brandegee, hlppera 11,1 who received free passes ai
..it inii.,..i..,m rtanAni i.-'.,!! fini. through their official connection with l ei
llngt r, Harding, Uppltt, Lodge, m
the rath
So far as is definitely known, tin
aptain toid the committee, the Jap
in se building program adopted scv-
I years ago and which Will not bl
npleted for several years to come
itroversy corruption and the passing of the lie governor oeoau
Britain i between members, during which inU age ir his acci
ih ,,,,iin- bottles nanei welahts and .uher fix- nce of his dut
several ; tures of the members' deata were l
M
weeks iign. and pelthcr country sinee
then has made any concession, Th
question becam serious when Sweden
iii retaliation tar. the seizure of her
trans-Atlantic mails by Great Btiltsln
used ss weapon
seemed Inevitable i
id ami advanced t
i ans and socialists,
democrats m
mrd the repti
Arthur II. (li
stltllllH
i.ean, Page, Polndexter, Sutherland,
WadSWOrth and Weeks.
Immcdiiitely after the senate had
acted, scnor Chasnmorro, the Nicar
aguan minister, said he would at once I
communicate with his government
and that he expected ratification of I
the convention by hla govewimew.
would soon follow and exchanges
made to put. the treaty Ifwftoree,
.-'. -nut..! 'la:k.., of AflfciWtSae,
the deniijeral lc opposition to thO
treaty while the republican opposi-
EASTLAND CftSE
chairman of the rep
11 IIS Way to cuDirm foioion tee. w.is iv
liO.MO par-jwid rendered unconsdov
' held no ie ' s, litative l.oris B, Ur
lean siai,
iked down
tepre- p
f Hig
I
H 01 OUT OF
FEDERAL GQURT
i i r , it. stiii'
3nigan juage bcouts iaea M,
That Officials of Company'
Were Guilty of Conspiracy
Senators Borah rind Smith, of Mich
Igan. The convention was favorably
reported iti the last congress but op
position kept it from reaching n vote.
This time the full force Of the' idmin
IStrXtlon got behind it, urging ratifi
' atoti, pai'tlculal ly because of the d
sire to further cement friendly re
l:tions with ran-Aineriean nations.
Dprlng Hie long debate declarations
Wert made in the Senate that Uci -many
had offered Nicaragua more
than had the United Stales for the Holding that tin
canal route option, and this is said failed to make out a case against tin
to have been used as an argument six men Indicted in connection wit!
for ratification. jthe steamer Kastland disaster in 'hl
Senator Stone, ehnlrmnri of the cago last July, which C0M nearly I
proviaeg lor a moaern lieet oi cigni s,,jZ, , ii,,. j.;njrisu post
dreadnaughts and eight battle cruls- lu(j(liH ApproilmHtelj
era, It was possible, he aaaea, ttnu , .. , m, now held un III s, iitatie l.oris E. r.rant.
additional bulldlnf wka In progr. sf as VWi,(lpn bresj tirluUn countered j Heart, usage county,
I all nations but the United States hadjwjt(l re(U8a to s,,n ,.., , Hweden, Vlgomun OppoelUon,
secret building policies. On lh j strong lU prc-entallons. , The proposed law Is the pro luct of
.strength of the known program, how- Meantime strong representations I a democratic uncus, h had passed
lever. Captain McKean said, Japan ' hav (, .,n ,.,,, oy both sides to the the senate and was Up for filial pas-
would have but Blxteefi capital ships controversy but tpelther lias given an) sags In the house late today wiih re
i when the seventeen Aner'an dread-' nattsfaotory assiiraii,,, teMdtpg to Its publican and soclallgj !..!. of
1 n. i light..-, built, building or :ii1Iioi i.'i.l. : ,, ).:ari in trnVi'ontroversy i feflng vigorous opposition Qelsgler
IWcrc commissioned. ! W alter lln.es 1'i.ge, the America,, am- as Mil the floor Ihruufl the courtesy
j Tile witness disagreed with lt ii i,,ISSil,,,,. , Ort'ltl Britain, was ap- Of .1 Visitor's permit IStUed him as
Admiral (Jrant, chief of submarines pcoached bv Swedish diplomats with republican state chairman Bepre
i who preceded him, as to the ndvisa-1 (ni. 1(1(.t f ,minK th, United States sentatlve Paul Nesbttt, democrat, of
I I, ihls of abandoning the preseilt I ta olnl action with Sweden in an j Plttsbnfili COltnty, had voted In favor
.smaller submarine types In favor ' effort to settle the question imt thoif the proposed law and as in- an-
AMERICANS NOT
ABLE TO RECOVER
it.-
Ilc b
d thirtv of,
ton
large boats .should he built am
itiachci to the fleets, but that small
er ones should operate from short
hflAu ..ul'i 1,1 ,vl,...l Bi f'r,-, 01 inler
tO DeStlOV Life, vals along the coasts.
uiati
1111 11-
,1
Neither tl
1 lary committee consld
lY MOWN, NO JOUAN.L IPI.IU If A6CO W1BBJ I nCSS IlieaSUre.S tod.l'. til' tlllS,. COIll
(irand Rapids. Mich., Feb, It. - mlttee having decided to (akc up th
governmenl had work or drafting Its federalized na
rd bill nixt Monday while (
committee was directed t
itions temporarily.
Military HCOTCts,
the si
other
nonie aitairs. She wna not a liniisn jn important pan .utile
subject. This is the first time since ,,K t ) 1, . actual Jurisdiction f'
the beginning of the war. it w;us stat- i,lf;s m connection with t
ed, thai a woman hail been given so within the body of t ook 1
severe a prison sentence in On gland within the jurisdiction of tl
for espionage. 1 uunola "
1 mm was. : This ntitlides that pari
I let men ts brought under f,
Itcs." By no friction of li
liicago lic.r be regarded
tflchixa." says the court, '
SENATE. -,,f ,u- hlrh .. I! r m
ary secrets.
w days," the letter
lisd, "a cas,. has been brought to
attention In winch an individual
pOSed to publish a, map showing
location of all the powder fac
tories In the I'liited States A section
I should be added to the Tillman bill
; which would authorize the govern
! merit to prohibit the publication Of
'am information which would operate
'against its military interests,
loo Much Publicity,
"1 am familiar with the statement
sail on tin
.' SlIIHg dati
ed. has not
departure.
if
foreign relations committee, will rail thousand lives, Judge t larenca V. Th,. bouse committee received,
pu the llaltien financial protectorate Sessions in the l'nlte.1 States district however, a statement Horn urigaaie ,,,. Colonel II
treaty next, this to be followed by the court here this afternoon nanaeu aown uenerai William grower, , inn
amended Colombian treaty. Regard- a decision , I. living the government's j army ordnance, giving his views
Ins the Colombian treaty there Is aPDlicatlon for the removal of the ac-, the Tillman bill to prohibit the d
grave doubt whether it can receive cuged persons to the jurisdiction of the closui f m
the necessary two. thirds vote for ra- , federal 'court for the northern district, "Within a.
lineal am of Illinois . "
Charges Arc Dismissed.
Woman Smutioed for Mfc. By the terms of the decision Un In- P
CiOndon, Feb. 17 (t:40 n. m.) The dli .linen t -i ncalnsl Oeol'Ke t. Arnold,!"
case of a woman spy who was recent- William U. Hull Robert Held, Charles
ly sentenced to death but whose sen-'i-. Bckliffe, Many Pederson and Jo
lence was commuted to penal pervl-'seph M. Grlckson, weie Insufficient so
Hide for life, was announced in the far as they can l- applied to in, Id the
house of commons today by Herbert sjx mm on the Charges of negligence
L Bamttel, the secretary of state for nnd conspiracy alleged In them,
Washington government refused t
resulting from mail detentions.
ppeiils (o OolOMsH House.
Despairing of settling th,, questlo
through Hie usual channels, CoUll
Wrangei lost no time in getting Ini
t h w mi Colonel House on his ar
rival here He found hint quite will
iiur to listen lo the Swedish side ,,
the controversy but no hint has ye
given thai the I'nited Stales in
lends to change its present policy ,,
playing a loin, hand in an effort t
settle difference', with belligerents. I
is considered significant, Uowevei
, w in, , xpected t
r ROttei
h has b
ojnouneed his vote, itepresentatlve
H Bams, republican. tannic, I N'esblil
I with being "unfair to republicans."
Nesbtti replied thai he was raised in
, a county where the republicans had
I overridden him With I nrrupt prgc-,'hr-s
ami that he had no desire to b
. ; "They probably took ,,u tor the
f crook that you are," shouted Sams,
t "If you make that charge you are
. 1 a liar," replied Sfesbltt,
j- , Sam.'; arose In bis seal and shouted
, i toward the democratic slds of the
, house "Comfl on." In an instant
every democratic ami republican
i member of the house was on Ills feet.
i the I'1! bottles and paper weights were
delas - fifed back and forth betwetn the bel
f an alleged short- to reCaptUf thttf lost gfOUBI by la-
its. opened perform- faulty attacks. Ilerlln says the nt
linder the court or-!aoks were repulsed with heavy eas
r, iB fisher, provld-1 unities, With the exception of i
r With mllltlsmsn to j French afsault against the tiernuin
in office as llau tH'l "uth Of the Homme, which H r
essor, took possession of the also declares was pui dntwi, B
rthoUSS, Late today Baugh was tllleiy of both side has been .hi . -
nted ,api,i es ordering the n ir instrument of warfare along tl,
i to explain their action. It Ih ex- French front.
led they will be served tomorrow. No Chang Oil Italian front.
The Austrian and Pultuns at va.
urns points are still engaged In ur
tillers duels and occasional infant r
maneuvers, but no notable victor
have been won by either side. Vienna
reports leas activity than usual on
the pan of the Italians' guns.
DuraSSO I, Menace!.
In Albania the Anair'-Hut.faria-s
reinforced by Albanians, prcmitnabb
Irregulars, have occupied aKavaya,
Which Ins eight miles southeast of
Durasio and three miles from th
: Adriatic. Hy the capture of this
1 ' i town It would seem that tile Teutons
.-. , ft.i j .nearly have DuraglO surrouniled. T'to
S, Ul'OS aild Utnor Valll- gendarmes of Kssad l'uiiha, pioviaion
i FnioiiJiini c 111 piesidcni ,,f Albania, who defend. ,1
iy rWOHSIWTO Kavaya. made their escape from the
1 Ui S,, SaVS ,,,wn and fled on " siiip into tin.
, Adriatic.
Stead Pasha has been deprived of
i Ills rank and removed from the Tur-
kish army list for having nsnumo.1
l the eadeihip of the provisional gov
ernment of Albania and Jollied the
I ranks of the entente allies.
-RUSSIA RJBJOICM
OVER FALL or KRKERI M
THEIR PROPERTY
a hies Owjieri
May Be Sold
I ederal Com
lav Moa.itNa jouanAi. RPiri.i lbabbd wiatl
Kl l'aso, Tex., Feb' is Two car
loads of hides, valued at 10,t)0, sold
i,y Carransa government officials for
Sport, Hid held lip by United Slates
list uus officials hers pending the fli
ng of-a, suit for injunction ""' fad-
iral court at Austin, Tex,, were re
eased tonight American and other
Petrograd vis London, Fab. 18, :34
p, in. i a Neiui-nrt leiui news agen- .v
mm plans
new date for his 'igerents. The
' advanced throtl
.tin- republican
speaker of the i
left his chair :i
legislative bib
FAILED TO SAVE
that
lent has in, milltar
in great part tin.
ollltely so sine,, tin
No ROBBERS
The Day in Congress
and not b
ih
Senator Sterling spoke on his rese
lutlon pertaining to German admit
ilty's order to sink armed merchant jj,
ships Of belligerents. United States."
Senator Lodge n speech declared1 jf0 UonSplrSA') PlSISlWC.
abandonmant b- i'nited states- ofl "Moreover, the defendants were nol
principle that its ports were open to m ,h(, nstland at the time of the al
its citizens and free t. travel on leged noaiect and misconduct, but
armed belligerent' merchantnn n were at their home,' In this district
Would be unneutral. , of the slate of Michigan, It n.ce snr-
Brandeii nomination investigating ny follows that nom of the defendnntt
committee adjourned to Fenrwatj be- coafd possibly be found guilty undei
cause of lack of witnesses, this lndlotitsed If held for trial.''
International Harv ester company i if the criminal conspiracy charge,
was charged with furnishing arms to the decision says
Mexican reovtutlonlsts at agricultural "There is no proof which tends,
nmiittee's sisal inv
Ing!,
secrets, whlcl
all hough not.
I department has a few . The fad ro
i suits, however, inn so much from un
authorised disclosures of confidential
I matter as from our own practice nf
spreading in P ports, hearings and
i other public documents very full In
formation in regard to our OWU mili
tary secrets. We do this very largely
i, ratio members lu " '"". ,... .,. ,,, ,Mys:
the aisles toward hldeS Wers thlr ploperly, decided ' .Tl(. exac number of Turkish
miiiers ami the BB0'1 actl'on In the federal courts could j troops captured at Braeruw is not
se, A C. MefrorCy, ""' successfully prosccutjd In VKW j
I a decision ny tin- t niteii Males y
ouri in New Jersey, that controlling U
Actions in Mexico could rightfully I n
onflsoate ami sail property. ,
that Claims l"t tin-:
filed to-; ,.
Representative Tom Henatay, dsm- mbrrow In the United States court.
at. went I,, the side line" and was William Harrel, county hub and anl-()
gaged In 'conversation With, '!' Iss- mal Inspector, said he expected also (1
. Wb 'ii Henslcj w alked away Bry-to file charge In the state district couri g
t sli pped up lo Oetsster and said: here against the Americans who put -
'What right have you to be talking chased the boles ii, on farranss ufll- ',
shed out of the
Phe democrats
y outnumbered the republican factions in !
limits and .after the harmless confiscate all.
,,i books h id beep thrown tin' Their legal
Sled mil of Us own accord tonight, lmwi
i linlrman Kiu.ci.eii Down. property probably woult
nown, but tin greater part of tin.
unison got away, as the fortress
as not invested, lull was carried by
UMUlt. I'lie number ol guns cap
in,! reaches I, unit.
"Before the evacuation, Kurds mer
lessly mas'iacred thousands of Ar-
"Tbc cliv's ilefenslve works were
ganized by the Herman commander,
iSSelt, and are spoken of as adiiilr
,1,, and as embodying all the re
urces of modern artillery and en-
Eddie
Mae
W
Leader ol ban
How Route of Es
Carefully Mappec
ators,
crime Infill to that liver is cognix- fll. (n( tll(t guch gubjects a!
hie by the COUrtS ot Ih,- slate ol il
Hits of Ih
exceedingly difficult to keep secret
and that if We should refrain from
publishing them they would still be
known to foreign military staffs and
our own people would be the only in
terest! d parties noi informed."
II. MORN, I
Chicago.
representatlv i the floor ,,f the clals
(ft?" (lebwley replied- "Beg par prop
what is your name?" Whereupon a
mi ,lnt Hclsshr in the fi , ac- Hie
Ing to witnesses, knocking- him and
In He ,,r and rendering him un- nf tl
ClOUg for a few minutes. I ml,
yant became b.si m the crowd nm
rushed around OelSSleT, No fur- detei
dlstHrbancen occurred, hldei
esldenl Wilson recently pardoned ,,0,,,,
Oklahoma election officials who -,, v
convicted ill federal I for '
icing the "grandfather test" ami CPVt,
are two otlnrs now on trial Ii
,n this sub
-lied lo
GERMANS QUIT WHEN
THEY COULDN'T EIGHT
Washington Park bank, for Whloh four federal court at Guthrie,
young men, who, be says, were ins The election bin passed the house,
accomplices) are on trig Mack was :,:t to :il. It Is expected to he ap-
a Mate witness on promise of Immuu- proved by Governor R, Williams.
Ity. Th rsglsuatlon ectlon of the bill
I, MOANIKK JOUAN.L IPiriAL LIAGID WlRII 1HC, WOCIV, H
London, Feb. Is. t:6l p. in.) Ma- mer, Harry I I
jor General iioeheii, commanding the were related '
British forces in West Africa. has they walked OS
ligation hear- even ill a slight deuce, to fasten guilt transmitted the following telegram autoniohiU' befi
upon any of the respondents. A com- wntch the governor general of the ing down with !
the hold-up, mark
ell and p., per all I In
Senator Robinson presented to mil- lunation of die
tary committee officers letters which stroy human 111
If. declared proved the army avia- and unthiukab
ion corps inefficient. ;commit in imp
Ratified) 5:. t,. i", NiCSir aguan an impossibltlt)
rem.- i.., aaSklnlt ih I'oiteH sautes and proved aga
rotlld SOSHJfe Niearaguan canal roll
md naval base in Bay of FOIMSCS f'
iS.ano.oan.
Adjourned l:(G p. m. until no.
fendanta to de- Spanish is
both unbelievable ,,,,,..-(,.,1 hi
A conspiracy to iinist. r li
le crime is itself .;,ermayet
v. Every act charged Karnerun.
;ainst these respondents "Ministe
In usual and ordinary mnnitloiis
f r'. rnando Po re- holes ana bumps in the atrei
send to the colonial espape would nol be hainpe
n on behalf of Heir After all Hi" plans were
riior of the Herman the robbery, M a k told the
ut
.,ii io .i-i. .o naiiot was laKcn on tin
emergency clause, Speaker Met rorey
aim, ,iim ing that Hie Strict party vote
on IhS bill showed thai the lu ' cssnry
majority to pm the measure into ef
fect at one could not he obtained,
GUARDSMEN NOT YET
CALLED TO ANSONIA
formation thai large quantities of lead
ami copper concentrates, together with
lis f;iU. were now iii i srrsnsa gov
immeii warehouses ami thai the)
in a stat iiuni yesterday
arc la, .Mexican i omul hern,
any obligation to Hi,- mine
from whom they were taken.
gineeritigf,
The latest advices indicate that
lln heavy Turkish reinforcements,
I Which bad been hastening to the aid
of Kizcrum, failed lo arrive In time. '
'i he capture of iCrscrum has aroused
the greatest enthusiasm throughout
Ittissia. Towns, large anil small, are
t he scenes of demonstrations, parades
Mild where Hi. (Irand DUkS Nicholas,
In person, announced the news of the
lull ,,f Krserum The whole town
was lavishly decorated ami the grand
duke appeared several times In re
ponie to the acclamations of the
-I n n TORI
Is MOST COMPLETE
Petrograd, Fro,
l i b. II) l.'M a i
rile
lie-': Want of wile bv
e to leave the not km
oursi of husine4 and is more consist-, protectorate and moss into Spanish on the
ni with innocence than with guilt." territory together with my troops ami "I w
'staff. All Hie snk and wounded are Brodie
Sh inillcr Get!
Years.
I, III- e hit
,.f the hold
b the bank
follow me in
I c inner Hank ITc-ideiit ! , dieted. ,.,r,. The
j tirafton. W. Va.. Feb 18. A spe- frontier ih
IIOI S- elal grind Jury here today Indicted ti. fejaj ,1,
niinue.l general debate on post-1 L'nsriei K. inirnui. io,,oei irnaav. yeaierosy.
m , .. ., w nun, i
v Haven, Conn . Feb. IS. -Troop son, head ol
ibe Conned tloul national guard, obtained (",,00
was mobilised late todav for a St. I.nllis. paw
de call lo Strike-ridden An- to five years il
il th,
'ast
idzed the money in the cashlei
from Adluianl
gin upon 1
total t.Vi
leiH.'d to not Ie;
is frank rin'mp.
'id of swindlers who
un Henry lallanti a
.kcT, Was sentemed
ig Sing Louis Weiss.
than two nor more
IS (via IjoikIoii,
J:'JM a. nt. I The war offle
1 1 cation as issued today says:
completeness of the defeat
d by tin Turks and the ter
s. n the) suffered in the Krxe
b ting ar bSCOmtag more an
, ar. The forts in the fortress
id in the surrounding country
oi Turkish dead.
mnaiilH of the Turkish at nn
bv our troops are fleeing in
, at main points in different
i- A severe snow storm has
, cool Ibe ardor of our men in
i l -nit, who are close o,i the heels
f tin enemy and are annihilating
them or taking prisoners at the tail
ends of Turkish , olumus.
We captured at Krierum the en
ure tori i iss and a laTK I ait of the
' full
'Tin
ised
lied
Ce appropriation bill,
'aptain McKean toM the naval
unttteg th.. navy d, ,artnient s
i h
it Ihe walls with their
be robbi is darted ool ol
i. ti:iii,.ii of ihe hank's funds. Colonel cnmlnsr from the protectorate. Kean- J.ank and int., an aiitionoliil. . n
lor "Tin Si, a nisi, gov ernme
ippto- transport to Fernando I'o
and becked all pi rsons in the bank iligh Sheriff Huku, of New Haven than three ye n s and six months, enemy's fo ld artilli. Up to the
lellce Willi
I, I. phone today and
received Instruct ions
third men
ded sentence, I realise W, h
,t v v i ars old, and In i p rv
vv, hav. eounte.l 21111 ruiis
taken a huge quantity of ar
munitions and arms, several
I . ... . ... , . ... ... ..... .. . ... a . . . ,.,.. ., .... a 1 .. .. .. ai 'a.. . .. ... ,1,1., ... ., . , i.e. 11,1 11..V.1.. ,, 1, . . , , .
var plans arc kept well up to date j John T. Mel. raw, WCm vns-mii nuo,- nauons nn me oeians 01 iniernmeni auv ues,ioe-ii o. .,i, even ,0 mo ,,, Ua .- i.m.u.r mma iu 10. j, uw unuu, ..m- k wuhub ... aiw uozen moior cars, wireless apparatus
nd he saw no need of a general st iff I her of Ihe national democratic com- have not yet been concluded. This details of their inake-ujiH slocking Order before I'aHing noon Ihe MtUttS, was known as the "steerer." was ifnt and a pontoon bridXe park. The
vrli..,,rn..a -,i - 1- , ,' r,,,on niiltee was indicted as I" ing an a' -' report is wriHen en route. leaps pulled over t be, r faces with holcsjTbe sheriff is tdanning to aend fifty to th penitentiary for an Indeteimi- number of other trophies taken and
day.
before the fact.
d
EBEiiMAVKR."
dep
tomorrow.
of the Turk mb soldiers captured in
