; 4f
A. ii. Geissler Brutally Assaultegnd Rendered Unconsciuos
n u u u :: it it u n u u xt n
Fipl
WEATHER REPORT
r'OKECA.ST Oklahoma : Suliinlay
ami Smifliiv fair.
III.. HA, Feb. in. Th tiMnpernliiro:
Maximum Q;i, ininiimiin a.-. North
wintU and clear.
l'ROSI'ERITV TALK
"ED IT XOT '
Another ten Mnry liuiMinjf for
I'll I kii. 'I'll in I i 111 1 t lie v urn ii i lot nt
tin corner of Konrlh nnd Main will
w decor ted with it modern down
town tiffin' hmldinjc.
orals'
5rs
1 wy
2
VOL. XI, NO. 133
TULSA, OKLAHOMA, SATI RDAY, !' E MR 1' A R V 1 ! . 1 l 1(5
TEN PA (IKS
1'lilC E FIVE CENTS
OECLAClOtVJA SOU'S STAGE BATTLE OVER RADICAL ELECTION LAW
LIE PASSED AND DEMOCRATIC THUGS LEAD
DASTARDLY ASSAULT ON IHJORITY MEMBER
S
Several Injured When Republicans
Seek Fairness in Passing
New Election Law.
"NEARER MY GOD TO THEE" BRINGS PEACE
Cowardly! Combatants Give Boquet of
Flowers to Bryant for Attack
on State G. O. P. Chairman
OKLAHOMA CITY, Feb. 18. Following turhulent
scenes in the Oklahoma house of representatives this
afternoon Arthur II. (Teissier, state eliairaian of the llo
publican party, was knocked down and rendered uncon
scious by Representative Loris E. Bryant of Osage
county.
The riot occurred during the debate on the Denio-
ratic election registration law, and was precipitated
when the lie was passed between Representatives Sams,
Republican, of Nowata and Representative Paul Xesbitt,
.Democrat, of McAlester.
Several Democrats held Sams while Representative
Duraut, Democratic leader in the bouse, pummelled his
face with his fists.
Women spectators were forced to dodge ink wells and
other missiles that swished through the air, first from
one side and then the other.
A bottle thrown by Representative Ramsey barely
in!wil tlw lw.w1 ( I?n kWivoiit nil vn i-fmi lliwl ii lilt
him there might have been a more serious turn to the
incident.
Tonight (ieissler is at his home, conscious, but suffer
ing much pain. fc Representative Sams is not seriously
i'ljured, although the flesh on his face was badly cut.
Passed the Law.
The election law that caused the riot was finally
passed by two votes more than a constitutional majority.
The Republicans, with the aid of a few Democrats, suc
ceeded in keeping the emergency clause off, and this will
give tnem rune in wnicu to uie pennons ior suiuiiiitiii.g
the measure to a vote of the people. Once it conies to
a vote there is no doubt but that it will be rejected.
When the registration law was called up this after
noon Testerman and Sams, Republicans, offered some
amendments. On motion of members of the majority
tney were promptly tabled. Representative Sams and
Dickerson, Republicans, and McLemore, Socialist, talked
against the proposed law. They pointed out what they
believed to be unfair features of the law, and declared
that it would, if enforced, disfranchise many voters. They
pointed to the fact that not a single request had come for
tlie passage of such a law, while many thousand petitions
had been received asking the legislature not to pass any
registration law at all.
It was shown that about 2,000 new officers would be
appointed in the state, under the terms of the bill, and as
a matter of economy, which the majority had been so
zealous about, it would cost several thousand dollars to
make the registration such as contemplated in the
measure.
Nesbitt Talked.
Representative Xesbitt, one of the radical, hide-bound
Democrats in the house, made a vigorous talk in favor of
the proposed law, and during his remarks bitterly de
nounced the action that had been taken against certain
Democratic election officials in the state.
The words "elections crooks" were used in a crossfire
of questions and were between Representatives Xesbitt
and Sams. Roth were vehement in their queries and re
plies to each other and finally Xesbitt turned toward
Sams and said:
"I lived in the state of Ohio, where your party was in
power, and under Republican rule was subjected to all
(Continued on Page Sis.) ,
New Law Proposed by Democratic
Misrule to Take the Place of the
Nefarious " Grandfather " Clause
Following is the "grandfather clause" Hint will be snlmiilti d
to the voters of the state for adoption or rejection ni i special elec
tion to lie held on tlie second Tuesday in next .August. The Joint
resolution submitting the proposed constitutional amendment to a
vote of the people wiin passed finally liy 'he house of repiesen'a
tives at Oklahoma City yesterday. It Is Intended to take the plac
of the former nefarious "clause" thai was knocked out hy .he
supremo court of the Culled States. This Is not the mcasine, how
ever, that precipitated yesterday's fight In the legislature. flic
proposed umeudmtnt follows:
"No property qualification shall ever le Imposed as u rennlsi'o
for registration or voting In this Mate, and any other iialilicaloii
for registration or voting which may hcieultcr he prescribed hy the
legislature or the people of this state shall conform to the ronsHtu
tion of the L'nltod States, and the amendment;! thereto, and the
i Ik lit of no citizen of this state to vote shall ever bo denied or
abridged on account of rare color 'or" previous - condition rf
servitude.
"No person shall he registered us on elector of this stale or lie
allowed to vote, or he eligible to hold office under the consiituti jii
and laws of this state unless ho he aide to rend and wide any
section of the constitution of Urn stale of Oklahoma, hut no person
who, prior to the adoption ol this provision, served in the land or
naval forces of the V nlted Stales In the wars with .Mexico, or on
either side In the wars with the Indian tribes located within '.ho
I'nited States, or on either side in the civil war, or in the war with
Spain, or In the national guard or militia, or in the land or naval
forces of any foreign nation, or any state of the Tinted States, ami
ull lawful descendants of any such person, and of those that served
on the side of the colonies in the American revolution and In the
land or naval forces' of the I'nited States In the war of 112, or
any person prevented by physlcial disability from complying with
such test shall be denied the right to register and voie because of
his Inability to so readi and write sections of such constitution.
Precinct election inspectors or other officers having in charge tlio
registration of electors shall enforce the ptovlsl ins of this section
.at the time of registration, provided registration be required,
should registration be dispensed with, I be provisions of this :vc
tion shall be enforced by the precinct elect u n olticcrs when ele -tors
apply for ballots to vote; provided, that It is intended that no
part of this provision or section shall conflict with the provisions of
the constitution of the I'nited States, and shall accordingly liu
adopted and become effective."
I
Speech That Aroused Democrats
and Resulted in a Wild Riot in the
Home of Representatives Friday
The attitudo of the Republican members of the house of
representatives on the election law passed yesterday, which caused
the legislative riot, was best expressed in a tpcech by llpjblican
Hour Leader Tom Testerman, who said among other things;
"The chief objection of this bill lies in sections 4 and F by
placing the privilege of franchise into the hands of the precinct
registrar without placing a penalty upon him tor faldng to rcgisVr
all of the qualified electors of his precinct.
"It specifies a time for registration at a season of the year
when the farmers und all laborers are engaged in the various
avocations und gives a period of only ten days in which they nmv
be registered by making application to the precinct registrar,
without defining a place where he may be found or compelling him
to establish any permanent place or hours where he may he found
during these ten days, but simply says that it Is his duty to
register them, thereby placing a hardship and an inconvenience
upon the voter of nvuiling himself of one of the greatest lights
of American citizenship.
Registrar Supreme.
"This bill does not provide any method whereby a man "an
force his registration upon the registrar, although lie might be a
resident of the precinct, county and state for the past twenty
years. It leaves the matter solely to the option and judgment of
the registration officer whether or not he registers the voter wlwn
lie makes application according to the provisions written herein.
"This bill provides that in case the voter is absent from tlm
state during this registration period of ten days, he may nieke ap
plication to tho registrar up to ami including the thirtieth day cf
June, who will register him, provided he Is satisfied that such
voter was absent from tho predic t, or was unable to request Inn
registration in person, or in other words, provided the product
registrar regards him as a desirable voter. Such a provision is in
Insult in Its Infancy, to say the least, to the business man und
laborer of uny state who are endeavoring to gain a livelihood by
honest labor.
Result Is Certain.
"You may be able to avert the revolt that has been gradually
approaching, cuuscd by this continued effort to pass an unfair
election, law, for a short time, but I cun hear in the distance, tho
rumbling of distant thunder and can see the faint glare of lightning
upon the brow of the approaching storm, which this measure will
cause to sweep down and wipe out Democracy from the control
of this state, us It should do, when such law as this Is passed for
the purpose of thwarting the will of the majority of tho people.
"The result of such ns this pan only be compared to the re
sults of Dial rule In Mexico, which aftor a long continued term
of disfranchisement and oppression there, broke forth an open
revolt of civil war and strife which lias almost wiped the republic
of Mexico from the map, as would be the result In this, our nation,
were such a law us this enacted la tho majority o ihn states it
this union."
HOUSE AMENDS
BANK MEASURE;
MAY NOT PASS IT
Mut Little Chance for Ad
journment of Ses
sion Todav.
MONEY BILL MAY
NEVER BE PASSED
Highway Mill (Joes Through
Allowing Counties to
Make Levies.
, By Htulf Vonvfcpniiilrnt )
OKf.MUi.MA CITY, IVb. 1 S.
When the house today passed the
senate usury bill with amendments so
drastic that it is practically certain
the upper brunch will not agree to
them, It became apparent that there is
little chance lor the legislature to
ailjoiirn its extraordinary session Sat
urday, the day tentatively set.
I'ollowing the action of ihe house
today in attaching to the senate meas
ure the drastic amendments II ns
frfely predicted that them would be
no usury law passed at this session.
However, an effort will be made for
the house und senate to get together
on some kind of meastii".
The Ionise today passed the main
highway bill, which allows counties to
pilule levies for road construction
work audi remedies delects III the
highway lawn passed last, whiter.
Mnriiiut Senate Session
Placing tho I ergency on bills that
had been pa.iao Thursday ami the
final pa-: io ( t U Voilse bill ahpro
priatiniT a extra - I.IMIO for the pay
of the a.'her I employ, s of the
legislator occupied the attention of
Hie senate this morning. The boose
did not meet until I o'clock. The
iiioimiig was spent by that branch
caucusing on the usury and elec
tion laws.
The senate placed t" emei m ncv
on the bill providing for the appoint
ment of a consilium; "iigineer where
ciuntles have voted bonds for per
il anent state roads: the bill validat
ing cerataiu ml valorem tax lics for
the year lill.', ; the bill which adds
the superintendent of tlie Institute for
feeb'e minded to the state lunacy
cnmuii:ioii, and to the bill relating
to roads ami bridges, which allowed
county commissioners to issue bonds
(Continued on Cage Two.)
FIVE ALLEGED NIGHT
RIDERS DISMISSED
Spri'ial lu lite U'urld.
SAI.I.ISI.AW. nkla., I'eb. IS.--Five
of the fifteen men who were arrested
on Monday, charged with being impli
cated in the night rider assault on
Ceoige Shamblin at Muldrow. were
discharged today after the prelimin
ary healing was adjourned until
.March 1. The entire day was spent
in taking testimony. All of the de
fendants claimed an alibi. Joe I hi i Icy
Allen, county attorney, stated at Iho
close of the hearing I tint the Evidence
was not as strong as he wanted before
going into the district court with tlie
cases.
t i.osi s in i : s ii i:itio.
In(ertalc Commerce CommK'-ioncr
Probing Puss Hill.
OAI.I.AS, Texas. Feb. 18. -Special
Kxamincr R. T. Kddy of Ihe Interstate
commerce commission closed his in
' vestigation ill Dallas late today Into
i the question of railroads grunting an
nual passes ,o shippers through their
aiHiointincTit as railroad directors, lie
I will resume his inquiry at Amurlllo,
Texas. .Monday.
The burden of the testimony has
indicated that Texas railroads gener
ally have Practiced the appointment
of business Mien who are large ship
pers into their directorates, such bus
iness men In return receiving free
pusses us railroad directors.
Another Highway Mivling.
MK.MP11IH, Tcnn., IVb. 18. Itep
resentatlves from the hill counties of
Mississippi who were successful yes
terday in having the Jefferson Davis
highway convention Indorse their
claims for the route of the highway
met again today and decided t call
another invctlng of the association
at (ircnada, Miss., March 2, Details
of the proposed route from Memphis
to Grenada will be decided at that
J time. There Is no contest over that
cctlon south from Urenadu,
BRUTALLY ATTACKED
IN THE LEGISLATURE
1
Ali l'lll It II. i KISSl.KIt
( 'hit i i n: a n of the Ht'pultlii iin Mute rent nil
coin in it 1 who whs tmiMnily ftHMflittted liy
Kt'lHVM-ntHtive l.uri K. Iirnnt of Omik
I'omily in the hou- nf reirPM'nltil i veit yt
terdtiy, follow in if rioioiih over tlifl
f nHi-ttiicnl of ii teiiioci it tic flfiiiuii Inw.
CRIMINAL
POLITICS
LONG-PENDING
TREATY PASSED
BY THE SENATE
My, a Vote of Fifty-five to
Kighteeii Xicaraguau
Act Is Passed.
itlVE DEMOCRATS ON
RECORD AGAINST IT
Option on Canal Route and
UMght of Xaval Uase
Are Features.
The series of political outrages
thai have been perpetrated by tho
Democratic majority in the Okla
homa state legislature come to a
cliiiiux yesterday when, in their
desperation, the Democratic lead
ers in the house of representatives
turned thugs and brutally assault
ed the handful of Republicans
who were striving to prevent the
passage of one of the most inhUit
Ious partisan measures ever con
ceived. The day of criminal politics In
nklaboina is waning. Yesterday's
lisurav fill exhibition will cost
tho pebMxralii party what few
supporter aiming lic honest pco-
pie or the state it. lias left.
When lawmakers become thugs
and engage in fistic combat to
strangle men who are bravo
enough to speak out in the inter
ests of the great mass of citizens
ill Oklahoma they should be given
their Just deserts.
A legislator who would assault
a man solely because that man
happens to he the titular bead of
the opposite political party, Is no
better than a common footpad.
In committing such no act lit vio
lates the laws of the state and be
should be placed in a felon's
stripes. And the men who pre
sent him with a bouipiet of flow
ers in laudation of bis cowardly
act are not as good as him for
they shrunk from performing tlie
dirty deed themselves like tlie
skunks that they are.
What happened yesterday was
on the surface --it is no worse
than coiimlcss other outrages in
the past that have been com
mitted by Democratic members
of the legislature In secret. Like
the thief in the night they have
stolen from I lie people of this
commonwealth the rights and
liberties 'hat were granted them
by the constitution of the l ulled
States. Ilnally their depreda
tions became so braen ami hold
that the Republican contingent
could no 'onger control Its emo
tions, and a spade was called a
spade. In return for that they
were brutally attacked by men
whose mental superiors are serv
ing time in the penitentiaries of
the land for murder or worse.
The people of nkluhoma hnvo
been warned time and time again
that they were neing cheated,
that they were being betrayed by
u hunch of politicul highbinders,
compared to whom Judas Iscar
lot was a saint.
If this last outrage does not
serve to awaken them io tho
point where they will wipe Dem
ocratic gang-rule and thuggery
out of existence, they will have
no one to blame but themselves,
lit the people know, they are
not altog"thor blind, and when
tho time comes they will wipe
from the escutcheon of their
state the stains of chicanery and
crime that huvo been placed
there by Democratic members of
the Oklahoma legislature.
The lesson Republicans should
learn from, this disgraceful pro
ceeding on the part of the Dem
ocratic par'y Is to first get a new
deal In thir own parly and put
at Its head men who will not only
command the respect and confl
uence of their own party, but
will Inspire the support und con
fidence of all good citizens, and
If they do this there Is no power -on
eurth that will prevent them
from gaining control of this stale
at the next election.
WASIIINOTo.Y. IVb. 18. The
senate lute today by a vote of
"if. to 18 nil Hied the long pending ami
persistently opposed Nlcaraguan
treaty, whereby the liilted Slates
would acquire a, !t-year option on tho
Mcurug.iau canal route and a naval
base in Hie dull' of 1'onseca for
! I mmIiiiI...! 1.. .....:.-i ...... ... ..
.,1. mi uie Miiuicaiiou resolu
tion was a provision declaring that
the I'nited States in obtaining tho
tin va I base does not Intend to violate
any existing rights in the Konsccn
gull of Costa Rica, Honduras and
Salvudor which had protested against
(lie proposed acquirement.
I'ive Democratic senators voted
against Ihe treaty. There were Cham
berlain, .Mart Inn, Clarke of Arkansas,
Thomas and Yardaman. Republicans)
ho voted against ratification wero
liornh, Clapp, Cummins, (ironna,
Jones. Kenyon, I jil'ollciic, McCum
ber, Nelson, Norrls, Smith of Michi
gan, Kiniidt and Wurren. Fifteen Re
publican senators Joined the adminis
tration forces in support of the treaty.
They were Krnndcgec, Colt. Dllli.i"
huiii, Diiponl. Fall, Ualiinger, Hard
ing. I.lppit, Lodge, .McLean, Page.
I'oindexter, Sutherland, YYiidsworlh
and Weeks. Immediately utter tho
senate had acted Senor Chammorrn,
the Nlcaraguan minister, said he
would at once communicate with his
government and that he expected
ratification of Hie convention by his
government would! soon follow' and
exchanges made to put the treaty In
force.
Tifnl Provisions.
Provisions of the treaty, which lies
been pending before Ho; senate for
more than two years, are as follows;
Article, 1 The government of
Nicaragua grants in perpetuity to tho
government of the i'nited States, for
ever free from all taxation or other
(Continued on Page Six )
DISGRACE TO ANY
STATE-PARKINSON
Vesterday's Incident Shows
Need of New State
Control.
A (JAIN Oklahoma has been pic
turcd to the nation ns a state
where Democratic corruptness and
bossism has held sway for years, and
Vesterday's disgraceful demonstration
In the legislature shuns the kind of
men elected to make the laws for us.
They break the laws that a man of
the street would be punished for und
still they pose as exponents of hon
esty and Integrity. They break tho
laws and then make new ones."
This was tlie statement of Frank A.
Parkinson of Lawton, when he came
to Tulsa last night on u short busi
ness trip. "We can now see mora
cleurly the necessity for a change of
administration," he continued. "The
Democrats have had control too long
now. The Republicans will get to
gether at the next state convention on
March 22 by electing Jim Mcllraw na
tional committeeman und will be in
a position to redeem the state from
the present misrule.
"Tlie necessity for a 'new deal' in
Republican ranks has been clearly
demonstrated. Jim Harris' affiliation,
with Alva McDonald has resulted in
luck of trust among Republicans)
throughout the state. In Comanche
county the announcement of McOrawr
lor committeeman was welcomed and
it is certain that he will find ulmout
unanimous support from ad western
(Continued on rage Two.)
