iSf"
&
«WiWi
«.-* y#*!.,,
Bfi
•wm&i
t?
mkw
Tile T.-S. WiB Give
Home New. Daily
if ^.JFor Many Towns »•*,
,'*•0 .. k.'' v^ tp
VOLUME FORTY-TWO
TROOPS WEST
r'"7
Great Activity on Western
Front Presages New
Drive.
LONG TRAINS BEAR
SOLDIERS AND GUNS
Ottaii of Plot to Foment Rebellion in
India Made Pubilo—'Pacific Steam-
ehipe Involved—Munitione Trane
ported From United States For
Robele—'British Admiralty Seeks to
Gain Possession of Steamship Appam
J.
Amsterdam, Feb. 19.—During the last
Six days great German troop move- Secretary Daniels,
merits have occurred in south and cen
tral Belgium, aays a dispatch to
Telegraaf.
the
Long trains wtih artillery and infan'
try were running along the railroads to
Ho-
IS the west and south and some small de
tachments were transferred by way or
%.«. add.,
INDIAN PLOT REVEALED.
Details of Plans to Foment Rebellion
Are Mad« Public.
Aberdeen, Wash., Feb. 19.—Details
of the alleged plot tc Incite a revolution
in India, In which the steamer Maver
Ick and the schooner Annie Larson are I
said to have figured conspicuously,
were made public here today by Dr.
F. Hunter, United States surgeon of
'this port,- who credited his information
to British officials In this country. It
a, was Dr. Hunter that aided in the dis
fg§9 oovery and seisure of contraband mu
Jsf nltions of TO OB the Annie Larson
last June.
Be*
Sk?rj Ity.
The steamer worked in conjunction
with the Annie Larson in an attempt
Collector Hamilton said he had made
no attempt to stop him and had re
ceived instructions from Assistant Sec
,&.retary Peters, of the treasury, not to
battle of three hours, the war office an
nounced today. The British were pur
sued to their second line of entrench
ments.
Conquest of Kamerun Complete.
London, Feb. 19.—The complete con
quest of the Kamerun, the German col
ony in Africa, was officially
annoj*nced
this afternoon.
fit was officially announced in- Lon
don on, Feb. 17, that the commander of
the entente forces had reported that
the conquest of this German possession
was complete with the exception of the
isolated position of Mora Hill. This
position, according to a semi-official
announcement from Berlin, oil Feb. 18,
was being defended by. German forces
under Captain von Raben.
The German forces in southern
Kamerun crossed the border Into Span
ish Guinea and were interned on Feb.
6, their retreat following the British
occupation of Yaunde on Jan* 1.*
Pred"Je'bseh," ^'Germanr who was'in- [in-law' of Antonio Coda, questioned tne
dlctedin San- Francisco, recently, fort otlier day as toeing a friend of Crones,
alleged Violation of American neutral- The Chicago police ware asked by*New
two vessels, the Annie-Larson
to dray's harbor and the Maverick fi
nally landing in the Dutch East Indes,
where she was interned.
BRITAIN WANTS APPAiM.
Attorneys For Owners of Vessel Bring court:
Action to Reoovor Possession. Stennett vs. Stennett, et al., appel
Washinjgton, Feb. 19.—Attorneys for lant Calhoun county. Modified and
the British owners of the liner Appam, remanded. Opinion by Ladd.
in Hampton Roads as a. prize of a Ger- I Fisher, administrator, vs. EUlston,
man crew, have brought an admiralty appellant. Clarke county. Affirmed,
proceeding under the prise laws to re- Opinion by Gfiynor.
gain possession of the ship. The state Devry and Kuhn Coal ar\d Coke
'department holds that under the Prus- Company vs. Huttin, et al. Muscatine
sian-American treaty the liner.belongs county. Reversed. Opinion by Ladd.
to Germany as a prize at least until Hankins vs. Young, executrix, appel
a prize court passed on the legality of lant. Taylor county. Affirmed. Opin
the capture. j0n by Gaynor..
The British embassy has contended
the ship should be returned to her own.
era under a provision of The Hague
convention.
Appam Is Seized.
Collector Hamilton at Newport News
reported today to the treasury depart
ment that a representative of the
United States marshal's office had been
provided with a federal court writ to
serve on the Appam.
The. marshal had chartered a tug.
Mr. Hamilton said, and with about thir
ty deputies on board, left Norfolk to
serve the writ
Interfere in any way.
It is -considered probable that the
case will be bitterly contested. Such
proceedings might not be settled for
several years.
Federal Judge Wladdlll issued the
usual libel process and the Appam was
seized by a United States deputy mar
shal. Two guards from the office of
the United States district court were
left to charge of the Appam.
Inoendiary Fire in Genoa.
""Genoa, Italy, via Paris, Feb. 19.—A
seroius fire broke out in a cargo of tal
low piled on a dock shortly after mid
nlirht and is still spr^ding-. The entire
Are department, with detachments of
soldiers, and policemen assisting was
summoned to fight the flames. It is
suspected the fire was incendiary. Two
persons, evHfottly foreigners, were ar
rested.
British Steamer Ashore.
London, Feb. 19.—The British steam
ship Comrie Castle is ashore on a reef
off Mombasa, British. East Africa. Her
passengers^ have been landed.
The Comrie' Castle was last reported
ai Marseilles on Jan,^19. She is a 5,173
.tin vessel.
ferllri, Feb. 19.—Another fruitless at
tack toy the British southeast of Ypres,
**here the Oermons recently captured
several hundred yards of trenches was
umotmced today,
•ritffh Fail to Cross Tigris.
via London,' Feb, 1*.
SflUou forces in *08-
WM
»Pi*Hed afte**«r-,«oNM)Oiist.
EMERGENCY NAVAL FUNDr
Appropriation of $2,757,000 to Repair
Ships Is Asked.
Washington, Feb. 19.—A. *2,757.000
emergency appropriation for Immediate
necessary repairs* of machinery .in
battleships, torpedoboat destroyers
and submarines, to increase the sup
ply of mines, and for the first time
to equip battleships with anti-air craft
guns, was asked by congress today by
"Many of our destroyers have
reached an age where renewals of ex
tensive portions of their equipment/is
{necessary." Secretary Daniels said.
"The same is true of submarines.'
and
8jjOWn sucij
Louvaln, Waverne and Gemploux, to. that these vessels be withdrawn from
the southwest
act've
tin .« a
strong point of support and many con
ferences of high jmiilary officers are
being held there.
According to Dr. Hunter's advices,
two 'Hindus who were on the 'Maverick,
fell into the hands of the British and
were taken to Shanghai, where they
were fried on charges of fomenting a
rebellion. One was sentenced to fifteen the sou,p.,
years in prison and the other received "With the letter and .picture there
a Sentence of two years. came also a postcard, purporting to toe
il ferorick was owned by, Oapk written toy BaJdp Baraesio,a bro
tljer
weakness as to require
service to have their boilers re-
to the.appropriations committee.
SEEK TO IDENTIFY
SOUP POISONER
Photograph of Man Believed to Be
Crones to Be Shown Employes of
University Club Kitchen-^-Chicago
Police Get Copies of Crones Letters.
Chicago, Feb.
19.
copies of the letters to a New York
newspaper in which
Jean
Crones (boast­
ed of having poisoned soup at the
Anchlbishop Mundelein banquet here
last week, and a photograiph of three
men, one man supposed to toe Crones,
were received from Neiw .York today
by Captain Hunt. Police planned to
show the photograph to employes In
the kitchen of the University Club,
where Crones is said to have drugged
York officers to apprehend Barneslo.
Caiptain Hunt today asked the police
of Mid lletown, Conn^ to question Paul
to transport war munitions from this Crones, a brother of. Jean. Hunt has
country to India. Storms separated the not entirely abandoned the theory that
is hiding in some sutourb in New Tork.
Supreme Court Decisions.
Special to Times-Republican.
The following decisions today were
handed down by the Iowa supreme
Garden, appellant, vs. Moore, et al.
Marion county. Reversed. Opinion by
Ladd.
Bullard vs. Beck, appellant. Lee
county. Affirmed. Opinion by Salin
ger.
True vs. Hunter, Judge. Wapello
county. Affirmed. Opinion by Gaynor.
FLOOD MENACE IN
SOUTH GROWING
Two Thousand Persons Marooned in
Louisiana and Fear Is Felt For
Safety Several Parishes Under
W a
New Orleans, Feb. 19.—Increased ap
prehension was felt today for the 2,000
or more persons marooned around
Newellton without food and with but
scant shelter. Most of them are negro
plantation laborers, who were unable
to reach safety when the (Mississippi
river broke thru the levee at the Buck
Ridge plantation. The crevasse is
nearly 700 feet wide. A quarter semi
circle with a radius of twenty-five
miles is flooded from six to fifteen feet
deep, while beyond this another
twenty-five miles Is covered with wa
ter from a few inches to one and two
feet deep.
The flood, will not reach its climax
for at least a week, authorities pre
dict. Concordia parish. In northeast
Louisiana, is almost" entirely covered
with water.
Fear is felt that the parishes of
Tenas, Concordia,-.Franklin and Cata
houla, with the exception of a few
high spots, will toft, covered by a great
lake nearly 1-00 miles long and half as
wide, caused by '.the gathering flood
water and back, water from
rivers.
several
Secretary of Federal Board.-:
Washington, Feb. 19.—H. P. Willis,
named by the" Philippine commission as
president of the recently authorised In
sular Bank, at present is secretary of
the federal board. It is understood he
will obtain'leave of absence to go to the
Philippines and organize the ne**.bank.
St*. Willis, Whorls 41 years old^ and
a native of Weymouth, Mass.. has made
opotMiia to cross the.. Tigris below'a study of the Philippines and bin
KtftraMamra
a ..* "1
U. S. UPHOLDS
Note Sent to All Consular
Officials Defining
Attitude.
MERCHANTMEN CAN
CARRY DEFENSE GUNS
'Right to Equip Vessels With Defen­
sive Armament Directly Opposed to
Germany's Announced Intention of
Attacking and Destroying Ships of
tEnemy Without Warning —An­
nouncement May Open Controversy.
Washington, Feb. 19.—The state de
partment has issued to ali American
diplomatic and consular officials
abroad a circular communication stat
ing that the position of the United
States is that merchant ships have a
The boiler of the battleships Georgia right to carry defensive armament.
This move was the first formal an
nouncement that the United States
Virginia, both of which have been
Jn CQnstant aeryice fQp ten
years, have
the message outlining the views of the teejae—jKitd
u"u®d s»te8'
whlch
Co"nt v°n B"n-
.ted tne not entirely ananaonea tne ineory uiai writing a formal note on the subject v»^*?*iraorlffitl^r of Des Moines as
coming: Crones I, In Ohloaso. Ml Wl«« h. of th. conduct .( ,ub„arl„
buildings with destruction. Officials
say the flames'were stopped and .but
one of the company buildings was
damaged. Fire reports were that the
entire plant, valued at several million
dollars, was destroyed.
The company, which manufactures
pictlc acid, a (base for high explosives,
is a Delawartfconp
oration, headed by
the DuiPonta.
explained to him by Secretary IanBin$.
The response is not expected befori,:
the last of next -week. Seventh district meA recommended
It was admitted at the state dej George^C. White, of Nevada and Cas
partment yesterday that the quesUon Per Sehenk, of Das Moines, as ^l^tes
after the complete German declaration district delegates. B- 5tte"0"'
and its appendix havei been received,. Winterset, and S. B. Fry, of Des Molnes.
Were*'recommended as district aJternate
delegates.
was under consideration.
Eleven Days For Decision.
Eleven days remain before German
and Austrian^ submarine commanders
begin to put Into effect their new in
structions, unless the date for the
open of the new campaign Is post
poned
While the United States is said not
to have asked for a postponement, the
German a.mbassador is believed to
have called the attention of his gov
ernment to the fact that the complete
appendix forming the basis of the Ger
man declaration had not had time tc
reach the state department and for
this reason a postponement would not
be surprising.
Officials also are akalting copies Of
the confidential Instructions to attach
submarines the German government
Ships Ordered to Resist.
In this connection it was stated in
German circles that evidence in theiir
possession led to the conclusion that
all British merchant ships, with the
possible exception of those in trans
atlantic trade, had instructions to re
sist capture.
It was pointed out that the Clan founding of which with a capital of
MacTavish sunk by the raider Mo
eve, $10,000,000, was authorized by the last
the captor of the liner Appam had legislature. The salary fixed for the
fought with its guns until unable to
make further resistance.
Sweden Warne Citizens.
-Sweden has informally advised the
Btate department that, in consequence
of the announced intention of Germany
and Austria to sink armed merchant
men without warning, it will notify tts
nationals not'to travel on such ships.
general warning but that all Swedish
consuls and legations thruout the
world have been Instructed to warn
their subjects whenever it was known
that they contemplated taking pass
age on armed ships of the allies.
TENDER8 POST TO FRANCIS.
Missourian Sought to Fill Vaoanoy at
Patrograd.
Washington, Feb. 19.—Response from
David R. Francis, of St. Louis, as, to
whether he would accept the ambassa
dorship to Russia, was awaited by
President Wilson today. In offering
Mr. Francis the post the president
urged him to accept.
Mr. Francis, who was secretary of
the interior In the Cleveland admin
istration, would succeed Georjje. T.
Matyre, resigned.
ACID PLANT THRCATENED.
Explosion of Lantorn Cauaod Fii^ .in
Federal Chemical Company Faetery.
Bristol, Tenn., Fesb. 19.—Explosldn'of
a lantern today at the ./Ve^l^^al'
,,®ye
Stuff and vnemicai Cumpany, tpir
Klngmort, Tenn., set fittLto
leal 'taak, twhich,- threaAWtied aeyi
Etf-v v*
BANKER'S HOME WRECKED.
Bomb Exploded at Residence of Head
of Defunct-Italian Depository.
Chicago, Feb. 19.—A bomb exploded
today at the home of Modestino Mas
trogloranni, blew out the front of the
house but injured) no. one. Mastrogio
vannl formerly was head of a private
bank, affairs of which are now in
bankruptcy court. He said he believed
the Work to be that of a depositor, an
gered by the loss of his money.
The explosion apparently- was caused
by a powerful bomb.
The bomb exploded at 6 a. m., when
the Mastrogtovanni family was asleep.
They were thrown from their beds but
were not hurt.
GERMAN-OWNED DYE
PLANT DESTROYED
Middlesex Aniline Chemical Company's
Factory at Linooln, N. J., Is Wrecked
by Explosion and Fire—Fusion of
-Acids Qiven as Cause of Blast.
Plainfield, N. J., Feb. 19.—The plant
of the Middlesex Aniline Chemical
Company, said to be a German owned
concern and one of the 4tew plans map.-
does not accept as,legal the announced ufacturlng anBine dyes in this country,
intention of Germany and Austria to was destroyed by an explosion and fire
sink armed merchant ships of the today.
enemy without -warning after Feb. 29. The entire "town of 'Lincoln, where
New Dispute With Germany. the plant was located, was shaken by I
It is not expected here that the de- the explosion,, which occurred before
cision of the United States will be ac- the workmen had reported for duty.
cepted by Germany without protest. Two men, the only persons in the plant
Germany's response to the latest re- at the time, were seriously Injured. The
quest of the United States for assur- explosion was caused, it was said, by
ances that submarine warfare will be acid running -together in the mixing
conducted in accordance with estab-, vats. The damage is estimated at
lished principles of international law is $50,000.
expected to be a flat statement tha*.
accurances previously given in the IOWA MOOSERS FOR ROOSEVELT.
Lusitania and Arabic cases had to do
only with unarmed vessels and that. Third Party Leaders Can See No Other
photographic the German government must feel cer-j Candidate.
tain that its submarines which warn Des Moines, Feb. 19.—Iowa progres
a merchant ship will not be attacked,
Will Raise Big Question..
It is considered certain that the
ginning when the reply is received
whose state central committee
aives,
Furthermore th-e Berlin foreign of- met yesterday, -'Can see no one for the
flee probably will ask the United States White. House the jfext four years but
for its definition of defensive arma
ment.
Theodbre Roosevelt. This was the dec
laration of the committeemen and other
third party men who met with them.
They intend to send an uninstructed
ment will be the basis of lengthy ne- j^jj. party in Chicago, June 7, which
gotiadons with the central powers, be-
wm have
was decided to brin^out a state
V:-J
SjV.
4
no, thought of supporting
anyone but t«e party
idofcrtte com^it-
mm
W ^V/1
".SI
ASKED $1,500,000
AWARDED $30,000
Verdict For Daniel J. Sully in Suit For
Damages against J. H. Hammond
Claimed Attempt Was Made to De
stroy Reputation as Cotton Expert.
Washington, Feb. 19.—.Daniel J.
Sully, of New York, totfay was aiward
ed $30,000 damages In his suit against
John Hays Hammond, of this city, who
he claimed attempted to destroy his
reputation as a cotton expert. A sealed
alleges have been siven to the com- verdict iwa,s given by a jury in the Dis
manders of British' merchant ships.'
These were appended to the text of
the declaration of intentions, but be
cause of their length they have been
forwarded by mall.
trlct of Columbia supreme court. The
trial, which occupied five weeks, was
made necessary by a mistrial about a
year ago. Sully sued for $1,600,000
damages.
WILLIS HEADS INSULAR BANK.
Named as President of $10,000,000
Philippine Depository.
Manila, Feb. 19.—The Philippine com
mission has named H. p. Willis as
1 president of the. new Insular Bank, the
position is $12,000.
Samuel Ferguson, formerly secretary
to Governor General Harrison, has been
named vice president, and executive
secretary of the bank, with a salary of
96,000. It is expected the bank will
open on July 1.
It was explained at the legation of
Sweden here that there wouid De no Steps Taken to Bring North and South
NEWSPAPERS OPEN OFFICES.
American Business-Men Together.
Washington, Feb. 19.—A group of
leading American newspapers, it was
announced today have opened repre
sentative offices in Buenos Aires as
the first move in line with suggestions
"approved at the recent Pan-American
scientific congress for draiwing the
business men of North and South Am
erica together. The announcement
states that similar offices will ibe
opened in other South and Central Am
erican cities in the near future.
^SPOTTER" IN WATCH TOWIER.
Des Moines Smoke Inspector to Oec\i)
Office in Skyscraper.
.Des iMoines, Feb. 19.—A watch tower,
on,the city's largest skyscraper is ti
be used by A. B. Pray, city smoke In
spector, -to learn who is violating the
city anti-smoke ordinance.
Mr. Pray said that beginning next
week he will spend seyeral hours a.
d£y In the tower. Persons having
Chimneys belching forth smoke' will' be
"ilpoited", and prosecutions will follow,
he said. The watch tower plan origi
nated with 'Mrs. George France, wo
man's club member of the city jmoke
commission.
1M!
,tv
IK CONVEYS
HINT TO TURKS
Attention Called to Con
tinuance of Massacres
in Armenia.
UNOFFICIAL NOTE
TO CONSTANTINOPLE
Chairman Stone Defends Action of
vsttaax(0«»#W5S-*aMr
MARSHALLTOWN, IOWA, SATURDAY^ FEBRUARY 19, 1916. NUMBER 43
Wilson in Withholding Mexican In­
formation and Cites Precedent-
State Department Officials Impatient
Over Great Britain's Failure to Re
ply to American Note.
"Washington, Feb. 39, 'Secretary
Lansing today announced he had au
thorized the American consul at Con
stantinople to call,the attention of the
Turicish government to the massacre
In Armenia. The dispatch was of an!
unofficial character, the position being
taken that the United States could not
take official action involving the treat
meat toy a government of its awn na
tlonals and could take notice of the
situation only on the grounds of hu- Miscellaneous Matters:
manity and justice.
Information of an official nature,
however, has toeen filed with the state
department from time to time alleged
persecution of Armenians toy Turkish
officials.
Defends Wilson's Action.
Chairman Stone, of the foreign rela
tions committee, replying today to cri
ticisms of (President "Wilson and Sec
retary Lansinig for withholding part of
the daita and correspondence in the
Mexican situation called for in the Fall1
resolution, declared there were atoun
dant precedents for the action, and
cited the action of President Taft and I
Secretary Knox in withholding corre-!
spondence toetween the United States!
and Colomtota with relation to the par
•tltion of Panama.
"The situation now is similar," the
senator said.
Impatient at Britain's Delay. I
State department officials are impa
tient ait Great Britain's delay In re
fclying to the recent American notes
concerning the trading-wlth-the-eneimy1
act and interference 'With mails.
The London foreign office some time
ago".promised a reply to t!he mail note
*but-«£)Mng has been^ heard to the Ato
•erlcan 4wotestagalnpt_ the JS^fPSpementU^
•fcga!hft£vtHfcr"^tr^ft£yMfh-the-en¥mi?
act against American Arms. "/"itui-..,
To Investigate Aviation Scandal.
An army investigation of' Senator
Robinson's charges that Lieutenant
Colonel Reiber, head of the aviation
service, had 'been conducting- the aero
corps In an inefficient manner has
teen ordered by the iwar deiparttment.
A iboard -which includes the inspector
general, the adjutant general and the
it is used in the manufacture of ex
plosives for the army.
CRAZED MOtHER KILLS BABES.
Locke Children In Room and Sets Fire
to Clothing.
Rock Island. 111., Feb. 19.—'Crazed by
domestic troubles. It Is said, Mrs.
"Veronica Polskl, aged 35, at Kewanee
early last night, during the absence of
her husband and three sons, locked
her two daughters, aged 5 and 7, in
a room, set fire to' their clothing and
then touched a match to her own gar
ments. All three burned to death.
WORKMAN KILLED AT AMES.
Heavy Timber at Now College.
Special to Tinies-Republican.
Ames, Feb. 19.—V. "Rainwater, aged
about 30, af' Atlarvta. Oa... a 'bricklayer
emiployed on the new Science hall of
Iowa iStatp Collage, was killed at 1:20
this afternoon when a piece of heavy
lumiber broke at the third story and
crushed his head. Ballou, working
as a tender, suffered fi scalp wound,
but will recover. Rainwater was tout
recently married.
EXPERTS ANALYZE POISON.
Death of Marian Lambert Caused by
Dose of Cyanide of Potassium.
Chicago, Fab. 19.—Cyanide of potas
sium was the"
-poison
socialist Bill in House. American Steamer Cltma
A proposal for a commission to!
"formulate a plan for a national Insur- I
ance fund and mitigate the evil of un
employment was introduced today by
"Representative London, of Nenv York,
the only socialist memtoer of the house,
'Five persons apipolnted by the presi' ,a t^tc! C17T,7'ir'n.
dent would work out details of a na- OJitviMAlN OLl/iiji»5
tional Insurance fund to secure to
workers adequate subsldance while Sn-j
voluntarily unemployed, -whether toe
cause of lack of work, sickness or old
P,an t0 the
president -next September.
The resolution proposes providing
employment thru the development of
national resources.
which killed
Marian FVances Lambert, Lake Forest
high sphool ifflrii according to a report
made to the cqroner today. The dl
ge^tic org'ans showed no -trace of any
other poison. The white crystals said
1LV*-
T.-R. BULLETIN.
NEWS 0P~THE DAY
The Weather.
Sun rises Feb, 20 at 6:46 sets at
5:42.
Iowa—Flair tonight and Sunday
warmer In east portion tonight coole*1
In north and west portions Sunday. S
Fair weather and moderate temjp^
ature has continued over the grejr
part of the United States. No pr*
tation has fallen except light
over the lake districts and the St.
Lawrence valley, and light rain last
night on the Virginia coast. The tem
perature is moderate except oven the
northeastern states, where a cold wave
prevails. The temperature is only
slightly-above zero at Buffalo and only
10 degrees above at New York City
Fair weather is Indicated for this vi
cinity tonight and Sunday, with colder
Sunday. The lowest temperature to
night will be about 32 degrees.
PA-GE ONE.
Telegraphic News:
Germans Moving Troops In West,
Another Drive Indicated.
United iStates Conveys Hint to Turn
key.
Right of .Merchant Ships to Arm
Upheld.
Seeking Evidence Against Harvester
Company.
PAGES TWO, THREE AND FOUR.
Iowa News:
Legion of Honor Smash.
Brown 'Convicted of Manslaughter.
Coilnty Option on Highway Bonds.
In Prison and Out in One Day.
Thousand Laymen to Meet.
Pal of Ford Captured.
Gathered in the Byways.
PAGE FIVE.
Uncle Sam. Esquire.
The Third House.
PAGE SIX.
Editorial:
Deemer and Evan8.
Mr. Hlnshaw's Game Farms,
Mainly Individual.
Topics and Iowa Opinion.
PAGES EIGHT, NINE,TEN, ELEVEN
City News:
Busy Year Ahead of Marshalltown
Club.
County Fair Raises Admission Price.
Gives Skin to iHeal Brother's Burns.
Diphtheria Epidemic About Over.
Local Comment.
General and Brief City News.
PAGE TWELVE.
Markets and General:
Wheat Drops Because of Liberal
Receipts.
Corn Eases With Wheat.
Cattle Steady.
Hogs Firm.
Armor Plant "Favored by Senate.
HELD UP AT SEA
Stopped In Pacific by
British Warships.
ieaxl of the war college will conduct Shanghai yesterday morning for San
the inquiry.
B-IG PURCHASE OF CORN.
lowa Starch Factory Buys Nearly!
Quarter of a Million Bushels.
Omaha, Fab. 19.—L. O'Marn, rep
resenting -Douglas & 'Co.. starch manu
facturers of Cedar Ra.plds, Iowa, has
purchased thru local *rraln companies
nearly a quarter of a million 'bushels
of corn and is now trying to secure
transportation for It to the fa-otory of
the company. It Is said the corn Is to
MADE PRISONERS
British Seize Thirty-Two Teutons Who
Entirely by Chineae Crew United
States May Lodge Protest With Great
Britain Similar Action by French
Protested and Proteet Is Heeded.
Shanghai, China, Feb. 19.—The Am
erican steamship Ghina, which left
Francisco, was held up on the hig!h
seas by a British auxiliary cruiser and
thirty-eight Germans^were taken off.
The China Is owned by the China
steamghlp
Company, and
Weatfor for Iowa:
a
same company were halted by British minister, said he would at once ccm-
i„ +h« mftmrfnetutt* of starch warships off Hong Kong and forced to munlcate with his irovemmejit and that
which wlH S sent to England, where surrender forty German reservists. The he expected ratification of the oonven-
Germans took passage- from Hong Kong tion by his government would soon fol
to San Francisco, and it was said- they. low and exchange made to put the
had received assurances from Wash- treaty in force.
Ington they would not be molested. Of-1 With the Nicaraguan treaty out Of
fleers of the China said- -Great-Britain, the way administration senators were
In their, opinion, had- acted In- their
rights.
A similar situation arose last De
cember when a French cruiser held up
four American steamers- and removed
Germans and Austrians.- -The United
States protested and the French gov*
ernment released the men.-
r'iss Chins MsH L!*
San Francisco. Feb. 19:—The China
flies the house flag of the newly or
ganized China Mail Steamship Com
pany and carries the first-Chinese crew
Rrirklawar Hit an Heal hv Fall of to qualify under the-seamen's aot. Sti6 ),M teen posted and Risk will eom«
Bricklayer Hit on nead oy fan or th* Paoifl/-
formerly was owned by the Pacific
Mall Steamship Company^and is due to
finish her second voyage under her new
ownership Mareh- 7» Her -net tonnage
is 3,186.
Proteet- Is- Pnobalile.
Washington, Feb.- 19.—Similar Infor
mation regarding the removal of Ger
mans from the Amerloan- Uner China
has been reoelved ny the -state depart
ment from representatives in China.
No action has yet been- taken by the
United States but it is- probable a pro
test wil be made to- -Great. Britain,
similar to that made to France when
Rifle iRange Site- -Approved*
Des Moines, Feb. 19.—Adjutant-Gen
eral Guy Logan today received the
approval of the War department to the
(hare fnhnd under the finger: purchase by the state of sixty Acres
nafls of tle'girl were olrtglnally cyanide, near Villlsca to be used as. a rifle mation mm SlVor cooay.
of potassfumtr,
»vfi
'•SLc Cooler Sunday
EVIDENCE
Statement of Deposits of
Harvester Company Is
V,
WILL DETERMINE
'J
TRUTH OF CHARGE?
International Company Alleged to
Have Attempted to (Discipline Con*
tinental and Commercial National
iBank of Chios
gov For
:Extendinp-Al«i
to Yucatan Sisal Groworo—Attor­
ney For Defendants Enter* Denial.
Washington, Feb. 19. The serwlte
agricultural committee today called,
upon the Continental and Commercial
National Bank of Chicago to submit a
statement showing the deposits of the
International Harverter Company for
the last three years, in order to deter
mine the truth of the statement that
the harvester company had disciplined
the bank for extending aid to the sisal
growers of Yucatan.
The committee is investigating
charges that the harvester com pan
and the Plymouth Cordage Company
combined to monopolize the alsai out
put and prevent Independent twine
dealers from obtaining raw material,
and counter charges that the Fan
American Corporation, of which Bol
Wexler, a New York banker, was the
head, financed a sisal monopoly with
the Idea of putting up the price of
American merchants.
The committee has been told that the
Pan-Amerloan Corporation was jaot
formed until the planters were told
they were not to make loana from In
dependent bankers, who refused be*
cause of alleged threats from the har
vester company.
Deniala of Chargos Entered.
A telegram from the Chicago bank
denied that the harvester company had
withdrawn its account. Levy Mayer,
of Chicago/ counsel for the Pan-Amer-
lean Corporation, who made the ovlg
inal charges that the harvester com
pany had attempted to Influence the
banks, read the message, and similar
I denials were made «y the barvpptaK
company, read by Its attorney, Waiur
L. Fisher.
Wexler charged today that th* IMW*
vasjuar. company had waste
idatlon to prevent the Sfeticftt! raty
Bank of New York from loaning motley -®k
to the sisal growers. wA
NICARAGUAN TREATY RATIFIED.
Senate Approves Agreement Calling for -"'S
Canal Rights and Naval Base.
Washington, Feb. 19.—The senate ,t,
late Friday, by a vote of 55 to 18 rati
fled the long pending and persistently
opposed Nicaraguan treaty, whereby
the United States would acquire a nine- i
ty-nlne year option on the Nicaraguan I
Were Among Passengers Manned I Included In the ratification resolu- ,3 .,^
tion was a resolution declaring that tho
United States would acquire a naval
base does not Intend to violate any ex-
I
A
it
v$|f
f« ftJSkooT
isting rights in the Fonseca gulf of
Costa Rica, Honduras and Salvador,
which had protested against the pro
posed acquirements.
Five democratic senators voted
against the treaty. They were Cham
berlain, Martlne, Clark of Arkansas,
Thomas and Vardaman. Republicans
who voted against ratification were
Borah, Clapp, Cummins, Gronna, Ken
yon, Jones, LaFollette, McCumberv Nel
son, Norrls, Smith of Michigan, Smoot
and Warren. Fifteen republican een-
company. It is thought ators joined the administration force*
In August of 1»14. the €hlnaf then Wadsworth and Weeks.
owned by
the
the
the, In support of tho treaty. They were
she may have been held up by
Laurentic. which recently stopped the Brandegee, Colt, Dillingham. Dupont,
Tanyo Maru, while on a voyage to Fall, Galllnger, Harding, Lipplt, Lodge,
Manila, and removed- n4ne- -Indians,• McLean, Page, Polndexter, Sutherland)
Pacific Mall Steamship Immediately after he senate had act-
Manchuria, of the ed. Senor Chammorro, the Nicaragruan
ready to call up for ratification tho
amended Colombian treaty.
ATTORNEY IS ARRESTED.
Loren Risk Accused of Subornation of
Perjury in Damage Suit.
Waterloo, Fefo. 19.—On information
accusing him dt subornation of per
jury in ccr.r.cctlsn Avlth a damn** suit
for personal Injury against the street
railway, Attorney Loren Risk was ar
rested today at Minneapolis. He says
he is Innocent. An appearance bond
a
ione
to
^terloo
for hls
hearing.
preliminary
PERMIT SPRING SHOOTING,
Federal Authorities Not to Enforce Mi
gratory Game Bird Law
Bloomlngton,' III., Feb. 19.—P. 1*,
Flanagan, deputy -game warden for
central Illinois, has received advices
that federal authorities had decided
not to enforce the migratory game -bird
law, conflicting, -as it does, with the
Illinois statute, and that hunters may
shoot water fowl- this spring, the same
as
the French cruiser Deseartes-recently federal-statute. Rssss^JV-ass#?'
removed Germans and Austrians from
American ships In the Caribbean sea.
range by tho I0«w*
*Natio|jgtt. "ler was apprehended at Kemtnere^,
jn years prior to the adoption of the
Arraigned on "False Rumor.
Rock (Springs, Wyo„ Feb. 19.—Jim
Cutler,. sheep herder, taken into cus
tody yesterday in connection with the
recent robbery of passengers on Union
Pacific train No. 18, -was arraigned on
a "faiise rumor," according to Intof*
