The St. Mary Banner.
rRANKLIN, LA.. SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 19, 1916
XXVII
\C. 43
VOR
l.Jy. v
r v j
/;>
r r /I /l /Î /I /I /I
J A
XI VJ VJ Vj
5 )
^ruii-r
ngr^ncm
:8iimriiiin i .tr»HTn rtymr
CHALMERS CARS ARE RIVETED SECURELY TO THE REQUIREMENTS OF TOMORROW
Chalmers builds—I sell—you buy, not merely for today,
but for tomorrow.
When I sell you a Chalmers car, I am looking into the
many tomorrows that stretch ahead.
The struggle cf motor engineering does not end with the
production of speed, power, safety, comfort, beauty.
It is a battle with time itself.
Just how many years the Six-80 3400 r.p. m. Chalmers I am
selling today for $1000 will stand up and obey your bidding,
I don't know, Hugh Chalmers doesn't know. Nobody knows.
Time has not yet set an age limit upon this magnificent
power beast.
The first Chalmers 80 was born back in 1909—seven
years ago. And "Old Reliable," the first Chalmers 30 built,
is still rolling up the mileage after over 300,000 miles of
hardest road service.
!c new Cix-80 Chalmers with 3400 r. p. m. engine is a
direct descendant cf "Old Reliable."
But it is a greater and better ear than its forefather.
Into it has been bred and built a compact summary of motor
eugenics.
It: ;
hv
QnMrflitf
•w i
This ear delivers 4.5 II. P. at the former cost of *20 to *2.5
II. P. It gets twice the mileage per gallon of gasoline that
many of ils contemporaries get.
Here is high-speed, high power, high mileage, along with
amazing fuel-thrift.
Engineering has taken a new, sharp turn. And Chalmers
leads in wringing high speed and power from an engine with
out sacrifice of operating economy.
r I he great 3400 r. p. m. engine is an insurance policy
against the rising trend cf gasoline prices.
Its engine strength is reflected in its car strength—it
meets the shocks of hardest usage without faltering or com
plaint. Every gram of material is sei* < : c i fron, the raw with
civs an eve to its lasting mu.di
An army of 226 in
spectors watches over every detail of construction.
Chalmers ears are riveted to the future with all the skill
known to science.
Like TdFany, like Stem way. II igh Chalmers has lashed
his product securely to the requirements of tomorrow.
P. W. TpOWBRIDGE,
franklin. - -
LOUISIANA.
W. P. Parkhouse Auto Co.
Phone Main 752. 752 St. Charles St,
New Orleans, La.
