The True Democrat.
VOLUME XXV ST. FRANCISVILLE, WEST FELICIANA PARISH, LOUISIANA. SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 1. 1910 IU )
THE MOGUL TRACTOR
S amuufetured by lnternetlenel WHrvester Coe
Grand Prize Winner at San Franoisa Exposilfln.
$875 Cash, f. o. b. Chicago.
CHAS WEYDERT.
HONEST WEIGHTS HONEST MEASURES
GEO. RETTIG
The Grocer.
HONEST VALUES HONEST PRICES
MUMFORO'S ROYAL PHARMACY
,.Tke Safety First Drug Store..
WOODLAWN FARM
J. B. McGEI(EE (1836-1918)
We stend upom the threshold of a new year, to bring,
we trust, harder work than ever with its attendant mauling.
But thus compelling our faithful fields to unlock their stores
to us and ro those dependent, to furnish cheer for the guest
within our gates and hellp for our less fortunate brother, we
shall find ais always the complete stiasaction that CaRnAION
is perfect and EARTH an admirable home.
Our best wishes to every sentient being!l
SUCCEaS LIES IN MUTUAL SIIVICE.
J. 8. MdcEIIEE - - - Laurel Hill, la.
COAL! COAL!
When in need of Coal
that will burn, ring
Telephone No. I.
Prompt delivery.
Bayou Sara Ice &
Coal Works.
LOUISIANA'S YOUNG FARMERS AND HOME-MAKERS
. I _.
The one hundred and twentypfvs
boys and girls w ho attended the Winter
Short Course. of the Louislana State
University have taken home with them
iew ideas and standards which will
benefit not only themselves and their
nminedia, famnilies but their entire
~omsnlutnitlies. The young peoplet
ieventyi.tght bioy and furtyseven girl
were chosen from an enrollment of
l7o01) in corn, pig, canning and poultry
clubs for having attained more than
ordinary success in club work. Their
expjtaeee were mta by school boards,
banksil, railroads and business men.
This is the third year this opportu
rtlly has been offered by the Ilnlversity
and the plan is proving so successful
that it is hoped it may be broadened
each year, The boys were provided
board 4nd lodging at the University at
a very low cost for the ten days. The
girls took their meals at the University
dining halil and lived with private
famllies In the city of Baton Rouge,
Thease young people came from tbhe
rural districts and the instructlon was
deeligned to aid them in carrying on
their club work in an intelligent and
profitable manner. The boys were or
ganised Into classes to receive lastrue
tion in the raising of tarm crope and
live stock. Improved farming impl.e
ments and the biet types of live stock
were used in the demonstrations. The
girls were divided into sections and
classes organized in sewing. cooking,
buttermlaking, home nursing and house
hold mansgenment. Special attentile
was given to the making of labor-saving
deviceos or the home.
Throlughout the entire course one
period each day was devoted to the
study of lenilish and report writinl.
CLUB WORK ADDS TO
WEALTH OF STATE
Boys belonging to the corn and pig
clubs in Louislana added more than
$it,ur0u.0o to the wealth of the State
in 1916, according to reports submitted
to the Junior Extension divislon of the
Loutalan State University. These
lagures are based on the market price
of the boys' products after all expenses
lf production have been deducted.
The 1,166 pigs raised by the boys
mnade an average net gain of 161 pounds
J each, at a cost of four cents per pound.
At a market price of seven cents per
pound the value of these animals, above
the cost of production, would be $6,
281.9S. This is figured on a pork basis.
wihile, as a matter of fact, a large
I4uwb¶lr of the boys' pigs, especially
i howe that won prizes at the parish
and State fairs, are worth much more
as breeding stock.
The corn club boys reported a total
of 80,191 bushels. raised at a cost of
J78 cents per bushel. At a market
prrice of 65 cents, the value of this
corn, above the cost of production,
would bt $5.774. 2 Many of the boys
nave practiced seed selection for a
number of years and their corn should
be worth much more than the above
:llture, for planting purposes.
Aside from its educational value, the
iuib work would seem to be worth
.uhile if considered from only a com
mercial standpoint.
STATE SUNI)AY SCHOOL
MEET AT SHlREVEPORT
Louisiana's 30th Annual Sunday
School Convention is announced for
Shreveport, Tuesday, Wednesday and
Thursday, April 4, 5. and 6. 1916. It
will be the largest convention of its
kind ever held int the state and will
pre+teetlt the strongest program ever
prepared for the Louisiana Sulnday
School workers
The program provides, not only for
great mass convention sesslons. but
for divisional conferences on Tuesday,
Wednesday and Thersday afternoon,
and also for pastors and superlntend,
ents conferences on Tuesday and Wed
nesday afternoon,
A special feature of the convention
will be a great Sunday School parade
on Tuesday afternoon, April 4th. par.
iielpated in by all the delegates and
all Sunday Schools of Shreveport.
Shreveport is making elaborate and
cotmplete arrangements for the recep
tion of the convention. The local com
mittee of arrange.ments is under the
leadership, of Mr. W A. MeKennon.
THE FOUR AROSS.
SMansfield Enterprlse.
There Is a famous brand of cheap
bust-head whisky that is extensively
advertised, and largely purchased by
Snegroes in this sction Recently one
•of our most highly roespected ladies
received one of the seductive circulars,
and thlnking thatt It was a nPew variety
of Roee she ordered "four roses" with
the view of ptlanting them in her
tlower garden The shipmenlt came to
hand promptly, and the express agent
noifiled her that he had a packaglle for
her, and she 'ihoned him to deliver it
at once as she was afraid it might
spellO. The aglent responded that the
.'ompany did not deliver whisky and
that she wonld have to call at the
)ttice and receipt for the same. The
lady, beitng a strong prohibition advo
,eate, was dum-founded, and left the
stul reaain wher, it wa.
DLtlieem leds to rietoqr.
JOHN M. PARKER
GETS G00 CRO
School Turns Out and Stores Close-
Speaker Greeted With Hearty
Applause.
John M Parker, candidate for gov
,.rnor on the Progressive ticket, made
the first speech of his campaign, after
his nomination, at the court house
here. last Priday morning. He was
;r.o,'ted by one of the largest crowds
that has assembled to hear a political
peec'h in this parish in a long time.
i'he district court room was taxed
-ilmost to its capacity, all seats being
filled and many persons heing forced
to stand along the walls. Many ladies
.wore present and school was dismissed
n order to give the children an op
portunlty to hear Mr. Parker. eveeral
of the stores closed and merchants and
,Ilerks attended the speaking.
Upon rising to address the audience,
Mr. Parker was greeted with hearty
epplause, and also at different times
during the course of his remarks. Hie
paid a glowing tribute to Weat Peili
is'ra Parish and her pmople, then went
et length into criticism of present con
ditiomn In louislana.
Mr. Parker scouted as absurd the
:,Ssertlon that his election would bring
'he negro back Into polities in Louts
inna, statlng that the Progressive party
in a white man's party.
lie dwelt at lenlth upon the re
sources and conditions of iouisiana.
:itd devoted much of his time to agri
cultural toplics. le sco)red the fee
system of remunerating public oflicers,
and was bitter in his denunciation of
,iblic olclrers and lawyers.
Mr Parker exhibilted one of the
famous "pink tickets" and tltterly oe
*torinted bhoe rule in politics. lie drew
a touching word picture of the late
. \'llleret's having become a victim
of the bosses in the primary election
of 1912.
Ilob Ewing came In for more atten
rton int Mr. Parker's talk than any
other subject. The speaker denounced
'he New Orleans politician in unmeas
:red terms.
Mr. Parker did not touch upon all
he planks of his platform, but did
,plain the plank therein relative to
the short ballot.
Hte stated that Ir order to bring
'hout beneficial lentalatlon, with a
hostile legislature. he would go before
'he people.
At the time Mr Parker made his
speech, tkemocratic leaders had not
decihde'd as to whether they would per
,ilt their nominee to meet Mr. Parker
'n joint debate. Mr Parker promised
his hearers. In event of this refusal, to
write Mr. Pleasant nend make an effort
to gret him to commit himself upon
important Issues of the campailtn.
LIMITS OF POETIC LICENSE.
(London ('hronile. I
Alfred Austins ignorance of the tact
that the word "byr," means "cow
houew" led him into an amusing blun.
der. One of the verses of his poem,.
"To Arms!" runs:
P'rom nnglish hamlet., Irish hills.
Welsh hearthe and Rcottlsh bresa.
They throng to show that they are etll
8ons worthy of their sires
"Mr. Austln may b informed,"
wrote a 8eottlish crltic. "that soes of
itren that peas from byres are found
oftener In English cattle shows than
In foreign battlefields. Potle Iecense
l igreat, but It do. aot eover aseader."
LOUISIANA LIVE
STOCK EXCHANGE
The purchasing and selling of live
stock among the people of any one
state I. highly desirable, but it often
happens that near neighbors do not
know each others wants and offerings.
One of the specialists of the Live
stock Extension Service. L. 8. U.,
while out en an Inspection trip recently
earned that a farmer wanted to buy
ýt herd bull. IBfore leaving the com.
nunity he referred this man to as
ither farmer living eight miles awa)
",ho had just the animal he wanted.
rnd they promptly closed the deal.
Numbers of persons n Lousuliana de.
siring to buy cattle have gone to di.
tant points in Western Texas to make
,urchases, paid high prices and higher
rreight to get the animalst in louisiana.
\t the same time Txas buyers have
overed several sections of Loulislana
anrd from a small territory surrounding
itayou Sars have shipped out during
the past six months about 130 ear
loads to go to the Texas ranges, Why
o to Texas to buy cattle when we are
supplytng them with a goodly number
for the ranches of that state? The
"lBuy at home idea" should be used by
farmers and stock breeders among
themselves as well as with the mer
chants of the local towns,
The Live Stock lCxtenaion Service
of L. S. U. Is receiving a great many
offers of live stock for sale and re
,cuests from those who wish to buy as
a result of the annomncement that an
exchange would be maintained for the
murpose of getting the buyer and seller
logether. Many of the offers of the
pmurembred animals for sa$ come from
men bnving'only one to three. This
n!cludes horses, beet and dairy cattle,
hogs and poultry; no offers of sheep
have yet been made. The requests
from buyers Indicate that there Is a
demand for more live stock than has,
been offered for sale. Several requests
have been received from men who
... . .?w lrr llll a a I I
derire to buy from one to six purtbred
beef bulls. One wants to buy forty
Ab'rdetien Angtus cows, and another,
15 gtood young steers, weighing from
,to o 70toO pounds, for the feedlot.
Another wants to buy 100 high-class
shrlopshire owes, but will take common
shelp if better class is not available.
Another wants a car load of bcheap
rangebred horses.
All of this tends to show that there
should be some active alency through
, hich the buyer and seller can be
brought togeither, and It is now be
Itlied that the Live Stock Exchange
will in some meoasure serve this pur.
pose, but it cannot take the place of
regular end persistent advertlising a
the proper kind of journal.
LERING LAWRASON
HONORED BY FELLOWS
Elected Marshal for Clas Day Exe
ciete--Prominent In Fraternity
and Athletie Work,
Leveries lawrason of St. Irancil
vile receiv.=d a token of the appreclal
lion of his comrades in the senior eless
at the MaSaachus'tt. Institute of Tech.
nology by election for marshal for the
class day exercises. The naming of
this especial committee has especial
iguliflrantce in that the graduation ex
erlises this year will be directly con
nected with the dedication exercises of
the New Technology. on June It, 13
and 14.
Mr. IAwrason is a student la Course
II. Mechaniteal Engi.neering. and nota
ble Its various student activtlevti some
of the items being: lllma Alpha Epst.
lon. Ira,.r ('lub, Thets TaU. M. 1. T.
Athletic Aaectlation, clmaa relay teeam,
Tet'-hlique electoral committee, track
teaiml for three years, and Technique
board.
NOW OPEN--OUR 1916
CHRISTMAS SAVINGS CLUB
You pav for 49 weeks.
Below we show exactly the amount you pay In during the i9 weeks
le Class- -1225
either ascending or dueeonding ............. ....
2c Class- 2450
either aecending or deecending .......................
c Class- $6150
either ascendiq or descending ...................... a
1 Class
either ascending or descending .................$12250
Or you can deposit the same amount each week for 49 weeks
and accumulate as follows:
25c each week ....... ................... 12.25
50c each week ........... ................. 24.50
$1.00 each week .. ...................... $ 49.00
$2.00 each week ...... ............$.... 98.00
$2.50 each week ...........................$122.50
and we add to these amounts 3Vi/ per annum interet.
WE INVITE YOU TO JOIN.
THE BANK OF BATON ROUGE
THE MILLION DOLLAR BANK
-i
