NON-PARTISAN
UNIViRSITY '
FEB 20fflGfttl Organ of the Building Trades Council of Cincinnati and Vicinity
L1BR3BHW-
Vol. III. No. 44
CINCINNATI, OHIO, FEBRUARY 19, 1916
One Dollar a Year
INDEPENDENT
"V imMMMMyjJjr, MfyyyyMMMMllMIWlMM
T
Busy Times
Mr. Springer Springs a Scheme to Get Four or Five Franchises in One.
Tracks to Lead All Lines to Union Terminal, in the Heart of Cin
cinnati. Joint Depot for Railroads and Tractions, With Freight
Belt Line Included In Project. Proposition to Be Submitted to
Officials of the Transportation Companies and of City.
Plans for a union railroad depot and"
terminal, with a connecting belt line
freight railway for Cincinnati, said by rail
road men to whom they have been sub
mitted to be both practical and compre
hensive, have been prepared by M. E.
Springer. The plan incidentally provides
for the entrance of all interurbans into
the city in connection with the railroad
terminal should it prove desirable to in
corporate the interurban terminal scheme
with the union depot plan. Railroad of
ficials to whom the plan has been in
formally submitted have given it their
personal indorsement.
The plan soon will lie formally sub
mitted to the railroads enturing Cincin
nati, to the city officials and to the civic
and business organisations of the city.
It is the result of a year's study of Cin
cinnati's transportation problems by Mr.
Springer and his engineers. The former
Union Depot Committee of the Chamber
of Commerce, of which Harry R. Pro
basco was chairman, reviewed the plans,
and recommended that they be given
serious consideration as a possible solu
tion for the traffic terminal situation in
Cincinnati.
.- 1 'f le'pof'iii OoortTtriiri'til iiirv"
As contemplated, the plan provides for
a Union Depot for the steam railroads
at Court, Plum and Canal streets, with
an interurban terminal station adjoining
. it on the south. The railtoads entering
Cincinnati from the West will be brought
into the depot through a subway located
to the north of Court street. These will
include the Baltimore and Ohio, the Big
I "our, the Chesapeake and Ohio, the Cin
cinnati Southern, the C, II. and I)., the
Pennsylvania and the Kentucky Central
Division of the L. and N. The railroads
entering the city from the East, includ
ing the Louisville and Nashville, the
C L. anil N. and the Norfolk and West
ern, will be brought into the depot
through a subway in present Canal
street.
The plan provider for an interurban
entrance in conjunction with the steam
railroad entrances, the cars using the
same right of way. The loop connects
up with each interurban at present touch
ing the city limits.
A freight belt line running clear around
the city and connecting up with the
Chesapeake and Ohio Railroad across
the river is also provided. This belt line
connects with every railroad now enter
ing the city and provides belt line freight
service to all the important industrial
sections of the city. In connection with
it the plan provides for a railroad bridge
across the Ohio river near the present
waterworks at California, connecting
with the C. and O., near Brent, across
from Coney Island.
Cares For Ijocnl Tralllc.
Provision is also made by the plan for
the development of local rapid transit
service along the belt line. As the belt
line touches the principal factory dis
tricts, together with the outlying suburbs,
fast communication can be established
serving a large manufacturing and sub
urban population.
The belt line in a general way starts
at the Union Depot at Canal and Court
streets, runs west to McLean avenue,
follows west of the line of McLean
avenue and Spring Grove avenue north
to Colerain and Mill Creek, then follows
the Miami ami Erie Canal to St. Her -
nard. where it cuts across east to Nor
wood, paralleling the Baltimore and
Ohio; then follows the Swing interur
ban line from Norwood to Madisonville.
From Madisonville it parallels in a gen
eral way the Pennsylvania Railroad's
Richmond division to Red Bank and
Linvvood, where it cuts cast across coun
try, crossing the Little Miami River and
running east of the river in a southerly
direction until it reaches California.
Here a bridge connects it with the C.
and O. line on the Kentucky side.
The line also runs east from the depot
at Court and Canal streets following the
canal to Cheapside, where it is diverted
to the line of Eggleston avenue, which it
follows to the junction with the Pennsyl-
Ahead For Bigelow!
Tin-: xi-: w
io.mi: OK
The coming week will be an important
one in the history of one of Cincinnati's
most successful business institutions.
The Western and Southern Life Insur
ance Company, which on nest Wednes
day, February 21!, the twenty-eighth an
niversary of the incorporation of the
company, will dedicate its new home of
fice building at Fourth and Broadwa)
The company has arranged a four
days' celebration, and the building will
be open for public inspection between
! the hours of 12 o'clock noon and :i p. m.
on Wednesday, l-cbruary 211; I hursday,
February 24, and Friday, February 23.
The Western and Southern Life In-
vania Railroad at Pearl and Egglestou
avenue, with a branch leading to the L.
and NT. bridge.
Tracks Above llili Water.
Practically all grade crossings are
eliminated in the plan and every yard
of track provided in it is several feet
above the highest water yet recorded
in a Hood in Cincinnati. Electrification
of the entire system is planned. All
streets crossing the subways of the sys
tem will cross at their present levels or
at better grades.
The plan has aroused great interest
among the practical railroad men to
whom it has been shown. These include
some of the highest officials among the
lines entering Cincinnati. It has also
been brought to the attention unofficially
of the members of the Interurban Rapid
Transit system. According to Mr.
Summer, the plan can be worked out
1 in complete harmony with the present
rapid transit scheme, his plan caring for
the railroads and the freight belt line,
or it can be used as a substitute for the
present rapid transit scheme by incor
porating the interurban entrances into it.
Should the latter be done Mr. Spring
er says that the interurban entrances
could be constructed at great economies
over the present contemplated entrance
inasmuch as the joint right of way
could be secured for practically the same
figure that it would take to obtain the
right of way for the steam railroad fea
ture, while in the cost of operation and
maintenance the traffic on the freight
belt line would go far to bear the hnan
i cial burden of the interurban entrance,
' Mr Springer estimates that the entire
Till
WKSTKKX AXI) SOl'TIIICltX
HUITT KV UXIOX IjAROII.
siiranee Company is a distinctly Cincin -
nati institution, managed by Cincinnati
men, and having $(i,000,ooo of its $10,-
.(ll).0(l(l in assets invested in Hamilton
County. Its new building was designed
bv a Cincinnati architect, built bv Cin
cinnati contractors, of material furnish
ed by Cincinnati corncerns, and erected
wholly bv union labor.
The Western and Southern was in
corporated in Cincinnati in ISSS and has
had a steady and substantial growth,
operating now in the six Mates of Ohio,
Indiana, Pennsylvania. West Virginia,
Kentucky and Michigan, having assets
of $l(),.i(i(i,(M)0 and business in force of
AOO.OOO.uod, The company's branch of
fices now number one hundred and
scheme would cost less than 20,ooi),ooo,
a figure almost half what a former union
depot plan was estimated at. The plans
have been reviewed by Charles A. Otis,
of Otis Mr Co.. Cleveland, and George
Bishop, President of the Washington,
Baltimore and Annapolis Railroad. It is
said that assurances have been received
that adequate financial backing can lie
obtained for the plan provideil it re
ceives the support of the people of Cin
cinnati. SKCUKTAKV WIIjMAMS DKAI).
Boston. Secretary-Treasurer Wil
liams of the International Stereotjpers
anil Klcctrotypers' union, died in this
city of pneumonia, lie was 71 years
old and was secretar.v-tieasurer of the
union for 14 )ears.
I'ltlSOXKK IS l)VIX(J.
ICinery Teeters, Churned With Min
der, Saiil To Have Tuberculosis.
Finer) Teeters, 112 years old, 1040 Ha
uler street, a painter, who, with four
companions, is charged with the murder
of James Shall at Christ Hospital several
months ago, probably will never be
brought to trial.
'feelers became ill at the County Jail
and was sent to the General Hospital,
where he was reported to be in a critical
condition.
Physicians say he was suffering with
tuberculosis in an acute stage and that
there is little hope for recovery.
The Building Trades Council
To Demand a Working Agreement With the Brewers'
Board of Trade. The Council Is Determined to Stop
the Breweries Hiring Scab Labor, Believing That the
Work Belongs to Them for Many Reasons.
The regular meeting of the Building
Trades Conned was called to order by
President Jos Cullcn. The minutes of
IXSCISAXCI - : COMl'AXY.
1 twent) and more than fifteen hundred!
people represent the company in various
capacities.
The new building was designed by
Architect Harry Hake, is of pure Greek
Ionic design, absolutely lire - proot
throughout, of Stone Mountain, Georgia
granite and Indiana limestone, and has
with its large basement practically live
stories, with a lloor space of approxi
mately tn.ono square feet, and its foun
dation is built to carry twelve additional
stories, which is to be added as the
growth of the company demands more
room.
A special feature is the spacious lobby,
entirely finished in Rookwood Pottery
tile.
IS CXIOXISM XKCKSSAKV
Winston-Salem. X. C The R. J. Rey
nolds Tobacco company docs not favor
its employes being organised, but to
show the deej) interest this concern takes
in the welfare of its "bauds" the fol
lowing notice has been posted :
"In the last pay day before Christmas,
1010. we will, upon recommendation of Sixteenth Ward, :t; Seventeenth Ward,
vour foreman, or the manager of vour :!: Eighteenth Ward. 4: Nineteenth
ilepaitine.it. give vou. in cash, two (2) ! Ward. I!; Twentieth Ward, .; Twenty -per
cent on total amount of all money , first Ward. I!; Twenty -second ard. .1,
you receive from us for any work you
did in 1013, if vou work regularly and
faithfully during the year 101(1, when we
have work for you to do. This offer
mav be renewed in 1017, for work done
in 'loin, and so on, from year to year,
if we find that it encourages you to in
crease vour earnings by good and steady
work when we have work for you to
do."
The average wage for this plant is
about $1 for a lo-bour day. The com
pany's offer means that'" an employe
works HOD days in the year which the
company hints is improbable lie will re
ceive $0 one year after he has worked
the :!)( days, providing he is "faithful"
and does not listen to trade union "agi
tators." wiiu-: mk.vs rxiox kxiuxds.
Detroit, Mich. As a result of vigor
ous and persistent agitation by officers
..ill tiiiMiilmrs n FliH-trlc.il Workers' un
ion. No. 17, HIS applications have been
received during the past two months.
the previous meeting were read and
adopted
Business Agent Hock read his report
for the week ending February 17, 1010.
which was ordered received and tiled
for future reference.
Ml trades reported business fair.
Under the head of good and welfare,
it was moved and seconded that the
Agreement Committee be and are here
bv directed to call on the Brewers'
Board of Trade and demand a working
agreement with the breweries. After
several speeches on the subject citing
numerous occasions where the breweries
use scab labor, the motion was unani
mous!) passed.
It is understood that this matter will
be pressed vigorously as the delegates
are tired of seeing scabs working on
buildings belonging to breweries; but.
in order to avoid the law. they organize
so-called reality companies, when, as a
matter of fact, the breweries own the
reaht) company.
There being no other business, the
meeting adjourned until next Thursday
night
I WILLIAM COOPER PROCTER
"(aTMrtl"A()ir.nrr-tirinrif'mrpwnr'
tin- Chicago Convention District
llepresentatives I'liaiiimously
Chosen.
ItcptihlU-nn County Central Commit
tee Announces Ward Apportion
ment For State (lathering.
William Cooper Procter, Cincinnati,
was indorsed unanimously for delegate
at large from Ohio to the Republican
National Convention at a meeting of the
Hamilton County Republican Central
Committee yesterday afternoon.
Former Mayors Julius Fleischmann
and John Galvin were indorsed as dele
gates from the First Congressional Dis
trict, and Stanley Struble and John J.
Burchenal from the Second District.
Indorsed for alternates were : E. W.
Edwards and Frank Kunkle from the
First and Edwin Winters and Dr. Louis
Schwab from the Second District.
The men indorsed will have to tile
their declarations of intention by Feb
ruary 23 to entitle them to run at the
April primary election.
Annortionment of the 111 delegates
and 111 alternates to the Republican
State Convention in June was made as
follows : First Ward, 4 ; Second Ward,
ti; Third Ward. 3; Fourth Ward, 4;
Fifth Ward. 2; Sixth Ward, 4; Seventh
Ward, I! ; Eighth Ward, 4 ; Ninth Ward,
4; Tenth Ward, :i; Eleventh Ward, :i;
TivMith Wnnl. 4: Thirteenth Ward, 4:
i.-01lr.,.nili Ward
1-itteetun ward, .(,
rwiMitv-third Ward, it; Twenty-fourth
Ward,'4: Twenty-fifth Ward, II; Twenty-sixth
Ward, 2; total in city, 01; bal
ance in county, 20.
The delegates will be chosen either b)
the ward executives or in mass meet
ing. Chairman Rud K. Hynicka presid
ed at the meeting.
1XCOMK ItKKAKS KKCOK1).
New York. "An extraordinar) story
of prosperity." is the term used by the
.Yen- York World in commenting on the
last financial report of the United States
Steel Corporation, which has recently
announced a 10 per cent wage increase
to its low-wage, long-hour workers.
It is shown that the trust's net earn
ings for the past quarter were $31,332,
788. or $3,720,080 larger than for any
previous quarter last year; dividends
resumed on the common stock at the
former annual rate of 3 per cent; a
surplus of $2.1..'!00.ti02 above all charges
and dividend
bank
.-siti.i.uim.uiiu casu in
mmmmim--
