The St. Joseph Observer
JLiil.
VOLUME IX.
ST. JOSEPH, MISSOURI, SATURDAY, FEP,RURY 19, 1016
N I'M HER 20
.'-"
I
V
c
-TO STARVE WOMEN
!
vThat Is HOW England Proposes
to Kill the Economic Life
of Germany
AD
, as promulgated by the National As-
ANT TTITTPPPV wrm tot? jsoclatlon of Merchant Tailors, from
AHJJ IHEREBYWINTHE whogp convcntlon Jonn Wt Patt ha8
WAR NOW RAGING' just returned.
Ily the dictates of this august body
'of clothes carpenters at their St. Louis
TThl. Is the Declaration of Doctor ' convention, the real Apollo, 1916
Eugen Kuehnemann, Professor of modd fully quipped, Is exactly five
Philosophy of the University of feet and slx ,nches taU wlth a walst
Breslau, Who Addressed the People llke a wnsp.s and llmbs Just t00 cute
of St. Joseph at the Lyceum Thurs. for anything. His head measure must
day Night In the Interest of Fair be Jll8t one.eghth of his fulHielghth,
Play for the Germans
The Lyceum was crowded to Its
capacity Thursday night when Dr. Eu
jjren Kuehnemann, professor of philos
ophy of the Imperial University of
Breslau, Germany, who was exchange1
."C jprofessor wjth Harvard until the out-i
g ) . . ,. . , , ,
w ( break of the war, arose to speak for
r
the Red Cross and in behalf of Ger-
. . ,,...
I many and her enemies. On the stage i
) , . . . . '
were seated many 01 me most promi
nent business and professional men
of St. Joseph, and they, with the
great audience, arose at the opening,
of the meeting and led by Rev. F. C.
KHck sang "America," after which a
short address was made by Fred Neu- t use(1 tQ ,ako nfne ta),ors tQ make
dorff.who presided, and introducing a nian but ,,. ,g t0 be no )onger tho
the speaker paid him a glowing tribute caS(J 0ne taor cnn accommodate tne
as one of the foremost scholars and new ,dea very handl,V( but lf the pre
teachers of the age. It Is seldom pai.edness prosram g0e8 through, the
that a speaker has a more Interested we)ght of tne e(,uIpment w, have t0
and appreciative audience than had be cbanged materially, for the 191G
Doctor Kuehnemann, and when he modd Amerlcan her0 couId never
concluded his address each and every carry jt
auditor had a better and In many '
SrSrU2e?ta irt Th? GeT EVERYONE KNOWS
now raging, and the part that Ger- TTrtWAPn
many is playing in It. , UliiliY HOWAKU
Among other things Doctor Kuehne-I
mann declared that the war was not!And Knows That He Is Making a
being fought only with shot and shell.! Great F,8ht t0 be Police
"England has declared her Intention," Judge
said he, "to kill the economic life of I
Germany. Nor does she propose to! Who is there In St. Joseph who
stop at that. She has openly avowed ' does not know William C. ("Billy")
her purpose to starve Germany to Howard, who for the past seventeen
starve the women and children. That 'cars has been signalphone operator
is how the enemies of the Father- at the St- Joseph police station
land are trying to beat her into sub- switchboard?
mission." And wno Is there tnat doPS not
"Even that," he said, "Is not the Wte this quiet genteel young man who
most atrocious thing in this war. It Is never happier than when he can
is not so unspeakably Inhuman as Eng-, be dolng a service for someone who
land's campaign to corrupt public I needs It?
opinion, to kill the moral personality' A"d who does not know but that
of Germany. One of the first acts of I
England after the outbreak of the war I
was to cut the trans-Atlantic cable to
Germany. That showed how willing,
England was for Germany to have a '
fair hearing before the neutral world."
Germany Did Not Want War j
Doctor Kuehnemann ridiculed the
assertion that Germany wanted war.'
Germany had proved itself the most
peace lovlnp, the most peaceful nation
In the world, he said, for Germany
alone of all the great European na
tions was continuously at peace since
1871.
"They say Germany alone was pre-
pared Tor this war. Germany had to
vv , . -, 1 .,..-
De prepareu iui m, iui am- o ou
rounded on all sides by strong ene
mies. Seventeen months have gone
by, and still our enemies are not pre
pared. And I tell you that our ene
mies, even England with all her hire
lings, cannot conquer our army, which
Is a nation In arms."
Russia's dream, her sole Idea, Doc
tor Kuehnemann said, was "land, land. .
land conquest on all sides."
"Ilusslan mobilization was the real
beginning of the war. It began as far
back as April. 1914, and it was an
utter surprise to Germany. Any talk
that Germany was prepared Is non
sense and stupidity." '
France, the speaker said, was ambi
tious again to become the first mill-'
tary nation of Europe. As to Alsace
and Lorraine, "87 per cent of the
population of Alsace speak German
as their mother tongue."
Resented Germany's Competition
rwnr Kuehnemann devoted a
great part of his address to England.
England resented Germany's commer
cial competition, he said, and Ger-
- nl,lBl.
many s encroacnmem uu u"""
world trade was one of the most po
tent causes of the war.
"We have proof," he continued, "that
it was England alone that decided the
outbreak of the war. Without Eng
land's help neither France nor Ilussla
would have dared make war on Ger
many, and in all tho time that pre
ceded tho war the roan who stood most
(Continued on Page Eight)
WHERE ARE THEY?
The Apollos Who Will Wear the New
I Clothes That Nineteen Sixteen
Tailors Demand
I
Almost all of St. Joseph's prominent
1 men are physical monstrosities, it ap
pears, and even Col. Joseph A. Corby,
once pronounced the most beautiful
'male In the city, will have to deliver
up his laurels or else telescope himself
to fit the dimensions of the ideal man
which would give him a dome of
thought about as big as a Iloston
baked bean If the eighth Is taken as
circumference, as Is probably In
tended. As a gentle hint to those whose
stomachs hae grown akin to hay
windows, the national tailors mention
. , . .,. , . , . . .
the advisability of using abdominal
i .. . .
innnraaonru nf u'hlnh uk hiuo Tr
suppressorB, of which we have no
plans nor specifications.
. , . ., , , .u
There is much method In the seem
lng madness of the tailor clan, for
they are evidently very tired of using
a whnlp hnlt nf crnnrln In Rhlpliltnp' thn
nakednegs of such 8lx.foot corn.fed
behemoths as obtain in Missouri and
,,,, hpaliv R.ntp9.
"BILLY" HOWARD
he will make a careful and conscien
tious police Judge, and that he will do
justice to all that come before him?
And who Is there that does not
know that be is a Democrat of the
trledandtrue type, and that be Is
qualified in every respect to fill the
office?
And who is there that, when Billy
says, "If you will elect me I will give
my full time to the office and will
always be in reach of those who want
to And me, end will give you my best
efforts," doea not know that be means
every word that be says?
...HbBMM
LbbbbbH xVfv
BaBaBaBaBaBw Bavc5& w"-A
B K
.
STANDS SQUARELY WITH THE
PRESIDENT
1 hat is Congressman
Position on the Question of
Preparedness.
An Unequivocal Answer to Those Who
Are Willfully Misrepresenting
His Attitude.
So much misrepresentation so much
uncalled for criticism so many un
true and Idle rumors so many mali
cious and unpardonable reports have
been set on foot and circulated in this
district, calculated to Injure Congress
man Charles F. Booher In an endeavor
to succeed himself In congress, or to
Injure him in the interest of some
one who desires to defeat him for re
election, by certain designing persons
and newspapers; by lnuendo and In
ference as to his stand on the ques
tion of preparedness, that, while to
his friends who have always known
that he has stood squarely with Presi
dent Wilson and his defense program
and has so declared himself from the
outset any further statement is un
necessary, yet It Is more than pleas
ing to be able to right at this mo
ment put a stop to the vicious and
malicious croaklngs of these purvey
ors of malice by a plain and unequiv
ocal statement of his position on this
BBBs!BBS9BlBVM:lBBBwt
CONGRESSMAN CHARLES F. BOOHER
. with the promise from the com-
much talked of question, from Con looking to the more efficient organiza-, ,Uee whch brought hlm here
L'ressman Booher himself 'Hon and training of the state militia, ,,.,..... .u
MrTnhTh.1 Iv h..,i f now called the national guard-and I and with the statement from the
Mr. Booher has repeatedl heard of tU3 p,an wl be orke( QUt andi4 platform by chairman Forbes in
these false allusions made regarding! a(lopted by congress this session. The the presence of the speaker, that
him, but feeling that he was at his reason the national guard has not been the addreBg WOuld be non-partl-
post in Washington attending to the more efficient I. t he fault of congress shou,d
duties assigned to him by the people HXjJn ,nB into the meeting.
who elected him. he has gone stead "The Se-cond Navy of the World ' Almost the entire address of
fastly forward and paid no attention, "The navy program has not been Estabrook's was devoted to critt-
i ..- .t.. . .i. .li . full., .lc.olnr.o.1 hut I hava nn lmil.l
L-uuBuiuua u. m iu niai m int.- urn-
ner given in honor of Hon. Charles
H. Grasty of Baltimore, by the local
branch of the National Security
League, he had fully defined his posi
tion and therefore need give his atti
tude no more publicity, jet his friends
here, tiring of the repeated circulation
of dishonest and unfair reports, ad
vised him to set at rest such insinua
tions, which he has done In the fol
lowing letter ln answer to Mr. George
G. Starmer, who wrote hlm with ref
erence to the rumors afloat. Exactly
how he stands Is shown by the fol
lowing excerpt which Mr. Starmer
permits this paper to publish:
The All Absorbing Question
"The question of preparedness is
the one great subject of discussion on
the streets of this city and in the
cloak rooms of the capitol. Occasion
ally some member, becoming so patri
otic that be cannot longer remain si-
REILLY ANNOUNCES
Will Make the Race for the Demo
cratic Nomination for Mayor
of St. Joseph
Barney Itellly, the well known at
torney and also amusement manager
and baseball magnate, baa finally de
AND HIS POLICY
Charles b . Booher s !
lent, breaks out In a fervid speech on,
the duty of the government to get
ready to lick someone Just who It Is
to be. the speaker does not know and
usually cares less. For Instance, Mr.,
finrdpnnr nf MneRncViiicttc anva "Ifa
Germany that menaces us," and Mr.' There are those who might get their ,he wI" be tne next
Mann of Illinois says, "England is Just' peculiarities their vanities and their I ll is so wrllten' and the truth ot tDe
ready to spring at our throats." Both Idlo3VnpraB,' ' ittpn lln mnr ..,.. writing will be attested by the voice
of thine gentlemen are eminent He- Il03ncra8les written up more volum- November
publicans and among the real leaders Inously in the city papers. But there. 0I ballot in ovember.
of their party. are no others now in the race for gov-1 " he win be the next President
His Former Statement , ernor, who know one half as much ot these Un'ted States is owing to the
"I have not changed my views from about the official and worka-day end fact tnat nc llas at last told the sec"
those expressed publicly at the Se-' of the Job as CornelIus noach. Please retary of state of Ohio that he may
curity League banquet in St. Joseph, remember tnU when r0nsidf.r tho P'a his name on the primary ballot
when Charles H. Grasty addressed the rememDer mis wnen ou consider tne ' ,, , A,, ,
great audience. I there said that I governorship. Lamar Democrat. t0 be used ln tnat state and this per-
stood squarely on the Democratic mission granted the people of the
platform of 1912 that declared for ade- WEBSTER IS GETTING BUSY United States will do the rest.
quate. national defense, and that t , . L Webstpr dop not nrotlo ' The Democracy of the nation has
would follow where President Wilson J,onn u wet)ster does not propose nPfllitv tn rmin!lto
would lead. I did not agree with Sec- to let the grass grow under his feet asked the opportunitj to renominate
retary Garrison on the continental during the coming summer. On the hlm' and with this granted, renomina
army plan for a great many reasons, contrary, he proposes to trample it tion w'" bo made by acclamation
Chief among them is that this country down ,n hlg race for h nomination and the people. It might again be
larrsecrad'thatThfXn "SSl" " democratic candidate for asses- addd. will do the rest.
generally unworkable. I always stood sor of Buchanan county. Webster Is What He Wrote
for proper legislation by congress, J a campaigner of that style which cap-1 And the president did not use many
' ,tures votes, and he and his friends words, either, In telling the secretary-
"'"""""" "'." w7." ",n
fhr pnmmlttpp nn nnvnl affairs will
report out a bill that will be satis- William J Bryan, Senator Wra. J. Swift 4. Company and the Other Pack,
factory to the country. The commit- Stone, and other Democrats who er8 Add to the Wave of Demo-
tee is made up of strong, able, patri- 4 are prominent In the public eye cratIc Prosperity
otic men. and the country should wait SQ h h, h an
patiently until we have the result of ,
their labor before us. We now have ralgnment of President ilson It is oIten the case when this paper
the second navy In the world, and and the Democratic party that mentIons Instances of Democratic
Admiral Fletcher in command of the 4. many people who went there prosperity In other sections of the
tSxj&Mi. : r;,h r,rihotraor8, ,ef,tht : w-that gopues and bunmooseys
we could successfully meet any foe. hall. Estabrook, when he noticed slng ln uniSOn, "Why don't you have
either in the Atlantic or Pacific ocean. people leaving, sought to back some 0f t here?" So Just for diver-
"I Stand With Wilson" up a little by giving Teddy the sIon and a8 a n,eans of placating
"You say that It is reported that I Terrlble Noise a twist or two, their easliy ruffled sensibilities. It
anm8;aga.nst any and all prepared- that m nQt hep mttm . bZrZZx I little Instance
"I am not responsible for what peo- for the a"dlence long ago had occurred right here In St. Joseph this
pie may say or some so-called news- seen through the transparency week m tr,is good year of our Lord
papers may publish. You will find me clearly. and of President Wilson,
following the lead of President Wilson Estabrook is a Republican- P(Twt,. thIs wpek the creat army
on all questions looking to the wel- . o. . oiin,t . . .. .. Ia Vo A Effective this week, tne great arniv
fare and happiness of the American, and be can l heIp w- ejl" " of laborers emploed by Swift & Corn
people and the security and safety of wise obsessed with the Idea that pany and he packing piants of St
our common country. He is a safe. he wants to be president of the Jogepn.8 great i,vestock market were
leader, a great president, and entitled U united States-and he can't help ..J; ,. ,. .,.. information that
to the support of all patriotic men.L . Therefore It Is not to be B welcome information that
regardless of party affiliations." " Ttiererore.il is noi to De the)r wouJd be lncreaged from
cided to make the race for the nom.' rnagnlflcent audience before hlm.
inatlon for mayor of St. Joseph. ( be 8hou,d he tempted-and fall
Mr. Kellly has had the matter un-l! !!TA . """f Z !
der consldpratlon for some time, but!
...... . . ...
no definite decision was reached until
this week, when he yielded to the Im
portunities of his friends and actively
entered the race. He will make a
strong fight for the coveted honor.
'KIND WORDS FOR ROACH
1 The Lamar Democrat Tells Why He
Should Be the Next Governor
of Missouri
Next to the governorship, Cornelius
Hoach holds the most Important posi
tion In the state government of Mis
souri. His office is a great feeder of
Z S S'JSTZ
and corporate Interests, and the com
piler of vital facts in Missouri's life
and history.
Before Mr. Hoach took this Import
ant office, he spent years getting Inti
mately acquainted with Missouri and
her people. He knows the state from
circumference to center, from Pemis
cot to Nodaway and from the Kansas
line to the Mississippi.
He attends strictly to his official
duties. He Is content to serve the
people, rather than to follow the spot
light. His personal conduct Is above
reproach. His official record Is
8traEht ag a dip
'8 ?-
The"e are other men who might
show UD better In si rirpRR nnrailp
propose to make the right showing to
win in the August primaries.
RAN FOR PRESIDENT
Estabrook Forgot His Prepared-
ness Program and Made a Re-
publican Meeting Out of It
'" It Is absolutely certain that the
next speaker that the local
branch of the National Security
. . . , . . . . .
league brings to St. Joseph to
talk preparedness will not be a
candidate for office at least, if
he Is a candidate, he will be
"tled tight enough" before he
speaks that it will be certain that
he will stick to his text and not
regale the crowd which has
! gathered to hear a remedy sug-
gested for the nation's unprepa,
. edness, with a highly laudatory
symposium of the reasons that
he should run for president of the
Pnitpii !e nn the nennhliran
l nited btates on the Republican
ticket.
And that Is exactly what Henry
D Estabrook, formerly of Ne-
braska but now of New York.
did when he addressed the 3.000
, people who had gathered at the
' Auditorium Tuesday night to hear
, him speak on "Preparedness,"
elsms of President Wilson, of
V wonuereu ui inui terms .ui-u . -r
. .. . .
me
cause of preparedness more
1 In St. Joseph Tuesday night
barm
than all of the orators that could
be imported for the rest of the
(Continued on Page Eight)
T
Allows Ohio Secretary of State
to Place His Name on the
Primary Ballot
BUT WILL NOT ENTER
INTO A CONTEST
And This Permission Precludes Any
Chance for Opposition for the Amer.
ican People Feel That the Pilot
Who Has So Courageously Faced
the Fiercest Storm of All History
Should Be Retained at His Post
Through All the Perils That Impend
Woodrow Wilson is the present
president of these United States, and
that he could place his name on the
ballot. There was none of the Roose-
, velt notoriety seeking waste of words
about It. The Ohio statutes provide
that candidates for delegates to con-
ventions must have the consent of
their choice to use his name and in
response to the Ohio secretary's re-
1Ut'St of the president that he permit
the use of his name, Mr. Wilson
wrote:
I am enclosing you a letter, the
occasion of which I dare say. will be
quite obvious. Friends In Ohio have
caUed my attentlon t0 Section 4954 of
the general code of Ohio as amended
in 1914 with regards to primate elec-
tions and have requested that I indi-
ea m willingness to have my name
', accordlngIy take the nbm. of
ending you the enclosed letter as
formal permission under the statute.
be 1 am entirely unwunng to
SWi&'lSZagSk
party, I am willing to permit the use
of my name that the Democrats in
Ohio may make known their prefer-
ence in regard to that nomination.
Jn ordpr tnereforei to satlsfy the
technical requirements of the statutes
of the state of Ohio. I hereby consent
to the use of my name as a candidate
fr the presidency b any candidate
who seeks to be elected a delegate to
tne natiouai Democratic convention.
which is to assemble in June next.
Has payed No Politics
whatever mav be said of some of
bjs tiredecessors and some who will
h, opposite sides Wood-
oppose mm on opposite sines, nuuu
row WUson nas pIayed no poUtics
wlln the presIdential office. He has
t used the appointive power or any
of the numerous Influences inhering
of the numerous
(Continued on Page Eight)
PTftTTT TTPVRT'. AT TTOTVTP.
JCVXVIXX X X1XJXVXJ ill I1W1UX1
thfi pregent rate , 17H centg per
hour t0 ,gl4 cen,8 per hour and ,n
addlton t0 lhat tney were to be K,ven
not less than forty hours per week In
. me oargain.
. ....
' And this raise comes voluntarily
there was no asking it of the powers
that be. It came from the fact that
the employers are enjoying the great
est business that they have ever had.
UN
GVES
CONSENT
