THE BARRE DAILY TIMES
VOL. XIX NO. 288.
HAKRK, VERMONT, SATURDAY, FKHRlTARV 19, 1910.
PRICE, OXE CENT.
TURKS FLEE
IN DISORDER
Bulk of Troops at Erzerum
Apparently Left the
' Stronghold
WHILE RUSSIANS
WERE ATTACKING
Reinforcements for the Gar
rison Were Long Dis
tance Away
While no news has been received of or
ganized resistance by Turks in the . vi
cinity of Erzerum since the Turkish
J. -1- .11 ; 4 m rt X, nn Kr
uungnuia m riu. night that evidence in their poawaaion
Russians, Pe rograd advices 'etht ,eJ tQ he conchl8ion . , , ,,rtIsh
it was thought pownblo the lurks would ,
GERMAN SEA ORDER
DECLARED ILLEGAL
United States Has Notified All American
Diplomats and Consular Agents Abroad
That Merchantmen Have Right
to Carry Guns.
Washington, 1). C, Feb. 1 9. A1 Amer
ican diplomatic and consular officials
abroad have been notified in a circular
communication from the state depart
ment that the position of the United
States is that merchant ships have ft
right to carry defensive armament.
This move, which became known yes
terday, is the first formal announcement
th'at the. United States does not accept
m legal the announced intention of Ger
many and Austria to sink armed mer
chant ships without warning after Feb.
20 as coming within international law,
It is thought certain that the question
of defining defensive armament will be
the bHHis of lengthy negotiations with
the central powers beginning when the
reply is received to the message outlin-
ng the views of the United States which
fount Von Bernstorff, the German am
bassador, has sent bis government. The
response is not expected before the last
of next week.
It was Rtated in German circles st
OFFERED POST
AT PETROGRAD
MUSICAL CONVENTION
AT EAST MONTPELIER
make a stand on the western edge of the
Erzerum valley, 11 miles from the city.
It is not thought possible that they have
been able to erect any powerful fortifi
cation there, however.
The latest Petrograd official statement
reported the Turks fleeing in disorder.
Details from the Russian side indicate
no large captures of men when the for
tress fell. The bulk of the Turkish
troops were apparently well on the re
treat westward at the time the inner
forts were taken, only the rear guard
taking part in the last day's fighting.
Reinforcements which the Turks were
sending to Erzerum are reported to have
been a five or six days' march distant
when the city surrendered.
Meanwhile the Russians are active
along the Black sea coast to the north
of Sebastopol, a dispatch reporting tho
bombardment of Vitzeau, 15 miles east
of Trebizoni. A Russian advance land
ward in the direction of Trebizond on
the coast north of Erzerum has already
been unofficially reported.
There appears to be somewhat greater
military activity in Galieia than for
some days past. Petrograd reports an
Austrian defensive on the Dneister, near
Uscieczko, the attack being launched aft
er intensive artillery preparation. The
assault was repulsed, it is declared,
Afsterdam advices indicate that some
important military movement may be
in prepartion on the western front.
tion of those in trans-Atlantic trade,
bad instructions to resist capture. It
was pointed out that the Clan MacTav
ish, sunk by the raider Moewe, the cap
tor of the liner Apparn, had fought with
her guns until she went down.
It also was declared that aboard the
Apnam was found a document containing
additions to the original confidential in
struction "to all British born sea cap
tains" and setting forth that "any sub
marine approaching a merchant vessel
may be treated as hostile."
Was Closed Most Successfully Last
Evening, Concerts Being Splendidly
Given Before Large Audiences.
The annual musical convention at East
Montiielier, conducted by C. F. Dudley
which closed Friday night, proved the
best ever, there being a large attendance
and much enthusiasm. Not much real
business was accomplished Thursday
forenoon, when tho convention opened
but at the afternoon rehearsal the actual
work of the convention began
Friday was a promising day, with
weather as mild as spring. A bountiful
dinner of chicken -pie, salads, rolls, cakes
ice cream and coffee was served by the
grangers to about 130 people. In the
afternoon a musical program was given
consisting of the following numbers
Duet, Mrs, Pike and Mrs. Young, "Come
Sing to Me ; encore, "Whispering
Hoi ; song, Mrs. L. 0. Hammett. "Sing
King, Birds on the Wing"; encore, "Little
Pink Roses"; song,, Mr. Bigelow, "For
the King' (Bonheur) encore, "Garden
of Roses" (Schmidt) J song, Mrs. Hattie
Wilhird, "Somewhere a Voice is Calling":
encore, "At Dawning" (Cadmnn) ; duet,
Mrs. Young and Mrs. Chappie, "Greet
ing"; encore, "Voices of he Past"; piano
solo; Mrs. Van Orinan, "Music Among
the Pines" (Wyman) ; eficore, "Old Black
Joe" (with variations) ; aong, Miss Cate,
"Who Knows? i encore, "Mother Ma-
Marye's Resignation Accepted. chroe"; song. Miss Patrick, "Summer";
Petrograd. via London, Feb. 19-George e".c.ore' :N Whtingaie aong, Airs. Kits-
T, Marye, United States ambassador to !"' A Little Bit or Heaven ' (Halt) j
v....;.. i.. : i t n... I encore. "Loch Lomond - none. Y: Lance.
state department that his resignation has I "Adoration ( lalmerf S; encore, AhI Let
David R. Francis of St. Louis
x May Have the Appointment
FORMER SECRETARY
OF THE INTERIOR
The Resignation of George
T. Marye Has Been
, Accepted
Washington, D. C, Feb. 19 A response
from Dr. R. Francis of St. Louis as to
whether he would accept tho ambassador
ship to Russia was awaited by the pres
ident to-day. Francis was secretary of
the interior under President Cleveland,
DISCORD IN FRATERNAL ORDER.
Burlington Lodge of Moose Secures In
junction Against Supreme Lodge.
Burlington, Feb. 19. Queen City lodge,
No. 1,530, of the Loyal Order of Moose,
a Vermont coiporation with rooms on
Main street in this city, has secured
troni Judge Willard W. Miles of the
county court a temporary injunction ' ratified the long pending and persistent
ERZERUM GARRISON
" LARGELY ESCAPED
Russians Did Not Invest the Place But
Carried It By Assault Kurds
Massacre Thousands of
Armenians.
Petrograd, via London, Feb. 19. A
semi-official news agent says:
'The exact number of Turkish troops
captured at Erzerum is not known, but
the greater part of the garrison got
away, as the fortress was not invested
but was caricd by assault. The number
of guns captured reaches 1,000.
"Before the evacuation Kurds merei
lessly massacred thousands of Armenians.
The city s defensive works were or
ganized by the German commander, Pos
selt, and are spoken of as admirable and
and embodying all the resources of mod
era artillery and engineering.
, "The latest advices indicate that the"
heavy Turkish reinforcements which had
been hastening to the aid of Erzerum
failed to arrive in time."
GERMAN OFFENSIVE
IS INDICATED
By Movement of Troops in South and
Central Belgium During the
Past Few Days.
Amsterdam, via London, Feb. 19. In
Ibe course of the past six days, great
German troop movements have occurred
in south and central Belgium, says a
dispatch from the frontier to 1 he Tele
frraaf. Long trains with artillery and in
fantry are running along the railroads to
the west and south and some small de
tachments are being transported via Lou-
vain, Wavern and Gremblox to the
southeast. Louvain, the dispatch adds,
is still a strong point of support of Ger
man strategy and many conferences of
high military officers are held there.
PASSENGERS SAFE;
SHIP IS ASHORE
British Steamship Comrie Castle Is Re
ported Aground Off Mombasa, Brit
, ish East Africa.
London, Feb. 19. The British steam
ship Comrie Castle is ashore on a reef oil
Mombasa, British East Africa. The pas
sengers have been landed.
against the Supreme Lodge of the World,
lAiyul Order of Moose, a corporation es
tablished under the laws of Indiana, and
with offices at Anderson, Ind., restraining
the latter lodge from entering the rooms
of the former or interfering with their
property or any of their members. 1 he
hearing on the question of making the i etl States in obtaining the naval base
injunction permanent will be held at the
office of County Clerk C. J. Russell at
1 o'clock Wednesday afternoon.
The petition for the injunction states
that a law suit against Queen City lodge,
jo. l,iM, of the Loyal Order of Moose,
has been started bv the Supreme Lodgi
of the World, Loyal Order of Moose, that
the name ot the latter organization w
similar to that of tho former, has been
used without their consent and has not
been registered under the laws of Ver
mont and that because of a trusteeship
secured by the Supreme Lodge of the
World, Loyal Order of Moose, upon the
money of the Queen City lodge, .No. I,ofli,
Loyal Order of the Moose, certain of
their just debts are and must remain un
paid until the trusteeship is removed,
the petition is signed by Ldward Laval
lee, trustee and agent, and Claude D.
Graton, solicitor of the Queen City lodge
So. 1,650, Loyal Order of Moose, and the
injunction was served upon R. Clyde
L Amoureux, acting deputy, supreme die
tator and agent of the Supreme Lodge of
the world, Loyal Order of Moose.
WAY IS INELIGIBLE.
Yale Pitcher Twirled One Season for Nor
wich University.
Xew Haven, Conn., Feb. 19. Nelson M
(Pie) Way of Manchester, N. II., Yale's
premier pitcher, will be ineligible for the
nine this spring, it was announced last
night. Way played baseball a year at
Norwich university before coming to
Yale and as he has already played two
yean at lalo he automatically becomes
ineligible on account of the three-year
rule.
Wav was a tackle on the football team
last fall and won the Princeton game by
sensational touchdown.
TALK OF THE TOWN
notice. All teachers whose homes are
way from Brandon left to-day
CAUSE UNKNOWN.
The Comrie Castle was last reported
at Marseilles on Jan. 19.
FEARS SEA RAID.
Lord Derby Thinks British Navy Might
Be Able to Stop It.
Mrs. Stella Brown of South Main
treet left the city this morning for
Schenectady, N. Y., where she will re
side.
Sprague Drennan. a senior in Dart
mouth college at Hanover, N. 1L, is
pending the week end at his home on
Washington street.
To-morrow at 3 p. m., in the opera
house, Hon. M. R. Patterson and Dr. M.
Swadener, well-known speaker on "Dry
merica. Hear them. adv.
George M. Marrion of Merchant street
able to be at his place of business on
Depot square, after having been detained
t home by an attack of the grip.
Ret. J. B. Reanlon of Ihureh street
has returned from Putney, where he was
called to attend the funeral of Barbara of the largest in the country engaged in
Lawrence, the little daughter of Dr. and the manufacture of pycric acid, which is
Me Dream." ? ,.
The evening program never was bet
ter. The chorus of 7 voices surpassed
that of other years i the rendering of
their parts," The program- was as fol
lows: Song, Mrs. E. Spencer, "The Angel
at the Window"; encore, "What a Little
Bird Told Me"; chorus song. Mr. Bige
low, "The Village Blacksmith"; encore,
"Roll On, Thou Dark Blue Sea"; duet.
Miss Patrick and Mrs. tlammett, "I Am
Waiting for the Lord"; encore, "Love in
May"; chorus; reading,' Dr. Lvnde, "El-
kanna B. Ackinson; encore, "Little Ba
tiste"; eong, Mrs. Bellows, "The Links of
Ixve'; encore, "A Prayef; chorus; piano
solo, sirs, van Orman; song, Mrs. Hattie
WiHard, "Sunset (Bnrk); chorus; song,
VY. Lance. "My Heart Goes Out to You";
encore, "Ah! Let Me Dream"; wading,
Dr. Lynde, "l nele 'LisluVs Spring Gun";
encore, "Another Tea Rebellion"; chorus.
At the close of the concert, supper wa
served, followed by a dawe, at which
Van Orman's orchestra I furnished de
lightful music. Thus ended the 18th an
nual conventionrwith pleasant memories
and avowed intentions of coming again
does not intend to violate any existing i m't "ear- ,jBst Montpelier" expressed
rights in the Fonseca gulf of Costa, I umr appreciation or the musical treat
Rica, Honduras and Salvador, which had i their hospitality to the out-of-town
been accepted, but he is requested to re
main at his post until the arrival of the
first secretary of the embassy, Fred M.
JJeanng, who is on his way from Ma
drid.
NICARAGUAN TREATY
RATIFIED, 55 TO 18
Provides a Year Option on Nicaraguan
Canal Route and Naval Base in
Gulf of Fonseca for
$3,000,000. . -Washington,
D. C, Feb. 19. The Sen
ate late yesterday by a vote of 55 to 18
ly opposed Nicaraguan treaty, whereby
the United States would acquire a ninety-nine
year option on the Nicaraguan
canal route and a naval base in the Gulf
of Fonseca for $3,000,000.
Included in the ratification resolution
was a provision declaring that the Unit
REPUTATION
HURT $30,000
Daniel J. Sully Is Awarded
That Verdict from John
Hays Hammond
PLAINTIFF SUED FOR
$1,500,000 DAMAGES
v
-aaaaaaaaaaaaBaaNBl
The Trial Has Occupied Five
Weeks in D. C. Su
preme Court
Washington. D. C. Feb. 19. Daniel J.
Sully of New York was to-day awarded
.$.'10,000 damages in his suit against John
Hays Hammond, who, he claims, at
tempted to destroy his reputation as a
cotton expert. A sealed verdict was giv
en by a jury in the District of Columbia
supreme court after a trial which occu
pied five weeks. The trial was made
necessary by a mistrial a year ago.
ullv sued Hammond for f 1,500,000.
PERHAPS 'TWAS THE
REST YES, IT
WAS THE BEST
The Best Annual Banquet Held By the
Italian Pleasure Club, Beginning in
Early Evening and Continuing -Well
Let the Participants
Tell You.
MIRTH-PROVOKING
"KITTY" ARRIVED
Spaulding Senior Class Thespians Put
On a Splendid Presentation and Won
Plaudits of a Large Crowd.
protested against the proposed require
ment.
Five Democratic senators voted against
the treaty. They were Chamberlain,
Martine, Clarke of Arkansas, Thomas
and Vardaman. Republicans who voted
against ratification were Borah, Clapp,
Cummins, Gronna, Jones, Kenyon, La
Follette, McCumber, Nelson, Norrig,
Smith of Michigan, Smoot and Warren,
Fifteen Republican, senators joined the
administration forces in support of the
treaty. Ihey were Brandegee, Colt, Dil
lingham, Dupont, Fall, Gallinger, Hard
ing, Lippitt, Lodge, McLean, Page, Poin
dexter, Sutherland, Wadsworth and
Weeks.
Immediately after tho Senate had act
ed, Senor Chammorro, the Nicaraguan
minister, said he would at once communi
cate with his government and that he
expected ratification of the convention
by his government would soon follow
and exchanges made to put the treaty
in force.
singer and their loyal support throusrh
out the convention. It was altogether
the largest and most imposing affair of
the season at East Montpelier.
NEWSPAPER WORKERS IN SESSION
MORE MENINGITIS.
One New Case Developed at Brandon and
Precautions are Taken.
Brandon, Feb. 19. One new case of
spinal meningitis has developed here
since Thursday, that of Miss Margaret
O'Connors, daughter of Mr, and Mrs.
John O'Connors. Miss O'Connors is a
student in the high school and her seat
is just opposite that of Miss Peabodv,
who developed the disease Friday and
who is in a serious" condition. This
makes five cases in all, two of which
Were Guests of the University of Ver
'""" monf at Burlington.
Burlington, Feb. J9. The annual meet
ing of the Vermont Press association
was held in this city vesterdav, and dur
ing the afternoon and evening the mcim
bers were the guest9 of the University
of Vermont, the afternoon session being
held at Billings library and a banquet
being served by the university in the
gymnasium in the evening. In the after
noon Dr. Taleott Williams, head of the
Colombia School of Journalism and Pres
ident K. L. Butterfield of the Massachu
setts College of Agriculture spoke.
Officers were elected as follows:
President, If. L. Hindloy of Rutland;
secretary-treasurer, John T. Gushing of
St. Albans; vice presidents for the sev
eral counties Addison, W. II. Wheeler
of ergennes; Bennington, Otto R. Ben
nett of Manchester; Caledonia, J. E. Ap
polt of Hardwiek; Chittenden, Joseph
Auld of Burlington; Franklin, D. M.
iobin of Swanton; Lamoille, L. P. Ihay
er of Morrisville; Orange, Miss Sara K.
Parker of Bradford; Orleans, D. W. Hil
dreth of Newport; Rutland, C. T. Fair
field of Rutland; Washington, Mrs. F.
N. Whitney of Northfield; Windham, W.
E. Hubbard of Brattleboro; WiniUor, C.
R-Jama8on of White River Junction.
The banquet last evening was prepared
and served bv the home economic de-
have been fatal. Dr. C. H. Beecher of
Burlington, a member of the state board jpartment of the University of Vermont,
of health, was in Brandon Thursday and the waitresses were Vermont girls
evening and administered serum to all who are students in that department. It
The 1916 class of Spaulding high school
had the honor pf putting on the first sen
ior class play in the new assembly hall
in the Soauldinii annex when they staged
the three-act farce-comedy, "The Arrival
of Kitty" last evening. The production
was staged in regular big theatre style
with a darkened hall and glaring loot
lights and the high school orchestra
which furnished the music, did its part
to produce the opera houee effect. Near
ly every seat in the body of the hall was
filled and several in the balcony. The
leading man, or lady, according to the
act in which he appeared, even gave the
customary curtain speech in which lie in
formed the audience that the same com
pany would fill another engagement in
the same hall Monday evening with
repetition of the performance.
To those who did not witness the play
last night it may be said without res
ervation that if they wish to be enter
tained they cannot afford to miss the
repetition. If they do not desire to
laugh, however, they are strongly ad
vised not to attend, for the play Is a
mirth-provoking one from the raising of
the curtain until the end.
Two college boys, one of them terribly
affected with that form of insanity called
"love," coupled with a complicated case
of mistaken identity, combine to make a
plot which is full of ludicrous situations
and clever dialogue. Winnifred Smith
in his character of "Bobbie Baxter" won
the applause of the audience many times
with his manly troubles in attempting
to pose ns a lady; Miss Ruie Angell has
before exhibited her skill in the charac
ter of a "maiden ladv," but easily out
did her former efforts in her role of
"Aunt Jane"; Edmund Loranger was a
scream in his portrayal of a greedy col
ored porter; while Cvril Marrion acted
the part of the sporty but hypocritical
"Uncle William" in a highly creditable
manner. Others of the caste were equal
ly good. In fact it was hardly possible
to pick the stars, for there was no one in
the play who failed to please.
The plav was staged under the direc
tion of Miss Eva Smith of the high
school faculty and spoke for itself as
evidence of her ability. The caste was
as follows: Sam, the colored porter, Ed
mund t. Loranger; ling, a bellboy, Wal
ter Mcllugo; illiam Tinker, Cyril Mar
rion; Aunt Jane, his sister, Ruie Angell;
Suzette, Aunt Jane's maid, Loraine Lor
anger; Jane, his niece, Ida Ml Carusi;
Bobbie Baxter, in love with Jane. D.
Winnifred Smith; Benjamin More, Stan
ley lassie; Jvitty, an actress, Tena
Hooker.
the victims of the disease. There will be
no Sunday services in any of the churches
nd all public gatherings have been post
poned by order of the health officer. The
was a ermont banquet, each county
of the state being represented by some
product. Addison wag represented by
flour, apples and honey; Bennington by
schools will not re-open until further i ginger ale; Caledonia by candy; Chit
But Four People Were Killed and Dozen
Were Injured by Explosion.
Syracuse, N. Y., Feb. 19. Four persons
were killed, at leust a dozen others in
ured, some seriously, and heavy prop
erty damage was caused by an explosion
last rnght in the JSplit Kock plant of the
Semet-Solvay company.
The plant which was developed since
the
tenden by milk, cream, cream cheese,
flour, malt products, vegetables and can
dy; Essex by potatoes; Franklin by ma
ple syrup; Grand Isle by fish; Lamoille
by butternuts and maple syrup; Orange
by maple sugary Orleans by cranberries;
Rutland by cheese; Washington by but
ter and crackers: Windham by paper for
menu cards and leaflets; Windsor by
apples, asparagus and turkeys.
One other feature of the day was a
complimentary breakfast at the Van
Xess given by Editor Arthur Howard of
Burlington.
WESTERLY QUARRY-
MEN GET INCREASE
UP TO 15 PER CENT.
heUr; VERMONT MARCH 7.
Mrs. H. H. I-awrence,
In a series of four lectures beginning
Sunday night. Feb. 20. at 7 o'clock in the
auditorium of the First Baptist church
and continuing for four successive Sim
days, Dr. -I. F. Piani proposes to proe
that e are living in the best age of the
worlds history. The subjects to be
Lherpool. Feb. 19. "I have always he. j treated are: (li -The Komnn Empire, as
lieved," s i-l Wd Derby, dire. tor of re- ihe F.mbo.liment of All That Is Ter
.ruiting, at a working men. mass met- verse"; (2, 'The Barbarian Period, as
nir hn lt niuht 1h.t mrr or l.tor r.mixxiimeni oi raimre lor .imrn
used in explosives and synthetic dves. It
has been heavily guarded day and night.
The cause of the explosion has not been
ascertained.
NECK WAS BROKEN.
A. M. Covey's Body Was Found in a
Grafton Wood Lot.
Announcement Made That the Westerly
Granite Manufacturers' Association
Would Put Bill Into Effect
March 1.
Westerly, R. I., Feb. 19. The Wester
ly Granite Manufacturers' association
has announced a 13 to 15 per cent in
crease in wages of the 200, members of
the local quarry workers' union, effective
March 1.
BODY TAKEN TO MARSHFIELD
Ten years of club life, a decade of con
structive efforts for the upbuilding of a
successful association ot young men
withal an unbroken period of activity
alonif social and other lines, were eeie
brated last evening when members and
guests of the Italian Pleasure club as
sembled in the Knights of Columbus hall
for the clubs annual banquet, gambol
and dance. Measured by as many differ
ent standards as there are banquets,
fiances and other jollifiAitioms to be
found on the records of the club, for each
yearly event has had a flavor of its own,
last night's gathering was tho most suc
cessful in the history of the I. P. C.
Besides tho moving spirits in the club,
the stay-at-homes, or the faithful 40, as
the active members prefer to be num
bered, there were present several former
members whose quest of fame, honor and
the elusive simoleon has led them out be
yond the bounds of their home town.
Which is forgetting to mention that each
member grasped the Opportunity to in
vite a guest. Homage was paid to a
number of ''I., P. Cb" who are so far
away from home that their presence last
night Was impossible. Nevertheless it
was a trulv representative gathering of
the stock that has infused life and en
ergy and animation into the club in the
10 flourishing years of its lusty young
existence. The hall was most attractive
ly decorated, thanks to the late-o'-nights
pondering and meditation of the head
decorator, Delle Merlo, who must have
captained a very capable crew of assist
ant decorators, for the appearance of the
hall was unlike any of the other interior
arrangements ever attempted by th e
club.
A coterie of Italian housewives had
charge of the dinner and their handling
of this phase of the annual get-together
was beyond criticism. Here is the menu:
Antipati; queen olives, celery, tomatoes,
cucumbers, salame misto, antipaeto in
scatole, acciughe, sardines; vitello tonne
consomme alia parisienn?; giardinera
alia bolognese; pesce alia genovese, puree
ut patate; pollastro alia caociatora; vi
tello arrosto, insalata all Itaiana: des
sert, gruviera, ice cream, dolci, frutta
cafe noir.
After the banquet came the customary
post-prandial exercises with just enough
vaudeville interlarded to keep the toast
master, A. H. Fasnla, who in everyday
life is the president of the I. P. C, iook-
ing three ways for the book. Nearly
every member of the club and others who
only aspire to be members had something
to do in the entertainment. If a mem
ber was overlooked, it wasn't really an
oversight and the vaudeville committee
said so in so many words. It was be
cause he was too lamo to dance, too
hoarse to sing or too far from the punch
bowl to whistle. No one who made the
slightest pretext to being talented was
slighted. : The only serious feature of
the afterdmner exercises was the presi
dents address of welcome and then all
was merriment. Clint. Merlo gave a
crayon study in Black and J. Z. Frontini
related sOme of his "personal touch" ex
periences with Garry Herrnian in New
York last fall.
Other numbers followed in such dizzy
succession that it was absolutely impos
sible to register them all, but out of the
maze the following contributions were
gleaned: Song. "I Fell Into the Fountain
of Youth," Joseph Merlo; "The Man
Who Locks Up the Town," J. W.
Stumpf ; "Why 1 Wear a Wrist Watch."
P. U. Bianchi; "The 1915 Scoppa Cham
pionship," W. B. Marrion; solo, "I'm
Night Clerk at the Grave Yard." S. II.
iiudici; dancing skit, Dr. O. E. Barr:
duet, "You Made Me What I Am," D.
McMillan and A. S. L slier. "During the
program regrets were expressed over the
absence of Leslie Wright, S. Milne,
George Stewart, Henry Watkins and
Tom Marrion.
Orchestral interludes added to the
gaiety of the program and it was wear
ing well on toward 10 o'clock before the
dancing began. At midnight a dainty
buffet luncheon was served and at the
threshold of the new day most of those
who paused in the terpsichorean pastime
long enough to join in the refreslunents
were ready to resume their dancing.
Members of the general committee in
cluded: A. If. Fasola, president; Peter
Merlo, vice-president; Alfred Gerbetti, i
secretary; Joseph Merlo. treasurer; Dan
iel Keefe, James McDonald, A meent Cat-
to, Armando Comolli. As previously
whispered, D. Merlo had charge of the
decorating committee, and the invitation
committee consisted of John Frontini,
Mario Reffi and Henry Fasola. D-incan
McMillan. George "Hud" Troup, William
.Milne and Robert Wright made up the
dance committee.
Mrs. A. Mocbetti catered for the din
ner and her way of serving the several
courses was the subject of many favor
able comments.
ONLY CONTEST
IN SIXTH WARD
Alderman Bruce Defeated
Henry Alexander for Al
dermanic Nomination
TWO OTHER ALDER
MEN RENOMINATF
v
Healy Named in W Two
and Keast ir '
FottA-
ard
MONTPELIER WOMAN RAIDED.
After Funeral of Taylor 0. Parker Was
Held in Barre.
Funeral services for Taylor O. Parker,
whose death occurred Thursday after
noon, were held at bis late home, 110
South Main street, this forenoon at 10:30
41 ' ' I . . . . .
1. vei mans w in anemia m treiii. M'l i - : - , , . , , ... , , . . . - - - , -. .... .n ... , n n , .
ram on this country and that noaeer i -'.'i a omi nmn an.i rv. (v m - - - - , ,lln lne rv llsl tl UJ laKP oniy . the grave were: i.eorpe r.. itoni. r . . isum me uousr n mi. . . .noun inn
well organized the 'navy is it w ill re.t Sin": 4' "T1" le-ent as Center of ton. Mr.l.ovey, who was about .53 years states to make the nation dry and I I-j p. srr,, Albert Ijimlw-rton nd If. D. Mc-i f'-und nothing, no rret lcinz made,
be able to stop it but I beliete the army Mi-sionary Enterprise and B. tterment." iof PP- "", n,,t ",mo bo"' when expect- i(ve we ,rc ,;, U) s.-e that thing. The Un'Iis. Among those who went from I Walter Burke changed bis pi, -a of not
and navy are now so co -ordinate, that A j,l'lKn"-Tt for the plaintiff to rmner (1 jauhter went to the lot and south and middle W est are practically j Murjr to attend the commital services ! guilty of hre, h of the p. .-, to a .Pa
oration"; (3 1
And Dry United States Inside of Five
Years.
Prof. C. S. Longaere delievered a very
strong temperan-e lecture in the opera
house last night to a good-sized audi
ence. He said in part:.
"Fellow citizens: I am not a prophet : 0", lock. Rev. J. B. Reardon. pastor of the
nor the son of a prophet, but I am going j I'nivcr-alist church, officiating. The
to venture a prophery, and that is that bearers were: V. E. Avers. W. A. Brad-
nn Atari'!, 7 Vvrrnnnt u tit irr .In- mil 1 W II lr.l mil C X k'nnriw
I!1 - V..I1. L-.l. in 1 ,1 - - I" " . ... ...........
.x-.io.. r..-. r.o. iearm-.i itnat Wfi,if , of five-years, the nation will The remains were taken later to
here yesterday that the body of A. M. !
The t Iiristmn Answer to ..., ,iT a.i.rnw.n iy- Up,.,,, e have no : 19 states hi.h are the Dwinell cemeterv. The hearers at
Only one contest developed in the citi
zens' caucuses in four wards of the city
last night, that being in the sixth, where
Henry Alexander was opposed to Alder
man A. E. Bruce for the nomination for
alderman and was defeated by the pres
ent encumbent of the office by a vote of
40 to 28. Immediately after the caucus
Mr. Alexander's name was filed with tho
city clerk as a candidate for the posi
tion under the designation of "Independ
ent," the signatures of eight men bciri'f
attached to his papers.
Besides having the only contest, tho
sixth ward caucus was the most largely
attended of the evening. The city court
room was crowded when Dr. Joe W.
Jackson called the gathering to order
and superintended the organization,
which was completed by the election of
Earl 11. Davis as chairman and Arthur E.
Campbell as clerk. In retiring as tem
porary chairman, Dr. Jackson took the
occasion to etato that he was not to be
a candidate for school commissioner, his
term expiring next month, and he also
thanked the voters of the ward for their
support during the years of his service.
Dr. Jackson's announcement seemed to
take the caucus by surprise, and there
was considerable delay when nomina
tions for the candidacy for school com
missioner were called for. After a time
the name of William H. Eager was placed
before the caucus and, there being no
other nominations. Mr. Eager was chos
en the candidate by acclamation.
NVhen the aldcrnianic nomination came
up, things took a more lively turn,
James Smart promptly nominating
Henry Alexander and James Curtis nom
inating Alderman Bruce. There were nu
merous eecondings. Voting was by bal
lot, the tellers being Messrs. Smart, Cur
tis, W. H. Eager and Bernice E. Xew-
coinb. There was a temporary halt in
the voting while the caucus was tardily
making1 rules for governing the voting,
it being decided that eligibility to vote
in the caucus should be the same as
eligibility to vote at the election next
month. Under that regulation one vot
er was challenged and, later, was dis
qualified from voting in the ward.
the count of the vote showed a total
of CS cast, of which Alderman Bruce had
40 and Alexander bad 2S. whereupon
Chairman Davis pronounced the former
the nominee of the caucus.
Two-Minute Session in Second Ward.
It took two minutes bv the clock to
transact the business before the ward
wo caucus, which nominated Alderman
J. A. Healy by acclamation as a candi
date for his present position. The cau
cus was called to order bv M. S. Rounds.
William Wishart was elected chairman
and Frank L. Small clerk. Guy R. Var
nurn presented the name of Mr. Healy
for alderman, and the nomination was
seconded by J. F. ITigcins. Xo other
name being presented, the vote was by
acclamation and the caucus adjourned.
Rapid Work in Fourth.
A schoolroom full of ward four voters
met in the Brook street building and
nominated Alderman Edwin Kenst as al
derman in a caucus which required less
than three minutes to transact the bus
inyss at band. Duncan McMillan called
the meeting to order and "William T.
Calder and William W. Russell were
elected chairman and secretary, respec
tively. The name of Alderman Keast
was placed in nomination by L. J. Good
and variously seconded. As there were
no other candidates, the secretary was
instructed to cast one ballot for Mr.
Keast and adjournment followed immedi
ately. Comolli Again in Fifth.
With only the choice of a school com
missioner before them, only a handful of
voters of the fifth ward responded to the
call. In plain figures there were onlv 10
voters present when A. M. Roi called
the meeting to order in the ward five
schoolhouse. Silvio L. Cardi was ele ted
chairman and Joseph Comolli secretary.
A. M. Rossi was instructed to cast one
ballot for Joseph Comolli, the holder of
the office at the present time. -Mr. Co
molli was loath to accept the office for
n second term but after urc.'nt nijuest
he acceded to the wishes of those reiv-
senting tlie "u ondclmck Knolr
Held in Montpelier City Court Under
$300 Bail.
Mrs. Mary Abbiatti of Montpelier ap
neare.1 in Montitelir pit v court Wl-
dav afternoon , the -W. l-i. ".' ""oo-lchmk Knoll" d.strict.
intoxicating liquor with intent to sell. 1 h" '"0'""2 th"n '"'i0''"'"'
She was put under bonds of .!it, fur- I
nNlied by Joseph Bianchi. and her CflPI it ICTC V 1V
will be beard ilnn.l.v Tli. rrf fI. OUCLVL13 1 3
lowed a raid on her houe Friday after
noon when Chief Connolly and 'officers
Baldwin, Sloan and McDonald found a
quantity of U-er. wbi-key and wine. The
liquor was held by the rourt under n
bail. On the eame expedition the otTi.vrs
even if a raid comes it ill be prai ticai
Jy inoperative, and that those who come
will Is" w ipej out."
Colchester Peeple Married in Montpelier.
Guisrppi Ixnoe and Th-ric Ainoni,
win oi v oicneter, were marnel in
was retirrned in city court to-day in the I tounu mm u. a.t witfi tin neck broken, it irr now were Mr. and Mrs. Ceorire E. Bond Mr. if cuill v Frid.iv afternoon and was -n-
.je.tm.nt proceedings brought bv lieorge ' n"1 " "" ecinoni oocurreo. ..Tie preatp,t enemy of man to-dav is'and Mr. F. W. Pear.-e and Mr. and Mrs
1. Berkley of Liiwrty street against John j -Mr- Covey formerly Was road commis- tb(! jqur ,i,.ln0B. . Jt 'del rov the p.'-a. !'. V. Kenvon.
Brevhin, who reside in the ame neigh-I ner for (.rafton. bad been selectman, ;of tj,e imfi breaks d"n the bulwark- "
bnrhood. A derision on the part of the j"""1 epreented (.rafton in the l.-giU- jof thf! fa Tt.ilv. debauches American nti- John Vercne of Park street i. in r.
GORDON FOR MAYOR
Also Nominated Fred W. Suitor To Be
Candidate for City Clerk and Treas-
urer Some Other Offices Were
Passed Over.
Socialist in their city rauriin at t'e
ranite str.-et auditorium lit eciiini'
counsel to k for a iurv trial in the11""" in s'on of lfllO. He was the
case was r-alle. ve.ter.liv and an ad owner of a sawmill.
Montr!"' to-day by Justice of the IVaee 1 f .lm,. .'. k.
H. C. Short I.-ff. , i fixed bv the city rrmrt magistrste. It is
Cold Weatber Halts let Races.
On account f eld w-tn-r. th
la Probate Court.
In probate court this afternoon Thorn
a Reynolds of Mor.-town was appoint.! '
j tt-d that the lef.-m!ant t mot ing bis
j Iimiiw hold g ! from Ljl-ertv stmt t i
iff 1H! n Urort. Uilham i-!irt an- Ke nold. Ut of Moreton n. and t he will i rieht to 11 or tri e to another m.n t
t Mntpe!!-r mrrr not poned tltM.pearml for Mr. IV Icley and tiw defend- of Marcarct Gannon. 1st of Mont nelier. 'which will nuke him a eriminal m
aitrrnoon i orx tL ant was rrrecr.te.l njr a. A. arg-tt, was tied for j-robate. jrrt for the insane asybjni."
fenced to not lew than four month nor ! ii.mii. nut 4 Botx-rt l.or.ii ns their nm
more than fite months in the house of joraltv candidate in th- Mar.-h .!. t in.
correction. alt'iout'h the remainder ot the ticket
- not whoilv nid te.1. Kr. if V. -1 n t r
lenship, threaten the very existence ofireii't of a letter from his son. John Ver-! W M. of Afimrp, a iVpulv in- irc-rUed the nomination a .'.indi-iato t"r
the republic and rutl.lejy awails therw jr bo ha been riouly ill of ; sprrtor connected with the ofTue of -the i-fli.-es of city . lerk and rsty t r.-i. n -most
sacred inheritance of every man, j pneumonia in Irnver. Col stating that nr E. t'arp-ntr, state eommi-ioicr j cr and Alexander Kit hi.-. Antonio r.roj:
woman and child, the rieht of life. li!cr- he now well on th road to recovery. !f weight and measo-e in XorthtieM. gi and l ingi t ajoralitti were nominated
ty and happiness. It is a business which Prei.u a J vice from tbe young man' a iitor in the city-yesterday and i to stand h -andidte for the auditing
has ih constitutional rieht. became our i idii-tit-ian ttd that hi eon.btuMi w ! t .J. v. While here Mr. Sowk-a Tidied ar-L .iUert PluiiiiiV nmiMt
a !n:ini!-tratir of the etate of .lame T. (constitution docs not gne one mm alicrv critical and reanrarK-es from Cie the tiird tet to a mraW of Urcr ;... for three v.-r -
!'! te ; t
ty tnk.t.
hat '. r.atier.t hime:f that be i contlecinir 1- '","t town and atto in;eitd -wrt'
nb-lere erv gladly re.ened iy hi Tela- rt"' r'-- 't. ! nM in 5 rrnlile r--1
tiM" and trend" In Barre. t" 'ment" - i jj eomniWifts, n M.nn
an- i-'st.-
