A
j(e
FULL LEASED
WIRE DISPATCHES
4-
CIRCULATION IS
OVER 4000 DAILY
QJ 01 DO
Hi
MIL
I... . I ' i J ' . "".I . .' 1
if
iTHIRTY-EIGIITH-YEAR
EDI1 SAYS GERMANY
WILL'RUNAMUCKATSEA
Declares If Germany's Proposals Are Refused She Will
Have Paid the Last Debt She Owes World and Humanity
V: -Will Proceed To Be More Frightful With Complete
Indifference to the Views of Neutral No Stars or
Stripes Will Protect Ship In War Zone
. ,
London, Feb. 19. Germany must dis" ard neutral
rights in fighting for her own salvation, i ss the allies
soon agree to peace, the Times today quo; Maximilian
Harden, a foremost German writer as declaring in Die
Zukunft, publication of which has been resumed under
government permit.
"If Great Britain yearns for proof that we cannot
wound her heart with submarines and aircraft, and if
she will not discuss peace until this has been proved," the
Times quoted Harden, "the United States must reconcile
itself to the conviction that no further hesitation will
cripple our submarine warfare and no stars or stripes
will protect a ship in the war zone."
He declared Germany would have been content with
defensive measures six months ago but that now she dare
not wait upon such a course, but instead must pursue an
offensive to prevent her own extinction.
In this connection, he wrote that while Germany's
economic position is not yet embarrassing, other harvests
and fresh sumilips nf raw inntprinla will haonma innvoaa.
j- v . " i"4 WVVV111V VHO
ingly difficult to obtain if Germany does not reach out for
fresh conquests and strike heavily. '
"There is still a short space of time in which Germany
might come to terms," he said. "These peace offers
might include a little disarmament, a little international
socialism and a proposal to pool war expenses. If these
proposals are refused, Germany will have paid the last
debt she owes the world and humanity, and can proceed
to be more frightful than ever with complete indifference
to the views of neutrals, particularly the United States."
Wiishington, Fob. With t':ie Teu
ton snliriiarine rnniginigu nyainst armed
liiprcli.mtmen pCfective only ten days
hence, the Aniericnii policy toward this
new move assumed dcfiniteness today.
T'lis will be along the following lines:
T!ie I'nitiM States will ask Oermany
for asurnces that this eaniiaisa will
not violate the husitania or Arabic
)le.l(8.
America will ninintain the ri)jht of
merchantmen to arm for defense as
heretofore.
She will contend for the riiht of
neutrals and iion-conibntants to take
j'as.ige on armed ships.
The administration will not wara Am
ericans not to travel on armed vessels,
ncr will it declare any inflexible rules
governing defensive measures.
This government will not join Swe
den or any other neutral nation in a
joint protest against the Teuton armed
s!;ip decree or jgainst belligerent in
terferences with the rights of neutrals.
In the meantime, state department
experts are studying a mass of preced
ents covering the many international
problems involved in the new position
of the central powers.
The week end saw a respite, in German-American
diplomatic negotiations
oud Ambassador Von Bernstorff did not
plan to confer again With Secretary of
State Lansing, until he has heard from
Jierlin as to the foreign office position
toward America's latest requiremeats
for settlement of submarine differences.
In official circles the belief grew that
rinany will postpone operation of her
( decree. Von llernstorff is thought to
have suggested this to Berlin, though
the state department showed clearly it
would not ask postponement.
-
Ik
We nil git wh.'.t's coniin' t' us
whether we wait or keep movin.' lit';
all th' substitutes fer greatness money I
is. the poorest. i
The administration is preparing notes
to Austria and Uennany outlining ob
jections to the decree, but it will not
day down hard and fast rules con
cerning armament.
Indignation In Germany.
Amsterdam, Feb. 1!. Reports that
the Ijiited States will not submit to the
Teutonic tlcree of warfare upon arm
ed merohaiftnien has caused indignation
in Germany, according 10 advices today.
The Cologne Gazette, a paper close to
the German government, declared that
the Teutons will not curtail their right
to sink armed ships because reckless
neutrals insist upon traveling upon bel
ligerent vessels.
Other papers were astonished at the
Washington advices, but for the most
part awaited conf'irinatioa before com
menting editorially, in general how
ever, they declared that Germany will
not withdraw the decree merely be
cause Kngland has given assurances to
America that guns will be mounted only
for defensive purposes.
They added that such assurances had
beeu broken by England and that her
armed ships had taken the offensive
against submarines.
Germany Has Blundered.
Washington, Feb. 111. That Germany
has blundered in her decree of war
against armed merchantmen and realiz
ing it, is now trying to find a way out
of her difficulties the interpreta
tion put upon Untied Press Staff Cor
respondent Ackerman's dispatches here
today.
The fact that he revealed that Ger
many does not want to be questioned
too closely about the decree was the
first word of how the Teutons view
America's refusal to concur in the de
crees. And it is believo.l !,. .
stituted a hint that despite the tter-
...... ui lue merman pres, the kaiser's
government recognizes it has placed it
self in a very awkward position. Inas
much as Ackerman did not state that
.Germany will not reconsider its decree,
it is accepted heir as an indication that
Berlin may be willing to vield to the
mted Hati lut is puzzled how to do
wo without raising an outcrv in Ger
many. Though Secretary Lansing would not
comment on the Ackerman dispatch an
other department officiul aid:
"Austria and Germany have blund
ered. They made a mistake in issuing
the decree, which, in effect, is aa ulti
matum. The principal effect it has had
thus far is to impair seriouslv relations
between the t'nited States and the cen
tral powers. At a time when there was
some sympathy with their contention
about armed whips, the Teutons issued a
decree to which the L'uited States could
not possibly accede.
"Our position, already off ii-iallv- ex
pressed, is that any modification of the
armed merchantman phase of interna
tional InW Cflll r.llW- a nnl.:n....J l.
agreement of all parties concerned anil j
that it is as much a usurpation of au-
thnrity for the central powers to mnkei
the declaration thnr ffiev did, as it '
would be for the "nited States to j
(Continued on I'agj Eight.) '
FEATS OF GERMAN COMMERCE RAIDER NOT ALL TOLD, SAYS BERG;
HAS NO FEAR THAT BRITISH WILL CAPTURE MYSTERIOUS MOE V, LI
1.
XTs3toGnF "X
.tf'V.
''npcain Hans Berg; only baby on
'Mptains of
Norfolk, Va., Feb. 19. (Specials
Lieut. Hans Berg, who with a crew of
22 Germans, brought tho captured Bri
tish liner Appara to Hampton Bonds af
ter a voyage of over 3,000 miles from
the Canary Island, talked of the Ger
man raider that captured the vessel and
the voyage of the Appam. He declined
to give a description of the Moewe.
"She is a good vessel," he said. "She!
is hotter than the average craft we call
freighters. I would feel as safe on her
as I would on a cruiser. She cannot
be sunk esily and she can fight oh,
she can fight terribly."
"Did you really come through the
Kiel canal on the Moewet" lie was
asked.
"That, my friend, is a war secret.
Do you think a vessel with Runs fore
and aft, with mines, torpedoes and
ammunititon of many kinds on bon"
could get by many enemy warships? If
yon believe it possible to dp that, then
I will say we came from Kiel. We did
not grow in the Atlantic ocean. We di"
not find guns on the shores around the
Canary Islands, and what ammunition
we got off captured ships would not
WILL STIE UP ENGLAND
Washington, Feb. 1!). The
state department admitted to
day it is consideriwng sending
Kngland a "reminder" that she
has not answered the American
protest against mail seizures. It
was explained, however, that
the "reminder" would contain
no hint of a time limit within
which to answer tne American
objection. Instead it will mere
ly urge that a prompt reply be
made, and it will point out Hint
seizures continue, to be annoy
ance of this government.
If Report Is True England
May Be Made To
Remember 1812
Washington, Feb. 19. A British
battleship stopped the liner China off
the coast of japan and eizl 38 pas
sengers, mostly second class, according
to a report of the Shanghai agent of
the company to its San Francisco of
fice, , which was telegraphed to the
state department today.
Flew tho American Flag.
San Frnncisco, Feb. 19. Reports that
a warship had stopped the liner China,
flying the American flag, off tho coast
of Japan and had seized a number of
German refugees on board who were
en route to America, reached the China
.Mail Steamship company today, accord
ing to A. M. Garland, a high official
if the company.
(Continued on Pago Eight.)
SALEM, OREGON, SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 19, 1916
-I
R
I V V-v.
i i '
. ..
Appam when Germans captured it; Appam at anchor at Hampton leads'
British vessels sunk by German commerce raider.
have sunk one of the vessels we cap
tured. Long Out In the Atlantic.
"We were in the Atlantic long be
fore we sank the seven ships you
have heard of. You. will hear of other?
that have gone down from shells fired
by tho Moewe."
"But don't you think the British
fleet will capture and sink the
Moewet"
"They will not know her. She has
flown tho British flag and passed Bri
tish warships before. She has answered
their signals. She has told them the
there were no German ships around. She
can give any name she likes. She hat
no name that they can see.
"If they chase her it will be a fine
race. 1 would like. .to seo it. She
will run them perhaps all the way to
America. She is so fast she could have
captured the Appam if we had advised
Captain Harrison 10 miles away that
we were coming after him.
"We captured the Appam by fool
ing the enemy. That is a part of
war. We circled around him, saw lie
was no match for us in a battle and
then closed in on him. When a naval
L RATES
SAME IB SEATTLE
Commission Holds Undue Dis
crimination Made Against
Oregon Port
LOW RAIL RATES GAVE
SOUND BIG-ADVANTAGE
This Was Special Inducement
to Make Ocean Liners
Pass Up Astoria
Washington, Feb. 19. Rates between
I'acific coast cities and the Inland Em
pire of eastern Oregon, Washington and
Idaho will undergo sweeping revision
as the result of today's interstate com
merce commission decision upholding
the complaint of Astoria, Ore., agaiost
the Spokane, Portland It Seattle rail
way and other lines.
1' nd ire discrimination was found to
exist in favor of I'uget Sound ports
under the existing rates, and the de
cision places Astoria on a rate parity
with Seattle and Tacoma.
The commission commented on the
fact that ocean liners do not stop at
Astoria as lmg a lower rnil rntes ex
ist from the Inland to I'uget Sound
cities.
"Apparently, therefore," said the
(C'oatiiiued oa Paga Tars)
ASTORIA IS GIVEN
Kill
J
fz3Mizzr
t rJ fifty &
officer ran toward the gun on the
Appam, we opened fire on her. But
only a few shots were fired.
Fired on Two Ships at Once.
"We had the most excitement on
January 11, when we sighted the Bri
tish stenmers Corbridgo and l'arriii(f
ford almost at. the same time. We
decided to take both ships at once, and
we started first for tnc Cobridge. We
signalled the vessel to stop and fired
at her. Wo kept our forward guns
trained on her and our after guns on
the Corbridge. The Corbridge was near
er and we were sure of taking her. The
Farringford tried to get away, but we
ran her down about 4 o'clock in the
afternoon. 'We were dropping shells
near the Corbridge all during the
chase, and did not stop until she hoisted
a signal of surrender.
"W'e brought both vessels near and
sent a boarding party to each. We
blew up the Farringford with n few
mines. The Corbridge was still afloat
when I Inst saw her. She had a good
supply of coal and we needed it.
"The capture of the other stenm
ers was not. important. We were dis
appointed in most of them and lost one
of the ships we wanted most."
;(
INCENDIARIES ARE BUSY
Memphis, Tenn., Feb. 19.
The 10,000,000 plant of the new
Dupont Federal Dyostuff and
Chemical company at Kingsport
was reported to have caught fire
from incendiary causes early to
day, and to have been damaged
to the extent of i500,()fl0. The
plant was engaged in making
picric acid, a constituent of ex
plosives. Senator Lewis Exposes Hypo
crisy of New York
Senator
Washington, Feb. 19 Addressing the
senate oa the "hypocrisy of statesman
ship," Senator Lewis today answered
the recent criticism of the administra
tion made by ex-Senator Eliliu Hoot.
He declared the New Yorker's assault
on President Wilson as a "weak and
impotent" executive was unnecessary
and Inckiug in sincerity.
"Concerning Germany, Moot said that
we need a president who will appeal to
something else than words," said Lew
is. " What else is possible f Only war.
"If the issue is that President Wil
son has not gone to war, let him say
so. If he plans to elect a president
under the covert purpose of war agninst
Germany, I will expose that hyproc
risy." lie said that Hoot 's record showed
him always ngiiinst intervention.
"Why this change now and this
hyprocrisyf " kueried Lewis.
"What new campaign fund sources
(Continued on I'ago Light.)
PPTPT? TYVYs
nillli 1VVU
PREPARING FOR DRIVE
ON GONSTANTiNOPL
Russians Lacd Troops Near Trebizond On Black Sea
Forces Will March West to Join Army From Erzeran
Grand Duke Nicholas Plans Aggressive Armenian
Campaign-Will Either March On Constantinople Or
Join British In Mesopotamia
London, Feb. 19. Under protection of warships, Rus
sian troops are landing 70 miles east of Trebizond, a
Turkish Black sea port. Only feeble resistance has
greeted them.
Petrograd advices indicate that these forces will move
westward to join the troops released for other service
by the fall of Erzerum, and now heading for Trebizond.
Inasmuch as Trebizond is poorly fortified, the joint ex
pedition probably will encounter no serious resistance.
The landing parties were transported from Batum
where they have been held in readiness for several
months.' The fact that they were not used before leads
to the belief that Grand Duke Nicholas commands more
men than had been supposed and that he now plans an
aggressive Armenian campaign, a . move toward Con
stantinople or a junction with the British in Mesopotamia.
If the latter plan is the one in mind, it is expected the
Russians will go to Diarbekr, 140 miles southwest of
Erzerum. .
It is believed that not more than :0,000 Turks were
captured at Erzerum, though this total will be swelled if
the retreat from that city becomes more confused. The
defenders abandoned heavy artillery after unsuccessfully
attempting to destroy some of it.
Last night's Petrograd official statement said "the
forts in the fortress itself and in the surrounding coun
try are full of Turkish dead,'' and claimed that already
200 guns had been counted, not to mention large quanti
ties of other booty.
English Repulsed.
Berlin, Feb. 19 New Kglish attempts
last night to recaptuore lost ground
southeast of Ypres were repulsed, said
the war office statement today.
Southwest of Altkirch, the Germans
penetrated and destroyed defense works
and took some prisoners.
Austrians Surround Durazzo.
Vienna, Feb. lit. The Austrians
have surrounded Durazzo; Albanian
seaport city and the surrender of the
few thousand Albanian insurgents in
side tho town is expected hourly. No
Italians are believed jo bo among the
defenders.
10 MAKEJIERCE DRIVE
Tremendous Attacks Expected
Soon Along Whole
Western Front
By WlUlam Phillip Simnia,
(Munngcr Paris Ituieau of the
nited Press.)
N'ew York. Feb. 1!), Has the long
anticipated big offensive begun along
the western front? Are the recent
daily smashes in Artois and Champagne
the prelude to an early attempt to
pierce the lines and the start of a drive
toward Paris, Calais or Cologne! If
not, what is the meaning of the fight
ing in France I
"Despite continuous pounding of
artillery all along the line and the
spirited clashes of infantry for tho
possession of certain sections of the
trenches, the indications are that the
big offensive from either side is still
some distance off. Apparently both
flermany and the allies are jockeying
for position, playing for the inside
track.
There is no doubt that Oernmnv is
expecting tho allies to launch a terrific
punch airuinst her in the spring. Ihis
blow, she reasons, after looking at the
map, is likely to fall in Champagne
and Artois, north of Arras, or in that
vicinity.
The battle line is shaped something
like the letter I'. If the German line
can be broken over an extended front
along the bottom of the L (in the
i'liiiiiipiinc) and along the top of the
li (around Arrns) the forces holding
the comer will have to retire, even
though tinattacked, lest they be cut off
by a junction of tho two drives be
ginning in Champagne and Artois,
This is probably the explanation nf
the frenzied attacks hurled by the
Germans against the allies in these two
regions. They wish to prevent the
French from getting u good toe hold
riTVTQ 0N TRAINS AND NEW
liiMNld STANDS FTVE CENTS
from which to make the spring. The
Germans lire undoubtedly trying to
harass the allies in preparatory work
much as trench digging can be hin
dered. On tho other hand, the French ar
undoubtedly prepared for a big Ger
man public, opinion at home will de
mand action in the wester theater of
war, and French plans have, beyond
any doubt, been made for an attack.
Surprise in Paris would not be great
were the Germans to try seeking a new
route to Parris.
Aat any event it seems little likely
that any real serious offensive move
ment will be undertaken by either sido
until the weatherman turns on enough
good weather to make the handling of
artillery easy. Indeed, the slumping of
the past two or three days in the west
ern operations after a brief outburst
of activity, has been duo to stormy
weather.
Itainy weather, with the accompany
ing saturated ground, bogs and loblol
lies, is not especially helpful for an ad
vance, inasmuch as big guns are the
backbone of the war and cun scarcely
be moved to advantage over such posi
tions.
Stock Market Was Firm
ButJJtterly lifeless
(Copyright 19U! by the New York Ev
ening Prat.)
New York, Feb. ID. Partly becaus
a Saturday's business at the end of
such a week was bound to be a vlimat
of apathy, and partly because we are
now on tho eve of what will largely be
observed as a triple holiday, the stock
market today scarcely moved. On thu
whole, it was firm and niwt of the frac
tional changes were upward while a few
scattered industrials wer bid up a
point or more. As a whole there was no
movement of any significaiic.
The market found fiothiuft in new
events to influence prices. Mterliug ex
change advune.ed a fraction, touched the
highest point since a month ago. Thw
was ascribed to tho payment for 22,
000,000 worth of Carnegie five's. An
nouncement of the Methlehem 8tod
company 'e acquisition of the Pennsyl
vania Hteel excited interest as confirm
ing rumors nbout the deal.
ft
THE WEATHER
Oregon: Fair to
night; Sunday in
crejsing cloudi
ness followed by
rain went portion.
IS
