POPULATION09,219
NORWICH, CONN., WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 20, 1916
TEN PAGES 78 COLUMNS
PRICE TWO CENTS
The BiilKetin'sv iCirculation'' invNoraichoublo'That'-of Any Other Paper, and Its Total Circulation is the Largest in Connecticut in Proportion to the City's Population
VOL. LVlll. NO. 227
EUTONIC
Germans and Austro-Hungarians Have Taken
tensive Along the Stokhod River
HAVE CAPTURED 31 OFFICERS AND 2,500 MEN
In the Ludowa Region of the Carpathians the Russians Have
Gained Some New Positions A Reverse for the Ru
manians in Transylvania is Reported From Berlin, Sofia
and Vienna Hard Fighting is in Progress in Macedonia,
With No Apparent Changes In France and Belgium
There Has Been Violent Artillery Activity on the Somme
and Verdun Fronts and Around Dixmude Word Comes
1 From Athens That the Austrians Are Preparing to Evac
uate Triest
Although there is a pause in the
vlojent infantry fighting in the Somme
region of France, due to the inclement
weather, heavy battles are in progress
on the easfern front in Russia, Galicia,
Transylvania and Rumania and on the
southern front in Macedonia.
Along the Stokhod river in Russia
the Germans and Austro-Hungarians
have taken the offensive against the
Russians and, according to Berlin, near
iiarocze have crossed the" river in pur
suit of their retreating foo and cap
tured thirty-one officers and 2,511 men
and 17 machine guns. Here four lines
of Russian trenches were penetrated
by the Teutonic allies, says Vienna.
In Galicia counter-attack by the
forces of the central powers along the
Narayuvka river, southeast of Lem
berg, brought a further success to their
arms and resulted in the capture of
an additional 400 men. In the Luaowa
region of the Carpathians the Russians
have gained some new position in the
fighting among the snow-clad peaks.
The, war chancelleries at Berlin, So
fia and Vienna record victories for the
Teutonic allies over the Rumanians
in Transylvania and Dobmdja. In
Southern Transylvania, near Hatszef,
according to Berlin, the invading Ru
mwnians have beon repulsed and are
being pursued by the :istro-Germans,
wnue in uoDriaja the new line form
ed by the Russians south of the Con-
REFORM IN MEXICAN
BANKING SYSTEM
Outlined to American Members of the
Joint Commission.
New London, Conn., Sept. 19. A plan
for a Mexican national banking sys
tem to take the place of the suspend
ed national bank and the Bank of
London and Mexico, in Mexico, was
outlined to the American members of
the Joint Mexican-American commis
sion here today by Louis Cabrera,
chairman of the Mexican members.
Mr. Cabrera explained that a mone
tary commission has been created
which will have supervision of a chain
of government banks, and it is hoped
to obtain financial backing, chiefly
from Mexican sources, to support the
scheme.
This explanation was given after the
American members had asked to be
enlightened on the order suspending
the two institutions. Mr. Cabrera
said the two banks had Issued bank
notes far in excess of their metallic
reserve and recently had refused to
sell to the government exchange on
foreign banks at rates demanded by
the government. The institutions had
been ordered to show a metallic re
serve equivalent to their issue of paper
money, he said.
Mr. Cabrera added that the step
was largely retaliatory, ae the banks
of Mexico, chiefly the two in ques
tion, were responsible for the depre
ciation of Carranza money.
OFFICERS OF SOVEREIGN
GRAND LODGE, l O.
O. F.
Frank C. Coudy of Denver, Col., Was
Elected Grand Sire.
Chattanooga, Tenn., Sept 19. The
Sovereign Grand Lodge of Odd Fel
lows, in annual session here, elected
today the following officers: Grand
sire, Frank C. Coudy, Denver, Colo.;
deputy grand sire, Henry C. Borst,
Amsterdam, N. T.; grand secretary, J
B. Goodwin, Atlanta, Ga.; grand treas
urer, William H. Cox, Louisville, Ky.
The grand lodge heard reports of
officers showing the membership of the
order to be 2,188,468; total pair out for
relief funds, $5,975,208; total receipts
for the past year $17,822,992. and total
expenses of grand and subordinate
lodges $9,860,671.
UNABLE TO FIND SOURCE
OF INFANTILE PARALYSIS
Efforts of Federal and New York
HeaHh Authorities Fruitless.
New York. Sept 19. Efforts of fed
eral and city health authorities to de
termine the source of infantile paralys
is have been unsuccessful, it was
disclosed tonight in an announcement
by the United States public health ser"
r -ice officials of the abandonment of
the latest theory that the rat flea
transmitted the disease.
Another attempt to trace the disease
to dogs and cats taken from houses
where there had been patients also
proved futile: Tests were made in the
city laboratories on six such animals,
but while they were found to have
paralysis, it was asserted positively
that none had the same disease from
which the children suffered.
Movements of Steamships.
Jothenburg Sep. 9. 'Arrived: The
steamer Stockholm, "New York.
London, Sept. 16. Sailed: Steamer
4iaa, Montreal. ,
!
A
Of-
stanza railway and running from the
Black sea to the Danube has been
penetrated at .points and several vil
lages captured.
In Macedonia hard fighting continues
at various points, but with no impor
tant changes in positions reported.
Two counter-attacks by the Bulgar
ians against, the Serbians on the left
wing were unsuccessful, according to
Paris, while Sofia reports that attacks
by Russian, French and Serbian troops
on Bulgarian positions around Fiorina
were repulsed, as likewise was an of
fensive west of Lake Ostrova. Artil
lery engagements for the most part
are going on along both - the British
and French sectors of the front
In France the Belgium there has
been violent artillery activity on the
Somme and Verdun fronts and around
Dixmude. A local German attack on
British trenches east of Martinpuich,
north of the Somme, was repulsed.
Berlin admits the relinquishment to
the entente forces of trenches east of
Ginchy and near Combles which had
been previously demolished by the en
tente artillery.
The infantry fighting between the
Italians and Austrians on the Carso
highlands has noticeably : diminished,
although the artillery of both sides
continues active.
A . report- aitributed
to reliable diplomatic sources in Ath
ens is to the effect that the Austrians
are preparing to evacuate Triest.
NO CAMPAIGN TOUR TO
BE MADE BY WILSON
But He Will Address Several
Partisan Organizations.
Non-
Long, Branch, N. J:, Sept. 19. Pres
ident Wilson announced tonight that
he had no intention of making any
campaign tour, bdt that he will carry
out .plans already tentatively made for
several speeches on public questions
before non-partisan organizations.
This announcement followed a confer
ence between Vance McCormick, the
chairman of the democratic national
committee, and Mr. Wilson.
Both the president and Mr. McCor
mick expressed indignation over stor
ies printed today to the effect that as
a result of uneasiness over the repub
lican campaign Mr. Wilson had chang
ed his plans and would stump the
country. Chairman McCormick dis
cussed with the president many invi
tations received from different parts
of the country urging Mr. Wilson to
make speeches, but afterwards it was
said officially that the places and dates
had not been decided upon, it was
understood that some of these speeches
will be in Illinois, Indiana, Missouri
and New York.
When asked whether the president
would go as far west as the Pacific
coast, Mr. McCormick replied;
"Hardly that far."
Secretary Tumulty authorized the
following statement:
"The president has no intention of
making any campaign tour. He does
not intend to change the programme
already agreed upon by those in
charge of his campaign to accept invi
tations from non-partisan organiza
tions to discuss political questions."
QUESTIONS AMERICA'S FRIENDLY
FEELING FOR TURKEY
Le Solr Says Press is Partisan and
Imbued With Enmity.
Constantinople, Sept- 19 via Berlin
to London, 4.S0 p. m. In discussing
recently published statements by
Abram I. Elkus, the new American
ambassador to Turkey, in an interview
given in Berlin, Le Soir today says:
"This emphasis upon the friendly
feeling of America for Turkey hardly
fits in with the utteranoea of a large
portion of the American newspapers,
which, in contrast with the respectful
spirit and fairness to the United State
shown by the Turkish press, is parti
san and imbued with unjustified en
mity." L Soir adds that it hopes more
friendly relations will develop between
the United States ana Turkey and ex
presses the opinion that American di
plomacy ought to attempt to influence
the American press to alter its man
ner, of speech.
SUITOR WHO THREATENED
GIRL FATALLY SHOT.
Brother of the Young Lady Proved
Quicker With the Gun.
Bridgeport, Conn., Sept 19. Jtafael
Geraga, 23 years old, was quicker with
his gun tonight than was Angelo Pel
liceo, 32, and ae a result Pelliceo is in
a dying condition in a hospital with
a bullet above the heart.
Geraga. and his sister Mary, 20- years
old. were -walking along the street
when Pelliceo. a rejected suitor for the
girl, came along. Pelliceo, it is said
by the police, drew a revolver with th
avowea intention or shootlner the eirl. I
bUj Gyr&gS' 'wnlPPd out his own gun
iu euvi jira.. - -
LUES IN
IT Of RUSSIANS
Cabled Paragraphs
Austrians Prepare to Evacuate Triest.
Athens, Sept. ' 19, 11.30 p. m., via
London, 11 p. m. It is stated in most
reliable diplomatic sources here - that
tho Austrians are preparing for the
evacuation of Triest.
Water of Nile Very High.
Cairo, via London, Sept. 20, 2.02 a.
m. The waters .of . the Nile have
reached a very high level, necessitat
ing the enforcement of the decree of
1S87, which empowers the government
to call on any able-bodied man to as
sist in the work for the protection of
threatened regions under penalty of
imprisonment or fine.
B.
& M. STOCKHOLDERS
SANCTION DIRECTORS' ACTION
In Assenting to Receivership of the
Road Meeting Held in Boston.
Boston, Sept. 19. Ratification of the
action of the directors of the Boston
and Maine railroad in assenting to
receivership for the road was voted
at a special meeting of stockholders
today. The meeting had been called
at the request of minority interests,
counsel for whom objected to what
they termed "the unseemly haste with
which the directors hurtled the cor
poration into receivership at the point
of its greatest prosperity," and who
stated that they "found the doors of
the courts closed against it, at least
temporarily," in efforts to intervene in
opposition to the appointment of a
receiver.
The vote of approval was over
whelmingly in favor of the resolution
of endorsement introduced by R. H.
Lcng of Framingham. Conrad W.
Crocker, counsel for the Boston and
Maine Minority Stockholders' Protec
tive association, protested in vain that
proxies had been fraudulently tricked
by post-dating to effect an unbeatable
majority combination, while Asa P.
French, representing the Lawrence es
tate of Med ford, asserted that the 51
per cent, stockholdings owned by the
New York, New Haven and Hartford
railroad were voted illegally by the
trustees who are acting under the ap
pointment of the federal court.
Attorney French proposed a resolu
tion calling for the appointment of a
committee to report two weeks hence
on various features of the receivership
proceedfrvss and to delve into the rea
sons "why the directors have made no
move toward settlement of the suit
involving claims of the Hampden rail
road. Which has tied up $4,000,000 of
Boston and Maine property through at
tachments." The resolution was voted down de
cisively. HUGHES RENEWS ATTACK
ON THE ADAMSON LAW
Called "Futile" the Reafons Advocated
for Its Passage.
Springfield, Ills., Sept. 19. Charles
E. Hughes, addressing an audience in
the arsenal here tonight, renewed his
attack on the administration for the
passage of the Adamson-law-in -the
Lface of the threatened railroad" strBcat-
Mr. Hughes discussed and called "fu
tile" reasons advocated for its pass
age, quoted from President Wilson's
address to congress on the subject,
challenged the statement of Represen
tative -Adamson that it was passed to
meet an emergency and cited a dec
laration attributed to Grover Cleve
land in support of the contention that
the law was "a surrender to force."
"We have seen," Mr. Hughes said,
"what appears to be the consideration
of immediate political expediency at
the expense of public welfare. Mr.
Adamson said 'it is hasty legislation, 1
admit, to meet an emergency.' What
emergency? The emergency of force
to which the administration had capi
tulated.. "Senator Underwood said, 'We have
no information on which to legislate
and to fix rates of wages which we
are going to do and are attempting to
do'
"Contrast the action of the admin
istration with what was said by Gro
ver Cleveland in 1886 with respect to
labor legislation.
"All legislation on the subject should
be calmly and deliberately undertaken
with no purpose of satisfying unrea
sonable demands or gaining partisan
advantage.'
"It is idle to excuse the action by
the request for additional legislation
with respect to the future. That leg
islation was not obtained. We are
dealing with what was demanded and
actually enacted."
NAVAL CONSULTING BOARD
NOW A LEGALIZED BUREAU
Impressive Ceremonies in the Office of
Secretary Daniels.
Washington, Sept. 19. The navy ci
vilian consulting board, composed of
twenty-four of the nation's most emi
nent scientists and engineers, took its
place today as a legalized bureau of
the navy department and the names
of its members, headed by Thomas A.
Edison as chairman, were placed on
the rolls under a recent act of con
gress as "officers of the United States
government."
The board's inauguration was at
tended by impressive c remonies in
the office of Secretary '.Daniels. The
highest ranking officers of the depart
ment welcomed their new comrades to
the naval service. Secretary Daniels
declared that the occasion signified a
great strengthening for the nation's
first line of defense and gave renewed
promise for the restoration of Ameri
can prestige on the seas.
Immediately on taking the oath of
office, the board members effected a
permanent official organization. Mr.
Edison was elected chairman; William
I Saunders of the American Institute
of Mining Engineers and Dr. Peter C.
Hewitt of the Inventors Guild, both of
New York city, were selected as vice
chairmen and Thomas Robbins of the
Inventors Guild, were selected as vice
chairman and Thomas Robbins of the
Inventors Guild, was appointed secre
tary. . Preliminary plans for the $1,590,000
naval laboratory to be built under the
board's direction were discussed and a
committee of six were appointed to
and investigate and report on a suit
able site.
AN ATTACK ON CARRANZA
TROOPS NEAR TAMPICO
B.-dit Inflicted a Severe Loss Before
t Being Repulsed.
' Washington, Sept, 19. An attack on
Carranza troops in or near Tampico
by a force under a bandit named Pa
laea on Sept. 16, . Mexican Independ
ence Day, was reported today : in offi
cial despatches received here. The
bnnrilt. a . ,t.i
bandits are ' said to
heavy , losses upon the soldiers before
peing repulsed.
Citizens to Appeal
to Striking Carmen
ONLY HOPE OF AVERTING SYMP
ATHETIC STRIKE IN NEW YORK
PRESIDENT SHONTS FIRM
Declares That the' 11,000 Employes
Who Remain at Work Threatened to
Strike if Strikers' Union is Recog
nized Walkout Set for Friday.
New York, Sept. 19. After a citi
zens' committee had failed to effect a
basis of settlement between the strik
ing union carmen and their employers
here, it was announced tonight that
apparently the only hope of averting a
threatened sympathetic walkout of
700,000 workers, set for Friday, now
lies in a final appeal to be ma.de to
the labor leaders Thursday. The citi
zens committee probably will confer
tomorrow with Mayor Mitchel and
Oscar S. Straus, chairman of the pub
lic service commission, in an effort to
find some solution of the problem.
Citizens' Committee Visits Shonts.
Following, a conference today with
the mayor and Mr. Straus, the com
mittee visited Theodore P. Shonts,
president of the Interborough Rapid
Transit company and the New York
Railways company, and, it was said,
proposed to him a plan evolved for the
peaceable adjustment of the present
differences.
Refused to Meet Strikers.
Mr. Shonts, it was learned tonight,
informed the committee that he would
refuse positively to meet representa
tives of the strikers. Mr. Shonts te'd
the committee that even if he wert
disposed to treat with the strikers,
he could not do so because the 11,000
loyal employes of his companies, who
make possible the continuation of
traffic on the subways and elevated
roads, had threatened to strike if the
'Interborough recognized the strikers'
union.
In the meantime a meeting of the
central conference committee of the
strikers was held to count the strike
votes of those organizations which al
ready have voted. Ernest Bohm, sec
retary of the Central Federated union,
announced at the close of the meeting
that communications had been re
ceived from "three bir unorganized
groups of employes in three great in
dustries asking permission to join the
strike."
RIOTING IN VARIOUS
PARTS OF MANHATTAN.
Mobs of Strikers Stormed Two Car
--Barns and Overpowered the- Polica.
' New York, Sept. 19. The most serf .
mis rioting since the transit strike in
this city began two weeks ago occur
red tonight in various parts of Man
hattan, when attempts were made to
run cars on the Forty-second and
Fifthy-ninth street crossto 7n surface
lines. Mobs of strikers and sympa
thizers stormed two car barns, over
powering the police and putting to
flight all railway employes in the vi
cinities. Several motormen and con
ductors who had not Joined the strike
were beaten. Calls were sent to police
headquarters for reserves, but before
they arrived much damage had been
done. - - ---.
The police assert that the strikers
took advantage of the fact that manv
policemen who had been detailed to
strike auty were relieved to go to the
polling booths in today's primary elec
tion here. The strikers apparently
planned their attacks, it was said, as
disorders occurred in many places at
t hesame time.
At Forty-second street and Broad
way, one of the busiest spols in the
city, a great crowd bombarded a car
with stones they had gathered from a
subwa yexcavation. Passengers fled in
terror.
The police reported late tonight that
all surface cprs had been ordered to
the barns for the rest of the night.
Numerous arrests were made and
many of the rioters were clubbed by
the police. Several passengers were
hurt by flying missiles. Many women
fainted .when mobs of strikers boarded
cars and fought with the motormen
and conductors.
After the cars had been driven from
the streets the strikers attacked ele
vated trains, showering bottles and
bricks from housetops. Policemen
then were stationed on roofs of houses
along elevated structures.
174 GUARDSMEN QUIT
ON A LONG HIKE
General Funston Disappointed That So
Many Dropped Out.
San Antonio, Texas, Sept. 19. One
hundred and seventy-four of the
guardsmen who left here last Saturday
on the march to Austin dropped out
and have returned to Camp " Wilson
here, General Funston said tonight.
They have been put into the guard
house and tomorrow will be conveyed
by motor truck to Hunter, where they
will rejoin their organizations.
General Funston expressed disap
pointment that so mauy men lacked
spirit enough to make the hike. All of
the 174 will be compelled to do the
83 miles to Austin, however, and fur
ther punishment probably will be de
vised for them later. General Funston
indicated.
NEW HAVEN HIGH
SCHOOL BOY SUICIDES
Despondent Owing to Fear of Not Suc
ceeding in His Studies.
New Haven, Conn., Sept. 19. Elihu
Thomas, 16 years old. a senior in the
New Haven High school, committed
suicide today by taking poison, at his
father's farm in the Highwood section
of the neighboring town of Hamden.
In notes left for his parents and class
mates he ascribed his act to despon
dency due to fear-of not succeeding
in his studies. - - -
... Aviator Killed.
Shawnee, Okla., Sept. 19. M. Q. Rob
erts of Rupert, VL, was killed here to
day In a fall of 1,200 feet in an aero
plane. The machine he was flying was
said to have been on Its first flight.
Every woman knows that she talks
too much, but what she doesn't know
is a sure remedy for ? it.-
Close Contest in
N. Y. Primary
INDICATIONS OF A VICTORY FOR
', GOVERNOR WHITMAN
PROGRESSIVES DIVIDED
Calder, Republican, and McCoombs,
Democrat, Apparently Assured of the
Nominations for United States Sen
ator. New York, Sept. 20. With reports
from less than one-half of the districts
in the state received at one o'clock
this morning, Jovernor Charles S.
Whitman was leading Judge Samuel
Seabury, his democratic opponent, for
the progressive endorsement for gov
ernor. Only a fraction of the 46,000
enrolled progressives in the state went
to the polls and the average of their
votes was only about four to a dis
trict. Interest in Progressive Vote.
The progressive vote aroused more
interest among state and national
leaders than any other feature of the
primary, for it was regarded as giv
ing some light on how the strength of
the party would be divided in the na
tional election. A majority of the pro
gressive leaders of the state supported
Mr. Whitman's candidacy. The lead
ers of the so-called insurgent wing of
the party who gave their aid to Judge
Seabury professed to be more than
satisfied with the result.
McCombs leads Conway 2 to 1.
William F. McCombs, former chair
man of the democratic national com
mittee, who was designed for the sen
atorial nomination by the unofficial
democratic state convention, was lead
ing his opponent, Thomas F. Conway,
a former lieutenant-governor, by more
than 2 to 1 at midnight.
State Senator William Bennett, who
opposed Covernor Whitman for the
republican nomination, had received
only 15,671 votes compared with 87,696
for Whitman.
Calder Leading Bacon.
The victor In the contest for the
republican nomination for United
States senator in the statewide pri
mary remained in doubt at 2.15 o'clock
tish morning. At that hour, with 4,
124 districts heard from out of a to
tal of 5,719 in the state, William A.
Calder was leading Robert Bacon by
about 1,200. The figures were-.
Calder 109,551; Bacon 108,364.
ARRANGING PROSECUTION
OF BLACKMAIL SYNDICATE
William C. Woodward, Leader of the
Gang, Surrendered Last Night.
htcagoT Sept. 'itf.--A conference at
Washington on the prosecution of al
leged members of the "international
blackmail syndicate" was arranged to
day, it was learned from local officials
of the department of justice who left
tonight for Washington.
WilJiam C. Woodward, accused by
government officials as a leader of
the gang, surrendered to the United
States district attorney tonight. He
surrendered, he said, when he learned
that government officials had gone to
Washington.
Woodward was released on $2,500
bond. ,
Mrs. Helen Evers, alleged "Idre" in
the gang's operations and the only
woman still under charges in connec
tion with the "syndicate's" alleged op
erations, was released on $25,000 bond
tonight.
Only two members of the gang Ed
ward Donahue and Henry Russell are
still In jail.
REPORTS OF PROSPERITY IN
ALL LINES OF INSURANCE
Made at Meeting of National Associa
tion of Insurance Companies.
Reading, Pa., Sept. 19. Reports of
prosperity in all lines of insurance
were made today at the opening of the
21st annual meeting here of the Na
tional Association of Mutual Insurance
companies, held jointly with the ninth
annual gathering of the Pennsvlvania
association. Constructive legislation
fire prevention, classification of farm
risks, livestock and automobile insur
ance, tornado indemnities nd other
questions of interest to mutual com
panies are being considered by the
convention. Nearly every state in the
east and middle west are represented
in the meeting, over which L. R. Welch,
of FUchburg, Mass., is presiding.
CARRIER PIGEON WITH BAND
BEARING GERMAN LETTERS.
Taken Captive by Soldiers at
Michie, Gull Island.
Fort
Fort Michie, Gull Island, N. Y., Sept.
19 A carrier pigeon bearing an alum
inum band with the No. 1098 and sev
eral German letters on it has been
taken captive by soldiers at this fort
and the belief exists that the bird
came from one of the German subma
rines now on a voyage to this coun
try. The bird was completely ex
haused when captured and gave evi
dence of having been in the air a long
time.
OBITUARY.
Dennis J. Gaynor.
Stratford, Conn., Sept. 19. Dennis J.
Gaynor, president of the Gaynor Man
ufacturing company, died at his home
here this afternoon at the age of 70
years. He was a former city treas
urer of Waterbury where be resided
for many years.
William J. Calhoun.
Chicago, Sept. 19. William J. Cal
houn, former minister to China, died
late today at his residence here. Mr.
Calhoun was 68 years old. He had
been ill some months, having been
stricken with paralysis and thereafter
a complication of ailments followed.
Mr. Calhoun gained fame as a di
plomat through his , mission to Cuba
Just preceding the war with Spain
and as special commissioner to Vene
zuela for President Roosevelt.
Mr. Calhoun was born in Pittsburgh,
Pa, He practiced law at Danville, Ills,
and in Chicago and in 1897 was sent
by President McKinley as special com
missioner to Cnuba. He was a mem
ber of the Interstate Commerce Com
mission -from 189 6 to 1900, was special
commissioner for President Roosevelt
to Venezuela in 1907 and from 1909 to
1913 was minister to China.
Condensed Telegrams
Food disorders have broken
Vienna.
out in
Walter Scott, premier of Saskatch
ewan,, is reported dying.
Exports of specie from Sept. 11 to
Sept. 16, amounted to $2,827,827.
The German Minister to Bucharest
has reached Haparanda, en route to
Berlin. , ,.
The steamer Lafayette of the French
Dine arrived at New York from Bor
deaux. Canadian Pacific gross earnings for
the second week of Sept.. increased
$541,000.
Sir Cavendish Boyle, who was gov
ernor of Newfoundland from- 1901 to
1904, is dead.
Shipments of fresh and cured meats
from Chicago last week totalled 40,
489,000 pounds. ,
Exports of general merchandise at
the port of New York Saturday to
talled $4,045,452.
For the year ended with last June,
the United States imported sugar
worth $208,769,000.
Nikolas Kalogeropoulos, the .new
Premier of Greece, has accepted the
Entente Powers latest note.
The Second New York Infantry, on
the border, has been ordered to return
to the state, mobilization camp.
James M-cNerney, a fireman of En
gine Co. No. 256 at Rockaway Beach,
was killed by a train at Seaside.
Two hundred and fifty corset work
ers of the Bay State Corset Co., of
Springfield, Mass., went on strike.
A five-story factory building in
Roebling Street, Brooklyn, was de
stroyed by fire at a loss of $100,000.
Col. Theodore Roosevelt Joined in
support of Robert Bacon for Repub
lican United States Senate nomination.
Six new cases of infantile paralysis
were reported to the state board of
health yesterday, bringing the total to
6S3.
The annuat convention of the Amer
ican Association of Public Accountants
opened at the Waldorf-Astoria, New
York.
Gross earnings of the Minneapolis,
St. Paul and Sault Ste Marie Railroad
Co., for the year tnding June 30, total
led $35,010,064.
Gold to the amount of $250,000 was1?
received from Canada and deposited at
the Assay Office for the account of J.
P. Morgan & Co.
The Navy ' Department on Friday
will resume, hearings to decide where
td-Seat" "the "$11,0X10,000 ' government
armor-rplaite iplant. '- . .
Great Britain's reply to the strong
American protest against the seizure
and censoring of neutral mails is now
on its way to Washington.
The New York Central Railroad has
placed an order with the American
Locomotive Co. and the Lima Loco
motive Corporation for 230 engines.
More than $1,000,003 in British gold
arrived at Boston from Cape Town,
South Africa, on the British steamer
York Castle, consigned to Montreal
bankers.
Michael Ferguson of Galesburg and
Bert Sapp of Monmouth, 111., were ar
rested, charged with the murder of
Emma Larkin, at the Fair Grounds at
Aledo, 111.
Henry W. Staples, for many years
proprietor of the Old Orchard House,
Old Orchard's largest ohtel, died of
heart disease today at his home in that
seacoast town.
Four persons were killed at North
Springfield, 18 miles west of Erie, Pa.,
when the automobile in which they
were riding was struck by a New
York Central train.
Arthur Curtiss James has been des
ignated a Chevalier of the Crown of
Italy in recognition of his generosity
in building the $300,000 school for
Italian cshildren in Ne wYork.
Dr. Nicholas Murray Butler, presi
dent of Columbia University, arrived
in Chicago after a speaking tour
throughout the west in the interests of
the Republican national ticket.
The Italian Government in order to
reduce the cost of living which has in
creased about 25 per cent in the last
six months, has seized 10,000,000 eggs
and is selling them at 2 cents a piece.
The War Department sent orders to
General Funston to return regiments
of the National Guard now on the
border in exact ratio of, one regiment
to return for each new regiment sent
down.
Daniel Boddis died in the Rhode
Island Hospital from injuries suffer
ed when an automobile in which he
was riding ran into a ditch and cap
sized on the Apponoug road, near
Norwood.
"Indiana will give her electoral vote
to Wilson," declared National Demo
cratic Chairman McCormick on his re
turn to New York from the West. "We
shall elect two Democratic senators
from that state."
Francis B. Sayre, President Wilson's
son-in-law, who made a trip among
the American troops along the Mexi
can border in the interest of the
Young Men's Christian Association in
Massachusetts, arrived at New York.
Naval Constructor William G. Du
Bose, who was sent to the Santo Do
mingo city to decide whether the
wrecked' cruiser Memphis could be
salvaged, reported to the Navy De
partment that little could be saved
from the vessel.
Delmar P. Crowley, six years years
old, was struck and killed at Middle
town by an automobile driven by Dr.
John H. Mountain, of Middletown. The
John H. .Mountain. The boy it was
said became confused and ran in front
of the machine.
$500,000 Memorial for Dr. J. D. Murphy
Chicago, Sept. IS. A $500,000 me
morial to the late Dr. John D, Murphy,
the noted Burgeon, is to be erected in
Chicago, it was announced today. It
is probable that the memorial will e
in tho form of an institution for sur
gical research.
CHANGES IN DEM.
John C. Geary Displaces Bryan Mahan in the Twentieth
District
THOS. J. KELLY REPRESENTS THE 19TH DISTRICT
Enthusiastic Gathering at Opening of Democratic State Con
vention in New Haven Mention of Name of President
Wilson Greeted With Applause Every Delegate's Seat
Was Occupied M. C. Higgins a Member of the Reso
lutions Committee State Central Committee Approved
the Revised Rules Prepared by Chairman Fitzgerald, J.
T. Fanning of This City, W. E. Thorns of Waterbury, J.
J. Cullman of Bridgeport and T. J. Spellacy of Hartford.
Ne-pl Haven, Conn., Sept. 19. It was
a ver enthusiastic gathering which
opened the state democratic conven
tion in Music hall tonight. Every del
egate's seat was occupied, the galleries
were filled and spectators fringed the
floor beyond the rows of chairs both at
the rear and along the sides of the
hall. At every opportunity there was
cheering and handclapping and men
tion of the name of President Wilson
was greeted with cheers. The hall,
gaily dressed in flags and bunting
with the stage well set with scenery,
seldom looked as well at a political
convention. Former Congressman
Thomas L. Reilly, the temporary
chairman, was repeatedly interrupted
by applause and he also had an ova
tion at the close of his address.
Ovation For Homer Cummings.
The convention started late, as del
egates were outside viewing the pa
rade of the equal suffragists. Then
they rushed into the hall and State
Chairman Fitzgerald had to vigorously
wield his gavel to get order, so that
the call might be read by Secretary
P. B. O'Sullivan. Mr. Reilly's intro
duction, followed and about that time
Homer S. Cummings walked up the
center aisle and the delegates rose in
a body to cheer him. Several bodily
led him to a seat on the platform.
The keynite speech of the tempor
ary chairman was given in excellent
voice and occasionally a de)Sate
shouted out his approval or some
point. At the conclusion a thirty
minute recess was taken to permit dis
tricts to select members of a commit
tee and to settle . contests over the
state committeemen of which thewe a
number..
Resolutions Committee. -The
resolutions committee follows bv
districts:
1, M. L. Hewes; 2, Augustine Loner
gan; 3, Henry McManus; 4, John
Cairns; 5, C. 11. Gallup; 6, G. M.
Landers; 7.- W. A. Seymour; 8, Robert
Jordan; 9, Frank Kenna; 10, J. E. Jic
Gann: 11. Andrew Meola; 12. W. J.
Brldgett; 12 Owen Horan; 14, Herbert
Peterson; 15, W. E. Thorns; 16, Jo
seph Lawler; 17, TV. R. Palmer; 18,
James Sweeney; 19, M. C. Higgins; 20,
John C Geary; 21. Robert G. Deforest!
22, D. E. Brennan; 23, G. F. Mara; 24,
4. 7. McAllister; 25, F. W. Wheeler; 26,
J. T. Hayes; 27, Thomas Ryle; 28, F.
E. Bitgood; 29, D. J. Danaher; 30, Rob
ert A. Nisbet: 31. ; 32, C
W. Hode-e: 33, Daniel McCarthy; 34,
Dennis O'Brien; 35. J. M. Clarke.
Of the contests for central commit
teeman the most interesting was that
in the 30th dstrict, where Frank Coe
of Torrington, a newly seated memben
was tied in the vote by Mr. Quinn and
the decision went over until tomor
row'. New State Central Committee.
The new committee chosen follows:
bv districs:
1. James Dugan; 2. C. J. Dillon; 3,
Herman Koppleman; 4, Edmond A.
Clune; 5, Thomas Hewes; 6. G. M.
Landers; 7, M. J. Connor: 8, T. E. Ca
hill; 9. E. P. O'Mara: 10, J. E. Mc
Gann: 11, M. Frank Hope; 12, Hugh
P Prior; 13, Owen Hare; 14. A. B.
O'Keeffe: 15, J. A. Hynes; 16, J. F.
Tohin; 17. W. R. Palmer; 18, W. H.
Farrell; 19, Thomas J. Kelly; 20,
John C. Geary: 21, H. J. Clabby; 22,
P. H Ras-v; 23, W. F. Russell; 24,
Lester O. Peck: 25, Hezekiah El wood:
26, H. S. Weed: 27, John Walsh; 28,
Asa M. Ross: 29. J. M. Bassett; 30,
tie; 31, E. S. Roberts; 32, J. S. Addis;
33, D. I. McCarthy: 34. R. U. Tyler;
35. M. D. O'Connell.
As soon as caucuses had ended the
convention accepted the list of com
mittees and adjourned until 10 o'clock
tomorrow morning. The several com
mitteemen met. that on resolutions re
ceiving a delegation of the Connect-I
cut Women's Equal Suffrage League
which asked for a pl.ink on "Votes for
Women'' in the platform.
Meeting of State Central Committee.
In the afternoon the state central
committee met and this gathering was
enlivened by incidents which followed
tho discovery that newspaper men
were -in the room although the meet
ing supposedly was to have been an
executive one. As there was some
disagreement in the committee as to
courtesy to be extended the report
ers to stav a sergeant-at-arms in the
person of Mr. Cahill of the Eighth dis
trict was appointed by Chairman Fitz
gerald to see that the room was
cleared of unauthorized persons.
Committeemen Absent.
The committeemen absent were M.
A. Coleman of the first, A. B. O'Keffe
of the fourteenth and M. J. Clabby of
the twnetv-first. Proxies were held
bv John Dough an for the eleventh, T.
J. Brennnn for the sixteenth, Thomas
J. Kl!v for the nineteenth, Albert
Phillips for the twiity-wventh and A.
M Knss for th twonty-cjrhth, Tho
new mt-mber from Tru-ririgton, Frank
Coe. who wos appointed vice - E. T.
O'Pnllivnn. who resigned, E. P.
O'Meara of the ninth and Herman
Koppleman of the third and Max Burr-
schmidt of the twenty-fifth sat for
their first time each on the commit- i ve demonstration. Tonight, a thou
tee sand advocates of equal suffrage took
The temporary roll of the conven-1 Par in a Picturesque torchlignt pro
tion was accepted. It showed that ' cession through crowded streets, as the
seventeen towns had not reported
their delegates.
Revised Rules Approved.
The revised rules prepared by Chair"
man Fitzgerald, J. T. Fanning of Nor
wich.. W. E. Thorns of Waterbury, J.
J. Culliman of Bridgeport and T. J.
Spellacy of Hartford, were offered,
discussed and approved, and ordered
reported to the convention for ts ac
tion. In brief, the new rules include
STATE COMMITTEE
these changes: Lengthens the time
from seven to fourteen days before a
state corrvention in which caucuses
for choice of delegates may be held;
provides for election of state commit
teeman at the spring convention in
presidential election years; creates an
assistant secretary (or organizer) at
a salary of $2,000 a year; changes the
basis of represettatioo from towns to
probate and senatorial district con
vention to the same ratio as for the
state convention; allows the state
committeeman calling' a senatorial
convention to have a vote in case of
a tie such as occurred in the Hart
ford contest recently. ,
Discovered Reporters in the Room.
It was after adoption of the rules
that Mr. Dillon of Hartford discover
ed reporters in the room. The com
mittee after discussion voted to let
them stay in but Chairman Fitzgerald
declared that the meeting was an
executive one an dthose not commit
teemen had to ff out. This decision'
was enforced by the sergeant-at-arms.
W. R. Palmer of Oxford then made an
address in which he outlined plans
the national committee has on foot
concerning the campaign in this state.
This information was to be kept secret
by the committee, it was said after
ward. Mr. Cummings and Mr. Sperlacy ap
peared at this point and both were in
vited into the meeting. Mr. Cum
mings spoke on organization condi
tions especially in other states. This
disposed of all business on hand, al- .
though the matter of adoption of a
rule to have the platform put Into fi
nal shape by the nominees on tbe stats
ticket, was sent to the convention for
its action.
' Reilly For Permanent Chairman.
The committee on permanent Organ
ization tomorrow will recommend that
Mr. Reilly be made permanent chair
man. It is expected that Mr. Cum
mings upon his nomination for the of
fice of United States senator will ad
dress the convention. There semeJ
no reason to believe tonight that any
change would be made in the selection
of a candidate for governor, alohtngh
some opposition to Judge Morris . B.
Beardsley of Bridgeport, who will be
named, is reported to be held by a
few delegates.
No decision had been reached by tho
leaders as to the naming of a progres
sive for a place on the state ticket, al
though report had it that F. E. Duffy
of West Hartford might be offered the
place of secretary of state. Francis
P. Gui'foile of Waterbury will be un-.
opposed for the lieutenant governor
nomination. County and congressional
delegations were being canvassed to
night for names of possible presiden
tial electors.
CONGRESSMAN REILLY
PRAISES PRESIDENT WILSON
Address as Temporary Chairman
Democratic State Convention.
New Haven, Conn., Sept. 19. The
paramount reason for the re-electlpn
of President Wilson, all other ijisues
aside, is that "he has kept us out of
war at home and abroad," asserted
Former Congressman Thomas L. Rem
of Meriden, in his address here to
night as temporary chairman of the
democratic state convention.
"The United States is at peace with
the world today," he continued, "be
cause providentially there had been
raised up to guide its destitines a man
big and just, and wise and strong
enough to do what he believed to be
right and what he knew to be truly
American. And when the
names of great leaders of men are
written and the names of the most
Illustrious presidents spoken, none will
stand higher or be spoken with more
fervid patriotism, than that of Wood
row Wilson."
Mr. Reilly reviewed the legislation
enacted under the present administra
tion, asserting that the record refut
ed the charge that it had not been
constructive. He defended the Ad
amson law, passed to avert a nation
wide railroad strike as a "necessary
emergency measure;" urged the pro
gressives to unite with the democrats
because they had put into law the
measures sought by the progressives,
and referring to international ques
tions, declared that peace had been
maintaineft "with untarnished honor."
SUFFRAGISTS IN TORCHLIGHT
PARADE IN NEW HAVEN
Carried Banners and Placards Bearing
Suffrage War Cries.
New Haven, Conn., Sept. 19. -So far
j s parades are concerned, Connecticut
workers tor woman suimiee maintain
a benevolent neutrality for both the
republican and democratic parties., On.
the eve of the republican state con
vention h:re on Sept. 5 suffragists
from all parts of tiie state mart; lied
through the city streets in an impreo-
democratic convention was assembling
to hear the keynote speech of Ex-Con
gressman Reilly.
As was the case two weeks ago, most
of the marchers tonight were women,
and tey hcarried banners and placard
bearing suffrgae war cries. A decided
feature was the presence in the lin
of march of . the democratic "Mule,
led by two women. After the parade.
there were speeches favoring the
cause on the Green.
