'VJ 'WI
S afF
W WWWgWK-L e d ifWN
NIGHT
EXTRA
vol. m.-No. c
ittmtmj
. sss
flfeitarr
NIGHT
EXTRA
PHILADELPHIA, "WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 20, 101G
Constant, IBIS, it inr rcauo Lrcott Conns
PRICE ONE OE2STT
RUMANIANS WIN
IN FIGHTING ON
DOBRUDJA LINE
Bucharest Announces
yictory Over Enemy s
Main Force
SERBIANS 7 MILES
FROM MONASTIR
teutons Advance in Tran
sylvaniaSofia Re
ports Gains
ALLIES FIRM ON SOMME
JVar Moves on Four Fronts
Outlined for Quick Reading
1,
Balkan front Bucharest an-
nounces victory over main Gcr-
man-Bulgar-Turklsh forces in Do-
. II- mL.ll.iim ia tll1 fiAnfimi.
Druajn. iiiu u-iuc o"' ."
lag. Rumanians admit a slight re
treat in Transylvania in face of
heavy Teuton reinforcements. Allies
continue drive in Macedonia nnd
Serbia. Serbs only seven miles from
Monastir. Bulgar War Office still
Iknt on retreat from Fiorina and
i reports capture of four villages in
Fiorina, region.
2 East front Germans report
advances on tho Stokhod and
near Halicz. Pctrograd announces
situation in Galicia and Volhynia
unchanged.
3 West front Repulse of Gcr-
man counter-attacks on the
Sommo except at one point an
nounced by Paris. The Germans at
tacked heavily from Clcry to the
Sommc.
4 Italian front Vienna reports
rcpulso of Italian attacks in
Plezzo region and slowing down of
Italian offensive. Athens nsscrts
that reports received there indicate
the early evacuation of Trieste by
the Austrians for the purpose of re
inforcing the Teuton lines in Transylvania.
BUCHAREST, Sept. 20.
Rumanian troops have won a victory
brtr the main Bulgarian, German and
IWklsh force In a battle near Engea,
brudja, It was officially announced to-
fd-jr. The fighting Is continuing.
$ Teuton forces In Transylvania have been
. jjieavlly reinforced and have opened a
strong etrensive against tns invading ltu
feanlans to the west of Hermannstadt. A
statement Issued by the War Office today
It-admltted that the Rumanian forces had re-
urcu sugniiy in ine aireu vaney ueiore
a (the Teuton attacks.
K LONDON, Sept 20.
r ocroian troops nave advanced 10 wmun
pJMven miles of Monastir and are engaged
In sharp fighting with the Bulgars, said an
pAinens mspatcn today.
A Central News dispatch said It was
learned from reliable sources that the Ger
man and Bulgarian staffs have left
Vonastlr.
, , The Bulgarians are pillaging Monastir.
; preparatory to evacuating the town, said
:'! Exchange Telegraph dispatch from
Ealonlca today. Bulgarian comltadjls are
ravaging the neighboring Serbian towns.
; The Bulgarians have been driven from
Bt Me trench position after another and much
-et the nghtlng Is going on in the open.
I;.; For the first time since the Balkanflght-
"'a ucsan large cavairy lorces are in
elahes at several "points along the Berbo-
, Creek frontier.
Serbian cavalry is reported to have played
i large part in the capture of several
. villages around Fiorina. The troopers
pushed the pursuit of the retreating Bulgars
o rapidly that they were unable to make
stand until after they had crossed the
f frontier.
I; Northeast of Lake Ostrovo, the Bul
garians, who were driven from the heights
or Kamakchalan, have halted their retreat
1 anil Br ..... .. l.l m.-- . .
-j ..,. ., vuuiiicr'uiiucjting-. -ne struggle
." Becoming violent at that point and also
5 around PoroJ, northeast of Lake Dolran,
inhere Bulgarians and Italians are en
i aged. ,
I BULGARS REPORT CAPTURE
W HDVAim mrr mnn .n.m.n
ALONG MACEDONIAN FRONT
SOFIA, Sept. 20.
The War Office announced today that
Bulgarian troops had captured four vll
es after fierce fighting on the Entente
' Allies' front In Macedonia. It also stated
mat a great battle was developing to the
advantage of the Bulgarians on the Ilu-
anlan front
The battle line on which the Bulgars have
engaged 'the Rumanians Is about twenty
two miles long, extending eastward to
Tua, a Rumanian port on the Black Sea,
nileen miles south of Constanta.
. Macedonian front Fieroa flrhtlnr
oontinuea around Fiorina and the Beles
y
CsatlniMd on fate Flrt, Column On
THE WEATHER
OFFICIAL FORECAST
For Philadelphia and 'vieinitu Fair
yonight and Thurtday; warmer tonight,
Mth loweit temperature about 60 f
ttreei; gentle winds, mottly eouthweet.
IKKflTlI OP DAV
wrl. , ,. B:4.in.
W uii,., , catt p.m.llfoon souths :6Ja.m.
PKLAWAHK KIVJtK TIDE CHANGBg
r-UKHTMUT HTRKKT
E Itfli. Ur.. 3:B .o.Iw wUr.. 8.-0p.m.
f Wli wiur,, 8.-0 a.w.lKUh water . 60 p.m.
TKWPWUTPKK AT KACH HOUR
V
SlananananananananV
WIFE OF ALLEGED
BLACKMAIL CHIEF
BLAMES ENEMIES
Has to Laugh, She Says, to
Read Her Husband Helped
Graft $1,000,000 Yearly
"LOOK AT MY DRESS"
rhoto by Central News.
GORKY'S SON IN WAK
Lieutenant Zinovi Pcchkoff, of the
French Foreign Legion, who is an
ndoptcd son of Maxim Gorky, the
Russian writer, has arrived in the
United States to lecture. He lost
an arm at the front and wears
several medals.
ARCHER DOPE BILL
WINS SUPPORT OF
SENATE LEADERS
Vare and McNichol Back
Measure to Curb Drug
Traffic
Points to Cheap Clothes nnd
Modest Home as Proof of
His Innocence
PENROSE ALSO IN LINE
State Senators James P. McNichol and
"Ed" Varo stated today they would give
their full support to the Archer bill which
has been framed to regulate the sale of
narcotic drugs In Pennsylvania. They also
declared they would work for an appro
priation for a State Institution for the care
and curing of dope fiends.
United States Senator Penrose said he
approved of any good measure which would
reduce the dope evil, nnd ho said that If,
In his opinion, the Archer bill contained the
proper provisions he would support It.
The Archer bill la tho outcomo of an in
vestlgatlon by a special cltliens' committee
appointed by United States District At
torney Francis Fisher Kane to Investigate
the dope scqurgo In this city.
The measure, which Is now only tentative,
was drawn by Plerco Archer, Jr., widely
known lawyer, and a former chief deputy
In the Internal Revenue Department of yila
city. It Is designed to prevent Illicit sales
of drugs by unscrupulous physicians and
dealers, nnd makes possession of narcotic
drugs a crime. It was designed to take the
place of the Harrison act which was
emasculated by recent decisions of the
United States Supreme Court.
"I will not only support tho bill," said
Senator Vare, "but I will Introduce It Into
the next session of tho Legislature and will
use all the Influence I have to force It
through. I believe that the narcotic drug
evil Is a growing ono, nnd It Is high time
we clamped down the lid and drove the
dopesters out of business. We musftop
,this ruining of thousands of our young men
nnd women by the tramc."
"I will gladly support such a measure,"
said Senator McNichol. "Something la
needed to stamp out the drug cll In Penn
sylvania. I have confidence In the legal
knowledge of Pierce Archer. Jr., and be
lieve that the final draft of tho bill will
be a good one. Great care should be taken
In framing this bill so It will not conflict
with the Federal narcotic drug net."
Senator Penrose said: "I thoroughly be
lieve In the principle of this movement to
suppress the drug evil, and If the bill Is
a good one I will be glad to lend It my
support."
Mrs. William Butler, wife of "Bill the
Dude," alleged leader of the International
blackmailing syndlcato which Is said to
have mulcted millions from violators of
tho Mann net, said today that the arrest
of her husband was brought about by his
enemies. She pointed to their modest little
home at 802 North Thirteenth street, nnd
called attention to the plain clothes she
wears ns evidence that her husband had
not accumulated large sums of money, as
has been charged against him.
"I don't care what they say nbout Billy."
she said, "I know moro about him than
anybody else. They haven't anything on
him. It Just makes me laugh to read In
papers that my husband participated In a
$1,000,000 yearly graft. 'Don't you think
If he was getting a slice out of that I'd be
wearing better clothes than these?"
She pointed to a modest house dress
that might have cost JI.B0.
"Why, If Billy was getting all that
money, don't you suppose we'd be living
In a fine house out on the Main Line? I
never saw this Kllpper woman and I nm
sure my husband doesn't know her. I
know that Billy Is Innocent of this. Of
course, a wife always thinks that, but I
have extra good reasons for knowing that
he Is Innocent."
The Importance of the complete set of
counterfeit Government badges, seals and
warrants selted in this city In the Investi
gation of the International blackmail syndi
cate Is realized by the Federal officials, who
hope that the discovery will lead to more
arrests.
SEEKS PRINTING PLANT
Secret service agents are now trying to
discover the whereabouts of n printing plant
where the blackmailing syndicate had bogus
warrants and Government papers printed.
It Is thought the syndicate established the
plant and maintained It. It Is believed,
also, that lawyers were connected with
the syndicate. The bogus warrants nnd
papers by which extortions were accom
plished bear evidence of having been framed
by a lawyer.
The paraphernalia, contained In a
Japanned tin box, consists of a counterfeit
United States seal, secret service and
United' States Marshals' badges and stacks
of fake United States warrants, by means
of which violators of the Mann white slave
act were Intimidated Into paying large sums
of money for Immunity from "arreBt."
Additional arrests are expected today.
William Butler and his brother, George
Butler, are under ball for further hearing
September 26. William Butler's ball was
fixed at (50,000 by United State Commis
sioner Long, and George Butler who has
been In Jail for the last seven weeks, was
released under $2000 ball.
In reality, William Butler's ball amounts
to $65,000. He was already under $15,000
ball on a charge of having attempted to
blackmail Mrs. Susan S. J. Wlnpenny, of
this city, widow of J. Bolton Wlnpenny, for
$8000, and was surrendered by one of his
bondsmen, Samuel Brown, of 330 South
Fifth street, yesterday morning. The de
mand for the unusually large additional
ball of $60,000 was made by Francis Fisher
Kane, United States District Attorney, who
personally represented the Government nt
the hearing. Last night the prisoner was
taken to the Camden County Jail, where
Federal prisoners awaiting trial In this
district are now held.
William Butler was Indicted on the
P. R.T. DECLARES
IN LINE'S HISTORY
$599,577 or 2 Per Cent on
Stock to Be Paid .
October 11
DECIDED AFTER FIGHT
Earnings Show Big Increase
and Surplus Will Be
Augmented
Continued on Tate Two, Column Una
The Philadelphia Rapid Transit Com
pany today declared the first dividend In
Us history. The amount was two per cent,
or $1 per share, as the stock has a par
aluo of $50. The announcement of the
dIUdend action by the directors came Just
as the annual meeting of the stockholders,
which was held In the company's offices nt
Eighth nnd Dauphin streets, was nbout to
be adjourned.
Announcement of the dividend was fol
lowed by brisk trading In the company's
stock on tho Philadelphia Stock Exchange,
the trust certificates advancing to 21, the
highest they havo sold since 1915. Blocks
of 200, 300 and 500 shares changed hands
at advancing prices.
Throughout tn-j morning the company's
trust certificates had been tho most active
In the trading on ll3 Stock Exchange and
the news of the dividend Increased tho In
terest." Union Trnctlon, the dividend of
which Is guaranteed by P. It. T., was also
activo and sold up IS-
SURPLUS OF $2,057,000
Ellis Ames Ballard, counsel for the com
pany, mado the announcement, the com
munication having been received by tele
phone from tho directors' meeting, which
was being held In the executlvo ofllcos In
the Land Title Building at the same time
that the nnnual meeting was taking place.
There were about forty stockholders pres
ent, and the statement was received with
applause. The stockholders recorded a for
mal vote 6t appreciation to the manage
ment. Since tho Issuance of the company's last
annual report, for the fiscal year ending
June 30, 1916, there has been much dis
cussion in the financial district as to
whether n. dividend would bo declared In
the near future. The company reported a
combined surplus of $2,987,975 nt the end
of the year, and It was figured that a divi
dend could very easily be declared and
that there would bo a surplus.
rFOjU3FOIVJ3rVII)LEND '.. - -
The first amount talked of as a possible
dividend was ono per cent, and then It
was said that If action by the directors was
not taken today It would surely be taken
Irf January. Tho fact that the directors
took the action in declaring the dividend
today was brought about only by hard pres
sure on them from persons who are large
stockholders.
From what could be learned In the finan
cial district the whole board did not favor
a distribution at this time, but that a ma
jority were In favor of making somo pay
ment. The dividend, therefore. Is the
culmination of a fight both within and out.
side of the board.
Reasons which had been advanced by the
directors, who were not In favor of the
dividend, were that the company should
conserve all of the money possible until
the agreement between the company and
the city had been finally entered Into.
The dividend means an outlay of $599,577
to the stockholders, the capital stock of
the company being $29,978,875, and was
very welcome to tho owners of tho stock,
who have waited patiently for some re
turn on their holdings since the organiza
tion of the company on May 1, 1902. The
dividend Is payable October 11 to stock
of record October 4.
While the annual meeting was going on
and Just prior to the announcement of the
dividend. Dr. Elizabeth Snyder, who has
enlivened previous annual meetings by
Continued on rase Two, Column One
1000 MAY BE VICTIMS
OF FLOOD IN BOHEMIA
Death List in Dam Disaster
Mounts Homeless Hundreds
Half Clothed'
BERLIN, Sept. 20. The loss of life In
the Bohemian ' flood, resulting from the
breaking of the White Desse dam, may
reach 1000.
Hundreds of persons are missing and It
Is feared their bodies wll be found 'inside
the houses floating downstream or entangled
In floating debris. Between 200 and 300
bodies already have been recovered. The
survivors are without food and many are
only partly clpthes. Hasty relief measures
are being taken.
Waves twenty feet high that swept over
the country for twelve miles, destroying
everything In their path, were liberated
when a. dam In the mountains of Bohemia,
near the German frontier, burst
The onrushlng water carried ..way many
glass-pojlahlng" factories, and it Is feared
that there are many victims. The bridges
were not destroyed, but are In danger of
collapse. The damage Is yery great
The villages of Deezendorf, Tlefenbach,
Tannwald, Schu'mburg, Schwarow, a rose
hammer and HaraU are Inundated.
Trolley Switch Causes Injury to Woman
A trolley switch at Seventh and Market
streets was responsible for the Injuries
of Mrs. Annie Crossley, sixty-two years old,
of 129 Master street, who Is In a serious
condition at ths Jefferson Hospital. While
crossing the street Mrs. Crowley caught
her foot in the switch and Ml again a
casting motor truck. Wm suJUr-ad lajora
iaW i HMm Hfftfc
EAST IS FAVORITE
IN BIGP0LO MATCH
Former Meadowbrook Players
Expected to Defeat South
at Bala
PHILADELPHIA COUNTRY CLUB,
Bala, Sept 20. The crack eastern polo
team, composed of members of the Meadow
brook Club, was a slight favorite over the
southern Quartet before the second match
In the series to determine the champion
ship of the United States started here this
afternoon.
The Interest In the match began to mani
fest Itself long before play was called In
the early arrival of the crowd and the In
terested discussion of the possible winner.
The selection of the eastern team was made
despite the last-minute substitution of
Thomas Hitchcock, Jr., for L. E. Stoddard,
which reduced the handicap granted the
southern team from If goals to 12, but
which robbed the metropolitan quartet of
playing strength.
With amtld breeze whipping the flags
and the band'boommg snappy marches, the
men settled back In their overcoats and the
women In their wraps, rich with color, and
patiently awaited the start of the contest,
the winner of which vdll play the Philadel
phia team next Saturday.
Scores upon scores of machines lined
the field long before the game started with
a steady stream arriving as the time for
trie calling of the match drew near, Llmou
sines emblazoned with crests stood side by
side with frail-looking "flivvers" and
termed an alot complete ring around the
PHILLIES SCORE SEVEN
RUNS IN THE SEVENTH
Cooper Knocked Out and Har
mon Replaces Him Demaree
Opposes Pirates
By CHANDLER D. RICHTER
PHILLIES' BALL PARK, Sept. 20.
Pittsburgh opened Its final series of the
season here today with a double-header.
The Pirates 'had their strongest line-up In
the field, with Hans Wagner at first
Both Demaree and Cooper got out of
holes In the first Inning. Pittsburgh had
two men on and the Phils had the bases
clogged, but neither Hlnchman nor Luderus
could come through In the pinch.
Fischer and Burns were the respective
catchers.
FIRST INNING
Warner singled through Bancroft. BIgbee
lifted a fly to Crnvath. Carey hit the
right-field fence for a single, but Warner
was out trying to take third, Cravath to
Bancroft to Stock. Carey took second on
the play. Stock made a pretty catch of
Hlnchraan's fly. No runs, two hits, no
errors'.
' Paskert singled to left; Bancroft filed
to Fischer in fro fit of the iilate. Stock
was sufo on Warner's fumble, Paekert tak
ing second. Whltted was out Fischer to
Wagner, Paskert and Stock both advanc
ing a base. Cravath was purposely walked,
filling the bases. Smith tossed out Luderus.
No runs, one hit one error.
SECOND INNING
Wagner was thrown out by Demaree.
Schulte singled through Bancroft. Schulte
died stealing. Burns to Bancroft Smith
filed to Whltted. No runs, one hit, no
errotv.
NleJw saatMlc ut Burns doubled to
'i
QUICK NEWS
PITTSBURGH. .. 000000000-0 7 2
PHILLIES, IstG.. 00000700X 7 11 0
Cooper, Hnrinou nnd Fischer; Scmnrco nnd Burns. Enson nnuTTiglcr.
PITTSBURGH.... 0
PHILLIES,2dG... 2
Mnmnux nnd Tischer; Demaree nnd Burns. Ensou nnd lllgler.
ST. LOUIS O -
BROOKLYN O
Ames nnd Gonzales; Smith nnd Miller.
ATHLETICS,
CHICAGO
DEMAREE SCAIPS PIRATES IN FIRST GAME OF TWIN BILL
PHILLIES r h o a c
Paskert, cf 113 0 0
Bancroft, ss 12 2 5 0
Stock, 3b 0 0 3 0 0
Whittcdli o 1 S 0 0
Cravath, rf 12 2 10
Luderus, lb , i n 0 0
Niciioff,2b 1115 0
Burns.c 12 0 10
Dcmarcc,p 110 2 0
PITTSBURGH r h o a e
Warncr,3b 0 2 12 1
Bigbcc,2b 0 0 0 11
Carey, cf 0 110 0
Hinchman.H 0 12 0 0
J. Wagner, lb 0 18 0 0
Schulte, rf 0 12 0 0
Smith, ss 0 0 3 10
Fischer, c 0 0 7 3 0
Cooper, p 0 1" 0 0 0
Harmon, p 0 0 0 10
Totals.
7 11 27 1 0
Totals o 7 24 8 2
nrsurrrmr iti-it in t nrt
IUIUIV III It I,. M, I'll -:'
BROKE IN LEAP TO
ELUDE ABDUCTORS
Five Men Held for Attempt-"
ed Attack on Young
Woman U
STORY TOLD IN COURTS
CONNECTICUT DEMOCRATS NAME CUMMINGS FOR SENATE
NKW HAVKN, Conn., Sept. 20. Homer S. Cummlngs, of Stamford, vice ihalr
man of the Democratic National Committee, was today nominated for the United
States Scnalo by the Democratic State Convention. Judgo Morris H. Benrdsley, of
Bridgeport, was nominated for Governor.
ITALIAN ARMY MARKS OCCUPATION OF ROME
HOME, Sept. 20. In tho midst of wnr tho Italian army solemnly observed Sep
tember 20, the forty-sixth anniversary of tho occupation of Itomo by the Italians.
On this date In 1870 tho Holy City pasned from tho temporal power of ttyj Pope.
There, were UIr cclobratioiiu in all the larpe cities nnd throughout the country.
TeleRrams of .congratulation were exchanged by the Klnp, tho Premier nnd tho
Mayor of Rome. McssaKCH were sent to the troops at the front and the merry
making was general.
THREE PRIVATE CHICAGO BANKS CLOSE DOORS
CHICAGO, Sept. 20. Three prlvnte banks operated by W. II. Paisley & Sons
closed their doors today. Tho Institutions were known ns the North Shore Savings
Bank, the Summerdale Savings Hank nnd the Hroudwny and Grace Street Bank.
Crowds began collecting in front of nit three Institutions as soon as the news spread
and police were dispatched to prevent rioting. All the concerns aro reported to
have been patronized henvlly. A report was spread that tho banks wero oolvent
and that depositors would get their money, but it failed to allny tho panicky feeling
among the crowds of depositors.
BERLIN DENIES AIRSHIP DEPOTS WRECK
BKRI.IN, Sept. 20. London reports that the German airship depot at Frank-fort-on-Maln
had been burned, with Its contents, where airships nnd fifty aeroplanes
were stored, wero officially denied today nnd branded "complete inventions."
CITY'S DEATH RATE DECREASES TO 15.6
Philadelphia's death rnte In 1915 wiis 1E.G for each 1000 persons, while the aver
age death rate for tho entire country was 13.3. Tho Pittsburgh rate was 15.3, and
that of the entire State 13.8, The death rate statistics for the country Were
announced by the Bureau of Vital Statistics of the Department of Commerce.
Philadelphia Is reported to have had 26,291 deaths during the last year, and the
rate was fixed on basis of an estimated population of 1,683,664 persons.
FORTY CIVILIANS KILLED IN FOOD RIOTS IN GERMANY
LONDON, Sept. 20. Pi ess dispatches from Tho Hague report food riots at
Chemnitz, Saxony, in which forty civilians wero killed before order was restored.
Tho mobs, according to the dispatches, wero charted by Hussars, five of whom were
killed and fourteen wounded.
EIGHT-HOUR DAY FOR TRAINMEN IN CANAL ZONE
WASHINGTON, Sept. 20. An eight-hour workday for train crews and switch
engine crews in the Panama Canal Zone has been established by Governor Goethals
by executive order. Exception Is mado In case of emergency, when permission for
overtime must be obtained from Zone authorities.
FLEA THEORY ABANDONED IN PARALYSIS FIGHT
NKW YOniv, Sept. 20. Kfforts of Federal nnd city hoalth authorities to deter
mine the source of Infantile paralysis have been unsuccessful thus far, it Is dis
closed In an announcement by United States Public Health Service officials of the
abandonment of the latest theory that the rat flea transmitted tho disease.
RUSSIA PLANS NEW WAR LOAN OF $1,500,000,000
LONDON, Sept. 20, A new war loan by the Russian Government la proposed,
according to a neuter dispatch from Petrograd, The plan is to Issue at the end of
October a new Internal 6'A per cent ten-year loan fcr 3,000,000,000 rubles ($1,000, 000,
000) the price of issue to be 95.
100,000 VOTERS REGISTERED ON SECOND DAY
Registration of voters was .heavy yesterday, the second day set aside for quail,
flcatlon of those who desiro to participate In the presidential contest In November,
according to reports received by political leaders last night. It was estimated that
close to 100,000 voters went to trie divlson polling places to add their names to
the lists.
. SEVEN MEN INJURED IN POWDER FLARE-UP
HASICELL, N. J., bil. 20. Another mterIoua explosion in the du Pont powder
works last night Injured three men fatally and severely burned four others. The
Careup of COO pounds of powder occurredln. the mixing house. The explosion lighted
tho sky for miles,
AVIATOR' FALLS 1200 FEET IN REBUILT MACHINE
BHAWNEW. Olila., Sept. 20. M. Q. Roberts, of Rupert, Vt., was Instantly Wiled
In a fall of 1200 feet in an aeroplane, The machine he was flying was said to have
been on its first flight since It was recently rebuilt.
&322
fMiS,T!
STATE LOSES 851,956,776 ON COAL WASTES
Pennsylvania Is throwing away each year coal products worth $51,JB6,776.0,
according to statistics prepared by C, E. Lesher, of tho United States Geological
Survey. Pennsylvania's waste lies In the failure to utilise) the by-products of coke
making, Mr, Lesher says. The entire country In UlG carbonls4 lt.tM.W) tun
at soft coal.wkh by-product reMy. The resukiog ek, lt,MZ,WC teas, ta
taw 'Mr iiM,m, ar w y inj it. f
fy; . w
tt.fSf ..: -.-d
S "
CfcW
I a --T ?. A -H J
MiTffifl 3.7WI
MISS EDNA G. BOYLE iWj&
A thrilling story of how she was kid
napped and knocked unconscious and how '
sho leaped from a taxlcab, breaking her .
leg, to escape her flye abductors, was '
.told today before Magistrate Harris, by J?
Mien Edna G. Boyle, daughter of Albert.
J. Boyle, a well-to-do contractor, of 98
North Forty-seventh Btreet. ,
Miss Boyle, a pretty young woman of about i
twenty-five years of age, recounted a story
that -recalled to tho crowded magistrate's 3
court tho sensational leap for safety. of
May Naohy. the rlrl whose skull was"
fractured last spring under slmlllar clr
cumstances. Hobbling Into court on crutches .-
sne accused nve young men of aDductlnri ,vt"
oners were held In S800 each ball for court.
The aIlegednhductlon nnd nervy escape?
occurred at midnight, July 29, Miss Bpyle
said. She leaped from the machine near.ifi
the Zoological Gardens, Falrmount Park. -'
. t
The flvo men held are Wlll.'am Johnson,
3617 Haverford avenue; Michael Dough-
erty, 38E3 Wallace street; George E. Davis,
628 North Chadwlck street; Carl Lewis,
alias Earl Miller, 3610 Melon street, and,
Martin Murphy, 7S0 North DelCalb street
The charges against them are assault aad
battery with Intent to commit a felony and1
Intent to hill, highway robbery, conspiracy
and kidnapping.
"Until men of such stamp are adequately
punished the parks will not be safe for our
wives, mothers and daughters," hotly d-".
clared ex-Mayor Weaver, who represented
Miss Boyle. "It will not be safe for them
to walk the streets." !-.
Ills heated statement was In rejoinder M
the efforts of the prisoner's attorneys to
discount Miss Boyle's accusation.
otiihpl Awn riVtmTyrwxri.'mrrk
According to Miss Boyle's testimony, sh '
was leaving a 'cafe at Thirty-sixth stree
and Haverford avenue alone shortly before;
midnight on July 29 when three of the Aval
men, with whom she was slightly aVjl
qualnted, surrounded her and overpowered
her. To silence her they struck her treml
behind and one roughly 'placed his hinds'.
over her mouth, she said. Then a heavy
blow rendered her unconscious.
"When I awoke I was in a taxlcab wfthyj
the five men," she continued. "We were '
going rapidly along the West niver drive,
in the park, but tho machine slowed down M
on approaching the ulrard avenue bridge, ;
l lay Villi u uiuiiiciii ufiu men nun il 7&3K
strength began screaming and kicking. I'3
tore myself loose and Jumped out of tk -
machine.
DUAGGED FnOM ROADSIDE
"My tight leg crumpled under me and.
I felt it snap. They stopped the machMfrj!
and came ovtr to where I was lying.
Look out; the girl's leg Is hurt. iJ
heard one of them say.
" 'Never mind,' said another, who I tblftk :
was Doychorty. They dragged me towaf
the shrubbery near the. Zoological Oardisn, j
I screamed, and when I heard footatJ
and shouts I fainted again."
Miss Iloile was rescued, by Park Qwtasj
Chobart and Pollcemenj Heavy, Summ
and McQowan, of the Thirty-ninth atr
and Lancaster avenue stattoo, who
heard her cries as she Jesped from
motorcar, As the policemen rushed, I
the struggling group the Ave asulUntf i
Miss Boyle was taken to ine
nltal, where she was under treat
a few days ago.
The five prisoners wtwsi she faos4L4
Magistrate Harris" Cewt today won "
r..ted on deacrietieea iWBUbod th
by Miss Boyle', ThojT tooled they
Miss BoylVs assailants.
Alabama Cavalry to MUUm
MONTGOMERY,, Ala., Sept. 10,
skMiifc's ()' full oavalry ro
te''.M S" w
