il
-4- - ' 1
Ws Metal Prices ! ffl )T V QUVywv F1! I
J irirt?o7oSrller- u5"s; 7 '7vv f f7 v wv WEATHERul!lh: T.m9ht ,
i copper, S27.0028.25. M Afi 1 V- Thursday Fair; Not Much Change In
I f 1 : os fe- Temperature. I
Tf . FEARLEaa, INDEPENDENT, PROGRESSIVE NEWSPAPER.
1 ' slxth Vear-No- 22G- Price Five Cent,. OGDEN CITY, UTAH, VNESDAEVENING, SEPTEMBER20Tl916. "entered as Second-Clasn Matter at th c Postoff.ce, Ogden, uJT H
i Ogden Becomes Packing House Center J I
I Owing to Its Natural Advantages II
IBas Sent an Ultimatum
to the German
Emperor.
Fighting on a huge scale is In prog
ress along: the eastern war front,
whence the center of Interest has
shifted, following the letup in the
tieavy allied attacks along- the Somme
in the west.
Evidence is accumulating that the
central powers are now devoting their
uain attention to the campaigns in
he east, sending largo forces against
Rumania, notably under Field Mar
Vh, Bnal Von Mackensen in Dobrudja and
fltf I putting all possible available men into
18 I the field to stop the Russian march
'- on Lemberg by way of Halicz and the
m h menacing drives of the Russians and
atl? j! Rumanians in the Carpathians and
I Transylvania.
jt ; Both Berlin and Sofia report the
ilfii 4 development of a great battle on the
Welll line the Russians and Rumanians
i on 1 have taken un in Dobrudja to defend
1917,' tlie railroad route into interior Ru
,rj j mania from Constanza, on the Black
ator ' sea- The engagement, they declare,
jj I is turning in favor of the forces of
S the central powers under Von Mack
Vi onsen. Latest reports from the fight
:S j ing in Galicia and Volhynia show the
$ Teutonic forces on the offensive and
claiming decided advantages :0ver-' the
I " Russian armies under General Brus-
I riloff.
-j As has frequently been the case
' when decisive developments were
lacking, Petrograd today is silent re
5 garding the operations along the Rus
! slan front, reporting merely that there
have been no Important happenings,
j Turkish troops, which appear to
i have played an important art in stlf
1 fening the lines of the Teutonic allies
I in the east, have been successful in
the recent fighting in Galicia, Constan
tinople announces today. A 48-hour
: battle with superior Russian forces re
sulted in the Turks completely main
j taining their positions.
In Macedonia the trend of the cam
; palgn appears to favor the entente
9 armies. The Serbians are reported In
a continued advance along the west
1 em end of the line, driving the re
maining Bulgarians out of Fiorina and
i ' capturing the highest peak in the
Kaimakcatan range, north of Lake
Ostrovo. Sofia, however, denies the
1 success claimed for the Serbians in
the Kaimakcatan region.
Greece again appears as a probable,
new factor, in the military field in the
Balkans. She is reported to have sent
' an ultimatum to Germany demanding
j the return of tho Greek troops taken
at Kavala by the Bulgarians and sent
' to Germany for interment.
Comparative quiet prevails in the
! Somme region. Paris sends news of
m a German attack at Hill 76, north of
-fj tho river which tho French occupied,
I ' ejecting such Germans as succeeded
1 in gaining a foothold in advanced po
fi sltlons.
If Aerodrome Burning Denied,
fj Berlin. Sept 20, by wireless to Say-
01 vine The Overseas News Agency
Ij- says the recently published report
II that an aerodrome near Frankfort
II was burned causing the destruction
ifl of fifteen aeroplanes and four nearly
J.'l completed Zeppelins Is untrue.
II London, Sept. 20, 4:20 p. m. Reu-
15 ter's Telegram company says it learns
ft offlcialls that tho Greek government
if has submitted a very urgent note to
H Germany regarding the removal to
f I Gerraanv of Greek troops from Kavala
i and demanding that they bo released.
Il - Premier Confers With King.
1 London, Sept 20, 2:35 p. m. A Reu-
T ' tor's dispatch from Athens under date
vJ of September ID says:
A; "It Ib learned on good authority
I: that this morning's conference of Pre-
I mler Kalogeropoulos and the foreign
t ; minister with King Constantino re-
I; Bulted in a derision in principle for a
f departure from neutrality with a view
mU I to dissipating the entente's apparent
5 dlstnist of tho new cabinet.
POPE BENEDICT
i NOT INDISPOSED
.! Rome, Tuesday, Sept 29 Via Paris,
Sept. 20, 10:30 a, m. A report having
: been circulated that Pope Benedict
i was Indisposed, it was said at the
Vatican today that tho hoalth of the
pope was normal, notwithstanding the
l, strain Imposed by his arduous labora
during the war. The pontiff received
several persons In private audience
today and several hundred in a collec
Atlve audience.
GREAT LOSS IN
SOMME BATTLE
Berlin Estimates British and
French Casualties at Five
Hundred Thousand.
SUCCESSES ARE COSTLY
Price Paid for Territory Re
captured From the Germans
Is Appalling.
Berlin, Sept 20, by wireless to Say
vlllo. British and French losses in
the battle of the Somme have reached
about 500,000 men, the Overseas News
Agpncy estimates.
"Recent local successes obtained by
the British on the Somme are herald
ed by the English press as great vic
tories and even occasioned a special
message from King George to the
British commander, General Sir Dou
glas Halg," eays the ncwB agency. "It
is said the British occupied the vil
lages of Flers, Martlnpuich and Cour
celette In the first day's fighting al
though it had been planned to take
them in the course of four days of
battle.
"Nevertheless, the British were en
abled to make this advance only after
eleven wcekB of the most desperate
efforts. Tho result of tho battle of
tho Somme Bhould be guaged by con
sidering the amount of Belgian and
French territory occupied by the Ger
mans which amounts in all to about
50,000 squaro kilometers. Of this, 29,
000 is Belgian and 21,000 French. The
efforts made by the French and Brit
ish have resulted in the reconquest of
only 1500 square kilometers or three
per cent.
"The prlco paid for this territory
Is appalling. According to a conserv
ative estimate the British lost 350,
000 men up to September 15. This,
together with the French losses,
brings up the total to about half a
million men."
oo
STILL DISCUSSING
BORDER TROUBLES
New London, Conn., Sept 20. Fur
ther consideration of the plans sug
gested for the control of the border,
figured today In tho conference of the
Mexican-American joint commission
ers. It was not expected any plan
suggested would be adopted soon for
recommendation to tho two govern
ments, and it appeared probable that
notwithstanding the reluctance of the
Mexican members to discuss the In
tormal affairs of their country, such
questions as the American commis
sioners consider related to tho general
BituatIonwould be' taken up.
Without Subsidy, a Million-Dollar Plant
Proclaims den's Siperior Facilities
li Developing a Most Important Industry
Assurances that the new pork pack
ing plant of the Ogden Packing & Pro
vision company will be completed
early in November and will be ready
for operation at that time to its ca
pacity of 1,250 head of hogs each day
have shown that Ogden is not only
the logical center for tho meat-packing
industry of the entire intermoun
tain country, but that It has the im
mediate facilities for handling all of
the hogs and most of the cattle and
sheep that will be offered for market
ting in this region.
The tremendous stride taken by tho
company this year in building this
$300,000 addition to its plant and pre
paring for even further enlargements
that will again more than double its
output, has brought notice to the
commercial development of the city.
It has resulted, along with active and
aggressive sales campaigns by the
company, in tho opening of new mar
kets for Utah's meat products and
bids fair to bring the demand of sev
eral foreign lands for shipments from
the Ogden Packing & Provision com
pany plant But most important of
Its developments has been the In
creased demand for livestock, hogs In
particular, bo that the farming people
of the entire intermountain country,
including both Utah and Idaho, will be
called upon to produce many more of
the porkcrB in tho future than over in
the past
Ogden's value as a packing-house
center has come because of its central
ization of railroads jvhlch have
brought a situation where the Ogden
Packing & Provision company's plant
Is not only oentrally located as to tho
pork-producing area of the Intermoun
tain country, but also as to the ship
ping of Its output
With this has been combined tho
active and aggressive development
work, both as to production and distri
bution, through the officers and em
ployes of tho packing company ever
since its original foundation in 1901.
8urvlval of Fittest.
On the other hand, the record of
other meat-packing industries located
at various times in the state of Utah
has been such as to show that other
cities are not properly located as
meat-packing centers. Many of these
companies have gone into bankruptcy,
others have been near the verge of
banlrruptcy, some havo voluntarily re
tired from business. Plants of vari
ous kinds devoted at ono time to tho
meat-packing business are now idle,
while the Ogdon Packing & Provision
company's development has been con
stant Tho Ogden Packing company was
incorporated In 1901, being a consoli
dation of tho business conducted by
Lars Hansen, now president of the
largo -corporation, and the Ogden
Packing company. S. S. Jensen, sec
rotary and manager of the Ogden
Packing & Provision company, was
one of tho original incorporators.
Later, in 1906, the company was re
organized as tho Ogden Packing '&.
Provision company, its first building
was constructed for permanent use,
and the development of tho industry
in Utah really started. There has
'been constant growth ever since, al
though the greatest expansion covers
tho period of 1913, 1914, 1915 and 191G,
for these years will show that the
plant has increased more than four
fold in its capacity through building
of new additions.
The Newest Unit.
Not satisfied with the present de
velopment, however, the company is
building the newest units of the plant
so that there will be little difficulty
in placing additions to tho cold stor
age structures, and thus bringing an
other great growth, about 150 to 200
per cent, in the pork-packing section
of the establishment. This immense
addition is now well under way, being
built by James Stewart & Co. The
fact that about 1?C men are employed
in the structural work at the present
time shows the effort to complete the
buildings as rapidly as possible.
The pork-packing structures will
cost ?300,000 and will bring the total
investment of the company to over
11,000,000, lis present capital.
When this new addition Is com
pleted, the present structures will bo
entirely utilized for tho handling of
sheep and cattle, giving double tho
output of beef, veal and mutton.
Building for the Future.
Masslvo In its capacity and com
plete in all of the details as to equip
ment, the new addition is arranged as
the first unit for the enlarged plant
that the company anticipates will de
velop In Ogden, being so arranged
that while the cold storage capacity
is arranged at first for 1,250 head of
hogs per day, tho building of an
L-shapod addition to the storage sec
tion will increase the facilities to care
for 3,000 head. At the same time, it
will be unnecessary to build any fur
ther additions to the killing floor and
similar sections to be built this year,
tho additional equipment simply being
installed in the building that will be
finished this year.
Tho now structure will be, in its
principal portion, five stories in
height, with a full basement It will
be 100 feet in width and 200 feet long.
Tho three-story tankhouse, adjoining
to the west, will be 100x40 feet in
floor space, and tho power plant will
be another 100x50-foot building, ono
and three stories in height
Cold storage facilities aro provided
In the east end of the now building,
while the pickling collars -will he lo
cated throughout the entire length
and breadth of the basement. The
elevators for handling- dressed and
cured meats will be through the cen
ter of the building, with tho killing
floor located at the very top of the
structure and the other four floors of
the structure devoted to tho dressing
of the meat and tho handling of by
products. Tho building will contain scarcely a
picco of wood, being of concrete and
steel construction throughout. There
has been a revolution In packing
house construction in recent years,
and the hew type is recommended by
tho department of agriculture as a
means for the best sanitation and
handling of meats and meat products.
Tho present plant of the company
will be devoted, after the completion
of the new building, exclusively to the
handling of beef and mutton, while the
additional unit will handle nothing
but pork and pork products. Tho
equipment will be the very latest in
design, meeting the approval of the
department of agriculture at Wash
ington, D. C, and arranged for the
moBt economical and systematic
handling of the products. Purchase of
the machinery has already been made
by the company's officers, and some
of the machinery has arrived.
Will Have Great Output.
Railroad facilities for the plant will
be greatly increased In order to handle
the incoming and outgoing business.
The plans call for the killing of 1,250
head of hogs, 1,500 sheep and 300
head of cattle each day when operat
ing to the maximum of capacity. This
will require 15 Incoming cars for tho
hogs and nine cars for the ISO.OOO
pounds of dressed pork; six Incoming
cars for 1,500 sheep and four outgoing
for 75,000 pounds of mutton; ten cars
for 300 cattle incoming and eight cars
for 165,000 pounds of dressed beef
outgoing. This will make a total of i
31 Incoming cars and 19 outgoing cars
each day.
So as to handle the incoming and
outgoing cars, two tracks are being j
placed by the railroads from the
Southern Pacific yards westerly be
tween the present and the new" build
ings of the packing house. In addi
tion, the present trackage from the
north into the company's yards will be
left for handling livestock, at least
temporarily. The changes will neces
sitate a large increase in the refriger
ator car service for the company, as
shipments mado to distant points,
such ns Los Angeles, Butte, San Fran-
Cisco, New York, Boston, Atlanta and
other eastern cities, bring utilization
of cars for a week or more for one
shipment
Tho present buildings of the com
pany occupy a ground area of 1G0 by
100 feet and, with tho exception of
the office structure, aro three and four
stories in height with basements un
der the entiro structure. The office
is one-story with basement More
than half of the present plant is built
oi concrete and steel and' when com
pleted two years ago was the highest
standard of packing-houso building in
the west.
History of the Plant.
Historically, the development of the
packing company is of great interest
for it has been moro rapid than even
most western Industries. In 1901 the
Ogdon Packing company was incorpo
rated. Tho amount of capital invest
ed was small, tho now corporation be
ing started with 97,500 as its basis.
The company had no buildings; it
merely rented a slaughter house.
Fresh meats were handled, but the
company did not attempt then to do
any packing.
Reorganization of the company was
(Continued on Pago 10.)
MDtMTS
Action of Administration in
Averting Railroad Strike Is
Declared "Unpardon
able." IS FRIEND OF LABOR
Adamson Law a Blow to Labor
and Enterprise and Step
Toward Civil War.
Green Bay, Wis., Sept. 20. The
pathway of "surrender to force"
Charles E. Hughes told an audience
here today, In renewing his attack on
tho administration for the Adamson
; law, leads to but one end "civil war."
1 Mr. Hughes referred to the action of
tho administration as "unpardonable."
The nominee also declared that no
body could embarrass him by talking
about Americanism.
"I am for the United States first,
' last and all tho time, without regard
to anyone or to anything else," he
OUlUi
I Is Friend of Labor.
"I speak with added emphasis as tho
friend of labor," Mr. Hughes said in
discussing the Adamson law, "when I
I say that the serious blow delivered re
cently at labor and enterprise In this
' country was unpardonable, that blow
' being the surrender of the principle of
arbitration, of reason to force.
"Wo look forward in this country to
a future vory uncertain, unless we
have peaceful settlement of grievances
by a careful examination and open
minded consideration of the facts.
"When a man does not agree with
his neighbor, they arc not allowed to
fight it out in the public square. They
have to go into a court of law and
fight it out there, not on the public
square. Wo havo had times when
railroad companies refused absolute
ly arbitration of differences. But we
have had public sentiment developing
greatly since that time. Wo have a
new spirit in this country, I believe.
All we have to do is to stand firmly
for principle and we can get justice
done. The other way simply means
the rule of Btrength. There Is only
one end to that path and that end is
civil war."
Talks About the Tariff.
Mr. Hughes then went into detail a
to his views on the tariff. Ho spoko
from a platform on the court house
stops to an audienco standing in the
yard. Afterwards ho held a brief pub
lic reception.
In previous addresses today at She
boygan and Manitowoc where large
crowds turned out with brass bands
to greet him, tho nominee sketched
his views on tho issues of the cam
paign. Ho also talked on American
ism. His audiences wero composed
largely of persons of foreign extrac
tion. The nominee left Green Bay at 1:15
o'clock for Applcton, whore his pro
gram called for a rear platform ad
Bulgars and Rumanians
in Death Grips in
Dobrudja. I
Bucharest. Rumania, Sept 20. Via
London, 2:13 p. m, Tho official re
port Issued today by the Rumanian
war office announces that the Ruman
ians have gained a success against the
German and Bulgarian troops in tho
province of Dobrudja. The fighting
waB in the region of Enigea, 19 miles
south of the Constanza-Tzernavoda
railway. Tho battle in this region
continues, the statement adds, "where
the Rumanian efforts are directed '
against the principal enemy forces
according to movement prescribed by
command."
Stubborn Fight is On.
Berlin, Sept 20. Via London, 5:22
p. m. Stubborn and fluctuating bat
ties are going on in the province of
Dobrudja between Russo-Rumanlan
'forces and German and Bulgarian H
troops, says today's German official
statement The Russians and Ruman
ians have hastily brought up reinforce
ments, the statement adds, and are
1 defending their positions with great
stubbornness.
Rumanians Are Defeated.
Berlin, Sept 20. Via London, 5:22
p. m. Rumanian forces which invaded
Transylvania through the Szurduk
pass of the Transylvania Alps havo
been defeated and driven back over
the pass, the war office announced to-
Russians Cleaning Streets.
Berlin, Sept. 20. By wireless to
Sayvllle. "It is reported from Sofia,"
says the Overseas News Agency, "that
the Russian army which entered east
em Rumania had with it a whole brig
ade of officials who wero to adminis
ter conquered Bulgarian cities. These
officials were captured and are now at
work cleaning the streets of the same
cities which they were to govern."
President Prepared to Meet
Hughes Attack on Railroad
Eight-hour Law.
PLAN FOR FUTURE H
Complete Plan to Be Strongly
Urged for Enactment by IH
Next Session.
Long Branch, N. J., Sept. 20. Pres
ident Wilson and Vance C. McCor
mick, Democratic national chairman,
mapped out here today a program for
meeting the campaign, attacks of
Charles E. Hughes on the railroad jH
eight-hour law.
Asserting that the Democrats would jH
show that the president placed before jH
congress a complete program to meet J
the recently threatened strike by rail
way employes. Mr. McCormlck as
serted that Mr. Wilson is prepared to
urge strongly during the next session IH
of congress tho enactment of this pro
gram. The Republicans, he declared, seem jH
to ignore everything in the program IH
except the one item passed by con-
gress. Mr. McCormick added that it 'H
would be shown clearly how tho presl- IH
dent plans to minimize the possibility IH
of a repetition of the railroad sltua- jH
tion' which arose recently. IH
Non-Partisan Speeches. H
Long Branch, N. X, Sept. 20. Pres- jH
ident Wilson swung into campaign H
form today. With his plan for dis-
cussing public questions before non- H
partisan organizations instead of mak- JJ
lug campaign tours fully decided B
upon, he actively took up his political jHMI
plans after a lull of moro than a week H
caused by the Illness and death of uis
Mrs. Anne E. Howe. H
Germans Win H
LondonH
p. m. In a hand grenade attcH
the British troops near FlersH
Somme front, the Germans TM
some success, says thH
man army headquarters.
dun sector tho GermansH
French a small 1H
slope Dead IH
