MRS. OKLAHOMA
How was your dinner Utt night? Did dad say he liked everything? Or are you pretty much in a rut at a cook, dishing out the tame old potatoes and (teak aad tU whSar I
that variety which is the spice of life? The Times wants to help you give variety to your meals that will make dad and the boys gallop to the dinner table like colt for 3. 1
pasture. We're putting on a Better Menu Contest. The plan is to give a bunch of prizes of five dollars each for the best menu for a family of two, throe, four, fiVsj,
seven and eight people. Then we'll pay fifty cents for every menu published and we're going to publish one a day. The idea is to preach economy, variety and palaial! j
ness. neip us out with your favorite day s menu break! sit, luncheon and dinner, and we 11 help you u you read the menus published. 7
Oklahoma city times
OUR STATE FAIR
SEPT. 23-30
(Published by The Oklahoma Publishing Co.)
VOL. XXVIII. NO. 147.
OKLAHOMA CITY, WEDNESDAY, SEITEMHEK 20, 1910. ught lamj-s at 6: p. m.
PRICS ONt CENT
ON TRAINS FIVE CENTS,
A CAPOTES
EPORT AT BQRDEB
HOME
EDITIOtJ I
ClfflAiOA, 81
V A J
CHURCH MISLED,
FACT DISTORTED,
VAIIGHT CHARGES
Startling Testimony Given by
Epworth Truster,
HOT TILT 7n INCIDENT
Classen nnd Lawyer in Clash;
Trial Ends.
'I hat the Manguiu lotifrreiue of the
Methodist K)ImhmI church, south,
held III I'M I, which veiled Id fight lor
possession o( llie Kpworth university
property, was misled as to the fails
and that tlir facts were misrepresented,
was the sensational i barge made m
distritt court in the Kpworth university
trial this moriuiiK hy I'd S. Vaught of
Oklahoma City
Vaught, it inembrr of the Imard of
trustees when the hoard recommended
to the conference discontinuance of the
school and return of the property to
the donor, was recalled to the stand,
lie said he voted to reeommein) such
action because of the lack of support
given the institution and because of the
financial difficulty the school was in.
Refuses Recommendation.
The Mangum ronferenre refused to
adopt the recommendation, hut voted
to fight for the property, and employed
attorneys at a fee of $50,1)00 to prose
cute the case.
When asked why he did not abide
by the wishes of the conference and
fight for possession of the property, or
resign, aught declared the confer
ence had been misled as to the facts
in the case; that the facts had been mis
repreiented; that the conference was
inconsistent; that he thought the
.church "had no right, moral or legal,
to the property. He laid he never
thought of resigning. He stated lie
thought the action of the trustees in
recommending the close of the school
and return of the property was final.
Another Seen in Court.
Closing of the Kpworth case today
was marked by another scene, in which
Anton II. C lassen, chief figure in the
cae. and llayden I.incbaugh, United
States district attorney for eastern Ok
lahoma and counsel for the M. I
rhurch, south, were the principal ae
tata. Classen, recalled to identify an
( original drawing of the Kpworth
(Contlmirit in rs Turn.)
ALABAMAN POURS
COMPLIMENTS ON
CITY'S ADVANCE
This Best Town, Commercial
ly, in America, He Says.
George C. kelley, capitalist of Minn
ingham. Ala., after srvrsjil days of in
vestigation, declared today that Okla
homa City is in a better commercial
condition than any ctly in the I'nited
States. Mr. Kelley at one time was a
resident of Oklahoma C ity. He opened
the Oak Park addition on the east side.
Kelley avenue is named for him. lie
owns the Western National bank build
ing and other property here.
During a call at Mayor Ovrrholser's
office Mr, Kelley reviewed the growth
of this. city and said it had outpaced
any he knew. When he left Oklahoma
City for Birmingham, Seventh street
was the north limits, there was little
Improved coperty in south town, and
Oak Park addition had just been
opened. ,'
Makei Comparison.
Jn Rirmingham, a city of 184 0(10
peopl-, we have eight buildings, that
ran he called skyscrapers. Here you
have fifteen. We have four bank and
yoti have fourteen. Only In one thing
hnve w; beaten you in building, we
have one twenty-six story office build
ing and one in which there are 700
rooms," Mr. Kelley said.
"Jut now commercial conditioni are
not of the best in Birmingham nnd I
came h?re for new optimism. Since I
have been here I hive heard just one
pessimist and I have seen nothing In
Oklahoma City to justify him."
Compliments the City.
Mr. KelV-y complimented the mayor
on the cleanliness of the city.
"This morning when I came out of
the hotel I opened a letter and started
to throw the envelope down. Then I
looked around I was afraid to. The
streets were so clean that the envelope
was conspicuous and I carried it until
I ronM poke it away somewhrre out
of sight. That it the feeling your stY
gives visitors." - ---..
While here Mr. Kelley plant a i
prove om o( his property.
AMATEUR THESPIANS
OFFERED CHANCE TO
CARRY ROMAN SPEAR
A I .'I III )l'(,ll the movies, "voile
Mile" and the legitimate stage
have overlooked ambitious
thespic talent in Oklahoma City
right along, there arrived here to
day a man who's going to give near
ly everybody an atom of the dra
matic in his soul a chance to make
good I Ic's lennings, di
rector of, "The Last Pays oi Pom
pen," the magnif u ent spectacle to he
presented at the Oklahoma State
1 air. lie's advertising for actors.
Mr. Jennings wants ,VKI men and
boys and twenty-five women and
girls to report to him at 7 M) o'clock
this evening. He'll put them through
the gtacr and paces at the I air
grounds ami tram them for the work
of a splendid chorus to make fine
tableaux in front of steaming Vesu
vius. Perhaps spears and helmets
and garlands of flowers will In
handed out to the greats ami near
greats -if not tonight, then they will
he later
Anyhow, there's a chance for ,ljs
people to get on the stage if they'll
report tonight to Mr Jennings at the.
bairgroimds.
Pope Confers
High Rank on
Local Bishop
Papal Title of Count and Cer
tain Privileges Given Rt.
Rev. Meerschacit.
Fxtraordinary honors have been con
ferred hy Pope Benedict upon the Rt.
Rev. Theophile Meerschaert. bishop of
Oklahoma, who rtcently celebrated the
twenty-fifth anniversary of his conse
cration, a cablegram from the Vatican
at Rome received here today an
nounced. The bishop now has the title
of papal count and is accorded certain
privileges few Catholic dignitaries in
America enjoy.
The pontiff confers the dignity and
title of assistant to the pontifical
throne upon the Oklahoma prelate and
congratulates him upon his silver jub
ilee The royal appointment carries
with it the privilege of attendance up
on thr pontifical court at the Vatican
and the title of count of the papal
court.
Of Itti lit fa lln.l,, fi rrtil.! vlnma fitirl
i ? i ... , . t - i..l
oisnops in America oniy len nave neen
favored with the dignity and honor thus
conferred upon Hishop Meerschaert.
The cablegram came through the
American apostolic delegate and was
sent in time for reception during the
jubilee celebration, but evidently bad I
been delayed by the war s censor and
was not forwarded until today.
AMEDICADS ESCAPE
S0DMAQI3E ATTACK
WASHINGTON, Sept. JO. Consul
Skinner at London cabled the state de
partment today that two American sail
ors, Bernard Sweeney and William
Woolen, both of New Jersey, were
saved from the British steamer Strath
tay, torpedoed by a submarine Septem
ber (i in the Knglish channel.
Two Arrested for
Robbing Panama
PANAMA, Sept. 20-An investiga
tion' of an embezzlement in the Panama
treasury has resulted in the arrest of
two persons. Gold to the amount of
$M0 is rumored to have be;n stolen to
gether with $5,000 in revenue stamps.
No Change in Local
Weather Foreseen
Local Forecast Fair tonight and
Thursday.
Slat Forecast fair tonight and
Thursday) cooler In northwtil portion.
K VH -Fiilr nri ennlr
ARKANSAS Fair and wnrmer.
Vs hhT ThXAH-Oi'imrallv flr, cooler
In lb tvinhanitl Thursday.
HOURLY
TBMPERATURK
10 p. m 70
11 P. m . 71
II midnight It
rSVfANT AOWfcA.
covfr none
WsOUNO -rtrrs r
TOPI CKT THfCTtl
VCT COrVrsoet A,
f 1 a. m
JT I a. m it
iTl a. m 66
"Zimmie" '?
' ' I 1 . m U
LITTLE HOPE OF
HALTING STRIKE
OF ALL UNIONS
New York Business Men's In
tervention Fails,
RIOTING GROWING WORSE
Companies Say Service Is Im
proving Steadily,
NT-.W YORK, Sept .11 - .-spite the
attempted intervention I a committee
of business men, there sremed to br
little prospei I lodav of averting a
iieneral strike in sympathy with thr
stteet railway empbocs, l abor lead
ers aver that the proposed general
walk out will involve about 7im,INHI
workers in all trades.
the attempt to operate surface cars
last night resulted in the worst riot
ing since the strike began, but off i
ci.ils of the transit companies say 'the
service in the day tune is improving
steadily.
Ttainj Bombarded.
Throughout the night elevated
trains, together with subway trains at
points where they rim on elevated
structures, were subjected to almost
ceaseless bombardments of bottles and
bricks, car windows being scattered
ami many passengers injured.
Today there were several attacks by
strikers and sympathizers on surface
cars and police reserves were repeat
edly called out.
Former Employe! Arrested.
Muring the forenoon attacks on stir
face cars continued intermittently. The
last twenty-lour hours have witnessed
the most extended disturbances of the
strike, police reports today showing
the arrests of twenty men declared lo
be former employes. Fifteen of these
are accused of felony in attacks on
trains and cars.
Jay-Walking Upon
Sidewalks Banned;
Watch Your Steps
Safety lane markings across street
intersectins will be stretched to the
buildings mi the corners and set apart
a sidewalk one. Within the space thus
marked loafing will he forbidden. This
is the new rule set down by Mayor
Ovrrholser and soon to become effec
tive. These pleasant mornings are spoiled
now for many persons downtown whfl
have business to see to and must hur
ry. At all the principal downtown cor
ners loafers block the sidewalks, caus.
ing much annoyance.
Men with apparently no cares and
no business stand in front of the Stale
National hank building, the American
National bank building, at the south
west corner of Main street and llroad
way and other busy corners, idly watch
ing street traffic and blocking side
walk traffic.
To aid in the movement of persons
who have something to do. Mayor
Overholscr is planning to frame jay
walking rules for sidewalks. Pedes
trians must hereafter keep to the right
as do autos in the street.
Blast in Powder
Plant Kills Five
HUNTINGTON, IV, Sept. 20 -Five
men were killed 'instantly and another
sustained fatal injuries when the air
dry house of the Mount Union plant of
the Aetna Kxplosives company was
wrecked near here early today. The
cause, officials said, probably will never
be known.
'UM7EIISITY' STATIOH
CllftnCES ITS DAME
"University" station, for years the
mecca of downtown-bound resident
along Classen boulevard, is no more.
A Hold-leaf sign today informed pas
sengers and passershy that henceforth
the handsome little depot will be known
as "Seventeenth s'rret station."
Internal Affairs
To Be Discussed
NKW LONDON, Conn., Sept. 20.
Further consideration of the various
plan suggested for the control of the
border figured today in the conference
of the Mexican-American joint com
mission. It was not exnerted anv plan
suggested would be adopted soon for
recommendation to the two governments
and it appeared probable that notwith
standing the relurtance of the Mex
ican members lo discuss the internal
affairs of their country, such iurstiun
as the American commissioners con
sider related to the general situation
will m taken up.
NEUTRAL
t ACAOS HAAKOM
LONDON, .sept. 211 king Haakon
of Norway, speaking at a dinner given
to the Swedish and Danish ministers of
state in Christiana, declared that the
Scandinavian nations are united in
their desire to remain neutral, accord
ing to a dispatch to the Kxehange Tel
egraph company. Thr dinner at which
the king spoke was given in connection
with a series of conferences which are
being held at the Norwegian capitnl
by the Scandinavian ministers of statr.
Electric Men
To Strike In
City Tonight
That members of the inside electri
cal workers' organisation would ktrike
tonight unless employ cm agreed to sign
a contract approved recently bv the
Oklahoma City Centra! Trades & Labor
council, was a rumor current today in
Oklahoma City.
When called at lieadnuarterj an
electrical worker denied that the mem
bers of his union had walked out. as
was reported, but staled that something
tangible in the tense situation be
tween the employer and employe might
be expected this evening.
The inside electrical workers are
said to be organised W percent in
Oklahoma City. The exact membership
of the union could not be ascertained.
Until some time ago the inside work
ers were affiliated with the outdoor
electricians.
An organiser has been in the citv
about three weeks. He is given as au
thority for thr statement that employers
have intimated repeatedly that they will
not accede to the demands of the men.
i QS; , I
Submarine War Only
Postponed, Liberal
German Leader Says
VON TIRPITZ FALSIFIED OVER
SUBMARINE ISSUE, IS CHARGE
BERLIN, Sept. 20. Admiral Ton Tirplti has been aroused by charges
brought against him by Prof. Valentine that he furnished incorrect
information to the relchstag during the submarine controversy. Prof.
Valentine is employed in the foreign office and the papers print letters
which passed between Admiral von Tlrplts and Chancellor von Bethmann
Hollweg in regard to the affair. Prom the letters it appears that in a
private conversation Prof. Valentine asserted that Admiral von Ttrpits
had misled the reichstsg in regard to the number of available submarines
and the possibility of a submarine campaign. The admiral demanded that
the chancellor discipline Prof. Valentine. '
I1F.RLIN, Sept. 20.(Vis London. de
layed ) Major F.rnest Bassermann,
leader of the national liberal party in
a keynote speech drlivered on Monday
before his constituents in the Sasr
grucken district, declared tint the sub
marine campaign has been postponed
and not abandoned
Shared By Otheis.
Bassermann has advocated the widest
possible use of both submarines and
Zeppelins and the most ruthless meth
ods of warfare He asserted that his
views were shared by Admiral von Tir
oiti. Admiral von Koester, Prince von
Iluelow and Count Zeppelin. The sen
timent was heartily applauded,
Greek Ultimatum to
Germany and Bulgaria
Asks Captives' Release
Commandant at Juarez Calls
Athens Believed to Have Set Time Limit Rumor False,
of Tonight on Answer to Demand for juarez line in DANGER
Immediate Return of Prisoners Cap-irilristonSa;scmunications
tured When Seaport Was Occupied.! May Be Cut Already,
ATlir.N'S, Sept. !- Via London, Sept Jn -Delayed (-There is reason'
to believe that the '.reek government has sent an ultimatum to (,ennany and)
liulgaria expiring Wednesday night demanding the immediate return of the ,
soldiers takeji prisoner at Kavala
When the dreck seaport of Kavala was rntcicd by German anil Bulgarian
troops, the city was garrisoned by llie Fourth I, reek army corps According to
an official statement issued fcy l'.erlin. the entire corps, consisting of JlJ.tx 1 men,
asked the German commander lor food and shelter and protection against the
entente forces llie statement said that to prevent any brrach of neutrality
the Greek soldiers would be transported to Germany, to lie kept there as guests
of the nation.
The German account of the affair differs radically from that given out at
the allied capitals and as understood at. Alliens; The number of soldiers trans
ported to Germany, according to these versions wa-les than 1 .IX Hi. one account
placing the total at seventy officer aul WKI men.,.1 be remainder of the garrison
is variously said to have been transported to Sabiiliki by the French authorities
and to be encamped on the island of Thasos. A recent dispatch from Athens
reported the arrival of some members id the Kavala garrison in the 'Greek
capital, but no numbers were given.
'I he incident caused a profound sensation in Greece ami the action of the
Germans was bitterly denounced by the pro-ally party.
LONDON', Sept. 2(1 Renter's Telegram company says it learns officially
that the Greek government has submitted a very urgent note to Germany re
garding the removal to Germany of Greek troops from Kavala and demanding
that they be released.
Stubborn Battles in Dobruija Fluctuate
While Russo-Rumanians Bring up Aid
LONDON. Sfpt. 20. Stubborn and
fluchtatinn ball it in going on in the
province of Dobrudja between Kusso
Kumanian force and German and Bul
garian troops, says today's German of
ficial statement. The Russians and Ru
manian have hastily brought up rein
forcements, the statement adds, and are
defending their positions with great
stubbornness.
Rumanian Announce Success.
The official report issued today by
the Rumanian war office announces that
the Rumanians have gained a success
against the German and Bulgarian
troops in the province of Dobrudia. The
fighting, it says, was in the region of
F.nigea, nineteen miles south of the
Constauia-Tiernavoda railway.
Rumanian forces which invaded
Transylvania through the Srurduk pass
of the Transvlavian Alps, have been
i defeated and driven hatk over the
pass, the war office announced today.
Turkish troops which appear to have
played an important part in stiffening
the lines of the Teutonic allies in the
east, have been successful in the re
rent fighting in Galicia. Constantinople
announces today. A forty-eight boil'
battle with superior Russian forces re
sulted in the Turks completely main
taining their position.
In Macedonia the trend of the cam
paign appears to favor the entente arm
ies. The Serbians are reported in a
continued advance along the western
end of the line, driving the remain
ing Bulgarians out of Fiorina and rap-
Referring to the United States, Major
Bassertnann warped his hearers against
trusting for any permanent effect upon
American sympathy from England's
blacklist policy and the achievement of
the Deutscblsnd and other commercial
submarines. He warned them also not
to hope that the present American pro
tests to F.ngland would have any great
er effect than their predecessors.
Peace Still Uncertain.
No prospects of peace were held out
by the speaW lie told his hearers
(hat it would be a delusion to believe
that there was any immediate prospect
of an end to the war.
Hiring the highest peak in the Kai-makcal-in
range, north of Lake Ostrovo.
Sofia, however, denies the surce
claimed for the Serbians in the Kai
makcalan region.
German Gain Fails.
Paris sends news of a German at
tack at Hill 7d. north of the river,
which tint French repelled, ejecting such
Germans 'as sncceedrd in .gaining a
foothold in advanced positions.
In a hand grenade attack on the
British troops near ITers, on the Somtne
front, the Germans yesterday gained
some success, says the official state
ment issued in Berlin today hy the
German army head'imrlers. In the Ver
dun sector the Germans drove the
French out of a small trench on the
western slope of Dead Man Hill.
British troops south of Arras yes
terday captured JKt yards of German
trenches, says the official statement
issued today hy British army head
quarters. BUYERS BEFUSE TO
TAKE IIC3S; FORCIDG
conn RECORD PRICES
I I ack-rs buyers at the Oklahoma City
stockyards stood rrsolulely today for
a material reduction in the cost of live
pork and the result was that up to
noun not a hog had been sold, although
there was a healthy crop of 4,211) pork
ets waiting for distribution.
Indications were that salesmen would
be forcd to terms and the cost of pork
would be reduced this afternixvn 10 to
IS rents
As high as $10l a hundred was
paid for pork at the local market yes
terday, and the price for the last mouth
has been of record sir?.
A Real Sltory
DID you read that
wonderful story
from Frederick Pal
mer on the Inteat I?ritinh
success in the battle on
the Somme in the Times
last evening?
Nothinj? more Rrippini?
on the war has been writ
ten than Palmer's narra
tives. Palmer is the As
sociated Press corre
spondent. He's the best
reporter in the world t
He's the only American
newspaper man with the
tallies on the Somme firing
line! Think of thatl
His stories appear regu
larly in the Times and in
no other evening newspa
per in this territory.
If you're not reading
Palmer, you're
BtkbdttheTfcnie
8
1 1
BANDIT GANG IN
ATTACK AT NIGHT
OCCUPIES CITY
I I. PASO. Tex-as. Sept. 2n-Rumorf
vvre current here today that Chihuahua -City
was raptured by Villa in a second
attack last night. Genrral Francisco .
Gonalrs. commandant at Juarez, and
(. onsul Garcia declared the reports
were without foundation.
According to reports the attack was)
preceded by mutiny of a large part ol
the garrison. The bandits wrre said to)
occupy the municipal and federal ptU
aces, the penitentiary and two fortified
hills.
Consul Garcia and General Gonzales
maintained, although wire communica
tion had been hampered, messages re
eiyed early todty indicated ipnet in
Chihuahua City.
Line to Border
May Be in Danger
SAN ANTONIO. Texas, Sept 20.--That
Francisco Villa soon will cut th
Carranra line of communication be
tween Chihuahua City and Juarez, ii ht
has not already done so, was suggested
by Major General Funston today after
!: had read a report on Villa's Chi
huahfta engagement received from
Brigadier General Bell at El Paso.
tiIm . r-i
Stories gathered by General Bell J
from persons reaching El Paso froml
the interior indicate that Oneral Tri k
vinos forces were driven out of ChU
huahua City in Villa's Saturday attack,
and that they took station on a largt
hill . outside the city from necessity
and rot from choice, as prrvious re
ports said. From this hill they succeed
ed, hy the use of artillery, in dislodging
the Villistas.
Quite a Holiday.
General Funston refused to give out
all details of the Bill report for pub
lication, hut he said that it confirmed,,
previous accounts of the battle and in
dicated even more serious conditions
than were admitted by the Carranistas.
"It sr-ms that they had quite a holi
day down there." said the general, i
Garrisons Must Look Out
Genera! Bell's report said that Vil
la's force last Saturday was esti
mated at from 5X) lo 1.7(H) men. General
Funston hrli;ves that this force has
grown since the Chihuahua battle, Ht
said that in this case the logical stes)
for Villa to take would he the severing
of the line of communications betweee)
Chihuahua and Juarer.. This would giva
him control of the Mexico Northwest
ern railroad, ami, the genrral added
"the garrisons to the north would hat
to lo.ik out."
GERMANS KILLED
WHILE MOURNING
sor.ir.iE losses
Hussars Charge Chemnitz
Thi our, Slaying Forty,
LONDON. Sept, .-Serious rioting 1
in which many lives were lost, took
place at Chemuili Saturday afternoon,
according to a Central News dispatch
from The Hague The dispatch says
thr rioting started when the news ar
rived of the heavy losses of ChemniU
workmen in the Somme battle. Crowds
j assembled on the street tMlMngCThe
inieruaiioiiaie. i ney mused to ais
perse and were charged hy Hussars,
rive Hussars ere killed aud forty
wounded and about forty civilians wera
killed and JIKI armed with revolvsea) ,
arrested.
U. S. Cattlemen Buy
Hawaiian Island
SAN FRANCISCO, Sept. 20-TU '
island of Lanai of the Hawaiian JTotns,' '
has been purchased by United States
Senator Key I'ittman of Nevsda S-RSJ '
a group, of wealthy Nevada cattlemen, ,
sccordirf' to H. I. Lorentien, who SW
rived here today from Honolulu. .
The deal, which Lortntsen hM h .
negotiated, involved more than $1T ;;
(KK). He gave no details, bat Htf I -,
was on his way to Nevada aa f
. . , - f , ..! . -A
cent lur uaiu-wiauow ee
1
