VOL. X.XI MiNS C, WY S , 16.
VOL. XXVIII. MAN~NING, S. C., WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 20, 1916.
BMITISH HAVE MADE
NOTABLE_ADVANCE
SCORED LARGE SUCCESSES SINCE
SOMME ATTACK STARTED IN
JULY.
SMASH THE GERMAN LINE
Three Towns, Two Woods, High
Ground Between Combles and Po
aieres.-Bapaume Road Have Been
Taken.-Over 2,300 Prisoners.
London. - Smashing the German
line on a front of six miles north of
the Somme in France, the British
forces have made probably the most
notable advance since the Anglo
French offensive began July 1.
Three towns, two woods and the
possession of nearly all the high
ground between Combles and the Poz
leres-Bapaume Road fell to the Brit
ish. Not only did the Germans lose
these points but the British drive im
perils the Combles and Thiepval po
aitions on either end of the British
front. The gaining of the high ground
north of Commbles gives the British
command of the approaches to Bap
aume.
The advance on the northern end of
the front was for a distance of two
miles. Courcellette, east of Thieval,
and north of the Poziere-Bapaume
Road, and Martinpuich. south of the
road, fell into the hands of General
Haig's men. Further south they took
Fiers, and the High wood, making
secure their possession of Ginchy. The
Bouleaux woods, north of Combles,
also was lost to the Germans.
The Germans under Crown Prince
Rupprecht of Bavaria, fought stub
bornly to hold their ground, and the
fighting was severe all along the line.
More than 2,300 prisoners were taken
by the British.
Aiding the Briltsh in the encircle
ment of Combles the French have ta
ken additional trenches north of Le
Prez farm. South of the river three
German trenches near Berny-on-San
terre were taken by the French who
also captured 200 prisoners. Berlin
elaims the repulse of British attacks
southeast of Theipval and of French
efforts between Rancourt and the
Somme. The official statement ad
mits the loss of Le Priez farm west of
Rancourt.
WASHINGTON UNCERTAIN HOW
U. S. EXPORTS WILL SUFFER.
Steps Have Already Been Taken to
Secure Information on Matter.
Washington.-In the absenee of in
formation detailing what commodities
are affected by the new British re
strictions on American trade with
Holland and the Scandinavian coun
fries officials here are uncertain just
how heavily American exporters will
suffer. Steps to secure this informsa
tion already had been taken and It~
'was indicated that should any sweep- I
ing extension of restrictive measures
be revealed it would be regarded as
a serious development in the contro
versy over the legality of allied block-!
ade methods. No report on the new
order has come through official chan
nels but a news dispatch regarding it
were called immediately to the atten
tion of the British embassy by State
Department officials with informal in
quiries as to the purpose- and scope
of the proposal. It was said asimilar
investigation would be made through
the American embassy at London.
PR1NCE WILLIAM OF HESSE
HAS BEEN SLAN IN BATTLE.
Berlin, via London.-Prince Fred
erick Wiliam of Hesse hat been kill
ed at Car Orman, it was officially
announced by the War Office in Its
report on operations on the Balkan
front. It is added that 28,000 prison
ers were taken in the conquest of the
Rumanian fortress of Turtukai. Con
cerning the fighting on the Macedon
Ion~- front the statement tells of the
repulse of the Entente attacks on the
Moglenica sector and east of the Var
dar.
.U. S. GUN EXPORTS ASK
LARGER TEST GROUND.
Washington.-Enlargement of the
government reservation at Indian
Head, Md., where the navy's big guns
are tested, is being .urged by ordin
ance officials who say the largest
types now benig made cannot be tried
out on the present proving grounds
without risking destruction of life and
property nearby. An official of high
rank cited a recent experience during
the firing tests of a sixteen-inch rtfle.
There has been a small homeward
movement of troops anl along the bor
der and at the same time more troops
have been reaching the border from
state mobIl~zatIon camps. Most of
those now coming In are encamping in
the El Paso district. The latest ar
- rivals are from Ohio and Kentucky
*and those from North Carolina, Geor
gia and Florida are expected. Troops
from Ilinois, Indiana, Minnesota, Kan
sas and other states stationed in the
-Brownsville and San Antonio districts
have been ordered home. None in the
El Paso district have yet been sent
'back.
I4EXICAN INDEPENDENCE
TO BE OBSERVED TODAY.
Mexican City.-The hundre.1 and
sixteenth anniversary of the procla
mation of Mexican independecIe by
Hidalgo at Dolores in 1810 wil' be ob
served with elaborate ceremonies
throughout the republic In the capi
tal, where nearly every buaiding Is
aflutter with flags and decorated with
the national colors, military and civil
organizations will parade through
glower-Strewn streets. Bands will play
trouhoult the 4$y.
TAKE FOUR MILES
GERMAN TRENCHES
ALLIES CONTINUE THEIR OFFEN- 8
SIVE NORTH AND SOUTH OF
SOMME RIVER IN FRANCE.
FRENCH GET 700 PRISONERS I
Entante Allies Straighten Lines and
Obliterate Saw-Tooth Salients Which
Marked Entire Front Along Somme.
-Grandcourt is Being Bombarded.
German positions exceeding four
miles in length were captured Satur- E
day night and Sunday by the British
and French armies in the continua- t
tion of their offensive north and south t
of the Somme river in France. In ad- n
dition quantities of war material and d
a large number of prisoners fell into t
the hands of the Entente Allies-700 f
prisoners being taken by the French t
alone. Heavy counter-attacks against c
the British were repulsed with heavy t
losses to the Germans, according to F
London. C
Near Thiepval the British took a
fortified position over a front of a S
mile known as "the Danube trench,"
near Courcelette an advance of about
1,000 yards was made and finally the i
strongly defended positions at the i
Mouquet farm, over which there had 1
been numerous hard-fought battles
for several weeks, fell into their
hands.
The advance of the British appa
rently straightens out the salient that
had projected into their lines between
Thiepval and Courcelette and brings
their front here to within a sent mile
of 'Grandcourt and the Albert-Bapaume
railway. - Grandceurt is now being
bombarded by the British. The suc
cess of the French seemingly obliter
t
ates another of the many saw-tooth
salients which mark the entire front
of the Somme and is another move
of the right flank of the Entente to
ward the pocketing of Jeronne.
VILLA'S TROOPS ROUTED
WITH LOSS OF 600 MEN
Thousand Followers of Bandit Attack
Town of Chihuahua--All Prisoners
Put to Death.
Mexico City.-General Obregon, min
ister of war, announces that a thous
and followers of Francisco Villa who
attacked the town of Chihuahua were
routed with a loss of six hundred men
killed and many captured. After the
battle General Treveino's troops were
able to take part in the regular Inde
pendence parade at 11 o'clock. Dur
ing the fighting General Trevino was
slightly wounded in the shoulder.
Aided by some of the townspeople
Villa forces attacked and took the
penitentiary and the municipal and
Federal palaces. General Trevino
gathered his troops, placed his artil
lery, recaptured the public buildings
and completely defeated the attack
ers in the early morning fight.
126 MERCHANT SHIPS
PREY OF SUBS. IN MONTH.
Berlin, via Sayvlle.-"D~urng Aug
nt," says an official admiralty state
ment Issued, "126 hostile merchant1
ships, totalling 170,679 tons gross,
were destroyed by submarines of the
Central Powers or by mines; and 35
neutral merebant ships, totalling 38,
568 tons., carrying contraband of war
to enemies."
MRS HOWE'S DEATH
DUE TO PERITONITIS.
New London, Conn.-Mrs. Anne E.
Howe, only sister of President Wilson,
died in a local hotel. Mrs. Howe had
been extremely Ill for about a week
with peritonitis and the end had been
expected at any moment for two days.
THREE BRiTISH STEAMERS
SUNK BY SUBMARINE.
Marseilles, France. - The British
steamers Ilangrose, Butetown and
Swedish Prince have been sunk by
submarines. The crews of the vessels
were saved ind arrived here.
FIVE KILLED IN AUTO
CRASH NEAR NEW YORK..
New York.-Five persons were kill
ed, two probably fatally injured and
four others less seriously hurt Sunday
merning, when an automobile in
which the ywere riding crashed
through a guard rail on a bridge
across the Harlem River. The five
who lost their lives were hurled from
the bridge to the roadway 25 feet beb
low, while the others were crushed
under the wreckage of the car.
It has been definitely decided to hold
the Chester county fair on October
17, 18, 19 and 20.I
The property shortage of the Nation
al Guard of South Carolina, amounting
to over $30,000, has been erased, ac
cording to a letter received by Gov.
Manning from A. L. Mills, chief of the
'militia bureau, United States war de
paprtment.
Florence will have its own horse
show this fall, as It used to have sev
eral years ago. The show this year is
-being promoted by T. W. Jones and
B. W. Covingtonl, two enterprising
horse dealers.
RUSSIANS, CLOSING IN,
TAKE 3,000 TEUTONS.
Petrograd.Russian troops have re
umed their closing-ia movement on
the Galician town of H~alicz, southeast
of Lemberg on the Dnister. The War
Office announcesd that the Teutons
have been dislodged from positions
south of Brzezany, on the Zlota lipa.
northeast of Halicz, and that the Rus
sians were attacking along the Pod
vysoke-Halics Railway line whe"*.
m ore than 3,000 Germans were taken
ri soner.
:IND TROUBLE
WITH MEXICANS
OUTH CAROLINIAN DISCOVERS
REVOLUTIONS REASON-PEP
PER IS CAUSE.
lEWS FROM BORDER CAMP
Weekly Letter, Prepared Especially
For Our Readers, From the South
Carolina Guardsmen Encamped at
Fort Bliss, Texas.
In Camp with the South Carolina
rigade, in the El Paso Patrol District.
"I just discovered the trouble with
ie Mexicans and can understand why
ey 'revolute' so much and so unani
iously," remarked a South Carolinian
uring one of the daily discussions of
ie troubles of our neighbor. "Well,
)r goodness sake, tell us," chorused
lie ones who were talking with him
rhen he made ,the startling declara
ion. "It's because they eat so much
epper," said the Columbus of the
amp, and while every one laughed at
Lim, subsequent observations have
hown that his opinion is at least
orth considering.
If you should happen to cross the
uternational bridge, about the only
mpressive part of wnich structure is
ts imposing name, and get by the
Lmerican soldiers and custom officials
.nd run the gauntlet of the Mexican
raves and customs collector on the
ther end, get in Juarez and visit
heir marketing place you would be
trongly inclined to come to the same
onclusion as that of the South Caro
inian, that the trouble with Mexico
s too much pepper.
Pepper is the only thing which
bounds in greater amount in Mexico
han flies. Just stroll through the
aarket and when you look over the
oples, fruits, watermelons, sand
riches and other things which they
Lave for sale you will be impressed
irst by the swarms of flies which cov
r everything and everybody and next
ou will remark to your companion
,u have never seen so much pepper.
Dverybody has It for sale and no stand
s complete without it. it is the only
hing which must be universally de
anded on every Mexican table and
Lt every Mexican meal.
Naturally with so much pepper in
heir system the Mexicans are a fight
ng people. They prefer to fight for
igners but when they are not haedy
hey fight one another. They must
ght and they have fought so much
hat their finest young men have been
tilled and, to judge from what one
ees in Juarez,' they have only the
od men and boys left but still they
Ight. It is presumed that when the
>d men and ,oys have been wiped out
he fighting will pass to the women but
Ls long as they stick to pepper they
il fight and there is no indication
hat pepper is waning as a popular part
f every meal.
It takes one who sees beyond the
iurface and can look beneath the
larkened skin of the Mexicans to rea
ion out their fighting proclivities and
;o lay it on the pepper, for certainly
surface indications are all against this
roposition. This was impressed on
n~ during a trip I made into Juarez
he othr day.
To get into Mexico you have to
ross the international bridge across
he Rio Grande, the bridge patrolled
mn the American end by soldiers of
Ci'ncle Sam and on the Miexican side
> soldiers of that nation.
No soldierss are, of course, allowed
tcross the line and only citizens in
tizens' attire can get across the
>ridge. In approaching the interna
ional bridge from the American side
rou are first examined by an Amern
an soldier. a member of the de
ahment which is kept constantly on
uard here. The bridge is patrolled
bout onethird of the distance from
he Ameriin side by American so]
hlers and two-thirds across on the
M!exican side a Mexican soldier paces
2p and down, day and night. After the
American soldier finishes his examina
don you undergo inspection by an
American customs offIcial to make
certain that you are not smuggling
inything across and carrying in some
thing that you have no business to
carry. After running the gauntlet of
the Americans you get to the Mexican
and where the soldier gives you the
'ce over" and then you undergo ex
amination by the Mexican customs of
lccials. Th first personification of au
thority, however, is the Mexican sol
dier and there you get first hand idea
yf the fighting arm of the de facto gov
was not impressive in appearance.
This particular representative of
the military department of Mexico
He was young In years but his clothes
or uniform hung loosely about him.
He, like all the Mexican fighters, ear
ries his cartridges in a belt slung
around his shoulders just as one would
carry a kodak, and his rifle was in a
position of half way "order arms." His
whole appearance was lifeless and
hpeless and he looked as if his last
square meal was several months ago.
He was typical of the soldiers of our
neighbor seen on the streets of Juarez
for there is every evidence that they
are half feed and half clothed. 'They
also ppear to be either old men or
young boys and i~t is evident that
the revolutions which have swept that
troubled country for the past five
years have carried away the flower of
the nation.
Passing the sentry the customs offi
cias gave our party only a cursory
examination and then passed us on
ward with a wave of his hand and
some greeting in Spanish.
In crossing the river we saw scores
of exican men, women and children
In bathing and some on the river bank
disobing. A great many had finished
that job and stood looking around se
renely indifferent that they were cloth
ed - nl In, mlesn garhL and standinlj
in the broad light of day. Some of
them had "September Morn" outclass
ed. However, as r' -- companion was
a married man we did not tarry here
but moved on the centre of the town.
The street was filled with mud but
the sidewalks were paved. The build
ings are for the most part one story
mud brick structures, the typical Mex
ican material. Several times we pass
ed Mexican soldiers in twos and threes
and while they glanced at us closely
no one accosted any of the party. We
came to the plaza, and benches filled
wtih men, women and children, and
others strolling through the paths.
Only two well dressed people were
seen and these were Mexican girls.
They both were as smart and neat In
appearance as awy young American
lady who keeps up with the latest
fashions. The others were sitting
around and idling. Nobody seemed
to be working.
Close by the plaza is the market
place and this is well worth a visit.
In general the market resembles that
of Market street in Charleston or the
one which formerly stood on Assembly
street in Columbia. The various stands
-only there 'were very few stands,
most of those having anything to sell
just piling it in a corner on the floor
were filled with apples, and the other
products grown in this country, and
pepper. Everybody sold pepper and
no wonder the Mexicans are a vola
tile people. If they eat as much pep
per as evidently is the case from the
great amount everybody has to sell
they must be continually hot under
the collar and sparring for a fight.
Father, mother, big brother and big
sister and all the little folk were out
to wait on prospective customers. As
these were scarce the family sat
around on the floor and idled away
the time, dozing to the music made
by the swarms of flies which feasted
on the products of the markets while
the customers were absent.
On our return we passed the garri
son where the Carranza soldiers are
quartered when not on duty. The
buildings look like a big prison wih
all the doors and windows closed and
one lanky young man with a gun long
er than he was tall and a belt full
of cartridges strung around his shoul
ders was pacing back and forth in
front of the prison like structure. I
was told that the Mexican soldiers
when off duty are deprived of their
gun and cartridges and locked up for
if they are let loose they are likely to
decamp. When it comes time for them
to go on guard they are given their
guns and ammunition and sent out in
charge of a sergeant or corporal to
their post of duty.
The homes of the Mexicans are for
the most part in keeping with the
squalor like appearance of the town.
Once in a while you come across a
dwelling of the better sort and you
will see vines climbing over the front
entrance and flowers blooming in the
yard. From several of the houses we
heard the sound of music and passed
two or three Mexican string bands.
They are a musical people and while
away many an hour picking their mu
sical instruments.
The whole appearance of Juarez is
that of a place where business is dead
and the people are having a hard time
getting enough to eat. Nobody was
at work and the people, Wihile out in
large numbers, were standing or sit
ting around looking as if they were
waitin gfor something to happen.
There are a great many beggars on
the streets and about the market and
plaza and they never fail to ask for
something. One time it will be a lit.
tie girl and the next time an old
woman with a shawl covering her
head. They are very persistent and
often become very ugly If not given
something..
Such is Juarez in appearance, and
Ill kept, the people l'ooking hopeless,
helpless and ambitionless and kept In
fighting mood by the large amount of
pepper which serves as a stimulant.
In the absence of nutritous food.
GOERNOR MANNING
HAS 5,000_MAJORITYT
DEFEATS COLE L. BLEASE IN SEC
OND RACE IN 27 OUT OF 45
COUNTIES.
DOMINICK DEFEATS AIKEN
Fred H. Dominick Named Congress
man From 3d District.-Cansler
Nominated R. R. Commissioner.
Columbia. - Dealing a smashing
,blow to Bleasism Democrats of South
Carina nominated Richard Irvine
Manning for governor over Cole L.
Blease. With 137,243 votes accounted
for Manning received 70,986 and
Blease, G66,257. The re-election of Mr.
Manning has -been conceded and a
contest is not likely.
James Cansler of Tirzah in York
county was inominated for railroad
commissioner over Albert S. Fant of
Anderson. Cansler received 75.281I
votes to 53.024 for Fant. Cansler of
Tirzah has been running for the place
on the railroad board for years and
The vote amng the National Guard
on the border was as follows: Man
ning, 493; Blease, 511; Cansler, 485,
and Fant 524.
The returns show that Governor
Manning carried 27 out of the 45 coun
ties in the state. Governor Manning
carried Bamberg, Barnwell, Beaufort,
Ber ley, Calhoun, Chester, Colleton,
Chesterfield, Darlington, Dillon. Dor
hester, Edgefield, Fairfield, Florence.
Greenville, Greenwood, Hampton, Jas
er. Kershaw, Lancaster, Lexington.:
M arion. Marlboro, McCormick. Or-'
angeburg, Sumter and Williamsburg.
Mr. Blease carried: Abbeville, Aiken.,
Anderson. Charleston. Cherokee, Clar
edon Georgetown, Horry, Laurens,
ee. Newberry, Oconee, Pickens,.
Richland, Saluda, Spartanburg, Union
1 andYrk.
:.. .";:s"-,. mil":
-M '
'"{5. '' " : "}" f"{"ti" 'r y .Y. x+ r rlY .:T ."ky:r,,y+i'
}: n:: "Yr 1, :! '!" ;: J"^
:"nv. r r vjrr
r. "l
i . ,.
C !1
.Y. Y MX-Y
'"3. -,-":J:""I:. 7"' ':{1": ":{" . / Y:'. "(f," 1}"'}":""'J'}?"' :{Y : !: f;: ,}: /,.: 1'. r; Jam'
':{hr Y: '.".: ":I }!',I J".tiY.A ::: " /,f r' \: ".Y.f" , ':
.I.. C. ' "r rr. f.f r.". n .t rl. J.}".I. !1'}X. 1...?.l r:, /. {+ '4.
:"X". tiy,:; .: .r } ,r, t "."rr; {.. f.:"; {: :: 'J.: }." .3f '+ +f:. ?iy '.
':jn,{.; ..}:" y}{ '.} :' '+rr {:{nY :{ v,.: ?f.:. i:': ;'?y.," . }i ","r.""}. ".:{".v::.v; f. ;t; f..
4i. yr: :}' ,:%'r'. 'v "} : "f ^r yky; :n :";{.,w. .iG" ".{'"" "{{f+i}.':::r:}f".}':{":"}.r: :".; ,{.v., 1:,}"{". :. 7" 1: ; :,
'+ "! Y" r ., {gin i:" i.; } " ?"i}:{"}:"::!iC;'r,? "yr,:":":!k~.;:: i.}; ,r_
":i :':v. ''$SG. iGf,,yr:f v,.": rr:".",vfi:.:.. .f .... - ,,, ..
:v +i:::: " " f r7}}/? 4 xy 1.;.;.".w }; :: L'":"}}:: y: "{:".}:.}} .,v ":} -4 . ..a .l
:.. : r ...; :tilr iC/ %}"{fl:. J w C . A: ".. /.t {.N,.": S}.+".v. r.:r ... f ''^'"'
..: :"iii::?;:Y^' f r r r .4 r t rf r r {.;{.ti Y}'+ - ".C.
" " }:"ii ii "{: }::;r: " . ....... ....... .. ,: - . "::... % .tea
:r xr:. ;r: $:{r7 f r y r r " ",vC:"{?'
---- - ---------------
----- --------
-- - ----------
copyr,_h! Han Schaffner
Autumn Stares You M the --lace.
" .yam yhL.
r " w"S
ti S Z J'tI"
e c o s ou*
XYOU'RE going to buy new things to wear. pretty
soon. If you knoW what's best for you, you're
going to buy them here. We have everything ready
for you; we've made careful preparation for supply
ing just the sort of things you want.
Hart Schaffner& Marx clothes
The new fall models in these famous suits and over
coats are especially good; the new Varsity Fifty
Fives and Varsity Six Hundreds. We have some very
choice and exclusive patterns that you'll ,see no
where else. We want the young men particularly to
see the new ideas created for them; we've got the
pick of them for you.
Hats New and Different.
This season brings changes in derbies and soft hats;
the, newest authentic styles are here at prices to
meet every purse, Goodbye to the old straw. $3.50,
$4, $5, $6.
Fall Colorings in Shirts.
Rich browns and tans,, deep purples and greens are
prevalent shades in fall shirts; here is a wonderful
showing, of interest to every man. Great values at
these prices.
Pajamas, Sweaters, Underwear, Scarfs;
E3verything a Well Dressed Man Needs.
Phon 166 - -- rSUMT ER, S. C
