1
&
LUME XXXVII.
UNIVERSITY COURSE
AGAIN FOR NEW ULM
"^EURRENT NEWS CLUB PREPARES
ENTERTAINMENT FOR THE
WINTER MONTHS.
NOTABLE ARTISTS WILL APPEAR
HERE IN CONCERT AND
LECTURE.
So successful were the members of the
Current News Club last year in carrying
out the University Lyceum Course that
they have again entered upon arrange
ments for this season's course. The
numbers will be given at the High School
Assembly Room again as it was found
that the room could be comfortably
filled and the expense of the course is
considerably lessened by having free rent.
The first of the course will come October
\16th and the last January 30th. There
will be four entertainments in all, two
of them being musical, one lecture and
one dramatic evening.
First on the list will be the Meyer-Ten
Broeck Recital. The date is the 16th
of next month. Marie Ten Broeck is a
most gifted pianist. She commenced her
piano studies when a child, under the well
known pedagogue, Victor Heinze. At
the early age of sixteen, she appeared as
a highly praised concert artist in America.
^She then went to Europe and finished her
musical education with a course of study
under Godowski in Berlin. Since then
she has been concertizing and teaching in
this country, and has had a most enthu
siastic reception wherever she has ap
peared.
The violinist, Otto Meyer is well known
to the concert goers of America and
Europe. When a student in Prague un
der Professor Sevick, (Kubelik's teacher),
so pleased the great master, that he made
him his assistant in Berlin. After two
successful years as a teacher, Mr. Meyer
made concert tours through Bohemia,
France, Belgium, England and Germany,
spending his summers with the great
Belgian master, Ysaye, under whom he
prepared his Repertoires. Mr. Meyer's
European successes were followed by an
engagement for a two years' concert tour
of America with Mane Ten Broeck under
the management of Haensel & Jones,
cf Nev York, since which time he has
been concertizing and teaching in this
ycountry.
Second on the list comes the concert
by the Faust Opera Singers. There are
five members of the company, Mildred
Smith, contralto, Christian Mathisen.
tenor, Joel Mossberg, baritone and
Martha Mork, soprano, and Erma
Rounds, Pianist. All of them have been
engaged for years in public concert work
in the large musical centers of the world
The first part of the program is given over
to quartettes and solos from the best in
oratorio and secular music. Mr. Christian
Mathisen, tenor, sings Norwegian folk
songs in native costume, and for the
quartette a group of our own familiar
folk songs are arranged, songs which have
a new appeal when presented by these
artists.
The latter part of the program is de
voted to the opera Faust, with the story
of the opera presented in narrative form.
An interesting insight into the care
with which the Faust Opera Singers
*v prepare their programs is given by the
fact that ten weeks' rehearsals precede
each season's concert appearances. Of
equal importance is the fact that the
Faust Opera Singers were organized by
Mr. Louis O. Runner, of Chicago. Their
appearance in any concert series is certain
to be an epoch in the musical life of the
community.
Next will come the Bigelow lecture
December 20th. Hon. Herbert S. Bige
low, the most notable of the speakers
who were here during University Week
last summer, is a leader of radical
thought. The man is best described in
the words of Wm. Marion Reedy, editor
*-^^of Reedy's Mirror, (St. Louis).
"This man Bigelow, who leads the
radical forces, is a believer in the transla
tion of Christianity into democracy. He
hasn't the ministerial mind, incapable of
comprehending issues beyond liquor or
city vice. He sees the cause of de
bauchery and vice in poverty and he
knows the cause can be abolished. He
understands that the world is not re
formed by preaching, but only by getting
into the fighting in practical politics for
better living conditions and better govern
ment conditions. He believes in "speed
ing up" the people and in getting what
good he can out of politicians and sinner?
to help him to his ends. He studied
practical politics with Tom L. Johnson,
no tyro at the game, and he won a
majority of the constitutional convention
by understandings ami alliances which
shocked the 'unco guid.' The hostile
Cincinnati Enquirer conceded the man's
ability and charm of power, and I my
self heard him make one of the three or
four great speeches I have heard in my
life. It is not his doing that he is be
coming a celebrity, for he is a man of
genuine modesty. His growing fame is
incidental to his work, and into that work
he has put a soul strenuous."
"I have heard him twice, and I never
was more charmed, even by Beecher or
by Ingersoll. There's a splendid ana
tomy of thought under the fair flesh of
his oratory and his oratory never be
comes mere verbal inflation. He sticks
to his text and his argument with the
tenacity of a Lloyd-George."
Last but not least, and probably of
more general interest than any of the
other numbers will be the University
Players. These young men and women
are trained in only what is conceded to
be the best in drama. Their repertory
includes selections from Shakespeare,
Ibsen, Sudermann and Singe and ranges
from tragedy to farce. A company of
these young people played here last June
and were very much enjoyed and it is
needless to say more of them until the
time comes for their appearance here
January 30th.
Members of the Current News Club
are now selling season tickets for the
course and those who buy now will be
sure of being ready for each number as
it comes and will also find that they are
the more likely to go and be benefited
by the offerings than if they allow
personal inclination at the moment to
decide weather to go or not.
LUTHERANS DEDICATE
CHURCH EDIFICE.
NEW
Over 2000 people were assembled at
Fairfax Sunday for the purpose of as
sisting St. John's Lutheran church of that
city to celebrate its 25th anniversary
and also to give the neighboring congre
gations an opportunity to rejoice with
the Fairfax congregation in the com
pletion of its beautiful new church which
was formally dedicated last spring when
the weather conditions prevented the
attendance of those from a distance.
There were large delegations from Wel
lington, Ridgely, Gibbon, Moltke, Eden
and New Ulm. New Ulm alone furnished
a contingent of 60 persons, 27 of whom
constituted the male choir of the local
church under|the leadership of Prof. Ad.
Reim.
During the morning service Rev.
Boettger of Gibbon presided at the altar
and Rev. Plocher of St. Paul delivered
the principal sermon. Rev. Im. F.
Albrecht, pastor of the church read the
history of the congregation, relating how
it was founded by Rev. Hilbert 25 years
ago and how it had grown in numbers and
in the good work it is doing. In the
afternoon Rev. Sells of Moltke presided
at the altar and Rev. F. Koehler of
Nicollet preached the sermon. Rev.
Plocher again occupied the pulpit in the
evening and delivered an English sermon.
The most pathetic and touching sight
was when the first pastor of the church,
Rev. Hilbert of Mankato, aged 85 years
and now completely blind, was led to the
altar and spoke words of cheer to his
former congregation. The New Ulm
male choir rendered several songs in the
morning and again in the afternoon.
The other music for the celebration was
furnished by a mixed choir and orchestra
from Fairfax. Rev. Im. Albrecht di
rected the singing and Teacher Boerneke
presided at the pipe organ and directed
the orchestra.
Dinner and supper were served by the
Ladies Aid of the church in the basement
of the church. It was a memorable
celebration and will be long remembered
by those who attended.
BIG CATHOLIC MEET
A subdivision of the National Central
Verein, the German Aid Society which
compose the State Federation of the
German Catholic societies will hold their
annual meeting in the city of Sleepy Eye
on the dates of September 24, 25 and 26.
The meeting is expected to be well at
tended as three hundred delegates have
been named and hundreds of laymen all
over Minnesota will also attend. New
Ulm undoubtedly will furnish a large
delegation since the town of Sleepy Eye
supported the meeting so loyally when
it was held at New Ulm some time ago.
A special train will be run from the Twin
Cities over the Northwestern line which
will arrive in the city at 11.45 a. m. and
leave Sleepy Eye for the Cities at 8 p. m.
The meeting is in charge of Rev. J.
Klein, Rev. Youngworth, William Brust,
George Glotzbach, Alois Bertrand, John
Ebenhoh and Dr. M. A. Kiefer.
Sunday will be devoted to a number
of services conducted by the priests of
Sleepy Eye and Bishop Busch of St.
Cloud and Bishop Trobec of St. Paul will
be present and deliver addresses.
COUNTY CONVENTION
MEETS HERE TODAY
DEMOCRATS WILL RALLY TO
THE FIGHT BEFORE THEM
AT THE POLLS.
COUNTY ORGANIZATION MUST
BE PERFECTED AND PLANS
ARRANGED.
To-day (Wednesday) afternoon at
3 o'clock the Democrats of Brown Coun
ty will assemble in mass convention
for the purpose of organizing a perma
nent democratic County Committee,
electing a permanent chairman, vice
chairman, secretary and treasurer, also
an executive committee and a precinct
committeeman for each voting district
within the County. This meeting is held
pursuant to a proclamation issued by
Fred E. Wheaton, Chairman of the
Democratic State Central Committee
which reads as follows:
"To the Democrats of Minnesota:
A call is hereby issued to the Demo
crats of each County in Minnesota to
assemble in mass convention at the
County seat in their respective counties
on Wednesday, September 20, 1916 for
the purpose of organizing a permanent
Democratic County Committee, electing
a permanent chairman, a vice chairman,
secretary and treasurer, also an executive
committee and a precinct committee
man for each voting district within the
County."
The County member of the State
Central Committee (or, in his absence,
the chairman of the retiring county com
mittee) will preside at the mass conven
tion, following which he will forward
report immediately to the chairman of
the state central committee. Chairman
Wheaton admonishes the Democrats to
get together, work together and win to
gether.
The Brown County convention will be
held in New Ulm this afternoon at 3
o'clock at Turner Hall and it is hoped to
make the meeting a rousing demonstra
tion of the plans of the party to work
for victory. Postmaster Fred Pfaender
will call the meeting to order but will be
obliged because of his position to resign
the chairmanship and some one else must
be chosen in his place. There will, if
past attendance is any criterion, be some
thirty to fifty Democrats present altho
the shortness of the notice for the con
vention may lessen the number somewhat.
NIGHT CLASSES START
WEEK.
NEW ULM, BROWN COUNTY, MINNESOTA, WEDNESDAY, SEPT. 20, 1916.
NEXT
It has been decided to open the night
school next Monday evening for the
benefit of those who wish to secure a
commercial training without giving up
their daily employment. The classes
will be conducted at the High School
building in the commercial department
and will be in charge of Mr. Viergever,
commercial teacher and his assistant,
Miss Watson. The classes were very
large last year and it is expected that
the attendance will be even better this
year.
There will be a preliminary meeting
at the High School Assembly Room
Friday evening of this week when all who
wish to attend the night classes this year
are asked to be present and complete
arrangements for doing so. This will
leave Monday evening free for work
with the enrollment out of the way.
The price of tuition this year will be
$6.00 payable in advance. This makes
the cost very reasonable for the year's
work and those who enter now will get
the full benefit of the money expended
while those who enter later will have to
pay the full amount of the year's tuition.
There will be classes in English, Arith
metic, Penmanship, Bookkeeping, Sten
ography, Typewriting and possibly
Commercial Law.
CZECHS PLAN CONVENTION.
Hopkins is already, making prepara
tions for the Sokol Convention which is
to be held in that city the latter part of
next June. The convention proper will
last two days and the third day, prefer
ably Sunday will be given over to an
exhibition of gymnastic exercises pre
ceded by a monster parade. Other
cities that were bidding^or the meet
were Milwaukee, La Crosse and Owaton
na. The "Sokols" are an organization
similar to the Turners and their member
ship is composed entirely of Czechs.
There are societies in almost every State
of the Union and some of the societies,
especially in the larger centers, have a
large membership.
NICOLLET FARMERS
HOLD EQUITY MEET
AGRICULTURALISTS LEARN IN
UNION OF FORCES IS
STRENGTH.
TIMES HAVE CHANGED SINCE
EARLY DAYS OF GRANGE
MOVEMENT.
R. D. Wagner's grove about one mile
east of Klossner was the scene Sunday
afternoon of a well attended picnic of the
Klossner Local Union of the American
Society of Equity. In spite of the un
satisfactory weather and the bad roads
over'two hundred people congregated in
the grove for the purpose of recreation
and education. There were farmers
present from Lafayette, West Newton
Courtland, Nicollet, Bernadotte and'
Milford. Some years ago such a gath
ering would have been practically an
impossibility because of inability of the
people living so far apart to get together,
but with the advent of, the automobile
this has all been changed and the far
mers are able to meet and talk over
things which might prove mutually
benefipial.
Last Sunday's picnic was a get-to
gether meeting of farmers of Nicollet
County for the purpose of discussing
ways and means of conducting farm
business to better advantage. Two
addresses were made. The first speaker
was a Mr. Monkman, representative of
tljp A. R. Kirk Commission Co. ot South
St. Paul. He explained in a convincing
manner what the Equity stands for, what
it already has done for the farmers and
what it will do for them in the future. The
other speaker was Col. Wilkinson of
Lake Elmo, known as one-of the war
horses of the Equity movement. In
his talk he touched practically upon
every phase of the movement, gave a
history of how it was started and how
h^beTBn steadily-growing" lever since
its inception. He also spoke of the early
day struggles and of the opposition that
they encountered among agriculturists.
Happily, according, to the speaker, these
things are changing and the movement
is now finding support where some years
ago it found only ridicule and opposition.
After the speeches there were races for
the girls and boys and other sports and
amusements. The Bernadotte band
furnished the music. In the evening
there was a dance for which occasion the
Grussendorf brothers furnished the
music. Nearly every one brought their
own lunch. Those who did not were
given an opportunity to buy from the
local society.
The present officers of the Klossner
local are Frank Guggisberg, Pres. John
Ulrich, Vice Pres. John Preisinger, Secy,
and Treasurer. One of the objects of
Sunday's gathering was the election of
delegates to the State convention .which
meets in St. Paul in November. As such
delegates -the following were chosen:
Fred Buddensiek, Levi Samuelson, Oscar
Olson, Henry Meyer, Frank Osborn and
Fred Bonkart. From a social and also
an educational standpoint, Sunday's
picnic of the Klossner Union must be
pronounced an unqualified success.
VOTE FOR NUMBER ONE
The State of Minnesota is an un
developed wilderness—two-thirds of it
is. In the south part of the state, with
our populous cities and rich farms we
hardly realize it. But, with the excep
tion of the iron ranges and a fringe along
the railway lines, the northern part of the
state is almost unsettled.
Swamps cover whole counties. In
other parts the timber is so thick and
tangled a a wolf can hardly get
through. Yet under those trees and
beneath the waters of the swamps are
millions of acres of the richest soil in the
world. It needs only clearing and
draining to support an immense popu
lation.
But one man can not drain his quarter
section or forty acres alone, and cut a
road to it. To clear it is no small under
taking. The state must help. It can
well do so. Much of the land belongs to
the state for school and other purposes
To afford this help without expense
to the people of the state is the purpose
of Amendment Number One, which ia
to be voted on November 7. This
amendment provides that $250,000 of
money received from the sale of state
lands shall become a "revolving fund"
for the improvement of such lands.
With a part of this money a road
will be driven and' a ditch dug. A few
acres will be cleared-on forty acres. And I of this week.
the land, formerly worth $2 an acre, will
be sold for perhaps $10 an acre, enough
more, anyway, to pay for the work.
Then this money, paid back by the set
tler in the increased price of the land,
will be used to improve another, tract,—
and so on—"revolving". Nobody will
lose anything. It won't cost us any
money. And it will do an immense
amount of good. It will make homes
for the boys of this generation.
Be sure to vote for Amendnemt
Number One.
Even the weather man "had a heart"
when it came to the big 'military picnic
Sunday and citizens and visitors turned
out in hundreds at Hermann's Park to
help provide funds for the Co. "A"
boys at Camp Llano Grande. The
sheltered location kept the wind out and
let the warm sun in and everybody en
joyed the opportunity to spend the day
in the open.
The New Ulm Concert Band furnished
the music for the afternoon to keep things
lively and games of chance, bowling,
lunch and other refreshments and amuse
ments provided the excuse for staying
on the grounds. The gross receipts
proved a surprise to the committee in
charge because they were much larger
then the most optimistic anticipated.
They aggregated the sum of $387 and it
is estimated that the net receipts will be
in the neighborhood of $225.00.
GERMAN METHODIST MEET
CONFERENCE.
IN
The Northern German Methodist
Conference which includes the territory
of Minnesota and North Dakota held
their meeting last week from Wednesday
to Sunday evening at the Central Metho
dist Church in Minneapolis. The meet
ing was opened by an address by Gilbert
S. Stansell of the Hennepin Methodist
church. Addresses were delivered the
following days by Rev. J. A. Mullinger
of Chicago and Reverend W. F. Finke,
one of the professors at St. Paul Park
college.
Perhaps one of the most interesting
addresses of the convention was delivered
by Bishop Charles. Bayard MitchelL ol
St. Paul Thursday evening on the subject
of "The Modern Idiot". Bishop Mitchell
in the treatise of his subject began by
explaining the origin of the word "Idiot."
Years ago according to Bishop Mitchell,
when people were extremely interested
in the upkeep and the welfare of their
government, any man whose civic pride
and devotion was not strong enough to
cause him to bestow some of his time
and effort in the interest of his govern
ment, was called an idiot, this being the
original meaning of the word. He spoke
of the man of today who is so busily
engaged in the reaping of shekels that
he has no time to devote to the welfare
of his government or is too intensely
engaged in his worldly pursuits to assist
in the work of his church as one who
has the lineaments of the idiot as in the
days of yore.
In appreciation of the untiring efforts
of Miss Sauter, the Conference Secretary
of the Women's Missionary society the
conference conferred upon her the
honorary title of Life Manager of this
organization.
Saturday evening the subject under
discussion was Missions and addresses
were delivered by Rev. C. Hohn of New
Ulm and Rev. A. M. Boswell of Phila
delphia.
The meeting was well attended by
German Methodists from all over the
states of Minnesota and North Dakota
Among those attending from this city
were Reverend and Mrs. C. G. Hohn
and Mrs. G. F. Reineke.
GEM RE-OPENS
William Stohlmann, who recently re
turned from his theatrical tour and John
Schreyer have gone into the "movie
business and have leased the Gem
Theatre. They gave their first show
Monday evening. It will be their aim
to run a clean show house. They have
made application to the city council for
license which will be acted upon by that
body at its next regular meeting. The
new management has not fully decided
upon retaining the present name.
BAND CHOOSES NAME.
Members of the re-organized Second
Regiment Band have at last hit upon
the name which they will be known by
and their drum will shortly bear the
legend "Ex-Regiment Band." The boys
are practising regularly and next Sunday
will play for the Catholic festival at
Sleepy Eye and ten of their number have
been engaged to play at Clements where
a street fair will be in progress Saturday
iifMtMi^krjdi &$& lUli
NUMBER38
THANKSGIYING SET
FOR BOYS RETURM
MEN AT THE FRONT FEEL SURE.
THEY WILL EAT TURKEY IN
MINNESOTA.
INTERESTING TRIP DESCRIBED*
BY CORDES. MALARIA
THREATENS.
Since publishing our last reports from
Camp Llano Grande last week stating:
that the correspondent of the Review
had received orders from headquarters
that men in uniform must not correspond
with their home papers we have re
ceived a personal letter from Elmer
Cordes, one of the boys at the front, and
as it deals wholly with an expedition,
made by himself and Henry Grussendorf,
and has nothing whatever to do with
military affairs, we feel that we are at
liberty to publish it in full, knowing that
the story as told of the boys' visit to a
southern summer resort will prove very
interesting reading.
Llano Grande, Texas*
Sept. 12, 1916.
My dear Miss Payne:
I have been wanting to write to you
of Texas and my experiences down here
for quite awhile but Tommy has "done"
camp in such a thorough way that it
seemed hardly fair to repeat. Several
days ago however Henry Grussendorf
and I stole a march on him and took
advantage of an excursion that went to
Corpus Christi.
We left Llano Grande after quite a
bit of "red tape" in secuinrg our papers
for leave finally however the mar*
higher up decided he could spare us for
a day or so, gave us that necessary
printed form, we saluted real "peppy'*
and got over to the station in due time
Not every man took advantage of the
excursion as it happened we were the
only ones from our regiment. We
settled down for a good long jaunt. This
railroad has nothing on our M. & St. L.
We had memories of the trip the week
previous to Brownsville and although
that is a comparatively short trip it took
the one-lunged outfit three hours before
it finally struggled around the curve and
into Brownsville.
As you know, we had quite a storn*
some weeks ago and we were naturally
discussing the results of it as we saw it
from the car window—in German (as
usual!) There were some Indiana
fellows sitting directly back of us after
listening to us for some time one of them
nudged the other and said "Isn't it
funny how these New Yorkers talk, you
can't understand them!" We had quite
a time getting over the comparison of
our New Ulm German (for instance
"Ich bin in Reber gejumpt!") and the
New York English.
The storm had been decidedly worse
toward St. Benita and Harlingen. You:
could look out of the window anywhere
between those two places and see tin
roofing scattered around. The biggest
building in Harlingen had the entire roof
taken off, the windmills were down
everywhere.
After we left Harlingen the course was
due north parallel with the coast but
inland some ten miles after that we
entered a regular desert. We didn't
see a house or cabin of any sort as far
as the eye could see stretched a barren
waste, reminding one strongly of Sparta*
Wis. occasionally great sand-dunes
would loom up way off in the distance
sometimes we would see a stunted
growth of struggling brush. This kept
up for some fifty miles.
By our schedule we knew that we were
due in a short time to arrive at Kings
ville. The conductor told us that we
had twenty minutes for lunch at this
place. It is by far the most picturesque
place that I've ever seen. The entire
town is owned by King, who in the early
90's saw the possibilities of this great
Southern valley and bought it for a song.
Perhaps the palms and date trees are
more appealing to us but for natural
beauty this country seems to be working
nature overtime. King's home is a
veritable mansion surrounded with per
fect lawns and palms. He has put up
one of the rambling hotels which is
easily a block long. The only drawback
is the fact that it's not on the Gulf.
The country between Kingsville and
Corpus Christi was more fertile and con
sequently under cultivation. The crops
looked anything but promising. My
knowledge of farming is rather limited
but to my notion this bubble about
farming down here is still very much in
the perspective.
When we arrived at Corpus Christ
about four o'clock in the afternoon, I wa*i
(Continued on page 2)
|U»«»-i
*-1
^3
