THE BARM DAILY TIME
PKICK, OXK CKXT.
HA 111 IK. VERMONT, WEDNESDAY, S KPT KM II Kit 20. 191(1.
VOL. XX -NO. 159.
TIDE OF BATTLE
TURNS IN EAST
TOJEUTONS
Great Engagement in Do
brudga Is Said by Reports
from Berlin and Sofia to
Be in Favor of the Central
Powers and Petrograd Is
I Silent
FIGHT FOR HALICZ
IS MOST INTENSE
In Galicia and Volhynia the
Teutons Claim to Have
Gained the Advantage
over Russians In Mace
donia the Entente Allies
Seem to Be Winning
Fighting on a huge scale is in progress
along the eastern war front, where the
renter of interest shifted following the
let up in heavy allied attack along the
Somme front in the west. Evidence is
aroumulating that the central powers are
now devoting their main attention to
campaigns in the east, 'concentrating
large forces against Rumania, notably in
Dobrudja, anil putting all possible avail
able men in the field to stop the Russian
inarch on Iemberg via Haliez and men
acing the drives of the Russians and Ru
manians in the Carpathians and Tran
svlvania. ' Roth Berlin and Sofia report the de
velopment of the great battle line the
Russians and Rumuninns have taken up
in Dohrudja to defend the railroad route
into the interior of Rumania. This en
gagement, they declare, is turning in fa
vor of the central powers.
Latest reports from the fighting in Ga
licia and Volhynia tell how the Teutonio
forces are on the offensive and claiming
decided advantages over the Russian
armies. Fetrograd is s.ilent regarding
these operations.
In Macedonia, the trend of the cam
paign appears to favor the entente arm
ies. Comparative quiet prevails in the
Somme region.
BULGARIANS CLAIM
ITALIANS DEFEATED
IN MACEDONIA
Four Villages Said to Have Been Taken
Sofia Desptach Also Asserts That
Bulgarians Are Winning in
Eastern Rumania.
Sofia, Tuesday, via London, Kept. 20.
Official announcement was made here to
day that Italian troops on the Macedon
ian front had been driven back by the
Bulgarians, who occupied four villages.
In eastern Rumania, along the new
battle front south of the railroad from
Constenza on the Black sea to T.erna
voda on the Danube, a great battle is in
progress, which is developing in favor
of the Bulgarians, the announcement
says.
Fierce fighting continues around Flor
ina. '
fc" GREEK ULTIMATUM
SENT TO GERMANY
And Also to Bulgaria Demanding Im
mediate Return of Soldiers Taken
Prisoners at Eavala.
Athens, Tuesday, via London, Sept. 20.
There is reason to believe that the
Greek government has sent an ultima
tum to Germany and Bulgaria, expir
ing Wednesday night, demanding the im
mediate return of soldiers taken prison
ers at Kavala.
BRITISH MAKE GAIN
AT A NEW POINT
Attack Germans South of Arras on West
ern Front and Captured 200 Yards
of Trenches.
Ixindon, Sept. 20. British troops south
of Arras yesterday captured 200 yards
of German trenches? says the official
statement to-day by British army head
quarters. ALLIES LOSE 500,000
In the Battle of the Somme, According to
Berlin Report.
Berlin, by wireless, Sept. 20. British
and French "losses in the battle of Somme
have reached about half a million men,
the Overseas News agency estimates.
MAY EVACUATE TRIESTE.
Austrians Said to Be Making Prepara
tions for It.
Athens, Sept- 20, via London. It is
stated in most reliable diplomatic sources
here that the Austrians are preparing
for. the evacuation of Trieste.
RUMANIA WINS.
Bucharest Official Report Tells of Suc
cesses in Bobrudja.
Bucharest via London, Sept. 20 The of
ficial report to day announces that the
Rumanian have rained success against
the GennB and Bulgarian troop, in Do- j
NEW NAVAL BOARD
Organlied and Becomea Tart of United
States Govetnment.
Wa.hingtoit. I). C. Sept. .. The navy
civilian consulting board, comprising 21
of the nation' most eminent sciential
and engineer, took it place yesterday
as a legalized bureau of the navy de
part mm t and the name of it members,
headed by, Thoma A. Kdison as chair
man, were placed on the r 11 under a
recent act of Congress a "officers of the
I'nited States government."
TIih board' inauguration was attend
ed by impressive ceremonies held in the
office' of Secretary Daniel. The highest
ranking oflicera o'f the department were
present ami welcomed their new com
rades to the naval ei vee. Secretary Dan
els, speaking a administrative head of
the navy, declared that the occasion
signified a great strengthening for the
nation's nrl line of defense and gave
renewed promise for the restoration of
American prestige on the scus.
The board then effected a permanent
ofllcial organization with Mr. Kdison as
chairman; William I Saunders, of the
American Institute of Mining Engineers,
and Dr. Peter C. Hewitt, of the In
ventors' Guild, both of New York City,
at vice-chairman; and Thomas Robbins,
of the Inventors' Guild, aa secretary.
Preliminary plans for the $1,51X1,000
naval laboratory to be built under the
board's direction were discussed and a
committee of six was appointed to in
vestigate and report on a site. It was
said the work 'would be expedited with
a view of beginning actual construction
as soon as possible. The committee com
prised Mr. Edison, Mr. Robbins, V. H.
Whitney, L. II. Baekel and Frank J.
Spragne and Lawrence Addicka.
Howard E. Collin of Detroit an
nounced that the committee suveying in
dustrial resources with a view of mobil
izing them in time of war, virtually had
completed its work.
Secretary Daniels and most of the
board members left last night on the na
val yacht Dolphin to witness target prac
tice manoeuvres. They will be taken
aboard one of the dreadnoughts.
RAT FLEA ABSOLVED.
Does Not Transmit Infantile Paralysis,
It is Found.
New York, Sept. 20 Efforts of federal
and city health authorities to determine
the source of infantile paralysis have
been unsuccessful, it was disclosed last
night in announcement by I'nited States
public health service officials of the aban
donment of the latest theory that the rat
flea transmits the disease.
Another attempt to trace the diseaso
to dogs and cats taken from houses
where there had been patients, also
nrnveit futile. Tests were made in the
eitv laboratories on six such animals, but
while they were found to have paralysis,
it was asserted that none nart tne disease
from which the children suffered.
CHILD EMPLOYMENT.
Is Being Presented in Many States of the
Union.
It la so well recognized that certain
occupations may involve serious dangers
tn vnuiur. pro wine nersons that most
states now have their child labor laws.
Massachusetts, which has been a leader
in legislation of this character, is now
engaged in a systematic effort to collect
information that may be of value in de
terminining the need of changes in its
present laws and regulations governing
the employment of minors. At the re
quest of the Massachusetts board of la
bor and industries, Assistant Surgeon M.
Vietnr Saffnrrl of the. United States pub
lic health service was detailed by the.
federal government to co-operate wuu
the authorities in a study of the effect
of employment in various occupations on
fhn liralt.h mid nhvsical development of
children now permitted by law to work
therein. A report of this study with re
spect to the cotton manufacturing in
dustry of Massachusetts has just been
published by the federal government as
public healtn bulletin io. io, rawwu
"Influence of occupation on health during
adolescence."
The physical condition of over 600 boys
between the ages of 14 and 18 employed
in this industry in different parts of the
state received careful study. It was
hrnncrht. out that in Massachusetts boys
between these ages for the most part
do not remain long in the cotton mills.
This fact and the strict regulations of
the state governing the employment ef
minors may not make some of the con
clusion reached in this local investigation
equally true elsewhere, but among the
facts disclosed the following may be
mentioned.
A ennsidcrable proportion of the
ironnrrer hovs and also of those over 10
were undersized and physically undevel
oped for their ages, while those between
15 and IB averaged larger man ouier
rlnaap. of bovs of their atre with which
comparisons were made. This fact is ex
plained by the accumulation in me mms
nf Kfrnnc bovs waitim? to reach the ace
of 16 to go into permanent "full time"
occupations. The presence of a note
worthy proportion of undersized ooys is
not ascribed to the effects of the occupa
tion, hut to the fact that the cotton mill
offers one of the few chances of employ
ment for undersized rjoys. r.viaence oi
iniimnni effect of their work or work
ing conditions, even of the temperature
and humidity of the mills, on normal
boys was seldom found, although further
;nv.t;ra;on of nossible effects of at
mospheric conditions is recommended.
Probably as a result oi tne sune regula
tions relative to the issuance of employ
ment certificates comparatively few cases
of dangerous diseases were discovered.
There was, however, a wide variety of
defective conditions disclosed by the in
vestigation, many of them of such a
character as to impair seriously the fu
ture health and economic usefulness of
the individuals concerned if not remedied.
TO DISSIPATE DISTRUST.
Greece is About to Depart from Princi
ple of Neutrality.
London. Sept. 2. A Renter- dispatch
from Athens, dated yesterday, says: ''It
is learned on good authority that this
morning's conference of Premier Kaloger
popoulos and the foreign minister with
King Constantine resulted in a deeiion
in principle for departure fr m neutral
itv. with a view t disipat;ng the m
t elite's pprents distrust of th- new cab
inet. '
MUST WAIT FOR
RELIEF TROOPS
First Vermont Infantry Will
Start Homo When Ten
nessee Men Arrive
GEN. FUNST0N TELLS
WAR DEPARTMENT
Company C, Composed of
College Boys, Reached
Home To-day
Washington. D. C, Sept. 20. General
Funston notified the war department to
day that the 1st Vermont and the 2d
New York infantry regiments would be
returned to their home as soon as the
Tennessee units, now en route to the
border, relieve them.
Burlington, Sept. 20. Co. C, 1st Ver
mont infantry, and the attached sanitary
troops, composed almost entirely of Uni
versity of Vermont students, arrived at
Fort 'Ethan Allen this morning from
Kaglc Pass, Texas, where they have been
encamped with the Vermont troops for
nearly three months. They were sent
home" on representations made to the
war department by President Benton of
the University of Vermont.
Arrrnngements are being made at the
fort for the arrival of the entire regi
ment of Vermont troops. It is thought
the men will leave Eagle Pas in a day
or two. The troop train will consist of
three detachments, made up as follows:
First section. Col. Ira I.. Reeves. Major
Walter O. Cooley of Itrattleboro, and
A, B, C, and D. companies and Major T.
J. Hagan. Second seetion, Lieut. -Col.
Fred H. Thomas of Montpelicr. Major .?.
M. Ashley of Burlington, Lieut. W.
Hayes Mitchell of Shelburne and I, K, L,
and M companies. Third section, Major
J. W. Tinker of St. .Tolmsbury, Lieut.
H. W. Taylor and K, F, G and H com
panies. Colonel Dick man has ordered that cer
tain portions of the barracks at Fort
Ethan Allen be placed in readiness for
the arrival of the Vermont guardsmen,
and which they will occupy until after
they are mustered out. It will probably
be a week from the date of the troops'
arrival before they are all mustered out,
as all of the government's property must
lie accounted for and numberless other
details looked after.
VILLA THREATENS
CHIHUAHUA CITY
Rumor Has it That He Captured the
City Following a Mutiny of a Large
Part of the Garrison.
San Antonio, Texas, Sept. 20. The be
lief that Francisco Villa soon will cut
Carranza's line of communication be
tween Chihuahua City and Juarez, if
he has not already done so, was suggest
ed by Major-General Funston to-day aft
er reading the report on Villa's Chihua
hua engagement, received by General Bell
at El Paso.
El Paso, Sept. 20. Rumors were cur
rent here to-day that Chihuahua City
has been captured bv Villa in a second
attack last night. General Francisco Gon
zales, commandant at Juarez, and Consul
Garcia declared the rumors to be with
out foundation. According to the ru
mor, the attack was preceded by a mu
tiny of a large part of the garrison. The
bandits are said to occupy the munici
pal and federal palaces, the penitentiary
and two fortified hills.
ELEVATED TRAINS'
WERE ATTACKED
Many Windows Shattered and Some Pas
sengers Received Injuries in New
York Last Night.
New York, Sept. 20. Throughout last
night elevated trains were subjected to
an almost ceaseless bombardment of bot
tles and bricks hurled from house tops
bv strike sympathizers. Car windows
were shattered and a number of passen-
-r at ,.,.-..
glTH nriR ihjuh.i. iwuaj men; ov
several attacks on surface cars, and the
police reserves were repeatedly called
out.
Serious rioting took place last night
when attempts were made to run cars
on the 42nd and 59th street cross-town
surface lilies. Mobs stormed two car
barns and overpowered the police and put
to flight all railway employes in those
vicinities. ' Several motornicn and con-
iductors who had not joined the strike
were beaten by the enraged crowds. Calls
were sent to police headquarters for re
serves but before they arrived much dam
age had been done. Many arrests were
made and many rioters were clubbed
by the police.
During the forenoon the attacks on the
surface cars continued intermittently. In
the past 24 hours the police reports in
4cated that there were arrested 20 men
ileclared to be former employes.
Why He Humed Away.
supposedly confirmed old bachelor
lately fallen deeply in love and
A
had
might le seen almot any day passing
and repassing the house of his lady-love.
One day he picked up a small thimble
which had suddenly rolled down the
step. He stood a while meditating on
the beauty of its owner and looking at
the thimble lovingly. Thrn he pressed it
lo his lips, saying :"' !i. that it were the
fair cheek of the wearer!" As he fin
ished he looked upward, hoping for a
glimp-e of her. but instead." from the sec
ond story window a big negro woman
looke! out.
-I' -be -aid. jb-a-e to toss up dat
liirH of mine.
I ...,ts to po on sew-
MOTHER ACCUSED OF NEGLECT
Which Caused the Death of Her Infant
Son.
Burlington, Sept. 20.-Mr.. KdithWing
was arrested at about 1 1 : :t o'clock lust
night by the police on a warrant issued
by State' Attorney T. E. Ilopkina charg.
Ing her with neglect toward her two
months' old son which resulted in hl
death. The woman, who did n"t appear
any too neat in her personal appear
ance, was taken to the police office, tak
en before night court and allowed to go
on her own recognizance, thi being
necessary because there are three other
children in the family who very much
need her attendance.
The child whose name was Robert
Edwin Wing, died yesterday morning
and the conditions surrounding its
death were reported to the state's at
torney for investigation. He ordered
an autopsy which was performed by Dr.
H. H. Stone of the state laboratory and
the conditions of the child's body are
alleged to be most shocking, in fact so
hocking that all would not bear print
ing. One of the contributing causes of
the child's (Jeath is said to have beeu
due to lack of nourishment.
The woman did not appear to be great
ly agitated over her arrest and the hor
rible charge brought again-t her, taking
the proceedings in very matter of fact
way, She lives at 77 Catherine street
ami claim to have lived here for the
past two years. According to her state
ment her husband lives in Yonngstown,
Ohio. She states that he sends her the
house rent every month and also from
seven to ten dollars per week for the
support of herself and children.
The case was continued to Thursday
afternoon and she was recognized in
the sum of $200 to the state. She was
instructed to go to her home, clean up,
and care for her other three children.
FIVE MEN KILLED
IN POWDER FACTORY
Officials of the .Etna Explosive Company
Say the Cause Probably Never
Will Be Known.
Huntington. Pa.. Sept. 20. Five men
were instantly killed and another was
fatally injured to-day when the dry
house" of the Mount I'nion plant of the
.Etna Explosive company was wrecked.
All were employes. The cause, officials
said, will probably never be known.
WHITMAN LED SEABURY.
And Bacon Was Slightly Ahead of Cald
er in New York.
New York, Sept. 20. With returns
from less than one half of the districts
in the state received. Gov. Charles S.
Whitman was leading Judge Samuel Sea
bury, his Democratic opponent, for the
Progressive endorsement for governor.
Only a fraction of the 46,000 enrolled
Progressives in the state went to the
polls and the average of their votes was
onlv about four to a district.
The Progressive vote, aroused more
interest among state '.rid national leaa
ers than any other feature of the pri
mary, for it was regarded as giving some
light on how the strength of the party
would be divided in the national election.
A majority of the Progressive leaders
of the state supported Mr. Whitman's
candidacy. The wing of the party, who
gave their aid to Judge Sea bury pro
fessed to be more than satisfied with the
result.
William F. McCombs, former chairman
of the Democratic national committee,
who was designated for the 'senatorial
nomination by the unofficial Democratic
state convention was leading his oppo
nent. Thomas F. Conway, a former lieu
tenant governor, by more than two to
one at midnight.
State Senator William M. Bennett,
who opposed Governor Whitman for the
Republican nomination, had received only
l.",671 votes, compared with M.llf'ti for
Whitman.
Robert Bacon was in the lead for the
Republican senatorial nomination when
returns had been received f'Oin 2,885 dis.
tricts out of 5,719 in the state. The
figures were:
Bacon, 70,415; Calder, 65,271.
RECEIVERSHIP RATIFIED.
By Stockholders of the Boston & Maine
Railroad.
Boston, Sept. 20. Ratification of the
action of the directors of the Boston &
Maine railroad in assenting to receiver
ship for the road was voted yesterday
at a special meeting of the stockholders.
The meeting had been called at the
request of minority interests, counsel for
whom took occasion to voire objections
to "the unseeining haste wUh which
the directors hurtled the corporation into
receivership at the point of its great
prosperity," and to state that thev had
... j A. . i .i. i. -.1
found the doors of the courts closed
against us, at least temporarily," in ef
forts to intervene in opposition to the
appointment of a receiver. The vote of
approval was overwhelmingly in favor of
endorsing the resolution introduced by
R, H. Ixmg of Framingham.
It was marked, howexer. by protests of
minority counsel, Conrad Crooker for
the Boston & Maine Minority Stockhold
ers' Protective association, that proxies
had been "fraudulently tricked by post
dating to effect an unbeatable majority
combination" and by Asa P. French, rep
resenting the Lawrence estate of Mod
ford, that the 51 per cent stockholdings
owned by the New York. New Haven &
Hartford railroad were voted illegally by
the trustees who are acting under federal
court appointment.
87 NORWICH FRESHMEN
And More
Are Expected
Next Week.
During
the
Xorthfield, Sept. 20.-1 p to
o'clock last evening S7 freshmen
20.-1
nine
had
registered for the year at Norwich uni
versity, and it is reasonable to exect
that more men will enter" within the
coming wi-ck.
Waterbury Man Heads Medical Society.
County Medical association vcMcrda v reservo.r. while the old mains are taken
the following ofliccrs were elceted: Pre-i- ,out at this point and new mains put n at
dent. S. Bidwell of Waterburv; vice-j a lower
president. C. H. Burr of Montpelier; see- As all this piece . through rock ,t .a
rctsrv. H. A. Wl.tnev of Xorthfield: 'esj-ected t w.II Uke a week. nd city
tres.'irer. D. C. J-rv.s of Barre. Dr. Bid- jwater user on the high level. nil prob
well read a paper on "A Few OWrv.-UWy he without water most of the time.
tion, on Con-umotion Without Tuberdi-l
.o-.s.
FARMERS
MAY REBEL
And Refuse to Sell Milk to
Boston Dealers at the
New Rate
SAYS SEC. PATTEE
OF LACONIA, N. II.
Consumer in Boston Must
Pay 10 Cents a Quart
After Oct. 1
Laconia. X. II., Sept. 20. The price to
be paid farmers for milk this winter, as
announced by Boston milk contractors
along with notice of an advance in charge
to the consumers, falls short of the mini
mum set by the New Kngland Milk Pro
ducer' association. Secretary Richard
Pattee said to-day: "In my judgment
this price will not be satisfactory and the
farmers will refuse to sell milk at less
than 50 cents a can."
Secretary Pattee pointed to the an
nouncement of H. P. Hood t Sons to
show that while the consumer will pay
one uent a quart advance on October 1,
or 10 cents a quart, t lie farmer would
receive only three-eighths of a cent un
der the contractors' proposition.
CONSUMERS PAY 10 CENTS.
After October 1, That Will Be the Price
of Milk.
Boston, Sept. 20. The retail price of
milk in Greater Boston will lie advanced
from I) to 10 cents a quart and from 5 to
6 cents a pint, lieginning Oct. 1, accord
ing to an announcement made last night
by the II. P. Hood and Sons company, one
of the largest milk contractors in the
city.
Dr. C. X. Davis, a director of the com
pany, said that on Oct. 1, the company
would pay producers three-eighths of a
quart more; that the new railroad rates
recently fixed by the interstate com
merce commission would increase the cost
of transportation one-eighth of a cent
per quart, and that it now costs the com
pany, one-half a cent more per quart to
handle the milk.
The price of cream is not affected. Oth
er contractors have not yet announced
what action they would take.
PLAN MORE PUBLICITY.
"Barre, Vermont The Granite Center of
the World" on Stationery.
Sponsored by the Barre Board of
Trade, a movement is under way among
the business men of the city as well as
manufacturers and quarriers to have the
imprint, "Barre. Vermont the Granite
Center of the World" placed on every
sheet of commercial stationery that
leave the city. Already the idea is
growing in favor and a number of mer
ehants have taken the initiative bv in
structing their stationer "to insert the
words under the last space line on each
sheet of commercial paper. The move
ment is one of several live-wire ideas
originated by the Board of Trade since
its rehabilitation. A business man may
be dealing in ribbon or oil and yet do his
little bit to boost the Barre grante pub
licity campngn and following the idea
through to its logical conclusion, every
boost for the home product is an incen
tive for more business in sundry other
lines.
That is the stand taken by the Board
of Trade and in a short time it is hoped
that everyone who uses business station
ery of any kind will have the printer in
sert the 'words. "Barre, Vermont The
Granite Center of the World" under the
last space line. The insertion does not
conflict with matter printed in the letter
head, but occupies, nevertheless, a con
spicuous position and is bound to be seen.
Kvery day, it is reckoned, business let
ters from Barre go to all four corners of
the country and a little bit of judicious
advertising of the kind recommended by
the Board of Trade is calculated to go a
long way toward making Barre granite
a by-word wherever there is a field for
memorials.
COUNTY RETURNS CANVASS
Not Tabulated Wholly Some Senatorial
Votes Known.
The Washington county canvassing
committee went over the returns of the
primary election for county officers yes
terday but did not succeed in tabulating
the eiifire vote, the following figures be
ing all that were available this forenoon.
Vote for Republican nominees for state
senators, F. C. Bancroft of Barre I own
2.0K5. Bert rand Demeritt of Duxbury
1,552, Henry F. Hill of Waterbury 1.540.
Democratic ticket: Senators, Fred V..
Callahan of Montpelier 734. Arthur W.
Hewitt of Plainfield (10. Robinson ot
Waterburv 644; assistant judges. Tilden
of Barre' 608. Pray of Plainfield 642;
sheriff, Dennis Donahue of Graniteville.
623; slate's attorney, Harry C. Sliurtleff
665.
TO SHUT OFF WATER
From Orange Brook Reservoir Pending
Pipe Relaying.
When Barre Town leiade improvements
.- . r, J .. l . I 'U 1
,,) me risi rmrre uwu uor c ii.-ij,-.
mills this summer, the grade was cut at
ne point to a level with the water mains
of the Barre water system. This neces
sitated a lowering of the mains, and
what work could lie done in advance has
lecn done. lieginning to-morrow, the
ater will be shut off from the Orange
though some n-T will gei u nen tne
(.tore sheds are hut down.
NEARLY UNANIMOUS
FORJ.C. SHERBURNE
Orange County Republicans Gave Ran
dolph Man a Very Flattering Vote
1 Shown By Canvass of
Returns.
Chelsea , Sept. 20, The rsnvass of
ote for county oflices, made yesterday
by Hale K. Darling, clerk, Clarence W.
Clark of Brook Held, chairman of the Re
publican county committee, and Carl M.
licit with of Chelsea, chairman of the
Democratic county committee, revealed
the following:
Senator: Charles Bigelow, Republican,
HK2; i.eorgo C. Flint, Repiihliean, 47rt;
Victor A. Grant, Democrat, tl8.
Assistant judges of county court: Clin
ton A. Adams, Repiihliean, P2."; Benja
min II. Adams. Republican. 1,141; Orange
P. Dickey, Democrat. (Hi; Frank P. Lam
son, Democrat, 5S; Benjamin H. Adams,
Democrat, I; Joshua F. Bailey, Demo
crat, Is W, K. Tinker. Democrat, I.
Sheriff Azro A. Heed, Republican,
1.272; Smith J. SUco. IVmoerat. 57; Sel
v H. Thayer. Republican, 1; W. S. Bry
ant, Republican, I; George C, Hastings,
Democrat, 1; K. W. Kent, Republican, 2;
X. J. Pratt. Republican, 2; J. K. Daily,
Democrat, 1.
High bailiff: William K. Worthley. Re
publican, 1.2U0; George C. Hastings,
IVmoerat, (ieorge W. Downing, Re
publican, 1; R. W. lbslge. Democrat, 1 ;
Smith J. Sisco, l)emorat, I.
State attorney: John C. Sherburne,
Republican, I.2HS; Stanley C. Wilson,
Republican, 1; Frank S. Williams. Demo
crat, 2; H. O. Bixby, Democrat, 1.
Judge of probate. Bradford district:
Hammond T. Baldwin, Republican, 571;
K. X. Ifeaton, Democat, 25.
Judge of probate, Randolph district:
George L. Stow, Republican, 844; Josh
ua F. Bailey, Democrat, 32; George L.
Stow, Democrat, 1.
CASE WITH JURY.
Lippencott vs. Malnati Concluded-
-Two
Divorce Actions. .
Introduction of evidence in the Lippen
cott vs. Malnati case was completed in
county court yesterday afternoon, argu
ments made this forenoon by the oppos
ing counsel and the jury retired In-fore
the noon hour to delilierate.
Two divorce cases were entered with
the county clerk to-day as follows: Al
ma Bussiere vs. Leander Bussiere; Maud
W, Paine vs. Walter H. Paine, petition
for support. In the case of Frank M.
Corrj", trustee vs. Barre Granite and
Quarry company, et al, the plaintiff has
tiled his apeal to supreme court.
THIRD CHILD DIES
From Infantile Paralysis in Brookfield
No Other Cases Developed.
Brookfield, Sept. 20. The third child
in the family of Albert Jordan died of
infantile paralysis yesterday. The first
child died Monday morning and the sec
ond Monday night. No new cases have
developed.
TALK OF THE TOWN
A man locked up by Officer John W.
Dineen near noon to-day will be ar
raigned on an intoxication charge to
morrow morning.
Walter Wood, Ernest Calhoun and
George Klwell of Dorchester, Mass., are
passing a few (lavs in the citv as the
guests of E. M. Laws of Wellington
street.
Dean Lawrence, who has been visiting
friends on North Main street since the
first of the month, left this noon for
Woodsville, where he will visit for a few
days before going to his home in Lunen
burg. Hurley W. Heath, former instructor
of science at Goddard seminary and now
teacher of science and chemistry at
Lawrenceville academy at Lawrenceville,
N. J., left the city to-day for Ins .New
Jersey destination, after spending a few
days in Plainfield since Kamp Kill Kare
closed at St. Albans bay about two
weeks ago. Mr. Heath was an instructor
at the camp this summer.
Another well known film concern is
anxious to display Barre's famous gran
ite industry on the screen mid to the end
that the picture may bo taken most
advantageously, the general manager of
the Town $ Country Films, Inc., is cor
responding with the secretary of the
Granite Manufacturers' association.
Sometime before snow flies the movie
people plan to film the quarries as well
ns the cutting plants. It is represented
that the educational film resulting from
the cinematograph man's visit to the
Barre granite region will be shown be
fore 4.1100.0(H) people in 3.00(1 theatres in
the I'nited States. Manufacturers and
quarriers are going to co-operate with
the picture folks.
Barre granite manutactiirers ana quar
riers are anticipating a lecture in the
near future by Robert E. Belt, chief ac
countant of the federal trade commis
sion, who will speak on a subject near
to members of both associations. "Im
proved Accounting Methods" is the topic
to be handled by Mr. Belt, according to
a personal letter received by Sec. H. P.
Hinman of the manufacturers associa
tion from Edward H. Hurley of Wash
ington. D. C. chairman of the commis
sion, who is making the arrangements
for Mr. Belt's visit to Barre. 1 orre
spondeuce with the federal commission
has elicited much information of value
to the granite industry in Barre, but a
personal visit from the commission's ex
pert accountant is expected to be of in
calculable worth. The meeting w ill be
held sometime in October.
For many years the farmers in Ver
mont claimed that alfalfa epuld not be
grown in this stste. But several plants'
nf the Californian prize hav were'
brought into the city last night by Conn- i
ty Agent F. H. Abbott from the farm of
(ieorge May of Marshtield. Mr. May h.is i
a plot of ground sowed to this gra. J
there lieing two varieties on the three !
acres. One variety is what is known in j
California as the common alfalfa, while
the other plant is of a newer variety, it j
being known as the (Jrimm plant. The j
roots on the common plant are about II ;
inches in leng'h ami are very straight.'
with very little taper, while the l.nmm ;
variety has a tnr-Vier root with several j
smaller roots attached to the one main j
root. The alfalfa which Mr. AM"tt l-.si
it his offi e is the second crop this -fi- ;
son and is about 1 inches in bright. 1 he I
eed was sowed the latter part of Ma.
FAVORITISM IN
STREET WORK
Intimated by Alderman Rey
nolds Against Street
Committee
EXTRAVAGANCE
HINTED IN r'SGING.
Aldermen Virti y y Tell Ono
Another to nd Their
Own Viness
Dum duni ballistics of the verbal sort
whistled at random ubout the city coun
cil chamber last evening when the coun
cil men, in their regular weekly assem
bly, hurried through the accumulation of
routine affairs and devoted the remainder
of their allotted time to using the prod.
Alderman Reynolds was in charge of the
question box and when he lifted the lid
there was trouble in much the same vol
ume that issued forth from the well
known box of Pandora. For divers and
sundry reasons, bids on the South Main
street paving project were not opened and
it looks as though the council had done
tinkering with that thoroughfare for a.
time, at lcat.
It isn't to the credit of the city fathers
that they were out of order most of the
time at the fug end of the session, but it
is hardly to their discredit that the mar
ket condition of steel rails and the likei
is not such as to warrant further action
on paving plans.
Disposition of the state road money
was the subject of a startling peroration
from Alderman Reynolds, who said that)
$13,0110 had been expended in wards 1, 5
and ti this year to the utter exclusion of
the other bailiwicks, when he was in
formed that County Supervisor Currier
had designated Merchant street as tho
section where the money is to be ex
pended. Mr. Reynolds directed his in
quiry at the street committee and whs
informed that Merchant street was desig
nated when it developed that rails for tho
proposed Washington street cement work
could not lie purchased. When Alderman
Reynolds intimated that the street com
mittee was using star chamber methods
in directing the apportionment he wa
quite flatly informed by Chairman Glys
son that the street committee's doing
were no concern of his.
Moreover, the chairman recalled a time,
he said, when Chairman Reynolds of the
fire committee invited him to keep his
oar out of the fire department current
and he broke off by allowing that as he
had had it "handed" to him, he was tak
ing advantage of the opportunity to tnss
it right back across the table. Alderman
Reynolds parried with a query as to what
the street committee had done with three
complaints from ward 4 in the past
month, particularly to the grievance of
Prospect and Hillside avenue residents.
He was told that the committee is doing
its best to serve all complainants and
that ward 4 grievances will receive at
tention in due time.
Alderman Healy interrupted the oral
manslaughter by asking the mayor if the
colleagues were in order. The same deli
cate question with Alderman Healy un
der suspicion of giving Cu-shing's manual
a side bender came up n few moments
afterward when Alderman Shurtleff and
Mr. Healy came together in a clash over
the big hole which the water department
dug on North Main street. Mr. Reynolds
lifted the lid on the question box again
and this time asked it the water com
mittee could conscientiously approve of
the commission basis employed in doing
the work. To which Mr. Healy replied
that the emergency justified the means.
Mr. Shurtleff averred that he or Mr.
Reynolds undoubtedly could have saved
the city more than 1,000 if they had
done the work and suggested that one
economy would be the elimination of all
but one 'boss. Questions involving the
method of digging a continuous ditch to.
determine the terminus of the eight-inch
niHin and the alternative of sinking holes
at intervals were being warmly discussed
when adjournment was taken on the mo
tion of Mr. Reynolds.
After considerable discussion in which
a hastily contrived report from the char
ity committee made certain recommenda
tions, the office of the city physician was
declared vacant, inasmuch as the commit
tee had given its opinion that Dr. P. S.
Duffy's absence from Barre is permanent.
Overseer W. J. Clapp. who called in to
see what action had been taken toward
fillinir the office, was told to employ any
one he should see fit until an appointment
is made.
Reporting on the ownership of a corner
of Pike street, the street committee stat- ,
ed that a clear title to the thoroughfare
can lie obtained by paying the sum of
$100 to a land owner. A resolution au
thorizing the committee to take the pre
liminary steps bv making a resurvey of
the street and appropriating $100 for
land damage was passed to its second
reading. A petition for a cement side
walk from the Prosjiect street briiige to
Ii. F. Mower's residence, which was signed
by Ixmis Romanis. was referred to the
committee to investigate.
The niavor was authorized to sign the,
opera house lease with the new lessee,
J. K. Hnban. w ifh an additional rider at
tached which inhibits the manager from
charging strictly local talent companies
more than 20 per night for the rental of
the theatre. A bond guaranteeing the
-tate immunity from expenses in the
case of a child receiving treatment in the
Auine institute at Brattleboro M
signed with the understanding that th
chills father, in turn, protect the city
from liability.
A communication 'he mayor eon
t.nn. d the re-ii-rMtieii of W. M. Spear a
s sjieiiil poli-c tint the resignation wa
,--epted. Rev. Edgar Crossland p
HMrcd with mapped appeal for relief
from -nrfsi-- water renditions in the vi
c nitv of the First Presbyterian enttrvh
ai..l lite rei.ie-t for an intake on Summer
(Continued on fifth pspe.I
brudja.
