" Write it on your heart that
every day is the best day in the
, year' Emerson.
44 The burden becomes light
that is cheerfully borne' Ovid,
VOL.
NO. 51
HYDE PARK, VERMONT, WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 20, 1910.
$1.25 A YEAR
4
m m m m mm
This blu. Tf, is that your
suhscriDtic " with this
number ana more
naoers will be sl u .. Mjless
vour subscription . ;wed.
Kenewat once so as v receive
next issue of oaper.
notice:
I will close my Toilet Parlors on
CPleasant Street about October 1 for a
several weeks' vacation.
Mks. Olib M. Green,
49-4t Morrisville, Vt.
Everything Way Up
T Now is the time to save every scrap
of old Junk. Telephone or drop a card
to O. K. and you will receive prompt
service and highest prices.
OSCAR KAHN -
Morrisville's Original Junk Man
Telephone, 25-5. I-ake Street, Morrisville Vt ,
FOR SALE
The Building Oommittee of Mount
Vernon Lodge offer for sale the
HOUSE ON THE MATTHEWS LOT
on Portland Street, Morrisville, former
ly occupied by M. P. Maurice. This
house will be sold as soon as possible to
make room for the new Masonic Tetu
pie, whioh it is expected, will be erected
on this site.
For information apply to 0. A. Slay-
ton or J. xl. Atcmnson.
A. H. Slayton, Secretary,
BUSINESS NOTICES.
For Sale. A few thousand feet of No.
5i-nch Clapboards.
U. fi. A. STAFFORD & SONS, Morrisville.
Cash Paid. Highest Cash Price paid for
Calves, Cheap Lows, bulls and Hogs.
lei. 1 24-3 r JOHN MINER, HYDE PARK.
F. C. LUGS GO.
PORTLAND STREET, MORRISVILLE. VERMONT.
11
rE ARE SOLE AGENTS for the B. F. Goodrich Rub
ber Footwear This includes the BROWN and the
WHITE " HIPRESS and the BLACK " STRAIGHT
LINE" BOOTS and RUBBERS. Look for the Red Line
'Round the Top.
Notb The following are the minimum retail prices and there will be
no deviation from them :
White "Hipress" Short Boots, :
Brown 44 Hipress Short Boots, :
Black Gum 44 Straight-Line" Short Boots,
" HIPRESS " Outwear all others, two
to one will not Leak, Crack
or Come Apart
$5.00 per pair
$4.00 per pair
$3.50 per pair
Look at our line of FALL HATS FOR MEN. The
New Military Styles, with the Self-Bound Brims, are very
popular. Prices range from $1.50 to $3.50.
AT SALEEEY'S
THie Mew
Fall
Which we are selling right now and
showing a good assortment in every line:
are
Women's Fall Suits,
Women's Coats,
Women's and Children's Rain Coats,
Girls' Coats and Dresses, ,
Women's New Dress Skirts,
Women's New Waists.
Men's Fall Suits,
Boys' Fall Suits,
Men's Top Coats,
Men's and Boys' Fall Hats and Caps,
's, Women's and Children's Sweaters,
And many other New articles for
wear and novelty.
EVERYTHING REASONABLY PRICED.
A. J. SALEEBY
"THE STORE THAT SAVES YOU MONEY.!
JOHNSON, ' J VERMONT 1
MORRISVILLE
C. Francis Blair of Buffalo, N. Y was
a visitor in town Thursday.
Several from here attended the dance at
Hard wick last Thursday evening.
Hon. Geo. Morse and wife have closed
their cottage at Highgate Springs.
Mrs. H. W. Drown was a business vis
itor in Jefferson ville last Wednesday.
Miss Lena Sears was a guest Thursday
of Miss Madeline Brodie in Hard wick.
Arthur W. Waite has been confined to
the house tbe'past few days by illness.
The regular meeting of the Woman's
Club will be held next Monday eveniug.
Mrs., Arthur Wheeler and daughter,
Marion Benson, have returned from
Bennington.
J. W. Titcomb of Lyndonville was in
town Friday in the interest of the County
Republican Olub.
Mrs. Jennie Wade Smith has sold her
residence on Congress street to Mr. and
Mrs. L. P. Thayer, possession to be
given Oct. 15.
Urban Livingston has completed his
engagement at the Cheney pharmacy
and his place is filled by Herbert Wright,
a former employee. '
Miss Bessie Ryder' returned Friday
morning from Sugar Hill, N. H., where
she has been employed at the Sunset Hill
House for two weeks.
Misses Zita and Theresa Town returned
home last Thursdav evening from the
White Mt9. where they have been at
work through the summer.
Mr. and Mrs. H. L. Delano have re
ceived news of the birth of a granddaugh
ter, a nine pound daugatef having ar
rived in the home of Mr. and Mrs. Har
old Bowles in Sugar Hill, N. H., yester.
day. Congratulations.
iasi ounaay morning tne large con
gregation at the Methodist Church was
highly entertained with 11 vocal solo, by
Mrs. Sarah Kublee Pike of New York
There is a green hill far away," by
Gunod. Mrs. Pike possesses a soprano
voice of great richness and brilliancy.
.uenry waite returned tbis morning
from a several days visit in Michigan,
Besides a good time with varifcr "rela
tives he relates three wonderful sights;
One was turning out three automobiles
in a minute at the Ford works, Another
was attending a Billy Sunday jneeting
where there were 2500 in the chir and
an audience of 12000 on a wtjk day,
and tne third was a visit to a tannery
employing 600 men.
Ray L. Lilley, a Morrisville boy, has
been appointed chief train despatcher of
the St. Johnsbury and Lake Cbamplain,
railroad, succeeding Geo. V, Ferguson
who has been promoted to train master,
Mr. Lilley it a son of Mrs. F. M. Ober,
He started his railroad work in the Mor
nsville freight depot. His Morrisville
friends will learn with pleasure of bis ad
yancement to his present responsible
position.
P. A. Has Record Attendance
Peoples Academy.the Morrisville grades
and the rural schools, all began Monday
morning. The enrollment in Peoples
Academy is the largest in the history of
the school, there being an attendance of
188 today, with prospects of at least ten
more to be added to the enrollment.
There are 58 in the entering class at tbis
time which is fourteen more than were
registered the second day last year. The
catering class occupy room two and
when the whole school is assembled in
No. 1 for devotional exercises the need of
better accomodations is very apparent,
While a good share of the time vtpr.
day was taken up in registration and or
ganization, the regular classes were
beard today. There was a registration
of 215 in the grades yesterday, which is
BDout less than the lull enrollment.
This number will be considerably in
creased as many of school age have not
yet registered.
Announcement
1 wish to announce to the people
of Morrisville and vicinity that
have bought the stock of goods in
the Wilson store at the lower end of
Portland street and shall continue
to carry a full line of Paints and
Wall Paper, Musical Supplies, the
latest Sheet Music and a large as
sortment of Souvenir Cards.
I shall appreciate the same liberal
support you have given this store in
the past, and t shall in every way
strive to use my customers so that
they will want to come here when
they need anything in my line.
E. J. MILLS
Morrisville, - Vermont
Town Representatives
The following candidates for Represen
tative will have their names printed on
the ballots next November, unless they
"officially" decline:
Belvidere E. S. Campbell. -
Eden A. F. Rogers.
' Elmore Will bold caucus.
Cambridge Ohas. H.' Bellows.
Hyde Park R. W. Crocker, Rep.; Den
nis Finnegan, Dem.
Johnson H. Q. Stiles, Rep.; E. P. Jose,
Progressive; H. W. Peck, .Dem.
Morristown E. A. Smalley, Rep.; Geo.
H. Thomas, Dem.
Stowe Harry Pike, Rep.
Waterville George H. Beard.
Wolcott Geo. Allen, Rep.
Prohibition Party Ticket
At the County mass convention of the
Prohibition party held in Morrisville
Sept. 12th the following ticket was placed
in nomination; Senator Linus Leavens,
Cambridge; Judge of Probate, Noyes G.
Wood, Hyde Park; Assistant Judges, T.
J. Stewart, Morrisville; H. M. Maxfield,
Johnson; States Attorney, W, E. Tracy,
Johnson; Sheriff, Wallace Davis, Wolcott;
High Bailiff, Geo. H.Gilmore, Cambridge
The County Committee, C. F. Smith
chairman; Rev. J. H. Wills, Vice-chair
man; V. A. Ober, Sec; A. H. Cheney,
Treas., W. E. Foss and H. O. Styles.
While Prohibition does not seem to be
much at the front in our state at present,
the time is not far distant when the
greatest question before the people of all
nations will be the wiping out of the drink
evil, and we of the United States will
have National Prohibition.
C. F. Smith, Sec'y,
Morrisville On State Ticket
Morrisville has a candidate for state
auditor. 'The aspirant for the job is Ed
L. Cleveland of Lake street, who was
the choice of the socialist party at the
recent primary election.
Woman's Club "
The first meeting of the Woman's Club
for the season 1916-17 : was held at the
library on Monday evening with forty
members present. The President, Mrs.
Harriet Ide, presided and in a happy
little speech welcomed the old members
as well as the new and asked for their
hearty coupe-ration in making this a rec
ord year in the history of the Club. The
chairmen of the various committees
were asked to outline their plans for the
year's work and some vacation notes
were given informally. Mrs. H. J. Fisher
gave a comprehensive and interesting re
port of the State Federation Convention
and Miss Oella Thompson read a well
written paper on the Biennial Federation
held in New York. Mrs. Lou Rublee
presented a paper upon Sentiment in the
Red Cross which was much enjoyed.
The meeting was then given over to
tne social committee and refreshments
of fruit punch and wafers were served
and a very pleasant social hour enjoyed,
A Hughes Club
A Hughes Club for Lamoille county
was organized at Hyde Park last Friday.
Representatives from various parts of
the county met Hon. John W. Titcomb,
who has the organization of "clubs
throughout Vermont in charge. After
dinner at the Inn, which was served by
Mine Host Savery in his usual excellent
maontr, the following committee was
chosen: C. H. Stearns, chairman, D. A.
Barrows, W. E. Tracy, Johnson; M. P.
Maurice, C. H. A. Stafford, C. H. Slocum,
Morrisville; A. A. Pike, A. H. Cheney,
Stowe ; L. C. Leavens, B. G. Reynolds,
Cambridge; A. L. Laraway, Waterville
C. S. Leach, R. S. Page, S. B. Waite.
Hyde Park. '
Cool Days Suggest Andes Heaters
Our fall stock of these popular, low priced, serviceable
Heaters has arrived and are ready to set up in your home.
We bought them last spring and bought, them right.
No advance in price from last year, although the whole
sale price has advanced sharply. Get yours early, for if we
have to re-order this fall, the price will be much higher.
ANDES RANGES
ALWAYS GIVE
SATISFACTION
We have a good stock of them. Visit us this fall on
your stove proposition. Don't send out of town for an in
ferior stove or range.
f,1. B. WHITE & GO.
Lamoille County's Largest House Furnishers
MORRISVILLE
VERMONT
Eighteenth Annual Corn Roast
Between sixty and seventy students of
Peoples Academy members of the Senior
and Junior classes and several of the
faculty, partook of the well-known hos
pitality of Mr. and Mrs. H. L. Delano at
their pleasant farm home on the Elmore
mountain road last Saturday night. It
was the eighteenth annual corn roast
and as usual came as a fitting opening of
the social events of the school year and
all present voted the occasion one long
to be remembered. As the party neared
the rocks at the foot of the mountain,
where the festivities were held, they were
pleasantly surprised to see the letters P.
shining forth from the darkness of the
mountain side. Upon closer examination
it was found to be the handiwork of their
host, who had carved the letters jack-o-lantern
style on the side of a mammoth
pumpkin, with a regular sized lantern in-
ide. A large bon-hre was built and all
the pleasure of a real corn and apple
roast were enjoyed, after which the com
pany returned to the house, where coflee
and doughnuts were served. A unani
mous Tote of thanks was given the
Delanos and the sentiment expressed that
these occasions continue, at least while
anyone present was able to attend.
The Hurdwiek hotel haschansed hands.
Mr. Billisgs, of Marsbfield. having
bought the house. Mr. and Mrs. W. H.
Sjiow have not yet decided just where
they will locate, as they have several
oflers in view.
HYDE PARK
School started ofT Monday with a very
good attendance.
Senator Page left this morning for a
few days' business at Washington.
. Rey. and Mrs'. Hamlin of Amherst,
Mass., are spending a few days in town.
S. B. Waite attended a meeting of the
Republican State Committee in Burling
ton today.
Mrs. Delia Gautbier has returned from
Loon Lake, N. Y., and is, at Hyde Park
for a short visit. ,.'
Work will be commenced Thursday on
the road leading from the covered bridge
to the Morristown line.
- There will be a special meeting of the
Home Culture Ctab at the home of Mrs.
E. E. Badger, Friday evening, Sept. 22,
at 8 o'clock.
Mrs. E. E. Gilson, who has been a vis
itor the past week at Moses Goodhue's
and T. R. Woodard's, went Saturday to
Hardwick for a brief stay before return
ing to her home in Sherbrooke, P. Q.
Allen's Western Photo-Plays are to be
given at the Opera House on Thursday
evening, hept. 2a. lney are brst-class
and lovers of the "movies" can depend
upon a good show.' "10c and 20c. Adv.
A delegation of twenty Rebekahs went
to Hardwick last evening where, at a
district meeting, they worked the degree,
receiving much praise for the excellency
in so doing. They were handsomely en
tertained by the Hardwick lodge.
T. C. Cheney, chairman of the Republi
can County Committee, and F.P.Collins,
chairman of tlie Democratic County
Committee, met with County Clerk
Waite yesterday and canvassed the vote
cast last week for county officers and
certified to the same. The vote was
practically as announced last week.
An informal reception in honor of the
entering class and the new teachers of
the L. C. A. will be held at the Cong'l
Church Thursday, Sept. 21, at 8 p. m.
Light refreshments will be served. An
entertainment program and general good
time is planned. A cordial invitation
is extended to all friends of the school.
No admission fee will be charged.
The new corner store will open for busi
ness on Saturday next. The store is well
stocked with new and fresh goods and
thejfirm gives assurance that the same
will be sold at reasonable prices. The
store is certainly a fine addition to our
village and we bespeak the firm a liberal
patronage. On the opening day every
customer purchasing a dollar or more of
goods will be given a loaf of bread.
Read their adv't on this page.
The village authorities ought to do
something with the crossings on Main
street. Autoists complain, and we think
very justly, about the jouncing they get
in going over the crossings, which a load
or two of gravel would eliminate. And
this reminds us that in crossing the rail
road bridge there is a bad drop on the
south side. Several people have received
severe bumps by the jouncing of their ma
chine over that' place. We understand.,
- :vnn A fv.il-.. - ttrht Iiav 4-hjit In
LUC lOliluau " " -
charge, are planning to repair the same.
Nelson B. Keeler, who is in New Eng.
land on a short leave of absence from the
Philippines, spent a couple of days in ,
town this week, greeting relatives and
old friends. "Bay" looks well and is do
ing finely as a civil engineer in the gov
ernment employ. It is ten years since he
was here and he took great pleasure in
looking over the old haunts of his boy
hood days, especially the "Wintergreen"
ana ine oia swimming uuic. -;
back to the Philippines early in October,
leaving his wife and children in Connec
ticut, where the five kiddies will attend
school.
Lamoille County Country Club
The "LamoiMe County Country Club"
has been incorporated with a capital
stock of $ 1,500. The directors are C. H
Stearns, H. M. Gordon, Johnson ; W. T.
Slayton, W. M. Sargent, Morrisville: A.
A. Pike, Stowe; H. C. Fisk, Florida; B
W. McFarland, Hyde Park. The officers
are: W. T. Slayton. President; C. H.
Stearns. Vice Pres.; B. W. McFarland,
Sec'y ; Miss Alice Page, Treas.
The Club has a perpetual lease of lands
on the Gavin Tyndall farm, just west of
Hyde Park village, said to be the finest
location for golf links in northern Ver
mont. The grounds will be put in order
at once and a club house erected and a
tennis court laid out next summer. Gol
players are very enthusiastic concerning
the movement and subscriptions to the
stock are being taken by residents in va
rious parts of the county as well as elsewhere.
THE HEW GORNER STORE I
HYDE PARK
RE-BUILT AND RE-FURNISHED THROUGHOUT
We will open the same on Scs.t.rclcay, St?it. 23cl9
with a lull line ot General Merchandise, iivervtmng Dran
new ; no old stuff, but all lresh from city markets.
A eood line of Ladies', Gents' and Children's Furnishings, Yankee
"? 1 . A ' II 1 1 I
Notions, &c. our NllU J department is wen siockcu wun
up-to-date Shoes lor the entire family.
The Grocery Doptirtment is complete with the
best assortment of Canned Goods, lea,l,onee, bugar, etc.
A nice line of Confectionery; a good stock of Cigars and Tobacco,
JWe intend to sell for cash and will make prices accordingly"
We have no order team, but will deliver telephone orders.
Butter, Eggs and Farm Produce taken in exchange.
Farmers take notice! A mixed car-load of Feed and Flour just in.
""NOTICE ! On our opening day we give to every customer purchasing a dollar
- . . r r r .. .1 tl 1 :
or more of goods a loai 01 oreaa. oitc hi can. 1 uun iur uusiui,
IIYDB PAHK. A. J. CLARK.
