W)t IBbtttittxj Hllll
??. r?mllT Anran 7<M?i lulir, B5.nl
No. 29,446. ~ WASHINGTON, D. C., TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 19, 1916-TWENTY PAGES. ?? ^ ONE CENT.
WEATHER.
Pair tonight and tomorrow; rising
temperature; gentle variable winds.
Temperature for twenty-four hours
ending 2 p.m.: Highest, _ 78, at 2:30
p.m. yesterday; lowest, 45, at 6 a.m.
today.
Full report on page 16.
CLOSING NEW YORK STOCKS PAGE 1?.
Driven Out of Fiorina and Re
ported to Be Evacuating
Monastir.
MAY OPEN UP THE WAY
FOR INVASION OF SERBIA
French Troops Took Fiorina by
Storm, Supported by Serbians
and Russians.
LONDON, September 19.?An
Athens dispatch to the Exchange
Telegraph Company says that in
formation received there indicates
that the Bulgars are beginning
the evacuation of Monastir. It
said that the Bulgarian archives
are being hastilv transported to
' Uskub.
May Open Boad Into Serbia.
The reported evacuation of Monastir,
In southwestern Serbia, is regarded as
one of the most important develop
ments of the Balkan campaign and as
creating a highly interesting military
, situation. Military observers point to
the possibility, in view of these devel
opments, that the main thrust of the
.-.llies' Saloniki army may be directed
from the Cerna valley, in which lie
Fiorina and Monastir. toward Prilep.
The Serbians are advancing also east/
of the Cerna and are reported by Paris
today to have withstood successfully
two Bulgarian counter attacks. There
nave been no sustained offensive move
ments in either the Vardar region or
! t of the Struma, the other possible
lines of advance for the allies in their
.Macedonian campaign. ^
BtUgars Took long Chance.
Dispatches reaching London describe
the operations which resulted in the
capture by the entente allied forces of
Fiorina. Macedonia. According to Reu
ters Saloniki correspondent, the Bul
garians, in extending their line so far
w0i?hhlimi,tHe/efti0n ,of Lake Ostrovo
with limited forces played a bold but
oangerous game. Success would have
K,? "dlth,e whole entente allied
line, but lack of success was bound to
Bulgarian1 righ^ ?*,. wh?
J^nsflr|iyrihr,dlfp.^h?^atsh<ca?sUe1d
b} the unexpected pressure of the
fllUE and Russians on their extreme
? 1 Serbians, profiting by
this indecision, attacked energetically*
on the 12th and 13th. At first the
Serbian infantry made little impression
on the well-intrenched Bulgarians, but
arter a strong bombardment with hieh
explosives the Serbians carried line
after line of trenches, compelling: the
Bulgarians to abandon the whole of
their advanced position along the
Malkanidze range, with thirty-two
guns, including two heavy guns.
Bight Wing Driven Back.
The whole Bulgarian right wing fell
back and the entente allies obtained
command of the ranges dominating the
Fiorina plain.
An Athens dispatch to the Exchange
Telegraph Company describes the later
phases of the concentration for the
attack on Fiorina, which was carried
out with the greatest secrecy. The
contingents were divided into three
parties In a converging movement to
connect at Fiorina. The Russians start
ed from Verria. southwest of Saloniki
and proceeded by forced marches
A French column was directed against
the same objective, while the Serbians
( in the region of Horovitz were ordered
to repel the Bulgarians from the
heights in the vicinity of Ekshisu and
Petroekou. The Bulgarians were deci
behind a"d fled' leavinR everything
The road to Monastir. the dispatch adds
now is free, and It Is safe to predict that
the entente allies will meet with little re
sistance in taking the town.
Counter Attacks in Vain.
PARIS. September 19.?The Bulgarians
on the Macedonian front have made two
counter attacks against the Serbians, but
gained no success, it was announced of
ficially here today.
The Bulgarians and Germans have not
attempted a counter action against the
French troops which captured Fiorina.
There is no change on the Struma front.
Fiorina was carried by assault by
French troops, according to a war office
Bulgarians are retiring
In disorder in the direction of Monastl*
the statement adds. Serbian troops^jio
?ffi &^o.8U?a ,n
COBB CONCEDES BATTING
TITLE TO TRIS SPEAKER
DETROIT, September 19. Tyrus
Cobb, for nine years the leading bats
man of the American League, today
conceded that Tris Speaker of the
Cleveland club would be the 1916
champion. Speaker now has a margin
cf nearly thirty points over Cobb ac
cording to unofficial averages. Cobb
said it Is a human impossib.lity for him
to try to cut down this ead and at
the same time to co-operate in team
?? *kL. .J? extent of his ability
Cobb i. individual efforts won two of
Detroit s recent victories.
MAT OMIT PRAYERS FOE JEWS.
Episcopalians Also May Bar Appeal,
for Turks and Infidels.
NFTW YORK. September 19.?.a pro
posal to omit from the prayer book of
Oie Protestant Episcopal Church pray
ers for Jews, Turks. Infidels and here
tics will be submlted to the Episcopal
triennial general convention to be held
in St. Louis in October. The proposed
changes are approved by the special
comroision on the revision of the prayer
book.
The proposal to eliminate the Jews
from Episcopal prayers is based on the
Cround that it is an insult to cli?!
them with Infidels and hertlcs. The our
pose in striking out the Turks from
the prayers is to avoid confusing them
with Mohammedans The prayer as nru
posed reads:
"Have mercy upon all who know Thee
not as revealed in the gospel of Thy
Will -Plunge Into Campaign on
His Arrival at Shadow
Lawn.
[GOES THROUGH CAPITAL
ON WAY FROM SOUTH
Mr. Wilson Will Lannch Attack* of
His Own to Offset Criticisms of
Republican Eival.
President Wilson passed
through here early today on his
way to Long Branch, N. J., from
Columbia, S. C., where he at
tended the funeral of his sister,
Mrs. Anne E. Howe, yesterday.
The train was due to arrive at
2:30 this afternoon two miles
from Shadow Lawn.
The President expects to plunge active
ly into campaign plans tomorrow and to
be busily engaged until election day.
Later this week he will see Vance Mc
Cormick, chairmStn of the democratic na
tional committee, and with him map out
a program of receptions to delegations at
Shadow Lawn and short speech-making
trips. His first speech away from Long
Branch will be at Baltimore next Monday.
Saturday he will speak to at least two
delegations at Shadow Lawn.
Will Launch Attacks.
From now on Mr. Wilson plans to make j
up for lost time and meet the criticisms i
of Charles E. Hughes, the republican j
presidential candidate, with attacks of
his own. Outside of his speech of ac
ceptance he has done no campaigning up
to the present- He has mapped out sev
eral points he wants to discuss, including
the settlement of the threatened railroad
strike, the legislative record of Uje ad
ministration, the Mexican problem*- and
European questions, the record of the re
publican party and subjects affecting
progressives.
Sees Boyhood Home.
COLUMBIA, S. C., September 19.?
After participating in the funeral of
Mrs. Howe the President yesterday aft
ernoon took an automobile ride around
Columbia, visiting relatives and the
place where he spent some of his boy
hood days. He .was accompanied by
Mrs. Wilson, Miss Margaret Wilson and
Dr. C. T. Grayson.
The President visited Mrs. James
Woodrow, an aunt, who welcomed him
as ?Tommy," and remarked to Mrs.
Wilson:
"Since he took to writing books he
calls himself Woodrow."
Mr. Wilson then visited the Colum
bia Theological Seminary, where his
father once taught, and was shown
the chair and room used by the elder
Mr. Wilson. He was told of a plan to
name a library planned by the semi
nary after his father. Afterward he and
Mrs. Wilson and Dr. Grayson walked
to the house planned and built by his
parents and in which he lived for sev
eral years.
There he talked with four small boys
who now live in the house. Dr Gray
son asked one of them if he expected
to be President. The boy said he did
not know.
"1 would not wish anything like that
on you," remarked the President.
Negro Put Under Arrest
When Trying to Board
President's Private Car
RALEIGH, N. C., September 19.?Wil
liam Mallette, a negro, was arrested
here early today by United States se
cret service agents aboard President
Wilson's special train after he had
threatened and attempted to board the
private car occupied -*y the President
and his party returning to Long Branch,
N. J., from Columbia, S. C.
The negro had purchased a ticket for
Washington, but missed a regular train
which left here shortly after midnight.
The President's special. following
made a brief stop at the Union station
and Mallette attempted to board it He
was taken In custody by the secret
service agents and delivered to the lo
cal police, who entered a charge of
drunkenness and disorderly conoduct
against him.
President to Speak Saturday.
NEW YORK, September 19. The
democratic national committee an
nounces that President Wilson will
make his first speech of the campaign
at Shadow I .awn next Saturday after
noon at 3 o'clock to the business men
of New Jersey. Members of all cham
bers of commerce and business organi
zations In the state have been Invited.
The President Intends, it is said, to dis
cuss fully the provisions of the eight
hour railroad' law.
HUGHES TO MEET FAIRBANKS.
Latter to Preside When Presidential
Nominee Makes Speech.
INDIANAPOLIS, Ind., September 19.
When Charles E. Hughes, republican
presidential candidate, speaks here Sat
urday night. Charles W. Fairbanks, the
candidate for Vice President on the
same ticket, will preside at the meeting
and act as chairman. It will be one
of the few ttmes. If not the only occa
sion of the campaign, that the repub
lican presidential and vice presidential
candidates will speak from the aame
platform at the same meeting.
W. H. H. Miller, who was Attorney
General of the United States under
President Harrison, will be honorary
chairman of the meeting, but probably
will not speak.
German Industries Prosper.
? BERLIN. September 18, via London,
September 19.?Complete returns for
the fiscal year of 1916 Indicate that
German Industries, ao far from suffer
ing from the war, appear to have pro
fited extensively and to have gained
materially over preceding years. The
war's beneflclal effects are especially
marked In the leather and the chemical
and dye industries, both of which have
enjoyed unprecedented prosperity from
war order*.
Federal Authorities in Chicago
May Postpone Temporarily
the Formal Hearing.
FIX BOND AT $25,OCX) EACH
FOR THREE PRINCIPALS
Bounding TTp the Men and Women
Who Composed Widespread
Swindling Syndicate.
CHICAGO. September 19.?Release on
bond of several members of the alleged
blackmail syndicate arrested by federal
agents here, and possible continuance of
their preliminary hearing, was 'In pros
pect today as witnesses from eastern
cities arrived in Chicago to testify against
the seven persons under arrest.
James Christian, one of the four men
arrested with three women in the raid
here Saturday night, was freed on bond
late last night. His bail was reduced
from $5,000 to $2,500, when officials ad
mitted they had little evidence to connect
him with the alleged fleecing of Mrs,
Reglna Klipper of Philadelphia, the prin
cipal witness against the defendants.
The bail of three other members of the
syndicate may be reduced today. The
alleged leaders, however, probably will b?
held under $25,000 bond each, unless
United States Commissioner Foote. before
whom they are to be arraigned, can be
prevailed upon by their counsel to re
duce the amount. These three are Helen
Evers. Edward ("Doc") Donahue and
Harry ("Slick") Hussell.
Mrs. Klipper Beaches Chicago.
Four members of the alleged band of
blackmailers may escape prosecution,
federal officials admitted today.
Mrs. Regina Klipper arrived under
guard of federal agents to appear
against the alleged blackmailers at the
hearing this afternoon. Hinton & Cla
baugh of the United States Departmerft
of Justice said hfc was confident Mrs.
Klipper would identify Edward Dona
hue. Henry Russell and Mrs. Helen
Evers as directors of the organization.
"The case against the others under ar
rest," Clabaugh said, "is doubtful. I
am satisfied, however, with our case
against the first three."
Mrs. Klipper to Give Details.
Mrs. Klipper is expected to tell the full
details of her alleged swindling by the
gang and her alleged abduction to Mon
treal. federal officials said.
The story of the blackmailing of the
Philadelphia woman involves Frank
Crocker, a member of the band, who is
alleged to have fleeced her. quarreled with
his confederates over a division of the
sDoils and then turned state's evidence
against them. Crocker is to be given
immunity. . .
Mrs Klipper, a divorcee, with three
small children, met Crocker in a New
York hotel while there on a buying trip
for a Philadelphia concern. She and
Crocker, according to the confession
Crocker is said to have made to federal
officials, went to an apartment after a
dinner and evening at a theater.
Impersonated U. S. O&cers.
Shortly after midnight, according to the
confession. Edward Donahue, William
Butler and George Irwin knocked at the
door All wore badges of the government
secret service. A bogus warrant was pro
duced by them for the arrest of the couple
for violation of the Mann act.
Crocker, affecting surprise and indigna
tion, wrote out a check for $5,000.
"There doesn't seem any way out of
it except for both of us to kick in," was
the advice he gave Mrs. Klipper. She ac
I CewhenUMrs. Klipper threatened to tell
1 her story to federal authorities members
?of the band kidnaped her, according to
i .Avommpnt charges, and spirited her
l away to ^ hotel in Montreal. There she
was held prisoner for six months.
The story of Crocker's adventure with
Mr? Klipper is in the files of .Commis
sioner Lewis Masons court, before
which Crocker testified at a hearing
June 7.
Shrink From Publicity.
The federal authorities here. It was
learned today, were besieged yesterday
by several wealthy men and women, who
claimed to have been victims of the syn
dicate and who pleaded that their names
be kept out of the case. They were given
to understand, it is said, that no names
would ? revealed unless it was necessary
In order to obtain convictions.
The secrets developed by a mass of
letters photographs and other Instru
ment? of blackmail, wld to have been
found In the apartment where the gang
was arrested will not be revealed, fed
ewh?"Cfaedertid authorities here were
prepared to arraign for a prelim nary
hearing seven members of the alleged
<?n?r who used the Mann act as their
fhief weapon, detectives fortified with
Information obtained from two alleged
members of the gang who confessed,
Sade arrests In other cities and spread
a dragnet for H. C. Woodward, Bought
L director-in-chief of the syndicate
Hinton G. Clabaugh of the United
States Department of Justice declared
he had sufficient evidence to convict
the gang without exposing the names
of some of their wealthy victims. It
was understood that none of the names
of the victims would be disclosed at
the preliminary hearing. These vic
tims, principally wealthy men whose
flirtations with pretty women led them
Into traps from which they escaped
only on payment of large sums, will be
shielded from publicity except as a last
resort. It is said.
Expects Removal to Philadelphia.
The evidence secured In two cases,
already generally known, authorities
said, together with a mass of Incrimi
nating evidence found in the raid on
the apartment where the seven were
arrested, will be presented to the fed
eral commissioner. Clabaugh expects
the seven will be ordered removed to
Philadelphia for trial without a stub
born resistance before the commls
8i?Deevelopments In the case reported to
Clabaugh Included the "rest at New
York today of Frank Crocker, alleged
farmer member of the gang, who Is said
fn hftve confessed to a part In the swin
dling of Mrs. Regina Klipper of Phil&del
?.hia 2nd the afrest at Philadelphia of
William Butler, held there in connection
with in alleged blackmail plot against the
2?? Mrs. Susan G. 8. Wlnpenny.
fTabaugh also revealed the source of
the information that led to the raid. He
iald that Dick Barrett and Edward J.
Thompson, two members of the syndicate
had i?lif<?< They probably wUl be
(lw Their revelations, said
Clabaugh, were replete with stories of
shrewd blackmail, new and clever race
track swindles and other ruses by which
members of the gang, beautiful women
and debonair, handsome men, bled their
victims.
"Women Scout the Charges.
The men refused to talk, but the wom
en scouted the charges.
Mrs. Helen Evers, said by federal
authorities to have been used as a
"lure" in the bogus Mann act cases,
stamped her feet and said there is not
a word of truth In the charges.
"Why, I never smoked opium in my
life," she said. Indignantly, denying that
an opium outfit was found in her room.
Mrs. Frances Chapman said nothing.
Mrs. Evers said J^rs. Chapman's arrest
was an outrage?that she was just
visiting at the apartment.
Seeking- Evidence in Philadelphia.
PHILADELPHIA. September 39.?
Agents of the Department of Justice
have been busy here gathering further
evidence against the members of the
alleged blackmailing band arrested in
Chicago Saturday, and have served a
warrant on Willmm Butler, alias Butts,
who, federal authorities say, is one of
the ringleaders of the syndicate. Other
arrests are expected, and in the mean
time the government officers here are
withholding details of the .operations
of the alleged blackmailers in the east
ern part of the country.
Butler was arrested here last January
on a charge of conspiracy and imper
sonating a United States marshal in
attempting to extort money from Mrs.
Susan G. S. Winpenny in order to pro
tect a son from prosecution .for a sup
posed escapade In Atlantic City. Butler
was held in heavy bail and was to have
been brought to trial at the present
term of the federal district court. Mrs.
Winpenny died several weeks ago and
in consequence the case is held in abey
ance.
KAISER MOVES GREAT
GENERAL STAFF EAST
Von Hindenburg Said to Think First
Decisive Battles Will Be
Fought There.
LONDON, September It, 12:50 p.m.?
^The Wireless Press today gave out a
teem dispatch quoting the Suddeutsche
Zeitung to the effect that the German
great general staff had moved from the
western to the eastern front.
Directs All Campaigns.
The great German headquarters,
which directs operations on all fronts,
and at which the emperor and chief of
staff spend much of their time, was in
Belgium in the early weeks of the
war, and subsequently was moved to
northern France. In the spring of 1915
it was in a town near Lille. According
to unofficial reports, it was transferred
later to a small village farther east.
Since the appointment of Field Mar
shal von Hindenburg as chief of staff,
it has been reported that he desired to
leave in France and Belgium sufficient |
men to hold the line and devote his i
energies to the east, for he is credited !
with the belief that it is on this front
that the first conclusive victories must
be won.
Conference of Allies.
Last week he returned to Prance
from the eastern front. It waa re
ported also that Emperor William,
Chancellor von Bethmann-Hollwegr and
representatives of Austria-Hungary.
Bulgaria and Turkey were at the east
ern headquarters for a conference
which was to decide the shaping of
the campaign In the east.
Belgian Miners Threaten Strike.
AMSTEBPAM. via London. September
19. The Maastricht lies Nouvellea says
a general strike of miners throughout
the Belgian coal fields is In progress.
The miners are asking for an Increase,
In wages commensurate with the high
price of food.
!
Chief Clerk Curtis Administers
Oath in Secretary Dan
iels' Office.
TO WATCH TARGET WORK
OFF THE VIRGINIA'CAPES
Thomas A. Edison Visits Mount Ver
non, Plants Tree Near Tomb and
Inspects Electric Wiring.
Twenty-four of America's foremost
scientists, comprising the civilian navy
consulting: board, headed by Thomas A.
Edison, took the oath of allegiance to
the United States today as officers of
the federal government. The oath was
administered by Chief Clerk Curtis in
the office of Secretary Daniels as the
preliminary move to organization of
the board under the new law giving it
a legalized status.
This afternoon the board members
were taken on board the naval steamer
Dolphin to witness target practice ma
neuvers of the Atlantic fleet, assembled
off the Virginia capes.
Secretary Daniels welcomed the sci
entists into the federal service and
predicted that their enlistment would
do much to restore American prestige
upon the seas and assure the "glorious
future of our navy and our country."
Reviews Europe's War Problems.
He reviewed the problem which
faced Europe at the beinnlng of the
war. One of the chief difficulties which
Europe had in preparing for the strug
gle, the Secretary said, was the need
of co-operation, study and research be
tween civilian and naval experts, en
gineers and scientists.
"When it seemed wise to call the
civilian scientists to aid In our naval
preparedness," the Secretary continued,
"I appealed to Mr. Thomas A. Edison to
lend his advice. The result is the or
ganization which today become? a le
galized part of the navy. i
"You have already given a ne^ vision
of American willingness to-put service
to country above private interest. Your
unselfish and invaluable aid in the
larger naval program has heartened all
true Americans. You have stimulated
inventive activity, taken the first step
in industrial preparedness, and I con
gratulate myself that I have been priv
ileged to associate with you in what I
believe the future will regard epoch
making days. What you have already
done is but an earnest of the far-reach
ing and lasting contribution you will
make to national defense, now that each
member of the board is recognized by
the law as an officer In the American
navy.
"Will Restore American Prestige."
"I welcome vou Into this company of
honorable traditions and patriotic
achievement. Your coming strength
ens the navy today and gives promise
of the greater things that lie before
us. The new naval bill, to which your
organization gave assistance, will once
more restore American prestige on the
seas. In the great problems to be
solved naval experts and civilian ex- j
pert, will "nd a fle'd calling for all
their research and all their ability. X
am an optimist and believe your en
listment will more than justify the op
timism we all share of the glorious fu
ture of our navy and our country."
Before Mr. Edison arrived at the Navy
Department for the meeting he went
I to Mount V.rnon, made a personal In
spection of the old frame mansion and
planted an ?lm tre. near Washington's
.: '-J,i'f. -. -*.-?i-L.-j*,%? ?
tomb. Mr. Edison was asked to Inspect
the electrical wiring of the house, to
assure it against fire, which he did
pronouncing it safe from any possibil
ity of destruction by faulty lnstalla
PABT of cargo missing.
British Steamer Reports 1,000 Pack
ages Confiscated at Honpkong.
MVNILA. September 19?The British
steamer Aymerlc, from New York July
8. arrived here today with approxi
mately 1,000 parages of her Manila
cargo missing. The packages were con
fiscated at Hongkong. There will be a
hearing today to decide as to the cul
pability of the captain In the seisure
of the cargo and to discuss the ques
tion of imposing a fine on him.
A dispatch from Manila September 3
said the Aymerlc had been detained at
Hongkong and'that 1,200 packages of
her cargo had been removed.
India's Great Poet Arrives in U. S.
SEATTLE, Wash., September 19 sjr
Rablndra Nath Tagore, the poet of In
dia, who was awarded the Nobel prize
for literature and was knighted by the
King of England in 1913, is in Seattle
today, having arrived from the orient
on the steamship Canada Maru last
[night for a tour of the United States
weeks r6m n ln this country several";
MAYOR TRIES 10 AVER!
NEW YORK, September 19.?A defi
nite plan for bringing about an amica
ble settlement of the city's transit
strike, now nearing the close of its sec
ond week, was prepared but not made
public today by a "committee of seven "
representing the business Interests, In
co-opt ration with Mayor MItchel.
Leaving the mayor's office after a
conference lasting several hours, the
committee arranged to meet Theodore
P. Shonts, president of the Interborough
Rapid Transit Company, later In the
day. On the attitude of Mr. Shonts to
ward the proposed setlement, it was
stated on behalf of the committee de
pended the next step. If the traction
official's answer was favorable it was
suggested the plan would be placed be
fore the striking employes. Meanwhile
'SfvurBr^rauftu^ ? ~
unRUe^e!rSVnnerufpr^L?r,ro%Uan?^S
tlons to strike if settlement wfth the
transit companies were not forthcom
The unions asked to take this action
Included 200.000 members of the United
' 8,500 stationary engl
20 000 suhw/^f'.ri'000 lonKShoremfn.
JU.000 subway builders, 1,200 master.
av"4,Pr?' 20,000 teamsters,"
Jhlnl.Vf boatmen and 15.000 ma
TrsLdes^the Ion h' Un'ted Hebrew
Would Negotiate With Mayor.
No plan has been proposed for the
consideration of the mayor and the
business men's committee. President
Shonts of the Interborough Rapid Tran
sit Company said It seemed absurd to
negotiate further, and that the com
pany would have no further dealings
with the carmen's union, but was will
ing to consider any proposition from
the mayor.
The street railway strike was extend.*
to Queens county early today when
ductors and mtormen of the New
and Queen* County railroad went of,7
ln protest against the use of their mem
ben to operate cars and break the
ln Manhattan. Union leaders aasartnri
that fourteen street car lines ln Uu?!n.
were tied up. but the company- claimed
that 50 per cent of Its cars ^
??fvice and that not more 300 men hid
left their plates. Thousands of QueiSS
'fluents who work in Manhattant^v
eled by ferry and automobile.
EXTENDS HISPUA
FOR ARMOR PLAN
P. T. Moran Cites Further
Reasons Why U. S. Concern
Should Be Located Here.
SCHEDULE OF INQUIRIES
ASKED OF MR. DANIELS
Would Enable Chamber of Commerce
to Reply in Regard to Features
Desired by Navy Department.
Opportunity to present detailed arru
merits why the federal armor plate
plant should be located tn the Dis
trict of Columbia Is requested in a let
ter received today by Secretary Jo
sephus Daniels of the Navy Department
from President P. T. Moran of the
Washington Chamber of Commerce. In
this letter Mr. Moran asks that a
schedule of Inquiries regarding: features
desired by the department In. assign
ing the location of this plant b? sub
mitted to the local Chamber of Com
merce, in order that the superior ad
vantages of Washington may be prop
erly emphasized.
That Washington during recent years
Aas Remonstrated suprising manufac
tured growth is urged in this letter
as illustrating the opportunities in the
field of manufacture here. To illus
trate this Mr. Moran offers to compile
statistics covering the experiences of
the Washington Steel and Ordnapce
Company as having a direct bearing
on the application for the federal ar
mor plate plant location.
The matter of cost and diversibility
of accessible markets is suggested as
a first consideration in the selection of
the site, according to Mr. Moran's let
ter, and he points out that Washington
is the one deep-water point on the At
lantic coast most accessible to coal,
limestone and pig iron deposits and
markets.
Letter to Secretary Daniels.
His letter to Secretary Daniels. In
part, is as follows:
"I have the honor to hand you. In ac
cordance with your kind permission,
following my oral presentation of the
subject, some suggestions relating to
the availability of the city of Washinton
as a location for the proposed govern
ment armor plant, as the expression on
the subject of the Washington Cham
ber of Commerce.
"While the gentlemen whom I had
the honor to represent feel positively
that the site tendered in the National
Capital has a preponderance of points
in its favor, they realize that their
claims must and ought to be tested by
investigation and comparison with the
advantages offered by other locations.
"The main purpose of this communi
cation is. therefore, to ask that an op
portunity be given to the Chamber of
Commerce of Washington to collate
and furnish detailed information on the
points deemed essential to a favorable
consideration.
"Among these points, we assume,
would be the matter of cost of n?a"
terials laid down In Washington. In
volving as well the matter of supply
and a diversity of accessible markets.
This involves, also questions or trans
portation by rail and water which, ow
ing to changing conditions, cannot be
kept instantly available, but must be
collated to meet each individual case.
Requests Schedule of Inquiries.
"It is among the particular functions
of the Chamber of Commerce to se
cure arrange and furnish such infor
mation in behalf of the city's growth
| and progress, and we trust that you
I will direct that a schedule of inquiries
| be formulated upon which we may ub
j mlt full Information.
! -Further, the Washington Chamber
I o*Commerce urges that the natural ad
! vantages of Washington as a location
for manufactories and for a plant of
this sort shall not be minimized be
cause of the impression that Wash
neton is not a manufacturing city.
As a matter of fact. In its growth in
manufacturing. In new plants estab
lishe-J and in increase of established
plants in the past few years Wash
inton has shown a surprising manufac
turing growth and one that empha
sises the existence of great natural
advantages in this J,ne\ ^ 6 ""in"*!
that the Question of location should be
decided by a comparison of advantages,
point by point, between the locations
offered, and that all factors should be
given consideration and not mere y
whether cognate industries flourish In
the section considered.
"On the question of advantages for the
location of the armor plate in Wash
ington, we present, among other mat
ters already called to your attention,
the following:
Close to Coal Deposits.
"Washington Is the deep water point
on the Atlantlo eoast nearest to coal
and limestone deposits. It Is less than
fifty miles to the limestone deposits of
the Harpers Ferry region, and only 150
miles to the Cumberland coal deposits,
with both of which Washington has
both rail and water connection.
"Washington Is in direct contact with
all the pig iron markets of the east and
south, and so placed midway between
them that full advantage may be taken
of favorable conditions In any of them.
"We especially desire to present to
you the facta in detail with regard to
capacity for handling materials and
products by rail and water in any quan
tity and without delays, owing to the
choice of communication to the site pro
posed and also to the fact that It Is
directly connected by a double-track
railroad, used for freight exclusively,
with the great assembling and distrib
uting yard at Benning.
"We would like time to secure an op
portunity to present facts which the
experience of the Washington Steel
and Ordnance Company would furnish
and which are especially applicable to
the present consideration."
Calls Special Meeting of Board.
President P. T. Moran of the Cham
ber of Commerce this afternoon called
a special meeting of "the board of dl
,?ctors of the chamber for Thursday
T 12-16 P m., to consider the proposl
tinn of having the government estab
lish its armor plant here.
American Firm to Get S. R. Contract
cat,EXICO. Cal., September 1??Col.
? ,eban Cantu. military governor of
t wer California, confirmed today a re
t that he would build a railroad soon
f?oro Mexican, across the border from
H.re to San Felipe, on the Gulf of Cali
fornia. Government funds will be used
to construct the road, he stated, and the
contract will be awarded to am Ameri
can firm*
GERMAN OFFENSIVE
IN THE CHAMPAGNE
Paris Reports That Five Sue
cessive Attacks Were Re
pulsed by Russian Troops.
RAINY WEATHER CHECKS
FIGHTING ON THE SOMME
0
Berlin Believes the Drive in North
ern France Hag About Exh&uted
Strength of British.
PARIS, September 19, ia:jo
p.m.?The Crermans took the of
fensive in Champagne last night,
making five successive attacks on
the Russian troops there. Today's
official report says that each time
they were checked by the Russian
machine gun and artillery fire.
The German attack in Cham
pagne was made in the sector be
tween Souain and Somme-Py.
On the Somme front operations
were hindered by bad weather.
Official French Report.
The text of the communication fol
lows:
"On the Somme front operations were
interrupted by the bad weather, but
during the night we made some prog
ress east of Berny, taking a number of
prisoners.
"A bombardment last night by ttao
enemy upon our positions west and
east of the road between Souain and
Somme-Py reached Its height in the
evening and was followed by several
German attacks, particularly along the
Russian sector. Here five successive
onslaughts were delivered. Everywhere
our curtain of Are and the Are of our
machine guns checked the enemy,
whose losses were serious. Some pris
oners remained in our hands.
"On the left bank of the River Mease
a German surprise attack upon one of
our minor posts north of Davocourt
and two counter attacks upon the
trenches on the southern slope of Le
Mort Homme, occupied by us yester
day, resulted in complete failure.*'
Bad Weather Halts Offensive.
LONDON, September 19.?Bad weather
has set in along the Somme front in
northern France and the Anglo-French
offensive has halted. Both London and
Paris report a cessation of the heavy
attacks by the British and French,
which, during the last few days, have
won them many square miles of new
ground, carried the British to within
four miles of Bapaume, virtually pock
eted Combles and seriously weakened
the hold of the Germans on Peronnb
and Chaulnes.
"Heavy and continuous rain has
fallen during the last twenty-four
hours," says today's official account o*
operations on the Franco-Belgian front.
"The general situation is unchanged."
"In the neighborhool of Richebourg
L'Aouve (northwest of La Bassee), we
entered the enemy's trenches at three
places. capturing prisoners and a
machine gun and inflicting many cas
ualties. Our casualties were very
slight.
"Since last night's report five more
of our aeroplanes have failed to re
turn."
Think British Weakening.
BERLIN. September 18. via London*
September 19.?The mass attack by the
British along the Somme front on Fri
day was, according to advices reaching
here, apparently carried out only by
means of the concentration of the en
tire Britisr.^forces. The Germans de
clare that mere is hardly a fresh Brit
ish division left.
The Germans, nevertheless, are not at
all disposed to give way to any illusion
that the British army has been com
pletely weakened, although it is as
serted In official quarters that the latest
battle has served to convince them once
again that Germany's chief opponent in
the west is France.
On Sunday, while the Germans were
making counter attacks and, with
other things, regaining a portion of the
lost village of Martinpuich, both the
British and French continued their ef
forts at various points along the line,
particularly the British, between Thiep
val and Combles.
Brought to a Standstill.
These efforts, it is announced wore
brought to a standstill. The French
concentrated their efforts at Bouoh
avesnes, but were thrown back.
The belief is held in Berlin that evon
if Germany's opponents have not beoa
completely weakened, a continuance of
the attacks with their former Intensity
is an impossibility because the Anglo
French offensive, especially that of last
week, has cost them so heavy.
Reports from the front reiterate that,
little as the German troops like to re
treat, this policy is preferred, if there
by lives can be saved at the expense of
comparatively unimportant territory.
Two Days of Somme Battle
Enabled British to Strike
Telling Blows at Germans
LONDON, September 19.?A Boitish
official communication gives a detailed
account of the fighting in the Somme
region of France of September 15-16.
It says the attack was launched at
6:20 a.m. of the 16 th on the front
from the Leuxe wood to I'ozieres. The
enemy's position consisted of a treble
line of entrenchments, connected by
strong subsidiary trenches. In addi
tion. the enemy was holding some ad
vanced positions, with machine guns
In trenches, works and shell holes be
hind tnese fortifications, and at a dis
tance of some 7,000 yards from th.
British front had recently constructed
wired a fourth mine line of trench,
and wired a fourth mine line of
trenches in front of the Le Translov.
Bapaume road.
"Supported by more than a thousand
euns of all calibers, the hostile de
fense was formidable." says the state
ment "Punctually our infantry, ac
companied by heavy armored car*
moved forward to th. assault elow
under cover of our field artillery and
barrage.
German lines Carried.
"Th. front of th. German lin. warn
carried everywhere except at two
polnta, namely, on the high ground be
I
