THE WEATHER FORECAST.
Fair to-day and to-morrow; rising tenv
perature to-morrow; west winds.
Highest temperature yesterday, 71 j lowest, 56
detailed weather, mall and marine reports on page 8.
VOL. LXXXIV. NO. 19.
44-
-NEW YORK, TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 19, 1916. Copyright, 191C, bi the Sun Printing and Publithtng Association.
ONE CENT
In flreater New York,
Jtnej City and Newark.
l;Lettlier
TWO CKNTS.
1 XTTT IT SHINES FOK ALL
30 UNION HEADS
WILL FIX STRIKE
DATE ON FRIDAY
JInyor Mitchel and Oscai'
Straits Confer to Avert
General "Walkout.
MEET BUSINESS MEN
AND WORKERS TO-DAY
Tight for Unionism!"
Slogan to Enlist 500,000
in Struggle.
SEW TERMS OF VEACE
FOR TRACTION HEADS
Queens Street Car Men Quit
Because of Aid to In
terborough. Raising the battle cry of ''Fight for
Unionism" lenders of organized labor,
who uro striving for victory for the
striking carmen, voted yesterday to
call a general strlko of practically all
unions In New York nnd vicinity un
less the efforts of JInyor Mltchol and
Chairman Straus of the Public Service
Commission to adjust the Issues In the
transit situation nro successful by
Thursday. They set Friday ns the
day on which they will tlx tho date for
union workers to leave their respective
ccupatlons.
Gathered In tho Hotel Continental
moro than thirty representatives of
labor organizations in greater New
VorK unanimously udupU-d ii-solutlon.;
calling on the locals to voto n sym
pathy strlko In lelialf of tho carmen,
ihey aim not only to paralyze nil pas
senger irattie und shipping lint nlso nil
industries. Their purpose Is to call
nut between 500.000 und 730,000 wear
ers of the union button.
Qarcna Urars Declare Strike.
Employees of the New York and
Queens County Hallway Company de
clared u strike last hlght to take lm
mediate effect.
'resident Daniel T. Haley of the
union sold that tho men were Impelled I
to quit because tho company had vlo
latej Its agreement In either sending '
levenly-llve ntotonnen to work for the ,
Interborough In Manhattan or else giv-.
lt.i them leavo of ubceneo to do It. !
Fourteen lines and 400 curs will bo uf-.
Jeete.1 by the walkout.
The strlko vote was unanimous und I
President Haley said at tho meeting'
:ht the service yesterday In Queens!
nai tnt'erablo because of the seventy-1
. . .. .... ...i in Vmi' V.rb tit ,
a.,- una ..in. v.i-ii; pchi v .-.v .. . -
mirk ns strike breakers. At midnight
the men in charge uf cars were running
them Into tho barns.
I.acli Local IIb Itluht to Deride.
.1 iii-t what tho general strike, call
m-Miis w.i.i not clearly ileilned by the
u lion le id.-rs at tho Continental taht
i '4lu. The men at the conference trp-
nie,l. for the most pari, central
uiU"r bodies and labor organizations not
.ivlng lopreeentutlons In thoi. bodies.
Then: l.i nothing binding on the various
ln'-iilh to obey this call, and every local
Las the right to decide independently If
its member., shall stop work.
Tile explanation was given that it the
Mayor and Chairman Straus full in their
unciu-d plans to settle the carmen's con
troversy the union leaders will name a
day JVr u general strike: that lmmc
dUtely thereafter every local will bo
culled 111 extraordinary session to vote.
I'nlon leaders asserted, however, that
forr.e locals have already voted favorably
f r a sympathy strike, and that the dele
Sates p, tho Hotel Continental confer-
ivo, having hounded the sentiment In
tueir respcctlvo organizations, were con
talent all the locals would agree to stop
"rk at un appointed hour.
Tho reason set forth by tho leaders for
their optimism was that President Then
'iorc I'. Shonts of the lnterborough ltapld
Transit Company and of the New York
Hallways Company had announced that
h would crush unionism on tlm transit
line., and that President Frederick W.
WidtrldKR had vowed that not a member
ff the carmen's union will ben-after bo
aiplojed un the Third Avenue system.
I'ight In lie Waged on One issue.
Tiny tab! that the triutlun Interests
b?'l thrown down the gauntlet not ulono
to the carmen's union, but to every union
I', tli'i city, and that tho tight will be
:snl hereafter on that issue alone.
The foregoing Is a summary of the
II'. .011 attitude at tho Hotel Continental.
How far tho lenders can go in putting
i ir plan into effect lemnlns to be seen.
J'liri'- ,ilH a formidable m ray nf or-t-'-imzat!oi.a
repiet-cnted at the confer-
1 1.10. I
Among the organizations whoso dele
gates i.ied for tho strlko call are tho
C. titrai Federated Labor Union of Muli
haitan, the Central Federated Union of
nio'ikljn, tho United Hebiew Trades,
repiesentlng 200,000 members; Interna
tional Hrolherhood of Htatlonary Fire
n n, cmnvosed of ,O0O ; International
1 ii ion of Hleiini and Operating Kngl
t'trs, 1,500 ; International I.oiigshore-iiu-ii'm
Asioi-latlon. liR.iiOO; Kubuuy and
riii,m t'oiistrueilon Intel national Union,
"!); American Association of- Mas
Mains nnd Pilots. 1,-lliu; House
Mleoeih and Mun Association, Inter
ii'tlo'ial Ilrotherhood of Teamsters,
.'tablemen nnd Chauffeurs, 20,000 ; Tide
water Moatineii, H.nOO; International As.
n-ilatloii of Machinists, 1D.U00. .
Labor Lenders Visit Mayor.
Tim resolution to Issue a itrlke rail
a voted In tbc uflernooii following n
i by labor lenders to City Hall, where
'l complained to Mayor Mltchr) of ills
Miiiinatious by tho police against
i erii, and they asked him to make
sii'abcr effort to set tin the carmen's
Ui ' ,.. Tliey told lilm u movement for
Continued on i-'ourln Vag.
mJLS2S!
oi tLit ozena one men
German Shipping Officials
Leave New London on
Persistent Quest.
New London-, Conn., Sept. 18. Undls
eouraged by their disappointment of yes
Icrday, when an L boat of ihe United
.States navy was reported ns the Inconi
Iiir llremen or Dcutschland. the offlclala
of Ihe hastern For.wardlng Company are
continuing their prepaiatlons for the ar
rival of the unexpected unilcrseas
freighter.
Their chartered tug, the T. A. Scott.
Jr., was out all day scouting for the
vessel. It returned this evening only
to depart again In a hurry at 8 o'clock
to-night with it number of the com
pany's otllclata aboard.
Newspaper men believe tho German
shipping men know what they are doing.
o the correspondent havo chartered a
power boat and nro following tho move
men's of thu lug. Pliotogiaphers. with
.mother boat, nro awaiting daylight be
fore starting out.
PRIMARY POLLS TO
OPEN TO-DAY AT 3
Every Man Enrolled on Party
List Last Fall Is En
titled to Vote.
This Is primary election day through
out tho State of New York. The pur
pose Is to nominate candidates for all
tho olllces to bo tilled ut the general
election on November 7, these nomina
tions, under tho law passed two ears
ago. being now n.ndo by' the voters
directly instead of through the agency
of party conventions' as formerly.
In this city the iolls will open at 3
P. M. and closo at 3 P. M. Outside the
city tlio j.olls will open ut 7 A. M. and
close at 9 P. M. IlepubllcanS. as mem
bers of tho party which polled tho most
votes In the last Slate election,, will vote
by themselves In tho different election
dltrlcts. Democrats, Progressives and
members of the other parties ulll use the
same polling places.
Uvcry man who when he lcglstercd
last fall slgnrd an enrolment blank sig
nifying the parly of his choice Is en
titled to .ote to-day at that party's
primary. Merely to hae registered or
voted for a party's candidates at the last
general election, liowever, does not. carr
with It the right to vote 111 the sue
ccedlng primary of that party. A voter's
uainu must bu on the enrolment lUt
made up last fall In order to ote.
Unrolment ns tho law regurds It Is a
separate act fiom rcglsttutlon entirely
optional with the voter. In tho whole
State, 73M31 Republicans enrolled last
fall 1o vntn nt tn.iluv'rf ttrluiurv. sT,l.H?t
Democrats. 45.20S Progressive-, 23, 32J-f
SoclalMs, 20.JI Prohibitionists und
i.m Independence Leaguers.
Thero wilP be 2.077 polling places
used for to-day's election. 181 of them
being school buildings.
Tho olllces fcr which nomlnntloni will
bo made Include ull tho Stab olllces.
United States Senator, a Justice of
the Court of Appeal, and Auc-clato
Justice, Justices of tho Supreme Court.
Judge of Ocner.il Sessions, President of
the Hoard of Aldermen and nicmtx-r-i of
CoiiKrcs. State, Senate and A-i-i-.-mbly.
Tho election to-day will make a
htivy draft on the police fore?, al
ready overtaxed by tho strike. 'Iheie.
vlll bo 3,000 policemen detailed for
primary duty. This will leavi only
one nmn Instead of two on elevated
and subway trains and surface lars.
The law also gives every policeman two
hours off to vote. s
THIS FISH STORY A BffiD.
Angler'- Friend. Won't SrrallotT
Yarn That Itooater Took Hall.
Passaic. N. J., Sept. IS, Fred I.aux
of Uloomlleld Is u faithful church mem-1
ber who hitherto has borne un excellent
leputatloii, nnd after all, It could have
happened. So It Is irally unfair for bis
friends to shun him, as they do, since
he first told the story of his llshlug trip
this morning.
Tho story ;
"I didn't have a bllo all the time I
was at tho lake. Upturning, I met some
friends along the road und slopped to
talk. I leaned my rod ag-ilnst a tree.
When I was leady tu go on. I picked It
up and felt n tug ut the other end. The
reel began to sing und considerable Hue
ran out. I followed the line, and there.
uiton -my honor gcr.iic-iren, was a mi
white roostc- who had swallowed the I
bait and incidentally tlio hook. U cost 1
mo SI. &0 for tho rooster, and do you1
I4110W
Hut no one stayed to hear the ret
of it.
RAIN CAUSES TAXI FAMINE.
Urnadnny l-'eela Trdcllon Mrlkr
M-rlously for First Time.
I,akt night wad the flrat tlmo Uroart
v.av ha., felt tho traction strike
seriously. It was due to tho rain. When
tho crowds came pouring out of the
tb. atres nnd met tho rain, pouting from
tho rky they suddenly realized thut
theru were no surfaco curs ready to
take tin in to liomes In tho city or to
trains for the suburbs.
Consequently tuxlfabs were In great
demand so heavy a demand, In fact,
that a taxi famine occurred, and thou
sands had to wait In sloru entrances
In tho hope that tho rain would stop.
Small Ikivs worn lubfcldlztd to hold up
'Irlvers of private eats and try to on-
gago mem io iaKO waning uoiiicgoers
to tho Pennsylvania or New York Cen
tral stations. After tho downpour had
continued fur an hour muny women
decided to trail their evening finery
through tho wet In order to wnlk to
the notions under their own power.
HOME TO FIND HUSBAND DEAD.
Frank M. Sinn ton lliplre.l When
Wife Was In Mldoeeiia.
Mrs. Knthryn M, Stanton, jn-ldow of
Frank McMillan Stanton of tho Shore
road, Whltstone, who died ut his homo
last Tuesday, arrived from llnglund on
board tho Tuscuula yesterday. Just In
tlmo to attend tho funeral services. Un
til she was met ou tho pier by J. It. Stan
ton, n brother of her Into husband, und
by Dr. .1. WMo-jrc, tho family physician,
sho was not' cognizant of her hiiFbund'H
death. Mrs. Stanton fainted when told
the uuws anil had to ho assisted home,
Sho left for Kngland eight weeks ago,
whero sho Intereated tho llrltlsh Govern
ment In a powderless and noiseless mis
sllu thrower, tho Invention of a poor
American.
BLAKELOCK'S FOES
.
MMM GUARDIAN
Mrs. Van Itcnssclacr Adams
Says She's Been Threat
ened With Death.
CERTAIN OP CONSPIRACY
Artist's Protector Takes Him
Shopping nnd Ho Prome
nades Fifth Avenue.
Mrs. Van Itenssclaer Adams, his legal
guardian, admitted last night that she
took Ilalph Albert Dial-clock, tho noted
artist, from the I.ynwooJ I.odgs tanl
tarlum In Kngltwood to this Stato be
cause sho had received Information that
the same powerful but unidentified In
ftuences which tried to keen him In the '
Mlddlctowu asvlum for the Insane were
. . , -.
going to attempt to have lilm committed
In New Jersey.
Mm. Adams said furthermore that
next Wednesday In the office of John A.
Agar, her attorney, she will make pub
lic the namo of a man who dirt aroused
her suspicions of the fight which Is be
Ing waged to keep the artist In an asy
lum.
A statement made by Dr. Andrew
Neldon. owner of I.ynwood Lodge, to the
effect that the artist was taken away se
cretly by Mrn. Adams, who promised t-brlns-
him bark Ihe un
then never ur.iin .lmmlmi..ni,i . hi, I
him, was flatly denied by Mrs. Ad.im
last night. Sho also Indignantly scouted
nr. Neldon s declaration that sho wished
to exploit the artist before tho Amcrl-
can public.
; sain.
Nce Rlakeloek'a ffayalelan. , . . . t.
. , . , , ., Trial In Philadelphia.
Mrs. Adams usked that It bo made .
most emphatic that Dr. Neldon was. The evidence gathered In two cases nl
never cousulttd as the artist's phvslclaii. 1 ready generally known, authorities said.
Ills position, sho said, was that o'f land- tBether with u mass of Incriminating
in t . "?l,1,n5 "!or,;-
Hlakclock. who in now In Vw Ynrtt
will remain hire, dec IV Mr ' duns
Th" fear that Vhe artists ind deXs
who ha'e M-e, nn king largo pi tl"
through tho sale of lm at Ion Illake uX.
will attempt to conceal Xosure of their -
irauu n
asylum
Mrs.
Tni:
the
artists
sign
country
Ititlors.'
spurious
I
slnci
I.ynwood Iodge. He has shown an nl
most Insatiable curiosity to i-rc every part
of Now York, lllakelock was born In
Greenwich Village seventy years ago. and
asked Mrs. AilatnM in 'ii.L'm 1,lt ttiMin.s
that plcturesquo section of tho city, lie I
km.. i.A . . ...;' i
pi " larger pan m yesterday in tli
street., whero he had played ns n bov.
y Keeping tlio artist In the Insane . "- " m- y.m "-',..... .. ,, .,-,, .,,.:.',' .1 car of Juggernaut. It look, uncanny to-day Mr. I.loyd George said : 1 .uili or the. Antra mir troops made
has caused this decision. man.led In each case are : . d-O ta gellsm ro "'"v In favor of 1 a r , d " S "It Is really Winston Churchill more another Important advance to-day. A
Adams corrolH-r.it.-d last ulel.t . """.,.':0---nuc- ",9 l,oc ,on- ' V. ' I'.."' ,u" " HUe ,. ,-.. ....lemill-r m . n,i..i.- tr. ' than any one else to whom credit for strongly fortltled German work situated
Sl-N's urtkle of 5. -sti-rd.iv lelllmr ..f """l -.-.''". .. , .' . . .. . , '. "I "ainp.iiKii a ,,",. , ' the new armored cars Is due. Ho took between llouleauv w..o,l and ithwl.t.
plan of n committee comnosed ,.f ...-'' " ''1' ;'rse , " J " ro'" Hn.,J' M i.V,..h ' , . f 1 i, --Vv I tin with enthusiasm the Idea of making known 11s 'th.. Quadrilateral.' whl.."l,
ts of the National Academy of D . Hiowti. J-j.ooo. ' ,,'"" '' easily be ui.d to unroot them and clear t'""1" ' lor'f '"e "g" and met with hitherto resisted our efforts, has lallen
to locate all of his painting In the -1". - J -". ...,,.t.,?"j " ." " " J il .,.h" '"" ": rT.e' ' I , I P ' many dimcultles. He converted me. and completely into our hands. a J ei .it
and have tlio artist personally '"J;tT......J .,.... ' . ,i .Mr. Uaker .aid the tractors sent to ft th- Mlnlstiy of Munitions we went of Its cupture our lino has be..,, d-
- tli.Mii In an effort to rxi.oso the! :'"' --""r". "M"U' . . V""' '": . "''"y". ""'" .A V ,. nnV. ahead and made them. vanced to a demh ..f n,nut .. 1 ...,,.1
works. . '" CTrutian. anas jamcr ftes-rts. , ' Z 1,0 S "17-; .. a, , t "The Admiralty experts were Invalu-. yards along .1 one fron-.
lakelock has been n busy tourist . . . ".V.." ' . ""'V ". """"? J...V1 ni... f..i,, ,,x .,1 ab.c and uhw foe aie-te.t poeSifclc as "Haven rr.achliv- r-r-. .-.-.!
1.1.. : 1 ucirce inane:. .111.1s .Tn.enii Tenri . .en inj nieeuiiv him. n cui satti mat iner r""- . . v.--.
! Ilia uep.iriuie la, I 1-riO.IV rrom .-:.." . , - . ----- ..i a 1. nrn rt fiaiainr. im-, . ivuiw, me vavi in ' nriSOIierk were 1.1-ieli Iti (Ii.. 1... nr... ..r
visited the Metropolitan Museum of Art Ir. Philadelphia of Prank Crocker, alleged
nnd wa, the guest of George A. Kunz nt former member of the gang, who Is said
the Museum of Natural History. to have confessed to a part In the
Later ho vslted Fifth avenue and sw Indllng of Mr, llejtln.i Kllpper of
shopped to his heart's cotiteni. Me 1 Philadelphia, and the arrest at Phlla
bought a now hat and then allied to go delphlu of William Uutler; lield tla-re In
to a department stole. Mrs. Adams ae- lonncctloii with an alleged blackimill'
companled hlni. The nrtlst selected Plot agalnbt the lato Mrs. Susan ti. S.
some lavendar and old roso colored pa- Wlnjieuny.
Jamas, which seemed to please hlni lm- Clabaugh nl-o revealed to-day the
mensely, looked uf socks and devoted source of tho Information that led to
much lime to the purcliac of cravats. 1 the raid. Ilu said that "Dick" Ilarrett
He tcorncd uny nccktlo which cost less ' nnd IMuard .1. Thompson, two members
man 9
With
a new hat and a harmonizing
ho walked proudly up Fifth avc-
cravat
11 tie.
Mrs. Adam Threatened.
"Dr Chn-Ics S Itnilc of 1 i.t rn -iiw.., I
a specialist In llJr"?.!-dlsiu
only physician consulted reg-irdlnt: ,
lllakelock slnco bis rele i frntu in.. Mia
,
night,
L nI?..Tr".,,!CJ,.y'l
but I b.ivo
the public, which has been so generous I
to Mr. lllakelock, when oth.r nconlc
"!aK UI1V . r irllclf,n oc '' motives i.
gardlug lilm.
"I have knowledge, tint there la a con-r.-ilrary
on foot to get tho artist back
Into an asyhlin for the lnnine. I have
been called on the telephone lato at night
und told that I was going to be assassl-
nated. I have been followed and mv I
...
every movement watched. I don't of
course take theta ihreats seilously. but
they show to what extent Illakelock's
enemies uro olng. That was the reason
I'trsik litiii out of New Jersey.
"filnkclock Is happier In New York
than In Kr.glcwood, und under tho clr-
cumstanccs I think It best to keep h,n !
hero. Ivritrrct this, for I spent a great
deal of time and energy in preparing a
ntudlo for lilm.
" visited lllakelock only twice since
his arrival at I.ynwood Lodge, and I
never went thero without witnesses."
RIVERSIDE DRIVE GOES DARK.
Short Circuit Pots Out Lights From
1431U to tr.Tth Slreel.
Houses In tho district bounded bv
115th and 15'th stnets, .Amsterdam
avenue and Klvcrsl.le Drive, were wl'h
out electric light from 7:30 to s P. M,
last night as a result ot a -diort circuit
In a conduit ut 151H street and liroud
way. When the short circuit occurred In
the conduit of the'Fulte.l Klectrlo Light
and Power Company thero nut- an ex
plosion that sent the cover of the man
hole twenty feet In tlio air. Nobody was
hurt.
Telephone calls begging Mr Informa
tion as to the cau?e of the sudden dark
ness ill npartmcnt houses camo lulu tho
Audubon oxchangn of the New York
Telephone Company by tho hundreds,
but the ofllces of the exchange, were nlso
without electric light and didn't kuuw
why. Tho electric light compuny sent
nn emergency crew that repaired the
short circuit and tho lights wcro re
stored In half nn hour.
BROTHERS UNCLES IN A DAY.
Stork Leaves One Hoy at John'
House Rat Two at Frank's,
Pahhaic, N. J.. Sept. IS. -The Tchol
family Is coming right along. John Tc
hol of 37 Ilrlnkerhoff placn set out highly
elated to tell his brother Flunk of C Ho
bart place the glad news.
"Flno boy over at my house. Con
griitulatn me. Vou'io an undo now,"
said John, '
"And so are you, John. Two of them
In here," unswered Frank, Tho three
Tehols born tho same day and almost at
tho samo hour nro doing well.
DEWKV'H I't.RK HINKH AT MKALH
nun ptstMire. lietlrr dlc-tlnn anil hi.llh. IU
fulten It Miiiiu Kti., N', Y, I'Uene 3041 Cert,
Ait.
MILLION WON IN N.Y.
BY BLACKMAIL BAND
Two of tho Oanpr Confess, and
Dragnet Is Set for
Their Leader.
MEN AND WOMEN PREY
One Banker Paid 850,000,
While a Lawyer Gave Up
Even His Motor Car.
Chicago, Sept. 18. While Federal ou
thorltlcs' here aro prepared to-night to
arraign for
n tirellmlmirv tiearlnir to-
" . . . i
morrow
seven members of an alleged I
blackmailing gang who used the Mann I
act a, their chief weapon, detectives
fortlticd with information obtained from
tw i,lln.l m.mi 1 ih. h '
" ""'
Confessed made arrests in other cities '
and spread n dragnet for II. C. Wood
ward1, rought as director In chief of the
syndicate.
Hlnton O. Cl.ibsugh of the Department
of Juftk-o declared to-night ho had ob
tained sutllclent evidence to convict the
gang without exposing the names of
some of thctr wealthy victims. It was
understood that none of the names of the
victims would bo disclosed at the pre
liminary heating beforo a United States
rommlsloncr to-morrow. These victims,
Principally wealthy men whose flirtations .
wlth Vtelly women led them Into traps
lro'" "im-ii mey csrapeu oniy on pay-
mv". UrKt" 1)0 "Melded from j
publicity except us u last resort. It Is
. t where ii. iei-ei. .r. rrV..-.i ui
i"lit where the sc?n wer urrrttu. will
bn I'res. nted to the Kederal omnils-
Ion,,r' 'abatigli expects the seven III '
1""'rf" "l"vcd to Philadelphia for
'i'l lthout u stubborn resistance be- J
fo. ,hc -onimlssloner.
l-'ratik Crocker. tS.000.
Mm. I-'ran-e, Allen, alias Mrs. Krance.i
Chapman, 15.000.
Croeker Held la Philadelphia. 1
Developments In the case u pot ted
to Clabaugh to-duv included tho arrest
or tun n iellcate. had confessed. Thev .
. -' . " '"" "'. "'i'."w lomi 10 iiiiBiu-e - - 11 the matter of armor nlat ng. Mulor . thu i.iii.iv .jf
trobubly "III bo given Immunity. Their . others urged that .1 hundred public men
rcvelatlonr. said Clabaugh. were replete.be usked to subs-oill- f 1,000 each.
1 ivnii HtnrieM .11 .itt'e.A'ii iii'ii.i.',,. 11 ,ntc 1
i?"
ueuuuiui women and iieuonair, Handsome '
their vlctln
T,1'" 'r,vtn un,,T "r.rcV. herr w' ."" ,
tl.eir release on bond. It was said to-
"ifh. W Charles ,:. Krbste.,,. their i.un , I
100.000! -.......-.., j
Women Aaserl Innocence.
The men refused to tall: to-day, but
the wotnen scouted the ehurges.
Mrs. Helen livers, said by Federal au
thorities to have been used (is thn "lure"
In the bogus Mann act cases, stamped
ner icev uuu t-nui mere ii noi u nvru.tiAf,.) wiiaA,, a..nk, ... aaa
of truth in the charges. Hughes 0,1
n-. i never snioKeo ppinm in mj-1
. , . ... i , , ,, ., , i ., . i
life." sho said. Indignantly denying that
the opium outtlt found was hers.
I Mrs. Frasces Chapnian said nothing.
, Mrs. Kvcrs said Mrs. Chupnian s arrest
was - an outrage tnat hiio was
visiting at tho npartmcnt
At tho preliminary hearing the Gov-
eminent will be represented by assistant
District Attorneys llcnjamln Kpsteln nnd
Michael Igoe. Charles 11, KTbsteln will
appear for the prisoners.
Mra. Kllpper Chief Witness.
Mrs. Kllpper of Philadelphia will be
the principal witness against them. The
woman who fell victim to blackmailers
last January und who was abducted
and held in Montreal for six weeks by
Ihe cilmlnals last summer, left Phila
delphia to. day for Chicago accompanied
by a Government detective.
The Government lawyers, it Is said,
will ask a continuance, which will not
be opposed by Mr. Crbst.-ln. If lliey
urn lield ut their hearing liero they
will lm taken to Philadelphia for trial.
Information I cached Chicago during
tlm day that tho four men anil three
women may not be tried on u charge
of kidnapping, no at first was contem
plated, but on a cnargo of obstructing
justice.
Mrs. Kllpper will tell on the witness
stand In Commissioner Foote's court all
details of her ulleged abduction to
Montreal. Fpoii tills Incident seems to
hang tho fate of tho fashionably dressed
hwlndlein and their pretty women ae
ccmphecs. Ilelrayrd by Crocker.
The story of tho blackmailing of Mrs.
Kllpper, already has been told In court.
Frank Crocker, a member of tho gang
who fleeced her, split with hi, confed
erates becuuso nf un unsatisfactory
division of the loot, and turned Stale's
ivillepcn against them at tho hearing
of George Irwin nnd Homer French be
foro Commissioner Lewis Mason on
Juno 7,
Irwin nnd French were picked up lu
Chicago, Fiencli was discharged. Irwin
was released on S5,000 bonds for trial In
Now Tork for complicity lu tho Kllpper
blackmail rase. Ho hus disappeared,
Tho details nf tho .Kllpper blackmail
case, ns they appear in the Hies of Com
mlssloiicr Mason's, court , diow that
Crocker met Mrs. Kllpper In ll.o Kmplro
Hotel In New York early lu last Jun
uary. She Is a widow with , two tmiall chil
dren. She went to New York aa a
buyer. Sho was handsome und woro ex
pensive diamonds, Frank Croker
Cos., .mied on TAInt Pag.
FRENCH EXPERT SEES
MONEY CENTRE IN U. S.
3Iax Hoschillcr Says Its Reten
tion Depends on Ameri
can Policies.
Paiiis, Scot. 18. Max HoschlUer.
In,
an artlclo In the Temps to-aay, contrasts j
America's financial position now in re-1
sped to foreign countries with what It ;
was before the war. The article say: I
Then , M United State, wassendlng i
Ii.n ih tru.i em,.. ..n,im
to
i. iropo irom -.-oo.ou,ouu to -.-1
000,000 In Interest on Its borrowings
luu.uuu.uwu to -.-uo,uuu.iioo sneni oy
tourists, 9100.000,000 to 1150.000,000 to
expatriates and $20,000,000 to $40,000,-
uuu in olCaii ireigms.
"Since trie war ho Un ted States ha, i
Imported 1730.000,000 In gold and has
paid back a conlderablo amount of It, I
Previous borrowlnKs. liicrciECd Its for-1
eign traue py I2.2an.noo.ouo yearly nnci
i..nii , for;n r, ih.h7o nnn.nno.
so that the dnllai-now has leplaced to a
considerable extent the old sovereignly I
ut ,:.M11"1! I,0.!n'.-. ".?;'- ...
""""" "'V . !!" ""I .wl"
.lain wan nrr
.Inlll.Ml l.t'in..lnt nri'Ml. .
Izatlon Ilin nrnltlnn reeentlv won will '
derend upon American llnanclnl and
commercial pollcle-. The arrival lit
i.,... .... . . i iu. i
i i iiinr i. mi aiuii'i ii;nii luutiiii i . ii i ,n.-
Hon la un Indication that Americans are
realizing they must follow the law of ex
change between countries buying in gen
eral ns much ua they sell."
N.Y. MINISTERS GALL
FOR BILLY SUNDAY I
.,,, , , t,
(tl'Cnt Revival PlailUCd to HC
gin Here March 1t lf17
8100.000 Fund.
TI,B committee of thirty men who are
Planning P.IIIy Sundaj's revtval cam-
pa'Kii In this c ty met at the Madls.ir.
Uo Methods Uplscopal Cl.ureli.
' -on nM-uue ,.i.,l Sixtieth street Ian
the revival within forty-eight hours.
Tliey nave nn option on tho property
at lOStlt street and llroa.lway as a tcntn-
live sua ror tne tuis-rnacle. wlilch win
cost 133.000, and they also have another
site they arc considering In ll.th street
near ItUolile Drive.
It was apparent from the ronlllcllng
impreroioni galn.d from various menu
hers of the committee present nt the
meeting that they re dlflerlng a, to
the methods they should pursue In rais
ing tho money.
Some of them, fearful that the public
might n-oelate money getting with Sun
day's evangelical work, were In faor of
first subscribing tho fund to llnance'
the revival, paying Sunday his fee and
therm repaying the subscribers of the
fund from the revival receipts.
Otlier, spoke In favor of raising the
mnnev i.v eimr..i. ....iii,,,.
Still I
1 , ... 1 ters wlm in iirf n, 1,. 1 logs or i-llmli thiough shell craters like' the new Hrmored ears. In mi Interview days important advance as follows:
Military Attache Ts
nntl More Ae.lve Than Any Day
Mnee t ampalun llegan.
f. ,11 .
,,-; th- ,inancK7i uirlcV than .1 lu.
been any day since the campaign b
gnu. ltotween Jla.OOO and 20,'-rt- was
bet on Hughes at 2 to 1. WINou money
was reported more plentiful and nt the
eoo of business the odds on Hushes
had d lopped to 8 to although the
Hughes people were still quoting 2 to 1
on their favorite, (me curb l-oii-e be'
;Wanl McQuade, idakehoMer. was
..,mt .iilvuiiiki f'..iiMoii.uvr, was
orferI , bct UeiA ,, WM ,a(l,
le day ,(. j S(o!(,, B,mouncci tl):U
ho had J3.000 to bet on Wlsn and said
no k)ew of hif. ,. interests who
""".are leadv to bet S1UO.O00 on Wilson If
thOOdds Increase a little.
Iictli announced. No betting ha
i;ven money is oiiere.i on whitman,
,,,. ,,llI)n otl ,h cainor-nacon light.
George v: Pauchle. a lawer of MMiad an opportunity ,o learn the new art
Chamber street, said he had S7C.000. to
bet on Whitman at odds of 10 to 7 U.
TT DlVMOlin ASOlimr VTTTTTi
Ll. KAZAUflll AoUUlltt All.l.LU.
Son of British Premier Fell In Ac
tion on Srplembrr l..
I.onpon, Sept. 1;. I.leut. Ilaymniid
Aqultti, son of Premier Asqulth, was
killed In action ou September 1.".. It wuh
announced to-duy.
ltnyniond Asqulth, who was In his
thlrly-clghth year, wns a gradintc of
Oxford, president of Hie Ovford Fnlon
and prominent as a j member- of thn bin-.
to which he was admitted In I'.mi. He
nrtcd us Junior counsel for Gie.it llrlt-
ulti In the North Atlantic fisheries ar -
bltrath-m nt The Hague l l'.07. He
was made u second lieutenant In a
county of London regiment In SH und
l.l.-utciiant of the Grenadier Guard In
191,'.
Two brothers, I.leut. Arthur Asuulth of
the Itoyal Naval Iteserve and Lieut.
Herbert Asiiulth, wern woundr.l lu action
at tho Dardanelles In June, 1915,
WHISKEY BARRELED FOR SICK.
Hospital I.tqnor lllll Astonishes
airman Flnnnre Hoard.
Patkiisos. V, J Sept. IS. When a
bill for 12! for a banc! of whlsk.-v
bought for the Isolation Hospital was
ireseilted by thn Hoard of Health to tho
Flnuiico Hoard to-day some of the tneiii.
hers of tho latter board seemed in need
of a drop or two from the barrel to keep
them conscious. James Matter, chair
man of the hospital committee, explained
Ihut the whiskey was "for medicinal
purposes."
Mr. Miiher said that although such a
large iUiintlty, which was ordered to get
the benefit of the vvliolialo price, might
not bo needed now, It would not go to
waste, us there Is a large demand for It
In tlm hoiyiltut sometimes. One objection
raised ugalnst it was that it might bring
a rush of patients to the Institution.
The bill waa referred to City 1'hyaltian
Thomas A. Clay for approval.
BRITISH LAND 'BATTLESHIPS'
ARE JUST YANKEE TRACTORS
Armored Caterpillar Gun Battery That Is Driving Back
Germans in the West Is U. S. Farm Machine
1,000 Sold to England.
Washi.voto.v, Sept. IS, British
"lanks," or land "battleships," the
armored motor "cars used In reoent as-
saults on German rrnrh in tinrthem ,
t.- ... . . ............
Knince so successfully as to attract
wori,iu.i,, n ., . ..
most part in Peoria! III., In tho form of'
.culla, .., ,n u,o lorm 01
caterpillar tractors, designed many years i
before tho war began to meet some of
the diniriili nmKi.u . i-. i
...........
tor their unnor, their machlno !
guns and their crews, thousands llko I
,,cm nro In twe to-day
In the United
u. ... .
rlaln m pioiigning, digging ditches and .
other labors lesa heroic than war.
M, M. Hiikir. vice-president of the
J'"1 ?-anufactur!iig Company, explained 1
..'r. ",ul 11 . wa?. ""le ,
Ill' lllu ...il.ili'i n.
ll Penrl.1 l,lnnt Ihuti
had hurdled ilrriiinn irei.m. ,. .lu,l
through forests und crawled over shell .
.-raters In thu face of Intense gun lire.
"i-., ..,.1.1 ..i ,,,.n .... in
,..u ciiu iti'viii l,v' lain lunar
trarturs to tho Hrlllsh flovermncnt."
"said Mr. Uaker. "Wo lane had until-
h g to do with putting armor on them, or
placing machine guns, but somo of our
men at Aldershot. Kngland. recently
were notified that the llrltlsh llovcrn-
meat Intended to urm some of the trac- l
tors nnd use them for work other than
the usual towing of big guns.
ftermanr ,tta Posaeaaea Them.
"Ormatiy had some of these tractors
, before the war began, and although 1 I
1 do not understand Just how It occurred. '
l believe she may liao got others since .
then, f have sent romo to France
and some to Itilssla. So far n, I know,
until the recent appearance of tho ar
mored cars the tractors were used only
to tow big guns. 1 understood that C.er
many used almut forty of them In tills
work before l.lego early In tho war. and
recent photographs show that the lirlt-
samorpurpoVVme,0t ,llCm "W fr ,he
"It Is true that these tractors can go
.'ili,.!iil nv.r iilnmut iitiviliUnr ilinmaii
almost anvthlnir. Thev .-an strn.trtln n
trench, go t moiieIi 11 swamn. roll over
Crania on Two Bin Belt.
Sneaking broadly, the tractor crawls
on two belts, wltn corrugated surraces.
on either side of the body. Tho corru -
1 gated surface Is 011 tho ground. On the
Inside of the belts, 011 each side of the
body, are two Hues of teel rails, malting
four lines In all. These rails are In short
sections, jointoii, and operaio over a
cogged mechanism that actually lays
them down with their belt attachment as
tho tractor move, nhead, ami picks them
VON PAPEN IN THICK
OF SOHME FIGHTING
Chief of Staff of n
Division.
Um.i.w Sept. IS, via uondon, fVpt. IS
(Tuesday). Capt. Franz von Papen,
former U-mnnn military attache at
Wahlnglon, is now In the ccntie ot the Industries, to far from suffering from
lighting on tho Somme front, lie Is the ( the war, nppcar to have proilt.-d exteii
chief general staff ofilrer of a division shely and to have gained niateriailv
holding one of tho most crucial sectors
. .
1 o:, this front, against which the Kntente
I r,,r weeKs nave oecn iuia.aiiiB
I
their heaviest attacks,
. ., .
,' 1 U '!', ' ? " . , '
uss'.gninent to the front ai
received his coveted
ifter his return
from tho Fulled States.
He was tlrst
given command of a battu'.lon, and, ns I
he laughingly told a correspondent dur-j
Inir a recent visit to the front, ho has
of war as It has developed In the. course
of the present .ostllltles. which lias pro-
,.res...i f,.r l.evi.nil il.,. let hook and
1 theoretical studies of the antebellum era.
A nt ,1C a,,,,,!,, had familiar-,
I lye.l l.l.nself .villi the methods und finesse
' . " ''AV'V.'. "'''. v...":.. -r.V. ...
tne uigiiiy impoi-ani assmnn.rn. o. our.
,.r Bi.-irr iimi l-ieiit nanti man or me ai-i
vision commander.
In a recent conversation ths former
.Military Attache at Washington said he.
was anxious to have his friends In H,., I
I'nlte.l states know that ho Is serving at i
the front, und not hi Holland or foulh .
America, where, bo declined, ceitaln
li.tntf l.ii.l Iv'e eiirresniMirle.il m Ii ii rl rnnorteil
hl. .aH t.0,,ductli,g piop.igaud.i work. I
1 Th,.. rPno,,- lm sold, were "hosh."
1
53 SHIPS SUNK IN TEN DAYS.
. .
MM'Plemrntary 1.1. 1 of II float tc
lima lilvrn Oat.
1lr.RMN. Sept. IS (by wireless to Say-vlll.-).--Figures
on the number and ton.
iiago of ships sunk by German subma
rines reeentlv;, given out by the Over
seas News Agency to-day, supplement
yesterday's tigures and show u total ot
5.1 hostllo and neutrnl vessels, wilh an
aggregate tonnage of 7I.0SX, destroyed
i lu tho period from September 3 to Sep
tember 13.
"In the l.ngllsh Channel," says Ihe
news agency statement, "German sub.
marines In this period sank "0 nihil
tlonal hostile und neutral vessels with a
total tonnage of 3rl,!0., Tho neullal
ships wern destroyed because they car
ried contraband und In view of the Im
possibility of bringing them to a Ger
num. port."
COAL STRIKE IN BELGIUM.
Miner Want Pay Comraenaarale
With Price of Food.
Amhteiipam, via London, Tuesday.
Sent. 19. The Jfnajfrlent ,r .Votu-clen
rays a general strike of miners through -
out the Kelglun coal llelds Is in progress.
The miners are asking for un Increase
In wages commensurate with the high
price of food.
up again, so that th ear runs on Its own
self-made track continuously. The short
Joints In tho rails make It easy to turn to
"-KJ i- .
right or left
v "wh, rail
ln0 0Uy is supporica i j w.w.
,,! ,r. -rh.. h..l never touch
i!,9.Frouni!' but P"" .u"0LV.V.,--r.8;
. , .- irnr..r Bho, Mvn feet
of bcU ttml rnllB lfl on the ground at one
tlmo. Mr. Uaker said tho machine
wntilrl tirldir iinv (rsneh that was not
, - ....-i, i. laid
hYS
,i,i.. i,k n, ri- .itn of tha tranch
below tho top, nnd the "stern" would un-
.ri. .. i,..,. .... k. ..n.iiv
"-"! ?-'"".:.-.'
It to go nhead and climb out.
(ironnd I'ressnrr la Very Mht.
"0 WKUIl oi Irani use oil 111. nia
rhlne cent to IJnglHlid, Mr. Uaker said.
wa'' '"cheH. "e declared mat ino
ground prcsniro , nnout tnree pourm.,
tier snuaro Inch where a 30 Inch track Is
. . , m . - .
or less man maj 01 u.e.
either man or horse. He suggested tha
hn "rltlsli authorities probably had
lengthened the track on thT tractor.,
,tfr'1 trench work, giving them even
greater power to surmount obstacles,
"We've been making these tractors for
the British Government for a long time.'
said Mr. Uaker, "and have not talked
much about It. Since their recent use In
i storming trenches I have seen published
i p.nnHa ll.ti. Ia.I ri a. tn hltVA lh. Ueret
...... .1,1 ,. o '.... .,r.nv .nnn .n
1 a,rlrled It might ss well be told now."
Althounh bo would not discus, the mat-
tcr lt waH ulljCrtood the United States
War Department Is experimenting with
armored tractors somewhat llkn those
now In uso on the llrltlsh buttle line.
CHURCHILL DEVISED CAR
Kx-t-'lrat Lord of Admiralty
I Credited by Lloyd Urorce.
, Dondon. Sept. 19. David I.loyd
(?wrie. llrltlsh War Minister, fflves
credit to Winston Spencer Churchill, the
lormer i-irst i.oru 01 me Aamiraiiy, lor
matter of armor plating. Major
Stern, buslne:-- mun ut tho Mtnlstry of
.Munition?, had charge of the woik f
getting them built und he did the task
, ... u iv.i sia-imnn m- ih. lutein
, penco department of the General Staff)
ani others ulso did valuable work."
Asked for his vr-onaI opinion about
1 the cars, the, War Minister said: "We
,n,ft ,-,,1 expect loo much from them.
but so far they have done very well ami
rctlcct credit 0,1 those responsible for
them. The enemy has by no means 11
monopoly on Inventlvo Ingenuity."
'GERMANY REPORTS
, INDUSTRIAL BOOM
j Lent her. Chemical and Dyi
Trades Enjoy rnirptcdent
! ed Prosperity.
I rtr.Rt.t.v, Sept. 11, via London, Sen!.
10 f Tuesday), Complete leturns for the
fiscal year of 1!13 Innlcate that German
, over preceding years. Leather, chem -
, 0al nnd dye Indu-trles have enjoyed
; unprccciicuteu prosperity from war or-
I dors.
The annual statements of forty of
1 Germany's largest leather companies
I enow mat nieir proms In lHle were
37.T0 p.-r cent., as compared with so.ss
per cent. In 1PH, while 114 chemical
and do companies riveraged 31 lj per.
, cent., agnln-t l ..'.. In l!ll.
I statistics for nhjeleen varieties - of
'"'"'?"". " i , i t ,
? 'XTJL. " A
Industries, and comprising l',900 firms,
i Pi. mo uguro aiiiuiieri ny leather, to
I l.S. tho llgure tittalned by stone. The
scarcity of fats and oils drove the prohts
i "f noeo lines above il per cent.
lexines, (lesoiifl Handicaps,
made I
ne.n lv 34 i.er eenl. t Iron k,rnHI. 1
v.:";:;," "i,::,": .:"
-v..iU,.e, n unu
-i i t . . ... . , ..
pprwOW UPATSr HPW VflPWD
rbprt F. Tonnidi Brmrrr mt
Vprdmi omoloJIy Mrntlonid,
1 t.. . e ..
1 iun. i.',"iumiK ni--ricrtn
.... j rtf t i.'tf.i ..,1.. .1-
HlVHIi'VI.J 'l 111'- I'Ht 11 IW14 l.l) iiv ri LL'M
Fr. nch mlltlaiy commanders for their 1
etllclency under lire. Herbert F. Town.,
send of New York Is thus mentioned to
day In general orders for hi, niirk be
foie Verdun:
"Unpaged voluntarily since March,
1111 1IM !l kMluIll II. elllef l.f l,.At..n ,1
Keel inn V... 1. b.i Ii.-im never l,e.lt....l
personally to contribute largely, bv or-
ganlzatlm and direction, to the removal
of the wounded under continuous hostile
tire. Ho Is courageous, devoted and of
rare modesty."
.
PROF. KETTLE KILLED IN WAR.
Irish Palrlol Who I'onchl for
llrltaln Dies In t.lnrhjr Rattle.
Diiii.in, Sept, is. Lieut, Thomas
MI..I t.'.lll. ..... ..r i.
i..i...u.. .i-..i, inuii-nin i,i v. un. times in
t no national i niversiiy, nas ueen Killed
In action ut Glncliy. lln wus.ii brother-in-law
of t-heehy t-ikcttlngloii, who whs
executed by'shootlng during the recent
unrlsln-; In Irelind. In 1908 Prof. Kettle
made a tour of the United State In the 1
Interest of the Irish cause.
1 Prof. Kettle waa born In 1SS, the son
nf u pioneer of tha Irish land movement.
lie was a lawyer and Journalist, and
.from 1906 to 1910 roprctentcd Hunt
I Tyrono In Parliament.
"'VIZ' ,,ulu""1 "'-i""rr' taking par: of a conn- laud ( !.-,,, .
1 f Jl" "'' , . . . ,, ! tirneji svst.-in
Hie banks came out about even with , , . ,
tlio r.'l 1 tigures. tiuiaiug over is per.
were put again to t-ie t -' nil 1 s' -.-I f.
crM- .well. In the trench h Ji- captured, we-t
'" of Motiquet f.nm, tho Gernir. ii't'l
BRITISH GAIN
1,000 YARDS ON
ONE MILE FRONT
Capture Strong Fortified
Works Known as
"Quadrilateral."
BIG GAINS MADE
SOUTH OF AXCBB
New Araiy, Shelled by Ten
tons, Lose Trendies,
but Eegain Them.
S03IE GKOUXD GAINED
IX TUSH ON BAPAU3IE
Germany Peports Bij?
Losses for Engl isli Say
They Arc Played Out.
IiONtxw, Sept. 19 .Tuesday). Tho
llrltlsh lino hns been ndvanml u thou
sand yards along a one mile front, saya
tho odlclal statement front general
headquarters. Issued last nlstlit. A
powerfully fortified Uerm.ni work,
known us "the Quadrilateral," has
fallen completely into Hrltlsh lunula.
Progress was 11N0 iiiade nuith or
Tiers, where heavy ilcrnun i-ounki-
"ttneks wi.re repuNed.
mnciui n,nrinrm
Iecrlbes the
, this hlslitv so .-fni
, Tho capture of the uuadrll.iie..-."
was .1 notable aclileve,iie',t for the llrli-
lh not only because of th" etrrnwlh ot
this work, but liecaitso Its iK-.essiin I,
yet another step In the encircling ot
Combles. This was done In t-i-upcratlnii
with the French east of Comb!. , who
took a trench only ) v.-irds from tlm
town to-day.
This "Quadrilateral" w i.- oi-.r- of Hi
muny strong systen-.n of f-cu.-hes and
small forts with wlihh tne G.-mati- mil'
hoped to defend CnmlA-. from i.i.i'ure.
ll was one of the we-tin, support.-, us
I Prle. farm, whl.-h tie: Fr h-1i too.,
some dajs ago, was mir of tho ta-teii.
l'roteetedK'onilil.-s I'liink.
Situated btween lioule.iux wood on
thu south and Glnehv on Hie n-u-tb, th"
"t'liadrllat'-ral" prote '. il tin- i lulu Hank
of Combles. It nl-" prot.-cled the loon
of the railway about ioinliK-.-. the re
maining stictcli of th.i'. Irai k riot In al
lied hands. St.v.11 hum hire gun.- mil
many prisoners were tn!u In its cap
tuie. The total of pi'soii'-r.- 'alie,. by tb
llrltl"h was Smo men and t. n nlll.-, is ,
the lat twenty-four bonis Tin Fi-en.
took in.") In tie- atin. tl-n . m.ii.ing ,i
total of l.loo for the .Mil,.- Mr tin- dav
Tho Itiltich ollb-ial natennnt al,, tn)
' that counter attn.-:;
imrtll of 1 K-i-s weio
! '' lvcn ''-'"-'!( '"""' - !l,"l 1"'
.'I I I s
niailc. German troops massing lit I.o. -bocufs
and Morvnl mi', .-.nmlit to a,r'i -lery
lire ami dispersed. This show de
value, to the llrlli-li of p. -.-( Ion of til"
J n',:' -',l'un'1 J11"' gained, ubi. li . nabbs
.n..,,,
. ',,'".,,,."
lire now Ii I ill - tin- i i.-i ion
b. low and briaU up si. h at-
taiks lufoi'e they start.
Tho otllclul Hal.-inent to. night tells of
Important captures of littinan mius In
tho recent big nihaiuo as follows:
"Peebles the .-iuis iilr. n.ly u porte I
hIiko the liioi'uini: of lb,, 1..1I1. un
1 Iihv-o taken live heavy lion iiei .-. u, i
tleld guns, Ibiec heavy und tl Il.'l
treiuh inoi tins and a iiiiiuIk i- of n i bin,,
guns, Tho total iimnbei- of ) ii-onvi 1
taken tn tho past tweiiti.foui- liours Is
ten officer, nnd 5ofl men."
Troops of the llrltlsh new army wer
assigned the Job of taklpr moi. of tb-i
deathtrap I !t i man trenches south of
Thi.-pval. Though tlm I.elpslo red oil .
the Wunderw-erk and the Danube trem 'i
I "alien. tllCro are. tlioic Ml. 1. P-U." I
' nut, to crack there. ' Th
nut to iT.M thrrr. 'Tli m w unn -
wrp k r lev t iii''ii. iiin r .i ,u'i .
1 shelled thein unm.-rtlf ullv i . Iio'irr, 'h'-u
I, itt tl,.. ll, tl,.- l"'t nill'l ll, .1 ..... '
Thev kiti..eilei1 In net. In. Inf.. rn. ..f ft...
, nrit'., trciirhor. .in I UoUUni; It f. .1
rnlrutop. Tlin tht- now trnojirt tun
lm 1; ami driivc t .Jpriii.ins out.
, . . n... i . ... t-
i "v I'-i-" innii -.'"tiii "I'll- in
tliipiilch. noirlv two mil." lbs
Hi lt is i
, , L nl u . V. T... t ,
ru. ',.,M"' , ni n,:, . "i1" ' '
uiuii from Albert, iionuM th- urltisi
lines, to llapaum.'. the iniportutt :i7 iv
town tnat they have beep striving fir."
sIiko July 1.
What th" odl'lal s'atemeni -..l. 'a
i lllllior attack
east of fnurrelotto w.. '
upon (.orm.iu trench el. in.-rti and
WiH entirely successful "' nr line b..s
udvunced apprclablv 1.1 this poln..
I " slalement. lloth theso ml.
vances put the llrltlsh Jut po mu H
closer to Le Sars and Ihiucourt l'Abbas ,
thell- two pet stepping stones from th v
sector In advancing toward llap.itina'.
If tho llrltlsh gain, are e, ovled -i
little further at Ibis pa it of th.-ii- tn-
I the Germans In lb.' Thl-mal s.-illrut
I will bo In an untenable posiil m. T.. tlm
north of them the llil'ifii linn m ike, n
deep salient whoe point 'i iriprox
niately Arras, From tlm s.e,s of (bin
salient and the sides of Itio pie.-n n' Uril
sh Hues ou thn Snmmo h Gei innu i
will bo subjected to in enil'a i-,g nro
Impossible to restst,
FRENCH IN DENIECOl'liV.
lien. Foch's Troops Take Moi
Trenches "oath of Somntc,
1'AXtf, Bpt 18, Another vitiate ol
whloh the Osrmsns had mad a fort haa
i
Si:
iiS;SE-:
tT.i-M ...nsww,,?; w La , ,
, -bsMJk;i.tuJu.
ammmmmmiatammmmmmm,amav i r (mrmmnmv"r 'f r't
