TFINANCIAL EDITION
NIGHT
EXTRA
Ctmtmn
ffirttger
NIGHT
EXTRA
vol. in.-tfo. 5
BULGAR RIGHT
WING IN FLIGHT
FOR MONASTIR
Allies Pursue Foes Into
h Serbia Across Greek
R- Frontier
SF.RB TROOPS BATTLE
, AGAIN ON HOME SOIL
lussians Crush Five Ger
man Assaults on Cham
pagne Front
TEUTONS FAIL AT VERDUN
yfar Moves on Four Fronts
' Outlined for Quick Reading
4 Balkan front Serbians, Rus-
I - .Lmh nnA lVimli Tiltrslll flop
ping right wing of Bulbars across the
HJrecK ironiier. jiuiguuuus iuihhu-u
evacuating Monastir and rctreatinjr
inward Uskub.
East front Russians report
1 it -severe battle in renewal of
drive on Halicr. ucrmans assert tne
offensive has been halted. '
,1 n West front Ucrmans deliver
f J O five, attacks in Champagne.
Russian contingent in Franco checks
:( assaults. icuiuii uuuv;a. uii Tt'iuuii
I'llUIafc AaOe .vn eva r....w..
Vrtako slight gains In Somme battle,
'!, Atnntinni nn n lnrrrn sen. In urn
t.i.U) Yi? Vifirl vnnthpr
A Italian front Italians
!nnp drivn on Trie
port no definite progress,
con
tinue drivo on Trieste, butrc-
PILTLAJDELl'IIIA, TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 15), 1010
FIRST PICTURE OF DESTRUCTIVE BRITISH "TANK" WAR CAR
&38ft
; ?
..." M "w.
,..K.V:S7I
oorreo uv Sfiows BQrir 2-SJSSi!?., 'V
If. IIWiH . i.n-r-Lf SVT T?JXK C- " LZZMrK "TV'gWW cg'JJif ,?a
LYJLSI n V HIE SSST i n ruiMl -Tiirtl'n i I ""!
-f
Cortmanr, 1910, t the 1'iblio Lzmca Commnt,
PKIOE ONE GENT
I W3v
--WMMiKlJBBBn9aaiii Tv.-Tas-c? ''' " t W-W!""
IV I Wtm"-- ZTZTaet TSWMCCWffU5AtULwwMm j
TVArm.V CA'AlVLCi Or VC.t-.y' -Li $j v-,.rv rj-cr nh OCI.I -' -" ' Z-MBffi5Bi
,. ,,....-.. - rwr,?wre.--." '" '-" '"'Hz; -" wis-sMi
ATT- " " ""-kU- .-.".vTS. ..' . T"'" IT .-iimM
.VCl
1 '" " ' '" " "" '"' ' I I lllll'
Above is a diagram of the armor and gun equipment which, it is "'clieved, the British have mounted on the
Holt motor tractor, of which a recent photograph is reproduced here. Thugh the British are giving credit
to various officials for the invention, the actual tractor is an American product, manufactured at Peoria, 111.
About 1000 have been shipped to the British Government. Their most striking feature is the double cater
pillar wheels at the rear, which run on jointed rails fitted on the inside of corrugated belting. The 18,000
pounds of weight is so balanced that the heavy front -wheel can bo "Jerked" into tho air so as to cross an
obstacle, just as a rider pulls up the head of his horse to cross, a ditch or fence. Its makers say it is quite
possible for tho machine to get astride a trench and enfilndc its occupants on both sides by machine-gun fire.
The tractor develops 120 horsepower and can attain a speed of about ten or twelve miles an hour.
SOFIA, Sept. 19. The repulse of all
'llicd attacks around the Greek town
E cf Fiorina was announced by the Bui
lt itaritn War Office today.
El liulgarian troops aro continuing ineir
hdrancc against the Rumanians in the
Dolrudja and have captured the Black
f3ea port of Mangalia, twenty-three
', jii!c. south of Constanza.
BERLIN. Sent. 19. The Germans
stave surrendered trenches to the Brit-
If'U east of Ginchy and north of Com-
i , DUt nave rcpuisca rrencn auucHs
jrWr Bolloy and Vermandovillers, south
KM the Somme, It was pfficiallyan-
uH-uiiced today. '
SAI.ONlCA,-Sept 19.
rbfan. Russia., and French troops have
lri- the entire right wins of the "Bui-
tltrlat army out of Greece across the
Swbl frontier and are pressing on toward
lorost'. accordlnc to cftlclal advices re-
i'ttl't- here today.
Rte ....Izlne their Inability to hold
(Uonastlr against the strong forces pursuing
Jtbelr beaten troops, the Bulgar leaders are
IMld to be evacuating that city, part of
th I.nlgarlans having already been with-
ittn toward Uskub.
1$, 'Tin capture of Fiorina by the Entente
fAlltc Is rerlously menacing tho Ilulgar
Tftn'; and French bfllcers today predicted
jtiwti e entire enemy front uould be drawn
Uatlf wcrnl miles to prevent Its being
8nUd from tho west. '
French and Russian troops axe engaged
Ijflth the Hulgars near Kenall, on Serbian
iterritory. Virtually all the territory con-
SwierM by tho Bulgarian right wing In the
lltcent Invasion of Greece has already been
s recaptured by the Serbs, French and uus-
If.
The most savage fighting has occurred
Ltehtmer Serbs and Bulgarians came In
Faentact, Imager for revenge, the Serbs are
tmnrlng themselves at the Bulgarian lines
With knvea and bayonets. Desperate hand
le-hand fighting was reported northwest of
lake Ostrovo.
gTh Uulgars have made almost no strong
and since their first strong defensUe post-
i wero wrecked by French and Serbian
tlllery. They have moved steadily north-
fd. In retreat, excepting at Fiorina, where
7 offered stubborn resistance, but were
tain defeated by French and Russian
frets.
fCentral Cordonnler, French commander,
abllshed headquarters In Fiorina and
red the pursuit of the Bulgars con-
ud. '
Pightlng with th Allies near Fiorina
f a number of Qreek volunteers, whose
avery vas specially mentioned In dls-
ches from Athfnn '
lTb Dobrudja, the ItusBo-humantan re-
M haa completely halted on the Strongly
lnd line south of the donstanra IUI1-
M and an Important battle on this line
wo immincw. The Itumanlahs have
advantage o(a narrow front, protected
r U flanks by the Danube and the Black
!" mere is little doubt hero that they
-m u.o u, repei xeutonia iuiuckb.
JAHlS, Sept 19. Italians and Bulga-
P are encaiTAd in hnftln In 1ia Mvlnn
Iteunt Belasltza on the Salonlca front,
Continued an rare Foar, Column Tare
;THE WEATHER ''
, OFFICIAL FORECAST
Philadtlphio. and vimnitv Fair
I'tohUnufd codl tonight, with pos
it "iAC jrott on lowlands ; Wedttt.
V fair and slightly u?rmar; gentle,
ny vnds,
I.SN8TH or BAY
bKLAWAKK KrVKR TIHK CHANQWi
CHKHTNUT BTKHKT
TEMFWtATURJt AT JttC MUK
BIG COAL TRUST
CASE IS BEFORE
SUPREME COURT
Justice Department Files
Brief Asking Dissolution
of Reading Company
PRESCRIBES REMEDIES
JjjjoT-fffWFiilJf jrx;
WASHINGTON', Sept. 10. Contending
that through the medium of the Keddlng
Company, an alleged holding company, a
combination of great corporations having
assets aggregating more than J500.000.000
has exercised a monopoly over the produc
tion, sale and transportation of coal In the
nnthraclte fields of Pennsylvania and neigh
boring States, the Department of Justice
today filed a brief In the United States Su
premo Court asking for the dissolution of
tha aliened monopoly Into competitive un'ts
so as to restore conditions In harmony with
tho Sherman ahtl-trust ,law. Tho brief de
dares that tho IUadlng Company controls
more than two-thirds of alt the coal-bearing
lands in ilia entire SchuylkllL region of
Pennsylvania.
Tho lower court held that the Ilea'ding
Company was not operating In violation of
the Sherman law; that the Philadelphia
and Beading Railway Company andthe
Central Railroad of New Jersey were not
competitive and that their1 union did not
violate the Sherman law : that tne comDina
tlon between tho Reading Coal Company and
the Wllkes-Barre Coal Company which were
competitive, was a violation of latv, and
that tho agreements of 187J, 188S, 1887 and
1892 between the Lehigh Coal and Navlga
tlon Company and the Central Railroad
Company and the "WUltes-Barre Coal Com
pany were not In restraint of trade; that
the Reading Railway Company In trans
porting coal owned by the Reading Coal
Company did not violate the commodity
Cjauso of the Interstate commerce act, and
fhat the provisions of Us decree requiring
the Central Railroad Company to glvo up
all Interest In the -Vllkes-Barre Coal Com
pany, as a means of separating the two con
cerns made It unnecessary to determine
whether the transportation by the Central
Railroad Company of the coal owned by
the vVllkes-Barre Coal Company was vio
lative of the commodity clause.
This decision was unsatisfactory both
to the Government and to the defendants,
and both aides appealed.
OTHER DEFENDANTS
In addition to the Reading Cornpany, tho
defendants named are the Philadelphia and
Reading Coal and Iron Company, the Cen.
trat Railroad of New Jersey, the Lehigh
and WIlkAs-Barre Coal Company, the Le
high Coal and Navigation Company, the
Wilmington and Northern Railroad COnu.
pany, the Lehigh, ana Jiuaaon mver nan
way Company, the Lehigh and New Eng
land Railroad Company and Oeorgo F.
Baer, George F. Baker, Edward T. Stotes.
i.. Ti.nrv c. Frlok. t'eter A. B.. Wldener.
... a .t.i Pont. Daniel WUlard. Henry
p. McKean and Samuel Dickson, directors
of the Reading wpnuwujr.
The Government brief, which la signed
by Attorney Ueneral artgory, Solicitor Gen
eral Davis, Altant Attorney aenerat
Todd and Special Aaeletant Attorney qn
eral Gordon, contends that the Reading
Company. the alleged holding company, to
a combination In restraint of trade be
cause through U control of tha Reading
Coal Company and the Reading Railway
Company, It enjoys monopoly of tha pro,
. .. .nuurtitloa and sale of uiihra
klU osl ro In t SahuyiklU rwriM
"ai
RETURNS FROM AVAR SERVICE
Dr. R. Tait McKenzic Leaves Ilosnital
Work in England for Duties
at U. of P.
Dr. R. Tatt SIcKcnile, physical direc
tor at the University of Pennsylvania,
has sailed for this country after serving
sixteen months at a convalescents' depot
In Manchester, England. He returns to
direct the work of examining students be
fore the opening of the University on Sep
tember 29.
Doctor McKenzle was granted a one
year leave -of absence by the University,
and on June 1, 1916, sailed for England.
He enlisted as a major In the Royal Army
Medical Corns and spent most of last sum
mer at a hospital base.
FUM ON LIFE'S DREGS
BARRED HERE DESPITE
POLITICAL "PRESSURE"
Court Forbids Showing "Where
Are My Children?" After Re
peated Efforts and Appeal
for Penrose's Aid
BOSTON MAYOR'S INTEREST
ymfm"
The film "Where Aro 'My Children?"
which aroused a storm of protest In several
States whera attempts were made to place
It on exhibition, will not bo shown In Penn
sylvania. Despite political pressure, which It Is
said Mayor Curley, of Boston, sought to
bring through Senator Penrose, Judgo
Audenrled In Common Pleas Court this aft
ernoon dismissed an appeal made by the
Humanity Film Company from a decision
of the State Board of Censors.
Following a hearing of tho caBe, which
took place last Saturday, Judges Audenrled
and Carr viewed- the picture at a private
exhibition at the censors' display room,
Eighteenth and Filbert streets.
OF SORDID DETAILS
The picture deals with sordid details of
tho seamy aide of life and Is presented
under the moral uplift plea In several
States. In Chicago It was allowed to run
unmolested.
Three weeks ago the film was condemned
by the Federation of Cathollo Societies at
their New York convention. In some cities
'where It was permitted to be exhibited the
managers of houses displayed signs that no
pne under twenty-one years old would be
admitted.
On hearing that the picture had Inet with
opposltlqn In Pennsylvania, Mayor James
M. Curley, of Boston, It a said, asked Sen
ator Penrose to use his Influence 'with the
State Board of Censors to have the picture
passed.
Senator renrose Bald he kn,ew Mayor
Curley, and when the Jatter visited, him In
Washington he gava him a letter of Intro
duction to J Louis Breltlnger. president of
the. Pennsylvania Board of Censors. The
Senator said he knew nothing further about
tho matter and did not know the name of
the ploture.
counrs rulino
Judge Audenrled'a decree dismissing the
nnnaAl fnllnWS
"Upon consideration of the evidence, after
havlnir at the request of the parties viewed
an exhibition of' the series of moving plo
turea retained on tha films Involved In this
ease, the court finds that In condemning
the representation on said films of the
drama known aa "Where Are My Children:"
on the ground that It tends to debase or cor
rupt moraU. the Pennsylvania State Board
of Censors did not abuse the discretionary
power vested In It by law or act arbitrarily
.ttuiDAlv. TIia annoal of tha llu.
nutty FUm.CajMrn4 Joseph M. Gaits
sji . i
LOYAL STONEMEN
SAY REBELS JUST
WISH TO GET EVEN
Chief of Seceders Answers
Politics Had Nothing to
Do With His Course
CHARGES MULTIPLYING
Fads in the Controversy
Which Split Stonemen
TTNITED. Protestant Fellowship
'-' ("rebels") meets tonight in
Parkway Building, Broad and
Cherry streets.
Stonemen's Fellowship ("loyal
ists") meets tonight in St James's
Episcopal Church, Twenty-second
and Walnut streets.
"Rebol" claims on membership:
Stonemen, 20,000; "Rebels," 30,000.
"loyalist" claims on membership:
Stonemen, 100,500; "rebels," 500.
"Rebels" accuse tho Rev. II. C.
Stone, founder of Stonemen's Fel
lowship, of autocratic rule and Epis
copalian ambitions for the order.
Stonemen promise to answer
charges Thursday.
QUICK NEWS
tCHICAGO 0 10 0 0
PHILLIES 0 0 0 0 0
CINCINNATI O O ' '
BROOKLYN O O .
ATHLETICS... - :J,;.'S -'
Chicago is; p -:
BOSTON 1 p O -'v'. ' -
DETROIT O b0 -
: -''
Charges were made today by Stonemen
loyal to the Rev, II. C. Stone that tho rea
son Harry T. Baxter and his fzllowers
seceded from the order was due to the fact
that they did not receive the support of the
entire body at the last election.
Mr, Baxter replied this afternoon by say
ing: "I did not go Into the Stonemen's organ
ization with any Idea of using that organi
zation for political purposes. I have always
been Independent In politics; I claim to be
a good citizen and In my opinion every
good ctlzen should participate n poltlcs."
"I have never heard any political dis
cussion among tho Stonemen. In fact I
tried to prevent the Stonemen fr9m getting
Into politics. Last February Doctor Stone
asked me to organize the Twenty-sixth
ward for the Stonemen, I agreed to do this,
but I told Mr, Stone that politics and
social activities should never mix. If Doc
tor Stone and his spies, or what we called
missionaries, want to go Into the business
of raking up politics, I can furnish proof
that wlU surprise them, but I don't want to
go nto that kind of a mess."
Mr. Baxter was Independent leader of the
Twenty-sixth Ward for the Porter cam
paign. Frank Kammerad and Dr. F H.
Rhoads were candidate. for Inagtstrate
on the Franklin party ticket at the last elec
tion and were badly defeated. ICarrimerad
la from the Thirty-ninth Ward and Rhoads
from Uie Forty-second Ward, It Is charged
by the-Stonemen that Baxter, Kamerad and
Rhoads were angry because they dfd not
get the support -of their fellow Stonemen
and. have started this rebellion to get even.
The first test of strength between the
Stonemen's Fellowship and the rebellious
United Protestant Fellowship will come to
nlght.Nvhen both organizations hold meet
ings. , .
Events are ahapng themselves toward a
climax In the struggle which Involves vir
tually every Protestant church in the city
and 100,000 member of the order, who are
divided 'In their allegiance to tha founder,
the Rev. II, C, Stone.
The meeting of the United Protestant
Fellowship will be held Jn the parkway
Building, Broad jpid Cherry streets. One
of the "big guns'' which tha dissenters prom
Ise to Are will bs the reading of report
of the way an4 wsans oprowUUs of tha
wUek, eow4Ug to Hy T.
TODAY'S RACING RESULTS
first Ilavre de Graco race, 2-ycar-old3, 5 1-2 furlongs Kll
Jscmiy, 104, Carroll, 522.00, S1.70, ?2.C0, won; Sky, 105, Warscher,
?3.30, 2.30, second; Scylla, 100, J. McTasgnrt, ?2.D0, third. Time,
1.03 2-5.
rhst Montreal lace, conditions, 2-year-olds, puise $500, 5 1-2
furlongs Lord TUz Herbert, 115, Schameruorn, $3.00, $3.20, 2.20,
won; Gratitude, 112, Parrington, S4..00, S2.30, second; Sea Gull, 113,
Robinson, 2.20, third. Time, 1.12.
EFFORTS TO SETTLE NEW YORK STRIKE FAIL
NEW YOniC, Sept. 10. Efforts to arrive at a basis for settling
the traction strike failed today. Tollowlng a confeiencc between a
citizens,' committee, Mayor Hltchcl, Chairman Straus, of the Public
Service Commission, and Police Commissioner Woods, an official high
in the city administration expressed the belief that nothing now can
ricviut the calling of a general byinp.ithotlc stilke. ,
GERMAN PLANES SHELL MESTRE STATION
BHRLIN, Sept. 19. A naval plane squadron successfully dropped eight heavy
bombs on the railway station nt Mestre on tho night of September 18, said an olllclal
statement (evidently Austrian) Issued today. Numerous lilts were observed on tho
station and buildings.
400 JOIN STRIKE,
BUT CARMEN MAY
TREAT FOR PEACE
New York and Queens Lines
Halted by Sympathetic
Walk-out
MAYOR WAITS PROPOSAL
Men Expected td Point Way to
Avert General Suspension
of All Trades
BEEF PRICES IN BERLIN CUT THREE CENTS A POUND
HERLII, Sept. 19. A reduction In meat prices In Berlin was announced today
as follows: Roast beef, 'per pound, from 3 marks to 2.80 marks; beef from 2.60
marks to 2.40 marks; veal, 2.10 morks to 1.90 marks. A mark, normally worth
about. 20-oeiila In-United Stn'es money, is now worth about 16ccnts.
PHILADELPHIA GUARDS RETURN FROM BORDER SOON
r
The Philadelphia dlv'slons of tho National Cuaid now encamped along the Mex
ican border are expected to return to this city soon. This movement will follow
tho rule adopted recently by Geneial Funston to replace tho first of tho National
Gunrd.urrlvlnc on the ooider with tho new arrivals. All Philadelphia divisions,
namely, tho First, Second and Third Pennsylvania Infantry, will be tho first to
return, together with Rhode Island Bquadron of cavalry, when tho North Carolina
and Tennessee regiments arrhe at tho border to tal.e their places.
MINT TO OPERATE 24 HOURS EACH DAY
The general coinage of nickel pieces will begin nt the United State Mint in this
city next week. It Is expected that an additional shift of employes will go on dufy
on Monday ami the work of manufacturing the money will bo carried on 24 hours
each day. It woh learned that tho dies for the new dimes and silver pieces will
arrive In this city within n few days.
POPE APPEALS IN VAIN TO FRANZ JOSEF FOR VENICE
i
HOMK, Sept. 19. l'opo Ilcncdkn XV today Bent to Monslgner La Fontaine,
Patriarch of Venice, a letter deploring the repeated aerial attucks made by the Aus.
trlans on that city, "dear to tho papal heart and precious to religion and art." Tho
letter states that the 1'ope has remonstrated vainly with I'mperor Franz Josof of
Austria, but exhorts the Inhabitants to show courage and patience, nt tho ramo
tlmo expressing the hope that tho aerial Incursions will decrease. In conclusion,
the Pope gives his blessing to Venice and assures the Patriarch that he prays for
the city's safety. f
N13W TORK, Sept 1. Despite the fact
thaf motormen arfd conductors 'of the New
Tork and Queens County Railways struck
today, swelling the ranks of employes en
gaged In a blttec, struggle with the traction
magnates, decided Impetus was given te
peace efforts. These are being made by
Maypr Mltchel and Chairman Straus, of tha
Public Service Commission.
The Mayor awaited only written pro
posals from the labor leaders stating the
conditions on which they would call off
tho strike. Then he would .confer with
Chairman Straus nnd take up the situation
with committees representing the Chamber
of 'Commerce and the Merchants' Associa
tion. These chic bodies are anxious to see tha
struggle ended.
WOULD AVERT NEW STRIKE
Mayor Mltchel said he and Mr. Straua
uould ask the ad i Ice and assistance of
tho committees In nn endcavo.- to, adjust the
dimcultles and preent the sympatheila
strlko which- the labor leaders have de
claral will be called 'f the trouble is nut
settled by ! t'clock Frldiy afternoon.
"Bcjoml this I can say nothing," raid tha
.Mayor,
It was regarded as significant today
that Police Commissioner Woods was con
tinuing to make preparations to meet any
emergency which might result from a i-prtad
of the strike.
That an effort will be made to call out
all of the 800.0U men and women union
workers In thjaXreater city unless ths
Mayor can brlnjjout. an amicable adjust
ment of tho traction strike haa been frankly
btated to the Mayor by the labor leaders.
Indication that the threat could be taken
seriously was given by the action of the
United Hebrew Trades, with a membership
of 200,000 men, women apd girls. They
have oted to strike the moment the carmen
give the word.
ACCIDENTS DUE TO STRIKE
Nearly "forty persons were Injrued, most"
of them girls 9a route to work. In four?
accidents today growing out 01 the street
car strike. '
A Jitney, automobile truck, crowded with
girls swerved sharply approaching tha
Willlamsburgh bridge and pitched Its two
score passengers Into the roadway. Soma
of them fell beneath other automobiles or" '
the heels of horses and received serious
Injuries. a
A Third avenue car, operated by a strike- ,,
breaker', Jumped tho track and crashed into)
a telegraph pole. The motorman and two
passengers wero Injured. Two cars In the
Bronx, operated by green motormen, were
in collision, but no one was Injured. The
police explained that strike-hardened Dronx
Ites always keep their eyes on their motor
men nowadays and Jump before the crash
comes.
Service on the subway and elevated lines
of the Interborough was normal early to
day, tlatns on surface car lines In Man
hattan and the Bronx were reported.
So complete was the tie-up of the Queens
County Railways that no cars appeared at
the Manhattan end of the bridge before
0:30 o'clock today.
TWO BRITISH SHIPS SUNK BY U-BOATS
LONDON, Sept. 19. The Urltish steamships Dewa and Lord Tredegar, both
largo and comparatively now ships, have been sunk by German submarines, it was
announced today. Tho Down was built In 1913 and displaced 3802 tons. The Lord
Tredegar was built a year later. It displaced 3SGC tons. Roth ships wero engaged
In the tran?at)nntlc trade. Tho Dewa hailed from ' Portland-, Mo., on July 19, for
Avonmouth. The Lord Tredegar left New York on August 24 for Far Eastern ports.
NATION'S LOWEST MORTALITY RATE RECORDED
WASHINGTON, Sept. 19. Only 13.5 persons out of every 1000 In the United
States died during 1915, according to figures by the Census Bureau today,
constitutes the lowest mortality rate ever recorded In this country.
This
STATE TO INVESTIGATE TYPHOID OUTBREAKS
IIARRIsnURG, Sept. 19. The State Department of Health will assist the
health authorities of Harrlsburg, Altoona and Coateavllle In ascertaining what
caused the recent outbreaks of typhoid fever in these three places. Experts of the
department will Investigate and endeavor to fix responsibility In order to prevent
recurrences In tho future.
2 TO 1 BETS REPORTED PLACED ON HUGHES
NEW "VOniC. Sept. 19. Betting on tho presidential election Ja more active
today than at any time during the campaign. Ono wager of 120,000 on Hughes
at two to ono was reported. Wilson money Is moro plentiful, though, than for the
last few weeks and odds on Hughes ore wavering at eight to five, One uptown
brokerage house, It, is said, has $100,000 to place on Wilson when the "odds are a
littlo better."
RlFT IN MEXICAN-AMERICAN CONFERENCE CLOSED
NEW LONPONr Conn., Sept, 19. Tho threatened rift In tho Mexican-American
conference appeared today to have been closed, at least temporarily. The American
commission has consented to give Immediate consideration to the withdrawal of
troops and to arrange for border protection. In this matter the Mexicans have
promised to send a force tp replace Pershing's men and pledge themselves to hunt
Villa to the"bltter end."
HENRY R. EDMUNDS
STRUCK BY AN AUTO
President of Education Board
Seriously Hurt While Alight
ing From Trolley Car
FRANK FEENEY HEADS ELEVATOR MEN'S UNION
Frank Ifeeney, former head of the Bureau of Elevator Inspection in Phila
delphia, was elected president of the International Union of Elevator Constructors
at o. salary of $5000 a year for a term of fU'a years at their convention Just closed
In Washington. Frank J. Schneider, of, this city, was ejected secretary and treas.
urer of the organization at a salary of 12600 a year for a flve-ywar term. President
Fceney Is the owner of a palatial summer home In the exclusive Chelsea section X
Atlantic City.
INTERBOROUGH REPORT SHOWS BIG EARNINGS
NEW YORK, Sept 19. The receipts of the Interborough Rapid Transit Com.
juny for the year ended June 30, according to the annual rapoft, were tHl,ig,
m incrtaw of f2,4(7,TK, or 7. J 5 par pant frow the previous yr, AfUr tb pay,
mm . sJJ xit:iM-, tho company 4 Vek f ar dhrWUaeW IUM4JJ: M tater pr
1M WMm cat tT.WMa. aw M v psatt. mM fttww a'arjait tUMMl
Henry R. Edmunds, president of tha
Board of Education and a prominent at
torney of this city, was badly Injured when
he was struck and knocked down by an
automobile 'at Sixth and Chestnut streets
today. Mr. Edmunds walked from the
scene of the accident to his office at 520
Walnut street with blood streaming down
hla face from Beveral cuts over his right
eye. He was In a dazed condition apd
for a time did not know what had hap
pened to him.
It Is feared he Is suffering from a slight
concussion of the brain. .Ilo Is seventy-six.
years old,
Mr Edmunds was on his way to bta of
fice at the time. Ills home Is In Fair
thorn mtnue, Roxborough. He had Juat '
albrhted from a Chestnut street car ap4 ys
making for the curb when the fiuUwwaWU
struck htm, according to wltneMea, Me
waa thrawji against tha curbing with graai
force and for a moment did iwt, move.
Unrecognized, he rose to hia feet ' '
started down Blxtt) street toward Walnut
Mounted Traffic PoVteeraan Tennent, "Vh
is stationed In front 'of Independence HM.
placed the driver at 'the nutemabHa uadafi
arrest He sW hie name was Oharlee X.
Etter, of 2US South Be4 s4rt
ICUer Mated that he saw Mr. KdrmUMU
alight fro, tha troMr d ma4 awy
effort to brtwt We, Mr U a atop, fcw t ,
brakes hM to htJM fr.' '
He was arraign a before 'Magtatrau .
noek in CautnU WaUan a4 feoM tMUr m
ball for a further baa tomorrow, at
which time It U epotd tha full extent et
Mr. Mdmunda'a Injuria will b kav ,
' ' ' ' ' o
ApfoiwM Ctarlc In Burvo MauraaM
DiraoUr Paletwan. of the nnsHm : a
:: . . m. - . T i" "V1 t
Pvtue wotfp, wtv ipum mm m
flat AlpMt jna WlfW
"
ttiPJsslllf fW
'1
V s
M
