THE ARIZONA REPUBLICAN
ASM INDEPENDENT PROGRESSIVE JOURNAL
TWENTY-SEVENTH YEAB
Auvuan YAVM?nOENIX, ARIZONA, TUESDAY MORNINtt, SEPTEMBER 19, 1916
10 PAGES
VOL. XXVIL, NO. 123
BRITISH STILL FORCMG BATTLE ALU
MiM
mm
aldiilefrdntbritishhi .
. advanced another thousand
, yards taking fortified work
.' (By Republican Associated Press Leased Wire)
Along a one-milt front the British have advanced another thousand
yards and have captured a German fortified work which had previously re
sisted all their efforts. This operation is characterized by General Haig, the
British commander, as important and highly successful. It is indicative of the
intention of the British commander to force the battle along the Somme
front without cessation, the new advance being a continuation of the power
ful movement undertaken by the British and French on Friday last.
North and south of the Somme in France, British and French troops are
keeping up their vigorous offensive, and have achieved further successes and
put down strong German counter attacks.
South of Combles the French have taken additional trenches, making
stronger their investment of the little town, which now is almost completely
surrounded. Having evacuated Oeniecourt, south of the river, the Germans
have been driven back about two-thirds of a mile toward Ablaincourt. South
of Barleux a German trench west of Horgny has been captured.
Fierce artillery fighting is still in progress in the sectors of the Peronne
Bapaume road. Sunday and Monday more than 1600 Germans were taken
prisoner by the French in the Oeniecourt sector.
Artillery is active in the Champagne region, on the Verdun front the
French have captured a trench on the southern slope of the famed Dead
Man's hill.
To stem the advance of the army of the central powers in the Oobrudja
region, Rumanians and Russians have ceased their retreat and definitely drawn
their battle line. This extends along the front of Rachova-Txopadin-Tuzla,
running from the Black sea to the Danube just south of the ancient Dutch
ram -art j known as Trajan's wall, which begins at Constanza on the sea and
runr, westward to the river. Both Sofia and Berlin report fresh advances in
this region, while in Transylvania the Rumanians are reported to be con
tinuing progress,
Petrograd is silent with regard to tha new large offensive started by the
Russians from the Pripet marsh in Russia down into the Carpathians, but
Berlin says tha Germans turned to the attack along the Narayuvka river in
Galicia, regained a greater portion of the territory lost to the Russians Sat
urday, inflicted heavy casualties on the Russians and took 3600 prisoners. In
the Carpathians along the Zlota Lipa river, between the Sereth and the
Strips rivers, and to the west of Lutsk, Russian attacks were repulsed with
heavy losses. '
In Macedonia the French troops have captured Fiorina, from the Bulgar
ians, who are reported by Paris to be retiring in disorder toward Monastir. In
the Lake Ostrovo region Serbs have gained additional ground. On the
Doiran front, where the British are engaged, only artillery engagements have
taken place.
Several successes of the Turks are related in a Constaninople report.
British cavalry detachments endeavoring to advance east from the Suez
canal were repulsed by the Turks, while on the Caucasius front, on the
right and left wings, Turkish forces are declared to have driven back the
Russians.
All of Germany's ports in East Africa now are in the hands of the British,
Lindi and Mikindani having been evacuated. In addition, the Germans have
been driven from the Uluguru hills and junction has been effected by the
British troops near Kisaaki.
Italians are holcvng their newly acquired positions on the Carso front
notwithstanding vigorous attacks by Austrians.
Nation-Wide Search For Members Of "Beauty " Squad
J& J& J& J& & J& !
TWO HUNDRED THOUSAND VOTE TO STRIKE
OWNERSHIP OF MILLS
IS NEWSPAPERS' HOPE
I ST. PAUL Sept. IS. Newspaper I
ownership of paper mills as a
. safeguard against a shortage pre-
vlnlnigup. . :engooN- etaoln oinnnnn
I vailing in the print paper market
! was advocated lv F. V. Allsopp, i
I publisher ot the Little Hook (Ark.)
! Gazette, in an Interview here to-
day during a brief stop in the
city of a score of southern newg-
paper publishers en route home
I from n conference at Internation-
al Falls. Minn. Mr. Allsopp sug
! Rented the alternative for pub
! Ushers of huyiriR up mill now In
! operation or establishing new
i plants sufficient to meet the pub
; lishers needs.
I
T
PRODUCTS OF
UNITED STATES
British Line Advances
LONDON', Sept. IS. The British
line has been advanced a thousand
aras along a one. miie front, savs
the official statement from general I
last night. A! Krem-h and Russians on their extreme
German work, flan!:, und the Serbians, urobilin; hv
; this Indecision, attacked energetically
hiH'iniirters issue!
IKiwerfullv fortified
known as the Quadrilateral,' has
la lien completely intu British hands.
Progress also wan made north of
Floi-rs, where heavy German counter
attacks were repulsed.
to prove o.Mtly by jeopardizing the
whule Bulgarian front.
The first wavering among the Bul
garians, si'vs the dispatch, was caused
i'v the unexpected pressure of the
P. Leased Wire
Sept. JS. The
Republican A
WASHINGTON',
i-ruiin tanks, the armored motor
cars used in recent assaults on Ger
inau ireucncs in nounern r ranee so
successfully as to attract world-wide
att-ntion. were otillt- for the most
part in Peoria, 111., in the form of
caterpillar tractors designed many
years before 'he war began to meet
some of the difficult problem of mod
ern farming. Except for their armor.
their machine gun and :heir crews.
j thoeHnls Pse them nre In uw today
'in ,1... ?... .... ..t
in mj i uiit.u f!11tvf III uiuw iiik IIIK
French Take Fiorina
PARIS, (via London.) Sept. IS.
Fiorina, an important town in north
western .Macedonia, was carried by
assault by French troops today, ac
cording to an official statement is
sued here tonight. The Bulgarians
are retiring in disorder in the direc
tion jionasnr. tr.e statement adds. n
Ner. inn troops also have gained suc-lchin;
on the twelfth and thirteenth. At
first th-j Serhan infantry made little
ImpresMon on the well-entrenched
Bulgarians, but aftr
bardtnenl with high
cess In the region of Lake Ostrovo.
orbians carried line ifter line of
trenches, compelled the Bulgarians to
aiwndnn the whole of their advanced j
position along the Matkanldze range.
The whole Bulgarian right wing
fell ha'-k and the entente allies oh-
(tainc-J command of the ranges doml-
r.ciLirii i ne rioima piam.
Athens dispatch to the Ex
Telegraph. Company describes
ging ditches, and other labors les
heroic then war.
M. M. Halier, vice president of the
Holt Manufacturing Company, ex
plained her today that it was ma
-vnn made bv his company at it
Peoria ptar.t that had hurdled German
trenches, walked through forests anil
a strong bom-j crawled over shell craters in the face-
explosives the t of intense gun fire.
thr- later phases of the coru'cnt ration
; of the attack on Fiorina, which was
When Bulqarians Wavered carried out with the greatest cecrecv.
Itispat' hes rc;t hing London describe i The ontingents were divided Into
the operations V.hich resulted in the! three narts in n cr.nirri?in!r imvmi.i.t
THOUSANDS ARE
ADDED TO ROLL
111 SYMPATHY
VILLA ATTACK WILL
CLARIFY RELATIONS
DRAGNET OUT
FOR ALLEGED
rapture by the entente allied forces
if I lorina. Macedonia.
According to Renter's Saloniki cor
respondent, the Bulgarians, in ex
tending their line so lar south as the
region of l.ke Ostrovo with limited
forces, played a bold, but dangerous
game. Success would have com
promised the whole entente allied
line, but lack of success was bound
to connect at Fiorina. The Russians
started from Verria. southwest of
Salou'ikl. and proceeded by force
marches. A French column was di
rected against the same, objective,
while the Serbians In the region of
Horovitz were ordered to repel the
Bulgarians from the heights In the
(Continued on Page Two)
"Wo have sold about 1.000 cater
pillar tractors to the British govern
ment.'' snid Mr. Baker. "We have
had nothing to do witn putting armor
on theni or placing machine guns,
but some of our men at Aldcrshot
Filmland, recently were notified tha
the P.ri'lsli governm: intended to
armcr some of the tractors and us"
them for work other than the usual
tow ir.g of big gurs.
"Germany had some o." these tract
ors hefore the war liegan. and al
though I do not understand just how
It occurred, 1 believe flic may have
got others ulnce then. We have sent
scne tn 1'iance and some to Bussie.
So far as I know, up until the recent
appearance of the motor cars the
tractors wore used only to tow big
guns. I understand :.iat Germany
had about orty of them in this work
before Liege early In the war and re-
fCnntinued on Page Two)
Battalion Of Regulars
Spent Night In Phoenix
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
NEW YORK. Kept. 18. The Cnited
Hebrew Trades, representing a mem
bership of 200.000 organized workmen,
tonight voted to go on a smpalliellc
strike as an aid to the striking carmen,
if they are called upon to do so by the
Central Federated I nion.
The vote wus taken at a meeting of
the delegates said to represent every I
craft in the Cnited States, including I
the garment industries In which many
wnmen are employed.
rive hundred motormen and con
ductors employed by the New York
and Queens County Railway company
went on strike at midnight. The strik
ers assert that ugrectnents entered in
to between the company and the men
wore broken when the railway officials
sent sixty-five motormen to Manhat
tan to do duty on the surface cars of
the New York Hallways company. The
Brooklyn and Richmond (Staten Is
land) now are the only boroughs of
the city not affected by the strike.
Arrangements were made to notify
the membership of 2'iO.OoO to be ready
to answer a strike call at any time.
Failure of negotiations being con
ducted by Mayor Mitchel to provide a
basis of setlcment of the traction
strike In this city will result in a cull
Thursday for a symathetic strike of
approximately "OO.oitO workers, union
leaders declared after a conference, late
today between representatives of sev
eral crafts.
The call wH-W isued. it i stated,
to all unions affiliated with the Cen
tral Federated Cnion of New York,
the Central Labor Cniin of Brooklyn,
and the Federated t'nion of the
Bronx, Westchester and Yonkers.
Some of the unions already have auth
orized a strike, union leaders said, and
refcrendums are in progress In others.
Theodore I'. Shonts. president of the
Interborough Rapid Transit company
and the New York Railways company,
late today issued a statement In which
he said the companies would refuse to
confer further with the strikers. This
announcement was made after Mr.
Shonts had been Informed that Mayor
Mitchel had agreed to act with Oscar
S. Straus, chairman of the public ser
vice commission, in an attempt to
bring the strikers and companies to
gether. Mayor Mitchel announced tonight
that he had asked the citizens' commit
tee of the Chamber of Commerce and
representatives of the Merchants' as
sociation to meet with him tomorrow
to discuss the situation.
During the day he conferred with
labor leaders but no practical plan was
evolved to settle the difficulties.
Traffic on the aubway and elevated
lines continued normal today and there
was a noticeable improvement in sur
face car conditions.
Some violence was reported and
several arrests were made.
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
NKW LONDON, Conn., Sept. 18.
Villa's attack on Chihuahua City,
Mex., and the repulse of his forces by
General Trevino will tend to clarify
relations between Mexico and the
Cnited States, in the opinion of .Mex
ican representatives In session here to
formulate a program for maintaining
order along the border. The Chihuta
hua battle figured prominently in the
dlscussiosis today.
The Mexican commissioners pointed
out that If Villa had been located by
the action at Chihuahua, the task of
running him down would ie greatly
simplified. General Trevino, they said,
now will pursue Villa relentlessly. The
difficulty never had been to fight Vil
la, they said, but to find him.
It had been expected the discussions
lean members brought sharply to the
front, however, the question of border
control and of the American troops in
Mexico. This was due to an official
communication from their government
In which they were asked why they
were discussing the internal affairs of
their country with the representatives
of another government instead of con
fining their debates to conditions on
the border.
Secretary Lane tiid not regard the
insistence of the Mexican members on
a discussion of border problems as
shutting out entirely the discussion of
other problems regarded by the Amer
ican members as fundamentals in the
general situation.
Luis Cabrera, head of the Mexican
commission, explained that the inquiry
from his government was no doubt
today would be directed toward the I based on the receipt of unofficial and
internal affairs of Mexico, lhe Mex- Inaccurate reports of the conference.
ENTIRE STATE
TIDE TO 8E
T
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
NKW Y'ORK. Sept. 18. Candidates
for United States senator and a com
plete state ticket will be nominated at
the state-wide primary tomorrow.
Chief interest in the election appar
ently centered tonight in whether the
former leaders of the progressive
Hi
OF EIGHT
m
I
S
LUN
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
WASHINGTON, Sept. 18. No offi
cial confirmation of the reported en
gagement Saturday morning lietween
the de facto troons and Villa forces at
I Chihuahua City has been received
here and officials believe published
nartv will be able to swing the votes "tones ot me aitair nave exaggerate
of a maioritv of the rank and file to "a importance.
Tired, dusty and travel worn, but
glad to get away from garrison life at
Douglas, where they have lieen sta
tioned for the past three years, ono
battalion of the lXth l.'nited States
Infantry, consisting of 214 men and
officers, arrived In I'hoenix last night,
conveyed in 19 Velio motor trucks.
Three days hard travel across the
deserts of Arizona Is not conducive to
cleanliness. It was practically impos
sible when the men rolled in Van
Buren street last night to tell their
. faces from their khaki colored clothes.
The officers who rode in the light cars
preceding the trucks, were envied by
all.
The command as originally consti
tuted when it left Douglas was com
posed of two battalions. One from the
14th Infantr- and one from the 18th,
under the command of Lieut. Col. C.
H. Martin of the ISth. Yesterday at
Florence, orders were received for the
battalion from the 14th to turn back
and make haste for Douglas. The bat
talion of the ISth came on to I'hoenix.
A Taste of Military Life
For the first time In years, or in fact
since a detachment of the Rough Rid
ers left here in -S8. I'hoenix was last
night given a real taste of what mil
itary life In the field really Is. Thous
ands of Phoenicians gathered as the
trucks rolled in to the Central school
grounds, watched the men unload from
tho trucks, form in companies, get the
commands to spread out In camp for
mation, and saw the pup tents stick
their stub noses to the sky. It wrs a I
lesson on how little man requires
officer's tents had been put up, desks,
tables and chairs unfolded, and the
camp took the appearance of having
been made to order.
Col. Martin, was glad to talk to vis
itors last night, and explained every
when he gets along with the necessary detail as it came up. The men were
requisites or nie and nothing more.
The men are equipped with what la
called "Kquipment A" or light march
ing order. They are not carrying the
three days' rations, as they would,
were they actively in the field, but
carry light camp cooking outfits. Each
man carries his half tent, blanket, tar
paulin, rifle, sweater, bayonet, and
water bottle. I
In less than an hour after the com-
not held In strict bounds, only two or
three sentries being placed, these to
guard the trucks,, and headquarters
tents. As soon as things were in mil
itary shape, some one Inquired the di
rection In which the Y. M. C. A. was
located and then the rush started. The
showers and pool at that institution
were overcrowded. It seemed like a
gift from heaven to get out from un
der the heavy coat of dust accumu-
mand unloaded from their trucks, the lated on the desert.
camp was laid out In geometrical I Art Itlck, proprietor of the Colura-
lines. and the tents had been erected.f
At -the west side of the grounds the- Continued on Page Three)
WANT CARS TO TAKE THE
SOLDIERS FOR A DRIVE
A'ter a dinner to the officers with
the troops arriving yesterday, it
waj announced the truck train
would not leave until 10 this
morning. The Red Cross officials
then issued a call for , volunteers
with automobile to assemble on
I the First Avenue side of the Cen- I
I tral school block at 8 o'clock, to I
I take as many officers and men as I
I can he spared for a drive. I
J I
D
President Returns From
1
Funeral Of His Sister
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
COI UMIilA. 8. C. Sept. 18 Presi
dent Wilson, who came here today for
the funeral of his only Bister, Mrs.
Annie K. Hove, left at (!:ir, o'clock
this evening for the summer White
House at Long Branch, N. J. He will
urrive at West End. N. J., shortly
after, 2 o'clock tomorrow afternoon
and fro by automobile to Shadow
Lawn. '
After the funeral the president took
an automobile ride around Columbia
visiting relatives and place he had
Known in his boyhood davs. lie was
accompanied 'by Mrs. Wilson, Miss
Margaret Wilson and Dr. Grayson, the
White House physician.
When the president' special tr.iin
pniieti
out, several thousand neenlu
....ougeu me station and stood silentlv I anvthing like that on you
with heads bared. The president 1 Wilon.
bowej quietly.
- Op hl. ride the president visited
Mrs. James oodrow, an sunt, wno
welcomed him as "Tommy," nud re
marked to Mrs. Wilson "since he tot h
to writing books he calls nimself
Woodrow."
Mr. "Wilson also called at the Co
lumbia Theological seminary and wa:
shown the chair and room used by his
father as an Instructor there. He wag
told of a plan to name a library
Planned by the seminary, after his
father. Afterwards he walked lo the
house built by his parents nnd 1n
which he lived for several years
There re talked with four small boys
who now live In the nouse. Dr. Gray
son asked one of them if he expected
to be president. "I would not wish
said Mr.
THREE ARE KILLED
WHEN TWO EXTRA
FREIGHTS COLLIDE
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
PCKBLO, Colo.. Sept. IS Three
men were killed and three injured to
day when two extra freight trains on
the Missouri Pacific railway collided
head-on near Stuart, Colo. The (lead
ire: Roy Scott, Ernest Holley and
William Isbester. all of this city. The
two former were firemen and Isbester
an engineer.
Two cars loaded with gasoline hlew
up and the wreckage was set on fire.
Telegraph wires were torn down by
the heaped up cars and traffic held up
for several hours.
Governor Charles S. Whitman, leading
republican candidate for governor. One
wing of the jiarty favors the election
of Judge Samuel Seabury, whose can
didacy for governor on the democratic
ticket is unopposed.
National as well as state leaders of
both parties are deeply interested In
the outcome of the progressive pri
mary contest for they believe it may
have an important bearing upon the
outcome of the presidential campaign
in New l ork. It is conceded by both
sides that a majority of those who
vote for Governor Whitman in the pri
maries will support Charles K. Hughes
for president while most of those who
support Judge Seabury will vote for
President Wilson.
Next to the fight for progressive
support, the most important contest to
be settled tomorrow is that between
Robert Bacon, former ambassador to
France, and William H. Calder, a
former congressman, for the republi
can nomination for the Lnited States
senate. Mr. Bacon did not enter the
lists until a few weeks ago and hs
based his appeal for support largely
upon his advocacy of military prepar
edness. An incident of the day was
the publication of a letter from Theo
dore Roosevelt urging Mr. Bacon's
nomination on the preparedness issue
Many of the county and district lead
ers of the state have lent their support
to Mr. Calder. who began his cam
palgn nearly two years ago.
The democrats also have a contest
on their hands for the senatorial nom
ination, but managers of the cam
paign of William F. McCombs, former
chairman of the democratic national
committee, who was designated for the
(Continued on Page Two)
An official despatch late today told
of a border rumor that part of the
Chihuahua City garrison had revolted.
but that the uprising speedily had
been suppressed.
Collector Cobb at El Paso reported
that both wire and train service he
tween Juarez and Chihuahua City had
been interrupted. Some army officers
called attention to the fact that the
Carranza troops had been celebrating
for several days the Mexican Indepen
dence anniversary and suggested that
some irresponsible faction may have
started a revolt for the purpose of lib
erating the prisoners in the Chihua
hua penitentiary.
Reign of Terror Exists
LAREDO. Texas, Sept. IS Trust
worthy advices brought to Laredo to
night indicate a reign of terror exists
in the state of San Luis Potosi, Mex
ico, extending from the Neuvo Leon
state line to Queretaro. owing to the
activities of bandits said to be under
the leadership of the Cedillo brothers,
who call themselves Legalistas. Men
forme-iv identified with General Car
rero Torres are also said to be in the
bands.
One passenger from San Luis Poto
si reported tonight that General Da-vila,-governor
of San Luis Potosi, was
called to Mexico City to fill a cabinet
portfolio last week hut that while en
route ever" officer of his staff was
killed. Davila was dressed in civilian
clothes, took to the brush and suc
ceeded in reachin" San Luis I'otosi
Engagements occurred last Friday and
Saturday at Doctor Arroyo in Nuevo
I,eon. and Norecaga, San Luis Potosi,
In which the Carranza troops were re-
CContlnued on Page Two)
URGE LONGSHOREMEN OUT
Republican A. P, Leased Wire
SEATTLE. Wash.. Sept. 18. A gen
eral strike of longshoremen on the At
lantic coast In sympathy with the
striking longshoremen on the l"acific
coast will be urged upon the officials
of the International union, it was an
nounced tonight by J. A. Madsen, secretary-treasurer
of the Pacific dis
trict. International Longshoremen's As
sociation or America.
o
Mining Engineers
Due In Douglas
For Convention
FLIGHT MEXICO IV BR
PRDTEST FROM DE FACTO HEADS
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
DO COLAS, Sept. IS. When the
special train, bearing the delegates of
the convention of the American Insti
tute of Mining Engineers, reaches
here Tuesday morning, It will he met
by a committee of smelter heads with
a band.
Visits to the reduction plants of
the Copper Queen and Calumet an 1
Arizona Mining companies are sched
uled for the morning.
The afternoon and evening sessions
will be devoted to technical subjects.
An automobile tour of the district,
band concert and tea have been ar
ranged for the entertainment of the
feminine members of the party.
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
rxiCGLAS. Sept. IS. Lieutenants
Thomas Bowen and Carl Spates, who
arrived in Douglas Friday from Co
lumbus, N. M., on a triai flight, left
here today for their base at Colum
bus. The machine maneuvered over
Douglas lor half an hour, during the
course of machinery tests and was
seen hy hundreds of early risers. It
also flew for a mile or two over Mex
ican territory before taking an east
ward course. As a result It was stat
ed tn Agua Prietn today, a protest
might be filed with the American
government for alleged violation of
territorial rights of Mexico.
Sergeant Thomas Rogers, company
II, and Private Frank E. Macke'y.
company E., Second Montana infantry
who have been absent from their regi
mental camp for a. week without leav
nnd were reported to hnve been mur
dered In Mexico, have been located H
Cananea by Carranza secret servi'H
men. Recording to the statement of M
Castillo, acting consul tir Mexico,
here.
Castillo said todav that he had re
reived the report in person and that
the man bringing It had talke'ii with
Roger who was looking for work for
r.lriT'r and Muckev. The detective
told Kogerst, Castillo said, that ho
should apply to the management of
the Cananea company, but Rogers re
fused, saying that he nnd his com
panion were deserter from the Amer
ican army and would be given no
work by Americans,
The operative also reported, Castillo
said, that there were five American
deseiters now In Cananea, including
the Montana men. Castillo said he
had reported to army officers here
nnd further investigation 4 would be
dropped.
Republican A. P. Leased Wirsf
CHICAGO. Sent. 18 While federal
authorities here prepared tonight for
preliminary hearing tomorrow ot
seven members of an alleged black
mail gang who used the Mann act as
their chief wjapon, detectives, forti
fied with information obtained irom
two alleged members of the gang who
confessed, made arrests in other cities
and spread a dragnet for H. C. Wood
ward, sought as director in chief of
the syndicate.
Hinton G. Clabaugh. of the United
States department of justice, declared
tonight he iiad secured sufficient evi
dence to convict the gang without
exoosing the- names of some of their
wealthy victims. It was understood
that none of the names of victims
would be bared at the hearing to
morrow. These victims, whose flirta
tions with pretty women led them
into traps from which they escapel
only on payment of large sums, will
be shielded from publicity except as
a last resort, it is said.
Clabaugh expects the seven will be
ordered removed to Philadelphia for
trial without a stubborn resistenco
before the commissioner.
According to Clabaugh. two of tho
alleged gangsters, "Dick" Barrett and
Edward J. Thompson, confessed to tha
charges and" revealed the manner in
which blackmail had been levied in
several instances Their story was re
plete with accounts of clever new race
track swindles and other ruses by
which beautiful women and debonair,
handsome men had fleeced their
victim. .
The other men who have been ar
rested and who remain in jail here
pending establishment of bail in tho
aggregate sum of approximately $10",
000, would say nothing today of their
alleged offenses, but the women were
vociferous in their denials of the ac
cusations. Mrs. Helen Evers, who, isay federal
authorities, was the lure in the bogus
Mann act cases, stamped her trim
foot on the floor of her cell and said
there is not a word of truth in the
charges. She was particularly insis
tent about the falsity of the charge
that an opium outfit had been found
in her rooms.
"Why I never smoked opium in my
life." she declared.
Mrs. Frances Chapman said nnthinsr
but .Mrs. Evers indignantly insisted
that Mrs. Chapman's arrest was "an
outrage" that she was just a visitor
at the fa-shionable apartment when tho
raid was made.
Mrs. Edward Donohue. older than
the other women, surrounded herself,
even in jail, with an air of outraged
dignity.
"Ridiculous: too ridiculous even to
deny," she asserted.
Clabaugh learned tonight of the ar
rest in New- Y'ork of Frank Crocker,
who is said to have confessed to a
part in the swindling of Mrs. Regina
Klipper of Philadelphia; and the ar
rest in the latter city of William But
ler in connection with the alleged plot
against Mrs. Susan G. S. Winpenny.
George Irwin, who is said to ne tne
husband of Mrs Evers. and Woodward
are being sought throughout the coun
try tonight. Federal officers say Ir
win was arrested last June on a
charge of blackmail and was held un
der J'i.OOO hail which he forfeited. It
is believed he now is in New Y'ork.
The alleged fleecing of Mrs. Klip
per, it was said, was brought about
through Crocker. After having won
her confidence, say the authorities,
Crocker managed to place her in a po
sition in which her reputation was en
dangered, with Donohue and Irwin as
witnesses. The latter two demanded
"hush money." It was said Crocker
accepted jewels, which later proved
valueless, and he gave the police con
fession which caused Irwin's arrest.
Crockej-, however, is said to have re
joined the band subsequently.
The mystery surrounding the killing
of William Turner, alias W llson, itr a
mountain resort ill Jefferson county.
Colorado, last June, may be cleared up
through some members of the black
mail syndicate, it was reported to
night. Turner was said to have leen
slain following an argument over the
division of spoils in a blackmail
scheme in which a Denver woman waa
said to have been the victim.
Seeking C. E. Wilson
DENVER, Sept. IS. Samuel TV.
Johnson, district attorney of Jefferson
(Continued on Page Five)
One Banker Suicides And
Four Others Are Indicted
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
CHICAGO, Sept. 18. The suicide of
Joseph Tuma, head of tha Tuma Sav
ings bank, a private institution, and
the indictment of four private bank
ers, were the latest developments to
day In Chicago's "epidemic" of pri
vate bank failures, and a general in
quiry into their institutions. '
Tuma's bank, the state's attorney
said, was to have been investigated.
The banker's counsel, however, said
the suicide was due to ill health and
pverwork, and that the bank is sol
vent. The state's nttorney sent of
ficers to Tuma's hank immediately
after the suicide with instructions to
investigate.
Tuma stood on a pier," fired a shot
into his head, and fell into Lake
Michigan,
The state's attorney announced that
the grand jury today had voted true
hills against Michael and Stephen.
Michniuk on charges of receiving de
posits while their private bank was
insolvent, and against Moses Ginsburg'
and his son Emanuel, who conducted
another private bank, on the samo
charge.
Runs continued today on some pri
vate banks known to be solvent and
which had no difficulty in meeting tho
demand.
When Mrs. Tuma, the banker's w ife,
was informed of his suicide tonight,
she said he had loaned JfiO.000 to a
contractor and that payment was ov
erdue. To recoup his cash on hand,
she said, lie . had sought to borrow
$10,000 from a downtown Iiank today
but was unsuccessful.
A
