I
3
Interior
The
TThis Paper Stops When
Your Time Is Up. See
Date on Your Label
NAL
This Label Is Either a R
or'"lai
IcS
ceipt or a Bill
Does It Sa3 ?
;o,ti
-
.
a.J
Established 1860.57th Year.-No. 74
Stanford, Lincoln County, Kentucky, Tuesday, September 19, 1916.
Tuesdays and Fridays
Jour
ADAIR LOOKS GOOD
HELM TALKS TO APPRECIATIVE
AUDIENCE MONDAY
Follows Ed Morrow at Columbia And
Shows Beyond Doubt Why Wil
son Should Be Re-elected
Congressman Harvey Helm return
ed Tuesday morning from Columbia,
Adair county, where he spoke to a
large crowd Monday. It was court
day and voters were there from the
far ends of the county. Hon. Edwin
P. Morrow had the call on the court
house, he having been advertised to
speak there for nearly a month. Mr.
Morrow spoke, after a lengthy intro
duction by Judge Wallace Jones and
made what Mr. Helm termed "a cred
itable republican speech." He was
not abusive nor did he ridicule the
opposing party, as so many of the re
publican spellbinders do. He touch
ed on the Mexican situation, and de
clared that President Wilson should
have declared war on Germany for
sinking the Lusitania. He was with
out doubt forgetful that Congress,
and not the president, calls the coun
try to war, and this being the case,
some big republican leader might
have introduced a resolution calling
for war. But this was not done, as
all know.
The republicans listened well to
Mr. Morrow's remarks, but they were
evidently not in a humor for ap
plauding as that demonstration was
conspicuous by its absence. Mr.
Morrow's discussion of the tariff was
what might have been expected of a
republican speaker they all claim to
want a high protective tariff.
At the conclusion of his speech,
Mr. Morrow left for Lebanon where
lie was billed to speak that evening.
He insisted on the crowd remaining
to hear Mr. Helm and it did so and
was well repaid for so doing. !
Congressman Helm was introduced
by County Attorney Gordon Mont
gomery, a close relative of Hon. C.
F. Montgomery, of Liberty. Mr.
Montgomery led his relative's fight
in Adair in August but he is just as i
warm for Mr. Helm now as he was I
for Senator Montgomery then. His!
speech was splendidly received and
from what can be gathered, he really
outdid himself. Mr. Helm found his
hearers most responsive and he ad
mits that he never spoke to a more
courteous audience. His references
to Mr. Wilson were vociferously ap
plauded, many of the republicans
joining in the cheering. Congress
man Helm declared hat the re-election
of President Wilson means continued
peace and prosperity and that now,
above all others, is the time to con
sider the man. He told of the
achievements of the party under
democratic rule and said that four
years more of it would put the coun
try in such shape that the people
would want the democrats in power
for all time hence. After he had
concluded his remarks, many of his
hearers gathered to shake his hand
ar.d pledge their support to him and
the entire democratic ticket in No-
ember. Quite a number of former
Progressives were among those who
extended warmest congratulations.
Mr. Helm was greatly pleased with
the day's work and feels that it was
a regular field day for democracy.
He thinks that Adair county is in bet
ter shape from a democratic stand
point than it has been since it was
placed in the Eighth congressional
district, and he expects good reports
from thue in November.
CONGRESSMAN HELM TO SPEAK
Congressman Harvey Helm will
speak at Waynesburg Saturday af
ternoon, next, 23rd, at 2 o'clock, and
at Kings Mountain that night at
G:30. People generally are invited
to hear him.
TRYING TO GET HEFLIN.
Congressman Harvey Helm is try
ing to get Hon. Thomas J. Heflin, of
Alabama, to speak here next court
day. If Mr. Heflin is not secured,
some other prominent democrat will
speak at 1 o'clock that day.
PIE SUPPER FRIDAY NIGHT
There will be a pie supper at the
school-house at Preachersville Friday
night, next, the proceeds to go to the
improvement of the school.
Are You Looking Old?
Old age comes quick enough with
out inviting it. Some look old at
forty. That is because they neglect
the liver and bowels. Keep your
bowels regular and your liver heal
thy and you will not only feel young
er but look younger. When troubled
with constipation or biliousness take
Chamberlain's Tablets. They are in
tended especially for these ailments
and are excellent. Easy to take and
most agreeable in effect. Obtain
able everywhere.
Don't forget that after Oct. 1st,
tfee I. J. subscription price will fee
$1.50 a year but till tfeea you may
subscribe for as many years ia aa
raace as you wik at $1 a year.
The War Last Week
Teutonic allies were assailed from
every direction during the week and,
aside from occasional claims from
Berlin and Vienna that attacks in
certain quarters had failed, reports
made a story of almost unbroken
progress for the entente allies.
On the Saloniki front, where the
troops of nearly all the entente al
lies are fighting, the British crossed
the Struma River and attacked Bul
garians, withdrawing a few days
later, but Servians continued an of
fensive in Macedonia and reported
important gains. Bulgars were also
said to be retreating from Greece,
invaded with some success a few
weeks ago, and likewise abandoning
Varna, their principal port on the
Black Sea.
Rumanians continued their offen
sive against Austrians in Transylva
nia, forcing the enemy to retreat,
this result being admitted by Vienna.
Russian progress in the Carpathian
region was not disputed, but Ber
lin claimed to have checked their
advance toward Lemberg from the
southeast. The Muscovites also
made headway in their operations
against the Bulgarians in conjunc
tion with Rumanian forces.
On the west front the French and
English armies reported highly im
portant successes, the former hav
ing cut the Bapaume-Peronne road,
constituting a vital line of commu
nication for the Germans. This ad
vantage was strengthened by the
taking of German trenches near
Combles. Violent counter attacks
by the Teutons were reported to
have been repulsed.
Italian armies operating on the
Trentino front announced important
gains.
A council of war by notables of
the Teutonic allies was held, the
Kaiser being in attendance, as was
the King and Crown Prince of Bul
garia. Developments in Greece tending
to hasten the formal entry of that
country into the struggle on the
side of the entente allies.
New armored war cars that belch
destruction and move unhampered
by mounds, stumps or craters led the
way in the British drive in the Som-
me Friday, I'hich resulted in one of j
the most extensive strokes of the
offensive, and gave the Germans a
startling surprise. The juggernauts
penetrated to third-line trenches.
The Latest
The British line has advanced 1000
yards on a mile front and captured
a powerfully fortified German work
called the "Quadrilateral." South
of Combles, on the SommT" front,
the French have carried another
group of German trenches. Desper
ate fighting continues around Denie
court, while actions both in the
Champagne district and on the Ver
dun front, where the French cap
tured a trench on Deadman Hill, are
recorded.
French forces have captured the
important city of Fiorina in Macedo
nia and all Bulgarians are retiring
in disorder toward Monastir.
JOHN NEVIUS HURT ON TRAIN
John B. Nevius, son of Mrs. Mattie
Nevius, of this city, 'was knocked off
a freight train upon which he was
braking near Brodhead last week and
sustained injuries which laid him up
for a short time. It is said to have
been a wonder that he was not very
seriously injured. His home is at
Lebanon Junction.
JOHN J. CARTER, P. M.
The Interior Journal's young
friend, John J. Carter, of Danville,
is now a postmaster. Station A., of
the Danville postoflice has been
placed in his store near the Q. & C.
depot and the splendid democrat
above mentioned has been made
postmaster. He will make a good
one.
COLORED CHURCH NOTICE.
Reopening of the St. James A. M.
E. church, Stanford, Ky., September
24th. The pastor, trustees and mem
bers extend to the public a cordial
invitation to attend the reopening of
their church. A special program will
be rendered' in the afternoon.
NOTICE TO CONTRACTORS!
All contractors on county Toad
work not having filled their contract
by October 15th, next, as agreed,
will forfeit their bond. (Signed)
J. L. McKee Riffe, County Road En
gineer. 74-2
Constipation the Father of Many Ills
Of the numerous ills that affect
humanity a large share start with
constipation. Keep your bowels reg
ular and1 they may be avoided. When
a laxative is needed take Chamber
lain's Tablets. They not only move
the bowels but improve the appetite
and strengthen the digestion. Ob
tainable cerywhere.
Sunday School Workers
To Meet in State Association At
Somerset Oct. 5 to 8
Lincoln Sunday-school workers
have received invitations from Som
erset to attend the convention of the
Kentucky Sunday School Associa
tion which will be held there Octo
ber 5 to 8. Reservations are being
made for the large number of dele
gates that are expected to attend.
One of ithe most interesting pro
grams' that has ever been planned j
will be given. Meetings will be
held in the Somerset churches and
open air services will be held in the
beautiful Somerset public square.
Among the most prominent speak
ers are : Marion Lawrence, general j
secretary International Sunday
school Association; Mrs. Phoebe A.
Curtiss. elementary superintendent j
Ohio Sunday-school Association;
Miss Nannie Lee Frayser, elementa
ry superintendent Kentucky Sunday
school Association; Rev. Charles D.
Bulla, Superintendent Wesley Bible
Class Department, Methodist church,
South; Dr. J. R. Sampey, Southern
Baptist Theological Seminary; Dr.
R. H. Crossfield, president Transyl
vania College; Dr. W. A. Ganfield,
president Centre College, and Dr. J.
W. McGlothlin, Southern Baptist
Theological Seminary. The pro
grams cover a wide range of sub
jects and every branch of Sunday
school work will be discussed by ex
perts who have made a special study
of the subjects.
News of the Churches
Rev. G. W. Hasty will preach Sun
day afternoon at 2.30 o'clock at Ma
son's Gap. All are invited to hear
him.
The eighty-fourth annual confer
ence of the Christian churches of
Kentucky is being held in Winches
ter, where arrangements have been
made to accommodate 1.000 guests.
On next Sunday, Sept. 24th, at
11 a. m., the pastor of the Baptist
church will, by the request of a num
ber of friends outside of the mem
bership, preach a special sermon on
the New Birth "Ye Must Be Born
Again." An invitation -is -extended
to all who are interested to know
whether or not they have ever really
been redeemed from sin.
O. H. Bagby, a cousin of Mrs. M.
D. Early, will speak at the service at
the Baptist church Wednesday night
upon the Baptist missionary work in
Brazil. Mr. Bagby is a native of that
South American republic, his father
having been the first missionary sent
to Brazil by the Southern Baptist
Convention in 1881. The young
man has been taking- a course in
Richmond College, Richmond, Va.,
preparing himself to become a medi
cal missionary.
SCOTT ALEXANDER
Miss Morten Scott, a most attract
ive young lady of the Cedar Creek
section and B. W. Alexander, of Ir
vine, Estill county, took their many
friends by surprise when they drove
to Stanford Saturday and were unit
ed in matrimony's holy bonds by Rev.
W. D. Welburn, of the Methodist
church. They were accompanied by
the bride's sister, Miss Fannie Scott
and Paul Noland, who were witness
es at the wedding. Soon afterward
they took a train for Irivine to make
their home. The bride is the daugh
ter of Walter Scott, a well known
farmer of the Cedar Creek section,
and is very popular and attractive.
The groom is a prominent young far
mer of Estill county. A host of loved
ones and friends extend heartiest
congratulations and good wishes.
DANVILLE COURT DAY.
About the average crowd attend
ed Danville court Monday, but busi
ness generally was slow. Only a few
cattle were on the market and they
were picked up quickly. A small
bunch of heifers brought 6 1-2 cents,
a few steers 7 cents, and some
butcher stuff went at 5 to 5 1-2
cents. The mule market was very
quiet, only a few selling. Prices
ranged from $130 to $176. Several
war horses were bought around the
$100 mark. A number of engage
ments of mule colts were made at
$60 to $90.
.
CARTER BUYS WEST PLACE
Through Real Estate Dealer A. B.
Florence of Stanford, J.W. West last
week sold his house and five acres of
land to George W. Carter for $4,000.
This place is located on the edge of
Stanford, on the Lancaster pike, op
posite the home .of S. J. Embry, and
is acknowledged to be one of the
most attractive suburban homes in
or about Stanford. Mr. Carter re
cently sold his farm on the Huston
ville pike to P. T. Reynolds, of Rood
house, 111., and has been looking for
a' new location since.
General News Notes
Prohibition carried by 5,000 ma
jority in British Columbia last week.
The German submarine Bremen is
expected to reach America this week.
Gallatin county sold $50,000 road
bonds at $1,225 premium to Mayer
& Co., of Cincinnati.
State University, Lexington, open
ed with 908 students, the largest at -
tendance in its history.
Roosevelt will probably be sent in-
to Kentucky and Missouri
speeches in favor of Hughes
Henrv Eden. 18 vears old. was in-
dieted in Rowan county for the , warrants, was removed from his
murder of his father. pocket. These warrants will be of
Germany denies that she has seized , little value to the thief however, as
the entire cash in the Belgian Na- Lincoln county at present has no
tional Bank. '' money with which to pay them and
The Farmers' and Merchants' j should an effort be made to cash
Bank, of Catlettsburg, with $50,000 them' a clew miSht be finished to
capital, was chartered last week. I the Pickpocket. Judge Bailey re
Mrs. James Price and four chil- Ported his loss to the Louisville po
dren died in Lawrence county last lice and the Post had the following
week from eating poisoned cabbage. ' item about the theft: "J' R BaiIey'
E. J. Marshall, a Grant county of Stanford was the victim of a pick
farmer, is reported to have gathered Pocket at the State fair Srounds on
beans a yard long from his garden. Thursday niSht- Money and FaPers
Seven states will vote upon pro '
hibition November 7. They are Cal-
ifornia, Montana, Michigan, Nebras-
ka, South Dakota, Idaho, Missouri.
Harry Garrison, negro, of Kenton
convicted of criminal assault, will
be electrocuted Nov. 17th, at Eddy
ville. Villa, with GOO followers, attacked
Chihuahua City and was repulsed
with heavy losses. Those taken cap-
" J "-"'' ,.,,"'" K
live were executed. vuia escaped.
nu. ei. . t i m to ,
The State Bank & Trust Company,
rf"v-4- UnliwnIoKilwv Unrt -m rt n n r si rl v4-n I
:r;.rr;t: . r
000.
W. L. Scott, aged 84, died sudden-
ly on his farm in Shelby county last !
,00i- tt o,i 1,,-c Ur.tA ua ,-.,.
trv. lie tti in uu uimv iuu judu
returned from their
spent in Colorado.
honevmoon
Mrs. Annie E. Howe, only sister
of President Wilson, died of peri-. Saturdav afternoon, returning from
tombs at New London, Conn. The the stae Fair at Lou;sviiie. He
body will be taken to Columbia, S.jwas acCompanied by his friend,
C, for burial. John w whinnerv, of East Orange,
Mrs. Mousie Robinson, who was N Jm CoL Gibson has just been ap
given from 8 to 21 years in the pen pointed Campaign Chairman for the
for killing her husband, John Robin-, Democratic fight this fall in Pulaski
son, at Mossy Bottom, Pike county, C0Unty, though for some reason or
escaped from the Pikeri&HJk
President "Wilson will make his
first speech of the campaign at Shad- RQwe, former policeman at Burnside
ow Lawn Saturday to the business is the chairman. No finer selection
men of New Jersey. He will discuss for the place could have been made
the provisions of the eight-bour rail- than that of Col. Gibson, who has
road law. jled winning fights before, and is
Nine shares of Citizens National backed by the active, working demo
Bank stock, Danville, sold at public tcrats 0f Pulaski county almost to a
auction there Monday at $200. Hop J man He has a wide reputation over
Myer was the purchaser and Mrs. the county, knows how to organize
Allin, of Kentucky Woman's College ' and wjh come nearere than any oth
sld it. er man to breaking in the rock-rib-
Gen. Basil Duke, famous Conf ed-1 bed republican majority down there,
erate soldier, lawyer and historian, , The best thing the Journal can do
died in a New York hospital Satur- js to come out and support Chair
day morning following the amputa-; man Gibson like a man. The politi
tion of his foot several days ago. The j cai column of the Cincinnati Enquir
burial was at Lexington. J er Sunday told the following about
Attendance records were broken the chairmanship tangle in Pulaski:
by this year's state fair which Joseph A. Gibson, of Somerset,
closed at Louisville Saturday night, banker, has upon application of a
Exactly 118,807 people visited the host of Democrats in his home town
fair this year, 4,381 more than in , ancj county been appointed by
any previous year. Chairman Cantrill Campaign Chair-
"Bad Mose" Feltner, who played a ' man f or Pulaski county, and it is
big role in the, Hargis-Cockrell feud said that the democrats under his
in Breathitt county, was shot to leadership are building a strong or
death by United States Deputy Mar-' ganization for the fight in the home
shal G. A. Sizemore at Hazard, ' 0f Edwin P. Morrow. It was an
when he refused to go to jail on a jounced that Joseph Rowe, of Burn
charge of moonshining. j sjde, had been selected by the Pu
, November will see the completion laski County Committee for Cam
of Lock No. 14, the last of fourteen pajgn Chairman, but this developed
to be built by the United States' to have been incorrect, since there
Government to permit water-line was no certification to the state
tapping of the rich Eastern Kentuc- headquarters that there had ever
ky coal fields. .The lock is located been a quorum present upon call for
at Heidelburg, ILee county. i a meeting of the committee. Chair-
J. E. McGlone, circuit clerk of man Cantrill sent a representative
Carter county, with 6 indictments ( to Somerset to ascertain the facts
against him for stealing $8,000 byjan(i following his report upon the
making out false witness claims, situation he asked the Democrats of
pleaded guilty, gave back the money the county to say whom they desired
and was immediately pardoned byjfor Chairman. Gibson was named.
Gov. Stanley last week. McGlone I
then left for Missouri where he will J DEATH OF MR. PAT McGIRR.
live in the future. Early Wednesday morning the
In a breach of promise suit in j community was shocked by the sud
Knox circuit court RachaelE. Mar-'den death of Mr. Pat McGirr. at his
4.,- jj . . . . home on the Danville and Huston-
uu vao wueu juugmem, against ,
Frank Black for $5,000. Black be
longs to one of the prominent fami
lies of Barbourville. The case was
hotly contested. S. A. Smith, for
mer United States District Attorney
at Covington, represented the plain
tiff and Black & Owens the defend
ant. OF INTEREST HERE.
Local stockholders, of whom there
are quite a number are interested in
news from Lexington that J. B.
Eads, R. G. Fletcher, B. H. Fletcher
and John M. Bourne joined in a pe
tition o the Fayette Circuit Court
that a commission be appointed to
equitably apportion the assets of the
defunct Kentucky Rural Credit As
sociation amopg tne stockholders.-An
important meeting of Lincoln coun
ty stockholders has been called -for
Saturday at 2 o'clock at the court
house.
Local Men "Touched"
Pickpockets Rob Judge Bailey And
Geo. C. Givens at State Fair
Several Stanford visitors to the
big State Fair at Louisville received
a trifle more than a "cordial wel
come" to the city. They were com
pletely "taken in." Mr. George C.
;Givens on the Hubble pike, was
j "touched" for his pocketbook con-
taming $12 while County Judge Jas.
for'f. uaney, was "jostiea- anu nis
w-k - f . ll 1 1 1
pocketbook containing about $40 in
cash and several hundred dollars in
amounting ooo.ou was luin
from him. As he was passing out of
fhe dor of the Pavilion wheJe the
norse snow was in progress, ne wus
jostled about and a moment later dis
covered the loss of his wallet. The
articles taken from him are a wallet
containing $40 in cash, three certif
icates for $250 each on the treasury
of Lincoln county, one certificate on
the state of Kentucky for $57, a
,note for $20.15 and other valuable
. m, ,
personal papers. The loss was re-
.. t n fWo nn,ioo ,,0
Pertinent by Mr. Bailey."
Looks Good In Pulaski
Chairman Joe H. Gibson In Stanford
En Route from State Fair.
f!nl .Tor H. Gihson. of Somerset.
.., throuh Stanford in his auto
c;cc ; insicHno- ttmt nnp .Tnsetih
.,,. ,,- Ahmlf , .on , he
m.
was stricken with apoplexy and only
lived a few hours. The end came
peacefully at 9:30. He was born in
Pennsylvania May 15, 1843, and had
been a resident of Lincoln county
for 43 years, where he has many
friends, for to know "Uncle Pat"
was to be his friend. He is sur
vived by a wife, who, before her
marriage was Miss Liza Kuffman,
and two sons, William and James,
j besides a host of friends, who will
mourn tne loss ox a patient ana
kind husband and father, and a
peaceable neighbor. Funeral ser
vices were conducted at the home
Thursday at 1:30, by Rev. J. Q.
Montgomery after which, the re
mains were laid peacefully to rest
in the Junction City cemetery. A
Friend.
YOUR 1916 City Taxes are due
Please call and settle. All back taxes
that are Hot paid this week will be ad
vertised next week. B. D. CARTER.
J. Lee Murphy sold to J. L. Hutch
ins 35 140-pound hogs at 8 3-4c.
Moreland.
The pupils of the Bell view Publij
and Graded school at Moreland will
give a very interesting and pleasant
entertainment at the school on Fri
day evening, September 22nd, be
ginning at 7:30 o'clock. The pro
gram has been very thoughtfully ar-
' ranged and promises to entertain in
the most pleasing manner. The
"Hoosier School," represents one 50
years ago and is full of pranks and
fun. A small admission of 10c and
15c will be charged and a large
crowd is expected. The program
will be as follows:
Song Kentucky Schools, Chorus.
Welcome Address Francis Tim
berlake. Recitation "Little Boys Lament"
Clayton Ellis.
Playlet "The Months," 12 girls.
Recitation "My Troubles," Mart
Owens.
Broom Drill 8 girls.
Recitation "Be Polite," Henry E.
Pruitt.
Dialogue "Taking Census," Jo
sephine Myers, Wesley Gilmer.
Reading "Talk Over Phone,"
Lottie Merriman.
Play "Hoosier School," 10 pupils.
Song Misses Fields and Peavy
house. j raniomime iuy raun jjook up
to Thee," Girls.
Our school, which is taught by
Prof. Walter Moser and Miss Mary
Peavyhouse, is crowded. In Miss
Peavyhouse's room there are in some
cases three pupils occupying the
same seat. The attendance at our
school, based on the census for this
year, has brufcen all records. The
attendance speaks well for the dis
trict. Regular attendance means
much for the pupils, and the teach
ers can accomplish so much more in
so many ways.
This record attendance is not on
ly pleasing to the teachers, but the
trustees share the pleasure and are
proud of the record of the More
land school. We have been hoping
that the Lincoln County Board of
Education would be able to have
erected an additional room on our
school jrrounds and eive relief to the
teowdcrfionfItnough there
are a number of the older pupils
who cannot be forced by the delin
quency law to attend school, who are
not enrolled. We urge all patrons
to allow nothing but sickness or
death to keep your children out of
school. This will cause them, the
teachers and all interested never
ending pleasure and the pupils, some
of whom do not realize the import
ance of an education, will, in after
years, shower you with blessings to
their last day.
Raymond Durham, son of Mr. J. J.
Duiham, and one of the brightest
scholars of the 8th grade, fell from a
wagon Friday and was quite serious
ly hurt. He will be missed from the
school room greatly.
Miss Emily Butte, of Mississippi,
who is visiting Dr. and Mrs. M. Lee
Pipes, made our school a pleasant
visit last week and made an interest
ing and helpful talk at chapel exer
cises. She has been teaching in the
west for a number of years, and is
a very refined and cultured lady.
The rural supervisor visited the
! srVinnl Inst wppV rind found p.verv-
thing in splendid order. He was
very much pleased with the Domes
tic Science display which Miss Pea
vyhouse has had prepared by her
splendid class. He said that it
should be shown at the Institute.
Hubble Mare Too Game
To Win in Big Roadster Ring Billy
Burton in the Money.
Bob Moreland, formerly of Stan
ford Avon the roadster championship
at the state fair early last week with
his great road horse Peter Valpa.
The mare which Senator R. L. Hub
ble, of this city sold to McCray
Brothers, of North Middletown, was
an entrant, but so game that she
would not stand when lined up by
the judges and so failed to get a
part of the money, though none of
the entries had anything on her in
the way of speed. The finish in the
big stake which had 500 added and
was for roadsters, stallion, mare or
gelding, three-year-old or over, was
as follows: Peter Valpa, R. E.
Moreland, first; Miss Actwell, T. Hi
Ezell, second; Black Matt, R. W.
Smart, third; Rosa D., W. G. Shrop
shire, fourth; Bleucher, Powhattan
Stock Farm, fifth. Bleucher, which
got fifth money, is the very hand
some black stallion which W. B.
Burton, of Lancaster has been stand
ing each season and which is so pop
ular in this section. "Bleucher also
took the blue for. the best stallion,
standard bred, and made a great
show every time he was brought in
to the ring:.
Beckham Sees Victory
In Demand for Speeches AH Over
State Wanted in West End
United States Senator J. C. W.
Beckham returned to Kentucky from
Washington last week, and will take
an active part in the campaign to
carry Kentucky by a big majority
for Wilson and Marshall. There is a
great demand for him from all over
the state. A number of the demo
crats of the West End of this coun
ty said this week that he would be
the most effective speaker who could
be sent to speak there and they will
make an effort to have the campaign
committee send him to Hustonville.
Senator Beckham is confident that
President Wilson will be re-elected
if every democrat does his duty.
Speaking of the prospects he said:
"I believe the president will be re
elected by a very large majority.
The success of his admniistratioa
has been remarkable and unprece
dented, both in our foreign relations
during the European war and the
troubles in Mexico, and also as to
our internal affairs. The president
has at all times shown wisdom, pa
tience and patriotism. He has not
allowed himself to become panic
stricken by sentiment, or by the
many provocations of the most irri
tating character, and he has won the
deep gratitude of the American peo
ple in keeping this country at peace
while the rest of the world was
aflame with war. And, in addition
to that, his administration, with the
cooperation of the Sixty-third and
Sixty-fourth congresses, has given to
our people the most useful, far
reaching and constructive legislative
reforms of any administration in
half a century."
Heard About Town
Don't forget that after Oct. 1st,
the I. J. subscription price will be
$1.50 a year but till then you may
subscribe for as many years in ad
vance as you wish at $1 a year.
Joe Hill, for the past year or so
city mail carrier and clerk in the
postoflice, has gone to Danville to
enter Central University. Joe took .
a year in Georgetown College and
has a very worthy ambition to finish
his college course, which his many
friends are highly commending.
James L. McKechnie, until recent
ly manager of the McKinney Mill
ing Company, has gone to Winches
ter, where he has accepted a nice
position with the Mahan Grocery
Company. Mr. McKechnie is a hust
ler and has a faculty of making
friends, which will stand him in good
stead in his new business where he
will have the best wishes of every
one who knew him in Lincoln.
Col. James R. Nunnelley, of Ft.
Worth, Texas., renewing his I. J.
for a couple of more years, writes
these cheering words: "Guess you
saw what we did to Colquit and wil
do the same to Hughes this falL
King cotton is on top and everyona
is feeling good in the old state.
While the crop is short 15 to 16c
and $40 to $50 for the seed, are
making them all feel good and I look
for big business this fall. Hope this
will find everything moving smoothly
in the old town and with best wishes
to one and all, I am, your truly, J.
R. Nunnelley."
Capt Vernon Richardson, secreta
ry to Senator James, is receiving the
congratulatioi.a of his host of Ken
tucky friends upon the arrival of a
little son in his home at Wash
ington, last week. The youngster
has been named Gail Richardson.
Both Mrs. Richardson, who was Miss
Elise Browning, of Washington, and
the youngster, are doing nicely.
Col. M. F. Elkin, formerly of
Stanford, now in Lexington, State
commander of the Maccabees, is just
recovering from a peculiar accident,
which he suffered nearly three weeks
ago and which has kept him confined
to his room for the greater part of
the time. In dressing himself one
morning, he accidentally struck the
"crazy bone" of his right arm against
a piece of furniture in the room. Af
ter the usual gymnastic gyrations
that the average individual indulges
in when his "crazy bone" receives -a
shock, the pain subsided and Colo
a trip to Louisville. When he reach
ed his destination, however, his right
arm began to pain him and an exam
nel Elkin thought little of the oc
currence, leaving that same day for
ination revealed the fact that the el
bow joint .was badly swollen. A phy
sician was called and after treating
him, advised him to return to his ,,
home in Lexington and carry the
injured arm in a bandage until it
healed. Colonel Elkin has been un--able
to use the injured member since
and the pain he has suffered with it
has kept him confined to his room ..
since. No bones were broken, but
the bruise sustained produced the
swelling and has kept the am pain
fully sore ever since.
