ARRE DAILY TIME
VOL. XX NO. 158.
JUHHK. VERMONT, TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 10, 1910.
PRICE. ONE CKXT.
THE
GERMANS TRY
TO BREAK LINE
IN CHAMPAGNE
Made Five Successive At
N tacks on Russian Troops
Holding the Entente Line
There, but Were Checked
by Russian Machine Gun
and Artillery Fire
advanced another thousand yard """''Ol I r f 9 1 1 1 I f A f
have captured a German fortified worklVl IkC A ii tT T IX T T
which previously had resided till their U U U llfllll
AGAIN ACTIVE
effort.
This ') h t inn Ih i Imriii tiri'il by On.
Halg, the Ilritihh commander, m iinpor-
tant unit highly llccei.iful. It i indica
tive of the iiiti'ntinn of the Uritiith com
mander to force the Ih r 1 1 along th
Siinmn front without cessation, the new
advance being continuation of tlm pow
erful movement undertaken by tht hrit
mui French last Friday.
GERMANS EVACUATE
DENIECOURT TOWN
Bad Weather Hindered the
Operations on the Somme
Front French Capture a
Trench on Southern Slope
of Dead Man's Hill on the
Verdun Front
BRITISH WEARING OUT.
Hardly a Fresh Division Left, According
to Germans.
Hi'rlin, via London, Sept. 1!). The dim as
attack by tin; British Hlong the Sominu
iriit on rriday was, according to ad
vice reaching Iwre, apparently carried
out only by means of the concentration
of the entire Hriti-h forces. The Ger
mans declare that there in hardly a fresh
Uritish division left.
Th Germans, nevertheless, are not at
all disposed to give way to any illusion
that the British army has lieen complete
ly weakened, although it is asserted in
official quarters thai the latent buttle
lias served to convince them once again
that Germany's chief opponent in the
went in r ranee.
On Sunday, while the Germans were
waking counter attack, and, anion; oth
er thingH regaining a portion of the lost
village of Hartmpuich, lioth the British
and French continued their effort at va
r inn points along the line, particularly
the British, lietween Thiepval and Com-
bles. These effort, it is announced, were
brought to a standstill. The French con
centrated their effort at Bouchavesnes,
but were thrown back.
The belief is held in Berlin that even
if Germany's opponent have not com
pletely weakened, a continuation of the
the attacks with their former intensity is an
HULBURI) WINNER
BY 921 VOTES
Two Steamers, Dewa and
Lord Tredegar, Report
ed To-day as Lost
NO AMERICANS
THOUGHT ABOARD
The Lord Tredegar Left New
York with General
Cargo
Bad weather baa net in along
fomme front in northern France and the I impossibility, because the Anglo-French
.Anglo-French offensive has halted. Both
London and Paris report the cessation
of heavy attacks which during the paat
few days have won the British and
French many square miles of new ground.
Meanwhile an interesting situation is
developing in western Macedonia, where
the Serbians, French and Kussians have
driven the Bulgarians out of Fiorina and
the adjacent disfrict. Monustir, in south
western Serbia, is now threatened by the
allied advance and it is reported that
the Bulgarians are evacuating the place,
moving the Bulgarian archives to I'skup.
There have been no sustained offensive
movements in either the Vardar region
or the Struma, other possible lines of
advance for the allies in the Macedonia
campaign.
offensive, especially that of last week
has cost them so heavily.
Reports from the front reiterate that
little as the German troops like to re
treat this policy is preferred, if thereby
lives can be saved at the expense of com
paratively unimportant territory.
FORCIBLY REMOVED FUNDS.
London. Sept. 1!). The losa of the
steamer Dewa and Lord Tredegar was
announced to day by Lloyds.
New York. Sept. !!. The steamer Lord
Tredegar cleared from New York, car
rying a general cargo, and passed Gibral
tar on September 8, en route for Tort
!aid. According to her agent, there
were no Americana on board.
The Dewa sailed from I'ortland July 19
for Avonmotith. Both the Dewa and Lord
Tredegar were British veels.
VOTED TO STRIKE,
Paris, Sept. 10. The Germans took the
offensive in Champagne last, night, mak
ing five successive attacks on Russian
troops there. To-day's official report says
they were checked by Russian machine
gun and artillery fire.
On the Somme front the operations
were hindered by bad weatljer.
South of Combles the French have tak
en additional trenches, making strong
er their investment of the little town,
which is now almost completely sur
rounded. Having evacuated the village;
if Tlatiiowiort booth nf th rivpr ttiA
Germans have been driven back south- s -r, cn ,
Taken from Belgian Banks for Teuton
War Loan, Says Belgian Official.
Havre, Sept. 10. Aloys Van Ie Yy
were, Belgian minister of finance, last
night issued the following statement con
cerning the funds of the Belgian Na
tional bank and the Societe Generalc ,le
Belquiijue, which a German wireless dis
patch recently said had been transferred
to the Reichsbank and there credited to
the Belgian institutions under agreement
with the Belgian bank;
'"The German wireless from Nauen on
September 16 explicitly admits the fact
denounced by the Belgiantinarice depart
ment of the transfer, alter long resist
ance, of the funds of the National bank
and the Societe Generale de Belgique to
the Imperial bank. I he terms of the
wireless, in addition, permit of the pre
sumption that the Germans decided to re
place the funds extorted bv placing in
circulation the forced currency without
ag-
200,000 Members of the United Hebrew-
Trades in New York.
New York, Sept. 19. The I'nited He
brew Trade, representing a membership
of 2nii.M hi organized workers, voted last
night to go on a sympathetic strike as
an aid to the striking carmen, if they
are called upon to do so by the Central
uuor union.
The vote was taken at a meeting of
'delegates said to represent every craft
in the United Trades, including the gar
ment industries in which many women
are employed. Arrangements were made
to notify the membership of 200,000 to
be ready to answer to strike call at any
time.
Five hundred motormen and conductors
employed by the New York and Queens
Comity Railway company went on strike
at midnight. I he strikers assert that
agreements entered into
company and the men were broken when
the railway officials sent li.'i motormen
to Manhattan to do duty on the surface
ars of the New York Railways company.
Brooklyn and Richmond (Staten Island)
are now the only boroughs of the city
not affected by the strike.
ward about two-thirds of a mile toward ir"v,lte the injury to Belgium.
Ablaincourt. South of Barleux, a Ger
man trench west of Horgny has been cap
tured.
Fierce artillery fighting is still in pr-g
ress on the sectors of the Peronne-Riv
paume road, recently captured by the
French. During Sunday and Monday
more than 1,600 Germans were made
prisoners by the French in' the Deniecourt
sector.
On the Verdun front the I'reneh have
captured a trench on the southern slope
of the famous Dead Man hill.
GERMAN WAR STAFF
SENT EASTWARD?
Von Hindenburg is Said to Believe That
It is on the Eastern Front That
the Crisis of War Will Come.
London, Sept. 10. The Wireless Press
to-day gave out a Berne dispatch quoting
Suddeutohe eitung to the effect that
the German general staff had been moved
from the western to the eastern front.
In accordance with the usual tactics
the German government denies that there
is any connection between the extortion
and the arrest and deportation, also ad
mitted, of M. Carlier, director of the
Vntmnnl hnnlr Tt. in pTimxrh to ortnjisn
to that denial the fact that M. Carlier ! Iate 1ftn hea of Middlebury, and
was arrested and deported w ithout trial, i ,fu'f ''e brother and a married Bister,
the first of A.iffust. at the time of th!,wth ?f. who.m d!orl. a "bcr of years
manoeuvres for the extortion, which the 1,6 onl' relatives are nephews and
nieces in cw iorK iiry ana Aliddle-
DIED OF BROKEN NECK.
Dennis Shea of Middlebury Fell from
Roof of House.
Middlebury, Sept. 10. Dennis Shea,
who suffered a broken neck, besides frac
turing one wist and a rib, by accidental
ly falling from a house roof on which he
was at work early Saturday afternoon,
died yesterday. Mr. Shea leaves no im
mediate relatives. He was the son of
Canvassing Board Alio Firda That Ben
Gates Led Thomas H. Cave, Jr,
for Auditor By 2,261
Votes. .
The board to ranvuss the vote cast
last Tuesday in the Vermont primary for
tale olli.-e., I nileil Mates senator and
representatives in Congrea met at the
State House in Montjielier to-day and
canvassed the return. The member of
the board were Judge F. ' Fish, Seere
tary of State Bailey, Stanley ('. Wilson
of Chelsea, chairman of the Republican
state committee, and J. K. Kennedy of
Willistnn, chairman of the Democratic
state committee.
The Republican votes were found to be
as follows:
For l S. senator, Allen M. Fletcher
bad K.012, Gate 7.7.V1, Tage 27.2H, Mat
tering 7.
For representative in Congress from
the first district, F. L. Greene had 19,644,
scattering 5.
ror representative in Congresa from
the second district. Porter II. Dale bad
I8.7H7, scattering 13.
tor governor, Horace F. Graham had
33,244, scattering 37.
For lieutenant governor, Roger W. Hul-
burd had Hl.tWO, ,lohn K. Weeks 13,7n0,
For state treasurer, Walter Scott bad
20.S9I.
For secretary of state, Guy W. Bailey
had 31,(129.
For state auditor, Thomas IT. Care, jr,
bad 11.334. Benjamin Gates 16.505.
For attorney general, II. G. Barber had
27.034. scattering CI.
On the Democratic ticket the vote
stood as follows:
For I". S. senator, O. C. Miller had
3.81(1, scattering (i.
For representative in Congress from
first district, Kmmett B. Daley had 4.307,
scattering 2.
For representative in Congress from
the second district, G. Herbert f'ape had
4,040, scattering 3.
For governor, W. B. Mavo had fi,5'i2.
For lieutenant governor, H. C. Brislin
had fi.007, scattering 2.
For treasurer, O. K. Luce had S.fifl7.
For secretary of state, T. B. Wright
had 5,953, scattering 2.
For auditor, J. . C. Iuri k had 5.S12,
scattering fl.
For attorney general, F. L. Webster
had 5.H00.
There were 37 votes cast tor candidates
entitled National Progressive party.
Statements of the expenses incurred in
the primary campaign have been tiled
with the secretary of state by the fol
lowing candidates: Roger Hulburd. Re
publican nominee for lieutenant governor.
Ilnbll;) 1 t f . 1 ; i
between the I "I" '"" ' r? Z
iirvTBj.iri H1. t- L frilly , ii. ii. jtni lit'),
Republican nominee for attorney general,
$17; G. Herbert Pape, Democratic nom
inee for Congress, 01 cents; H. W. Bris
lin, Democratic nominee for lieutenant j
governor, no expense; uuy . Hailey,
Republican nominee for secretary of
state, $20.00; Frank L. Greene, Republi
can nominee for Congress, no expense;
T. C. Durick, Democratic nominee for
auditor of aecou'nfi, no expense; W. F.
Scott, Republican nominee for state
treasurer, $23.50; Thomas H. Cave, jr.,
Republican candidate for nomination of
auditor of accounts, $550., S. Mr. Cave s
expense account is the largest, to be filed,
over $500 having been expended by hira
for advertising.
Thursday is the last day allowed for
the filing of the sworn statements and
Allen M. Fletcher, Gov, Gates and Sen
ator Carroll S. Page have yet to file their
statements; also Speaker John E. Weeks
and Benjamin Gates.
WAS THROWN
ON HIS HEAD
John Davis, a Northficld
Young Alan and Student
at Dartmouth
WAS UNCONSCIOUS
SEVERAL HOURS
Was Riding- on the Running-
board of Automobile
Near Hanover
Northfield, Sept. 19. John Dais, son
of Mr. and Mrs. Charles M. Davis, of
Northficld, w ho is a student at Dartmouth
college, was injured near Hanover, N. H.
yesterday afternoon w hen he was throw n
to the ground while riding on the run
ningboard of an automobile. The young
man struck on his head and shoulder
and w on rendered unconscious. He was
carried to the Mary Hitchcock hospital
in Hanover and, lifter several hours he
recovered consciousness. The hope was
expressed to-day that his injuries would
not prove to be serious.
Mr. and Mrs. Davis went to Hanover
last night on receipt of information con
cerning the injury to their son. The lat
ter went to Hanover recently to resume
his studies at the college.
TALK OF THE TOWN
u'lroloan faWnA 'rirni niirlora antra rrtt in i
..! . I bury. Mr. Shea was never married. For
Thrt w relesa nen es nnv connect on "" ' .'" " " "a
... ,. rot bittf or . i n - In w Afrja Tntnl Rkaa nf
High street, at whose house he died
The funeral will be held at St. Mary's
Catholic church Wednesday morning at 9
o clock, ot winch church he was a life
long member.
Since the appointment of Field Mar
shal Yon Hindenburg as chief of staff it
has been reported that he desired to
leave in Fiance and Belgium sufficient
men to hold the line and to devote his
energies to the east, for he is credited
with the belief that it is on the eastern
front, that the first conclusive victory
must be won.
BULGARIANS TURN
ON THE SERBIANS
BUT FAIL TO WIN
Official Statement Issued at Paris Says
That Two Efforts on the Macedoni
an Front Met with No Success.
Paris, Sept. 19. The Bulgarians on
the Macedonian front have made two
counter attacks against the Serbians but
gain no success, it is announced oflicial-
ly to-day. The Bulgarians anil the Ger
mans have not attempted counter action
against the French troops which captured
Fiorina. Ihere ts no change on the Stru
ma front.
BRITISH ENTER
TRENCHES IN
THREE PLACES
Captured Prisoners and Machine Guns
and Inflicted Other Losses on the Ger
mans Haig Captured Another
Important Fortification.
London. Sept. 19. Heavy and continu
ous rain on the Briti-h front in France
and Belgium has halted operations in
many sections, according to to-day's offi
cial account, which says that the general
eituation is unchanged. In the neighbor
hood of R!chetonrir L'Avoue, northwest
of L Bassee, the British entered trenches
in three placescapturing prisoners and
machine guns and indicting many cas
ualties, while the British lo es were
flight, the statement say. Since last
nv'ht's report, tive more British aero
planes tae failed to return.
between the forcible transfer of the
funds and the fifth German war loan.
It is nevertheless evident that this trans
fer gives the Imperial bank a fresh sup
ply of cash with which to swell its suh-
criptions to the loan. The Belgian gov
ernment does not yet know the details
of the threat of violence employed, but
it does know that to break the resist
ance of the banks an ultimatum was
sent to the National bank and the So
ciete Generale threatening lsth with im
mediate sequestration and forcible liqui
dation. The protests of the Belgian min
ister of finance of the 13th and 15th of
September were then well founded."
The wireless dispatch from Berlin of
September 1( said the report that the
government had seized 000,000,000 francs
of the Belgian National bank was untrue.
After negotiations of soveral months be
tween the National bank and the Societe
Generale, the dispatch added, German
Rcichbank notes held bv these banks
were to be transfered to the Reichsbank
and there credited to the Belgian insti
tution. The banks agreed to the trans
action, it was stated. Denial was made
that the assets of the bank were to be
used for subscription to the fifth German
war loan.
DIED IN 93d YEAR.
TO EXPEL ITALIANS.
Mrs. Jane Fisk Johnson of Bennington
Was Called "Aunt Jane."
Bennington, Sept. 10. Mrs. Jane Fisk
Johnson, generally known as "Aunt
Jane John son," died yesterday afternoon
at the home of her niece, Mrs. William K.
Frost, in her 03d year. Until a few
weeks ago her physical and mental ac
tivities were remarkable. During the
past summer she had made frequent trips
to a camp in Pownal owned by the fam
ily, and appeared to enjoy the outings
as much as the younger people.
She was lxirn in the adjoining town of
Shaftsbury, Jan. 4, 1S24, the oldest of
ten children, of whom she was the last
survivor. She was married to Andrew
Johnson in 1 847, and the following spring
Mr. Johnson built the house at 221 North
street, in which "Aunt Jane" had lived
for 08 years.
PIONEER QTJINCY MAN.
CHAPLAIN NOT GOING.
Germany Will Practice Reprisals for
Treatment in Italy.
Berne, Switzerland, via Taris, Sept. 10.
It is reported from the German fron
tier that the German government intends
to expel ten thousand Italians in reprisal
for the treatment of Germans in Ital'v.
Because Vermont Troops are Ordered
Home.
St. Johnsbury, Sept. 19. Rev. Paul D.
Moody, pastor of the South Congrega
tional church, who was recently appoint
ed chaplain of the F'irst Vermont regi
ment, who was all prepared to start for
the border, received won! to-rla' from
The Italians will be sent out of Germany (,ov. Gates that lie would not be sent to
on special trains via Switzerland. TlieyjKagle Pass owing to the return of the
(.reen monutain troops from their border
service. Rev. Mr. Moody expressed his
pubilation that the men ' of Vermont
regiment, were to be restored to their
homes and firesides within a short time
but voiced real regret that he was to
mica the opportunity that had been of
fered him to go to the border and serve
his country and her soldiers.
include many women, children and
men of the poorer class.
dd
FALL FROM TREE FATAL.
Ira B. Bromley, Sr., of South Burlington,
the Victim.
Burlington, Sept. 19. Ira B. Bromlev,
sr., died last evening about 10 o'clock at
his home on Fourth street in South l.ur-
lington, succumbing to injuries receivid
in the afternoon when be fell from a pear
tree, a limb breaking while he was pick
ing pears. Dr. H. L Wilder was rilled
and later a consultation of physicians
held. Several ribs were crut-hed in. caus
ing internal injuries
COMING TO VERMONT.
loc a on-iui front tLe EritUa Lav llardwick.
New Hampshire Cavalry Squadron to Get
Instruction.
Concord. N. H., Sept. 19. Adjt. Gen.
Charles W. Howard has received orders
from the war department directing him
The accident occurred aliout 3 o'clock, j to dispatch Troop A. cavalry, New
Mr. Bromlev was picking pears, when Hampshire National Guard, to Fort
suddenly the branch broke. He got up i Kthan Allen, Burlington. Vt., for instruc
and started to walk toward the houe. Ition.
but collapsed. His cry was heard by Troop A. SO nicn and three officers, has
his wife, who ran to him and his son. who been at the mobilization camp in this
carried him into the hou-e. He was con- city since the departure of the other New
scions for some time. Hampshire troops for the Texas bor-
He was o9 years of aje. and lides der. and as no hore have 6een provided
his wife leaves a son. Ira Bromley, jr., I for its equipment, it has not made great
and a daughter, Mrs. W. II. IK-aUi. ofpro;-res in drill. The troop leaves for
James H. Elcock, Also Pioneer In Civic
Life, is Dead.
Quincy, Mass., Sept. 19. James H. El
cock, one of the pioneers in the granite
business of the city, a member of the city
council for two years, overseer of the
poor for six years, a valued member of
the Quincy board of trade, West Quin
cy Improvement association, July Fourth
association, and during his younger years
a district engineer of the fire department,
a member of several fraternal organi
zations, passed away yesterday at his
home on Copoland street, aged 07 years.
Mr. tleock was xaken ill last January
and his health has been gradually fail
ing since that time.
He was born in Quincy August 6, 1S49,
ami has always made his home in this
city. Educated in the public schools of
the city, he in common with young men
of those days learned the trade of a gran
ite cutter at Concord, N. IL, Reutnring to
Quincy he followed his trade until 188i
when he became a manufacturer, going
into business with his father under the
firm name of Klcock & Sons. This bus
iness the firm continued to carry on for
many years.
He took a deep interest in fire depart
ment matters as a boy and as soon as
he was able became attached to the old
Granite, rising until he became a dis
trict chief. He also served the town for
a number of years as a constable. In
1SS9 he was elected as a member of the
city council from wird four and served
during the rears 190 and 1891. While
in the council he took an active part in
its deliberations and his voice was often
heard in debate.
In 1!W1S when the late William T. Shea
assumed the office of mayor he appointed
Mr. Klcock as overseer of the poor. He
held that office for four years under May
or Shea, and when Mayor Stone as
sumed office he re-appointed Mr. Elcock,
who served during his two years.
As a member of the board of trade
he was always most active, and has
tilled several offices in that organization.
When West Quincy formed an improve
ment association he promptly identified
himself with it and did much to promote
its waltare. He was also affiliated with
the July Fourth association and held sev
eral offices there.
He was a member of St. Mary's Tem
perance soeietr, St. Francis Court of For
esters as well as other organizations, in-
luding the Washington M. French Hose
aociat ion.
He is surrived by a widow, three
daughters and four sons. His children
are Mrs. .lose mi ri, oi iinrcnesier. .Mr.
Mr. and Mrs. George Rackley nf Mai
den, III., arrived in the city to-day and
will visit at the home of Mrs. F. G.
How land of French street for a few days.
Mrs. Douglas A.Clark and little daugh
ter, Marjorie, of Camp street, returned
to the city this afternoon, after passing
month with relatives in St. Johns, P.
Q-
County Agent F. II. Abbott returned to
the city last night, after holding one of
the most successful soy-bean demonstra
tion meetings of the year at the Dr.
W. P. Wasson farm in Waterburv yes
terday. A large number of farmers from
nearly every town in the county were
present to listen to the talk of Mr. Ab
bott on the advantages of the soy-bean
in the cornfield to-day.
Lessees of the Barre opera house had
their work mapped out for them to-day
when they began to put the theatre in
readiness for to-night's production of
"Everywoman." Scrutiny of the etage
and dressing room developed the infor
mation that someone had made a pice
haul of incandescent globes. Except for
an occasional globe that had long ago
outlived its usefulness, every socket in
the west end of the house bad been
emptied. Under the procenium, a rich
grab had been made from the footlights.
All told, 93 incandescent were reported
among the missing. In the brief interim
between the expiration of the old lease
and the beginning of the present lease,
the theatre was in the custody of the
aldermanic property committee.
Barre friends of Miss Sadie Krelinger,
a former resident of Barre and a sister
of Mrs. Nellie Bianchi, culinary chief at
the Barre City hospital, will be interest
ed in the following account of her wed
ding, which appeared in a Quincv, Mass.,
exchange: "A pretty wedding was solem
nized at Christ church last evening when
Miss Sadie Krelinger of this city was
EIGHT STATES REPRESENTED
la Goddatd Seminary's Record Enroll
ment To-day,
When the door at (iisldard seminaiy
.wung im ii this morning for the lcgii.
ning of the school's -IStli year, the regis
tration eclipsed all previous enrollment a.
I'pward ol 2.'0 student, according to
I'rin. (I. K. Ilollinter. cave as their home
town in Vermont. Minnesota, Illinois,
New York, New Jersey, Muui'1iuftts,
.New Hampshire and t onnecticnt, .Mem
bcrs of the faculty were confident tha
the enrollment would exceed 2d'l within a
few day. There are two new teacher
on the staff, Mis Mary l-ease, in charge
of the department of music, anil I.oberl
Nolile, a Dartmouth graduate, who sue
ced r. I-.. Dexter in the history
branches. Of interest to manv student
was the announcement that Spanish bad
l.een added to the language courses
Spanish students were expected to b
very numerous.
There are from 1.1 to 20 addition, to
(be senior class, an unusual occurrence
for the upper das. Kvcrv room in the
.'ormitone was taken, and accommoda
lion lor more than I. students were
sought in down-town homes. The night
school will open net Tuesday evening,
and student mav enroll for domestic
science, as well as in the commercial
courses. i lie uav students are more
numerous than ever before, and the com
mercial class is the largest in the history
fof the institution. Recent gifts from
Ira C. Calef and others have placed the
school on an uncommonly strong financial
basis, and the prospects are regarded as
exceptionally bright.
Goddard Notes.
Arthur J. Shay, who figured largely in
loddard seminary' successes on the
baseball diamond last spring, has signed
with Joe Tinker's Chicago Cubs, accord
ing to an exchange, which says: "Arthur
Shav, the sensational Hub lad, whose
wonderful work f-'atured the victories
gained by the Goddard seminary, Barre,
t., nine during the past season and who
has received flattering offers from live
major league dub, has signed a contract
ith the Chicago Cubs. Shav is now in
Philadelphia with Joe Tinker's boys and
ill be pressed into service regularly.
Shay came to Goddard in the fall of 1914
and got right into the spirit of athletics
on the hilltop. This summer he has been
playing with the St. Johnsbury indepen-
nt team. He is the fourth Goddard
boy to graduate into major league com
pany under the tutelage of Coach Charles
L,. iioernie, and incidentally linker says
of him: "Shay is a marvel. Just as
soon a I heard of him through Billy
1eonard. a well-known semi-professional
manager of Boston, I decided that he had
the goods." It was Ivoonard who recom
mended Lawton Witt to Connie Mack.
Material the huskiest to be registered
on the hilltop in years will he out in
football tops on the Goddard seminary
campus late this afternoon, when Coach
Charles L. Hoernle sounds the call to
the colors for the first time this season
Although but four veterans of last year's
team remain, some of the solid bora who
hare figured in the gridiron sport else
where are here to see that Goddard's
laurels are upheld on the football field
Then, too. there are the untutored vouth,
in which class Coach Charles is always
searching for an embryo star. He usual
Iy finds one or two in a season and whips
a winner out of the half-baked material.
Mcintosh is captain of the 1916 eleven
and a manager is vet to be chosen. The
other veterans are Haskett, Faulkner
and Welch. Coach Hoernle is to be as
sisted by Mr. Kinney, also of the faculty.
Among the games already arranged arc
contests with Middlebury college seconds
and St. Peter's A. C. of Rutland.
PARALYSIS AT
BROOKFIELD
Two Children Dead and Ono
Other in Jordan Fam
ily Is 111
GOT THE DISEASE
IN MASSACHUSETTS
Dr. B. H. F ;!e of Burling
ton V j? ailed Yester-da-
jv Investigate
Randolph, Sept. 19. Infantile paraly
sis has developed in Bnokiicld and one
leath has occurred. On Sunday a physi
cian was called to attend members of tha
Albert Jordan family who live on Brook-
field hill, children having been ill for a
few days, lesterday morning the child
who was first taken ill died. A second
hild died during the night, and a third i
also showing symptoms of the disease.
Dr. B. H. Stone of Burlington, who was
summoned yesterday to conduct an in
vestigation, at once pronounced the dis
ease to be infantile paralysis.
Mr. Jordan is employed on Mr. ( nit a
farm and his help also live in a cottage
on the farm. Yesterday morning, at the
opening of the schools here, Mr. Colt's
daughter came with several others from
Brookfield lo enter school here, but it is
understood that she was sent home. As
late as Saturday member of the families
were on the street, and in view of these
facts the schools have been ordered closed
for two weeks. Mr. and Mrs. Jordan
and their children have been in Massa
chusetts on a visit, and it is supposed
the children contracted the disease there
or while on the journey.
TWO MORE CASES.
2,303 IN SCHOOL.
Opening Day Also Found All the Teach
ers Present.
The public schools of Bane opened this
morning for the fall term with a regis
tration of 2.303 school children, of w hom
united in marriage to August i. Ander-U50 were in Spaulding high school. It
son of New York by Rev. William Grain- Jig probable that the enrollment in all the
ger. I he bride was handsomely gowned I schools, including the high school, will
i . , : i - , i , ...
be increased somewhat during the next
One at North Poultney and the Other at
Fair Haven.
Rutland, Sept. 19. A case of infantile
paralysis has developed at North Poult
ney and there is a probable case in Fair
Haven. Schools in the two places will
be closed for two weeks at least.
Marion, six-year-old daughter of Mr.
and Mrs. Robert Owens of South Main
street. Fair Haven, was taken ill last
Saturday. She became worse yesterday
and a physician was summoned. Owing
to the suspicious nature of the case. Dr.
C. S. Caverly of this city, president of the
state board of health, was called and he
sent some of the spinal fluid to Burling
ton for analysis.
The patient at North Poultney is Ed
ward, four-year-old son of Mr. and Mrs.
Millisaskie, the family having been
placed in quarantine bv Dr. J. J. DTven.
the local health officer. The case is said
to be a mild one. although the limbs are
partially paralyzed.
GREATEST INCREASE
IN MASSACHUSETTS
in a white embroidered voile and carried
a large bouquet of bridal roses. She was
attended by Miss Anna Oster, an inti
mate friend of the bride. The best man
man was Allan Daw. The happy couple
left for a short trip through the White
mountains of New Hampshire and on
their return they will make their home in
Cambridge.
Old-time racing fans and others who
have "follow ed the horses" in more recent
years will regret to learn of the passing
of Frank B. Iang, a widely known horse
man, whose death in a hospital at West
Newton. Mass., Saturday night at 8:30
followed an attack of acute Bright s die
ease.. The remains of Mr. Lang were
shipped to Barton, where the funeral was
held this afternoon at 2 o'clock, with
burial in the village cemetery. Memor
ies of Mr. Lang and his string of horses
hark back to the halcyon days when
Barre was on the racing map. Mr. Lang
was often represented in the matches at
the old Granite City park and numbered
many acquaintances in this citv and vi
cinity. Horsemen recall that he was the
man who drove the mare Estatic a mile
in 2:01,-4 for the world's pacing record.
Until two years ago he owned the Roar
ing Brook park in Barton, where many
exciting races have been held. News of
bis demise was received in Barre br Dr.
W, S. Page of Orange street.
F'rank J. Simond, a Barre granite cut
ter who enlisted from this city when the
call to arms came in June, is back in
Quincy, Mass., after serving as a bugler
in the 1st ernrent infantry. When
trouble with Mexico threatened, Mr. Si
mond was visiting hie brother here, hav
ing been honorably discharged a short
time before, after several terms of serv
ice in the regular armr. A Quincv ex
change gives the following account of his
return: rrank .. rimond, one of the
buglers of the 1st Vermont infantrv, got
back to Quincy Saturday after service on
the Mexican border. Simond lived m
Barre. Vt when he enlisted. A stone
cutter by trade, he came to Quincy and
secured work after a long period of em
ployment and had been on his new job
but a week when telegraph orders were
received and he joined his company.
While the regiment n en route for
Eagle Pass, military aid waa arranged
for Mrs. Simond and children through
few days. The high school registration
is not quite as large as last year when
tiiere were 481, but a number of addition
al students are expected. The freshmen
clasa enrollment numbered 13(5.
Every teacher w as present at the open
ing of the schools, which is considered
quite remarkable when it is taken into
consideration that there are about 70 in
structors. The pupil registration as re
ported to Supt. White, exclusive of the
liigh school was 1,853 this forenoon.
Thirty-nine New Cases of Infantile Par
alysis Developed in 24 Hours, Mak
ing Total of 360 For
the Month.
Boston, Sept. 19. The greatest spread
of infantile paralysis since it became
epidemic in this state was reported to
the health department to-day. Ihir-ty-nine
new cases developed in 24 hours,
six of which were in Holyoke and six in
Boston. That makes 3(i0 cases for this
month.
MRS. ANNIE R. MACKENZIE.
Dannis F. Crawler of East Milton, (irsce j Overseer of the Poor Thomas J. I -a nib.
Klcock. a teacher at the Coddington
.school. Alexia R.. .lame J., Raphael A..
and Carroll Klcock.
Burlington to-isirLt.
Rosalind Trow of H South Main street
returned last eveninz from a vacation of
several weeks spent at the beaches and
mountains.
The regiment was allowed to leave ear
lier in the week. On Saturday morning
he received an unpleanl surprise. He
informed the people who employed him
he ready to go hack to work, but
was told that his place bad been filled in
his ah-ence and that no more men were
needed."
Wife of Ewen Mackenzie Died This Morn
ing After Long Illness.
Mrs. Annie R. Mackenzie, w ife of Ewen
Mackenzie, passed away at her home, 9
Beckley court, this morning at 1:50
o'clock. Mrs. Mackenzie had been in
failing health for the pat nine years, a
chronic case of rheumatism having been
aggravated latterly by complications.
Besides her husband, she is survived by
two daughters, Mrs. Kgidio J. Rulfo and
Mrs. Louis Bottiggi of this city and by
three sons, John Mackenzie. Alexander
Mackenzie and George Mackenzie of
Barre. There are a!o left two sisters,
one in Aberdeen, Scotland, and one in
Canada, and three brothers, John Rennie,
who lives in Australia, and James and
Thomas Rennie, w ho reside in Scotland, j
The deceased was born Annie Sim Ren
nie in CYuden, Scotland. Sept. .". Ifrtl.
Her marriage to Mr. Mackenzie took
place in Cruden July 29. 1 SSI. Twenty
seven rears ago she came to America
with her family and settled in Barre.
Throughout her long illness.' Mrs. Mac
kenzie bore her suffering patiently.
The funeral will be held at toe house
Thursday afternoon at 2 odock. hev.
Kilcar Cros-Iand. pastor of the rirst
Presbvterian church, will be the officiat
ing clergyman and interment will be
made in Hope cemetery.
More New York Cases Rep:rted.
New York, Sept. 19. Thirty-five new
cases of infantile paralysis, an increase
of 20 over yesterday, were reported to
day. There were ten deaths, an increase
of four.
NICHOLS WON SUIT.
NEW VERMONT CORPORATION.
The Colonial Inc, of Montpelier Has
$10,000 Stock.
Artciles of association were filed to
day with the secretary of state by The
Colonial. Inc.. orgjnized with capital
Given $65.50 and Interest From G. M.
Emerson.
A verdict for the plaintiff, Frank M.
Nichols of Williamstown, to recover
$65.50 with interest for 17 months.
amounting to ,$5.G0, was returned by the
jury in county court late yesterday aft
ernoon in the case of Niehola vs. G. M.
Emerson. The amount of the verdict is
nearly the same as sued for by the
plaintiff. The case was completed Sat
urday and arguments were made yester
day afternoon, being completed at 3
o'clock.
A jury was drawn yesterday to hear
the case of A. H. and L. H. Lippeneott
vs. A. Malnati & Co. of Barre, the first
case on the trial calendar and which held
up court procedings last week because of
the failure of a witness to appear. The
plaintiff, represented by Atty. Max L.
Powell of Burlington, avers that the de
fendant failed to live up to a contract
and claims an amount due on a soda '
fountain. The defendant is represented
by Theriault & Hunt. The case will
probably be completed to-day.
The jury hearing the case is composed
as follows: George H. Emery of Barre
City. Ahah Newhall of Middlesex. W. K.
Hayford of East Montpelier. C. P.
Spaulding of Calais. K. A. Ijimphere of
Calais. Neil Tasie of Woodbury. Robert
Whs Jen of Montpelier. John F. Maloney
of Rovbury, C. C. Simonds of Water
bury. John" A. Foss of Plaintield. How
ard Curtis of Worcester and George J.
Ing of Warren.
Hayes Baett of Cabot was in city
court this morning on a charge of breach
of t!-c peace. He acknowledged the of-
fensej and paid a fine and costs aggregat
ing .Mti.d.Y
Frank .1. Hunton of Oranjre street met
stock of 10.lNKi. with JOO sharc, to pur- j with a very painful accident yesterday a
chase real estate on State street. Mont
pelier. heretofore conveyed to Frank A.
Walker br K. L Harvey, trustee. n l to
purchase and develop other properties
he was rank inz ue of the Smith A
( iimuiE autot'Htbdc trucks in the rear
of the Smith Cuming market. The
rank k'.k. l back and hit the wrist on
The subscriber" are K. A. Walker d'l.is rit.t arm. The arm is swollen, but
Barre, E. M. Harey of Montpelier nJ j 't i th. iu-ht thit the bone is not frac
Genrude Maikie of Barre. tuie4-
