HE ALLIANG
The Leading Paper
of Western
Nebraska
ERALD
3,000 Copies
16 Pafges
Two Sections
READ BT
MEMBER NEBRASKA STOCK GROWERS ASSOCIATION. ALL THE NEWS OF ALLIANCE AND WESTERN NEBRASKA
dFFIO. N NEBRASKA VOLUNTEER FIREMEN'S ASSOCIATION. IT REACHES HEADQUARTERS FOR 15,000 FIREMEN
ALLIANCE, BOX BUTTE COUNTY, NEBRASKA, THURSDAY, APRIL 13, 1916
YOLUME XXIII
NUMBER 19
TTTK
X J"
.n.
FIRST MEETING
OF NEW COUNCIL
f mV-g Committees for Knsning
- Year Are Appointed by May
- or P. E. Romig
GIRLS. HEED SUGGESTION
OF POLICE OFFICIALS
Several Women Questionable Char
acter tJlven Notice tliat They
Are Not Wanted Here
M8CU88 SIDEWALKS, PA VINO
AND OTHER IMPROVEMENTS
Mkington New Chief of Fire Depart
ment Much Miscellaneous
Business Transacted
The new council chambers in the
etty hall were used for the first time
Tmeaday night when the old council
aaet to finish up their business and to
tarn the affairs of the city over to the
ew council.
Only two changes in the personnel
erf this body was made as there were
aajiy four terms expired and two al
dermen were re-elected.
At the conclusion of the business
erf the old council Mayor Romig made
a short address appropriate to the oc
casion and the two aldermen re-elect-
4. John Snyder and A. J. Welch,
ad the newly elected aldermen. F.
T. Helpbringer and Lee Moore, were
worn In by Police Magistrate T. D.
Egberts.
The new council found a large vol
ume of business awaiting them, and
after a long session lasting till near
ly midnight they adjourned till next
Wednesday, April 19, when they will
take op unfinished business and new
aaainesa that they were unable to
take up this week.
Mayor Romig announced the ap
pointment of the standing commu
tes for the ensuing year as follows
Claims: Davis. Kibble, Snyder and
Bavldson.
Ordinance and Printing: Help-
. aHnger, Welch. Snyder and Kibble.
Streets and Alleys: Kibble, Snyder,
Bwvls and Davidson.
Finance and Purchasing: Was,
elpbrtnger, Welch and Davis.
Health and Sewer: Moore, Help-
swinger, Davidson and Was.
Cltv Property and Insurance: Dav
ie, Welch, Davidson and Snyder.
Fire. Water and Light: Snyder
Babble, Was and Moore.
Licenses: Welch, Was. Davis and
laeore.
Leonard E. PUkington- was ap
pointed chief of the Alliance fire de
partment for the ensuing year.
Sidewalks were ordered construct
ed as were petitioned for by residents
est Platte avenue between Fourth and
'Firth! on Emerson between Fourth
mm. Fifth, and on Fifth street con
eating Platte and Emerson.
' A petition for sidewalks on Sev
mmth street was referred to the street
and alley committee.
A petition for sidewalks on Nio
brara avenue was granted and walk
were ordered In on both sides of that
street where there are rone from
ITrst to. Sixth streets.
A petition for curbing on Kant
Third street was presented and the
Mr attorney was instructed to draw
as an ordinance creating a curbing
Ndttetrict to Include, that street.
City Clerk Cnrter Calder was iv
tract ed to advertise for bids for th
wvrk to be done in the newlyereatei
sewerage district mo. j lyir.u w
ween Cheyenne and Laramie av
mmm and north of Tenth streets.
A letter from Grant & Knlton, th"
lAucoln engineers who are in chars '
erf the plans and sp-i tics t ions for the
reservoir, was read In which thtr
elated that their work was finished
ne far as they could go until the city
arrive! at a decision regarding the
eeaduit connecting the reservoir and
the plant. The council voted to In
struct the engineers to go abend wit
tlkelr preparations omitting the plan
tar the conduit. ,
StevA Jackou was reappoint-
'fflcUl dog catcher" for the city c;
Affiance.
Several young women have depart
ed this city, this week and several
more will go out today and tomorrow
following the suggestions from the
police department that Alliance Is no
place for them.
Despite the fact that the lid was
placed on their line of trade In Al
liance several .weeks ago there has
been for several weeks a number of
young women, some of them ostensi
bly employed and others unemployed,
POLICE QUESTION IS NOT SETTLED
AT FIRST MEETING OF NEW COUNCIL
No official action was taken with
regard to any changes In the police
department at the first meeting of
the' new city council held Tuesday
night further than the reading of the
petitions and applications of the can
didates for appointment. The coun
cil voted unanimously to leave the
matter up to Mayor Romig for fur
ther Investigation with the under-
i standing that the matter will be set
tled at a later meeting.
Chief of Police Chas. JelTers was
appointed at the beginning of the
Romig administration and his term
who have been walking the streets
and otherwise conducting themselves Ig not for ono year DUt for lne fUn
in a manner contrary to the new or- t.rm for -hich the mayor Is elected.
der of things In Alliance but before
taking a hand In the matter the po
lice made Investigation of the various
unless he Is removed by special ac
tlon.
Two petitions and two applications
complaints brought In and then were presented to the council Mon
where such action was Justifiable ht petitions, each sizned by
gave them their choice of leaving a iare numDer of citizens, were pre-
town or taking their chances In po- Bent,,i asking for the appointment of
Hoe court.
ADDITION TO DRAKE
Charles Jeffers and A. B. Wheeler
for chief. O. D. Hobbs made apll
catlon'for appointment as chief of
police, and J. B. Hunsacker made ap
plication for appointment as night
1 marshal.
In a short talk to the new council
Mayor Romig stated that according
to the law the mayor has the full
Manager Drake Asking for Bids for
Extensive Addition to Hotel
Work to Begin Soon
Drake of the ' power and authority to appoint and
Proprietor C. L.
Drake hotel has received plans and j
specifications for an addition of two i
stories to be built on the back of the
present building, extending to the al
ley. Bids are now being asked for by
Mr. Drake and construction Is expect
ed to start very soon.
The addition will contain sixteen
rooms, eacn twelve reel ny eleven
feet and three Inches, each room to
contain a private bath. This addi
tion, when completed, will give the
Drake hotel a total of forty-six
rooms.
discharge members of the police de
partment but that he wished to act
in harmony with the council In the
matter and that he was willing to
consult with them' with regard to the
appointment or that if they so wish
ed he was willing to assume the full
responsibility and criticism Involved
by the appointment of the police of
ficials. The mayor further stated that he
had made previous appointments In
good faith with the sanction of the
council. ' That he believed the criti
cism of the administration had been
unjust, that if mistakes had been
made they were unintentional and so
far as he was concerned any changes
necessary would be made.
He stated emphatically that there
Is no person or clique in the city of
Alliance that has any "strings on
him," and that it is his desire to per
form, the duties involving on him as
mayor of the city to the best Inter
ests of the city as a whole.
The police question will be defl
nitely settled either at the adjourned
meeting called for April 19 or at tfie
regular meeting In May. In the
meantime Charles Jeffers remains at
the head of the police department do
ing night duty, while A. B. Wheeler
Is on day duty.
FUNDS RAISED FOB
PARK SUPERVISOR
Western Nebraska.
A creed for the citizens of the best part of the best state
in the Union.
The following was rendered by Lloyd Thomas, secretary of the As
sociated Commercial Clubs of Western Nebraska, at the banquet In
Bridgeport Tuesday evening: a
"I believe in Western Nebraska. I believe in her citizens and
know them to be hardy pioneers who havs been Impelled to settle here
with the Indomitable spirit of the Pilgrim Fathers, for commercial, civ
ic and political freedom. 1
"I believe In Western Nebraska; In her broad and fertile plains,
her rich and prosperous valleys; her swift streams; her lofty buttes
and deep canyons. I believe, in her bi y, bustling towns and villages,
shining out to the world like gems on the boaom or a queen.
."I believe in Western Nebraska; ir, her infant industries, her man
ufacturing enterprises, her great works of Irrigation and In the busy
tillers of the soil who are producers of the food and sustenance of mil
lions. In her hardy ranchmen and stock raisers, producing the beef
that gives good, red blood to the rity cave man of the cast.
"I believe In Western Nebraska. I believe that we, as pioneers In
our different and varied lines of work in this great Inland empire, now
stand at the break of a great day of prosperity and development In a
territory which, now but the abode of thousands, will soon become the
home of millions.
"I, as a native of western Nebraska, thank the great Creator for
the privilege of continuing as one of her citizens and pledge my efforts
to help make this section of our great state a beacon light to the dis
satisfied ones, living in discontent in the crowded cities and states of
the east and will urge others to assist In making Western Nebraska the
Mecca for others, that they, too. may enjoy the privileges which we now
have."
SAYS HE IS THROUGH
STEALING FOR LIVING
Year in Penitentiary Was fiood Ex
IH'rleiK-e for Ijad Sent Down
from Box Butte County
Charlie Drescher, the lad who was
given a year In the penitentiary last
year when convicted of stealing a
horse at the J. R. Phelan ranch,
writes Sheriff Cox that It was a good
lesson to him.
The lad served out his .time a few
weeks ago and returned to his home
at Broadwater. When he left Alli
ance he left a few of his possessions
In the keeping of Sheriff Cox and a
few days ago Mr. Cox received a re
quest to send them to Broadwater.
In his letter he says: "That wasn't
such a bad place down there but It
was bad enougn and It learned me a
lesson and a good trade that I can
make money without stealing
horses."
THE NEXT MEETING IS TO
BE HELD AT CHADRON
SALE OF SIMMONS STOCK
Mi
i. R. Simmons Has Moved Bank
nipt Stock into New Quarters
for Special Sale
Woman's Club Secure Balance Need
ed for This Purpose from the
City Council '
Funds have been raised and the
play ground 'superlvsor for the sum
mer months Is assured. Several.
weeks ago the proposition of employ
ing such an official was taken up by
several organizations who recognized
the need and the value of a compe
tent person to take . charge of the
play grounds at the city park during
the vacation season and It was decid
ed that this position and keener of
the grounds might be Included in
one in a satisfactory manner and at
a' saving In cost.
Th f'!.ty Park Bonrd appropriates
$40 n month for the keoper or ov
Prf,r of the premises and In order
t secure' a competent person to de
'.t whole time to the park 136 raoYe
ner - onth was needed.
Tb Ttft'er taken" up by the
r-nMd's Protective Association, the
Commercial Club and the woman a
Mih anl as a result the Woman's
r-tnb a irreed to assume the resnonsl-
i.M'fy of raising the ral:mce of the
fnnds needed.
Tuesday night at the first meeting , has received considerable attention
"f the new council a committee from from. me the past year. I find that
he club, composed oP Mrs. A. T. 'the mode of paying for these, bonds.
Lnnn and Mrs. W. R. Pate, were; as well as In raising a sinking fund,
Through a mistake, the advertise
ment of Mrs. Simmons' sale on an
other page of this Issue of The Her
aid atates that it Is the old Bee Hive
stock. This Is Incorrect It la the
Simmons stock from the store for
merly conducted by Mrs. Simmons
and the entire stock la put on sale at
prlcea ranging from twenty cents to
fifty cents on the dollar.
Mrs. Simmons has put in a new
line of kimonas and aa soon as the
bankrupt stock of goods Is disposed
of she will put In a line of Imported
oriental goodabf all klpda.
COUNCIL CONSIDERS
INCINERATOR PI ANT
ANNUAL MEET
OF CIVIC CLUBS
Interesting Meeting of Western Ne
braska Commercial Clubs Con
Tened at Sister Town Tues.
Attorney Instructed to Cilve Opinion
at Next Meeting on Proper Plan
of Financing Proposition
Rundln Re-elected President; Thom
as Elected Secretary; Ritchie
and Rhumway, V. Pres.
The annual meeting of the Associ
ated Commercial Clubs of Western
Nebraska waa held Tuesday at -Bridgeport
The association include -the
cluba of the eleven countlea In
the panhandle qf Nebraska Sioux,
Dawes, Sheridan, Box Butte .Scotta -
Bluff, Banner, Kimball, Morrill,
Cheyenne, Garden and Deuel.
The Bridgeport Commercial Club ;
was the host at the meeting and did
thlnga up In fine style, from the bus-,
inesa meetings of the morning to the
close of the banquet at midnight
Officers elected for the ensuing
year were: Rev. Walter C. Rundln.
Crawford, president; Wm. Ritchie, .
Jr., Bridgeport, first vice president;
O. L. Shumway, Seottsbluff, second
vice president; Lloyd C. Thomas, Al
liance, secretary; Clayton Radcllffe,
Sidney, treasurer.
The next meeting of the associa
tion will be held In three months at
Chadron, the Invitation of the Chad
ron club being accepted. At the
meeting it waa voted that quarterly
meetings be held at different points
In the district covered.
The publicity committee of the as
sociation, consisting of Lloyd Thom
as of Alliance, Arab L. Hungerford
of Crawford, and Wm. Ritchie, Jr.,
of Bridgeport, was instructed to pre-,
pare plans for and to issue as soon as
possible a western Nebraska booklet
of approximately sixty pages and to
issue about fifty thousand copies for
general distribution. This booklet
will cover thoroughly the territory
, Included In the association and will
I be sent to homeseekers and those In
terested iu this section of the state.-
I Wm. Ritchie, Jr., chairman of the
committee appointed to confer with
the Nebraska Press Association re
garding the trip to be taken during
July or August to western Nebraska,
reported that the asHoclatlon had de-
MAYOR'S REPORT OF CONDITIONS IN
CITY AT CLOSE OF FISCAL YEAR
The disposal of garbage by Incin
eration and the erection of a plant
for that purpose was Berlously dis
cussed by the new city council Tues- c,ded to come. tnat thir pian8 called
day night. for a special train to leave Grand Ia-
j Complaints from property owners land goJnR to Aniance and then to
ln the vicinity of the dump ground Crawford. From Crawford the mem-
wlll- probably bring about immediate ben of tne .Baiatton will go to
action providing some change from Chatiron Dy autoinobll. returning to
the present methods.
Wm. Davidson, a member of the
council, who owns land close to the
dump grounds, gave final official no
tice" to the council that the present
conditions .are damaging to his In-
We Are
Always Ready
to serve- vou with good
printing. No matter what
the nature of the job may
be we are ready to do it
at a price that will be
I desire first to call your attention
to the bonded ''indebtedness of the
;city. The bonded indebtedness
amounts to 1139,000, property val
ue 12,800,300, assessed valuation
1560,060. Bonds are distributed as
follows: Sewer bonds 135,000, park
bonds $5,000. city hall bonds 7,000.
water bonds $75,000, light bonds
i $17,000. The question as to bonds
$1122, leaving a sinking fund of
$272. I desire to call your atten-
Crawford and then back to Alliance, ;
down to Bridgeport and to Sidney;
back to Seottsbluff, Gering and Mit
chell and then east on the Union' Pa
cific to North Platte and Kearney.
Woodruff nail of Valentine waa
terests and that unless somethtnit l prewnt and 8p0ke to the association
dne at once he will take '.CKal steps Qn propoH,d FriHation providing for
to protect himself. counties and cities to establish -and
A resolution from, the farmer's malntaJn fom,t preserve area In the
club wa presented at the meetlnR In gtate Tne mBociiUton voted to give
which that club remonstrates against JlB Hpprova to the proposed bills,
the du ep grounds as a natural whicn read as follows:
would appear to me that this is. in-j formation together with literature to
repent and presented the matter to
he council and were agreeably sur-
nrtsed when the council agreed to
pprnprtate the f nil amount needed
or the purpose.
Mnror Romig stoted that Inas
much as the park is for the entire
ty he felt that it was the city's
Mace to pay for this part of the park
ogrsm and the vote on the ques
tion waa anenlmoua.
Tnder this plan a supervisor will
placed at the park during the
months of Jone. Jftly and August to
complete charre of the park, to
rrsnse apd supervise the play and
p conduct of the children making
e of the rrounds snd the apparatus
be installed.
Professor Crawford, principal of
he high school, is very probably the
Mg who will be secured for the pos-
ion.
is, in my estimation, a very poor bus
iness method. I might call your at
tention to the sewer bond of $35,000.
These bonds draw 4 H per cent, mak
ing the Interest for the year $1,575.
There has been levied a three mill
levy to pay for the Interest and cre
ating a sinking fond. The three mill
levy would amount to $1,683. which
would only make a slaking fund of
$106. The park bonds of $5,000
draw 5 per cent interest, which
would amount to $250, with one mill
Satisfactory.
Next Tuesday evening, the O. E. 8
will hold the annual election of of-
fteers. and a good attendance Is d
wired. Remember the date Tuesday
evening. April It.
breeding place for rats which emi- AN A(,T , 8Uthorl7 incorporated
tion to these facts. It has been the grate to the surrounding country. villages and cities, without regard to
practice, heretofore, of previous ad- I" anticipation of trouble from t.aM nr r,0!,ulatlon( to establish for-
mlnlstratlons, to follow the example these quarters and with a view to prpH4nr, arpni, ,,a ,0 authorise
of carrying Just sufficient fund In or-'eliminating the unsanitary cond!- thp ,,.. of bonds nml the levying ,
der to take care of the Interest and jt'ons. Mayor Ronilr had made p.evt- of taxM for ,t pur.jia8o and raaln-
rarry a very little sinking fund. It I us investigations ann nu p....,- t,.,,.,nrt. thereof and for the repeal or
i.H .!. pid p:uts of acts. In con
flict with the provisions of this act.
lie It enacted by the people of the
trit, if N-bnnka: Section 1. Every
Incorporated villnve or city without
rejrard to class or"poiviUtlon, is here
by authorized and empowered to es
tablish and maintain a forest pre
serve are and for iimt purpose is
hereby authorized and empowered to
receive In fee, by ilt. grant, devise,
purchase or eoiulemnatlon, lands
havlnr natural timber thereon or
deed, a poor method. .This matter
should, at the time the budget is
made, be given careful considera
tion. I realised for sometime the
ureent need of a better method of
handling our bonds. I. therefore,
took the liberty of appointing ten
men of the City of Alliance, which
will be known as the Tax Commis
sion board. Thene members. In con
Junction with the City Council, will
so over the questions very carefully,
tflve out concerning the plan rf In
cineration, snd the question became
one not of h need or value of a
plant but of the best manner in
which to finance the building of n
plant and onrchasine of equipment
for the purpose, which It Is estimat
ed would eot somewhere between
$6,000 and $10,000.
City Attorney Robert Reddish was
Instructed to give an opinion at the
next meeting as to the city's author-
levy it would amount to $561. there-' tered unpaid warrants to date are
by leaving a sinking fund of $S1. 814.913.7T. The amount of regis
The cltv hall bonds of 17.000 draw tered- warrants - uanald to April 1,
snd perhaps derive seme wsy where- lT to make an annropristlon snd si- ,andjl ,uttAble for reforestation or
so on the feasibility or voting nonas. afforestation, whether said lands De
It Is more than likely that the mat- witmn ttt corporate limits or within
tor will be put up to the people at a tn) couaty, snd to bold. Improve,
special election this spring. I control and plant such areaa by for
raring a ntv of Second Cla j ' tor park and
T.t we.er Nebraska is on the Purpose.
p grade and making substantial
by they may be able to Increase the
sinking funds of bonds each year.
The report of the city treasurer
from April 1, 115. to April 1. 1016.
will show that the amount of regis-
progress is shown by the fact that
6 per cent Interest, which would
make $20 Interest per year, with a
one mil levy of $561, lesvlng a sink-
ln fund of $141. The water bonds
of $75,000 draw 5 per cent Interest,
making the Interest 3,750 per year
with a six mill levy. It would amount
to $3,666. leaving a shortage of
$284 of psyin the Interest snd
leaving no sinking fund. The light
bond of $17,000 at 5 per cent woul I
be an Interest of $850 per yesr, a
two mill levy on this bend premium
116. was $3,008.69. The difference the cUJ of 0ering la now a city of the
' (ConAmtfi en page 4)
between thnee amounts la due to the
fact that previous to this administra
tion there was practically no curb
Ine doue and no ruttering whatever
It mirht be interesting to know at
this time that the unpaid curbing
tax to date amounta to $4,288.28.
unpaid walk taxee to date are $932 -38.
At the present time the ligh
department la holding $5,000 worth
(Continued on page 2)
second class with a population of
1100. Pour wards have been estab- j
llshed. At the municipal election
last week A. N. Mathers, president or
the Gering National Bank, was elect
ed the first mayor of the city by an 6
overwhelming vote. Mr. Mathers is 7
one of western Nebraska'a younger f
men who are making good, and who 9
ar doing the constructive work that 10
is placing this end of the slate In the u
front riink. 12
WEATHER REPORT
Bj Got t Observer Hicks
Apr.
as
Max.
4S
34
44
63
76
80
74
Rain
.61
.07
Snow
4H
1
