1
'V," :
THE WEATHER FORECAST "
Cloudy to-day; warmer and probably
rain to-morrow.
Hightst temperature yesterday, 56; lowest, 45.
Detailed weather, mall and murine reports on ptio 16.
IT SHINES FOP ALL
PRICE TWO CENTS.
VOL. LXXXIII. NO. 226.
NEW YORK, THURSDAY, APRIL 13, 1916. CO"rlpl.i,im,6y the Sim Printing and PubtUhtng Attociatlon.
GARRANZA ASKS
TROOPS' RECALL,
IS LATE REPORT
Mi'SMitfp From Chief
Lansing Said to De
mand Action. ,
to
MILITIA IS NEEDED,
ARMY MEN SAY
Will Have to Be Called if
Army Stays in
Mexico.
TEKSHING'S ADVANCE
SOUTH OF PARR A L
Line of Communications
Now Strung Out Nearly
500 Miles.
Th New York Americas pulilUbe
U. following de.patete tkli moralati
Qoeretaro. Mexico. April 13 Tha de
(.no (ioTerameat of Meileo to.alfht
t,nt a ante In tke Meilraa repreieata
tlte In WanhlBtloa to be dtlliered to
sfrrelarjr I.aailaf.
It Umaadea tha withdrawal of Ike
American troops from Meileo.
n (ii-.onr.K 11. ci,rmbtji,
Sprcial Corretponelent of T as Bo.
HEAI-QIAIITEKS AMERICAN ARMT,
got-TH or N'AMtauiPA, Mexico, via radio
to Columbus. X. M.. April lS.-Scouts
te-urnlnc from the Santa Clara alley
nv .limlncz I.opex. Villa's second In
.nmmand, who waa wouhded In the
Columbus raid. Is now bo nearly re
tovered that he has abandoned the
1 nor and a now rtdtnic with hla band
of fifty. Amonff the prisonera taken In
tl. lat few days la Gen. Juan Gutier
rez, who waa betrayed by a man whose
wife he had stolen In a raid on Amer
ican. Amonc tha horse picked up by
tmy scouts Is the animal ridden by
Arthur McKenney when captured and
executed at Caaas Grande. The
low. with the brand of the I'alomas
c if Company, was so badly worn
u' v hard riding that he waa left
ie found. The condition of tha
l-orfe indicates the haste with which
tie V.. Ist.i raider are trying to avoid
t rm'.
uorm:r sees need
of state militia
Rriiiilars I lirn Coultl 'r I ed In
IIIm Hunt.
El Apill 12. Militia of some
! tb .tHte, probably those of the
uthwe!, win have to lie summoned
0- Mexican duty unless the United
p'Jifs arm retires from Mexloo or ae
iurth tlie u of the Mexican railroad
for transporting all supplies, according
t nfornutlon In military circles on the
t' rir to-da.
Wuli tli- information tecelved here
' Jay f..im the south that Gen. I'er
t s's advance had proceeded jioilth of
1' ml hi t,ie hunt for Villa It was es
t ih'hd I Hie mliiils of armv men that
t mul h,e more force In a short
vine nr rstire from the field.
The svict location of Gen. I'ershlng's
iJumf 'roops was not given to-day,
' mesas from an authentic source
J they were south of Parral.
Ailcej received to-night by American
11 r.lrg men through Mexican couriers
v that American mining properties at
strra Mojada In the State of Coahulla.
n-iily-fue miles north of Torreon, have
'fn riiUltil anil looted hv Villa bandit
.Tie raids occurred April 6 and the band
tf raiders numbered about 100 men.
t-'nrrania olllcials did not offer any
'onflrmatlon to-day of the death of
Mt!a, althoush asserting that the story
gen-rally rredlted amonir the na
l" In Chihuahua city and southwest
mere (.initially they said. However,
't Hie Carranzistas. like the Amer-
's. fort, wcio taklnc no chances on
i report hiiifr true and were contlnu
thsir cainpaicn.
It asserted that more than 4,000
''"Mltullnnallst troop would come
forth (mm th vicinity of Torreon,
vieretarr, and Aguas Callentes for lm
"lime npcrations asalnst Villa. It
2H ndrnltr-rf In 4-n lrlat nnnA.lt.
J)A'!laf, Arl.., to-day that Gen. I'. Ella
' Cairania commander of the
" of Sonora, had ordered the forces
, mobilized n Sonora west of the
Hltuatius. State line to enter Chlhua-
' na Join In the pursuit of Villa.
llemnnit Wlthdraal.
Amerlrans, Including many army of
"W, ate concerned over the movement
i. C.irranzlstus from Sonora Into
iiuy can "tne rear of the Amerl
mh sipertiMor!," coupled with Carranza'j
.la"on ,ar,fe torcet moving
k Vrom interior. Many believe
ine fompietlon of thlB trooD'a move
"tr.t . followed by a peremptory
"....Hu ior tne wnnarawai or tne Amer1
force
Shlpincnus of supplies, consisting of
inun a uozen cars of nay and oats
w horses, were started to-day to Chi
wuiua city to American Consul Marlon
''If h. r III hn . I n .1
. ... in. .M.llt.. WW! IU V.VII, .
'"I and hi scouting forces. If this
;;''io( or shipment Is satisfactory It la
inai it nilsht be poaslbla to send all
trur If,. Inln AfA.l u,. I... .HAM
"cm here io Chihuahua dtjc or soma
:-ran toiuii of there, from which Gen.
---,,; ,.,JUH diHtnoute h, .uDPlles.
is, however, would leava ths Amerl
fns(nuf(f on Third Pag$,
TO FORCE HUGHES ON BALLOT.
Mandamus ProcreiUuuk Corlrm
plated la the (Hate of Ore.oa.
Half; il, Ore. April 1!. Mandamus
properdin" are contemplated to forte
the name of .hut Ice Hughe on the Ore
son ballot If Hecretary of State Benjamin
Olcott refuse to accept a petition to be
Med here to-morrow for thin purpose.
It Is said that Hughes ailmlreri are de
termined that the Jurist's name shall
go on the ballot.
Hecretary Olcott ha taken the posi
tion that ha would not place name. of
any rrealtlentl.il candidate upon the bill
lot unless nuthorlxed by the candidate
to do bo. Justice Hughe uniformly ha
refused to permit hi name to be placed
upon primary ballot In other State,
and ha not authorized. Olcott to the
contrary.
GERMAN BANKERS SEE DEFEAT.
.Valluu li. natulan to tint
Heat Trrma Possible,
Special Cable te$patck to Tbc Scs.
Paris, April 12. William Folev. the
(leneva representative of N. W. Halscy
Co. of New York, airlved In Pail to
day. Ite said thai he saw at Frank
fort on March 6 h partner In a tlrm
i of New York banker, who told him that
Herman financiers are convinced that
Germany no longer ha any chance of .day by Senator Work, ltepuhllcan, nf
nnal victory, although the war may con-1 California. In a speech dealing with
uZ.'?! n.lr'T'lh,UT: 'ifri"001"1 " Political condition In the
many I fighting fur the best possible. . ... .
terms. ' nation the Senator declared the ue of
The banker Instructed .Mr. Foley to 1 the uunie of Justice tliiKhe n a candl
sell f 100.001) i2,000,000 worth nCiuate "l mi offence lo him and to the
Japanese bonds for New York hccouiU. .,.,,....
He confirmed tepoiti nf food riot co,l,,lr-
thioughout Germany. There have been' any member uf the Hiipieine Coutt
trouble In Frankfort, but condition 1
are particularly bad In Wurttemberg and
uavana.
He ald that the Deutsche Itelchabank
boufht nil Austrian cold In October,
1U, and on thl uccount Austrian bank
hive not Issued statement since that
time.
' jld Senator Works.
OPPOSES CANADA RECRUITING. I The speech made a strong lmptesslon
on the Senate. It foinied the chief
Senator Ctaoejuette'. Mpeeeb I ,""u; ut ,llr clo;,k
room and anionic the politician for
Punt'tnaicd lir HUars. the remainder nf the day and there was
Ottawa. April 12. -Strong protest I "mel1 speculation as to whether Justice
against further lecrultlng- of men to i "ughe might deem It necessary to make
overea wa voiced In the Senate lo. a tatetnent as to his nttltude Hie best
day by Senator Choquette of Quebec. Judgment of the Itcpubllctths In on
Senator Choquette contended ,hBt I "es. appeared u be that no statement
enough men had been enlisted and said
It wa a crime for the (loverntnent to
tuk mot, fmm t'Afnym Mflia., I .... 1 1 ..... I
laborer were exceedingly scarce. The, u" ,hle JtepuUlcan agtee
remarks were greeted with hlsr from a u1U,,,',ai"r WolK," ".at 3Vln' ! f
tn .,,i,o r u- 'should take any further step to pte-
Senator Choquette Is h prominent Lib-1
eral, a former Judge and a fotmer
in i, ii, i
Mayor of Quebec.
H0R6ENTHAU QUITS TO
HRIP WHiRfiN FlftHT I
flLLr YllLOUn 0 riUlll
A brlll I. KlkllS Will lift Alll-'
liflHsnlorslii if KpKipiiH
t ion Is Accepted.
Washington. April 12 Henry Mor
genthuu, American Ambassador to Tur-1
L-.v i,.s 1.1- r..i.,,,.in .
oecretary or mate n-ing. tr ine res-
I D"n it Inn lu 'irtjsAth4.i Aritsfiltt T 1 .IL'llit itr
...vv...... .. ........ ...
New York will be appointed lo the '
Tl,.b ah il..
Mr. Morgenthau Is to confer with
l'resldent Wilson to-morrow morning.
He desires to remain in the I'nlted State
In order to put his shoulder to the wheel
with his colleagues of the 1S12 cam
paign to secure the reelection of Mr.
Wilson. I ncertalnty exists lis to the
decision which the l'resldent will reach
upon the resignation, because It I said
that a change of diplomatic lepresentu-
tlvc lu Constantinople at this time
might not be without embarrassments.
The matter will be tlireslieii out ai io-
ZZ.Xr:Z::H?:,- .."I. f. r.:
, ...........1..,,,
...... ... - -
Is to return to Turkey about May t.
lleuorls of Mr. -Morgenthau' teslgna-
tion have Ispen appearing from time to
time since Marcn. 1914. when It was said
ut Washington Chat he would exchango
his nost as Ambassador for the chair
manship of tie.' board of control of the
New York Federal Reserve nam, it
wa understood at that time that lift
Neleon Mortis of Chicago had been
picked a his successor to Turkey, and
that the change was contemplated ue-
cauee of Mr. Mortrenthau'a known desire
lu obtain the inanclal position.
Mr. Moro-enthatl helped President V il-
sou in his first campaign for the Piesl
dency uh chairman of the tlnance com
mittee of the Democratic National Com
mittee, lies friendship for the l'resldent
1 widely known. A number of Demo
crat consider that he can be of Ines
timable assistance In the coming cam
paign because of his Influence ns well as
his business ability. It also has been
said that there 1 another reason for his
dealro to leave tno roreign nipiomaiio
field. A number of leading ciuzen navs
vnreil the belief that he would be a
logical candidate for the office of .Mayor
of New York on the fusion ticket nt the
next election.
GEORGIA G. 0. P. HITS LYNCHING
Demand 10, )()( for Family of
Kvery Mob Victim. I
Macon. Ga., April i:. An antl-lynch-j
Ing plank was written into the Itepubll
can platform adopted here to-day by
the State convention, it demands that
the State pay to the family of a person
lynched J10.000 and that the Sheriff in
the county where the lynching occurs
be Ineligible for reelection.
AMERICANS LOSE MINES.
Option on Corn Coro Property, Bo.
Hvla, neported Abandoned,
ftrenal Cable Vetpatrh to Th Bon.
Paris, April 12. A llnnnclal paper
says that In view of the failure of the
American roup to pay on April 8 the
Mcond Instalment of fG.000 ($25,000)
for renewing Its option on the Coro Coro
copper mines the option ha? been tacitly
abandoned.
Options on Ihe Goto Coro United Cop
per Mines were obtained for an Ameri
can syndicate headed by John D, Rnn,
president of the Anaconda Copper Com
pany, on March 7 last, according to des
patches from Paris on that date, later
confirmed In Wall Htreet. The price men
tioned In the options was I8,7f0,000.
The Coro Coro copper district lies In
the basin of Lake Titlcaoa, Bolivia, The
transaction was said at the time to fore
shadow exploitation df Bolivian copper
mines by other American Interests.
-en-KSIAN CASK AdAINHT UKKMANV
Ueora Bwnard Uhaw, who Infuriated
Enllsnd by pointing out the good points In
asme.iur's ease. Uy ty atrman Amerl.
cans In "st SusSer Nv Tork Tuum,
ifril lltb. Order In adrsoce. Adv.
LURING HUGHES
IS AN OFFENCE,
SAYSSENATOR
Works Denounces Politi
cians Effort to Tempt Su
preme Court Member.
MOKE MOVES SEEN TO
SMOKE OUT'' .M'STICE;
Wasimmito.'. April 12.- A strong pro
test against the attempt to draft Asso
elate Justice Hughe of the Supleme
Court as the llepubllcnn nominee for
President waa voiced In the Senate to-
I tempted by an offer uf u numlnutlun
for l'reldent of the United State and
refuses the offer because he I a Justice
of the Supreme Court unit for that
reason cannot conscientiously accept u
nomination to a political oltlce or en
gage 111 politic lie will ha e rendeied Ills
country u eient and lasting service,"
"uum vr
t'onMdet
loiiMdence In lluahe.
. .. .... ... ..... . . .....
eiu ine o-e 01 ni! num.', iiui itu n-..
"eneve mat tie win vioiaie an oi irn-
traditions of the bench or commit Hiiy
Impropriety In accepting another call to
public duty If It should come to him
One of Mr. Hughes's friends In the
Senate said there had been hints recently
from circles very close to the favorite
'"- " Jl'"- i The also agreed to favor
tlce Hughes and ring from him a more Tlonipson , umrluifd so as
1:"1,!?,!!!"tV.'rh'C': X., til" P"vl-e that, instead of the courts
effect of eliminating him. This .-euator
lid not oonnect Senator Works's speech
with the scheme, but ho Intimated there
i probably would oe oiner similar uii-i-;
dents, though he seriously doubted if
Justice Hughes would feel caned on to
make any other statement
In the advance copy of the Woiksi
speech given to tne press ine nan e i
Justice Hughe did not npe.ir. but the
script briefly to bring In the name of j
Hughes Near the close of Ills renraiks
enaior ioui iifiMuru innn n- imnu
and while he wj.s denouncing the efforts ,
, )omlcllnM to invade the Supteme I
" ... . . 1
(,( urt flir , ,-and date Senator vvurhs
, , , .
-.....
Whether Justice Hughes I going to,
,. ni ii i in,, tn be used as a ran ill- .
date In a illtlcal contest Is of great
Interest and profound Importance to the
people of the country at large. Whether
one man or another Is named as the
candidate s of little importance coin
pared with the question of whether u . pieslcieiit
member of the Supreme Court Is used The general strike older l not to be
to advance the inteiest or secure the come effective pending a tlnul .oiifer-
.. ... ,.!lili niirtv" 1 ence Willi the crilltr.lctol . If the le-
oled for Wilson.
s. ii.,. fir ua ku n.us not jr iiifi-iuseii
hi. , eVn..al choice for the Presidency. I
i He refused to support ltoosevelt In 191'J
- ... iin...... I .,, in." .
and although a Republican vuieu tor
Pi evident Wilson because, he explained,
through the manipulation of Gov. John
son and tlie 1'rogres.slve.s In California
the Republicans had no tepiesentatlun
on the ballot a a party organization.
Deploring the Injection of politic Into
the meparedness movement. Senator
Work In hi speech said further
iui.iiti .
, cannot take time now to enumerate ,
.i i .ttltiltt.' nf 4lwt frii. In
L.iVi iim . .,f th s lei milic but there Is f e "' !,lrlli''' wn" present at the meet-
one tha st ani1 "rK'"" "'"'' H
worst ? and mo't i. ee to, of them all. I '"",pt'
, ' 'i.i .i n.,iitie. ir.. .......
fs.n ,lltles Is 'ruthless In Its demands
and Invade tae most sacreu precincts or
the national Government.
"It Is seeking place and pelf und power
wherever and whenever It can find en
trance. Just now It U attempting to
Invade the Supreme Court of the United
State. ThU attempt to bring tho highest
Judicial tribunal of the country or any
member of It Into politics should be re
sented not only by the member to whom
the tempting offer Is made hut by the
wholo country "
llemocrnllc Senalor ,tiree,
' Following Senator Works's speech a
Democratic Senator. Mr. Thomas of Col
orado, heaxtllv approved It.
"F.very word uttered by the Senator
on that' subject Is unanswerable," said
Mr. Thomas, "The lesson which It will
teach Ih one that should make II a part
not only of imtlonal hut of State affairs.
wa lemlniled, wnuo tne .-cnainr was
spenklng, that In one of Men States uf
the Union which contain a constitu
tional provision to thn effoct that no oc
cupant of the bench Hhall during hi
term nf office bo a candidate for nny
other than a Judicial office, two members
of the Supreme bench of that State,
one a Democrat and the nriver a ue
publican, are to-day nctlve, candidates
for a seat In this body."
Senator ThomaH explained later that
V.e referred to the State of Nevada,
where Patrick McCarren la a candidate
for the Democratic nomination against
Senator Key littman, and Ohnrles Nor
cross Is a candidate for the Republican
nomination In a field of candidate. Both
McCarren and NorcroH are members of
the Nevada Supreme Court.
SCANDAL1FA8TEST TRAVELLER.
Wisconsin Professor Finds Flatters
Second, Trnth the Slowest.
,,.., win Alirll ! I.o,.. I liei.ljf i uiiiuiomi m inn co.lipi rsaeu
xvrti Moi.0 Jnrds wrLTlrt1'11, "rUfTh' unl0"' paW tl,ut a c a
iveis l.ouu yiiros per socon i, ncord- . . i..,i tnr n str k inline i. n
travels
lug to Prof. Benjamin Snoiv, head of
tho University of WIsco.isln'H phyrlcs
department. Prof, Snow baes hla cal
culations upon obscrvutloiiG made at the
university.
Flattery has the seconi greatest speed,
the professor find, travelling from s't'O
to BOO yards In the aame tlm?. Truth,
however, ho declares, Is slowest of nil,
movlnr only about two nnd a half yaids
pr second. The computations, ha raid,
went based on the spssd of the eetinc?
of an alarm clock, which is zero.
AGREE TOTAKE
SUBWAYS FROM
SERVICEBOARDI
Kepublican Senators Will
Support Plan for City
Commission.
MITCH EL TO APPOINT
THE SEVEN 31 EM HE Its
Aibnt, April 12 Tlw Republican
State Senator in i-oufeience to-night
considered the bills Intioduced to carry
out the recommendation of the Tiiomp
son lnetlffatlnir committee and the
bills Introduced by Senator tiiirllug.tme
hUKgested by the New York City I'ubllc
Set Ice t;onitnlwton,
The coufeielue ugrred to euppoil the
Thomion committee bill inovldlug that
Maor MltiCiel may appoint a Jfew York
dty rapid transit commission, of seven
membei If th Hoard of Kstlmate and
Apportionment adojit a resolution re
questing him to appoint such a commis
sion. Ma or .Mltchtl and Comptrollei
I'rendergast will be two of the mem
lr of this commission, wlilch I to
tuUe over the contml of the New York
city subway conettuotlun wotk fioni the
rir.t District rulitlc Sen Ice Commis
sion. The conference voted down the llur
llnganie bill, f.ixored by the New Yoik
city I'ubllc Service Commission, taking
away from the public service corpora
tion" the right to review nn oulcr of the
Public Service Commission by certiorari
procvedlriKS. It nleo MUfi down the
Thompxon (oinniltt.' rate reparation
bill, which would iiermlt the I'ubllc Ser
vice ( omnilslon to put a reduced rate
Ill force from the time of the tiling nf J
the complaint. ...
In the plnce of thee two bills the eon-
ference agreed to support bill which,
..-...M ,...,V,,..i o... i, i.ii , vi r-,...,.
i ilssloii to render Vl. islo i li r te I
n..i?.. VT.!. . IV . "..I!
cire .i.H,l ,rui uinrsr. nil. .vi.i.ru.io
Division of the Supreme Court giant
. . .
nie commission a longer time.
This bill retained lo the corporations
the right of appeal bv certiorari to the
Appellate Division once In each case,
and where the different Appellate Divi
sions disagree on u state of farts the'
questions can go to the Court of Ap-
lmpo,lnB a .S.000 penalty In case,
where there Is disobedience to orders of ,
Ih. rnmml.lnn J,v cnrnorallnn.. Ih lorv I
may Impose such maximum penalty or
" - - - J ' - -
a lesser verdict.
The bill turning over to the Perietal
Government the administration of the
wor) of th( h,aUn p-i,. nf th port '
()f N,w York at the quarantine station
wa 111Iirm,(1 b). n V(lte of ,, t0 6
...m Mnn crfl'Il.' IV Tf.'fW
-Ht r UK L I ) .'1 I ULUt.
IliiBlnrer. oir to Mrlke If
I nil I .
r,ni,rni. i'il
iniiereiiee i nil.
A geueial strike to complete!) tin up
th
iiIiuiiv iiinstrnrilim u ih uuieeill
sibwiv .onstriii-t on was I
upon by the Safet.v Kngluetrx Ciiinn
at a meeting last night at Xievnoit Hull,
134 Kast Flftv-font lb street The volii
was 37U to 1U., according lo a state
ment given out by .Matthew McCouvllle,
suits of this conference, are not satlsf.ic-
lory to the engineers the stilke order
, , mt effect Immediately, accord-
,. ,
. V. Mr- i,r, ',m""'' . M
iik.v iiic iuiii ...
Hon hinges will take place e.om time
iu-uu.. v. ... ,
the meantime the piesent strike I to
be extended. Mr. McCV.nvllle said
The decision was reached ut a late
hour last night, the vote helm; luken
..r.,.1,1,1 iMt.liilulil ufler Mevei-.ll tesl vules
had been taken to sustain the executive
board In Its action lu caning out tne
... .... n-,,.,,1....... .....inn
- ' "e'ThV, rZ
air
worker In the Hast Hlver tunnels, who
.. ..
After ii ii all day conferrnin m -ster-1
y. union leader uctbig for the work-1
day. union leader uctuig for the work
men In the new subways now on strike,
and M'presentntlvcs of the contractors,
found last night that they could not
agree. The unions have Issued n call
to nil workers on the Font Hlver tubes
to Join the utrlke to-day and tie up the
work completely.
Whllo apparently both sides made
concessions nt the meeting arranges! for
by Chairman Oscar S. Straus of the
Public Service Commission, neither side
yielded nnough to satisfy the other, and
the subway strike scems to be no nearer
He end than before.
The chief point of difference seemed to
be tho minimum wage for common labor
ers und the pay that a llmberman's as
sistant should receive.
The contractors offered $2 a day ns
the minimum wage for common labor lu
Manhattan nnd $1.S5 as the minimum In
Brooklyn and Queens. Tho union's rep
resentatives said that this wuh not nn
Increase, ns It was the minimum already
established.
Contractor OrTer IO Per t'enl.
In the evening, .when both sides were
worn out utter a day spent In arguing,
Chairman Straus made a statement In
which he said that both sides recognized
the fact that common laborers were get
ting less wages than they should get.
Ha said the contractors offered a 10 per
cent, raise to their laborers who were
getting less than 12, In Manhattan and
$1,85 In Brooklyn. He added that the
contractors nsserted that such a raise
would add 11 per cent, In Manhattan
and 18 or 17 per cent, iicross the river
to their ipuyiollT"
"As to tho actual percentage that the
10 per cent, advance would mean," con
tinued Mr. Straus, "that Is disputed us
much n the exact minimum rate that Is
now belim paid Is In dispute."
Henry Kuhlmann of tho compressed
been Issued for ii strike to-day by nil
hoisting engineer, temporary pipefitter,
chauffeurs and workmen In allied trades
In the Kast Jllver tunnels, between Old
Slip and Montague street. The barge
men engaged In dumping a heavy laysr
of clay over thn river tubes will also be
asked to Join the strike. The Interna
tional Brotherhood of Teamsters will bo
asked to take action to-morrow,
flREAT BKAR STRING WATMI.
5i the rsse of six glass stoppered bottles,
i.e.
DANIELSHISSED,
FISKE CHEERED,'
ATNAVYLEAGUE
Reuterdahl Culls Him
American Dreyfus: 'White
House (iaffs Officials.'
SE LI OMAN OFFEltS A
WAlt HEVENUE CUKE
i
Wasiii.nutuN', April 12. -Secretary
lJ.inlels wn hlKsed, Hear Admiral t'lske
was cheered und the White House wa
charged with being responsible for tha
gauging of naval officer at to-day'
seixlon of the national convention of the
Navy League of tha United States.
Thcue outbursts were the result of a
letter from Secretaty Daniel, to Col.
Hubert M. Thompson, head of the
league, refii'lug permission which was
, , , ........ .
asKeit for AUmital I lske to read a paper -
he had prepared o naval strategy. I he I
article already had been approed for
publication In the Naval Institute pto
leeditiK. The paper was read by Will
iam II. Leads. Maor of lke Kotest,
111.
'This question Involves the constitu
tional right of free apeoch," tald Col.
' ," ... i, "'IT... ' V.t.,.1, T .i-V,
that an officer of almost llfty year .
service, acknowledged as one of the
leaders of hi profession, had 4etii de-.
tiled the right lo a that two and two
make four"
Henr lleiileidalil. naval expert, ail-
thor. uitlet. leferred to Admiral Kielte
as tlie lirefu of till AdmlnlKti'Stloii.
He n.ilil that never In th liistoiv of
the nav has an officer been placed In
such h false iKieltlon as Admiral flske.
'iM.,.,, i. .,.i,.i I
,,,t,Hnv .,ial .hi. wholesale
' ." 1 ul ". sn inai tin wholesale
f.T K..s ut ''1,Ke Je in-
l'h'"-'l KagginK of Admiral Knight does '
f ,, .,.
. .. . .
orlgln.ill, but fioni the White House.
He pioposed three ringing cheer for
Admiral nke and these were given '
heartily. (
t.lmlrnl I'isUe'a I'nper.
Admhal Mske palier criticised the
' XlXi 'of'd'Z I
Wopn en and , wisdom o fslritegy
iKt,' Attk?,
i.ivi vi iuii..it iiiruiuu in mr ii;tri.ii-
u. Uulot lu,
sea ami
..la ...i.i... . .... i, . ........ '
MitnosL l ie mistress or rim .
.i . . ii , . ,. . i - uviiiinnj lln 1 1 , J
has expanded smoothly, symmetrically
supposedly" and In a perlc-1 of only
twenty yeais hail become "the second I
'in power and perhaps the llrtl In efTI
cleticj In the wuild
In America," said Admiral
of he' na'v v l as' Wen
lines of a method of
' Hie deieliipiiieut
...i... i.. .i.... .1...
n ...r ...irr. hi memo l o,
vwi.ueier is apparent; nl least no lotl-
ral method Congress and Congress
uione oecioes nnui esseis .inn inner
craft shall be built, how many iiirlcets
imil men slull wear the uniform.
"It is true they consult the re pint of
Ihe s,'ir,-l ;i rv nf the 'ii-i. !,n,l iiaL' IIia
. . , ,
oplnloiis of some naval offkets. and It
is 1 1 lie Hie Secret.,ri uf ill- Xaw vet.
... ,:." ; . r. ' :;. a ,.; ; :. ".. .
Isaac 'N S, limr.an
Hie .sv- YoiI;
banki
r. offered some spedfk Ideas a. to
I how
to raise Ihe revenue for mllltarv
and nav.il nrenarednes He would In-
i.. t
.
r1 - '"'"-. . l"'"1'. W
ruin .nil le.rnue ill in uii, W1CII 11
, tas,or duties on liquors, &r.. Impj,se a
i curi.u iiiii. iii.i.iii- .in., nn n.oie
r.neiiue from th.i tariff.
' .T),e current Is fast settlnf toward an
Increase of the Income lax" he banker
, Lonllnmsl, "and it I said that we may
......i 1 1 nil nnn nnn ., .1.1111,.,, . I ..,...
fi,,m the Income tax. In nlace of the con-
tlmiunce of the emergency revenue tax.
1 think that the majority of people who
have given any thought to this subject
insist that the present income tax law
t'xem.tlng Incomes under H.000 Is an
' ""wise, discriminatory enactment, and
; Hmt the m.nlnii.n. should be .educed to
' J2.U00 of I1.500. This would unnues.
lional.ly tend to creating a wider and
mre llctve interest In the affairs of the
...,,..n and lead to better citizenship."
sthod of increasing the revenue will
method
not be cumins ed and that the Govern
nient will probably decide to Increase
the normal rate of Income taxation or
dtaw together the rate of sttpeitax.
But this method will raise only ?100,nnn,.
0(i0, he held.
Hon- to finite Million.
"Hcie, It seems to ine, we must have
recourse both to Indlrtct and direct taxa
tion," he continued. ".In Indirect taxa
tion three steps seem to us Imperative.
The first I a continuation of tho emer
gency revenue law, with lis higher duties
on liquor, ita special taxes and It stamp
taxes." Tills will mean another 184,000,
000 or 000,000, which In nil prob
ability w III by no means be sufficient.
In that case we should urge additional
revenue from the tariff, The revenue
from customs tariff In ItlS waa
I ... SSIII ,1111. 11,1.1 :,ll lllittlirflll I,
ing his report. Hut both ho Secretary m ,n l e e.- S Her- A ! 1 ' 1, ' r. t , U- ll,,,,s as to ''rt"T ' Knew Von IVn-
and Congress estimate the sltuiu.on fro,, ZXMX -' T TJi l-ux Ic i ' w l. the ' Sui- ! 'V that name or by tho naino of
their own points of view and place their 11(wrilanoe w, our tlie dlfferencei hi tlie position ot the 1 . ,. ., . jn
own alue on the advice of naval of. ,,otM of tlw ,JIU .,.. list ultimo ami t ,U .ha7e f the stern Is p.irtlcu-1 tJ'""f ''' , "'rH old. sup.. -
flceis ... i r.i. i......... i,n.alipti slili. ' . " ' ' sllltendellt Of the 1 lam llirc.Amer, run
nun, i t . 1 i " .,,.-- Alter Hie liei niau i-iii.iinniifiii huh
,i,.,.ie tluuie from the standpoint of nure'... ,' ..I.i . ;...,sif ti, ereu, i,,i
revenue.
. ,, -
Mr. hellgm.ui said that hngland. the
great free trade country or the wotld,
gets more revenue from teu than nny
other Imports except tobacco; that tho
United. States could easily get JDO.OOO
(100 from tea, ne import taxes on
many luxuries could be taxed much more
heavily. He continued
'KriKland' wealth Is calculated nt
from $70,000,000,000 to vi0,000,000,000,
and the wealth of the United States nt
about $'.'00, 000.000,000. nnd nlmoet all
of this will have passed In the course of
a generation Into new hands and would
therefore be subject " inheritance tax,
If we were to levy an inheritance tax at
only one-half the rate levied by Kngland
we should prnliably have a trvenue of
some 1200,000,000."
Ho suggested that the Federal Gov
ernment might keep part of this and re
turn the balance to tho State.
BRITISH OBJECTORS SENTENCED
Tan Stent to Prison for Hernial to
Obey Order.
Spfcial Cable Df'patch to Tns Sis
I.omion, April 12. Two "conscien
tious objectors" .who were enrolled In a
non-combatant corps have been tried by
court martial and sentenced to two years
Imprisonment at hard labor fnr refusing
to obey oiders.
FOUR TAKEN IN GERMAN
SHIP FIRE PLOT; BOY-ED
AND VON PAPEN
SANK A SHIP NEAR BY, BUT
NOT SUSSEX, SAYS BERLIN
' Germans, in Reply, Insist That Drawing Proves Another
Vessel Was Attacked Text of
New Communication.
.riiif luOlt Ottiiatth to Thi Hcv
ItKHi.iN, via Amsterdam, April 12.
The Derman (lovernment's reply to the
American Stale Department's Inquiry re.
gardlng the recent destruction and at
tacks on Ave steamship wa handed to
day lo Ambassador Herald.
In three of the cases which dguie In
the German reply to the American In
quiries about the sluklnk' of a number
of meivhant vessels, the excuse Is of
. ... . ,., ,, . . . i
fered that t lie vessels In question Med
from h
submarines when commanded
, ., . , t , Mafl)i
formation It not et available, and In
tha fifth, the attack on the Sussex, the
reply a that Germany "must aseume"
that the Channel transport was not at
tacked by a submarine
In the etent there 1 still a divergence
of views between the Ceiman and t.'nlled
States Government in connection with
th cases at Issue, Foreign Minister vou
Ja , me 0ttK , aul)ln ,,
, . . , , ,
facts lo a mixed commission under
Hague iiiuxenllou for decision. Tim
Culled States !s asked to forwatd any
additional Information that It may pos-
e lo Hei lln for Gennaliy's guidance.
tirrinaii Inquiry Hampered,
, , , , . , ,
, "" "''V """'.e, l"al Tai f
,, ,.llhP n unestlon. p.u tlcul.u h In
that of the Sussex, the German iloxern-
mpnl.M nVeUilo.i wa hanmered bv
v.-,".., .;.....,..,..... .i.i-i. ..
lllr lVH Ol suilliiriii laim iipuu ui,ii iu
Hl, n(ulr.
'-che note states that only one Oeinian
nubmatlne waa near the vicinity of the
Sussex at the time she was damaged by
" explosion.
II Is stated that "German naval
0l(.f.," detroe.i iwenl-slx mine .in
. .. j.r oll wni, , ,ne Sussex was
"""" , ,
T',B in
i.rt.1h. " ' Vi "
oiimiainler sussuiite.i
essel he toipedoed, and ,
n.?"i'
It nas been found very
isav Phntiiirriililis .if 1
different to the Sussex. Photograph of
.. .. . , i i.u .i...
tne Musex iumb ueen cunipaicu iiu iu
7 "' "7.. .i.:: :,,iV.,
-i. ...I. Tk. ,.! ..... I 1 I. -nil r.l w
" "' "' "V" "" m
not. llerlln believes, be confounded with
the Sussex.
he conclusion drawn by tlie l orelgn
OH.ce I that the S,.ssrs. Ilk, the Tuban-,
tU. struck a llrltls h mine. he ' l'rf lB
-- l'l,..l lt,, will be
; ;
entirely saiiMieu w.m w.e
The leu l Itoe .sjoir.
Tlt. following U the text ot the note
..... . , .... .1. I..-.I1,.,. r.i
ine uiiuei sinocii nn 1 two cop es or wmcn am ui-u -mi"""1!
.,,.., ,our Kxcellemy. AmUis-ador,. i,n,.r.inhlpally from
J. . :. : . ihiiinn,
.eraiu. '"" ' - ". ,
..... ..i i r.i. t. ....,. i i.u.a ii.oii sun.
, , ,;, ...,, iv..silentlon bv the
J.' , .7T. 7. .,' rV ,f . hlch hu
T' " ".V,'l i ... ..s Tt
First- The IMBllsH steamer er -
lndale. A steamer, which was pos
i it .. .1. tt.-.. Ih,Il-oK. Kfm nfsniimriHl
, fi.e eietilng of Match K. In alifM of
, i. i0.-t. i, u on the lr i coast, uy ,i
?.,.'. ,, ... rine
iTh ' f termer, as soon as she noticed
, rl,,e which was running unsub-
"'", rne,l md steamed awav. She
, meit,eo, luinri in., P.c...
de.e.l to halt bv a wnrnhajr shot
She paid no attention, however, to tills
wutnlng, but evtluguisheil nil lights and
attempted lo. escape. Tim vessel was
then flied upon until halted, und with
out further ordets lowered several boats.
Afler the crew entered the boat and re
ceived enougli lime to iow away the
chip was sunk.
The name of this steamer was not
esuwisncu. u ''''' "" ''."'t a conclusion upon the .'.iso oi ine r.usex
assurance, even Ith the h, p ot the,,,,, (5eMniin Government would ask that
established. It cannot be stated with
I " .'; . '' ..n i.n.r
uescrioeu iiic-i,ri,.
n.i-ivimlcnte. Since. howiftcr, the
steamer sunk waa a tank steamer like
the Berwindvale, the Identity of the
ships may be assured. In this case,
however, the statement made that the
I Berwindvale was torpedoed without
warning would conflict with the fact.
I
Two Warning Shot.
"Second The British steamer Kng
llshman This steamer on Match .'4
was called upon to halt by a German
submarine through two warning shots
about twenty sen miles west of Islay
(Hebrides). The vessel proceeded, how
ever, without heeding the warning, and
was therefore forced ny me Biiomariae
by artillery fire to halt after nn extended
j chase, whereupon she lowered
' nl.hntit further orders.
no it
..... .... ....!... I. ...I
.1.1111111, .i in,,,... ., ...... ..."
taken to the Isials and rowed from the
... winl ,hc Hteamer.
"Third The British stennifi Man
Chester Ungln'er. It Is Impossible to
establish through the Investigation up
to the present whether the nttark cm
, MPHmer (which, according tn the
Rlvet ,.,.,..,,, 0, occurred on March 2T.
I lu the latitude or vvaierroroi is nitrin
utablo to it German submarine, The
statement regarding the time and place
l the Incident gives no sufficient basis
for Investigation.
It would therefore bo desirable I"
have more ex.'i statement or ine
place, time and attendant circumstances
of the attack leportrd by the American
Government in order that tho Investiga
tion might thereupon be brought to a
conclusion.
"Fourth The British steamer Kagle
Point. Thl steamer In the forenoon of
March 28 was called upon to halt by ,i
German submarine through signal and
shot about 100 not ISO sea mile from
tho southwest coast of Ireland, but pro
ceeded. Bho waa thereupon fired upon
until halted, and without further order
i lowered two boats, In which the crew
took their places.
"After the commandant com Inccd him
self that the boats, which had hoisted
sail, had got clear of tha steamer he
sank the steamer.
At the time of the sinking a light
north-northwest wind, not 'u storm wind,'
t
und h light swell, nol 'a lieav sea,' us
stated In the given description, pre
vailed. The boats therefore had every
prospect of belmr picked up very quickly,
bfcause the pluce of the sinking lay on
a much used steamer path.
"If tne clew nf the steamer used
only two small boats for saving them
elves. tin, responsibility falls upon
theim.ele, since thete were still upon
the steamer, as the submarine couM es
tablish, at least four b!g collapsible
boat.
"fifth The Kiench steamer Sussex.
Ascertainment of the fact whether tha
Channel te,uner Sussex wa damaged
by a German subnuu Ine was lendered
extniTiely difficult because no exuet de
tails of tin., place und attendant cir
cumstances of the sinking Were known.
and also because It wns Impossible to I
obtain n picture of the ship befur April
ti, Consequently the Investigation had 1
to be extended to all actions undertaken I
on thn day In question Match 24 In
the Channel In the general region he-1
tween Folkestone and Dieppe. 1
In that region on March 2 a long t
black craft without a flag, having a
gray fiiiriiid, ..null gray forward works
and two high must, was encountered
nbout the middle of the I'.ngllsh Chan
nel by a German submarine. The Ger
man commander reached the definite
conclusion that It was a war vessel, and,
Inderal, a mine layer of the recently
built Kngllsh Arabic class.
"He was led to that conviction by the
following facts' I-iist, by the plain, un
broken deck of the ship, second, the
form of the stern, lopln downward and
backward like a war vessel, third, she
was painted like u war vessel, fourth,
the high speed ilex eloped, about eUhteen
knot llfth. the circumstance that the
vessel did nril keep a course northward
of the llitlit buovs between Dungenesa
and Hrarhy Head, which, according to
the frequent and unvarying observations
of German submarines, Is about the
iciurse of cftinmerel.il vessels, but kept
In the middle of the channel, on a course
... .n..nn nf tl.-ivre.
.(nneoiientlv. he attacked the ves-I
, .... , t,e afternoon, middle Ku-
. ..... ... .tlAU
topean time, one arm mir-nuu -a nun---.
southeast of Hull llocis (Bullock?) Bank,
the submarine being submerged. The
torpedo struck and caued siK'h a vio -
lent explosion In the forward part of the
ehlp that the entire forwaid part was
torn awav to the bridge.
MO. sluul.lo... Wei- s..r.l.
,,'r.i ii .nl i,l. iii.lAnl fvnio-loll
, ..-rr1llia the
III. ii .1. i..... ... - ,
certain conclusion uv.n
, Kll..1t linioUs of munition were aboard
"The German commander mane a
sketch of the essel attacked bv him,
druwiiiKs of which lite encloeed.
T, rtllr(. f the -learner Sussex,
1 . .. ...1.,...1
'7 ' .'" ..' ' 1 " . "...i ... ..
ie -.ugiin paper me i.hiv .,.".. v.
...
" 1"K ,. .. ,. ...
" ?""r. ' . "' r.
j mail sui.iiiaiiiies iiiiu iii.i. ...
, ... ,k ( u , , , 1nvi, Tho
T(i - .,u, .-(UhBt'X. Ilium Uir iwuiv is...
., .,..; ,,,, ti.,-..f,iie :s.
; ;:,.,".. . is
nui.it' tiiuc lite iiijuii .
uttllbutable lo another cau-e than an
uttuck l,v n Cei muu Mlbmnrliie.
"Fur :iu explanation of the c.ie the
fact may perhaps ls serviceable that n?
fewer than twentv-slx Knglish mines
were exploded by shot bv German naval
forces In the Channel on the 1st and 2J
of April nloii" The eiitltw sea In that
vhinltv I lu tact emluligeteil by llciat-
ih inn...-- ..n.. -
not sunk. Ulf the l.iiKlleh coast It is
further enil.iliHeie.l III an Hie leasing
net. thiouvrh .leiinnii mines vrtiich hav e
i-een lain ugnmsi iuin ......u . .,i...-.
"Should th" American Government
have at Us dli-posiil further material for
. conclusion upon the case of the Susses
It be communicated, In older to subject
tills material also to nn Investigation.
"In the event that differences of opin
ion should develop hereby between the
two Governments the German Govern
ment now declares Itself leady to have
the facts of the case established tliiouRh
mixed commission of Investigation In
ui'cordanco with the third title, of the
H.icun agreement for the peaceful set
tlement of International conlllrts No
vember IS, ls07.
"The undersigned, whllo requesting
that vou communlcnto the above lo thn
Government of the United States, takes
oc.'uslon to lenew to the Ambassador
tlie assurance of his distinguished es
teem. .Iaiiovv."
The German reply was forwarded to
Washington nt noon yesterday.
In the German note tho position nf Ihe
submarine's attack on the unnamed ship
in the Biltlsh channel, the time of the
..,, ,i,r, ..Me.
' attack und the statement that the ..hip
we sliurk forward and Ihe vessel
wrecked as far back as the bridge, cor
responds with the del ills of Ihe attack
fli the Su-sx.
A'O PROOF, SAYS PRESS.
Grrmnii Paper, lv lilcntl In.
spired, v.lopl Itfllrlnl Altltnilr.
Sptflal Cable Onpatch to Tin; Sr
Tub IIahuk, April IS, Semi-official
weiiapers In Germany have evidently
been Introduced to man mo same niiiiiuie
as the Government III regain lo tho
Sussex explosion,
The Frankfurter .utunu makes light
of the report of the American naval at
taches of the Paris F.mbnssy and nays
that even If It were proved beyond ques
tion that piece of a torpedo of German
manufacture were found on the Sussex
It would be no proof that the toipedo
wiib tired by a German submarine,
WORKS ON NEW NOTE.
WsKbliiKtou F.xpects Wilson to
Make Stroma Ce.
Washikciton, April IS. President
Wilson hua' made up his mind nn to th
Continued on Second Page,
ACCUSED
Confession Says Diplomatic
Attaches Helped Finance
Conspiracy.
BOMM FACTOI.'Y IS
LOCATED HY POLICE
Nature of Chemicals Shows
Device AVas tho Work
of a Scientist.
MONEY IXTJIESCUEMI'.
CAME FJIOM ItlNTELEN
One Prisoner
Fiijui Biff
Teuton Liner, Others
From Jersey Towns.
Iieull of gigantic conspiracy In m.i
m(. to hundreds of steuniehips carrying-
supplies for the Allies on both the I'aolrio
and Atlantic oceans were unfolded last
night with the arrest of four men
churned ivlth attempted uriVil. Tlie
specific charge against the men Is that
they manufactured and cuuxed a fir
bomb to be placed on hoard the Klik
Oswald, which sailed from this pmi on
May 2. lf15.
A confession by Opt. Ch.nlc von
Klelst, olio of tho four prisoner. ds
speclllcally that moro than II e
bombs were manufactured and thai tlie
money for the manufacture of tho bmbs
and for the purchase of a iPinark.itd
chemical compound v.i furnished by
Francis von Klntulen. a Lieutenant Op.
tain in tho German urmy, who Is now a
prisoner of war In Knglnnd, and by
Capt. Franz von I'dpen and Opt. Wall
Itoy-Kd. respectively military and naval
I attaches of the German Kinli.'ii, win.
were dismissed from tlio countiv 1 ut
December.
I T!.- ... a .. n I. . ,
- .mi m. n nn., ..t-i iii,ii-,mi iiimrr
arrest last nlijht nt I'jllco llc.idiiu-irtert
I by CMpt. Thomas J. Tunney of tlw bomb
I squad, actinic under directions (rum
Deputy Polled Commissioner Guv S' u I,
are Mild to have workud directly under
orders fnm the threo Germans iti'n-
! troned above. They are:
, MMi (.iid(p Ktrrtt
1
(,l,f Mn K plst. ,- j ,!,! 1,
. ,.'' ,,..; . , "
ii.Tj ,ii ii.i ii.uutn sirecc,
Hob.iken. x. J. He I, ,, retired German
army Captain, .killed In chcmlstrv.
C'apt. Ott.v Vulpert, 4 years old, hoi n
In Germany, superintendent of tho Alias
Steamship Company, a subsidiary of thn
iiuiiiLiiirg-meriran Line, llvlnp- at '.it
-UJ oIIh street. Uloomlleld. N. .1. He
. T.v,i,.,,r , .....
smiiiiiiciib ui ini' i .aiiiiiiim.
docks m Jlohoken. living .it l! Smitli
! Hillside avenuo. Glen Hldae.
. Kniest Becker. 32 vear l,l. bom In
1 7i.,L ... !; '..T. . . "V111' 11 . . !
s, t..i .... ,. , .
1 :. " "" ""e, ii .xuriu c.ewnan J.IOJH
I "n, r al iioboken.
The extreme penalty for the crlni
charged, it was said last night bv thi
police, is forty-five years In prison.
Both Vein Klelst and Becker huva
nude statements to tho police, in which
they have admitted that they handled
the tiro bombs. Von Klelst's' story t .
pecl.illy brings Into tho conspiracy the
names of German army and navy offi
cers, nnd taken lu connection with thn
, xari amount or evidence that capt. J t.n-
( ney Mnil M Imn 1V() ,)H(1) K,i;lur)ru.
for piai tlcally a v.ar. llnkn up f-ipt.
R0hrrt p.lv in tj1H cons piracy to blow
, up amniunltloii elupi.
1 "r l.vlilence to
1" pl etc.
Although the police weie careful ljst
nisht to confine what lufonnatiim they
gave out lo the attempt to destroy tho
Kirlc Oswald, It was clear from their
guarded remarks and from what llttl"
was made public of the statements of
Von Klelst nnd Becker that they h.v
uncovered the methods by which bombs
were placed on scores of ships s.illliu
from Boston, New York, liuladc lphl
San Francisco and Seattle,
The police also have been told that while.
Vou nintelen was tho Hist one to put up
money in connection with tho work hm
mission to this country involved every
means juccssaiy to prevent shipments of
arms and supplies to tin Allies C.ipt
von I'apen, after Vnn Itlntelcn's de
parture, und Capt. Hoy.F.d put up money,
and after their dismissal from tho coun
try the work devolved upon at.:l in her
men.
The evidence nalnst tho fniie met.
under arrest Is said tn bo pra. tic.il'v
complete. Iteloro any of thn four vvjs
taken into custody the police discovered
iu tlie house of one of tho men a bomb
which was an exact eliipllru'o nt th"
one found on the Kirk Oswald when sin
arrived nt Marseille on Juno S lasr
Tho police had located the factors' In
which more than 200 of theso bombs
were manufacture!, have ascertained the,
naturo of the chemicals used in Ihs
bombs, anil found parts of bombs In ill
possession of still another man,
llcnr llnmlia tVeie Mail
The nnture of the bur.li and of 'he
chemli'.il used In themselves prove the.
device, wa tho work of a wit nils'. The
bomb consists of a lead pipe ,i!iul
liidifn In lcr.Kth and nr. Inch ,ui a ',,..
In diameter. Into ono tml of the i ,,i..
was placed a cupllke pirn of alu m . i n
und tho end of tho pipe wlnio t.c tin
milium cup was fastened In.. I ,i cuver
wltli u small Jiol.i Into vvh.iii ,i .,,i
sriew fastened. Into tho aluminum cup
was poured an mid, which In mn hi
three das time would cat thioiiuli th
aluminum, nnd upon conta t .if tlu
liquid tn tho cup with u powder stored
In tho other pan or tin pipe, iiipiki
dlalejy caused an explosion ami flic.
This fire was so Intense thai If ije
stroyed both the aluminum and the lead
and set lire in the cargo, Tim l"nmi
Itself was equipped with n pleco if tin
by which It vvas Used In a Matloiiaiy p,i
sltlon. The bombs were usually placed In mmi
box or other part of the cargo, The ik-
I
if
s&sTufiIi.v,
tttti
. ? L-ii
