wwmywi"i.)i -i i
t'JL ... .111'. I.. , . . .
USSEX ATTACK PROVED, BY SUBMARINE'S CREW
WEATHER Showers probable to-night nd Friday,
JH EDITION
EDITION
"Circulation Books Open to All" I
"Circulation Books Open io All." I
PRICE ONE CENT.
Copjrlsht, 1(11(1, lir The I'rrs. rnMWiltic
Co. (The New York World).
NEW YORK, THURSDAY, APRIL 13, 1916. 20 PAGES
PRICE ONE CENT.
WW
if
pi
M
f
r
NO WITHDRAWAL FROM MEXICO,
REPLY TO OARRANZA'S REQUEST
II OF CAPTAIN OF U-BOAT
THAT ATTACKED THE SUSSEX
OFFICIALLY KNOWN IN PARIS
Obtained From Crew of Captured
Submarine German Admissions
Identical With Known Facts
German Note in Washington.
PARIS, .Iprll IS. -The Frrncli Onwrnnient, It I officially announced,
ku in its possession not only thirteen fragment of Hip torpedo liot ngnlnst
the Saitiex, but also (he names of die ( nplaln nnd I lie members of Hip crow
I the attacking (.' nimn submarine.
Tltr further slntemcnt io tuntip tlint French pnd flrllMi warships sunk
Ormnn submarine- on April A, nflcr taking prisoners the oftlcrrx nml
tntf of the Miliiiiuriiu'. H I stilted
"iSjrniatlon In the possession of tin I'rrncli (.'incrnnient concerning the iihiiio
of tlir commander and the number of the stihrunrlne which Is mi Id to haio
torpedoed the Sussex.
LONDON. April 13.- -Nrltlsh otllclals an to-day comparing thn German
admission that an unidentified steamer wan mink lty a submarine In the
line place ami at practically tho name lime thn Channel liner was dam
aged with the known farts about the attack on tho Sussex
It is officially slated that no 5
other vessel was torpedoed In the
channel fit ths time mentioned in
thn German note traiumitted to
Washinaton.
The Sussex was damaged at
J S.60 P. M. on March 24. Tho
German note states that the vei'
el attacked by the submarine
was torpedoed at 3.55 P. M.
Accordina to tho French official
report tho Susiex was south of
Dunrjeness buoys, and about in
mid-ohannel when the oxploslon
eourred. The German note says
the vessel attacked was souih ot
Dungeness buoys, and abojt in
mid-channel when she was to
psdoed. The Sussex was steaming at
about 16 knots an hour. Tho
Qarman note says the vessel tor
pedoed was steaming at about
18 knots.
The entire forward part of tho
Sussex was torn away by the ex
plosion. Tho German note says
"tha entlra forward part was
torn away to the bridge."
No submarine was seen by any
arson aboard the Susiex. Tha
German note says the submr.rino
was submerged when she tor
pedoed the steamer.
Only in tho description of the vc
Ml attacked does the German noto
(all to tally In nearly every particular
(Continued on Ninth I'obc.)
PROHIBITION BILL KILLED.
Measure Aicnlnst Smtc-iTlile Sale of
I.tqunr Net tslile III enihl.
AU1ANV, Apt II ll.-Th.' Killli.-ni bill
designed to pioxldc fm Mate-wide pro
rlbltton or tltv Milr iii.l in inuf.i' Uin of
Intoilca'uiK li'iuinx mi- li ill'-i in ihe
Assembh toilio win n n v..f oni
mltted b .i ot. of 71 i" "'
There was no iii.snni' ut n il'.
The motion n t " .mtiiiii v. to .i
Assumtilwium .Mil 'in- hi .Niw V.ii
bill
b.
GEUMAN CWV.S7 l. VI 11 S I
NOT GUILTY h 'FIZiHCO. ,
HAN ' 'li' i. inl 13 -I'limx I
rtuii, foii-tiil r. ifi,il nf lii'i in, my !
here, m l i . i h i . i.i' I d imt .
n KUl'ty I . ii tin I ii,'. ! Si i'
- DIStllei I '. 'Ill l 111 llllll- .11 lit:. I'l
JnE vIoluiiuiiM oi' iii iiii.iliiy.
the prisoners now fully confirm In
TWO BRITISH STEAMERS
TORPEDOEHND SUNK
Crew r,f f)ne Has Uccn l.andM;
CJtlier Attacked in tin? Medi
terranean Sea.
LONDON, April IS. Thn Hrttmli
ateninera Itnhert Adnmson and AnmiH
hnvn hn n torpedoed. Tlio crow of
the Itobett Ailainson has boon laud.'d.
Tlir Ire Huron u ntated that the
Anus, which was mink In thu M"d
lterranean, was unanned.
Tho Hubert Ailiimson displaced
2.03R toiiH. The Anitua was a 3, 013
ton steamer.
RUSSIAN VESSEL SUNK
BY AUSTRIAN SUBMARINE
Nine of Crew of Imperator Which
Sailed From United States
Reach Barcelona.
nAIlCEUONA (via I'arln), April 13.
Tho Russian tailing voasol Impn
rator has been torpedicd by an Aus
trian submarine In the Mediterranean.
Nino of tho crew, some of whom are
wounded, have beon landed hero by a
Dutch steamship.
Tho Imperator, of 391 gross tons,
left Oulfpoit, MIhs., on Feb. 23 for
Mnrsi'lllcs.
WARD REFUSES OFFER
TO SUCCEED BARNES
Health
Kt'i'i'l iu.in Leader St
Prevent Him elTint ,i National
( .ommitteemaii.
mI '. I I if ii Wor' 1. 1
Al.lt 1M, .-ti is. William I..
Wind. th' "'. inn lt publican lender
of Westchester Count j u hud iHt-n , m .,fnilll ,1U wuuU awake and
eel- vti-d by Hie Whitman forcea to!i,,iim"
siarned U. Ilium It.irn." ,ih National ' ,aler Mrs Wo,wr MmUt, (lf Krnnk
Cotumliteoniun. ha declined h" Am..a. luu lormer lumbund. who hllind
h.nni' Aihaiteimt ;..i.-s. ill heulth nlmt.r ,U1, years ub 'hin her love
and inability to M" I the sirnln of j tr,., ,,, Woltor. Hhu unld;
') ..unpi'.cn n:e unui hs tlje j ..jt m, ,M hrouiflil a da luppi-
! ut" Mr Wind l ii. .. at l.al.e. I M. .,,, ,. i.i,, .,i i ,..,. ,,,.
' .1 II. v
Ve oi K Slutf
V'lliull.il l .,' i" I '. e.,i. ;i f ii' n;lll
years lu fure Hal lie-.
Gov. Whitman said to. day no ono
' bud been chosen yet for tb pla.es.
E
Mrs. W'oltcr Calls Man Who
Shot Her and Killed Self
Insanely Jealous.
CHARMS WON WEALTH.
Bridgeport Woman Says She
"Played Hp" to Rich Men
to Swell Fortune.
(Special from a Staff Correspondent
of Too Evenino World.)
(UMlHir.l'OUT. April 1.1. -Mrs. Corn
Mnshew Ames Wnlter, after the denth
last mailt of her husband, who shot
hr and himself Tuesday localise of
jealousy. if itw alluring -methods
which she ued to make men of wealth
and position help her get rich, talked
j freely with th Miwons who brnuplit
l her nun's of his death. She declared
'she was a fool over to have married
lh' man nho was thn renl cause of
i'ie suicide of lier first husband. Frank
Amis, in 1001.
"There was no place in my life for
a jealous man," she s.ilil. "I have al
nlwnys played up to Hiieressful and
influential men, and throtiKh their
aid and advice f Imvo madn myaelf a
wealthy woman. I know Jitst how to
appeal to a rich man, and I Imvo
in-ver hesitated to tiso that appeal, hut
not one of them could charge mo with
atiylhliiK to which my husband could
object legally.
"Hut Woltor was Insanely Jealoui.
I to was Jealous of the memory ot
l-'r.ink Ames, tie was Jealous of poor,
denr old Mr. Tuttle. Ho was Jealous
of another udvlsep of mine, lllero
Mrs, W'olter nnnwl mo of tlie five
most prominent attorneys of Kalr
Hld County, whoe ncqualntance
with her had not been truessed by his
closest friends.
"My himband was Jealous of every
body. I'nopln thoutAtt I was (T.iddlnc;
about to cabarets. Taey did not know
(.Tint I.ouls Wolter was always hanir
Injr around, wAtcldns: ivery move 1
made. Ixiuls was Jealous of my own
mother nnd was nfrnld sh would In
fluence mn agalast him.
"Irately he had boon ettlnr worse
and worse. Ho spoiled half n dozen
big deals for nie by huttlns In. One
ntKlit he rnmo homo with a bin re
volver and a hatchet and put thorn
under his pillow when ho was Kolni?
to bed, I wont to tho police, but thoy
told mo not to worry over him. I
chaw them with responsibility for
his death.
"Just to iiilot Ws suspllcons and
to keep them from raising storms
when he cainn In und refused to bo
llux e tth.it I said I hud bi.en doliu,'.
I wi'iu to woik tn the L'nlon Metal
lic CartridKc works making war mu
nitions. I worked my nails down to
the quick, while I w.is wearinc: dU-
miimltj worth $10,000 Just to lie ubl-'
lo t.iln the time curd i back to him
.il uiu.'i .Hid save mysi'ir from his
liititu! ni.(,!,li;i Oik n.irlit ho fii ihi
eueil nie mi I went om .mil slept n
ill,- ii. nn .iflel lie li.nl irnne to nIk, n
n..th ii- '
Th' tl i.i rti. win Ii Mt.. Wullei liml
for mm is not io lie expressed lij
SU C D
OF TWO
HUSBANDS LEAVES
WOW UNMOVED
(Continued on Fifth I'ajej
MEN CAUGHT N BOMB PLO
WILL BE TRIED.
TRY NG TO SET SH PS AF RE
Four Prisoners Were Trapped
by New York German
American Detective.
TWO GERMANS CONFESS.
More Arrests Expected of Men
Who Helped Put Explo
plosive in Cargoes.
The t'nlted States Government took
chnrno this afternoon of tho prosecu
tion, of the-four Uerman consplratorn
who were arrested last nljrht charjred
with placlnc llm bombs on board tho
steamship Kirk Oswald, which took
on a canto for Marseilles In Urooklyn
laM Mn) Tho bombs, unexplodcd,
wer found tn the canto when tho
Kirk Oswald reached Mnrsollles.
Thi prisoners will be proeeiited
under Section 29S of the t'nltel States
Criminal Code, which provides ton
'oars' Imprisonment and a JIO.onO line
on conviction of having maliciously
attacked, with the purpose of nler.lnn j
or dostroyitiB property, a vessel lylnir
within tho maritime Jurisdiction or
this Oovernment It Is alleged ilia
thn tittack In this casn was madn 1'
the port of Now Tork In a rcreptlvn mood, he. nas not
Two of tho prisoners. Von Kl't found a irlrl suitable ti be his spouse,
and Hecker, who havo ni.uln pannl "I mn strictly temperate, a hnal
eonfesslons, w III lie held In lin.non hall thy and htroiiK farmer and I have
when the case. Is milllulentlv prepared been searching sixteen years for thn
to allow their nrralKimient hofore right kind of a wlfn." ho declared.
Commissioner Houghton In "m Ked.;i have yet to (lnd thn woman and
iral HulldliiR. ' t wlwh the newspapers would holp
Tho other two. Wolpcrt and llode. tne."
will be held In :n,000 hall eurh The - -
autliorltlea expect revelations which DU PONT GETS APOLOGY,
will tlx' on the prisoners and on'
Others who nre now being hoiirIiI,
responsibility for mysterious Arcs In
mid ocean aboard u acoic or more
of steamships which hnvn departed
from tlrlo port with cargoes destined
for England or Franco In the past
ten months.
Tho prisoners were ainaaod and
crestfallen to-day, when they
learned tho cheery Gorman patriot
with whom they had ussoclatnd for
wooka and who was told by at least
one of their number thn Innermost
secrets of tho plot, Is Dotective Henry
Harth, a niembor of Capt. Tunney'n
staff In tho I'ollco Department. Harth
started to work on thn matter of
flreo at sea tn cargo ships bound
from Now York for Croat Urltaln,
Franco or Italy, ten months ago
POLICE SAY TWO OF FOUR
PRISONERS CONFESSED.
The four men he finally roundod
up are:
Krnest P.ccker, thirty-two, horn tn and Is charged with assisting In dla
(iermauy, electrician on the H'"amcr ', trlbutlon of llm bombs.
Prlederii'b ih-f (SiMme, who. tne police
av, i'oiifessi'd to man. if id ii. lug hun
(IiimIk uf bomb cases.
(.'ant. Cn.irliB Von V t -;xty
seven, born in (i'Mmii. rt.tid .win '.tiii.hi i.mwi steamsnip
(terman nnv.il cipuln. brot.i. i -tn-la a' Krl'dr!. h tier (iroase, which has beon
lof C.en. von Urc.isnn, l.tlled in tho wariwd up In II . In. ken sine, the be.tm.
! four weeks ugo, and a rel Uiv of the nlng of the war Tho cases worn
lata Prince Itlsmnrclt. II is super- taken from the steamship, tho pollco
tntendent of the New .lers. Agricul- ay, to the plain of the Now Jerroy
ture and I'htmlcul tompiey of No. Agricultural and ''Ifinical Cnin.
' 113". Clinton Htr.'-l, lloiioken, and pain, at No 1 1 - ' "Union Streol, 1 1 rj.
, riiiift'ssed, accui.ling ! . potc, t.oltmi, vs ni they loiti ulled with
jthtal Ihe fire bonil." wi Io. 'led in ib I'liemi' aU mid epin.ivs which,
' hl c..uiian'H plate of iuiiiH-'n. pi'iperly .inliined, w .uld unite and
apt, fltto Wolpi i-t f. iv.fuiir, Hu- start a t. ri e tire al .. Ilxe.il hour.
1 periiilendent of the Atlas lane, a sub- 'Hie futo.y in I'lint'jii Street, u-
'ndiary of the llamliuig-Atnerlcan ' '
T
BY U.S. FOR
U. S, BATTLESHIPS
IN SEA COLLISION
Admiral Pletcher Reports South
Carolina and Michigan liscaped
Serious Damage by Crash.
WASHINGTON. April 13. A colli
sion yesterday afternoon between tho
battleships Michigan nnd .South Caro
lina, In which neither ship was seri
ously damunrd nnd no ono hurt, wan
reported to-day by Admiral Klclcher.
While tho fleet wan btc.nnlnt; north I
front Uuantnnnmo, Admiral Fletcher
said, tho two battleships "ramo In
contact" durlni; manoeuvres, noth
are proceeding under their own steam.
SEARCHED 42 STATES,
STILL WITHOUT A WIFE
Connecticut Parmer Who Has spent
10 Years in Hunt lor "Right
Kind" Now Wants Help.
(Siwlll t,, ii,, rjt'lllin World ,
munurci'OHT, Conn.. April t3.
, Joseph Cronnii. a farmei 0f Derby.
announces! to-day that hn has
'searched forty-two States und two
I countries of ljurope nnd while bo Is'
;Snn Shomi 'Heirgrr," l'nniir
I'owilrr Kin (Joes to Unrt.
Gin. T. Coleman du l'ont, former
powder king and candldutn for the
Presidential miinlnutliin, to-day forced
tho Ko Film Company to apolnirtsn (or
using his unmn In a film enllrd "lllun
Itlimd nnd llvd" nnd deiilctltig his son,
Prank Victor du l'ont, as a scapegrace
The younger du Pont Is an honor nisn
In tho Itoston Institute of Technology.
Thn spology was made before Hu
pieine Court Justice dieenhaoin.
to makn a statement, hut wan charged
with having received the completed
bmnbs.
Capt. Knno Hode, forty-four, born
In Oermany. I'lor Superintendent of
the Hamburg-American Ino, living
at No. IS South Hillside Avenue,
(ilen Hldgo, N. J Who admitted
having ,v ted as Capt von I'apen'n
agont In visits tn tho New Jersey
Agricultural and Chemical Company
HOW FIRE BOMBS WERE MADE
IN HOBOKEN.
The li.itnli asi s were mnnufaetiiroil
by Hi. her. .1 is charged, m board the
i ;erni.i!i
(Continued on Fourth Pa.)
THREE MEX INVOLVED
IN PLOT TO II LOW VP
Sllll'S 01' THE ALLIES.
lamJM!
OPT CHAS-VOK KUCIST
1
,
" ERSE.5T BECKER
CAPT. OTTO WOl-PEKT
ACTOR TEARLE IS SUED;
ADELE ROWLAND NAMED
Wife's Divnrcc Actimi i;ollovs
"Midnight Raid" Wade Three
Week Agu
As n result nf n midnight inld thn"
weekaago, Mih lloberta C'irwln-11111-Tearln
to-day brought f.ult for di
vorce against her third husband, Con
wav Tearl". tho nctor, who until re
eentlv was leading man for draco
fe rK, Tho papers lllml In thn Su
premn Court nauiu Allele Itnwland,
one of vaudevilles prettlnst wnuinii,
us i o-respondeni
hen the raid v:i made In .leieetlves
Miss liowhiiid till. I that while It was
trim .Mr T.iirle was with lor when
the raiding party hrokn in, th were
both iilisiibeil In the reading of a
new piny.
Mrs. 'I'enrl. asserts in her ruin
plaint that the visit uf her husband
t the Howl in. I .ipirtni"in was not
tor the purpi.sn of readmit a piny.
h;ven actor folk. h" allege)., do not
it i it" t li nr elvi'i in pajntiia "ii ici
. i.isl.HM Thai raiment, sh. alleges,
was woin ii ii.iili .Mix It" 1. 1 tul and
Mr Tearle
,Mr. Teiirlo onee was Known ,n "Ths
Tear) of Sheepsbe&d Uuy."
TROOPS 10 KEP AFTER VILLA
wlffl EVEN GREATER VIGOR
LONG NEGOTIATION L KELY
I Declaration in Note to State Depart
ment That No Formal Permit
Was Given to Cross Border Car
ranza Would Hunt Villa Alone.
NO "DEMAND" INTENDED,
SAYS MEXICAN EMBASSY
WASHINGTON, April 13. Gen. Carranzn, through his Secretary
of Foreign Al lairs, sent a note to the State Department to-day asking
that the United States troops Iv withdrawn from Mexico.
Before any statement on the note was made by
Secretary Lansing it was stated in official quarters
that (he American troops would not be withdrawn
at this time at least, and that while the question
was being discussed with Gen. Carranza the pursuit
of Villa would be pushed with renewed vigor.
At the Mexican Lmbassy it was declared tint the note was in no
senc an "ultimatum" nr a "demand." It was. characterized rather as n
request for negotiations looking to the withdrawal nf Ihe troop and the
taking over nf t lie Villa hunt by Carr.inza's forces
Whatever be the outcome, Ihe negotiations over the proposed with
drawal will occupy several weeks. The leisurely manner in which the
('arranza Government has been treating with the State Department since
troops entered Mexico leads to the belief that no haste will be made in the
new diplomatic exchanges.
The note declares that the American punitive expedition went into
Mexico without formal permission and asks that it be withdrawn until a
proper formal compact can be entered into between the two Governments.
It is declared that in the first negotiations Mexico agreed to a recipro
cal crossing of the line only in the event of raids following thai at
Columbus.
The suggestion is made that the State Department miinterpieted the
first "proposal" as giving permission for the crossing of the border by the
troops.
It is stated further that the Mexicans consider "the object ot the puni
tive expedition" has been accomplished in that Villa's baud has been dis
persed and in tlt.it Carranza forces are theniK'lvc- n. mtpK i!Me to
finish the extermination of the bandits.
No Demand for Immediate
Withdrawal, Capital Thinks
WASHINGTON, April 13 Oen. Cnrruiiza'a note was received l.ul night
by Hllai-o Arredondo, the Mexican representative at Washington, and was
piRHantud to Socrctary of Stato tanslng this afternoon. Tho Secretary rt -fused
to comment on It. ,
Although (icn. Carranza raised side Issue, Administration ;' 1 1 at
their first view of thn communication, regardtd the prln dpal cmt' n'l.in as
being that the object of tho punitive expedition ha3 been accomplished to
far as It can he and that the Villa bands have been ili-ipcriHl
War Department olllclals take thu vleiv thai they hove no evld' tti.it
the Villa bands have been illeieiel. because they never hove hud i! iin'lo
Information of their tmuibi r and that the very nat ire ut llm situ.it i tn give
no evidence that tho raiders Imvo been exterminate I.
Some Stall. Depai i in. tu olllclals
Depai I lie nt
confessed "nl (ou. irran,.i's nolo
was not n surprise Cotinsellnr I'olk
I'linllruied the statement in tho nolo
that When he asked for US" of tho
McMi'un ruHway that the reply was
"sitisfnetoiv." but was cou tiled with
an epr nui 'if sin pi ne Mint the
I'll i Icil Stiles l.i'l not aw.i.tid I lua I
uppioval of the pMiduig pioto. ol be
fore sending troops acioss thn border.
It wns deoUrod, ottlcUUy, however,
that no foi'inal pn.'eat mi tn eti.
try ut Oen. I'i is.li. nil's ihimn had
been pieviou.ily made I . l, :i. I'ai
rana Whtn i" nlv ie. iniopi
urosurd at Colir,.i.i-;. ,i . ..illcia'S
stated, a i'ai hii 'l-tier-i t thin
tit the hord'-i ' t '. . d. no i", lies'
i ltlll'l pel San i .1 i.ii b' ,l If uf hit
Uo el iiiiii-nf.
Statu Department ntllci.Ua look th'
vlw that Clcn. Carranza's ueu
'4
M
CvVtvU ".Wants"' Work Wonders
4 N
Une, born In Germany, who refused
(
I
