A SON OFTHE SOIL
Frank B. Kellogg Graduated from the
Farm and the Hard School
of Exeprience.
Of Him It Can be Truly Said He
is a Self-Made and Self-
Educated Man.
Rochester, Minn., April 10.Every
red blooded man likes a winner, espe
cially when the winner has had to
make a hard and long fight against
odds.
Few men have had more obstacles
to overcome or have achieved greater
fame than our former fellow towns
man, Frank B. Kellogg.
THE OFFICE SEEKS THE MAN.
Rochester swelled with pride when
it learned that more than 125 repre
sentative country editors had signed a
petition or written Mr. Kellogg to be
come a candidate for United States
senator. It was one of those rare
events in modern timesa genuine
case of the office seeking the man.
Frank B. Kellogg was raised on a
farm in Viola township near this city.
His boyhood was similar to that of
thousands of other farmers' boys. It
was a life of hard work, many sacri
fices and few pleasures, attending
country school in the winter and do
ing the usual farm work after school.
NEIGHBORS BELIEVE IN HIM.
His old neighbors say that he is stijl
the same, every-day sort of a man and
that his manner is democratic and cor
dial to all.
In 1875 he began to study law in the
office of H. A. Eckholdt of this city
During the winter he took care of a
farmer's horses and cows_ for his
"4"
FRANK B. KELLOGG
board and in the spring he went back
to the farm and worked through seed
ing time for $13 per month. He also
went out during harvest and worked
in the field.
He served five years as county at
torney of Olmsted county. One of his
first important cases was when he
represented the villages of Plainview
and Elgin, in Wabasha county, against
the Winona and St. Peter Railroad
company and recovered from the rail
road about $200,000 for these villages
on bonds which had been illegally
taken by the railroad and sold on the
market. This case was brought to
Mr Kellogg after other lawyers had
lost it for the villages of Plainview
and Elgin, and made many friends for
him in Southern Minnesota.
In 1SS7 Senator Cushman K. Davis
made him a partner with himself and
C. A. Severance.
ROOSEVELT CALLS KELLOGG.
In 1906 President Roosevelt was at
tracted to Kellogg because of the lat
ter's conspicuous success in private
practice. In consequence he put Mr
Kellogg in charge of the most impor
tant trust prosecutions ever tried,
among them being the paper trust,
lie Standard Oil company and the
merger of the Union Pacific and South
ern Pacific railroads. All were car
ried to the supreme court of the
United States and all were decided
in favor of the public.
WINS GREAT LEGAL DUELS.
His brilliant cross-examination of
the wizards of Wall street, as well as
his legal duel with the great corpo
ration lawyers of the East, won for
him the approval of the public and at
the same time the bitter enmity of
the financial giants.
FOUGHT FOR FARMERS.
As member of the resolutions com
mittee of the Republican national con
vention he championed some impor
tant labor planks He vigorously op
posed the reciprocity bill and the
Payne-Aldnch tariff bill before con
gress, in so far as they discriminated
against the farmers of the Northwest.
SETTLED RAILROAD STRIKE.
In 1908 President Roosevelt sent
for Mr. Kellogg and asked him to pre
vent a wage reduction on the Chicago
Great Western, for which road Mr.
Kellogg was general counsel.
With characteristic energy Mr. Kel
logg applied himself to the task and
S was soon able to ha\e the order re
ducing the trainmen's wages set aside
a great victory for She trainmen.
A REPUBLICAN.
In politics Frank B. Kellogg has al-
e'fa$
Minn. Historical Society
ways stood with the progressive winr
of the Republican party, but he did
not go so far as to leave that party
four years ago.
It is freely predicted here that he
will receive a larger vote for United
States senator than all other candi
dates put together.
HEADS AMERICAN BAR.
In 1912 the American Bar associa
tion elected him president in recogni
tion of his eminent legal ability.
Village and Town Elections.
Experience has demonstrated that
the only fair and correct way of vot-'
ing at any election is under the Aus
tralian ballot system, same as at the
general election in even-numbered
years. Right now, when the short-com
ings of the old antidcluvian system of
voting is fresh in the minds of the vot
ers on account of recent township and
village elections, is a good time for
town and village boards to take ad
vantage of chapter 315 session laws
of 1915, and provide by resolution for
the Australian system at town and
village elections hereafter.
The chapter in question provides
that, "The village council of any vil
lage or the town board of any town
ship in the state may by resolution
or ordinance, at least thirty days be
fore the date of any election for vil
lage or township officers to be held
therein, resolve or ordain that all elec
tions of township or village officers
in said village or township, shall be
held or conducted under the so-called
'Australian Ballot System,' until
otherwise determined by ordinance or
resolution by said village council or
town board, and after the adoption of
such resolution or ordinance all elec
tions of village or township officers in
said village or township shall thereaf
ter be held or conducted under said
'Australian Ballot System/ as provid
ed by law for general elections in this
state, as far as practicable."
Section 2 provides that candidates
for such offices shall file an affidavit
at least one week before election with
the village recorder or the town clerk,
as the case may be, paying to such
officer a fee of one dollar.
Then it is made the duty of the
recorder or clerk to have the ballots
printed and a sample ballot posted at
the place of election at least two days
before such election.
Briefly stated, all that is necessary
for any candidate for a town or vil
lage office to do is to file his affidavit
and pay his dollar and his name goes
on the official ballot without any party
designation and the voters do the rest.
The resolution or ordinance provid
ing for the 'Australian Ballot System*
can be adopted at any time up to
within thirty days of election, and if
after a trial the system is unsatisfac
tory the resolution or ordinance can
be rescinded by the town board or
village council.
Of Local Application.
In every community where a move
ment is made for public benefit, there
you will find a few "back-biters" who
never do and never will do anything
for the public benefit themselves, who
sit back and croak, charging the
pushers with having ulterior selfish
motives who are trying to advance
their own business or political ends.
But if the world had stopped to listen
to the "croakers," there would have
been no advancement in the past, and
the town or community that stops to
listen to their disgruntled tales in this
day and generation will be found lag
ging way behind in the procession.
Pick out the men who are always
"kicking" about movements for com
munity advancement and public bene
fit, and you will invariably find that
they are men who never did anything
for anybody unless they got well paid
for it in dollars and cents, and that
they are wholly devoid of public en
terprise.Browns Valley Tribune.
His Promise.
A Mobile man who was continually
hard up had so many notes at the
bank he could not leave town except
on Sundays and holidays. He had a
note falling due every banking day.
He dropped into a bank one day and
spoke genially to the president.
"I came in to fix up that little mat
ter of mine," he said, "I'd like to
renew it for a time."
The bank president had the note on
his desk. He picked it up and studied
it carefully. "Jim," he finally said, "I
don't think this note is made out
properly."
"Why not?" asked the alarmed
borrower.
"It reads: 'I promise to pay'not 'I
promise to renew.' "Saturday Even
ing Post
R. C. DUNN, Publisher. Terms, $1.00 Per Year. PRINCETON, MILLE LACS COUNTY, MINNESOTA, THURSDAY, APRIL 13, 1916 Ten Pages
COUNTY DADS MEET
Road Money for 1916 Divided Accord-
ing to Valuation Among the Five
Commissioner Districts.
Joint School Petition RejectedRoad
Work for 1916 DiscussedNext
Meeting May 16th.
The board of county commissioners
met at the office of the county auditor
Tuesday. All members were present,
and Chairman Cater presided.
An application for abatement of
taxes on lands in the town of South
Harbor was presented to the board
and the matter was satisfactorily ad
justed.
A petition was presented to the
commissioners, signed by numerous
residents of Onamia, asking that Mrs.
Victor Sjodin be allowed county aid in
the sum of $35 per month, instead of
$20, which she is now receiving. Mrs.
Sjodin became a widow over a year
ago and has seven children to care for,
ranging in age from a few months to
thirteen years. The commissioners
took no action in the matter, as they
deemed it a proper case to come un
der the provisions of the Mothers*
Pension act.
The joint school petition asking for
the formation of a new district out of
territory in the town of Hayland, this
county, and the adjoining town of Ka
nabec, Kanabec county, came on for
final hearing and same was rejected.
Freeholders of two school districts in
Kanabec county affected by the peti
tion appeared before the board and
went on record as being opposed to
favorable action in the matter, as did
freeholders of district 25, this county,
and no one appeared in support of the
petition.
A resolution was adopted instruct
ing the county auditor to notify Coun
ty Surveyor Chapman to begin work
on the various statutory re-surveys of
sections on or before May 1, 1916.
The 1916 road and bridge money
was divided among the five commis
sioner districts, according to valua
tion. Hereunder appear the amounts
apportioned the districts:
District No. 1 $4,727.62
District No. 2 2,107.17
District No. 3 5,240.91
District No. 4 7,807.34
District No. 5 7,240.02
A petition asking for the re-survey
of section 4, town of Page, was pre
sented to the board, and same was laid
over for further consideration.
Engineer Cleveland was present at
the meeting, and road work for 1916
was informally discussed. Mainten
ance work for the coming year was
also outlined.
After acting on the usual grist of
bills the board adjourned. The next
meeting will be held on Tuesday, May
16, 1916.
Show the Right Spirit.
Princeton is not a large place, has
probably less than 2,000 inhabitants,
but if its citizens, especially the busi
ness men, pulled together much good
might be accomplished and the vil
lage would continue to at least hold
its own.
If the factional spirit, which has
recently manifested itself in a virulent
form, continues to grow it requires no
prophet to foretell the result.
Get together relegate the strife
breeders to the rear improve the
streets give the farmers a square
deal and make Princeton a pleasant
and profitable place for them to sell
their produce and do their trading, and
our village will continue to grow and
prosper.
Darwin and This War.
In his famous journal Darwin shows
that' he was impressed as much by
the moral aspects of an earthquake
as by the physical details which he
was studying:
"A bad earthquake at once destroys
our oldest associations the earth, the
very emblem of solidity, has moved
beneath our feet, like a thin crust
over a fluid one second of time has
created in the mind a strange idea of
insecurity."
Are not the minds of many of us
exactly like that just now? And yet,
with all the destruction of what we
had been accustomed to, withall the
dreadful novelty, one traveling in
Europe finds less sorrow than he ex
pects. The loss of home is taken more
easily than we should think. Darwin
explains it:
"It was, however, extremely inter
esting to observe how much more
active and cheerful all appeared than
could have been expected. It was
remarked with much truth that, from
the destruction being universal no one
individual was humbled more than an
other, or could suspect his friends of
coldnessthat most grevious result
of loss of wealth."
Even when death is in question the
knowledge that all are losing brings
a surprising calm. How much more
bearable destiny would be if we could
apply this principle in times of
peace,using the ultimate certainty
of death to blunt the arrows that
hurt so much more than they would
if our imaginations were more bended
to the universal.Harper's Weekly.
Mayor Newbert Plans Improvements.
Mayor Newbert plans to make his
residence corner a place of beauty,
and a credit to the village. Last fall
N. N. Oslund, of the Cambridge nur
sery, an experienced landscape de
signer, inspected Mr. Newbert's prop
erty and planned alterations that will
materially improve the appearance of
same. He recommended the removal
of several trees, and the first of this
week they were taken down. In a
short time trees and shrubbery will be
put in according to blue print speci
fications designed by Mr. Oslund, and
when the work is completed Mayor
Newbert's place will present a pleas
ing view. A new sidewalk and curbing
will also be constructed on the east
side of the property.
Firemen's Annual Easter Ball.
The 12th annual Easter ball of the
Princeton Fire department will be
given at the Armory on Monday even
ing, April 24, and it promises to be
an enjoyable event. Cason Bros, cele
brated colored orchestra of Minneapo
lis has been secured and the latest pop
ular dance selections will be discours
ed in a pleasing manner. .Special num
bers will be given between dances by
members of the orchestra, who are en
tertainers of more than ordinary abil
ity. Lemonade will be served at the
Armory, and the Home restaurant will
serve the supper. The fire laddies al
ways put on pleasing dances, and their
past reputation assures them of a
large and joyous throng upon this oc
casion.
Commercial Club Meets.
The Commercial Club met at Allen's
hall Friday evening to hear the report
of the committee of threeMessrs.
E. K. Evens, S. S. Petterson and A. E.
Allennamed at a previous meeting
to ascertain the cost of fitting up club
rooms. The committee estimated the
cost at from $600 to $800, and E. K.
Evens was named a committee of one
to ascertain if sufficient funds to start
with could be secured. Also if our
business rrfen would pledge themselves
to pay annual dues sufficient to main
tain the club rooms. The cost after
the club rooms are equipped is no
small item, and it is doubtful if any
thing is done in the matter.
Students Return.
Carl Wicktor, Myron Wallace and
Reuben Swenson returned the latter
part of last week from Kansas City,
Mo., where they are students at a
veterinary college, and will pass their
summer vacation in this vicinity. The
latter is again employed in the store
of the C. A. Jack Drug Co. Two
other Princeton young men who are
preparing themselves for veterinary
surgeonsMyron Walker and Vernon
Kaliheralso returned from Chicago
last week, where they are enrolled at
the McKillip college. All are bright
young men and upon completion of
their studies should meet with success
in their chosen profession.
G. A. R. Golden Jubilee.
The 50th anniversary of the or
ganization of the Grand Army of the
Republic will be appropriately observ
ed by the local post at the Princeton
Armory next Thursday evening, April
20, and a cordial invitation is extended
to the general public to attend and
participate in the golden jubilee. A
public installation of officers will be
one of the features, and interesting
talks will be given. A pleasing musi
cal program will also be carried out.
The old boys in blue are entitled to the
hearty co-operation of all to make the
occasion a memorable one.
Special Duties of Road Overseers.
Several of the Union's correspon
dents refer to washouts on roads. No
matter whether it is a town, county or
state road it is "the duty of the road
overseer of the district in which the
damaged road is located to immediate
ly repair the same, and render his ac
count therefor to the town board, in
case of a town or county road, and to
the county board in case of a state
road. The intent of the law is to get
prompt action, when a road becomes
obstructed or unsafe from any cause.
DEFECTIVE PAGE
THE WEEJTS DEATHS
Charles E. Wedgewood, Respected
Princeton Resident, Answers
Summons Sunday.
J. Frank Quinlan, Civil War Veteran,
Passes Away at Home of His
Son in Greenbush.
It is with sincere regret that we
chronicle the passing of Charles E.
Wedgewood, which occurred at the
Northwestern hospital Sunday noon,
following an operation for appendici
tis. Mr. Wedgewood was taken sick
with an acute attack of appendicitis a
couple of weeks ago, and the appen
dix burst before the surgeon's knife
was used. His condition was extreme
ly serious from the outset inflamma
tion of the bowels set in, and a large
quantity of pus gathered in the ab
domen. He made a brave struggle for
life however, and hope was not aban
doned until the morning of the day
that he breathed his last. His nu
merous friends in the village hoped to
the last that under the skillful care
of Dr. Cooney recovery would be ef
fected, but it was willed otherwise.
Brief and simple funeral services
were conducted from the family resi
dence Tuesday afternoon at 2 o'clock,
and numerous residents of the village
attended to pay a last tribute of re
spect to the memory of an esteemed
friend and neighbor. Rev. E. B. Ser
vice delivered the funeral sermon, and
a quartet composed of Mesdames C. A.
Caley and E. B. Service and Messrs.
Guy Ewing and Grover Umbehocker
sang some touching selections. The
floral tributes were exceptionally fine,
and the casket was covered and sur
rounded by beautiful flowers. Inter
ment was in Oak Knoll cemetery.
Charles E. Wedgewood was born in
Livonia, Sherburne county, Sept. 24,
1870, so at the time of his death he
was 45 years, six months and 16 days
old. He accompanied his parents to
Princeton at the age of ten years, and
grew to manhood here. Aside from a
year passed in the west three years
ago this place has since been his home.
Deceased was of an unassuming dis
position, but was held in the highest
regard by those who formed his ac
quaintance, and his likeable personal
ity won him a large circle of friends.
He is survived by his aged mother,
Mrs. Viola A. Wedgewood, and three
sisters, viz: Mrs. Frank E. Patterson
and Mrs. G. I. Nickerson of Seattle,
Washington, and Mrs. Lillian Van Al
stein of Princeton.
Mrs. Wedgewood and Mrs. Van Al
stein, mother and sister of deceased,
desire to express their heartfelt
thanks to all who extended sympathy
and aid to them during their hour of
sorrow, and especially are they appre
ciative to those who contributed the
beautiful floral tributes.
J. Frank Quinlan.
J. Frank Quinlan joined the great
majority at the home of his son, Ed
ward, in Greenbush Friday morning,
at the advanced age of 83 years, 3
months and 10 days. Disease of the
liver caused death.
Funeral services were conducted at
St. Edward's Catholic church in this
village Monday morning at 10 o'clock,
by Rev. Fr. Willenbrink. Interment
was in the Catholic cemetery.
J. Frank Quinlan was born at Hali
fax, Nova Scotia, December 28, 1832.
He was united in marriage to Miss
Mary Jane Thomas at Loretta, Penn
sylvania, on April 3, 1866, and they
rounded out a half a century of wed
ded life on April 3, last. The occa
sion was appropriately observed.
Mr. and Mrs. Quinlan came to Min
nesota the year of their marriage, and
both taught school in Rice county for
a time. In 1867 the subject of this
sketch was elected superintendent of
schools of Le Seuer county. He
proved a capable and popular official,
and two years later was chosen county
auditor, holding that position four
years. In 1873 he was elected register
of deeds, serving one term, and held
various other offices of public trust.
During President Cleveland's first ad
ministration he served as postmaster
of Le Seuer Center. Mr. and Mrs.
Quinlan came to Princeton four years
ago, and resided in this village three
years, having lived with their son in
Greenbush since that time.
Mr. Quinlan was a good citizen, and
served with honor and credit in the
Civil war, being connected with Gen
eral McPherson's staff for some time.
He was wounded at the battle of At
lanta, and his horse was shot under
him upon that occasion. During his
comparatively brief residence in this
\sl
VOLUME XL. NO. 17
vicinity hiiTpTeaT3air#*ways and upright
manner earned him the respect and
esteem of all who formed his acquain
tance. The widow and son survive.
Victim of Fatal Accident.
Rev. David Holmgren, formerly
pastor of the Unitarian church in Dal
bo, Isanti county, was killed by a run
away horse Tuesday afternoon in Min
neapolis, half a block west of the
Washington Avenue bridge. Mr. Holm
gren was walking slowly, reading a
newspaper, when struck from behind
by the horse. A broken shaft pierc
ing the side of the animal was respon
sible for the deplorable accident.
Rev. Holmgren was well known in
Isanti county, where he had two court
cases arising over his pastorship of
the Dalbo church. Upon the first oc
casion he was arrested upon complaint
of the trustees for breaking into the
church, and conducting services. Form
er Governor John Lind appeared for
Mr. Holmgren and the case was dis
missed. Some time thereafter Rev.
Holmgren instituted action for dam
ages against the church trustees, bas
ing his claim upon his previous arrest,
but the jury declined to bring in a ver
dict favorable to him.
The following brief outline of Rev.
Holmgren's career is taken from the
Minneapolis Tribune:
Mr. Holmgren was widely known in
America and the Scandinavian coun
tries as a powerful writer and lecturer
on politics, religion and social sub
jects. While pastor of a state Luther
an church in Varnhem, Vestern Got
land, Sweden, he represented his dis
trict in the lower house of the Swedish,
congress for 15 years. He espoused
the cause of the radicals and had an
active share in many socialistic re
forms.
His liberal views on theology and
political issues led him into a clash
with the government which caused
him to leave the country for the
United States, in 1903, according to
Minneapolis friends. He had been a
clergyman in Sweden for 30 years.
He delivered lectures on temperance
and religious topics in the Swedish
tongue in Scandinavian settlements in
Pennsylvania and New York and came
to Minneapolis about six years ago.
For two years he occupied a pulpit at.
Dalbo, a small town in Isanti county,
once a month.
He was pastor of First Scandinavian
Unitarian church, which has held serv
ices at Pillsbury house, since 1912.
Most of his time recently had been
taken up with writing treatises and
controversial essays. For a time he
contributed articles to the Forskaren,
a Socialistic review, formerly publish
ed in Minneapolis.
He leaves two sons, David and
Knute, physicians in Bear Creek,
Montana. The widow was notified at
the home of her sons, where she is
isiting.
The Emporia Secret.
There is only one way to minimize
the work of the knocker, and that is
to snub him. Knockers, like all men of
misery, love company, and the most
lonesome thing on earth is a knocker
with no one to knock to. A knocker
is harmless in himself, but he is a
breeder of more knockers. Snub him
to death cut him cold, and he will
cease to knock, from sheer lonesome
ness. A knocker must tell his trou
bles, or there is no fun in knocking.
The reason Emporia as a town pros
pers, and is the best town of 10,000
people in the world, is that the knoek
er has to weep on his own bosom.
When a man has to sob into his own
ear, he quits sobbing. That is the
Emporia secret.Emporia, Kansas,
Gazette.
To Improve Baseball Diamond.
Directors Morton, Cravens and Os
terberg and Manager "Pongo" Olson,
of the ball team, hiked out to the fair
grounds Sunday morning and inspect
ed the diamond. Considerable work
in the way of improvements on same
will be done this spring. A strip of
several feet back of the base lines
will be divested of sod, and the dia
mond smoothened and levelled. Grav
el will be used for filling in. Prac
tice will start in a couple of weeks
and the season will open shortly
thereafter.
Curfew Ordinance Now Effective.
The ordinance establishing a nine
o'clock curfew for children in this vil
lage under the age of 16 years appears
elsewhere in this issue, and the cur
few is now effective. Violators of its
provisions will be punished by a fine
of not less than $2 or more than $25,
or imprisonment until such fine be
paid, not to exceed 25 days. Marshal
Wilkes will see to it that offenders
are brought to justice, and its provis
ions will be strictly enforced.
