9 a " ' t -Who i vv
p r
+ yfs y . ' 1 %xe'a: J .4r1
NAIONMS VICTORS
IN SEASON'S FIRST
GAME-SCORE, 3 TO2
20,000 Fans See Walter Johnson Pitch Way
to Long End of Score Against Yankees
in Eleven-Inning Contest.
'SLIM' CALDWELL BATTED HARD
Gothamites Not Particularly Pleased to See $250,000 Added
Talent Swept Off of Feet-Ray Morgan
a Bright Star.
By WILLIAM PEET.
New York, April 12.-Twenty thousand frenzied baseball bugs
watched the rejuvenated New York Yankees open the championship
season and go down to a 3 to 2 defeat, after eleven innings of bitter
diamond warfare, this afternoon.
It was a sad blow to New Yorkers, for in the big city everybody
wants a winner and the experts figured that after the club owners paid
out $250,000 for new talent, Bill Donovan, the smiling manager, would
set the pace from the start.
Griffith's prediction of grabbing the opener went through to form.
The much advertised pitching battle between Ray Caldwell and Walter
Johnson resulted in the complete downfall of "Slim" Caldwell, who
was batted much harder than the score shows.
Johnsen Deserved Shut-out.
Walter Johnson deserved a shut-out-for N Y TRIBU NE
that's the kind of ball he pitched. The * *
five hits credited New York. three of O UT FOR T R
them bunched in the seventh Inning. were e. e
with the exception of a couple of healthy
wallops hot off Baker's bat. very much
of the scratch varlety. Stanch Republican Organ An
Johnson fanned ten batters. did not is- f of Co
sue a base on balls and was backed up nounces Su r O 0
by flawless support. While you ha'e got net Editoriall.
to hand it to Johnson for his share in '
the big doings. It was Ray Morgan who
really made the victory possible, for Mor- FOR HIM BECAUSE THE
gan drove in the run during the seventh "COUNTRY NEEDS HIn"
which kept the Nationals in the game,
and delivered a single In the eleventh
which brought home the bacon. ,Further Is Stated "No One Else Per
Clyde Milan also has a whole lot to soniies the Issue the Republican
say about the opening win. To the amaze- P a M take as He mss
ment of the big crowd Milan. in the arty ,st ka D
first inning, after two had perished, lifted
the ball into the right feld stands for Becial to The Washington Hamid.
a clean home run . New York, Aril 13.-The Tribune this
I evening editortafly uniopu g, 't
of Col. Roosevelt for the Republican
Ray Caldwell found himself in a num- nomination. The editorial says in part:
ber of tight places. A Less experienced .'We are for Col. Roosevelt because
twirler would have blown up before the we believe the country needs him. No
game was five innings old, and while one else will quicken the pulse of thie
C'aldwell was batted for ten hits, he used nation as he will quicken it. No one else
rare judgment on numerous 'occasions will stir the conscience of the people as
and it looked as if the game would be he will stir it. No one else will inspire
called on account of darkness patriotism as he will inspire it.
Washington's fielding was clean cut. "No one else personifies the issue
Jamieson and Shanks maling sensational which the Republican party must make
running catches. Uttle Gilhooley robbed as he personifies it. No one else presents
Jamieson of a hit in the eighth inning. so effective an antithesis to Wilson as
grabbing a low liner at his shoe-tops, he. If we are Americans, real Amer
'aldwell started badly by walking cans, the Colonel Is our man. While
.Morgan. the first National to face him, timid politicians were consulting the
but when Eddie Foster hit into a double census books and counting the German
play,. the fans breathed easier. It was vote he spoke and the country hearkened.
at this stage that Milan took a lot of ,He Il the leader In the fight for Ameri
starch out of Big Caldwell by thumping canism and we don't believe in chang
the ball into the right field pavilion and ing leaders when we are going to the
trotting around the bases. Needless to front.
say there was no wild outburst of en- "We are for Col. Roosevelt In spite
thustasm by the Gotham crowd, only a of the fact that we were against him
s.-ries of groans. four years ago, No one fought him
The Na'onals filled the bases in the harder than we. No one will tight harder
second inning after two were out, but for him. It has not been easy to put
Morgan's best was a pop fly to Peckin- aside our pride, our sense of resentment
paugh. at what curred In
"Rippy" Williams Doubles. other things that tend to keep alive
Two were down in Washington's fourth divisions. But we have put them aside
when "nippy" Williams tore off a lusty and are putting them aside because we
double to left field. McBride ended the fee that they have no place in a crisis
chapter by hoisting to Gilhooley. like this. We come opt for Col Roose
Captain Mac atoned for this when the , velt as a Republican newspaper. Intend
Griffmen opened the seventh by slashing ing to remain Republican, and we feel
the ball past Baker for a double. John- that In doing so we are doing the best
son's bunt put McBride on third base, thing not only for the nation, but for
from whence he score.d on flay Morgan's the Republican party."
nifty single to left (entero
The other half of the chapter was New Ze efia s Cause
York's big inning and the fans went wild
when the Yankees tied the score. Until! ader
the seventh, but two hith had beenh e
obtained off Johnson. only twenty men
facing tro and not a Yankee reaching terling thatrt Many Kt ie
second base.are ui h db s
CNTINIW ON PAGE TEN Last Raids Over
f eae W h aN Vt h y h a e n E n g l a n d .
sxty Per Cent Traveling on T. (Byv lesnatieual News Saerin
In Berlin, via wireless, April if.
Londn. Arill~. hig naal ofica daag renste frmte doigth est
statd toay tat narlyS pe ce t ing raot onl forland, nactiong tfor
fromwohenc ahe cilredn ay thorge's d eprstoteOvrSa
When other huanoitea e was .IwN-ew floig
York-ds5bighildreg andished fan ten- ildsios eunigfom
whn wmeane t0idrn ettirldsathtdig the lscore.ppntin
lives seigen buwoe hatnd beiden r Exs tensivma e wL oe se
obtihed ofn Jhnson, ndy twent men l i et, uL Sn~ra
onth al-, ecat England.
Playderi C e Tra -e~atolmTer- h aloa tto ashtb n
Rueote kingeofslierolar coute. cnlr bms h Tn e
ftateds toda issitohatvr er cuen of rNwatews lotetr
the i boead chlen adoardn ah ar-e tre. AtGibyhe anek
Wen rohPeLsietnilwsnk. ic womea-wedvsadan svrlhur
rnd m fcm hden eritu d.y te ne- slir eebre ne h un
live s.gt enwomen ad ated bylde
peeresevon the erej and to women .e ~I~sue
on theetwi bFalabta. e b
Contreiin esi# Arested._
hl adelpia Apr'i~l 12.-Bartholomeiw351
flewtrs wo-i adtohv iruae
ed him ftnte etcy et Pnt
Tuib Lift Fi -~n
spisi is nae Ws mid. i.
Madison, Wis., April u.
Scandal travels znoo yards per
second, according toPsof. Ben
jamin Snow, head t te Uni
versity of Wisconsin yisies de
partmeut.
Prof. Snow bases hb cakula
tions upon observatios made
around the university.
Flattery has the second great
speed, according to the professor,
traveling from 400 to 'Soo lards
in the same time. Truth, how
ever, he declared, was slowest of
all, moving only about two and a
half yards per second.
He said his computations were
based on the speed of the sound
of an alarm clock, which is zero.
U. S. TO SEND
ANOTHER NOTE
Wilson Decides to Transmit
Final Communication to
Kaiser on Sub Crisis.
KAY ASK BERLIN TO PLEDGE
PROTECTION TO FREIGHTERS
President Will Cite Accumulative In
stances of Breaches of Faith on
Part of Teutons.
President Wilson has at last, made up
his mind as to the course of action he
will pursue in dealing with the latest de
velopments of the submarine crisis with
Germany. He will write another note to
the Berlin foreign office. The note-or
communication as it is officially called
is already in the course of preparation
and will probably be in polished tonn by
Sunday evening. Diplomats regard the
crisis as already over.
The President's decision became known
shortly after a sAm"mary of the communi
catkon which the German foreign office
handed to Ambassador Getard, in r.
spoeM to. bjlisideta -
en the latest eases of submarine attack
leopardising Americans, was cabled from
Berlin.
Berlin's statement that a German sub
marine commander torpedoed a steam
ship near the place where the Sussex was
damaged has led to the belief that Ger
many may later admit torpedoing this
vessel In case the 'nlted States is able
to prove it irrefutably.
Meanwhile Germany's statement that
the drawing of the captain made of the
torpedoed ship did not look like photo
graphs of the Sussex. appears to officials
here as weak evidence for Berlin to rest
Its official disclaimer upon. The inci
dent may be touched upon in the Presi
dent's note along with accumulative in
stances of renewed submarine attacks
which disregard the high moral princi
ples of humanity for which the Presi
dent, it is explained, is contending.
Interest last night centered on the
probable form the President's note will
take. There are many inspired conjec
tures, but diplomats regard the expla
nation which comes from German quar
ters as the only logical one to anticipate.
Calls Herself
Wife of Thaw
St. Louis Woman Brings Suit
for Divorce Against
White's Slayer.
Sredal to The Washingtoe Herald.
St. Louls. Mo., April I-Declaring that
she was married to Harry K. Thaw. In
Buffalo, October 6, 1902, and lived with
him until December, 1960, Christina
Thaw, of St. Louis, filed suit for di
vorce in the circuit court here today,
asking maintenance and the custody of
their 12-year-old daughter, Lady Gwen
dolyn Clemmens.
V. R. C. Lacy is her attorney, and he
refuses to tell where she is to be found.
He says she is supporting herself by her
own efforts. He says Thaw married
her under the name of Harry Kendall
Thaw Ciemmnens, and that Thaw's
mother and sister came to St. Louis In
January, 1904. to see the baby, which is
said in have been born here a luonth
after the couple separated.
Evelyn Nesbit Thaw, here, says she
never heard of the wman.
Dritish to Use All Resources.
London. April 13.--The vast re
sources of the entire British Empire
are to be put in the field on the side
of the allies, Andrew Bonar Law,
secretary of state for the golonies, an
nomned in Parliament today that
"steps are already being taken to
bring the whole sength of the em
pire to co-operation with the allies.,
ausbea, K. s.. Apl l:-la atusa
en asrik er muir tha 1Msi ma
,. I.
Prisoie : Con.e: to, Con
spiracy-to Wreck Vessels
Bound to Allied Ports
CAUSED MANY BLAZES
One Man Held Cousin of Late
Prince Bismarck-Von
Papen Mentioned.
BLOCKADE RUNNING IS EARED
Lubricating Oil Seant to Berlin Through
Neutral Countrie, Hidden in Ship
ments of Fertilizer.
(ly Iternatjesia News Senier.)
New York, April 2.-Four arrests were
made tonight by the local police In con
nection with the mysterious fires on ships
destined for ports of the allies.
One of the men arrested is Charles von
Kielet, aged 67, a retired German naval
captain, living at Hoboken. He is a
brother-in-law of Gen, von Kleisen, who
was killed four weeks ago at the front.
He 's a cousin of the late Prince Blis
marck.
Another prisoner Is Capt. Otto Wol
pert, 44. superintendent of the Atlas
Steamship Company's pier. He lives
in Bloomfield. N. J.
A third prisoner is Capt. Enno Bode,
49, superintendent of the Hamburg-Amer
Ican Lane docks in Hoboken. He lives in
Glen Ridge, N. Y.
The fourth is Ernest Becker, 32, an
electrician, on the interned German liner
Friedrich Der Grosse, lying at Hoboken.
Attempted Arms. Charged.
The men are charged with attempted
arson. The affidavit filed against
them charges them with "acting in
concert with each other and others
not arrested. In manufacturing fre
bombs and placing them in sugar
bags on board the steamship Kirkes
wald, of the Fabre Line, now the
French LIae, on or about May 2, 1914.'
The arefs are regarded by the po
h~uates "ess aBervieo
men as the most important since the
investigation of German propaganda
methods was started. The arrests
were followed almost immediately by
full confessions of two prisoners,
Becker and Von Kleist. Becker is
shown as the tool of the men higher
up. The name of Franz Von Papen,
the former German military attache
to the United States, is brought into
the case through a short statement
mad" by Capt. Wolpert.
The confessions indicated that plans
to blow up the allies' ships and been
put into operation in other ports than
New York. Every suspicious fire on
ships bound for allied ports is now
regarded as having been instigated by
men who worked in connection with
those involved in the confessions just
obtained.
Blockade Running Disclosed.
The investigation made by the police
also disclosed that agents of the Ger
mans have been running the blockade
for more than a year. It disclosed that
large shipments of lubricating oil had
made their way to Berlin through neu
tral ports in Denmark and Holiand. The
oil was buried in shipments of fertilser
sent from a plant known as the New 1r
sey Agriculture Chemical Company at
Hoboken. This place was also the fac
tory for the bombs that have caused the
fires on ships in New York Harbor. Beck
er has admitted that he made the outer
shells on board the steamship Frederich
Der Gross,
On June ' last. the Kirkoswald arrived
in Marseilles, France. Suspicious fires
had been discovered in the hold of the
ship. A mysterious looking bomb was
found. This was shipped to the State De
partment In Washington and in turn
forwarded to the New York police.
It was cylindrical in shape, about six
inches long and made almost entirely of
lead.
RICHARD WARDING DAVIS DIES.
Noted Novelist Victim of Heart
Disease.
(By International News Servier.)
New York, April l2.-Richard Harding
Davis. famous novelist and war corre
spondent, diedI of heart disease last night
at his borne in Mount Kisco. N. Y.,* but
news of hi's death was not given out until
Mr. Daivis, who recently returned from
Hurope, suffered an attack of 'ptomaine
poisoning two weeks ago and this brought
on an attack of heart d sease.
Mr. Davis' wife. Bessio McCoy, the sc
trees, was at th'e bedside of her husband
when he died.
The funeral will he held on Friday.
Tallra in Sleep; Loses Wife.
Paterson. N, J., April 12.-Though
asserting that he was saying "how
many" Instead of "Minnie, Minnie."
wrhile talking In his sleep, as his wife
charged In her divorce action, John J.
Ratchinson failed to prevent his wife
from obtaining her final decree.
Quarrymen Retura to Work.
Milford, N. H., April IL-Ive hundred
striking quarrymen retern~ed to work to
,,having accepted a 10 per ont in
Itsasases, with an wsesut whiek
-hsm ets alp, 1 -k g tn
1 pi1 WT in Dm1a.
El Paso, Tex., April t-Cy
anide of potassium, one of te
deadliest of poisons, was found in
many of the small streams in the
Sierra Madre when the Ameri
can forces first marched through
that section on the hunt for Pan
cho Villa and his bapdits.
Carcasses of dead animals had
also been dragged into many of
the water courses to contaminate
the supply.
This information was con
firmed today by a chemist who
accompanied the' American troops
on their expedition for the pur
pose of analyzing the water.
The cyanide of potassium was
found in one stream in such
amount as to have killed every
man in the expeition if the sol
diers had drunk of the water be
fore an analysis had been made.
In several other places traces
of the poison were located.
VILLA HEADED
FOR FORTRESS
Bandit Making for Natural
Defense Position at Guad
alupe y Calvo.
WILL WAIT THERE FOR
THE ARRIETTA BROTHERS
Rendezvous Believed Safe Retreat for
Quarry Until He Can Complete
Negotiations for Re-enforcements.
By H. H. STANSBURY.
(lnturnational News sane.a)
El Paso, Tex., April 1.-Francisco
Villa, best known to 1,000 tired United
States soldiers as the devil in human
flesh, who has outstripped them in a
chase of 300 miles, is at Guadalupe y
Calvo tonight. H- plan to proceed im
mediately to Durango City via Torreon
was changed at San Bernardo, a few
miles north of El Ore, on the ,esas
Rive: ^4'Y Tusday 'nrning.
- Wrters sent north from the Torreon
district by Canuto Reyes, carried infor
mation to Villa that the Arrietta broth
ers would not join forces with him with
out first having a thorough understand
ing. Villa an.l his men turned due west
ward over the trail which croses the
Chihuahua line at a small settlement
konwn as Sf. Julien.
Twenty-five miles west from this point
is Guadalupe y Calvo, located in one of
the strongest natural fortresses in south
western Chihuahua. It is a high plateau.
hidden among the mountain peaks and
not more than two men on horseback
can pass along the ledges at a time.
Villa and his men know this rendes
vous of old, and therefore, it Is believed.
they intend to remain until negotiations
with the Durango leaders can be com
pleted.
The American cavalry column, which
started south from Parral on Sunday,
penetrated Durango as far as Rosario.
There they were compelled to turn back
for supplies and scouts with knowledge
of the country into which they had been
rushing blindly for three days.
They are now on American-owned prop
erty just a few miles north of the C'hlhua
hua State line.
Henderson Case
Goes to Court
Jury Awards Miss Carmong
$75,000 Damages Before
Submitting Action.
(By Internatieal Nes Senioe.)
Bangor, Me., April 12.-The jury in the
breach of promise care of Miss Lona
Elizabeth Garmong against J. B. Hen
derson, Jr., of Washington, D. C., this
afternoon found for Miss Garmong in the
sum of $25,00 and the case goes now to
the law court to pass upon the question
of Henderson's liability, his guilt or in
nocence.
The jury today assessed the amount of
damages, the court to decide as to
whether Henderson is legally liable.
In a former trial, Miss Garmong re-,
eived a verdiot of mnore than P1080
against Henderson, who is the so. of a
former United etes- -enator. but the
verdict was set aside by the law court.
In a telegram to hIs mother last night.
Henderson called the court's action a
victory.
"Pifte6" TaknR teWekMe
WIlmington, Del. April 13.-Ernest
Schiller, who held .ap the ateames Na
toppe, arrived here this afternoon
fromt New. York and was taken to the
workhouse, where physicians Me.
him medical attention, his feethaln
been frauen while aboard the 1
His case wril come before the gi~ad
fury AprQ 17,
1I.Jthe ==M ems a te~ maina
MERICO
WITHOfRA*M1
AMERICA'
Note Demanding E
cal Negotiatiom DupatdWto
Arredondo to Present
to Lansing.
MESSAGE DATED ATQUERETARO
Defacto Government Head Declares Pursuit
of Villa to Have Accomplihled Is Ob
ject, Making Further Presence-of
Troops Useless.
Dy the laternatheual News serlvse.
Querr, Mx., Apr 12.-lie dJfasb geammt of Mdse /
mnit sat a met b Wa gten t be d4samd b Seamriay Ln din
uamdig the wilh&awal of the Am..ea keeps frs eiass.
Ts ms was salt b Else Amd.de, Casaumma's repsmedbs in
Washigto wilh the fdewing imbeirans:
"Delver the feoiwig mee to Screary Lemag, s em g magene.
tiens fur a recirec L pasni'g of keeps and adhg for &scM b of
tenitruy .ccuid by Ameriam keeps in view of Via's party havkg bee.
duireed and evise feres having seleed ths. in sit of ls ban.
dis a few days after the eat at Ceah-"
sp4ewtal to 'Ie Wa .g Mereed.
El Paso, Tex., April 12.-Militia of some of the States, probably
those of the Southwest, will have to be summoned for Mexican duty
unless the United States army retires from Mexico, or secures the use
of the Mexican railroads for transporting all supplies, according to
information in military circles on the border today.
With the information received here today from the south that
Gen. Pershing's advance had proceeded south of Parral in its hunt
for Pancho Villa and his bandits, it was established ,p pends of
army men that im et istwaave detstre inia'slh'ort time or etire from
the fielnk The line of coum nication is strung cuat aww for almost 3
miles, over some of the most uncertain country on the contmnist, and
the small number of troops'in the expedition makes it impossible to
much longer maintain it in safety.
0 Mica iHewd Alive.
PLANS TO USES That Gen. Pershtsg take. bttde stock
in the circumstantial stres told by the
SEIZED SHIPS eby hs at. tivity in press
Ing his forces south after the .vieg
band last known to be in the company of
E. N. Breitung Would Finance Villa himself. The exact locatiom of there
troops was not given today, but a mes
$20,000,000 Deal to rare absolutely .athe.tic .a they were
Help o of ParralC Tos
herce. om e .m. source a. e.e yeaaay
which reported the command last seen
SUGGESTS LEASING ALL with Villa as fleeing for Guadalupe y
calvo.
VESSELS INTERNED HERE Caransa officials did not offer any oa.
frmatitn today of the death of VTIb. al
Declares He Represents No Belligerent though that the story was generally
credited smong the natives in Chihuahua
Government and Hopes Only to City. and southwest of there.
Supply Need for Bottoms. officially, they said, however. that the
Carransistaa like the American forces.
Sp'icil to ',.' W.thingto. Heraki, were taking no chances on the rport be
New York. April It-Edward N. Brei- Ing true, and were continuing their tam
tung, banker and copper producer. who pan.
purchased from the Hamburg-American Carrmmas to Send 4.000.
Steamship company the steamer Dacia. It was asserted that mere than 4
which during the first voyage was seised constituUonalst troops would come north
by the Fren, h. outlined today a plan for from the vicinity of Torren, Queretaro,
the utilization of all the interned Ger- and Aquas Calentea for immediate opera.
man. Austrian and English ships. Ife tion against Villa. It was admitted in Agoa
would have these ships released so that Prieto. opposite Douglas, Arta, today.
they can be used in the promotion of that Gen. Calus, (arranza cceandar of
trade between America and South Ameri- the state of Sonora, had ordered th
ca. and between this country and the forces now mobilized In Sonora, west of
Far East. the Chihuahua state line, to enter Chi.
Speaking about the plan today in his hiahua and Join in the pursuit of ia
ollice. he said that he and his associates These troops were mobilized ostessii,
were ready to finance a syndicate to for the purpose of preventng Villa en
take over the ships. His suggestion was tering Sonora from Chihuahua state.
to lease the sbips, for which anywhere Americans, particularly those of ez
from $i.000,000 to $i,000,000 would be re- citable dispositions, are much a..
quired. but he did not believe that Eng- cerned, and a considerable number of
land ever would consent to such as ar- army officers are in this class owe
rangelent End would insist If she agreed the movement of the Carranaitas
to the proposition at all, that the ships from Sonora Into what they call "the
be sold at auction. rear of the American expedltia..'
"I want It distinctly understood,'' said coupled with the Carraaa dedaratien
Mr. Breitung. "that I do not represent of large forces moving north tee,
any of the belligerent governments in. the interior. Many profes to believe
this maatter, It is simply a suggestionththec plte ofhi re
rmade, because of the necessity that pre- mvmn ilh olwdb e
v-ails for ships, and because of ant unI- e~tl ead tdited a
official report emnating from Enagiand gvrmtfothwtdoulote
to'watakesortedinaternrd toana4e.
'"r, chmais ttopu te ohi stituins trop toul Jcome ort
tinir te &eetsm -- fr tat roml hevnit of Torrte. Qermearg
coud pt tor ung'theBrzilan r atsfo AquasCanes wor mmrediate o
th et Cinahai tyla Ito waadmtte nga
Portopt ha wngdlats., today,.
scrn11 5 1f5 eh Gend hais aran a omn. o
Ithe stathed Sonora.e hid oreeh
ed ailSoaonaa. sibaforend mobiltise a ns no et-o
eajonar ~~ ~~otdh Chihuahua itat or ine, Uto ner i.
ear. -pee tJusseCves. T ese tepa were moied. otenil
~ookpa.Ceda deded he ame or the purpohse of~ peting hilla e
anstoest Aeialy atiual hoeo x
"'the, w~aw e sec-tae dig~fspsiios. are muchtos ton
army4 officers ares in0 th slss toe
the movementu ofs the Carasa
the.X ~~ ineir-aypoest eiv
that the copeinofti r
