l&tiXQtt
POSTSCRIPT
EDITION
POSTSCRIPT
EDITION
lew
VOL. II. NO. 182
PHILADELPHIA, THURSDAY, APRIL 13, 191G.
ComianT, 1S10, bi Tna Pctuo Lidom Courixr.
PKIOB ONE OEHT
ill-Ill
p
-'..
f 1.
GERMAN CAPTAIN
CONFESSES VAST
BOMB PLOTTING
Hamburg-American M en
Implicated in Plot to Blow
Up or Burn Allies' Ships
BOY-ED AND PAPEN IN IT
An'ested Men Name Recalled
Attaches of German Embassy
as "Higher-Ups"
NEW YOnK. April IS.
Full confession of tho dctnllH of n
plot to Mow up ships carrying intinltlonn
to tlio Allies has been made by Captain
Charles von KIclst, retired Bca captain,
nntl ono of the four men nrrcrtcd last
night, the police announced today.'
Tho arrested men nre:
EHNHRT lincKnil. elect rlclnn nn frMrleh
iter Oriwso. nll by I'ollce to have confessed
mAKlne hundreds nf Irtmbc.
CAPTAIN CHAnr.KM VON' KI.RIST. retired
sen rnptnln of Oermnn birth, who hns con
fessed, pollen snv, that ho helped In manu
facture of explosive In fill tho Imnibn.
CAPTAIN OTTO WOH'KRT, uhlpner nf the
Frlfilrlcn tfcr Orosse, accused of hmlntt rc
(.etvotl rotnpletnl bombs.
CAPTAIN 1INNO ncmn, pier superintendent
of Hnmburir t.lne. nubsldlnry and nlleced Kn
hetween for bomb imikcra and Mmcn higher
up."
FItANZ VON IltNTi:t.EN. Indicted here on a
consplrncv ehnrtje
CAPTAIN KHAN. VON PAPEN.
CAPTAIN fAIII. IIOV-HO. reonlleil military
and naval attaches of the German Govern
ment. The Hamburg liner Krlcdrlch der Grosse
Interned at Hoboken was the alleged bomb
factory.
"Sweated" until daybreak today, von
Kllcst broke down and admitted that he
was superintendent of n factory In Uo
bokcn where bombs were made, the pollca
stated. Certain portions of his confes
sion aro being withheld. I'ollce Captain
Tunnoy believes lio Is now on the trail of
the man "higher up." nlleged to have acted
br Ro-betweon in dealings Captain Boy-Ed,
Captain voir. Papen anil a mysterious
"Captain Sternhurg" had with tho bomb
plotters.
".Lieutenant" Robert Fay, Indicted sev
eral wcoks ago on tho clinrgo of conspir
ing to blow up munition ships, furnished
tho pollco tho Information on which von
Idlest and his alleged fellow conspirators
wero arrested.
FRIEND OF BISMARCK.
Von KIclst was born In rommcrn.
Prussia, Ho told tho pollco that ho lived
within a block of the home of Bismarck,
and that his father was n personal friend
of the former German Chancellor.
Before tho war, von KIclst was In com
mand of tho frolghtor Haulloway, owned
by Church Brothers, of Tiffany. II. I.
Shortly after tho outbreak of tho war
ho met a man In Uobokcn. After learn
ing that ho was a German, and investi
gating his record, th stranger oflorcd
him a position as superintendent of a
factory nt Hoboken, which was to manu
facture fertilizer.
GERMAN DIPLOMATS INVOLVED.
At various times tho factory received
urns of money through a man named
Hansen, This man, according; to the po
lice, was tho ngent of von Papen, Boy
Ed and other German ofllclnls.
Later tho factory began manufacturing
bombs and a chemist was hired at J10.000
a year. The first bomb was placed aboard
the. Kirk Oswald, timed to cxplodo flvo
days nfter tho vessel loft port. When tho
bomb failed to go off "Captain Stornburg"
and others at tho factory attacked the
chemist In tho laboratory, alleging ho was
guilty of treachery. Tho chemist finally
convinced Sternburg that tho shell of tho
bomb was too thick and that tho acid
could not eat Its way through.
After tho arrest of Fay, Scholz, Max
Breltung and others, tho conspirators be
camo very cautious and finally closed tho
factory on April 1, Von Kleist was uuoted
aa saying.
BOMBS WEItE "TIMED."
The pollco say they found two boxes of
powder, two lead bombs and 12 aluminum
milk testers, which wcro'to bo used to
measure acid, In von Klelst's homo nt
1121 Garden street, Hoboken.
Tho bombs, nccordlng to Police Captain
Tunnoy, wero of chemical composition,
and would create a fierce heat on going
off. Ho4credlts many of tho fires on
Allied vessels at sea to them. o
TWO WIVES CONFRONT MAN
I
One Says He Threatened to Kill Her
if She Exposed Him
Two wives confronted Charles II. Do
Councell, 31 years old, of Columbia ave
nue above 31st street. In the night court,
last night The second wife testified that
Be Councell threatened to kill her If she
exposed him nfter ho had confessed to her
that he already had a wife.
De Councell's first marriage took place
on January 9, 1915, when he married Miss
Agnes McMenamln, of 1911 North 23d
street. They separated in four months.
On January 22, of this year, he married
Miss Hazel Blum, of 2321 Master, eloping
to Elkton, Md on tho advice of the girl's
mother. Magistrate Beaton held De
Councell fn 1800 ball for court.
THE WEATHER
The more wa study the weather, the
more fascinating, not to say fanciful, are
the facts which we are enabled to' unearth.
For example, we were standing in the
foyer of the Academy pulsating with
memories of Beethoven's Fifth, and asled
a friend. "Well, what did you think of
the Bymphony?" For reply hi grumbled,
'Why, I should say It meant continued
rain.'; Properly mystified, we asked what
that meant, concealing the fact that we
are a weather prophet by profession. He
explained that In damp or wet weather the
strings of the violins "swelled up as thick
as anchor chains" and produced tones of
no 'greater sweetness. We admitted that
we had always hated to be coaxed to per
form on anchor chains, as we had felt
they did not bring out our best musical
abilities, and passed on.
Notwithstanding which, the real que
tlon, la Its briefest form, is: "Can they
win again today?"
FORECAST
For Philadelphia and vicinity Un
settled and warmer, tonight, with
probably showers; Friday partly
cloudy; gentle variable winds.
For details see page 4.
JLOST AND FOUND
IjPft. IiMjKlaj il!f; April 11.
JMIevuu-Strutford ballroom and
. n Lrvitai dtamoBa and uDDhlm
mounted In platinum. -lUwurd U
u j c i.aiuwJi w tvwj wnesc-
HANUUAU Laal lady a lMiriMrimnilk- s rnn.
telolns wucli small poikilok vrttufS w
uard 0128 rheur at German town.
OUnr Loit und 1'uuod Ad 9a l'ate 19
PAR PIN
betweta
Ovrtrcjc
bar uto7J
returocdl
B Hjf t ,r-
A 4
BOMBS INTENDED
4 II
P?8 '1 L jt$fa? $sf Photo by Int Pllm Service
TABLES CLEARED
FOR 'SHOWDOWN'
ON U-BOAT ISSUE
Berlin's Reply to Latest
Protests to Bring Con
troversy to Head
ANSWER BEING FRAMED
The Berlin reply to the latest
American protests on its U-boat
policy is summarized as follows:
Germany admits having sunk a ves
sel something similar to the Sussex,
near where tho Sussex met disaster,
and on tho same day. But a,.skctch
drawn of tho vessel sunk by the sub
marine commander (whether before
or nfter the explosion is not told) is
so different in several particulars
from a photograph obtained of the
Sussex itself that Germany declares
it was not tho Sussex which the com
mander torpedoed. It believes the
Sussex hit a mine, and points out that
as many as 28 floatinR mines have
been destroyed by the Germans in
the Channel in one day. Tho vessel
sunk is claimed to have conducted it
selfylike a minelnycr.
IJ,crwindaIc: As soon as'sho.'su'hYed
tho submnrine, she put out her lights
and attempted Iocscape. Was fired
on, and after crew had loft ship, tor
pedoed Englishman Ordered to stop by
two warning shots, but tried to escape.
Was fired on; lowered own boats vol
untarily, and was then torpedoed af
tef the crew had been given time to
escape.
Manchester Engineer Has been im
possible, on tho evidence submitted by
tho United States, to determine if
this vessel was torpedoed.
Eagle Point Ordered by two shots
to halt, but fled. Thereupon was
fired upon until halted and, after
crew had taken to small boats, was
sunk.
WASHINGTON', April 13.
Tho tables aro now clear for the "Miow
drtwn" between the United States ami Gar
many on tho submarine' question. Dis
claiming icspon&ihltlty for the explosion
which wrecked tho Sussex, In the English
Channel, and declaring Itself guiltless nf
any violation of insurances to this Gov
ernment In Its hubmnrino attacks upon
four other vessels carrying Americans,
Germany, nevertheless. In its answer to
inquiries from Ambassador Gerard, has
made the expected p-opouil for further ne
gotiations Germany will bo afforded an oppoitu
nlty to rcframe and reissue pledges that
International law will be observed by her
submarine commanders. President Wil
son has sootaclded, and a formal com
munication, betting forth with a wealth
of detail what tho United .States regards
as Improper action by German U-boat of
ficers. Is now being drafted.
It will he considered and probably ap
proved at tomortow's Cabinet session, at
which time tho Getman reply claiming
privilege In tho sinking of various vessels
and denying responsibility for the disaster
Contlnuril on Vase llftern, Column One
SOTTOMARINO VITTMA
DTOA MINA ITALIANA
La Siluranto Austrlaca Saltata
in Aria" Mentre Aspettava
la Sua Preda
II SllnUtero itallano delta Marina, dice
un telegramma da. Itoma, ha confermato
uttlclalmento la notlzla die un sotto
marlno austriaco rlmase recentemeute
dlstrutto al largo di un porta Itallano
dell'Adrlatlco, notlzla che correva da qual
che glorno e che era stata data pol
dall'Agenzla Stafanl in un comunlcato
utllcloso. Si credo che 11 sottomarino urto'
control una mina.
II rappo'rto del generale Cadonia pub
bllcato leri sera dal Mtnhstero. della Guarra
dice che gli itallanl lianno conqulstato
una forte llnea dl trincae e 41 rldotto
auatrlache lie la zona dl Rtva, a precl
eaniente Mil grupjo dl montagne che si
stende a nord-ovett della cltta', tra la Val
dl Cancel a la valla del Karca. Quastrr
nuovo eucceso Itallano mostra che le
forze operantl della Val dl Ledro con
tinuing la loro metrfdlca. pffenslva Inteaa
ad uvvlluppare sempre plu' da vicino la
fortezza dl Jtlva, che e gla' clrcondata da
tre lat) d a cut e' Umasta la sola vulle
Jdelga
Tflnea, U
del Sarca come via dl comunlcazione e
ea, dl rltlrota per la guarnlglone. Le
altro strade sono o occuuate dagll itallanl
o botto 11 fuoco del loro cannunl
(Leggere. la ta, pagina altro e plu' det
tagllata notlzie Bulla guerra, la Itallano.;
FOR ALLIES' SHIPS
These nre the contrivances al
leged to hnvo been mndc by men
employed on German ships tied
up nt Hoboken, N. J. They con
tain nn aluminum partition which
certain chemicals cat through and
after a time cause an explosion.
CRYPTIC CROSS
HAD NO TERRORS
FOR HUNDREDS
Evening Ledger Readers
Divine Plot Against
Monte Crispen
NEW YORKER WINS FIRST
Keen Wilted Readers
Who Solved Cryptogram
rmsT piti.i:. smo.
J. n. I,. Iirj.VKGAN'. 15 llnsl 20th street,
Jcv VnrK I'lty.
sct'UMi pitizi:. s.o.
f. 13. I',ltSi:HSKIt. 351 Ilroad Street Sta
tlon. l'hll.i.lnlplila.
Tiuiti) piiii:, $s,
J. H. TRACY. Wjllcotc I'.i.
m:.t rivi: mimithins. sio iucii.
S W. IIAUAKAT. (1137 WushlnBton ac-
nuo. I'hlhult'lphln.
r. J. MtUCOY. Cnwil. Pa.
J. I.. I.AYION, l. 6 Hot 02. TolcroM.
JAMI.'S MpCAUTNIJY. .177 Ilro.id Street
A. it Hi'i:u:it,
iiiiitm l'liiiitr
PhlhtOclptila.
jii.ii.
12 Houtli 11th street.
I'lillndplphln
Ni;T 3.1 '(IM'TIONS, S', KU'lI.
OTTO A. J KKAL'UR. Krunkfor.l avenue.
JlnlmoBlturjr.
J. H. Kl.Mi, aL'33 Norlli lath street.
Pllttildi-tphln.
It. A. PltlfKirrT. 12tti nml Chestnut
Btrets. INitlititlithla
ritANK 11. riiUY, h03 Lafnyctto street.
Nnrrliiuwn. Ph
MARTIN . 1. POUTKU. 15 South Potoraio
s(ri. iwnimore.
ants, lusitTiiA. (,' MUOfin; narrlniton
sma.-ltOYT. Jfpflfifi Slitl'm, I'a."
'MHB, W.AUIIRIJY MKRKIC,;, New:
vtown,
i
JOSUPIt A. CAHRAIJIU. 733 NOftll HSth
strrt, J'hlhMlMjihln.
VT. It. (IHAKK. lmiKi Xortf; Colorado
strent. Phlladatphla.
NOR.MA.V J. HMITH. 4110 Wldener Ilulld-
Imt. I'hllHilolnhln.
It P. CONWAY. 3S,-i2
WlMsjthlekon. I'.i.
Tcrruco street,
K. 11 CAJIl'lli:!.!,, .100(1 Penn street,
1 rnnUfnrd
JAMHS ( TOWNHBNI), fiSO North aoth
street. Phil idelphls.
J1I3NJAMI.V .SIlto.Nt). L-J21 West Herh
atrc.it lli lliilplnhla.
jiinn i;iltt;i,
Phtlndulnhla.
THOMAS. City Hull,
V. M I)IORri. .'.Ill South Colorudo
stre t, Phlltulelphlii.
VICTOR r. l.KCOCJ. 123 rine, street.
llurrlahtirs. P.i
SCO IT II l.H.l.r. Snrthmnrc. Pa.
ARTIIt'lt HAMILTON. 1U1U North 57th
street. PhllH'lHtiihtu.
THIIR.MAN .MH.I.U, l.'il Hast Duval
street, (lermantdwn.
JOHN W. COWAN, 30 Tailor street.
Nexvitrk. N. J.
SINCLAIR T RORIIRTS, SOIL' Jarltson
street, Krunltford
(ii;oiu;l: t hcrns. y;L- North nuby
Hirtei, t un lariiiiiia.
LI'.ON A. PARKKIt. Ilerlln. N.
J.
i;i,KA.U!i in;. vim. Jl.i
streit. Phllnd'lnhlu.
North
16th
II J. U-IO.N'Ni:i.l.. U'l Kast G.iy street.
West Cheattr. I'.i.
DONAI.I) II Sl'ANUI.HR, 1. O. Ilox i'S'J.
Cynwyd Pn.
SHtH. J. II. 1T.TERS. 1117 JlarKet street.
HurrlaburK, I'n.
stani.uy i . noiillRTS. sn.-j stlllmsn
street. Philadelphia.
I.. l liooit I). OvKulh street and noroush
Hun, Nurrlstown. Pn.
HHRItKItT A. IIRAUKr. 2330 West Co-
lumblii n(riue. Phllldtdphla.
II II. 1IOOR.N, illih Poplar street, Phlla-
dehihta.
A. I.. 1IUZ1IY. 13U North street, Ambler.
I'a.
Baron Hoclimclster's evil mind proved
an open book to a host of Kvexino I.edoeu
readers. His machinations ngalnst Monte
Crlspeu would be deciphered long before
his hirelings could carry out his dastardly
attempts to ruin tho youthful millionaire
wero Monte to suriound himself with these
alert men and women.
Out of bcveral hundred solutions re
ceived In the contest to bolvo tho cryptic
cross which meant w much to Monte
Crispen, more than half were practically
coirect. Twelve persons soUed the cioss
completely, and each of 31 others made
only ono mistake. They were ballled by
the figures. Nearly 100 moro made only
two or three errors each, mid as many
more, although deciphering the meaning
of tho message, did not master all the
details.
Answers began coming to the Kvesino
I.epqeh tho day after the first advertise
ment announcing the publication of the
adventures of the Philadelphia hero ap
peared. Martin J. Porter, of Ualtlmore,
Md . bent a telegram the same evenlnc.
March 9, with a solution that was cor
rect as to tho figures. ICarly the next
afternoon. G. S. Wright, of 131 South 5th
street, this city, brought In an answer that
also fell short In the same detail.
Karly the next morning, March 11, J.
R. U. Henegau, of IS Kabt 29th street.
New York city, walked Into the Kvenino
I.EtxiEU with the correct solution that
won him the first prize of $100. A few
minutes later a messenger appeared bear
ing the, correct answer of P. 13. Hlsesser,
Continued on Page feen, f'oluiuu Tu
SCANDAL FLIES FASTEST
Professor Holds Truth, Slowest Trav
eler, Except Alarm Clock's Sound
MADISON, Wis., April 13. Scandal
travels 1090 yards per second, according
to Prof. Benjamin Snow, head of the Uni
versity of Wisconsin's physics depart
ment. Profeetor Snow bases his calcula
tions on observations made at the unl
erslty. Flattery has the second greatest speed,
the professor finds, traveling from 400 to
500 yards In the same time. Truth, how
ever, he declares. Is slowest of all. moving
only about two and a half yards per sec
ond The computations he said, were
based on tho speed of the sound of aa
alarm clock, whU.o. la zero.
CARRANZA DEMANDS 0. S. QUIT
VILLA CHASE, CITING WILSON'S
PLEDGE TO WITHDRAW TROOPS
Mexican First Chief Declares Permis
sion for Expedition Was Never
Given, But Allowed Later
on Limited Scope
Massing of De Facto Forces Near Border and to Rear
of Pershing's Men Alarms Officialdom, Fearing
Blow, Unless President Agrees to
Carranza's Demand
The do facto government of Mexico through First Chief Carranzn today
dcmnntls that American troops bo withdrawn from Mexico and tho pursuit
of Francisco Villa be abandoned.
Tho text of the note, demanding withdrawal has been received by Car
ranzn Ambassador Designate Arredondo in Washington, but has not yet been
delivered to Secretary Lansing.
The basis for the demands aro:
First That Amertcon troops wore sent into Mexico, following
the Villistn raid on Columbus, N. M., March 0, through n misinter
pretation of the Carranza note of March 10, which, Carranza con
tends, was assent to the opening of negotiations only.
Second Thnt since tho expedition already has begun, without
the knowledge of the Mexican Government, the troops would be
allowed to remain until its purpose had been accomplished, this pur
pose, as defined by President Wilson, being to "pursue Villa and his
bands until destroyed or dispersed, or until the Carranza troops were
able to take up tho task."
Third That this purpose now had been accomplished and nego
tiations for the withdrawal of the forces should begin, for "sufficient
numbers of Mexican troops were now pursuing Villa."
Carrunza Seeks to Hold Wilson to Fledge.
Interpretation of the Carranza note is that the First Chief is now holding
President Wilson to his pledge to withdraw the American troops as soon
as tho Mexican forces were able to cope with the situation, this pledge having
been made after the entrance into Mexico on a misunderstanding.
Washington is perturbed over the situation, particularly for the safety
of General Pershing's men, since reports from the border indicate that they
aro now surrounded by Carranza troops moro than double their number. It is
said Pershing has 14,000 troops and that Mexican leaders have vowed ven
geance against them.
Mexicans Prepared to Strike United Stales Troops
It is said that the Carranza forces are prepared to strike unless the
American Goxernment agrees to withdraw. Even at thnt fears nre enter
tained, because it is believed that Carranza might not be able to control
all his forces.
The Americans are at least 400
WunlcattonlBb
lcaxionMioira 100 &irannruni(
are consificrcdn 'a tsritica'lrituntl
ion:
1
CARRANZA FORGES SURROUND U. S.
ARMY; AWAIT WILSON'S ACTION
EL PASO, Tex., April 13. General Pershing's expedition in Mexico, esti
mated to number now 14,000 men, is surrounded todny by more than twice
that number of Carranzistas waiting for the diplomatic "showdown" that
must follow the de facto Mexican Government's demand that the United
States troops be withdrawn.
This fact was clearly shown in all reports reaching the border today
from Mexico. They revealed that Minister of War Obregon is sending Car
ranza troops to advantageous tactical positions along the American line of
communication.
General Arnulfo Gomez, who has dramatically announced that he will
be known in history as "Black" Gomez because of the number of "gringoes"
he will kill, is headed eastward from Sonora with a force of approximately
5000 men. General Obregon has also ordered 4500 men into the Cusihuirachic,
BRUMBAUGH REFUSES
TO ANSWER QUESTIONS
ABOUT OTHER CHECKS
Will Not Reply to "Rumors" of
Contributions He Received
in Addition to That
of Oliver
PROMINENT MEN NAMED
A dispatch from Harrlshurs to a Phila
delphia morning newspaper, published to
day, saa that Goernor was seen at the
executive mansion at the Capital last
night, by a representative of the newspa
per, and bhown a series of question "bear
ing on contributions, it was rumored, he
received outside of the one he got from
David B. Oliver." These questions, the
dispatch continues, were as follows:
It Is currently rumored that In ad
dition to the Oliver contribution you
wore tho recipient of other gifts or
loans from other persons while you
wero a candidate for Governor, Is
this true?
Did you receive any sum of money
either In check or cash from Mr.
Jvolb (Louis J. Kolb. of this city,
his personal friend), and if so, how
much, nnd what use did you make
of It?
"Just a moment," said the Governor,
according to the dispatch. "Let me have
that Hat of questions," and he reached for
the paper containing the questions and
proceeded to read it. As he went down
oer the page he looked puzzled and re
marked: 'This seems to call for more than
ordinary Inspection. I will read it over
and dictate the answers at the Capitol
tonight."
The other pointed questions on the
page shown the Governor, which, the
publication continues, ha put In the pocket
of his dinner Jacket, were as follows:
Did you receive any sum of money,
either In check or cash,, from Clarence
Wolf, and if so. how much, and what
use did you make of It?
Did you receive any sum of money,
either in check or cash, from Edwin
Wolf, and If so. how much, and what
use did you make of it?
Did you receive any sum of money,
either In check or cash, from Charles
McKeeliaa, and If so. how much, and
what use did you make of it?
Did you receive any sum of money,
either la check or cash, from Robert
Omtlatud si Pas T. Coloaa ?wi
miles 'within Mexico, with lines of c?m-
,w r ' --.xir -.., --..I- ','' r- '- . ' -- I- -
Continued on I'acc Tno, Column Tlirr
R. H. DAVIS' BODY
TO BE CREMATED
HERE TOMORROW
Services for Noted Author nnd
War Correspondent Will Be
in City Formerly
His Home
RELATIVES BRING BODY
The body of Richard Harding Davis,
author and war correspondent who died
yesterday at his residence near Mount
Klsco, New York, will be brought to
Philadelphia tomorrow for cremation at
the columbarium of the Chelten Hills
Cemetery at 3 o'clock.
Mr. Davis died suddenly nt his home at
9 HO Tuesday night while calling the
office of the Western Union Telegraph
Company ut Mount Klsco to send a tele
gram to a friend at the Harvard Club.
The body will be accompanied to Phila
delphia by his wife, who was formerly
MUs Bessie McCoy, the actress, and their
lS-months-old daughter, Hope Davis.
Charles Belmont Davis, of New York, a
brother of Mr. Davis, will also accom
pany the body, which will arrive tomor
row afternoon at Broad Street Station
over the Pennsylvania Railroad.
Detailed arrangements of the funeral
will not be made until late today.
DIES ON DATE PREDICTED
Jacob Rein", Reserve Policeman 13,
Fulfils Oft-Repeated Prophecy
The oft-repeated prediction of Reserve
Policeman Jacob .Rein. No. 13, who had
been a member of the force, for more than
forty years, that he would "die on the
llth." was fulftllea early today, when he
died at his home. 830 North 25th street,
following three weeks' Illness.
Relit was one of the original 3SS Cen
tennial guards, of whom there are now
4 J living. Last night the guards met at
a banquet, reorganized and elected otllcers
.as Reiff was breathing his last He -was
appointed on tho police force on December
5, 1875. and assigned to the old 9th dis
trict station. In 1880 be was assigned to
reserve at 9th and Market streets, which
position he held for many years. Lately,
on account of falling health, he served as
messenger, to City HalL He Is survived
by a wdow and bos, Charles. Reiff;
EXTRA
U. S. TROOPS FIRED UPON
IN SOUTH
SAN ANTONIO, Tex., Apill 13. Amcricnn soldiers wero fired
upon fit Parrnl yesterday. Mnjor Geneial Funstoil wns officially not
ified of the matter today. The repoit to hhn, However, made no rain
tlon of casualties The fire wns returned by the American soldiers.
Thf fhst news of the engagement cnnie from General Gutierrez, Car
rnuzistn commander In Chihuahua, It being transmitted through
American Agent Letcher, now at Chihuahua City. The message from
General Guetieiiez said that Villlstns and citizens of Farral, a ralX
ioad centre in southern Chihuahua, "exchanged shots" with the Amer
icans because the aiilval of the latter at dawn had been a surprise.
CUT TREASURER REPORTS BALANCE OP $5,776,508
The weekly statement of City Treasurer William McCoach shows that tho
receipts amounted to $187,434.76, and tho payments to $1,719,413.98, which, wlth
tho Bum on hand last weelt, not Including the sinking fund account, left a balance
of $D,77G,508.G3 on hand at tho close of business Inst night.
U. S. BATTLESHIPS COLLIDE
WASHINGTON, April 13. United States battleships South Carolina arid
Michigan collided while mnnouvorlng In tho Gulf of Mexico Into yesterday, advlcea
to the Navy Department todny stated. Admiral Fletcher, commander of the
Atlantic licet, reported the dumngo wns slight and no ono wns Injured. Th6
vessels are on their way from Guuntnnumo
BERLIN TO LOWER PRICE OP BEEF
BKULIN, April 13. Hegulntlons for tho distribution of Berlin's beef supply, ,
which will soon become effective, include the fixing of maximum prices. Tho
new prices will mean n reduction of 30
NAVARRE FIGHTS OFF
PAniS, April 13. French uvlators over tho Verdun lines have no estab
lished a complete ascendancy and every day sees fresh exploits. Last week'
Adjutant Navarre, who has accounted for seven Gorman aeroplanes. Vfas In the
air i'4 hours In three dnys. A few days ngo ho fought five Fokkers single handed.
"They wero fairly far off," said Navarre, "to tho right nnd left, and beforo and
behind. I mndo sure thnt my baby was well In hnnd, and I did Borne tricks to
amuse them. Suddenly, as If nt a given slgnnl, all five boro down on Tno.
waited for them. Then I made three little loops and camo up behind two,'
Fokkers. Naturally I let drive nt them. The others dared not try to snlpo ma .
for fear of hitting their own pals. It was extremely funny."
"ABSURD," SAYS SPAIN'S
MADRID, April 13. "Wo aro confronted with such an Incomprehensibly J
absurd nrt thnt I nm lnfii r. .AuA..A i. ...i, - .. . . ... . u 1
..., w.... wv. uwioTD 11
said Count Itomanoncs. tho Snnnish
thq Spanish steamship Santandrlno In the Bay of Biscay, ns p. consequence Pf'
Which foul llVPS worn lnof 'T nrv. .....I.I ...... ... ,. . - . . , x A
I . .. j. . . " '
. .. V. .. ---,- . i,. iraums 1Wr iu iniorrruuion oeiore taxing
i ' i
U-BOAT COMMANDER GETS HIGHEST DEmrcATmtf
BKR.LIN, April 13. Pour le Merltc.
mo un-ui iu(- mo particular purpose or
nnd naval mntters, hns been conferred
niander of a submnrine."
2,500,000 BRITISH
LONDON, April 13. A Dally News
1'iencn uuuetin ues Armer-s says the
nut oo.ooo in August of 1914, nnvv numbers 2,500,000.
MORGANTHAU WILL RETURN TO TURKEY IN MAl
WASHINGTON, April 13. Henry
line been In this country several weeks
thorlzed n denlul of tho leport that lie would tender his resignation today,
do not expect to resign nnd exppct to sail for Constantinople early In May,"
said.
ITALY WORRIED OVER
HOME, April 13. Uneaslners about the Intentions of Rumania, which for a
considerable time was much allayed, Is again manifest owing to Rumania's re
newed commercial relations with the Centrn! Powers. There is a general feeling"
thnt Rumania should not bj trusted until she shows her Intentions by acts. The
closing of tho Russlan-P.umanlun frontier is supposed to be a measure of reprisal
tor the Rumanian economic arrangement with Bulgaria and the central empires.
FRENCH SENATE TO FIX MAXIMUM FOOD PRICES
PARIS, April 13. Tho French Senate has just ndopted the principle of
fixing by decree the maximum selling prices of necessnrles of life. The Govern
ment 'proposes to fix tho prices of bread, ment, milk, butter, imitation butter,
eggs, lard, potatoes, sugar, cheese, green vegetables, wine, cider, table; beer,
fertilizers, petroleum and alcohol for burning purposes. The proposed period
of nppllcatlon Is the duration of the war and three months following thq cessa
tion of hostilities. t
MINOR ACCIDENT DELAYS COMMUTERS
Hundreds of commuters were late
coupler of a freight train gave way near Oak Lane, and as n result three pas
senger trains were held up. The Buffalo express, the Trenton local and the Lans
dale local were from 20 minutes to half an hour late.
60,000 GERMANS SHIFTED TO VERDUN FRONT
LONDON. April VS. "News lias arrived here from Munich, via Constance.
says un Express dispatch from Geneva,
enforced temporary Inaction by the Russians, owing to the bad roads and the
weather. Is transferring every spare division to tho Verdun front. The number
transferred is estimated at 60,000. These troops will act chiefly aa reserves, an4
will be ready to return to the eastern front when danger threatens there. TU4
efficiency of the German military railways has been trebled since the beginning
ol the war."
TOWNSHEND WELL; EXPECTS SPEEDY AID
JOHANNESBURG, April 13. Sir Lionel Phillips, a leading South African
gold mine operator, announces that he has received a message from Major Gen
eral Charles Tovvnbend, commande'r of the British troops besieged at Kut-el-Amara,
Mesopotamia, stating that Jia is well and expecting to be relieved shortly.
BRITAIN PUTS GOLD
LONDON-, April 13. A royal proclamation was Issued, last night extending'
the list of articles which hereafter will be treated as actual contraband. In
cluded In the list are "gold, silver and paper money aid all negotiable lnstru.
ments and realizable securities."
, POPE DISPLEASED AT MERCIER'S ACTIVITY
LONDON. April 13. According to reports circulating i;j Vatican circles, ttrt
Pppe is annoyed by what Is called there "Cardinal Herder's excessive activity
He sent a fresh message of moderation to the Belgian Primate, put so far tb.
Pontiff has resisted pressure from many quarters to disavow Cardinal Metctcr'a
attitude. The Pontiff doesn't wish to resort to any actipn which might Imperii
even apparently the neutrality of the Hol See, but he IBrmly bellevea that tha
resurrection of Belgium Is not being assisted by the hostile attitude of its popula
tion to the present occupants, which, it is held, can only delay it by hindering; tt
efforts of those vyprklag for Its attainment., '
CHIHUAHUA TOWM
IN GULF; DAMAGE SLIGH$ 4
to northern wnters for spring practice; J
to CO per cent, from the present prices.
FIVE FOKKER AEROS
PREMIER OF U-BOATS ACT '
uiiui u. Liiuniuirii mniiirv nnn nonn mnriM " ti
Prpmlor with w,r.,-.i . n, ..ii li
wl "'" "'"""union ucioro uuuuk j
.- ;
- - .
the Prusslnn order founded by FrederlpfiH
recognizing exceptional merit In military
on Lleutennnt Otto Stclnbrinck, "the conv
'
TROOPS IN FRANCE
dispatch from Paris states that thj
British army In France, which numb
Morganthau, Ambassador to Turkey,!
on a leave of absence, Inst nlght
RUMANIAN INTENTIONS
to their offices UIs morning, when th "A
"that the German Stuff, counting on an -Ji
ON CONTRABAND LIST
"I
I
uML 'iKhtfrtii
