WEATHER -ISr f?
MARKE 76
New YORK CITV
Average price of cop.
per for week ending
April 5, 26.31
Thursday cloudy; Fri
day probably fair and
warmer.
Associated Press Special Leased Wire Service.
VNOZIUV 'XIN30Hd
BISBEE, ARIZONA, THURSDAY MORNING, APRIL 13, 1916.
PRICE FIVE CENTS.
VOL. 18, NO. 274.
Six Villista Prisoners Identified As
Participants In Recent Columbus Raid
(By Review Leased Wire) j
COLCMBTS. X. M.. April 12. The six Villista prisoners. brought ? j
l the bonier last night under Heavy guard. Have been t(lenniu-i po inv"i ;
' r.v soldiers and . townspeople as having participated in the raid on Co!- ,
u 111 bus. March 9. Major .W. R. Sample, commandant of the base, an-
I nouneco. lonigiu.
It was determined also that one or tne prisoners, v.no nan cianneii i
to be a Carranzista soldier captured by Villa, was a member of Yilia's j
band when It raided Columbus, bavins deserted the de facto troops.
It was announced the men would be held here pending a;i imestiga- ,
tion as to the legal steps to be taken in prosecuting them.
Inclement weather conditions hampered wireless communication with
the front today, but military authorities here expressed no ccnccm and
'assert that General Pershing is probably pushing his campaign rapidly
' farther into the interior of Mexico and it is impossible that some troops
I are operating on the Durango border.
! Military men of rank here say freely they believe the conclusion of
the compaign is yet months away. Few of them take Mock in the pos
sibility of the expeditionary force being withdrawn. r Much interest, liow
' ever, is manifested in the proposals to increase the force, it being pointed
out that the line of communication now ts more than rour nunareil nines
long.
WASHINGTON
iinni nt- nil
fill MM ULA V
HUSH IILMJI
TO ANSWER !
BERLIN
BRANDEIS MUST STAND
WASHINGTON', April 12.-
President Wilson. It was learn
ed today, is determined to
str.nd behind the nomination of
Louis I). P.raiideis fxa associate
ju:li(f of the Supreme Court
in spile of determined opposi
tion among members of the
Senate. Officials said today
thalihe President .would not
consider withdrawing the nomination.
With Fress Dispatch of Ger
man Reply on Submarine
Question at Hand Officials
Find Task Simplified.
CONTINUE TO COMPILE
INFORMATION ON CASE
M0R6EKTHAU IS NITROGEN PLAN
EXPECTED TO PROVISION IS
RESIGN i LIKELY OF
key, Who Has Been Home
on Vacation, Is Not Ex
pected to Return to Post
(By Review Leased Wire)
WASHINGTON, April 12. Henry
With Acknowledgement, By
Berlin, of Sinking Certain
Ships Representations Will
Be Made by U. S. Shortly.
(By Review Leased Wire)
Washington, April 12 Admis- American Ambassador to Tur
Rion by Germany that her submarines
recently attacked three merchant
ships carrying American citizens and ,
that one of them torpedoed a vessel in i
the vicinity of the point where the
Sussex was damaged by ah explosion,'
has simplified the task of the State ; Moreantnau Ame'rican ambassador to
ieparuucui in prcpniins i i"e " Trlr 1 ovnpctod In Kiihmit nis res
step of the United States in the issue ignaUo to President Wilson tomor-
over suomanne wanare. ;row Abranl Eikus cf xew York has
Following the receipt in cabled 5eon sugsPKted as his successor,
press dispatches of the latest German Mr. Morganthau has been home on.
note, it became known that the I'nitedjieavp for several weeks. He was at
States would continue to compile in-1 the White House today, but did not
formation indicating that German sub-! see the President, with whom be has
marines are operating in violation of an engagement tomorrow. He would
the rules of international law and that I not discuss reports of his forthcoming
very socn a communication, designed . resignation directly, but said he might
to be the final word of the American jnot return to Constantinople next
government on the Bupject, would go month as he had planned,
forward to Berlin. Tne President has been greatly
The state department virtually has.peased witu ,ne work donp by Mr
completed the collection of facts re- iMorsanthau in Turkey and if his resig
latingtoanattackson merchant ships, a(.cepted. it will be with re-
pnee the Lus.tania. Further Jd j luctance.. Ever since the minister s
in the case of the Sussex, forwarded) . .. ., , . . ,
bv the American embassies at London ! I1 ,h; l7"'ted States so"" of
and Paris, is to arrive on the liner, h,s friends HVP been urging him to
St. Paul Fridav. It. is understood rP!i'Pn ln ord, r to ast,,st in ,ne cam'
that instructions to Ambassador Ger-Pin for the reelection of Mr. Wilson
rard, accompanied by the information.lt suggested that Mr. Morganthau
fathered by the department, will go I succeed Rolla Wells of St. Louis as
forward soon thereafter. trea.'urer of the Democratic National
The unofficial text of the note from ! Committee. Mr. Wells offered his res
Germany was communicated to Presi- ignation at a meeting of the commit
dent Wilson and Secretary Lansing to- tee here several months ago. but re
night. The official text was expected , considered at the request of the Dem
hourly. It was considered by the cab-0cratic leaders. Ira Nelson Morris, at
inet at itb regular meeting on Fri- j present American minister at Sweden.
"av- (has been proposed to the President by
Officials made it clear tonight that ; Senatcr Lewis of Illinois, for the Con
whatever may be the form of instrue- s,antjllop,e post in case Mr. Morgan
tions to Gerard the purpose of the doc-; ,nau retires
ument to be handed to the German J
government would be to give notice;
that Vnited Stales considers it has' POWDER PLANT DESTROYED,
a great array of evidence tending toj ROANOKE. Va., April 12 The plant
prove that in scite of reiterated as-1 of the Du Pont Powder Company,
surances and pledges given by Ger-! eight miles west of Bluefield, W. Va.,
many peaceful merchant ships, car- j was destroyed by' an explosion at
.rying American citizens, of which 1 3:30 o'clock this morning, according
might have some aboard, continue to j to telephone advices from Bluefield.
be victims of illegal attacks. Three men were killed. The loss is
(Continued from page two.) i estimated at J150.0OO.
I ;
!(. ;
SANK RESOURCES
; OF II S SM i
j! ENORMOUS !
! GAINS j
f
Broncho Yaquis Defeated By Force of
Carrdnza Troops Under General Estrada
(By Review Leased Wire.)
DO TOLAS, April 12. A laree fotce of Broncho Yaqui Indians was de
cisively defrayed Tuesday by defacto government troop under General Ha
f; l K"t radu, according to a brief message received today by P. Klias Calles.
!::: ry governor of Sonora from Gen lal Kstrada. The message said the
f'i'tit occurred at Agua Calientes. 12 miles east of the Toiiichi branch of the
Sothh'Mn Pacific Railroad of Mexico and lasted several hours.
General Estrada's plan of cam pal n. as stated by General CaMes is to
c;ive the Yaquis eastward out of the Yaiui River valley. Aeua Calientes
fortified hy the Indians and is reported to have been amply provisioned
o withstand a siege. It is said by Am-erican well acquainted with that sec
:'in of S;:non. to be the last stronghold of the tribe.
Genera! Calles expects to remain in Agua Prieta about a week. But it
v ;..; 't.ired at headquarters this afternoon that he will probably not go to
i lie ('Mhuahiia border. He intends, as nearly as can be learned, to return
to Hermr.sillo from Agua Prieta.
eneriil Arnulfo Gomez is personally in Agua Prieta. hurrying the for
wair'.ing cf supplies to his column at Colonia Morelos 65 miles southeast of
hce. with which he intends to enter Chihuahua through Pulpito Pass. The
start was to have been today but was delayed on account of the failure of
"ipTi'.ie,. to arrive at the main camp.
VILLA BAUD IS
I Total Resources of American
National Banks Greater than '
Those of Germany, Eng-'
land, Russia and France, j
INCREASE HAS BEEN i
GREAT DURING YEAR'
PERPETRATORS
OF SHIP FIRES
I
READY TO MOVE
MORE TROOPS
TO MEXICO
VON JAGQW DENIES SUBMARINE
SUNK FRENCH STEAMER SUSSEX
(By Review Leased Wire ;
BERLIN. April 12. Germany's
I sex, Manchester Engineer, English-re-
man, Berwindvale and Eagle Point
ply to the inquiries of the American I that the mentioned cases, in accord
government regarding the steamers ance with our notes of the 30th and
Sussex, Manchester Engineer, English-! 31st ultimo and the 4th and 5th in
man, Eerwindvale and Eagle Point, ! stant. have been subjected to careful
signed by Gottlieb von Jagow, the! investigation by the admiralty staff of
German minister of foreign affairs,
has been forwarded to Washington by
Ambassador Gerard.
the navy which has led to the follow
ing results.
"First: the English steamer Ber-
The note denies th3t the Sussex was windvale. A steamer which was pos
attarked by a German submarine. Thelsibly the Berwindvale was encounter
investigation covering the Sussex ed on the evening of March 16 in
case, says the note, was extended toj sight of Bull Rock Light, on the Irish
all sections undertaken on March 24 ' coast by a German submarine. The
the day of the Sussex incident in the steamer, as soon a-s she noticed the
channel between Folkstone and Di-! submarine, which was running unsub
eppe. One steamer was sunk, the merged, turned .and steamed away,
commander of the German submarine i She was ordered to halt by a warning
reports in the definite conclusion that' shot. She paid no attention, how
it was a was vessel. A sketch of the , ever, to this warning, but ertinguish
vessel together with the photograph's j ed all lights and attempted to escape,
repioductions of a picture of the; The vessel was then fired upon until
Sussex, printed in the London Daily halted, and without further orders.
Graphic, were enclosed with the note, ' lowered several boats. After the
the difference in the two craft being crew entered the boats and received
indicated. : enough time to row away, the ship
The steamers Englishman and Eagle, was sunk.
Point were sunk by German subinar.-
"The name of this steamer was not
ines after they had attempted to established; ilt cannot be stated with
escape and time was allow ed for the j assurance, even with the help of the
withdrawal of those aboard. details which were furnished by the
The steamer Berwindvale was pos- American embassy that the above de
sitly sunk by a German submarine,1 scribed incident concerns the steamer
while definite details with respect to , Berwindvale. Since, however, the
the .Manchester Engineer are lacking ; steamer sunk was a tank steamer like
and therefore there has been no suf-jthe Berwindvale, the identity of the
ticient bajis for investigation of this ship may be assumed. In this case.
particular case.
The following is the text of the
German Note o;i the Sussex, dated
April 10:
"The undersigned has the honor to
inform your excellency. Ambassador
Gerard, in response to communica
tions of the 30th ultimo and the 3rd
instant, regarding the steamers Sus-
however, the statement made that the
Berwindvale was
Amendment Offered to Kill
Section in Army Bill Is Lost Comptroller of the Currency
.1 r . 1 1 i l . '
in ine aenaie. unaerwooa i
Amendment Still Pending. '
States That the Country i
was Never in a Stronger!
Four Men, Connected With
Various German Concerns,
Arrested. Charged With
Bomb Plot
Officials at Washington De
clare They Will Be Ready
for Any Eventuality in the
Southern Republic.
(MUM
TOWN
Bandits Numbering Several
Hundred Raid Town of Sier
ra Mojada, Five Miles Over
Coahuila State Line.
VILLA MAY HAVE BEEN
IN LEAD OF PARTY
Rumors Have it That Leader
Has As His Object An At
tack on Ojinnaga, Across
the Border from Texas.
(By Review Leased Wire.;
DAY IN CONGRESS.
SENATE:
Met at noon.
Resumed debate on army re
organization bill.
Sisal investigation continued.
HOUSE:
Met at noon.
Discussed calendar Wednesday
business.
Mis Margaret Wilson advicated
a bill before a House committee
to permit using school buildings
for community forums.
SENATE:
Adopted Senator Lodge's resolu
tion asking Secretary Daniels for
copies of correspondence between
him and the navy general board,
which he refused to produce be
fore the House naval committee.
Defeated 47 to 24, motion to eli
minate provision for manufacture
of fertilizers in time of peace in
the pending amendment to the
army bill for hydro-electric nitro
gen plant.
WASHINGTON. April 12. Favor
able consideration by the Senate on
the proposal to construct a huge
hydro-electric air nitrogen plant for"
the manufacture of powder in war'
times, and fertilizer in peace, was'
forcast today when a motion by Sen-j
ator Hard wick to strike out the fer-'
tilizer feature of the pending amend-!
ment to the army bill was defeated
47 to 24. 1
The amendment, introduced by!
Senator Smith of South Carolina. was
under discussion all day. It provides .
for a plant with an ultimate cost of!
$15,000,000 the surplus nitric acid'
over what may be needed for powder i
to go into fertilizer to ba sold direct-1
ly to the farmers by the Secietary of;
Agriculture. i
Senator Hardwick declared the plan'
socialistic and repugnant to the spirit
of democracy. Senator Suthrland j
questioned the constitutionality of the)
fertilizer proposal, although he said '
there could be no question as to the1
government's power to manufacture'
chemicals for its own military needs. .
Senator Hardwick's motion was de-1
feated by the votes of 38 Democrats1
and nine Republicans, the latter be-
ing Senators Clapp, Cummins. Groniia.
Kenyon. LaFollette, McCuiuber. Nor-j
ris, Poinder and Sherman. The dem-i
ocrats who voted for it w ere Senators j
Hardwick. Overman, Pomerene. Smith'
of Georgia and Stone.
The Cn'derwood amendment was
still pending when the Senate re-j
cessed until tomorrow. The senate j
will take up the measure some time I
next week, under the agreement '
reached last week. ,
SISAL INVESTIGATION.
WASHINGTON. April 12 Edward
B. Bailey, a member of the firm of
Henry W. Peabody of Boston, today
told the Senate committee investigat
ing an alleged sisal monopoly that his
firm had been put out of the si.sal im
porting business by the Commission
Regulators, a commission of Yucatan
Financial Position.
(Sy Review Leased Wire.)
WASHINGTON, April 12. Fin
ancial prosperity and strength is
greater in the Tnited States to
day than ever before and is rais
ing rapidly -to new levels, accord
ing to the interpretation placed .
by the comptroller of the curren
cy on figures made puolic today
showing conditions on March 7,
the date of the last bank call, in
the country's national banks. Here
is what tne returns show:
Total reLources of national
banks $13.8:J8.000,000. an increase
of $2.271.0t't),0fit orw-my per
cent within a year.
Total deposit $10.790J)0O,0lO, an
increase of $2,108,000,000 or near
ly twenty-live per cent within a
year, and an increase of $111,000,
000 since December 31 last. All
increase of $yo,00,Oi0 in loans
and discounts within a year. Sur
plus snd individual profits of
$1,021,278,000, an increase of $18.
ooo.ooo. The increase in resources
within the past twelve months
alone. Comptroller Williams point
ed out in a statement tonight, ex
ceeds the entire resources of the
Reichs bank of Gt-rniaiiy: and
tii? aggregate reouices of Ameri
can national banks, exceed by $:!,
xoo.oou.ooo the aggregate resour
ces of the Bank of England, ihe
Bank of France, the Bank of Rus
sia, the Reichsbank of Gerninny,
the Netherlands, the Swiss Na
tional iiank and the Bank of
Japan.
As recently as lSOil, the state
ment say, the entire amount oa
deposit in national banks within
the Tnited States was less than
the increase in deposits within
the past twelve months.
Total reserves held by national
banks March 7. were $2,227,000,
000. This is $99,000,000 more than
the law requires and is more than
$100,000,000 in excess of the great
est surplus reserve ever held be
fore. "It is conservatively estimated,"
reads the comptroller's statement,
"that the surplus reserve now held
by the national banks would be
suliicier.t to give a further loaning
power of $3,000,000,000 to $4,000.
000.000 should the growth and de
velopment of commerce, agricul
ture or' Industry call for such an
enlargement of credit.
"Notwithstanding the Anglo
French loan of $500,000,000 and
the loans made to other foreign
powers, amounting to several hun
dred million dollars additional,
which our banks to a gieater or
les3 degree have participated,
there are no indications of ' un
sound inflation or excessive loans,
and the national banks of the
country have never been in a
stronger position than they are at
this time."
j NEW
, charged
(Bv Review Leased Wire)
1 WASHINGTON. April 12. Further
increase of the Tniied Slates forces In
! Mexico is again prominent in official
vnpf nr;i i"lv,,. ! consideration. It
I II HI
Bake
(By Review Leased Wire.)
FL PASO. April 12. A large band
of Villistas, numbering several hun
dred anil possibly a thousand, have
sacked Sierra Mojada. five miles a
cross the Coahuila line and eighty
miles east cf Jimenez, destroying ma
ny thousands if dollars of American
properiy and loo'int the town of ev
erything .f value.
This news, which may prove to b
with complicity in nianufac-
a bos i d ships carrying munitions and
supplies to the Entente allies, were ar
rested here today. Three of the sus
pects are employes of German steam
ship lines. They are accused of .hav
ing been involved, with others not yet
i in custody, of foment ing a plot, whl
was learned ionigni:nf th highest imnortanre a- it is be-
upon the return hereof Secretary j,ivvw, p0!!ib,e villa himself was a
r from Cleveland there might be moT) t,le r(,ii,iers. was received her-
today by the representative of one of
the largest American mining compan
ies in Mexico and is accepted by him
as absolutely authentic. The bandits
made their attack on he town on April
5. They came from Escalon. a junc-
important developments.
In this connection, it was officially
stated that General Pershing's future
movements in the hunt for Villa would
include adequate preparations for any
eventuality. Strengthening of the lino
of communication for which troops are tion point on the Mexican National
Kailroart. sixty miles sou'heast of Jim
enez and about an equal distance so'ith
west or Sierra Mojnda. with which it
is connected by the Mexican Northern
Railroad. On their way to Sierra Vo
inria ihey attacked the small town of
Corrillo.
The belief that Villa himself may b
directing the operations of the ban-
ppread in its ramifications, for the de- needed principally, has proceeded wii li
st ruction of merchantmen. ! that end in view.
I The men under arrest ere Ernest j Late today confidential advices were
j Becker, 32. born in Germany, electri-: received from General Funston, under
jcian on the steamer Kaiser Freiderich stood to refer to the question of the
der Grose. said by the police to have I line of communication. Despite the
! confessed to manufacturing hundreds - increased use of Mexican railroads in
jif bomb caps; Captain Charles von shipping supplies, reported today there
IKleisi. K7. born in Germany, superin-iwas no suggestion in anv official miar-
tendent of the New Jersey Agricultur-j ter that the strength of the motor dits is sinioried bv a report received
I at Chemical Company of Hoboken. N. truck service would be in the least de-todav fro-n Ojinaua stating that Colo
'J.. who has confessed, it is asserted, : creased. . pel Rioip. the commander there, had
'that "fire bombs" were loaded in his; conVern of army officials on the bor information tlat Villa had doubled in
company's place of business; Captain j d,r regarding movement of CarrBnza his tracko and wa 200 miles suth
j Otto Wolnert. 44. superintendent of the lroops tcwar,j fasas Grandes was re- 'est of that town."
Athvs Line piers of the Hamburg-Am-1 flp(.ted Q some tent in official quart Ojinaga is directlv across the bor
lei ican lips. who is accused of having ters. nerp tnigut. i, was officially der from Presidio. Texas and about l-W
i received the bombs. ; stated that General Funston had com- mil-s north of Sierra Mojada.
Captain Ennebode. superintendent of plete authority for any movement of, Another circumstance that gives col-
Ihe Hamburg-American Line piers in troops on the border to safeguard the or to this location of the bandit chif
Hcboken, who, the police say. has ad-lTnited States advance columns and is the fact that Canuto Reyes. t ;h.
i mitted acting as the agent of Captain (their lines. ; head of a large number of men, was
Franz von Papen. former military at-1 General Scott, chief of staff, while reported from Torreon a week aico to
jtnche at the German embassy, in vis- denying that any orders to send mora he traveling rorth in the direction of
' its to the plant of the New Jersey Ag-1 troops into Mexico had yet been issued sierra Mojada. It was the belief at
iriculiural and Chemical Company, and ', declared General Funston did not need the time in Trrreon that Villa's nofori
, charged with assisting in the distribu-: such authority from Washington and us ally was on his way to join the
tion of the bombs. -had carte blanch to move any forces brigrnd-in-chief.
j Von Klei.-t. who claims to be a bro. ;in the southern division. j If it proves true that Villa has com-
Iher-iii-lavv of General Briesen of the( Persistent reports that use of the nletely hoodwinked ihe American
German army who wa killed in batle . National Guard was contemplated, troops, who have been driving south at
j in December. 1914. was the first to be ' drew a statement on high authority an amazing st-'ed and are today re
j nlaced under arrest. He is said to!
i have been instrumental in bringing to j
police headquarters the men accused'
jof being co-inspirators with him.
I "We have invaded the haunts of the
men who are responsible for the fires ;
'and explosions on steamships, especial '
ly sugar-carrying ships, both at piers:
i and at sea." declared Captain Tunney I
(of ihe "bomb squad" in telling of thJ
'seizure at the chemical company plant ;
: of 200 bombs of the type said to have'
jbeen used in the attempted destruc
tion of vessels. j
The arrests are the result of an in
'vestigation which has been conducted
ihy federal and city authorities since
(Continued on page 7)
I
(Continued, on Page 7
HFORGEMENTS FOR PUIC
ARMY BESEHT TO BORDER AT ONCE
(By Review Leased Wire. : afternoon under the new arrangement.
SAN ANTONIO. April 12. Tnless . General Funsion continued without in
the work of the punitive expedition in formation today as to the location of
Mexico is accomplished within a very '(he advanced cavalry detachmenis.
few days, means will be sought to and no rexrts snpplied information
li Jnn ulu.n th t-Vench irnvprn. ! sirvnL-then General Pershing's forces concerning the whereabouts of ilia
I ment complained to the State Depart-j at the front, it was authoritatively or the stale of hi health. In the al
Iment at Washington that unexplodeo 'slated tonight. It is said that General sence of definite information. General
bombs had been found in sugar bags Funston will ask the War Department i Fun.-:o!i w as not vet inclined to be
j aboard the steamship Kirk Oswald. ! to move into the southern department lieve the 'report that he was dead. The
(One of these bombs was sent to Wash-I the 4.0O0 troops that are stationed at repoit readied here w hile General
ington from Paris and Becker, accord-lot her Dointa in the Tnited States. If Funston and his officers at EI Pa.-o
ing to the police, admitted tonight that jthis i, done, these will be placed on
it wa one r those made by him. (dul yalong the border, relieving for
Becker, the police say. has confessed service in Mexico a part of the 20,000
(that his bciib factory was located on men now doing garrison and patrol
jlhe St .Thomas aboard Ihe Kalaerjduty along the frontier.
' Fredereich der Grosse. Th bombs i Department deems the
I made by him .lie is reported to have troops not now in the department in-
'.asserted, were delivered to von Kleist i expedient, it is believed that General
!at the chemical nlant and to be dis-1 Funston w ill recommend the use of General
jtribtited to men who placed them a-1 militia to relieve the troops along the repcrt.
! board hips. It is believed the bombs border. : There was apparent, today, a skep
;were shipped to various parts of the i Whether the somew hit vague under- ticism an.ong army officers, as io the
;Tiiited Stales, frequently in suitcases. I standing, entered into between Amer- uninterrupted movement of freight ov-
ns ordinary baggage. j ican officers and Carranza officials, er the Mexican Central to Chihuahua.
; Captain Tunney declared funds for' that for the movement of supplies con- and ils subsequent transfer to points
the manufacture of the bombs were ' signed as ordinary freight, is a success on the northwestern near the line of
ihelto discredit the planters organization. .'nP" " m"" considered doubtful in some quar- ' P '!
!o .... ... 7 .. s..t tv he refused to divulge. He said he'ters but it was deemed worthy of trial, local authorities in t hihuantia would
were In Ihe miiUt of negotiations to
begin Ihe shipping of supplies over
the Mexican Central and its receipt
did not alter these negotiations, nor
If the War any of the work connected wilh th
transfer of rout ine of the campaign. It has not
been made the subject of a communi
cr.iion to General Pershing nor has
ershing mentioned it in any
W. B. Spencer, counsel for the com
mission admitted thut there were
only K.000 bales available now a.id
intimated that harvester concerns had
plauters formed by authority of the, bought up the entire market in order
e .M.x lean government, to control
sisal crop.
Bailey, whose
by the conim
with the
company to force down the pr
sisal, outlined the charges of the had been anv agreement between Ar-
American buyers that the Yucatan thur Pierce, Yucntan agent
combine, financed by New Orleans companv, and Avelino .Monies,
bankers, had absolute control over ; represented the Harvester company
ose firm has been charged ! mi l, be neceary to invest igate the ' P' '- j " " MUo wa
. . . . hpr hv "f lent Roh(rt Fnv nlrendv I terfre with Ihe arrangement it was w as expressed. American oniccrs ex-
mission with conspiring : twine manufacture in order to safe-lDPr D i.ieui. uooeri ray, aireaoy leriere in n- '"." "- " .,. r.,,
International Harvester i -uard the farmers under indictment in connection with recognized that it will go Tar towards plained that wilh General Pershing s
force down the prices off Mr. Bailev denied that there ever ! P'0'" in!,t enshlp. The laleviating a situation that some offi-; advanced force 400 miles from the
pen Ar-I r"''""'e Illan-V or l,,p oomna to ex- ciais nal reganieu as rapiuiy oecoiuing iji . - 'ii'i"-
for his'!,,,', Krpa"-V chagrined the persons acute, but since the request for the at an inicnuediate point would mako
i who' "sponsible for their manufacture and I use of the railways w as asked, the simpler the distribution of f.HHlstu.Ts
distribution, Tunney said Kay told him. i n-lf tary situation nas so c nnngen mat ""m ir in-i nu .minnai. mi. i ;
lthi.nl I thp inilnstrv anil cnnlil fnrcp American . tlu-ri -in.l nvscrliul his firm w hich 1 Ms resulted In dissention
a. .....1.1 ..fll.l ... 1 L. . U A f. n ' fn.innri 111 1)1 V QT1V Dril'D phflVA frifi till tlf.l j.wl ll.nut llf lift! llCgl t , tllA p1 tlip police in obtjiininc Information. - use of the rnilronu must he ban if tne men 10
tin.tm. fi... r. !.-. n - ' i nif wpr HBRprTf o. riuunaitin nr mini mr "fnun mm nmi . n.w-
Wnlt-i- I. FiKhnr mi.nl frr the I....I rnTnii,.,,. with the ll-.nostor The bonib were roiuposed of twol'his thou!-.m1. of followers is carried cessity for relieving a prt of thooe
Harvester comDanv. in charging that i concern here. He said that except fori shells, the outer of aluminunj and th'to a logical nnisi.
"Second The British ateamer Eng
lishman. This ateamer, on March 24,
was called upon to halt by & German
submarine through two warning shots
about 20 sea miles west of Islay
(Continued on Page Two.)
which aid-'military men declare that even greater would not enable him to draw more
... nr i,A -.nt.i,1.i tiiiiut ha hrf if i h.) ntrn to the Advance If it is desired
advance the ne-
1 i '
no sisal is being sold in the Tnited -the compulsion of the planters to join
States at present, revealed that farm- the commission, his firm could com
ers are facing a shortage of twine, pete with the Keguladoro.
ngaeed in guarding the line of corn-
inner of zinc. The. inner ahell was Report reached General Funston ninnication or of sending thousands or
tilled with a strong acid, the police I from t'l Paso late today that a (rain of men into Mexico, will be imperative.
(Continued on Tage iipplies left Juarex for Chihuahua this jstrategisis here declare.
