' ,,..
.OPWa.' '?KN,:4
vWspwj vt,"
irwyif$xrr7wwj!i&ttimiM. - f v
, V ,
WEATHER FORECAST:
Partly Cloudy Tonight
(Full Report or Pane Two.)
NTJMBEB 8860.
CRISIS IN MEXICAN "INVASION" SEEN IN
CARRANZA'S WITHDRAWAL DEMAND
PLEA OF RIGGS BANK
OFFICIALS FOR QUICK
TRIAL IS OVERRULED
i
Case Against Glover and FJathers, on Charge
of Perjury, Will Come Up May 8, Justice
Siddons Decides Bankers Must Face
All of Government's Accusations.
The trial of Charles G. Glover, William J. Flather,
and Henry H. Flather, charged with perjury, will be heard
in Criminal Court, No. 1, beginning May 8.
The bankers will have to meet the accusation of the
Government as outlined in the bill of particulars contain
ing 932 items of. alleged stock transactions.
This was the decision reached by Justice Siddons in
denying the motions of the bankers for an earlier trial and
for a statement limited to 100 alleged transactions in
stocks.
Touching on the subject of an earlier assignment, the
decision reads:
."Upon consideration of the motion to assign., said
cases for trial on an early date, and of the affidavit of the
attorney of the United States in response thereto, by which
it appears that he has assigned and advanced the case of
the defendants for trial on May 8, 1916, and of the oral
arguments and authorities cited, the said motions are here
by overruled."
BILL IS CALLED REASONABLE.
The question of the bill of particulars is disposed of in
quite as brief a manner. With reference to this subject,
the opinion reads:
"With respect to the motions for bill of particulars,
filed by the defendants on April 5, 1916, it appears that on
April 7, 1916, the attorney of the United States fired herein
a bill of particulars, entitled in this case and in cases num
bered 31,027, 31,028, and 31,029 on the criminal docket.
"On the oral argument in support of the above men
tioned motions for bills of particulars it was insisted on be
half of the defendants that the bill of particulars filed by the
attorney of the United States, as above stated, was for sev
eral reasons no such bill of particulars as was called for
by them. Upon consideration of the oral argument, made
as above stated, and of the authorities cited, and .of the said
motions for bills pf particulars, and of the bill of particulars
filed by the attorneys of the United States as stated, the
court is of the opinion that the bill of particulars so filed,
reasonably complies with the requirements of said motions,
and the same are therefore overruled."
WANT TRIAL SET FOR APRIL 17.
In their motions counsel for the bank
officials ask that the trial of the bank,
ers be set for April 17.
In the bill of particulars furnished
bv District Attorney Laakoy on April
7 there were JM stock and bond transac
tions cited which were alleged to have
occurred between the Rlggs Bnnk and
the brokerage Arm of Lewis Johnson
and Company. Counsel for the Indicted
banker ask that a, more reasonnble bill
of particulars be furnished them.
Counsel for the bankers, while ex
pressing: regret at their failure to
obtain an earlier trial date than May
8, decline to discuss the case further
than to say that they will be pre-
riared to proceed with the trial when
t Is cklled, District Attorney Laskey
today had no comment to make.
Arguments were heard last Saturday
by Justice Siddons In connection with
the move of Mcasrp. Ulover, Flather,
and Flather to force the district attor
ney to an early trial of tho perjury
charite against them. It was aliened by
the defendant!! that if the trial were
delayed until May 8, as planned by Mr,
Laakoy, the court proceedings might ex
tend beyond the time when the nigg
National Bank must make application
for a renewal of Its charter from the
Comptroller of the Currency
Opposed to Covington.
Attorneys tor the Indicted bapk offi
cials whose Indictment was an angle of
th court controversy between the hank
and the Treasury Department, told the
court that word had come to them that
Comptroller John tikeiton Williams
might Ue upon an excuse axd not Is
Chemaftm Waa$$
sue the bank a new charter. They fear-
oa, so me attorneys saia. tnat Mr. will
lams would withhold the charter be
cause three of the officers of the bank
were under Indictment on a perjury
sccuratlon.
George P. Hoover, who made the prin
cipal argument fot the Qlover-Flather
motion to expedite, Insisted the trial
snouia noi ne uiifcyea Deyoml Anrll 24.
Mr. Hoover ann other attorneyx de
clared the defendants had been await
ing trial since October last, but had
been put off by the District Attorney.
An interesting sidelight of the "speed
up" motion of the defendant was the
development that they were opposed to
trial before Chief Justice Covington,
and had so informed Mr. Leakey in
January.
Sought Definite Bill.
Another plea of the defendants which
tho court also overruled today, wAs for
a definite bill of parllculnrn concerning
the- Mock transactions which Mr. I.aa
key intends to cite In nn attempt to
provide that the Rlggs hank dealt In
slocks. Thoro ure more than C.0'0 en
tries. It is alleced. itbmtinr nn iv.
looks of Lewis Johnson & Co., In that
iimuo oi wic mugs cnnK ana the de
fendant demanded to know what par
ticular entries will be presented to the
Jury in connection vlth the perjury
l.'t I MV
Tkia mIikvwa I. M.III W .....11.
ma viiaiRa. nut uo tcuHiien, grew
out of the signing of an affidavit by
Mirsrs. Glover. Flather. and Flather,
that the bank had not dealt In stocks.
It Is understood that tho defenso will
endeavor to show that this statement
was not perjury: that the entries on
the Johnson book cover not transac
t'ens for the bank, but for the bank's
cuatomtra.
ill
WASHINGTON,
Renders Decision in
Case of Riggs Bankers
rhoto by Harrii-Bwlng.
JUSTICE SIDDONS.
FAVORS DISTRICT
E
Senate Subcommittee Takes
Favorable Action on Poln
dexter Measure. .
The Judiciary subcommittee, headed
by Senator Pomerene. today voted to
mnko a favorable report to the Dis
trict Committee on the Polndexter bill
for a delegate from the District of
Columbia In the House.
The bill was modltled to eliminate
the Presidential primary feature.
Tlio Chamberlain resolution for an
enuni Miffrnge amendment for the Dis
trict will be either unfavorably reported
or withheld for a time.
The Polndexter bill provides for a
single delegate. The plan of providing
for a delegate In the Kenate as well
as in the Mouse was not ndopted.
It Is expected that the Polndexter bill
will arouse much discussion In the Dis
trict Committee. It would provide for
woman Burrrage.
Railway Officials
Refuse to Mediate
Washington - Virginia Railway
Heads Say There's "No Strike,
Only Lockout.'
"e hn.vd nothing to mediate."
This was tho nnswer of officials of the
Washington-Virginia Hallway Company
when approached today on the question
bf mediating tho :rlevnnces between
them and their frtrlklng trainmen.
The dffer cf mediation was made by
Martin A. Knapp, 'halrrnan of the
board of conciliation and mediation of
the Department of Labor. Chairman
Knapp was told by tho officials that,
while they appi eclated Ills uoat offices
and those of '3. NV. W. Hangei. his
assistant the company realized no
necessity for mediation. The company
Insists that thiirr is no strike on it
lines, the officials claiming that they
took the initiative nnd locked out forty
or fifty trainmen for organizing n union.
Chairman Knapp whs Informed that
the officials would be alnd to talk with
the locked-oiit men ns Individuals, hut
not as strikers or member of n union.
Tho unlonlMn Insist on being recog
nized ns mien , . ..
borne i.om) citizens of Falls Church
who aro said to ympathi!tJ with tne
strikers will meet In that village to
night. Addresses will be made by L. A.
C'ferne and several prominent citizens
of the locality. The citizens of Claren
ilnn last night adopted resolutions In
dorsing the stand taken by tho rtrlkera
arid pledging themselves to boycott the
Washington-Virginia line, according to
the Firlkers.
Gregory Refuses
Senate Request
Attorney General Will Not Give
Information on Standard
Oil Operations.
Attorney General Gnijrory today re
fused to nccedo to tho demands of
the Kenyon Senate resolution calllntr
on the Department of .liialh.-e for in-
j foimntlon concerning the operations
of the Stamlani on Company
The attorney General held thl it
would bi Incompatible with public
interest to give tho Information to
tha Senate.
DELEGATE
H
THURSDAY EVENING,
ONLY SUSSEX
IN ZONE NEAR
U-BOAT AHACK
London Cites Facts to Show
Channel Liner Alone Could
Have Been Viotim.
REPORTS ARE COMPARED
LONDON, April 13. Positive
proof that the Sussex was tor
pedoed was seen oy British of
ficials today in the German admis
sion that an unidentified steamer
was attacked by a submarine in the
same place and at practically the
same time the channel liner was
damaged.
It is officially stated that no
other vessel was torpedoed in the
channel at the time mentioned in
the German note transmitted to
Washington.
The Sussex was damaged at
3 :50 p, m. on March 24. ' The
Gepnarunote states, that the -vessel
attacked by the submarine was
torpedoed at 3:55 p. m.
According to the French official
report the Sussex was south ot
Dungeness buoys and about in
middle channel when the explosion
occurred. The German note says
the vessel attacked was south of
Dungeness buoys and about in
mid-channel when she was tor
pedoed. The Sussex was steaming at
about sixteen knots an hour. Tho
German note says the vessel tor
pedoed was steaming at about
eighteen knots.
The entire forward part of the
bussex was torn away by the ex
plosion. The German not says
(Continued en Fourth Page.)
FRENCH REPULSE
HILL 304 ATTACK
Curtain of Fire Stops German
Storming . Column With
Heavy Losses.
PARIS. April 13.-The Germans
launched their first direct attack on
Hill 304, one of tho keystones' ot the
French defenses northwest of Verdun,
late yesterday afternoon.
The war office announce ttiat ih
asaault was stopped by a curtain of
nre irom rencn guns,
Tho Germans emerged from tho
Malancourt woods east of th ulronirlv.
fortified height. They Immediately eanm
under the hot fire of French guna from I
a neighboring aector, nnd but few Ger
man uetaenments succeeded in leaving
their own trenches. The attack was
completely stopped.
Tho night was calm on the whole
Verdun front.
Brings New Forces.
The Germane for the past twenty
four hours have been bringing up
fresh forces to the Verdun front, con
centrating apparently for another
heavy smash west of the Meuse.
Some of the fresh divisions are re
ported to be coming from the Ituoslun
tront. The German front in Frau:e
and Flanders has been so thoroughly
stripped of all reserves that no more
large forcea can bo withdrawn for
action at Verdun.
To protect the thin German line weat
of Verdun, the Germans have estab
llshed a bristling array of machine
guna.
Youth Gets Life Sentence
For Murder of Cripple
NEWCASTLE. Va Aprl H.-rtobert
Deaa, nineteen years old! waa convicted
and given a lift sentence In state prison
today on the charge of murdering
Louisa Thoma, a cripple, eight years
old. and then throwing her body in a
creek.
APRIL 13, 1010.
Receives Carranza's
Withdrawal Note
Itioto by lUrri.Klng.
ELISEO ARREDONDO.
ON U. S. JROPRERS
Americans, However, Escaped
Injury in Passing Through
Parral.
SAN AJNTONIO. April 13.-Carranvlsta
foldlers and citizens In Parrot tired on
American troops when the latter
marched through tho city. Consul Letch
er reported to General Funaton today,
quoting advices from General Gutierrez,
the defacto commander at Parral.
There were no casualties, according to
the advices.
Following receipt of the Parral ad
Iccs, Funaton called attention to the
lack of co-operation by Carranzlstas In
the search for Pancho Villa. He denied
Gutierrez's claim that the appearance
of the Americans took the Parral sol
dlcru and civilians by surprise.
The Carranzlstaa have twice allowed
Villa to slip through their lines, Fun
aton declared, once only recently,. when
thebandit waa reported walled In to
the south by a strong cordon of de
facto troops reported spread east and
weat of Parral.
Prepared for any eventuality, the
American forces will continue their
hunt for Villa Until orders to discon
tinue the chase are received from the
War Department, or Villa la killed or
captured, Major Gen. Funaton stated to
day. Funaton denied the American ad
vanced forcea were In danger in caae
their supplies should be cut off. He
Intimated ho nss full confidence In the
ablU ty of thet Americans to take care
of themselves.
Funaton has not yet received any of
ficial Intimation of the requcat for with
drawal of the expedition.
Heat Plant Tunnel
Work Commenced
Ground Broken in Potomac Park
For Channels for Pipes
and Cables.
Work of constructing the tunnels
through which tho steam pipes and
clectrlo 'cables of the central heating
and lighting plant will run waa begun
today.
First grounds was broken In upper
Potomac Park for the tunnel which
will hold the pipes and wires serving
the Treasury, State, War, ami Navy
building, Whlto House, and other Gov
ernment structurea In the western sec
tion of the city.
The tunnels will be six and one-half
feet high nnd seven feet wide, nlmoat
aa- large as railroad tunnela. Three
mllea of tunnela will be dug before the
work la completed. The company which
went to work on the job today with a
giant excavating machine expects to
comploto tho tunneling within twelve
months.
In the meantime tho opposition to the
location of the power plant at Four
teenth and Water streets continues.
Pleads for Uniform
Bills of Lading
Declaring that in two Mingle In
stances fraudulent bills of ladlnK
amounting to Jll.OCC.OOo had boen ne
gotiated without the guilty pernona
being prosecute'' Charle. ts llali?lit.
of New York. i sentlng the United
Statea Chamber of Commerce, loilnv
mado a pica Before tho House Inter
state Commerce Committee for the
Pomorene bill providing a syatcm uf
uniform, bills of lading.
President Wilson has indorsed 'the
bill.
"'HHSHsivillH
'" BBBBnHHsBBBBSau.'mJBBBl
GARRANZSTAS
PI
NOTE ASKING U. S. TO
END VILLA PURSUIT
NOW BEING DECODED
Ambassador-Desiginate
to Present Formal Demands Late Today
i
or Tomorrow Administration Is Facing
Problem of Turning or Fighting.
TheCarranza Demand
"In consequence of the facts previously expressed, as no final agree
ment has been reached as to the terms of a treaty to regulate
in general the reciprocal passage of troops over the dividing
line for the purpose of pursuing outlaws who may henceforth'
commit depredations in one or the other country, the Mexican
government judges it convenient to suspend for the present all
discussion or negotiations in this particular, or founded on tho
circumstances that the expedition sent by the United States
Government to pursue Villa is without foundation !n virtue of
the nonexistence of a previous agreement, formal and definite.
"And as that expedition has fulfilled its object, in so far as it will be
able to do so, as, the party headed by Villa has already been
'dispersed; and, finally, because there are Mexican troops in'
sufficient number pursuing them, and snore forces are being
sent to exterminate the rest of the beaten party, the first chief
of the constitutionalist army, charged with the execuive power
of the nation, considers that it is already time to treat with tho
United States Government for the withdrawal of their forces
from our territory."
From the note 6f Carranza's secretary for foreign affairs to Seb
retary Lansing.
Eliseo Arrendondo, ambasasdor-designate of the Mex
ican de tacto government, has been instructed by General
Carranza to demand the withdrawal of the American forces
from Mexico.
Thd quoted extracts in the box above are taken from
the formal instructions and contain the gist of the Car
ranza demand.
President Wilson is now confronting the choice of
withdrawing the expedition, or, by ignoring the demand,
inviting war.
Coming at a time when the relations between this
Government ond Germany are almost at the breaking
point, the demand from Queretaro has created a profound
sensation in Washington.
It is a question of giving up the pursuit of Villa to
avenge the bandit's brazen raid and massacre at Columbud,
N. M or of turning back.
Only severafdays ago, when The Times published
tne text of the original orders to General Funston, which
would have authorized a withdrawal at any time the quest
appeared hopeless, the Administration officials issued in
dignant denials that such a withdrawal was contemplated.
Fcr the third time in six weeks the White House announced
that the expedition was in Mexico to "get Villa."
SITUATION GRAVELY CRITICAL.
From a military standpoint the situation is gravely
critical. Pershing's force, believed to nurnber not more
than to.ooo men, is scattered in small detachments along
a line 400 miles long, the head of which penetrates into the
wildest section of Mexico. On either flank and behind
the Americans the forces of Carranza are gathered. Before
them the guerilla bands of Villa are lurking.
Back on the border, stretched out along a boundary
line of 2,000 miles, are the remnants of America's army
8,000 men. Only 4,000 more exist anywhere in conti
nental United States. To send any .of these border forces
to re-enforce Pershing would be to lay the border open to
attack. President Wilson having, in consideration of the
sensibilities of Carranza and his followers, resisted pres
sure to call out the national guard to erve as a border pa
trol, army officers state it would now take three weeks at
least to mobilize the militia tor service.
The disposition of some officials close to the Presi
dent is tu keep the troops in Mexico. It is admitted that
circumstances, principally, of a military character, may
force a withdrawal . Never before has the American army
appeared so small.
President Wilson, presumably because of the situ-
HOME
EDITION
PRICE ONE CENT.
Arredondo Expected
A
