HI 'lfl
w ' BIHh
1 1 Toda'''s MelaI p" nrifvivnIlrtfMO'il sTftftt nfn 1 4 p. m. city edition I
i jrSSrw IJWJUvJtHiviUi!aiiJ tweve PAGES 1
East St. Louis delivery, S18.7519 25' JT 7 vAWNrtAAArtAVVWVSAw Kfl
8 copper, firm, electrolytic, $28 00 C ) 4 J WEATHER Utah: Fair Tonight iH
? $29.00. ' -uuS V - and Friday; Frost Tonight In West iH
1 : FEARLESS, . INDEPENDENT, PROGRESSIVE NEWSPAPER. : J
Forty-sixth Year-No. 89. Price Five Cents. OGDEN CITY, UTAH, THURSDAY EVENING, APRIL 13, 1916. Entered as Second Class Matter at the Postoffice. Ogdon, Utah. !H
& m ' . . . Hi
I Mexicans Fire on U. S. Cavalry at Parral I
i
j " Killing Many and Wounding Others I
j . - .
Carranza Demands Withdrawal of U. S. Troops I
CARKANZA WARNS UNITED STATES
! OF DANGERS OF AROUSING NATIVES
I
De Facto Troops Aid Americans in Restoring Order in Town
;J of Parral Many Deaths Occur U. S. Cavalry Will
, Remain at Present and Continue Chase
of Villa Bandits.
I
;j Washington, April 1 3. The first loss of American lives
?f in the American punitive expedition in Mexico occurred in the
" firing on the American troops at Parral. Official advices re
5 ceived here today say that Mexican civilians fired into the
) troops, killing one American and wounding another. The
"j troops replied, killing many. Carranza troops did not fire on
I the Americans, but assisted in restoring order.
:i The advices say that when the American troops entered
ii the local commander recalled the American assurances that
, ' they would not pass through towns. The firing started by ex
it cited civilians. The situation quieted but later another clash
between American troops and civilians occurred in which
;i there were more deaths among the Mexicans.
!! In a battle in Parral between American troops and the
I civilian population last night, Gen. Carranza telegraphed his
embassy today:
"Many deaths occurred on both sides. Carranza troops
aided the Americans in attempting to restore order. General
Carranza has applied to the United States to recognize the dan-
i gers of arousing the natives.
A dispatch from General Carranza himself follows :
, "After message sent you by Secretary for Foreign. Af-
!? fairs Aguilar, the secretary of war received a message from
J General Gutierrez dated Chihuahua, informing him that it
' had been impossible for military commanders to check the mob
against American troops who entered Parral and that this even
is 'j ing (April 12) the fight had continued between our people
! j and the American forces; that many deaths had occurred on
I J both sides." I
I j (Continued on Page Seven)
Ii Washington, April 13. General Car-
, ranza's note proposing withdrawal of
P American troops from Mexico was de
ll J llvered to Secretary Lansing by
$ ' Eleslo Arredondo, his ambassador,
f this afternoon.
i '
, There was apparent an agreement
3 among officials that the troops could
i : remain for the present, but that from
B i a diplomatic standpoint it might
K ) Beem advisable not to risk local
I i clashes with Carranza forces during
f, ' negotiations. Moreover, It was said
i military prudence would necessitate
fc ; holding the advance columns close to
t supporting forces until the attitude
j; - of the Mexican troops about them
f i was definitely known. It was also
. ' Increasingly evident today that the
war department has endeavored to
", ) provide against possibilities, although
strictest secrecy has been observed.
L ' It is understood that the war depart-
j ment is prepared to back up the
-j f forces should the need ariso.
'? j Some officials privately expressed
i the view that General Carranza might
Ji ? have felt compelled to propose the
withdrawal of troops in deference to
" ' public sentiment In Mexico. It seemed
& , likely today that a more. or less pro-
, ; longed diplomatic discussion was forc-
; shadowed.
e '., Washington, April 13. Late today
4 - Secretary Lansing said the Carranza
note gave evidence that there was
6ome misunderstanding In Mexico.
; ' Some of its statements as outlined did
r. not agree with the secretary's recol
C: lection of the preliminary negotiations.
He said the United States recognized
the right of Mexico to ask the with
drawal of the troops, but that the
government considered that the agree
!, ment under which they entered still
' was In force.
-
J . Washington, April 13.-General
.? Carranza's proposal for the wlthdraw-
Ji al of American troops from Mexico
J failed to bring from administration
Eources todav any Indication that tno
S troops would bo withdrawn lmme-
5 : diatcly, or that the situation was ox-
y , Pected to result in any serious fric-
3 t Uon with the do facto government
!ln Mexico. , ... -,
The note, which arrived at the car-
I ranza embassy early in the da , was
: Prepared for delivery to Secreton
Lansing l?y Blisco Arredondo, General
Carranza's ambassador.
!' Development Not Unexpected.
, The development, not unexpected,
f vas received in congress with diver
." : l gent vie ats but a f general undertone ol
P -1 caution and a disposition to locate the
i - i BltuaUon in ItB present stage to the
administration, prevailed.
.'mIa.htratlon officials, however
1 made no effort to conceal theii leei
J ing that Carranza's action might to
' J crease the delicacy of the clrcum
ii dances under which tho pursuit oi
- 1' Villa has been conducted.
j i. The outstanding Xeaturoa of th(
m -' '
M
situation give evidences that the ex
pedition has been carried on with a
full realization that objections might
arist', that possibilities have been con
sidered and probably a decision has
been reached as to what steps would
be taken.
Some state department officials
confessed that General Carranza's
noto was not a surprise.
Counsellor Polk confirmed the
statement in the note that when he
asked for ubo of the Mexican rail
ways the reply was "satisfactory" but
was coupled with an expression of
surprise that tho United States had
not awaited final approval of the
pending protocol before sending
troops across the border.
U was declared officially, however,
that no formal protest against the
entry of General Pershlng'B columns
had been made previously by Goneral
Carranza. When the advance troops
crossed at Columbus, it was officially
stated, a Carranza general met them
at the border and made no protest
, either personally, or on behalf of his
government.
Negotiations to Open.
State department officials took the
view that General Carranza's note
was not a demand for Immediate
withdrawal of the forces, but an lmi
tatiou to begin negotiations to limit
thCounsaeTior Polk conferred with
General Scott, chief of staff, and an
nounced that negotiations would be
handled exclusively by Secretary Lan-
8lngCarranza Raises Side iBiueB.
ltbough General Carranza raised
side issues, administration officials
bearded the principal contention aB
S that the object of the punitive
expedition has been accomplished ho
far as it can bo, and that the Villa
hands have been dispersed.
War department officials take the
view that tbey have no evidence that
ol?. Villa bands have been dispersed,
because thev never had definite in
occauso i no j number and that
Tniiut SBiiaon gives
no Sence that the raiders have
been exterminated.
Dispatch of Troops JusW,ed- a
. The dispatch of the Punitive expe
dition before negotiation of the pro-
Vas characterized by state de
nrtment officials "as perfect y juBtl
flcdbv the correspondence between
Secretarv Lansing and the Carranza
' gCuSan Stone, of the senate for-
; and communicated with the btate
d1?naToern Galllnger. Republican lead
: cr said he regarded the Mexican sit-
nation in such condition that con
I "J"bb sfiuld be consulted on the fu
f s'ecry Lansing took the view
J that there was absolutely nothing for
him to discuss. He said he had not
yet received a note or communication
from General Carranza and therefore
had no comment upon it.
After a conference with Secretary
Lansing, Chairman Flood of the house
foreign affairs committee, said he
saw no necessity for congressional
action as the situation now stood.
Borah Counsels Caution.
Senator Borah, Republican, who
has been a foremost advocate of
forceful action in Mexico, counselled
prudence of speech In congress In
discussing the late developments.
"It would bo unwise for congress
to fan any flame until some definite
course is determined," he said.
Mexican Officials Not Surprised.
El Paso, Texas, April 13. Mexican
officials here evinced no surprise over
the news today that Provisional Presi
dent Carranza had asked that the
United States withdraw the American
troops In Mexico.
Andres Garcia, Mexican consul In
El Paso, and Chief representative of
the de facto government on the bor
der, said he felt that the United States
would receive tho note in tho same
fair and friendly spirit in which it
was sent
Mr. Garcia pointed out that under
the orders to General Funston the
American troops should retire from
Mexico when tho Villa bands were dis
persed, or when the forces of the de
facto government were in position to
take over the pursuit of the Villistas
Thp Mexican consul said that the
Vlllista bands were now scattered
broadcast and that the Carranza
troops, heavily reinforced, could easily
effect their further destruction. Mr
Garcia added that he did not believe
that Villa was dead, but he was con
vinced that the bandit's power was
broken and could never be restored.
El Paso and Juarez Calm.
El Paso and Juarez took tho news of
Carranza's request calmly, but expect
antly, realizing that the nextWord
must come from Washington. Army
officers did not care to discuss the
situation but Indicated that tho chase
of the Villistas would continue until
orders had been received from Wash
ington calling it to a halt.
Should the troops be recalled, It is
though that It will require from three
to four weeks to bring the last Araerl
I can soldier to this side of the border
I Consul Garcia Intimated that the de
facto government would consent to
the use of the Mexican railroads for
the withdrawal of troops. If the rail
ways were used, the troops could bo
taken out in about a week
General Dell has repeatedly given
assurances that should any excitement
or trouble arise over the development
of the diplomatic phases between the
United States and Mexico, tho army
is amply prepared to meet the situa
tion along the border.
Border Awaits U. S. Answer.
El Paso, Tex., April 13. The bor
der awaited with expectancy today
tho answer of the American govern
ment to General Carranza's proposal
regarding the withdrawal of the
American expeditionary force from
Mexico.
In El Paso all was calm outwardly.
Nevertheless there was an undercur
rent of emotion, for on all sides it
was pointed out the situation Is
fraught with many possibilities all
along the international boundary
If the government responds favor-,
ably to the proposal of tho de facto
government, the brief but exciting
epoch of the past few weeks will
have passed but if Washington main
tains that the purposes of General
Pershing's expedition have not been
accomplished a new period of anxiety
will ensue.
Mexican Troops Near Line.
In El Paso and every other city
and town along the border a largo
proportion of the population Is Mexi
can and opposite each place generally
lies a Mexican city, garrisoned by
Carranza troops.
Reports of the massing of de facto
troops in northern Chihuahua have
been prevalent for weeks.
Nineteen Thousand Men Watching.
The military and civil authorities
have been preparing for weeks
against all contingencies. The nine
teen thousand army men scattered
along the border from Brownsville,
Texas, to San Diego, Calif., have
been kept constantly on edge. Tho
police officials are always on the
lookout for outbreaks, to nip In the
bud incipient disturbances that might
develop into embarrassing troubles.
Everything possible has been done
to eafeguard tho American side of
the Rio Grande.
In El Paso, General George Bell,
Jr., commanding the base, has ne
glected no precaution to preserve
American lives and property in any
rltuatlon that may arise.
Troops In Mobile Conditions.
Thero are reported to bo In the
neighborhood of 3000 troops stationed
at Fort Bliss. These have been main
tallied In a mobile condition.
Juarez, facing El Paso from across
the Rio Grande, has a Carranza garri
son, the exact size of which Is not
known. It has a number of machine
guns and some cannon.
It is known hero that preparations
have been made to meet any sltua
Itlon that may arise in Juarez.
I Larudo, Presidio and BrownavlUo
in Texas, Columbus in New Mexico,
Douglas in Arizona, San Diego In Cal
ifornia, and all the lesser towns of
tho border also have taken precau
tious for defense.
Situation Will Broaden.
Each step has been made, of course,
expecting to meet possibilities not
probabilities. It Is pointed out
among officials horo, however, that
after the presentation of tho Carran
za note the situation will be broad
ened. Army officers declared that in their
opinion General Carranza could not
have presented his noto to Washing
ton without having made military
preparations In keeping with the exl
goncier of the situation. Reports,
therefore, that the de facto troops
wero In position where they could cut
tho lino of communications establish
ed by General Pershing, were receiv
ed as truth
Pershing Protects Lines.
There is no great concern rero for
the ultimate fate of General Persh
ing's force. It Is not believed that
tho safety of the American columns
has been Jeopardized In the hot pur
suit of Villa. While advanced de
tachments under Colonels Dodd and
Brown have penetrated almost to the
Durango border, more than 400 miles
south of El Paso, these aro known
to have remained in touch with the
advanced field base at Satevo, and
to have received large quantities of
supplies near Parral.
For some time tho motor supply
train operating from Columbus has
been strained to the utmost to get ra
tions and forage to the front to last
the troops for some time. It Is be
lieved now that all this has been
done in preparation for such a situa
tion as has now arisen.
San Antonio, Tex., April 13. Until
General Funston receives orders from
Washington, no change will be made
in the conduct of the ' campaign
against Francisco Villa. It was un
derstood that unofficial Information
of Carranza's request, but unaccom
panied by any orders, was sent to
I General Pershing today. On account
of the general's location far at the
fiont it was believed improbable that
he would receive it before tonight or
tomorrow.
Anxiety at Border.
Anxiety that has been manifest at
headquarters here for two days be
cause of tho movements of the do
fncto government troops in northern
Mexico was more evident today. No
additional information concerning the
positions of troops along the Sonora
Chlhuahua state line was received,
but that already at hand indicated
that In tho event of open conflict be
tween the government forces and
those of General Pershing, troops
from Sonora In such a position as to
be a menace to tho American line of
communications.
The skirmish yesterday at Parral
was not regarded as serious by mili
tary men here, excepting the fact
that It was almost coincident with
the announcement of Carranza that
the further presence of Americans in
Mexico was undesirable. It was be
lieved probable that every command
ing officer in northern Mexico al
ready has been apprised to the Inten
tion of the government at Queretaro
and that the encounter at Parral
might make tho relations between tho
de facto troops and the American
forces strained.
Little Known of Trouble.
Little was known here of the trou
ble at Parral. General Guterrlez re
ported to Consul Letcher at Chihua
hua, saying the American force had
marched Into Parral and the populace
and garrison had met thorn with a
nflo fire that was returned by the
Americans. The reports characterized
It as an "exchange of shots," and
made no mention of casualties.
General Funston assumed that the
detachment of Americans was a force
of 140 mon of the Thirteenth cavalry
that Is operating in that territory un
der Major Tompkins. He discredited
the suggestion that the officer com
manding the American force had any
intention of occupying Parral and be
lieved it likely he had intended mere
ly to march his men through the
city.
WILSON CANCELS
ALL ENGAGEMENTS
Pressing Situations With Ger
many and Mexico Cause
Abandonment of All
Other Plans.
Washington, April 13. In view of
the pressing nature of the situations
with Germany and Mexico, President
Wilson today abandoned his plans to
go to New York tomorrow night and
cancelled his engagement to speak be
fore the Young Men's Democratic
club hero Saturday.
The affidavits from Paris and Lon
don expected today on the liner St.
Paul, will be considered In connec
tion with the German note and the
"information" regarding attacks on
merchant vessels since the Lusltania
disaster is expected to be completed
in tirao to go to Berlin within the
noxt week.
Postlve Evidence of Good Faith
Demanded.
While the entire plans of the ad
ministration are not being disclosed,
it is understood that nothing leBS
than some positive evidence of Ger
many's good faith to fulfill the as
surances she has given the United
States, such as possibly, substantial
punishment of the submarine com
mander who sunk the Sussex can pre
vent the situation between the two
countries from coming to a pass
which diplomats have struggled for
the last year to avoid.
In view of the conclusive nature of
the information on the Sussex already
before the state department, officials
cannot see how Germany can con
tinue to deny responsibility for the
destruction of the ship.
American Will Not Arbitrate.
The suggestion of arbitration In the
German note was met with the state
ment that the American government
would not arbitrate a question In
volving American lives.
Careful examination of tho German
note led officials to conclude that the
case of the United States had been
materially strengthened. The simi
larity between the circumstances sur
rounding the attack on a steamer in
the English channel, admitted in the
German note, and those surrounding
the Sussex case, caused officials to
feel there no longer is ary doubt that
the vessel was the Sussex.
Attention was called to the fact
that in her note Germany by Infer
ence admits that it is just as illegal
to torpedo freight ships as It Is to tor
pedo passenger steamers. The Ber
lin government recites what it
claims to be tho circumstances of the
attacks on at least three non-passen-ger-carrylng
ships and says interna
tional law was observed, warning
members of the crew which afforded
them an opportunity of leaving the
vessel safely.
The note urges tho contention of as
surances given in the LuBltanla and
Arabic cases referred only to passenger-carrying
vessels.
Military Operations Hindered.
Berlin, April 13, via London, April
14, 10 p. m. The war office today
issued tho following statement:
"Western front: Weather condi
tions being unfavorable for observa
tions, generally hindered military op
erations through the greater part of
the front.
"On tho slope southeast of Verdun,
tho artillery was active.
"Southeast of Albert, In the Arras
region, a German patrol captured 17
prisoners In a British trench.
"A French gas attack In the vicin
ity of Puisaleelne, northeast of Com
peigne, was without effect.
"Eastern front: South of Nnrocz
lake the artillery fire increased ap
preciably yesterday afternoon. At
tacks by detachments of the enemy
east of Baranovichi, were driven
back by our advanced posts."
Sussex Was Torpedoed.
Paris, April 13, 4:55 p. m. Semi
official announcement was made
hero today that the French govern
ment has documentary evidence that
the Sussex was attacked by a subma
rine. The statement which was given out
after the receipt here of the German
noto to the United States, is as fol
lows: "It suffices, in order to answer the
German note, to recall that fragments
of a torpedo have been discovered in
the hull of the Sussex and that tho
French- government is In possession
of documents which give the name
of the commander and tho number
of the submarine which damaged the
Sussex."
The further statement is mado from
the same source that French' and
British warships sank a German sub
marine on April 5, after taking pris
oner the officers and chew of the sub
marine. It Is stated the prisoners now
fully confirm Information in tho pos
session of the French government con
cerning the name of the commander
and the number of tho submarine
which Is said to have torpedoed the
Sussex.
Tho French ministry of marine an
nounced on April 5 that a German
submarine had been sunk by French
and British warships.
German Note Amazing.
London. April 13, 12:50 p. m. Al
though all tho Loudon evening papers
print the German reply to the United
States on submarine warfare under
Buch heads as "Vain Endeavor to Gull
American Public," "Amazing Amer
ican Noto," and "Berlin Eats Its Own
Words," tho Westminster Gazette Is
the only ono to comment on the note.
It says:
"Wo don't know whether the Gor
mans believe that hard-headed Amer
icans will take seriously explanations
so childish. If ho, we fancy they
have douo less than Justice to tho
American nation."
X
ATTACK ON VERDUN SUBSIDES; I
GUNS AND MEN BEING BROUGHT DP I
' " I
Attempt to Force Passage Between Dead Man's Hill and I
Cumieres Fails French Still Holding Main Positions I
Results Decidedly to Advantage of Defenders
Spirited Fighting on Between Russians and I
Germans at Various Points Russian
Sailing Vessel Is Torpedoed in ' Q
Mediterranean Sea,
London, April 13, 3:50 p. m. The British steamship ; '
Angus is reported by Lloyds to have been torpedoed on Tues- j
day. She was unarmed.
There are two British steamships Angus. The larger,
which is probably the one referred to, was last reported on her '
arrival at Suez, on March 1 7, on a voyage from Calcutta for !
Bilbao. Her gross tonnage was 3,61 9. She was built fnfl 904
and owned in Dundee. " ,
Paris, April 13, 11:53 a. m. Calm
prevailed in the whole region of Ver
dun last night, this morning's offi
cial report says. Preparation was
made by tho Germans for an attack
on Hill No. 304, but the attack was
prevented by the French from being
carried Into effect. No other import
ant developments were reported at
the front.
The statement follows:
"The night passed quietly In all
Verdun region. A German attack on
Hill 305 did not pass the trenches.
Tho curtains of fire maiatalned by
our artillery and the bombardment
from our batteries in a neighboring
sector directed against tho enemy as
sembled In the wood of Malancourt,
apparently put an end to this ma
neuver. "There has been no other event of
importance on the rest of the front,"
The attack on Verdun has subsided
for the moment, after several days of
particularly severe fighting. There
were no engagements of importance
in that region last night.
The German effort, since the gen
eral Verdun offensive was begun Sun
day has been to attempt to force a
passage between Dead Man's Hill and
Cumieres for the purpose of envelop
ing the hill. Some French trenches
In this vicinity were carried, but the
main positions of tho defenders were
held and Paris views tho operations
of the week aB having resulted decid
edly to the advantage of the French.
On the western front Russian at
tacks have not seriously shaken the
German lines and although spirited
fighting is still In progress at various
points, the offensive movement ap
parently Is subsiding.
The Russian sailing vassal Imporat
or on a voyage from Gulfport Miss.,
for Marseilles, has been torpedoed In
the Mediterranean. Nino of the crow,
some of them wounded, has been land
ed at Barcelona
Russian Vessel Torpedoed.
Barcelona, April 13, via Paris, 5:15
a. m. The Russian sailing vessel Im
parator has been torpedoed by an
Austrian submarine in tho Mediter
ranean. Nino of tho crew, some of
whom are wounded, have been land
ed hero by a Dutch steamship.
Austrian Royalty Pleads For Peace.
Paris, April 13, 5:10 a. m. Sixteen
members of the Austrian Imperial fam
ily, Including Archduchess ZIta, wife
of Archduke Charles Francis, heir to
the throne, Archduchess Maria Thcr
ese, wife of Archduke Karl Stephen
and Archduess Leopold Salvator, with
seven sons, took part In a pilgrimage,
headed by Cardinal Eltfl, archbishop
of Vienna, to the sanctuary of the
Madonna of Zell, to Implore peace, ac
cording to a dispatch from Rome.
Washington, April 13. State depart
ment dispatches say there was "somo
trouble" at Parral In which Mexican
olvillans fired on American troops
passing -through the streets. The of
ficial advices declare, however, that
Carranza troops were not concerned.
San Francisco, April 13. Franz
Bopp, consul-general of Germany here,
and four others pleaded not guilty to
day in the United States district court
to indictments in cases of neutrality
violation.
' Paris, April 12, 11:15 p. m Tho
Gorman general drive on tho left bank
of the Mouse which began on Sunday,
is regarded as having been beaten and
the Germans have reverted to the
previous relatively small alternato
strokes against the French poBitlous
on both sides of tho river and to ar
tillery operations. When the remain
ing French projections along Forges
broow had been straightened out the
Germans wero able to engage tho
principal line west of the river, from
Avocourt by Hill No. 304 and Dead
Man's Hill to Oumleros.
1 ' 9 I
Only frontal attacks under dlfflcul-
ties were possible, except at Dead !
Man's Hill where the Germans wore I '
able to attack through the ravine3. j
They tried to force a passage between !
Oead Man's Hill and Cumieres and to '
work around the south of the hill in
order to envelop it After two days
of hard fighting this maneuver and i
with it the main idea of that particu
lar German attack It Is believed to
have collapsed. The small gain which
the Germans mado -northeast of the
hJll Is not counting much for them.
Lull on Verdun Front.
Paris, April 13, 5:45 a. m. Another '
lull has fallen on tho Verdun battle- i
field as the GermanB have been oblig
ed to pause in order to fill up the 1
gaps in their ranks, to replace dam-
aged guns and to bring up munitions
preparatory to further onslaughts. It '
Is believed that the French command
is not likely to- modify its methods.
General Petaln Is said to be aulte sat
isfied as long as the Germans go on !
losing three times as many men as
the French In unimportant results, as
ho know's that ho has ample reserves
to press a counter-attack on a large
scale when the opportune time comes, '
and stocks of ammunition which are ; '
practically inexhauslble. I
Since the first months of the war
the output of three-Inch shells In ;
France increased 33 1-2 times, of j
larger shells 44 times. Twenty three j j
times as many 75 millimeter guns are
being mado as In August 1914 and the ,
manufacture of heavy guns is increas ,'
ed In the same ratio.
i
London, April 13, 2:30 p. m. Tho
Dutch steamship Colombia, from i i
Baltimore March 23 for Amsterdam, j
put Into Gravesend today, having
been damaged by striking a mine in
the English channel yesterday.
nn
WAR ASPECTS
UPSET STOCKS
Liquidation in All Parts of
Market Mexican Issues, ;
Particularly Petroleum j !
American Smelt- ; 1
ing Drop.
New York, April 13. Stocks were"
visibly disturbed today over the lat
est aspects of the International situa
tion. For the first time in several
weeks liquidation was seen in all
parts of the markeL Mexican Issues,
particularly Petroleum and American
Smelting were among tho first to jj
yield, those stocks declining 2 to 4
points before midday. Later the mu- 8
nltlons group and similar specialties
began to lose ground. Weakness of i
United States Steel was steadily 8
pressed for sale, falling 1 5-8 to 82 H
1-2 In tho early afternoon. Foreign 1
exchange on France and Russia show- (
ed weakness. j
The more acute phase In this coun- I
try's relations with Germany and
Moxlco nccountod almost wholly for j
tho tone of today's feverishly active
market.
'
nu I 1
MILLES ORGANIZE : j
AN EXCHANGE I
Kansas City, Mo.. April 13. Eighty !
millers from the states of Missouri,
KanBas and Oklahoma, organized the
Millers Exchange here tonight.
The exchange will servo largely as I
a protective movement among tho rail-
lera to enforce contracts. Millers J
from Minnesota and Nebraska attend-
ed the meeting.
Am
