The Citizen
Devoted to ttie Interests of tlie oianteLln Fecrple.
IZVJZA fVZLSZHuiC CO.
WM. a ntOST. UlttmCU.I
c H wnrrmuicui. m jit tm
Knowledge ! pnrw-i4 tto
way to keep ua with aaastw
knowledge it U read feed
newspaper.
F. O.BOWMAN.
tmimtt ef W fmt-tfm mt ttrm, g.. ef iwM
vol. xvn.
Fiva Onta a Opr.
BEREA, MADISON COUNTY. KENTUCKY, APRIL 13. 19l.
On Dollar Year.
No. 42.
Why Not Booit Our Town ?
The exemplary boosting campaign as carried out by
the business men of Knoxville in their visitation of more
than forty-three towns in four days in their special train
only demonstrates what men can do when they get
together. It is hoped that every town in their itinerary,
and especially our town, may take on new life and
enthusiasm and get together as they have never before.
We must be able to see the good that is in our town,
the possibilities that lay before us, and get the habit of
pulling together.
' It is certainly gratifying to note improvement within
the past year since the organization of our Civic League
which stands for getting together, cleaning up, and mak
ing Berea a beauty spot on the Great Dixie Highway.
UNCONDITIONAL SURRENDER TO
GOD
Not Ion ago good man defined
conversion ai "unconditional sur
render to God." The definition may
have tome advantages, but it if not
a (food one. God doe not seek sur
render, but cooperation. If all God
wanted was to have His own way,
He eould hava had it by not matin
man at all. Since He has man on
His hands he must do the bent He
ran under the circumstance.
There was a Sunday school story
told some fifty years ago In which
a Scotch mother made a large and J must bear in mind that during of ,h, Kpnturkv IjeBl(l,BtllM lg one
fragrant cake and set it on the low-, the campaign of 1912 the attention (1og (nat , con
r shelf of the cupboard, and went f the people .was directed wholly I v(rlio f boo,, .na be t fel.
away for tha,day, leaving her small questions of domestic policy; no piinishaWe by Wm in lne
boy. Donald, whom she told not to thought of foreign war clouded our prnil,ntiiry of from te lw0
eat the cake. She was late In rw.hnrlnn. Congress addressed itself 1
turning, and Donald became very, to immediate revision downward ,ninous wte ,n tf)e Hwi( ind on,
hungry. Repeatedly he went to the of the existing dutm" Promised diMOnting vole ln tn(, gfe.
cupboard and smelted the cake and In the Democratic platform. Until EtUJj HiT Coo4 Rotdi
wished for it so much, but obeyed the war changed every condition,' Balj
Ms mother. .On her return she figures show that as a revenue pro- a meeting was called at the Court
praised him for his obedience, and ducer the new system was a auccess. h)UM ,n Irvn(, for Apri, ,n
made him som, porridge tor aup-In regard to the trusts, we must ad- ,nU.rest( of tn), prob1pm now
per. He asked when he was to have mit that Mr. llson and bis party rnfrontin(r tnat coun(y, The E8UI,
the cake, and she told him the cake hvn performed all that they prom- Rnads As8m.jafion ,nd
contained poison for the rats. ised. In fact, in every essential re- lhe TM m Fi(,ral wpre the In-
This story deeply Impressed the spect regarding :our domestic policy. of lhl, c.ed meeting. The
present writer In his childhood, and they have fuiniled their promises majn bjprt of ,ne mwUng ,9 to de.
made him fee the value of obedl- In a manner most unusual in Hir u.Pinlne courM pur8ue In
ence, wMch the story was intended pol it iral history. ord,.r provi(le tler rMds tor the
to convey to the 8unday 8choo Let us consider his foreign policy. f0,m(y .y cjuzen Ja exppclnl to
r!?.t,.v,mrLD',1iilJ,W'm: ,r'!nd ,"r r'alnn w'th lher be present and to take part in this
ed a little hard that Donald, after all countries in a most unsatisfactory imporfat matter
his self restraint got only por- condition. The "dollar diplomacy."i jB(J. jamti p" Adams Fsarlass
ridge Viewed from the standpoint which had been carried very far At the opening 'session of the Cir-
of the present, the writer knows by the previous administration,1,.,, c.omt at Jackson, Breathitt
that no mother should have done brought disrespect and lack of con- Qmntv in bitter and fearless terms
what Raid's mother did; sh. ndence on the part of the nations ar. dj(, Jm p Adam8 dpnounred
annum liftv fnM rWnoM Inal ftiap fnpflAn Xlia inirla apt nr ahnnHnnlni? ... .....
. " ' , . . '
was poison the cake and then
should hs.ve locked it up J
it wt-iii B"mt-nmfn an 11 yum imu i
set the rat poison of life on a very
'IT,,10". "u1.nd P'"""1' HI"
,1111.11.11 i., n-i vrry mmnry anu
long i or u. urn u so mere is a
belter reason than the teaching of
"unconditional surrender" to His
will. There is no way in which
Ood can reveal His will to us except
tiiiinipiii iir iiM'iiiuin i inn iiuinnii
reason; Ihere is no way in which
we can test how reasonable the
will of Ood Is except through our,
own reason.
This Is more than "unconditional
surrender."
When the Civil War ended. Oen-
erals Joseph Wheeler and Fill Hugh
I.ce surrendered to the Federal gov-
c m .A 1 n..i . 1.
r. rui,. ct mi. hi . iuiv mry
might still have been very undesir- matter bow. Mr. NN-ilson. presi- , ,hp bopdPr 8d ,ik , w, -able
citizens. When the Spanish- dent of them all. said "I canno in.,(p jn o(, Mjro jn ay8h(,rt;
n.,.. r,.-. w.r nn... oui. uiey k.,
fought under the Stars and I Stripes.
Tha was s.neh,ng more than un-
cond.tional surrender. CkI wants
soldiers, not prisoner, of war.
COnTElfTS I
PAGE 1.
Elitorial: Why not Boost
Our Town? President Wilson's
l.l..,:nl.ni:.in f 1:1
b rro l I r , ' "
on t in' tr rail wwil
State.
States
8laU Now. ITnitoO
lixm U'.nl I V I
FAGE 5. Local News Items.
PAGE I. Mountain
Agriculture:
Liquid Manure; Phosphates;
Disposal of Dead Animals.
Cincinnati Markets. Govern,
meiit Crop lleport. flood High
ways anil Farmers. Home De
partment: Timely Recipes. For
the Children. The Humble
Bean.
PAGE 7. International Sunday
School Lesson. Who Is Who on
the Trade Trip Special. Berea
Visit a Great Success Movinit
Picture Jim.
PAGE I. Kast Kentucky News Let-
ters.
' -".". -ays. wouni ioK ere uns, nave pj,v a(tt Sunday PVening .Professor
PAGE 3. Departmental Columns. plunged us into at least one war had.javop jg a nia(eri wjtn (ne niaster
IifM'tor Mrltrien's Address to he been in the place of Mr. Wilson. 'touch, and his recitals are events.
Normal Studenls.-Tlie Confer- The beautiul. rich chords vibrating
ence of Mountain Workers at The "New Berea" lot sale adver-iu the memory throughout the after
Knoxville. Itised on page 5 will give you an idea years. The Quartette was a wonder-
PAGE S. Serial: The Forester's of lhe rapid growth of the town. ful addition and the members show
Duughter. Story: A Find on the With the new passenger depot soon,ed Hie power of natural ability and
Bench.' i to be built will make this an at- ,truining. The commodious building
PAGE 4. Locals. tractive residence place. Watch was taxed to its capacity bv a de-
PRESIDENT WILSONS ADMINLS
TRATION
The people of the United States
will be called upon within a few
months to choose a President Ex
traordinary conditions exist here
?h Wk" a r0ad tnd W" "T ,l
the head of our rovernment as
much wisdom, courage and charac
ter as it is possible to secure. In
view of this the (uestkn arises
whether there Is any good reason
for displacing our Chief Magistrate
when we consider how well he has
d""" work-
' : ,, ,. , '
he "dollar diplomacy" did much to
improve our foreign relations.
mwrvrr nir limn ny wiiirn inr
vailed in Mexico when President
Taft retired presented a much more
K-rinin iriiifin. i wo iu-' m mr.
t iison a policy nave neen crmciseu.i
Namely the non-recognition of
Huerla and the landing of our
troops at Vera Crui. In spite of
seeming error two great results
unvn n' 11 armevpti; wmi
Mexico and restored good feeling
with South America,
It is hoped that this good feeling
may be further assured by the rati-
flralion of the treaty with Colombia
over which the Senate now haggles.
The hulk of the American people
favor the Allies and for the best of
reasons. There are enthusiasts for
t. i . . 1 1 J
,.ai-r w mi wiiiiia fnu me war ihi
,u, in me reckless p easure oi ex-
prBin(, my own opinions and
judices." We have every reason to
be grealful that his and not a less
tendy han.l has steered the sh.p of
ni oir run .!, inn mnii.i aim im-
j lakes are not more than any man
must commit who fills his great of-
flee. Whom can we trust morel
safely? Certainly not the hitler
, .; .
rriucwnose i ire.essinvernve spares
ekZnerf
recklessness, if he means what he
lt
is atl 1
Ibeir big ad next week and make
.'""rseir conspicuous ny
being at
i ne suie.
The list of prizes offered by the
Committee of Beauty and Sanitation ,
l appears in this issue. Boys and
i girls reud it, take courage and go in.
to the campaign to win.
Many are enjoying our serial "The
Forester's Daughter." Are you?
Our readers have expressed them-
selves in annreciativ terms mis.
live to the story of The Civil War"
by J. W. VanWinkle. Look out for
another chapter next week.
III OUR OVN STATE
. i
Immediate organisation of the Tax
Commission is expected following a
conference Wednesday with Gover
nor Stanley. All the members of the
commission were in Frankfort;
The State's right to levy assess
ment against the authorized capital
of a corporation, all of whose prop
erty and business is in Kentucky, Is
to be decided by ruling in a case
submitted on briefs to Judge Robert
I.. Stout in Franklin Circuit Court
last Friday.
I
S. H. Thorps Assists In Moonshine
Raid
Deputy Collector Thorpe of Rich
mond recently look part In a- lively
raid on a "Moonshiners' still" on
Crnkg Cmk , n
resulted in a considerable fight.
None of the posse of men who made
the raid were hurt, but Wash Gar
wtt. a notorious moonshiner, was
L;ii.i n. a J.
never allow himself to be taken alive
by revenue men. Officers had been
on the lookout for him for several
years.
Bootlegging a Felony
It will be remembered that amomr
the bills passed at the recent session
... .. . . . .....
the illegal saleorwniskyinUreatnilli
- )(,fIarp(1 ,hat the lraff,c
mst stop now and that he would not
cease until not a drop of whiskey!
could be secured in the counly. In
ni(, fhrw, to (h(, jury h;
f,,rrP(j jo lhe former elections in
which ballot boxcg had been stolen
and burned and demanded them to
begin to clean up election crooked
ness in Breathitt County, and inti
nM that ,f thj 0rand Jury dJd
not properly discharge its duty oth
er men were available.
Breathitt Boy Off to Mexico
Alex H. Smith, who has been vis
iting his mother. Mrs. M. Forbes for
(ini, ,ofl jum,day ' on the ten!
trajn fr port pjs(, Tox wnpre I
',... ainti,!aA 'u, cm:iJ
will report to Fort Bliss but will
join his company wherever it may
ho in these tronhliM limoa lie u-ill
(, jn (J,,.,,,, troubled times
,jm Smiln is on hjs flftn enIjR,.
pre-!nnt and wi ,jko, , t,,p 8or.
vire lln(j, hp t ha ,
n,m,0p of kinBfo,k and n
r,.a,ujtt county and The Times will
gladly publish any news he may send
u op any )lMprs to hjs r,.,ativeg and
:,., i0.b. T!r.u,.
....
Professor Taylor of Berea College,
tsgi8tod fcy the Ma,e QuarMt(( of
institution, gave an organ re.
pjla, jn thp christian Church in this!
,iKhted and appreciative audience.
Richmond Panlagraph.
All teachers should read the Nor-
ul column this week and next
and gel the benefit of Doctor MiBri-
en's lecture.
Filial Fondnase.
"What la In the mall from daugh
tor?" asked mother, eagerly. "A thou
sand kisses. answered father, grimly,
"and sixteen handkerchiefs, two waists
and four batches of ribbons for you to
wash and me.:4-u Kansas City Jour-
u, s, riEVs
Financial assistance toward the es
tablishment of a church of any de
nomination in the Colorado miping
camps has been promised by John
D Rockefeller, Jr.
i - -
. The annual Rivers and Harbors Ap
propriation Bill, carrying $40,000,
000, passed the House Tuesday by a
vote of 210 to 133, with every item
as agreed on in committee unchang
ed. ' An amendment providing for seventy-five
hours of vocational in
struction for United States soldiers
in time of peace was added to the
Army Increase Bill by the Senate
Friday.
The 45,000 persons on the grounds
of the Panama California Interna
tional Exposition, Dedication Day,
March 18, were given a hint of the
feeling that must be experienced
by Europeans when a company of
hostile aeroplanes fly overhead. Six
government aeroplanes, piloted by
aviation record holders, appeared
over the Exposition grounds during
the afternoon in military formation
i circling the grounds sev-
'r1 times, dropped baskets of small
I tnrtm '
American flags.
-1-
GERMANY DENIES
SIIIKIIIG SUSSEX
(
i
Evidence Tends to Show Ship
Wis Torpedoed.
SITUATION VERY SERIOUS
President Wilson Very Llksly Will
' Tak the-Issue - Centres Dip
lomatic Break Bstwssn Twe Oevsrn.
msnts Probably Will Follow.
Washington, April 11. Count von
Bernstorff communicated to Secretary
Lansing Germany's official disclaimer
of responsibility for the disaster to
the channel liner Susses. Despite the
Ttdence which the United States has
tendFog to show tha a sub-
marine attacked this ship. Germany
now considers the Incident closed.
The ambassador did not remain more
than Ave mlnutea at the state depart
ment Germany's official note, backed by a
determination not to yield to any
farther modification of submarine
warfare has at once made the issue
clean cut and well defined between
the two governments. Apparently
President Wilson must press his case
or drop It. Germany holds out no
promise of compromise. A distinct
feeling of reserve, punctuated by dis
appointed expressions of opinion.
mk, 1t"l of officials here,
Great pressure Is slready being exert-
upon the president to stand Arm
and see the matter through. Probably
no one knows what Is In the presi
dent's mind.
His advisers. Including Secretary
are In favor of basing the
Istratlon's attitude on the cumu
lative evidence of German submarine
attacks which have Jeopardised the
Uvea of Americans on the high seas,
and news comes from authoritative
sources that the likelihood of the
president's taklnj? It up with congress
Is not remote. This would be prelim
inary to a diplomatic break between
the two governments.
SOLDIERS WANT T0:CC
Boy. ,n M.ee M.a. P... For P.p..
and -M.kins"
Army Base, Colonla Dublan. Mexico
(by aeroplane to Columbus, N. M ).
April 11. The people of the United
States are breaking their necks to get
tobacco to the men ln the trenches In
Europe. Why not try to relieve the
strain here by sending tobacco and
papers and a few "Missouri meer
chaunis" to the men In Mexico.
I don't know whither or not the
censors will permit this suKKestion to
eo th-oirh. tut If they do, they will
bestow a les'ing 'svor upon the to
bacco conn mi"m soldiers and civi
lians, n' w In th land of the Monte
siimss (Censored by M. C. Shallenberger
side to General I'ersblnO.
PREPARE FOR CONVENTION
Indlana Dsmoerats Consider Planks
For Platform.
Washington, April 11. The Demo
cratic members of congress from In
diana are taking steps to assist In
starting the party off on the rluht foot
at the stsje convention to be held at
(Continued en Page rive)
VILLA DODGES
U.JJROOPS
Asserted Bandit Chief Is Btdly
Wounded.
MORE PLOTTERS ARRESTED
Mexicans, Charged With Plotting te
tart Another Revolution, Jailed at
El Paae by United States Authori
ties. El Paso, Texas, April 11. Pancho
Villa, who Is leading the American
army a chase through the mountains
of northern Mexico, was reported at
lade. Just over the Dgurango state
line, southeast of Parrel, and south
west of the city of Chihuahua. This
was the unconfirmed rumor about the
streets.
Every day rumors place Villa at
given localities as he proceeds south,
but nobody seems to know where the
rumors originate, hot they get wide
circulation and some credence.
The Information from General
Pershing's headquarters stated that
the American army continues Its pur
suit of the bandit leader and his men,
and that the work of the American ex
pedition Is proceeding satisfactorily.
The provision situation has been re
lieved to a Urge extent by the ship
ment of supplies over the railroad
from Juares In addition to those taken
by the trucks. Ten more ears of sup
plies went south from Juares eon
signed to private Individuals who will
sell them to the army.
General Berlanl, who commands the
Carransa troops In the region where
portions of the American army la op
erating arrived In Juares from his
headquarters at Madera. He said he
came for a conference with General
Gavin, the Juares commander. Gen.
Berlanl reported that one of his com
mands had fought with the VllllsUs
on Thursday last, and had badly de
feated the bandit band at San Fran
cisco De Tlorja. He said the VHlkrta
troops left behind a number of dead
and a considerable supply of anna.
He believed, he said, that Villa per
sonally la somewhere south of Parral,
as he received authentic reports Villa
was at Camargua only sixty miles
north of Parral.
He asserted that In addition to be
ing wounded. Villa la also suffering
from a broken leg, sustained when the
bandit chiefs' horse fell upon him.
"Pancho Villa Is wounded so badly
that he la apt to die of Infection and
blood poisoning before the American
army or the Carranza army ever cap
tures him," said Gavira In Juares.
"I have confirmation from many
sources thst Villa Is badly wounded.
I understand that the wound Is a bad
laceration of the knee and thigh. Gen.
Berlanl has secured this Information
from our own men who were prisoners
In Villa's camp and were released In
the battle between the American
troops at San Geronlmo. We have It
that Villa's personal following has
been reduced to 150. With such a
small band, he Is naturally able to
travel quite fast, but In the event of
an engagement with other troops he
would be annihilated and it Is only a
question of hours when he will be
taken prisoner or killed."
General George Bell, Jr., command
ing the border patrol here, was ad
vised that the two companies of the
Twenty-fourth (negro) Infantry sta
tioned at Del Rio would be sent Into
Mexico for duty at the request of cltl
sens of Del Rio, who asked for their
recall following a riot In Del Rio In
which an officer ahot one of the sol
diers. Department of Justice officials have
caused the arrest of General Marcell
Caraveo. his brother Samuel, General
Jrudenclo Meranda, General Zaragoza
and Jose Rochln ln connection with a
reported plot to start a new revolution
In Mexico with General Vnes Salazar
at Its head. Airrego Baca, attorney
for Salazar. also waa detained for sev
eral hours, but lster releaaed. Two
others, all prominent ln Mexican revo
lutionary affairs, are In Jail.
j VILLA'S SURRENDER RUMORED
Formsr Agsnt ef Bandit Confara With
United States Officers.
I Columbus, N. M.. April 11. Sam
Dreden, one time machine gun op
erator for Pascual Oroico, later for
Francisco Villa, In Mexico, reached
here from El Paso and bad a confer
ence with Mayor W. R. Sample, com
, mander of the Pershing base. It la
'said the conference had to do with
the present chase after Villa.
Whether Dreden brought a surrend-
"" fr?m V"1
pilot the American troops to the hid
ing place of his former chief, was not
learned.
Dreben Is a Phlladelphlan and dur
ing the height or Villa's career In
Mexico, was one of the Villa ammuni
tion agents on the border, working
oder Fella ' Sommerfold, la New
Terk.
WORLD NEWS
No essential change has taken
place during the week either on
the western or the eastern frontier
of the European war. The Germans
have not been able to force a way
into Verdun, nor have the Russians
been able to push the Germans back
from Russian soil.
The Russian Duma, has succeeded
In bringing to light great abuses in
the management of the railroads In
transporting supplies and munitions.
Large quantities have been allowed
to pile up at points where they were
not needed waiting for graft money
to be paid for their shipment Strong
measures are being taken and sev
eral officials bave been discharged.
Germany has at length sent a
message to the United States deny
ing that the Sussex was torpedoed
by her submarines. Investigations
on the part of American officials
point in an opposite direction but
the chain of evidence has not yet
been made complete, and no action
can or should be taken until it Is.
In the rase of the Hesperian the
United States reached a conclusion
too hastily and had to change it on
runner evidence.
England is tightening the lines on
Germany's last holding in Africa.
It is most important of all to Eng
land because it lies between her In
terests in Egypt to the north and
the colonies in South Africa. Eng
land has long coveted a direct line
across the eastern part of Africa for
the whole length of the continent.
Both the German Chancelor, in his
speech before the Reichstag, and the
Foreign Minister of Germany are
strong in their assertion that Ger
many has not any intentions of in
terference in the affairs of either
North America or South America,
should she be victorious in the pres
ent war.
The Daughters ef the Amerieaji
Revolution celebrated the birthday
of King Albert of Belgium during;
the week, by distributing little flags
of that country throughout tile
United States and selling them at a
small cost to secure a fund of one
million dollars to be sent to aid In
the Belgian relief work.
China's changes are about aa fre
quent as the weeks themselves.
Now she is back again from a re
public to an empire. The Emperor
Yuan Shi Kai declares he wishes to
keep neutral in the Euronean war
and to devote the energies of bis
land to industrial development and
education, of his people. China
however, faces a Droblem of seces
sion for some of the southern prov
inces are much dissatisfied.
The week has not ended the Amer
ican expedition into Mexico. Villa
has succeeded in getting farther
south and is thought to be in com
maold of quite a following. Our
troops have gone a distance of four
hundred miles into Mexico and are
expecting to clash with Villa again
before long. The original order by
which our forces crossed the bord
er, much to the surprise of the
public, does not require the actual
capture of Villa or his death but
only the breaking of his power.
MARSHAL VON HARSLER
Oldest Officer en Active
Duty In German Army.
