UURLINGTON VERMONT, THURSDAY, APRIL 115, 191(5.
NUMBER 42.
VOL. LXC. NEW SERIES VOL. LXII.
II 1 OF II
H HER Sllffl
GERMANS RESERVE
INFANTRY FOR M
POINTS TO VERDUN
HAPPENINGS IN VT.;
NEWS BY COUNTIES
Foot Soldiers Idle in Trenches
MIDDLEBURY.
Formal Reply to American Request for Informa
tion Just Received Adds That a Teutonic Un
dersea Boat Torpedoed a Mine Layer in the
Vicinity of the Spot Where the Sussex Was
Wrecked The Steamers Englishman, Eagle
Point, Manchester Engineer and Berwind
vale Were All Torpedoed According to the
Rules of War.
government of the United States, takes
occasion to ipiicw to the nmbassndor
tlii! assurance of Ills distinguished
esteem.
(Sinned) "JAGOW."
: FINAL WORD TO
ERLIi WILL SOON
E DESPATCHED
Berlin, April 12. Oormanv's reply to now took their places. After the enm-
the Inquiries of the Aineileur. govern
jnent regarding the steamers Sussex,
Manchester Engineer. Englishman.
Germany's Admission That Hei
Submarines Attacked Ships
Carrying U. S. Citizens
Simplifies Matters.
land In tho Interest of Iho K'lrn llattln
Homes In Vet mont. John Lynch, who
' as been 111 Ht thi homo of his parents
In Hutland for tlnee weeks, has re
covered and i (turned to town. Road
t'ommlsslonor Hattwcll Dutnonu has
Mrs. Electa Sos-ions, widow of tllrnm ono . nrattlchiiro to attend the funeral
Sessions, tiled lit her home In the south f a i0thor, George Hatiyeau, a forniet
part of the town Thursday morning a! i-clcIont of Mlddlobury, who died In
the ngo of 7fl Jears, of a complication of cidconeo Falls. Mass.. on Saturday -
Wliiln Hif (ilinS l'rcnare for troubles. She Is survived by one son, .'runk rolllns and Harry and I-oitls
I Hiram Elroy Sessions, with whom she had nrossouu have returned from Providence,
Attack Oil Hill HO I, EsnCS aildi made her homo for a number of yeats . ,ti j,, where they went some '.reeks nun
Slip was a long-time resident ana nan i.. ,M.arch of omploynent. Mrs. liny
many friends. She was n member of tho Harrison of Hutland Is In town. Miss
Le Mort Homme.
QUIET EAST OF THE IKE
Violent Artillery Duels in the
Russian Theatre
Congregational Church of Rochester, 'rinnoy, a student nt the college, wni
iHOUSAND VILLA
BANDITS DESTROY
SIERRA IVIOJADA
Vast Amount of American Mint
ing Property Is Made Uselesi
by Rjiiders in Looted Mexican
Town.
where she ued to live. The funeral was )!,. Mom' ty night to the Mary liet
held Saturday afternoon at two , ,r mispitnl to undergo tientment
o'clock, with Interment In Piospect ceme-1 -r,e funeral services of the late George
tery at East Mlitdlebury. I Denno. who died of pneumonia la"t Hal
George Johnson, who was arrested ,,iday,were held at theundcrtnklng rooms
by Deputy Sheriff X. J. Sanford In f ,j lilackiner at three o'clock Wed-
Crown Point, N. Y., on April fi nnd nosday afternoon. There were some beau
placed In the county Jail, charged with tful floral offerings. The services were
taking mortgaged proierty out or the conducted by tbn Ilev John Evans Hold.
State, was In municipal court Friday , Rplntlvos from out of town Were Mrs.
AllStrianS ! morning and pleaded entity to tho ,inus Rultlw In of Mount Holly, .Mrs. An
charge. He was lined ?2.1 and costs. . tolne Iniffany of Shorehain, John Denno
I OSC Trendies On Italian Front T1"' mortgage was on four horses and of Northampton, Mass., and Simeon and
J the brought back three. Tho other one Clifford Uenno of I'nimers Falls, N. Y
and Suffer Heavy Casualties 'was drowned In Lake Chnmplaln when There Is another brother nnd sister, whose
' 'the was getting It out of tho State. 1 addresses wei e not learned In time to no-
HINT ST VILLA'S PRESENCE
It Is Reported.
inandiint convinced himself that the
I boats, which had hoisted sails, hail pot-
ten clear of the Mcaincr, he sank the
Ilerwlndvale and Eagle Point, signed , steamer.
by Gottlieb von Jngow, the German "At the time of the sinking a nnrth
Jiilnlster of foreign affairs, has been northwest wind of the strength of two.
foi warded to Washington by Ainbassa-1 not ' a stonn wind' nnd a Ugh! swell, not
lor Gerald, heavy sea' as stated In the given de-
The note denies that the Sussex was ; setiptlon, prevailed. The boats tbciefoie
Iittackeil bv il Gorman submarine. The i,n,t everv nri'snect of Icing niched un
Investigation coveting the Sussex case Verv quickly because the place of the (ieriuany tlvtt her siibmailnes recently
s.t.s the note was extended to all ac- I sinking lay on a much used steamer path. j attacked three merchant bhlps cnroim,
Hons undertaken on Maich 21 the day j "if the clew of the steamer used only i American citizens and that one of them
of tho Sussex Incident- In the channel two small boats for saving themselves, I torpedoed a Vessel In the vicinity of the
between Folkestone and Dieppe. One ' the responsibility fails upon themselves, ' point where the channel steamer Sussex
Meamer was sunk, the commander of since there were still upon the steamer, ! was damaged by an e.ploslon has
the Get man submarine leaching the ! as the suhmat Ino could establish, at least simplified the task of the state depart-
Wnshlngton. April 12. Admission by
definite, conclusion that It was a war
Vessel. A sketch of this vessel, lo
go the r with photographic teproduc-
tlons of a picture of the steamer Sus
four bis collapsible boats.
Tin-: srssr.x cash
"Fifth The French steamer Susex as-
nieiit In prepariiu; for the le'.xt step of
the Fnlted S.tntes In the issue over sub
marine wat fare.
Following the receipt In cabled press
ex printed In the London Dally certninment of the fact whether the cban- despatches of the latest German note, it
nel steamer Scssex was dnmnKcd by a 1 .came Known that tho United States
Herman submarino was tendered ex- j would continue to compile Information
tremely difficult because no exact details i Indicating that German submarines are
Citaphlc. were enclo'-eil with the note,
the difference between the two craft
bolus; indicated.
The steamers Fnnllshman and Facie
Folnt were sunk by Geiman submar
I i os after th?y had attempted to es
c. pe and time was allowed for the
withdrawal of those aboard.
The steamer I!erwlndvalc was jiossl-! tended to all actions undertaken on the
tdy sunk lr a German submarine, while day In question March "I In the chan
Jeflnlte details with iespect to the i nel in the j-'eneral region between Folk
Manchester FnKineer are laukluc: and , stone and Dieppe.
Ihciefore there has been no sufficient
tiasls for Investigation of this particu- I
of time, place and attendant circum
stances of the sinking were known and
also because it was impossible to obtain
a pictitio of the ship before April !. Con
sequently the investigation had to be ex
lar case.
DF.SC'ltlJ5i:.S TOUPKDOED CRAFT.
"In that region on March 24, a long
ineiiitliii' In violation of the rules ol
International law, and that very' knon a
communication, designed to be the final
word of the American government on
the subject, would forwaid to Herlln.
The state clcpattment virtually has
completed the collection of facts relat
ing to all attacks on merchant ships
since the Dusltnnln. Further evidence
In the cn-.e of the Sussex forwarded by
the American embassies nt jVmdon and
Paris is to arrive on the liner St. Paul
THXT OF XOTF.
The following Is the text of the Ger
man note on the Sussex dated April 10:
"Tho undersigned bus the honor to In
form Your Excellency, Ambassador j ,,, fommandor reached the dellnlte
(ierard. In response to communications ' conclusion that it was a war vessel,
t 'he 2tith and .Tun ultimo and the third .m( indeed, a mine layer of tho re-
black craft without a flag, having a .-rdav.
gray funnel, small gray forvara wonts , T10 lmorrIrini text of tho rote from
and two high masts, was encountered r;ermanv was communicated to Prcsl
about the middle of the KiiKllsh chan- , ,lont Wllson nnd Secretary Lansing to-
nel by a Germnn submarine, l he tier-i ... t Tho official text was expected
hourly. It will bo considered by the
cabinet at Its nmular meeting on Frl-
l.ondon, April 12. The Germans north
west of Vcidiin evidently are holding in
leash their Infantry for fresh nttacks In
their endeavois to capture hill "01 and l.e
Moit Ilomi'ie, key pt.lnts which nre tena
ciously barring their way to the fortress.
The Infantry has remained Idle In their
trenches while the big guns ale shower
ing shells on the icgton embracing the
triangle formed by hill ?M, Finos and l.e
Mort Homme. Xot even a sally by tile
lortnans In this dis'rlct Is reported In
the latest Flench official communication.
Comparative quiet prevails to the east
of tho Mouse around Douaumont and
atix, where there has recently been such
lolons flshtlng. Xo Infantry attacks
have been made by either side, and the
activity of the artillery has been le?s
arked than on previous days.
Mining operations and grenade fighting
have taken place in the Arsonnp forest,
during which the French captured the
southern edges of two craters near I.cs
ourtes Chatissees.
Tile Germans along the rilkelm-Ypres
road after three attacks invaded Rrltlsh
trenches but were quickly expelled from
them, while tho Rrltlsh successfully
aided German trenches near Rielio-
boiirg I.'aoue.
In the Russian theatre there have been
irtlllery duels and Infantry attacks at
minus places. On the Austro-ltallan
front the Italians have taken from the
Austrlans the heights "rlh of Rloponale
md strong liner . ' macs ana mw"
mi tlie soutnear.i slopes oi .uome i an
and Clnnadoro and on the rocks of Mmtci
Sperone, the Austrlans suffering heavy
casualties. Elsewhere along the lino tho
artillery duels continue.
The water in Otter creek hi steadily ' tlfy them of the date of the funeral. The
rising and the meadows along through interment was In the West cemetery and
Leicester, Whiting, anil Salisbury are, the pall bearers were the brothers, Cllf
now widely overflowed. On the creek , ford and John Denno, Ira l!ald In of Mid
road between this vl'lage and the See-! I'lebury, a nephew, and Henry Plceon of
ley district three miles aw.ay the road Mlddlehury. Mrs. Thomas E. Mnyco of
Is deeply overflowed so as to be Im- j Elm street, who hns been 111 for two
Story in El Paso That Bandit
Chief Has Doubled on Hia
Tracks and Is Not More Than
200 Miles from Presidio, Tex.,
at the Present Time.
passable. Travelers by team have to
go a long way around.
George Denno died at 1:30 o'clock Sat'
weeks, has suffered a number of hemor
rhnges which have considerably weakened
her strength. Mrs. Joseph W. Lawrence,
instant teaardlng the steamers Sussex,
Ho
day.
i-ntlv built Engllsh-Arabls class.
Manchester Engineer, EtiRllshman, Her- .ls led t() that conviction by the fol- . ltmi tc.tji im 'Vni?TT-l
v ndvalc and Eaule Point, that the men- ' .u...Ilir f.,cts. F,st. by the plain, un- 1 AK1UKU "r - .1 "
lowing facts: First, by the plain, un
titled ca.-rx, In accordance with our J liroUen deck oT the ship; second, the
notes of the lth nnd Slut ultimo and ( fonil ot tlm stern, sloping downward
tie fourth and fifth Instant, have been imckwarU like a war vessel; third,
s ibleeted to caieful investigation by the u, waR painted like a war vessel
DANVILLE HURNED
St. Johnsbury, April 12. The house on
the Corliss Morrill farm In North Dan
lJmlral staff of the navy, which has led fourth, the high speed developed, about' villc was burned this afternoon with a
to the following lesults
rilH UEIIYVINDVALE TP.IE!) ESCAPE
"First The English steamer Herwind
rnie a steamer which was po-si'oly tin;
norwlndwilo, was encountered on the
veiling of March Ifi In silit of Hull
Rock light, on the IrMi coast, by a
Terman submarine The steamer, as
loon as she noilied the submarine,
ftiileh was running unsubmerged, turn
ed and steamed away. She was ordered
lo halt by a warning shot. She paid
no attention, however, to this warning,
tint extinguished all lights and attempted
to escape. The vessel, which was then
fired upon, halted, anil without further
nrdeis. Ioweretl several boats. After the
anil
eighteen knots; fifth, the circumstance los of (''" The lire was discovered
that the vessel did not keep a course hy the housekeeper after she built a tire
iiorthw'ud of the light buoys between In the dining room stove and It was
Dungeniss anil Heaehy Head, which, probably aused by a defective chimney.
according to tho frequent and unvary- , Mr. Morrill and his son were away and
lug observations of German submit-1 the hoin-ekeeiier ran about a qiiaiter of
rlnes. Is about the course of commer
cial Vessels, but kept In the middle of
the channel, on a course about in the
direction of Le Ilavn.
a mile to a neighbor's to summon help.
The furniture on the ground floor of tin
building was saved but theie was no
chance of saving the house so the bucket
Consequently, he attacked the vessel 1 Inigado confined Its work to the barns
nt 3:X In tho afternoon, middle Euiopean
time, ono and one-half sea miles south
east of Hull Hock (Mullock?) Hank, the
submarine being submerged, The tor
pelo struck and caused such a violent
explosion In the forw.ir.) pait ! tho ship
which escaped the fire. The loss
partially covered by Insurance.
I NEW YORK TRIBUNE
I FOR COL. ROOSEVELT
received i ll,at ,,1R entire forwaid part was toini
violent explosion
P..H- enlnrei! tile boats
enough time to row away, the ship wns,1'" lo tno or oge.
"The particularly
"The name of this steamer was not "arrants tho (ortain conclusion that
..tni.ti.i,n,i. it ,,,m be stated ,vitl, g eat amounts ot munitions wei e about (1.
nss trance, even with the help of the '
rletolls which were furnished by the
American embassy, that the above de
scribed Incident concerns the Btenmcr
ilerwlndvale Since, however, tho
steamer sunk was a tank steamer like
tho Uerwirdv-iie, the Identity of the
pi dp may be assumed. In this case,
however, tho statement made that tho
Herwindvalo was torpedoed without
wnrnlug would conflict with tho facts.
THE ENGLISHMAN CASE.
"Second Tho British steamer English
man this steamer on March 21 was
called upon to halt by a Germnn sub
marine through two warning shots about
to sea miles west ot Islay (Hebrides),
The vessel proceeded, however, without
heeding tho warning nnd was therefore
foiced by the submarine by artillery
fire to halt after an extended chaso;
whereupon she loweied boats without
further orders.
"After tho German commandant hnd
convinced himself that the crew had
taken to the boats and rowed from the
ship, ho sank tho steamer.
THE MAXCIIESTHU ENGINEER.
"Third Tho British steamer ManchoS'
let- Engineer It Is impnsslblo to estab
llsh thtough tho Investigation up to the
present whether tho attack on this
steamer, which, nccordlng to tho given
description, occurred on March 27, In tho
latitude of Wntcrford, Is uttiibutablo to
a German submarine. The statement
regarding tho time and place of tho In
cident gives no sufficient basis for In
vestigation. It would therefore bo do
slrablo to have moro exact statements,
of tho place, time nnd attendant circum
stances of tho attacl; reported by the
American government In order that the
investigation might thereupon bo
brought to a conclusion,
THE EAGLE POINT.
"Fourth Tho llrltlnh steamer Eaglo
Point -This steamer in tho forenoon of
March 28 was called upon to halt by a
( lei man Htibmarino through signal and
shot about 100-not ISO sea miles from
the southwest const of Ireland, but
proceeded. Kho was thcroupon llted up
on until halted, and, without further
orders, lowered two boats, In which the
SKETCH MADE OF VESSEL.
"Tho German commander made a
rkeuii of the vessel attacked by him, two
drawings of which are enclosed. Tho pic
ture of the steamer Sussex, two copies
of which me also enclosed, Is reproduced
photographically from tho English paper,
tho Daily Graphic, of tho 27th ultimo.
A comparison of the sketch and tho
! N'ew York. Anrll 12. Tile New Yorl
Tribune, for scores of yenrs a leading
republican journal, will declare edltot ltlly
to-morrow for the nomination of Theo
dure Hoosevelt for tho pittildency by the
republican convention.
MOTION FOU VERDICT DENIED.
Rutland, April 12 Judge Frnnk L. Fls
In Rutland county court to-day overruled
a motion Hint a verdict bo directed for
the defendant In tho case of Louis John
son, administrator of Hlldilr Johnson of
unlay afternoon after a three days' 111- wno nas Lioen in town lor a wcei:, a guest
ness with pneumonia, aged 51 years. Mr. j "f her aunt. Miss Ellen Sullivan, left
Denno Is survived by a wife and a ten- Wednesday noon for Boston, where she
vear-old son. Georue Denno. Jr. Besides nnd Mr. Lawrene-e nre to make their head-
i,i -if,. nn.l ln Is survived bv two 'tuartors In the future.-The annual meet-
sisters, Mrs. Julius Baldwin of Mount " Mld-llebury Council, No 11, R. and
lloltv n.wl Antnnlr. tlonVv of Ul"h- ', H- M" w hcM ' l'""1'- tile Mil
,iii' i a, xtnoHe.," KendMI. :-' Temple Tuesdav evening There
nu.i ,i wouu ii 1 1 1 o in i" e. i ne reports oi
Iho various olllcers showed that the eoim
ell was In a tiouprlshing condition. The
following officers were elected. T. I M..
Fred G. Brooklns; I. D. M., Frnnk
.'Uoarnn; P. C. of W.. Prof. A. V. Eddy
who hns been visiting Josopli Calhoun ,
for two weeks, has returned to Annan-dnle-on-the-Hiidson,
X. Y., where be Is
a student nt St. Stephen's College.
Word hns been rerclvod that George
Brooks, a former resident of this village
and Bristol, but for a few years of Bos-
treasurer and recorder. William H. Brew
ster. Tho installation will take place on
ton. had been stricken with a shock and (ho swoml Tllf.Pllay , Mnj, nt .ch
was In a serious condition. Michael Hal-
pin, who a few weeks ago had a severe
attack of heart disease, but who had re
covered so much that he hns been ablo
to be In tho village on snveral occasions,
'Imo the appointive otllrers will be elect
od. William II. Jackson, the well known
artist of this village', Is serlouslv 111 with
pneumonia. State Auditor Graham was
in town Tuesday and Wednesday audit-
INJURED JUMPING TRAIN.
William Iloeher. in. Hurt nltoul Henil
nnd Shoulders at St. Albnns.
St. Albans, April 12. William Bocher,
lnd of 15 years, giving Saratoga
Springs, X. Y., as his home, was severe
ly Injured about the head and shoulders
about six o'clock this morning when tie
Attempted to Jump extra freight Xo. 411,
south, on the Central Vermont rail
way, as It was leaving the yard in tins
city. Dr. Alan Davidson, the company
surgeon, who was .summoned, had the
removed to the hospital where I1I3
Injuries, which were not as serious as
was feared at first, were dressed, ite win
hao to remain In the hospital several
day.
The boy attempted to board the train
form the west side opposite the call olllce
when ho struck some cars standing on
the middle line. He was knockld to the
ground. Apparently the train crew had
no knowledge of the accident.
Conductor J. E. Ingham ot a Rich
foid branch freight extra saw what had
happened and, With Charles F. Gale,
yard clerk, carried tho boy to the call
ofllce and .summoned Dr. Davidson.
The lad claims that his father, Wll
llam Bocher, Is a holler maker for the
Dclawaro & Hudson railway at Saratoga,
X. Y., and Hint he also has a sister 11 v
ins In Albany, X Y.
lias had another attack and his friends int, tht. nccollnts of the December term of
lire nlarmcd over his condition. Miss lho com,ty court and of municipal court.
Florence E. Eddy has returned, from Io cf ,ern Wednesday morning for tho
Rutland, whore stio lias been for three southern part of the State Professoi
weeks, staying at tho home ot her lin,i jrH. Edwin Holmes entertained
brother. Clarence II. Eddy. Marcus their Sunday school classes in tho church
Cair, the well known cattle man, while parlors Wednesday evening. There was
tit work among some cattle at tho Gor- n. supper at 1:20 o'clock, followed by a so
ham Stock farm on WoybrUlge street, dal hour.- the Ladles' Aid society of the
was kicked by a cow in fh" lett log ana Memorial iinpllst cnuren neio n wen
so severely Injured that ho Is obligee! ' attendee meeting nt the home of Mrs. IS.
to uso crutches. Rena More, who has is. BeneJIct on Court strict ednosdav
been spending two weeks with her par- afternoon. Tho Rev. Frnnk . c ass
ents, Mr. and Mrs. Grandy, hns returned leaves to-day for Saratoga. X. Y., to at-
to her school dutlos in Willlam-stowm 1 tend tho annual Methodist conference In
Mrs. Charles A. Earle, who has been ' session In that city this week The case
at the homo of Mrs. E. D. Twltchcll for ' of Joseph Blaise against Thomas Bollard.
few months, has taken rooms In tho both of CornwuII, was heard in municipal
Addison IIouse.-.Mrs. T. E. Boyce Is I", court Tuesday. Blaise brought suit to re-
. 1 ' .. IA aMaiAjI y. l.rt Inn Viltll frtr VMTV
at her home on Elm street. .miss . cr .ui.-h-o ... ....
Ulce Eastern, a teacher in the high I performed for ntuinru. milium c.n.mu .
school at Dover. X. H Is in town, ' ; , n , t
spending her vncntlon with her parents, ; nnowcu me pm.ium
Mr. and Mrs. Robert Easton.-Mrs. u. 'ln iuI ' , , T m , , ii0i
mi l, ..., . V..MlnM tn TUB l.nuies .1111 sovieiy ill lliu .i-""-
1 uifiiiivr, it.wa h"i' ..in .......u
El Paso. Texas, April 12. A band of
Villa followers numbering several hun
dred and possibly a thousand, havn
sacked Sierra Mojada, live miles ncross
tho Coahulla line and SO miles east of
Jlmlnez, destroying many thousands of
dollars worth of American property and
looting the town of everything of value.
This news, which may prove to bo of
the highest Importance, as It Is be'.Ieveii
hero possibly Villa himself was among
the raiders, was received here to-day
by tlie representative of one of the larg
est American mining concerns in Mexico
and Is accepted by him as authentic.
The bandits made their attack on tho
town on April 3. They came from
Escalon, a junction point on the Mexi
can National railroad, CO miles south
east of Jimlnes and about an equal dis
tance southwest of Sierra Mojada,
which lias Its connection bv the Mexi
can Northern railroad. On their way
to Sierra Mojada they sacked tho small
town of Corrlllo.
The belief that Villa himself may bo
directing tho operations of the bandit
Is supported by a report received to-day
from OJInaga stating that Colonol Rlo
Jas, the commander there, had informa
tion that Villa had doubled In his track
and was 200 miles southwest of thnt
town. OJlnaira Is directly across th
border from Presidio, Texas, nnd about
150 miles north of Sierra Mojada.
BREACH OF PROMISE
SUIT IS SETTLED
picture shows that the craft attacked is JohnS(llli n((ml ypnrBi was
not identical with the Sussex; tho dlf
ference In tho position of the stack and
shape of tho stern is particularly stt Ik
ing.
killed by a train nt a crossing here on
September D, 1913, whllo passing alone
over the tracks. Her relntlves want JS.O1)
damages on the ground that the rail-
Railroad counsel aked for the verdict
on the ground that tho plaintiff's evi
dence failed to show that tho child was
struck wiille In tho public highway and
that It had not been shown tliat she used
pioper caution to look and listen on np
preaching tho crossing. No one witnessed
the accident.
".-NO Oilier llllllCK nn Hi i.e........ , m.,.!le,,t In .,t ImvW tl.
submarines nt tho time in question for cr0S8,nK .-narded by a llagman or signal.
1110 fjussex upon mu uui'i".ii
Folkestone and Dleppo occurred. The.
German government must thercforo as
sumo that tho injury to tho Sussex is
attributable to another cause than an
atack hy a German submarine.
GERMANS EXPLODED 21 MIXES.
"For nn explanation of tho caso tho
fact may perhaps bo sorvlccablo that
110 loss than twenty-six English mines
wore exploded by shots by Gorman
naval forces In tho channel on tho first
and second of April alono, Tho entlio
sea in that vicinity Is, In fact, en
dangered by floating mines and by tor
pedoes that have not sunk. Off the
English coast it is further endangered
In an increasing degreo through Gor
man mines, which havo been laid
against enemy naval forces.
iihoulu tho American government
havo at Its disposal furthor material
for a conclusion upon tho caso of tho
Sussex, tho Gorman govornment would
ask that It bo communicatee, in order
to subject this material also to un In
vestigation.
SUGQESTS INTERXATIONAL COURT,
"In tho ovont that differences of
opinion should develop hereby between
tho two governments, tho German gov
ornmont now declares Itself ready lo
havo tho facts of tho caso established
through mixed commissions of Investi
gation in accordance) with tho thltel
tltlo of The Hague agreomont for tin
peaceful sottlomont of International
conflicts- November IS, 1907-
"Tho nndorBlgnod, whllo requesting
that you cuiiiiiiunlcato tho ubuvo to tho
MARSHALL FOR VICE-PRESIDENT.
Washington, Apill 12. Vice-President
Marshall again the running mate for
President Wilson and Senator James
Hamilton Lewis as tomporary chairman
and "keynote" at the democratic nation
al convention Is the prnspctlvo arrange
ment, according to many democratic
leaders gathering here tor the meeting of
Stnto chairmen Thursday.
Senator I.owis announced to-day that
talk of his possible candidacy for the vice
presidency bad been dispelled with the
determination of Marshall 10 run again
That thoro will be strong opposition
to Lewis In tho national committee Is
certain. Ills own State committeeman
Charles lloeschensteln. a close friend of
Roger Sillllvnn, is opposed to Lewis, who
eainpalgntd against Sillllvnn when the
latter ran for Hie Senate In 1911, Sena
tor Tnggntt of Indiana also a committee
man Is understood to opposo Lewis.
LEG AXD FOOT CRUSHED.
St. JohiiKliury, April 12. Oeorgo Roy, M,
employed In tho foundry at the Fairbanks
shops, was seriously Injured this after
noon when a heavy pleco of Iron fell,
crushing his log and foot. Ho was taken
to JJiib'htlook hospltul.
H.
visit her daughter nnd family for a few
days. The local chapter of the Y. M.
C. A. has moved Its rooms from the
Bond blo-'k on Main stie-jt to the rooms
under the postofflce. which hne been
recently lilted up for them. Mrs. J. A.
Peck hns gone to Haitforil, Conn., where
Mr. Peck Is engaged In business. Mrs.
H. M. Bain has returned fiom Wash
ington, D. C. whero she has been to
visit her son, Clyde Bain. She also
visited her daughter, Mrs. Edward
rrlggs, of Woodbury, X. J.
The Mayfair war relief held a well
attended meeting at tho home of Mrs
John Fletchor Monday afternoon. The
Century club met with Mrs N II.
Eddy Tuesday. M-s. William Shaw
nnd two children, who havo been visit
ing at the home of her mother, Mrs.
John Irndett, have returned to Brattle-
horn. A meeting of the county commit-
tee of the Young Men's Christian asso- I
Church held a well attended parcels post
salo In tho social rooms of the church
Wednesday evening. Supper was servo I
In cafeteria stvlo. A good sum was real
ized for the heneflt of the church society.
-Jesso Forest has gone to Proctoi to
spend a few dnjs on business. Mrs El
mira I aFrnnce has gone to Rutland,
called by the serious illnes of her son,
f.ewjs I a France. Mrs. Dald Caremon is
at tho Fanny Allen hospital, where she
underwent an operation. Sho was accom
panied by Dr. S. S. Eddy-. Professor
Swett Is making preparations to build
a cottage at Ijtko Dunmore, which ho
will uso for a summer home. Marcus
Carr. the well known cattle man, who
in days ago, 11.1s
STRIKE CLOSES SLATE
QUARRIES IN PAWLET
Itnttnn, Ilungniinn nnd Slav Workmen
Demand Increase in Wagc.
Rutland, April 12. All of the slate quar
ries In the Pawiet district are shut down
because of the strlko of tho pit men yes
terday. The strikers are. mostly Italians,
Hungarians nnd Slavs. They made a de
mand for an Increase of about three cents
an hour or 20 cents a day and also that
their luncli time at nlno o'clock be free.
Tho demands were rofuped but the men
cavo no notice of quitting. They have
been receiving about IS to 20 conts an hour
and their workday has been nine hours.
As far as Is known, the men belong to
no organization but havo simply got th
impression that workers are In big de
mand elFewiiere at larger pay than thev
havo been getting and they are all united
In their demands.
As a result of the strike, there aro no
blocks of slato for tho slato makers and
they aro consequently Idle. TenmsteM
and others also have nothing to do.
It is understood here that tho workers
in tho South Poultney quarries will go out
In a day or two, having made similar demands.
,,-oQ llnl.-nrl liv :i CO".V
so fnr recovered as to lie able to get about U. S. IS WrJAljl MlJCvK
with tho aid of crutches. MWs Eleanor THAN EVER BEFORE
Frndett, who has been visiting her moth-
'"' Mrs: J"'l" .1!;.. i.?. Washington. April 12.-F.nanc.nl
f stbes ;,;:::;;, .1,;;.. ";--th
elation wns held Monday evening, Fred . . . mp,,tln lU the home of Mrs Lo- the United Stntes lo-itaj man lmt
B. Freeman of the international commit- 1 " ' "'elf 'Ptm.t Wednes- fore and is rising rapidly to new ,CVoK
MInk Mrytle Wrlili nnel William II. Cur
ler Settle !M'MMM Cnr on CiinIi
HiinIh Xot Miule Public.
Rutland, April 12. The SlO.onn breach
of promlso suit brought by Miss Myrtle
P, Webb of IVittland, Me,, against Wll
llam B. Cnrter, manager of the Hotel
Fnrragut at Rye, X, II,. and owner ot
a Inrgo stock farm at Plttsford, a for
mer president of tho Vermont Dairy
nan's association and of the Rutland
County Agricultural society, was settled
by an agreement between tlie parties
to-day, and will not be tried. Tho at
torneys In the case refused to make any
statement, but It Is understood that the
compromise called for a substantial
cash payment on tho part of the de
fendant nnd the sut render of certain
letters In the possession eif the plain
tiff. Miss Webb wns Mr, Carter's pri
vate secretary al bis botol at Ryo Beach,
III 1911, when It Is alleged that the de
fendant promised to marry her, On
December 1.1, I'.'IS. " ' alleged that the
defendant Informed the plaintiff for tho
tlrst time that ho would never marry
her and tho suit wns tiled soon there-utter.
The Rev. D. 11. , . ,,, The,e was a good attend- according to tne uuorpremuu , u p
Corkmn and the Rev. E. A. Austin have , "CB ,,ow,q p. Selllck. who has been 111 , to-day by tne contrc.er m u.o cu.
gone to Saratoga Springs, X. V., to at- , m c0 fined to tho bed for a few weeks. rency on f g 1"7;nBm:rcnU"lCth;rta
tend the nnnual conference of Methodist , rtowlv mcovo.lng and wns able to be showing conditions March 7.
ministers. Mr. nnd Mrs. Frank Boyee , , ad about tho houso for a little 1 ties
have gone to Fall River. Mars . ,i,ay.juilKo Charles I. Button Is having
where they will spend two weeks. Miss a nigo built at tho rear of his home on
Stella Wooster, who has spout her vaca- ' Court slteet Mr. and Mrs. John Mor
tlon with her sister, Mrs. Charles Sev- 1 comb and child of Biidport are visiting
ernnce, has returned to her school In the nt tho homo of Mr. and Mrs. Gcorgo Mor-
.. . , . ,.-.,.1.. f.,..r, (llt ROlltll III
nortnern part or mo sunio. .Mooua.v, com i on me w ........ j - ..r1v -
market day. butter brought 2. to 20 ,h,.s vlllage.-George Kidder. Jr.. who .ha. crease of J'S-0Yr0l,n in;?,
..... o . on .!, it .... ,u,,t. I, few .lavs in town with his cent, within a onr. ami an increase
i-i-iiia iiiiu fKP n i " vuiiin, uwiiii it.iu oi" - -
VERGENNES.
DU PONT POWDER CO.
EXPLOSION KILLS 3
Burns, proprietor of the Logan House, : wife, lias returned 10 nusum
returned Sunday evening from Balti
more. Md.. where be had been for two
weeks under treatment at tho Johns At a meeting held at city hall Wednct
Ilopklns hospital. Ho wns nccompaii- ' day, April 5 an organization wns formed
led by Mrs. Burns. Mr. and Mrs. J. W. to be known as the Mcintosh Memorial
Lawrenco. former residents of Middle- association, with officers as follows:
bury, but who havo lived In Cambridge, j President, the Rev. U A. Vezlna; vlce
X. Y., for the past eight years, are hav- I president, II. C. Merrick; secretary , M
lug extensive ropalrs made on tho in- 1 Mary Alibn; treasurer, Dr. C. M. Cole.
terlor of their tenement house on Park , 'riie object of the association Is to corn-
street, Mrs. Uiwrenco went t uesuav to memorate tile ursl trip to tne laus oi
Boston, whero she nnd Mr. Lawrence I Donald Mcintosh, who came as a spy in
havo decided to make their home. Miss tho Interest of Colonel Reed, who held
Jennie Rlngey has been spending a few j ti10 Xew York grants to this territory,
days here as tho guest of Miss Rebecca ; and to observe the lCOth anniversary of
McGoldrlck, Ralph C. Knowlton ot I tlto settlement of ergennes. An old
Xortblleld Is visiting in town. M. J. I homo week will be held beginning July
Crnnln Is 111 with n bad attack of tho'j, and a big celebration July I. Newt 1
grip In his rooms nt the Logan House'. I was received Thursday by the Rev.
John' A. Mansfield of Plttslleld. Mass., i ,, A. Vezlna of the sudden death Wed
has arrived nnd taken n position here, i nosduv In Xew Yeuk of Dr. Xathan
of $411,000,000 slnco December 31 last.
An increase of Jt'W.O'O.O'O in lonns ana
discounts within a year.
Surplus and undivided profits of fl,
KiLI'V1, an Increase of SKO'VO.
The Increase In resources within thu
last 12 months alone, Coutroler WllllamJ
pointed out In a statement to-night, ox
ceeds the entire resources of the Relchs
bank of Germany; nnd the aggregate re
sources of American national banks "ex
ceed by pi,tM,0O0 the aggregate r
sources of the Hank of England, th
Bank of France, the Bank of Russia,
tho Rclchsbnnk of Germany, tho I3an
ot the Netherlands, the Swiss National
bank and the Bunk of Japan."
HAS ?:5,000 CAPITAL.
L. C. Beau lias gone io iiimanu, woeie
lie was cnlled by the deuth of Wilfred
U Bean, a relative. Olivet Chllson, who
met with a severe nceldtnt 1 days ago.
lesiiltlng In tho bicakliig of his arm, has
so far receive! ed as to be able to be
coiitlned for a few weeks, bus so far re-
eoveied as to be able to lido uptown
Bluefleld, W. Vn April 12, Threo
persons wero killed, a workman and
two children, when tho plant of tho Du
Pont Powder company at Nemours,
n(n,., eolintV. eight miles from here.
i.iown to nieces by four oxnloxlon ! Tuesday afternoon. Mis. George Plnney
oarlv to-day. Mousos of the little vll- who has spent the whiter with her son
lago wero wrecked and tho soiinil could
bo plainly heard In this place. The
dead children wore burled In the ruins
of thnlr home, nenr the powder mill.
The first explosion Is said to havo
completely destroyed the bulldltiK in
which It occurred,
Oppeiiheim, a noted specialist on diseases
of children. Dr. Oppenluim Is well known
throughout this section, having some
years ugo purchased the Albert Iariow
farm In Forrlsbiirg. He also has a sum
mer bom,, on Lake Cliuinplaln, where he
downtown torn short time Monday nfter-, has spent the summer for several yeais,
noon. He Is obliged to cairy his arm In, Miss Lizzie Curry died Friday
a sllug William L. Only, who hns been ! morning at lho homo of Miss M.
liorteiise Mocueii iron iireaitlng up of the
system, aged M yeais. She was horn In
Ireland and came to this country when
quite young. She was n resident of this
c'.ty for ninny years. As fnr ns known
she Is not survived ! nny nenr relatives
The funeral was held nt St. Peter's
Church Saturday morning nt !i:;io o'clock.
Deputy Sheriff F. E. Rowley of Now
John linney, In New ork city, has re
turned and opened her home on Seymour
street. Her son, Robert linney, of Mont
puller Is lu town for a few days' visit
to hla mother. Miss Elizabeth Sessions
will speak next riunday nt a union meet
In" In tbo Baptist Church at Wost Jlut-
(Contluued uu page two)
IVoplc'M Clothing More of HnrllnKton
liieorporiilen Fle Subucrlbcrii.
Montpeller. April 12 Tho People's
Clothing .store, Inc., of Burlington hn.1
tiled articles of association with tin
secretary of state, the capital stock belnit
$3.1.. The organization purposes to deal
In men's, boy's and ladle's' furnishings.
The Incorporators are M. J. nnd Charle
Levin ot Burlington, Gabriel Levin ol
Geildsboro, X. C, and Samuel and DavU
Levin of Xew York city.
MAPLE SYRUP THIEVES.
Rutland. April 12. It was learned to.
day that the Rutland county authorltlcf
have been trying to learn for several
days, without success, who helped them
selves to IS gallons of new maplo syrua
at the sui'ar house of Thomas Btttlct
In East Clarendon last Sutu relay iilgltt.
