THE HERALD.
Devoted to the Upbullding of the Weet Side of the River. "A very live and creditable weekly newspaper."-MANUFACTURERS' RECORD.
oLii. xll. NEW ORLEANS LOUISIANA, THURSDAY, APRIL 13. 1916.
AN APPEAL
TO
American Manho d!
To the Voters of the Fifteenth Ward:
Our fair State of Louisiana is toiling under a burden of mis
rule, political control and heavy taxation without proper bene
fits-and its government is now in danger of passing into the
control of a "BOSS" despite our Democratic principles of gov
ernment of, for and by the people.
Hon. JOHN M. PARKER offers himself as candidate for Gov
ernor, seeking the election out of a sense of duty, to his State.
His ambition is to pull the State out of the tyranny of its pres
ent politics; to break the shackles of debt, extravagance and
misuse of the State's funds, and leave to his successor an unen
cumbered position; to make it possible for each voter to vote as
he sees fit without fear of oppression, coercion, persecution and
eventual starvation; to establish a system of etticient and clean
government, for the good of the State and its people.
Opportunity knocks but once. The opportunity for Louisiana
to free itself of these stifling ties lies in the election to the Gov
ernorship of Hon. JOHN M. PARKER, the man of sterling and
fearless character and unblemished past, who will strive to bring
Louisiana out of political mire and impending bankruptcy, the
man who stands out pre-eminently as the champion of clean and
efficient government.
We, Independent Democrats, feeling deeply the injustice and
degradation of our State's present politics, and being deeply
concerned over the welfare of our State, appeal to you to vote, on
April 18, for
Hon. JOHN M. PARKER, for Governor,
Hon. Edwin S. Broussard, for Lieutenant Governor, a
men who stand out for Louisiana's good, first and last, and who
purpose to tolerate no "boss."
E
Bear in mind that, with equal representation in the polls, and
tAen of resolute character as our representation, you can go to
poll and cast your vote as you see fit, with the absolute assur
Snce that your vote will be secret, and will be counted for the
man for whom you cast it. o
We repeat, T
VOTE FOR JOHN M. PARKER, for Governor, M
VOTE FOR EDWIN S. BROUSSARD, for Lieutenant Gov
andyou can leave the poll with the consciousness of having
doneflyour full duty by the State.
8STAMP THE BULL MOOSE
Respectfully,
Sd- endent Democratic Club of the Fifteenth Ward,
By S. A. EROSS, President.
* LY! RALLY!! RALLY!!!
TO TIlE
PEN AIR MASS MEETING
OF THE
pendent Democratic Club
T.E FIFTEENTH WARD,
IDAY, APRIL 14th, 1916, 8 P. M.
Opelousas Ave. and Olivier St.
rable JOHN M. PARKER and other prominent speakers
ress the meeting. Ladies especially invited.
- AD WEATHER THE MEETING WILL BE HELD II PYTHIAN HALL
I Come One, Come All! Fireworks!
AND OTHERWISE
Mrs. '. T..gtie.ir. trmerly of ou
town, now of terse) City, -aye a par
ty on la t Snda% inl honor of 1Mrs. Ia
It..\. er-. also formet ly of our dis
troet.
Thiri Recorder (;off at tll for Se(
ond It,. order Tiller Saturdax., the. lat
ter being indisposedl
(lhtarees if havin. in their po..es
sion milk helot the standard wc re
preferreld by Inspector Ilurk.'. of the
('ity loard of hlealth, against t.. l.a i
nak. a dairyman, and .\lis I. l'Peter
son. al. it dealerrr ! {etore Icrder G;off on
Thursday. Lacinak also w\as charged
with re'fusing to give a second sant
ple front the satme milk can.
An oil heater exploding in the kitch
en of the residences of Peter Verne,
3017 Ilell lille street. :aused the flame
to leap to the walls of the house,
which was damaged $2,. The cons
tents of the kitchen were damaged
$25. The loss to the building, owned
by Mrs. ('arolina Belcher. :',) Olivier
street. was covered by insurance.
Peter Mlanala. owner of the building
at 4:I,9-41 Seguin street. next to which,
it is alleged. a plague-infected rat was
caught March 2,. has been charged
with violating the rat-proofing laws in
failing to comply with instructions
front the health authorities relative
to repairs to be made on the building.
Manala is the first party to be ac
cused in the Third Recorder's ('ourt.
Mrs. S. W. ('ollins. of Mct'otmb
('ity. was called Ilere on ;accounllt of
the' de-ath of her brother. Mr. ('. W
D)aniel.
Tount (ralham spent a few' days
heret with his family.
Mrs. I'almer and mother and sis
ter. Mrs. Schautnberg. and Miss
Schauniberg. left Monday for (;Gulf
port, .Miss.
A. II. Verrett left Saturday for
Washington. I). ('.
Mrs. T. Schroder is here to at
tend the Malain wedding.
Mrs. Al. Tufts and baby spent a
week with Mrs. Tufts of Belleville
street.
On Friday. April 28, a benefit ride
will he given for Miss Helen G. Skel
ly. candidate for Play Day Queen
from Algiers. on Steamer Sidney.
All of Miss Skelly's friends are in
vited and a good time is promised.
Tickets will be sold at 50 cents a
couple and 25 cents for each extra
lady. Come out and swell the can
didate's fund. K. C. Band will be
on hand. Admission will be 25
cents and 10 cents for tallies.
The Ladies' Guild of Mt. Olivet
Episcopal Church will hold their reg
ular quarterly meeting Tuesday
night at the rectory. This meeting
should be the social meeting, but as
next week is Holy Week only a busi
ness meeting will be held. All mem
bers are urged to attend as business
of importance will be transacted.
The Tuesday Euchre Club met at
the home of Mrs. J. A. McKinsey.
The successful players were Mrs.
W. J. Ernest, Mrs. L. Vinet, and
Mrs. Griner. The next meeting of
the club will take place on April 25.
At a meeting of the Commission
Council held Tuesday. with his mes
sage the mayor transmitted a peti
tion from residents of Algiers. ask
(Continued on Page 8.)
GREATEST STORE SOUTH
Foreshadowings for Easter
The dainty Easter gowns and suits that
have just come into our Fashion Salons seem
to have stepped out of old pictures painted
when Dolly Madison was first lady in the land.
They bring the scent of roses from old-fash
ioned gardens, the music of the minuet.
But, withal, there is an infinite variety of
acceptable styles. One's frocks may be con
servatively fluffy or distinctively plain, and,
with such wide latitude for choice, one will
never have to wonder if this suit or gown isn't
"just a mite too fluffy"-nor yet "too strictly
tailored."
Rare gowns for Easter luncheons and even
ing festivities for which women are now pre
paring, at prices ranging modestly from
10.00 to 75.00
Iily haI ! a. hur b.:.r . l 'u n -
;L*1 Ii'. !, t h , is dis  El. 'I .l
t I 1 I
'l t€'!Ii. nldit t it hI¢i ' ,t i -' , t , 1 :"
.thro e hi -. l! into th, riv.r
John II larro . of 1;:' i Marrqi
go . tr.,t. hookke,.pr for the JohI n
,. Ta!Til.age ( ol :n3) u ti V I, ". o I o :7
Noith 1 't'*r~. strict. .. bro hir it
I t ".org. T I .irro a l o " a- l. it!,'
ioublt thaItit i~t as hi rhher ii O
'oniimmitTed -uicide. .Mr. lHarrow ha
rJquel-ted the po!ice to Iot if him ii
lie event tihi body is foullpr., that hi.
may idetitfv it. lIe stated that he
does not know there hi, brother
lived, and had not seen him in soime
time. Searth for thie missing man
was made, in all his usual visiting
places. but without avail lie wa.s
unmarried.
.ASKING FOR BIDS.
Plans and specifications for the
new school to be located adjoining
the property of the Algiers Land Co.,
Inc.. near the Naval Station,. are in
the haids of many contractors, who
are now engaged in preparing bids
for the new structure, which will be
the most modern school in our city.
The new school is to be ready for the
fall se-sion
IF VYOt LOSE.
A beaui:iTil aiml valuable pearl
sulnburst wv a- restored to its oa tier
this week. through a lost ad in our
clasifie.d nlllllns. The jewel \was -
foundi by Mr>. C. llreclitel. 44i Web
ster street.
If you wantl good results try our
classitied columns for anything you
have to sell or buy. lost or found. etc.
PURITY ( SALLY ) CROSS
CREAMED CHICKEN
A LA KING
Ready to serve on toast or in
patty shells. Exquisitely fla
vored Golden Cream Sauce. gar
nished with Pimentos and
Mushrooms.
One portion tins, each 25c
Two portion tins, each SOc 5
h
NEW AND DAINTY I1
FOODSTUFFS
Are received daily and if news- a
oaper space was a little cheaper V
we would fill this page. Ce
B
BUT BETTER STILL
is a visit to either of our stores. T
Plenty of courteous salesmen to G
nerve you. M
sc
SOLARI '
Quality---Senice--Prices
Smart and Authentic
Millinery for
ni1 Easter
The wholeI st\le >tor\ inl Sprting \illiner
has not |c'n.l tole1, [fIr ah~ll,o 01 11n these Ilcw
anld distil:tiv' stt\lcs it>ist ill timle, to) 'C \V«'l'r
O()ni >t\lc iý : flatttcrilil wide Jrolpitn
i shape, develorped iil I (rschlair. ci ic led with a
be tliult ruche Of Imustard tulle, andll 11tld 011
ef
e the upper brim with satin, also inustarJ col
n Ored.
a :\ Another is a wide-brimnmed Hat with allur
ing lines and curves; the high crown is over
shadowed with flowers, ribbon and an aggres
sive quill. There is every evidence that these
fashions will rival those of the most pictur
esque of all periods.
is Prices are reasonable.
D. H. Holmes Co.
rl P .oi. Nw rk,. LIMITED AprKbliW
Orrlin, Lemlon and Florence. April 2,144?.
THE SOLO CAROLA INNER-PLAYER
PLEASES THE "TRAINED EAR"
* x :\i n the hard-to-pleae nmusical expert. \\hose "trained air" ha.
heretofore been able to detect a certain meIchanicial quality in A~~
player piano music, now admits larticular as he| is- that the music
of the Solo (':irola Inner-|Ilayer I'lano is faultle.-s.
IIUU=U1 lW UU 912-914
" CANAL
Successors to Cable Piano Co. STREET
A BIG SUC(''ESS. IN'('L.IMEDI LEIFTTER
The euchre given by Miss Mamie Remaining at Station A. New Or
Morrison on Saturday last to help leans, La., Post office. week ending
her little niece. Helen Gertrude Skel- Thursday, April 13. 1916.
ly, who is the Algiers playground
candidate for Play Day Queen, was Mqn--Ruffin Adams. Frank Ar
a decided success. Handsome sou- noni, C. A. Barlow, Henry Bareaux.
venirs were distributed. The suc- John Brooks (special), R. Dietrich,
cessful male players were Charles L. N. Thrack. O. J. Thlbodeaux.
Brown. N. Whitmore and A. Worley. Ladies-Mrs. N. E. Henritzy, Mrs.
R. Amuedo received the consolation. Ardel Lewis. Mrs. Agnes Louls. Mrs.
The girls were Miss Emily Tallon, Miller, Mrs. C. E. Palmer. Mrs. W.
Gertrude Finley. Annie Davis and Payne. Miss Mary Simes.
M. Oertling. the consolation. A hand- Misclellaneous-Freed & ('lark,
some pair of skates, donated by Mr. I. Freed and P.
M. Rooney, was disposed of and Missy Freed and
Mamie Morrison was the successful CHARILES JANVIER. I'. M.
girl who received them. JOS. W. DANIELS. Supt. Sta. A.
WM. LEIBE REFRIGERATOR MANUFACTORY
Refrigerators for All Uses
Refrigerating Plants :: Cold Storage Boxes
Office aIad Salesreem: 740 Peldras St. Fascter: 1024-26 Sareae St.
New Orleans
MEN!
Durham Duplex Safety Razor
FREE WITH E.('Ir ,. OTTLE OP
ELIXIR IRON, QUININE AND STRYCHNINE
WITII
IA' 01101. 12 P1I itF:NT
.¶n Excell.en" Reconstrutive and li ti,v, r, , fr Vak. D -
biiit:tetd 'ondition.- . Ilo : o Appetir. Fai',ing .tr,.ir 'l. Lark of
Nrvo.us Tone. Etc. In EnfIlr bled c'onlltio- , thi,. tI'n. due 1,
Inlmpoverishedl Blood fr rm Ma larial Poi (,:l r , in. Aeute
IllneM. this Tonic is Vory Elt'.etive
ETE ERPUPP, Dru.ist
Berrrnmudc, EEi-& &.yer ret t .
