n
"'SrM-p""' rr
"T W!p WptTSiJft-???!
UNIVERSITY MISSOURIAN
EIGHTH YEAR
COLUMBIA, MISSOURI, THURSDAY, APRIL 13, 1916
NUMBER 193
6 TELL THEIR CLAIMS
T0THEG0VERN0RSH1P
All the Candidates Except
Gardner Address Demo
cratic Rally.
BANOUET IS TONIGHT
Feast and Oratory Will Close
Annual Jefferson Day
Celebration.
Tin- climav of today's Democratic
meeting will come at ,':.'!u o'clock to
night when tlio Jefferson Day banquet
will lie Held at Columbia Hall, South
Eighth street. Arthur I Oliver or
St. I.ouis, United States district at
torney, will act as loastmaster. Talks
will In- made by 1'aul W. Hrown, edi
tor of the St. Louis Republic; Judge
Dauiiel (!. Taylor of St. louis; Has
Pears-on of Louisiana and Sam O.
Major of Favette.
Six candidates for the Democratic
nomination for governor sat shoulder
to shoulder behind the bar of the Cir
cuit Court room this afternoon and,
as each was called on in turn, took
the floor to present his claims. The
MVeiith candidate, Fred D. Gardner
of SI. I.ouis. was unable- to attend the
meeting.
.lames L. McQuie of Montgomery
Cit, who was in charge of the ses
sion, opened the meeting by intro
ducing Frederick A. Mayhall, a candidate-
for attorney general, who did
not arrive in time for the morning
session. Mahall spoke for five min
utes, announcing his candidacy.
McQuie read a telegram from Fred
D. Gardner, who is in New York City.
Gardner congratulated the Democrats
of Boone County and stated that he
kid expected to attend the banquet
but was called to New York City.
Cornelius Knaoli Speaks.
The first gubernatorial candidate to
speak was Cornelius Roach of Jef
ferson City, present secretary of state.
Mi. Roach told of sending his family
to the University in installments, lie
scored the Republican administration
of President Taft, describing the for
mer President as a "round, jelly-like
being." He gave the record of the
present Democratic national administration.
In closing, he complimented the Ma-
jcr state administration, saying that
the State Treasury had handled more
funds than in any previous adminis
tration. He referred to the large
amounts which had been spent by the
ttale in suppporting the University
and other state educational insti
tutions. Atkinson Stales Platform.
John M. Atkinson said that the pres
i nl campaign would be one of argu
ment, study and reason, that selection
of the most available candidate would
come after thoiough consideration by
the oters of the slate.
"I stand for good roads, a new con
stitution, a workingman's compensa
tion act, efficient management of state
institutions and a tax system which
will not work hardship1? upon the
land owners of the state," said Mr. At
kinson. "Tlie greatest question confronting
Missouri at present is the lax ques
tion," said John T. Barker, present
attorney-general. He told of the un
successful attempt to pass the single
ta amendment in 1912 and said that
lio hoped that the State BoarH of
Equalization would always refuse to
assess farm land to its full value in
the state.
Parker urged a saving by having
the State Legislature meet only once
each four years, thus saving JoOO.OOO
during the biennial period. He said a
saving of $700,000 In the state printing
bill was possible for the same period.
rrrarlKT-CiiiiiUilnto Speaks.
"I am handicapped in this race be
cause I am a preacher and because I
hate no campaign fund," said Arthur
N. I.Indsey. "Hut in spite of that I
helieve that I have passed several
hunches of candidates along the road."
Mr. Undsey said that tho people
ere Retting over the idea that it was
almost impossible to have a Christian
minister in politics. He said that the
primary law of Missouri was a handi
cap to the candidate who had no poli
tical connections and no campaign
fund.
In a "heart-to-heart" talk, William
It. Painter said "I can not sing, I can
not dance, but in spite of that I be
lieve I would make a good governor
for Missouri."
Painter advocated a state income
tax. He advocated a state efficiency
commission which ho said would save
JEFFERSON DAY SNAPSHOTS: SOME GENERALS AND A FEW PRIVATES
BIBBBBBBBkBBBBBBp , 5-"2E5BBJBB BBBBB- ' HBBBFQBBBBBBBBBn Bi
BBBBBBBBBBKkSBBBBiBkSv -"ss-iu? : "" ilBrjBBBiBBBBBBBBBBw
Wbbw wvbbbbbbbmAL ' bbbbbj bbbbbbb '-- kBbbbbbbiHbbbY 1 1
jrJm1 A-Xr kmm BBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBft & .i BBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBbW BB &K JBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBbT m tflffim a
&&iC.Av bbbbbbbbbbbbbbbb.3? v r 'AwJbbbbbWIbI Is & BUbbbbbbbw Wlmifui
KM5S7 bbbbbbbbbbbI K r v" i At St oMffinM
rArsi;'" bbbbbbbbbbbb - M- t f9HW-
EJi&LiHlSBBiBBBBTa "UB .'V-'' -m ul att Ibbwbbbbbbbbbbbbh
wm.JM. liflHBitHHp
BBHBBBBufP'?' bbbbbv L. "", 3Sl mn? HHmi
k Bbbf bbbbbV tt H 3I'--,- 1iSP , 3& y!! 5 Bbbbbbbbh '
(1). James . Hoggs, "Commander-in-chleF' of the rally, at his post. (2). Kerry Jacobs, in charge of preparations for flic banquet to he held to
night. (3). John T. Wajland, formerly of Howard County, now of Kansas City, candidate for slate auditor, arriving to attend the rally. (4). Ernest
A. Green, candidate for attorney general, greeting- Hojle Clark, local chairman of the program committee. (.). Frank W. McAllister, of Paris,
candidate for attorney general; George Middlekamp, Hawk Point, candidate for state treasurer; Means Hay of the slate insurance department, and
. y. Wutson, of the Columbia Tribune. (G). James W. Suddatli, Wurrensburg, candidate for judge of the Kansas City Court of Appeals. (7). It. IC
Godsey, secretary of the Young Men's Democratic Club of Missouri, meeting, Alec C. Itajless, president of the t'niiersily of Missouri Students'
Democratic Club. (S). John L. Sullivan, Sedalia, candidate for secretary of state, making a new friend. (9). E wing ('. ltlund, son of "Silver Dick''
Illand, candidate for judge of the Kansas City Court of Appeals, talking to a Missourian reporter.
between $500,000 and ?COO,000 bien
niallv for the state. He believed that
tho state eleemosynary institutions
should be taken out of politics.
He said that the police commission
ers of the large cities would not be
appointed by the governor but by the
mayors of the respective cities.
"Bootleggers are my worst enem
ies," said Painter. "If I am elected
governor and I can possibly abolish
them I pledge myself to do so."
James A. Houchin urged the en-
couragment of young Democrats In
the political affairs of the state. Mr.
Ilnnchin said that he could not be
connected with either the "federal or
the state house crowd," that no one
was influencing him In the race."
"I believe in the regulation of the
chief cities of the stale. When tho
people of the cities fail in the regula
tion so that it is not safe for the boys
from the country to walk the streets
without being subjected to tho dang
ers of Hie dens of iniquity, then it Is
time for the people from up-state to
take a hand. I believe in segregation
in the cities. I believe in the enforce
ment of the law, and the only lid which
I recognize is the lid that fits all the
time."
Morning Session at Courthouse.
At the morning session of the Young
Democrats at tho courthouse James h.
McQuie, editor of the Montgomery
Standard, as chairman introduced the
candidates for lieutenant-governor and
attorney-general.
Josenh J. Crites of Holla, candidate
for lieutenant-governor, said that in
fhA absence of his opponent, Wallace
Crossley, his would not be a "keynote"
speech.
"i nm nf German descent and to the
many voters of my nationality in Mis
qoiiH t caji sav that their hopes and
opportunities He with the principles of
the Democratic party, he saiu.
Later during the program Wallace
Crossley of Warrensburg, the other
candidate for lieutenant-governor, ar
rived and spoke to the crowd.
"In asking for the nomination I
stand on by record of ten years' ser
vice in the Missouri Legislature," he
said. "I invite Investigation of that
record."
Two graduates of the University are
candidates for the office of attorney
general Ernest A. Green was first
introduced. "In 1903 I was graduated
from the University of Missouri," he
said. "I began the practice of law the
following year. After one year I was
elected prosecuting-attorney of Butler
County and was chosen to succeed my
self. I was appointed assistant attorney-general
under Major and reap
pointed under Barker. I resigned last
year to enter the practice of law In
St. Louis, where I represent tho Uni
versity as attorney in St. Louis Coun
ty. I believe that my experience In
the office of the attorney-general has
fitted me for the position."
Refers to Legislative Serrice.
Frank W. McAllister of Paris said
that although it was not his good for
tune to attend the University, during
his service in the Missouri legislature
his work for the state school was one
of his ttrongest recommendations for
the nomination.
"I live so close to Boone County that
most of your citizens have known me
all my life."
Joe T. Davis of St. Joseph, another
graduate of the University, told how
he expected to conduct the work of the
attorney-general's office if he receiv
ed the nomination and was elected.
Mr. Davis told of his race for the attorney-generalship
four years ago.
"If elected," he said, "I will conduct
the state office as a well-regulated
law office should he conducted, and I
pledge that special service will be al
lowed no person and that no person
connected with the office shall use his
position and influence to further his
own political ambitions."
During the session the speakers
were interrupted by the arrival of a
delegation from Moberly, which
brought a band and "Dixie" into the
court room.
GAKDNEK COULD.T COME
Candidate Represented Here by Joseph
W. McCool.
One of the candidates for governor,
Colonel Frederick D. Gardner, was
detained on business In New York. He
wrote a letter to Rob Roy Godsey ex
pressing regret at his inability to at
tend the all-day meeting the banquet.
Joseph W. McCool, a business as
sociate of Colonel Gardner's, was here
looking after his interests.
Mr. McCool and Hamp Rothwell said
that immediately after Mr. Gardner's
return from New York, he would begin
an active campaign. He has opened
headquarters In the Laclede Hotel in
St. IxjuIs. Omar D. Gray, editor of the
Sturgeon Leader, will be in charge of
the headquarters and of Gardner's
campaign in all parts of Missouri out
side of St. Ixuis. In St. Louis Ills cam
paign will be in charge of a committee
of his friends and neighbors.
In Boone County and this Immediate
vicinity Gardner's interests will be
looked after by J. T. Mitchell, state
bank commissioner.
Several Students Haie Mumps.
Miss Dorothea Shields Is in the
Parker Memorial Hospital with the
mumps. Several cases nave ncen re
ported among tho students the last
few weeks, said Dr. Guy L. Noyes to
day. He said there was no danger of
the epidemic becoming widespread.
RILEY, TOO, WILL GO TO JAPAN
Journalism Graduate Will Accompany
R. II. Turner to Toklo.
Oscar E. Riley of St. Louis a gradu
ate of the School of Journalism, 1911,
and the College of Arts and Science,
1912, has been appointed a member of
the staff of the Japan Advertiser,
Tokio, Japan, to succeed Prof. F. L.
Martin, who will return here in Sep
tember. Riley has been with the Globe
Democrat in St. Louis most of the
time since his graduation, and 13
now covering the real estate and fi
nancial news "run" for that paper. He
will sail from San Francisco June 10
on the Tenyo Maru, the same steamer
that will take another School of Jour
nalism man, Ralph H.Turner, to Tokio.
Riley, Turner and Glenn Babb, who
is already in Japan, will compose a
trio of Missouri graduates in edi
torial work on the Advertiser.
Gladjs ICoterts Leads Queen Race.
Miss Gladys Roberts was leading In
the race for Ad Club Carnival Queen at
1 o'clock today. Miss Mary Perclval
was second and Miss Dera Dulaney
third. Tho other candidates arc:
Misses Norma Boehmer, Pearl Rags
dale, Annaleo Vernon and Winifred
Winters. There will bo no further an
nouncement of the voting until the
final count at tho Carnival tomorrow
night.
U. II. S. Loses to 3L M. A, CI
Tho University High School baseball
team lost to Missouri Military Acad
emy at Mexico yesterday afternoon by
the score of C to 1.
Athletic Committee to Meet Tonight.
The Committee on Intercollegiate
Athletics will meet at S o'clock tonight.
U.S.TROOPSATTACKED
BY CABWS MEN
Funston Shows Mexican's
Lack of Co-operation in
Pursuit of Villa.
ESCAPED HIM TWICE
State Department Receives
Note Regarding With
drawal of Forces.
ISy UnlteJ Press.
SAN ANTONIO, Tex.. April 13.
Carranza troops and citizens or Par
ral fired on the United States troop
ers as they marched through the city,
according to advices received from
United States Consul Letcher, of
Chihuahua, who is in communication
with General Gutierrez, the Carran
zihta commander at Parral.
Following the receipt of this mes
sage, General Frederick Funston call
ed attention to the lack of co-operation
on the part of Carranza in the
hunt for Villa. According to Funston,
Villa has twice been allowed to es
cape through Carranza's lines.
The American forces fired upon
were said to number only HO. They
are believed to be a part of Major
Tompkins command.
I'J- Ilnlleil l'ri'ss.
WASHINGTON, April 13. The
Mexican Embassy here is expected
this afternoon to deliver to the State
Department a note from General Car
ranza dealing with the proposed with
drawal of the American forces in
Mexico.
Whether the communication con
stitutes a requestor a demand de
pends on the interpretation put on the
official phraseology by the American
officials.
It is reported that high officials
went so far as to say that a demaud
for the withdrawal of the American
troops will not be met. The situa
tion is regarded as critical.
E
Columbia Considered for Pro
posed Line, Keokuk to
Jefferson City.
II. W. Knight of Chicago is in Co
lumbia today In the interest of a pro
posed interurban railroad which will
run from Keokuk, Iowa, to Jefferson
City.
Ho says that it is possible that the
interurban line will pass through Co
lumbia and that he is hero looking
over the ground. Ho refuses to .state
who is backing the system.
DRY FORCKS TO JOIN' ATKINSON if
Anti-Saloon League President Here
for Sentiment on Trolii" Issue.
Rumors that efforts were being
made by the anti-saloon league to
align their forces with John M. Atkin
son In tlie latter's race for governor
gained circulation today with the ar
rival of W. C. Shupp or St, Ixmls,
superintendent of tho Missouri Anti
Saloon Leagues. The clry contingent
is said to have been considering John
T. Barker as their candidate, but
with the entrance of Atkinson into the
race and the fact that the law and or
der plank occupies a big place In his
platform, they are said to havo turned
to him.
Several of the prohibition workers
were mixing with tho Democrats to
day. Tho gubernatorial candidates,
however, have little or nothing to say
on the Issue.
Another report among Democratic
circles stated that Mr. Shupp was al
so here for the purpose of getting the
sentiment on the proposed candidacy
of Frank P. Walsh, to oppose James
A. Reed for the United States Senate.
J. L. Slurry To Talk Tonight.
J. Lovell Murry of New York, edu
cational secretary of tho student vol
unteer movement, will talk at 7 o'clock
tonight at Ijwry Hall on "Tlie Stu
dent Volunteer Movement." .Ho held a
conference with the Y. M. C. A. and Y.
W. C. A. cabinets this afternoon on
student volunteer work.
St. Louis Reorters Here.
Four reporters of St. Louis papers
are here today to "cover" the Jeffer
son Day gathering. They are George
Eads of the Post-Dispatch, B. B. Huff
of the Globe-Democrat, Gaty Pallen
of the Republic and W. E. Babb of the
Times.
. i
