State Historical Society
aney County
EPUBLICAN
Vol.. 21
F0KSYT1I, MISSOURI, THURSDAY, APRIL i:t, 1916.
Four Pages.
Washington Letter
(From Our ll'Kulnr O'rriwpmuli'iit.)
ABSOLUTE INEFFICIENCY: "In
efficiency is the keynote, the alpha and
omega of the Wilson Administration.
Every diy's debate in Congress brings
this fact into clearer light. Every day's
conduct of the white House serves to
emphasize it. Every official report on
Governmental activities or federal sta
tistics effectively demonstrates it."
This is the summing up of wie funda
mental characteristics of the Demo
cratic Administration by a prominent
Senator whose long years of honorable
service entitle his opinions to respect.
"There is no branch of the Govern
ment in which the Democrats have
not seriously blundered, no instru
mentality of Government which has
not been gravely injured in its useful
ness to the people by Democratic Ad
ministration. What is true now is true
of every Democratic Administration
ever entrusted with, the control of the
Government, and the worst of it is that
the Democrats cannot and will not
learn. President Wilson is simply an
extreme type of his party. People arc
amazed at the obstinate s'upmiiy, or
the s'uiiid r.'isow,', wi:h which he
has tcfus- d i.. coir-ci his nm'.ane and
remedy his blunders, but he is merely
carrying out the time-honored prin
ciples of the D ni.jcrj ic pai.y "
Whit this Senator says proves true
wherever the activities and the record
ul this admiiiistiation are examined.
Iiisuitaaiy true of th-: Nitions fi
nances. The Tariff blunder: -The
Democratic party hiving, when iu con
trol i f the House duriag the la.i Ad
ministration, effected the abolition of
the Tariff Board, it proceeded in this
Administration to pass the Underwood
bill. That measure has proved a mon
umental tailure. It has produced a
tremendous deficit, giavely injured
certain American industries and failed
absolutely to reduce the cost of living.
Instead of revising the law and seeking
to correct their tirn, '.''e Democrats
are now engaged m a persistent, al
though futile, eff rt to convince the
public that the failure of the bill isuue
u the European war aud a const qucnt
fi-.-rease of iiii;- r . 1'he fo:;y of this
eWDtculluU via-, pointed out in th;
House Siiurrt.. oy Representative
Humphrey, siir.wr-d wilt imports
m Jdua.ity ui viin u,..- amounted to
8184,OO0,UOl). la j n.i -i 19 1 J. tuc
last January of tne Pdue biii, lney
amounted to 163,000,000. Bui m
Januaiy, 1913, iUc G vi rnuicnt col
lected flunks amounting to 827,000,
UU0; while in January of this year the
Government collected otiiy 815,000,
000. Imports for February of this
year showed an lucu.isc ov. r February,
1913, of 849,000000, '. r. a decrease
ol revenue ol $8,UUU,U00. And the
treasury deficit gives prumiSv of amount
ing to $100,000,000 tins year. Could
any intelligent child fail to draw from
these simple figures the conclusion
that the rates of the Underwood bill
are too low? In Mr. Humphrey's es
timation, no one but a Democrat could
fail to make the proper deduction, fail
to read the the lesson taught by these
figures, compiled, too, by Democratic
officials. Mr. Humphrey has made a
comparative calculation which shows
that under the Payne law the Govern
ment would have collected during the
last eleven months $105 OOU.080,
more revenue from customs duties
than it has under .he Underwood bill.
With that additional revnue, which
has been a Democratic present to
European manufacturers as is shown
by the fact that prices to American
consumers have been in no way de
creased it w,iu!d nm be nee -sary to
impose in-- direct ax u i
Democrat, invc jt n i.up nu iu i
which they purpose to lucrease. In
stead of admitting their serious mistake
and trying to correct it, the Democrats
are determined to impose still further
direct taxes and then to create a tariff
board and pass an "antidumping
clause" with the hope ol blinding the
voters to the actual facts.
Legislative Incapacity: "It is a
bald and malicious lie," announces
Speaker Clark regarding the charge
that Congress has failed to do its work
with customary expedition and is far
behind with its legislative program.
"Why in heaven's name, would Con
gress desire to remain in Washington
even one day longer than is absolutely
necessary for the proper transaction of
the public business?" inquires the
Speaker. But Mr. Clark is not sincere
in his statement. No one imagines
that Congress desires to stay here long
er than is necessary, or that it has fail
ed to work many hours each day
What is criticised is the incompetent
way in which it works. Congressmen
are not elected to work a given num
ber of hours, but to transact the pub
lic business efficiently and expediti
ously, and now, when Congress has
been in session four months, it ha?
accomplished so little that the Speaker
himself is compelled to admit
that adjournment is not in sight
and may not come until fall. Of course
the Speaker knows perfectly well that
it is the inefficiency of the Democratic
rn.-'j rieties that is being cri icised,
rhat the people do not care when they
werk many hours and accomplish noth
ing, and that they are bound to com
narp thif undecided, vacilliating cours'
I ih- D inoiT.itic leaders with tne
record fr single rnitideduess, precisiot
mid speed which has been set b
numerous Congresses in which the
majorieties were Republican.
Military Inefj iciency: Thf r
ts great r j iicing at the White Houv
because of the deft at which Co'o-i
Dodd administered to Vi la. K i
the War Department tnere is, s i
grave anxiety. The unpreparednt
of the army for the Mexican rxpt-ditioi
which was due solely to Presiden
Wilson's own order against doing sny
thing which miitht annoy Carranza,
resulting in much sickness among th
American troops. Soldiers XDused
the cold nights of the M, xiciTi m
tains with insufficient b ankets a
coming back to the border each da.,
with pneumonia and one efficer has
died. There is much suffering amotu
the troops. Carrar.z continues ti
prevent the use of the Mexican rail
roads for carrying supplies. Suiptr-,
fully armed with the latest type of r.fl
a'id n-ridges "by order of Woudrow
Wilson," continue to fire on th
chauffers who drive the auto-suppb
agous over the long, lonely trail V
General Pershing's headquarters. Tde
military authorities are in constam
dread that Pershing's and Dodd's com
mands have been cut eff. But as th
White H)use motto is "All's well th'
ends well," while the President hop; s
Mat Villa will soon he captured.
Tne Repujub.Kan ujemben ui
Cjiigress voted solidly for the repeal
of the free sugar clause. The hearty
co operation which the Democrats r
ceived from the opposition goes far to
rebut the charge of Democratic lead
ers that Republicans favor a prohibit
ive tariff wall around this country
They favor adequate protection to
American industries, which brings
with it a plentiful supply of govern
ment revenues, collected at the port?,
and paid by the foreigners, and that
is a policy to which the Democras
fi id th mselves obiiged to resort after
their pernicious legislation has depleted
th. United States Treasury. In the
cae of the sugar bill, no amendments
were offered on the Republican side,
aid no dilatory parlimentary tactics
wer' indulged in. This was not so
mucn due to the fear that President
Wilson would again change his mind
before the bill passed, as it was to
unanimous Republican approval of the
m u Tne celerity with wh:ch
the i . -i funded over to the Senate
is in sinking contrast with the obstruc
tive tactics used by a number of the
Democrats who sought to defeat the
measure.
Middlesburg News (N. V.) The
past year has made it convincingly
apparent to every thinking man in
this state that the Republican party of
intelligent, constructive administration)
"The experience of the war has
shown that the strength and safety of
the British nation in time of peril lie in
possession by this nation of the power
to produce its requirements from its
own soil and its own sfactories rather
than in the possession of values which
may be exported and exchanged for pro
ducts and manufactures of foreign coun
The Dreamer's Idea of His Father: "The
shadowing of something enormous and
indomitable a nd lawless conquering
and irresistible and blindly noble."
J? &
ft W 0 I
The WTO Miflir
Br BOOTH TARKINGTON
An American Story Of American Life
For American Readers By an A merican
It is you and me and all of us just we,
the people our town our country
us. And it's no moral tale, nor tale with
a moral unless you care to look for one.
,m? mniny Hi"1 t V
' 5 '$P ? D
m J r
iiliWim mirmiimnniiiiiiiMifcmit inn inn n wilw Mil m re m i mmdm
The Doer's Idea of His Son: "YouVe
cracked! Oh, I got a fine layout here!
One son died, one quit and one's a loon!
Don't let me hear from you again until
youVe waked up; you poor, pitiful, dan-delion-pickin'
sleepwalker you !"
In Book Form It Is the Best Selling
Novel of the Year
It's Our Next Serial! That's All!
Some of the political dopesters now
have it that McLemore and Gore were
really tools of the President in the
recent flurry in Congress. Thus the
process of extracting sunshine from
cucmbers goes on.
Northern Indiania (Warsaw, ltd.)
Surely Democracy cannot point with
prid: to Taggart'i elevation.
tries". Reginald McKenna, Chancel
lor of the British Exchequer. With those
words, the Free Trade school of Man
chester toppled to the ground, and the
shrined Cobden wasbuiied in its ruins.
Meanwhile the United States laborers
under the cold dead hand of the De
mocracy. Every schoolboy knows the axiom,
"The whole is equal to the sum of its
parts." But Mr. Underwood evident
ly forgot his boyhood trainirg when be
drew his renowned "competitive"
tariff bill. That measure provides for
a ten per cent duty on cattle and, lets
in free all the parts that make up cat
tle. The importer of a live cow must
pay the ten per cent advalorem on
Bossy, but the bones, hide, flesh hoofs.
blood, horns, milk and hair of cows
are on the free list. The same incon
ststency exists in certain provisions
regarding machinery. Some machines
pay duty, but all of their parts may be
brought in free. Did Mr. Underwood
regard a cow or a steer as a piece of
machinery or what?
Party Newspapers
There has been a great deal of dis
cussion in the newspapers of late as to
just what constitutes a party newspaper.
The Hillsboro, Ohio, News-Herald asks
the question "What constitutes a party
newspaper," and then answers it satis
factorily with the statement that the
true test of a party newspaper is that it
always stands for the fundamental prin
ciples on which the party is founded.
This is perhaps as good a definition
as could be made. As the News-Herald
states, a great many people make
the test of a newspaper along party
line which ever set of candidates it is
supporting from President on down to
township trustee. But this is not al
ways a reliable test. There are a great
many so-called independent newspa
pers in the ccuutry which support one
party's candidates one year, and an
other party's candidates the next year.
It is evident that a newspaper ol this
sort can be neither Republican or
Democratic.
The real Republican or Democratic
newspaper is the one which can get
back to first principles and take its
stand on the foundation stone of the
party. Of course there are a great
many issues and they are constantly
changing. The free silver issue, the
issue of direct legislation by the initi
ative and referendum, and the green
back issue, for instance, were much
discussed and very popular in their day.
But they were not fundamental party
questions and they flourished and de
clined like the other fads and fancies
of the season.
Since the civil war disposed of
state rights there has been but one
fundamental question dividing the Re
publican and Democratic parties, and
that the question of tariff. If a news
paper, or individual lor that matter, is
in favor of protecting American indus
tries and American labor, he is a Re-
pnblican; if on the other hand, the
newspaper or the individual believes
fiat the interests of the country are
best saved by introducing the compe
tition of foreigners into the home
market without artificial restraint, he is
a Democrat.
Here is the real difference between
the two parties. There may be party
programs of preparedness, upholding
the "national honor," intervention or
watchful waiting and so on, but these
are issues of the day only and usually
do not follow strict divisions of party
lines.
Vet in view of the significant fact
that the fundamental political division
today is one of tariff, there and thous
ands of well meaning individuals in the
United States, many of whom ought 'o
know better, who assert that the tatiff
can be taken "out of politics" by the
appointment of a non partisan" tariff
commission. A non-partisan tariff
commission could only succeed alter
tie principle of protection or the prin-1
c pie of free trade ha3 been absolutely
destroyed and then it would be omni-
partisan and not non-partisan, based
on one principle or the other. So long
at there exists in this country, one
considerable faction of people which
believes that home industries and
American labor should be protected,
and another considerable faction which
asserts that a tariff which restrains free
competition is immoral and unconsti
tutional, the talk of non partisanship in
the tariff is foolish A "oun-parthau"
commission which applied the protec
tive principle in making rates could
be overthrown at the next election,
and one which applied ihe principle of
a revenue tariff only undoubtedly would
be and so there you are.
But to return to the subject of par
tisan newspapers. For a time there
flourished a belief in this country that
the partisn newspaper was archaic,
had outlived its usefulness and that
the so-called independent newspaper
which followed men and not principles
had ushered in a new era in Journalism.
This belief became general because
the people themselves were led off to
follow men rather than issues. But
the reaction has come now, and there
are signs that the voters are again
going to consider principles rather
than leaders. So a reaction may well
come in the matter of. newspaper pol
icy too.
And after all isn't it a pretty safe
plan to anchor your own private little
ship of stat; to the principles in which
you believe rather than to a party
leader? Men may change, but prin
ciples remain the same, in victory and
defeat. National Republican.
SecritarfRedfiejd Peeved
Secretary Redfield is reported to be
distinctly peeved, and rumor is once
more rife that he is to part company
with President Wilson and throw up
his job. This time the cause of dis
satisfaction is the President's change
of mind which resulted in Assistant
of the Treasury Andrew Peters being
sent to the Pan American Trade Con
ference, at Buenos Aires, Argentina,
instead of Mr. Redfield was the logical
representative of the United States to
that Conference, and it is said that he
was already to go when Wilson chang
ed the assignment to Mr. Peters who
left with son-in-law McAdoo and the
adviser in chief of the United States
Treasury Department, Sammy Unter
myer. Redfield remains marooned in
Washington.
This is the third jolt handed to the
Secretary of Commerce by Mr. Wilson
since November last. The first was
when he took exception to Mr. Red
field's activities in regard to prospect
ive anti-dumping legislation. The
Secretary went into that matter with a
fervor that soon had the whole country
by the ears, when Wilson had his
chief bugler, Joe Tumulty, call him
off, and repudiate the Redfieldian
propaganda. Then came Wilson's
eleventh hour conversion to a tariff
commission, alter Redfield had worked
I ke a beaver to have the function of
such a commission lodged in his De
partment. It is said that this slight is
is felt by Mr. Redfield most keenly.
He has played up our trade relations
with South America to the limit, and
the very purpose of the Buenos Aires
Conference is to encourage our trade
with those countries. Just why Mc
Adoo should have been selected to
oandle this job it is difficult to under
stand. As a manipulator of net bal
ance he is without a peer, but his abil
ity to increase a trade balance is seri
ously questioned.
Redfield has worked haid and earn
estly in following out the policies out
lined by his chief. His service, even
though misdirected, deserves better
treatment at the hands of Wilson.
But, like many others, he has found
it impossible to keep pace with the
vagarious mentality ol Woodrow Wilson.
In the midst ol an undertaking he
would find himself abandoned by the
President and as lonely as a dog who
has had a wrestling match with a pole
kitty. Complaints have come so often
to Mr. Wilson of Redfield's energy in
in prodding business men out of their
"state of mind," that the Secretary is
believed to be embarrassasing to the
presidential ambition for a second term
hence Wilson's desire to get rid of him
before Number.
It is a gruesome trail the march
ol Woodrow Wilson upward. Along it
will be found the skeletons of those
who gave their strength to him, and
who when their energies were spent,
w'e left to perish by the wayside. It
began with Princeton and the Proctor
affair. Then Smith, Nugent McCombs,
the three colonels. Harvey, Waterson
and Bryan. Now his former hence
man, Pancho Villa is about to be pushed
over the cliff. Garrison took warning
in time. Will Redfield follow Garri
aon's example and resign before he
stumbler to death? His friends hope
that he will.
