THE BARME DAILY TIMES
VOL. XX NO. 25.
BARRE, VERMONT, THURSDAY, APRIL 13, 1916.
MEXICO ASKS
WITHDRAWAL
0FU.S.TR00PS
FRENCH AVERT
NIGHT ATTACK
ON HILL 304
GODDARD'S HONORS
FOR '16 GRADUATION!
Carfanza Sends a Note to
Washington, Declaring
That the Forces Should
Depart Until Proper For
mal Compact Can Be En
tered Into
I
CROSSED BORDER
WITHOUT PERMISSION
Points Out That the Previous
Notes Stated Emphatical
ly That Permission Would
Be Granted Only on Repe
iiiion of Such a Raid as at
Columbus
Mexico City, April 13. The Mexican
government; lias sent to its ambassador
tit Washington, to be delivered to Secre
tary Lansing to-day, a note asking that
the American toops be withdrawn from
Mexico territory and that the pursuit
of Villa bo left to the Mexican consti
tutionalist army. In its note the de facto
government contends that as American
troops crossed into Mexico without per
mission they should be withdrawn until
a proper formal compact can be entered
into.
It is insistently asserted that the pre
vious notes of the Mexican government
especially emphasized the fact that per
mission for reciprocal crossing of tin
frontier would be granted only in tlis
event of a repetition of a raid similiar to
that made by Villa at Columbus, New
Mexico.
The note was sent to Eliseo Arredondo,
the Carranza representative in Washing
ton with instructions lor delivery "so
ending the negotiations for reciprocal
passing of troops and asking for dis-oc-cupation
of territory occupied by Amer
ican troops in view of Villa's party hav
ing been destroyed.
' Throughout the note emphasis is laid
on the fact that the American expedi
tion was undertaken under a misunder
standing. Although acting in good faith,
the declaration is made, the Lnited
Mates interpreted the first note of ths
de tacto government as effecting a deft
nite agreement between the two nations;
hut the intention of the de facto govern
ment was that no expedition should be
sent into Mexico until the terms and the
conditions relative to the agreement were
defined.
Jimincz, destroying many thousands of
dollars' worth of American property and
looting the town of everything of val
ue. This news, which may prove to be of
the highest importance, as it is believed
here possibly Villa himself was among
the raiders, wag received here yester
day by the representative of one of the
largest American mining concerns in
Mexico and is accepted by him as au
thentic.
The bandits made their attack on the
town on April 6. They came from ha-
calon, a junction point on the Mexican
National railroad, 60 miles southeast of
Jiminez and about an equal distance
southwest of Sierra Mojada, which has
its connection by the Mexican Northern
railroad. On their way to Sierra Mo
jada they sacked the small town of Cor-
rillo. .
ThB belief that Villa himself may be
directing the operations of the bandit
is supported by a report received yester
day from Ojinaga stating that Colonel
Rioias, the commander there, had in
formation that Villa had doubled in his
traks and was 200 miles west of that
town. Ojinaga, is directly across the
border from Presidio. Texas, and about
150 miles north of Sierra Mojada.
Harold Clark of East Montpelier Won
the First Honor, Elsie Welch of
East Corinth the Second, Mil
dred Kent of .Salisbury
the Third.
Honors awarded to students in the sen-
Official Communication at J Z
Paris SaVS the Germans studies during the four years' course at
aVtrvnl u'cra annnitilPDil ill phfl.tlAI fill
Made Preparations for an forenoon, along with the program for
Infantry Charge but Were tu oommenccment. First
" honor was won bv Harold Clark of hast
Prevented by French Guns Montpelier, who is to give the class day
oration. The second honor went to Miss
Elsio Welch of East Corinth, who will
rlnlivpr ihn vslitflirtorv at the commence-
ITTrtTTm tit n T-fc A p(ln t-v I
IMUrll WAS X AOOCjU ment exercises nd the third honor was
UTT'T'TJTVTT'T A ptti TTTV I 'rded Miss Mildred Kent of Salisbury,
VVllxiUU 1 AbllVli I who ia designated as the student who
shall deliver the salutatory to the grad
uatmg class. ,
Commercial department awards were
also made, as follows: First honor, Miss
STILL PILING
UP EVIDENCE
United States May Tell Ger
many of Its Grave
Doubts
AS TO LIABILITY
FOR SHIP ATTACK
Germany's Official Reply Is
Transmitted to Wash
. ington
It Is Evident That the Ger-
, Washington, D. C, April 13. Adrais-
whieh had hoisted sails, had gotten clear
oi tne steamer, he sank the steamer.
"At the time of the sinking a north
northwest wind of the strength of two
not 'a storm wind' and a light swell, not
'a heavy sea' as stated in the given da
scriptjon, prevailed. The boats therefore
had every prospect of boing picked up
very quickly because the place of the
sinking lay on a much used steamer path.
If the crew of the steamer used only
two small boats for saving themselves,
the responsibility falls upon themselves,
since there were still upon the steamer,
the submarine could establish, at
least four big collapsible boats.
The Sussex Case.
"Fifth The French steamer Sussex-
ascertainment of the fact whether the
channel steamer Sussex was danuigcd by
a German submarine was rendered ex
tremely difficult because no exact details
of time, place and attendant circum
stances of the sinking were known and
also because it was impossible to obtain
a picture of the ship before April f). Con
sequently the investigation had to be ex
tended to all actions undertaken on the
day in question March 24 in the chan
nel in the general region between Folk-
stone and Dieppe.
In that region on March 24, a long
black craft without a flag, having a gray
funnel, small gray forward works and
th DmiTC " inv
RIDETHEORY
Mrs. Fred C. Green Said Sho
Had Husband's C' jrit
to Go Autr j
5"
HUSBAND
sr
0
CORF.jORATED IT
Defense in Rich-Cross Suit
Put on Evidence That Cross
Was Not Intoxicated
Sylvia Rizzi of Barre. vtaledictory; second 8'0n Dy Germany that her submarines two high masts, was encountered about
the middle of the English channel by ft
TYiona Ara MoL-inre Pi-ono honor, Miss Ella Wilson of Barre, class recently attacked merchant ships carry tne middle of the English
mans Are MaKing rrepa- hMory. thir(J honor Mis, E(lna Murphv Anviricnn-citj anJ that one of German submarine The .
rations for Another Gi- ,f, Gr"iteyilIo Mlutatory; fourth honor, tllem torpedoed ft vessel in the vicinity " raclied tl,e le"nl
1 OHUllO UI lUWUlCi VII- Alnrnf knnt.nn (if WofrA nnl IM .1 , . .. . ' that it WB B. War Vessel. S
eantic Onslaus-ht Acainst ,. '."m.Tf ',.''.Vi '"'J by po.K u '!';,';f.r ' ' '"'"'-'L '."i".,?,.'
I. . , . . t 1 ""K iyliO fcflOlV VI IIIO otaic Ul 1
account of the suspension of sessions in ,f. , .u 4 . 1
AN ALLEGED CON
FESSION AS PLOTTER
One of Four Men Arrested in New York
Last Night Is Said to Have Admitted
He Acted as Agent of Von Papen.
TROOPS WILL
CONTINUE
THE PURSUIT
Officials at Washington Declared, Pend
ing the Negotiation with Carranza,
Concerning His Latest Objection.
Washington, D. C, April 13 The Mex
ican note raises a new issue, the outcome
of which the officials are retieent to pre
dict; but it was declared in official quar
ters, however, that the American troops
will not be withdrawn at this time at
least and that while the question is be
ing discussed with Carranza the pursuit
of the Villa bandits will be rushed with
renewed vigor.
State department officials took the
view that Carranza 's note vm not a de
mand for the immediate withdrawal of
the forces, but an intimation to begin
negotiations to limit their stay. Offi
cials generally declined to discuss tho
Mexican situation in view of the fact
that the note had not been officially de
livered at the state department up to
noon. Arredondo was expected to confer
with Secretary Lansing later. to-day.
AMERICANS HAD
AN ENCOUNTER
NEAR PARRAL
Commander Gutierrei Infers That It Was.
with Carranza Garrison or with
Residents of the Town He
Minimized It.
San Antonio, Tex., April 13. The
American forces have had an encounter
with either Mexican military force or
the civilian population of Parral. No de
tails are available. The report came to
l-"uuton from Consul Letcher. It stated
that Major Gutierrez, commander at Par
ral. said there mi ft clash, which he
termed unimportant, between American
forces and the troop of the garrison or
resident of Iwrral.
The American entered the town with
the intention of inarching through, en
route southward. An exchange of shot
followed. The inference is that the
troop continued marching through the
town. Gutierrez minimized the affair,
saving that the Americans appeared sud
denly, onheralded, and that the Mexicans
were alarmed.
New York, April 13. Four men were
arrested here last night by agents of the
department of justice, charged with hav
lug manufactured fire bombs, whicn
were placed in sugar bags on the steam
ship Kirk Oswald of the Fabre line on
or about May 2, last. .
According to the officers who made the
arrests, one of the four confessed that
he was the agent of Cant. Franz Von
I'apen, former military attache at the
German embassv. He is said to have
asserted that Von I'apen sent him to
the plant of the Agricultural' Chemical
company in Hoboken, where Kliest was
employed, to "find fault with the ship
ments of lubricating oil which were m
ing sent to Germany by way of Holland
as fertilizer.
Acting Captain Tunnev of the "bomb.
squad declared 2IM) bombs were found
in the oflice of the Agricultural Chemi
cal company and confiscated.
Evidence in the possession of the po
lice, according to Captain Tunney, lends
to show that similar bombs were shipped
to all parts of the United States. Many
of them were transported, he said, in
suit cases as ordinary baggage.
When the steamship Kirk Oswald re
turned here July 10, 1915, from Mar
seilles, it was disclosed that four fire
bombs had been found in her cargo of
sugar and that bombs found aboard the
Itankdale, the Devon City, the Lord Erne
and the Cressincton Oourt. which had
loaded at this port for destinations in
rrance, had been of a similar nature.
Three of the suspects are employes
of German steamship lines. They are
accused of having been involved With
others not yet in custody in fomenting
a plot, widespread in its ramifications
for the destruction of merchantmen.
The men under arrest are:
Ernest Becker, 32 rears old, born in
Germany, electrician on the steamer Kai
ser iriednch De Grosse, said by the
police to have confessed to manufactur
ing hundreds of bomb cases.
(.ptain Charles Von Khest, 67 years
old, born in Germany, superintendent of
the Isew Jersey Agriculture and Chem
ical company of Hoboken, N. J., who ha
confessed, it is asserted, that fire bmlM"
were loaded in his company's place of
business.
Captain Otto- Wolpert, 44 vears old,
superintendent of the Atlas Line piers
of the Hamburg-American line, who is
accused of having received the completed
bombs.
Captain Enoo Bode, 4! vears old, su
perintendent of the Hamburg-American
line piers in Hoboken, who, the police
say, has admitted acting as the agent
of Captain Franz Von Papen, former mil
itary attache at the German embassy,
in visits to the plant of the New Jer
sey Agriculture and Chemical company,
and charged with assisting in the distrib
ution of the bombs.
suspension 01 sessions in , -f , 4U vicuon oy tne ionowing iacis: rirsi, uy
Tanuarv. The baccalaureate sermon ... ,.. r. tL , . . the plain, unbroken deck of the ship;
to be delivered in the Universalis church, ' l second, the form of the stern, sloping
11 c - ilAivnurard n n ,i 1 11, 1- rt-n ri 1 1 L-ii a ua r V U -
ike a war
Paris, April 13.-Anotlier lull has fall- Tuesday, June 20, the commercial class . V"" """'" vessel; fourth, the high speed developed,
en on the Verdun battlefield aa the Ger- M" have its graduating exercises, th "" l"Kt - " about IS knots; fifth, the circumstance
I. i?1",' W.m tob.S nl th. forego.ngjrf TPlin.fr"atr. b1. the vessel did not keep a course
w m - on the morninir of .Time 22 the alumni '" ."' uuummi ic northward ot the light buoys between
v . . . . . . i rt i ActKru . i 4 : r 4 1 i r - . i ...
aer to mi up the gaps in their ranns, to exercise will be held in the chapel, fol- "i--" " " 11 e rules OI Uungeness and JJeaehy Head, which, ac
according to custom, on the morning of
I Sunday,
replace damaged guns and to bring up lowed by the alumni dinner and business
munitions preparatory to further on
slaughts.
It is believed the French command is
not likely to modify its methods. Gen
eral Petin is said to be quite satisfied as
long as the Germans go on losing three
times as many men as the French for un
important results, as he knows he has
on a large scale when an opportune time
comes, and stocks of ammunition which
are practically inexhaustible
Since the first month of the war, the
output of three-inch shells in France has
44 times. Twenty-three times as many
75-millimetre guns are being made now
as in August, 1914, and the manufacture
of heavy guns has increased at the same
ratio
meeting. At 3 o'clock the class day ex
ercise will be held on the campus.
1 his year class day is to occur on
Thursday instead of Wednesday. The)
following program has been arranged: j
ternational law, and that very soon a cordim? to the freauent and unvarvinir
communication designed to give the final observations of German submarines, is
word of the American government on the about the course of commercial vessls.
subject would go forward to Berlin. but kept in the middle of the channel,
lha state department virtually com-Ion a course about in the direction of Le
Dieted the collection of facts relating Havre.
Address of welcome Kenneth Tillotson to tt" attacks on merchant ships since! "Consequently, he attacked the vessel
of Warren- oration Harold Clark of lne J--usiiania. further evidence in the at 3:oo In toe atternoon, middle .uro-
Kat Mnnftnelier- norm Mmm Evelvn case of the Sussex, forwarded bv the pean time, one and one-haJf sea miles
Eaton of Rochester; address to seniors, American embassies at London and Paris, southeast of Bull Rock (Bullock f) bank,
Miss Violet Brieham of Richmond. Hub- to arrive on the liner St. l'aul n- me submarine being submerged, j ne
i ...... horH TnHnn r.f lin.W iinrl Kovldftv. torpedo struck and caused such a violent
r r - M v nr n'i r tr..j...ij.. jj I I T nR. . f f.nn. Ivvnlnatnn isi the fnrirarH nurt of t.hA shin
iv. nam ui luiruwK'K, suurn iu iiiiuci - ."c mhwuivwi i iu u'-c nvoi i - r i r
graduates, Raymond Gilman of Marsh- Germany was communicated to President that the entire forward part was torn
field; presentations, Ralph Mears of Wilson and Secretary Lansing last night. any io me oringe.
Marshfield and Alton Rock of Webster- The official text was expected hourly. It "The particularly violent explosion
i-illn will be eonniHererf Jw h cahinet. at. ifa warrants the certain conclusion that
Speakers for the prize speaking event, regular meeting on Friday. great amounts of munitions were aboard.
ai,i,.h n k i,iA nn .i..nmrr if I (i,.!- ; 1 li e iierman commander made a
increased 33 times and of larger shells Thnrsilav. .Tune 22. hve heen chosen mLioht h th fnrm f ih in)n.ninn sketch of the vessel attacked by him
m . ... .. ... . . " . . . . ' j. : f ...l.:t. l.j Tl,
loiiows: Seniors, Miss Kluabeth Hoar or t, Ambassador Gerard, the purpose of "'"""'K" """" n,c ru' "'"ru
Barre. Mis Edith Virtue of Concord. th rfn,.mT,t n Ju. hno,I !, r:rmn picture of the steamer Sussex, two copies
.Tames Phelps of Marshfield and Kenneth government would be to give notice that 01 wnlon Rr e'""ea. is reproaucea pno-
iillotson ot warren: juniors, .Hiss .ve- the T n teH States eons ders it haa ft " '""'"'.
lyn Irew of Barre. Miss June Martin of great array of evidence tending to prove
riainnem, iiaroia jsancroit 01 mrre ana that , 8pjte 0I reiterated assurances and
Earl Winter of Barre. The students' UWires iriven bv Germanv. r.eaefiil mer-
the Daily Graphic, of the 27th ultimo,
A comparison of the sketch and the
picture shows that the craft attacked is
Paris. April 13.-C.lm prevailed in the concert is to be held on the evening of cnRntmen. carring American citizens or not th the Sussex; the differ-
whole region of Verdun last night, this Wednesday. June 21. wh,ph might hftVe some alK,.rd, continue ence ,nf h P"8'1'0." of ,,e , 8t"ck "d
mornings official communication says. Commencement day exercises, m the to be the victims of illeeal attacks shape of the stern is particularly BtriK-
Preparation was made by the Germans course of which the 1916 class is to re
for an attack on Hill No. 304, but the at- ceive its diplomas, have been arranged in
tack was prevented by the French from the following order: Salutatory, Miw
being carried into effect. No other im- Mildred Kent of Salisbury; prophecies,
portant developments are reported at the Miss Norma, Benls of Turner, Me., and
front. 1 Miss Mamie Hubbard r,t jlancocK; es
say, Misa Vivien Canfiehl of Woodstock;
orations, Adolph Lantx of Websterville
George McCray of Rochester, William
T?TTCCTAXr CTIfO IXT Ouinn of Dorchester, Mass.. George Miep
ivvjwmn n ,,t ririK t... ,a pik win.
GERMANY'S REPLY.
Full Text of Ven Jsgow, Minister of For
eign Affairs, Given.
AUSTRIANS SUNK
mg.
N other attack whatever by German
submarines at the time in Question for
the Sussex upon the route between Folke
stone and Dieppe occurred. The German
government must therefore assume that
the iniurv to the Sussex is attributable
Berlin, April 13. The German reply toltn another than an attack bv a
the inquiries of the American govern- German submarine.
ment regar.ling the steamers Sussex, -For , explanation of the case the
Manchester Engineer. Englishman. Per- fap m.v nrhar. he serviceable that no
Ins ui ah IK 'i K'll .l.rH., A 1114 A vn it'll i hi- .. . it 1 11 1 I ' '
ter of Barre; valedictory, Mws Elsie WI"4val V"1 .Ptln IoIIvl,! les than 26 English mines were exploded
Welch of East Corinth. Tll(! undersigned haa the honor to in- by shots by German naval forces in the!
lorra your excellency, .-vinimssaciur uer- rhannel on the 1st and 2d of Am- I a one.
ard, in response to communications of The entire sea in that vicinity is, in
ths 2th and 30th ultimo and the 3d in- fact, endangered by floating mines and
stant regarding the steamers Sussex, by torpedoes that have not sunk. Oft the
Manchester Engineer, Englishman, Bcr- English coast it is further endangered in
windvale land Eagle Point, that the men- . inoT..inlr deirrea throua-h German
tioned cases, in accordance with our notes mines, which have been laid airalnst en-
Trial of Newell Leighton In the Sharon of the 30t-h and 31st ultimo and the 4th emy nvai forces.
and btn inst-anc, nave oeen suojectea to "Should the Anjerican government have
careiui investigation oy me aauurm siau at ,u disposal further material for ft
of the navy, which has led to the follow- conclusion "P the cae of the Sussex,
ing results: the German government would ask that
First The English steamer. Berwmd- ;t he communicated, in order to subioct
vale ft steamer which wxs possibly the this material also to an investigation.
Berwindvale, was encountered on the t the event that differences of opin
evening of March 16 in sight of Bull ion ,hoiild develop hereby between the
German govern
ment now declares itself retodv to have
Sailing Vessel Imperator Destroyed and
Only Part of Her Crew Have Been
Reported Saved Some of
Them Were Wounded.
Barcelona, via Paris,, April 13. The
Ruseian sailing vessel Imperator has
been torpedoed by an Austrian subma
rine in the Mediterranean. Nine of the
crew, some of them woundqd, have been
landed by ft Dutch steamship.
The Imperator sailed from Gulfport,
Mississippi, on February 23 for Mar
seilles.
CANADIANS INFLICT
HEAVY LOSSES
ON GERMANS
Dominion Troops Given High Praise by
British War Office for Gallant Fight
ing Near St. Eloi.
SAYS LEIGHTON SHOT
TWICE AT GIBSON
Homicide Was Started in Windsor
County Court Yesterday ,
Afternoon.
Woodstock, April 13. The trial
Newell Leighton, 19-year-old son
of
of
i ik w 0H u.., v'.j,:,. Rock light, on the Irish coat, by a Ger- two governments, the
,i. , ., , . ... , 1 man suomarine. 1 ne steamer, soon
Walter, for the murder of Albert Gib-1 . . fio, th .vm,r;. .v,;
son in Sharon, Feb. 24 was begun hero nlnni ,,submorged, turned and steamed
yesterday afternoon, at a special ses- " s, r u
sum of Windsor county court. warning Vhot. She paid no attention
Jhe case is being heard before J udge hever. in this wrnin,r hut extin
L. P. Slack of St. Johnsbury, as Judijo ighed all lights and attempted to es
SHOT AND ROBBED
BY TWO MEN
NEAR SHARON
MEXICAN TOWN SACKED.
Sierra Mojada Reduced to Ashes Ameri
ca Property Lest,
' V'. Pso, Texas, April 13. A band of
Villa lol'ower numbering several hua
JreJ and po:Uy a thousand, have
St-rra Miida. fre irnUt across
H tv-'l.tui Lbs ftcd W miles suut oi
Floyd Smth Was Struck in One Leg and
Lost His Pocketbook and Watch
Officers Are Sent Out
to Investigate.
South Rovslton. April 13. Floyd
Smith, who lives at the home of John
Rhodes, nboiit three miles from Sharon,
was shot in one leg and robbed of his
pocketbook and watch last night by two
men. The wounded man managed to get
home and Deputy Sheriff F. O. Billings
was notified.
Smith had been spending the evening
at th home of George Miort. about a
quarter of a mile from his home, and
as returning about P:I5 o'clock, when
according to his story, he met two men.
(hie of the men shot him in the leg and
then the couple, taking his pockf-thook j
and watch, ran aay, leaving him bv the
roadside.
Officers in nearby towns were notified
and . posse waa organized. Smith is
about 1 year old and attends the high
school. Hi wound is fit eonsid'-red serious.
ixmdon, April id. ihe liritish war
office issued the following communica
tion last night:
'"Last night we made a small successful
raid on enemy trenches near Riehcbourg
l'Avoue. About ten Germans were killed.
"The enemy last evening made three
successive attacks west of the Pilkelm
Ypres road. He first gained a footing in
our trenches, but was quickly driven out
Other attacks were repulsed, the Germans
leaving about 2. dead in front of our
trenches and three prisoners in our hands.
We bombarded enemy trenches in this
area to-day.
"There was considerable-artillery ac
tivity to-day northwest of Wytschaete
and some shelling about Soncher. Car en
cy and Calonne. Behind St. Eloi there
has been heavy hostile shelling, but little
shelling on the front lines and craters.
"It has now been established that the
gallant fighting of the Canadians in this
neighborhood inflicted heavy losses on the
enemy during the last week."
BILL SIGNED AT MILF0RD, N. H.
And Back Strike Pay Was Received from
Headquarters.
Milford. N. IL, April 13 Following the
settlement of the quarrvnien's strike
the granite cutters and the manufac
turers got together last evening and
signed a new agreement that will exjir
in .May, iirzit. 1 ;ie men receive a sub
stantial increase in wages, about S"!
Miles, who on last Friday sentenced
Charle Leighton to not more than 20
years or less than 17 years in the state
prison, was obliged to go elsewhere.
Most of the afternoon was taken up
in securing the jury, as follow: Charles
P. CJiase, Ludlow; Ernest C Walker,
Springfield; Osman F. Godfrey, Last
Bethel; Frank A. Vaughan, West Wind
sor; Charles A. Adams, Bridgewaier
Corners; Edgar D. Morgan, Hartford;
Hazen J. Stewart, Chester; Loren P.
Warren, Chester Depot;-Frank E. White,
Barnard; Henry L. Baker, Stockoridge;
Fred J. Squires, Woodstock; George
Berrv, v oodstock.
Attorney General Herbert G. Barber of
Brattleboro is anisting State's Attorney
B. E. C01 of Windsor in the prosecution
and Tralnor and Bicknell of White River
Junction are represent'ng the respond
ent.
The first witness was John L. Cong-
don of Sharon, who sold the logs to Mr.
Gibson, over which the controversy .rose
that resulted in his death. His testi
mony was practically the same as given
at the trial of Charles Leighton last
week. In his direct testimony he said
the respondent shot at Gibson twice. In
his cross-examination be was not sure
about the boundary lines and could not
say whether or not he owned the logs.
VERM0NTERS AT FAVORITE DISH
Great Crowd Had Sugar on Sn.v at
Nashua, N. H.
Nashua, N. H April 13. Sons and
laughters of Vermont gave their IPth
annual maple sugar party in Odd Fel
low' hall last night. More than
cutters pons.irrs ana blacksmiths being p ttrons ...rprised when the boiling
Indicted on Serious Charge.
Rurlingtom. April 1.1. Sherman
Wade of M'.lton was indicted by
crand jurr yesterday afternoon on
cbarze of iu!t with intent to kilL
r.
tii
the
The agreement wi!l have to ls ap
proved by the national association and the
Granite Cutters' International aocia-
tion before it will be in fon-e.
The committee that effected the set
tlement include Samuel A. Love joy, John
T. Murphy. Anthony J. Rosi, John Ro
man! .nd Arthur Caron for the manufac
turers and Henry Salla, J"hn Ririi, John
Spano. Thomas O'Xeil and Jam Phil-
hrick for the granite cutter
The back strike pay, which a bel I d the supper; ex-Aldrmn Frank Nw-
un bv the international association, ar- j ton boihil the Pip and Mr. I'Sarle.
rived vesterday and the men were -ail Iott as at the head of the iittig
til. room force.
syrup was served on fresh snow.
The entertainment hk-h followed the
siipjier. included piano selection. Walter
Howarth; tiolin solo. Mis Alice Mc
W'eeney; song. Mis l'ertlia Perry of
Hudson: rwi'ation. Miss Pri-cilla lioyd;
piano solo. Misa Klva Moran; reading.
Ned Spaulding.
On t!e dance program were eeveral
old time quadrille and fcntr dnes.
rVei-lent Harold Croft bad general
jchanre; Mr, i harle 11. jir)dr iire-t
cape. Jhe vessel, which was then hrea
upon, halted, and without further orders
lowered several Imats. After the crew
entered the boats and received enough
time to row awav, the ship wls sunk
"The name of the steamer was not es
tablished; it cannot be stated with ss
surance, even with the help of the de
tails which were furnished by the Ameri
can embassy, that the above described
incident concerns the steamer Berwind
vale. Since, however, the steamer sunk
was a tank steamer like the Berwindvale,
the identity of the ship may be assumed
In this case, however, the statement
made that the Berwindvale wa torpe
doed without warning would conflict with
the facts.
Second The British steamer English
man this steamer on .March 24 was
called upon to halt by ft German sub
marine through two warning shot about
20 sea miles west of Islay (Hebrides).
The vessel proceeded, however, without
heeding the warning and wa therefore
forced bv the submarine by artillery fire
to halt after n extended chase; where
upon she lowered boats without further
orders.
After the German commandant had
convinced himself that the crew had tak
en to the bnaU and rowed from the ship,
he sank the steamer.
"Third The British steamer Manches
ter Engineer It is impossible to estab
lish through the investigation op to the
present whether the attack., on this
teamer. which, areording to the given
description, occurred on March 27. in the
latitude of Waterford, is attributable to
. German submarine. The statement
regarding the time and place of the in
cident give no ufTtci-nt bi for in
vestigation. It would therefore be de
sirable to have more exact statement of
the place, time .nd attendant circum
stances of the attack reported by the
American government in order that the
investigation might thereupon be brought
to . conclusion.
"Fourth The British steamer Eagle
Point This temer in the forenoon of J
March 2 " called npon to halt by a
Orman submarine through signal and
shot shout l' ot 13 ea mile from
the southwest coast of Ireland, but pro
eroded, hite was thereupon fred npon
until halted, and, without further ord-rv
lowered two boat, in arih tho crew
took their r-5a--. After t'nr com maid
the facts of the case established through
mixed commissions of investigation in
accordance with the third title of The
Hague agreement for the peaceful settle
ment of international conflicts Nov. IS,
1007.
"The undersigned, while requesting
that you communicate the above to the
government of the United States, takes
occasion to renew to the ambassador the
assurance of his distinguished esteem.
(Signed) "Jagow."
To refute the contention of the plain
tiff, as set forth in the papers filed in thir
case, that the death of Mrs. Scth C Rich
last August was the culmination of a
"joy ride," the-defense yesterday after
noon in county court in the Rich-Cross
case introduced Mrs. Fred C. Green, one
of the party which occupied the Cross
automobile, who insisted that she .took
the trip with the consent of her husband.
Mr. Green, on the stand this forenoon,
corroborated the statement of his wife by
testifying that Mrs. Green had had per
mission to go automobiling at any time
with the defendant. No specific permis
sion had been given that 'night, however,
because Mr. Green was then in Mont
pelier and Mrs. Green was in Northfield.
Mrs. Charles Houston of Rochester,
formerly of Northfield, was the first wit
ness examined this forenoon by the de
fense, relating at length ft conversation
between herself and Mrs. Rich la.st May,
when the latter visited her at her homo
and told of her marital and business trou
bles and difficulties. On cross-examina
tion, it was shown that the conversation
wag the first to be. held between the two
women after a period of II years, during
which time they did not speak.
Jr.vidence was introduced tending to
show that the amputation of the left leg
of Mr. Rich was the direct result of his
having been afflicted with a certain disease.
Concerning Mrs. Rich's relations with
Frank Hutching, another occupant of tho
Cross car on the ride which resulted fa
tally, the witness testified that Mrs. Rich
had told her that Mr. Hutchins had aided
her by giving advice in regard to th
bakery business which she conducted.
When Mrs. Rich took over the business
from her husband, it was not a paying
proposition, according to Mrs. Houston.
Dr. W. B. Mayo of Northfield was re
called this morning and testified that he
accompanied Mr, Cross in an automobile
from Northfield to the scene of the acci
dent three hours after it occurred, and he
was of the opinion that Cross was not
intoxcated then. He noticed the pallor
on Mr. Cross' face, but it was probably
the result of the experience through
which he had passed.
Mr. and Mrs. E. C. Kingsbury, near
whose farm the accident occurred,' told
yesterday afternoon what they knew of
the accident, having been aroused 'from
sleep by Miss Brown. Mrs. Kingsbury
said that Mr. Cross came to the house to
telephone, and there was nothing that
indicated that Mr. Cross was intoxicated.
Mr. Kingsbury and his wife said the night
was very dark and foggy. Mr. Kings
bury did not consider the ruts in tha
road at that point very deep.
NOT SATISFIED
WITH AWARD
FOR ACCIDENT
MONTPELIER'S OLDEST VETERAN
Orrin Daley Died To-day at the Age of
63 Years.
Orrin Daley, ft well known Montpelier
resident, died tin momrng at 8 o clock
at Hcaton hospital in that city, to which
institution hp was taken TuesiSay night.
He sustained a fall ft short time ago,
breaking one hip. He was taken to the
hospital for an operation for hernia.
Mr. Daley was born in W oodburv S.'i
years ago March 27, last. He, enlisted
as ft aoldier in the Civil war, from
Worcester, the date of his enlistment be
ing July 11, 1S3. He was wounded at
Winchester, a., on Sept. IP, 1S4. and
later he was transferred from Company
F to Company A, sixth Vermont regi
ment. He was discharged because of his
wound on Sept. 12, lSti..
On leaving tho army he returned to
Montpelier, where for many vears he was
engaged in the restaurant business, hav
ing ft stand on State street. Ijiter he
wtas in the grocery business and still
ater sold coal. He waa a lii-tcr in Mont
lier for some years, and he was tho
oldest Civil war veteran in Montpelier,
being ft member of Brooks past
Jacob Sommers Takes Appeal from De
cision of the Vermont Industrial In
surance Board and Case Goes
to Windsor County Court.
The Vermont industrial accident board
received notification to-day from Jacob
Sommers of Hartford, Conn., through hi
attorney, Joseph Madden of Keene, N.
11., that a decision of the board affecting
him (Sommers) has not been satisfac
tory and that an appeal to the Windsor
county court has been taken. This is
the first appeal from a ruling of the
board since the workman's compensation
law went into effect July I, 19I.V
Sommers was employed last fall by
the Gay Bros.' Manufacturing company
of Cavendish and on November U, 19l,',
his left hand was drawn into the gcar
of a carding machine, inflicting injuries
which necessitated the amputation of the
index and second fingers of the hand. At)
the hearing held to decide upon the dun
compensation it was contended that Som
mers should be allowed for wages, which
he could reasonably earn after having
learned and become expert at the work
in which he was employed. He asked
for an additional sum than that specified
in the law for the loss of the fingers, or
4.i weeks pay. The board ruled that Im
should be paid only what the law" called
for as the result of the loss of the fin
gers, not what he tnight have earned had
he liecome an expert, and the appeal to
the courts results.
EDWARDS MADE PRINCIPAL.
Former Barre Teacher Chosen to Head
Montpelier High School.
At ft meeting of the Montpelier school
board last evening, Frederic Edward
was chosen principal of Montpelier high
school, to succeed Edward S. Abbott,
He married Hannah Waterman, who ho resigned to .crept the position of
died 12 vears aco. One son survives. I principal of Rutland Inch school. .Mr.
he being Dr. O. W. Daley of White River i Edwards' term of service w ill begin with
Turn tion. There also is on brother.
Sullivan Iialey of Calais, and an uncle.
Benjamin I.tey of Montpelier.
The funeral will ! hei.i from his late
home. IT.i Main street. Montpelier. Sat
urday afternoon at 2 o'clock, and inter
ment mil be in Green Mount ceim-tery in
Montpelier.
the -loe of the present School year.
lYinripal elect Edward is now serving
his fourth year on the faculty of Mont
ixlier hi-h school, having taken a posi
tion there following three years" rvico
on the paii1ding hih school faculty in
Barre. Prior to mroing to Farre. he
LEG AND FOOT CRUSHED.
Ml had convinced himself Out tie beta, I uL
rr.irasred h'-h k hool teaching at Turn
er's Kails. Mis., havinir gone there fol
lowing his graduation from Ilartmonth
college. Mr. f.dard- sucot a a teai h-
George Roy cf St, Johnsbury Struck fcy Ur in Spauldins h gh school mi cnptsnn.-d
Piece of Iron. j t, Motit:-c!:er institution, and hi
St. Johnsbury. April IS. Oorge Roy. "election to the position of priiie;;-! a
25 year old. employed in the foundry at irra ie by a school lrd til.kh f;-ri!
the" Fairbanks shops, a seriously in-imnrh sstisfa.t in over hi moi'. H
inrcd yesterday afternoon, when a ier fa Iwn the TN.r male t- !.t tVte,
j.i.-1-e of iron fell. cTiis'-irg hi leg andlnevt to PniK s-sl A! V 1 1. having '
foot. He was taken to Bright lock ho- 'of the history drjatrttretit of h-d work
and br :rg dire-tor of athMits a !L
