, i
- 7
VOLXXHI. NO 14
HENDERSON VIilLE,.N; C: THURSDAY
V 13 191S
1.00 PER YEAR, IN ADVANCE
.C VX -
:-' X i X
be
jlie county precinct meetings are to
. cotnrriav. April IS, at which
tMt'Clru v.
committees are to reconinieua
mtv board of elections judges
(.,vi"r Vjl'.Xi ii- w3 jj
P 11KL1! SATUKDAY. APBIL 15.
,...rian Oates Anxious That Iiecom
" mindations Reaeh Him Before
W' i of Ii'd of Elections.
re to
These
an" Dvecinct. County Chairman R.
notpV is very anxious that the re-
',, of each meeting is reported' to!
VL aS scon as possible after After. 15
the board OL eieuwus uiccis.iiyiu
S tn nnnoint the various judges and
registrars lor the county. . .
FOK HOUSEWIVES.
coot falls on the carpet, sprinklo
of all kinds require one scant
ii.ik to one quart of flour.
If
rtil'-CK
i tatters
orf :)i 1
BOOSTERS GO
TO ASHEViLLE
OVER 130 STRONG VISIT NEIGH
BORING CITY, DINE AT BATr
TERY I'AIIK; SPEECHES.
REPRf SEWTATIVt CROWD
Y. ai. C. A. BOYS COMING HERE
SECOND WEEK IN JUNE.
Camp Kanuga to Op-en in Early Sum
mer; Large Crowd Expected; Have
Been Coming for Years.
HendersonviHe WrasuWelI Repiresented j
? 10 4 4 l ? I - i
Flying; Many Ladies G.
Never has a more representative
For the past several years the Y, M.
C. A. boys of Spartanburg have been
coming here for their vacation. Pre parations
are being made to handle a
larger crowd this summer than ever
belore. The Spartanburg Herald con
tained the following reference,to Camp
Kanuga: -.. ' .' (
'The boys' summer 'camp, "Camp
Kanuga " will be conducted the second
j week in June, for ten days at Kanuga
Iake, N. C. The association has se-
J. R. HOKE, A SON, MAKING SEARCH
EOR FATHER WHO MYSTERI-
OUSLY DISAPPEARED.
FRANK ISRAEL PARDONED
BY GOVERNOR LOCKE CRAIG.
Recommended , by Solicitor Schenci
Mayor C. E. Brooks. Hon. A. Can
non and Others.
Said to Have Been Offered $50,000 for
i Invention at Which Philin Miclmel
cured excellent equipment, and will Owned Third of Rights,
have the privilege of the entire Kanuga j 1 - ; V -
estate' during the camp. -This estate j Q. J Hoke:-65 vears 'old'.
crowd of HendersonviHe Boosters leit one of the most attractive spots m ' 0f . Hendefs6nville for the bast fou-
Raleigh, N. C, April 11. Governor
Craig granted a pardon today for
Frank-Israel, who . has served six
months of a twelve months sentence
l in UandaTonn mivr n : :
key, the pardon being conditioned on
his not even having any liquors m
his possession in the - future. The J
Cannon, Solicitor S'chenck, Mayor C.
E.. Brooks of Henderosnville and
btherst on the ground that the punish
ment already inflicted is sufficient.
PUPILS
PARADE
PROF. SHITLE EXPECTS LARGER
NUMBER OF. CHILDREN TO PAR
TICIPATE THAN BEFORE.
't "o'i'T Dick up broken glass, but lay a
vtt ciotfi over it and ?ud "pat" it up.,
i'-fior sealed with the white jf au
be steamed' open
palted on the
oo- r-r ii neve
"v.rn .ind water gently
ntif.iilft firm
- t-i ua AI" c 11 w
Pllt .lii
alte. it v
the boundaries of Henderson county
than the one whiph journeyed over, to
! Askeville Wednesday afternoon. There
v.ere 28 automobiles containing over
130 people, including men, women and
children. The party started from the
monument at about - half past three
o'clock and' made the trip in a little
over an hour. -
i
-,pi! in the tin box with the - Large painted banners were carried
,v ill keep the cake moist. by each machine which could easily be
ver sa i atient enjoys cold wa- J read at a good distance. A close
(1 with fruit .juices. i formed parade passed through the
:alads are a great help in ; principal streets of Asheville after
ivs oi "economizing. 'which the party journeyed up-to tne
a; -aU and pepper meat until n mattery t'arK notei wnere aiuner was
:c:.;t half dene. . served and a numbe rof speeches were
. a ill. AT i 1 , 1 t A 11. 7 1 . .
irusu a carpet wiin tne yu, iitaru. Aiuoug tuuse. wiiu spua lum
nt :t. i HendersonviHe were W.. M. Bridges,
: ti-iv.Y." away the coarse, green : .Hir H. G. 'Swart, W. A. Smith and
.l.vo3. I3ry tiiem, they make ; others. Among those who spoke on
,1 iiavoring tor soups. j behalf of Asheville were N. Buckner,
'. .: better to remove the skins j Messrs. Ramsey, Rankin and others.
-it to be eaten by children, j The good feeling shown" among tho
: I citizens of Asheville to the visitors on
j their trip was thoroughly appreciated.
uoys nave oeen interested ana a very
large party is assured.'.'
PROGRAM READY
, Second Annual County Commence.
ment Promised to Surpass Any- x
thing of its Kind.
-1
WOODMEN CIRCLE.
to
The Wpodmen Crcle, auxiliary
the Woodmen of the World.
We are looking forward to a big
membership soon. " ','"'..
On last Friday evening j the ladies
of , the Grove, after the regular busi
ness session, announced a social half
hour, during which, delightful refresh-
years bias mysteriously' Misappeare d
and according to his son, J. R. Hoke j
has not been -heard from f or ' the past j
two -, months. : Friends of Mr. Hoke j
here -thought-that he was on a visit j
to Canton,; but -young "Hoke states thaf.i
he : has made-: a-: thorough search in
Canton -f'or hisifather and so far has '
received, nof information 'as to his
whereaboutsil-;; :- ..-." ''.- '!
; Mr.Hokeior some time past has :
occupied a rented room . iu the home J
of : Mrs. DaveGuice. "A Considerable I
ments were served. Some short lively j . t- '" ,? 78iu Bl 111
talks and toasts from the men added thi5i r.hicnadds to the belief of
mirth to the occasion. - T S ' a J??r" has met I
. !Ll i with- fou; play... According to the son,
Mrs. J. G. Waldorp returned Tues-j JJSjS. Sner l a Pat.eni !
day afternoon from a two weeks' visit r?SSVCh e?Kani na.d j
to her daughters, Mrs. Frank Wilson. "r?8W .?.erJ3. J915 He is;
.'Mrs. Zeno -Brown, Mrs. J. A. Staton,
and her son, Hubert Waldrop, of
Greenville, N. C. Mrs. ' Brown has
Leen very ill, but is better now.
n o v.
a u r o
-a 3 g
3
LU i
RECIPROCITY DAY IN TRY ON.
bif s& IS it
!
Ten ladres, members of the Wo-
j man s club ol rienaersonviiie attenuea
the Reciprocity Day of "the" Western
district of Federation of. Women's
f U OIL
tin ii i i i
m Im uLflull i
to
patent fights of his invention by a ;
; Western ; concern. In sccurting thin;
patents Mr. Hoke sought the aid of j
finlip Michafei;va second hand furni- j
ture. dealer at: one time in business !
nere,'.wcV put alp-the money: to secure i
the paff iit. 41r.-Miciiael is - said to !
own vone UiircL-of the rights: i
j. rR.- Jloke has inc his ; possession
receipt, form of; Calhoun Lodge of A. !
F. & A ?v; 'number 81 showing that h .s i i"v-
father!. vTs.a Mason in
I ' - - t ;i 'i
, " , . . . i
-.. . '-.f "
- -
With everything working and all ar
rangements nearing completion the
i second Henderson county school com-
mencement-promises to be one of the
t' biggest ever held in HendersonviHe.
5 The commencement will be formally
opened at the court house Friday af
ternoon at 3:30 o'clockunder the di
rection of Prof. C. E. Blackstock and
3 Prof. W. S. Shitle, county superinten
dent of education and a groupe of busi
ness men and educator, who have
contributed .in a large measure to the
success of the undertaking. (
Prof. Shitle states that he expects
3,000 to participate in the grand parade
which starts Saturday morning at
10:30 o'clock, May 6. .
All the children of the city schools
will participate and a majority of
those of the county. Each class will
have a handsomely decorated float de
picting some historic event of symbol
of his patricular locality.
Nearly $100 will ,be awarded in
prizes in various contests to be held
during the two days program."
A special ruling has been made bj
the committee in charge that any man
! or girl who has won a medal in the
; declamation, recitation, essay contest .
! last year will not be eligible in the
contest this year.
clubs of North Carolina.
SEXT
FOK FRENCH GOVERN-
SPENDS DAY IN RENDER-
! i
SOXTILLE SEEING CR0SSTIES
ORUtR PLACED
local Dealers Are Said to be Filling
10U.0OO Order for Foreign Gorern
liient; Had Interpretatdr.
MRS.
R
The essays for this year must not
Senator T B. Allen, of Mills River- contain nvp.r 1ftOO wnrds and mus nr.
good . standing r Mr
aunng .t,ie; yrur;aaj4 ..bine.- living, m nomination of Senator to represent number of. words should be noted at
w.' uuae.uds iiiuui.-; Thirtv-SpronrJ Senatorial rtist.rip.t" th Hnttnm of tho oo-Q e v, o,-
- . -t -v pwwwf- wjl - uabo vj. cooavi
i nenaerscnvii
! the acaur.int;
?S. M. A. BROWN ARRIVES TO Masons
'ENOVATE WELL KNOWN HO- mArancV "v
TEL; IS GUESTS THIS WEEK. through :
. ; bJy-be.iEa.Ia
' ' ' IMi. XT -' .
Mir. H;
icevof '& number of local
wb'en told of his disap- j
e surprised. A search
ic channels will prdba-.',
t;once.::; j. j
tormely of LIncol
of North Carolina.
ore has a foreign agent visited this Ramsey.
Pity for the direct purpose of inspect- i Woman's Club Mrs. Wk J. Cocke.
n?. and shipping to his native country. HendersonviHe Woman s Club Mrs.
itms week a Mr. Bresshier and his in- i e. w. Ewbank. . a
fttrpretor, for he could not speak En?'-; Waynesville Woman's Club Mxti.
ph, visited HendersonviHe and in
spected a large shipment of cross ties !
or tne drench government. It is said
fhat one local dealer 'has a contract i
nth the government for 100,000 cross
Jties. The Southern SuddIv company i
pi Asheville has, .it is understood, a p, Kinsey.
f till larger contract for the same gov- ; Bryson City
pnment - Lillian K. Frye. -
Black Mountain
A very interesting program wat
rendered to quite a large gathering
from this part of the State. It was ,
decided to hold the meetings here next, .
yean v. --'. .-'-
The following was, the program: ; f ,
Address of Welcome Mrs. J. L. ,;
Washburn. . LxpectsOne cf the Largest Seasons the world and this is the first time he
Response Mrs. C. M. PJatt. ; in History of Hendersonville; ; ha s ever been out of communication
Five minutes report from tne presi- Mailing Advertising Matter. with hi Ron. Yo,. Mr wnlro
J i 1 ..V, M " ' O .
ueiita ul iuc uuua.
fs lift) c poji: nnfinor
Vti iuiL-UyLiUUilOL r.-4 a millwright by
trader Except for some Tumors ItTs
i not thought that he had an enemy in
V'h.ile Hendersonville has no doubt
furnished many commodities for the
belligerent countries since the war
especially in the products of the hos- j
tery mills of the county, yet not be
Current Literature Club Mrs. E. P.
Childs.
Friday Club Mrs. Mary W. Wil
liams. Mia ninn-i-Mro T W Wolfe.
t Trnvpipr's f!lnh 'Miss Elizabeth
;''.. TT A , , , 'm svery anxious to secure some trace ol
Park Hill Hotel has opened for tne ; hi& father and has asked the officials
season. Mrs. M. A. Brown, the pro
prietress, who has just returned from
spending the winter in Florida, is exT
pecting a party of eighteen guests this
week. She has had for the past week
a large force of servants thoroughly
renovating thip popular tourist hotel
for the season.
"Prospects are exceedingly bright."
said Mrs. Brown to a Hustler repre- i room
sentatlve. Early inquiries have been were
to aid him in . his search.
Mrs Wilkins Entrains.
Mrs. Jno. T. Wilkins entertained the
jHyman Heights Croquet club Satur
day afternoon. .. . After a couple of
iHlK
w a- m mi
UU I
10 u
i. .1 D T. I El F, u
W01I
4 3
p
r
i-
si II
a m n
In
All essays must be into the hands of
the County Superintendent's office on -,
or before April 25.
j There is. to be a very important
meeting of the county : teachers on
Saturday, April 22, to wind up the ar-
r&gements of the county commence-;
HONOR ROLL OF GRADED SCHOOL"
EIevenlh Grade.
. .. Miss Steedman, Teacher.
Loee English," Mack Jones.
Tenth Grfle, -Miss
Steedman, Teacher.
Nelle Garren, Muriel Fuller, Horace
Grey, Willie Lou Jordan, Mary Hoylo.
; Ninth Gradew
Miss Hill, Teacher.
hourj? work and nisasant onvprsatinn ! Told of Hospital Work Among Chinese. Katherine Bacon, Lenora Jackson,
the ladies wer invitPiT into th Hinin Wffl Return Sometime in Dec vada Orr, Jewell Stepp.
-
GAVE VERY INTERESTING AD
DRESS ON HER WORK IN THE
FOREIGN FIELD.
QUEER CUSTOM
where relightful refreshments
served Those present were
At PresbytftTian Church.
I
Eighth Grade,
Miss Youmans, Teacher.
Marion 20th Century Club Mrs. R. directed to Park Hill hotel this season Mrs. F. A. Barter. . Mrs. McColough. Th ladies of Hendersonville heard jaary tirown, Annette Brooks, Ber
t iturton
Highlands Improvement Club Miss
M. A. Ravenel.
Murphy's Woman's Dozen Mrs. L.
n o won Alio ; Mrs sum instino tCto n. w i,(;l !a lecture bv Miss Elizabeth Corriher tna Jamison, Everett1 Patterson. Hazel
V - m-m tV M. UM.wm.vV. lilt O, VJi IT . U UO lLV3 1
Friendly Club Mrs.
FASSIFERN.
Woman's Better
ment Club Mrs. E. L. Sutton.
Canton Woman's Club 'Mrs. H. D.
Tryon w Lanier Club Mrs. W. 'I.
house during May and June. The nin?
hole golf links on the beautiful lawn of
Park Hill Is being put in excellent
shape. This was quite a popular fea
ture for the guest of this hotel last
season. i ; jv&
Mrs. Jack Dickens, Mrs. N. W. Miller
and Mrs. Nathan Beasley.
Mrs. . Joseph A. Miller of Brevard,
spent Wednesday with Mrs. Vance
Norwood.
(Evelyn Graham.)
Miss Mary Preston ShinD of Raleich. .
po is spending: sometime in Lincoln- Tindsev.
with friends, spent several days ; Organization, election of officers.
Here this week with her sisters, Mrs. J Moonlight School Movement Mrs.
ilcEee and Miss Kate C. Shipp. - i W. Whiting.
Misses Sampson, Betty Heyward, Wild Flowers in Western Carolina
Jane Ruffin, and Mary Dameron spent MisS Margaret W. Morley.
IV ednPCi-lilir in Ai-dnirilln r.iTniinT
liss Charlotte Hamblev left Wed-
pesday for Evansvilel. Indiana, where
pe goes to attend her brother's wed-fiiEg.
The fourth eroun of the Episcopal
pxiilary, under the leadership of
Philatlieas Entertain.
Invitations were sent out last week
by the Philateha class ofr Methodist
church in the following rhyme:
"The Methodist philatheas invite yoa
to seek
week.
The Terrace, Mr. Wetmur's home is
designed
For the pleasure of all, please bring
a dime."
i Over sixty responded and tne oner
! ing basket, presented at - the door by
!Miss Bessie Hodges was generously
"ss Alice Leak, sold ices, cakes and An evening of fun on Thursday of this
Quuj baturdav pvpninir rlpar.in2' S8.60
Fter all expenses were naid
Miss Kate C. Shinn and Miss Hooner
fl'ent Saturday at fry on, where they
w to attend the Reciprocity meet
aS ol tiie 'vV'orrnan Pin he of Wp.st.ern
fowud in by shelt'rinar mountain walls, filled, the receipts for the evening be-
On rest! ig $16.80.
V. U('fP In T.c WQ c ovor -Poitav eicrhr I nr- Wfnfmnr'o TinTYl A WAR attraCtlVe-
nau thy broad portals, gleaming fair ly decorated in harmonizing shades of -
and WllitP 1 n-.r,nr, otiA iriallrtW
P' lOitV tilOllhtc -.f truth gnd'mirA.t rntiirorcation WflS MliOyed Until a
neS,S hlp-itV -i x i Valt hainir rnnir flVfilT
ironi thp hrnrovk V.
,li Ul Cll Jf at" J.JJ. 1,1X1 CO JXIdlAALiCiO W x.
Quest. i Tuct hofnro th e-npsts obeyed the
e go forth thv HoiiorhtArs f!iP3!'4!in.HnTi tr. "Mifrh Rail to the Puncli
Df1ghC iBowl" which was presided over by
-rts aglow, to enter in the Misses Pope and Purkey, Mr. Hal
i Whitfield created much merriment
win by courage, zeal ' with a
' danced
music renaerea.py j
A PHILATHEA.
Pf life
And
And
n&nt
strive to
&ud zest.
"dummy clog dancer who
in . perfect accord with the
FhoiIii years
J1lci iinSo owoir
U'.v lite bo for avfi
iV" -
' ttAont the storms of w.intpr to im-
1 pair -
ta;s (,1V
,.,r
' - ; - u for many
Still 17
1V llrv,, .. i
fa-r - Uiy famej uPllfted high and j
Fassifern. J0SEPHINE SMITH,
may come and years
a month of
as thou seem'st to me
fcspir" years
Hides 6f sea lions are being used:
for leather by Canadians.. x
Rev Z. A. Shipman will preach at
Locust Grove Baptist church on the
third Sunday in - Apr.H at 11 o clock.
Also, th0 Saturday before at 3 o'clock
in the afternoon. ' '
Mr and Mrs S. "V. Pickens have re
turned, from' Florida, where they spent
the winter.
Let Other Folks Do All the "Knocking;
You Help Us Boom Our Home Town.
PERHAPS you have never heard of Daedalus. Maybe the name
of Talos is just as strange to you. , .
Well, it doesn't make any difference.
The point is that one of these two ancient gentlemen IN
VENTED the SAW. Pliny says Daedalus did. Apollodorus
gives the credit to Talos. v
It happened this way: Talos (or Daedalus, if you prefer Pliny)
found the jawbone of a snake and employed it to cut through a
piece of wood. Then he formed an instrument of iron like it and
thus gave the world the first saw.
And the good old universe has been sawing wood ever 6ince.
WE ARE SAWING WOOD RIGHT HERE IN TOWN NOW FOR
ALL WE ARE WORTH. WE ARE TRYING TO ATTRACT NEW IN
DUSTRIES AND NEW BUSINESS ENTERPRISES HERE.
You are interested in this movement, and so is this newspaper. -This
paper. has been in the front in every effort to attract new
blood. We have GOOD STORES ;and BUSINESS CON
CERNS here NOW, but we are , GROWING, and we welcome
NEW ENTERPRISES that BRING MONEY to town and
MAKE MONEY here. - : ; v
You can help along in this boosting crusade by keeping closely
in touch with this )aper. Read it yourself.- Send it to your rela
tives or friends. 'We 'trunk' we deserve your support because we
are helping through publicity. to. build up the town.
THIS TOWN NEEDS THE HELP OF THIS LIVE WIRE PA
PER. . WHAT WOULD THE TOWN BE WITHOUT IT? WHAT
WOULD ANY COMMUNITY BE WITHOUT THE AID OF THE
PRESS TO HELP SAW WOOD FOR TS CITIZENS?
WE ARE SAWING WOOD.
YOU SHOULD HELP US. - '
of the Chinese mission field Sunday Patterson, Alletta Plank, Eleanor
afternoon at the Presbyterian church. Plank, Garland Sherman.
Many were surprised-to hear of the. Sixth Grade.
i unusual fetters that still bind people i. Miss Aiken, Teacher.
One inference from the lecture was Patterson, Floy Jackson, Raymond
that the Chinese have a just fear , of English, Helen Johnson, Dessie Dixon,
evil . spirits but try to secure them- Ruth" Black, Gladys Glenn, Wylma
selves from them in a most unreason- Cievenger, George Merrell, 'iSdward
ble way. They make their streets in- Patterson, Roy Williams, Denholm
credibly narrow and crooked because Reed, Julia Reid, Marshall McCrary.
they think, under those circunlstancs j Fifth GraL ;
it will be difiicult for spirits to finc I Miss Shipman, Teacher,
their way in them. Often a wall 13 Mary McCullough, Elmo Thompson,
put up in the street to .divert the Nanna Shepherd, Seprepta Bowen.
spirits in another direction. They pour Mjrtice Brooks. Odessa Case, Chris
boiling water on dogs and cats in tine Justice, Scott Coburn, Carl Emb
which they believe the spirits of de- ler. Martha Gilreath. CTark Kendell.
ceased persons to be. . i Fourth Grade.
The Chinese believe their idols are ! Miss Dotson, Teacher.
Ruby Bennett,
alive when they haVe an insect on
them, and wives, who have driven out
of their homes because they have no
sons, go to the goddess cf mercy, an
idol with a thousand hands, and pray
for sons.
Mildred Calvert,
Carlton Clouse, Helen Drafts, Clarence
Flynn, Nellie Morris. Lou!se Morri3,
Sidney Michaels, Gladys Mason, Her
bert, Macer Daphne Pace, Glenn Pat
terson, Frank Read. Bertha Shipman,
The missionary hospital is a most 'Mac Williams, Hasel Ward, Reginald
extraordinary asset in gaining con- Young. !
verts. It has been and is the custom;-.- Third Grads. .
in China for a man to bite out a piece - Miss Stansel. Teacher,
of his arm when his mother gets sick,) Frances Bacon, Dorothy Brown,
and . to cover a serious burn with tho j Claire Burdette, Mamie, Beck,
skin of a chicken. Denominational- '. Aliene Ellison, Ella J. Connor, Frances
ism. means nothing to the Chinese but Gilreath. 'Marie Garren, Ruth Hayes,
they recognize a Christian at sight. Lcuise Matthews, Adaline Mi!ler Ma
One of their principal reasons for not rie Wilkins, Ena Williams, Sarah Val
giving up their present religion is the en'tne,, Katharine ..' Valentine, Oliver
fear, that they will not have anybody Carsron, Olin Cievenger, Francis Drake,
to feed them in the next world. ;Wilber Hinds, Fred Howard, Earl
Much of interest was told about the Howard. Ralp Kinder Albert Mcln
cvstoins of the celestial empire which tosh, William L. Orr. Carlton Scofield,
survived in the republic. A gentle- Grayson Stepp, Leon Wetmur.
man seldom has a mustache before he
is forty years old and shaves only once
a montn.
Second Gradk
Mrs. Patterson. Teacher.
Pauline Brown, Myrtle Brock, Irene
It is not unusual to see a gentleman 5 Brooks, Walter Davis, Grace Freeman;
Lholding both sides of his skirts in his Clande . Fuller, Elizabeth ;Feaman,
hands and a woman of the servant 8 VemOn Henderson, Albdrt rchael.
class wearing trousers. Boys and Elbert Murray, Uva Shipman, B. Stepp, -
girls dress pracicaily alike. The Jap- Ethel Scofield.
anese jinrikisha and the wheelbarrow j
are used as a means., of traveL where
the streets "are wide enough, but lr
some cities the streets are not wid
erough even to travel in a wheelbar
row. . J ' r
Miss Corriher hopes tc return to the
mission field in December.
iliss Jennie .Ecwen left on Monday
for Rawlins, Wyo for a stay of sev
ehav weeks. She will visit her sister
m Mena, Ark-j before returning.
First Grade.
Miss Crowder, Teacher. ,'.
Bobby Allen, Minnie Sue Flynn, St.
r.lara Guice, Jtfildred Holtzclaw, Thel
nia Orr. Marjorie Orr, Annie Williams,
raret Rozier. 'Madeline Justice, Joe
Byers.
First. Gmle.
Miss Briggs, Teacher.
Geo. Drake, Jack 'Sliison, Lloyd Gal
lamdre, Ola Hill, Irene Holbert, Frank
Israel. Jaennette Justus, Jno. Mason,
Jr., Violet Penland, Flora Reid. .
1
