ffhe Summari Tlews
oovvtAf
ii'O-u- -o-o-o-o-oo-e-o-o
Largest Circulation of Any
I'apcr in Quay Coanty
n-nn'0-o-o-o-o-oo-oo-e-o-o-o
O-O-O-O-O-O-O-O-O-6-O-0-O-O-O-O
Adrertlnera Know Whore to
Place Their Ada
(1-9-0 -O-O-O-0-0-0-O-O-V-O-0-O-0
l
AND TUCUMCARI TIMES
VOL. XIV.
TUCUMCAHI, QUAY COUNTY. NEW MEXICO, THURSDAY. APRIL 13,
NO. 211
GRAIN ELEVATOR MAN
WILL BE HERE FOR A
TRIP TO WHEAT BELT
A meeting of the business men of
Tucumcnri was called for four o'clock
this evening to plan for tho booster'
trip over the plains, that has ljccn con
templated for sometime. Tho trip has
been delayed to await the arrival of
a grain man whom it is desired to
interest in tho establishment in Tu
cumcnri of a gruin elevator. Definite
word has bem received fioin him to
tho effect that he will arrive hare next
Monday evening, und the excursion
will be made Tuesday, April ISth, witn
a G o'clock start. Everyone that can
go is invited to do so as it is desired
that the excursion will be made a gen
eral advertising and boosting trip.
A committee on nrrungemenm was
appointed, who will solicit automo
biles, and assign to seats those who
desire to go who do not own onrs. Tho
farmers over the plains aro expecting
the visitors, and C. L. Bums, and II.
0. Norris, of House, have advised that ,
the tanners in their district will have themselves "overtime" is commonly ro
"cota" a "spread" or in other words, ferred to as "blood money" and saps,
dinner, prepared for the entire party, in the lone; run, the very life out of
Those in a position to have knowledge the employees. Overtime iH road scr
state that the citizens out thort cer- , vice and is due almost always to tho
tainly know how to set a sure "nough j practice of the railroads overloading
"sprend." their trains and so it becomes im-
Following is a list of parties who possible for the trains to make this
have already Htated that they desired mileage within their time limits. It
to go, if possible, and furnish cars, , elearly evident the railroads are do
und most of those named have pledged ; jnK this for profits. In fact, it is so
themselves to go. 'admitted by them. And if they pro-
.Messrs. Jones, White, Sisney. WoJ- p0o to demand this extra service at
ford, Smith, Foyil, Westbrook, Cutter, tin- sacrifice of the health and future
Itonem, Adair, Corn, Whitmorc, Col- j earning ability of the men. they should
donborg Colliiih, Manney, Putmun, Al-1 Hum pay extra for it. It is a poor
Ion & Denly. Pack, Coulter, Engor, 1 lulo that won't work both ways and
Quinlnn, Shaw and Howen. j increased earnings to the railroads
It is believed flint the time is ripe 1 should likewise be increased earning
for tho establishment of an elevator to the men who make this increase pos
in Tucumcnri, as it is said that there sible to the railroads.
are Mom JiO.OOII to 10,000 acres plant-
ed in wheat this year in the county, I
and Tucumcnri is the logical trading
point for the farmers. Many of the
farmers have stated that they pre
fer to bring their grain in here. It
is intended to show in the excursion
that the farmer;! in the county and
the business men of Tucumcnri all
.vn nt an elevator and that they will
upport the same if it is established.
The entire day will bo spent in the (
trip, and all who go will be pxpected j
to set their clocks early, and lie down
in town ut 0 a. m. HR A ROOSTER
FOR YOUR HOME TOWN AND FOR
QUAY COUNTY.
in this week's News appears the
announcement of J. A. Conway for
Superintendent of County Schools.
Mr. Conway has been a resident of
Quay county for the past ten years,
having filed on a claim in the fall of
1000, and since that time has been
actively engaged as teacher in tho ru
ral schools of the county. Therefore,
lie thoroughly understands the needs
of the rural schools.
He was born in Cherokee county,
Texas, where lie wns reared. When
about fifteen years of age he moved
with ltis father to OM-ihomn, whore
he recMwd the gi.nl- part of his
education. He attended the Central
State Normal, located nt Kdmond, Ok
lahoma. He holds a llrst grade eci
lilieuie. which is evidence that he has
been examined in twenty different sub
jects and only one below the ninei
pur cent mark.
At the close of the Quay county
Normal last summer, Mr. Conway was
chosen chairman of the Quay county
teachers' association, and since that
time has been putting forth cvcij. ef
fort to rouse a more piogio-.Me and
educational spirit nmong he leach
rs of the county.
.Mr. Conway is now tt aching '.en,
Hniilcy, twelve miles southwest of
Tucumcnri and has made hosts of
friends in this city and surrounding
country. The other tiny a number of
Democrats were talking over the list
of candidates for various office mid af
ter weighing Mr. Conway's chances In
ihe political balance one of the men
said, "Well, Conway is the man-we all
seem to favot and is properly quuli
lied for the position, .-o let's pins that
subject by and take up some other
otllce." This shows Mr. Conway will
pull u large vote in thi part of the
woods.
. He is tliirly-oiie jour- old, a man
of u family, and has always voted and
supported the Democratic ticket. This
is his llrst time to nsk olllce and should
the voters of Quay county honoi him
with the nomination and afterwords
elect him to thu olllce of County School
Superintendent, that olllce will be well
taken care of by Pi of. Conway.
JACK CHAPMAN IN.IURF.D
Jack Chapman, who was run over
and seriously injured l. a bad horse,
is now In the Physicians' hospital. Ho
ik miffm-lni' considerably and it is fear-
mi liv bU friends that his injuries will
result in the hiss of his mind.
Mr. Chapman lived near Tiabaii,
and has relatives there. His mother
and brother nre hero from Rochester,
Toxos, assisting In every way they
can.
eight hour day for
train service employees
In the concerted movement of the
font' train service organizations, viz.
The lirothorhood of Locomotive En
ginccrs.
The Ilrothcrhood of Locomotive Kin
mun nnil Englncmcn.
The Order of Railroad Conductor.
The Hrotherhood of Railroad Train
men.
Not a cent of additional pay is de
manded liy the men except for time in
excess of eight hours, for which time
and one half it asked only when the
Hpeed of the train fall hclow RiMs
hours per hour, and on roads that pay
the men at the rate of a 10 hour day
oh 10 hours for I Oil miles service, an
8-hour day, or 12M- miles per hour, in
asked at the same rate of pay.
By far a lame majority of tho rail
road employees do not want and over
time. If the railroads complain that
time and a half means in some in
stances an increase, then it is within
their power to cnti: el avoid that in
crease by first avoiding that overtime,
for that is the desire and purpose of
the employees formulated in their
present demands,
Time and a half is merely a "pen
alty" imposed on the railroads and is
considered an effective method of nro-
venting, overtime. Uy tho employees
The physical and mental strain to
the employees in train service who aro
compelled to work long hours is be
yond the comprehension of the average
mind.
Virtually all the old line and acci
dent insurance companies classify rail
roading as extra hazardous and many
0f them refuse to insure railwav em
ployces on account or the gront risk
of loss, and where these employees arc
injured there is a definite amount set
,,n tho risli. and an extra charge is
mudo to the insured.
President Elliott of the New Haven
Railroad declares that if the demands
of the railroad employees, for shorter
hours oClabor, are granted. It will in
crease the cost of living by limiting
production. He fails to mention the
fact thnt the Nv Haven (the road
ho represents) has lost between one
and two hundred millions in the last
ten years through mismanagement by
unscrupulous ofllciuls. Other ronds,
suffering the same fate are the Ron
ton it Maine; the Chicago & Alton,
which Hnrriman looted; the Rock Is
land; the Frisco; the Missouri Pacific;
the Snntn Fo; the Union Pacific; the
Omaha & St. P.. and nearly all the
roads throughout the country.
Shall the working man be refused
an eight hour day in mder thnt the
finnuiinl jmron may have more velvet
with which to "juggle" with the rail
roads supposedly run as business in
stitutions, instead of making out of
them private grafts? They can easily
give the employees an eight hour day.
The railroad employees are merely
asking that the public approve this or
der of things and the effort on their
pint, that public opinion will enable
them to tret reasonable working con
ditions, viz:
Kight hours leep; s hours work,
and 8 hours relaxation.
An eight-hour day for train service
men means HKMIKR KFFICIKNCY,
and higher cfllcioncy means INCRKAS
ED SAFF.TY to the traveling public.
D. K. DAIL.
THE Y. W. A. CLUB
The Y. W. A. Club mot April -Ith.
nt the home of Mrs. Neal.
Several topics of interest were dis
cussed by the different ones present,
also a lending entitled "Aunt Jane."
Aunt Jane Wiggins, who has been to
the city, and members of the village
Missionary Society, are the charnc
tern.
Scene The Church parlors.
The rending was given by u mem
her of the club and was enjoyed by all.
Delicious refreshments we e rtd by
the hostess. At the departure of tho
guests each declared Mrs. Neal a most
charming hostess.
The next meeting day will he April
18th, at the homo of Mrv. Geo Lock
ett. All members of Mrs. Cusack's Sun
day school class nnd of the Club, are
urged to be present.
(Member of tho Club)
! NOTICE
i All those knowing themselves, in
dehted to mo in any way aro request
ed to please call and settle, us I have
sold my store nnd desire to close up
nil accounts. DoRoy Welsh,
2t Norton, N. M.
YOUNG DEMOCRATS ARE WORK- 1
ING UP MUCH ENTHUSIASM IT
WILL BE STRONG ORGANIZATION
The young Democrats held their
regular meeting Inst Friday night and
were a little late getting started on
account of the grand jury heing in
session.
Tho meeting was called to order by t)ur leader, President ilsou. fol
tlio president, Isaac Kirkpntrick. and;')vs h precedents of the most illus
after business matters were attended ' trious men who have occupied the
to the members were addressed by "Presidential Chair, and the button with
Hon. Albert Calisch. who spoke in;'t
part as follows:
Mr. Chairman, Gentlemen, Fellow
Democrats:
To assemble such u company of men
as I see before me means loyalty to a
cause, effort, and endeavor, and you
collectively, arc to be congratulated ,
upon organizing such a 1'uprcsenUitivii
body. As a volunteer under our ban-
iiui, mi.- uumwiiwini, i ii.-i.-i uuuu-
ly honored to lie with you this even-
ing:
Firstly, because of being of this as-'
.n... iif iif' u .1 rp if. i r..r.i .i..ii
fumbled organization, mid secondly,
because of my candidacy for the sen
atorshlo of our county, being recog
nized and credited by you. To be so
recognized is indeed matter for right
eous pride. Whut u rich heritage to
own, to hnve the knowledge of being
tecognized as following in the foot
steps and continuing precepts of tho
oldest masters of civilized time. De
mocracy, the rule of the people, not of
the nristocint, not of the few over tho
many, not for individual aggrandise
ment, but the greatest good to the
largest number
I was t eared m such an atmosphcro
us this from earliest childhood. Real
ly my earliest years were saturated
with the essence of Democratic pa
triotism. Like the lad who was not al
lowed to sit at the family table, years
passed before he learned n chicken
possessed anything but neck, so 1. in
like manner grew to be of quite ad
vanced years before learning therij
was any other party than the Demo
cratic, and 1 have hardly awakened
to the fact of there being another,
yet.
My first presidential vote was cast
with much self-acclaim and approba
tion for Grpvcr Clevclnnd .'15 years ago
and I have gloried in it ever since. To
have n purpose in life, one in which
you are in real camel, and your acts
and professions bear out expressed j
views, must eventuate in conveying to
others that enthusiasm so much desir
ed. It therefore behooves every pro
fessed Democrat to work for his stan
dard zealously and until ingiy until the
goal, the rule of the people, DF.M
CRACY, has been reached. I have no
political official record to .stand on, nor
any comparisons to make with the
past, by which to base a future plan
on which to fight for the welfare of
Quay county, but if honest, straight
forward, Democratic performance, ami
tho care of the interests of the whole
people count, If elected ns your sena
torial representative, I will have an
accounting to produce which will not
be lacking on the side of ell'ort. For
the present 1 can onl state that I
have business interests in (his coun
ty, nnd I unsuic you they tiro operated
lit n profit. I have always believed i'i
energetic industry. To lie serious re
garding duty. To begin nothing with
out finishing it. and to study the de
tails of a situation with my whole
mind. I believe; with ordinary talent
and extraordinary perseverence, re
sults can be obtained, (if there are any
reporters here this evening, I want
them to get that down. This is one
kind of seed that will grow in tin
section). Fellow, DEMOCRATS! Acts of om
ission are more disastrous than those
of commission. There nre many of
vou here this evening who have saitl to
himself, "Gee Whiz; I wish I had at
tended to that matter," or had aid
something at the time, or done some
thing toward completing a proposi
tion mid so on, ad fluitum. "Do it
now," is a good axiom to follow. A
friend asks another: "How do yon
find business?" "Hy rustling like - -for
it" That's the spirit boys. No
matter what you go after, do it m
though you really want it nnd your ef
forts will be rewarded. It is true that
t.rc'.t achievements come from real
human need, but we can make our own
opportunities and carry out our own
plans to successful Issues. President
Wilson Jins observed the truest spir
it of Americanism in appealing to rea
son before appealing to force. Wo
want no grotesque, flagrant, or pas
sion inciting spcctnclo.'i or controvers
ies. What wo do want is clean, able,
progressive, honest, constructive leg
Islation to help upbuild our County,
uplift our people, und to aid them to
the enjoyment of our works. Wo want
to spreml tho gospel of lawful, peace
ful living, to set the example und to do
whatever is In our power to make
Quuy county, New Mexico, a place to
be sought for, as a place to make n
home to dwell n Till- button (iiuh '
eating the Wilson. "Safety First" but- J
ton on the lapel of his coat) warns you '
"Safety First." Follow H and you
will have safety always. ' I
motto, originated by a personal
menu oi mine) was the logical .--
quciicc of our illustrious President'-
attitude. I
The Republican party" are -.cckiutr. !
and find themselves hard pressed to
single out a man of "Destiny." a Moses
to lead them out of the wilderness of
their folly to a peaceful resting place, f
Our honored President. Woodrow W. !
Wilson, who stands like another Gi- i
i i. , . . ..
iiruuar, ami mo innuence oi wnoso
policies are manifestly become bill
warks of thu nation, will be followed
l.y the Democracy wherever he muv
lead, and to the faithful it menus rail
Victory and the continuance of Dem
ocracy over our broad land.
With our energies put to their ut
most, with our fuitli sincerely pinned
to our banner, with the determination
to work for the "Greatest Good for tho
Largest Number," our tight will bo
won and our labor justified."
Mr. Callsch was loudly applauded
and his address appreciated.
Judge Lieb made a few remarks
and the meeting was adjourned to
meet two weeks later when a good
program is hoped to be arranged and
every young Democrat in Tucumcnri
urged to come out and learn why he
is a democrat and meet with each
o'her for mutual benefit.
Arrangements are being made to
organize tributary clubs throughout
the county, the officers beiiighonorary
members to the several organizations.
Itfiis being planned thnt a number of
Democrats will go to Montoya next
Monday night to meet with the new
organization being formed there. If
you can go and take a friend. pl"ae
notify some of the officer- of the
Tur.inicari organization.
The "Rattle Cry of Peace'" wn at
tended by large crowds every day and
numerous out-of-town folks were in
Tucumcnri both days to attend the
performances. The picture production
was grand and it took 2'i- hours to
complete the entire show. Those who
were in nttendance sat hypnotized with
the vivid history and prophecies as
portrayed. The orchestra played ex
ceptionally well and added greatly to
the force of the situation. Only a brief
outline would not do justice to the
meaning and facts the pictures drive
homo to the ncoole who think United
i States soldiers can whip an army ten
times as large as iti.elf, even if it had
to use broomsticks against a well arm
ed and trained force.
In the battle Monday at Verdun
I'JO.OOO soldiers attacked the French
it was demonstrated how deadly tho
oresent-day war machinery is, when
half the number were killed or crip
pled. Just think of iid.OflO soldiers be
ing shot down in a few hours, nnd they
were well-trained and well-armed. The
pictures Saturday and Sunday showed
an imaginary attack upon New York
and the destruction and capture of our
great metropolis. It sure puts a per
son to thinking.
Mr. Hurley -hould he commended
upon his good luck to he able to put
on this wonderful picture, but he is
always alive to the desires of the pub
lic and tries to satisfy their wishes.
LATIN CLASSES PROGRAM
A novelty program will be present
ed at the High School Auditorium next
Friduy afternoon, April M, ut three
o clock, given entiroly by the Lntln
classes. Some of the numbers will be
in English, hut the audience will be
assisted in following oven the Lntln
features.
The basic connection will be indi
rated briefly, whilo attention will be
called to a series of diagrams and
charts prepared by the students of the
upper classes. These exhibits present
graphically the debt of modern science
politics and word-formation to the an
cient languages.
The feature of the program will be
a Roman wedding, Cicero's daughter,
Tullia will be married to young Cain's
Piso with nil tho ceremony of the Ro-
mnn religion, when the rites hnvo been
performed the friends of tho happy
couple enter und join in singing an
old Latin son, "Gnudcamus Igitur,"
Part of tho wedding fenst consists of
a cake linked according to an ancient
Roman recipe.
A great deal of enthusiasm is being
manifested over this program, nnd ull
friends of the school are cordially in
vited to attend.
Shirts, Pants, Overalls and Jumpers
ut Gnrrett 8.
PHILHARMONIC CONCKRT
Parvin Witte, the renowned tenor,
engaged by Philharmonic Society; al
so Male Quartet from Kl Paso. Ex
pense gunranteed by local men. Ev
erything ready for the Hig Concert
on Thursday April 27th.
That Tucumcnri busines men know
i good thing when they see it is ev
idenced by the readiness with which
fifteen of our merchants and bunkers
guaranteed sufficient funds to muke
possible the engagement of Parvin
Witte and Mule Quartet from El Paso
for the big Philharmonic Society Con
cert to take place at the Masonic Op
era House tho lust Thursday in this
month, April 27.
1)1 fee tor Hoeritig hud requested a
mcewng of the business men on Mon
day afternoon, but owing to u meet
ing of the Scnool Hoard, and of the
Directors of The First Nutional Hnnk,
this was not possible. However, the
ubiquitous and irrepressible Rector
Director interviewed the business men
individually, and within two hours the
financial guarantee was secured, mak
ing possible the engaitenient of the
finest available talent for the Con
cert. "Yes. I am proud of the Tucum
cnri spirit." said Mr. Hoering, "hut I
am not surprised; I expected it."
In addition to the distinguished "im
ported" soloists, the following locnl
talent will appear on the program:
Mrs. I). J. Finegun, Miss Edith Ed
wards. Mrs. Freeman Allen, Robert
Rurnet. Miss Junnita Schaff, Rev. E.
J. Hoering, u specially organized or
chestra, and about forty members of
tho Philharmonic Society in chorus.
Parvin Witte will, of course, bu the
star attraction, and the El Paso Mule
Quartet will shnre the stellar space
which remains. Witte was a well
known figure in New York und Chi-
cngo Grand Opera, when the I,'. S.
loveriimcut chartered his magnificent
voice and talents for u series of con
certs und recitals in the Panama one.
"I did not even begin to think wo could
get anything as fine as Witte for our
Grand Concert, said Director Hoer
ing, when he returned from El Puso
after engaging Parvin Witto und the
Quartet. "Witte happens to ho 'rest
ing up in El Paso, and this fact com
bined with personal friendship for,
and interest in developing mtistic
ideals in Tucumcnri, made the engage
ment possible. Tucumcnri is certain-
y going to have a treat, and I tmng-
ine every sent will be sold long before
the timu of the concert.
In addition to Parvin Witte, us lead-
r, the other members of the El Paso
Male quartet are; Frederick Hillings,
second tenor; Charles Andrew, first
nss; Louis Iloggslmw. second bass.
11 are well known soloists. The mix
ed quartet taking special numbers In
the Chorus work will consist of Mrs.
D. J. Finegun, Miss Georgia Gardner,
Robert Uurnet and Louis Roggshuw.
Lack of space prevents giving the
names of the members or ' e entire
bonis and the orchestra.
The special committee appointed
for the purpose reports that the pro
ceeds of the concert will be devoted
to the Tucumcnri Public Plnygrounds
fund. It is singularly appropriate
that Art and Music should lend them
selves to the noble cnuse of our chil
dren's welfare --for in them lies the
future greatness of tho nation.
TEACHERS' ASSOCIATION
During the past six months a num
ber of successful tenchers' meeting
have been held in Quay county. These
meetings, from reports of the arious
district chairmen, have been produc
tive of much good throughout the en
tire county.
Such meetings are timekeepers of
progress in education mid no teacher
can be counted progressive who does
not attend meetings of this kind. Your
interest in the work is measured by
active participation in such meetings
und no teacher can say ho is interest
ed in education when he will not par
ticipate in such meetings.
We, therefore, urge all teachers of
the county to be present at the goner
ul county meting to be held on Mon
duy anil Tuesday, May 8th anil 0th,
and take an nctive part in the discus
sion of the various subjects assigned
Wo could not give each teacher a place
on the program, but ull subjects will
be open for general discussion. You
will bo given an opportunity to dis
cuss any subject on the program, and
in this way the meeting will be what
you make it.
In addition to tho local teachers, a
special invitation has been extended
to the State Superintendent of Public
Instruction, Mr. Alvun N. White, nnd
to Mr. L. C. Mersfchler, Stnto Director
of Industrial Education. Each of
these gentlemen will huve an inter
esting message for you.
Tho program will bo given next
week.
LANCASTER JUUNEY
l.um Lancaster and Miss Karon tier
trude Jurney, both of Quny, were unit
ed in tho holy bonds of matrimony nt
tho Methodist parsonage Wednesday
afternoon nt 2 o clock by the pastor.
Rev. u. W. McAtinlly. the young
couple have many friends in this pnrt
of tho county who join tho News In
extending heurty congratulations for
a long und happy wedded life.
We understand Mr. nnd Mrs. Lan
caster will make their future home on
a farm near Quay.
MURDER CASE CONTINUED-WILL
FISH
DOCKET THIS WEEK
District Court is still in session and
Judge Lieb is turning out the enie
brought before him in quick succt
sion. The first week was full of work
and u number of cases ware Inmrd
nnd dismissed, being stricken from
the docket.
No important cases will come be
fore the court ut this time and Jude
Lieb thinks he will be able to ond up
his work here this week.
The big murder cusc brought here
from Ritton, wits brought up for trial,
but the state wns not ready and the
cause was continued until next Utrm.
Legal talent ftom Trinidad and Kxton
were here to defend Towndrow who
is charged with having killed his wife
with a stove poker and then sot her
body on fire. The lawyers for tho de
fense say they have plenty of proof
to clear their client of the clmrge.
Towndrow is an old man und shows
the wenr nnd tear of jail life and does
not look like he is long for this world
whether the court finds him guilty or
or not.
The three cases of Reiuken Merc. Co
vs. Charles Mceks. Marcos linen, mid
Ah V. Mceks. were stricken from the
docket at the request of plaintiff.
The grand jury adjourned Saturday
and found 28 true bills nnd 8 no true
bills. None of these chargas are of
much importance and the officers will
soon huvc most of the papers served.
The case in which David Duller
charged Jim Wise with malicious
prosecution, was tried before a jury
and consumed most of two days. The
erdict of not guilty was returned in
a few minutes after the case was turn
ed over to the jury.
The News will give a full report
If possible next week.
NORTON STORK IS SOLD
J. H. Thurston of Purccll, Okla., has
purchased the store and other property
of De Roy Welsh and has taken full
charge of same. He is an Oklahoma
Democrat and Buys he will chunge Un
political atmosphere of Norton.
Mr. Welsh suys he will go to Pnnn-
m.i und Sociulize that place. lie has
been n resident of Norton so long it
wns thought he was a permanent fix
ture, nnd has many warm friends in
this county who would be glnd to hour
that he nnd his fumily would remain
in Quay county.
Mr. Thurston and his fumily are
good citizens and they are heartily
welcomed to our midst. He says if
the farmers of that vicinity will raise
enough grain to warrant the purchas
ing of a thresher, he will see that one
is brought to that vicinity.
J. L. Howerman bus put in a grist
mill nt Norton und is getting about
ull tho grinding he can handle. This
will make it handy for the farmers in
that section to huve their feed ground.
SUCCESSFUL STOCK SALE
A number from here went out to the
hig sole ut the farm of J. H. Ycaklcy.
near McAlister. Wednesday. There
were about .'100 people in attendance
at the sale and nil the cattle sold as
good or better than wns expected.
Yearling heifers, grade stuff, sold up
to $-lfi, while cows sold up to 8n.
This sule shows Quay county is
ready to enter the stock business and
if the people cannot afford to buy fine
registered stuff they will buy the next
best thing, u good grade.
Mr. Yeakley advertised this sule in
nil parts of Eastern New Mexico and
eft nothing undone to muke the sale
a success. He is entering the regis
tered Hereford business nnd will no
doubt muke u success of that as he is
the kind of n man who makes a suc
cess. He believes in advertising, and
selling exnetly whut ho advertises.
WANT COUNTY AGENT
At themeeting of the merchants and
business mon held in the office of
Sec'y Hoyer this afternoon, a petition
wns circulated by Mr. Smith of the
Experiment Farm in the interest of
securing a county agent for Quay
county. It wns signed by ubout Jin
people mid will no doubt bo signed by
every progressive citizen of the coun
ty. This is a good thing nnd has been
successfully tried out in other coun
ties of tho stnto. What is good for
other counties Is good for Quay and
she will hnvo it.
REPUIJLICAN VOTERS
Notice is hereby given that a meet
ing of Republican voters of Precinct
No. 1 will bo held Snturdoy, April lft,
1010, ut -1 p. m at tho Opera House,
for tho purpose of electing six dele
gates to tho Republican County Con
vention to be held April ICth at Tu
cumcnri, which has been called for
tho purpose of electing threo dele
gates to the Republican State Con
vention. H. II. McElroy,
Precinct Chairman.
Wondor which Sierra Madre height
will be tho Mexican LoMorl Ilommo?
