THE CLAYTON CIT1
VOLUME 12
CLAYTON. NEW MEXICO, THURSDAY, APRIL 13, 1916.
NO. 14.
LIEB ASKED TO GRANT
TEMPORARY RESTRAINT
Complaint Says School Bond
Election Illegal Want to
ioin Board from Sell
ing Bonds
Enjc
Glass Suffering
It seems that a malady that affects
the equilibrium of folks has struck
Clayton and that the wobblineBs takes
place in front of windows. W. C.
Barnhart's grocery was the victim of
a broken window resulting from a
scuffle between officer Elíseo Martinez
and Francisco Garcia when the latter
fell against the pane and shattered it
Garcia was resisting arrest, a sequence
to trouble with Frank Casados. Gar
cia was released Saturday. He created
a disturbance later at the Pullman
Cafe and was again transferred to the
county jug by Lon Cash. He was
again released Sunday.
Another smashed glass is at the
WesternWestern Union telegraph of
fice. An unknown party toppled into
it, Tuesday.
At the Head of His Class
Two Hours
Attorney H. B. Woodward, of Wood
ward & Blue, left Tuesday evening
for Tucumcari to appear before Judge
Lieb to attempt to secure a temporary
restraining order to prevent the sale
of $35,000 school bonds, the restraining
order being the prologue of an attempt
to secure a permanent injunction
against Simon Herzstein, president of
the Board of Education, to prevent him
from signing the bonds, H. H. Errett,
County Superintendent, to prevent mm Man Droppe1 Sack of Dynamite, Lives
from approving tnem, ana iseswr j.
de Baca to prevent him from counter
signing the bonds. The complainants
are, according to report, R. W. Isaacs,
M. Herzstein, H. Herzstein, C. Otto,
M. C. 'Johnson, W. C. Barnhart, A. C.
Miera, D. W. Snyder, Thos. S. Snyder,
Carl Eklund, Edw. W. Fox and G. G. j
Granville.
The information upon which the re
- straint is asked alleges that the bond
election was illegal, the boundaries
of the School District No. 1 are "not
marked" according to law, and that
the bonds were not drawn and depos
ited for inspection with the county
treasurer as provided by law.
Attorney 0. P. Easterwood, repre
senting the Board of Education, S.
Herzstein, Dr. Edmondson and W. A.
Henderson left today to present in
formation which, it is claimed, will
block the movement to obtain the tem
porary restraining order.
Until noon today no report had been
received as to whether the court grant
ed the restraining order.
Isam Williams, of Folsom, lived
two hours after he had dropped
a sack of dynamite Monday, the
explosion of which tore both legs
from his body and nearly severed
one of his arms. The explosion
also wrecked the office of a livery
barn where the accident occured.
Williams' wife was not aware of
the accident until he had died, he
refusing to allow friends to in
form her. It is reported that Wil
liams was intoxicated.
Williams was about 35 years old,
He is survivied by a wife and two
children.
Williams was formerly employed as
a deputy sheriff in Union county. He
had a splendid record as a horse-thief
catcher, and bore marks of several
battles with rustlers.
He was shot three years ago while
acting as deputy sheriff.
Attorney Jack Harris made his daily
visit to the - station Monday and as
usual Snagged the fiinal Pink Sheet
Extra. y
Seeking a convenient telephone post
he leaned against it to repose and
speculate on the relative 'beauty of
the ladies whose photos graced the
Pink Rag.
While engrossed thusly an omnipres
ent representative of that Sunday
school class which it known by the
rival Red and Blue divisions, ap
proached the attorney. The repre-
sentative was one of Clayton's popular
young ladies. '
"Do you attend Sunday school Mr.
Harris," asked the young lady.
Jack confessed that he used to,
Won't you come and be a member
of our class," solicited the young lady,
Jack opined that it might be ar
ranged.
"We want you to be on the Red
side," said the y. 1.
"That's funny," said Jack, "I am
on that side now you know I've been
on the Red side all my life, the cashier
informed me this morning that I was
still leading the bunch on the Red
side."
But regardless of that Jack says
he may take a notion to attend Sunday
school.
The Reigelman Concert
V.
Fans Have Meeting
Flower Sale at Wade's
Geo. H. Wade has a unique sale
scheduled for Monday, April 17th.
Being a flower "farmer" Mr. Wade
is naturally interested in promoting
flower culture here. He is causing to
be shipped to Clayton 1000 real live
plants, some of them in bloom, others
ready, others that won't bloom be
cause they are not the blooming kind
the lot consisting of geranium, rose,
fern, begonia, gladoli, Easter and calla
lilies, etc., etc. Each plant will be
quartered in a paper pot. George
says Clayton folks will have a chance
o get plants at a lower price than
SINGERS AT HAYDEN
All songsters are cordially in
vited to attend the convention of
the Union County Singer at Hay
den Sunday, April 30th. There
will be a big dinner and an all day
program.
CEMETERY DAMAGED IN
WIND DRIVEN BLAZE
Bottling Works Begins Grinding
"Green Goods" Wouldn't Work
A bunch of enthusiastic ball fans
got together Wednesday night for a
preliminary pow-wow which bids fair
to set the ball whirling in direction of
a baseball team. Luther George was
appointed business manager pro tern,
whose duty it will be to round up ev
erybody to promote interest in a first
class amateur ball team. Another of physicians might help matters.
While the crowd that attended the
Mabel Reigelman concert Monday
night was not as large as the affair
merited there was sufficient number
present to substantiate assertion that
Clayton has many people who appre
ciate this class of music.
Mis Reigelman, so ably assisted by
. . . .. to help perfect the organization,
compamst, won in our little city the I, . . , . .
.... , , v i Cla'iion has the advantage of
sume uuiiiuuuuii uuu upinnusc iimt-
acterizinz her career as a singer in
nearly every big city in the United
States and many of Europe.
We do not feel capable of saying
anything that can appropriately por
tray Miss Reigelman's ability a clip
ping from the Chicago News put sim
ply and in a few words, our own con
clusion after witnessing and hearing
Miss Reigelman's program: "Miss
Reigelman proved herself to be a
musician of the highest type and an ,
nrficfr. trt tY flninlr finirá fino " I
iiicrwiiK luuui uk iiem uuu iuivu
Bluestone is a versatile substance
one of its uses being as an element
that assists to generate electricity in
the charging of storage batteries.
Operator Miss Lipperd, at the West
ern Union office decided that the
"juice" was getting a trifle weak and
that the batteries needed rejuvenat
ing. She found some stuff that from ap
pearance might have borne slight re
lationship to bluestone but on ac
count of its color t"gr?nstone" would
have been an appropriate name.
She filled the glass jars full of the
pretty green goods.
But the batteries didn't rejuvenate
worth a dárn.
In fact, they showed indications of
"shuffling off the mortal coil."
Miss Lipperd decided that a change
"Chief bottle washer" is no longer
a vernacular metaphor in Clayton
if you don't believe it visit the Axar
Mercantile Company and inspect the
rear of that establishment and you
will find temporary quarters of the
Azar Bottling Works and two or three
boys industriously washing bottles.
Mr. Azar found it necessary to get
his equipment busy turning out b-it
tied soft drinks and although crampe
for room he is supplying the local de
mancl. As soon as his stock of mer
chandise is moved to a building on
Main street Mr. Azar intends to ut
ilize the present building exclusively
for the bottling works. When run
ning full blast the plant will have
a capacity of 300 cases of 24 bottles
to the case and employ from 10 to 20
people.
This is the only plant of -its kind
in northeast New Mexico and stands
an excellent show to be very lucrative
proposition. Mr. Azar is owner of
stores in Trinidad and a store and
bottling works in Raton.
meeting was called for Sunday night
and everybody is urged to be on hand
organizat
advantage of hav
ing a very well equipped ball park
and has experienced timber to per
form on the diamond. The only dis
advantage of a local league proposi
tion is the distance between the var
ious towns able to support a team. ,;
However, if a ball team can be or
ganized, and its affairs conducted in
big league style we feel sure that
Clayton will reap material benefit
from it, beside the clean amusement
I it will afford during the summer.
The Citizen believes that if a coun-
representatives from the smaller in
land towns some new light might be
shed on the problem. Both Stead
She sent out an S. O. S. and Frank
Clark heard and answered.
He diagnosed the case of the wan
ing batteries
He discovered that instead of using
bluestone Miss Liperd had filled the
jars with sweeping compound
Cupid's Business Ticking Up
and Vance are playing in weekly ; Pasamonte were married Wednesday.
games. The smaller towns, situated They will reside at Ptisamonte. The
close together, could produce combin
ation teams that would make good
showings against Clayton, Texline and
Des Moines.
The reputátion of Miss Reigelman
extends even beyond the borders of our
own land. Miss Myers, although not
of wide reputation as an accompanist,
has shown herself in this performance
to have marked ability and was so ad
judged by a number of competent
critics who were present and enjoyed
the evening's program. Clayton was
just a little weak in its patronage of
this high class musical treat, and in '.,,. . ...
this, as well as every other phase of j Union Coun,y Uni(ll,e Record
of our community life, should seek for , Y
the best and be strong for it. It means Throuh County H' H' Errett
much to us to choose and to be put on vve, k'arn several rather remarkable
record as supporting the BEST. aml together interesting facts con-
Miss Reigelman is a niece of R. W. n Un,on County 8 educational af
Isaacs land it was through their rela- fa'rs-
.. u:i ! Union county has more teachers
Liuunuip biint mina iveiuiiiiau waa oc- . -
cured for a performance here. Miss than other county ln the state-
TWPlmn loft, for HnlWt T.,PSd.iv Teachers salary scale is lower than
to catch the Golden State limited to in any other county- Union coun
Kansns City where she joins the Bos- tcachws rank first ,n the cffl'
ton Grand Opera company as prima I c'ency tes-
donna soprano. ' Bernalillo county, of which Albu-
I t'uerque is the county seat, is Union s
! closest rival as to the number of
Farber Buys Residence j teachers, yet Union county school ex-
j nenso is much lower than that coun-
H. C. Farber closed a deal last week ' ty's.
with Robt. P. Ervien for the hand-! Proportionately Union county has a
Rev. A. P. Gaines officiated at three
weddings the first of the week. Keith
Dubbs and Irma Shelton, both of Des
Moines, were married Tuesday. The
couple will make their home on a
ranch seven miles west of Des Moines.
Fred C. Ley of Wanette, and Mabel
Coulson of north of Clayton were mar-
Sparks From Engine Start
Fire that Sweeps 400
Acres and Burns
Many Posts r
Fire said to have originated from
sparks from a passing freight on the
C. & S. swept northward over approv
imately 400 acres of grass land, burn
ing posts and destroying fences and
doing between $200 and $300 worth
of damage in the Clayton cemetery
Tuesday. The fire started on the
John Boyd place and driven by a high
wind threatened to soon spread be
yond control. Chas. A. Law was one
of the losers, the entire amount of his
grass land being burned.
About 100 men left town to fight
the blaze which, fortunately was con
Kilhurn to Minnesota for Operation
Frank Kilburn left Thursday for
Minnesota where he will enter the
famous Mayo Brothers hospital to
undergo an operation for appendicitis.
He was accompanied by his father,
W. D. Kilburn.
Crowd Attends Sunday Dinner
Salado Schools Close
The Salado school which was taught
by Epifanio Garcia, closed a very suc
cessful term on the 24th of March,
and the event was celebrated by an
entertainment, prepared and rendered
by the pupils under the direction of
their teacher, and a most pleasant
time was had. Prof. Garcia made an
address in which he emphasized the
need of education for the rising gene
ration, both for the English and Span
ish speaking people. -
An evening entertainment was given
which consisted of several interest
ing addresses, the opening address
being made by the teacher, Mr. Gar
cia, who was followed by Mr. R. D.
Casados, Mr. Marcus Sanchez and Al
bert Sanchez. The principal address
of the evening was delivered by Coun
ty Supt. H. H. Errett, who spoke on
the subject "A Broader View of Edu
cation," in which he emphasized the
work of the boys and girls industrial
clubs and their importance as a part
of the regular school work. The Sa
lado district has organized clubs and
the girls had on display samples of
their work in the culinary department
of their domestic science work which
showed marked ability in this line.
After the program was over the
girls industrial club served coffee and
cake as refreshments. The work in
this district is under the leadership
of Mr. and Mrs. R. D. Casados.
A. L. Ratcliff, superintendent of the
Kitts Sunday school, reported that a
big crowd enjoyed the delectable din
ner at the school house Sunday. Rev
J. Q. Herrin preached an interesting
sermon.
Firemen's Benefit Carnival
Carnival attraction will play i
week's engagement in Clnyton begin
. ... i . . rtM -11 1 H'liK I'lUllUU.V. llalli ti-iiii, v I'vi ii-iib
nod Wednesday afternoon. They will , 1U ' ' ... , ., ,,i
. . , , ., . j of the proceeds will go to the Clayton
B. Ellis, and Lulu Hamilton both of
Citizen extends
newly-weds.
best wishes to the
SAVE 'EM
It is only a matter of a short time
until somebody in Clayton will begin
dealing in rags and papers. The
scarcity of raw material for the manu
facture of paper is demanding it.
Waste paper is now bringing a higher
price than ever before the last quo
tations being $15 per ton.
Start saving now.
Fire Department.
C. & S. Will Improve
Popular Young Folks Marry
Ed Utterback and Virginia Hittson
sliped one over their many friends by
going away on the simple mission,
presumably, to bring friends home
from Mineral Wells, Texas. They
brought the friends home all right,
but the popular young folks came
home as Mr. and Mrs. Utterback, hav
ing been married at Mineral Wells,
March 20th. Following is a portion
of the story of the wedding in the
Mineral Wells News:
"A quiet wedding was consummated
in the study of Pastor R. A. High
smith of the Central Christian church.
The contracting parties were Mr. Ed
Utterback and Miss Virginia Hittson.
The happy couple left today for their
future home in New Mexico."
Mrs. Utterback has been in Clayton
for nearly two years, coining here
from Des Moines, where her parents
live. She has been employed in Clay-
ton with various business firms in the
Attorney Joseph Gill made a trip capacity of stenographer. She is very
to Tucumcari, Monday night as rep-! handsome and popular.
According to Agent II. C. Farber,
the C. & S. will improve their yardage
facilities here in the near future. The
passing track will be extended and
another siding added on the west side
of the station.
Stop School Building
Ladies Aid Secures Library
J Ladies Aid Society of the M. E.
church, has secured a circulating libra-
which has been installed at the
ry
church. About 50 volumes are now
on hnnd, works of well-known authors
of juvenile literature. The ladies an-i-ounce
the bouks may be secr.red free
of charge each Sunday morning prior
some residence property on the west much lower expense than any other to Sunday school services. y
uí.la l-nrm-n na tVio TT!rvin nrnnprtv 1 pntmtv in tnn afnta nrA HlRTPCrnrflinCT I .
Mr. Farber intends to take possession 1 proportion it is lower than a majority If you read the news you read The or water color. Leave orders at Lord's he will take charge of the W. C. Barn
LIU V OVVI V OU.l,VVUII Willi liVJt
resentative of John Tignor, Bill Sharp
John Walker and Wm. E. Alvey, who
petition district Judge Lieb to enjoin
school directors of District 93 and H.
McCook, Ernest Hott, Jess Roller,
James Hilfiker, John Johnson and
..Doturrt from continuing, it is re
ported, the construction of a school
building in District 93 and citing them
to uppear before Judge Lieb to show
cause why they should complete the
building.
Have your favorite Kodak picture
(of anything) sketched in ink, crayon,
Ed is the son of Mr. and Mrs. II.
J. Utterback. Everybody knows him
and The Citizen feels sure that every
body extends to him and his bride
their best wishes for a long and pros
perous life.
Mr. and Mrs. Utterback returned
fr'm Mineral Wells, Monday night.
They will go to the Utterback ranch
to reside.
Tinsley Will Manage Store
Geo. Tinsley of Clayton has moved
his family to Marion Center, where
about the first of the month.
of counties.
Citizen
Electric Studio.
