1S1G .
ri
3 Sf
, VOL LVIII. NO. 286 POPULATION 2819 H ' NORWICH, CONN TUESDAY, - NOVEMBER -28, 1916 : - ' ' - TEN PAGES 80 COLUMNS V PRICE TWO CETO;
The Bulletin's Circulation in Norwich is Double That of Any Other Paper, and Its Total Circulation is the Largest in Connecticut in Proportion totht, City's 'Populiongg?;
TEUTONS COM
LINE
OF ALT
Germanic Invaders Are Daily Drawing Nearer the
Capital of Rumania .
MACKENSEN BUT 47 MILES FROM BUCHAREST
Berlin Chronicles the Defeat of the Entente Allies Over a
Front of About 17 Miles Northwest and Northeast of
Monastir In the Carnia Region of the Austro-Italian
Theatre the Austrian Are Vigorously. Shelling ' the
, Italians Berlin Discovers Indications That the Entente
Allies Are Preparing for Fresh ' Offensive in France
Where Now Comparative Calm Prevails.
The entire line of the Alt river In
Rumania, running: north and south
through the country from the Transyl
vania Alps, to the Danube, Is now in
the hands, of the Teutonic allies. In
all directions the invaders are con
tinuing to make progress, with Buch
arest, their main objective, daily com
ing; nearer.
The southern and eastern drive is
the Alt region has brought the Teu
tonlo forces across the Topouog river,
while to the south between Rochl de
"Vede and Valeni the line has been
' drawn considerably nearer the Ru
manian capital. Alexandria, 47 miles
southeast of Bucharest, has been taken
by Field Marshal von Mackensen's
troops.
Considering" the swiftness of the ad
vance of the Teutonic allies through
Wallachia, comparatively few prison
ers have been taken, although semi
official reports credit them with hav
ing captured considerable supplies of
needed stores. Near Orsova twenty
eight officers and 1.200 men were
. made prisoners while In the Alt re
' gion, near Tlgveni, ten additional of
ficers and 400 men fen Into the hands
of the Teutons. "'-'-.
In a biff battle extending: over . a
front of about IT miles northwest and
northeast of Monastlr between Trn-
ova and Makovo the entente : allies.
aooordUo( to Berlin have met with a
CROPS IN YUCATAN-'.
, DAMAGED BY WIND.
Wind and RalnXvas Accompanied by
High Tides Along the Coast.
New Orleans, La.. Nor. 27. Damage
amounting to several hundred thousand
dollars was don to crops and property
In the Mexican state of .Yucatan by
severe wind and rain storms laetlnf
from Nov.-11 to 17, according to mail
and cable advices revived here today
from-' Prog-re o and Merlda The
storms were deciihej as "the worst
experienced in years." and the wind
and rf&tn was accompanied by high
tides all along the coast of the penin
sula. According to the reports, the sisal
crop In the Interior was heavily dam
aged, the Port of Ssal. near Progreso,
was Inundated, 1 lignters loaded with
merchandise and slpaS were destroyed
at Progreso, and there was consider
able damage to property on the Pro
greso waterfront. No loss of life was
reported.
FUNERAL IN LONDON
OF' MRS. ALMERIC PAGET
Wounded Soldiers Acted Pallbear
ers In Recognition of her Services.
T-ondon, Nov. 27, 5.80 p. m. The
funeral took place toaay of Mrs. Al
merie Paret, who ''died lust week at
Beher, Surrey. Before her marriage
Mrs. Pa ret was Miss Pauline Whit
1WT of New York.
wounded soldiers acted as pall
hearers, in recognition of Mrs. Pa
get's labors for the wounded since
the outbreak of the war. Simultant
eously with the funeral a memorial
service was he'd at St. Margaret's
Westminster. It was attended by a
large assemblage. Including members
of the cabinet, entente diplomats and
a number of Americana
INDICTED FOR A MURDER
OF THREE YEARS STANDING
VVhen Frederick . Stauss Was Shot
During a Gangsters' Battle in New
York. .j -
New York, Nov. 27. The- three yeex
old murder mystery In which Fred
erick Sta'uss, an aged city clerk, was
shot to death during a gangsters' bat
tle on the East Bide, was brought to
public attention again today with the
indictment by the grand Jury of Ben
jamin Fein, known .to the police and
to hi sassociates as "Dopey Benny.
Fein, an alleged gang leader, is accus
ed of murder in the first degree.
Since the shooting more than twen
ty persons, including one woman, have
been arrested, but all were discharg
ed, snd Fein himself was once before
accused but released.
BIENNIAL CONVENTION OF
THE POLISH FEDERATION
f .. i .
Between 740 and 1,000 Delegates Pres
ent st 8outh Bend, Ind. .
South Bend, Tnd., Nov. 27. Between
- TSO and 1,000 delegates gathered here
today at the opening meeting of the
three days session of the biennnial
convention of the Polish . Federation
- Of America,' Of chief Importance, ac-
- eording to- delegates. Is the consider'
atlon of a proposed amendment pro
riding for the advancement of all
.' Poles no matter of what ' religious
treed. The present constitution 11 nj
' Its the federation work to , the Ro
man Catholic denomination.
National officers are in attendance,
Liaoair them toeing President. Btaois
ROL
RIVE
severe defeat through the failure of
an attack launched against the lines
of the central powers. Aside from re
ports of the repulse of the Bulgarians
by the Serbians and of continued pro
gress for the Italians west of Monas- 1
tir the entente allied war offices rec
ord no Important engagements on the
Macedonian front.
In the Carnia sector of the Austro
Italian theatre and east of Gorlzla the
Austirans are vigorously shelling the
Italians. On the Russian front there
has been considerable activity by both
the Russians and Germans at various
points.
Comparative calm still prevails all
along the front In France so far as
infantry engagements are concerned.
A Berlin semi-official despatch says
there are indications that the entente
allies contemplate . fresh - offensives,
probably near Armetleres and east of
Arras, where heavy artillery bombard
ments are being carried out. and also
on the St. Mihiel Balient, southeast of
Verdun. Another senu-ofHcial des
patch from Berlin quotes Constantino
ple advices to the effect that Arabs on
the .Tripoli-Tunis ' frontier in north
Africa have defeated the, Italians and
carried the fifht across the border in
to Tunis against the French. - The
losses of the Italians are estimated
at 24,000 men, not including prison
ers taken into the interior-- by ; the
'Arabs.
SHIPPER'S PROTEST AGAINST .
INCREASED DEMURRAGE RATES
At a Hearing Before : Commissioner
McChord .at Washington. :
Washington, ' Nov. 27. Protests on
behalf of shippers against the pro-1
pohed increased demurrage rates, sus
pended by the Interstate Commerce
Commission, were presented by a. com
mittee of the National Industrial Traf
fic League, at a hearing today before
Commissioner McChord. The shippers
advocated tentatively a substitute
graduated demurrage scale og $1 a day
for the first two days after the free
poriod, $2 a day for the next two days
and $5 a day for each day thereafter
with a requirement that the railroads
raise their per diem rate of payment
for cars restrained by roads other
than the owners and retain the rule
that demurrage charges shall be sus
pended on days when weather pre
vents unloading. The tariffs under
Investigation proposed rateSOf $2. $3,
$4 and respectively, for ca suc
ceeding day after the free pvciod.
The conference committee on cev? ef
ficiency of the American Railway as
sociation, which Is conducting a cam
paign to relieve the freight car short
age, took part in the hearing and
promised that a "substantial increase"
In the per diem rate would be made
soon by the railway association. The
rate now is forty-five cents a day.
TRANSCRIPT FOR TEST
OF ADAMSON LAW
Was Received Late Yesterday at the
Supreme Court. ;
Washington, Nov. 27. The tran
script in the case of the Missouri. Ok
lahoma and Gulf Railroad, chosen to
test the constitutionality of the
Adamson law, was received late today
at hte supreme court. The depart
ment of Justice was asked for instruc
tions as to whether the case would be
Immediately docketed or temporarily
withheld by the government authori
ties, -s . transcript was sent direct
to the clerk of the supreme court by
registered mail by the clerk of the
United State scourt for western Mis
souri, in Which Federal Judge Hook
on November -22 decided that the
Adamson act was unconstitutional. -
STANDARD OIL ABSORBS
HYDRAULIC PRESSED STEEL CO.
Purchase Made at $270 a Share, Part
Cash and Part Stook.
Cleveland, Ohio, Nov. 27. Th Hy
draulic Pressed Steel Company of this
city has been sold to Standard Oil
interests for $270 a shEtre, part cash
and part stock, it, was announced to
day. . .
The Hydraulic Pressed Steel Com
pany is one of the largest producers
of steel forgings foe shells in the
United . States. . , The cash payment
will amount to $148 a share and the
stock distribution will be $162 a
share. . , v -
COMEDIAN DROPPED DEAD
OF HEART FAILURE
While Walking Along the Street With
His Wifs In Watertown.
- Watertown, Conn., Nov. 27.--Nlcb-olas
S. Conway, of New, York, a come
dian, known on the stage as "Laugh
ing Casey," dropped dead - of heart
failure here late today .while walk
ing along the street with his wife to
visit the tetter's sister. Conway , was
born at- Southington -58 years ago and
leaves besides his wife, a son, Mlohae
Conway, oi fivw xprs.
Cabled Paragraphs
'. Falkenhayn's Valuable Booty. J
Berlin, , Nov. 27. (By : Wireless to
Sayvllle.) According- to the military
correspondent of the Lokal Anzeiger,
the booty , taken by General von Fal
kenhayn's. forces at Craiova comprised
oil, benzine-and. rubber in quantities
that exceeded expectations. -
- British Potato Crop Short.
London. Nov. 27. - 11.30 : p. - m. 1 '
board of agriculture, estimate the
tato crop of England" and Wales i
the current year, with a decreased
acreage of 96,000 acres, as S&0.000 4ons
less than in 1915..: It is, however, only
180,000 tons less than the ten years'
average.-.- '
WATSON ACTING AS
HIS OWN ATTORNEY
On Trial For Third Time For Sending
Obscene Matter Through Mails.
Augusta. Ga.. Nov. 27. Thomas - E.
Watson, the Georgia editor, . who was
twice populist nominee for president, j
was placed otttrial for a. third time
v rv. v !
with sending ebscene matter through
Yt mafia in a r-f i rUa aitsLPiclna- . tnfl
Roman Catholic church and appearing
several years ago in one of his perlodi- '
cals. - At his first trial , the indictment
was dismissed on a technicality and
at the second the jury disagreed. ' ;
Acting as his Own attorney, Watson
today indicated that he would place
upon the government the . burden Of
proof that he was - responsible . for
mailing the alleged objectionable mat
ter. He stated that he was merely
president" of the . corporation '' Which
published the magazines. . y
During the second trial he had ad
mitted - connection with, the mailing,
but when District Attorney Donaldson
asked him today if he cared to make
the same admission, he replied:
'.'Make out your case, Mr. District
o .
Attorney." j -
After a jury had been secured the
government put on the stand J.. O.
West, postmaster, at Thomaston, Ga,,
home of the defendant, and A. J.
Knight, a post office inspector, -: who
testified that the issues of the maga
zines in question went through - the
mails. , .' '''... . --' -
While Knight was onthe stand
Watson sought to have him identify
several government publication which
the defense claimed the government
had circulated through the mails and
thus had "set an - example for citi
zens." Watson claimed they contained
words similar to those in the article
oh which he was indicted. AH were
ruled out, however, oil' objection of
the prosecution that they were "priv
ileged matter." Watson also was overruled-
in. attempts to : show the mo
tive which inspired the articles, and
to show that "an outsider was behind"
the prosecution. , , ; -
SCIENTIFIC DIET TEST MAY
, RESULT IN NEW COOK BOOK
Committee is Being Deluged With Re-!
-lpes'''an S SuggestionV'i;, -j '
; Chicago, Nov. 27. A deluge of re
cipes, -containlng- scores tot suggestions
for dishes that are palatable as well
as nutritious and economical. Is flood
ing the committee that, prepares the
daily menus from which the diet squad
is demonstrating how - easy it. Is - to
live well here on -forty cents, a day i
Many of the recipes are new even -to
the instructors of the school of do
mestic science who prepare the meals
and. it is likely that preparation ol a
new cook book may follow the experi
ment. Tomorrow's meals will be:
Breakfast: Bananas, - oatmeal, ' hot
biscuits, coffee.
Luncheon: Chipped beef and toast,
cabbage salad, corn bread, tea.
: Dinner: Cream of lima bean soup,
mock tenderloin of - beef, spaghetti,
Norwegian pudding - with - custard
sauce.' . .': - -
SENATOR JAMES MENTIONED :
FOR PRESIDENT PRO TEMPORE
To Succeed the Late Senator Clark of
Arkansas. .
Washington.' Nov. 271 Senator Ollie
James is being mentioned by the early
arrivals among the democratic sen
ators as. the probabfle choice for pres
ident pro temporeoof the senate to suc
ceed the -late Senator Clark of Arkan
sas. Those supporting the Kentucky
senator point to his record as a leader
of administration forces.- during the
last session . and .to the fact that he
was permanent chairman' of the St.
Louis convention. Among others al
ready mentioned In connection with the
place are Senators Bankhead, Over
man, Saulsbury and O'Gorman.' - The
discussion is linked with that about
the selection of a majority leader,- t
succeed Senator Kern, who was-not re
elected, although the new leader will
not be named until next December un
'ess there is an extra session.: '
1,600 POUNDS OF TURKEY
. FOR TROOPS ON BORDER.
- - ...... ..-
4,000 Pounds of Plum Pudding,- 7,000
- Pounds of Candies. !'.
Columbus, N. M.,' Nov. 1 27. Sixteen
thousand -pounds, of dressed turkeys,
2,000 pounds of cranberries, 100 boxes
of apples and oranges, 4.000' pounds of
plum pudding and 7,000 pounds V of
candies and other dainties were ship
ped south today for Thanksgiving din
ners for the troops of the punitive ex
pedition.' ' ' . -1 .
Thirty-three motor trucks, in vom
mand of Captain .' W. F. Herringshaw,
conveyed the cargo. ' . . - -v..
OBITUARY.
, - Sylvanus Smith. '- ., ,.
Gloucester. Mass., Nov. 27.-Sylva-
nus Smith, most widely known of the
men who nave dtrectea xno nsmng in
dustry from this ". port,' died at . his
home today. . He-had seen nearly a
quarter of a century of service as - a
fisherman out of Gloucester before be
coming an owner of -large fleets.--
Captain Smith, who - was -87 years
old, was a member of the American
delegation which met with a Canadian
fisheries - commission jto discuss Joint
fishing problems in 1877. In later
years, he had acted as -spokesman tor
the- fishing industry of the - city of
Washington and elsewhere r He served
several terms in both branches of the
state legislature. - -; .-. - . ,
Rev. Haines Lord Everest.
Naugatuck, Conn., Nov... 2T. Rev.
Haynes Lord Everest a retired' Epis
copal clergyman, died at his home here
today. He was born 88 years stgo In
Hamden and Is survived by his wife,
two sons and a 'laufjh'er. : He had held
rectorships in thin tind other' states.
His -last' church - was-at Marbledale,
Cono.
Britain Refuse's
Spii Conduct
.afv
xv ... r" ... - -
TO rjp .USTRIAN AMBASSADOR
Jr to united states -
ACTION. IS A SURPRISE
Count Tarnowski Has Been "Awaiting
Concession Before Sailing .for New
Post at Washngton Another Prob
lem for U. S.-Government to Solve.'
Washington, Nov.- 27. Another" con
troversy- between the '.American gov
ernment and the entente allies is in
i prospect as a -result of the refusal ofj
Qe 5gtish government to grant afe
conduct to Count TarnowsKi, uie
l p j t d Austro . Hungarian
v" , ' .
omhflqauinr to tne unnea DLiiLca.
An Unpleasant Surprise,
Tn Mm absence of Official advices on
the subject, officials of the state de
partment were net in a position today
to discuss it formally or . to forecast
the course the government is likely to
pursue;-' It was made evident, how
ever, that ' the . unfavorable action of
the British foreign office on the notice
of the intention of the new amnassa
dor to cross the Atlantic his post came
as an- unpleasant surprise. It had not
been doubted here that Great Britain
would be the last power to deny the
privileged character of
officer on such a voyage.
diplomatic j
Aside from the belief that England .
would not desire to arouse - adverse
feeling in the United States by in
terference with ' the ancient and gen
erally unquestioned right of a neutral
government to receive an ambassador
or minister, ' officials hadtf counted upon
Great Britain's record In the Mason
and Slidell case to prevent such an ac
tion as reported in today's cabinet
despatches. ,
' .Cases of Precedent. . ;
The fact Is recognized that In pro
testing against the removal of the
Confederate commissioners from the
ptaomshln Trent the . British govern
ment was mainly concerned with the
violation of the protection afforded by
the British flag under wmcn jne
Trent sailed and It Is said that it was
on that account the United States re
pudiated the action of its naval commander.--
' ' , -Rnt
it is held here that the protest
also was based, on the right of diplo
matic- officers to mane- meir way tu
their posts m neutral countries with
out molestation. It probably will be
on that basis that the matter of Count
Tarnowskl's - interrupted mission will
be taken up with the alies, for.it is
wall understood, that: the - London
foreign office is; .supported by France,
Italy-and Russia-lni;-K-action. v
- It was " learned today thit the state
department -so far has not : made a
format request for a safe conduct for
the Austrian- ambassador put has confined-
itself to - a transmission . of the
request .of the Austrian government for
such courtesy. -" f - '
BOYCOTT ON TURKEYS, ;-
' BUTTER AND EGGS
By the . Woman's Good Government
League of Spokane, Wash.
Spokane, Wash., Nov. 27. The Wo
man's Good Government League today
adopted a resolution declaring a boy
cott on turkeys, butter and cgjrs until
prices are reduced. The boycott on
butter and eggs is only partial, the
members agreeing not to use more
than is strictly necessary.
'The secretary of the league was In
structed to request President Wilson
to - Institute an investigation by con
gress of the high food prices. '
CURTAILMENT OF RAILROAD
TRAFFIC IN GERMANY
Rolling Stock to be Used . for Trans
- portation of Troops
Berlin, Nov. 27. 4.00 p. m., via Lon
don, 10:30 p. m. A general curtail
ment of rairoad traffic, due to the re
quirements of the army in the matter
of rolling stock for the transportation
of troops and a desire to save coal Is
scheduled for December 1. . Train
schedules are now being revised , to
eliminate ail trains tnat can De read
ily dispensed with Sleeping and din
ing cars are beng dropped from most
or the trams.
TO HONOR MEMORY v.'"
OF JACK LONDON
Residents of Vicinity Made Famous in
. Novel "Valley of the Moon." -
:" Sonoma, CaliK, Nov. 27. In respect
to the memory Tr their late neighbor,
Jack London, the author, residents of
this city and valley, a part of which
Is the "Valley of the "Moon" mentioned
dn several of London's stories, are ex
pected jto lay aside their ordinary pur
suits on December 4. - A proclama
tion issued today- by Mayor William
von -Hacht 'Tequests all business men
to close their doors on that date from
1 o'clock to 1.16 p. m. It -also was
suggested that a London memorial day
be observed as a yearly event.
MOSES E. BANKS DEAD
AT HOME IN NEW YORK
Was for 20 Years Member of Con
. nectiout General Assembly.
" New York, . Nov! 27. Moses B.
Banks, for twenty years a member of
the general assembly of - Connecticut,
who was connected, with a book pub
lishing firm in. this city, died at his
home here today.
Mr.. Banks was born in : Fairfield,
Conn.,- June-15, '1884. While in the
general assembly of , Connecticut he
was 1 instrumental in .the passage of
laws - leading to the- advancement of
education ln tnat state.
8 O. S. CALL FROM .
. CRUISER AMERIOAIE
. '".--- i : -. - ...
Intercepted . by the . Radio Station on
. r. Sable Island. .
Halifox,' N. S.. iNov. 2S. Several "S
O. S." 'Wireless messages from -the
cruiser Amerlque were intercepted by
the radio station on Sable Island early
today.' The messages were relayed to
all liners within radius of the station.
The 1 reason for the distress calls., did
not appear , in - the despatches.
: Available", shipping, records ! do - not
meat Ion a steamer Amenaua,
Federal Reserve
Warns Bankers
ABOUT PURCHASE OF. TREASURY
BILLS OF FOREIGN NATIONS '
LONG TERM OBLIGATION
Funds Which Should be Available for
-.' American Merchants, Manufacturing
r and Farmers Are Being Diverted to
Other Channel.
"Washington,,' Nov. 27. 'American
bankers were . warned by the federal
! reserve board -today to avoid lorrkine
up their funds by .purchasing treas
ury Diiia oi ioreign, governments in-
volving long term obligations. While
specifically disclaiming "any intention
of reflecting upon the financial sta
bility of any nation, the board advised
all. investors to - proceed with caution
and formally announced to member
banks of the federal reserve system
with the liquid funds which should JJe
available to American - merchants.
manufacturers and farmers in danger
oi oems aosorDea ror otner. purposes,
it "does not regard it in the interest
of the country at. this time that they
Invest in foreign treasury bills of this
character." , , .
' An Important Declaration.
The statement is regarded in official
circles as one of the most important
aeciarauons - by the board since its
creation. Officials would not discuss
the question for publication but some
of them informally -t interpreted the
warning as the reserve board's answer
to the recent proposal of J. P. Mor
gan and - Company, British fiscal
agents in this country, to have Ameri
can bankers accept British treasury
bills of an indefinite - total Issue, ee-r
curea Dy goia reserves held in Ut
tawa. Such loans would be for nlnetv
days, with the privilege of renewal for
nve other ninety -day periods.
H. P. Davison.: of the Morgan firm,
was in Washington recently and con
ferred with President Wilson and the
members of the reserve board. It was
said later that he sought to have
(Continued on Page Two)
BEEN VOTING FOR 52 YEARS V-
ALTHOUGH NOT A VOTER,
Fact Only. Recently; Discovered That
James Lockhart. of Ordway, Col, is
Not an American.
Denver. Colo.. Nov. - 27. .ImM
Lockhart. a rancher near Ordwav.
Colo,- was granted naturalization pa
pers- in. unuea 'states district court
here today after exercising all the
rights of : citisenshfp ' for fifty-two
3 ears. : Lockhart, a native. f - Ireland,
assumea mat ne was a citizen because
ot naturalization papers believed to
bate been issued bis father before the
son- had -reached -his majority. He
voted at every presidential election
since the Civil .war,- of which he is a
veteran, held a commission in the
United States army, served as a del
egate to the republican national con
vention, served as - sheriff of Gibson
county, Indiana, and has taken an
active part in politics for many years.
Jine question of his citizenshiD arose
when he filed on government land- in
southern Colorado and it was learned
that he -was not native-born and that
no record was available to show that
his father had become naturalized.
SAMUEL GOLDSXEN SHOT t '
DEAD IN WEST HAVEN
Within a Short Distance of His Home
- : Bvj Parties Unknown.
West 'Haven, Conn., Nov. 27. Sam
uel Goldstein, a tailor, was shot and
killed here tonight a short distance
from his home, which he was ap
proaching -over a vacant lot. The
shooting occurred a' few moments aft
er he had stepped from a trolley car.
Three shots were fired Into hm, one
taxing enect in me ioreneaa near tne
top of the-head and the others in the
arm and back. The motive for the
shooting does not appear, according to
the authorities. Goldstein had $140
when he started for home and this was
still in his pocket when the body was
found. -
The police are looking for three men.
who they , believe were concerned in
the crime, but thy have a very meagre
description of them. - word has been
sent to neichboriner towns in the nope
of intersepting them.
Goldstein was about 27 years old.
TO SOAR OVER NORTH POLE
IN A HYDRO-AIRPLANE
Is the Ambition of Roald Amudsen,
the Norwegian Explorer.
New York, Nov. 27. To soar over
the north pole in a hydro-airplane is
.i,. -o u a j .i...
Norwegian explorer, who a few years
ago attained the south pole. Captain
Amundsen arrived here today from
Copenhagen to purchase two hydro
airplanes' for that purpose. . Starting in
the summer of 1918. he said, he expects
to .be in the Far North from three ta
five years. The. main object of his
flight, would be to study air currents
around .the pole. , , - -
PARDONS FOR CANADIAN
DESERTERS IF THEY REENLIST
Act of Grace to Marie the Arrival of
the ,. Duke 'of Devonshire. -
Ottawa, Ont,' Nor. 27. Pardons are
to be given to all Canadians who de
serted from the army after enlisting
for overseas service, provided they re
port for duty by December 16,- it was
announced today.' This is intended as
a nact of grace to mark the arrival of
the Duke of Devonshire, the new governor-general,
of Canada. Pardons al
so will be accorded to all deserters now
sprving prison sentences . or awaiting
trlaL - - - -.
DEALERS SAY THERE ARE
PLENTY OF TURKEYS IN OREGON
Selling at 37 Cents Seven Cents Mors
' Than Highest Prices Last Year.--"';
- Portland, Oregon, Nov. 27. Thanks
giving" turkeys -went, on sale here -today
at 36 cents a pound, the highest
price, ln..years. t"i Last, year they .were
27 cents. Dealers sad the price prob
ably will be lowered, - as there art
plenty- of birds for 'the holiday. - - -
Condensed Telegrams
Another air raid of the northeastern
cosat of England took place lasfnight
- The Brooklyn Termianl Co. increas
ed -its capital from $500,000 to $900,004.
000. ... . . .' " -. V. -., -.!. ,
The town fo.Red Leved, Ala, was
destroyed, by fire at a loss of $150,040.
-The Savannah-New York 'Transpor
tation Co. increased its capital from
$200,000, to $360,000. .
.- Fire destroyed the old Ward home
stead, erected in Revolutionary days,
at Livingston, N. J. ,
Dr. Laura A.-C' Hughes of Boston
was re-elected president of the Span
ish-American war Murses.
The strike in progress' for two
months at the Atlantic Marconi plant
at Long Island City, war settled.
William Gv,- McAdoo, Secretary of
ithe Terasury, announced tnat ae
would build a home in California.
The Green Bay Special Co. of Green
Bay, Wis., announced 'a -15 per ' cent.
increase In wages lor its employes.
" The plant of the : Northern. Illinois
nereal jo. - at jjOCKPon, in., was ue
stroyed by fire at a loss of $200,000. .
The Norwegian ; steamship ' Themis,
which stranded on leaving - Cristobal
last Tuesday night has been noatea.
The body of a woman about 70 years
years of age, was iouna in me morris
Canal at Linden Avenue,- Jersey City.
Glen Curtis will establish a United
States Government-- airship training
school at Miami. Fda.
' The exports of merchandise from the
port of New rk for the week ended
November 23 were valued at $34,145,
853. - : - " - j
Calvin Burdge,' a brother of Police
Commissioner Ralph Burdge of Lake
wood, N. J.r was fatally. Bhot while
hunting -rabbits. ; - ' ; TZ HZ. ,V '
.Three persons wefe'burned to death
in a fire which destroyed the summer
home of Mrs. Rpssell O'Hara, at Bing-
namton, xvew lorn. L
Senator Abdul Hatidhravi was sen
tenced to death by court-marital and
executed for conspiring against : the
Turkish Government.
Twenty-three thousand 'soldiers who
have been doing duty on the Mexican
border were reviewed . by . Brigadier
General James Parker.;- . .
, Col. John B. Bellinger, quarter-master-at
Governor's Island, was ord
ered by the War Department to duty
In the Philippine Island. ; ,
Henry A. Sandross, sn" artist, . of
New .York, was -sentenced to: serve
three, months in.; the . workhouse on .a
charge of disorderly conduct. v :i-ti; -M
Frank Krinsky, Is Watchman -on the
estate of Magistrate Robert C. Corneft
of New York, at Bavside. L. I.. was shot
while driving off chicken thieves..
- An unidentified man about 55 years
of age, was killed by a northBouna
trollev- car at- Fourth ' Avenue and
Twenty-second street, jnbw ions-
Brooklyn residents have been warn
ed that unless' they exercise economy
in the use of water the borough win
soon be facing , a shortage in . its sup
ply- '. -. : - ' v: '
"William J. Brvan will be the guest
of honor at a dinner at Washington
Dec 6 -to which President 'Wilson and
Democrats of tbe -senate - win oe in
vtted; v ..- . - - .- - - .
Silk and ' worsted 'manufacturing
companies of Passaic, Lodl, Clifton and
Garfield. N. J.. wtll advance tne wag
es of all their workers. 1ft per cent on
Dec. 4. . . ' . '.... ,' '
Miss Alice Cherry, who weighs 53'
pounds and Is said to be the heaviest
woman in New York, sailed for Buenos
Aires on the Lamport & Holt liner
Vestrls. 0 - ,
Wilson C. Ashbridge was sentenced
to die in the electric chair at the Tren
ton! N. J.. State Prisom during- the
week of Dec. 3 for. the murder of Eliz
abeth Dunbar. ;
- A special meeting the machine gun
board, which recommends machine gun
types for the army, will be held at
Washington next week at the order of
Secretary Baker. ,. . :
The United States collier Caesar is
due in New York this week to "take on
a Christmas cargo of food and cloth
ing supplies for the starving people of
Armenia and Sysia. - -. . - "
A campaign headed by Gov. Capper
has been started at Topeka.-Kan... to
prevent the hanging of William White
a negro soldier in the Federal prison
tn Leaveiorth .on Nov.30.
A constitutional amendment author
izing the State Legislature to grant
i oensions to the blind was adopted by
election by a plurality of 12,719.
Lilts mueavui 1 - d " . .
Two men and a boy narrowly es
caped ' death when an eastbound Long
Island train hit and demolished the
automobile in which they were cross
ing the tracks near Roslyn, L. I.
Five members of the First Aero
nautic Section of the Rhode Island
Naval Militia started for the aviation
station of the navy, at Penaiicola, Fl.,
for instruction under government sup
ervision. . . . '';-.'
- President Wilson, through Secretary
Tumulty, notified Frank . B. Connelly,
leader of a movement for an embargo
of foodstuffs, that the embargo ques
tion was receiving his -most serlou?
consideration. - .
Te Pval Sfiiv fw te Pw"mn
of Crue'tv to Animals of Great Brit
ain ha established beado'iarers st the
New. York office of the American S. P,
C.- A, for tne purpose or raising. auv,
000. In this country. . . (.'-, , $ -
Frank Sm'th ' . 'chauffeur In th
emolov of ESrnert ' Thompson Seton,
ftha naturalist, wes found unconsclmis
on the seton etat at Fort Chester,
with a fractured skull and other in
juries, later a wrecked- automobile was
found In the road..-' . . ; .-"
The amount collected for the, Red
Cross during the Yale-Harvard foot
ball game at New HaVen 'ast -Saturday
was announced last night as 88.
429.81; the largest collection yet made
in the Bowl and about a thousand dol
lars in excess of that two years ago.
HOW THE PRICE OF
Facts Developed-at. New York Legislative Committe
; 7 Investigation
PRICES ARE MANIPULATED W MANY RESALES
Eggs Bought in Decatur Nov.
Cold Storage, Are Now Considered Worth More Thn .J.
50 Cents by the PurchaserTestimony Given -Tnat
Eggs in Cold Storage Are Being Held for. the March "'A
Market and Are Insured to January 1 A Statewide j
Boycott on Eggs in New York Has Been Officially Sfnc-
tioned by the Mayors of Cities Throughout tha Stated r
New York, Nov. 27ggs purchased i Ir.g them net to' usa erst .--fei- Ur,-o 'j
In Indiana at 24 1.-2 Tents a dozen in ! weeks -xc)r fir the aacd, irrfirfti," eiilU "i
June sold in NewYork at 48 .seats i and children.",.' ' ,. - ' .'
uuli un nuvemDer , accoramg
to testimony developed today by the
legislative committee investigating the
price oi looasturrs in this state, gome
of these-eggs are still in storage here
after r having been- sold . rfpeatedly at
advancing rates,, and. an . invoice in
troduced in the evidence today show
ing mat in one or these transactions
the .eggs were represented as fresh
was . declared by a wJtsiess - to have
been' erroneously marked;
How Pnice Advanced. -
Through the examination of many
witnesses a" carload of eggs waff trac
ed from its June, sale in Decatur, Ind.,
to sales of Its contents, to New York
consumers. The 'wholesaler who
said that he bought them for 24 1-2
cents testified that after putting them
in storage ne sold them to a Brook
lyn Jobber for 25 1-2 cents and- re
purchased, them on September 8'the
marX'l having advanced, for 29 cents,
and resold them within an hour for
30 cents.
Resales to Raise Prices.
This wholesaler - testified that he
ae-ain repurchased them and again re
sold mem and testimony showed that
the new buyer disposed of them at 32
cents to Jotjibers, who in turn sold them
to grocers, who passed them to con
sumers. : Witnesses denied that these
constant ' resales were the - result of
an agreement among dealers to raise
prices. ',.,-; - - . - ,
Eggs. Held in Qold Storage.
George Ehlenberger ,ari egg dealer,
testified that some of the Decatur eggs
which he purchased' on November 15
at'34" cents andrwhich are now in
storage are worth" more than 60 cents
a dozen.. He said he sold three cases
to a fashionable hotel at 43 cents a
dozen. H& asserted that strictly fresh
eggs today , would , co.st probably 73
cents? -' Witnesses testified that eggs
now in storage, are being held in an
ticipation of the March market and are
insured to January 1. -
STATEWIDE BOYCOTTS ON-
' EGGS IN NEW YORK
Has Been Officially Sanctioned by
v Mayors of . Cities of the 'State. '
New 'York, Nov. 18. Steps for a
state-wide, egg boycott, with the
weight of official sanction from may
ors of cities throughout New York to
give it force, was taken today, it was
announced here by Joseph Hartigan,
commissioner bf weights and - meas
ures and secretary of Mayor Mitchel's
committee on food supply. ' Mr. Har
tigan said that Mayor Cornelius F.
Burns of Troy, N. Y president of the
conference of mayors of cities of New
:Yorlt state, advised him by telephone
that he was about to call-upon the
mayor of every city in the state to "is
sue a proclamation to the people urg-
VILLA. WITHDRAWING
7 FROM CHIHUAHUA CITY
200 jf His Followers Are Surrounded
. by 'Do Facto Troops.
Chihuahua City, Mexico, Nov. 26,
via -Marfa, Texas, Nov. 2". Francisco
Villa was wltfidrawipg his forces from
the city and going in a northwestely
direction, today. - Fighting took place
in the northwestern part of the city,
where 200 Villa troops fortiSed them
selves. By sundown they were com
pletely surrounded and the de facto
government officers said they. would be
annihilated tomprrow.
Forty Villa prisoners were taken fti
a cavairy cnarge yesteraay. . - -
General T re vino stated to The As
sociated Press today the de facto
troops completely dominated the sit
uation. .
FOOT AND MOUTH
- 1 DISEASE IN THE WEST
Ohio Puts an Embargo on All Cattle,
Sheep and Hogs From the West.
Cincinnati, Nov.. 27. rAn embargo
wall declared here today against all
cattle, sheep and bogs from Chicago
and East St. Louis yards-and points
west of the MississlpgJ river, because
of reports of- foot snd mouth disease
tn Nebraska, - Kansas and Missouri. .
Inoculation TCsts Being Made.
. Waa'hington,vNov. 2lJ-rtt will be several-days
before -federal experts can
determine whether.jcattio- held at Kan
sas City have foot and fnouth disease,
said a department of agriculture state
ment issued late today. Inoculation
tests are being made at Kansas City
and here. - i - -
. . t i -
COMMITTED SUICIDE BY
' HANGING IN WOODS.
John Zlatohlazsk, 77, of Durham, Was
' Despondent '' Cver Failure 'to .Get
, Pension rom' Germany.
Durham,' Conn-., Xov. . 27-- John
Zlatohlazek, 77 'yenrt old. committed
suicide by hanging in woodr about
three miles from his home during the
night. -. His body was found .day,af
ter townspeople' had scoured the town
since last night.-' when Ms disappear
ance was noticed.: Despondency due to
failure of --his pension to arrive from
Germany 1 believed to - have caused
the act. . He had served in ore ot the
German wars and. received a
pension annually.
small
EGGS IS BOOSTED
of Foodstuffs;'4iij
15 at 34'pmts, and Held in '
A
', Boycott the Only Method. ': :
"The boycott is the only 'fciPthod-by 1
i hich we can smash the power of th '
sec'al dnterrsts
n:cn are understood ' X
to control the egg - market," Mayor j
Burns believes," Mr. Hartigan said. - j
"The programme he proposes la that I
each commodity in turn shall receive ' i
the same treatment and that in the i
public interest the mayors will egi- 1
tate the same proposition with regard .
to each article. In cities elsewhere S
the boycott is being adopted with ofH- A
cial sanction."- He said motion pic- '
ture interests have volunteered to help "
the boycott campaign by flashing slides - i
In their theatres Informing : the pub-- ji
lie what to do from time to time a
different foods are put under the ban 4
In order, to break up the "alleged spec-,' ?
ulation which is said to be causing .
abnormally -high prices..' J. -.' ".
' . To Provide Eggs at 35..- .
John J. Dillon, ' state commissioner .
of foods and markets, announced to-
day he expects to bring from country -3
districts of the state more storage
eggs to sell here at 35 cents a dozen,
having already ' disposed of .160 cases
of thirty dozen each. He said he was
prepar to lay before Governor Charles
S. Whitman plans for a terminal mar
ket by-which he- hopes to. .reduce the-
cost of living. ... i
Governor Whitman has ' been , en--S 4
gaged for several days, it, was learn-
ed here today, in conferences looking": 1
toward legislative action to- relieve
conditions.
t:-""':V 1
GOV; WHITMAN TO .'ACT,
ON HIGH COST OF LIVING;
To Urge Legislature ;fto -' Appoint
i Commission .to .Deal With' th bues. '
tion. . '.,
.: - -. -'-'. .-r - - - '
New York, Nov." 27.-i-A. state com.-,
mission to deal with the present in-,
creased cost of living will be urged:
on the legislature, by Governor -Whit-'
man, he announced Jiere tonight,'
The situation j calls for .. "legislation -and
effective accomplishment," the!
governor asserted, he firmly -believed. j
He added that It might take a. week or i
two to complete the plan he and oth- i
era prominent in the campaign to i
lower food prices' have in. mind,. - ; 3
CHICAGO TAKES ACTION '. . U H
ON PRICESOF EGGS.' i
To" Enforce; Lav' Prohibiting' Storage
" for More Than Ten Months..,:. , -::
Chicago, Nov, 27. The city council .
today adopted Tin. order directing the
police to--enforce-vigorously: the city
ordinancS prohibiting . tne storage- of
eggs for more than ten months. The
ordinance has been, ignored since its
adoption in 1912. - '
SENATOR LAFOLLEAAE
RECEIVED 118,162 PLURALITY
Official Returns Made, Including Sol
dier Vote. . . . .
' . .' ---- - i - . ...
Madison. Wis.. Nov.- 27. Complete
official returns, including the soldier
vcfte .retelved by .the secretary- of
state, show, that United States Sena
tor Robert' M.- Lafollette, republican,
received a plurality of .118,163 ever his
democratic . opponent, .William -F.
Wolfe. ' . ' - .
Senator" , Laf ollette's - plurality - ex- .
ceeds by more than 15,000 the largest
plurality ever before given to any
candidate for any office in Wisconsin. :'
NAVAL ACADEMY IS ; ' . ' - -
" --' ' "f "TO BE ENLARGED
" t -. ' a :
TofaEnable Doubling of the Corps pf
- Midshipmen, as 'Authorized.. .V-
Wabhington, Xov. ' 27. Secretary
Daniels announced today , that . he had
eought President Wilson's appro-al of '
a supplemental estimate for the naval
academy to be submitted seen to the
house naval committee, how framins,
the 1318 navar appro-priation bilt; n-. -largrement
of the academy will be uec-" ,
essary because- congress last yenr an- - ;
thoriicd doubling the corps of mid
shipmen. ' . .' .. '. . ..
FEW FOREIGN STEAMERS ' " ' : .V "
IN TP.ANSATLAjrriC LANE;
Probably! Bsoause ni Viroless Warn-ir-3s'
3cr.t 'O'ut. V"
' Boston, Xov.: 27 The iraM -Atlantic ,
fcteamcr iane, rtnni-. south of-Nan-1 ,
tucket shca'e, hs f.U'-inoon. In the ri-'.
cinity ot which f.e sl.ipuwc-re sunk by
the Qprm-m jtiVt. -ri;:! 1T-51 on O-ctij.
8, ,was virtiiaHy cle-ir of for.gn l:af-, ;
fic today- according t- reports re-.,
ceived hera This ppa'ent abandon
ment of the regular route of shipping
was believed' to oe due to wireless
warnings sent . out yesterday toy the -British
eruiser I Lancaster off Sendy
Hook notif-ing steamer captains' that
German war submarines were' -sup- ,
posed to be in this vicinity.
Incoming ship reported a rough sea
which would ordinarily .Interfere- with,
extensive submarine operations. - -
Movements of Steamships. '
Copenhagen, - Nov. 84.- Arrived:
Steamer Oscar IL New York.
l.lv-MTOnl Nov. 26. Arrived: Pteam-
er St. Paul. New York. Sailed: Steanj-
r St. Louja. New York.. r
3
-j
: 1
-
?
A
n
