117EATHER FORECAST for Kansas:
A NOT I! Kit thing to be thankful for:
no fear of ZcpK-lins in this eoun-
tr.
Fair tonight and Wednesday:
somewhat colder Wednesday.
HOME EDITION
TOPEKA. KANSAS. TUESDAY EVENING, NOVEMBER 28, 1916 TEN PAGES
TWO CENTS
FATAL
I J
9 !
F.M. Brady, Ass't U.S. Attor-ipUJ
ney. Meets Deatn in lopt-na. i
Accidentally Tlunges Thru a
Window at Throop Hotel.
SUFFERED WITH RHEUMATISM
Believed He ' Fell When
Tried to Open Window,
He
Thru Plate Glass Four Stories
to Pavement Below.
"MYSTERY LETTER" A MYTH
Communication Contained Le
pal Papers Not Torn Up.
No Coroner's Inquest Was Con
sidered Necessary.
Francis M. Brady, assistant United
Stati-a district attorney, plunged thru
n thref-elKhths inch plate glass wln
ilow. from his room on the fourth
floor of the Throop hotel, shortly be-
Francis 51. Brady.
fore midnight Monday, and was In
stantly killed when he struck the
pavement. Brady had prepared for
bed, and left a call for 7:30 this morn
ing and had called for ice water but
a few minutes before he was killed.
He was clad only in his underwear
when he fell.
No Coroner's Inquest.
As an indication that there was
absolutely nothing to the suicidal .
theory advanced by published sensa- j or sweethearts. Stalwart German ii
tional reports, the coroner did not call I fleers delegated by the military gov
an inquest todav. The fact that Brady , ernor to maintain order told sobbing
died by accident was accepted by all. women that the departing men would
The body was taken to Parsons via i "Bet 8ood wases and send them to
Kansas City on Santa Fe train No. 6yu" , , . , ,
this afternoon. Burial in Parsons. Nearly 200 Belgians who had fled
Coroner Marcotte stated that the ' to escPe deportation yesterday cross
accident occurred when Brady at-I eJ tne Be'sian frontier into Holland,
tempted to close the window. Clergymen and some classes" of work-
w.... . ,i . , . ers in specified lines of trade or pro-
Scntionulism Advanced. fessl'on , exempt from deportation.
In a sensational story, a morning
paper advanced a suicide theory, based j Pioneer Railroader Dead.
on a special delivery letter received GulPh Ont.. Nov 28. David Mc-
by Brady before he went to his room,
The
etter was claimed to have been
torn to bits and thrown in
dresser .
drawer in the man's room.
Coroner '
Marcotte failed to find these pieces of
paper. The coroner however, has the
special delivery envelope. This after- i '
noon Fred Robertson, thru communi- I States district court. He was direct
cations with his office in Kansas Cltv. i ing the prosecution of government
announced the contents of the letter, i
ine envelope contained five affida-1 cases had been made by the attorney
vits for u?e in liquor cases. The affi- , and he had discussed his plans with
davits were to have been used today court attaches during the evening. He
by Brady in the prosecution of cases j left the hotel shortly after 8 o'clock,
in Judge Pollocks court. An assist- Fred Robertson's Theory.
"n t? lt fflc,Hhad nailed Fred Robertson, United States dis
m,w n nllli f he env'Pe itrict attorney, today explained Brady's
i Kn -.?TIT-5j coroner, bears death by a statement that the assist
ed in KanV sVi?; m in U maJ " 1 ant district attorney was awkward
f rr ,n stJl.?T L ?Ionday ! and at times clumsy on his feet. He
fn iTeni 1 k?v,' P m',andibeliev Brady fell in his room.
" ' "Zy- nT seclalde -crashed thru the half open window
euerva The,and was killed on the payment.
Hradv , w eredatt he hotel during -Frank's weight was nearly all
to , 1 ? h d wf ,t"Cf Tld by above his legs," said Robertson. "He
xn , his ro,? " the lobby to was awkward, at times even clumsy.
Bu 1 J Ills I OOTTl. j , v. ; nn.t- ti a .
Clerk
Moor
tic pci w joraav nnn tho
do Z,r?r '(hSOT,Fi"te(1 lesal I not doubt that he fell against the win
rece m of .he?e HoV fol,der- , 14 was dow and was killed. The idea of sui
affidaviVs m.h "veliquoncide. advanced by a morning paper, is
theoi v foTa TsuSde reporter used as i criminal. Brady's home life was ideal.
nrJtor Mri,t!" . His "nancial affairs were the best. He
ca fhoroiv hI", 'r;"11':ited ,hc ' had a certain government position for
hardlv a remote n . , ' r
iic ut"i;iiirf4i inpr.' xx- rj w
theory.
"It isn't probable," sain Doctoi
Marcotte. "that a man who wants to
kill himself will jump thru a three
eigHth inch plate glass when he can
more easily jump thru an open win
dow." All of the cases before the TTnit.i
States district court for this term will
2 . , " Ior lms term wi"
-r't," ,,q,, cfly as. P3-
sible. Then Judge Pollock wil
ad
journ tne session in respect to
dead man.
the
The lawyer's friends emphatically
denied early reports that Brady
had committed suicide. They claim
that he was subject to at
tacks of inflammatory ' rheuma
tism and light attacks of paralvsis.
These attacks are claimed to have
been more severe and pronounced since
Brady's recent experience in the wreck
of the Kock Island's Golden State
Limited near Topeka.
Brady came to Topeka Monday to
attend a special session of the United
HAD BABY MONEY
Husband Took Pennies From
Tiny Bank, Says Wife.
Then She Said He Threatened
to Kill Child's Mother.
THUMB IN HER MOUTH
"He Tried to Break My Jaw,"
Mrs. Benford Declares.
He Is Now Being Held at the
County Jail.
When Charles Hixon arrested C. C.
Benford of 101 Duane street Monday
night upon the complaint of his wife,
he found In Benford's pockets a dou
ble handful of pennies. Benford ad
mitted, according to Hixon, that he
hud taken them out of a bank belong-
ing to one of his three little children.
! Besides the pennies he hac $15 in his
' pocket.
I When Mrs. Benford filed her com-
plaint she was carrying a 6-m,on.hs-!
old baby. She charged that her hus
! band had beaten her and threatened
j to kill her. Her left eye bore mute
i evidence of some sort of an assault.
I "I got up to warm some milk for
the baby Sunday night," said the frail
little woman, "and the trouble started.
! The baby had been crying and that
! seemed to annoy my husband. He
I grabbed me, knocked me down, then
I put his thumb in my mouth and tried
to break my Jaw. He told me then
I that the next time he would 'finish
me. He wasn t arinKing. tie was just
mad."
Benford is a carpenter and his wife
says he has been out of work. She
Rtated also that he has been urging
her to take the three children and go
to relatives in Missouri until he found
a job.
Benford is in the county jail. Mrs.
Benford was afraid to go home until
he was arrested.
MOVING BELGIANS
Work of Deporting Men to Ger
many Has Begun.
Two Hundred Escape by Flee
ing Into Holland.
Rotterdam, Nov. 28. "Germany's
deportation of unemployed Belgians
from the province of Liegu to the In
terior of Germany where they will he
given work, has begun. An endless
stream of trains, carrying hundreds of
civilians of the stricken little kingdom
crossed the frontier into the Teuton
empire thruout the day. Correspond
ents of Dutch newspapers describe the
pathetic sight of the scores of heads
cramming against the train windows,
the involuntary "passengers" trying to
catch a last glimpse of their father
land before being put to work by its
conquerors.
From many of the cars came the
faint chorus of Belgian folk songs. As
the trains moved out of the stations
throngs of women and children fol
lowed them, running alongside the
cars, reaching for a last handshake
wlth' tne husbands, fathers, brothers
xieoll until recently senior vice presi-
f r.r v, r..Hi n Poifi rtend
hprp Mis imina will be buried in
Montreal T-Te wn.. born in Ararbath.
Scotland" sixtv-four v.
i""la'"'' slxt IOUr
years ago.
liquor cases. Plans for trial of today's
un his feet. He suffered from rheuma
n . a i ui t j..
i . . e : i .
" . !" luiure.
had time deposits in at least two Tj
peka banks and every ' circumstance
surrounding his caily life was that to
make a man happy and contented. The
appearance of his room is the clearest
possible evidence of his mental condi
tion and every incident shows clear,
clean cut plans 1'or the future."
Robertson stated that the letter sent
to Brady was in
one of the regular
official envelopes and related to office
business. He had not seen the letter,
but stated that he was positive the
special delivery envelope contined af
fidavits for use in court.
Liquor found in Brady's room was
probably for use in the trial of whisky
cases, the district attorney said.
Among his friends and acquaintances,
Brady was not known as a drinking
man. Altho he occasionally took a
drink, friends of the man today de
clared he had never been known to
arinK in excess.
Shortly before 11:45 W. H. L. Pep
perill. internal revenue collector. In
(Coutloued on Page Two.)
BOYCOTT ON EGGS
Chicago Women Join to Check
Food Speculation.
Adopt Resolution to Use No
Eggs for Four Weeks.
MOVEMENT TO BE NATIONWIDE
New York Housewares' League
Champions Egg Boycott.
MoTie Shows Help; N. Y. State
Officials Enlisted.
Chicago, Nov. 28. Headed by the
Woman's City club and the Chicago
Political Equity league, members of
several civic organizations and wom
en's clubs today were to co-operate in
an attempt to check soaring food
prices.
The Women's City club and the Chi
cago Political Equality league are cen
tering their efforts on an egg boycott.
Members of the former have pledged
themselves to refrain from the use of
them as long as the present high
prices continue and members of the
latter have adopted a resolution to
boycott eggs for four weeks and to
appoint a committee to investigate the
possibility of legislative action.
In addition five measures designed
to curb the advancing cost of living
were introduced in the city council.
Those adopted Include one calling
on the city health commissioner and
the hief of police to enforce the city
ordinance prohibiting regrading of
eggs.
A dispatch yesterday stated the Na
tional Housewives league at New York
had declared a boycott on eggs.
New York, Nov. 28. The attack on
high food prices begun here by the
Housewives' league and certain city
officials spread today thruout New
York state. The promoters declared
that the movement promised to be
come nation-wide, altho the local cam
paign now centers on eggs and begin
ning today recommends a two weeks'
boycott.
The motion picture exhibitors' as
sociation has volunteered the use of
every moving picture theater in the
city to carry out the campaign.
Official action under the direction
of Governor Whitman was forecast in
the announcement that the govern
ment was in conference with George
W. Perkins regarding remedies which
the state could undertake. Mr. Per
kins is the chairman of the mayor's
committee on food supplies.
While efforts have been made to
extend the boycott to, turkevs and
other foodstuffs now commanding
high prices and subject to speculation,
it Is believed that such action, if
taken, will await the result of the cam
paign against the high cost of eggs.
For City Coal and Wood Yard.
Chicago, Nov. 28. A special com
mittee of nine aldermen today was
considering the establishment of a
municipal coal and wood yard as a
means of alleviating the fuel shortage.
SINK U. S. VESSEL
Crew of 35 Rescued Founders With
Hag Flying.
New York, Nov. 28. The steamer
Chemung-, reported from London as
sunk, was an out and out American
vessel and, carried a crew of thirty
live men, practically all Americans.
The cable announcing her loss car
ried only the usual information per
mitted by the admiralty of the vessel
being "sunk," presumably by a torpedo.-
At the offices of Harris Magill
& Company, agents of the owners, it
was said no information had been re
ceived from their offices abroad.
She sailed from New York on No
vember 8 with a general cargo. At
the Magill offices it was said she car
ried no munitions. She left Fayal in
the Azores a week ago and was due at
Genoa next Monday.
The Chemung was torpedoed near
Cabo de Gata, according to the dis
patch. The steamer foundered with
the American flag- flying, it is added,
the captain having formally refused
to lower the flag.
SHOOT UP U.XSHIP
Navy Vessels Stacks Hit by Bullets
From British Steamer.
New Orleans, Nov. 28. The U. S.
S. Neptune, attached to the federal
quarantine station near the mouth of
the Mississippi river, arrived at the
dock here today with two holes in her
steel smokestack, which were made by
bullets fired from a high powered
military rifle by some persons aboard
the British steamer Scythian of the
Ley land line while at the quarantine
station last Saturday, according to re
ports made to federal officials by the
quarantine authorities today.
BANDITS RAID CAFE
Patrons of "Toughest Cabaret In St.
Louis" Deliver Coins and Gems.
St. Louis. Nov. 28. Four bandi.s
held up twenty men and five women
in a saloon and cabaret here early this
morning and obtained $1,050 worth of
diamonds, a $150 watch and $75 In
cash. The bandits escaped. The
cabaret is two blocks from a police
station and its patrons are said to bo
comprised, for the most part, of mem
bers of the underworld. It is known
as "the toughest cafe in St. Louis."
The bandits met with no resistance.
TO STOP "CORNERS"
Ham Lcnls Has Plan to Seize Food
Supply.
Chicago, Nov. 28. Plans to seize
food and necessities held In gigantic
corners by commission men and
brokers and distribute them to the
public thru stations established in all
parts of the larger cities, were advo
cated here today by J. Hamilton Lewis
of Tllinois. Democratic ourtv whin in
I the United States senate.
TO FIGHT PLAGUE
Stockmen of Entire Country
Watch for Cattle Disease.
Twelve States Closed by Foot
and Mouth Scare.
AWAIT REPORT OF EXPERTS
Federal Officials Inspect Herds
Thought To Be Affected.
K. C. TardS and Exchange
Building Are Disinfected.
Kansas City. Nov. 28. With em
bargoes from a dozen states against
the receiving of cattle shipped from
the local stock yards and from adja
cent territory except for immediate i
slaughter, representatives of the fed
eral bureau of animal industry and
live stock commissioners or Missouri
and Kansas today were anxiously
awaiting developments in the infection
found in a shipment of cattle from
western Nebraska which has showed
alarming symptoms of the foot and
mouth disease.
The local force of veterinarian ex
perts was expected to be augmented
by the arrival of live stock authorities
from Illinois and other states imme
dittely involved in the ever-widening
quarantine net thrown out by watch
ful state executives and live stock-
commissioners. What has been the ef
fect of the virus taken from animals
in the infected lierd and injected into
healthy cattle, horses and swine was
a matter of conjecture, according to
the veterinarians. They asserted it
probably would be another day before
the serum would have time to show a
result.
In the meantime, officers of the
stock yards were working with aug
mented forces, placing every pen, sta
ble and sty in as clean condition as
possible. The campaign extended even
to the Uve Ptock Exchange building,
a nine story structure, which was In
for a washing with disinfectant, even
to the outside walls. .
nesult of Tests Fnoertaln.
Chicago, Nov. 28. Facing the pos
sibility of a renewed outbreak of the
hoof and mouth disease, live stock
men here awaited with some anxiety
today the outcome of the federal diag
nosis of suspected herds in Missouri,
Kansas and Nebraska. Dr. S. K. Ben
nett, head, of the bureau of animal
industry in Chicago, with Dr. F. C.
Day. federal veterinarian, and Dr. F.
S. Mather, an expert in stock plagues,
left here last night to investigate sus
pected cattle In the Kansas City yards
today. "T6
Results of tne Inoculation tests
however, will -not be known for sev
eral days and it is expected that the
Kansas City quarantine will remain
effective until then. Meanwhile au
thorities here announced that the pre
cautionary measure taken by Dr. O. D.
Disson. state veterinarian of Illinois,
prohibiting the shipment to the stock
yards of Chicago and East St. Louis
except for immediate slaughter of any
cattle, horses, swine or sheep from
Kansas, ' Missouri and Nebraska will
not be rescinded until all possible dan
ger of infection is believed past.
Officials of the Union Stock Yards
& Transit company asserted also that
their embargo order against live stock
from all points west of the Missouri
will be effective as long as it seems
necessary as a precautionary measure.
V. S. Inspectors In Charge.
Washington. Nov. 28. Until the
nature of the disease found in cattle
in Kansas City is fully determined, the
department of agriculture is taking
every precaution, it was announced
today, to prevent its spread.
"Inspectors are in charge of every
(Continued on Page Two.)
JAPAN IS TRADE RIVAL
Big: Growth in Jap South America
Business, Report Shows.
Washington, Nov. 28. Japan has
developed into the most formidable
riva! of the United States in the for
eign tra'de field, according to figures
of the department of commerce.
In the period from January until
October, Japan's exports to South
America increased 130 per cent, and
its imports from South America 154
per cent over the amount for the same
period in 1915. Exports to South
Africa increased 310 per cent. Japan's
gold reserve October 13 amounted to
$324,025,000.
While competing with the United
States in other fields, Japan found a
greatly increased market for its
products in America.
TRAIN RUNS INT0AUT0
Preacher and Woman Killed Son of
Latter Seriously Injured.
Mount Carrol. 111., Nov. 28. The
Rev. W. E. Wredey and Mrs. Dana L.
Fulrath, both of Chicago, were killed
near here today when a motor car
in which they were riding was struck
by a freight train. Bert Schmaling,
Mrs. Fulrath's son, was dangerously
injured. Mrs. Wredey was connected
with the Illinois Children's Home and
Aid society.
Later: Schmaling died later as a
.result of hie injuries.
HOLD BORDER TROOPS
Guards Ordered Home Stopped by
Villa Activities.
Washington. Nov. 28. The situation
at Chihuahua City, where Carranzistas
and Villistas are battling, is consider
ed such that it probably will halt pres
ent plans for returning several more
national guard regiments to their
homes, it was learned from official
war department sources today.
The department had expected to
send two or three more regiments
back home this week.
Drys Spent Quarter Million.
Lansing. Mich., Nov. 27. It cost be
tween J250.000 and J300.000 to make
Michigan dry. according to estimates
made today at dry campaign headquarters.
DERIDE WARNING
X. Y. Financiers Scout Reserve
Board's Precaution.
Loans Will Stop When Cease
To Be Good Bisks.
APPROACH TWO BILLION MARK
Federal Beserye Board Sends
Out Tip to Bankers.
Allies May Be "Biting Off Mor$
Than They Can Chew."
New Tork, Nov. 28. New York
bankers today said they did not be
lieve the federal reserve board de
sired to Interfere with granting of
loans to the various warring nations
and that the board warning Was di
rected only at certafn classes of loans.
As for shutting off loans to the bel
ligerents, one banker said such action
was not in sight.
"When American bankers and In
vestors come to the conclusion that
war loans are not good risks, war
loans will cease," he said. "But there
is nothing to Indicate the approach
of such belief."
Loans made by American bankers
to the warring nations are now ap
proaching a two billion dollar total.
The larger transactions include:
I -1st of War Loans.
Anelo-Frenrh credit S5O0.nn0.0o0
First British collateral loan 250.000,000
Second British collateral loan.. 300.000.000
French collateral loan 100.000.000
French commercial credit 100.000.000
City of Paris loan...' 50,000,000
renen municipal loan to cities
or oraeaux, lyons ana Mar
seilles fiO.000.000
Rasilan loan (secured) 50.000.000
Kusslan loan (unsecured) 2r.00O.00O
Wheat purchase credit (British) 25,000,000
CANADIAN LOANS.
Dominion $120 000.000
Provincial 55.000.000
Municipal fiO.OOO.OTO
Open credits in London 100,000.000
Total , $1,795,000,000
Issue Safety First Warning. -
Washington, D. C, Nov. 28. Safety
for America, Americans and their
money lies behind the federal reserve
board warning, published today,
against undue loan expansion, secured
by foreign treasury bills, experts held.
Some declared a possibility of unset
tled conditions ahead was the imme
diate move for the warning. Many
read into the board statement an ac
tual apprehension as to the outcome
of oormous financing of the allies,
especially in view of the possibility
that they are "biting -off more than
they can chew.'
The board, however, disclaimed any
intent of reflecting on or discussing
the status of foreign nations involved.
Ita sole idea, eaid the statement, is tj
keep America's funds liquid and to
avoid tying- up funds thru the pur
chase of foreign treasury bills under
long time obligations
'The board deems it ita duty to cau
tion member banks that it does not
regard it in the interest of the country
at this time," said the statement,
"that they invest in foreign bills of
this character."
The order was taken as a reply to
J. P. Morgan & Company for approv
al of loans contemplated under the
treasury bills method.
OVERRULEJVIR. WATSON
Wanted to Compare Alleged Obscene
Literature With That of Gov't.
Augusta, Ga., Nov. 28. Trial of
Thomas E. Watson of Thomson, Ga.,
once candidate for president on th3
Populist ticket in 1904, on charges of
having sent obscene matter thru the
mails, entered into its second day in
federal district court here today with
the government prepared to resist ef
forts on the part of the defense to in
troduce specimens of recognized clas
sical literature which Watson has
claimed contains language similar to
that employed in the articles cited in
the indictment against him.
Watson, acting as his own counsel,
yesterday was overruled in his efforts
to compare his works with publica
tions of united fctates government
bureaus. Admission to the court room
was by passes only and few outside of
those connected with the case, mem
bers of the bar and newspaper men
reporting the trial succeeded in getting
cards. .
MILD WINTER DAYS
Temperature Drops to IVeezlng at
Xight Colder Wednesday.
Hourly temperature readings fur
nished by the weather bureau:
7 o'clock 31 I 11 o'clock 50
8 o'clock 33 I 12 o'clock 52
9 o'clock 37 I 1 o'clock 53
10 o'clock 42 2 o'clock 61
Temperatures today averaged 9 de
grees above normal. The wind is blow
ing at the rate of twelve miles an hour
from the southwest.
A light freeze occurred last night
with temperatures close to normal and
many degrees lower than the night
before. The wind was in the south
this morning and it brought a rapid
rise in temperature. Slightly, colder
weather tonight, with anothe. freeze,
is expected, according to the forecast
which calls for fair weather tonight
and Wednesday; somewhat colder
Wednesday.
Tonight the mercury will drop prob
ably to 3 0 degrees and Wednesday
Contintiel-oh Page Two.i
SENTENCED TO DEATH
Alabaman To Be Hanged for Killing
His Political Opponent.
Huntsville, Ala.. Nov. 28. David D.
Overton, former clerk of Madison
county circuit court, on trial here for
murder of Probate Judge William T.
Lawler, his political opponent, today
was found guilty of first degree mur
der. The court set January 12 for the
hanging. He pleaded self-dtfense.
SAW M JLIVE
Neighbor Testifies Seeing Mrs.
McDanlel at 11:30 O'clock.
This Was Hour After State
Claims She Was Slain.
CONFIRMS M'DANIEL'S STORY
Establishes Time When Attor
ney Left in Motor Car.
Unless Rebuttal Is Sensational,
State Has No Case.
St. Joseph, Mo., Nov. 28. Mrs.
Oscar D. McDanlel, murdered wife of
the presecuting attorney of Buchanan
county, was seen in the bedroom of
her home by E. E. Gard, head of a
business college, vho lives opposite
the McDaniel home after the prose
cutor had left , his home about 11:25
o'clock the night she was slain, ac
cording to Card's testimony today.
Gard. who testified in the criminal
court at the trial of the accused prose
cutor, told' of having observed Mrs.
McDaniel, clad in a light evening
gown, thru the window of her bed
room about 11:30 o'clock that night.
"I feel positive the woman I saw
was Mrs. McDaniel," Gard said. He
declared he had been seated on his
front porch. He described having
seen the prosecutor drive up to his
home in his motor 'car, "about" 11
o'clock. Twenty-five- minutes later,
Gard said, the accused man left home
in his motor car.
Saw Her Thru Window. "
Five minutes afterwards, Gard said,
he saw Mrs. McDaniel thru her bed
room window, the shades of which
were up.
Bart M. Lockwood, special prose
cutor, said in his opening statement
that the state would .show that Mrs.
McDaniel had been killed before 11
o'clock.
Attorney General Barker cross-examined
Gard, asking if Gard had testi
fied at the coroner's inquest that he
could not see the windows of the Mc
Daniel home from his front porch.
"It has always been clear to me
that I could see the window from
where I was standing," the witness re
plied. The Jury spent several minutes in
examining exhibits of pieces of motor
car hoods and fenders, introduced
both by the state and "2fense, against
which test shots had been fired. The
exhibits were accompanied by the tes
timony of two automobile experts who
sought to develop the definse theory
of the revolver duel McDaniel declares
he engaged in the night of the mur
der. Thomas Deakin, a barber, testi
fied that Mrs. McDaniel and Mrs. Iag
mar 'Krucker. divorced wife of a St.
Joe business man, had taken their
children together to his shop to have
their hair cut two days before the
murder. The two women were fre
quently together in his shop, he tes
tified. Denies "Scream" Story.
. In addition, Mrs. E. E. Gard gave
testimony to the effect that the in
dicted man retu.-ned to his home in
his motor car about
1 1 o'clock the
night of the murder
Mrs. Gard the
mother of Erold Gard, head cf a local
business college, and Mrs. F. M. An
drews, a neighbor, testified that Mrs.
Wilhelmina Hermann, state's witness,
had said it was odd she had not heard
anything from the McDaniel home the
night of the murder. The conversa
tion reported by the two witnesses was
said to have been shortly after the
murder.
Mrs. Hermann, who collapsed on
the witness stand, testified she had
been awakened before 11 by screams
identified as being the voice of Mrs. J
McDaniel. Mrs. Gard declared this'ei.. to ctc ti. .,
morning she and her son were on SlumPs 13 Cents, Then Rallies
their front porch at 11 o'clock the I
night of the murder and watched the
accused man " drive his car into his
garage. AIcDaniel has said he r?-
turned to his home about that time,
later answering a fake telephone call.
the criain of circumstantial evidence '13 cents a bushe! were shown for
I woven by the state, and unless the . a brief interval, the December deliv
j promises Of sensationalism on rebuttal i ery falling to $1.60, as compared to
1311 dv dii tne aeiense nas lorn nnwn t
'are rulriiled there is little prospect or
' the tountv prosecutor being convicted,
lt is believed here. i fore today's session ended and the
The preponderance of testimony j finish, altho excited, was at a setback
thus far has been with McDaniel. it is j of 5 to 7 net.
the general beli 'f in St. Joseph, and S Embargoes announced on six rail
today it seemed that the balance wheel roads to the seaboard shutting off
of public opinion here also had turned grain outlets from here to the sea
in McDaniel's favor. board had much to do with starting
Defense Puts on Sixty Witnesses. I the wild attempts to unload. Word
, , , . of German naval activity on a big
The defense already has introduced I aJe aeem,nK to indicate possibly in
more than sixty witnesses after having I creased difficllIty for grain exporters
announced when the state rested last in shipping from the United States
week that only fifty would. be sub- tended also to put hoIders o( wheat
poenaed. Among those who have not j lnto a 8emf.panic.
yet been called are Mr. McDaniel, E. E. '
Gard, head of a business college here.
and C A. Cook, head of the local tele-
! phone company. Both were friends
' of both the murdered woman and her
indicted husband, and their testimony
has been characterized by attorneys
as being important for the defense.
START AN EGG BOYCOTT
Illinois Newspapers Begin Fight on
High Priced Hen Fruit.
, , , T1"; r: Brooks has been general live stock
Kankakee. Ill Nov. 28. The Even-(agent tor the road since 1909 and be
ing Democrat of this city and eleven came an employe of the road twenty
other papers of northern Illinois out- two years ago. Mr. Brooks has ac
side of Chicago have taken up a crn-cepte"d a position with a packing com
sade against the high price of eggs. pany in Chicago.
The newspaper conducted a vote in j
the downtown theaters when a vote i lll I IMfJ fUC DAD MCM
of 1,500 was cast overwhelmingly in j IMLLIIlU Ull DHL) litLll
favor of a boycott on eggs. Voters
pledged themselves not to buy eggs
APPEAL TO NEUTRALS
Greece Objects to Coercions Employed
by Knteute Powers.
Athena. Nov. 28, via London. The
government oi Greece looay appealed ; know just wno to Kin, ana tney are
to the neutral nations thru the Greek : fast weeding out the bad men of the
diplomats at the respective neutral district. They've grown tired of mur
capitals against "the coercions beinfr rir and arson and blackmail. nn,l tn
(employed by the entente prwera to-
wards Greece."
VILLA ISVIGT0R?
De Factos on Border Profess
Ignorance of Situation.
Mysterious Messages Puzzle U.
S. Officials at 1 Paso.
iTREYINO FLEEING SOUTH
Villa Operators Cut In and Wire
Taunts to Juarez.
Gen. Trerino's Message Admit-
ting Defeat May Be Forgery,
El Paso, Nov. 28. United States
government officials here claim to
have received positive infoniation re
garding the reported evacuation of
Chihuahua City by Gen. Jacinto B.
Trevino, the Carranza commander,
because of a shortage of ammunition.
These officials have sent an official
report to Washington regarding this
report.
Juarez, Nov. 28. Reinforcements
for General Trevino are being assem
bled in Sauz station, thirty-two miles
north of Chihuahua City, tnd will be
led toward the city by Gen. Franci3co
Gonzales, commander of the Juarez
brigade, who left here early today
with a train loaded with men and mu
nitions, it was officially announced at
military headquarters.
Washington, Nov. 28. Army offi
cers on the border advised the war
department today that they had heard
repeated rumors that General Trevino,
the Carranza commander at Chihua
hua City, had evacuated that city be
fore the continued attack of Villa ban
dits. The war department, however,
had no official confirmation and was
inclined to doubt it.
El Paso, Tex.. Nov. 2 8. Without
definite news in three days of the
siege and battle for possession of Chi
huahua City, uncertainty among Uni
ted States authorities here is verging
toward conviction today that the
"capital of the north" may havebeen
captured by Villa's bandit army. Unless
General Trevino, with his Carran
zista army is now fleeing, Villa still
is besieging the city on all sides.
In United States department circles
these convictions are founded upon
admissions made by Carranza officers.
During last night a message purport
ing te be from Terrazas station,
twenty-five miles north of the state
capital, told briefly of the evacuation
of the city. The message was signed
with Trevino's name.
White admitting that such telegram
hal come, Carranza military officers
. at. Juarez profess to regard it as a
forgery. '
Says Villa Captured City. ... -
Since the siege of Chihuahua City
began. Villa telegraph operators have
cut in on the telegraph lines, catching
messages. Several times they have
cut in with taunts of cowardice.
Later in the night another message
came declaring Villa had captured the
city and that General Trevino was
hurrying south. United States depart
ment officials confess they are puzzled
by the mysterious wires.
Statements from Mexican de facto
officials early today that they had in
formation from General Trevino by
way OI ujinaga yesteraay, but that the
i situation was uncnanged," are taken
I aj ?he strongest indication that the
Villista forces are suvroatiding
the
capital closely.
WHEAT J5TAMPEDE
Prices Go to Pieces in Excited
Rush to Sell.
5 to 7 Cents.
Chicago. Nov. 28. Wheat prices
went to pieces late today in & general
stampede to sell. Extreme losses of
i" fi-ns ' me ciose yesier-
i day. Rallies, however, took place be
SANTA FE AGENT QUITS
Head of Live Stock Department at R.
C. Takes Chicago Position.
Kansas City, Nov. 28. Announce
ment was made here today that F. S.
1 Brooks, general live stock agent of the
(Atchison, Topeka & Santa Fe railwry,
with headquarters in Kansas City, has
: submitted his resignation to become
(effective January 1, 1917.
Citizens In Chicago's Little Italy Take
Law In Own Hands.
Chicago, Nov. 28. A detective in
vestigating one of the many recent
murders in Chicago's "Little Italy"
made this statement today:
"It's the reputable Italian citizens
who are doing the killing now. They
make their plans with precision: they
I them killing the bad men seems the
only solution."
SHOOT
DOM
ZEPSS
Two German Dirigibles Dropped
by British Airplanes.
Zeppelin Fleet Makes 27th
"Call" on England.
PLUNGE TO EARTH IN FLAMES
Makes Five Destroyed by Brit
ons in Three Raids.
Official Report Claims Slight
Damage to Cities.
London, Nov. 28. Eight thousand
feet aloft, above the North sea, British
hydroplanes sent a German Zeppelin
hurtling down to destruction in flamea
today. A little earlier, anti-aircraft
guns, co-operating with an aeroplane
accounted for another German air
raider of York and Durham counties
the great cruiser also sinking, Aflame
into the water.
Graphic details of the British suc
cess in repelling the twenty-seventh
aerial raid made by the Germans
since the first of the year were " an
nounced today by General Lord
French,, commander-in-chief of the
British home forces. He said damage
in lives or property from bombs drop
ped by the raiders over York and
Durham counties during the night
were believed slight.
The first Zeppelins, which appar
ently entered over Durham was pur
sued by an aeroplane as it turned
homeward. Not until the Zeppelin was
over the sea off the Durham coast
did the British aviator succeed in
reaching a vital part. Then he brought
the great dreadnaught of the air
down, a burst of flame.
Make Repairs In Flight.
The second German Zeppelin en
tered over North Midlands, dropping
bombs at. several- places, General
French's statement said. Then ahe
turned homeward and she sought to
escape, with British aeroplanes pur
suing and anti-aircraft guns peppering
her aerial course. Finally the great
vessel was apparently struck. The
last part of her journey was made
with little difficulty, the Zeppelin
lamely pressing onward. She was un
able to reach the coast by daybreak.
Later, somewhere aloft on the Nor
folk coast, the German crew apparent
ly effected repairs. The machine Im
mediately proceeded eastwards, aris
ing raoidlv to a hflsrtrt nf ii nnn
Then four naval aeroplanes attacked
the
nvaaer, nine miles at sea. An
armed trawler, aided in the attack.
Finally a shot reached a vital part and
the great ship sank from the sky
blazing at 6:46 a. m.
Witnessed by Thousands.
Thousands collected on the shore
Breathlessly witnessed the duel of
forces of the air. water and land
for shore batteries also poured their
fire at one of the sky dreadnaughts,
joining in the fusillade from aero
planes and armed trawlers. There was
a great cheer from these spectators of
the combat as the Zeppelin rushed
downward, destroyed, like a great
blazing comet.
Six Lost Since September 3.
Germany has lost one or more of
her Zeppelin fleet on every attempt
she has made at a raid over England
since September 3. With last night's
score, Germany has lost six giant ma
chines since that time.
Use of an inflammatory bullet in
aeroplane rapid fire and anti-aircraft
guns repelling Zeppelins has mado
i Druinn ueienaive worK against tne
German raiders particularly effective.
I Lieutenant Robinson was the first of
wie iiuine guaru aviators to oring down
his Zeppelin prey and by such a bullet
This was on September 3, when the
raiders killed two and injured thir
teen by bomb dropping. On Septem
ber 23, two more Zeppelins fell victim
to England's defensive system one ?y
shots fired from n aeroplane, the oth
er from the fire of an anti-aircraft
gun. On October 1. the fourth dread
naught of the air was brought down in
similar fashion.
Youthful Aerial Defenders.'
Travelers from England who have
tCnntinlipd on Page Two.) '
P. H. Morrisey Dead.
Galesburg, III.. Nov. 28. P. H. Mor
risey. assistant to the vice president of
the Chicago. Burlington & Quincy rail
road and former head of the Brother
hood of Railway Trainmen, died here
today after a prolonged illness.
TURKEYS GO UP
4 CENTS A POUND
IN SINGLE JUMP
Chicago, Nov. 28. Thanksgiving
turkey, like Christmas presents, should
be bought early if the present indica
tions of the market here now mean
anything. Prices on the holiday fowl
went up to 27 cents on the Chicago
wholesale market today, a raise of 4
cents. ' I
This means that the consumer will
have to pay form 35 to 38 cents, and
perhaps more If the present active de
mand and limited offerings continue.
Turkeys are about 12 cents higher
than last year. The dealers say that
the shortage is caused by the limited
supply due to a cold, wet spring ana
a hot summer.
