We
n-.
SJBV
vx3STRA7
NIGHT
EXTRA
Ctmunn
Iieuaer
:
NIGHT
EXTRA
6
:h
TFlftANCIAL 'EDITION
fi
VOL. III. NO. 65
.HTY"SEVEN DAYS UNTIL CHRISTMAS-HERE ARE
i am" i ir in i a n i
. jai. . .L:fcij, v) -tLji-ii'fm,Tw'fc-itf'ifffit TRjffur ywi
More than one thousand of the firs,
way yards, at Nineteenth street and
GERMANS TAKE
GIURGEVO; GAIN
N ALTTALLEY
Mackensen's Troops .Now
Only 35 Miles From
Bucharest
tKVRTEA ARJESH FALLS
Falkenhayn's Forces Drive For
ward in Region of
Campolung
BERLIN', Nov. 28.
The German allies are now only thlrty
flve miles from Bucharest, the Itumanlnn
capital.
Official announcement as mndo today
of the capture of Glurgevo, which Is di
rectly couth of Bucharest and only thirty
five miles away. Glurge Is on the Dan
ube and lies at the terminus of a short
railway line running Into the capital of
Kins Ferdinand's kingdom.
Kurtea Arjesh, an important railway
town In northern Itumanla, Is also in the
hands of the Austro-Germnn forces. This
town Is not far from Campolune, ono of
the chief objecthes of the army of General
ion Falkenhayn.
More crossings of the Alt Hler have
been gained by the Teuton nllies.
Under the powerful blows of the Ger
mans, Austro-Hungarlans and Bulgarians,
the defense of the Busso-Rumanlan forces
U crumbling to pieces all around Bucharest.
The text of the official report follows:
Army croup of Archduke Josef On
the eastern frontier of Transylvania
the firing Is much lheller. Several
Itusilan roconnoltering detachments
were repulsed. The Alt has again been
crossed by us
New operations ha,vo been commenc!
by up and the fighting is progressing
In our favor.
Kurtea Arjesh ls In our possession.
Army group of Field Marshal von
Mackensen (Dobhidja) The fighting
activity In this lone has been limited.
The army of the Danube has gained
further ground. aiurgeo was captured
by us yestirday,
SOFIA, Nov. 28,
Three armies of German allies have
creased the Danube from Bulgaria and In
vaded Rumania.' The "War Office announced
today that these crossings were effected
from Vldln, Lorn Palanks and Behovo.
BUCHAREST, Nov. 28,
Using: gas and tear 'shells the Teutonlo
forces In patrol engagements, backed up by
artillery Are, are attacking Rumanian
troops Jn the Bure Valley as far as Dragos.
Uvele, the War Office reported today,
In the west there were no engagements
yesterday, except on the extreme right the
Rumanian positions were under heavy
aemy bombardment On the left wing there
was nothing of Importance,
Alpng the Danube the statement reported
CooUnutJ en rate I'Iti, Column Fur
THE WEATHER
FORECAST
For Philadelphia and vicinitlhGen
erqlty cloudy and warmer, wifft prob
akly rain late tonight or on Wednesday;
moderate southerly winds.
LK-SGTII OV DAY
fun rlu 7 (to ra. Moan ric g IS P m
M ti iaap in. I Moon south" 3.U p. m.
DELAWARE RIVER tWK CHANCES
CHESTNUT STREET
tow wUr 10J$ n i Uy waUr H:2Sp.H
TEMPERATURE AT EACH HOPR
sUftLlH.?! U-J"34-AU5
loaded on immense freight cars, nrrived in Philadelphia today. They aro lying in the Philadelphia and Heading Kail
Allegheny avenue. They arc said to bo scarce and will probably command a high price owing to the gypsy brown
moth blight. The Forestry Department has placed a quarantine on the trees.
WILSON WILL NOT
URGE PEACE NOW
President and Aids Decide
Against Proposing Nego
tiations to Europe
GERARD TO WARN BERLIN
Ambassador to Caution Kaiser
on Submarine Activity and
Deportation of Belgians
WASHINGTON, Nov. 28 President Wil
son and his closest personal advisers In a
scries of conferences In quick succession
decided this afternoon not to malto any
doflnlto move, toward obtaining peace In
Europo nt (his time, it a Btatcd In
officl.il circles. American diplomatic rep
resentatives abroad who have been "feeling
out" tho belligerent nations upon the sub
ject will bo Instructed Immediately not to
commit this Government as being Insiitcnt
that peaco como quickly
Ambassador Gerard, It was learned, re
ceived Instructions to Inform tho German
Government upon his return to Berlin that
the now German submarine warfare "makes
Is seem apparent that German submarine
commanders are running the risk of v lolatlng
tho pledges glen to this Government"
Tho Ambassador was also instructed to
tell the Berlin Foreign Offico that tho
United States would "seriously regret" any
interference with American rellot work In
Belgium by the deportation of Helgians to
Germany."
Ambassador Gerard will leave Washing
ton tomorrow und sail from New York
Tuesday, carrying out the Instructions
upon his arrival In Berlin
Tho conferences with tho Tresldent were
attended by Colonel JIouso, Ambassador
Gerard, Secretary of State Lansing and
Counselor I'olk, of the State Department.
BERLIN HI AY CONFESS
ERROR IN MARINA CASE
WASHINGTON, Nov 28 A carefully
guarded wireless message received this aft
ernoon by Ambassador von Bernstorff from
the German Foreign Office, was reported
here to contain Information that a- Ger
man submarine sank the British steamship
Marina October 28, with tho loss of flyo
Americans, in violation of the submarine
warfare pledges given to the United States,
It was further said that an official note
to this effect for delivery to Secretary of
State Lansing was now being prepared by
the Berlin Foreign Office, admitting that
"u mistake" wub made and containing an
offer to make "full reparation '
Ambassador von Bernstorff refused to
make any comment concerning the report.
It was admitted, however, that he might
present Important papers to the State De
partment tomorrow or Thursday. It was
believed that only the gravest matters
would be taken up on a holiday.
CHMUNG, AMERICAN
SHIP, SENT TO BOTTOM
2615-Ton Vessel Belonged to the
Atlantic and Pacific Trans
portation Company
LONDON, Nov 28 The American
steamship Chemung lias been sunk
The Chemung, according to Lloyd's list
ing, 1 owned by the Atlantic and Pacific
Coast Transportation Company She waji a
steel vessel t 8615 " was i. (M ij,
length aA was 1&US Itf t&n Iftfta Iter I
HOUSEWIVES ASK
FEDERAL ACTION
Two Millions Appeal to
President to Regulate
Prices of Food
DEMAND TO CURB EXPORT
Governor Whitman Plans Com
mission With Competent Man
in Charge of Work
CHICAGO, Nov. 28. Thirty million
dozen of eggs, enough (o supply every
man, woman and child in the United
States with more than three eggs each,
were discovered by Government in
ventigators in n cold-storage warehouse
today. The eggs were bought last May
at twenty cents a dozen and are, under
stood to be held by James K. 'Wetz,
self-styled "egg king."
NHW YOBK, Nov 28 Formal appeal
for Government regulation of the countrj's
food supply was forwarded to President
Wilson today by the representatives of
2,000,000 women of tho National House
wives' League.
Simultaneously Patrick 13 Qulnn, Gov
ernment Commissioner for Now South
Wales, explained the Australian system of
food control nnd recommended Its adoption
by the United Staten
The plea of tho housewives and the rem
edial system outlined by Qulnn dovetail
with Governor Whitman's move for tho
regulation of New York's food supply by
a State food commission Both Qulnn and
President Mrs Julian Heath, of the House
wives' League, praised Governor Whitman's
action
Tho housewives' resolution, adopted by
the State chairmen ot the league from every
State In the Union, bases Its appeal on the
assertion that "tho people of the United
States are suffering from exorbitant prices
due to shortage of crops, Increased export,
decreased Import nnd speculation"
The league's appeal urgc3 the Govern
ment "to determine by all possible meth
ods the food supply needed to feed the peo.
Cenllnunl on Vast Two, Column. Thre
SANTA SENDS FIRST LOT
OF CHRISTMAS TREES
One Thousand Arrive From Vermont
Woods Children Rejoice, but Par
ents Will Pay More
A positive Indication ot the fast approach
ing; Yuletlde presented Itself this morning
In the forn? of 1000 Christmas trees, Sevi
era! carloads shipped from the upper Ver
mont woods arrived at the Philadelphia
and Heading Railway yards at Nineteenth
street and Atlegheny avenue.
Packed tightly In huge freight cars of the
Canadian Pacific Hallway and covered with
a frosty coat of thin Ice, they were slowly
hauled to their temporary resting place. A
few momenta later the "kiddles" of the
neighborhood Who were on their way to
school heard the glad tiding and rushed over
to take a "peek "
Gee ! Santa Claus la sure to come again
this year," shouted onq of the youngsters
TThe war ain't goin' tq stop him "
The nevys may not have the same pleasant
results to4the parents, for it Is learned that
Christmas trees are likely to be scarce and
bring high prices. Vermont trees are said
to be at a premium, owing to a blight caused
by gjpsy-moths. The Forestry Department
has ordered that all shipments be thor
oughly Inspected before leaving In other
words. It la n veritable, quarantine
Delaware College Gets $100,000
WILMINGTON. DeL, Nov 3 J An anon
ymous friend of Delaware College, who has
riv.n t about Jl.0O0.U00 In the last year.
taday presented another 10.80 for de-
PHILADELPHIA, TUESDAY, NOVEMBER
THE TREES
TW0ZEPPE
WRECKED;
SHELLSLONDON
British Fliers Bring Down
Giant Cruisers Return
ing From Raid
THRONGS VIEW BATTLES
Four Injured 'When German
Plane Drops Bombs on
Capital
LONDON-. Nov 28
night thousand feet aloft, above the
Hngllsh Channel, British hydroneroplancs
sont a Gorman Zeppelin hurtling down to
destruction In flames today. A little earlier
anti-aircraft guns, co-operating wjth an
aeroplane, nccountcd for nnothcr German
air raider on? York and Durham Counties
tho great air cruiser also sinking, all.une.
Into tho water.
A German aeroplane dropped six bombs
over tho city of London toilaj. Ucn
cral French reported that four persons were
Injured, one, a woman, seriously. The of
flclat statement said the aeroplane llew at a
great height over the city and was partly
concealed In the hazo It appeared be
tween 11 00 and noon Hxccpt for those
Injured, tho statement said, tho damage
done by tho bombs was slight.
Graphic details of tho llrltlsh success In
repelling tho twent -seventh aorlul raid
by the Germans since the first of the year
were announced today by General Lord
French, coinmauder-lu-chief qf tho British
home forces Ho said damage In lives or
property from bombs dropped by tho raiders
over York nnd Durham Counties during the
night were believed slight.
The first Zeppelin, which apparently en
tered over Durham, was pursued by nnaeru
planq as it ,turn A homeward Not until the
Zeppelin whs over the sea off tho Durham
coast did Ihe British uvlator succeed In
reaching a. vital part Then lie brought the
great dreadnought of tha air down, a burst
of flame anti-aircraft guns co-operating
The second German Zeppelin entered over
North Slldlands, dropping bombs at several
places, French's statement said Then It
turned homeward nnd sought to escape, with
British aeroplanes pursuing 1'lnally the
great vessel was apparently struck The
last part of her journey was made with dim
culty, the eppelln lamely pressing onward
She was unable to reach the coast by day.
break Later, somewhere gloft on tho Nor
folk coast, tho German crew apparently ef
fected repairs. The machine Immediately
proceeded eastward, rising rapidly to u
height of S000 feet Then four naval aero
planes attacked the Invader nine miles at
sea. An armed trawler aided In the attack
Finally u bhot reached a vital part and the
great ship sank from the sky a blazing
niasa at 8MB a. m
Germany has lost one or more of her
Zeppelins on every attempt she has made at
a raid pver England since September 3
With last night's scor Germany has lost
sis giant machines since tha( time
GIANT "SCALPS" UUTCHEIt
Arrested, He Tells Cops He 'Lives in
Arlington Cemetery
A giant who was refused money today
attacked A. J. Bonsor, a butcher In the
Beading Terminal market, according to the
police, and inflicted a serious scalp wound
with a hatchet before he was arrested
Tbe alleged assailant, Charles Horner,
made Bonsor unconscious with a blow after
an argument over money Bonsor was tak
en t- the Hahnemann Hospital, where five
stitches were taken to close the wound.
Horner, who Is six feet three Inches tall,
was held in f 1009 ball by Magistrate Tracy,
ojf, the Central Station Be told the polte
Hat lived ift Attests Qwwtfqi
28, 1910
CortamnT,
QUICK
WHEAT BREAKS 10 TO 13 CENTS? GAINS A TRIFLE LATER
CHICAGO, Nov, as. Tho whont nmikct vnn demoralised by
henvy Helling1 townul the close lothty. l'llew melted by quarters nnd
halves nmtd intense excitement until 1imb of 10 to t.'l cents from
the mcvlons close wciv teconled, trhoi' wnti n mlly nl the end on coy
ling, but final quotations wcie 0 to 7 1S conta net lower. The whirl
wind followed reports concerning diplomatic lclntlons nntl more
lesti lotions by lnlhonds on the movement of grain.
RAILROADS MUST RETURN EXCESS 130X CARS
WASHINGTON, Nov. UtJ.llctmna by cadi inllrontl of all box
cats on its lines in excess of ttic mtmbei owned by I'i'.it line waa
in dcied today by tho conference committee- on car efficiency of tho
Ameilcnn Hallway Association. The order was issued "in the inter
til of the public to meet an cincijjcucy."
MYSTERIOUS SHIP SENDS CALL FOR HELP
HALIFAX, Nov. i8 New niVHtcty was attached hero today to wireless S. O. S.
calls picked up by tho Knblc Island Motion fiotn a steamship which signed horself
"Amerliiuc." No such vcrsi-I Is IIhIi-iI In shipping records, and mnrltlmo men Hay
thej never heard of her. The calls were quite distinct mid weie lelnvcd to vessels
In n wide radius No I canon was civ on for tho distress calls
DISGRACED NEW YORK GUARD OFFICER "FIRED"
WASHINGTON. Nov. 2S Tho War Depirtment today announced tho dis
missal of Klrst Lieutenant Clvdo I-'. Mnrlon, Kevcnty-llrst Now Yoik National aunrd,
who was convicted by ioui t nmrthil of diiinkcniicss nnd "conduct unbecomltiK an
ollleer and a kimiI Ionian" while on dutj on tho Mexican border. Tho conviction
wns npptoved In 1'iesldent Wilson.
PLATE GLASS COMPANY INCREASES WAGES
TOLKIX). O, Nov 28. The Kdvvaid I'ord Plate Glass Company will voluntarily
Increase the vvnees of Uh 1S00 eniplojt-s eluht per cent, elTectlvo December I. Tho
nvcinKP dally wnpe Is now $' CO.
MINT GETS $8,500,000 IN CANADIAN GOLD TODAY
A shipment of Canadian nold valued at $8,500,001) la on Uh way lieio from
Ottawa tuul will arrive at tho Philadelphia Mint home time lato today. Tho gold
Is accompanied by armed kuuuI.s nnd will be taUen to the Mint from the railroad
station In heavily KUnrdcd evproHS wagons Tho i;old IicIoiikh to .1. I' Morgan & Co.
VERHAEREN, BELGIAN POET, FATALLY HURT BY TRAIN
HAVIIL3, Nov. 28 A dispatch fiom ltoucn snH that i:mll Verh.icion, well
Known HulRlun poet, wns fatally injiucd by falling beneath a moving train today.
BRITISH STEAMSHIP REPORTED SUNK,
LONDON, Nov. 23 Tho Dltcrmnu liner City of Birmingham has been sunk.
(Uojd'H lists tho City of Birmingham as a Htecl vessel of "lys tons, with Liverpool
her homo poit )
EDGE'S MAJORITY, FOR .JERSEY GOVERNOR, 09,617
THDNTON, Nov. 23. Governor-elect Walter 11 Hdgo's olllciaj majority was
69,617, tho State Board of Canvassers was Infoimod this nfternoon nt Its meeting
In tho Stutohouso The llgurc: also show Hint United .States Senator elect Joseph S.
rrellnghuyjen, tho Republican nominee, was chosen by a majority of 71,690. In
the totals for Assemblmen the Republicans had a majority of C5.013 Tho average
vote for tho Republican electora wan 208,082 nnd for the Democratic 211,018, a
iTTffeionco of 57,904. The Hgnn road bill was can led by a majority ot 89 250.
SOUTH AND MIDDLE WEST TO MONOPOLIZE FARM LOANS
WASHINGTON, Nov. 23. Tho rcBources of tho Federal Loan Board will bo vir
tually monopolized by tho South and Middle West, It was learned today. Tho board
plans to locate inoio than half tho tvvelvo farm loan banks In that section becauso of
tho extensive farming la thoso sections Tho boaid today began laying out tho fnrm
loan dJKtrlcts tho country is to bo divided Into nnd will announce tho location of tho
twelve ccnteis by December 18.
U. S. RECALLS MILITARY ATTACHE FROM BERLIN
WASHINGTON, Nov 28. Tho War Department today olllclally confirmed
reports ot the recall of Lieutenant Colonel orcph 12. Kiilm, milltniy nttacho of tho
Amerlcun Embassy In Berlin
15600,000,000 WAR EXPORTS TO RUSSIA
NEW YORK, Nov. 28. Statistics have been given out by the foreign trade de.
partment of the Nntlonnl City Bank on tho exports of meiclmndlse fiom tho United
States to Russia since tho beginning of tho war. According to this compilation, these
exports nmount to more than J600.000.000, of which about $JOO,000,000 went by way
of tho Pacific Ocean and $400,000,000 by way ot the north Atlantic louto.
FEARS OF SUBMARINES ADVANCE INSURANCE RATES
NEW YORK, Nov. 28 Believing that German submarines nio crossing the
Atlantic preparatory to beginning a vigorous warfare against Allied commerce, sev
eral local underwriters today raised tholr rates fiom to H4 per cent on ship,
ments for South America. The transatlantic rate Is unchanged, ranging between
214 and 3 per cent on all shipments, whllo cargoes to tho Mediterranean ara being
negotiated nt 1 per cent. While two or three of tho underwriters placo little
credence In tho submarine report, others feel thnt since the British Admiralty has
seen lit to warn alt merchantmen to be on tho lookout for U-boats there must bo
pome reuson for this warning.
2600 STEEL WORKS EMPLOYES GET AN INCREASE
PITTSBURGH. Nov. 28 An increase of ten per cent in wages has been
announced by oilklnls of tho Superior Steel Company, of Carnegie. Theadvante
affects 1700 employes A similar lncreaso has been announced by the Standard
Steel Car Companj, at New Castle, la, benellttliig 900 employes. Roth are elTectlvo
December 15.
OUSTED TEUTONIC ENVOYS REACH BULGARIA
BERLIN. Nov. 28. Advices from Solia say that tha Ministers of the Central
Powers, whoso departure from Greece was demanded by the Entente Allies, have
arrived at the Bulgarian port of Kavula.
BOOK IN JACKET SAVED BOY HIT BY AUTO
A school book which a boy carried In thq breast of his jacket probably saved his
life when he was run over by un automobile at Broad and CallowhlH streets. The
lad was Joseph II. Chok, of 102t South street. Ho was r.Idlng a blayele vvhon struck,
and ho fell under tho wheels of tho motoicor, which passed over his chest. At tho
Hahnemann Hospital it was found that he had no s,e!ous Injur', The book had
acted as a fender,
SARDINIA, ISLE IN MEDITERRANEAN, SWEPT BY CYCLONE
PARIS. Jiov, 28. The Island of Sardinia, in tho Mediterranean, has been
range4 by a cyclone, according to a teport received in Rome and forwarded to
the Havos Agency. '
CATTLE EMBARGO THROUGHOUT STATE DECLARED
As a. projection asulust hoof and mouth duwase, an embargp pgahist live
stock from Nebraska and the Kansas City stockyards lis been declared through
out Pennsylvania by Dr. a J Marshall, State Veterinarian. Cattle from Nebraska
have developed a disease resemblng hoof and mouth Infection, and the -embargo
Was declared pending Investigation.
WOMEN TO SEEK 5200,000 FOR COLLEGE
Tho Woman's Medical College of Pennsylvania will begin a campaign on De
cember 4 to increase its present I5QO.040 endowment fund by an additamal 800,000.
Prominent Pblladelphlans are among tbe workers in the campaign, whleh, will con
tinue until December 16. Tbe campaign la novel in that, it will ba conducted entirely
by women,
1010, t ma Fcsuo LtMi Cauriiit
NEWS
PItlCE ONE CENT
DEATH GAMBLE "
IN COPS SEEN IN
PENSIONDEALS
Councils Asked to Probe
Insurance on Police
Here
WHO PAYS PREMIUM?
WHO GETS INDEMNITY?
Councilman Thompson
Hints Scandal Connected
With Pension Mutual
POLICIES ARE FOR $250p
"Who la making money out of the deaths
of Philadelphia's policemen?" This Is the
purport of n resolution which was taken to
Councils todny by Common Councilman J.
Walter Thompson, of the Forty-sixth Ward,
nnd which ho said ho would Introduce at
today's session.
The resolution nBks a councllmanlo ln
vcstlgatlon Into tho affairs ot the Police
llcncflclary Association In tholr rolatlon to
tho Pension Mutual Life Insuranco Com
pany of Pittsburgh, nnd It recites the fact
thnt policemen's lives and deaths nro virtu
ally being gambled on.
Mr. Thompson, In his resolution, says h
lias Information that policemen's funds, as
Invested In the Beneficiary Association, are
Invested In tho Pension Mutual Life Com
pany and because that company's capital I
reported to hav an Impairment of mora
than $1,000,000
WHO PAYS PREMIUMS?
lie Hnj.s ho has learned that lives of
policemen nre bolng Insured without havlnc
to undergo tho usual formality of a physi
cal! examination, nnd that an unknown
"philanthropist" pays tho premium. H
naa ho unnta to know who this is and
how It hnppcns thnt policemen's deaths can
bp made to mako money for people.
Tho Pension Mutual Life Insurance Com
pany, of Pittsburgh, which Is mentioned la
Councilman Thompson's resolution, la the
company for which a receivership hearing
han been set In the Dauphin County courts
December 12 next, and which Is dominated
by Lyndon D. Wood, nometlmcs called the
"Insuranco wizard" of America, nnd th
president ot the Pension Mutual besides.
being tho dominating head of tho Coiisoll-Hl
dated Investment Company and the union
Casualty Company.
Tho resolution which Councilman Thomp
son said ho would offer to Councils Is an
follows
WHEREAS, It has como to my at-'
tcntlon that sovcrnl thousand members
of tho Philadelphia police force, who
aro members of the Police Beneficiary
Association, are Insured through that
organization with the Pension Mutual
Life Insurance Company; nnd
WHEREAS, It has been reported that
this Insurance company In faced with a
capital Impairment of more than $1,
QOO.OOO; and
WHEUEAS, I have been informed
that none of tho policeman Insured
through the Police Beneficiary Asso
ciation themselves pay premiums to the
Pension Mutual Llfo Insurance Com
pany, but that the premiums are being
paid by some unidentified "philan
thropist," and
WHEREAS, I learn that policies are
Issued on these policemen without
their having to undergo the usual for
mality of u physical examination,
therefore
BE IT RESOLVED, thnt a council
manic committee be appointed to in
vestigate Just how the Police Bene
ficiary Association Is Identified with the
Pension Mutual Life Insurance Com
pany, who pays there premiums on the
lives of policemen which they them
selves don't pay, and who gets the
money when one of them dies ; In other
words, to find out who Is making
money out of the deaths of Philadel
phia's policemen.
BENEFICIARY ASSOCIATION
The Police Beneficiary Association is com
posed of several thousand members of th
Philadelphia pqllce force. The lives of
large percentage of these policemen are In
sured In the Pension Mtual Life Insurance
Company. Each policy, It Is (understood,
Is for 12500,
Ever since the lives of the policemen were
Insured In the Pension Mutual Life Insur
ance Company, paments for J2500 have
been made by that company to the associa
tion. These payments, which usually cam
In the nature of a check and made payable
to the Police Uenltlclary Association, wera
deposited In the djrard Trust Company In
the name of the association,
WHERE JS100 GOES
Later a check was drawn on the associa
tion In the name of the person who deliv
ered, the original check from the Insurance
company for about 92100, enriching the
treasury of the Police Beneficiary Associa
tion with 100 The: check for J3409 usutUr
went to the unidentified "philanthropist"
The insurance of the policemen In the
Pension Mutual Life Insurance Company
mis placed soma time in 1916 by Seth II.
Whltely, a life Insurance agent qf this city
with ottlces at Third and Walnut street.
Recently when Mr Whltely was asked who
was paying the premiums on the insurance
for the policemen he said that was being
done by certain persona who had warm
spots In their hearta for members of the
police force He has steadily refused to
reveal the ldentltxof the man or men wh
hav a been paying tho insurance premium.
QUBSTION PVADBO
Olttora of the Police Bnflciary Asseek
atlon, when asked who was payinj? tfe.
premiums, hav usually d.smuised the Ques
tion as follows!
Wa liavo no idea who is paying y
premiums, but if doesn't interest a
because uvery time that A policeman
who Is a member of our association
dies, and who Is insured in thf Penluu
Mutual Life Insurance Company, our
balance In the bank la Increased wuh
JilO or jnort
i P. UaKnoj ctaainaaA of Cat&ntM
' CVnuaiti', I MtmnMv iu-- jK
m
4T mi at isi
4m& emsm w mm- ssS I hup-
-ft
"Jlllr' f
