I =? ' ? ' __==
ably^^tlowed'b^ra^i6 tomorrow; TCT "Prom IW to HOW* |
ill ni> JlrnI>iiTiTn S?T!Si M *????
^ "fow.srK.'i'f^a'w,58^!,-pm M IvI 11 ww I I i III I I I I I rl I
i /^^/V>V4 IvV* ?
? I Jp I I / <irora Wet Clrevlatlra, Moatb of October.
CLOSING NEW YORK STOCKS PAGE 20. N- MM. Dally Anngf. 7M?li SaaOay, 58.071.
No. 29,516. WASHINGTON, D. C., TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 28, 1916.-TWENTY-FOUR PAGES. * ONE GENT.
VON MACKENSEN IS
37 MILES FROM THE
RUMANIAN CAPITAL
Giurgiu Captured and Invader
Has Railroad to Aid Advance
on Bucharest.
VON FALKENHAYN TAKES
TOWN OF CURTEA DE ARGES
King Ferdinand's Forces Apparently
Driven From the Defensive
Line of the Topolog.
Two important announcements are
made by Berlin today !n reporting: continued
progress of the Teutonic inva- ,
Bion of Rumania?the capture of Giurgiu.
on the Danube, and the taking of
Curtea de Arges. on the Arrgechu river, j
eighty miles northwest of the capital. | \
The capture of Giurgiu places Field j s
Marshal von Meckensen's army, ad- | (
vanc'.ng from the southwest, only -thir- J i
ty-seven miles form Bucharest, with a c
railroad running thence, along which j t
the advance may be pressed. j f
In occupying Curtea de Arges Gen. ^
von Falhenhavn's troops apparently J
have driven the Rumanians from the ! a
line of the Topolog. and may even have ' t
broken, near its northern end. the line j r
of the Argechu. along which the Ru- j t
manians were expected to make a de- , \
cisive stand.
Thus the semi-circle about Kucha- j *
rest and the Rumanian armies is grad
ually. but steadily, being drawn closer. J
Substantial successes are reported by i *
Berlin in the new operations for tight- , 1
eaing the grip. ^
Line of tii3 Alt Taken. :!
Teutons Begin New jc
Rumania Operations' I
H ?!'** Astoria ti'd Pniw. j t
BERLIN. November 2$. via wireless 1
Sayvilie. N. Y.?The Austro-Gertnan ' *
. ces in western Rumania are con-,
tinulng with success their drive toward : c
Bucharest, the war office announces. v
New operations have been begun and ^
f additional ground has been gained by ;
the invaders.
The Bulgarians have captured the!
impoitant Danube town of Giurgiu, on
the railroad south of Bucharest. ' r
The Rumanian town of Curtea de ft
Arges, south of Campulung, has been ^
captured.
The war otfi.ee announced last night a
that the whole line of the Alt river, in j v
Rumania, is in the hands of the Teu- j t
tonic troops. i
According to the military correspond- | c
ent of the Lokal Anzeiger. the booty :
taken by (Jen. von Falkenhayn's forces r
at Craiova comprised oil, benzine and j
rubber in quantities that exceeded ex- j
pectations. , i:
! g
Situation Is Imnrovina
. ? t
for the Rumanians,
London Is Advised ;
Bv tin- P!*k*.
LONDON. November 28.?The military ( '
situation in Rumania is improving for ,
the Rumanians, according to a dispatch 1
received today by the Wireless Press ^
from Bucharest by way of Rome. Field j
Marshal von Mackensen is said to be J
making no material progress. The Ru- ' 15
manian retreat, it is reported, is in per- g
feet order on a settled front. c
Military critics here still cling C
atanchly to the hope that the Ru- *
manians. notwithstanding latest seri- (\
ous developments for then:, will be able f
at least to avoid defeat and bring the i t
invaders to a halt, it is remarked that ; li
the Rumanians although still retreat- ;
ing preserve an unbroken front except | t
at one non-vital point, while the very ' s
moderate German claims regarding r
prisoners, guns and booty is surprising b
in view of the rapidity of their advance. <\
Th** expectation now is that the Ru- c
manians will fall back behind the
Argechu. not risking a decisive battle f
until they rea? h that river. *
Salvation of Bucharest.
If they can consolidate there they |
may. it is argued, hold the Germans j ?
arid protect Bucharest. It is recalled j v
that Bucharest ?s defended by a girdle j ^
of forts which were of some defensive \ j
value thirty years aeo but which can
\
? no more keep the Germans out of the I ^
city than the Scheldt forts kept them '
out of Antwerp. Therefore, the capital;
ran only be saved by operations in the i
field. Such operations, the critics claim, :
may even result in a Rumanian victory ,
if the Rumanians have a reserve army '< .
corresponding to the t>th French Army '
which saved Paris from Von Kluck. j ?
Tne Argechu arid Alt- rivers may then i
play the part to Rumania that the j .
Marne and Aisne did for France in 1914.
The Rumanians' greatest danger is j j
considered to lie in the advance to the) [
south by 'Jen. von Delmensingen's j
Danube army which captured Alex - i
andria. Altogether the situation, al
though difficult and likely to entail!
considerable sacrifices on the part of!
the defenders, is held to be by no means t
desperate. Moreover, confidence is ex- j
pressed that the Russians will soon be,
heard from. ! 1
j I
Three Danube Crossings
Effected by Bulgars:
Claim riiihmriia Quince .
. . WV.M. UMJU WUVVVOO
t
Br th?* A*iociat?4] Prc-??. f
SOFIA. Monday, November 27, via
London. November 28.?Bulgarian troops
have effected three more crossings of
the Danube, all of them behind the
Austro-German front In western Rumania.
The crossings were made from 1
the Bulgarian fortresses of Rahovo,
Lorn Palanka and Vidin. This announcement
was made by the war office.
which also reports the repulse of
Russo-Rumafiian attacks in Dobrudja.
The statement follows:
"In Dobrudja there was artilllery,
firing along the whole front. By a '
strong counter atta? k we drove back
the enemy from hill 234 and the village
of Krkenek and dispersed two
battalions near this village. We also
repulsed easily an attack by certain
portions of the 3d Russian Cavalry Division
against the narrow strip of territory
east of Lake Tachaul. as well i
k as an infantry attack south of the
village of Ester. Turkish artillery
drove out enemy infantry entrenching
itself opposite the Turkish troops.
"Two Russian warships bombarded
without result our positions near Lake
Pacha ul."
"Between Rustchuk and the Cerna
("along the southwestern Rumanian
front) artillery tiring occurred, the
enemy hurriedly fortifying the left
bank of the Danube. Our troops and
those of the enemy that crossed the
Danube near Sistova continue their advance.
according to the plan, in Wallachia.
Xear the village of Rahovo our
troops crossed the Danube and occupied
Beshet. Other Bulgarian troops
crossed the Danube near the towns of
Lom-Palanka and Vidin and occupied j
the opposite bank. The town of Kala- I
fatu (in Rumania, opposite Vidin) is
in our power."
ENVOYTOBERUN
SEES PRESIDENT
Embassador Gerard Talks
Over Foreign Situation From
German Viewpoint.
SAILS FOR POST TUESDAY ;
James M. Gerard, the American am>assador
to Berlin, made a brief call
it the White House today and will
onfer with President Wilson once ,
nore?this afternoon or tomorrow?
:oncerning the situation abroad, from l<
he German viewpoint. Mr. Gerard sails : ,
or his post next Tuesday, going by ;
vay of Denmark. i,
Mr. Gerard was asked to remain over ! j
l day. that President Wilson might 1
alk with him personally this after- |
loon and discuss the submarine situa- I i
ion and the deportation of Belgian j5
vorkmen to Germany. j,
Jermany Expected to Keep Promises | 1
Upon the submarine subject tne am-j j
>assador will be in a position to take i i
>ack word to Berlin that the United |c
itaies stands squarely on its previous- |.
y outlined position and expects Ger- j r
nany to live up to her promises fully, jj
On the deportation of Belgians, Mr. j
lerard will supplement the representa- 1
ions already made to the Berlin for- |
ign office by Charge Grew calling at- j 1
ention to the effect of the deporta- !1
ions on neutral opinion, and exercise *
ivery effort he consistently can to j I
lave the situation alleviated. is
After a visit to the White House exe- J
utive offices this morning Mr. Gerard j f
rent to the State Department for i .
nother conference with Secretary i J
-ansing. I J
To Interpret Embassy's Reports. ' j
The Americm ambassador has been i
Leeping in close touch with develop- *
nents in Berlin since he left there. He
as gone over all the reports received 1
y the State Department from officials 1
t the embasy, and at his conference 1
nth the President will interpret the *
enor of these reports as they have 1
hanged since he left Berlin. J
Mr. Gerard adroitly declined to ex- ' }
?ress himself as to whether he shared j <
he apprehension seemingly prevalent | j
n many quarters that the United j .
Itates is bound to have serious trouble j *'
vith Germany over submarine operaions
before long.
Ask6d regarding the cost of living
n Germany and in this country, Mr. 1
lerard said that prices prevailing in 1
ierman restaurants were no higher ,
han in similar places in the United
;Utes. Of course the variety is not i 1
s great, but for the staples of life the '
lermans pay no more than the people ]
iere. 1
T^ast evening Ambassador Gerard was 1 '
he dinner guest ?>f Secretary Lansing,
ierman Ambassador Bernstorff and
oseph E. Willard, United States am- ]
assador to Spain, also were present. j
Yesterday afternoon Secretary Lan- t
ing and Ambassador Gerard were in ;
onference at the Stat? Department. | <
Conditions generally in Germany are 1 j
aid to have been talked over at j ;
ene-th. and it was suggested at the , ,
epartment that Mr. Lansing outlined | ?
ully the attitude of this government t
oward the deportation of Belgians for ?
abor in Germany. ,
In discussing the latest reports of ,
he possibility of a new crisis over ,
ubrnarine warfare. Secretary Lansing
eiterated his belief that there was no ! ,
asis for the agitation. Ambassador L
ierard will sail from New York lie- j j
ember f? for his post at Berlin. ,
Jol. House Confers |;
With President Wilson |!
Col. K. M House was a White House j 1
;uest today, and. besides coriferring/j :
rith President Wilson, spent some j j
ime with Counselor Polk of the State j j
>epartment and Ambassador Gerartl.jl
vho postponed his departure for New 1 ]
fork until tomorrow. ! j
Col. House is understood to be opti- I '
nistic over the submarine situation j
ind confident that Germany will carry]4
>tit her pledges. He said todev 'o- had , '
10 plans for a trip to Europe at I
/resent.
It is generally believed that any move j
or pear e by President Wilson will be '
ireceded by a visit to Kurope by Col. !
louse. ,:
Cabinet Will Assemble
First Time in Afternoon >
President Wilson spent the morning
oday playing golf with Mrs. Wilson. |
* ? ' ** I-" U'hlto !-Inu<4P Khnrllv _ I
ere o'clock and returned near noon, j
He had ijr? appointments to see visitors
luring the day. He broke another,)
precedent when he gave orders that
he regular meeting* of the cabinet ,
dtouid be held this afternoon at 2:30 j'
/clock, and at that hour in the future ,
intil further notice. j
Ther is no recollection on the part of
jldetit Wnite House employes of after- j
ioon cabinet sessions. It is not known
whether the 1'resident proposes to I
make the afternoon hour a regular one,
Out it is hinted he may do so. the object
being to give him more time for ;
seeing visitors and attending to office '
work in the morning.
This week the 1'resident will play
golf each morning when he has opportunity,
but next week, with <*ongress
n session, the presumption is that the
['resident will resume his regular
schedule of seeing visitors in the forenoon
in the executive offices. So far,
since his return from Shadow Lawn,
he has not worked in the executive offices.
spending his working time in the
study of the White House. The fact
that senators and representatives are
fit work in the afternoon Is expected to
I'ontinue the time-honored policy of
making engagements for them in the
morning hours, when they can be away
from the Capitol.
v..
CLERKS PAID MORE
ONCE UPON A TIE
Salaries Were Increased ir
Order to Meet High Cost
of Living.
BUT THAT WAS LONG AGO
A 20 per cent increase for every government
clerk in Washington ami
every government official on duty at
less than $3,500.
The sum of $410,000 given to the Secretary
of the Treasury by Congress, to
be distributed to the clerks of his own
department, as he saw fit, in lieu of
specific raises.
Thus runs the record of legislation
for higher pay to government clerks in
the two years following the close of
the civil war, when prices were high,
ind when there was just such a clamor
is there is now against the inadequate
salaries paid to civil service employes
in the light of the high prices of food.
Action by Two Congresses.
These steps were taken in the Thirtyeighth
and Thirty-ninth Congresses,
rhe sum of $410,000 was given to the
Secretary of the Treasury by special
paragraphs in appropriation bills. The
10 per cent horizontal raise was grantid
by a special and separate act of Congress,
approved February 2S, 1*67, and
ivas effective for one year.
Will there be any legislation for the
benefit of government clerks in the cornng
session? There seems to be no reason
why there cannot be. and every reason
why there can and should be. f'robiblv
never before in history have the
ivil service employes of any government
>een so well organized and so ably represented
before the committees which
lave the subject in hand. There is a
nass of data before the appropriations
committee, the labor committee and the
til tending to show that civil war salaries
are still being paid and that the cost
>f living is mounting upward every day.
No Evidence of Hearings.
In the case of the two odd legislative
>rovisions to meet the cost of living in
1S6G and 1867 there is no evidence of
tearings before the committees; nothing
nit a common understanding that the
salaries were inadequate and that there
vas a special condition to be met. Tolay,
probably, there would be an attempt
o make a more scientific adjustment
han is seen in either of the two provisions
mentioned, but present-day legisators
would do well to study the Concessional
Globe for the Thirty-eighth
md Thirty-ninth Congresses to see how
;asily such legislation passed.
A study of the debate in both Senate
itirt House shows a striking lack of
reference specifically to the cost of living;
only twice is this ugly monster
'ailed by name. Rut running through it
ill there is a distinct undercurrent of
in understanding that the years after
he war found enormous prices and a
lepreciated currency. There were, howuver.
one or two references to the inibility
of government clerks to live
m their salaries owing to prevailing
trices, so that students r>f the question
need not fear there is nothing definite
>n which to base their present day
arguments for higher pay.
Had Garfield's Support.
The bill was prepared after the matter
had been talked of in the cloakrooms
of the House. There does not
seem to be any record of a written report
on the measure, and the first men
uon 01 u in me wiooe is cue paragraph
relating: that Representative Thaddeus
Stevens introduced the bill December
II. 1866.
Representative Garfield, afterward
President, presented a favorable report?verbally?January
3, 1X67, and
iried to take \t up for discussion January
6. but Representative Washburne
Illinois objected. Three days later
Representative Garfield got the floor
md explained tfie necessity for the
ueasure. His main reason was: "The
ixtravagant cost of living here arid
:he depreciation of the currency have
>o reduced the purchasing power of
:he money they (government clerks)
receive as to make it scarcely possible
Lo live within their salaries."
In the discussion which followed
:here were several references to the
strange act of the previous year, wherer>y
$410,000 had been given t<> the Sec etarv
of the Treasury to distribute
recording to his own views as to the
lecessities among his own clerks. No
>ther department clerks were thus
peneflted, and, according to some of
he members of tiie House, and also of
he Senate, there was a howl at the
:ime that this money was distributed
tlong purely political grounds.
The t>ig question then was the esirarigemerit
between President Johnson
ind liis Congress, and the departmental
politics were tinged with this murky
political trouble. A member of the
House named Schenck took occasion
in the January 9 debate to lambaste
what he called the "bread-and-butter
pa rty."
This was made up, he said, of the
'creatures who had crawled into office"
i) the preceding year or two, and supported
the President as against Congress.
Politics in Departments.
There was an organization then known
is "The Johnson Departmental Club."
.vhose main object seemed to be to come
>ut strongly in the public prints with
praise and acclaim for President Johnson,
jut with epithets and stern accusations
Against Congress. They belonged to the
"bread-and-butter party," sain schenck,
because they got their appointments from
ihe President or his cabinet, and would
take any political turn to keep their jobs.
The debate was enlivened by accusation
and recriminations along this linebut
nowhere in the entire debate can
there be found any of the impassioned
pleas for economy at the expense of the
government clerk which have featured
latter-day attempts to better the workers'
condition. Nor did any self-constituted
watchdog of the Treasury growl.
There was a question or two raised as
to whether "female clerks" should be
granted the 20 per cent, and eventually
answered in the affirmative, but a surprising
lack of demagoguery?and what
a chance there was! The inference is
that the Thirty-ninth Congress knew exactly
what the situation was and feared
only that the raise would not be broad
enough.
The matter went to the Senate in February,
and at a night session. February
11. was presented for discussion.
This debate is also remarkable for the
fact that the Senate made scarcely any
mention of the necessity for the rais ,
devoting itself almost exclusively to
discussion of various amendments offered
to alter the bill in several s.nall
particulars.
Need Taken for Granted.
Kvidently the need for the raise was
taken for granted and by a strict attention
to the business before them, the
senators IM Mt have to suffer through
i
I
; [M
X
\ v \ ITVVAS'
\ ONLY t DlfEAl
REAL I'
i I
v ^
i
: oratorical intended for home i
j consumption. There was no exploiting
j or tne government worKer; mere was
no attack upon the man who wanted "
to get them a raise in pay: no appeal
to the country at large to save the
; Treasury from such a vast ' steal." The
j heated terms which are sometimes
| used in debates of today when increases
j are concerned evidently were not in
vented on those days. i
j The longest portion of the debate was J
' ! in an effort to include certain workers I .
| at the arsenal. There was also an in- |
dignant outburst from one senator be!
cause the bill, by its wording, cut out
j certain employes whose jobs were in
I Georgetown. This was remedied, however.
The Senate passed the bill without a
i great amount of discussion, and after
the usual conferences it was signed bv
the President February 28, 18C7. It provided
a 20 per cent increase to all civil \
service employes in Washington, beginning
at. those first under down
to "lamplighters under the commission- j
er of public buildings."
FAVORS SALARY INCREASES j;
! Louis F. Post Believes Government
Employes Need More Money. '
Increases in the salaries of govern- . 1
merit employes is strop riy favored l.y
i Louis F. Post, assistant sc-cretary of !<
the Department of Labor. Mr. Post f1
gave it as his personal opinion that the :
employes needed an increase.
He said be favored the horizontal in- j
crease up to a certain amount. "The j
high cost of living has hit the $1,500 man j
just as much as the $1,000 man," he ] 1
said, "and some provision should be ! 1
made for him to take care of it. Hut <
the $4,000 man has a leeway and can j)
take care of any increase in the cost of j
living "
PETITIONS WILL BE SOUGHT.
; i
Federal Employes' Committee Would 1
: Have Wage Appeals Go to Congress.
I Efforts probably will be made by the; j
. ! legislative committee of the Federal : <
?i Employes* I'nion to have a number of j
.'petitions sent to Fortress from all t
' | parts, of the country and in favor of in- t
j creased salaries for government em- i '
1! ployeK. | .
i A. H. N'owrnv>r.cli;iirinan of the new- i ]
1 Iv organized legislative committee of i
; the union, said that the matter of send-! ,
; j ing out the petition had been talked j
> over, but no decision had been reached. ! <
' i The matter, he continued, may be set- ]
1 ! tied at a meeting of the committee to
; be held next week at a time not yet : y
fixed.
He expressed the belief that 100,000 ]
! signatures could be obtained on su'di i
petitions bv January 1.
RAILWAY WORK DELAYED. '
Completion of Government Line in j
Alaska Not Expected Before 1920. j'
SEWARD, Alaska. November 2S.? i\
The government railroad between j '
Seward and Fairbanks will not be com- i j
. pleted before 1920 or 1921, instead of j 1
191*. as has been previously announced, ' 1
i i according to :i stalcinerit made public'
| today by Capt. Frederick Mears, mem- '
i ber of tbe Alaska railway commission, j
It also was stated that the part of the
i system along Turnagain Arm. between |
i Seward and Anchorage, would not be
ready for operation until 191S, instead
[ j of bv November 19/7. as originally]
i planned.
Capt. Mears said that construction j
, work had been heavier and slower than j
i ' expected and that supplies had been
; | more difficult to obtain than eontem|
plated. Instead of 2.000 men at work n
j on the Turnagain, Arm division, as h
. ! planned by the engineering commist
slon. he said, there were less than 1,000.
i Capt. Mears sailed today for Seattle
1 en route to Washington, where he will
1 report on conditions here. n
? __ r
r
Conservation '
of Paper
Every citizen is called upon to see I
that not a pound of paper is wasted.
Demand from every clerk that any >
unnecessary wrapping of packages v
Do dispensed with. e|
If you have no further use for to- !
i day's newspaper save it for the v
school children's playground fund. IJ
Call Main 6036 and ask for the 1
nearest public school to your home h
and the old papers will be sent for. t
*
iSsuspif
FOOD MEN OF PLOT
Mr. Clark Believes Conspiracy
Exists to Boost Price of
Necessities.
DOUBTFUL ABOUT EMBARGO
"I believe there is a criminal conspiracy
to raise the price of certain
articles of food," said Speaker Champ
'lark, who returned to the city today.
I do not refer to those staples which
lave been affected by climatic condi
lions, but to others, such as egg's and
putter. While T have not examined the
rimina! statutes in their bearing upon
he subject, it would seem that there
>ught to be some way to reach the
onspiracy through the law.
"In olden times, in England, the man
.vho conspired to boost food prices was
-ailed a 'regrater,' and the people did
lot bother to appeal to the law. but
ed the offender around to the blacksmith
shop and nailed his ears to the
loor.
Doubts if Embargo Can Pass.
"I doubt whether an embargo bill can
>ass Congress. At best, an embargo
vould be but a partial solution of the
problem of high cost of living, because
?o many elements enter into it. To
ny mind, the main cause of the in;rease
is the fact that such a large
part <>r the population is moving into
he cities.
"The first census of the I'nited States
showed that 5 per cent of the population
resided in towns. The last census
showed that 46 per cent of the people
lived in incorporated towns of more
:han 2.500 population. Counting in the
smaller towns and villages, the urban
population runs up to 65 per cent. Of
ourse. in the small towns some of the
people have gardens and raise poultry.
"That is the first cause of the cost of
ligh living. Another contributing reason
is that there was a drought in the
Peart of the Mississippi valley this
/ear. following a flood last year, which
succeeded a drought the year before,
so there were three short crops, hand
unning.
"The wheat crop this year was just
lbout what the people of the United
States usually consume, so there was
10 real surplus of wheat. Europeans
lo not use corn meal to any extent. If
we had had a first class corn crop,
vhich we did not have, we could use
1 find shin our wheat abroad.
While wheat is selling for $1.72, corn
brings a dollar a bushel, which is the
Highest price since 18f>f?. when there
ivas a universal drought. Eggs and
yutter are objects of speculative manipulation
and the practices ought to
ye reached through the law.*
"Congress ought to pass a law prolibiting
the interstate shipment of
alves. The slaughter of calves is largev
responsible for the high cost of beef.
Cverv state legislature ought to prohibit
he sale of veal within the state; it isn't
troper food, anyway.
"I intend to urge the passage at this
ession of Congress of the Hamilton bill,
trohibiting the interstate shipment of
eal, and propose to write to the Govrnor
of Missouri asking him to recomnend
that the legislature prohibit the
illing of calves in Missouri."
Chairman Fitzgerald Determined.
Chairman Fitzgerald of the House comnittee
on appropriations is not disnayed
by the opposition to his embargo
iroject. but is going ahead with his plan
o bring the subject up as soon as Confess
convenes.
In a statement given to the press. Mr.
Mtzgerald said:: i
"The light for an embargo has not1
et begun. It will commence in earnest
vhen Congress convenes. The more the |
luestion is discussed the greater sup- j
tort it will have. 1 have been Hooded
irith letters of approval from every
tart of the country. From the casual
nvestigations which have been possitle
I am inclined to believe that before
he session, which begins Monday next.
/?->
*- _ ^
N
ends, that the question of prices will
have been subordinated to the discussion
of adequate supply of foodstuffs.
"Among: the communications sent tc
me is the "following: excerpt in reply tc
an order from a wholesale grocery
house: 'Although we are packing: 120,000
cans of pork and beans, red kidney
beans, soaked lima beans and red bean?
per day, our entire output for November
and December is sold.'
' Sentiment Will Be Quickened."
"A distinguished senator is quoted as
saying that there is no support in Congress
for an embargo. There may not
| be now; but there will be as soon as
I Congress awakens to the support of the
movement has throughout the country.
{ "The innumerable investigations proposed
will accomplish nothing. The effective
remedy against existing conditions
is an embarge. I have not undertaken
to speak for the administration
in this matter, and my proposed
I action is not in any manner inimical to
I the President.
! "I am actuated by a desire to afford
; the people some relief from intolerant
(conditions and I believe that it will
j soon be apparent that the only effec:
tive remedy will be the proposed em;
bargo."
EMPEROR'S BODY LIES
! IN CHAPEL AT HOFBURG
i
I Remains of Francis Joseph Taken
at Night From Schoenbrunn
Palace.
j
| VIENNA. Monday, November 27. via
t London, November 28, 12:5.1 p.m.?The
{ removal of the body of the late Em'
peror Francis .Joseph from the Schoen!
hrunn palace to the Hofburg chapel toJ
night was a most impressive spectacle,
i Tens of thousands of pjitient spectators,
unmindful of the inclemency of
r the weather, stood in the cold damp!
ness and tilled the windows at every
J vantage point as the cortege passed
through lhe streets, its way lighted by
j flickering torches.
! The strange procession, patterned
j after the old Spanish examples, left
J the palace a little after 10 o'clock, and
i reached the chapel, after passing
i through two of Vienna's busiest thor'
oughfares. shortly before midnight. It
| moved between two lines, comprising
j thousand< of infantry, preceded by a
f score of equerries with lanterns, whose
j flames were hard to keep alive in the
gusts of wind sweeping over the wet
: pavement.
1 All the heads in the silent crowd were
[ bared as the procession, its center the
hearse bearing th?* body and drawn by
! eight black horses, passed by. So si!
lent was the attendant populace that
| the noise of the wheels was the only
'sound to be heard. Behind the prooesI
sion the crowd melted into the night.
' At the Hofhurg the procession ent
tered the main gate and disappeared
within the gloomy courts of the ancient
palace, dissolving as silently as
it had passed through the streets,
while the coffin was borne into the
</?ipel. where it will be exposed to (he
public view Tuesday. Wednesday and
j Thursday.
NO SCARCITY CF WORK.
But Pittsburgh Reports Increase in
Charity Cases, Due to Drink.
PITTSBURGH. Pa., November 28.?
Acute poverty due to inability to obtain
work disappeared from Pittsh
11 rirh nna VAnr n trn liilt t)l*? nrneiineoiio
condition of business in this district
lias resulted in a decided increase in
the number of charity cases resulting
from the use of alcoholic drinks and
the desertion of families, according to
the annual report of the Associated
Charities just made public.
"There seems to be a relation between
the great demand for labor and the in|
crease in drinking in that the worker
feels if he loses one job on account of
intemperance it will be .easy to find
another." the report says. "The association
finds that the large pay envelope
has led to family desertion in many instances;
in fact, desertion increased
very decidedly last year." I
i
TO SEND PRESENTS |i
TO D.C. SOLDIERS:
__V
Star Will Receive Christmas
Contributions for Men
on Border. I
1,500 ARE AWAY FROM HOME
Washington has about 1.500 of her
young men doing duty in four military J
camps on the Mexican border. They
are members of the District National
Guard. They are expected to be there
during the Christmas season. It will
be the tirst Christmas that many of ,
them have spent away from home. *
They are there because they felt it
their duty to enlist in the reserve
militia for the nation's defense in time
of need. *
Washington people who have been
enjoying the comforts of home during 1
the last six months while these boys
have been living in tents on the border
with prospects of raids imminent. 1
and who have been going about their J
daily work assured that the govern- <
ment will protect them; who will be
at home with loved ones for Christmas.
want to do something to bring the
Christmas spirit to these boys in
camp. 1
They want to show them that what <
the men are doing for the nation is ap- (
preciated not only by the homefolks,
but by all the people in the National
Capital. J
Every resident of the capital?rela- j
tives and friend's of these boys in camp,
and the thousands of others who know j
them only as members 01 me uisirici ?
citizen soldiery, facing dangers in the <
service of their country?is going to (
have an opportunity to do their "bit" .
that the Christmas day may be happier '
for the soldier boys, and may bring to ?
them in camp a realization of hearts in <
the home city that feel for them. j
To Send Presents to the Soldiers. 1
<
Some of these boys may get boxes
from home and some of them may not.
They would appreciate Christmas presents
from the people of Washington, J
and it will cheer them up a great deal ,
in their outdoor homes Christmas day <
to have a distribution of presents, the j
offering of the whole of Washington, to
make them happj'. Christmas day these 1
, troops will have been in the field for
more than six months. i
I The Star will receive contributions 1
to be used in purchasing presents for
these District coldiers. of whom there 1
( are, approximately, 1,500, divided into <
ti four camps on the border. '
, j The 3d Infantry, approximately a <
[ thousand men,- arid Troop A, cavalry, t
' i about eighty, are at Camp Wilson, San f
; I Antonio. Tex. The Signal Corps com_
' pany, about a hundred men, is at No- s
gales; Battery A. Field Artillery, about <
130 men, is at El Paso, Tex., and Bat- 1
tery B. * with approximately the same '<
number, is at Douglas. '
, The Star will open the National
Guard Christmas fund with a contribution
of $100. Those who contemplate
subscribing to the fund have but a few
! days to send in their contributions, '
fewer days even than the Christmas j
shoppers here to do their buying, for ,
the goods will have to be brought in
the vicinity of the camps. <
In addition to the individual sub- <
scriptions, mere may uc uuhuiouuvhs j
from benefit performances given by
such organizations as desire to con- 1
tribute to the fund to make the Dis- 1
trict boys happy on Christmas day.
Only contributions of money can be
received* as it will not be possible at \
I this time to send boxes of goods from *
Washington there. The money will be
telegraphed in time for the officers of ,
the camps to purchase the necessary ,
i articles. The distribution of the pres;
ents will be entirely in the hands of; ?
i the officers, who have promised to co-op- j ;
| erate in the Christmas movement in- '
! angurated by The Star.
| The suggestion for the purchase of,1
: the articles for the 3d Infantry and
j Troop A at San Antonio came from !
j Lieut. Col. Anton Stephan. 3d Infantry, j .
exchange officer at the 3d Regiment !
camp. A telegram from J. Crosby McCarthy,
The Star's staff correspondent
at San Antonio, says:
"The officers here advise the purchase
of the greater portion of the presents
here (San Antonio), as prices for stand- 1
ard articles are the same as elsewhere, r
Lieut. Col. Stephan says in some in- s
stances the prices are lower.
"The articles most desired are smok- f
ing tobacco, cigarettes, cigars, pipes,
handkerchiefs, pocket knives, tooth- t
brushes and cream, pocket mirrors and
combs, razors and blades, cold cream
in tubes, talcum powder, shaving and c
! toilet soap, bags of stout material with r
(drawing strings to hold laundry. T
(stamped envelopes and writing paper, j
[fountain pens, pencils, bath sponges, i
j towels, housewives, wallpockets. wool- a
J en bed so?'ks. pneumatic pillows, eleo- r
trie flashlights, bandanas, memoran- T
j dum books for non-commissioned ofli- v
j cers, rubber boots. n
I
I Candies Wanted by the Men.
j "Candy is wanted, but it is advised '
j that this he . bought in Washington,
las the quality (here is poor?chocolates,
j nut candies, gumdrops and chewing
j gum preferred: also all kinds of can- j
ned meats, soups and vegetables, olives,
j pickles, cakes and crackers, subscriptions
to magazines, books of all kinds.
, diaries, cameras, films, coin purses and
I wrist watches.
i "All purchases made here will be at
I lowest wholesale prices, as the mer;
chants who supply the regimental r
(exchange would be patronized."
j There are a great many things which v
the troops would like to have and p
j which would make them feel that the 0
j people of Washington are appreciating
I the good work which they are doing on tj
the border. t
But there should be plenty of to- 8,
j bacco, for on the cold nights the troops
like to sit inside their tents alongside 11
| the conical tent stoves and smoke and 'I
read, and perhaps munch a bit of v
candy.
There is little time to prepare. Con- ?
! tri but ions must come in a hurry, for P
it will have to be prorated among the c,
troops at the various camps of the
District on the border, and then the i *
. officers will have to make out lists of J
i purchases for articles that will please o
! the men. j ,
! It will be a big thing for the District ! "
boys to receive from the people of ^
Washington on t'hristmas day presents fr
that will show them that they can have *r
a Christmas in the field almost as well j
as they do at home. a
CHRISTMAS GIFT FROM !p
KAISER TO PRESIDENT |p
I h;
GENEVA, Switzerland, November 28, | ir
via London, 2:11 p.m.?Emperor Wil- j s<
liam will Fend to President Wilson as a .
Christmas present a de luxe set of i
American authors specially prepared, J
printed and bound at the royal print- I
ing works in Berlin, according to the f
Budapest newspaper, Az Est.
The German submarine Iteutschland. ?<
the newspaper says, will carry the gift cc
to the United States on her next trip s|
across the Atlantic. tl
Emperor William's Christmas gift ps
to Pope Benedict will be a Bible, mag- c<
niflcently illuminated and bound. m
*
LONDON IS BOMBED;
TWO BIG ZEPPELINS
BROUGHTTOEARTH
German Aircraft Raid British
Capital and Northern
Counties.
CREWS OF LOST CRAFT
REPORTED TO BE DEAD
Four Persons Injured in London.
But Little Damage Is Done
Elsewhere.
iy tlir Assoriated Pren*.
LOM)G\, November 2S.?One woman
ivnn killed and oixteen prrnon* were IBlured
In the Xeppelin raid. The alr*hfp?
Iropped 100 bomb*.
LONDON, November 2R.?Flying at a
STeat height, a German airplane this
norning passed over London and
Iropped six bombs on the capital, according
to an official statement issued
:his afternoon. Four persons were injured
and only slight material damage,
t is added, was caused.
Two Zeppelins which raided the
northeast coast and the. Yiorth Midland
counties during The night were brought
lown and destroyed by British airmen,
md it is understood the crews of both
lirships perished. This makes a total
>f seven German airships destroyed in
England in the present year, while six
lave been brought down in other fields
)f operation.
Two Months of Immunity.
The two months of immunity which
3reat Britain had had from hostile air
-aids led many persons to believe the
Germans would not risk any more airships
in attacks, which, whi^e causing
numerous casualties among civilians
inn aamage to private property, were said
n England to have gained a military advantage
for them.
The authorities, regarding the promotion
of London as fairly complete,
continued their work, however, with
he object of rendering other parts
)f the country safe. The success of
he air patrols this morning has given the
greatest satisfaction here.
Official reports do not say how many
lirships crossed the coast, but apparently
they were bombarded so severely
ay anti-aircraft guns, as well as being
ittacked by airplanes, that they were
muble to do much damage.
Lights Are Turned Out.
Lights were turned out in all the
towns in the districts affected as soon
reports of the approach of airships
were announced, and the commanders
>f the Zeppelins apparently had difficulty
in locating themselves. A number
of bombs were dropped, although
io reports of damage in any towns
lave been received thus far.
One Zeppelin discharged her cargo of
jxplosives in Yorkshire and Durham.
She was attacked by a single airplane
ind fell in flames off the Durham coast.
Another got as far as 1 he north midand
counties and likewise dropped
jombs. She was attacked by airplanes
md guns and apparently damaged, but
ffected repairs after reaching ttie No.?
lk '-oast and started for hon e :it high
;peed and at a high altitude. Naval air>lanes
were awaiting her. and. with the
lid of an armed trawler, brought her
lown be:ore she had gone many miles.
tireat crowds attracted to the sea oast
>v the filing, watched the Zeppelins as
hey descended in flames.
Airship Bursts Into Flames.
The Zeppelin brought down on the
Durham coast was first seen at midlight.
It immediately was located by
searchlights and soon a shell from the
uui-aircraft guns hit her. She burst
nto flames and fell into the water in
wo pieces.
A correspondent on the northeast
oast says the Zeppelin which apiroaehed
from a southerly direction
cas immediately picked up by searchight
and subjected to a severe bomlardment
by anti-aircraft suns and
irplanes. Within a few minutes her
lose dipped and she burst into llanies.
'he airship slowly fell to the sea. th?*
chole district being brilliantly illumilated
by the tlarc.
WOMEN OF THE CITY MAY
PLAN HIGH COST ACTION
Embargoes on Foodstuffs to Be Discussed
at Meeting of District
Federation of Clubs Tonight.
Concerted action against the high
ost of living in Washington by the
vomen of the city probably will be
lanned at a meeting of the District
<f Columbia Federation of Women's
'lubs at the New Ebbitt at 8 o'clock
his evening, according to Mrs. J. Edon
Briggs. chairman of the home ecoomics
department of the federation,
'his action probably will be in line
rith the efforts of the housekeepers
f New York and Philadelphia, who
laced home embargoes upon certain
ommodities for which exorbitant prices
ere charged.
The matter first was brought up unfficially
before the association several
ays ago and referred to Mrs. Briggs.
he will be unable to attend this evenig's
meeting, but the subject is to be
ltroduced for discussion by Miss Ellen
[arshall Rugg of the federation and
Iso connected with the Housekeepers'
lliance of Washington.
Mrs. Briggs this morning spoke emhatieally
in favor of establishing emargoes
against unnecessarily highriced
articles.
"It is practically the only means we
ave of reducing the high cost of livig,"
she said. "We should like to take
>me steps toward reducing the price
f turkeys before Thanksgiving, but I
3ubt if we have sufficient time."
Raised $134,965 for "Special."
ALBANY. N. Y., November 118.?Momars
of the national Hughes woman's
mimittee, who financed the "Hughes
?ecial" train for its trip throughout
le country during the recent camlign,
raised $134,965 for expenses, ac>rding
to the election expense state*
ent.filed with the secretary of state.
?
