over town ym bew -e CAUS
owing. The public se it; TH EY READ'
the vertiser knows it; OUR ADS APU
admit it. It has the lrges cbiltm DID *H
eve ejoyed by a nig wspper -hR
in Washington -.
NO. 3693. WEKU.CLOUDT. WASHINGTON, D. . TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 28, 1916. ONE CENT
PUBLIC WARNED
AGAINST BUYING
FOREIGN NOTES
Federal Board Hits at British
Attempt to Unload Paper
in This Country.
-Me b.aed idee..m it. tr.ese.
Its dm to smtion the memher
banks that it deem met regard It i0
the latereat Of the eamatry at this
dma that they inveast in fereign
trsosay buil of this emereser."
Statmmet by Pederal Reserve
BmArd,
The Federal Reserve Board yesterday
' sueda formal statement warning banks
and the public against the purchase of
short-term foreign notes.
Although no specific mention is made
of British treasury notes, the statement
is clearly aimed at them because they are
the only short-term foreign obligations
of which any considerable quantity was
to be placed upon this market.
It has been reliably reported that the
British government, having once Induced
the Federal Reserve banks to enter upon
the practice of discounting these notes.
planned to place as much as ,U1.0,000,000
of them in this country. Yesterday's
tateent by the Federal Reserve Board
was issuIt:d to clear up doubts regarding
a pr-vious statement as to whether it
A;s intended to apply to British treasury
-otes. It will be a severe blow to the
nancters, who were planning to Boat
I hese loans in the United States. The
i:Iement says in part:
i)vanes Pesitien Clearly.
ov wo contradictory reports which
1ared in the press regarding its
' ol. toward the purchasihg by banks
ib. country of treasury bills. of for
et .n governments, the board deems It a
-!tI to deflne its position clearly.
-In making this statement the board
to disclaim any intention of dis
*issing the finances of reflecting upon
si nnancial stability of any nation, but
s shes It understood that it seeks to deal
only with general principle. which afect
al alike
"The board does not share the view
frequently exploited of late that further
",'portations of large amounts of gold
ofst of necessity prove a source of dan
ger or disturbance to this country.
"That danger, the board believes, will
7."s only in case the indowing gold
-hiould remain uncontrolled and be per
mitted to become the basis of undesira
loan expansions and of inflation.
Urge ixtresse Cautie.
"There are means, however, of can
trolling accessions of gold by proper
I and voluntary co-operation of the beaks,
oir it need be, by legislative enactm=i.L
"The hoard believes that at thid time
lanks should proceed with much caution
im, siking up their funds in long term
'bligations or in investments, which are
short term in form or name, but which.
either by contract or through force of
i'rmnstances, may In the aggregate
hive to he renewed until normal con
dhtinos return.
--If our banking institutions have to
heanse foreign securities are
- rn. rAster than they can he absorbed
inv esIors--that it. their despositors
m would be introdiuced into the
j I-. which. if not kept under con
* d tend toward instability, ana
.r injury to the economic develop
o "r this ountry."
IHIUR DAY IMPOSSIBLE,
F1 RAILWAY EXPERTS
.10Be Put Into Effect Under Pres
I bor Conditions. They Say.
Ie ernstienal News Service.)
V. tN. .-Rilays% officials
t.as testt:ed that it would
b, i1o pit into operation an
, for switchmen, under
- tbor conditions.
Tx ,-oa nard at the Chamber of Com
N- s fore the Hoard of Arbitration
h d ito settle the controversy be
-... members of the Switchmen's
I of North America and thirteen
W. I. Sullhvat. Ncw York Central
ions ster at Cleveland, deelaredi that
a hasic day would increase little, if any,
,h.. eficiency of the system. le said the
majority of accidents in yards are not
ine to overwork but to the recklessness
-f the- switchmen.
The witness declared the operation or
the eizht-hour day would require an ad
iional force of men and engines which
: would be Impossible to obtain. H. P.
ti,, trainmaster for the Chicago. Rock
.inn. and 1e:e Railroad. at Chicago,
d'elared the short.r work day for switch
'en would result In an actual loss of
efficiency.
The hearing will be continued tomorrow
morning.
CHICAGO 3OYCOTTB EGGS.
Chicago, Nov. 2.-A three-ply call for
s boycott on eggs In an effort to bring
down the price, which now is around 50
cents a dosen, was the result today of
raids by city health offneers on ware
houses where they found hundreds'-of
iens of eggs in storage.
Dr. John Dill Robertson, city health
-ommissioner, issued an appeal to the
roublic to eat no more eggs then absolute
15 necessary In order to leave as many
apossible for the sick.
- The Chicago Political E!quality League
urd the directors of the Municipal Tu
'arculosis Sanitarium made similar
nlens.
The boycott Is asked until January 21,
when eggs now in storage must he put
,ut.
LUlrE MAY' HAVE HIT U-U0AT.
New York. Nov. 2L.-The White Star
ine'r 1.Apland, which arrived today. from
I verpool. reported hitting a submerged
>bstacle pff Nantucket that may have
,ien either a submerged derelict or a
submarine.
Ait the time. the 1.a and was speeding
*, brough the darkness with all her lights
it to avoi any hostile "U"~ boats that
niight he in the vicinity. The colision
rink place early yesterday.
The shock of the Impact was so great
lhat nearly all the sixty-one peseengers
'a board were awakend b.y a
Stmtevid Boycott
Of Eggs i New York
(By Intersatlemal NewS sries.)
New York. Now. 27.-Plas for a
State-wide boycott of egg were
perfected today.
Cornelius F. Burna, mayor of
Troy and chairman of the confer
ence of mayors of New York State.
tonight sent a message to all the
executives in the cities of the first
and second class, urging that a
boycott be declared.
At a special meeting of the
Housewives' League here tonight.
a demand was made for a Congres
sional Investigation of the entire
food situation.
STOP GOLD COINSI
Quit Minting to Work on
Small Silver Specie.
(By the Internatieal Newn Service.)
New York. Nov. 2.-Minting of gold
coins In the United States was officially
suspended today until a sufficient supply
of small silver specie Is available to sup
ply the current demand.
This announcement was made just after
the disbanding of a conference of mint
directors which has been considering a
means of relieving the situation.
Meanwhile, every mint In the country
is working twenty-four hours a day, ex
clusively on small silver coins. The
Bureau of Engraving at Washington Is,
turning out more than a million dollar
bills a day to take the place of silver
dollars. and five and ten dollar wrtificates
are beui issued In lieu of gold coins.
This leaves the mint facilities free to
work on silver.
"Prosperity is here-most of us know
that-but no one feels it more keenly than
the men who work In the mints," an
official said today. ".But in their case.
the effect is felt because they are over
worked.
"It is the first time In my recollection
that coinage of gold has been suspended
so that more silver coins could be made.
Dimes, quarters and half dollars are In
great demand. This is because the pres
ent prosperous conditions are filtering
through to the very smallest man. The
wage worker Is drawing more money
than ever, and he is spending more. Na
turally . he spe'nds dimes, quarters and;
half dollars for the smaller wants that
formerly went unsatisfied. That Is what
is causing the great shortage of small
coins."
It had been arranged to issue quarters
and half dollars of a new design just
before Christmas this year, but to expe
dite coinage the old design will be con
tinued In use.
U. S. DYESTUITS TRADE
NO LONGER DEPENDENT
Half of Deutschland's First Cargo Still
Unsold, Says American Expert.
illy the Internatieaal News Service.)
liridg.port. Conn.. Nov. 7--Ameri-n
has vast off its dependency tpon Ger
many for dyestuffs. with the res"lt that
ilf the Deutschland's first *onsignment:
.-ti lies unsold in Daltinore aarehouses.
; -rdina to an expert ,onn'cted with
":le or the largest i.te manufacturing
c-ne rne In the country.
With the expiration of some German
itents several months go,. according to,
this authority. American concerns had
free rein in experimenting, and a has
ror-duct as good as that for which Amer
lea his been dependent on Germany. is
now being sold for S1GO a pound. The
stuff brought over by the Deutschland on
its tiret trip was selling for $4.@ a pound
when a market could be obtained.
Gossip among dyemakers. says this au
thority. Is that many New York concerns
are huing alleged German dyes. hearing
(Gernan lettering. and sold as part of.
the Deutsehland's cargo. which never
were out of America.
IERS. SANGER SEEKS NEW JUDGE
New York. Nov. i.--Marguerite Sangar.
birth control exponent, who has twice
been arrested for operating a clinic, to
day applied for a writ restraining the
Court of Sp)ecial Sesioas from trying her
on a pending case. She alleged that Jus
tice McInerney wvas prejudiced against
herself and her cause, and that she could
not get a fair trial.
Justice McInerney admitted he was
prejudiced against birth control, but de
nied any animosity to Mrs. Sanger.
"Abraham Lincoln never could have
been born If Mrs. Sanger had her way."
commented the judge.
NORWAY TO ENTER TRADE WAR
New York, Nov. 27.-Norway has under
construction In American and Norwegian
ship yards 20 ships of various sizes.-and
after the war will make a strong bid for
world shipping, according to Christopher
Hamgrzig. a member of the Norwegian
firm of Hammerzig & Johnson, who ar
rived here today aboard the Frederick
Norwegian liners. he said, would sail
the seven seas, and a line will be inau-j
gurated between San Francisco and the
Orient and the west coast of South
America.
ROION TO BOYCOTT 006O.
Boeton, Nov. 2.-Several organisations
in Boston joined a movement in this
city today to follow the example of New
York and wage a boycott on egg dealers.
There are In cold storage in this city
today 4,302.760 dosen of eggs,
One million pounds of poultry for
Thanksgiving arrived here today, but
despite this the food speculators are de
manding a, record price for turkeys.
NEWPORT LEADER SUE.
New York. Nov. 2.--The mital ship
of the Henry Plerrepont Perry. whose.
marriage in IfS was an elaborate soa
event, hit the rocks today whem Mrs.
Perry brought suit for dIvorce and the
custody of their two small sons.
She named "an unknown woman'' as
corespondent and the Wellington Hotei as
the place.
The Perry. have been leaders in New
port society circles for years.
U.So SHIP WAITS
FOR SUBMARINES
Battleship Connecticut Of
New Jersey Highlands.
(my the latereatienal News Servise.)
New York. Nov. 27-The battleship
Connecticut is anchored tonight off the
New Jersey Highlands, about four miles
east of the Navesink Ughthouse.
No information as to the reason for the
vessel being held In this vicinity is forth
coming. At Brooklyn Navy Yard it
was said any order to the Connecticut
has been transmitted direct from Wash
ington.
The Connecticut was one of the fleet
of Dreadnoughts sailing from here to
day for target practice at sea. There Is
considerable conjecture over the Con
necticut being left behind.
It In significant that the sudden change
In orders to the Connecticut Is timed
with the reported approach to American
waters of the German U-boat flotilla.
It is pointed out that with the sailing
of the Atlantic Fleet for Southern waters
no battleships of the Dreadnought class
would be left in this vicinity.
Four passenger vessels and nine
freighters, flying the flags of the allies,
reached port today without having
sighted any of the German U-boat
flotilla believed to be off these shores.
All reported receiving the wireless warn
ing sent out by the British from their
station at Hamilton, Bermuda. and
stated that extra look-outs were im
mediately posted and all lights carefully
blanketed.
Scores of British cruisers, doing patrol
duty beyond the three-mile limit, are
waiting for submarines, and some of the
passengers who arrived today said they
saw several cruisers within twenty-five
miles of Sandy Hook.
Reports were made to the British and
Italian consulate by the masters of the
Duca D'Acosta. the Napoli, the Pan
nonia, the Bermudian, Lapland, and sev
eral freight steamers that no U-boats
had been sighted.
HORSE INJURES CADET;
PLUNGES INTO RANKS
Runaway Causes Severe Injury to
Richard McCartney, 17 Years Old.
A frightened horse hauling a wagon
ran away and plunged Into I company of
Western High School cadets on I street,
near Thirty-fourth street northwest.
about 3 o'clock yesterday afternoon.
Richard McCartney. 17 years old, a cadtt.
was caught between the tongue anld whif
tIe-tree of the wagon. ils skull was
fractur d. his shoulder broken and he
su1ffer a slight concussion of the brain.
The adets were at drill when the horse
,wned by Robert Bonar, '9 EIl'-venth
ltiet northwest bore down upon them.
Frank Walker. 113 New .Ier.sey arenue,
the negro (river. was thrown from the
wo un aind slightly hurt. Th horse ran
Int, :, tree-hox, overturning and wreck
ing the wagon.
Nlotart ney. wio lives at 31"3 Du mha,, r
ttn avenue no'th1west. was piked ttp ant
rriot t" 'Genrgetown 'niversfty lio
pita !n the automobile of William Bailfcy.
:1n eTnplome of the District Electrical D)
partment. lr. J. P. Madigan worked
,,er Him an hour before the pressure on
1th brain wns relieved.
Tih boy was resting well last night, but
he proibab1ly will he in the hospital a
%.ek ,r more.
WATSON ON TRIAL FOR
MAILINi OBSCENE DATA
Defense Says Matter Was Taken from
Works on Catholic Theology.
i ny the I ternstiesal News Service.)
Auvusta. ta.. Nov. 3.-Thomas E. Wat
so,. qt the beginning of his trial in
Utited States Court here today on the
charge of sending obscene matter through
the malls, put upon the government the
burden of proof that he was responsible
for the mailing. He also stated that he
wss "merely president" of the corpora
Iot, which published the magazines con
taiiig the articles cited.
The articles cited were tised In connec
tion with attacks on the Roman Cath
,If (hurch, and the publisher claimed
at his previous trial certain phrases men
tionetd in the Indictment were taken from
trestises dealing with the doctrine of
that -hurch which had gone through the
omuis tnt uiestioned.
The jury was quickly secured, but the
progress of the trial was delayed by tech
nien araumetnts and by long examination
of witnesses by whom the government
sotught to show Watson was responsible
for mailing the articles. -
Watson, stated that the Jeffersonian
Publishing Company is a corporation and
has other officers as well as stockhold
ers. This company, he continued, pub
lishes the Jeffersonian. a weekly maga
tine. and Watson's magazine, a month
ly. in which were contained the alleged
articles.
Part of the alleged obscene matter Is
in Latin. and the defense claimed it was
taken from works on Roman Catholic
theology.
URGES 8-HOUR LAW FIGHT.
Baltimore. Md., Nov. 27.-Declaring that
the branch of organized labor which has
attained the eight-hour day should add
Its strength to the branch which now
ieeks it, Samuel Gompers, president of
the American Federation of Labor, greet
sd the convention of the Department of
Building Trades, which opened here to
lay.
Other speakers were former aitorney
general of Maryland. Isaac Lobe Strans'
William F. Broening, Stat's attorney.
mnd N. E.7 Roose, of the Brotherhood of
Railway Trainmen.
XAMRI2 RISK RATES DROP.
New York. Nov. 27.-Despite the appre
asesion aroused over the report of threat
mned U-boat activity near the American
shore, annotscement was made today of
a drop of 'marine Insurance rates.
Local underwriters quoted a decrease of
sne-half of I per cent. Shipments to fag
land are being negotiated at 2 l- per
sent; to Ireland and the east coast, 6 per
3ent. Mediterraneem ratee have beem w
Base fesa4 t er em -
Legi F. Pet Urge.
Herimetal Pay Raise
Assistant Secegtary of Labor
L-us F. Post yosterday came out
iaarety for a horisontal icrese
of pay for all governent e
ployes. He said:
"I am strongly in favor of a
horisontal InCrease In the salaries
of all government clerks." said
Mr. Post. "The higher cost of
living affects the t2,000-a-year man I
as much as it does the 00 clerk,
and I believe that salaries should 1
be Increased to enable the clerks
to live decently. That is, there
should be a horlsontal, rather than
a pro-ratas Inerease.' I4
$3MINIMUM PAY
CAMPAIGN PIVOT
Government Clerks to Center
Efforts on Nolan Measure.
President H. M. McLarin, of the Fed
eral Ehmployes' Union. Informed The
Washington Herald that the organiza
tion will center its work in the short ses
satom of Congres* on having the Nolan 33
a-day minimum wage bill enacted into
law.
The American Federation of Labor reeo
lution urging relief of all government
workers, will be given prominence, but,
the main effort will be concentrated on
the Nolan hill. which is some stages
bearer enactment than aiy other.
A blanket increase of 32(0 for all em
ployes receiving less than $2,000 a year
will be advocated and every argument
possible offered for its passage before the
short session adjourns.
It was officially announced that 10.000
petitions, in etreulation throughout the
country, favor an increase for Federal
employes. Janu... I has been fixed as
the date for h. resentation of these pe
titions to Presidient Wilnon. They are
being circulated by branches of the Fed
eral Employes' Union throughout the
country.
That the movement for increased sal
ilrs is not conined to those who are
organized is evidened by the followingl!
letters from a government employe not
effillated with any of the organizations
workin-r for improved condition in wages
and ratings.
"'Thank i;od for a paper that will speak
for the poor people' I would like to
be a unikn iemtber. but I can't pay 33
lents a moonta. It don't seem much. but
it m.s's a wMole lot to me and a lot
of others who Are Wetting small salaries.
Vrl NT1, ED ON PAGM TWO.
| Telegraph Tips |
New York. Nov. -.-The Title Guarantee
ad Trst ' oAiny, of Brooklyn, was
t;n .e a imin i essions today for
,a w - - 'a .. i , itelon of the penal
code. The company accepted a fee of i;
lot dr, -al estate bill of sale
1hohill tih in stand against an appeal
11 will i ark an poch in legal practice.
New York, Nov. !-,.-Three men held
ul, .\ ' : .- ' . ' .ueciv In his jewelry
stor'I topla . enii tied his show case of
31.-o0 worth of gems. The street outsIde
was throngdt th people, ar.d three de
tectives and six patrolmen were within a
hundred feet of the store.
Bridgeport. .-on-. Nov. V.-The subma
rine N-4. built for the United States
Navy. wis sic-$mfully launched today
ni the plat f ih- lake Torpedo Boat
Company.
Copenhagen. N-v. 7--1'zir Nicholas of
flussia. has arriv- :,t tiv on his way
to the Itomnan fonti ier to confer w Ith
King ird niand. says a Sofia dispatch
to the \'osische Zeitung, of Berlin. to
day,
Clyde, Ohi.. No. 7.--Ruth Law devel
oped th. nwrve which made her the
.. m.,1 -oist darin:. aviatrix by riding
steers bareback, according to her father,
F. it. iaw, proprietor of the Way Side
uin Hotel here.
New York. No,.. 11.-The Scandinaviani
American liner Frederick VIII arrived
u. c toiny *lith an unusually- large pas
ren-ier list. 1,(,7 comirg over from Stock
holm. Coming inio the harbor, the vessel
met the Atlantic ileet putting to sea, and
dipped her colors to the gray fighters
while the passengers cheered.
Zion City, Ill.. Nov. 2.-"All doctors,
should be sent to the penitentiary an.]
all tobacco users are dirty pups," Wilbur
Glenn Voliva. successor to "Prophet"
Dowle, told his congregation in the course
of an unusually mild sermon.
Bloomington. III., Nov. 27.-Fear that.
tihe foot and molth disease, which again
is reported in Nebraska. may spread to.,
Illinois. today led to the Issuance of an,
order by the Chicago and Alton Railroad
tnat all stock cars coming from the West
must he disinfectea.
Joliet. Ill.. NoV. r.-Robbers smashed
windows in the stores of Rice & Larsch
nd the Johnsoni jewelry store early to
,dar sand esc'iped. with jewels valued at
35,000.
Geneva, Nov. 2.-The archives and
treasure of the Rumanian government
are being removed from Bucharest to
Jessay, according to a dispatch received
here today.
Now York, Nov. 2.-No submarine was
sighted by the Cunard liner Pannonia,
which arrived today with sixty-six pas
sengers.
RAID BY ZEPPELINS
IN NORTHRNEGLAND
(3y the Iaternatbeal 14es 'Uervtee.)
London, Nov. 2.-Zeppelina last (Mon
day) night again raided the nrtheastern
coast of England. Bonibs wore dropped.
An offcl statement made public early
this snorning sags no reports have yet
been veceived on casualties or damage,
The statement says:
"Hostile airships crossed the northeast.
erni ceast Monday night. Bomba, it asre
ported, have been dropped in several
places in the northern counties, but no I
repoarm of casualties or damage ave pet
SEE BEGINNING
OF PEAGE MOVE
ierard Has Talks with Lan
sing and Von Bernstor.
James W. Gerard, United States Am
assador to Germany, was the central
igure in a series of conferences here
esterday which strongly suggested the
Peginning of a movement for peace in
Gurope.
No official statement was obtainable,
Out in quarters vitally interested in the
utcome, a hope was expressed that a
rief breathing spell between the war
Ing factions could be arranged. With
his accomplished, it was said, the door
would be opened for a definite armistice
hat would permit the belligerent nations
o talk peace seriously.
Ever since Mr. Gerard left Berlin two:
nonths ago it has been a fixed impres-,
ion in diplomatic circles that he came
tere fully aware of the views of the
Caser on peace. The Amb=dor held
one conference with President Wilson at
lhadow Lawn. He expects to talk with,
he chief executive again during this
jiit to Washington.
The first conference yesterday was held
>etween Mr. Gerard and Secretary of
itate Lansing at the State Department.
Phe second was at the German Embassy..
where Mr. and Mrs. Gerard were the
uests of the German Ambassador. 'ount
,on Bernatorff, at luncheon. The Seere
ary of State and Mrs. Lansing were also
mong the guests. Mrs. Richard If.
7ownsend. Mr. and Mrs. George Peabody
'ustis and the Counsellor of the Em
assy, laniel von Heinhausen. complet
d the small but distinguished company.
The Secretary of State and Mrs. Ian
ing entertained at dinner last night in
onor of Ambassador and Mrs. Gerard,
nd the American Ambassador to Spain
nd Mrs. Joseph Willard.
When asked if the Pu-tion of peace
ad been raised during the conference,
0r. Lansing deciiuedl to answer.
He did assert with emPhasis. however4
hat there was nothing sufficiently seri-,
ous in the submarine issue between the
Jnited States and Germany to have made
he conference necessary.
NEST VA. REPUBLICANS
FAIL TO PROVE FRAUD
ktate Senate Refuses to Pass Bill Pro
viding for Probe of Charges.
By the Internatieasl Miews 5.ervicep
iharleston. W. Va.. Nov. ''-.-Atternpts
af Gov. Hattleld and the outgoing Pte
ublicaun administration to prove charges
of fraud in connection with th electionI
of Cornwell. Democrat. as c exeen
ave of Wert Virina. fell fi today
vhen the State senate refused to pass a
i11 : roviding for the investigation of the
harves.
At thpe same time the house committee
whi h investigatepd charges me Iy
Iptfitli and his elan that the lenprats
lad endesavored to bribe legislature men
o vot.e favorably for the incoming Ilem
crats Luring the special session called
O latf.elid in an effort to deprive the
7ove, ror-el-ct of power over State o
cers reported that they had founl no
vidence to support the charges.
Topmorrow. it is expected, the special
ession will come to :in end. and whapt
as probably been the most bitter cle,
ion fight between ienocrats and R.vpuh
Icans in West Virginia will be over.
east for the time beng.
Hatfield has marnagei to have pass i
our bhis regulating ,ower of the g
rnor to oust applointive official.
FINGER PRINTS LIKELY
TO PROVE WRL'S GUILT
day Show Alleged Shoplifter Was Ar
restd in 1915 on Similar Charge.
Pet-l U, The Wsstingtaon ersld.
New York. No. _- I- I hirty-five
romen adetecte. relprsenting about
,very larze department store iri New
(ork. Jrsey City and Newark. N. J..
tathered at police headquarters today to
ry to identify some of the $.l..o' %orth
Of mericandise taken from the a,.
nent of "Miss Elizabeth Semn
nysterious woman held on a shoplifti g
a arg. investiga tion indicaid that sne
was the same woman who w;., ar. ste I
n Janupy. ll . aftr a chfo". tlrogh
he office of the McAlpin Hotel, on a
imilar charge.
The woman arrested at that ti .e said
he was Marion Clark. a "movie,.
ress, but iater, when arraigned i, court.
aid she was Mrs. Edward A. Arnheip,
lving in the St. George Hotel "Miss
vpanlon." when arrealed. adimiti--t she
lad lived under the name of Macion
'lark in the apartment where th alieged
tolen goods were found and she had
toted fretquently she was a "movie" ae
ress.
'ote best evidence the police had to con
ieet the present prisoner with the larion~h
'lark arrested in 1915, however, were her'
inger prints. After her arrest her prints
vere taken and today they were exam
red by oexprts at headquarters. v he
hey are the same as those of the Marion
'Iark anexedl at the McAlpin.
She is apparently a woman of marked
efinement and is well educated.
Love of finery, the police say, was not
ter motive for making the alleged thefts.
Nor did she apparently seek to sell any
if the articles.
WILL PROSECUTE BAERR.
New York. Nov. 2.--Indictments of six
pig East Side bakers for conspiracy to
'alse the price of bread can be expected,
oon, it was said at the omcee of District,
attorney Swann today.
A mass of evidence, showing that bakers
ieliberately conspired to hoist the price
pf their produet, was ssid to be ready for
presentation to the grand jury.
FIaE $600000 SUITS.
Springild. Ma.,. Nov. .--John Marsh.
if Chicago. through counsel, today filed
wo suits aggregating M0aim in actions
if contract.
One suit is for pesm0 against the
louthern .New England Raflk'od Corpora
ion. The other suit is for a similar sum
against the Southern~ New Enigiand ('or
eration, the Central Versmt Railway.
me the OGand YiM annma
Hughes WE Retw
To is Ol Law Fm
(y neme..a New. . es..ie.)
LWawood, N. J.. Nov. 27.
Charles Evans Hughes will return
to private life as a member of his
old law firm.
Mr. Hughes, who Is resting herm,
today gave out the following state
ment:
"(harles E. lu::ies will resume
tie practice f law in New York
City on Janury E ie will go hack
to his old firm. ->) Rounds, Schur
man & Dwight, with toices at 96
Broadway.
"The firm's nam =will be Hughes.
Rounds, Schuriian & Dwight.
*His son. Charles E Hughes. Jr.,
will enter the firm at the same
time."
CHILD ATTACKE[
School Girl Thrown Througl
Glass Door by Burglar.
Returning fron school yesterday aftei
noon. 12-year-old Janet Nlesrew dis
covered a colored man In the apartmer
roccupiird by hI r niothi ait hirielf a
41: M sotre-t no-rtlh- I '1 -e chit
shrieked at *ighi ,f th.- im;,!, ni a., th
mian turn-d to run he I -.t! z aint her
throwing her into the i1,- Antrn-e doc
to the apartment. Th ,hild's face an
hod, were lace-r..ted b the breakIn
glais
Th- negro r:-n fi-Tm: :Ih, I- rninz a
nhfiWrhtubo i-iAe int-. t, . aparrtri nt in an
v.r to ht child's -ri- T:- -tis <
the Mi-grew apa rtmoem -re ransacke
but nothing was missng exce-pt t, .-e
rier-. indicating thl!! hie had ber-n look
Inir for moIe .
When Dr. Frederlk Ya-ts arri-ed h
routnd the girl bl-i !d n piroifisel, unde:
rne iir:.. where th, z-s had cut a dee
rashi in her hody. There were a numbe
of minor cuts shout the child's face an
i1 1112.
Thi e- other cases of housebreaking wer
-eported to the oolice yesterday. but th
; .; L" , . , 1red 11t1l, 1--t.
Mrs. Lelioe Osborne. 1I1 I-knit isr
:h--. -.prt.id that tho-iNs brk
nto i ,i hone and lole abot 30 %ort
of xiiall riieces of ji-welry from ier room1
Ibout 130 worth more. includhi a gol
katch and two wings. were taken frot
ie room of 1ruols Ellis at the same ad
Irei,-.
A dres, valued at $!5 wa. stolen b
hieves who entered the home of Min
rnnie Coon at *_8 Fnits.ir' W et r"
northwest. sesterdy. Miss Daivid. of 22
Eighteenth tireet. retported that her hous
ian been entered and ransaiked.
A .-. alther blue steel revolver wa
ztoh n Ir-m t-ie h me rf Williain
Iowins. 0i I street ort. test. by a th.
irho tt-red the plac, xtrough a ra
A indow
GHIHUAHUA CITY FIiHT
SHROUDED IN MYSTER1
Villa and Men Reported Fully Fiftee
Miles from Trevino Citadel.
I BY the Iternatlemat Aoes %ervice
,1 A'. Anoni . Tru'. or 2 -tnit
tis authorities hi tonijght Aere a
A -s. to ktno1 A i, ity w ,. ha
h;Apn.1.ied to i ''ihutahu 'it C
pitail agen't- at 1: P!s.- and Juar.
-t ot to ti n. Fi d irt It : n stT
-tisd liar hr .ta-irnt. Trev-sir
nnd Gen. (zunta still maintained cor
fthe stat" "1pl Wh , \-illa al
rite were fullA%,r, i, mhi I tro
:h m'kirts of tire T . i..r !t.
1i';rr xrpert, at Fort lar Histt
, -. id ith- beli-f 'h-it all re orts <
Il.h t i tinr around 'hihuah a r-t- I
-nii-. - itnd telegrath wrer .re l --s e
T ,sarI thial tire knownfai '1
fiht'n icte last T-it da mi. it.
th.t both Trevino ;, l V a - ri s
1f iimmunritjio and :! , h-ih
tptrarently were for t-. -t -
causi 'I earh other to -it. h;,
,itrplr of bullets aii sh. -
Th wti- a s n1othini t- -0 .it- 7h;t 1i
the h,-Il for 'l-iih hu -is.
t-r irt tie "h-itt'- -- - - h t tu
th , Iandits id the i u c/u
GIVES UP $10.000 FOR CITY.
( h1- _.:. N(,\. ""-M r. Smoith ,s it,
in :-11, S-- .- I :i "n h<
home of IIre thanri a -arn Ilit far
of %I , nu r.I .. - e ir a khur-t,. %i
chce, inr fromt a -norn1 hiureds of al
p tins to he.m- threir f-t- daniht.
anc cho were to give her $1 N10 for h
eefor then H-: thi-ir lifetirir
-tr-.i-drev- Env to plak
* trunk, hid the farm nrar Amhr
- -- -a- -11-.---dI. and lia - ,
- a "r-nion tpen' Aritr. who ser
r ble lette- rs I the- 19rikhuirst
. -ling her character. The- other wt
rih - wsas i c it -orn ant l-ridi :nit ti
elfs's icall was too -itront ,
20.000 ITALIN LOST.
BerlIn (via Ras-ville wire-lersih Nonv. "7.
Twenty thousand men have br-en lost 1
the Italans in :he Arab uprising In. Ti
poll, It Is estirnated, in disptatc-he-sr
ceived by the Ove-rsieas News Agi-ncy fro
Constantinople today.
These figure, do not Include prisoinet
The fightIng has spread Into Tuntis. whi<
Is held by the French. It Is said th
Turkish rule has been reinstated in T1
proll. Tripoli was taken fromn Turkey I
Italy In the Turco-1talian war In 1111
TEREE DOTS DIE IN 30K CAR
Chicago. Nov. TI.-The bodies of thr
litte bosarlo Gavanda. 9; Gor
Sturna. 13. and Stephen Vadek. 13--tod
lie in the maorgue while the ooreaer is pr
parhag for e n inquest leto their deat
froms asphyxziation In a leaded freight c
Itn wichI they were locked by a nig
wateinaan.
Why the boys entered the car Is u
known. It is believed thei mEW enu at
Mals a me.
BUCHAREST NEAR
fALL AS GERMAN
ARMYSWEEPSON
Teutons Capture Ralway Cty
of Alexandria, Peshing
Rumanians Back.
(By the iater.--s.=-a. Negas Sm
lndon. Nov. 27.-With ,,o
swiftness, the titanic Teutom dual stati
roller. with Falkenhayn and Kackon====
as steersmen, is amshtg forwag In
Western Rumanita The fal of N
seems tonight but a matte. of days.
Already reports from various sources
today stated that King fterilinsaft gaw
ermnent In about to fles to Rus=
The Vossische Zelttmg. of Berlin, %aura
from its Sofia correspondent that the
I Russian Czar is on his way to the
Rumanian frontier. where he wil confer
with King Ferdinand.
Litest officia! word from Berlin to
nilht was to the eff'ct that the entire
Alt line is in Teuton hands. This means
that one-fifth of Rumania comprising
- one of the most fertile plains of Europe.
- has been overrun by the invaders and
that the great vertical railway from
Rothenthurn pass to the Danube is In
!their po-ss4easicn.
Alexandria Captured.
01ler outstanding features in the situa
tion toda y. as shown by tosday's official
ras-ounts from the various war oms.
are
The railway city of Alexandria, forty
se.o.n miles seuthwe.t from Bucharest.
was "aptured today iy the joint forces
.,f ;en. voin Falkenhayn and Field
- arshal son Markensien.
A se-ot trap has been sprung for the
R imarmn army which held out to the
L last at irsova. near the "iron gate." It
t has 1--n driven from Turnu-Seveuin.
- rfter the capturs of that city and Orsova.
to the southeast. "Other forces in this
di- tion.'' say the German war offIce,
r ;,t blocking their way."
) ueharest Admta metret.
SItuchareat officially admitted the rtre
ment of the Rumanian forces from the
Alt and Topolog rivers. which virtua~ly
,rrohorates the German Claim that the
; hole Alt line has been seized. Pushing
si'.thward from Ramnica-Valoea, taken
est. rdav. Falklnhayn's Alt foreas have
thus advanced fifteen miles In twenty
four hours.
Petrograd asserts that the "rtng
i Rumanians.' taking advantage Of %be
- natural quality of the country. ame "1e
isting the enemy's advalsle."
The number of prisonesa tab= b $1=
invaders Is est'priduty siL
-t'tder Russian leadersip. wefi en
t1 t1 ien-d in the school of Grand Doke
N iholis. the "master of retrestiag
-trat.''. who time and time again
.foild lind. nhuirt and Mackennen in the
. f 1, Ktrig Ferdinand's scattered
armie'Ilts ar to be extricating themn
1 elves xterously from the TeUtes
traps i-t when these seem on tb* poai
of nat hing their hnma prel.
BAVARIAN ROWNI'INCE
PREDITS LON BATLE
Sees No Prospect of Conclusion to
Titanic Struggle Along Somme.
I Ily the stoernatlesal News serybel
I M'mh. H arms. Nov. ,.-Crown
Irinc Ru , of B:, aria, command
of th. '.rinn armies on the Somrine.
z-s no pr.s-t of a conclusion to th
it 'lht hatil. which the French and
1 riti a rna , ' - mashing against the
- 1,n rneu nt in an effort to break
a through
No't oIly is the great allied offensi"%
.l, t. i'br- forth with fresh fu:ry at
n mom, buit there is no. indication
f 1h:'t the l i-ing down of %inter will
y m itd t the tIcitane efforts of the
".iiZinttg this f ril.o- is prepared
rriite attikh tian an"
th' w't bldtiest haIth. Th crot
ne, t. : - that th ,-rntIan armies
t i.,n b. <r! r,- at.d that th
1, tI- .-jen rath ,'d in Fralce are
t i t h sit t ri -
h'tI fS't i:
w. 0 . v
250 GUNMEN ROUNDED UP
hit'a . Nov. -Two hundred and
I sus!. m.. nn m' i' Ui 1 1
a a r' sit if -1 ,on-wide rou'd-up by
I Imn,n fii ' the t hirty-fitth blach
-tr niurdr the sear
r Jo,,-itph I 1hm ard. a trocer. shot to deith
it fiont of his h1om- is tle iatest victim
Th'- tmurd, r is tiae-ibl' to a family ven
cotta which already his chumind twenty
tavenn livs-. and which. the police sY.
is one of the ramificatio a of a series of
tlackhand killirgs hire.
When the policemen arriv'ed enth
scene. Mrs. Rose ..-lardl. the widow,
was on her- knees be~iide the body. hath
ing her hands In thte dead man's bed
and taking the oath of vengea.
CONVICTS AID IN REMUE
Joiet.e'' 11. o.".-Miss Ldllian
Krimerco.M.a student at Nforthwest
Sern 'olle' 'c, wskilled outeitht and Rev.
IE. 0. Rit". evangehteal minister of Naper
ville-. was ser'iously Irnured when an an
htognobhile phmnd off a 31foot cliE near
the Joliet prison honor campn today.
tKiriam Rife. 18. and John WillIba. 23.
- er, slightly tijured.
Honor convicts aided inth es.
WnaoON To flrIrfN~ LET.
e New York. Nov. 27.-On behalf et the
s, nation Presideni Wils will acept the
y permanent flood lighting system florth
a. Statue of U~bert y next Saturday night. it
3s 5as announced today'.
rA rocket signai I tom the Presidenal
at~ yach~t Raynoer whic'h will be ia the
harbor, will eivey" thle order to ter h
i-I eurrent on. Tie warships In the baa
did s-il fire a salute' The Preidet WE M
asho.e Wai a .rmeee wiln M
