ARIZONA REPUBL
AN INDEPENDENT PROGRESSIVE JOURNAL
tw i:nt y-se vexti I ye ak
12 PAGES
PHOENIX, AJUZONA, TUESDAY, MOIiNIN?. NOVE.MIJEU 28, 1916
12 PAGES
VOL. XXVII., NO. 193
THE
ICAN
Jaws of Teutonic Pincers s
Closing Upon Bucharest
Elsewhere Is Inactivity
river in i
The entire line of the
Alt
Ilumiuiia. runtiinn north una south
through the country from the Transyl
vii man Alps to the Danube, now is in
the hands of the Teutonic Allies. In
all directions the invaders are continu
ing to make progress, with llucharest
thvir main 'objective, daily coming
nearer.
The southern and eastern drive in
the Alt region has brought the Teu
ti n ic forces across the Topolog river,
while- to the south between Uochi de
Vede and Valeni their line has been
drawn considerably nearer the Ku
manian capital. Alexandria. 47 miles
southeast of l.ucharest. has been taken
by 1'icld Marshal von Mackensen's
t roups.
Considering the swiftness of the ad
vance of the Teutonic allies through j
AVallaohia, comiratively few prisoners
have been taken, although semi-official
reports credit them with bavins cap
tured considerable supplies of needed
stores. Near Orsova, 2S officers and
lL'oO men were made prisoner, while in
the Alt region, near Tigveni, ten ad
ditional offueis and 400 men fell into
the hands of the Teutons.
In a big tiatile extending over a
front o about seventeeii miles north
west and northeast of Monastir. be
tween Trnova and Mukovo, the entente
allies, according to Perliri have met
Willi a severe defeat through the fail
ure of an attack launcriffl against the
LITTLE 1T1LVS FEUD
CLAIMS H VICTIM:
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
'KICAUO, Nov ;7. Three deaths
I v violence, developments of one day, I
w ere t.tvie- thu u-ifu of the nolice
hue to iieht. The Italian feud In Arthur J. liulfour from the admiralty.
L;ttle Italy near IV.at'i corner, claimed I lne hitesl dash of German destroyers
another victim this afternoon h f d , tne
A well oreavl mm of midole nst
was fo.iivl rnr ihe lis Ji:iinc:i river I newspapers as a futile Junketing tour
in Purest Park, a hole behind his undertaken for the purpose of home
right e ir rind a deep push behind his j consumption. The Times' naval cor
h it ei.r Prank Valentine was stabbed respondent says that as long as the
to di -it!, two OLhers were hartly cut I C.ermans care to take the risks bl
and thr-e men also badly cut were! vol ved they will airways be atde-tn re
al rry led after a fight which followed j peat such exploits.
tbe 'olosinK of tie rail ors hist night.-, The Mail, on -the other hand, say
A p.itro! wagon full of policemen or. j the Incident V'rves as a base' of an-
:.r"th"r eail. came upon the ;x men
fi'ihting wlih knie! under an electrir
liht. and lefore they could club the
contestant npart. Valentine had re
reieed a fatal wound.
Xone of these fighters wmilttel!
the rM.lice th1 c.'iumc of their fii;t. nor
vould any of tr.e hundred or more
Hasans v.ho f gathered about the
body of Joseph Diovardi.the-victim of
thf. I'aban shootine give any lnfor
lii.'ticn rts to hi-- nsrjilains. "
M'DANItL'S DEFENSE CONTrNUES
Reoubbcan A. P. Lea ted Wire
HT.-J-iSKPH Mo.. Nov. 27. The de-'
fe.-.se today continued its attacks on
the state's attempt to weave a web
of circumstantial evidence a-gainst
Prosecutor tlsc-ir l. Mclanlel on trial
on the charge of having. murdered his
wife. Attorneys for the accused man
devoted their principal efforts to en
deavor to 'show that McDaniel had
been happ? in his home life and that
he had borne a reputation for "honest,
morality, and general good cilizen
Mil." Virtually all of the C wit
nesses called during the davv testified
.that McOunifl and his wife never
quarrMed.
-n
SUNDAY'S TOLL OF LIFE
Itf TRAFFIC CfiASHES
KOKOMO. Ind . Nov. ;7: lf:r
IwohH wie killed here tody,
th'ee 'nFUttltly, when Hbuggy in
which they ivere riding was struck
bv a pastc-nger train at a street
cr.vlr.Y-
i lI.TRoIT. Nov 27. rive ir- I
I sons were int.intlv !;i!ltd. another i
I seriouslv injured tonight when an I
! intei hi rban trolly car crasher! into
I Ihe'r nutr mobile near th northern I
' li limit?. ;
H . Tifll Nov. 2C Joseph
'ttfut was killed, a girl and two
other men were Injured critically
when ! street car and an automo-
lie in which the four were riding
Mllided l.ere tonight.
I
-
-n
f Renublicnn A. P. Leased Wire
Ixil'GLA.S. Nov. 27. In Ihe proi
ence of a lar ge crowd of spe-t ijo. s,
"M "Xicans and a number of Americans,
Jose Hernandez, a second sen-cant in
the fo. e of General Manuel Mobar.o,
van executed thU afternoon In the
cemetery a half mile i-oi.lh of Agu.i
' Prietu, for th miH-der of Ke've:tiif.
Antonio Cervantes, whom he stil.b'.l
to death on tbe street, Saturday, alter
ervantes hall struck a
follower.
woman tarnp
Hernandez was tried Saturday af
ternoon and condemned to die Sunday
afternoon at 4 o'clock. Three minute
before the execution was to tike
1 bice, General Hoharzo. w rjo had b' n
i.t a barbei ue. on a ranch a few mil s
sooth, ai rived. Me found Demand -z !
had been given liquor by bin guards.
MEXICAN-EXECUTED IN PRESENCE
Cf LARGE HMD SI-MI PRIETI
lie ordered the postponement of the ,.in,.i ,.,ii.,,i, ' . , n a delegnte to the republican nation-
execution for 24 hours As none 4-f : nau,ralii!at",n ' , al cvention; served as sheriff of ;,h-
.the guards would admit gh Inar the I ' nited States district court here today son county, Indiana, and has taken an
man liquor, all were arrested and are u"u'r exercising for fifty-two years all j active part in politics for many years,
now in Jail. jthe rights of citizenship. Lockhart, a The question of his citizenship arose
The woman over wbom the troiiM,.' native of Ireland, assumed that he wawhen he filed on government land In
arose between llernnndca anil Ccr- 1 citizen because of naturalization pa-i southern Colorado and it wan learned
vantes was arrested and convict-d pets, believed to have been issued to his that he was not native born and that
ffter :. trial of being en accessory to lather before the son had reached his no record was available lo show that
the crime. 81, c will be sent to IIit- 1 majority, lie has voted at every pros-i his father had become naturalized.
lines of the allies of the central powersV
Aside from reports of the repulse of the
Unitarians by the Serbians and of con
tinued progress for the Italians west of
the Monastir the entente allied war
offices record no important gains on
the Macedonian front. v
In the Carilia sector of the Austrn
ltalian theater and east of Gorzia the
Austrians are vigorously shelling he
Italians. On the Russian front there
lias been considerable activity by both
the Ilussians ami Germans at various
points.
Comparative calm still prevails all
along the front in France, so far as
hifantry engagements are concerned.
A lierlin semi-official dispatch says
there are indications that the entente
allies contemplate fresh offensives,
probably near Armentieres and east of
Arras, where heavy artillery bombard
ments are being carried out, and also
oti the St. Mihiel front east of Verdun.
Another semi-official disiatch from
P.crliu quotes Constantinople advices
to the effect that Arabs on the Tripoli
Ttinui frontier in north -AfrM-a, have
defeated the Italians and carried the
fight acr. ss the border into Tuni
against the French, The losses of
the Italians are estimated M 20.000
men. not including pnsouers taken into
he interior by the Aralis.
Creat Uritain lias definitely declined
to grant a safe conduct to the I'nited
states of the newly njipointed'Austro
ll.irigarian ambassador.
HSIMD PLAY,
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
I.ONIMJX. Nov. 27. Except in quar-
i ters which are campaigning to onsi
other severe attack on Mrt 1.,-ilfour.
whom it fioMs responsirue for this
tiumaiation wtucn exp.ises a proua ana
great nation to the jeers of the
enemy." The Mail also recalls Mr. I!.il
four's speech cf November V. in which,
referring to the channel raid of Oetuher
.ii. ae saio ne was coniiueni mm ii
the Uermans rim again, they would I
not escape disaster.
TO GET DOLLAR RAISE
.
t'Pobhc" A- p- i-aed Wire
l ions SAY IDS
tl W 5
B'.L.LlNOS, Mont., Nov. 26. ttugar i national incorporation on one new
bect growers supplying the cut Wes- road, he said the cpiestion confronting
tern Sugar Comiiany will receive next 'he- public now Is not bow a ia'. lonally
year one dollar more for all. grades of ! Incorporated road would sm-ceed. but
beets than this year's contracts call for, I how to ,ak ar f the 2.'.o,t'ii miles of
according to announcement made to- I r"au already In operation, which jieed
night by V. L. Ijiwson, manager ofj'"1' ""'" rllf,f believed will be
, the comnanv's I'.illinus factorv. on his
' return from a meeting of suga of
ficials in Ienver at which the Increase
was decided on. It will apply to all the
company's factories throughout the
west.
The new scale, according to
Mr
Lawson, is the highest ever paid for
sugar beets In ih'- f"nited IStates. It
ranges from 16 a ton for beets with
a sugar content of 'not less than 12
and under 14 per cent to-fT.CO a ton
for bets carrying not less than 19 or
more than per cent for sugar with
a i corresponding increase for higher
i grades.
1 The new price is 50 cents a ton
higher thart paid this year, the com
iiany having, after the l!Hti contracts
were made, given the farmers a f0
cent bonus. .
U. 3. ATTORNEY KILLED
fFteiublican A. P. Leased Wire
TOPKKA. Kas.. Nov. 27. Krancts
M. llrady. assistant I.'. H. district attor
ney fell out of a fourth story window
of a hotel here tonight and was in
stantly killed. '
T
mosillo to tcrVe n term in the state
prison Ceneral Soburzo said this af
ternoon .he Intended to exclude all
camp followers, male c.s well as fe
male, from Agtiii Prieta, ns a result
of the Ml.ibblng.
-r
Had Voted For Years mid .
Was Not American Citizen
(republican A. P. Leased AVire ,
DENVER, Nov. 27. James I.oekhart,
a rancher near Ordwav Colo wii
a rancher near Ordway, Colo., was
granted naturalization papers In
RESERVE BANKS WARNED
ACAISTFORE
SHORT TERM TREASURY BILLS
REORGANIZATION
Or A
LAW FIRM I
EAKEWOOD, X. J.. Nov. 27.--
Charles K. Hughes announced here I
tonight that on January 1. he will I
resume the praitice of law as a :
member of the Wew York City I
j firm of Rounds, Schurmnn and
Mwljrht, Hij liroadway. His son, ;
Charles K. Hughes.' Jr., also, will !
i enter the firm it is stated. !
! In Ploti when Mr. Hutches was 1
I nominated for governor of New
j York, he was a memliec of the !
I same firm under the name of ;
I Hughes. Hounds unit Schtirman. I
I with Mr. Hughes again in .bi :
I firm. Its new n.ime will be Hughes, 1
I Koiwuls, Schuimun anil lwight. f
I Ai.j-oclited with Mr. Miches and I
his son will oe Arthur '. Hounds, I
I ijeori:-- iv frhurinan. Ilichard k,' 1
' Dwight. Walter I-', Carter, Hay- I
1 moral M. I.owes, Martin J. Keogh, I
I Jr. Augustas, E. Kichards and
j JIurvev I- tpwell. I
D
TELLS WHIT TIE
Republcan A. P. leased Wirej
WASHIXCTi N. Nov. I'.. Kx.umna-
.ion
of A. C. Thorn, counsel for the
iiaiiway executives ndvUory commltiee".
I on s.iKgestions hp has made in fehalf
of the railroads for legislation to ;m
i prove their situation wu begun today
jby the joint congress'onal cpnimitttv
! investigating transportation problems.
Senator Xewlands, ihairtiian, and Rep
resentative Adan.sori v!ce ch.iirir.an i f
line committee, conducted loday ex-
tne
... I
luminatlon and
Mr. Tiu rn will resume I
J the tialid toiuortow arid
; by other nu mbers.
in- iiaestioried i
Mr. 'i tiurn i temimony i
directed-
almo.st exclusively toward
develop-
mem ol
his s:i,geseM.n tor the comtml-
sory national Im or.ioration
of in. I
roads. He .-gild he believed congress has
wer to compel a carrier to obtain a
federal license or (barter or fore'd it
to enler interstate commre. l oiice
IHiwets over gru.le crossings. seiara'.e
passener cars for (prieicnt races, t.. n-
I-
nuon. and other such iiuestions, he
Uiougit, should te left as far as nos-
sibl to the state. He opposed divi
ne! limitations on national; v. In.-or-
poratea roads unless a minimum as
well asa maximum rate Is fixed.
Answering a wiggesriori by Mr. Ad-
jamson that the railroads might try out,1
lIO,in" unifej- a federal lontrollcd
found
system
Mr, Thom said the villroioli are al
most unanimously for federal Incorpo
ration and although most railroad men
oppose government ownership there
larp Bnmri no are anxious for it. He
ueciareo ii wouio oe fhhv io iHovine lor
government ownership If the money to
buy the roads were found and said. In
his op'nlon federal Incorporation "woulj
not be n step toward mich ownership.
1 o
Mexican Miners
Go Oh A 'Strike
' A New Cornelia
Republican K P. Leased Wire
KISMKK. Nov. 27. According tn
telegram received in Mlsl.ee line this
nftemoorKjciurviiund'-ed Mexican min
ers cmplo'i bv the New Cornelia
' opptr company -it AJo, Arizona, have
cone on strike, demanding thatMhelr
wages be o.iH"d on a sliding scale. As
in othe,r mining camps In the state.
The walkout war precipnted bv action
taken about bv twenty carpenters who
refused to v.ork unless their wages
were Increased.
It, is rini.crstood thiit .Ihe Calumet
and Ari7ona company, which owns
eighty-five per cent op the stock of
the new Cornelia and whose manage
ment tilso handles the A to mine, based
Its uiifixiUnn to raising 4he pay of theH
men on the fponnd that the mine Is
net prodminif and cannot vtherefore
pay according to the sliding scirle.
John (.'. Orennway. manager sof the
Vnr.it A. and New Cornelia, was not
in Plsbie last evening and no state
ment concerning- Ihe strike, could oe
secured from bin.
Idential election slni'e the civil war of
1 which he Is a veteran, held a commis-
sion 'n the I'nited States aamv, served
1 STAN
RAILROADS NEED
IGN LOANS ON
til REFLECTION
ON STABILITY
0FTHEALL1ES
. Republican A. P. Leised Wire
WASHINGTON. Nov. 1'7.- -Ameri
can bankers were warned by tin fed
eral reserve board today to avoid lock- I
lug up their fund by purchasing lras- '
ury lulls or toreign governments jn
volving long term obligation!. Whil
specitii-alik. disclaiming "any intention
of reflecting upon the financial stabil
-r
ii
it y of any nation," the board advises all
mvtstors to proceed with caution and
formally announced to menilier banks
ot tne federal reserve ssrem that with
the I ti ii nl funds which should be avail
able to American merchants, manu
facturers and farmers in danger of
liemg ubsnrbcd for, other puroses It
"does not regard it Jti the interest of
the country at lr',me that they In
vest In foreign treasury bills of this
character."
The statement Is regarded In offkiaH
cireleti ils one of the most important
declarations bythe boaid vsince its!
creation. Officials would not discuss'
the question for publication but some (
of them Informally Interpreted the
warning as the resrrve board's answer j
to the recent propiwal of .1. 1'. Morgan
and comiany, HrKtsti rinance agents in !
this county, to have American bankers
accept Itritish treasury bills of un in -1
d-finlte total issue, secured by gold j
rererves held in Mtawa. Hunt loans
would be for SO days m,lth the privilege I
fif reneunl i
ii. I . uavison oi trie .Morgan firm,
Wi. ir Vii.1iImiI..ii -,. t 1 ..,..1 ... ... '
I
. ... - . ... ... u government ana tne entente allies is in
ferred with President ilsos and some ,.,,,,.,., aa ,t result .if the failure of.,
of the memlK-rs of the reserve board. ,h(. isrHiah vernment to grant safe
t wca said later that he sought to have j conduct to fount Tarnowski the newly
'7'"" y!"i",m nu,1; appointed Austro-Uungar.an ambassa
to buy 1 rit.sh treasury bills as If they i ,,,., , rnjtwl s
were bills of exi bange to cover com-: ,
mi.rr hi trnii.n'li.'in.
,,, i":,"7 ,
In rge lehiounts of cold, the board savs
Mill arise onlv In case the iruld i ner-
mitted to become the tm.i. of n.ole.ir.
ante loan expansions and of inflation.
l-.rnpbasis Is laid oihiii the necessity for
cauUon In nut i mi; immn- intu Iiivoki.
its which are short term in name
out which either hy contact or , to his niu ame as an unjjeasant sur
tbruiiRh force of circumstances may tn j l,rse. It had not been doubted here
the aggregate have to be renewed tin- i that Creat Uritain would be the last
til normal conditions return." 'power to deny the privileged character
The board's warning In the form of a of a diplomatic official such a -tiyage.
statement to be published later In the) Aside from the belief that England
Kedeifii Kesetve bulletin, follows: would not desire, to arouse adverse
"In view of contradictory reports i feeding in the United States by inter
whlch have appeared in the press re- fere nee with the ancient and generally
gardlng its attitude toward the pur-, unquestioned right of a neutral govern
chasing by banka in this country of meat to receive an ambassador or min-
' later, officials had counted upon Great
( onfiniied on Page Two) I Uritain s record in the Mason and
Wilson and Gerard
Talk Over Germany
Lansing Entertains
f Republican A. P. Leased. Wire -VAStNCTN,
Nov. 27. lerman
riierican relations were discusseit ut
un tiuurs conference tcd.iv beiwe.-.i
Secretary Lansing and -v Ambassndor
'ier,irii, v. ho sails 1ecember fifth !o
res.inie his post at Heilin. The hiti
basiador ih expected to see President
Wilson tomorrow. .
No statement waJ foithcomin;t
either from eot retary Lansing or tlic
ambassador regarding, their lonfer
ence, CondiUofis generally In Cermanv
are said t tixve leeii talked over at
length, and it was wporled that Mr.
tensing outlined fully Ihe attitude of
this government towitrd the deporta
tion of Belgians for labor in Germany.
Count vcjn Pa-rnstorff, the German
ambassador, entertained Amhiussador
!erard and Secretary Iansing at
luncheon, and toniglft Jrfr. Gerard, the
German ambassador and Joseph E.
Wlllurd, American ambassador to
S-'pfiln, were dinner guests at Hecre
tary Lansing's home. In diHcusslng at
the state department during the day
the latest reports of the possibility of
ii new crisis over submarine warfare.
Secretary Lansing reiterated his be
lief that there was no basis for the
agitation. -
Amundsen's Plan
To Fly Over Pole
In Hydroaeroplane
. Republican A. P. Leased Wire
:KV Vol.K, No.v. 27. To soar over
the north pole in a hydroaeroplane Is'
Ihe ambition of Hoald 'Amundsen, the
Norweiglan explorer, who a few years
ago attained the soulh pole. Caption
Amundsen arrived here today from
i! 'niinhnirnn In liliri h.'IM IWil h Vll m
neroplaneH for that 'purpose. Stnrtiffg
In the summer of litis, he tsald he
expects 4o be In the far nitfWh from
two to five years. The main object
of Iris flight, Captain Amundsen de
clared, would be to study the nlr ct:r
rents 'around the pole.
. "I shall follow the coast of Sl'.ierla
until the Ice bre:ks up and then drift
toward the pole," said Captain Amund
sen "The drift should take us to
point somewhere between Spitzbergen
.nd Greenland, after we have made an
almust complete circle f th ..n
the globe. 1 hope to ba within 100
miles of th" pole or iru at loe fi
thent. when f leave the -ship. Then
will follow the dash by hydroncro
plane or lcile."' i
TO ABBREVIATE THE
I COST OF LIVING
COST OF LIVING
I NEW YORK, Xoy. .27. A state I
I i commission to deal with the preS7
J 1 ent increased cost of living, will be J
I I urged upon the legislature' by
j ! Coventor Whitman, he announced
I 1 ere tonight. I
j i The sffoiitlon , rallif for "legis- I
I : lation ai'it etfci'Ve accomplish- I
j i mnt." .the governor said.. He j
i I added that 11 may take ;r week or I
J two to complete the plan, he and I
I I and others prominent in the cam- I
I p;'.ign to lower food prices have I
' in min-l. I
: 'if course," said the governor.
' : "lln cent nil Idea must be the "J
J I l rinr;ing of farm products direct ti
' the cMiisumi r. Xf aretr'ng to !
I devls'e a plan villi the intent 'on of I
pla"ing it beiore lij" legislature.
I I elime lw
a si toll of
Is a Hl:i
;o have :;
the price I
of food st;t
It is my i.l
Sio'l tuilldll
wav, wita a
cf it."
Co'crnor
nwlter. I
coiruiiis- I
he thing in
a
:g man .it the h' id
Wiiiitn.m si l he I e-
lV'd the
si Id be
l.noAliars
Iiei d or' the l omin .".-.ion
a ma.i oj' i:ii't;r'-stiori"d
of the to., t. siti at on.
T0COKIET0U.S.
Republican A.
VA.HIXCTOX.
P. Leated
Nov. 27.
Wire
Another
controversy letween the American S
.... ...... I
I the subject the mite department was
: not in a imsition tolay to discuss it
J formally or 4o forecast the course the
'governmem is likciy to pursue. It was
made evident, however, that the unfav-
oraoie action or trre Hritlsh foreign of
fice on the notice of intention of the
new ambassador to cross-the Atlantic
Slidell case to prevent, such an action a
reported In today's cable dispatches.
The fact is recognized that in uro-
testlng against the removal of the eori-l
ederate commissioners from the steam
ship Trent, the llritish government was
(Continued on Page Two)'
fieocbllcan A. P. Leased Wire
KANS.S CITY, Nov. 2". Symp
toms of the infection for which federal
and slate livestock experts have quar-
iiuineu tne local stock yards, fearing
that the conditions might develop into
the foot and mouth disease, has spread
to i w steers, other than the original
herd shipped here from Wauneta. Neb..
Dr. James Hemlng. local head of the
federal bureau of animal industry an
nounced tonight.
1 he two steers were in health when
placed in the herd several dava ago.
Tonight veterinarians found the sume
lesions In the mouth which have sig
nalized the condition of the rest of the
shipment.
Thealves. hogs and horses which
have been Inoculated Willi virus taken
from the' suspected cattle have as yet
shown no effects of the serum. How-
ever, veterinarians declared results
iuRiiRiiqqiinnfiiq
niviunuunuuii iu
RETUSEB RIGHT
INFECTION SPREADS IN CATTLE QUARANTINE: -MOT
YET CERTAIN IT IS f DDT AND MOUTH DISEASE
i
were not expected at this early dateilivestock exchange building.
awl it probably would be Wednesday
Arizona Livestock In
Good ShapeDr.
Arizona stock dealers have no
cause for alarm in the resort of the
prevalence of the foot and mouth
disease in Nebraska, Kansas and
Missouri, according to a statement
issued by Dr. Warren D. Severn,
state veterinarian. Stock through
out the state is said to ba in excel
lent condition, ,'
"Arizona is free from all forms of
stock contagion," said Dr. Severn
in a recent interview. "Conditions
are much better at the present
time than for the past Several
years,"
It is' believed that dealers
throughout the state have taken
the necessary precautions to pre
vent any serious epide.o cs-of stock
infection. Considerable attention
has been paid in the past few
months to preventative measures,
which have been adopted by prac-
RUMQH OF MOVFJIENTON JUAREZ
VILLA IS ENROUTE NORTHWARD
AFTER HAVING TAKEN CHIHUAHUA
Republican A. P. Leasert Wire
EL. PASO, Nov. 27.--Viii.. is mov
ing northward from Chihuahua CltyJ
according to a dispatch from Ceneral
Trevino received tonight by Ceneral
(ionstules at Juarez, who was or
flereil to concentrate his forces here
In defense. A private message, com
ing over the seme route adds that not
only Is Villa proceeding north, but
he is in control of Chihuahua City,
which Ceneral Trevino is said to have
abandoned, proceeding southward.
Cleneral Trevino, according to the pri
vale tepurt, aaid that afle- effecting
a junction with Ceneral Muvguia, he
would return and recapture i'hihua
hua. ' ' , j
Metaage from Trevino
Jl'AUKi;, Tex.. Nov. si. A message
dictutid by Ceneral Trevino at Chi
huahua City n noon lodjv was re
ceived hire tonight at military bead
iiii:rtcrs. It cijjitalned military in-r-trut
lions only, Carranza officials
state.
The message from Ceneral Trevino
was. sent in code by way of Ojinaga,
opisislle the Texas town of Presidio,
where it was relayed. It said, ac-l
cording to Cart in? officials, that!
Villa was moving north, anfl ordered
the detached garrisons along this sec
Ton of the frontier and on the Mexico
Northwistern line to concenHale in
.luarez. The message, they ndded,
spoke of tils as the, fifth day of
Viiln's uitacks.
The countenances of the civd and
military men in the Jurj-ez headquar
ters tonight showed clearly the seri
ousness of the news.
"No. I think not." was theinswer
Hivh by a Cr.rranza representative of
high rank when asked whether the
Villa crisis was yet over.
-It is understood that there are about
fin, men, mostly Infantry, in or near
Jtripx.
Telegr.inbk' communication was still
oicp tonieht with Satiz. about " .'5
miles above Chihuahua, the military
men said. 1 hey fn-ofested consider
able anxiety about the Carranza. gar
rison thi-ro-.
Ceneral Merguia. wilh his larg?
forces. I ad been expected d;Til- to
to the rescue of IJie liesieged
city.
Frnrr- Another Sourc
txil'CI.AS. Nov. 27. Krartcisuo
Villa's force rave caVtured Chihu
hii.i rind now hold that city ns well
as Pnrral. avcordi-.ig to the staiemi-nt
of n Mexiian heie v ho claimed to be
affiliated with the legalistas. and to
have received a mcs'-as to that ef
fect rodav.
The s.ime mnn claired thrt Oriza
ba, a toe n 'tween Vera Cruz an t
i.icn ( itv had been captured !
leg.ilistas and eommunii ation de
stroyed between the nAiport and ni
tinnnl canlto bv bornir.g a iarere r; ? -road
bridge ind cutting the wires. Me
said H is news had been supores -;l
by -Crurranzn censors at Vera Cru-
f!eper:'.l Manuel So'.iarzo command -Pig
the i Carranza forces in north' i
Sonfir-i. sent heavy cav; .lev patrols to
emit alon'? the Chihiiainn bor-ler.
Saturday. II" said todav h's men had
failed to find any trare of Villa troops.
A Hr.iat Washinqton
'WASHINOTOX. Nov. 2 7. Official
pdviees received here tnd,y s-cy th-it
on Kat'i""i--v night the Viila -forces :M-Uo'kin-
Ohibvehtirt Citv bad neneieit
ed Into" the citv and established a
line of tr'!i lios. Pi isrrnT at II"'
len!tenGir,. were liberated, the dis
patches slid, and the "u.'.rils lo'pel
the Villa loe-s. Cews
VUwitchca
before the infection would make itself i Statement by Department
vl' ! -WASHINGTON, Nov. 27. It will be
A reisjrt that foot and mouth dis- (several days before federal experts can
ease, had been found In the herd of i determine wiiether cattle held at Kan
John Schmidt, nertr Tescott, Kas., was j sax City have foot and mouth .disea.se,
shown Dr. Eleming. -The cattle were! said a department of agriculture stare
purchased in the Kansas City yards ! ment issued hit today, inoculation
last Thursday, .and the farm has been Wests are being made at Kansas City
quarantined after a government vetcr- jand here. "
inariun had Inspected the herd. J The department's advices covered
Kansas City and St. Joseph markets! only one uspeetedi case of the riir
were oiwrating nnder a restricted t.rase, a shipment of cattle from Wan
quarantine today. Incoming shipments neta. Neb., to Kansas City via St.
were permitted only in cases of cattle j Joseph, Mo. Reports of local quarnn
fbr Immediate slaughter. No develop- tines imposed in cities in the middle
ments have'been noticed at St. Joseph west drew, from the department una
where the Wa'unota herd was fed and j statement: "On the twentv-first in
watered on helr way from the Ne-jstant there were received "at Kansas
brasjta plains to Kansas City. rCity stockyards 130 cattle shipped
A meeting of livestock dealers at the I from AVauneta, Neb., unloaded and feu
stockyards today was productive of.an at St. Joseph on the 20th. Part of
order whicn will go into effect tomor- these 1 cattle- showed lesions in the
row morning and will include the dis- 1 month strongly resembling foot and
oucciing oi me BUH-nynnis, even io in
the ofiice
and trading center.
Severn
tically every large dealer
the
state.
It is highly probable that more
rigid inspection will be maintained
by the state veterinary department
for the next few weeks, however, as
additional precautionary measures
against an epidemic of the foot and
mouth disease in this state. While
there are no suspected herds in
Arizona at the present time, all
cases of illness among stock will
be closely watched.
An epidemic of such a disease in
Arizona would prove a disaster to
the stock interests of the entire
state. As the stock industry is one
of the principal assets of the state,
it would naturally work untold
hardships with all interests of the
state. For this reason, every pre
caution will be taken to forestall
all contagious diseases among
stock.
have later reoortej the repulse of th
attackers, but nothing 4,f:'i. :n on that
feature had leached here '..day.
"Day Old Story of Battle
CHiHL'AHUA CITy, Mcx.. Nov. 27,
fVirt Marfa, Tex, Nov. 27.) Fran is.
Villa was withdrawing his forces from
the city and going In a northwestern
direction today. 'Fighting took place
In the northwestern part of the city
where 200 Villa troops fortified them
selves. I!y sundown thev were com
pletely surrounded and they were ex
pected to be annihilated tomorrow.
Korty Villa prisoners were taken m
a cavalry charge yesterday. They said
Villa was short of ammunition and
without provisions, the men living cn
unsalted meat killed on the plains.
- Ceneral Murgula in expected t )
reach here tomorrow night. CencVjd
Trevino stated - to the Associated
Press today that the de facto troop
completely dominated the situation.
-A number of Villa bandits passed
tliuongh the grdunds of the Amiri a i
Smelting and Kefining ' compa ly s
smelter nrrtheast of the city. The
bandits also invaded the railroad
yards and shops, but only foodstuffs
and forage were taken, according t
Manager Calnn, cf the smelter. No
property was destroyed.
The Villa forces left four railroid
trains at Horcasitas station, south i f
this city, having been forced to aban
don them when the fighting became
general.
The forty Villa prisoners who were
captured during the cavalry char-'u'
of yesterday were in ,rags and com
pletely exhausted from the fighting
and from lack of food. They told the
Carranza officers of the plight Vil' l
was in because his ammunition supply
hail been exhausted and his food sup
plies consumed.
Ceneral Trevino's troops were cele
brating their success against the Villa
troops and bcirged to be allowed to
pursue the bandits into the Sierra;,
according to Ceneral Trevino.
Kepair trains have been sent nor'h
from here to re-establish communi
cation with the border at Juaiez.
No Information in Juarez.
Kl5 PASO, Nov. 27. Wheel told of
the report that the Carranza forces
had evacuated Chihuahua and with
drawn to the south to join Murguia's
column. Andres Garcia, inspector gen
eral of Mexican consulates, replied this
was a matter on wliich no information
had yet been receiver? at .Tnarez.
declined to comment furjher. saving
that he hoed for definite news soon.
Apprehension was expressed in the
military headquarters al Juarez that
the fie days of fighting had seriously
reduced the stores of the Chihuahua
! arsenal, especially in regard to the
shells as General Trevino from reports,
; relied heavily on artillery in his plan
! of defense.
! A. number of military passes were is
sued in Juarez today to timid residents
wishing to stay in El Paso until the
crisis passed.
Carranza officials said tonieht that
they expected to take the field und-r
the command of Ceneral Gonzales
against the Villa forces believed to be
moving northward.
MORE HIGH PRICES
fPeoublwan A. P. Leased Wire
PORTLAND, Ore., Nov. 27. Thanks
giving turkeys went on sale here today
at thirty-five cents a pound, the high
est price in years. Last year the- were
twenty-seven cents. Dealers said the
price would proably be lowered as there
are plenty .of birds for-the hblidaya.
' mouin uisea.se. r ntv-seven were
i slaughtered. Twenty had been shipped
to Tescott, Kas., for feeding. The I ai-
ance are held under lock in Kansas
it'ity stockyards pens.
'An inspection of the animals on the
farm at Mauneta showed a large num
ber of horses affected with mouth les
ions, but 700 hogs showed no lesions.
No foot lesions have been found in any
of the animals. Kansas and Nebraska
authorities have been requested to
quarantine premises and shipping pens.
Inspectors are instructed to locate and
request disinfection of all cars in
volved. "Inspectors at St. Joseph and Kan
sas City report all outgoing shipmints
from those yards stopped. Inoculation
tests are being niai)e at Khnsas City
and here. It undoubtedly will require
several days before a diagnosis can be
arrived at."
Officials plainly were concerned over
the reports and hoped the tests would
show the disease to be some malady
that might easily be stanqied out. It
was only last March that the govern
ment declared the country free of the
foot and rriouth scourge after an epi
demic that had lasted for many months
and had cost the federal and state gov
ernments millions of dollars. The dis
ease then spread over twenty-two
states. Hundreds of thousands of
head of livestock were killed and shio
plng restrictions upset market condi
tions to a reat extent.
7
