I Today's Metal Prices ' ".jL Lgt V'A; CLXCV1 4 P. M. CITY EDITION I I
t. , secona quarter, 32.0033.50. r N ' Wednesday Fair; Not Much Change iH
, S in Temperature. jH
I FEARLESS, INDEPENDENT, PROGRESSIVE NEWSPAPER. - , 1
I Forty-sixth Year-No. 295. Price Five Cento. QGDEN CITY, UTAH, TUESDAY EVENING, NOVEMBER 28, 1916 Entered afsecond-Claio Matter at th e Poctofflce, Ogden, Utah. !!
Zeppelins Brought Down in Flames I I
! ) and Crews of Both Airships Perish I
I London, Nov. 28, 3:40 p. m. Flying at a great height a German airplane this morning dropped six bombs on the capital, according to an official' statement issued jH
afternoon. Four persons were injured and only slight material damage, it is added, was caused. I
The text of the British announcement says: "This morning six bombs were dropped on London by a hostile airplane flying at a great height above the haze. Four H
persons were injured, of whom one, a woman, was seriously hurt. The material damage was slight." . H
I Teutons are Tightening
i Grip Around Bucharest
and Rumanian Armies
3
1 Semi-circle Around Capital Being Steadily Drawn in Entente
"j Armies Claim Repulse of Enemy on Cerna Front.
j London, Nov. 28, 2:25 p. m. The military situation in
j Rumania is improving for the Rumanians, according to a dis-
4 patch received today by the Wireless Press from Bucharest by
jj: way of Rome. Field Marshal von Mackensen is said to be
'j making no material progress. The Rumanian retreat, it is
jj added, is proceeding in perfect order on a settled front .
A
j Two important announcements are
i made today by Berlin in reporting
continued progress of the Teutonic
3 invasion of Rumania the capture of
j Giurgiu on the Danube and the talcing
) oC Curtea do Arges on the Argechu
;i river, SO miles northwest of the Mack-
ensen's army advancing from the
) southwest only 37 miles from Buch
i arest, with a railroad running thence
along which the advance may be
I pressed.
2- fn-ocoupying-iQurtea-de Argesj-Gen-1
eral von Falkenhayn's troops appar-
12 ently have driven the Rumanians from
the line of the Tepolog and may even
I have broken, near its northern end,
) the line of the Argechu, along which
a the Rumanians were expected to make
a decisive stand.
f Semi-Circle About Bucharest.
J Thus, the semi-circle about Buchar
i est and the Rumanian armies is
i gradually but steadily being drawn
closer. Substantial successes are re
; ported by Berlin in the new operations
for tightening the grip.
The latest German air raid over
England cost the raiders the loss of
two Zeppelins, according to London's
official report today. Both machines
wore brought down in flames by air
planes, assisted in one case by an
armed trawler.
Dnmairft and casualties from the
II raid, which took place late last night
I over Yorkshire and Durham and ex-
I ! tended into the north midland coun-
I ; ties, are believed to be slight, it is
I ; declared.
I ' Heavy Shelling North of Ypres.
I ' Considerable interest attaches to j
I . the reports of artillery activity that j
I ' continue to come from the Ypres,
I Arras and Armentiers districts, tov.ard
I : the northern end of the Franco-Belgian
I 4 front. The Ypres sector in particular
I i has been tivic mentioned within the
I ; last 2-i hours fxi ihe British reports,
I 1 ' last night as the scene of a British
I ) bombardment while today heavy Ger-
; man shelling of the line north of YpreB
jB recorded. Recent reports from
1 Berlin declared that indications were
I - accumulating that an attack by the
I entente at some new point along the
I ; German UneH on the western front
I was in contemplation.
Berlin Inflict Severe Losses.
I J Berlin today emphasized the impor-
M i tance of the Germano-Bulgarian buc-
I ' cesses in defeating a strong attack
l by entento forces along a wide front
) in the Monastir region. Extremely
I 8 heavy losses are declared to have been
& suffered by the French, Serbians.
T ' Italians and Russians in an assault
which netted them nothing.
I r. Another raid by German naval
I forces near the English North Sea
I i coast Is announced today. The cap-
I S ture of one vessel is reported. The
I J raid took place near Lowestoft, about
x 75 miles northeast of Ramsgate, on
I which German destroyers made a raid
I last week.
I Germans Shell British Line.
m London, Nov. 28, 12:05 p. m. "Last
II 'i nicht our lino north of Ypres was
II heavilv and continously shelled, sajs
II' today's official communication.
IP "Our casualties wero small, wo ex-
Mm Ploded a mine southeast of Souchez
It and consolidated tho crater. Three
ill' enemy bombing attacks against the
lK crater were repulsed.'
IlK Entente Repulsed North of
111 Sofia Nov. 28. Via London, 11:50
Hi a. m.-Tho repulse of attacks by on-
111 lonte troops on the front northeast
lU of Monastir in southern Serbia, ia
lm reported by the war office b 'ollos:
lift , "After artillery preparation lasting
IK nearly tho whole day, thj nemy at-
IH tacked Hill 1,050 and its western
111 Hopes and the village of Paralovo The
lift enemy's attack was repulsed, partl
It grenade fighting by German troops
WML N'ear the village of Grunishte we
IK; hipped In tho bud an attack by the
Pi ' CQ"' lhe lcft bank l lh V,ardai
I after rather violent artillery prepara
tion the enemy in the evening attack
ed our positions south of tho village
of Bogoroditsa. The attack was re
"On the remainder of the front the
artillery was active."
pulsed.
Taerman Assault Repulsed.
Paris, Nov. 28.-11:30 a. m. An at
tack was made last night by German
troops on a small French post east of
Miaaoris de'-Champagne. To"days of-
ficiai announcement says the assault
was repulsed. Elsewhere on the
front in France, the night was quiet.
The text follows:
"An attack during the night upon a
minor position east of Maisons do
Champagne was easily repulsed. The
night elsewhere on the front passed
quietly."
Quiet on Western Front.
Berlin, Nov. 28. By Wireless to
Sayville. An uneventful period along
the Franco-Belgian front is reported
by German army headquarters in to
day's official statement.
Tho text reads:
"Western front: There have been
no military operations of a major
character."
HEAVY BLOW IS
GIP ALLIES
Russians, Italians, French and
Serbians Repulsed by Germano-Bulgarian
Forces.
UNITED ATTACK FAILS
Sanguinary Losses Inflicted by
Annihilating Artillery and
Infantry Fire on Allies.
Berlin, Nov. 28. By wireless to
Sayville. Additional details of tho
success scored by tho Germano-Bulgarian
forces on the Macedonian front
In repulsing with heavy losses to the
Russians, Italians, French and Serb
ians a strong attack made by these
entento forces along a wide front on
both sides of Monastir are given in to
day's army headquarters' statement.
The text reads:
"Macedonian front: Violent artil
lery fire between Presba lake and the
Cerna preceded strong attacks which
were launched between Turnova,
northwest of Monastir and Makovo, in
the bond of the Cerna and near Grun
ishte by the Russians, Italians, French
and Serbians against the Germano
Bulgarian lines. The great united at-
pletoly.
"Under the annihilating effects of
our artillery and infantry fire, the en
emy suffered heavy, sanguinary loss
es without obtaining tho slightest re
sult." The forces Invading western Ru
mania are now within less than forty
miles of Bucharest. The town of Gi
urgiu, across the Danube from the
Bulgarian fortress of Rustchuk, is 37
miles south of the Rumanian capital.
It has considerable importance from
a militarv standpoint owing not only
to its pos'ltion with respect to Buchar
est, but to the fact that it is connect"
ed by railroad with the capital.
The attack on Bucharest from tho
north also is developing rapidly. Tho
town of Curtea de Arges is 80 miles
northwest of the city. It is 20 miles
southwest of Campulung in the vicin
ity or which there has been heavy
fighting' for several weeks.
American Steamer Tor
pedoedGoes Down
With Flag Flying.
London, Nov. 2S, 4:43 p. m. Lloyd's
reports that tho American steam
ship Chemung has been sunk.
The crew of the Chemung has been
landedat.Valencia3febjithaJSpanish
steamer Ginor, says a Reuter despatch
from Valencia today.
The Chemung was torpedoed near
Cabo de Gata, according to the des
patch. The steamer foundered with the
American flag flying, it Is added, the
captain having formally refused to
lower the flag.
The submarine towed the crew to
within five miles of the coast, the Val
encia advices state, ad then aban
doned them. At the end of the day
they were picked up by the Ginor.
The Chemung sailed from New York
on November 8 for Genoa and Naples
and stopped at Fayal, Azores, Novem
her 20. She was owned by the Harby
Steamship company of New York, was
built In 1S8S at Buffalo and was 327
feet long of 3,062 tons gross.
Cabo de Gata, or Cape Gata, is a
promontory of Spain on the coast of
Andalusia, forming tho eastern side
of the Gulf of Almeria, an arm of tho
Mediterranean.
New York, Nov. 28. The Harriss
Magill Steamship company, represent
atives here of the Harby Steamship
company, owners of the Chemung, re.
ported sunk today, said the vessel
carried general cargo only, no muni
tions or cargo owned by the Italian
government being on board.
Papers filed by the Chemung with
customs officers here shows that only'
ton of the men on board, including
Captain Duffy, were American, tho
others being Greeks, Russians, Span
iards and Mexicans.
The manifest of her cargo filed on
date of sailing shows that it consist
ed mainly of Iron and steel products,
chemicals, dried fish, wooden staves,
etc. Included in the cargo were
5,146 pieces of copper and 200 bales
of cotton.
oo
ALLIED FORCES
DEFEAHEIITONS
Four Counter Attacks in
Cerna Region Fail With
Heavy Losses.
Paris, Nov. 28.-12:30 p m. Ger
man and Bulgarian troops on the
, Macedonian front made four counter
attacks last night in an effort to drivo
tho Serbians from Hill No. 1,050 in
the Cerna river region which was
captured yesterday. The war offico
announces that these attacks failed
with heavy losses.
"During tho day of November 26 an
attack in which the Zouaves took a
brilliant part, co-operating with Nub
ian troops in the regin northeast of
Monastir, made us masters of Hill'
1,050. In spite of his efforts, tho en
emy did not succeed in dislodging us
from this Important position which he
had strongly fortlfed. Four counter
attacks by Germano-Bulgarian forces
were successively repulsed by our
troops who inflicted tsangulnary loss
es on tho enemy."
oo
Building laboerrs at Denver, Col.,
have recolvod a second increase of 25
cents a day since January 1.
TWO ZEPPELINS '
BROUGHT DOWN
Crews of Both Airships Perish
in Raid on English
Coast.
MANY GIANTS LOST
Five Destroyed in Three Latest
Attacks Civilians Lose
Lives in Raids.
London, Nov. 28, 12:20 p. m. Two
Zeppelins which raided the northeast
coast and the north midland counties
during the night were brought down
and destroyed by British airmen and
it is understood the crews of both air
ships perished. This makes a total of
seven German airships destroyed in
England In the present year, while
six have been brought down in other
fields of operations.
The two months of immunity which
Great Britain had had from hostile
aerial raids led many persons to be
lieve the Germans would not risk any
more airships in attacks which, while
causing numerous casualties among
civilians and damage to private projjr
jjr.tjv werosaid- in England to.-hnvS
gained no military advantage for
them. The authorities, regarding the
protection of London as fairly com
plete, continued their work, however,
with the object of rendering other
parts of the country safe. Tho success
of the air patrols this morning has
given the greatest satisfaction here.
Official reports do not say how
many airships crossed the coast, but
apparently they were bombarded so
severely by anti-aircraft guns as well
as being attacked by airplanes, that
they were unable to do much damage.
Lights were turned out in all the
towns in the districts effected as soon
as reports of the approach of airships
were announced and tho commanders
of the Zeppelins apparently had diffi
culty in locating themselves. A num
ber of bombs wore dropped, although
no reports of damage in any towns
have been received thus far.
Zeppelin Falls In fjlamea.
One Zeppelin discharged her cargo
of explosives in Yorkshire and Dur
ham. She was attacked by a single
airplane and fell in flames off the
Durham coast.
Anothor got as far as the North
Midland counties and likewise drop
ped bombs. She was attacked by air
planes and guns and apparently dam
aged but offected repairs aftor reach
ing tho Norfolk coast and started for
home at high speed and at a high
altitude. Naval airplanes wero await
ing her and with the aid of an armed
trawler brought her down before she
had gone many miles.
Great crowds, attracted to the sea
coast by the firing, watched the
Zeppelins as they descended in
flames.
Ono woman was killed and six
teen persons weer injured in tho Zep
pelin raid. The airships dropped 100
bombs.
London, Nov. 28. 11:16 a. m. Two
Zeppelins were brought down In Mon
day night's raid on the northeast
coast of England. The crews of both
airships perished.
The destruction of the airships was
announced in an official communica
tion issued by tho war office.
Both Zeppelins were brought down
in flames into the sea after being at
tacked by airplanes. One of them was
destroyed while nine miles out at
sea on her return trip.
The war office announced that al
though full reports of the damage and
casualties Inflicted by the Zeppelins
has not been received thiH morning,
they were believed to have been
slight
The official account of the raid, Is
sued this morning, says:
"A number of hostile airships ap
proached the northeast coast of Eng
land between ton and eleven o'clock
last night. Bombs were dropped at
I various places in Yorkshire and Dur
ham. The damage is believed to bo
slight.
"One airship, attacked by airplanes
of the Royal Flying Corps, was
brought down in flames Into the sea
off the coast of Durham. Another
airship crossed into the north mid
land counties and dropped bombs at
various places. On her return Jour
ney she wbb repeatedly attacked by
airplanes of tho Royal Flying corps
and guns. She appears to have been
damaged, for tho last part of the jour
ney was made at very slow speed. She
was unable to reach tho coast beforo
day was breaking. Near the Norfolk
coast she apparently succeeded in ef
fecting repairs and wqb proceeding
Geri. Gonzales Leaves For , I
Chihuahua With Men and I
Munitions to Aid Trevino I
east at high speed and at an alti
tude of over 8,000 feet when she was
attacked nine miles out at sea by four
machines of the Royal Naval Air
service and an armed trawler and was
brought down in flames at 6:45 a. m.
"Full reports of the casualties and
damage have not yet been received,
but they are believed to be slight."
Five Destroyed In Three Attacks.
The destruction of the two Zeppe
lins makes a total of five of the giant
dirigibles In the three latest attacks
by German airmen on British towns.
On September 13th a squadron of
Zeppelins raided the eastern counties
of England with London, according to
the British official statement, their
apparent objective. Ono of the air
ships was brought down in flames
close to London.
On September 23rd twelve Zeppe
lins again attempted to reach London
and this time two were victims of the
British anti-aircraft guns. The crew
of one airship perished and the crew
of the other, consisting of twenty
two men, was captured. The British
war offico stated that thirty persons
'were killed and 110 injured as a re
sult'of the bombB dropped by the raid
ers on this occasion.
On November 18th Petrograd re
ported that Russian troops near Pinsk
on the eastern battle line brought
down a large eppelin and captured
tho crew of sixteen.
Tho first Zeppelin to meet with dis
aster in the English raids was the
L-15, which was forced down in an
attack on London on March 3 and
captured in the Thames estuary. Tho
airship while in tow of a British pa
trol boat, sank.
Prior to this on January 31, the
L-19 was seen in the North sea in a
sinking condition after a raid on Eng
land and is believed to have been
damaged by the English coast bat
teries. After one of tho early raids on Eng
land on February 8, 1915, the Zeppe
lin L-3 was lost In a snowstorm and
forced to land In Denmark, where she
I was burned by her crew, fourteen of
j whom were interned by the Danish
authorities.
RAID IS MADE
AT LOWESTOFT
Berlin Reports Another At
tack Close to English Coast
Capture Patrol Vessel
and Crew.
London, Nov. 28, 12:50 p. m. An of
ficial German statement given out
hero today says German naval forces
have made another raid close to the
English coast, near Lowestoft,' captur
ing a vessel.
The German statement Is quoted in
an official British communication is
sued this afternoon.
The Berlin statement given out fol
lows: "The admiralty announces that a
portion of our naval forces again exe
cuted a raid, going close to tho Eng
lish coast. Not far from Lowestoft
an enemy patrol vessel and its crow
were captured. Some neutral steam
ers also wore stopped and searched
but as they carried no contraband
they were released. Our naval forces
returned without seeing any trace of
the enemy."
The British admiralty appends tho
following:
"A report has been received that
tho armed trawler Nerval was on duty
off tho cast coast on the night of
November 26 and is missing. This
presumably is the vessol referred to."
This is the second German naral
raid in tho last week. On the night
of November 23. Gernian destroyers
bombarded tho town of Ramsgate
near the mouth of tho Thames. Tho
German admiralty nnnounced that a
British outpost vessel had been sunk
by gunfire, but this was denied offi
cially by London.
Lowestoft is on tho North sea,
about 75 miles northeast of Ramsgate.
oo
In 1898 hoisting engineers at Bos
ton, Mass., wero paid . $15 for a 54
hour week. They now earn ?27.50 a
week of 41 hours.
1
High Carranza Officials Admit Possibility That
Villa Is in Possession, of City-U. S. Officials I
Hear Repeated Claims That Trevino
Evacuated Chikahua.
Juarez, Mexico, Nov. 2S. Reinforce- j
ments for General Trevino are being
assembled in Suaz station, 32 jpiles
north of Chihuahua City and will be
led toward the city by General Fran
cisco Gonzales, commander of .the
Juarez brigade, who left here early
today with a train loaded with men
and "munitions, it was offiically an
nounced at military headquarters.
On the train carrying General Gon
zales and his command, which approx
imated 400 men, was taken a quantity
of ammunition. It is known that am
munition sent to Trevino at the out
break of the battle was stolen from
the train near Gallego station, north
of Chihuahua City. The escort accom
panying today's shipment is expected
to prevent a recurrence of tho theft.
Trevino is admitted by the Carranza
officials here to be short of ammuni
tion. Trevino Evacuates Chihuahua.
Washington, Nov. 28. Array offi
cials on the border advised the war
department today that they had heard
repeated rumors that General Trevino,
the Carranza commander at Chihuahua
City, had evacuated that city before
the continued attack of Villa bandits.
Tho war department, however, had no
official confirmation and was Inclined
to doubt It.
Message Sent. Washington.
El Paso, Texas, Nov. 28. United
States government officials here claim
to have received positive information
regarding the reported evacuation of
Chihuahua City by General Jacinto B.
Trevino, the Carranza commander, be
cause of a shortage of ammunition.
These officials have sent an official
report to Washington regarding this
report, which, they say, has not yet
been fully confirmed.
Information regarding the evacua
tion of Chihuahua City was obtained
through Lauro Corillo, brother of Mrs.
Jacinto B. Trevino, ono high govern
ment official said. Corillo, it was
stated, had received word to inform
Mrs. Trovino her husband was safe.
Mrs. Trevino denied she or her broth
er had received any word from Gen
eral Trovino since Saturday.
Carranza Consul Bravo and Inspect
or of Carranza consulates Andres Gar
cia denied any such message had
been received from the south. They
insisted no news had been available
since Saturday except that which
came to the Associated Press from
Chihuahua City by way oHOjinaga and
Marfa, Texas.
Tho telegraph line from OJlnaga to
Chihuahua City is believed to have
been repaired by the military for use
after the Mexican Central and federal
lines were cut Saturday.
Compelled to Divide Forces.
A report received this afternoon
from a credited but unnamed source
stated General Trevino had been com
pelled to divide his forces, sending
part south to Tapaloapa and part
north toward Sauz. Government offi
cials claimed to have received partial
confirmation of this report from one
of General Gonzales staff officers.
Villa Left in Control.
Juarez, Mexico, Nov. 28. A persist
ent report Is current here that Tre
vino has evacuated Chihuahua City
and is returning eastward, leaving,
Villa and his bandits in control of the
city. The report is said to have been '
brought by courier to Terrazas station
and telegraphed here.
Admit Villa Holds Chihuahua. '
High Carranza officials here say I
they have nothing definite regarding:
the reported retirement of General ,
Trevino, but admit the possibility that'
Villa holds Chihuahua City. i
Tho message on which the report)
is said to hnvo been based is declared
to have been received by General Gon
zales. Early today General Gonzales, with
a command from the Juarez garrison,
loft for Sauz station to make a per
sonal Investigation and, if possiblo,
learn the fato of the de facto troops
in Chihuahua City,
Ono report current here, though nr
confirmed, is that General Trevino was ,
able to take only his cavalry out of
Chihuahua City, being forced to aban-
don his artillery to Villa and his in- H
fantry deserting to the bandit leader.
The report, which was said to have 'M
been received by courier from Tapa
loaps, south of Chihuahua City, to Ter
razas and thence by telegraph to 'H
Jaurez. was to the effect that Gen- '
eral Trevino had exhausted his amniu-
nltion supply and had been forced to '
retire. Villa, the same report said, Jl
was in possession of the city and Tre
cino had been forced to abandon the
artillery. Many of Trevino's infantry
forces had gone over to Villa, accord
I ing to the report.
ATTACK OJDIGH . I
Housewives' League and City !
Officials Begin Fight in New
York City.
Letters to Be Sent to All Gov
ernors, Mayors and Presi- :
dent Wilson.
New York, Nov. 2S. The attack on
high food prices begun here by the
Housewives' League and city officials,
spread today throughout New York jH
state. The promoters declared the
movement promised to become nation
wide. iH
The local campaign now centers
upon eggs and, beginning today, rec- 'H
ommends a two weeks' boycott.
Cornelius F. Burns, mayor of Troy
and president of the Mayor's Associa
tion of the state, announced ho would
send letters to the mayors of every jH
city in New York state, to Presidont
Wilson and to the governors of all
states, requesting the issuance of
proclamations urging people to ab- Jl
stain from using eggs other than for
the aged, sick, infirm and children
for a period of two weeks. fl
The Housewives' League of St. Paul.
Minnesota, and the Women's City club
of Chicago yesterday adopted resolu
tions declaring for a boycott on eggs.
The Motion Picture Exhibitor's As
sociation has volunteered the use of ,fl
every moving picture theater in the,. iM
city to carry out the campaign. 'M
Governor Whitman was in confer
enco with George W. Perkins today
regarding remedies which the state
could undertake. Mr. Perkins is chair
man of the mayor's committee on sup-
Fighting Soaring Prices.
Chicago, Nov. 2S. Headed by the IH
Women's City club and tho Chicago IH
Political Equality leaguo, members of IH
several civic organizations and worn
en's clubs today were co-operating In
an attempt to check soaring food fH
The Women's City club and the Chi
cago Political Equality leaguo are ccn
terlng their efforts on an egg boycott JH
(Members of the former have pledged
themselves to refrain from the use of
eggs as long as the present high prices
continue and members of the latter
have adopted a resolution to boycott jl
eggs for four weeks and to appoint a ,
committee to Investigate tho possibil- .H
ity of legislative action.
City Council Adopts Measures.
In addition five measures designed
to curb the advancing cost of living
wero Introduced in the city council.
Those ndopted includod one directing
the mayor to appoint nine aldermen to
Investigate the advisability of estab
llshing a municipal coal and ood
vnrri Those referred to committees
ncludlngoSe calling on the city health H
inmmssloner and the chief of police
?nS Te city ordinance prohibiting H
"forestalHug and re-grading,' especial
Jy as to keeping, eggs In cold storage
for more than ton months.
