Chickasha Dab
Express
Newt Bj Wire Daily
from the United Press
Association.
rv
"en will Find All the
Local News Every Day
in the Daily Express.
iiJL
VOLUME SEVENTEEN.
CHICKASHA. OKLAHOMA, TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 28, 1916.
NUMBER 2R1 t
BOND ISSUE
OF MILLION
PROPOSED
Advorates of Hard Surface Roads lor
Grady County Win Fight at
Meeting
WILL START PETITION
FOR SPECIAL ELECTION
Musi Get 15 Percent of Voters to Sicn;
Estimated Cost is $7,400
Per Mile
conio first, .opposing tho bond issue
C. V. Harper of Hush Springs, said
h was a believer In hard surface roads
hut ho was convinced that the bond
Issue would not carry and ho thought
dirt roads were the thing to go after.
"We ought to ask the legislature to le
galize bond Issues for dirt roads," snld
he. 0. M. Lents took a similar view.
J. L. Hart argued strongly for hard
I surface roads. If. E, Martin thought
the roads should he graded and drain
ed now, leaving the hard surfacing till
later. Mr. Kerns, from the south part
of the county, was in favor of the
bond.s apposing spending any money
for dirt roads. Dr. Gordon stated that
to meet Interest and create a sinking
fund for a bond issue of $1,000,000, a
tax levy of about four mills or $t per
$1000 of property valuation would be
required.
2 ZEPPELINS
PLUNGEINTO
SEA AFIRE
Effective Attack on Air Devils Made by
British Aeroplanes After Germans'
Task Was Concluded
NEW WELLS RESULT OF
BEING SUNK
IN GRADY
Considerable Interest in Oil and Gas
Possibilities and Many New
Leases Filed
ANOTHER
URGLARY
REPORTED
To start petitions at once, request
ing the county commissioners to call
an election for the purpoe of voting
upon a county bond issue of $1,000,000
for hard surface roads, was the decis
ion readied at the meeting of good
roads boosters at the city hall Monday
evening.
Rush Springs had the largest delega
tion at the meeting and several other
townships in the southern part of the
county w-.-re represented. All the
southern contingent were stroncr lor
hardurfaoe roads and with the aid ofj Chickasha during the past few weeks
several citizens of like sentiments ; have hitherto made only small hauls,
ftoin Chickasha, they won their fight confining themselves to rifling trous
by a vote of 20 to 11. Barker Kiddle er9 p0ckets, pilfering convenitnet and
of Hush Springs made the motion and
Two Purses Containing $143 in Bills
Taken From Home of 0. G. Gray '
on Colorado
While burglars who have infested
ANOTHER AIR RAID
ON LONDON TODAY
London Reports American Vessel Sunk
and Teuton Submarine Sinks Enemy
Vessel and Captures Crew
r
By United Press.
London, Nov. 28. Two German Zo
pelins that were making a raid on the
eastern counties were brought down
and sunk today, it was officially an
nounced this morning.
Graphic details of the British sue-
Increased activity has been shown
In the past ten. days in the filing of oil
and gas leases in the county clerk's
office, most of the leases being on
properties In tho wist and south part
of tho county. Lindsay, Bradley, Bai
ley and Illanehai'd furnish the great
est, interest, in this m-w Grady county
Industry and active work on the part
of least two bij; companies is reported.
The I'nclo Sam company' and the
Santa Fe oil and Gas company having
acquired their block of land before
beginning operations, the lea-en which
a it now being being filed rrs acquit -
fd largely by local parties
BATTLE IS
IN DOUBT
Villista Victory at Chihuahua Would Change
Flans for Return From Border
uf Militia
REPORTED EVACUATION
OF TOWN BY TREVINO
Defactu Reinforcements Rushed to Car
raneista General by Juarez Comman
der, General Gonzalez
Uy United Tress.
KI Paso.' Tex., Nov. 2S. Without def
inite news this morning concerning
The Santa I t,H! ""'come of tho three days fighting
Fe company is putting in rics for their
new locations near Bailey, tho equip
ment having fcjen unloaded on Satur
day at MaVlow. Wells- will lie drilled
cess in repelling the twenty-seventh in section
and 11 -2."). the hitler
French, commander of the home forc
es. The first Zeppelin to enter tho
German air raid since the first of thebcJ"S (lllfi th ot Vlf' ll0ll! 'ht'h
year were announced, by General i ' " "6 --
Property prices are advancing in the
neighborhood of tho wells. One far-
country over Durham was pursued by nif,r Ported that he had beer, offered
an aeroplane as it turned homeward, 'VMO for thirty-five acres of land hut
f . Ki.i i nr,.
Not. until the nlrshln was over tho sea utm uul
off Durham did the British aviator
at Chihuahua City, United Slates au
thorities hero are verging upon the
conviction that Villa has raptured the
city.
Carraneista officers admit that they
received a message signed "Trevino,
admitting the evacuation of tho city
but they. Bay the message Is a forgery.
It. was seconded by Henry Mileur. Pre
vious to the adoption of this motion,
the proposal of C. M. Lents of Ninne
I;ah that the legislature be asked to
change the law eo that it would be
possible to vote bonds for dirt roads
wa's voted down.
easily disposed of articles of wearing
sucocd in bringing it down. The ves-
apparel and taking purses with small j se! leU inio tho water with a burst of
name.
amounts, they succeeded in making a
greater haul in the last case that has I
been reported to the authorities.
The home of O. G. Gray on Colorado;
The second Zeppelin entered over
tho north midlands, dropping bombs
in several places. As she turned
street was entered during the night """" ' " i" ....
, . . ,,.. i and anti-aircraft guns peppered her In
and ill ine morning ivies, vjiay aim m:i
Under the motion of Mr. Riddle, the j JegKio M . u , Iound j her course through the air. Finally
thr.t they had been robbed of $141! in
cold cash and a new pair of shoes.
Their pocket books had been opened
and (-.mall purses containing tue bills
were extracted.
Tracks about one of the windows
Indicate that two men were implicat
ed in the robbery and that they had
tramped about for some tfme suppos
edly watching the occupants of the
house.
A BUSY OFFICIAL
County Sschool Superintendent
Shepard left today for Pocasset where
he will address a parent-teachers asso
ciation meeting tonight and tomorrow
night will speak at Freeman. Before
starting on his journey today the
county superintendent had visited
thirty-four schools in November.
THANKSGIVING SERMON
Rev. Byron Hester will preaen a
Thanksgiving sermon at Cement
Thursday evening.
mtra! Mi
chairman of the meeting, Dr. U. J. Gor
don, of Ninnekah, appointed Messrs.
Riddle, Mileur and J. E. Schow as
members of t'ie oop- i:itPo to oreppri;
petitioiis an;' circulate the same. It
was brought out that 15 per cent of
the voters, must sign the petitions be
fore an flection can ho called, that 63
per cent, of the voters must participate
in the election and that a majority of
those voting is required to carry the
election.
At tho request of a committee ap
pointed at a previous meeting, County
Engineer E. E. Colby made a report
giving an estimate on the cost of hard
surfacing roads. He stated that his
figures were based upon a careful
study of ,T7 miles of road north and
south through the county. ITe esti
mated that grading would average
$-tO per mile, bridges $435 per mile,
limestone $."01f per mife and that
hauling, spreading, engineer's fees
and other items would brin.c the en
tire cost up to $7400 per mile. For the
12." miles of road contemplated, in
cluding one north and south and three
east and west the approximate cost
would be $!)2'),00(. Mr. Colby stated
that he had been liberal in his esti
mates for some of the items and he
thought the amount mentioned would
be adequate.
At the opening of the meeting Dr.
Gordon outlined the situation, stating
that, if county-bonds were to be voted,
it could only be for hard surface roads.
Henry Mileur immediately took the
floor and made a spirited speech in
favor of bonds and hard-surface roads.
C. M. Hollingsworth, of Chickasha,
said it was no use to talk about such
roads at. the present time. "I am for
good roads," he said, "but it is foolish
to talk about a million dollar bond t;
sue. The people of Chickasha will not
consent to it and if it were voted it
would impose the greatest hardship
upon the owners of farms. I believe
wo ought to build first class sand and ' eries car is on the Rock Island track
clay roads, such as were advocated at this morning with a shipment ot fish
the Ozark Trails convention, going to i for distribution in Oklahoma. They
as little expense as possible." jare Mississippi riv.-r game fish, and
Air. Riddle of Rush Springs said he i were taken from that river at Belle"
was satis'ied the people of Grady j vue, la. The fish are transported in
county would vote the bonds even if five gallon cans about two-thirds full
some of the voters in Chickasha op- j of water, and the varieties include
posed them. "If there ever -was a time bass, croppie, cat, sun and rock bass,
for us to vote bonds it is now," said The croppie and bass are from five to
he. "The Ozark Trail is only a sido six inches in length, with about fifty
issue compared with our problem of - to tho can. , The can fish are of an av
getting roads that will benefit the en-jerage of three inches with about one
tire county." m j hundred to the can. while the sun and
Henry Dubose. took the view that , rock bass are from two to four inches
macadam was the best kind of road to ' long. The fish are not fed while en
Imild. "Let us build good roads and route, but are kept alive on oxygen
mm
the great vessel was bit and made
headway with difficulty, later plunging
into the sea.
Liner is Sunk.
Py United Press.
London, Nov. 28. The liner City of
Birmingham, ot 7500 tons displace
ment, was sunk, it was reported today.
x Germany Reports Raid. ,
By United Presa.
Berlin, Nov. 28. German naval raid
ers near Lowestoft sunk an enemy
vessel and captured the crew, accord
ing to official announcement.
Teutons Take, Town.
By United Press.
Berlin, Nov. 2S. Giurgiue, a town
38 miles from Bucharest, was captur
ed by Gen. Mackensen, it was official
ly announced today.
Four Are Injured.
By United Press..
London, Nov. 2S. Four persons
were injured when a German aero
plane dropped bombs over London at
noon today.
American Steamer Sunk.
By United Prsss. ,
London, Nov. 28.-The American
steamer Chemung was sunk, it was re
ported today.
May Halt Militia Plans.
By United Press.
The fighting at Chihuahua is consid-
County Commissioner J. ... Corzino 1 M'1 that it may hnlt present
returned Saturday night from a"trip r's f0 ne returning homo r sever-
BOY HELD
ON CHARGE
OF FORGERY
Charged with passing a forged died
for $10 on W. C. Billiard, Clevo LIU 0
residing near tho water works, wa i ar
rested last night and was this morn
itig h'ntified by Mr. Billiard us the
man wl o, endorsing tho chock as John
I'harr, received $8.7."i in clothing ami
tli." balance in change.
Tin; name of Nut Brunei', a farmer
!'. "''ft of town, was signed ui the
check.
W.O.W.TO
ENTERTAIN
THE LADIES
Pleasant Social Catering Tomorrow Night
Followed by Big Event on
December 25
OKLA. CITY
COMING
THURSDAY
Great Game Definitely Assured by Resfor
ation of Old Pip and Confidencg
to Chickasha Eleven
THURSDAY'S GAME TO
DECIDE CHAMPIONSHIP
Special Train of Oklahoma City Rooters
Coming to Boost Their Home Team
Into First Place
ny ladies of tho Circle in Chicka-
sua, win uo enterttuueu on Thursday
i eveiiii. by tho local W. O. W. camp
with an oyster mipper given directly
to Marlow, Bailey, Santa Fe and
Langston. Near the latter place tho
Langston Oil and Gas company put up
a rig on Saturday. A driller from Ft.
Smith is in charge.
OD TITLE
;hool
EMISES
County Superintendent Shepard Points Out
Grave Abuses Which Have Been
Practiced in Past
GO
FOR?
PR
County Attorney and Mrs. James IT.
Venable are ' expected to return to
Chickasha from Flora, Miss., either
Saturday or Monday.
al more regiments of militia, It was artl'r l"iS. ot tho lodge at 7:30.
learned today from war
sources.
department
That titles to the lands upon which
county district schools are built shall
be straightened out during the next
year is causing the exertion of much
energy on the part of the county su
perintendent of public schools, M. II.
Shepard.
The degree into which carelessness
and negligence have entered fn this
matter is surprising to those who have
given it but little thought. In past
years mny a spontaneously public
spirited individual, inspired with en
thusiasm and a sudden resolve to do
something for the advancement of ed
ucation in his district, has donated a
piece of land on which to build a
school house. The people of the dis-
tru.t 1,m.ii,.t0iv nin.,i ,,n,.n ti.n When they call for th'eir warrant at
construction of' tho building wlthout ; end of tho month. I wish you would
Send Reinforcements.
3y United Press.
El Paso, Tex., Nov. 2S. With about
400 men General Gonzales, commander
of the de facto forces at Juarez., start
ed towards Chihuahua City before
davii today on trains. 1
The officers remaining in Juarez de
clared Gonzales was rushing reinforce
ments to Trevino, admitting that Chi
huahua City was hard pressed by
Villa.
Officers at tho Mexican consulate
here have not been infoimed ot the
evacuation of Chihuahua City by the
Carraneistas. According to United
States agents, a message signed by
Trevino stated that ho had left the
city to join Murgia. Following this
junction it was expected that Trevino
would return to drive Villa out. This
message came by courier and a wire
message was received by a relative of
Trevino.
Before the troop train in command
of Uonxales pulled out of Juarez today
to so to the aid of Trevino scores of
cases of cartridges, were loaded onto
tho cars.
Villa in City.
By United Press.
El Paso, Nov. 28. Villa is in pos
session of Chihuahua City and the
Carraneista garrison has evacuated the
city, fleeing southward, according to
reports obtained by the United States
authorities here today.
LOCAL STREAMS AND PONDS
RESTOCKED WITH GAME FISH
A United States department of fish-
delivering the assignment in Oklaho
ma. The men have every homo com
first securing the title. In the course
of a few years the values of lands ad
vanced, the donor may have died and.
being without title, the district school
boards have been forced to purchaso
the lands on which their little school
houses were built at a price greatly in
advance of that for which it could have
been purchased originally.
Mr. Shepard has ad.lif -sscd the
following self-explanatory letter to
over three hundred school officials in
tho various districts:
"I find that a great -number of our
then tho Ozark Trail can come or not
as the promoters please." said he. J.
E. Schow was for the bonds, saying,
"We might just as well build perma
nent roads while we are at it." Dr.
Tye thought good dirt roads should
which is pumped through rubber hose
into the cans. The oxygen is manu
factured on the car by means of a fur
nace which also supplies steam heat
to the living compartment of the car.
J. P. Foley, with five assistants, is
fort on the car, including their private school districts do not lia .e a clear
chef. A large ice box contains their title to their school ground. My of
perishable food, and has a storing ca-1 fjee has no record whatever concern
pacity of 2500 pounds of ice. A built-jjng the title to school properties. We
in box which holds a ton of coal opens arc having considerable tnmbio in
into the boiler room and kitchenette, j ponio districts now over this very
Upper and lower berths, linen closets, thing.
lockers and an office roonj fitted up j "Some man has promised to give a
with desk, typewriter and stationery, j pi:: t of ground to tho district, but did
make an ideal portable home. not give a deed, the property changes
These men spend about r.ine months hands, and then the trouble conies,
of the year on the road, and are now probably he is not friendly with the
to deliver their last assign-1 school, or wants to charge an enor-
ask them if they have made their re
ports, if they havo not, you insist on
their being made at once.
"Please do not issue the warrant of
your laVt month of school until you
have a written statement from me or
dering same to be issued."
The social entertainment for Thanks
giving night will commence at eight
o'clock.
This will bo followed by a great
event In Woodmen circles to b cele
brated on December 12, on (lit, occa
sion of the official visit to Chickasha
ot Sovereign Commander Frazier of
Omaha, Nebraska, nephew of William
Frazier of Chickasha. On this occa
sion Woodmen from all parts of I he
state will nssemblo here Including the
manager for tho' state and many of
the head camp officers
FAMOUS READER WILL
COME TO CHICKASHA
A big treat is in store for the peo
ple of Chickasha. On Wednesday, De
cember 6, Doctor Southwlck, the emi
nent Shakespearian reader, will be at
the college auditorium in the second
number of tho lyceum course. Mr.
Southwlck is from the Emerson
School of Oratory and is an artist In
his line.
There are three important reasons
why you can't afford to miss this num
ber. First, you may never again in
your life have an opportunity to hear
Doctor Southwlck. He Is a man of na-
tioanl reputation and is at his best in
the program he is to present here.
Second, his program will be so inter
esting and entertaining that you will
enjoy it as you have not enjoyed any- J
thing ina long while. So you must at
tend for your own pleasure. Third,
the members of the Young Women's
Christian association aro bringing this
lyceum course to this city this season
at a great deal of expense and trouble
to themselves. Out of a spirit of sup
port and loyalty to them corno and en
courage them l ntneir worn, run
birds with one stone; help the Y. W.
C. A. and havo a pleasant evening.
The Turkey Day game for Chicka
sha High schqol will be played at Uni
versity park with Oklahoma City. The
winner of this game will thereby bo
declared champion of the Central
Conference, so the Chickasha lads
have taken a decided umouiit of pep
since their, defeat at Enid lust Friday
and are determined to win out In this
game.
Dope a Bum Steer,
The two teams soeni to be about
evenly matched. At their meeting in
their first game of the season at Ok
lahoma City the score stood 13 to 13.
Bin. 0 then Shawnee beat, the City 17
to 7. Chickasha won from Shawnee
V) to 10. Oklahoma City beat Enid 42
t 7 and the latter took Chickasha-':
down 13 to 0. However, that seemed
to bo an off day for Chickasha and
shows that not much dependence can
bo placed on the dope line.
Strong Practice Game.
Yesterday's praitkn revealed that
the O. II. S. b'.ys will be in the game
much stronger than last Friday and
with much more pep. With a dry
field they ought to hp. able to pull off
some of their old time speed and team
work which had been the main factor
In Hovcral victories this season and
the lack of which was the main cause
of defeat lust Friday.
Captain Griffith will probably take
his own plnce In the line as his ab
sence was sorely felt at Enid. Hayes
is now working at bis place at half.
Tho lattor'B greatest weakness is fum
bling and if he can overcome this by
Thursday C. II. S. supporters will wel
come the change.
The game Thursday will be called
at 3:30. Admission will bo fifty cents
for adults and thirty-five cents for
children.
Oklahoma City is bringing a special
train of rooters.
WOULD FORCE TWP.
TO RE-OPEN DITCH
UNION THANKSGIVING SERVICE;
DR. HESTER PREACHES SERMON
ready
ment. They left Bellevue last Friday mous price for the land, knowing that
afternoon and as this Is their last de-; the building i there and the district
livery thev will, on the completion of ta perfectly helpless.
their task, return to Washington, D. "I know von are busj-. but I want to 1 C Tola,
C. to remain until March. Amcug be of all tho service 'possible to the church.
Amcug be of all tho service -possible to the
Chickasha people receiving fish from good people of this courty, and I will
this car are Geo. Dashner. Sunnybrook asi you to answer the question in full.
Farm, W. A. Hopkins and R. K. Woot- "Some of our teachers are not mak
ten, Jr. ing their report t; this office on time.
All the preachers in the city will
unite in a great Union Thanksgiving
service, Thursday at 10:30. a. m. at
the First Baptist church. The pro
fram will be in tho hands of the pas
tor, Dt John A. Wray. Tho music
will also bo furnished by tho choir
of tie Ilaptist church. The program
will be as follows:
Invocation, Rev. Robert L. Ownhy,
presiding elder of the Methodist
church.
Scripture lesson, Rev. John A. Wray,
pastor of the First Baptist church.
Thanksgiving prayer, Rev. Edward
pastor of tho Presbyterian
Resiling of the pisidert's procla
mation. Rev. Wilber II. Amack, pas
tor of the Congregational church.
Thanksgiving .scrujou, Rev. Byron
Hester, pastor of the First Christian
church.
Benediction, Per. Lawrence L. Co
hen, Jr., pastor ot the Epworth Meth
odist church, South.
Thoso in cha-.'tjo of the service prom
ise that tho program will not run over
one hour. It will open promptly at
10:30, and the congregation will be dis
missed at 31:30. The other pastors of
tho city who ara expected to be pres
ent on the platform will be Rev. II. P.
Haley, pastor of the Second Baptist
church, and Rev. J. J. Bearden. pastor
ot tue Second Methodist church. In
fact, all o tho preachers and people
of Chickasha are urged to come and
make this a great service. , Let the
members of the various churches try
to be present and bring as many of
their townsmen with them as possible.
A case of some Interest to Verden
is scheduled to conio up in the dis
trict court today whereby the right of
R. A. Lyle, whose farm is on the cor
ner of a section hi Shirley township,
to force the township to reopen a ditch
and maintain a bridge on his land will
be determined
Lyle sues the Shirley township
board whose case Is defended by Allen
K. Swan, the plaintiff being repre
sented by Riddle and Hammerly.
The land is so situated that after
heavy rains a stream of water flows
so as to make a cut in front of tho
farmer's home. Seven or eight years
ago Lyle cut a ditch around the sec
tion line in frort of the house and
across the road and, it is asserted by
the township board, agreed to main
tain a bridge across it in case the
board would not order the dUch to be
filled. The board charges that Lyle
did not keep his contract and ordered
the ditch reopened. The farmer now
seeks to force the township board to
reopen the ditch and to maintain tho
bridge.
WEATHER FORECAST
For Oklahoma.
Tonight and Wedn-sday, fair,
warmer.
Local Temperature.
Maximum, t.7; minimum. 2'1.
