THE BARRE DMILY TIMES
VOL. XX NO. 218.
UAKHE, VERMONT, TUESD
AY, N
OVKMHER 28, 1916.
PRICE, ONE CENT.
TWO AIRSHIPS.
BROUGHT DOWN
INFLAMES
The Crews of Both German
Raiders Perished as Ma
chines Fell into the Sea
After Making Attack on
on Northeastern Coast of
England Late Last Night
WALL STREET FOR
PEACE DIPLOMATS
BRITISH AIRPLANES
WERE EFFECTIVE
Amount of Damage Done by
the Raiders Has Not Been
Completely . Ascertained,
but It Is Believed to Have
Been Comparatively Small
London, Xov. 28. Two Zeppelins wore
brought down during the raid on the
northeast coast of England last night
and the crews of both airships perished,
according to the statement of the war
ollice to-day. lioth the Zeppelins were
brought down in flames into the sea aft
er being attacked by airplanes. One was
destroyed while nine miles out at sea on
the return trip.
The war office announced that al
though full reports of the damage and
casualties inflicted by the airships- had
not been received this morning, it was
believed to have been Might.
The destruction of two Zeppelins in
Monday night's raid makes a total of
five giant dirigibles destroyed in the
three latest raids by German airmen on
British towns.
Would Have President Wilson Call Con
ference of Neutrals Hope
for Armistice.
Washington, Nov. 28. Wall street is
"anxious" for the war to end, in the
opinion of prominent diplomat here, yes
terday. ".lust a touch of timidity," over se
curities for vast loans, plus a growing
decrease in munitions contracts, is said
to be responsible for this increasing
financial desire for pence.
3he financiers are said to tear not
measurably yet, but siillicicntly to stir
them that their loans may le allected
if Kurope tries to pile up more credits
while destroying more lives and prop
erty. This spirit was called the "inspiration"
for recent peace talk, notably in New
iork, bv a high ofhciHl yesterday.
According to this official, those holding
the view that "Wall street is showing
restiveneas,"- claimed to see encourage
ment in the recent statement in an inter
view of the earl of Derby, British under
secretary of war, that England was will
ing to listen to Germany's peace terms.
The present peace agitation, which
diplomats emphasized, has its source in
financial circles solely, and will include, ac
cording to tentative plans, an appeal to
President V llson, possibly in co-opera
tion with European neutruls, to call a
conference, not primarily to discuss
peace, but merely to define the objects
for which each side in the great war is
fighting.
1 he proposals do not include sugges
tion of an armistice, but diplomats here
believe if tho suggestion is carried through
to the point of a conference of neutrals.
an armistice would be entirely within
possibility's bounds.
GIANT BLOWS
' ON RUMANIA
The Town of Giurgiu on the
Danube Has Capit
ulated '
ALSO CURTEA DE ARES
NORTH OF CAPITAL
LONDON BOMBARDED
BY LONE AIRPLANE
Six Bombs Were Dropped This Morning
and Four Persons Were Injured,
Although Material Damage
Was Slight.
London, Xov. 28. Flying at a great
height, a German airplane this morning
passed over London and dropped six
bombs on the capital, according to an
official statement issued this afternoon.
Four persons were injured but only
slight material damage was caused, the
statement gays.
CANADA MAY RESERVE
MEN FOR THE FARMS
Essential Industries to Have First Call
for Exemption From Mili
tary Service.
Ottawa, Out., Nov. 28. How Canada
may deal with unenlieted men' who re
main in the country was indicated yes
terday by R. H. Bennett, chairman of
the national service. Agriculture and
essential industries will hove the first
call on man power, he said, and non-essential
industries must be prevented
from absorbing an undue proportion of
such power. Mr. Bennett asserted that
he deems it the duty of his board to co
operate with the military authorities to
assist recruiting.
New Operations Started by
Foes Reported by
Berlin
Bcrliir by wireless, Xov. 28. Austro
German forces in western Rumania are
continuing with success their drive to
ward Bucharest. The war ollice an
nounces that new operations have been
begun and that additional ground has
been gained by the invaders. The Bul
garians have captured the important
Danube town of Giurgiu on the railroad
south of Bucharest. The Rumanian
town of Curtea l)e Ares, south of Cam
pulung, also has been captured.
the following: "A report has been re
ceived that the armed trawler Xorval,
on duty off the east coast on the night.
of Nov. 211, is mining. J his Is pre
sumably the vessel referred to,"
AMERICAN BANKS WARNED
The forces invading western Rumania
are now within less than 40 miles of
Bucharest. The town of Giurgiu, aero
the Danube from the Bulgarian fortress
of rustchuk. is 37 miles south df the Ru-
mnnian capital. The attack on Buchar
est from the north is also developing
rapidly. The town of Curtea Do Arges
is 80 miles northwest of the city and 20
miles southwest of Camnulung, in the vi
cinity of which there has been heavy
fighting for several weeks.
Rumanian Situation Improving.
London. Xov. 28. The military situa
tion in Rumania is improving for the
Rumanians, Recording to a dispatch re-
'reived to-day bv the Wireless Press from
Bucharest via Rome. Field Marshall Voii
Mackensen is said to be making no ma
terial progress. The Rumanian retreat,
it is added, is procei'ding in perfect order
on a settled front.
CANADA FACES COAL FAMINE.
VILLA MOVING NORTHWARD.
He is Also Reported to Have Captured
Chihuahua City.
El Paso, Tex., Xov. 28. Villa is mov
ing northward from Chihuahua City, ac
cording to a dispatch from General Tre
vino received last night by General Gon
zales at Juarez, who was ordered to con
centrate his forces at Juarez.
A private message coining over the
same route adds that not only is Villa
proceeding Xorth, but he is in control of
Chihuahua City, which General Trcvino
is supposed to have abandoned proceed
ing southward. General Trevino, ac
cording to this private report, said that
after effecting a junction with General
Murguia he would return and recapture
Chihuahua.
The message from General Trevino was
sent in code trom Suaz by way of Ojin
aga, opposite Presidio, Tex., where it was
relayed. It said, according to Carranza
ml" officials, that Villa was moving north
and oruerca me oeiacnea garrisons aiong
this section of the frontier and on the
Mexico northwestern line, to concen
trate in Juarez. The message, they add
ed, Fpike of this as the fifth day of
Villa's attacks.
The countenances of the civil and mili
tary men in the Juarez headquarters Ja.,t
right showed clearly the seriousness of
the news.
"Xo, I think not," was the answer
given by a Carranza representative of
high rank, when asked whether the Villa
crisis was yet over.
Telegraphic communication was still
open with Suaz, about 26 miles above
Chihuahua, the military men said. They
professed considerable anxiety about the
Carranza garrison there. General Mur
guia, with his large forces, have been ex
I pected daily to come to the rescue of the
besieged city.
Official Order to Strike To-day in Hands
of Miners.
Winnipeg, Man., Xov. 28. With the
official order to strike yesterday in the
hands of the coal miners of eastern Brit
ish Columbia and Alberta, western Can
ada was face to face with one of the
most far-reaching strikes in its history.
The coal supply is. already short be
cause of a dearth of cars throughout the
summer and much suffering is predicted.
ASK SUPREME
COURT RULE ON
MILITIA OATH
SERBIANS REPULSED
FOUR ATTACKS IN
CERNA REGION
Review of Lower Court Decision Sought
By Alexander Emerson and A.
P. Lowell of Boston.
Washington, Xov. 28. Supreme court
review of lower court decisions constru
ing the new national defense act to hold
state guardsmen in service for federal
purposes despite their failures or re
fusal to take the new oath was asked to
day by Alexander Emerson, and A. I
Lowell of Boston. Final ruling is sought
to settle disputed questions of service
obligations of state troops.
French War Office Declares That the
Attackers Sustained Heavy Losses
in Effort to Re-capture
Hill 1050.
Paris, Xov. 28. German and Bulgari
an troops. otr-thc Macedonia front made
four counter-attacks last night in an ef-1
fort to drive the Serbians from hill lOflO j
in the Cerna river region which was
captured yesterday. The war office an
nounces that these attacks failed, with
heavy Iosbcs.
Not to Tie Up Their Funds in Foreign
Securities.
Washington, I). C, Xov. 28. American
bankers were warned by the federal re
serve board yesterday to. avoid linking
up their funds by purchasing treasury
bills of foreign governments involving
long term obligations. While snlleally
disclaiming "any intention of reflecting
upon the financial stability of any na
tion," the board advised all investors to
proceed with caution and formally an
nounced to member banks of the federal
serve system that with the liquid
funds which should be available to Amer
ican merchants, manufacturers and
farmers in danger of being absorbed for
other purposes, it des not regard it in
the interest of the country at this time
that they invest in foreign treasury bills
of this character. : .
The statement is regarded in official
circle as one of the most important dec
larations by the board since its creation.
Officials would not discim the question
for publication, but some of them in
formally interpreted the warning as the
reserve board's answer to the recent pro
posal of J. P. Morgan & CX.j British fis
cal agents in this country, to have Amer
ican bankers accept British treasury bills
of an indefinite total issue, secured by
gold reserve held in Ottawa. Such loans
would be for 00 days, With the privilege
of renewal for five other 00-day periods.
IL P. Davison of the Morgan firm, was
in Washington recently and conferred
with President WiIon and some mem
bers of the reserve board. It was said
later that he sought to. have banks of
the reserve system authorized to buy
British treasury bills as if they were
bills of exchange to cover commercial
transactions.
Danger from further importation of
large amounts of gold, the board says in
its statement, will arise only in case the
gold is permitted to become the basis of
undesirable loan expansions and of infla
tion. Emphasis is laid upon the neces
sity for caution in putting money into
investments whicn are short term in
name but which "either by contract or
through force of circuirtBtances may in
the aggregate have to be renewed until
normal conditions return."
PLANNED VISIT,
CAME A CORPSE
Barton
SICK ON BEAR MEAT.
Trichnosis
After Dozen Years Seldon
Stebbins Was Looking
Forward to Reunion
IN VERMONT.HOME
WITH RELATIVES
He Was Killed by Locomo
tive at Anyox, B. C. Fu
neral To-day at Lowell
VERMONT BUSINESS TROUBLES.
ENTENTE FORCES REPULSED.
TIIOM URGES U. S.
LICENSE FOR R. R.
Insists Federal Incorporation Would Be
Constitutional and Solve
Many Problems.
Washington, Nov. 28. The joint con
gressional committee investigating trans
portation problems resumed its sessions
MARK FALLS TO LOW
EST POINT OF WAR
Depreciation in New York Market from
Normal of 24 Cents to Less
' Than 17Ji Cents.
Xew York, Xov. 28. Exchange on Ger
many yesterday fell to the lowest rate
recorded since the war began. Demand
bills on Berlin were quoted at 68 cents,
taking four 'marks as the unit of ex
change. This implies a depreciation of
the German mark in this market to a
little less than 17 cents, as against its
normal value of about. 24 cents.
Made Attack Northeast of Monastir,
Serbia Reports.
Sofia, Monday, via London, Tuesday,
Xov. 28. The repulse of attacks by en
tente troops on the front northeast of
Monastir in southern Serbia is reported
by the war office.
BULGARIANS CROSS
DANUBE THRICE
Sofia War Office Also Announces the Re
pulse of Russo-Rumanian Assaults
in Dobrudja.
Sofia, Monday, via London, Tuesday,
Xov. 28. Bulgarian troops have effected
three more crossings of the Danube, all
behind the Austro-German front in
Three Vermont Men, Including One from
Barre, File Papers.
Rutland, Xov. 28. Three petitions in
bankruptcy were filed yesterday in the
office in this city of Clerk F. S. Piatt of
the United States court, the petitioners
being as follows:
Alex R. Morgan of Barre, granite cut-,
ter; liabilities, $31 1.53 ; assets, 30
claimed exempt.
Victor Jarvis of St. Albans, railroad
trainman; liabilities, 1207.75; assets
$200, claimed exempt.
W. J. McLaughlin of St. Albans, train
man; liabilities, 185; assets, none.
Federal Judge Harlail B. Howe of St.
Johnsbnry has appelated Fred A. Field
of this city temporary receiver for the
Clark McMatcr "iano company with
stores in this city and Montpelier, which
were recently closed on mortgage fore
closure of the Clement National bank
of Rutland, the concern later going into
bankruptcy.
Lowell, Xov. 28. The body of Seldon
Stebbins of Anyox, B. C, w'ho was acci
dentally killed by a locomotive, reached
the home of his father, A. I. Stebbins, in
this town last night, and the funeral was
held this afternoon, Rev. W. A. Warner
of Barton officiating.
The young man was 33 years of age
and had been away from home for 12
years. He was planning to come home
Christmas. The details of the accident
arc not known, except that the locomo
tive passed over the upper part of his
body, crushing the chin, neck and chest.
He was employed as a telephone lineman.
Besides his father he leaves three
brothers, two sisters and his stepmother.
F. E. KIMBALL'S FUNERAL
Was Held at Newbury Yesterday After
noon with Large Attendance.
Newbury, Xov. 28. The funeral of
Frank E. Kimball took place yesterday
afternoon at the family residence a
was attended by a large number. Rev.
F. K. Ellsworth! pastor of the Congrega
tional church, officiated. Burial was in
the Newbury cemetery, the bearers be
ing Nathan Nutter of Woodsville, X. IL,
A. X. Blandin of Bath, X. IL, Samuel
Hutchins and Nelson Bailey of Wells
River, Charles Doming of Montpelier and
Warren Bailey of Newbury.
Frank E. Kimball, a son of Daniel P.
and Melissa Keves Kimball, was born
People Contracted
and are Very 111
Orleans, Nov. 28. Three very 'serious
cases of the rare disease, trichinosis, the
germs of which were heretofore known to
exist only in swine and transmitted to
man' hy eating pork, not thoroughly
cooked, have developed in this vicinity,
hut instead of it being caused by eat
ing pork it was transmitted by eating
the meat of a bear killed a short tune
ago by Mr. Baldwin of Baldwin's Mill,
P. Q., one of the victims., Itoth Mr. and
Mrs. Baldwin are seriously ill as well as
their son-in-law, L. K. Heath of this
place, and Mrs. Heath was taken ill with
the same disease on Sunday.
Trichinosis is caused by eating meat
which is filled with trichinosis worms
thus getting them into the bowels and
filially into the muscles in which stage
the disease is incurable. In the last forty-five
years there have been, in the
United Mutes, only nine hundred cases,
or two hundred cases each year, that be
ing one case to two million people per
year. Twenty-five per cent of the cases
are fatal. These cases should be a warn
ing to all eating bear meat cooked rare
as the danger is lessened if the meat
is thoroughly cooked. ,
Mr.' and Mrs. Death are prominent
people in the place and have the sym
pathy of the entire community.
VERMONT HIGH FLYERS MET.
Banquet of Aero Club of State Held at
, Burlington.
Burlington, Nov. 28. The first annual
meeting of the Aero Club of Vermont,
which was organized at Camp Governor
Gates July 6, 1I1KJ, was held in the main
dining room of the Hotel Vermont last
evening, following a bountiful banquet
which was attended by about 70, includ
ing members of the club and invited
guests, 14 places in the state being rep
resented. When the business meeting
had been adjourned, during which meet
ing the officers elected at the time of or
ganization were re-elected, James Hart
ness of Springfield, president of the as
sociation, rose as toastniaster to intro
duce several speakers who held the un
divided interest of their listeners as they
I talked on aeronautics. The meeting was
, jone of the most enthusiastic which has
nQ f ..; . ,
wen Jiciu in wus cuy lor some lime S"U
there is no doubt but that the club will
accomplish results in Vermont along pio
neer lines in aeronautics.
The officers re-elected at the business
meeting were as follows: President
'James Hartness of Springfield; vice-prcs-
iident, Adjutant-General Lee S. Tillotson
of St. Albans; treasurer, Herbert R. R(4)
erts of Xorthfield; secretary, James V.
, laylor of Burlington; members of gov
MADE TARGET
OF HIS HEART
Romeo Scampini, 18, Drew
Circle on His Shirt and
Then Fired ,
WHILE COMPANION,
AGHAST, LOOKED ON
Shooting Took rv
V
? in Club
Rooms V y To-
y.-s
T ni 111,11 ; TTai-nrhill V If nnrf ,I,U'"B raiu, mrinuui Vilnius I.V,irs
died ..MMntofct Nov. 2.1 ,,'f 'pneumonia. I ( tn&On, Maior Wallace Batchelder
In 1806 the Kimball moved to Newbury, Bn 7".?" if"
purchasing a large farm, known as Mm- ?( Craftsbiiry, Adjutant-General Lee
&u f.oAu a-iiapa Aft- i::mh.H ki . Tillotson of Montpelier. tol. Ira L.
TO RESUME LAW.
Charles E. Hughes Going Back Into His
Old Firm in New York.
Lakeport, N. J., Xov. 28. Charles K.
Hughes announced here last night that
on January first he would resume the
practice of law as a member of the Xew
York City law firm of Rounds, Sohurman
fc Dwight, No. 00 Broadway. His son,
Charles E. Hughes, jr., also will enter the
firm, it was reported.
In lOOfi, when Mr. Hughes was nomi
his boyhood. He attended Xewbury sem
inary and St. Johnsbnry academy. He
married Mis Emma Clark of Janesville,
Wis., in 1887.
Mr, Kimball was a member of the Ma
sonic fraternity. He wa president of
the Wells River Savings bank and direc
tor of the National Bank of Newbury.
For many years he was in the lumber
business. He was president of Tenney
Memorial library and had been repre
sentative from this town.
i
MONTPELIER
Funeral of Michael D. Eelley Held at St.
Augustine's Church.
Funeral services for Michael D. Kel
ley, whose death occurred Saturday aft
ernoon at his home in Middlesex, were
held at 10 o'clock this forenoon at St.
Augustine's church, the rector, Rev. P. J.
Long, officiating. Burial was made in the
Catholic cemetery.
Reeves of Xorthfield. W. T. Scofield of
Burlington, Redfield Proctor of Proctor,
Clarke C. Fitts of Brattleboro, and the
president and secretary.
S. S. Russell of ; St. Albans, claims
agent, and G. W. Groom, assistant su
a member of the same law firm, but its
titl at that time was Hughes, Rounds
and Shurman. Wit Mr. liughes again
in the firm, its new name, it was an
nounced, will be Hughes, Rounds, Nclrtir
man and Dwight.
Associated with Mr. Hughes and his
son will be Arthur Kounus. i.eorge
V Kchnrman. Richard E. Dwiirht. Wal-
wesieur nununis. i.ie crossings were tpr F cartcr, Raymond M. Lowes, Mar
nated for governor of New York, he was i perintendent of the Central Vermont
p . . . :i ....... ......... in V.n i t. in.Auvr
made from the Bulgarian fortresses of
Rahovo, Lempalanka and Vidia. This
! announcement was made bv the war of
fice, which also reports the repulse of
Russo-Rumanian attacks in Dobrudja.
CAMPAIGN GIVER APPEALS.
CAPTURE OF HILL 1,050.
Serbians Give French Part of the Credit
of Success.
Saloniki, via London, Xov. 28. The of
ficial communication from Serbian head
quarters issued yesterday reads:
"Yesterday the brave French Zouaves,
co-operating with our troops, undertook
President of Railroad Goes to Supreme
Court Over Decision.
Washington, Xov. 28. Milton H.
Smith, president of the Louisville it
Nashville railway, appealed yesterday to
the supreme court from the local court's
u.-iumg mat ne muM. answer me inter- f .n-eat strategic imnnrtance Th .
state commerce commission's inquiries I tacks were crowned with success and we
about participation of his road in cam-! carried the bill bv assault. It was ,1...
paign contributions The investigation j fended by picked 'German troops chaus-
ims ucrn iiaiieu penning me outcome of sers of the miard who Jrn.l ,r,lr f
me court proceedings.
tin J. Keogh. ir., Augustus L. Richards
and Harvey L. Stowell.
a series ot attacks on lull l.or.o, which is j i r Warner of Bennington. X. L. Paine
of Bennington.
Articles were also filed by the Under
bill Cemetery association. Inc., without
capital stock. The subscribers are C. H.
Havden and Mrs. E- S. Whitcomb of Riv
erside, C E. Aver, F. S. .Tacobson. F. J.
NEW VERMONT CORPORATIONS.
A. S. Paine, Inc., of Bennington and Un
derbill Cemetery Association.
Articles of association were filed to
day with the secretary of state by the
A." S. Paine, Inc., with capital stock of
ii in .l. :;,,,! l ,.mA t.n 1 . .,.a ...1
' 4' ti. linirton yesterday afternoon
t im. ...,. ..v yY7T, evening attending the first annual meet
to manufacture wooden articles and deal eenmg nt , . ...,.
in woo,! and lumber. The incorporators "g of th.- Aero t ub of ermont, which
. - . i nrrum7iH last summer.
are a. s. raine ot ."sonn Mcnninawn. 1 "
railway system, were in the city to-day
on business.
A Maiden, Mass., paper prints the fol
lowing itm: J'Mrs. Helen Walsh an
nounces the engagement of her daugh
ter, Helena Armitage Walsh, to Robert
H. Montgomery." Mr. Montgomery is a
well known Montpelier young man.
Arthur Perkins, who is employed in
Rutland, arrived in the city yesterday to
spend a week with his parents, Mr. and
Mrs. Joseph Perkins of Ridge street.
Mr. and Mrs. Mitchell Travernia, who
were married in the city a week ago,
have returned from a wedding trip to
Montreal, and are residing on Prospect
street.
Mrs. ,T. B. Dillon of Main street left
this forenoon for Bristol, where she will 'Lean, Miss Jessie McLean, Mr. and Mr,
TALK OF THE TOWN
Mrs. Clementine Covell of Xorthfield
was among the shoppers in the city to
day. Mrs. J. E. MeCaskill has returned from
a visit of several days with relatives
in Burlington.
A. C. Templeton of Randolph returned
to his home last evening after a busi
ness visit in the city.
Mrs. Annie Mciiowan of Jefferson
street has gone to Hanover, N. H., where
she will pass the winter with relatives.
C. A. Premo returned Friday night
with a 200-pound buck from Woodbury
mountain, where he had been hunting
for three days.
Fred Frediani left this morning for
Sherbrooke, P. Q., where he was for
merly employed. Mr. Frediani expects to
be absent several days.
Frank G. How land and Roscoe Lynde
returned this, morning from Burlington,
where they attended the annual banquet
of the Vermont Aero club. j
William Richardson of Washington
was a business visitor in the city to-day. I"..
nr. d;i,. ..! i-A. .!. :..r. Other
.ill. imi uaufi iraiirn iiic i uy iii-iiiiui.
for Boston to pass the holiday with relatives.
Thomas Forbes resumed his duties in
the Hub restaurant, after passing sev
eral davs in Xew Haven, Conn., where
he attended the Harvard-Yale football
game Saturday.
Mrs. George Bean and son returned
this morning to their home in Claremont,
X. H., after visiting at the home of Mr.
and Mrs. Clayton Jones of Perry street
over the week end.
A party consisting of Mrs. H. A. Mc-
Romeo Scampini, 18-year-old son of
Mr. and Mrs. Angelo Scampini of Berlin
street, was found by the police in the
rooms of the Italian Pleasure club this
morning at 1:40 o'clock with a bullet
through his heart. By his side was a 38
calibre Colt revolver, automatic action,
with 10 Btcel-jaeketed shells in the cham
ber, one of which had been eipToded.
The circumstances point to suicide, but
a secret inquest which convened before
Judge G. H. Dale of Waterbury in the
court room at city hall this afternoon is
expected to establish the nature of the
shooting beyond a doubt. The boy's body
was removed to the Perry 4 Noonan un
dertaking establishment in Depot square,
where Drs. B. H. Stone and C. F. Whit
ney of the state laboratory in Burlington
performed an autopsy just before noon.
Dr. Stone, the state pathologist, and
his assistant, Dr. Whitney, were assisted
in the autopsy bv Dr. J. W. Stewart, the
health officer, and Dr. J. A. Wark, city
physician. The post-mortem examina
tion was concluded near noon and 'when
the Burlington doctors returned this aft
ernoon they carripd with them the or
gans. The bullet which caused the
youth's death was found intact, just out
side the flesh in his back. After pene
trating the heart, it carried on an angle
between the ninth and tenth ribs and
lodged in a coagulation of blood. Al
though the bullet brought up against the
inside shirt in the back, it did not pene
trate the garment.
The Italian Pleasure club is located on
the second floor of the Scampini building
on Xorth Main street. It was around
30 o'clock when Xatale Fontana, a
companion of the dead boy, rushed into
the street for help. A hort way up the
street he met Angelo Marchetti, Guy
Vitagliano and Charles Bartelli, to whom
he told the story of the shooting. Vita
gliano and BartcUl hastened to the club
while XIarchetti and voung Fontana went
to the Morse block and aroused Dr. J. A."
Wark. The physician, before leaving his
office, notified police headquarters and
H)fficer John S. Murley and Deputy Chief
Harry Gamble soon joined him at the
club rooms. Their cursory examination
convinced them that Scampini had died
instantly. Before the body was removed.
Grand Juror William Wishart had been
called and in the absence of Dr. J. W.
Stewart, city health officer, Charles 01-
liver, a member of the board of health,
was asked to view the body. The au
thorities seemed agreed that it was a,
case of self-destruction.
Close friends of the lad as well as his
family join in the opinion that Scampini
killed himself and this belief is amply
borne out by the story of Fontana, who
was detained at police headquarters as a
material witness, and others who saw the
young fellow during the evening. Among
those who knew the lad intimately there
s the Unshaken belief that his rash act
may be ascribed to mental aberration
brought on bv despondency. , Early in
March he sustained a broken leg and
injuries while serving as a derrick
helper at the plant of Comolli i. Co. He
was a patient at the City hospital for
three months, and although he had been
able to be about town, he never fully re
covered from the accident. After his
death it developed that he had been re
ceiving treatment for his injured limb,
although a sense of deference to the feel
ings of his family, it is believed, led him.
to conceal his real condition.
Act Probably Premeditated.
That the act was premeditated there
can be little doubt. The boy proceeded
to arrange for his own end with unusual
coolness. Apparently he had the revol
ver in his possession for two days prior
that he had borrowed the gun from Frits
Jackson, a local dealer in firearms, for
emergencies. Early last evening Scam-
C0NTRACTOR MOVES.
Files Attachment Based on Southern New
England .Railroad Project.
Springfield, Mass., Xov. 28. Attach
ments were filed in the registry of deeds
of Hampden county yesterday morning
by John M. Marseh of Chicago, amount
ing to $6,000,000. One attachment is
against the Southern Xew England Rail-
hold the hill at all costs.
"Several enemy counter attacks with inobinaon and W. Scott Xay of Under
the object of retaking the lost positions j, ji
without considering the losses involved
spend a week with relatives. i i.eorge .McLean ot l.ramteville passed
t i Koltv umlirr nf ihr ' throiurh the citv en route to Cambridge.
Montpelier board of trade, was in Bur- j Mass., where they will spend several 'to his death as he told his companion
f . 1 I 111 A 1 . . .J. 41 Tl. T . ' "
ntl lut umvr iriruufu it? i imiiKsivmjf rere!,
na the guet of friends and relative?.
Libortv street last evemnir the la-:', 1A. . , :
Miss Florence Sesrum has cone to(lies of the Maccabees irathercd for a . 7 V, " : I fr ,1
Bradford, where .he will be employed in j farewell party in honor of Mrs. Arthur
the law office of Senator D S. Conant. J. Cave of Kim street. Around forty w" eJ
, T ... .. ! i0-i.ii,i,i t t i .. . rant that Scampini drew the gun trom
Fred L. Laird was m Marsh held yes- were present for the good-time gathering : . . ij , TT ,.
. k Hfi, L.i !i.;i. .1 :his coat and began loading it. He re-
.1. . rl .... Ilia frnnOfl that tne house and taL-inn tliprA - iii,i..h thut n-tut nn f . . ...
twd barns on the property owned by him able. One of the pleasant features came
and Fred A. Howland had been destroyed when Mrs. Cave was presented a hand-
Thirty tons ot nay in me two ome silk umbrella and a box of fancy
were repulsed. The hill remained defi
nitely in our hands."
yesterday, with Alfred r. mora, coun-, road corporation and the other against
el for the railway executives advisory the Southern Xew England Railroad cor
committee, again a witness. He had com-iporation, Central Vermont and Oram!
pleted his direct testimony and was Trunk railways. The attachments are
ready to be cross-examined. This was ; for $3,000,000 "each.
the fourth day of Mr. Thorn's appearance.
He was questioned at length by Chair- ,
man Jiewlands with particular reference
to federal incorporation. Railroad man
agers of the country, be said, are virtual
ly agreed although there is some dissent
that it is the best solution for many
of their problems. He had no doubt, he
mid, of the constitutionality of a nation
al incorporation law w hich would be com
pulsory and not effective.
'"I have no doubt." he said, "that Con
gress can pass a law forbidding a rail
road company to engage in interstate
commerce unless it is licensed or chart-red
by the federal government."
Sir. Marseh was the contractor em
ployed to build the line from Providence,
R. I., to Palmer, Mass., work on which
was discontinued.
The Thereks Held.
GERMANS CAPTURED
AN ARMED TRAWLER
! bv fire
1 barns was destroyed and the house was j handkerchiefs, Mrs. Douglas Roben act
In Infill ruin. t inir AS snolf mnn for th Annnr Mr
Buried By Bags of Grain. j A,j,.rman j. r. Galleher of the Demo-1 fa ve made a feeling response. After-
St. Albans Xov. 28. William Peters of 'cratic city committee has received from ward dainty refreshments were served.
Welden street an employe of the St. Al- Secretary Tumulty a letter of apprecia- !Mr. and Mrs. Cave expect to leave the
ibana Grain Co.. was injured about 7:30 tion for the telegram ot congratulations .c,ty next week for 1 orrey. Ha., where
his reason for carrying the gun, that he
might need it before long. Fontana and
Burke remarked upon their companion's
strange actions during the remainder of
the evening, but many of his remarks
were made, it seemed, in a jesting mood.
After the show the boys walked down
Xorth Main street and Scampini and
Fontana turned into the Pleasure club.
There they found other members of the
o'clock this morning when in attempting sent to ITesideni oorow vt uson rn- ;tncy will pass trie winter. .Mr. tave owns ',uh b(t g; th(, hr ,va, iate moat 0f
to get some bags from a tier the entire,day evening of last week just prered- ; a considerable piece of realty in the pert"- tno, asSeml,ed there were on the point
pile ot ZiHl, weighing aoout HKl pounds ing t ne ceicurauun. incim,. . , msina inn n m- rmiwit prmrs eon- of jeavjnjr for jlome when Scampini and
iney tailed It a fatrol Vessel inatji-arh, was dislodged and Mr. Peters was ably be placed m ine leinocraue cny genial the tamiiy win reme mere per- , hi rml,anj,m arrived. In a serious tone.
They Captured in Naval Raid on buried under them. After about IS nun- . committee rooms. manently. Scampini bade farewell to those who
English Coast Near Lowestoft uie work hig fellow employes bad the j Mrs. Carrie C. Peck left last evening) Ag ihe Pt proceed of the recent Goose were leaving and said thev would not
, . bags removed. Dr. E. A. Hyatt, the com- ! for Omaha, Neb., where she plans to Y;rr).n.Su,ug Holler dance held for the see him again. Thev dismissed his words
London, Xov. 28. An official German pany physician, who was summoned, spend the winter with relatives. benefit of the civics department of the ' as though thev were sort of a mock fare-
statemrnt, given out here today, says; found that the man's legs were strained The discharge meeting in the case of ;j.rr( Woman's club, the sum of 28-.4."r well and left Fontana alone with the
the German naval forces have made an- but apparently he was not seriously in-j Frank Lgae of Moretown was held to- ,rnw OVPr to the ladies yesterday : lad It was sometime after midnight
other raid close to the English coast jurcd. He wa taken to his home. ,day before Referee in Bankruptcy W. X. j0T ,he committee which had the dance in ' that Fontana began to importune his
near Lowestoft, capturing a vessel. jTh-riault. 1 charge. The committee wait,! until this 1 companion to go home. The pair had
The German statement is quoted in an j Misa Harriet E. More and Leon I-j Rwrts from Heaton hospital this naie ,n prder to allow for the presents- idled away an hour in playing a friendly
official British communication as fol-' Hutchins. both tf East Barre. were mar-'morning were to the effect that George tiim of all bills airainst thm ft,. ' m ,,f curds known as "mmmv ." and
Boston, Xov. 28. After arraignment I lows: "The admiralty announces that ried Monday evening hy Rev. .lames W. Kidder, who has been ill with pneu- iamount iut turned over renr..ri. th . ),n v.mtana finally insisted on leavintr
before a federal commissioner here yes- ! portion of our naval forces again ex-iRamaire. pastor of the East Rarre Con- monia for ten days, is making a satis- I balance over and alxiv ll ,t,,h Scanmini sturcested that thev
terday, Edward Therek was held for a jecuted a raid, going close to the English gregational church, at his home, 9 Camp , factory recovery. IXeedles to say, it w ill go fr toward s" for a walk. After walking up Xorth
hearing on Dee, 11 on a charge of em- coast. Xot far from Lowestoft an ene-Street. j On account of the high cost of living, 'furthering the work of the civics depart- Main street, they turned in their tracks
beuling J20.291 in cash and securities my patrol vesel and crew were captured. I After the regular meeting of the Kcl try the Eureka, Barre, for your Thanks-1 mcnt, and the ladies are greatly pleased and started toward the north end again,
from the National Shawmut bank of this Some neutral steamers were also stopped ' Men in Clan Gordon ball this evening, giving dinner; only 5V. Ted Theriault, jat the contribution. A letter of thanks When they reached the Sampini block,
city. His wife. Mrs. Charlotte Therck. and searched, but as they carried no the committee in charge of arrangement l"rop. lis to be prepared by them. Another date Kontana again deferred to his com pan -
was held on a rharge of aiding and abet- contraband they were released. Our na- for the annua! bamiuet of the Meadow I Thomas Guare, an employe of the J. Uet apart by thecivim Hmartmcnt is IVe. ions desire to ston in the club. One in-
ting him. Roth were sent to jail in de-jval forces returned without seeing any Brook Golf club ill assemble to com-jH. VoIh.Mm store submitted to a minor 2. when the Tufta college glee club will tide the club. Scampini, according to tha
laim oi oonos. wi at ji,mxi in Ihenks trace ot the enemy. plete the decorations for to morrow even-'operation y
cae and at f5,000 for the woman.
To this, the Brith admiralty appends ing's festivities.
lestenfay at Heaton hospital come to Barre for a conirrt. probaldv to
and is progressing satisfactorily. be held in the Spaulding assembly hall.
(Continued on fifth page.)
