"Mr. Jiggs"
The Irrcprcssiblc Jiggs, Has His
Troubles This Morning
fUdjmonft fmeS-iBistratd]
Fox's Comics
In The Timcs-Dispat<h, Amuse
Young and Old Every Day
66th YEAR
VOLVMR M
> [.>1111:11 2i:t
RICHMOND, VA., TUESDAY, AUGUST 1, 1916.?FOURTEEN PAGES.
Sf? ?RAIN.
PRICE, TWO CENTS.
HUGHES AHACKS
' RECORD OF WILSON
ADMINISTRATION
.DeaJings With Mexico He
Calls Confused Chapter
6f Blunders.
CAUSE MISAPPREHENSION
AND DEEP RESENTMENT
National Security Demands There
Shall Be No Paltering With
American Rights.
UNRESERVEDLY FOR V. S.
..Arropts Republican Nomination for
Pros Idem in Kpoccli at Car
no?ie Hall, Now York.
NKW YORK, .July 31.?Charles K.
Hughes to-night outlined In his speech
of acceptance t>io issues ttpon which he
will conduct his campaign for the presi
dency.
Mr. Hughes assailed the ndminlstra
tion for the course it has pursued with
r'fi reiice to Mexico, maintenance of
'Afnf-rl'-an rights during the European;
'*'ar, preparedness and other preat o ics
tions of the day. He declared for a
nen policy of "firmness and cunslst
or.cy" toward Mexico. for "the unflinch
ing maintenance of nil American rights
?'ii land and .'???a. and for "adequate na
' ;.l defense; adequate protection on
?M'Oti. rmr western and east< rn coasts."
"We denounce all plots and con
spiracies iti the Interest ?>f any foreign,
nation." Mr. liuKhes said. "Ctterly in
tolerable in the use of*our soil f^r alien
intrigues. Uv< ry American tr ist tmre
servedlv condemn them. and support
every effort for their suppression." -
The nomine*, nssailed the adtninist ra -
tlon for "iti dlrertioi: of diplomatic !?;
ter-'ourse" from the b* Kinrlns. lei I.'.r
Ing that where there should have been
er.r-spfcuous s'rer.ath and expertn< <s
tIn re had liocn weakn-ss atld Irexpert
it<:y He cite'! S.tn T'oinii iro ;<s nil in
stance where appointments had cone to
"Meservintc Democrats," and to the f ??! -
tn? to V;e-p Ambassador Derrick at his
poi-t i: Paris after the war had st.*ir;?-d
a* "a la;:.*ntable sacrifice of Interna
tional repute."
m i;r> dominant si:\m:
OK NATIONAL I MTV
Mr Hughes said In part:
Jjfwttor Harding. yicmb'rs of the
notification committee and fellow
citizens:
This occasion is more than a mere ;
ceremony of notification. We are not
here to Indulge In formal expressions, i
We come to stite in a plain and direct j
manner our t'ait'r.. our purpose and our
?pledge This representative gathering
Is a happy augury. It means the
>-!rc:iuth of reunion. It means that the
party of Lincoln is restored, alert, ef
fective It means the unity of a com
mon perception of paramount national
???-?_??? -- It means that we are neither
tit eived nor benumbed by abnormal 1
conditions. A'e know that we are in a 1
cr:u.-;'l period, perhaps more critical'
^tha.: any period since the Civil War.
We peed a dominant sense of national
unity: the t xercisc of our best con
structive lowers; the vigor and re
miiircefalnc-ss >f a f|ulckened America. 1
We desire that the Republican party
a m ? at Ill-era! party shall be the j
npcue} of national achievement, the
orer.n of thu effective expression of
dominant Americanism. What do I
mean by that? 1 mean America, con
scious of power, awake to obligation,
erect in self-respect, prepared for
every emergency, devoted to the ideals i
of peace, instinct with the spirit of j
human brotherhood, safeguarding both !
individual opportunity and the public j
jinterest, maintaining a well-ordered 1
constitutional system, adapted to local
self-government without the sacrifice
of essential national authority, appre
ciating the necessity of stability, ex
pert knowledge and thorough organi
zation as tho indispensable conditions
of security and progress; a country
loved by its citizens with a patriotic. 1
fervor permitting no division in their |
allegiance and no rivals In their affec- j
tion?1 mean America first and America !
efficient. It is in this spirit that I re- j
spond to your summons. ^
DIPLOMATIC at'I'OIXTM 15NTS
come ix Fon citrricis.n ?
Our foreign relations have assumed j
grave importance In the past throe j
years. The conduct of diplomatic in- 1
tercosirae in in tho keeping of the ex- j
ecutive. It rests chiefly with him j
whether wo shall show competence or |
incompetence; whether the' national
honor shall be maintained; whether
our prestige and influence shall be
lowered or advanced. What is tho
record of the administration? The first i
duty of the executive was to command
the respect of the world by tho per
sonnel of our State- Department and
our representation abroad. No party
I exigency could excuse tho non-perform
ance of this obvious obligation. Still,
.fter making every allowance for cer
tain commendable appointments, it is t
apparent that this obligation was not
performed.
At !h<; very beginning of the present
ariininistration, where, in the direction
of diplomatic intercourse there should
have been conspicuous strength and
expertness, we had weakness and in
expertness. Instead of assuring re
spect, we invited distrust of our com
petence and speculation as to our ca
pacity for firmness and decision, thus
entailing many difficulties which other
wise easily could have been escaped.
Than, In numerous instances, notably
jn Latin-America, where such a courso
wan particularly roprohenslhle, and
whero we deslref to encourage the most
Vrlenrlly relations, men of long diplo
matic experience, whose knowledge
and training wero of especial value to
the oountry, wero rotired from the ser
vipe apparently . for no other reason
than to moot partisan demands in the
(Continued on Fifth Pago.) '
...
Gives Some Relief
From Heat IVaOe
Cool, Dry Air From Canadian
Northwest Sweeps Along
All of Northern U. S.
WASHINGTON. July 31.?A Ca
nadian high-pressure area. bringing
down cool. dry air from tlio Canadian
Not th west, swopi along the ia lioto
Northern United St.-it.cs (o-day, aid af
? forded some relief from ihe heat wave,
which has been the woVst In fifteen
jOilrs. Roughly, thn jiow hliTh press
ure area brought a drop in tempera
ture north of a 11m<* drawn flue west
Item New York. Below thi- line its
effects were lelt in some districts with
a change of n few decrees
"The "Bermuda High." which for the
j past few (lays has been sweeping up
; currents of hot. water-laden air over
| the whole or the continental United
States, showed signs to-day of having
pretty -well spent Itself, likewise the
high-pressure area, which brought re
lief to the Atlantic seaboard from Hurl
son Bay ovr the week-end. has I,,...,,
dissipated.
\Viaether Bureau officials said to-day
that while the Great Central sections
of the country had had the hottest
period since 1 !?0I. the Atlantic '?a
board hardly had been touched l.y real
summer. *
lion KST DAY (IK VIC A It
IX XIJW YOttK I |T1
| SEW YORK. July 31.?This was the
hottest day of the year In New Vork.
.The mercury roach***-! at 3 '30 I* \(
More than a .?? or?^ of persons were
: prostrated. Excessive hutniditv. which
(reached so. added to the suffering
throughout thf city.
The new heat wave will be short
lived. according to the local weather
forecaster, who declared this after
noon that relief is expected from
j thundcrshowers to-night. A drop in
temperature of from live to fifteen d?
I greos is predicted bv to-morrow.
l> " dealers to-d .y raised the|r prices.
J<??"tuurant and >-:?owners \\ er?> noti
fied that the ,,,
?rr''" '? "? '"Ml* |,er In. potttlds.
and timri ilh.
r.-t:,il i.rj<
v..r- -rn;.t| :l .. ... ,
M'CORMICK SEES WILSON
' oiif-r* With ?? ,...lljt|
ifM-t lulls |ur rjf?lo,.rjl||,. , ani
paiuii I atinmlt lee.
\V A S111 NG T< > N, July 31 -Van.;, tj.
MoCormivk, Democratic National Com
mittee 4 hairmun. conferred with Presl
,0"lfty on ,inal selections
for the Democratic campaign commit
ite. and on details of the special work
f ? . V1' States. .Mr. "Mo- j
Cormlck nfso t?lkM'Wt"h several Sena
tors. Representatives and Cabinet mem
bers.
The campaign committee will not he
announced for several days, hut Mr.
McCormlck Bald that Daniel C. Roner
who resigned last week as First As
!'S'"nI Postmaster-General. would have
harge of the orpanizatIon bureau at
the N?? w York headqdartere. and that
Senator Walsh. of Montana, would be
n cnarg,of tho iMmocrulIc hoadqlla,; |
ters in Chicauo. j
President Wilson to-day reiterated
t?onhurman \,cConnick hl" determlna- ?
ton to remain |n Washington until!
Congress adjourns. j
AID FOR FLOOD SUFFERERS
Mo,imp (,,?lml.tee Orders Inv?r?hle<
Mr port on A pproprln t Ion of
95-10,000.
WASHINGTON. July 31.-The House i
* tar> Affairs Committee to-day or-1
dered a favorable report of a resolu-'
tion appropriating J6-I0.000 for relief I
of flood sufferers in the South cauS i
bj the recent deluge in tropical storms !
Ihe resolution, drafted by the War'
I eparlment, will bo reported to the '
House on Wednesday, with a report
drafted by Representative Dent, of Ala
bama.
The resolution provides that the
money shall be spent by the Secretary
of War at his discretion in the flood
areas of North and South Carolina.
Georgia, Florida, Alabama and Mis
sissippi.
PLEADS FOR CASEMENT
Senntor Lndne Mnken Personal A p.
pen! Through ?Itrllixh
AmiiiiNHndor.
? ,
j A\ ASHINtiTON, July 31.?A personal
| hppeal l.n behalf of Roger Casement has
j been made by Senator Lodge, ranking i
j Republican member of the Senate For- ?
I eign Relations Committee, who opposed j
an Improper the Senate resolution re- |
j questing President Wilson to urge the !
J British government to extend clemency 1
to political offenders. it became
| known to-day that Senator Lodi?o had
made his appeal to Sir Cecil Sprlng
J Rice, who transmitted it to the British
Foreign Ofllce.
FRANCIS JOSEPH ILL
Rniperor of Austria Catches Severe
Colli While Inspecting
Troops.
LONDON. July 31.?Emperor Francis
Joseph of Austria caught a severe chill
while inspecting his troops, says a
Vienna dispatch, forwarded to London
hy the correspondent at The Hague of
? he Lxchnnge. Telegraph Company.
His Majesty is doscrihed as being
very 111.
HANKOW IN HANDS OF MOB
Great Quantities of Property IlciiiK
I)timed hy Revolutionary
Hands.
SAN FRANCISCO, July 31.?Hankow.
China, to-day was In the hands of a
revolutionary mot?, and great quanti
ties of property were being burned,
according to cable advices received
here by the Robert Dollar Steamship
Company from its Hankow ofllce. No
details were given.
_ Throtiffli 8enrlc? via Southern K/iilnnT^
ChA-rlotte. Spantanburs. Atlanta. Blrm
?lC- now 0i,en
GERMANY ENTERS THIRD YEAR
WITH ALL FORCES ON DEFENSIVE
r????
Fire Rages in Ruins
IVh ere Disastrous 1
Explosion Occurred\
Preparations Under li ay
jor Joint Inquiry to
Fix Blame for
Disaster.
N'L'U 'i >l:K. .July SI.?Kir* ;>roke out
to-night 1 n t J. ? ruins or. IMaok Tom
J.-lm'l. whore ti;<>i.?.tMroils an.muni
lion explosion of Sumlay morning c?n
c.ur red, and half the tiro department of
Jersey City aided by fire .tugs from
.?9,?k_. !i:ir\>or. fought the flamw
w hlfcfr ? rerilefed about th?J pier where
larg* quantities of shrapnel nnd high
explosiv* ;j were stor<"t. Exploding!
shells made an almost continuous can
nonade.
Tiii'-e officers of corporations doing I
V'.ihiaesc' on the island were under ai - I
i **st to-niuht, an! a warrant was out 1
l" r :: fourth. IVr r:.t ioiiv xvere under)
way at Jersey ?'!;> for a joint Federal, |
State, county ar.<i municipal investiga- ?
tion to tlx the blame for ilie disaster
whicti killed at least tlireo men. injured
i,i'0!>:: and caused approximately
t'OO.otiO property damage.
DKCI.AKIC FIH1-: OIUGT-VATKIJ
IN TWO FItKIMIT CtitS
The theory that the fire which caused
tie explosion started on a munition
t urge. tied up at the island, v :is com
bated late to-day by Robert S. Huds
peth, prosecutor for Hudson County,
and Theodore B. Johnson, president of
the Johnson Lighterage Company,
owner of the munition barge, lioth de
clared the tire originated in two Lehigh
valley railroad freight cars laden with
explosives.
Johnson, who was arrested on a war
rant charging manslaughter, as were
.Mhert M. Dickman. Black To.n agent
of the Lehigh Valley, and Alexander
I'avidson, supnrJnt^r.dent of the Na
tional Storage Company oenied ill re
sponsibility for the conflagration. He
intimated that the fire was of in
condlary origin.
Prosecutor Hudspeth corroborated
Johnson's story. He said Iij had ob
tained an alti'h'.vit from the commander
cf the tug Oviieva, which gave a ctfrn
prer.ensive story <-f the disaste
"According to the atlldavit and other
evidence." said the. prosecutor, "the lire
started two hours before the Johnson
barge was destroyed, and it was not
this barge that caused the great ex
plosion. The lire spread from freight
cars to warehouses and tho barge. The
capti\in of the Geneva was towing away
another ha rue. said to have been load
ed with n tremendously higif explosive,
acting on orders of a Lehigh Valley
ofiiclal. when the barge, which had
shown no sign of being afire, exploded.
This was the lirst explosion and the
oim that was most severe.
"Tho second great explosion occurred
when the. fire reached a number of
freight cars loaded with dynamite and
other explosives."
tlllAXTITIKS or FY 1'IiOSIVMS
pass Tiruoi;c;n .iioiisky city
Mr. Hudspeth declared fully four
fifths of the explosives shipped to tho
entente allies passed through Jersey
CI ly.
Late in the day a warrant was is
sued for arrest on a charge of man
slaughter of Kdward A. MacKenzio,
president of the National Storage Com
pany, whoso plant on Black Tom Is
land was destroyed. Plate glass insur
ance underwriters -voted at a meeting
here to-day to waive all tovhnicalities,
and to replace at once all windows
shattered by the explosions. It is esti
mated that the plate glass loss in Man
hattan. Brooklyn and New Jersey was
$1,000,000.
DAM AGIOS KKOM KXI'LOSION
AIM'OIITIOM;!) among victims
The damage from the. explosion was
apportioned to-day as follows:
Thirteen warehouses. National Stor
age 'Company, $7,000,000.
Forty thousand trtns of raw sugar,
$3.400,000. ,
Twenty-four thousand bnles of to
bacco, $1,*>00,000.
Other merchandise, $500,000.
?Ammunition In cars' and barges,
$;,, (, ! I r>,0 00.
Other barges and carg'>p.=, $200,000.1
ICllis Island, $7f>.O00.
Hrdio'-'s Island. $100,000.
I.t'liiu!! Valley Hailroad piers, etc.,
Al"!-ati Towing Company. $3.1,000.
Plate glass and other damage In
Ma:.hat tan. Brooklyn, Hoboken and
Jersey City, 31,000,000.
T-ital, $20,060,000.
The discovery to-day that many mu
nition boxes, hurled from exploding
barges and pet afloat when they sank,
were Htill drifting about the harbor,
caused great" nervousness a.mo'ig pilots
of harbor craft. It was as if the har
bor had been mined, and commanders
of ferryboats kept a careful lookout
for all floating objects.
Fire Commissioner Adamson issued
warning, saying that "great danger lies
in the possibility of careless handling
of explosives which have floated to
Manhattan island, and ar. still being
washed up to the shore by tlie tide."
The big pier just west of the Statue
of Liberty is a mass of smoking ruins,
with the debris piled hundred;- of feet
high in places and with th>j tire still
burning.
WOHK OK HEI'AIHIXti
lJAMAt.K I.\ 1'ltOOItESS
The work of repairing the damage
to the buildings on Bed toe's Island and
Kllis Island and lit New York and
Jersey City began to-day. The immi
gration station at Kllis Island hod the
appearance of a war-swept village,
with every window shattered, the roof
of the hospital caved in, the main door
blown away and the dining and execu
tive rooms wrecked, while the island
was strewn with bits of shrapnel,
broken glass and three-inch shells
thrown ashore from drifting wood
which had been bombarding the island
os they burned. The damage was estl
wated at $75,000.
The buildings on B.edloe's Island, with
doors blown in and windows shattered,
showed the marks of si\ eight-hour
bombardment of shrapnel, iron bolts
and spikes, pieces o( steel and chain.
The roof of an iron warehouse was
ripped off, and tho walls arc full of
holes, while the homes of the army
officers are stripped of their chimneys
and walls and plaster are shattered.
The toss there Is estimated at $100,000.
The Statue of Liberty virtually is un
damaged. but the doers to the pedestal
are blown in.
Stories told by those who narrowly
escaped death verge on the miraculous.
One man says he was blown off a
lighter into the bay an.I swam to Bed
loe's Island, but had to swim back
again to the Jersey shore when the
flaming barges bombarded the island.
"The all* seemed to be full of flame,
and I thought (he end of the world
had come," said another survivor.
A third was blown fifty feet from
the top of a freight car and landed
near a building, which fell upon him.
? - ?
ZEPPELIN DRIVEN OFF
English Avlnfor Pursue* mid Attack*
Dirigible Tlilrt.v Mile* On1
1**11 N t ( OIINt.
LONDON, July 31.?The second raid
within a week off the Kast Coast of
England by a Zeppelin airship was
made"th!s morning. An olllcial state
ment announcing the raid says the air
ship was engaged by a British aero
plane.
The oflicial statement follows:
? "At ,":lf. o'clock this morning one of
our aeroplanes pursued and attacked a
Zeppelin thirty mlies off the east coast.
The pilot had flier, more than two trays
of ammunition Into the Zeppelin v/hen
he was temporarily incapacitated by a
portion of his machine gun flying off
and stunning birr. The Zeppelin was
nowhere to 1;* se>?n wVn the pilot re*
waini'd consciousness. 11* was there
foic forced to return to Ms station."
Thru Trsln to Buffalo l.ltbls. Spring*.
Leaven Richmond 3:00 P. At., arrives Buf
falo Jet. 7:&r. P. M. dally except Sunday.
Vlolt this delightful resort. HOUT11EKN
RY.-~Aav>
Collnposnd buildings and ruins, u general scene of the demolition
caused by the explosion in New York on Sunday morning. A carload of
dynamite exploded first, shaking New York City and wrecking a portion of
New Jersey. Immediately after followed a series of eruptions, 100 cars
loaded with shrapnel and ammunition for the entente allies exploding.
DOHERTY SEEKS TO OUST
BROCK FROM OFFICE
Briiu'-. Proceedings Against Chief
lvxecutive of Snilthfleld in
Isle of Wight.
FAILS TO KXFORCK I.AIH)lt LAW
Petition Says Mayor Was "Openly i
and Shamelessly Hostile" in His
Attitude Towuitl Semimonthly and j
and Child-Lahor Laws.
r
Fulfilling his threat to bring: re
moval proceedings under the ouster
law against' magistrates who fail. In
tlie face of conclusive evidence of guilt,
to impose the fines required by law,
Commissioner James H. Dolierty, of the
State Department^ of Labor, has ad
dressed a petition to Judge B. O. White,
of the Circuit Court of Isle 'of 'Wight
County, asking for the removal of I,. C.
Brock as -Mayor of Smithfteld.
The papers setting forth the charges
against Mayor Brock have been placed
In the hands of the Commonwealth's
attorney of Isle of Wight, and a copy
has been served upon Mayor Brock.
Judge White will fix the date for the
trial.
Commissioner Doherty accuses Mayor
Brock of maintaining an "openly and
shamelessly hostile" attitude and bear
ing to the enforcement of the laws of
the Commonwealth, as evidenced by his
conduct when Inspector Cllnedinst, of
the Lahor Department, brought charges
in his court against the Smithfluld
Light and Power Company, and tho
Underwood Manufacturing Company.
Notwithstanding the fact that the
charges against these defendants,
growing out of the violation of tho
semimonthly pay anil child-labor laws,
were fully sustained, < 'omniissloner
Doherty ??barges. Mayor Brock was in
haste to decide the cases aeainst the
complainant and dismissed the war
rants.
IIY ST A \ I) 13 IIS SA III TO IIAVK
I'llOMI'TOD WITNKSSKS
It is further charged against Mayor
Brock that ho permitted bystanders to ^
prompt witnesses, led witnesses him- |
self with the intention of damaging
(he case of the Commonwealth, ad
mitted in open court that he hail threat
ened, before tho warrants had been
sworn out and before, ho had heard the
evidence, to dismiss the warrants, and
that his judicial opinion was ad
mittedly warped, biased* and prejudiced.
Apart from Its immediate relation
to tho law-enforcement program of j
the Labor Department, Commissioner i
Poherty's action Is significant as the j
first attempt to mako use of the nuidi
discussed ouster law. It Is the first j
attempt In years to discipline a magis- !
trato for failure to enforce the laws'
of the Commonwealth. As the first
exercise of the ouster law, the pro- j
ceedings against Mayor Brock will be |
watched with interest throughout tho!
State.
It had been known for some time that
the Department, of Labor was prepar
ing to take steps against a magistrate
in the eastern section of the State,
where In recent months It has experi
enced great difficulty in securing con
victions. A conviction in this case
may ho followed by similar action
against other Justices of tho peace
who have deliberately ignored the
stattito and discharged defendants
^CoiUlnued ~on~Socond JL'agoO
DEDTSGHLAND EXPECTED
TO SAIL WITHIN 24 HOURS
Exact Time of Departure From Bal
timore Said Not to Have Been
Determined Upon.
RESTS WITH CAPTAIN KOENIG
Coast (iuard Cutter Probably Will
Follow Submersible Down Bay and
See to It That Progress of Vessel
Is Not Blocked by Other Craft.
BALTIMORE, July 31.?The German
submarine liner Deutschlaml will leave
Baltimore on l>cr return voyage to tier
many some time within the next twen
ty-four hours, unless plans made to
day are altered. Information to this
effect was received to-night from a
trustworthy source.
The exact time of departure was said
not to have been determined upon.
Captain Paul Koenlg, himself, will de
cide when his vessel shall he pulled
into the stream from the pier to which
she has been moored for three weeks.
To-day was one of great activity at
the pier. A large ha rye which had
blocked the entrance to the Deutsche
land's slip was moved away to another
pier. Aboard the barge was the pig
Iron ballast the Deutschlaml brought
from Germany.
The tug Thomas F. Tiinmins, which
met the Deutschlaml at the Virginia
capes, took on as much coal as she
could carry. Her bunkers were filled,
and bags were piled upon every avail
able portion of the deck. On her re
turn from the coaling pier the tuK
entered the log barrier around the
Dejitschland stern'first, and east a tow I
lino to tho submarine.
Ml StlOHK 1.1 II Kit TV
KCIIf OFI-'ltriSltS Olt ('IIlow j
None of the otlicers or crew of the |
Deutschland had shore liberty to-day,
and Captain Koenig was busy from sun
rise to sunset. The engines of the
submersible repeatedly were tested, and
a quantity of fresh fruits and vege
tables were taken aboard.
The United States Coast (iuard cutter
Apache remained at anchor near the
Deutschland's pier. II is expected the
cutter will leave tho harbor when the
submarine sails, and will keep her in
sight flown Chesapeake l>ay, to see.
to it that the progress of the vessel
is not hindered by other craft.
The Maryland Pilots' Association
had not been asked to furnish a pilot
for the Deutschlaml to-night, but at*
official indicated that such a request
hourly was expected. A pilot can h*
had at any time of the day or niuht on
thirty minutes' notice.
Agents of the ship's owners, the (!er- i
man consul in Baltimore, and Captain j
llinsch. of the N'eckar. who directed the!
reception of the Peutschlaud at the}
rapes, wore in conference almost Von-I
tinually. The conferees declined to j
(IIvuIko the subject under constdera-j
tion. Plans for the sailing of the!
Deutschland became known, however,!
soon after the conference concluded.
III MOItKll THAT llllKMl'.N
W1LI. AHHIVK TO-DAY j
NORFOLK, VA? July 31.?Persistent
reports that tho giant submersible
Bremen, sister ship to the Deutschland",
(Continued on second page.)
Ever ll^en to Baltimore By Rout?
Tho niOHt delightful water trip In Am?r?
Iocl Jj'aro, |2.60 ono way; round win.
INITIATIVE NEARLY
EVERYWHERE WITH
ENTENTE ALLIES
Lines at Many Places Are
Pressed Back From Where
They Stood in 1915.
RUSSIANS CONTINUING
THEIR FORWARD MARCH
Large Re-Enforcements Brought
Up to Keep Them From Fur
ther Gains Toward Lemberg.
FIGHTING IN 80MME REGION
Counterattacks Put Down by French,.
With Serious Losses to
Germans.
Germany enters upon the third year
of the war with hor forces lit nearly
all portions of the main theaters of
operations on the defensive, and with
her lines at numerous places in I-'rance
and Russia pressed hack from whero
they stood a year ago.
Her allies also have yielded th?
initiative to the entente allies almost
everywhere: the A astro-Hungarian
forces in Volhynla and Galicia and In
Italy, respectively, to the Russians and
the Italians, and the Turks in Asia
Minor to the Russians. In addition,
along the Greek border, unofficial re
ports Indicate that Serbs, British and
French, are preparing to throw down
the gage of battle to the Bulgarians
and the soldiers of the central powers.
The Russians, according to the latest
Petrograd communication, are continu
ing their forward march against the
Teutons, capturing the entire Thirty,
first Honved Regiment, together with
Its commander and his staff. To the
south, near Brody, the Russians also
are pressing- Austro-Germari forces/"
wh^are answering the .attack by^bom
hardingr Brody and the orosslnjra of the'
Boldurovka River, endeavoring to hold
their lines of defense. Large re-en
forcements are being brought up to
keep the Russians from further gains
i toward their objective, Lemberg-.
IIERLI.V claims repulse
j OF RUSSIAX ATTACKS
While an unofficial report from Pe
trograd says the Russians havef crossed
the Stokhod River between the Kovel
Surny and Kovel-Rojltche railroads
Berlin says that on both sides of the'
Kovel-Sarny railway, south of the
Turga River and on both sides of the
Llpa, attaaks by the Russians against
General von Llnslngen's troops were
repulsed with heavy casualties to the
attackers, and that nearly 2,000 Rus
sians were taken prisoner.
In the sector of Buczacz, Galicia, Rus
sian attacks also were repulsed/Berlin
asserts.
In the Sommo region of France, both
the British and the French are engaged
in consolidating positions won on Sun.
day from the Germans. The French
were forced to sustain counterattacks
on Monday in the Ham wood and at
the Monacu farm, which Paris says
were put down with serious losses to
the Germans. There was no flghtin"*
on the British front dnring the dav
Violent artillery duols are In progress
in the Thfaumont wood and Floury
sectors, near Verdnn.
In the Astlco Valley, tho Italians
are keeping Up their pressure against
he Austrlans on Monte Clmone. an*
have put down Austrian attacks In the
Adige V alley and the Travlgnolo Val
Icy.
Petrograd reports a further advance
Russians in the region of
Ki/.lngan and the repulse of a Turkish
attack in tho Mosul dlstrlca. while
< onstantlnople says the Turks hav*
driven the Russians from Revanduz
nnd are pursuing them toward the
I orsinn hnprjer.
The British casualties in all tho war '
heaters during the month of July
numhereri t.osm officers and 52,591 men,
Hispat.hes from Cairo announce that
? rkfr ,W " arc fl*hti"S ?Kftinnt
ru'klsh rule ii, Arabia have captured
the Turkish town and fort of Yembo.
on the Red Sen. the port of Medina.
HEAVY HA'ITliES FOI <;ilT
I V A I.I, WAR THEATERS
LONDON. July 31.?The entente al
ie* maintain unceasing pressure both
on the western and eastern fronts, an
front aSJ,!ie, Itttllans ? the Austrian
front. and heavy battles are being
1 fouplit in ii 11 theaters.
I he British and French started a
?e'vm7 T" ana' k ?" S,mdi4v fro?
. ' woo<I the Somme. and made
, , Wlhch brought then,
"V ,hff v""-iffe Of Maurepas. The ?
II s > u' *' t her. which nns hindered tho
opera Hons, has give,, place to clear
? wi' 1 '"?cii?c heat. The Germans
? ? making u,e most determined
| counterattacks, and officially claim th-u
i entente allies have nor gained a
foot of ground by Sunday's attacks.
s,J,e?ss ?>rc continulnff their
?'-d. notwithstanding tho
Z IT S,wrman .re pr^S
ng exer closer to Kovel. According
to to-night s unofficial news, they art
"cross the S.okhod over the whS*
stretch between the Kovol-Sarnty and
Kevel-Rojltache railroads.
General Letchjtrky, whose ope^tlona
: .-fete
