IT SHINES FOR. Af
.ftp
Generally fair to-day ; slightly cooler to
night; to-morrow fair and cooler.
Highest temperature yesterday, 93; lowest, 73.
Detailed weather, mnll ami marine report! on pate 10.
ml
VOL. LXXXIII.--NO. 336.
NEW YORK, TUESDAY, AUGUST 1, 1916. Copyright, 191, by the Sun Printing and Publishing Association.
ONE CENT
Jersey llty nnd Neusrk. ) TWO CKNTS.
iMRRIfiA mSHOTTEST DAY
nr,r, n, nnnn
WHEN 'NOTIFIED'
Nominee Assails Wilson for
Mexican and Foreign
Policies.
FOR PREPAREDNESS
AND LARGER ARMY
Finn Stand. Speaker Says,
Would Have Saved Lusi
tania Lives.
K00SKVELT SHOWS
URKAT ENTHUSIASM
Great Crowd of Notables
Packs Carnegie Hall
to the Roof.
America first nnd America effi
cient."
This was the keynote, this the
promise, uttered by Chnrlcs E. Hughes
last evening at Carnegie Hall as he
accepted from the hand of Senator
Warren O. Harding and the Rcpub
(lean convention' notification com
mlttee the party's commission' to lead
the coming battle for the Presidency
With all his old time vigor of utter
ance, -with the same power of analyst
which wns the marvel of those who
faced him as a prosecutor In the old
insurance days, the Republican candi
date, appearing before the public for
the first time since he emerged from
the Judicial cloister, threw himself
last night, as It were, full panoplied
(gain Into the political arena with a
speech that made Col. Theodore Roose
velt, seated opposite to him, olap his
hinds many times in approval. He
mercilessly assailed the Wilson Ad
ministration for the euplneness of Its
foreign policy, pictured its course In
Mexico ns "a confused chapter of
blunder" and pilloried It for Its vacll
latlon and Indecision with respect to
preparedness and other domestic -problems
of vital concern to Americans In
tbli hour of crisis.
Hall Parked to Roof.
Carnegie Hnll, packed to the roof
despite the sweltering heat, cheered
Mr. Hughes again and again aa he
made his telling points. But perhaps
the loudest npplniwc of the evening
dime when, at the very outset of his
speech, he called up the vision of n
new America, to obtain -which he dedi
cated himself, nn America thnt was to
be "conscious of h power, awake to
obligations, erect In self-respect, pre
pared for every emergency, devoted to
the Ideals of peace. Instinct with the
spirit of brotherhood."
"A country," he concluded with an
emphatic gesture that brought his au
ditors to their feet cheering wildly,
"loved by Its citizens with a patriotic
fervor, permitting no division In their
allegiance nnd no rivals In their affec
tion I mean America first and America
efficient."
Not even In the old days when he as
sailed race track gambling from many
platforms throughout the State did Mr.
Hushes, net a more genuine, spontaneous
outburst of applause man mat wnicn
creeted him ns he drew this picture.
And to make the scene still more Inspir
ing there wan the Colonel, seate-1 with
his family In one of the first tier boxes,
waving and clapping his hands In ap
proval. Pay Tribute to Colonel.
It seemed to be the same Charles E.
Hughes that faced the crowd last night
ao for a whitish tinge which the pass
ing years had given to the whiskers. Aa
he analyzed the shortcomings of the
present Administration, at times with a
subtlety and Irony that brought both
laughter and applause from those In
front of him, he used the same emphatic
gestures that made him such an effective
campaigner before he sought the seclu
sion of the bench.
Mr. Hughes, as had been predicted,
brought the, Mexican Issue sharply to
the fore In his speech. "A sickening
story of barbarities and lust," he called
it, Indicating that he would demand
from Moxlco the performance of Inter
national obligations, "without meddle
some Interference with what does not
concern us."
With respect to our foreign policy,
hs Insisted, t was not the words, but
the strength and resolution behind them
that counted. When he said In this con
nection that there would have been no
sinking of the Lueitanla had It been
en that this country meant what It
(aid his audience cheered uproariously.
There were many times 'ndeed when
the cheers evoked by his onslaught on
th Administration forced him to repeat
a sentence. One of these came when
Mr, Hughes delicately paid a tribute to
Col. Roosevelt by declaring that "under
the pressure of other leadership" the Ad
ministration had been forced to change
it' attitude toward preparedness. In
stinctively the crowd turned toward the
figure Fitting quietly beside his daughter-in-law,
Mrs. Theodore Hoosevelt, Jr., and
let the Colonel t-ee that the applause
with which thin was greeted was meant
' much for him as for the man who had
W'red it, An, .Mr, Hughes smiled and
fumed us pleased hh did the Colonel.
Mr. Hucheb's speech will be found in full
w another column.
Cheers Hrret Roosevelt,
There were few hotter places In Now
icrk last evening that Carnegie Hall,
It was ki hot that few essayed to wear
jeiilng clothes, nnd even In the orchestra
less m,iny mc.n were coat-
Tlie ,al niiod slowly, possibly because
or the t,f.,n, iul ,y ,1P tmn things wero
riaiijf to bogin oven the seats that lm-
Continued on Fourth Page.
KILLS 3, PROSTRATES 38
Thermometers Along the Streets Register from 100 to
105 Cooler Weather Promised To-day High
Humidity Enervating to Workers.
The super nrdeni heat wave that hasl
been making things Mule In the prairie
States drifted Into thli longitude yester
day and tent the official mercury 4 de
gree! higher than It wan on the hottest
preceding day of the summer, or up to
the scorching altitude of 93.
That means that the comparatively re
fined air that only the breeiy prophets
on the 414 foot tower breathe was so re
corded. Down In the bottoms of the
steel and stone sided valleys where
workaday folk go nlong on their close to
earth duties, and where the air Is pretty
well Impregnated with the perspiration
and me breath or the millions, not to
mention the radiating heat from the
walls, the mercury was more ambitious,
marking In some ery hot places more
than 105 and clinging pretty close to 100
almost everywhere there was an ordi
nary mercurial thermometer not too
closely screened from the sun.
After all, the air we breathe at nor
mal altitude Is the kind that should bo
measured to tell how we are suffering
or enjoying ourselves. It Is quite cheer-
rul and pleasant on I'lke s Peak when It
may be mighty hot down on the Colo
rado plains. Ho on Woolworth Peak,
air we do not breathe but would like to.
CAPT. FRY ATT S WIDOW
TO GET $lt7S0 A YEAR
"Murdered by Germans." Says,
Asquith "Criminals Shall
Be Punished."
t.uu i.,i .1 Tk.(!,......ii.
recommended the 'granting of an extra i
penslon of 100 ($500) annually to Capt. ;
t iyatt s widow besides the sum to
which she la entitled under the Govern
ment's compensation scheme. The Great
Eastern Railroad, of one of whose ships
Capt. Fryatt was the master. Is also
granting his widow a 250 (11,250) an
nuity. "It appears to be true that Capt. Fryatt
was murdered by the Germans," said
Premier Asquith In the House of Com
mons this afternoon In reply to a ques
tion by Sir Edward Carson, leader of
the Ulster Unionists.
"The British Government." the Pre
mier added, "heard with deep Indigna
tion of thla atrocious crime against the
taw of nations and usage of war. Com
ing as It does contemporaneously with
the lawless cruelties to the population of
Lille and other occupied portions of
France It shows that the German high
commands under the stress of a military
defeat have renewed their policy of ter
rorism. "It Is Impossible to conjecture to what
further atrocities they may proceed, but
the Government desires to repeat most
emphatically their resolve that when the
time comes these crimes shall not go un
punished. "When the time arrives they are de
termined to bring to Justice the criminals,
whoever they may be and whatever their
position. In a case such as this the man
who authorised the system under which
the crime was committed may well be the
moat guilty of all."
SHELL A COSTLY SOUVENIR.
Carpenter Loses a Fast by Care
less Handling.
Desire to keep as a souvenir of Sun
day morning's explosion a two pound
shrapnel shell found on the deck of the
four masted schooner George W. Kllzle,
undergoing repairs at nobbln's dry
, , . ...
dock. Brooklyn, was responsible for the
amputation yesterday In the Holy Fam-iaw
lly Hospital or part or me leu if o or.
John Johnson, S6 years old, a ship car
penter, of 430 Italnbrldge street. John
son also suffered numerous contusions
of the chest and abdomen as a result of
his whim. He was reported out of dan
ger last night.
The Qeorge W. Ellzle was one of the
many crnft anchored near the scene of
the explosion. She was found later
floating aimlessly In the vicinity of Bed
loe's Island by the captain of the tug
Oallagher and towed to the dry dock.
Her deck was covered with exploded and
unexploded shells. The only living thing
aboard her was a dog.
Johnson with a dozen or more men
were working aboard the schooner yes
terday making repairs, when the former
picked up a shrapnel shell and tossed It
into his tool box near by. Immediately
there was a deafening explosion, which
caused the men working near by to Jump
. . , ...... , V. ..nil. tn a r, .
After the excitement,
into ine uay. .
A 1AY,nan. Ivlnw ..V.F.lV 1
worsmtu iun ".,, ' j
Injured. There was no sign anywhere
of his tool box.
No one else on board the ship was In
jured. 0LER TO KEEP ICE PRICE DOWN
Knickerbocker Co
lie Declares,
Will Protect Housekeepers.
The mercury In the tube may soar,
but the price of Ice to the householder
will not. according to Wesley M, Oter,
president of the Knickerbocker Ice Com
pany. The good news was handed out In
answer to an inquiry based on the re
port that Ice prices were about to climb.
"I do not know whore the report
started." Mr. Oler said. "Other compa
nies may boost the price of Ice. but this
company Is not contemplatlrw any
rhange. The only question la In get
ting enough Ice to supply tho demand."
The raise In the price of Ice from 17
cents to 20 cents to restaurant nnd cafe
owners wns made last spring. Mr. Oler
said, and was not the result of the pres
ent torrid spell.
I. R. T. PAYS CITY $477,907,51.
It Was Dae far Obligations Cover
ing Three Months.
The Interborough Rapid Transit Com
pany ha Just paid the city 1477,907.51
for various obligations from April 1 to
JUThe' largest Item, $412,705,06, Is for
rental of the existing subway, contracted
In 1900. For work contracted In 1902
the amount paid Is $54,170,45. From
tnxes on Income of the Ninth avenue
lino there wns paid $11,032. All the
Items excludo sinking fund payments.
Dougherty Detective llureou and Military
Pnllea It Broadway. Investigation, (ur
r.lll.nc.. .t" Founds MM by Harry V.
Dougbsrty. Frlnclpal.-l.
OF SUMMER
never has been known to cause heat
prostrations.
At every grating of the big buildings
heat demons danced fantastically all of
yesterday afternoon. They were doing
their greatest vibrations between 3 and 5,
when the mercury aloft was between 92
and 93. and six or eight degrees above
that alow.
There were two deaths In the borough
of Brooklyn by the heat. William J.ucas.
"4 years old, of 201 Prince street, was
overcome while sitting at a window and
died before the arrival of an ambulance
which had been called. Samuel Kelllng.
aged 58, of 144 Myrtle avenue also died
from the heat.
In l.ong Istand City, Borough of
Queens, (leorgo Natto. aged 22, of
Corona, was overcome, fell under the
wheel of a dirt train and was crushed
to Month.
The police reported up to midnight
twenty-two prostrations In Manhattan,
nine In' Brooklyn, four In The Bronx
and three In Queens.
The high humidity most of the day
helped to enervate the workers and
diminish their resistance to the torrid
attack.
The national forecasters hold hope of
a Ictun In the heat tills day, which they
say will be "generally fair." followed by
cooler weather to-night.
47TH RETURNS WITH
BALDWIN MADE HEAD
Col. Jannieky Officially Re-
lieved and Unit Mustered
Out of Field Service.
l nc f on? -srvenin ,irw im iiuwui
. . . -.-- I - ............
returned to Its armory at Morcy aye-
""u " "uru
terdny afternoon and was mustered out
of Held service. Then the men were
sent to their homes.
Lieut -Col. Harry B. Baldwin was In
command of the regiment, having been
put nt the head when Col. Ernest I
Jannieky. the commander, waa relieved
of his duties at Peeksklll so that he
might return to the armory to make
an Inventory of supplies,
As soon as the regiment reached the
armory yesterday Col. Baldwin pro
duced an official document from Dl
vision Headquarters putting him In su
preme, command, lie snowea mis to coi
Jannieky. The change Is believed, how
ever, to be only a temporary one until
Col. Jannieky shall have completed the
work or accounting for tne property con
aimed to the regiment.
Many ot the men of the Forty-seventh
returned to Brooklyn grumbling. They
had hoped ever since mobilisation that
they would yet be accepted for service
In Texas. They did not relish their
month's training In camp at Peeksklll,
despite the climatic advantages over the
Mexican border.
On Saturday they reached Van Cort
landt Park on their march from Peeks
klll and pitched camp there. At 2 P. M
yesterday the men broke camp.
TWO IGNORE WARNING, DROWN
Roys Swept Over Nererslnk Fall
Third Victim la Lake,
Port Jfrvis, July 31. Twice warned
that It was dangerous to row near the
falls of the Neverslnk River here, Israel
Welntraub. 19, and Max Lutaky, 1
both of 122 Dumont avenue, Brooklyn
paid no heed and were swept to death.
As they put out In a amalUboat from
a summer hotel where they were spend
ing their vacation they were told that
because of recent rains the river had
j reached a dangerous stage. Again aa
. they rowed aimlessly towand the falls
they were told by fishermen to turn back,
fau took no he(, When flnB,y ,he.
,ner danger It was too late. The
bodies were not recovered
James II Adams, atso of Brooklyn,
was drowned In Lake Lackawanna, near
Andover, when the boat from which he
waa fishing overturned.
CANOE UPSETS NEAR FALLS.
Two sleeping; Men Escape Death
Near Passaic's Brink.
Paterbon, N. J., July 31, Frank
Alexander, 21, of 40 Temple street, and
Aloxander Isaacs, 22, of 8 Circle avenue,
both of T'aterson, having pnddled up the
Passaic IUver In a ennoe last night to es.
capo the heat, went to sleep In the bot
tom of their craft, which started drift
ing toward the Passaic Falls, n mile
below. As they passed under the Bruce
street bridge BOO feet above the falls a
woman on the structure shouted to
n" ."!,") - .. ,
on shore proved fruitless, and the young
men seemed doomed, uut Just above
tho big drop the canoe went over the
ten foot dam of a hydroelectric plant,
towing them. They managed to scramble
nulmA , V. r. 1 . O" h , V. alialln-u ...... n
, twenty feet from the brink, while the
ennoo was aasnca to pieces sixty feet
below,
PORTUGAL USES SEIZED SHIPS.
Thirty-turn Herman Vessels
Form a Itecnlar Service,
Mapsip, July 31, The Portuguese
Government has nuthorlxed the publica
tion here of the announcement of the In
auguration of a service comprising
thirty-two Herman t-tcampshlpa w-tilch
have been seised.
The vessels were turned over to the
vm'.ous Portuguese shipping companies,
who have agreed to my n commission of
5 tier cent, on the total amount of freight
carried. One of the ships, formerly tho
Rotterdam nnd renamed the Flguelra,
has ulready made three trips to Eng
land.
GERMAN COTTON EXHAUSTED.
Lausanne "fiaselle" Nays F.mplre
Has Xa Further Ilesrrvrs,
Hptcinl Cable DttpateA tn Tun Sis.
!onpon, Aug. 1 (Tuesday), The
I.iiusnnne Omelfc makes the statement
that aermany's cotton reserves are com
plrtely exhausted.
The nnwspnper asserts tho source of
Its Information Is German nnd absolutely
reliable,
Resumption All Main Line Traffic via South
ern Itallwsr. Leave N. V. dnlly 1 1 10 A, M.,
4 :3n I', M. nnd 12t30 A, M. for Atlanta, Mont
gomery, Mobile, New Orlsans, nirmlnsham
and lolerjiifiiute points via Chorion, ft, C,
also HOI r. M. dally for Augusta, Us., via
Spartanburg, N, Y. Offlc, :il Ith Ave, Mv.
CITY IN DANGER OF
GREATER EXPLOSION
Tons of Munitions in flrnves-
end Hny Await Ships
Bound for Europe.
2,000,000 POUNDS A DAY
Jersey Towns Also Sny lluil-
roads Ignore Law by Stor
ing Explosives There.
New York city faces a danger Incalcu
lably greater than the $.10,000,000 mil
nltlons explosion of last Sunday morn
ing on Black Tom pier. Dally It Is at
the mercy of 2,000,000 pounds of explo
sives that are floated Into lirnvesend
Bay for transshipment to vessels of the
Entente Allies. In lighters of the same
type as that which set the blaze to the
tralnloads on the pier of thu Lehigh
alley itanroau ammunition exceeding in j
quantity the greatest amount that ever ,
has been on n railroad siding on any
day practically Is unleashed In danger-
out proximity to Brooklyn.
Under the laws laid down by the In
terstate Commerce Commission, the
trains must unload within twenty-four
hours the explosives that reach their
piers. Great ns Is the shipment every
week of this destructle energy to Eng
land, France and Russia It In a demon
strated fact that ships cannot carry the
huge hulk as fast as It Is put on rails.
Therefore, to keep within this law, the
munitions are set afloat and accumulate
In Oravesend Bay. Hence New York
goes to sleep every night over an ex
posed mine. What would result should u
spark set fire t this mass detle-t Imag
ination. Zone of Safety .Needed.
Every step that has been taken thus
far In the Federal lnestlgutlon of the
causes of Sunday' explosion has
brought more glaringly into view that
compliance with the present regulations
simply transfers the menace from the
remotely placed railroad yards of New
.lemikv Intn th, lio-iM nf Vu' Ynr-L:
city. It Is admitted by the Investigators
who have adduced the facts here stated
that an Inevitable outcome of their In
qulry will be to give this city a zone of t
safety. What the solution will be none
of the Federal authorities is ready yet
to state.
The a-enues that bring to New Jer-
sey Its 60,000,000 pounds of ammunition
every monin nave serveu since wie ex
plosion as channels for complants.
Every city, every town and every lllage
along the routes from the munitions
plants to the unloading yards has de
manded the removal of risk. These let
ters have brought charges that the rail
road companies are defying the law by
storing within the vicinity of these
dwelling places carloads of munitions
for days at a time.
Bo the Investigation of the explosion
has taken a wider scope ; It now cm
braces an Inquiry Into every railroad
that handles this dangerous freight.
Tho Interstate Commerce Commission
will demand before tho report Is filed n
statement of conduct from all carriers.
Many Carloads on Italia,
Testimony will he taken to learn If mont s extremely critical,
the forty-eight hour rule has been lived . The Krench and Hrltlsh soldiers made
up to by the different roads. It will be yesterday's attack In sweltering mid
part of the Inquiry to determine Just how Mm.mer heat. The first real hot wao
many carloads of explosives are on
tracks to-day nnd how long they hae
bon there. Imperativeness has been
1n In .k,l ...I, ntmnr. !,;,. u-lflilti
lent to this angle by rumors that within
nrty miles or tne receiving yaras nun
carioaus are on runs.
Under the law It Is demanded thnt nt
no point shall explosives be held for
more than forty-eight hours. The olill-
gntlon Is upon the railroad to see that
the shippers have receiving accommoda -
llnna In kern their exnloslvp frelcbt eon -
...-.i.. .1 . it,. ,.u. . .h.
, ,,,-'.- 't ,-, ,.'
law the roads have It wlrnlii their power
tc sell or return goods that are left un-
ItllllJI'lU nil llll-ll I, win, I- ", ,.i HiiJP.
To delve Into this aspect the boons or,
the railroads will he suhprenned to learn
whether necessity ever enforced the re-
turn of any shipments or their sale. I
Munitions plants will be req'-.ired, too,
to prove that whenever they sent a car-1
load of explosives out of their fnrtorles
n ship wns at the other end to prevent
nny delays on the route. Combustible ,
Inspectors In the towns through which,
tho trains passed will be called upon, j
too, to show that they rherked every car- ;
load and saw It on Its way within the
required time,
Delay In ItemnrlnK Cnrs
hnnrd when some of the cars were eet
II. A. Campbell. Inspector for the In- road station, winch they Had rtacnert in 1 wo years k'h., , n decree Just Issued by Hen Carranri 1 ' lwK',i" " lM,u
terstate Commerce Commission, con-1 a previous attack, and this time, m-oid- Herman advance Ino 'ranee lm, gained , e r. eJx"' I other asset thins previously made Indl-
cerned himself yesterday with the lm- Ing to last teports. were still holding It. such Impetus that It looked as If Paris MVer;t," "" there Is to be an I'ort to
mediate effects of the ex,.olon. He Some of the attncKers got Into Hullle- was In grave danger twenty waiters In ;,Xr;,;i by'n; have a closed shop on all the I alhvays.
went over every spot of the ground that mont and reached the church where ..he o.k,ui.. h two es a n.snme , , -v;;nnV,nt;; p;;,rtby Vhe In other words, the unions will Insist
eWrnmennt tugTuUeS". en!?or b;rT;ce r ItonXn tZmlVu, ihe State Department, on the Uund It' con- on the companle, hlnng .inly union
tnadSr The .Srls 1 c n il ve g l si "he" i f e on all s'l.les care of the other employees of the firm stltulfd an unwairanted and unlawful men, and Insist 0.1 Having their union
haUP'k , How that trust has been observed was e Mi xf o f ,,,Cl!"S r'"17'"1 'l'nlcH.
. ; 1 .1 ,i 1,1.1...... ,i...i, .,iii...u I.. h. ..in., learned vesterdav. In tho Filltnn street foreigners In .Mexico. nMiilin l-'ltur, i-.ilifa reilcenen m
on md. ' Ish had to retire from the edge of Hullle.
One feature of alleged negligence w ill j mont, but made good a considerable ad
be Investigated by Mr. Campbell to-day. 1 vanco southwaid on the flank of the
This was n rumor conveyed bv one of . town, n here, thriiiiiih the hot night, flght
the yard workmen thnt the fire gained I Ing continued In maintain their gain.
Its extensive ground booauso or the delay j ii, .
In getting the munitions trains off the I " ' "
pier. The story given to a subordlnalo Perspiration made white water courses
Is that for more than nn hour after the In the dust nf the men's faces to-day
blaze first wns seen the men of the I.e. and their ejee. looked out through masks
high road were unable to get enough so thick thai their faces t-eemed tn be
switch engines to carry the cars from I rove red with some kind of armor. Motor
the tricks. Seventy nf theso cars' trucks passed like phantoms In thick
eventually were shunted off, but more clouds nn the road, Hunners, stripped
than that number burned on the rails, 1 pi their skin, kept on serving their guns
Black Tom pier and the wanhiiuse ut top speed, Brealhtug came hard lu
ruins of the National Storage Company 1 the mixture of dust and shell smoke,
should hnvo been leased yesterday by Soldiers who reached Hulllemont speak
Billy Sunday for his Illustrations of of the fearful cainago among the Her
damnation hy fire. At midnight pllrs of mans from the British gunllic, owing to
materials on tho flte of the warehouses tho masses of (lennanH concentrated un
still were In flames, venting out a der thu British bombardment before the
brenth that teemed to come from Infantry attacks, They said they could
Hehenna Itself. Kvery now and again hear the mount, of the Herman wounded
the firemen combating the blaze were fiq- water above the bombing nnd rille
driven back by small explosions, In and machine gun lire,
the centre of what had been tho car1 With the news of Ihe shooting of Capt.
tracks was a huge crater moro than . l-'milt fresh lu their minds the British
sixty feet In width and twenty feet In J went Into the charge In u fury, swear
depth. The l,ehlgh engineers gave up , lug tin y winilil iiM imn his death,
the problem of bridging this gap; they The heat was even worse to-day than
circled It. All the ruined cms wire
pulled off yesterday, the twisted rails
were pulled up and ties wero set for
new rails.
Rzploslvv Kipert nn Job,
Col. W. B. Dunn, Inventor nf the ex
plosive known ns duiiute, yesterday took
hold of the situation for the Buirau of
Explosives of the American Hallway Ah
nidation. Tho retired nrmy olllcer an
nounced at the outset he will place tho
blame wherever It betonqs. He does not
Continued on Sixth Page,
ALLIES MAKE GAINS
ON A 6 MILE FRONT
British and French Advance
North of Somtnc in New
Joint Attack.
AT MAUREPAS' OUTSKIRTS
Fierce Herman Counter At
tacks Are Repulsed at
Hem Wood.
Lonpon, July 31. The Allies main
tain unceasing presurc both on the
western nnd eastern fronts. The
British north of the Homme advanced at
ome points on the plateau to the north
of Ilazentln-le-Petlt.
The British and French started a
fresh combined attack on Sunday from
iielvllle Wood to the Somme and made
clogged progrcrc, which brought them
.,,... thf, sVlUlgc f Maurcpas. The
,nlMy WMlncr wMch luu! hlniKred the
petitions has given place to clear
skies with Intense heat.
The Germans are making the most
determined counter attacks and offi
cially claim that the Allies have not
gained a foot of ground by Sunday's
attacks.
t Outskirts of Manrrpaa.
The combined attack of the British
.ind French gained ground nlong n six
Mile front yesterday. The new gains
were scored north of Hnzcntln-lo-pctlt.
the British last night spending their
Inu chiefly In consolidating the ground
won yesterday.
To the south of this sector, where the
French had advanced nlong the road
toward Combles and reached the out
skirts of Maurepas, the Hermans again
launched heavy counter attacks. They
achieved no lasting success, being Im
mediately driven out of trenches which
they momentarily penetrated near Mon
am Farm, Just north of the Somme.
At Hem Wood all the German assaults
er- repul'ed by French counter attacks.
At the same time the French batteries
on the left bank of the Somme enfiladed
the German troops. Inflicting great loss
The strucgle was especially severe
around Monacu Farm, where the Ger-
mans got a rooting ror a moment nut
were Immediately driven back
Numerous breaches In the railroad
fmm Com hie to I'eronne, which Is utll-
ized by the Hermans as the supporting
pouu oi ineir principal line oi aeiences, ,
were made by the French In their latest ,
nfferalve. At the same time two battal-! has done great thlnss, her enemies are
Inns captured the flerman work at the'jet unconquered. The ability to wrest
crossing of tho Olnchy-Hnrdeeourt roads, final victory on the battlefield Is pro-j
nr.u extending tne progression to tne i
east, reached tho railroad facing Maure-1
vas. less than S00 meters from the j
first houses of tho village, which Is thus
menaced from the west and south.
Whole Division In Mae.
The small number of prisoners taken
bv the Preneh Indicates trie fierceness
of the struggle, The C.crmans tried with
all their means to check the victorious
advance. In one sector alone, of less
than two kilometers In length, they put
an entire division in the line. The latest
Information Is the situation of the Her
mans at Ollnchv and especially at Oullle.
of the season struck northern France
lat night and this morning Hrltish nnd
French Infantry cooperated In nn action
,.r.r,l. nt ,l-u un,a I.. s-..l1t.
j north nf the Somme, In front of Oullle-
mont and .Maurepas.
i.very nay ino i,ermans nave neen in-
, rreaslng the number of guns nnd men In
the nulllemnnt sector, which Is among
the lat portions of hljrh ground they
hold. Hy prisoners taken, ten Herman
, battalions, or 10.000 men, have been
1 Identltled nn n frcviil of 2.00n v.irds.
.i,.,, urn i.. ,t,i i.i
where the (iermaiis are still In their old
'second line fortifications, with maze
trenches and deep dugouts built long
I ago nnd strengthened since the offensive
I ...i, llir ' I- -Ii' -i..- .-., ,1, ,,tv,, .,,(,
..', Mill, nn iiiiivik.i fiti-.- nt, r , , ,
begun, ihe Hermans appear to regard
.this sector of critical Importance since
the British broke the second line on the
adjoining flout for a length of two
miles on July 14. (
Flithl In llrolllnu Nun.
part f the British attack struck from
t, ),()dy Trones wood and the other
pat t on the flank, while the Hermans'
tried to man machine guns as usual
after 11 British bombardment. The Her-
1 mans resisted the British bitterly, fight
i lug under the broiling sun ns If every
I huh of ground was precious.
The British got possession of the rail-,
I ruins nf Indescribable ferocity, The Brit
yesti relay. Interior dugouts weie more
stuffy than a stalled train between sta
tlnns lu the New Yolk subway when the
August thermometer Is In 11 record break
ing mood. The men In the first line,
with no diigniitH and no shade except
clouds of shell smoke, were exposed to
tin) full blaze, their steel helmets feel
Ing as hot iih skillets off the tire,
III fluid uf Cillllliiuont they weie dig
ging new trenches to hold tho ground
gained yeHlerday In the combined An-glo-Fieuch
attack, Observation bal
loons went absolutely still In the life-
Continued on Necond Page,
1
1
FLEET OF GERMAN AIRSHIPS
ON THEIR WAY TO LONDON
After Bombarding Eastern Counties They Head for
the Big City British Aviator Engages Zeppelin
Until He Is Wounded by His Own Gun.
Lonkon, Aug, 1 (Tuesday). A fleet
of German nlrshliM lifter bombarding
eastern and pouthcasteru colonies Into
last night, arc on their way to London,
It was reported this morning. An offi
cial communication Issued suys:
An attack by a number of hostllo
airships developed before midnight.
The raiders are reported as having
crossed the coastline along the east
ern and southeastern counties. Bombs
were dropped off the Thames estuary.
The attack It proceeding.
Another official communication Is
sued early this morning says;
Tho raid appears to have been carried
out by a considerable number of air
ships. The raiders pecm to have spent
some time cruising over the counties
of Lincolnshire. Norfolk, .Suffolk,
Cambridge, Essex, Kent and Hunting
tun. Bomlit were dropped somewhat In
discriminately over localities ses
tdng no military Importance. Our
anti-aircraft guns came Into action,
It Is believed, with good effect. Full
details of the raid are lacking.
This Is the second raid within a week
of the east coast of England by Zeppe
lins. An earlier statement said that yes-
GERMANS CALLED TO
DEFEND FATHERLAND
Newspapers Join in Appeal ns
Third Year of War
Besrins.
fiprcmt Vnblt Detpatef, lu Tint Sf
Iainpon, Aug. 1 (Tuesdny) Tlie Oer
mun newspapets are devoting great at-
tentlon to the completion of the second
jr.tr ,u w.ir, i.iyinK stress upon con1
qucred area and the victories of the
earlier months
total captures of prisoners and ar
stores, with otllclal mans of the territory
orougni unuer Herman arms, are printed
V , ,.T i i J . . , ''rlnl'"-
u admitted that, although Uermany
It
claimed on every hand.
The .VordtrtifarAc Altrgemcine Zcl-
tua admonished the peopU .to do every'
thing they can to help win a victory by
following Implicitly nnd uncomplainingly
the order of the Government,
'T;"' " '
rtlar.rlumphs such
e been accorded .0
( The Frankfurter .ritunp says
"" celebrate ma
ns never before haV
any nation. Only one thing remains : to
i "s"1 --'
ll-wlill, nurii uif luivra i. mi- i iicinj
shall be destroyed."
WAR RISK PROFIT $2,192,348.
I'edernl fioternment Anuonnces
V. S. Ship Insurance FlKures.
Washiniiton, July 31. Secretary Me
Adoo to-day si.ide public a summ.irv of
the- operations of the Ilureau of War
nt.it Insurance. It show s a profit of :.-
.......... . l . , .
i;i;,3ts to the Federal Ooverninent In
j,.,,., thnn two years.
From Sentember
14. the date of Its
vsiuhllshmcnt. to -lulv 31. 1916. the lm -
, reau Issued 1,539 policies covering a total
i amount of I13!i,392,3vn on American cur-
'goes and shliis carrying non-contraband
J poods all over the world.
ti, ormii t.rmltitn. received for this
; Insurance amounted to J2.9ni,KH. against
, which the losses to date amount to only
1 $712, 51.
At' present the bureau has nt risk a
! , ' . ' .i . .o nm 1..
, H.- HI if ll- .11 1 II 1 11 11,1-11 ,w ..i.'i'Tini'i nllllir,
j i lliri-l'lll l- ,,l,.-i,ll ll,,- t,, ,,;-r, t
total of 12.320,l3!i, and during the last.'
three months has covered oxer $lfi,037, -
444 of Insurance nt a premium of
t263,S41.
The bureau expires by limitation of
law on September 2, 19D". and will go
c,ul r , business of writing war risk
Insurance on that date unless Congress
extends Its life.
ttriTTTDC AT WAD ATTITT1
WAlltltS Al WM Ai.UL,U,
Frllnna Support Kin of Men at Ihe
Front In Kiirnpe.
restaurant as well as the Sixth avenue
place there have been weekly collections,
to which each employee must contribute.
As the firm has 100 employees these con
tributions' to the fund hao been sub
stnntlal, In all $8,000 has been raised, li.ich
employee from cook tn bus boy must
clve 2.1 cents a week to this fund, but
there nre few spirits among them so
mean as to proffer the mlnlmu.n amount.
Fifty, 75 or l i these are tho usual
amounts.
In all eighteen wives and twenty-six
children are being supported hy the men
who remain at their posts, many nf them
bv reason of nge, and this support will
continue for the duration of the war,
BLACKLIST REPLY SOON.
V. S, Protest llecel vlnu Snipa
thetle, Cnrernl Attention."
I.oniion, July 31. At the British For
elgn Oltlce It wan stated to-day that tho
American note protesting ngalnst the
blacklisting of American firms was re
ceiving sympathetic and careful consid
eration. An nnwer probably will be sent
lu the near future, ns Ihe points raised
will not require an extensive Investiga
tion, the British pulley In regard tu this
matter being well settled,
The Department of Foreign Trade ex
pects to continue tn settle as quickly as
possible all Individual claims to release
from the list.
Barbers TnUlnir Strike Vote,
Twenty thounni journeymen barbers
In tho metropolitan district nre now
taking a strike vote, lluhln Hiiskln, busi
ness agent of their union, snld yester
day, Tho result will be announced In
two weeks. Increase of wages and
shorter hours are demanded.
With a unanimity suggesting otllclal - u J "LTVr" ' "of Co mTrei. ' organize 11m an.iiun con-
".'renL'Z,,1'.?' rJ'T,"'! '? ,,h', I',""?" ,1 , " resoKn was ,, lop,.' 'providing mtr.rme nn.1 mechanics cm-
Wiri:ffit :;on,oo,r:: 1 ,"oyf'a ,'" "" "or,,luhs T,,p ,lms
i.rn,lHi m ,i..t,,, it i .in ii-.- e a.,n einent mis session on .1 Hate to t.iKf ...... ,1..... .... , . f n-eneral
lerday morning a Zeppelin -was engaged
by a British ucrcplnnc off tho eastern
coast,
At t:ir. o'clock this morning one of
our aeroplanes pursued nn attacking
Zeppelin thirty miles off tho east
coast. The pilot had fired more than
two trays of ammunition Into tho
Zeppelin when ho was temporarily
Incapacitated by a portion of his ma
chine gun flying off and stunning him.
The Zeppelin was nowhere to be seen
when the pilot regained consciousness.
Hu was therefore forced to return to
his station,
Great loss of life attended ii Zeppelin
raid on London on October 13 last. Ac
cording to the olllclal British ao'ount
127 persons were killed or Injured by the
bombs dropped by the raiders, but n far
larger number of fat-illtlca actually oc
curred according to persons who wen.- In
London at tho time nnd later caino to,
,t.i , .. ......... .... fn.
IU1S VUUIUI. Ill.tii) -luu biiv
killed, one man said, l.lttlo military
damage was done by the Zeppelins, but
many buildings were wrecked. One hotel
was blown to pieces.
The ruldets first appeared over the
iclty In the early evening and dellered
a bomb attack. After disappearing for
five hours they again returned to drop
explosives upon the city about midnight.
IMMIGRATION BILL IS
SHELVED BY SENATE
Democratic ('uncus Outwits
Effort to Make It Rider to
Child Labor Measure.
Washington. July 31 The Demo-
cr.s 01 me senate to-ciay cnecKinaici
an emiri onne i.cpuoiicans 10 iu.ikc
,!lP lmmBrnton bill a rider to the child
labor bill. By a vote nt 35 to IT. all
Democrats voting together, the Senate
Ill, the lilll if dhmtlil tnpntni frit, tlrtt
business to be considered at ihe opening
of the sot-Ion In December, and houlil
be kept before the Senate until dli-po.ed
, fi A motlon U). Senator Polndextre, Ite.
mullein, to take up the measure linme-
finitely was first voted down.
During discussion on the motion .Sen-
u. i o . . ...i...
. ...i . .. . t. - r .41 i.iti .. . . .
' ,,, .,. ,i,'i,, .,, 'ii,.in .i, .',, ,, ... ... ,.
Teubr onW Trayne. organ-
tn.iitlc-il and warned his colleagues thit 'l5"'r of t'10 American lVileratlon of
'i..,, ..n r,f.Jv.. th.'ir ..niuie.ti , r w. i..,iu i.-rit,i- ...i ......
arguments for the stump, because the
, ?h??PXV
l,, Vc;!. - Int Uid t o t),o Seiil
t ;lU, ,,rf Kilery anil addrei-lng hlmeelf
to the correspondents, he continued:
'!f nn ft.lliiAH .ivri-lKM I Itiilt-tnt-nt '
you ttlll u--e about a flngerful of lln! po-'
lltlcal debate. If you use moic your
...II,... -...KKI.. ...Ml ,t.-n... I, !.... ,1...
waste basket."
'"Those fellows up there." he added, ns
he turned again to the Senate, "when
they hear us wrangllm; about these po.
luteal questions merely go outside and
say to each other . -Tbj dogs nre barking
again.'"
The Democratic Senators In caucus
l,v , vnt., ,if 'I V t O li-i.l r.-v!nt i ul V
by a vote of 3s ta 0 had previously
bound nil members to vote to postpone
action i n the Immigration bill until the
1 eM session of Congress, nnd by a vote
I of 32 to 7 pledged the majority to reject
. 't as a rider to the child labor bill.
The Democrats were forced to take
caucus action to net out of the hole Into
I which Senator Borah of Idaho, Iteliubll-
' can, put them when he served notice that
' '"' wnu1'1 ofrpr ""' Immigration bill ns
i an amendment. President Wllon, as;
I had President Taft, already had vetoed
I can. nut them when he served notice tb.it
. -- --- , . . Ill,
, . . . . i
"' mnmr,!,.""" "n "
l 1 ', " .110.1.111 m 111 11
If It was pasted n an amendment to the
child labor bill he would bo obliged to
veto that measure.
CARRANZA HITS AT OIL FIRMS.
Foreign shnrehnlilera Must (ilve
Them fi or lie fltlsens.
Washimhton, July 31 Foreign share-
holdeis In .Mexican companies, Including!
the greaat oil corporations of the Uulf
const, are icqulred to give up their
Secretary Cabrera ngreed to-day to
extend the time for the payment of the
taxes on mining properties for the four
months ended June an until August 10
The time for payment expired to-day,
iK decree issued to-day provides that all
mines which have not paid taxes due
June .Hi are declared forfeit.
After August in mining tnxes which
have not been paid will bo Increased 25
per cent, until Siptember 1. An In
crease of 100 per cent, will be charged
if paid In October.
MEDAL OF JUTLAND SEA FIGHT.
Prince I. nuts Designs Memento to
Aid Annl OrplmnnKca.
Sprcfal Cahle lrp,Uch to Tub Si n
I.onpos, Aug 1 (Tuesday), Prince
IiuIm 1 Batteuberg has designed a
medal to commemorate the British
ichlevements In the naval battle off Jut
land. These are struck In gold, silver,
bronze and while metal and nre sold nt
prices ranging upwind from one shilling.
The money Is for the aid of naal ur
plumages, The medal Is the first of a
series Prince l.ouls Intends to issue for
the same purpose.
Lodge Appeal Yav Casement.
WAHlllNrrroN. -ttily 31 A personal
appeal In behalf of linger Casement hns
been made by Senator Lodge, ranking
Iti publican member of the Senate For
flgu Ilelatlons Committee, who opposed
is Improper tho Senate resolution re
questing President Wilson to urge the 1
British Hovermiient to extend clemency ,
to political offenders, It became known
to-day that Senator ILodge had made 1
his appeal to Sir Cecil Sprlng-lllce. who 1
transmitted it to the British Foreign!
I
UNIONIZE CITY,
SAY CARMEN, OR
ALL CARS STOP
Ultimatum to Companies
Demands Freedom to Or
ganize Every System.
SKK M.flOO WOH KM RS
01T IX (JKKATER CITY
Subway. 11. 1. T.. Elevated,
Hudson Tube and L. I.
3Ien Disaffected?
XKW YOKE RAILWAYS
XKXT. POLICR HKLIKVE
Two Thousand May Join
Third Avenue Kipflit for
Closed Shop To-day.
Street railway strike leaders, led by
William n. Fitzgerald, (ho organizer
from Troy, throw down the gauntlet of
"unionism or n tleup nf all the car
line of New York" to the transit cor
porntlons of the greater city yester
day. Th question: "All union carmen
on all the transit lines or a complete
paralysis of tmnninrtatlon facilities.
, .i,i,.i.. , . ..
gates, who admitted secret efforts
line been under way for the hint four
walkout.
! Fit7epi-ilil. his crnv eve tn.nrltllnis
' . , , , , , " " ,
i vnteil III hlx room In the Contl-
nental Hotel Ine: evening, surrounded
by his associate, William I). Million,
1 Intern.itlnnni .,ri,i..n ,.f i
Timothy Henley. UN doeves wero
""" hl" r,,,,,,r A
""'w """ " of
' hl'' lK',r
Mm I'm mi All Lines .lulu liilon,
"Our watchword, boys. Is '.xinlle,"
t"e have done vely nicely thus far,
' thank you. but we are Just Mart Ins.
Now get It out of your houls thnt we
are particularly In'crestcil In the green
c.ir.i or the New York llailways Coin-
pnnv. We don't discriminate. We've
, tied' up the Third Avi-lle tight a a
. . . .,-,.,.
III -lllll nu 1H II MMII.-- in III J,.II1I7.0
U1P InP." " or ""'' 1,1 ,m c" nnn
"car .ew inns. v e nre organizing
thorn now. There's the subway, the
elevated, the H. 1!. T the MoAiloo
tubes, the Long Inland tr.ietlon lines,
t))r. Sf'cotnl iivcr.ilc Hue and the New
.. .. .,.,,.. . M
...... ' ' . .. ..
" 1111 g"lliK to call it strike
" ' 'v 1 , .
on tlie New oris Kailwiiys .
"Strike? I here you no again. Who
said anything iibout a strike? I said
wo nro ni-g,nnzing tho men and wove
oiirolled men from every linn I've
mentioned, and the men nre demand
ing action, Now, lot' see what the
cnmiianles are going to dn iibout It.
I'm going tn gi t a good sleep to
night. I need it "
"HiUV Iibout .Mr. lletlley'.s statement
to the New Yotk llailwnjs employ
ees?" "Ilcilloy's oppo.-ed In the union, and
I won't discu-s hill) now "
Flu hi for 11 'Closed Mtnp."
plans it Is evident tho union loaders
11 rn moving seoietly In 11 large nnd
comprehensive n'lieme. The strike
of the Titled Avenue cm men was ex
tended tn the Ninth Kiver lliillrond,
running from the Deshnissci itreot
ferry over the Williamsburg Bridge
into Brooklyn. It w.is learned that
cmbiyoiile organizations already have
been started mining t-ubwiiy, elevated,
Hudson Tiiiiiul. II 11. T. and Long
Island City railway carmen.
An Indication of how set Ions tlie nu
thorltles regnid the growth nf the ittlKe
spirit among the carmen cinie In a con
ference that look place last night be.
tween Hov. Whitman and Pol ce Com.
tnlssloner Wood" Neither would sa
what Ind been dicus-eil, but both ad
mitted that thej would meet again to
day. . Willi t Due 'Iii-iIii.
As for the New Ym-k Hail way, the
police lai.t night said they lielliuid
11 strike would bo cnl ed on that com
pany's llnc.s to-day. A hall fur meet
ing purposir! Iiln ad.v has hn-n leillnl
on the West Side. when, the green car
cmplnjren tuny nwsi ruble and where a
nuns meeting soon w.ll be h -d, per
haps to-night.
Fur propaganda w rk lUtinnSr the
carmen on those llt.es the best incn
from iinmiig the stiUcis mi tiro TJHrtl
Avenue svstein 111 both Thu lirofl ufftl
Manhattan were sent out yeiti-rflnjT In
r-qu:iiu nf slv each ill charge 1 n
inptaln, tn meet c.'inneii m seep" whx
fur a n'rik- or to do mls-
' '. ' rt ,,,,, v, the inei at work,
M"I , w,, mder Ns.icl
""'i. i-o.iinilHstoiiiT
V w
