T rrmmf
'c ,wjJfa4B'7l
iwsr1
TT1NAWC TAX E D I T f O N '
Heirger
UtJ
NIGHT
EXTRA
NIGHT
EXTRA'
ituentn
&fLt
" -v ' r
F?V DWjymi UJ g 'w P 'i" '
Wm tay ilJJPl lift yjWV 1 V-flft
l
pr
VOL. H.-NO. 275
FRENCH HURL
BACK TEUTONS
NEAR LIHONS
Germans Shift Assaults
South of Somme, but
in Vain
HEAVY FIRING ON MEUSE
Crown Prince Prepares for An
other Great Stroke at
Verdun
i : V
paris, Aug. l.
German attacks against tho French In
Ticardy have been shifted south of tho
Bomme In an effort to hold back tho advance
on Teronne. Tho communique Issued by
the War Office today reports that Teuton
forces attacked at Llltons. Tho assault
was repulsed, hovyaver.
I.thona Is on the southern sldo of the
salient which tho French troops have driven
toward teronne and Into tho larger German
salient which terminates at tho Junction of
the Olso and tho Atone. Succoss for tho
Germans at that point might Interfere with
the French plans, but thus far tho Germans
have made no gain.
On tho Verdun front the bombardment
on tho right bank of tho Meuso has In
creased Jn violence, the communique
states. Guns of tho heaviest callbro aro
being usod. It Is understood that tho Ger
man's are preparing with tholr artillery for
a great Infantry assault.
The text of tho official communique fol
folsw: North of tho Somme the enemy did
not renew his attacks during tho night.
North of Avro, after a violent bombard
, ment, tho Germans tried two BUrprlso
attacks on our positions In the region
of Llhons, which wcro checked by our
flro.
On tho right bank of the Meuso tho
artillery dUcl became extremely vio
lent In tho oourso of tho night in tho
region of Thlaumont work. Tho bom
bardment was carried on with shells
of tho heaviest caliber at Fumln wood
and Laufec.
West of Pont-a-Mousson, In tho sec
tor of Fleury, the enemy blew up thrco
mines. We occupied the southern edge
of tho threo craters before our trench.
Tho night was comparatively calm
on the rest of tho front.
Adjutant Lenoir brought down an en
emy acroplano, which fell within Its
4lnes north of Verdun. This Is the
fifteenth German machine brdught to
earth bythlaavlator?.;Anothor Gorman
aeroplane, attacked by ono of ours,
crashod to earth west of Ktnln.
BRITISH HOLD NEW GAINS
IN FACE OP FIERCE TEUTON
ATTACKSjTONDON SAYS'
LONDON, Aug. 1.
Sir Douglas Ilalg's troops aro holding
the ground gained in tho Somme campaign
against severe attacks by the Germans.
The omclal report Issued today announced
the repulse of a German assault at Bazen-tln-le-Petlt,
between Pozleres and Longue
val. In general, according- to the official state-
ment, the situation is uncnangea.
Tho War OfTtco statoment follows:
The general situation is unchanged.
.North of Bazentln-le-Petlt an attack
against our lino was repulsed. There
was a heavy artillery duel throughout
the night. Elsewhere there is nothing
to report.
MAN OVERCOME BY HOT
WEATHER; RELIEF SOON
Morninrg Temperature High, but
Low Humidity Cools City.
Pedestrian Prostrated
Temperatures
Today Teaterday
Midnight 79 75
1 a. m. ....... 78 74
2 a. m ,.. 77 74
3 a. m 73 74
4 a. m 73 73
6 a. m 73 73
6 a. m 73 73
7 a. rn 74 75
. 8 a. m 75 70
a a. m 78 79
10 a. m 80 82
11 a. m 81 90
Noon 82 01
1 p. m, ...,.., 82 93
One nrostratlon that mav be fatal was
the result of the excessive heat" at 10:30
o'clock this morning when' the mercury
stood at about the same mark as 'at the
same time yesterday, the hottest July) 31
since local records beganr There was a
decline in temperature shown in the early
morning hours, but toward noon the ther
mometer began' to register higher, It
remained well below the 95 degree maxi
mum of yesterday, however.
Jeronie tarmondy, 35 years old, 836
Mechanic street, succumbed to the high
temperature and fell unconscious on the
sidewalk at Germantown avenue and Ruff-
Continued, on Fare Two, Column SU
THE WEATHflR
FORECAST
For Philadelphia and vicinity
Partly cloudy tonight and Wednesday;
cooler tonight; moderate temperature
Wednesday; gentle winds, mostly north
east. usxam OF DAY.
Sun rises 4:SS .m.l&Ioon rUts... 8:10 p.m.
Sun sets 7:1 PJB-IMoou noutha. l&Ip.m.
DSXAWABK BIYK1J TIDE CHANCES,
CHESTNUT STREET.
Hlsa wtr. . 2:la.m.HUa water.. 1:10p.m.
Eov? wit.. 10:24 .m.uw watr. .1043p.m.
JEJUfEBATl'KB AT KACH 1IQUB.
si9TunTi u lV 21 31 l!
5T7ST60T8ir 83 I S3 1 831 821 811 SO
ALLIES WILL WIN; WAR WILL NOT
END IN DRAW, SAYS LORD NEWTON
K By LORD NEWTON
X Drltlsh Undtr Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs.
LONDON, Aug. 1.
THE Great War will not bo a "drawn game." The Allies will surely win
tho reward of their sacrifices and those sacrifices will have been vain
unless there shajl result new world
conditions of comty and better un
derstanding. Entering the third year of the war
one is struck by the fact that con
temporary events irr Franco indicato
tho Allies effort, which until now
has been largely that of preparation,
will not result in the. depressing
state of equilibrium which some hnve
prophesied in using the metaphor
"a drawn game." Tho sacrifice of
our men and those of tho great
French republic nnd our other Allies
on scattered gigantic fronts will
quite assuredly win their rewnrd.
What is to be the reward of all
this sacrifice and effort?
It is not only punishment of the
guilty, or new hope for tho nations
that have been victims of the Cen
tral Powers; new hope for Belgium,
Serbia and , tho Armenians and
Syrians that those who planned such
deeds of violence will assuredly meet
just recompense; but beyond what
is to be- meted out there stands the
possibility of tho future, and our
sacrifice and effort will have been in
vain unless there shall arise from all
this bloodshed, new world conditions
in which action between Stato and
State is conducted in an at-
mosphero of better understanding, or, when mutual understanding fails,
the points at issue be decided moro under tho influence of tho principles of
justice.
HUGHES SPEECH
MAKES TARIFF
DOMINANT ISSUE
Protection of American In
dustry and Living Stand
ards Is Republican Aim
'
ALL FACTIONS PLEASED
Hughes Makes Declaration
for Suffrage Amendment
NEW YORK, Aug. 1.
CHARLES EVANS HUGHES, Re
publican candidate f or-Fresidont,
today declared himself in favor of
an amendment to the Constitution
granting women tho right to vote,
lie made his views known in a tele
gram answering an inquiry from
Senator George Sutherland, of Utah.
Mr. Hughes say3 that the pro
posed amendment should be submit
ted and ratified, that the question of
woman suffrage be removed from
political discussion. The text of his
message to Senator Sutherland fol
lows: ,
"Your telegram has been received.
In my answer to tho notification I
did not refer to tho proposed Fed
eral amendment relating to woman
suffrage, as this was not mentioned
in tho platform. I have no objection,
however, in stating my personal
views. As I said in, my speech, I
think it to be most desirable that
tho question of woman suffrage
should be settled promptly. The
question is of such a nature that
it should be settled for tho entire
country.
"My view is that tho proposed
amendment should be submitted and
ratified and the subject removed
from political discussion.
"Very sincerely yours,
"CHARLES EVANS HUGHES."
By PERRY ARNOLD
NEW TOllK. Aug. 1. Charles Evans
Hughes's "keynote" for the coming cam
paign pleased all Republicans today. Tarty
chiefs who assembled to hear the former
justice formally accept tho nomination last
night were unanimous in praising the
striking sentences with which the candidate
outlined the Issues on which the, O. O. P.
Is to start eviction proceedings against
Woodrow Wilson and the Democratic ma
jority in the Senate and HouBe.
The fact that 4000 men and women sat
for nearly three hours' in sweltering, sls
zllng heat iovhear the nominee break another
one of his famous silences in the meeting
at Carnegie Hall was tooked upon by
Republicans as auguring well for success in
November. Moreover, the same Bticky,
sweating auditors had enough enthusiasm
left ai the end of that 'session to cheer
Hughes vociferously. They would, have
lilted to have heard something from Colonel
Roosevelt, but the former Moose, "playing
"second .fiddle" at a political gathering
for the first time in a great many years,
hustled out of the hall.
A HARMONY SPEECH.
Hughes's speech pleased because in the
ylew of his friends he supported his har
mony plea with a selection of the issues
for the campaign which combine views of
Republican standpatters, Republican liber
als and Progressives. The "old liners"
were pleased with a ringing protection
declaration on the tariff; the liberals with
the labor, conservation' and administrative
efficiency sections in his upbraiding of the
Wilson Administration, and the Bull
Moosers with the "Americanism" creed, the
preparedness platform and the Mexican dis
cussion. Republicans and Democrats alike are
convinced that Hughes's principal -issue in
his fight against Wilson will be the Mexican
situation. The second offensive will be
bombardment along the lines of "adequate"
ureparedness and the tarift
Hughes's tariff attitude was clearly
shown in his acceptance when he said:
"Our opponents promised to reduce the
cost of living. TU they hare failed to
Ceatlntfed oa Vm Tr Cehuna Tfewe
PIirLAtELPniA, TUESDAY, AUGUST
l
LORD NEWTON
LIQUOR MEN LEVY
ON TRADE IN PLAN
TO COMBAT 'DRYS'
Retailers Deduct One Per
Cent of Bills for Cam-
paign Fund
WILL "PROTECT" BUSINESS
In their fight against 'prohibition tho
Philadelphia Retail Liquor Dealers' Asso
ciation -lias announced through tho na
tional president, Nell Bonner, that there
Boon will be levied a tax on all mon with
whom tho liquor dealers do hualneen, and.
thus will bo raised a large fund to com
bat tho prohibition movement.
Tho Idea is to deduct 1 per cent of all
purchases from tho bill and put this amount
into a general campaign fund. It Is to ap
ply to merchants, druggists, Bupply deal
ers and every class of trade patronized by
tho retailers. Tho letter follows:
"Tho Philadelphia Retail Liquor Dealers'
Association, In common with retail liquor
dealers' associations of other States, has
adopted a discount stamp system, tho pur
pose of which Is to afford our friends whom
wo patronize an opportunity to help our
cause by contributing In an equitable man
ner townrd a fund to bo used, (In legitimate
ways) In protecting and defending our busi
ness against confiscation by Stato and na
tional prohibition.
This stamp proposition contemplates a
voluntary contribution of 1 per cent dis
count a penny on each dollar from In
voice prices, on goods sold to the retnll
liquor trade, this amount to be deducted
from bills and invoices unci discount stamps
to the amount of such contributions to be
attached to bills and Invoices when payment
is made either In cash or by check. The pro
ceeds of such contributions are to be turned
into a general fund to be used for the pur
pose aforesaid.
"For tho purpose of Illustrating this dis
count stamp system, subject to your ap
proval and consent now and In the fu-
Continued on Fate Two, Column Six
PfflLS FAIL TO HIT
AND CO S WIN FIRST
Lavender Allows but Four Hits.
Zimmerman Bats Out
Homer
By CHANDLER D. RICHTER
PHILLIES' BALL PARK, Aug. 1.
George Chalmers went to the mound for
the Phillies in the first game of today's
c'ouble-header to try to convince tht. fans
that his splendid showing against Pitts
burgh last week was not a flash In the
pan. Chalmers appeared to have a lot of
ituff and got by all right In the first Inning,
but In the second he carelessly grooved a
fast ball for Heinle Zimmerman and he
promptly lifted the ball into deep center
field bleachers for a home run, sending the
Cubs off to a flying start.
Jimmy Lavender, who was batted out of
the box by the I'hllllcs in the second game
of Saturday's double-header, was given a
chance to redeem himself.
Wilbur Good returned to right field today,
as Manager Moron did not Intend to send
Cravath in the game against right-handed
pitchers for a few days.
Jimmy Sheckard. a member of the famous
Cub machine which reigned supreme in the
National League from 1900 until 1910,
donned the Cub's uniform today, but not
as a member of the team. Sheckard paid a
visit to his old teammates. Tinker, Brown
and Archer, and put on the uniform Just
for old time's sake.
FIRST INNING.
Byrne and-Luderua retired. Flack lined
to Bancroft. Mann singled past Byrne.
Mann died stealing, Burns to Bancroft.
No runs, one hit, no errors.
Paskert walked. Wortman made a fine
stop of Nlehoff's bounder and threw o
Zimmerman, forcing Paskert Byrne hit
into a double play, Zeidsr to Zimmerman
tp Saier. No, runs, no hits, no errors.
SECOND INNING.
Zimmerman smashed a long "drive into
the deep center-field bleachers ' foe a home
Csutlaiuji oa faze 3Utu, Column Xfcrc
TEUTONS QUIT
KOVEL, ROME
REPORT SAYS
Heavy Artillery, Food and
Munitions Are Withdrawn
From Volhynia Fortress
VLADIMIR EVACUATED
General Von Bothmer Said to
Have Been Already Outflanked
by Leschitsky's Army
LONDON, Aug. 1. Wireless reports re
ceived at Itomo nnd forwarded here today
asserted that Germuny Is withdrawing her
heavy artillery and her food and munitions
depots from Kovcl In tho face of the Kub
slan enveloping movement. '
Tho same report stated that Vlndlmlr
Volhynsky, In tho samo sector of tho east
ern front, has already been completely
ovneuatcd.
Another wireless from Homo says that
tho army of General von Bothmer has al
ready been enveloped by a sudden flanlc
movement of tho nusslans In Gallcla. If
this report Ib correct, the collapse of tho
Austro-Gcrman defenso In Gallcla Is Im
minent RUSSIANS CROSS DNIESTER
WEST OF STANISLAU; REPULSE
HEAVY ATTACKS FROM KOVEL
Petrograd, Aug. 1. Charging through
marshy lands, sometimes waist deep In
water, Russian forces drove back tho
Teutonic line from tho Dniester River to
Koropletz, west of Stanlslnu, and elsewhere
along the eastern front have prossed tho
Germans and Austrlans hard, according
to today's War Office statement
Heavy counter-attacks from Kovcl and
Lutzk wcro repulsed after the Russlnns
had attacked In tho region of Tchckhuv
and Dubenka.
Crossing of the Dniester toward Koro
pletz waB accomplished despite destruction
of bridges by tho retreating Germans, tho
Czar's troops wading across, reaching tho
west bank of the swollen stream and taking
1000 of the enemy prisoners.
The German lino was again bent back
ward in tho bend of tho Stokhod In the
region of Vollckl and Kuchary. .
,.-.- -- -
WHOLESALE CAPTURE OF HEAVY
GUNS BY THE SLAVS IMPERILS
TEUTONS' LINES OF DEFENSE
LONDON, Aug. 1. The Irresistible ad
vance of the Russians In northern Gallcla
and Volhynia continues, and yesterday
drove tho Toutons from tho wholo Stokhod
line before Kovel. Driving forward In the
face of dcBtructlvo gusts of flame, ns well
as of the fire from tho German and Aus
trian guns, Brusstloff's troops crossed tho
marshy stream along tho whole bend be
tweon the Sarnyt-Kovel and the Kovel
Rojltcho Railroads, a stretch of 33 miles.
Tho sector between tho two roads and
tho rlvor Is now completely In their hands,
and they are sweeping forward west of the
Stokhod with such speed that the retreat
ing Teutons nre finding It impossible to
hold tho lines previously prepared for them
or to construct new defenses able to with
stand the furious charges of Infantry and
cavalry and Incessant rain of shells poured
forth by tho Russian guns.
WHOLESALE CAPTURE OF GUNS.
Brusslloff Is bringing the heaviest pres
sure to bear on the enemy's lines on both
sides of the Sarny-Kovel Railroad, south
and west of the Turga River and on both
banks of the Ltpa at its source. His troops
have pierced the Teuton lines at several
points.
Human lives are being sacrificed with
prodigality on both sides, although It Is
probable that the Russians at present are
suffering more in dead and wounded, while
Continued on Pate Thife, Column Fire
ONE DEATH, THREE NEW
CASES OF PARALYSIS
Camden Negro Child Succumbs
to Disease Doctors Believe
Deformity Can Be Averted
Infantile Paralysis
in the Last 24 Hours
New cases in Philadelphia 5
Deaths in Philadelphia , . 2
New cases in New York 159
Deaths today in New York. ... 67
Total deaths in New York.... 892
New cases in Pennsylvania. . . . 14
Deaths in Pennsylvania.. ..... None
New cases in New Jersey, . . t . 28
Deaths in New Jersey 1
Infantile paralysis caused the death to
day of Hilda Rice, a 3-year-old negro child,
oi 6S7 Cherry street, Camden, N. J. The
Bureau of Health received notification of
the death of the child through Dr. Clement
A. Branch, who was called In by the pa
rents. The child was stricken late last
night and died this morning-. The Board
of Health placed a quarantine on the house
Immediately.
Three new cases of infantile paralysis
were reported today, the total victims of
this dlseaxe in Philadelphia since January
1 being now 46 and since the beginning of
the New York epidemic 42. The cases re
ported are:
Tony Avlcola, 6 months. 757 South Ninth
street '
George Floan, J years. 3443 Wallace
Bt JoMph Pones. 15 months, 3?6l Jforth Sec
opd street -.
CeaUaoed oa Vtf Hour, Column Tre
1, 11.
CortnotiT,
QUICK
CHICAGO itG-..
PHILLIES
?.
Lavender nnd Wilson Chalmers nnd Burns.
ATHLETICS... 00 0 0 00
CHICAGO -S-G'., 0 0 1,0 0
K.-.'.ors and Plclnlck Kussell and Schalk.
I
CUBS BEAT PHILS IN
PHILLIES r h o a c
Paskert, cr 0 2 10 0
Nichoff,2b 0 12 3 0
Byrne, 3b 0 12 3 0
Good, rf 0 0 1 0 0
Whittcd.li 0 0 3 0 0
Luderus, lb 0 0 10 1 0
Bancroft, ss o
0
0 4 11
Burns, c 0 0 3
!'2 0
3 0
Chalmers, p 0 0 1
Totals 0 427 13 1
GASOLINE PRICES CUT IN SOUTH
NEW YOBK, Aug. 1 Tho Tex.as Company has reduced tho
price of gasoline one cent a gallon in North Carolina, South Carolina
and Virginia. Maximum nnd minimum prices there now nro ns fol
lows: North Carolina, 25a23 cents; South Carolina, 26 l-2a24 1-Z
cents; Virginia, 24 l-2a22 1-2 cents.
RAILROADS APPEAL DINING CAR LAW
HAKRISBUBG, Aug. 1. Philadelphia, and . Beading, Jersey
Central and Baltimore and Ohio railroads haveiippealed to tho Super
ior Court from tho decisions of the Public Service Commlssfdn in the
dining car cases brought under the full crew law.
2129 BRITISH PRISONERS IN NEUTRAL COUNTRIES
.
LONDON, Aug. 1. British naval and military prisoners interned
in neutral countries number respectfully 165D and 474, it was stated
in Parliament this afternoon.
x
VIRGINIA FARMERS VIEW STATE'S FARMING METHODS
HABBISBUBG, Aug. 1. With a view of obtaining fir6t-hand
knowledge of modern farming methods ns practiced in Pennsylvania,
300 Virginia and West Virginia farmers are motoring leisurely
through Pennsylvania's richest agricultural section. They reached
Harrlsburg today and after visiting the Capitol went to Hcrshey and
later to Lancaster County.
DOYLE ASKS PRESIDENT'S INTERCESSION FORCASEMENT
WASHINGTON, Aug. 1. Another plea for President Wilson to
attempt to save Roger Casement, Irish leader, from death on a Brit
ish gallows was made this afternoon. Michael Francis Doyle, of
Philadelphia, who acted as advisory counsel for Casement during
tho latter's trial, 'conferred with Joseph P. Tumulty, telling him
that unless the American Government saved Casement he could not
possibly escape execution.
TELEGRAPHERS VIN WAGE INCREASE
NEW YOItK, Ausr. 1. The telegraphers of the New Vprk Central and Nickel
Plate Railroads today won their fight for an Increase of wages. An Increase of 8
per cent In pay Is granted to the telegraphers, who sought 15 per cent, on the
lines west of Buffalo. Those on the lines east of Buffalo, pleading for 1314 per
cent, were granted 10 per cent.
CLARKE TAKES HUGHES'S PLACE ON SUPREME BENCH
WASHINGTON, Aug. 1. Judge John H. Clarke, of Cleveland, today took the
oath of offlce as Justice of the Supreme Court of the United States to succeed
Charles Evans Hughes. The oath was administered by Chief Justice, Whlte, wljo
came from his summer home at Lake Placid, N, Y., to conduct the ceremony. Onljr
court officials witnessed the swearing In of the new Justice. Justice Clarke. left
Immediately after for Nantucket.
$576 IN DOPE DRUGS STOLEN BY BURGLARS
Burglars stole $576 worth of prohibited narcotics after breaking Into the whole
sale drug store of Ashenbach & Miller, 400 North Third street, gaining entrance by
the roof through the skylight. The Itemlxed loss was 28 ounces morphine, J126.50;
23 ounces of cocaine, 39140; 26H ounces of heroin, 1238.30; 28 ouucea of morphine
derivative, 3156:, gum and powdered opium. 161. The robbery was reported tto the
police today.
SECOND U. OF P. PROFESSOR RESIGNS FOR MORE PAY
Dr. Cart W. Gay, professor of animal Industry In the veterinary school of the.
University of Pennsylvania, today tendered his resignation to Provost Smith. He
has accepted an offer" of the University of Minnesota in. the same capacity. Doctor
Cay declared nothing Influenced his resignation except the offer of a better position.
He la a graduate of Cornell University and of the Iowa. Agricultural College, having
held chairs tabott. , mntm.,.nt
1010, i ins rcsuo Lxixjke Coxrixi.
NEWS
0 10 0 0 0 0 1 0 2 5 0
o 66'o;o oooo o 41
FIRST OF DOUBLE-HEADER
CHICAGO r h o a c
Zcidcr,3b 0 12 10
Flack.rf 0 10 0 0
Mnnn.U 0 13 0 0
Zimmerman, 2b.... 112 4 0
Kclly.cf 0 0 2 0 0
Snier.lb 0 0 11 1 0
Wortman, ss 112.20
Wilson.c 0 0 4 2 0
Lavender, p '. 0 0 13 0
Totals...' 2 5 27 13 0
I
PBIOE ONE CENT
MAYOR FIRM
IN HIS DEMAND
FOR CLEAN CITY
He Appears' Before' Grand
Jury in Vice Raid
Probe
RETICENT ON TESTIMONY,
Schedule of Witnesses
for Today's Vice Probe
MAYOR SMITH took the stand
and explained police activities.
Members of Republican Commit
tees of Tenth, Thirteenth and Four
teenth Wards will testify today.
Magistrate Pennock to testify.
Superintendent Robinson to ex
plain his actions in ordering rein
statement of gambling machines.
Police lieutenants and detectives
to be questioned regarding vico con
ditions. Desire to havo a clean city and learn
who was actually responsible for the ex
istence of 'vice and gambling was exe'r
clifod by Mayor Smith today when he ap
peared before the Grand Jury In the vice
investigation.
On leaving the jury room he declined to
answer any questions relative to his tes
timony bofore the Grand Jury or to dis
cuss what bearing the inquiry now under
way might havo upon his own plans for
purifying municipal conditions.
It had been reported about City Hall to
day that tho Mayor, independently of the
police 'and Grand Jury, was conducting an
Investigation of charges that vice was per
mitted to flourish In certain parts of the
city.
Upon returning to his offlce from the
Grand Jury rooms the Mayor was asked
polntblank If this report wero true. He
refused dlroct reply. "It would be inop
portune for me to answer that question at
this tlmo," the Mayor responded.
"Will you regard any recommendations
the Grand Jury may make? It is looked
upon as probable that the dismissal of
Superintendent Itoblnson will be asked,"
was suggested.
"It would bo discourteous for me to make
any statement at this time, or to discuss
any question or answer forming part of my
testimony whe before the Grand Jury,1?
replied, the. Mayor. "It is my serious Inten
tion to get fo the bottom of' facta In this
matter, but t regard it as a discourtesy t
tho Grand Jury to do or say anything la
connection with its (proceedings until the
jury Itself has acted.
It Is understood that tho Grand Jury has
traced the responsibility in several Instances
for conditions In the Tenderloin, and It Is
believed- that the Jurymen can end their
work this week by holding night sessions.
Permission to do this has been granted
by Judge Rogers and the Jurors are now
considering the advisability of working
overtime in order to clean up the investiga
tion and have their presentment ready this
week. ' .
The appearance of the Mayor and nu
merouaward leaders and division workers
of the Tenderloin, who will fojlow him to
day In the vice investigation, attracted aa
Immense crowd to City Hall.
Those who control the divisions In this
district, small-fry political workers and
others whose faces are familiar In the cen
tral police courts are waiting anxiously to
hear the outcome of today's session, which
promises to be the most .strenuous of any
held so far. ,
Many were apparently worried by the
Mayor's announcement that he wanted the
truth no matter whom It hurt or com
mended. That there will be general show
down and a laying of cards on-the table
Is the prediction of those who have bee
watching the developments closely.
MAYOU CONFERS WITH ROTAN.
Before entering the Jury room the Mayor?
held a lengthy conference with District At
torney Rotan. The latter accompanied him
before the Jury. It was noticed that the
Mayor carried a large bXuidle of papers,
many of which, it is said, were reports at.
the various Tenderloin police stations.
Politicians who profess to know pre
dicted that the investigation would end Fri
day, and that many concerned would be let
dieted that the Investigation would be le
down easily, Their prediction is based on
yesterday's alibis made by Police Super
intendent Robinson concerning the return of
slot machines which had been returned by
the police and the declaration of Captain
McFadden that Robinson was not to blame
for the delay In Issuing -gry-jjL fw V
gamblers. t-., 2v
Robinson Is expected to go onwSMtl
today and will explain. It Is said, that the
lot machines seized In the house on Ridge
avenue were returned because their owner
had not used them In the last four years,
DesDlte this expected ailbl, however. It,
is pointed out by those who have beea
following the probe that there is a law
which provides that the police shall retain
possession of all gambling paraphernalia
found In a place and selxe such game or
device with or without warrant and arrest
without warrant any person settinjr up
such a game.
This law shows. It is contended, that
there was no ntceaslty f8r warrants la
the Ridge avenue case nor any Vxcui forT ;
returning the machines to the ownor. f , i
This afternoon the Jury subpoenaed thr4 jk
more witnesses w usury in conneciioi -wjjp m
Barrett, of the Frankford station, ae&tifS
graft in connection with a carnival 1 tiSt.'
neighborhood. ' ."? '
Among tho-o who nave imMmmmm .-:
are (rpatf resuv ' J4w H. JC SMIMHM. "
W. CunrJniaw. Clik of tril)Fmtmmm -Court,
ai.d a rtjbt-hai jeitower vf 'fcsjpftf
MeNtoJwt
Job- . FUierty, fewswr Mil t Wt
c
' i
.Al
f
i
o
-at-.
