HIZONA BMP'
AM INDEPENDENT PROGRESSIVE JOURNAL
TWENTY-SEVENTH YEAH
8 PAGES
PHOENIX, ARIZONA, TUESDAY MORNING, AUGUST 1, 19 1G
8 PAGES
VOL. XXVTT, XO. 73
THE
A
MUGMES
IS
NQHNAT
CANDIDATE IN .ACCEPT
ASSAILS AD
MIN
COURSE IN FOR
Republican A. P. Leased Wire -
NEW YORK, July 31 Charles E.
Unfiles tonight outlined In his speech
nf acceptance, the issues upon which
he will conduct his campaign fur the
presidency.
Mr. Hushes assailed the administra
tion for the course it has pursued with
reference to Mexico,' maintenance of
American rights during the Kuropean
wai, preparedness anil other great
questions of the day. Jle declared for
a new policy of "firmness and con
sistency" toward Mexico, for "the un
flinching maintainance of all American
rights on land and sea," and "for ad
equate national defense, adequate pro
tection on both our western and east
ern coasts."
"We denounce all plots and conspir
acies in the interest of any foreign na
tion." Mr. Hughes said. "Utterly in
tolerable is the use of our soil for
alien intrigues. livery American mast
tint eservedly condemn them and sup
port every effort for their suppres
sion.'' The nominee assailed the adminis
tration for its "direction of diplomatic
intercourse," from the beginning, de
claring that where there should have
been conspicuous strength and expert
ness there had been weakness and in
expertness. He cited Santo I lomingo
as an instance where amioinunents
had gone to "deserving democrats,"
and to Die failure to continue Ambas
sador Derrick at his post in Paris af
ter the war had started as "a lament
able sacrifice of international impute."
"I endorse the declaration in the
platform in favor of woman suffrage."
Mr. Hughes declared. And, he aflded,
opposition may delay, but in my judg
ment cannot defeat this movement. I
favor the vote for women.
line-fourth of the .speech was de
voted to Mexico. Sten after step tak
en by the administration with refer
ence to Mexico wis assailed, from the
days of Huerta to the note sent the de
facto government by the state depart
ment June 2n last, part of which was
contained in the speech.
The seizure of Vera Cruz, the nom
inee said, "'was war, of course."
"Later we retired from Vera Cruz,"
he eorniimed. - "reiving up this noble
warfare. Recently the naked truth was
admitted by a cabinet officer. We are
now informed that we did not go to
Vera Cruz to force Huerta to salute
the flag. We are told that we went
thoje to show Mexico that we were in
earnest In our demand thnt Huerta
must go.' "
"America." Mr. Hughes continued,
"has no policy of aggression toward
Mexico, no desire fur any part of her
territory, but wishes her to have peace,
stability and prosperity."
"The conduct of the administration
lias created difficulties we shall have
to surmount.'' he said. "We demand
Vrom Mexico the protection of the lives
and property of our citizens and the
security of our border trom depreda
tions." Safeguarding American rights
abroad had not been accomplished by
the administration, he said.
The nominee reiterated his declara
tion that had this government left tin
doubt that it meant to hold Germany
to "strict accountability," there would
have been no loss of life on the Lns-
itania.
Discussing preparedness, Mr. Hughes
said it was apparent that the United
Stales was "shockingly unprepared." '
"The administration has failed to
discharge its responsibilities," Mr.
Hughes continued. "Apparently it is
now seeking to meet political exigen
cies by its naval program. Hut it has
imposed 'on the country an incompe
tent naval administration.
"We demand adequate protection on
both our western and eastern coast.
We demand thoroughness and effi
ciency in both arms of the service. It
seems to be plain that our regular ar-
. my is too small. We are too great a
country to require of our citizens who
are engaged in peaceful vocations the
sort of military service to which they
are now called."
Of - the present prosperity Mr.
. Hughes said: "We are living in a fool's
paradise." It is, he said, a prosperity
brought about by the abnormal condi
tions of war. For the protection of the
"iNG
ISTRATION'S i
......
EIGN AFFAIRS
. . ; . . . . !
ill I 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 IJUl I I I 1 1 1 I I I 1 1 1 1 1 I
yc - . -
I ' St. "('':...'" A :? :" S3:" -J
M mini 1 '-r .::
' v r?, , t y',
Charles Hughes.
7
7
7
7
7
Mil ROOSEVELT SUS
TI I 1
Bandits Cross Line; Slay Two Americans
YUMA VISITED BY
ELECTRICAL STORM
YI'MA, Ariz. July SI. One of
the worst electric and rainstorm:!
in years occurred here latetoday
causing an estimated loss of thous
ands of dollars to alfalfa and
other crops being harvested in the
vicinity. Nearly an inch of rain
fell within half an hour, the-tem-peratiire
dropping from lot; to 74.
Telegraph and telephone lines were
put out of order for several hours.
It was not believed the irrigation
I system supplying Yuma valley was
damaged.
ALLIES MAINTAINING
UNCEASING PRESSURE
ON BOTH WAR FRONTS
Bjeh officials
be accused of
manslaughter
P,riiish and French Armies
Start Fresh Combined At
tack From Delville Wood
to Somme and Make
l)ored ' Progress
CA10I1ND
Republican A. P. Leased Wire j nation by the manner in which he al
NEW YOUK. July .11. "It was an I lowed foreign powers to gain the irn
admirable speech and I wish to call at-1 pj-ession that, although! he used the
strongest words in diplomacy, they
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
Ni:V YORK. July XL President
K. P. Thomas of Hie Lehigh Valley
railroad and President W. ('.. Hesler,
of the Centra' railroad of .v Jersey,
probabh will" be arrested on charges
of manslaughter in connelioii with
f-xphe ioii on lllai k Tom island early
Sunday morning, it was uunounced
ljte tonight by FianU liamie, com-mis'-ioner
if piiblie safety of New;
Jersey. Three officials of companies
situated on Pluck Tom island are al
ready under arrest. The charge has
been preferred against all.
The New Jersey City authorities
alive announced their determination
to make nnM:ssible a repetition of thei
disaster. They declared large quant-1
itis of cxplo.siw.s slioald not be hand
led in such a densely jtoiinlaleil dis
trict as surrounds New York haroor.
Fire broke t.a'.t again today among
the rnit.s left by Sunday morning'
explosion.
llalf the fire department of Jersey
ii'itv with file boats from 'New ork
nd New Jersey fought the flames
' which centered about the pier where
larfe q'lantilies of shrapnel and
'hells were stored. Shells exploded in
an oliiitt-t continuous cannonade.
Meanwhile with thre omcers of
corpoiations doing li;siness on the
il.md under nrriit and a warralit
out for a fourth. prejiral ions were
under way at Jersey City for a Joint
federal, state, county, and municipal
im esi iir ition to fix the blame for Sun
day's disaster which killed at hast
three nun. injured scores and caused
approximately $Ju,ui'U,(itiu property
damage. j
The theory that the fire which
atised the disastrous explosion start
ed on a munitions barge, tied up at
the island, was cornbatted today by
Robert S. Hudspeth, prosecutor for
Hudson companx. and Ttieo. 1!. John
son. president of the Johnson Light
er, 'lire Company, owner of the baige.
I'oth declared the fire originated In
two I.cHgh Valley lailroad freight
cats laden with explosives.
Johnson who was arrested on a
warrant charging manslaughter, as
were Albert M. Hickman lilack Tom
agent of the Lehigh Valley and Alex
nn.ler Daeidson, sniK'rintendent of
the National Storage CmniMitiy denied
(ill riMiionsifiility f,,r w conflagration.
He intimated that the fire was of in
cemliarv origin.
I 'roseeuior Hudstieth corroltrirated
Johnson's stor. He said he had ob
tained an affidavit from the com
mander of the tu
a compi ehensive story of the disaster
BRINGS BELIEF
tehtion to the following points, said
Colonel Roosevelt in a statement is
sued after the meeting at which
Charles K. Hughes was notified of his
nomination as the Republican candi
date for president.
"I am particularly pleased with the
exii)sure of the folly and worse than
folly of Mr., (Wilson's Mexican policy
and of the way In which his policy
has brought humiliation to the United
States and disaster to Mexico itself.
"Moreover, I am very glad of the
straightforward manner in which Mr.
Hughes has shown the ridicule with
which Mr. Wilson hr-a covered this
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
LONDON, July 31. The entente
allies maintain unceasing pres
ure both pn the western and east
ern fronts, as weN as the Italians
on the Austrian' front, and heavy
battles are being fought in all
theaters.
The British and French started
a fresh combined attack on Sun
day from Delville wood to the
Somme and made dogged progress,
which brought them near the vil
lage of Maurepas. The misty
weather which has hindered the
operations has given place to clear
ckies, with intense heat. The Ger
mans are making the most deter
mined counter attacks and of
ficially claim that the entente allies
have not gained a foot of ground
by Sunday s attacks.
The Russians are continuing
their successes, and notwithstand
ing the strongest German resist
ance, are pressing ever closer to
Kovel. According to tonight's un
otficial news, they are across the
Stokhod, over the whole stretch
between the Kovel-Sarny and
Kovel-Rojitsche railroads.
General Letchitzky, whose op
erations were suspended by the
Dniester floods, is moving again
and working toward Stanislau, an
other important railway center.
The eastet ii and southeastern coun
ties of Kngland had a visitation from
lo-rman airships late last night, and
at this hour the attack is still pro
ceeding. An official communication
Just issued, says:
"An attack by a number of hostile
airships developed before midnight.
The raiders are reported as having
crossed the coast line along the east
ern and southeastern counties. Bombs
were dropped off the Thames estu
ary. "The attack is proceeding."
Another official communication is
sued early this morning says: "The
raiders seem to have spent time cruis
ing over the counties of Lincolnshire,
Norfolk, Suffolk, Cambridge, Essex,
Kent and Huntington.
"Ilombs were dropped somewhat in
discriminately over localities possess
ing military importance. Our an;r
aircraft guns came into action, it is
believed, with good effect. Full de
tail nf lll raid lire no! vet nt lianil "
The I Hitch mail steamship Koetiingin ',.ll'r') th:it
Wilhelinina lias.xtruck a mine near the ! -,l"-('"U-
North Hinder liu-litshio. savs a dis- l nmi(lie,
patch from The Hague ti Reuters
(Continued on Page Three)
IT BT
THREE MEXICAN
BAITS
S
LAN
T
ME CHASED
Republican A. P. Leasee Wire
EL PASO. Texas, July 31. Carran
za soldiers and customs guards are
tonight pursuing two of the five
Mexican pandits who crossed the
American border today and fought
with a detail of the Eighth United
States cavalry reinforced by a de
tachment of Mexican troops, killing
two Americans and wounding a third,
into the desert south of San Ignacio,'
t 'hihnfthn
'Republican A. P. Leased Wire Reports from Captain Marcelo Mar-
WASHlNGTi iN, July 31. A Cana- ullo. commanding the detachment.
dian high pressure tirea bringing down composed of about six soldiers and
cool and dry air from the Canadian six .Mexican customs guards, received
northwest swept alohg the whole ofiin Juarez tonight said that the out-
the northern United States today and laws were last seen about eight miles
afforded some relief from the heat south of Uie American frontier. He
wave, which has been the worst in fit- added that indications tlit at least
teen years. Roughly, the new high one of the two fugitives is wounded,
pressure area brought a drop in tern- were ccntained in the discovery of
perattire everywhere north of a line hl'Kid spots on the sand and upon
drawn west from New York. Below clump of mesituitt near which they
this line its effects were felt in some apparently stopped to rest"
districts with a change of a few de- At the For: liliss hospital, whero
grees. Sergeant Lewis Thompson, of Bloss-
The "Rermuila high" which for the burg. was taken suffering from
past ten days has been sweeping upa bullet wound in the left shoulder it
currents of hot. water laden air from was asserted that his condition la
the tropics over the whole of continen-1 n" dangerous. The bodies of Private
tal United States showed signs today ! Jllhn Twoney. of Paterson, N. J., and
of having prettv well spent itself. Hubert Wi od. a United States cus
j Likewse the high pressure area w hich I lomK inspector, killed in the engage-
tiniught retier to the Atlantic sea board j "' iouei.i nr.c lomgm.
from Hudson Pay otr the week-end I ood, who lived at Fort Hancock,
a nauve or
lie entered
has been dissipated.
Weather bureau officials said today
that while the great central section of;
the country had had the hottest period
since p. (Ml, the Atlantic seaboard hard
ly had been touched by real summer.
Hottest Da of Year
N RYV YORK. July 31. This was the
hottest day of the year in New York
was i'i years old nd
Striw'ieriy Point, Iowa.
the government service Last Saturday
and began his work, only a few hours
bi fore he was killed.
At military headquarters here and
in Juarez, rwlief was expressed tonight
that the I audit chase would not con
tinue long, it being pointed out that
the bandits are fleeing afoot across
The
Moi
mercury reached
than a score of
P.
were
at 3:30
1'i'i.iii.afii. r.urMiie nuiiiiuity, wiucu'
reached Sit, added to the suffering of
the city.
The local weather forecaster de
clared this afternoon that relief is ex
peeled from tliundershowers tonight.
Cooler in Chicago
CHICAGO, Jiy 31. The torrid heat
that has enveloped the central west for
the last few days, gave way today to
cool breezes while showers in some
portions of Hie Mississippi valley
broke a drought of several weeks' du
ration. Towa, Kansas and Missouri are
slilL suffering from the hot wave but
arc promised relief by the weather ex
pert by tomorrow.
Peoria. III., reported a rainstorm
did damage estimated
Iowa, reportod six deaths
on used by heat while St. Lor re
ported five deaths and many prostrations.
ruins and
obliterated, premier Hearst announced
tonight that 1S4 ersons lost their lives
in the forest fires in northern i ntar
io. Only a heavy rainfall early to-
Oei.evrt which gave, day probably saved a part of the prov
ince from destruction. Hundreds are
Accenting ;o the alfidavit and oth- homeless and the dominion govern
or evidence." said the i rosecutor. "the ment has taken extraordinary meas
ures to provide for the refugees.
Where the town of Matheson once
HUNDREDS HOMELESS .
Republican A. P. Leased Wire i rane remain- standing. The greatest
TORONTO, Out., July 31. With one loss of life occurred at Nushka and
town wiped out. another almost in Monteith, partly in ruins, where SS
score of small settlements j persons were burned to death. At
Matheson 3 perished. Iroquois Falls,
pruwd aroso and cheered
lndiiKtrle nnri workinemcn of the
Uhited Hlates against the competition and the
of "an energized Europe," Mr. Hughes again.
said it was plain that we must have Mr. Hughes was frecpiently Inter
protectlve upbuilding policies, other rupted by laughter and applause,
measures,- too, should be applied, he, .After delivering his speech, hp was
naid. notably the upbuilding of a mer-1 at a reception to the notification corn
chant marine. imlttee and the Invited guests to the
"To make peace lasting and effect-
Ive whei the present war
Mr. Hughes advocated the
, of an International tribunal to dispose
' of controversies, a Justiciable sort,
backed by the eo-operation of the na
tions to prevent war before peaceful
methods of adjustment end.
Mr. Hughes also declared for the
"conservation of the Just Interests of
labor," for conservation of natural re
sources and for a national budget.
"Our opponents promised economy
lint they have shown a reckless extrav
agance. It is time we had riscai re
form." Mr. Hughes closed w'th nn endorse,-'
Tnent of the republican platform,
ndopted by the national convention
and a formal acceptance of the nom
ination. The larire audience which crowded
Carnegie Hall to capacity cheered for
several minuted when M- Hughes ap
peared nhortly after 8 o'clock
The nominee rcotrnlzed Theodore
V.oievelt In one of the boxes, waved to
him and Mr. Roosevelt clapped his
h;"-cs In acknowledgment.
See a tor Hiding of Ohio, chairman
of the notification committee, was
cheered at every reference to the name
of the nominee ,md a republican- vic-
torv In November.
When he finished the band played
and effect- ceremony.
shall end, I ' he speecn oi Air. Mugnes rouows in
form:! 1 'n in ' full:
senator tiaruing, memners oi me i
notification committee and fellow,
citizens- I
"This occasion is more than a mere
ceremony of notification. We are
not here to indulge in formal expres- I
sions. We cr.me to rtate in a plain
and direct manner our faith, our pur
pose and our pledge. This represen
tative gathering in a happy augury
1 It mens the strength of re-unlon. It
means that the party of Linelon Is
restored, alert, effective. It menn'i
! the unity of a common perception of
pa'-amomrt national needs. It means
that we are neither deceived nor bo
niunbored bv abnormal conditions. "We
know that we are in a critical per
iod, perhaps more critical than tiny
pi rind since the Civil War. We need
a dominant sense of national -unity;
the' exdroise of our best constructive
powers; the vigdr anil resourcef illness
of uia; America. We desire that
the republican party as a great liberal
party shall be the agency of national
achievement, the organ of the effec
tive expression of dominant Ameri
canism. Wiiat do I mean' by that'.' I
mean America, conscious of power,
awake to obligation, erect in self re-
,1
(Continued on Page Two;
were not to be taken seriously.
"Mr. Hughes also speaks in charac
teristically straightforward fashion of
the outrages committed on munitions
plants and all men, whether citizens of
foreign nations or national citizens of
our land who bad in any shape or way
abetted or condoned these actions, can
understand tiat Mr. Hughes, if pres
ident, will prilled these domestic am
munition interests and punish i offen
ders against them with the fearless
ness and thoroughness that he showed
In dealing with the power of evil at
Albany.
"Just before coming in to listen to
Mr. Hughes characterization of Mr.
Wilson s failure to protect the lives
and property of Americans in Mexico
and on the high seas. I happened to
look up 'John Fisko's critical period of
American history,' and was struck by
the following two sentences:
"A government touches the lowest
point of ignominy when it confesses
its inability to protect the lives and
property of its citizens."
"A government which has come to
this has failed in discharging the pri
mary function of government and
forthwith ceases to have any reason
for existing."
"Mr. Hughes has pointed out in his
apeech with self restrrrint but with
emphasis, that it is precisely this pri
mary function which Mr. Wilson's ad
ministration has failed to discharge
and that it is precisely this point of
Ignominy to which he has reduced the
nation over which he is president."
When Mr. Hughes appeared on the
dage with Senator Warren G. Hard
Ing. chairman of the notification com
miltee he was greeted with enthusias
tic applause bv a crowd which packed
the big hall. On the platform wnn me
nominee were many of the most prom
Inent republicans in the country and
manv more were in the boxes. Those
on the platform included delegates and
alternate!! to the national convention
members of committees, senators and
leoresentatives. There also was a lib
"rul Riirinkling of men who had been
leaders in the progressive party in ad
rlit ion in Colonel Roosevelt who was
warmly LTeeted when he appeared in
the box assigned to him.
!ir started two hm.rs before 'he
Johnson barge was destroyed and it
was not this barge that caused the
great explosion. The fire spread from
freight cars to warebousus and the
barge."
Mr. Hudspclh deJared three-fifths
of-thi explosives 'supposed for the
entente allies posed through Jersey
stood tonight theoe are only smolder
ing ruins and asls. The country sur
rounding is as barren as a desert. Only
a few structures in the viiinge of Coch-
where great paper mills are located
was not entirely burned as reported
last night. The paper mills and one
store were saved from the flames.
There was no serious damage at
Knglehart, although one or two fires
occurred. At Timmins, seventeen
houses were burned down.
"The relief work throughout the dis
trict is well in hand," said the premier
tonight. "Everything pos-sible is be
ing done. We will spare no expense to
give the necessary relief."
(Continued on Page Three)
o
Dentschland Is
To Leave Within
Next Few Honrs
SNIPING F001 MEXICAN SIDE
IS OF NIGHTLY OCCURRENCE
Republican A. P. Lease t Wire
BALTIMORE, July 31. The German
submarine Deutschland will leave Hal-!
timore on her return voyage to Ocr-1
many some time within the next 21
hours, unless plana made today are al
tered. Information to this effect was
received tonight Crom a trustworthy
source.
The exact time of departure was
said not to have been determined upon.
Captain Paul Koenig, master of tho
sub-sea freighter himself will decide
when his vessel shall be pulled into
stream from the pier to which she has
been moored for three weeks.
Today was one of great activity at
the pier. A large barge which had
blocked the entrance to the Deutsch
land's slip was moved away to an
other pier.
ballast the
Germany. It consists of pig iron and
has been sold to a Paltimore dealer. I
The tug Thomas F. Timmiiis, which!
met the Deutschland 'at the Virginia i
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
DOUGLAS, Ariz., July 31. Reports,
of sniping from the Mexico side of the
boundary at sentries of the Second
Montana infantry have been "brought
to the attention of Rrigadier General
T. F. Davis, commanding the Arizona
district, who has ordered an investiga
tion. Five shots were fired across the bor
der last night at one sentry, it was
stated at the Montana camp two miles
west of Douglas today, one striking at
the feet of one of the men on duty.
The American sentries made, no reply,
as the shots were apparently fired
from a distance of seven or eight hun
dred yards.
The sniping, which has become a
nightly occurrence, is ascribed in
American military circles to a new
Sonora counter-revolutionary party. In
their anxiety to secure the overthrow
military police are said to have secured
strong evidence of their guilt.
American customs officials seized
four iard cans filled with whiskey
being shipped from Douglas to Naeo
zari. Sonora, when one of the Soldiers
on border guard duty plunged his bay
onet into the Iard and broke a bottle
of the liquor. Investigation showed
that each or the cans contained a case
of whiskey packed in flour to prevent
breakage and with a coating of Iard
over all.
ine desert, w.nch affords little water
jiei ii' f moil, wiaie ineir pursuers are
11 mounted and heavil armed.
At military headquarters here an
nouncement was made that in view of
he fart that the Mexican troops co
operated actively in the engagement
with the American detachment and
is making a vigorous pursuit of the
outlaws, no I.'nited States troops will
cross t'ie border. v
Troops E.. L.. and II. of the Eighth'
cavalry at Fort Liliss, ordered under
arms iody, later were ordered t"
their barracks, General Bell asserting
that the garrison of sixty men at
Fort Hancock, composed of eighteen
cavalrymen and a detachment of the
Eighth .Massachusetts Is adequate to
cne with any possible emergency,.
Detailed reports of the engagement
received here - lonifht hv c.e
at j George Bell. Jr., commanding the Ei
Paso military district, indicated that
fai'iei reports that Lieutenant Charles
Telford was in personal command of
the detiichment of his troops engage.?
were erroneous.
Private Francis E. Sheain. of Balti
more 11,1. of the hospital corps who
brought Sergeant Thompson to the
Fort P.liss hospital made a personal
report to General Bell.
"We left Hancock at 4 o'clock this
morning," said Sheain. "with a de
tachment of six cavalrymen, besides
myself. Lieutenant Telford and the
two customs inspectors, Wood and,
Be:n.
"Afler riding southeast about fiver
miles we approached a hut on a
rough mesr. covered with willow and
mesquite and near the river. Here
iwo or the cavalry men dropped be
hind as horse holders and the rest of
us went on r.foot. Inspector Wood.
Sergcnat Thompson and Private
Twoney were sent off to the rirht. and
Inppctoi Henn and Private Stofke,
Kaufman and myself went to the left
"V.'e lay under mesquite bushes for
a while, w:tching the house but could"
not see a sign of life Then we all
moved up to about 25 yards. A dog
came out the buck door, and pretty
soon I saw a man's back.
"Bean now moved up to the house,
and the rest of us followed. He call
ed out something in Spanish and an
old man came out and answered.
Hean told us a bandit was in there.
"At that moment, I heard the click'
of a shell being slipped into a gun.
I jumped around the corner of the
hut. A big Mexican with bandoliers
swung across his shoulders steppec"
out quicklv and raised his gun et
Wood. I tried to beat him to if nn'
so did Wood. Put he got in a' sec
ond too' sooa and Wood fell Th.,
mexican ren at my first shot,
finished him with a second
"I drepped back and began firing
at the house, and the house and the
two adobe sheds when I heard Thomp
son cry. 'They've got me. doc'
"I di-rgged Thompson behind a mes-
and I
(Continued on Page Three)
Aboard the barge mm the I l"e t arranza government and bring
Deiitsebhmil brought from : about intervention, members of this
lacLioo lie wtiu 10 sup across i lie oor
der from Douglas nightly and hold
meetings about a milo west of Agua
Prieta.
capes upon her arrival and which has1 11 '" 'eporieu on rename auinoruy
stood 'guard over her ever since took I that tllfi Mexican officials have been
on as much coal as she could carry, i informed of the plot and their capture
Her bunkers were filled and bags were' he followed by immediate execu
piled upon every available portion ofi1'1"1- il waH sail1-
the deck. Upon her return from the I Steve Nagy and Arthur G. Eastland,
coaling pier the tug entered the log 'privates in Company K, Eighteenth in
barrier around the Deutschland stern fantry, were surrendered to the civil
first and came to a slop in a position t authorities today by the regimental of
fmm which she oulcklv can nut aside! ficers, to stand trial on the charge of
one small flout and cast a tow line to',,"ldi"K "I1 1'i'rry R. Smith's grocery
the submarine. store on the night of July 15. The
Carrancista and American
V
Troops Fight Side By Side
Republican A. P. Leased Wire Woods, customs guard.
BAN ANTONIO, Tex., July 31. Car- The report to General Funston does
rancista and United States troops not make clear the manner in which
fought side by side ill the engagement the fight, which took place about 1:30
with Mexican bandits south of Fort,a. m began or does it indicate the ob
Hancock, Texas, early today, according ject of the bandits in crossing to the
to the official report from Rrigadier American side. General Funston said
General George Pell, Jr., at El Paso, to it was possible, however, that the ban
Major General Funston tonight. jdits when surprised by the Americans,
A Carranza captain and eight sol-1 were attempting to escape from the
diers responded to an appeal for aid ' Carrancistas, who later engaged them
from the American side of the Rio I in the battle. The latter had been In
Grande, the report says. The bandits
fled and retreated over the river, leav
ing four dead.
The American dead numbered two.
Private John Twoney; F. troop, Eighth
pursuit of the marauders for several
days.
The Carrancistas followed the es
caping bandits across the river. Gen
eral funston said no American troons
United States cavalry, and Robert would join the chase.
