MERoMsD
HOME EDITION
"WEATHER FOKECAST.
El ro and wrt Tesa, partly elmdy.
New Mexico, fair. Arizona. local Ihon
clrr sboYr.
LATEST NEWS BY ASSOCIATED PRESS.
EL PASO. TEXAS. TUESDAY EVENING. AUGUST 1. 1916.
DKLIVERKn ANYWHERE lc A M.'VTII
FOURTEEN PAGES TODAY".
UTI
CTSP
esult of Blast
TODAY'S PRICES
' -.ti Hark not tite bills. X2.
t--i " . . Mxnan gold, IS1!-;
r" lsX i'htt.u. rurrnv.
n-w 13 v- har fctlr If
- '- . I. . mpnrr. 50 27.
' ' 1 I n-t'rK -te.. stocks
EEemPA0 c
OLISH
" K ll A h! I Krlr
U a ii n n i-a
! GMHRTP
Urge Munition Embargo. R
U
rvns npifiRi O TIirC 1 HUfTC
4
UP
WOMAN
.r
Investigations Of The Black
Tom Island Disaster Will
Soon Tae Form.
ALL AREDENYING
RESPONSIBILITY
Representatives To Demand
That No More Munitions
Be Sent From Coast.
NEW
t.v
H.i
EW TORK, Aug. 1. Representa-
ives John J. Epran and James
Hanmel, of Xew Jersey, an
nounced this afternoon at the conclu-
Mon of a conference of city, counts',
dilate and federal officials about the
i:I:.ck Tom Island munitions explosicC war has elapsed. Like the first ai
HUD MS HE
MSMIIHH"
Urges People at Home as
1 Well as Army and Navy to
xtemam bteaaiast.
Berlin, Germany, Aug-. 1 tmpcor
William today sent a mfssagt to Ir.
von Bethmann-Holiwegr. the imperial
chancel or, in which he said.
"Still hard times are ahead. Aftr
the terrible storm of two years of wai,
a desire for sunshine and peace is stir-
rinp In all human hearts, but the war
continues because the battle cry of the
enemy governments is still the destruc
tion of Germany.
"Germany knows she is figrhtinc f r
her existence. She knows her strength
and she relies on God's help. We sh:i!i
bring: this struggle to such an end th.t.
our empire will be protected acain-'
future attack and that a free field v ,1
be assured for the peaceful developme it
of German gfnius and lanor.
"We shall live free, secare and Mro
among: the nations of the worla Thii
rieht nobody shall or will snatch fr-Ti
t us. I ask you to make this manifest.
I public"
KnrourneeN Army nnd ny.
Emperor William has issued t" f
. lowing proclamation to the c run i
1 forces on land and sea-
'Comrades, the second r of th
El Paso Lad Makes
Record Fish Catch
ii ! IMS WW3MIMillIl
r. TalalalalaHnaalalalalalaMaiMBp(te 3aE r9 JM 7
DECLARES EDI
EDIITE
SE
11
1
Republican Candidate Comes
Out For Amendment to
Constitution.
MOVE TO ENLIST
4,000,000 VOTES
Declaration Follows Previous
Assertion That the Vote
Should Be Granted.
FOUR MEXICANS SONDBA SNIPERS
KILLED IN FIGHT, flMTOOOPS
Fourth Bandit Believed to Mexicans Believed to Be
Have Died in Brush; 3 I Counter Revolutionaries,
Prisoners to Juarez. i
TY W Qflrs
Desiring Trouble.
At least four Mexicans are believe 1 ! Douglas. Ariz, Aug. 1 Mexicans be
to have been killed in the fight be- ! lieved to be counter revolutionary sym-
tween United States cavalry and Mexi- I pathlzers desirous of provoking tron-
i .. .i r ? . If T- ' . . . . . ......-..-.. . . .
t.ie Detween tne united states ana me
Carranza government, are firing nlght-
NEW ".
Hug
a me i
flat they would go to Washington t.f
raorrow, accompanied by mayor Fagan,
of Jersev City, to demand an embargo
vn the export of munitions from Atlan
tic cost ports.
Fire broke out again Monday among
the ruins left by Sunday morning's ex
ploMon on Black Tom Island.
Half the fire department of Jersey
.. 1 1 uiui iiie ifuii.5 irum t:w 2 urn. aim
New Jrsv fought the flames which
krerieieu about the pier where large
"oititis tf shrapnel and shells were
ST,"'t Shell- exploded in an almost
c utr uou ra'inunade.
Inentlatlon PJannrd.
Mn while v.itfa three officers of cor
porations doing business on the island
nr.de a: rest and a warrant out for a
fourth, preparations were under way at
.jersev 1 uv for a joint federal, state.
ro'iiHv ar.d municipal investigation to
i"-x the blame for Sunday's disaster
fruii-h killed at least three men. injured
- ores aiu causea approximately -u,-t'OO.OUO
property damage.
start fd In Freight Car?
The 1 henry that the fire which caused
the disastrous explosion started on a
mur,ui"ns bare. tied up at the island,
v as (ombatted by Robert S. Tludpeth,
croseut'- for Hudson tounty, and Thos.
B J.j'ir-on, pieeident of the Johnson
J-ighit ,-9ge ompan. owner of the
f!arge P.th declared the fire originated
in two I?hih Valley railroad freight
tars Jaiiii with explosives.
Urn lew IlrNpttnuiliillt
Johnson, who was arrested on a war
rnt nhargmg manslauirhter. as were
Llbert M. Dn kman. Black Tom agent
of the i-enigh alley anc Alexander
lavidEon. superintendent of the Na
tional Storage ompan. denied all re
ppons.bilitv of the conflagration. He in
t.m ited that the fire was of incendiary
one .r
T-. fa. cjto Hudspeth corroborated
Jo MM.n's Etor He fcaid he had ob
tained an affidct it from The commander
of the tuR 'Je.-fva. whi h gae a com
prehf j s". sfry of the disaster
1, rtriTlO- Ifi th ifflvlll'it qnl Atlii-
Twier e sai.l the pros- utor. "the fire,
-ta re I Tw h jr- before the Johnson
ba.re u i iie-rr.i.p(j and it was not this
baige tha- Hie. the xr?iT explosion.
Th- -e ",- e 1 f .-n Trmht cars to
wu. uses ai"J tne hre'
it was for Germany arms a ar
glory. On all fronts yon inflict-d nt
and heavy blows on the ftxemy. '
"But the strength and will of vhe i
enemy are not yet broken
"Whether the enemy waM wr n ri
the forces of arms or with .'old cai. '
lating malice, we shall continue as e
fore into the third year of the war.
"Main Headquarters
"Wilhelm."
I ItKI) AtJIITI.OCK 4M MTi:it.
m
is 10
LEffi LEMBERG
London. Eng . Aug. 1. Teleijratii
from Vienna say that the Austro-Hmi-garians
have made all preparations 1-r
the evacuation of Lemberg. the Gali
cian capitol. says a diepatch from Co
penhagen to the Exchange Telesraph
company
BUS ELEffl
FID!
m m
Berhi tie-in u. Aug I Carina n
troops have mvn thf British forces
out of Foureaux wood in the region of
i 'e- Soinme in Fraiife. it was
bffi ' ilH aimoumcJ touav b German
h1 ",,ua rter
Op tn. er-stf-rn front, the German
ofriesil at-in nt sa . the Russia rs
i vrw tXJia ii"-i mm minivey aaini me
'5pe'm-' lire on the Stokhod river in
volhyma. in fruitless attacks.
GERMANY SAYS" EXECUTION
OF CAPT. FRYATT WAS LEGAL
Brrl:r Germany, Aug. 1. The Ger
man a-i : i .lit-. . in a statement given
out f-e-e. ''.e 1 ires the execution of Capt.
Krvatt tne Pntish liner commander,
EUROPEAN MAKERS HAVE BIG
RUSH ON ARTIFICIAL LIMBS
Paris, France, Aug. 1. One armed
and one legged men are now so common
as to raise a question as to nh. the
are so numerous.
Dr. Auguste Broca, while admitting
that the changed conditions of warfare
and the scale of the operations must
necessarily multiply the number of am
putated limbs, claims that a considera
ble part of the increase in the propor
tion of survivors who lack a member
is due to the progress of surgery since
thf war of 1ST; in that conflict nearly
all the amputated men died of puru
lent infection, in this war. thanks to
progress in medical science, they are
nearly all saved, he sajs.
In consequence, th demands upon
manufacturers of artificial limbs are
out of all proportion to anticipations.
Ir. Broca considers that the construc
tors of artificial substitutes for ni-m-bers
or parts of members have alo
made great progress Before the war
a really efficient artificial member was
an object of luxury; under the stress
of circumstances, manufacturers have
to a great extent obliterated the dis
tinction between the rich man's and the
poor man's apparatus. Not that there
h. "een an modification in prices;
r.one of the efficient models are cheap.
merican systems are much in favor
j but are not universally applicable be
j ause thev do not adapt themsele.i to
, the transitory period in which an am
1 putated member must adapt itself
somewhat to the apparatus.
FREE BELGIUM AND POLAND,
IS SOCIALIST DOCTRINE
London. Kng , Aug. 1. The complete
I'red Mr, ' i ',1 -.n f
n. A. "WhHlix-k. v ho res.des at 1J""
Arizona tr -t, p?-le an r,i.uual sum-
r er M:--h off tue cnt of Long Beach.
f'.ilif. last Thurvlaj
VI ihIp out on a fist.:.!; uip with hi
father ami a P-irt of friends -n the
"Tillikum." Master Fred landed two J 7
iwund alhatros. a feat which would
have been .-iwitful to the eldest fih
fntian m th part and was the f rst
rtember to make a haul
Ke-i the smitl sister displaced hi $
appreciation of her brother victory
by dancing happily about him a he
pioudly held up his t-atih on stepping
tc shore
The family are stopping at the" Pana
ma apartment in Look Beach, antici
pating many pleasant experiences dur
ing their sttv in California, which will
'ast several week-
YORK. Aug. 1. Charles E.
bes today declared for an
ndment to the federal con
stitution providing for woman suffrage.
Mr. Hughes's views on the subject
were made public in a letter he has
written to senator Sutherland, of Utah.
This declaration by Mr. Hughes is
expected to immediately line up for him
the votes of 4. 000,000 women of suf
frage states, whose leadership is
claimed by the Woman's party. The
Toman's party claims to represent
sufficient votes in the electoral college
to elect or defeat either of the ctfndi-
can bandits south of Fort Hancock
Monday morning.
Three bodies were found near 'he
ranch house where the fight occurred.
It is believed by officers of the troop
that a fourth was hit and crawled ofr
into the brush and died while a fifth
is said to have escaped across the
tiver. This fifth is reported to have
lxen shot and killed by the Carranza
fiscal guards on the Mexican side of
the river although no report of this
killing has yet been made to Gen.
Gonzales in Juarez.
Only Five of Band.
It Is now well established that there
were only five of the Mexicans In the
bandit band who were In hiding at th
Mexican hut. The original band Is said
to have numbered eight but three were
said to have been captured near San
Ignacio Saturday night and are to bo
brought to Juarez where they will
probably be shot at a public execu
tion. Gen. Gonzales has not yet received a
report from Capt. Marcello Murruyo,
who commands the troops in the vicin
ity of San Ignacio and It is believed
that he is bringing the prisoners to
Juarez in person. "I do not know what
disposition will be made of the men
when they arrive." Gen. Gonzales said
Tuesday morning. "I have not yet
received orders from Chiuhahua City
regarding them."
Itelnforcementu at Ft. Hancock.
Sergt. Nelson, of troop F. Eighth
dates of the major parties.
The declaration by Mr. Hughes is in 1 ca airy, has been sent to Fort Hancock
line with his assertion in his speech i
ly upon border patrols of the Second
Montana infantry, according to report
made to Brig. Gen. T. F. Davis, com
manding this district.
In their anxiety to secure the over
throw of the Carranza government and
bring about intervention. Mexicans are
said to slip across the border from
Douglas nightly and hold meetings
pbout a mile west of Agua Pxleta.
It Is reported on reliable authority
that the Mexican officials have been
informed of the plot and their capture
will be followed by immediate exe
sution, it was stated.
Steve Nagey and Arthur G. Eastland,
riivates In company K. ISth Infantry,
tttre surrendered to the civil authori
ties Monday by the regimental offi
cers, to stand trial on the charge of
holding up Terry R. Smith's grocery
store on the night of July IS. The
military police are said to have se
cured evidence of their guilt.
American customs officials seized
fcur lard cans, filed with vhisky oe
ing shipped from Douglas to Xacozari.
Sonora, when one of the soldiers on
border guard duty plunged his oayo
net into the lard and broke a bottle
of the liquor. Investigation showed
that each of the cans contained a case
of whisky packed In flour to prevent
breakage and with a coating of lard
oter all.
RECENT
Monday night accepting the Republi
can party's nomination that ho be
lieved the franchise should ne extended
to women In all states-wlthont further
delay.
fttrr I, Itply To Inquiry.
Mr. Hughes' letter to senator George
Sutherland was tn reply to a telegram
received from the senator, asking the
nominee to define his xersonaI position
ith regard to the equal suffrage fed
eral amendment. Mr. Hughes replied
a follows:
Should Act For 1 bole toonfr).
"Your telegram has been received In
my answer to the notification I did not
refer to the proposed federal amend
ment relating to woman suffrage as
this was not mentioned in the platform.
I hae no objection, however, to stating
my personal views. As I said in my
i..ith ia additional cavalrvmen from
the troop base at Kabens by Lieut .
TeKord to reiniorce tne garrison mere.
Sergt. Nelson will take the place of
Sergt. Lewis Thompson, who was in
command pf the detachment during the
fight and who "was bounded
Two rtodlra Arrive.
There was no military display inci
dent to the arrival of two somber gray
boxes containing tne oodles oi hli
John J. Towmey. New York city. N. 1 .. I
cock. Texas, Monday. His report tells
substantially the story narrated in
news dispatches
Gen. .Bell's report concludes:
"I wish to call attention to the co
operation of the Mexican troops. Three
bandits belonging to this band were
aptured yesterday by the Mexicans
and are now en route to Juarez."
Declares British Conditions
Regarding Shipments Are
Impracticable.
BLAMES "BRITAIN
FOR STARVATION
Germany Says Good Harvest
Will Ameliorate Condi
tions in Occupied Land.
WASl
s
ASHINGTON. D. C. Aug. 1.
Germany has informed the
nited States she has refused
"on account of the impracticable condi
tions imposed by Great Britain upon
the shipment of foodstuffs from Amer
ica Into Poland," to enter into further
negotiations for cooperation in Polish
relief work which are devoid of pur
pose. Owing to favorable harvest prospects.
however, the imperial government says
relief apparently will be unnecessary
after October 1 next
Note ent to TT. S.
The German position is stated In a.
note handed to ambaMsador Gerard July
-0. and made public todav at the state
department. It apparently Is a final
rejection of Great Britain's offer made
in a recent communication, acquiesced
In by France, to permit the passage of
American food supplies into Poland on
HESS HE
CONSERVATIVE
"Pnrlnwril Dnpowrn T3rtni1 T? a I speech. I think it to b most rifdrnh1
xcuciai Ai-wwvc uuaiu no that the question of woman ffuffrace bodies wrapped in cloth. t other objects exhumed by judpe Marti-
.! CI I T"V i a m. . l 1 j 1 ..! a mi . I . . . T . nh-n OtlJ hie a ttsi stints ! a va nrnh !
DOrL OilOWS JJOIIlebliU UI- i semea proinpiij. me ques- i The Bodies are oeing neia in me r-eav - - ...,.. .,w k'"- i
puil, u-uo iJUiiicoii vx t, lr ut su(.h nature tha. ,. should i-nd.rt.kinsr uarlors. Wood was to . into the question of whether the
FINDS VILLA AMMUNITION
HIDDEN IN JUAREZ RUINS
More than 3000 rifle cartridges.
and'ltobert L. Wood, a custom employe, j thought to have been hidden by Villa's condition that the occupying Teutonic
Monday evening when tne iexas ami , "" " " uic. " armies would not seize or remove na
Pacific train No. i pulled Into me " '" c . b J -iv. jw
Cnion station i f1 D- Martinez, district judge of the
J v" Peak.' of the Peak Fndertaklng ; broder city, during an investigation
companv of Kl Paso, and one of his as- "' the cause of the fire that occurred
sistants" accompanied the bodies to KI . in,-'uarfz rec?nUy.,.,
Paso They came by express and there . The burned buildincr was a ware-.-.
,. -ii.r. nr- nrri--: imuniunr. ! house that belonged to Andres de Le-
ing the bodies The caskets for the vie- , ciimberri. but had been taken over bv
tim .lirt not leave F.l Paso until late tne municipal authorities after the
tne products.
o Mention of AVilson'n letter.
No mention is nia.ie of president Wil
son's persona! letter to mnrnr Wil
i .lam, similar to those ent to other Eu-
lopean rulers appealing for Jo-nt ac
tion in arranging to feed the starling
I'o!e-. The note is in reply to identical
ModaTafternoon and' when received At ! owner had been driVen Vrom hta ! ZfZlToTlloTrL Zlrt)?
Fort Hancock the undertaker had not j sion by the illistas. cerneA belligerents con-
more than ten minutes to transfer the A rifle and a pistol were amonc the; ' "-iii-
-MnnH in Moth ( other objects exhumed by judce Marti- -crmanj U AMIIinc.
ders Replace Foreign.
Washington. D. C. A tiff. 1 The
monthly summary of busineps in the
Vnited State?, prepared by the federal
reserve board today from reports of
th agents of the 1- federal districts
shows domestic demand grra dually tak
inc the place of foreign orders.
"The present trend of business is
more alonp; the line of conservatism
which bankers and business m"n have
l-en ursine." the summarv stated. "It
tvnds to a more permanent prosperity.
The pressure to place new orders and
to stock up htavily. which was so
prevalent a month or two agx. is dis
appearing. "Thf general business outlmk is sat
isfactory. Crops are better than aver
nsc in mot districts and the labor sit
uation i ' ps-factory everywhere ex
cept Nw York wh-re the fjannent
workers are on strike and Sun Fran
cisco, wherr strikes continue on the
water front."
positionssecured'for
325 texas univ. graduates
ustin. Tex.. Aug. 1 -Ir. Frederick
Eby. chairman of th appointment com
mittee if the rnivc-Mtj of Texas, re
ports that he has a teady secured po
sitions in Texas s.-ho' !s for 335 students
be settled for the entire country
"My view is that the proposed amend
ment should le submitted and ratified
and the ulviect reniored from political
discussion '
MuffraglMK Knthnlntlc.
Washington, D. C, Aug. 1. News of
3ir. ttugness announcement was re-
that it should J Undertaking parlors. Wood was to
or of incendiary '
don. Kng. Aug. 1. The complete , aj evstudents of tie university
blishment of the independence of ,otai of ;-0 persons registered with
.,,.. ctfirt.t hi duties Tuesday. His . "re was acciaentai
...- I. C4n-Kar.. Pmnt ta hilt , OTlglh.
the vou'ng man has been on the border I "I have not completed my inquiry.
for some time ' ""d- therefore, do not feel in position
Movle'of Dead Mexicans. I o, make a statement at this time."
Pv, Towmey wM year , , ;' 1 Yo
1"." Z?,t kinTn Zw I "B P he my.tery."
cetvea wun unoounaea entnusiasm at j wound in the left or the oreast i'r iRDiwru niliRTrCMACTCIJ nrnnT
t'ne headquarters of the Congressional -the heart. Mr. Wood was struck on iBllitn yuftAILWHAOILRUnrUI
Union for Woman Suffrage. STaTeTnents ' the left side of the abdomen, the bul- ' JO BE ESTABLISHED AT TOBIN
were issued by Miss Maude Younger. in penetrating far into the body. Mo- " " winuiiLu ni luom
M.ss Lucy Burns and Mrs. Addy Scott 1 t)on picture men hastened to the scene ' A branch quartermaster depot is be
Iiaker. predicting that the women of I e !.. riirht to make nictures of the ! ig established at Vobtn. on the South-
the west would rally lo the support of ! dead Mexicans and other features of , western main line and
Air. tiugnes. ana contrasting nis am- tjie fight.
tuoe wun tne insistence o: presiaer, , 0r their graves
Wilson that suffrage is a state issu mmiat. the tIc
, buried close to the scene of the battle.
.ergt. Thompson T" Ilecover.
Sergt. Lewis Thompson, who was shot
through the left shoulder pnd side in
the fight Monday morning, is reported
to be resting well at the base hospital
at Fort Bliss and will soon he able to
HEAVY DAMAGE RESULTS
IN LOWERING COTTON FIGURES
tVaahlnirton D O . Augrust 1. Heavy am
tge to the erowlnc entton rrop between June
:: and July 2i ha cauned a reduction of
produc-
rtesta
Belgium and Poland and a democratic
federal union t the Balkan states, were
unanimously agreed upon ;it the open
ing of the intei national Socialist con
ference at the Hague. Monday, accord
ing to a detailed a' count of the session
received here.
Algernon Lee, the American repre
sentative, said the I'nited States bad
its own problem in a very strong mili
tarist movement.
the
committee as al.pl, .-arts for positions.
and the '1st is heinr decreased bv ap
pointments made almost daily. " Last
y. ar the committee secured positions
for 43-' persons. This service is done
without charge, exctt'. for a hi initial
registration fee for i.-.cidental expense".
.' CHARTER FILED FOR EL PASO
HOME FOR AGED AND ORPHANS
1.CS0.OOO bis tn the prospect! v
won
Th Aujcvtt cotton report of the depart
ment of agruulturc announced today Indi
cate th production of I2.91S.eeft equivalent
.".00 pounl bale compared with 14.2CS.094
forecast frm th" condition of the crop
.lune ;s Th- crop condition during th
month droppi ii s pr cent to 72.3 per cit
of a normal.
DEUTCHLAND TAKES 0N
PILOT; IS READY TO GO
Baltimore, Md, Aug. 1. With a pilot
; aboard and primed fully as to engine
I efficiency. fuel and provisions, the
j German merchant submarino Deutsch-
Jand remained moored to her pier at
I oiner oojects exnumen oy juage .Marti- --. ....,, .. .. hhuk.
i ne iext follow
Fro-n the very beginning the lrn-I't-rial
goxernment de. Ured its readi
ness to offer its assistance in ordir
that the distress apparent in th.s
parts of l:ussia wmch are occupy. 1
by German troops t.e eased by the re
lief work of the Inited States of Ame -ica.
which is organized on such a great
scale.
Hritain i the Hindrance.
"The imperial sow rnment has pai -ticularly
offer-d all guarantees ,-jt.-sistent
with the r. .i.irement ft
that the imported foodstuffs win oi v
serve the needs of the population (
th- territory ftr.uoi.rt. Aecorritnt-i-,
i the American relief mirht have be- -i
several months ago with th
provisions as in northern Fran.,
main line to the depot and shipments i .a no1 lne eourM' ' Great Kr.t
cf supplies for the Pennsylvania troops I !!,'," P'vented its a. .-omplishment bv
will be sent out from the main quar- J.Kns lo'ts unfounded and lnura
t.rmaster depot in carload lots and I "jMe condition,
d.stributed from the branch depot to ," .tnis w?-v ,l bas become practi-
me iroops oi tne atvision. i r: '" ".- 'uej a consiac
this will be usd
The bodies were taken out . to supply the Pennsylvania division in relpaV'JH
ves three times to accom- : 4 -imp Stewart .,,.,, , same pro
picture men.. They were , A spur tracl; : will be lad from the
ent continue to be issued to the mili- I ica to Poland by the expiration of tne
be out. His wounds are both clean I tta troops in the different camps and I iTrtn. "" as '" en'' or th relief work,
bullet wounds, no hone were fractured I it is expected that by the 15th of the 'ctober 1. Accordingly further nego
and it is not thought he will lose the t month, there will be a complete issue tiations are devoid of purpose,
use of his arm as a result of his I of clothing and supplies to the sol- I Good l"rop in Muht.
I wounds. f diers on the border here. i K.ul on tne other hand, thanks to
VILLA HIDDEN AND AIDED BY
COUNT VON BOTHMER'S
ARMY TRAPPED, REPORT'
WJF
The d
par" e
I halt t1 s i
ghe appo.'
I drew r.e
lsearfc
IClp Fr
Ith- -
Iwaru vc (
Isurl1 rc
had d- e
army
veioped b the
Russians in Oalicia,
n-tirt . i. , '-, i..,,l triAjl j-i -a r oiih. I . l!lli
a. j- i . i ni M, .ti. -j .! i am a 7a; l.K ,. -.'
- .,. .u.. i i j .i... ' "Othmer
t- v. i? inn i"ik,iut irdi, iiiu .-
t '.- A rMUlUI -(. k;,c J. ,.w t A U 1
. ., K- - -., -,..K a uinudlVII llflii 'lll- . t-IIT: Hilt-
,o uic uciiiMii ouv- ! .. -. . ., . ,
.,... trtnn. i ursei n,p i- roiu IU ilt1C
destroyed the railways behind the Aus-
I irian army. lsdlmir-volvnsky
Austin, Tex.. Ausr. 1. The charter of
the KI Taso home for the aped and or
phans of Kl Paso, was filed todav In
Aup. 1. Count von ! tn state department. It has no capi
rerortrt to be pn. ! tal Mock.
". ' upon rapt Frj'att to
, i-r search, and that when
Tl e-i says the admiralty. ; erma"s-
.t ileliberately tried 'to ram
rier to get tne re
I TURKISH TROOPS ARE
the ijn ernment offers
.i:d jfttrward boasted he
ARRIVING AT LEMBERG
The 'incorporators are Mrs J. A. Pot
ter. Mrs. C. o. Coffin. Mrs. II. F. Mar
tin and others.
PARALYSIS" DEATHS ARE
INCREASING; HEAT BLAMED
RUSSIAN TROOPS BATTLE
THEIR WAY THROUGH FOF
Petrrgr.d. P.nsfia. Aug. 1 Russian ;"r..Y... "..- . . .1' . '
troops at the Stokhod river in the vil- I "?;"" -...-. .u- -i ... .-
lage of Vliikikuchary region fought I
their wj to the west or this line, it
was offi. idlly announced by the Itus-
Xew York. Aug. 1. A new high mor
tality record in I he epidemic of infan
tile paralysis was established today.
lurin? the 24 hour nenod endlnrr at
Berlin. Germany. July 31. The van- . 10 a. m. the nlairue killed S7 children
guard of the Turkish troops has al- and 159 new cases were reported. The
ready been detrained at Lemberg. Ga- increase in deaths is attributed to tho !
ncia. according to dispatches from the ! season's worst heat wave
uancian capital. The German com-
HOMH i:.l"I.OIIB.s IIKR.TII i ...
JKWIMI DAILY Mill PI.A.NT i .:.
I'rouil of Pvt. Shenln.
The hospital corps men at the base
hospital are proud of the record made
by Pvt. Francis Sheain. of the hospital
corps at the fight below Fort Hancock.
The hospital men say that it was prob
ably the first time that Pvt. Sheain
had ever fired a shot in anger and that
his heroic work under fire, when he
shot one of the Mexicans and then
dressed the wounds of Serge Thomp- I to El Paso from the Mexican
son under fire, was worthy of the best
traditions of the hospital corps. I"vt.
I-ncnct Pmct th.. f- . .k. ..- .-.o-mii s iio i inr .c uwiiimi,
.lo.ion of ;... "o?.V,.i' ""i ! baving accompanied Sergt. Thompson
....... V-. u- . "rr h lL ' Kl Paso from Fort Hanc
j the intense cultivation of the land o.
, cupied by the imperial government, hy
TEJEDA AND SON, IS CHARGE or, poss.bl? fn ,h. oVcupTed tern
Xemeco Tejeda and his son. mer- ! ves"? L a re'lfe'Ictfon'6 a;
chant, at antg RrMM t- n I . .-. - v . VW V reiiei action alter
7 ei.. nf v T, v:T ..- ':.-jJjJ'yl:"?".,'...,!M- can aPPrentl be dls-
bandit leader hidden
!"-? la-irk
during several -The fact that ... Mnl.iarion , p
An Trt IInvAA1r T.
rerteuranravc.0val ' r" Start'"B " ber ! - Thompson waVshot b? the Mex
return voyage to Germany. I ;M . ... K w fc.. .... a,...
- rt i. I i rcttivit nuurr, i . k-uuaiu
oyage to Germany.
IIATZFKI.nT SS DBIMIlTl'ItU
OF M IMl.lllIM: is IMMIM5.VP
Washington. I. C, Aug.
on Hatzfeldt. counsellor of the Ger
man embassj. said today after a call at
the state ilepaitment that the departure
of the merchant submarine Heutsch
land was imminent.
TIIC DAY IX COXGIIESS.
weeks preceding Villa's attack upon J Und and I.ithuaV.i a w ""to ,me VZZi
Ps-'ral. according t a report brought .,uffer ulli ,he new cro is lodedaad
to El Paso from the Mexican mining Lite, on .n ., - ,.-....- ...
citv. nr ihi ik hi.. .ri.. r . ' : "" -'"r","r ",r l" ""
----- - - - -'- ...----- ........ !-. .v., . U, Hitn sir.nirnten. .1 cir. umstanct .
Hfy. ! ra.rra"c,s,a' a' -an,a I"-- can therefore not e la.d to the blame
bara and made to walk to ParraL a I of the mi... n..I K.. . rnnient hut to that
distance of Is. miles, where tl were ! of Great Urn un ",mrnl- UI lo ",l
locked up. j
II 4 tavmi ivk k k Mi-if.-.MA .w I
it was through the ministrations of n rt"T" irnnri I at i
the Tejedas. it is sa:d. that Villa re-! Ml" I I nNfl III
gained his strength to such an extent 1 II I (.(JUL! I ill
as tobe able ,o lead the attack on, J j JJJ f Jj
flUH FAILS
'hicago. 111.. Aug. 1. Two bombs J
Senate.
Itesumed debate on District of
Columbia bill.
Unanimous consent denied for
immediate consideration of
JS10.000 relief resolution for
southern flood sufferers.
Army appropriation bill con
ference continued.
Ilouae.
N'o session; meets Wednesday.
House naval conferees re
sumed hearing on proposed in-
was the first one he thought of as he
called out. "Thev have got me loc.
this beinsr a name the troopers of the I
i rrince : Kighth had eiven Sheain because he
was tn the hospital corps RRIH HFN. GKANHFR ADAMS
I-iinrrnI for Klcht Victim. I . A. -... ...... ..nAnn.n I
Funeral ser, ices were held for Pvt. TO COMMAND DEMING TROOPS !
John J. Twomey. at 3 orlock Tuesdav i Brig. Gen. Granger Adams. U. S. A., j
afternoon from the Peak Undertaking commanding the field artillery brigade
company's parlors The bod of the , .., none, l at n I'an will .iun w-.r .'
(dead cavalryman will be shipped this ; or Wednesday to take command of the . . .
evening to Madison. N J., for burial. An , militia troops at Deming. X. St.. where ' """ cos-, -ins i it nis orfl-esc-ort
of the eighth cavalri accom- I two battalions are stationed. . ciaHy announced this evening that there
panied the body to the train : The state troops now at Peming ara . were no casualties whatever as the re-
The body of Robert L Wood, the regarded but as the "advance guard." , ,,. . . ' "ne r
civilian scout who was killed during i several more units being expected to i su,t of the ProJ"iles dropped by zep
the fight will be held here until the ar- , arrive in the near future. ! pelin airships Stonday night
El.u, wa' nepartment to'i.t
Teutonic counter atta ks in the
Kovel ai rt Lutsk regions were repulsed
by the Russians.
1 .n .. ..ln.t J ....I.... in.. . 1m I....I.II- ' ... 1 . .
ttifii'ivii vTi'iiicn uif-TtT. I ' e r.iuu.ni '"j mvv. ...c .,uioiii.b, ... crease in navni persuniiei.
Tl'ITll lltlltr cn ifv " ',,Tr -.. .-..- . .. ..vot K- , -,. ruiriKii diiaiiii vujiiraiitifr
lish.-i
Montreal. Que Aug. I. Tne Briti.-h .. . .. in the recent
steamer Clodmoor. just in port from : iabor leaders charged with conspiracy I .
(Continued on page 3, Col. 2.1 1 here.
g, was a state's j ; held hearing on Xiagara Falls :
trial of a score of .;. water diversion. :
rival of his brother from Strawberry f
roini. lowa. when funeral arrange
ments will be made. It is prob
able that he will be burled with mili
tary honors as he was acting as a
military scout at the time of his death.
GEN. BELL CALLS ATTENTION
TO MEXICAN COOPERATION
Washington, D. C. Aug. L Brig.
WTI-AMEIUCW GKVEHVI.S
Laredo. Texas, Aug.
j The eastern and southeastern counties
AUG KKIMIKTKn KKMOVKD i "' """"" na.i a visitation from alr-
An otriciat
It is reported ships late in the n'cht
nere on apparently rename authority communication sal s
that Gens. K. P. Xaffarate and Luis Ca- ... ,,0 , . ,
ballero. commanding at Matamoros and ! An attaik n' a number of hostila
Tampico. respectively, hare been re- I airships developed before midnight.
moved from command because of their J The raiders are reported as havinc-
anti-American sentiments, by order of crossed the coast line along the eastern
Gen. Carranza. It is reported further i and southeastern counties Rnmh ....
Gen. George Bell. jr. in an official re- that Caba Hero has been sue. eeded by a I dropped off the Thames estuary.
port to the war department, made pub- j -Mexico iny lawver named Trejo The I The airships were vigorously bom
lic todai. directs especial attention to generals have been summoned to Mex- I harried hv anti. aircraft i-o. ,.' .,...
J the cooperation of Carranza troops n ico City. It is aid, and will be assigned are believed to have prevented the iei--t
the fight with bandits on the Ameri- I to other posts, w here they will not . pelins from effecting any considers.!, e
, v can side of the border near Fort Han- come in contact with Americans I damage
date
Hughes Voices The Dominant Opinion About Mexico
x
