I i
J
THE BARRE DAILY TIMES
VOL. XX NO. 117.
HAHKK, VKKMOXT", ' TUESDAY, AUCUST 1. 1916.
PJUCE. OXE CEXT.
GERMAN ARMY
IS IN DANGER
I IP I ttl I I llll i''f'T. IlllolVlcial reports seem to shoW
Jl Jil Uliat thf Serb and the British nnd
Frame and Bh-.U preed luk from
wiiere nicy bumiiI a jnr
IliT allies nWo lime turiicj over the
initiative to t It iitti( allies almost ev
en Uvti the Aiitru-lluiigariaii in
Volhynta Mini ' .it litta mul in Italy re
iiitluclv to l In Kiikmii anl tin 1 1 . I
ians. mul the Turks in Ai Minor 1 1 Hie
.Von Bothmer's Troops in
Galicia Arc Reported to Be
. Almost Enveloped by the
Russians After Occupa
tion of Brody Cossack Di
visions Destroyed Rail
Ways Behind the Austrian
Army
I l- l. : !.,... !,..
gage of little Id thr Bulgai inns ami tlie
soldiers of rent ml powers,
GERMANY CUTS OFF
NEGOTIATIONS FOR
. POLISH RELIEF
Claiming That Great Britain Has Im
' posed Impracticable Conditions Also
Asserts That Harvest Prospects
Seem to Be Favorable.
Washington. 1. ('., Aug. I. Germany
I lias i it for iiic.l tlio I'nitt'il States that on
Hi'i'ouiit of tin impracticable conditions
imposed liv England upon the shipment
f t e . e . . . . .1 1
r T) H T A T C ATT ATAXfTVP iiKiiiHiniii irom .America nuo ronum
; UiliKMAINiO AUfci MU V liNvr jfurtlur negotiations for co-operation in
mn rrTvc T.-rmAf VHVFT lr"liM" r,ii,-f wo,k ro t''voi,! ,,f pun""-
iilLr UUi0 riiU-iU JVUVIit. Owing to favorable lnrvest prospects,
Uie imperial govct nnient says, relief ap
parently ill Ix unnecessary after Oct. 1.
FOURTH WARRANT
ISSUED IN NEW YORK
FIRE INVESTIGATION
KAISER VOICES
WISH FOR PEACE
But He Declares That Ger
many's Enemies Will
Not Fermit It
ASSERTS CONFIDENCE
IN THE OUTCOME
Declares Germany Knows
She Is Fighting for
Her Existence
PARALYSIS PLAGUE
KILLED 57 IN DAY
All Previous Mortality Records in New
York City Were Broken and 159
New Cases Developed.
New York. Aug. 1. All previous mor
talitv records in the infantile, paralvsia
epidemic were broken to-day. During
the taut 21 hours the plaguo killed ;7
children in the greater rity, and IS!) new
cim-i were rcjiorted. The death increase
was attributed to the season's worst
heat wave.
City of Vladimir-Volynski in
Volhynia Is Said to Have
Been Completely Evacuat
ed by the Germans Zep
pelins Made Another Raid
On England Last Night
London, Aug. 1. General von Both
mer's army is reported to be almost en
veloped by the Russians in Galicia, says
a dispatch from Rome t the wireless
press. After the occupation of Brody the
Cossack divisions Rre said to have de
stroyed the railways behind the Austrian
army.
The Germans are withdrawing from
Kovel their heavy artillery and food und
munitions depots, says another Koine
dispatch to the wireless press.
The city of Vladimir-Volynski in Vol
hynia is said to have, been completely
evacuated bv the Germans.
GERMANS DELIVER
NIGHT ATTACK
IN THE SOMME
British Official Report Declares That Ef
fort Was Successfully Repulsed The
French Claim to Have Put Down
Two Attacks Also.
London, Aug. 1. North of Bazentin le
Petit, in the region of the Sorame, the
Germans in the night attacked British
positions. I hey were successfully re
pulsed, says the British war office.
Paris. Aug. 1. Xorth of the Avre river
in the Somme district the Germans at
tempted two attacks against the French
in the Lihons sector but were repulsed by
French fire, says the war office.
SEVEN ZEPPELINS
RAIDED ENGLAND;
ONE PROBABLY HIT
Searchlights Found One of the Raiders
and Anti-Aircraft Guns at Once
Trained Their Fire On It, Ap
parently Scoring a Hit.
London, Aug. 1. Last night's raid on
. southeastern counties of England was
carried out by seven Zeppelins, accompa
nied by aeroplanes, according to observ
ers. Independent accounts say that one
Zeppelin, ciught by the searchlights, was
fired upon by anti-aircraft guns and ap
parently was hit.
RUSSIANS THRUST
TEUTONS BACKWARD
ON STOKHOD RIVER
Have Fought Their Way to West of the
Line and Have Repulsed All Coun
ter Attacks in Kovel and
Lutsk Regions.
Tetrograd, Aug. 1. Russian troops at
the bend of the Stokhod river forced the
Austro-Germans back and foiurht their
way through to a point west of the line,
it is officially announced. All Teutonic
counter attacks in the Kovel and Lutsk
regions were repulsed by the Russians.
Fire Broke Out Again on Black Tom
Pier, and Firemen Were Kept Busy
Last Night Companies
Deny Blame.
Xew York, Aug. 1. With three offi
cers of corporations doing business 011
Black Tom island under arrest and a
warrant out for a fourth, preparations
were under way at .Jersey City for a
joint federal, state, county and municipal
investigation to fix the blame for .Sunday
mornings disaster, which killed at least
three men, iniured scores and caused ap
proximately .$2U,000,(MK) property damage.
rire broke out among the ruins, on the
island last night, and one-half the tiro de
partment of Jersey City, with fircboats
from New ork and Xew Jersey, lought
the names, which centered about a pier
where large quantities ot shrapnel and
large calibre shells were stored. Shells
exploded In an almost continuous can
nonade. Chief Rosier Boyle of the Jersey
City fire department said he expected the
ruins to smoulder for a week longer.
The theory that the fire which caused
the disastrous explosion started on a
munitions barge, tied up at the island,
was scouted bv Robert S. Hudspeth, pros
ecutor of Hudson county, and Theodore
B. Johnson, president of the Johnson
Lighterage company, owner of the muni
tions barge. Both declared that the fire
originated in two Lehigh Valley railroad
freight cars laden with explosives.
Johnson, who w as arrested on a war
rant charging manslaughter, as were Al-j
bert M. Diekman, Black Tom agent of
the Lehigh alley, ind Alexander David
son, superintendent of the National Stor
age company, denied all responsibility
for the eonllagration after his arraign
ment. He intimated that the fire was
of incendiary origin.
In spite. . of Johnson's assertion, the
Lehigh Valley issued another statement
reiterating its charge that the fire had
hfgun on the Johnson lighter, which they
contended was moored at one of its piers
without authority.
Prosecutor Hudspeth corroborated
Johnson's story. He said he had obtained
an affidavit from the commander of the
tug Geneva, which gavea comprehensive
story of the disaster.
"According: to the affidavit and other
evidence," said the prosecutor, "the fire
started two hours before the Johnson
barge was destroyed, and it was not this
barge that caused the great explosion.
The captain of the Geneva was towing
away another barge, said to have been
loaded with a tremendously high explo
sive, acting upon orders of a Lehich Val
ley official, when the bargi4", which had
shown no sign of being afire, exploded.
This was the first explosion, and the one
that was most severe.
TIip second great explosion occurred
when the fire reached a number of freight
cars loaded with dynamite and another
tremendously high explosive, the charac
ter of which is still to be determined.
Mr. Hudspeth declared fully three
fifths of the explosives shipped to the en
tente allies passed through Jersey City.
Late in the day, a warrant was issued
for the arrest, 011 a charge of manslaugh
ter, of Edmund L. Mackenzie of l'lain
tield, X. J., president of the National
Storage company, whose plant at Black
Tom was destroyed. ,
Berlin, GerniMny, Aug. 1. Kinperor
William in a message to Chancellor Von
Ilollweg declares the German nation has
been through two years of unprecedented
heroic deeds and suffering. He contin
ues: "Still there are hard times ahead.
After a terrible fetor m of two years of
war the desire for sunshine and peace
is stirring in all human hearts but the
war continues because the battle cry of
the enemy governments Is still the de
struction of Germany. Firm confidence
has never left me that Germany i in
vincible in spite of the superior numbers
iif our enemies. Germany knows she is
fighting for her existence. She relies
on God's help."
"TIDE HAS TURNED."
Gen. Haig Sees the Advantage Now with
the Entente Allies.
With the British Armies in the Field,
Aug. 1, via London. At the close of
two years of the war and of the first
month of the British offensive, General
Sir Douglas Haig, commander-in-chief of
the group of British armies in France, in
speaking of the situation, laid particular
emphasis on the fact that the beginning
of the third year of the war saw the
initiative entirely with the allies on all
fronts, while England for the first time
was exerting something like a power
worthy of her numerous resources on
land.
"The tide has turned," he said. "Time
has been with the allies from the first.
It is only a question of more time until
we win a decisive victory, wnien is tlie
one sure way to bring peace in this, as in
other wars. I'ntil this victory is won, it
ill-becomes a British soldier in France to
think of peace."
MOTORIST CONVICTED.
Harry Boyd Was Charged with Breach of
th Peace.
Brattlelniro, Aug. 1. The jury tnat
heard the case or the state against Harry
Byd, charged with breach of the peace
in so driving an automobile that the ma
chine collided with a bridge, a team and
hit a man and that one of the occupant..
-Mrs. W . M. Kamlall, was throw n out and
seriously injured, returned a verdict of
guilty yesterday afternoon.
As the case is one of the first
Vermont in which the state luis tried
for a heavier sentence than is possible
under the charge of reckless driving, it
is probable that it will be carried to the
supreme court by Attorney Harry II.
Chase, who represented Boyd.
Boyd is out on bail of' $1,0(10 fur
nished by his father. A motion for an
arrest of judgment will be filed to
day and argued to-morrow.
KILLED DEER OUT OF SEASON.
Two Mount Tabor Men Were Fined in
Rutland Court.
Rutland, Aug. 1. Frank Howard and
Theodore Dumar of Mount Tabor were
fined 1H) and costs of $IS each by City
Judge F. G. Swinnerton yesterday for
killing deer out of season. The prosecu
tions were the result of work by County
Warden F. W. Hayward and Statc'j At
torney C. V. Poulin of this citv. ft is
understood that the two respondents did
not do the actual killing but they were
members of a gang w ho secured the ven
ison and it fell to their lot tp bear the
prosecution.
Many complaints of illegal deer killing
in this section have reached the fish and
game department. It is said that the
back woodsmen in the vicinity have
formed a pool in order to pay the fine
any of their number caught for taking
deer out of season.
HUGHES OPENS
HIS BATTLE
"America First and America
Efficient" to be the Key
note Phrase
BIG AUDIENCE GAVE
HIM AN OVATION
The Republican Candidate
Struck Boldly at Wil
son Administration
FACTS CONCERNING
BARRE CHAUTAUQUA
It Is One of a Great System Which Is
Being Operated in 14 States Its
Plan Is for Community
Betterment.
HUNDREDS ARE HOMELESS.
As Result of Canadian Forest FireJ
Flames are Subdued.
Toronto, Ont., Aug. 1. With one town
completely wiped out, another almost in
rums and a score ot small settlements
obliterated. Premier Hearst . announced
that 1S4 persons lost their lives in the
forest fires in northern Ontario. Only a
heavy rainfall early yesterday saved a
great part of the province probably from
destruction. Hundreds are homrless and
the Dominion government has taken ex
traordinary measures to provide for the
refugees.
Where the town of Matheson once
stood there are only smouldering ruins
and ashes. The country surrounding it
is as barren as a desert. Only a few
structures in the village of Cochrane re
main standing. The greater loss of life
occurred at Nushka and Monteith, part
ly in ruins, where 1)8 were burned. At
Matheson 35 persons perished. Iroquois
Falls, where great 1 paper mills are lo
cated, was not entirely burned as was
reported Sunday night. The paper mills
and one store were baved from the
flames.
There was no serious damage at En
glehart, although one or two fires oc
curred. At Timmins 17 houses were de
stroyed. "The relief work throughout the dis
strict is well in hand," said the premier.
"Everything possible is being done. We
will spare no expense to give the neces
sary relief."
CAR WAS OVERTURNED.
Mrs. Warren F. Newton of St. Albans
. Was Injured.
St. Albans, Aug. 1. Mrs. Warren F
Xewton was injured late yesterday aft
ernoon when the automobile in which she
and her husband were going to Swanton
Junction was overturned. A gash 'vas
cut in the back of her head and tsith
arms and one leg were badly bruied. IY
E. A. Hyatt was called and thinks that
no bones were broken. Mr. Xewton is
employed bv the St. Albans Grain com
panv and was going to Swanton Junc
tion to take lunch to the men working
111 the steam rnisher at rondas lin.e
kilns. The clutches had been bothering
him, but he was much surprised when
suddenly the car overturned. Mrs. New
ton was able to return home on a trolley
r. Mr. Newton was bruised somewhat.
One glaj-s in the windshield was broken
and one mudguard bent.
A DOUBLE DROWNING.
PAGE'S BILL PASSED.
Beys Were Playing Leap Frog in Mer
rimac River at Lowell, Mass.
Lowell, Mass., Aug. 1. Gemes Bas
banes, aged 13, of 3 Little street, and
John Kemhagires, 10 years old, of 20
Franklin court, were drowned yeste'day
afternoon while playing leap frog in the
Merrimac river between Moody and
Aiken street bridges. Leo La course was
unsuccessful in his efforts to save the
boys.
The body of the Basbanes boy was re
covered soon after the drowning and that
of the Kemhagires boy last night by
Joseph Albert. The mother of the Bas-
AUTO SKIDDED INTO TREE.
When Tire Blew Out Two Women In
jured in Rutland.
Rutland, Aug. 1. When a rear tire
blew out on Woodstock avenue yester
day, a Massachusetts touring car carry
ing four people from Holyoke, Mass.,
skidded and then crashed into a tree,
two of the occupants being injured. Mrs.
W. D. Ballard was thrown aoraiimt the
side of the car and her head hit the tree.
A deep gash three inches long was cut
over the left eye and her side was
bruised. Her daughter-in-law was cut
by portions of the windshield. The elder
lady was removed to the hospital. Xe'
ther W. D. Ballard nor his son was in
jured. The automobile was considerably
damaged.
LOST NEW CROP OF HAY.
LEMBERG IS BEING
DESERTED BY PEOPLE
Vienna Telegrams Declare That Prepara
tions Are Being Made for Evacua
tion of Galician Capital.
London, Aug. 1. Telegrams from Vien
na say that Autro Hungarians have
made all preparations for the evacuation
of Lemberg. the Galician capital, says ait
Exchange Telegraph company despatch.
The inhabitants of Lemberg are reported
as leaving.
Vocational Educational Measure Virtaal
Iy .Unchanged By Senate.
Washington, D. C., Aug. 1. The vuca
tional educational bill was passed in t!
spnarp YesTpl-flHV HI prnnnn. I ht .
lire was substantially as introduced bvbH",',, flie1 la,t Vednesilay in the
" 1 I Ati-kll l.unital lla lal ' r .1 iuu fat hnl
Senator Page of Vermont. 1 ... .-v....,
. o r.t 17 ,v, vt ,i. (brother and sister.
lined to take up the immigration bill on !',osfiPh Kemhagires was the son of Peter
a motion by Senator Poindexter of 'and Mary Kemhagires. His parents did
Washington. Democratic senators voted I not .km,w of the dw"'"g u
solidly against the nronnsal which was!t'", tKKl-v was recoverec-
injected into the midst of debate on the
With It Went Farming Tools, Wagons
and the Barn.
Enosburg Falls, Aug. 1. During the
severe electrical storm which pased ove
here about 3 o'clock yesterday morning
the barn of Eugene Ovitt near Rordo
ville was struck by lightning and entire
ly destroyed by fire with wagons, farm
ing tools and a new crop of hay. It
was nearly a new barn, built by H. S.
Wanzcr, from whom Mr. Ovitt pur
chased the farm. There was insurance.
The storm was accompanied by a high
wind, which did much damage to crops,
fruits and trees.
District of Columbia bill.
Democratic senators, in a caucus last
night, voted to postpone action on the
immigration bill until the next session
of Congress and adopted, 33 tl 0,
resolution binding all Democratic sen
ators to that decision. A resolution then
was adopted, 32 to 7, pledging tiie ma
jority to vote down any attempt to at
tach the immigration measure to the
cnii'i laoor nut as a ruler.
This was the second double drowning
of boys at this spot in the river this
year.
TEAM WITHOUT CATCHER.
DROPPED 40 FEET
'Boston Nationals Had to Sign Up a
j School Boy.
Boston. Aug. 1. The Boston Xation
Ja Baseball team is without a rauher
jaa the result of accidents to Oowdy and
ITragressor with St. Louis yesterday. To
idav the manager set about tilling the
can, Artnnr Kieo. a local senooi ooy, oe-
After Getting Shock on Pole Paul WU-i1" " mar. amnRs maoe
SOn Killed at Lawrence. i v . .
' l iivi vn a.'ivjr,
ON DEFENSIVE ALL AROUND.
German
Forces Enter Third
Unusual Position.
Yea:
j Lawrence. Mass., Aug. 1. Paul Wilson,
jaged about 23, of MedforJ, a lineman era
j ployed by the Xew England Telephone
! company, was fatally injured by a shock
ja' of eletricity when he came in contact
with a high tension wire while at work
on a pole near the South I'nion street
Lnln. Aug. 1. Germany enters upnn
the third resr of the war with her forces
in nearly all portions of the main Ce
ates of operations on the defensive and
with her line at numerous place in was used without result.
HE CONVERTED SUNDAT.
Harry Monroe, Superintendent of Chi
cago Mission, Dead.
Chicago. A 11c. 1. Harrv Monroe, who
HIT BY MARBLE SLAB.
Charles Cherrods of Middlebury Received
Only a Scalp Wout d.
Middlebury, Aug. L Charles Cherrods,
an employe of the Middlebury branch of
t ie Vejmont Marble company. hile at
vork in (he yard assisting in the opera
tion of the crane, happened t be near
by under the crane w In. ii h i 1 a large
slab of marble. The marb'j broke in
two, a portion hitt'ng him on the eik
of tiit head and he re.-ened a spa(1
soci.il. He was promptly atii.lc.l lo
Ly Ifllcw workmen and w- taken in
an embulance to the office of Dr. S. S.
Eddv.
Xew Vork, Aug. 1. Having outlined
his issue in his speech of acceptance at
Carnegie hall last night, diaries E.
Hughes to-day fairly embarked on a
campaign for the presidency. "America
first and America efficient" was the as
sertion in the speech generally selected
as the keynote of the coming political
battle. Hughes is to address a number
f women's societies this afternoon.
At the Carnegie hall meeting last night
Hughes was formally notified of the ac-
ion of the Republican convention in Chi
cago, the mil was crowded to capacity
and when Hughes appeared shortly before
o clock the audience cheered the candi
date for several minutes. The nominee,
recognizing Theodore Roosevelt in one of
the boxes, waved to him, and Colonel
Roosevelt clapped his hands in ackuowl-
Ig merit.
Sent.tor Harding of Ohio, chairman of
the notification committee, was cheered
at every reference to the name of the
nominee and a republican victory in -November.
When he hud finished the band
played and the crowd rose and cheered
again.
Mr. Hughes was frequently interrupted
by laughter and applause. Soon after he
started to pe?.k an enthusiastic admirer
of Colonel Roosevelt rising somewhat un
steadily shouted "We want Teddy."
Scattering cheers and some hisses fol
lowed. He shouted his sentiments again,
wa.a hissed down and remained quiet
thereafter.
t After delivering his speech Mr. Hughes
was host at a reception to the notifica
tion committee and the invited guests to
the notification ceremony.
In his speech of acceptance Mr. Hughes
attacked the administration straight
from the shoulder on the weakness of its
Mexican policy. Not less uncompromis
ing was his denunciation of America's
policy in European affairs. He declared
for adequate preparedness and for a
higher type of Americanism.
One-fourth of the speech was devoted
to Mexico. Step after step taken by the
administration with reference to Mexico
was assailed from the days of Huerta to
the note sent the de facto government bv
the state department June 20, last, part
of which was quoted in the speech.
To attempt to control tlie domestic
concerns of Mexico," Mr. Hughes said,
was simply intervention, not less so be
cause disclaimed. The height of folly
was to have a vacillating and ineffective
intervention." The seizure of Vera Cruz,
the nominee said, "'was war, of course,''
Later we retired from Vera Cruz," he
continued, "giving up this noble war
fare. We had not obtained the salute
which was demanded. We had not ob
tained reparation for affronts. Recently
the naked truth was admitted bv a cab-
net officer. We are now informed that
we did not go to era ituz to force
Huerta to salute the flag. We are told
hat we went there to 'show Mexico that
we were in earnest in our demand that
Huerta must go.' That is, we seized
Vera Cruz to depose Huerta. The ques
tion of the salute was a mere pretext."
America, Mr. Hughes continued, had
no policy of aggression toward Mexico,
no desire for any part of her territory,
but wished her to have peace, stability
and prosperity.
"The conduct of the administration has
created difficulties we shall have to sur
mount," he said. "We shall have to
adopt a new policy, a policy of firmness
and consistency through which alone we
can promote an enduring friendship. We
demand from Mexico the protection of
the lives and property of our citizens and
the security of our border from depreda
tions." I
Safeguarding American rights abroad j
had not been accomplished, Mr. Hughes 1
said, by the administration. There had
been "brave words in a series of notes."
but what does it avail to use some of
the strongest words known to diploniacv-
if ambassadors can receive the impres
sion that the words are not to be taken
seriously?" The nominee reiterated his
declaration that had this government left
no doubt that it meant to hold Germany
to "strict accountability" there would
have been no loss of life on the Lusitania.
During this period, he said, the only dan
ger of war lay in the weak course of the
administration.
Discussing preparedness, Mr. Hughes
was apparent that the I nited
The following are sonic facts about the
Community Chautauqua which conies to
Barre to-morrow for the remainder 01
the week :
The Community Chautauqua system
is one of the greatest institutions in the
country for community betterment. Its
programs of music, entertainment and
educational lectures have sounded a new
note in platform work and have been
the chief cause of the system's phenom
enal growth.
It conducts a larger numher of thau-
tnuqiias than any other system in the
wrl.
A operates in the following 14 states,
which constitute the most densely popu
lated region of the United States:
Maine, Xew Hampshire, Vermont, Massa
chusetts, Xew Vork, Connecticut, Xew
lersey, Pennsylvania, West v irginia,
Ohio, Indiana, Illinois, Michigan and Ken
tucky. It will be noted that the number
of stars in the Community Hag indicates
the number of states in which Chautau
quas are held.
There are five great Community Chau
tauqua circuits, including 3o3 different
cities and towns.
In order that all of its Chautauquas
may be held during the months of June,
July, August and early September, it is
necessary for the system to have 2i dif
fcrent Chautauquas running at the same
time, 111 as many different towns, every
dav in the season.
Five Community Chautauquas will be
held this summer in Xew York City.
One of these will be held in an enormous
tent on Broadway, in the heart of the
citv.
Four hundred and sixteen persons- are
on the payroll of the system during the
Chautauqua season. Of this number, 143
are college students, representing many
of the principal colleges and universities
in the United States, including Harvard,
Yale, Dartmouth, Columbia, Princeton,
Chicago, Michigan, California, etc.
The Community Chautauqua system
cwns 33 large auditorium tents, each
seating from 1,000 to 1.800 people.
The tents are made of 10-ounce khaki
army duck, according to government
specifications. Each tent contains more
than a mile of rope.
The present cost of each tent outfit,
with canvas fence, ticket ofiiee, platform
decorations, covered entrance, tools,
trunks, etc., is in excess of $1,750. The
tent itself is valued at $1,4."3.
The raid admissions during a single
season total more than 2.200,000.
Five hundred and twenty-nine daily
and weekly newspapers carry Communi
ty Chautauqua advertising.
To visit all of the towns on Com
munity Chautauqua circuits by the
shortest possible route would require
1(1,200 miles of travel.
CLEARED AWAY
SHIP COURSE
As if for Departure of the
Submersible Deutsch-land
BARRIER REMOVED;
CHANNEL DRAGGED
A Pilot Has P.i Engaged
for the G nan Ad-yfirer
Baltimore, Lug. 1. Activities indicat
ing the early departure of the Deutsch-
land on her homeward voyage were no
ticed at the pier to-day. Logs forming
the outer barrier about the vessel were
towed into midstream and the tug Tim
mins swept the channel with a heavy
weight as a precaution against possi
ble obstructions. A pilot has been en
gaged for the Deutschland, it was learn si.
loiter the spar barricade was replaced
just outside the line of the covered barges
which screen the Deutschland from the
river view. The Timmins returned to
her position alongside the submersible. A
coast guard cutter arrived. After con
ferences between the captains of the cut
ter and police boat and the Deutschland's
officers the cutter and the police boat
steamed away. It is known that the sub
marine expected to leave at high tide this
forenoon. Owing to a strong adverse
wind the flood stage was not high enough,
necessitating postponement of the start.
The next high tide will be this evening.
EXPECT BREMEN TO-DAY
Stated That She Probably Will Appear in
Boston Harbor.
DIED WHILE DRINKING WATER.
Charles. M. Stafford's Body Found Sit
ting in Chair.
Rutland, Aug. 1 Charles M. Stafford.!
said it
States was "shockingly unprepared."
That the administration should have al
lowed such conditions to exist while pur
suing its course in Mexico was incredible,
he said.
'The administration has failed to dis
The Program for the Week.
The programs for the afternoons and
evenings of each of the five days are as
follows:
WEDNESDAY, AUG. 2.
Afternoon.
Opening Concert American Quartet
Organization of the Junior Chautauqua
Admission, 35c; Children, 13c.
Evening.
Musical Entertainment and Cartoons
American Quartet and Clayton Conrad
Address "The Community Conscience"
I.ee Francis Lybarger of the Philadel
phia bar
Admission, f0c; Children, 2.5c.
THURSDAY, AUG. 8.
Afternoon.
Song Uecital Goeffrey OTIara
Famous Irish Tenor and Song Y riter
Character Sketches and Impersonations
Wing Tabor etmore
Admission, 3."c; Children, 15c.
Evening.
Popular Entertainment
O'Hara and Wetmore
A Psychic Melapge Arthur Delroy
President New York Tsychic Club
Admission, S0c; Children, 25c.
FRIDAY, AUG. 4.
Afternoon.
Songs of the Southland Favorites of
the 60's (with banjo and piano accom
paniment) . .Dunbar's Southern Singers
Admission, S.ic; Children, lac.
Evening.
Musical rrelude
Dunbar's Southern Singers
Ieetu re-Recital "Shakespeare and His
Plavs" Frederick Warde,
Distinguished Shakespearean Actor
Admission, 50c; Children, 25c.
SATURDAY, AUG. 8.
Afternoon.
Popular Concert .Victor's Florentine Band
Lecture "A Living or a Life
Dr. Euclid B. Rogers
Admission, 50c: Children, 25c.
Evening.
Full Oand Concert
Victor's Florentine Band and Xeapoli
tan Troubadours
Admission. 50c; Children, 25c.
SUNDAY. AUG. .
Afternoon.
Violin Kecital
Ole Theobaldi. assisted by Florence
Alice Stitzell, operatic soprano, and
Mile. Helen Kelere, piano virtuoso
Admission, 5V; Children, 25e.
Evening.
Song Becital Fh renee Alice Stitzel
Lecture "An Inside View of Mexico"
Andre Tridon. war correspondent
Admission. 50r; Children, 25c.
Baltimore, Md., Aug. 1. The subma
rine Deutschland will positively leave
Baltimore before to-night. And, in all
likelihood, her sister ship, the Bremen,
will berth within the same 24 hours,
probably in Boston.
This information came directly from
the offices of the Eastern Forwarding
company, American representatives of the
U-boats.
A member of the crew who bade a
friend good-bye yesterday, said in the
presence of a newspaper man:
"The Bremen will not by any means
enter Chesapeake bay. The bay bas
proved more of a trap than a strategic
haven. The Bremen is in northern wa
ters, and her destination, so far as wo
know, is Boston. That was published
long ago in the same indefinite wav as
news of the Deutschland's coming to Bal
timore was published. And there's some
thing to it."
HENAULT LAVIGNE
Six Friends of the Groom Played in Or
chestra at Wedding.
St. Johnsbury, Aug. 1. Xotre Dame
des Victoires church was the scene of a
very elaborate wedding this morning at n
o'clock, the contracting parties being
Miss Alberta Lavigne and John B. He-
nault. The feature of the ceremonv was
the music. The groom is a talented young
violinist and his musician friends com
posed the orchestra of six pieces which
played the mass of St. Theresa. Miss
Emma Lavigne, the bride's sister, sang
"Salve Regina," as the offertory and as
the bridal party was leaving the church
sang "Ave Maria." The bride wore
white pussy willow taffeta and a veil,
while her bouquet was of bride roses.
Her maid, Miss Marie Henault, sister of
the groom, wore, yellow silk and carried
yellow ropes. She was also attended by
two members, of the Children of Mary,
Misses Leona Trembley and Lea Gagner.
The best man was Henry Lavigne. In
place of the two fathers, two brothers
attended the bride and groom. Fred La
vigne and Charles Henault of Sherbrooke.
The ushers were Edward Lavigne and
Isaac Gingras. Mr, and Mrs. Henault
will take a wedding trip to Xew York
and on their return will live at 19 St.
Marv street.
BROCK W0RTHEN.
Popular School Teacher Becomes Bride of
Barre Man.
On Sunday evening. July 30, at the
Methodist church in White River Junc
tion, a quiet A 'duu.g occurred when Mrs.
Maud A. Worthen was united in mar
riage to Everett C. Brock, the ceremony
being performed by Rev. George Sisson.
They were attended bv Mr. and Mr
Frederick Farrington, jr., friends of tne
bride.
The bride has been for man-- years
a popular and successful teacher, for the
past seven years as principal of the
grammar school at Quechee. Mr. Brock
: is a well known business man of Barre,
being engaged in the trucking business.
After a short wedding trip their home
will be at 156 Washington street, Barre.
DEATH OF CHARLES FAS0LA.
Occurred This Morning After Several
Months' Illness.
Charles Fasnla, a granitecutter, passed
Season tickets, bought of local eom-
cnarge its respons.D.imes. .Mr. itugne, ; rttee, .. .: at '" .w,y ,t his home, 14 Third street, thi
continued. "Apparently it is now seeking tickets, admitting children, 6 to 14 J-,- ,t 4 O.clook. Mr. Kafrfi h,d
to meet political exicencies ov its navai inclusive, i.k? irom iocmi itoiuhu'v, fi,, . ...
program. But it has imposed on the'at the gate. Tickets are transferable,
country an incompetent naval adminis- .fternoon programs begin at 2:30;
tration. .'.vMiinir rrocrams at :30.
t p iiemHna auwiinir proieci ion on
MANY FOWLS BURNED.
both our western and eastern coast. We
demand thoroughness and efficiency in
both arms of the service. It -eem to be
plain that our regular army is too small, i When Lightning Set Fire to Barn in St.
We are too great a country to require of j Johnsbury.
our citizens wno are engaged in pescerui j
been in failing health for several month.
He is survived by his wife and two chil
dren, daughter. Alba, and a son, Achill-.
There are also left two brothers and 1
sister living in Italy. The deceased was
born in Angera, Italy, 3S years ago and
had been a resident of Barre for the pst
twenty years. His marriage to Miss
Lucy Oenna took place in this city
around 14 years ago. As a young man
who lived in Rutland Town, died . hile 1 vocations the sort of miliTarv se'rvie, ,0 M. Johnsbury. Aug. l.-A barn be- A''' . mneThJ w
sitting in a chair and drinking water; which they are now called. As well in- I"'" " " b7 "d ILa
yesterday, hi body being found in -he' ist that our citizens in this metropolis M'' erlv r"'y morn.ng in one ,'mployed at the Presbry-Cokendall
chair and one hand holding , dipper, be summoned to put out fires and police of ihe worst el ectrical st orms orn-. P '"' "
Heart disease was given as the cai of Jthe streets" i-"""1 heTO ih T!'" enter. J j number of acquaintances in the Italian
bridge over the Boston A Maine railrodis credited with having converted Evan-lhi death. Of the present prosperity Mr. Ilurhe through the roof and burned the upp-r .colony.
yesterday afternoon. gelist William Sunday, is dead at the Mr. Stafford " rear, of n1 id that bv contemplation of indusr .1 part of the barn, d.-troyina s.m.t! t uneral services are to r held at tM
He dropped about 40 feet. Mrikins'ag of M rear. Monroe served as the is survived bv a daughter. Mr. Geitm !e .and commercial condition, "we are bv-.ton of hay an! smothering 35 hens and, house edne.iay afterno. at 4 oelork
upon hi feet in the sand. A pulmotor (superintendent of a mission here for 2tiEmeron of this ritv. and a on, C. W. I chickens. The !. u estinrjt.-d at aboutjand interment will be made in the Cath-
years. Stafford of Lake George. (Continued on fourth pge. .c cemeier, on lieckiey .ireev
