Daily and Sundav
HERALD
DELIVERED TO YOUR HOME.
30
Cents a
Month
A:
S first announced Januar> 1, 1916. Th?? Herald
guarantees full money s worth to the purcha*er?
of articles advertised in the display columns of this
paper by tiny Washington mer?Jiant.
I Circolar Fmmisked Upon Rtquttt)
NO. 3388.
WEATHER: FAIR, WARMER.
WASHINGTON. D. C.? TUESDAY. ?JANUARY 25, 1016.
ONE CENT.
la *?'???>????? asasl Pateta _______
Tfceret? KL?I ?'HIHI TWO ('?????.
CITIZENS' UNION
DENOUNCED FOR
ITS'ORrSTANO
-
Central Association Quits
Federation ? West End
Body to Consider Action.
WAR ON ORGANIZATION
Liquor Defenders Angered by
Vote of Federation for
District Prohibition.
tf. H. RICHARDSON ATTACKED
ceder?tion Has Strayed From Origi
nal Aim and Lost Usefulness.
State Irate Citizens.
The opening ?runs In the fight of
defender? of the liquor traffic against
the Federation of Citisene' Associa
tions for Its recent action in voting by
an overwhelming majority for local
prohibition were fired last night.
The Central Cltisens* Association
voted to sever its connection with the
federation, and the West End Cltisens*
Association, at a meeting st the Pow
hatan Hotel, decided . to vote at its
next meeting on a resolution calling
for similar action. Both of these as
sociation-! are overwhelmingly op
posed to District prohibition.
The Central Cltisens' Association
took action following Ihe peremptory
resignation of Leo A. Rover, delegate
to the federation, who declared he did
not care to rub shoulders with men of
the caliber of some of the delegates.
On the statement of Mr. Rover and
James W. Wood, minority leader of
the federation and delegate from the
West End Citizens' Association, who
ln addresses read the minority report,
that W. H. Richardson, representing
only an alleged association, was Ille
gally given a seat, the motion to with
draw was carried unanimously.
**? Saareeanor Aaamimta*.
Prealdasit U. J. McNaraara. after ac
cepting tAa resignation 0f Mr. Rover, re
fused to ?onsider the sppointment of a
suouessor. on the grounds that be did not
think tt rtgbt to ssk another member
of the association to sit where a former
delegate had refused to sit
The minority report read by Mr. Moore
states that Mr. Richardson, after holding
a seat In the federation of three years :
aa an alleged representative of the Ben- f
nlng*9 Cltisens Association, when ;
? risilenged to show hla credentials, as no
such association was known to exist !
claimed to be a delegate of a Bennings- I
Kenllworth Association, and was given a
seat by the credentials committee.
Federation Denonneed.
i'ondemnlng the manner in which the,
meetings of the federation is conducted
and charging that that body has become
an adjunct of the Anti-Saloon league,
member? of the West End Citixens' As- '
sociation agreed to vote at the next ?
meeting upon a resolution to sever their
affiliation with that body.
In Its original form, as Introduced by
Edward M. Dulin. the resolution called*
for Immediate withdrawal from the fed-j
-ration, and while there was an over
nhelming sentiment among the half a
hundred members preaent In favor of
that action, several speakers urged that
no hasty action be taken.
SJeieral speakers declared that the as
sociation could gain nothing by Its affili
ation with the federation. "The fedsr
lion is dominated by the Anti-Saloon
League." one member said, "and those
who are not in with the coterie of men
working for prohibition are cut off when
they rise to speak and are voted down
*h.n an appeal ia made for the rulings
of the chair.
"Trie associations representing th? busi
ness men of Washington have gone on
record as opposed to prohibition,'? ha
continued, "and there Is no sense ln be
longing to a body which is dominated by
the smailer associations on the outskirts
of Washington. They already virtually
h.i?e prohibition in those places and yet
they are trying to fores prohibition upon
other sections.
?ka?? Par Wide a?f Mark
"An example of the way in which the
affairs of the federation are conducted Is
th,? idmissic.rvajft membership in thst body
of the Washington Civic Association and .
the Benning Citixens' Association, both of j
which arc small bodies. The vote of the
?Iclesaie from either of these association?
co'i*"ti? ar much as the vote of the dels
ante of the West End Cltisens' Associa
tion. ?Yhtch ia ten times as large as either
cf therr and is composed of business men
or th? dty
"Aa 1 understand it the federation was
organised to build up the city and not
to tear down, but It has shot r.l-le of
its original mark and haa lost Its useful
ness."
A resolution urging the Commissioners
to adopt a regulation making It compul
sory for persons offering spigots and
other plumbing fixtures for sale to file
an affidavit at the time of sale as to
how the articles came into their posses
sion was adopted- This regulation Is
propoaed in order to lessen the number
of thefts of plumbing fixtures from va
cant houses.
Twelve new member? avere admitted:
James Mctllhenny. Ira Artman W. T.
Keenan. Dan E. O'Connell. I. Winston
Payne, ?'hsrles T. Chick. Albert W. Tter
mry. f. N. Fredericks, u. L. Nunnally,
? ?j ? ? -.,? en.l Tnhn ratiafarla.
Grave Diggers Strike,
Get In-crease, Return
New York. Jan. -4? Three
hunrtrefl grave diggers went on
a strike at Calvary Cemetery,
Queensborough, today.
They were ?out six hoiix^.
Fifty bodies arrive at the cem
etery every day. and for a time
the situation looked serious.
The men agreed to return to
work after their wages had been
increased from $1.90 to $-.25 a
day. ??
LABOR HITS i
SCHOOL PLAN
Central Union Opposes Com
missioners' Plan for Aboli
tion of Educational Board.
ACTION TAKEN AFTER FULL
HEARING OF BOTH SIDES
;
-Jenry P. Blair, Head of School
Board, Gives Arguments Against
D. C. Heads' Proposal.
Th* Central Labor Union, representing
nor? than 30,000 workers of the Diatrict,
ast night voted to oppose the plan to
ransfer authority over the schools from
the board of education to the District
'ommlsstoners.
The union acted after Henry P. Blair,
^resident of the board of education, aad
lames F. Oyster, former president of the
ward, had argued at length against the
proposed change In the school system.
[_ast Monday night Conrad H. Syme.
corporation counsel, defended the Com
Tilssioners' side of the argument before
:he union.
The reason given by the Commissioners?
for desiring the change, that they are
low responsible for the money spent on
[he school system but have no say ln
how It shall be spent, wa? refuted by
MT. Blair. The head of the board of
^duration pointed out that every cent
?pent by the board of education ls audit
ed as closely by the District auditor as ls
any expenditure made by the Commls
tloners themaelves.
"How much money have you handlet
since you have been president of the
board of education?" a delegate aaked
Mr. Blair.
"About $12 In cash and between ?WO and
1,000 postage stamps," replied the head of
the school system.
The reply surprised and amused the
delegates. Mr. Blair explained that the
$\m had been sent in anonymously by per
sons who had stolen books and other
small articles from school buildings.
Capital Girl Weds
Greenwich Editor
Miss Ada Howard Leaves Pri
vate Academv to Marrv
William Held.
Greenwich, Conn., Jan. 24.?Announce
ment was made here today of the ?secret
marriage of William Held, a local news
paper editor, and Mlas Ada D. Howard,
daughter of the late Mr. and Mrs. Will
iam Howard, of Washington, D. C.
Miss Howard waa a student In a pri
vate academy at Osslntng. The marriage
took place at the Baptist parsonage in
Portchester on Saturday night, the Rev.
Leo B. Thomas officiating.
Following the ceremony, a reception
was held at a New York City hotel. The
couple returned here today and broke the
news to the bridegroom's parents, Mr.
and Mrs. George Held. They received
the parental blessing.
It was stated here today by friends of
the couple that the bride will gain pos
session of a legacy of thousands of dol
lars when she becomes 21 years old, a
year hence. Her parents were killed
about twelve years ago in a New Haven
Railroad wreck.
The legacy Includes a settlement from
the railroad and property in New York,
Philadelphia and Washington.
The bride onlv recently entered the
Oseinlng school, after having been a stu
dent at the Jenklntown Academy, at Jen
kintown. Pa. The elopers left this after
noon by automobile for Washington.
Earthquake Shocks Recorded.
I-ondon, Jan. 54??Earthquake shocks
were recorded at the West Bromwich Ob
servatory today. The shocks were in
tense and were estimated to be about
2.00O miles sway, presumably ln the vicin
ity of the Black Sea or Asta Minor
Steamer Sinks Trawler.
Dover. Kngland. Jan. 24.?The French
trawler Saint Pol was sunk in collision
today with the British steamship Bram
ham off Folkestone. The crew was saved.
Liner Pomeranian Disabled.
Queenstown. Jan. 21.~The ?Mian liner
Pomeranian, bound for Canada, has been
disabled souUiwest of Fastnet and is put
ting back toward Queenstown for repairs.
The nature of the accident was not re
ported.
5oted Antiquarian 01.
Rome. Jan. 24.?-Giacomo Boni, d tree tor
of excavations in the Roman Forum and
at the Palatine, one of the world's fore
Oioai anf'"""rians _* **cxi_i_____, Ui,
HILLES BLAMES
PRESIDENT FOR
MEXICO CARNAGE
Republican Leader Declares
Wilson Has Sacrificed
National Prestige.
_ .
"A DISGRACEFUL PAGE"
Chairman of National Com
mittee Believes G. 0. P. Will
Win on Democrats' Record.
CALLS M'ADOO FLIM-FLAMMER
Republicans and Bull Moose Have
United in Every State Except
One, Is Report Made.
Special to The Wuhinfton He?id
Chicago. Jan. 24.?An unsparing de
nunciation of President Wilson, even
to an accusation of personal respon
sibility for carnage in Mexico, marked
the Republican party*? keynote
speech, uttered today before the Ham
ilton Club by Charles P. Hille?. chair
man of the national commutes.
Mr. Hilles indicated categorically
the lines upon which the Presidential
campaign will be fought. He drew
his indictment ln plain words and men
tioned the President by name. He ac
cused Mr. Wilson of having sacrificed
national prestige the world orer to a
desire to be revenged upon Huerta.
"To his blind pursuit ot that ha
tred," said the speaker, "Is to be
charged the loss of countless Ameri
can lives."
Again he said: "In all the fair his
tory of the United State? there was
never written so disgraceful a page
as that which must contain the record
of Woodrow Wilson's conduct of our
relations with Mexico."
Secretary McAdoo was accused by
Mr. Hilles of employing the "odious
method of high finance to Juggle the
Treasury statements," aod of "insult
ing" and "flim-flamtng" the American
people.
Official weight as a O. O. P. pro
nouncement was given to Chairman
Hilles' address from the fact that It
was prepared after responses had been
received to a questionale submitted
to 3,300 State and county committee
men In the various States. All save
one State, he said, had reported re
union with the Progressives.
Partisan Appointments.
That the Republicans could win on the
record of the Wilson administration was
the common opinion of the party leaders.
The luncheon at the Hamilton Club was
in honor of the subcommittee of the Na
tional Committee, which Is in Chicago to
confer with the local committee, headed
by Fred W. Upham. on the convention ar
rangements. Secretary James B. Rey
nolds also attacked President Wilson. He
declared that the appointments to the
Federal Reserve Board, the Federal Trade
Commission and other bodies showed
"rank and low** partisanship on the Pres
ident's Dart and declared that the ap
pointment of a tariff commission by the
present administration would be a calam
ity.
Tre? surer George R. Sheldon caused
laughter when he explained the astonish
ment of the treasurer of the English
conservative party when told that Ameri
can treasurers are compelled to give a
public accounting.
"We knight the big contributors and
you Indict them." was the Briton's com
ment.
Charles B. Warren, of Michigan, said
the party had not "welcomed the Pro
grcsrives back." but that the two ele
ments had "shaken hands.''
' hu? r m n ? .Not Selected.
All the national commltteemen insisted
Uiat no thought had been given In to
day's session to the matter of temporary
officers for the convention. This im
portant subject involving the selection of
a temporary chairman, whose political
affiliation may decide the fate of the
party in 1916, as it did In 1912, when
Ellhu Root was given the gavel, will
be taken up at a meeting of the subcom
mittee in Chicago March l?.
Chairman Hilles said it was too early
to discuss the temporary chairmanship,
that it was "something to be considered
at a later session." Many politicai
changes may be rung before the selec
tion becomt's an absolute necessity, and
it Is believed that the subcommittee will
hold off its recommendation until the
last moment. Senator Borah and Sena
tor Lodge have been mentioned as a
possibility acceptlble to the returned
Progres?ives and to those whose ratifica
tion of the G. O. P. ticket in a separate
convention in sought. ?
Rush Cotton to Mexico.
Laredo, Tex.. Jan. 24.?As a result of a
decree just issued by Gen. Venustiano
Carranza removing 90 per cent of the duty
on cotton goods imported into Mexico,
there Is a great rush o? cotton importa
tions through this port. \ During this
morning 75.CO0 yards of cotton goods pass
ed through.
Postal Service Stopped.
Berlin. Jan. 1*4.?Postal servire between
Germany and Greece baa been diacon
U-Q _
British Soon to Have World's
Best Army, Lloyd George,
Sure of Victory, Declares
_
Minister of Munitions, in Remarkable Interview, Says En
tente Powers Are Firmly United and Bound to Win. Avers
a Victorious Germany Would Seek New Conquests.
R. IVOR? M. II..I ??<?> .
{Copyrltht. 911. bgr tk? lattroaUonal News Harsloa.)
I?ondon. Jan. 24.?Few people will quar
rel with the statement that the outstand
ing figure of the war in Great Britain ia
David I.loyd-Oeorge. minister of muni
tion?. For a month past it has been the
aim and ambition of every newspaper
man nn this aide, either permanent or
visiting, to get Uoyd-George to talk for
publication, tip till today he had itead
|fat*tly refused, but, at my earneat uollcl
Itatlon and mainly, of course, becauie he
| wanted to, Mr. I.loyta-George coneented
Ito answer aome questions dealing with
the situation today after eighteen months
of war.
In chooalng the International News
Service as the medium for making his
views known throughout the Unlt??d
States and Canada the minister of muni
tions appreciated the fact that he will ?
be speaking to million? of people all more
or lesa Interested in the world war.
The first question was whether ?Eng
land la really putting Its whole weight
into the war. Minister Ueyd-Ueorge re
plied:
"England is preparing to put It? whole
weight Into the war and Germany will
feel lt in a very short time. It Is an ef
fort auch as Kngland has never made be
fore?a truly prodlgtotu effort. In the
days before the war she had the greateat
fleet In the world, but now she has one
of the greatest armies; and In a very
short time It will be about the heat
equipped array In the world.
? "But that Is not all. A new Britain la
now being developed?a new Industri?!
Britain. 1'nder the preasure of war we
are improving and quickening out indus
fiiNTtv?'tRn ?? pine ?vnt'p
Germany Sends Note Designed
To Settle Lusitania Dispute
Consideration of Public Opinion Here and in Germany Said
to Have Played Important Part in Drafting
Document Just Submitted.
Germany has submitted to the United
States through Ambassador von Bern
?.??itorfr another written proposal designed
to bring about a settlement of the con
troversy over the sinking of the steam
ship I.nettaniR
It was stated on excellent authority
that Germany has agreed to eliminate
from the agreement any mention of the
warning Issued by the German Embassy
the day the l-usttanla sailed from New
Tork. Mention of this warning in the
last proposal was regartrbd as eon/erin*
1 the idea thst none of the 1-X^odd Ameri
can lives would have bee? lost had the
warning been heeded
It is understood also that Germany hai
eWminated her proposed general reserva
tion of admission of wrongdoing on th**
part of the submarine commander, to
which the United States objected.
Tt was also stated authoritatively that
Germany makes reference to a desire to
see the I'nited States take sctlon In re
gard to the questions Involving the free
dom of the seas.
Germany reiterates clearly, it is said,
that the torpedoing of the Lusitania
was an act of reprisal for the British
blocked a? of the German coast. Ex
treme regret again is expressed that
Americans lost their llvr.s and Ger
many freely offers r?parstlon In the
form of Indrmnlty
Th? attention of she G? It?! States 1s
called to the fact that such form* of
reprisals have been discontinued as the
result of negotiations with this gov
ernment and to thr fact that bmad as
surances for the future have been
given.
Consideration nf public opinion In
this country and in Germany were .?aid
to have played an important part in
the document.
Austrians Occupy Scutari,
As Serbian Troops Retreat
-
Drive on City Indicates Negotiations with Montenegro Have
Fallen Through?Austrians Claim Capture of Other
Towns?Montenegro Now Under Austria's Heel.
S??n?l r?hje to Tbe W?Ainfton Btnkl.
London. Jan. 24.?Scutari, the moat im
portant trading city In Albania, has been
occupied by Austro-Hungarlan troops.
The Austrian official report tonight states
that several thousand Serbian troops.
who garrisoned the city, retreated with
out offering resistance.
It Is learned from Rome, however, that
the city fell only after a furious two
days' battle between Austrians and Mon
tenegrins in the Tarabosch Mountains.
Lack of artillery forced the Montene
grins, who were led by Prince Mirko, to
give up.
The Austrians. in addition, report the
occupation of several important towns in
Montenegro. That country now is under
their heel.
The Vienna statement says:
"Scutari has been occupied by Austro
Hungarian troops."
"The ?\ustro-Hungarians have also oc
cupied Vlksic, Danilovgrad and Pod
goritzB, Montenegro.
"At several places the MonU>neRrins did
r.ot, even wait until the Austro-Hun
gsrians appeared, but laid down their
arms beforehand in order to return to
their hones."
The Austrian drive on Scutari is taken
here to indicate that, despite assertions
to the contrary in Vienna and Berlin, the
negotiations with Montenegro have fallen
through. It had been stated that the
Montenegrins were to remain in posses
sion of Scutari in exchange for Mount
Lovcen
Divorce Papers Cannot Be
Introduced In Mohr Case
By HOl'tllK TR?..DWRM,
Providence. Jan. 24.?There were twen
ty-six different papers filed in the Mohr
divorce case during the year and a half
of domestic wrangling that finally ended
by Dr. Mohr'e murder. These were
brought into court today, identified, de
scribed, discussed, and then withdrawn.
Their temporary appearance left but
little weight as evidence, but threw great
light on the ?tate of rnind and soul of
Dr. Mohr and hie wife during those
months.
Infldelltr Not Id Thl? Recoril.
The State sought to introduce these
papers, holding that they had a great
effect upon Mrs. Mohr, "mentally, mor
ally and physically," as well as to cor
roborate the testimony of Halis when he
said that Mrs. Mohr had told him her
divorce case was about to come up in
court and the killing of her husband
"should be done at once."
The domestic difficulties of the Mohrs
became a matter of court record pn F>b
ruary 7. 1914, when Mrs. Mohr filed I
petition for separation, alleging cruelty
On June 6, the doctor filed a cross-peti
tion, praying for absolute divorce.
iand.eJi.t_f. but Attorney
I John J. Fitzgerald prevented this allega
tion going into the record in this case.
On July 6 Mrs. Mohr filed an amended
petition. By a clever ruse of Fitzgerald, ?
! her allegations against the doctor in this ?
document were introduced, although Dr. I
Mohr's allegations against her had Just I
been excluded. In this petition, Mrs. |
Mohr charged her husband with drunken
ness, unfaithfulness, and the habitual
use of opium, morphine, and chloral.
MarrlHK** Date Not Decided.
Tt has been the contention of the State
that worry over this impending action
was one of the motives that led Mrs.
Mohr to seek tit*? d?>ath of her husband.
The State has sa'd thit she was In a
state of fear, dreading tiie publicity of
court action on the infidelity charges in
volved.
"I do not propose to try in this ca.se I
the domestic difficulties of the Mohr fam- ;
lily," was Judge Steams' final comment, ;
and he ruled that all the divorce papers ;
be excluded from the record.
A significant point that came out was '
ttiat Mrs. Mohr alleged she was married
"on or about May 15. 1903." while the
date Dr. Mohr gave for the marriage1
' was not permitted to be read i
ATTACK DOVER
THRICE BY AIR
IN FEW HOURS
Anti-Aircraft Guns and Two
British Machines Chase
Teutons Away.
BOMBS DROPPED ON CITY
Berlin Asserts English Sta
tion, Barracks and Docks
Damaged in Assaults.
FRENCH MACHINES ACTIVE
Paris Claitns Forty Aeroplanes Throw
200 Projectiles at Bulgara'
Camp Near Saloniki^
S,.?.-,*! Cabl? to Tbe WaAinftoo Hmkl.
I-ondon, Jan. 24.?A German hydro
aeroplane passed over Dover at 4 o'clock
this afternoon, says an officia) announce
ment made by the press bureau tonight.
The hostile machine was engaged by all
the British anti-aircraft gun.? at Dover
and was pursued by two British ma
chines. This was the third attack within
the last forty-eight hours.
H. L. Tennant. under secretary of war,
announced that the English had lost
thirteen aeroplanes on the western front
in the last four weeks and the Germans
had lost nine or ten. In this period,
the British employed 138 machines and
crossed the German Unes 1.225 time?.
The Germans, during the same period,
have used approximately twenty aero
planes ln which they have crossed the
RritU*-h line ?STO time?.
-Tonflrm ??? rtHin -tllark.
Berlin, Jan. 24? (Wireless via Sa y ville).
?Two official statements regarding the
German aid raids on the English coast
were issued today by the German ad
miralty.
The first one says: "A German naval
aeroplane, during the night of January
_2-23, dropped bomba od the Matlon. bar
i rack? avna docks ot Bc-ver." -#
I The second statement says: Two Ger
man naval aeroplanes on January 23
I dropped bombs on the aviators' sheds In
: lloughsm. west of Dover. Heavy flr-es
were clearly observed."
?announcing an air attack on Mets by
the French and other German aerial
operations, an official report says:
"An enemy squadron bombarded Metx.
where bombs fell on the bishop's dwell
ing and on a house in the hospital court.
Two civilians were killed and eight
wounded. One aeroplane was shot down
and its occupants made prisoners. Ger
man aviators have bombarded railroad
stations and military establishments be
hind the enemy's front."
French Alrsaea Active.
Paris, Jan. 24? The French war office
communique today said:
"On Sunday night French airmen bom
barded Anizy, Laon, and Nogent
L'Abesse.
"Today seven French aviator? dropped
twenty bombs on Southtulst and Middle
kerke. '
A dispatch from ?Saloniki says: "Forty
French ?aeroplanes yesterday attacked
Monastlr and Guevghell. More than 200
projectiles were dropped on the enemies'
carabe, Bulgarian headquarters and other
military establishments of the Austro
Bulgarian forces."
BELGIANS BOMBARDED
NEAR MOUTH OF YSER
German Batteries Fire 20.000 Shells
in Attempt to Smash Defenses
and Swept On.
Paris. Jan. 2?.?An extremely violent
bombardment by the Germans of the
Belgian line at the mouth of the Tser
was reported tonight by the war office.
No less than 20,00? shells were expended
by the German batteries in an attempt
to smash the Belgian defenses.
Final reports of the action had not
reached the war office at the hour when
the midcommunlquo was issued. First
reports stated that the German infantry
attempted to debouch from their trenches,
but the attack was broken up by the flre
from the Franco-Belgian batteries.
This activity, coupled with reports of
an action farther south along the Y ser
i'anal. indicates preparations for a new
effort to press through, probably to
Calala. .\t Hrtsasa. some German de
tachments tried to cross the oanal, but
the Belgian and French infantry, backed
by the fire of the machine guns Hnd ar
tillery, repulsed the attackers.
FIND JOHN EDWARDS DEAD.
OrlUlcRti* of ??olclde Helurned *b*r
. ?G????t Htllll?
John P. Kdwards. 30. wa*. found dead
In the kitchen of his ?partment ?, ? ISIS
Eighteenth street northwest. yesterday
by hia wife.
The door* and windows of the room
j were closed and gas was flowing from a
?range. Coroner Nevitt relume- a cer
tificate of suicide.
ICdwurds wae employed as ? plat?
l-rinter at the Bureau of Knguixing
and Printing. He ned been out of ern
ia aald. ,
MILITARY BUI PASSES
THIRD HOUSE READING
Compultoi-j* .Service Measure Later
Sent to Lords Where It H??
Its Introduction.
London. Jan. K?The military cotnpul
aory scrrlcai bill passed the bous? of
commons on Its third readme tonicht by
a vote of 383 to X.
The bill was sent immediately to the
house of lords, where It had Its first
reading tonicht.
BRITISH WANT
FINISH FIGHT
Will Defeat Germans ii They
Must Do It
Alone.
MADE IN GERMANY" PEACE
WILL NOT BE COUNTENANCED
? Berlin Papers Are Putting Out "Pecce
Feelers" to See How Nations
Like Inspired Plans.
Out of the discussion In which dip
lomatic Waabincton has been en-raced
since the news was published that
Germany considered making a sepa
rate peace with Belgium, there de
veloped yesterday one positive opin
ion. Thi? opinion 1? that no officiti
action by Germany will follow ths in
; spired articles published in Oermsn
I newspapers and that the publication
iaelf was in tb? nature of a "peace
feeler."
Reports that Germany is consider
ine alao making separate peace with
Japan and with Montenegro were
characterised in Informed quarter? as
"made-ln-Germany" speculations
British Embassy officials, however,
refuaed to discuss the matter in any
way. From an authoritative source,
however. It was learned that ths at
titude of the British government 1?
this:
First?That Great Britain will con
tinue waclnc war on Germany, how
ever lone it may take to win the kind
of victory that will leave Germany
powerless for ? hundred year? to
j resume her pia? e In Ihe world aa a
? flrst-claas ftsrhtinc power
Will !.,?., la> ? ? ?., ??
Second?That Great Britain will
? maintain this flcht-to-a-flntah policy,
no matter whether Germany succeeds
In concluding separate peace with ev
I ery one of her allies
Third?That the deaertlon of Bel
| glum from the cause the allies are
"ghtyaai for ?111 make no difference In
? the Brttlah atrtermlnatlon to continue
flghtlnc V* M the purposes out
lined r, *m prime minister In his
OmSt* Hall anatri h. more than a year
airo, have been achieved; and
fourth?That peace for Germany, at
least ao (ar a? Great Britain I? con
cermxl. will com? only when Germany
is either willing to submit to British
| term? or wh?vn aha has beren so badly
? beaten aa to kaaVe submission neces
i sary.
German Bankers
Demanding Peace
Financiers Declare Empire
Will Be Ruined Commer
I
ciallv Before Long.
?
HpacwJ '?Ne tn Tta* \Ti*ingl'T Herek.
. London. Jan. .24.?The Daily Tele
! graph has received the following from
: Leonard Spray, tte? correspondent at
i Rotterdam:
"Recently a meeting of the di rec
tore of the Duetsche Reichsbsnk, the
1 Schaffhauaen Bankverein and other
! great banking institutions in Germany
\ discussed the financial situation and
; came to the conclusion that it was
: absolutely impossible for Germany to
I remain at war after the end of next
I August without being faced by eoo
i nomi< ruin.
! "This does not mean that by that time
! the Germane will be at the end of their
I resource? for continuing the war. But
! the bankers made it clear to the gov
ernment that If hostilities continuo after
! that date, there will not be left a ?uffl
| clent margin of money for the empire
to resume Its economic Ufe after peace
I is declared
"The groat representatives of German
! inance are bringing tremendous pres
I aure to bear on the government to con
j elude peace before It becomes necessary
to retrench upon this monetary margin.
**ln the view of these- authorities, not
even victory could ensure her being able
to keep hsr commercial head above
water after the war.
" 'Therefore.* they say, we must hav?
peace Ulla year. "
PruuiA Swfffrt from Flood*
I?ndon. Jan U ? Sericee ?iamage has
t>een done by floods in Prussia along
the Oder Valley, says h Central Ntwi
dispatch from Amsterdam
Bsioti Reported in Lei ? tig
l?ondon. Jan. ;<.?A Onerai News dij
patch received here today statea that
aertous rioting broke or: l?*lpeis. Of
many, and that infanto ?a.? -".rafted
from Cologne to quail tn? disturbances
DIPLOMAT AND
FORMER CABINET
OFFICER BATTLE
Truxton Beale. 60, and George
Von L. Meyer, 45. Fight
After "Lie Is Passed."
CAUSED BY OLD FEUD
Erstwhile Secretan' of Navy
Has Head Bumped on Pave
ment by Bold Challenger
AND THEN THE NOSES. ?LEED
Ringside Oficial? Part Co**ri_at_Bt_
Dr. Cary Grayaon Renden
Firat r\sd.
Bald Truiton Baole. diplomat, aged ?
(neat Marchi, to Georg? tob Lrngerk?
Meyer. Cabinet orflcer. retired, aged ?:
??Sir. marl m* outside'-and the? ?
?tart ed
Very ahortly thereafter a - ? ?-,?-**-r|
diplomat might have tr*??. team enthus
iastically bumping the head ot a far
mer Secret?!-?-- of War on a street pave
ment about an ordinary- etotie's throw
from the State. War and Navy Depart
ment Bulldm???t the intersection of
8ev?snteenth and H street? northw*_t, to
be geographlrall??- apeciOc.
When their extemporaneous "second??
two to ? man-finally pried thetr princi
pal? apart and stood them on <ad. Mr
I Meyer had a rapidly spreading "Cloe**?
over one optic. Mr Beale was more or
l'a? aerati he?! up about the head and
', both were bleeding at the now
No one knows how It happened But
I shortly before noon yesterday M reara
I Beale aad Meyer met. prior to a lunch
eon, at which Henry H. Ward wa* ho?t
ito a number of distinguished member?
? of the Nation?! 6ectirlt> Uea__e The
jdlscuasion which ensued did aet relate
; directly to preperedneas. at least, not
al Orsi Friend? ?lasciare it concerned
an old Hew York <___ Arti* wtrlrb the
tw? men had baser n<"l_t*a_ far rmmr?.
(However that may h? Mr B?aie and
' denly waxed tni nient asti Invited Mt
Meyer to "come outside*" la Justice td
?both, lt should be chronleM that th?
? former Cabinet officer baat t__ former
?diplomat to the door and the fMewalk
' by a mustache.
The scene ?as excellent aa tar as
j gallery was concerned, but tba ?how was
j all too ?hort to trait the fleht tana
| Mar*-uis. of Queenab**rr>. rules were
{honored rater in the breach than m the
! observance. Reports were not ln*rtt?i**fi.
but out of the tan**?!** of account?, it
seems thst Mr. Beale swine heavily ?Itti
his rl_ht and miaaed. whereupon Mr.
Meyer planted a neat one on the nro
boecls of Ids opponent taht Immediately.
I In the parlance of the sportine srr'ter?.
"taped the claret ' Though ?lightly mrio
' -*on<*-er*t??d. the diplomat came back at rood
j with a stilf lai? to Mr. Meyer'? right
I eye, continuine the attack with a ?wine
to the noee. which fave htm rather tha
b* ttet of the round. A c!in*r? found Mr.
Mey,r further at a diaad? anlag?, and
?h n the pair strack the pavement, th?
Cabinet mlnlsttr was decidedly *th?
under dog."
\\ I II?? all this was going on?it tao*
! le?? time th?n the reading-four membe ?
?of the Nation?! Security lyeague d< clarea
I for peace at an? price, and. headed by
j William Morrow ?nd llenr? ? Ward.
iwith Capt. Templln Pott?. I". ? ?
.plucked), waded into the melee and i
. stored order at the riak of their clotbr?
: and dignity
? Dr. Cary Grayaon. G S ? . the Pres
ident'? personsl aid. h?pl>en?tsd to be prea
j ent to administer first aid to the l>?tt?**red
! ??rrtor?. after which Mr Beale retired
from the ?cene, while Mr. Meyer tarrttd
; long enough to attend the luncheon be
? fore returning t?? Ma hotel for an rx
l ecutlve ?easion ?Ith a chunk of raw
I beef. Both men were ?ouf to oaUan
j last night.
. New York. Jan. K?A dlapatrh to tbe
New York Sun a?vr
All of Washington was talking tonight
of a flit fight wtveh look place today be
tween George von I?. Meyer, of Boaton.
. former Secretar? of the Navy, and Tn:x
! ton Beale, of this ?in ?ho la a
? tn-law nf the Russian Amb
II ls undiwatood th?t one word I ??
another rntll th? lie ?as paaaed an "<i
leak* challenged the former Secret? > ?h
the Navy to ?1.0 ? ? Iside and
Mr. Mayer did s. aad the two
??oner or ihe sldew??1? than they W***^B|
each tMo t with their flau.
Neither would make any "stateti?????.;;]
night In regard to the affair Mr M?*"*V*"ia,
friend? said In hi? behalf, kose?. 'M
he "had ?seen attacked * That wa? tb*
tnVy comment that was ???thonas?'
Mr. Beale M ? aun of Oen Geatg?
Beai?, one of thr ramoaa < ?lirorala
forty-niner? He ?a? V'nllad Si?!??? Ma
ta?-*- to Peraia. and alao te Oreeoc. Horn
mania ?nd Serbia at one time He U ?
ntunber of the Knickerbocker aad DM*
ver??!? ?dub? of New Tork
aetikjj
> WC '? WM
Nicho Im (roe. tc Lroju
Rom* i?u N-Kmc ? H l?ala ?. Mt
Montrnefrr who ???t-^? \ er\~'-tf,a ? h*J
j \fft fo- !,>oiw G'*??*? th? rta*?? s?**' ??
'the Mon ten-amn co* ? r ?ment tc j'Hr hi*
