AMERICA'S SEA GLORY
RECORDED AT INDIA HOUSE
Striking examples from greatest pictorial
History of the merchant marine and
" 8fy of the organization.
IN THE SUN NEXT SUNDAY.
THE WEATHER FORECAST.
Fair and warmer to-day; cloudy and
colder to-morrow.
Highest temperature yesterday, 43; lowest, 3.
In'tulled weather, ni.i.11 :iml m irlur reports on pago i;t.
tm.
VOL. LXXXIII. NO. 147.
THOMPSON MEN
SHUT OFF FROM
'FISHING TRIPS'
Coiiiiiiiilt'itoGot.$:().ooo to
Coiitiiuu' Work, lint Must
Spend It lp State.
ONLY A YKI.YFKWMOJtK
X. V. CITY SKSsjlONS
Senator's Own District to
lie Looked Into if the
Plan Goes Through.
3FQI
ISTIOX PROPOSAL
TO DIE IX C03IMITTEE
Time to Stop Bickering and
Call Junketers Home, G.
0. P. Leaders Agree.
Indications nt Albany j estcrday wero
that Scnntor Thompson will receive
(he $30,000 extra nppriipilatlon needed
to pay the. bills of hi committee In
Ye.'tlRatlnR l'libllc Servlco CotnnilM
lens. Thero will bo only u few more
meetings In New York city, the greater
port of tho remaining time beliiR
taken up with an Inquiry Into the
lighting system of Senator Thoinp
ion's own district. It Is regarded as
two sided victory. The chairman
cf the commission prevents his com
mittee from being shut off entirely,
but is forestalled from conducting a
".shins excursion."
Strons pressure Is Ising hi ought to
bear by Gov. Whitman to end the
b.rkerlngs among Itepubllcau leaders.
The sentiment expressed by speaker
Sweet, Senator Klon It. llrown and
S.mon Adler, I'cpuhlicuti Moor leader
of the Assembly, was that it Is time
fur .ill committees to llnl.sh up their
ork and come back to the Capitol.
Assemblyman Mcljiilsltlou Intro
duced his resolution calling for an Ill
ustration Into the xpeiitlltuies and
reports of all committees. This was
reftrred to the Assembly Committee
on Ways and Means and will probably
die there.
Senator Tlinmpsou. in 'ailing for a
pr ilong.itlon "t Ills work, ileclatvil that
tli' niembcrs of the ctunmlttee would
triV'i in nelKlit ciiih and the em
ployees uccept reductions in wages to
carry cm tho task.
District Attorney S.vann will begin
th presentation of the lllltmore bills
the Thompson committee to the
I. rand Jury to-day. Tho hotel auditor
who swoie t the bill and two tin
Mllicd Mitnes-.es will be ciilletl, while
h diicimients as filed with the State
I'omptroUcr will I- contrasted with
'he bonks of the hotel showing the
Kiutl r.xJicildltUli'S.
The State Comptroller's oltlco at Al
Mny rejected vcstrrilH.v the claim of
'V I'atiama-I'aolllc Exposition Com
mission showing the payment of $20,
M.I3 to tho New York Central Hall
oail for transportation for the Whlt
n.in party to and from S.nv Kran
' eo. The only reason was that tho
'aim svas not Itemized, according to
"i refiu'.rements of tho nfllce.
TffrllfPcnv Twnirn
TO STOP HEARINGS
''Hslrmnn of I n v est tun tors
. . p
Hefn.rs
lo Unit Inquiry,
Ai.nvs-T, Jan. 24. Indications to-nlRht
'fir that the Thompson committee will
it the evtra month's time asked for by
'l e'lairman of the committee and the
KO.onn ne,, led to pay the bills of the
omntttee, but that most of the re
maining time of the committee will 1k
ovniM to louklng Into the lighting I
'iki mi in Sen.itoi Thompson'H home '
ni'j-ict ami i th.. .ir..ni..L. ..r ti.. .,. I
injur, h ri jiort and iccoiuinendatlons to
' I
' Uirlslature.
Ttie Thonipson committee may nnd It
ise'stry m hold a few mote meetings
In New Vnrk city to clean up the situa
tion ttir re, hut it Is not expected that the
committee will gu into any thorough In
"iK.i,U in of new questions imperiling
I'Ubb servki corpoiations,
in effe. Chairman Thompson wins
.Ight, but the opponents In tho l.eKs.
.iure to tlie contliiiiliig by tho Thomp.
-"!) 'mini ttee of Its InvestUatlon as a
'ikr.ns . uihlon also win, mt It was Uie
?era impulsion lo-nlght that for ail
liraetti al piirioses thn Thompson com
m.ttee has about completed Its work.
Promise Volunteer 1'iiiid.
''nitor Thompson was advised by
' te to.iiigiit it, H telegram ulRned by
H'lijainln Nolan of ST1 Whltlotik ave
nue, Nnn York clt), that a fund would
raifd lj the honest citizens of Now
'rli cjt i to pay thn expenses of tho
IVi,i(iii enininittee.
"T.ii honest citizens of Greater New
ork," said the telegram, "will guaran
"i to raise a tund to continue the inott
ffftotlve linestlgatlon ever had In the.
Mate. Your courase and honesty aro
tl.e admiration of overy Ivoncwt ciMzea
In the Kuto. Continue tbo Rood work."
'!ov. Whitman took a hHnil in swttlltiR
tin. toucher squabble to-day. He had a
toiiR talk with Senator Klon It Brown,
Ilepubllejit leader Iji tho upper branch
'f Hi' I.eRlslmure. Afterward thn lov
'rnnr had iuiother talk with Speaker
Thaioim C. Sweet of the Assembly and
the Republican lloor leader In the lower
fcmise, Simon I,. Adler.
A score or more of Senators and As.
(mblymrn also talked with the Gov-
Continued on fourth rage.
GEORGE VON L. MEYER IN
FIGHT WITH TRUXTUN BEALE
Fists Fly in Old Fashioned Rough and Tumble Contest
in Washington Street After Altercation in a Club
Ex-Secretary of Navy's Eye Cut.
Wahiiin-hton, .Inn. 21. All WashliiR
,0" '"'kins to-night of a fist ArIii
which took place this afternoon between
loorRo von I Meyer of Hoston. cx-Hec-retary
of tho Navy, nnl Truxiun Ucalo
of this city, who In a brother-in-law of
tho Itusnlun Anib.iNt.idor.
Mr. .Meyer- ami Mr. eae, both of
whom are. members of tho Metropolitan
Club, worn In the clubhouse when nn
altercation began. Them has been hard
fccllns between Mr. Meyer aiul Mr. Heale
for a Ion tlmo over an Incident that
hail occurred In a New York club, and
tho old animosity showed lUtelf when
Hie two wero thrown together tnotay.
ii t. . .... ...
.. . .".-.mm mat one word led to
nothcr until the Ho was passed and Mr.
1 Itealo challemretl the ex.Seerei.-irv in
I step outjldo ami settle It.
.. ,, ., .
.Mr. .Meyer tl Id
so ami me two wero no sooner on the.
sidewalk than they were at each other
with their lists.
A fine old rough and tumble contest
was under way when Capt. T. M.
Potts, who was a member of Mr. Meyer's
staff when the latter was Secretary of
tho Navy, rushed In between the two
and separated them. Hoth combatants
entered tho clubhouse In a Unity mussed
condition, Mr. Meyer was slightly cut
under one eye and Mr. Ile.tle's forehead
was minus a patch of skin.
Ir. Cary T. Grayson, the President's
Physician, happened to be In the club,
house and he Immediately treated Mr.
Meyer' eye.
Capt. Henry Ward was giving a p:o
parcdncs. luncheon at the Metropolitan
Club and Mr. Meyer was to be one "f
the guest of honor The fracas caused
a lot of excitement at the luncheon, tint
the ex-Secretaiy of the Navy calmly en
tered and took his mm) after his clothes
had been dusted and his eye cared for.
Mr. lleale was not at the luncheon,
Mr. Meyer remained until the end of
the luncheon, and Mr. Heale als stacd
In the clubhouse, but the two did not
meet lIRalll.
Neither would make n statement to.
nlKhl about the affair.
Mr. Meyer's friends said on hl be.
WM, THAW 3D CATCHES
PALM BEACH BURGLAR
Wife lirnbs Kevolvcr From
Culprit us lliisl.iiii. mill Two
Others Simple.
I'.m.m Hkvcii. ria.. Jan 21 Mr. and Comidi.nts regaiding the molality of
-Mrit. William Thaw 3d. Vainier l.uiKley I t-ccnes In the Serge de tilaghllefT Hatlet
of I'mvidetice. whom thej weie entel- ' Itusse at the Cvntury upera limine led
mining, nnd their servants hud a hand tlie police to bi uin an Investigation, an I
to hand tight to-night with a burglar 'at the Saturoav matinee last week lep
lu the Thaw villa and c.iptured the In- , r seiitallves of th depai tmeiit were sent
truder The man. who had a Jimmy, to witness the production. As a result
bl.tcklttk,
revolver, skeleton keys and
chhirofoini, put up a hard battle.
As a detective tivjk the chloroform
from tlie robber lie elled: "I meant this
for you. Mis. Thaw." and breaking away
grabtwd a table knife, but was quickly
overpowered.
This was after Mrs. Thaw had askeil
him If he had not roblx-d the home of
Mr. and Mrs. Harlan Kent linlton of
Iike Unrest, on Christmas eve. It was
not puMkiy known until to-night that
the I Wilt on home had been filleted and
nil of Mrs. Itolton's Jewels taken. The
Ilollon loss Is said to have been 12,000.
Tho Thaws and their guest wero at
dinner when they heard a commotion on
the veranda and rushing out saw their
cmplosec. Marcellus Turner, a negio.
grappling with the thief. Turner had
seen the robber take ofT his shoes and
Mart to climb a tree, presumably to
swing to an upper window, when he
grabbed him. The two were rolling on
the Rround when Mr. Iongley and Mr.
Thaw arrived and Joined In the eon-
the four HtruRRied, .Mrs. maw
snatched a revolver from the thief'
hip pocket. The robber was locked In
a room while .Mr. maw weni lor ui
The iiecm said that when be nrst
iRrabbed the thief the latter offeied him
, 1200 for freedom. Mrs. Thaw said that
the burfilar came to her piazza this after
noon whllo she was sitting theie and
askeil some questions, alleging that he.
was a bicycle repairer. The Thaws were
Invited to a dinner to-night at the open
ing of the Heach Club, nnd they believe
the burglar knew It.
Some burglars woruen neie success-
fullv last season, making seveial inlilier-
les. among which was one of 110.000
from Mrs. Charles P. Vail of (icneva,
I N. Y.
FEAR POWDER PLANT AIR RAID.
I'. S, A (tent Ask II ilroiieroilnne
turners tn l.naril Mnchliie.
PHil.AtiEl.PHiA, Jan. 21, Itobeit I?.
Glendltililng and Clarke Thomson, prom
Inent socially and owners of hydroaero.
planes, have been asked by Federal
agents to guard their planes so tint
they cannot be used in the air on the
du Pont powder mills In New Jersey
i and Delaware. The Government in-
vestlgatorn requested that the ttying
boats, which are stored along th ,
Delaware Itlver, be aismanncti or piaceu
under guard.
Tho Federal Investigators' visit, It Is
believed, was Influenced by rcixirts In
towns near Penns drove, N, J.. that an
aeroplane had l en heard circling over
the powder mills at night.
GERMAN EXCHANGE HIGHER.
Teuton Mar llnve Men $ llli,lin,.
000 to Holland to Aid Rates.
Spnial Calilt Otspatch lo Tiia Six.
Ixinpon, Jan. 24. (lormati and Kng
llith exchango lates havo Improved
allRtrtly In Ajnste,rda.m, telegraph Itot
terdaim. It learns that the recent check
In tlie depreciation of the marks waa
due to gold deposits In Dutch banks.
Tlie exltent of thesw la unknown, but
Dutch financiers told the emissary of tho
DeuUch Itelchsbank last week that
nothing short of fi2.fjoo.non (ii2,r.no,.
000) to clear I ho Dutch market of nil
iiiMr would be of any use.
CUBA, Ff.OBII... (SAVANNAH. AUtitlSiTA.
4 All Steel l-tlretrlc Merited Trillin Dally.
Atlantic Cosit Lint. Ofllce, U'way A :tii Ut.
Adv.
NEW YORK, TUESDAY, JANUARY 25,
half, however, that "he. hail been at- i
tacked." That was tho only comment
that was authorized.
Truxtiui Heale In fD years of age, ,
but has the apppariiticn of belnit con
siderably younger. He Is of an athletic
build and a Rood sized man. Mr. Meyer
Is OH years old mid also h actlvo ami
robust.
Mr. Heale Is a brother-in-law of John '
It. McIamii, tin- publisher. He married
Harriet lllalne. daughter of James tl. I
t Hlalne, lint they were divorced. H Is a
JiMtn of tlen, lleorge lleale, one of the1
famous California 'forty-niners. Mr.
Heale was United States Minister to
Persia and nlso to (.Jrcece, ltum.inla and '
Serbia at ono time. He Is a member of
. the Ixtilrkcrliockcr ami University clubs
or .New votl..
Mr. Mry,, besides having bren Set-re
tary of the Nnvv under President Taft
"'as Pnstma.ster-ilcnrr.il under the
iwoeveii niiministralinii ami has scrveit
!, Ambassador to Italy anil to Itussln.
He Is an overseer of Harvard Unlver
sin-
TriiMuu lleale was a member of the
Thaw part at Cafe Martin on the eve
iiIiir of tlie murder of Stanford White
He was illvorced by Harriet lllalne In
I SPG. two years after their marriage,
she uIlrslUR non-support and Retting the
custody of their only child. In 190 J Mr,
Heale was married to Miss Marie (?e
of San Itafael, Cal., a young woman
about whom Mr. lleale, had previ
ously had a tight with Frederick
Meirlott. editor of the .Vncs f.rflrr, .
Journal devoted to California social Koe-
j sip, oer an article which Mr. lleale
I contended was unfair to Mist Oge. The
i edllor was shot three' times, lint re
covered from his wound and sued Mr.
lleale,' but failed to recover damage
Mr. lleale was born In Washington
March , IsSii. Ill grandfather was the
celebrated Commodore Truxtiui of the
I navy. He himself Is a graduate of the
I Columbia law school nf the class of 'T.
III 1 1t: Mr lleale was api.ititeil a
' member of thn Assay Commission by
i l'resldenl Itoosevelt In making the
I appointment Col. tnncvclt H,tld that he
I had for "enine time desired to recognize
hi suitable Cuiilon Mr. Truxtiui Iteale's
signal services In the community In
I which he lives,"
POLICE CENSORS SEE
NEW RUSSIAN BALLET
As
liN'Milr Opera I'mniif roller
Will Visit .Miioislinle
McAdtiti To-ilii.
Third Deputy Commissioner Lawrence
i ft. Illinium sent a letter to John llrown,
business comptroller of the Metropolitan
(ijieia Company, who Is managing the
ballet, yesterday leqiiestltig Mr. llrown'
i juesence at an informal hearing befor.
Chief Magistrate MnAdoo at 11 o'clock
this morning. The letter follows.
Serious complaints have been re.
celved by this department as tn cei
tain alleged objectionable features of
the ltiis.in Mallet performances at
the Century Tlie.it ie. The Saturday
matinee was attended by witnesses in
whose Judgment this department ha
i contiileiue, and their statements aie
on hand.
i In ortler to avoid rccouise to the
law and assuming that after the ob
jectionable features have been pointed
! out to you. you will correct same, anil
I after consulting with Chief Citv Mag-
Istrate McAdoo, I am wilting to re.
quest jour pieccnco hi Judge Mc- '
Adoo's oince, 300 Mulberiy stieet, at
11 o'clock to-mnriow morning, Tue- I
day. January 25. when you will be
Joined by representatives of this de
partment, It I Important for you to lie present '
al the time mid place mentioned,
The Inquiry started by the police came
as a complete sui prise In oltlclals of the
Metropolitan Opera Company. Mr. llrown
said he would comply with the order
of course, but could not say Just what
stantl he would lake.
It was pointed out by those In au
thority at the theatre that the com
plaints might have referred to lertaln
scenes in "Scheherezade" or In "I." Spies.
Midi d'un Kaune." The former ballet
was given a few seasons ago at the i
Winter Garden, where no objections
wero raised, ,
An amendment to the unoltlclal "white
list" of ceiisoird plavs Issued everv rVw
.mouths by the Catholic Theatre Societv I
(was sent out yesterday, ilealltur evcln.
slvely with the perfoniianie at the fen
tury Theatie. It was headed by a quo
tation from the society's announcement
a year ago concei nlng the growing im
morality of the stage.
UNION PACIFIC HEAD IMPROVES
President Xlnhler Iteeoverliiu fter
I'llll nn Ice,
ii.WAHA. Jan, .'l President A I.
Mohler of the Union
Pacific Kallro.nl,
who fell on the Ice
yesterday while
skating, wa much improved to
day
His physicians believe that Mr. Mohler
who Is fill years old, soon will bo out
again,
LINCOLN, SPY, STILL MISSING.
Kalrl lo llnvc Iteeelved Lxrue Snmi
mill (.one West. '
Ignatius T. T. Lincoln, who boasted 1
so loudly about being an
Im... .,,.iinnt i
Intel national
spy, was still missing yesterday.
The t
there i
reucrai aiiiunriiies iieuted that
was anything reliable In tho report that
Lincoln was on a train bound for tho
Pacific, coast that was due In Denver
yesterday.
The story was that Lincoln received
two large amounts of money on Friday,
was conducted to the Pennsylvania sta
Hon and placed aboard thn tiler. Tho
men who aided In Lincoln's tscapn nro
known, It Is said, to the special Investi
gator. l-:x)epuly .Marshal Johnsoii, from
whom Lincoln cKoaHl, s now working
for Capl. tlllley of the Dcnairtmcnt of
Justlte In tho hope of llndlng Lincoln.
Ptnehursl, N, C, eentr of outdoor inert.
Rottl l.'arolln., liollr lun, Utpiihlr. New
pen. A4v.
FILIPINOS FREE
IN2T04YEARS,
WILSOITS PLAN
Senator Clarke. Offers Sub
stitute Hill After Presi
dent Calls on Him.
-UKASITM. IS FAT KIT KM
TO PASS TIIK SKXATti
W.vlits-iiToy. Jan. 21, President Wil
son has virtually given bis approval to
an ameiiilment to the Philippines govern
ment bill now pending In the Senate
vvhlili provsles for the Independence of
the Hlaiiibt In from two to four years.
The amendment was Introduced In the
Senate to-day by Senator Cktrke of
Arkansa. It was offered an a substitute
for nnother nmendmcnt by Senator
Clarke which had been before the Senate
for several weeks.
Till first amendment gave Independ
ence to the Filipinos In two years from
the passage of the not and directed the
President to beRln negotiations al once
for an international agreement with tho
leading Powers to rrsect the Imlipend
ence and neutrality of the Islands.
President Wilson learned a few days
ago that there was a stioiig probability
that If the Clarke amendment, proios
Ing hide iH'tuletice III two years, came to a
vote it would pas. It jvas learned that
a majority of the Democrats favored It
Wilson ('nils nn i Inrke.
The Problem sought nut Senator
Clarke when he beard of the situation
and proposed a moJltlc.it ion of the
amendment The President, It I under
stood, went lo the Ctiiir.tli lintel, wheie
Senator Clarke llv.s, to see liim about
the matter
lie iKiluted out to the Senator the ililil
cully of reaching any international
' agteemeiit under the condition that
now pievall In Kurnpe The Pieslibnt
nlo suggested it might be advisable to
put a piotlstou In the amendment that
if the President denned It Inexpedient
at the end of four years to ptoclalm
self-govetnment In tlie Philippines he
rdmuld U einovered to state that fa-1
to Congress In a message and ask that
iudeH.Midenre be postponed.
Senator tiaike agreed to the amend
ment. To-day he Intioduced It. The
President has assured Ills fl lends in Con
gress that he will not oppose the amend
ment If the Iciiiociats in the S. natc
favor it.
' The iisldcnt I'liiiiiiiiesloni r from the
Philippine. Manuel (Quezon, has given
Mils appioval to it as fulnllng the ple.Ine
made by th" Iinioeriit In their patty
platfotm looking to llldependett' e
iflillls llxpeeleil tn I'ns. II.
Senator Hltihcoek had a confennie
with the Pieshlent io-dny on the ubj-ct
ami exprtseil the opinion aftei the con
ference that the bill c.iiryirg the liaike
amendment would probably pass the
Senate, but said that a few minor
i amendments would be made to it The!
Senator Is not sn sure It III paes th,. j
House i
When it became knoau at tlie Senate
to-day tll.it the President had done tlie'
unusual th'lig of going tn Senator,
Clarke's hotel to confer with him on the I
I Philippine legislation then- .is ninth
comment The relations of Senator
Clarke with the Adainlstratlou weie not
so cordial in the last session of emigre. !
lie fought the Administration ship pur'
chase bill, and many of the men cisc,
lo the Prlsedeiit tried tn ptevent Ills
selection as President tiro tetn of thn'
Senate. Mr Clarke won over hi op
ponents after several day of hard fight-1
inc.
The vote on the Philippine bill. It was
soi III . will probably be postponed for
several day. The bill was laid before
tlie Senate at 2 o'clock this afternoon.
, The prlncjpal speech was made by Sen
ntnr llnrah
TO OPPOSE NEW TRADING ACT.
1 . s, llolils llrlltah l.nn Xunlnst
llealliiK Willi Herniiuia llleunl.
Washinoton. Jan, 2t. Vlgnrnu pro.
test will be sent to (Jreat lliitaln bv thU I
tiovernment within a few days agalnt 1
the boycott features of the recent exten- '
slon of the trading with the enemy net
passed by the Itrltlsh Parllameiit. i
Under Hie term nf these extension
Ilritlsli merchants may be nrohlblteit
from tradliiR with any Inillvlduals, Mrm
or corporations In neutral cnuntrle
which had tradn relations with business
houses In tountrles at war with tireat
llrituln.
In the protest whkh will go to
Iiiiilun the United States i ioi eruuient
will contend that the i est rle Inns Im
posed coimtltule unlawful lutrrfetence
with American trade. It will take the
position that it Is a well esl ibllshed
principle in iiiieni.iiioii.il law mat the I
1U.111I lie of a person, llrm or coriKiratlon '
ll.xes lis entity ; that with lespect to
comniene In time of war the trade of a !
person, Arm or cortmratlon resident In
neutral tountiy lias a neutral status and
consequently Is not subject to Interference.
In liausll the goods of such a firm, the
, mete will hold, ate not subject to con
I flscatioii by a belllgeienl unless they arc
1 contrail and and arc consigned to an -
enemy country. I
WILSON GETS DIX A JOB.
Ri'
tint ernnr
tsrw
Cnnrl
llnnnll.
Fortune
111. Paso. Jan. 21
In outer
lo earn
living John A. I)lx, ex-dnvernoi- of New
! York, may lake up his icsldetice In
Hawaii.
Charles I!. Forlios, chalriii.ni of thn
Public Utilities Commission of Hawaii.
...n.i.. i... t.l r ... .... .... ..
"""" ti""-"i i," i iii-hi in-nay w e
,. ,.,., ,. m,.,.!,!,.-,,,,, , i..
olsco, whence he will return to Honolulu,
K..,i .
"President Wilson and Senator u'llnr.
man both Informed me It was absolutely
necessary to proi-ldo a place for Dl.
They asued for u place that
Wlllll. I iviv .
riiieil them
tr. ono i. in in ii fi veur i i,r.......i i
.UI"-'-' Tl j .11. ... I,,.-,J II, 1111 ,
no such slllons were available, but I
U...I I,. ..I,.,.n 1,1... ...11
interest lit n Klnaller M.lurv "
i mi. iven in ini,i' i io- ..... i
nothing left of the fnituue hi
V"'" l,OH-
sessed, and desires In get as far
away '
from old ass K'lntlon as possible whllo
rudeavoiliiR to rehabilitate himself" I
Mr. and Mrs DIx have been visiting1
in California for several weeks.
Tor noiirlshlni diet in mpn or sore 'hroM
ties llorllck'. Mtltrd MtU. AtoIJ ubstituiM.
Aiv.
1916.
Vopjrtpht, 1916, hy the Hun
WHYFORDQUIT
PEACE VOYAGE
TOLD AT LAST
His K.ves Opened to German
Idea I,: Sehwimmer '
Documents.
WAII OX OSCAR II.
AIDED HY LOCIIXKK;
II .1. IIKtlllllMT ll ii WOHTII.
The true story of the historic wranK '
lings on the Ford peace ship. Oscar II.,
and of the happenings at Kirkwall that
led to Henry Ford quitting the stop-the-'
war pllxriiti at Chrlstlanla and return
ing to the United States has never been
i fully published either in the United
' States or England. When I left t'open
' hagen the American newspaper cor
respondents had wood reasons for su-1
' peeling that these fads had len
1 secretly and heavily censored by Mme.
Schwlmmer, the self.tyed "expert ad
viser" to the mission, lefore the stories
were sent ashore at Kirkwall, I
I soon learned on my return from
Norway on the Krlstlanlafjord vester
Id.ty that all of the many stories descrlb
I lug the first big row on "Ford's Folly" I
that I know weie written had reached
New York In a sadly r, Hilled condition. '
I heard rumors before we reached
Chrlstlanla on the outward trip that'
'apt. Ilempel of the isonr II. had of.
feted to allnH .Mine. Schwlmmer tn see
all of the correspondents' despatches be
fine they were handed over to the King's
harbor master at KlrkAiill for delivery
at the cable olllce there. I know pol
lively that the contents of my 2,0"0 word
message to the London Inli Mull ere
known m the Ford "insiders" a few
boms after I had delivered It to the
ship's piiccr and 'hat not a line ever
reacliiMl I.ntnlnn.
in the luiil of subsequent discoveries
It is not at all surprising that Mine
Schw limner should have been eager to
pin a check upon the comment of the
!ievvp.iN.r men.
Jti't what it was that tinned Mr.
lord back linn of us pteclsely knew
at the time he took his .1-clslou to re
till. i tn the Umteil States. We knew,
of inuts,.. tout ii,,. party bad left New I
York on I . einls r I bless.il by the Ger-'
i man Aiis-iicntis, pro-German and Mr.
lliy.m. and thn four day out its mein
1 Per (rid bt i nine the most disputatious
troMd ever iloated by a hull at sea. Hut
' not one of us newspaper men wa able
to discover when It happ ned precisely '
what It wa that had given the lihallslfc
.Mr Until bis tlrst "hunch" a to tlie use
'that was being made nf Ills high mlndeil ,
, simplicity ad Ins high plied millions. I
i ne iiisiiiiisimmiert must pave come.
1 w I tli smbb nnes-.
I l.llr Mine. II n in Iter!' Million.
' The I, v Is supplied by t itnu.. mysteri
ous document which Mme. Schwlmmer
had claimed to have received from
statesmen high In the councils of the
biillgi'ciit nation inmmittiug tli-m
ilelinlt ly to appro al of a peace con
ference Upon them she had based h-r
ontlibnt claim that all i.urnpe wa
staged In re "iv. tll Uord delegate
I with op ii .nil This m felons do-ler
I I not iiiilllaiy lo hiv,. a place In his
tory with the Humbert millions
Uor days Hie lluiiuai .an peace agl
tatm had been boasting to tlie deb gale
of the Importance of these myst rlous
papers. Th. tm.illc atlon wa that they
had all but settled tin- peate mission
In .nlvaii.s
It may be miagln il lll.it the news
paper men wete keen to know their
contents. A batch of pipers with Im
portant!' iiiotigh to ill t an end to a
world wai weie uopetiy no object of
i liriosity on tlie patt o( nine seeker
of news The geneial Insistence Anally
ibltEe.l Mine Srliwlmnier to disclose
their naiiite at tut open meeting.
.....
-"'
by one these vastly eignlllciint assents
wen' bmiuiit fotth and vaguely Idea
tilled, aiul. lo, they turned out to be
the same old papers toilet led In Uuiope
last spring by tlie Hungarian agent of
the G'lm.in peace piopaganda after the
Women's Peace Confei wice at The
I Hague
So far .i. the debxates and the news-
i paper men weie cniiretned. M'ne.
Schxvltn tei's bluff had been effectively
tailed Mm the Hue significance of
what I. ail happened that night was not
Ihiow n till later. That was December
Kirkwall, Ktiglaiid, mid H Is now
",,wn thai not until that day had
Mr. Fold hlmwlf known the true 'nature
of these papers in the strength of whose
alleged Impott.mce he had largely been
moved to undeitake his peace mission,
(in that day Mr. Ford's leturn wuh
made Inevititbb, a the only way out
nf an linp"!hle situation
Many explanation were given, but
none of the explanation explained. The
little luo-Oerinan game had been ex
posed, and tlie kindly- Mr Unrd saw.
albeit hazily, when- lie stnod The break
up of the entile projei t began in the
munis of all lhn.se on tmaid the Oscar
II arter this r.imoiis meeting in in,.
oce tn. Herman llernteln a friend of
Tolstoy --Judge lien l.lmbev of lieuver,
S S Mcliure and (int. ll.nina of North
Dakota, disgusted with the course of
events nf vx III Ii this disclosure wa the
climax, made up their minds lo quit
the paily on teaching Norway It was
a levolt against Mine. Sehwhnnier and
UitllH P. Lochiier, the "peace secielary,"
who never left the side of the dazed
1 Mr Ford
liven 1'nril llliln'l Know.
I hail asked Mr. Ford bluntly Just lc
J fom we reached Kllkwall, "Do you think
this peace ship plan is C.irm.in piopa
1 gaiiila'." I mlglit have step the full tmth
In his answer The mulllmllilou tlrn
'motor car niaiiufactiiirr answered wear-
ily lint frankly, "I don't know." Then
' and there he aduiltled tli.it he was
wholly at sea as to the real meaning of
'his own ventuie, and that othets might
I have given it a meaning he had never
' suspet ted it to have.
, "Well, If yoll Mini out that It Is tier
man propaganda will you drop it'."' I
' asked.
"That discovery," he answered, a hit
O IS III .1 l 1 tl .. nwuin IIUl IIIIII.U
""' r"1 .'.l"U VCn "f'r' ""y ""' '",
liilit sunimeil up the bewildered state
l"f 'r l'"m H " ' "" of Ills
unlttue pilgrimage.
iio.. Hie tll'sl few d- v:' 'Peaee a ' I
..iv,...ii,.s imivi.r.,1 .ii .
I'l" - ..it... in,, nieni
CioiHiniid nil Srrnml
I'niir.
hKT(i (IVhTHIt are certified,
'the hllle IHK "II del) sin II lot roil llisa
I on In I ti I f shell oysters nt crrllned freih
nets, purity nJ f.iiuliit Urep-aea flavor
I nei
lit;.
Vvinting antt I'tibtlsUint) A&stwinttoH,
COMPULSION BILL PASSES
COMMONS, VOTE 383 TO 36;
TO BE LA W BY FEBRUARY I
CHIEF STEPS IN TEMPESTUOUS
PASSAGE OF CONSCRIPTION BILL
The compulsory military service hill wuh intrmluceil in the House
of Commons on .Inntinry (5. The vote on the tlrst reading wits
403 to 105.
A Cabinet crisis followed. J-'ir John Simon, the Home Secretary,
resigned. Three other memhciH of the Ministry threatened to resign.
The Irish party decided to stantl by the Government and tt motion to
kill the bill when it came up for second rending on .January 12 wits
lost by.
431 to 39.
The bill passctl its third reading by
383 to 36.
It is now in the House of Lords. Th
it through is indicated by the following programme
January 25 (Tuesday) Second reading.
January 20 (Wednesday) Third reading.
Janunry 28 (Friday) Parliament lo be prorogued.
February 1 (Tuesday) Bill to be law.
I SCUTARI TAKEN BY j
' AUSTRIAN TROOPS1
Three luviiilinj; Annies Now
I'lisliinir Korwiuil in Al-
li.illillll ( "Jtlll ii
lin.UAI.S XKAIt AVI.dXA
cii,i inhlf D"i"iteli In Tm: St
LoMkis-. Jail. 21. Scutari, the most
.inpottant city lit northern Albania, fell
into the hand nf the Austrian yester
day. Iteports that the t Ity had Iwen
raptuicil were olllclally contlrnifil from
Vienna to-night. No resistance was
offi red, the Serbian Rarrlson stationed
111 the tn.vn having "retreated without
lighting," according to tho Vustrlan
f tateiin nt.
Nlksltch. in rcntt.il Montenegro, anil
Hanilogiad anil Podgorltza, on the Al
banian Isinler, have also been captured
by the Austro-Jlnngai I. in Invaders, The
Austrian ar Ofllce statement follows :
Yesterday the Austrii-lluiigai Ian
troops ciitertl Nlksitch, tianllogr.nl and
Podgorltza,
The disarming of the country (Mod
icneuro) is pioieeillng without col
lisions. We occupied Scutail yesterday. The.
Seiblsii jarrlsnn rfticated without
righting.
A Saloinca despatch savs that an Aus
tro-llulgail.tn ai my ha captuieil the
city nf Herat. Unity miles from Aviona,
the principal Albanian port. ,
The same despatch say- thai III",
llulg.tr ale advancing on Aviona. wtwie
tin' Austrians are approaching luraz7.o j
mi the north Albanian coast, the si ml
blgge.si imrt At Durazzo listed Pasha
Is organi7ing his force preparatory to
making a stand, the despitch adds. ,
Albania Is now be.ng Invaded bv
three armies: the Austrlati. who cip.
Hired Scutari and are now mm
southward, the second Austrian army,
advancing against 1 mrazo, anil the
tlulgars, moving on Aviona At thes
two I.tter Albanian ports Italian for-e
are concentrated w hos, hircngth Is vari
ously estimated at between .'.n.iimi ami
I'.'i'.oiln. The reci nt teport of ihelr with
drawal remains imconllrmeil.
I'arazzo lies near the southeast, in 1
i extremity of the lake of tin- sam nam" i
..... ........ .-...I . ......
i aim ii'iiy-nic inio- -.miui-;,-, ,.i , ,n
taro. The city has yard for shipbuild
ing and manufactures textile and Un
arm. Scutail I nineteen miles west of t lie
Monte'iegrlu port of Dulclgno, winch,
togtther with the only other Montene.
gtln poit, Antivarl, wa eaptuied by
the Austrian yeMerday.
AIR RAID O.V MOS' ASTIR.
lilt French IMiinc Shell llnluiir mid
(.eriiinn lleitilq nil rter.
iji'rin 1 it'll r tits)Kiir. in Tin: i v
LnNlsiN, Jan 24 -The Salniuca
cor-
lespontlent of the I'HJ Ciroiiici
tele-
gi.iphs
' 'Thirty-two Urenth aeroplanes left
Salonlca at T o'clock this mot mug tor
Monastlr, where a concentration of tier
man and Itiilgar troops was reported
lecently. The number of the troops was
variously i-etlmaled. iim (light Iook
Just a llltle more than two hours. The
1 weather was line, but at ! o'clock a vio
lent wind aiose.
"Some of Hie aircraft were battle
planes They bomltiTd'! Hie Herman and
Hiilgarl.in hradiunrtern with gun, while
tin other neiiipl.incs diopived shells and
IhiuiIis.
"Hulldmgs wtilch were known to be
used as hospital wero avnlileil by tho
raiders As the last squadron was pitch
ing in, a tudsternUH north wind r.o, but
llying In regular order, the aeioplanes
, crrcbd over the town.
"Tlie pilule sow clouds of black smoke
rollliM fixim the places wheie bombs
from tlie at midline had fallen , the
machines were vlgoiously -Helled bv bat
teties II 1 1) 11 1 lit tile town, bill ivciv one
letiirned unhurt to Salonlca al n ion tin
he way back they dl'opptd Hie icm.ininu
bombs on two or three villages iie.u
liuevghell, where Hulgnrian (roups .ire
concentrated."
The Ddilw .Moll's Salonlca concepoud
i e n t ilescilbes the raid as follows:
"The raiders dropped 2H bombs upon
Monastlr and inn on liuevgliell, Hog.
tlaiicl (wiv-t of Lake Doiran) and tin
rentze, Indicting very great damage.
The lllght cnveied 2110 m'les nut and
back. The exploit was a Impoitnut us
the recent French laid on Stutlgail,
which necessitated Hying over the
VtwRce. In to-day's raid the aeroplanes
had to rise K.Iino feel in older lo get
clear of the mountains."
Hnj' Ilritlsli Losses tun,
Spfrla) Inhlf linimlrti In Tar Si'v
LoNPoN. Jan. 21.- To.diy's olllci.il
Ilritlsli ciusualty list, mvcilmj all fionts,
gives Hie number of ofllcets at 22, fi o'
whom have been killed, and the ninr.
her of men as H2t, '.'.Ml nf whom hnv
been klllnl.
rtii nitMnvditoiiH wiioivi.
I'A UTVIKNT CAMS TH I lailtlllV.
Srnlsiard Klorlibt 1,1,1.. '.' 16 I' M ,e,,
host equlpiira riorldnlrtiln, Inq ,1111 H'wat'
AtX,
lie (iovei nmcnt'.s plun to rush
GERMANY DISAVOWS
SINKING LUSITANIA?
. nliiiii;iiiii
trrf lln
Set I lt
Positive
Note Tlliil
Incident.
Hern
Will
m: xotk to ai stima
J W vsinv.T" Jan. 2t Count von i
IteinstntlT is uiiiii-rstooil to have rcte.ved
I to-night fioin his tlovermnent a new
j nop- to Hi.. United State on the l.is.
, t -i ti i.i i onlrovi-tsy. Although the tier
man Ihulnssy ri fiieil either tn confirm
i or deny the lepntt that tioh a note had
arrived II was coutidctitly predicted that
a settlement of the controversy I abmit
! to take place. The Ambassador piobably
I will call at Hie Stale Itepartment to
' 'inrmw anil piesent tile minmunlcatloti
I to Sei titaiy Lansing
For two wifk tlie ilciman llmbassv
i has in en expecllng word from Merlin
whith would enable the Ambassador to
effect a final settlement of the emtio
versy. At tin- last Interview bitweeti
; himself .nid the Secietaiy of State the
two reached an agp ement. It Is said, on
J all feature of the proposed agieement
except the language to tie used In the
I disavowal asked of tjermaiiy
Illllllllllllr Vleotli f Warning.
Uollonlug this Interview a form of
expiission sugjesied by Mr. Lansing and
approved by the Presldnit was fo: .
warded to Herlln. wl'h a suggest ion
from the Ambassador, it Is unilei stood,
that If possible the expicsi"ii be ap
proved It was staled t -night that t iei many
finally had agi 1 to i iiinln.ite ftniii the
txt of the agreement any mention of
the warning issued by the liciman Km
bassy the day the l.iisitama sailed on
her last trip from New York. Mention
f tills warning is mulct spind to have
U iti i iintait.ed in Hie last previous pio
p"s,il. who li was reje ted aftei Ptoldent
WlNon had , tisulci ed it
I'. ! illi'li i,i,i'l also that liiriuanv
has left ,itt he I pioposeil general ri er
v.tt.on of ailmis-'on of wtongdoitig -in
the part of to. subin. trine commander
lo which the United State objicteil
.Mention of tin- warning Is believed to
have b'eii most ohj. ctloti.ible to tne Ad
niiiilstrat. on. In itfect it wa legatdcl
a c, nvinitig the 1,1, -a that no A merit an
lives would have been lost hid the warn
I lug I'd n lleciled
It is also stated that 'n liet last com
munii ation ili-rtn.itii makes n leference
to a llese lo see the United Stltes
take .n t 'mi in regard to the quest! m
IIIVi'lV'l-K the fieeiloin of the seas
n New viii'iinn iite,
llfti ials of the State Depai tnieni de
li. id report th.it the United States was
preparing lo .nldii-, a new note to Aus
tiia char.n ti-nzlng as unsatisfactory
ci it. nn feature of the last Austrian H"te
on the sinkluu of the Anemia.
"Mallllf l. tilled out of W'h-,1" .loth"
was the ,-tat.nieiiI of a lush State De
paltnienl nlTlcl.il when his attentlnti was
called In lln lepml.
Settlement nl the Al , .ma totitioviist
it was explalnc'i, h.is b.-rn held u.o
pending leceipt in, ill Ambas.iiloi Pill
held of Austria's denial of responsibility
for tlie slinking of the P ,v u llneV
I'eisla. sunk abnin ;-,. tinie (hat All.
Il ia's second Am una pole was received
Follow lug receipt of the Petitbld des
patch the Slate Dcpirtineut piobahly
will illicit Amli.issadoi .Mm neuihaii at
Constantinople in impinc of Tin key
whethir a Tiiiklsli Mihm.i: Inc s.mk i,r
Pctsla i'lni f.ir i In I lep.u inient has
tiothinj In il I i-t ,i 1 1 1 1 .i t tlie tcpoit
prilled this moi'ioiig from Aiusii-iilain
tliat Ttllkev is prepared in accept ie
,nlislbilll '
THE VERONA HERE ARMED.
tn the
.'t I ll ell
lll'iillll I lll'rle'
(liilcl. I'lri-r.
file iMl.an I'ln-l Veion.i, wlli.h us I ill-
i.urlis. passengei s. arrived yestinkiv
from Lallan ports w -th men liauilise on y
to lake li.ii l, to Italy munition. and !.i--seng.
i-s She is a slstei ship to Hie
An, im. I. tiitpeil I In the Meilllei cane. in
Tin Vim una has niniiuled no her aflei
deck two It Inch Aunslrong quick tiring
, Kimi- and tlht-o Inspire I an inspector of
' Co! led or Maloiie's neutrality t-MU.nl to
, report the ai m.i iiictii to him.
As In Hie case of the steamship
liiiuscppe Vs-rdi, u is likely ih.n tpo
Vrona will teieive cleaiaiice papeis
after asMiarnces are received from the
Italian Ambassador at Washington that
her guns will be used for defensive pur
pose nnlv
vnslrln will llcmiril Xrnied Vler-
r tin ii I in ! us Wnrlili.
Wasiiinuton. J.,ii 21 All the le.all
of the arrival nt New York of the Italian
sleanieliip Veinna with iwn guns
iiioimteil at her stern it a- Matid lu
ll. gilt ti'i.H the Austin-Hungarian ilov
i-nnnciil would piohabl) inrm in Ho
Unlteil States t li.it any aimed ship
loiinleri'd In an Au'j"lui subiimum
would be iigai'iled ae a warship and lie
sunk without warning, n-gartlless nf vv'ii
might liapptn to be aboard. Il Has also
said thai .he Vienna t lot crnmcnl will
discuss ullh lb,. ili., Stales all I ie
questions involved In Ihe armlii-; of
( nit rctnuii snip of defensive purposes.
PRICE TWO CENTS.
.Mciisiuc Xnw in I lie House
!' I .mils mill Will l!c
I.'iisIkmI Tliroii'li.
ASOTmi MIMSTIJV
SmilKS A TIMr.MI'll
Win- (UTiui' Aliciiil.v Imh'111
i i i - Tiibiiiiiils tn Knfmvi'
Ad's I'ruvi.siniis
F n.TI IK II HOSTILITY
MY LA IK HI K XT KIT KM
Three .Mi nisi pin )Li. liVsitiii
(ii'iicml Opposition
Not Looked For.
,ie' ' thU Ir.irtr. In Tlir. M
IimhiN, Jan. 21. -Th nipul.-nry
military set vice lull pa-seil its i hi i I and
final leading In the Mouse of t'onimon
this afternoon by it vole of Sx.1 to .tt,
and wns advanced In-nlghi In ii lirst
reading In the House of Lords.
No delay Is expected In the upper
house and It Is believed that the hill
will have lis second and third teidlngs
there by Thurjolay and receive the roj.V
a.cnl and become a law by the llrst of
Febru.n y. Uaillanient will piobahlv h.
pinrogiieil Friday.
The voles on Hie three tcollug nf ths
bill hi i ' oniic'lis h ive Im en a. follows :
Kilt leading pl.t to In;.
Secniid rcollng. by as., ni. , t rr-n.
liltlon to tlnow mil the bill vv.ut lost,
Cll to :i!.)
Third leading .isn lo r..
Triumph for Ministry.
The passage In a little less, th in thleo
week of what Is tonldcied the most
radical dep.irtuio from the lltmllsh con
ceptlon of personal liberty since tin tlmi
i ni unver fiomwill has been a great
triumph for tin coalition Ministry, from
'Which It Is geliet. ly tsitl.eded PlC'iltc
I Aqullh and hi colleagues have eme ge.l
' much sliengtheiied.
Dollar Law in his spec, h wiinlmi:
up the di bain rem irked on the won
tlelflll ili.illgn since tile tilst leading
the bill, which, he said, was ,i con-
' ptomis.. hi tw ceii those who thought tin'
It went not far enougl I those wle,
'"lleVld it aent (no far.
Th.. i !... ....
- .no. -in a.-i-eiieo ,m .niiei ,,.
im-iit that
"pltal punishment shoiilil i,- .
b Indicted
for iclusil to obev a , ,
to the colors
Kotulilv ll'e
authoi Hie, p,
single man tp
tailnl to op,.,
.11 111..' bill I !!lHOli i -
I. Ill In Hi,. Mil, OS i
f n milii.i i s.-rv.c-
II. lllselt in I 'ie 1 1.. I
ii on.iig . mo, nK, Cx. . ptbiiis
of Mien I.i ".t.,.,., iniluM es ti,,,, ,
"""j ' ''-'I I" In Im t nt the w.ir
-SO Slipjlio t,.r. ,,. ., , . Mir, ,,,, ti,,,...
.line I,, ,,, olhel g reason
i e.X'luiIe.l fn,i Us piovlslnns
Im I;.
I llbliii'l spill ,,,, locsloo.
met was Icirndih i-d in in-
"lull., by I'r icr A-qiiith anil .siliillli led
thl'"c;;h the t.iru.us stages liy Seeret.ii .
for Hi.. Colon os A. Hon.,,- .,, .
alter Hume I. ng, President ol ihe
Local lion r-ment Una id It ...is c, us, o
Hie icsigii n: -n trnin Hie Cabinet of Sr
.l"hn San, ,ii. the Hum,, .-...-tet.m, w i ,
Arthui Ileiidei-on. I.il'-r ineinlMr aii'l
I'lisi'b of till 11.1.11'd ui IMui-.ii k.ii
feted pis r-slgli.-itlon. I,n- ,t w.i'i..t
a. ci pt. il
At Hie rst I. ,., the I. , ,,,
p.,e, by i. i. i x t y uieinbeis t.f the h,s
N.HionaliU party, lint nt n,,.,-,. , fj,,,
H I uutli Ipated In . , , j,-, ,.s ,,
at lln labor i , inference wine i npi o, ,L
Crist, I .it Wedliisda- a lesolui.on w II
". pu-sed 'l.l.stde to the bill Wiielln- .is
It leslilt ,,e (II-,.,. ,,'. Mllllslcis l-
Hiur Henderson, Parhamei,irv Under
M'Clet.llJ for the , lllllc.- Hill.,,,,,
P.race. and l,,.d I'hanil.erlalii ,.r t e
Tn-asiiiy Uisiig,, . It,,!,,,!,, .U ,,
sign, ., in. tins n be .tcti
t is 0"t ex ted ihat th,. , ,i,,,, s ,ull
I' hn.tll. to th. bill .s , ,,, sp, il ,1-1 ,-
trouble i.,-, ,.,i ,..,(,, i lP ,,.,
ol intor, emeiit. Til. War 1 1,.0 , ,
ready funning the 1 1 ' biinats, , p,i-,
!" - "".u ,i III, l in-. ..
II. ItUlc I.
iircl
ARMY TO MATCH l-'UWT.
Limit l.eurm.
". t:
iu hi ml
Will
I liriitt I'iiII
VV elulil
I n I ii v a,-
ti nli ,
I.'ISI'OX. ,1,11, J I ,
g'V nit lli-d.iy ll.ivnl
l.'"t, li. ,,
Ihe Vllolstel nf M.oiiti
gave Hi,
I Ihe I
low lug v Ii w nf i i, i mam
ma 'is
"' ,l,thK M 'I'M I'.'l all ,,r .i .,
lialue there wete ij, . , ,M f ,
11" W.H l, Hi,, ,. , , n (
111" industrial, coniniercl.il ai ;, q.
Mini ileimaiiy ami In a mnsi n n,,,, i, ,i,-,
way sin- had ,eii,.-d the H ,. ,,. .
"Now that lieimany it,, rendering ,
gri al civic lo civilisation. i , ,, '
qileilng tin- world by Hi,. s,.,.,.SN , f ,. ,
no Minds and example Tb.,i , ,,,. -wi'iild
have piiiieil a on gi nqi,,,, ,,
Ing . Il would liave been ti, menus .if .,.
ing .mm' of lln ten Ible w asp tioouj,,, ,
most of ihe so. I.i I evils ,,f Intiii.miiv
spi e.iding Vs an anient s,,. i., nfom,,
I ficely nulls h.i 1... i r n 1 1 1 ig a g,i
deal lioin III. 1 1 side of I i,-i oiany , p.i,
ticulaiiy in Ihe dire, Hon of iniiiil. ,p(
and national nl gaiilatlnn,
"Hut till is my oilier n,i.i Side Ii.
side witli this ib rniany win. u we ad
mired was Hie mllllaiy ih-i nin
"These two i ii i many s , ,i,i ,H,
logethci- in l .i il. I and beneil, ,,t i(Xel
opulent This s liciiuam incini the
peimaneul ovcithiow of old l-.i 1 1, , i .
t ierinany, for in spite nf the fact Hi,i ,
employed weapon of sclenc. ;,,u , ,
line II wa-. Hill the less b I I'll. 1 1 oil '
.Mr. Lloyl lii'ilge Is cnlitlilonl f nt
outcome of Ihe wai tctliilitU-t of a tne.
i
