•v-j•
9
fiv
Subscribers
of The Daily Gato
City are served the full Leased
Wire Service of the United
Press Associations.
5'
mi VOL. 122. NO.' 21
[United Press Leased Wire Service.]
EL PASO, Texas, Jan. 25.—While
franciaco Villa was organizing a fly
ing regiment of cavalry today as the
nucleus of a new revolution, General
arranza at Quererato was endeavor
ing to set up an effective defacto gov
ernment
rhe
Field of Ice at Rock Island Made a Move Dur
ing Night and Then Piled up Below
I
5
the City.
I ineH WATER MARK CAUSED THE TROUBLE
task of bringing Mexico out of
anarchy, poverty and disease
*hich prevails In many sections, ac
cording to refugees, has heretofore
jfcen eclipsed by the necessity of sup
pressing malcontents and bandits,
j-arransa is 'now planning for the elec
tion of a congress and afterwards a
fTf'denL The capital will be re-es
w-Mlshed in Mexico City after one or
wth elections are held.
*'he most drastic step to allay the
"Hatty of ths Mexican people Is re-
Illinois River Reaches Its Record Mark and
Floods the Cellars of Buildings
.^"V in Peoria.
I rUntted Press Leased "Wire Service]
BOCK ISLAND, 111., Jan. 26.—The
Ice in the Mississippi at this point
ctsrted moving last night, owing to
the high stage of the water which
yesterday registered twelve feet.
After going out for some dlBtanco,
the ice gorged Delow the city and be
gan piling up. Near the Milwaukee
depot it piled up In heaps from twen
ty to thirty feet high near tlie shore
and for a time threatened that struc
ture.
Little flood damage is anticipated
here, but there Is danger to down riv
er points and to buildings along the
shores If the ice gorge gives away
|suddenly.
Dropping the Anchor.
BBARDSTOWN, 111., J*p- 26.—The
RUnoia river at this city is rising
tteadily and ttere Js-eveiT indication
that It will reach the highest flood
stage ever recorded here. At present
it is seventeen feet. It is expectd to
reach twenty-two feet.
I PEORIA POLICEMAN
SHOT TO, DEATH
Wan Hunt Follows Aa-asslnstlon and
One Suspect la Placed In
Custody.
[United pWtfs Leased Wire Service]
PEJORIA, 111., Jan. 25.—Mayor Wood
ruff and the entire day and night po
lice force for five hours early today,
engaged In a hunt for the highway
man that slew patrolman Norman
Gray late last night. Harry King, a
former convict, was arrested at day
light and the police say he is the
man who fired the bullet through
Gray's brain when the officer sought
to arrest King and a companion in a
saloon.
The shooting of Gray followed a
series of hold-ups In which one man.
Gas Sadlsk, was stabbed twice and
seiously wounded by the highwayman.
He is in a hospital and may not re
cover.
Society in a Flutter.
[United Press Leased Wire Service.]
DES MOINES, Iowa, Jan. 25.—
What promised to bQ a social riot wap
stopped here today when Secretary
Ralph Bolton of the Greater Des
Moines committee, received a tele
Brain from Secretary Tumulty saying
the president did not desire a dinner
In his honor by 150 prominent men
and another like affair by 75 society
leaders for Mrs. Wilson, upon their
arrival here February 1. Instead the
president and Mrs. Wilsan will dine
luletly before proceeding to the Coli­
iiV*'
Owners of boats and bath houses
are anchoring their property with
sand bags and iron.
Rising Slowly.
PEJORIA, 111., Jan. 25.—The Illinois
river was stationary or rising slowly
at 2S.1 feet today, equalling the reo
manufacturing establishments are
filled with water from seepage. The
Central Illinois Light company built a
wall of masonry over the lower win
dows of the river side of Its generat
ing plant to keep out the water. Fire
in the boiler room of the house of cor
rection was put out last night. Water
over its tracks caused the Peoria rail
way terminal company to suspend
service between this city and Pekln.
Hundreds of men are strengthening
a dike protecting reclaipTedlaad near
Bast Peoria. A rise of one foot ID the
river or a break in the dike would
flood territory In which forty families
are dwelling.
seum where the president will speak
on preparedness. Ever since the
Greater Des Moines committee an
nounced the two dinners, business has
been practically suspended while so
cial leaders and climbers struggled
for seats at the two dinners. What
promised to start feuds and heart
burnings was ended by the Tumulty
telegram. ...*
Cold Wave on the Way.
[United Press Leased Wire Service]
OMAHA. Nebr., Jan. 25—A cold
northwester from Montana sent the
mercury down to eight above zero
here thle morning. This Is thirty-nine
degrees colder than yesterday.
An unidentified man about thirty
five years old, was found frozen to
death early this morning. He was ly
ing face downward behind a fence
where he evidently had gone for shel
ter.
Well Known Printer Dead.
[United Press Leased Wire Service.]
CHICAGO, Jan. 25.—The body of
W. B. Prescott, former president of
the International Typographical
union, who died late yesterday at a
hospital here, will be taken to To
ronto, Canada, his former home for
burial, it was announced today.
Prescott, who was 52 years old, was
president of tne International union
1891 to 1898. In recent years he has
been associate editor of Tne Inland
Printer. A paralytic stroke caused
his death.
—Read The Dally
cents per week.
VILLA IS ORGANIZING
A NEW REVOLUTION
Raising an Army of Thugs to
Go Out and Stir Up Some
More Trouble.
Gate City. 10
ported from Chihuahua City where
the Carranzista governor in order to
avoid extortionate prices, has taken
direct charge of the sales of food
stuffs.
With the report that Villa was rais
ing a new army at the Hearst ranch
in Chihuahua, nothing was heard
from the Carranzista troops sent to
bring in the bandit chief, dead or
alive. Villa was said to be confis
cating horses and food supplies and
recruiting hundreds of peons for an
other drive against the defacto gov
ernment.
Cattlemen Ask Protection.
EL PASO, Texas, Jan. 26.—Vigor
ous resolutions calling on the United
States government for protection of
American lives mad property In Mex
ico will be presented at the conven
tion of the American Live Stock asso
ciation which opened here today. The
resolutions are now in the hands of
a sub-committee. The association in
tends to send a committee to Wash
ington to ask for protection of Amer
ican cattlemen in Mexico.
tr
AN!
[United Press Leased Wire S'
ATHENS, Jan. 25^-The Tur
perl a I yacht Erthoflroal, aboa
Field Marshal Von Dergoltz V' a pas
senger, was torpedoed by French
submarine in the Boaphorur weeks
ago. It was learned today frv.n travel
ers arriving from Constantinople. All
the passengers were rescued. Von
Dergoltz Is said to have been enroute
to Sagdad to take command of the
Turks In the Kut-EI-Amara region.
The Erthogroal Is a 900 ton yacht,
built In 1903 for the Turkish govern
ment and mounted eight small guns.
ENGLI8H BOTTLED UP.
BERLIN, (via Amsterdam) Jan. 25.
—Turkish troops east of Kut-EI
Amara have been reinforced by the
arrival of artillery and infantry from
Bagdad and have repulsed every at
tempt of the British to advance to
the relief of General Townshend's be
sieged garrison.
Constantinople reported today that
Townshend troops have ceased mak
ing sorties from the Kut-EI-Amara
forts, evidently lacking ammunition.
The Tigris floods have poured In upon
many wells In the region of Kut, mak
ing their water unfit for drinking pur
poses. Bagdad dispatches predict that
the British garrison will soon be
forced to surrender by exhaustion of
their water and food supply.
The Turks are conserving their
forces and making no Infantry as
saults upon the defenses of Kut. They
have contented themselves thus far
with shelling the outer forts and
strengthening their works east of the
town," from which direction General
t/i Allmer attempted to approach with
relief force.
The floods have not only prevented
from making effective attacks, but
have forced them to relinquish posi
tions they won more than a week ago.
RUSSIA
[United Press Leased Wire Service
PETrtOGRAD, Jan. «5.—Russian
troops, pressing down from the north
east, have approached to within three
miles of the city of Pinsk, according
to dispatches received here today.
The Germans are strengthening
their positions along the Oginski
canal, north of Pinsk, to meet the ex
pected Slav attack. The movement
against Pinsk Is an extension of the
offensive launched against the Aus
tro-Germans In the Kovel-Sarny rail
road region a few weeks ago.
[Pinsk was occupied by German
troops under Field Marshal Von
Mackensen in the Teutonic drive fol
lowing the capture of Warsaw. There
have been no previous reports of a
Russian advance on Pinsk.]
FIIKE
[United Press Leased Wire Service]
PARIS, Jan. 25.—German troops
the mouth of the Yser, the French war
office admitted tWs afternoon. It was
stated that the enemy was later driv
en out.
The renewal of the German attacks
followed a few nours after the bom
bardment in which more than 20,000
shells were hurled against the French
positions. The Germans were first
held to their trenches by a screen of
(Continued on page 2.)
Doods deserted a wife to go with
Mrs. Hood. The white woman used
i|S#*
1
KEOKUK, IOWA TUESDAY, JAN. 25, 1916
MANY AIR RAIDS NOW TAKING PLACE
Lcnlted Press Leased Wire Service.j
LONDON, Jan. 25.—France has
urged England to declare an Imme
diate blockade without waiting for
further protests from neutrals, it was
reported today, on the eve of tne for
mal discussion of the blockade pro
posals by the government In parlia
ment.
The pronouncement of French offi
cials nas greatly strengthened thp
position of Sir Lord Chas. Beresford
and other advocates of a stringent
blockade. They predicted today that
sentiment In their favor would be
displayed so strongly In the house of
commons tomorrow that the govern
ment will be forced to take imme
diate action. \.
The blockade advocates today claim
a large majority in commons In. sup
port of that policy. They professed
to have no definite Information of
what course the government has de
cided upon, but declared tnat a block
ading deoree should go hand in hand
with the' adoption of a conscription
measure to prove to Germany tbat
England Is in deadly earnest.
Reports that the Swedish parlia
ment has appointed a committee on
defense though given an ominous In
terpretation In some quarters, only
gave fresh encouragement to the
blockade supporters. They will argue
in parliament tomorrow when -the de
bate, opens that by decisive and lmme
diate action, the government can cut
oil objections from neutral sources.
In a letter in the Morning Post to
day, declaring for an immediate
blockade of Germany, Lord Beresford
also protests against the action of the*
British government in honoring pass
ports of German-Americans. The Post
prints a letter from another writer
declaring that Englishmen are not
well liked in the United States and
that Great Britain should not go out
of her way to conciliate America.
Tne Standard declared today that
the government will make Important
announcements regarding restrictions
on importations when the blockade
question comes up In commons.
CONTRA BAND" GbdD8~"*^
LONDON, Jan. 25.—Four hundred
revolvers consigned to a firm at Am
sterdam have been taken off the Hol
land-Lloyd liner Gelrla, bound from
South American ports, the foreign
office announced this afternoon. It
was announced at the same time that
fifteen cases of copper, brass and
aluminum filings have been taken off
the Swedish steamer (Jrna, from New
York to Scandinavian ports. The fil
ings were falsely manifested, the
foreign office stated, and were confis
cated because it was suspected they
were«destined for enemy agents.
FREQUENT AIR RAIDS.
LONDON, Jan. 25.—Four German
raids on English channel ports In
forty-eight hours and the bombing of
numerous villages behind the French
lines, marks the Inauguration of a
new Teuton campaign from the air.
An official statement from the ad
miralty today reported a raid by two
German aeroplanes on the French
seaport of Dunkirk at six o'clock this
morning. The admiralty added that a
German aeroplane, possibly one of
those engaged in the Dunkirk attack,
was shot down by a British aviator
at 8 o'clock at Neuport, eighteen miles
penetrated advanced French trenches bombing expeditions to English coast held by the invaders according to dis
In their new offensive movement near towns and an attempted attack on
Dover yesterday afternoon in which
the German was driven off by Brit
ish airmen.
The type of machine used by the
Teutons In these latest attacks from
the sky has not been reported in
official statements issued either in
London or Berlin. London writers on
aeronautics believe the Germans have
equipped their new fokkers to carry
(Continued on page 2.)
Woman Who Was Color Blind
Says Elopement Was Mutual
tUnited Press Leased Wire Service.] |Over to the police by a trick. After!The negro said he was strangely
SALT LAKE CITY, Utah, Jan. 26.—!she and Dodds had registered at dif
Trapped here after eloping with her jferent hotels on their arival Sunday
husband's negro porter, Mrs. Viola night, Dodds saw a newspaper ac
Hood was sullenly defiant in jail to- count of their elopement and gave
day. Before Hood left the coast for .himself up to the police to deny the
Salt Lake City he said he would never story that Mrs. Hood was forced to ac
forgive his wife if she was guilty of company him. The negro begged the
taking a leading part in the elope-jpolice to find his white paramour,
ment* I tearing she would kill herself and he
Mrs. Hood confessed to nearly a would- be charged with murder. The
year's intimacy with the mulatto, Wil-ipe'ice told a negro chauffeur to keep
liam Dodds, during which time he said a look-out for Mrs. Hood, and when she
she threatened suicide every time he I accidentally engaged him to take her
tried to break her spell. As porter in to an address, the negro drove her to
her husband's hotel, their relations
were not suspected by Hood.
police headquarters.
"I am glad it is over," Mrs. Hood
said. Further than to confirm Dodds'
voluminous story, she would not say
her husband'B money to lAiy the tickets jmuch.
from San Diego to Los Angeles and "I have had too much publicity out
then to Salt Lake City, intending to'of this thing already," Mrs. Hood stat
Tnarry Dodds here finder assumed ed. She is a large, well formed wom
names and live together in Chicago. an. She said she left her hUBband be-
Another negro turned Mrs. Hood I cause she was infatuated with Dodds.
,r
[United Press Leased Wire Service.]
SALONIKA, Jan. 25^-More than 100
bombs were dropped by the forty-five
aviators who raided Monastir and oth
dt- southern Serbia cities with Import
ant re«ults yesterday, It was learned
today. It was the greatest air raid
ever executed In the Balkans.
Enroute from Monastir, the raiders
split Into two parties, one bombard
ing Ghevgell and the other Kavadar.'
Though vigorously shelled, not a single
aeroplane was hit.
RETREAT SOUTHWARD.
ROME, Jan. 25.—Their immediate
escape to the Adriatic out off by the
capture of 8cutarl, Montenegrin and
Serbian troops are attempting to re
treat southward upon Durazzo, accord
ing to advices received here today.
ANOTHER.AIR RAID.
SALONIKA, Jan. 25—Sixteen French
aeroplanes again bombarded Ghev
ghell yesterday, killing and wounding
more than 100 persons and causing
heavy damage to Bulgarian camp*.
LEFT UNDER PRESoURE.
BERLIN, Jan. 25.—Reports that
King Nicholas and the Montenegrin
government withdrew their request
for peace were again denied in dis
patches to the Berlin newspapers. It
was stated that King Nicholas left
for France, under pressure of the al
lies, especiall" of the Italian king, be
cause of the effect Montenegro's sur
render had had upon the peoples of
these countries.
"King Nicholas' travels and utter
ances are now of less importance
than the fact that all Montenegro Is
now occupied by Austro-Hungarlan
troops, who nowhere have found re
sistance on the part of the popula
tion," a dispatch said.
"The only rioting occurred at Pod
goritza between the Albanians and
Montenegrins, who fought In the
streets until Austrian troops called
by the inhabitants, arrived and put
an end to the disturbances. The
main Montenegrin argiy th^t occupied
the line of Niks! Danllovgrad-Podgo
rltza-Scutarl Is In Austrian hands."
LJnited Press Leased Wire Service.]
LONDON, Jan. 25.—Though no con
firmation has been received from
Austrian sources of rumors that Em
peror Franz Josef Is seriously ill,
Paris and London papers today print
ed reported that his condition is seri
ous. Ah these reports emanated from
home.
The Home correspondent of the
Dally News reported that the em
peror is suffering from acute bron
chitis and that apprehension is felt
because of his advanced age. The
Daily Telegraph's Rorrje correspon
dent said Vatican circles had received
word that Franz Josef's condition was
very grave.
from Dunkirk, and a short distance ISayvllle.) The main Montenegrin
from the German lines. army has surrendered to the Austrians
The Dunkirk raid follows two'and the whole of Montenegro is now
MONTENEGRO SURRENDERS.
BERLIN, Jan. 25. (Via wireless to
1
patches received here today.
Loss of 6,000.
[Jnited Press Leased Wire Service.]
BERLIN, (via wireless to oayville,/
Jan. 25.—British troops have tost
more than 6.000 in killed and wound
ed and have been repulsed in at
tempts to relieve the garrison sur
rounded by the Turks at Kut-El
Aamara, according to an official state
ment from the Turkish war office to
day.
newspaper stories, tipped the police
ijv. ...ay, been kttd to »r,» «id
ffiPO the T1111
h',rmS
Hood said I wanted to go with him.
United States Steel Corporation Directors Keep
Wall Street in a Frenzy by Hold
ing Back Announcement.
Books have been made and thqu
sands of dollars bet on whether the
steel directors will declare the regu
lar quarterly dividend or pass It.
The answer to a question that has
kept the market stirred up for the
past week will come this afternoon,
probably Immediately after the cloBe
of the stock exchange. Experts de
clare the action finally taken will
have the utmost financial, commer
cial, industrial and political signifi
cance.
The ljaaty and unexpected return
from the soiith of Directors J. P. Mor
gan and Henry C. Frick last night
was looked upon by Wall street
authorities as final proof of the im
portance of today's meeting.
Steel common, to the tune of Rum
or's disquieting orchestration danced
a jig all over the stock market all day
Monday. A flood of selling orders
hammered common down to 82% at 2
p. m., and then'rumors of the Frick
Morgan return rallied it and it went
up, then bask to 83% at the close.
Steel common sold at 84%, an over
night gain of 1& soon after the stock
exchange opened today. Two /thou
sand shares were sold at the open
ing at prices ranging from 84 to
84%. A financier in close touch with
the situation, today outlined the
status and significance of the mat
ter:
"It is common knowledge in Wall
street that tnere is sharp division be
tween directors as to the advisability
of declaring a dividend today on steel
common. Morgan and Frick are be
lieved to be strong exponents of de
claring a five percent dividend on the
common stock today. Judge Gary may
Protest to England is Almost
Ready to be Sent by the
United States.
lut)ong of
to the couple's presence in Salt Lake department today approached final set.! llf/Jt
City. The police were seeking them |tleraent in the Lusitania incident with
when Dodds gave himself up. Germany. New and modified overtures ?°dav wl%re
"I never threatened to kill her and
come from
the
Dodds. many will delete several objectionable I
|f6atUre9
man
lf they will let him go on to Chicago, pledge for future conduct of submarine
U'll go back to ban Diego willingly and
war
fare as an implied disavowal of the
noHnnln'M elwlz-iniT
face the music." I Lusitania's sinking.
When told her husband was coming. I The administration also took steps
Mrs. Hood seemed unconcerned. Hood today to secure from Turkey any In
wlll not be permitted to see Dodds for'formation regarding the'sinking of the
fear of violence. jBrltlsh liner Persia. It Turkey dis­
W
THE WEATHER
Snow. Much colder. Local
temp— 7 p. m. 48 7 a, m. 50*
EIGHT PAGES
NOT ALLOW THE DIVIDEND
War has Greatly Increased the Income and not
Democratic Administration Which
Seeks the Credit.
[United PresB Leased Wire Service.]
NEW YORK, Jan. 25.—Wall street
expected one of the most feverish ses
sions of the stock exchange in months
today as brokers and the public specu
lated and guessed on the action to be
taken by the United States Steel cor
poration on its common dividend.
or may not be opposing them, but
they have opponents and no on4
knows exactly what Judge Gary Is
thinking these days.
"There is $508,000,000 worth
steel common. Normally that stock
pays a dividend of 1% percent quar
terly. Everybody In Wall street knows
that war orders and other business
has boomed the steel business until
the common stock is earning every bit
of 26 percent per annum. Yet ths
last quarterly dividend was not de
clared. It is common knowledge in
Wall street tnat this dividend was
withheld, not because the stock was
not earning enough to pay It, but for
another reason. There Is a faction in
the directorate strongly Opposed to
the Wilson administration. Another
faction feels that the corporation has
prospered legitimately under the pres
ent administration and is disposed to
let weii enough alone.
One faction strongly favors a divi
dend today regardless of any boost
that the dividend may prove to the
democratic administration. The other
faction in the directorate Is opposing
the dividend on the ground that the
i-resent prosperity of the corporation
Is due solely to war conditions and
that the dividend will not be analyzed
properly by the man in the street
who would see in it only an Irrefut
able evidence of tremendous national
prosperity.
uere is no doubt but that a con
siderable faction of the directorate
are strongly averse to playing poli
tics with the steel common situation.
They feel that such a course regard
less of which political faction it
favored, would in the end cause more
trouble than would be justified by
the results. This safe and sane fac
tion favors proceeding on a strictly
business basis, relying upon the gen
eral intelligence of the public to ap
preciate what percent of prosperity
of the corporation is a normal growth
(Continued on page 3.)
DIPLOMATIC PROBLEMS
ARE PILING UP RAPIDLY
|claims responsibility, the Persia lnci
I dent will be closed. If Turkey should
(admit the responsibility, the whole
question of disavowal, reparation, pun
jishment of tlie submarine commander
and subscription by Turkey to the
I policy of legal undersea warfare will
be taken up.
liar
on Zwledinok, Austrian charge,
was preparing today to protest to the
state department against the carrying
of guns on the Italian liner Verna,
which arrived in New York. That mer-
United Press I-eased Wire Service.]
WASHINGTON, Jan. 25. Diplo
matic problems between Europe's war
ring powers and the United States,
multiplied today. The administration! chant ships carrying guns ostensibly
has practically drafted a protest to for defensive purposes are not entitled
England opposing. British restrictions to treatment as "unarmed" vessels, is
upon American commerce in its act. the Austrian contention.
rprohibiting trading with the enemy."! Latest German ixdte.
The representations will go forward I WASHING-TON, Jan. 25.—The lat
to Ambassador Page within a few days,
eg
'England will be told In vigorous and cidont. reached the white house today,
unequivocal terms that this govern-
On the train coming here the couple jjer own corporations and citizens, mands," was pure supposition and un
had separate berths. Dodds said he but will hold illegal any Interference justified by the facts."
spent most of the time in the day
with
trade of American firms or cor-,
coach and smoking room. The con-1 porations in which German citizens or U"«at!«f®et®Cy
ductor of the train, having read the
nioney
mav have interest. As a con-,
trast to
rl£
(jerman note on the Lusitania in.
having been
ment will not recognize as legal the ent bv Ambassador Bernstorff and
ttritish law disturbing commercial re- transmitted by the state department
American firms or corpora- to the president.
drawn to Mrs. Hood from the first time tions which have Crerman interests. was officially stated that the an
lie saw her and that the attraction The administration will not question nouncement that the German note
seemed to be mutual. 'England's right to apply the law to meets all of the United States de-
Germany that would satisfy I ^howfne comolete concession
....... It .. „»a«r».ood th.t Oer.! =»S
/r°m reports. Ger^
probably will again point out ita
sent to the state depart­
Jan-
protests to England, the stale tv
hv
i._ ..
Jt wft3
-eyea,ed
delIvered to SeC
ln
_.
bv
d{ a
:'t'
•v
the Qot0 wa9
retary of State Lans-
Embassador Bernstorff Satur-
i,d*by Losing to President Wil-
_•
son yestorday. The latter today
placed It before his cabinet.
To the end that he may clear op
(Continued on page S.)
I
1:^
