wwwWW I
" ""WPw"W
FINANCIAL EDITION
NIGHT
EXTRA
icuemnit
NIGHT
EXTRA
sar S3$&iZXciP&P &&&' s
VOlfcH-K'O'114
GERMANY'S FINAL
IUSITANIA WORD
UNSATISFACTORY
'ublished Forecasts as to
'flnncessions to U. S. "Un-
r justified by the Facts"
$p U R E SUPPOSITION"
President Places BcrnstoriT
Jfoto iJeioro tjaDinut ut
WASHINGTON, Jan. 23.
;.. unsatisfactory, rather than snt-
r n' .,. ua heen given tlio I.usl-
S negotlktlons by Germany's latest
7. a Indicated at the Wilto llpuso
iotaft whero It was unlit printed roro-
".r." .l.mvlntr COmtllctO ConCCS3lol19 tO
'S. itnlteil States demands wcro "pure
ppwltlon and were unjustincd by thg
i'Ytww revealed Hint tho noto was dc
..., tn Secretary of Stato LntislnR by
limMisador Bcrnstorff Saturday, and
Wcretnry Lansing to President Wilson
i&eslerday. Tho latter today placed It
Heforo hla Cabinet.
i"' ' . t 1.f ). trtnt Klnnl lin (lift
TO me cim i mil. "v ". ,--" -;
situation as far ns possible bofoio ho
Waves on his "Western trip the Frosldent
t?111 conrcr at length with Socretnry Lnn--w
tomorrow- afternoon. Ho has chanced
Bkls tlmo of leaving for Now York from
" . .....,...... .. ...I,)..),,)., l.
tomorrow IlOUIl iu lumuiiu.v iiiiuii.niii. .1.
ir lo have this contorcneo. In tho
meantime It Is possible the Secretary may
, . .. ........ .. .... t ,..t t 1. mlinann-
tgn OVCr Hie inillli;! "Rum mi .,,,iu.i.-o..-
flflr ilCmSlOnii lllul'Kll umiuiinitHiiiH mm
sot been rondo of arrangements for such
' rnfttin.
1-. Information as to tho points In which
printed forecasts or tno noto are incor
,rt ils withheld. Tho most Importnnt
iMLltres of tho noto. according to tho
Kitorlcs, to which tho Stato Department
li said to owect, nre inosc iciung mnt
nrnmnv has refrained from mentioning
her warnings to United States citizens to
ttay off tho Lusltanlu and her modifica
tion of her refusal to concede wrong
dolns on tho part of tho submarine com-
jander.
Among tho points Gcrinnny sets forth
In this latest noto nro that tho torpedo
ing of tho Cunard llnor ws dlr. ted ns
an act of reprisal ngninst Great Britain
lor what sho considered tho unjust and
Illegal blockade of German ports. Now,
tho Berlin Foreign Olllco points out, Ger
sany has cliungcd her methods of re
prisal at tho behest of this Government,
repressed deepest sympathy and sorrow
it tho death or nunureus or Americans,
'and stands ready to pay amplo Indem
'bIUcj to tho families of thoso lost.
I It also Is pointed out that tho United
Elates' and Germany now nro working
toward a similar goal, namoly, freedom
"it tho seas, and such being tho case, tho
Jirlln Government frankly expresses Its
ifelro to close up tho matter onco and
ftfali:
I'That Germany's representatives in
Washington believe tho new note Is not
iUnsatlsfactory to the Government hero
ms ifanKly declared at tno cmoassy.
SLAIN CHORUS GIRL
mmu rhMmu r unrniriL
prs. Dunbar to Be Buried 10-
m morrow Ashbridge Barred
From Service
Ml When arrangements wcro being made
Kloday for the funeral of Mrs. Elizabeth
aMBunbnr. chorus girl of B cklorvlllc, rv. J.,
iho was shot and killed at Oth and
Sbiht. It was learned that sho had dls-
wuued the possibility of her own death
,wn menas less thnn a montn neo. no
,as attending nndther funeral in Cnmilen
it the time and sho then requested G.
B. Smltheman, who had chargo of thnt
raneral. that lin officiate when sho was
Juried.
RLa(er she told her relatives what sho
lad said to Mr. Smltheman mid they fol
lowed her request. As a result, ho will
iave charco of her funeral tomorrow
oornlner. Tha funeral will bo held from
Aohomo of her sister, Jlrs. Clarence Jfen-
tucr, Amuer street, unmuen. inn-r-nent
will bo In the unconsecrated eround
of Calvary Cemetery, on Marlton pike.
latto win bo no services.
- Numerous flnrnl rflnipmhrnnnes have
1 f teen received by the friends of tho dead
i ' 11 IT -!- ,, i-., !. 1 ..1.1
g Wilton Ashbrldee, 21 years old, of 1919
ILKoUh. Kd street, Camden, who killed the
IH send any flowers, thoy will bo thrown
Into tho street. Ho will not bo allowed
to attend tho funeral.
'According to Detective Stanley, Ash
trldge remarked today that ho wished his
father would get his black suit out of
.hock" as he expected to need it soon.
A'hbrldge Is being held without ball to
iwilt the action of the Grand Jury.
f THE WEATHER
Tho film of mist which hnngs over the
orta today and which Is neither rain nor
!llB must be peculiarly fitting to tho
J94 of those cltUens who learned with
Wr that the local optlonlsts had
tarte4 their camnnlirn manv months
-J!1 ot tlmo t0 drlvo them out of tho
jpilture. For It Is neither honestly
EJ or "dry" today, but very doubtful,
"rfw., way WU tne cat Jump "wet" or
fir ? Tho heavens refuse to prophesy.
R;i would be an Interesting thing to
ow Just how much effect the weather
on various hopes and projects, by the
v How many times do wo start out
r.w n ""'"res with a gallant heart
W because the sun Is shining and raises
f spirit beyond Its wonted level; and
F$w many times act tho coward Just be
J?Im skies are lowering and grim?
fnolers must be horribly conscious of
5 feather. U Is a pagan thing, like
W1'ng. Man Is greater than the
SKimer or any merely material stroke of
t he often forgets It.
L FORECAST
rtiw Philadelphia and vicinity
KuallV cloudy and unsettled to
WSi ?WLd Wednesday; slightly warm
mfloht; moderate southerly winds,
miot aetaUa see page 15,
PL T AND FOUND
lluuTifiATP ' S7T for ten (10) staarta or
tJJ.S?lt S'h Union Tj-uat Company, lo
SilH.'uC- W Keck having- been lost.
Vffi JJfS.,h be niade to th. Merchanw
!C&rr.iS".,-0.ni''anlf for the Uuunc of a
&551Ha.at8jniac thereof
IIJlJX-Bpoii 10,1 brown pocketbook. con
tS' iAJ'ubi oa Wednesday venlm, ba-
BjSiMwarJjiiMO Walnut t.
WjUii.t, cyU dog wbI, Whlti NHeturu 9SO
2lii2ji. phone I-opJar gjjS BawaxJ.
i( oua feuuU Ads oa JPe W
tK
GIANT GERMAN AEROPLANES
RAID PORT OF DUNKIRK
a m .. T-, 1 , u . i. LONDON, Jan. 25.
, ru.-poi? Dunk,rj 'jy.slnnt Gormnn aeroplanes was mado early
5? r" '"' . l was officially announced by tiic British Admiralty.
Coupled with the four raids made in the past 24 hours on Dover and
other English Channel towns, it reveals the inauguration of a new cam
paign from tho air.
The statement reported two German aeroplanes took part in the
raid on the French seaport of Dunkirk nt 0 o'clock this mornintr. Tho
t , nJf iii Hlnti a Gcrmnn ncroplnnc, possibly one of thoso cncap;ed
Li MiC..Dl"lkitro n?nc& w ? town by a British aviator at 8 o'clock
at Nieuport, 18 miles from Dunkirk and a short distance from the German
lines.
Tho Dunkirk raid follows two bombing expeditions to English const
4bWnrSoi!l(1 nn ntt?ml,tcd JHnck", Dover yesterday afternoon, in which
tho German was driven off by British airmen.
.J1.0 tvPc ,of machine "sod by the Teutons in these latest attacks
from tho sky has not been reported in official statements issued cither
in London or Berlin.
THE GREAT POWDER ROMANCE;
A TRUE STORY OF STRONG
, MEN AND THEIR MILLIONS
Stage Is Set at Wilmington for Dramatic Legal Strug
gle for Control of $240,000,000 Corporation.
History of Founding and Growth
MHMNMMMMMMHHMMiHHHMj l Ml HftM I W I .
Pierre S. du Pont, on tho left, the brains of the defense, which aims
to maintain control of E. I. du Pont de Nemours & Co., is opposed
by his cousin, Alfred I. du Pont, who has petitioned the United
States District Court for permission to become a party plnintifT in
tho suit to compel tho du Pont Securities Company, a holding: com
pany, to turn over stock valued at more than $50,000,000 to tho
powder company. A. I. du Pont is on the right.
The German Crown Prince has said that American powder alone is
prolonging the war. Each night a "powder train" leaves Carney's
Point, N. J., for Canada with thousands of pounds of this powder, while
7iot a ivcck jmsses without a Russian, Italia7i or IlritisLship weighs iinchor
in the Delaware River laden with tons of high explosives for tho Allies.
Thus, the war is prolonged.
A $21,0,000,000 corporation, the E. I. du Pont de Nemours & Co.,
is the largest concern in the world making powder. From the New Jersey,
Delaware and Virginia plants they have already made shipments valued
at hundreds of millions. Their profits have been immense. Now members
of the du Pont family figure in a $50,000,000 suit in the Federal courts
which will determine the future of the company. The history of the
powdermakers, the war orders, the du Pont family and the battle of
millions all will be told in this scries of notable articles.
By HENRY B. LOOS
Copyright, 1916.
ARTICLE I.
TUB stago Is set nt Wilmington for
what Is cxpoctod to bo ono of tho most
dramatic legal strugptles over witnessed
In tho development of high finance In
this country. Tho battle Involves virtual
control of E. I. du Pont do Nemours &
Co., tho $210,000,000 .corporation which Is
not only the largest explosive manufac
turing concern in tho world, but tho chief
factor In the exportation of tho powder
which has proved the salvation of tho
Allied armies of Europo In the present
war.
The litigation, which Is now pending
In the United States District Court In
Delaware, Is based on a suit In equity
brought by Philip F. du Pont, of Merlon,
Pa., to force tho du Pont Securities Com
pany, of Delaware, to turn over E. I.
du Pont do Nomours & Co. stock valued
at moro than 0,000,00 to tho latter cor
poration. Should tho suit be successful, the stock
In qucston will go Into tho trensury of
tho powder company nnd every outstand
ing share of common stock will bo en
hanced In value by nbout $200. In addi
tion to this, control of tho corporation
will go to the descendants of those mem
bers of tho du Pont family formerly In
power. . . ,
In tho event of the action being- un
successful, Plerro S. du Pont, president
and director of tne powner company, unu
11 other directors who are nlso tho chief
factors In the du Pont Securities Com
pany, will retain tho stock and with It
control of tho B. I. du Pont do Nemours
& Co.
Tho du Pont Securities Company was
organized early last year to obtain 63,311
shares of common and 11,599 shares of
preferred stock in the powder company
LABATTAGLIAREPRESA
DA T0LMIN0 AL MARE
Violenti Duelli di Artiglieria e
Continui Attacchi di Fanteria
sul Fronte dell'Isonzo
Dopo una sosta cho non doveva essere
d'altro cho dl preparazlone, la battaglla
Infurla di nuovo sul fronto dell'Isonzo.
OH austriac! e gli Italian! sono ancora
alia prese per II contrastato possesso della
llnea dl dlfesa austrlaca verso Trieste, e
nul a Roma si attendono anslosamento
notlzlo bu questo nuove operazlonl contro
la fortezza dl Gorlzla.
I telegramml che glungono dalla fronte
dlconi cne tra la fortezz dl Tolmlno ed
ii M. T Adrlatlco si hanno vlolentlsslml
d'uelll dl artSrtlerta e continui attacchi
m fanteria non' mono violent!. Una
.iiidrlLlla dl aeroplanl austrlacl tento'
Tbombardaro raccampamentlo Italian a
nord-est dl Gradlsca. na fu mesao In
fusa ea Uttaccato dall'artlgllerla speclalo
"lnotlzll deuanuova offenslva Italian
.ulfibonio vlena luMtoW Vennuncto
Se l'occupazlone dl Scutari da parte degll
austriac! dl Herat da parta della forzo
iLeiMro la to pagina l ultimo o plu'
dattaSlata note's tterra ta tal'
lano.i
from the then president of the corpora
tion, T. Coleman du Pont.
It Is alleged that rierro S. du Pont nnd
his associates secretly "put across" the
deal at a time when It was nrtvantarjeous
for tho powder company Itself to obtnln
this stock. This nnd other allegations In
tho bill of complaint, If founded on fact,
dlscloso ono of tho most sensational
transactions In tho history of American
finance.
To understand tho situation which has
nrlien In tho battlo of the du Pont fac
tions for control of E. I. du Pont de
Nemours & Co., It Is necessary to study
tho development of the concern, particu
larly that part following a chnngo of
management In 1902, when the Industry all
but passed from tho hands of tho family.
Tho business was first established by
Eleuthere Ireneo du Pont, who, with his
father, Plerro Samuel du Pont, was forced
to (lee France shortly after tho Republi
cans of that country triumphed In 1799.
Tho younger du Pont hnd lenined tho pro
cess of powder manufacture In the French
Government powder plant at Ensannc.
whero ho had been under tho direction of
Lavoisier, the foremost export hi the
manufacture of explosives of the ngc.
j n ibuo, uieutliero Ireneo du Pont pro
posed to President Thomas Jefferson the
building of a powder plant on the banks
of tho Brandywlno at Wilmington. The
offer was warmly received, and two years
lHter E. I. du Pont do Nemours & Co.
began Its historic career. Within 10 years
tho concern demonstrated Its value to the
United States when It supplied tho powder
which defeated tho English In the Battle
of New Orleans.
In 1831 Eleuthero Irenee du Pont died.
Ills son-in-law, Antolnno Illderniann, be
camo president, anil, together with Al-
Continued on I'uge Rli, Column Ono
THOMPSON BANK PROBE
MAY PROVE SENSATION
Officials of Closed Institution
Summoned Before Grand
Jury Tuesday
PlTTSnURQU, Pa., Jan. H.-Charges
of violation of the laws affecting: national
banks against one or more oulcers of ths
wrecked First National Bank, of Union
town, are forecast In the serving upon
officers of the institution of subpoenas
to appear before the federal Grand Jury
In Pittsburgh next Tuesday.
Since the First National Bank, of which
Joslah V, Thompson Is president, closed
its doors, Government agents, under or
ders from the Comptroller of Currency,
have been going over the books of the
Institution. While the result of this in
vestigation has not been announced, It
Is stated on good authority that Irreg
ularities of a surprising nature hava
been found,
When the First National closed Janu
ary 18. 1915, there was itw cash on hand
and $500,000 worth of notes. Of the latter
sum $005,264 are regarded as worthless.
Swedish Ship Hit by Storm
STORNOWAY. Scotland, Jan. 25. The
Swedish, ship Oracla, bound from Balti
more for Gothenburg, hm bsen badly
damaged by storm. Beveral vt her Ufa,
boats were smashed by tho. heavy seas.
'iTnit.vr " jUtaittiii"hA rri mi
PHILADELPHIA, TUESDAY, JANUAIIY 'J 5, 11)10.
BALKAN ALLIES
RETIRE SOUTH ON
DURAZZO BASE
Capture of Scutari Cuts Off
Serbs and Montenegrins
From Adriatic Escape
AVLONA FOE'S OBJECTIVE
Virtually All of Montenegro in
Invaders' Grip Bulgnrs
Strike nt Albania
BERLIN, Jnn. 15. The mnln Mon
tencgrin army lins surrendered to the
Austrinns, nnd the whole of Monte
negro is now held by the invndcrs, ac
cording to dispntchcH received here
today.
noun, Jan. 23.
Their Immrdtnto escape to the Adriatic
cut off by tho capture of Scutari. Mon
tenegrin and Scrblun troops nro attempt
ing to retreat soutliwnrd upon Dtirazro,
nccoidlng to advices received horc toriny.
The Montenegrins, by desperate rcsli
tnucc, held up tho Austrian ndvnnco
ncrosi I'odgorltza nnd Scutnrl for U
hours, but wcro forced to wlthdiaw by
tho arrival of enemy lelnforccmonts. Tho
Serb forces nre breaking up Into small
bands to facilitate their letrcat.
Tho Hulg.-irs nro on the offensive In Al
bania, with tho design of driving tho
Italian expeditionary force Into tho Adri
atic. Avlona Is tholr objective.
Virtually all of Montenegro Is now over
run by Austro-tlungnrlnn troops, and
four separate Invasions of Albania nro
under way.
Military men predict thnt In a fortnight
every Inch of Albanian soil, ns well as nil
of Montenegro nnd Serbia will bo In tho
hands of tho Uermnn allies.
Tho conquest of tho linlkans by tho
Teuton and Bulgarian forces has been so
successful that anxiety over tho future
policy of Rumania nnd Greece has been
reduced to n. minimum In licrmnny nnd
Austria-Hungary.
AntlvnrI and Dulclgno nre In Austrian
hands, giving tho Austro-llimgarlan
forces nbsoluto control of nil of Monte
negro's territory on the Adilntlr litlornl.
Tho seizure of the Adt little coast has
been a hitter blow lo Italy, nnd there is
good ground for believing that the lela
tlons between Home and the allied capi
tals are not so cordial ns they vero six
weeks ago.
Bribe Taker Released on Parole
COMSTOCIC, N. Y., Jnn. 2r,. Joseph
Cassldy, former Democratic boss of
Queens County who wn sentenced to not
loss. than n year nor more than IS months
for receiving a bribe, was paroled today
by the State Parole Hoard. Cassldy hod
Just completed a year of his sentence.
Cassldy and former Congressman William
Wlllott were both convicted nt the samo
time, Wlllctt of giving a bribe and Cas
sldy for reccMng It for a 1911 Demo
cratic nomination to n Queens County
Supreme Court Judgeship.
Grip Victim Hangs Himself
LANCASTER, Pa.. Jan. 23. Despondent
becnuso Illness from the Klip prevented
him working, William Miller, of Lan
caster, committed suicide by hanging
himself In the attic of his home. Tho
body was found by his son, William
ailllcr.
'MARRIED' PHONES SON
TO 'COP'; WENT TO BUY
TURKEY, GOT THICKEN'
Romance of 20-Year-Old Youth
and 17-Year-Old Lass Begins
on Thanksgiving Day.
Wed in Camden
HE'S "GONE AND DONE IT"
Iteserve Policeman Andrew Maneely
stood at tho door of the Central Follce
Station this morning, sifting tho under
world characters who wont to get front
seats at the hearings, when ho was called
to the telephone.
"That you, pop?"
Reserve Policeman Maneely assured the
person at tho other end of tho wire It
was he.
"This Is nill"-Blll being the 20-year-old
son of the bluecoat.
"Pop, Where's u Good place to buy
furnlturo7"
"Whnddyuh want to buy furniture for.
Isn't the furniture In our house good
enough for you?"
"Yes, but I want to furnish a home.
"Oh. you do, do you," rejoined the
fattier to the son. "Doesn't the house at
2102 East Clearfield street satisfy you?"
"Well, I tell you, dad, It was something
I tarted to tell you at tho breakfast table
thi morninir. but I really didn't know
how to start it. I Just wanted to tell you
I was married last Thursday In Camden."
Tho receiver almost dropped from the
hand of Patrolman Andrew Maneely.
Having been a member of the force for
nigh on to tho pension limit, he controlled
himself.
Finally ho managed to query weakly:
"What? You married?"
Then:
"Who Is she? What Is her name? How
did you meet her? Is she good Iqoklng?"
"Just a minute, dad," said son Bill.
"Here's the whole story. Her name Is
Mamie Yahn. Sho lives at 1529 Orkney
street. She's a peacA ot u good looker.
Only 17 years old."
His father broke in with, "Well, It's
a wonder you wouldn't bring her around
to the house."
"Dad," Bill continued, "I happened to
meet her this way. Last Thanksgiving
the boys gave me a turkey, and I was
bringing It home, as you know, when I
passed the place where my wife worked.
Sho was Just coming out. 'Oh!' she said,
look at the turkey.' And I looked at lior
standing there, with the sun shining down
on her pretty face, and I couldn't help
It when I said, 'Oh! look at the chicken,!'
Then I went around to her house the next
day and had some ot her turkey,
Help us pick out tha furniture, dad?"
"Sure will." said Maneely as ho hung
up the receiver and sat down In a ohatr.
'What's the matter, Andyl" asked one
of the court attaches. Maneely took a
deep breath and got up. A broad smile
Illuminated bis face.
"The boy has, gone and done it." ho
Bald,
1
dj iimiiwi mjhi)
NEW LAW RUNS
SMOOTHLY; PAY
FIRST CLAIMS
Compensation Legislation
Pleases Employes and
Workers Alike
INFORMATION PILING UP
Data Soon Will Enable Insur
ance Companies to Stand
ardize Rates
Insurance men whoso specialty Is cas
ualty work said today that In tho brief
period tho workmen's compensation act
had been In force In Pennsylvania 2."
days tlni pnnieiit of the Hist clulms linn
proceeded smoothly and tn tho sntlsfnc
tlo l of both employers and employes,
and that u great muss of Information was
beginning to pile up that would help to
standardize tho business In this lending,
Industrial Stnte.
As nn example of the prompt workings
of the now system, II was pointed out nt
the olllocs of the Tiuvcltrs" Insurance
Company tint pnmenl In compensation
for 20 fotiilltlrs bad already begun, at tho
rato of nenrly one a day, since tlie law
went Into erfect January I. There hnd
been In that lime between 50 and CO cases
of nceldents not fatal reported.
About 10 of tho fatalities wcro In tho
cases of employe of contractors In rail
road nnd brlilgo wink, nnd the like, and
most of the otbets were employes In fac
tories. One widow, with two chltdien,
whoso husband received $2.'i a week and
was recently killed nt bis work, now
gets from the company, which had in
sured tho eniplojers against liability
claims, S12.G0 ench week, or Ml per cent, of
her husbund's wages. If sho had no chil
dren, sho would get 40 per tent.: ono
child, 15 per cent.; three children, " per
cent., nnd CO per cent, for four or moro
children.
Whllo stnllstlcs concerning the risks In
volved enn be devised with comparative
ease by Insuranco companies with regard
to such factors as those, through tho re
port of Industrial accidents In tho past,
thero aro other fuctors which piesont dif
ficult problems of leadjustment of rates.
For oxample, standards of sanitation and
precaution vary gi cutty among employ
ers, who nro, of course, unwilling to ad
mit that In nny detail their cfllcicncy In
reducing risks of nceldents to a reason
able minimum Is nt fault.
Then, again, under tho old system con
tributory negligence played a large part
In cutting down tho claims paid, and,
therefore, tho rates paid to the Insur
anco companies ns well, but now that
that fnetor Is eliminated there exists the
new factor of a "premium placed on neg
llRuncc," slnco the employers, or their
leprescntatlvcs, tho Insuranco companies,
are now llablo for damages without con
sideration of tho employe's conduct In
tuklng enro of himself. Just how fre
quently omployes will allow their health
to bo Impalrod or even Invito .mall acci
dents, knowing that these, will be com
pensated and pormlt them to live with
out working, Is a human pioblcm that
defies solution.
Tho Insuranco rates now In forco nre
tentative. Tho companies nro placed in
somewhat of n quandary as to whether
tho schedules of the rato boa id aio to be
taken as making these lates on a min
imum basis or on nn average basis; if
average, then the various reductions can
bo mado with a far greater degrco of
Justlco to all concerned, It Is hnld. But
if tho minimum basis Is adhered to, as
Continued on l'nge l'mir. Column Two
MOTHER-IN-LAW MAKES
CHARGE AGAINST MAN
WHO HAD TWO WIVES
Ohio Farmer, Who Maintains
That They "Lived Happily"
With Him, in Jail on
Her Complaint
ACCUSED OF BIGAMY
The complaint of n Philadelphia woman
has broken up tho remarkable household
of an Ohio farmer, who had two wives,
living, he asserts, In harmony with him
self and each other. Tho mother of one
of tho women objected to tho unlawful
nnd Immoral nriangement, uml, ns a re
sult, tho farmer, Jesse I'arcwell, Is In
tho Akron (O.) Jail on a chargo of bigamy.
William Ahey, of CC31 Musgrave street,
Oermantown, who announces that she
will do everything In her power to sco
that her daughter's husband Is punished
as a bigamist; and notwithstanding the
fact that both wives appealed to live
harmoniously under the samo roof.
Farewell was arrested at his farm In
Sprlngdeld county, outside Akron, nud
arraigned yesterday In the probate court
op tho charge of bigamy. Ills most In
dustrious assertion In defence of tho
double marriage Is that both his wives
were satistled with the arrangement ana
that they "all got along great together."
Mrs. Abey's daughter Is wlfa No. J. Sho
was Miss Fannie Slater Abcy until six
years ago, when she and Farewell were
married in this city at her homo, In the
presence of 60 guests. Sho hns three chil
dren. WIfo No. 2 was Miss Irene Ben
nett, who was married to Farewell In
Canada last November.
Mrs. Simon Abey, grandmother of wlfo
No. 1, who lives at tho Musgrave street
address, has explained that the girl's
mother thought everything waa going
well with the Farewells until tho daugh
ter visited here last September.
Mrs. Abey, the girl's mother, left a
week ago for Akron. She went Immedi
ately to tho Farowell farm and thero
found her daughter and wife No. 2 and
Farewell, seemingly In harmonious ac
cord. Undaunted, Bho set out to see Mrs.
Curtis IJennet, mother of wlfo No. 2, and
explained things to her. The two mothers
then persuaded their daughters to leave
Farewell, and as soon as that was ac
complished they swore out a warrant
for him.
Farewell, In Jail, continually atserts,
"We were getting along great until Mrs.
Abey butted In."
Samuel S. Chamberlain Dead
SAN FRANCISCO, Cal., Jan. 25. Sam
uel S. Chamberlain, one of the best
known newspaper men 'in tha country
and connected with the Boston Ameri
can, died here today.
Heart disease was the, cause of death.
Mr. Chamberlain was born la Walworth,
U. Y., September 15, 1851,
ill m Jfr H miiArtMtti
.m
CofTBioiti, 1010, bi inn rcstto LMXJEB COMrANI.
U-BOAT SINKS NORSEMAN,
10,750-TON BRITISH LINER
LONDON, Jan. US. The Dominion liner Norseman hns becu
nun!; by n submarine, according to a Liverpool dlspntch to the iJs
t unlike Tclcgtapli. Tho Nor&cmnn Is a 10,70fMon steel scicw Bteam
fillip, owned by the British nnd North Atlantic Steamship Company,
of Liverpool, and flies the British flog.
U. S. STEEL CORPORATION
DECLARES 1 M l C. DIVIDEND
NEW VOBK, Jan. SU.-Tho United States Steel Corporation an
nounced a dividend of 1 l-l per cent, on the common stock tlii
.-tltciution.
FRENCH AIRMEN AGAIN RAID GIEVGELI; KILL 100
PARIS, Jan. L'G. Ono hundred Uulgnrlans nro reported to have been Itlllod
and wounded In another nttnok upon Olevgell by n squtulron of 1G French
aeroplanes, neon-ding to a Ifuvas News Agency dispatch from Salonlca today.
AHMED ITALIAN LINER MAY RE HELD IN NEW YORK
WASHINGTON, Jan. 25. Government olllclals refused to give nny intima
tion today ns to whether tho Italian steamship Verona will ho nllowed to
sail from Now York next Saturday with two guns mounted at her storn. Tho
lepnrt nf the Collector of Customs at New York, dealing with tho armed
vessel, hnd not reached tho Trensury Department this nftcrnoon. It was said
that ns siuin ns It arrives tho enso will bo referred to tho Stato Department, aa
was the Oluseppo Verdi incident.
MAYOR URGES ASSISTANCE FOR JEWS
Mayor Smith today Issued a proclamation In which he joined with Gover
nor Brumbaugh in recommending; Thursday, January 27, as a clny for Plilla
dclphlnns to meet tho appeal that Is being made for churlty on behalf of
9,000,000 Hebrews living In wnr-devastntcd districts In Europe.
COMMISSIONER RYAN
Michael .1. Ityan, newly appointed
oath of office today, nnd will nsstimo
MANDAMUS PAYMENTS TOTAL $303,.I67.46
Mandamus payments during the last two days total $303,107.46, according to
the books of City Treasurer McConoh. Payments mado today on 30 writs
aggregated $137,010.17. The writs wcro cashed at their face value by a trust
company, which will rocnlvo the benefit of the interest allowed under tho law.
GERARD ARRANGES BERLIN CONFERENCE FOR HOUSE
HEItl.IN, Jan. 23. Jiunos W. Gerard, tho United States Ambassador to
Germany, was in communication, with tho Foreign Olllco today. It Is be
lieved that he was arranging a conforenca between" Colonel E. M. Ifduso,
tho special envoy of President Wilson, and either Doctor von Jngow, tho
Foreign .Minister., or Doctor Zimmerman, tho Under Foreign Secretary, Two
Secretaries from the United States Embassy went to Geneva to accompany
Colonel House to Berlin. The party left Geneva for Beilln last night.
FRENCH CHIEFS REVIEW BATTLE LINE
PARIS, .Tnn. IT,. President Polncare, Taut DeschnncI, President of the
Chamber of Deputies, and M. Dubost, president of tho Senate, have Just con
eluded a review of the I'reneh armies holding the eastern end of tho battlo lino
They returned to Paris today.
While In Alsaco tho French officials visited n, number of towns and villages!
held by tho French tioops nnd were everywhere warmly greeted by th,
populace.
SULTAN'S YACHT TORPEDOED; VON DER GOLTZ ABOARD
ATHHNS, Jan. 25. The Turkish Imporlal yacht Krthogronl, aboard wjnich
Field Marshal von Der Goltz was a passongor, was torpedoed by a FrenchTsub
mnrino In tho Bosphorus, It was learned today from travelers arrlvlngfroni.
Constantinople. All tho passongers wero rescued. Von der Goltz is said ta
have been en route to Bagdad to tnko command of tho Turks In tho Kt-ol-Amnra
region.
(Tho Krthogroal Is a 000-ton yacht built in 1003 for tho Turkish Govern
ment and mounting eight small guns.)
'-
GERMANS CAPTURE FRENCH GUNS IN ARTOIS "
BERLIN, Jan. 25. 7TI10 Germans aro keeping up tholr offensive In Artols.
Tho German War Olllco, In nn official statement today, reported tho capture of
three machlno guns nnd 100 prisoners near Neuvlllo St. Vaast, Just north of
Arras. French counter-attacks wero repulsed.
SERB WHO PLOTTED AGAINST ARCHDUKE DIES
VIENNA, Jan. 25. Tho Serbian anarchist, Nedyeliko Gnbrtnovlc, who waa.
sentenced to 25 years for complicity In the assassination of Arhduko Francis
Ferdinand, heir to tho Austrian throne, has just died In prison. Gabrlnovlo
throw a bomb which injured several persons In nn automobile behind that In
which the Archduke, was hilled. Tho assassination of Arcluluko Francis
Ferdinand on June 28, 1914, precipitated the European war.
WOOD INDICTED ON CHARGE OF SOLICITING BRIBE
NEW YORK, Jan. 25. Robert C. Wood, formerly a member of the Publio
Service Commission, was Indicted today by the Grand Jury on tho charge of
soliciting a bribe. Tho indictment, which was handed up to Judgo Mulqueen
In tho Court of General Sessions, is based upon testimony that Wood accepted
money from a company manufacturing railway signals. '
WOMEN FARMERS IN BRITAIN, NECESSITY OF WAR
LONDON, Jnn. 25. Great Britain must have women farmers, if the country
Is to survlvo the war. That is tho dictum just Issued by Lord Shelbourne, presi
dent of tho Government Hoard of Agriculture. A plan Is now under considera
tion to canvass the rural districts of England, Scotland and Wales and register
women farm laborers. Just ns male workers were listed under the registration
act. The Board of Agriculture takes tho view that the increased demands of
munitions plants and the conscription bill will drnln the farming districts of
most" of the available men, and unless their places are taken by women tho
United Kingdom will suffor a serious food shortage
ITALIANS DRIVE OFF AUSTRIAN AIR RAIDERS
HOME, Jan. 25. Following a lull on tho Isonzo front, fighting between tha
Italians and Austrlans has again developed on an important scale, From Tol
mlno to Monfalcono thero aro violent artillery duels and Infantry attacks,
Austrian ueroplanes that tried to bombard tho Italian camp northeast of Gra
dlsca wcro driven off by Italian high-angle guns.
TWELVE HURT IN CRASH ON ERIE
MIDDLETOWN, N. V Jan. 25. Twelve persons were Injured, none fatally,
when a frolght train crashed Into the rear end of tho eastbouruKErJe express
No. 8 at Fort Jervls early today. The express, carrying "Western passengers
bound for New York, was duo there at 7:32 a. m. It was wreaked' at '$ a. m,
when the freight bore down from behind and crashed Into the rear car.
JAPANESE SEARCH AMERICAN SHIP
LONDON, Jan. 25. Captain nice, commanding the American ship Mongolia,
has just arrived at Tilbury, after a 17 months' voyage. He told how the Japanese,
had searched his vessel for contraband- "We were about 600 miles off tho For
mosa, coast." he said, "when two big Japanese cruisers held ua up." The Japanese,
declared there was (saltpetre aboard the Mongolia and searched the sbty thor
oughly, hut found no contraband,
UiwtMmiAMimtt
iWirlr
PHIOIfl ONE CENT
TAKES OATH OF OFFICE
Public Service Commissioner, took tho
his new duties nt once.
in7iltfnilM
1
III
HHHHMbMMIhHHHUH1Sj353BB
