Randolph One
Will Put You in Quick Touch
With The T-D Want Ad Man
Lost or Fo u n d
1-D Want Ads Will Help Von
Find 11?Randolph One
66th YEAR
VOLVMK AO
MDI1IBU 24
RICHMOND, VA., TUESDAY, JANUARY 25, 1916. ?TWELVE PAGES.
W KATIIKII
I'AliK 0
-FAIR
PRICE, 2 CENTS
FEDERAL INCOME
TAX UPHELD; NEW
17. S. Supreme Court Sweeps
Aside 10very Conten
tion Raised.
UNANIMOUS DECISION
BY HIGHEST TRIBUNAL
Opens Way for Increasing Rate
on Great Fortunes to Help
Pay for Defense.
PROrOSAl.R AliltlCADY I'ENDING
Cnn Tto Made to Yield Nenrly $200
000,000 u Yenr Inst end of
*00,000,000 as Now.
WASHINGTON, D. C.. January 24.?
The Income tax was declared constitu
tional to-day by the United States Su
preme Court In a unanimous decision,
which swept aside every contention
raised against It. ami, in the opinion
of congressional lenders. opened the
way for Increasing the tax rate on
groat fortunes to help pay for national
defense.
Proposals are pending in Congress to
tax incomes more than $l.000,0?0 as
high na f>0 p??r cnt. Leader? '>n ail
sides aprree that out of the impetus
?which the decision to-day will give
such proposals !s likely to come a
definite niovemni' to levy on the
revenues from Kr?ai private fortunes
for sr.rne of the millions the govern
ment raise to carry out the ariny
and navy increases
The Supreme I'ourt's decision has
absolutely unfettered the Income tux .'i*
? source of revenue, " said Rtpresmla
t'vn Hull, of T'nne.iyec, author of the
law "AM doubt is removed, and Cnn
?; left much freer to act. I be
lieve Congress will lake advantage of
the opportunity to anu nd tho law ma
terially. Without any unusual or un
ju--. iharif'f, i* r.i'i l.e made to >lebl
? ?1 t'? 5 1 y?*?.a^o.one ;i *.'ear, "if
against r*r at
piesent "
rtepresentat lv> II iil is preparing
? ? ir'etjdnients to 'Ttrj"- the tax to in
? es below J' <>?>. us d make grnded
tn il ? e rin\< ' <>n income.;
? > i ? e>! Si'ft.ooo a
NOT < VltlllCI) TOW Mill
A N \ IJI'.I'IMTK SOI.I TIO.V
So far th? problem of raisinvr the
jev. r.iie f.,r national defense, although
ttpproaehed from many atiirles. has not
bi.en carried toward any definite solu
tion. beratife with the constitutionality
>?( the iii'omo tax undecided, adminis
tration le.ider?" were reluctant to place
t" tt>ueh dependence on it.
In it? decision, the Supreme Court
? onj-trued for the first time the six
ternth aioeniUi.ent ii. thv Constitution,
under whi' h the tax Is levied, ar.d gave
it tin- l.roadest interpretation possible,
rejecting suggestions to confine its
H<npc to narrow limits.
The decision w as announced by Chief
Justice White, and was rendered In
the appeal of Frank K Itrushaber from
the action of the New York Federal
Court In refusing to enjoin the South
ern Pacific, of which Urushaber was a
stockholder, from paying the tax. The
case raised substantially every point!
Involved Its all the five income tnx !
cases before the court, with the excep- j
Hon of the effect of the provision al- 1
lowing mining corporations to make a i
fi per cent deduction annually from
gross Income for depletion of mines.
This provision Is regarded as being an
amendment to the old corporation tax,
mther than a feature of the income
tax.
CHIEF JI STICF. WHITE
POINTS OI'T I1ASIC KIIROR
The basic error of those who at- |
tacked the constitutionality of the tax,
Chief Justice White held, was in re
garding the sixteenth amendment as
empowering the I'nited States to levy '
a direct tax without apportionment j
among the States, according to popu- I
latlon. Jn substance, the court held j
that the sixteenth nmendment had not j
empowered the Federal government to
levy a new tax, but "that the whole j
purpose of the amendment was to re- j
lieve all Income taxes from a consid- J
cratlon of the source whence tho in
come was derived."
Those opposing the tax had urged
Hie sixteenth amendment provided that
Income "from whatever source derived"
should bo taxed, without regard to ap
portionment among the States. Tliey j
argued that the Underwood-Simmons j
income tax provision, by reason of ;
exemptions of certain Incomes from i
taxation, had not come within tho!
meaning of the amendment.
Chief Justice White said the powerj
of the Federal government to levy an
income tax had never been questioned. ]
Quoting at length from the famous
income tax decisions of 1S05, he de-|
dared the court then recognized tne|
fact that "taxation on income was in.
the nature of an excise, entitled to be1
enforced as such, unless and until It j
was concluded that to enforce It would
amount to accomplishing the result;
which the requirement as to apportion-!
incnt of direct taxation was adopted to
prevent, in which case the duty would
arise to disregard the form and con
sider the substance alone, and hence'
subject the tax to regulation as nppcr-|
tlonment. which otherwise, as an ex
cess.. would not apply to it."
AIIOPTEH WITH VIEW
ok onviATi.vt; noimn
The court then derided, he added, |
that the effect of the income tax from |
t eal estate was the same as if a direct j
tax hail been levied on the. real estate, j
and that It was with a view of ohviat-{
ing such questions that the amendment!
had heen adopted.
Inasmuch as the amendment had not
conferred the power to levy any In
come tax. said the chief Justice, it
. (Continued on Third i'age.>
Differences Soon
May Come to Head
Goclhals Resents Criticisms by
Edwards Concerning Canal
Goccrnmcni.
PANAMA, January 24.?.Serious dIf- |
ferenoes of an official nature that have'
arisen during the last few months;
i between Major-General George W.J
I Goetlials, Governor of tho Panama!
I Canal Zone, and Rrlgndler - General
: Clarence It. Edwards, commanding the'
I L*nlte/i .States troops in the zone, are
'to come to a head at Washington
i when those two officials reach tho capl-:
I tnl, according: to Governor Goethals. j
, They sailed to-day for tho United j
. States on the steamer Calamares.
Governor Gocthaln said before his
departure that criticisms alleged to
I have been xnado by General Edwards
' had reached tho Secretary of War, and
i that the secretary had requested In-j
formation on the subject. The Gover-?
nor replied with an official communica-!
tion, in which he detailed tho troubles,
at considerable length. It Is under
! stood that Governor Goethals resents
j many of the critlclmas General Kd-,
wards is alleged to have made rela
tive to the form of the canal gov
ernment, General Edwards believing, it
lis said, that the military and civil au
I thority should be vested in one p?-r
!son, instead of separated, as at pres
; eni.
; General Kdwards, before leaving Pan
jama, said that Governor Goethals had
i been misinformed, but otherwise he
declined to discuss the subject,
t Governor Goethals further announced
he Intends to give General Edwards ani
.ample opportunity to make what sti'te-'
; ment* he thinks necessary before the
, Secretary of War and the congressional
j committees
EXPLOSION KILLS FOUR
j Pin n t of Krlkrr Hlnncr Company Ur
"'rojfil?Pnntr Nnrrnnlr Averted
In \cnr-IIj- School.
UUFFALO, N" V., January 24.?Four
j persons are known to have been killed,
j n-Vf-ral arp mls?lng and four were in- .
Jtired in nn explonlon late, to-dav that ,
' wrecked the plant of the Kelker j
! Filower Company, manufacturers of
: planing mill exhausts and ventilators
Charles Kelkor. head of the Ann. said \
! that from twenty-two to twenty-five i
j employers were In the plant, and that j
twenty-one of them had been accounted i
? for. Mrs. Helen Kelker. his wife, had !
both legs blown off. and probably J
will die.
The building occupied by the Arm i
wns a long two-storv frame structure.
The explosion demolished all the walls,
i letting the roof down on the ruinfr-, j
' which caught fire. Pieces of the foun
dation were thrown "hundreds offcet
i away, and the explosion smashed near
: ly every window glass within the
| radius of a block.
j Ithin Sfrn feet of the Kelker plant
j is one of the largest Eas*. Side grammar
i s- hools. About 1.500 boys and girls1
; were thrown into a temporary panic,
; but the teachers quickly marched them
J to the street.
Mr. Kelker was uncertain as to the j
j caus? of the explosion. Gas was used I
in several forms in the welding depart
, ment, and was kept In retainers in the
! basement. He estimated the financial ;
! loss nt J60.000.
FLOODS FAST RECEDING
| Cllly.cn* of Yiimn and Vninn Vnllry
lirgln PlnnnlitK n econstruc
tlon Work.
' YUMA, ARIZ., January 24.?Floods'
| caused by the breaking of the govern- i
! ment levee of the Colorado River on ?
Saturday receded to-day. and citizens ;
of Yuma and tho Yuma Valley began
plnnning reconstruction work.
The Colorado River had receded to !
the twenty-two-foot stage to-night,
and It was thought the flow would be
normal by to-morrow.
Reports from the Imperial Valley, in !
California, indicated the Colorado was 1
falling there, and It was believed there j
was no likelihood of damage being !
done to the levee there.
Food was sent to the Indian reserva
tion to-day. and telegrams sent to :
Secretary Ijine, of the Interior, urging |
the government to appropriate 150,000
for immediate repair of the levees, to
prevent a water famine through waste.
ALLAN LINER DISABLED
Stenmer Pomeranian, Oiitwnrd-Ilotind
From ftlimffovr. Is Making
for <turcimtonn.
QITEKN'STOWN', January 24?The
i Allan Ijlne steamer Pomeranian, out-,
j ward-bound from Glasgow for Canada,
; has been disabled in a terrific gale, and
j Is making for Queenstown.
The steamer has lost her rudder ami;
propeller. All aboard tho Pomeranian
[are safe. Another steamer is escort-j
j ing her to port.
LYNCHED BY MOB OF 25
W. J. Mnyfleltl, Charged With Killing'
HI* Father, >Iother nml llrother, j
Put to Death In Texas.
TEXARIvA.VA, TEX., January 24. ?W.
J. Mayfleld, aged about fifty, was taken!
from the Jail at Roston, Tex., shortly
before midnight and lynched by twenty-)
five masked men, according to reports'
here. Mayfleld was held In Jail|
charged with the killing of his father,
mother and brother recently with1
an ax I
FRANCIS JOSEPH VERY ILL |
.
Arivlec" Received hy Vatican Are to I
FITect Tlint Ktnperor'n Condi
tion 1m Grave.
I.ONDON. January 24.?Advices re- j
ceived by the Vatican ar* to the effect
that the condition of Emperor Francis
Joseph is grave, says the Daily Tele
graph's Ilo:?o correspondent.
BILL IS OFFERED
Gives Citizens Right to Elect
Charter Commission Inde
pendent of Council.
TORRENS BILL UP TO-NIGHT
Advocates of Land Registration
Measure to Be Given Hear
ing Before Committee.
Richmond's charter-commission Ml!
was launcher! in the Senate vesterdav
by Senators Cannon and Wendenburg,
and referred to the Committee on
County, City and Town Organization.
The hill is designed to Rive to the
city, upon petition of 25 per cent of the
qualified voters, the right, at a special
election to he called for the purpose, to
elect a commission of seven members,
which would then draw up a new form
of government, 'o b* submitted, after
its approval by the people, to the <;eti
i eral Assembly for enactment, without
the obligation first to seciiie 'he sij>
proval of the plan by the Cit> Council.
Torrens system advocates will rally
iti force to-niRht before the House
Committee for Courts of .fustic* to re
j new their fight for the passapre of the
land registration law in Virginia? a
I campaign that has lircn w:ii:<d at the
three- Inst succeeding Legislatures, ea>'h
time with better proRress, i.nr alvav
short of complete surces*. The hear
ing will take place in the hall of the
House of Delegates at S o'clock.
STito\(; iii:i.i;(;atio\s
??'A Villi TOItII |;\.S ltll.1,
Th" delegation that will appear in
support of the bill will it.' lude sumo of
the leading bankers and business men
of this cltv. In the party will be
Chairman William IiiKie, of the hoard
of directors of the Federal Reserve
Hani: of Richmond; President i!. II.
i Smith, of the Planters' National Hank;
Cashier \\\ Meade Addison, of the First
National Flnnk; Vice-President Henry
' K. Lltchford. of th" Ohl Dominion Trust
: Company Secretary J. W. Sintou, of
the Richmond <'learim;-House Associa
! t Ion. Robert M. Kent, ??f the Hank of
Commerce and Trusts; Colonel John
| Murphy and Captain John Landstrcet.
Colonel Kngene C. Massie nn>! J. IC
! Tyler. .It-., the two Itichmonders who
j initiated the campaign for the enact
ment of the Torrens law in Virginia,
and championed the measure in the
early days, when it encountered hos -
i tility in every direction, will address
i the committee. Talks will he made
also i?y several members of the Rich
mond delegation.
The hill is virtually the same measure
[that was introduced at the special see
| .slon last winter. It is believed that
it would have been passed at that
i session had there remained sufficient
time to do so after it was introduced.
.Supporters of th* measure predict that
the bill will be made law by the pres
ent tieneral Assembly.
PI lit-: AIJVKIlTISIMi
iiiiii. pa*m:i> h\ not m:
Kittle developed yesterday to disturb
; the legislative seas. Attacking a
crowded calendar with the vigor born
of the Sabbath day's rest, the House
[passed more than a score of local and
i uncontested bills, which go now to the
i Senate for concurrence. The Senate
passed five hiil.s and disposed of other
routine business in a session of thirty
five minutes.
State-wide interest attaches to the
"pure advertising" bill passed yester
day by the House. The measure makes
it a misdemeanor for any person, firm
or corporation to publish a deceptive or
misleading advertisement, and provides
for this offense a fine of from $25 to
$250. or confinement in jail from ten
to sixty days, or both. The bill was
introduced by Delegates .lones. of Rich
mond, and Murray, of Newport News.
An amendment incorporated at the
| instance of Delegate Hush A. White
requires that the objectionable adver
tisement shall have been published
"fraudulently and knowingly." thus re
lieving from punishment the individual
lor firm that is guilty of publishing a
misleading advertisement through In
advertence. The bill was introduced at
; the request of the Retail Merchants'
Association of Richmond, and has the
support of retail merchants through
out the Stale.
PIIOPOSKS \ \\ I M. srcssioxs
op tiioMoitai. Assmnn.y
A joint resolution introduced yester
day by Delegate Hugh A. White pro
vides for a constitutional amendment
calling fi>r the assembling of the
Legislature every year for a session of
fortv-tlve days, instead of biennially, -is
at present, for a sixty-day session. Mr.
White's plan is to model the Oeneial
Assembly after Congress, making the
two annual meetings the first and
second half of a single session.
At the first half of the session, utuier
this resolution, would be introduced all
bills, local and general, hut only local
measures would he passed. During the
second half of the session the tieneral
Assembly would be restricted to the
consideration and passage of the eon.
eral bills Introduced at the first half
of the session and such other general
bills of urgent character as the Legis
lature would. l?y a nine-tenths vote,
permit to he offered.
"It is becoming more and more ap
parent that the sixty-day biennial ses
sion does nol ?ive enough time for tne
proper disposition of all business." said
Mr. White yesterday. "At the. past t a o
sessions amendments were proposed
looking to the leiiRthening of the ses
sion to ninety days. The same amend-j
ment will probably be offered this year.
It will cost tho Stale no more to hold
annual sessions of forty-five days each'
than to hold a biennial session of ninety1
days, and the yearly meetings will bo
far more satisfactory."
A Joint session of the Senate and ]
House Committees on Schools and Col- !
leges will be held on Thursday after- '
noon at 3:80 o'clock to take up the
(Continued on? Fifth Page.)
But Council Sticks to Separate
Nonsalaried Board for Control
of Fire Department.
POLICE PUT UNDER MAYOR
Health Department Under Ad
ministrative Board?Concurs
in Aldermen's Compromise.
Hy a. vote of 12 to 6. the Common
' Council la?t night concurred in the
i rirundy substitute for the teport of
the Joint Committee on Charter Change,
under the terms of which the Police
I'apartment is placed under control of
i 'he Mayor, the Health Department
under the direction of the Administra
tive lloard. and the Fire Department,
as it is to-day, under the management
! of an unsalaried hoard.
T he vote on concurrence stood as
follows: ayes. Atkinson. Batklns. Hut
ler, C'heatwood, l'crt'tifson, l^add. Had
don. Jones, IMJcher. Kauliffe, Herein
and President Peters; noes. Kngltsh.
Howell. J'ow.'rs. Se.iton, Sullivan and
, Welsh.
There was question as to whether
the Employment Bureau, under The
t<rtns .>f the Urundy substitute. would
!"? placed under the Administrative
Hoard. City Attorney Pollard, called
into consultation at the request <>f mr
1I addon, deciding that as the burcm
was the creation of the City Council
it would not he affected bv change in
the clia iter.
I.OM-'.* KHiHT *ro AIIOI.1SII
HO Mil) OK KlMK COM W ISSIOM'.IIS
-if. English exercised futile effort to
have the Fire Department placed un
der the Administrative Hoard, and Mr.
s< .iton made as equally vain endeavor
to have the Police Board retained,
while Mr. Sullivan, gome a step
further, offered argument in favor of
'he retention of all three Independent
boards The Sullivan motion, offered
as a substitute for the whole, lost hy
;? vote i.f io to f>, and the Seaton
?motion was lost by the heavier vote
of 1.. to 3. Councilman C. C. .Tones,
of Madison Ward, chairman of the
i.Toint Committee on Charter Change,
voted for concurrence upon every ques
tion. and was highly elated at the suc
cess of his efforts.
Concurrence havintr been cain. 1, it
remains now only for the Mayor' to
fiitrn the ordinance instructing the City
Attorney to procure in the 'General
'Assembly the passage of a bill effecting
'the changes jn the charter recom
mended by both branches of the City
; Council.
| AM. AW KM) MK .NTS
AUK VOTKII HO\V\
i An Amendment offered l?y Mr. Kngllvh
to give to officers and employees re
moved or suspended i>\- rhe Mayor the
rlirht of nppea! to a jury was de
feated. 10 to s. Mr. .lores explaining
that the judge of the Hustings Court,
to whom the right of appeal now lies,
passes only upon the efficiency and
adaptability of the officer or employee
ho may he removed or suspended
Mr. English al:o attempted to prove
that the charter changes would place
the 1 .mployment Bureau under the Ad
j ministrative Hoard, and said that the
<"lty Council should not yield to popular
clamor for hasty legislation.
I "I would not," said Mr. Knglisli. -sac
rifice my personal opinion as to the
I a11 \ inability of making these suggested
changes merely for the sake of har
mony and agreement between the two
branches. The report, I believe, should
s-o back to the l> >dy from which it
emanated." He moved to amend by!
placiner the Eire Department under the'
j Administrative Hoard. Seatoti and Sul-J
livnn following with substitutes to
leave the Hire, Health and Police Pe-i
: partments and the Employment Huteau,
! independent.
j ?IVKS i'l'.Oi'l.lv II \MMKit
TO K\0<K CO I \('||. >\ 1TII
j "If we accept this report." said Mr.)
Seaton. "we will legislate ourselves out
of existence. We will give to the peo
ple a hammer with which they may
knock r>u; our brains." j
Mr. Sullivan wanted to know who I
was behind the movement for a change J
in the charter, and Mr. Haddon replied !
by saying that the City Council Itself j
| had appointed the <'harter-Cha nge |
| Committee, and had appealed to the'
legislature to permit the people, to
petition for. and vote upon, a change
in t lie i ha rt e r.
"There is no reason why we should i
shirk the respor.slbi lit y laid upon our!
shoulders," said Mr. Haddon. "I am '
not satisfied with 'lie amendments :
made by the Hoard of Aldermen, but f
? see no reason why. If we cannot get '
| a whole loaf, we should refuse half a '
loaf."
"Hut," replied Mr. Sullivan, "under !
the terms <>f the bill empowering the'
people tc? elect a charter-change coin- i
mission, we can put the whole burden i
on them, and why should we assumel
I this duty to ourselves. Haven't the j
boards proven satisfactory? We know |
that they have performed their duties
i well and that they cause no expense !
, to the city, yet there is a hullabaloo |
! to have the charter changed." Mr. j
Sullivan said he was ready to meet the :
people on the question at the ballot
1 box on April I.
POWKM. DC.IKVDS
SKPAIIATK POI.ICK IIOAItl)
Mr. Powell spoke strenuously in
favor of the retention of the Police
| Hoard, saying that the Police Depart
ment had been freed of its "kinks," anil
that it was operated as cheaply as any
department in I lie country.
"l.cts vote." urged- Mr. Fergusson.
and the vote was taken.
Mr. Seaton. . vice-chairman of the
Finance Committee, asked that the ap
propriations lie limited to 07 1-2 per
cent of the estimated revenues. Instead
of f>ii per cent, as the original report
(Continued on Second PayoT>
Germany Submits Another Writ
ten Proposal Designed to
End Controversy.
GREAT SECRECY PREVAILS
Objectionable Phrases Eliminated
and Superfluous Discus
sions Stricken Out.
WASH 1XGTON*. January 1' I?Ger
many ha* submitted to the United
States. t hrotigh Ambassador von Ltein
storff. another written proposal de
signed to bring about a settlement of
the controversy over the sinking of the
I.usitanla, ivith a loss of nioro than
10."> American lives. There were iudlca
tions to-night that the document might
I ring to a satisfactory termination ne
gotiations which "nave neen in progress
for eight months.
Alt hough tin- greatest secrecy sur
rounds the negotiations, it was stated
to-night on excellent authority that
Germany had tlnally agreed to elimi
nate from the text of the agreement
any mention of the warning; issued by
the German embassy the day the l.usi
tania sailed on her last trip from New
York. Mention of this warning is un
derstood to have been contained in the
last proposal, which was rejected after
President Wilson had considered it
It is understood also that Germany
has left out of her proposals general
reservation of admission of wrongdoing
on the part of her .submarine com
mander. to which the United States
! objected.
?wants r. s. to takic pi?
rilKKIXIM OK M-'.AS
It was stated authoritatively also
that in her last coinmunicat ion Ger
many makes some reference of a de
sire to see Die United States take some
| action in regard to the <|iiestions in
volving the freedom of the seas.
The German ambassador and Secre
tary Lansing probably will confer re
garding the proposal in the immediate
future.
Germany reiterates clearly, it. is
said, that the torpedoing of the I.usi
tania was an act of reprisal for the
Mritish blockade of the German coast.
i:\treme regret again is expressed that
Americans lost their lives in the com
mission of the reprisal, and Germany
freely offers reparation in the form of
indemnity., The attention of the
. United States is called to the fact that
such forms of reprisals have been dis
continued as the result of negotiations
with this government and to the fact
that broad assurances for the future
have been given. All discussions con
s.dered superfluous have been stricken
from the proposal.
<Consideration of public opinion 'n
this country and Germany were said
to have played an important part in
the drafting of the document. It has
been pointed out that German public
opinion would not look with approval
upon a form of settlement which in
any wav admitted that, regardless of
the Ameiicaus Involved, the torpedo
ing of the l.usitania was an improper
act. and which might reflect upon the
commander of the German submarine,
who wns acting under instructions,
which since have been modified. In
view of these instructions. Germany
may admit in the final settlement that
it wns wrong that Americans shon>
have been lost without conceding it
was wrong for the commander to fire
a torpedo at t he liner.
GKItMANV MOST WXUUS
TO SKTTI.E CONTUOVKItSV
Tho German government is under
stood to be most anxious to settle the
matter in a manner mutually satisfac
tory to both governments, but does not
think it is honorable to accept the
views of the United States.
An optimistic feeling seemed to pre
vail in both diplomatic and ofllcia'
ci rcles.
A new proposal is understood to have j
reached the German embassy late last
week. The proposal is understood to
have been received by Secretary |,ans- j
ing last night or early to-day. and
submitted to the President. The docu
ment is said to cover about one and
one-half sheets of ordinary letter!
pa per.
That the negotiations have been near
a termination several times within the
past month is known, though President j
\\ ilson, Secretaty Lansing and the i
German ambassador are virtually the
only ones in the secret of the ex- '
changes.
Count von Itcrnstorff is understood |
to liavo personally drafted the pro- <
posal now under consideration. lie
has been operating under wide latitude,
which has been allowed h|m by his:
government; submitting to Merlin from
time to time the more important <iues- '
tions involved. After Ids last pro
posal was rejected, ho is understood
to have asked his government for
permission to eliminate from the text
of the document all matter objection
able. to the United States
Wll,L SKNIJ UKJOIMlKIt
TO I.AST A \<"0\ A NOTK
With prospects of settlement of the
T.usitania dispute near a finish, the
United States is to dispatch its forth
coming rejoinder to Austria-Hungary's
last Ancona note.
The note, in a broad sense, is in a i
satisfactory tone. Certain officials be
lieve that Austria-Hungary's attempt!
to Justify the torpedoing will he over- I
come. They are unable to agree that i
forty minutes was more than suflicient |
time to afford the persons on board an !
opportunity for embarkation, and do j
not consider that there was Justifica- i
tion for the theory that the com- j
mander of the submarine torpedoed the 1
vessel "to accelerate" embarkation, or I
because a steamer, presumably an |
enemy cruiser, appeared on the horiv.on. I
Assurances that the incident would not j
bo repeated would be highly acccptablo. '
SCUTARI WON
; BY AUSTRIANS
Air Raids Take Placc
in Various Localities
A lit rniilN liji t r taken iilnrr in
vnriim* IiiciiIMIcm. (?rrmnlii
ni::iln luivr iiiikki'iI liter Ilinrr in iin
aeroplane, ivhli'li ?im ciiunKcil by
nil 11??- itiitlalrcrnft glint it ml pur
mik-iI lit llridsli airmen. Whether
Ini in lis ivprr dropped Im not stilted In
tin- (illii'ltil announcement.
MimtiHtlr, (ilrvKrli tnul oilier
points In-Ill lij th?> Teutonic nlllrx
near tin* l.ri-ck liorder urri1 viillcil
li.? it Iiitk** I'mioli nit* squadron nml
t Inli-ii11> bombarded. nliilr Mrlc and
t.iTiuuii positions in llclKium lil?n?
?prc \IiWh1 by I lie rutrnlc allied
aircraft mill I III III lull.
Xotllliig Iiiih imi mi* through ???? n ?
crmlnji the sittinlliin ntt the Itiixniiiii
front. On the l'rriicli nml 11 it 11 it n
fronts the usual Inimbard ments nml
sapping iMifrntinuN eoullnuo, hut
without great gains for etllicr hide.
The llriiish. Ilirniigli the explosion
of n mine nenr St. Mini. In the Arms
rcghin. illil considerable duninuc to
German Irenrlien. and also silcnced
German trench mortars by artillery
lire near \ pres.
Klooili and generally had trriitlier
n re Iin mp?*rlng the opernt ions of the
II rl t IhIi nuiiinst the Turks In Mesn
potiuiiln. The high witter In the
'1'iBrln In preventing troop mnve
ineiits. llnriiiK the lull in the liglit
inu mi armistice mm declared Tor
the burial of the ilenil.
In .Vorllitti'Kt Keypt the llrltlsh
Imte lieen Muecessfti I in un ntt nek
on n en nip of the .scnus.sl t rllienmeu.
the t rl lies men being dispersed uml
their en in p tleN t rnyetl.
U. S. VIGOROUSLY OPPOSES
TRADING WITH ENEMY ACT
Representations Prepared for Pre
sentation to British Foreign
Oflice.
TO GO rOHWAHl) i.mmi:i>iatioly
Holds That It Will He Impossible
Successfully to Aim Hiow at Ger
many Without Doing Cireut Dum-1
aire to Interests of Tiiis Country.
WASHINGTON. .Intiuary 2-1.?Groat
Britain's "trailing with the enemy" act
is vigorously opposed Ity Hie United
States in representations prepared to
day for presentation to the British
Koreign Ollice. They are expected to
go forward immediately.
The State Depart incut considers that
Slave and unjust iflable injury to
American commerce may follow should
an attempt he made to enforce pro
visions affecting business in this
count r>
"The trading with the enemy" act
prohibits persons residing in Great
Britain from trailing with any corpora
tions or individuals which are engaged
in supplying the Teutonic allies or have!
business dealings with them.
Oil J I'M TS TO At* fl.lt ATIO.X
OK At T TO ? . S. TIC Vl)i:l
The position of the United States Is, |
that, aside from a lack of legal author-1
ity for proposed interferences with1
trade, the relations of American and
German capital with American manu
facturing industries are such that it
would be unite impossible to success
fully aim a blow at Germany without;
doinfi great damage to interests in this
country. This fact in itself is con
sidered sufficient Justification for ob
jection to the application of I lie act
to American trade.
The ropresi ntatioiis will not take tne
form of a protest, because the act is
limited in its immediate operation to
British subjects, but they will serve'
the purpose of wanting Great Britain
that the act is regarded as being:
wholly unfair, and that the proper
compensation will be expected for any
injurt sustained by American trade. ,
? ?H'cials regard the Americap position
as being amply backed by precedent,
and say Great Britain itself has undo
objections lo attempts to injure t!>e
trade of an enemy at the expense of a
neutral.
REV. DAVID L. FRAZER DEAD
Widely Unotvii Preshy leriiin Minister
uml Theological Writer lO.vpi rrs In
111m Seventy-Bight Ii 1 rnr.
( Speci.t I to The Times-I dispatch. |
NKWAKK, N. January 24.?Itev.
David I!. I.. Krazer. personal friend of
Wood row Wilson, and for twenty-sixl
years pastor of the rich I'M rut Presby
terian Church here, died to-day at the
home of his son, Spaulding Krazer. flo.
was in bis seventy-eighth year.
Un was widely known as a then-'
logiral writer, was a director of the'
Bloomfteld i X. .1.) and Union Theologt-i
cal Seminaries and a trustee of Prince
ton 1'nlversUy. It was while serving
in the latter capacity that a clt.ie!
friendship developed between Dr. ;
Krazer and Mr. Wilson, then president j
of Princoton. Dr. Krazer was one of
the guests at the. wedding of Mrs. |
Francis It. Sa y re. the President's
daughter.
Dr. Krazer graduated front Prince
ton in ISO! and from Union Theologi?.?aj
Seminary in 1 Ht?4. Ilis llrst charge as
a pastor was at t'lifton, S. T. There
after be held the pastorate of Piesbv
terian churches in Hudson. X. V.,
Buffalo and Brooklyn.
SERB DEFENDERS
RETIRE WITHOUT
ANY RESISTANCE
Most Important Trading
Town in Albania Falls
Before Invaders.
DISARMING OF COUNTRY
IS WITHOUT FRICTION
Montenegrins Lay Down Arms
Before Arrival of Troops and
Return to Homes.
(iKH.MAX AIRSHIP OYER DOVER
Hostile Miii'ljlno Engaged by A11
Antiaircraft Onus and Pursued
by British Airmen.
I'.Kni.IN. January 2I (by wireless to
Say ville).?Scutari litis been occupied
liv Austro-Huncarian troops, according
to an iinnounoomciu to-dav hv the
Aust ro-1 lutigarian headquarter.?. Sev
eral thousand Serbians, who formed the
garrison, retired toward the south
without offering any resistance.
The teM "f the statement follows:
"Scutari has been occupied by Aiis
tro-liungarlan troops. Several thous
and Serbians, who formed the garrison,
retired toward the south without re
sistance.
"Austro-llungarians also have oc
cupied Nikslo. 1 Janilovgrad and Pod
^orltza.
"Tin; disanninK of the country has
been carried on up to the present with
out friction. At several places the
Montenegrins have not even waited
until the Auotro-HunKarians appeared,
but have laid down their arms before
the arrival of the troops, in order to
return to their homes. At other places
a majority of those disarmed prefer in
ternment to being sent home.
"The population generally has rc
eeivetl^opr.troops in a friendly manner,
and in some. instances with ceremony.
Riots such as occurred at l'odgoritza
reused as soon 11s the first Austro
Hungariau oetachinent appeared.
"Italian uovances in the district of
I avarone and on the Uonihon slope
were repulsed."
Scutari wns occupied by Montenegrin
troops in .tune. 10ir>, It being explalnod
in an otliclal note issued by the Monte
negrin government that strategic and
political reasons Impelled the Monte
negrin descent 011 Albania. An addi
tional reason given was that other
powers already had requested portions
of that country.
Scutari is the most important trading
town in Albania, and has a population
of 20,000. it lies on the east bank of
l.ake Scutari, and has been rebuilt
since the earthquake of 1905.
(ilOll M A X A Kit OPI.A XK
PASSKS OVRIt nOVKK
LONDON', January 24.?A German
aeroplane passed over Dover at 4
o'clock this afternoon. A British of
ficial announcement issued to-night
says it was engaged by all the anti
aircraft guns and pursued by two Brit
ish machines.
Berlin reports received in the United
States show that this is the third air
laid on that important channel port
within forty-eight hours. Apparently
news of the previous raids have been
suppressed in London, the ofliclal an
nouncements maue on Sunday night
saying merely that bombs had been
dropped 011 "the Kentish coast."
The raids came on the heels of the
published stories that the Germans
have perfected a new type of super
aeroplane. the Foklter, surpassing any
aircraft In the possession of the allies.
The latest raids have aroused English
fears that the Kokkers are to bo di
rected against London. However, the
Germans seem 10 be centering their
attention on Dover, sixty miles away,
ami the scone of the greatest activity
in connection with the transference of
men and supplies to the Continent.
r\VO OFFICIAL ST A TE 51 FX TS
ON OKIt.UAN AI It rt.tins
mom.IN. January "4 (wireless via
Sayville).?Two ollieial statements re
garding the German air raids on the
Kugtish coast wero Issued to-day by
the German admiralty. The first one
sa j s:
".V German naval aeroplane during
the night of January 22-23 dropped
bombs on the station, barracks and
docks of Dover."
The second statement says:
"Two German nav.il aeroplanes on
January 2.1 dropped bombs on the
aviators' sheds in llougham. west of
Dover. Heavy tires were clearly ob
served."
Announcing an air attack on Mets
by the French and other German
aerial operations, an ofllcial report
says:
"An enemy squadron bombarded Mets,
where bombs fell 011 rhe bishop's dwell
tng and on a house in tho hospital
court. Two civilians were killed ami
eight wounded. One aeroplane was
shot down and its occupants mad*
prisoners. German aviators have bom
bnrdod railroad stations and military
establishments behind th? ?nemj'? '?
