.
Eft.
e
Li-
Li1'
'ft..
1,
re.
THE WIIOLL' 1ILAMKD FAMILY.
Who swears mid rages nil tlio dnyl
Who ulnVcs for cash, t lie Mils to pnyt
Fnthor!
Who I (lie impel sweet from heaven
Who works from dawn (III nearly
'loTcnl
Mother!
Who smokes a pipe nnd clgnrcltc?
Who's ninny broke nnd deep In debt?
Son!
Who docs not wnsli a single dish,
Yet (rets her henrt's most dearest wish?
Daughter!
Who scratches at his mangy side
And then in father's bed doth hide?
Dogr!
Who purrs and licks her fur so clean?
Who never with n mouse is seen?
Cat!
Philadelphia Ledger.
PLAY MAXCHUSTKlt FRIDAY.
Tho Mnysvlllo High School basket
ball team will play tho Manchester
High School team at tho M. H. S. gym
nasium Friday evening. This Is the
second tlmo thnt theso two teams havo
met In this city. Tho previous games
went to tho local live by a small
score. Tho Manchester team bns Im
proved since this tlmo and nro hoping
I to oven matters when they again meet
,tho boys with tho gold nnd white Jer
seys. Tho shift In tho lineup after
tho disastrous trip down tho river has
inndo It very hard to forecast who will
represent the Mnysvlllo school In the
game, but Coach G. C. Manco hopes
by Friday to havo a flvo picked tbat
will bo tho best tho M. II. S. squad
contains.
MA.NY ATTEND Fl'XKKAL.
500 BILLS
In Hand of Leglslnlhc (,'ommltlccs At
Frankfort From Hlnlo Art Com
mission To Hepenl of
Dot; Tax.
COUNTY COUHT.
The will of John D. Langhorno, filed
and probated In tho District of Colum
bia, was produced In court and after
duo examination was filed nnd pro
bated. .Mr. nnd Mrs. Frank Eltel will leave
Wednesday for Daytonla, Fla., where
they will make their future headquar
ters. From there they expect to visit
different parts of the state. Mr. Eltel
after years of business Is now taking
a well earned vacation. They will be
absent about two months.
Our price this week for butterfat,
32 cents Maysvllle. Brings It In any
day, any time of tho day, nnd rccelvo
your check promptly.
MAYSVILLE MODEL CltEAMERY.
Mr. Edward Barbour while playing
Indoor baseball Saturday morning In
the High School auditorium, fell and
broko his left -wrist. However, ho Is
now getting along very nicely.
Mr. and Mrs. It. K. Hocfilch will
give a reception Saturday evening
from 8 to 10 o'clock in honor of their
son Itobcrt and bride.
Mr. W. S. Wheat ley of Sardls, was In
Maysvllle Monday attending the to
bacco sales,
Mr. W. P. Bowman of Vanceburg,
was In this city Monday.
Tho funeral of Samuol O. Porter,
who died Saturday morning, was held
I from the residence Monday morning
at 10 o'clock. Ilev. J, M. Literal of
tho Third Street M. E. church, of
which Mr. Porter was a member, con
ducted tho service. Interment In tho
Mnysvlllo cemetery. Many friends and
relatives attended the funeral.
OH, T1IK LUCKY THING'.
Mr. Newell Stlckloy held ticket No.
S5 that drew the wristwatch that
was drawn for at A. Clooncy's Satur
day evening. The watch was given
away by the local lodge of the United
Commercial Travelers In their sale of
tickets for the benefit of the poor of
this city.
BIDS WANTED.
The specifications and plans for the
building of the M. E. church at Mur
physvllle are now In the hands of the
committee and can be seen at Mr
Shell Rhodes', It. D. No. 2, Maysvllle,
Ky. All bids must be In by February
15. Tho right Is reserved to reject
any and all bids.
FOR SALE.
S. C. It. I. Ited and Golden Laced
Wyandotte Cockerels. Eggs for hatch
ing. Satisfaction guaranteed. S. H.
Mitchell, Maysllck, Ky.
Mr. Austin T. Davidson of Itiplcy,
was In this city Monday on business.
Mr. W. J. Asbury of Mt. Olivet, was
in this city Monday on business.
Euchre tonight at Eagles' Hall.
I9I5-0UR BANNER YEAR 1915
We wish to thank our many friends and customers for their liberal patronage for this,
our fourth year in business, which has proven to be considerable beyond our anticipation, for
which we are very thankful.
We are now looking forward to a greatly increased business the coming year and we
have installed the latest and most improved equipment for handling your orders, which guar
antees high grade mill work and satisfaction to all, at the best possible prices.
We are leaders in our line.
THE MASON LUMBER COMPANY "WBRS"
a. a. Mclaughlin.
L. . HEIIAN.
Well, Folks,
We Were Sorry You ALL
Were Not Lucky
but there's aDother day, Washington's
Birthday. Save your Tickets.
We have just finished our inventory,
and arc now ready for another year. We
have the goods to sell you, at the right
prices; our entire time and attention is
given to the selection of goods for you;
we anticipate your wants; try to make our
store attractive to you; our working force
polite and attentive, and we cordially in
vite your patronage. We are here to do
business and have the goods and prices.
Can you find any excuse for going
elsewhere?
Let us pull together for a bigger and
better Maysville.
MIKE BROWN
"THE SQUARE DEAL MAN"
Don't forget that the same tickets are good for the
second drawing on Washington's Birthday. Maybe
you'll be lucky enough to get the Maxwell.
5
I
!
s
EVERYONE LIKES THE FLAVOR OF WHEATINA
THY ONE PACKAGE. IT 80LYES THE HREAKFAST PROBLEM.
J 1ST TAPPED ANOTHER UAKKEL OF THE FINEST NEW 0MLEAN8
MOLASSES EVEtt I1KOUGHT TO TOWN.
OUSEL & &OONRAH Plww 43,
Almost everything In which nny mi
nor group of tho great common people
could bo Interested has been provided
for in bills Introduced tho first two
weeks of tho Kentucky General As
sembly, which 'reconvened nt Frank
fort Monday, and yet only BOO of tho
probablo thousand measures aro in
committee hnnds. The legislative ga
mut runs from a state art commis
sion to repeal of tho dog tax,
The dog tax, always n subject of
learned debate In the lower House,
inny bo diverted from school to ngrl-
culturo at this session. After paylnc
for the thoroughbred ewes, each with
two lambs, which appear from tho
auditor's report to bo the only kind of
mutton n dog will eat, tho balanco to
tho credit of tho dog tax is turned
Into tho school fund. Former Com
missioner of Agriculture) J. W. Now
m nn appeared before tho Houso com
mittee today to arguo In favor of turn
ing this sum Into an emergency fund
for the Department of Agriculture, to
bo used In such situations ns that pre
sented by the foot and mouth disease.
Tho $68,000 asked to bo appropriat
ed to pay for stock destroyed la light
ing foot and mouth disease is said to
bo the only appropriation the Govern
or will stand for.
Little enough Is being asked for at
this session. Tho state board of con
trol asks for $100,000 lor Improve
ments at the Eastern Stnto Hospital,
and nearly as much at Lakeland, but
this Is so badly needed thnt the board
decided to put It up to tho adminis
tration nnd General Assembly, so thnt
whatever happened, no ono can blame
it. A Binall sum for flro escapes, wat
er plant nnd hospital nt the Institute
for Feeble Minded was asked just be
fore the Franklin county grand Jury
took cognizance of conditions and di
rected tho county attorney to Inform
tho Governor.
Coin let' Labor Law.
With tho anti-pass bill through tho
Senate, tho corrupt practices act, anti-lobby
and anti-trust measures, will
bo followed by tho convict labor law, a
measure placing all common car
riers "under tho State Railroad Com
mission, and amendments to the rev
enue law, as administration measures.
Chairman Finn of the State Rail
road Commission and the Governor
arc not at ono on railroad legislation.
The chairman stands by his bill to
give the commission authority similar
to tho Interstate Commerce Commis
sion, but ho is making no headway
with the bill Introduced by Senator
Hob Scott of Paducah, and Represen
tative Meriweather Smith of Harrods
burg. Tho Governor Is keen for tho now
county of Stanley, which will half In
close Pike, making a perfect semi
circle, with I'ikcville tho fixed point of
tho compasses, which manifestly wero
used in drawing the boundary line
that divides Pike.
Tho Governor takes tho position
that if the pcoplo want tho county.
It Is a matter of local concern, and
up to tho General Assembly. Ho be
lieves it will cost the state nothing,
and if the new county Is compelled to
raise the assessment to get sulllclent
means to run tho county, the stato
will profit thereby. Meantime, pcoplo
of Pike county opposed to tho divi
sion, say West Virginia mlno opera
tors and town slto owners nro financ
ing tho movement; tbat pcoplo from
ono end of tho new county will havo
to rldo through West Virginia to tho
county scat and cross n (oil bridge
owned by private parties, who also
havo nil tho public utility rights In
the town site, across from William
son, W. Va., whero tho now county
seat Is to be. Advocates of tho now
county chargo that tho financing Is be
ing douo on tho other sldo nnd that
tho people within tho boundaries of
tho new county want It, while outside
Interests are opposed.
Stnto Wido Amendment.
Tho stnto wido prohibition amend
ment will get Its second reading In
the Senate. For the first tlmo tho Sen
ato will actually voto on tho amend
ment that has passed tho Houso fre
quently and been strangled to death
by the rules committee of tho upper
body.
Tho amendment taking tho State
Superintendent out of tho list of con
stitutional olllcers, has been killed by
committee In tho Senato. There re
main tho suffrago amendment, a
workmen's compensation amendment
and ono permitting tolophono com
panies to consolidate.
Railroad legislation, besides tho anti-pass
and Finn bills, require pay
ing of wages Beinl-monthly and limit
the length of trains and require ca
booses. Mining laws require all foremen to
be oxamlned and regulate tho weigh
ing of coal, on which mlno wages aro
based, and tho division of coal mlnod
on a royalty bails.
Liquor regulation goes to the extent
of removing screens from saloons, re
quiring $1,000 bond with stnto license,
both forfeitable for violations by suit
In tho Frnnklln Circuit Court; de
claring snloons violating Inws nui
sances; making second offense ngnlnst
locnl option laws felony; nnd limit
ing the nmoutit of liquor thnt can tut
shipped to nny ono person In dry ter
ritory. HI VEX fc!5 AMI COSTS.
I Mondny afternoon In Police Court
i James Pcnn, Charles Lee, William
Darbcr nnd Norman Epps wore fined
$25 nnd costs on tho chnrgc of gam
tiling. These nro tho negroes who were
arrested by Olllcers Tolle, moomhuff
nnd Throckmorton several days ago In
n raid on Norman Kpps' home In Mor
rison alley. When arrested the men
wero engaged in a gamo of poker,
saying that they wero only playing for
tho love of tho game. However, It was
shown In the trial that money was
used to tnako tho gnmc Interesting.
Rather than pay tho flno they decided
to work out their sentence on' the city
streets.
A birthday party In honor of the
friends of tho City Mission will be
given by tho board of managers at tho
headquarters nt 113 Sutton street, on
Wednesday afternoon from 2 to G
o'clock. All nro Invited to bo pres
ent nnd bring with you tho equivalent
of your age In jicnnlcs. Refreshments
will bo served.
Mr. James Seeloy, tho popular ton
sorlal artist of the Now Central Hotel
barber shop, was a business visitor In
Cincinnati .Monday.
The condition of Mra. James M.
Woods Is somewhat Improved nfter a
serious Illness nt her homo on Forest
avenue.
Mrs. Amanda C. Wood and daughter,
Mrs. J. F. Fuusler, aro visiting rela
tives nnd friends nt Newport and Nor
wood. Dr. Maurice Waller of East Third
street, was removed to I lays wood Hos
pital Monday for treatment.
Judge J. M. Leo of Vanceburg, was
In this city Monday on legal business.
MARRIAGES
.llilelicll-Tlllon.
Monday afternoon County Clerk
Owens Issued n murringc license to
Lafayette II, Tllton, SI, nnd Miss
Amanda M. Mitchell, 21, both of Ma
son county. Tho couple was mar
ried Tuesday In this city.
Ahhott-ltnlafoii.
Tuesday afternoon County Judge W.
II. Rico married Wiley Ralston, 2.1,
nnd Miss Florence Abbott, 21, both of
West Union, O. After the ceremony
tho couple returned to tho homo in
Adams county.
PAIXITL ACCIDENT.
Mondny afternoon whllo unloading
his tobacco at the Central warehouse,
Mr. W. K. Ward of tho county, had tho
mlcfortuue to dlslocntc his shoulder.
Ho was taken to the ofllco of Dr. P. a.
Smoot, where the Injured shoulder
was set In position. Ho Is resting
easily this morning.
Sweet Oranges
m Special 20c dozen.
5 And the best New Orleans Molasses
Maysville at 65c per gallon.
DINGER HIIIIS.
107 West Second Street
Phone 20.
Miss Stella Archdeacon of this city, Messrs. Clayton and James S. Po
ls visiting friends In Columbus, O. Icor spent Monday In Cincinnati.
S WANT TO FEEL ED Ml? i
a
Cure thnt dark brown morning taste?
Take awav that dlzsv feeling
Keen tho Liver. Stomach and Rowels In good condition?
HEPATIC BJH.LTB 25c BOX
-KASY TO TAKE-
MAIL ORIIEItS PltOMPTLY FILLED. 2
For nil grades of whiskies nnd
liquors. Our prices nre right. Order
today. Poyntz Uros., Covington, ICy.
M. F. WILLIAMS DRUG COMPANY
PHONE 91
ley's sister, Mrs. Claudo McNutt, at
Cincinnati.
Mrs, Edward Dulcy and children of
Forest avenue, aro visiting Mrs. Du-
Hi
Mr. W. W. Perry of Fleming county, I
was In this city .Monday on business. 1
Mr. J. E. Kenrns of Paris, wns In i
this city Mondny on business.
The Home of Quality Clothes
Overcoats and Suits Ttma&B
This is overcoat weather. It is remarkable that at this time, when overcoats
are so much in demand, such low prices should prevail.
$22.50 and $25 Overcoats now $20
$ 1 6.50 and $ 1 8 Overcoats now $ 1 5
$ 1 2.50, $ 1 3.50 and $ 1 5 Overcoats now $10
Do Not Overlook This Great Clearance Sale
Come to this store and take advantage of the remarkably low prices.
Now is the time to buy a man's or boy's Mackinaw Coat. There is a material
reduction in price.
HECHINGER &. CO.
22.1 HUNT'S UNDERWEAR SALE
3. Hlgh-grado Materials
Best Work-
Tho DOVE label on rudcrinuslins is your guarantee of: 1. Latust Sylcs. 2. Accurnte Fit.
manshift. 5. Made In tho DOVE S 100 per cent Clean Workshop.
KE-IM'OHCEII ARM-HOLES Every DOVE garment which has an onen arm-holo (llko corset covers, combinations, chemises, etc.) has
an extre. shield sewn nt the arm-holes ns a reinforcement. This prevents wearing out at that oolnt. It is an excluslvo feature which you get
only in DOVE I'ndormusllns.
-
Isabelle Drawer
This Is nn onen circular drawer, combining a short skirt and drawer cut in ono piece. It fits tho hips smoothly, is snug at tho waist
and drapes gracefully.
Tho return to full skirt styles has increased the demand for this comfortable and dainty garment. Made of the softest longclotli,
with ruffle of laco or embroidery. Price ode.
Yery Low Prices on All Ready-tn-WEar Stacks
Not tho "cheap," "tawdry" or "bargain" kind of merchandise. Low prices that aro not an indication of inferior materials or poor
workmanship, but low prices in high-class merchandise. Coats, Suits and Furs at almost half-price,
Dress Bends Bargains
Handsomo 56-Inch wide $2 Coatings for $13. A flno quality worth $3, now $2.00.
ninck 5C-Ineh Serge "5c formerly $1.00.
Dlnek Striped Poplin, 40 Inches wide, fillr, formerly $1.00.
Mrs. It. L. Wood of Cleveland, Is tho
guest of her mother, Mrs. Mary H.
Grimth of East Front street.
Mr William Trouts, Jr., entertain- j .Mrs. It. X. Hoeltlch and Miss Mary
ed a number of friends with a dinner E Hoelllch are visiting nt Wnvcrly,
at the Central on Sunday. Illinois.
Mrs, A. C. IteBpess of Lexington, Is
visiting Mrs. D. E. Feo and Miss
Hogers.
A BIRD STORY
Once upon a time the birds got together to elect a King.
A venerable old Owl was Chairman of the Bird Congress. There was a great deal of commotion and
much chattering. At last a long legged Crane got up and offered this resolution which was unanimously
carried: "Resolved, That the bird which can fly the highest shall be our King."
Then all the birds, the eagles, the buzzards, hawks, blackbirds and bullfinches flashed up into the sky.
One by one they tired and dropped down, except the eagle, who flew up higher than the others, and said,
'Ladies and Gentlemen. I am King:"
Just then a little wren popped up from the back or the eagle's head, where he had slipped in amoqg
the feathers for a free passage as a regular little dead head, and he said, "Not a bit of it, Sir Eagle, 1 am
higl'er than you."
There are many larger stores in Kentucky than Merz Bros., and we may compare
in size to them like the wren to the eagle, but when it comes to LOW PRICES wo aro
ICINGS.
S iiiflr V! n saK w. fix 2 J
4
I
