Hi
The Interior Journal
,
&
a
Established 1 860.57th Year. No. 7. Stanford, Lincoln County, Kentucky, Tuesday, January 25, 191 6.
Tuesdays and 'Fridays
TERRORIZED
COMMUNITY
Jesse McCurry Runs Amuck Near
Parlor Grove, and Is Adjudged
Insane and Sent to Asylum
Jesse McCurry, whd moved into
the southern part of Lincoln from the
mountains of Johnson county, about
four or five years ago, terrorized the
Parlor Grove neighborhood last Fri
day, with a shotgun, and it required
quite an amount of strategy on the
Tart of Deputy Sheriff Monroe
Thompson and a posse of men, to
capture him and bring him to jail
lipre. He was tried in county court
Saturday where a jury found that his
mind was not right, so he was ordered
to the asylum at Lexington.
M'-Curry, who is a young man,
about 25 years of age, and a mem
bei of a well known family in that
-nnrt of the county, seemed to take
a notion to "run amuck" very sud
denly. Together with Jack Lay, his
brother-in-law, he had started rabbit
hunting. He induced. Lay to empty
his gun, and then threatening Lay
with the shotgun he carried, which
was loaded, had Lay marching up and
down the road for quite a while, and
put Lay through all sorts of antics.
Jarvis Burleson and Ansel Petrey
came by, and McCurry stopped them.
"McCurry's aged mother, Mrs. Louis
McMurry came out to remonstrate,
to the crazed man who turned his gun
toward her, and compelled her to
"march." He soon tired of this, so
still threatening them with the shot-gun
if they did not obey, he waved
Lay, Petrey and his mother, off down
the road, telling them to go home,
while he proceeded to "march" Bur
leson a while. This did not suit Bur
leson, a little bit and at the first op-
4- ;f,r Tiiirlpson "went for" Mc-
jiUllUUlbjry -
Currev and for a while they had it, delegates will be named from this me onrisuan cuur, ,, ,
a tm0 nil over the place, congressional district to the national ago, being immersed in a pond with
Tough and tumble all over the place convention. So far the in lfl0 yards of the dwelling where
Although Burleson is the larger man
McCurry in his mania, seemed to have
the strength of a giant, and he got
Burleson down, and gouged one of
his eyes almost out. Petrey seeing
the man's predicament, ran to his
xescue, and pulled the crazy man off,
just in time to save Burleson's sight.
- McCurry therovenktQania,cK5i"u
shop wherThT'brokhis-shotgun'oTer
an anvil, and laid out an assortment
of heavy hammers, as if to defend
himself with them. In the meantime
news of the man's actions had spread
over the community, and a warrant
was sworn out for him. Deputy Sher
iff Monroe Thompson together with
Mack Eubanks, Gran Jones, Nathan
Williams and Marion Warren, went
after McCurry, and quickly over
powered him. Officer Thompson was
about to slip the bracelets on him,
when he promised sanely enough to
be good and to accompany the officer
to town without trouble, which he
did according to his word.
Little of the above was brought
out at the hearing as to McCurry's
sanity at the trial here but was re
lated by the men who brought the
young man to town. It was shown
at the trial, however, that McCurry
had threatened to dynamite his fa
ther's house, if the latter did not give
up the young man's gun which had
been hidden. The elder McCurry ad
mitted this on the stand here, but
did not think that his son was crazy.
tu whole trist of the testimony
seemed to show that young McCurry
had most of the people in that sec
tion terrorized, and afraid of him.
Physicians, to whom his conduct was
explained, declared that his mind
-was undoubtedly affected, so the jury
ordered him taken to the asylum.
CHURCH NOTES.
Rev. J. G. Livingston will preach
at the Crab Orchard Christian church
next Sunday morning at 11 o'clock.
Presbyterian church: Mid-week ser
vices Wednesday evening at 7 o'clock.
Our Missionary Bible Do We Be
lieve In It? Come.
Rev. D. M. Walker will preach at
the Christian church in Danville Sun
day morning January dutn. n tne
good people of Danville want to hear
one of the ablest young pulpit orat
ors in the state, they should go to
hear him.
Frank N. Tinder, the son of Elder
F. M. Tinder, of Lancaster, who is a
student at the Bible College in Lex
ington, has been called to the pasto-
! rate of the Christian church at Hub
ble. He is engaged for the second
and fourth Sundays in the month.
CONSTIPATION AND INDIGES
TION. "I have used Chamberlain's Tab
lets and must say they are the best
I have ever used .for constipation
and indigestion. My wife also used
them for indigestion and they did
her good," writes Eugene S. Knight,
Wilmington, N. C. Obtainable ev
erywhere.
IS YOUR TIME UP?
Quite a number ofc sunscrlptions
to the I. J. expire with the end of,
January. Look on the label of your
paper and see if this means you. If
your label reads Janl6 it does, or if
your date reads Decl5, or Novl5, or
any month with 15 to it, it means
that your time was out in 1915. Re
member the I. J. will be charged at
the rate of $1.50 where a year's sub
scription is not paid in advance, so
send in $1 at once, eimer in check, '
money order, or a bill and the rate
will remain the same to you,
REPUBLICAN
i-TVTi7TKTT-i-kXT
CLlJN V E-IN 1 MJIN
To Select Presidential Delegates For
Eighth District May Be Held
In Stanford Soon '
The Eighth district
republican '
presidential convention will probably
be held in Stanford to select dele
gates to the national convention at
Chicago. A meeting of the Eighth
district republican committee, com- I from the mountains, holders of tick
posed of the county chairmen of the" ets given on Lancaster flour sold in
11 counties of the district, has been ! Eastern Kentucky, coming at noon,
called to be held here next Thursday, on a train from that part of the state.
January 27th by State Central Com- It was estimated that 3,000 or 4,000
mitteeman Geroge D. Florence, of people were in town.
this city, who will preside over the CeleWed 90th Birthday.
deliberations of the committee. At
that meetings, the time and place of Mrs. Elizabeth Mason, Lancaster's
holding the Eighth district conven- i oldest citizen and one of the most
tion will be named. Mr. Florence ' highly esteemed women of the com
and other leading republicans are jmunity, celebrated her 90th birthday
strongly in favor of holding tne con-' Sunday at the home of her son, for
vention here, and it is probable that ! mer Circuit Clerk William B. Mason,
a delegation from the local Commer- j of this city. Many were the expres
cial Club and other interests will go sions of love and esteem extended
before the committee Thursday and this highly revered woman, various
invite the holding of the convention tokens and gifts attesting to her pop
here, .ularity. She was born at Lancaster
When the convention is held, two on January 23, 1820, and united with
only names suggested for this honor she now resides. She was, before
are those of W. C. Black, of Madi- marriage, a Miss Logan, of that, fa
son county, and Ludlow F. Petty, of mous pioneer stock for which Lo
Shelby county; both among tne test gan's Fort, the first Kentucky set
known republican leaders in the(tlement of this section, was named,
state. It is expected, of course,! Bastin Goff.
that the convention will instruct its
,ioWnfc .v. -W fnr TTa.rWV -fnr t
irresianmiHnminm
has already been agreed upon by the
big guns of the party.
Thfi rmintv chairmen w..n ron-nns '
r x-
the Eighth district committee which
meets here Thursday and who are ex
pected to be here, are:
Lincoln Dr. R. L. Davison.
Boyle N. K. Tunis.
Garrard Dr Montgomery.
Madison W. C. Black.
Casey Lum Combest.
Adair Wm. Coffey.
Jessamine Dave Knobel.
Shelby Mike Hughes.
Spencer E. B. Stratton.
Anderson Lloyd Simpson.
Mrs. T. A. Rice went to New Cas
tle Tuesday morning to mane a visit
to Mrs. Kirby Bourne
Mothers! Give. Child
"Syrup of Figs" If
Tonguexls Coated
If
Cross, Feverish, Sick, Bilious,
Clean Little Liver and
Bowels.
Children love this "fruit laxative,"
and nothing else cleanses the tender
stomach, liver and bowels so nicely.
A child simply will not stop play
ing to empty bowels and the result
is, they become tightly clogged wuh
waste, liver trets sluscish. stomaih
sours, then your little one becomes
cross, half-sick, feverish, don't cat
sleep or act naturally, breath is bad,
system full of cold, has sore throat,
stomach-ache "or diarrhoea. Listen,
Mother! See if tongue is coated, then
give a teaspooniui ot "uaniornia
Syrup of Figs," and in a few hours
all the constipated waste, sour bile
and lindifest.ed fond nasses out of
th Rvfitam. and vnn have a well.
playful child again. jJudSe Lewis L- Walker and Green
Millions, of mothers give "Califor-! Clay Walker, surprised his friends by
nia Syrup of Figs" because it is per- marrying in Jeffersonville, Ind., last
fectly harmless; children love it, andiweek about the same time that his
it never fails to act on the stomach, , brother, the County Attorney of
liver and bowels. Garrard, was also wedded. Mr.
Ask your druggist for a 50-cent : Walker's bride was Miss Lena Mat
bottle of "California Syrup of Figs," tingly, said to be a charming young
which has full directions for babies, lady of the Falls City. Mr. Walker
children of all ages and for grown- has been practicing law in Louisville
ups plainly printed on the bottle. , for a year ago and has a bright fu
Beware of counterfeits sold here, i ture before him His many friends
Get the genuine, made by "Califor-, back in-this section, will extend con-
nia J?'ie Svrun Uomnanv." Keiuse
any other kind with contempt.
The Stanford Credit Men's Asso- J to do some building at Junction City.
ciation meets tonight at 7 o'clock. All It has taken an option on the G. W.
members are urged to be present. (Pipes property for a' period of three
months, within which time,, it is ex-
Quite a lot -jof interesting news pected that, its, plans will have mat
was crowded over to Friday's paper, ured. .
BIG DAY AT
LANCASTER
Thousands See Aged Negro Man
Draw Auto Other Live News
from Neighboring County
Lancaster, Jan. 24.
Lancaster's merchants and busi
ness men held here on Saturday, what
might be designated as an "Automo-
bile Contes't," in which a Ford ma
chine, a set of furniture, a set of
dishes, astove, and many other house-
nol(i articles, as well as awards of
monev were &lven to tne fortunate
holders of certain tickets which had
been given out to custoumers upon
the purchases of goods and various
commodities. "Uncle Buss" Leavell,
an aged Negro, came in as first win
ner, having on his ticket the number
j that drew the automobile. He im-
mediately sold it at auction to John
Hicks for $391. The streets were
fairly crowded with people, not only
from all over Garrard county, but
from adjoining counties, and even
, - - -
Miss Mamie Bastm, only daugk
business man oi ni", wa mx-
ried on Saturday, at high noon, to
Mr. Robert Goff, of Cincinnati, the
ceremony beingperformed at the res
idence of the bride's parents, Rev. C.
S. Ellis, Baptist minister from Paint
Lick, officiating. The nuptial affair
was very quiet, with only immediate
members of the family, present, on
account of a recent bereavement.
Immediately after the marriage, the
couple, left for an Eastern trip, to
be "at home" in a few weeks in the
Queen City.
MULES DRAGGY AT LANCASTER
T.nnpnsfpr rnnrt. Mondav drew a bie
crowd, notwithstanding the fact that
one of the largest throngs in its his
tory was in the capital of Garrard the
Saturday before at the automobile
drawing. Trading was only fair on
Monday, however. There was prac
tically no cattle market, only one
bunch of calves being in the pens and
were sold by Oatts & Robinson, to
Mart Bogie. There were quite a lot
of mules offered, however, and deals
in hybrids were about the only stock
sales of any consequence made. Dick
Gentry, of Danville, bought a half
dozen or so, paying from $125 up to
near $175 according to the grade of
the animal. The top price of the day
was $215 paid for a Lincoln county
animal. W. B. Burton picked up a
I few likely looking animals at an av-
erage of about $14u, and others were
buying in small quantitties. The mule
market was draggy all day, as owners
of mules are holding them for top
j prices since the market has been go-
, s "P
MATTINGLY WALKER.
Will Walker, a younger brother of
, Kiatuiawuua,
The Q. & C. railroad is preparing
DAVID SCOTT
IS NO MORE
Leading Farmer, Mason and Christian
of Goshen Section, Answers
' Final Summons.
Another splendid old citizen of
Lincoln county, was called to the re
ward of thejfaithful when the spirit
oi uavid . gcott, one ot the most
prominent farmers of the county, a
life-long resident of the Goshen
neighborhood,"! north of town, passed
over the rivet; Saturday night after
a protracteHillness of a complication
of troubles. Mr. Scott was 70 years
of age, and -tired nature, after a gal
lant fight, was unable longer to re
sist the encroachment of time, and
the fine old-j gentleman peacefully
passed over ttftthat bourn from which
11V WAV.AWA W,A AVVUAlld
Mr. Scott .was a splendid citizen in
every meaning of the word, public
spirited, kind and charitable, a de
voted husb'andYand father and the
kind of men;, who. are the backbone
of the state. He was a pioneer mem
ber of the', Goshen Christian church,
helped to organize and build it, and
was ever faithful in attendance up
on its services. 'He was also a mem
ber of that great-fraternal organiza
tion, the "Masonic order, being a mem
ber of the) Preachersville lodge.
In Addition fo-a host of friends
for whoever knewthis kindly old gen
tleman, was his frjend he leaves be
hind to mourn, a loving wife, who
before her marriage was a Miss Sal
lie Boone a sister of Mrs. Mary
Penny, of "Stanford, and H. B. Boone,
of the county; and four sons and a measure. Petitions are being circu
daughter, he 4303s being Messrs. Ed- iated all over the county, it is under
ward G. Scott&pf Covington, andlStood, asking Mr. Gooch to vote for
Walter, Albergfcd- Harry Scott, of the bill, and it is pointed out that in
this county, We daughter, Miss j the democratic primary last August,
Ellen Scott. "3 the man who was running as the
r uneraj" services were conaucteu
Monday afternoonikt " two o'clock,
Dunai peing in tne uosnen cemetery.
After a short scriptural -reading by
Mr. J. C3 McCIary, of this city, the t the question submitted to a vote in
Masons took charge of the ceremo- Kentucky say that Mr. Gooch's Con
nies andTperformed 'their beautiful J stituency are clearly in favor of his
and solelfcn rites-Jover. the bier of votiner to submit the Question to a
1"'- liilVtlMfir Bon. J. N.
of
for'the'Prcfiersyille and Stanford.
Masons who turned out in goodly !
numbers to pay this last tribute of j
respect.
ANOTHER NOBLE WOMAN GONE
Mrs. Eliza Wilmot, wife of James
I. Wilmot, one of the most promi
nent fanners of the Hubble section
of the county, died at their home
Friday afternoon at one o'clock, and
the remains were interred in Buffalo
Springs Cemetery here Sunday at
.noon, after services at the home con
ducted by Rev. F. M. Tinder of the
Lancaster Christian church, assisted
by Rev. D. M. Walker, of the Stan-
ford Christian Church.
Mrs. Wilmot had been ill but a
short time. She was stricken with a
paralytic stroke about a week ago
on the same day that the funeral of
Mrs. W. H. Underwood, Mr. Wilmot's
sister, was held. Doath was due di
rectly to hemorrhage of the brain
and paralysis. The deceased was in
her 52nd year and had lived all of her
life in Lincoln county. Before her
marriage she was a Miss Gooch, a
daughter of the late John M. Gooch,
and she was a first cousin of Rep
resentative Wv. G. Gooch, now in
the legislature at Frankfort.
Beside sher devoted husband, sheis
survived by nine children, five girls
and four boys? who have sympa'thy
of a great many friends in the loss
of their loving mother. Mrs. WilmoJ;
had been a life-long member of the
Christian church, and was a splendid,
consecrated Christen woman in
every way. She delighted in doing
good to those about her, and will be
sadly missed from the family fire
side and in the community where she
had lived so long and was so beloved.
The pallbearers at the funeral Avere
Messrs. J. H. Dalton, R. L. Hubble,
L. P. Nunnelley, Bowen Gover. Rich
ard Hester and J. C. Eubanks.
NEPHEW OF MRS. FOX DIES, TOO
Will Newell, son of Bowen Newell,
-who died at his farm in Pulaski
about a week or ten days ago, 'died
at his home near Somerset Thurs
day. Several weeks ago, the young
Mr. Newell had an arm torn off in a
corn shredder, and he had been Very
low ever since. He .was a nephew of
Mrs. Jesse vFox, of this county, and
was a young man with many warm
friends, and had a bright future be-1
fore him. Besides the mother, sev
eral sisters survive. Following" the
death of the father, and only a few
months before the grandmother, this
death is in a greater degree of sad
ness. The funeral was conducted
tMgiftSfMMJ
iHHiUmLsr'
Sunday morning by Rev. Talbot of
the Presbyterian church,' and the
body laid to rest in the Somerset
cemetery. -
GEORGE DYEHOUSE DEAD
George Dyehouse, aged 66 years,
passed away last Wednesday, Janu
ary 19th at the home of his daugh
ter, Mrs. D. C. Dyehouse in Miller
addition, after a long illness of a
complication of troubles. Mr. Dye
house was esteemed and respected
by all who knew him. He was a faith
ful Christian, a member of the Ephe-
sus Baptist church since early man
hood, and an upright and honorable
citizen in every way. A wide circle
of friends and loved ones and rela
tives will mourn that he is no more.
Funeral services were conducted at
the grave in Buffalo Springs ceme
tery by J. C. McClary. His wife,
and one daughter, who married D. C.
, Dyehouse, survive in addition to two
sisters, Mesdames J. W. Blankenship
and Martin Harp, and a brother, Wm.
Dyehouse, all of whom have the sin
cere sympathy of all in their hour of
bereavement.
SIGNING STATE-WIDE PETITION
All Over County Asking Representa
tive Gooch to Vote For It.
Representative W. G. Gooch was
home from Frankfort, and on the
streets here Saturday. A number of
those interested, sought his views on
the question of submitting the state
wide prohibition question to a vote
of the people, but it is understood
that they got little satisfaction or as
surance that he will vote for such a
state-wide candidate for governor,
carried the county over the man who
was said to Tip. nnnnspd to it. and for
this reason, those who want to see
vote of the people." Mr. Gooch says
that so far as he can at, nresent see
3fcitm0jfrii-!ie-KvirinoHntrodnee-a -sin
gle bill at the present session. The
state-wide bill will come up in the
senate Tuesday or Wednesday, anc,
of course, Senator Montgomery, of
this district, will vote for It.
No Indigestion, Gas
Or Stomach Misery
In Five Minutes
"Pape's Diapepsin" For Sour, Acid
Stomach, Heartburn,
Dyspepsia
Time it! In five minutes all stom
ach distress will go. No indigestion,
heart-burn, sourness or belching of
gas, acid, or eructacions of undigest
ed food, no dizziness, bloating, foul
or headache.
Pape's Diapepsin is noted for its
speed in regulating upset stomachs.
It is the surest, quickest and most
certain indigestion remedy in the
whole world, and besides it is harm
less. Millions of men and women now
eat their favorite foods without fear
they know Pape's Diapepsin will
save them from any stomach misery.
Please, for your sake, get a larje
fifty-cent case of Pape's Diapepsin
from any drug store and put your
stomach right. Don't keep on beihj;
miserable life is too short you
are not here long, so make your stay
agreeable. Eat what you like and
digest it; enjoy it, without dread of
rebellion in the stomach.
Pape's Diapepsin belongs in your
home anyway. Should one of your
family eat something which don't
agree with th'em, or in case of an
attack of indigestion, dyspepsia, gast
ritis or stomach derangement at day
time or during the night, it is handy
to give the quickest, surest relief
known.
Mrs. Elsie Wilson, 80, of Pineville,
burned to death last week wherr her
clothing caught fire from an open
grate,.
BAD COLD QUICKLY BROKEN UP
Mrs. Martha Wilcox, Gowanda, N.
Y., writes: "I first used Chamber
lain's Cough Remedy about eight
years ago. At that time I had a
hard cold and coughed most of the
time. .It proved to be just what I
needed. It broke up the cold in a
few days, and the cough entirely dis
appeared. I have told many of my
friends of the good I received thru
using this medicine, and all who have
used it speak of it in the highest
terms." Obtainable everywhere. "
v
. 4
AUTO INJURES
OLD CITIZEN
Thos. J. Oaks Probably Fatally Hurt
When He Jumps in Front of
Elmer Anderson's Car.
Thomas J. Oaks, a well known old
citizen and union veteran, was seri
ously, if not fatally injured Monday
morning when in attempting to dodge
a buggy approaching him on the Crab
Orchard pike, near Rowland he jump
ed directly into the path of an au
tomobile driven by Elmer Anderson
son of H. . Anderson, of this city.
Mr. Oaks, who is 76 years of age,
has been very poor of hearing and
sight for a number of years, and ev
idently did not hear the car, which
had turned far to the right of the
road, in order to pass Mr. Oaks, as
young Anderson knew that the old
man could not see or hear well and
desired to give him plenty of room
in the middle of the road, down which
he was walking.
Young Anderson is greatly distress
ed at the unfortunate accident, from
which he is completely exonerated
of any fault by those who have in
vestigated the matter. He was driv
ing toward Rowland accompanied by
James H. Pcpples and a colored boy,
when ahead they saw Mr. Oaks com
ing toward them walking in the mid
dle of the road. Anderson sounded
his klaxon, and realizing Mr. Oaks'
infirmities of sight and hearing, pull
ed far to the right of the road, in
order to pass him without danger.
The auto's tracks at the place, show
that the young man had pulled as far
over to the right as he safely could.
Just as the car was about to pass
Mr. Oaks, a buggy came up behind
him. It is believed that he evidently
did not hear the auto but did hear
the buggy, which was about to pass
him on the other side, but over so as
to leave him plenty of room in the
middle of the road between the two
vehicles. Just as the buggy passed
him Mr. Oaks heard it, and gave a
leap out of the way, toward the auto
and directly into its path. It was
done so quickly that Anderson was
unable to stop the car, which struck
the unfortunate man a severe blow.
Mr. Popples and- Anderson . jumped
out and put Mr. Oaks into the car
and 'rushed him to the office of Drs.
Brown and Southard where an exam
ination showed that one leg was brok
en, several ribs were fractured, and
one it was feared had punctured a
lung, as he began spitting up blood.
He was also badly injured about the
face and head. As soon as his in
juries were dressed, he was removed
to his home on -Darst street, where
he is being given every attention pos
sible by his wife, children and phy
sicians. Mr. Oaks' age and the fact that
he has been in feeble health for some
time, militate against him, but he is
reported to be somewhat improved.
Mr. Oaks is one of the few Union
veterans left in this county and has
drawn a pension for a number of
years.
Elmer Anderson, who was driving
the car when it strucK tne aged man,
is a thoroughly experienced chaf
feur, and qperates cars at all times
out of his father's gararge here. It
was a Ford touring car which he was
driving when the accident occurred.
Young Anderson is a bridegroom of
only a few months, having married
the daughter of Representative W.
G. Gooch. He is a popular and well
liked young man. He regrets ex
ceedingly the unfortunate affair, but
declares that he did everything pos
sible" to give Mr. Oaks plenty of room
in which he is fully corroborated by
Mr. Pepples.
FOR SALE. 22 head of 3-year-old
mules; have been worked; sev
eral nice pairs in the bunch. C. C.
Gover, R. F. D. 2, Lancaster. 6-4p
SHIPPING OLD IRON.
W. B. Buchanan, who buys almost
anything that is sold, loaded two cars
with 165,000 pounds of old iron1 Fri
day and Saturday. He has been buy
ing it, a few pounds at a time, for
the past several rronths. He shipped
it to a Louisvil e firm which pays
him -S8 per ton on cars at Stanford.
No one had no idea that there was
that much old iron in Lincoln coun
ty. THE GIST OF IT.
"Last December I had a very se
vere cold and was nearly down sick
in bed. I bought two bottles of
Chamberlain's Cough Remedy and it
was only a very few days until I
was completely restored to health,"
writes O. J. Metcalf, Weatherby, Mo.
If you would know the value of this
remedy, ask anyone who has used it.
Obtainable .everywhere.
"
j
4-
t -
- ,
r
