BMBWBJjWMPBBBWMZ'Tl.Tiiil ti in mm i . i.imMLHn 'i iiwuuimwi'f WWWffWWWWMffBlffiiH.'''-" -r BBES-" MmWbbbB
BHBHBHBHBBBB-EIF'"'"t v - " ...Tgt "- "s- J- ' il v 'HfVH
H ( BHHH1
Journal Ififcla.. 'H
B hbh
Tbo successful business lnstltu- H $ 4I Mfm) d '-'H 'H.'fr 1 1 & d& -' Start tho New Year out right by , '
B : tlons of Logan, advortlso In The Lo- Jt' JlMl ' 3 U IJB J jj, flP'l ,k jLP iW-JlP A I. JL' fK II 8UbsorlblS for tho leading count ' H
B Ban Republican. Take a hint, jf LJ7 F "H" W paper, $ 3. 00 per year by mall. H
EIGHT PAGES LOGAN, CACHE COUNTY, UTAH TUESDAY JANUARY 25 1916 FOURTEENTH YEAR '
I STATEMENT BY
I PRESJVIDTSOE
BB Makes Clear His Position With Re
B spect to His Election to the
HB Presidency of U, of U.
HH Upon my return from Monroe
H where I Have been in attendance at
B the Southern Utah Farmers' Roundup
Hi and Housekeepers Conference, I find
B Tnuch speculation concerning my
BK election to tho Presidency of tho
BK University of Utoh. As yet I know
BS of tho election only through tho news
papers. It Is probable, though not
Bl definitely settled, that, when the no-
HM tlco of my o'ectlon reaches me, I
B Bhall accept the posltjon. If I do so,
BJ it is because I shall then bo convinced
HI that I can In the new position serve
BJ my Stale and tho people better than
BS In the position which I now hold, and
BJ not becauso I am In tho slightest do-
Bl greo dlssatlslled with the work, asso-
HI clatlons or splendid promise of the
BJj Utah Agricultural College.
Bl Thcro can be no broader education-
BJ nl field than that occupied by the
Bl Collego for it stands unequivocally
Bl for a literal education for all the peo-
BJ pic, and tho full use of all knowledge
HJ for the good of man, in whatever
BJ human activity. Tho Agricultural
BJ Colleges have always been among
BJ tho standard bearers of educational
J progress.
BJ Wherever I go I shall bo a friend
BJ and defender of tho Utah Agrlcultur-
H al College, tho Institution which I
BJ bavo helped to build during a period
BJ of 22 years, nearly nil tho years of
HJ my maturo ltfo. If thero is any talk
BJ of "consolidation," I have not heard
BJ It. When I assumed the Presidency
BJ of tho Collego I felt that the "con-
BJ solldatlon" question was not one for
BJ school teachers to meddle with, and
HJ I resolutely determined to havo no-
BJ thing to do with a matter that elenr-
BJ ly should bo settled' by tho taxpay-
BJ crs. If I go to tho University of
HJ Utah, It will bo with tho samo deter-
mlnatlon. As long as tho College and
the University obey tho laws of the
J stato and work lgorously to magnify"
BJ their respective fields, there win bo
HJ little likelihood in my opinion of tho
HJ consolidation question arising ngalu
BJ In Utah. I havo likewise held and
BJ do now hold that questions of poll-
BJ tics and religion must be excluded
HJ from our Stato educational lnstltu
BJ tions nnd I bavo attempted to en
BJ forco this -view. Tho efllclent school
BJ teacher Is tho ono who keeps busy
BJ in the class room and laboratory.
BJ In life I can expect no greater snt
BJ Isfactlon and Joy than I hao had in
J helping to iqlve the great problems,
BJ agricultural, educational and others,
BJ that have occupied tho attention of
HJ the Utah Agricultural College. Nor
BJ can I hope for hotter support than
BJ has been given mo by students, fnc
BJ ulty and trustees of the College.
BJ Neither can I iosslbly glvo moro ful
HJ ly t niy strength nnd tlmo and pow
i BJ ers to any institution or locality than
l HJ 'lavo Biven for nearly a quarter of
BJ a century to tho Utah Agricultural
I BJ Collego anj to Logan and Cache
HJ county,
j BJ If I leave tho Collego and Logan,
i 'BJ my life long home, it will bo with a
) HJ heavy henrt, nnd only" becnuso I con
f HJ Kclentlously bellovo that It may bo
j BJ for tho best interest of tho State. My
r HJ friends nnd nil who know mo will
BJ nt question tho sincerity of my mo
j BJ tlvcs. JOHN A. WIDTSOB.
; I FUNERAL HELD
j I AT PARADISE
0 BJ Ethan Allen Burled In Town of His
BJ Birth. Parents Part With Third
r BJ Grown Child
I, BJ Paradise, Jan. 20. At 1 o'clock
lt HJ n January 20 tho funorni services
c ij,vcro hel(1 ,n tll P""lIso ward meet
jt JH'nB nouso oyor tho roraalns of Ethan
SMAUcn, tho young man who died at
U Logan, January 17 at tho home of
g BJ bis grandparents Mr, and Mrs. Snui
a! BJ uei Holbrook.
BJ Tho house was well filled with
l0 BJ sympathetic relatives and friends of
io H tlie yung man and Ills family. Thoy
were nil residents of, this ward until
e. 'ur, years ago when they movod to
3g BJIJbo to mako their homo thoro. Tho
HJww Is extra hard on Ilrothor and
of Blslstor Allen, as thlsis the third
grown child they haVe been called to
ran with. They have tho sympathy
lot 'he entire community Vnthli their
H
FATHER GOES TO SCHOOL NOW
.
IC1 Ism O "JUTflH FARM V
Sonnie had a little dad; some fleece he had and
dough; son learned so much at the Farm School
that father went also. y
Farm Convention " j
Program at U. A. C.
Tuesday and Wednesday
TUESDAY, JANUARY 25
10 to 12 A. M. Practical Courses
Butter Making, Caro of the Cream .- Chemistry llulldlng
"Poultry Management, Breeds and Methods of Selection Room 39
Veterinary Practice, Disinfectants and Their Uso Itoom ITT
Potato and Grain Diseases, Tho Stinking Smut and Us Control.. Room 1S2
Karm Dlncksmlthlng nud Horseshoeing, Selection of Tools Shops
Farm Carpentry, Work Room, Size, Work Rench Shops
Automobile Care and Repair, Kinds nud Classes ". Shops
2:00 P. M. Chapel
Soil Formation Prof. William Peterson
Maintaining Soil Fertility Dr. P. S. Jlarrls
Somo Factors In Farm Business a. Dr. R. J. Evans
4 to 5 P. M. Exhibits
7:30 P. M. Conjoint
Music, under tho direction of Prof. Georgo W, Thatcher.
The Relation of Banker and Farmer.... Mr. C. R. Marcusson, of Price
Rural Organization as a Basis for Rural Credit.. Hon. Frank B. Stephens
of Salt Lako City
WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 26
9 to 10 A. M. Exhibits.
10 to 12 A. M. Practical Courses
Butter Making, Methods of Cream Separation Chemistry Building
Poultry Management, Housing and Sanitation Room 39
Veterinary Practlco, Treating Wounds Room 177
Potato and Grain Diseases, Tho Loose Smut and Its Control ....Room 182
Farm Blacksmlthlng und Horseshoeing, Forago Work, Making Hook nnd
Clevis Slll'3
Tarm Carpontry, Necessary Tools and How to Sharpen .....'. Shops
Automobllo Care nnd Repair, Engine and Transmission Shops
2:00 P. M.
What Farms Pay Best nnd Why Mr. E. B. Brossard
Farmers' Cooperatlo Insurance Hon. W. S. Hanson
Box Elder County
Factors in Successful Farming Mr. David A. Smith
Salt Lako County
4:00 P. M. Conjoint, Chapel.
Plays, undor tho direction of Prof. Frank n. Arnold.
sad bereavement.
The services began by tho choir
singing, Shall Wo Meet Beyond tho
River. Prayer was offered by Joseph
II. Obray. Tho choir furthor Bang
Wanted On tho Other Side.
Consoling romarks woro mado by
tho following: J. P. James, W. J.
Willis, R. P. Bradshaw, O. E. 01
sen, Dlshop Merkloy of Idaho, and
closing "remarks by Bishop P. O.
Hansen, all of whom boro high trib
utes to tho deceased. Each ono spoke
of bis faith in tho gospel,
Durine tho services Llzzlo Lomon
nnd Lizzlo RIchraan sang a duet en
titled, My Father Knows. Tho bene
diction was pronounced by P.. O.
Hansen. Remains were Interred iu
the 'Paradise cemetery .i "
t
t
SPELLING IN
COUNTY SCHOOL
In order to stimulate moro Interest
In good spelling Supt. Larsen arrang
ed a spelling contest for tho seventh
and eighth grades of tho county
schools in connection with tho roccnt
mldyoar examinations. A list of one
hundred words wero selected by Supt
Larson for the test.
The words cannot be classed as
easy by any moons and a very com
mendable showing is mado by the
schools-. j " c"t
REGISTRATION
LARGE AT U. A.
VG. ROUND-UP
Eighty Men and Flfty-nlne Women
t Take Advantage of Annual School
For Farmers and Housewives
Thcro was n lino representation of
fnrmers and housewives In nttendanco
al tbo opening of tho nnnunl Fnrm
Pnnvpnflnn nnd Hni'Roknonora Pnn.
ferenco nt tho Utah Agricultural Col
lego yesterday. Eighty men register
ed for the various courses nt tho
farm convention Pnd flfty-nlno wom
en for tho housoKccpoi-s conference.
President John A. WldtBoo wel
comed tho convention nttendanco nnd
a responso In behalf of Cacho county
was mado by E. O. Reese and In be
half of Weber county by David O.
McKay. Mrs. J. C. Wheelon of Box
Elder county gave a responso In bo
half of tho women.
Tho outlook for a iargo nttendanco
was very bright yesterday consider
ing tho condition of tho weather.
-
WESTON MINERS
SHIPPING. CAR
LOAD OF ORE
Weston, Jnn. 24. James H. Ko
foed reports his mlno In a flourishing
condition. Ho hasi about twenty men
tit work ovory day now and will ship
u car of oro In about ton days. Aft
er tho first car ia loaded and ship
pod, thoy will bo loading ono car n
week thereafter. If reports are truo
vo wil lhavo a mining town in West
on canyon. Sovornl mining compa
nies havo been organized and thoy
nro busy digging gold from tho
ground.
Grain is starting to movo ngaln;
tho prices nro good and farmers aro
taking advantage of tho good roads
und aro disposing of their wheat.
Dr. Jlcckstrom is out again after
six weoks in bed with rheumatism.
Each school was pitted against an
othor school of llko slzo. Tho entlro
number enrolled In each grade took
tho test. Tho following shows tho
nverago porcent attained by oach
grado as a whole and tho average of
tho two gradoo combined:
Avon Class Average, seventh, 67;
v (Continued fa Pago Eight)
NEW TRUSTEE
AT COLLEGE
MINTED
Salt Lake, Jnn. 21. Mrs. Annlo
K. Hard, Saturday was appointed n
trustee of tho Agricultural Co'lego
at Logan, replacing Mrs. Hazel Love
Dmiford, who has resigned
Mrs. Hnrdy was born In Salt Lake
tho daughter of John Moburn Kny,
who coined tho first money over used
In tho Stato of Utah, nnd tho first
double eagles ever used In tho Unit
ed States'. Her father was considered
tho best vocalist of his time In Utah
and ho took the lending part In tho
first dinmatlc production of noto In
this stato.
Mrs. Hardy attended tho Univers
ity of Descret, now tho University
of Utah, under tho regency of Pres
ident John R. Park nnd was gradu
ated In tho normal course.
Sho begnn teaching with Dr. Karl
G. Maesor nnd nl60 with Dr. Milton
H. Hnrdy In tho grndes nnd contin
ued in tho Twelfth ward school with
J. B. Moreton.
Sho taught In tho Eighteenth ward
seminary when Horace II. Cummlnps
and C. M. Mumford wero In charge
there.
Regarding her appointment, Mrs.
Hnrdy Inst night sold: "I havo been
an earnest ctudent In nil educational
work, nnd trust I may be; of somo
service to the Stato of Utah In my
new post."
Mrs. Hardy Is tho mother of R.
tC. Hardy, district mannger or tho
Western Stato Life Insurance Com
pany; John K. Hardy, secretary to
Gov. Wllllnm Spry, nnd K. D. Hnr
dy, cnshler of tho Homo Savings &
Trust Company.
NEW IMPLEMENT
CONCERN STRONG
COMBINATION
Articles of Barber Vehicle and Ma
chine Co., to Be Filed With
Following tho announcement that
tho Sidney Stevens Implement Com
pany had been leased by H. P. Bar
ber and nssoclntes, comes tho nows
that Manager Ola Sonno of tho Studo
baker Brothers in this city, James
R. Thomas for years head salesman
for tho Consolidated Wagon and
Muchlno Company nnd Charles Carl
son who has been assolcnted with
tho Sidney Stevens Implement Com
pany, nro to Join a partnership with
Mr. Barber In the conduct of tho
now business. As has previously
been stated theso people will hnndlo
tho International Harvester Company
McCormlck lino of fnrm equipment
o... ttn rVlvn- ll,in nt lllmift. The
Him i w.,w .... w. .
now concern will take hold of tho
business nbout February 1st.
Articles of Incorporation nro being
proparcd and will bo filed In a few
days, giving tho name of tho new
corporation as Barber Vehicle &
Machine Company.
The capital stock of tho new con
cern wil) bo 110,000.00 with tho fol
lowing officers: II. P. Darbcr, presi
dent and general mnnager, O. A
Sonno, 1st vlco president; Llonol Far
rol, 2nd vlco president; James R.
Thomas, Secretary and Treasurer;
and Charles Carlson with tho nbovo
will form tho board of directors.
This should bo a strong combin
ation nnd as all the abovo ijentlemen
nro well known In Cncho Valley, and
havo been connected with tho Imple
ment business for a numbor of years,
thoy aro prepared to meet nil tho re
quirements needed In n vchlclo nnd
machine business. All theso gontlo
men aro wldly known in this suction
of tho stato, wo aro euro they
will commend themselves to tho
farmors and that thoy will ho widely
patronlzod in their new venture
A MOTTO ON MY WALL
Thoro'a a rulo In Wo to guldo you,
If you seek prosperity;
Never place your wlshbono
Whcro your backbone ought to bo.
AMALGAMATED
SUGAR COMPANY
GIVES PRIZES j
P. M. Williamson nnd Levi Cooper',-' BHH1
of Wollsvllle Get the i H
Money H
At tho last Cnchc County Fair, thok Hj
Amalgamated Sugnr Company offered B
n cash pii of $ir for tho best llvo HBBJ
aero patch of beets and $10 for thoi B
best ono aero patch of beets. SaniF' HBH
pies of said patches wero on oxhlht-jv
tlon nt tho fnlr nnd tho Judging of Hj
tho beets' wns dono according to tho j
following Bcoro: &
Sugar 25 per cent; purity 20 porf !j H
cent; sugnr per ncro 20 per cent';. ) HBH
tounago 20 per cent; and slzo nud.- HBB
shape 15' per cent. ,' 1 jH
As tho number of samples of becU HHH
en exhibition at the fnlr did not) coi'uT ' H
ply with tho itiles, tho promlum fori). i H
slzo and shape did not cuter luto.thej" j
scoring. .,3 i H
Tho boots wero nnnlyscd by Prof: I I '
C. T. Hirst, under tho direction of ,' l H
Dr. J. E. Groaes of tho Utah As-,, i
rlculturni, Collego. 1 1 jHH
Following nro tho results of tho, j j HH
sugar beet contest at tho Cacho Conn' H
ty Fair, 1915: ' it B
Five Acre Patch . . j. ;S HBH
II . and A. Woodward, sugar, lT.G; ill H
purity, S4.9; tonnage, S0.0; sugat' HH
per aero, 1.23 tons; premium, none; .,H
per cent, nono. l HH
T. S. Bradshaw, sugar 17. C; pur U hH
It j- 82.1; tonnage 85.0; sugar Sey? -iHHb
ncro 1.31 tono; promlum, nonojVperr i JH
cent, 25. I HH
P. M. Williamson, sugar 17.4; pur-i 1
Ity 85.9; tonnago 91.25; sugar pifc I 'Hfl
ncrc 1.3C tono; promlum, nono; per' 1 V'jH
cent 40. jiBBl
S. E. Lamb, sugar 14.0; purity Lfll
78.2; tonnago 107.5; sugar por acre, !v9
1.17 tons; premium, nono; per cent 'Hj
W. E. Nyman, sugar 14.0; purity, I HH
70.4; tonnago 92.58;. sugar per acrc,, V, iHH
.997 tons; premium, nono; per cent ?HHHl
nono. Total 85 per cent. n HH
P M. Williamson, of Wellsvlllo, is ' :
tho winner of tho $15 ensh prize. !j '. H
One Acre Patch J f 'H
Fiancls Nelson, Ugnr 14. C; purity j j'
7fl 53; tonnago IS 8; sugnr Por aero I HH
.967 tons; premium, nono; por cent ' 'HH
('BBJ
80.2; tounago 21.0; sugar por aero ij HH
1.31 tons; premium, nono; per cent 'ri kHHH
Levi Cooper of Wellsvlllo Is tho H lHH
winner of tho $10 cash prlzo. HH
Tho beets for tho year 1914 wero i' IhHH
far better than last year, In fact tho H
ofllclals of tho Sugar Company Btato HBH
that tho year 1914 was tho best ynar 'j H
for beets In tho history of tho fnc- i H
tory. The sugar, purity, tonnago, ' H
und sugnr per aero, wero exception- H, HH
ally high. BliBl
HAPPENINGS I
AT MENDON. I
Mention, Jan. 24 On Monday ovo- , B B
nlng Inst Tho Gloria Fe Club gavo a Pl'l
party for Mrs. Jack Larsen who Is t j'H
leaving town. Those present worer' liIitHJ
Mr. nnd Mrs. J. A. Gardner, Mr7 -f jHJ
nnd Mrs. J. H. Watkins Jr., MrtJ fl j HJ
and Mrs. Alma Baker, Mr. and Mrs M j H
Eddie Watkins, Mr. and Mrs.. David jiff HJ
Bakor, Mr. and Mrs. Nopul Soron- jl ' I
sen. p fljj iH
Tho stork visited tho honrn of Mr illl'JI
and Mrs. C. C. Watkins and left tjfllllM
thorn a baby girl. Mother und baboi ijlP vJ
nro doing nicely. Hi W HJ
Tho basketball gamo between ths Sfi'H
n. Y. C. and Mendon teams on Prl- uI1b1
day was a fine game. The final scoro j t HJ
was S3 to 40, in favor of tho Mention ffl'I'B
team. Thero wan a danco nftor the pjltfll
gamo which was a grand success. Ijjl 'fl
On Wodnesday evening tho Men- jjgj A H
don basketball team Played In Wells ijli Hk
vlllo and won tho gamo thero also: lif( ftHBB
This wa8 tho first gamo thoy had LlHl
played this season. fg gH
On Thursday evening tho Mendonf lilil
choir hold a social and danco. in" G M SJ
tho early part of tlie evening tho,. Ir'19
following program was rendered; , kniBJ
Speech of Welcome . ' Sj(
... by tho Leader, Isaac Soronson K KH
Piano Solo ......... Ethel SoVenjcu' ! fi
Stump Speech W. x-!92KS5SSf jf jf H
Mandojln 'and Guitar SeIect,lojJP It j jW
. . ' ' sKJhB
(Comtlnued on Pe BUti yA, ' fj
bkjbHhHHHhH
VI f '
