THE BARBIE DAILY TIMES
VOL. XIX NO. 266,
ISAURK, VERMONT, TUESDAY, JANUARY 23, 191G.
TRICE, ONE CENT.
FRENCH ATTACK
BY AIR DEADLY
Many Killed and Injured in
Serbian Towns Held by
Central Powers
till suspicious, there is no doubt that
general opposition to th measure haa
diminished enormously since its intro-,
duction and tlmt the feeling of thd
country is strongly with tlio govern
ment.
Mr. Bonnr Law, in his speech wind
ing up the debate, remarked on tliu won
derful change since the first reading of
flu 1,111 k.. ...... ., .....
miM twtween thoe who thought timt Nicholas of Montenegro and
11 went not far raouzh and those who
believed it went too fur.
FLEEING KING
NOW IN FRANCE
Royal Family Reach
Lyons
13 AEROPLANES LOST IN A MONTH.
16 AEROPLANES
WERE IN THE RAID
British Sustained Serious Setback, It Is
Admitted.
London, Jan. 25. Harold J. Te'nnant, i
parliamentary under-secrctary for war,
announced in the Holme of Commons,
yesterday afternoon that in the course of
SMALL MILITARY
ESCORT WITH THEM
Monastir and Gievgeli Ob- the last four weeks 13 British aeroplanes Party Came in Private Car
jects of Second Attack
Within Few Days
of King Victor Eman
uel of Italy
Lyons, France, Jan. 25. King Nicho-
werc lout on the western front and nine
lor ten Uerman machines brought to the
ground. '
The proposal was made in the House
of Commons yesterday that all the mem
bers of the House visit the front during
the linrlianii'ntjirir riwua anil that or.
V...H .m,b Kerb.'" -"-. i-yons, r ranee, ,
juunasiu hu w"i"t " irangerncnis De made tor tneir reception i. f . i.- ..,.,.,! .i u
Un towns aeia PV mo I iiuiiun-ui-vmi-i, iuc iuc ue- ymtn , T,.j,,,,a Unn liv Pr !.,.. I'efer
have been attacked by French aeroplanes. iiur that great benefit would accrue to irices Militia, and seven oiiieers and
The bombardment of Nancy, France, h' ea thWr -Idiers of the staff arrived .last
it.. J. mmawbA A 131 n A iromi m i . I c-iJiS Hi JVUiK mmui
" 1 " reP'y IO Emanuel's private car. They were es-
these happenings the military situation tion, while not altogether antagonistic, eortod tms hotel where King Nicholas
is virtually unchanged, , , thought it would prove too big an un- wife anJ two dailutergi 1. Xen-
On the principal fronts the great bulk " I L"' "Aia Vera, who arrived last w
i. . ? V ""VV. i""""""-" Tv atavimr.-'
DI imwa nUUlUIUS Jtuuiuu Iwhat enil it he llnnn if Ih. numhnn Ha. I
only aerial battles, big gun bombard- j sirous of making the trip would com
ments and occasional thrusts with small munteate their names.
. I....I, th. moMiMm fflr' -lennan supplemented ins an
Jorce8 U1 ...U7 nouncement of the loss in the last four
Of the deadlock". weeks of 13 British aeroolanes. bv the
The remnants ot montenegros troops, statement that in too same period the
driven from their own land, are falling British had employed 138 machines
wnue tne uermans naa used
MANY CONGRAULATIONS
JUDGE REFUSED
TO STOP CASE
Were Received by Mr, and Mrt. William
S. Cheney of Morrisville.
Morrisville, Jan. . 25. Mr. and Mrs.
Williiim 8. -Cheney observed their golden
wedding at their borne hero yesterday.
They received many messages of con
gratulations, iiieir son, 1 nomas U.
Cheney, with his wife Mr. and Mrs H. Defense of Hatch Wanted
two latter being sisters of Mr. Cheney,
were guests at dinner.
Mr. and Mrs. Cheney Lave always re
sided in town, and for 42 years in the
house which they now occupy. Mr. Che
ney's parents, Thomas and Sarah (Ste
vens) Cheney, celebrated their golden pT, A TT TTTRV WAQ TM.
of this town. Mrs. Cheney is a daughter
of S. L. and Lydia Ferrin Catefi.
Mr. Cheney for 50 years lias been en
gaged in the real estate, stock and farm
implement business, and although "8
years old, is still an active business man.
Both Mr. and Mrs. t heney preferred
to observe the day quietly with their
daughter, Miss Winnifred, who lives at
home, and with a few relatives.
Mr. Cheney represented Morrisville in
the legislature oi ibu;;. iiieir son,
Thomas C. Cheney, was speaker of the
House two terms and clerk of the House
for eight years. .
Jury Discharged in Cale
donia County Court
PROPERLY ATTENDED
State Rested Case and the
Defense Began Testi
mony To-day
veek, are
CAME TO BLOWS.
Former Secretary of Navy Von Meyer
and Former U. S. Minister Beale.
Washington, 1). C, Jan. 25. George
Von I Meyer, former secretary of the
navy, and iruxton Beale, former lint-
t Mates minister to l'ersia, had ft fistic
encounter in front of the fashionable
Metropolitan club here yesterday. Be
fore members of the elnh could intervene
Aerial battles, Mr. Tcnnant said, hadlthev came to blows
occurred over and behind the German Mr. Mcver was attenilwl hv llr rrr
to
One of the former
back through Albania, fighting as they rmans naa usea appro
. ... j . . niately 20. The number of British aero
go. Apparently tne mam planes which had crossed the German
army, as an organixed unit, has ceased to Mines was 1527, while 310 German ma
exist for cable reports speak of present I chines had crossed the British lines,
hostilities as guerilla warfare. It is be
wagea u. . Tt 2 17ir l1 ?' the German T. Grayson, naval aid and physician
ments of poorly equipped troops, bar- milchineg if hit planed down to their pni,ut wn-nn n,,.. f tL f..rr
assed by Austrian aeroplanes, wnicn are I own lines, which, the isntistt wore un-1 secretary's eves were slightly bruised
r . , I .1 kin J I, ..." '
attacking the Montenegrins witn ma
chine guns,
A report comes from Constantinople
that the famous German field marshal,
Baron Von Der Goltz, has been appoint
ed commander-in-chief of the Turkish
forces in the Caucasus. He will be op
posed by Grand Duke Nicholas, who, with
a reinforced Russian army, won recently
BAG STILL UNCLAIMED.
Which Supposed Geralffine Morrison of
St. Johnsbury Left in Boston Store.
St. Jolinsbury, Jan. 25. Sheriff W. H.
Worthen has received a letter from the
police of Boston stating that a girl au-
of
St. Johnsbury, Jan. 25. Much prog
ress .was made to-day in the case of
State vs. Harlow Hatch, charged with
manslaughter in the death of Sumner
Brown at this place last July, after an
attempt had been made by the defense "g 'ts rough nature.
yesterday afternoon to have the jury
CONCUSSION OF .
HItAIN FOLLOWED .
BLOW IN HASKETUALL
James S. Milne, Jr., of Bar re, Injured in
Game at Boston Saturday Night,
Has Not Recovered Consciousness.
65 ALARMS
. DURING YEAR
Were Responded to bv the
Barre Fire Department
A130.49
Boston, Jan. 25. Injuries received by
James S. Milne, jr., of Barre, Vt., of the I
College of Business Administration of
Boston university in Saturday's basket
ball gamo with the Tufts freshmen, have
developed into concussion of the brain.
He has been unconscious since Saturday
night and is not expected to live through
to-ilay. Early in the game ho was
thrown nirainst a wooden unriuht. lie I
1 l- A'.
lid not seem to he seriously Injured, UUtSlCle 01 J. W0 Ulg rireS.
however, and watched the rest of the Average Damace per
mi mn n I w. fli.-.nii... Iia uninnlainal fit I
niilcr. Jll LNC Willing It" .wiiij.iiiim
feeling sick, and soon after reaching his
boarding place in Brookline became un
conscious.
It is reported that the unexpected turn
in the apparently slight injuries of Milne
may cause basketball to be taboo at
Fire Was $141.14
Fire losses in Barre in 1915 reached an
aggregate rather above the average of
the past few years, according to the 11th
Boston university. The sport has never annual report of Chief C. U. Gladding,
been officially recognized at Tufts, ow- which is to be submitted to the board o(
aldermen to-night for approval prepara
tory to its appearance in the city's yea
book next month. The increase noted
able to do.
ANOTHER ARMED SHIP COMES.
but there was no discoloration. Mr.
Beale was bruised but not seriously.
Air. Meyer came here several days ago
to attend the congress of the National
As Result Austria is Likely to Take Up fcecunty league. Mr. Beale resides here.
Negotiations,
Washington,'!). C, Jan. 25. Arrival
OFFICIALS IN SQUABBLE.
of the Italian steamship Verona in Xew Goethals and Commander Edwards of
Vork yesterday with two guns mounted rr S Troons at Panama T)iRnnte
lat her stern, urobablv will result in the I
. nf vii-toH. which have hrnuffht Austro-Hunirarian trovernment takinsun 1 anama, Jan. Z.. Serious (liflcrcnces
ovb vvw.-.i- - o I c n - - "'Iff jy i i , . , .
Ksernm within ranee of his zuns. a Piomaiicauy witn tne Liuteu p(M - u"r' " T "
all the broad questions involved in the during the last few months lKtwem
bian arming of merchant ships for defensive Majr General W. Goethals, govvrnor of
purposes. ',e I'anama canal zone, and Brigadier
Paris. Tuesday. Jan. 25, The Serbia
i if i r; i: ; purposes.
iave ben attacked by a uad-onS oV H is indicated that Baron Erich General reee R. Edwards, command
v!Ile" ,,.aed Z ?" 11 - Zwiedinek, charge of the 1 Austro-Hun- W th. United States troops in the zone,
1 1 m ' ' l'"'"-'-'t -. w v ... . - t i , . . ... - . . I . -A . I. ..... I i. A " .. t, :
i, Ath.r,. ;nrrMn,mriCnt nf the Havaa ganan embassy Here, would intorm ids "y '"'e'
........ . ... I ..!! i ..f i when those two nfiicinla Much t.lv mm
KUI VI llIIKTUb Ul VUtS HIMVKi Ul " - r-
the Verona if ha -had not alreadv done tal according to (iovernor CJoethals,
so and that he would call upon Secre- Thpy sailed yesterday for the United
tary Lansing in the near future, to de- States. I
termine the uosition of the United " Governor Goethals said that criticisms
States in regard to permitting the liner alleged to have been made by General
to sail with the guns mounted. Edwards had reached the secretary 'of
It was freely predicted in Teutonic n thn' the secretary had request
diplomatic circles when the Italian ship e information. The governor replied,
Giuseppe -Verdi was allowed to sail rc. detailing the troubles.
centlv from New York with cuns mount
ed that a communication on tho sub- NEW PROPOSALS
ject was immediately to follow the nr
tigency telegraphs. It is estimated that
100 1 persons were killed or wounded at
Gievgoli. ' All the aeroplanes returnea
in safety. In some cases they covered
a distance of 190 miles.
CHASED GERMAN AEROPLANE.
Which Appeared Over Dover, England,
Yesterday Afternoon.
London, Jan. 25. A German aeroplane
passed over Dover at 4 o'clock yester
day afternoon. A British announcement
issued last night says it was engaged
by all the anti-craft guns and pursued
by two British machines.
DOUBLE ATTACK
ON NANCY, FRANCE
Long Range German Guns Poured in
Their Shells and Aeroplanes Dropped
Two Persons Were Injured.
Paris, Jan. 22. The city of Nancy was
ngain bombarded yesterday morning by
long range German guns and yesterday
afternoon a number ot bombs were
tiropped from German aeroplanes. Th.
damage from the bombardment was in
considerable and only two persons were
"wounded, while the aeroplane attack is
reported to have been without result.
It was reported in Paris on January
8 that during the three preceding days
nix persons were killed and ten were
wounded in Nancy as the result of the
oombardment of the city by German 15-
inch guns. Alarming rumors circulated
as to the havoc caused by the bombard
ment and consequent panic among the
inhabitants, but the prefect of the de
partment issued a circular discrediting
the rumors.
.TnniPM S. Urilnp 5r. nf Unrrp was
discharged on the ground that they had0 geVerely injured in a basketball game
not been properly taken care of by dep. in Boston last Saturday night, is very above was due to two fires where the
uty sheriffs, that they had been allowed 11 known in Barre. where he has lived ! : .... A, ...
,l.,.,r;H.. f !... : .-, !. i I . . - - ... - -- .. . , Jiiniunce was .mure mun
u. . .j, ...... , vj,,i,.,v . . in jjiuuj.., ine greater part oi ins lite, lie atlenaca .t ,m n-i i i , .
.Morrison, the I7-year-oll school girl, of them had been permitted to go alone Snauldimr hii'h school and later em-1 1 "guies uo m,i imucaie any
who disappeared from her home here a to the telephone and that they had been ployed in the Montpelier oflice of the retrogression in the standard of eflicion
week ago, naa been seen m a store in given liberty to read newspapers con- American Fidclitv romnanv. After leav- cv set bv the fir .lenartmnnt i.u
Boston She asked iniHsion to leave taining accounts of the trial. . tag that company he was employed for a tosses, apart from the two larger lire.
i-.i v.ic d.uiinuuicu. -...en i,,t(,v iw"inci,v jiow-iu,,; i time wiTti a Uissac.nusctts bonuini? com-1 ... .
last Monday momitig. afternoon following the recess over Sun- D.nv wit headnuarters, in Boston and mne were smaller than usual
From the description of the bag and day, the trial was delayed nearly an J gome tjnle ag0 i,e ontered Boston univer-1 Tnere wa8 a total of 65 alarms in tin
the contents the detracted parents of hour while Simonds, Searles and Graves, tjtr for a course in business administra- year, which is below the a vara ire of bus
the girl are confident that the girl was representing the respondent, were argu- tion. f fl fc f
,,... ,,.u,..v1.i. hv i"rt ,w .ovm mi- , -..r, -.-..j". j r.- ii ijiie ttiienuiiiir uauiaiiii? iiiffn scnooi i t
claimed. Stanton declined to consider the motion, he entererf into tl.1,.tiV onf hnaiaafinnHv Preceulng years.
The state concluded its testimony yes- and rlave(l in varir.ns hranol.ea nf Knnrt U alarms aggregated 23 for tlis
terday afternoon and this morning ex-1 iris mother and his brother Walter J"ear 17 coming in the first six monthe
cept for one usimportant witness, whoj5riine went to Boston Sunday nicht and anii tlie r,"raaining six in the period he-
will be introduced later. Drs. B. H. I big father, James S. Milne of the gran- twePn 'il'ne " an" J)t'c- l- Property
Stone and C. F. Whitney of the state ite manufacturing firm nf A din . Afilnn looses aggregated $u6,U0.4O and the to
laboratory of hygiene were the two wit-1 went to Boston last night. . tal amount of insurance paid on these
iwain-a tmiiutu 'luperiy en
dangered when the .total losses were in
volved is valued at $402,500.
Two fire losses in the year aggregated
$47,243.33. On the night of Feb. l!l the
George Straiton granite plant in the
SLID INTO IRON BRIDGE.
Traverse Was Upset and 15 Young Peo
ple Were Hurt or Shaken Up.
Lowell, Jan. 25. "vVhile 15 boy andlnesses last on the stand for the prosecu-
girls were coasting down a long MI in tion. They testified that the revolver APPEAL FOR DANBURY HATTERS.
this place at 10:30 last nicht. their with winch iirown was snot must nave
traverse ran into an iron bridge, upset- been hejd within from 18 to 25 inches of All Union Men Are Urged to Contribute
ung niu i:IB uu au me pas- v " r Que Hour's Wages,
seiners a severe s hak nc-nn. I -h marks on the clothing. Dr. Wlntney 6
Carl was the most' seriously injured re-1 repeated his previous testimony In accordance with instructions from south end was partially destroyed and
ceiving a cut on the left leg, a small I that one wound on Brown s temple must I tne !San francisco convention of the while the firemen showed marked c (li
eu t on the left side and a bruise over
the left eye. Dr. W, A. Young dressed
the wounds, and the. young mans con
dition is favorable to-day although he
is weak, from the Joes of blood.
TO CONTROL BLISTER RUST.
GERMAN ATTACK PREVENTED.
After Their Artillery Had Thrown 20,-
000 Shells.
Taris, via London, Jan. 25. The offi
cial communication issued last night
says:
'"In Belgium, near the mouth of the
Ys.T in the region of Nieuport, the army
carried out an extremely vkdent bom
bardment, in the course of which he
fired not fewer than twenty thousand
shells, according to our first reports.
"The German infantry attempted in
vain to attack but was prevented by
our curtain of fire and was not able to
net out from his trenches, with the ex
ception of a few groups which our fire
immediately dispersed."
PASSES THIRD READING.
There Was But Little Opposition to
Military Service Bill. '
London, Jan. 25. The military service
bill passed the third reading in the
House of tVimmons last night bv a rote
of 3.1 to Srt.
The bill was immediately wtit to tlie
Hmis f Lords and given its first read
ing. The oecund reading will lw taken
in the 1 1 (MM) of lnrU on V,iInr.ir,
aad Parliament will probably be pro
rc pried Friday. i
The fart tUat the minority acnt th i
lill was virtually only a
rival of another Italian ship similarly
armed.
It was authoritatively stated last
night that the Austro-Hungarian gov
ernment probably would inform the
United States that any armed ship en
countered by an ' Austrian submarine
would bo regarded as a warship and be
sunk without warning, reirardless of
who might happen to be alxiard. The
Giuseppe Verdi was allowed to sail aft
er the Italian government had given as
surance that the guns would not be used
for other than defensive purposes.
The belief prevails in certain official
circles that a communication from the
Austro-Hungarian government would re
suit in the United States determining
upon definite rults which would be ap
plicable to the changed conditions on
theueas, or would result inthe keeping
of American citizens off the ships that
are armed.
FROM GERMANY
WILL NOT TRAIL WILSON.
Bryan Will Stay in Florida Till Late in
February.
Miami, Fla., Jan. 25. William J.
Bryan yesterday issued a statement say
ing that he had no intention of follow
ing the wake of President Wilson on
his trip through the middle West mak
ing a scries of speeches in answer to
those of the president on preparedness.
He said he would remain in Miami until
he left for Lincoln, Neb., late in Feb
ruary to attend a birthday dinner.
Mr. Bryan Said he would make a few
spoeches on bis way to Lincoln, but
the trip would have no connection with
that of the president, and his allusions
to preparedness would be along the line
of the addresses he delivered last fall.
The dates for his speeches, Mr. Bryan
said, were arranged before it was an
nounced that Mr. Wilson would make
his speaking tour.
A FORMER VERM0NTER.
Many
Sources of Spaciousnest.
There is rcaton in wishing to inr,ase
the appsrent use of our rmuin. Kora
f spici..n-iu. .f having rom
to breathe as well as to turn around
in enhatwrs our comfort mentally and
phyaI5y. The ancients f!t this im
ku!y that they ed to naint ter pec-
third f that tiiM on tlwir willa and on the boun-
b its firt rding ia wBsiderd a (treat jdanen of their little city courtyards,
triumph for Premier Ajuith and for land the results, as we know, were sin
Aodrrw Bonar Law. who d;rwted it pularly f-k-ing. But we, ton. hav
otir. sad. altSn-jrh lat ni?M' debate 'jUit a niimbr of r hy which wi
b-i.i ttl many Uir members are may pain as "illusion f j-auj-nea,"
Major Henry Winn Served in
Prominent Capacities.
Maiden, Mass., Jan. 25. Major Henry
Winn, author of many early corporation
tax laws of Massachusetts and former
clerk of committees of the United States
Senate and one time mayor of Maiden,
died to-day agted 78 years. He was born
in r bitingham, t.
At the clow of the Civil war, in which
he served with distingui-h-d gallantry,
he acted as private mcretary to Senator
Charles Sumner.
Has Agreed to Eliminate from Text of
the Agreement Any Mention of the
Warning to People Who Went
Aboard the Lusitania.
Washington, D. C, Jan. 25. Germany
has submitted to the United States,
through Ambassador on BernstortT, an
other written proposal designed to bring
about a settlement of the controversy
over the sinking of the steamship l.usi
tania, with a loss of more than 100
American lives.
Although the greatest secrecy sur
rounds the negotiations, it was stated on
excellent authority that Germany finally
had agreed to eliminate from ti.e text of
the agreement any mention of the warn
ing issued bv the German embassy the
day the Lusitania sailed on her last trip
from New lork. Mention of this warn
ing is understood to have been contained
in the last proposal, which was rejected
after President Wilson had considered it.
It is understood also that Germany
has left out her proposed general reser
vation of admission -f wrong doing on
the part of the submarine cosimander,
to which the United States objected.
Mention of the warning is believed to
have been most objectionable to the ad
ministration. In effect it was regarded
as conveying tho idea that no American
lives would have been lost had the warn
ing been heeded.
It was also stated authoritatively that
in its latest communication Germany
makes some reference to a desire to see
the United States" take action in regard
to the questions involving the freedom of
the seas.
The German ambassador and Secre
tary Lansing probably will confer re
garding the proposal in tho immediate
future.
. Germany reiterates clearly, it is said,
that the torpedoing of the Lusitania was
an ait of reprisal for the British block
ade of the German coast. Extreme re
gret again is expressed that Americans;
lost their lives in the commission of the
have been caused in some other manner American Federation of Labor, the ex- ciency in saving a large section of the
than by falling on the sidewalk afterjecutive council of that organization has plant, the monetary loss on the building
the man was shot. sent an appeal to all international and and equipment amounted to f23,5Sti.H3.
The defense started its testimony to-1 national unions to all local unions and Not again until Nov. 2 was Barre visit-
day after 13 witnesses had been sworn to state, county and central bodies to ed last -year by a very disastrous fire.
in. The first three witnesses put on the j contribute "their earnings for the second On the morning of that day the business
stand were I. G. Brown, C ity Missionary hour ot any shift worked on Thursday, building of Kejnolds & Son was gutted,
Marshall and Bernard DeJaney. The de- Jan. 27, 11)16, to the relief of their fcl- although the exterior walls of the struc-
fense will probably take two or three low-workers the aged Danburv hatters" tnre remained intact and the immediate
Public Hearing to Be Held on Proposed days, ' Iwho are forced to satisfy a judgment of J danger of the fire communicating to otn-
Quarantine for Eastern "Nursery Stock. I ' " "" over '"Mw in a case brought by I). E. cr wooden buildings in that vicinity was
... - . , ' " Locwe & Co. I discounted by the prompt work of the
aw viun w ufwteci, wmw vine liK A fM IT: I I I I I If S I I lie anneal has been sent tn t h Vor. department.
ll .1.. ..a it,.. ii. . ., I m. M. mm m.m i - .11 " ' - I
vela tiii; uyuMvi j jiv'fii cut, uiscaoc
known as the White pine blister rust, it
is proposed to pmce a federal quaran
tine on shipments of five-leaved pines
and cultivated black currants from sev
eral eastern states. A public hearing
on this question will be held by the fed
eral horticultural board at the depart
ment of agriculture, Washington, on
Feb. 4, at 10 a. m. The states which it
is proposed to quarantine on this ac
count are Ned Hampshire, Vermont.
Postoffice Which Throws Out Use
of Granite Material.
mnilt. bl'flneh nf tlm .4mfrfpnii Pnlorfllinn 1 Thd lnR in thl "Ri'Vnnlila Idm-lr fii-o wno
ENTER PROTEST of Labor and distributed to the various $23, (Mil. 50, so that the two fires, one at
locals. It says: "The Dan bury hatters the south end in the winter, and the
Against Federal Restriction of Style of did " f, j" 1,at w!,ie'1 , JeX did 2 outbreak in the business section,
for the benefit of all organized labor and account for $17,248.33 of the total loss
for all of the workers of the country, for the year. Therefore, dividing the
They did their duty;-they made the test I difference between the total for the year
and upon them has fallen the conse-Iand the total for the two most' disas-
Washington, D. C, Jan. 25 Complaint Iquenees of the injustice of then existing troits fires, which is $8,882 by 65, the
that the treasury, department "is dis-1 conditions. All other workers partici- J total number of alarms, less the twe
criminating against the granite cutters" pate in the benefits which hiive grown alarms accounting for the Straiton and
in rontrietino- thn nt.vln nf tiostoffice and out of their Btructrle. and it is hut iiiRt Reynolds tires, it develona that the aver-
Massachusetts, Connecticut, Kcw York Lthcr federal buildings in which irranite that they should also help to relieve the age loss was approximately $141.14.
and Pennsylvania. I or marble may be used was received yes- victims. If the Danbury batters or the I There were few fires where the losses
The white pine blister rust, like cit-1 terdav bv KiDresentative Olncv from hatters' organization were left to bear amounted to more than $"0G and most of
rus blight and blister blight, is an im- jamKS Duncan of Ouincy, president of the full weight of the burden, it will the more significant losses were around
im icu uotuki imiuiiu " i the Uranite Cntters international Asso-imean to mem great sunering ana great i ri"', aunuugii a majority, as is always .
this country on nursery stock before ..-; nf America. Mr. Olnev will call hardship. Every member of oreanked I the case, are listed around $10, $25 and
the passage of the federal plant quar- on Secretary McAdoo in relation to the labor is urged to do his duty in this mat- W,
antine law. Ninety per cent of the in- matter. ter and to bear his share in the common None of the buildings'was burned to
fections now in America came from a Granite" or marble may be used on strngcle to establish industrial justice." the ground, although there were costlv
single German nursery. The diaeaaa, I postoffice buildings, , says ' Mr. Duncan, To that end members of local unions I dwelling house and burn fires on Rail
it is. said, can be controlled in the east-lonv. offices where the income is $800,- are asked to pay their contributions to road street in April, on Klmwood avenue
em states, where it now exists, but u mxi vear and nf the 3.1 such offices their local secretaries, who. in turn, will I m May and on .Newton street in Decern-
it finds its way into the western forests I those of Bo'ston and Providence are the send the same to the secretary of the J her. In one instance, a dental office fire,
there is no likelihood that its spread only two in New Encland."
can be successfully checked. At the ! the past," be concludes, "there
present time those forests are free from have been hundreds of federal buildings
A. F. of L.
blister rust and it can only be intro
duced into them through nursery stock
of five-leaved pines or currants. A quar
antine against the relatively limited
traffic in this stock is, therefore, be
lieved to be a necessary precaution.
As an additional safeguard, it also is
SEIZURE OF STRANGE LIQUIDS.
Results in Samples Being Sent to State
Laboratory for Analysis.
the loss approached $800. -
According to the chief's report the cost
of the department in 1015 was $8,73.). 18
The total credits for the department
amounted to $1,305.89, the largest in 11
years, leaving a net cost to the city of
$7,420.2!). Exclusive of the. fire alarm
erected of granite, even in cities of class
C incomes, and he asks that the treas
ury department be induced to liberalize
no vi iti . . . , , T .. rt , i ... - ' . ........
iraiiieooro, jan. to. iiie auiiioriiies system and the station building, the
ran across yesterday afternoon a new estimated valuation of the nrnnertv be-
iorm or oooze uisinmiiion anu as a re- lonirinz to the department is SI 4.007.
proposed to prohiHt, the entry of five- . n,t :. a r-,.; "" 1 eiiigrmo is nci.i until juon- making a total of $48,007,
leaved pine nursery stock from Canada --i" day pending a rejwrt from the state lab- The chief recemmends that hydrants
FOUR KNOWN DEAD.
pine nursery
and of nursery stock Of currants and
gooseberries from Canada, Europe and
Asia, these questions will be consul
ered at the same hearing as tiie pro
posea domestic quarantine.
Ihe importance of protecting the
white pine forests from the blister rust
may lie inferred from the fact that in
ew England, Xew lork and l'cnnsyl
vania alone there are still 15.000,000,0H1
feet of mature white pin,! valued at not
less thsn $75.00(,(NM, and in the Lake
states, 12,(WH).(XKUnO feet Talued at $00,
000,0410. In the enormous Torests of the
West the white pine and sugar pine are
among the most valuable trees. At a
conservative estimate, there are about
30,0000.000.000 feet of western white
pine which are worth at least $90,000,
twsi. Ut tncse. Zti.iKHi.utHl.000 feet are in
private holdings and 10,000.000,000 feet
in national forests. The value of the
mature sugar pine is placed in the neigh
borhood of $I50.(Ni0,(HK), the greater part
of wlueii is in private hands.
Ia addition to its effect upon this
standing timber, the cpresd of the lis-
reprisal, and (iermany freely offers rep-l,'''e would seriously interfere with the
aration in the form of indemnity, and planting of trees. At the present time
attention of the United States is called
to the fact that such forms of reprisals
have been discontinued as the result of
negotiations with this government and
to the fact that broad, assurances for the
future have been giten.
All discussions considered superfluous
have been stricken from the prKmal.
Consideration of public opinion in this
country and in fJermany were said to
have played an important part in the
tratting ot tne document. It ha been
pointed out that (rmnn public opinion
nM not look with pprotal upon a
torm oi settlement w mm in anv way
admitted that. rejrrdles of the Amer
icans involved, th torpedoing of the
Liioitama was an improper act and which
might reflect upon the -ommn !cr of the
submarine, lio a ting under in
stmcti"ns whkh have ini te-n mHi
f.rd. In rift of flu, it is mi i.rtoo.l
(rfrmn may admit in th final settle
ment that it n wrorjr that Amcrir-an
the white pines are among the princi
pal varieties planted, not only by pri
vate owners, but also by cities, states,
and the national government. If blis
ter rust is allowed to become preva
lent, much land more suitable for fores
try than for agriculture and which could
otherwise bear splendid forests of white
pine will have to remain waste or be
devoted to Miine inferior tree. It ia es
timated that in New England. Xew York
and Pennsylvania, there are not less
than HuMi.miU'oo acre to which this
is applicable and tlmt in the Ijike state
there are another lo.om.omt.nnf.
The pmfwwed quarantine will not only
be an additions! protection to the rreat
in Buffalo. oratory as to the component parts of a 1 1 installed near the new City hosnital
Buffalo X. Y., Jan. 23. Four persons variety of preparations he was offering and the Spaulding school annex; at the
are known to have been killed, an uncer- Ior "a,e- "'"""n i. r aiann seiz-u aooui corner ot Liberty and ilill streets, where
tain number are missine and four were 4" two o"nce vials containing nve va- a new alarm box was re.ently located;
;i.i in .r,loBinn thok -r,.i-it rities of contents. near Depnt square for tlie benefit of new
the nlant of the Kclker Blower com- i cnigrmo m oiiering mem ior sam granite plants established. therc and one
rn ma muiinftl iirora! Itf tllrt Diner mill V
hausts and ventilators on Harison street mak.e wlLisk,.'j'.- T.he U,M. ?.n ?ne Val
..- t,.t t-toTr ft..m,w marKOd - wuisKey reaus dissolve una
,.:. ..... j.rv....-y ... t.,l.l
f'harloa Ke ker. head of the firm, said "'"' "" -'
ill Kt.n 9 and 2.', emnloves w.-r qua" " water, one leaspooniui SU
" 1 l -ci. . T . i. . 1 : . . i. .. , : : . . . :
X lit- iniri IB tllUIKt'U iinitliun
or, artificially colored." All of the
in the plant and that 21 of them had Par;
tut.. ii Accounted for. " I uav'
The building occupied by the firm was
a long, two story frame structure, the
first floor and basement of which were
used for the machine shop and tlie sec
ond floor ' as a storeroom and living
apartments. The force of the explosion
lemolished all the walls and tore out
large pieces of the concrete foundation,
letting the roof down on the uebns,
which caiiL'lit fire. Pieces of the founda
tion were thrown hundreds of feet and
the concussion smashed practically ev
ery window glass within the radius of
a block.
Within 300 feet of the helker plant
is on of the largest cast side grammar
school. About lrfMI boys and girls
were at their desks when the windows
of the building were shattered by the
concussion.
near llley street for ' the additional
protection of stoneshed property there
Alarm boxesare recommended for the
corner of South Main and Mill streets
aiyl the corner of Granite and Foster
streets. Old wire on the alarm system
from Willcy street to Jones Bros.' plant
extracts require some portion of alco- was renewed and the chief recommends
hoi to 1m added.
HAD ONLY WEEK TO SERVE.
MARRIED IN VERMONT.
Boston People Were United at Bellows
Falls.
Boston. Jn. 2-". A secret wedding in
Bellows Full. Vt., Jan. 15, bream
known in Maiden jeMerday. The con
trailina prtie -re Mis Agnes Tay
lor of 17 Madison street and Herbert F.
Robert f 3' James street. Maiden, and!
Adelard Dupont Escaped from Vermont
State Prison.
Windsor, Jan. 2.V Officials of the Ver
mont state prison have abandoned their
search for Adelard Duiiont, a convict,
who disappeared from the prison on
Si'turday last. It was at first supposed
he had secreted . himself around tho
buildings, waiting for a chance to scale
th walls in the evening, but as he can
not be found it is thought be escaped
in some mysterious way.
I 'upon t had only a w eek more
serve.
that the work be continued from vear
to year, as some of the wire now in use
has been a part of the system for 2f
years. The purchase of LOOO feet ol
hose is also advocated. In closing, the
head of the department takes occasion
to thank the police department and city
officials for their assintance and co-operation
during the year.
GOES TO BUFFALO CHURCH
to
TRAFFIC WAS TIED UP.
the cerenmnv was performed by Key.
western forests, which are natirrallv is-'Alfred U. Wilon. rector of the f.mman-
otated from the Eat by tree! plains.
(Continued m ghth pc.)
but it will protect a w!l th
tions f th cter etste whkh now
! ntide of t!.e wfetcd arva. Maine,
the Ijike state, and the southern states
hue neer lfme inf-t-d mud need
never be if t te diee in enctroiied ia
the territory in which it Bt tti'l.
Rev. Clinton L. Scott Resigns Psstora'.i
at Narthheld.
Xortbficld. -Ian. 2-V Rev. t iitifon J
Scott has been invited to become past"!
of Grace l'iiivilit church, Iiiiffa'o.
. ., and will accept th call, begriming
hi work on Feb. 1. Grace church is lo
cated in the residential section if Buf
falo and is rn.igni!icetitlv equipped with
all facilities fr ocial and settlement
woik.
Mr. Neott has leen settled here for thr
years. .nmin directly iron,
idogiea! s IrmiI of Tu' ti .o!-
tt'.rir.g the ear aireiiiy aT I lie lege. He t- hail splendid siioce m hi)
track and derailirs another. The pa- j fir! pette and ba l-n particularly
s'njrer pih remsincl on tit trmk and i uceesiul ii h;s wosk with the ItuJ .in
was not ikmnifd. A wrk ttala ar-1 reiicnt of Norti fuhl. gramt e.itter
rived at 10 oM.sk, but it noon t-j f.y tr 'e, n ehwuf init l v tmimnp and
fore th tJS.lt wa cleared anJ traft-c natura.Iv it.ten- !v terete.l in all m-
cjl pn.b!em. Mr. Veott sern.s pad . is
Sarlv f tt-- l fot hi- !) ork. s'.i .
When Freight Car Jumped Athwart the
B. A L. Track.
Jericho, Jan. 2". Traffic on the B. &
L. track railroad wa tied up yester
day irtoyiing wh,-n on of the tniL
on the frettlit car broke and as it p-e! past to
fh sw itch me psrt of t aiiM. j t rane Th
uel Fpicipal church.
The flrt n of the marriare cam
in the form of a telegram to Mr. Kb- reumei.
erfs f?iotlfr. Mrs. Msrparet Kohert. s-tat- j
ing thst tl' twe bad been married. I Uesri'r si.etine of ti e Central Ilxv
W bes th Tc.nn eon pie ren.h ti-eir mmi hrtlay eirmrr. Jan. 2. St t ;
l.mr a iwi'li"' dl lat ten- rej t'-ent o'llok. laniMtaiit) Per Ter S. L. Car-! frnsei,t
by tf'Cir many friewua. ' di. seeretarv. Mi. J a J
Scit, who i an rtit ol no n.i i.n
it v. is al-rt fttt'4 bv -ivtrcr i ( m-
--l ill fie rv-n v.i;:te.
.Vc-tt :.ae uw W -' '.
