The Alliance Herald
The Leading Paper
of Western
Nebraska
5,000 Copies
16 Pages
Two Sections
. EVERY MEMBER NEBRASKA STOCK GROWERS ASSOCIATION. ALL THE NEWS OF ALLIANCE AND WESTERN NEBRASKA
v.-
'. TAL ORGAN NEBRASKA VOLUNTEER FIREMEN'S ASSOCIATION. IT REACHES HEADQUARTERS FOR 15,000 FIREMEN
VOLUME XXIII
ALLIANCE, BOX BUTTE COUNTY, NEBRASKA, THURSDAY, APRIL 27, 1916
NUMBER 21
Welcome Nebraska T. P. A's. m
The Alliance Herald, in behalf of the Convention Committee, Post M, the City of Alliance, the Alliance Commercial Club,
city for your annual state convention to be held Friday and Saturday. The convention committee, L. H. Highland, chairman, Jack Hawes, secretary, S. W. Thompson, R. C. Strong and H. W.
Hull have made extensive preparations to care for the delegates. They will be assisted in entertaining you while you are in the city by every member of Post M and by every loyal citizen of Al
liance Your ladies will be cared for by the Ladies' Entertainment Committee, Mesdames S. W. Thompson, Jack Hawes, R. . Strong, George D. Read and T. G. Hitchcock. Convention head
quarters will be found at the Drake Hotel; local headquarters at Miller Brothers Store, on Box Butte Avenue. The business men of Alliance are interested in seeing that you are well entertained
while here and they cordially invite you to visit their places of business and become acquainted. The business sessions will be held in the Imperial Theatre. The Eagles and Elks have issued
special admittance cards to you, and the Alliance Volunteer Fire Department has opened its plunge for your use while here, in order that you may rejuvenate and refresh yourselves in the spark
ling, healthful waters of Western Nebraska. After your work here is finished and you return to your homes over the state we trust that you will remember Alliance in a way that will make you
want to come again.
CLYDE CURRY
IS ACQUITTED
Imrj in the furry Trial Brings Ver
dict of Not Guilty Out
Thirteen Minute
Mike Swaye's Cawe In Same Affair
Is Continued Till Fall Term
f District Court
After deliberating only thirteen
minutes, the jury in the case in
'which Clydo Curry wbb charged with
receiving stolen property returned a
erdlct of not guilty.
This case occupied most of the day
Tseeday, and was given over to the
Jary at 1:30 Wednesday afternoon.
It attracted a large crowd of people.
.The jury in the case was composed
f George Burke, foreman, C. H.
Fmller. G. II. Clayton, It. L. Ha i ris.
Menry Carry, Herman Rehder. P. K.
Christiansen .Thomas A. Green, Wis.
Kinsley, George Hitchcock, G. P.
Jenes and R. R. Workman.
Curry was accused of receiving
neney stolen from Robert Mai wait,
a German laborer who, after several
weeks work at the Potash Products
Werks. came to town in March for a
few days, and was robbed at the At
las hotel, where he had put up for
Ike night.
At the time of the robbery and
sabsequent arrests Ray Thompklns
waived preliminary hearing and
plead guilty. He and Maiwalt were
the principal witnesses for the state.
Mike Swayze. a Chadron lad who
was charged with being implicated in
the robbery, was also arrested at the
time. He was a witness for the de
fense in the Curry trial, and his trial
kaa been continued till the fall term
f district court. He remains under
Sit bond.
Earl Berry, who had been subpoe
aed as a witness, failed to appear
and Nell Thompson and one other
fr whom subpoenaes had been is
sued departed Monday before the pa
pers could be served.
The defense was represented by
Joe L. Westover and Win. Mitchell.
Cwunty Attorney Basye was assisted
is the prosecution by Attorney Fred
Wright of Scottsbluff.
WANT BIDS ON RESERVOIR
City Council Approve. Plans
Se-incfttioiiM Submitted by
Grant & Fulton
i nd
Plans and specifications for the
otty's 500.000 reservoir as submitted
fry engineers Grant and Fulton ot
Lincoln were approved at a meeting
f the city council held Monday night
aad the city clerk was instructed to
advertise for sealed bids on the con
struction work to be opened at tlr
reuncil chambers on Tuesday nigh
May 16.
The otfi.ial notice appears else
where in this Issue of The Heral''.
Parties interested may see copies of .
Ue plans and specifications at th ,
iUv liEht and water department or
at the offices of Grant and Fulton
TO INSPECT CHADRON PLANT
Otui-il Will Make Investigations
Concerning Municipal Steam
Heating Plants
The members of the Alliance city
council, or as many of them as can
get away, will go to Chadron Tues
day May S. to inspect the central
su-am heating plant in that city.
The plant in that city la a private
enterprise and is controlled by a Ann
which Is operating several central
kiting plants In various cities in
western Nebraska. However, the
Alliance couacilmen expect to gain
Information at to the various meth
ods of operation and construction
taat will be of assistance to them in
making their plana for a municipal
killing plant In Alliance.
.1. C. Lawer, member jt an engin
eering- firm of Denver, was in Alli
ance Tuesday to confer with mem
bers of the city council with regard
to the proposed municipal heating
plant.
Hugh Linn, who has been employ
ed by the Alliance Creamery for th
past three years, left Tuesday noon
fer Basin, Wyo.. where be has ac
cepted a position aa manager of a
creamery. Clarence Melvin of Cin
cinnati succeeds Mr. Lynn aa "ice
cream maker" at the plant here.
TRACTOR DEMONSTRATION
WILL BE HELD TOMORROW
City May Buy Tractor and Grant Li
quor Licenses at Meeting To
morrow Night
Tractor companies and local pur
ties dealing in tractors have been re
quested to meet with a committee
from the city council tomorrow af
ternoon for the purpose of demon
strating their machines.
Several weeks ago the city coun
cil at a meeting opened bids on seven
or eight different tractors. Agents
or representatives were present at
the meeting, explained their ma
chines and handed out literature and
as a result after several hours dis
cussion the members of the council
concluded that so much discussion,
printed material and information on
a subject they were not very familiar
with only tended to confusion and
decided they could make a more in
telligent selection of the machine
best suited to the eity'B neds after a !
tiractlcal demonstration of the ma-
chines.
This demonstration will probably
be made on the premises of Win. ,
Davidson in the northwest part of j
the city, and while the matter has ,
been left in the hands of a committee
to attend and then make a recom-1
mendatlon. most of the members of j
the council will be present to see for.
themselves and they have secured
the services of a non-interested party !
who ha9 a practical knowledge off
tractors and similar engines to as
sist them in making their selection. ,
Tomorrow night the council will j
hold a special meeting to close upj
the deal for a tractor and also to ,
grant the liquor licenses for the fiscal t
year beginning May 1.
ENYEART BADLY HURT
Well known Itox Itutte County Farm
er Seriously Injured Iast Week
When Hun over by a Colt
A. S. Enyeart. well known farmer
and ranchman living in the north
western portion of the county, was
seriously injured last week while
working with some horses on his
ranch last week. While running
ahead of some of the horses he slip-.
ped and fell and was run over by a ;
colt. He was knocked senseless andj
suffered from concussion of thei
brain, being unconscious four hours, j
He is now able to be out again but j
stil feels the effects of the accident.
MAY BRING SUITS
llliatice Attorney SMIes That Dam
age Suits Ag-iiust Burlington
Arc Helm: Contemplated
Joe I,. Westover, Alliance attor-
i nev. in an interview wttn a iieraio
Wednesday, stated that a
. , contemplated against the Bur-
lington railroad for $59,000 by Kath- Danjeia and asking Wheeler to look
n ine E. Castle, as administratrix of j QUl for tnem here Tbe traja wert.
the estate of John W. Castle. The I KMl(, bu, Wheeler recognized the
charges will allege that a mound I o ! kidnapp,.r flom ,ne description sent
earth parallel w ith the track had , a a ,nall ne had board the train
been thrown up after a wreck on the he. for ,he ea8t and he mmedlate
stoek yards track at Mullen and that , ,y wirw, ,,,,, authorities at Mullen,
this was the cause of the accident ; who intercepted him and brought
which caused the death of Mr. Cas- Uim bark tnrou;h Alliance to Fort
tie. E. T. Clark, Burlington ttor-! Morf,aa
ney. Is expected here within a few j -days
to take up the matter of a set-' Invited to Visit Hotel
tiemeni. i.asiie mjuiru mu
lied on January 19.
Mr. Westover was in Omaha las'
week with Frank E. Hunsaker, the
Alliance brakeman who waa injured
on November 29 near Weir. X-ray
examinations were made by Omaha
surgeons and specialists, disclosing a
"fracture of the left sacro-illiac Joint
and a compound fracture of the
ninth, tenth, eleventh and twelfth
lor sal vertebre, over to and extend
ing to the second sacral vertebral
bones, known as the lamina, indicat
ing great thickening about the lum -
har Joint witn tne nri sacrai verie-
bre.".. Suit for I6U.V00 is contem
plated in this case.
Columbia Window Display
V. E. Holsten. local dealer for Col
umbia phonographs and records, be
"ieves in timely window displays and j
advertising. One of his display win
lows this week has an interesting
and beautiful assortment of Colum
bia machines and records with a T
P. A. background. In The HeraM
this week will be found an advertise
ment of the latest May records.
EARL MONTAIGUE DOES
NOT WAIT FOR TRIAL
Lad Charged with llape and Seduc
tion Doesn't Show up When
Case Is Called
Earl M. Montalgue, who was
charged with seduction and rape,
failed to make his appearance Tues
day morning when the case was to
have been tried. This case promis
ed to be one of the most Interesting
and to attract as much attention as
any other case, and Montalgue, who
was put under cash bond of ?400 last
December to appear for trial at this
term, had returned to Alliance last
week, and was here several days. In
checking over the docket Monday af
ternoon when this case as called.
Montaigue's attorney. Wm. Mitchell,
stated they were ready for trial "if
Montalgue is in town," and a subse
quent investigation brought out the
fact that Montaigue had not been
seen since Saturday night
Montaigue was in town Friday and
Saturday making a desperate attempt
'to dispose of a Ford automobile for
i cash, but whetherd he effected a sale!
we have been unable to learn.
OBERLIES WILL LECTURE
AT CHRISTIAN CHURCH
Lincoln Lecturer Will He at
Christian Church the Week
of May Mill
the
L. E. Obeiiies, well known anil
popular lecturer, has been secured by
Rev. H. J. Young, pastor of the Alli
ance Christian church, to give a ser
ies of addresses at the church begin
ning Monday night May f, and end
ing Sunday night May 14.
Mr. Oberlies is the speaker who
delivered the principal address at the
'Father' and Sons' Banquet" put on
i by the Commercial Club here several
months ago. He Is a speaker of un
' usual ability, and his lectures are in
spiring, instructive and entertaining.
! Special music for the week's series of
meetings will be in charge of Prof.
I John Havlik, director of the Chris
1 tian church choir.
I Mr. Oberlies 'subjects for the
' meetings here are:
Monday: "Tin Cans and Turnips."
i Tuesday: "Four Pictures."
j Wednesday: "Fun and the First
j Mile."
Thursday: "The Fascinating
Book."
Friday: "Why a Christian Church
in Alliance."
Saturday: "A Square Deal for the
Sunday School."
Sunday morning: "Crown of Op
portunity." Sunday evening: "Alliance in
Debt."
Kidnapper Is Caught
Marshal Wheeler received a mes
sage about noon Saturday from Fort
Morgan. Colo., stating that a five-year-old
boy had been kidneppeu
:i r- hv u mun hv the nuniA nf 11 It.
I J. M. Miller, proprietor of the Al-
- . - ... 1 . .. . w X . 1 .1-1 1 .......
I nance jioiei, 10 waicn a imru niuij
has been added and which has been
entirely remodeled, is extending an
invitation to T. P. A. delegates and
convention visitora to viait the hotel
and become acquainted. There is
now hot and cold water in every room
and many of the rooms are equipped
with private baths. A private tele
phone exchange has been installed
land the hotel is now strictly modern
laud well worth a visit to see.
, ,jfTHKIK FOIIMS PAItT.NKHSHIP
Well KitoHU Alliance lunuraiM-e Man
Take Partner into Business
John W. Guthrie, the well known
Alliance insurance man, formerly
president of the Alliance Comemrcial
Club, on Wednesday formed a part
nership with Samuel B. Wright, who
li.i i il .;.-. sgeiil for I lie Mix
souri State Life Insurance Company.
The firm name will be Guthrie &
Wright, and the a Hire location wd
continue the same aa at present, in
the First National Bank building.
COX GETS MAN WANTED
AT MARSHALL, MO.
Frank Kidd, Who Has ltecn Working
nt llcinlngford. Charged
With llnpe
Frank Kidd, who had been work
ing for Clarence Rosenberger at
Ilemingford hauling potatoes for a
couple of months, was arrested yes
terday by Sheriff Cox, who had re
ceived word from Sheriff Price of Sa-
line county, Mo., that the young man !
is wanted at Marshall, Mo., to answer
rhnriroB nt ranp
Kidd stated this morning that he slanderous than usual. However,
didn't know what he Is arrested for when the aforesaid gentleman Con
or what the charges against him are. fesscs himself to be a perjurer by his
He said ho had been working at own admission I feel that it is time
Hemingford since the 16th of Febru-: that he should be shown up In his
ary and that he came here from lilt-!
nols. He said he had been out In
Wyoming and also to the Pacific
coast since leaving Illinois but wan
there only a short time.
Sheriff Cox wired the sheriff at
Marshall, who Is expected here to
morrow to take his man back to Mis-
sourl
DAMAGE SUI1S AGAINST
niTU nil THIII TfiniU ' statement Is also required to be pub
Ill I I UN lltlAL I UUAT ! BQn March 3 0 tr.HP Sallows made
I out, signed and swore to the follow-
i i ii Mflkluvit. routed from the Times
Judge II. M. Grimes, of North Platte.
Ik Presiding at Spring Term
of District Court
The spring terra of district court
i convened here Monday afternoon.
Judge H. M. Grimes of North Platte
came here to open this term of court
1 as there were several cases on the
1 docket at which Judge Westover was
i disqualified from presiding. Howev-
er, it is probable that Judge Westov
! er will be here next week to conclude
the business of the spring term.
Judge Grimes arrived in the city
Monday noon
and Monday afternoon
was taken up clearing the docket of
miscelaneous matters. Tuesday
morning the Curry trial was taken
up. This is mentioned in another
column.
Today the cases acainst the city
tried
Suits for damages as a result of
the work done on this street have
been brought by Enoch Boyer. Mrs.
Martha Miller, Albert Wlker and
Mtb. Anna Worley.
A service in the Interests of tern-
wMAwa nA will ha hoM at thn Prafihv- I
'v u .11 " - v- - ' j
terian church next Sunday evening
at 8 o'clock .under auspices of the
Women's Christian Temperance Un
ion .several churches uniting. The
program follows:
"Onward Temperance Soldiers" . .
Women's Choral Club
Scripture Reading . . . Mrs. Mclntyre
Prayer Rev. Edward Mclntyre
"Praying Tonight"
Women's Choral Club
Reading . .
'The Fight
Mrs
Reynolds
is On"
, . Women's Choral Club
Mrs. J. W. Reed
Paper
The Ixst Chord"
Women's Choral Club
Paper Mrs. J. J. Vance
"Victory Bells"
Women's Choral Club
Offering.
"America".
Benediction Rev. H. J. Young
for damages aleged to have been sus-1 ; uf Hfrcsa id p ubllca
talned to property abutting on Box Ion for the ate .hown In he above
Butte avenue when the grade was caption required by of A K-
changed two years ago. are being "t 24 19 2 em bod Jnm
! not appear upon the books or in
A ,M. K.. Hold Foster Service j company as trustees, hold stock au
A beautiful Easier service i securities in a capacity other tha-
held at the City Mission Sunday ev
ening, rendered by members of the
A. M. K. Sabbath school. There were
nnngs by the choir, quartets, duets,
solos .addresses, readings, recitations
and an exercise by five Juniors.
The audience, numbering about
fifty persons, highly appreciated the!
efforts of the school.
Those participating in the program
were Mesdames Kirby. Glass. Selby.
Barton. Curl. Leanner, the Misses;
Walker. Selby, Shelton. OUie and Ef-!
lie Hlsuthler. Messrs. Elmore. Green j
Selby. Mack Leanner, Lester Lean-
ner, Curtis Kirby. Oscar Selby. andj
others. Mrs. Mack Leanner presid-!
ed at the (ilano.
A collection amounting to $6 was
! taken which goes to the educational
fund of the church.
The T. P. A. dance on Friday even
j ing at the opera house is to be for
members and visitors only. On Sat-
urday evening the T. P. A. dance will
i he open to all.
and the people of Western Nebraska, welcomes you to our
SAYS TIMES EDITOR IS
SELFCONFESSED PERJURER
Judge Ilerry Make Statement Con
cerning Incorrect Notice Print
ed and Sworn to
Alliance, Nebr., April 26, 1916.
To tho Editor of
The Alliance Herald:
I have been attacked moro or less
in a libelous and unfair manner by
that paragon of virtue, Hen J. Sal-
lows, the esteemed editor of the Al
llance Times. I have protested at
times when his articles became more
true light.
Twice each year, on October 1 and
on April 1, newspapers are required
to publish sworn affidavits setting
forth the names of the owners of the
paper, the editors and business man
agers and also all parties holding
mortgages, bonds or other forms of
securities. Two copies of this sworn
affidavit ,on special blanks, are for
warded to the postmaster and
through him to the postofllce depart
ment at Washington. The sworn
I Df March 31:
Statement of the Ownership, Manage
ment, Circulation, Etc., Iteutred
h) the Act of Congress of August
21, IUI2.
The Alliance Semi-Weekly Times
published semi-weekly at Alliance.
Nebr.. for April 1, 1916.
State of Nebraska. County of Box !
Butte, ss: i
Before me, a notary public in andj
for the- state and county aforesaid.!
personally appeared Ben J. Sallows.)
who having been duly sworn accord
ing to law, deposes and says that he
is the editor and owner of the Alli
ance Semi-Weekly Times and that
the following is, to the best of hi
knowledge and belief, a true state
ment of the ownership, management
tand if a dally paper, the clrcula-
printed on the reverse of this form
j to-wlt:
I 1. That the name and address of
j the publisher, editor, managing edit
! or, and business manager is Ben J.
Salows, Alliance, Nebr.
2. That the owner is Ben J. Sal-
io N'r.
That the know n bondholder",
mortgagees, and other security noiu-
ers owning or holding 1 per cent oi
more of total amount of bonds, mort-
...i : : .... A
gases, or oiim i .. ...... --.-. . ..
genthuler Linotype Co., New-
City.
4. That the two paragraphs next
above, giving the names of the own
ers, stockholders, and security hold
ers. if any, contain not only the lisi
of stockholders and security holder;
' as they appear upon the books of Hi
company hut also, In cases where th
stockholder or security holder i
pears upon the books of the coinpan
as trustee or in any other fiduciary
relation, the name of the person oi
corporation for whom such trustee i
actinic. Is Kiven also that the said
two bracing affiant's full knowledg
and belief as to the circu ..stance.. ;
and conditions under which stock '
holders and security holders who d
that or a bona nae owner; ann im
affiant has no reason to believe that
any other person, association, or cor-
poratlon has any interest direct oi
indirect in the said stock, bonds, or
mhwr BM-ut'ltles than as so stated b.
i him. BEN J. SALLOWS.
Sworn to and subscribed before ni
this 30th day of March, 1916.
(Seal) W. R. METZ.
By referring to paragraph 3 of the
above sworn statement you will see
that he gives the bondholders, mort
gagees, and other security holdei
owning or holdiug one per cent or
more as the Mergeulhaler LiiMt)pe
i-.. eu Vork t it. Hiving no oth
ers.
flavin "Rotten by" With other.
things in the past. Mr. Sallows evi
dently seemed to believe that he
,nM do the same this lime, and b
...Itfht have done so, had not Chaiiee
Wallace, business manager of
(Continued from page 1)
THOMPKINS GETS
1 TO 7 YEARS
Judge Grimes Parses Sentence Today
on Man Charged with
Iarceny
Say Made No Mistake Pleading Gull
ty Illume Iloozo and Gang
for the Trouble
From one to seven years sentence
in the penitentiary was the sentence
given to Ray Thompklns this morn
ing in district court by Judge It. M.
Grimes, and Thompklns, who had
been out on bond since he plead guil
ty to larceny at his preliminary hear
ing several months ago was remand
ed to Jail awaiting the convenience
of the sheriff to take him to the state
Institution.
Thompklns was charged with rob
bing Robert Maiwalt at the Atlas ho
tel early in the spring. This Is the
robbery case In which Clyde Curry
was acquitted yesterday and In which
Mike Swayie, the Chadron lad, will
be tried on a charge of larceny at the
fall term of district court.
When seen at the county Jail this
morning Thompklns said, "If I had
plead not guilty and sworn to a lot of
lies I might have gotten out of it. I
ha dplenty of chances to run away,
but 1 didn't want to be dodging of
ficers all the rest of my life. Any
way, it'll be a good lesson to me.
Booze and the gang was the cause of
it all. I'm going to take my medi
cine, behave myself and try to get
the shortest term, and maybe a par
don." PROGRAMS AT ClllltCHKS
WERE WELL CARRIED OUT
We have been handed the reports
of several of the different churches.
which will be of interest, and shows
j the efforts and resu Its of earnest
I workers.
I At the Christian church the larg
I est attendance in the history of the
l It U I V II ID IT gJJ V . ( V - svj m wu
of uniting the Sunday school hour
with the morning preaching service
and dismissing a quarter of an hour
earlier was unanimously adopted,
and put into effect last Sunday. The
children of the Sunday school occu
pied the first half of the session, af
ter which the pastor gave an excel
lent sermon. In the evening, the
choir, under the leadership of John
Havlik, rendered "Alleluiah," and
the music showed not only efficient
training, but excellence in rendition.
Faster Sunday proved to be an in
spiring and helpful day for the at
tendants at the iMethoditst church, the
Sunday school attaining its greatest
number, two hundred and nlnety-
! eight being present. Eighteen dol-
. : lars worth of eggs were given for the
Methodist hospital, and at the morn-
. u,vl(. r..iinw.t X?fi 8ft
)ork,...n . . "
t in cusn was received for the same
j purpose. The preaching service drew
I a large house, and special program
! pleast-d. Six children were baptized.
five additions to the church were
; n.ad.'. and two received into full
i membership. The day ended with
the evening service, and the large
audience was delighted with the Eas
jter concert under the management of
' Paul Thomas. Besides musical num
i bers, excellent readings were given
by Miss Mattle Clare Gifford and
Miss I,eone Mallery.
Pt'HUSIIKD 1IY KKUl'EST
By request of a Herald reader, we
publish herewith an article taken
from the Ohio Slate Journal of April
2. 1916:
The edllor of American Medicine
again warn bis readers against too
much faith In uaeteurlied milk. He
J eays recent experiments prove that
the pasteurized milk Is much more
liable to reinfection than raw milk
and should therefore be used as soon
'as possible. Caielessly handled in
transportation or in the home, it
quickly colects bacteria and becomes
highly dangerous to health.
I Ca.i Young, who has been couttned
to his home with an attack of rheu
matism, is reported as improving.
' A
) Mrs. F. T. Helpbringer and Mrs.
John Burke are spending today with
! Mrs. Anna Ward at Edgemont. .
A. D. Rodgers is installing a large
new refrigerator and other butcher
shop equipment in his grocery store
at a cost of about 1500. when
; , , naittd ., meat market
hewll bfl moiei.n n evry respect and
will occupy the eutire back part of
the store room.
I
