IH.irnijTiil,nm-trTT,ni-"--ini .111 ji nr 1 rj-y -TI i" prill 'f Iji IV --"- - " """r'J,V' """''"'','"' "' ' '
JH .COTYOV
"Circulation Books Open to AIL" I
PRICE ONE CENT.
Oop;rlht, 1IIKI, bj Tim rrf PnblUhloi
Co, (The New York World).
NEW YORK, THURSDAY, APRIL 27, 1916.
BERLIN REPORTS DANGER OF BREAK WITH U. S. PAST 1
VNIX WEATHER UnMHUd to-night and probably Friday. Ill
mt mam mm. fmm 1
t" Circulation Iiookft Open to All." v fl
20 PAGES PRICE ONE CENT. ,fM
.1
1 im.
REVOLUTION IN IRELAND GROWS;
REBELS HOLD PART OF DUBLIN
GERMAN CRISIS PASSED
THERE ILL
High Authority in Berlin Says
Fear of Diplomatic Rup
ture Is Gone.
KAISER WANTS PEACE.
Conferences With Holhveg and
Other High Officials Are
Still Going On.
By Carl W. Ackerman
BERLIN, via Amsterdam. April 27
(United Press) Tho crisis In the
Cfceman -American situation growing
out of the submarine controversy lun
Virtually passed. There will bo no
rupture of diplomatic relations predi
cated on nny developments to date.
The United Tress Is able to nuke this
Btatemcnt to-day on most i xi t-Ueiil
authority.
Pending negotiations for a mure
complete understanding. Oermnn huIi
marine commanders will bo under
certain explicit Instructions from tho
'Admiralty. What th?o instructions
will be Is not known. Tlmy will b
of'auch a nature, however, as to fur
klib nssuranco that there will bo no
repetition of the nets complained of
by the United State whllo negotia
tions nro In progress.
Tho high point of danger Is said to
have been reached and paused two
days ago when tho Foreign Office re
oelvcd certain Information respecting
the attitude of President Wilson.
Opinion differs as to whether chief
credit rents with Ambassador Uerard
or Ambassador Hcrnstorff.
The oltlclal news agency has cir
culated throughout Oormuny excerpts
from newspapers In all sections of
the United States, Indicating almost
unanimous support of President Wil
son's firm stand on the U-boat Issuo.
Thta was dono to sllonco thnso critics
of the Qerman Government who In-
that Presldont Wilson la bluffing
lacks Donular support.
a mnmtnliMi conference, with the
oontlnuanoo of friendly relations be.
tween the United States and Germany
la the balance, was in progress to-day
Bt Grand Army Hoadquartcrs.
The Beml-otllcial nows agency, In
tnansmittlne for publication in Amor-
la a fiery editorial by Count von
Eteventlow on tho Clermon-Amerlcnn
erlalj, points out thnt itovontiow's
Tlrtva are, by no means Inspired by
German officials.
"Only tho Tageszoltu. r, Co -.nt Ro
rantlow, maintains his former Im
placable attitude, asserting that con
oaastona on tho part of Germany
would cause new and further do
Bianda by the United States," said
tke aeml-otllclal statement. "Count
lUveatlow adds that the submarine
war Ja the only etllclcnt weapon at
Germany's disposal. These opinions
originated solely In the German
prau."
WASHINGTON, April 27. Presl
dent Wilson has beon Informed Am
bassador von Hcrnstorff is striving to
bring about a satisfactory adjust
ment of tho ditllcultles Involving tho
two nations. This knowledge has a
favorable effect upon all tho Presi
dent's official family.
Bo long as German officials scon)
tto 'be working vigorously to meet tho
'president's views. It Is believed un-
Mkely that tho Presldont will demand
"greater hasto or take any other ac
tion 10 r tno present at. toast uku
might embarrass the Gorman For
ftca Office In Its work.
IK U. S. GOVERNMENT
BE NO BREAK
GERARD STARTS TO-NIGHT
TO VISIT THE KAISER
Ambassador Going to Army Head
quarters, Where Emperor Has
Held U-Boat Conference.
BERLIN. April 27. James W.
Gerard, the American Ambassador to
Germany, will leavo Berlin to-night
for the German Army Headquarters,
when! he will bo received by the Ger
man Kniperor.
Dr. von Helhmann-Hollwcg, tho
German Imperial Chancellor, who up
to tho present has been at tho army
huuihiuarters. Is expected to como to
Berlin io-moriow to prepare Ger
many's answer to tho latest American
note.
MEET JAPAN'S VIEWS
ON IMMIGRATION BILL
.Majority of Senate Committee
Agree to Eliminate Objection
able Clauses.
WASHINGTON, April 27. Japan's
i views are said to bo completely met
In an amendment to tho Burnett Im
migration bill which a majority of tho
mumbers of the Senate Immigration
Commission agreed to to-dny.
Only an Informal meeting -was hold,
jwlth Democrats present. It Is expected
Ithe full committee will meet early noxt
I week anil confirm to-day's action.
The meeting was told that Japan
would be seriously offended at any
enactment designed to keep her citi
zens from the United States, She
is now operating under n "gentle
men's agreement," by which she re
fuses passports to laborers who xeek
to enter tho United States, without
admitting that all her citizens are
entltlod to free entry and settlement.
Japan, It was said, feels that for tho
Unltod Statos to pass n law whllo
this agreement is In operation wtfuld
he a reflection on Japan's honor.
Japan also was displeased at hav
ing her cltlnens referred to In the
same classification paragraph with
Hindus.
ZEPPELIN BOMBARDS
MARGATE, BERLIN SAYS
Town Is an English Seaside Resort
Eighty Miles From
London.
BI'ItUN, April 27. A Gorman
Zeppullu last night bombarded tho
Kngllsh port of .Margate the Admir
alty announced this afternoon.
Tho Zeppelin showered bombs on
tho docks and railroad establishments
at Margate. Another Zeppelin bom
hardod Hnsslan factories nud rail
roads at Dvlnsk.
Several air fights occurred on tho
west front yesterday. An enemy
aeroplane was shot down near
Souehez, (mother south of Tallinn
and a third south of Parenoy. A
German nlr squadron bombarded the
railroad in the Noblette valley soutii
of Suippes.
Mnrgnto is a llshlng town and sea
side resort of about HO.OOO Inhabitants,
eighty miles east southeast of Lon
don, In tho County of Kent. An old
clal statement Issued at London early
to-duy reported another Zeppelin raid
on England last night,
WIEXICANS ATTACK
U. S. SUPPLY TRAIN
Ambush Americans, but Are
Routed by Fire of Soldier
Guards.
SENTRIES SHOOT FOUR.
Thwart Prisoners' Escape at
Casas Grandes Americans
Menaced in Durango.
COLUMBUS. N. M.. April 27.
An attack on a motor train carry
ing supplies to Amorlcan troops In
Mexico was reported to-day when
members of the crow returned here.
A band of about fifteen Mexicans at-1
tsched to no particular faction fired
on tho Jraln from ambush In a can-
on near Satevo several days ago.
The soldiers guarding the train took
, a position behind tho steel wheels
of tho motor cars and returned tho
I ilro, routing tho Mexicans and cap
, luring two of their number.
I Snipers' bullets also struck tho mo
tor cars on the trip north, but It was
t liiiposslblo to locate tho source of tho
firing
Pour Mexican prisoners at Casas
I GrandrH arc reported to-day - hnvn
1 been killed by United Stutes sentries
In attempting to escape. Scores of
Vllllsta.i captured aro said to bo held
at various points along tho American
, communication lines. Much vnlua
1 bio Information hue been obtained
from them.
SENTIMENT IN FLA MED
AGAINST AMERICANS
UY MEXICAN PRESS
KL PASO, Tex., April 27 -Disturb-Inc?
renorts woro received hern to-
j day from many points In Northern
I and Central Mexico regarding atitl
I American feeling on tho put t of the
Puons.
Tho most serious of thnsn reports
reforred to towns In Durango and
especially to Durango City whoro the
Americans still living thorn havo been
repeatedly warned by United States
Consul Coon to leave. There aro
probably not morn than a doren
Amerlcnns still in Durango City, the
majority of whom have married Into
Mexican families.
Amorlcans who havo arrlvod hero
from Durango and Southern Chihua
hua say that tho Parral Incident haw
boon magnified out of nil proportions
and grossly distorted by Mexican
papers which havo described It as
a great Mexican victory. At tho same
time most of tho reports agruo that
tho Carranza generals and other ru
Bponslblo olllcers havo dono every
(Continued on Fourth Page.)
DUTCH SHIP HITS
MINE SECOND TIME
nOTTF.IlDAM, April 27 (via I,on
don). The Dutch steamship Maas
h.iven struck a mine yesterday morn
ing while bound f i mil Loudon for this
port. A tug currying the survivors
arrived .it Watermg to-day.
Oil Apnl 1 the Mnasli.iven lilt a
mine ii'i the Kiu'IUOi coast but man
aged to i each the Thames. Neces
sary icpairs mil' made and mi Tues
day of tills week the vessel left fur
ltotteiilam in tow of two tugs,
THE WOULD 1K.WI.I. lIUKhAU,
IM ,M HIM iwn.
. I ...
Tlrkrli. rm'ntl- uv .uu&. . rU til nr.
nuili. L'(ltvtlBf TectHl alii b'illth Aaivtun
I atrim.hln lint, Ilacjn anil etrcel chrrlr rm
mowi tor Ml. Ttltpboai Bmibu iOoo. Mrt.
ON WAY TO SATEVO
REDMOND AND CARSON UNITE
IN DENOUNCING THE RERELS
LONDON, April 27. At the conclusion of the statement of Premier Asquith in the House of
Commons to-day concerning the Irish uprising Sir I-.dward Carson and John Redmond, bitter enemies
on the Home Rule question, joined in pledging support to the Government.
Sir lid ward Carson aroused great enthusiasm
when he said:
"1 am satisfied wilh the Premier's
statement that I lie (Jovernmcnl will
be able lo regulate affairs in Ireland.
I want to assure the country I hat I
will gladly join hands with John Hed
inond and (he Nationalists in doing
everything possible lo put down those
rebels now and forever more."
Headquarters of
Gen. Sir John
SAY BRITISH SAUK
A DUTCH WARSHIP
Merlin Reports Tint Crew Was
.Sent td India hv England, Who
Is to IMy Up.
ISKItl.lN, A pi II 27. The overseas
Neww Agency says a report has been
liulilislied in tho Dutrli newspaper.
Do Tribune, that tho HrltHli sank a
Dutch warship several weeks ago.
According to this report, tho crow
uf tho man-i'Mvar -vas sent to India
to conceal news of the affair, and
Great Urn i prornibod to pay dam-
LLLLL9aaLLLvBLkBBBKt4uua
" WBfciii&V 1 V : '"" building Is Liberty Mull, heail'iuarters of the Keln l-YIn (Our-
HHMfe' : fftTOTH si'lv'Hl movement n Irelnml, I'hntiiuiiiplieil liy I 'an I ThiiiiipMin. Tin)
.. vPrB"k WfaSH '' Pottialt Ih Hint of Miijor Ceo. Mawvell, ulm Imi been unit (ruin London
iisiiiifiirouF
mm TO PR0VEBOMBC0NSPIRACY
the Dublin Revolutionists;
Maxwell in Command of the Forces
S'-u ii st i. Us of dynamite, each six
mi Ii m lung .md an Inch in diameter
iii'iiigli to !ow "lit u shin wall of th
Federal Hiiildlng wiro brought gin
geily Into evidence to-day In tho trial
nf Lieut. Fuy, SclinU and Daecke, the
three Germans charged with con
spiracy to destroy ships, bearing am
munition to the allies.
Tim cigar box containing tho '
plosive was luoilght to View by As
sistant l'tiited States Attorney Kim
during the reduce! exniiiinatlun -if
Carl L Wi-ttlg, tlm clieuilst-liiiiUer
Who dl.scn.eil til" alleged cnnspirury
to tlm iiuthoi Itles.
Mr. Kno aI.ed Mr Wettlg If ho
could Identify a package as one hn
had seen In tho quartets of Fay and
.SclinU In Union Hill. N. J., and, with
the question, began unwrapping a
long, thin c Under of dynamite. It
was one of soven rolled In bits nf
limsspapcr and parked in a cigar box
with a detached lid.
Mr. Redmond was loudly applauded when he
replied to Carson as follows:
"In behalf of my colleagues and the
overwhelming majority of the Irish
people, I wish to express my cordial
detestation of the, aels of the Dublin
rioters. I will heartily join with Sir
Edward in the hope that the situation
will not be taken advantage of by any
political party."
"Vs, 1 hum that m Mie l iiiun Itltl
louse," Hie wltni ss leplml,
ll tins time Mr Knox had the
III st stick of the explosive unwrapped.
As it lay in his hand Judge Down
and the Jurors looked with Interest
but it cunuot be said tliat they craned
their necks. They were not more
than ten feet away from the dyna
mite at liet.
Wettig identified it ns to per rent,
explosive, leaving the witness stand
to bend over tho llovernineut's pros
ecutor to do so. As Mr. Knox count
ed in or the seven sticks, Wettig S lid
III, it he had seen night in tho Union
Mill house, and everybody In the
couit room begun to tingle over
tho apparently missing s'iek.
As he folded the exploslwi in its
newspaper wrappings Mr. Knox ap
pealed to Judge llowo to hnvn the
dynamite taken from tho building as
being dangerous to have about.
"No, we'll keep it until thn termlna-
(Continued on Fourth Pagi.)
ALL IRELAND IS
UNDER MARTIAL LAW
MEASURES TO CRUSH REVOLT
Major Gen. Sir John Maxwell Ordered
to Take Charge of the Country
Under Military Control More
Troops Hurried From England.
UPRISINGS ANNOUNCED
IN WESTERN COUNTIES
LONDON, April 27. The revolt in Ireland is spreading, especially
in the western counties, Dublin is still largely in the hands of the revolu
tionists, martial law has been proclaimed in all Ireland, Major General
Sir John Maxwell left for Ireland to take control of the country under
military law this afternoon and thousands of troops are being made
ready for service in Ireland.
All this was admitted by Premier Asquith in the House of Commons
to-day. The Premier admitted further that the situation in Ireland is
very serious. Military censorship prevails and while tlw Premier as
serted that all possible latitude in tliu transmission of news will be al
lowed it is no secret in official circles that important facts in relation
to the Irish rebellion situation have been suppressed.
It is plain that the military forces in Ireland were unable to cope with
the uprising and that the reinforcements sent from England were unequal
to the requirements. Premier Asquith said, In reply to a question, that he
Ivlieved the additional soldiers now on the way to Ireland or to be sent
as soon as they can be put al).ird transports will be able to put down the
rebellion.
Fighting continues in Dublin, according to otliciai reports, and it is
quite possible that the rioting has been continuous since last Monday.
Premier Asquith admitted that the revolutionists are still in possession of
important public buildings in the Irish capital, despite his statement of yes
terday that the post otlice and all other buildings which the rebels had
Meed h d been retaken by the troops.
Military authorities say that a force of revolutionists strong enough
tn hold public buildings in Dublin four days in the face of attack by
trained troops is an extremely dangerous factor. This circumstance
alone the continued occupancy of public buildings by the rebels shows
that the accounts sent out through otliciai sources have minimized the
k'riousness of the situation.
Sir i'Mward Carson, leader of tho'?
Antl-Ilomn Rule faction In Ireland,
and John Itidmoud, the Nationalist
leader, nutted to-day in evpiesslng In
'lie House of ('ominous their abhor-
reiici nf the uprising. Until pledged
I heir support to the ( invernmeut.
FIRST DUTY 18 TO STAMP OUT
REBELLION, SAYS ASQUITH.
Itcplylng to a question whether
the (iovernineiit had been warned "f
i dangerous giowth of sedition,
Premier Asquith said In the House of
Commons:
"The first and paramount duty of
tho (loverntnent Is to restore order
and to stamp out rebellion with all
possible vigor and promptitude. That
we am doing.
"Hehltul that there Is undoubtedly
an obligation which rests upon the
(loveiuiiieut of making n searching
Investigation Into the causes of and
the responsibility for these events,
That obligation wo fully recognize
and Intend to discharge."
Iteplylng to a tequcs; from Sir
Henry Dalzlel, Liberal Member for
Kirkcaldy lluighs, that thn House of
Commons sit on Momlaj to discuss
the Dublin outbreak. Premier As.
qulth entd that debute on the ques.
Hon could only he mischievous.
"Our ullle nlready have been made
awaro by Hlr Udwnrrt Camon and
Mr, Redmond," the Premier addtd.
DECLARED
;S
"thnt tho movement Is sectional only
and has no sympathy from the rep.
resentatlve Irish leaders."
Major den. Sir John Maxwell,
who becomes the military dictator of
Ireland to-day. was formerly In com
mand of the llnllsh forces In Fgypt.
He takes his new post with full
plenary power.
Section No. 1 of the Defenie of
tho Realm Amendment Act of
1915, granting. Drltith subjects
charged with offenses under the
act the right of trial by a civil
court, hai been impended In Ire
land. Military courts will try of
fonrieri there during the period of
military rule. The royal procla
mation impending provisions of
tho Realm Act wai read, accord
ing to cuttom, on tho atepi of the
Royal Exchango this morning.
ADMISSION OF GOVERNMENT
STARTLES THE NATION.
The admission of thn Government
that thn rebellion Is serious enough to
warrunt tho .sotting up of a military
dictatorship In Ireland created a pro
found Impression In London and
throughout Kngliind ami Scotland
Tho publlo had been led to bellove,
from tho official rnports, that tho up.
rising had been overwhelms! by the
Irish authorities
Th rebellion, tho Prim Ulalatsr
TERN
.til
4
