- .,
POSTSCRIPT
EDITION
lamtma
POSTSCRIPl
'' 'y -w
EDITION
I
VkrtL. Bntf t5 V BF". tit, B
- ' ' :bl. . ,' L
!
I
It '
, s
i
f
t
i
tt
VOL. IR NO'. 104
PHUiADEIiPJUA, THUKSDAY, APRIL 27, 1010.
Coprsiont, 1010, n rstua Ltnon Counnt.'
KAISER IN GRAND COUNCIL
LWITH CHANCELLOR AND CHIEFS;
TO DECIDE ISSUE WITH U. S.
Falkenhayn and Hotlz
endorff Join in Mo
mentous Conference
at Army Headquarters
German Press Indicates Rup
ture Is Unlikely Financiers
Opposed to Break Despite
Inflamed Popular Feeling
Washington Expects Intimation of
Reply on U-Boats by End of
Week Administration Will Not
Recede From Demands In Wilson
Ultimatum -
U. S. Statement Which May
Give Support to Berlin
In the event thnt merchant ships
of belligerent nationality are armed
and under commission or orders to
attack in nil circumstances certain
classes of enemy naval vcbscIs for
the purpose of destroying them,
and arc entitled to receive prize
money for such service from their
Government, ot are liable to a
penalty; for failure to obey the or
ders given, such merchant ships
lose their' status as peaceable mer
chant ships and arc to a limited
extent incorporated in the naval
forces of their Government, even
though it is not their sole occupa
tion to conduct hostile operations.
PBIOBOKE Ciltfrt
U. S. BEGINS PROBE
OF IRISH ACTIVITY
AGAINST ENGLAND
"Neutrality Squad" Seeks
Facts in Alleged Re
volt Conspiracy
VON PAPEN IS INVOLVED
Government Hears Dublin In
surrection Received Sup
port in America
RERUN. April 27.
A momentous conference, with the con
tinuance of "friendly relntlons between the
United .Stntes and Germany In the bal
ance, was In progress today at grnnd
army, hindquarters.
The Kalsor received the views of Chan
cellor von Dethmann-Hollweg. General
Falkenhayn, chief of the General Stnft of
the army, and Admiral von Holtzcndorrf,
chief of the Admiralty Stnff. lie lacked
only further word from Washington, ex
pected through Ambassador Gerard before
many hours, defining more accurately the
American submarine demnnda,
With the return of the Chancellor, It
Is expected the formal reply to the Amer
ican note will be Immediately prepared
and handed to Ambassador Gerard for
transmission to Washington. Unless un
foreseen delays occur. It was stated at
the Foreign Office today, the reply wllT
be In Washington by Monday.
All external Indications are -thnt the
crisis has passed and that there wild be
no break In the relations between Ger
many and tho United States. Analysis
of tho American note causes It to be
Viewed by German officialdom as less
stringent than the first hasty perusal and
Advance bulletins had Indicated.
It Is tho general understanding hero
that Germany will not meet fully Presi
dent, Wilson's demnnd In the reply to be
forwarded In Washington early next week.
How far Gormany' will go no one pre
tends to know, .but well-Informed Berlin'
newspapers believe the Germnn conces
sions will sulTlco to prevent a diplomatic
break,
Tho Tngebjatt today declared that Am
bassador Cforard Is convinced, ns a result
of his conference with the .Chancellor,
that Germany Is. honestly 'striving to
o'old a conflict, nntt that ihe has-, so re-
jjprjoq ia vi umngpn. 'Ape situniion .can
not be' cleared, tho Tageblatt -added,, until.
wasningiop inatcates.' U disposition, but
German officials-hope thattho; United
.States '.wlll-.not Interpose, lnsripernble dlf.
BoUUs- in,- the 'way of-nri-understanding.
Through both Ambassad6r Gerard Arid
Ambassador Bernstorff the German Gov
ernment Is attempting to obtain a more
definite statement of President Wilson's
position before replying to the American
note. Bernstorff has been Instructed to
make a detailed report as soon ns pos
sible. The official news agency has circulated
throughout Germany excerpts from news
papers In nil sections of the United States
Indicating almost unanimous approval of
president Wilson's firm stand. This was
done obviously to silence those critics
of the German Government who Insist
that President Wilson Is bluffing and lacks
popular support.
NEW U. S. STAND
ON ARMED SHIPS
- MAY END CRISIS
Views of America and Ger
many Brought Closer
in Memorandum
CONCEDES BERLIN POINT
WASHINGTON V AITS WORD
FROM BERLIN; NO RETREAT
FROM U-BOAT DEMANDS
WASHINGTON, Aprl'l 27.
With i German officials In Washington
and American officials In Berlin doing,
their utmost to nvold a rupture between
the United States' and' Germany on tlie
TJ-boat nutation, the general situation
was unchanged today. Ambassador Ger.
ird has Informed this Government of the
"t.pfoeresa being made and some official
word from, the German Foreign Office Is
.expected on Its way to Washington by
Saturday,
President Wilson has been Informed
Ambassador von Bernstorff Is striving to
bring about a satisfactory adjustment of
the difficulties Involving tho two nations.
This knowledge has had a favorable effect
upon all of the President's official family,
In discussing von Bernstorffs atttude In
the prtsnt crisis', one official said today;
"There Is no question that the Ger
man Ambassador Is very anxious to
, avoid a break. He will do all he can to
make possible the continuance of friendly
relations. He has done so In the 'past.
He Js In a very trying position, and his
work: Is appreciated."
So long as German officials seem to be
working vigorously to meet the President's
Mews. It Is believed unlikely that the
President will demand greater haste or
take any other action, for the present at
least, that might embarrass' the German
Foreign Office in Its work.
nils, however, tha Intention of the Ad
ministration not to make any additional
concessions to Germany, At the request
of the President, Senator Stone today In
formed the members of the Senate Forr
elgn Relations Committee that the United
States has rested Its whole case. It Is
willlpg to give Germany, plenty of time
tq consider Its action, but the demand
that present methods, of submarine war
fare against merchant ships shall be
abandoned and public announcement made
that this la the Intention of tha German
Government, wilrnot be be receded from
under any consideration. The" slightest
evidence, of weakening now. the Preairif-nt
tQld Senator Stone at a protracted con-
WASHINGTON. April 27.
The publication yesterday by the State
Department of a memorandum op tho
nttltude of the United Stntes toward
nrmed merchantmen quickly followed the
receipt of an Important dispatch from
Ambassador Q nrd at Berlin,
Tho memor's turn wns Interpreted by
close observers ns benrng directly on the
crisis with Germany, in Its ndvico to
traveling Americans it has the color of
a modified McLemore resolution,
The position of the United Stntes now
Is that itn 'nrmed belligerent merchantman
under Instructions to attack In nil cir
cumstances enemy navol vessels, or In
fluenced to do bo by offers of prize money
or penalties, loses Its status as a peaceable
merchant chip.
This is stated In tho following passage
from the memorandum:
In the event that merchant ships
of belllirtrent nationality are nrmed
and under commlitslon onorilrrs to at
tack In' alt circumstances nertaln
clauses of enemy vessels' for .the piirV .,
posit oiuesirpyips mern, ana -are, .en
titled, to .receive hrlso moWj- for (nth'
rvlc"',frjmltieuN riarerrimenr. nr'.ktrti
. liable to. a,nennltj for toUlnre-tn Abey-,,.
- , ,pi, ,u, -.,, null, fiicKi'MUiii, PII1U
Iu"flielr status oh" irafcr!Hi.nier-',-;
chant ships and- are to a :llmlt id'ex"
tent Incorporated In, the .naval 'forces '"
of their Government, even tlioUElf.lt '
Is not their sole occupation to conduct
hostile operations.
Continuing, Its stand on such vessels tho.
United .States asserts:
It should, therefore, be considered
as an nrmed public vesse) and re-,
celve the treatment of a warship.' by
an enemy anil Ity neutrals.
Any person tiiklnc passage on such
a vessel runnnt expect Immunity
other thun that accorded persons who
nre on board n warship.
SUGGESTED BY GERARD,
The position tnken by this Government
Is regarded as favorable to the Oorman
contentions, and the announcement Is con
nlderrd to have a most Important bearing
mi the controversy between the United
Stntes and (iermuny.
The memorandum was prepared In
March by direction of President Wilson
and was originally Intended as a circular
note to the various governments. .Its
publication yesterday, It Is understood, Is
the direct result of a suggestion from Am
IinsHudor nerard, '
The statement is the first official de
claration of this government on the sub
Ject since September 19, 1914, when it
announced that merchant vessels might
carry guns up to six Inches In calibre for
defensive purposes only without taking on
the character of warships.
According to State Department officials,
the settlement of the acute Issue with (ler
munr depends In Uree measure on the
outcome of the diaries of the Herman
Government that British merchantmen
have been ordered to attack-enemy sub
marines. It has been charged by Ger
many that such Instructions were 'issued
secretly by the British Admiralty, nnrt
that prizes were offered in London to the
captains and crews of merchant ships for
tho destruction of German submarines.
REQUEST TO ENGLAND.
It was admitted, by Secretary of State
Lansing today that the United States has
made as second demand on Great Britain
to produce copies of her instructions to
merchantmen to determine whether she
has given mandatory orders In violation
of international law,
If the United States decides that Brit
ish merchantmen have received the In
structions, as charged by Germany, this
WASHINGTON", April 27.
A country-wide Investigation of the
activities of anti-British Irish-Americans
wns undertaken today by tho "neutrality
squau oi me secret service nnd tho
Department of Justice. Inquiries were
ordered In a score of cities as to the
possible connection of Irish-Americans
with the Irish revolt which swept Dublin
early In tho week. New York. Chicago,
Washington, Buffalo, Cleveland, Cincin
nati nnd St Louis nro among the cities
wnere Federal ngents have been ordered
to secure Information.
Reports to tho Secret Service and the
Department of Justice, following the
nnonymous letter sent to British Ambas
sador Spring-Rice threatening to hold
British subjects In tho country respons
ible for tho treatment accorded Sir Roger
Casement. Ill-fntcd leader of the Irish
revolt, were disquieting to tho officials.
Information pointing to the probable com
plicity of Irish-Americans in the Dublin
rebellion was transmitted from vnrlous
ngents, particularly In New York. Whllo
the Department of Justice declined to
comment on the situation. It wns under
stood thnt sweeping orders had been
Issued which will result In tho surveillance
of scores of suspects.
Irish-American leaders In Washington.
while they declined to tnlk for publica
tion, expressed sympathy with tho Irish
Separatists. Groups of Irish-Americans
both In New York and Washington have
been In close touch with the "Free Ire
land" movement, and Information as to
tho outbreak was available In Irish-American
circles in the United States 24 hours
before the British censors passed news
dispatches telling of the revolt. Ameri
can members of tho order of Sinn Fein are
30,000 TEXTILE MEN DEMAND
TEN PER CtiXT. WAGE INCREASE
Fall River Unions Reject Compromise
of Five Per Cent. '
FALL RIVER, Mass., April 27, The
Weavers',, Carders', Slashers', Spinners'
and Loom Fixers' Unions voted last night
to reject an offer by the Fall River Man.
ufneturers' Association for a wage ad
vnnco of 5.6 per cent., and to strike next
Monday Unless the union demands for
a 10 per cent. Increase are, granted,
If a strike Is declared, union leaders
say that 30,000 cotton mill operatives
will be thrown out of cmploment, nnd
thnt the strike may affect not only the
mills controlled by tho Manufacturers'
Association, but nlso textile mills of tho
Fall River Iron Works and tho Charlton
Mills.
BRITISH FLEET
TRAINS GUNS
UPON DUBLIN
Shelling of City Not
Deemed Likely, as Mili
tary Control Situation
200,000 TROOPS READY
APPEAL FOR PAPERS
Ambassador Will Not Identify
Von Igel Documents as
"Official"
Continued on Tne Four, Column Four
WASHINGTON, April 27. Count von
Bernstorff. the German Ambassador;
Wolf von Igel and John B. Stanchflcld, the
niters niiorney, Held a lengthy confer
ence at the Embassy today nt which plans
for obtaining from the Stnta Department
all of the papers seized when Von Igel
wns arrested In New York were thor
oughly canvassed.
The Ambassador has written another
note to Sccrctnry of Stato Lansing re
questing tho return of all of these papers.
This note recalls tho promise made by
Counsellor Polk, of tho State Department,
thnt the papers would be turned back ns
Embassy property.
Attorney Stanchflcld planned to make
a formal call upon Counsellor oik during
the day to nsk for tho papers. It Is stated
that If the papers must be Identified ns
"oclnl" that duty will be undertaken by
von Igel as Count von Bernstorff says he
has no knowledge of the documents nnd
never saw any of them. -All of these
papers, Including the photographic copies
niado by the Department of Justice and
District Attorney Marshall, of New York,
are now In tho possession of the State
Department, having been turned over to
It at the request-of Secretary Lansing
personally.
London Papers Demand Chief
Secretary and Lord Lieu-
tenant Resign
LONDON, April 27. The whole of
Ireland has been placed under martial
law, Premier Asquith stated In the
House of Commons this afternoon.
LONDON, April 27. Dublin has
been brought under the guns of Brit
ish warships that have anchored in
Dublin Bay. It is believed, however,
that the military authorities have the
revolutionary situation so well under
control in the Irish capital that it will
not be necessary to fire upon the city.
LONDON. April 27.
Dublin hns been brought under the guns
of British warships thnt havo nnchored In
Dublin Bay. It is believed, however, that
the military authorities havo tho revolu
tlonnry situation so well under control In
tho Irish cnpltal that It will not bo neccs
sary to fire upon tho city.
Reports that the Insurrectionists had
sacked part of Dublin wero given oiriclal
cognizance when Premier Asquith an
nounced that there was no reason to be
lieve that the banks wero unsafe. Tho
Government nnd nvo financial Institutions
In tho Irish capital arc guarded by troops,
nnd machine guns havo been mounted upon
the roofs of many buildings to sweep tho
streets. The proclamation, stating thnt
civil law has been suspended, makes' It
evident thatthe Sinn Foln members, who
took part In tho uprising, wl)t bo tried for
; QUICK NEWS
RUSSIAN AIRMEN SHELL CONSTANTINOPLE
ATHENS, April 27. Russian airships have bombarded Con
ctnntinople destroying? n powder factory.
ATTACK ON REGISTRATION LISTS UPHELD IN PART
The hearing of petitions to strike nllegcd fraudulent names from
the registration lists begnn todny. Out of 05 3d Ward petitions heard,
40 names were found to be properly uglsttrcd) wliHe deaths nud ro
mcrvnls accounted for irregularities among the lemaiiilng as.
THREE NEUTRAL SHIPS, LIGHT TONNAGE, BLOWNTJP
LONDON, April 27. Tho blowing up of threo ships, two Dutch and one Nor-
weglan, was reported today in dispatches to Lloyds Marino Agency.. The Dutch
ships wero tho Dubhc, 3233 tons, and tho Maashaven, 2609 tons. Both hailed
from Rotterdam. The Norwegian victim was tho Stromnnaes, which blow up
off South Jedsen, It Is belloved thnt all struck mines.
U. S. TREASURY GETS $5000 "CONSCIENCE" PAYMENT
WASHINGTON, April 27. An envelope containing $5000, contributed to thp
consclenco fund, was received at tho Treasury Department today. It wan orto
of tho largost contributions to that fund ever received. No word of explanation
accompanied tho money, which was In nvo $1000 gold certificates.
CINCINNATI VOTES $G,000,000 FOR BELT LINE
CINCINNATI, April 27. Cincinnati voters, by a majority of about 8 to 1,
havo approved a project to issue bond3 to tho amount of $6,000,000 for the pur
pose of building a belt line railway around the city and also to erect a terminal
station for the entrance of lntcrurban lfnes.
Continued on Tate Tour, Column rite
HELEN KELLER LISTENS TO CARUSO THROUGH HER FINGERS
N :-; ''-" V '""'I. v BP1 WvS.''
Tho weekly statement of CityATrcaurcc qjViiliam McCoach shows that tha
receipts, .amounted 0383,622,7.1. and. tpayroVnts'to. ?42ir.6zXJwhlch. with
' :5.reS3'7&Wjy yr-ri-r -.' "' j
-ry.-.- -;- -- ; ; -v . -
POSTOFFICE ADDS 24 TO MOTORTRUCK FLEET
Twenty-four new motorcars are to bo added.tohhp, Philadelphia postal scnica
equipment wlthm tho next two weeks. accordIntiNannounccment made today
by F. B. Frazlor, postal expert from Washlngtonhwas largely instrumental
In effecting tlie recent reorganization of the postomcjMj.jhls city: When tho new
autpmobllcs are put In sorvico tho Philadelphia posjpfjkje; Win" have a fast,, fleet
of 85 motorcars, all Government-owned, a larger number than any other city in
tho United States, except Chicago, Mr, Frailer said. '
$5,146,969.39 IN jOHJY TREASURY
ii , ., , Photo by Underwood Underwood,
ttJ i n0j u-ean tho IanVe.nt,.of Samson from "Samson nnd Delilah," the famous blind nnd deaf
woman placed her-fingers on his lips and throat and whispered, "Wonderful, wonderful! Though I can-
not see your face, I can feel the pathos of your song."
PRUSSIAN LOSSES INCREASED TO. 2.518.2G4
., AMSTfirAJr,.' April 27.-Th6. latest official caaualtv lists r mihlishi. m n-n.,
'.many Increase 'to 2,518,26.4 the total of Prussian losses during the war. This
iouil inciuqes kiiicu wounqeti And missing. It does not comprise the losses of
tho Saxon, Bavarian or Wuerttemburg armies,
.
GERMANS CONFESS GUILT IN FIRE-BOMB PLOT
NEW YORK, April 27. Complete confessions, given in return for immunity,,
have been made by two of the eight Germans recently arrested.ln tho nllpeprl
conspiracy to placo fire-bombs aboard munitions, ships. They hove ,told their
story to tho Federal Grand Jury. This was made known lost night by Assistant
United States District Attorney Roger B. Wood. In charge of the investigation
of alleged German plots. Tho two men aro Captain Charles von Klelst and
Ernest Becker, an electrician aboard the German steamship Frledrfch der Grosso,
tied up nt Iloboken. whero the bombs alleged to have been placed on various
ships wero partly manufactured.
BULGARIAN PATROL CROSSES GREEK BORDER
PARIS. April 27. A Bulgarian patrol penetrated the region of KukuBh, In
northeastern Greece, and carried off four Greek refugees, a Havas dispatch from
Salonlca says. Over tho remainder of the front no actions are under way with tho
exception of skirmishes.
Continued on Pai t'uur. Column Two
LACAPITALETURCAE'
ATTACCATADALL'ALTO
AVOIDS SLAYER'S FATE,
DIES OF HEAP DISEASE
Harry Chappelle; Wife Mur
derer in Eastern Penitentiary,
Dies of Shock After Burns
Un
Sottomarino Inglese
Stato Affondato nel
Mare del Nord
E'
Continued on rase Four, Column Two
' THEWEATHER
FORECAST
Fox Philadelphia and vicinity-r.
Generally cloudy and continued cool
tonight and Friday with moderate
northerly winds.
For details see page 13. '
I)ST AND FOUND
a. u aui iu. iUA.uuurK. Jin Ddritona ur
"en", Ilnt necollatlng tiiU toclc. u4
lUtfrW-N America, SUI Ohmtnut H .PnuaT
jtiuuw-iii wruwo iFrcicr. won soot jo. I
breMt IJOrewaM. Jtetttn) tu SJ9 ClowSji
BUuc ljf aw) FuumJ. 4d on rf II
i
Un telegramma da Atene dice che avla.
'fori russl haripo volato su Constantinopolt
e l'hanno botnbardata dall'alto riuscepdo
a dlatruegere una fabbrica dl esploslvt. La
capitals turca aveva avuto Hllre volte la
ylsjta dl! aviator! ajleatl ed II regalo dl
bonibe lasclate cadere su stablllmentl
mllifarl e suite fortlflcazlonl.
tsotlzie da Londra dlcono che 11 sotto
marino Inglese. '-B-22" e stato affondato
pel Slare del Nord, ma non dice, se per
nvere urtato contro una mlna o per essere
stato, attaccato o per ajtra ragione. Sol
tanto due uomlal el sono salvati dell'ln.
tero equipagglo, dice II comunlcato ultt
dale. Nulla 41 nuovp pi ba dalla front e Ital
ian, non eaendo lerisera stato pubbllcato
alc,ua comuijlcato uftlclale a Roma. II
comunlcato austrlaco dice Inveca ch ell
austrlact banno occupato ua puato dl
arpeggio sulle pendlcl del Col dl ijn,.
she r'l ttallaul hanno pronunclato un at-
ivl:u uciia aqna at xjooerao .
(Leaeera in 4a nAirfiii altr a i.. ...
sgUate notlii ulia guerra. jn itallano.j
Harry Chappelle, serving a sentence for
wife-murder In the Eastern Penitentiary,
died In that Institution from shock Inci
dental to scalds received last night while
making repairs to a caldron useif for cook
ing. According to. Warden Mclenty, Chap,
pelle's death was not due to'the burns.
which were dressed by the prison physi
cian and appeared to be trivial. He was
corking a rivet on the caldron and the
job was about completed. He asked that
steam be turned Into the caldron to ascer
tain if the rivet was tight.
The sudden Influx of the hot vapor Into
the cooled metal caused the ''dished" boU
torn of the caldron to swell upward, scat
tering the steam In all directions. Chap
pelle's hands and feet were splashed, but
otherwise he appeared to suffer no Injury.
Prompt treatment was administered at the
infirmary, and Chappelle's recovery In a
day or two wa expected. Less than an
hour after his admission he showed signs
of collapse and uleu within a few minutes.
Heart weakness la believed to have caused
his death, but the Coroner will make a
post-mortem examination.
Chappelle was admitted to the peniten
tiary on June SB, 1916, under a sentence
of not less than 14 and not more than )$
years, for second degree murder.
Qn September J 5. 191 J, Chappelle, then
living at 20S North Satford street, shot
and killed -hU wife, Millie, 3 yean old.
during a, quarrel at their breakfast table.
The woman ws shot in the heart and
right arm, dying instantly. After killing
her. Chappelle nred a bullet Into his fore
head. H remained In the Vet PhlladelXJ
pnia uomsopjumc nospitai many weeks
before bis condition permitted his arrelgn
meat on the murder charge. He was triad
three ttipi, tb first ordeal resulting in a
verdict of guilty in the first degree, the
second In a disagreement of the jury, and
the third in th icoo.d-degre verdict, on
which he waa senttneed.
FRENCH REPULSE
GERMAN ASSAULT
IN VAUX SECTOR
Fierce Artillery Action on
Verdun Front Presages
Great Attack
DREAM WARNS FATHER
BEFORE BABE IS HURT
Child Severely Scalded Despite
Mother's Vigilance After
Vision of Death v
BOTH SIDES REINFORCED
PARIS. April ST.
The German bombardment of the Ver.
dun front is increasing In violence, and it
is believed tha,t massed attacks, which
usually follow such a terrific cannonade.
wilt be launched tonight or tomorrow. It
is understood In Paris that, as May 6 Is
the birthday of Crown Prince Frederick
"William, the Kaiser Is' anxious to capture
Verdun by that date, or secure dominating
positions for the German troops that will
assure their final victory.
The official communique, Issued this aft
ernoon, reports only one Infantry attack
by the Germans. This was made In the
Vaux sector by small forces and was re
pulsed. '
According to the communique, the Ger
mans centred their bombardment last
night on tho French position!) near Avo
court and at Cote du Polvre (Pepper
Heights). These two points, situated on
the west and east banks of the Meuse
River, respectively, are key positions In
the defense of the French fortress.
The fighting during the nine days that
are to elapse before the Crown Prince
celebrates hi birthday Is expected to
surpass In fierceness all the sanguinary
conflicts that have marked previous Ger
man operations against Verdun. Immense
French forces, supported by Russian re
inforcements, have been concentrated to
meet the attack.
' The Hermans have brought up freah
troops atao. Tip Teuton military road,i
have for sveral days been bringing larz?
The dream of Alexander Coledy, of iSi
New Market street, that his Infant son
would die today, may come true. When
L left for Just a moment by his mother, the
oaoy ten into a tub of scalding water and
received Injuries from which he is not
expected to recover,
Mrs. Coledy had filled a baby's iathtub
with the scalding water. Alexander Jr.,
Just 18 months old, was playing nearby.
He saw the steam rising from the little
tub and toddled over to'lt. His screams
attracted his mother, who was .getting
things ready for the Infant's bath ' Plung
ing her arms (nto the scalding water, she
lifted the baby out and ran to the street.
A sympathetic nefshhnf imimnr n
passing, automobile, and mother and child
wera miten 10 tne Jtoosevelt Hospital,
Dr. Frank Boston did all that was pos
sible for both the Infant and his mother.
Tha baby was scalded so severely that he
cannot recover It Is believed. Mrs,
Coledy's arms were also scalded, and she
was compelled to remain at the hospital.
The father qf the child said today he
ureameu last night that the baby would
meet with death, For weeks he had been
worrying about tha Infant. Each day ha
cautioned his wife to keep a close watch
on him.
When he left home this morning Coledy
told his wife of his dream. She. too, was
much Impressed with it, and followed
every move of the Infant closely.
It was when she. turned for an Instant
to get soma cold water for his bath that he
felt In tho tub.
Knights of Columbus' Editor Dies
OltANQg. N. J.. April ST Daniel P.
Toomey, publisher of the Columblad. the
official paper of the Knights of Columbus,
died- at his home In East Orange today.
He was born In Ireland In 1883. He was
widely known to Irishmen throughout the
United States. In 15S! be wag elected a
member of the Massachusetts legislature.
2000 HASTINGS STRIKERS RETURN TO WORK
HAST1NGS-ON-HUDSON, April 27. More than 2000 workers In the planta
of tho National Tube nnd Conduit Company here who hove been on strike for
higher wages and who voted yesterday to accept the company's offer of 2 cents
an hour increase, returned to work today. Four companies of the National
Guard called here to stop rioting In the streets nnd near the factories began
to leave this morning. Tho company from Flushing, L. I., will remain on guard
- " .7 wnbl uuuuugfi mere is no need ror their presence.
PERU TO GET APOLOGY FOR McADOO'S FLIGHT
WASHINGTON. April 27,-The Stato Department will send an apology to
the Government 0 Peru If n protest Is made against the unceremonious de
parture of Secretary of the Treasury McAdoo from Lima. The department will
offer Us assurance that no alight was Intended. Neither the department nor tha
Peruvian Legation has received the protest reported sent to Washington as a
result of the incident ,
MEAT SIXTY CENTS A POUND IN BERLIN
LONDON. April 27.-The Vorwaerts, of Berlin, Is quoted in a Reqter dis
patch from Amsterdam as saying that the most significant development of tho
Easter holidays for the people of Berlin was the steadily growing scarcity of
meat. Housewives rushed from shop to shop, the Vorwaerts says, in order to
obtain at least a piece of meat. Those who were able to buy pork, which la
aold by the municipality at a relatively cheap price, went home happy, but thero
was dissatisfaction on the part of those who were compelled to buy the meat
which sells for 3 marka (60 cents) a pound and also among those who went homo
empty handed. a .
qoatlased ea rate rr, Feliiaw 0n K came hero about ia yoaj-s ago.
DEMOCRATS UNABLE TO AGREE ON PHILIPPINES
r VASWI.NGT0N' Apr)1 2.-Pesplte the reading of a letter from,, President
Wilson urging favorable action on tho Senate bill, the House Democrats, in
caucus last night, failed to reach an agreement on the Philippine Independence
measure and took a recesuntll tonight, when attempts will be made to prevent a
!trgun,mb.er f pemocrats from ,eavlns the party reservation and Jeopardizing
the Philippine measure. There were reports last nigh that about 19 Democrats
are now threatening to absolve themselves from tlie caucus action. '
BOLIVIAN INDIANS SLAY AMERICAN ADVENTURER
BUENOS AIRESAprll 27. Captain Frits Duquesne. of New York, noted
adventurer and soldier of fortum. has been killed in a battle with Indians on the
Bolivian frontier, ills command was dispersed by the attacking band, which
captured all the supplies of thf expedition. This Is the first word regarding
Captain Duquesne since he left New York In December, U13,wl'tU a motion
picture equipment to follow C.:onel Theodore Roosevelt Into South America.
His wife is tald to have pone with hlmfbut whether she has also been killed
or Is In South America has not been learned.
CRISIS SENDS SHIPPING SHARES DOWN IN BERLIN
LONDON. April 17. The Cqpenhagen correspondent of tha Exchange Tele
graph Company sends- ths following dispatch: "A, semiofficial telegram from
Berlin Indicates 4hat shipping shares havftdropped to figures hitherto unknown,
as a result of the crisis with America which Js regarded as pf the utmost; gravity,
though official circle .cootlnys to hope for an adjustment of tha difference
Responsible German statesmen sr continuing the negotiation, a targe, numbsr
gt telegrams being sent to and received from, Wssldngton daily.
J1
i
4
i3'.apw.5il
