Stilt.
ORECAST.
IT SHINES FOPv ALL
lowers to-ti : con!
tomorrow.
terday, 62; lowest, 47.
Highest temp
retailed weather,
d marine rcpoi t on px 1 .".
VOL. LXXXIII. NO. 240.
NEW YORK, THURSDAY, APRIL 27, 1916. Copyright, 1916, bj tie Sun Printing and Publishing Asiodntton.
PRICE TWO CENTS.
THE IMKIlflF"?
mall 5
SCOTT TOLD TO
ASK OBREGON'S
AID IN CHASE
linker Sa.vs Instructions
i
fall for Cordial and Com- i
plete Cooperation.
MINISTER TO UK
IX Jl'AREZ TO-DAY ,
lYmlinir Conference Xejjo
tiiitious for Withdrawal
Will Stop.
W iiimitu. April 26. Full Insttuc
tloiis to lien. Hugh I.. Scoit, Chief of
tuff, to govern lilm in IiIh coining con-
ferences with (!on, Ubregon, Minister of I
War of Mexico, were telegraphed by,
secretary or War Maker to-night. They '
asre drawn up following .4 conference
between Mr, Maker and Secrctaiy nf
.tat Lansing. While neither of these
ofllclals would disjose thf nature of the i
Instructions, Secretary Hakcr said: '
"The instructions to Oen. Scott aie to'
discuss the basis of (he most cardial and
complete cooperation In the attainment
of their conimon object."
It Is understood that lien. Scott has
been told to call (Jen. Obiegoii's atten
tion to the original order. lsued to lien. '
ftinston to the effect that the American
troops would be withdrawn either as
soon as Villa was captured and his fol
lowers dispersed or as soon as the
forces of the de facto io eminent were
In compete control of the situation.
He will be exheeted to call iittmtln,.
I to to-day's olllclul despatches utMicern-
mi lights at Tomachlc ami Coeomo
rajile, as Indicating that the bindlts
have not been dispersed and to the lack i
it evidence that Villa has been killed. 1
. a means of hastening the date of 1
tlie withdrawal of tin. American expedi
tion (ion. Scott. It In understood. Is to
i;nft that ile facto tlovernment
. ia.-e .,11 available Hoops :n the ticld In
MUinrni Chihuahua, which, operating In
'njunctlon with the mcricait forces,
grit quickl) corner the bandit leader
ami wijM- out his follow els.
Ccn. Scott, It is said. Is expected to I
Impress upon lien. uhregoii the fa. t
hat whereas the I'nlted States exer- i
cisel unl.mltod patience, during the time
i' the bandit activities were limited !
to he- .Mexican side of the border. It '
,.i it under nn clrcum-dunies
t lla's attack on Columbus to go
u iputi he.i nor to retail the expedition
" " i ii. him until absolute and ef
'f e assurances were obtained acniiist
x r j. ,,f holder outrages.
Vt ins the result of the .onfetenie
he Department l. still withhold.'
foiin.il reply to Carranza's note
i.op us n withdrawal of the American
epe- from Mexican territory. .Me.m
'n.e 'iie War Dcpartmen; Is proceeding
i Its .irriiiizements t" keep the Amer-'
,.n for e well pioiisloued and, accord
's 'o olll.i.il reports, there Is at present
enough applies at the ill.pos.i of lien.
"cr-h:u. to enable the troops to remain ,
aru.j. hn border until May 15.
W aere the confcieiice la to take place
b it been detlnitely made known. At
M i .i 1'mbassy It Is now- exacted
h.i (irti. iiireaon will reach Kauie i
'"j to-ught. at.il that the meeting may i
p. a there Instead of HI lao. j
T .! Private Klchellierger of the
" '. rtli r.ivalry, whi disappeared
'in 'nr the lighting at Parral, became
' 'i'.I unbilauccd and wandered
fmm i . 'oinmund Is the conclusion re- '
. '.ed to he War Department to-day by
'n I'unston The latter declared that
i erv effort i bchig made with the co
'pfat of the piesldentc of I'arral to
Iocj'c the misslns man. k
ODIIEGON IN TORREON.
Hipeeteil In flench Jl.nren To
nluhl for l'n 11 fr retire,
ft I'.s.- Te.x., April 28. The border
a e ted to. night over the euinlug
Herein e between Hens. Scott and
' I'egon over the Mexican situation,
le'i "l.ivira asserted this afternoon
' ' 'ion. Obregon would be in Juarez
to-1 .'row- night. tVn. Obregon will
"i h Tjitcoii to-night, there to be
Med ,y (jfn, Trevino, and come at
i till 1-.1SO
'If 'Mu.irilo lluqtier. w ho goes under
V al i -s of I'eiev (iaker and Ilcrmun
'i"Kei. m in j;i ;,Ktl j.,ii, i.i,i on
;j 1 1 "ii, Last night he ti lephoncd the ,
I I 'a i) police that he was about to j
!ir an .nvaslon of Mexico In behalf !
1 a but before the. Invasion could
s.' iIr' way he was behind the bars,
le f r-n.-rly served with Villa at u
" ' h1. ,,so forineilv served In the
''ii I mud states Cavalry as n pri-I
'" ' ii prior to that wua In the Her- '
IT ' .11 V he Srt s.
' " Jallis, rx-Villlstii Uenerul, re. i
'',,H the Hslil In the llltelestR of I
' ' I'.az. Was located to-day near
h n ist ot Juarez, on the Texas
"'I' wit f'.iriaiiza ofllclals said that'
n sutllc Kiitly fortllkd to pro
ttct It
II A I T FOR OBREGON.
'"I,.. .,.,, n, iMn.H.n will Then
,o to t'niiferfnei',
A ioRiii, Tex.. April 26. Fall
' e iidvices us to where the
'' e s in be held and the time
i.vt ., Siott and I'linstfui to cliaiigo
'ir i ..ok to-night, and they now ex
ii. ve beie lo-niorrow for either
' c I'.! t or III 1'aso.
I'll' in ileiierala hail arranged with
"i j.idu lo have a special car at
a.'ncii inl weilboiind .Southern Pacific
''no in spiiiinid Junction ami thence
iraln to Haglo Pass. Hut
'ffl idi lohices of the movements
''I liMi Obregon, indicating that he wan I
"in '""''"yi euused the American
"" o "i enangn ineir jnans.
Lil to-nlRht Ihe Instructions for the
Whi ! imiii,, from Washington hut
"IHiiis :ih to where or when the confer
We in 10 be held. (icn. Hcott refused to
jut .inythlng about tlie Instructions.
fl"y cone in node and required several
foaris tu decipher.
'itni Sunt and Kiinston believe that
J')' having hero at II o'clock to-morrow
crinixiii llicy will ne able to reach ellher
J-le I'hsn or 131 Paso us noon as Uen.
""'son docs.
Torrron is murh nearer to Ragle Tau
i:i Paso, It in believed that Oure-
Continued on TMr4 Pag.
MRS. ROGERS SET FREE
ON GROUND OF INSANITY
Prosecutor Dismisses Second Indictment and Will Not
Press Case Against Husband Jury
Is Out Two Hours.
"No
Ktilll; mi llio ground nf In-
saulty."
Such w;i ,c terdict tcttirucd by Hie
Juiy at 3:3m u'cloik jcstelilay aftcinoon,
hardly llfty-threo hour after Mrs. Ida
SnllTcn Coger. had been airalKncd In the
Ilronx Supremo Court on chaises of
poisonliiB her baby son sixteen months
ago. The Jury was out less than two
hours.
Accoidim to the prosecuting authori
ties, there is no possibility that Mm.
Itosers will lie sent to an asylum for the
criminal Insane, .ilthouh the Jury's ver
dict was, "Not sullt because of In
sanlt.." This means, members of the
District AttorneV staff said, that Mrs
lionets was held to be Insane only at
the time of the commission of the iiil
The Jury considered her to be of sound
niitid now.
All through the trial Mrs ItoRers had
sat a iilil, black draped figure, silent,
with unseeliiR eyes, In her chair before
the Judge. She still sat rigid, her ecs
blank, as the Jury tiled Into the room.
Lorlys lllton lingers, who sat beside bis
wife, trembled violently and placed h.s
arm nbout her as .lust Ice Tompkins In
tiulred whether or not the Jury had ar
rived at a verdict, and the old mother
of her stanch friend and best witness.
Mrs. II. I.eroy Sea. who guarded her
other side, bent forward and whispered
encouragement.
Mrs. Itogets closed her ees and then,
as the foreman of the Jui. lMward
Storck, spoke the words that made her
a flee woman she diopped her face
upon her hands mid the tears trickled
throURh her lingers. Kofiets broke Into
weeping. Tiieie was a murmur of ap
pioval for the vetdlet from the specta
tors who thronged the room, which the
Justice ipilckl) iiuelbd, and one of the
shortest murder trials in the history of
ciiniln.il piocedure w.ui ended
III llejnlcr nl Outcome.
I'robablv not ti soul connected with
the case but was heartily rejoiced at Its
outcome. District Attorney Martin,
though lie put up a strong tight and
made his closing address to the Jury n
mantel piece of Invective, confessed after
all was over that he hadn't wanted for
a minute to win.
"Aren't ou glad she's freed "' some
one asked him.
"Down hero I am," he said, tapping
his expansive front somewhere In the
region of his heart. "I had to do my
duty and prosecute Mrs. Itogcra to the
best of my ability, but It's, my feeling
that ilie has suffered enough. In the
loss of her little children. she has suf
fered for whatever she did."
Sheriff U'llrlen, who saw Mrs Honors
often when she was his prisoner after
leaving Lebanon Hospital, openlv re
joiced. "She was "even months In Jail heie."
he said. "That was nuue punishment ,
than she dc-ervcd She's a tine woman "
The District Attorney piovcd his '
readiness to let Mrs. Kogers go by mov
ing Instantly after the verdict for the
dismissal of the fecund Indictment, for
the polsonlns of her baby daughter. Jus
tice Tompkins aitreed. '
There Is also an Indictment against
Mr. lingers for violation of the white
slave net. but Mr Martin said the fait
that hlnce this charge was made he had
married the mother of bis children prob
nbly would render this Invalid At least
he did not expect to press It Itogi rs, i
however, ascrted before leaving the '
court room that he wished to be tried.
"i want to meet the elrirse and d.s-
ptovc It," he said.
Will Iteeiipernle In Coiiiilr.
I.ewi Stu'yvesant. Chanter. Mrs.
Itogers's lawyer, took lier and her hus
band away In his automobile. They
went to the Itogers apartment on upper
Ilioadway, but Mr. Chanter said the twu
would soon go to the country with their
elght-montlui-old baby daughter, to en
able Mrs. Itosers to recover from the
strain.
"Somewhere where theie ate plenty of
flower," s-ald the lawyer.
Mrs. Kogers wasn't allowed to be
atked a single question b reporters.
"We don't dare," raid Mr. Ilogets.
"She has a great deal of self-continl,
but it has been strained to the brenkin?
point. She can't stand one grain more."
Itogets Intends to take up his law
practice ,n Manhattan. lie had a line
leioniinendatloii of his skill, at least
fiom Dlstri t Attorney Mai tin. w ho told
the jur that "Ilogors's line hand" wan
Visible lit the "case of the defence," that
"Uogtras skilled coaching" was vislblo
In the friendly altitude of th Lebanon
Hospital plii'ians and attendants and
In tho tejtitnon they gave.
Lebanon Hospital canio In for a good
shale of the scathing remarks with
which Mr Mai tin's mminiing up was
packed.
"1 as!: joii did these doctors seem
fair?" b thundered. "Swear ng that
this woman took twentj-two giains of
bichloride of nieiviiiy, when It i well
known that one grain will kill be.vond
doubt. If this hasn't been a trained up
:a$v I'd Just like to see one."
ItoKcrs rerel trrniKiicil,
Lorlvs i:iton Kogers twisted in hh
Chair, his face Hushed and his hands
clenched an the Dlstilcl Attorney de
nounccd him. Mis. Itogers did not seem
to hear.
"Vou hear a lot these das about af
finities and soul mates." Hhouted Mr.
Martin "Well, that's stuff for hysteilcal
wrlteis. Hut If ou acquit thin woman
you place the seal of your approval on a
filthy, lotten mode of life; on tho kind
of life that is naturally followed by
murder.'
The defence of Insanlt). .Mr. Martin as
serted, was trumped up because It was
the only possible one, ltogeiM, he told
the Jury, was on the point of leaving the
mother or his children, and It was this
feai that made her Mil them,
ti;.u.lt..u u.s !r:ivhi bis mis.
tress, tlrlnn of hoi tho old story. ,
.uiii ihu District Attorney, "and Ihli .
prospect Inspired tho frenzy that led to
t,a murder. Waste no sympathy on
tills woman, lilve your sympathy to
those slain babies and to llogeiH'H real
wife, tlm wife who lived on lllverslde
Drive."
ThW wife. Mrs. rildilnigs llogeiii. did
not nppeur In court, though .Mr Martin
made an effort to Mini her. The tlrst
wife, Mrs. Anna ltoiuenior Itogers, was,
among tlie spectators yesterday, weeping
openly, apparently with relief, when the
verdict was announced.
Mr. Chanlcr'n addiess to the Jury wm
very short and quiet, Ho contended that
the prosecution hud neither attempted to
reach the. truth nor summoned witnesses
who could throw any light upon It, lie
laid special 'tress on the admission by
Dr. Menaa S. Qrtgory, uromoncd in tht
cap icily of al.cnl"! b.v the State, that h
.had tic. ci known of a loving mother kill
ing he. ihllilten without cause who Wat
not Insane. This was the only time
vv. en Mis. IJjger" 1 st her siony self
control. She liter,- down Iter veil then
at d wept
Mr. Chanter asked the Jus y. m.mlej
men all, to remember that afiproaihliiK
motherhood often c.uhps mental derange
ment As to Itogers he said that nhlla
ho was not theie to defend him he would
have it reniembeted that since the mo
ment of the tragedy he, had done every
thing in his power to lemedy any wrong
he might have done
Just iie Tompkins's cl.arite swept away
ii large part of the District Attorney's
last aigunients, for he specially Instructed
the. Jury that thev were to decide the
cue without prejudne because of the
life Rogers was ,ucue.l of living. Ho
emphasized that the burden of proof
lc-tcd wit.i the proVectitlnii.
The July took lluec ballot'. The first
.stood '.' r.r acquittal, ; for conviction
and I blank
LORLYS ROGICRS ANGRY.
njs, llroiit Prosecutor Hoe .Not
Hare to l'r Mini.
l.o'U IT Itogers, the husband, made
a bitb r attacK upot D.stUi t Attorney
Mattln last night after leading a state
ment attributed to the llronx ptosecu
tor that he sympathized with Mrs.
Itogers Itogers said the prosecutor had
shown his "sympithy" by relentless per
secution throughout of both his wife and
hlmsilf.
lie was patllfilarly lesentful over the
futther statement that he (ItoRers) u
not to be tried on the charge in an In.
dictmciit against lilm He said
"I have rend In the papers a sta:e.
inent purport!! s to come from Distikt
Attorne.v Mai tin. It does not surprise
nie. though coming from any other
source, under like circumstance. It
would In It he has the effronterv to
pretend be is pl,..isd with the verdict,
after having displayed, throughout the
entire trial a manifest animosity
"Now he announces th:V J'c will nr
ranee to dismiss the Indictment against
inc. What he means Is lie does not
dare to do au.v thing ele. He does not
dare to come Into court and submit the
evidence upon which that indictment
was luocned. He knows tit jit on the
evidence he had before the ( Irani Juiy
there is not u Dlstrlrt Attorney In tlie
State, ex, cptlng hlni-elf, who would have
permitted such an Indictment
"I do not rii the Indictment dis
missed I wish it to be ti ied. but Martin
will not dare to try It lie has been
ii f raid to tiy It fiom the very minute
It was found. He nevei Intended to try
It when be htalncd It.
"I nude every effort that I legslly
ould to get it tiled dunm; toe months
of lebni.ir. March, prll and May of
las' .veil .Martin now uses sul(Ufnt
events as a reason for not tiying the
case Hut if It wa i crime t tic rt it
Is a crime now and it Is his swo'n duty
to prosecute it. if he had a prima facie
case then he has It now. lie knows he
never had one and thciefote will not try
tue.
"I have no way nf forcing olm. but
what 1 .an do In this direction 1 will
d".
CANADIAN INQUIRY ON.
lien. Ilouhes nl IIiiimL lull Not
I filled lo lesllfv.
i'ittvw , Apnl iii The lo.val commis
sion appointed to Invesllijate charges
agaln.-t the Canadian shell committee In
loiineeMon with fure contracts placed In
the t'nltcd States began Its work to-day.
flcn. Sir Sam Hughes was on hand to
givv evidence, but was. not called.
To-day's pro.vrillngs were mostly for
mal, The only evidence of Importance
adduced was a letter from Sir Courtenay
Henti'it. fmaier Hrllish Consul. lieneral
at New York, to the shell committee,
warning it tint certain firms In the
I'nlted States '-eeklng Canadian unlets
weie under Heinian influence ami had no
intention of fulfl'.llnu contiacts.
JAPANESE FOR PRESIDENT.
ToMo I'nper Hope Sons of I'.x
linlrlntei. Will lie llonori-il.
Tokio. April 2fl. The Toco-.k Chnlm,
criticising the narrow patriotism nf Japa
nese who describe the expatriation of
their countrymen as d'sloyalty t,, (lie
throne, offers Us congratulations on the
solution of the double n.itionallt) qucs
Hi ii.
It Insists tint the making of good
American citizens out of Japanese Is to
bo welcomed from the broad point of
view of the development of the race and
suggests tint the possibility of Japanese-Americans
be'umlng Congressmen,
Cabinet member or Presidents will tend
to promote filendl) relations between
Japan and America
RIVER STEAMER SINKS f
The TroJnn, lloiinil for t limn, lie.
porleil In Distress.
According to a rumor which could not
be confirmed eaily this morning, the
People's Line steamer Trojan, one of the
largest of the Hudson Itlver passenger
boats, had sunk in the river near Haver
straw. The Trojan was bound noith for
Albany,
Telegraph and telephone messages ask
ing for news of the Trojan kept the
wiies up and down the ilvcr busv most
of the night, et no onu vva.s able to
locate tho tt:it.
line lepoit said that she was, agioimd
near Saugeiiles. Most of tlie Inquiries
came fiom villages and cities along the
liver this side or Poi!Rlirecple.
The Tiojau Is a cori.ianlou li'.a to
the llenssclaer. She .:. bel'eved to have
carried passengers on the nip, e(.u.
I.ir navigation in tlm ludsou oiicncd
recently.
MEAT COSTLY IN BERLIN.
Selllnu nt 7f Cent n Pounil, (
5er-
in nn Paper Sn,
Lo.Mion, April 26, A Iteiitcr despalch
llom Amsteidain quotes roiiciiri's of
II 'illn ny suylnit that ho moct (llgnltlc.int
ilevelnpinent of the Kustcr linlldays for
th people of Merlin wasi the steadily
growing scarcity of nieat
Those who were iiblo to buv pork,
which Is Nil, I bj tlm inunlcljiaMiy at a
relatively cheap price, went homo happy,
but theie vnn dissatisfaction (m the
part of those who were compelled to
buy the meat which weltn for three marks
(75 ccnls) a pound.
OHKAT HKAB nTRIN'f WATER,
lor. the Im ef sU (lull stopptrtd bottlta,
NEAR A FIST FIGHT
OVER FILIPINO BILL
llnil&n flniilinta4a Dnfnll 111 1
Cnuciis: Hitter Altcrcn- ,
tions Follow.
TAMMANY MEN 1-KAI)
Wilson's Loiter of Indorse-;
inent Ignored Threats to
Holt Aip I'tterod. j
Washington', April 26. Ilevolt over
the Philippine bill, which thieatcr.s to
disrupt the Democratic majority of the
House, luoke out to-day In the caucus I
called to consider that measuie and to '
0ptove the Clarke amendment stipulat
ing that tlie islands shall be left to their
own lesouiccs within four icarn.
A letter fiom the President, read to
the caucus by Clultmnn Jone.s of the
Insular Alf.ills Committee. approviCR tlie
Clarke (dan, lulled to stem tlm tide of
opposltioi On the eontiaiy a stormy
debate followed
Theie were, threats of bolting If the
leaders attempted to force the Issue and
angry Democrats Impeached the party
lotalty of their colleagues who gave
warultu that they would ils.-ogard the
caucus decree If It elected to tike the
course pointed out by the President
On the suggestion of Speaker Clark
a truco was declared and the caucus
halted the battle by an agreement to
meet again to-moriow nletit. In the
meantime telesiaphlc calls were sent out
If. nlt.ntn Xti,mS.- nt lha Timm.n.l'
and Boston delegations were summoned
by the rev 1 1 i t i-jt opposition to the lr.de
pendrr. e flan in the hope that by I
gathering U.eir n.itteied fotccs they may
;-in the tide uj.Unst the Administration, j
Wllnoii's VlrtT .Not fharetl.
The letter from the President, read by
l.epresentatlve Jones, expressed his
"unqualified Indorsement" of the mca-- '
lire and utged its passage withctit
amendment and without a discntin
Democratic vote It was received vvltii
some applause, but it toon became etl- '
dent Hint many membeis of the majority '
party In the House did not share the
President's views, ,
At the conclusion of Mr. Jones's spceih
urging the passage of the bill without
intendment in io'coidaticv with the Pres.
Ident's expressed views, llepresentative
Corny of New York, oi bi'ialf of the
Tammany delegation, oflcr! it n sub
stitute for the Jon-s lesolutlon of In-:
dorseincnt the following .
"Ilraolvitl, That no action be taken'
on this or any other bill affecting tho
Philippine Island and looking to the es- '
tnbllshmen: of the Independence of the
same and the withdrawal of the. nti
thoilty of the United States therefrom
rntll a full, fair and complete oppor-'
tunity be given for Jieailiiv" to all par
ties Interested In the Islands and whosn
Interests are lo be tvffecteil by the pro
lsosed legislation."
Mr Com) asserted that the "power
credit and potential force of the I'nlted
States'' was the bas.s upon which the
Philippine tiovernment lested and that If
this foundation were removed It would
collapse
Ilejiresentatlve lleflln of Alabama, an ,
Administration supporter, attempted to
cut short Mr Conry, whose friends came
to his lescue and a hubbub followed.
Toe Kentucky delegation then Joined
the standatd of the revolting Tammany
Democrats, anil Itepresentative Sherley
eharacterlzid the Independence nieafuic,
as a dangernui proosal.
Threat ii In Holt.
llepresi'jitntltc Fitzgerald of New
York followed, denouncing the bill and
lmpl)ing that he would oppose It no mat
ter what the caucus might do. Recal
citrant speeches weie also made by Hep.
resentatlves liallagher of Illinois and
Igoe of .Missouri, who asked why pro-1
hlbltlon should be forced on the island 1
if they were able to govern themselves.
llepresentative Ferris of Oklahoma en
tered the lists of the Administration and
demanded obedience to the caucus de.
inc. but when llepresentative (i.urett
of Teniieto-ce moved to lay the Conry res- ,
olutlon on the table the revolt became
so serious Hint Speaker Clark averted
threatened physical encounters by a pro-I
pos.il to adjourn until to-morrow eve
ning. The -ilteicatlojis continued even after
the caucus had adjourned between the
loyal Deti'ie-rata and the dissenting mem
bers, but there were no actual encounters.
The dlum nance In the cnucuw dis
closed that the opposition to the Philip- ,
pine independence! Is prepared to so to
extreme lengths and the situation as
sumes even a graver aspect because nf
the open opposition of the Tammany
delegation to the Administration, .
There are said to be at lenst thlrt)-'
live Democrats In the House who will ,
not submit to a caucus deciee to carry'
out the President's purpose. A fen ad
herents to the Independence bill might bo
obtained from the Itopuhllcan ranks, but
on the whole It Is predicted that the
minority will maud fairly solidly against
the proposition.
McADOO APOLOGY SOUGHT.
Peru . oil flea South tnierlcao
Countrlea of Aliened Slight.
Lima. April III. The Peruvian Min
ister or l'orcign Affairs sent to all South
American Governments to-day a detailed
statement of the alleged affront offtreel
to Peru by Secretary McAdoo and mem
bers of tho Intenattlonal High Commis
sion. The statement recited Ihe fact, that or
riuigetnents had been made foi the elab
orate entertainment of the visitors from
(he l.'nlted Slates at great expense, but
that the McAdoo paity departed a few
hours after teaching Cnllao without sat
isfactory reason, Tho newspapers an
nounced thai all South American repub
lics weie officially Informed of the In.
cldenl In the bciler that President Wll.
son would be foired to make some sort
of an apology for the action of Ihe Mc
tiloo purlv
Despatches from Chile to-day said that
the Chilean press Joins with the fress
of 1'eiii In denouncing the Incident here,
FIRE IN OTTAWA STORES.
1
1'iploalnna In Mlilal of niase He
en II I'Hiilaiiieal Jluliaing lire.
iiTTAWAi April 26, Klre started In thV)
military stores lalo to-night and there
have been several explosions,
The Parliament Ilulldlngs at Ottawa
were burned on tho night of Fobruary
3 Reports that the fire was tho re
sult of it German plot based on the
fact that the first burst of flame In
tho reading room of tho House of Com
mons was followed hy two violent ex
plosions were defined by the Dominion
authorities.
BERNSTORFF URGES GERMANY TO
YIELD; U. S. TO WARN CITIZENS
TO KEEP OFF -OF ARMED VESSELS
Delay in Settlement, How
over. Expected by Wash
ington Officials.
XO WOKD FROM GERARD
TO STATE DEPARTMENT
President Has Xiglit Con
ference With Sena
tor Stone.
KAISER ANXIOUS TO
PREVENT A RREAK
Washi.viiton, April 26. The veil of
secrecy which has covered the subma
rine situation has at last lifted suffi
ciently to permit a general Idea of the
present status liermany. It Is authori
tatively learned, feels I! cannot submit
without leservatlon to President Wil
son's demands and Is therifore delay
ing Its answer to the American note
white seeking a middle ground.
Count von Herr.storff, the Herman
mbasador, b-tleves a satisfactory com
promise car. be leached, siecretury of
State Lansing apparently does not share
the Ambassador's optimism. The posi- 1
lion wli ch Germany now takes alms at 1
deferring a . alegorlcal reply to the Pres. !
litem's demand that the Imperial Gov. I
ernment "Immediately declare and effect
an abandonment of present methods of
submarine waif.ire" until the two Gov
ernments, b.v means of exchanges of
views, can come to an understanding as
to whether the reply which Germany
submits would be acceptable to the
Cnlted States
Count ton r.eixstorff l understood to
bate cabled to-day suggestions to Her
iiit which be believes might aid In reach
ing this agreement Ambassador Ger
ard at Ilerlln has reported to Secretary
Lansing details of a conference he had
with Chancellor von Ilethmaun-HoUweg.
The Impiesslon which this report made
011 the State Department apparently was
not altogether satisfactory.
o Ckaatr, WanhltiKton Vlevr.
It was authoritatively sUtfd that It
had no changed the situation In the
slightest degree So far there is no In
dication that President Wilson or Seo-
etary Lansing arc regarding the crisis
as less serious than It was the day the
Ameilcan note was despatched to Iter-.
lin Plain Intimations were given out,
at the Slate Department that overcon-
fldence was not Justified. Optimistic-
Gerard had reassured the State Depart-'
inent were emphatically denied to-day ,
bv Secretarv Lansing.
President Wilson conferred to-night
with Senator Stone, chairman of the
I 1 ... I ... ... t. - t.'
r ui ciKii itrid.iuii- u 11 inn, 1 r nie .-.i-
What transpired at the conference
...oj .11 1 1 1,. I,,.. M.,
understands thai there 111.1v be consul-1
erable further delay before Germany Is
ready to meet the Issue. Count von
Hernstorrr said to-day that he considered
It very iloubtful if a reply from Germany
.w,.,v
week. Ambassador Gerard, it Is under-
stood, has been informed to the same
effect bv the German Chancellor.
It Is staled in diplomatic oleics
though not confirmed at the State. Depart-
ment that the publication to-day of the
American memo in regard to the status,
rVWoTrw; !: zr
lain points on the submarine Issue .
denied up before replying to the Amen-
can note.
Germany has -oiilfnded for some
months that theie was a direct con-
nectlon between submarine warfare and
.irms carried bv Hrltlsh merchant.Tien.
U,rCerh1a'GnieTinS
matter up with the I'nlted States
, ..,.,1,11,11.1, h. (t,
an
Hi
with
American Government stood on what
Germany has elescrlbed as the illegal
arming of merchantmen for offen-e "
I', i, .Von nn Iteeord,
Tlie Lnlted States heietofore has not
made public Its position 011 the latest
points raised by Germany and the memo
makes the stand of the American Gov-
npxm.nl now n mutter of record.
There was a striking contrast to-night
between the optimism at the German
nmbassy and tho lack of It at the State
Department The cemsensus Is that the
seriousness of tho situation now de
pends on the stand President Wilson
will take with regard to his original
ebsmatid that Germany abandon Its
meeent submarine methods. Tlie hoiie,!"11'"1 Is Justllled ill .substituting an
atmcars to have disappeared that Ger
many will submit ti this demand unless
the United States Is willing to so In
terpret It as to make It less far re.Kiilng
in scope than the President Intended.
The willingness on tho part of
Germany to make definite concessions
provided like concessions are obtained
from Great Ilrltaln Is made clear hy tlie
Imperial Government. It Is not willing
to surrender its submarlno weapon
against Great Ilrltaln without ccmipen
sation. TheTe Is much Interest to-nlgtht
In the statement that Count von Hern
slorff has cabled suggestion to Ilerlln
which he believes will avert the crisis.
The sincere desire of tho German
Ambassador to maintain friendly rela
tions between his country and tho l.'nlted
States despite oppcsltlon In certain
elides In Herlln Is generally recognize,!
here, His Judgment on the present
delicate situation Is considered sound
and It Is ""Id 'he Is In a position to
Urow the respective attitudes of the two
Governments st th present critical
moment.
Confidence In flernstorn.
'Pliere Is theref.i e. much confidence in'
the efforts he Is now making to avoid a
bleach Diplomatists cannot sen how he
can re'conclle, the Preridenl's demand for
the abandonment of Germany's present
methods of submarine warfaro with tlis
German determination not In any way to
curtail the effectiveness of this weapon.
One view Is that the Ambassador
has recommended that submarine opera
tions In the war lone be strictly mado
to conform to the rules of "cruiser war
fare," which Is admittedly sanctioned
by International law, pending an adjust
ment of the difficulty between the United
CMMnutd.oft ratal Pat,
WILSON OUTLINES STAND
OF U. S. ON ARMED SHIPS
Wasihnutov, April 2C. The follow-i Is tu hi; determined when visiting ncu
ing is the text of the submarine mem-1 waters and when tiuverslns the
, ,,. . . . , ., ,i,i seas having been Muted, It Is
orandum made public to-day by the Imlort,,nt lo coni,1Ucl. lhp riBl, nml
State Department. i duties of nctitruls and belligerents us I
"Hy dlrectlgn of the President a affected by the status of armed mcr-1
memorandum wa, prepared during
March, 19tii, in resrard to the status of
armed merchant vessels In neutral
ports and on the high seas. This ,
mi.man.iiii.im is .mw mnrin tnibllc n
a ut,if,n,nfit ..f l,lj Itn vero mnft t 'a rltti
Itude on that subject.
I "The status of an armed merchant
vessel of a belligerent Is lo be con-
I .. . - . ..I
sielercu irotn ttvo jtoiuis oi view; i irsi,,
from that of a neutral, when the vessel '
enters lt.s ports: and, second, from tliat i
of an enemy, when the vessel Is on ,
the high seas. ;
"First-. 'An armed merchant vessel!
In neutral port":
"1. It Is necessary for a neutral Gov -ernment
tu determine the status of
an armed hiercliant vessel of bolliger.
ent nationality which enters Its Juris
diction In order that the Government
may protect Itself from responsibility
for the destruction of life and prop
erty hy permitting Its ports to be used
as bases nf hostile operations by bet-(
llgercnt warships
"I, If the vessel carries a commts-
slon or order Issued by a belligerent
Government, and directing it under
penalty to conduct aggressive opera-j
tlons. or if It Is conclusively shown to
hav conducted such operations. It
should be regarded and treated as a
warship.
"3 If stimclent rvhlcntv Is wanting,
a neutral Government, in order to safe-
Kuard Itself from liability for failure
Ci nreiervi. its neiiir.illiv tnnv ren.lnorts as ttfaceab e armeil men-h.-.nt.
eonabiy presume from the fac the
status of aj armed merchant vessel
which frequents its waters. There
Is no settled rule of International law
as to the sufficiency of evidence to es
tabllsli such a presumption. As a te
suit a neutral Government must de
cide for Itself the sufficiency of the evi
dence which It requires to eletermlne
the character of tho vessel. For the,
guidance of its port olllcers and other;
ofllclals. t may thoreforo declare a ,
standard of evidence, but such stand-1
... .,,.. UiUOT 01 imtui
fare or modltied on account of the
circumstances of a particular ease.
These changes and modifications may
be made nt any time during the prog-
ress of the war, since th deterinlna-
lion of tlie status of an nt tiled mcr-
chunt vessel i neutral waters may
lfft''1 O"-' liability of a neutral Gm'ern-
nent.
"men snip on II Ik ti traa.
"Second An nni'eil merchant te.
scI on the Mgh
,' . 1 l "cwy tor a belligerent
to determine the status of au
armed merchant vessel of nn enemy
encountered on the high seas, since
1 the rights of life and property of
.
ueiuterenis unu neutrals on board the
' ... , tl , ,t
' 1. ...n ,0
" ""-"'i'.
! - Tne determination of warlike
character must rest sn no case upon
presumption, but upon coti.iusitv evi-
dence. because the responsibility for
' me destruction or i re and iirnuertv
, , ... .,
, JepencLs on the actual facts of the
caee, and cannot Is? avoided or lessened
u a suuieiarii 01 evioence vvnicii a uei-
llgerent may announce as creating a
prfsumptlon of hostile character. On
t,e 1)tlf,r ,laml t0 safeguar.l himself
rrieiltttty r unwjr
"'truclton of life and property, the
Iwlligerent should, In tlie absence of
conclusive evidence, act cm tho pre-
sumption that an armed merchantman
jH 0f peaceful character
... A lire1,in h.1.,.1 .nlu. ..n
. ' : '
' nn a.mamont on a
mcrchunt vessel of an enemy Is not a
sulllclent re.Lson for :i belllueient In
. declare It to be a warship and proceed
to attack It without regard to the
I rights of nersons on hoard c.meln.
rights of persons on board Conclu
sive evidence of a purpose to use the
armament for aggression Is essential.
Consequently an armament which a
neutral Government seeklii'- to nor.
r ;r,,
form its neutral duties, mat i.i-..s,o,.
to be InteniliHl for aggression, might in
I lart " the high seas be
. for protection. A neutral Gov
has no opportunity to determine tlie
purpose of up armament on a met' -
chant vessel unless there Is evidence in
tlie shin's ti.n.eru .,r .., I, ,.e .r
.... w, t'tiii (n vti.n tt.s ,w 1
un previous use. so imu llio l.ovcin-
aii.inui) ion en prcsiiiiipuon in nr-
riving at tho status of the merchant I
vessel. On the other hand, a bolllger-
ent warship can, on the high seas, test
by actual experience the purpose of an,
armament of an enemy merchant ves.
set, and sn determluo by direct evi-I
deuce the status of tho vessel, I
.-uiioi.iwy .
The status of an artneil incHiiant
vessel as 11 warsiiip 111 neutral vvateis
1 no sunns 01 sue 1 vessel as
warship on the high seas must 1
snip on the high seas must be de-
mined only upon conclusive evi-
ilceofiiRgri'sslvc pui pose, in the ah-
ico of which It is to be presumed
it the vessel li 1 ,,,, .. ,,.,1
11 ue vessel II. i .1 piivate and
termined
deuce
senc
inai me vessel 11: i : private
peaceful character unci it should be so
treated b.v an enemy warship.
"In brief, a neutral Government
may proceed upon the presumption
that nn nrmed merchant vessel of hoi
may ne determined m the absence of provided It was shown that the ner n"" ln l"" ""' '"""""'S state nent onl
documentary proof or conc'lulvo evi- sons ,,,1 h.im Cie put In .,ilto ,,f ,,'e.,'.',1're,', ,,lf Slr """T ''"-""'lt
elence of previous aggressive conduct, saf- tv ' ' ' M ?br"" ',-" 'V (i',n""'' ' ",',m"rl,n1
hv iiresiimntion derlvn.i (,,, ,.11 ,t, ,, , ' . . . 1 and a v csscl disguised ,ih IH1M1 1 ra. eii
'lie its , ccs ,,f I i" "" "" , "", rlKhl "' Hl,,k il1 t,i"!" "f a 'appeared 01, the west coast el Ire..,.,,!.
iiteiimM.imcs or the ease. neutral incrcliiintm m. it is claimed. 1 The submarine landed in .1 cIMi-Mb!,,
llgerent nationality Is armed Mr un- the ircntment of u warship hv an di
gression wh in a belligerent should I enn mid by the neutrula. Any pet-
" "
vessel Is united for ttrnlect I. in Knit, of
these presumptions may bo overcome
. ' " -
by evidence the first hy secondary
or collateral evidence, slneo tho fact
to be established Is negative in char -
acter; tho second by primary and ell
tect evidence, iilnce the fact to bo cs
tnbllshed Is posltlvo In chnrnctcr.
"The character of the evidence upon
which the statue ot an aimed mor
chMt vewel ot belUfeent nationality
Mnt vessels In neutral ports and on I
fi;'lH , , . I
Hrst --The relations of bolllgerenta
'"-Htrals as nftected by the status
of armed merchant vessels in neutral
! DOTtH ;
"L It appears let be the established
i ri11" f International taw that win-
snips oi n oeingereni may enter ncu-'
' ll-ll' ..,.1 tl.t I I
. "" i" nnnicu nin-
''iO' Hhtc upon condition that t'hcyl
leave, as a rule, within twenty-four
limn after their arrival.
"2. Helllyeient warships are also i n-
titled to lake em fuel once In three
months In ports of u neutral country.
"J. As a mode of enforrSng theso
rules a neutral lias the right to cause
bell.gerent warships falling to comply
with them, together with thdr olllcers:
and crews, to be Interned during the ,
remainder of the war.
"4. Merchantmen of belligerent na-i
tlonallty, armed only fur purposes of
protection against tho enemy, are en-
i titled to enter and leave neutral ports
j without hindrance sn tlie course ot
legitimate trade.
I "5. Armed merchantmen of belllgct -1
ent nationality under a commission or
orders of their tlovernment to u.se. un-
1 dor penalty, their armament for ng-
gresslve iuniocs. or merchantmen
which, without such commission or or -
der.s, have tisesl their armaments for
1 aggressive puritos. s. are not entitled
to the same hospitality 111 neutral
1 '
men
II reach of Itloelsftile.
SeniiiJ The relations of beii.ser
ents and neutrals ns affected by the,
tatu.s of armed merchant vessels on'
tile hluth seas'-
-, "1. Innocent neutral property et the
' hi'h yeas cannot legally be confiscated.
but is subject to inspection by a bel-
llgereitt. Resistance to inspection re-
move s Utls imniunity and subjects tho
property to condi tnnatlei by a prlso
i ",c ..s.i.n v
owners or neutral property.
"2. Neutral property engaged In con- defence of the realm amendment act
traband trade, breach of hlockude, or of 191.1. which gives to ,i Ihitlsh sub
unneutral service obtains the cliar.ic- J''' chatge.l with an offence under Du
ter of enemy property and is subjeot
I" seizure by 11 bellietere nt and cii-
, le111n.1t.011 by a prize court.
'. When hostile and Innocent prop-
, erty I., mixed, as tn the case of a neu-
, tr.il shijt carrying a cars" w Iilch is ell-
tindy or partly contraband, this fuot
can onlv I.e. ili ierm iieil hv insneei Inn "
Ipnocent property, continues the
mcmornndiim, if r.o per cent, contra
band, either in hulk or value, "im
presses It with enem.. character and
subjects it to seizure" nml prize court
condemnation
...
"Hnemy properlv including ships
. ,'" . "' ,'" "'V" "
aml s HiHiiys SUOjeel III seizure
miiii conaeiunailon liicro Is no ref
dress m the prize court. The only
means of avoiding lo-s Is hy (light or
resistance. ICnemy ships. ' therefote.
have the tight to arm for purpose of
-eir-itrntcctiim "
.,
Size of a vessel, strength of nrnu-
inent and Its defensive or offensive
101 ce lire immaterial, iiccoriling to the
I'nlted States view, 111 determln.ng
whether a hlp is .1 warship A war-
ship Is dellne.l as "., ves-'cl which,
u,ul,T rr1-? -r -rthr ,,f iw t:ov:
ernment Imposing penalties or en-
1 titling It to prize money, is armed for
the purpose of seeking and destroying
enemy ptopetty or hostile neutral
property on the high seas."
Itlght to visit and search .111,1 even
i.i,. .
.0 ;vthotu s,,,rcl, pro vldcd "hos.
character ot proper!) Is known,
I- conceded, provided the attacking
warship displays Its ll.is. Tlie memo-
'"anilum adds also that "right te
npture and rU-ht to prevent cap-
ture nte recognized as equally Justi-
lllblf " J"-"
,. ,
l.xercise of tie i.gnt to capture.
however, the paper poiir.s out. "is lint-
n-vcrthebss. b certain a. ptcd
"," ' I'.'.oo' 1 ini.eu on 1110 princi
HMlnd .-. n...,t.... I.. 1 .1. . . t
UM'd suU'lyl f h-"-""v and ,eg:,r, for In -
lovernment,"?""1 prp.i'i. rteu If there ,s 11-
I "lt l"W'1,l, thai "!"' f the prop.
1 Pr'5 's " '''"-'"'y c'iiar.ictci "
I ...
, 1 "Kl "IllU.
Attacking ships are comeded the
: right to use force if .1 merchantman ,,r
tieiiigerent natiem.Jitv. aware, of tlie
approach of an enemy waishlp uses
its armament to keep the enemy at a
distance, or If the meichantman re-
sls,.s r .lees alter being summoned to
surrender.
"If the merchantman tlnallv sur-
renders," tlie incmoiamluni lotitlnues
"lt may, 111 me case ot ,m enemy mcr-
cliaiilinaii, be .sunk, hut only If it Is
impossible to take it into pon. and
1 In any eiiiuiiistiinces is doubtful
".v. vessel engaged interiultteiitiv m 1 made prisoners. 0110 i.f w im w.w
roininerce." the pap, 1 conehidcs .'.,,,,, "' "''K',p '"ement The He, ,1.,., -sipj
,,,,,1,., ,,,.,!, , orders' of i s U''? U,(';',' '" ,m l'y a l;r'". " u S,I
Government I 111.0- ,u ,, , nnltv 1, 1..m 111. I.v r. xv "
ll"l"w " " l"inilt. Ill The nun con e,l vv.th ihe lb busier.
mitHII hit and attack Ho cuemt- n,.,.,,i 1 i.. imu 1. . . ...
putHiiln
mo iuuicMiiK enemy naval
craft possesses n status tainted with
11 hostile purpose which tt cannot
throw aside or assume ut wit!
"It should therefore, be considered
OR Oil Jll'llieil lllllille Vessel ,.e. I w... ..I....
son taking passage nn such 11 vessel
... ... ..
',111111.1 i-.ti.eci llllllllll 11V III HOC I 111
nun accorded persons who are on
hoard a warship A private vessel en-
gaged In seeking enemy n.tv.it craft,
1 without such a commission or nrilers
from its Government, stands in 11 p
latlon to the enemy similar lo that of
a civilian who (Ires upon tho organ
Ized military forces of 11 belligerent,
nml is entitled to no mote conslileritn
treatment," r
TROOPS HOLD
DUBLIN UNDER
MARTIAL LAW
Seize Ifebel Ilcniliiiinrlcra
and Keoccnpy SI. Ste
phen's Oreen.
ELEVEN" IXSUROEXTS
IfEPOIfTEl) KILLED
- -
.
JlOOll lOlVOIllCllt S f 10111 Ellr-
land and Itelfast Keach
Seat of Trouble.
DISTL RIJAXCES
' ' "
IV TMrs-T fV IPt'l I vn
' nii'ii i i ujiii:i,L
.Civil Trial IMyht Denied to
Those Concerned in the
Cprisiny.
l-o.x'lio.v, April 26 Pretnc j .h
stated In the House of C0111..1 ,ns to-day
' that Liberty Hall, the. heitdquarers ot
the sinn i.vi i.n,, .. 1. .1.11 1 u.
I Stephen's Green are in possession of tha
ir;tHt, .r0ops who hive thrown
' ' . ' ' .' ' . .
1 ,., .. ' , , , l'lc cl,y-
' """ulNI "'in, no saiu, ia
satisfactory, and the lest of Ireland la
seemingly undisturbed by the Dublin re
volt. Martial law has bien proclaimed
In Dublin county
Iteenforccments front England havn
reached the Urltish troops In Duolin, Mr.
Asqulth stated, and more Hoops have
.,. Hr.n, , t,',,iin ,,..u.l, rt,
Premier also said that Nationalist vol-
unteers at Diighda, tw ent) -set en miles
north of Dublin, were assisting the Gov.
eminent In lestoi ins order,
,1',aJ Government Intends to deal
,:lt0n t. (),.( onzrtt,. to-nlcht
suspending in lieland section 1 of tha
ait the tight to be iried by a , ,1' .ourt,
The pio i mi., t on h- ih-h t', .1 tlm
i.''"'?'1 uT!.:!"Mr '". '"''." 1 ',Kh
emergen, y' as s..c,ii.',1 in ubse ti. n 7
of the act. which enacts that 111 the event
of an Invasion or other spr 1.1I nill'tary
emergency ailsing out of the p'esen't
war the operation of section 1 tnnv li
suspended elthci generally or 111 a sped-
lld aiea
Mr. A-qtlltlt iihiloui' e.l that as a re
suit of the iivolt t i. si'nn l'ein So, let
had bent iio.'.aimi,l .: lliigal organi
zation and that ti e iiiciiiUts w mid lm
dealt with .1. cirdiiitil) .
Vltlw.iit-n 1 , A.. .,..,).
; . " .
. ' "" -I"''! ii. "in
light on til.' aitiial iiap:.i ni'ig- in Dub
lin sinie the rebels .hi M.uiita' at no, n
eaptiiied the po-t nitl. and . eita,n nt ier
secfoiis of tin .Itv. Hi rnl.tirilied tin
statement that the post otfne had been
n taken by the llritlslt fore -
Ti.
Lord I . I 1 1 ft 11 1 lti-iort.
foll.iw.ng ti'egr.im fion I
1!
vv iiunnrne, i.oril i.ietii, na-.t or lieland,
teceived .1, l...n,li,n io-il.iy
"The situation is satls'.t. t.u v . Stephen's)
"T" , h'V "''"j;"';-' 'vrn n'
'
premier A.nuitli read a t. .cgram -n
the House tin iifto noon tvh , h ; d ' ac
tlie t.iiels had 1,0 machine guns a- had
been reported He added that steps avu
1 nltcuty been take 11 by tlie autiioilMcs tu
1,.n.'M alt U1"'1 ''oii.'criicl l' the up
",,
TU r,om Tt , .
KVit). sas that ,, seusat.on has hivij
causcil there bv the .u-rist of 11 nroml.
nent member of the TiaUe Irish Vols
initee r. Austin Stack. An .1 couiitant
'n the General Po.t Oftl.-e ..t Dubi n.
"K r, ,, . '"" ' , " , ' :,r"
rested ltotb are cliarged w , cons
splracy In aiding the linpurtati'ii tit
,, from an enetm.
, Another man of unknown t. ni ipal.t"
has been arreted
His i.ltni.t) has)
I Mrtl lit.. til Hill.tl....-
not been ellsclns,.! l,tn Ut w i.i ran.
veved to riublln iitidei ,1 ccv is ort.
, , ; ''.V
, ,,;,,' u,.d!,v v'uustlne V.'
f'onis
Cliier
Secretary for Irelv.d. exptil'iitd the tie.,
icissli- for .1 r ,ul , nsoi Ui now.
fu'm '"-'land, bin sml that lm I oped the
restriction .011:. 1 s .011 be t elliot cd
Ml' lll'leli M.I tb.it It w is illffl, utfl
at presn.t to slate whcthci am touleel
1 to reieh Ireland were ni.eri nr eliiseH.
' "llt auneej mat he was going to Dubiiii
i lf vuld arrange for the trip
Tlut '!H 1,lllNl1 i"einineiit regards;
.n,r;s,;:nc',u", by',he '.iemom o
' pTemie su'ihh ".hi? sVe,. wereelnsi
1 taken to commtiulcato to neutral cotm
1 t-"''' tlie rial meaning of tho "nios. res
I c,'m "'" campaign. '
Crew lllevi I i llnlilrr.
In the House of liids loul
I.H11S.
boil thiee individuals.
of 1 hem
1 lug ixpedlllon now 111 tlm hands of tin
Government Include Sir Kocer 'ase"ieiit,
two lileli confi delates and ivv.qi) '.til
Germans composing tlie . rew
The chief linpottan, e of the ,;ipiu.t
lies 111 Ihe Ii Vii.ilions m, 1, In ,.1 ,,,, ex
tensive plot, having i.unill'Miii.iih i'i i,...
many. Iiil.iud and Aiinii. 1 1 sit
.viuei icaiiH aie saiu to nive .. ,;ii e
, nst111111e11t.il 111 liuauuiig ihe r. c niiion
uisiiuim 111.11 111 uii.iiu 11 nie n 1 . 111U011.
. lire mot eioent
The e'aptiiie of the expul lb
' -lm
ed .1 .,
A 1 1 o
.IW.Ilteil
1 he ma-
.en in-
navy secivt si rv ! o is iliiisi
markably clevii piece of w.iik
louioblle wllli Itish 1 or.redii.iti
Sir linger Casement a" ioie
iT.llle unit its oivup.inls were
secret sen ice tn. 11 W be 1
pint) of thiee muled lluv vv.lknl
iii
Ihe arms of their eneunes
Tlie expedlllon cunsisleil 11. 1 e f .
Bubroarlne and a l,10u ton Rlciuiiili.
