That Vacant House
Let The Times-Dispatch Find
You a Tenant?Now
66th YEAR
VOU'JIE G?
M'Mui:n ii7
RICHMOND, VA., THURSDAY, APRIL 27, 1916.
7>(/ T-D EfrW
Wonderful Little Business
Getters?Randolph I
FOURTEEN PAGES.
W?TB -CLOUDY
PRICE, TWO CENTS.
KAISER DESIRES |
10 FIND SOLUTION!
0E DIFFICULTIES;
Hopes to Follow Course
That Will Heal Breach
Between Two Countries.
BERLIN MORE OPTIMISTIC
OVER SUBMARINE TANGLE
Developments Impending Which;
Will Show Wish to Continue
Friendly Relations.
f; FRAUD STIIJ, IS SILKNT
,
Reply to American Xoto May Xot
He Delivered Vntll Next
Week.
HKUI.l.V, April fvlu wireless m
the Associated Press from a staff cor
respondent).?Tho Associated Pr?'Ms '
learns that developments ;iic impend*
inc "which demonstrate unmistakably
the desire of Kmpcror William to fol
low a course which will lead Germany
and the United Stater out of the pres
ent crislB. Tho situation is viewvl
more optimistically here.
Ambassador Gernrd Is sulll maintain
insr silence, following his latest < onfer- j
euro, with Chancellor von Bethmann
Hollweg. hut the Associated Press lias
been able to obtain information from
other sources indicating that the out-:
look is improved
The latest indications hip that the.
German reply t<? the American note
may not he delivered until next week.
wii,so.\ vrihi. iiopk.ki'i.
OK A.MICAUI.r SK'ITI.KMKNT;
WASHINOTOM. April 2*?President j
Wilson and Senator Stone, chairman of
the Foreign Relations Committee, dls
cussed for an hour to-night interna
tional questions facing (he United
Stales, including the submarine contro
versy with (ifrmany, the Mexican sit
nation and Japan's protest against fea
ture*; in tho House immigration hi!! 1
which will he taken up by the Senate
Immigration Committee on to-morrow
The conference was devoted chiefly tc
the (submarine issue. While Senatoi
Stone would not discuss the details. I
is known that eventualities which may'
follow the receipt of Germany's reply j
to the last note tent by the United.
Slates were gone over thoroughly '
The President has not given up hope
that a break hi diplomatic relations
with Germany may he avoided.
Senator Stone will lay the results nf
his conference with the /'resident be
fore the Foreign Relations Committo?,
11** left the conference apparently sat
isfied with its results.
Secretary Lansing received to-day a;
report from Ambassador Gerard In Ber
lin on a conference between the latter
and Chancellor von Bethmann-Hollweg.
The secretary would not discuss the
dispatch, except to say It was brief
itnd required no reply.
. Count von Bernstorff has sent to his
Foreign Ofllce suggestions on the sub
marine question which he hopes will
prevent a break in diplomatic relations
with tho United States. Tho sugges
tions were sent in response to a request
from Berlin, and will be considered at
a conference between the Imperial
Chancellor and the Kaiser.
* The publication by the State Depart-;
ment to-day of a declaration of the
American government's position on the
*rnied ship issue is expected to have
an important bearing on the submarine!
question as a whole. Oilif ials stated .
the position of tho United States was
made known in order that foreign gov- j
ernments might shape their courses ac- i
oordingly.
Caucmt Kail* to Agree.
W A S HIXGTO N. April 2fi?House
Democrats in caucus to-night were tin- j
able to agree upon the Philippine in- j
dependence bill, notwithstanding a let.- i
ter from President Wilson unequivo-'j
cafly indorsing the measure as it stood. !
After several speeches the caucus ad
journed until to-morrow night on tho
suggestion of Speaker Clark.
Klre In Military Stores.
OTTAWA, ONT? April 26.? Fire, has
broken out in the military stores here.
RICHMOND WINS BY |
UNEXPECTED RALLY
Opening Game of International
League Won After Buffalo
Had Long Lead.
RAIN FALLS CONTINUALLY
Showers Fail to Discourage 5,000
Fans, Who Demand That
Play Be Continued.
Intermittent showers dampened the
clothing. but not the ardor of the 5,000
fans who yesterday afternoon braved the
threatening weather to see the Interna
tional League inaugurate its second
campaign in this city. Even when the
spasmodic rain settled into a steady
downpour thousands stood with the
water boa tins: down upon them and
urged the umpires to keep the game
going. They were heeded, and as a
reward the Billsmtths fell on tho
champion Bisons and batted out an un
txpeoted victory, winning by the count
I of !? to f< In an abbreviated setto of
seven inning*
It was in the sixth inning, when the
nam'' was apparently doomed to be set
down in the lost column, that the Rich
mond batters suddenly awoke from
their lethargy and proceeded to fmnck
th?* ball to all corners of the lot. Rich
mond was, trailing with a three-run
handicap when. like a holt from the
blue, the base? were loaded and then
unloaded In rapid succession. When tho
climax was reached it was found that
no less than seven runners had tapped
the rubber.
The weather was directly In variance
with that of last year, and, conse
quently. the attendance figures were
considerably lower. Nevertheless, the
attendance waa remarkable when the
conditions are taken into consideration.
The turnstiles clicked behind 4,850 paid
admissions, which was far more than
the most optimistic had expected after
Old Sol had hidden himself behind a
hank of clouds and rain had started
falling several hours before the game
whs scheduled to start. .
HA IN WAS KAM.INti W1IKN
Kill.ST HAM. WAS I'iTCIIKI)
When the rtrst hall wns pitched
across tho plate drops of flno tain were
sprinkling the assembled fan?. As
Innincr bv inning passed the showers
increased In capacity. By the tifth
inning it was plainly to be seen that
everybody wa* in for a drenching, but
still the baseball-hungry fans huvig on.
The unips started to call the game,
but an angry howl arose from all sides.
In spite of the rain, they demanded
more, nnd, acceeding to the demand,'
the gamo continued.
Tho Blllsmiths came to bat, and
finally got to Bader, who had been j
pitching a p*?od game. The Buffalo!
twirler developed a streak of wildness, I
which was immediately taken advau- t
tage of When It was seen that he was i
done. Ty Tyson was rushed to the
rescue, but he undertook a new style of
delivery, and this ?as welcomed by a
fusillade of hefty clouts. He stuck it
out, but only after the game had been
put on Ice.
Humphries worked six Innings for
Richmond Me was touched up freely, !
eight i lean hits being made off his
delivery. He was taken out to permit |
a pinch bitter to perform, and Boss j
took bis place. He only worked ono I
inning, but escaped without yielding!
a hit.
Bader performed creditably until the |
*i\th. He had nothing on the ball, but j
his slow- lobs were Just the things'
necessary on n day like yesterday, i
The wet ball would slide from the bat, |
and pop llys were the result. Prao- j
tically every time he cut loose a fast
one it went far from the plate. Tyson,*
going in cold, opened with fast shoots,
and these wero simply murdered.
IN Sl'ITE OK WRATHKIl
PliAVIMS WAS Kilt ST HA TIC
It was a corking good baseball game,
in spite of the weather conditions.
The playing was fast and clean. Only
otic error was made by either team.
The Bisons niiscv+ed once, while the
Climbers went through with perfect I
: fielding, and some pretty work wad (
seen in this important department of j
the game.
Angels Art agon and Frank McDer- |
mott pulled off rome pretty fielding,
i*.tid l.onergan made one stop that was
a real beauty. Ariagon got on the
working end of a double play, making
i (Continued on eighth pageT)
Buy-Right Hints for
the Thrifty Housewife
"A feast of reason and a
flow of sonl" is a convivial co
incidence; very pleasant,
though not altogether prac
tical.
A feast of bargains and a fos
ter of ECONOMY in the store
advertising news of The Times
Dispatch this morning is a
paraphrase of greater possi
bilities for the housewife?not
only pleasant, but eminently
practical and exceptionally
profitable.
Ensconsed in your comfy
chair this morning, with The
Times-Dispatch piled in your
lap, you have spread before
you, in the merchants' adver
tising a WONDERLAND
WEALTH OP BARGAINS?
the sort, that immediately ap
Th ese Are Bargain Days
Read T -D. Ads Daily
peals to you through the j
strength of conviction that!
they are genuine opportunities ;
for saving money.
Your favorite stores are rep-'
resented?all of them, each
earnestly and honestly "bid
ding for your buying*' by the
compelling force of unqualified
value-giving represented in
their offerings.
The ads are interestingly,
entertainingly and convinc
ingly written; beautifully
typed; artistically illustrated,
and models of plan and ar
rangement. Really, they are
amongst, the best literature in
the paper. Read them care
fully; the orices will give you
visions of an increased balance
in your savings account.
\OTU?Tlie Tlme?-I>lft|?atch KonriiiXrc* a ronrkert ksvIiik on every purchase
nude In ltlclunond nlore* thai ndvcrlUe their lovrcMt pricci In thcie jngca.
Honor Guests Watching Ints Start Latest Campaign
?I'lioto l?y Koster.
Anions guests in box arc .Mayor George A in*lie, Governor Henry Curler Stuart, President Alvin M. Smith, ??f Kichmond club; Mrs. Smith,
Cehhardt Simon, president of Buffalo club; Colonel Julieii II. Hill and others.
Cham her Accepts R.( I". & I*. I'lan
Reluctantly and Gives I'p
Station Fight.
STORM V SCEXKS AT MEETING
Advocates of Depot Jit Main and
Fifteenth Streets Tlold Out for
Downtown Site, but Give In Under'
Determined Pressure.
J>eaten in a lust ilcsperiite effort to '?
compel the two railroad companies '
by the pressure of public opinion to
rr*ct a union depot at Fifteenth and
Main Streets, dissenting members of
the Chamber of Commerce last night
joined hands with those favoring the
selected site in adopting ? resolution |
regretfully agreeing to the plan of j
the R'-chmond, Fredericksburg and l'o- .
tomac Railroad and the Atlantic Coast i
Dine Railroad companies to erect a (
Joint depot on the grounds of the Her- t
mitage Oolf Club.
The resolution was presented by J.
O. Corley early in the proceedings,
ami it. was not passed until it had been
fought by a motion to have it laid :
on the table, and by repeated motions
to adjourn. A resolution offered by K.
C. J-aird. flrst vice-president of the '
ehamber, declaring it to be the sense
of the body that a union depot be j
erected at Fifteenth and Main Streets i
and a smaller station on the main line !
of the Richmond, Fredericksburg and .
I'otomnc Railroad for through north- !
bound and southbound trains, kept the j
strained attention of the body for more ?
than nn hour, and was finally dcfe;i*ed ;
by a. recorded vote of 106 to 111.
MFJKTlNti WINDS I P
IN W1I.D CONFI'SION j
During the last moments of the ;
meeting wild confusion prevailed. Mo- |
tion after motion was offered, and on ;
occasion the members did not know j
what they were voting on. There were
repeated cries for explanation from the j
chair, and between these there were j
motions to adjourn. A motion ottered j
by Henry R. Pollard, ,lr.. to adjourn j
was put and defeated. Others weie
ruled out of order because they won
offered while a reoorded vote was being
taken.
Mr. Corley's rejolution was adopted
by a recorded vote of 111 to j6.
The resolution follows:
"Resolved, first, that while the selec
tion of the Hermitage site does not, in
our opinion, conserve the best into! est
of our city or the convenience of the |
traveling public, the inherent rights of '
the railroad to construct the station
must be recognized, and though this
decision is unfortunate, nevertheless,
the chamber sees nothing to be gained
by further protest, which may result j
in a longer delay in securing depot fa
cilities so badly needed, and. therefore,
no further action will ho taken by this
body in advising regarding the station
question.
'?.Second, we suggest, however, that
the City Council be requested to re
quire the Richmond, Fredericksburg |
and Potomac Railroad Company to sign I
an agreement, as binding as possible on j
the present and future management, to !
run all passenger trains into the Her
mitage station, until said station is
abandoned or another more desirable
one made, thus, as far as possible, safe
guarding one of the objections to the I
Hermitage .site."
SANDS ADVISHS FACTIONS
TO PHACTICK CO-Ol'HItATION
For some time after President Colo-'
man Wortham announced the purpose
of the meeting no one raised his voice.
Finally S. \V. Travers offered a reso
lution which set the two strong tides,
of opinion running against each other.!
He moved that the plan of the two rail-i
road companies be accepted, and that I
they bo thanked for their offer to build!
on the Hermitage site. Ho said that
antagonism to the railroads was killing
the goose that laid the golden egg, and j
ho was for immediate opinion. Oliver .T.I
Sands seconded the motion, saying that!
the companies had given the question I
(Continued on~Second~Pa&V) {
Revelations Are Made j
of Far-Reaching Plot '
to Set Ireland Free
Irish-Americans Said to Be
Deeply Involved, in Finan
cing Revolution Led by
Sir Roger Casement.
LONDON, April 26.?British regulars
from Belfast ami Kngland are now in
Dublin, and have recaptured from the
revolutionary faction so vera) important
centers which the members of the Sinn
Fein party and their adherest had oc
cupied. These include St. Stephen's
Green and Liberty Hall.
Martial law has lieen proclaimed in
the city and County of Dublin, and the
official statement is made that drastic
steps are beincr taken to supress the
movement in Ireland and arrest all
those responsible for it.
HEAVY* HAND AAV A ITS
Til A n OIIS TO TlIEHt < Ol NTU Y
That the government intends to d.?:?l
with the revolutionists with a heavy
hand is Indicated by the publication of
a proclamation ir. the official gazette
to-niglu of mi article in Section 1 of
the Defense of the Realm Amendment
Act of 1915, which gives to a British
citizen charged with an offense under
the act the right to be tried by a civil
court.
The proclamation recites that "th<.
present state of affairs in Ireland is
such :hat it constitutes a special mili
tary emergency."
Premier Asquith, in the House of
Commons, and Lord Lansdowne, in the
House of Lords, made reassuring state
ments this afternoon respecting the
situation In Ireland. Outside of Dublin,
said the Premier, the country was tran
quil.
Lord Lansdowne declared thai there
was now a complete cordon of troops
around the center of Dublin. He added
the information that a "half-hearted
attack was made by the rebels on Dub
lin <'astle on Monday." The casualties
at Dublin, according to his statement
were nine killed and seven wounded.
Baron Wimborne, lord lieutenant of
Ireland, forwarded advices from Dub
lin to the effect that the situation was
satisfactory and that news from the
provinces wns reassuring.
A man of unknown identity has been
arrested. His identity has not been
disclosed, but he was conveyed to Dub
lin under a strong escort.
HE VIOLATION'S ARK .MADE
Ol' EXTENSIVE PLOT
The men connected with the filibus
tering expedition now in the hands of
the government include Sir Roger
Casement, two Irish confederates and
twenty-two Germans comprising the
crew. The chief importance or the
capture lies in the revelations made
of an extensive plot having ramifica
tions in Germany, Ireland and Amer
ica. Irish-Americans are said to have
been largely instrumental in financing
the revolutionary movement.
The capture by the navy secret ser-,
vice is considered a remarkably devest
piece of work. An automobile with!
Irish confederates nwaited Sir Roger
Casement ashore. The machine and!
its occupants were seized by secret ser-j
vice men. When Casement's party of
three landed they walked into the;
hands of the enemy.
The expedition consisted merely of a !
submarine and 1,100-ton sleamer, which'
approached the coast at different points.!
Casement and his companions landed
in a rowhoat from the submarine.
When arrested Casement is reported
to have maintained a good front, and
apparently was without hope of escap
ing death for treason. It is believed1
that his trial and condemnation will boi
speedy, although for the present It Is'
not possible to say whether lie will bej
executed.
Reprosnaptfttlves o? tlio American ?m-J
bas.sy have been In ronference with the
officials in charge of tho ease, presum
ably regarding the American ramifica
tions.
The steamer was sunk with all her!
caigo, consisting of rifles, machine guns
and ammunition. J
l'LA>S FOR HIJVOiaMIO.V
AltK MADE IIY VOX I'AIM.N [
N'EW YORK, April 2G.?Papers which ?
show that prominent Irishmen and \
Germans in the United States exhibited I
a keen interest in plans for a revolt !
in Ireland were found by Federal i
apenfs in their raio on the former of- j
flees here of Captain Franz von I'a-j
pen, withdrawn German military at- >
tache, according to u statement made ?
to-night by a high government oltiuial. i
Whether the government will under- |
take an investigation rests with the j
Department of Justice at Washington, I
which has the question under advise- j
rnent.
Some letters and other documents, it :
is asserted, bearing, the signatures of
leaders in the home-rule propaganda in j
this country wore found. Plans for
raising funds for the equipment of
Irish revolutionists were freely dis- j
cussed, and in soni:.? of the letters ap- ,
peals were made for financial aid.
HONOR DIXIE'S HEROES
i
Alnbniuu. Florida, rieornln nnil >1l??is-i
Mippl OliHorve Confederate
Decoration Day.
ATbANTA, GA? April 26.?Tribute to!
the Confederate dead and honor to thej
rapidly diminishing veterans of the
Confederate army was paid generally;
to-day In Alabama, Florida, Georgia j
and -Mississippi, in which April 2t> is
set aside as a legal holiday in honor
of the South's heroes. Other Southern'
States observe the day on different!
dates, North and South Carolina hav-'
ing set aside May 10 for this purpose;1
Louisiana, June 1. the birthday of Jef
ferson Davis, President of the Confed
eracy, and Tennessee the second Friday j
in May, which this year coincs on May)
12.
In virtually all of the cities where'
the day was observed to-day schools!
and business houses were closed and
parades to Confederate cemeteries were
followed by patriotic addresses and j
decoration of the graves. In many
cities graves of Federal soldiers who
fell during the fighting in the South
also were decorated, while in Mobile
the local post of the Grand Army of
the Republic joined the United Con
federate Veterans and other orgatiizu-j
lions in charge of the exercises. In
Savannah, Augusta, Jacksonville and
Atlanta and several other cities crosses;
of honor were conferred by the United j
Daughters of the Confederacy upon'
veterans who had not yet been given!
them.
BEQUESTS FOR HAMPTON
Indian ntid euro School Will Hecelvci
Sr?0,(M>0 From Kxlnlr of l<atr
> MI*m Andrew*.
XKW VORK, April 26.?A bequest ofj
550,000 to the Hampton Normal and
Agricultural Institute, Hampton, Va.,
was contained in the will of .Miss
Martha Andrews, who died here on
February 5. The bulk of her estate,
valued at $1,600,000, was bequeathed!
to religious, educational and charitable
Institutions, most of them situated in'
this city. The Tuskegee Normal and >
Industrial Institute in Alabama re-1
celved $50,000, and the Keren, K>\, col- i
lege $25,000.
The hoard of home missions of ihei
Presbyterian Church in America was:
bequeathed $50,000. After the payment j
of the specific legacies, the residuary j
estate will go lo five organizations, one
of which Is the American 131bio Society.^
Mercliunt A cssels Carrying (inns
Must Hi; Viewed From Two
Standpoints.
.NEUTRAL A\l) BELLIGERENT.
Status in Neutral Waters Fixed by
Evidence of Previous Conduct,
and on High Sens Upon Conclusive
Evidence of Aggressive Purpose.
WASHINGTON, April 2fi.?An onioi.il
declaration of the attitude of tho
United States toward armed merehixnt
ships, made public to-day by Socretnry
Lanslng, reiterates and makes plain tho
purpose of (lie American government to
recognize the right of peaceful vessels
to carry arms for defense, and, ?t the
saine time, while referring only to
warships generally, clearly s?ets forth
the conditions under which the United
States holds submarines may attack
merchant craft.
COIMKS A It 15 (ilVK V TO
1C1IHASSIKS A.\n LEGATION'S
Tho declaration was issued in the
form of a memorandum prepared by
Mr. Lansing at President Wilson's di
rections during tho secretary's brief
vacation last'month. Copies of it were
given to each of the embassies and le
gations here, and while no official ex
planation was forthcoming as to the
purpose of publishing the memoran
dum at this time, it is assumed that
at least the substance of it will reach
the Berlin Foreign Office before a roply
Is dispatched to the American demand
for abandonment of Germany's present
methods of submarine warfare. This
would serve to answer in advance cer
tain questions which cable dispatches
have Indicated tho German government
was inclined to ask.
In connection with the memorandum
It was stated that the Statu Department
now was awaiting a responso from
<?reat Britain to a request for copies of
orders to armed British merchant ves
sels.
I>uring the long-drawn-out negotia
tions following the sinking of the Lusi
tania. Secretary Lansing has staled in
general terms nearly all of the postu
lates which he lays down in to-dav'sj
declaration.
IMKKKItKMK IX I'OIIT
AXII ox II HOI sr.AS
A" effort is made to differentiate be
tween an armed ship in a neutral port
and the twine vessel on the high seas.
In the first case it is shown that the,
United Stales government is concerned
solely to protect itself against any!
charges tlmt might be made by one of!
tho belligerents that it bad allowed!
American ports to be used as a base
for hostile operations by Its enemy.
Mr. Lansing insists that the neutral
government Is to be the sole judge of
the status of armed merchant ships in
Its ports in the absence of any settled
rule of international law. a commis
sion or orders from a belligerent gov
ernment to conduct aggressive opera
tions under penalty of punishment for
failure to do so would Stamp tin- vessel
as a warship. In the absence of such
evidence the neutral government nmv ,
lay down its own rules of evidence to'
determine the character of the ship
and. moreover, these rules, unlike prin
ciples of International law. may be i
changed or modified during the prog
ress of the war.
? ommcntliig on this portion of the
memorandum, a high .official of the. i
State Department admitted that the re
fusal of the American port authorities
to clear a vessel might be taken as a
notice to the public that she was re
garded as a warship, not entitled to
immunity for her passengers.
MUST IIH .NO ATTACK
without waiixixi; I
The section relating to armed mer
chant vessels on the high seas dis
closes In positive terms the American
view that there must be no attacks I
without warning upon merchant ships. !
even if they are armed, unless the I
commander of the warship has ahso- !
(Continued onSecond I'ago") j
SCOTT IS GIVEN !
HIS INSTRUCTIONS
FOR CONFERENCE
He Will Discuss With Obre
gon Basis for Co-Operation
in Dispersing Bandits.
NO HINT OF WITHDRAWAL
OF TROOPS FROM MEXICO
Carranza's War Minister to Be
Told That American Forces
Will Remain.
THEY WILL SKRVK AS BUFFER
Two of. Ilodd's Cavalrymen Are
Jvillcd in Rattle With
Villa Hand.
Americans Advised
lo Leave Durango
TOItlll'iOV April UO.?American
CnnKllI Coen lit I>urniip:o City tin*
ndvlsed all AniprU'iinn to lenvc the
city, iiml Is liiin.n'If considering the
nilvlNnlilllty of m?lnpr to the liorilcr.
A serious sWuntlon lists heen cansptl
liy the violent nntl-Amerlctrti iiRttn
tlnn ivhlfli hn* lieen carried on liy
the Dtirntico nevrspnperii since the
Vinoricnii soldiers nnd .Mexican*
elunhril nt I'nrral.
WASHINGTON', April 26.?General
instructions for the assistance of
Major-General Scott at his forth
coming conference with Carranza's
War Minister, General Obregon, wore
drafted by Secretary Raker to-day af
ter brief conferences with President
Wilson and Secretary Lansing.
General Obreg:ou was due at Engle
j Pass to-night.
I The only official statement ns to the
I nature of the instructions was the fol
lowing. issued by Secretary Baker:
"The instructions are to discuss a
basis for the most cordial nnd complete
co-operation between the American
and Mexican forces in the attainment
of their common object."
WILL HAVE STRONG INFLUENCE)
ON DIPLOMATIC NEGOTIATIONS
Whilo Ihe immcdiato object of the
conference is. as stated, a question of
military dispositions to end bandit
operations along the border, there is no
doubt that, its result will have a strong
influence upon the diplomatic negotia
tions between the two governments.
It is considered certain that General
Gbregou will carry back to Mexico
City a definite ^impression that the
American troops will remain in the
positions to which General Funston
now Is shifting them as a buffer be
tween the disturbed urea of Northorn
Mexico and the border, until tho suc
cess of the Carranza forces in pur
suing the bandits removes the danger
of further raid? on American towns.
The conference will give General
Carranza advance notice of the atti
tude the United States will take ?n
replying to his note of April 12, sug
i gesting the withdrawal of the forces.
Officials hope, however, that its moro
immediate result will be to clear a way
the misunderstandings and suspicion
with which the movements of Ameri
can troops have been regarded by local
Mexican commanders and officials; to
free supply shipments for the troops
from Interference and perhaps to make
possible real Joint operations for tho
capture of Villa.
MOST EI-'I-'KCTIVK WAV
TO SKCl'm: WITHDRAWAL
While it is not known that the
orders mention Villa. General Scott
may point out to General Obregon thitt
the most effective way to secure early
withdrawal of the American forces
from Mexico would be to lend all pos
sible aid in the chase for the bandit,
j The presence of the American forces
on their new lines will narrow the
i chase materially if the Carranza gov
ernment desires to undertake It un
aided, or make possible effective co
operation if Joint operations are pre
ferred. A renewal of the hunt for the
bandit by American troopers now is
| in progress, both official reports from
j General Funston and border advices
i disclosed. The cavalrymen, despite the
worn condition of their mounts, are
beating tiie mountains where Villa ad
herents have been assembling during
the lull In the chase after the Parral
incident. No information as to the
whereabouts of Villa himself has boen
received.
TWO CAVALRYMEN KILLED
IN IIATTLK WITH IIANDITS
The War Department gave out this
dispatch from General Funston:
Following* just, received from Gon
oral Pershing:
" 'Namiquipa. April 25.
"'A report dated April 24th received
to-day Colonel l")odd states that he
overtook a band of Villistas near
Tomachico on 22d at 4:30 P. M., kill
ing six nnd wounding nineteen others,
many probably fatally. Twenty.five
horses were captured. Our loss: two
killed and three wounded. Fight
| lasted until after dark. Impossible to
j tell definitely loss of Villistas. Dodda
column when previously heard from was
[at Penachlco on the 17th. Country re
, I?*>rted very rough. March made over
jditllcult mountain trails. Villistas re
| ported under leadership of Corvantes,
| Pvios Baca and Dominguez number 160
j to 2f>0. Baca reported killed ye.stftr.
J day at Santa Tornas. no not sclve en
tire credit to report of his death. Our
killed at Totnaohlc were Ralph A. Raw,
, saddler. Troop L, Seventh Cavalry; Pri
j vnto Oliver Monshee, Troop H, Seventh
Cavalry. Wounded: Thomas Henry,
I Seventh Cavalry; Tillman Malta#, Tioor
