Sports of all sorts covered AU the News of the World
by experts -and the corn- r"by Two Telegraphic aid
plete box scores of the .ball\ labeeris-A heDw
games. ..- of Washngton.
O. 3479. WEATHER-LIGHT RAIN PROBABLE. WASHINGTON D C. THURSDAY. APRIL 27 1916 CENT.
FREEDOM GIVEN
MRS. ROGERS ON
INSANITY PLEA
Jury Returns Verdict of Not
Guilty After Being Out
Two Hours.
SECOND CHARGE DROPPED
Woman Who Poisoned Babes
Declared to Have Been
Irresponsible Mentally.
HOTLY SCORED BY PROSECUTOR
Defendant and Man Now Her Husband
Declared to Have Been "Living
Like Beasts."
r By the lnternatloaI News Service.)
New York. April :'F-Ida Sniffen Rogers
is tree. The jury refused to believe that
she. a notoriously loving mother. could
have been in her right mind when she
poleoned her two children.
Not guilty, on the ground of insanity
was the verdict announced in the Bronx
Supremo Court today after two hours of
deliberation.
Mrs. ior uttered a choking "gnd.
Her lips parted. She swayed and would
have fallen if her husband had rot
caught her in his arms. A.d they sobbed
together for some moments. careless of
inquisitive looks, lost in the immenee re
li.f of that moment.
The ordeal of the preceding hours had
been a fierce one District Attorney Mar
tin had been unsparing in the eloquence
of denunciation. He had characterized
the woman at the bar as a cold-blooded
murderess and described her crime as
*ne of the worst he had ever encountered.
First Mrs. Rogeres Present.
The court rnt was crowded with
women. man of them liar dly more than
girls. Iti a far ornr sat Mrs. Anna
Roquetmore Rogers. the first wife of
lorl.s Flton Rogers, whose complicated
matmonial adventures had landed him
en.i une w'otan in a net of tragedy not
to he forgott.ttn in a lifetime.
I.r.; Stuyvesant *'hanler. chief of
munsel for the defense, had he ti up his
clent as a model of motherhood, inl
"apahe of harming her little ones if she
hart been in a normal state of mind. In
a passionate outburst he had cried:
"Motherhood is at the bar. Humanity
is on trial here."
"Yea, humanity is on trial here." Dis-1
trict Attorney Martin retorted when his
turn came. "But your sympathies should
not be for this woman, but for the two
helpless children who were murdered.
They were ont physically able to put
aside the drafts of poison that were
handed to them. They were slaughtered
by this woman and unable to protect
themselves. She was living with this
man as his mistr's. Ile was married
and living on Riversile Drive. lie had
been divorced. Mrs. Rogers had been
divorced from her first husband.
4eathing Arraignment.
'Her little son John, whom the indict
ment charges her with murdering. was
conceived when she was the wife of Wal
ters, although she claimed Rogers was
the father. Gentlemen, they were living
like a lot of wild beasts. Look at the des
terate plight she was in. If Rogers should
leave her with the two illegitimate chil
dren on her hands"
Justice Tompkins in his charge to the
jury was particular in warning them to
have no prejudice in their minds against
Mrs. Rogers because of her irregular re
lations with Rogers.
The distrwt attorny moved to quash
the eceonil indictment against Mrs.
Rog. re.lustice Tompkins agreed.
CASEMERT TO DIE,
Declared In London Irish Leader
lay Be Beheaded.
I nndn. .\t'ri: e-Sir finger Casci.mnt
will be executed within a few days, either
ty hanging or beheading, it Is stated in
high naval 'ircles.
The first story of the capture of the
Ii Ish leader is obtained tonight frotn
the same source. It appears that Sir
Roer and two companions were landed
on the .-authwest coast of Ireland from
a submarine. coming ashore in a small
heat.
ills iontpanions went ahead to get an
automobile which was to mteet thetm by a
prearranged Ilan. butt the authorities,
having got wond of the tlan, were ready,
2nd alt three were arrested immediately.
Millionaire's Wife Kills Self.
New York. Aprtl 26.-Eiuding her nurse.
Mrs. Theresa Kaufman, wife of Henry
Kaufman, a mIllionaire merchant of
Pittsburgh. committed suicide today by
plunging from a Window of her apart
ments on the eleventh floor of the Rits
'arlton. one of the biggest and most fash
onable hotels in New York.
Mob Searches For Mexican.
I'eoria. Ill.. April 2S-Central Illinols
,. as zonducting a Mexican bandit hunt
tli its own today. Two hundred angry
-seidents of Peoria were Searching the
*urrouanding country for Jose Gonzales,
aho late last night stood off a crowd
>f :.00 persons in the mouth part of the
'ity and ktlled Chtarien Younke and prob
itbly fatally woufiug Jones Usal'M.
Zeppelins Again Raid
East Coast of England
(By laternational N.ws Senice.1
London, April 27-(Thurs
day).-The war office an
nounces that Zeppelins visit
ed Kent, on the east coast, at
10:30 o'clock on Wednesday
night. No reports of their
penetration inland have been
received up to 2 o'clock this
morning.
Because of the mist pre
vailing over Kent, it is thought
probable that the Zeppelins re
treated before midnight.
It is reported that one bomb
dropped fell into the sea.
SUB TENSION
EASING OFF
View Held in Berlin Is that
the Situation Is "Serious,
but Hopeful."
WILSON AND LANSING
NOT VERY OPTIMISTIC
1By the lan News seri-lee.i
Berlin. April 25 (via London, April 26)
There ls a general feeling that the Amer
ican situation is gradually improving.
Where. before it might have been called
"critical, but not hopeless," it may to
day be called "serious, but hopeful"
The newspapers in general are showng
a greater willingness to compromise. of
ficial view; are still unobtainable. It is
doubtful whether the German note can
be ready before the end of the week.
The Berlin hourse today did not re
flect the optimistic spirit shown on Mon
day on the New York Stock Exchange.
There was weakness in most of the im
portant stocks, though it was noticeable
that among the buyers were the bigger
banking Interests closest to the govern
ment.
Though the newspapers publish eolumns
of comment and telegrams, it is hard to
say what Germany-s popIubr opinion
really is.
Much ot the comment. unfortunately.
is still dire--ted personally against Presc
lent Vilson, charging him with being
friendly to lngland and with trying to
hurt Germany.
The veil of secrecy shrouding the sub
marine crisis has at last sufficiently lift
ed to permit a general idea of the pres
rnt status of the situation.
Germany, it is authoritatively learned,
feels it cannot submit without reser
vation to President Wilson's demands and
is therefore delaying Its answer to the
American note while seeking a tiddl
ground of compromise. Count von Hern
storf, the German Ambassador. ielieves
a satisfactory compromise con he reach
ed. Secretary of State Lansing, appar
ently, does not share the Anibassador's
optimism.
There is so far no indication that 'resi
dent WIlson or Secretary TAnsing are re
garding the crisis as less serious than
it was the day the American note was
dispatched to Berlin.
PROSECUTE THEMSELVES.
Confesstons of Alleged Plotters (hief
Evidence Against Them.
New York. April 36.-The rather un
usual and difficult task of presenting by
means of evidence largely from the
mouths of some of the defendants
themselves, a convincing picture of the
manner In which, according to the in
dictment, Lieut. Robert Fay, Walter F.
Scholz and Paul Dasche, all German re
servists. worked on their plan to blow
up allies' munition-carrying ships, was
begun today by John C. Knox, asistant
(-nited States district attorney, before
Judge Howe, in the Federal Criminal
Pourt.
There were practically only two men
outside of the accused themselves who
had any idea of the conspiracy until a
short time before the arrest of Fay and
live of s alleged accomplices. These
men are Paul Siebs, a German, and '.
I. Wettig. both of whom participated in
selling explosives to Fay and Scholz.
The details of the conspiracy, the aima
of Fay and his associates, the part which
ach man played-came really from Fay
and Scholz after their arrest.
Predicts Strike of 176,000.
New York, April '6.-"The failure o[
the committees representing the an
thracite i'oal mniners andI the operators
to agree on vital points means but one
thing--a strike of the 176,O0 men in the
tnthracite fields." T-'he foregoing; state
rnent was made today by K- C., Adams,
secretary 1o John P. White. president of
the United Mine Workers of America
snd official spokesman for the miners,
State Highway Commissioner Dies.
Pittsburgh, April 26.-Death camne
suddenly to Robert J. Culsningham. tttate
highway commIssioner today whIle he
was sittIng in a chair at his home in
tewickley. The cause of his death Is said
to have been heart trouble, following a
servous breakdown with .which he was
ineized two weeks ago.
Pope Diuepproves Dublin Riots.
L'ondqn. April 26-Pope BenedIct has
txpressed his disapproval of the polItical
liaturbances In eouthern Ireland and has
:abled to the archbIshop of DublIn for
particulars, says a Rome wlrlesa dia.
Satch. In hIs message, the pont ad
rised Irish CathoDic. to renmala jp~~
Violent Fighting Still On
In Dublin, Declare Cipher I
Messages to Sinn Feinersi
Members of Organization in United States Who Gave Out
First Authentic News, Add that Ford Wimbourne, A
General Friend and Hundreds of Troops
Are Prisoners.
(B) the Sm Sens Service.) f the war. Well dlsgul$ed. and pus
New York. April ;.-A number of sen- seased of absolute knowldge of the Eng
sational cipher messages were received lish haguage, as well as of the Irish
here today by circles sympathizing with brogue, they were for weeks engaged F
the Sinn Feiners, the organization which In the most dangerous secret propaganda
is leading the rebellion in Dublin, and aod spy work. They succeeded in acer
which has an elaborate system in this taming highly Important military facts.
country by which "inside news" on the The two ofcers. the cipher message
developments in Ireland is learned at assets, were cordially received and aid
first hand long before it is learned even ed by the Sian Felnere. I
In London. In view of the fact that Another cipher message repeated the
the developments of the last forty-eight statements made yesterday in Sinn Fei
hours have borne out previous cipher l
messages of this kind in every detail, it lieutenant of Ireland-the highest rep
a sae to assume that they are au- resentative of the crown in Ireland, his
thentie. Summarized, the secret code e
cablegrams received here today make the p'iend, commander-in-chief of the Brit
following assertions: ish troops in lrelnr, and his own staff
Violent fighting continues in Dublin. as well as several hundred British aol
The greater part of the city is firmly held diers are prisoners In the hands of
by the rebels. the rebels. They are held, it is stated, V
Capt. Eduard llollmann and 1,ieut.
l'at.l~uai ili~~an Iiet.as hostages for Sir Roger C'asement. I
I'ommandier (name withhel. both of the
ImpeialGeran at", hve ustretrn- The same message declares that upris- a
Imperial tGerman navy, have just return
ed safely in Berlin after an extended ''gs have broken oat in other Pa of
trip through Ireland. The two officers Ireland and is spreading through all the p
af on f heh wa.ngexplits fWl pdog e
It
U-Boats Seek to Prevent
Troops Landing in Ireland
By the %un Nens ersea inti s a o n he is weroast a of hich
A 1 -rdin, A1pril . --The entire I roi were succestel. n
sea art the Atlantic watns to the west Sir Roger k. said to have succeeded In
and south (If Irlai are swartming with landing several times large amounts of a
Germatn submarines, wshose sole task is to arms and amumunition and explosiv-es, e
sitnk ever> trout tranisport destinedl for which were hturriedly taken into the in-c
Ireland ill quet the rey Tion. l two or by Separst agents. p m
It became knon here to'dae tbyt the New York. Atri .-At no time sinc
Svisit w hi, Sir Rer Calsemnt p'il to the outbreak of the war has the lid of
the Irish coast nnI tihe night o~f April tile Britishl censorship been pressed As
l, a'nd which resititmi in his arrest by tight upon alt cayie messages, particu.
the British lull till' enkiag of Ihe ter- arly to the rnited States, as since, two
loan auiliiury. . ill awlieh he had comne, night ago, the telegraph ticker flashed a
was not thl' irst til' famou Irish tnoble- the word "revolt in Dubin.'
oan paid to his native sthore since he The exact status of ai$n the Iriah IS
has been in Germny Despite the fart capital can at the r nt n n
Prtendcomman er- nte moeth Brit
that there was a prie. of 3,M9~ poluds be Inferred, The story of the Si n Fein i
on,10 hi, hed. ii Roger, it i a re- rebellion is beiag told not by wbat n
port'-d. hbed previously made several dar- don cables say, but by their omissions.
Depend Upon Machine nGuns
To Protect U. S. Soldiers
yKET A. HUNATE. clSas weght and at te same time in- t
Interationai News Service. creasing the defensive power of the
'nliIua, N . Mex., AprilT sa-Machine motor truck trains that now are he sole
guns will solve any international trou- method of communication between the
hie to wich the t'nited States is a party, base here and Gen. Pershing's scattered
Just as toachine guns have solved the colurm units in Mexico.
war probleT in Europe by deadlocking Throughout the armories of the Unit
l'. w ny05 men i trenches within a few ed States are hundreds of machine guns. s
yards of each othe e. They ar of patterns now regarded asi
This is the opinion of Maj. John Henry obsolete by the government, but which
Parker. of the Twenty-fourth Infantryh are nevertheles im good w on of a
sink~~~~~~~~~~~ evrgroorasotdsindfrwoh eehri d ta kinorer.
author of two books on machine gun Maj. Parker proposes to call in these
construction and operation, and a recog- guns, mount them, one to a truck, and
nized expert on the principihs of rapid put a machine gun operator on as a
fire machinery. guard In place of the two or three
In furtherance of his ides, Mach Par- now assigned to each truck armed with
ker has worked out a plan for reducing the regulation Springfield rifle, F
ONE HOT TODDY CURES UNEASINESS IN LONDON
HEm GREEN'S ILLNESS OVER DUBLIN SITUATION tb
Son Declares that if Old-fashioned 'Censored Statement that 42 Have Been a
Remedy Had Been Larger. Doc- Killed Fails to Allay Fears of n
tar Would Have Lost Fee. More Casualties. ac
By iternational News Ser'iel) (fly the Inte Sat ateal Nas Seice.two t
New York, April 26.-The hot toddy, London, April 27 (T ursday).The cen- a
standart remedy of a passing generation, aored statement In this morning's Daly
was the principal "natedlone" In the cure News that the total casualties "up to
of Mrs. itetty Green, otogenerian date" in the Dublin revolt were forty- A
financier, who was reported to have euf- two killed and forty-six wounded, has
fered a aralytic stroke at the home of caused much uneasiness here.
her son. Co. E. Io. R. Green. Lord Lnadowne ha d preiously stated
MD . Green wa back at her desk to- in the House of Lords that the dead num
day attending~ to bustness as usual. It bered' nineAeeen and the wounded twenty. c
appears, according to a statement given seven, n . the oi l
goenmn' EENTc A.HLNTl
out by uer son, that she had suffered through the uprising has been the re
a chill after an automobile ride on Sun- verse of frank,
da and developed a cold. Reports that machine guns had d
".0 gave her a hot toddy," said Col. used on the Smnn einere a
This~~~prise isteoiiinfMj Jh er
Green, "and catted a doctor. If we had spite of the denials, as did also the In
given her a bigger toddy, it turned out, formation that the revolutionists e
ni in e xpe er t ohe th tdye tpi n e o am. p id poe
Inublinherancredfthat thealosae. amon
SEiso's aitTooGoo toUse tecs reuionts nd e atheay bam t tiey
West rang, N.J., Aril 6,-Temasing did codeensive damwe tof the- o
I A Edsonis ackhom toay ouringamoto trops tres tatd ow rin thoe it
thesuces o hs atet nvntin-a migtinod ocmu iatonge, we h
a vcatonin loida wereths asgi heranden. W rsin' ' Sta ttere
baitTwasuphtutotteeateotiandofound toibe
good o be f anyusaes Aril hundre Aet of mahn 0us
gram toaresfpden Wanw"regad s
Germn Aimen efeed. areig rnevrteess ainagoodtorkang acde.
Salnik, Arit26,Frnchaerplaes ntat. Paderete pros tes youi thave a
todayfougt anaerilcobat ith unmad wiuth thnem seniet an trukand
Germn suadon ear oisti indputv agmaine gu o erator commte by F
whih aTeuon achne f te Abatossgurain ams agan the righreeguards
type was broughnowatsgne to eartToohrtah.te nro marner anmd pwbth
kerma haeoplaes werela fordt iescnseeanSp" gldrfe
Son Declaresethat ifeOtd-fashion'
O y net lernti n NWrerc.) Asedm p'i2 Adsac rmf
New Alork. Aprl. Aprilh hOne toddy, n t heVuia sec tae
wsandlrd anmdy mfan passenger sgenerethaionsa fenpnasuarno
slightcierries wha ortd-toun have . twny wasisuef-e pssn
core an carltie steat wthea hoeh thogof Neh3mU h et
Mrs.d Greh en a. back asher dsk-to
STRIKES CLOSE
5 BIG PLANTS
IN PITTSBURGH
11 Westinghouse Concerns in
Turtle Creek Valley Shut
Down Indefinitely.
0,000 EMPLOYES OUT
requent Clashes Occur Be
teen Strikers and Guards
of Company.
EDUSTRIES MAY BE CRIPPLED
nless Miners Reach Agreement with
Employers, Shortage of Fuel Will
Halt All Manufacturing Plants.
try the Ra. News Nerxice.l
Pittsburgh. April .-With approxi
ately xot0i emplor es on a strike. every
estinghouse plant located in the Turtle
reek Valley %r, closed down for an
definite period this afternoon. The plants
Reeted are the Westinghouse F.lec- S
'Ic and Manufacturing Company, at East
ittsburgh; the Westinghouse Machine
ompany. East Pittsburgh: the West
ighouse Airbrake Company, at W nlmer
ta
ng; the Union twitch and Signal 'om- m
any, at Swissvale. and the Pittsburgh
eter Com~any. in East Pittsburgh.
Strikes inaugurated at the Wilmerding
id Swissvale plants today had a direct
te
raring on the issuing of the order to t
ose down all plants. Of the 6.560 per
ns employed ini the alrbrake plant.
plnt
early 4,000 refused to enter the bigd
'orks this morning. At the IUnion Switch I
nd Signal Works over half of the x,000 t
rnployes also refused to report. Practi
ally all of the employes in the other ,T
iree Westinghouse plants in East Pitts
urgh have been out for several days. t'
Frequent (lashes Repoeted.
Clashes between the strikers and the
uards were frequent in the strike zone
xlay. In many instances guards were
tacked, but no serious injuries resulted.
The officials of the Union Switch and
ignal Company and the Westinghouse I
irbrake Company. immediately folow- w
ug the strike at their plants. Issued the
>ilowing notice: Ill
"The disturbed conditions now existing
I this vicinity have created a situation
tat renders it apparently Impossible for
ie company to secure adequate protec- fr
on for you in the peaceful pursuit of C
our employment. rn
"As we do not wish to subject our em- Ib
(oyes, who have so long and faithfully vi
!rved us, to possible trouble and bodily N
ijury that may result if the plants are ,
)ntinued in operation, the management er
as decided to close the works for the ki
resent until further notice." s;
120.000 Now eo steike. w
With today's additions the list of per
rins now on strike throughout the Pitts
urgh district' approximates 1_0.000. Of l
its number -4,000 are employes of the
Ilied Westinghouse Interests and the t
ittsburgh Coal Company. The re
tainder are scattered among industrial t}
ants in Alleghany County. fr
There was a slight ray of hope today b<
tat the miners' committee would reach m
a agreement with the officials of the D
ittsburgh Coal Company within a few lc
sys. Failure to do so means a nearly
mplete shut-down of the industries In fe
its district within the next five weeks om
!cause of a shbrtage of fuel. m
Joseph Anderson, of Detroit, represent- fr
tive of the International Machinists' w
nion, who arrived in the strike sone this
orning. announced that everything is in
tadiness for the machinIsts throughout
te United States to make a demand on C
lay 1 for an eight-hours day.
PRTMARIES DON'T FAZE T. R. .
siolonel Declines to Comment on
Latest Returns.
Oyster Bay. N. Y., April 25.-Col. Roose
^It today smilingly declined to comment pt
n the results of the primaries in Massa- b:
rusetts, New Jersey or Ohio. Having e,
.fused to take any part In the fight in w
assachusetts he is understood not to be in
isturbed by the defeat there of the
vowed Roosevelt adherents. C
It is pointed out by his friends, how
rer, that only a small proportion of the H
epublican vote in the State was polled. pl
pl
Many Accidents in New York.
New York, April 2G.-The European or
enches and the streets of New York
re pretty much int the same class as bad
surance risks, according to statistics
ade public today by the police depart- t.
ant. These show that during 1915 there at
ere 2.iM street accidents In New York, bl
which 649 were fatal. b.
Actor Tearle Must Pay Amnuany, t
New York. April 23.-Conway Tearle,
::or. was today directed by Supreme
ourt Justice Delehantty to pay his wife.
oberta Menges Corwin Hill Tearle, Q@ s
eekiy alimony pending the trial of her o
vorce suit.
War Munitions Uurned.
Middletown. N. Y., April 2.--A transfer
eight station half a mi'le long filed
ith freight, most of it destined to the
lies, and eighty loaded freight cars jB
ere destroyed by fire in the Central to
ew Englantd yards at Maybrook to-jte
LI. Lam WS5 USAS e1
Charges Wilsea Baed
German Aid to Irish
) It a is serl 'eka Ieie
New York, April 26.-Flat
charges that President Wilson
and the government of the
United States thwarted Ger
man aid to the Irish revolu
tion is made by John Ikoy,
president and editor of the
(aelic-American, in the edi
tion of his paper prepared for
the press today.
Mr. Decoy, long a leader
in Irish-American affairs, and
an ardent advocatc of the Irish
solunteers' cause refused to be
interviewed on his charges.
At his office, 16; William
street, he let it be understood
his editorials and news ar
ticles stood for themselves.
)ODD REPORTS
VILLA BATTLE
flicial Account Says Nearly
200 Bandits Were Defeated
by Seventh Cavalry.
X MEXICANS ARE KILLED;
AMERICANS LOSE TWO MEN
tfter a hard dash through rough moun
In trai:. Col. George A. Dodd. com
unding four troops of the Seventh
valry, overtook and defeated a force
between 15 and 3!) Villita bandits.
ling six and serioialy wounding nine
'n others. according to an offi-ial re
rt from h(rg. Gen. John J. Pershing.
reived at the War rDpartment yester
y afternoon. The American losses were
- killed and three wounded. The fight
ok piace at Tomachic last Saturday.
the ofikial report from Pershing on the
Imachic fight follows:
"Namaquipa, Mexico. April 5-A re
rt datd April _3. reeived today from
>I. lDodd. whose column of four troops.
venth Cavalry. has been operating
uthwest of Minaca. states that he
'ertook a hand of Villistas near To
achic on the 2d. 4:3C p. m . kiling six
id wounding nineteen others, many
obaby itaay.. "qpenty-five horses
mre captured. Our lops two killed, three
wunded. Fight lasted untl after dark.
ipossible to tell definitely loss of Vi
tas.
Ceme try *.Rep erge
"Dodd's column, when previously hoard
om, was at Tenaehic, seventeenth.
>untry reported very rough. March
ade over difficult mountain trails. Vil
tas reported under lederahip of Cer
ntes. Rica. Ba'a and Dominguex.
umber 1.A to ?r. Baca reported killed
sterday at Santa Tomas,. Do not give
tire credit to report of his death. Our
lied at Toma~hic were Ralph A. Raw.
ddler. Troop L. Seventh Cavair' : Pri
te Oliser Bionhee. Troop I. Sever.l
alry. Wo:nded. henry Thomas and
ltman T Ma.thins. Seventh Cat a'
dd returnrl to M:naca. Perx- et
Another resort from Gen. FI; oten
ated:
'Late renor t f 'ii 'ol. Rrwin stiales
at on the yith Instant scouting ;e'ce
Omt h .. ommand encountered snall
dy of Yillistas near ('ocomorachi end
ertally woun'dcd four. Wound, 1 in
dd's command doinz well and rot ex
eted to die. Funston "
en. Scott is expre ted to begin hs con
rences with Gen. Obregon. Mexican
mister of war. today or (moorrow
arning. Gen. Si Ott received yesterday
am Secretary Baker the instructions
ich wilt guide him in these parieys.
70.000 TO IDSE JOBS.
loak, Silt and Skirt inter. Plan
for Lock-eat.
New York. April '.-When 7^1 loak.
it and skirt makers arrive at th Ir
aces of employment Saturday mornin.
ec will find the doors barred a:ainr:
cm.
The ltok-out, it was autho itatnIely
ated tonight, has he.mr de, d.l upon
the Cloak. Suit and Skirt Manufactu,
s' Protective Ancociation. The set mon
ill be followed immediately i. the cal'
g of a general strike of the worke-s
ashier of Philadelphia Mint Dies.
Philadelphia. April 2-.-Auunst-us Wught
>mber,:er, a member of th.- Philadel
lie Itar, and cashier of thi Philadel
la mint since 1912. died ini the Get man
isapitat late last night, after an ilineos
seve-rat weeks.
New Conscription Bill Ready.
London. April 2(-t',imier Asqauith an
unced In the house of commona this
ternoon that a new military service
Il embodyina; the poInt. agreed upon
the gcovernmenlt in scttlemenit of the
nacription tangle, will be- introduced
morrow.
'30,000 Acres Flooded.
Lacrosse. WIs.. April 5.-Thirty thou
nd acres of valuable farm land east
Winona across the iver from La
osse were inundated today by water
om the flooded MIssissippi.
She Spends $60,000 a Year.
'hcago. April 5.-Mrs. Howard
aulding, Jr.; who wtas SIse Catherine
trer, spends 6~Slit0 a year. according
a letter from James R. Forgan,. tr-us
of her father's estate, to heboard
-saer todas.
CARRANZA OFF
TO VERA CRUZ
AFTER CLASH
Doubt Raised as to Obregon's
Authority to Deal with
Gen Scott.
SITUATION COMPLICATED
Mexico City Dispatch Declares
Intervention by U. S.
Is xpete,
MAY HALT PARLEY AT BORDER
Disintegration of First Chief's Govern
ment May Be Forecasted by Lates
Move in Southern Republic.
i By the Internationea mews Syeeis..)
1i Paso. Tex., April N.-PIrt Chief
Carranza has left Mexico City for Vera
Cruz. Espinosa Mirelos, governor of
'onhuila. and former confidential secre
tary to Carranza. Is In charge of the
palace and what is left of the de facts
government Minister of War OThregon is
expected at Chihuahua City tonight en
route to the border to confer with Gema.
Scott and Funston.
This information has raised serious
doubt that Obregon bears authority to
confer with representatives of the United
States as the accredited spokesman for
the Mexican government
The news that Gen. Carransa has left
Mexico Citv tends to confirm the report
sent out hy this service on Saturdav
night that there had been a breach be
tween the First Chief and Obegon.
Pleat Statement Ume..tirned.
The first report was gualtfied by the
statement that it came from reliable
sources but could not be confirmed at
that time. Immediate steps were takes,
however, to get into direct communica
tion with the capital.
This was accomplished on Monday
through a reliable and influential Ameri
can business concern which sneattains a
large offee in WorL -o . At the re
quest of the Tntefnationa? Wewa erviee
the head of this concern sent a message
in code to his repreentative at the car
ital asking:
"Has any split occurred betweent
r...a and Oregon I
The answere received. ala a eas "
un=nlactoy. It said:
"They are quibbling." /
On Tuesday morning another ai0 -
was forwarded in code asking for dga
of a more specilic charace- Asn aner
asS received to this communication *MAY
toda'
'"isters-etlem Expeeted."
Intervention esxpected Carrania ha.
!ft fir Vela iruiz er some point in that
dire-ti n. hib:,son has gone nt-t
A third message received t ;r evening
said:
- i-p inosa Mi-rl.s still here and in
c hara '
(i b r ihspatches let that 'he goer-no
of the :tate .f V. -a z has "e-noveri
hiir h'ad iarters fenm the c-tta, h. the
sia to iiaiztha.,w ih I ..bou: !a; wa s
ietwr c Mi x. o <'I' and the gulf coars
it is conldered ;0-) that C rranza has
gone there
The Mcxw ' v di-pat.hre a:e re
iudcld hr's ,e cnfirnng the Ih-catenet
-Istnecgration if ihe Carr, nza s.irn
.nent.
The pi han beer cOr-eind n .
tar . ir.-., that unles Gen I oat is su
.riz. t, dea! wth tihregor as the
t mal h1. ad e, thie .orswnittiona. et cause
n, conferor e 'iV I -ailed off in
i . . ! hr d's" fpmrnts. . is insideret
ike Iy that t 0-ri on carries crcdmntia
from <'arranza
SHELTS RAIN ON VERDUN.
Heas y German Flee Relievel to
ereease lnfantry 4tteek.
Uir s. April 2- For tIwents-four hou-s
the Gie mans hig guns have bombarded
A'ocurt Wood and the Frencb trenches
north of Hilt 304. to the northwsCt .f
Verdon The Fren h commanders. it is
reported here. are thoroughl4 convined
that thi' un- easing bombardment pres
ages another infantry asasult in force
The section under fire is a semi-circle
of five miles in extent, running from
Avocourt. around Hi No. 30S, through
E~snes and down to Moetsevll.
MILITARY STORU NUEIE.
Easteeiena Preemde Fiee 53 Ottew.
Depet.
Ottawa. Ontario. AprIl M.-ltre haa
hbroken out in the military stores depoct
here. Several explosions have ogeurred.
london, Anrti K.-It was tarmed from
a high source this afterae that the
British government has decided to ailew
Americans to purchase toterned AUstrian
merchant ships that are now under the
jurisdiction of the prime eet preeling
the ships are chartered to the British
government by their purchaes.
Taggart Iamel for Uenate
Indianapolia. Ind.. April K.-Ugited
States Senator Thomas Taggart was to
day nominated for Uteed Btatee a
tor for the short term by the &.
_watic Blata cousvmtm. - 9.
