WEATHER 1 *fin^ "From Press to Home
Overcast and continued cool tonight j? m . ^ 9 ^ l]w|J .
tomorrow: moderate and M JH IM J^L*/ B I|
i MNJ Within the Hoar"
Temperature for twenty-four hours ^A H ?? ?
p.m.: Highest. p.m. i V V H S CSI
yesterday; 46. at 6 a.m. today. ^ B ^L. a B. I B. + fl B fl B B fl ^V fl ^L. ^1 B A -1
I -?,....,.. ??. -.,. Mr J'V VArm-V*^ /V W*' ._.? ?? _
CI.OS1NG >KW YORK STOCKS PAGE 30. W N- S !?! . Dollr A?tn?i 8S.TSS1 Iu4>7. IMN
No. 20.:i01. WASHINGTON, D. C., THURSDAY, APRIL 27, 1916.-TWENTY-FOUR PAGES. ONE CENT.
- - ?????? .? 1 1 - '
MARTIAL LAW RULES
OVER ALL IRELAND;
BATTLES IN DUBLIN
Rebels Continue to Hold All Important
Public Buildings In
the Capital.
MOVEMENT AGAINST GREAT BRITAIN
CDDFAnc Tft All DADTQ H17 KI ANH
JI l\LAi/iJ IU /lliL inmu V/i
Maj. Gen. Sir John Maxwell to Command Strongly
Reinforced English Troops, According to
Premier Asquith.
LONDON. April 27, 3:20 p.m.?Martial law has been declared
throughout all Ireland.
Premier Asquith announced in the house of commons today that
the rebels continue to hold important public buildings in Dublin
and that street encounters were still in progress.
The premier announced that Maj. Gen. Sir John Maxwell, who
formerly commanded the British forces in Egypt, was leaving this
afternoon for Ireland. The general has been given plenary powers
under martial law over the whole country.
Premier Asquith said the Irish situation still presented serious
features today and that there were indications of a spread of the
/-? nartc r?f Tr^lanH e?;neria11v in the west.
BRITISH TROOPS STRONGLY REINFORCED.
The troops in Ireland have been and are being strongly reinforced,
Mr. Asquith added, and the government was satisfied the
force dispatched was adequate to deal with the situation.
The Irish authorities will place themselves at the disposal of
Maj. Gen. Maxwell to carry out his instructions.
The premier said there would be a searching investigation into
the cause of and responsibility for the outbreak. He added that it
was obviously necessary to exercise military censorship while martial
law prevailed in Ireland. This censorship, however, would be
directed merely with regard to the essential military requirements
of the situation. All possible latitude in the transmission of news
U-aiiM K? allna'A/^
Sir Edward Garson and John Redmond, who were the leaders
of the opposing factions in the IrishNhome rule controversy, expressed
in the house of commons their abhorrence of the uprising
and their desire to support the government.
First Duty to Restore Order. advanced by a. Conan Doyle a year ago
that Sir Roger is insane The WestReplying
to a question whether the minister Gazette advocates that he be dis
v, ?.ornoj Q _ posed of by placing him in a lunaticgovernment
had been warned or a dan- asyium.
gerous growth of sedition. Premier As- Representatives of the American emnuith
said: bassy have been in conference with the ;
nt ho offlciais in charge of the case, presumably
The first and paramount duty f th regarding the American ramifications,
government is to restore order and to :
vigor' and promptitude. That pwesiall Force of 10,000 Rebels j
Behind that there is undoubtedly ! Oppose British in Dublin,
an obligation which rests -upon the '
government of making a searching in- , AppnrHinfl fn Ariwinac
v stigation into the causes of and the MUl/UrUliiy 10 M0VIC6S
ve uonsibility for these events. That
obligation we fully recognize and In- i<jkk, April 2..?The revolt
t? ,,ii to discharge," I in Ireland far exceeds in extent th?
, ,, _ _ , admissions of the British government.
Will Use Heavy Hand. according to information reported to
Th*t th* government intends to deal have been received in Irish circles in
f ith the offenders with a heavy hand this city. A fol-ce of about 10.000 reb>
I * indicated by t he. publication of a els is opposing the British government
po*. la mat ion in the (>fficial Gazette authorities in Dublin and neighboring
'pending in Ireland section 1 of the Irish counties, it is asserted,
defense of the realm amendment act The reports had it that John Maco'
1015. which gives to a British sub- Neill, leader of the Irish Volunteers
jec? charged with an offense under and editor of their official organ, the
th* act the right to he tried by a civil Irish Volunteer, had been shot, but
court. whether in the fighting or after arrest
The proclamation recites that "the had not been learned.
present state of affairs in Ireland is' ^ ?
such a* to constitute a special mill- I That ,he activities of Sir Roger
tarv emergency," as specified in sub- j Casement were partly financed by
section 7 of the act. which enacts that 1 rish-Americans, who contributed more
in the event of an invasion or other! h ,,?n.n00 to the cause, was the asspecial
military emergency arising out j ,
of the present war the operation of j sertion made pere today by Jeremiah
section 1 may be suspended either gen- j a. O'Leary, director of the United Irish
erally or in a specified area. Societies of this city and president of
I*ord Unsdowne in the house oft ^ ,
lords, declared that there was now a l^e American Truth Society,
complete cordon of troops around the ! ^ ,, ? , ^ ?
center of Dublin. Collected $12,000 oil Tour.
He added the Information that "a 0 .. ,A a.t
half-hearted attack" was made by the slr RoRer' said Mr ? L?ary' co1'
rebels on Dublin Castle Monday. The lected some $12,000 during his tour of
casualties at Dublin, according to his the United States in 1914. The re_were-.
nteen and majn(jer 0f the money was forwarded
iweniy-nevi-n wounaea.
Baron Wlmbornf, lord lieutenant of *>y ail cabled to him In Berlin,
11 eland, forwarded advices from Dub- where he was next heard from folio w?hr.
8ituat,on wafl in*? his disappearance from this city
satisfactory and that the news from ..
the provinces was reassuring He in September. 1914.'
placed the number of insurgents killed Mr O'Deary and other prominent
at eleven. 1 rish-Americans here who favor Irish
Sensation Is Caused. Independence insisted, however, that
. there was no connection with Sir
A dispatch from Tralee. County of ? r? ?,?
K Roger*. expedition and the Dublin reKerry.
says that a sensation has been ^oJt
caused there by the nrre.t of a prom- ' ?whj|(f h,r?... Mr OLeary gajd ..gjr
Inent member of the Tr.lee Irish Vol- RoK.r mad, ?? M(.ret of ugeg |he
unteers, Austin Stack. An accountant money he asked for was to be put.
in the general post offl'-e at Dublin. He stated from the public platform
Cornelius Collins, has also been taken *hat he expected to purchase arms and
into custody. Both are charged with ammunition for Irish volunteers"
conspiracy in aiding the Importation of ' lanB ?re * for H mass
arms front an enemv meeting to be held Sunday night In
Another man of unknown nationality of Jhe iargea, hal|g 1n Ihg ci(y at
baa been arrested His identity has not 'J',1J s TP?<",ion
been disclosed, hut he was conveyed *nd Dublin revolt will be indorsed,
to Dublin under a strong, escort. I Mr D Deary announced.
The men connected with the Hlibus- I 0. n _
iering expedition now- in the hands or ; IT ROQfir NOW jfl OCll
ill*. pr>v'*rnm?iit lrirliirfp Sir Rf?jr#r Casf
merit, two Irish confederate* and twen- jn TniA/Pr nf I AnHnn
t> -two Germans, comprint* the crew "I I UVVCI Ul LUllUOn,
The chief importance of the capture
lie* In the revelations made of an ex- IM6W otOPV Of CclDttJrO
tensive plot, having ramifications in "
Germany. Ireland an| America Irish- i.oNimN, April 27.?Sir Roger CaseilT..* . ."'.?
flnanVln,'? ?ow ? in ,h* Tow.r
lutionary movement ?f London. He was removed there
Tuesday from Brixton Jail Sir Roger
Sir Roger Believed Insane. |n occupying the cell in which Carl
When arrested Sir Roger Casement is Hans Lody was held as a prisoner bereported
to have maintained a good front fore his execution as a spy in the
and apparently was without hope of Tower of I/ondon in November, 1914.
escaping death for treason It is believed lody was arrested in Killartjey, near
that his trial and condemnation will be where Sir Rog*-r was captured,
speedy, although for th?* present it is not It is learned that Casement went on
possible to say whether he will be exe- board the German submarine in Kiel
cuted. harbor about April 14, which is near
Sir Roger Casement, it is reported, has the date on which a report was circu.
expressed belief that the uprising in Ire- luted that he had been arrested in
r land would be a failure on account of his Germany. The submarine was accom'
cgp'ure. His leadership, he said, was panied by a tramp steamer manned
necessary to the success of the move- by twenty picked men from the Ger|
,"s?
BAHLE SPREADING
ON WESTERN LINE
Struggle at Verdun Continues
With Little Diminution,
in Vigor.
GERMANS CHECKED
IN FORT VAUX REGION
Teutons Feeling Out Enemy Positions
in Lorraine?Allied Fliers
Show Great Activity.
LONDON. April 27.?There are signs
of increasing activity along virtually
the entire battle front in the west,
notably on the southern end of the
line down to the Vosges. The great
struggle at Verdun is being continued
with little diminution in vigor, however,
with the German heavy guns almost
continually in play.
The only infantry movement in the
Verdun region noted in this afternoon's
Paris statement was to the north of j
Fort Vaux, northeast of Verdun, where
what is alluded to as "a small attack"
was stopped immediately by the French
artillery.
In Lorraine the Germans are feeling
out the French positions. Dispersal of
a reconnoitering party which attempted
to reach the French lines east of Le
Mesnil is reported by Paris.
Several German patrols were encountered
north of the Aisne, and were repulsed
in fighting with hand grenades.
A German aeroplane was brought down
in Spincourt wood by a French pilot.
French Communication.
The text of today's French statement
follows:
"North of the Aisne several German
patrols were repulsed with hand
grenades.
"In the region of Verdun there was
an intense bombardment of the redoubt
of Avocourt and of our organizations
on the Cote du Poivre. A small
enemy attack directed upon an element
of our trenches to the north of
the Vaux fort was immediately stopped
by our curtains of fire.
"In Lorraine we dispersed a German
reconnoitering party which attempted
to reach our position to the east of Le
Mesnil.
"On the rest of the front there was
no event of importance to report beyond
the usual cannonading."
The following official communication
was issued by the war office last night:
"North of the Aisne there was a bombardnment
on both sides in the region
of the Bois des Buttes. The total number
of Drisoners taken by us in Tues
day night's attack has reached 158. of I
whom four are officers. We captured I
two machine guns- and a bomb thrower.
"In Champagne our artillery carried
out concentrated fires on the enemy
parks in the Dormoise valley.
"In the Argonne our batteries were
very active against the German organizations
at Hill 235, Vauquois and in
the Cheppy wood.
"West of the Meuse a violent bombardment
occurred in the region of
Avocourt. Hill 308, Esnes and Montzeville.
There were some artillery gusts
at He Mort Homme.
"East of the Meuse and in the
Woevre the two artilleries were less
active. A long-range German gun fired
this morning in the direction of Varangeville
and Luneville.
Attack 8topped Short.
"In Lorraine a German attack, which
attempted to debouch on our positions
north of Senone?g|.was stopped short
by our curtain of fire. Several prisoners,
one of them an officer, remain in
our hands.
"According to the latest reports the
losses to the German^ in the course of
the attack yesterday on our salient at
La Chapelotte amounted to about 1,000
men.
"Aviation. An aviaflk, which had lost
its wa>, made a landing in our lines in the
neighborhood of Uosieres (Oise). Two
officers were made prisoners. An enemy
aeroplane, taken under the fire of our
guns, fell in flames in the direction of
Bagatelle, north of Four de Paris.
"The German aeroplane which fell
Tuesday inside the enemy lines near
Vauquois and was destroyed by our guns
was brought down by Sublieut Navarre.
This is the ninth machine brought to
earth by him.
"Tuesday night our bombing aeroplanes
were particularly active in the
region of Verdun. Fourteen shells were
dropped on the parks and bivouacs in the
outskirts of Etain, four on bivouacs near
Damvillers. six on the Brieulles station,
fifteen on the Conflans station, six on the
Joeuf-Homecourt steel works, ten on the
Mezieres station and two on Rethel.
"The same night our aviation corps
similarly carried out numerous bombarding
operations in the region of
Roye. Eighteen shells were dropped
on a munitions depot south of VillersCarbonnel,
where powerful explosions
were heard. Twelve bombs were dropped
on the Biaches bridge and thirtyeight
to the north of Roye.
"On the night of April 25-26 a German
dirigible dropped about a dozen
bombs in the region of Etaples, Reutin
and Paris-Plage. Two British soldiers
were slightly wounded. Tbe material
damage was insignificant." ,
The latest Belgian official communication
reads: "There was great artillery
activity during Wednesday, especially
in the region of Dixmude and Steenstraete.
A reciprocal bombardment occurred
today at other points on the
front."
British Efforts Fruitless.
The uerman army headquarters today
issued the following statement:
"Southwest of Ypres we subjected
the English positions to a heavy fire,
the good effedt of which was noticed
later by our patrols. South of St. Eloi
a strong enemy hand-grenade attack
ended in failure, because of our fire.
In the Givenchy-en-Gohelle-Neuville
St. Vaast sector we successfully
exploded numerous mines, and in a
hand-grenade attack near Glvenchy
we wrested from the enemy a portion
of one of his trenches and repulsed the
counter attack.
"English attacks north of the Somme
were fruitless.
"In the Meuse region only on the left
bank of the river were there infantry
attacks. These were accomplished by
heavy artillery duels and were preceded
by hand-grenade attacks by French detachments.
All were repulsed.
"At various places on the front German
patrols made hostile incursions.
Those in the region northeast of Armentieres
and between Vailly and Craonne
were successful.
"An enemy machine was brought
down near Souchez and another south
of Tahure. Both were shot down by
anti-aircraft guns. A third machine
was shot down south of Parroy.
"Numerous bombs were freely dropped
by a German air squadron on the
railway lines in Noblette valley, south
of Snippet^ 7
WN . x\\
.V
ifp
111 IAPf\ 11 III I PkPAPIl tr
KAIotn WILL KtlitlVt
GERARD AT THE FRONT
Chancellor to Leave Army Headquarters
for Berlin to Prepare
Answer to U. S.
BERI-IX, April 27, by wireless to Sayville.?James
W. Gerafd, the American
ambassador to Germany, will leave Berlin
tonight for German army headquarters
at the front, where he will be received
by the German emperor.
Dr. von Bethmann-Hollweg, the German
imperial chancellor, who up to the
present has been at the army headquar
ICI B, IS CApCUlCU IU V.UIIIC It/ IJC1 nil vw
morrow to prepare Germany's answer
to the latest American note.
Germany's Hardest Problem.
LONDON, April 27, 1:45 p.m.?The
most difficult problem of diplomacy
which Germyff has been called upon
to solve since the war began is that
presented by the American note on
submarine warfare, says a semi-official
telegram from Berlin to the Cologne
Gazette, as forwarded by the Exchange
Telegraph correspondent at Amsterdam.
"The semi-official telegram says the
answer to the American note will not
be given before the end of the week,"
the correspondent telegraphs, "as the
decision to be arrived at is the most
difficult since the outbreak of the war.
The telegram adds that Germany's enemies
desire a breach between Germany
and America. Therefore German
leaders must consider means of
disappointing the expectations of their
enemies without hindering Germany
in the fulfillment of her heavy task."
Gerard Maintains Silence.
BERLIN, April 27.?The Associated
Press learns that developments are impending
which demonstrate unmistakably
the desire of Emperor William to
follow a course which will lead Ger
many and the united States out or tne
present crisis. The situation is viewed
more optimistically here.
Ambassador Gerard is still maintaining:
silence, following: his latest
conference with Chancellor von Bethman-Hollweg,
but the Associated Press
has been able to obtain information
from other sources indicating that the
outlook has improved.
The latest indications are that the
German reply to the American note
may not be delivered until next week.
The Uokal Anzeiger prints an interview
with a statesman concerning the
American note who is quoted as saying
that in the present situation Germany
should follow none but her own
interests. In a leader the newspaper
says that Germany, while declining
America's supervision of her warfare,
must examine patiently and in a just
manner the American demands in order
to see how far she can accept them
without endangering her self-respect
and vital interests.
EMBASSIES LEFT IN DARK.
No Instructions Issued Looking to a
Diplomatic Break With Berlin.
iajjnijuim, ^\pri j ^4.? rne American
embassy here has received no instructions
from Washington concerning any
preliminary steps for the turning over
of Austrian, German and Turkish interests
to other hands in case of the
severance of diplomatic relations with
Germany.
A dispatch from Washington last Saturday
said the United States government
had made tentative plans to cope
with every conceivable situation which
would result from the severance of
diplomatic relations with Germany.
While officials deemed It unwise to discuss
the details, the dispatch added
there was reason for the belief thai
some of the plans had to do with the
safety of Americans in the German empire
and others with American supervision
of the interests of the Teutonic
allies-in countries at war with them.
WON'T FIGHT, WON'T THE
Why the Price of (
The price of gasoline,
be. if the demand continue:
which to obtain it are fou
are eihployed to produce
Read this interesting arti
COUNSEL FOR VON IGEL
wnnimnRPniK
ULLU UUUI1ULLUII I ULII
Disposition of "Embassy Papers"
Not Discussed by John B.
Stanchfield.
John B. Stanchfield co.nferred with
Counselor Polk of the State Department
today as counsel for Wolfe von
Igel. former secretary to Capt. von
Papen, recalled military attache of the
German embassy. It was said at the
State Department that Mr. Stanchfield
had explained he represented von
Igel In the criminal proceedings
against him, and had discussed in an
informal way the question of the man's
immunity as a diplomatic agent from
prosecution on the charge of being
concerned in the conspiracy to destroy
the Welland canal.
No Bequest for Papers.
It was said that the lawyer had not
, asked for or mentioned documents and
papers taken from von Igel by agents
of the Department of Justice. The papers
still are in the possession of the
State Department, none having: been
returned in response to the demand
made by Count von Bernstorff, the German
ambassador.
Mr. Stanchfleld, it was explained, not
being clothed with any diplomatic authority,
was not In a position to make
representations regarding the return of
the papers, and any such representations
will have to be made by the German
ambassador himself.
No Change In Situation.
The situation in regard to the papers
was described at the State Department
as unchanged. The department is willing
to return all documents which the
German ambassador will identify as
official. The position of the German
embassy is that von Igel is the only
person in a position to say which are
official documents.
Mr. Stanchfleld conferred with the
German ambassador before and after
his visit to the State Department.
ATTEMPT TO LYNCH FAILS.
Kansas Mob of Nearly 200 Travels
in Motor Cars.
LAWRENCE. Kan.. April 27.?This
city is quiet today after the departure
of the mob of nearly two hundred men
WHO came nere irorn iupena u?
cars last night to lynch Fred Bissell,
alleged slayer of Edna Dinsmore, ten
years old, in Topeka.
Reports that members of the mob had
gone to Lansing, where the accused
man had been placed in the Kansas
state penitentiary for safekeeping,
' were unfounded.
i The body of the girl was found in
a vacant house which had been set
afire Tuesday afternoon. Bissell admitted
he had purchased candy for
the victim a short time before her
, body was found.
1' Turk Officer* Arrive in Berlin.
BERLIN. April 27.?The chief of the
, Turkish army's sanitary corps has ar:
rived In Berlin, accompanied by high
i Turkish military officers, to studv the
German army's sanitation methods
and to take part in the congress of
: army surgeons to beheld in. Warsaw,
beginning May 2. "J
Y?
?????? r ^ ~
jasoline Is Soaring .
if not ^et prohibitive, will
5, unless new sources from
nd, or improved processes
ii irom present sources,
cle in The Sunday Stan
U.S. DEMANDS RELEASE
DF CHINA PASSENGERS
Second Note Is Sent England Be
garding Persons Taken From
American Steamer.
Secretary Lansing: announced today
that the United States had sent another
note to Great Britain demanding
the release of the thirty-eight Austrians,
Germans and Turks taken from
the American steamship China by a
British cruiser off Shanghai. The note
was dispatched yesterday, and will be
given out for publicatioflFlater.
Great Britain contends that the men
were engaged in intrigues and plots
against the British government, and,
having been discovered, were fleeing to
Manila, where they intended to continue
their efforts, which would have
embarrassed the neutrality of the
United States.
To Report to Committee.
Chairman Stone of the Senate foreign
relations committee was prepared
today to lay before the committee the
results of his conference with Presidenl
Wilson last night regarding international
problems confronting the nation
The submarine controversy formed
the principal topic of discussion, although
the Mexican situation and Japan's
protest against features of the
Immigration bill were taken up.
President Still Hopeful.
After the conference Senator Stone
declined to go into details, although it
was learned that eventualities which
nay result from Germany's answer tc
Washington's latest demands in the
submarine issue were fully discussed
While the President made no attempt
to minimize the gravity of the situation,
he still is hopeful that diplomatic
relations between the two countries
may not be broken off.
The Japanese protest was up for consideration
at a meeting today of the
Senate immigration committee.
Viscount Quenington Killed.
LONDON, April 27.?Lieut. Viscount
Quenington. eldest son of Earl St
Aldwin (Michael Edward Hicks-Beach,
former chancellor of the exchequer),
has been killed in action. Viscount
Quenington was born in 1877 and was
member of parliament for Gloucestershire,
Tewksbury division.
DAY IN CONGRESS.
Senates
Met at noon.
Senator Husting of Wisconsin
charged that the American embargo
conference of Chicago was
behind a propaganda to induce
him to support an embargo on
munitions of war to Europe.
Housei
Met at 11 o'clock.
Resumed debate on the agricultural
bill/ . . ,
v. 1 . ' .
URGES NEW BRIDGE
NEAR PRESENT SITE
Secretary of War Baker Submits
Recommendation on
Aqueduct Project.
GEN.BLACK AN ADVOCATE
0F34TH STREET TERMINUS
i
Georgetown People Disposed to View
This as the "Next Best"
Location.
Following: his personal inspection
yesterday afternoon of the various sites
suggested for the proposed new Aqueduct
bridge, Newton D. Baker, Secre
tary of War, today Informed Senator
James P. Clarke, chairman of the Senate
committee on commerce, that he
favored the construction of the proposed
bridge "at or near the site of the
present Aqueduct bridge, so as to furnish
direct connection between Georgetown
and Rosslyn, Va."
To the newspaper men to whom he
spoke on the subject- Secretary Baker
said he regarded the foot of 34th street,
Georgetown, as the logical place for the
Washington approach, all things considered,
and was of opinion that the
selection of a site at 27th and H streets
or anywhere east of 34th street, might
prejudice, or at least delay, the execution
of the plan to construct a memorial
bridge across the Potomac from
the Lincoln Memorial at the foot of
23d street to the Arlington national
cemetery.
Letter to Chairman Clarke.
In his letter to the chairman of the
Senate committee on commerce, Secre- I
tary Baker said:
"I have the honor to make further
reply, as follows, to letter of March 10,
1916, from the clerk of the Senate committee
on commerce, in which he requests
such suggestions as the Secretary
of War may deem proper touching
the merits and propriety of passage
of S. Res. 120, Sixty-fourth ConI
gress, first session, 'relative to the location
of-the Aqueduct bridge across
the Potomac river."
"With reference to the first section
of the resolution, which proposes to request
the Secretary of War 'to report
what, if any, request has been made by
any committee of Congress for his
opinion as to a suitable and proper location;
and if so. his answer thereto,'
your attention is invited to the reply to
that question given in a letter from my
predecessor (copy herewith) to the
chairman of the House committee on
interstate and foreign commerce, January
28, 1916, reporting on H. R. 759,
Sixty-fourth Congress, first session, to
; provide for the removal of the present
Aqueduct bridge and the erection of a
new structure.
Arranged Public Hearing.
"With reference to the second sec^
tion of the resolution received from
| your committee, which proposes to request
the Secretary of War to report
what in his opinion would be a proper
and suitable location for the structure,
taking into consideration the military
necessities and requirements of the
government and the business interests
of the District of Columbia. I beg to
state that as the question was entirely
new to me. I have taken it up with the
Commissioners of the District of Columbia
and with the chief of engineers.
"At my suggestion the Commission
cif iiciu a. jHii'in iicai ?j11 inr suujeci
after due advertisement. They have
favored me with a report, dated the
5th instant (copy herewith), describing
their proceedings and stating that they
are firmly convinced that a site for the
proposed new structure at or near the
present Aqueduct bridge should be
adopted.
"The c}iief of engineers gave the matter
independent study and also considered
the views of the District Commissioners.
His memorandum is herewith.
"After due consideration I therefore
ffecommend that the proposed bridge
be constructed at or near the site of
i the present Aqueduct bridge, so as to
furnish direct connection between
Georgetown and Rosslyn, Va."
Review of Bridge Question.
The letter of Secretary Baker to the
Senate committee is accompanied by a
memorandum prepared by Gen. William
M. Black, chief of engineers of the
army, reviewing the general question
of bridges across the Potomac in this
I vicinity and recommending the construction
of the new Aqueduct bridge
"on a line joining: the intersection of M
s and 34th streets, with a point in Rosslyn
near the existing: bridge."
"The District of Columbia." says Gen.
Black, "is now connected with the Virginia
shore of the Potomac Ify three
1 highway bridges, viz., (1) the Chain
bridge, located near the District line
( and approximately three and a quarter
miles above the Aqueduct bridge; (2)
' the Aqueduct bridge, between 36th
! street. Georgetown, and Rosslyn, Va.,
and (3) the Highway bridge, near the
site of the old Long bridge at the foot
of 14th street, Washington, and two
and a half miles below the Aqueduct
. bridge.
"Another bridge has long been In con1
templation, to be called the Memorial
bridge, the site proposed for which is
in the prolongation of a line joining
the Capitol, the Washington Monument
1 and the Lincoln memorial. It is probable
that eventually a fifth bridge will
be required near the southern boun
nary or me uisirict ana leading 10
Alexandria.
Special Service for Each.
"Each of the bridges named above
has. or will have, a special service to
perform. Three of them, the Aqueduct
bridge, the proposed Memorial bridge
and the Highway bridge near 'Long
bridge,* lie within the present limits of
Washington and Georgetown. From
the map it will be seen that they will
provide all of the highway connections
which will probably be required for
many years at those localities, and
that each will serve a distinct portion
of the cities. <
"The Aqueduct bridge is in a dangerous
condition, and must be rebuilt.
To this end H. R. 759 has been introduced.
The papers herewith all relate
to that bill and include the following:
'Report from Commissioners of the 1
District of Columbia on a hearing concerning
site of bridge; record of hear- '
ing; report from Lieut. Col. C. A. F.
Flagler, Corps of Engineers, concern- i
ing H. R. 759, above; letter of president
of American Institute of Architects
asking consideration of plans of
commission of line arts for the future
development of the shores of the Foto- J
(Continued on Ninth
U. S. AND MEXICAN
GENERALS LIKELY
TO MEETIN JUAREZ
Conference Will Be There or in
El Paso, Army Headquarters
Says.
TREVINO TO ACCOMPANY
WAR MINISTER OBREGON
Is Regarded as One of Most Astute
Men Connected With De Facto
Government. t
GEN. PERSHING IS PREPARED
Expedition Has Plenty of Food and
Equipment?Supply Trucks Often
Encounter Snipers?Anti
American r eeling Grows.
SAX ANTONIO, Tex.. April
27.? The conference between
Gens. Scott and Funston and
Obregon and Trevino will take
place at El Paso or Juarez, it was
definitely announced to departmental
headquarters today. Gens.
Scott and Funston expected to
leave for El Paso tonight.
Information has been received
at Carranza headquarters in
Juarez that Gen. Trevino will join
Gen. Obregon. Gen. Trevino is
regarded as one of the most
astute men connected with the
de facto government in Mexico.
Date of Conference Unsettled.
The two American army representatives
cannot reach El Paso before tomorrow.
and it is not betieved that
Obregon and Trevino will get there before
Saturday. Whether the conference
will take nlace Saturday has not
been determined.
Gen. Obregon's location was not divulged
today by Mexican officials, but
it was learned that he was at or near- v
ing Chihuahua City. The run to
Juarez under ordinary conditions takes
from ten to twelve hours. Gen. Obregon
cannot, therefore, reach Juarez tonight.
If the conference is held in Juares
the conferees will meet in the old cuitomshouse.
where President Diaz and
President Taft met several years ago.
Expedition Is Well Equipped.
COLUMBUS, X. M., April 27.?Whatever
the future developments in the
Mexican situation may be. it is certain
that Gen. J. J. Pershing's expeditionary
command will be well prepared, so far
as food and equipment are concerned.
During the lull in operations nine
motor truck companies have been kept
' busy carrying supplies to the army in
j Mexico, until now, it was stated today,
[every detachment of the command is
rationed at least a month ahead and is
| prepared with ample armament and
clothing for any emergency,
j Truckmen, arriving here today, told
oi oeing aiiii?u?*iix:v? jj ?? v> <.<e .c...
marauders of about fifteen, attached to
no Mexican faction, in a canyon near
Satevo. several days ago. The truckmen
and their soldier guard took a
position behind the steel wheels of the
cars and returned the fire, routing the
Mexicans and capturing two of their
number, according to the story. Other
j truckmen said that snipers' bullets had
struck their machines on the trip north,
j but that they had been unable to locate
j the source of the firing.
Villa Prisoners at Casas Grandes.
Some speculation was caused here
today as the result of the failure to arrive
of Villa prisoners reported to be
on the way to Columbus. It was assumed,
however, that most of these are
being held at various bases that the
American military authorities may
mAfnncrKl v A ronnrt
quranun uicm hiw.wuB.iV. -j?..
reaching here today said that four prisoners
heiC at Casas Grandes were shot
several days ago in an attempt to escape,
but it could not be confirmed at
military headquarters here.
While no new reports were received
concerning the movements of Col.
Dodd's command after its victory over
a Villa band at Tomachic several days
ago, tactical experts here believed that
after a short stop at the Minaca base
to obtain supplies the cavalry command
again took up the pursuit of the
bandits. The outlaws, numbering more
than the Americans, were last reported
in the mountain wilderness east of
Minaca and military men here admitted
that they would not be surprised to
hear of a second engagement.
Anti-American Feeling Strong.
T"~ ? An?1 O
rhij r~j\o\j, ica., - i.?i.'iciui?iii|
reports were received here today from
many points in northern and central
Mexico regarding anti-American feeling
on the part of the peons.
The most serious of these reports referred
to towns in Durango and especially
to Durango City, where the
Americans still living there have been
repeatedly warned by United States Consul
Coen to leave. As far as can be
learned here there are not more than a
dozen Americans still in Durango City, the
majority of whom have married into
Mexican families and for that reason
have so far considered themselves safe
The present trouble seems to be due
in part to the persistent anti-American
campaign which has been carried on by
the Mexican papers in the state capital.
This campaign has increased in violence
since the clash at Parral between United
States soldiers and Carranza troops.
Parral Incident Magnified.
Americans who have arrived here
from Durango and southern Chihuahua
say that the Parral incident hanjbeea
