t
a'S'.'lJF.A
6
WEATHER
A1ARKE TS
NEW YORK CITV
Average price or cop.
per for week ending
April 22, 28.12.
3 fc?
ARIZONA Csneraly
fair.
Associated Press Special Leassd Wire Service.
VOL. 18, NO. 286.
EISBEE, ARIZONA, THURSDAY MORNING, APRIL 27, 1916.
PRICE FIVE CENTS.
it
II 1110 VILLISTAS ROUTED 1 1 SKIRfBISH WMM H CPY
- If A". Ai t: it lS i t ft Ji fi . . . . aS ;: m m m. M MA. ? ? ST'-- - 41 '
2 I I M ll Im ll II tile beginning' of lihe war njor'" ! U I M I U I O I O' Mo'rsi nilniu in a stcu!:!cnt H I lL ll L. MULU Warren and Dr. Louis lillic- RAN H UK RF
" -'-' - . i:.,ao (od expe:.u,a ; - kflts of Bisbee and New York WIUIW I IW IIIIU
IILSOI A N D :
Sid MEET !
1 SECRET !
SESSION i
Gravity Of Impending Crisis
Shows Plainly On Presi
dent; Germany, Mexico,
Japan Feature Discussion
BERNSTORFF HOPES
TO AVERT A.BREAK
Secretary Lansing Reviews U.
S. Attitude Toward Merch
ant Ships That Warring Na
tions Act Accordingly
(By Review Leased Wire)
WASHINGTON, April 26 President
Wilson and Senator Stone, chairman
of the Senate foreign relations com
mittee ciscu3sed tonight international
questions regarding the United States
including the submarine controversy
with Ger.rany, the Mexican situation
rnd Japanese protest against features
in the House immigration bill wh'ch
will be taken up by the Senste inimi:
gra'.icn committee tomorrow.
The conference was devoted chiefly
to the submarine issue. While Sena
tor Stone would not discuss the de
tails, it is known that eventualities
"which may follow the receipt of Ger
many's reply to the last note sent by
the United States were gone over
thoroughly. The president did not at
tempt to minimize the gravity of the
situation, but lie has not Riven up con
fidence that a break with Germany j
may te avoided Senator Stone will
lay the results of the conference be
fore the committee tomorrow.
Secretarj Lansing receeived a re
port from Ambassador Gerard in Ber
lin tndur a nnnf.ranpA hAu'PAn thft
ljt:;er and chancellor von Belhmann-!
'Ullwcg. T"vj secretary would not
discuss the report except to ssy it did
not refer to the reply. Count von
Pernstorff. it was learned, na sent lo
his foreign o,ce suggestions on thej
submarine question which lie hopes j
will prevent a break in !inlcma.icj
jrlaiicns with the United Stv.e.?. Tl'e
tmrsestions were sent in diplomatic
relations with the United States. The
suggestions were sent in response to
a request of Berlin which w is cou
rideed at a conference between the
in perial chancellor aud the Kaiser.
The exret nature was not revea'el.
Tl'e rmhlica'ion by the Stare depart
ment o fa declaration of American
government's position on armed ships.
is expected to have an important bear
ing on the submarine questions as a
whole. Officials stated that the posi
tion of the United States was made
known in order that foreign govern
ments might shape their course accordingly.
NEW YORK. April 26-Since
the beginning of .the war niote"
than J145.0O0.OW. worths of -.hores,
automobiles and auto
mobile uctesories have been ex
ported from the United States
according to a statement is
sued by the statistical depart
ment of the National City Bank
France and her allies received
the major portion of the ex
ports. The number of horses export
ed was about 6(10,000 and of
mules 150,000. In the seven
months ended in January last,
France alone received 122.000
mules while Great Britain had
28,000.
:
i
:i
i!
I
:i
:
SIM B
IT
IN
BEE
IS
FRUSTRATED
BY POLICE
Lawrence Mob Seeks Ven
geance On Fugitive Hound
ed To Earth For Alleged
Murder Of Young Girl
TOPEKA OFFICER
SPIRITS MAN AWAY
REUS
Martial Law Placed On Dub
lin County, As Soldiers
Drive Sinn Fein Revolu
tionists From Stronghold
IRISH IN AMERICA
SAID WISE TO PLOT
MOW YORK. 'April 2C Hen
ry Morgciulmu in a stcU'Mcnt
jiii'dc today juiil ht expo, -ted
the acceptance of lii:i resigna
tion as ambassador to Turkey
tomorrow or FriYay, after
which he will niter at once
into tlio cniiipuir-.n to rc-clet
President Wilson. "There is'nt
any trouble with the c&iiipt.iuti.
it is all assured that there wiil
he plenty' of money fur our
needs."
Mciganthnu said there v.-a:
do foundation for the report he
could succeed Wm. F. Combes
i.s chr.irinan of the Democratic
national committee.
Crowd, After Storming Jail,
Discovers Prisoner Gone,
So Listens To Speech And
Goes Home To Bed
TOPEKA, Kansas, April 26. An at
tempt on the part o fthe mob from
Topcka to Lynch Fred Bissell at Law
rence where he had been taken for
safe keeping; failed through tie
prompt action of state and county offi
cers who caused the ptisoner to be
taken from jail and hurried away in
an automobile.
Bissell! is charged with assaulting
and murdering Edna Dinsmore, a 10
year old girl, whose body was found
in a burning vacant house in Topeka
yesterday morning. Sheriff Keene of
Topeka, who was in Lawrence to serve
took charge of the prisoner and ac
p. warrant on Bissell, immediately
eompanied by deputies left the city In
a large touring car, according to ad
vices front that place. It is believed
he started for Lansing.
About the time the would-be lynch
ers left here for Lawrence another
mob stormed the county jail under
(Continued on Page Three.)
Backbone Of Secession Brok
en, Premier Claims. Many
Prisoners Captured; Dublin
Circled By Troops
i ,
( By Review Leased Wire !
LONDON, April 26. British regu
lars from Belfast and England are
now in Dublin and .have recaptured
from the revolutionary faction sever
al important centers which the mem
bers of the Sinn Fein party and their
adherents had occupied. These in
clude St. Stephen's Green and Liberty
Hall.
As a measure of precaution martial
law has been proclaimed in the city
and county of Dublin and the official
announcement is made that drastic
steps are being taken to suppress the
movement in Ireland and arrest all
the leaders.
The government Intends to deal
with the offenders with a heavy hand.
The proclamation recites that "the
present state of affairs in Ireland is
such as to constitute a special mili
tary emergency." A special military
emergency, as specified in sub-section
seven of the defense act of the realm.
I which enacts that in the event of an
invasion or other special military e
niergency arising out of the present
war, the operations of section one,
which guarantees trial by a civil jury,
may be suspended either generally or
in a specified area.
Premier Asquith, intJie House of
i Commons, and Lord Lansdowne in the
' House of Lords, made reassuring
I KtntpmentR thfa nftprnruin resneefini?
the situation in Ireland. Outside of
Dublin, said the premier, the country
was tranquil.
Lord Lansdowne, declared that there
was now a complete cordon of troops
around the center of Dublin. He add
ed the information that "a half heart
ed attack" was made by the rebels ou
(Continued on Page Five.)
U. S. ATTITUDE REVIEWED.
WASHINGTON, April 26 An offi
cial declaration of the attittude of the
United States toward armed merchant
Fhips, made publi ctoday by Secre
tary Lansing, reiterates and explains
the purpose o fthe American govern
ment to recognize the right of peace
ful vessels to carry arms for defence
anrt at the same time, while referring
onl yto warships eenerally, clearly
sets forth the conditions under which
the United States holds submarines
mev attack merchant craft.
The declaration was issued in the
form of a memorandum prepared by
Mr. Lansine at President Wilson's di
rection during the Secretary's brief
vacation last month. Copies of it
were given to each of the embassies
snd legations here, and while no offi
cial explanation was forthcoming, as
to the purpose of publishing the mem
orandum at this time, it is assumed
that at least the substance of it will
reach the Berlin foreign office before
a reply la dispatched to the Ameri
can demand for abandonment of Ger
many's present methods of submarine
warfare. This would serve to answer
In advance certain questions which ca
Me dispatches have indicated the
Germp.n government was inclined to
ask.
In connection wit hthe memoran
dum it was stated that state depart
ment now was awaiting a response
from Great Brtain to a request for
copies of orders to armed British mer
chant vessels. Germany has charged
that these ships were Instructed to"
act aggressively against submarines
and has submitted photographic cop
ies of orders taken some time ago
from capture craft. This evidence is
(Continued on Page 5)
I). 3. WILL COOPERATE BUT
WITHDRAW F
1
(By Review Leased Wire.)
WASHINGTON. April 26. General
instruction for the assistance of
Major General Hugh L. Scott at his
conference with Carranza' war minis
ter. General Obregon. were drafted by
Secretary Baker today, after brief
conferences with President ilson and
with Secretary Lansing of the State
Department. The only official state
ments as to the nature of the instruc
tions was the following:
By Secretary Baker:
"The Instructions are to Ubc-uss a
basis for the cordial and complete co
operation between the American and
Mexican forces in the attainment of
their common object."
While the immediate object of the
conference Is, as stated, a question of
military dispositions to put an end to
bandit operations along the . border,
there is no doubt its result will have
a strong influence upon the -liplo'uat-ic
negotiations between th'? two tov
ernments. Suggestions of the confer
ees would receive attention both here
and in Mexico City.
It Is considered certain General
Obregon will carry back to Mexico
City on his return a definite impres
sion that the American troops will re
main in the position to which General
Funston now is shifting th"m. as a
bufTer between the disturbed area of
northern Mexico and the border, until
the success of the Carranza forc.es in
pursuing the bandits removes the
danger of further raids on the border.
It is also very certain that the Ameri
can intention to police thoroughly all
the territory of their advanced bases
will be made clear.
To this act the conference will give
General Carranza notice of the atti
tude the United States will lake In
replying to his note of April 12. sug
gesting the withdrawal of the forces.
Officials hope, however, that its mote
immediate result will be to clear away
the misunderstanding and suspicion
with which the movements of An M i
can troops have beeii regarded by
local Mexican commanders an:! o.li
cials; to free supply shipments for
the troops from interference vh.ch
which tliev have met heretofore, atul
'perhaps to make possible real joint
operations for the capture of Villrt.
While it Is not known that th
orders mention Villa, General Scott
may point out to General Obregon
that the way to the withdrawal of
the American force from Mexico
would be to lend all possible aid la
the chase for the bandit. With hU
elimination, either by American or
Mexican troops, it is believed, the
Washington government would agree
to an immediate retirement cf the
expedition across the border.
I It would be made clear in this enn
'nection that United States officers
'have no doubt or their ability to rap
'ture the baiidit were It not for tlieir
! desire to avoid clashes with the Mex
' icans such as occurred at Parrul.
I The redisposition of the troops to
confine their operations to a more
limited field since that incident will
be cited as evidence of the fcoo.l faith
! of the statement. .
! The presence of the American
I forces on their new lines will narrow
the chase materially if it is the Car
ranza government's desire to under
take it. or make possible effective co
operation of joint operations are pre
fered. A renewal of the hunt for the
bandit by American troops now it in
progress, both official reports from
General Funston and border advices
disclosed. The cavalrymen, despite
the worn condition of their mounts.
are beating the mountains wnerc
Villa adherents have been assembled
during the lull in the chase aftT th?
Parral Incident. No information is
to the whereabouts of Villa tin been
received.
jmL. m M m M BR m
QMBlBigHtt I i I I 9 1 Captain John C. Greenway
WIBfHUIiH ISLJilW . Warren at 11:30 Veste
. fi fefl U I I B3l III Li. I morning in the preseuee
I I 3b ml I ill III nil only the immediate relati
SEVERAL' DOPE"
VENDERS ARE
flDDCCKn
HIIIEUMlU
ISJTf
I. S. FORGES
SUBSIDE
---- Mrs. Addisuc Greeawuy of
Warren und Dr. Louis D. Itic-
Veils of Bisbee and New York
were married at the home of
at
rday
of
ve
The
ceremony was succeeded by a
wedding breakfast, and Dr.
and Mrs. Kicked s left on a
special train-at 2:30 in the af-
ternoon, for San Diego and
Los Angeles, where they will
remain several weeks.
They will be at home after
the first of June at Greenwich,
Connecticut.
Halt In Pursuit Of Bandit
Cause Mexicans To Think.
American Soldiers Are De-;
feated. Bands Forming j
! JUAREZ IS PRESSING
FOR U. S. WITHDRAWAL
Reports Say Scott Seeks To
Cooperate, But Not With-;
draw, in Conference With!
General Obregon
OBREGON FAILS
TO APPEAR
E
I! SURPRISEDBY
I COL. DODO
I ATiHA
i
Mexicans Flee As Darkness
Falls, Leaving Six Dead, 19
Wounded On Field. U.S.
Losses, 2 Killed 3 Wounded
COL. ERW1N REPORTS
CLASH, COCOMORACIIIC
Officers Make Raid And Get
Four Parties Engaged In;
Peodiinjf Cocaine And Mor- ! battle at Teinachic, in which Colonel j
pkine. One A Woman iDodJ 0"l,'', M vmiitaa. was a-
j cepted here as a strong confirmation
Yesterday afternoon a round-up of 'of the numerous reports received re-
the dealers in cocaine and morphine iu.c(.nUy that the Inactivity of the Amerl-
; Rios Baca, Leading 200 Rout
j ed Bandits, Reported Killed
j In Battle With American
' Troops
(By Review Leased Wire.) i ic.AJr i '
V.o.-. ...... o.- v .. , Generals Scott And Funston
I ftJl, .11111 . U. vi iur j
Remain In San Antonio A-
lean troops had encouraged the num-
a:id resume
According to the information
with elslit Dottles ot coiaine ana mor-, .,,.... hv , ball.i:. ,.hief an,i wi
nlo Al in ill '
a fiirtti-l sooj be driven out of the country
the Warren DistrU-t was made by V
police officers and' deputy she rilTs. ! erous bands of
After the round-up hud been made ; Chihuahua to reunite
there were three titn behind the bars, ; their depredations.
one wpnian and micrmction securen
1. . ...lit 1 .. .1 . 1. . . r. 4 nf . .- .1'
lllUl T. Ill ..-.III IU 1 Sic uur.7L ir. i ... , . ... . , j
The first arrest to be made was skived here the bandits have accepted
that of B. W. Smith and E. W. Hans-ithe halt In the pursuit of Villa as
ley, who were caught on the street j meaning that the Americans have been
iftlea nf nru nine urn! mor- . . ..... . ,;. . . .m.
phine. They were placed in the
Kiunf.l, nnnrtv lull i f. ftirtllUT
search made." and John Roach placed! Mexican oilicials in Juarez urge this
under arrest and put in the city jail. 'as aa additional reason why llie ex
The officers then went to the house j edili,mary force should be promptly
on Naco Road that had been occupied h h
by Smith and Ha.nsley and a search "
made which resulted in the funding I forces of the defacto government are
or several more bottles of the dope ! hampered by the presence of the
and evidence that there had teen a Americans as their leaders have re
number of other bottles emptied and trained from any extended operations
tolled into cigarettes and other papers, ji" order to avoid any possibility of
The officers learned at the house that clashes with General Pershing s
a woma.i who naa Deen living wun ti.
Qr.,;.h q hi aire hut iSn heen en-! The conference between
(Bv Review Leased Wire.)
WASHINGTON, April 2t. The
War- Department gave out this des-
waiting Word From Over-;Pa,,n Ton General Funston:
j r I "Following Just received from Gen-
due Uarranzista Lmissary era, penhing: Namiquipa. April 25.
" t A report dated
(By Review Leased Wire.)
SAN ANTONIO. April 26. Uncer-
bamlits in northern I talnty regarding the whereabouts of
General Obregon and failure to re-
: ceive the War Department instruct-
j ions as to the conference, caused Genre-
j eral Scott and Funston to abandon
their plan to go further toward the
border before tomorrow. Before morn
ing, it is believed, they will have in
formation indicating where General
Obregon will meet them for the con
ference and by the time l.'iey get there
the War Department will, have for
warded its instructions.
Contradictory reports were receiv
ed during the day concerning the
route being taken by Carranza's min
ister of war. At one time It appeared
certain that he was heading for Pied-
ras Negras, opposite Kagle Pass, that
gaged in the business and she wa3
suspected of peddling the stuff out.
A search was made for her at several
places and she was afterward caught
at the house on Naco Road, after hei
return. She gave the officers some
General
Scott and General Obregon is awaited
with unconcealed impatience by both
sides in the hope that it will at least
put an end to the present vague and
unsatisfactory situation. Reports
j 'A report dated April 24 received to
' day from Culouel Dodd. whose column
- of four troops. Seventh Cavalry has
been operating southwest of Minuia.
: state t.'iat he overtook a band of Vill-
istas near Tomachic on the 22nd at
! 4:"0 p. m.. killing lix and wounding
, nineteen others, many probably fatal
ly. Twenty-five horses were captured
'Our loss two killed and three
J wounded. Fight lasted until after
' dark. Impossible to tell delinttely the
loss cf Villistas: Dodd's column when
previously heard from, was at Pena
. chic on the lTth. Country reported
j very rough. March made over diffi
cult mimntaia trails. Villiatas report -;
ed under leadership of Cervantes. Ri
os Baca and Dominguez numbered 1"0
; to 200. Baca reported killed yester
' day at Santu Tomas. Do not give en
' tire credit to report of his death. Our
killed at Tomachic were Ralph A.
Raw. saddler. L Troop, Sevent'i Cav-
from Washington anrf San Antonio g tn reports from Mexico point td to
the American chief of staff and Gen
eral Funston made arrangements for:airy- private Oliver Bonshee. H Troop
leaving nere tonigiii ior uiai ponu. Seventh Cavalry-, wounded Thomas
Soon came tne news mat general uo
ergon was at Torreon and probably
would yet be able to get to either El
Paso or Kagle Pass before General
Obregon could arrive.
General Funston's orders to Gener
al Pershing, although of a routine
character, were such as would indi
cate that there is no plan of withdraw-
'that General Scott had Instructions to resumption of activities against Vil
Smith. She was taken in charge by (discuss "cooperation" with the Mexi-. ja. The cavalry on the southern end
the officers and taken to the Y. W.I can minister of war has raised the' of the line was reported whipping the
. . . . i . . . : ... . ' . J it... .1 1 ... al ... LI . . .. ..... wt
C , where she was held last night' nopes OI me luierveuuunisis iuai mo i ruunirj in uiai uiMiiii. iicauqu.ii
and this morning the officers will de- American government is not cuiueu -termine
as to whether or not a charge plating the withdrawal of the expedi
tionary army, DUl Mexicans anu
"neutral" Americans remain confident
that such a step will be the outcome
of the conference.
will be placed against her before Com
missioner Taylor, at the time the com
plaint is made against Smith and
Hansley. They will be charged with
having the stuff in their possession
and later a charge of smuggling may
be made out against them.
It has been known to the officers
that the men have been engaged in
the dope traffic for some time and a
trap was laid for them and they fell.
The man to whom they were to de
liver this lot of "snow" that they had
when arrested was a fense for the of
ficers, and they were watching him
for the men to appear with the dope,
and when they did. were placed un
der arrest. There has been an in
crease In the operations of the gang
that has been bringing the Rtuff in
the District for several weeks and
the officers agreed upon the plan to
catch them, and through their efforts
a part of the gang has been placed
behind the bars and others are ex
pected to be arrested within the next
few days.
The men will be given a prelimin
ary examination before Commissioner
Taylor as soon as possible in order
that the case may be acted upon by
the V. S. grand jury that convenes in
Tucson on Monday next. There Is a
strong possibility that the men will
waive the preliminary tomorrow and
taken at once to Tucson.
Smith has already given some valu
able Information to the officers that
will assist them in rounding up the
others of the gang that have b.-n
operating in the district.
Smith has been here for sometime
and has been working as a painter
and decorator, while Hensley has been
employed in the mines here for a
number of months. Both or them
came here from California.
The officers who were engaged in
the roundup were Line Riders Dan
Sheehey and Al Saxson. City Officer
Hill Ruff. Deputy Sherics James Gan
non. William Brakefield and Arthur
Hopkins.
The operations of the xan? in
District is to be broken up if
is any possibility in doins so ami
ers officials said this did not mean,
however, that the activity would lie-
come general again until after the
conference, when it will be more clear
ly defined what the future actions will
(Continued on Page a)
$500,000 FOR EACH SHIP
Kops APnn lilt
SUNK UrrtHtU M BtHHIANT
Henry. Seventh Cavalry. Tillman T.
Mathias. L Troop. Sev.nth Cavalry.
l)odd returning to Minaca."
A second dispatch from Funston
: follows: ,
"Late reports from Colonel Erwin
' state that on the 20th instant scout
ing party from command encount
' ered small body of Vliiistas near Civ
ccmorachic, and mortally wounded
: four. Wounded in Dodd's" command
, being well and none expected to die."
Special Agent Rodgers at Mexico
! City telegraphed the State Depart
, ment today that the Carranza govern
ment has agreed to remove all restric
tions on exportation of leather and
hides effective May 1. but refused any
concession from its new mining le-
crees. He said American mining In
! terests in Mexico would have to deter-
mine whether they would proceed in
I the mining industry in accordance
lth the new law.
PLANT CLOSES IN
FACE OF STRIKE
(By Review Leased Wire) t
J-T lp:n.:!r.' r". ! WESTINGHOUSE
p,KJ CI 11 ll.TTlll Of 'l l' " K 1
000 for the destruction of each ship!
carrying war supplies for the entente j
allies. Lieut. Robert Fay, of the Ger-1
l.ian armv. on trial in the United j
States Court for conspisacy was quot
ed today as having said to Paul Wit-
tig, one of the witnesses called today
On trial with Fay, are his brother-
jin-law, Walter Scholz and Paul
Daeche.
Scholz that in placing homos on nipr edilor f socialist newspaper. ; on
ships with which they were unfaniil-,a charge or inciting to riot, were the
iar thev were placing Innocent peo-! principal features in connection with
" I the strike of employes of the Westing-
ple in jeopardy. house Klectric and Manufacturing
Carl Breltung also is under Indict- rompany i East Pittsburg todav. No
ment for the alleged conspiracy. Wit-j tjces posted at the sates of both
I.
(By Review Leased Wire.)
PITTSBURG. Pa.. April 2 The
closing o fthe plants of the Wesine-
house Airbrake Company and the
Wittig said he told ray and.. - . K Mrri,.k for.
i INCOME TAXES RAISED
'FOR PREPAREDNESS.
WASHINGTON. April 2ti. Method
of raising ' ppeparedness revenue
which probabiy will be suggested to
' the House by the ways and means
'committee were mentioned tonight fcy
, Representative Rainey of Illinois, the
i rankf'.g majority member of the torn
' mittee at a preparedness dinner giv
' en here by members of the Illinois
Manufacturers' Association.
"Incor.-e taxes, iin-liiilin the surtax.
. will be increased and taxos w ill be
levied on whiskey, wine beer, manu
factured tobacco and munitions," Mr.
! Rainey said. "When these taxes are
levied will be as high as they ever
can go and they never will be re
pealed. "This will be a billion and a quart
er dollar Congress and at the present
rate of increase in a few years every
session will be a two billion ilol'ar
Congress. While you are devising
ways tor us to spend money for God's
sake tell us where to get it.
TURK OFFICERS IN BERLIN
ni-IJI IV Inril The a-hlef nf th
in time to put the police on the truck iclosej plants said the action was tak- Turkish army s sanitary corps has ar
rived in Berlin accompanied by high
ig's disclosure it was said, came just ,u- "
iKs uiimun .Hniinte nrniection for their em-
a supply of trlnltro-; .
1
Turkish military officers to study the
German army's sanitary methods and
to take part in the congress of army
surgeon to be held In Warsaw be
ginning May 22.
at the moment
toluol, one of-the most powerful of i strike leaders tonight asserted that
high explosives, had been delivered ; 2S.000 men now are on strike In the
lo the plotters in Hoboken. Even Westinghouse plants in the Turtle
then. It was asserted the scheme to. Creek valley. They claim that 2.000 or
tach bombs tothe rudders or ammuthe 3.500 day men employed in the air
nitions ships might have worked sue-i brake plant walked out this morning
cessrullv had not Fa yinsisted upon: and that others followed later In the
in which ho.dav The plant emploves 6.S00 men.
v,.a H..I- f.iith It was on Sundar.i They also asserted that a large pro- of police of Wilmording.
October 24 1915. it was alleged, it 'portion of the 2.00 employes at the'
he'vas alleged, just as a quantify of this switch and signal plant had Joined
there T. N. T. It is called, n about to .them. ,
all be tested U the Utlis duck oi wc-; .a u. nmj--.-, t."'"' -,
been intimidated.
Merrick was arrested on a warrant
issued by R. N. Bailey, assistant chief
He was
committed to jail in default of $2,500
Niil and will be given a hearing en
Saturday.
of the officers are working totlier naw Ken. :v
(Continued on Tage Three.) made.
J.. that the arrests
Several clashes between guards and
' . i . . . . 1. . . .:,.L.t. n.n'ii rr.i 1 1 .-.il . - Kilt fi,n . .
were OI tne airorKe piam, ussr-u mm r -!-. ......... ,....a. ......v
3.000 men had quit. He said they had of serious nature.
