THE ARIZONA REPUBLICAN
AN INDEPENDENT PROGRESSIVE JOURNAL
TWENTY-SIXTH YEAR
12 PAGES
PIIOENIX, ARIZONA, THURSDAY. MORNING, APRIL 27, 1916
12 PAGES
VOL. XXVI, NO. 343
RE-STATEMENT OF AMERICAN VIEW IINDEPENDENCE
Movements of General Obregon
ERHLY
Are Yet Shrouded in Mystery
ACTA ADPim OUIDO AMnMHITDAIQ Of
PIIPPI
IRISH RIOT
He is Only 'SornewhereinMexico '
OF
IS
I
I AN
HO 1 U ttllMLU OHM 0 HIVU IMLU I HttLU
GERMAN INQUIRY IS ANTICIPATED
Difference Between An
Armed Vessel In a Neu
tral Port and the Same
Vessel At Sea About to
Re Attacked
PRACTICALLY ENDS
SUBMARINE WAR
Attacking Vessel Must
Know That Merchant
man is Not Onlv Armed
But Is Under Orders to
Act On Offensive
President's Conference
With U. S. Senator Stone
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
WASHINGTON. April 26. An offi
cial declaration of the attitude of the
United States toward armed merchant
ships, made public today by Secretary
I-ansing, reiterates and explains the
purpose of the American government
to recognize the right of peaceful ves
sels to carry arms for defense, and at
the same time, while referring only to
warships generally, clearly sets forth
the conditions under which the United
States holds that submarines may at
tack merchant craft.
The declaration was issued in the
form of a memorandum, prepared by
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
WASHINGTON, April 2 6. President
Wilson and Senator Stone, chairman of
the senate foreign relations committee,
discussed for an hour tonight interna
tional questions facing ths United
States, including the submarine con
troversy, the Mexican situation anu
the Japanese protest against features
in the house immigration bill which
will be taken up by the senate immi
gration committee tomorrow.
The conference was devoted chiefly
to t!'e submarine issue. While Sen
ator Stone would not discuss the de
tails, it is known that the eventualities
which may follow the receipt of Ger
many's reply to the last note sent by
the UnUed States were gone over
thoroughly. The president did not at
tempt to minimize the gravity of the
situation but he has not given up hojie
that a break in diplomatic relations
with Germany may be avoided.
Senator Stone will lay the results of
his conference with the president be
fore the foreign relations committee.
He left the conference apparently sat
isfied with its results. The president
told him very fully his attitude in the
belief that some of the plans had to do
with the safety of Americans in the
German empire and others with Amer
lean supervision of the Interests of the
Teutonic allies in countries at war with
thtm.
The Berlin Situation
BERLIN (Via London), April 26.
The situation is summed up by the
Morgcn Poft as follows:
"The possibility of avoiding a con
flict still exists if the same good will
is present on the American side as
w 1th us. Hut the seriousness of the
conflict must not be underestimated."
The Lokal Anzeiger says: "Local
German-American circles yesterday
; were more hopeful in the views taken
on the diplomatic situation beween
the two nations than on preceding
days. This feeling found expression
especially in certain business direc
tions which look their couise with
out being Influenced by politica
conditions.
Lansing at President Wilson's dictation German crisis. No new policies were
during the secretary's brief vacation
last month. Copies of it were given to
PERIL OF AMERICAN
AVIATORS IN WILDS
OF SIERRA MADRES
discussed, the president pointing out
l-.c.t the future course of the United
each of the embassies and legations j States depended entirely on the Ger
v... or,A u,t,M ,,rr;f.,i ovt,ianiti.,n I mnn renlv to the American note de-
was 'forthcoming as to the purpose of I manding .an immediate abandonment , an Consul Coen, at Dt.rango City, has
....u,.i.u. .. .I... ,r.t w m.h.a f advised all Americans to leave the city
(lUUiiniMHR HC Ilir-iiiut MIU UUI t b lino j vt. nvi I'lv.mn " --- ... , , (,
warfare. ' ",c "u""
c..,.. t :oi o ,,. bility of going to the border. A serl
from Ambassador Gerard in Berlin to
dav on a conference between the latter
and Chancellor von Bethmann-Holl-wcg.
The secretary would not discuss
the report except to say it was brief
and required no reply. He continued
to receive summaries of editorial com
ment on the submarine Issue published
In German newspapers.
Count von liernstorff. the German
now was awaiting a response from ; arnbas-ador. it was learned today, has
Great Britain to a request for copies , s(,nt to hl foreiRn oftice a suggestion
oruers to armea uruisn mercnam on the sui)marire question which he
N
T
N
Democratic Caucus of House
After Several Hours Dis
cussion of the Jones Sen
ate Bill Are Unable to
Agree
UNINFLUENCED
BY PRESIDENT
So Vigorous the Unexpected
Opposition That the Fate
of the Measure Js Re
garded As Extremely
Doubtful
In Meantime the American
Conferees Are Awaiting
At San Antonio Ready to
Meet Mexican "War Min
ister At Anv Point
D
I
ARIZONIAN
INCOMMUNICADO
ill
time, it is assumed that at least the
substance of It will reach the Berlin
foreign office before a reply is dis
patched to the American demand for
abandonment of Germany's present
methods of submarine warfare. This
would serve to answer In advance cer
tain questions which cable dispatches
have indicated the German govern
ment was Inclined to ask.'
In connection with the memorandum
It was stated that the state department
vessels. Germany has charged that
these ships were instructed to act ag
gressively against submarines and has
submitted photographic copies of or
ders taken some time ago from cap
tured craft. This evidence is not con
sidered conclusive here, however, as the
I'nited States will base its position on
orders now in effect.
During the long drawn out negotia
tions following the sinking of the Lusi
tania. Secretary Lansing has stated in
general terms nearly all of the postu
lates which he lays down in today's
declaration. It was determined, how- j
ever, to gather these Into one compact
statement and to elaborate the state
department's views beyond any possi
bility of misunderstanding or doubt.
An effort Is made to differentiate
between an armed ship in a neutral port
and the same vessel on the high seas.
In the first case it Is shown that the
United States government is concerned
solely in protecting itself against any
charges that might be made by one of
the belligerents that It had allowed
American ports to be used as a base
for hostile operations by its enemy.
Mr. Lansing insists that the neutral
government is to be the sole judge of
hopes will' prevent a break in the dip
lomatic relations with the United
States. The suggestions were sent in
response to a request from Berlin and
will be considered at a conference be
tween the imperial chancellor and the
kaiser. The exact nature was not re
vealed. The publication by the state depart
ment of a declaration of the American
government's position on the armed
ships problem is expected to have an
inmportant bearing on the submarine
problem. Officials stated that the po
sition of the United States was made
known in order that foreign govern
ments might shape their courses accordingly.
(Republican A. P. Leased Wire
TORREON. Mex., April 26. Amer-
ous situation has been caused through
the violent anti-Arnerican agitation
which has been carried on by the Dur
ango newspapers since the American
soldiers and Mexicans clashed at
Pa itu I.
Anti Sentiment Elsewhere
SAN DIKGO, Cal., April 26. Reports
of an anti-American outbreak at
Saiina Cruz, state of Oaxaca, after the
fight at Parral between troops of the
United States expeditionary force and
Carranza soldiers or civilians, were
brought here today by officers of the
steamer Roanoke.
At Mazatlan, where the Roanoke
made a stop, disturbances were fre
quent antl provisions high.
In the Event of a Break
LONDON, April 2. The American
embassy here has received no instruc
tion from Washington concerning anv
preliminary steps for the turning over
of Austrian, German and Turkish In
terests to othrr hands in case of the
severance of diplomatic relations with
Germany.
A dispatch from Washington last
Saturday said the United States gov-
the status of armed merchant ships in eminent had made tentative plans to
its ports in the absence of any settled cope with every conceivable situation
rule of international law. A commis- which would result from the severance
slon, or orders from a belligerent gov- of diplomatic relations with Germany.
ernment to conduct aggressive opera- i While an official deemed it unwise to
tions under penalty of punishment for ' discuss the details of the dispatch he
failure to do so, would stamp the ves- added that there was reason for the
sel as a warship.
In the absence of such evidence the
neutral government may lay down Its
own rules of evidence and determine
the character of the ship and more
over, these rules, unlike principles of
International law, may be changed or
modified during the progress of the
war.
Commenting on this portion of the
memorandum, a high official of the
state department admitted that the re
fusal of the American port authorities
to clear a vessel might be taken as a
notice to the public that she was re
garded as not entitled to Immunity for
her passengers.
The section relating to armed mer-
rll.inl v.iOAla " rt .ha Klcrl, .11,.
closes In positive terms the American I e"'!"te 1Ue9' Lieutenan'
hnt it,-,. mu. h. .,u.l01 l"e "man army, on
MEAT MOUNTING TO
HIGHER ALTITUDES
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
WASHINGTON, April 20. Prices
of meat animals continue to rise, an
average increase of 4.3 per cent from
March ir, to April 15 being an
nounced today by the department of
agriculture. Irices paid to producers
for hogs, cattle, sheep and chickens
on April 15 averaged about 19.1 per
cent higher than a year ago, 6.1 per
cent higher than two years ago, and
14.1 per cent higher than the aver
age of the last six years on that dat
Hogs were selling at $1.75 per 100
pounds higher than on April 15 last
year, 41 cents higher than two years
ago and M cents higher than the
six-year average. Beei cattle were
selling TO cents per 10 pounds higher
than last year, 27 cents higher than
two years ago, and $1.08 higher than
the six-year average. Sheep were
selling $1.0' per 10(1 pounds higher
than last yar, $1 65 higher than two
years ago, and $1.45 higher than the
six-year average.
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
WASHINGTON, D. C, April 26.
House democrats In caucus toiiigh
were unable to agree upon the Phil
ippines independence bill, not with
standing a letter from President Wll
son, endorsing the measure as
passed the senate. After several hours
of speech-making, the caucus ad
Journed until tomorrow on the sug
gestion of Speaker Clark who ad
vised his colleagues to take flirt he
time to think over the matter.
Such vigorous opposition to the hi
developed In the caucus that even
some of its supporters admitted after
ward that Its fate was doubtful.
In his letter, handed to ftepresen
tative Jones, chairman of the house
insular affairs committee today and
read to the caucus, the president said
that to clear up any doubt as to
whether he favored the bill as it
passed the senate with the (lark
mendment for independence within
four years he wished to state that
he unqualifiedly endorsed it and hoped
it would pass without amendment and
without a dissenting vote.
Representative Jones made a long
peecli and presented a resolution to
ind the house democrats to vote for
he bill.
Representative Conrcy of New York
submitted a substitute resolution de-
Jaring "that no action be taken on
this or any (UivC bill af'-oting the
Philippines looking to the establish
ment of the independence of the same
and with withdrawal of the United
States from the islands.
Representative Garrestt of Tennes
see moved to tahle the Conrcy reso-
ution but withdrew his motion when
here were protests of "gag rule."
o
Revengeof Germans
On King Stephen
For Zeppelin L-19
IF MILLION IS THE PIE
FOR Hi OP MUNITION SHIPS
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
SAN ANTONIO, Texas, April 26.
Uncertainty regarding the where
abouts of General Obregon and fail
ure to receive from the war depart
ment instructions as to their confer
ence with him, caused General Scott
anJ General Funston tonight to
abandon their plan to go from here
to the border before tomorrow. Be
fore morning, it is believed, thty will
have information indicating where
General obregon will meet them for
the conference, and by the time they
get there the war department will
have forwarded its instructions.
Contradictory reports were received
during the day concerning the route
being taken by Carranzu's minister
of war. At one time it appeared so
certain that he was heading for
Pleclras Ncgras, opposite vtgle Pass,
that the American chief of staff and
General Funston made arrangements
for leaving here tonight for that
point. Soon after came the news
that General Obregon was at Tor
rc'n: and probably would continue
from there to Juarez, oposite Kl Paso.
General Scott believed that by leav
ing here tomorrow he and General
Funston would yet be able to get
to either El Paso or Eagle Pass be
fore Gener al Obregon could arrive at
either opposite point.
General Funston's orders to Gen
eral Pershing, although of a routine
character, were such as would indi
cate that there is no plan of with
drawal, and reports from Mexico to
day pointed to a resumption of ac
tivity west and north of Parral,
where Villa was reported lately.
The cavalry on the southern end
of the lin
the c'.untry in that district. Head
quarters officials said this did not
mean, however, that the activity
would become general again until
after the conference, when the policy
of the administration would be more
clearlv defined. General
DOUGLAS, April 26. Louis B.
j Fleischer, a commercial traveler,
representing a Tucson wholesale
merchant, was arrested today in
Cananea on the charge of having
smuggled arms and ammunition j
Into Mexico for the use of enemies
of the de facto government. He I
is reported to be held incom-
municado in the Cananea jail.
Ernest Fleischer, a brother of
the prisoner was notified today of
his arrest and is said to have ap- j
pealed to Frederick Simpich,
' American consul at Nogales,
Sonora, in behalf of his relatives.
Details of the charge are not
known here although it is rumored
that it is based upon ne alleged
activities of Fleischer in Nogales
during the feud between General
Calles, de facto governor of Son-
ora, and General Jose Maria May-
j torena, Villa's governor. This is j
said to have been Fleischer's first j
trip into Sonora since that time. I
1
The Most Drastic .Mea
sures to Be Taken By
British Authorities for
the Punishment of the
Conspirators
-
ONE A SUSPENSION
OF CIVIL RIGHTS
Sir Roger Casement Facing
Death for High Treason
With a Bold Front. His
Plot One of Many Ramifications
JAP
ARE
Hi
S
SET FORTH
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
GARDEN' CITY, N. Y., April 26.
Japan is ready to do whatever may be
needful, consistent with her national
honor and dignity to save America
embarrassment in framing immigra-
was reported whipping j tion laws to prevent economic and
racial uisiuroances, accoraing o the
Rev. Sidney L. Gulick, for twenty-six
years a missionary in Japan and pro
fessor in universities in that country'.
Addressing the federc council on
peace and arbitration of the Churches
Pershing's ! f Christ in America, here tonight the
disiMisition of his forces has enabled Rev. Mr. Gulick declared that there is
r.iiri" fo resist efiectivoly or to begin ' a w ide misunderstanding in America
an active campaign without loss of
t'trte. His men and horses have been
stored in the past few days at the
as to what Japan asks.
"What Japan asks,'' earnestly said
the Rev. Mr. Gulick, "is that there
field bases at Namiquipa and Casus sha1' be no invidious and humiliating
Grandes. race legislation which shall involve
General Pershing's report today j ner fair name. For this she has been
contained news of the encounter "renuousiy striving lor years. The
Colonel Doiid had April 22 w ith Villa , maintenance of friendship between
forces at Tomasachie, and of a minor l" nations when one insists upon
engagement between a detachment of numinaiing the other must become
(Continued on Page Three)
o
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
NEW YORK, April 26. The German
government was prepared to pay
$500,000 each for the destruction of
ships loaded with war supplies for the
Robert Fay,
view that there must be no attacks I
(Continued on Page Seven)
Carl L. Wittig, a witness for the
prosecution.
"I asked him," testified Wittig "if
he knew what $500,000 was and he
replied that money was no object in
this thing"
Wittig, who said his sympathies
United States court for conspiracy
was quoted today as having informed
trial in the ! were wjln France, told of informing
Bickerings Of Attorneys
Ends In The Killing of One
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
NASHVILLE, Tenn., April 26.
Charles C. Traube, a prominent Nash
ville lawyer, who this morning shot and
killed Harry S. Stokes, chief counsel
for the Taxpayers in a court investiga
tion of the city government, was re
leased late today on $25,000 bond.
The circumstances surrounding the
killing, which occurred In Stokes' of
fice while the two lawyers were clos
eted together, had not been fully
learned tonight. Traube consistently
has refused to make any statement.
Several attorneys and stenographers
who were in adjtrmTrig offices, said they
- fraiTTieard no sounds of a struggle until
the shots were fired, and that imme
diately afterwards Traube came out of
the office and announced quietly that
he had kiled Stokes and submitted to
arrest.
There had been a clash between the
two lawyers during the court pro
ceedings In the city investigation.
Traube several times complained to
Commissioner Bailey, presiding in the
proceedings, that he regarded Stokes'
remarks about him as contemptuous.
Exchanges had become so bitter that
the commissioner ordered the attorneys
to addjMs all. their remarks to "the
court and not to each other. Traube
represents the city in the litigation,
the French embassy of his conversa
tion with Fay. The embassy in turn,
notified the New York police.
On trial with Fay are his brother-in-law,
Walter Scholz and Paul
Daerch. Wittig said he told Fay and
Scholz that in placing bombs on ships
with which they were unfamiliar
they "were playing innocent jokes."
"Schulz declared," added the wlt-
ness,""that they knew what they were
doing; that Max Breitung was telling
them on which ships ammunition was
being shipped." .Breitung also is un
der indictment for the alleged con
spiracy.
Wittig's disclosures, it was said
came just In time to put the police on
the track at the moment a supply of
trinltroluol, one of the most powerful
of high explosives had been delivered
to the headquarters of the alleged
plotters in Hoboken.
Even then it was asserted the
lacLtme to attach bombs to the rudders
of ammunition ships might have
worked successfully had not Fay In
sisted upon testing the new explosives.
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
Optimism prevails In Berlin that the
sitaation between the United States
and Germany arising from the Amri
can government's demand that Ger
many case her present methods of
submarine warfare will be satisfac
toiily settled. Emperor William is
said to desire the carrying out of
plans which will lead the two coun
tries safely past the present crisis.
The indications In Berlin are that Ger
many's reply to the American note
may not be delivered until next week.
Martial law has been declared in
the city and county of Dublin as a
result of the revolutionary outbreak
in Dublin. The lord lieutenant of
Ireland reports that the situation there
is satisfactory and says provincial
advices are reassuring. Several po
sitions taken by the revolutionists,
notably St. Stephen's Green, have been
recaptured by government forces and
Liberty Hall, headquarters of the Sinri
Fein party, has been seized.
North Lowestoft and Yarmouth
were bombarded by the German cruis-
r squadron which attacked the east
ern coast of England Tuesday. Four
persons were killed and 12 were
wounded in the attack, and it is re
ported that some immaterial damage
was done.
Berlin reports that in this raid the
t-teamer King Stephen was sunk and
her crew captured and also that a de
stroyer and a scout boat were sunk
and a ;ruiser set on fire. The Ger
mans suffered no losses. Great Brit
ain has acknowledged that two cruis
ers and a destroyer were hit. but said
no vessel was sunk. It was the King
Stephen which recently refused to give
aid to the crew of the Zeppelin L-19
while the airship was adrift in the
North Sea.
A report from Berlin also says that
there was another engagement between
British and German war craft off the
coast of Flanders Tuesday, in which
a British destroyer was damaged and
an auxiliary steamer sunk, the crew of
the latter being made prisoners.
London, Colchester, Blackwater,
Ramsgate and other English towns and
a large British supply depot at Etaples,
France, were attacked by Zeppelins
Tuesday night, according to Berlin.
London asserts that 100 bombs were
dropped in this raid, but that no cas
ualties have been reported and that
the damage was slight. Paris says two
British soldiers were killed at Etaples
but that only Insignificant material
damage was done.
In infantry fighting in the Vosges,
Berlin claims the capture to the north
east of Celles of French first and sec
ond line trenches, while to the south
of this region around Senones the
5 BUTTLE
IDS SAY
IS S DEFEAT
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
EL PASO, Tex., April 20. The news
of the battle at Temachio in which
strained.'
f PLOTTER
IS 1
PHI
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
NEW YORK, April 26. Papers which
show that prominent Irishmen and Ger
mans in the United States exhibited a
keen interest in plans for a revolt in
Ireland were found by federal agents
In their raid on the former offices here
of Captain Franz von Panen. the with-
Colonel Dodd routed 260 Villistas, was draw,, cierman military attache, ac
received here as strong confirmation of cor,iiK to a statement made tonleht bv
the numerous reports received recently niKn Kovernment officials. Whether
that the inactivity of the American . tne government will undertake an in
troops had encouraged the numerous . vest igat ion rests with the department
bands of bandits in northern Chihuahua !of jut),ice at Washington, which has
to reunite and resume their depreda- the MUeHtion undc ..visement, it was
tions. According to the information : saij.
received here the bandits have accepted Some of the letters and other docu
the halt in the pursuit of Villa as mean- . n,ents, it was asserted, bear the sig
Ing that the Americans have been de- natures of men wh n hnvA been le.nil
feated by the bandit chief and will ' ers in the nome rule ropaganaa m ', Americans are said to have been large
soon be driven out of Mexico. : this country. Methods of raising funds i instrumental in financing the revo
Mexican officials in Juarez urge this for ,he equipment of Irish revolution, s lutionary movement.
as an additional reason why the ex- jsts were discussed freelv and in snmn 1 T"e capture of the so-called Case
petitionary lorce snouiu oe prompuy ; of t!le ietters appeals were made for
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
LONDON, April 26 British regulars
from Belfast and England are now in
Dublin and have recaptured from the
revolutionary faction several important
centers which the members of the Sinn
Fein party and their adherents had
occupied. These include St. Stephen's
Green and Liberty Hall. As a measure
of precaution martial law has been,
proc'aimed in the city and county of
Dublin, and the official announcement
is made that drastic steps are being
taken to suppress the movement.
That the government intends to deal
with the offenders with a heavy hand
is indicated by the publication of a
proclamation of the Official Gazette to
night suspending one of the Defense
of the Realm amendment acts of 1915.
which gives to a British subject charged
with an offense under the act the right
to be tried by a civil court.
The proclamation recites that "the
present state of affairs in Ireland is
such as to constitute a special mili
tary emergency." A special military
emergency, as specified in sub-section
seven of the act which enacts that in
the event of an invasion or other '
special military emergency arising out
of the present war the operation of the
civil authorities may be suspended in
a zone either generally or in a speci
fied area.
Premier Asquith in the House of
Commons and Lord Lansdowne in
the House of Lords made reassuring
statements this afternoon resoeetine;
the situation in Ireland. Outside of
Duolin, said the premier, the country
was tranquil.
Lord Lansdowne declared that there
was now a complete cordon of troops
around the center of Dublin. He add
ed the information that a "half
hearted attack" was made by the
rebels on Dublin Castle on Monday.
The casualties at Dublin, according to
his statement were 19 killed and 27
wounded.
Baron Wimborne, lord lieutenant of
Ireland, forwarded advice from Dublin
to the effect that the situation was
settled and that news from the prov
inces were reassuring.
A dispatch from Tralec, County
Kerr;', says that a similar situation
has been created there by the arrest of
a prominent member of the Tralee
Irii-h Volunteers, Austin State, an ac
countant in the general postoffice at
Dublin, and Cornelius Hall also have
been taken into custody. Both are
charged with conspiracy in aiding the
importation of arms from an enemy.
Another man of unknown national
ity, has been arrested. His identity
has not been disclosed but he has
been conveyed to Dublin under a
strong escort.
The men connected with the filibus
tering expedition now in the hands of
the government include Sir Roger
Casement, two Irish confederates and
twenty-two Germans comprising the
crew. The importance of the capture
lits in the revelations made of an
extensive plot having ramifications in
Germany, Ireland and America. Irish-
withdrawn. They claim that the forces financial aid.
of the tie facto government are ham- United States Attorney Marshall re
pered by the presence of the Americans ; fuse(i to comment on the status of the
as their leaders have refrained from j controversy over the arrest of Wolfe
any extended operations in order to von Igeij former secretary to von
avoid any possibility of clashes with papen. He doubted, however, whether
General Pershing's troops. j Attorney John B. Stanchfield would
The conference between General carrv out his announced intention t
Scott and General Obregon Is awaited I having von Igel identify tomorrow from The expedition consisted merely of a
with unconcealed impatience by both I among the papers seized in von Papen's r.ubmarine and an 1.100 ton steamer
siues, in uie nope mui n nui n. iraai , flV..,,r office those which have been which appeared ott tne coast at QH
i -
ment filibustering expedition by the
navy secret service is considered a re
markably clever piece of work. An
automobile with Irish confederates
awaited Sir Roger Casement ashore.
The machine and its occupants were
seized by secret service men. When
Casement's party of three landed, they
walked into the arms of their enemies.
I
mil nn pnil to the nresent vamift and i
nnstisfnctorv situation. Renorts from (Continued on Page Two)
Washington and San Antonio that Gen
eral Scott had instructions to
"co-operation" with the Mex
ister of war has raised the hopes of the
interventionists that the American gov
ernment is not contemplating the with
drawal of the expeditionary army, but
Mexicans and "neutral" Americans re
main confident that such a step will be
the outcome of the conference.
(Continued on Page Seven)
zIt Was Dav Filled With Events
About Westinghouse Plant
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
PITTSBURG. April 26. The clos
ing of the plants of the Westinghouse
Air Brake company and the Union
Switch and Signal company and the
A Shortened Line
COLUMBUS, N. M., April 26. A
troop of cavalry arrived here today,
having been withdrawn from Boca arrest of Fred H. Merrick, former ed-
Grande. ib mues soutn or tne ooraer . itor of a sociaijst newspaper on a
and on the old trail used by trucks . cnarge of inciting to riot, were the
bounu tor tne iront. ine new roaa, : principal features In connection with
which is said to be better and shorter.
the strike of employes of the West-
(Contlnued on Page Three)
cuts off the American camps at Boca-' inKnouse Electric and Manufacturing
uranue anu cispia, necessitating iewer
troops to guard the line of communicat
tion in consequence.
Heavy traffic over the old road, lead
ing west along the boundary and thence
south through Boca Grande and Espla ; .
a ...,.,i,n nc iin. f-r v, j pioyes.
I ' ' nDLCllVIUII, IV uiut-o I I I'll! IIIC 111,11- I
tier, has so rutted it that truck trains
now are being routed directly south 1
company in East Pittsburg today. No
tices posted at the gates of both,
closed plants said the action was tak
en because the companies could not
get adequate protection for their em-
(Contlnued on Page Three)
Strike leaders tonight asserted that
25,000 men now are on strike in the
Westinghouse plants in the Turtle
Valley. They claimed 2500 of the 3,-
500 day men employed in the airbrake
plant walked out this morning and
that the others followed later in the
day. The plant employes 6,500 men.
They also asserted that a large pro
portion of the 5,600 employed at the
switch and signal plant had joined the
strikers.
A. L. Humphrey, general manager
of the air brake plant, asserted that
3,000 men had quit. He said they had
been intimidated.
llerrick was arrested on a warrant
issued by R. N. Riley, assistant chief
of police of WMldmording. He was
committed to jail in default of $2,500
hail and will be given a hearing on
Saturday.
Several clashes between guards and
pickets occurred today but none was
of a serious nature.
