Oregon Historical Bocletf
Comp 207 Second St
Tidings
'Ashland Grows While Llthla flows"
City of Sunshine and flowers
Ashland. Oregon, Lilhla Springs
"Oregon's famous Spa'
VOL. XL
ASHLAND. OREGON, THURSDAY, APRIL 27, 191G
NUMBER 97
Jury Disagrees
In Rouse Trial
Enticed Minors
From Phoenix Home
District Meet Is
Greatest Yet
After a trial lasting all day Tues
day and until Wednesday noon, the
jury in the case of Jackson county
versus Ranee Rouse, who was
charged with 'selling liquor, disa
greed. Attorney Kelly conducted the
prosecution, assisted by City Attorney
Moore. Forter J. Neff of Medford
defended Mr. Rouse.
A crowd which packed the city hall
in which the trial was held listened
breathlessly to the tangled mess of
evidence. More than half the spec
tators were women.
The jury was composed of Frank
Jordan, W. O. Dickerson, M. F. Syl-
venter, F. D. Wagner, W. H. Day and
H. L. White.
T. R. Jefferson was the Btar wit
ness for the prosecution and spent
over an hour on the stand undergo
ing a grilling cross-examination. Jef
ferson stated that he had been hired
by the city and county officials to
ferret out bootlegging and intimated
that he was also on other cases. He
claims to be a discharged soldier and
stated that he had been eisjdoyed in
like work In Honolulu. He stated
that on two occasions he had bought
liquor from the defendant, the prose
cution centering its case on an of
fense which it was claimed occurred
on April 15. Jefferson told a story
of giving Rouse two dollars and later
in the day receiving a quart of whis
key. However, he had failed to keep
notes setting down definitely the
facts and made a muddle of his evi
dence when called back to the stand,
giving a tangled story which contra
dicted his first story in many places.
"Blackie" Lowe, a young man who
came to AHhland about two months
ago and is engaged in paper hanging,
was associated with Jeflerson in most
of the events brought out. Lowe
claimed, when put on the stand, that
he did not know Jefferson was a
"spotter." His evidence and Jeffer
son's failed to coincide closely re
garding events which had trans
pired. A quart bottle containing about a
half pint of whiskey was exhibit A
for the prosecution. Attorneys Kelly
and Neff engaged in a heated battle
of words In which "pettifogger" add
other appellations were freely ex
changed, over whether the whiskey
was bonded whiskey or not.
Jefferson's testimony received a
setback when a young man named
Prince was placed on the stand and
swore that he and the spotter had
gone to Hilt together and brought
back two quarts of whiskey of the
same brand as that contained In ex
hibit A. Prince claimed that Jeffer
son bought the whiskey. Jefferson
admitted giving Prince the money for
it and claimed that he had advised
Prince against bringing it over the
line. However, he helped to drink
part of it on their return to Ashland.
(Continued on Page ElgUU
Frohbach Heads
Special Events
H. 0. Frohbach Ashland booster
and the official representative of
Jackson county at the Panama-Pacific
exposition at San Francisco last year,
has been placed In charge of the de
partment of special events for the
coming summer by tne springs water afford to mig3 Matinees will be giv
commlssion. It is planned to hae at en on both afternoons. The Vining
least thirty big days In Llthla Park egnt-plcce .orchestra will play con
this summer, all of which will attract ! certs and acromi)any the picture with
jiig crowds to Ashland. Pageants, j niusic s,)eeiaily arranged for it on
picnics and gatherings of many kinds both evt,ningSi if "Peggy" pleased
will be held. Mr. Frohbach will co
operate with lodges, churches, civic
organizations and clubs In putting on
these affairs. He is particularly well
fitted for this work, having great ex
ecutive ability, enthusiasm and ideas.
A business men's picnic attended by
all the business men of the valley,
church picnics of Valley scope, lodge Written bv the same author, pro
affairs and many other special events duced by tl)e game director, and en
are already talked of, and Mr. Froh- j apted by the gnl!e stara thnt ap
bach will co-operate with the various j peared )n .Tn(3 Spoilers," makes the
organizations In making arrange- j )ro(juctjon extraordinary In every de
ments for these. tail. "The Ne'er-Do-Well" does not
East School WiU
Give Operetta
The children of the East Side
school will give an operetta, "Flor
Inda," at the high school gymnasium
on Friday evening at 7.45. This and
other attractions will make the even
ing's entertainment a most enjoyable
one. The children of the school are
selling tickets for the affair, the pro
ceeds to be used for the school. ",'
Mrs. Lizzie Thiirman Colby, whose
name figured considerably In the
Rouse bootlegging trial, was arrested
yesterday morning at Hornbrook and
will be tried in Medford on a charge
of contributing to the delinquency of
minors.
The case involves two little girls,
aged about 13 and 14, of Phoenix.
Mrs. Colby, who is not more than 17
or 18 years old, Is charged with en
ticing them from their homes, after
their parents had retired for the
night, and taking them by jitney to
Ashland.
Mrs. Colby when Lizzie Thiirman
j was sent from Medford to the Good
! Shepherd's home in Portland and de-
tained there for a year and a half.
She was released in the belief that
she had been reformed. On arrival
at Medford she again resorted to her
wicked and dissolute conduct and was
again arrested, but, to avoid re-sen-tenoe
to the house of correction, she
married. She lived with her husband
a brief spell and then deserted.
Bound to Grand Jury
Gives Piano As Bond
Mrs. A. J. Pierce appeared before
Judge Gillette's court Wednesday to
answer to a complaint issued by
Prosecuting Attorney, charging her
with conducting a house of ill fame.
The case was not tried in the Ash
land court, the woman being bound
over to the grand jury under $230
bonds. She offered her piano as se
curity for the bond.
Senior Class Play
Thursday, May 4th
The senior class of the Ashland
high school will stage their class
play In the hi?h school gymnasium
on Thursday evening. May 4. The
play Is a comedy, "Miss Hobbs," and
is said by the few elite who have
had the privelege of witnessing a re
hearsal to be a scream.
Mar! Wisenbnrger plays the lead
ing role of Miss Hobbs, a man-Bater
who learns a lessen; Wolf Kingsearl,
who teaches her the lesson is por
trayed by Harry Riegel; Perseval
Kingsearl by Aubrey Redifer; Miss
Farey by Miss Helen Moore; Mrs.
Kingsearl by Miss Helen Dickerson;
Geo. Jessup by Raymond Badger;
Miss Abbey by Myra Gunter, Captain
Sands by Ralph Harris. Miss Van
Housen Is directing the play.
Great Attraction
Vining May 1 and 2
On Monday and Tuesday evenings
and afternoons of next week, May 1
and 2, Manager Bergner of the Vin
ing Theatre announces a great nine
act film drama, "The Ne'er-Do-Well."
This is the greatest play that has
come to Ashland for the enjoyment of
Ashland screen audiences since-"The
Spoilers." The play Is a filmization
of Rex Beach's famous story with
which nearly everyone is familiar. It
s an attraction v.-men no one can
you, como to the Vining and see the
play which, although totally differ
ent In every way, Is greater.
This great photodrama Is consid
ered the worthy successor of "The
Spoilers." Both stories were writ
ten by Rex Bench, and both have
been filmed by the Solig company
contain a dull moment. There are
I hand-to-hand conflicts, a great fire,
beautiful tropical scenery and an all
star cast, featuring Kathlyn Williams
and Wheeler Oakman. These two
wonderful and popular screen artists,
together with the Sellg all-star cast
that made "The Spoilers" famous, In
cluding Jack McDonald (Slap-Jack In
"The Spoilers"-, Hank Clark (Dextry
in "The Spoilers"), and others, all
combine to make "The Ne'er-Do-'WelT
one of the greatest film
dramas ever presented.
, ' A special trip was made to Panama
, V i .1
J L ; , , i
J; -T-" J - - a
jC'& h V,' ' -VN&'MS
VKl y S W I
t " , !:, --V 7 .1 t
r j, , v r.-y-' f-' 'm
I'uulinc Frederick in Ljdia (iilniore
Rose Fountain At
Portland Festival
Portland, April 27. All Oregon
will pay homage to Rose, queen of
flowers, at Portland June 7, 8 and 9.
The annual festival In the state's
metropolis has attracted world-wide
attention In recent years, and Port
land is now known as the Rose City
in all lands.
This year a mammoth rose foun
tain will be the central feature of
the floral display to occupy more
than 80,000 square feet In the park
blocks bounded by Park, West Park,
Salmon and Madison streets.
In 1900 Paris featured a rose foun
tain as an attraction, The festival
fountain, however, will be twice as
large as that offered by the French
metropolis, and will be the first floral
feature of the kind ever built in the
United States. It will stand more
than 40 feet in height.
More than 15,000 Dorothy Perkins
blooms will be on review in this dis
play alone. It will require 6,600
plants to produce roses to complete
the picture. The plants have been
purchased and this fountain will
stand ready with its electrical feat
ures the afternoon of June 6, the day
before the opening of the show.
The fountain will be dedicated by
the festival queen who Is to be crown
ed at the center the evening of June
6. The festival center will be twice
the size of the 1915 display. The
promenades through the center will
be wide and more than 12,000 peo
ple may view the flowers at one time
without crowding. The center will
accommodate more than 250,000
visitors daily. In 1915 it was esti
mated more than 500,000 people
viewed the beds of bloom and com
munity displays in the park blocks.
Lyric Manager
Branches Out
The Lyric Theatre, or "Cooke
House," comes out In this issue with
a new form of ad which Is worth
turning 1 to to read. Manager Jim
Cooke displays a propensity for writ
ing readable ads well as putting
on good shows. I.'e explains that on
Thursday and Friday the Lyric will
show "The Bond of Deception" in
three reels, a story full of western
life with cowboys and Indians and
ail, called "Two Bits," and "Rusty
Reggie's Record," which sounds like
a most Interesting title for a comedy
which Is said to be screamingly
funny. Then on Saturday the Lyric
screen will be the scene both after-j
noon and evening o( a gripping
drama, "The Bluffers," a rlp-roarlng
comedy, "Billy Van Dusen's Muddle,"
and another sensational episode of
the thrilling railroad film, "The Girl
and the Game." All of these bills
will guarantee a good evening's en
tertainment. Phone job orders to the Tidings. .
to secure the atmosphere called for
In this exciting story of v,plpt. an4
counterplot. A
lit the Vining, Friday, April SMtli.
Wilson Receives
Ten-Year Sentence
J. Samuel Wilson, formerly a mem
ber of the Ashland police force prior
to an act of Insubordination and an
attack on Chief of Police Porter, and
who killed Fred C. Funk, a Stockton,
Cal., bartender, In that city, was
found guilty of manslaughter and
sentenced to 10 years In San Quen
tln penitentiary. The trial took place
last week, Wilson receiving sentence
Monday.
After leaving Ashland Wilson was
emploved as an attendant at the
Stockton insane asylum for several
months, returning to Ashland last
fall for a brief stay. His wife and
daughter were in Ashland until after
Wilson shot the Stockton man. They
are now in Stockton.
Wilson, who had been drinking
shortly after his return to Stockton,
became involved in a quarrel' with
Funk and was ejected from the lat
tcr's saloon. Returning he drew a
gun and shot Funk, killing him al
most instantly.
Extenuating circumstances sur
rounding the killing caused the pros
ecution to file only a charge of man
slaughter. Funk was secretary of
the Stockton Bartenders' union.
During Wilson's Incumbency on
the Ashland police force he was gen
erally popular until Insubordlnatlve
acts led to an Investigation. Wilson,
believing that the city officials were
plotting against him, called Chief
Porter out of the council chamber
during a session of the council and
attacked him. No gun play was In
cluded in the mixj-up. Wilson was,
of course, dismissed from the force
and fined $10 for assault. Pntrol
nian Atterbury, who was on the force
at the time, resigned.
Wilson was a powerful man and
his killing of the Stockton bartender
with a revolver led to the conclusion
that he was crazy drunk.
His wife and little daughter have
not announced their plans for the
future.
Lieut. Blake Is
Elected Captain
Lieutenant Blake of tho Ashland
company of the Coast Artillery Corps,
National Guard of Oregon, wns elect
ed captain of the company Monday
evening, taking the office of C. A.
Malonn, who has removed to San
Francisco. Lieutenant Dean has re
moved to Medford, necessitating the
election of two lieutenants. Lieuten
ants must be appointed by the state
officers. The company recommended
First Sergeant Spencer for first lieu
tenant and Sergeant Millard Grubb
for second lieutenant. Captain Vance
of Medford presided over the elec
tion. Following the election and drill the
company marched to Rose Bros.' con
fectionery, where arms were stacked
on the sidewalk and the new officers
"set up the company" to anything
their hearts desired, from soda water
to hot tamales. Rose Bros, favored
by playing, patriotic air on the 'Vlc
trola. -
Will Establish
Art Store May 1
F. II. Mann of Napa, Cal.. has
bought the ranch property occupied
by Victor Flint on the Boulevard and
has arranged for a lease for the build
ing occupied by the Hodgson & Reed
real estate offices, and will arrive
with liis family and a stock of goods
on May 1 and establish a novelty and I dresses and Interest, and outshining
art store in the location at the cor-1 past events ns a great get-together
ner of Oak and Main streets. meeting of the women of southern
The deals were negotiated by C. R. Oregon. Over fifty delegates, ropre
Adama of Ashland. Mr. Mann Is nn senting most of the women's clubs of
experienced business man in his line i southern Oregon, have already rcgls
and will establish a stock of musical I tered and many more are coming in
goods, pictures, art goods and the
like which will outclass anything In
the valley. He will bring with hi in
an expert pastel man who will do pas
tels of Ashland scenery.
Mr. Mann spent F.ome time here re
cently and was much impressed with
the out'ook. saying, "I have isited
most of the communities of the coast
and Ashland is the best town I have
seen."
Will Establish
Auto Supply House
The McCarthy building at the cor
ner or (iranito and .North Main
streets has been rented to W. S.
Weaver, who recently sold his shoo
shop to a Medford man. Mr. Weaver
will install a double-trending estab
lishment and auto supply house with
auto show rooms In connection. The
building 1b being overhauled and put
into shape for the new business.
San Franciscans
Coming This Summer
The annual wholesale trade exten
sion of the chamber of commerce of
San Francisco has planned an ex
tensive trip into southern Oregon to
be made next September. In char
acter it will be similar to that made
last year, only the Itinerary will
cover a much greater mileage and
many more towns will be included
in the stops.
Seventy-five wholesale houses of
San Francisco have already signified
their willingness to have representa-1 m'n attraction for this evening,
tives In that party and eentnally Election, of officers will conclude to
the list will exceol 100. The follow-1 morrow's session. Several big mim
ing towns will be visited by these
trade-getters:
Marshfield, North Bend, Coqulllo,
Myrtle Point, Bandon, Ashland, Med
ford, Grants Pass, Roseburg and Eu
gene. Many of these places find San
Francisco their most available dis
tributing point.
Thoughtless Act
May Prove Costly
If you have received a liquor cir
cular through the mail froni one of
the California mall order houses and
have given It to a friend, don't tell
anyone about it. It may cost you
from $100 to $500.
After the jiry had disagreed In tho 'ada, was in Ashland several days this
Rouse bootlegging trial, Prosecuting week en route north on a walking
Attorney Kelly brought another tour, during which he is visiting tho
charge against Rouse, accusing him ' enpitol and county seats of Ganndu
of giving a liquor circular and order j and the I'nlted States. In direct con
blank to a man by the nnnio of Car- trust to the majority of hikers who
lyle. Cnrlylo took the stand and resort to selling postcards or begging
testified to receiving the circular i to make their way, and most of whom
from Rouse. No attempt wns ma:lo ! are "walking to win a wager." this
to show that Rouso had distributed 1 young man is hiking on his own ro-
inoro tnnn the one. Tho defense
waived examination and asked that
the judge assess a fine. Attorney
Kelly asked that the fine be made
more than tho minimum since the
defense wished to appeal and ho was
desirous of having them do so and a
test enso made of tho offense. Judge
Gillette fined Rouse $200. Attorney
Neff has appealed the case and it
will bo tried beforo tho circuit court
when that court convenes on May 22.
This Is tho first time that this
phase of tho Oregon prohibition law
has been brought Into court In tho
state and will be watched with In
tense Interest throughout the state,
as upon the decision hinges much of
Import. The clause under which the
charge Is made prohibits the adver
tising of liquor In magazines or
newspapers, billboards or by distri
bution of circulars. Rouse offended
unknowingly, but the case will "make
an example," according to Attorney
Kelly. The minimum fine for viola
tion of the law Is $100. the maximum
$500. . .. :
Phont Job orders to t&a Tidings.
The annual convention of the
Southern Oregon District Federation
of Women's Clubs, which Is In session
at tho Chautauqua hall In Ashlund,
Is proving to be a grand success, ri
valling the Btato convention In point
of attendance and excellence of ad-
who wero unable to attend the early
sessions.
State Superintendent of Schools
Churchill gave the first address of
the convention Wednesday afternoon
before a crowd which taxed tho ca
pacity of the hall, he being followed
by Prof. Swretser of the I'nlverslty
of Oregon. Both of these addresses
were greatly enjoyed and carried
messages which were appreciated.
Wednesday evening Mayor John
son, President Smith of the Commer
cial Club and Mrs. C. B. Lamkln,
president of the Ashland Federation,
delivered addresses of welcome which
were responded to by Mrs. W. W.
Canby of Grants Pass. Several musi
cal selections and a reception fol
lowed. This morning's session opened with
a short business session and a report
of tho state Federation by Mrs.
Schieffelln. Mrs. E. E, Goro gave
some Illuminating facts in an address
on "Tho Text Book Problem." Mrs.
C. L. Cleveneer gave a report and
a recommendation. A discussion on
"Shall Women Serve on Juries?" was
led by Mrs. C. W. Courtney. Mrs.
V. H. Clements gave an Interesting
talk on juvenile court work and Mrs.
C. B. Lamkln, chairman of tho clvlo
department and one of the best work
ers in Ashland on civic problems, led
a discussion on "New Ideas for Civic
Improvement."
A large crowd of Medford club
women arrived to attend this after
noon and evening's session. At 4
o'clock the visitors will be. taken In
autos over the parks and drives.
A musical program under the di
rection of Mrs. E. E. Gore and Prof.
i eorge Andrews of Medford is tne
l,pr tle Program ror tomor-
row, Including addresses by Allen
Eaton of the I'nlversity of Oregon
and Miss Francis of Oregon Agricul
tural College.
Outside of the club activities along
advancement lines, the convention Is
one big social nffnlr, and a closer ac
quaintance throughout the valley
should result.
A list of delegates and full account
of proceedings will appear In Mon
day's Tidings.
Canadian Hiker
Makes Own Way
Sergeant Adams of Montreal, Can-
sources, working where lie can nnu
lecturing occasionally. Ho keeps the
signatures of postmasters, mayors
and other officials and keeps In touch
with a medical school In Montreal,
under whose auspices the trip Is lin
ing nindo.
Ho started nn the walking tour for
his health and states that doctors
hud given him but a few weeks to
live and that recently he had been
examined by medical officers at nn
army recruiting headquarters and
showed a statement to tho effect that
ho was nearly perfect physically.
"Walking is the greatest medicine in
the world," states tho Canadian. Ho
Is now wearing out his seventy-ninth
pair of shoes. Thirty-three miles a
day Is his average when walking. He
was greatly Interested In Ashland
park and spent two days In the city.
D. L. Glenn, . after whom Glenn
avenue In this city was named, has , (
purchased a residence property, In t
Glendale, a suburb of Losv Angejes. : i.
Cal. , Mr. and Mi's, pienn Bpend .thelr ,
winters In southern California and. ,
the summers In Ashland.
