THE LEDGER In m asTertUInf
! mrrtlnm tlmt brings remits. Our fr
! rates nre consistent nllh elrcn- J
! Intlon. Hooks open to Inspection. J
r Thursdaj Cloudy nnd c on
F ' tinned cool. !
i" I J I ! ! I J
! I ! ! l J I I I
t ..au-ars ' . - r-
rxxxLV iwrviir.rat.v-mi
aii. ruei.ro iKnann-u
MAYSVILLE, KENTUCKY, THURSDAY, APRIL 27, 1910.
ONE COPYONE CENT.
A.
OLD TURKEYS WANTED!
Now is the time to sell your Old Turkeys. Bring them
in quick. For the present we will pay pay for
Good Hen Turkeys 19c pounds
Good Tom Turkeys 17c pound
E. L. MANCHESTER PRODUCE CO.
Salesman: "Why not try one of our Rip Van Winkle Rues,
madam?"
Prospective Purchaser "What kind are they?"
Salesman: "They have an unusually long nap."
We have them with any length nap
you may want.
New Rag Rugs in every size and
color, 49c and up.
at
HENDRICKSONS
Wall Paper
Harbeson Garage
Will Put Your Car in
Good Order For
Spring
Parts and Sup
plies Gars For Hire
Goodyear
Fortified Tires
FORTIFIED AGAINST
Rim-CuU by the No-Rlm-Cut feature.
SlowouL by llio "On-Air" cure.
LeofTnmdt.br many rubbf r rlvelt.
loMoirity by 12$ braided plana wires.
Puncture and Skidding by t!io double
thick AU-Woathcr tread.
OUR EASTER SEASON
LUMBER DELIVERIES
aro very heavy tbla year. Building
operations ot all kinds are In full
swing and wo aro getting raoro than
our sharo of lumber orders, especially
from tho most experienced tad expert
builders. They know good lumber and
lumber values. That's why they do
their buying here. There should bs a
hint- in that fact for you,
The Mason Lumber Company
Comer Limestone ad Second Streets.
l'hont 519.
A. A. McLaughlin. L. II. Behan.
TIRES!
Kelly,
Miller,
American,
U. S. Brander.
Bought before the advance.
Prices right. Big Stock. If
you need tires, here's your
Opportunity.
MAYSVILLE POLICE
Notified To Wnlch For Campbell
County .Murderer Who Ruth
Ticket For This l'laco
(Times-Star.)
Affidavit was made to n warrant by
Deputy Sheriff Adolph Itnfold, charg
ing Elijah M. Parker with killing
Elmer V. Hutlcr at Coldsprlng, Camp
bell county, Monday afternoon. Tho
ccunty authorities have thus far been
unable to Bccuro any traco of Parker.
Tho funeral of Elmer Hutlcr took
placo Wednesday afternoon with scrv
Ices in tho chapel at Evergreen come
tery.
Sheriff lloone Oosney received word
Wednesday that Parker purchased
ticket at Onconto, a station on tho C
& O. rond, Campbell county, Monday
evening, for Maysvlllc.
Fuller Shanks, ticket agent at that
place, called up tho sheriff and told
him the description of tho man who
purchased the ticket was identical
with that given by tho sheriff of tho
nlloged fugitive. Tho man was
nervous when securing tho ticket that
Shanks inquired tho causo of the
trouble. Parker remarked that
had walked tho entire distance from
Alexandria and was tired. Ho also
mndo the statement thnt his home was
in Paris, Ky. lie displayed a large
roll of bills when paying for the
ticket. Tho Mnysvlllo authorities, sta
tion agents along tho lino of tho
& O., also tho authorities at Paris,
wcro telegraphed a description of tho
man wanted.
verdict fok c. & o.
BODY FOUND
When Mayor J. Wesley Leo received
tho messago from tho Campboll coun
ty authorities Wednesday morning to
tho effect that Parker was probably
headed for Mnysvlllo, he Immediately
got In touch with Chief of Police
Jamea Mackcy and ho together with
Officers Bloomhuft nnd Flzor and Do
tectlvo Stewart started to investigate,
Tho eastbound morning nccommo
datlon train had already arrived, and
tho local C. & 0. agent stated that a
man answering Purker's description
had gotten oil of tho train here.
Tho town was searched from end
to end and the outgoing trains on the
L. & N. railroad were watched, but
mo fugitive could not bo located.
Parker is 69 years of age, has a gray
mustache and wears a blue cap and
striped suit.
PRESIDENT STEVENS OF C & 0.
A .Ml 1 A ill 1 I'ASS TMKUUail
ON SPECIAL.
George W. Stevens. Drcsldont of tho
unc8apeaKo & omo Ilnllwny Com
pany, accompanied by a party of offi
cials, passed through Maysvlllo wed
nosday mornlnc at 7:30 o'clock.
Tho party accoinnanvinr Mr. Stev.
ens consisted chlotlv of mnn ennnorf.
cd with tho railroad Y. M. C. A. work,
and tho purpose of tho trip was to In
Slioct these establishments. II n
Williams, international secretary of
tno .. m, c. A., was In tho party.
In tho party In addition to Mr. Stev
ens and Mr. Williams woro Dr. J. P
Munn, J. F. Moore. S. I.. Thomas. S. A,
Ackloy, George O. Greene. S. S. Weeks
and E. A. Foster, Y. M. C. A. men, C.
W. Urnrllov. fllinprltiinnrlnnt if fnln-
graph, B. T. Jelllson, general purchas
ing agom, u. I., acnercr, general claim
agont, J. P. Stevens, general superin
tendent of the Hlntnn rilvlalnn W n
Snydor, assistant general freight agent
nnu u. ii. Alien, superintendent of the
nuntington division.
FIRE WEDNESDAY SIGHT.
MIKE BROWN
"THE SQUARE DEAL MAN"
LOWEST PRICES OF THE YEAR
4 cans good Corn only, Si cents 4 cans best Lie Uoiulnjr only. 25 ctits
rf cabs best I'uBpklu only..,. 25 cents 3 csjis good Tonuttes onl;...S3 caU
These jsoods are worth more at wholesale cost. We do not want to carry
A small blazo at tho homo of Mrs
Carrlo Breezo, corner of Fourth nnd
Limestone streets; niado It necessary
for tho flro department to respond
Wednesday night about 8 o'clock.
A small dog was washed and loft In
the bathroom to dry. It Is thought that
the stovo become overheated and
caused tho blazo, which becamo rath
er stubborn when It burned into the
uttic. The flro wns extinguished with
chemicals and only a small amount of
water. Damago about $150.
BIRTHDAY PARTY.
Mr. and Mrs. Adam Kllcno enter
talned Tuesday evening at their homo
on WeBt Second street In honor ot
their son, Fritzle. who was colebrat
ing his fifth birthday nnnlvorsary. The
oung folks enjoyed a Charllo Chaplin
party at tho PasUmo Theater while
the parents wero ontortalnod with
cards. Delicious refreshments were
served. Tho guests numbered twonty-
tcur and at a late hour all departed
lifter having spent a very enjoyable
vening.
DATE SET FOR TRIAL OF ClSIJf.
I.VAL CASES.
Tho following criminal cases have
been set for trial on next Tuesday In
tho Mason Circuit Court:
Commonwealth vs. Tucker, forgery.
Commonwealth vs. Gregory, soduc
tion.
Commonwealth vs. Howard SL
Clair, grand larceny.
Commonwealth vs. Thomas Brower.
stealing from a common carrier.
DEATH OF ELMER D. OWEN.
Emmcr D. Owen, aged 26. son of Mr.
and Mm. Wyatt Owen of near Shan
non, died Wednesday about noon at the
home of his parents. He la survived
by two brothers and two sisters. Tho
funeral will take placo Friday morn
lug at 11 o'clock from tho Shannon
church. Interment in Shannon ceme
tery, EM.MER MAKES TRIP.
Frank Emmer must look good to
Charllo Horzog at Cincinnati, as ho
was picked as tho substitute infloldor
to accompany tho Reds to Pittsburg.
Mrs. II, A. Lewis ot Dayton, O., is
visiting relatives In this city,
FOB MEN AND WOMEN.
Try a tub ot sooner bath at the
sew, water ft Walts tile and marble
Wednesday morning In tho Mason
n a a I- i . . .
v .iuun oun mo jury returned n ver-
vuJ0 t1hoIll,oficn'lant l tho enso of Ilnilly Decomposed llciiinfns of Aged
Plans administrator ngnlnst tho C. Manchester Man Homered
& O for $10,000 damages for tho death From Ohio Hhcr.
of 14-year-old Gortrudo Piatt, who
In8,!!Mdly 'nJuPo vrhllo walking on Tho badly decomposed body of Jo
,. ra',,ron1 track In tho rear ot tho seph Thompson wns found floating In
Mnysvlllo Cotton Mills by being hit by tho Ohio river Just In front of th"
ti cut of cara being switched by tho Stablcton rcsldenco nt Manchester
tftnl yard engine. Sho wns taken to early Sunday morning by Edwnrd
HaysWOOtl Hosti Inl nnil nfio VI,l. t.i-.in..i " -
ing treatment was discharged. Later letter nnd a pass book of tho Farmers
alio contracted blood poisoning and Natlonnl Hank of Manchester, which
Wns tnken bank to Mm linar.llr.1 ,i,n 1, i.. 1.1 . ....
ahI Li .. rvr, .. 1 U wm b0 remembered that Mr.
nr S V y.f i0.?-011"?.1,1 wns nt- Tllon'Pson suddenly disappeared from
orney for tho plaintiff, whilo Worth- McCrny's Busy Uoo restaurant nt Man
ington, Coclirnn & Drowning repre- Chester early Saturday morning, April
sented tho railroad company. 8, whllo Mr. McCray wns building tho
morning fires. A diligent search was
made, but no traco of tho body could
be found. Just what prompted' him to
havo taken hla llfn will
For ifllrt !nni.i.iA m- irAni i4 lnown. Ho Is said to have considerable
Duo To Sunday Plans. Mr Thompson was never married
ti,i u.. im. il . nn(l wns about 75 years of age. going
grim n flLt anninT P.r".to Mfln8tcr to spend tho remain
wcau'h Snd VrVctv nMl?i 8.UC, " dcr of h,s dnys from Monro tow"
UlSlf tta! Z'?eek wnDbon8auS:'tBa W"Cr " hd 1,VCd wlth
S"f ZCZL,trZV: The body was conveyed to tho Wll-
Alien NiniHnn nHm, ,7 i son unaertaKing parlor whero t was
Wllimm'owe",; Zt ,P..a.10'!0R"c.1 to' ""rial. Puncral was held
Servnnt In tbo ,,.. v, .Ti.iV. m i"" 11,0 "orao 01 l - T- nnco at Man-YobanV
w " li. u. ivjomucrir. ininrmmnt in tun nrti
CHAUTAUQUA PROGRAM
w... . ..au , , uuu t
ilia IccturC'dcmonstratlnn nf ihn f
scope, tho monorail car and the ultrn-
loiet ray.
Tho chautaunun caulnment In to m.
main an extra day this season, In or
der that natrons mav onlov tim mnu.
lar seven-day program, regardless of
tho fact that no sessions are to bo
held on Suuday.
1'OlIoH'lnc Is the nrmrrnm fnr h
week :
First Day Music Mnkp
Dr. William A. Colledge, lecture.
Second Dav Manrnr siHtnru nhnu-
tra; Everett Kemp, "That Printer of
Udell's;" Frank Dixon, "Tnklng Stock
of n Town."
Tllinl Dav Slirnnr nirlnlntl. nH.
lecturer to bo aiinnnnni.d- Viiiinmi
Owen Company In "Tho Servant In
tho House."
Fourth Day University n
James S. Klrtley, tho boys' man; Mon-
irnvino wood and Company.
Mini uay I'allarla and His it.nwi
two concerts. i
Sixth Dav Amorlrnn nirla Pom. '
pany; Mother Gooso Festival; Frod-i
erlck W. Mauror. "A Fight for Llfo In
tho Arctic."
Seventh Dav Thomas rtmnUu t . '
chcr, lecture; concert Mlsa All
Molsen, lyric soprano.
The usual mnrnlnf Iwin... nr,A
children's hours will bo featured.
Mrs. Gordon Gllmoro and Mrs. Do-
'CO D. Corp hnvn rntnmnH rnn. rl
' .1 J.vu VjlJl"
clnnatl, where they havo been spond-
iik socrni uays shopping and attend
ing tho Klrmes8.
Follows cemetery.
S STRAWBERRIES
g Arc coming in fine now. Let us have your ordor for
the best in this market.
" Also
The best lot of Vegetables handled by any one in
5 Maysville.
Dinger Eras.. 1DI fad st
mummmmummmummuunuuuumuuuuumuumuuuummuM
m
3
N
I
S
ft
3
ii
Mr. M II. Easton has returned to his County Judge W. II, Rico has
homo In Cincinnati after n visit to turned from a short business trip
relatives hero. .Cincinnati.
ro-to
f Special Sale Price on 5
jjg Attto uoggies Miis li Lights Safety Razors
Thermos Lunch Ilex Sets Icy-Hot Bottles 5
m
5
M
M
Balls
Bats
Skates
Maruil Oil Mep, 25c Ask about our Moth Killer
M. F. WILLIAMS DRUG COMPANY S
QUICK SERVICE. PHONE 91.
I reblock Panama hats.
Shepard.
Miss 3 I Special reduction sale of luncheon
",8S 0 J sets this week at the Art Shop. 2t
Try a want ad in The Ledger's claa
sided column. It will bring results.
THE HOME EIF QUALITY CLOTHES
"THAT'S THE KIND OF
CLOTHES I WANT"
Did you ever say that to yourself when you saw a well-dressed man?
Of course you have. A well-dressed man ALWAYS stands out above the
crowd. And it's so EASY to have trim and neat clothes of lasting material.
Let us show you how to do it economically.
evimaixsam
CURTAINS By The Pair or By The Yard
Even for a great deal more money it would be impossible to get anything prettier or in better taste than
the attractive curtains by tho yard or by the pair which we now have on special display. In the former
line you will find countless fabrics from 15c to 75c yard. In curtains by the pair, 75c to $10.00, you can
select from a stock equally satisfying.
Cretonnes Are Supreme This Season
and we are told we havo the largest stock in Maysville. Bright sunny styles, cool, quiet neutral tints.
Floral, garden, shadow and forest patterns, all ready in this complete stock. 15c to 35c yard.
Speaking of Silks
Every one concedes the silk store of Maysville is Hunt's. The silks you want are here. Not in re
striction but in profusion. When you see our stock you'll wonder there is so much talk about a silk famine
Some new arrivals in this department are japonica silkettes at 50c yard. White grounds with graceful floral
designs n color accentuated here and there with lust the right touch of black. These pretty fabrics are one
yard wide and will make very dainty cool summer frocks.
191
TO MED SUNDAY.
Miss Lula Daugh, one of tho most
popular teachers In the Maysville
public schools, and Mr. Barney Mc-
Clurc, a well known tobacco man,
will bo married Sunday, April 30, at
12 o'clock, In tho Mt. Carmol Christian
church. Friends aro invited.
NO PRACTICE WEDNESDAY.
Owing to tho bad weather Wednes
day thero was no practlco for tho re
cruits at League Park, much to tho re
gret ot Manager Jones and tho boys,
who nro hoping for a Httlo warm
weather to help them round Into condition.
SATURDAY WILL BE
RED LETTER DAY
DOUBLE STAMPS
It should be a record breaking day with us because we have a very large stock of merchandise which is
NOT marked at the prevailing war prices. Just as long as we can hold prices down we arc going to do it,
though the big New York manufactures are urging us to take advantage of the conditions of today.
No store can sell you Rugs, Carpets, Mattings, Linoleums, Shades and Lace Curtains at the prices we arc
selling them and make money, nor will we duplicate any of these items at the same prices.
Our stock of Shoes and Oxfords are marked 24 per cent. BELOW the Shoe market. Our Hosiery and
Underwear are still at the old prices. Our Suits, Coats, Dresses, Skirts, Petticoats, Muslin Underwear, Mil
linery, Kimonas and House Dresses are marked at old prices.
Compare our prices with any store in the world and you will come back to the Big Store of Maysville.
I !tm war. ... I
tv
,JJLa
