VOL. LXC. NEW SERIES VOL. LXTI.
UURLINGTON VERMONT, THURSDAY, APRIL 27, 191G
NUMBER 44.
ERMANY TO PRY
550010 FOR EACH
SHIP DESTROYED
Bo Carl Wittier Testifies Captain
Robert Fay Told Him Evi
dence Taken in Kay's Trial for
Conspiracy.
MONEY WAS NO OBJECT
Willie, Whose Sympathies Are
with France, Says He Notified
the French Embassy. Which
Afterward Informed the New
York Police of Story.
New York, April 0. The German
povernmont was prepared to pay
?.",00,000 each for the ilest rnetlon of
ships loaded wltli war supplies for the
entente allies, Lieut, Robert Fay of thej,,,sul Coen at Diltnnito Pity has ud
tierinan aimi, on trial in the Fuited j vsol )) .tnorlruns to Vnve the city
States court for coiispitucy. was quoted ',,,,, himself considering the ndvis-to-day
as having Informed Carl 1 ,,,ility of going to the border. A se
Wlttlg. a witness for the. prosecution. ,.,, situation has been caused through
"I asked him." testified Wit tic. aj,, violent nnti-Amerlean imitation
chemical engineer, "ff ho knew what , whil.h ,.rn ,rl.(,,, bv tll(. nill..
5 mi.oon was, and ho replied thatllI1Kn newspapers since the American
ninne was no oojcci m mis ining.
W Ittlg, vim declaied his sympathies
In the vir wcie with Franco, told of
li fi rmliu' Hie
eon versa t'o s
in t"rn ii t . t .
i in irl.i v .t
Idtt W-i'i.i
French embassy . of Ida
with Fay. The embassy
d the New York police,
i I'ay are his brnthcr-in--i
hoi?, and l'anl Daecho.
ittlg said he t
I p! icil inn,!
i'd Fay and Peholr. that
s nn ships with which
tliey were unfamiliar they "weio placing
liiriocent people in jeopardy."
"Hi nolz declared.' added the witness,
"i bat the knew what they were iIoIhk:
lb.it Ma. Breltting was tnlllUR them on
u li KhlpH ainmunllinn was being
m d-iied
I iei'ing ,ilo is under iurtii tinent lor
I allesod conspiracy.
Wlttig's disclosures, it was said, cat no
J si in t'nie to put the police on tin
Ira k s t the moment of a supply of
trinltrotobtni, one of the most power
f ii of ex ilnslvcs, had been rlelheied to
the bi adipiai ti fi of the alleged plotters
P Ilohol.it, Fven then, it was aSfClteii,
the si iieme to attach bombs to tile rtid
ilcts of ammunition ships miRlit have
worked s iccessf ully had not Fay insist
ed n i fs'u R the new explosive In which
In had Utile faith. it was on Sunday,
f a 'iiber 21. It vra allc-'ed, just as
ii i iiantltv of t Is T-N-T, as it Is railed,
w i nbi it to 'ie te-ied In the hills ba k
of eeuaw '.c n, that the arrests were
r lib
U. S. ATTITUDE AS TO
ARMED SHIPS DEFINED
a- binctoii, pril . An oniel.il deela
laTn of the attitude of the Fnlted States
'c.vard armed merchant shi'is, made pub
lic to-da' by Hecrn'.ary I.ansInR, reiter
ates and explains the puipose of the
American Kovernnieiit to n Rtilze tlio
'riRh' of peaceful vessels to carry arms
for defense and at the same time, whilo
leferrinR only 10 warship Renerally,
tlcarly sets forth the conditions under
which the 1'nite.d States holds subma
rines may attink merchant craft.
The declaration was Issued in the form
of a memorandum prepared by Mr.
iJimduK tit President Wilson's direction
diii-liiR tin secietary's bilef vacation last
month Copies of it weio Riven to eai li of
t' embatsics and leRatlon.i bete, and
villi no olllcial explanation was fo'th
comlnR an to tho purposo of inibllshin
ttu memorandum at this time, it is as
s'uned t''nt at least the substance of it
i' rraeh tlie lierlln foreiRn ollbe belore
n icnly U despatched to the Amirlcan
rterriand for abandonment of CJermanyV
ptcsent methods of suhniarlnn warfaie.
This would scno to answer In advance
certain questions which cablo despatches
havo Indicated the (U rmaii Rovenuncnt
w.-us Inclined to ask
MORE UNINSTRUCTED
DELEGATES ELECTED
Alhunucrtiuc, Jf, M Aplil ?-,. Now
Mexico's delegation elected at the
Rtato convention held hero will go
to tho national republican convention
nnltiftitrut ted. Political leailnrs declared,
however, that fivo of tho six delegates
wcto for Theodora Roosevelt.
HK.VR FROM UKRARD.
Washington, Apt II W. Secretary Lan
hing announced lain lo-day that he. had
received Ambassador Gerald's report of
his conference wltli Chaurelltiri 'on
Hethnian-ilollweg of Germany and
It wa brief,
"1 can say nothing about It,"
Secretary Lansing's only comment
that
thens special says that Gicece Is
bankrupt wltli not a cent In tho treasury,
It has been borrowing from Industrial
impanles and last raised j:o,000 from
wine company Army lias nut been paid
for two months and only olllcers can got
an" money Allies hao refused to ad.
vaiico a loan and situation Is desperate
IJnglnud s loan or J i;i,mi),U"0 to cover a
month has been stiotclied out for four,
At least FJOOjufljiOii Is needed to innko tho
country solvent. Present ministry cannot
kduml.
Strike of anthracite mlneiH appearH
mure likely with President White of the
1 'lilted Mine Workers of America'H stato
ment to operatois that no contract not ln-
hiding lecognitlon of tho union would be
acceptable to miners Opeiators are un
it tood to liavn consented to a live per
(cut wago advance, compatcd with an
Mlginal demand for per cent., Miners'
representatives will recommend strlk"
imlesa union Is I ocnghlzcil. President
Whitej asserts union membership has In
creased from So.OO to l.''),0W out of a poa
3ibu i: ,ojo.
OBREGON ON WAY
TO CONFERENCE
Will Meet Scott at Juarez or El
Pa,so Dotld Clashes with
Villa Troops Americans
May Leave Torreon.
Nuovo Laredo, Mo.v . April IM.-Gcn.
Alvaro (ibroRnn, Mexican war minister,
Is en route l chihuahua to-nlghl, tit
cording In :iti apparently authentic re
port hcie. This Is taken to Indicate lie
expects to meet Gen. Hugh I.. Scott
either In Mnnrer, or Kt Paso. Carranza
ottlclnlK lure iinnontu'eil earlier in the
ilny that Ohrcgnn would reach Monterey
to-day on his way to Plcdrns Nogras.
but the war minister, It Is said, chunRcd
his plans and Is going to Chihuahua via
Torreon.
WnshlnRlon, April
2. The war dopart-
ment gave out this
despateh from Clen-
oral Funstnn:
"Following just received from General
Pershing: 'Nnmlitilpn, April 25. A re
port dated April L'lth received to-day
from f'oionel Dodd, whose column of i
four ttoops, Seventh cavalry, has been
operating southwest of Mln.lca. static
that he overtook a band of Vlilastas
mar Tomaehls on nd at :: p. m.,
1 llling six atal wounding pi others, many
probably fatally. Twenty-live horse
were captured. Our loss, two killed and
three wotmdeil. Fight lasted until after
dailt. Impossible to tell definitely lus
of Villlstas.' "
Torreon, Mux,, April 'JO. American
P,,i,ii(,,..s mui Mexicans clashed at 1
'at-
,.ai
C. A. PRATT KILLED AT MILTON
I'rnminiMit llrrrlimitt Just ltd unietl
fruiti I'lfiriilii. tntrU by Sliiintril
Milton, April "0. Cassias A. Pratt, a
prominent citizen of this town, was In
stantly killed this morning about nine
o'clock by a freight car "kicked" on to
blm at the cro.slnc at the station. Mr.
Pratt was watchliiR a frelRht train nun
Iiir on tlie main track from the north,
wlille tlie way freiRlit was maklnR a fly
Iiir switch from the South, and as his
back was turned to it, tho car was shunt
ed on to him.
Mr. Piatt had Just returned from Cres
cent City, Fla., where he had spent the
winter, and was openliiR his home here.
For manv years he was in the mercantile,
business, bclnR a member of do firm of
II. II. P.ankln Co., but his health failed
about tho time his brother-in-law, Mr.
Unnkin, died, and he Rave up business.
He had much real estate and other busl
ie s interests to look after.
lie bad represented Milton in the l.cpis
lature and held many public olllces. He
was a tr.istee of tho ConRropational
Church, lie leaves his wife and thtee
ilauRliters. Mrs. Arthur Mann of New
York city, Mrs. Porter Plerpont of Sa
vannah, (la., and Mrs. John Drew of
lUinitiey, N. TI. He had a summer home
at Camp Itlcb.
u. s.
WILL SOLVE OUR
DYESTUFF PROBLEM
lioston. April !'. The problem of te
construituiR the dyestutfs Industry lit
this country, to lusmo a regular supply
for the textile trade Is near solution, ac
cording to speakers at the opening ses
sions of tlie National Association of Cot
ton Manufacturers to-dav
"The Rreat needs of the past year."
I'dward S. Cliapln stated, "have been
responsible for hrlnRlnu to IIrIu many
studies on the use of mordants and
dyestuffs that would otherwise probablv
never have been puli'Ished or practically
tried out.
MERCANTILE MARINE
DEAL GOES THROUGH
New Yor!, April ji Control of the
International Mercantile Marine, rom
pany, commonly known at tho time of
its formation by ,T. P. Morgan & Co.,
ilmost 15 yenrs ago, as tho "shipping
trust" and now In the hands of a re
ceiver, has been acquired by tho Amerl-
an International corporation, It wag
authoritatively learned to-day.
The American International corpora
tion, a $.'0,0eo,010m0 organization, formed
by the National City bank and allied In
terests a few months ago, has for its
main object tho promotion of American
trade in foreign fields.
Tells of Meetings with Utley.
Montpclior, April 27. Mrs. Charlotte
Phelps, wifo of Frank C. Phelps of
CaboU the plaintiff In the $10,000
alienation suit against Chariot Utloy,
a well-to-do lumber manufacturer of
Cabot, complotoel her testimony lato
this morning aflcr having been on the
stand for over four hours. On cross-
examination sho told of keeping ap
pointments with Utloy on tllfforont oc
casions last fall. Her last mooting was
on Novembor 2, 1915, and tho feillowlng
lay bhe eanii! to Montpollcr with her
husband. Sim did not know that a
wilt was to bo brought against Utley
until after the papers were made out
and sho soon after revealed to her hus
band tho dates of her different meet
Iiirs with tho defendant.
She was followed on tho stand by
uo.sa jnoyes, who told of a meeting
wltli .Mrs. Phelps after nun of the,
secret meetings. Fred Lyfotd and Cat
roll Peck,
Mrs. RoRcr.s Acquitted.
ew ork, April 2fi. Mrs. Ida
Knlffon Walters Rogers, who poisoned
her twei children on December "!i, Rill,
received tier fieedom in siipicuio court
lime to-day after a Jury hud ucipilttcd
her of Iho murder of her two year old
sou, John. Iho verdict was "not guiltv
on tho gitiund of Insanity." After the
verdict was returned tho court tils
missed, on motion of tho district attor
neys' office, another Indictment charg
ing lier wltli tho minder of her tlaugh
lea, Lorlda, eight months old.
KAISER DE-SIRES
TO KEEP PEACE
WITH AMERICANS
Hopes for Formation of
Which Will Lead the
Plans
Two
Countries Past the Present
Submarine Crisis.
BERLIN IS OPTIMISTIC
German Sea Raid on England
Resulted in Sinking of Steam
er, Destroyer and Scout Boat
!)..!: r t 7:t ... rr'
ltl mi kVt)Ui is 1 itlJi. nil .
Flanders Coast.
London, Aptll 2t!. Optimism prevails In
lierlln that tlie situation between the
1'iiiteil States ami 'iennany arising from
tlie Ameiican o i nimeiit's demand that
Oermnio tease her presenl methods of
Hiibinariiie warfaie will be satisfactorily
settled, lbnperoi William Is said to de
sire the carrying out of plans which will
lead Iho two countries sately past tho
ptesem i rlsls. The Indications In Uer
lln nie that (iermnny's teply to tlie
Amerienn pole may not he determined
until next wecU.
Moth Lowestoft and ynrmouth were
bombarded by the (iernian craKcr siuad-
i run which attacked tlie eastern coast of
Kngland Tuesday. Knur persons were
killed and LI wouiiileil In the attack, and
considerable material damage was done.
IVrllu lepoits that In this laid, the
steatmr King Stephen was sunk and her
crew captured, and also that a destroyer
and a scout boat were sunk and a cruiser
set on lire. The Germans .surfen-d no
Ins-es. Great Britain has acknowledged
that two cruisers and a destroyer were
hit, but said no vessel was sunk. It was
the King Stephen which leoently refused
to give aid to the crew of tlie Zeppelin
L-l!) while the airship was adrift in the
North sea.
A report from Herlln also says that
there was another engagement between
Ilritlsh and German war craft off the
eoat of Flanders Tuesday in which a
llritish destroyer was damaged and an
auxiliary rteanier sunk, the crew of tho
latter being made prisoner.
London, Colchester, Hlackwater and
Itani'-Rate and other Hngllsh towns, and
a huge P.titish supply depot at ICtaples,
France, were, attacked by Zeppelins
Tuesday night, according to lierlln. j
London asserts that 100 bombs weru ,
dropped In tills mid. but that no '
casualties have been reported and that ,
tlie damage was slight. Paris says two'
liritlsli soldiers were killed tit I'taplcs. I
but that only Insignificant material'
damage was done.
In Infantry fighting in Vosges moun
tains Ilerliu claims the capture to the
northeast of Celles of French first and I
second line trenches while to the soutli
of this region, around Henones, the
French say they frustrated si German
nltaok against their position.
Aside from this fighting artillery
bombardments and sapping operations
have formed tlie chleC method of war
fare on the western front. Tlie regions
of Avocourt, Hill Jif, IJsnes and
Mnntzeville northwest of Verdun, con
tinue the scent) of violent artillery ac
tivity. Tho aerial corps of both tho
French and the Get mans have been
engaged In fighting In the air or bomb
dropping manouevres.
No reports of important events have
I been receivfd from any of the other
war theatres.
APPOINT TRUSTEES FOR
GR1SWOLD & MACKINNON
Inn's OiilNtniMlIng Debt Are XIIHI.OOO
.NnctN Are .Sln.OIIO.
St. Johnsbury, April 2fi. Tlie credi
tors of GrlRwnld & MacKinnon met to
day and appointed Jonas II, IJrooks and
Harry Mlodgett trustees to handlo tho
property and dispose of the stock on
hand. They lu'ivo authority to make,
any arrangements about the continu
ance of the business ami It is thought
that bankruptcy proceedings will not
be brought against the concern, A
statement of tlie liabilities shows that
the concern has outstanding debts of
about SIDO.OOA. The assets jiro $10R,-
(100. Liabilities of ?U",000 nro dis
tributed among IL' banks In Vermont
nnd New Hnmpsblre, none of which
will lie seriously affected.
Holmes to Have Opponent.
St. Albans, April ill, Genrgo t
Holmes, who since pine years ago last
December has been Flicriff In Franklin
county, will have an opponent for the
nomination at the republican county con
vention, Deputy Sheriff Charles W. Gib
belt of Georgia having announced him
self a candidate for the office, Mr
Holmes, wlio Is a candidate for renom
Inatlon, is circulating a petition among
the voters of the county.
D. V. Tourney Dead.
Orange, N .!.. April 2i',. . Daniel P
Toomev, publisher of the Columhlad
the official paper of (he Knights of
Columbus, died at his homo in Fast
Orange to-da.v. He was born In Ireland
in 1MIJ. lie, was widely known to Itlsli
men throughout the I'nltcd Slates. in
isirt lie wiih elected to the common conn
e of Hoston and in 1W became a mem.
her of the Massachusetts Lcglslaluie.
lie enme hero about ten .veins ago,
TuKjjart Nominated.
Ii'illaiiapoll.'. April 2fi. Indiana dem
ocrats in the).- convention here to-day
nominated Thoin.is 'iaggurt for the.
short toim In tho 1'iiitcd States Senate,
ratified tho nomination In the .March
pilmury of Senator John W. Korn for
the long term, ayd Representative John
A, L Adulr for governor.
PRICES OF MEAT
ANIMALS RISE
Average Increase of 4. V, per Cent,
between March 15 and April
15, the Government
Reports.
Washington, April a!. Prices of meat
animals continue t" rise, an nveritso In.
ereaso of 1,3 per cent., from March 15 to
April 15, being announced to-day by the
department of agriculture. Priced being
paid to producers for lions, cattle, sheep
and chickens on April 15 averaged about
10.1 tier cent, higher lhan n year iiro, C.l
per cent. higher lhan two years ago, and
It. I per cent. higher than tho avcraRe of
the last s!. cars on that date.
Mors were hcllliiR at $1.73 per hundred
pounds hlKhcr than on Apill last year,
41 cents blRlier than two years ago and
1 cents hlRlier than the six year average,
l'.eef cattle were selling TO t enlv per
hundred pounds higher than last year, !'."
cents hlRher than two yearn aRo and
hlRher tlin nthe us year aver.iRe. Sheeti
wete selling Jl "' PC. hundred pounds
hlRher than the us year avcraRe. Sheep
IVVII I'nnru ,ttr,, 'iml lillfli.tr flifitt til,.
. '
six year averai'.e
BETHEL (UN BEATEN UP
I'eer
Ills
l.nrnek, 21, Held In s.-.,imil, after
flrntlicr-lii-l.mv, I'.liner Wntli
liurn. Is I'linnd Injured.
Ilethel, Aptil '.'.Peter Laroek. aged
"1 years, Is heltl Ii, default of J5,Cn) tiall
for alleged niurilerous assault on Klmer
Washburn, aged .V, who was found
early this morning by tlie railroad
tracks In this city, liavinR been badly
beaten. La rock waived examination late
this afternoon when ball was fixed,
which he was unable to i-ecure.
Washburn, who is Larock's brother-in-law,
was taken to the Randolph sani
tarium, with sllRlit chances of recovery.
He is mlferiiig from concussion, a
biokeu jaw. riml other Injuries. His
condition to-night la very low. An
operation was performed to relieve the
concussion.
The men wete seen together early
Tuesday evening, about nine o'clock. It
Is supposed that the attack occurred
about IO) or thereabouts and that the
man had lain near the tracks all night.
Near ids body was found a blood
stained stick.
Larock was arrested in Itandnlph at
noon to-day by Deputy Sheriff Putnam
on complaint of Grand Juror Paul Wil
son of pethel, State's Attorney I!. K.
Cole being out of the State. March M,
Wilson of Randolph represented Laroek
and Datclielder, Thompson and Hatehel
der appeared for the State at the hear
ing tin's afternoon.
Washburn was employed as a farm
band at the Harraden estate three miles
from this village on tlie road to Han
dolph. 14 MACHINE GUN
New York. April ' -A two weeks' en
campment at Fort Ktban Allen, Vt , dur
ing which tlie machine gun operators of
the various National Guard organizations
will be put through their tlrt tegular
battle pi act ice, lias been ariangeil
by
tlie war department. It was learned es-
tcrday. when National Giiunl heatl-
luarters In tho Minlcipal building made
public the proposed pat ticlpatlon of Nci
York troops.
There will be about fourteen National
Guard machine gun organizations at J'tu t
Kthan Allen. There also will be the
machine gun company of the Thirteenth
Infantry from Plaltsburgb and the ma
chine gun troop of the Second cavalry
stationed at Fort Hthnu Allen. The camp
will begin on July S and will end July
Colonel Joseph T. Dickman, com
mander of the Second cavalry, likely will
be 111 charge of the mobilization.
Among those who will direct the
piactical work of tlie assembled troops
will be Captain William Hinedhtirg, Jr.,
of the Second cavalry, one of tho army
machine gun experts. Captain Smedburg
had charge of the "rookie" machine gun
enthusiasts at Plattnburgh last sum
mer.
There also will bo nlRht exercises, when
tile men will have to "pick ti)" their
targets by searchlight,
AN ATTEMPT TO
E
New York, April 'Si. Charges tmt Ger
man agents had sought to shift responsi
bility for the sinking of the steamship
Lusltanla to tho Cuminl Steamship com
pany by attempting to peisuade survivors
to sue the owners of the liner for dam
ages on the ground of negligence, wcie
made at a meeting to-day of pemiuii who
were passengers on the lll-staned vessel.
Joseph L. Myers and James L. Leary de
clared I hey had "neon approat lied ny a
lawyer, now under Indictment for alleged
violation "f the neutrality laws, and told
Hint If they would bring suits against tho
Cunaiil Hue for JjO.ooo ho would te0 that
they received the money whether or not
thus won their cases.
So Important is outi-onm ,,f contro
versy with Germany ner papers scied
III office of Wolf von lnol. ctiplldentlal
secretary of Captain Franz von Papon,
recalled German military attache, that
...ii
I'rcsldcni iimm "i personally piiHS
on demand of ounl von Berustoiff for
their return to Gorman embassy.
TROOPS COMING TO
FORT ETHAN ALLEN
SH FT BLAH!
FOR
USITANIA HORROR
DHAST C MEASURES
TO SUPPRESS SINN
FEIN REBELLION
Great Britain Will Deprive
fenders under Defense
Realm Act of Right to
Of-
of
Be
Tried by Civil Court.
MARTIAL LAW IN DUBLIN
Sir Rotfer Casement's Trial and
Condemnation Will Be Speedy
Although It Is Impossible to
I
SaV NOW Whether He A ill Be '
Executed.
London, April II British regulars from
I'elfast and Hrgland are now In Dublin
ntitl have reoapturtd from the revolu
tionary faction several Important centers
which the membeis cf the Sinn Fein party
and their adherents had occupied. These
include St. Stephen's Green and Liberty
ball.
An a meai-'Uio of precaution martial
law has been proclaimed In the city and
county of Dublin, and the olllcial an
nouncement Is made, that dni-stlc steps
are being takm to suppress the move
ment In Inlnnd and arrest all those re
sponsible for it.
That the government intends to deal
with tin' oft'i inlets wltli a heavy hand
Ik Imlieated by the publication tr a
proclamation In tho olllcial Gazette to
night suspending In Ireland section one
of tlie defence of the realm amendment
act of 1015, which gives to a BrltNh sub
ject charged with an offence under the.
act the right to be tried by a civil court.
Tlie proelamn'lnn i cellos that "the
piesent state of affairs In Iielnnd is such
as to constitute a special military
emergency."
A despatch from Tralee. county of
Kerry, says that a sensation has been
caused there by the arrest of a promi
nent member of the Tralee Irish volun
teers. Austin Stack. An accountant In
the general postoffbe at Dublin, Corne
lius Collins, has iiImi been taken into
custody. Moth are charged with con
spiracy in aiding the importation of
arniR from nn enemy.
Another man of unknown nationality
has been nriested. His Identity has not
been disclosed, hut he was conveyed to
Dublin under r strong escort.
The capture of the filibustering expe
dition by the navy secret service Is con
sidered a remarkably clever piece of
work. An automobile with Irish con
federates awaited Sir P.oser ' Casement
ashore. The machine and Its occupants
wete seized hy secret service men.
When Casement's party of three landed
they wnlked Into the nrms of their
enemies.
RUTLAND WINS
LICENSE FEE SUIT
Jury Deelilet City Is Cnlltlrd to i:trn
Money 1'nlil by Million Onnrri.
Rutland, April 10 The eitv of Rutland
won In the suit nrougnt against ii in
Rutland county court by tho State of
Vermont to deride whether tlie city could
legally hold (urns of money aggregating
f.'.T.'rt which the liquor licensee paid to It
last year, in addition to in regular
ft es, at tli' time when tho 11 -elises were
giantcd. Tlie verdict of the Jury in suh
Manco was that the city Is liab'e for the
?1VV) which is the amount City Treasurer
William L. Davis attempted to pay the
the State treasurer who refused to accept
it. As a tender was made there are no
costs carried wltli the Judgment. No men
tion was m ule in tile verdict of Interest.
It is generally expected that the State
will appeal the case.
The decision rendered to-day Is of State
wide lnteret as the scheme can be work
ed t lsevvhere If it can in Rutland. The
State law says all money paid Itir llrcns
fees must go to the Stato trca-ury and
bo used for educational purposis.
ABATTOIR BURNS
400 Cattle I'erlsli In Ilrlshton Stock
YnrilH Klre.
Boston, April 2t!. Tlio beef building at
the Brighton stock yards containing 4M
head of cattlo was burned Inst night at
an estimated loss of over ffin.on. Tlie po
lice have indicated that tho lire was of
Incendiary origin, and two men who wcie
scon to drive away shortly before the
alarm was given were sought.
Tlie stock y.nds are owned hy the lios
ton Albany railroad and are leased to
tlie New Kngland Dressed Iieef company.
NO HOOK AND MOUTH
DISEASE NOW IN U.
S,
lioston, April M. After notification by
federal authorities that there was no hoof
ami mouth illstia.-c In the t nltcd states
at present, the executive council to-dav
voted lo remove all icstrlctlous on entile
shipments. Such lobulations either State
local have been III force spice .Mucin-
lier, I'd I, when the itisease nii necaine
pldciillc.
1 10 STRIKE AT
HOWE SCALE WORKS
Rutland, April 'A! About 1 to Italian la
borers, largely helpers to the moulders,
struck at tho Howe Scale works to-day
after a icfusel of the president, ex-Gnv.
'.Mi ad vesterdav In gni'it their de ilenianii
(or "'i per cen' hie-i'.ise In pa", rhor'er
iMUitiliR hours and loeogiiltion of 'ho
union. Anticipating Iruuhlo Dr. Mend
appealed to the shctlff department, for
lUMtcclon and four deputies were on the
ground throughout tlie day but there wan
no disorder. Tho striko crippled tho foun
dry somewhat.
B4, PPENINGS IN VT.;
tVS BY COUNTIES
MIDDLEBURY.
Androvv Tulley, a life-long resident of
Corr. .all, who a few days ago itratihed
his hand, blood poisoning di veloplng.
died Krlday evening at the ago of il"
years. He Is Kurvhed by live slaters, .Mis
Dougherty of Grntnllle, N. Y., Mrs. John
Ilalnon of Middiebury, Miss llll.abi th
Tulley of Cornwall and the Mlsse.s Mar
garet and Mary Tiillev of Weyhrldge,
and six brothers, I-Mwaiil Tulley of
Hhorcham, John Tulley of Middle, Gran
ville, N, V., Charles and George Tulley
f Cornwall, Jamet Tulley of Weyliridge,
end William Tulley, who lives In tie'
vVest. The funeial was held at Si.
Mary's Catholic Church Monday ai
nine. o'clock. The funeial
Miiniarelll of Held'tis, who
of r.o' o
was taken
early lain week to the Proctor hos- .
pital at Proctor, where he died a lew hie company, who several months ago lin.i
hours alter ills arrival, was held at -St. I tho thumb on his right hand badly smnuh
Mary's Catholic Church Saturday motii-cd and Inter amputated, Is having sotm)
llie nl nine r'elnek. Father Leonard of- I t rouble wltli Iho bnn.l nt,,1 ,.n Tiii.w,lni'
Metated and Initial wa.. In the CiithoM j ' Went to the Proctor hospital at
i emetery. Theie was a good attendance j Proctor. The litli annual meetlna
'if his native fi lends. John il Thom.-n.or the Women's Fotei-n Mission-
and Willis N. Cady have hi en appointed
by the probate coutt trustees of the trust
estate, created by tile wMl of the late
JoM'ph Hattell to serve with Thomas K.
lioyce, who was named trustee in the
will. Mr. and Mrs. Charles M. Swift ai"3
now stopping at the New Wlllard, Wash
ington, 1). C Mrs. John II. Stewnit and
Mrs. K. P. Ctishman are In Washington,
D. C, attending the D. A. P.. congress.
The last regular meeting of the Cen
tury cluli for this se.u-oii will be held
with Mts. Frank Dyer Thursday evening.
Michael Halpln, who has been 111 for
threa weeks with h-att trouble and com
plications, l. able to be about his home
again, but not to re-nme bis atti nt.on
to outside business. Daniel Adams, sev
eral years ago a well-known compositor
in Middiebury. who has lately hern In
Salem, N. Y., returned to town Sat unlay
and will locate hero. Gt urge Minor, for
merly of Vergcnneg and at one time liv
ing in Middiebury, who has latilv been
In the employ of the Vermont Marble
eompany at Rutland, is in town for a
few days. John Stokes and Miss Cecilia
Stokes and George F.urrhard and Mrs.
Majy Swinnlngton of Shoteham were
guests of friends In town Saturday. M r.
ami Mrs. Halsey M. lilake and Mrs
Uiake's sister, Miss Sarah
New Haven, Conn., are in
Grlg:,on, of I
own MUs !
Klizabeth Turner, who lias been ill for from I'ittsfortl, whore she has oecn lsu
several weeks, Is greatly improved. R. '"g her sister, Mrs. Manlcv Winch. Her
A. Phelps, class of lOhl, Middlebuiy 0il-! mother, Mrs. Margaret Gllmore. rcmum
lege, has accepted a position in the civil In P'.ttsfor.l for the present. -Robert T
engineering department of tlie Rutland : , Morse, and Joseph Plcor have returned
railroad. Ho will be stationed at Ogdens-, "-om ituuano. v.nere xney inoo nwm
burg, N. Y.-G. H. MacCnln has gone to j spending a few days.-MIss Laura A.
TiconderoR.i, N. V., to visit relatives and Goodrich, who has been ill for several
friends for a few .l.iys.MiH. J. K. j months, has of lato been gradually grow
St. Pierre ft im Pherbroik, Que., and i lug weaker and her condition is now oon-
M.-.. Charles llouvier
n ml daughter.
Christine, from Kecne, N. II., are visit
ing in tills vicinity. The oillcc. of the
treasurer of Middiebury College has been
transferred from the bank building to
the Hattell block in the front rooms
directly over the postoillce. The first
wiok in May w ill be observed bore as 1
"clean-up week" and teams will be sent
out to take up rubbish. Mrs. Margaret
Gilmore. and daughter. Miss Bertha Gil-1
more, have gone to Pittsford, where they
will spend a few days. William M- j
Wright returned to town Satuttlay from
Manchester, wliere he had been laid up
for the past four weeks with blood
luisonlng in his right hand and arm
which is now almost cured. John A.
Kendall and Frank Bruce of Aliany,
N. Y., aro In town for a week's May.
r.UL-enn Smith of Rutland is in ti.'. n to
visit his imrciits, Mr. and Mrs. A. B.
Smith. Miss K'.ien I'. Wiley of Ticon
deroRa, N. Y'., is In town for a tew tlas
at the homo of Mr. ami rs. 13. J.
Wiley. Mrs. Alfred L. Higley and Miss
Edna Higley, who have been heio the
past week packing and slUpplng tho
household goods of tho late Miss F.mma
L. Higley, have returned to thtir homo
In Cartlotnn.
.Michael Donnelly, who died In Prcctor
rVuurdc.y morning, was a native of M d-
Pllcbury and spent the first half of hit
life of it", years In this town. He was tnoj
son of Mr. and Mr-. Peter Donn,l'. .null
one of a large family. It will lie ie
inembered that during n July t celebra
tion hero in 1S7 when assisting in firing
thn sunrise snluto, Mr, Donnelly was
blown from the mouth of the cannon by
a premature explosion and was seriously
Injured, losing several lingers of nir
hand and being rendered nearly blind.
Tho (uneral was held In Proctor Monday
and among the relatives who attended
were his ststet, Mrs. F.llen Collins, and a
brother, Peter Donnelly, of Middiebury.
The Miilillehury Grange will hold a young
peoplo's night Krlday of this week anil
the young folks will have charge of the
meeting. Mr. ami Mrs. Walter Parrow
of Rutland are In town to visit at tho
homo of Mts. Thomas MeCreay.-Mss
Delia Seeley has returned to Rutland
after a few days' visit at the Inure of
lier paienH, Mr. and Mrs. C. J. Seeley.
Charles Smith of Springfield and nugcue
Smith of Rutland are In town on a visit
to their parents. Mr. and Mrc. A. B.
Smith, of Washington Mnot. Monday,
tnaikct day, eggs brought 2.' cents and
butter 21 to X' i cuts. The coll
ditioii "f William Jin-Usem. who
wis thought to be Improving during th
pas-t few das, has taken another turn
for the wtuse and lie l now suffering
from an attack of pneumonia In addition
to troubles wltli which ho was at first
afflicted -Mii-s l.ula Woods has returned
tu Fair Haven aflcr a week at tlie home
of her I I'euts. Mr. nnd Mrs. Frank P.
Woods. -M'ss KlluboUi Revnolds and
Mi-s Ire i L. Adams have returned from
Rutland, wlieie they have been for a few
days to spend the l.aster lime at tlie
home of their parents. -Mark Casey, for
merly of Rutl ind. lias a 'cepteil tlie pus!-1
tloii as superintendent of the plant of,
the M'ddlcburv Mai bio company, made!
vacant a week a'-io by the 1 1 signal Ion
of M. .1. .Mulcahey. Gllheit Duniu-t
has relumed from Rutland. wher
lie luu been to visit his daughter, Mrs.
Frank Loomls.- Mr. and Mrs. Joseph
Forest li.ne returned from Pioctor. wheie
they have i-i" nt a few d.is at the home
.if tbtlr d iui.' liter. Mrs. Walter Small
t til" i lii'-e of tlie evening sM'Vl-ct at
the Memorial Raplitt Church Sunday
evening six weio baptized and became
members of tho church. Tills makes
eleven who have become members since
tho beginning of the year.
Announcements have been received of
the marrlape of Marlon r. Ilen'lersoti.
dtiugliter of .Mrs. Hattlo Henderson, for-
mer
residents of this village, to Itobert
L. Webb of St. Albans,
was performed at the
The ceremony
ConRtegatlonU
Church In Albany, N. Y Saturday, April
-".', and was performed by tho Uev. C S,
Hagar, pastor of that church. Mr. and
Mrs. Webb after a. short honeymoon will
make their homo In St. Albans L, O.
Allen Is building a new garage at Ida
homo on Washington stteet.- Mrs. I,. A.
Skiff and mother have returned from
Now York city where they have, spent
the winter and have opened their hoinn
on Kim stteet for tho Hummer Lake
Dumnoie Lodge, No. 11, I. O. O. 1'., Addi
son Kncampmcnt, No. '."7, I. (J. O. K., and
Anownnna ltobekah Lodge No. 15, 1.
O. i). K. i elrl rated the Mt), anniver
sary of the founding of the organization
In their rooms In 1 It- Dyer block last evo.
nine. Henry Gerow. an ctntilove of ihe
Middiebury branch of the Vermon' M:ir
ary society of the Huilington and
Troy District association will lie held Jn
the Methodist Kplscopal Church In this
village Friday. The meeting will he
opened at 1 :1S p. m. Delegates desiring
entertainment will notify Mrs. J. A .Mor
gan, South street. The Rev. Thom
as Slinms of Gorham, Me., a for ner
pastor of the Congregational r'hnroji
of this village, will prtacli at th"
church Sunday, April f.0 and May 7, at
both morning and evening servircs - Tha
Missionary society of tlie Congregational
Church will hold an all day's sewing
meeting In the vestrv of the church to
day. A covered dish dinner will be served
at noon. Alvln Peck of Kan Middiebury.
whoso mother died a few months ago, was
taken Tuesday morning to the Kurn Hat
tin Home at Westminster, where he will
make It his home. The Ladies' Aid so
ciety of tlie MrthodKt Church held a
well attended meeting at tlie homo of
Mrs. II. M. Seelev Tuesdav afternoon.
Mr. and Mrs. IMward Keith have return
ed to Pl-.tsford nftcr spending a few days
here wltli Mrs. Keith's sister. Miss Min
nie McDonald. Clifford Shackett, who
was called here on account of the illness
of his mother, Mrs. Frank Shackett, has
teturued to West Rutland. John Wed-
ner "l lirandon is spentiing a lew tin' s in
town. Miss Reitha nilmore has returned
I sidcred critical. Mrs. 1 nomas v.. iiirn-
gall, called here on account oi mi- uu,im
of her uncle, Andrew Tulley, ha-s returned
to Pittsford. 'Mrs. II. W. Jones has frono
to Rutland, whero sho is visiting at tho
home of Mr. and Mrs. Ashor Burtlett
K. C. Ryder is confined on ?oymo-ur
street by illness.-'Mlss Atldio Terrell of
PlnMrburgh, N. V., is in town to visit
at the home of Miss Katherino Medio.
Kraal: Medio lias returned to his th ties
in Proctor after a few days at the homo
of his mother, Mrs. George McCue -Mrs.
rranl: C. Gulley has returned from Bur
lington, whero she went to visit her niece,
Mrs. 131 nest Carpenter, who is at the
Mary Fletcher hospital.
willlam M. Jackson died at about noon
Wednesday after a four weeks' illncsi
b-ginnlnR with conjestlon of the lungs,
then developing Into a phase of heart
disease, upon which within tho past few
days pneumonia supervened. Mr. Jack
son had been a resident of Middiebury
for about 50 years and was a well known
and prominent man. He was born in
Montville. M.ch., ,',0 years ago and in
early life was a compositor in dlfferont
parts of the West In his later years hn
has been an artistic photographer and his
work was widely known throughout and
beyond this Stato. He had occupied var
ious po-ltint.s of iimortanco and tnatt
In town, among which were village,
trustee, trustee of tho Methodist Church
and overseer of the poor, which lattsr
position he had held for tho last 13 yea -F.
His circle of acquaintances was very
wide. Mr. Jackson marrii-d Miss Ella
Dutton of Northfield, who survives him
and who lias been closely allied with him
In his photographic work. There is otia
son, Dane D. Jackson of SprlngfleM,
Mass., who was hero for a few days lajt
week, hut returned to Springfield lllev
lug his father was recovering. He Is also
flirvlveil by a brother, Kdward Jackson
of Herkimer, N. Y., and a sister, Mr
Albert Bentley, of West Wintleld. N. Y.
Mrs Mary Comstock, wife of Orvls 3.
Cotnstock, died at her homo on South
Main street at about one o'clock Wedneai
day afternoon after a long illness, tha
chief cause of which wivs a general
hi caking down due to old age. she being
S3 years old. In her younger days Mrs.
Comstock was a well known Mlddloburr'
lady and was a life-long member of thn
Methodist Church. Besides her hushanj.
sl'.e Is survived by two children, Oinoy
A. ComntocU of Middiebury 111,(1 ,r
Walter Walte of C'le eland. Ohio, and
tlmre aru also fivo grandchildren, thr
gieat-grantlchlltlreii, and one niece, MiM
May Ro.ss. of this vlllaee -Tlie Rev, Roy
i-3. Wlilttlinore will hold a prayer and
tonfilcnce meeting In tho parlors of tlm
Baptist Church tills evening at 7:S0. Thn
subject will lie "Taking the Kastef
Blessing With Fs Through the Year," to
which all aro cordially Invited. It Is ex
pected that unite a number of tho mem
bers of Addison Kncampmcnt, No, 37,
I. O. O. F.. will go to Rutland Friday
noon to attend in the afternoon and eve
ning the working of -everal degrees Iry
tlie Golden Rule Lodge of Bellows FWIs.
Miss Ruth Gieeley has gone to Bur
lington to spend several days. --Miss Amy
MeNall has gone to Northfield to spend
the remainder of the week with rela
tives. Henry Gerow lias returned from
tlm Proctor hospital, Proctor, where hi
went a few days ago and whero they re
moved another piece of his right thumb)
which was smashed several months agij
at I be Middiebury branch of the Vermont
Marble compup. He was taken to that
Institution at the time and a good portion
in' the thumb was amputated, hut It ha I
never le.illy healetl.-The Ladles' Mis'
slonury society of the Memorial Baptist
Church held n well attended meeting at
(Continued ou I'mce Iwo.Jj
