r 1 , m ma sera . i
ENG
i j l j i j i . i if i i i it i r i
r OkoMna Mess
ER.
Itemocratic in Principle, Hut Independent in Thought and Action Devoted to Honesty, Truth and Good Government.
VOL. 44.
OKOLONA. MISSISSIPPI. THURSDAY, APRIL 27. 1916
No. 18
Dates of the Big
Redpath Chautauqu
a Here are May 10-15
D
FRANK KRYL AN
HERE CHAUT
H
AUG
IS BAND COMING
U A WEEK
' ' ' Vj'f Mi'l'mJ'ff! !!t!i
JfUAKK KHYL and his band will
jrive two concerts on Bund'I'ay
Chautauqua week, one in tlie after
noon ami one in the evening. Mr.
Kryl, besides being director 'of , this
and, is also soloist on the Krwu-h
the Musical Conservatory of Prague.
He has been in this country some
twenty-five years, during 'which time
he has played in all the leading cities
of America.
For some time Mi. Kryl was with j
he played at the Chicago World's Fair
and at every great exposition since, in
cluding the recent one in San Fran
cisco. He has played the French horn
in the Chicago Symphony Orchestra.
of whi'di Frederick Stock Is director,
Yiorn. He was educated iu music in ! the. well known Iiilcs Hand. - Later-! for years; also with Iir. Kuuwald of
tlie well known Cincinnati Orchestra'
Frank Kryl is a brother of Hohurnir
Kryl, the widely known band leader
and cornetist and, like him, has made
music his life work. When a mere
boy he made his first violin from a
clar box.
In the Chautauqua program of thisj President Palina of Cuba. Mr. Kryl
season Mr. Kryl plans to have some: will also play solos upon the French
of the finest chimes ever carried by a horn, accompanied by the band,
band. There will also probably be a j Among other soloists in this band
French horn quartet. Mr. Kryl was this eason will be .Tames Hurt, known
once himself a member of a French j as one of the best xylophone players
horn quartet which played before i in this country.
Monday Afternoon and Evening---Two Grand Conerts.
PHYSICAL ADVISER OF PRESIDENT TAFT TO LECTURE AT OUR
CHAUTAUQUA ON "HOW TO LIVE 100 YEARS
99
- photos of Dr. Birkn by Will R. Murphy, Newton, Kan. ' . ,
Important Health Exercises Will Be Demonstrated by Dr. Barker During His Afternoon Lecture Exercises Which Any One Can Practice at Home
f,-pVERY one Is. of course, interested
f ,, tn. learning how to live 100 years.
f Tfcc fact that a lecture on this subject
L. tty so prominent an authority as Dr.
Charles E. Barker, Who was physical
adviser to President Taft during his
! administration, is to be given Chau
Uuqua week ia at once of great im
portance. - ' 1 i . .
1
At the morning: session on the third
day Dr. Barker will give hjs. lecture
entitled "Health and Happiness," and
in the afternoon his subject will be, as
stated above, "How to Live 100 Years."
At this afternoon lecture Dr. Barker
will giTe demonstrations of physical
exercises which every one can prac
tice at home. He will also outline a
plan of diet which should be followed
by business men. in offices and others
who are not performing hard manual
labor, .
It was Dr. Barker who, by his sys
tem of physical exercises and plan of
diet, reduced President Taft'a weight
some eighty-live pounds. The exercises
which Dr. Barker will demonstrate,
however, are not necessarily to reduce
flesh, but are Just as essential to the
man or woman of average weight
.Aside from President Taft, many oth
er prominent men In national life have
followed Dr. Barker's plan for health.
He stands in the forefront of teachers,
orators and exemplars of the gospel of
health and happiness. He has lectured
widely nnder the auspices of the phys
ical training department of the nation
al committee of the Y. M. C A, and
hU work has been widely commented
upon both in the editorial and news
columns of our largest city newspa
pers. One of the Springfield (Mass.)
papers during his recent week's lecture
engagements In that, city published
daily articles on health from Dr. Bar
ker's pen. '.
Dr., Barker win be glad to answer all '
questions along the linen In which he
ia specializing. It U safe to prophesy
that -health day at the Chautauqua
will leave excellent results tn every
ouc of the l'y) cities in which Dr. Bar
ker is to appear.
Saturday Afternoon, Lecture: "Health and Happiness." Saturday Evening, Lecture and Physical Demonstration;
r
How to Live One Hundred Years!,
