MISER m CRISIS PAST!
The Seattle Star
t THE ONLY PAPER IN SEATTLE THAT DARES TO PRINT THE NEWS :
VOLUME 19
U.S. and Germany, Which Faced BreaK, Nearly4ooo Miles Apart
Thla map show* the relative poaition of the United IUIM and Germany an tha world'* aurface. Our drawing ehowa how the North Atlantic equadron would ba thrown out to protect our ahorea; It aleo ahowa
tngllah fleet, near the Orfcney lelanda. and that of the German fleet off the German coatt. In the vicinity of Helgoland.
WHAT WOULD
'US. DO IN SPLIT
WITH GERMANY?
Military History Instructor
■ at Harvard Outlines Prob
able Developments in an
Article for The Star.
I» ifc# araat a# a AM'laraflM *f war with ti+rmmmy. what will h#
ffca military af fM ialitd ItalMf Will tbt Ma farm with
tfe* aUlaaf Will ska a* a 4 a treat laat f*rr» ta fraaraf
Or will alia atoptf 4afaa»4 bar awa aharea with hrr aary aa4 plart
thla tatatrr aa a war ha>fa. ■aaafarlartaf aaaltUM at a rtrart
braahlag rata far aaa ahra«4f
Thw aaaatlaaa. af rmara#, ara a|r*a4r aatlraljr warhr4 avt hf
a«r aallltarr la Waafcla«taa. aa4 ara (.l ilinKD Hr.Tt,
■at tbrra lai O%K ma a la Aaa*rl«»a wha raa a'ahahly tall raartlf
What will hapfta. Ha la Pr«f. Rahart Hattfwa Jobaafaa. laaebar af
talHtary hlatary la Harvard aalraraMr, aa laatrariar la th#> I alta4 *tatra
war rall»fa at Waahlactaa. aal th# trratral 11% lac taarkaa aaaart
aa Military taatlca Thr a4ltar af Th» afar baa aa«»ara4 aad prraeatf
K arawlth Praf. Jahaataa 1 * aarlaal%a fararaat aa -HOW THK « MTl'.ll
ITATK9 worm N4KK H 111 —»:4ltar.
■V PROFESSOR ROBERT MATTESON JOHNSTON
Head of Department of Military History, Harvard University
Copyright, ttts, by the Newspaper AiMorlatlnn
What will be our military situation In the event of a diplomatic
rupture with GermanyT
The first point that needs consideration Is the manner of the rup
ture.
If there Is merely a severance of diplomatic relations, or a sever
ance followed up by etsps not actually belligerent and merely In the
Mture of reprleals, an ambiguous situation will be created. /
That Is, w« shall bs in a relation to Otrmany not clearly defined.
And this, in view of the different manndr in which the foreign policy of
the two countries Is conducted, would amount to leaving the option with
Oermany.
Assuming that no belligerent acta occurred during the continuance
af the present war, we should hare no assurance hut that Oermany. on
concluding |«iace with the European power*, or anon afterward, would
4aeld* that a state of war existed between her and thla country. It Is
aven possible that an undemanding that ahe was to have a free hand
on the North American continent, excepting Canada, might form a part
af tha peace negotiations!
EQUIVALENT TO A STATE OF WAR -
Assuming this possibility, thsn, thsrs Is no safs way of W
approaching our situation as rsgards Oermany save by saying
that a rupture of diplomatic relations is equivalent to the
creation of a stats of wsr; and that our military sstimatss
must be bassd on this supposition!
The questions before us. therefore, are two—HOW CAN WE PAR
TICIPATE IN TMK WAR OFTENRIVEDY?
HOW CAN WE DEPEND OI'HHEIA'KH IN CASE OF ATTACK?
Onr participation offen«lvely could, for 12 months or more, only be
financial and economic.
That Is a question for others to deal with Hut It will be very tin
Ihfe to assume, as many do. that our financial and economic Interven
tion could be decisive Our regular army Is far too small to count In
the struggle; It might, at moat, be able to relieve the French army
slong two or three mile* of front
OUR NAVY IS OUR ONLY OFFENSIVE FORCE
Our navy Is the one offensivs fores we poiuu; which is,
Incidentally, a fact not gsnsrally understood.
The fleet is essentially a striking weapon, to bs hsid mass
sd, combined In the most effective way, and used for delivering
heavy blow*.
Unfortunately, it Is far from efficient, owing to the ex
tnmsly inexpert way in which the higher naval problema are
dealt with at Washington, and, unfortunately, war with Oer
many, at the present moment, offsrs little opportunity for ths
use of a flsst.
The Hrltlsh line of battle fleet Is capable of controlling deep water,
and does not require immediate support.
Humming up, It la clear that neither by land nor sea are we In a
position to participate offensively.
DEFENSE BECOMEB OUR ONLY REAL PROBLEM
If we can do nothing offensively. Is there nothing Oermany could
do lo attack us? Ho long «« the Hrltlsh fleet exints, NO'! IIINO.
Rut alt ho It If far from probable, the Hrltlsh fleet might be de
•troyed; or. which In not at all Impossible. Oermany may be able to
dictate term* that woull leave her free to nparab' on the'Atl■n'Jf
l»- KITHKH CASE. OI K DEKENHK HW OMErt A llhAI, I HOH
Lh.M How does It stand?
The fleet might prove a defense, altho this Is not Its func
tion; It Is lacking In organization and is not sufficiently strong,
A German fleet could always choose whsthsr or not to en
iCentmusd on pags 8)
SEATTLE. WASH . THURSDAY. APRIL 27. 1916.
Oasnrges Wm Thrum Awn^
flay Lull© Emsaiflta m En| Phmei| Deal
What Des Moines Has Cost King Comity
DURING I.afe Hamilton'# tenure of office as
county commissioner, hi« residence town, De*
Moines, ha* received the following county favor*,
paid for by the whole j>eople of King county:
• • • • •
CI Thirty -five thousand dollar* for a ferry between,
\ ashnn island and Pes Moines.
Seventy-four thousand dollar* for clearing and
grading a road from the city limit* to De* Moine*.
OAn appropriation of $222,601.22 for paving the
road WITH BRICK.
CH Total, thu* far: $331,001.22
lj|To thi*. the sum of $20,000 should be added for
ferry slipn, terminals, etc.
• • • • •
Lafe Hamilton's home at Des Moines- -4V5 acres,
with buildings—is worth $3,540, according to assessors'
figures.
NONPARTISANS
MEET TONIGHT
On th* meeting Thursday night
■t the Oood Ksts rsfcteria will de
pend whether th* plain question of
nonpartisan slate and county
election*, an well aa city elec
tion*. will be presented to the vote
of the people thla year
The meeting la called for the pur
pose of discussing a bill drafted by
Deputy Prosecutor Palmer, with
the assiatance of several other law
yera. The measure deals with no
other question except nonpartisan
ship.
All those Intereated In this morn
rnent are Invited to attend
RICH STEAL $320,000,000 A YEAR! HERE'S PROOF!
Haall M. Want). fha foremoal rroiiomlr InipvlllNtnr In interim. nfcn
won rump ■« Ibf illrrrlor of thr lmr»tlg«llnnii eondliefed h» Ihe
I nllrd «litM rnmnilMlnii i*n Indnatrlal rrlatlnn* itnilrr fhr rhnlrman
ahlp nf Krnak I*. Walvk, and Mho nriil# the fantona Maalj report. hi"
Jnaf romplflpit for fhr nfHflfßfrri nlilrh are inf mhfM nf thr
I infer aHnrlatlnn n ilfrp nail anrrplni lairltliaHna of lha
tiarklaii of tkr I allrd *tatea laroine las.
Tka nark kaa lakra Maoty and n rorpa of prnipnprr mrn and
afaflaflral raiwrla kl* l-'l 1.1. MONTH*, and tkr revelallona ha la
ahonf la makr fo fhr prop le of 4m*rlea f< KI*R TIIK l r l>\l.
WOflll oa Ihla anhjerf. ffanlr'a Irreproachable reptitallna aa a aerial
lavrallialor alanda behind Ihfm.
limlhi via prearal annthrr of hla arllrlra. «nr of a arrlea lo ha
puhllahed In fhaaa mliiniaa day kj da)•.—Kdlfor.
By BASIL M. MANLY
Noted American Economic Investigator
In yc-terday's «'trtn le I indicated tlie general character
of tlie evasions of the United States income tax, which, in
(lie aggregate, amount to more than $.<20,000,-
DOO—an amount which this nation stands in
desperate need of for her "preparedness." a hill
that cannot possibly lie paid by the working
man alone, in today's article 1 will exhibit the
evidence upon which I base the statement that
the income tax should yield $400,000,000 annu
ally, instead of the mere $x0,000,0<)0 which
the United States treasury collected under this
statute last year.
The federal Income tux Id it tax upon th" Income of
Individual* and al*o upon the net earning* of corporation*, providing
(or th i collection of a tux of one per cent upon the net earning* of
corporation* and also for what la Known a* a NOItMAb tax of one
AfANLY
one cent
LOOKS GOOD FOR
TODAY'S OPENER
As ws go galloping to prsss.
Indications ars bright for a rec
ord hrsaklng "opener."
After the hssvy shower of
ths early morning, the grounds
at ths ball park were given a
careful once-over, and it was
reported they would be In fine
ehaps by 3 o'clock this aftsr
noon.
NOTE COMES NEXT WEEK
WASHINGTON, April 27.—Ger
many'* ati*wer to the American
submarine not* will not arrive until
the end of next week, accord In* to
private advices from Berlin todav
NIGHT EDITION
The weatherman says he'i going to keep
the rain spigot shut this afternoon for Dug
dale'• take. Forecast today: "Fair tonight
and Friday; cool tonight with light frost."
TTtH *• tfie liu'tf* Story 9t
lh« biggest read building con
tract ev«r Ist In Klnf county,
told to Th« Star by Commlt
nontf M. J. Carrlgan.
E map* rat ad by th« high
handed method* of Lata Ham
ilton and Krlat Knudaan, hla
aaaoclataa. Carrlgan has dle
cloaad the deal by which ha
taya 1*2.000 of the permanent
highway fund haa been "burned
up like It wai Mexican money.™
The contract was let earl* thla
week to F. Mcf'lellan, and caile for
the surfacing with Monolithic brick
of Hth eve S from the city llmlta
to the town of IV** Molnen, a dis
tance of 9 7 ml lea. for |222.#91 12
Hccsuae Hamilton rhoae to have
a hrlck pavement Instead of con
crete, a* had been planned, there
Is no money left In the road build-
Inf fund to complete the highway
to the county line, aa originally
planned, to provide a secondary
hard atirface road to T» coins
Change Came Suddenly
So unexpectedly waa the final
transaction sprung that Carrlgan
had no time to marshal hi* force*
to defeat the laaue, he any*
Ittda for three klnda of paving
were received on Monday. The
Meridian bid wa* (222.691 22 for
Monolithic brick and t130.427.3fi
for concrete.
Letting of the contract wa* de
ferred till Tuesday.
"All the talk up to Tueeday had
been In favor of concrete," *nid
Carrlgan Thur*d»y. "Knudsen had
e*preß«ed hlmse'f In favor of It So
had Hamilton So had 1 Hrlck
pavement wh* never considered, no
far aa I knew The brick bid wa*
asked merely to find out what the
contractor* would lay It down for
No *ane comml»*loner would ever
think of putting a brick *urface on
that road "
Knudeen Votea With Him
On Ttie*day, when Carrlgan put
a motion that the low bid of Mc-
Clellan for concrete surfacing he '
per rent npon the incomes of Individual* amounting to more than $.1,000
In the cane of single persons, or In the caste of married persons of
mora than $4,000. Income derived from the dividend!" of corporal lons
npon which a tax of one per cent haa already been paid at the source
la exempt from this normal tax, but la required to pay the SUPEH
tax. In each cwe the law allowa unmarried peraons an exemption of
J3.000, and married persons an exemption of $4,000.
In addition to the normal tax, Individuals with incomes of mora
than $20,000 are required lo pay an additional tax. known as the super
tax, upon the amount* by which their Incomes exceed $20,000 The
ruper lax ratea are;
On Income over $ 20,000 and lata than $ 50,000 —1 per cant
On incoma over 50,000 and less than 75,000 —2 per cent
On Income over 75,000 and leaa than 100,000 —3 per cent
On Incoma over 100,000 and leas than 250,000 —4 per cent
On Income over 250/ XX) and leaa than 500,000 —5 per cent
On Incoma over 500.000 6 per cent
a • • • •
It la worth while noting at thla point how much difference It makes
whether n dollar of Income la aubjoct to the super tux or only to the
i.ormal rate. A dollar in an Income of over $. r ioo,ooo muat pay not only
the normal tax of 1 cent but alao a super tax of fi cents, go that every
dollar of the Income of the very rich man which Im escaping taxation
Is coaling the treaHiiry SKVKN times as much as If the fraud were
committed by a peraon of moderate income! It Is very Important to
rememner Ihla. for It will explain how the tax collections can be greatly
increased even thn only a relatively smaller amount of Income Is
evading the tax.
In order lo see what the Income tax should produce II Is necessary
lo analyze the national Income to ascertain what part of It la received
l<y persona with Incomes over $3,000 who should he subject to the tax.
i!y national Income we mean Ihe aggregate Income received during
the year by the people of the I'nited States and not the amount of the
f accepted, neither Hamilton nor
' Knudsen would aecond It
Ignoring Cairlgan'a motion. Ham
ilton moved to accept McClellan'a
brick hid. 192.25356 higher than
hi* concrete bid.
The motion waa carried, Knud
j sen seconding It and voting with
i Hamilton In favor of the hrlck.
' Carrlgan voted "no."
"Why did you decide to pave the
road with hrlck Instead of con-1
crete?" Hamilton waa asked Thura
day.
"dec*use we wanted It." he de- '
clared "It I* better than con- j
1 crete."
"Don't TOO consider concrete
wonld have done juet a* well on
that road?"
"I do not, sir!" he exclaimed. "la I
that nil you want to know*"
"The rea*on for thla Jobbery."
■aid Carrlgan. "la that Lafe Ham
t llton's home I* at IV* Moines He '
own* four and a half acre* there '
That I* al*o the reaaon why the
Vnshon Island ferry terminal was
placed at De* Moines
"There I* absolutely no reason
why the road should be paved
with brick
"Concrete would have done juat
a* well, would have saved the
county f52,000 and would have left
| ii* enough money to extend the
pavement on past Des Moines to )
the King county line to connect
with the Pierce county road to Ta-1
coma, a* originally wa* Intended. |
"The taxpayer* are hot under the j
collar over this deal, and rightly j
so," Carrlgan *nld "When 1 saw j
what the *< heme wa* and heard
Hamilton * motion to award the!
contract for brick. I called up two
or three people and told them
what wa* In the air They hurried
to the courthouse to voice their
protest, but arrived too late."
A "good time*" party will be
given Thursday evening by the
Mlnnewatha club In Douglas hall,
ltlth ave. and Kast Pine Dancing
at 9 o'clock This is tlie last of
the winter aerie*
Danger of Break Is
Averted; New Order
Given to Submarine
Commanders; Gerard
Confers With Kaiser.
By Carl W. Ackerman
United Preas Staff Correspondent
BERLIN, April 27 (Bulletin).—The
crisis between the United States and Ger
many has virtually passed.
There will be no rupture predicated on
developments to date.
The United Press is able to make this
statement on the most authentic authority.
• Pending negotiations for a more complete understanding
between the two governments, submarines will be under ex
plicit instructions. Their nature is not known.
However, they furnish assurance that there will be no
repetition of the acts complained of while negotiations are in
progress
The crisis passed Tuesday, when Foreign Minister Von
Jagow received information respecting President Wilson's
attitude.
Opinions differ as to whether chief credit belongs to Am
bassador Gerard or Ambassador Von liernstorff.
The latter played an important part because he had a
rather free hand in handling the negotiations.
Kxpectancjr has replaced tenseness while BernstorfPs
statement with regard to the president's stand is awaited.
American Ambassador (ierard is leaving tonight for the
kai-er's headquarters for a conference. Imperial Chancellor
\on BethmannHollweg i* expected back tomorrow to prepare
the (ierman reply to President Wilson's >-übmarinc note.
A momentoue conference,
with the continuance of friend
ly relatione with America hang
ing In the balance. la In prog
rese at Kalear Wilhelm's field
headquarter* today.
Th« kiiHr has received the
views of Imperial Chancellor
Von Bethmann-Motlweg, Oen.
Von Falkenhayn and Admiral
Von Holtxendorff.
• • •
Bernatorff T tying
His Utmost to Ward
Off Nations' Break
■Y ROBERT J. BENDER
United Pr*M Staff Correspondent
WASHINGTON, April 17— Am
haasador Von Hernstorff her® and
Ambassador Gerard In Merlin are
doing their utmoat today to pre
vent a rupture between the I'nited
Slate* and Germany
Ap lons ax Bwnstorff I* trying to
meet President Wlleon's views. It I*
believed unlikely that the executive
will demand any greater haste or
take any action for the present
which might embarrass him.
Comment In the German press Is
ao divided that It I* Hear that an
understanding of the Oerman posi
tion I* not to he obtained .vet.
WHAT! DALE VOTES
WITH 0. T. ERICKSON
Members of the city untitles
committee galloped over Chairman
Thomson's objections and recom
mended that the city sell water to
the district north of the city, Thurs
day.
Moore voted with Thomson
against the recommendation.
Erlckson, Male and Mans voted for
It. The North ICnders will build
their own mains.
WHY HE QUIT SCHOOL
SALEM. Or., April 27.—Max
well Ball, editor of The Col
legian, official paper of the
Willamette univeralty, is out of
achool today because lie con
fessed to hia part In putting a
cow In the chapel two weeks !
ago.
rational production, for it is obvious that a very large part of the
national Income Is received by persons who have no part in production,
either as owners, managers, or workers, but who derive thetr lncomo
from professional and personal services of all kinds.
In order to estimate the amount upon which income tax should
be paid, we will first ascertain the total amounts of the Incomes of
persons who should pay inrome tax, and then by deducting the exemp
tions of $3,000-$4,00 l) allowed in the case of Individuals, arrive at the
amount upon which the tax should be-assessed.
The national income of the United States In 1914 was approxi
mately FORTY-SIX IllLl.lON UOIXAKS, In a later artlrle I will
• how you In detail how thl<t figure Is arrived at. and why there can
lie no question that it is WKl.l. WITHIN TIIK FACTS.
The income* of persona who should pay an income tax are derived
trom one of three sources: (I) Salaries over $;!.000; (2) Fee* for pro
fessional services amounting to more than $3,000: (3) Income derived
from the ownership of property or the conduct of business amounting
tc more than $3,000 per year Altho In the text I am stating the ex
emption at $3,000, in the calculations due allowance has been made for
the fact thai the exemption for married men Is $4,000.
The total amount of wage* and salaries paid In the United
States in 1914 we know with reasonable exactness to have
been in round figures $15,000,000,000. Of this total at least
$500,000,000 was paid to men who received salaries over $3,000.
The total number of persons whose Incomes are derived primarily
from fees is shown by the census of occupations to be approximately
51H1.000.
While there are no exact data upon which to base an estimate of
their total incomes, the available information indicates very certainly
that their Incomes average at least $1,800 and amount in the aggregate
ft- more than $900,000,000.
Of this we may safely estimate that $300,000,000 is received by
(Continued on page 3)
AMENDMENT
AGREED ON TO
QUIET JAPAN
WASHINGTON, April 27.—
Japan's demands with regard
to exclusion of laborers from
tho United States are reported
to have been completely mot
In an amendment to tho
nett immigration bill, which a
majority of the aenate Immigra
tion committee agreed to today.
Only an informal meeting of
democratic members was hold.
It is expected the full com
mif.ee wilt meet next week and
confirm today's action.
Japan would be seriously of
fended at any enactment do
signed to keep Japanese from
entering the United States, the
committee waa told.
The mikado feels that the
passage of a law regulating
entrance of laborer* while the
"gentlemen's agreement" was
In force would be a reflection
on Japan's honor.
Interesting debate will follow tha
ap|>earance of the bill from com
mittee. It was declared.
Many senators, especially from
the Pacific coast states, intend to
be heard upon the provision of tha
bill to which Viscount Chlnda, Jap
anese ambassador, objected In hta
recent audience with the president.
Lately Japan has been much In
the minds of the administration
officials.
Japan is pushing the extension
of Its control over China to a de
gree that bids fair to menace the
preservation of the open door, tha
American principle established hjr
John May.
Japan is tightening Its hold on
the Pacific Islands seized from Oer
tnany. which form a perfect
screen between the I'nited States
and the Philippines
The department of Justice is said
to have evidence that Japanese aa
well as German agents have been
stirring up trouble for the I'nited
States In Mexico, supposedly to
divert American attention from
overseas affairs to the American
back yard.
