— T£H]E
NORTHWEST WORKER
OFFICIAL ORGAN OF THE SOCIALIST PARTY Ol SNOHOMISII AND STEVENS COUNTIEH
5c iht ropy ; $1.00 per year.
SECURITY LEAGUE
DODGES SOCIALISM
lh'ilinos Debate With Kirkpat
rick for Fear of Fvralahtiig
Kun for Audionco
BUTTS, William Cutts, secretary
of the National Security league, has
refused to accept the challenge of
George K. Kirkpatrick, candidate of
the Socialist party for vice president
of the United States, to debate the
subject of preparedness.
In a letter addressed to Albert V.
Meissner, secretary of the Montana
Socialist party, Cutta declares that the
National Security league is not com
mitted to any military program, "in
volving either the regular army or thi
state militia in strike dlttUrbailCU or
any other purpose, other than national
defense."
For his own part, I'utis believes the
militia should be augmented, rcorgN
ized as a defense reserve, restrained
from participation in inteivine or do
mestic troubles ami made a part of
the federal army. If this constitutes
a crime against the welfare of your
comrades in arms I must plead guilty
along with millions of other thinking
citizens of this country.
"While we are not afraid of our po
sition and have no fear as to the out
come of the military and naval meas
ures now being urged upon our con
gressmen, we must decline to furnish
the entertainment for your little fam
ily gathering at the Auditorium next
week."
The Socialists have offered to give
the National Security league time till
next year for the preparation of the
debate, hoping that in the meantime
the league will be "prepared" to meet
a Socialist debater.
WAR BREAKING
UP HOMES OF GREAT
BRITAIN'S WORKINGMEN
LONDON.—More moving is being
done in England today than ever be
fore in the country's history. The
movers are the families of married
men who expect to leave shortly for
one of tht wai fronts. This is the end
of the "quarter," and as few middle
class Englishmen can keep up their
home in their absence, they are break
ing them up.
Furniture movers are hopelessely
swamped. Not only has the unprece
dented amount of business over
whelmed them, but, like everybody
else, they have already given most of
their able-bodied men to the colors.
The elderly, extremely youthful or
weakly laborers they are compelled to
rely on are unable to handle the work
expeditiously.
In London the big boarding house
centers like Bloomsbury and South
Kensington are gathering in enormous
numbers of refugees.
Poverty and capitalism are insepar
able. Abolish capitalism and poverty
will disappear.
THE SOCIALIST PHILOSOPHY
By C. Stephenson
The Socialist Philosophy is monistic
in its nature, because it recognizer the
unity, the oneness, of society. Despite
the differences existing between the
social units it realizes their intercon
nection and interdependence upon
each other in all their activities as
well as the social nature of the pro
ducts of their labor. The warp and
woof of it, the basic principle, is the
social concept.
In opposition to this, bourgeois phil
osophy is individualistic.
"Freedom of the individual" was its
watchword during its struggle against
feudalism, regardless of the fact that
the individual, in himself, is nothing,
but is what he is, as a product of so
cial effort and of the society in which
he lives and moves.
Individual man, in the political
genHe, is non-existent; man is a social
being.
For any philosophy to be practical
it must be built upon actualities.
However, we know today that this
watchword "freedom," found a genu
ine response in the minds of dreamers,
and Utopian thinkers; also the unedu
cated proletariat to whom it appeared
that change could not make their con
dition worse but might better it.
Among the bourgeoisie, the mer
chant and manufacturing class, the
Utopian concept of "freedom," though
useful in the political field, was re
garded with contempt and considered
wholly ridiculous.
The "freedom" they desired was a
reflex of their material interests:
Freedom of trade unhampered by
feudal ties whether of the monarchy,
landed aristocracy, the guilds of cor
porate interests.
Freedom of trade routes and mar
kets. Freedom of science from the
WOMKN AND
ORIENTALS TO
1)0 THE WORK
Tin employers of British Columbia
Introduced Orientals into this province
moio than a quartet of a century iiko.
The mini' owners of South Africa,
after the war, did the same thing,
Some of the coal mine owners on Van
comer island recently replaced the
employes who enlisted for overseas
service with Orientals. Now read this
Paris dispatch from the daily press of
Tuesday. Owing to the lack of labor
in the agricultural and Industrial
fields, an organisation has heen af
fected in Prance for trying Chinese
labor, It is expected the 6,000 t'hi
nose laborers will arrive in that coun
try within a few months. Twenty
Chinese are now preparing themselves
as Interpreters for tin- latter arrivals,"
FINNISH SOCIALIST PARTY
THRIVES IN SIMTE OF WAR
Russian Government Report Shows
Membership of 51.520. Divided
Into 1,554 I,oiaU
KELSINGFORS.—According l<> a
statement issut'il by the Finlnnskaya
Gasota, the official organof the Rus
sian government in Helsingfors, the
Finnish Socialist Party has practically
held its own in spite of the war.
In June, I!U4, the number of party
members was the same as in June,
HUH, but at the end of the year 1914,
the party hail lost about 1,500 mem
bers anil numbered 51,520. One-fifth
of these members were women.
The membership list, made up by
locals, show that three-fourths, or
37,708 Socialists lived In rural dis
tricts, only one-fourth or 13,802 in
cities.
The biggest local is in the election
district of Nyuland and has 8,900
members; the second place is held by
Viborg with 7,070 members. Owing
to lack of employment, 1,900 members
were exempted from the payment of
party dues.
In 1914 the party had 1,554 locals.
The party worked in unison with 637
labor unions, which have 18,388 politi
cally organized members and only
4,134 non-political members. The So
cialist Party had also connections with
40 unions of small farmers, 95 young
people's organizations, 101 women's
clubs and 30 other societies.
The party locals owned 890 houses
in 1914, valued at $2,500,000. Besides,
it had about $500,000 in cash funds,
but had liabilities of about $1,000,000.
The occupations of party members
are shown by the following classifica
tion: 17,565 industrial workers, 0,358
building trades workers, 11,604 agri
cultural laborers and small farm ten
ants, 10,552 other workers, such as
forest workers, dock hands, railroad
employes, and artisans. There were
also 4,326 members without any pro
fession.
stifling hand of the Roman church,
because the knowledge gained by the
cultivation of astronomy, mechanics,
physics, and other natural sciences,
became necessary to them in the pro
duction and distribution of commodi
ties for world market.
Freedom of the serfs, because pro
ducing for a world's market, whose
demands were fluctuating, the rising
trading class desired a class of work
ers who could be discharged when not
required and who could move from
place to place according to the varying
needs of different industries.
So! the hope of the enslaved of all
the ages, the vision which inspired
their poets and seers, was turned to
the practical uses of the bourgeoisie.
And their philosopry which must
stand or fall with their form "of so
ciety perforce justifies', in the light of
their class interests, their application
of the term "freedom." But what
"freedom?" Ah! is it capitqjism?
Methinks J can hear martyrs turning
in their graves ; Sanctified and blest
is the concept that the cunning and
the powerful may lay hold of the
earth's resources and the means of
production, and compel the rest of hu
man kind to yield up the fruits of
their labor.
"Buy cheap and sell dear" is the
bourgeois battle cry and it measures
success in life by the difference in the
quantity contributed to the social
treasury, and that which the grasping
hand can abstract from it.
Its basic and active principle is,
"the race to the swift and the battle
to the strong."
Have you done any trading with our
new advertisers yet?
How many sub cards do you want?
EVERETT, WASHINGTON, THURSDAY, APRIL 27, L 916.
FRENCH SOCIALISTS VOTE
TO SUPPORT GOVERNMENT
PARIS—A resolution in favor of the
continuance of the Strongest support
of the government in national defense
was passed at a meeting of the Na
tional Council of the French Socialist
party.
The renewal of relations with the
International Socialist liureau was
voted down by 1,700 to 1,000.
SOCIALIST WOMAN IS
IN RACK FOR CONGRESS
PHILADELPHIA, Pa.—The first
woman in this state to file nomination
papers for the office of representative
to eongress-at-large is a doctor and a
Socialist. She is Dr. Elisabeth M.
Baer.
"I think it is proper for women to
aspire to public office. 1 have always
been a suffragist and a Socialist," she
said. "I consider Socialism as a ques
tion of larger import than votes for
women."
TOOT AMU
The "Nonpartisans" have about ex
hausted the possibilities of waving the
flag and proclaiming themselves In be
the only genuine Americana in Mil
waukee. It gets them no votes, and
it's votes that they are after.
If Milwaukee is to be saved from
the curse and blight of municipal own
ership, if the menace of Socialism
shall be averted, the "non-partisans"
will have to produce a more robust
breed of patriots. Milwaukee Leader,
NOW HE GOOD
Predicting that at the end of the
war, the United States will undergo
an industrial setback, James J, Hill
urges workingmen to be content with
the wages they have been getting- and
to cease embarassin^ capitalists .by
demanding more.
1 International Labor Day 1
: 1 Celebration Will Be Held in Ijj;
11 THE FORUM, April 30, at Bp. m. |
jl Recitations, Songs, Music, Refreshments >::
ji Speech on INTERNATIONALISM by Carl Ulonska jj!
: I Come and have a good time ADMISSION FREE ||
::; :::
+++++++-M-+4-+++++++++++++++-J. +++++++ <.++* +++++++++++++++ ++++++++++++++++++++++++++ . ,
"THE WIDOW'S MITK"
Shadows of Dawn
( !W Huclhom Maxim)
A whir of dust is sweeping the hill,
Between the gray dawn and the huge black mill.
There's a drift of rags and of skinny hones,
With skeleton feel on the ruthless stones.
What specters are these in the witching light
This ghostly rear-guard of the night,
Wearily treading the trail of the dark,
Arousing the morn before the lark?
What wights are they, so gaunt and lean,
With lagging pace and drowsy mien,
Who under the dim lamp's flickering glow
Wind into the cavernous? mill below?
A sortie of ghouls aloose from the tomb,
Or a rabble of wraiths begot of the gloom?
No—goblins and ghouls such task would shirk
It is only the children going to work!
MORE SOCIALISM (?)
The Senate has adopted an amend
ment to the army appropriations bill
after a big scrap (in which it was op
posed because of its "Socialistic" na
ture) that authorizes the President in
his discretion to designate a water
power site upon any navigable stream
to be used for the exclusive use of the
government, and the site thus with
drawn may be used by the Secretary
of War for the "generation of electri
cal or other power and for the produc
tion of nitrate or other products need
ed for munitions of war and useful in
the manufacture of fertilizer and other
useful products."
ROOSEVELT NON-PAKTISAN
LEAGUE ASKS FOR MEN
The Roosevelt Non-Partisan League,
"A Union of Patriotic Citizens of All
Parties," opened New York offices to
send out invitations to the citizens of
this community to lay aside their poli
tical affiliations for the purpose of
wafting Oyster Bay's most disting
uished resident into the White House
on a wave of popular enthusiasm for
"Americanism."
PooKLY PAID PAY-TRIOT
Lady Colebrook and a number of
female parasites tried to set an exam
ple to the women of England by sign
ing up for six months' service in a
munition factory. They were put to
work finishing gun parts and shells
and worked eight hours a day for
which they were paid a wage of about
50 cents per day. Most of them quit
before the six months was up, whether
because of the low pay or the hard
Kraft is hard to say, but it is our opin
ion that "work" was the chief cause.
The worker toils and endures a liv
ing death in order that a privileged
class may live in luxury.
OWNED AND CONTROLLED HY THE SOCIALIST PARTY OP SNOHOMISH COUNTY
By Courtesy of "Life"
JAIL TERMS GIVEN MEN
WHO AIDED CLYDE STRIKE
EDINBURGH.—Three men were
sentenced to prison for their connec
tion with the recent strike of munition
workers on the Clyde. On a charge
of publishing "seditious" articles, Wil
liam Gallagher, chairman of the Clyde
Workers' committee, and John W.
Mair, editor of the Worker, the maga
zine of the committee, each received
one year in prison. Walter Bell, busi
ness manager of the magazine, was
sentenced to three months in prison.
A sentence of three years' penal
servitude was imposed yesterday on
John Maclean, a former teacher, who
was convicted of similar offenses.
TO CONGRESS
Eugene V. Debs is going to be elect
ed to Congress next fall. The biggest
meetings in the history of Indiana are
being held and much enthusiasm pre
vails.
LECTURES HELD
DURING NEXT WEEK
L. E. Katterfeld.
Sunday, April 80 (8 p.m.)—-Monroe.
Monday, May I—Spokane.l—Spokane.
Tuesday, May 2—Deer Park.
Wednesday, May 3—Denison.
Thursday, May 4—Valley.
Friday! May s—Addy.
Saturday, April (!—Chewelah.
Sunday, May 7 (2 p. m.) —Colville.
Sunday, May 7 (8 p. m.) —Orin.
Milwaukee is again being ruled by
a Socialist mayor. Comrade Hoan
took office Tuesday, April 18. One of
the big things that the administration
will take hold of is the construction
of a city owned electric light plant.
The harbor is to be greatly improved
and the street car company will be
forced to come to time.
NEWS IN BRIEF
The 11. S. Senate has been forced
into having the Industrial Relations
Commission report printed. 100,000
copies of the report and 10,000 of the
testimony was ordered printed. Send
in for your copies right away. Ad
dress the senators at Washington.
JEFF DAVIS, King of the Hoboes,
is now a wealthy man, it is said. Sev
eral months ago one of his millionair
friends on Wall Street whispered the
name of a certain war stock to him.
Jeff took the hint. He plugged with
the savings of years and as a result
he has (55,000 to his credit.
BUENOS AIRKS, Argentina:-
Complete returns from the election
of April 2 for half the total member
whip of the Chamber of Deputies show
a victory for the Radicals. Twenty
seven Radicals have been elected, sev
enteen Conservatives, ten Democrats,
four Radical-Dissidents and three So
cialists.
WASHINGTON.—An army reor
ganization bill that would produce
regular army and reserve military
forces in the United States aggregat
ing 1,000,000 men, passed by the sen
ate without a record vote.
Local Monroe will hold a basket
social Saturday, May 18. The net re
ceipts will go to the County office to
start the county campaign. The local
also starts new motion for county au
tonomy. See that your local seconds
the motion.
The United States Steel corporation
drew total earnings of $726,683,589
last year, '$168,268,656 more than the
previous year. This was a gain of 30
per cent. Of these millions, labor, in
cluding all the high-priced salaried
■employes, received $176,800,864. La
bor's gain over the previous year was
only 1.35 per cent, although labor pro
duced a 30 per cent increase in earn
ings.
Nearly all small leaseholders in
France have ceased to pay rent. So
many people have been unable to pay
rent that the government has been
forced to exempt all families whose
income is less than 600 francs a year
from paying rent or arrears of rent,
during the war or for a period of six
months after the war. What the peo
ple and the government will do when
the six months is up remains to be
seen, but when thousands of people
have been living rent free for a year
or two, we can feel assured that there
will be "Something doing" when the
rent moratorium is lifted.
Millions of the workers' children are
born into the world destined to a life
)f misery in slums and factories. Oth
er children are millionaires at birth.
THE HEATHEN'S PRAYER
BY THE RIP-SAW POET
O Mumbo Jumbo, god of stone, we kneel in terror at thy throne!
Save, O save us, if you can, from the clutches of the Christian man!
Save us from kaiser, king and czar—and, worse than all, from fierce
T. R.! We sit in darkness, so they say—O Mumbo, keep us there, we
pray! The only thing we heathen fear is that the Christians may
come here! Hold back these creatures from our shores, and save us
from their bloody wars! They'd confiscate our native soil, and doom
us all to lives of to.il; the more they made us slave and sweat, the more
they'd have us in their debt; and every blooming cocoanut tree would
soon belong to some John D.—and if we ever should rebell, he'd have us
heathen shot to h ! Good Mumbo Jumbo, god of stone, make the
Christians leave us alone! Amen.
Subscribe for THE CRUCIBLE, 1330 First Avenue, Seattle, Wash.
Send Five Cents for Sample Copy. Red Hot Agnostic Paper.
ENGLAND IS BRANDED AUTOCRATIC
Intolerable oppressive measures
aimed to repress free speach and cur
tail individual freedom generally are
being put into effect by the English
Government, according to a letter
which Prof. Scott Nearing recently re
ceived from London. The name of
the writer is withheld as he is in the
government employ. The letter in
part follows:
"As you will have gathered, things
are at their worst here. The civil lib
erty that we are supposed to be fight
ing for is absolutely lost, and there is
no doubt that autocratic Germany
con 111 kirn' us no worse a political sys
tem to live under. We may not strike,
we nut] not s;iy anything calculated to
prejudice recruiting for the army or
to impede the production of munitions
of war, and you can well imagine the
use which employers are making of
this last fact; we may not even leave
our jobs if we do not like them, and
many of us must become traitors to
our religion and conscience in taking
up arms.
Workers Being Aroused
"The suppression of newspapers
which dare to give correct accounts of
OLD PARTIES
WILL AGAIN DODGE
REAL ISSUES
WASHINGTON.—With Roosevelt
practically settled on as the candidate
of Big Business, with Wilson already
as good as nominated for the small
business man, and with Allan L. Ben
son running in behalf of the working
people of the United States, politicians
here are settling down to one of the
hardest presidential campaigns in
years. The "issue" may be prepared-
ness—if Roosevelt has his way—or it
may be "my administration"—if Wil
son has his—but the powers that be
will not let the real issue be discussed
—poverty, wages, cost of living, con
trol of government by the people.
The candidate of the working people
will have to fight for every vote he \
gets. According to old time political
dopesters here, money is going to flow
like water into the campaign chests of
the old parties. Just who will con
tribute to whose campaign is not yet
decided, and from now till the conven
tions in June the secret agents of the
Republican, Democratic and moribund
Progressive outfits are hovering
around in the offings of the bankers,
financiers and corporation presidents
playing for position.
Every indication points to oodles of
cash for the Roosevelt war chest.
Roosevelt as the champion of prepar
edness will have the enthusiastic sup
port of the munitions millionaires
who, with the close of the European
war, must turn to the United States
for a steady market for their products.
Roosevelt will also have the endorse
ment of many of the great New York
financial houses who have been anger
ed by the stupidity of the Wilson ad
ministration, by its failure to inter
vene wholeheartedly in Mexico, by its
habit of writing diplomatic notes, and
by its distinctly reactionary tenden
cies. It is probable, however, that
the great capitalists will not all flock
to Roosevelt, for Wilson has connec
tions too important to be overlooked.
Every possible and plausible at
tempt will be made by the managers
of the old party campaigns to make
out that the honor if not the security
of the nation is at stake, and while
Roosevelt is said to be planning to
injcet a little social and industrial
justice into the fray, the soft pedal
will be put on the labor question. Pa
triotism, America first, defense
against European aggression, Mexican
reform—anything but the real issues,
poverty and low wages and the grow
ing power of wealth.—American So
cialist.
All laws hitherto made by landlords
and capitalists are class laws—laws
to enable a few to live upon the toil
of others.
Ministerial blunders, the prosecution
of trade union officials and members
for various ordinary trade union acti
vities, the monstrous abuse of the Mu
nitions Act and the Military Service
Act—all these occur in such profusion
that we become almost hardened to
them. The newspapers are not allow
ed by the censor to publish accounts of
strikes (of which there are a few, even
in these days), so that the public real
ly thinks the Ministry of Munitions is
fulfilling its function effectively,
whereas it has caused at least as
much industrial unrest as the employ
ers themselves.
"1 gather that trouble is anticipated
among the United States miners. Is
the United Mine Workers' Union the
main organization? I suppose the
miners are pretty strongly organized
with you. Here they are among the
best organized, and, if the new "Triple
Alliance" between the miners, the
transport workers and the railway
men uses its inherent power of labor
monopoly I do not see why a revolu
tionary expropriation of the capitalist
in these industries should not come
about after the war."
No. 277.
