"VOL. XXXV—NO. 52. (Official County Paper)
Claxton Says Schools
Must Be Improved
Bismarck, April 25.—United States
•Commissioner of Education Dr. P. P.
Claxton of Washington, D. C. was in
vthe city yesterday and appeared be
fore the state board of regents, who
••opened their regular monthly meeting
at the capitol.
Dr. Claxton informed the board that
the report of the commission making
the educational survey of the state
would be ready not later than May 20.
At the present time Dr. E. B. Craig
head and Dr. Bawden, who gathered
most of the data in the state, are com
piling their information in Washing
ton, preparatory to making the report.
"They will be joined within the next
few weeks by Prof. L. D. Coffman of
the university of Minnesota, who will
also make a report on conditions in
the state, and by Dr. Claxton.
Practically all the data has already
been gone over by Dr. Claxton, and
he is in the city at the present time
to outline general recommendations
to the board. Additional information
will be required on the state school
for the deaf at Wahpeton, and on the
Ellendale normal, before the final re
port can be submitted to the board of
regents. Dr. Claxton will visit both
institutions this week and secure the
^desired information.
Dr. Claxton has given his close per
sonal attention to the educational sur
vey being made in this state, and in
discussing conditions last night, stat-j
ed that the time has come to raise'
the educational standards of the state.
The standard of the schools and the
teachers must be improved, he stated,
•especially'in the country districts.
"The educational requirements of
country teachers are not enough to
meet the demands made upon them,"
said Dr. Claxton. "They work under
a serious handicap at best, not having
the equipment and the advantage of
expert supervision that a city teacher I
has." Few of the country teachers!
have the equivalent of a high school
-education, yet they are required to
teach all subjects, in most cases from
the first to the eighth grade. The cry
is made that country school teachers
are not paid high enough salaries.
"That may be true," he stated, "but I
for the class of teachers in the aver-!
age country school, they are paid
more than the city teachers."
"Vocational training in this day and
age," said Dr. Claxton, "is absolutely
necessary. The average normal school
not only in this state, but throughout
the country generally, are preparing
their teachers for the city schools and
not for the country schools. The for
mer really needs more education to
day than any other man, and voca
tional training must be given in the
country schools. Furthermore, he
stated, this training must be thor
ough."
The state board of regents will be
in session for practically the remain
der of the week. The heads of all
state educational institutions will ap
pear before the board during the
•week, and considerable routine busi
ness will be transacted.
Dr. Claxton will complete his tenta
tive outline of recommendations to
the board this morning, and will leave
today for Wahpeton.
Marseilles, France, April 25.—Anoth
er large contingent of Russian troops
arrived here aboard several trans
ports.
The Russians were greeted with, all
military honors and debarked amid
the wild enthusiasm of a great crowd
massed on the quay. General Minis
ter, governor of Marseilles, accompan
ied by his staff, welcomed the com
mander of the Russian forces. A regi
ment of hussars provided a military
guard of honor, while whistles of the
craft in the harbor blew noisily.
Berlin, April 25.—In a terrific effort
to take positions near Dead Man'c hill,
northeast of Verdun, the French hurl
ed forward their troops in great waves
against the German trenches late to
day, but were driven back with heavy
losses under infantry fire. The French
smashed against*the German lines re
peatedly.
Dr. and Mrs. Zimmerman will enter
tain a cousin of Mrs. Zimmerman, Har
old Wylie, of Drayton, N. D., while the
glee club of the state university is in
town Wednesday and Thursday. They
will also entertain another young" man
from the same place who is the pi
anist of the club and whom Mrs. Zim
merman knew from childhood, Howard
Patmore.
Miss. Sadie Beleal returned Sunday
from a week's visit with her sister,
Mrs. Sanders, at Mlnot.
.tt-ftJ-lVyk' j* ilA
Mammoth Corn Show
for Great Northwest
One of the important agricultural
events of the northwest for 1916 will
be the second annual "First National"
corn show, which will be held in St.
Pa,ul Dec. 11-16, inclusive. Contests will
be open to every farmer and farmer's
son in the northwest.
Territory Included.
The corn show territory will remain
the same as last year, and includes the
following states, divided into districts
as shown: Minnesota, six districts
northwestern Wisconsin, two North
Dakota, six South Dakota, six Mon
tana, six Washington, three Idaho,
three Oregon, two. One hundred and
thirty-six silver and "goldyn bronze"
loving cups will be awarded as prizes.
Competition will be divided into a
men's and boys' class, and is confined
to districts only, there being no com
petition between states or between dis
tricts.
The geographical divisions for the
six districts in North Dakota are as fol
lows:
District No. 1—Counties of Pembina,
Cavalier, Towner, Ramsey and Walsh.
District No. 2—Counties of Bottin
eau, Rolette, McHenry, Pierce and
Benson.
District No. 3—Counties of Divide,
Burke, Renville, Williams, Mountrail
and Ward.
District No. 4—Counties of Grand
Forks, Nelson, Traill, Steele, Griggs,
Eddy, Foster, Wells, Sheridan and Mc
Lean.
District No. 5—Counties of Cass,
Barnes, Stutsman. Kidder, Burleigh,
Emmons, Logan, Mcintosh, LaMoure,
Dickey, Ransom, Sargent and Rich
land.
District No. 6—Counties of McKen
zie, Dunn, Mercer, Oliver, Golden Val
ley, Billings, Morton, Hettinger,
Adams, Bowman, Stark, Slope and
Sioux.
Prizes Valued at $5,000
Four prizes will be awarded in each
district of each state, a first and sec
ond prize for men and a first and sec
ond prize for boys, trophies for the lat
ter to be of like design and equal in
value to those awarded the adult ex
hibitors.
•Each exhibit must consist of ten
ears of any variety of Indian corn
raised by contestant in a field of one
or more acres, but not less than one
acre. No fee will be charged for entry
of exhibits.
Judging Exhibits.
A judge of recognized standing will
make awards at the show and in so do
ing will judge exhibits by what he con
siders to be a recognized standard for
any variety of corn raised in that parti
cular district. Average size, produc
tiveness, breed type and general ap
pearance will be the governing factors.
Exhibits will be returned in every
case where contestants request that
this be done at the time of making en
try.
Bankers Have Entry Blanks
"Corn and Cattle Contribute Capital
for Bigger Bank Balances" is the slo
gan that has been adopted by the First
National bank and the Northwestern
Trust Company of St. Paul and bankers
of the northwest, in the promotion of
their corn shows. Increased interest
in corn production means the ultimate
raising and maintenance of more live
stock and diversification in farming
methods, to the financial advantage
and prosperity of the entire northwest.
Pamphlets giving full details regard
ing the second annual "First National"
corn show and form of entry blank,
may be secured on application from
bankers in the corn contest territory.
The Q. A. E. club met Tuesday even
ing with Mrs. Harry Jacobson. Cards
were enjoyed, Norwegian whist being
the club game. A dainty lunch was
served by the hostess later in the
evening and a pleasant time is report
ed.
Lloyd Witter, son of Mr. and Mrs.
W. L. Witter, of this city, arrived to
day on No. 4 with the university glee
club and will entertain at his home
while he is here a chum from the uni
versity, Ray Nollman.
Mrs. G. L. Farnham and daughter,
Doris, are expected to arrive from Spo
kane, Wash., Friday to visit until Mon
day with friends in the city. They
will be the guests of Mrs. Frank White
while in the city.
Miss Martha Hackbarth has resum
ed her work as chief operator in the
local telephone office, after an absence
of two or three months, due to illness.
Mr. and Mrs. Walter Emery were In
the city Wednesday from Getchell
Prairie.
THE WEEKLY TIMES-RECORD
Last Card Party in
the Old Parish Hall
There was a good crowd in attend
ance at the card party given Tuesday
evening by the ladies of Saint Cather
ine's Altar society in the old parish
hall. This was perhaps the last party
that will be given in the old hall, as it
will soon be torn down to make room
for the new parochial school. Edmund
Schoefter won the high prize and Miss
Bertha Tiber won low. After the cards
were laid aside a social good time was
enjoyed with music and splendid re
freshments. The entire evening was
one of pleasure.
DR. L. S. PLATOU
Democratic candidate at the primar
ies on June 28 for governor of North
Dakota. If elected I promise to give
give the state an administration for all
the people based on good busienss
principles and also with a view of ad
ministering the affairs of state as
economically as is consistent with
good government. Have no pledges to
make only that I will do my best if
elected to perform the duties of gov
ernor solely with a view of represent
ing all the people of the state.
Shower for Bride-to-Be
Tuesday evening a jolly crowd of
young ladies gave a pretty shower at
the home of John Maresh, on Ninth
avenue, in honor of Miss Elsie Steffen,
who has been acting as chief operator
at the local telephone office in the
place of Miss Martha Hackbarth.
The rooms were decorated in pink
and blue, roses and carnations adding
their beauty to the color scheme. Var
ious games were enjoyed, among them
a peanut race, in which Miss Lillian
Anderson came out the winner, and
Miss Martha Hackbarth won the booby
prize. A mock wedding, in burlesque
costume, formed the chief feature of
the evening's amusement. The bride
was Miss Clara Abrahamson the
groom, Miss Florence Maresh. Miss
Ella Grodem and Miss Kate Maresh
attended as best man and bridesmaid,
while Miss Augusta Hackbarth acted
as minister and tied the knot. The
wedding march was played by Miss
Martha Hackbarth. A delicious wed
ding luncheon was served in three
courses by the young ladies. There
were 15 guests present and a delight
ful time was enjoyed. The guest of
honor was the recipient of several
beautiful pieces of cut glass. Miss
Steffen is to be married in Fargo Wed
nesday evening to L. H. Amidon, who
is well known here, and the wedding
trip will include a visit at the home of
the bride in Minneapoils. During her
stay in Valley City Miss Steffen won
many friends with whom the Times
Record joins in extending congratula
tions and good wishes.
Golden Rule MakesLowPrices
Manager Andreasen, of the Golden
Rule store, takes space this week to
tell of the bargains he offers. With
the buying power of 125 stores behind
the Golden Rule, it is reasonable to
suppose that he can make prices that
will be very attractive. It won't ccs..
you anything to call on him, anyway.
Mrs O. Peterson, of Crookston, Minn.,
and Dr. and Mrs. Jehning, of Twin
Valley, Minn., came Saturday to spend
Easter with the Aamoth families. The
ladies are sisters of H. C., Alfred and
Francis Aamoth. They remained over
for the Easter ball and returned to
their homes Tuesday.
I'
1
S. P. Ellis Sold Out
Wood and Oil Business
S. P. Ellis has disposed of his fuel
business and his agency for the Stand
ard Oil company to A. H. Grady, of
Tower City. Mr. Grady is a brother
of James Grady, and is reported to
have the Grady business ability. In
making this purchase he secures a
flourishing business.
Mr. Ellis has been agent for the
Standard Oil for 16 years, and his re
tirement will be regretted by his num
erous friends and business associates.
For the present he will be employed
in looking after his 7,400 acres of farm
land and other business iruerest3.
0. Knudson's Jewelry
Stock on the Move
O. Ivnudson is busy getting his stock
of jewelry and silverware moved to his
new store building on Main street. He
expects to have it over with and all
arranged by May 1.
The painters and decorators have
been busy at the new place which will
present a handsome appearance when
the finishing touches have been given.
The large plate glass front will give
room for a nice window display. The
steel ceiling has been finished in
white, the wainscoting is white and the
walls between these are grained in
oak. The floor is a tile, and when the
show and wall cases are in the whole
will present one of the niftiest appear
ing stores in this part of the country.
Mr. Knudson will be ready to wel
come all his old customers on the
above date, and will be in a position
to give service and prices that will
bring him many new ones.
One Million People in
North Dakota in 1920
Grand Forks, April 26.—In his an
nual address delivered before the di
rectors of the North Dakota develop
ment league press bureau at Grand
Forks recently, the president of that
organization calls attention to the fact
that unprecedented growth and de
velopment is now taking place in this
state. Building is going forward in
every part of North Dakota and he
predicts an increase in population of
over 100 per cent when the next fed
eral census is taken. If his predictions
are realized, North Dakota will have
considerably over a million people in
1920.
Not only is North Dakota going to
go forward rapidly, but she already
has numerous evidences of prosperity.
She now has an assessed valuation
of $313,286,098.
An actual property valuation of at
least four times the assessed valua
tion, or $1,253,144,392.
An assessed railway valuation of
$45,702,909.
A per capita wealth of $2,005, based
upon a population of 625,000 and the
actual value of property. Figured on
the same basis the per capita wealth
of the United States for 1904 (the last
date given in statistical abstract of
the United States for 1913), was only
$1,318.11.
A per capita agricultural production
of the value of $289.52, based upon
production during crop year of 1914,
and values of December 1,1914.
She has 6,184 miles of fully equipped
railways in operation.
More than 1,000 miles of railway in
course of construction or survedey.
An arable land surface of more than
10,000,000 acres 69,765 farms in 1914,
with an average acreage per farm of
334 acres 15,112,596 acres actually un
der cultivation.
She has 637 state and 149 national
banks with surplus profits of more
than $6,000,000, and deposits of $89,
078,424. One bank to every 795 inhabi
tants.
A school and institutional land grant
worth $64,000,000, and constituting a
perpetual endowment for the schools
and institutions 6,685 school depart
rr.onts 177,316 pupils 7,891 teachers.
Over $5,000,000 expended on its
common schools during 1914.
Miss Delia Faukald went to Fargo
Tuesday afternoon, where she will
meet her sister, Miss Mayme Faukald,
who has been spending the past seven
or eight months in Wichita, Kan., and
at Kansas City. Together they will
spend a few days with relatives and
friends in the Gate City and return tc
Valley. City.
VALLEY CITY, NORTH DAiKOTA, THURSDAY, April 27, 1916. (This Issue 12 Pages.) ESTABLISHED 1«7fL
Lincoln Circle Enjoyed
Program and Social Hour
The social meeting of the Lincoln
circle 'Tuesday afternoon was well at
tended in spite of the weather, over
60 mothers and their friends being
present. A piano duet was played by
the Misses Wallace and Frohne. Miss
Dewey delightfully entertained the cir
cle with a group of James Whitcomb
Riley's stories. At the close of the
program a social hour was pleasantly
spent and refreshments were served
by the teachers. The fifth grade won
the pennant for the most parents pres
ent.
P. 0. Building Supt. of
Construction Arrives
J. A. Leslie, of St. Paul, arrived in
the city Tuesday. He is to be superin
tendent of construction for O'Neil &
Son, of Faribault, Minn., the firm hav
ing the contract to erect the postoflice
building here. A carload of construc
tion paraphernalia is on the track and
it is expected operations will start
right away. Mr. O'Neill is expected
Friday and definite plans will then be
announced. It is quite probable that
teams and help for excavating will be
secured here.
Normal Will Observe
Arbor and Bird Day
Arbor and Bird day will be observed
at the Normal school on Thursday
morning, April 27, at the regular
chapel period. The children from the
third and fourth grades will present a
program to which the general public
is cordially invited.
Getchell Prairie School to
Entertain Friends Saturday
The Getchell Prairie high school will
entertain their friends at Getchell
Prairie church Saturday evening, April
29, at 8:15. The seniors and juniors
will debate the question, Resolved:
That the capitol of North Dakota
should be removed to New Rockford.
Following this there will be a debate
by the freshmen and the seventh
grade on the disposition of old maid
school teachers. A dainty lunch will
be served in the basement for which
a grand march will be formed. A sil
ver offering will be taken. The feature
of the evening will be the first appear
ance of the school Victrola. There
are records for everyone, old and
young. All are cordially invited.
Splendid Japanese Art
Exhibit at the Normal
The art department at the Normal
school this week is the scene of a
beautiful exhibit of Japanese art and
handiwork. From a firm of Japanese
merchants in Chicago Miss Deem has
secured this fine exhibit to use in con
nection with her class work, which
spends some time each year during the
spring term in the study of Japanese
art. In the exhibit are some exquisite
wood block prints, paintings, reproduc
tions of the great Japanese masters,
and many fine examples of Japanese
hand work, such as card cases, kim
onas, handbags, curios, etc. This ex
hibit is open to the general public in
the afternoon and there is no fee of
admission. All who are interested,
however, may purchase articles from
the exhibit belonging to the Chicago
firm at reasonable prices. The exhi
bit is supplemented by Miss Perrine's
collection from the school museum and
is something of an education in itself.
Irish Attempt to Throw Off
English Rule Not Successful
The Odds and Ends club met Tues
day night with the Misses Baillie, on
West Fifth street, and enjoyed a
pleasant evening. The evening was
spent in playing 500 and later light re
freshments were served by the host
esses. Two guests were present, Mrs.
Irma Russell Bearae and Mrs. Geo.
•"•W* ... .. .1
-v
London, April 25.—A revolutionary
outbreak in Ireland in which British
troops and volunteers sustained rela
tively heavy casualties, and a raid by
a German battle cruiser squadron on
the east coast of England in which the
raiders escaped after having bombard?
ed Lowestoft and hit two British
cruisers and a destroyer, are the out
standing features of the war.
So far as has been made public the
revolution in Ireland has not extended
beyond Dublin, where members of the
Sinn Fein society on Monday captured
the postoflice and other points in Dub
lin, and, in the lighting which ensued
with the troops and Loyalists, killed
at least 11 of the city's defenders and
wounded nearly a score of others.
What the losses of the revolutionists
were has not been stated.
The British government asserts that
the situation in Dublin now is well in
hand. The German battle cruiser
squadron made its attack on Low
estoft, opening fire on vhe coast and
killing two men, one woman and a
child. British light cruisers, torpedo
boat destroyers and aircraft chased
the Germans, vho put back hastily
toward Germany. Two British cruis
ers and a destroyer were hit by Ger
man shells but none was sunk. Wheth
er the Germans suffered any damage
is not known.
Excepting Loraine there has been an
entire absence of infantry fighting on
the western front. The big guns, how
ever, have continued their rain of
shells on opposing positions at vari
ous points.
At LaChapelotte in Loraine, the Ger
mans launched a heavy infantry attack
against the French, which was repuls
ed. Some of the Germans obtained
a foothold in a portion of the French
salient but later were driven out with
heavy losses.
Around Hill 304 and in the region of
Esnes and Cumieres, northwest of
Verdun, the bombardment continues
intense. To the east of Verdun around
Moulainville, there also has been a
violent bombardment. In the Argonne
the French have destroyed with their
guns a German post and shattered a
German trench over a small front.
Considerable aerial activity by the
French airmen, in which four German
machines were brought down is re
ported by Paris.
On the eastern front near Garbun
oxka, the Russians made a heavy at
tack against the Germans, but, accord
ing to Berlin, were repulsed with san
guinary losses. Heavy artillery en
gagements are still in progress in the
upper Cordevole and Monte San Mi
chale zones of the Austro-Italian front.
British official communications from
Mesopotamia say the British are still
holding their lines on the right bank
of the Tigris against the Turks and
have somewhat extended them at one
point by driving in the Turkish pick
ets.
London, April 25.—Hostile airships
raided the counties of Essex and Kent
Tuesday night, according to an official
statement.
"The number of raiders is uncer
tain," the communication adds, "but
they did not exceed four. The raiders
were met by a brisk anti-air-craft gun
fire and retreated after achieving little
or nothing."
Fractured His Right Wrist
Neil Bailey, of the Ritchie school,
had the misfortune to fall while jump
ing during recess Wednesday fore
noon, and fractured the right wrist.
He was taken at once to the doctor,
who put it in a plaster cast and made
him as comfortable as was possible.
Clarence O'Connor, of St. Thomas,
who is with the glee club as a tenor
soloist, was a former student of two
of our high school faculty, the Misses
Margaret Plank and Winifred Wood,
who were former teachers in the high
school at that place. He will be en
tertained by Mrs. Mudgett.
Dr. and Mrs. Hunt will entertain
two of the university glee club men
while they are in the city, Louis M.
Knopp, of St. Paul, who is a fraternity
brother of Dr. Hunt, and Howard De
Long, who is a friend of Mrs. Hunt
from Grand Fdrks.
Mrs. ChaB. Bearse, who has been vis
iting friends in the city for three
weeks, will return to her home in
Strassburg, Sask., Can., Wednesday
evening. She has been a guest at the
home of Mrs. Geo, Kelsey.
•J
