State Historical Society
Taney County
EPUBLICAN
Vol. "J I. No. t!4.
FORSYTH, MISSOURI, THURSDAY, A I'RIL 27, 1910.
Four Pages.
Washington letter
IKmni Our IWiilnr C'rrt'srm(l-iit.i
Mexican Conditions worse:
After Emphatically denying for sev
eral days that Carranza had demanded
withdrawal of American ttops from
Mexican territory, the White House
was forced to admit by the newspaper
publication of the text of Carranzi's
message-, that he had. Coincidental
with this admission came news of the
clash between American aud Carranza
troops and civilians at Parral. which
greatly increased the anxiety of the
military authorieties regarding the fate
of all or portions of General Pershing's
command. Furthermore there has
come the disclosure that the White
House misstated the facts when it an
nounced that Carranza had consented to
the entry of American troops into Mexi
co in pursuit of Villa. The text of
Carranzi's note, now made public,
shows that he consented only in the
event of another raid following that at
Columbus, to this Government's send
ing an armed force after Villa. With
that indirectness which is one of the
chief characteristics of this Ad
ministration, President Wilson instruct
ed Secretary Lansing to ignore the
condition prescribed by Carranza and
to announce that Carranza consented
to the punitive expedition. Mr. Lan
sing did so, but immediately thereafter
left for Hot Springs to take "a much
needed rest," a step which caused
amazement at the time, in view of the
delicate situation with tegard to Mexi
co, but which now seems to be ex
plained by the unwelcome task set
him by his chief.
No Change of Policy: When
the news of the conflict at Parrall was
first received it was admitted at the
White House that perhaps after nil,
the American troops would be with
drawn, but it was stated that the policy
would be decided on at Friday's Cabi
net meeting and the decision announ
ced thereafter. After the Cabinet
meeting yesterday, it was gravely an
nounced that "With regard to Mexico
there will be no change in policy."
What that means everyone must guess
for himself as there has never been
any consistent Mexican policy since
Mr. Wilson's effort to drive Huerta
out of Mexico proved successful, and
as the most astute judge of internation
al affairs can discern no principle of
the Administration in its dealings wi:h
Mexico which has endured more than
twenty-four hours. Neither the Presi
dent nor his Secretary would explain
what was meant by "no change policy,"
even when it was suggested that an
absence of change in itself implied a
complete change.
Daniels not to Blame: That Jo
sephus Daniels, Secretary of the Navy,
is not primarily to blame for the gag
ging of navy officers and for most of
the egregious blunders he apparently
has made is the charge made by Hen
ry Reuterdhal, the graetest expert on
tie American Navy. Mr. Retuerdahl
charges what many have long suspect
ed, that Woodrow Wilson is responsible
for most of the Daniels "breaks" and
tiat Diniels is just the type of little
man which Mr. Wilson likes to have
in his Cabinet. Repossesses neither
dignity cor character and is so delight
ed at simply being in the Cabinet that
he cheerfully does whatever the Presi
dent tell him to, denies facts with al
acrity, accepts the blame complacently
and does nor even demus when, as
happens from time to time, the Presi
dent turns on him and kicks him.
Aside from the fact that no man knows
the inner workings of the navy so well
as Mr. Reuterdahl, futher color is given
to his charge by the fact that Mr. Wil
son quirreled with Secretary Garrison
who wasa radically different type, a real
man, and forced him out of the Cabi
net, whiL' he hangs on to Daniels de
spite the wealth ((criticism which his
retention entails; by the fact that the
President adopted a course which forc
ed John Passelt Moore, the ablest
diplomat in the Democratic party, out
oi the State Deparlmett.; that he
quarrelel even with Mr. Bryan
when Mr. Bryan refused to admit the
infallibility of his chief and to accept,
without protest the criticism which fol
lowed the car ving out of the President's
orders and by the further fact that Mr.
Bryan's successor asSecretary of State is
is little more than a puppet, doing only
what Mr. Wilson tells him to and su
bordinating every conviction of his own
to the President's wishes. Mr. Wil
son's "entire Cabinet bears witness to
thefact that, no man with backbone or
character of his own can serve und;r
Woodrow Wilson.
MORGANTIIAU QUITS: Following
repeated emphatic denials by the
White House that Henry Morganthau,
Ambassador to Turkey, contemplated
resigning from the Diplomatic Corps
to aid Mr. Wilson in his campaign for
reelection, the White House now ad
mits that these reports were true and
Mr. Morginthau has resigned and
fjr that purpose. It is asserted
however, that the President has not
deffinitely decided to accept Mr. Mor
ganthau's resignation because of the
welt-recognized fact that it would be in
jurious to diplomatic interests of the
United State to make a change
bassadors atConstantinople at this time.
There are those who are unkind
enough to believe that the acceptance
of Morganthau's resignation depends
chiefly upen hew bedly, in the
President's estimation, that he needs
the financier's political assistance.
"SAVING MISSOURI:" Returns
from the municipal elections in Mis
souri demonstrate how sincere were
tne wails of Speaker Clark and Senator
"Jim" Reed about the necessity ol
sending the Democratic Convention to
St. Louis to save that State and re elect
Reed. The Convention was sent to
St. Louis and Sephus Daniels jjggled
wth a big thoe contract, as has been
told in this correspondence, to save
the State, but to what avail? As a re
sult of the spring municipal elections
there is not a municipality in the State
of 20.000 population or upwards which
did not go Republican by large major
ity. St. Louis, Kansas City,, St. Jos
eph. Springfi-ld, Joplin and a host of
others will have Republican administra
tions as a result of the "popularity" of
President Wilson and the Democratic
Administration, and Republicans who
now declare that nothing can save the
State from the Republicans in Nov
ember.
Looting it Both Ways
At the beginning of his term Mr.
Wilson proceeded to loot the diplo
matic service for the purpose of pro
viding places for "deserving Demo
crats." among whom the most deserv
ing were found to be those who had
contributed most generously to the
Wilson campaign fund. Toward the
end of his term Mr. Wilson is again
looting the diplomatic service for the
purpose of providing useful and ener
getic politicians who will assist iu
carrying forward his campaign for re
election. It is just now made known that
Henry Morganthau, Ambassador at
Constantantinople, will resign his post
to take up some very important work
connected with the financial end of
the president's canvass. Mr. Morgen
thau is cow in this country on leave of
absence and a few weeks ago it was
hinted that the exigencies of politics
would prevent his return to Turkey.
In the white heat of a fictitious indig
nation this rumor was denied. But
the truth now appears and Mr. MorJ
genthau will stay at home. The ex
perience he has gained in Turkey
will go for naught. Another "deserv
ing Democrat" will be sent to that
troubleous area to learn the ropes at
the expense of the American treasury
and to the cost of American interests.
But Mr. Wilson will have achieved
the distinction of being the first Presi
dent who has attempted to loot the
diplomatic service both going and
coming.
Japan is spending about (500,000
annually for paint for ships' bottoms.
The seamen's law having driven the
last vestige of American foreign-going
tonnage, from the high reas there is
nothing left for the American seamen
to paint but the town.
America and Germany
"Unless the Imperial German Gov
ernment should now immediately de
clare and effect an abandonment of its
present methods of warfare against pas
senger and freight carrying vessels,
this government can have no choice
but to sever diplomatic relations with
the Government of the German Em
pire altogether."
Such were the words in which Presi
dent Wilson yesterday announced to
the joint Assembly of Congress the
position and intent of the American
Govcrnmant with respect to German
submarine warfare. It is in the nature
of an ultimatum, declaring action of
an unfriendly nature to be inevitable
unless the course that provokes it is
immediately abandoned. There
is no time limit set, but the
word "immediate" is specific. There
is no demand for modification of sub
marine warfare, but for a definite aban
donment, a complete cessation of its
present methods.
The President's address to Congress
is a plain yet eloquent statement of a
series of facts that are eloquent in
themselves. He reviews the events
of the past fifteen months in relation
to submarine warfare upon merchant
vessels, and the continuous efforte to
the established rules of international
law and to a recognition of the rights
of neutrals upon the high seas. He
points to the solemn assurances repeat
edly given by the German Government
that passenger ships, at least, would
uot be destroyed, and to the repeated
disregard of these assurances by Ger
man submarine commanders. He calls
attention to the growing extent aud
increasing ferocity of this warfare which
does not confine itself to the vessels of
belligerents, but includes those ol
neutral nations, and even those plying
between neutral ports. "And the roll
of Americans who have lost their lives
on ships thus attacked and destroyed,"
he adds with concise emphasis, "has
grown month by month until the omi
nous toll has mounted into hundreds."
The Sussex is linked with the Lusi
tania as an instance ''so singularly
tragical and unjustifiable as to consti
tute a truly terrible example of the in
humanity of submarine warfare as the
commanders of German vessels have
for the past twelve months been con
ducting it". No doubt is expressed
of German guilt in the case of the Sus
sex, and no reference is made in the
address to the fantastic report of the
German Government in regard to this
vessel, but the note itsself pronounces
the evidence conclusive.
But the tenor of the entire address
is the impossibility of carrying on sub
marine war against vessels of com
merce without violation of the rights
of neutrals and the principles of hu
manity. It concedes the sincerity of
the German Government in its expla
nations and assurances, but points to
the record as incontestable proof that
such warfare cannot be conducted in
observence of these rights and with ad
herence to these principles, and there
fore demands its abolishment.
It is hardly necessary to say that the
United States will indorse the presi
dents words, and will support whatever
action may be necessary for the pro
tection of American rights and the pre
servation of American honor. We do
not desire a war with Germany, or with
any other nation, and we hope that even
a severance of diplomatic relations will
not lead to that dread eventually, but
the destruction of American lives in
the sinking of peaceful &hip of com
merce is intolerable and the govern
ment would be false to its trust if it
did not take vigorous action when
measures of diplomacy have been ex
hausted, as they seem tc have been in
this case. No one can say that Amer
ica has been hasty. No one can say
that it has not been patient under
great provocation. But there is a
limit to just forbearance, and that limit
appears to have been reached in our
relations with Germany. Globe-Dem-octat.
War Protection and Prosperity
The American Woolen Company, of
Boston, and the Arlington Mills, of
Lawrence Mass., have announced that
they will pass to their employees a
share of their war order prosperity in
the shape of an increase of 10 per
cent in wages. This will affect 25,
000 operatives in the former and 7,000
in the latter company. This increase
4
does not represent all that the woolen
mill operatives have gained as a result
of the increased prosperity growing out
of the war boom. On the first of the
year they were granted an increase of
5 per cent. Wages in the textile trades
are now 25 per cent higher than for
merly. For the first time in its history the
American Woolen Company paid in
1915 11 4 per cent on its 830,000,000
of coninioustock. In 1913-14, under
the blight of the Democratic tariff it
paid regular dividend on the preferred
stock out of surplus, its earnings not
being sufficient.
The European war not only acted as
a protective tariff on manufactured
woolens, but our exports to the bellig
erents have increased beyond all cal
culations. During the calendar year
1913 we exported manufactures of
wool to the value of 54,600,000. In
1914, with five months of war, they
reached 812,500,000, while in 1915
thty reached the unprecedented value
of 842,600,000. Blankets, uniforms,
etc., lormed the bulk of these exports,
and the Department of Commerce re
fuses to recognize such articles as
munitions of war.
Democrats Weak in the House
"The greatest loss sustained by the
Democratic party since its advent to
power was the election of Oscar W,
Underwood to the United States Sen
ate," declared a disgrunteled Demo
cratic Member ol Congress recently.
Oscar has taken a back seat in the up
per branch of Congress, where Senator
Reed does all the bossing. But when
Underwood was chief engineer in the
House the machinery was always well
oi'ed. I have been in Cangress over
a score of years, and never in my ex
perience in that body have things
been in such a chaotic state as at pres
ent, and it is all on account ol lack of
leadership. Here we are well along
into April and nothing of importance
done. Preparedness waits on revenue
legislation, and revenue waits on pre
paredness, with the chief magistrate
injecting discord from day to day. I
am certain of reelection, and for my
part I will be glad to return to a minor
ity status.
When Oscar Underwood was our
leader we accomplished things. The
wishes af the President were carried
out and our confidence in Underwood's
leadership gave assurance of harmony,
now every body is pulling seven ways
for Sunday and we can't get anything
done. We are getting into a legis
lative wilderness which calls for a Dem
ocratic Moses to lead us out."
Democrats Discriminate Against Farmers
Congressman George W. Fairchild,
of New York, points out the manner
in which the Democrats discriminate
against farmers. He said in a recent
address : "There is a feature of the
Democratic tariff which the people of
New York in common with the people
of all the Northern States in justice to
themselves, ought to .keep in mind.
This feature is the spirit of sectional
favoritism which the Democratic Party
displayed in its tariff work. The Dem
ocratic Party is controlled for the most
part, as we know, by Representatives
in Connress from the Southern States
These men, although they profess the
theory of free trade as a principle to
be applied generally, nevertheless
took good care in framing their tariff
that their own agricultural constituents
should not be just as severely as the
farmres of the Northern Stales.
"The grains such as are raised by
the northern farmers were either made
entirely free of duty or cut down to
extremely low rates, but rice, a greac
product of southern farmers, was per
mitted to continue to enjoy a protect
ive duty. Potatoes .which northern
farmers produce are practically on
the free list, while peanuts, which
the farmers of Virginia, North Carolina
and other Southern States produce,
have the benefit of a protective duty.
The wool produced by northern farmers
is on the free list, but the hair of the
Angora goat, which is produced in
Texas, has a protective duty. The
fruits of the Northern States were made
to suffer heavy reductions of duty, but
the oranges produced in Florida are
allowed a substantial protective duty.
Our northern farmers are not narrow
their views, and are not dissatisfied
that southern farmers enjoy the bene
fits of protective duties such as they
themselves do not now enjoy. Our
farmers realize that any development
of industry in this country is a benefit
to all, and that this is true whether the
industry be agricultural or manufactur
ing. But they realize also that the
policy of the southern Democrats in
Congress was a narrow one in not giv
ing just consideration to the needs of
agriculture in all sections, and that it
could also be criticised as unfair to the
sections discriminated against.
Government by Men, Not by Law
It has taken the new Secretary of
War precious little time to get the
"hang of the schoolhouse." In defi
ance of the law he has refused to is
sue guns and ammunition to a rifle
club in Arizooians might be tempted
to use them against Mexicans. The
rule in this administration is that when
ever a law runs counter to the predju
dices or opinions or the political in
terests of anyone in authority, the law
is to be set aside arbitrarily. Mr.
Baker soon found this out is acting
accordingly. The Senators from
Arizona may rave about it, but the
fact remains that we now have a gov
ernment of men and not of laws such
as the Fathers contemplated. This
sort ol thing is called "the new free
dom," and all the liberty inheres in
the Democrat who happens to be
holding office temporarily.
Through an error Champ Clark found
himself the other night at a hospitable
table where some Republican Congress
men were giving a dinner. He enjoyed
himself hugely, the reports say; and it
is safe guessing that he was much
more agreeably placed than if he found
himself at a board where there might
be a more pronounced emphasis in
favor of the present occupant of the
White House.
It is significant that in every Slate
where a presidential preference vote is
taken and where the State is one
whose electoral vote is essential to win
the Democratic vote invariably falls lar
behind the Republican vote. It will
be the same when the conclusive pres
idential preference vote is tiken in
November.
Merchandise left the port of New
York April 6th to the value of 815,
356,000 for France, Italy, and Great
Britain. Of this total, horses, brass,
and wheat made up 812,000,000.
The remainder was automobiles, che
micals, explosives, etc. And Doctor
Pratt denies that our exports are swolen
chiefly by war orders.
Reports of Billy Sunday's Sermons in The
Kansas City Weekly Journal
Billy Sunday's great revival meet
ings will commence in Kansas City on
or about April 30, and will continue
for about eight weeks. You should
not fail to read the ( reports of these
great sermons as they will appear in
The Kansas City Weekly Journal.
The Weekly Journal can be secured
for a whole year for only 25 cents.
Besides the sermons you will receive
in the Weekly Journal a fine telegraph
report gfviDg the European war news
as well as the news of Mexico. You
will also receive a large volume of con
condensed general news and a splen
did market report. Send 25 cents to
day and get the great Kansas City
Weekly Journal one full year. Ad
dress the Kansas City Weekly Journal,
Kansas City, Mo., Eighth and McGee
streets, Dept. S.
No Monopoly of Patriotism.
The deliberate efforts of Democrats
to mix partisan politics in foreign affairs
is illustrated by this paragraph from the
Portland, Oregon, Journal:
"People who are trying to submarine
the Wilson administration should be
forcibly reminded that it has the na
tion's honor on board".
If this means anything at all, it
means that in the opinion the Demo
crats, maintenance of the nation's honor
tequires the reelection of Woodrow
Wilson. It may be just as well to let
the Jorunal and all other Democrats
know that the nation's honor is njt
monopolized by any one man or any
one party. A part can never be great
er kthan the whole. By its action,
cither the Republican party or the
Democratic party may embarrass the
government or give it cause for pride,
but national honor never did and never
will depend upon the continuance or
retirement of any party that ever did
exist or ever will exist.
Morover, it is also good time to let
all Democrats understand that a series
of foreign "crises" will not be per
mitted to cover up the multitude of
official sins for which the present ad
ministration should be and will be
called to account. We have not yet
fallen so low in civic standards--we are
not so absolutely wanting in statesman
ship, that we must give popular approv
al to a party that has broken practically
all its important campaign pledges, for
fear we shall sacrifice the nation's
"honor."
Next November the American people
will put the Democratic administration
on trial and judge it fairly and im
partially. They will weigh it in the
balance and if they find it wanting,
they will not hesitate one moment to
so declare. They will not judge it by
any one or two acts by its foreign
policies or its domestic policies alone.
They will take its whole record into
consideration and cast their ballots as
seems to them wisest for the good of
our common country whose chief pur
pose is to promote our welfare at home
through all the years of peace, rather
than to solve the problems of rare and
uncertain perinds of war.
One of the most potent arguments
against the Wilson-McAdoo Alexander
ship purchase bill, when it was before
Congress last year was that if the
Government owned and operated the
ships it must of necessity be interested
in tonnage movements free cf inter
ruptions from belligerent activities;
.hat it would in a measure make Uncle
Sara a party to the European brawl.
That was one of the considerations
which helped to defeat the bill. Now
the proposition has arisen to tax muni
tions of war, and from $25,000,000 to
840, 000,000 in taxes is to be raised
thereby. This, likewise would make
the Government, to all intents and
purposes, a partner in the profits of a
traffic it is supposed, under international
law to merely tolerate, aside from the
question as to whether it would be an
indirect tax on imports, forbidden by
the Constitution. Leave it to the
Democats to muddle the situation.
Why can they not be content with
the increased revenues derived from
tHe taxation of incomes swollen by war
profits?
Seven years ago a Republican Sec
retary of State tried to have Congress
establish the office of Under Secretary
but the highly Democratic Demo'
crats reared up and denounced the
scheme as a pattering after the
effete monarchies of Europe. So,
while the job was established, the title
given to it was that of Councellor.
Now the Democrats have brought in a
to change the name of the place to
Under Secretary. It is a small matter,
perhaps, but, taken with all the other
Republican notions which Dinocrats
nowadays are adopting, it is worth not
ing. Mexico is to issue "fiduciary mon
ey" to the amount of 500,COD,000
pesos. Like McAdoo's "Net Eal
ance," the public is asked to take it
on faith.
