THE BARME DAILY, TIMES
VOL. XX NO. 37.
HARRE, VERMONT, THURSDAY,' APRIL 27, 1910.
PRICE, ONE CENT:
WEAK ASSAULT
WAS REPULSED
Small German Attack North
of Fort Vaux Stopped
by Artillery
HEAVY BOMBARDMENT
DURING THE NIGHT
A French Pilot Brought
Down German Aeroplane
in Apincourt Wood
Paris, April 27. The French positions
before Verdun were bombarded heavily
kist night but the Germans made no
strong infantry attacks." A small assault
north of Fort Vaux was stopped immedi
ately by French artillery fire, the war
o Itice announced this afternoon. German
patrols were encountered nortli of the
Aisne and were repulsed in fighting with
hand grenades, and a German reeonnoit-
enng party east of Le Mesml was (lis
persed, A German aeroplane was brought
down in Apincourt wood by a trench
pilot,
NORWEGIAN BARK
DESTROYED BY SHELL
FIRE OF SUBMARINE
MEXICAN CONFER
ENCE MAY BE
AT EL PASO
Generals Scott and Funston Expect to
Leave for That Place to Meet Obre
gon of the Carranza Government.
San Antonio, Tex., April 27. A con
ference between Generals Scott, Funston
.mil Obregon, representing the United
States and Mexico, will take place either
in EI Paso or Juarez, it was announced
at department headquarters to-day. i
Scott and Funston expect to leave for
El Paso to-night.
IRELAND
FLAMES
FORTH
ADVISED TO LEAVE DURANGO.
Americans Told That It is Best to Leave
That Section,
Torreon. Mexico. April 27. American
Consul Loch at Durango City has ad
vmed all Americans to leave the city
and is himself considering the advisubil'
ity of coiner to the border. A serious
situation has been caused through the
violent anti-American agitation since the
fight at Parral.
Whole of the Country Was
Declared To-day Under
Martial Law, Following
the Outbreak of Revolt
Through Dublin County
Early in Week
AGREEMENT AT KEENE,
BARON WIMBORNE
NOT CAPTURED
Crew of Carmanian Put Out in Small
Boats and One of the Boats Was
Captured by Germans.
- Ixindon, April 27. The sinking of a
neutral vessel by gunfire from a Ger
man submarine was officially announced
to-day. The Norwegian bark Carmanian
ivas destroyed and a boat containing
part of her crew was captured. '
Calls for Five Years Work to Be Start-
. ... ed About May 1.
Kcene, N. If., April 27 The Granite
Cutters' International association and
tin Victoria. White. ra.nit.e. comnanv of
this city 'have come to an agreement and British Foreign OfllCC De-
worn at me local sncas win commence
about May 1.
The new agreement for five years calls
for a minimum wago of $4 per day in
stead of $3.25, also no work on Labor
day j double pay for Sundays and . holi
days ; forty-four hours per week, eight
hours per day, for five days and four
hours Saturday; time and one-Jialf for
all overtime work. The local company
employs about 150 granite cutters.
nies That the Lord Lieu
tenant of Ireland Has
Been Taken Prisoner, or
That Any Other High Of
ficial Has Been Seized
RUTLAND STRIKE 6R0WS.
More
of
Howe 'Scale Co.'s
Their Places.
Men Quit
DUTCH GUNBOAT
SUNK BY BRITISH,
SAY GERMANS
Rutland. April 27. About 140 Hal
wn laborers, largely helpers to ine
moulders, etnick at the Howe Scale
works yesterday, after a refusal of the
president, ex-llov. Mead,' Tuesday to
grant their demand for 25 per cent ill-
London, April 27. Martial law has
been declared throughout all Ireland. The
first report given out by the foreign office
to-day stated that only the county of
was without hope- of escaping death for
treason. It is believed that his trial
and condemnation will be speedy, ai
though for the present it is not possibl
to say whether he will be executed.
Bcpresentatives of the American cm
bassy have been in conference with the
officials in charge ol the ease, prcsum
ably regarding the Anitrifun ramifica
tioiw. i
The steamer was sunk with all her
cargo, consisting of rifles, machine guns
and ammunition.'
KEEN INTEREST IN PLOT.
Said to Have Been Indicated in Part of
Some Americans. (
New York, April 27. Papers whirli
show that prominent irishmen and Ger
mans m tho I. nitcd Mates exhibited f
keen interest in plans for a revolt in
Ireland were found by- federal agents
in their raid on the former office here
of Captain Franz Von PapeA withdrawn
Herman military attache, according to a
statement made last nusht by a high
government ofiicial. Whether the gov
ernment will undertake an investigation
rests with the department of justice at
Washington which has the question un
der advisement, it was said.
Some of the letters and other docu
ments, it was asserted, bear the signa
tures of men who have been leaders in
the home rule propaganda in this couu
try. Methods of raising funds for the
equipment of Irish revolutionists were
freely discussed and in some of the let
ters appeals were made for financial
aid.. -
HALF MILLION OFFER
FOR EVERY VESSEL
THAT WAS SUNK
Was Statement on Witness Stand By
Man Who Was Testifying for the
Prosecution in Case Charging
Conspiracy to Blow Up
Ammunition Ships.
New York, April 27 The German gov
ernment was prepared to pay $500,000
eaoh for the destruction of ships load-
... . . . , , . .... ed with war supplies' for the entente
Dublin had been placed under martxal I Lieilt. F,,.of the Gernmn
VICTIM DIED;
ARREST MADE
Elmer Washburn Passed
Away at Randolph
Sanatorium
PETER LA ROCK TAKEN
TO WOODSTOCK JAIL
been asked to have a report' ready at the
4 meeting Monday night.
,1 . T-.l , ... 1 1 n .1 n r ! II
person before the council, renewed th
request of the Presbyterian church for
permission to hang a sign on a teiepnono
pole at tho corner of Seminary and North
Main streets. Although the council re
fused the request ft few weeks ago on tne
ground that to grant it would be to take
a stand inconsistent with the attitude
assumed in the past, Mr. Crossland wa
told to bo abend and hahg the sign. Mrs
N. Aldrighetti received a permit to erect
a store building on North Main street
ENTHUSIASTIC
WELCOME FOR
PASTOR AND WIFE
The State Alleged That He
Pounded Washburn
with a Stick
Large Number of People Gathered at
Baptist Church to Meet Rev. and
Mrs. B. J. Lehigh Last Evening.
Tho welcome which the members of
the Baptist church have given individu
ally to their new pastor, Kev. J. 15. Le
high, and his wife was extended in
formal way last night in the church ves
try when a good-sized number of mem
bers of that church and of other
Tintlinl Anril 97 TTlmur Washburn
, - -1 ' I l 1 ii. . l i .. i 1 . A
died at the Randolph sanatorium last 1,1 , 'V y l"mr '
v w.u '"'" ami Mrs. IjfV.arh a welcoming retention.
The vestry was neatly decorated with
yellow and white crepe paper and pot
ted lilies. The " program started at
shortly after 8 o'clock and was an
n on need by Albert Jones, who acted as
master of ceremonies. The exercises
were opened with a prayer by AVilliam
McDonald, after which Deacon r. A.
Hutchinson, in behalf of the church, ex
tended the new pastor and his wile a
hearty welcomo and expressed an earn
est desire to co-operate with them in
whatever they should see fit to under
take while connected with this church-
Mr. Hutchinson sketched briefly the
work of the six pastors of this church
night as the result of injuries received
in this village last Tuesday night when
he sustained concussion of the brain and
a broken jaw. Peter LaRock, aged 21
years, youngest son of Mr. and Mrs. John
LaRock, who yesterday afternoon waived
examination on the charge of assault
with intent to commit murder, was taken
to-day to the county jail at Woodstock,
having failed to secure $5,000 bail which
was fixed at the hearing on the original
charge,
oung LaRock was arrested m Ran
dolph yesterday by Constable rred C
Putnam on complaint of urand Juror
rule.
army, on trial in the United (States
The report that Baron Wimborne, lord court for conspiracy, was quoted ve
lieutenant of Ireland, has been captured terday as having informed Carl U Wit
use in pay, shorter working hours and is denied by the foreign office No inti. tig, a witness for the prosecution,
ognition of the union. "Anticipating .. . . , . . .... I I asked him," testified ittig,
Their Report Declares the Crew of Wa
Ship Were Sent to India to Keep
, ' . Affair Hushed Up.
Berlin, by wireless, April 27. The
overseas News Agency says a report has
been published in the Dutch newspaper,
T)e Tribune, thatf the British sank a
Dutch warship several weeks ago. Ac
cording to this report, the crew of the
man-of-war was sent to India to con
ceal news of the affair, and Great Brit
ain promised to pay damage.
BRITISH SUBMARINE
WAS DESTROYED.;
A CRUISER HIT
German Admiralty Tells of a Disaster
Suffered by Their Enemy Name
Cruiser is Not Known.
Berlin, by wireless, April 27. The
Germaut admiralty announred; to-day that
the WriUsii submarine E-2Z had been
sunk by German naval forces. The an
nouncement also says that a British
cruiser of the Arethus class was hit
by a torpedo from a German submarine.
crease
itrt-uL-iuiiuii in ni iniiuii. .miiu-iiraiiiiiK I . , . , , . . . ...... I
trouble Dr. Mead appealed to the sher- ""l,uu -' """"" chemical
if! department for protection and four "" n? D'Ha -f
deputies were fn the ground throughout tured in Ireland,
the day, but there was no disorder. Ihe Fiehtine is still eoinz on in the streets
of Dublin. Premier Asquith announced
in the House of Commons to-day that
the rebels continue to hold important jn turn notified the New York police.
public buildines and that the situation On trial with Fay are his hrother-in
urin ir-r-imy-kT-iT-v I cfill fireoenteit rinn fulling in-Anv I law, visiter SCholz, ann i am uaecne,
"A3 CjLKJK4U Wittig said he told Fay and Kchobs tha
in placing bombs on ships with wluc,
strikers crippled the foundry somewhat.
BILL SUNDAY
TABERNACLE BILL
engineer, if lie knew what
1500,000 was, and he replied that mon
ey was no object in this thing,
Wittig, who declared hisnympathies
in the war were with France told of
informing the Krenoh embassy of h
conversation with Fav. The embassy
with indications of a spread of the move-
Gov. McCall of Massachusetts Declared h"4 t0 0thr partS 0t IreUnd esPrially they were unfamiliar, they were "plac
to the west. I ing innocent people m jeiipardy.
The premier announced that Maior "Soholz declared," added the witness,
General Sir' John Maxwell, who formerly' "h thy knew what they were doing
Z ihat Max Brcitung was tiling them oi
That Subsitution of Wood for Fire
proof Material Would Increase
Danger in Boston.
Boston, April 27. A bill providing for
the erection without - compliance with
the city building laws of a tabernacle
for revival meetings by Billy Sunday
was vetoed by Governor McCall to-day.
In a message to the legislature the gov
ammunition was being
ernor explained that the substitution of the government is satisfied the force dis
commanaea tne rsnusn rorces in -cgypi, Urj,ioh ships
was leaving this afternoon for Ireland. Uhipped."
The general has been given plenary pow- Breitung also is under indictment for
ers over the whole country. Troops in thr Heged conspiracy,
Ireland have been and are being strongly
reinforced, Premier Asquith added, and PHELPS WATCHED
wood for fireproof materials, as pro
vided in the bill, would materially in
crease, danger from fire or panic
patched is sufficient to deal with the sit
uation. The Irish authorities will place
themselves at the disposal of Major Gen-
HIS WIFE MEET
CHARLES UTLEY
SOON TO BE RETIRED.
eral Maxwell, to carry out his instruc- The Next Day He Went from Cabot to
W.
AIRSHIPS OVER CONSTANTINOPLE.
Two Russian Fliers Went Over the City
Monday Night.
Paris, April 27. A Havas dispatch
from Athens says that it is reliably
stated there that two Russian hydro
aeroplanes operated over Constantinople
Monday night.
DOZEN BANKS AFFECTED.
But None Seriously in the Griswold &
McKinnon Failure.
St. Johnsbury, April 27. The credi
tors of Grisvold & McKinnon met yes
terday and appointed Jonas H. Brooks
and Harry Blodgett trustees to handle
the property and dispose of the stock
on hand. They have authority to mak-;
any arrangements about the continuance
of the business and it is thought that
bankruptcy proceedings will not be
brought against the concern. A statement
of the liabilities shows that the concern
lias outstanding debts of about $100,000.
The assets are $108,000. Liabilities of
$1 (i7.000 are distributed among 12 banks
in Vermont and New Hampshire, none
of which will be seriously affected.
NOT EXPECTED TO LIVE.
T.' Haigh of Brattleboro, Who Has
Given Distinguished Service.
8fc. Albans, April 27- Brigadier Gen
eral Lee 8. Tillotson, adjutant general
of the Vermont National Guard, will
issue an order soon announcing the re
tirement of W. T. Haigh of Barttleboro,
drum-major of the regiment with the
rank of captain.
Captain llaigh has had a unique mili
tary record, bolih in and out of th?
Vermont regiment. Before enlisting in
the v ermont . National Guard he was in
the Britjsh army from 1870 to 1876. He
served two years in Ireland and four in
India. He enlisted in Co. I of Brattle
boro in 1889. In February 1808 he was
elected captain of the company. May
16 he was mustered into the United
States service in the war with Spain.
In November of the same year he was
mustered out. In 1!K1 he resigned, be
ing on the retired list. In 1908 he re-
enlisted and was appointed drum-ma
jor which rank he held until April 1 of
this vear.
In 1864 Captain Haigh won the first
regiment prize for drill and markman-
ship in competitive drill at Fort Ethan
Allen.
Montpelier to Start Suit for Alleged
Alienation of Affections He Ad
mits She Furnished Him
Dates of Her Trysts
An introduction of evidence bv the dc
TO MEET IN ST. ALBANS.
tions.
Mr. Asquith said it was obviously nec
essary to exercise military censorship
while martial law prevailed in Ireland,
but this censorship would be directed
merely with regard to the essential mili
tary requirements of the situation. AH fendant bgan this forenoon in the alien-
possible latitude in the transmission of ation case of Frank C. Phelp vs. Charlc
news will be allowed. Ctley, which is being tried in county
coqrt. The plaintiff took the stand yes
wn we K.urrs oi me opposing ic- Umined thig f(r.noon. Thelns described
nons in ine inBn nome ruie controversy, his movements on November 2, 1915
expressed in the House of Commons to- hen he stationed himself in a field and
dav their abhorrence of the unrisin and watched I tley and bis wife. The fol-
their desire to .unnort th. vernm.nt IoinK day heW'companied by his wife,
. ,ii went to Montpelier and visited an at
The premier said there would be torney to start suit against the defend
searcning investigation into tne cause ant.
and the responsibility for the outbreak. Attorney Brown questioned him close
Answering a question whether the gov- about the collaboration of Mrs. Phelps
ernment was warned of the dangerous a(In;itt,P(1 tmlt ,he had furnishpd him
growth of the desition, Premier Asquith witn dates named in the specifications,
saia: "ine nrst ana paramount duty or when, it is alleged, she committed adult
the government is to restore order and ety with Mr. L'tley. He testified th.it
stamn out rebellion with all twM viir. ne na ins wne went over tne case witn
, ...
. . . , . ' . .. . ' ment of the trial. He said that his wife
senina tnat mere unaouoteaiy is an oo- trid ilim somfi ,,;, the dav tiev
ligation which rests upon the government came to Montpelier and later he learned
of makinz a searching investigation. I mnr information from her,
Burlington Child, Run Over by Automo
bile, Has Pressure on Brain.
Burlington, April 27. Harry Delorme,
tin- five-year-old son of Mr. and Mr.
Joseph iiel'irine of 2SI St. Paul street,
is iii m ku (iiinm iTinuiiiun at ine
.Mary Fletcher hof-pital and is not ex
pected to live, having been struck by a
!; car. dmeii by Frank K. Austin. At
li't one of the wheels of the heavy
machine pased over the little fellow's
i'iici. and he was struck insensible, from
which condition be is not expected to
rev-over. the accident, which appears
to be the result of unfortunate circum
stances is beinu investigated by State's
Attorney Hopkins.
WILSON AND STONE CONFER.
President Spent an Hour with the Sena
tor on German Situation.
Washington, 1. April 27. Presi
dent Wilson and Senator Stone, chair
man of the Senate foreign relations com
mittee, disused for an hour last night
international questions facing the United
States, inrlti'iiug the subntarine contro--.ery
with (remiany, the Mexican situa
tion and Japan's protect ag-jin't fea
ture' 'n tV H"ue immigratioB bill.
17th Annual Knights of Columbus Con-1
vention. I
St. Allans. April 27. The 17th annual
convention of the Vermont state eouncil,
Knights of Columbus, will be held in this
city May 7-9.
The opening session, Sunday, May 7.
will be held in the afternoon at 2:30
o'clock, at St. Mary's h.ll on Fairfield
street, when the first and second degrees
will be conferred.
Monday afternoon at 2:30 o'clock, at
Dowling's alley there will lie a bowling
match lietwoeii lleGoeshriand council. No.
279. of Burlington, and St. Albans coun
cil, No. 2H7. of St. Albans. In the even
ing at 8 o'cloi k at the city hall on North
Main street the third dfgree will he con
ferred. Immediately following this cere
mony a runquet will t served by the
women of St. Marv's parish in Ksgles'
hall.
At 8 o'chxk Tuesday morning dele
gates and members are to meet in
Knights of Columbus hall on North Main
street and march in a body to St. Mary's
churvh on Fairfield street, where they
will attend ma. At 10:30 oYlork at
the city hall the convention will be
opened. At 2:30 o clock automobiles w ill
be in readine- at the city ball to take
the visiting women on a sightseeing tour.
At 9 o'clock in the evening a ball will be
held at the city hall.
The headquarters of the convention
will be at the American hotie at the
corner of North Main and 1-ake streets.
Other accommodations may be obtained
at the Tavern and the Park View hotel.
The members of the committee in
charge are M. If. 0"H.-re. W. H. tiilw-ee,
r. E. Sullivan. F. W. Sault an J L E.
Bmc, secretary.
That obligation we fully recognize and
intend to discharge."
CALL CASEMENT
AN INSANE MAN
One British Newspaper Advocates Put
ting Him in An Insane Asylum He
is Reported as Saying that Irish
Uprising Will Fail Because
He is Captured.
Ixndn, April 27. Sir Roger Case
ment, it is reported, has expressed the
belief the Irish uprising would be a fail
ure on account of his capture. His lead
ership, he said, is necessary to the suc
cess of the movement. Several newspa
pers support the theory advanced bv A.
Earl B. Welch of Hardwick, a civil en
gineer, testified for the defendant to-day,
presenting a map of Cabot and vicinity,
showing the places where the alleged
meetings between Mrs. Phelps and l'tley
occurred. The effort of the defense was
then largely directed toward disproving
the contention of the plaintiff retarding
these alleged trysts by proving that Vt-
lev was far distant on the navs men
tioned. For instance, Robert Kitchie of
Greensboro Bend, a lumber manufactur
er, te-ftified that on Sept. 28, 1015. one of
the dates mentioned, l'tley called at his
shop and spent about three hours there.
Judge (. H. Iwna. of Woodburv was
another witness put on the stand to dis
IlLIltUII Oil l-VIII IMHIIII. Ol U HI U VMI"1 It, , , . ,
aul F. Wilson and was brought back to M?? v? rreCeded th.f ''T"' " I" nd
n , , , ., , . - nr...,;,,:! I mat e whs eonmiem; iimt Air. i-e-
iifunri u mi i i iuiicu itiui z uuiut. i t . 1111 t 1 a
Judge Arthur G. Whitham during the " V?1' B"'"
afternoon. After he had waived exam- " --v-ination
and was held for the next t.-m Mrs. Grace Cutler then favored the
f u-;,l,- t l, a :- assemuiy mi a vocal soio. .11. iiib ciki
until -this morning to furnish the $5,000 ' ' so!. r. J. W. Harnett of the
bail. LaRock was a brother-in-law of Congregational church was called upon
the dead man. The respondent was not welcome tne new pastor ana ins wn3
known to have had any feud with Wash- behalf of the ministers' union, lhis
burn, nor .was he supposed to be of a Mr. Barnett said he was glad to do and
quarrelsome disposition. It was thought "e lonowed his welcome witn a lew
by the state that he may have had words remarKs on me worn, oi a i.arre jinn
with Washburn and in a moment of "der in general. "Pastors in Barre,"
rage wielded an edging with which the said the doctor, "change so often as to
state will try to prove Washburn came keep the churches constantly stirred up,
to his deth. An operation was per- but perhaps tins is a good thing attcr
formed on Washburn's head at the Ran- all." He. expressed also the hope that
dolph sanatorium in an effort to remove Mr. Lehigh would be able to reach and
the pressure on the mans brain; but stir up some or those whom other men
even that was not considered as likely before him and his colleagues in the oth
to save the man's life. Washburn was er churches have failed to reach,
unconscious to the end. Other features of the program were a
Washburn was found near the Central (solo by Fred Inglis, a leading by Miss
Vermont railroad trark in this village Louise Partridge, a vocal solo bv Miss
at 7 o'clock yesterday morning by John I Catherine Young, and brief remarks by
wynn and l haries Morale, who were I pastors of other chunaes who werepres-
walking down the track toward the vil-lent, including Rev. W. J. M. Beattie of
lage. I the Church of the Good Shepherd, Kev.
hen an attempt was made yesterday Edgar Crossland of the Presbvterian
to communicate with State's Attorney church, Rev. B. G. Lipsky of the Meth
B. E. Cole of Windsor, it was found odist church. Rev. Piani of the Italian
that he was out of the state, and the Baptist mission at North Barre and Kev.
uatchelrter law nrm ot ttcthel was se- Kdwall of the Swedish Baptist cburch in
cured to look after the state's inter-j this city.
est at the hearing, while M. M. Wilson Mr. Lehigh responded feelingly to the
or Kandoiph appeared lor tne respond- welcome from his own church and from
ent. I the pastors as representing the other
churclats and stated that he should en
deavor in every way to co-operate with
the pastors of the other church socie
ties for the general good of the community.
following the program the receiving
For Deposit in Excess of $30,000 in Any line was formed, consisting of Kev. and
Mrs. 1'iani, Kev. and Mrs. kdwall and
1 lmrmm mm. m imn .
VUlh IU HIKt
A SECRETARY
Barre Board of Trade Took'
Important Action at !
- Annual Meeting -
NEW PRESIDE :
' ISW.G.F NOLDS
Annual Due five Dollars
Voted-, feting Was
Enthusiastic
CITY TO ASK BOND
ON SINKING FUND
One Bank Placing of $75,000 Still
Matter of Much Contention.
A new phase of the sinking fund nues
tion was introduced at a, special meeting
of the city council last night when a
resolution to require a bond for a por
tion of the fund was jammed through,
sfter an amendment quite as extreme in
ts tone as the original resolution was
turned down by an oral vote. Just
where the matter rests at the present
whether the bank that submitted tilekangements for the reception was made
highest bid for the $73,000 fund will con- " M"- , ' ;'.um"'
sent to furnish a bond, for any part of Bradley, Mrs. Aiden Grearson, Mrs Ired
tha fnnJ urearson, airs. n. ii. .uaxueia, Aiueri
Discussion of the fund was precipitated Jones vuiney erry ana iiarry i.raoiey
when Alderman Healy quoted the om
Rev, and Mrs. Lehigh, and the members
of the congregation were presented to
the new pastor ami his wife. Mr. and
Mrs. II. H. Maxtield, Mr. and Mrs. Quin-
cy Perry, Miss Kthel Inglis and Claude
Partridge acted as ushers. A light
luncheon of punch and wafers was
served at the close of the evening and
a few moments of social good time were
enjoyed before the comiany began to
break up,
The committee in charge of the ar-
At tlie adjourned annual meeting of
the Barre Board of Trade, which-wa
held in the granite manufacturers' rooms
in the C. W. Ayerill block last evening,
the election of officers was carried out
and a further distinct, impetus to the re
organization of the body was given by a
decision to engage a paid secretary dur
ing the coming year, lhere was a good'
attendance, and the enthusiasm mani
fested was very noticeable as well as
gratifying. The officers apparently aru
determined to make the Board of Trada
an efficient and influential power in this
community for civil betterment, both,
commercially and otherwise, and 'ill as- .
ist as tar as possible m the general up
ift, convenience and prosperity of the
citizens of Barre. .
The officers were elected as follows;
President W. G. Reynolds. ,
Vice-president D. J. Morse.
Treasurer H. G. Woodruff.
Auditor C. M. Willey.
Clerk and secretary H. A. Phelps.
Directors F. D. Ladd, B. W. Hooker,
J. P. Corskie, B. Luchini, A. P. Abbott,
James V. Marnon, It. G. Robinson and
It. varnum.
The vote to employ a paid secretary
was unanimous, and it is confidently ex
pected that through this medium a great '
eal can be accomplished. As a tem
porary nmmgement until such time us a
permanent secretary is found, if. A.
'helps will act as secretary, with office
nd headquarters at rooms 4 Riid 5, Miles
block. Mr. Phelps will be glad to have
nvone call at his office, or write or tele
phone him in reference to the Board of
Trade work or business.
The directors recommended, and th
meeting voted, the annual dues for loifl
to be five dollars for each member, tho.
same being due on or before June 18 of
the current year. It was also recom
mended by the directors and voted by
the meeting that all unpaid dues assessed
prior to the year 1916 be remitted. This
wipes out all unpaid dues prior to tho
191 B assessment, so the organization anil
members will start the fiscal year 101(1 ,
with a clean slate financially.
It is the hope and the wiwh of thi
officers that the Barre Board of Trade, as
now organized, will receive the imquali
fied support of all the members, together
with the support of this entire commu
nity. In this way the board should b
enabled to merit the success which i
hoped for and gain the confidence it de
serves in the community hnd among ths
citizens it aims to serve.
45 SOUGHT CITIZENSHIP
At Busy Session of U. S. Court Held irf
Barre.
At the refreshment table. Miss Ruth
ials of the Barre Savings Bank St Trust I'erry, Miss Pinkie Lew is. Miss Dorothy
Co.' as Saving that thev were ready toMP" and -miss ixmise ranruige assisi-
stand bv their offer of April II. On d in serving the puncli.
the previrfus night Alderman Healy, re
iewing the extended consideration which
the fund had received, suggested that
the Quarry Svings lank be requested
to retain the fund until July 1 in order!
to give the Barre Savings bank an op
portunity to make arrangements for re
ceiving the money. The reply from the!
DELIGHTFUL ENTERTAINMENT.
For the Junior Choir Members of St.
Monica's Church.
The junior choir members of St. Mon
ica s church enjoyed a very pleasant
evening ax the Convent ot tne acn-d
to ecv-
i.i,, . i r.
day morning, indicated that the bankers Lhe Nw j, 1)immund j)isc ,,hono.
graph, the members were pleasantly sur
prised by the appearanre ot some of
Barre s favorite singers, w ho rendered
several vocal selections, making the
evenme a memorable one tor all. 1 lie
bank, following a meeting of the direc- H ,Mt ni M After listening i
tors reported to have been held ednes- pra, jnstnm.ntlil aml voca, iw.ti
ay morning, imncaieu mat me oanKersi
re willing to take over the $75,000 May
as stipulated in the communication
opened by the council April 11.
ihe next development came when
Chairman Glvsson of the finance com
mittee introduced a resolution the sub-
anee of which follows:
st
event of the city having at any time a
sum of money in excess of $30,000 on dc
posit in anr one bank, said bank shall be
required to give a bond for said sum in
excess of the-f.10.OIN), the. bond to be ap
proved bv tbe citv council. ith the
reading of the resolution, a motion was
made and seconded for its adoption.
whereupon Alderman Kossi aked leave
t
"That in the Jfesta of honor were Mr. and Mis.
garding the alleged meetings and be had
not been released from the stand when
court took a recess for noon. Judse
hna is town treasurer of Woodburv.
and he testified that l'tley came to his
nfnee fnr fhe niirnn rf iiimhh . ..a ..n
Conan Doyle a year ago. that Sir K -ger (kt. ,9,5, ,nMher of th't- ditcj men-
is insane, ine vtesiminsier t.azett ad- tioncl in the allegation.
uciea putcing aim in a lunatic asylum.
The men connected with the filibuster
ing expedition mw in the hands of the
government are Sir Roper Casement, two
Irih confederates and 22 (rmin com
prising the crew. The chief importance
of their capture lies in the revelations
made of an extensive plot having ramiti
cation in Germ
nrove the contention of the tilmntilT re- the original draft a provision whereby
1 anv na 11k snail iiirnisn a nona tor
TO PUBLISH DAILY PAPER.
St. Johnsbury Caledonian io Begin New
Venture May 1.
St. Johnsburv, April 27. The falc-
J . i .1 ... : . .. -r 1 . . ,
ny, Ireland and Aiwr-r""1." imi.im, m omen i. .1. mgr-
tow- is editor and publiidier, annnuei-c
that beginning May I a morning daily
will be published from that office. Kdito'r
Kigelow- has had cooMderahle evperiem-e
in the daily newspaper field, harms been
km. Irish-Americans are said to have
been larjrely instrumental in financing
the revolutionary movement.
The expedition consisted merely of a
submarine and a l.loO ton steamer w hi h
approach tbe on-t at different point . j employed for some years on the editorial
Cement and his companions landed injs'a'r of the liurlinptoti Free pre just
a row boat from the submarine. When 'prior to purchaing the plant of the Su
arretted. Casement is rrpirted to ha JohnolHiry Caledoniaa, a werkly news
maintained a gd fron and apparent! paper.
James Bennett and Mrs. A. C. Moore.
The following program was remien-d
by the choir: Sonj;. "Face to Face,"
Stella Cook; piano solo, "The Mountain
Stream," Clement McMahon; song "A
Perfect Day," luis O'learv; piano solo.
"Palms," Charles Bianchi; sonir. select
ed. IVoris Burke; violin silo. "Fancies,"
John McMahon; piano solo, "The tlmrg?
amend. His amendment went farther of the Hussars. Beatrice Papin; Chili
an the resolution by incorporating in ble quartet. "The Stream." jvsmond
.Maikie. Mildred titzgcraM. Kathleen
Fitzgerald, Ksther Rooney. Heatrii-e Pa
pin. Stella Cook, Doris Iturke, Franis
Nelson.
The piano accompanists of the even
ing were Mrs. James Bennett, Miss lxir
aine Ixiranjrcr and Miss Kathleen
0'Ieary. The phonograph in use for
the occasion was kindly loaned by K. A.
Drown.
nv bank shall furnish a bond for any
sum of money deposited by the city aft
er the money has been on deposit for a
year, the bond to equal the money de
posited. On the amendment Aldermen
Glvsson. Healy, Shurtleft and Bruce and
Mayor Gordon voted in oppositon. Alder
men Rossi and Reynolds being the only
ones to support it. Three opposing votes
were registered against the resolution as
originally presented. Aldermen Healy,
Reynolds and Roi voting in the nega
tive on its adoption, while Mayor Gor
don. Aldermen (.lyswin, Bruce and Shurt
left" brought about its adoption.
Results of the meeting of the alder
manic committee of the whole, which
was held at the corner of Merchant and
Probate Court Actions.
In probate court to-day. the will of C.
W. liiieniieT, lae of Montpelier. wis
presenied for probate. Samuel K. King
ston of Northfield was appointed admin
istrator of the estate of William 1.
Kintr-ton. late of NorthiieM. Mrs. Kl-
Clerk F. S. Piatt and his attaches ter
minated a busy session of United Statea
naturalization court 1st city ball lasb
night, 10 candidates applying for papers
of the first class, while 28 applicants re
ceived their second papers. It was tho
first session to be held in Barre in sev
eral months and the responses were un
usually numerous. It is expected that
Judge H. B. Howe will preside over a ses
sion of court at the capital in the near
future, when applicants heard last, nighb
will receive their final papers. Yester
day's session, beginning at 10 o'clock in.
the forenoon, did not adjourn until 10
o'clock in the evening.
First papers were granted as follows:'
John F. Booth, Scotland: Renzo Csntu,
Italy; Ncreo.Cardini. Italy; Milziadi Ci
ampi, Italy; Achille Corti, Italy; Giinnsi"
F.rickson. Sweden; Knrico Lange, Italy;
James McDonald, Scotland; Alexander1
McKinnon. Scotland; Anthon T. Mickle
sen. Ilenmark; George C. Norrie, Scot
land; Antonio Perojo, Spain: Georea
Rennie, Scotland; Ambropin Seampini,
Italv; Joseph Tarelli, Italv; I-conardoj
Touint. Italy; .Jhmim Travers, Provinc
of Quelii-c; Krnest Letourneny, Provincd
of Queliec; Alexander Hennis, Provim-n
of Queliec. All of the applicants resida
in Barre.
Barre is the residence clsimed bv every!
applicant in the followinjr list, of thosa
who received second papers: James An
drew, Scotland: Antonio Bernaseoni,
Italy; Ginseppi Berini. Italy; Nicola S4
D'Atrostino. Italy; Anton Krickson, Fins
land; Guido Fontana. Italy; Luis Fons
tana, Italy; James Intrram. Scotlard
Alexander J. Kirton. Scotland; James V,
Jjiing. Scotland; Knok Ijiine, Finlsnd;'
John Iofti. Italy; lwrenee Marshall,
Scotland: James R. McDonald, Scot hind;
John McDonald, Scotland; James J. Mo
Tiguc, Ireland; George A. Milne, Scot
land: James ;. furray, Scotland; Karl
A. Ulscn. Sweden: Armando Papozr.ini,
Italy: Krnesto Fasetto. Italy; Arthur
W. Pirie. Scotland; Angelo A ruricelli,
Italy; Calivte Simonciu. Province of
Quelec; trank G. Wilson. Scotland; Wils
liam A. Wright. Troince of yuehso.
North Vain afreets in the aftemoo. w.r. Hen lnier of Montr lic-r was app'ini-
instructed to confer with the citv attor
ney in regard to etablihini a building
line on the east side of North Main
street from Brook street to the Wash-
ALLEGED LICENSE GRAF1.
Tbe Authorities Are Investigating Storie j
in WinooskL
Winooki. April 27. Town Grand Jnrs
or D. K. iiliian and State's Attorney
Hokins had a consultation ve-teriUv alts
ernoon relative to storns of allcced grat(
suiting the Ii.-en commissioner in givs
me out li'-eiiM's this jtur. A bearing
w ill wNo I held, it i expe, ted. w it hin a
j few days, before tlie side j-ides. Many
1 mmor s.f cralt are enrrrtit &i t.ranl
ed administratrix and Irank X. Sir. th 1. ,,r,T o'Sullisan savs tW stories des
and James M. Healey. both of Mnitl- ! an inc't'g;.it imn. One st.-ry is
ier, were appointed appraiser and coin- i,,t a li.Tn-e comnn-i.ier told an" aps
initio,,,-, - ,.1 r-i.ir i'i iiarriri - ti i rani 1 Fiat lie evps.tcl more trom turn
inrton street intersection. The question j Colby, late, of Montpelier. A I..-. n-- to t'in from the re-t of ttte arpiwants
of whether A. Toniasi will be permitted ; 1 r"l -t!e was' frantel f AJth j ir.j t'ijt t'.ry were -ail c-mm' a ross
t eiitend Lis. store fronts bangs in the Thayer, evecutrix of tiie will of Weil- Thi-aipli.-art.it is a!!.-e 1. !:.! n,.t com
lailanee and the street committee has man P. Thayer, Ute of Warrra. a an 1 he did not ftt a 1kte,
