jfke ifueuineari Jlews
O'O'O'O'O'O'0-0'0-0'0-0-O'tt'O
l,rMit rif"'-"
o-o-o-o-o-o-o-o-o-o-o-o-fl-o-o-o
0'0'0'0'00'0-0'0'0'0'0-o-o;0'n
Admtliera Know Where to
Place Their Ads
O'OO-O.O.O'O'O.O-O-O-O-O-O'O-O
AND TUCUMCARI TIMES
VOL. XIV.
TUCUMCAKI, QUAY COUNTY. NEW MEXICO, THURSDAY. APRIL 27. lOHi
NO. 31
MONTOYA ORGANIZES
A DEMOCRATIC CLUB
-MUCH ENTHUSIASM
Eight ears of Democrat drove down i
o Montoya Monday evening and par
ticipntcd in tho organization of a dem
crntlc club. The cars left here from
't'lO to 7:00 and Home went down on
o. 1, arriving there in time to attend
he meeting.
The meeting was held in the school
' ouse and was called to order by that
nve wire, Albert Calif ch, who made a
hort address stating the purpose of
rganizing the club. He .said the Mon
ya club would work in harmony with
he other clubs of the county, now or
v iuil.eti and to be organized in the
i ear futuie.
Mr. Callsch nominated one of Mon
: jyn's leading young men, John I).
' homnsou, us president of the club,
lis selection was made unanimous.
. udgc Gomez wns chosen vice presi-
cut;; Dr. Jackson Treasurer; W. C.
: impson, Seeiotnry. It was then mov
i I that Isaac Kirkpatrick of Tueum-
iri be chosen iutcrprctor for the tw
ining. This motion passed with the
usual vote.
The membership paper was then
;nsscd around anil about 23 Montoya
Democrats signed it. Mr. Calisch said
i hat they would easily double that
i' timber in membership.
Olllcers of the Tucumcari ilub were
i mile honorary members. No other
s iceiul business coming before the club
: number called on Judge ('ut)ip to
pen the oratorical contest. He spoke
.n his usual pleasing manner, tracini:
ack the political history of Quay conn
y and New Mexico, when the plains
..ml valleys were uninhabited except
y snukes, jack rabbits, prairie dogs
ml buffalo. At this juncture he pour-
d red-hot shot into the late Rcpuhli
an legislature, saying they had put
rotcctioi) on rabbits and prairie dogs
nstcad of encouraging their total anl
! Nation from the fertile soil of Quay
ounty. He unid they arc how prom
ising reform, but they have been in
lower in New Mexico ever since he
an remember ami if the Republicans
I ke the rabbits, prairie dogs and coy
etes better than the common masses
; ml homesteaders, we cannot expect
to secure much reform or much of a
i hangc in the state laws. He then
.ncidcntully dropped a word about his
audidncy for district attorney and
undo a few promises most f us would
oe glad to see fulfilled.
Felipe Sanchez then addressed the
audience in Spanish (without an inter
i rotor), anil from the way those who
inderstood. encored, his speech was
highly enjoyed. After talking for a
i'uw minutes on uationnl politics he
turned his attention to the local can
didates and when speaking to the slier
tll'V race he said Unit he was in favor
. f sending all the candidnto-for sheriff
i own to old M'MCo and the one who
i aptured Villa would be the choice for
horiff. Some r,f a- thought he. wns
inging a song he spoke so fluently
i.iul smoothly. Inf. the Spanish lun
uuge is mu-ical and much easier , to
peak than 'he English, when you
I now how.
Pablo Gomez thanked Mr. Sanchc.
for his complimentary mention and
npport in bringing prc.s.urc to luai
i pon he (.Mr. Gomez) to make the
ace foi representative fioin Quay
i ounty to the state legislature. He
aid he would do everything an honest
man could do to work for the inter
ests of Quay county and the whole
State.
C. C. Davidson was called upon to
MUike a speech, and he gave the now
irganlzatlou a few good points on
vhat party organization meant and
uggested that the clubs should se
ure literature relating to what Demo--racy
and other political parties stood
or, to distribute same during the coni
ng campaign. He asked them not to
xpect political speakers to como to i
our community and teach anything. ;
'iut tho progressive people read and
tudy for themselves. Good speeches
mule by the leaders arc worth read-
'arefully and their interpretations of
I ve topics will prove beneficial to those
ho desire light on any subject.. He
aid party organizations tend to got
III piiriy orKllliir.lliiiiiin ivim hi kwukiiiu iihi.ii ,uwii nm in. .11. . iuii umi .uwi-
ut the full vote, especially tho e who , day night at the dance given at the
ako llttlu interest in the business at -
airs of the nation, state and county,
he stny-at-homo" kind. The clubs
Jiould take a poll of their precincts,
md bo in shape to tell tho county
organization whore to work and assist
n doing thnt duty in the community,
.uul pnrty. Uphold your presidont in
lis difficult task during serious crisis
ike ho has been up against at various
imes during the past mice years.
A. L. Zlnn spoke in behalf of the
zoung democrats of Tucumcari and
oxplnlned the meaning of Democracy
iy saying It meant sunrise, not sun
et. Judge Saxon mndo plea for the parly
'.o chooso tho best men to fill the sev
eral offices. He wants competentoncy.
honesty ami t;lllciciicy to take the place
of "rough-neck" politics He uompll
mented the excellent men selected Inst
election to fill the different county of
fices and said that standard should be
kept up by the voters of Quay county.
He finished by comparing the demo
crats and rupublicaus now holding the
offices of the State, showing whnt one
did do and did not do and how they
would have done if Gov. McDonald had
not used his veto fountain pen.
At a late hour the mettlng was nv
: i i .i... t II. I.
jwiiiiivii nun mi- im.in.iuin iii-ivkii wun i
st'M ted Home, .'some of the cars came
through in record-breaking time, hut
others had trouble and did not arrive
until late that night. All enjoyed their
stay in Montoya and were glad to be
able to meet with such a pleasant citi
zenship and hope to enjoy a visit from
the Montoya Democracy.
IU5V. TAYLOR JtESJti.NS
Rev. Sam D. Taylor, who has been
pastor of the First Haptisl church in
this city has handed in his resigna
tion to the members of his congrega
tion. He has made many friends dur
his stay in Tucumcari and the follow
ing copy of the resignation fully ex
plains why he is leaving this pastorale
and was handed to the Haptist church
by Mr. Taylor Wednesday evening.
April It):
To the First Haptist Church of
Tucumcari, GREETING:
It has been one year since we came
to you to be your pastor, leader and
servunt. The manner in which wo
have pastoral, lend and served, we
leave for you to sny; we only wish
to suy we have done our beat.
Hut as to the church we want to say
with all our hearts we have found in
you. with the very few exceptions,
that is found in every church, a very
loyal, zealous and faithful people. So
much have we learned to love you
that it is no easy task to offer you
this document. We have learned to
love the church here so much and her
interests nre so closely knitted to our
henrts that we do not expect them to
die out in us, but wherever we go our
thoughts, our prayers and our hopes
will continually go out for her. Hut
we believe the woodman who takes the
time to grind his axe in the morning
will fell the greatest number of trees
in the day, and the man who mnkes the
most preparation m early life will be
able to serve his God and fellow-man
most during his time. So it has be
come our purpose, the Lord willing,
to enter the Southwestern Haptist The
ological Seminary at Ft. Worth, Texas
for better equipment for the Master's
service.
Therefore, with heaviness of heart
and sincere prayer for your future
welfare and progress, we hand you
this our resignation to become effect
ive June 1. 11 10.
SAM D. TAYLOR. Pastor
ENTERTAINED
i in of the most pleasing entertain
ments of the season was given at Nor
ton Saturday night, the 22nd. Mr. and
.Mir. De Roy Welsh being the guests
of honor. C. F. Murdcn with his
urnphapltonc furnished the musical
Mid humorous part of the program,
which was interspemed with convor
ation. speeches and a bountiful and
delicious repast such as the ladies of
Norton know so well how to prepare.
! The speeches too soulful to be class-
eil as "speeches"--were ly C. F. Mar
den, Orville Douerghty, J. H. Thurston,
J. L. Howerman and Renwlck Hell.
Mr. and Mrs. Welsh responded.
De Roy and Mrs. Wehih will long
remember this as one of tho happiest
evenings spent in New Mexico, and
will carry with them to their future
home in Panama many tender memo
ries of the friends left at Norton.
YEOMAN TO (JIVE DANCE
The Yeoman lodge will give their
Second Annual Hall at the opera house
May ID. Those in charge of the mu
sical part have secured the services
of the New Theatre orchestra, which
gave such good satisfaction last Mon
1 opera house. This dancr of
i the best and most pleasing events of
the season and a large attendance is
anticipated. Watch for future an
nouncements. PRESBYTERIAN CHURCH
There will he the usual services at
the Presbvterian church next Sunday
llt . , and 7:4fi p. m conducted
i ,v the pastor.
In the morning tho subject will bo
'God's Care, and God's Call."
At the evening hour there will bu
an illustrated lecture, "The Cross and
the Crescent," which promises to be
especially interesting.
Sunday School, 10 a, m.
Christina Endeavor Society, 7 p. m.
JOIN THE ASSOCIATION
Taxpayers in UiIh section who have
not joined the Taxpayers' Association
of Now Mexico should secure copio
of thu New Mexico Tax Review ami
read there the work which the associa
tion ha undertaken for New Mexico
and which is now making notable pio
gress. In the April number ju t in-,
htiod Director A. E. James gives IiIh ,
first compieheiiHive statement of the
state finances made as a part of his j
financial survey of public finance and ,
administration in en Mexico. It., Davidson, filed an application for 1,10 u''1- "'Elaine S in Davoiahs Hu
is a simple statement of the receipts mandamuF against Joseph Israel to ! morosquc. he also made a hit. while
of the tate auditoi made in a way compel a recount of votes of the re-',m' one-step Sweetheart times took
which can iu readil.x understood by tent cty ,.octlon. The court refused . tllt' Ih,1,s'-' hv "lorm and required the
every reader, whether he is a flnnn- n,j thereupon an application for a wd encore before they had enough,
cial expert or not, and it is pi nimbly i Writ ,f ()U Warranto, together with' Mr Hurley at the piano, was as
the first time that such a statement application for leave to file same was I"-"1"' ,i,n-' nd expression as is
of public llnance has ever been mndo pjesented and hearing orr the said np- Plho ami wa welcomed back to
in New Mexico. There is no criticism , plication was set for Muv 8 at Raton, position,
of the existing system or of any pub.t which time Joe Israefhy his attot- M- Chambers' work with the drums
lie oiiiccr. uciuci w nitre iney e.Msv
are clearly pointed out and then sim
ply stated, and Mr. James reaches the
natural .conclusion that New Mexico
needs a state budget system in place 1
of what he terms. "Thu well intended
. . .
uui cumoersome ami more or less
workab o Hateman Act."
irkablu Hateman Act."
It is becoming clear that the tax-'.
yore' association is going to stick .
iictly to its knitting and to the pur-
payers
strictly
pose that it was organized last Sep
tomber: that is, to find out first what (
conditions actually are in New Mexico,
before offering remedies. Working
with absolute freedom from politics
or political control and under the dl-
recuon oi morougniy eiiicieni men.. ,,,., (iut it promiss t0 become! an ex
ilic Taxpayers Association of New pi.,isive experience to both sides and
Mexico H not only in a position to io notliini? to be gained in the long run
but is actually doing work or the great , which will be of henetit to the citv o
est value to the state and to every in-1 citizens.
dividual taxpayer. The association I i, u hinoii the nmttee will be set.
merits and should have every taxpay
ers netivc support.
PHILHARMONIC CONCERT
The Philharmonic Concert, held at,
the Opera House tongiht was a gntnl
success. The singing unit special niu-
hie. such as vocal solos and violin so.:,ul(i fix tlt.m U) for lhc va.,.k wu,
los were the best heard in Tucumcari ! wi Hjow tlcm t0 )l0 rtst.,i. A lriel
for many a day and Re-.. Hoering i ok-ction law, making it the duty or
rorves much credit for this musica! , ,.ac, VHt(sr t0 .t. tjint , is pi.()pt.,iv
treat. The visitors from El Paso woi; nifjHtcrt.( would do away with a cor
vocal artist, and the local talent win tj(in mo,u f crookedness and mis
much better thnii most of our citizen? takes.
nail anticipateit. nio isews nopes m;
give a longer writeup next week.
SILAS W. HODGES
OF PUERTO, DIES
OF PNEUMONIA
I'ncle Silas W. Hodges, one of our
oldest and most respected citizen.-,
died Wednesday at his home item
Puerto, from thnt dreaded disease,
pneumonia. His funeral was held oti
! ! At-( I. .1 . . 1
the presence of a large concourse of
sorrowing neighbors and friends, and
the body laid to rest in the local
cemetery.
Mr. nouges. win ins eruuiao.e ia.n-
.y, nas oeen a rcaiuuiu oi vuay coun-
y for many years and owned one d
he nicest improved farms in the conn-
-". . m J""
i . i i. ui u"
short visit with his parents, when thu
liuner was iukiiii nn:u. .ir. iiuum--,
was an ambitious old gentleman, be
ing nearly 82 years old, anil work lianl
i ' u i il iTni tVi I., hi I
ditch. He took sick that n ght an.
..11 .Int. I.tcl l.-I.lfi f.lr.iitilil.r in il
gnuiuany grew worse, oy.og i.ve
later
Mr. Hodges, had many friends in
Tucumcari as well as all over tho
. , ., - ., . I
county and the fiim yj.ave the sy n-
pnthy of all in this their sad bereave
ment. The News will be glad to pub
lish the obituary next week.
WOODARI) JOHNSON
Married, at the residence of tho
bride's parents, Mr. and Mrs. G. IL
. i f r
oouimis. near uarancos, ev. ... u.
ijiiiiges, oi luuuinn ii. " ""; "
Ann o.'livl. lMfi. Miss Hessic Wood-
....... - -
ard to Mr. l-rank Johnson ot Tucir -
enri. I
The ceremony was attended by a
tew relatives nnd friends as the young
couple are both well anil favorably i
known. I
Mr. and Mis. Johnson have gnno'
to Texas on an extended wedding trip
and will return to Quay county to .
make their future home. I he New
joins the many friends in wishing thu
n - .- " ,
newly weds a life of prosperity and
nuppiness.
Floyd Wayne came in last night for
a few days' visit with his parents, Mr.
and Mrs. T. A. Wayne. Floyd has
been In San Antonio, Texas for tho
INISI vein in inu iiisiii iiiiv.1' inininvcni
i !.. i.i i .. . i.... -'..I I
ami is on u.s way in i.ns nngcie, viu.
whore he has accepted a similar po
sition. Joe Alioyta and family left this week
for Greoly. Colo., where they will
spend the summer. Jim Alarcon will
continue the business of Mr. Abeyta
as a stone mason and adobe layer.
Phone 22 and tell us about your vis
itors, nnd where you've been visiting.
WOFFORD CONTESTS
CITY ELECTION-DEMANDS
A RECOUNT
Hei.n .)
U'oirnid. through In, m.
torm.Vh. ( rnmoton. Kcmlcv. I'hilliii
,,.. .. i.-nt i.n,l llni .-v II t. ,
b Iroy will uppenr and answer to the 1
eider.
The notification to Mr. lnael lead-
about as follows. You are herebv no
hii,.,i ... i..... i...e
l" ri"-' ''. '" uuukv
un-.iL,n, t0 sh0,v eause if anv there be
W)V ieuvt. j,i,ou, ,10i )0 grnnted to ,
lnu' tlj( (;L.0i Hcmley, district at- '
umuy, to file information against vou !
j this court. ' '
It was also ordered that tho citv!"f the extras was beyond (Uicstion.
..i,., i... ,.mmen.le! in mm m-nr the
i1I,nflt, ,n ,.,,te ,.(t, n i l'!,,,.,,,,,,
This is the beginning of a lawsuit.
perhaps, and it is possible that Judge
0, wm ,Kpo,e f it Mm(1 nmn
tied satisfactory and the council and
mayor get together on the public lu
tie and business.
There were some irregularities in
the city election and there always will
be so long as the election laws allow
,.,.,.,
(null in tnwn tn neiblle tiekets
, v ,. , e Woiford's de-
1 ire to enter a contest anu tie lias .o
i stated that he was perfectly satisfied
i and would not be a party to a contest
I 1 ... .1...- 1.
inn inert ii 1 1; uiiirr. vmiu nil- m-'ivini-
' ined to eitlier rule or ruin and they
no doubt are putting up the money
1 to back up their desires. This spirit
; is not right and if this contest end
at- abruptly as thine gone on before.
it will be only a matter ot history
and our citizens allowed to put forth
their efforts in some other way to a
sist in the upbuilding of Tucumcari
and surrounding vicinity.
J. E. JOHNSON FOR CLERK
In the regular announcement col
umn this week appears the name oi
J. E. Johnson, of Logan, as a candidate
U
omocl.at8 nf lmy county for their
Iist.istim,.,. , ti1(. nomination
, . . f.. .
Mr. Johnson is well known through
, (Ut the (.0Ul( t,n)cdMy to the lead-
, politicians, and i.s lecognized as a
' well-fitted for the office to which
, , ,s ,fl , d ,u..
longs to the class of citizenship that
work for the upbuilding of any com
mmj. . whlu'n th j,,
a worthy opponent of our fellow towns
men niu! will keep the clerk s office
.... ... :., ........... I l.i..l, U'
i 1 .
nom nated and electel.
Such mon m M(. Iolu)SOIl va,
ui,kt twvi (() Vi am, Mfl
iniitiy friends are working hard to
land the nomination for him, but the
contest is honorable and good-natured
VI,IIIU.L I.s lllllltll IIIMV I fiuuii-iiiiinin
)in(, jf ,u. ,oS(,s jt wjl ,ake ((1V h
coat and work for the man who wins.
The big plate glass window, which
was broken out of the Sands-Dorsey
Drug Store lecently, was replarcd
with a new one Wednesday.
T)C C0Bt of KUM,uni. hM superseded
, the price of hay as a topic or rural
anxiety
Henry Ford and Col. Hryan will di
vide their pence forces between Chi
cago and St. Louis.
That Roosevelt cabinet slate- Lodge
Gardner and Haeon- - reads like a Har
vard alumni dinner list.
Marguerite Clark and Mary Pick
i ninl.lu i I.., j,,.,,, ,,,l ,lft rrt
. fold are ninids to l,e seen and not to
..............
Some married men go around hair
i dressed because it takes too much to
dress their wives.
Gen. Smuts ought to be good for
work in the Dm- kCoutinent.
You have noticed of course, that
"the chap" who claims to take u bath
every morning doesn't look- to be anv
cleaner than the rest of us.
Some prophet announces that A pi i
is to be a "trying month" and wo hope
he is right and that a whole lot of
the season. big crop of criminals
will get theirs.
EASTER MON'hAY HALL
The Knte Monday Hall given bv
the New Theatre Ore bos tin. was one
"f the most notable a Hairs ever given
in Tiuuimcari for some lime.
The music furnished was selected
with groat care and taste and assures
the future iitco" of the New Theatre
Oirhostiu.
Among the most popular numbers
were the Perfect Duy waltz, by Carrie
.ineons Ilond ill which Mr. Chambers
made a decided hit with the bells. In
and neils needs no commen as a; a
w,.v-" "inl'1'- good,
The work of that expert vocal and
instrumental mu-ician. Hobt. Burnet,
'h' feature of the evening. He
i- there with tho i.r.u- mi, I i nnveu li.v
-
' ploai-e the diincer-.
,r- George Quinlun as floor mai
i'"r- hud very little to occupy his tl
!" everything went Mr without a ,
hiy and his judgment in the select
time
de-
election
I'he ball opened at o'clock and
osed promptly at 111 p. m. and was
decided success from every point of
lew. linrty-tive couple participated
in the dance, while there were many
pectators, and all reported a most
njnyable time. Punch was served bv
Masters Parri-h and Gibson, who scrv-
il in a like capacity at the Trainmen's
lull. There were numerous beautiful
osrnme-. among which were the fol
lowing:
Mrs. II. II. Jonos. blue satin: Mr-.
las. Conwell. old rose crepe de chine;
Wm. Handle, blue silk and white
lace; Mrs. J. Eitzen. green satin and
jet; Miss Rosenthal, white chiffon and
Jack velvet: Miss Murphy, embroider
ed pink linen; Mrs. L. R. Jacobs, green
iepe de chene; Miss Koch, lavender
oigandie; Mis Hell, white organdie
and rose silk; Misses Leonard, yellow
ilk: Miss Shall, white voile; Mish Ag
nes Home of Cuervo, green silk and
white lace; Miss Hadlock of Cuervo,
black silk; Mhs Haer of Santa Rosa
ellow satin.
A NIGHT PROWLER
ATTEMPTS TO ENTER
night prowler was in the neigh
borhood of Mr. Sandusky's last Mon
day night and was frightened away
in time In save serious trouble.
It seems thnt Miss Minnette ami
lelf Harrison had just returned homf
from the picture show and Mr. Har-
risnn departed for his home, wher,
Miss Mionette heard someone at her
bed-room window. She immediately
turned out the light and looked out
of the window. She saw a mnn try
ing to get in. She ran for the closet
and shut herself inside.
Mr. Sandusky had been to the Elks
Club and returned in time to see the
man start to enter the house by the
front door. He passed on by the house
as though he did not live there und
watched tho man to see what he in
tended to do. The man stopped otf
the porch and walked toward the rear
of the house. Mr. Sandusky returned
tn the house and entered the front
door, going through and coming out
of the back door. The man was then
making tracks for the back fence. Hi
hail no trouble getting over the high
board fence, and when Mr. Sandusky
got back to tho fence, the man was
nearly a block away going north up
the alley.
The purpose of this man is unknown
but it could not have been for any goot
and if he had been caught the working
of the law is too slow to mete out
justice to such a cur.
RURAL CARRIER EXAMINATIONS
The United States Civil Ser.lce
Commission has announced an exam
ination for the County of Quay, N
M., to be held at Tucumcari on May
U7, 11)10. to fill the position of rura
carrier at San Jon. nnd vacancies
that may later occur on rural route
from other post offices In the nbovc
mentioned county. The examination
will be open only to mnle cltlzcnc who
are actually domiciled in the territory
of a post office in the county and who
meet the other requirements set forth
In Form No. 1U77. This form ami np
plication blanks may be obtained from
tho offices mentioned above or from
tho United States Civil Service Com
mission at Washington, I). C. Appli
cations should be forwarded to the
Commission at Washington at the ent
best practicable date.
Tl.TU.MCA III WINS (I!) TO 0
In the illimiimtion contests at Al
biuiuei'fiue tonight the Tucumcari team
won its first game with Dexter or
Santa Fi by a score of 00 to 0, This
inits them in the race for the chain
pinnshlp contests Friday.
SANDUSKY RESIDENCE
HARRY L BOON DIES
SATURDAY NIGHT AT
MINERAL WELLS
Tucumcari has lost another citizen
in the person of Harry L. Hoon. one
of our most respected lawyers, who
died Saturday night. April 22, at Min
eral Wells, Texas, where he had gone
in hopes of regaining his former gooI
health.
Some few weeks ago Mr. Hoon wn?
found to I In a serious condition, suf
fering froif kidney trouble or Heights
disease. II physician recommended
that he go . the springs as a last re
sort, that It 'light do him good. Hint
perhaps benc.t his health. lie had n
good law practice, nnd like most men.
kept putting olT tho trip, but finally
was forced to leave his business and
hurry to Mineral Wells. The clmnge
tune too late and did no good, and he
gradually grew worse, dying Satur
day night.
Mr. Hoon was a native of Illinois.
He attended the university of that
late and graduated In literature and
cience In 1001; in lnw in UIOO. He
then came west and settled in Tueuni-
ari in 1SM)7. whore he practiced law
ever since, nnd enjoyed a splendid law
usiness.
He is sunived by a sister. Miss
Minnie.-who lives here, and two broth
ers. Hugh T., of Armstrong. III., ami
Wm. G.. a civil engineer for the C. Is.
Q.. located at Downers Grove, III.
There was not a citizen in Tucum
cari who stood higher in the estima
tion of the public. His business trans
actions were honest and faithful ami
hi i death is deeply felt in this city.
ihe body was taken to Paris. III..
to be buried in the family lot. Hugh
Hoon came in Wednesday night to
iceompnny his -ister and the reniuins
of the brother to the last resting place.
Ihe sympathy of the entire community
goe with them on this snd mission.
LL FOR .MEETING OF THE
DEMOCRATIC CENTRAL COM.
A meeting of the Democratic Coun-
y Central Committee of Quay Coun-
y, N. M is hereby called to convene
it the Court House in Tucumcari at
ten o'clock a. in., on Saturday, the 0th
day of May, 1010. for the purpose of
setting the date for holding the coun
ty primary election for the nomination
of county and legislative candidates
for such county, also for adopting and
publishing rules to govern such pri
mary election and also for attending
to such other business as may nrop-
erly come before the committee.
Atid further, call is also made for a
mass meeting of the Democratic voters
of said county, at said time nnd place
lor the purpose of selecting nine dele
gates to represent Quay county at the
Democratic State Convention called
by the State Chairman to convene in
Mbuquorquo on the IMth day of May
. D.. 10H. for the purpoHC of choos
ing delegates from New Mexico to the
National Democratic Convention to he
held in St. Louis. Missouri.
C, ('. Davidson. Co. Chairman.
PROF. COOLEY AT HUDSON
NEXT TUESDAY AFTERNOON
Prof. A. C. Cooley of the agricultur
al extension work of the State College
at Mesilla Park, is to he present on
Tuesday afternoon, May 2, and will
address the annual meeting of the
farmers institute nt the Hudson school
house, at two o'clock.
Prof. Cooley will be in Quny c ninty
for only a few days, anil this will be
a rare opportunity to hear one of the
State s best workers. The mere an
nouncement of the farmers' institute
is to insure a large audience at Hud-
on. The general public has a cordial
invitation.
MR. COOLEY TO HE HERE
Mr. Cooley, state extension director
of the state of New Mexico, who is
in charge of the County Agents of the
stnte, will be in 1 ucumcari May : and
describe what these agents are doing
in various parts of the state. His
address will bo illustrated with slidos
showing various section of the farm
ing country anil other work done by
the County AgcnLs. Don t forget the
nte. Wednesday, May H.
DEATH CLAIMS ITS OWN
Died, at her home in the west part
i.i town, April 10, Miss Hurzlo Will
iams. She was the oldest child of Mr.
and Mrs. J. C. Williams. Two mouths
previous u brother and sister, aged
two and four years, passed on to the
great beyond.
Ilurzlc was ten years of age, and
was the life of her home, and the joy
of her teachers and little friends.
The reaper stopped in the harvest
field before the days work was done.
While the angels rejoice at the
abundant yield and welcome tho har
vester home, the friends und family
are sad and lonesome,
The causes of the deaths were scar
let fever and typhoid pneumonia.
A Friend.
If Verdun is really getting it as
hard as they sny it is, there's dnw
gawn little left to fuss about.
