(
VOL. XIV. SL'KAr, WHEELER COUNTY, OBEGCKNy TIIUItSDAY, APRIL 27, 191(3. NO. 11.
. ... T
of SHItAY ml W'HKKLKll I I II ftY 1 li! AU I I f I Sufawrlptloa Rmtm
COUNTY. Tb llbm-al patron. JlT5y I I 11 I V 1 III 4h II li I I I VmXmi L00
Kcrf tholtliwn of this JCSiW JJ I , F7 V 1 f NiigB' WN" , ITI 1 ( J ' , J7 J BlxMonttw M
tkmkrwpMtfullywiikilUd. Ay Jjr HM kZS f V V-' Tans Months Jl
U. S. TROOPS TO
STAY IN MEXICO
Carranza Most Show Ability to
Restore and Keep Order.
ENTIRE BANDIT AREA Will BE POLICED
Plan of Re-Disposing Rescue Forces
Approved Funston Will Have
Free Hand in Campaign,
,, Washington, D. C. Behind the for
mal announcement Sunday that Presi
dent WilHon had appproved a plan or
re-disposition of tho American troop
In Mexico, there was a plain Intima
tion that the Washington government
had determined to maintain a military
status quo beyond the border until the
Mexican do facto government had dem
on trated, its ability to capture or
crush Villa and his adherents and pre
vent repetitions of the Columbus raid.
In the Interim it is understood the
American troops will be so placed as
to safeguard the border towns by vir
tually policing the area south of the
line where General Carranza has been
unable to check bandit operations.
Secretary Barker announced the ap
proval of the re-disposition plan after
consulting with the President over a
joint report submitted by Major Gen
eral Funston and Major General Scott,
chief of staff, in conference on the
border. The plan was proposed by
General Funston and concurred In by
General Scott
Tho secretary announced the admin
istration's decision as follows:
"General Funston has recommended
a re-disposition of the forces in Mexi
co for the purpose of recuperation and
pending opportunities for further co
operation with the forces of the de
facto government in Mexico. The rec
ommendation has been approved , and
its execution left to bis discretion."
Later the secretary dictated the fol
lowing: "The statement I have made indi
cates nothing whatever on the subject
of when the American troops will be
withdraw from Mexico. The whole
subject of withdrawal of the forces is
under arrangement and negotiationa by
the State department."
, He said positively that no regiments
had been , ordered to the border and
that no such order was in contempts-,
tion.
The new military plan leaves the
pursuit , of Villia at a standstill, but
frees General Funston's hands to make
: the position of the forces in Mexico
secure by grouping them in posts of
such strength as to protect them from
attack. It will also serve as a plain
warning to General Carranza that he
must bend every effort toward secur
ing complete control of the territory
south of the most advanced American
post if he hopes to have the troops re
called. Czar Narrowly Missed by
Austrian Airman's Bomb
Berlin A narrow escape for Em
peror Nicholas of Russia from death
or serious injury by bombs dropped by
an Austrian airman during a visit of
the emperor to a southern sector of
the Russian line, is reported in Stock
holm advices. '
"The emperor was reviewing the
, troops in company with General Brus
siloff, commander of the Russian
forces . on the Southwestern front,
when an Austro-Hungarian flier ap-
peared and dropped numerous bombs,
which landed among the troops, who
fled in wild disorder," according to
the news agency statement.
"The emperor, " according to the, re
port, "was hurt and had a narrow es
cape, the incident causing him to lose
his Self-possession entirely. In con
sequence, General Brussiloff was bit
terly reproached and General Ivanoff
was recalled to the Southwestern front
headquarters." "
Thonsand Lost In Disaster.
, : Shanghai More than 1000 soldiers
and men of the crew of the steamer
Hsin Yu were lost when the steamer
sank after a collision with the cruiser
Hai-Yung Saturday night south of the
Chusan islands. The steamer, acting
as a transport, was taking troops to Foo
Chow. The collision occurred in a
thick fog and only one foreign engineer,
20 soldiers and nine sailors out of six
foreigners and more than 1000 soldiers
nd members of the crew were saved.
ONE CENT DUTY ON SUGAR
MAY CONTINUE INDEFINITELY
Washington, D. C. Late Saturday
the senate approved the house bill re
pealing the free sugar section of the
tariff law, under which sugar would
have gone on the free list May 1.
By a vote of G9 to 10 the senate re
ceded from an amendment which it
had passed extending duty of 1 cent a
pound for four years, and which the
house refused to agree to in confer
ence. Democratic senators cast all of the
10 votes against supporting the house
measure, which provides for a flat ap
peal, thus extending tho present duty
indefinitely.
The rept-Hl sought by the administra
tion to keep up revenues now needs
only the President s signature to be
come effective. The 1-cent duty yields
about $50,000,000 annually. Senate
Democrats, finding the house unyiold.
ing In its stand for a flat repeal, de-
"Peck's Bad Boy" Dead
r-ym
George W. Peck, former governor of
Wisconsin, but who was known to
fame as author of "Peck's Bad Boy"
long before he became a governor, has
just died. Most of the successful men
of today had to hide In the barn to
read "Peck's Bad Boy."
cided at a caucus to yield and avert
any possibility of sugar's going on the
free list even for a limited period.
German Embassy Anxious for
Return of Seized Documents
Washington, D. C. Papers seized
in New York by the department of
Justice from Wolfe von Igel, former
secretary to Captain Franz von Papen,
recalled German military attache, will
not be restored to the German embassy
until Count von Bemstorff distin
guishes between the official and per
sonal matter in the documents.
It was not believed that the German
embassy would agree to this procedure,
contending there is no authority for
the removal of papers of any kind
from the person or possession of a
diplomatic agent Embassy officials
are disturbed at the Idea that the de
partment of Justice intends to keep
photographic copies of the papers, and
it was said that Count von Bernstorff
would demand not only the originals,
plates and catalogue of the documents
which is understood to have been made
by the department of Justice. Am
bassador von Bernstorff is understood
to be awaiting instructions from Ber
lin. Von Igel's immunity from prosecu
tion as an employe of the German em
bassy was not accepted by diplomatic
officials. Immunity, it was said, was
interpreted as extending only to the
ambassador and his household.
resident Yuan of China Will
Permit Cabinet to Govern
Washington, D. C- The Chinese le
gation announces receipt of the fol
lowing dispatch from-Pekin:
'The military governor of Kiangsu,
General Feng Kuo Chang, commander
of the best oragnized troops and one
of the moBt influential leaders in Chi
na, aided by the civil and military
govenors of the 17 provinces, has come
forward to arrange on behalf of the
central government with the leaders
of the five other provinces which have
either declared independence or re
mained neutral in regard to the plans
of reorganization to be carried out.
"Nanking is the headquarters of
General Feng Kuo Chang, and the re
port that this city has declared its neu
trality is a pure rumor.
'President Yuan Shi Kai , issued a
namadte authorizing the secretary of
State, Hsu Shi Kang, to organize a
cabinet government in place of the
present presidential system. under
the new system of government the
heads of the various ministries will
assume joint responsibility for the con
duct of national affairs. "
il- -t' ih
FRESH REVOLUTION
BREWING IN MEXICO
New Movement, Presumably
Concern to WashingtonCabinet Discusses Situa
tion, but Awaits Report of General Scott.
Washington, D. C.While lmmedi
ate interest centers naturally in the
situation ar to the troops in Mexico,
there were renewed Indications about
the State department Saturday that a
wholly different aspect of the Mexican
problem was causing concern. That Is
the movement supposedly headed by
Felix Diaz, nephew of the former
Mexican dictator, for a new ievolution
against the de facto government
None of the information upon which
the uneasiness rests has been disclosed.
It Is known, however, that several
Mexicans in the United States are be
ing closely watched and it seems possi
ble that some of the anti-American
feeling in Chihuahua state, which has
met the troops pursuing Villa, may be
attributed to this movement.
The Diaz government it is said, has
the backing of various elements of
Mexicans, both in Mexico and this
country. As viewed by the State de
partment it is understood the activi
ties of these persons are the more
dangerous because they are wealthy,
while the de facto government is in
volved in a snarl of financial compli
cations which would be hard to over
come even in times of complete peace.
Funston Sends More Troops.
San Antonio, Tex. General Fun
ston issued orders Tuesday that will
place at the disposal of General Per
shing 2300 more troops.
He has ordered to proceed to Colum
American Line of Communications Being Menaced
"$K u"j
General Pershing's force of 12,000
men in Mexico since Carranza has
not premitted use of the railroads4 for
supplies is now menaced on a line
some 400 mlies long, reaching from
Columbus, N. M., to Parral, where
Major Tompkins has clashed with a
mob. This line, over which automo
bile trucks have carried provisions for
his soldiers, reached from Columbus
through Casas Grandes, Chihuahua, and
Satevo; Whether or not supply autos
are on their way to Parral to help
Major Tompkins is not known.
, : Carranza has many thousand soldiers
scattered through this territory. They
would be used at once against Ameri
can troops if the clash came. They
are distributed as. follows: At Chi
huahua, General Gutierrez with 6,000;
at Parral 600; at Jiminez 500; north
ern Sonora, General Calles with 12,
000; at Satevo, General Herrera with
Air Fleet Raids Germans.
Paris Three more raids by squad
rons of French aeroplanes on German
positions near the Greek border are re
ported in a Havas dispatch from Sa
lonika French areoplanes bombarded
the German camps at Negotin, Serbia
and Podgoritz, Montenegro; the bar
racks at Gieveli, the German hangars
at Negotin, the supply station at Stru
mitsa and the camp at Padagasi.
The dispatch says many bombs were
effective.
by Felix Diaz, Gives Deep
bus, N. M., the 6th Cavalry from the
Brownsville district the 17th Infantry
from Eagle Pass, the first battalion of
the 24th Infantry from Eagle Pass and
Troop L from the 10th cavalry, Fort
Apache.
, It may be that the War department
may have to authorize the sending of
the few remaining troops in the Unit
ed States into this department or it
may be that filling of the vacant posts
along the border may be left to the
government of Texas, which may send
the militia.
Pursuit at Standstill.
. Washington, D. C. The administra
tion is waiting on further reports from
American officers in Mexico before de
ciding whether the expedition seeking
Villa shall be withdrawn or reinforced
for further operations. Indications at
the War department bore out press re
ports from the front that the pursut of
Vila was temporarily at a standstill,
although there has been no change in
policy.
President Wilson and his cabinet
discussed the Mexican situation Tues
day in the light of a review of its mil
itary aspects submitted by Gen. Fun
ston. It was announced later 'that the
situation was unchanged and the ad
ministration's policy unaltered. One
member of the cabinet admitted, how
ever, that no decision had been reach
ed as to the withdrawal of the troops.
1200; at Juarez, General Gavira with
1800; at Madera General Bartani with
800; at Namaquipa, General Cano
with 800; at Guerrero, General Cavas
son with 600, and at Casas Grandes,
General Davilla with 1200. At Tor
reon, southeast of Parral, General
Trevino has 4000. The Arrieta broth
ers are operating in Durango with
about 8000 men and then there are the
I Villa bandits.
Iowa Swept by Tornado.
Mason City, Mo. A tornado swept
through North Central Iowa and
Southern Minnesota late Thursday, de
stroyed a number of farm houses, in
jured probably a score of persons and
killed several head, of livestock. At
Bricelyn, Minn., seven persons were
injured, Borne seriously.
Two farm houses at Belmont Minn.,
were blown down and dwellings in
Kleister, Minn., were damaged, ac
cording to reports received here.
TSflTVO V
A H OP
NORTHWEST MARKET REPORTS;
GENERAL CROP CONDITIONS
Portland Wheat Bluestem, $1.03
per bushel; fortyfold, 92c; club, file;
red Fife, 91c; red Russian, 91c.
Hay Eastern Oregon timothy,
$23.60 per ton; alfalfa, old crop,
119.60(&21.
Millfeed Spot prices: Bran, $23
per toa; shorts, $26; rolled barley,
$31.5032.60.
Cent Whole, $36 per ton; cracked,
$37.
Vegetables Artichokes, 76c per
dozen; tomatoes, $3.504 per crate;
cabbage, $2.263 per hundred; gar
lic, 10c per pound; peppers, 17i20c;
eggplant 20c: horseradish, 8c; cauli
flower, 75cg$1.25; lettuce, $22.26
per crate; cucumbers, $1.25 1.60;
spinach, 45c pound; asparagus, local,
$1.60 dozen; California, $2.252.75
per box; rhubarb, 23c per pound;
peas, 7c.
Potatoes Jobbing prices: Oregon,
$1.50(1.60 per sack; Yakimas, $1.60
1.75; new California, 67c; per
pound. Buying price: Oregon, $1
1.20. '
Onions Oregon, $1.35 1.75 per
sack; Texas Bermudas, yellow, $2 per
crate; white, $2.10.
Green Fruit Strawberries, $1.25
1.35 per crate; apples, $11.60 per
box; cranberries, $11 per barrel.
Egg" Jobbing prices: Oregon
ranch, candled, 2222Jc per dozen;
uncandled, 2122c
Poultry Hens, 1717Jc per pound;
stags, 13c; broilers, 2530c; turkeys,
live, 2021c; turkeys, dressed, choice,
2526c; ducks, 14 15c; geese, 10
lie.
Butter City creamey, prints, ex
tras, 30 34c per pound; country
creamery, prints, 29 33c; cubes, ex
tras, 2729c; imtterfat N. 1, 33c;
No. 2, 30c. ,
Veal Fancy, ll12c per pound."
Pork Fancy, lll12c per pound.
Hops 1915 crop, 1012cper pound;
1916 contracts, 10llc
Wool Eastern Oregon, 2127c per
pound; valley, 80c; mohair, new clip,
4046c
Cascara Bark Old and ,new, 4c per
pound.
Cattle Steers, choice grain and
pulp, $8.759; choice hay, $8.50
8.76; good, $8.158.50; meiudm,
$7.758.15; cows, choice, $7.50
7.80; good, $6.76(27.25; medium,
$6.25,7.25; heifers, $57. 15; bulls,
$2.756; stags, $35.25.
Hog Prime ught $8.909.05; good
to prime, $8.508.75; rough heavy,
$7.908; pigs and skips, $7.908.
Sheep Yearlings, $8.2510; weth
ers, ?89; ewes, $7b.Z5; lamos,
$9.6011.
U. S. Consul Says Orient
Calls for Northwest Products
Consul General John P. Bray, of
Singapore, Straits Settlements, who is
on leave of absence from his post
rived on the Pacific Coast last week
and has spent a couple of days in Se
attle in conference with business men
and others' interested in trade in the
Northwest The consul general has
been in the service of the State de
partment for about 20 years and for a
number of years was stationed at Syd
ney, Australia, but recently was trans
ferred to Singapore, where he not only
looks after the affairs of the depart
ment of state, but also has charge of
the affairs of other countries now at
war.;
The consul general spent considera
ble time in the Seattle office of the bu
reau of foreign and domestic com
merce and has given to the commercial
agent the following statement as to
conditions in the Straits Settlements
as they probably affect the business of
the Pacific Northwest
"As to the manufacturing interests
of the Pacific Northwest I would say
that there is a large opening in the
Oriental countries for products of this
region. Especially is this true in re
gard to pine lumber, ' flour, fruits,
canned fish (particularly salmon). t
"The development of the Straits
Settlements and the Federated Malay
States provides a great field for the
manufactured steel products of the Pa
cific Northwest and especially would
I call the attention of manufacturers
of this section to the lack of tnonage
for the manufactured products to be
sent forward."
Wheat Bids Are Advanced.
Portland Eastern bids for wheat
were lacking Thursday, but there was
some demand on the local market and
offers at the Exchange were advanced
i to 2 cents for spot and May delivery.
Bradstreets estimates the visible
wheat decrease at 1,037,000 bushels,
the corn decrease at 1,227,000 bushels,
and the oats decrease at 1,976,000
bushels. ,
Timothy hay is scarce in the local
market and will continue so during
the remainder of the season. The price
is on a firm basis. Receipts of Cali
fornia grain hay are looked for. Al
falfa is also firm. The outlook is for
a record crop of alfalfa in the North
west this year.
NEWS ITEMS
Of General Interest
About Oregon
Irrigation Project Revived and
Prosperity Returns to Irrigon
Irrigon Not since the collapse of
the Irrigon irrigation project in 1907
have the people of this little town
been able to look into the future with
the certainty of a final prosperous out
come as today. When the government
took the project over a few years ago
and began the great cement-lined ditch
there was a feeling of jubilation;
when the ditch was finished there waa
rejoicing. But until the present time
there has .usually been a prospect of
procrastination and delay, which pros
pects proved realities. Hence the lit
tle town practically stood stilL
Now, however, all Is changed. The
The government is about to take
charge of the project and handle the
water distribution, there is much more
water than will be used for years to
come, landowners are jubilant and are
going ahead planting and seeding as
never before. Buyers have just closed
tha largest purchase ever made here,
240 acres of raw land a few miles west
of Irrigon. ' The price paid waa well
over $10, 000. The new owners are
now busily at work with a large force
seeding the tract to alfalfa. Past
seedings of the kind here have return
ed two crops the first year, showing
that there is no quicker alfalfa land in
the country than at this beautiful spot
on the banks of the majestic Columbia.
Another sale was made whereby Ote
Henkle, now of Crook county, sold 80
acres of his homestead south of town.
Improvements are going forward on
this tract also.
Coos Bay Road Allowed.
Washington, D. C. Authority has
been granted by the superintendent of
the Coast Guard Service for the con
struction of a road from the Coos Bay
station, along the edge of the bluff for
a distance of three miles overlooking
the south entrance to Coos Bay. The
construction of this road was urged by
the North Bend chamber of commerce,
it being their contention that the road
is necessary for the transportation of
lifesaving apparatus in case of a
wreck in the vicinity.
It is pointed out that had there been
such a road when the Santa Clara waa
wrecked recently, the Coast Guard
might have saved the lives of those
who perished because of the inability
to reach the wreck promptly.
Cherries Thrive In Hood.
Hood River Prospects are bright in
Hood River for a bumper cherry crop
this year. Orchardists in all districts
report that their trees are loaded with
buds. Cherry trees are in full bloom
along the lowlands of the Columbia
and in the city. J. R. Nunamaker,
who owns the largest cherry orchard in
the valley, estimates his crop at 60
tons.
Strawberries are begining to bloom
in protected parts of t$he Lower valley.
The apple trees of the district probab
ly will be in full bloom during the
first week in May.
Merrill to Vote June 13.
Merrill If the council can have its
way, this place will have a water sys
tem in the near future, if only for fire
protection. A special meeting of the
city council was held recently, when
ordinances were adopted for a special
election of the legal voters for June
13, at which time they will be asked
to vote for the amending of the char
ter so as to permit bonds being issued
to the amount of $6000 to install fire
fighting apparatus. The action of the
city council is a result of a recent fire
in which a general store was destroyed.
Ditch Cost Is Protested.
Salem Orchardists of Sutherlin,
have filed complaint with the State
Public Service commisssion against
the J. F. Luse company, alleging that
the company's charge mi $3.50 an acre
for maintaining an irrigation ditch is
excessive. A hearing will be held by
the commission. The complainants
point out that the cost of ditch main
tenance in the arid districts of Eastern
Oregon as shown by the 1915 report of
the desert and board is but $1 an acre.
Bridge Plans Finished.
' Salem Plans and specifications for
a reinforced concrete bridge across
Ochoco creek, near Prineville, were
completed by the State Highway de
partment and forwarded to the Crook
county court The estimated cost of
the structure is $3900. The Highway
department has received a request to
prepare plans and Specifications for a
180-foot wood span which is to be con
structed near Myrtle Point Coos county.
