mm
'HIKI'V-FIKST YEAR.
NORTH PLATTE," NKIJ.. MAY 5,
No. 32
J
ft '
AGRICULTURAL rN
HAVE ISlfSJY DAY
Dairy, Silo unit Stock Special Train
With Fifty In (he Party, Visits
This City Wcilncitny.
The dairy, b11o untl live stock train,
operated Jointly by the International
Harvester Co., the Union Pacific and
the - state agricultural collego, with
about fifty experts on board visited
North Platte Wednesday. The train
started 'on Its Journey at Kimball, Mon
day morning and stopping at all sta
tions enroutc reached this terminal
nt 1:40 Wednesday afternoon. The
train remained here about two hours
and then left over the branch for
Gerlng, stepping at all stations en-
route.
CITY AND COUNTY NEWS.
Don't miss the Glee Clubs tonight.
High School auditorium. 8:00 p. m.
Mrs. J. J. Hnllgan loft Wednesday
night for a visit at points In Minne
sota. IJr. Murdoch, of Ogalalla, who visited
with Dr. and Mrs. F. J. Wurtelc this
week, has gono home.
Fred Jacobs, of Moorefield, Is
among the out-of town people who are
visiting In town this week.
Mr. and Mrs. Joo Stevens and Chao.
Lclman, of Moorolleld, arc spending a
lew days with local friends.
Harold Pulllum, of Brady, arrived
hore a few days ago to accept a po
sition In the Stone drug store.
Mr. and Mrs. Robert Layton, ot
Omaha, returned home yesterday af-
STILL
At 'this point the paity was nug. tcr visiting here for several days.
mented by a half dozen or more ex
norts who arrived on an early morn
ing train. Those who arrived In the
morning participated In the program
which had been arranged for the fore
neon pending the arriving of the spe
cial train.
The stay in North Platte wos a
strenuous round for the speakers. At
9:30 Mr. Farr spoke at the high school
on poultry raising and Will Maupln
described to the students the great
ness of Nebraska's productions. At 11
o'clock Asst. State Supt Teed spoke
to the pupils of the gramar grades at
the Keith theatre, his subject being
rural life with special emphasis on the
growing of pigs and chickens by boys
and girls. At 1:30 Mr. Farr again
sp-ke nt the high school auditorium
to the students, his remarks being
along general agricultural lines, and
at three o'clock Mr. Farr spoke to the
pupils of the primary grades at the
Keith, Illustrating his talk on home
gardens and pcultry with lantern
slides. At three o'clock a general
meeting was held at the court house
at which dairy cows and dairying was
discussed by Geo. M. McKerrow, of
"Wisconsin. At four o'clock a talk
was delivered to the city school teach
ers by the state superlntednent of Ida
ho schools, a lady, who took as her sub
ject the linking uo of the schools wjtti
the community. Meetings for women
were 1ield;nt the library nt 1:40 and at
the Episcopal church at two.
Meetings were also held at sever
al schorl bouses on the south side and
nt the Calhoun school on the norMi
side, these gatherings being addressed
by exports of the party.
::o::
Complete Larlilir Mains.
By this evening Commissioner Welch
will have completed the Improvements
to the water works system In the pav
ing district. These improvements con
plsted of placing twenty-two man
holes at points where there are valves
on the mains; taking up 1300 feet of
four-Inch pipe on Front street and re
placing with sir-inch, and laying 3fi0
feet of four-Inch pipe on Dewey be
tween Sixth and Fifth. The total-cost
of this work was about twenty-onn
Hundred dollars.
::o::
Presbyterian Church.
Have, you a boy? Do you live in
town? An address, "The Boy In
Town," Presbyterian church Sunday
n. m. 11 a. m., children's choir. Mrs.
Robert White will speak.
::o::
For Sale or Trade.
12 lots, Block 28 in Julcsburg, Colo.
Will sell or trade for North PJatte
property. Hi Smith. G04 east Sixth St.,
North Platte, Neb. ' 30-'.
: :o: :
Dic.k Baker, of Staploton, is spend
ing a few days here visiting friends
and transacting business.
You will enjoy the minstrel play as
presented by the girls' Glee Club, to
night at the High School auditorium.
Mrs. C. M. Reynolds loft Inst night DEPOT PLAN
fcr a visit with friends in umaiia. t :
C. W. Home spent Tuesday In Kear- ' 1J NEW YORK.1
ney, going down to attend a Christian
Sr(niirfc luptllrtv
Dr. Brock. Dentist, over Stone Drug So a, (ieuenil Supt. .loffm, Who j
Store. .,. Mils in Town tills .Homing Kit.
Mr. and Mrs. Brooks Meadows have i route lp the Itrnnclt
returned from a vlBlt In the eastern
part of tho state. . "The plans for the new North Platio
ARB AGE CANS
Cloan Up Suit Sale, all Wool Suits depot lire still in Now iorK ' said uoul.
formorlv priced up to J37.50 now i;ov puW- Jciiora, wno cumu in irom uinu-
liif nt $20 00 BLOCK'S. ha last night anu leit tills morning on
. . i i' m i iu ... M. a trip ot Inspection over tno .urtn
A social dance wll bo old at ttw ,tffer' b , '.. t u ,
Lloyd opera l ouse this evening b - approved b5- the Now ork oRieluis.
the,ecman drill team. vmivo b(Jen 0X,,ecUHl tlt ln0 Omuha
Wm. Harcourt, of Harcourt & Jon- -headquarters. However, they aro
s?n, transacted business In Omahn sev- mtely to arrive any day. '
eral days this week. , Aimed as to ino exact' locution of tho
Clean up Sale of all Wool Suits. All, ,dupult Mr. Juhois said;' "as 1 tindor
our Suits formerly sold up to $17.50 btnnd n, the west end oi the depot
now $10.00. BLOCK'S. will tie u tow teec west otftho west end
Mrs. E. A. Hamilton, who visited ot tho dspatchers' oil eel This will
last week with Mr. and Mrs. Earl necessitate mtvlng therrolght dopot
Hnmllton, has returned to Omaha. turtner east and reWuUngemenl of
Mrs. George Gibbs and daughter re- 11!:
. inrtin.l n W ,lnvu .rn frnnl nil nvtmwl. 1UUVCU lu UHU biuu iUlU
Roy and John Delate and Miss Clara' vlsIt wm. relative-? In York ' ' occupied temporarily while the now
Delate, of Moorefield, are visiting thl8 " V e , . i i. . bullUlng Is In course of construdtlon.
week with Mr. and Mrs. Sam Soulier. . -f!i i in"ni jo ii t nit n nil left Th0 ,lo,)ot W,U be lwo storles' nioael"
th0 Maxwell garage this week and left m Banewh,it niter tho stylo of tho
The first cur of advertising for tho for Kansas City yesterday afternoon. Denver depot, but ot courso smaller.
Al G. BttmOS ClrCU3 Came here yes- riM,n p ri n will lintil n nln snln nt Tin untlni. ri'm.ii will Imvn n twntiK'
torday and placed their bills In the Hacker's (lrug stort, Saturday, May six foot ceiling tho areaway surround
business houses
W. L. Reynolds, of Chadron, wa
called hero the first of the weok to at
tend the funoral of the late Claude P.
Faulkner, to whom he was related.
The Dorcas club of the Presbyter
ian church, composed of girls under
14, gave a house party Wednesd
ternoon. About sixty girls
Hip nreftslnt)
nvfir fnnnil n ilnaK vnn
Roy Ames oi tins cny, was one oi , through?" Try modern
13th. Whole pies will be sold and also cd by a balcony from which entrances
cut pie and coflee will uo served. will Had to tho second lloor offices.
Mr. and Mrs. Thomas Gorham. of Onvtho upper lloor will bo located the
Grand Island, and Mr. and Mrn. Will terminal offices. Tho dining room and
Carey, of Omaha, who camo tho first lunch counter will bo ample to ac-
of the week to attend tho May Party comodate tho demands for years to
and visit relatives, have gone homo. come; in fact tho entire dopot ia not
J, l m ,. ,ou,iv- t,n f ,,,i being built for tho requirements of to.
" Y 1 YpvnrMv nlllrp n .ov.-rv t artlci Hr Is da uut fcr t,lc noc at tho expected
enjoyed , exnc olll e in , overs particular Is ftn ni of
i"',": T ' J """' "" ""A; and western Nebraska."
a class of aeventcen who graduated
from tho agricultural school at Curtis
could see
optometry.
last weok and has gone to Omaha j lloivoi beds,
Harry Dlxcn, Jeweler & Optometrist.
ow Is the Mini; to prepare our
Ktioelnl miiI( on Ylncas
accept a position. ,ui (5,.riHihini itlnnts tomorrow. Watch
Eye-strain may manifest ltseir m our window tonight.
organs remote from the seat or trouble.
Optometry's work is to trace these re-
Ilex disturbances to their source. Har
ry Dixon, Jeweler and Optometrist.
Christian Science service Sunday 11
a. m.. subject "Adam and Fallon
Man." Wednesday evening. meeting nt
Keferrlng to the forced removnl of
many of the beatlful trees In the park,
Mr. Jelfors said: "I have a tender spot
in my heart lor those trees. My first
Job1 with the Union Pacific was look
.ing; after those trees In tho year 181)0.
,1 helped to nurse them along when they
were young and I was young. Perhaps
thoy enn be taken up and transplanted,
LIKHK-SANHAIiL CO.
Mrs. Harry Block who went east
several weeks ago to attend her fath- i H0 thlU w,u 00 llone
nH. rimnwnl rt i 1 IntAM nnnni turn itfrvnlo
In New York City purchasing Bummer . i..'.'" v..,,,,,,,,,
stock fcr Hie Block store, will return Jom.s..lucksoii Miptials
homo Sunday. Mlss Mnrgarette A. Jones, ot this
r,. i ,. tnni f ihi. nlt. ''o iiugaea' jacKsou u
' ..u"ui.. 3i !, .""S ' ... Z.'Z Hastings, were married at tho homo
S:00. A cordial invitation Is extended
in nil. nnllillnp- .C- T.nnn linildinir. rnnm i i.i,i i- ci,i.i., Tn..,n fr.
25- "I two years past, has accepted a post- ?Ll! e br.,deA " otl.1.er'. Ma,ry
In a complaint filed In the county! Hon as traveling salesman for the -"" """ xvuZ.,.;
J C rial (inlmn Cn r,T flnlnVlil " ""-"i'"t. mio UIUIU
XV ..r. was not unexpected by their many
Willi J l.ilUHUill IUIH III 1U111I I IUUI-. !.. I .., Hi. ; ,, ill
He wllf move his family here in tho .Heildsyct 1,0 lato of the wedding
court Mrs. Olive Pitt charges that her
husliand has failed to support her and
has abandoned her. The defendant
upon being arraigned plead not guilty
and the cas will como up for hearing
next weok,
Xow Is the Mine to prepare your
flower beds. Special sain on Vlncni
mid Geranium plants tomorrow, Watch
our window tonight.
LIERK-SAXDAMi CO.
Harry Porter, who had bottling
wcrks at Sterling and nt Bridgeport
has a. Id them and will give his full
time to his North Platte works. Mr.
Porter is investigating a proposition
in the manufacturing lino which may
result very beneficially to North Platte.
We must make room for our summer
stock which is arriving dally. We
have therefore placed on sale the en
tire stock of spring suits which for
merly sold frcm $15.00 to $37.50 at
$10,00. $15.00 and $20.00. BLOCK'S.
Miss Smith, a specialist in canning,
gave an Interesting lecture In canning
vegetables Wednesday ovenlng to the
domestic science club of the Presby
terian church. About forty girls and
ladles attended. Miss Smith was one
of the lecturers on the special train.
: :o::
For Itent
Suite of four rooms, over Huffman's
Cigar Store. See Huffman. 32-2
early fall.
daj: morning and tho -ceremony wris
Those- who appreciate the best In performed In the presenco of a very
phdto Plays ,wHi bo given a treat May .fow .WoBO frlcmls ot the bri(lei Mr
" i. ,r. m. i f ami Mrs. Jackson left on the afternoon
train for Omaha and other eastern
points, nfter which they will return
here for a short visit before taking up
be shown nt the Keith. This feature,
has been produced in nine parts and
hnfi been given one of the most elab
orate jsettlngs In thp htatory of mo- tllelr resi(ienco in Lincoln.
lion -pictures, owing 10 inn iciigui oi
theplcture Manager Garman announ
ces'that the first show will start at
7:00, p. m.
The bride was born in Dnnsvllle, Va
and came hero whence a child with
her parents. Sho received her educa
tion in the local schools and was tho
The regular meeting of the P. E. O. vnledlctorian of the class, of 1912. For
sisterhood was Held on Wednesday, several years she was an employe
May 3d, at mo nome oi mrs. scou ami of tho Plntto Valley State bank and a
the program was uovoted to tlie study stenographer of unusual ability. Sho
of domestic science problems. Mrs. i8 very popular in social circles and
Wilcox read- an oxcellent paper on lias, a lnrgo number of friends who
"Systematic Housekeeping' and Mrs. wish her happiness
Evans a very interesting article on Mr. Jackson has been associated
"Economy against Waste." At tho with the Heinz Pickle Co. as travel
close of the program the ladles served inu salesman for several vears and lr.
themselves to a delicious lunch which well known throughout tho state as a
had been prepared by tho members progressive, agreeable and capable
irom tnoir "iavorue recipes, me ai- young man. Congratulations are ex
ternoon proved very
profitable to all.
o:
cnjoyablo and tended.
Farm Loans.
Wo have plenty of money on hniiil to
close loans promptly. Lowest rates
of Interest and best terms.
20-tf UUCIIAXAX & VATTEKSOX.
-: :o:
MEDIUM AND CHEAPER GRADE
You will find a display in our south window showing a few styles in medium and
cheaper grades of footwear. With prices on all lines of leather advancing
these should be of interest to you. These shoes, while lower in price than
finer grades, are made of good, dependable stock and the wearing qualities
have not been sacrificed for style. Many of these shoes are from lines we
have sold f ' ver fifteen years and have always proved satisfactory. Among
them you w..'find
Children's Slippers from 75c to $2.50
Ladies' Oxfords from $2.00 to $2.50
Ladies' Shoes from $2.00 to $2.50
Boys' Shoes from $1.50 to $2.50
Men's Work Shoes at $2.50
Men's SJioes, Semi Dress Styles, $2.50
We also carry finer Shoes in Men's and Ladies' up to $5 a pair.
Wilcox Department Store
Knterlnlti P. K. 0. and Husbands
Tho ladles of tho P. E. O. sisterhood
with their husbands were pleasantly
I entertained by Mrs. Scott and Mrs
j Hendy at the home of tho former Frl
uay evening, April zhui. uninty in
vitations In rhyme had been provlous
ly Issued to the guests requesting them
to bring us many pennies as there wore
letters In their names, and these were
collected for tho benefit of the P,
! O. convention fund.
E
Several Sizes. Different Prices.
SIMON BROS.
AN ELABORATE PHOTO PRODUCION OF HALL
CAINE'S IMMORTAL NOVEL AND PLAY
99
The Eternal City
WITH PAULINE FREDERICK.
Keith Theatre
Wednesday and Thursday.
MAY 10 and 11.
2 SHOWS 7:00 P. M. AND 9:00 P. M.
10 and 20 Cents.
Why Not You?
People realize, n.ore nnd more, that a hank
account muintainctj systematically is the greatest
aid to financial prbgrqss.
" ; ' ' ( ' ,- V
" ' '.l '
i ou can enjoy -many '
privileges by be
coming a depositor.
This bank oflers its service to thrifty people
who desire to build a surplus, and enjoy the
benefits of an association with a strong financial
institution.
McDonald State Bank.
Capital Stock $100,000. Resources $500,000
A generous
amount was received. An amusing
contest was a feature of the entertain
nient and the remainder of the oven
Ing was pleasantly spent in listening
to sovernl inimical selections on the
Victrola nnd becoming hotter acqaulnl
ed with the "brothors" of tho chapter.
A picnic lunch was served by the
hostesses In cafeteria fuahion and
thoroughly enjoyed by the guests.
: : o : :
For Sale.
A U room modem house; lot Gt3xl32.
Garage lOxlG. Price $2200.00 if taken
at once. Enquire at 1)08 East Fifth
street. 32f3
::o::
Lutheran Announcements.
Sunday school i):45 a. m.
Morning worship 11 o'clock, "lleau
tifylng His House."
Luther League 7:iC p. m. topic,
"Gustavas Vasa."
Evening Worship at 8 o'clock. Given
courage by the Invlslblo Presence.
The choir will glvo the concluding
pitrt of tho Easter Cantata at the even
ing service.
The Brotherhood will moot at tho
parish houso ou Monday evening in
logulnr monthly session. Thoy will bo
i nturlalncd by the bachelor members
of the brotherhood. A good turn ou
ic expected.
::o::
Carl Abrahaiusou, of Lincoln, for
nicrly of this city, spent a few days
hern this week visiting friends and
transacting business.
;:o:;
F. J, WO BR & 00.
Ileal fiHtnte and Innnrance
Come and boo ub for town lots In
different parts of the city. Good In
vestments on easy terms, Housos (or
sale and rent. We have also good bar
gains In farms and ranches.
Cor. Front and Dewey Btsu upstairs,
1-
R. . curfew fUiATJw. :m
BEST 5
V,
Vs.-
1
i" ir'
r a .am m m
''I
RFwn Mil I
- wiiu i 1 1 iu-
NRTHBEND,NEB
FOR SALE BY
John Her rod, Grocer
