First
iMaui County Fair!
Nov. 30, Dec. 1 and 2
Boost The
Maui County Fair
VOLUME XXIII.
WAILUKU, MAUI, T. II., MAY 5. 1U..
NUMBER 1 1
Two Autos Struck
By Railway Train
Both Collisions at Same Point Within
24 Hours Cars Smashed Cut No
One Seriously Hurt
Mrs. Harold W. nice was painfully
luit not dangerously injured last Fri
day cvenliiK when her automobile was
struck !y n train on the Knhului Rail
road, at tho crossim; between Spreck
elsville and I'aia. That lioth she and
her chauffeur, Morihnra, wito not kill
ed, is considered almost a miracle.
Tho automobile was liadly smashed
up.
Within less than 2-1 hours from the
time Mrs. Hire met with her accident,
an automobile in the rent service own
ed and driven by M. Nashiwa. of I'aia,
and bearing as a passenger Miss Dar
roch, a trained nurse of Honolulu, was
struck by a train at. the same crossing
point. While in this instance a wheel
was torn from the auto, and the front
part otherwise badly damaged, neither
occupant, was injured. Miss Darroch,
who had just left a private patient at
the I'aia hospital, was on her way
about 2 o'clock on Saturday after
noon to Kaliului to take the Claudino
for home, when the accident happened.
She was picked up a few minutes after
wards by Mrs. W. II. Field, who hap
pened that way, and was driven to
the boat.
Canaiderajlile a firm was flelt for
some time on account of Mrs. Rice's
Injuries, which consisted of a number
of severe cuts from the broken glass
of the windshield. She also sustained
divers bruises. However, following
an X-ray examination of her ankle for
a possible fracture, it was found that
she was suffering most from shock,
and she was soon well on road to re
covery. The Japanese driver sustain
ed a number of minor cuts and bruises
also.
Although this is the first, accident of
the kind that the Kahului Railroad
has had for a number of years, the
point where the two collisions oc
cured is a dangerous one, owing to
the difficulty of automobilists not see
ing the railroad until they reach the
crossing. Owing to the amount of
travel on the road in question, it
would seem highly desireable that a
watchman, or some system of signals
for approaching trains should be de
ised for the place.
Denies Ferreira
Has Or Will Resign
But Sheriff Claims Resignation Was
Made and Accepted Cummings
or Sylva Slated For Job
John Ferreira, who was suspended
two weeks ago as deputy sheriff, by
County Sheriff Crowell, on account of
charges which had ,been pretVrred
against, him, handed In his resignation
on Monday evening and the same
was accepted by the sheriff. Sheriff
Oowcll made a statement to this ef
fect to the MAl'I NEWS on Tuesday.
Today Eugene Murphy, who states
that with Lorrin Andrews, of Hono
lulu, he is representing Ferreira as
attorney, stated to the NEWS that
Ferreira lias not resigned and has no
intention of so doing. "The case is
a put up job," declared Murphy.
"There will probably be a fight but
we are ready for it," he added.
"The deputy could be removed by
the sheriff for cause but the charges
against him will fall flat there's noth
ing to them."
Sheriff Crowell states that the de
puty made his resignation verbally,
turning over at the same time the
property of the county in his posses,
sion. "A bluff," is the way he chaar
acterizes Murphy's declaration.
Deputy Sheriff Ferreira, it will be re
membered, was charged by a Japanese
prisoner who had served a jail sent
ence, with having failed to return
about $15 belonging to him when his
sentence was ended. IJefore the mat
ter could be investigated by the
sheriff, the Japanese disappeared, but
was traced to Hawaii, from whence
he was brought by Frank C. Sylva,
police clerk, who was sent after him.
once, and that he expects to make
tho announcement the first of the
week. According to well
authenticated report, the choice
of the sheriff will lie between
George II. Cummings, and Frank
Sylva, both of whom are popular and
are believed to be well qualified for
the position. Cummings was formerly
connected with the police department.
Sheriff Crowell, who is far from well,
on account of a serious ear affection,
will probably take an extended rest
and course of treatment as soon as
he has placed the affairs of his ofllce
in tho hands of the new deputy.
tt
BORN
BAILEY In Honolulu, April 23, 191C,
to Mr. and Mrs. C. T. Iiailey, (nee
Gilmore) of 30 lieach road, Waikiki,
a son Clifford Herbert.
County Asked For
Small Part Of Cost
Supervisors May Act on New High
School Proposition Soon Patrons
Would Pay Almost All
One of the matters of particular in
terest which will probably come before
the meeting of the board of super
visors next week, is the proposed new
building Tor the Maui Central High
school. The plan which is to lie laid
before the board is that the county
shall furnish $5.0(10 to lie added to the
sum of $2.1,000 or. $20, 000 which will
be subscribed by citizens interested
in the school. It is estimated that the
new building should cost in the neigh
borhood of $30,000. The present
highschool building at Ilamapuapoko,
while but three years old, is declared
to be totally inadequate and unsuited
to school purposes. It, is badly lighted,
poorly ventilated, and unsuitably ar
ia ngi'd.
Another matter of considerable in
terest which must, be decided, is
whether or not (he location or the
school should be changed from llama
kuapoko to I'aia. It is understood that
some of the patrons of the institution
favor this, despite the fact that the
present school grounds at Ilamakua
poko are amply large for the new
structure, and are conveniently locat
ed. Election Certificate
Awarded to Raymond
Dr. J. II. Raymond's election as
delegate to the democratic national
convention, was confirmed at a meet
ing of the county democratic commit
tee held last Saturday night. Dr.
Raymond was given the disputed cert
ificate of election after the matter
had been gone over at some length.
Word conies from Honolulu that this
decision is far from satisfatory to
the McCandless wing of the party, and
that the territorial central committee
has been appealed to reverse the deci
sion. Dr. Raymond has indicated that
in case the territorial committee
should declare him not elected he will
carry the matter to tho national con
vention for decision.
W. P. Jarrett, who made a close
race for national committeeman
against J. II. Wilson, will probably
also ask the central committee to seat
him.
Polo Game
Postponed
On account of the wet weather,
which has put the new polo field in
poor condition, the game with the
Oahu team, scheduled for tomorrow
afternoon, has been postponed for a
week or two. The Maui Racing Asso
ciation's big fancy masked ball, how
ever, will take place tomorrow night
as announced.
8-
Reinhardt Damage
Case Nearing End
Motion For Non-Suit Denied Hono
lulu Doctor to Show X-Ray Pictures
of Plaintiff's Injuries Tomorrow
The $15,000 damage suit or Charles
Reinhardt vs. the County of Maui, oc
cupied all of Thursday in the second
circuit court, and will be taken up
for final disposition again tomorrow
morning. The case was recently in
the supreme court, on demurrer by
the county on ground that the terri
tory is not liable for the non-feasance,
or negligence through which Rein
hardt was hurt by walking into a
washout in the ocuuty road at liana,
some months ago; the higher tribunal
overruling the demurrer.
At the trial yesterday Judge Edings
overruled a motion of County Attor
ney Itevins for a non-suit on grounds
that the plaintiff had recourse in the
workman's compensation act; that the
county supervisors had no formal
knowledge of the damage to the road;
and that, the condition of the road
should have been known to the plain
tiff as it was generally known of
throughout the neighborhood.
The case was continued until Sat
urday on motion of Case and Vincent,
for the plaintiff, in order that Dr.
Straub, of Honolulu, may be secured
as a witness. It is understood that
the physician has u number of X-ray
pictures showing the various fractures
and other damage which Reinhardt's
bony structure sustained by his fall.
Among the witnesses examined yes-
West Wing Break
WaterGets Start
Important Kahului Project Seems Sure
to Pass Senate News Comes as
Pleasant Surprise
The MAPI NEWS' wireless report
last evening of the favorable action
of the senate committee on the bill
for the west wing of the proposed
Kahului breakwater, was received
with much satisfaction by Maui peo
ple generally.
"It means a lot to Maul, if that
bill gets through," declared William
Walsh, superintendent of the Kahului
Railroad Company, who has been one
of the hardest workers for the project.
"We had scarcely dared hope that It
would receive any action at this ses
sion," he continued, "on account of
the press of war and other matters,
and the policy of retrenchment. It's
mighty good news."
The west wing breakwater will
make Kahului a real harbor even
when the wind hauls into the north.
At present, under this condition the
harbor is sometimes untenable for
vessels. ISut besides this it will not
cut off the current which at present
sets into the harbor, and makes it
necessary to spend about $10,000 per
year for dredging sand thus carried in.
This regular job of deepening the har
bor has just been completed, and it
will be but a few months before it
must be done again.
The projected breakwater has long
since had the strong endorsement of
government engineers, and its need
was fully appreciated by at least
some of the members of the congress
ional party which visited the Islands a
year ago. It will complement the
present breakwater, leaving but a
narrow channel entrance for ships,
and practically enclosing the whole
harbor from the sea swells. Resides
making the harbor perfectly shelter
ed and reducing the cost of mainten
ance, it will also make available for
wharves and shipping a largo area not
now practicable for the purpose.
It is understood that $200,000 to
$250,000 was to be asked for, though
whether this was to be made as a
single appropriation is not known
here. It is believed that the action
of the senate committee practically
guarantees the passage of the mea
sure by the upper house, though it
still has the gauntlet of the House to
pass.
8
Raymond Is
Appointed
a
Dr. J. II. Raymond was ap
pointed supervisor for Maui, on
Tuesday, to fill the vacancy on
the board caused by Philip
Pali's resignation. Thus is end
ed a matter of considerable in
terest, and much speculation
during the past several weeks.
The Star-Ilulletin, in reporting
the appointment, states that "a
Maui legislator held a long con
ference with the governor and
imediately afterwards Dr. Ray
mond's appointment was sign
ed." Storm Again Cuts
Off Water Supply
The unusually heavy rain on last
Monday again changed the course of
the Iao stream at the waterworks in
take, and as a result the upper sect
ions of Wailuku were without water
during most of Tuesday and Wednes
day. The temporary repairs) made last
January were washed out, and it was
not until Wednesday afternoon that a
big force of men were able to again
make connections Willi the elusive
stream. The flow in tho stream is
still shifting, according to County Eng
ineer Cox, and it will probably take
constant work for some time to keep
water flowing into the reservoir.
With the completion of the contract
let last week to the Howell Engineer
ing Company by the loan fund com
mission, tor the extension of the pipe
line further up the valley, the present
difliculties will probably be ended.
tt
terday by the plaintiff were Reinhardt,
himself, Ceo. O. Cooper, District
Magistrate Wailehua, Mr. and Mrs.
John Kaleo, Henry Hush, Sam Pupuhi,
Hugh Howell, and Charles Iiailey.
Pine Growers May
Get Better Terms
Sure of Better Prices and Conditions
If Contracts Planned Can Be Agreed
To Profit Sharing Idea
The cnmmillee of the Haiku Farm
ers' Association, which was appointed
some time ago to take up the matter
of a mom satisfactory contract with
the canning companies, and which
has spent a great amount of time and
labor on the mailer, has prepared an
outline report of what the two com
panies are likely to be willing to do
in the way of contracts, and has ask
ed the homesteaders to stale whether
either plan would be acceptable to
them, and how many aires each is
willing to plant, provided the con
tracts can be secured substantially on
the basis indicated.
The propositions of both the Haiku
Fruit and Packing Company and the
Maui Pineapple Company are believed
to be much more equitable than here
tofore, although probably not so good
as had been hoped for.
Following is an nut linn of the salient
features of the two plans, drawn up
for comparison :
A SYNOPSIS OF THE CONTRACTS.
Both Contracts
1. Provide that each grower shall
state how many acres, and where they
are, that he will plant for that caii
(Continued on page G)
:$..
Housekeepers Will
Have Part In Fair
Department of Domestic Arts Planned
InquiriesFromOutsidelslands
Government Will Probably Exhibit
Owing to the terrific rain storm
which raged all day Monday, the meet
ing of the Maui fair committee, an
nounced for that afternoon, was post
poned. It will probably be held some
time next week.
A great, deal of interest is being
manifested in the plans for the first
Maui fair, which will be held nt
Thanksgiving time, and it. is very
certain that a surprisingly large
number of exhibits of all kinds will
be gathered together at that time.
One of the departments which should
attract much attention is the house
hold, or domestic arts department,
which is being planned. In this would
be shown various kind of home pro
ducts, including cookery, household
decoration, and fancy work. A number
of ladies have already been inquiring
as to the scope of this department
with a view to preparing exhibits for
it.
Several letters have also been re
ceived from Honolulu business houses
indicating that they will be glad to
make exhibits of various products, if
permitted to do so. As it is the in
tention to encourage exhibits from all
sources, and to bar none on account
of origin, it is believed that a splendid
showing- of machinery, and other sup
plies will be arranged for.
The public health department and
the local branches of the department
of agriculture are planning to get
in touch with the Washington ollicials
with view to having both the federal
health service and the department of
agriculture send to the fair the splen
did exhibits which they keep for such
purposes. These will include a series
of interesting moving picture films
and lantern slides, and according to
ihe plans of the committee would be
shown in one of the local picture
houses, or on an outdoor screen, as a
feature of entertainment, which it is
proposed having for ihe e venings dur
ing the time the fair is in progress.
PAUWELA CASE GOES
TO SUPREME COURT
Tho ejectment soil of Namai I.ei
alolia vs. Mahiai, tried last week in
the second circuit court, and decided
in favor of the defendant, has been
appealed to the supreme court. The
case is of considerable importance
since it involves the possession of
property in the undivided hui hinds
of Pauwela, of which both parties to
the suit are members. The local court
found that the plaintiff already occu
pies more land than she is entitled to,
and hence the non-suit. The Pauwela
village occupies a considerable por
tion of this hui land, and it is probable
that Ibis may lie but Ihe first, of sever
al cases of like character. Eugene
Murphy is attorney for the plaintiff,
while Enos Vincent and J. W. Kalu&
represent llm defendant.
.8
KAUAI MAN ATTEMPTS SUICIDE
Manuel R. Jardin, storekeeper and
postmaster at Homesteads, Kauai, at
tempted suicide last Friday by shoot
ing himself in the breast. The bullet
missed the heart and the man will
probably recover. Despondency caus
ed by undue use of booze, is alleged to
have caused the act.
WILSON REFUSES TO
ARGUE WITH GERMANY
Situation Declared Ominous Mexican Issue May
Be Clearing Kahului Breakwater Bill
Likely To Pass At This Session
1 IO'( I.t'I,lT. May 5--Japanese greatly pleased by raise of plant
ation workers' wages. Tin- genorily of planters creates a big sensation
and laborers rejoice, Consul-general Mori delighted with outcome of
issue. President of Japanese merchants association and ollur prominent
Japanese express gratification.
New commander of Hawaiian department, Mi igadicr-Gcncral
Kvans. will arrive here May 13. His career in United States has heen
notable and varied. He succeeds General Wisscr.
The Rapid Transit amended charter is almost complete. Final
meeting will he held in the senate chamber this evening. The question
of city's share of stock issue still unsettled.
National guard system is indicted by war experts. Army college
calls organized militia worthless, as compared vviih federal force. Digest
of findings by experts received here. Statesmen at Washington dow n to
present, shown to have addniitted shortcomings.
WASHINGTON', May 5 Germany's offer of compromise not
acceptable. President Wilson insists upon prompt compliance with
United States' demands. Following receipt of note from Ambassador
Gerard, the President reiterated that he will not argue the question
with Germany, but insist firmly upon demands already made. Mulk of
German people are believed to favor submission to America. Previous
dispatch from P.erlin gave hint of rupture. Ultra-militarists seem to
think best way would be to break with Washington. Thought that
America asks to much, by some factions.
llaitien government resigns and parliament protests to Washington
that America is violating legislative rights. Marines and sailors may In
landed again.
LONDON, May 5 Verdun flashes fierely again with strife as
French charge. Teutonic forces under prince, after fighting with
('.allies over every inch of ground, are driven from trenches. Official
admission made by Merlin.
Russians continue to sweep Caucasus of Turks as Russian army
advances, and more Russians reach France.
W ASHINGTON, May 5 Mikado pleads for pan-Americanism.
He urges merchant marine and railroad to knit western nations to
gether. PARIS, May 5 French sailing schooner P.ernadette sunk by sub
marine, 150 miles from shore. Crew escaped in boats. Fight picked
up. Others still adrift.
WASHINGTON, May 5 Conference at border is about conclud
ed. President is ready to accept main points of agreement.
WASHINGTON, Ma' 4 Peace not in sight, says Ambassador
Page to Italy. He went to White House to confer with President.
He thinks a victor)' first is essential.
Chairman Hay, of House military committee, conferred with
President today over the deadlock between the House and senate con
ferees on army organization bill. It is said conferees have about reach
ed a decision. Volunteer army feature of senate bill. Senate conferees
are pressing for adoption while House members take opposite stand.
President Wilson favors senate plan.
Mexico to help eliminate Villistas. Agreement with the Carranza
government is virtually completed.
PARIS, May -1 French troops made further advance on the Ver-
cun iront in ueau Alans mil district wan nam n inning, uurmg me
ighting today two Germans surrendered, asserted to be the only surviv
es in an entire trench.
MF.RLIN, May 4 French obtained fool hold position occupied
by German advance post south-west of Dead Man's Hill. Attack of
Germans west of the hill was repulsed.
LONDON, Mav A James Connoly, styled commandant general
of the Irish republican army, is here
was reported yesterday. 1 1 tree leaders wire shot instead of lour.
Otcilly, another leader, reported shot while attempting to escape.
1'iody was found near Msto!fice.
MARSFILLFS, May 4 More Russians landed here today.
HONOLULU, May 4 Santo Domingo, of Dominican republic.
is rebellious. United States takes a Hand. Admiral v.aperton is told
to preserve order. President J inline, who has been impeached, refuses
to appear for trial. Naval department instructs Capcrlon to see that
government is maintained.
Dr Sun Vet Sen returns to China. Japanese dispatch declares that
exiled leader has joined others against Yuan Shi-Kai.
Mrcakwater at Kahului will be
alile action Irom Senate committee,
ays cable received by Kuhio this morning.
Many application for probation officer's job.
Six bottles of dope found in safety dejiosit vault. Seizure of
Geilers at Waterhouse trust company
HONOLULU, May 4-Plantation wins right of way for a rail
way to Kapaa. dovernor 1 inkham
dmits solution of Koloa water
may begin as soon as documents are
Probation Ollicer John Anderson has resigned. Name is
with tangle of big Chinese estate.
Territorial marketing division
will be sold at from 14 to 15 cents
WASHINGTON, May 4-Germany leaves United Slates to de
cide on ni lure relations. itai submarine issue is said to be sligutcd
in reply to last note. Semi-official rcrts that demand made by Presi-
dent vv iison nas been deliberately
indicate that rupture is likely to
ominous. It has been pointed that
Merlin says procrastination will not
Announced yesterday that text of German note is practically ready for
transmission to Washington. Neutral nations favor attitude of United
States. Committee on foreign affairs has indefinitely iostponcd all
action including those dealing with
Committee docs not think this the
peace and war.
(Continued on
in prison wounded and not shot as
continued. It has secured tavor-
ixaiiuiui west hreakwater approved
unearthed morphine.
grants request ot Lihue Company.
problem satislies. Construction work
signed.
linked
will open retail meat shop
Meat
ier pound.
summed, prompts administration to
come any day. Situation is now
President Wilson in his note to
be tolerated by the United States.
F.uroean and Mexican affairs.
right time for expressions on
Page Five.)
