She
Jstm.
THE WEATHER.
Cloudy to-day; fain to
IT SHINES FOPv ALL
ate shift)
Highest temperature -yeW
Petallpd fii ttier. null and m n
PRICE TWO CENTS.
VOJ,. LXXXIII. NO. 248.
NEW YORK, FRIDAY, MAY 5, 1916 copyright, 1!1, by tlie Kim MutlKp ami Publishing Association.
WILSON 0. K.'S
AGREEMENT ON
HUNT FOR VILLA
I'iditl( Cordial Coopera
tion of Carrana anil
I'. S. Force.
TIIOOl'S NOT TO CO.MK
OCT OK MEXICO NOW
Wi'Misi.Tos'. May I, (Jpii. Scott was
l ui ted hy Secretary or War Hake."
tniivht I" notify ticn. Alvaro ObrrKon
tut licsiilont Wilson pnllrply approved
the teptrie aiTipemcnt drawn up nt
pir border lOtifetenci-s
T i' I rt.ilotit Issued thp following
na'e UCIlt
I I up i.x.in iic.l with the Secretary
of V i tap rpport in.iile hy Hen. 1 1 tic h
t, Sett of tho conference between
litn and (ipu. iiiirogon, Secretary of
W ,i! of Hip llepuullc of JIuk-ii,
T',' rcpnit includes a Ipntatlvi
ac ipinpiit iov critic tho futuie opera-
tion of botn thp American nud Mcxl
ran nvlll.iry forces and evidences ior
di.il looppiatlon between thp two Cov
eriiiiiints .n their poinmon purpose.
Ah (his agreement Is being submit
tnl to thp do f.irio Onvornmeut of
Mexico. It would not hp proper for inc
tn pprmlt Its publication until that
Cut mniPiit Inn-had an opportunity to
examine and consider lln provisions.
Tin' fall text of thp proposed ngiee
m 'nt will hp kIvpii nut Immediately
upon its uiocptnnce hy hoth i Severn
mem. In general I nu s.i that tt pto
vdes a basis of cooperation which
p-p.inlcs to prpvput iiilsunilcnstiindlng
ml trPiiEthi nx thp cordial rotations
of tho two republics.
I'lnnl I'lMiforonoe onr,
Pendlnc the. receipt of formal Infor
mutlon that Carr.itiza h. accepted the
tKrctmcnt, Its terms will not bo made
ruMIc here. It Is assunml hy "ttlelals
that h soon a (!en. Scott iocolos III"
ln'tructlons and learns that ubrt con has
heard from Carranz.i, he will ni-amse for
& final ,'nnfcioncc for th" e. hanse of
mt'flcatlons.
It Is understood that follow Inn thc-e
IX iuinses Seeretnrj of State l.alwlllt
lh prepare a formal note to the Car
rarza (!overnmeiii m rep to Foreign
M nlster AkuiIiiv's suKBtftl Mi t nit the
n iioernineiils treat for a withdrawal
of liio Anieitean exnpditlon.
This note will flute that Inasmuch a. i
tJ e milltarv eonferences on th boitl. r '
hue resulleil In a mutual unthistnndlui; Antonio.
toitmr to ronpTMiioir Iwtwpen th-fnrces I 'H boly reuneietl thU afler
i.' i. two ili.vetiinientf.. it would -ein I """" ''' "'tachment in search of him
n t . "ssnrj
lit till-- l.ilie to undertake I
At i d ploniatn
l I'll. Mil of
in t ntii;enit Mis
the NtPnln'ctlniri
- d entire s.iiifju.tiuii lo-day with
ti-tns of the Si ott-t ilireRo'i acree.
' At his intifotence with the 1
, I
fii i ' ' , ' T
fu'l iletnleil lepott rceivtil last
f
i!rn. Scott. The President
i.l to have expips.xpd himself a
uhlj satistled.
A' tin White Ilnii.se It was declared
jn; M'ic.i.'.y that the aKieement iIock
ii.' pi ihl for a withdrawal niovonieni
of Mi.. t.nnp at tilth time and impose
I.o t nif i-init on the presence of the ev-it.liii.i-
i Mexico. The whole putpose
ii'e.i ii ' i was statfd. Is complete co
.PM.r..'ii lieiweiti the fnices nf the two
ti..v. meets in the llii.il suppression tit
l.e" hard ts.
I e nf llnllrinids.
fii .f the . oin-esstotis made by fibre
r' " was said. Includes pti mission
fv i lie use of tho Moxlc.ui railroads In
pniv .inlnif the American force-
"I'l.-iaV hole expect the cooperation to
I'fsin on as the asreenieut Is rati-!-1
' arranza forces in larse numbers
I l.'-ni In move UK.ilnst tlie VIlliMus
I'.'tr t ii south As. they drive the Ikui
ih's cithwatd lb.- Ameiic.tii forces will
! .li.iwn gradually hack, the entire plan
i.' "-uu fni tho malnteuaiu'e nf a moving
("il ilmui the banditti I'nder no clr-
I'litnst.incii.. it I said, will tlie American
'r.n, hp withdrawn entliely from Mex
I'O until Villa is taken dead or alive and
huso ..f his fnllnwei s now in arms are
dw rnl
'I'd. 1 ik di-s;iatclies tecrlved at Ihe
W-f I it paituient finin Hen. Pcrslilnir
t te that alt'ioiiuh Ills lio.ulqu.il tern and
" lm!k nf Ins inmm.ind am at N.nnt
i'pi iibcit 1mi mlloH south nf Coliim
' is. N M. lift. , led loltluuis under
''1 fi - liodii ,)nl Ihwni in o opctHllis:
' in ,i base al Mlnaca, slxtv miles fur
'Ii. i ., itli. Cr .in the dearth of it ports
" uv.. nn"c the bordt-r conferences he
f" t it. assimied theio has been little
'i' "i ,inv kind
.... , ., .. , , ,i
I ..- la If.i ni.-i.t.r.i.fn,riil h Hiilulr.fi rtf
it-,, ii I, . . . , , i
, , . '"'I' '""'" Is m-Uinc Hue of the
". 'r'. . .s In the I, campalKii to
valuable information ciinceinlnc
i' l ib- Mltitil.- tl-alisiini-tutloo. In.
"bile supply transportation. In
. ' ihe 1 '.use after Villa ami tho
' t th.. Mexican Onv nituent here
t ' pn nut thp u-e of ihe railroads
ii tin- iirui.v a tot.il of neatly Snn
s ii',-. 1 uu the Iwcnt.v -self n avail-
I. i'i'i il... . 'ins., lift,.- Vitt . ...i.l tl. n
" "I. I I I. HI. II. 11, f. II... r.f ll.r. pu.l.Aq.lu
r'i
fl.l.
CT :
t tne the i-xprdlllnn was or-
.1
bitruoi- TrimUs I ruinl,
'' '11 nil the tru -ks pur-based
f top and a half caji.icitv The
I ... .. ss.i..l,-ition has reconi. 1
p.
Mm.,
I d ti, ilie W-r rs pirlment live ton 1
' the ,,.. tv-pp. 1
v i.i 1 id uf otlh ers nhhli passe el on 1
one irn, has 1I1 pl. d (hat while the 1
t"i, upp 1. petliaps mure suitable
"' que
t I I'M,
'r ,,
l-'ieb l'
hr ;,B
' nUlK
'f h . 1
"u'. :,
' ' , t .
truiis-isii Litlon 11I0111; cood I
.1 ! : .i I u 11 in tniiclt reiiintry
itii 1 pref.'t at'le, .p.r
i's'i'inh a Ihe bieakihiwti
unit in a li.tui nf trucks
ite s-lienH If the trucks were
1 k' .-.t-i 1. in In otder that a
. il le-t uu. be male, however,
nt 1 1 let nc.isip, irenerHi's 1i1.1si.n1
"i. ler. l n vi nil addillntiil trucks
11 . 11, if i'tituielii.'H nml (vpp.
I ..
PI
SCOTT Sh'h'S omiKcns.
P.vi
"els I n-1 root Inns
onli reiiees Will
1'vso. Mav I ilen
soon
n nil
lilt On,
Scott paid
10 ip.n 1 iliu unn In his pilvale car ,
i-e Ih.s .itict- n. He was iiccoin-
d le I, a ul -Col Mlohio his old
t ' i.-ti Hen Snitl iI.cIiimiI that
'S'
V"..
' ..inil.. .iifn mil It is niil, how-
''' ' 11' hi -,Velt fnt till- lllirpose. of in. I
'.".11 ,. ip.n 1 inreuoll lliot tie oxpecto.l
' 'iiiitioiin from tsii'tipton In a
;' 1 Hen 1 itui-iron 11.nl eviili-nced
ii -i' 1 1 ni resilessiiess at tli" delay In the
I'tion 11' official I'otift iciiccs.
1- "i b hefoiP (ien, Scull's call tier
uwto!i mid ihut h had laclvcd a long
ni"WiRi' coutaluluK Instructions from
Cnrraiin n ml (lint II was helm? decoded 1
by Ills private societal)'. As (ho men
sices owr the Mexican wires tne not
:ih carefully coded as those sent hy tlcn.
Soutt to Washington, It was expeiicd that '
I would hi' some time before the hips-
-IRC- would ho ro.idy for Hon. OhtesMii'si
coiishlot-aiinii.
lien, Obrenou tccclvvil (ho Iniorma-1
t Ion thin afternoon In his press ties- !
pilches Hint tin- imn onicnt between him
self mill (It'll, Scott liuil been satlsfnc
lory in Washington, lie would make no
comment, hut seemed pleased. Thin af-1
Iitiiooii, with his wife, hp mo(orpil toi
1:1
Paso on n shopping tour, Later hp i
ninfvriril with (!pii. CkIIpm, coinniainlcr
in Sonora. CallPK has Iippii imIIpiI to
Mi'Xlco city for a conferelicp with Ctr
iiinr.a. With (Sen. oliteuou at n mnruliiK con-1
fprptico of Hip .Mpxloan iiuthorltleK wrrc i
Adolph dp la lltlptta. the now civil Oov-
crnor of Sonora; lien. Si ratio, chief of.
staff. Con-iit Anilrpjt (l.ircla and Mayor'
I'rleto of Juarp. ;
The Mexican (icneralK nip nouitn hat '
ImpatletK oPt the delay and unxlous In j
hr lim the confi renpp to a cIojp. Thplr
train Is In rcadiiiPMi to travp within I
a few hour?
I Vl. ttl.W. I... J t.n.. .t... i... I
' lco N'orthu pali.iti I! ui.-. vi.l il ., i ul.lt, ,o,.t !
i hy Hip depot tpiartc rm.ixter In HI I'aoo
I consigned to the Aiueilcan army in Mex
' .eo would ho made. The railway official"
rtalPtl thp new ihlpmcnti If nuthnnzptl
nronatil!' will lie In the luiure of com
lucicial ithlpuietit, as the.'p Hepuit lo hp
no likelihood of (here holnc any proviso
l.i the new ScoK-UlueRoii aitrccment foi
'I -talllnc new cnulpinent or the inannliiK
of the traliiM with American crews.
A litter rcceled help from the front
aid that at San Antonio, Mexico, there
aro now live reKlmpiits. of cauilry. two
i rt-slments of Infanuy and three hnttcrlps
. nf artillery. The mountains around San
Antonio are a hunter's paradltte. the let
tor ."tntpt, mid thp Kiilden with the troojis
at this hasp ImiuKlK In thrpc dpcr ami
j a lame number of duel.it on a rpcpnt
. huntlni; trip and there wa.i a feast
at headquarters,
U. S. ARMY SCOUT
KILLED BY BANDITS
I!mI of I'. II. Holly, (lin e Cut
tle Puncher. Found Xenr
Villistns' 1 1 11 ii 11 1 s.
ii Ki:oii(ii: ii. ( i.r.Mii.M s,
Sftfntil Cotrfsportiltrtt o' Tut:
llK.Dqr.i;Ti:i:s I'imtim; Km'Kpitiov,
Ni:aU NAMtyt ll'A, Mexico, May .1. via
radio to Columbus. N. M.. May 1. I".
II. Molly, a resident of III Paso. Tex.,
who formerly lived at Iluhlllos. Mexico.
wluie hp operated a larse cattle ranch I
and farm, and who has been actlnc as i
scout foi thp American forces under'
Cen J'eishliic. was killed .vosterda.v :
afternoon while looking for sIkiis of VII-
llstas in tlie vicinity of Itublo, about
forty miles south
twpnty - tio miles
of this camp and !
northeast of San
"lieu 11 was ni.-coveien no .win ..i.-muc
II is iieueieti inai iiony was a vicum
i of a small hand nf Villistas.
It was from Itublo that a bind o
Vllllsiiis under Pablo l.ope. sallied
forth the nlsht of January 11' last to
make an attack on the train rarrj lug
oinplovees ,,f the Cusihurlachlac tnlninp
.......... i .i. ....i...i i.. .i... ..t '
nlreteen Americans. j
Tlie little town, or lather the had-,
end.i. has lone boon known as a resort
nf Vllllsta leadets In this section nf the.
State of Chihuahua. Soldiers and scouts
have been warned acalhst appearlnc In,
the vicinity without takini; ureal pre
cautions iiK.ilnst surprises. Holly was
noi far from Itublo when he was killed, i
lie had rendered valuable setvices to (he '
a ruiy i
HAFFER LIBELLED WASHINGTON
.lnr Holds lllili (Jilllt-
fler
I'niir lln i'rlnl. 1
Taisim.v. Wah, -May I - Paul 11 Haf-
fer, who leceutly wrote a letter to a I
newspaper refeniiiK to tieoiue Wnslilnc.
ton as a "hlaf phenier," "slav e holder" '
and tut "Inveterate drinker" was found
Kiillty of Itbelllus Waslilir-ton s memory
by a Supeiior Court Jury here last nlcht
The maximum penalty for the otTence,
luuler a State statute, is one year in
the coun(y Jail, a line of $1.00", or both.
The trial hiHted for four days. Col. I
Albert K. .loab. an iittorney, caused Haf-,
fer's arrest af(er (he lelter had been
published.
$2,500 NECKLACE SEIZED.
JeMclrj. lllelllHll ( llliruod Willi
Purl In -Hull Wokoii llnlilior.
Itobert II IlroRaii, fin .vears oUI, a
Jewicry saleMiian of ti"5 llinlhon slieet,
was aVresteil thete last niKllt alter de
nctlves and post otllco Inspectois. uctliiK
on a M-arch warrant, found In bin safe a
peail necklace valued al I2..HM'. which
I they bolleveil wan pail of (no loot Moien
until man poucius en i.-mv ..,-
i"" ... , .,
iiiunuiavv to tn h city on i-enruaiy
" '"J ' ' w VharKed i,h havliiK ,
. ..... .. ' o. ..r..i .-imImi frnm the
tnl.l the detectives and Inspectors.
man,
said, that the ornament was left
they
with til 111 In Mairii ror appiitiwii o a
1 man wiintsaiii no was r.uwani .1. wi .
" ... ..... .
. ...
,in Klviiw thin name was arietien in
Ualtlmore last liiontn on a cnarne 01
linvinu HOii.nnn worth of the stolen se-
.Kitties, in li s nosnes" on,
The salesman, who lias had a clear
If curd, said that he covild prove that
other Jewejiy seized by the deteotlvrs last
niKllt was obtained by hlni In leuitlmate
transactions. AccordltiK In PoBt Otllce
Inspeclnr Jiirol.. $S.0ftn wuith of Rcms
were tahfSi. together with about IBSI.nno
In stocks nud bonds. Thoiuiis Penson and
Louis Wandler line also been arrested
In connection with the robbery.
SALE OF 2 jCENT FUEL DOUBTED.
Surprise nl Kuril I'liuit nt llrporl I Chairman Mjers untKosled that the
... ii. i...i... 11.. 1 I Supremo Court was always bandy lo
, f l.iirllil-Miilm Ileal. ,,,,,',1 to,
I'lITi'iiiT, Mav I -There seemed In he "The Supremo Conn would hit abol
stitpiise mixed with Inonslullty around 1 H,p, If II favored Die rillin.iihi," said
tli; liuine office" nf Henry Ford here , I'lesldent Smith. "look what happeneil
t when the news was received by leie -
Kiaph from Now Vork to-day inai me 1
M. I... M 11 nil inns. Corptiralloii hinl
houKlit Ihe inanufacturli'K rluhts, llled
1111 application fur a patent and hud pur
chased a factnr.v silo upon which lo
manufacture Louis Lnrlcht'H "two cent
a (,'iillon itreen Kasolene."
..n.. i ......uilnn 11'ne.llier or not
I '
1 llieie in ......-... - --
a 1 1 nt Knricht rheap fuel lihu has been
,.,ild In the Maxim Munltlnn.s I'orpoia-
Hon," Mr. Ford's, private secretary said
io.1l.1y lo nowKiaiior mop "All I know
about tho mallei Is the short statement
in a newspaper
"Wo have been evpeilmsailinK with
I ,l fuel nt our Lorn Island City
branch for several weeks.''
"Have you found the new fuel a suc
cess?" wan iiHked.
"We am not prepared lo clve out a
ilelalled statement about our tindlitffs
ab jet," was tho unawcr.
0 D ATT WAVO OATinilT
U UrtlLIIrtlO OUUU111
TO DIVIDE ALL DIXIE
HIM IS
Uend in Kffml to
Show I.. & X. mill Southern
IMnnned Control.
smith, an. ox
s'r V I) '
. '"
Two I'lrsidiMits I'om'iI
"PiniTo" imtl Cortez"
( iiiTespitnilence.
its
ni
Wasiiinotox, May Milton II.
Smith. jrars old, piesldent of the
I.oulsvlllo ii nd NaMivlllp Itnllroad, np-
I'catt ll
a" n witness hpfoio Chairman
! .M.xers of thp Interstate Commerce Com-
mltslon to-d.iy In an Invcstlnntlim the
I commission Is conducting Into the Ilium,
i clal nffuiiit of that rallio.id.
1 A spiles of leticis was put in the rec-
nrd h; Chief Counsel loll( written by
Presltlent Smith to the late Samuel Spell
ed, president of tlio Southern Mailwaj.
These letters, beglutiliiK in February,
IS'jS, are likely to establish for them
selves a iimtiie place In rail nail history.
President Smith styles himself "I"
zarro" and Samuel Spencer "Cortez."
I'nder tho names of these well known
Spanish coiniuolors the letters describe
thp plan, for the division of the .South I
between tho liuls.lle and
i.nV,.. i ... i . i U ,i .
...........ii ,,,ii, ,nu .-tv.i.iii it i. tiin nf . , ,
the successful proitriss of these plans In,
tlie bulldlni: of the two sv stems. ,
It wah not explained Just what the I
jcode words meant or whether they were I
Intended lo convey a ineanlliK. There Ik
no doubt ubuilt a t-erlous plan In divide
the territory, members believe, although !
the two presidents might have been hav - 1
Iik their-little Joke about It '
Hint In divide Ihr World.
B apiiointment (he (wo mllroad piesl
tleills lne( al ICenesaw. (5a.. the letters,
show, ami talked over tho tllMsInn The1
llrst letter, adilrerscd to Samuel Spence., I
president, Southern Itallw.iy, An Broad
way. New Vork, heitins as follows (
liz.irro How shall wo divide the
new world''
Cortez I will lake Xnilh America t
and ou can have all of South Am-
erica. eiept , and neither of us ,
will do auythliiK to the Isthmus with
out notice to and cooperation of the I
other. (
I'lzarro While I'ataEonia Is not a I
Verj I.irco or Itnpot taut pari nf the I
world, jet, perhaps, .t s as much as
1 can tote I
The loiter then Roes on and tlescrilies
In detail the roads to ho secured by einli
of Hie systems anil llnanrlal nrrnno-
"'ents (o do made The next letter, ad-
ill-eased lo M. II. Smith, niorldeiit. I
N. It. I!. I.nuisitlc. Ky.. bcBins :
Vum-.-Wui-nf -th-alwliint.
Plzarro Since our last conversa
tion, (ho division of the new world
between Us has made some prnKiess.
t'ortoz Yes, vou seem to have ac
ipilicd Patagonia anil 1 have s.s iirod
a considerable pall of N'orth Anu-iic i
which touched my foi met terrltoiy,
but It seems to me that you liave ac
tpilrcd a oonsiiler.ilile neck nf Hut
isthmus, which Is Hie cnnnectliiK llni.
between us Was ,t imdi-rslniid that
pniuiectlni; links which touched both
of us should be a m. liter of consul
tation before ai-tlnr; or not"
I'lzarro
"Plzarro ausweied not?'" queried
Chief Counsel Foil.
Ilniv Tlie Wnrl.rd.
Prisident Smith nodded with a broul
crin. and Mr Folk road several ex
tracts as follows :
That neither the I. A. N. nor thn
Southern shall acquire lines in the
teiillory of the other and that lines
oonneiihiKT with or touchhiK one an I
not the other shall be reganlcd as In
the territory of tho one which they
connect or touch.
Thar neither will acquire lines allied
by former ownership, lease or other
wise lo tho other and which at the
moment mo not controlled by reason
of Pentium reoiitanlzatlon or other
cause.
That neither will acqulie lines which
connect with or touch both, either
dlrtctly or through subordinate or
controlled lines, without pievious con
sultation, and If possible agreement
That neither will foter tho con
struction of new lines or tho com.
plctlon of unlltilshed ones in tlie terri
tory of tlie other, hut when questions
with refoienep to such linos arise we
shall pun I b.v am i-euieiit with each
other. If possible.
This was nnsweteit b a letter f'-nm
"Plzarro,' vlilually acneliiK to the
terms laid down by "I'ortez"
I'teslileut Smith later ill .Match, ISl'll,
wroie a lelier to lieshleni fsjiencer
KtntlUK that ho had JnM lecelvd a
cnnlideiitlal 1 omniuiilcallon soitini; forth
that the Tennts-ee Coil and lion and
lt.1llro.11l Company was IIkuiIiik o a
certain extension' and he enunted on
President Spencer to head ii off
Chief Counsel I-oik "ndoavot cd In Rot
' the iletnlls of sum.
nf the transactions,
but to Hourly all
questions President
answer
l- of III VI I lid.
151111111 mtiiii"! o
, i;p Plec
1 1 n-n.i. h. .nmui ,n.- iui.- m .1
1 ta(enient refericel to the commission as
. "
! "Vou mean Hint we aie a political
body in tlie sense that we must lepoit
lo CoitKiess,' said Chan nun .Mji-is
"Look al thlx pioceedliut." said Pus
1 blent Smith with a litoail kiiii. "A Sena
(or fancied lie had a itiievnni.e aiialnst
'a railroad and Inlioduceel a lesoluiloti
. ciIIIiik for an inicstlKatlon. and It was
I adopted in the Senate by unanimous
1 consent when onl fourteen out of
I ninety-six Senatois weie present.
I "Vou do not dare lo favor the rail
' roads If you did .vou would be -abo.
I islied." s.ilil President Smith
1 ,n the I'niteil Mates 1 iniinieno i.uuii,
lieslileui nuiiiu anmiiieii
that the
Louisville and Nashville lent niiinev In
Southern States when Ilis-Ir licisiirles
weie mil usi illnwiiiit. Chief Counsel
Foi'' placed In the rei ol ds statements
slinwini; that I ho Louisville nud Nash
ville had lenl tho St lie nf Alabama
throimh the First National Hank of
IllimlnKham U' I !','"' In IIML' and a like
sum In I'.'IK
Chief Coiuistl Folk asked President
Smith if the charier of thn railroad
permitted It to lend nnmcy, ami President
Smith refer toil Cuiinse Folk In Hie rail,
road's allnnie.vH fur the Information,
Mr I'nlk stated that the Inans did nut
appciil- nn the bonks nf tho cnuip.iuy
as such
"We loan mono) to industries, iilonu
our line." volunteered President Smith,
"to I'I'lP Ulelll .'ll'Mlfc', and whi-itj It
proitu;d Irainc."
lorimer to run for senate.
l'tlllttrt, Will l'n Deltts, Thru
Hook (n llounln onl.
CtltcMio. May I.- William lorimer is
iik.iIii a candidate for I'tilled Slates
Senator.
Actpilttttl lat nmltt of charges of em
i.fzzleiiipiit and conspiracy In connection
"lib the coll ipsp of the l.a Salle Slrret
Trust and S.ivUiks ll.inii, nf which ho
was fiittiililzcr and piesldiut. the e
senntor hpu.ui to whip l.ls huslntss nf-
shape ptpllmlnarj to reenter-
me politic, i iiitlininir his plans ho said;
"My first eflorts, as I stated to III" i
.lory wlilch ac(Ult(ed me. will Is' to IP-,
4.ay to ileposUnrs tho money tlipj lost
In tho crash of t'-o bank. I bollce 1
know the properties which have lit en In
nlvrd In tho hank failure better than I
the receivers and other ciltlcs, nml
-vlllilii a year I can p.i off eviry dollai
J I owe as a nsiilt of tho hank falluie.
, Then my aim will be to ice'.t reelection
j to the Coitfil States Senate and rPKaln
I tho spat I once occupied In that hod."
$20,000,000 PLANT IN VIEW.
Irtlnu I. Itlioll lllsflisses
Inn Willi i
llniiinio Oflloliils
II vvos sr., N .1 . May ( -A .'onferetue
f the Ilayotilie t .ty connnls'lnneis and
memlieiM of the Ciiamher of Co.il'iltrce
with Irvi.iit T. Hush, iresiihsst of te
Hush Ternilnal Coinpanv, yestcnlav ip
suited In Mr. ltiih iicrpplnc to oonsttuct
a $:n.non.(ino plant on the New York
Hav shore, from Thhty-thlnl street
11.1 mine, to the Jersey City line, (no
vldlnij the proposition mepls with the in
ilor.utnent of the people of Hayonne and
thp propprt ran hp obtained at rea
sonable (Inures
ti.ti.ti.. ...... ......... . .... .
vfm(11, u...,r ,,ian 'coluln.
mated. The prjpnwed tcriuiiial would hp
dOUIlr
the size of the one in llrookljn.
RICH YACHTSMEN BUILD
BOATS TO GUARD COAST
Pltil.iileli1iiiili' Cl'iifl Will
Curry (hiii; to Sink Kiiemy
Sobiinirine.-.
J Putt r.:t nil v. Ma.v I --Pr.i ate vaehls
i so constructed lh.it lhe can tin coist
I' patrol service .n time of war are helm;
built In accords ii ce with Coveimnetit
specltlcatlnns fur "half a d"Zeti wealthy
Phllailelpht'ius who helteve in lielpluc
j out on national defence The e-spl
I will he made for speed, will cntr.v nuns.
I wireless and a pone-ful se.irehllcht.
I 'litose for w html tlv'se boats are belnc
'made .ire IMnai.l T Stntostiur. John
It Fell. John Price We'.heill!. Jr.,
Samuel II t'ollotn Samuel P Kiddle i
and Anton hlers. I! of the irafl will
j have heeit completed l the nildilb' of
summer. They wdl be eullsted In the
ifSnverntneiit reserve and shale In Ihe
tnvlll.'iT1. Tnlnlng'vntt-e arnitiSrfr-ny the
Navy Iieparttuent for Ihe last of Atuuft j
I noil tne nesinnnu i epietnoer
The vessels will be manned In- tra.eed
senneti from the Cnlted States navy
i and will lie ditivtlv under 1.1011111.11111 of
I their on nets, upon whom the rank of
1 ft'siKti will he 1 n 1 f. rr i'il li the I5nv
' ertinient
I In time of war the v.nlits will In- e
I pei-ted to help in the kind nf work now
' b Itm ilniie by pi ivalelj nwiied vessels
ill IhiKland. whnh are patrnllliu: Ct.;
icnist watctilim for subniirlnes It Is
said the Herman undersea boats hive
j found (hose a,-hts 'he'r sroatest
I menace
The lapd fire uuns on the de k of
' these varbts will cast ,1 3 pound shot.
1 which will do spitous ti.itnaae ,f il strikes
1 a submarine The nnh way tint a
, submarine could att.t k the v.iiiit". ac
1 rordltiK to M' W.itjs. would be hv ri.
' lint to 'he surface nml RotUns its uuns
1 Into net on Put while 111 tlie process
of rls.ns I' w iild b absolutely at the
I mrry of the ja.-bt he asstits
BRANDEIS REPORT MONDAY.
I ill III 1 1 1 Iloeliles in ,ol Cnae He
I'onubt Olll III M'lillle.
Wvsiiisotox-, Mi) I Th" Senate,
I'niiunlitee on .ludbinrv prohiblv willl
teport the 1n1ml11.it iivii of Loin P. Ilran
dels to the Senate on Mmid.ij, or soon'
afterward, without an.v reconinienda
llon. ll is iuiposhi.. to i:et a favorable
n-iiorl with the present .'iimumoiit of
tlie committee hu. Senatois who are un
willing to xite fit .1 favoi.ihle n port
ale readj to vote to lepori It without
rcrouimciidutl.in and allow the Senate to
flKht out the uif on lis meiltn
JUDGE LINDSEY ILL.
Willi, lie ss 11 oil lllull I 'el el- I'iiIIimv
Operallnn for 'I'liiiitir.
Iil.NViT. May I .Indue Hen Llndsev,
who has made a national reputation
throuKb his adjudication of Juvenile
crimes, Is critically ill at Ills renldetice
here
About n week ni;o be was operated on
foi a tumor In hi hick Ills condition
has hei 01110 weakei, accompanied by a
IiIkIi fiver
COSTS HIM .$6,000 AS JUROR.
Ilvvlnu, Silver lliilnn liliiu, I'nx
I'ennlt.v for I'lilrlollsin.
DnNvcn, Ma.v -He ma 1101 he a
hero or wear a medal for II, but I. A.
Cuing, the silver inlnliiK kmc of llouhler
county, deserves one, for Mr. lOwliu:
without cruiiililluir is saciiflcinir suine.
t II 1 11 f? like lii.OOO 11 week llirntllth pall I
eitlo motives to do Ills duly as a roo1
citizen.
Veslerday Mr Mwinir was accepted as
a Juror for the tn .1 of Atoiir.o Pickens
at llouhler, who Is charged Willi slavinn
his father, a wp.ilMy Lonsmont banker,
last winter.
THE CHICAGO CANCELS TRIP.
I'reueli l.lner Won't l.enve llor
ilenni To-iiinrriMV , n Sphnhileil,
I'aiiim, Mtty I An ollliiiil announce
nienl was niailn to-day thai the Fienchiof fieluiid
Dun sleantshlp Chicago, schidiileil to
leave liorilenuv for Now Vork on Ma.v ti,
will not sail, Mull will lie pent throuith
ICngluiid Instead.
Moniv Milslordnin lleln 'nnue,
LnNPoN, May I. -A despatch from
11 t ...u tl, ,1 in,. L.-.lll,..- ..r tl.A
Holland - America Lino steamship
vii.nw Aioslcidam for New Vork bus
been istponod pi M.i)
have salbd April 29
i She was to
( itAM.i-: in timi: mav oiik i i.miiii. i
foiiiiin nritii: .vim itti, .siiutiiwesisrri
l.linlted will leave New York l:5n I' V
lintirnveil srevlee In Cltii-ltitnitl nml HI
. nils Fur other lli.tnten luiunill ni.-riit.
Mv.
ARREST SULLIVAN j
ACTDTOU DTATTHRi
lv-Diilomiil of Xcw York In
llritish .lull ('hiir&cd With
Aidin- Kcviill.
PA(5K TAKKS I P TIIK CASK
Sir
Ilnyer CiiM'iui'Ut Will
Tried by .lur.v, N'ot by
Cuiiit-iiinrtial.
He
i,,rifil r,il,lr Itupntrh In Tnr. Si s
1iMKi.v, Mav f.. It booanip known
estotlay that .lames M. HulllMin of Now
Vork. formeily Cnlted States Minister
... a...... t. I - ........ la. Mill,.
. 1IJ ri.tlllO I "'III! IIhU, H- illir'Hll III -
connection w.lh t'lo Sinn I'eln 10-
olt, and that ho wa at once trans-
ported In llnqland, wh"re he Is now ,
held i
The arrest nf the American ex-dlplo-1
mat bad been kept a seeiet h the uu
IhorKles, bill (be news became known
(hroiiRh a leltpr from Mrs Sullivan to
Ambassador Piikc, naklm; (he latter to
Intercede In her husband's behalf
The American Ambassador promptly
commuulcited v. h 'he Forelsn Secte-
tary, Sir lMward liiey. Dtdalls of the j
chariiP on which Sullivan Is held mid ,
other circumstances renardliiK his arrest I
ate unrtiown At (ho Fot.lKn "
was cM.i.iii.ei, ...... .....j. ..... ..
Maxwell.
commander or i no u.nuar
"r'""i". must W conicunl-l'ierman
forces In
.atpd with I
cerfilni! Mr.
fore au ftntetueilt con- I
Sullivan's can-
nude
The corre-pomlelit of TlIK Si s Ms re
eelved liifniuiatlon from an authorita
tive source that the majnlil) if the lebel
,,, ..vcoii! the ringleaders, will
. not he tried by court-martial, bticwlll be
j interned for (he remainder of the war.
Arctrdlni! to tho moinms newtpajHis
I He tleiav In the tilil of Sir liou-cr Ca...
! ,m.n( is to no (raced tn lh fail that his
I. . .ii ..... i... . . .iiii-t. in. .rtlnl. us in the
f the thrte leailelS lit tllp loVOIl
who have b.tli executed, but a civil tii.il ,
eitli a Jr. since ins arresi nc.-iiiie.i
prior to the declaration of martial law.
linpoitiiiit evidence Intend! d to estab
lish Sir linker's antl-llrltlsh actlvltlis
In llertnany Is isini eolleeled The pre
llmlnary proceedlnus au-alnst hint may
.... held in a pnllco iourt.
lllleinollt
i-l Wool..
Premier Asquith annoumtd In tho
lliilt-enf I'nminons that the tiovet-ntrent
would in.iko 11 statement on the ciu-os
of the Irish revolt next weil At
present, he pointed out. It was mil de
uriihle to siy ati thins mote. He as
sured the House that all appropriate
steps wile tak.11 to deal with the Itlsh
rebellion and Its 'nstlcntori'. " '
K.nK iStorij Has "ti' the follow Ins
teleuram to M.ijni-i ien Sit Jnlin Max
well, civinuanilliis: officer 111 lieland.
Now thai tho 1 e.ent l.nietit.iblo otit
bie.ik ha- la-en tltiallv quilled I wish
In e.xtitess to the .Milan! troops if
Ireianil. to the I5.1v.1l lii-h Cntist.ibu
lar and the I'llblni Metropolitan
Poii.e. in deep sen-e .if the whole- 1
heaitod ilevnlinn tn duty and th. t-plrit
nf soir-sacrtho with wlilch thtnuith
mil 1 luy ai(ed (iKonriB P.. I.
Sir IMvvnnl t'.il.-on. who slnnd lovally
hv the liuv. llllllellt IllloUlthout the re
bellion, 'nnk .iciaslnn vostenl.iy In lire
his tlrsi -hot at the Pi lino Minister 111
coniicctinn with the revolt. .Vdilros-nii:
a Cm. mist nit otitis the. Cisterite b ader
-aid .
'The liish icliellioii iiccutret' iltrouirli
m'.sJudJiiieiit and n. lliten. e. Prom. or
Asqlllth Used the braven JI tho Hoops
for .nii-rnm the neKhgi-ico .inn incom
petence of Ins own !".;ie.iuues
1 lespalches fi . .tn Uulilju s.i.v that in
d. vlilii.il snlplnu conlimi's in (in- Irish
e'.ipital Thei.. we'e sntno hns'; dls
(uthance.s In the ll.uvourt Mteel district
ililihiK the niK'n ftoni Tue.-da to
Wednexla.. Mi..t.ir 1 estiiciioiis have
hi en ilKlit.'iixl Some nf the thotoiiL'h-
f.ucs ale hlo.-ktil b.v Hoops, ami notioiiy
; Is allowed to pass without a permit.
I Ihisini'ss in I . u tit 1 11 Is Mill laritely
paialved Tin- qutotioti as to how the
damaue 1- to he cnvereil Is lieltut ilts-UK-ed
Is-tweeu th" milltarv and uvll
suilhiirllles T!u 10 M'Ciu.s tn be ,1 cetiei.il
ssumptioti. ih-spitchi-e. i-a.v, that the Knc
llsh tai.ives will fn.it the bill A hand
some UC.IS1II,. I..'l. ir . "
vi.i.ttu i tunic nt dlsiiisston Is the sui -
lender of aims. '.N'olind.i expicls etri at
1 suits, of the attempt to dlsaiin tho Sinn.
Felnets and Ihe I..11 kttiltes Maiiv hold1
a central disaiinlm; of all voiuinms in
tlie colltltl.V .IS Ileus's ll'V ,
Seiirrh of tho housi tops ami empty I
houses In. rc.nes th.. casualti wt dally.
Many dead snipi'ts ate bows, louud, but
the majnill) of bodies ate those of men,
women iituf ihildieu who wore hit while,
watchinK tlie ilithtlni;
Huron lliinsaii) Wmiiideil,
lMward linnkelt, II iron Dunsanjr.
was ridliisT in an automolillo while sl-iet
Ih'htlni; mi - coliiu- on ami was snot In
the face. Ho s lcenveiilut
iteports from Hie south and west of
Ireland Indicated that limine Is still on
In a small measure, further casualties
1 111 vl 11 u been recorded
The -.'i rnlit;; .XVn learns from Dublin
(hat the number of deaths in the hospi
tals alone lesultluc from Hie tiiolt Is
sA This lliture liniuilos Hil soldiers and
122 ii-bils
The Untlii ;;ciir wi tint Sit Itoster
Casement has expressed 11 wish Hint Sli
Kihvanl Catron defend him. It Is not
probable that Sir Lilwaul, the Ulster
leader, will accept
Tho Nationalists-, necm-dlnn to the
Dnlln Moil, will presw the (lovetnment
,tl an early date In dlsniui every man
in Ireland. The paper adds that tliey
iro quite Vilnius iii.ii the .Minimalist
volunteers should be disarmed vrovlded
Hie invernnionl dors likewise with tin
Clster volnnleers.
"The demand." ens the IhUlp Mull,
is. likely to raise a dltllctilt Issue In
Irisli politics."
sir llnlllieiT N nihil 11 llenluiia,
Sir Matlhow Nathiin has resigned as
I'nder Secrotnry In thn Chief Secretary
follow Inc the example of his.
stipeiior, AususHiie Itli toll. Sir Itobert
Chainlets-, foi met- tioveriior of Ceylon,
will Miccced hlni tempornril.v .
Parllamentaiy rfpnrl assnciale Lord
liethy, Hie Iti-rrultlnK Minister, with
t ln Inijiendlni; chaimes In thn Kovern
mejit nf Ireland.
II has develupeil thai James Cnnnollv,
1 ""'J ' ''oinman.ler In oilier' of
1 belllon. was not. as had been an-
I " c.,.., , , ,. ,. . ..iniuii, is
, In prison, sovetol.v woiiiiiled TliroiiKh n
tiilsunderslaiidinii: of Premier Asonltli'K
! announcement It whs said that he was
ilitoni; those shot lo death upon bolus
iimvicled of treason Those ncliially ex-
C'onlhiv.d uu Srcund Vttyt,
CAPITAL HEARS BERLINS TILL
HOLDS OUT ON SOME POINTS;
WILSON SAID TO FEAR BREAK
BERLIN'S 5,000 WORD REPLY
COURTEOUS BUT FIRM TO U 5.
Reiterates Pledge for Safety of American Voyagers, but
Insists on Regarding Armed Merchantmen
as Cruisers, Is Report of Note.
Hi:n:.i., v.a Amtetilam, May 5 (Fri
day). (ienn.iii' reply to President
Wilson's last word on siibmailnp war
fare will bp lialismltted by wireless
thiouiih (ho Snvvlllc, I.. I, station earl.v
thl.s inoi nlnir.
Tho Hiilv i
.".(uu) word Ioiik (ler
( oncesslons, but tanls
many makes
lltinly upon (he theory that ainietl mer
chatdmen are cruisers and will Im tiented
us such by the (Serman submarines.
(Sermnny's nnswer Is count ou, but
tttm. It teltoratps the former pledyes
to the I'nltid States for tho safety of
American passencel". It Roes at Rre.K
)( lto S(,,rni 0f t, ra,p, pn,,, n
,.r,.5llem wilson'o last communication
A ,i)nt wa madp n, ottlcM ,iu.,rters
i.ltp nt Kht that (lermnny. while not
, , ,,, ,.-,. ...a,,,!,.!,,,, ,h,.l ii
............ ....... . -
V boat attacktsl the French
iiaunei sieiuncr nu-s.-, -...ir- .u . .. ....
cuuhl neii'its-ife .,uiu m.. .... .........
i mil occur aR.itn.
The note emphaslos mine than any
previous communication the traditional
friendship between Ctormauy and the
Culled States and expit-.-ses IJermanys
eniphath desire tn preserve this friend
ship The cruet nl tnne nf tin- leph. H Is
said, iiinve.vs the seutlmolit that t!ei
many has done all she can possibly tin
In the wav of incetliiR Anieilca's tie.
nmn.ia lin.i III.U ll ll-.- .n
ileliod
i'leak I
between
(lie two uatlniis comes, ( s
Iiecatise the
I tilted States wants It ( ,0 lnt. .m..r,.ati Ihnbass.v. where the
s said to I. inch iiKaln "nlwoll f trans,,tinS the reply and put
blnckade, dlt.-etlnc lltlell- ,,,. It 1U , ,0 for trauitmisMOU to
vailous still unansweitd . vv.isliliiistoii was bei-un a( oiup. Tlie
The nolo
the lit Itlsh
Hon to the
American protest to dreai liiitaln
A spetial point is made In 1 ierman.v 's
reply, so an unofficial fort east s.,s. of
tho joint coinmunlcallon sent In Feb
ruaiv to til" lielllBtionl Poweis re.oni
Uieiiillni; the illsat mi" tr nllnKiihei of
nierpbantinen and statine that siirli met -chantnien
have. In the opinion of tin;
COMMONS ADVANCE
COMPULSION BILL
.MeiMire I'.ies Seeouil Pead
Inir W itli Only lid .Meuiliei-i
(ippiisiiii:'.
i'il 'ii'.V i(iitrl. 'e Tin x
l.iisisis'. May I The 1 onipulslon hill
paised Its second rcaillnv; t ns afternoon
, in Hie House of Common- The vote was
3;x aitniiisi St;
The 1I1 bate short .'il no setious opposl
ilion to the bill If tlie l.ab.uito mem
bers aro satistled. It was -leclaiotl. Iintus
tti.il compulsion Is not '.ntemleil
Minister of -Mumtloie l.lnvd Heorne
tnaile a powerful speech in favor of tho
measure
No couniry that lias f.ne.1 nulitaiy
peril was ever s,,ved without cotnpul
1 sion," he said. He as-mod the House,
'that no men would be taken from ."
isetitlal occupations, and continued
I "If there h,ul been a tresh dlv.sloti
Ion either side to iept.uo tho exhaneti-1
Itionps the bitile of Vpre would have
been 1 oticl ut vol) decldid.
"Wo ate not at the ,ml of our re.
1 sources "
1 Tlie Munitions Minister expressed con-
fldel tllllt the wotkels Would not np-
I pose compulsion, vv lib h, ho said, was
1 necessary The winkers, he added.
.
- . 1
d that this was the i.isi war and
Ibov knew "what vlctoty of Pi ussianlsin
means."
Mr t.lovd Ue.iiKe Insisted that com
pulsion wa imt tin unsistetit with liberal
ism and dciiiiH'i.n and said ho would
rather boililven out of the Liberal ji.irt),
even out if political life altouethel , than
have upon Ins conscience the le-pofsl.
Willy of iefulna the deuinnils of the mili
tary authorities for men which might
make all the si t IT nee, between defeat
nml victory.
Thts-o who asseite.l that If tli.- war
lasted until 1017 the nation could not
"slay the iouim" were bold Inaccurate
and injudicious, he ilniaicd lie bad
lonsultcd the leaditiK thunders uf the
1 '.unity and thos had not the least hesi
tation in allltinliie; thai howevei lotu;
the war lasted Hill.iin cnild outstay
ileiin.ni. and in any case It was wise to
rppl) its lull sttetiKlh forthwith
Iliehnrd Ptirnlnc Holt, a Laborlle
member, delivered tho first attack of
any consequence ucalnst Hie meastue
and moved Its rejection,
DISAVOW THE CHINA'S SEIZURE.
.
I r ,,,, ,,, tu H,.,..e l enloo.
TiiUnt Kriiin merlon 11 ship.
Lonpon, Mav ( -It is believed 'n
, diplomallc circles hero that the Hritish
i riovei nnienl will older the leloase of Hi
, Auslrlans and Hermann taken off the
Aiueilcan steamship China, near Slianic
hal, by the auxlll.ny cruiser Laurentic
and also will disavow the action of Hoi
captain of Ihe vessel
It Ih slated Hint tho American note
conceinluK Hie seizure points out Ihut as
the Teutons taken off would of necissy
have been innipelled to take another
ship at .NaKtisaKt, Japan, 111 ind.-r .n
. . . .,. ..!!.. .1... ,l.l. 1 1. ....!. I .
1 " V' '"" , , . 1 .,,
port.
It Is the ,1 pi t 1 1 1 1 11 nf the I'nltod
; Slates that the case is a parallel tn
I the well Known Trent case
U. S. MAILS SKMKD.
llrlllsh limit Holds I Hie I
i-riU VIII, nl Kills vv till.
Hkiii.in'. via London. May I
reil-
The ,
Overseas .News Agency si. ties thai a
llritlsli nitml bnat hold 110 Ihe Scan- I
diuaviiiii-Aiinii.au liner I'li-ilcril. III
at Klikwall on lite vva from New orl.
to Chiistlahiu.
Thp nrst class Amotlcm mails, q, ,,11
about 2,000 b.its, were taken athorc,
Ameriinti Uovei umeiit, (he status o( aux
iliary i misers.
The (ierm.iu reply was handed (o Am
bassador tieriird ii( tho ForelKti Ulllro by
Ir von .laituw. the Forelmi Mlnlstei, lit
t .:i."i o'clnok this iifternnnn.
Ch.inis'llo. vou Itothinuun-Jlollwi'E.
A 1 1 1 ill I :l 1 oik 11 iltzelidnifT. chief of the,
Xaval iieiiet.il Stall, and llr. Ivarl llelf-f'-rlch.
Secietary nf the Treasury, lo
liirned to I.erllti this mornlni: from army
1't adipiai ttis n the West, wltote (hey
had extended i onferences with the Kalstn
in inime.il. in Willi the iSeiman reply (o
President Wilson's note.
The note is expected to lie published
In tiirmany to-morrow morii.UR. It Is
one of the lntmi'st illplorintlc tincunieiits
of the war
The Herlln stock m.uket showed new
optimism shortly befoie clnslnit this
afternoon when it was teamed that tlie
note was to lie despatched to WashlnKton j
to-nlitht ;
The Imperial Chancellor l expected
to address the Hudijet Committee within
a few davs the (ierm.in leply.
GEHAIW HAS SOT!-:.
Illllltliss. I lorkh
'rrmislHIIiiu
lit I till. W.
WitrL I. Hie
I ho Iti'lil-,.
i KIIIOI.W.
In
linn. in. Mav I FoielKti Secietary
von .la ow handed the lierman rcpl
to President Wilson s mile on th"
submarine enntroversv to mhasador
i-....a ... -..Ill tl.lu nfln.i.n.,1.
,.,.r.,r,t iv-.il tli.. l!..rn..,M onto
. :it tii. t-'ow-lcti 1 itYi. e He w.tit at iiin-i.
embassy clerks were .pocted to woik
until .1 Lite hour m-niirlit.
W.th tho deliver) nf the note tn
Ainliassadur 1 b raid the FnrelEn ' 'ffice
announced the text nf the cnminunlca
: on Would be made puhlh iMliv Frl
bi.v P'j I Hittrt V..
SHORTAGE OF FOOD
IN ENGLAND FEARED
.Mor
1 Tonniiie Xoeded to Safe
irunrd Suiply. Sii s
liere-sfonl.
1 Lom.i,n 51 1) I Adtiilta'
. Charles H.-ie-fnid stated In the II
Lord '
ulise of ,
; I.nrd that iiiiIosh tin
tcpletion in Hritish,
j tonnnite was remedied the supply or mou
I would be oml.ini;or.d. Ho also requested
the iiivernuiei t to consult labor loaders
cm. 1 111111K in.. .his nf prnciirlnK more li-'t
Inners 1 1 littlld ships.
Karl CurjSoii I .old Pr.vy S'.i'. stated
th.it tlie whole Hi Itlsh mercantile marine,
whii n .miliums tn half the kioss tonn.ii;e
of the world, is now belne administered
hv the ii'iverntnent He said that 4.1
per n nt of the incieantlb- marine had
In en r .positioned foi naval and milltarv
pUtp.ises, II Iter cent Is now Cltl'MllK
foodstuffs, raw materials, -. for tho
1 !ov rnnie'd and the Allies, ,,,i is por
cent is operated hv the I Srlt I h owners
under vpivornnii ntal reuulallons.
lie stated that r.on merchant shlp ate
now beitm consttuctcd. The number of
hiii ill 1 rail iibb.l to the Hritish mercan
tile 111. trine Is more than "..Tiiili. lie slid.
Since the statt of Ihe war l.'ifl 0ne1.1v
ships had been dot, lined 01 captured bv
the Allies
Lit I t'urzon added that he would like
ti si,, a Kiciter rtsitictlnu of impntis in
onler t ' save spa,.,, tor absolute necessl -
lies, but in this the interests of the
1 'oinitii 'iis ami inoso 01 1110 .111es con -
ihcl
In order In save sp.uo by outline!
down the .iiiii.iiiit of lumliir imported, he
said, the 1 Inv eniuioiil ha- .111 unwed for
Can. nil. 111 lumbermen to , in,, n, Ihtitlaml
lo lilt lllitlsh tnubcl for sleepers, pi
props .ni l other nccesslt'.i l-Mt, en
hundred '.uinbei men. ho said, ale now on
the way to Ihuil.ind.
ASQUITH PRAISES THE U. S.
Mi Tills ( oniiir) mid spnln siivril
lleluliini I'miii smrv 111I1111.
.ri,i f nhlt icniHtf. . lit Tin s( s
I.0M..1N. .Ma.v I Piemter Asquith. ad
dressing the National i'iimuilt,e for Je.
lief In ltelmnni, io-.luy paid tiibiiie to
the "untlrlnj bunian'ty of Hie Cnlted
St. ilet," and added .
'Had 11 not hull foi the Intel v i.tio 1
of the Cnlted States and Spain It pr.it.
nh!) would have been a milltarv im
possibility foi Hie Allies tn have saved
the 1 nil piipulatntn nf llelitltmi ft oni
starvation
"The ivork done b those two tiatlixns
constitute;" one of the (lues! achieve.
incuts in the lii.si.,r nf humane tind
philanthropic m mi n, .at Ions
"III this 1'iiliiiectlnti it is aluio-l tin.
necessary to refer o the splendid piece
of oiiranUatlou performed by if
lloovei. wlilch Lord Curzon descillied
as Hie most 1 cm, likable illustration nf
quick, scleitiiilc organization known,
and I believe thai Is not exaitcera-
nun
Chan man lloovei' of ihe Atnei icon
Cniiiii!...,!..!. It; an r.ildic.":-. rah! ihe :.iia!
evpi iiditiiie fur fillet in llelu'titn and
nnilliein I'rance tn date was H112.
111111.11111) (ir ihls Ji:.,iitiii, noil had been
provided Ii. eh, nil) ami by si.ni,.,
1. nileioil by tlie Culled Stales, and an
equal anintitit bv the llrlttsh Ihnplti
MkmiI IS, 000, nun came from charliv
from oilier pans of ihe world, The
bilamn was pi'ovhbd b ei'iinuinlc
inoasurei. nf the 1 ntmiiisslun, li the sale
nl' f I and b) subsidies from the al
lied thiverniniiits
I'rossliiii Inissos 'J,,i,,T, I 'J I,
,ieeiil I illilr ll'ytntel In I lit si .
I.ONI"lN, V,l i',11. ,',,
rntiesponileiit of the (im,1 eioion.
sa.vs Hint the latest lii.tuinu ntllciul m
linill Ttuont nf I ho liu-s.an lussps h, m
the total o2 .'ri7.l2l.
(icrard's Knrccasl of Xotft
.Makes WasliitiLMon
IVssiini.stic.
WILSON AWAITS TKXT;
KKl'LVXOWOX WAY
Indication Is That Defence
Plans Will He Hastened
in fnnTcs.
WAY PAYKD FOI! .MOWK
XJXJOTIATIOXS. IS HOPE
"Concessions" Reported.
Iml Details Are Yariie as
to Herlin's Attitude.
WvsiiiMrrnN, May -I. C.orinany will
not yield iincnndltlon.illy to Prpsldent
Wll-nn's demand that .-ho iIpcI.ho and
eflect an liniiipiliuto .ihatidonnipnt of
her present methods of submarine war-
, fare. The situation was iiithoiitatlvoly
1U-01 il't-il tu-nlKlH n.s "critical."
1 Ambus-,, dnr iloraid at llerlm has
; sent a forecast of tho lierman reply,
1 ami althotisli he regards it as favor
1 able. It is so Involved and Indcllnlte
' that neither the President nor Seort.
tary nf State Lattsim; was able to form
a clear cnnci'ptliin of what f!prmany
' position 1 pally is. Tills In itstjlf his
I mailt an unfavorable liiipiessuui on tho
j President, who. it l.s unders-tood. ln
I sjsts on ilclln'tf and 11ne11ulvnc.il ns
' sur.cicos that tl:o Mibmariiio menace
n iion-t'oinbatiinls Immediately tease.
A cool tlitm to fiirccust.s that h.ivo
leached Washlii'-'ton, the Imperial
Cnvorninenl aiipiirontly stands lltni in
:t. ditermlnatlnn to treat armed llneis
as vv.irsTiliK. flerniany also makes Its
re;iiiimiis on submarine operations'
ilepondcn! nil miices-niiis .j trt
I'niteil Slates, but what thise ennce.--
slnn-
ire K nnt cieai. AIkivo all tt U
nut yt t
known vv hot her (ieimanv will
In hi ll- S'.ll'linr lllo no. rations in ol.ev-
laine pondlni; ilt.scu-.sion of cnnilillons
1 to win. h u ileslro.s the Fnltni Stuie.s
! tn ,lss, n;.
I
I'reslil,.,,, (i,,,lr .Xnlo.
I'laior tliM ... i-.. ,11., , ....... .. 1 ..1
u-u..,,.. hllMMI11 , , ,
11
rice.ves tn,. vial ,,f .1.. iter.
man nolo It.s woidnm will determine
whothor or not a diplomatic htoalt is
follnw. Theio Is every llidli-alli.il tn.
i.inlit that tho Piesnh-ni will ait with
n,it dolav If ho tinels that tin- worst
fo.ii aio i.'iilii'.'il. nnmely Hut tne
(inimnii reply i.s v.inu... tioncnmmlttal
and loiiiliilimal.
The nnlv hnpofui flun set far le
t lived is ii,,. intllcatnin thai liermiitiy
has ,ii;ioe, 10 oondiioi her sJiihru irh
camiMimi 111 the war zone nn u i.rinor
basis provlileii that the Cnlted Stat.s
assents to Cermunv.s prnposals ul -tniiteil
fur . ."isid.iatinn It is. pnimed
"in 'h.i: if (ii-iiiuiny puis thiso new
olib is 1 ,!,, ,.'',., t at 1. in 1. as ,1 moan nt
stiirtitn; the ptupu.-iil ,sc,1ssi,,s, t,
1 lists m.uhi bo avotie-,1 by (lennuno's:
inmpiian,,. wi-.h President WilxuY.4
l .isi, .Inn mil Mi (i. r.ii-dv messa.
llith. at.s tha: tins rrviy l o doiio. Hut
nit 10 is uiithini; dollnite
oven 011 this)
jall inipiuiaut pninl.
Secietarv l.-in-iiu.- s ,,, ,,,,,, ,
day
, 111.1. vir tieraiils il. MM'cn was so ... .n.
fusing that II was impossible or j,,,,, ,,,
s.i) wiiat i' meant
Ho tlid not know
.. 1. in. 1 in truant 11 a. ravol-.iolo or
otherwise The same I nf "I ma ' lull c.llll
ttuiu the W'h'to Huns,,
I 'ell I- I t oo hr 1 11
Ilei'lln.
IbpurtH tea, lied tlie Wh.te House nud
tie State I 'epartnient from lloillti thn'
th" Itnpei ml (Jnvernment feared a pollt
...1 uphciv il in lierllti fuilort-inir ih
pttbll. atinn nf (ierinanys concessions"
o th.- fluted St.fi- Hut 1 veil tlus did
not dispel the feelln? of pes-sinil-tu that
nn- f.illowod 5lr tlerard's cable
The I'lesiilent, ,t s explained. Is In no
mood futthei to .iss for Interpretations
of what iteitnaiD's reply mc.i nt or to
dlottss conditions sot forth b) it. There
is no minimizing the fact that the sliu.i.
(Inn has reached a d.uiKerou.s point. Thn
1 main hope left is that the ntllcial text
nil not make (ieiinuny's . ed ni; to tin
liesldeni s b.ile ilcmand ilependent on
the involved conditions which are con
tained In Hie tierman note.
Dtfnials explained in-ntKhi that much
depends mi whether Herman)', so-rallcl
IIIcriiI silbui.il Ino attacks In Ihe war znre
1110 suspomled ilurliiK the illsrits.sic'i
wlilch Iho linpptl.il I loveriiniPtit wishes
to Initiate Ml. Uerard's table makes
110 kieneinl reference to suspension e '
siibiiiiiline warfare elsewhere than in the
win mine Tho Herman note, it is u
polled, enmities itself to tesli letnuis and
tuoillllcntii'tis nf Hie pii.i 1 .1 1 1 1, 1 1 : . .ti uf ihe
Cielltlilli AdinilllllV nf I'lditllatv I. Ifll'i.
This proclamation staled that "thn
waliis sin loumlliiL' Hi-cat Milt, tin and
Inianil ate heiehv deelaied a war 70110
'hi and aftet tlio Islh of Fcbruari, l?lf,.
rvcrv cnci'iv melt hunt -luji rnunil In tha
said war zone will bo destronil without
lis belne; nlwuis possible to avert thn
il. IllSiis HilialcmilK the 1 lews ami l':ls
sciurois on that account"
It is pointed out b officials bote that
an aiti'oeineiit bv Hie 1 lei in. in nnverii.
nietit to conduct a nil sot wirfnre wlih
snlunarli'es in this piesctlhul zone
null. I If made lumiodl.ilei) ctfectlvi,
liossibli satlsfi' tlie l'i .shi. nt's tlcniati'
The r.iilinl Slabs alt v i.. ,1 ploilip,
f 1 liciinativ that ilii-iuan sill'ilin 111. 1
villi u lie nil a ciuisi'i basis in ll .,
v.-ihi.ii uii'.-tii The w.i ."in an. I th
Moil'tct 'itnean p-aeltoallv iinsilnitp l'i
i-tii 1 . 1.1 is ui' a, I mi tin 1 list.
P
,1.1 il .111. 1 In -
iliiiiin .
