PERSHING REPORTS VILLA IS LOCATED!
WEATHER Partly cloudy to-night and Saturday. J $
DITION
1 "Circulation Books Open to Alt."
"Circulation Hooka Open to All."
PRICE ONE CENT.
Coprrifht. 1010, bf Th FrM roMUhinf
Co. (Th Ktn York World).
NEW YORK, FRIDAY, MAY 5, 116.
22 PAGES
PRICE ONE CENT.
MMML
JJI KDITION
HMML
M
BERLIN YIELDS WITH CONDITIONS;
ORDERS U-BOATS TO OBEY LAW
FOUR
MDR
E
IRISH
ARE EXECUTED IN DUBLIN;
1 6 ESCAPE DEATH PENALTY
William Pearse, Plunkett, O'Hanra
han and Daly Are Shot Others
Condemned, but Sentences Are
Commuted to Penal Servitude.
LONDON, May 5. Despatches from Dublin state that four leaders of
tkt Irish rebellion wcro condemned to death and shot there yesterday
Morning. Sixteen otlicrs, condemned to death by court martial, escaped
with prison scntoncos through tho Interference of tho general commanding
the military forces. Following Is tbc text of the oRlclal communication
Iwucd by tho military authorities in Dublin yesterday and forwarded to
London to-day:
"Four pri3onr-s, Joseph Plunkett, Kdward Daly, .Michael O'Hanratun
2nd William Pearse, wcro sentenced to death und hhot this morning, after,
ttie lenience bad been confirmed by tho General Commander-in-Chief.
"Fifteen others sontenced to" death s
wire commuted to ten years penal
aervltude. They wcro Thorn? He
ran, Thomas Walsh, Flnlan L.nch,
Michael Mcrvyn. Dennis O'Cullaghan,
P. K. Sweeney. Patrick McNestry,
Paler Cl.incy, William Tosln, amnio
Irvine, John Dohcrty, J. J. Walsh,
James Mcl.lnn, .1. J. Held and John
Wlllanu.
"Another prisoner, John McGary.
wan commuted from death to eight
years.
"Two other?. Francis Fahcv and
Richard Davys, wcro sentenced to
ten years.'
Including tho four shot In Dublin
SjCiterday seven of the leaders of the
Irish revolt have born executed. Pat
rick II. Praise, tho president of tho
provisional government; Thomas .J.
Clark, tlio crncr.il commanding the
provisional army, and Thomas Mae
JVonagh, wem shot In tlio Tower of
London Wednesday morning,
The document proclaiming an Irish
republic, issued at th otltlireak of
tho rebellion, boro seven signatures
and four of tho signers have been
hot, Patrick Pe-arse, Clark, Mac
Donagh and Joseph Plunkett. The
ethers, James Connolly, reported
wounded In Dublin; B. MacDIarmad,
who is a cripple and In feeble health,
and B. Ceannt havo probably boen
sentenced to penal servitude.
Joseph Plunkett was a member of
tba Catholic, branch of the famous
Plunkett family. William Pearse, u
aculptor, was a brother of Patrick
H. Pearse and was n. tutor In tho
private school conducted by tho lnt
ter. The names of William Daly and
Michael O'Danrahan havo not tlKurud
heretofore In the news of tho ro.
belllon In Dublin.
Dublin is um't absolute martial
law and is in complete control of tho
authorities. Saloons aro allowed to
dispense liquor only between thu hours
of S o'clock and 5 o'clock In tho after
noon, und drunkonnoss has almost en
tirely disappeared In consoquonce. No
civilian 1b allowed on the .streets after
7,J0 o'clock in tho evening without a
pass.
It Is believed that all tho principals
In tho rebellion havo now boeu tried.
(Continued on Fourth Page.)
$10Men'sSuits&Topcoats,$5.95
The "HUD" Clothing Corner. Ilrond
wuy at I larcluy St. (Opp. Woolworth
Building). On Milo to-day & .Saturday,
1,000 Men's & Young Men's Suits & Top
Coat, llliifd. tiltu ks. plaldn, hiuwns, grays
A fancy mixed. Sizes 3t to 41. Our una-
r1sl price for to-day uiul haturony. js.85.
n uaiuraay nicni 1111 iu. i no nuo
kthUrtt Broadway, corner Uarclay St.
tTX.
ALL STOCKS SOAR
AFTER WALL ST.
DIGESTS NOTE.'
ul C1 .
Shares Slumped During hrsl
Hntir hut Rniiv
K.S t,i t a aJ K-y t I wu I
War Brides.
Aftor the uncertainty of th early
hours, whlln thu German nolo wan
slowly romliiK nvrr tlm wlrelofs, tbn
slock market closed Mtronj; this after
noiin. with a liely bull mmomcnt.
The hhnrts ran to cover and drove all
prlceti up, with vor heavy transac
tions Most of tho acilvo stocks woared
away abovn the prices at bust iiIkIU's
close. t'nlted Fruit rallied 121-4
points above th" lowest of the day.
This (.howod the greatest recovery, but
tho wholo list participated In the rlso,
which ranged from 2 to 6 points above
tho slump Into which the doubtful
feeling In the morning had thrown
them. Railway Springs rallied and
roso to 43 on big buying. Smelters
orse to 07 1-4, or 4 1-4 points above Its
lowest. I'nlted States Ktcol went to
83 and Mexican Petrclcum went from
07 7-8 to 101.
Tho market opened with n severe
break of from two to six points In
two acorn or mora of stocks. Cru
cible Steol and Mercantile Marine pre
ferred suffered most, each losing six
points ut the start, but later galnej
back , half their declines. United
States Steel lost two points, touching
SO 1-2 for low. llotlilohom Steel
swayed down nineteen points on a
sliiKle sain, but this wits not Indica
tive of tho jreneral market.
After an hour of wildly exciting
trnding anu me wiping out or many
Utile traders, tho market steadied
Itsolf anil regained a good part of i
tho early losses. Somn of tho Issues, I
llko Smoltcrs and a few mils, oven I
climbed abovo ycsterday'H record, i
Wall Street got over Ita war scare
about noon and then set tied down to
digest tho tici-man note, trying to
llgtiro out its ultlmato determination.
.lllrn I. one -l A r ro p Inn r. l.'rrr.lnn
J-2. In Uuiilti.
Itliltl.tN, May ! (by wlreloH lo
Sayvlllo) Twenty-six neroplnnrs
were shot down by ficrnwm a viators
on tlio western front in April, acennl
Iiik to (ifi'lriul fiKares Riven out brre
tii-dny The (!riniin Iossph lnt
month amounted to twenty-two srro-1
planes. I
VILLA HAS BEEN
GEN
PERSHING
EL PASO,, May 5. At Gen. Funston's temporary head
quarters here ft was said this afternoon a message had been
received from Gen. Pershing in which he stated that he thought
he had located Villa.
Demand Made by PresidentWilson;
New U-Boat Order That Followed
President Wilson's demand upon
Germany In his note of April 13:
"Unlaii the Imperial Govern
ment should now Immediately
declare and effect an abandon
ment of its prestnt methods of
submarine warfare anainit pas
senqor and fralnht-earryinq ves
tals, the Government of the
United States can havt no
choice but to sever diploma'
relation: with the German Em
pire altogether."
Germany's acceptance of President Wilson'3 demands In Its note of
to-day:
"Tho German Government, guided by this idea, notillcs the
Government of the United States that German naval forces
havo received the following orders: 'In accordance with the
general principles of VISIT, SKAKCH AND DESTRUCTION OF
MEIUMIANT VUSStihS recognized by international law, such
vessels UOTI1 WITHIN AND WITHOUT THU A UK A DK
CLAKKD TO HK A NAVAl. WAK ZONE SHAM. NOT HB SUNK
WITHOUT WAHN1NG. WITHOUT SAVING HUMAN LIVES.
UNI-KSS THE SHIPS ATTEMPT TO ESCAPE OH OFFKIt
KES1STANCE.'
GERMANS DESTROYED
QR irnnni luro iu inmi
00 AbnUrLArito IR ArnlL
Ollkial Report Says Enemy Got
Twenty-two Aircraft Piloted
In- German.
KKIM.IN
.. M, May
(via wireless to Saville,
V Ail lighting greut-
ly eMended on t'io western fmil! dur
ing Hi" month f pril, coinbais be
tween group ami siHc.droiis taking
the plain of tights between slnglo
flyers, the War Office stated to-day in
n review of the month's activities,
"On the west front in April twenty
six aeroplanes wcro shot down by our
flyers and of these nine were captured
by us," said thn ofliclal statement. "In
addition ten army aproplnnes wcro
shot down by anti-aircraft guns. Ger
man losses amount to twenty-two nor
oplanes, Of these, fourteoni were lost
In air combats, four failed to ruturn
and four were shot down."
Chief Points in German Note
Pledging Visit and Search
Germany acquiesces In American demand for strictest observance
of International law of visit and search by submarines of freighters as
woll as passenger carrying ships.
Abolishes the nuvnl war zone.
Urges America now rciuiro Great Britain and allies likewise to
ceaso their illegal methods of warfare.
Intimates if America Is unuble to obtain Mich pledges from Great
Britain and her allies, Germany may return to former submarine
methods.
Puts acquiescence In American demands on ground of "responsi
bility. . . boforo the forum of the history of mankind" as well as
on friendship for America.
Bitterly assails Groat Britain for repeated violation of laws safe
guarding freedom nf tho seas.
Declares German people havo been under the Impression that while
America threatens Germany with a break in relations unless an effec
tive nrm of warfare Is abandoned, America is "merely protesting" to
allies ngulnst their illegal acts.
Ironically holds American sjmpathy and humanitarian pleas "not
extended with samo warmth of feeling" to German people whom Great
Britain is avowedly attempting to btarvc out.
LOCATED,
REPORTS
Germany's submarine, order re
ported In its note of Jan. 7, which
I'icsldeiit Wilson demanded should
bo abandoned:
"Submarine commandara have
orders to conduct cruiser war
fare aaaintt enemy merchant
vassals only In accordance with
neneral principles of inter
national law. EXCLUDING IN
PARTICULAR MEASURES OF
REPRISAL AS APPLIEO IN
THE WAR ZONE AROUND
THE BRITISH I8LES."
37,047 BRITISH COLONIAL
TROOPS ARE PRISONERS
Germans Mold 26,800, Turks 9,796,
Bulgarians -149, and Aus
trian 2.
I.ONIHIN.
May .V
licit Mi
Figures
colonial
on lh"
1 11 !
'number.- !'
who an- pri- ni-rs in n, hands of the
.ii-io.is lielhi-.eiciilM became available
to-d.i) iMiidliig to thoMi llgures.
they total -I7.I7, tho (leruians Imlding
2fi,wi such prisoners, th Turks !i,7li6,
tho Bulgarians 410 and Hip Austrlnns
only twii.
These troops aro from Canada, Aus
tralla. New i nland ami other British
colonics.
nrlllsh In IIHraar flrrmnn
ustrliinn.
find
The Ilrmsh Oovornment has decided to
rlca.io tlio lldrty-elght Oermnns und
AMtrlsns wlm were taken from the
American sic.iiiihihp (. iiiiih,
NOTE PLACED BEFORE CABINET;
NO BREAK IS NOW EXPECTED
United States Assured in Note That General Principles of Visit and
Search Will Be Observed Both Within and Without the Naval War
Zone, and That Merchant Vessels Will Not Be Sunk Without Warn
ing or Without Saving Human Lives.,
American Government Urged to Insist That British Shall Observe Rules
of International Law; If This Object Is Not Attained Germany Re
serves the Right to Meet New Situation With Full Liberty of Action;
United States Accused of Partiality on the Side of the British.
WASHINGTON, May 5. Wllh'lu len mtntitts after the llnal anil the
IUI paragraphs of the (icnaaa reply to America's submarine warfare de
mands hail reached WMslilngtoi President Wilson and hit Cabinet met to
consider the communication.
When thn Cabinet meeting broke up Secretary Lansing met all Inquiries
nlth this reply s
Ml eminot illncu It nt nil at this time."
Mhllc llnal decision tin the attitude of the American (internment waits
mi tho ofilrlnl text, some Cabinet members imllenteil that the (lei man aisnr
nnces probably would be accepted and that diplomatic relations would not
be broken unless the order to submarine commanders hiih vlolutcd and
American Hies endangered.
The Cabinet win In session Iwo hours uiul a half the longest meeting
held for several months.
At the State Department, nfter the Cabinet meeting, it was slated that
no hunt)- m-lloit would be taken and that In tlew of Its length and the neces
sity nf digesting It carefully It wns Improbable that any decision would bo
reached before next week.
Tho prhate. Tlew of ofiirlals apparently wax that the new orders to
submarine commanders apparently met the demands of the United States,
unless an Interpretation were placed on them to lead to attack on merchant
vessel" firmed for defensive purposes.
The general tenor of the German nolo wns considered unsatisfactory.
'I here nns -omc disposition ninoiig the President's nihUers to believe no
drastic steps will be tiikcn unless the new orders In submarine eommnnd
ers are violated or inodllled.
s the ( nblncl Members left the Mhlto House sen-nil Indicated the
view that the t'nlted States would have to wiiit and see whether the new
orders to siibmnrltie commanders were carried out.
The fact that Germany requires Great Britain to cease operations
which she terms contrary to international law wns expected, and at tlrst
blush, ofiirlals were Inclined to accept Gernianj's request that this Gov
ernment nndertake to bring nhont such a change as .Instlilahle. It was
pointed nnt that Germany has Issued the order thnt meets the President's
contentions.
If Germany Inter, liecntise the t'nlted States falls to bring Great
Britain to meet tho Germnn contentions, rescinds the orders announced
to. day, that will be a new Issne for the Fulled States to face. It has no
pnrt In the present sllnntlon. it was said.
On the other hand sumo ofiirlals believe Germany nguln has "passed
the buck" to the I'nlted Stnte, nud bj (be very nature of her reply "put this
country on probation," making the iiceesfnl settlement of the present
dlflicult.v cnllrel) dependent upon America's attitude to word Grcnt Britain.
So fur ns the language nf the note Is concerned olllclals are Inclined to
puss oier certain rnustlr and Irrelevant passages as being "for home con
sumption." Germnnj's rejection of Ibis country's evidence in the Sussex
ease, however, Is a thorn In the side of optimism. This Government had
considered the ease against Germnn) on this point complete.
DISMISSED FROM OFFICE
FOR SLURS ON WILSON
( iovernnient Employee at Washing
ton Said to Have Galled l'rei-
dent a Traitor. '
WASHINGTON. May .'. Grnstj
llciinvkeii, Assistant Registrar In llit'j
'np right Division of tlm Library of
I'ongtess, was dismissed to.ilai fori
making statements derogatory t
1'iesldeiit Wilson and ilu I'nlted!
States In general
HriiinKen. foinieilv iMv Attome
of Milwaukee, hud been under investi
gation for ten day, alnce-employees
omplainntl of his statements, some of
w bleh wero alleged to bo:
"President Wilson la a traitor. Be
side him Benedict Arnold would lie a
patron saint."
"America Is but th" tall end of Brit
ish civilisation."
"Guild! Let thn good work go on'"
This on tlio dav the l.usitama was
sunk
"'I'lie mutithpifi h of riiii.n Britain Is
going to speak to-duy " This pre
vious to going to thr I'apitul to linar
Wili-oii read his siiluiiariiin message
to l 'otigress
llli: WUIU.l) TU.tVM, IIUIIKAU.
Af'l'l- IMUKx lUurUI lluililnl.
M 6.1 I'm llux, .Y Y, Citj.
Titkru. rr.rfntl'jiii xilmj.. ,1. . ,u U H.r.
ml, Vi4tU t'entrl ft ti.J outh Amrian
t4iofllilp lint. IUjf4 ibil Mtoil rbiK rooa
Tn Alt lod nlft-t, 'Irltclltn' ibn'kj n4 mu.f
mim (oi !. Ttltptmat linimin looo. Adrv,
, . , - vvjli
nEIililK, May J. Gcrmaay has yielded. Practically every demand mi
by President Wilson In his note for complete change la German methods
of submarine warfare li conceded In the German reply made public Mere
to-day.
Germany's backdown la made conditional on the success of effort
nrges the United States to make to force Great Britain to observe fully
the principles of International law.
Should tho steps taken by tho Government of the United States not
attain the object It desires to hare the laws of humanity followed by all
belligerent nations the German Government would then bo faring a new
situation Iu which It must reserve to Itself complete liberty of decision.
Germany concedes fully President Wilson's contention that In the
futnre no merchant vessel, whether freighter or passenger liner, shall he '
sunk without warning, cither within or without the war zone around the
Urltlsh Isles.
The German (iovernnient refuses to admit responsibility for the dam
aging of the Channel liner Sussex, hut declares that should further Inves
tigation show that the Sussex was a submarine victim Germany will make
full amends.
Germany's backdown Is preceded by a sharp arraignment of thu Gov
eminent of Urn Culled Stales, plainly written to appease public anger
among the German people on account of the Government's decision to
yield to Ilic Culled Slates. This, arraignment is bused largely ou the charge
that (he United States has fulled to bring Great Britain to book for viola
(Ions of International law as outrageous as those charged against Germany's
naval forces.
German submarine commanders already have received new orders,
meeting In full tho demands made by President Wilson. The German (iov
ernnient expresses Implicit conttdeuce that these orders will bo executed
In good faith.
TEXT OF THE GERMAN
REPLY TO THE U. S.
Pledges Protection to All Merchant Ships,
Abolishes the Naval War Zone, but In
sists That U. S. Shall Force the Allies
to Also Observe International Law.
W:KUN, May 5 (by wireless, via Sayville, L I.). Following is the
text ot the note of the German Government in reply to the American
note in respect to submarine warfare, delivered on Thursday by Gottlieb
von Jagow, the Foreign Secretary, to Ambassador Gerard:
"The undersigned, mi behalf of the Imperial German Government,
has the honor lo preent to His
United States, Mr. James W. Gerard, the following reply to the note of '
April 20, regarding the conduct of German submarine warfare.
"The German Government handed over to the proper naval authori
ties for eaily investigation the evidence concerning the Sussex, as com
municated In the Government of the United States. Judging by the
results, that the investigation has hitherto yielded, the German Govern
ment is alive to the possibility that the ship mentioned in the note of April
Excellency, the Ambassador of tire-.,,.
i
-SBaW-V'-
