EXTRA! f l)c ?jcning J&fcf. EXTRA!
11:50 A.M. ~ J W C7^ 11:50 A.M.
WASHINGTON, I). (A, FRIDAY, MAY 5. 1910. ONE CENT~
Germai
New Si
Will Modify Submarine
Cf
U. S.?-Hopes and Ex|
From England Ag:
Blockade So That 1
Starved Into Ignon
The reply of Germany to the last note
r 11 .1 Pi a
marine warfare was received by trie state
following order has been issued to submar
"In accordance with the general p
destruction of merchant vessels rec
vessels, both within and without th
shall not be sunk without warning, a
less the ship attempts to escape or o
The note was delivered to Ambassado
during a call of the latter upon Foreign M
lication last night in Berlin.
The note sets forth that doubt exists in
ities that the Sussex was torpedoed by a
- time io-dear-up-that question.- ~ -? WANTS
BRITAIN'S B
In regard to the general submarine is
to neutral shipping, Germany recites that
fare to meet the ideas of the United States
Britain an agreement o conduct the bloc
"thousands of innocent women and child
submission."
The note declares that the German peo
criminated against Germany in that it has
a suspension or material modification of s
ing to Great Britain against the blocka
.-starve Germany into submission. Nevert
most limit of concessions, out of friendshi
^nd prolongation of the war.
vihmartn** warfare delivered #?n Thure- 1 Stat--* Judging: ?.y !?< r* ult that
lay l?; 4?ottli*-l> von . t he foieij^n ij,?? j fi vent lira t ion h;'.? hitherto yidilfd
nrrciary, to Amtwssa?l?r Gerard the (>rman government is alive to th*
"Th* un'1^r.4i^nf(! on behalf of th*1 possibility that thr ship mentioned in
Imperial German government has the ne note of April 1" ;?:? having hten
honor to present to His F,\" '' ?> , to? pe?!oe<f by a Germ-in submarine b
th*- ami>?.?Miio' o? the I'nit-d Stalin actually identical with the Sussex.
.Mi J y rue \\ . Gerard ?h following The Gentian government begs t?
r*-p|?. t?? tii*- note *?f Aoril J", regard- ? serve further ?o?u? tin n-a t ion on thr
ITl ? :h? oi?.lu?t of German *u oma < in < -.'ti-r iim' I eeitu'r point:' are ajtrer1
v h r ? t? Vt.ii ?h are of derisive itnporThe
German ?oyci nmtui n aimed umce for esia.bi.snin:.; the facts of th*
- ' !. - .... . . . :?r
FIRST PORTIONS OF NOTE DISAPPOINTING.
The first portions of the German note were read by officials hers
with undisguised disappointment. The tone of these first portions
k.as ?f such a character that some officials feared a break in diplomatic
relations.
The unofficial copy was sent to President Wilson as rapidly as
it was received by wireless. He had no engagements today outside
of the cabinet meeting, which was exnected to be devoted almost
exclusively to the German situation.
No action will be taken until the official text of the note has arrived
here and has been studied by the President and Secretary
Lansing. inc President has already discussed with his cabinet
'.he steps to be taken in case the note was found to be unsatisfactory.
'
Th official text is expected to be here before Sunday, the anniversary
of the sinking of the I-ttsitania. It was generally expected
that whatever action is taken by the American government probably
will come on that day.
The ('resident has already informed Congress of his intention
to break relations with < iermany in case her reply is unsatisfactory
and. therefore, it is believed he has decided not to go before I ongrcs;
again before taking the action.
TEXT OF THE GERMAN ANSWER
TO U. S. NOTE ON SUBMARINES
HPIi'LIN. Mat .* i?; w > .* - v S y - ov i t?? ?h?? p1 opiy naval authorities
IT*-. N Y Koll'iw iiiu t:?- I "X! ?>t f,,r .-ally in vest iiialion the
h' ?s*.t** f tin- ?irrni.tn gnVfi nii e i: in eorp ei nin^ th'* S',i.hsh\. afl comnmnii
n i \ t>? \ii' Anim-aii nol i ? ? !? *< t : n - . . -u t <f I ' b.. * ?* . r> m*-?? of ? l '.. ?
i Reply
11 bmarir
Warfare to Meet Ideas of
sects U. S. Will Obtain
reement to Modify j
"eutons "Will Not Be
linious Submission."
of the United States on the subject of sub:
Department today. It announces that the
'ine commanders:
principles of visit and search and the
:ognized by international law such
10 at>n9 rlarlovor] o nairol urav vnno
:v Ul V/U M VV1U1 VU U I1U V C4I TV U1 ?<VllVy
nd without saving human lives uniffer
resistance."
>r Gerard in Berlin yesterday afternoon
iinister von Jagow, and was issued for pubii
i e >i r* 1 .i 1
i ine minas or me uerman navai aurnor.
German submarine, and asks for more
LOCKADE MODIFIED. "
sue and the relation of submarine warfare
she has been willing to conduct this warif
the United States obtained from Great
I
kade of Germany in such a manner that
ren will not be starved into ignominious
1
pie regard the United States as having disdemanded,
on pain of a break of relations, .
ubmarine warfare, while merely protest- !
de methods of that country, designed to '
heless, Germany says, it will go to the ut- !
p lasting 100 years, to avert an extension
i
j,
| Should it turn nut th;it thf com- j warfare again t piu-iiiv trad*' carried '
i '<i;tn?l?" was wrong :ii a ss uniiiis the ; on pfiomy freight ships encountered in '
I I
i wssel to 1 ? > :i ma n-of-war, the *1 rr- the war zone surrounding flreat Brit- 1
' | rnr n government will riot fail to draw lain. With regard to these no assur- *
i i consequence resulting therefrom. j anees have ever been given to the gov"In
eonrieetion with the ease of the ernment ??f the I nited States. \o sueh *
' Sussex the government of the Inited , assurances are contained in the dec- *
States made a series of statements, the J laration o/ February 8. 1916. ' '
;; iet of which in the assertion that the "Errors Are Unavoidable."
Incident is to he considered but one in- The German government cannot ad,
stance of a deliberate method or indis- | nljt any ,i?ul>t that ttiese orders were '
, criminate destruction of vessels of all j Kjvcn or are executed in Rood faith. *
j-oris, nationalities and destinations by j Errors actually occurred. They can in '
j German submarine commanders. I MO kjml C)f warfare be avoided alto_
.. . j aether. Allowances must be made in C
. i Repudiates U. S. Accusation. v
| | the conduct of naval warfare against
. 1 "The Herman government must em- ;in enemy resorting to all kinds of
j phatically repudiate the assertion. The rujjg8 whether permissible or illicit.
I | derman government, however, thinks it "But apart from the possibility of '
, J of little avail to enter into details in errors, naval warfare, just like warfare
; the present stage of affairs, more par- on land, implies unavoidable dangers \
ticularly as the government of the for neutral persons and goods entering '
I'rnterJ States omitted to substantiate jj1#. fighting zone. Rven in cases where
the assertion by reference to concrete naval action is confined to ordinary '
? j facts. forms of cruiser warfare, neutral per1
j "The Herman government will only | sons and goods repeatedly come to
.'state that ii has impos-d far-reaching f ?-|-jef.
, i rcstra:MH upon the use of the sub-j "The tlerman government has repeat'
martfi" weapon solely hi eonsideration ! ?dl.v and explicitly pointed out the dan[
! of neutrals' interests, in spite of the; gets from mines that have led to the
fact that these restrictions are neces- j loss of numerous ships.
; I
, s;?ril> of advantage t<> Hermanj's "The Herman government has made
j enemies. No such consideration has several proposals to the government of
i lever been shown neutrals by (Jrent the t'nited States in order to reduce to
i | Britain and her allies. a minimum for A merman travelers and
; "The Herman submarine forees have goods the inherent dangers of naval j
\ had. in fact, orders to conduct the sub- warfare. I'nfortunately. the govern-j
? marine warfare in accordance with the mont of the t'nited Stales decided not .
i I
general principles ?.f visit and search j to accept the proposals. Had it accept- j ;
I and th** destruction of merchant ves-jed the government of 1he I'nited States t
. , yc\ recognized hy international law, i would have l?e#?n Instrumental In prethe
sole exception being the conduct of venting the greater part of the acci- n
Is 1
ieQ
_:>jr
P ? rv
||j| : ! >;
nHnMM
JAMES V
1'nhod State# nmh
Jents that American citizens have met
with in the meantime.
i
Willing t? Stand -by Offers. ?|
"The German government still stands
jy its offer to come to an agreement
alon# these lines.
"As the German government repeatedly
declared, it cannot dispense with
he use of ilie submarine weaDon in the
onduct of warfare against enemy
rade. The German government, how-ver.
has now decideil to make a fur- J
her eoneession. adapting- methods of j
lubmarine war to-the Interests of neu- i
rals.
i
"In reaching this decision the German
government is actuated by considers tions
which are above the level of the
lisputed question.
"The German erovernim nt attaches no
ess importance to the sacred principles
of humanity than the government i
>f the I'nited States. It agayjn fully
1 akes into account that both Wovernnents
for many years co-operated in
leveloping international law in conformity
with these principles, the ultimate
object of which has always been
n confine warfare on sea and land to
irmed forces of belligerents and safeguard
as far as possible non-combattuts
jigainst the horrors of war. Hut
ilthough tltese considerations are of!
great weight, they alone would not un- !
let present circumstances have deter-j
mined the attitude of the German gov- i
trnment.
"For iri answer to the appeal 1?y the I
government of t lir- 1'nited States on be1211f
of the sacred principles of humanly
and international law. the German
government must repeat once more,
vith all emphasis, that it was not the
German, but the British, government
vhich ignored all accepted rules of I
I
nternational law. and extended this
errible war to the lives and property
>f non-cambatants, having no regard I
whatever for the interests and rights j
if neutrals and non-combatants that j
hrough this method of warfare liave I
>een severely njured.
"In self-defense sigainst the illeg2il
onduct of British warfare, while flghtng
a hitter struggle for national exist nce.
Germany had to resort to the
lard but effective weapon of submarine
varfa re.
Puts Blame on England.
"As matters stand the German gov-j
jrnment cannot kut reiterate regret J
hat the sentiments of humanity whiyh j
he government of the I'nited Statesj
extends with such fervor t<> the uri- j
lappy victims of submarine warfare
ire not extended with the same warmth |
>1 ieeiing 10 iiiaiiN inuiiuiin <n women |
in-.l children, wlu?a according to the {
ivowed intention of the British gov-j
rnment, shall he starved, and who by I
tuffcrings shall force the victorious j
unties of the central powers into igno- :
ninious capitulation. j
"The German government, in agree-!
[lent with the German people, fails to <
*
^ pK?3P??^*?~*x'w? ; g?
.'. (iERARU.
nssndor to (irrmnny.
understand this discrimination, all the 1
more as it has repeatedly and explicit- 1
ly declared. Jlsejf ready to use the (
submarine weapon in strict conformity i
with the rules of international law as i
recognized before the outbreak of the \
war if Great Britain likewise was '
ready to adapt the conduct of warfare i
to these rules. >
"Several attempts made bv the gov- j
ei nment of the ITnited States to prevail j
upon the British government to act ac- ,
cordinalv failed because of flat refusal ,
on.the part of the British government.!*
Moreover, Great Britain again ami j \
again has violated international law, jy
surpassing all hounds in outraging
neutral lights.
"The latest measure, adopted by Great j *
Britain. declaring German bunker j f
< oal contraband and establishing c on- j r
ditions tinder which Rnglish bunker j t
coal alone is supplied to neutrals is j ,
nothing but an unheard-of attempt hv ,
way of exaction, by force of neutral
tonnage, for the service of British (
trade war. ^
Says U. S. Must Curb England. Too. j a
"The German people know that the | t
government of the I'nited States has j
the power to confine the war to arnrnd
forces of the belligerent countries in
the interest of humanity, and in the
t
maintenance of international law. The
t
have been certain of attaining: this end
i "
had it been determined to insist, |
against Great Britain, on the in eon- *
d
trovertible rights to freedom of the
r
seas.
I
"But as matters stand the German
c
people are under the impression that the
s
government of the I'nited States, while j
demanding that Germany, struggling {
{ t
for existence, shall restrain the use of i
an effective weapon, and while making
compliance with these demands a con- 11
dition for maintenance of relations s
with Germany, confines itself to pro- r<
tests against illegal methods adopted by
Germany's enemies. Moreover, the t(
German people know to what eonsid- v
erable extent its enemies are supplied ^
with all kinds of war material from w
the I'nited States.
h will therefore be understood that ti
the appeal made by the government of
the I'nited States to sentiments of hu- d<
inanity and principles of international oi
law cannot under the circumstances cl
meet the same hearty response from tl
the German people which such an ap- fr
i
peal oinerwise always is certain iojvi
find here. If the (Jerman government I
nevertheless is resolved to go to thej
utmost limit of concessions it has been J
guided not alone by the friendship con- j is
neciing the two great nations for over j t|l
1 n?? years, but also by the thought of j ij
tlie great doom which threatens the | inentire
civilized world should the cruel j r(
and sanguinary war he extended and J w
prolonged." j fr
Germany's Intentions Good. in
"The Herman government, consej/v.jp nl
uf Germany's strength, twice within tl
lea
rder
i .I. "1
^ ^VwTlP1 ? bIIP
jive
sGi
DR. VOX BRTHM
( rrman imperii
Lhe last few months announced before
:he world its readiness to make peace
>n a basis safeguarding Germany'^
t'itaf interests, thus indicating that it
s not Germany's fault if peace is still
withheld from the nations of Kurope.
Phe German government feels all the
n<?re justified in declaring that re- 1
tponsibility could not be borne before
he forum of mankind and in historv t
I
f after twenty-one months of the war's I
Juration the submarine question under,
liscussion between the German gov ninient
and the government of the
"nited States were t <? take a turn 1
teriously threatening maintenance of I 1
peace between the two nations.
.*\s i h r hs lies wun nif ??erman gov- ; \
rument, it wishes to prevent things ! i
'rom taking such a course. The ?:r- ! ?
nan government, moreover, is prepared
o do its utmost to confine operations! \
?f the war for the rest of its duration .
o the fighting forces of tire belligerents.
thereby also insuring freedom
f the seas?a principle upon which ' j
he Herman government believes, now
!
is before, that it is in agreement with 1
he government of the United States.
I
Renews Order' for Warning.
"The 'lorman government, guided by *
his idea, notifies the government of '
he United States that 'lerman naval-*
'?rees have received the following 1
?rder: In accordance with the general j '
rinciples of visit and search atul th? j I
lestruction of merchant vessels recog-!
lized by international law such vessels.! *
oth within and without the area de- ; t
lared a naval war zone, shall not. he i iJ
unk without warning:, and without *.
aving human lives unless the ship atempt
to escape or offer resistance.' c
"But neutrals cannot expect that Gerlany,
forced to fight for existence,
hall for the sake of neutral interests j
sstrict the use of an effective weapon j
' the enemy is permitted to continue J
> apply at will methods of warfare!
iolating rules of international law. ?
uch a demand would he incompatible j
ith the character of neutrality, and
le German government is convinced IC
i o
tat the government of the Cnited *
Lates does not think of making such a ^
?mand, knowing that the government lf
r the I'nited States repeatedly deares
that it is determined to restore s'
le principle of freedom of the seas, ^
orn whatever quarter it has been j Q]
olated." j (j(
Confident of U. S. Co-Operation. j ''
ilf
"Accordingly the (ierniiin government
; confident that i 11 eon-sequence of the j 1
ut
nw orders issued to the naval forcesJu
ie government of tlie I'nited Stalest
ill also now consider all impediments .
'moved which may have been in the}
ay of mutual co-operation toward res- , ^
>ration of freedom of the seas dur- !
ca
tg the war. as suggested in the note J ^i,
.lulv 23, It11.", and it does not doubt
' a.'
lat the government of the United 111
v
*
d;
ven
! " ? ?
f si. -J^^M
A\\-HOl.MVP.Ci(
ul dinner I lor.
States will now demand and insist that
the British government shall forthwith
o^)serve the rules of international law
uiu\ ersa ii \ recognized neiore tne war
as arf lai?l down in the notes presented
by the government of the I'nited
Slates to the British government !"? ceniber
2S. 1914, and November 5. 1911.
"Should steps taken by the governneiit
of the I'nited States "not attain
he object it desires to have the laws
f humanity followed by all belligerent
iHtions. the tiernian government would
hen he faring a new situation, in
a hu h it must reserve to itself complete
iberty of decision.
' The undersigned avails himself of
his opportunity to renew to the Amorcan
ambassador assurances of highest
-onsiderat ion."
STOCK MARKET BREAKS
ON GERMAN NOTE TONE
Active Issues. Particularly the War
Group. Fall From Three to
Six Points.
NKW V?>r:K. May ? Wall etreet'a
rrave view of the Herman note was refected
in the demoralized tone ??f thin
dock market at the opening today. Reive
issues, particularly those comprisng
the war group, breaking 3 to 6
joints, with 1for Bethlehem Steel.
The tenor of the (ierman repl v w am
rcncrali> known before the market
jpened. the news tickers and other
tgencies having published many of it*
'ssential features.
There was a very large attendance
if members on the floor of the exhange
and the offices f brokers were
rowded with apprehensive customers.
Commission houses received countless
uerics by telephone and telegraph
rom out-of-town points.
Brokers had numerous selling orders,
nd the course of the market at the
neninc denoted little support.
Some Specific Declines.
The mure specific declines included
rucible Steel, 0 points; Lackawanna
tee), 4; Studebaker. 41-: Anaconda,
io; industrial Alcohol, 3 ; I'nited
tates Smelting, OV-. and numerous 1
) 2 point declines elsewhere.
I'nited States Steel opened with 4.000
tares at 80'^ to 81. against yrstcray's
close ??f S28**, and Marine pre.
-rred's initial sale comprised a block
f 3,8(MI shares at 82 to SO, a maximum
feline of '? points.
Hails were relatively steady, declines
i thai di\ision ranging from fractions
J ?
Support inu ordors ln i'imhi rallies of
to 4 points in the first fifteen injures.
hut the market's undertone cou*
nued feverishly active.
Hilles to Prepare for Convention.
NKW Vt?UK. May o.?4?harles If.
illes, chairman of the republican naoital
committee, intends to no to <*lniko
May 24. to make ready for the nadiihI
convention there Juno 7. He \v.l|
accompanied by James J I'hifhps,
tsistant secretary of (lie national cvm11
tec.
9
s
