Bringing Up Father
Ncoer Loses J Is Keen Wit and
Delightful Humor
fadjmtmd
Frank Carpenter
Look for ^is A laska Letter in
the Sunday Times-Dispat eh
66th YEAR
VOLUME CO
X I'51B Kit 125
RICHMOND, VA., FRIDAY, MAY 5, 1916. ?FOURTEEN PAGES.
ST" ?UNSETTLED
PRICE, TWO CENTS. >
.GERMAN REPLY, NOW IN HANDS OF GERARD,
EXPECTED TO RESULT IN BREAK WITH U. S.
PROVIDES BASIS
. OF CO OPERATION
FOR TWO NATIONS
Tentative Agreement Be
tween Scott and Obregon
Proves Acceptable.
STRENGTHENS CORDIAL
RELATIONS EXISTING
Ratification of Plan Will Dispose
of Disturbing Situation in
Northern Mexico.
4%
I eypkcted WITHIN FKW HOCRS
Dotal]* Not Made Public L'ntil For
mal Acceptance by
CarranzH.
WASHINGTON. May 1 ?President j
Wilson announced to-night that the I
tentative agreement between Generals j
Scott and OhfRnn regarding the fu
ture operations of the Amertcan rind
Mexican military forces In Mexico,
"provides a basis ?-?f co-operation which
promt.*** to prevent misunderstandings
and strengthens the cordial relations j
of thr two republics".
Although thorA was no formal nn- j
nouncement of the action, notification '
that the Scott-Obrcgnn agreement is nc? !
i ceptable to the American government I
> was telegraphed to General .Scott at El
Paso to-night by Secretary Hal- er. Gen- !
tral Scott ts authorized to cvcltattfi"
formal acceptances with General Obre
Pnn ar snop as the latter ban obtained
approval of General Carranza, and of
ficials h're ;ir? confident that will bv:
to-morrow or Saturday.
President Wilson Issued this state
men! .
"I ha\e examined, with the Secretary
of W.-.r. the report made by General
Hueh I<. Scott, of the conference he
twecn htm and General Obregon. Sit.
f-tatv of War of the republic of M?:;l
Vo.
'The .eport include* n tentative
agreement covering the future opera
tion# of both the American and Mexi
can military forces ami evidences cor
dial co-operation between the two sov
ernmontB In their common purpose.
"As this agreement in being submit
ted to the d* facto government of Mex
ico, it would not be proper for me
to permit its publication until that,
government has had an opportunity to
examine and consider its provisions.
The full t?'xt of the proposed agree
ment will be (riven out immediately
i.l'fn tis acceptance bv both govern
ments Iti general I may say that i*
provides a basis of co-operation which
promises to prevom misunderstanding
r.n(! strengthens the cordial relation*
of the two republics."
Ml ttl'TII'IAI, Ol'TM.VK
OK PI.A.N A \ A 11. A Itl.lC
It is expected President Wilson ?will
a formal statement regaiding tho
agreement as soon ar. word comes that
General Carranza has approved it. No
official outline of the plan was avail
able to-r.lght. but It Is known that It
" provides for an actl\e campaign by
Carranza troops against bandits in tho
l'glor. south of the present lines of
the American expedition, and for the
gradual withdrawal of the American
forces to the border as the ability of
the Mexican troops to police the coun
try adequately i? demonstrated. I'se
of the Mexican railways In keeping the
American expedition supplied also is
' provided, and, in return, the expedi
tionary forcer, are pledged to exercise
every possible precaution to avoid
clash's with the town people in the
regions In which they continue to act.
The limitations of the expedition un
der the agreement have not been dis
closed. It is understood, however, that
it will hold tho present lines for the
time being." and not proceed to the
smith In any event. The best Informa
tion at the War Department as to tho
present location of the American forces
shows that General Pershing is at Nn
mlquipa, but tnat patrols are at work
to the south of that place.
NO WOItD RICCKIVKI)
riltIM MKXICAX CAPITA I.
Neither the State Department nor
the Mexican embassy received) <\T>y
dispatches from Mexico City during the
day hearing on General Carransa's at
titude toward the Scott-Ohregon agree
ment. It is possible the drst word of
\ Carranza's action will come through
General Obtegon.
Xo action toward hastening exporta
tion of arms and ammunition now at
the border awaiting permits to crons
into Mexico was taken to-day at the
St.He or Treasury Departments. This
subject Is expected to ho brought tip
for consideration by General Cnrrunza's
diplomatic representative, Kllseo Ar
redondo, as soon as the El Paso agree
ment has been ratified.
pending tho demonstration by thj
Carranza forces of their intention ami
power to clear the whole border region
of brigands, it is understood that no
move toward withdrawing any of the
troops now on the border will be made,
and the double guard will be. maintain
ed along the border until definite in
formation is avnllahle to show that tho
bandit menace is at an end.
FIVAI. CONPKRKMCK
W'llil. I1K HIOI.O TO-OAV
EL PASO. May 4.?The third and fi
nal conference of Generals Scott, nnd
Obregon. ?t which the complete detisils
of the agreement for military m-opera
(Continued on Second Page.) ?
I
Thousands Flock to West
hampton to Witness Ter
centenary Celebration.
ELIZABETH REIGNS AGAIN
AT RICHMOND COLLEGE
Impersonated by Mrs. John Skcl
ton Williams, Queen Presides
Over Brilliant Fetes.
BARD APPEARS AGAIN IX LIFE
Poet of Stratford. In Person of Pres
ident. BoatAvriKht. Takes Part
in Procession.
No Pageant To-D ay
roattnurd Iimvt rainfall rananl
the pnsranl out liorltle* lnte liinl
nlKht lo announce thn( the pfrfdrm
nnrf arlirdulril for thl? Mftrriioun
linn hwn pimlpoiifil until to-morrow.
Wet RronndN nm! the condition of
the road* IrntlltiK to thr cnllejte
irould linrp Interfered ?erlou*ly had
the pngonnt heen rrprntrd to-dny.
Saturday'* PfrfiirmHnrp will follow
HBPtly tljr mimp prnjcrnai (in jk
terdiiy'*.
Round about a miniature Thames
banked with theaters and taverns that
Elizabethan literature has made famous
5.000 residents of Richmond and visitors
front near-by town? joined an specta
tors and player? In commemorating at
Richmond College yesterday the three
hundredth anniversary of the death r.f
i William Shakespeare.
Seven miles to the west of the city,
I at beautiful Westhampton. 1.000 hands
j reared another Boar's Head Inn. an
i other St. Bartholomew's Fair, another
' Hampton Court and another Globe
I Theater to provide a faithful setting:
j for th? dignitaries of the spacious days
, of great Elizabeth. These walked again
jamone the living. proclaiming by their
presence the eternal message of the
? playwright whose stage rejnairs to thin
day the most densely peopled with liv
ing- characters.
j SACK WAS NOT THE KIND
Slit JOHN FA I.STAFF KNEW
There were obvious crudities Much
! xcas left to the imagination. I^ondon
i Bridge was Impersonated by a dapper
; little concrete span across an arm of
Westhampton Lake. A famous prelate
| of Shakespeare's day puffed contentedly
ar a cigarette. Country lassies at
Bartholomew Fair were brave in Eliza
bethan furbelows, but omitted to rils
[ card painfully modern patent-leather
pumps. And, worst of all. the sack
served in the taverns was a base imita
tion of the joy fluid Falstaff knew.
But the shortcomings were few and
i the virtues many From 2.30 o'clock
! until almost nightfall there was un
j rolled on a dozen greor.s and stages
among the hills and dales of the pic
turesque Richmond College campus a
; vividly colored record of the deeds and
; days of Shakespeare's lifetime.' Five
j thousand men. women and children re
; newed their love for the greatest poet
; of the English-speaking race and mtn
! gled familiarly with the famous char
| acters that enjoy immortality In his
dramatic works.
I
1)11. .1. C. METCA1.P PI. A YS
HAMLET WITH (iOOD EFFECT
j Standing on the terraced slopes of tho
i campus, where they stretch away from
i the water's edge, Hamlet, best-known
| and most remembered of all Shakes-'
| peare's characters, addressed his fol
; lowers and his players ribboned in
; front of the Merniald'# Tavern and the
. crowds at ease on the grass around and
j behind him In the words of his strident
; specch to the players who were about
to appear before the King and Queen.
"Speak the speech," quoted Dr. J. C.
i Metcalf, playing the. role of Hamlet, "as
|1 pronounced it to you, trippingly on
j the tongue; but if you mouth It. as
I many of our players do, I had as lief
. the town crier spoke my lines. Nor
! do not saw the air too much with your
i hand. thus; but use all gently, for -Inj
'the very torrent, tempest and. as i
; may say, whirlwind of your passion
you must acquire and beget a temper-i
I ance that may give It smoothness. Oh.'j
lit offends me to the soul to hear aj
robustious periwlg-pnted fellow tear a
passion to tatters, to very rags; to split'
the ears of tho groundlings, who, for J
the most part, are capable of nothing
but Inexplicable dumb show and
noise. I would have such a fellow!
whipped for o'erdoing Termagant; It
outlierods Herod. Pray you avoid lt."[
i The players heeded, and "the very
j age and body of the time" in which!
Shakespea.ro lived was mirrored In ap
proximately pcrfect fashion to tho re
viewers.
UliEEN ELIZABETH APPEAHS
"OIINE LV ROYAL LITTER
The pageant began promptly on tho
scheduled hour. Its immensity and tho
care and thought with which it had
been arranged under the supervision
of Miss Orio 1j. Hatcher, so as to con
form with the minutest detail of
Elizabethan times, were not revealed
until the Queen, borne in her stately
(Con11 nu ed~on TeriYh Page)- i
PARTT LEADERS PliGED !
Ill AWKWARD SITUATION:
Entrance of Rorer A. James Into!
Hnce for National Committeeman i
Embarrasses Virginians.
PROMISED SIPPOKT TO GLASS j
Congressman From Lynchburg He- (
rides He Will Not Step Aside for,
Danville Man, and Name W*ill lie j
Presented to Roanoke Convention, i
James Asks Support
of All Democrats j
In rrnponiiK to a qiifry from The
Times-1) Ixpat ??!? concerning his at
titude tnnard the uutlonnl commit
Ircmnn content, the following tele
ern m nn* rfrtlved from Rorcr A.
Jatnen last 111 tell * i
Danville, Vn.i Muy 4. I
Tq Che Eilltur of Tlio Tlnifn-Uliipmcli!
i > oar cillery wrlvul. Iliirlnn the j
lust kPkNion or the I.cgiwlal ure many
1 of my Indulgent friends, prompted !
perhaps by n denlre to reeiord my !
efforts In hehnlf at the party, ruther j
than serine In me any special fit- j
neon, ?Jlil ine the honor to suggest
iny nnme for the Stnte ehair
j mnn*hi|i. t positively declined to be '
considered for this honor on the j
iiround tluit the poMltlon would de- j
ninnd more time anil work than I
could jrlve to It. I leave no further
thought to the suggestion. How
ever. at the recent meeting of the
State Democratic Committee and
since my friend*, wlthont request j
or hint from me, linve kindly pro
p on I'd me for natlonnl commlttee
mnn. for which great party distinc
tion my name will be presented to
the Hoanoke convention, nud I ask !
the support of nil Democrat* who j
feel that my pnrty services warrant
me In now sweking this very ?creat
honor. HOllER A. JAM1SS.
[Special Th* Times-Dispatch.] I
WASHINGTON. May 4.?Whil? Rep- i
resentative Carter Glass has never in- j
tended to enframe in a formal campaicn j
for the position of national commit tee
I man. it can be definitely stated that h? !
I will accept the berth if it Is tendered
1 him by the Roanoke convention, not
? withstanding the avowed candidacy of
> former State Senator Rorer A. James,
| of Danville. In other words, the Lynch
i burg Congressman will not him?elf |
1 make any Regressive or organized con- |
test for the place, but his name will |
j go l^fore tne State convention, regard- !
I less of whether or not Mr. James and j
| his friends bitterly fight hint.
I Mr. Glass's candidacy for the national
! committee membership from Virginia is
1 the result of suggestions from Senator
j Mart in and Representative Flood, who
I promised him their support in the event
i he permitted the use of his name. La
! ter. Representatives Hay, Watson. Hol
j land. Jones ar.d Montague voluntarily
I offered their support should he be a
j candidate. During the past few days.
! since Mr. James entered tho race, Rep
? reaentatives Hay, Flood, Watson, llol
| land. Jones and Montague have reiterat
j eil to Mr. Glass their Intention of sup
[ porting hirn before the Roanoke con-j
i vent ion. j
' YIIIGIMA l.KADKHS
1'I.AIN I.Y KM BA It It ASSKI) j
I The Virginia Democratic leaders in |
i Washington are plainly embarrassed 1
by Mr. Jatnes's candidacy, in view of 1
| their promises to Mr. Glass. They I
feel that they are responsible for Mr. j
j Glass's announcement, as they had urg- (
led him to stand for national commit
' teeman In view of the conspicuous ser- '
vice he has rendered the Democratic
! party and the Wilson administration in ?
'congress. They felt that, recognition)
I was coming to him from the Democracy |
I of his own State. Mr. James and many i
i of the Virginia leaders in Washington J
| are warm personal friends. They also,
| realize that he has a claim upon their
| Influence for any party honors he may
i desire. Therefore, Mr. James's candi
dacy, coming as it did alter the big
party leaders in Washington had urged
Mr. Glass to become a candidate and
promised him their support when ho
consented, has created serious embar
rassment.
Senator Martin to-v.ight stated that
he could not discuss the situation aris
ing out of the candidacy of Mr. Jaines.
Mr. Glass also declined to discuss the
matter.
The Democratic loaders are making
efforts to straighten out the situation.
DISAGREE ON IMPORTANT
FEATURES OF ARMY BILL
Federal Volunteer Plan and Nitrate j
Plant Amendment Cause
of Rreak.
CONFEREES NOT IN ACCORD
i
Main Points Seem to Re Only Irrec- 1
onrilahle Differences, AcrordinR toI
Chamberlain, Who Still Hopes i
Good .Measure Can Re Worked Out.;
WASHINGTON. May 4.?Conferees on j
the army reorganization bill latj to
day disagreed on important features
of the measure, and adjourned until j
matters in disagreement can be taken
up in the Rouse. The rorks on which
the committee hroke were the Federal
volunteer army and the Jl5.rt00.000 gov
ernment nitrate plant amendments
adopted by the Senate.
Notwithstanding the. disagreement,
Senator Chamberlain, chairman of the
Seriate conferees, .said to-night he had
hopes that a good bill eventually
would he worked out.
"Tho House conferees would not
yield to the Senate provision for the
volunteer army or the government
nitrate, plant." said th* Senator. "There
are a number of minor points in the
bill also which are in disagreement.)
But the main points seemed thus far
to be the only Irreconcilable features.!
We do not expect to take up the dls-j
puted points In the Senate at this time,
because our conferees are unanimous,
and the Senate has already passed on
the subjects In controversy."
Up to the time of the break the con
ferees had been making good progress
on regular army reorganization and re
serve features. They had tentatively
agreed on a standing army In peace
time of 1S0.000 men, 40,300 men more
than the House bill carried, and of
220.000 in time of war or threatened
war. They also agreed to the House
bill reorganization plan for the Na
tional Guard, which would provide for
federalization of this reserve force and
its expansion to approximately 400,000
men.
PHKSIDBXT IN FAVOR OF
ARMY HESKUVK SECTION
Early in the day Representative Hay,
chairman of the Houso conferees, dis
cussed the volunteer army reserve sec
lion of the Senate bill with President
Wilson. The President was understood
to favor it. Representative Hay Is said
to have told the President, that the
House would not accept the volunteer
force. This section of the Senate bill
makes provision for a Federal re
serve force of approximately 200,^00
citizen-soldiers, in addition to the Na
tional Guard.
Champions of the National Guard
feared that the proposed new forco
would operate to the great disadvan
tage of tho guard, and there was
strong opposition to the plan in both
House and Senate.
Representative Hay also discussed
with the President the nitrate plant;
feature, and tho President insisted that]
It should be left In the bill. This at-j
titude of the President Is understood!
to have precipitated the disagreement J
to-day.
In accordance with his pledge to the'
House on the nitrate Issue made when'
the bill was sent to conference, Chair
man Hay could do nothing except ask.
the House for further Instructions. J
If the President continues to Insist,
on tho nitrate plant provision, it was;
declared, another clash between Iho,
executive and the House would ensue, j
Republicans are standing solidly against
the nitrato provision, and many Pemo-i
crats also oppose It.
ROOT SANCTIONS CAMPAIGN j
Connrntfl to Fight In IIIh llehHlf for [
Republican Prenlde n * Im 1
Nomination.
NEW TORK, May 4.?Formal an-{
nouncement that Elihu Root has sanc-j
tioned tho campaign conducted In hla,
behnlf for the Republican presidential!
nomination was made here to-day by
former Congressman John D. Dwlght,'
who is in charge of the Root head-!
quarters In this city. The statement!
was Issued as a denial of reports that'
Mr. Root was not a candidate for the!
nomination. J
JAMES M. SULLIVAN HELD I
FOR PHUT IN IRISH PLOT
Former American Minister tn Santo
Domingo Under .Arrest
I in Dublin.
[LEFT NEW YORK LAST JULY j
Career us American Diplomat Was
Brief and Sensational and Kittled >
in Resignation After Investigation 1
Into His Fitness for Place.
| LONDON, May 4.? James M Sullivan, j
of New York, formerly American min
ister to Santo Domingo, hns heeu ar- !
rested in Dublin on the charge of com
plicity in the Irish rebellion.
Mr. Sullivan was arrested by the mili
tary authorities of Dublin on April 30.
Mrs. Sullivan, who was with her hus
band, wrote on May 1 a letter, which
has just been received by Walter Mines
Page, the American ambassador, who!
addressed a note to Sir Edward Grey.
? the Foreign Secretary, ashing full in
.formation as to whether Mr. Sullivan
' was still tn custody, the nature of the
, charges and how soon he would b?
| tried.
; It Is understood here thnt Mr. Sul
| livan has b?en in Ireland for a con
siderable time, having arrived there
j shortly after the severance of his con
' nection with the Stale Department.
i-VSKS STATIC IIEI'AHT.MBNT
TO LOOK INTO CASK
WASHINGTON', May 4.?Mrs. Sull
ivan, wife of James M. Sullivan, for
mer American minister to the Domini
can Republic, to-day asked the State
; Department to look into her husband's
! case. She is now in New York,
j Mr. Sullivan's career as American
[minister to the Dominican Republic
j was brief and sensational, and ended
1 in his resignation under charges which
ja commission appointed hy the State
Department, headed by Senator Phe
1 lan. Investigated and found he had been
j guilty of indiscretions which unfitted
j him for his place. The charges con
cerned Sullivan's alleged participation
of contracts on the island, but no evi
dence was found that he had profited,
j When he left oflice Sullivan said lie
: was' going to Ireland for a vacation.]
; The news of his arrest for alleged!
! complicity in thr- Dublin uprising was
; the first news of him since ho lc/t the
j diplomatic .service.
! _
j KVIORY lOKKOIlT W il l, |||3 >|A|>F.
TO SRtTRK ins hici.kask1
j NEW YORK. May 4.?Leaders of the
I cause of Irish independence in this city
i united in declaring that every effort'
will be ninne to bring about the release
; of James M. Sullivan, arrested in Dub-!
i They nrc convinced, they said, that
; he took no active part In the prepara
tions for the recent revolt, and based
I tlieir opinion on letters recently re-;
ceived from him. The State Depart-:
jmcnt, it was asserted, will ho asked
to intervene because of Sullivan's cit
izenship.
Jeremiah O'henry, an intimate friend
of Sullivan, declared he went to Ire
land last .Tune with his wife and small
son merely to live with his father-in-!
law. Stephen O'Mara, a former Mayor
of Limerick, and known as the "Irish
bacon king." According to the testi
mony of witnesses at the investigation!
conducted by Senator rholan. of Call-'
fornla. Into Sullivan's conduct as mln-l
Ister to Santo Domingo, Sullivan was I
active and well known In Irish-Amnri-,
can circles. Including the Clan-na-Gael. i
Sullivan was born in Klllarney, Tre-i
land, on June fi. 1873, and camo to the!
United States with his family when
very young.
Page President.
WASHINGTON, May 4.?Thomas Nel
son Page, American ambassador to
Italy, who saw President Wilson to
day, said he saw no Immediate peace!
prospect In Europe, but believed that
when peace came. It would be sudden
ly, Just, as the war began. Ho thought
peace would follow a groat victory.
Ho did not t.hlnk that efforts to me
\ dlate would be welcomed at this time.
Procession Opening Shakespeare Pageant at Richmond College
...
Photo hv Foster.
FARM101 UNO BILL
? PASSES SENATE, SB TO S
?
j Embodies Administration pian for
Establishing System of Ru
| rul Credits.
; I,KO\ IDKS FOR HOARD OF FIVE
! Favorably Acted On, After Two
J Weeks of Debate, Practically as
1 Reported by Ranking Committee.
| Will Re Considered in House.
I WASH INCiTON, May 4.?The Mollis
j farm land loan bill, embodying the ad
j ministration plan for establishing a[
j system of rural credit.*, pushed the Son- |
: ate to-night by a vote of f>S to S.
; Senators Brandegee. Lodge. Oliver.
Page, and Wadsworth. all Republicans,
\oted ng<iir.st t ho uionsuro.
rim bill, after almost two weeks of
debate, passed the .Senate practically
as reported by the Hanking Commit
u'*/ An a m end men t by Senator Smoot
reuueing the salaries of the farm loan
?card from $10,000 to 57..',00. adopted
Hi the committee of iho whole, was re
considered when the hill reached the
j.Senate, and defeated.
! A somewhat similar bill has been
! reported bv the House Hanking Com
| in it tee, and. it Is said, will be brought
I up for consideration in the House soon
Kike the Senate measure It would
. t eate loan banks, but It differs In
l mean? of operation.
' T,h,? Se"a,e bt" Provides for a non
partisan farn, loan board to consist of
: the .Secretary of the Treasury, and four
I <>thcrs having general control of a farm
oan system. twelve or more land
, bunks, through which loans actually
v. ould be maile. |
KACII I1ANK IIA VK
tAI'lTAL OK #500.000
Kadi land bank would have a capl- I
| tal ot.ick 01 at least $500,000. to be sub- 1
?v 1! M'"8 c not ;
jb> the public. The farm loan associa
tions would be co-operative, made up of
ten or more farmers, who would ob
1 hnnV vT fr?m th"lr d,str?et "and
"ink. A farmer desiring to become a
j?'?rrow*r would be required to take1
sto?k m the loan association equal to
!LP?01.. Ce"1' "f ,,iS Joa,,: th0 ,0?" as
sociation would in turn, take an equal
amount of stock in the land bank
which would appraise the security of
fered and make the loan through the
.issocntion. nn mortgages amounting
to ,.,0.000 a bank might issue a like
amount of farm loan bonds, which '
would be secured by all twelve land1
iNinK.s
All profits would go to the loan as
sociations 1,1 dividends, and thus to the
boirowers who nro shareholders in
' I-oa"8 nilght be on as lone
terms as thirty-six years and on r|,e
.imor.ization plan, so that with each In
terest payment, the farmer could Pav
a small amount on his principal. u,?s
would be limited to first mortgages I
and could not exceed r.0 per cent, of j
tht appraised value of the land. i
The principal fight on the bill was
dntcted at the sections exempting tho
banks and their mortgages irom taxa
tion, and permitting employees to bo
chosen without regard to the civil ser !
vice. Roth were defeated bv nartv
votes. ? ' * I
GAIN IN LONDON EXPORTS !
for K?r?< Four Month* of Iftlrt Exceed!
by >13.000,000 <.'orre>u>ondlii?f I
Period I,aat Yenr.
LONDON", .May 4.?Figures collected '
by Consul-Henera 1 Skinner show that!
exports from the port of London to i
the United States during the first four
months of the year 1016. Increased Six
000,000 o.rre.pondfn"p.r,W
of last year. Tho increase was duo
chiefly to the diversion of trade caused
by the Hritish blockade*
OFFICIALS FEAR
CONDITIONS WILL
BE IMPOSSIBLE
President Prepared to Stand
Unalterably by His An
nounced Position.
OFFICIAL COPY OF NOTE
EXPECTED BY TO-NIGHT
Perturbation Expressed in Berlin
Over Effect Concessions May
Have on Public Opinion.
LONG DIPLOMATIC DOCUMENT
Adheres in Principles Enunciated in
Manifesto of Feb
runry 8
WASHINGTON. Majv 4.?Germany's
reply ' to the demand of the United
'states for Immediate abandonment of
present methods of submarine warfare,
I delivered to Ambassador Gerard to-day,
j was awaited by officials of the Wash
' tnptor scovernmetit to-night with ex
pe^tnnl tension. They wore, without
any definite idea of what the commu
nication contained. A brief message
from Ambassador Gerard, as well as
press reports, however, had created the
Impression that the imperial govern
ment would propose conditions which
the United States could not accept.
j It was reiterated that President W 11
j ?or\ stood unalterably by the position
| declared in the note to Germany?that
?the abandonment of present submarine
f methods must be declared and effected
j Immediately or the United States must
I sever diplomatic, relations. This de
I mand was designed to permit of no
| argument, and high officials repeated
I ly have asserted that anything short
iof a literal compliance would be fol
lowed by a diplomatic rupture.
The official copy of the not6 hardly
will reach Washington before to-mor
row night, but the document, was given
to the pr^BS in Berlin late to-night
and the unofficial text, was expectcd
to reach the United States early to
morrow morning
MESSAC.E FHO.M UEIIARD
NOT ENTIRELY CLEAR
Ambassador Gerard's message was
sent before he had examined the note
itself. Us meaning was not entirely
Hear, because of errors In transmis
sion cf the diplomatic cipher.
Secretary Lansing declined to oom
ment on the message or make It pub
lic. because he feared It was garbled or
that Mr. Gerard, not having seen the
note Itself, might have made Inaccu
rate deductions. Furthermore, the am
bassador had Indicated that his mes
sage trust be regarded as being highly
confidential.
Secretary Lansing sent tho dispatch
vo' the White House for the Informa
tion of President Wilson. At the same
time an effort was rrade to have tho
errors of transmission corrected. It
appeared to-night, however, that tho
contents of the note would be known
before tho corrections could be made.
Officials gave especial consideration
to press dispatches, saying that th<*
German Chancellor would have the Qei>
man public behind him In efforts t<Ji
avoid a breach of relations with th*
United States, "so far as can be dona
without sacrificing the principle enun
ciated In the German manifesto of Feb*
ruary 8."
TO TREAT AS WARSHIPS
ARMED MERCHANT SHIPS
This manifesto of February 8 an*
I nounced to the world Germany's inten
| tion of treating us warships armed
! merchant ships of hostile nations. 1%
juas clearly indicated that In the ?u?
i ture Germany lntendod to sink without
j warning belligerent merchant ships car
I vying armament, on the ground that
they were armed for purposes of of
[ fense, and that commanders of British
j iiivrchanttnen had instructions to at
tack German submarines.
i The position of the United States is
| that merchant ships have a. right to
1 arm themselves for defensive purposes,
I and that as long as that armament was
i carried and uted for defense the ves
| sels should receive the same, treatment ?
as other peaceful trading ships. This
position was restated and elaborated
upon in a memorandum on the subject
prepared by Secretary Lansing at the
direction of President Wilson, and only
t a few dayb after the dispatch of tho ?
note to Germany, sent to the govern
ments of TOurope, neutral as well as
l.ellinerent.
Some officials to-night found a hope
ful indication In a press dispatch whioh
stated that considerable perturbation
was apparent in Berlin over the effect
which "concessions" to be mado might
have on German public opinion.
President Wilson and Secretary Lan
sing prepared to remain up late to
night to see the unofficial text of the
reply carried in press dispjtches, but
abandoned the idea when It became
known that the dispatches would not
be available before morning. A spoolal
corps of operators was kept on duty
at the State Department to receive the
oftletnl text, though at midnight word
had not come from Ambassador Gerard
that he was ready to start the docu
ment.
IgERAUD CALLS ON JAfiOW
TO RECEIVE GERMAN REPLY
1 BERLIN, May 4, 5:35 P. M. (by wire
| less to Sayvllle).?Janw W. Gerard, tho
[American ambassador to Germany, had
