TTisTf
F
NIGHT
EXTRA
Jcimtm
NIGHT
EXTRA
Cv
roii. n.-tto. 201
PHILADELPHIA, P1UDAY, MAY 5, 1010.
Ooftntonr. 1010, bi tns Pbbmo Lcnota Comfaki,
PRICE ONE OB NT
fPWra
INANCIAL EDITION
0WJ& $k M JlH o im A. jm .i i " riik. ii(4r
GERMANY YIELDS IN U-BOAT
DISPUTE; CRISIS SEEMS PA
ST
GERMAN ORDERS TO U-BOA TS
. ,
'''In accordance with the general principles of
search and destruction of merchant vessels, as recog
nized by international law, such vessels both WITHIN
AND WITHOUT THE AREA DECLARED A WAR
ZONE (the waters around the British Isles) shall not
be sunk without warning and without saving human
lives, unless ships attempt to escape or offer resistance.'
ORDER BY MAYOR
FAILS TO SATISFY
PENROSE FACTION
McNichol Has Little Faith
in Instruction to Shun
Politics
Pare champions smith
Leaders Express Yiew3
of Mayor's Order to Police
cantor MxNSMinl "The Ticonlc
who arc responsible for political
conditions should first leave men
. t ncf fnr themselves in DO-
litical matters and then tnlk peace
or harmony."
Senator Varc "My friends are
in favor of the right kind of har
mony, but not; the kind that was
broueht about by the Catlin Com
mission. It is only natural that
officeholders should make a cnoico
between candidates."
Select Councilman Trainer "If
theMayor is acting in good faith,
1 would suggest that ho request
.IT ICiUnn nnrl nnnrtint n. Tlntt-
nirtiaan man In his place."
U Uavni. Smtt li 'AT v atntompnt.
'jjJHicLat midnight, is intended as
lj order to all city empldycs and
uie poucc to Keep out ox pontics.
I will ;cnforce it in cycry instance.
tWilson and have no intention of
dismissinc" anv member of mv
Cabinet."
', City employes, excluding women,
.about 11,000.
County employes, not cncctcd by
Mayor Smith's order, 1253.
Votes formerly controlled by city
'and county employes, about 77,000.
ruw.-3 coniruuea oy county cm
ljloyes, 7518.
'fc-Jthat the. Smlth-Varo administration Is
Ht"fi viisia uuu uiui llieru IS lime
iv. i.vf imjn: w iiui ittuiij- uciwccil UIQ wura
iihs ittuiiuua ui ine jiupuuucan organi
sation was evidenced by conflicting views
w r1""11 ut,, uiiuu hihj v. tannin n
!trnlng to officeholders and police to keep
Ifiltt tt TIAllHmi
B SfaTnP Smith Init.r mnnn..nn4 ,., ll.
plMement, Uaurd nt mlilnlsht, I Intended
orurr id an ciiy employee una
tit police to keep out of politics, lis auld
noma enforce it In every Initance.
i VVtlSn &9kp(t hntV hn IntondsH tn anfnwnr
Ms order, the Mayor replied: ,
-"Why don't you ask the District Attor
ney. Why don't you go out and stir up
. political factions so there will be
only one left after the prlmarieaT I am
CM of politics and I am not going to talk
IDY mnr nntltfno until ..- .u .-
1 int".?0'"8 t0 keen n n?hllt,B tr the)
felhat Venrose-McNIchol leaders are not
Itaclined, to look upon Mayor Smith's state-
kij "" "mn a warning to oince
M&tn and that he will have to advance
iZ . wun nis pacincation er-
TiV:,, ,.. . " "' "'" manner in wnicn
HS . crlt1lcl!ed the statement and spoke
g j -uuaiion generally.
ri- - -. iimner, select councilman
m. . -1- . iraiu, a. tunuer vara leaaer
IS?..3 turned In with the Penrose-
?-Mol faction, 'when told of the
AATOITS oritai mua n- .i t. i
of A i-mo u uiiuii uiaieuu
nJu Tha Jta'r. declared Trainer,
touiq Rot give a stronger proof of his
3 'J'?' faith than by his failure to
IaBaTkV, """"UeB lO laiK.
9 Wiyor's declaration that the-pollce
ITia j ""ow u Kepi out or pontics
tr Wilson In issuing an order warning
CtntWd on rle yom, Co'lumn One
& THE WEATTTWR
MZ w - ial .y
SbIeiX!!!ln8 !s flna about May even her
,L,.,l,2!!i,,d.,,vl!.,
Uloi- lit. ' V1"1 absorb tnem I"10 one'"
taemhpi?,,a oenedlctlon. If we could re,
.ijl,ecuratel" wo woul1 even
Ht rtrr.T,r """ rm snakespeare about
rPttll a" thB Bentle dew from
S'i' the troub'e i thatvery
gS quote something from memory we
KESt". lrro.uV' Howbeit. we reallv ouht
SS' tor this plunge Intp lyrlo
WW.'or wlth us the coming of
fadtV.? 2rJ ma ""session which we do
nnj! ,7" ye nave a new Joyous obses-
ssuae!
SfiK Shil?delphta wid vicinity
m&diJn i? tonahti Saturday air;
BSaSSIi .???" n temperature;
KsgW thxftxng winds.
10SI AND Porr-Mn
j.r-T'.Voat. Tualiiv at.rnI MH. k.J
fir TJKS i.Mi, 9, diamond In c.at: -
UslWtiJi J"'"u'". oui itarau-
""Winia'M '&", tbalr stock, la the
k. ri t -3HT rh-lr. a,' tu,l .
Cte,aii i. ? . s-r
4 MORE LEADERS
OF IRISH REVOLT
SHOT BY BRITAIN
Seven Chiefs in All Exe
cuted Ten-Year Penal
ties for Seventeen
ACT IN SULLIVAN CASE
GERMAN REPLY
ALLAYS FEARS
OF U.S. CABINET
No Cause Seen for Break,
' but Counter-Demand
May Raise Issue
AWAIT OFFICIAL WORD
General Feeling of Optimism at
Capital Over Tone
of Note
l'hotn by I y. S.
COUNTESS MARKIEWICZ
Active participant in the Irish
uprisinpr who is now n prisoner
of the English nnd may have to
fnce trial for treason. Her hus
band 13 a Polish artist. A
brother is nn EnKlish knight nt
Manchester.' During the Dublin
fighting she Is reported to hnve
been wounded. Some months ngo
her home was raided by the po
lice on n charge that she was
distributing pro-German litem-
ture.
DUBLIN', May 5. Four more lenders
of the Irish revolution' were shot this
morning.
They had been found guilty of treason
by a general court-martial.
Those executed were Joseph I'lunkett,
EdmurTd Daly. Michael O'Hannahnn and
William Pearse.
Plunkett was one of the Beven Sinn
Felners who signed the proclamation de
claring Ireland free ana Independent of
Ilngland.
The other three took nn active part
In preparing for the uprising, nnd were
engaged In the actual righting, but were
not signers of the proclamation.
The death sentences we're carried out
by a firing squad at dawn
Seven leaders have now paid the death
penalty for the part they played In the
revolution. Besides Plunket. three other
of the seven signers of the republican
proclamation P. II, Pearse, president of
the republic; Thomas J. Clarke, In whose
shop the plana were laid, and Thomas
McDonagh have been executed.
The following oiliclal report was given
out: "The following 15 men, who had
been sentenced to death by the court
martial, subsequently had their sentences
commuted to 10 years' penal servitude.
'Thomas Sevan, Thomas AValsh, Finian
Lynch, Michael Mervyn, Denis O'Cal
laghan, P. E. Sweeney, Patrick McNestry,
Peter Clancy, William Tobln. George Ir
vine, John Doherty, J. J. Walsh, James
Mellnn, J, J. Reld and John Williams.
"Another prisoner, John McGarry, who
had been sentenced to death, had his sen-
Continued on Tafo Fire, Column Two
liu n Staff CorrcspJiutcnt
WASHINGTON'. May 5. There will bo
no break with Germany on Its noto reply
ing to President's Wllpon mibmarlno de
nials, but It Ih IipIIcxciI that a break
cannot be avoided later In case tho United
Stales eventually dons not nucccedln in
ducing llnpland to ob"!cro International
law ns dellncd In the counter-demand In
the present note.
This was the position tnken by n lead
ing member of the Cabinet, who asserted
further that the noto w.ih entirely nc
i ceptablc. as far ih It gnes. to this Govern
ment lb KilA that the note was tho
i mo"t friendly nnd the strongest Germany
hnd wiittcn It Rives evidence of tho
i Intention of Germany to concede for a
1 timo being all that Is demanded by the
I United States. This cnncecilon makes It
, Impossible for tho United Spates to break
i with Germany over this note, which, how
, ever, does not finally settle the dlsputo
1 between the United States nnd Germany.
Tho gencinl sentiment ot the entire" Cab
Inot. after Its two hours and a half con
sideration of the unofficial note, was
1 wholly optimistic. This feeling was re
flected by members of Congress also.
No official announcement could bo ex
pected from the White House, It was said,
until tho President received the official
text from Ambassador Gerard. This be
gan arriving In code by cable today. It
Is coming very Blowly and will require
from five to six hours to decOdo,
The final decision of the President is
ppt expected, therefore, before latq to
"morrow. Cabinet members refused to discuss the
German notu In any way. It Was Indl--catcd,
however, that there was strong
hope of a satisfactory settlement based
on the note. It was said no special ses
sion of the Cablnot would bo necessary,
and Postmnster General Burleson said he
was going fishing.
Tho President himself read the noto to
tho meeting, and a long nnd earnest dis
cussion of Its contents followed
Cabinet members had been getting tho
reply piecemeal as It came from the press
telegraph wires. They went Into confer
ence with one apparent thought Germany
has conceded the demands of the United
States. But there was some showing of
uncertainty becauso ot the conditions
made.
The sudden transition in the German
note from Its sarcastic and contentious
tone, belittling the Unitc-1 States' atti
tude to flat statements that met virtually
all concessions called for by this Govern
ment, left Cabinet members somewhat con
fused. BELIRVB CRISIS PASSED.
The general Inclination seemed to be
to declaro the submarine Issue virtually
closed. '
The fact that Germany requires Great
Britain to cease operations which she
terms contrary to International law was
Inclined to accept Germany's request that
this Government undertake to bring about
such a change as Justifiable. It was
pointed out that Germany had Issued the
order that meets the President's conten
tions.
If Germany later, because the United
States falls to bring Great Britain to meet
tho German contentions, rescinds tho or
ders announced today, that will be a new
Issue for the United States to face. It
ias no part In the present situation, it
was said.
DOUBTS EXPBKSSED.
On the other hand, some officials be
lieve Germany again has "passed the,
buck" to tho United States, and by the
very nature of her reply "put this coun
try on probation," making thei successful
settlement of the present dlrtlculty en
tirely dependent upon this country's at
titude toward Great Britain.
So far as the language of the note Is
concerned officials are inclined to pas3 over
certain caustic and irrelevant passages as
being for "home consumption,"
Germany's rejection of this country's
evidence in the Sussex case is, however,
a thorn In the side of optimism. This
Government had considered the case
Continued on Ias Tug, Column Six
Evening Ledger Circulation
M
(For Six Months)
Daily Average for November , . . 94,601
Daily Average for December , , . 96,785
Daily Average for January . , 99,214
Daily Average for February, 104,115
v Daily Average for March, 110,721
Daily Average for April, 117,310
The foregoing figures represent actual net paid circula
tion of thisnewspaper, eliminating, all returned and free,
copies.
KAISER ISSUES NEW ORDERS
TO SUBMARINE COMMANDERS
IN AND OUT OF WAR ZONE
Demands, However, That Britain Also
Be Forced to Keep the Law of the
Sea Promises to Give Warn
ings to All Ships
Concedes Wilson's Demand That Rules of War Be Ob
served Regarding Both Passenger and Freight
Carrying Vessels Berlin Sure U-Boat
Masters Will Obey
BERLIN, May 5. Germany has yielded substantially every point wado
by President Wilson in his note demanding a complete chnnRc in German
methods of submnrinc wnrfnre. This is conceded in the German reply made
public here today. Every possibility of a diplomatic break between the two
countries has apparently been averted.
Germany's complete backdown, however, is made conditional on tho
success of efforts it urges tho United States to mnkc to force Great Dritaiit
to observe fully the principles of international law.
"Should the steps taken by the Government of the United States (to
force England to alter her conduct f war) not attain the object it desires
to have the laws of humanity followed by all belligerent nations the German
Government would then be facing a new situation in which it must reserve
to itself complete liberty of decision," said the concluding paragraph of the.
reply.
Germany concedes fully President Wilson's contention that in the future
no merchant vessel, whether freighter or passenger liner, shall be sunk with
out warning, cither within or without the wnr zone around the British Isles,
unless they offer resistance or attempt to escape. President Wilson nlready
has conceded the right of submarines to sink ships tinder such conditions.
German submarine commanders already have received new orders, meet
ing in full the demands made by President Wilson. The German Government
expresses implicit confidence that these orders will be executed in good faith
by the German submarine commanders.
QUICK NEWS
BRITISH RELEASE TEUTONS TAKEN FROM U. S. SHIP
tiONJION. May 5. The British Government today gave orders
for the release of 33 men token from the American steamship China
by a British cruiser while en route fioni Shanghai to San Francisco.
U. S. EMPLOYE "FIRED" FOR ATTACK ON WILSON
WASHINGTON, May 5. truest BruiicUen, nssUtant registrar In
the copyright division of the Tjibrnry Congiess, was dismissed today
lor uiiiMiig .stntcineutH tlerogutory to Picsldciil Wilson mid the United
.Btntt'b lii jclicrnl.
TEXT' OF THE GERMAN REPLY
Tho following is the text of the German reply:
The undersigned, on behalf of the Imperial German Govern
ment, has the honor to present to his Excellency, the Ambassador of
the United Stntcs, James W. Gerard, the following reply to tho note
of April 20 regarding the conduct of German submarine wnrfarc.
Tho German Government handed over to tho proper naval au
thorities for further investigation evidence concerning tho Sussex,
ns communicated by the Government of the United States.
,, Judging by tho results that investigation liitherto yielded tho
German Government is alive to the possibilities that the ship men
tioned in the noto of April 10, as being torpedoed by a Gorman sub
marine, is actually identical with the Sussex.
' The German Government begs to reserve further communication
on the matter until certain points are ascertained which are of decis
ive importance for establishing tho complete facts in tho case.
WILL NOT FAIL TO DRAW CONSEQUENCES
Should it turn out that the commander of tho submarine was
wrong in assuming the vessel Sussex to be a man-of-war, the Ger
man Government will ndt fail to draw consequences resulting
therefrom.
In connection with the case of the Sussex tho United States
made a series of statements., the gist of which is tho assertion that
tho incident to be considered was but one instance of a deliberate
method of indiscriminate destruction of vessels of all sorts and all
nationalities and destinations by German submarine commanders.
The German Government must emphatically repudiate the as
sertion. However, the German Government thinks it of little avail to
enter into details in the present stage of affairs, more particularly
as the Government of the United States omitted to substantiate
assertions by reference to concrete facts.
The German, Government will only state that it has imposed far
reaching restraint upon the use of the submarine weapon solely in
consideration of the interest of neutrals, in spite of the fact that
these restrictions were necessarily of advantage to Germany's
enemies.
No such consideration has ever been shown to neutrals by
Great Britain and her allies.
PRINCIPLES OF VISIT AND SEARCH
German submarine forces hnve, in fact, had orders to conduct
submarine warfare in accordance with the general principles of visit
and search. The destruction of merchant ships has been recognized
by international law, the sole exception being the conduct of warfare
against enemy trade carried on against enemy freight ships en
countered in tho war zone waters around Great Britain (British
Isles), With regard to these no assurances were ever given to the
United States Government.
No such assurances were contained in tho declaration of Feb
ruary 8, 1916.
The German Government cannot admit that it has any doubt
about these orders being carried out in good faith (by the sub
marine commanders), '
Errors actually (may have) occurred. In no kind of warfare
can they be avoided altogether and allowances must be made in the
conduct of naval warfare against an enemy that is resorting to
all kinds of ruses, be they permissible or illegal.
DANGERS FOR NEUTRALS IN WAR ZONE. '
But apart from the possibility of-errors, naval warfare, like war
fare on land, implies unavoidable dangers for neutral persons and
goods entering a fighting zone.
Even in cases where naval actions were confined to the ordinary
form of cruiser (man of war) fighting, neutral persons and goods
have repeatedly come to grief.
The German Government has repeatedly and explicitly pointed
out dangers of mines that have led to the loss of numerous ships.
" PROPOSALS TO REDUCE TRAVEL u
The German Government has made several proposals to the Gov-
ernment of the United States in order to reduce to a minimum for
American travelers and goods the (inherent) natural dangers of
naval warfare.
Unfortunately, the Government of the United States decided not
to accept the proposals. Had it accepted them the Government of
the. United States would have been instrumental in preventing a
POOR RICHARDS FUND GAINS $1025 TODAY
The Poor Richard Club announced this nt'tcrnoon that $1025 -was
contributed today in the campaign for 975,000 needed for the conven
tion of the Associntcd Advertising Clubs of the World, to-be held
in this city next month.
IRON MERCHANT AND MASON DIES IN OFFICE
Morris E. Ware, 03 years old, of 710 West Berks street, died sud
denly this afternoon in his office nt 805 Jefferson street, where he
was in the structural iron business. He wns a 32d degrccMnson.
PHILLIES AND ATHLETICS ARE IDLE
Neither the Phillies nor the Athletics will play this afternoon.
Rain prevented the Mackmen from engaging Washington in the sec
ond contest of the scries, while the same weather conditions caused
the postponement of the Philllcs-Biooklyn fray.
LOSES POWER OF SPEECH AFTER FALL DOWN STEPS
Charles P. Bannon, 40 years old, of -13 East Walnut lane, became speech
less today nfter an accidental fall. Bannon, who owns several slot machines, was
about to remove ono from a cellar on Frankford avenue nenr Brldgo street, when
ho fell down tho steps, striking his splno. When ho "wofe revived Beverat min
utes Inter, he had lost the power of speech. By means of paper and pencil Bannon
Indicated that he wanted to bo taken to the home of his father, Frank Bannon,
15 Knst Chclton avenue. ThlB wna done. A physician who examined him, fear
that Bannon's allllctlon muy ho permanent.
RAILWAY TELEGRAPHERS ACCEPT MEDIATION
NEW YORK, May 5. All parties of tho threatened strike of the Order of
Railway Telegraphers of tho New York Central nnd Nickel Plato Railroads havo
ofllclally accepted mediation of tho United States Board of Mediation and Con
ciliation. It was announced today by Assistant Commissioner Hanger, of tho
board. The 3000 telegraphers nnd allied craftsmen will remain at work pending
tho outcome.
ALIENS IN NEAR-RIOT IN FEDERAL BUILDING
Morn than 1C0 aliens, who appeared before Judge Dickinson for their final
citizenship test today, cnused n near-riot in tho Federal Building, where they
crowded tho corridor outsido the courtroom and threatened to, invade the court
room In a body. A call for help was sent to the United States Marshal's oftlco
and Chief Deputy Marple. assisted by a scoro of deputies and bailiffs, restored
order after using strong-arm methods.
RAIDING ZEPPELIN DESTROYED IN MACEDONIA
SAI.ONICA. May C. A German Zeppelin, bent on a raid upon the Anglo
French camps, Was destrojed this morning. (This is the second German Zeppe
lin reported destroyed within 24 hours.)
STOCKS DROP ON GERMAN NOTE, THEN RECOVER
NEW YORK, Mny 5. First dispatches on the German reply to the note of
tha United Stntes, which wete viewed with misgiving in Wall Street, caused
prices of stocks to drop from 1 to C points at the start of trading this morning,
but when later advices wore received, which were n complete reversal of the
earlier ones, tho whole market recovered. The majority of the early losses were
recovcied by midday and some few lbsues showed gains, as compared with th
closing of last night. Selling orders were In large volume long before the open
ing nnd Initial dealings were exciting. When tho later advices were received
early bellera turned buyers and the good demand for stocks soon caused an
upturn. ,
TIOGA STEEL COMPANY RAISES EMPLOYES WAGES
Ofllcials of tho Tioga Steel and Iron Company, B2d ttreet and Grays dvenus,
havo granted their employes a 10 per cent. Increase In wages, according to the
announcement of the president of the company today. The steel concern .employ
about 12S men.
CONSCRIPTION EXTENDED TO IRELAND
LONDON. May 5. Tho new military service bill, making conscription gen.
cral, has been amended to include Ireland, according to the Exchange Telegraph.
Another amendment provides Immunity for Irish icbels who took part In the
recent uprUlng If they enlist In the British army. Ireland was excluded from the
original conscription measure.
TIN PLATE WORKERS GET INCREASE
SHAHON, May 5.About 2000 employes of the American Sheet and Tin
Plate Company at the Farrell tin and sheet works will receive, a wage advance
ranging from 4 to 14 per cent, on May 27. This is the second Increase granted
this year.
BEACH RELIEF SHIP CARRYING WHEAT TO BELGIUM
LONDON, May 5. -The Swedish steamship Frldland, which was reported
in a damaged condition nnd In tow of the Dutch steamship Batavia IV, has been
beached. The Frldland, yhlch was under charter by the American Commission
for Relief In Belgium, was on a voyage from Portland, Me., with a cargo of '.7000
tons, of wheat for Rotterdam,
JUDGE LINDSEY SERIOUSLY ILL AFTER OPERATION
DENVER. May 5. Judge Ben B. Llndsey, of Juvenile Court fame, who was
operated on recently for me removal of a tumor from his back, Ilea critically
111 at hla homo here and his ft lends are greatly alarmed over his condition.
What was thought to be an lnslgnincant.growth turned out to be a tumor as large
as a grapefruit. For two days Judge Llndsey's arms were paralyzed as a result
of the operation. He his become weak through loss of blood and a high fever.
ALLIES OCCUPY GREEK TOWN OF FLORINA
ATHENE, May 5, It Is officially announced that (he .allies have occupied
Fiorina. Fiorina Is aitown of about 10,000 population, 16 miles south and a llttl
east of Monasttr, and about 80 miles west of Salgnica.
WILL GIVE $750,000 TO PRESBYTERIAN PASTORS
A bequest of $750,000 to the Presbyterian Board of Relief for Disabled
Ministers and the- Widows and Orphans of Ministers la contained In the will ef
Mrs. Ellen 8- James, who dl4 at her home la Nw York a week ago Bead.
quarters of thu board in In the WUherspoon Bulldin- in this Hy. Mm JamtL
)C4ai(.a ?u iw, WaaalSJ tfWow ot Daniel WUUa James, Jeft an eita valued at H,MfcW,
