REPUBLICAN
AN INDEPENDENT PROGRESSIVE JOURNAL
TWENTY-SIXTH YEAR
12 PAGES
PHOENIX, ARIZONA, FRIDAY MORNING, MAY 5, 1916
12 PAGES
VOL. XXVI, NO 331
THE. ARIZ
German Reply To American
Note Has Been Delivered To
The Ambassador In Berlin
Text is Awaited in Washington With Expectant Tensiois
Officials Are Without Any Definite Idea of What
Communication Contains Brief Message From Am
bassador as Well as Press Reports Create Impression
Imperial Government Would Propose Conditions
Which United States Could Accept.
FRENCH HOLD ON
I
icon
T
T
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
Tin curtain f file of the French
Ii;ih set at naught tile attacks of the
Germans against the trenches which
the French recently captured at Le
Morte Homme. This engagement
(Republican A. P. Leased Wive)
WASHINGTON, May 4. Germany's reply to the
demand of the United States for immediate abandonment
of the present methods of .submarine warfare delivered to
Ambassador Gerard today, was awaited by officials of 1 ho
Washington government tonight with expectant tension.
rri . .. mi . ! c.l. .xi.1.
iney were witnout any aenniie mea oi wnai uie comunin-:wi,ilh is characterized Pan as a
ication contained. A brief message from Ambassador mil1' mf. i!l 'rol,11,,1' 'ne 'iB,,t-
i n ,i , t i i .1 'ins by infantry cm the trench and
Gerard as well as press reports, however, had created tIieiWgjan front, a ? violent t.om
impression that the imperial government would propose ; l',aam:',t ls '""' iTu,a ot
1 . . , , . .r , , Hill 304, northwest of erdun.
eOlKUtlOnS Which the I lilted States CtUld accept. The Germans are still throwing
It was reiterated that President Wilson stood unal-,sihe,1,s in.,srea "1''
.. ,, i lltskull ISndgehead of the Russians on
terably by the position declared in the note t( (u'rinany the eastern from. There also has
that the abandonment of present submarine methods .. heavy Hi-tiiiery duel between
. . ... 1 . . .. . it , the Germans and the Russians in the
must be declared and ettected immediate or the tinted region south r Krevo.
COMMONS HAVE
STORMY TALK
Oil ARMY BILL
-
I WHITMAN DESIGNATES
I AN INDIAN DAY
David Lloyd George Makes
Emphatic Statement That
he Would Rather Leave
Partv Thau Be Responsi
ble for Failure of Bill
MEN IN CRISIS
NEEDED BADLY
Minister of Munitions
States That the Working
Glasses Are With Coun
try to Ihe Finish, Realiz
ing Their Peril
States must sever diplomatic relations. This demand was' Ttf U!;uul bombardments and is-
.. , Hi- i luted infantry attacks are in pro-
uesigneu to permit or no argument ami mgu nmnais ie-iBres on the Austro-itaiian n
peatedly have asserted that nothing short ot a literal com
rout.
The Turks started two offensive
I lia nee would be followed by a diplomatic repture. in the region of Haaiburt and the
Tlif officbil fimv of tlw note Imirllv will roach Wflshiii"-- ",ller m'iir Krzingan. .p-"th were re-
.. 1 . . . . " ' pulsed, according to Pftrograd. The
11 betOlT tomorrow lllght but tile document Was given tO .German seneral Liman von Sanders.
the instruction of
troops in North Smyrna, and
defense measures for Turkey's Aslitic
coast.
j i e
ion oeiore tomorrow nigui out rue uoruiiieiit vas gieu to. German senerai
the press in Berlin late tonight and the unofficial text was . j" upwintMijinit
1 , , . , ,, T .. l. ... , . .Turkish troops in
expected to reacn the United Mates early tomorrow mom
ing.
Ambassador Gerald's message, was
, , ... .... the same treatment as other peace-
aent before he had examined the note fu, ,rj(ling Khjps
itself. Its meaning was not entirely, This position was re-stated mid
c lear because- of errors in transmis-' elaborated upon in a memorandum ..n
sior. of the diplomatic cipher.
Secretary Lansing declined to com
ment on the message or make it pub-
; the subject prepared by Secretary wil n,jt sa
Lansing at the direction of President
Ship Won't Sail
PARIS, May 4 It was officially
nnnounce-d today that the Trench
Line steamer scheduled to sail from
Bordeau for New York on May IT,
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
LONDON'. .May 4. The house of
commons tonight passed the second
reading of the military service bill for
immediate general military compul
sion. A motion by Hichurd 1. Holt
radical, to reject the loll wis pre
viously defeated 3-X to 3t;
The debate on the bill developed no
important new points. David Lloyd
George, the minister of munitions, de-
dared that lie would rather be driven
out of the litieral party and even out
of political life than to have upon his
conscience the responsibility of re
fusing the demands for a supply of men
who might constitute the difference
between defeat and victory.
Sir John Simon, the former home
secretary, in opposing the bill reiter
ated that it was not alone a question
for too military to decide. There was
no evidence lie said, that the Mil
would really add to Great Rritatn's na
tional force and strength. It would
create a maximum amount of hard
ship with minimum results.
Wilson and only a few days after the
Fishina Vessel Sunk
lie because he feared it was garbled dispatch of the note to Germany sent j LoNDoN. May 4 The sinking of a
or that Mr. Gerard, not having seen 1 e gurnmencs or Europe neui-m French fishing vessel V.i) miles from
the note itself might have made in
- accurate deductions. Furthermore,
the ambassador had Indicated that his
as wen as Belligerent. i.ln,i iiy a submarine is reported in
I Some officials tonight found a hope- K official conrmtmteation issued ibis
ful indication in a press dispatch evening. The communication says:
message must be regatded as beinj l,,al lulB"un',u" peiim- Tne i-rencn usmrg schooner nern-
Mehlv- ronfirinntist , bation was apparent in lierllii over adette was sunk in the Atlantic by an
Secretary Lansing sent the dispatch
to the White blouse for the informa
tion of President Wilson. At the same
time an effort was made to have the
errors of 'ransmlssion corrected. It
the effect whic h "concessions ' to 1 enemv submarine on Mav 1 when
m.uie might have on German public lf.fl miles from the nearest land. The
opinion. jcrew of thirty-four escaped in boats.
President Wilson and Secretai y La n- Kight of the crew- were picked up.
sing prepared to remain up li'te to-j Twenty-six are still adrift." .
niolt t. .. n,.r tll.. . . . .1... I
j.p-.ared tonight, however that the " """""-I" " vl ... .
contents or the note woull be known Tiy n press dispat.hc-s btj To Fight for Trade
before the corrections could be mado. f,J1'"" the idea when it ecujoe HfcRU.N. Mav 4-(,a London.l--Officiah-.
gave especial considera-', ,OWn..tl':Jt J" 'J'KDal-'a uil no- Any countries that either are count -lion
to pr,;s dispatches saving tll;,t availaule before mining. A ,,-, Ing on obtaining any .art of Ger
' .. . , cia' corps of operators was kept on many s analine dye trade or making
in: miiiiau comic- nor nuiiiu llrl. ... ' l
the general German nubile behind him ""v a ln mal" iM to re..
I ALBANY, N. '., May 4. A j
proclamation issued by Governor
Whitman today designated May 13
"as American Indian day for ob-
servance by the descendants of j
the first Americans in memorial
and honor to their forefathers." j
The governor invited the attention j
"to the history of the social in-
structions of these people and
especially to the present and future
needs of the five thousand reser-
vation Indians now resident in i
this state." The day will be cele-
brated by Indians throughout the j
country but, so far as known j
New York is the first state to rec-
j ognize the proposed observance. !
The idea of observing Indian day j
1 was adopted by the National con- j
j ference of Indians in Denver in I
I 1S13. j
TENT A TIVE AGREEMENT
IS ACCEPTABLE TO THE
AMERICAN GOVERNMENT
President Wilson Announces
That Conference Between
Hcott and Obregon
.Strengthens Cordial Re
lation of Two Republics
L
n
CDRFEHEES 1
REORGANIZATION
IF SPLIT
lations with United States "so far as
can be done without sacrificing the
lirinciile enunciated in the German
manifesto of February S." !
This manifesto of February . an-'
rio'inced to the world Germany's in-!
tention of treating as warships armed'
merchantmen of hostile nations. j
it was clearly indicated that in th-
future Germany intended to sink
eeive the official tet though at mid
night word had not come from Am
bassador Gerard that lie was ready
'.o start th document.
FOOD COSTS SLIGHTLY MORE
tReoublican A. P. Leased Wire ,
WASHINGTON', May 4. Food for
the average family costs slightly more
now than it did a year ago. accord
ing tit ficritrnu i .1 , 1.1 1 U....1 ,.!.... I.., 41,A
.rT """ mer,"rT;t deTiartmeT.t of' lar Vrn as a
mips carrying armament op the .h,,i , .... ,
.. , . v. ..... .r 1 v.rni llllll-l UUI
ground they were urmed for purposes
i nor VfihriiiiT-v- I In. n U.ir f i .
or offense and that commanders of ruary last A dpcine
Hrltlsil merchantmen h:id inslim tinim - . . ....
, , - pc ice 01 eggs irom January to KeOru-
to attack German submarines.
ary sent down prices as a whole
Food articles
themselves independent of Germany
as regards dyes, must expect a bitter
struggle after, the war.
This Is Indicated by the action of
all the leading chemical concerns in
Germany making analine colors, in
forming a coalition for the protection
of their mutual interests. ,
Nearly all the members of the coali
tion Increased their earnings during
I the past yeur and some of them in
I creased their dividends.
Steamer Floated
LONDON", May 4. The Dutch
steamer Maashuaven. which struck a
mine last Friday while bound from
London for Rotterdam end later was
; lieached near Harwich, has been
floated and is proceeding under tow
The position of the United States j,,)(,ut twn -
is that men-hardships have a right to .0ii tar nine oer cent mor i..t p..v.' if"r tne Thames, according to a dis
nrm themselves for defensive purposes ruary tnan in February five years '"at' h to 1-ltjvd f!-
ind that as long as that armament ago. Only five foods declined in
was carrier! and used for defensive price in the last year plate boiling British Plane Caught
purposes the vessels should receivo beef. lard, flour, cornme.il and nrne A MKTKl'.DA M (Via London). -May
' n. j I'licisil aeiopiiilie inout-u t
Sluisse yesterday after a flight across
I'.elgium. persued by a squadron of
enemy aeroplanes and was interned.
The pursuit was so hot at one point
that the British aeroplane was com
pelled to descend on Belgian soil, but
a few minutes later re-asccndeu and
made a dash for the frontier.
AMBASSADOR GERARD RECEIVES
NOTE FROM HERO VON JAGOW i
' Republican A. P. Leased Wire
BEIILI.V. May 4. fVia London.)
James W. Gerard, the American am
bassador called on Ilerr von Jugow,
the German foreign minister at 5:3r
o'clock this afternoon German time
and after ten minutes of an informal
conversation was handed the German
note to the United htates.
No conference was made to the note
during the ambassador's talk with the
foreign minister.
There was hardly more than the us
ual afternoon crowd In Wilhem Plalz
who saw the ambassador go and re
turn. Nobody evinced the slightest In
terest in the visit, although the trip
had been announced in the afternoon
papers.
VON BERNSTORFF DOES
! NOT RECEIVE CALLERS
The Bourse had a fresh spell of op
timism upon the conclusion of the
period of waiting for Germany's an
swer to the American note while it was
being handed to Ambassador Gerard
this evening.
The Imperial chancellor. Heir von
Kethmann-Mollweg, returned today
Turks Concentrating
I'KTROG HA D, May 4. (Via Lon
don.) Since the fall of Trebi.ond the
three Russian army groups in Asia
Minor have been making steady pro
gress toward .Haiburt, Krzlngan and
Diarbekr, and il stems highly proba
ble that these three objectives of the
Caucasus armies will be reached in
the near future.
A majority of the 1'urkjsh forces
and reinforcements are concentrated
Can Outlast Germany
Speaking on a motion to reject the
military service bin', David Lloyd
George, minister of niunitionsi said in
the house of commons today that he
would rather be driven out of the lib
eral purty, even out of political life al
toKelher, than have upon his con
science the responsibility of refusing
the demands of the military authori
ties for men who miht make all the
difference between defeat and victory.
Those who asserted tiiat if the war
lasted until ls!7 the nation cj'iid not
"stay the course." were boh inaccu
rate and injudicious. He had consult
ed the leading forces of the country,
and they had not the least hesitancy in
affirming that, however long the war
lasted, it could outstay anything Ger
many could do but in any case it wis
wise to apply itself full power forthwith.
.Mr. Llod George argued that until
Russian had completed her equipment
so as to furnish her ammunition and
men it was essential that France and
Kngland nut every available man in
the field.
GermanS', he said, was well aware of
the chance of this country failing to
take the utmost share it possibly
could of this year's burdens immedi
ately, and he ventured to say that the
passage of this" bill would in itself be
about the worst news that the Ger
man general staff could read.
Mr. Lloyd George, pointing out that
all the entente allies were defending
their countries by compulsory service
he argued that if Great Britain had
summoned men to her colors through
out the empire in the same propor
Hon as the French there would have
been twice as many men in service. He
appreciated fully Great Britain's re
sponsibility in financing the allies and
in maintaing trade as well as trans
port difficulties but taking everything
into account. Great Britain had still a
substantial margin of available men
and he wanted both Germany and the
entente allies to know that3f it would
constitute the difference between vic
tory and defeat, between liberty and
submission, this country would sum
mon the whole of that margin to the
colors to defend itself.
The minister ridiculed the idea that
the conscription involved burdening
the working classes and protested
against the notion that the working
people were to be regarded as a sort
of doubtful neutrals.
"The elemental virtues," he declared,
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
WASHINGTON. May 4. Conferees
on til'.' avrnv reorganization bill late to
day disagreed on important features
of the measure and itljourned until
inciters In disagreement can be taken
up in the- hou :e. The rocks on which
the committee broke were the federal
volunteer arms and the i;.iH'0,0(m gov
ernment nitrate plant amendments
adopted by the senate.
Notwithstanding the disagreement.
Sen. lit, r Chamberlain, chairman of tile
seivits conlerees. said tonight he had
hopes that a good hi'! eventually would
be worked out
Up to the time of the break, which
h. d been forecast, the conferees had
been making good progress on regular
all.. reorganization and reserve iea-
t tires. Thev had tentatively agreed on
standing army in time of jieace of
lHii.iit):) men. tM.tl'Mi more than the house
bill cunieci. and an elastic organiza-
ioii M'lieme contained in the senate
till which would provide for expan
sion in time of war or threatened war
to :':'ii.i.mi men. They" also had agreed
to the house bill reorganization plan
for the national guard which would be
provided for federalization of this re
serve force and its expansion to ap-
pioximately 4t-.0"0 men. j
l"ar!y :n t!-e day Representative
Hay. chaiiman of the house conferees.
discussed the volunteer army reserve
section of the senate bill with Presi-
nt Wilson. The president was un
derstood to favor it. although no state
ment was made regarding the confer
ence. Representative Hay is said to
have told the president that the house
would not accept the volunteer force.
champ'oiis of the national guard
feared that the proposed new fore
would operate to the disadvantage of
the gcard. and there was strong oppo
sition to the plan in both house and
senate-. In the senate the volunteer
force won by a majority of only twe
vofs.
Representative Hay in his talk With
the president also discussed the nitrate
plint feature, and the president in
Ktstee' It should be left in the bill.
if the president continues to insist
on the nitrate plant provision, it was
declared, another clash between the ex
ecutive and the house will ensue. Re
publicans are standing solidly against
Ihe nitrate provision, insisting that it
is being urged by Ihe "water power"
lobby. .Many elemocrats also oppose it.
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
WASHINGTON, May 4. President
Wilson announced tonight that the
tentative agreement between General
Scott and General Obregon covering
the future operations of the American
Mexican military forces in Mexico pro
vides "a basis of cooperation which
promises to prevent misundertasnding
and strengthens the cordial relations of
the two republics."
Although there was no formal an
nouncement of the action, notification
that the Scott-Okregon agreement is
acceptable to the American govern
ment was telegraphed to General Scott
at Kl Paso late today by Secretary
Baker. General Scott is authorized to
exchange formal acceptances with
General Obregon as soon as the latter
has obtained the approval of General
I Carranza
state-
TODAY OF SCOTT
AND OBREGON
Complete Details Will Prob
ably Be Arranged Today
for" Military Co-operation
in the Hunt of Villistas
Bands
President Wilson issued this
mem :
"I have examined, with the secre
tary of war the report made by Gen
eral Hugh L. Scott of the conference
between him and General Obregon,
sci retury of the republic of Mexico.
"The report includes a tentative
agreement covering tne future opera
tions of both the American and Mexi
can military forces and evinces cordial
cooperation between the two govern
ments in their e cimmon purpose.
"As this agreement is being submit
ted to the de facto government of
Mexico, it would not be proper for me
to permit its publication until that gov
ernment has an opporunity to examine i
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
EL PASO, Tex. May 4 The thin!
and final conference of Generals
Scott and Obregon, at which tha com
plete details of the agreement for
military cooperation in the hunt of
Villistas will he settled probably will
be held tomorrow morning at the im
migration station located at tha
American end of the international
bridge.
This was announced tonight after
the reply f Secretary of War Baker
to General Scott's re)xrt on the last
conference with General pbresou was
received.
The news that President Wilson
had found the tentative agreement
acceptable was received with satisfac
tion by Mexican officials here. It wn
iiiriictted that General Obregon would
bring to the ensuing conference a for
ma! approval of the agreement by tha
Mexican government and that matters
toon would he adjusted.
In Mexican quarters tonight it was
and consider its provisions. The full I reported that before long the zone of
text of the proposed agreement w ill be I operations f the American troops
given out immediately on its accept- j would be limited to an area some dis
ancc by both governments, la gener- j north of the present base at
CHINO AND UTAH INCREASES
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
NF.W YORK, May 4 Net profits for
the March quurter over the final quar
ter of last year for the L"tah Copper
Company were $7.07 S.S30, of which J6.
188.414 came from milling operations,
ar.d the remainder from investments,
according to a statement given out to
day. In the December quarter of 1915,
the total was Sei.yiH.203.
The Chino Copper company's net in
come for the same period amounted.
it was said to $2.74".;i8s compared with
$2,4tiL716 in the same quarter last
year.
from army headquarters. It is report
ed that he will make explanations In against the center Russian forces and
cue uuuget committee witntn a few the next important battle probably
'days of Germany's reply. WH ir fought in this neighborhood.
Fay Fears Confession Might
Involve Innocent Persons
NEW YORK, May 4. Count von
Bernstorff, the German embassa- j
I dejr who is here with his secretary
j denied himself to interviewers to-
I night however his secretary said j
I he did not believe the ambassador
I hud been apprised of the contents
of the new German note. The j
I secretary added that Count von
Bernstorff had decided to make no
statement. The ambassador, it j
was Buld, probably would return j
to Washington tomorrow.
p
Republican A. P. Leased Wire I
NEW YORK, May 4. Asserting that
"innocent persons" would become In
volved in the alleged bomb plots to
blow up ships here laden with muni
tions for the entente allies, if he were
to divulge the secret of how he ac
quired a quantity of dynamite, with
which to make infernal machines,
Lieutenant Robert Fay of the German
embassy, on trial in the federal court
here, refusejl to answer certain ques
tions propounded to him on examina
tion. Fay, with his brother-in-law,
Walter, Schozl, and Paul Paeche, are
charged with conspiracy to destroy
munitions ships.
The three defendants testified today
in their own behalf, and it was an
nounced at the close of the court's ses
sion that the cuse probably would go
to the jury tomorrow.
Fay, under a rigorous cross-examination
by counsel for the government,
declared the bombs, with which he ex
perimented and which he denied were
intended to destroy vessels, but merely
to disable their rudders, were devised
hy himself alone, and that neither
Scholx nor Daeche was conversant
with the plans.
Scholz and Daeche denied they par
ticipated In any plots.
(Continued on Page Two)
Orders Inquiry
Into Sinking Of
Brazilian Ship
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
RIO JANEIRO, May 4 The Brazil
Ian government has notified the Oer
man legation that 1 has ordered an
urgent Inquiry into the sinking of the
Brazilian steamship Kio Branco in
order to be able to act with certalnty
for the defense of its neutral rights.
Official telegrams received here an
nounce that Rio Branco was torpedoed.
The newspapers are greatly aroused
and unanimously demand energetic
measures be taken by the Brazilian
government.
Yesterday the .le;urnal De Comercio
advocated cooperation with the Uni
ted States to oppose submarine war
fare as it has been carried on. Its
lead is followed today by the other
newspapers, which are strong in their
deunciation.
al, I may say that it provides a basis
of c)peration which ?romises to pre
vent misunderstandings and strength
ens the cordial relatiems of the two
republics."
Pending its formal acceptance by
General Carranza, administration offi
cials here decline to make public the
text of the agreement or discuss its
details in any way. There was no
doubt in official circles, however, that
the plan would be ratified within a
few hours at most and the disturbing
situation on the border and in north
ern Mexico be disposed of. Secretary
Baker carried to the white house to
day General Scott's long report of his
meetings with General .Obregon at
which the agreement was worked out.
Later he also informed Secretary Lan
sing of the plans. Instructions to Gen
eral Scott, authorizing him to hold a
filial confeience with General Obregon
and close the matter up then was pre
pared. It is expected President. Wilson will
issue a formal statement regarding the
agreement as soon as word conies that
General Carranza had approved it. No
official outline of the plan was avail
able tonight, but it is known that in
substance it provides for, an active
campaign by Carranza troops against
bandits in the region south of the
present lines of the American expedi
tion and for the gradual withdrawal
of the American forces to the border,
as the ability of the Mexican troops to
police the country adequately is dem
onstrated. Use of the Mexican railways
in keeping the American expedition I
supplied also is provided and in re
turn the expeditionary forces are
pledged to avoid clashes with thetowns
people in the regions in which they
continue to act.
The limitations of the expedition un
der the agreement have not been dis
closed. It is understod, however, that
It will hold the present lines for the
time being and not proceed to the
south in any event. The best informa
tion at the war departments as to the
present location of the American
forces shows that General Pershing is
at Namiquipa, but that patrols are at
work to the. south of that place pur
tilling scattered bands of outlaws.
General Pershing's reports have indi
cated that the great majority of his
ACCEPTS MEDIATION
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
MAV YORK, May 4. An announce
men here tonight that the New York
Central officially had accepted the
offer of the government to mediate in
the threatened strike of five thousand
telegraphers find signal men on lines
between New York und Chicuo was
followed by a statement from H B
Perham, head of the telegraphers' or
ganuatiou, that he did not think a
stiike call would be issued pending the
negotiations. Mr. Perham added that
'ie expected all differences would be.
nrijusted.
Coionia Dublan.
Governor Called of Sonora has in
struct his columns along the Sono-ra-Ohihuahua
border to be careful to
avoid all contact with General Per
shing's forces.
Ic was said tonight General Scott
had received from Secretary of War
Itaker a telegram expressing the ap
preciation of the president for hi-t
har.dling of the conference w iih Gen
eral Obregon.
As GenernI Obregon possesses plen
ary powers ne win oe iuuy aoie o
make anv arrangements to satisfy the
wishes of ihe AVashington government
as to the exact form the agreement
ivili take. He van in touch with
General Carranza today however, and
is sail to have found his actions in
entire accord with the ideas of the
first chief.
General Se c It's call on Obregon took
pla.v late this afternoon. It lasted,
not r.iore than five minutes. Th
chief of staff of the American army
explained to the Mexican minister of
war that Washington had not replied
to his report on the tentative agree
ment reached Tuesday night and that
a slight further delay in the nego
tiations vva necessary.
Juan M. Amador, Mexican sub-secretary
of foreign relations came to
Juarez today after a hurried trip from
Mexico Citv. He will advise with
General Obregon on some details of
the final negotiations.
General V. Elia.s Calles. military
governor and Adolpho ie La Hueria.
civil governor of Sonora. arrived this
afternoon for a conference regarding
I routine matters. General Calles later
j proceeded to Qtieretaro to join Gen
eral Carranza.
"Rubmerneck" wagons resumei
th-Mr tours through Juarez today for
the first time since the Columbus
raid. They were loaded with tour
ists. General Trevino received a report
that Villista bandits cinder the no
torious Juan Ttobles last night at
tempted to cut the railway tracks be
tween Jimenez and Escolan, but were
frustrated and routed by Carranzistas
under General Ignacio Romas.
General obregcrt brought Mrs. Ob-
(Continued on Tage Two)
(Continued on Page Two)
BELIEVE SETTLEMENT OF
III STRIKE IN SIGHT
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
NEW YORK. May 4. After a con
ference between committees represent
ing the striking marine engineers and
No Novel Procedure In
Sir Roger Cttsement Cases
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
LONDON, May 5. It has been
learned from authoritative sources
that there is no basis for the reports
of the liklihood of the adoption of
any novel procedure in the trial of
Sir Roger Casement, who will in due
course of time be charged under the
ordinary law with the crime of high
treason.
Sir Roger was arrested in Ireland
before the proclamation of martini
law there, and although he is at
present held under, the defense of the
realm act, the charges under that
statute would relate only to matters
in the United Kingdom and would not
embrace his conduct in Germany, of
which a public investigation is con
sidered to be highly desirable.
Important evidence is now being
collected in the case of Sir Roger and
proceedings will begin shortly, the
first step being a charge before a po
lice magistrate.
the employers, and two commissioners
mi conciliation from the department of
labor at Washington it was announced
tonight that progress had been mado
toward a settlement of the differences
which have resulted virtually in ty
ing up shipping in New York harbor
and adjacent waters through a lack of
tug boats and lighters to move freight.
Three companies it was said granted
the demands of the strikers. Another
j meeting will le held tomorrow when
a settlement could be reached.
Developments on the cloakmaker's
strike affecting approximately 6S.00O
workers also were encouraging. At the
headquarters of the union, it was saijj
many of the manufacturers had mado
overtures, and that a committee would
meet tomorrow to consider the ques
tion. No disorders were re ported in
Manhattan during the day but there
were two arrests in Brooklyn.
A strike of 600 employes of the Men
gel Paper Box Company at Jersey City
X. J., was announced today.
