abww
&l$!rW'
V' ,' ". ;
far -;
IJteajetttgtcm me
HOME
EDITION
WEATHER FORECAST:
Fair Tonight
(Full Report on Pago Two.)
wpmt$
't
NtJMBEn8801.
WASHINGTON, FRIDAY EVENING, MAY 5, 1016.
PBICE ONE CENT.
GERMANY MAKES CONCESSIONS;
NO IMMEDIATE BREAK IS FEARED
4 MORE IRISH
LEADERS SHOT
18
SENTENCED
llil
FROM U. S. LIBRARY
ONPUTNAM'SORDER
De.ath Penalty of Fifteen Com
muted to ton Years' Impris
onmentOthers on Trial.
SULLIVAN'S STATUS SOUGHT
Aotion Follows Two Reports on
, Investigation Into Friction in
Copyright Division.
IS EFFECTIVE ON MAY 17
DUBLIN, May 5. Four more
Irish leaders participating in last
week's rebellion have been con
victed and shot, it is officially an
nounced. They were Joseph Plunkett, one
of the men who signed the procla
mation establishing an Irish repub
lic; Edward Daly, Michael O'Harv
nahan, and William Pearsc.
Fifteen other rebels were sent
enced to death, but the sentences,
were commuted in each case to ten
years' imprisonment.
One other rebel was sentenced
tp eight years, and two others to
ten years' imprisonment. Further
trials are" proceeding.
SEVEN PAY PENALTY.
Seven rebel leaders havo now paid
the' death penalty for tho part they
played in the rebellion. Dcaldes Plunk
ett. three other of the seven signers of
the Republican proclamation Poter
Poarse, president of the republic;
Thomas J. Clarke. In whose tobacco
hop tho plans were laid, and Thomaa
McDonagh have been executcJ.
James Connolly, another signer, who
commanded the "Irish army," Ilea In
prison severely wounded.
ine fifteen whoso death sentences
were commuted to ten years wero
Thomas Walsh. Flnlan Lynch, Thomas
Sevan, John Williams, J. J. Reld, Mi
chael Mervln, Dennis O'Callaghan, Pat
rick 8weoney. Patrick McNestry, Wil
liam Tobln, Petor Clanoy. Ocoreo Irvln,
James McCllnn. J. J. Walsh, and John
Doherty.
Francis Fahey and Richard Davis
were sentenced to ten years each, and
John McGarry to eight years' imprlsun
ment. British Foreign Office
Aids in Sullivan Probe
LONDON, May 5. The foreign office
at the request of American Ambassador
Face, today wired to Dublin ror in
formation concerning the arrest of
James M. Sullivan, former United States
Minister to Santo Domingo, In connec
tion with the Dublin rebellion.
Sullivan la now understood to be In
an English prison.
It Is reported that a relative of Sulli
van In Dublin was closely affiliated with
the Sinn Fein movement.
U. S. Action in Sullivan
Case Awaits Reports
The State Department, through Am
bassador Page, has made inquiries or
the British government to learn the
facta In the case of James M. Sullivan,
former United States minister to Santo
Domingo,, who is under arrest In London
in connection with the Dublin riots.
Further action by the State Depart
ment probably will be delayed until the
result of Inquiries already made by
Ambassador Page la known. Friends of
Sullivan In New York and Washington
are preparing to exert every qffort to
obtain hie release.
Sullivan has been In the limelight
ever tlnrf he was plckod by Secretary
Bryan for the post of minister to Santo
Domlrgo. after Mr. Bryan had made In
oulrles to determine whether there
wore any positions open In Santo Do
mingo for "deserving Democrats.
Conflict arose between Minister Sul
livan and Receiver General Vlck as a
result of which Vlck resigned his post
as collector of customs. Charges were
filed later against Sullivan which were
mado thf result of a Senate Investiga
tion. Sullivan then resigned under fire.
Sullivan went to Ireland last June.
Friends Intervening with the State
Department In his behalf are confident
hn had nr. connection with tho Dublin
revolt. They base their request that
the United States Intervene In Sulli
van's behalf on his American cltlien
shlp. and not on his past official con
rect ons.
Hearing on Klingle
Ford Park Is Given
Ar Informl hearlns on the Kllr.nlo
Ford valley b'll, providing for a pink
fif flftmn acri'i" In tr-at region, wan
jijvrn In the enato District Coihn-lt-tee
todav.
Four nf the commltto uvro present
Senator-- Newlands and Brady nnd
several nf the residents In that .vi
cinity, supported ihe bill.
Full Text of Germany's Latest
Note on UBoat Warfare
BERLIN (via wireless to Sayville, L. I.) , May 5. The text of the German
reply to President Wilson's submarining demands as transmitted to Ambassador
Gerard last night by Foreign Secretary von Jagow, follows:
The undersigned, on behalf of the imperial
German government, has the honor to present
to his excellency, the ambassador of the United
Ernest Rruncken, for seven years
assistant register of the Copyright Di
vision of the Library of Congress, waa
dismissed from the service today.
The order dismissing' Brunckcn fol
lowed reports to Librarian Putnam of
an Investigation Into conditions exist
ing in the copyright division, alleged
to be due to friction between Bruncken
and employes of the division.
Register 8olberg,made two reports to
Librarian Putnam on his Investigation.
Upon receiving the second report to
day Librarian Putnam Issued the fol
lowing order:
"To th0 AcUnar Chief Clork:
"Ernest Bruncken Is discontinued from
his office as assistant register of copy-
ngnts, and from the library service.
"This order is effective Immediately,
with tho usual leave allowance.
"You will communicate it to Mr.
HruncKcn nnd to the register."
Acting Chief Clerk Roberta said Mr.
Bruncken had twelve days' leave com
ing to him and that on May 17 the
assistant register would leave the li
brary service permanently.
Asked It Bruncken would be trans
ferred to sbmo other division of the
Library. Assistant Chief Clerk Roberts
replied in tho negative, saying that the
order discontinued Bruncken fromail
brunette or the Library service.
Some 'days ago. The Times, In an
nouncing that Librarian Putnam had
ordered art investigation of conditions in
the copyright division, told how a re
porter hud asked Bruncken If ho hall
made certain statements reflecting upon
tho United States and President Wilson.
Bruncken's answer always was "none of
your business." Later the same ques
tions were asked Bruncken In the pres
ence of Librarian Putnam. Bruncken
refused to answer them.
Librarian Putnam, In announcing his
Bruncken decision today, gave out the
roMowlnr statement:
"Mr. rvuncken declares the charges
were 'no business- or mo newspapers.
and refused even a donlal through
them, no would, therefore, have no
Interest In the publication nf a finding
favorable to him; and the library haa
no present interest in the publication
or tho rest."
States, Mr. James W. Gerard, the following re
ply to the note of April 20 regarding the con
duct of German submarine warfare.
The' German government handed over to
the proper naval authorities for further investi
gation evidence concerning the Sussex as com
municated by the Government of the United
States.
Judging by the results the investigation
hitherto yielded, the German government is
alive to the possibility that the ship mentioned
in the note of April 10 as torpedoed by a Ger
man submarine is actually identical with the
Sussex.
The German government begs to reserve
further communications on the matter until cer
tain points are ascertained which are of decisive
importance for establishing the facts of the case.
Should it turn out that the commander was
wrong in assuming the vessel to be a man-of-war,
the German government will not fail to
draw the consequences resulting therefrom.
In connection with the case of the Sussex,
the Government of the United made a series of
statements, the 'gist of which is the. assertion
ythat the incident is to be considered but one
instance for evidently should read "of" a
deliberate method of indiscriminate destruction
of vessels of all sorts, nationalities, and destina
tions by German submarine commanders. Tho
German government must emphatically repudi
ate the assertion.
The German government, however, thinks it
of little avail to enter into the details in the
present stage of affairs, more particularly as
the Government of the United States omitted
to substantiate the assertion by reference to con
crete facts.
The German government will only state
that it has imposed far-reaching restraints upon
the use of the submarine weapon solely in con
sideration of neutrals' interests in spite of the
fact that these restrictions necessarily were of
advantage to Germany's enemies. No such con
sideration has ever been shown neutrals by
Great Britain and her allies. '
German submarine forces have had, in fact,
orders to conduct submarine warfare in ac
cordance with the general principles of visit,
search, and destruction of merchant vessels
recognized by international law, the sole excep
tion being the conduct of warfare agair.sf enemy
trade carried on enemy freight ships e.'.co'int
ered in the war, zone surrounding Great Britain.
With regard to these no assurances ever har'
been given to the Government of the United
- States..- .,.--- '
No such assurance was contained in the
declaration of February 8, 1016.
The German government cannot admit any
(Continued on Pago Eight.)
FRESH INSTRUCTIONS
GIVEN COMMANDERS
OF RAISER'S U-BOATS
Officials Divided in Opinion Over Concluding
Proviso That U. S. Will Force Great
Britain to Abandon Her "Starvation
Blockade" Cabinet in Session.
Asks New Court
Procedure Here
Chief Justice Covington and
Lawyers Argue for Bill for
Uniform Rules.
A large delegation representing the
bar of tho District of Columbia ap
peared beforu the House Committee on
Judiciary today In support of tho Webb
bill for a simplification nf Judicial pro
cedure In tho locnl courts.
The delegation was headed by Chief
Justice Ccrington. who assisted In
drawing the measure which hns the
support of the t-lstrlct Par Association.
lie told the committee the bill was
not drawn hastily nnd that so far as
he knew there wns no serious crltlcUm
of the mcaturc among lawyer of the
Pittrlct. members nf the bar an.l the
District Supreme Court, ho said, had
worked together on tho bill.
One of the proposed chances would
permit tho court to prescribe uniform
I rules nf practice and pleading. At
present. It was said It Is not Infre-
quentlv found tliut different ludges
havo different modes for practice.
It 1h believed the Judiciary Commit
tee will report tho bill.
Hunt for Mad Dog
That Bit Two Boys
Search for a mad dog which bit two
boys and another dog in Bowen road,
near tho District line, early today, la
being conducted by the police of the
Eloventh precinct, aided by residents
of the community.
The do if, slightly larger than a fox
terrier, black with yellow spots, came
from across the District line, In Mary
land shortly after 8 o'clock. The ani
mal attacked nnd hit Roland Middle
ton, sixteen years old, living at Brad
bury, Md. It then attacked Morris
Harris, colored, seven years old, of
Garfield, D. C, biting him on the left
forenrm. The nnlmnl then mado its'
way in Bowen rond and Is known to
have bitten another dog. owned t,y
Watson Shipley, nf the Bowen road.
De Castellane Loses
New Appeal to Vatican
KUME, May 5. The validity of the
marriage or Count Bonl de Castellane
to Anna Gould, now Duchess Talley
rand, was confirmed In a decision by
the commission of Cardinals appointed
to consider tho claim of the count for
annulment of his marriage.
Count dn Castcllano has appealed sev
eral times to tho Vatican for a ruling
that his marriage was Invalid. His
last appeal, which has now been de
cided against him, was filed In Janu
ary of this year.
ALLIES DESTROY
TWO ZEPPELINS
One Brought Down Off Schles
wig Coast, Another Near
Camp at.Salonlki.
LONDON. May & A German Zeppelin
was destroyed by a British cruiser oft
Schleswlg yesterday, the admiralty an
nounces. SALONIKI, May 5. A German Zeppe
lin, bent on a raid on the Anglo-French
camps, waa destroyed this morning.
The destruction of these two Zeppelins
within twenty-four hours makes four
teen whose destruction has been offi
cially announced since the outbreak of
the war. .. . ,.. .
Two days ago me was was wreencu uu
the southwestern coast of Norway while
returning from an air raid on southeast
ern bcotland. and totally destroyed.
The last Zeppelin destrdyed previous
to this occurrence was the L-1B, which
was snot down Aiarcn 10, on no nioum
of the Thames, after a raid on London.
Austrians in Sea and
Air Attack' on Italy
BEIU.IN, May 5. Austrian torpedo
boats engaged in a clash with an
Italian squadron In tho Adriatic on
Wednesday while an Austrian air
squadron was bombardlw? the Italian
city of navenna, it is officially an
nounced. .
in nr.n.iHav nflnrnoon. an AU8-
i.n nnvfli alp aouadron bombarded
with good effect the sulphur factory
and barracks at navenna." said the
official statement. "Fires were ob
served at the sulphur factory and In
T . ii. .s U a I lend H Tu'ft
anti-aircraft batteries shelled the
aeroplanes heavily, but they returned
unharmed. .. ,
"At the same time a reconnolterlng
torpedo boat squadron southeast of
the mouth of the Po met four enemy
destroyers. A combat ensued at a
great distance without effect since
the enemy's superior speed did not
allow a close approach. Several aero
planes Joined the combat and fire w th
machine guns at the enemy's ships."
Germans Take Trenches
In Hill 304 Attacks
PAIU8, May 6. German troops
nado a violent attack last night
against French poBltlons north of
Hill UN, the keystone of ,tho Frunch
defense northwest of Verdun, the at
tack being preceded by violent artil
lery firlnK.
Tlif Germans enterud French ud
vancort tranches at a few polntn, the
war ofilco announced, but o!sew,hra
were roruld. . ,
Kurt of the Mouse nnd In the
Voevrc Intermittent bombardment
occurred. South of tho Somme a Ger
man Attack failed.
Game Called Off
PHILADELPHIA, May 5.
Rain last night and today
caused Manager Mack to
postpone today's game with,
the Griffmcn. It will be
played on the next visit of
the Washington team to this
city in June.
LEGISLATIVE BODIES
CALLED A MENACE
Head of L & N. Says in Actidn
They Are "a Calamity."
Hints at "Dirty Work."
SCOHANDOBREGQN
PLANTORATIFYPAG
T
Signatures to Bind Agreement
Expected by Night Carran-
za and Wilson Approve.
Kaiser Wilhelm's answer to President Wilson's de
mand for an abandonment of the present methods of sub
marine warfare was received here today in unofficial form.
The press copy of the note was laid before the Cabinet
at 1 1 o'clock. At a late hour the official text had not yet
begun to reach the State Department. Official comment
was withheld pending its receipt.
. All Washington is divided into two camps over the
meaning and probable result of the communication.
The prevailing opinion, expressed privately among
officials; is tjiat while -the note is bolstered about with a
mass-of-verbiage calculated to soften its effect on the people
of Germany, it goes sufficiently far in meeting the demands
of the United States as to remove the possibility of any im
mediate break in diplomatic relations.
NEW INSTRUCTIONS TO COMMANDERS.
Germany announces that she has issued the following
new instructions to her submarine commanders:
In accordance with the general principles of
visit and search and the destruction of merchant
vessels recognized by international law such
vessels, both within and without the area declared
a naval war zone, shall not be sunk without warn
ing and without saving human lives unless the
ship attempts to escape or offer resistance.
KL PASO. Tex., May 6. War Min
ister Obregon and General Hcott, In
a confidential meeting today, wero ex
pected formally to ratify the El Paso
On its face these new instructions appear to many of
ficials to comply with the first part of the American demand
that Germany "shall declare and effect" an abandonment
agreement governing the future of the'0f tne present methods of submarine warfare.
American expedition in Mexico. ,
Whether Germany has "effected" an abandonment
is a question which only the future can determine.
Of some concern here is the fact that on the heels of
"All legislative bodies are a menace:
In action a calamity" observed Milton
H. Smith, president of the Louisville
and Nashville railroad, testifying today
In .an Interstate Commerce Commission
hearing Into the road's practices.
"Plutocrats." he continued, "are n ne
cessity. From Congress down wo must
do what we can to conciliate and pla
cate legislative bodies. It is the curse
of our form of government, to many
laws. Tho American people aro the
greatest lawmakers and Ian breakers In
the world.
"Hetty Green, If she were talking to
you, would say she had struggled all
her life to prevent people getting her
property away from her. They have
not cot It: I know her.
"A man with ambition to be United
States Senator, or uovernor, or rresi
dent, starts something against prop
erty. It la a struggle always between
you and legislative bodies. The only
reason the railroads ever enter the dirty
work Is to keep themselves from con
fiscation." Smith said the L. & N. had helped
to finance State governments In the.
South. One loan made "Indirectly
through the First National Bank of
Birmingham, was solicited, ho said, by
W. p. G. Harding, then bank president
and now member or the hcaerai Re
serve board. This was to buy up. State
warrants for which the State, ho said,
Imri tin funds.
A hint of revealing what Smith
termed "a dirty scramble for ofilco"
brouuht Senator Lea of Tennessee,
comnlalnant against tho road, to his
feet. Attorneys argued and the state
ment which Smith had started to read
was Kept out ror mo lime.
Silver Dollar Saves Life.
SEATTLE, Wash.. May 5. Thomas
Dunbar, a realty agent, attributes to
a sliver dollar the saving of his life
when Conrad Leo fired point-blank at
his breast. Dunbar was xtuuned by
the blow of the bullet itt'lktiu the
silver la a vest pocket.
Though slight modifications In the
compact wero made by both President
Wilson and General Carranza, before
they stamped it with their approval,
It waa not believed to alter the plan In
Its essential points, and tho two gen-
Apnln fltillA nstsit ma ? U a ..t. u -.
Arrangements for the meeting nrniUViic nntinntifflm(int nf nur 5nc.tnirtinnc. PMVPtl instructions
ceeded simultaneously with getaway u "
ph?ou Bnd'a'JeSat Funston hoped to which appear to require German submarine commanders in
fee car waiTwBd'nrt.0"''! compliance with American demands to restrict their opera-
away io aiexico uuy.
PHrt nf the nsreement. If not inn en
tire text, .vill be mnde public n soon as
It haa ben signed. It wns announced.
ijincrm runsion loaar waB nomine un r. . . . . , .. ....
General Pershing's request for addi- Hntain to abandon ner starvation oiocKaae
tions to "cruiser warfare" Gemany at once expresses the
hope that President Wilson will undertake to force Great
tlonal motor supply
material penning u:
trucks and other,
lie sign ng of tho
agreement. If the document becomes
nw'pmSnwiii'beneeded.' th'ito succeed in this effort would leave the German govern-
She adds that a failure on the part of the United States
Wisconsin Avenue
Widening Delayed
ment "facing a new situation, in which it must reserve to
itself complete liberty of decision."
NOT CONSIDERED A CONDITION.
It is not. however, the prevailing opinion that this is a
Congested Court Docket Will De- condition attached to the declaration of an abandonment of
lay Condemnation Proceed- , Gfir it is ponted out merely fe
ings Until October Term. r ,....,, , n r t mi u i
condemnation proceedings to widen confident that the "consequences" of her action will be to
Dutlcr'luprir cZnYuy'n, g abUt SUCh effrtS 0I1 tHe P f Ullited StateS'
havo been postponed untu the 6eKin- not that she makes it a "condition" of her declaration.
nlng of the October term of court. i" .,,. , , it.
mat mere win oe a runner exenange or notes is uie
Chief Justice
continued
Covington
the hearinsr because or the contrasted
condition of the dockett of his court.
The Dlatrlct Commissioners Institut
ed proceedings to widen Wisconsin
avenue to 1U0 feet from Garfield street
to the District line.
view generally held. It is believed that the American Gov
ernment, replying to today's communication, will express
satisfaction that Germany has declared by new instructions
URGES NEW BRIDGE 'to submarine commanders an abandonment of the present
FOR INDIAN HEAD methods of submarine warfare; that this country will look
congressman Sydney e. Mudd. ajto the future to prove the effectiveness of the new orders;
member of tho House Committee on j , ,. , , 0 .. Hnii.j ctr. ., naL iU -
Naval Affairs, today urged his col- 'III Ulill, Ul tuuix, mc uimcu oiaiw tmuiui .ittcpi uic v.uu-
ir nalaTappSon9 b.u autho" 'cessions upon any condition that she take certain action with
respect to Germany's enemies.
Of striking significance to officials here is the injection
(Continued on Page Eight.).
tlnn for a root-passenger drawbridge
of modern type across the Mattawoman
creek for the exclusive use of Gov
ernment employes, to connect the naval
proving grounds at Indian Head with
the opposite shore near Marnury.
-.
t
' ' 51
. tj ..',.i-Lit.
" , w
AiFKsiL'.A'i
J:Sti- CfdS&2b;.
vAitr
LA-Jtl.
