I
CITY
EDITION
AJLB1U QUEK.QUE MORNING JOURNAL.
THinTY-SKVENTil VEAK.
VOL. CL. No. S3.
CITY
EDITION
ALBUQUERQUE, NEW MEXICO, FRIDAY, MAY 5,1916,
PATRIOTISM
LLOYD-GEORGE
MAKES APPEAL
10
OF THE ENGLISH
Asserts Great Britain Is Only
Allied Nation Not Doing Her
Part in Prosecution of Eii
ropean War.
THE WEATHER
COUNTRY FINANCIALLY
CAN OUTLAST GERMANY
Says Workingmen Realize
That Their Future Is at
Stake and
Call of King,
Respond to
Kf KOKNIH iOUMlAl SMCIAl UMtO WIM1
London, May 4 (11:16 p. m.) The
house of commons tonight passed, the
second reading of the military ser
vice bill for Immediate general mill
tarv compulsion. A motion by Rich
urd" 1). Holt, radical, to reject the bill,
was prevlounly defeated. 82S to ?!.
The debnto on .the bill developed no
Important new points. David Lloyd-
George, the minister of munitions, de
THK Wi:.TIUMt FOltlX.iST.
Denver, May 4. New Mexico: Frl
day and Saturday fair; not much
change In temperature.
LOCAL WKATUERREronT.
For twenty-four houra, ending tt
P. m. yesterday.
Mexlmum temperature, 81 degree:
minimum, 32 degrees; range, 49 de
grees; temperature at p. m.. 0 de
grees; west wind; clear.
' TS n.XK CTiKARINOa.
Yesterdar
$58,429.71.
CONFEREES NOT
ABLE 10 AGREE
PROVISIONS
should triumph, humanity could not
endure long under that yoke."
ALLEGED CONSPIRACY
TO GAIN AN ESTATE
tT UOSNIN JOUHL (PtOAl. LI AM WIM)
Chicago, May 4. The nuns of Mis.
ertcordla hospital, Ottawa, Ont.. mado
statements today to Assistant State's
Attorney Ramsey concerning the clr
ctinistance under which Mrs. Annie
iHMlle Ledgerwoqd Matters la said to
have gained possession of a girl she
claimed was her daughter. Mrs. Mat
ters, with Charles T. Mellon and Har
ry Edwards, are on trial charged with
conspiracy to foist a spurious heir on
the estate of Fred Matters.
According to Mr. Ranssey, who re
fused to give the names'of the nuns,
the mother superior told htm Mrs.
Matters came to the hosidtat ami nM
she had lost her husband and that she
wanted to adopt a boy and raise It
ner Own. She took n. fanrv tn a
child said to tie the daughter of Jessie
Bryan, according to the attorney's In
formation, and was permitted to take
It away. The mother superior told
Mr. Ramsey, ho said, that Mrs. Mat
ters informed her her husband's
father was wealthy and would believe
the child was her own.
OF ARMY BILL
House Members Reject Volun
teer Idea and Nitrate Plant
Has Opposition of Ail Re-
publicans,
NATIONAL GUARD GETS
IN ITS DEADLY WORK
President and Congress May
Again Come Into Serious
Conflict Over Policy to Be
Adopted,
Summary or War
News of Yesterday
The curtain of firo of the French
has sot at naught another Gorman
attack launched against the trenches
which the French recently captured
at Lc Morte Homme. This engage
ment, which Is characterised by furls
an a small on, nns been the only
fighting -by Infantry on the French
ami Belgian fronts. A very violent
bombardment is reported In the re
gion of hiU 304, northwest of Ver
dun. The Germane are still throwing
shell In great numbers against lk
skull bridgehead of the Russians on
the eastern front. There nlo has
been a heavy artillery duel between
the Germans And the Russians in the
region south Krovo,
The usual bombardments and to-
latod Infantry attacks are In prog
ress on the Auetro-italian front.
The Turks started two offensive
movements against the Russians, one
In the region of Baiburt and the oth
er near Krzingun. Doth were ' re
pulsed, according to Petrograd. The
German General Llman von tenders
Is superintending the concentration
of Turkish troop In north Smyrna
and defense measures for Turkey's
Asiatic const.
nisrail that he would rather be driven ' '
out of the liberal party and even out; RRA7II PAI I S 1 1 PON
f nuhllr lifn than to have ution his i w ,,rw-G- VHLLO Ul UI1
Z.J&Zl I GERMANY TO EXPLAIN
IMS IUC liruw""" " ....... '....
constitute the difference between de
feat and victory,
sir John Simon, former home sec
retary, In opposing the bill, reiterated I government has notified the German
that it was not alone a question for JeKatwn t.iat ,l i,an taut-reel an urgent
mr uoMik jouthai. seictAt mam wist)
Washington, May 4. Conferees on
the army reorganization bill Into to
day disagreed on Important features
of the meas6re and adjourned until
matt'Ts In disagreement can be taken
up in the house. The rocks on which
the committee broke were the federal
3 LEADERS EXECUTED
IN DUBLIN CASTLE
! UDIIH JOUSNak riciai LUIIO WISH
London, May 5 (2:25 it. m.) The
execution of Patrick It, Pearse, Thorn
a MaeDonagh and Thomas J. Clark,
leaders of the rebellion took place M
Dublin Castle, according to dispatches
from Belfast.
James Connolly, who was wounded,
cannot yet t-ji placed on trial. .
. The other three signatories to tho I
liroc larriillirin tt thn Irlul. .... 1,1 l..u
volunteer army and the $15,000,000 I .an MacDlarmad, Harmon Ceannt
government nitrate plant amendments i Rr,d ..Toseoh Plunkott fell during th
WASHING
10
IS
SATISFIED WITH
N OF
SCOTT
PROPOSITID
GENERAL
Chief of Staff Is Notified by
Secretary Baker That Plan
Outlined Is Agreeable to Administration,
CARRANZA'S FORMAL
ASSENT NECESSARY
Pershing's Forces Are to Re
main in Northern Mexico as
Buffer Between Border and
Raids by Bandits,
border to complete their task hs soon
as word comes from President Wil
son in Hi the Mexk'Hti first chief that
they are satisfied With the plan of ao
tlon. No action toward hastening expor
tation of arms and nmmunttlon, now
at tho border attaining permits to
cross Into Mexico, was taken today at
the state or treasury departments.
This subject s expected to bo brought
up for consideration by General Car
rsnza'a diplomatic representative, Kli
seo Arredondo, as soon as the 101 Tuso
agreement has been ratified.
Pending the demonstration by the
Carranjia forces of their Intention and
power to clear tho whole border re
gion of brlgumls. It Is understood that
no movement toward withdrawing any
of the troops now on tho border will
be made.
With the expedition well established
In Mexico, ns , buffer against ban
dit raids on border towns and ranches
under local guard as well It la be
lieved that there ran be no recur,
rence of border raids, even if the Car.
ranna troops are not ante tinmedi
alcly to capture or kill Villa and his
followers. No chances wttl be taRon,
however, and the double guard will
ho maintained until definite Informa
tion Is available to show that tho
bandit menace Is at an end.
nAi,
CX)M'KltKXf i:
KAHI.Y THIS MORNIVG
Is uoRNiua joumtAk. imoul kitsra wiaii,
Rio Janeiro, May 4. The Brazilian
adopted by the senate
Notwithstanding the disagreement,
Senator Chamberlain, chairman of tho
senate conferees, said tonight he had
hopes that a good bill eventually
would be worked out.
Some I'lturresH Made.
t'p to the time of the break, which
hod been forecast, the conferees had
been making good progress on rcgu-
lar army reorganization and reserve
the military to decWe. Threw,o " "'t" ,, 1 " They had tentatively agreed
eviaence, ne saiu, inui ino uiii oiuu j . --
really add to Great Britain's national
force and strength. It would create
a maximum amount of hardship with
minimum results. .
IJojd-Goorgc's Argument.
Speaking on a motion to reject the
military service bill, . David Lloyd
George, minister ef munitions, said in
the house of commons today that he
would rather be driven out of the
liberal party, even out of political life
altogether, - than have upon his con
science the responsibility of refusing
the demands of the military authori
ties for men which might make all
the difference between defeat and vie
.toryi --.
Will Outstay (iemmny.
Those who asserted that If the war
lasted until 1917, the nation could not
"stay the course," were both inaccur
ate and Injudicious. He had consulted
Hie lending financiers of the country,
and they had not the least hesitancy
In affirming that, however long the
war lusted, it would outstay anything j
.j.-iiiiuuy couiu uo, uui in any case u
was wise to apply its full power forth
with. Mr. Lloyd-George argued that until
Kusnla had completed h"r equipment
to be. able to act with certai
the defense of Its neutral rights
ntv forlon H "landing army in time of peace,
or i ou.ooy men, 4U,ouo more than the
KITCHENER PAYS ,
HIGH TRIBUTE
TO T01SHEND
Secretary for War -Blames
Weather and Smallness of
Force for Disaster to British
Arms on Tigris,
holism bill carried, and an elastic or
ganization scheme contained in thu
.senate bill which would provide for
expansion in time of war or threat
tiled war to 220,000 men. They also
agreed to the house bill reorganiza
tion plan for the national guard which
would provide for federalization of
thi reserve forco und its expansion
to approximately 40u,000 men.
Voluiitm-r Plan Doomed.
Early in, the day Representative
Hay, chairman of the house confer
ees, discussed the volunteer army
reserve section of the senate bill with
President Wilson. The president was
understood to favor It, although no
statement was made regarding the
conference. Representative Hay is siad
to have told the president that tho
house would not accept tho volunteer
force.
Nutlkmal Guard Jealous.
Champions of the national guard
feared that tho proposed new force
would operate to the disadvantage of
the guard, and there was strong oppo
sition to the plan In both house and
senate. Jn the senate tho volunteer
fighting.
r SCOTT'S AGUKEMKXT i!rBl ' ',),r el.,,
ference with General
WushliiRton. May 4. Presi
dent Wilson announced tonight
that the tentative agreement be
tween (lenevnl Scott and 'General
Obregon covering Uie future op.
erntlons of tile American Mexl-
Kl Paso, Tex., May 4. The third
and final conference of Generals
Seoit and Obregon, at which the com
plete details of the agreement for mll
Itsry co-operation In the hunt of VII
llstas will he settled, probably will be
held tomorrow morning at the immi
gration station located at the Ameri
can end of tho International bridge.
This was announced tonight after
the reply of Secretary llaker to Oen-
the last con
obreeon was
received.
The news that President Wilson
.jhad found the tentative agreement, sc.
t , crpiuiiie was received with sattsiue
j,;tinii ,y .Mexican officials here
lmilf by Carrier or Mali, 6o
Month. Hlngl Copied, 6
GERMAN REPLY
DOES NOT MEET
DEMANDS MADE
BY WASHINGTON
Press Dispatches Indicate That
Berlin Holds to Right . to
Sink Merchant Vessels When
Armed, ;
PRESIDENT WILSON
FIRM IN POSITION
If Note Is as Reported Diplo
matic Relations Are Likely
to Bo Broken Off With Lit
tle Ceremony, '
IS MOMNIMS J4USNAI SMOIAI, LtB WISSI
Washington, May 4. Germany'a
reply (a the demand of the United
States for Immediate abandonment of
th present methods of submarine
warfare, delivered to Ambassador
Gerard today, was awaited by offic
ials of the Washington government
,t; tonight with expectant tension. They
twiiiiitir aov oeiinue ineA or
RAILROAD
HEADS
was Imlloiici thai ii..n.l nhri, wnnont any
ran military forces in Mexico . " t,!"u " M "". conreronce
provides "a basis of co-operation
which promised to prevent mis
l understanding and strengthen
! 111. 4 el-illul r. l.lli,,,,.. ,.t II. o In ,
, reouhlics" a reported that before long the cone of
, I;a formal approval of thy agreement bri;f mfo from A
2 Jjby the Mexican government and that f:11 JJ,("','f
is I i matters would soon be adjusted. !f, r' had 1rr,t,ll the Impr
v Li'rJ' rter.,on,Kh,,, ws
CHARGED
WITH
Fnni inn i rrrr n Kfaphed to General soon at i: ini1 v , u
llll LU I rTTrDP; ,J""" lat" today b -'Ty ,ora"1 , h,,,1,11,Utt 1
UULIUll LL I I LIU lw to exchango formal accept- I'ershlng s forces.
anoes with General Obregon as
soon as the latter has obtained
Southern, : and Louisville &
Nashville Presidents Said to
Have Agreed Upon Division!
of the South,
(T MONtt JOUSNAI, MUIIL LOIU Wl
Washington, May .4.t:orrespond
ence purporting to have passed be-
tho approval of General Carran
r.o. and officials here are confi-
dent that It will be tomorrow or
Saturday.
President Wilson Issued this
statement: .
"1 have examined, . with the
secretary of war, the. report
made by General Hugh L. Heott
of the conference between him
and General Obregon, secretary
of vrur of the republic of Mexico.
"The report Includes a touts.
tlve agreement covering the fu-
FARM LOAN BILL
(Y XOSSIN JOURNAL IMCKL ItAIUD Will)
London, May 4 (4:15 p. m.) In iforoe won hy a majority of only two
so as to employ her immense reserves the house of lords today teia Atar-i votes
of men, It was essential that Prance shal Earl Kitchener, the secretary for
and Great Britain put every available ' war, warmly eulogised Ueneral Town
mau in the field. Ishend and the defenders of Kut-el-
Had News for Genua iw. :Amara, and read General Townshend'g
Germany, ho said, was well aware
of the danger of this country failing
to take the utmost share It possibly
Loma 01 inia year s burdens immcdl
last dispatches, which arc as follows:
"We are pleased to know that we
have done our duty and recognise that
our situation is one of the fortunes of
ately. and he ventured to say that thai war. We thank you, General Gor
passage of this bill would In Itself be j range, (commander of lirltish relief
nhout the worst news that tho (lor- army), and all ranks of the Tigris
man general staff could read. force for the great efforts you have
England Alone? Derelict. I mode to save us."
Mr. Lloyd-George, pointing out that Irrtminent starvation compelled the
H the entente allies were defending surrendef of Kut-el-Amara, added
their countries by compulsory ser-ILord Kitchener, and adverse elements
vice, argued that if Great Britain had i Plone denied, success to the relief
summoned men to her colors through-1 force,
out the empire in the same propor
tion as France there would have been
twice as many men In service. He ap
preciated fully Great Britain's respon
sibilities in financing the allies "and
in maintaining trade, as well as the
er.vthlng into account, Great Britain
had still a substantial margin of avail,
able men, and he wanted both Ger
many and the entente allies to know
'lat if It would constitute the differ,
"ice between victory and submission,
tnis country would summon the whole
oi that margin to the colors to defend
llBl'lf.
faith m Woi kincnien.
the minister ridiculed the idea that
"e conscription Involved burdening
ine working classes and protested
gainst the notion that the working
LTV to Ve reaarded as a sort
of doubtful neutrals.
,4,Ja ell'm,ntat virtues," he de
Z ,i "know n cl68. nd patriot
wn Is on., of the greutet of them."
"eplymg to thP opponents of the
suit had Pfdtcted that the re
nifi . 11,0 mt-asure would be Uisig
" rniant, he could tell the house that
?' battle of Ypres one division of
' 'Bii troons to relieve the exhausted
eluL? ",ither sid w'0ld have con
"Hely decided the Issue of tho bat-
lioUr, Worklni classes," aid Mr.
Jd-f.eorgo, "know that, in the
"- for Hlmy. thev wfl.il los
Hepresentatlve Hay in his talk with
the president also discussed the ni
trnto plant feature and the president
insisted that It should be left In the
bill.
Against Nitrate Mant.
If the president continues to Insist
on tho nitrate plant provision, it was
declared, another clash between the
executive and the house will ensue.
Republicans oro standing solidly
against the nitrate provision, insisting
that it Is being urged by a "water
power" lobby. Many democrats also
oppose It.
UNION OF METHODISTS
HOPED FOR BY BISHOP
Lord Kitchener said he was glad of
the opportunity to pnv tribute to Gen
eral Townsend and his troops, "whose
dogged determination and splendid
courage had earned for them so hon
orable ft record."
After a series of brilliantly fought
engagements, continued Lord Kitchen
er, Oeneral Townshend decided to hold
ilu ult-aleilcnllv imuortant DOSiliOn at
Kut-el-Amara, and it sltouid not neiLransion lor mo commission on leu
forgotten that his dispositions for theleratton. to which the conference hod
defene of the place were ho excellent j referred the preliminary negotiations,
that the Turks, notwithstanding their The commission endorsed the pro-
ernmeiit of Mexico, It would not
lie proper for ine to permit its
i publication until that govern-
ment has had opportunity to e-
amine and consider its provls-
Ions. The full text of the pro-
posed agreement will be given
out Immediately on its accept-
once by both governments, lit
general, 1 may say that it pro-
vide tt basis of co-operation
which promises to prevent mis-
understanding and strengthens
the cordial relations of tho two
republics."
Y HOtKINil JOUSNAl CIL !. Wlltl
fiuratoga Springs, K. May 4.
dinnte quadrennial conferences, one
union of the Methodist (episcopal
churches in America, was recom
mended In a report submitted to the
general conference today by Bishop
numerical superiority, were not aiue
tn nenetrate his Hues. The house
would not fall to resliw, the war min
ister believed, how tense was the
strain upon those troops."
WOMEN NOT TO NAME
PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE
convention here June 5-7, does j by action of the conference today was
,nt?m""?e tho nomination of a submitted to a special committee, with
pSelddentlul candidate. . I In ructions to report w I. Jn ten
1ST OIWN JOUHNM. tmciM. lf D WISH
Chicago. May 4. The woman a j
party
not conte
mr.mtnn (ltMMlll
V - ..I l
statements that a woman woum
nominated have been credited to Miss
Alice Paul, chairman of the l.ongtes
sional union, but Miss Paul said t
dav that the wrong interpretation had
hee nut on her words.
"We have not yet reached the stage
where it would bo wise to put for-
It.ir uib
posal to unite the branches of the dc
nomination, and requestod the ap
pointment of a commission author
ized to conduct negotiations with the
Methodist Episcopal church south; the
Methodist Protestant church, una
other kindred Wesleyan bodies. This
commission would report, with rec
ommendations to the general confer
ence In l2(l.
The report embodied, without com
ment, a proposed plan of unity en
dorsed hy the southern church which,
day's Investigation of tho, Louisville &
Nashville's affulrs. ,
In the correspondence the writers
likened themselves to fortes! and
I'lzarro, conquerors of a new world
met to divide it, one agreeing to tako
North America and one Honth Amer
ica, neither to touch the isthmus and
unable to agree on I'atagonla.
President Kmlth of the Loiiisvlllo &
Nashville said he remembered no
such correspondence and character
ized it as "rot."
The correspondence was dated In
1S9C and resulted, Chief Counsel:
Folk of the Interstate commerce com
mission said, from n meeting between
Smith anrt Silencer at. Kennoau- fin.. on' jousw.k itmu l..io ,.)
October 19. l9 Th ft l,ter Washington, May 4, Notification
from Mr Kmlth tn Mr Biuoiour mb (that tho plan of ro-operntiv uctlon
Folk read into the record a follows: M" the Mexican border region mapped
"Dear sir- !'Hlt Bt the Kl Paso conference is oa
"Plorroi 'llow shull wc dlvldo the.1 H'ptablo to tho Washington govern.
new world ? ! went, was forwarded to General seott
"Cortex: I will take North America ! hi to today by Secretary Baker.
and you can have South America ex- l ending its formal acceptance by
cept und neither of ue will do any. General Curranxn. adniinlalratloti of.
thlmr to the Isthmus without notice fclals here declined to make publlo
o and co-operation of the other. I me text, or ttie agreement or discuss
"Plzarro: While ratiigonia. Is not I ' aewua in niiy way. tiierswusno
a very large part of the world, yetiuouut in ornciat circles, nowever,
i perhaps tt Is as much us I can tote." j that the plan would be ratified with-
Irlrato ami t onfldeittiiil. . in a rcw noura ai most ana inn ois
This letter was dated "on Penn-1 turblng situation on the border ami
sylvania railroad train No. 21, Febru-ihi northern Mexico bo diwposed of.
ary 22, 1 S6." and after this Intro- i Secretary llaker carried to tbe White
diictloii Mr. Kolk took up details of I House today General Kcotr long re
tbe railroad situation In the south. Port of his meetings with General Oh
The next letter, apparently: from regon, at which the agreement wns
Mr. Hpencer in Mr. Smith was doted I worked out. Utter he also Informed
New York. February 2D. 188B. and bo-1 Secretary Lansing of the pln. In
W-tUlf the eotlitliUlli.vUinll colUnilled.
brief mess.'igo from Ambassador
ports, how.
resslon that
whuld pro-
rtosn f.otidltiotiM u.hleh tit rrnit
;i'r eu mat nciore long tnc cone or "7... 1 " " "
a i, i, .i .. . f i a. I operations oi iimerican troons woulrt i " " " '.
announcement of the action, no- lbp ll,ril,ed to an urea some distance Ireidnt Is Flnu.
tification that the Scott-Obregon m'r,h of I lie present baso at Colonial It was reiterated that president
U agreement Is acceptable to the OnMan. j Wilson stood unalterably by the po-
American government was tele- Governor Calles of fconora has in-sltion declared In the note to Oer.
graphed to Gcnernl Scott at Kl atriU'ten ins columns along tho Ho-, many that the abandonment of
newer to be careful ; present submarine method must.be
ntact with Ueneral ! declared and effected Immediately or
the 1'nlted States must Hi.ver dlplo.
rnallo relations. This demand wtw
designed to permit of no argument
and high officials repeatedly have as.
sorted that anything short of a literal
compliance woOld he folic "d by, a,
diplomatic rupture.
Text Kxia-Uyl Italay. '
The official copy of the note hnrft.
Iv will reaiih WoHhitigton before to.
morrow night, but the tlocurtirnt whs
given to the press in Berlin late'-to-night
and tho 'unofficial text was ex.
pected to reh th t'Blled atat
early tomorrow mornlrif, .u j
Ambassador Oerard'a measnge Mini.,
(tent before he had examined the note
Itself, lis meaning wiin not entirely
cloar because of errors In tra.nsmla
Hlon of the diplomatlo decipher. '
Seeretnry Lansing declined- to com
ment on the message or make it pith- '
lie, because he feared It wns garbled
or that Mr. Gerard, not having seen
the note Itself, might have made ln
accurate deductions. Furthermore,
the ambnssndor had Indicated that his
message must be regarded a being
highly confidential, , . .
l'lmir in Ihx'ilicHngv
Secretary Ijinslng sent the dispatch
to the Wtiite House for the Informa
tween Milton H. Smith; president of j ture operntlona of both the
the Louisville & Nashville railroad. 1 American end Mexican military
and the lale Samuel Spencer, prcsl-1 forces and evidences cordial eo-
dent of the Southern railway, relnt- operation between the two gov
tug to an alleged agreement, to divide I ernments In their commou pur-
the south between the two roads, was ! pose.
Introduced by counsel for the Inter-1 "As this agreement Is being
state commerce commission at to. 1' submitted to the de facto gov.
PASSES SENATE
BY HEAVY VOTE
Fifty-eight "Ayes" Are Re
corded in Its Favor While
Five "Noes" Are Heard, All
; of Them Republican,
!BT MONNIMS JOUVNAi. SPtCIAl. LIASttD WIOII
Washington, May 4.- The Hollla
farm loan hill embodying the admin-
(ration plan for establishing a system I tlon of the president. At-the same
of rural credits passed the senate to j time an effort was made to have the
night by il vote of 68 to 6. errors of transmission vorreetod. It
Henntorn Itrnndeire I-oilire Oliver. 't"",r '"', nuweycr.i tnm ma
Page anfl Wadsworth. all republicans, i
voted against the measure. I
contents of the note would lie known
before the correction could be made, .
Thn l.i il ufi.,- .i.,.. , nf "Uiciuis gave espt-rwr. cotisinera-
debate. passed the senate practically "n pr""' d, ?u U,M "f t,,hat
as reported bv the banking commit- ?JT,n C "f ,lor' ,M'Mi a
tee. An amendment by Senator Smoot''h Rwneral German nubile behind
reducing the salaries of the farm loan ' ht A,s "v. d Vr61-" of
board from H0.000 to $7,r.0f, which : relations wan unit m ieo waiea ao
was adopted by a voteVf 2 to 25. In mJZ Z 'vhS. iT
the committee of the wnoie, was re-. ' h trlnclp cminelatud In tha
considered when the bill reached tolrt"&jL?Xr
.lukIi. o,l mum .tofe.-ite.l "(I tn III. ul- W 1IW 4 Ollf HCt AMSCM,
h ,,. ,.i.,i,, i.. ..... This manifesto of lruary an-
the
gan as follows:
"Private and confidential,
"Dear sir: Your letler of the !2nd.
Inst.
"Pizarro: Since our last conversa
tion tho division of the new world be
tween us hiis made some progress.
"tortez: Yes. you seem to have
acquired Patagonia and 1 have secur
ed a considerable part of North
istructlons to General Scott, mithorta-
Ing him lo hold a final conference
with General obreeon and close the
matter up then won prepared,
i ortiuil StiitctlKDt Mam,
It Is expected President Wilson will
Issue a format statement regarding
the agreement, as soon as word comes
that General Ourranaa had approved
it. No official outline of the plan
voted with the republicans for
reduction.
A somewhat similar bill has been
reported by the house hanking com
mittee, and It Is said will be brought
up for consideration In the house
soon. Llko the smiate measure,
nounced to the world Germany's In.
tentlmt of treating: as warships armed ,
merchantmen of hostile nations, It
was clearly Indicated that In the fu
ture Germany intended to flinlt with
out warning belligerent . merchant
it soipn cnirvnig nrinnrntnu on wo?
Would create chain of farm loan ' """" ; '.""' ""'
l.iil( hi.l I, .liffer- In mf,in of ou. "'' " tumnmoo
eriitlon
davs. This plan embodies a unlflca
tlon of the Methodist bodies Into one
general conference with three subor-
AmerlcH which touched my former wus. available tonight, hut it is known
territory, but it s.eins to me you haveithat In siiIihIhiicb U provides for an
aniulrcd a conslilt rable n'k of the, active campaign by Terrain: troops
Isthmus, which is the connecting link ! "gainst bandits In the region south of
between us. Was it understood thai .the present lines of the Amerleun 'x
eoniiectiiiK links which touched both ' pedltioit and for tho gradual wltli-
of us should be a mutter of ctmsuUa. j drawn! of tho Anierlcsn forces lo tho
Tho senate bill provides for a non
partisan farm loan board to consist
of the secretary of the treasury and
four others, constituting general con
trol of a farm loan system of twelve
or more hiiul banks, und of farm loan
associations through which loans ac
tually would be made.
Tlie principal fight on the bill wns
directed at tlie sections exempting the
banks and their mortgages from taxa
atlon and permitting employes to be
chosen without regard to the civil
service.
mv - me nuuia iw . .,,wi a ti-a m ii ii rwnd aare
B rut'n domination thanh,w.t .hl. i)ind." said Miss
know SerrS lB. c f0UDlr'- jlPaul. ' "Our convention will merely
nv nerient r 1 1 ai V"u" attempt to take run aavaniaHc ut
U......I ... ...... ;, -'h ---'11011 liefore notion or not?" nonicr, as tne anility of tlie MexH'titi
J. ,?M me exists amo r the! -Mr- ,,"" ' f,"' lh letter troops to police Uie country adequate-
That r'1"' ,' h'8 f'"Xn. on "atalement of principles on which hr Is demoiistrated. le of the Mex-
branches of Metnodlsni to HO.imion . . , , 'i,,...,, .. i .iiinin m i..,.,,,i,, m a, .(.
,h..ir .e,rt existence, was lndleat- " " ...... "'" "-" - " . ' . ."
- 1 a hir'h Mii'iiiiiiAii r 11 ft i tn(tni-i r iff c m v a. ttrii 1 1 1 mi ritinntirn iiiim in urn
tnv nelcr ' v .. .... , aueirirt 10 tune iun -
brtnJ it. " onr Par failure tobaallce of power held by women In
s up eur resources, ficrmanv I ,,c inte ,n heln elect such
, I l lie pui""6C . w ,
TheJDay in Congress
candidates as will assist m passing
the Anthony amendment to th.r con-stitullon."
Resi
SENATTC
irned rlhata . ,
rmv " continued deliberation on
?y worganusatlon bill
V('te o? Is"0"!)8 farm ,oan bill by a
prid;r nva 81 6:50
CONFESSES TO MURDER
ed in the report.
AMERICAN TRADE IN
PHILIPPINES GROWS
era of lirltish merchantmen had in
structions to attack German eubma
rincs. WHmui's lmsttbn.
The position of tbe 1'nlted Slate
jls tii.it merchant ships have a right t
; arm themselves for defensive pur
poses, and that as long as armament
was carried and (med for . defensive
purposes the vessels shouli receive
the same treatment as other peaceful
trading hhips. This piwltlon tin re
stated and elshornted upon In a mem
nrandmii on the subleet. prepared by
Secretary lainstng lit the direction of
President 'Wilson and only a few dnya
after the dispatch of the note to Ger
many, (.cut to the governments of
Mnrope, netitrnl us well n belligerent.
Olio Ib'IK'flll ittf.
Some officials tmilght found a hope
ful Indication in n nrcris dlsDNtch
,.to,u... .c .1v....... whl( h Btiiti;a Uilt, vvtwltitirb.v ,,-
Kin Ittego, tuhf. May 1 -(tadiu ; tni.llt W.U) , ir,psrent In Berlin over
orders were sent from lure loduy to j 1B lffl.f vch efoneeesloiw" to b
oiiiinundel- M. !.. Irelich of the i .,, ,ii,t i,j.. nn ili-rmui nublla
U, S, CRUISER ORDERED
TO TROUBLE ZONE
cruder (H-iiv.ir to pieced with lilj
opinion.
Louisville & Nashville, nor the South-j vlded. slid In return the expedition
ern would aeqnire lines In tlie tcrri-jai y tori es are pledged lo exercise ev
tory of the other and thai neither! ety pnssiide prcaotton Ut avoid
would foster construction of new! f lashes with (he townspeople In the
iv aoniN, jauNAL siai lUllli wil
New York, May 4. In a compila
tion issued today by the foreign trade
department of the National City bank,
an enormous growth of trade between
fr fADTI I M C TTI I CRi the United States ami Plitlippme is
OF rUnlUINt I LLLLn lam)8 , for the lost sixteen
Islands nave oecn un-
p. m. to noon
Con
itiMjj
idered
ihuki:,
unanimous consent bus-
m7a , ))M "thori8lng naval and! blackmailing him s
voU,,!J,,fflr',r enlist..,! men to (to her home lat night to
ermno,,. ' ",r,lp onaer ttaltlen
gov-
unaBi!mf,.,U"nrou" min(r bilI by
fridaV "Pa " 6:35 p
ra. until noon
fY mMIM joumai 1M1 Ho WIM)
Frankfort. Ind.. .May. 4. Giles W.
Trask, wealthy farmer and elevator
owner, confessed today, the police say.
that he killed Mrs. Alice A. Kvnns. a
fortune teller known as Madame
Band. According to the alleged e'i
fsion. Trask said the woman had
nu lie nroi
make a set
tlement. An altercation rouoweu ou
he struck her with en axe, according
,0 the confession.
Trask. who Is married, is forty-five
years old, and the murdered wonmn
fifty-six, -
vent's tnnt tin.
der the American flug.
Kxports from the I'nlted Slates to
the islands fur that period amounted
to $S01.On,0U0 and the Cnited States
imported from the islands products to
the value of $:l S.OOD.hoO, while for
the sixteen years prior to annexation
exports amounted to only ..oea,a0
and imports to about l-'l.eu0.000.
This country now receives more
than 40 per Oont of the Wnnds' ex
port and supplies u- little more thun
50 per cent of thfir Imports. Prior
to their acquisition, the Philippines
received only one per tent of the ex
port" of tills country,
lines nor completion of unfinished
ones into the territory of the other.
"How did on make out on thedlvls-
renlons in which thev continue to act
The limitation of the espeoition
unrior the (agreement have nut been
Ion of the new world?" esked Chief I disclosed. It l understood, however,
Counsel Folk of President Smith that It will bold tbe present linen for
when he hn.i flnl.sh,1 rvudliiK. the time being end not proceed to
"The Southern got evert!,lng 1 1 the south In anv event. The best In- i f IRFfiOR Y WNJOW W'Wt)
wnliled. The L, & N. dlrlil't Ket any i formation t the war department a I "lu-viv)it (mvv;,i hiiu
thing," replied Mr, Smith. " didn't j to Go- l resent locntion of the Amerl
even get a neck 'f the Isthmus." , ran forces shows thnt O-oinal Per-
.i n. ... j-luiig t nt NamiitulpA, but thnt pa-
MTVIPAM AIO PAM trols are el etk l-i the south of thst
iviLAIunii nmiiiiumi
vessel iroin iopoiotmiiipo. hinaioo, to fTeident Wilson ami Secretary
Salln Ci u. The Denver wns under . Jnslng prepared to remain wp lata
enlers to leave Topolobampo for San lnl,iht .-, he, the unetflols! text t
i Mcgo, to hold target practice, having j tn reply earned W er. liaptenr,
been relleed 'y the rrulser Cba t.c ,,u, 0(,n.l.ee4 lie, -nen tt be
noogi, lenine Vi,Aa tl She iptvh.-ji
Sulliui t'rux, which Is the v. extern ! ncnM 1 vtXit- Ixfrtrw wwa
terminal of Trhiisntepce rutlwa.v, n ' m. k f.'t.l t( ewt-atAr
reported recentlv to have ben, th j Kept a ftrrtv at wie lepart'rtwit
scene of an antl-Ameii. n dem.tne.i 1 1 vei '-v, The Wl'isl t-it. thvwit h st
tlon following thesltirV on Awerb'-.n ! wte ifiS'i , s'l Hrtre 'tVom
ttiHips t Piitrsl, t ATnesAy.T 'f'i'd tlSfM he e, feMlv
- ,ti, vteiH the tveTnmeot,
idiirrt ptirnotog
.altered tiaiids of
FQPAPTQ FYFP TinM!l"iila leneil IviTJliing's reports
COUm LO LALlU I HJM indlCBted that the 'net tva.ior.
T DOMIM JOUNMAL rtetAb klMfO )
Prrsldlo, Tex., May 4 -Jim Bodri
gueji. an Amerleun cltlurn, arrested a
few weeks ago In Mexico charged
with the murder of Albert Itodrlgiu i.
mayor of Ollmian. ha- etusped from
Jail, where ho ws being held pend
ing execution. l(oorigii" is now on
this side nf the river. Jose Is no rel.
live of Albert Hodrlguet. The details
of the ecp are bcuif kept aecret.
It v of hie mitiman.t i Inactive pen 4
log the oot.ome of ,h Kl Pso cn-rennce.
Neither the t.te department aerj
in, tevnsn rinrfc' ,e ei"
dispatches from M'-'it.N ft
the day l ent leg tm ,fKerii Oet t -le !1te Vrttrce,
Rttllllite tn.li, ,be NVOtn1Vr'H j friVefi
SBtvenient. It W HM(ril. the ti,' j t'l'rlce i
aoni of Cat tent' action MI we Wfe- -,
throiidh Genr iVhreirrtM Tfr
iitliuti jr adxlAtit tut )AHiela et ?y .
I The tS'TWrsn TWsyinti'ri -f 'l'")'-
ntlft tAH Tfi t D1.K- VfiNiv . VfiVfv4 e 'Iti 'the irhwve
rMU I l 111 i v I ;V IViO : f,,t(,.t, -t .Mmac( n fhe 'ttetit-h!
" i i.'M'Of) r-A .. ,icel f'.Ht iif'pf Teh-
m .i mMi !. tvaeve twwi i i "let wist.v .o!d -vt!"M!.-
asttintiv'., M.v -'-I'n'f.'v 'Sn. fc'rrir-l nt. r'i-.antmen helitflns U)
er.,1 i5rvveV hnt'inrri'H tof.f.'h't 'thtrt 'ourii.i tea at war w' " :iiv ok
be hA ee.-ei'vefl ''"WfoNhv Irfcirmii - . warship and tu " VvouM
ttce bori fit- murt of "'tree of the j be treated ' soitik.
iy.v.vA Mf.fft for dlning iemra jwithx,,t
, c vt, u.-ft'tf" and bouse l.-ist week j tt f
with t'd.rnnui orifinsr thai no Wcpsil-"-
, s:iW i)t-.'i which tuipht leji r '
J 'ii-h v.-er'mai'--, ' rcfii,svi
Viatel
i de,.
i v
