The Interior Journal
-r fi-
Established 1860.57th Year.-No. 36
Stanford, Lincoln County, Kentucky, Friday, May 5, 1916
id
VL-
TuescJ- ici Fridays
x
K
15
BIG DAMAGE
VERDICT UPHELD
Court of Appeals Says Cincinnati
Southern Must Pay $12,500 to
Emmett Goode of McKinney
After reversing the case on two
separate appeals the Court of Ap-
peals at Frankfort late this week af-1 gve vacancies yet to be filled. The ! Court in handling the road bond mo
firmed the judgment of the Lincoln board ratified and approved the con-1 ney in the event the $200,000 in
circuit court in awarding heavy dam- tract wfth Supt. W. C. Wilson for j bonds is voted by the people at the
ages to Emmett Goode, of McKinney ) another year, and re-elected the f ol- j special election which will be held
-this county, against the Cincinnati, j iowjng teachers. Miss Annie Mc- May 13th. Squire Helm sets forth
New Orleans & Texas Pacific rail- Kinney, Mrs. H. D. Phillips, Miss his position already in the following:
road company. The amount of dam- jennje Newland, .Mrs. C. H. Camp-' Hustonville, May 3, 1916.
ages which Goode was awarded bybell Miss Sallie Burdett, and MissjEditor Interior Journal: ,
a jury in court here at the last trial j Elizabeth Higgins. Teachers are yet , In case tne bond issue carries, I
of the case was $12,500, which is.to be suppiied for the 5th, 6th and ! wil1 appoint Jones Baughman and
one of the heaviest damage judg- j gtn gra(jes amj the high school. John Burton, two suitable men for
ments rendered here in many moons.
Goode, who is a son of Wm. R.
Goods, a well known resident of Mc
Kinney, was employed by the rail
road as brakeman a few years ago.
While in the service of the road,
switching at Ludlow, he had a heel ,
torn ott. Suit lor damages was en-
tered and twice before a jury award-
ed him damages, but each time the far as can jje ascertained little inter- j started out on the farm at 50 cents
Court of Appeals reversed the ver- J est is being taken ' in the election, , a day, got a start, rented a farm,
diet and sent the case back for a re- j an(j no contests are expected to de- married, raised and educated a fam
trial. The sum of $12,500 wasvej0p J ily of ten children, and now owns
awarded Goode on this last trial, and j a farm worth $20,000. He is a
this the state's highest court up
holds, so that all that is left now is
for Goode to receipt for a check
from the company. His attorneys
are Robert Harding and Emmet Pur
year, of Danville, and T. J. Hill, Jr.,
of Stanford.
CALL COUNTY CONVENTION
By Lincoln Democrats to Send Del
egates to State Convention.
Pursuant to the call of the Demo
cratic State committees, Chairman
W. O. Walker, of the Lincoln Coun
ty Democratic Committee, has issued
a call for a mass convention to be
held in the courthouse at Stanford
on Saturday, May 20, at 1 o'clock
p. m., for the purpose of selecting
19 delegates from this county to at
tend the state convention a Lexing-
on. on May 24. At the state con
vention delegates will be instructed i
to vote for the renommation of
President Woodrow Wilson for pres
ident at the national convention at
Chicago. So far, but little interest
seems to "be taken in the matter, as
it is improbable that any contests i
will develop before the convention,
The official call as issued by Chair-
n Walker is as follows: !
Official Call.
In pursuance to a call of the State
Central and Executive Committees
of Kentucky the Democrats of Lin
coln county are hereby
called to
meet in mass convention at the '
court house in Stanford, (in the Cir- J
cuit Court room) Saturday, May 20,
1916, at 1 o'clock, p. m., for the pur-
pose of selecting delegates to the
State Convention to be held in Lex-
ington May 24, 1916, to select del- thirteen times. Bolar at once made j
egates to the National convention a get-a-way and has not as yet been '
which meets in St. Louis, June 14, apprehended. From reports gather-
1916, to nominate a candidate for(ed from some of the witnesses, the j
President. Lincoln county is enti-.
tied to 19 delegates or one for ev
ery one hundred votes or fraction
over' 50 cast by the democratic par
ty at the last Presidential election.
All known democrats 21 years old,
or over and all those who will be- mediately here present method of board of directors .met yesterday af
come 21 by the next regular Novem- j submarine warfare is expected within j ternoon at the court house and elect
ber election are entitled to partici- j a f ew hours to be in the hands of i ed officers. Hugh Tarkington was
pate in this convention. , President Wilson. The American i elected President, Maurice J. Farris
Given under my hand as Chair- j Ambassador at Berlin went to the ' and Homer Wray, Vice-Presidents;
man of the Lincoln County Demo- J German Foreign office to receive the i J. Beecher Adams, Secretary, and S.
cratic Executive Committee, this ' note from the Foreign Minister late ! H. Nichols, Treasurer. Messrs. Geo."
May 1, 1916. W. O. WALKER. ; Thursday afternoon. Nothing isJMasseyC. P. Cecil, Jr., John S.
j known as to the tenor of the reply j Baughman & Son, and T. E. Dunn
BALL GAME AT McKINNEY. j whether it will acquiesce in full to were also added to the list of direct
One of the most interesting base the President's demand or merely ! ors. The 2nd, 3rd and 4th of August
ball games ever witnessed in Mc-, offer concessions. Washington dis- j have been chosen as the dates, be
Kinney. was played there Saturday patches have indicated that unless ginning on Wednesday and lasting
afternoon when the McKinney team , full asquiescence is given a sever- j three; days. The old association's
defeated the Moreland Sluggers by ance of diplomatic relations with ' grounds are to be used and no wheels
the score of 5 to 0. The feature of Germany will follow. j are to be left unturned toward the
the game was the battery work of I Reuter's Amsterdam correspond- success of the project. An appeal is
Uayton and Jones tor iviciunney.
With the exception of two wild
throws by the Morelanders the game '
was an errorless affair. Dayton, who j
twirled for McKinney had the visit-j
ors ar nis mercy at an times, ana ,
during the entire game never allow
ed a hit and struck out 15 batsmen
in the seven innings that he worked.
Jones behind the bat played a star
game and deserves much credit for
his excellent work.
WAS TROUBLED AT NIGHT
Painful, annoying bladder weak
ness usually indicates kidney trouble.
So do backache, rheumatism, sore,
swollen or stiff muscles or joints.
Such symptoms have been relieved'
by Foley Kidney Pills. Henry Ru-
dolp, Carmi, 111., writes: "Since tak
ing Foley Kidney Pills I sleep all
night without getting up. Sold every
where. '
PART OF FACULTY RE-ELECTED
Five Vacancies Yet to Be Filled
School Election Saturday.
At a meeting of the Stanford City
School Board early this week, sev-
eral of the faculty of the Stanford
Graded and High School were re -
lected for next year. Quite a num-
ber of the present faculty have not
aDnlied for re-election, and there are
c,.. .vn frncfc will Vp
elected. and the board appointed T.
W. Pennington, clerk and T. J. Hill,
Jr., judge to hold the election. The
terms of W. B. McKinney and W. C.
Shanks expire the latter having been
named as a member of the board to
j fiu tne vacancy caused by the resig-
, nat;on Df Dr. W. B. O'Bannon. So
DIXIE ROOK CLUB,
The Dixie Rook Club was' delight-!
fully entertained by Mrs. James A
Harris at her home near Hubble
Thursday afternoon. A delicious
salad course was served to the fol
lowing guests after the games: Mrs.
John B. Foster, Mrs. Shelton Saufley,
Mrs. Bettie Bush, Mrs. E. P. Woods,
Mrs. Annie Engleman, Mrs. Lucy
Miller Bartley, Misses Mary Lee and
Elizabeth Givens, Mrs. R. T. Bruce,
Mrs. Harry Hill, Mrs. J. H. Wright,
Mrs. McKee Riffe, Mrs. John O. Reid,
Mrs. C. H. Foster, Miss Sue T. En-
gleman, Mrs. Tom Pence, Mrs. T.
J. Hill, Jr. Mrs. Eliza Harris and
Miss Levisa Harris assisted in enter-
; taining.
TO MAY MUSIC FESTIVAL
Miss Ellen Ballou, principal of the ' .
Music Department of the Stanford
Graded and High School, headed a
delegation of her most prohcient pu
pils to Cincinnati, where they will
enjoy the May Music Festival for
several days. Those who accompa
nied Miss Ballou were Misses Eliza-
beth Higgins, Mary Craig Hayden,
1 Y-k 1 1 t 1 A 1
ot fans, josepmne carpenter, An-
nette Wearen, Annie V. Craig, Nan-
cy K. McKinney, Anna Ureen Wood,
Eva Rankin and Clara Cash.
NEGRO KILLING IN GARRARD.
Aaron Bolar, colored, fired two i
shots from a pistol into the stomach
of Curt Ambrose, colored Saturday j
night at White Oak, a negro settle-
ment near Bryantsville, on the Buena
Vista road, from the effects of which
he died about twelve hours later, his
intestines having beer, perforated
killing was unprovoked and com
LATEST WAR NEWS
Germany's reply to the demand of (
the United States that she cease im-'
ent teiegrapns to ionoon mat metz, ;
capital of Lorraine, a qity of 60,000
population and rated as one of the
strongest fortresses of the world, is
being evacuated by the civil popula-
nun.
RHEUMATIC PAIN STOPPED.
The drawing of muscles, the sore
ness, stiffness and agonizing pain of
Rheumatism quickly yield to Sloan's
Liniment. It stimulates circulation
to the painful part. Just apply as di
rected to the sore spots. In a short
time the pain gives way to a tingling
sensation of comfort and warmth.
Here's proof "I have had wonderful
relief since I used your Liniment on
my knee. To think one application
gave me relief. Sorry I haven't
space to tell you the history. Thank
ing you ior wnat your remedy has
done for me.'" James S. Ferguson.
done tor me.' James S. Ferguson,
Philada, Pa. Sloan's Liniment kills
pain. !5c at Druggists.
TWO GOOD WEST END MEN
' Will Be Named On Commission If
Road Bonds Carry.
The Interior Journal has received
a communication from Squire J. K.
( Helm, of the Hustonville magisterial
' district, in which he gives the names
of two prominent, farmers of the
' West End, who will be named on the
! commission to assist the Fiscal
I commissioners of jrood roads. Now
'as to Mr. Baughman's credentials:
' He Gome's from a family of large
landed interests of Lincoln county,
f or generations back; has had a lot
of experience in road building;
' knows how to take care' of a dollar
and w
1 board
and will make a valuable man on the
As to Mr. Burton: He
mighty clever republican and the
People will find him Johnny-on-the-
spot when it comes to spending their
money.
I have not had a chance to see
either of these gentlemen, but take it
for granted they will serve.
Very truly,
J. K. HELM, Sr.
PARALYSIS PROVES FATAL.
Mrs. Amanda Mercer, aged 55
years, .who resided with her husband
on the T. J. Hill farm on the Hus
tonville pike, died as a result of a
j paralytic stroke, Tuesday. The bur
ial took place Friday after services
at the home of J. C. McClary of
this city. Besides her husband, the
deceased is survived by several chil
dren. She was a good wife and
( mother, and beloved by all who knew
WEDDING BELLS.
Tanner Hilton, a widower of 28, J
and Miss Mary Kidd, 24, were mar
ried at Rev. WW.,Brock'abx.that
gentleman, on the 1st. '
Robert Sweeney, a widower of 57,
and Mrs. Jane DeCovey, 43, were
joined heart and
Balls this week
hand at Frank La
CAT ADOPTS RABITS.
A cat belone-incr to Mrs. E. D. Eads
iw n,,vfo,, ,rt i!flo Muuc ,,
gives them as much attention as she
does her two kitties. The little fam-
ny js a very unusual one but seems a
happy one, never the less.
A LIVE FAIR THIS TIME.
A live bunch is at the head of the
Danville fair association this year
and the best old-fashioned country
fa;r Little Britain has ever had is
said to be assured. The Danville
Advocate said of the organization
and election of officers this week :
j The new .Fair Association, which has
been organized, evidently means
business, and Danville is to have a
real live, old-fashioned country fair
this time. The recently organized
lw ue maun io me. man ciose up, ano
the man far back, by having some
thing to interest all. The idea that
the chautauqua is to supplant the
fair has been relegated to oblivion,
and the new organization will have
as its aim the exhibition of local
products as well as good offers to
out-of-town live stock men. Boyle
county and Danville ought to have
a good fair, and this organization
has every intention of making this
year's attempt the best one in years..
TELLS WHAT SHE THINKS
Anna Hawn, Cedar Grove, .Mo.,
writes. "We think Foley Cathartic
Tablets are the best liver pill we
ever got hold of, as they do not
nauseate of gripe, but act freely on
the liver." Recommended for consti
nation, bloating,' sour stomcah. cas
ion stomach, bad breath, clogged or1
irregular bowel action. Sold everv-
where7 -.".
Hustonville
A quiet home wedding, beautiful
in its simplicity, was solemnized at
the home of Mr. and Mrs. J. J. Allen
on last Saturday afternoon at- four
o'clock, when their eldest daughter
was given in marriage to Mr. Richard
Poole Anderson, formerly of Mississ
ippi, but at present located at Pine
ville, Ky. A very few intimate
friends and relatives were present to
witness the ceremony, which was per
formed by Rev. A. H..,Baugh, in his
usual impressive manner. To say
that Mr. Anderson has won a prize
is putting it in far too mild words.
Not only being one of old Lincoln's
fairest products, his bride possesses
lovable traits of character, far sur
passing all physical charms and will
be ever missed among us, where she
is much beloved. The groom is con
nected with the Prudential Life In
surance Co., and possessing a genial,
truly southern manner, has made
many friends during his sojourn
among us. Heartiest congratulations
and best wishes follow- the happy
pair, who are at present enjoying
an extended trip East, including
New York, Washington, and other
points of interest.
The Commencement Exercises of
the Hustonville High School will be
held Friday evening, May 12th, at
the Christian church. Exercises to
begin at eight o'clock. Following
are the graduates: Miss Nancy Wil
mot Weddle, Miss Roberta Bruce
Blain, Miss Mary Oneita Shewmaker,
Mr. Julian Cabbie Riffe, Mr. Oris
Francis Barnette, Mr.lCarroll Reid
Allen, Mr. Jessie Lee Lair, Mr. Sam
uel Reid Conway. Motto. "Fit via
vi." Class colors: White and Green.
Class Flower: White Rose.
The Baccalaureate sermon to the
Hustonville high school graduates
will be preached by Rev. R. L. Bran
denburg, pastor of Hustonville Bap
tist church on Sunday, May 7th, at
the Christian church.
W. G. Cowan went to Stanford
Sunday, where he took the train for
London, to serve as a witness in Fed
eral court. v
Mr. and Mrs. Will Stone, Mr. and
Mrs. Daniel Traylor, of. Stanford,
made a short call to friends here
last Sunday evening on ; their way
home from "Elixir Serines.
Allen Brothers bought 1-000-pound
cow iqr$55.'5ij2Lr.
A year ago last 'Monday "Uncle"
John Armstrong, the faithful old
mail carrier here for years, died.
Carroll .Reid is feeling lots better
at present.
Cale Brown was at home Sunday
from Elixir Springs considerably im
proved, not yet well. He left again
Monday morning for another week's
stay.
Mrs. Ephram Godbey on the Dan
ville pike, one mile north of here,
suffered a stroke of paralysis last
week and is not much improved.
She has been unable to speak any
thing. Miss Burdette of Stanford, was
a visitor of Mrs. W. D. Nave last
week.
A child of Rev. Brandenburg has
been confined to, her home for sev
eral days with the measles. It is
supposed she contracted them on the
train while on their way here.
Walter Owsley and family left here
Sunday for Louisville to live. He
has a position with the Old Hickory
Wagon company there.
J. W. Hoskins came home Sunday
morning from Merrimac, where he
had been again at the bedside of
Capt. Hunter, who is in a very crit
ical condition.
James H. Yowell has purchased a
new 5-passenger Ford touring car.
Bob-whites were heard to whistle
their clear "Bob-white" last Satur
day evening for the first time..
Mrs. Sanford Retherford accom
panied Charles Wheeler and wife to
Perryville last week, to attend the
Presbytery.
W. D. Hocker and nephew, John
Hocker, were among those that went
!vto Stanford Saturday.
J. B. Williams and aunt, Mrs. Alice
Vanarsdall, of Harrodsburg, visited
relatives here last week. Mrs. Van-
arsdale is 88 years old and made the
trip in a buggy.
A mad dog was killed here last
Saturday morning.
Two large ,auto truck loads of
chickens were hauled from the pro
duce house here Monday, to Har
rodsburg. Their business here is increasing-
every day.
Since the mad dog scare here last
week all '"dogs at large have been or
dered muzzled or killed by the po
lice. There are a great many worth
less dogs in our town any way and
should be put out of the way.
Josiah Bishop lost a fine Short
horn cow last Saturday from eating
.
weeks old.
clover. She left a fine calf two
We had an awful nice rain here
NO MONEY TO OIL STREETS
So City Council Decides Not to Un
dertake Proposition.
The City Council will not oil the
streets of Stanford this summer.
Lack of funds was given as the rea
son at the regular meeting of the
City Fathers Thursday night. Much
disappointment is heard on all sides
fthat the Council has been forced to
take this step as it was hoped by cit
izens generally that it could see its
way clear toward borrowing suffi
cient funds for the purpose of buy
ing and applying oil and slightly in
creasing the next tax levy to take
care of this extra expense. It has
been proposed that the business men
and merchants down town, raise a
subscription fund to apply oil in
front of their places of business,
which will probably be undertaken
now that there seems little chance
of the city doing the work. The
council also decided to enforce rig
idly the city ordinance against pig
pens in the city and notice has been
given all who have pigs within the
city limits to arrange to remove
same at once.
JOE WARNER COMES HOME
To Get Away from Serious Situation
Cause By Big- Strike.
Joe H. Warner, son of Mr. and
Mrs. W. K. Warner, of this city,,!
returned home Thursday from Pitts
burg, Pa., where he has been em
ployed in the electrical department
of the big Westinghouse plant for
some time. Workmen there are on
a big strike, and it has become dan
gerous for a man to try to work
there, so Joe came home till the la
bor troubles are settled. He says
that 50,000 or 60,000 workmen are
on strike for higher pay and short
er hours in that big manufacturing
center and that conditions are very
serious. Young Warner has made
good as an electrician and gives
promise of going to the head of his
profession in short order.
MURDER TRIALS AT RICHMOND
A singular coincidence in circuit
court, which convened at Richmond
this week for the May term, is the
murder trials of three Hopkins bro
thers, charged with killing the town
JiiarshaLatBereaj ancLthe. thrajVan
Winkle brothers of Paint Lick,
charged with killing a neighbor.
Tuesday morning for a while. The
only objection was that it quit too
quick for most of the farmers, as the
ground was getting rather hard.
W. G. Cowan arrived back home
Tuesday at noon from London, but
will return again next .Monday. '
Several went to Carpenter's creek
and Green River Tuesday, and most
all brought back plenty of fish.
Samuel Owens of McKinney, was
here Tuesday on business.
Uriah Dunn was at Columbia court
Monday in the interest of the horse
and mule business. He returned
Wednesday morning.
Everybody is making preparations
for corn planting next week.
Dr. John Cook, the colored veteri
nary surgeon of Stanford, was up
here Sunday evening in the interest
of his profession.
Sheep shearing has been the rage
this week and up to this writing Joe
Gann has clipped close up to 1,000
head.
W. D. Nave has sold out his mill
property here to parties that there
is no go-back with and will move to
Mercer county about the 15th of
May. He recently had sold his prop
erty to Mr. T. L. Minor of Harrods
burg, but by some unknown reason,
Mr. Minor flew the coop and did not
take the mill, which caused Mr. Nave
a considerable loss. Nave at once
set to work and soon found another
buyer.
James Cash and James Dodd of
Turnersville, were here on busi
ness Wednesday morning.
T. L. Carpenter and wife arrived
home Tuesday evening from an ex
tended fishing trip to Dunnville, Ca
sey county, much, pleased with their
catch.
Up-to-date invitations are being
received today by friends of Mr.
Samuel Reid Conway and Mr. Car
roll Reid Allen.
Bud Martin, of Danville, bought
here Tuesday a few extra fine stock
milk ccwrs at about six cents from va
rious parties.
HAS A GOOD REPUTATION
The orginal and genuine Honey
and Tar cough syrup is Foley's
Honey and Tar Compound and be
cause this has eiyen such universal
satisfaction and cured so many cases
of coughs, colds, croup and whoop
ing cough there are imitations and
substitutes offered to the public. In
sist on Foley's. Sold everywhere.
DOG CAUSES DOUBLE TRAGEDY
Parksville Murderer Kills Himself
Instead of Surrendering.
The Parksville dog was the cause
of a double tragedy. Pack Mont
gomery, who shot Polk Pendergraft
to death there Monday, after a
quarrel over the canine, killed him
self instead of surrendering to the
officers as it was reported he would
do, killed himself and his body was
found in the knobs back of the lit
tle village in the West End of Boyle.
Following the shooting, young Mont
gomery telephoned the sheriff of the
tragedy and said that he would wait
in Parksville until he came. Before
the officer arrived, Montgomery evi
dently changed his purpose for he
was not to be found. The sheriff ft
once organized a posse and gave
chase. He pursued the fueitive in
the knobs'and the party came uponUon,,mn . , .,.,.,
Me ua uu o u CL . ... i. i Baughman said that the game was
his body with a hole thru the head
The shot is said to have been self
inflicted. Montgomery accused Pen
dergraft of having killed his dog and
the fatal quarrel followed. Both!
were about 21 years old.
News of tJ-3 Churches
Go to Sunday
May 7th.
Sschool Sunday,
Baptist Young People's Union Sun-
day evening at 6:30. A mixed quar
tette will furnish some special mu
sic. Miss Mary Early will lead.
The new Harrodsburg Presbyte
rian church' will be dedicated on
Sunday, May 14. There will be three
services that day: 11 a. m.; 3.30 p.
m.; and 7:30 p. m.
Regular services at the Baptist
church Sunday. Sunday school at the
usual hour; preaching both morning
and evening by the pastor. Morning
subject, "The Witness of the Spirit."
Rev. W. H. Brengle has resigned
as pastor of the Baptist church at
Harrodsburg, having accepted a call
to the Baptist church at Trenton,
Missouri, where he will take up his
new work the first of June.
The Harrodsburg Methodist church
which has been recently handsomely
remodeled, will be dedicated next
Sunday. Bishop Hendrix, of Kansas
City, will deliver the dedication ser
mon. Definite action toward a union of
'the Metnodist 'Episcopal churches
was recommended to the Saratoga
Springs Methodist Conference by
Bishop Earl Cranston for the Com
mission on Federation
That more than $1,200,000 was
paid by the Methodist Episcopal
Church in 1915 toward the support
of superannuated ministers and wid
ows, was shown by a report at the
General Conference in Saratoga
Springs.
Presbyterian Church, Sunday,
May 7. Go-to-Sunday-School-Day cel
ebrated at 11 o'clock; Mission Band
at 2 o'clock; C. E. Meeting at 7
o'clock. The" Consecration of Tal
ents Matt. 25:14-30. Service at
7:30. All of the church in the Sun
day School on May 7.
The W. C. T. U. will meet Tues
day afternoon at 2:30 at the Meth
odist church, suoject: Safety in
Prohibition. Discussion Christian
Citizenship and Why I Favor Pro
hibition. Roll Call. Some Benefits
from Prohibition in Stanford Were
Our Laws Enforced. Motto For
God and Home and Every Land.
Services at the Christian church,
Sunday, May 7: Sunday school 9:45;
preaching 10:45 and 7:30; Young
People's Meeting 6:45. Do not for
get that Sunday is Decision Day in
the Bible School, and we are hoping
and praying that those still out of
Christ may decide for Him. The
week between May 7 and 14 is Cra
dle Roll Week, culminating on the
14th, with a Mother's Day Service.
Notice to Methodists.
Every Methodist and every person
who js inclined toward Methodism
should be at the Methodist church
Sunday school Sunday morning at
9:30. There will be no preaching
services because of the absence of
the pastor, who is in Louisville at
tending the annual meeting of the
Board of Church Extension to which
he is a delegate from the Kentucky
Conference Board. A Sunday school
Institute will be held at the Methodist
church on Wednesday and Thursday,
May 10 and 11. Everybody most
cordially invited. W. D. Welburn,
Pastor. ,
At Columbus, Ohio, William Cook,
aged 69, and Miss Jewell" Harris, 20,
were joined in marriage. The groom
has a round .dozen children who live
with him.
Three alleged possum hunters
were found guilty in Muhlenburg
Circuit Court and were sentenced to
the penitentiary by Judge John S.
Rhea.
! LJ? HELD TO
l"
GRAND JURY
Negro Placed Under $200 Bond
Charge of Running Gambling
House Other Convictions
on
Police Judge R. L. Davison held
Will Lee, colored, to await the ac
tion of the grand jury in circuu
court, under $200 bond, on a charge
of permitting gambling in his house
in Maxville, at the trial of Lee this
week. Joe Hayden and Charley
Baughman, both colored, who en
gaged in a shooting affray in which
both were wounded, at Lee's house,
last week, both admitted that they
were playing "coon can" for money.
Hayden""said that they had played
several games at 10 cents "on the
r.-.-" ...U 4.U- 1
just starting when the trouble came
up between them.
Several others pled guilty aiid
took a fine of $5 and costs each un
der the statute against loitering on
premises where a game of chance is
jin operation. They were Will Blake-
ley, Jr., Roy Stewart, Jim Mitchell
and Bob Crowe. Lee, in whose
house the trouble occurred, asked
for a separate trial on this charge as
j did "Black" Gaines, and they will
have their trials today. The triab
of the men engaged in the shooting
affray have not yet been held.
SAMUEL A. MOORE DEAD
Samuel A. Moore, of Boyle coun
ty, died Monday in Tampa, Fla.,
where he had spent the winter, as
had been his custom a number of
years. His remains were brought to
Danville and buried from the resi
dence of W. Logan Wood today. De
ceased was a gallant ex-Confederate
soldier, was a man of affairs, and
stood high in his community. He
was 70-odd years old. Mr. Moore
was the father of Mrs. John G. Lynn
of this county, and in her great loss
she has the unbounded sympathy of
a large circle of friends.
CASEYITE KILLS HIMSELF.
News was received from the West
End today that Sam Pendleton, a
young fanner on Brush Creek in Ca
sey county, about 10 miles from Hus
tonville on Rural Route No. 2, out
of that city, killed himself late Wed- '
nesday. The young man shot him
self with a .38 revolver, and after
lingering a short while, passed away.
W. H. Lair, of Hustonville, was call
ed on to bury him. Friends who got
to Pendleton before he succumbed
to his wound, sought to learn the
cause of his rash act but he refused
to tell why he had done it. He was
30 years of age and is survived by
his wife and several children.
AGREEMENT AS TO MEXICO.
The agreement reached by Gener
als Scott, of the United States, and
Obregon, of Mexico, for the joint
pursuit of Villa by American and
Mexican troops, has been ratified by
President Wilson. The White House
has not permitted any announcement
to this effect to be made, but it was
learned that jus as soon as word is
received that Carranza -approves the
pact this government will announce
officially that it has also done so. .
It was learned on official authority
that the agreement does not set any
time limit for the withdrawal of the
American troops. The wording of
the pact is such that the American
forces can remain in Mexico indef
initely unless Villa is either captured
or killed or his forces effectively dis
persed, and as soon as there are def
inite indications that American bor
der towns are no longer in danger
of raids.
The agreement provides that the
American commander in Mexico is to
have free use of the Mexican rail
ways for transporting supplies to his
troops. .
Real co-operation by the Mexican
forces with the American troops is
provided for in the agreement.
It is understood that General Scott
has pledged that the Mexican troops
will be allowed to have every chance
to kill or capture Villa. The Amer
ican troops will give the Mexican
forces their support, it is said, but
will not attempt to take the glory
of capturing Villa away from them.
It is understood the White House
will make public the texb of the ag
preement just as quickly as it learns
that Carranza lias ratified it.
KEEPING UP TO THE MARK,
"Spring fever" is not always a
joke. If you feel dull and lsuggish,
tired and worn out, suffer from
backache or weak back, rheumatism,
sore muscles, stiff joints or other in
dication of kidney trouble, it will
pay you to investigate Foley Kidney
Pills. They aro highly recommended
as prompt and efficient aids to
health. Sold everywhere.
