"IHB
Iron County Record. I
. WITH WHICH IS CONSOLIDATED "THE OBSERVER." !H
-. VOLUME XXIII $1.50 PER YEAR CEDAR CITY, UTAH, FRIDAY, MAY 5, 1916. 5 CTS. PER COPY. NUMBER 21. fll
TO'PUBLIC SER
VICE COMMISSIONS
-
! S. V. Pcct Sees Only Unneces
sary Expense and Graft us
Probable Results.
' DISCUSSES QUESTION
FROM PUBLIC VIEWPOINT
Side Lights Thrown on Recent Tele
phone Fight in Salt Lake County
and People's Remedy Shown.
Editor Iron County Record: In
your paper of April 14th is an article
by Mr. J. S. Woodbury iivping the pub
lic utility commission fot Utah Now
why should Iron or any other outly
ing counties desire a public utility
commission when thoy rave no public
utility to regulate? Why increaso the
. taxes of Iron and other counties to
&, pay the expense of such a hampering
'i piece of "Political machinery." In
i"t "any of the states the Utility Com-
mission costs over one hundrccl thoup-
v and dollars per year and if Utah hat.
one it shoulcf be one of the best. Nine
ty five per cent of Utah's Public Uti
lities are in Utah, Salt Lake, Davis,
K ; Weber, Box Elder, and Cacho Coun-
ties. Now why doe3 Mr. Woodbury
desire to increase Iron County's taxes
to regulate the public utilities of the
above Counties? Senator Seegmiller,
Senator Lunt, Representative Day of
Iron and Washington Counties and
, many others, saw that it would in-
' crease the taxes of their counties with
out bringing in any returns, so they
justly and properly voted against such
a commission. Salt Lake County
! knows what it wants, and on the 2Cth
of this month the Commissioners of
this county established a County Pub
; ' lie Utility Commission to attend to
their own business in their own coun
ty, without asking Iron, San Juan, or
any other of the outside counties to
please help them.
Ntak. Dox Eldcr County Solved it.
!" County. A remonstrance was sent to
i the company to restore the old rates
i but without avail. Mr. John Summers
- of Tremonton and a few other hustling
- farmers of that county, got together
t and organized the Bear River Valley
t Telephone Company. The first year
L that company did a good business,
rates in the country districts were one
I dollar and seventy five cents per
L month for phones. In the towns, two
dollars per month, including business
$. phones, all unlimited services. Many
, i of the subscribers were stockholder
1 L in the company. Each year the Beav
River Valley Company extended itf
aervice and to-day it extends from
Beaver Dam on the cast to Snowville
, on the west, and from Corrinno on the
s south to Black Pine, Idaho, on the
north-west and Pocatello valley, Ida-
ho, on the north. The Bolle Telephone
Company waB mighty glad to conned
i with the Bear River Valley Telephone
'' Company exchange for long distance
! ! tolls. The Bear River Valley Tele-
, 'H- phone Company is not only rendering
, V, cheap and efficient service but what
f profits acrue do not go to a foreign
' company, but into the pockets of the
i farmers who financed it.
What Public Utilities Dread.
L What any public utility mostly
P. dreads is competition by the people
i who patronize it. The fight just won
T by the people of Salt Lake County
i over the Mountain States Telegraph
and Telephone Company, is the best
evidence in tho world that Utah does
not want a public utility commission
At the mass meeting hold at Murray
k a few days ago diplomacy and argu-
ment were thrown to tho winds. The
people said we want good service, two
t ' dollars flat rates per month and free
service to Salt Lake City. The Tele
phone Company said it could not give
such scrvico to Salt Lake free and
stuck to it until tho people at that
meeting said "all right, you take out
J your phones and we will organize o
' ' company of our own." That was a
sixteen inch shell exploded in the
Telophone Company's camp. It gave
the management of that company the
f "Blind staggors" and they gavo in at
' - once, and said wo will servo the DEAR
k people at the Bnmo old rate, not
i ' charge for tho timo tho phones have
been disconnected, put the phones
back free and do it immediately. If
' the Mountain States Telephone Com-
E1 pany ever prayed for anything durinjr
m t SJio past three weeks it was for thr
V lflSte Public Utility Commission. Tho
ft telephone company knew that a utility
t commission could and would not or-
Sf ganize a competing company. It
I would have had only three men to deal
with in a "Deplomatic" manner in
stead of twolve hundred people and
half of that number irate womou.
What Might bo Dono.
With a public utility commission the
Tolephono Company might have
' ordered a largo and commodious auto-
v mobile and with their shrewdest lawyer
as a guido would have invited the
commissioners to view the grounds. In
that automobile would have been a
case of "FiBhers American Beauty"
on ice, a dozen or so "Sunny Brook
Ponies" bottled in bond and two or
three boxes of "Royal Havana Fillers."
' Thoy would have been introduced to
' half a dozen "ixed" subscribers in
i wwaaw
c
Hi'
IRON COUNTY IS
U IN POTASH
Gigantic Ledges Carrying High
Values Discovered in Hills
Adjacent to Parowan.
MILES OF COUNTRY
NOW STAKED OFF
Ledge Varying" in Thickness From 12
to (100 Feet, Extends Along '
Hills for Jinny Miles.
Without doubt the biggest mining
excitement Iron County has exper
ienced since the discovery of oil in
the vicinity of Virgin City, resulted
this week when it was learned thnt
extensive and high grade deposits of
notassium chloride had been discov
ered nnd were being loented in the
mountains adjacent to Parowan.
It later developed that a number of
Cedar City people have been working
away quietly for several weeks past,
and had a man in the hills locating
tho best of the ground for them, and
nothing was known or thought of the
maneuvers until the unusual numbers
of location notices begun to find their
way into the office of the County Re
corder, when the excitement broko
put. In the mean time, tests have
been made, estimates formed of the
extent and value of tho deposits, and
negotiations arc even under way for
their Bale to an outside company.
Tho names appearing on the most
of the location notices are Wm. H.
Corry, H. W. Lunt, Gronway Parry.
E. M. Corry, and H. H. Lunt. These
locations cover a largo ledge, varying
in thickness from a few feet up to
GOO feet in thickness, and extending
from Little Creek Canyon on the north
to the Summit mountains on the south
and is estimated to contain millions
of dollars worth of the product at tho
existing prices.
orlnc 'fifclriinly-lna ' iff TiTso interested
in the deposits.
Recent reports from Parowan are
to the effect that the people of that
place have discovered and located an
other rich ledge of tho valuable sub
stance half a mile or so higher up in
the mountains.
If all the reports circulating are en
titled to credance, there is no farther
necessity of going to Germany for
potash, nor for the farms of the east
ern states going short of this import
ant mineial salt.
Those who have socurcd good loca
tions aro very jubilant, and feel that
a fortune is already within their
"rasp, and it is now only a question
as to which of the expensive mnkes
of cars they will buy.
In the mean time it is said that the
hills are full of amateur Drospectors,
and that tho recorder's office is being
deluged with location notices,
The values are said to range from
TO to 30 per cent potash, and as tho
foundation is a soft sandstone, it is
said to be only necessary to emerso
tho material in water, when tho pot
ash goes into solution leaving the
sand and other waste material.
According to tho figures compiled,
the average nin of tho vein is worth
$42 per ton delivered on the railrc)id
at Lund.
It is predicted that there will be a
mining boom on within 30 days which
will eclipse anything that this sec
tion of country hascver known.
would improve the service. They
would have returned to Salt Lake in a
happy mood, had a plank steak with
mushrooms at Hotel Utah and when
they adjourned the Commission would
have put in the Salt Lake Papers how
thoy had compelled the Telephone
Company to spend thousands of dol
lars to improve its system just for a
measley little five cent toll rate to Salt
Lake City.
I am .not putting this too strongly.
I positively know that such methods
have been "used in other states and
thoy might be used in Utah, if tho oc
casion requires it. The street car com
panies of Philidclphia I'a., charge five
cents straight for a ride on their cars
and three cents extra for a transfer
which Is three cents more than any
othor city In that state. Tho people of
Phllidelphia knew it vas a holdup
They held mass me& s and de
manded a Public Utility Commission
to correct tho abuse.
In nineteen hundred and seven the
Legislature of Pennsylvania passed a
Public Utility bill and appropriated
one hundred and fifty thousand dollars
for Its first ycarB expense and today
after eight years timo and expense the
people of Philadelphia are still pay
ing five conts straight for car fare
and three cents extra for transfer, on
the same old road and in the same old
way.
Yours truly,
V. S. PEET.
Salt Lake City, April 27, 1010.
Presbyterian Mission Services.
The usual services will bo held next
Sunday. Tho Rev. Wm. Paden. D. D..
formerly pastor of the First Presby
terian Church of Salt Lake City, will
preach at 8:00 o'clock In tho library
i&iditorium. . ,
fV ftMW yW W Ir DV, Fwiwa
t
A PROCLAMATION
The City of Cedar, acting together with the Clean-up
Campaign Committee, has designated Sunday, May 7th, m
the day for opening the Clean-up and Paint-up Campaign.
The program for the two weeks beginning with this
date shall bo :
Sunday Special Services, in All Churches.
Monday and Tuesday Fire Prevention Days.
Clenn basement and attics of rubbish and greasy rags wherever
possible.
Wednesday and Thursday Front Yard Days.
Cut lawns, plant flower beds and lawns, clean walks and gut
tors; exterminate ants.
Friday and Saturday Vacant Lot Days.
Boy Scouts and 8 'ool children clean vacant lots, removing tin
cans, paper and brush. Plow nnd plant garden spots where possible,
Monday and Tuesday Back Yard Days.
.Clean out stables and corrals, rcpnlr fences and sheds, screen
garbage cans. Put out fly traps. Put on screen doors. Complete
various other tasks.
Wednesday and Thursday Weed and Shale Days.
There is no more important work which the campaign cou.d
accomplish than to rid the city of the weed pest. Put shale on side
walks. Friday and Saturday Paint Days.
t Paint up, inside and out, porches, fences, woodwork and porch
chairs.
This is an opportunity for every citizen not only to show
his personal pride, but also his civic pride. No city is at
tractive if it is dirty and littered up. All should be willing to
co-operate in cleaning up not only their own premises, but
in helping to clean up the premises of others where help is
necessary..
Let us all work together to clean up and paint up Cedar
City during the next two weeks, and then keep it that way
throughout the entire year and for many years to come.
Let us make Cedar City not only clean, but beautiful. The
I result will be u cleaner, healthier, happier and more attract
ive community. THOMAS J. JONES,
Mayor of Cedar City.
TEN CLEAN-UP COMMANDMENTS.
1. Remember thy garbage can, to keep it covered.
2. Thou shalt cut the weeds in thj vacant lot, lest it become n hiding
place for old tin cans.
3. Thou shalt bear witness against thy neighbor rubbish heap.
4. Thou shalt clean out the habitation of thy horse.
5. Thou shalt prevent the breeding of the fly, that thy children unto
the third and fourth generation need not swat him.
. Remember thy back yard and alley to keep them clenn. Six dayH
shalt thou labor. If yet the task is not accomplished thou
couldst do worse than continue on the seventh.
-,-2a'AfHU&haU-ove44he-air andunshincrJ4v'fe---!u-8.
Look not upon milk when It cometh from an unclean dairy.
1). Remember thy Clean-up Day and keep it holy.
10. If thou dost harken unto these Hayings to do them, thou Bhalt live
long :n the land, and the "Clean-up" spirit shall last 3G5 days
in the year. '
-- ' .
ORGANIZATION FOR CLEAN
UP AND PAINT-UP CAMPAIGN
Cedar City has been divided into
twonty-two districts and a committee
of three appointed in each to have
general supervision of tho work of
the campaign in their respective dis
tricts. It is expected that each com
mittee will stimulate and encourage
tho citizens of their respective dis
tricts to actively participate in tho
Clean-up and Pnint-up work, and also
assist in tho inspection of premises.
At the end of tho first two weeks of
tho campaign, each district will be in
spected and scored and tho score pub
lished, the cleanest block taking first
place.
Following is tho list of districts and
committees nppointcd for ench:
District No. I. Northeast of creek
Mrs. Nellie Haight, Mrs. John
Spendiove, Daniel Pendleton.
District No. II. The two half
blocks from Mrs. J. G. Webster's to
Samuel Mulliner's Mrs. Lundgrcn.
Mrs. John Holland, Prson Webster.
District ..No. III. From Thomas
Lawrence's to Mary Gower's street
Thomas Lawrence, Maggie May Bess,
Mary Gowcr.
District No. IV. Joseph Arm
strong, Letitiu Smith, Maggie Per
kins. District No. V. Frank Wood, Mrs.
William Sawyer. Mrs. William Smith.
District No. VI. Richard Williams,
Mary Walker, Maria Simkins. '
District VII. From John Dutton's
to Mrs. Sandin's and all south Mrs
Elizabeth Ashdown, Jane Pryor, and
Heber Perry.
District !No. VIII William Mac
farlano, Emily McConnell, Francell
Corry.
District No. IX. John H. Walker,
Mrs. John Nelflon, Mrs. Emily Tucker.
District Nor X. From O. P. W.
Bergstrom's to the Court House, and
all north Georpo K. Uric, Nancy
Walker, Phoebe Bergstrom.
District No. XI. Rev. S. C. Rice.
Mrs. Robert Arthur, Mrs. B. F. Knell
District No. XII John Booth, Mrs
Wm. Corry, Mrs. Wm. P. Hunter.
District No. XIII. From Main St
over to Mrs. Woodbury's nnd all south
William Williams, Rachael Bauer.
Eliza Parry.
District No. XIV. Gomer Cosalett.
Allie Adams, Rebecca Anderson.
District No. XV. S. B. J6nos, Mary
E. Perry, AbbUh Corry.
District No. XVI. Uavld Haight.
Mrs. Lawrence Bess, Mrs. Mary Ann
Corry. .
District No. XVII. Northwest of
lbert Gower's corner Hcnrv Leigh
Blanche Jones, Mrs. Henry Houchcn
District No. XVIII. Jethro Palmer
Ina Leigh, Ella Thorloy.
District No. XIX. Harry Leigh
Bertha Perry, Carrie Bulloch.
District No. XX. Virgil Tollestrup
Mrs. Miles Hunter. Mrs. D. C. Uric.
, DUtrlct No. XXL All the houses in
i
j
Higbce, Nellie Pace, Mrs. R. L. Wrig
ley. General Clean-up end Paint-up
Committee. J. M. B. Higbee. chair
man; Joseph S. Fife, Dewie Thorloy,
Dr. M. J. Mncfarlane, Mrs. L. W.
Jones Mrs. E. H. Rynn, Mrs. Anna
Froyd, Mrs. Ann Gardner.
Publicity Committee. Parley Dal
ley. Mrs. K. L. Jones, Mrs. Ida Mac
farlane, Mrs. Walter Granger, Mrs.
Ann Gardner.
Finance Committee. Dr. M. J.
Mncfarlane. Mrs Thomas Thorloy,
Mrs. John Fuller.
Public Grounds Committee. J. M.
B. Higbee, S. J. Foster, Alex G. Math
eson, Rasa Macfarlane, Sadie Thorley.
Lotitia Smith, Bert Wood
Children's Co-operation Committee.
Jennie Lunt, Hazel Granger, John
Booth, George Poster".
Women's Organization. Anna
Froyd, Caroline Schoppmann, Eliza
beth Haight. Susia Higbee, Ida C.
Macfarlane, Blanch Jones.
Business Men's Committee. John
P. Fuller, E. M. Corry, H. P. Petti-grew.
CO-OPERATION A FABLE.
A mother fly, roosting near a pile of
manure, heard the owner of the prem
ises say to his wife, "This is Clean-up
Week. Tomorrow I'm going to haul
away tho old manure pile, rake the
yard and burn the rubbish. I'm going
to do all In my power to make this a
clean, flyless town."
The fly grinned and winked each
ono of her ten thousand eyes as she
said, "I know your next door neigh
bor, old Skinflint, has no idea of clean
ing up. I'll lay my eggs in his mn
nure pile, but some of my children will
come over and live with you."
And lo, It was so, anil the mother
wept and the doctor grew weary in
body nnd sick at heart as ho rushed
to and fro in his attemDt to save the
lives of poisoned babies.
Next year another fly heard tho
owner of the premises say, "This is
Clean-up Week. This year we ar all
working together. Everybody is clean
ing up and we are going to have a fly
less towrt."
Mother fly grinned a she saw a
new baby in tho house and flow over
into old Skinflint's yard. She roosted
on tho bam door for a moment trying
to get her bearings. The manure pile
wns gono and Skinflint was hard at
work raking hia yard! She cried out
In anguish, "My last friend has be
trayed me," and then fell over dead.
And so, all that summer tho babies
laughed nnd grew fat and the moth
ers smiled, while tho doctor spent a
month in tho hills resting and fishing
and saying, "At last my people have
learned wisdom."
OLATON S. RICE,
At tho request of. Uw Ladies' Uoiue
ft CfeV.
COMMISSIONERS
BOOSTJHE FAIR
County Board Makes Liberal Ap
propriation, $400, to Assist
the Annual Show, v
MONEY NOT TO BE USED
. FOR SPOTING EVENTS
Commissioners Clear Usual Budget of
Business afc Their Regular
Session Last Mondny.
Tho regular meeting of tho County
Commissioners wns held hero last
Monday, lasting all day, and a num
bers of matters of business woro dis
posed of.
Commissioners II. W. Lunt, Wm. A
Evans and R C. Knell. Attorney J.
II. Fifo and Clerk W. Warner Mitch
ell were in attendance
Four hundred dollnrs was apnropri
ated for tho county fair nnd $20 wns
appropriated for traveling expenses
fr the county fair committee.
Chairman Lunt reported that tho
matter of a farm demonstrator had
been discussed with the A. C. nnd
that they had agreed that a suitable
person should be employed, who would
spend his time demonstrntlnjr in tho
county under tho direction of the B
A. C. in connection with tho commis
sioners; $000 of his salary to bo paid
iy,mcounty- Work wW bKln Jne
1, lulu.
Tho Entorpriso Commercial club
was represented at the meeting by a
committee, who wero here in tho in
terests of tho building nnd repairing
of roads In that section of country.
The matters introduced by them worn
Tca until communication could
bo had with tho state road commis
sion. Tho plat of tho Parngonah town was
approved and J. W. Barton. Wm. P.
Baon, Jns. J. Jones, Edw. M. OwenB
and William Edwards wero appointed
as the first town board.
T00,"" Falr Committee ,was
.authorized .to-arraneeLfetO display
spnee at tho stato fair and for the
sending of exhibits from tho county
fair to the stato fair.
Paul Kimball was appointed health
officer nnd registrar of vital statistics
for the Statelino precinct.
Tho road from Bull Flat In tho Par
owan Canyon to the dipping pens at
the head of tho Mammoth was desig
nated as a county highway.
Tho county road supervisor's salary
was set at $3.00 per diem and travel
ing expenses.
An order for $57C.OO worth of cul
verts was given Williams Culvert Co.
of Woods Cross, Utah. Tho culverts
aro to bo used on tho county roads.
PAROWAN NEWS NOTES.
Miss Bell Benson is homo from St.
George, having been, graduated from
the Dixie Academy.
William Hurst, forest ranger, came
over from Panguitch Monday to at
tend to some matters of business.
Caesar Colllstcr is at homo again,
doing aomo prospecting in tho sur
rounding canyons.
Sunt. J. W. Barton, F. C. VnnBurcn.
principal of tho Parowan schools, J.
S. Woodbury and Morgan Richards
went to Paragonah Mondny evening
and held a mass meeting for the pur
pose of discussing the bond election,
which will be held next Monday after
noon. Joseph Fish and family of Snow
flake, Arizona, arrived in Parowan
Wednesday afternoon, mnking the
trip overland. Mr. Fish is leaving
Arizona, and may locato in Utah
Parowan in its enrly history was his
home, at which time he was prominent
in religious circles nnd also held many
prominent positions in tho business
affairs of this then primitlvo town.
He was tho first superintendent of the
Parowan Co-op. M. & M. Co. and
manager of ono of the first sawmills.
At one time he was also jusico of tho
peace, and was ono of our first school
teachers. Mr. Fish has many rela
tives and friends here who wclcomo
him home again.
WARD CHOIRS TO GIVE
ANOTHER GOOD CONCERT
Among other promising and pleas
urable attractions offered tho public
of Cedar City for tho near future, is
a concert by tho tabernacle choir, in
the tabernacle next Sunday evening,
May 7th, commencing at 8:00 o'clock.
Tho program will be high class all
tho way through, and will include the
following numbcre:
Four selections by tho choir.
Two selections from .ladies trio.
Two piano numbors.
Two pieces by tho male quartet.
Thoro will be no charge for admis
sion, but thoro will bo a contribution
box near tho entrance, and all thoso
so disposed will bo given an opportu
nlty of contributing something to
wards tho piano fund. But whether
you contribute or nbt you will be made
, wejcopw and it is the desire of thoso
pU fcuV MttfV W Wuw bv Wttt Alfcdt
f 'i
HEADLINES EOR ' I
COUNTY El ,
Special Premiums Announced by M
Committee for Purpose of tl
Encouraging Farmers. ' M
LIBERAL CASH PRIZES j H
FOR THE WINNERS lH
y H
Spccinl Encouragement Given to the H
Raising of Corn, by Dry Land ' fl
nnd High Water Methods. fl
To show their interest in tho county"
fair which will bo held in this city I H
next fall, the committee in charge 1
have announced some of tho "head- i M
liners" for tho list of premiums in tho H
Agricultural departent, which wo ap-
pond hereto. Tho complete premium 'iH
list Jb to issue early, we aro informed, ' M
nnd will nodoubt bo in tho hands of . M
the general public early enough to ) M
give them an opportunity of shaping M
their operations in such a way as to ? M
successfully compete for the prizes to fl
bo given. tl
TA1 . ,f ol I wi n cr will serve as it guido fiH
until tho full premium list Issues, nnd H
will give an idea of tho sort of prizes ' H
that can bo expected on tho exhibits , iH
this year: M
Best ncre of dry land corn, $50.00. '
fc of corn ra,scd with high H
water, $50.00. ' , M
Best hnlf acre of potatoes, of ono iiH
variety, $25.00. H
Bfist fivo acres of dry land wheat, M
Best draft colt, (ago limit) 595.00. H
Rest beef calf, (ago limit) $25.00. H
Best two pigs, (ago limit) $12.50. H
Best dairy heifer (age limit) $12.50. M
BRANCH A. C. NOTES.
,vPnaAn-the - -- f ifftfffeMlpffr rtH
m Lln-thletiJfe,aJW8ftIte in-'the aliStQBm&ifliJ JtfiM
thct track meet held at St. George 'KIH
Inst Friday. Our team won a large " H4H
majority oyer tho representatives of t ' ' '1
three othor schools Kannb, Murdock I'H
and Dixie high schools. Tills victory " ' JH
entitles our team to go to Salt Lake 'LH
City for tho stato meet, where thoy rTiH
will stand a good chanco of getting W1iH
first. This will bo second big honors ' H
for the B. A. C. in athletics this year. liH
Principal Homer appointed Thurs- i H
day as the annual clean-up day, and 'iH
in consideration of the fact that there H
have already been too many holidays . H
this year, ho combined tho clean-up , H
day and tho "A" day. According to H
his plan, fivo boys from each class H
werp chosen .to go up on tho "A" and I H
white wash it. Tho rest of tho stu- ' H
dents stayed on the campus and , M
cleaned up tho debris that has accum- I H
plated tho past winter. In the even- H
mg, after the work was dono, a.ban- i H
quet wns served by the girls to all tho V H
students and teachers. Afterwards ' H
the time was pleasantly spent in danc- f'H
A very lively and novel party will ) H
be given by the Sophomores and Ju- ; H
niors Friday night. Partners wero I H
chosen Tucsdny after chapel. This 1 H
was donp by bids. Tho girls each had H
to look through a curtain in which H
two small holes wero cut The boys H
on the opposite sido of the curtain bid H
on tho eyes. Tho highest bidder got , H
the girl. This was continued until all H
were auctioned off. Tho party will H
be given in tho auditorium. ' H
On Easter Sunday tho Seniors took i H
a trip into tho Coal Creek Canyon, H
.The pnrty went in wagons, reaching H
their destination about noon. A de- H
liciouB luncheon wns eaten by tho hH
hungry crowd, who then spent tho H
remainder of tho day in ronmlnjr a- T H
round tho hills, plnying games and ' H
visiting the coal mine. In the even- ' iH
ing they returned to town, satisfied H
that they had spent one of the happl- , H
est and jollicst days of their school H
life. $wM
cSP
The list of graduates has for some ME
time been posted, and all aro working rs
hard for the final stretch. Tho list iB ' tfj$
as follows: Lucille Adams, Leonard ' fcJ
Bowen, Vera Bringhnrst, Clyde Bunk- m
or, Orion Jones, Teddy Jones. Martha SjKp
Lnnpford, Bart Farnsworth, Roth l$$
Hnmblin, Lorenzo Griffin, Wilford MA
Griffin. LaMont Hunter. Moroni Uric. , 1 i W&M
Larl Urio, Scott Mntheson, Edward . ajr
Matheson, Nolson Mnrsden, Cnrolino j&i'n
Nelson, Dora Forry, Dora Urle, Annio &n.
Middleton, Thelma Knell, VIda Prince, ' -
Veda Wilkinson, Ruth Higbee, Charles . . JLV5T
Pratt, Leona Jones, Marlon Woolley, I' rU&
Walter Hanson. Mao Lunt, Virgil f hfl
Tollestrup, Delia Corry, Lawrence Snro'
Esplin, Wanda Tollestrup. Bonner ??$
Lambson, Durham Morris, Clair Gard- v f BWi
ner, Rass Gardner, Myrtle Kelsey, 3rH
Fornlelgh Gardner, Alton Neilson,. &
Arthur Lee, Parson Webster, Edgar 5HJ
Petty, John Hamilton, Pratt Tollcs-
trap. )
A treat is in store for tho.people of jRj
Cedar City in the appearance here 'LtflH
tomorow (Snturday) night at' the B, .iB
A. C. auditorium of Moron Olson, the jjBfl
noted render and impersonator. I?o t " I9H
not fail to hear him. Ticket jw tt i ' lHH
't' fl
