mm
t;.
VOLUME 24
TOLEDO, LINCOLN COUNTY, OREGON, FRIDAY, MAY.h, 1916
NUMBER 11
COUNTY NEWS
News of each .Community Gathered each
week by Our Hustling Associate Editors ., :
mCZbZTceTiW Harrlng.says California Is all
nee- I J 71' " ttuu iifiiii uui-ne lines Little Ek
MFWPnDT
- i singing was a treat. The sneo
The Ollie S. went out over the A good, stunt was gotten off by
coumance. lnmgs are reversed nenoio man. mighty well. He is looking after
from the usual way, "His Wife's T .C. F. Llndley is improving his property interstsheSe We
Goife Away", but to the city in-1 John Rankin's place during the were all glad to see i Mr Herrin
stead of the country. Rennrt 1a letter's absence.
WINANT
- vmc K. 1YCIII UUL UYBf U10 " C3"WM To Vil UJ j IQTTq AW&V ' hilt tO
hThiiMAHJ.U.I J M I Ravmr nn. Dn . Al " ' J j
iumouoj evening uuuuu lor ui. uinmuuaiuTO u.1. mt) stead of thA oon ntrv nnnr1a latter 8 ahnenpe innu "
the ColumMa Hver in r close of the exercise, the nr I "e .c..untr- J1??01? 18 iT.A DB?nce- . . .looking so well.
i? i. tt. 'v ... v 4-a j j i " vumiiiH, uuiciue lasx uve it mat mere is Mr. Elmer lhn h nm.. ,. ..! -"""'""J "'sui
Of Prank Foerartv. She will he lumped ud and wanted to sine.
'used as a tow boat on the Colum- "The Old Sexton," the sheriff
bia. She has been here for four thought he was disturbing the
juaia. captain uarner win re- ""''""s wauieu iu uiup mm,
main at Newport. N
The entertainment given Ap
ril 28th by the Senior Class of
the Newport High School was
a brilliant success. The, audi
torium was crowded with nar
HTim T" T T i j . j 1
The big dance that was given
U1 luc wnnery, Saturday n ght
ful
parleying a while the sheriff let
mm go. a gooa many tnougnt
it was a real case of disturbance.
It was original and very amus1-ing.
... . . i a crnnri w fi w noli win ho
LTrcS.rotrt Sf ' Friday evening, May 5th, .
Interest in her nnhHn --11- at ine.Koa ana uun 1UD 1
The money used to build up and " wfm be,an SV
make the schools a success is m"? Icl be rur " shed. The
not heirn.riori w i T foi IIa11 wlU ft brilliantly- lighted
fS'tlSASS and beautifully decorated Re-
of the nation, the public school hn15nt Wi" b?,8e invthe
The public schools of Newport hTa"; TManaSers. Jf-J-"11'
have increased four-fold within F' Jenklns- W. 0. Royse.
o
with Mrs. W. W. Grant, very un
usual. . ,
Mr. Cook of Chitwood passed
through here Tuesday.
WEST YAQUINA
POOLE SLOUCH
have increased four-fold within
tho past ten years. Ten years !
ago the school had one teacher
and thirty pupils, and no h!gh ;
school. Now the public school
has eicht rooms and 250 nunita
and ten teachers. The high! ,. .
school has BO nnnlla with fm.r ! ho said it couldn't rain
teachers. The school buildings. Ea8,:er Sunday a"d tnen not raln
week but after skinnine his shin !an. unusually laree ner rent nf Ann. m. ...m. 188waa well attended; a very laree
severely decided it was to pain- loss of horses, cattle and dogs WtafilZ?
Dyoeatn. The heavenly bodies don last Snnrtnv " "tt". ttllu Irra xa-
fkW. are .11 tryl5 to g Into reV S take on a tewYam"! !c f BeS CkVw.;,"'"
the proceeelon along wltt the this .eason. Thoae winUne cilhl lre.ant aniL Rly
Har an tea. each wlih hi. tmi- am .1(k .u. ..:B a.ung V?.me- body reports a
!f.m tillage. Beheld th. ee correspond SS". ,5 S5 ' 5?? -hc" " "P
- SSSSJa,''" S5--' !iWra has been
the forenoon was i Mr.v.n iinmninnj n
grounds and eauinment are
valued at $50,000. The school
grounds are being put In fine
order and the management of
the school under the direction of
Prof. Artmaa has been a great
success. We also have a plendid
board of trustees.
"His Unkle John" Is-the 'title
of a play given by the High
Mr. nil Mm Tho'mna Barker
and daughters were visitors at
the King ranch Friday.
Mrs. Amy Campbell is moving
Into the Cox house where she
will batch.
Miss Inez Weaver will stay
with her.
Mrs. T. Barker and 'daughter
T.elnnr1 Wrlo'Vi' yr,t n n.l
... v ' o . iciujuuu tUC " .mi, ihidc a i 1 L.tuy , tile
lnaf ft tfia nrAnV f..rti : Tf Vnil nra cfrlr rif pVimrli-n tVin.. rln .J... -
"' " "' on iiuiu vyieguii r- iiiij, uuiiti a iiuo time. , itiQ lorenooii wna Mf v r n,, , ,
Citywherehehasbeenforsome and are longing for a change, taken In getting UAtofSZ
t,mo- iraiseapig. If within the Sen- visiting and at noon dinner was man ir iiS m? d7
John Hanlon came in from 1 ate chamber you would like to served in- the schoo house! 2 fhe 8S, ? W'" W-k
Beaver Creek Wednesday. hold a seat, raise a pig. There's Now talk about eats, well yea f M? and SS Toh on
The-Misses Irene and Jose-a way- raise a pig." The pig Scribe has been to many a big 'son called at Se fiJrriSiif homJ
iSenVd
.and Mrs. John Coovert f CZVS hofh 'IS
T?aowa. n.i , v" i th ,nr.,j tc:-r r"a "l . wn- .mis vicinity on their way to To-
qulna visitors Saturday.
Clifford Phelps came In from
Ona Tuesday and took out a
load of freight.
D. C. Miller Is on the sick list
Va-iln this world and the next, it Is com county! MVS
isaid. Here. In our native land chan, . T ' , , v . "e8lay.
Cast of an Alexander Campbell spent a
fow mlmitao a h TJoll mmnh
UPPER BEAVER
School, clasa nf 1i1r
vJuSraCterS uuuuvco av luo iiwi Aauvu
Jack Sanderson, FYank Sheffield i?8'!." .
rmuue banaerson, nis wire . " 7 o
Mlram Seley bis sister now, having come back
John Van Co'urtlknd. his Unkle fro P? 8nor' whUe bac.k'
John" t.iwi iiv,fi Willard Huntsucker went to
Bert Allison, his sworn j
friend . . .... Roger Simpson i
uiss L.UC7 iiamngton, his
sworn friend's sweethart
Betty Ayers :
Nubbins Goodwin, his foot- -
ball friend 13d Bentley
Miss Slattees. the landlady I
'.Nina Fro;nn
These exercises ' were Inter-j J. M. Bowers and T. Hunt
Bpersed with excellent music by sucker made a trip to Newport
the Newport orchestra; The Friday.
"Senior Class did so well as to re-1 Peter Peterson spent Friday
ccive the congratulations of the at Poole slouch.
entire audience. j Miss Celeste Martin called on
wewpoix is jusuy prouu or ner Mrs. T. Huntsucker Friday after
-public schools and she may also noon.
be proud of how well the Scr.ior j Mrs. A. Peterson and daught
Class acquitted Itself at this en-, ers, Evallna, Hester, Edith and
uuuuiiiuciM. c uui a Hum-1 jusepmne, ana Airs. j. xvi. bow
ber of distinguished visitors pre- ers called at the Vancil home
sent: H. c. Seymour, or the O. Friday. .
A. f! Mr. f!arletnn. nsiHlt.tn.it i nnm in Mr ani xr v n
' 1 ' -" 1 V. . X. VVI ml, B.1U 1U1D, 1. J,,
state supt.; Mrs. Fulk.-soii the . Martin, April 29th, 1916, a nine
uulcu iiiuiai iwtuci ui cumin pounu DOy.
aTifl ahont twenty of the T.lnrnln I f,
county teachers. These teachers 'mart and son, Waldo, and Helen
love to visit the ocean and stroll Phelps, of Ona, visited at the
ufiuu iLa irenumui ucni'iin anu feierson rancn sunaay.
listen to the roar of the Burt as I Miss Mae Huntsucker visited
It beats choppily upon the rock 'at the Vanclll home Sunday. '
bound shores. I Mr. and Mrs. A. Peterson and
By almost a unanimous vote' daughters and Mr. and Mrs. C.
It was decided to hold the next johmart and son, and Jim Hunt
annual Institute at Newport, sucker and Helen Phelns railed
time not set. Seventy-six teach- on the Rhoades family Sunday
via nticuucu luo mom I arternoon.
aU say that It was the most in-) Miss Alice Huntsucker visited
teresting and successful tt any .Mrs. J. M. Bowers Sunday,
ever held in the county. Mr. MiBses .. Aletha. and Alpha
Jones the editor of the Tea -1 ers Rhoades and Peter Peterson
Monthly Is a good factor In help. gpent Monday at the Vancill
aioiig iuc iiiaiiiuiv; wuiil. iQome
& Diirp, liic program. 1 consisting I Johnle Emerson and Tlenrv
we are pretty well acaua nted of on ranUoti j j.B Uu " erson a. a A1?!11
TiSL-St! bav aydancCeysS!
A few mn Hoo- kJv.h tn ,ot f v "'a r .1 " """"" '"Bul- very DOUV come
. - . e-- "us ouuugraaH was me main actor 'and heln n rlnn.o
'X YU2Z Tii .fc r.a!?!a And then after the Vgram Mlff Sifc reports that
CUJUJU.B mo iiceuuiii,i"6. u oiiuiL u jruu nave a iuiiB- came me Dail Kame between the her ann la nnlt. ill ,ik n.niitw.
lngto become a millionaire, Little Elk schools 1 0 ' oulu-
. 7. f r Bv i. , reai Iun commenced. . Ther
ufiuiiiur nas ueen marKeiea. were rolls and tumbles sIId 1
uo i.v-c ui wuui vi mo- aim suaes, strikes and no strl-
uuir maue me Bueanne macmne kpr nita ond miakifx --j
I . w 1 .iiioiiiLo aiiu tui
laugh. kinds of fun fnr nlrl onrl
I. , At the close of the game the
FIECLES CREEK . LITTLE ELK, 8core Btood 12 to 0 In favor of!
i . J . tne uttle Elk schoL Take it all
in all it was a day well spent.
vacation days brinsr.
Mr. and Mrs. Chas Plough
man and daughter, Mrs. Delia
Gibbs. went to Toledo Tuesday
on business.
ONA
.
Yaquina yesterday. Mr. Boies returned to Cor- Summer time Is here at last ! Tne Little Elk grangi
Chas. Brown and W. D. Rob- jvallis Saturday, with Mr. Ander-, There will be rushing business entertain at the next
erts made a trip to Newport son, whe has been visltlne him with eardena in thin vapinitv if meeting of the Eddwille
CVIffaw I at Rll Dn r Tilof Yf i-vim t l 1J 1. .LI. l . i . nn tYln aaiMml C 1
. a sua .
Mr. Parks has been nlnwlnv
,for A. W. Webher several dava
lately.
Joe Llssy has a new separator,
The Little unW nnV " . w,,u a mommy cream
nterlanT t n 'k coming m8 way soon.
icBuitti I uur Koaa Overseer.
i.i.
vlRltlnir him. with trotvlan. In tht vc.LIi. it meeting Of the KHHwIllo or-o r. era I . ' . WI .
- . ...v bk.uv.ub vuio tuuh; a. . "6" .view ui men ana learns naa been
0 , iwuvii. , ima guuu weaiuer continues. " . . " "-"i,v, uuiuiua; in iuay.at work on the nil south nf the
- - ouuiuuu ui .ur. ouiuy weni 10 me vauey " xom. iu enter-weaver Creek bridce on the
ni ir rvi z. F-fm iiuui me uuu uay last weeK wnere ne in- a luuuiuaie com-1 county road. This has been
t w -o w isu- bcuuo win mug luia buiiimcr. f miaict a cai l .
The number of teacher in the
comity is 93 and the number of
tiistncis i& ana irom me im
Mr. and Mrs. H. G. Rhoadea
and children, Floyd, Virgel and
Hilda made a trip to Newport
proved coudition of school build-. Monday
Ings and school grounds we Henry shermer and Johnnie
Vnow the people have not beon ( Emerson called at the Peterson
Idle. The car of progress lou t ; home Tuesday,
stop, it keeps going right along, j N. Huyett. made a trip to
and If you don't get aboard you Po0ie glough Tuesday.
-Will be left. I Pauline and JeRRle VanHll
visited Evallna and Hester Peter
son Tuesday.
RIVERSIDE V
fn Tuesday evening Aav 2.
the Women of Woodcraft gave
a Five Hundred party at the Elk
Hall in honor of the W. O. W.
of Newport. About 50 Invitations
-were issued and about per
sons were present. Tables and
chairs were arranged in the
room so everyone could be made
roiii fort able. Music, dancine.
nnnl iilnvlllir. fllld StorV tolllllE ' ervnd weather
wore the aniUBcinents of the j Mrs W. W. Grant of Harlan
evo'nlng. It was no place for a I was visiting here Friday,
crank or a grouchy person. All I Several were very much
wanted and had a good time, frightened when a horse ran
The music won under the dlrec- away Friday, with Florence and
tlon of Mrs. Miller. Noma Calkins and ended up in
, . 1 . nl. .1 u n ... n ., I M lini-K iiiIha fA-kAA IIihaixImm !.!.
TUG bCuriei Dill, a mania .uv a imiu niiuicntu, luiuwiiiK luill
on at the Midway, May 7th, Tor girls over into the field
the benefit of the W. 0. W. : were seriously hurt
Every one busy with their car-
dens taking advantage of the
Neither
ry Garrison. Quite a feather in
our cap we think.
Frank Mulvany went to Tole
do , Tuesday, via Blodgett, to
attend to road matters concer
ning his district.
May Day and May Flowers
made haDDV the hours tn the
children given.
Mr. Claud Lemon has rented at C. H. Wakeflelds. This will
the old Dee Shirley place and be one ot the best entertain-
nas moved on to it and is busy ever given at tne new
. X . 1 a hall A 1m Innlnu I.
puituig m crops, tviauu says " nuimooiuii wm oe iree
he will have a bumper crop this doors will be open to the public
M. S. Herring of California ' invited to attend. A cordial
but formerly of Little Elk. la invitation is extended to other
visiting old friends here. Mr. grangers. Come and have a
.0 good time.-
Days You'll Never Forget
SALADO
HfY JlfAfW THE
PRjCUS IS ALU
X .'
county road.
bad piece of road for a long time
but Bud has done a flue Job of it
this time and it will be a great
improvement to the road, in
fact all of his work is substan
tial. I guess Chauncy Ohmart
takes the cake for rapid work.
He dumped a yard of dirt, re
placed his dumn boards and wna
started for another load in
seventeen seconds. Going some
isn't it?
Weather fine, every body busy
with but little time to look for
news,.
o
FIECLES CREEK
Hie DAv, y00 A$n,e(i
WAT6 0. Pcn.T $,
Et.e-PMAwr.A.W0 By TS
TIME ITS THiRVT 3
C. A. Overlander has a crew
of men at work on this road to
open it for travel this year.
Now for the briden nnrl wa win
be ablo to get to water trans
portation anu tne worlds mar
ket. Road Master Porter Watt hero
one day last week looklne- m
.u .
me new roaa.
Geo. Hodees the alio nnrl onw.
nun man had business. In To
ledo the fore part of the week.
Roy Coon, tho Big Elk don
key puncher, was tightening
the line Elk City wards, Satur
day. Deaken J. F. Fisher was at
'.o one day last week on
bi .ess.
Dell Hodges, the famous mar
tin trapper, says ho will trap
no more at Harlen. He says the
fur is rather short there n limit a
Why?
Jim Hodges, the mule-foot
hog man. Is dolnz a lot of fenr.
ing, getting ready for an In
crease In the family thnt la
the hog family.
Edward Bryant the not at n
iklrig up Mill Creek was visiting
at the Rush Spring Ranch last
: Sunday.
Mrs. Mary Hodges returned
home Saturday, after a weeks
stay at Toledo.
We are aorry to learn of Mr.
Collins quitting the Leader, but
wish him the best of success
whereever he goes.
We hope Brother Web's whis
kers have grown out again as he
illicit get his face scorched if
they haven't, by tackling the
news.
0-"
Several hlzh cradn 1 .(.lutein
..... . . . .
i iiiB.uu nun luivuB, reuuy ior three cood altrhHv w
light service, for sale. Write, or Shin four Si a t aJ?
)) Iter call at Raddant Ranch. Si ZiJJ.l
wnuii, wood. Corva i h.
Isaac Boles returned to Cor
vallis, Satuiday,
Mrs. R. E. Pn rt In rf'd kti,!,-
iuen Dawyer, is VISIUng hor.
A gentleman from Colorado
was looking for government land
this week.'' , .
R. E. Darting and son, Eskolt,
came home Sunday.
Picnics are quite the fad. An
Easter Sunday party from Har
lan discussed hen fruit tn the
queen's taste among the sylvan
woous oi i .egics creek.
Mr. and Mrs. Frank Davis,
Clarence and Wilbur D.ivla M
Brlggs and son Edward were
here Sunday.
. Vernon Ynnnir ITon.
and Henry Martin were plowing
ior a. iwcbsi, u. I' . laindlcy nd
Isaac Boles this week. '
Frank Mulvanv mnde n ti In tn
Sweet Home and Racks Creek
In the interest of good roads.
There's a hit of tnlk nf n hlr
blow-out on Fiegles Cieek, July
4 th. Who'd a thought It.
I.afayotte Sharp visited Mr.
Llndley.
o .
3DANCE
EVERY SATURDAY NIGHT
At I 0 0 F Building
Dancing Commences 9 P. M.
Good Music Cood Floor
For Sale
