- - --S i i SH
i , M
(Today's Metal Prices : TlL A f -VA CLrV-ww-v - I 4 P. M. CiTV EDITION I I
j:T.rx!T U 1 1 P U 7 U U Tl lll III! ttXl! fnm pages I
"""" FEARLESS, INDEPENDENT, PROGRESSIVE NEWSPAPER. ; I
Forty.slxth Year-No. 108. sPrIce Five Cent,. QGDEN CITY, UTAH; FRIDAY EVENING, MAY 5, 1916. Entered as Second Class Matter at the Pottofflcc, Ogden, Utah. I H
GERMAN NOTE DISPLEASES
Demand Is Made on United States j I
to Force Great Britain to Terms I
UNITED STATES MAY ASK FIR
; COPY OF SUBMARINE ORDERS
I Previous Instructions to German Undersea Commanders to
vAv t Be Compared With New Ones Secretary Lansing De
clares Mistakes in Submarine Warfare Not Admis-.
.' ,v, sible Will Discuss Matters Further With Ger-
J$j.L many After Abandonment of Present
j&Ss ' Practices General Opinion
H. That Country Must Wait for
1 f$? j Future Developments.
v;', ' .
Washington, May 5. Secretary Lansing said it
was possible that the United States might ask Germany for an
official copy of the previous orders to submarine commanders,
which never have been communicated to the state department,
so that they might be compared with the new orders described
in the note.
Mr. Lansing would not discuss the note except to say that
mistakes in submarine warfare were not admissible and to
reiterate that the United States was willing to discuss the con-
j duct of submarine warfare with Germany after the latter had
abandoned the present practices.
Washington, May 5. President Wll- c
son and the cabinet went carefully i
"Jfcover the German note as transmitted
in news dispatches from Berlin.
-! A first feeling that it was unsatis- a
factory was somewhat lessened by the
text of the new orders to submarine t
I commanders although it was foreseen i
I that the reference to immunity for i
I ' "merchant ships recognized by inter- i
I national law" might admit of some
I dispute of Interpretation.
So much depends upon words and
their shades of meaning involved in
) translation from German to English c
' that no decision can be attempted un
, til the official text is in the president s
hands. i
Official Text Coming. j
, ', Ambassador Gerard cabled today
that he had started it on the cables
last night. It ought to be In Wash
ington tonight or early tomorrow. j
Two vlewB are current in official
circles. One was that Germany has
declared her intention of abandoning .
her "present methods of submarine
' warfare" as demanded by the presl
i dent, and that the American govern
ment might have to wait to see whoth
or the abandonment will be effected.
The other was that the United
! SUites, having already attempted to
j have Great Britain give up its lnter
' ference with neutral commerce and
having told Germany that it cannot
discuBS with her its negotiations with
Great Britain, has no course but to
break off relations with Germany.
General Tone Unfavorable.
While the general tone of the Ger
man note created an unfavorable im
pression, officials took the Pf-,on,
that the language was Immaterial, u
i the guarantees were Teal.
I Germany's declaration that she has
issued now orders to submarine com
! wanders not to attack without warn
ing "merchant vessels recognized b
international law" was considered tho
1 chief point. The Oeroaj vie of
, merchant vessels as defined In its i de
claration of Feb. 8 of its Purposeto
' sink armed ips without warning
and the American view as defined Jn
the armed ship memorandum made
,4 public recently, differ in several
"tome officials believed t for this
reason the controversy ; had n come
actSn would determine the course of
the United States. nVftrn.
The refusal of "ie Gorman govern
ment openly to ndmltMr!da 0ly ln
' the Sussex was considered only in
eldpntnl to the main Ibbuo.
. TJnW President Wilson himself dc
I cldeshethor the note Is acceptab
there will be no announcement of the
i Secretary losing met all inquiries
with this reply: ..
t "I cannot discuBS it at all at urn
l i" the other members of the cabi-
u?d aefter studying the offl-
I CialtXtNo Hasty Action.
At tho state department, after toe
5 cabinet meeting, It was stated that no
I "hasty" action would be taken on the
German note, and that in view of Its
l ngth and tho necessity of digesting
f it carefully, it was "Improbable" that
J any decision would be reached before
&&? next week.
'"T' Congress received the note quietly
1 Aylth members expressing a variety
of views. Senators of the foreign re-
iJatlons committee -uniformly refrain-
ed Irom comment. Others thought tne
reply favorable; some were doubtful
of tho conditions apparently attach
ed and some others thought It has not
advanced the negotiations toward
settlement at all. On the surface
there were no Indications of activity
in the group which has opposed the
president's policy of pressing his de
mands. Members of the cabinet . were un
communicative, all saying that no fur
ther steps would be taken until the
official text was placed before Presi
dent Wilson.
The private view of officials ap
parently was that the new orders to
submarine commanders apparently
met the demands of the United
States unless an interpretation were
placed on them to lead to attack on
merchant vessels armed for defensive
purposes. The general tenor of the
German note, however, was consider
ed unsatisfactory.
As the cabinet members left the
White House several indicated their
view that the United States would
have to wait and see whether the
new orders to submarine commanders
were carded out.
Berlin, by wireless via Sayvllle, N.
y May 5. Following is the text of
the note of the German government
In reply to the American note re
specting submarine warfare, delivered
on Thursday by Gottlieb von Jagow,
the foreign secretary to American
Ambassador Gerard:
"The undersigned, on behalf of the
Imperial German government, has the
honor to present to His Excellency,
the ambassador of the United States
Mr James W. Gerard, tho following
replv to the note of April 20 regard
ing the conduct of German submarine
warfare. . , . ,
"The German government handed
over to tho proper naval authorities
for early investigation evidence con
cerning the Sussex as communicated
Dv the government of tho United
States. Judging by the results that
tho investigation has hitherto yielded,
; the German government Is alive to
the possibility that the ship mentlon-
' cd in the note of April 10 as having
.t been torpedoed by a German subma.
J rine is actually Identical with the
s Sussex.
i no uoiuiuu ov,,..- - 1,
reserve further communication on the
matter until certain points are ascer
tained, which are of decisive Import
ance for deciding tho facts of the
case. Should it turn out that the
commander wa6 wrong In assuming
the vessel to be a man-of-war, the
Gorman government will not fall to
draw the consequence resulting there
from. Statements of United States.
"In connection with tho case of the
Sussex, the government of the United
StateB made a series of statements,
the gist of which is the assertion that
the Incident is to be considered but
one Instance of a deliberate discrim
inate destruction of vessels of all
sorts, nationalities and destinations
by German submarine commanders.
"The German government must em
phatically repudiate tho assertion.
The German government, however,
thinks it of little avail to enter into
details in the present stage of affairs,
more particularly as the government
of the United States omitted to sub
stantiate tho assertion by reference
to conoreto facts.
Restrictions on Submarines.
"The Gorman government will onl5
state that it has imposed far-reaching
restraints upon the use of the sub
marine weapon, solely in considera
tion of neutrals' interests, in spite of
the fact that these restrictions are
necessarily of advantage to Ger
many's enemies. No such considera
tion has ever been shown neutrals by
Great Britain and her allies."
"The German submarlno forces
have had, in act, orders to conduct
the submarine warfare in accordance
with the general principles of visit
and search and the destruction of
merchant vessels recognized by In
ternational law, the sole exception be
ing the conduct of warfare against en
emy 'trade carried on enemy froight
ships encountered In the war zone
surrounding Great Britain. With re
gard to these no assurances have ev
er been given to the government of
the United States. No such assur
ances are contained in the declara
tion of February 8. 1916.
"The German government cannot
admit any doubt that these orders
were given, or are executed in good
faith. Errors actually occurred. They
can In no kind of warfare be avoided
altogether. Allowances must be made
in the conduct of naval warfare
against an enemy resorting to all
kinds of ruses, whether permissible or
illicit- ,',., f
"But apart from the possibility of
errors, naval warfare just like war
fare on land, implies unavoidable dan
gers for neutral persons and good en
tering the fighting zone. Even if
cases where the naval action Is con
fined to ordinary torms of cruiser war
fare, neutral persons and goods re
peatedly como to grief.
"The German government has re
peatedly and explicitly pointed out
the dangers 'from mines-that have led
to the loss of numerous ships.
"The German government has made
several proposals to the government
of the United States in order to reduce
to a minimum for American traveler?
and goods the inherent dangers of
naval warfare. Unfortunate y, the
government of the United States de
cided not to accept the proposals. Had
it accepted, the government of the
United States would have been instru
mental in preventing the greater part
of the accidents that American citi
zens have met with In the meantime.
Germany Stands By Offer.
"The German government still
stands by Its offer to come to an
agreement along these lines.
"As the German government repeat
Pdlv declared, It cannot dispense with
the use of submarines In tne conduct
of warfare against enemy trade. The
German war government has now de
cided to make a further concession,
adapting methods of submarine war
to the interests of neutrals.
"In reaching this decision the Ger
man government Is actuated by con
siderations wtiich are above the level
of the disputed quesUon.
Government For Humanity.
"The German government attaches
no less Importance to the sacred prin
ciples of humanity than the govern
ment oT the United States. It again
fully takes Into account that both gov
ernments for many years co-operated
In developing International law in con
formity with these principles, the ulti
mate object of which has always been
to confine warfare on sea and land to
armed forces of belligerents and safe
guard, as far as possible, non-combatants
against the horrors of war. But,
although these considerations are oT
great weight. they alone, would not,
under presont circumstances, have de
termined the attitude -of the German
government. For, in answer to the
appeal by the government of tho Unit
ed States on behalf of the sacred prin
ciples of humanity and international
law, the German government muBt re
peat once more, with all emphasis,
that It was not the German, but .the
British government which ignored all
accepted rules of International law
and extended this terrible war to the
lives and property of non-combatants,
having no regard whatever for the In
terests and rights of neutrals and non
combatants that through this method
of warfare have been severely injured.
'an self-defense against the illegal
conduct of British warfare, while
fighting a bitter struggle Tor national
existence. Germany had to resort to
the hard but effective weapon of sub
marine warfare.
"As matters stand, the German gov
ernment 'cannot but reiterate regret
that the sentiments of humanity
which the government of the United
Stntes extends with such fervor to the
unhappv victims' of submarine warfare
are not extended with tho same
warmth of feeling to many millions of
women and children who, according
to the avowed Intention of the British
government, shall bo starved, and
' who. by sufferings shall force the vlc
i torlous armies of the central Powers
Into Ignominious capitulation. The
1 German government, in agreement
' with the German people, falls to un
. doratand this discrimination, all tho
moro aB it has repeatedly and explicit
ly declared itself ready to ubo tho sub
marine weapon In strict conformity
; (Continued on Page 9)
DESTROY ARMS
AND AMMUNITION
British Military Authorities
Kept Busy in Dublin Only
One Shot Heard During
Night.
SENTENCE MORE REBELS
Some Commuted From Death
to Penal Servitude of Eight
to Ten Years.
Dublin, May 5, 11:16 a. m. Only
one shot has been heard in Dublin
since late last night. Tho military
authorities continue to destroy large
quantities cf arras and ammunition.
Joseph Plunkett, court martialled
and shot to death by order of the Brlt
ish government in Dublin Thursday
was one of the seven orlganal signers
of the proclamation of the Irish pro
visional government When Patrick
H. Pearse, provisional president, and
Thomas J. Clarke and Thomas Mac
Donagh met a similar fate, it was
announced In cable dispatches that of
the remaining four signers of the pro
clamation Plunkett and James Con
nollv were in prison and that S. Mac
Diarmad and E. Ceannt had not been
accounted for. MacDIarmad, who is
a cripple and in feeble health, and
Ceannt and James Connolly are ap
parently still alive.
Plunkett was a member ot the Cath
olic branch of the famous Irish fam
ily of that name,
"William Pearse was a brother of
Patrick H. Pearse. He was a sculp
tor and was once a tutor in the Irish
Boys' school, of which his brother was
head master.
Edward Daly and Michael O'Hanra
han, also among the rebels killed yes
terday, have not played prominent
roles In the revolutionary movement,
so far as cable dispatches Indicated.
Dublin, May 4, 11:05 a. m. Four
more rebel prisoners were sentenced
to death by court martial and shot
this morning. This was announced
officially. The men are Joseph Plunk
ett, Edward Daly, Michael O'Hanra
han and William Pearse.
Fifteen other rebels were sentenced
to death, the official statement adds,
but later their sentences were com
muted to ten years penal servitude.
The death sentence of another prison
er was communted to eight years pen
al servitude. Two rebels were sen
tenced to ten years in prison.
nn
COMMENTS ON
GERMAN NOTE
Press Notes Generally Con
sider Kaiser's Reply Evasive
and Leaving Room for .
Doubt. ,
PROBLEM NOT SOLVED
New York Sun Sees Germany
as SH11 World-defiant-
Cleveland Paper Well
Pleased.
Baltimore News Tho United
States demanded the establishment of
a certain status quo. Germany has
established It, How long she can or
will maintain it is another question.
But, for the time being we are left
nothing to complain of.
Chattanooga, Tenn. News: The
German note Is about as satisfactory
as could be expected. Tho immedi
ate issue Is whether or not the con
cessions made are sufficient. We be
lieve they will cause a better feeling
among the American people.
Pittsburg Chronicle-Telegraph So
far as words go Germany has grant
ed our main contention, but, If ber
action Is only tomporary and depends
on the future course of Great Britain,
the situation Is one frought with
grave peril to our friendly relations.
Louisville Times The unofficial
text of the German note serves no
tice that the United States must
either force England to end her
blockade of foodstuffs or acquiesce
In a contlnuanco of Germany's meth
ods of submarine warfare along tho
lines already laid down. .,
Providence Bulletin It (the note)
is a brutal mockery of the wounds
again and again inflicted upon us.
It is a series of studied insults ad
ded to a long inventory ot injuries.
The president must prove that the
lofty sentiments he has so often reit
erated are not empty words.
Des Moines Capital A careful read
ing of the note will disclose nothing
new. It I? written in rather
an unfriendly and ip wholly critical
spirit. " The note 13 au of
fense against the Intelligence and
dignity of the United States, but it
affords no occasion for suspending
diplomatic relations or going to war.
Milwaukee Evening Wisconsinian
In effect the note seems to be a re
iteration that practice shall be made
to conform with professions in the
matters concerned.
El Paso Herald Germany v presents
a strong case and her criticisms of
our government are not wholly un
merited, but in view of the attitude
of President Wilson it Is useless for
Germany to condition her new ruling
upon our compelling England to ob
serve the law; therefore, a break
seems Inevitable.
Pueblo (Colo.) Star-Journal The
note cannot be other than unsatisfac
tory to the United States. A diplo
matic break seems Inevitable.
Colorado Springs Telegraph First
impressions of the German note lead
to the feeling that months of diplo
matic exchanges between Washing
ton and Berlin have failed to bring
uboutra-'fin'al' solution of the subma
rine issue.
Tucson (Ariz.) Citizen Germany
has not declared an abandonment of
her present methods of submarine
warfare. She has not even admitted
those methods. The reply is equiva
lent to passports for Von Bernstorff.
The concessions do not befog the is
sue. Albuquerque Evening Herald The
German answer seems to leave no
course open but to sever diplomatic
relations.
The Cleveland Waechter and Anzel
ger The German answer is that of
the strong, whose conscience is clear,
who wlBhes peace without fearing
war. It puts the final say up to Mr.
Wilson and places before him the
chance once more to bo the mediator
who brings the warring nations to
gether The decision should be sim
ple. Unfortunately, there is room
for doubt which alternative the presi
dent will choose.
New York Evening Sun We cor
dlally hope our government may find
in this note the solution of our own
difficulties, but as a general indlca
tion as respects tne prospecia ui
peace it fills us with gloom. Plainly,
Germany la not in the humor yet to
heed the counsels of wisdom or hu
manity. She is still world-defiant.
New York Globe The reply is thus
not to be accepted as a settlement
of the matters in dispute between the
United States and Germany. There
is no compliance or substantial com
pliance. No choice would
thus Beem open to our government,
but to carry out Its declaration of in
tention to Bever diplomatic relations.
Oakland (Cal.) TribuneThe re
sponse of the German foreign office
is not in'graceful form, but this may
generously be obscured under the
transcendant fact that the war cloud
Is dispelled. Germany has yielded,
conditionally at least, which removes
the danger of an Immediate rupture
of diplomatic relations.
Walla Walla (Wash.) Bulletin The
reply of Germany again sidesteps the
main issue and puts up to this gov
ernment the question of severing of
diplomatic relations. It appears that
Germany has not met the president's
demands and that diplomatic rela
tions will be severed unless he "backs
down."
on
NORWEGIANS BLOW
UP ZEPPELIN L-20
Copenhagen, via London, May 5,
7:35 a. m. Tho military authorities
at Stavanger, Norway, blew up the
Zeppelin L-20 yeBterday when it be
gan to roll dangerously In a strong
wind. Soldiers fired upon tho air
ship from a distance of sixty yards.
The zeppelln exploded with great de
tonation and was burned.
The L-20 was one of the squadron
of Zeppelins which raided tho east
coaBts of Englaud and Scotland Tues
day night. On her return journey she
was blown ashore on the Norwegian
coast, hurled against a mountain side
and wrecked. :
BRITISH DECIDE TO RELEASE I
MEN TAKEN FROM 11 S. LINER I
Thirty-eight Germans and Austrians Taken From American H
Steamship China to Be Given Freedom Immediately H
Germans Repulsed by French After Violent Bom- H
bardment West of the Meuse Many Air Bat- H
ties Are Fought British in Lively H
Fighting Near Arras. H
London, May 5, '4:59 p. m. The British government H
has decided to release the 38 Germans and Austrians who.were
taken from the American steamship China. H
The release of these men will be ordered immediately,
Berlin, May 5, wireless to Sayville. Twenty-six aero-
planes were shot down by German aviators on the western
front in April, according to official figures given out here to- i
day. The German losses last month amounted to 22 aero- j
planes. H
Berlin, May 5, wireless to Sayville. A battle in the
Adriatic between Italian and Austrian warshihps and aircraft
is reported in a statement received here today from the Austro-
Hungarian admiraltyJThe statement also says Austro-Hun- j
garian airships have raided the Italian city of Ravenna. -
Paris, May 5, noon. West of the
Meuse the Germans yesterday even
ing strongly attacked French posi
tion north of Hill 304, says the of
ficial statement this afternoon, but
they were repulsed along the whole
front attacked, except in one or two
points in the advanced trenches.
An attempted attack on the trench
es at Cappy, south of the Sommo, the
statement adds, completely failed.
East of the Meuse and In the
Woevre there was an Intermittent
bombardment.
The text of the statement follows.
"South of the Somme a coup de
main attempted by the enemy on our
trenches In the region of Cappy was
completely checked.
"West of the Meuse, after bom
bardment of extreme violence, the
Germans at the close of the day yes
terday launched a strong attack up
on our positions north of Hill 304.
They were repulsed along the whole
front attacked, but gained a footing
at some points in our advance
trench. ..
"East of the Meuse and in the
TirT.Q 11PT-A was intermittent artn-
lery activity.
"The night was relatively calm on
the rest of the front."
Austrians Report Air Raid.
Berlin, May 5. Wireless to Sayyllle.
The statement from tho Austrian
war office dated May 4, received to
day, says regarding the Italian front.
"In tho night an airship of the en
emy crossed our lines at tho mouth
oTthe Wippach. dropped bombs and
continued its raid northward In the
Idrla valley to Laibach and Saltacl .
On its return our artillery and av -ators
attacked the airship, which took
tire. Eventually, the airship fell to
the earth near tho Gorlzla drill
Sounds. Its four Inmates were dead.
"Austro-Hungarian avlatora drop
ned a number of bombs In Italian
barracks near Vilese. and after violent
fighting in tho air returned unbarm-
ed."
The statement follows:
"On tho afternoon of May 3 an aus
tro-Hngarlan naval air squadron bom
barded0 with good effect the barracks
and a sulphur factory at Renna
Flames were observed at the sulphur
factory and a railroad station. iue
aeroplanes were shelled heavily by
?wo batteries of anti-aircraft guns, but
returned unharmed.
At tho same time a reconnolterlng
squadron of torpedo boats mot .four o
the enemy's destroyers southwest o
the mouth of the Po. A combat at
long range ensued, but It was without
effect, as the superior speed of the
enemy's warships did not permit ap-m-oach
to them. Several aeroplanes
joined the combat and fired with ma
chine guns at the enemy's ships.
French Occupy Greek Town.
Athens, Greece, May 5, via Paris,
1115 a. m. Much significance Is at
tached by Greeks generally to the oc
cupation by French troops of tho
Greek town of Fiorina, owing to Its
location being only 18 miles south of
Monastlr.
Berlin War Report.
Berlin, May 5, wireless to Sayville.
The capture of several French
trenches southeast of Haucourt on
the Verdun front was announced to- M
day by the war office. H
Repeated French attacks against a M
German position west of Dead Man H
hill broko down. H
The text of the war office state- IH
ment follows: H
Lively Fighting on British Front. H
"Western front: Lively fighting con- M
tinues on the British front between M
Armentlerres and Arras, Near Gi- jH
venchy-en-Gohelle there were hand H
grenade combats about a mine crater M
in which the enemy had obtained a M
temporary footing. IH
"South of the Somme German pa- J IB
trols entered a position of the enemy, ) H
repulsed a counter attack and cap- j jH
tured one officer and forty-flvo sol- IH
diers. M
Germans Take French Positions. jH
"West of the Meuse (Verdun M
front) German troops entered French H
defensive positions on tho salient JM
west of Avocourt which had been H
evacuated by the enemy in conse- M
quence of the German fire. These M
positions were destroyed and aban- M
doned, according to the plan. H
"Rrmthenst of Haucourt several H
French trenches wero captured and jH
prisoners were taken. Repeated at- H
tacks of the enemy against our posl- M
tion west of Dead Man hill broke JM
down completely. jl
"East of the Meuse the artillery ac- m
tlons were Intense, especially during . M
the night. I M
British Biplane Captured. H
"A British biplane with French IH
signs was captured intact by us on H
the coast near the Dutch frontier. M
The inmates escaped to neutral torri- ( H
torv- 1
"A German aerial squadron drop- m
ped many bombs with success on tho H
railroads in Niblette and Auve val- H
leys and also on the aeronautic sta- m
tion at Suippes." H
oo H
VILLA LOCATED ; I
BY PERSHING I
American Motor Supply Train H
Is Held Up by . Carranza H
Customs Guards j M
El Paso, May 5. At General Fun- H
ston's temporary headquarters here, H
it was said this afternoon, a message , H
had been received from Goneral Per- jH
shlng in which he stated that he H
thought he had located Villa. IH
Columbus, N. M. May 5. Thirty Vm
Carranza customs guards stopped an jH
American motor supply train at Las m
Palomas, eight miles south of the H
border today, and ordered the com- H
mander to remove American flags JM
flying from tho cars. Tho Mexicans, IH
who had been celebrating "CInco de H
Mayo" the Mexican national holiday, H
Informed him American flags could m
not be allowed on Mexican soil. No H
attention was paid to the demand and H
no trouble resulted. H
. oo H
Ceremony was Invented by a -wise jH
man to keep fools at a distanoe. ', H
