Tllr. ii KA I II I. II. 1
rlf-'
' Friday fnlrj rUinjr temper A?
j lure. i
J .J. fcj. J J J A J J. J
J fra I't I ad iKlfliwlH M 4 fe 4 ledger u uytz H
I.! I fliiMLPMy 4 T' W?m medium that briars rcsalts. Ow . jrftH
I! I 11 11 1. 1 . 1U1 ll'iliV' W II II I I 'J' rales aro with circa- JHH
SpRfllilHK!'' S lat,on' Ilook" Pcn (0 J"PelIon. 'V
A A A A A 'IB
;JH
t
r
i
J
it?.
MAYSVILLE, KENTUCKY, FRIDAY, MAY 5, 1010. QNE COPY ONE CENT. H
senior classplay tonight, nirvrimr niunnirn liiliiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiimiinHiMi Hi
. ...nL j-muuixu g STRAWBERRIES S H
111(1 PARADE ON 'OPENING DAY.
Arrangements nro being mndo by
tlio baseball oluclals for n bis pnrndo
liorc on tho opening day of tlio base
ball season. Tho River City Hand of
rortsmoutli, nnd the Mnysvlllo Band
will dlarriiiip d music for tlio oc
cnsilon. Tlio lino c.f mnrch nnd other
iartlrt'!nrc liavp not yet been com
pleted. A revlvnl will begin at tho Apostolic
Holiness church Mny 5. Good music
and shiRlnc Kvcrylibdy welcome.
I I I II lll-J UII I1 11 "
MASON COUNTY COURT.
Tho followlnc buslneBs wna trans
actrtl Thursday in tho Mnaon County
Court:
Miss Agnes Fox, named In the last
will of Patrick Fox, deceased, na exec
ittrix. appeared In court and qualified
as such without surety as was request-
cd In tho will.
Charles U Daly was appointed gunr
dlnn to Minnie Lea Wilson, n minor un
Icr 14 years of age, nnd ho qualified as
such with W. Hall Strodo as surety
on bond.
THE RIGHTKIND OF
WALL PAPER
Beautifies the home. We have it.
Strictly new goods. Prices
from 4c up at
HENDRICKSON'S
Wall Paper Paints
Harbeson Garage
Will Put Your Car in
Good Order For
Spring
Parts and Sup
plies Gars rFor Hire
Good
SYEAR
lMtOKOhK
Fortified Tires
FORTIFIED AGAINST
RinCuti by (ho NoRlm-Cut feature.
Slowout. by tho "On-Air" cure.
Loots Tre.di by many rubhrr rlvtll.
Im.curity by 120 braided pluno wire..
Puncture, and SUlddini by tlio tloubl
thlclc AU-Weatber tread.
OUR EASTER SEASON
LUMBER DELIVERIES
are very heavy this year. Building
operations of all kinds are In full
suing and we are gottlnc more than
our share of lumber orders, especially
from tho most experienced nil expert
builders. They know goo 3 lumber and
lumber values. That's why they do
their buying here. There should be a
bint in that fact for you.
The Mason Lumber Company
Corner Limestone aid Second Streets.
1'honi S19.
A. A. McLaughlin. L. II. DetuB.
TIRES!
Kelly,
Miller,
American,
U. S. Brander.
Bought before the advance.
Prices right. Big Stock. If
you need tires, here's your
Opportunity.
MIKE BROWN
"THE SQUARE DEAL MAN"
LOWEST PRICES OF THE YEAR
4 cant good Corn ouljr. . ,...25 cents 1 cant belt Lye Uoailny only, 3 ceub
i can bert Faspkla only.. ..25 cato S cam go4 laaaioM only... 96 MV
TkfM good. are worth mora at wk o!mW aett. W 9a cot wast to UtT
i ' -
LETTER OF PRAISE
For Itcv. Ycufll Is Ilccclud lly Hct,
A. F. Slnhl From I'nslor of
Winchester Church.
Ilov. A. F. Stahl, pnstor of tho Chris
tian church, la In receipt of tho follow.
Inc letter from Ilov. J. II. McNeil, pas
tor of tho Winchester Christian church,
tclllnc of tho successful work of Dr,
Herbert Yeucll In tho revival which
recently closed there:
Horbcrt Yeucll and Enrlo Ycarsley,
his Blnger, hnvo Just closed hero one
of the most satisfactory meetings in
which I have ever had the pleasuro
of participating. Through five Sun
dt.yu thuy havo gripped this commu
nlty with Increasing power. Tho audi
enecs havo been continuously large
On Sundays many havo been turned
awny. Thero were elghty-slx addi
tions, mostly adults. We consider
this n good in-gathering, as we kcop
our grcut Bible school closoly gleaned
Herbert Yeucll Is distinctly an evnn
Kollst. No clap-trap, no sensational
ism mars his flno message. 1Mb Is the
Br.ncBt Bort of persuasive, powerful
preaching, the highest type of modern
evangelism. I have heard no more
faithful exponent of the doctrines of
primitive Christianity. Kindly, cour
teous Christian, he preaches "the truth
in love." His slncerelty and devotion
to duty Inspires nil, His earnestness
and cnthuBlasm profoundly Impresses
all. His message is always searching
and compelling. His sormons nnd Inc
tures abound In allusions to nature,
science, art, history and literature. Ills
Btylo Is dramatic but always sincere
and persuading. His scolarly tastes
gtvo u literary finish to his addresses
that charms his cultivated hearers and
yot they nrc bo lucid and sparkling as
to hold the attention of school children
Ho was very popular with tho young
people of the city and they were pres'
ent In largo numbers at overy service.
Ho delivered eight nddresses to the
schools nnd college, nnd was always
received with the greatest enthusiasm,
Ho delivered flvo of his great clinu
tauqua loctures to crowded houses. His
equipment for this work Is unoxcelled
Thcso lectures aro not something apart
from the meeting but powerful UIus
trntlons of many of tho great truths
ho Is constantly emphasizing. In this
field ho hns absolutely no rival.
Garlo Yearsloy captured our city
from the start. As a soloist I have not
heard his superior. His singing and
leadership are of the highest order.
Ho has a voice of singular sweetness
and rcmarkablo range. Ho is suroly
a master of his field.
To my preaching brethren nnd to our
churches desiring high-class evangel
Ism, I unhesitatingly and without res
ervation commend Herbert Ycuejj and
Earlo YcarBley. -
LINE-UPS
Of Two Teams Which Will Combat At
League Park Saturday und Sun
day Afternoons Good.
Games.
The first real ball games of tho sen
son will occur at League Park Sntur
day and Sunday afternoons, when tho
Lcnguo team will go up against tha
faBt All Professionals of Cincinnati.
Both teams nrc In good Rhapo and
the fans can bo nssurcd of some real
ball playing. Following nrc tho line
ups of both teams:
All Professionals.
Kuhmer, lb.
Itod MunBon, c.
Frost, p and lb.
Bartloy, p. and lb,
Kellormnn, sa,
Kuhlman, 3b,
Williams. 2b,
Meyers, If.
Dacey, rb
Kaiser, cf.
Jlaysville.
Devore, If.
Nixon, lb.
Sllnkor, 2b.
Tinnln, rf.
Jones, cf.
Kelly. B8,
Mueller c.
Do u gan or Allbrlght, 3b.
Mdarnynor, Shepherd, Few, Slnglo
ton, Freeh, Skinner and Surrency,
pitchers.
The Saturday game begins at 3:15
o clock nnd tho Sunday gamo at 2:30.
Christie- Mathowson pitched his first
game of tho season for Now York
Thursday and lost to Boston by tho
Bcoro of 7 to 6 in a ten-Inning contest.
White high boot and low shoes In
many varlotles at Barkleya Shoe
Store.
CAUGHT YOUNG FOXES.
Mr. Harry Catron of Aberdeen.
caught a batch of six young foxes
Thursday afternoon In tho hills near
Aberdeen. He brought them to Mnys
vlllo Friday morning and offorcd
them for Bale to local sports who will
use them for a chaso when thoy grow
little.
RECOMMENDATION FOIt MISS SUE
SETTLE.
(Owonton NcwB-Uorold.)
Miss Suo Settlo received a letter
Friday from Mr. J. W. CapllnEcr.
chairman of tho board of education
of tho city of Maysvllle, notifying her
ot her olcctlon by tho board as a teach
er In the Mayavlllo High School. Miss
Settle is tho daughter ot Col. James
II. Settle, and a nleco ot tho late
Congressman Evnn E. Settle, and is
now one ot tho teachers In tho Owen-
ton High School. Thero la no girl in
Owonton with moro friends than Miss
Settle, and her popularity ub a teach
er hero la ovideuco of this fact. She
le a young lady of rnro accomplish
ments, attractive, refined and Owen
ton's loss will bo Mayavlllo's gain
When lntorvlowed Mies Settlo had not
determined whether alio would accopt
tlio Mayavlllo position or hold tlio ono
here, but her friends hopo alio will de
cide to remain at homo. As a teachor
Mlia Settle would be a credit to any
scbodlcoom of any city school In the
state-
Instead of "nil roads leading to
Romo," tontght they will center to tho
HI ah Hnlinnl whom will tnVo nlnnn ihn
school event of tho Benson graduating
class of thirty-eight members .will of-
icr n spienuiu urnmaiuation ot Elliot s
"Silas Marner." Como out nnd wntcli
the Work nf tho Inri-oat ntnaa Avnt- .Ant
out from our High School. Admission
25 cents and 35 cents. Reserved Beats
nt Williams' Drugstore.
MAYSVILLE CHAPTER ENTER.
TAINS GRAND HIGH PRIEST.
Lnst night Royal Arch Masons from
Mason, nrncken nnd Fleming counties
wcro nrescnt nt thu annual Innupptlnn
of Mnysvlllo Chapter No. 9, which was
conuuciea uy urnnu nign rricst John
v. juctt. A largo number or visiting
brothrerr-werc present nnd tho It. A.
M. degree was conferred on n class of
three.
John T. Smith of tho Mnrgnct pool
room. C.'lticht an olnht-nnmul linna In
tho North Fork Thursday.
MISS MARGARET SMITH
Was Successful Contestant In Ledger
AdTPrllsiug Contest nnd Wins
tlio Prize of $20 In Gold.
Tho lllrlh of n Nation" Will Not Show
Hero On Mny 10 nnd II,
.Mny Come Lnler
Miss Morguret Smith, daughter of
Mr mill Mm William Smith UVnl
- ...... .....I ..niiii, w....... vj . nvai
Fourth strcct.'la tho winner of tho $20
in gom oircreu oy tho l'ubllc Ledger
advertising contest, which closed
Mondnv night.
MISS Smith had 95 nor rent nf her
nnswers correct, which showed that
alio mo innnn n mrnrm in i. nf H,.
advertisements. Hur plnsost onmnMltnr
had n percentage of 90 and a number
or oincrs wero also close contenders.
ino mcrchnnts ore satisfied with
tho results nbtninpil thrnitirli thn nnn.
test, feeling that people have been led
to mako n moro enroful perusal of tho
advertisements than ever before.
'oonle are bccomlnir ninrn nnd mnrn
aware of tho fact that tho successful
merchants are tho ones who advertise
consistently.
Tho nrizo was nntmnnroil nmi tim
money paid to MIsb Smith nt tho close
of tho first show at tho Washington
Theater.
To those who were in tlm mntnnt
and wero not successful we would say
mat your time lias been well spent In
reading what the Mayavlllo merchants
offered nnd you are therefore repaid.
ine i.ctiger extends tlianks to the
merchants nnd buslnoBs li
wore in tho contest, to thoso who wore
striving for the monnv ntul in tim
Washington Theater for its Interest
in ino mnuer or announcing tho prize
winner and paying tho money to .Miss
Smith.
We wish to conrrnttilntn Aflnn smith
unon her efforts which mmin I inn u ti n
cessful over a largo number of other
contestants. I
Manager Thomas M. Russell of tho
Washington Opera Houso received
word Thursday that "The Birth of n
Nation," which was scheduled to show
hero on May 10 nnd 11, would not bo
here. Ho Immediately wired for an
explanation nnd was told that tho
company wns unablo to fulfill Its con
tract, but would probably bo ablo to
show here during the week of Juno 12,
Mr. Russell nlso wired President
William dabloman of tho Portsmouth
baseball club, that the picture had
been cancelled. Mr. dnbleman wired
back thnt tho people of Portsmouth
who had expected to see the picture
hero on tho day of the opening ball
gamo wore very much disappointed
nnd thnt a number of them would not
come. Ho Bald that tho special to
Mayavlllo was sure to come, however,
with about 125 people. If tho picture
hod not been cancelled tho number
would have double that.
A large number of people from
Cincinnati, Flemlngsburg, Kwlng, Mt
Olivet, West Union, O., Manchester, O.,
Aberdeen nnd other surrounding towns
and cities hnd made arrangements to
see tho picture here nnd will bo badly
disappointed when' they hear of its
cancellation.
Manager Russell will try to have the
plcturo hero somo time during the
week of Juno 12.
5 Are Cnmlncr In fine nmv. I nt Itc hnvo trmtr nrrlnr fnr 91
the best in this market.
H A ten
PS I SlU V H
The best lot of Vegetables handled by any one in
3 Mavsvllle. m
m
f Dinger Bros., ini rh0fB0C2DSd st
ni
.Mr I.. P Hnrvln, field ngent fori Prof. G. C. Mnncc, principal of the
tho Children's Homo nt Louisville, was High School, Is In Cleveland, Oyon a
a visitor In tlio city Thursday i business trip,
s Keep Your Coffee Hot
5 In our THERMOS LUNCH BX. Just the thing B
J to carry your dinner coffee and dinner in same box. 5
Easy to carry and dust proof. See them. See price. Q
5 M. F. WILLIAMS DRUG COMPANY 3
QUICK SERVICE. PHONE 91.
Mr. Reese won tho dishes given away
nt the Gem Theater Thursday night
Try n want ad In Tho Ledger's claa
sided column. It will bring results.
THE HOME OF QUALITY CLOTHES
Wear Blue And Be Sure
Whether you're lucky enough to own four suits, or limited to
one, you will never go wrong on a blue serge.
For business or social wear, for dress or for service, blue
serge is standard.
We have a splendid line of guaranteed all-wool blue serge
suits in a variety of models at $15.00.
Buy yours now you can't afford to be without a blue serge
suit.
3D. SiE30B31I3Sra-E5R. &- OO.
.(isbw. ssmhhb ammm sssssjtasin.
OUR
ILK
Newest, excluslveness and right prices, arc desirable charcteristics of silks bought at Hunt's. Of
course every woman knows of taffeta special vogue this season and no Maysville store offers the assortment
of taffeta silks we do. Judge for yourself. We promise to fill any silk want between the prices of 50c and
$2.50. Taffeta is $1.25 to $2.00 a yard, 36 inches wide
3VEE5D3L,IL,10iSr RUGS $15
Closely and finely woven of wool exceptionally lustrous, dyed in colors of unusual beauty. The dis
tinguishing feature of these handsome rugs is a striking medallion in harmonious colors on a background of
green, red, blue and tan. Graceful geometrical figures form the border and corners of the rugs. Price $15
Size 9x12 ft. A carefully selected stock- of cheaper room size rugs at $9.50 to $12.50.
An interesting display of Rugs is now being held in our Carpet Section. Come in.
It will profit you to come promptly to this sale of quality suits. Of course this large stock will not be
sold in a day, or even a week. Stocks are not being added to and naturally the choice becomes smaller and
smaller. For that reason your interest demands that you come at the earliest possible moment.
We can only offer large assortments NOW, though quality and low price arc promised until the last
garment is sold. Prices $11.25 to $26.25 for suits worth twenty-five per cent. more.
1016
? 1852 HUNT
.1
Mr. P. L. Corbln. assistant sccro- Mr. L. S. Brown of West Second Mrs. S. Straus of Market street, has Mrs. Walter Mooro of Lexington. Is
tary of tho Kentucky Y. M. C. A., was street. Is in Paris on business con- returned from n short visit with lior lu;rJ spend tho summer with her
a visitor In tho city Thursday in the , d w,th h toIo,lUono company, son. Robert, in Cincinnati. aTu"'s' ft- 5'rc?c DS,,el anJ,Mr-
Interest ot tho work. 1 ' ' James Limerick of East Second street.
New Sport Stripe Suitings
In the best styles of colorings. A pretty hat to match if you want it.
White Chamorsette Gloves in plain white and black stitching,
one of the scarcest articles in the market today, but we have them
now in all sizes.
Some new styles in white and colored shoes and slippers just
in, in fact something new arrives daily at our store.
The Home of Butterick Patterns.
Bring your shoes to our up-to-date Repair Shop. Quick work and good materials used only.
7 i
S "MfcJW ML, MLm wrmmm amsm "n a S .w
2 JEWRMm i Mr Jtlr mmm JLui JH U 969 m J $m
0
MM
