State Histore.al Buahl
THE RONAN PIONEER
The Oldest Newspaper on the Flathead Indian Reservation
Entered as second-class matter May 12, 1910, at the post
tffice at Ronan. Montana. under the Act of March 3, 1879.
VOL. VII. NO.1. RONAN, MISSOULA COUNTY, MONTANA, MAY 5, 1916. $2.00 Per Year
HOUSE DEFEATS
HOME RULE BILL
Washington, May 2.-The adminis
tration's fight for the senate Philip
pine bill, with its Clarke amendment
authorizing independence for the is
lands within four years, was lost in
the house.
After voting, 213 to 165, to strike
out the Clarke amendment, the house,
251 tcant passed a substitute for the
entire measure the Jones bill provid
ing for a greater measure of self-gov
ernment in the Philippines and carry
ing a preamble, declaring the intention
of the United States to grant inde
pendence ultimately, but without fix
ing a date.
Now the bill goes to conference be
twaeen the two houses.
Thirty Democrats joined the solid
Republican minority in defeating the
Clarke amendment, which had been
given unqualified endorsement by
President Wilson.
Over the heated protest of adminis
tration leaders the house, 203 to 154,
instructed its conferees not to agree to
any declaration setting a definite time
for granting the islands their inde
pendence.
Speaker Clark named Representa
tive Jones of Virginia and Garret of
Tennessee, Democrats, and Towner of
Iowa, Republican, as conferees.
"Don't haul down the flag," was the
burden of a score of speeches from
the Republican side. Representative
Cooper of Wisconsin, Republican,
struck a discordant note on the mi
nority side by declaring that while
the flag was in the Philippine the
Ccnstitution had not been there.
ROOT BOOM IS UNDER WAY
New York, May 2.-The campaign
to nominate Elihu Root for president
at the Republican national convention
has been formally launched.
Headquarters have been opened in
charge of J. W. Dwight, twelve years
a congressmen. -
Senator J. W. Wadsworth will be
the representative at Washington.
Headquarters also will be estab
'lished in Chicago.
CENVER MEN IN OIL SEARCH
Billings, Mont., May 2.-Denver capi
talists, head by M. W. Mouatt, have
secured a lease on 20,000 acres along
the Big Boulder river in Sweet Grass
county and have shipped in rigs with
the intention of drilling for oil. The
geological conditions are said to be
very favorable. This district lies
west of Carbon county, where success
ful operations are being conducted.
HALFBREED KILLS FARMER
Lewistown, Mont., May 2.-Deputy
Sheriffs McEnernay and Tullock came
in from the Forest Grove section with
Pat Berger, a halfbreed Indian charged
with the murder of George Crawford.
Berger surrendered to the officers
saying, "You can put on the loop as
soon as you want to." It is believed
the men had trouble over a homestead
deal.
TEACHERS' UNION UPHELD
Chicago, May 2.-The appellate court
of Illinois upheld a decision of the su
perior court granting a temporary in
junction to Chicago school teachers
against the board of education re
straining it from enforcing the Loeb
rule, barring them from membership
in the Chicago Teachers' Federation.
Seven thousand teachers are affected.
UPHOLDS LAMAR SENTENCE
Washington, May 2.-The supreme
court has affirmed the conviction of
David Lamar. "wolf of Wall street," in
the New York federal courts on
charges of impersonating Representa
tive A. Mitchell Palmer to J. P. Mor
gan and others with intent to defraud.
Lamar is under sentence to serve
two years in the penitentiary.
Canadian Troops Reach England.
Ottawa, May 2.-It is officially an
nounced that the troop ships Scandi
navian, which sailed from Canada
April 12, and the Missanable, which
sailed April 18, have arrived safely in
England with nearly 3,000 ocers sad
men.
ALL DUBLIN REBELS
ABANDON STRUGGLE
London, May 2-Dublin is almost
normal following the surrender of all
rebels in the Irish capital.
Revolters in the country districts
are laying down their arms rapidly,
according to an official statement is
sued by the English press bureau. The
statement follows:
"All the rebels in Dublin have sur
rendered and the city is reported
quite safe. The rebels in the country
districts are surrendering to the
mobile columns.
"During the night of April 30-May 1
the rebels in Enniscorthy made an of
fer to surrender their leaders and
arms on condition that the rank and
file be allowed to return to their
homes. They were informed that the
only terms that could be entertained
were unconditional surrender. These
terms were accepted by them. It was
reported later that the rebels were
surrendering on these terms.
"Wicklow, Arklow, Dunlavin, Bagen
alstown and New Ross and the coun
ties of Cork, Clare, Limerick and Ker
ry are generally quiet. The whole of
Ulster is quiet."
GERARD GOES TO BERLIN
Berlin, May 2.-Future German
American relations probably can be
looked forward to with less apprehen
sion, although dispatches bearing on
the nature of the German reply to the
American note respecting submarine
warfare have been stopped by the cen
sorship.
The deliberations at great headquar
ters have been concluded. Ambassador
Gerard has left for Berlin.
The German reply is expected with
little delay.
TWO BRITISH CRAFT SUNK
London, May 2.-The British armed
yacht Algusa, Captain T. P. Walker,
retired vice admiral, and the British
mine sweeper Nasturtium, Lieutenant
Commander Robin W. Lloyd, struck
mines in the Mediterranean and sank.
The official statement announcing
this adds that the captains and officers
of both ships were saved.
Six men are missing from the crew
of the Algusa and seven from the
Nasturtium.
MAKES PATRIOTIC SPEECH
Washington, May 2.-President Wil
son, speaking at the opening of the
National Service School, training
camp for women here, said:
"God forbid that the United States
should be drawn into war, but if she
should be, America would shake her
self out of a dream and say to any
one who doubts the spirit of the new
world that she still speaks the voice of
humanity."
County Attorney Under Fire.
Billings, Mont., May 2.-Complaint
has been filed in the district court of
Blaine county seeking the removal of
County Attorney D. J. Sias on charges
that he violated the law in aiding the
defendant in a criminal prosecution in
a justice court. The complaint was
sworn to by Peter Burns of Harlem.
The essence of the charge is that the
prosecuting attorney advised the de.
fendant to disqfualify a certain justice
of the peace in the proceedings.
REPULSE STRONG
TEUTON ATTACKS
London, May 2.-The repulse by the
French of powerful German attacks
around Dead Man's Hill and counter
attacks to the north of Cumleres, has
again been followed by heavy German
bombardment of these sectors and a
continuation of the shelling of Cote
du Poivre and Douaumont, northeast
of the fortress. No fresh infantry at
tacks have been launched by the Ger
mans.
The usual bombardments are in
progress on the Austro-Italian front.
Gorizia again has come under the
heavy fire of the Italians. In the Ada
mello zone, the Italians are on the of
fensive against the Austrians at To
peto Pass.
Paris reports that on the Greek
frontier there have been frequent, but
unimportant skirmishes between en
tente allies and German-Bulgarian
forces.
Practice Game Ties
The Ronan and St. Ignatius ball
teams met in St. Ignatius last Sunday
for a practice game, playing seven in
nings with even honors. Our boys have
had little if any practice and most of
them have been like foundered horses
sifice Sunday's game. Both teams
showed up well and gave every promise
of playing fast ball this summer.
A game is scheduled for next Sunday
between Ronan and Somers at the lat
ter place. Arrangements are being
made for the trip to leave early in the
morning, taking the boat at PoIson for
Somers, the round trip on the lake be
ing made for $1 per. In addition to
seeing a good ball game the trip itself
will be worth more than the price and a
good bunch of Ronan boosters should
accompany the team.
WORK ON ELETRIC SURVEY
BEGUN YESTERDAY MORNING
:1 Reliable information received in Ro
r nan yesterday is to the effect that a
e
3 party of surveyors left Missoula yester
a day morning to run a survey of the pro
s posed Missoula-Reservation electric
e railway. The party is headed by
Major Smead and S. G. Swigart, the
latter formerly with the engineering
corps of the U. S. reclamation service,
f and the intention is to run the line
through vir St. Mary's pass, securing
the necessary data to make estimates
on cost of construction and the feasi
bility of the route. Although little
noise has been made yet the promoters
e of the electric line have been busy and
i- and making headway and are in no
n
e
NEW OPERA HOUSE
: FOR RONAN SOON
H. M. Gehlert has completed arrange
d ments for the erection of a new opera
r, house in Ronan. Ground was purchased
h from the Flathead Townsite company,
Lt opposite the Stanley Scearce store, the
k first of the week and construction will
c. commence next week.
g The building will be 36x96 feet and
a the plans call for an up-to-date building
throughout. A stage 20x20 will be pro
e vided with dressing rooms on either side,
a sloping floor with some 300 individual
folding opera chairs, ticket box with
entrances on both sides, a fireproof
housing for moving picture machines,
1. carpeted aisle and electric lights.
e At the present time the show busi
,g ness will probably not justify the erec
tion of a show house of this kind but
s Mr. Gehlert says he is building for the
1e future and is confident the time will
soon come when his invesment will
prove to be a good one. The new opera
house will be one Ronan people can call
attention to with pride and one that
would be a credit to any city.
; SOME PROPOSE OHANGE
IN PROHIBITION LAW
z. According to a prominent resident of
.e the state of iWashington the mooted
5 question of whether there should be
e some change in the prohibition law of
that state, has been brought before
the voters. The citizens of the larger
cities, he says, are not unanimous in
their approval or disapproval of the
prohibition law, the enforcement of
which has been a matter of considerable
trouble there.
An initiative measure has been filed
at the capitol representing the alterna
e tive law, modifying state wide prohibi
:s tion,. he said "The mea
1' sure authorizes manufacturers of beer
S in our state to put out their product,
n selling it in the same manner that is
a followed now by people who wish to im
:e port intoxicants from other states, not
st ably from Montana. The bill reduces
t the amount of alcohol allowed in beer
r- to 4 per cent. Formerly beer contained
6 per cent., and the beer being shipped
n in has about that much alcohol. The
t. measure contemplates the abolition of
e saloons and the sale of liquor in resorts
a. of any kind. It is framed to give the.
Washington manufacturer the privi
leges accorded the manufacturer and
wholesaler in Montana. There can be
no drinking on the premises. Six quarts
k is the most allowed at one sale and no
it beer can be sold except in bottles.
WEDDED AT BIER
OF BRIDE'S MOTHER
The Marion, Ohio, Star of Saturday,
April 22, says:
'In the presence of the immediate
family, Mr. William E. Baumert of
Ronan, Montana, and Miss Katherine
Titus, of this city, were united in mar
riage this morning at 9:30 o'clock, by
the Rev. Jesse Swank of the Epworth
M. E. church.
"The ceremony was performed at the
bier of the bride's mother, Mrs. S. N.
Titus, in compliance with her wishes."
Both Mr. Baumert and Miss Titus
are well known in and :around Ronan
and their many friends here will wish
them a long and happy life.
wise detered from their task by the
presence in this field of Northern
Pacific surveyors.
The intention of those back of the
electric road is to push it through re
gardless of any action the Northern
Pacific may take and it may be a race
between them as to which one occupies
the field first.
The N. P. surveyors are still work
ing on their line near Ronan, with this
place their headquarters, and while we
are still skeptical as to the intentions
of that road yet we must admit that at
times it looks very much as if they
mean business. It at least looks en
couraging for a road for the valley in
the near future,
REBELS TRIED
SHOT AT ONCE
The rebellion in Ireland has been
squelched and many of the leaders tried
and convicted by a court martial and
some have been shot. A dispatch from
Londondated May 3rd says:
Three signatories to the republican
proclamation in Ireland have been tried
by court martial and found guilty and
were shot this morning.
Patrick H. Pearse, the "provisional
president of Ireland" was among those
shot.
Three other signers of the proclama
tion were sentenced to three years im
prisonment.
Premier Asquith made an announce.
mnent to this effect to the house.. thiu
afternoon.
Another of the rebels shot this morn.
ing was James Connolly, who was styled
I'commandant general of the Irish re
I publican army."
A London dispatch on April 30 gave
the text of the proclamation issued by
the insurgents at Dublin at the out
break of the revolt, with the signatures
of Thomas J. Clark. S. MacDiarmod,
Thomas MacDonagh, P. H. Pearse, E.
Ceanut, James Connolly and Joseph
Junkett.
Of the other signatories of the re
publican proclamation found guilty and
shot was Thomas J. Clark and Thomas
MacDonagh.
FIRST COMMENCEMENT
RONAN HIGH SCHOOL
The first commencement of the Ro
nan high school and the annual school
festival of district 28 will be held at
Ronan on Friday May 19th. The grad
uating exercises will be given at 10:30
o'clock in the morning at which the
following speakers will be present:
State Superintendent H. A. Davee,
Prof. Carl Halliday, of the State Uni
versity and Dr. Grant E. Finch, of the
State Normal school at Dillon. During
the afternoon will come the spelling
matches, games and folk dancing, to
gether with the exhibit of the school
work, and at 6:30 o'clock the annual
banquet. Those who wish tickets for
the banquet should reserve them with
Mr. Becker not later than May 15th.
After the banquet will come the annual
district dance.
Milk Fever In Cows
The recent loss of a valuable cow in
a herd near Missoula from "milk fever"
(which is really not a fever) brings this
cow trouble so forcibly to my mind
that I feel impelled to write a dis
cription of the nature of the trouble,
its treatment and prevention. It is a
disease that attacks only the best cows,
the well nourished, heavy milkers and
comes on sudenly, generally within 48
hours after calving or more often with
in 24 hours. It very rarely occurs in
heifers; cows dropping their fourth,
fifth or sixth calves are most likely to
be attacked as they are then in their
prime as milk producers. Death (or
recovery) may occur within 18 hours
or a longer time. If the cow is not
treated, death is very likely to occure.
SYMPTONS:
Cow may be uneasy at the begining
of the attack and this is shown by
switching of the tail, treading with
hind feet and perhaps bellowing oc
casionally. Nothing to alarm the man
who is not familiar with the disease. I
Paralysis follows in a few hours, shown
by staggering wobbly gait of hind legs
and weakening of knees in front. Soon
the cow gets weaker, lies down and is
unable to get up. She curls her head
around to the side of the body and if
head be forcibly pulled around straight,
will flop back to the side as soon as re
leased. These are not all the symptoms,
but are enough to enable the average
man to recognize the trouble. Cows
which have once been attacked- are li
able to have the trouble again at the
next calving time.
TREATMENT:
Although the exact cause of the
trouble has not been worked out very
clearly, enough is known so that a very
successful treatment has been discover
ed and has been in use now for ten
years. It has reduced the mortality
from 50% to about 5%. It consists in
simply filling the udder of the affected
cow with clean, filtered air until it is
stretched or distended. A very simple
device for this purpose is now manu
factured and sold under the name of
milk fever outfit. It is not expensive
and its possession and use at the right
time will save the owner many dollars
in a few years. In a hurry up case
where no outfit is handy, a common
auto or bicycle pump may be used, but
there is danger of infection and caked
udder from the pumping of unclean air.
While pumping in the air, a gentle mas
saging of the udder will help in making
sure that the air reaches every part.
After the quarter is distended a broad
tape should be tied around the teat to
hold the air in. This can be removed
in a few hours when the muscles of the
teat itsself will do the holding. Relief
follows very quickly and the cow may
recover within six or eight hours.
PREVENTIVE MEASURES:
Heavy milking cows in good condi
tion and known to be at the dangerous
age should be given a dose of I to 1%
pounds of Epsom salts two or three
days before calving. After calving,
" leave most of the milk in the udder for
24)sours, allobring the calf to take his
first meal only and see that he gets
" some from each'teat. It is the dis
I tention of the udder that counts and
leaving the milk in does this just as
surely as pumping in air. The tendency
of most people is to milk out clean
after calving but this is the very thing
that should not be done where milk
fever is anticipated. Combination of
the purgative and leaving the milk un
drawn in the udder will act as a pre
ventative of the trouble in most cases.
A lot more could be told about this
trouble but these are the main facts
and if they are kept in mind and made
use of, you will not need to again suf
fer the loss of your best cow from
"milk fever." Farmers Bul. No. 206
which you can get free by writing the
Dept. of Agriculture, Washington, D.
C. gives fuller and more detailed in
formation.-S. R. Campbell, County
Agriculturist, Montana State College,
Bozeman.
GERMAN NOTE COMPLETED 1
BUT SUBJECT TO CHANGES
I A wireless from Berlin announces the a
completion of the German note to the 1
United States on the subject of sub
marine warfare. The note will be
subject to minor changes which may
result from interchanges of views be
tween Berlin and general army head
quarters. It is stated that the note
- assures the United States that Germany r
I will issue definite isnstruction to Ger- E
I man submarine comanders that will
comply with the final demand of the
United States, through President Wil
son. Strong hopes that a favorable
I outcome will result are entertained,
but all decision is being reserved by the n
Washington government pending the v
arrival of the German note. o
Rural Phone Lines
President Stevens of the Independent
3 Telephone company has announced that
I his company is making preparations to I
" install rural telephones throughout the t
lower end of the valley, to connect li
i with St. Ignatius and later with Ronan, n
, Dixon and Ravalli. o
I The plan outlined is to install the d
I phone and after ten days use, if the
" subscriber finds the service satisfactory b
i he is to pay one years rental ($20)in ad- I
vance. This system will help to furnish U
the finances with which to erect these
lines, and it is thought to be the best
way in which to get the system in
operation without loss of time.
The only other way to get the mon- C
ey necessary would be to sell stock to
subscribers, and this will mean an im- t
mence amount of work and expense t
and would cause a delay of at least an
other year. -St. Ignatius Post.
MUCH DEPENDS
UPON CARRANZA
Washington, May 2.-If Carranza
authorities attempt to back up any
threats they have made following
President Wilson's decision to keep
the troops in Mexico the administra
tion is prepared to invade in force the
Southern republic.
The administration is prepared to
take such other steps as may be nec
essary for the establishment of a sta
ble government in Mexico.
On high official authority it may be
stated that President Wilson has no
intention of withdrawing the troops,
however insistent Carranza may prove
to be, until the de facto authorities of
Mexico have demonstrated in a prac
tical way its ability to control the sit
uation in Northern Mexico and pre
vent a repetition of the border out
rages.
Through two different channels the
United States government notified
General Carranza that it does not de
sire at this time to discuss a with
drawal of the American forces from
Mexico.
At the direction of President Wil
son, Secretary of War Baker so advis
ed General Scott, who is representing
the United States in conferences with
General Obregon on the border.
After a conference with Secretary
Baker and Counselor Polk of the state
department Secretary Lansing inform
ed Eliseo Arredondo, Mexican ambas
sador designate, in response to a
pressing inquiry from the latter, that
the American government is not in a
position to answer General Carranza's
former request until the conclusion of
the Scott-Obregon conferences.
"There is an increasing suspicion
among our people that American
troops are remaining in Mexico for
some other purpose than to punish
the bandits," Arredendo told Mr. Lan
sing.
GOVERNOR BURNQUIST FILES
3 St. Paul, May 2.--Governor .. A. A.
Burnquist filed as 'a candidate for the
- Republican nomination for governor.
1 He called personally at the omve of
the secretary of state, filed his am
davit and paid his $50 filing fee.
In a statement made Governor
Burnguist said that he will not namz
a personal campaign committee,2 bibt
will leave the management of his
campaign to the volunteer committee
of his friends, wtjich has opened head
quarters at the Merchants hotel, St.
Paul, and consists of Senatoj's Joseph
A. Jackson and C. N. Orr, and Repre
sentatives J. B. Sanborn and A. E.
Bjorklund.
Congressman Charles R. Davis of
St. Peter filed for renomination on the
Repubilcan ticket in the Third dis
trict.
LA FOLLETTE BEAT WILSON
Madison, Wis., May 2.-Following is
the official vote of the recent election
in Wisconsin for presidential prefer
ence and Republican delegates at large
as announced by the state canvassing
board. President Wilson received 109,
462 and Senator La Follette 110,652.
The vote for Republican delegates
at large was as follows: Philipp 71,
188; Thompson, 69,284; Houser, 68,
809; Doerfler, 67,208; Sanborn, 66,586;
Cook, 64,975; Baensch, 58,751; Elling
son, 56,929.
INSURANCE MEN FEDERATE
Butte, Mont., May 2.-Insurance men
of this state have formed a federation
embracing agents of all varieties of in
surance from life and fire to tornado
and hail. J. M. Burlingame of Great
Falls was elected chairman; A. T. Mor
gan, Butte, vice chairman; G. B. Con
way, Helena, secretary; H. R. Cun
ningham, Helena, representative to
national council. The organization
will affiliate with the National Council
of Insurance Federation.
CANDIDATE FOR GOVERNOR
St. Paul, May 2.-T. J. Anderson of
Belgrade, a merchant and a Prohibi
tion party worker of long standing,
has been selected by the leaders to
make the race for governor this year,
on the Prohibition ticket. W. G. Cal
derwood, who headed the ticket two
years ago, will not be a candidate. Mr.
Anderson has not given his answer,
but if he consents to file it is said he
Will have no opposition in the third
Taty primaries.
Took One Chance Too Many.
Mott, N. D., May 2.-Chance Hamil
ton was correctly named, for he took
one too many chances with a bull
which had frequently attacked him.
He was found unconscious in the pas
ture with several broken ribs and in
ternal injuries which caused his
death later.
