Wzmt'.
BKllflHMHSflHBi
Pone Unsatisfactory But New Orders
to Commanders Meet Demands of
President Wilson Completely
OPINIONS IN WASHINGTON
iicatton ot flow the Administration Will
TTntil the Official Copy Has Reachcd
^WaliKlnglonf
(By Associated Press.)
ISHINGTON, May 5?President Wilson and the cabinet went carefully
vorftiie'? German note transmitted in news dispatches from Berlin today. A
at feeling that it was unsatisfactory was somewhat leavened by the text of
hepew orders to submarine commanders although it was foreseen that the
m&m*
nee 'J immunity "for merchant ships recognized by international law"
flit; of somo dispute ot interpretation. So much depended on words
.fUieirfehades of meaning involved in translation from German to English
at no decision can be attempted until the official text is in the President's
Ud..
imbassador Gerard cabeled today that he had started it on the cable last
^nfigltiought to be In Washington tonight or early tomorrow. A
gojvlewB were current in official circles. One was that Germany has do
:lared her intention of abandoning "her prsent methods of submarine warfare"
^Mdemanded by the President and that the American government might have
^waitto see whether the abandonment will be effective. The other was that
he United States having aUeady attmpted to have Great Britain give up its
nterference with neutral commerce and having told Germany htat it cannot
iscuss with hr Its negotiations with Great Britain has no course but to break
liplomatic relations with Germany.
htle the general tone of the German note created unfavorable impressions,
f officials took the position that the language was immaterial if the guarantees
(rare real
Germany's declaration that she had Issued new ordes to submarine comman*
ot to attack without warning "merchant vessels recognized by Interna
tional law" waa considered the chief point. The German view of merchant
Mflielaru defined in the declaration of February 8 of its purpose to sink arm
?hips without warning, and the. American view as defined in the armed
hip.memorandum made public recently, differ in several points: Some officials
Ueve that for this reason the controversy has now come to"the point where
ally's future action would determine the course of the Unlt&d States.
KeYrefu8al of the German government to openly admit the attack on,the
Hex. waa considered only incidental to the main Issue. Until'President
onjhlmself decides where the German note is acceptable there will be no
uncement of the attitude of ovr govenment.
BERLIN, May 5.?(By wireless -to
_jt of the onte of the German govern
nent in reply to the American note
especting submarine warfare:.
BgTfieSbndersigned. on behalf of the"
* .1 German government, has the
o present to his excellency, the
ssador of the United States, Mr.
ts W. Gerard, the following reply
e note of April 20 regarding the
nduct of German submarine war
=m
Teh German government handed
to the proper naval authorities
early Investigation the evidence
pcerriing tlia Sussex, aa communlcat
")jt the Government of the United
el. Judlng by the rosults that
Hnreltljratlon has hitherto yield-,
the German government Is alive
possibility that Hie ship men
In the note of April 10 as hav
ifionpedoed by a German sub
Yactuall: identical with tho
German government bogs to
jWnrthwfrComniunlcatlotf'dnTtha
^ntUSKrtaln polnta arefascer
~ilcS are of decisive Import
?tl&llshlng the facts of the
""" ttftrn',oaBtlMitRh?lcoiP^
mandcr WM.wronra
vessel to be a man a war, the German
government will not fail to draw the
consequence resulting therefrom.
"In connection4.-with--the.case of the
Sussex the Government of the Unit
ed States made a series of statements,
the gist of which is the assertion that
the incident is to be considered but
one instance of a deliberate method
of indiscriminate destruction of ves
sels of all sorts. Nationalities and des
tinations by German submarine com*
manders.
"The German government must em
phatically repudiates the assertion.
The German government, however,
thinks it of litle avail to enter into
details in the present stage of af
fairs, more particularly as the Gov
ernment ofthe United States omited
to substantiate the assertion,by ref
erence to concrete facts.. The German
governme ntwill only state that it has
imposed far-reaching restraints upon
the use of the submarine weapon sole
ly in consideration of neutrals' inter
ests in spite of the fact that these
restrictions are "necessarily of advan
tage to Germany's enemies no such
consideration hasever been shownneu
"The .German submarine forces have
in fact, orders to conduct the subma?
ine warfare in-accordance with the
general principles of visit and siarch
and the destruction of merchant ves
sels recognized by International law,
the solc'exception being- theconduct of
warfare against enemy trade carried
on enemy? freight ships encountered
in the war zone surrounding- Great
Britain. "-With regard , to these no as
surances have ever ben given; to the
Government of the United.States. No
such assurances are contline&in the
deration of Februaryg5gltfl6.'
or are
faith. Errors actually occured. They
can in no kind of, Fatfate, be avoid
ed altogether.- Allowances mustylW'
tyade the conduct of naval - warfare
igainst ; respiting. to. all klnjis of rusep
whethere perniissable or illicit.
"But apart* from the possibility-of
errors naval warfare.. Just like, war
fare on land,' fniplfea unavoidable dan
gers for neutral persons and-goods en
tering the fighting zone. Even In casea
I where the 'naval action' is 'confined' to
ordinary forms of cruiser warfare, neu
tral persons and goods repeatedly
conie to grief.
"The Gorman-government, has re
peatedly and ,explicitly pointed Out
thedangers from mines that have led
to the loss of numerous ships.
. ' "The German government has made
several proposals to the Government
of the United StateB In order to re
duce to a minimum for. American trav
elers and goods the Inherent dangers
of naval warfare. Unfortunately the
Government of the United States de
cided not.to accept the.proposals. Had
it accepted the Government of the
United States would have been instru
mental in preventing the greater part
of the acidents that American citi
zens have met with in the meantime.
The German government stll stands
by its offer to come to an agreement
along these linos.
"Ab the German government repeat
edly declared, It cannot dispense with
the use of the submarine weapon in
the conduct of warfare against enemy,
trade. The German-government, how
ever, has now decided to make a fur
ther; concession, adapting methods of
submarine war to the iritorests of-neu
trals. ? ,jy.
4il n reachlng tliis decision the Ger
man government is actuated by con
siderations, which" nre above the lev
el of the'dlsputed question.4' ' *:
"The German government attach
es-, no less importance to ..thesacred
nciples of humanity than the Gov
erment .of .the United States. It again
takes fully. Into account that both gov
ernmetns::for many years; cooperated
in developing International law In con
formity with these*.principles, thecal-,
tlmate object of which has always
been to confine warfare on sea and
land to armed forqes of belligerents
and safeguard as far as possible non
combatants against the horrors of war,
but although these considerations are
of great weight they alone would not
unde'rrpresent circumstances have'de
termined the attitude of the German
government. For inanswer to the ap
peal by the Government of the Unit
ed States on behalf of the sacred prin
ciple of humanity and International
law .the German' government mi%t "re
peat once more with all emphasis that
it was not tlio German, but the
British government which Ignored all
accepted rules of International law
and extended this terrible war to the
lives, and property of non-combatants,
having no repard whatever for the
interests and rights of neutrals and
non-combatants that through this
method of warfare have been severe
ly Injured.
"In self defense agaisnt the illegal
conduct of BritiBh warfare while fight
ing a fitter struggle for national ex
istence, Germany had to resort to the
hard but effective weapon og subma
rine warfare. 'A
"As matters stand, the German goy
ernment cannot but reiterate lhat the
sentiments of * humanlty^Tiich' ?ttfe
Government ofthe United" Statds ex
atiSMStftffUKL- ... railia? illiiuia
!!to3M8T??S?r
msm&si
ejnmout, In agreement with ?ho (;eV
raan people, falls to understand .>???
discrimination all the mo? ?v?, J
Bt^rMd'5 rd eIpliclledlv declared It"
SMS
the conduct of warfare to Ilic'e fms
>all unon MiA.Rciiu e3 lQtVre'
7l.it Ul uie L/Wted States to ..r*
^ assails
^ XlJZ Il^h
tSK T?,S5?IS|
ia^ Oermflfa ^?n?Iea Bf.,ta,n deelar
iSSSr?i,-ss?i
to for^o^u^yfi^f*a^'ft1 ?!
vice of British trado war""0 **]
^swsfSsnafal
fercKV," 'cZ1ie 11,6 war <? armea
tlie lmJJi, hel lgercnt countries. In
i?mJ . ? . liumanltv and main.
xi'Sp^HS
Great Britain ^rth ["? inslst a8a|nst
I rights, to freedom ^e,,lncon'rovertlhlc j
matters stand Fh? n 80a8' nut ai?
?fe??SpS2te ??&* I
UPP1
mrnm
ble"extent6 ir"?' wl,al ?'?ldera"
S?SF?
,mmml
governmert nevertheless is" reL?eS
ino rri^ndsijjp connecting thV #?,!
great nations.for over one
years, but- aisw <h? ?u , Hundred
sp?a:lli
SMfiS
on a basis Va*fiS?in m?ko t",ac?
awBetst&w
-Air:S SSf'ter r. r
2;;.rxs,'?"??"s
sssssamS^gs
duration to the flehilm, 5? re,t of ita
^??Te?ore^TiU7-,
5S,Shlh(Gw?i"%
the* UnSl|CS5~ ?'
forces have received the^'no"^
-.','^,*.ccord*?? with ,h. Beniri|
?"d search and
LINCOLN DISTRICT
MATTER AT REST
New Move May Be Taken
Some Time Next
Week.
Following the recount of the Lincoln
district bond election yesterday the
county court adjourned and will meet
again Monday morning. Monday is
the day set for the return of the books
of the registrars who have made, the
registration of the*voter8:in the coun
ty. Tuesday is the day required by
iawrfor the county.court to nnme the
election commissioners and poll clerks
?hi.jjrlwwy ,Thrce com
ontri *n?l t*q*iclerk*;*re to be
named for each voting precinct lit |
the county.
It is likely that some action will be
.lata. nexti^5W^b}iaitlUs^Ueu8 ol
Lincoln district who asked for the
recount. Attorneys Meredith and
Haymonu are working on plans for a
contest of the election but have not
yet announced'their intentions. If this,
course is decided upon the' evidence
will be heard bofore the county court.
The citizens who are protesting are
allowed ten days after the announce
ment of the re-count in which to be
gin their action, but it is likely that
the matter . will 'be rapidly brought
to issho if any action is taken.
Women Give Millions
For Home Missions
(By Associated Press)
SARATOGA SPRINGS, May 5.?The J
women of the Methodist Episcopal
church have raised $3,432,50 during
tho last year for home mission pur
poses, according to figures submitted
to the General conference of the
church,today. This is an increase of
nearly $lp0f000/over; "that raised dur
ing the preceding four years.
The money is contributed 'hrough
Woman's Home Missionary society.
The society according to report owns
schools, hospitals, homes for girls and
other Institutions in . the , United
States. Alaska and Porto Rico that
are valued at"$2,364,163. J
The Weather,
Western Pennsylvania and West
yirginia?Fair tonight, and Saturday.
LOCAL WEATHER READINGS
F. P. Hall, Observer
Temperature at 8' ai m. today 53.
Yesterday's weather cloudy; ? temp
erature. maximum 69; minimum 45;
precipation none. j ?
FOR C. C. DINNER
Industrial Agent Committee
Will Report At Annual
Meeting.
Plans of tho banquet committee af
the Chamber of Commerce, for the
dinner that will be held after the an
nual meeting on May 12, are nearing
completion and the final arrangements
will probably -be finished in a few
days. Miss Webster, head of the do*
partment of domestic science at the
High .school," is working on the .menu
lor the;;occasion -which will Jbea served
by the several Christian Endeavor so
cieties th$ .city.. Jfhus an exco'lent
dinner -it assured and ^present Mndl
catlohB are that a larger attendance
than usual will be present.,;The'com
mittee on the industrial agent propo
sition will make a definite r^pont
at this meeting and since this
! is a matter of vital Interest to every*
! one many business men arc expected
that are not members of tho chamber..
'?.With .the reports ot sevoral other ocm- j
mlttees and the election of riino new
directors the annual session is likely
to be a one of the busiest that has
ever been held.
Mayor Bowqn who is chairman of Hie
Industrial agent committee stated to
?day that his committee would present
a ? definite proposition to the annual
meeting and that some final action
would'probably bo takfen by the cham
ber as, a whole. Secreatry Evans to
day sent out cards for.the dinner to ev
ery person in the community who it
| Is thought would be interested in the
work of the Chamber whether mem
bers'or not. The committees on the
referendums. submitted by the United
States chamber of commerce have pre
1 pared reports and are ready to report
with the exception s of committee on'1
Maintenance of Resale Priccs'of which
Trevvy Nutter is the chairman. .This
committee however will hold a meet
ing this evening to prepare their re;
port. The reports of all thes. com:
mittees will be voted upon at tho
meeting next-Friday .
Candidates Are
'Getting Certificates
Practically all of the certificates of
the candidates for the nominations at
the June primary election have been
filled 7,with^circuit clerk; W. S., Black.
'All, candidates for nominations to - of
fices that receive the votCB of more
than ohe.'couhty ? are -required to file
their certificates with the secretary
of state at Charleston. Tomorrow is
the last day of receiving these'cer
tificates w4th the circuit clerk as they
are inquired; under; the new - Primary
election Jaw to be filed thirty days
preyious~tO;the date of the election.
Delegates and Alternates
; : To the Chicago Convention
' DELEGATES. ii ALTERNATES.
At Large. > Lucius Hodge. of Harrison, Chas.
[GoVUHenn; D.:H?tfleld. of McDow- E. Mitchell, of Fayette, M. T. Whit-',
ell, Hon. Davit Elklns, of Randolph, tlco, of McDowell, John Cummins,
Isaac T. Marin, of Bramwcll, Her- .Ohio,
schet C. O'gden, of Ohio. ' " ?' i " . ?/V ?;
Flrat District.
T. J. Sherrard, of Brooke. \V. L. Smith..Jr., of Hancock.
R. T..Cunnitighara, of Marion. J. M. Saunders, of Marshall.
Second District.
A. R.: 8tMIIngs, of Tucker. . W M Th6ma?. of BerkeieyBaBali
W. X. Heskltt. of Mineral. Hide Cooper, of Hampshire.
y): ? Thlrt) District.
H. Bt Curtln, of Harrison. C. O? Howard, of Webster.
B. G. Bradley, ol Clay. ' ''' - ? ????n. g*--.
: 0! W/'PheHls. of Cabell.
J. Mentor Caldwell, of Wood.
, . ' John Cblttum, of Lewis. ,
- Fourth District. ^
Tnn UTIIIInmi nf PlaaaftnU
Joe Williams, of Pleasants.^
Cbas. Edgar Hogg, of Mason.'
Robinson's Friends Magnafi
Convention.
wheeling; th*
gates and tliu.vla ltpra][tiQyft'jJW
Mean state" convention hurried to
trains for the trip'to^thelrlfcomeB last
night and this morning
unanimity of opinion that the great
gathering of!yc8t&<las^eraap8 thr
greatest In the history of the Repub
lican party in this state, had been an
even more noteworthyilluStYfttlon ^J|
the harmony which pervades the party
this yeai than was the convention of
the First distrlct. held^MWellBbarg
the day prcviou8;;_fA^fli&e Flrflt dis
trict convention^ was^a veritable, love
feast.
Early in the day it becatraWldent
that the friends of Judgejffi&biuson
had th" convention and ail its pro
ceedings In the hollowB of their
hands. It was In thelr pbweM If they
were -ao disposedrun steam
roller over the liillj^forces. But the?
were not so disposed.^
pie were accorded representation" on
the "Big Four" and they left here feel
ing that they had been magnauimously
treated in every way. For a time the
night before tho convention met the
situation was; terise?and, but for the
fact ih'it the popular sentiment called*
I loudly for harmoriy,;Ca~* break followed
by a determined tight for control of
the convention, was among the pos
sibilities. But the united voice of the
party was against this and the lead
ers and campaign manageffrftwere
made to'understand that, whatever
their own feelings might be, the party
as *a : whole expected them to arrange
for a harmonious convention?and
they did, to the complete satlsfectfon
of all.
Representing every influential fac
tion in the State, the convention elect
ed by acclamation and unanimously
Gov. Henry D. Hatfield. Isaac T. Mann
of Bramwell( Senat^fjDavis Elklns of
Randolph: county fand|flercbel C. Og? >
den of.; Wheel In g. Mahn$l> regarded
as the representative of the Lilly sup
porters.
Fred Paul GrosBcup's name was also
presented with many seconds from
various counties.. Before a ballot was
taken Grbsscup took the stage and in
a speech\ oh generous* spirit, for still
more pronounced hSrmon^ withdrew,
his,name.
Alternates .choaen.^jffi^ga Lucius
Hoge of Harrison .countr>^obn Cum
(Continued on page 10.) ^. 1J
' Thomas Smith has re
signed his position at the
Baxter mines to becoma
general mine foreman for
the J. B. Company at Twin
Branch, McDowell Cotml
ty. Mr. Smith has been at
the Baxter mines for i?
months, and previous to.
that time had been a su
perintendent under theij
Consolidation Coal Com*i
NOTICE.
All denUl oBlcw will clora ?t II
o'cloclgMOT^apTaiitiiratyttr th?
remainder ol the d*y and arenlnf
