!
r r
VOL. XLVI
LEXINGTON, LAFAYETTE COUNTY, MISSOURI, FRIDAY, MAY 5, 1916.
NUMBER 18.
ILesdngton
lute
Wernwag-Taubman.
Tuesday evening at
four
Death of Mrs. Mary Schaberg. .CELEBRATED OPENING
Mrs. Mary Schaberg died Fri-i
BY WINNING TWO
o'clock Mr. William T. Wernwag day night at 6:40 o'clock at her
and Miss Laura Taubman were home in Wellington. Her death jjt Dentists and
united in marriage at the home (was due to complication of dis-! xown UoyS Copped Their
of the bride's parents, Mr. and eases. Opener.
Mrs. John Taubman, 111 North I Mrs. Schaberg was born in I The hnnphnll p;nn was form-
Sixteenth Street. The ceremony Missouri, October 16, 1844, and ally opene(j jn Lexington Wed- now to be thankful for is a Pure
S1X nesday. The Wentworth ol-;"T 7' AI,C " 1
was performed by Kev. K. JN. was seventy-one years
Allen, pastor of the Methodist months, and twelve days
OUR MILK SUPPLY j James McDowell A Suicide. j Circuit Court Jury.
.... j james McDowell committed Cirucit Court meets in regular
Unsurpassed in Purity. Lexing- suicide Tuesday morning at his session June 12. The petit jury
ton Dairy Company Has home on 20th Street, by shoot- for the term is as follows:
Model Plant. ing himself through the head; Clay Township Jonah T. Rin-
Among the many things that with a pump gun. The top of his er, Jos. Armstrong, and Wm.
the people of Lexington have head was blown off and death
Davis Township Wm. Klep-
old
diers met the Kansas City Den-
Dairy Company, composed of M.
was instantaneous.
Mr. McDowell had shown signs per, J. II. Barley and J. H. Hick
for some time that his brain was man.
Episcopal Church, South, of She is survived by one daughter, taj College, and the Town boys C' Mcfadm W. A. Esterbrook, ' eff ected. He labored under an; Dover Township L. E. Willis,
which the bride and groom are Mrs. August Limberg of Well- took on jra Bidwell's famous K.;Williams and Davis have erect hallunciation that a mob was af-'john Ray, Jr., and Wesley A.
both members. ,ington; three sons, Edward, of c Red Sox The gameg Were ed and e(luiPPed at the corner of ter him and only Monday mem- Feith.
Only the near relatives of the Lexington, and Theodore and preceded by' a parade of the W. EiShteentn and Franklin Sts., a bers of his family took a gun; Freedom Township Henry
contracting parties were present. Fred of Wellington. M A band and battalion, city mode sanitary milk plant. The away from him that he was Becker, George K. Morgan, and
The day was the forty-fifth an-! ihe tuneral was held from 0fficjaig fire deoartment clavers pianl 13 m charge 01 an exPeri flourishing in a dangerous man- Chas. Purnell.
niversary of the marriage of Mr. the home m Wellington, Sunday of all four teams and a number in tne nandllnS 01 dairy Pr- :ner.
and Mrs. Tauoman, ana tne auernoon ai ziov o ciock. ftf mninr ,., uucta, auu c ua at nmm cvcij M McDowell was fortv venrs
sixty-ninth birthday of Mr.
Taubman. At the conclusion of
thf- ceremony the bride v. ilh her
In the absence of Mayor Minor, convenience and up-to-date ma- ,d He .g suryived by one iMcintyre
Lexington Township Martin
Uphaus, Robert Howe and Thos.
A lraglC Death. 0; TTo,r TnV, P0,-v tncoo,1 .tnlne y WmCn lne mllK li PUL -fla.icrhtpr tlvo v-nr. nl anA Middlptnn TWnshinfkrar
Rev. R. N. Allen received a the first ball. in the best possible condition be-t t , . M , Thomas. Henry Fischer and D.
characteristic thoughfulness and telegram Saturday morning from j barren, the sorrel topped ladfore jt 13 passed on to the con- !dd respectively . two brothers,,T. Buck,
in experssion of love and devo-C. T. Hall, Carthage, Mo., stat-iof the sold5ers gtarted to twirl sumer. No one thing is left to gam and Frankj flnd twQ slsters j Sni-a-Bar Township A .M.
tion to her aged parents, gave ing that his mother's country 'against the Dentists. He lasted 'guess work' A simple y , Mrs. J. D. Wilson and Mrs. Geo. .Stanfield, George Sullivan and
her bouquet to her mother, the home, "Hallwood," burned Fri-i four .. when u&ny scientific process is used and Lankford) all of this city. ;N. J. Cameron,
bride of forty-five years ago. Af-day night, and that his mother, lins W- M As majnstay re. j cleanliness stands watch over He left the foliowing message Washington Township Henry
ter receiving the felicitations of Mrs. W. A. Hall and the latter s paced hjm The score was tied ery lT" . 'addressed to his brothers and ; Strucktemeyer, Julius Stoll and
. . . "11 1 ' 1 1 Jl A .
those present, refreshments were maia, Aima onaw, Durnea
served and then Mr. and Mrs. death. Ed Hall, a son was
.. . . 1H 1ill! l 'ltJ
Wernwag took the evening train Daaiy injured, tnai ne aiea &a gc0reless, and, although Warren
for Kansas City. ,uroay aiternoon. was taken from the box, he
10 .when Warren left the mound,
SO n y-t l fV01 i r c Via. A f Vin n r r ' o
Both the bride and groom are
Mrs. W.A.Hall had been a fre-d the hero of the dav for substance'
among the most highly respect-quent visitor in Lexington, and Wenworth. In the seventh and
ed people of our city. They were 'has many dear friends here who lagt innmg 0f that game, War-
born, raised and educated here, will mourn her tragic death
and have taken active parts in
the social and religious life of
the city. The Intelligencer joins
with their host of friends
ren was first man up and swatt
ed the pill over the left field
fence for a circuit drive, decid
ing the contest 6 to 5.
Batteries: Kansas City, Lucas
Marshall Blanked L. H. S.
The Marshall High School nine
in whitewashed the local boys Fri-
-wishing them all the good things aay aiternoon. ine score was and Reid. Wentworth, Warren,
in life. i7-0. The visiting hurler had the 1 Collins and Lovell Umpire,
locals at nis mercy, ianning 14 , Bates.
of them and allowing 5 hits.! rho nino tw Hpfpni Tv.
circles this
Red
inrrfnn in VicjqpViqII
iiugivu Ail vitkivMuti
Ira Bidwell's
Moose Elect Officers.
Howdy, P. A. P.! Lexington Marshall scored 6 of their seven
T siArra Mn 174 T. f) fi M Vipld x.ii: J
, AW' " "Vr" , " -.--7-iauies m ints secunu inmng un summer met
tneir regular meeting iasi nigni geveral hits and a couple of bob- gox of Kang
ana tne iouowmg omcers wn bles by the home boys,
elected: John Perry, Past Dicta-j in the fifth, inn;ng with the
tor; Clarence R. Deeser, Dicta-.bags ioaded, Lexington lost their
tor; Peter LeJune, Vice Dicta- best chance to count, when Hays
. v n r t t TIT
tor; jonr i Kanou, rreiate; vvm. whiffed Welsh collected two inon fan3 have been watching
LeJune, Secretary; Henry Vo-swat3 of the five made by the with interest to see if he could
cate, Treasurer; David House, localg. Batteries: Marshall, deliver the g00ds, was the great
Seargent at Arms ; Hubert Plan- Sheppers and Richart ; Lexington est factor in the defeat of the
chet, Inner Guard; Joe Lepsy, Egan and stewarti .. Hg them fQur
UUter uuara; james uoouman,
The milk when first received
is weighed and then put through i
the clarifier. This machine re-1
moves every particle of foreign
and then pass
es it on to the pastuerizer. Here
the milk is heated to 145 degrees
to destroy all germs. The part
to be bottled is then cooled be
low 50 degrees, and the part to
be separated is cooled to 90 de
grees for this process. The bot
tler is an automatic affair and as
the bottles are filled they are
placed in a refrigerator where
they are kept until delivered.
The cream is bottled as it comes
from the separator and that too
sisters :
To my brothers and sisters, I
will say I thank them all for any
and every service they did for
me, and I particularly ask Sarah
to take Theresa and raise her,
Frank and Hattie to keep Jim,
and Anna and John to take Rob-
Henry W. Leise.
Died in St. Joseph.
A. G. Williams, Jr., received a
telegram Tuesday announc
ing the death oi' Mrs. Elmira At
kinson, who died in St. Joseph,
Mo., Monday morning at 11:40
ert This I ask and I do not think o'clock. Mrs. Atkinson was born
they will lose anything by it jin Kentucky and was 83 years of
Love to all mv friends and neizh- !a?e'
bors, and, although, they may
The body was brought to
think I was an awful sinner, let I Lexington Tuesday night and
them remember me for the ideas
and simple services I gave them
and in all I know I did not live
in vain, though luck and fortune
went against me. Yet I have
iseen business after business
plays most of it's games travel
ing, and copped the initial fracus
6 to 1.
Lester Carmichael, who Lex-
perfect cleanliness.
The plant is electric lighted
taken to the Baptist church
where the body remained until
Wednesday morning. Services
were conducted by Rev. G. G.
Riggan.
All Drunk.
B. M. Rubey, J. II. Osborn and
Chas. Peterson were fined $1
Pete LeJune and Francis Mavel
trustees.
Refreshments
Police Court.
r1oAial in Via Tf ri rroiaf ni TT.vorv
sas City, a team that , , j r .
J f iitoncil w wncihpn nnfipn firm
sierilized before using to insure ,uu,u uvli
many noines, uiougn xiumuie
were made happy through
, , , .. t, , . i 1. J 1. u
and electric power is used with ,c. x ana cost ior ueing ururm uy
all the machines except the sepa- beenT a od fot or what not Judge Harry Mountain in Police
stpnni tnrhinp 1 UJe W1LU a idling mat i uourt luesaay morning.
have done good to the world and
that there would be a blank in
many a heart if I had not lived.
I sowed the seeds of kindness,
hits and as 14 of them whiffed
rator which is a
affair. The equipment consists
of a complete testing outfit, !
scales, a 250 pound churn, 200
gallon pastuerizer, clarifier, 4000
Mrs. J. H. Suddath of Harrison
ville returned to her home Wed
nesday after a visit here with
John Riley, a stranger, who ' zo"e- remembrances of Tim hour c ambition, benevolence and cour- M; flnd Mrfc Q
. ..M Vrirla fnr rli. Caldwell, last year s invincible onlWmf ,fJage no matter if there were bad i
and "Moose iwas arrested Friday for dis
moundmaster for the Lexington
Milk" beine served after the turbing the peace and being 1U tiers, refrigerator and steam
meeting, which were enjoyed to '.drunk was given 30 days in the Tf . ? f n boiler-
the fullest extent by all present, city holdover or 15 minutes to.minds r I""" enthusiastic ians.( The company inviteg its pat.
making the evening a very fav-, leave the city by Judge Harry, Joe Howe, the locals nrst sacK-rong tQ g.ye thdr pknt &
orableone. j Mountain in Police Court Sat-,er wnA ney" has mucn 'UCK thorough inspection, and it will
urday morning. Riley left. I11 f""-. be worth your while, as it is com-
X x ex DWlcu..plete in every detail.
Harry Shier went to Coon
Rapids, la., Saturday to join
a theatrical company now form
ing at that place.
I fw nri 1
1 UK 0 MY LL fi
MAYBE YOU NEED SOME HELP
In dih'rmininjc the cost of the material needed for some
necessary improvement?
All right! We are here to help you.
FipurinR estimates on UuildinR Material is as much a part
of our business as loading Lumber onto the wagon.
We have by far the best assortment of the best material
to select from, and if we can't show you a real money advantage
in buying from us, then you are at liberty to buy elsewhere
But get our estimate anyway.
We'll try to make you some very interesting figures.
"The Tard that Sarea and Satisfies.'
Mathew Kenney of Kansas City Gates and Stevens.
arrived Saturday for a few' The Athletics crossed tvith Music Club Elects Officers,
days' visit here with home folks, their first tally in the opening The music Club met Monday,
. . inning after two were out. They ' April 24, and elected the follow-
i counted one in the second, two in ing officers:
the sixth and added another pair Mrs. Hubert Bates, Director;
! in the eighth, while the only Mrs. J. C. Crenshaw, Vice-Direct-j
counter the red stocking boys'or; Miss Winifred Winn, Re
could get was a home run in the ; cording Secretary; Miss Kather
'seventh, made by their catcher. line Todhunter, Corresponding
The blow was a solid smack and Secretary ; Mrs. Wm. Bandon,
cleared the center field fence. Treasurer; Miss Annie Wood
j Fletcher, the portsided strike- Eggleston, Reporter; Mrs. John
out king of W. M. A. in 1915, Sturgis, Librarian,
iwas boss Bidwell's choice to hurl
against the locals. He was notj Civic Department Election, j
at his best and was found for 7 The civic department of the !
safeties; gave our boys plenty of Lexington Woman's Club has ;
free transportation and only six just held the last meeting of an,
of them fanned. eventful year. A goodly num- j
Since Morris McKnight of Kan- ber of public enterprise? have ,
sas City could not manage the been launched; some have been i
Lexington team, Stevens, of carried to a successful finish, j
Archie, Mo., will boss the athle- others will be worked out in due i
tes. lie played a star game yes- time. The members wish toj
.terday and should make a good thank the public for all its co-j
manager and be a valuable man operation and earnestly solicit
at the short field. He was a all the women in the town to
member the Rich Hill, Mo., team join this department and help
last year. make Lexington a better town.
I Batteries: Kansas City, Fletch- The following officers were elect
or and Lowk; Lexington, Car-ed for the ensuing year:
imichatl and Wikoff j Mrs. Felix Young, Director;
Mrs. J. Q. Ccpe, Vice-Director;
Mrs. W7m. Mellor and her two Mrs. B. B. Frazer, Secretary;
children of Wayne, Neb., arrived Miss Mary Henry, Treasurer;
Friday evening to visit her Mrs. J. W. Bills, Reporter; Mrs.
weed seed, among some of
!my sowing. We can not have all
I roses and no thorns and it is the
1 place of the gatherers of the
fields to see that the tears and
i weeds are kept from injuring the
crops of the growers. Forget the
bad and rememeber the good and
through the vales of Eternity I
will return in spirit and in faith
to bring to them a renewed har
vest. Well, I say good-bye to
all and may God forgive me for
the sins I have done. Help and
guide my children from the path3
maybe while wandering around, of sin and trouble. Good-bye.
Bargains
IN THE
LAMBERT LUMBER COMPANY
JOHN J. TRICE, Jlanager.
j parents, Mr. and Mrs. R. B. Ber- C E. Yingling, member of mem-
i-r-t?-??'f t-tttt? ttlff ft rie. .bership committee.
Ready -to -Wear
Room
We are offering our
entire Stock of Coats
and Suits at
1-4 Off
This includes the famous
" WOOL TEX GARMENTS"
mm
COME EARLY
And Get First Choice
rcamu&
