The Echo has a
reading circulation
of over 4,000 per
•on» who trade in
LeaVenwortn. Ad
vertise and increase
your business.
Vol. 13. No. 18
PRINTED REPORT Of
THIS CITY'S FINANCES
Is Misleading and Not Just— Beyond
Minor Irregularities in Book
keeping Nothing Wrong
Readers of this paper will recall a
■statement printed in the Wenatehee
World to the eflect that Leavenworth's
finances were in bad condition and that
the lown was found to be short of cash,
leading to the conclusion that funds
had been misappropriated.
Naturally we took more than usual
interest in the publication of the story
sent out from Olympia, and awaited
the filing of the report of the state's ac
countancy expert, Wm. S. Shank, who
was sent here to check up the books
ol the chy.
The certified report of the expert,
on file with City Clerk Brown does not
disclose or charge that any funds have
*been misappropriated. It is stated in
the report that former City Treasurer
Koerner was creless in his bookkeep
ing and failed to keep a correct ac
count, and that "Cancelled bonds,
warrants, interest coupons and receipts
were net filed, but were badly mixed
up, making a very tedious check."
Thii again from the report, "he was
shert in his cash, simply the result of
carelessness. The amounts short,
$60.49 and $53.50 * * when his
attention was called to the shortage he
immediately paid the amount to the
present city treasurer."
The report then goes on to state
that the city had no right to exceed
the amount of 844,000 authorized by
vote, in building the city water system,
and that the 918,000 spent in excess
of $44,000 was spent without author
ity of law.
The expert also makes the statement
that there was a deficit in 1915 of
$5,878.62. A careful checking up of
his report shows that he himself has
made some errors and as a matter of
fact, instead of a deficit the receipts
exceeded the expenditures by $185.23.
The total expenditures amounted to
$13,777.35 while the receipts were
$13,962.58.
Mr. Shank further states in his re
port that the indebtedness of Leaven
worth is within the legal limit.
The present city treasurer states that
during the past year more than $7,000
was paid on the city's indebtedness.
The expert sent here to check up
the city's books went out of his way to
remark incidentally that the affairs of
the city were in bad shape when as a
matter of exact fact the only statement
made in his report where any wrong
was done is his reference to the treas
urers' method of book keeping. Tho
in this connection be did not find
where the city had lost anything thru
this wrong book keeping. If he did
he neglected to point it out.
Qiumslick Road Open
County Road Supervisor Parrish was
here the first ol this week and said he
was repairing the bridges on the Chum
■tick road as rapidly as possible, and
making repairs to the road, and would
have the road open for travel by the
last ol this week. He expects to do
considerable work on this road later on
and when he gets thru he thinks it will
be in better condition for travel than it
has ever been before. It is necessary
to delay some repair work in order to
allow the earth to dry up so that re
pairs can be made.
Melum-tndiiutl
Miss Mabel Melum and Mr. M. C.
Endicott of Spokane were married Mon
day »t Wenatchee at the home of the
Baptist minister, who officiated.
The bride was attended by Mrs.
Gritimacher and Miss Aurilla Belling-
bam. Miss Melum will be recalled as
having been employed by Mr. Murray
in hit milliner; department last summer.
Charier and George Shugart, Beaver
creek ranchers, visited relatives and
friends in Leavrnworth Wednesday.
Zhe %eav>envportb lEcbo
The Opening Game
The Congressional Record shows
that congress was in session as usual on
the day of the opening of the ball sea
son. It does not show, however, that
400 of the 435 members of the lower
house were not in attendance in the
house —altho most of them were in
attendance at the ball park. Speaker
Clark passed the honor of presiding
over the affairs of the house to Repre
sentative Sisson of Mississippi, and
when he made the appointment the
representatives shouted with laughter —
for of all fans, Sisson is the most ar
dent. But he presided with dignity
over the remnant that was left to con
duct the affairs of the nation.
COLVILLE RESERVATION
TO BE OPENED JULY 5
Drawing in Spokane July 27—Spokane,
Wenatchee, Wilbur, Republic, Omak
and Colville Registration Points
The formal step for opening the Col
ville Indian reservation to settlement
was taken Wednesday. The proclama
tion fixes July 5 as the opening date
for registration which is to continue to
July 22. The drawing will take place
July 27 at Spokane. September 5 the
reservation will be thrown open to hold
ers of successful numbers to make their
selections. They will be given to Oc
tober 18 to make their designation of
land. After that date, if there be any
land remaining it will be thrown open
to general settlement.
Following are the official registration
points: Spokane, Wenatchee, Wilbur,
Republic, Omak and Colville.
Causes of Variation in Cream
Tests
The ranchers who deliver cream to
the buttermakers often find that their
cream varies in butter fat tests and are
at a loss to account for it. Sometimes
they suspect that they are not getting
a square deal and complain to the
Dairy Commissioner of the governmeni
agricultural department. The matter
was taken up and an investigation
made with the result that a circular was
issued in which the following state
ment was made.
''Careful investigation serves to prove
conclusively that it is impossible to run
a cream separater under ordinary farm
conditions without a variation in the
richness of the cream. This is not un
derstood by some farmers, and, as a
result there is some discontent if the
test of the cream delivered to the
creamery varies from time to time.
There are several factors which ef
feet the richness of cream, some of
which are directly under the control of
the produces, and some of which are
caused by conditions which we can not
regulate. The following are the m jst
important:
Speed of the Separater Bowl —This
is one of the most common causes of
variation in the cream test. The
higher the speed of the bowl the
smaller the amount of cream and the
higher the fat content; with a low
speed the opposite is true. Many a
hand-separator operator believes that
his machine is run at a uniform speed,
but experiments show that it is almost
impossible to maintain a uniform speed
unless a speedometer is used."
Thr talk of the town of late is Koer
ner's Superior Soda Service. Especial
mention is made of the excellent Ice
Cream he serves, both Strawberry and
Vanilla flavor, and the Chocolate Soda
which he makes. The sanitary paper
cups and dishes he uses in place of
glasses are making a great hit, and his
fountain is sure to be the popular
drinking nJace this season. 18*
J. B. Huff, proprietor of the Little
Delcnonico, who spent the past four
months in California, returned home
Wednesday.
Joe Vinton left this morning for Se
attle to be gone several days.
The Higher Up the Valley You Go the Bigger and Better the Apples Grow
Leavenworth, Wash., Friday, May 5, 1916
$16,000 TO BE SPENT
ON THE BLCWETT ROAD
County Will Spend $8000 and forestry
Department a Like Amount on
Work Starting Next Week
At a mcetiag of the county commis
sioners thit *eelc it was decided that
the improvement of this important road
would begin at once. Eijht thousand
dollars of cr unty road money will be
come availab'e at once. Just how the
eight thousat 1 appr^: riated by the for
estry department will b- spent and
when, has not been given out, but
Supervisor Sylvester may be depended
on to take care of the work and will
spend the morjav where it will do the
most good. Kittitas county spent con
siderable money improving her side of
the road last fall, but did not connect
up the improvement with the old road.
Road Overseer Parrish said yesterday
he would begin next week on this road
and make an effort to have it open for
travel between the twentieth and the
last of the month. From the mouth of
Ingalls creek down the; valley the road
is free from snow, but is quite soft in
claces. Substantial bridges are to take
the place of the old worn out ones.
Bridge umbers have already been or
dered for this work. This will form
part of Mr. Parrish's work the next few
weeks No part of the grade is to ex
ceed seven, or at most eight per cent.
Four Leaders of Irish Rebellion
Were Shot
Four of the leaders —Patrick H.
Pearce, provisional president of the
proposed Irish republic; James Con
nolly, commanding general of thearmyj
Thos. J. Clark and Thomas MacDonagh,
were tried by court martial in London,
Tuesday, and sentenced to be shot.
The sentence was promptly carried out.
Three others were sentenced to three
years imprisonment. What disposition
will be made of the woman leader in
the movement has not been decided.
Riots in Germany May Ist
A Holland dispatch of May 2 states
that serious riots broke out the first of
May in a number of German cities, and
that a number of persons were killed
and wounded. Women of the laboring
classes were numerous among the riot
ers. In Leipsic there was a food riot
and a number killed. Dr. Leibknecht,
leader of the socialists, was arrested.
Pittsburg Labor Riots
A serious labor riot at Pittsburg, Pa.,
May Ist, in which two were killed and
four fatally wounded, is one of the May
day incidents in our own country.
Thirty thousand New York garment
workers are on a strike, with a prospect
that the number will be doubled by the
end of the week.
Leavenworth Couple Obtain License in
A marriage license was issued in
Spokane last Tuesday to Edward Rey
nolds and Miss Ruth Sharpe. Both
gave Leavenworth as their place of res
idence and declared they were of legal
age.
A fire was seen Tuesday night in the
hills south of town and it was feared
that mill No. 2 of the Leavenworth
Lumber Co., located on the Mountain
Ranch, was in flames. The forest office,
however, reported that it was a brush
fire made by rangers to clean up as a
precaution against forest fires later on.
Mr. and Mrs. Charles Eckhardt re
ceived a visit last Saturday from the
latter's son, Charles Austin, of Seattle.
Mr. Austin is an automobile salesman
and says every indication points to busi
ness prosperity all over the coast.
The official opening of the West
Okanogan irrigation project will take
place June 7th and Bth. The tract
embraces 10,000 acres.
Oliver Bates was down from Wenat
chee lake Wednesday.
College Girl's Soul Longs for Freedom
Defying paternal authority and scorn
ing present day methods of education.
Miss Violette Wilson, daughter of J.
S. Wilson, the former mayor of Berke
ley, Cal., has withdrawn from the Uni
versity of California. She announced
that it was her intention to develop her
own soul and that she intended to get
an education from real life and not one
the whole significance of which lay in
a college diploma. Miss Wilson reg
istered in letters and sciences at the
university last August, but after a few
months decided that her studies were
hampering rather than assisting her
mental growth. So, despite the wishes
of her parents, she left the classroom.
Road from Winton to Lake We-
natchee Open
George Siverly, who lives at the head
of Lake Wenatchee and is district road
overseer in tha: section, was here Tues
day and said on Monday, with a four
horse team and the help of his brother,
R. H. Siverly, George Dean, George
Brown and his four sons, Lester, Harry,
Earl and Ira, he succeeded in opening
the road between the lake and Winton.
With the exception of the pine flat
near the foot of the lake, where consid
erable snow shoveling had to be done
the road is comparatively free of snow.
In a week or ten days, if the warm
weather of the past few days continues,
the road to the lake will be in fair con
dition for travel. The Wenatchee river
is higher now, says Mr. Siverly, than at
any time last year and he looks for
high water in the next thirty days, and
possibly some damage in low-lying
lands. Oliver Bates has promised the
White river settlers a Fourth of July
dinner if they will get the White river
road open in time to come down to the
j celebration.
Marking the Scenic Highway
One of those fellows that go thru the
country marking the automobile roads,
supposedly in the employ of the Auto
mobile Association, was here this week
making all kinds of cabalistic signs on
the buildings, posts, trees and bridges.
The colors for the Scenic Highway, we
are told, are blue and white. If you
see a blue eye in a white circle, that
means that somewhere nearby there is
a gasoline supply station. A blue
square on a wnite ground is the sign
of a tourist hotel that makes a specialty
of taking in automobile tourists. A
big blue R on a white ground means
turn to the right at the first corner. A
blue L on a white ground means turn
to the left at the first turn in the road
and you will always be on the Scenic
Highway. This route connects with
the Snoqualmie Highway at Wenatchee.
A Drop in Cotton
Two flat cars loaded with bales of
cotton, several of them broken open,
was an unusual scene in the railroad
yards here yesterday and caused con
siderable comment. The fleecy staple
from Southern farms is part of a ship
ment on the way to Russia. The box
car containing it broke out from a west
bound freight train yesterday morning
and tumbled from the Chumstick tres
tle to the creek sixty feet below. We
are informed that some of the cotton
floated down the Wenatchee river and
is now well on its way to the Pacific
ocean. As the head end of the train
was close to the yards, speed had slack
ened and the cars in the rear of the
break, traveling on momentum, coupled
up with those ahead. The c*use of
the accident is unknown.
Dr. Hoxsey a Presidential Elector
Mayor Day and Dr. G. W. Hoxsey
went to Yakima the first of this week
in Mr. Day's new auto as delegates to
the democratic convention returning
Wednesday. The proceedings of the
convention show that Dr. Hoxsey was
made one of the democratic presiden
tial electors from this state.
M. A. Marley left yesterday after
noon for North Yakima to take part in
the republican state convention.
THE CHEIAN COUNTY
REPUBLICAN CONVENTION
Passed Off Quietly—Only Old Liners Put
on Guard—Progressives Sup
plied Olive Branch
Hon. Merritt Field of Stehekin was
elected temporary chairman and Mr.
Blank Blank temporary secretary. The
usual resolutions were adopted and
thirteen delegates to the state conven
tion were elected. Mr. A. H. Mohler
of Cashmere was elected permanent
chairman and L. W. Woodrow of Leav
enworth, permanent secretary.
The old line republicans were in en-
I tire control. The progressives were
not treated discourteously, but they re
ceived slight, if any, recognition in the
division of such honors as the conven
tion had to bestow.
Following are the delegates to the
Yakiraa convention: M. A. Marley
and J. B. Adams, Leavenworth; M. E.
Field and George Brown, Lake Chelan;
A. H. Mohler and J. D. Corselius,
Cashmere; T. C. Atkinson, Entiat;
E. M. Gillett, W. D. Shultz, E. S. Rus
sell, W. F. Whitney and A. A. Bous
quet, Wenatchee; Henry Patrick, Mal
aga. |
Tragic Death of Elijah Jordan
Elijah Jordan, wuo, with his father
in-law, Cal Young, has been working
on a logging contract on the head of
the Swakane, about eight miles north
of Cashmere, was instantly killed Wed
nesday morning by a rolling log. The
unfortunate man was loading logs from
a skidway and, after getting the first
log on his truck, was crouching low to
secure it with the chains when another
log rolled down and crushed his head.
The remains were brought to Leaven
worth Wednesday afternoon and laid
to rest in the local cemetery yesterday,
the funeral arrangements being under
the supervision of the Yeomen lodge,
of which organization Mr. Jordan was a
member. His life was insured for
$1000. He leaves a wife and four lit
tle children. Mr. Jordan was about
forty years of age and came to this
part of the country several years ago
from Kentucky. He owned a valuable
homestead on the Chiwawa river near
Lake Wenatchee and was well liked
by his neighbors and numerous ac
quaintances.
Featherstone-Reid Wedding
The marriage of Miss Edna Feather
stone and Mr. C. Warren Reid of We
natchee, took place Tuesday at high
noon at the home of the bride's parents
in North Leavenworth, Rev. J. A.
Laurie of Wenatchee, officiating. The
wedding was a very quiet affair, attend
ed only by the relatives and intimate
friends of the couple, among whom
were, beside the bride's family: Mrs.
Reid and daughter, Miss Margaret, and
Mr. and Mrs. J. H. Garrett of Wenat
chee.
The bride was attended by Miss Bes
sie Walker, while Mr. Thomas Pipkin
was best man. Following the ceremony
a very attractive luncheon was served
the wedding paity. The young couple
left on No. 1 for the coast. Their fu
ture home will be in Wenat-hee. Miss
Featherstone is a very charming and
attractive young lady and has long
been popular in Leavenworth society.
Mr. Reid formerly made his home here
while he was in charge of the Cash
Store, but recently moved to Wenat
j chee. where he is employed by Mr.
Garrett.
fine Home Destroyed by Fire
A fire originating in the ice house
and woodshed, and conveyed to other
I buildings, destroyed the fine country
home of E. K. Harvey, near Peshastin,
i late last Sunday evening. A heroic
• effort was made to save the home but
! lack of water and lack of immediate as
sistance made it impossible. Most ol
the furniture was saved. The lots is
estimated at about $5,000, with $3,000
| insurance. Mr. Harvey is one of the
, old time residents of the Peshastin val
' ley and his loss is universally regretted.
. SUilt. Library
Olympia wa.-h
f™ — *-- - —
High Class printing
at reasonable prices,
come to this office.
$1.50 Per Year
Is the United States in Danger of a
Landed Aristocracy
Last Saturday in the United States
senate Senator Sheppard, a democrat of
Texas, said that the United states was
menaced by a rapidly increasing aris
tocracy of land owners and proposed a
constitutional amendment to authorize
congress to purchase land anywhere in
the country, hold, improve, sub-divide
and sell it, and make loans for the pur
pose of encouragiug farm home owner
ship. The amendment, he said, was
similar to one adopted in the state of
Massachusetts and approved more than
three to one by a popular vote.
School Notes
The Freshman class is planning a
picnic Saturday. The eighth grade
will also have one tomorrow.
The Sophomore class enjoyed a
weinie roast on the Wenatcbee river
Tuesday evening. The entertainment
was completed by a hike to Peshastin
and an auto ride home.
The annual exhibit of work done in
the Manual Training and Domestic
Science departments will be shown iv
the High school building today. The
doors will be open at 3:30 and aeain
in the evening.
Last Friday was Senior day. All Sen
iors appeared in full dress (?) costume.
The first period in the morning was
given over to them, when they read
their class prophecy, last will and tes
tament and gave advice to Freshmen.
They also presented the Juniors with
a loving cup. In the afternooa the
faculty was treated to all-day-suckers
by the generous Senior boys. The
Senior banner now floats in the breeze
undisturbed.
Last Thursday evening the Juniors
gave an eight-course banquet in honor
of the Senior class. There were twenty
nine present, including the Juniors,
Seniors and faculty. The room was
decorated in High school colors. Mr.
Lancefield was toastmaster. Those
who responded to toasts were Joe Fitz
patrick, Emma Schneider, Roswell
McNett and Prof. Osborn. The Fresh
man girls served the banquet under
direction of Miss Danby.
The grand school exhibit and pro
gram which was given on Friday proved
very pleasing to a large number of par
ents and friends. The exercises in
each room were thoroly enjoyed, and
the specimens of written work and art
gained much favorable comment.
Commencement exercises will be
held Friday, 8 d. m., at the Scenic.
Following is the program:
Fairyland - - High School Chorus
Salutatory - - - - Gladys West
Charge to Juniors - - Pres. Seniors
Reply ----- p re s. Juniors
Perfect Day - Senior Girls' Quartet
Valedictory - - Donald Mclntosh
Solo—lf I Forget
Genevieve FitzDatrick
Address - - Prof. Wellington Pegg
Goodnight, Goodnight, Beloved
High School Chorus
Presentation of Diplomas
. Pres. School Board
BASE BALL NOTES
Waterville defeated Leavenworth in
a spectacular game at Waterville Sun
day. Both teams had on their batting
clothes, Waterville making thirteen
hits while Leavenworth grabbed ten.
Mahoney starred at bat for the losers,
getting two home runs and a single.
The umps was the star for the Water
villes. With the help of the rest ol
the team he quieted any uprising our
boys attempted. Score 11 to 3.
Wenatchee plays here Sunday and
promises to give us a battle royal. •
Attend May Day festivities in Wenatchee
Among those who went to Wenat
chee Monday to attend the May Day
festivities in that city we note Mrs. O.
S. Sampson and her daughter, Mrs.
Little, who had been here on a visit.
Mrs. M. A. Marley and Mrs. Kidd, ac
companied B. C. Rutherford, who mo
tored down in the afternoon. Mr. and
Mrs. F. S. Jacobsen also motored to
I the county seat and took in the show.
