oflfl TVTUT <1 fl nppgnp-
MMMt . a iwA A/KKi AtU-Mk© LUS
LEVE.NTH VICAR. No. 4fi
IM.AIMUD homesteads.
At tiie request of a correspondent
to publish herewith the full text of
in act pending in congress providing
tor I lie taking up of 040 acres under
lie homestead law. This act has passed
he house and is now pending in the
citato, with excellent prospects for
ts passage. It is of particular import
iiice to the people of tills county, and
he entire bill is published so that all
hlerested may familiarize themselves
vith its provisions:
An :ut to provide* for .stock raising
loinepl'M'is, and foi other purpose*.
He it enacted by the senate and house of
cpresentallves of the United Slates of
imericu ami congress assembled: That
rotn and after the passage of this act it
hull he lawful for any person iiUHlitled
n make entry under the homestead laws
I the United States to make a stork
nisi tig homestead entry for not exceeding
ix hundred and forty acres of unan
ropriated unreserved public laud in reas
naole compact form: Provided, however,
hat the land so entered shall theretofore
avc been designated by the secretary of
lie interior as ’ stock raising lands.
Section 2—That the secretary of tiie in
erior is hereby authorized, on application
r otherwise, to designate as stock-raising
ind* subject to entry under tills act,
amis, the surface of which is. in ills oplu
nn. » hiefly valuable for forage and Braz
il crops, do not contain merchantable
linher, are not susceptible of irrigation
rom any known source of water supply,
nd are of such character that i»4O acres
ip reasonably required for the support
f a family: Provided. That where any
ci son qua Idled to make original or addl
ioiial entry under the provisions of this
i I shall make application to entry to any
inapproprlated public land which has not
ecu designated as subject to entry (pro
ided said application Is accompanied and
upported by p rope sly corroborated affl
avlt of the applicant, In duplicate, show*
ig prinm facie that the land applied for
i of the character contemplated by this
ct), such application together with the
cgular fees and commissions, shall he
ecelved by the register and receiver of
he land district in which said land is lo
ated and suspended until it shall have
cen determined by the secretary of tiie
iterior whether said land Is actually of
hat character. That during such suspen
iun the land described in the application
hall not be disposed of; and if the said
and shall he designated under tills act,
lien such application shall be allowed;
Kherwisc it shall he rejected, subject to
ppeal.
Section 3. —That any qiiaiitied homestead
ntryman may make entry under tiie
lomestead laws of lands so designated by
he secretary of the Interior, according to
egal subdivisions, in areas not exceeding
ix hundred and forty acres, and in corn
act form so far as may be subject to the
►revisions of this act. and secure title
hereto hy compliance with tiie terms of
lie homestead laws: Provided, That a
ormer homestead entry of the land of
lie character described In section two
lereln shall not be a bar to the entry of
tract within a radius of twenty miles
rom such former entry under tiie provls
cns of tills ad. subject to tiie require
nents of law as to residence and improve
ments. which together with the former
•ntry. shall not exceed six bunded and
orty acres: Provided further. That In
ilead of cultivation, as required by the
lomestead laws the entryman shall he re
luired to make permanent improvements
apon the land so entered before final proof
s submitted tending to increase the value
>f the same for stock raising purposes, of
he value of not less than $1.25 per acre,
nd at least one-half of such improve
nents shall he placed upon tiie land witli
n three years after the date of the entry
hereof. 4
Section 4.—That any homestead entry
nan of lands of the character herein des
ribed. who has not submitted final proof
ipon his existing entry, shall have the
Ight to enter, subject to the provisions
f this act. such amount of contiguous
unds designated for entry under the pro
fusions of this act as shall not, together
vlth the amount embraced in his original
in try, exceed six bunded and forty acres,
aid ' residence upon tlie original entry
hall he credited on both entries, but
mprovements must he made on the addl
lonal entry equal to $1.25 for each acre
hereof.
Section 5. —That persons who have suh
nitted final proof upon, or received patent
or, lands of the character herein des
rlhed under the homestead laws, and who
iwn and reside upon the land so acquired,
nav subject to the provisions of tlds act
nake additional entry for and obtain
latent to contiguous lands designated for
mtrv under the provisions of this act
vhlch, together with the area theretofore
icqulred under the homestead law, shall
lot exceed six bunded and forty acres, on
iroof of the expenditure required by tills
let on account of permanent Improve
nents upon tire additional entry.
Section 6.—'That any person who is the
lead of a family, or who has arrived at the
ige of 21 years and is a citizen of the
I'nlted States, who has entered or ac
pdred tinder the homestead laws, prior
:'o the passage hereof, lands of the char
icter described In this act. the area of
which is less than 640 acres, who is un
able to exercise the rights of additional
entry herein conferred because no lands
subject to entry under this act adjoin the
trait so entered or acquired or lie within
the twenty mile limit provided for in this
ac t, may,'upon submitting proof that he
resides upon and has not sold the land so
entered or acquired and against which
land there are no encumbrances, relin
quish or recover to the United States the
land so occupied, entered, or acquired,
and in lieu thereof, within the same land
office district, may enter and acquire ti
tle to six hundred and forty acres of the
land subject to entry under this act. but
must show compliance with the provisions
of this act respecting the new entry and
with all the provisions of tills act re
specting the new entry and with all the
provisions of existing homestead laws
except as modified herein; Provided. I hat
tin* lands so relinquished or reconveyed as
herein provided shall thereafter be sub
ject to disposition only on such terms and
under such rules ami regulations us the
score tars of the interior may prescribe.
Section 7.- That the commutation pro
visions of tiie homestead laws shall not
apply to any entries made under tills act.
Section B.—That any homestead entry
man or patentees who shall be entitled to
additional entry under this act shall have,
for ninety days after the designation of
lands subject to entry under the provis
ion of this act and contiguous to those
entered or owned and occupied by him.
the preferential right to make addllional
er.trv as provided In this act: Provided.
That where such lands contiguous to the
lands of two or more entry men or paten
tees entitled to additional enries under
this section are not sufficient In area to
enable such entrymen to secure by add*-
tiomil entry the maximum amounts to
which they are entitled, the secretary of
the interior is authorized to make an
equitable division of the lands among the
several entrymen of patentees, applying
to exercise preferential rights, such divis
ion to tic in tracts of not less than forty
acres, or other legal subdivision and so
made as to equalize as nearly as possi
ble the area which such • entry man and
patentees will acquire by adding the
tracts embraced in additional entries to
the lands originally held or, owned by
them: Provided further, That where but
one such tract of vacant land may adjoin
the lands of two or more t-qtrymeu or
pa Lon toes entitled to exercise preferential
riitlit hereunder, the»tract in question
may li entered hy the person who llrsl
submit to the local land office his appli
cation to exercise said preferential riant.
Section it; — That any person who lias
heretofore acquired title to land of the
character designated in this act under any
of the homestead laws of the United
States and who is the owner and occu
pant of the land so acquired may purchase
from the United States not exceeding
three hundred and twenty acres of stock
raising land, as designated hy this act. or
unappropriated and reserved lands valu
able only lor grazing contiguous to his
said homestead entry, upon paying to tiie
United States the sum of tl.L’a per acre
for such lands, under such rules and reg
ulations as may he prescribed by the sec
retary of the interior, which said land,
together with the area theretofore acquir
ed under the homestead laws, shall not
exceed six hundred and forty acres.
Section 10.—That all entries made and
patents issued under the provisions of this
act shall he subject to ami contain a res
ervation to the United Stales of all the
coal and other minerals in the lands so
entered and patented, together with the
right to prospect for, mine and remove the
same. The coal and other mineral deposits
in such lands shall he subject to disposal
by the United States in accordance with
the provisions of tlie coal and mineral lanu
laws in force at the time of such disposal.
Any person qualified to locate and enter
tlie coal or other mineral deposits, or hav
ing the right to mine and remove tlie
same under tlie laws of the United States,
shall have the right at all times to enter
upon tlie lands entered or patented, as
provided by this act, for tlie purpose of
prospecting for coal or other mineral
therein, provided he shall not injure, dam
age or destroy the permanent Improve
ment of the entryman or patentee, and
shall be liable to and shall compensate the
entryman or patentee for all damages to
the crops on such lands by reanson or
such prospecting. Any person who has
acquired from the United States the
coal or other mineral deposits in any such
land, or the right to mine and remove the
same, may reenter and occupy so much of
the surface thereof us may be required
for all purposes reasonably incident to the
mining or removal of the coal or other
minerals, first upon securing the written
consent or waiver of the homestead entry
man or patentee; second, upon payment of
the damages to the crops or other tangi
ble Improvements to the owner thereof,
where agreement may be had as to the
amount thereof; or. third, in lieu of
either of the foregoing provisions, upon
the execution, of a good and sufficient
bond or undertaking to the United States
for the use and benefit of the entryman or
owner of the land, to secure the payment
of such damages to the crops or tangible
Improvements of the entryman or owner,
as may be determined and fixed in an ac
tion brought upon the bond or undertak
ing in a court of competent jurisdiction
against the principal and sureties thereon,
such bond or undertaking to be in form
and accordance with the rules and regu
lations prescribed by the secretary of tlie
Interior and to be filed with and approv
ed by the register and receiver of the local
hind office of the district wherein the
land Is situate, subject to appeal to the
commissioner of the general land office:
Provided. That all patents issued for the
coal or other mineral deposits herein re
served shall contain appropriate notations
declaring them to be subject t<» the pro
visions of this act with reference to the
disposition, occupancy, and use of the
land as permitted to an entryman under
this act.
Section II. —That lands containing water
holes or other bodies of water needed or
used by the public for watering purposes
shall not be designated under this act but
may be reserved under the provisions of
the act of June 25. 1910, and such lands
heretofore or hereafte* reserved shall be
kept and held open to the public use for
such purposes under such general rules
and regulations as the secretary of the
interior may. In his discretion, designate
as stock driveways and withhold from
entry under this act lands not over one
fourth mile in width needed for use in the
movement id stock to summer and winter
ranges or to shipping points.
Section 12.—That the secretary of the
interior is hereby authorized to make all
necessairy rules and regulations in har
mony with the provisions and purposes of
this act for the purpose of carrying the
same into effect.
AX UNPLEASANT DILEMMA.
Geo. Unrtell had a very unpleasant
experience on a trip to Fairview late
Tuesday evening. Me had been engaged
to take a party to the British Columbia
town, a few miles across the line,
which has suddenly become a popular
resort. It is necessary to report to the
Canadain customs officer at Osoyoos
when breaking into foreign soil, and
few, if any, ever overlook the custom.
Mr. Bartell stopped at the customs of
fice and tried to arouse the officer,
but could get no response. Supposing
that the officer was at Fairview, Mr.
Bartell placed a note under the door
giving the number of his car, his li
cense number and his name, as has
been done frequently by other travel
ers. On his return trip he was met by
the customs officer, who made him re
turn to Fairview, and sequestered the
car. Mr. Bartell had to hire a car in
order to reach home. Why this arbi
trary action is not known. Possibly
there has been complaint about people
going across the line for the purpose
of getting liquor and the officer aims
to put an end to the practice. In this
case Mr. Bartell was perfectly Inno
cent of wrong doing and there were no
grounds for harsh action. We have al
ways found Dr. Germain a very cour
:coub and accommodating official, and
he has his reasons or he would not
have taken this drastic measure.
SI Mll. KAME E X ROD Ml XG.
The Siinilkameen river is booming
up with violent activity. It is rising at
the rate of over a foot a day, and it the
present weather continues this valley
is to see the highest water since 1894.
Six feet more of water will put the
power plant out of commission, and
that has not happened in a dozen years.
The only hope for relief is a change
of weather. Should it cool off within
a few days danger of Immediate high
water would be staved off. As we go
to press there is no sign of cooling, and
it will be well to keep an eye on the
thermometer and commence building
arks.
OROVILLE, WASHIN ITON. MAY 5. 191 C
A> OPTIMISTIC PIONEER.
Otto Schwartz, who was among the
very first settlers in Okanogan county
only one or two white men antidating
his arrival, came in last Thursday from
Los Angeles, where he has been resid
ing for the past three or four years,
and is here to stay for some time. He
still owns a cholee ranch on White
stone lake, whore he lived for a great
many years, and will devote his time
while here to Improving (hat property.
Mr. Schwartz thinks that few of the
rosidenls of Oroville fully appreciate
the importance of the big irrigation
system, or realize the wonderful chan
ges for the better that will follow its
instillation and use. Mr. Schwartz has
traveled extensively In Southern Cali
fornia and Ar-zona, and has seen whut
irrigation has accomplished in locall
lles that are absolute deserts without
water. Being of tin observing turn of
mind, and bent upon securing infor
mation upon the subject. he took
special pains to ascertain by inspec
tion and interrogation the results that
followed the application of water to
erstwltlle barren lands, and ho found
(hem to have been marvelous.
Mr. Schwartz declares that litis
country lias many advantages over tiie
hot temperatures of the far south,
both in soil and climatic conditions. Of
course tiie south produces choice citrus
fruits, but none of the common fruits
of consumption grown dow nthere,
such as "peaches, apricots, plums, ap
ples and pears, will compare in size,
appearance and flavor with those pro
duced in the Okanogan valley. He says
that some of the first class hotels of
l.os Angeles make a specialty of serv
ing Oregon and Washington apples.
Mr. Schwartz fairly waxes eloquent
when expatiating upon the desirability
o!' Okanogan as a place of residence,
and the possibilities of the country.
Under irrigation in the south land is
held at from sr>oo upwards per acre,
and there is little chance of further
increase In value, in this valley choice
lands can now be purchased at from
SSO to SIOO per acre, and every year
will see a steady increase in values. As
a place for a home, with oportunlty for
certain and rapid prosperity, Mr.
Schwartz is confident that no section
of the west holds out such flattering
promise and inducements as right here
under the West Okanogan Valley Irri
gation system.
SCHOOL MEET.
The annual athletic county school
meet takes place at Brewster today
and tomorrow, Friday and Saturday.
It is expected that representatives
from all of the high schools In the
county will he in the lists, and indica
tions point to one of the best attended,
most exciting and interesting meets
that has ever taken place In the county.
It is expected that a number of fans
will accompany the boys from this
place and the trip will be well worth
while. The following lads will put
forth the best that is In them for the
honor of the Orovllle high school, and
patrons of the home school trust that
they may make a creditable record:
50 yard dash—Prince, Mallory or
Carrel.
100 yard dash —same entries.
220 yard dash—same entries.
Shot put—Prince and McMahan
Discus—McMahan.
High jump—Ashby and Ford.
Running broad jump—Dallam and
Mallory.
Standing broad jump—Cole and
Prince.
Hurdles —Cole and Dallam.
Mile Run —Cole.
Pole vault —Mallory.
Relay race—Price, Mallory, Carrel,
Cole or Dallam.
Tennis—Boys doubles— McMahan
and Ford.
Hoys singles—McMahan.
Girls singles—Lorine Bartell.
Declamatory contest —Dallam
BENEFIT LECTURE.
Father Thomas E. Sherman, of
Loomis, was in Oroville Saturday, and
while here announced that he would
deliver a lecture in Strong’s theatre,
at Tonasket, this Friday evening, May
5, on the subject of “Preparedness.”
The lecture is for the benefit of the
Catholic church of Tonasket, of which
Father Sherman is in charge for the
time. The church is still unfinished
and considerably in debt, and he is in
hopes of being able to diminish that
debt and eventually complete the
church. The subject of his lecture is
one of vital importance at this time
when the country seems to be in a
crisis relative to its foreign relations.
Father Sherman 1s one of the most elo
quent talkers in the west, and any lec
ture delivered by him is sure to be in
tensely interesting and instructive. It
is very short notice of the proposed
lecture, but it is hoped that a number
from Oroville will drive down to our
neighboring town and attend.
AFTER MANY DAYS.
After years of procrastination, after
numerous inexcusable postponements,
after the unwinding of miles of red
tape, after hard and persistant effort
on the part of commercial organiza
tions, the press and individuals, after
diligent labor on the part of the dele
gation In congress from this state the
Colville Indian reservation is at last
to be thrown open to entry. A definite
date has been fixed, and the proclama
tion anonuncing this event, so Import
ant to Okanogan and Ferry counties
in particular . was signed by the pres
ident Tuesday. There is no danger now
of further postponement. The opening
will be an established fact in the near
future. The date for registration is
only two months away and tiie final
opening takes place In the full. The
people of this part of the state can see
the consummation of a long desired
object, that has dragged along through
so many years that they had almost
lost hope.
So much has been said In public
print about the government lands on
tills reservation that the general char
acter and extent ts known throughout
the country, and so much interest has
been aroused (hut a grand rush for
registration can he expected at the six
places that will he designated in the
proclamation where registrations will
be accepted. Many hundreds of people
will no doubt register and hundreds
will go upon tiie reservation In person.
Undoubtedly many more will register
titan can be supplied with homesteads.
The official opening Is bound to at
tract a large number of homeseekers
to Okanogan county, and it is not at all
improbable that some of these who
fail to draw prizes In the land lottery
may decide to Invest in improved and
unimproved lands In the valley. The
opening of the reservation will prove
an Immense benefit to the county, not
alone on account of settling up a large
vacant territory, but In attracting at
tention to this rich yet comparatively
virgin section of the west.
The announcement of the opening is
contained In the following despatches
frmiv Washington, published in the
Sunday issues of the dally papers:
On July 5 registration to participate
in the drawing for rights to take home
steads on the Colville Indian reserva
tion will begin at Spokane and several
other places In Eastern AVashington.
Registration will continue until July
22nd.
July 27 the drawing will be held at
Spokane.
September sth the reservation will
b«' thrown open to the holders of suc
cessful numbers to make their selec
tions. They will be given until Oct. 18
to do this. On that date the remaining
land If there be any will be thrown
open to general settlement.
FIRST ANNOUNCEMENT.
The first political announcement of
a candidate for county office appears
in this issue of the Gazette. The gen
tleman who has shied his hat in the
ring is Ted Maloney, of Spring Culee.
Ted Maloney requires no introduction
to the old timers of Okanogan county,
for he is one of the oldest of old timers
and one of the most popular of those
ancient citizens. This is not an inti
mation that Ted himself is a decrepit
old gink. He is about as active as any
twenty-year-older in the county. He
landed here young. The climate of Oka
nogan county has a tendency to keep
a man young, and Mr. Maloney is the
youngest man for his years that can
be found in a month’s travel. No one
can know Ted Maloney without liking
him, and hence his friends in the coon
ly are legion. He is out for sheriff on
the republican ticket, and if he secures
the nomination he would be elected,
and when elected he would make a
sheriff without a peer in the stale.
AN ENTHUSIASTIC CONVENTION.
In another column is given the full
proceedings of the republican county
convention, held at firewater Saturday
last. That report gives only the cold
official record of the work performed.
It is not within the province of the sec
retary of such a body to set forth the
spirit manifested and the feeling that
animated the delegates taking part.
That is left to the scribes present, and
for those who participated to repeat to
friends and neighbors. A more opti
mistic feeling of confidence in the suc
cess of a party we have never seen ex
hibited at any county convention, and
in our time we have taken part in
many. Since the nominations for office
was turned over to the tender mercies
of the primary the pep and drawing
power of party conventions has been
extracted, hence people take little or
no interest in those political gather
ings any more. In this instance all
there was for the convention to do was
to select twelve delegates to attend the
state republican convention held at
North Yakima, May 6. That party duty
was so simple and so deprived of con
troversial possibilities that there was
really no Inducement for men to at
tend tiie convention. Besides, this is
tiie busy season of the year and few
would consider it worth while to lose
a day when so little was to be done.
We really only expected to see a dozen
delegates present. Instead of that mea
gre few a very large representative
body of men collected on this
occasion, representing precincts from
various parts of the county, some
traveling a long distance to he present.
What added to the pleasure of seeiug
so much interest taken In the meeting
was Hie marked enthusiasm and fra
ternal feeling manifested. Even In the
county conventions of the old days we
have never seen more keen Interest
taken In party welfare than on this oc
casion. There were no contests, every
thing passed off pleasantly and har
moniously. Every reference to the
prospective success of Hie party was
received with lively applause, and the
resolutions presented were adopted
with ringing and continuous exhibi
tions of approval, evidence in itself
that republicans are wide awake,
ready for tiie fray and certain of a
sweeping victory at the November
election.
11l HAL BOUTS STARTED.
Monday morning service on rural
route No. 1 started from the local
postoffice, and Tuesday morning the
mall carrier covered rural rou*e No.
2, so at lust the long promised rural
service is In active operation to the
convenience and accomodation of a
large number of residents along the
two lines. Both routes coves- 25 miles
of territory. No. 1 extends up Into the
Ellemeham country, and No. 2 covers
the territory on both sides of the
river from Oroville to EBisforde. The
routes are served on alternate days. On
the first run out 200 pieces of mail
were delivered over both routes. Tills
amount will steadily increase. Alva
Hitching is in temporary charge of the
routes. Several persons took the re
quired examination, hut as yet no per
manent appointment has been made
by the department. The establishment
of service increases the work at the
postoffice, as mall Intended for the
routes must be seggregated every day.
A new distribution table is to arrive
in a few days from San Francisco. This
table is for use of the mail carrier to
sort out mail designated for each route,
it will require a little time for the
carrier to familiarize himself with the
routine of the service, but when he
lias each mail box ’ocated his work
will be very materially lessened.
TIMELY HELP.
The hill providing for the appropria
tion of $95,000 to pay toward the con
struction of the West Okanogan Valley
Irrigation project has been approved
by the conference committee on the
Indian appropriation bill, which in
sures the passage of a bill through
congress and the final payment of the
money into the district. The appropri
ation is for the purpose of meeting the
cost of putting water on a number of
Indian allotments in the valley under
the system, and is no more than the
same amount of land owned by white
settlers pays for the same purpose.
This appropriation is only fair and
just, as the Indian lands, embracing
some of the best and most desirable
in the valley, will derive the same
benefit as other lands that are subject
to irrigation. The land will Increase
in value to an amount far in excess of
the government appropriation within
a very few years. The large sum voted
to this object will be a substantial and
timely aid to the district by assisting
to meet the cost of this gigantic under
taking.
LIKES THE COUNTRY.
\V. F. Mahood, a recent arrival from
Oklahoma, has rented the Wm. Keeler
place a short distance south of town.
Mr. Mahood was a victim of hard luck
i.i his eastern home. For five years
drought destroyed the crops. On the
sixth year the accumulated moisture
o' the previous five fell during forty
days, and the prospects of an abundant
harvest ruined. Mr. Mahood’s wheat
was just ready to cut when the flood
erased the crop he had waited so many
years to garner, while destroying much
other property. It was irrigated land
for him after this last experience and
he has come to the Okanogan country
to start anew. He is well pleased with
the country, even after only a short ex
perience, and has but one fault to find,
and (hat is not with conditions here.
He states that he paid the freight in
advance from his home to the coast, he
understanding that this meant any
place in Eastern Washington, but
when the shipment reached him at
Oroville the railroad had added freight
charges from Seattle to this point,
which amounted to almost as much as
hi originally paid. If there is not some
mistake here then the home seeker is
being unfairly skinned. It 1s - a matter
that should he looked into.
“THE BEAL DONNA MAUI A.”
Thai is tlie name of a three act com
edy that is to he staged by the pupils
of the high school at the Urpheum
next Friday evening, May 12, the pro
ceeds to be applied to meeting obliga
tions contracted by the High School
Athletic association. The pupils have
been rehersiug lor some lime in prepa
ration for the play, and it will be put
on the boards in a manner that cannot
fail to entertain and please. On pre
vious occasions the pupils have demon
strated that they are very clever ama
teur performers, and past experience
will only tend to make the forthcoming
performance better than proceeding
ones. "The Real Uuuua Marla" gives
ample scope for bringing out the best
that is in those who are to take pan,
and we can promise the public one of
tlie must enjoyable home productions
ever presented in Oruville. There will
also be a number of musical selections
to add to the enjoyment of the even
ing's entertainment. The scholars have
handed in the following synopsis and
cast of characters:
Cast of Characters.
.lack Chesney, (Student at Oxford) ....
Charley Cole
Charley Wykeham, (student at Oxford)
Aubrey McMahan
Sir Francis Chesney, (Jack’s father)...
Theodore Johnson
1 ail'd Fancourt Lubberly, (student)
Uarland Fthel
Stephen Spetiigue, (Solicitor)
Harlan Fuller
Urassett, (Jack’s man) ....Chas. Mitchell
Donna Maria d’Alvadurez, from lirazii..
* Hernice Desmond
Kitty Verdun, (Spittigue’s ward)
Lorraine iiartell
Amy Spettigue, (Spettigue's niece) ....
Klizabeth Murray
Kla Dalaboy, (an orphan) Goldie Mitchell
Time —the present; commemoration
week, Oxford.
Synopsis.
Jack Chesney and Charley VVykeham,
two college fellows, have invited their best
girls to a luncheon party at Jack’s rooms,
to meet Charley’s aunt. A tew minutes be
fore the girls arrive, the aunt, Dor.na Ma
ria d'Alvadorez, telegraphs to say she
rant come. The boys know that the girls
won't stay without a chaperon, so per
suade another college fellow, Lord Far
court liobberly, who is playing the part oi
an old woman in some theatricals, to im
personate Donna Maria.
Meantime Jack’s father, Sir Francis
Chesney, has called on him and inform
ed him that his financial affairs had gone
wrong and that they are comparatively
poor men. Jack tells ids father of Donna
Maria who is a millionaire and a widow
and suggests a wealthy marriage as a so
lution of their financial troubles. He at
iirst declines, but after considering the
matter decides **to do his best." Stephen
Spettigue, uncle and guardian of the two
girls, who is willing to do anything for
money, also tries to win tile supposed
Donna Maria. Just when matters are pro
givtv.ing nicely and both the old fellows
ue making desperate love to Lord Fan
court Lubberly, who is playing Donna
Maria, tiie real Donna Maria appears on
•he Kve.ie, with her adopted niece. Mis?
Doloboy, who is Bobbeiiy’s sweetheart.
The real Donna Maria takes in the situa
tion at once, introduces herself at Mrs.
Heverly-Srnythe, and decides to slay anu
see the thing out. Just.after Sir Francis
has been refused by liobbeiiy, lie meets
the real Donna Maria and recognizes her
as an old sweetheart, which elicits from
him the exclamation. "Oil! Jack, If
that had been Donna Maria, things iiiigni
have been very different!"
The unraveling of tills complicated sit
uation leads to many tense and extremes
amusing scenes and the best way to find
out how it all ends is to come to tiie
show Friday night, May 12.
FATAL ACCIDENT.
Wednesday evening Theodore, the
5-year-old son of Mr. and Mrs. L. A.
Gladson, living some five miles south
of Orovllle, on the east side of the
Okanogan river, fell from the flume
of the West Okanogan Valley Irriga
tion district and died in a few hours
from the injuries sustained. The acci
dent occurred about 6:30 o’clock. The
little tot, with other children of the
family was playing on the flume, which
runs along the foot of the mountains
near the Gladson home, when he fell
off at a point where the flume is fully
thirty feet above the ground. The head
was badly crushed and neck dislocated.
Dr. Lewis was summoned Immediately,
but nothing could be done to save the
child’s life. Death followed about half
an hour after the arrival of the doctor.
A HELPING HAND.
Monday evening Dr. D. H. Lewis,
president of the Oroville Commercial
Club, accompanied by E. D. V'an Dissel,
Chas. Powell, J. P. Samson and S. B.
Starrett, drove to Molson in the doc
tor's Studebaker touring car to assist
at the organization of the Molson
Partners’ and Merchants’ Welfare
League, an organization similar in its
functions to a commercial club. Some
30 members joined as charter members,
paid up three months dues in advance
and started the league under the most
auspicious conditions. Dr. Lewis de
livered a rousing address, pointing out
the objects of such community organi
zations, showing where and how it
could be made a factor for the better
ment of the country, and expressing
appreciation of the honor conferred
upon himself and the Oroville Commer
cial club by the invitation extended to
him by the people of Molson to aid in
starting this new organization. Brief
and compliamentary addresses were
made by Messrs. Samson, Van Dissel,
Powell and Starrett. The delegation
report having had a delightful time
and a hearty welcome from our Mol
son neighbors.
11.60 PER YEAR
