TODAY'S PRICES
M-xitin bank nut (stat bills) 10 015
Mxhan pwoH 7 VaHonales bills
' arranza t urrem j CI on $100
ll t Kii i (Hand ,i. Harmon qunta-
1 v 7. t oppT. h if b -9 SO
nn- lour Ja"tnrk M-ad
HOME EDITIOiN
M.EM
C
WEUIIER TOKKCAST.
TA Pao and west Trxnt fair, con
tinued warm; New Mexico, fair, w&rm
er; riiona, fair
LATEST NEWS BY ASSOCIATED PRESS.
SINGLE COPT FIVE CENT&
EL PASO. TEXAS. FRIDAY HVENING. MAY 5, 1916
pi I I rHEP AN'TW 11. -RE 60 CENTS A MONTH.
SIXTEEN PAGES TODAY,
. S. MAY ACCEPT GERMANY'S PROPOSAL
rV
Imperial Government Offers
to Sink No Merchant Ship
Without Warning.
SAVING Of LIVES
ALSO PROVIDED
U. S., However, Is Bound to
Demand and Secure Britain's
Observance Of Law.
BLRLIN, Germans-, May 5. In one
of the most condemnatory and
sarcastic diplomatic papers ever
ni by one nation to another, the
' i m?n government today submitted to
l. I nited States an offer of a fur
ther concession In the conduct of sub
ma! ine warfare. It was described as
the utmost concession which the Im
perial government could make, and to
i lias attached a string
Ti p concession Is this
'I German government notifies tbe
vtrnment of the United States that
'i nun naval forces ave received the
llowing order:
"In accordance with the srenernl
principles of vlalt and scann and
the destruction of merchant ves
sels recognised by International
law US-such, vessels, both within
and without tbe 'area declared a
naval war zone, shall not be sank
without wnrnlns; and without sav
ins; human llv-s unless the sbln
attempt to escape or offer resls
tance. Here Is the String.
1 1 i offer Is made contingent upon
"lands by the United States that the
iiMiish government henceforth observe
Hie rules of international law as laid
n n the notes presented by the
g i nment of the United States to the
hmhi government, Dec J8, 1914, and
5 1916; and the German note of to-
a adds.
Mmuld steps taken by the gov-
"uniPTit of the United States not at-
1 in the object it desires, to have the
ins of humanity followed by all bel-
cient nations, the German firovern-
n r i would then be facing a new situ
ation in which it must reserve to Itself
onipl"te liberty of decision."
Xotc Is Sarcastic.
I "day's note, sent in reply to the
Vikii. an threat of discontinuance of
i lations unless Germany's submarine
irfue were suitably modified, charges
Hi' I nited Slates, In terms of stinging
si.hsiii, with having sought to safe
guard the lives and property of certain
" ncombatants without extending the
sirne warmth of feeling to millions of
omen and children in Germany whom
t.ieai Britain seeks to starve.
It also assails the United States on
'lie ground that the Waahincton gov--i
nme-it, while confining Itself to mere
urotests against the Illegal practices of
i.reat Britain protests to which the
Hiitish government has flatly refused
i" ai cfde has gone so far with Ger
ii in as to threaten a breach of rela
I ions
fehlp Ittacked May Hate Been Sussex.
At for the Sussex, the note says the
pi oofs submitted by the United States
admit of a belief that the vessel admit
ted K attacked by a German submarine
ih.i have been the Sussex, and that If
It is finallj determined the ship torpe
do'd nan the Sussex, and not a vessel
tin attack upon which was permissible,
the commander of the submarine will
in ile suitable consequences
The note joints out. in this connec
tion, that notwithstanding the fact that
submarine commanders hate carried
out their Instruction!, in good faith,
trrois are nevertlielt ss unavoidable,
and that in naval warfaie as in war on
land neutrals in the zon- of danger aie
occasionally bound to suffer.
Regrets (ifrninn Proposals Not Accepted
The German government expressed
its ngret that the United States de
(Contlnued on page 3, Col. I.I
MEXICANS BEG THE AMERICAN ARMY
TO STAY TO GIVE THEM PROTECTION
By GEO. H.
WITH Headquarters Punitive Kv
nedition, Imted States Army,
Near Namiquipa. Mexico, May E,
via wireless to Columbus, N M., May .
News of the probable withdrawal of
the American troops has in some mys
terious manner reached the natives,
yen on remote tattle ranches and
farms, and has tauxtd much nervous
ness among thosf of them inclined to
ideleted) who feat if the Americans
lene the countr they will be pun-
Germany's
FOUR
i S. SENTIMENT
uQKJfflDED
Some Editors Approve Ger
man Concession; Others
See Rupture Coming.
A marked division of sentiment re
garding the German reply to the Ame
rican note is apparent in the editorial
comments thus far received. Some edi
tors are disposed to regard the con
cession offered by Germany as satis
factory. Others consider it partly sat
isfactory, while to still others thora
appears no course open to the United
States but to sever diplomatic rela
tions with Germany.
Editorial comments follow:
AV'c Can't Complain.
Baltimore Old.) News: The United
States demanded the establisnment of
a certain status quo. Germany has es
tablished It How long she can or will
maintain It is another question. But
for the time being we are left nothing
to complain of.
Note Fnlrly Sntlufnctnry.
Chattanooga (Tenn.) News: The
German note Is about as satisfactory
as could be expected. The immediate
Issue is whether or not the concessions
made are sufficient We believe they
will cause a better feeling among the
American people.
Break Seems Inevitable.
Pueblo (Colo ) star-Journal: The
German reply Indicates clearly that
Germany's compliance with the de
mands of the United States Is condi
tional upon the United States insisting
upon England following the rules of
International law in accordance with
Gorman Ideas. The note cannot be
other than unsatisfactory to the United
States. A diplomatic break seems In
evitable. Problem Still Unsettled.
Colorado Springs (Colo.) Telegraph:
First ItaBreesldns of the German note
lead to the feeling that months of
dlnteroatte exchanges between Wash
ington and Berlin have failed to bring
about a final solution of the subma
rine issue.
Concessions 'Encouraging.
Las Vegas (N. M.) Optic: The Ame
rican people- had hoped that the Ger
man reply would be of such a nature
as to end the controversy. It failed
to do so and to that extent is unsatis
factory. Such concessions as are made
are encouraging, but a loop-hope is
left for much additional correspon
dence. No Course Hut in Ilrrak.
Albuquerque (X. M ) Evening Herald:
The German answer seems to leave no
course open but to sever diplomatic
relations.
GermnnytH Position Conciliatory.
Roswell N. St.) News: Considering
the fact that Germany Is fighting the
whole world, her position is surprising
ly conciliatory. It should be easy with
this basis to reach a satisfactory set
tlement. Answer of Clenr Conscience.
Cleveland Wechter and Anxelger:
The German answer Is that of the
I strong, whose conscience is clear; who
wishes peace without fearing war. It
puts the final say to Mr. Wilson ac
places before him the chance once
more to be the mediator who brings
the warring nations together The de
cision should be simple. Unfortunately
there Is room for doubt which alterna
tive the president will choose.
Germnny Still World-Defiant.
New Tork Kvening Sun We cor
dially hope our government may find
In this note the solution of our own '
difficulty but as a general indication,
as respects the prospects of peace, it
fills us with gloom Plainly Germans'
Is not In the humor yet to heed the
counsels of wisdom or humanity. She
Is still world-defiant.
There Is No Compliance.
New York Globe The reply is thus
not to be accepted as a settlement of
the matters in dispute between the
United States and Germany There
Is no compliance or substantial com
pliance. No choice would thus seem
open to our government but to rarry
out its declared intention to sever
diplomatic relations.
IntltntlonM For New Parleys.
Boston (Mass.) Traveler. The note
Is an amusing combination of evasions,
denial. Irony and fact. It is an In
vitation to the president to begin a
new series of communication"
"Absolutely Nothing IK.lng."
Trinidad (Colo) Chi oim 1. News
The note of the German (.'"iprnmou
yields nothing, explains nothing pr ra
ises nothing and it Is qite liUelv that
nothing whatever will hi done jh t
it.
Ileply shows Little Progrens.
anta Fe i." M I Mexican The Gi rs
man replj shows little progress toward
(Contlnurd on pair 4, Col 0.1
CLEMENTS.
Ished for moving stolen iiof mJ eti e
supplies to the invaders
Numbers have come into camp to 0-1
if the story of the withdiawal tint
and express their fear that repris 1! ill
be made not onl on mrc hi hut
upon peaceful Mexicans by Carruiu istas
as well as by Villlstas.
These men do not differ between
"istaa," all looking alike to them All ,
rob them and the fear 11 if the mer
icans don t stay now. that the anaichy
of the past five yeais will be nothing
compared with the reign of terror
which will follow the evacuation.
Concession
ISSEHIKEDIu!
DEATH ARE
SPARED
Sentences Of 14 Commuted
To Ten Years In Prison
Because Of Rebellion.
ANOTHER GIVEN
EIGHT YEAR TERM
2 Others, Court Marlialed,
Are Sentenced To Ten
Years Imprisonment.
D"
UBLIN, IRELAND, May 5 Four
more rebel prisoners were sen
tenced to death by court martial
and shot this morning. This was an
nounced officially. The men are Jo
seph I'lunkett. Edward Dal. Michael
O'Hanrahan and William Pearse.
Fifteen other rebels were sentenced
to death, the statement adds, but later
their sentences were commuted to 10
years' penal servitude. Two other reb
els were sentenced to 10 years in
prison.
Executions Innounced.
The following official communica
tion was issued .Thursday afternoon:
"Four prisoners, Joseph Plunkett, Ed
ward Dal)', Michael O'Hanrahan and
William Pearse were sentenced to deatn
and shot this rnornlnsr after the sen
tence had been flonflnned by tbe gen
eral commandlWln chief.
"Fourteen others sentenced to deatn
were eontnnitefi to 0 years penal servi
tude. They warer Thomas '"levan. Thou.
Walsh, FlnlanJ Ltfneh, Michael Mervyn,
Dennis O'CallagHerf, P. B. Sweeney, Pat
rick McNestry, .Peter Clancy, Wm. To
bln. Geo. Irvine, J. J. Walsh, Jas. Mc
Llnn, J. J. Held and John Williams.
"Another prisoner, John MeGarry,
was 'commuted from death to eight
years.
"Two others, Francis Fahe and
Richard Davis, were sentenced to 10
years."
Joseph Plunkett. court martialed and
shot to death by order of the British
government In Dublin yesterday, was
one of the seven original signers of
the proclamation of the Irish provis
ional government. When Patrick D.
Pearse, provisional president, and
Thomas J. Clarke and Thomas Mac
Donagn met a similar fate, it was an
ticipated In cable dispatches that of
the remaining four signers of the
proclamation, Plunkett and James
Connolly were in prison and that S.
MacDlarmad and E. A Caente had not
been accounted foi. MacDlarmad, who
Is a cripple and In feeble health, and
Caente and James Connolly are ap-
parently still alive.
Plunkett was a menibei of the
Catholic branch of the famous Irish
family of that name. I statement this afternoon, but the
Brother of Patrick Pearse. J were repulsed along the whole front
William Pearse was a brother of i attacked except In one or two points
Patrick D. Pearse. He was a sculptor,, j '" 'he advanced trenches,
and was once a tutor in the Irish Boys' I An attempted attack on the trenches
school, of which his brother was head ' at Cappy, south of the Somme. the
master. ' statement adds, completely failed.
Edward Dal and Michael O'Hanra- I East of the Meue and In the Woevre
ban, also anions the rrbels killed yes- I there was an intermittent bombard
terdaj, haie not placed pionunent ment
GEN. ALVARO OBREGON
I'll t . m ,r ji r
Those in the party are. (1) Maj. Alberto G. Montano; (2) toaj. Rafael T. Villagran; (3), Baldomero A. Almada,
Agente General Sua de Guerra; (4) Maji J. M. Carpio; (5) A. G Garcia, Mexican Consul at EI Paso; (6) Gen.
Alvaro Obregon, (7) Capt A. de Saracho; (8) Capt. A. Gaxiola; (9) Gen. F. R. Serrano; (10) Col. Aaron Saenr.
Is Conditioned On Our Making England Observe Law
E IRISH LEADER
OANCHO VILLA'S hiding place has been discovered by American scouts, and
American soldiers now are closing in upon the bandit leader "somewhere in Mexico."
This was the substance of a dispatch sent by Gen. J. J. Pershing to Maj. Gen. Fred
Funston, at El Paso, and received Friday afternoon.
Gen. Pershing, it was stated Friday afternoon, had telegraphed that he had Villa
located and that he expected to close in on the bandit immediately.
The message did not state where Villa had been found, but indicated that Amer
icans had found him and Americans would capture him, if the bandit is caught.
The message was sent from San Antonio, where Gen. Pershing had gone from
Namiquipa to inspect the troops and make a new distribution of the forces.
BRITISH SHIPS
WRECK ZEPPELIN
London, Eng , Maj 5 A zeppelln
dirigible balloon was destroyed Thurs
day by one of the British light cruiser
squadrons off the Schleswlg coast,
aajs an official announcement issued
by the government today.
lh the revolutionary mdlnient
as csJMe, disnatchea Indlcao
jB-. - .a- --5t--- --
IW.
hatlonaltstn Wnnlit nlaitrai Ira1nnct.
IrfMdon, Eng., May E The Irish na
tionalist members of the house -of com
mons will ask parliament to secure the
complete disarmament of Ireland. The
nationalist volunteers are willing to
band in their arms if the measure Is
made general.
Dublin Bishop Sends Warning.
That the situation in Ireland Is still
serious is shown by letters from the
bishop of Dublin published In this
morning's papers in which he writes:
"Martial law should not be too quick
ly withdrawn from Dublin. The danger,
t hlch has been much greater than the
government will admit, is by no means
past Many rebels still are at large in
Dublin and the danger of another up
rising can only be averted by the most
strict measures. This Is not the time
for amnesties or pardons. It is a time
fer swift, stern, punishment."
SIR ROGER CASEMENT'S
TRIAL IS COMING SOON
( London, Eng, May 6 The trial of
ir Jtoger casement will taKe place
in London within a fortnight before
three or five Judges and a Jury. Baron
Reading, the lord chief justice of Eng
land, probably will preside. The at-'
torney general will conduct the prose
cution. GERMANS ATTACK ALONG
VERDUN FRONV; GAIN LITTLE
Paris, France, May 5. West of the
Meuse the Germans Thursday evening
dtrnncrlv nltaAl-ajl trannn nnelllnne
nor(h of nm x 304. sav the official
1 B H H B H B IB
. i lIlllBlfll Si
M HE
s ship siisi
Vessel Torpedoed By Sub
marine; 150 Miles From
Shore; Crew Saved.
New Tork. May 5. Details of tho
sinking of the Italian steamship Joseef
r.n. 13r.t,AVMrtn. AraBvt. Aei.mitAVL
12, wtfen3M toile dff .Jand's End.
Rnglaml, and the rescue 'at the crew
from opten boat by the Norwegian
steamship Pythla were related by offi
cers 'of the Pythla on" the latter's ar
rival here today from London.
Tne Joseef Agost, according to the
Pythla's officers, was first sighted two
miles ahead and at about the same time
a submarine was seen. A torpedo was
fired but missed the Italian ship and
the crew tnen took to the boats. The
submarine then fired 32 shells Into the
steamer before she went down.
The Fythia rescued the men, SS in
all and, putting back, went as near
as she could with safety to the Eng
lish coast, signalled to shore and the
crew was landed in fishing boats.
The captain of the Joseef Agost. the
last man to leave the ship, went In
sane and was taken ashore under
guard to prevent him from committing
suicide.
FLEETS Him
Berlin, Germany, May 5 (By Wire
less to Sayvllle.) A battle in the
Adriatic between Italian and Austrian
warships and aircraft is reported in a
statement received here today from
the Austro-Hungarlan admiralty.
The statement also says Austro
Ilungarian airships hae raided the
Italian city of Ravenna.
AND STAFF
I
I THE IIHIflK
S SHOThnjii q
IHISEHH.IS
mm view
.Niw Tork, May 5 Count Johann von
Bernstorff, the German ambassador, re
ceived the note by telegraph from the
riayvllle wireless station In his suite at
the RItz-Carlton hotel. He refused to
discuss It
It Is known that the- Gerjnan embassy
view Ss that the note is ah for which
wtnrn to what haa been termed "cruiser
warfare" that is the operation of sub
marines as cruisers. Intercepting com
merce with visit and search. The em
bassy view is that inasmuch as no men
tion was made in the note of the ques
tion of armament, it is not a compli
cating feature
London. Eng, May 5 The British
government has decided to release the
38 Germans and Austrlans who were
taken from the American steamship
China.
The seizure occurred off the China
coast The American government
promptly demanded the release of the
1 seized men, contending an American
vessel was. In effect, American soil.
The British government countered with
a declaration that Investigation showed
the seized men were engaged in a plot
against the peace of Great Britain and
were, therefore, belligerents and, as
such, subject to seizure
ZEPPELIN ATTACKS SALONIKI,
WRECKED; ONE OF 30 ESQAPES
London. Eng , May 5. A Zeppelin
raided Salonikl, Greece, during the
early hours of this morning, accord
ing to a Reuter dispatch from that
city. The airship was subjected to a
heavy fire and Is reported to have
been destroyed
A later Reuter dispatch from Salonikl
state? that the destruction of the Zep
pelin has been confirmed. Only one
of the crew of ;u on the aircraft es
caped. 26 AIRPLANES SHOT DOWN
BY GERMANS DURING APRIL
Berlin. Germany, May 5. By wire
less to Saville, L. I. Twenty-six air
planes were shot down by German avi
ators on the western front In April,
according to official figures given out
lodaj The Uei man losses last month
amounted to 2-' airplanes.
Advertisers Please Notice
OS SATt'RDAYS it will be Impos
sible to accept display ads. after 12
noon, classified ads. or readers after
lpm for Saturday's issue. Re
membei early copy secures choice
position.
BRITITIFHEE :
38 SEIZED MEN:
1
The Herald to Print
New Mexico Political Features
Kium Alatnogordo (X. 31.) News.
THE EL lAfc0 HERALD is piepariiig to publish a series or ai titles
dealing with the political situation in New Mexico. Tbe first one will
appear the last of this weik or the first of next week. The Herald
is neither for nor apaiiut any candidate, but will publish the series of
articles for the sole reason that the Campaijrn will be filled ith issues and
developments that will be of the greatest interest to its lea.lers.
liuthrie Smith, of Alamogordo, will take the field to prepare the artulc.
UL !fl L 1 i
Some Cabinet Members "Are
Inclined To Consider Thai
Germany Has Given In '
TONE oflsfOTE
UNSATISFACTORY
No Decision Will Be Made.
In Hasle; Announcement
Expected Next Weeli.
V TVSHEfGTOK. D C. May 5 '
Ty While final decision by the
United States as to whether
Germany's proposal will be accepted
or diplomatic relations broken off will
not be reached until the official text of
Germany's reply to American demands
has reached the state department and
carefully studied ome cabinet mem
bers indicated that the German assur
ances probablv -would be accepted and
that diplomatic relations would not 1 e
'broMee unless the order to submarine
commanderswas violated and American
Uye enseAdered.. . ,,. .
- - Long- Cabinet Jlcetlns: Held.
The cabinet was in session two hours
and a half the longest meeting held
for several months
Members of the cabinet were uncom
municative, all saving that no further
steps would be taken until the official
text was placed before president Wil
on.
Proposal May Meet Demands.
The private iew of officials appar
ently was that the new orders to sub
marine commanders apparently met the
demands of the United States unless an
interpretation were placed on them to
lead to attack on merchant vessels
irmed for defensive purposes. The gen
eral tenor of the German note, how
ex er, was considered unsatisfactory.
As the cabinet members left the white
house several indicated their view that
the United States would have to wait
and see whether the new orders to sub
marine commanders were carried out
Decision Probably Xext Week.
At the state department, after tlin
cabinet meeting, it was stated that no
"hasty" action would be taken on the
German note, and that in view of its
length and the necessity of digesting it
carefully, it was "improbable" that any
decision would be reached before next
week.
Variety of Views In Congress.
Congress received the note quietly
with members expressing a variety of
views. Senators of the foreign relations
committee uniformly refrained from,
comment. Others thought the reply fa
vorable; some were doubtful of the con
ditlpns apparently attached and others
thought it has not advanced things to
ward settlement at all On the surface)
there were no indications of activity
in the group which has opposed tha
president's policy of pressing his de
mands.
May Compare German Orders.
Later secretary Lansing said it was
possible that the United States might
ask Germany for an official copy of
the previous orders to submarine com
manders, which never have been com
municated to the state department, s
that they might be compared with tha
new orders described in the note
Mlstnke :tot Vdnil-sihle.
Mr. Lansing would not discuss tlu
note, except to say that mistakes in
submarine warfare were not admis
sible and to reiterate that the United
States was willing to discuss the con
duct of submarine warfare with Ger
many after the latter nad abandoned
the present practices.
The unofficial copy was laid beforo
(Continued on pace 4, Col. 1.)
I
