THE BARRE' AILY TIMES
VOL. XX NO. 44.
BARRE, VERMONT, FRIDAY, MAY 5, 1910.
PRICE, ONE CENT.
GERMANY WILL ABIDE
BY INTERNATIONAL LAW
OPTICAL MEN l CONVENTION
Has Issued Orders to Her Navy That
Merchant Vessels Shall Not be Sunk
Without Warning and Without Sav
ing of Human Lives Unless the Ships
Attempt to Escape or Offer Fight
GERMANY EXPECTS AMERICA
WILL ALSO FORCE BRITAIN
WILSON APPROVAL
IS ANNOUNCED
TO CARRANZA
Gives Warning That Her Own Orders
to German Navy Will Not be Effect
ive if United States Fails to Make
Great Britain Live Up to Interna
tional Law
He Ratifies "Basis of Co-operation Which
Promises to Prevent Misunderstand
ings" with Mexico.
Washington, D. C, May 5. President
Wilson announced last night that the
tentative agreement between Genera
Scott and General Obregon covering the
future operations of the American and
Mexican military forces in Mexico pro
vides basis of co-operation which
promises to prevent misunderstand
ings and strengthens the cordial re
lations of the two republics."
Although there was no formal an
nouncement of the action, notification
that the Seott-Obregon agreement is ac
ceptable to the American government
was telegraphed to General Scott at EI
t'aso late yesterday by Secretary Hnker
General Scott is authorized to exchange
formal acceptance with General Obre
gn as soon as the latter has obtained
the approval of General Carranza, and
officials here are confident that will be
Friday or Saturday.
Washinjrton. D. C. May' 5. President Wilson and the cabinet
went carefully over the German note as transmitted in news de
spatches from Berlin to-day. The first feeling that it was unsatis
factory was somewhat leavened by the text of the new orders to
submarine commanders, although it was foreseen that the refer
ence to immunity for merchant ships recognized by international
law might admit of some dispute in interpretation. So much de
pends upon the words and their shades of meaning involved in
translating from German to English that no decision can be at
tempted until the official text is in the president's hand3.
. Ambassador Gerard cabled to-day that he had started it on the
cables and that it ought to be in Washington to-day or early to
morrow. The unofficial text, as received by wireless, reviewed at
some length the conditions leading up to the present situation,
touching upon the Sussex and the other matters in dispute, and
concluded as follows: -
"The German government notifies the government of the United
States that the German naval forces have received the following
order: . ', .
"'In accordance with the general principles -of -visit and search
and destruction of merchant Vessels, recognizeof by international
law, such vessels, both within and without the area declared as a J
naval war zone, shall not be sunk without warning and without the
saving of human lives, unless the ship attempts to escape or offer
resistance.'
"But neutrals cannot expect Germany, forced to fight for exist
ence, shall, for the sake of neutral interests, restrict the use of an
effective weapon, if the enemy is permitted to continue to apply at
will methods of warfare violating the rules of international law.
Such a demand would be incompatible with the character of neu
trality, and the German government is convinced that the govern
ment of the United States does not think of making such a demand,
knowing that the government of the United States has repeatedly
declared it is determined to restore the principle of the freedom of
the seas, from whatever quarter it has been violated.
"Accordingly the German government is confident, in conse
quence of the new orders issued to our naval forces, that the gov
ernment of the United States will also now consider all impedi
ments removed, which may have been in the way of mutual co
operation toward the restoration of the freedom of the seas during
the war and does not doubt that the government of the United
States will now demand and insist that the British government
shall forthwith observe the rules of international law.
"Should the steps taken by the United States not attain the
object it desires, to have the laws of humanity followed by all bel
ligerent nations, the German government would then be facing a
new situation, in which it must reserve to itself complete liberty
of decision.
In official circles, it was admitted that the new instructions to
submarine commanders would have to be weighed and considered
very carefully before their acceptability to this government could
be determined.
ROOT DECLARES
HIS CANDIDACY
FOR PRESIDENT
Man in Charge of His Headquarters in
New York City Announces that Root
Approves Statement Issued in De
nial of Reports Root Was
Not to Run.
. New York. May 5. Formal announce
ment that Elihu Root has sanctioned the
campaign being conducted in his behalf
for the Republican presidential nomina
tion was made here yesterday by former
Congressman John W. Dwight, in charge
of tiie Koot headquarters in this city,
The statement vps issued as a denial of
reports mat Mr. Moot was not a canal
date for the nomination.
-The opening of tlie.se headquarteis
meets with the approval of Mr. Root.
said Mr.' Dwight. "These are national
headquarters and not local: Their sole
purpose is to bring about the nomination
or .Mr. Root."
Elected 0. F. Prentiss of Burlington as
President of Association.
Burlington, May 5. The annual con
vention qf the Vermont State Optical so
ciety, held on the roof garden of the Ho
tel Vermont yesterday, was attended by
about fiO members of the society who
came to this city from various parts oi
the tate.
The business session wss opened at 0
oclock in the morning. At 10 oeiocic
the party started on a motor trip which
included a visit to Fort Ethan Allen and
a tour of the surrounding territory. On
their arrival at the hotel the business
meeting was again taken iin and P. C.
Davis of this city gave a talk on "Kye
Strain and Muscle hxercie."
Luncheon at 1:30 o'clock was followed
by the inspection of an optical display
set up bv the Globe Optical Co. of Bos
ton. At 2 o'clock, V VV. Slade of llos
ton gave a talk on "Mechanical Optics."
At 3 o'clock Dr. E. G. Twitchell of this
city talked on signs and symptoms of
dangerous diseases of the eyes. The last
business of the afternoon was the elec
tion of officers, which resulted as follows:
President, O. F. Prentiss of Burlington!
first vice-president, F. L. Scofield of St.
Albans; second vice-president, A. P. Bar
ter of Middlebury; secretary, H. J. Ed
munds of Morris ville j treasurer, C. W.
Randall of Fair Haven.
FLEET WINS
FROM AIRSHIP
MALPRACTICE SUIT
COMES TO AN END
DIVORCE WAS DENIED.
To 15-Year-01d Wife Whose Husband
Was Recently Under Arrest.
Rutland, May 5 Rutland county court
yesterday gave out decisions in a number
of the divorce cases heard during the
term, granting 1!) bills and refusing two.
One of the petitions denied was in the
case of 15-year-old Evelyn Carr Dowries
of Cestleton vs. Robert Downes, 22. The
ease attracted attention because tho
girl's motJier, Mrs. Helen Boutwell of
Castleton, had Dowries arrested a few
montJis ago on the ground that he as
saulted her with a club in ilie middle of j
the night as she s'ept. The grand jury '
failed to indict him. Downes testified
that he and his wife would have no trou
ble were it not for his mother-in-law.
British Light Cruisers Suc
ceeded in Destroying
a Zeppelin
BATTLE TOOK PLACE
OFF SCHLESWIG COAST
Official Announcement
the Success Made in
London
of
Dr. W. E. Lazell Wins in Suit Brought
Against Him by E. H. Cheever, Who
Asked Damages for Treat- .
ment of Broken Leg.
A jury was empaneled in Washington
county court late yesterday afternoon to
near the case of Dennis rocket vs. (.eorge
II. Almon et ux, an action of general as
sumpsit to recover $87. the balance on an
alleged contract between plaintiff and de
tendants. J lie plaintiff claims that lie
had a contract with the defendants to do
plaster work on a new house and that he
was never paid in full. The case was
tried a year ago and the case taken to
supreme court and there remanded for
trial. The defendants allege that a con
tract between them and the plaintiff nev
er existed and admitting that the work
was done, they further claim that it was
not satisfactory. Harry C. Shurtleff rep
resents the plaintiff and George L. Hunt
the defendants.
The case of E. If. Cliccver vs. Dr. W. E.
Lazell, alleged malpractice, was called
yesterday afternoon and upon the pres
entation of the case bv the defendant's
London. Mav 5. A Zeppelin was de
stroyed yesterday by one of the British lawyer, William Wishart, a verdict with
litrht cruiser sauadrons off the' Schles-j coasts was given the defendant. The
wig coast, says an official announcement plaintiff sued for damages, alleging rual-
FOUR MORE
SHOTTO DEATH
Irish Plotters Against Brit
ish Government Were
Executed
15 DEATH SENTENCES
WERE COMMUTED
Jos. Plunkett, Edward Daly,
Michael O'Hanrahan and
William Pearse Shot
to-day.
practice in the care of a broken leg,
The will of Mrs. Margaret Mooney,
late of Montpelier, which was contested
by Henrv Mooney, a son, on the grounds
of incapability and undue influence, was
yesterday sustained by the jury in eoun-
tv court which heard the trial of the case
Fleets of Italy and Austria, Together J"t 11 minutes elapsed between the time
COMBINED BATTLE
IN ADRIATIC SEA
STABBED HIS SCHOOLMATE.
BODY TAKEN TO BURLINGTON
Following Funeral of Dr. John Gibson in
. - i ' . St. Albans.
St. Albans. Mky 5. The funeral of Dr.
JoliffGibsoft, who .died nuslJciilv of heart
failure at hi home on Jiorth Main street
Wednesday morning, was held at the
housr this morning at 10 o'clock, Rev,
S. W. Anthony, pastor of the First Con
gregational church, officiating. Mrs,
Henry F. James sang the hymn, "Tarry
with Me Oh My Saviour." The bearers
were Drs. Alan Davidson. W. B. Arnold,
C. A. Loftus, E. J. Melville and Arthur
Morton of this city, and W. H. Wright
of Georgia. The remaining members of
the St. Albans Clinical society attended
in a body, as did the nurses at the St.
Albans hospital.
Among those people present from out
of town were Rev. Andrew Gibson of
Bennington, X. H., David Gibson. Miss
Beth Gibson and Mrs. George McK.ee of
Uroton. AIlas., Mrs. Wilson of Worcester,
Mas., Mr, and Mrs. Henry H. Hick ok of
Burlington. Miss Nellie W. Kickok, Mrs.
W. H. Button and Mies Alice L. Stone of
New York, Dr. H. J. Parker of Xew Ro-
chelle, N. Y., and Miss Molly Eddy of
YtpOTt, A. 1 .
The body was taken to Burlington on
tram Ao. 2 at 10:53 o'clock for burial.
Rutland Youth's Mind Believed to Have
Been Poisoned by "Movies."
Rutland. Mav C His mind Inflamed bv
tragic scenes in the movies, it is believed,
James Gavin, age 11 years, a sixth grade
pupil in the public schools here, drew his
jackknife and deliberately stabbed Clar
ence Lavonche, a classmate, without pro
vocation. The police have not taken any
action because of the youth of the boys.
It is said that the lads had had no dis
agreement and that the painful wound
over Lavonche's heart and another in his
arm are the result of Gavin's distorted
ideas of play. Lavonche will recover,
with Airships of Both, Met in Com
bat Austrians Raid Ra
venna, Italy.
' Berlin, May 5. A battle in the Adriat
ic sea between Italian and Austrian war
ships and aircraft was reported in the
statement to-day from the Austro-Ilun-garian
admiralty. The statement also
says that Austro-Hungarian airships
have raided the Italian city of Ravenna.
ZEPPELIN LOST
OVER SALONIKI
the jury was given the case and their
return to the court room with the ver
dict sustaining the will. It is possible
that the case may be carried to supreme
court on exceptions.
I nless changes are made in the calen
dar as it now exists there will be but
one more civil case tried by jury at the
present term, that being Daniel B. Ryan
vs. Albert Larbineau. I lie jury is a
follows: W. H. Berdan, Fred Darling,
Guy H. Howe, Fred H. Cram, John P.
Mack, Vern Slavton, M. S. Herbert, A. E.
Foss. A. E. Whit. John Holland, B. E.
Sanders, A. M. Robinson.
The plaintiff was the first witness
called and the cross examination was
Dublin, May 5. Four more rebels were
sentenced to death by courtmartial and
hot this morning, it is ofhcinlly an
nounced. The men were Joseph Plun
kett, Edward Daly, Michael O'Hanrahan
and William Pearse. Fifteen other reb
els were sentenced to death but later
their sentences were commuted to tea
years' penal servitude. The death sen
tence of another was commuted to eight
years' servitude and two were sentenced
to ten years in prison.
WAS GODDARD GRADUATE.
Mrs.
Attacked the Allies and Was Subjected to romPlpte(1 this forenoon.
Such Heavy Fire that It Was De- NATIONAL GUARD
stroyed and 29 Occupants
Were Killed.
AS FIRE-FIGHTERS
Ixnidon, May 5. A Zeppelin raided Plan Being Completed for Service of Offi
aloniki during the early hours this
MONTPELIER
NEW SCALE ACCEPTED.
NOTE CAME BY WIRELESS.
to Be
Re-
Germany Did Not Trust It
layed by British.
Xew York, May 5. The text of the
German note regarding submarine war
fare began arriving by wireless via Say.
ville thia morning but came very slowly.
BRAZIL AROUSED
Over the Alleged Torpedoing of Brazilian
Steamships.
Rio Janeiro, May 5. The Brazilian
government has notified the German le
gation that it has ordered an urgent in
quiry into the sinking of the' Brazilian
-teamahip Rio Braneo in order to be able
to act with certainty for the defense of
Its neutral rights.
Official telegrams received here an
nounce tht the Rio Braneo wa torpe
doed. The newspapers are greatly
roused and unanimously demand ener
getic intervention by the Brazilian government.
GERMAN ATTACK STOPPED.
MARINES LANDED
IN SANTO DOMINGO
United States Troop Will Protect Amer
icas Legation Daring th Attempt
to Overthrow Pres. Jiminez'
Resignation.
Panto rvrni ngo, Dominican Republic,
May f. Marine were landed to-day
fmm the American convert! cruur
Prairiw for the proteion of the Amer
ican legwtion. The situation growing mt
f tn attempt of f--tioril traders to
ere-tbrow tb administration of Presi
dewt Jim:nf i rr.tkaL
French "Curtain of Fire" Again Proved
Effective.
London, Mav 5. The curtain of fire of
the French has-set at naught another
German attack launched against trenches
which the French recently captured at
Le Mort Homme. This engagement,
which is chararteri-ed by Paris as a
small one, has been the only fighting by
infantry on the French and the Belgian
front. The big guns, however, have not
ceased their activity on various sectors.
A violent bombardment is retiorterl in
the regie n of hill '4'H, northwest of Ver
dun.
The Germans re still throwing shell
in great numbers agunst the Ikskuil
bridgehead of the Russians on the east-1
ern front. There also has been a heavy
artillery duel between the German and
Russians in th region south of Krevo.
The tisiml bombardments and isolated
infantry attacks are in prr.gr s on the
Austro Italian front.
The Turks sUrt-ii lo offensive move
ments against the Russians, one in t!.e
region of Iihirt and the other near
Erringan. Both were repulsed, accord
ing to Pttrograd. The tlerman generai
Liman Von Sander i superintending the
concentration of Turkish trons in north;
Smrrana and defen-e measures (or Tur- i
kev a Asiatic count. 1
Another vessel hi been sent t the:
bottom bv a (nTr.in submarine. rmr.l- i
ing to a Vreii-i c f. iI statement. The
attmert ihts te French fishing schoon-
er BcrTia.'ette bas "en simk br an un
der aw t st ISO n )'- from laVl in the
Controversy in Anthracite Mines Has
Been Ended.
Pottsville, Pa., May 5. The anthra
cite coal controversy which threatened to
cause a strike of the 178,000 mine work
ers in the hard coal region came to an
end yesterday through the ratification
by the miners' convention of the agree
ment recently reached between the scale
committee of operators and miners at
Xew York.
The delegates aeeepted.the new scale,
involving increased wages, shorter hours
and virtual recognition of the union, by
a vol of 581 to 20fl. The agreement
takes the place of the one that expired
on March 31. It will be retroactive to
that date, and will continue for four
vears.
Death of Mrs. Ira H. Edson Occurred To
day After Long Illness.
of Ira H. Edson, night watchman at the
State House, occurred at 2:30 oclock thw
morning at her home, 4 Jay street, after
an tllness of nearly a year with cancer of
the bowels. Mrs. Edson was born in
Marshfield Xov. 16, 1857. tha daughter
of Xathaniel and Laura (Spencer) Robin
son, being one of several children. Her
marriage to Mr. Edson took place at
Marshfield in October, 1882, and they
came to Montpelier to reside 10 years
aero. The deceased was a member of
Trinity Methodist church and took an
active part in church work, heing a mem
ber and officer in the ladies aid society.
She wss past chief of the Pythian Sisters
and past chaplain of the Rob Morris
chapter,. Order of the Eastern Star, and
member of the W oman s Relief corps
of Hrooks post, it. A. R.
She leaves besides her husband, two
children, Robert R. Edson and Dora A
Edson, both of this city, and one brother,
Daniel S. Robinson of Minneapolis.
Funeral services will be held Monday
at noon and the remains will be taken
over the Montpelier & Wells River rail
road to Marshfield for burial in the vil
lage cemetery. Rev. O. L. Sherburne will
officiate at the services. The family re
quest that flowers be omitted.
TALK OF THE TOWN
AtKrtic. E-2it of tHe crew
-jcp. tut ?S rt.h-- f.f fhie sT'S
j are teportej t I m'.l aiifU
t re f iriH
' ctMEpanv
James R. Benjamin returned to the
city this morning, after passing several
days with friends in Groton.
&iss Frances M. Robbins of Arlington,
Mass.. arrived in Barre yesterday to take
the position of assistant superintendent
at the Barre City hospital.
County Agent F. H. Abbott of the
Washington (Vnintr Farmers' association
expects to leave this evening for a short
business visit to ilmington. Mr. Ab
bott expects to return to this city some
time Sunday.
Section men are engaged in hying new
trackage and tics ovr an area in the
Montpelier 4 Wells River railroad yards,
extending from I pot square nearly to
the i.rsmte street croesing. That section
of the yard where a sharp curve marks
the appmnch to Granite street 4s being
reinforced in order to reduce the danger
of a derailment aa much as possible.
Among the visitors in the city yester
day and todsv were the following pr.-v
ple: C. C. Frishie of Milton, Mrs. I K
Johnson and mm. For I Jbnon of Ran
dolph. X. C. Bartell and J. F eVs rf
St. Johnshory, H. L. Reevew of Burling
ton. .1. P. Ohmer. Jr . of Dayton. O. T.
S. B-vh of Jurlmjtnn. Chr!e A. Mtir
phy of Plittshure. X. Y.. R. McCready ol
Berlin. X. Provost of Put land,
t harles E. Ha
.. F. DrseoTll of Barton. Mr. and Mr.
P. T. FirB'!e of I-aef ir-e. P. Q . LntVr
Vixa f VerH. an! C K. (crn'!l .!
r..rt Henry, X. Y.
Howard Piape has been elected captain
of the local high school baseball team
and will lead his team into battle for the
first time to-morrow afternoon, when
Burlington high appears on the seminary
campus, rape will play second base and
pitch part of the cames this season. The
seminary team plays'Two games at Wil
liamstown to-morrow, one with the Wil-
liamstown high nine and the other with
Chelsea high school.
Dr. and Mrs. Frank K. Snaulding of
l leveland, O., are making a brief visit in
the city on their way to Tunbridge,
where thev expect to pass the summer.
Dr. Spjulding is a former Montpelier
resident.
Grand Juror A. C. Theriault left last
evening for Boston on a business trip and
will be absent until Monday night. As
Mate's Atty. Fred E. Glcason is in Wind
ham county on legal business, Montpelier
is to-day without a prosecuting officer.
Phillips Gooilenoug'n last evening for
Chicopee Falls. Mass.. where he has se
cured a clerical position with the Fisk
Rubber Co.
Mr. and Mrs. Charles S. Hubbard of
Milwaukee are visiting in the city with
relatives. Mr. Hubbard is a former resi
dent and at one time was a Isrge realty
owner here.
Mr. and Mrs. Msrk D. Fowler of 17
Main street left this morning for Worces
ter. Mass.. where thev will make a nit
with relatives.
fi. E. Megrath. Hurry Mmilfon. Joseph
Sibeon and Ir. C. H. Burr, members of
the Montpelier Gun club, went to-day to
Randolph tocomrte in a tourney in that
town.
Mrs. Joseph A. Depoer of State street
returned last evening from Albany, X. Y-.
where she has been making a several
weeks visit with her daughter. Mrs. Fth
el Field.
cers and Men in Saving Vermont
Forests from Destruction.
St. Albans, May 5. As the result of
I negotiations between Brigadier General
Lee S. Tillotson, adjutant general of the
Vermont Xatiotial Guard, and Austin F.
Hawes of Burlington, state forester, it is
I likely that announcement will soon be
made, to take the form of an order from
German, Delivered Strong Attack Over Z
wiaa-rroai xiur were"- Kepuisea ac
Most Points, Sayt French War
morning, according to a Eeuter dispntu.
The airship was subjected to a heavy
fire and was destroyed, only one of the!
rew of 30 escaping.
FRENCH YIELD
SLIGHTLY AT
HILL NO. 304
Office.
Paris, May 5. West of the Meuse the
Germans yesterday evening strongly at
tacked rrencn positions north of iiill
Xo. 304, says the official statement this
first Vermont regiment, Vermont 'Nation
al Guard, will, tinder certain conditions,
be at the disposal of the state forester
for'the purpose of fighting forest fire.
The state will be divided into nine dis
tricts, in each of which is located one or
more companies of the National Guard.
Montpelier, with Company H. will be the
Frank C. Bancroft, Who Died To
day, Was in 1890 Class.
Mrs. Alice A. Bancroft, wife of Frank
C. Bancroft, passed away at her home ou
the eat hill this morning at 2:30 o'clock,
following an illness with a complication
of diseases.
The deceased was born Alice Adda.
Martin, in Williamstown, Sept. 28, 1870,
being the eldest daughter of rank and
Martha Simonds Martin. She was a
graduate of Goddard seminary in tha
class of 1890. Following her graduation
she taught in the public schools of Barre
and Williamstown. She was married to
Mr. Bancroft March 28, 1803, going di
rectly to the place on east hill where)
they have always lived.
She was one of the charter members
of Cobble Hill grange and was a woman
of unusual literary attainments and in
that community she has always lent a
helping hand in times of trouble and by
loving kindness has endeared herself to
a large circle of friends, who will deeply
mourn her untimely death.
She is survived by her husband, Frank
C. Bancroft; ono eon, Harold; a sister,
Mrs. B. L. Bailey of Orange Cove, Cal.j
also a sister-in-law, Mrs. Mertie Winter
of east hill, to all of whom she has at all
times given the best of herself in loving
devotion.
FINE PARTLY PAID
afternoon, but were repulsed along the headquarters of Washington county, prac-
whole front attacked except at one or
two, point in advanced trenches. An
attempted attack on the trenches at
Cappy, south of Somme, the statement
ndds, completely failed. East of the
Meuse and in the Woevre district there
was. intermittent bombardment. Other
wise the front was comparatively calm.
GREEK TOWN OCCUPIED.
French Take Possession of Fiorina, 18
Miles South of Monastir.
Athens, via Paris, May 5. Much sig
nificance is attached by Greeks gcmraily
to the occupation by French troops of
the Greek, town of Horina. its location
being only 18 miles south of Monastir.
tically half of Lamoille and the lower
part of Caledonia counties. Xorthfield,
with Company F, will be headquarters
of the division including Orange county
and parts of Windsor, Washington and
Addison counties. Burlington, with Com
panies G, C and M, will be headquarters
of Qiittenden county and part of Addi
son county.
CONCESSIONS ON SHIPMENTS.
TALK OF THE TOWN
At the Church of the Good Shepherd
last evening a parish supper was served
at 6 o'clock and afterward the annual
parish meeting and the gathering of the
estrvmen were held. Keports from sev
eral departments of church work were
eard and the following vestrymen were
lei-ted: John Robin. L. R. Rickert,
Waldrnn Shield, W. E. Gilbert. Dr. How-
rd H. Reid, George Mitchell. Charles A.
Brown, H. K. Bush. William Black. E. P.
Carter and NT. J. Roberts. Mrs. William
Black was elected president of the wom
an's guild. Plsns for the ensuing year
were discussed before adjournment. A
meeting of the vestry for the election of
officers will be held on the evening of
Friday, May 12, when delegates and al
ternates to the diocesan convention in
Montpelier will al4o be appointed.
Candidates for the Barre hose team
that is to compete with Goddard sem
inary athletes in a track meet at the
Avers street driving park on the after
noon of May 13 are practicing regularly
and the early indications are that the
downtown team will give the schoolboys
a contest in every event. The following
men have been selected to represent the
fire laddies: A. Colombo. G. E. Ro, J.
W. Moleod. H. A. McDonald. W. Reaux.
Robert Phillip. J. Glass. William Jones.
.1. A. mincan. A. Hlsnchi and F. Monti, reveal that no circus compKnic nave
As the field day will have the effect of (applied for licence to exhibit in Vermont
priminjr the seminary team for the state ; during the coming season, contrary to
interscholastic meet at Burlington a fort-J the item in yesterday's Times that r.o
night later, so will the several events ' few er than eleven tent show s have ap
serve to condition the firemen fr the plied ti the secretary f state for per
state tournament to be held later in the minion to exhibit in the slate. As a
season. J matter of fact, the secretary of state i
Barre Quarry Owners Relieved of Much
Expense on Local Granite Transfer.
As the result of representations made
bv Barre nuarrv owners, the Central Ver
mont Railway company has nyide certain
concessions regarding the earring ot
rough stock for shipment to points in
the Barre granite belt, namely. Montpe
lier, Waterbury, West Berlin and Xorth
field, which will mean much in the ag
gregate to the quarry owners. The con
cessions relate to the setting of stakes
and cleats on the ends and sides of plat
form cars, it having previously been re
quired that the shippers make the same
preparations for these local shipments as
for interstate shipments. Heretofore the
quairy owners have been required to
plice stakes on nil four sides of the car.
about 32 pieces being neceieary, and as
the shipments run into a large number
of cars the total cost is large. I'nder the
new arrangement, the quarry owners are
required merely to furnish four stakes
and two "headers" for each car in these
local shipment of rough stock. Notifica
tion to that effect was received this week.
following the negotiations conducted be
tween Messrs. John E. Maun, M. McGifT
and Gillspie of the railway company and
D. M. Barclay, former presidept of the
Quarry Owners' association, and Guy R.
Varnuin, the present head of the association.
And Mrs. Jose Sandpriano Was Put on
Probation for a Year.
On the payment this morning of
$327.88, which represents the costs and
a portion of the line in the case, further
execution of the sentence imposed on
Mrs. Jose Sancipriano was stayed and
the respondent was placed on probation
for a year. Yesterday, after the woman
had entered a plea of guilty to a charge
of selling liquor illegally, Magistrate H.
W. Scott imposed a tine of $.i(M). with an
alternative sentence in the house of cor
rection at Rutland. Over night relatives
of the woman, conferring with her attor
ney, J. Ward Carver, succeeded in obtain
ing a partial stay of the execution.
To-day, $300 of the fine was paid along
with the costs which accumulated when
a jury was empaneled and Mrs. Ssnci
priano was committed to the custody of
Probation Orheer Charles A. Smith until
May, 1917. Extenuating circumstances
in the case are said to have prompted tho
authorities to extend leniency to the re
sident, who is the mother of five children.
FUNERAL OF C. GRANAI.
NO CIRCUS PERMITS GRANTED.
Held Yesterday Afternoon at 27 Granite
Street.
The. funeral of Corilano Granai, whosa
death at his home. 27 Granite street
Tuesday evening followed a long illness,
was held at the house Thursday after
noon at 2 o'clock. Rev. B. J. Lipsky,
jiastfir of the Hedding Methodist church,
oflicinting. There was a large gathering
of friends and relatives and there wer
numerous floral tributes. The bearer
were the following young men from
Montpelier seminary: Messrs. Holt ay,
("adv. St. Mary, Bisbce, Da vies and
Ramsdell. Interment was made in Hopu
cemetery.
Among the floral tributes were the fol
lowing: Wreath, Robert and Joseph
Volpi; wreath, family; carnations. Mis.
E. A. Carusi and family; roses snd car
nations. Misse-s White; hyacinths. Liny
and Abby Mack; carnations, (.). I.ranni
and family; carnations. D. C. .V. club;
red and white roses, students and faculty
of Montpelier seminary.
TALK OF THE TOWN
We will serve as a special, orange ghor-
And Only Two Requests for Information
Received.
Xorthfield, Mav ft Reports from the
office of the state ta commissioner here bet. fre-.1i strawberry, vanilla, maple wal
nut and pistachio ice creams. K. M.
laai.
Station Ma-ter J. T H. Carr of fl.s)
tentral Vermont railro.id has moved hi
bouebold goods from Keith avenue t-
apartments at .'!. liberty street.
Tiie case of Slate vs. Ben mini ( rti,
who was arrested lal week on a enstt.i
Fire in CnsfMe Georpe I.. Morris , ba nothing to do with the granting of j"f transporting liquor illetrally, lu b-eii
Ford a n torn (jbile caused nvmientiirr eon- ' circus rmit licenses. a!l that bus'ness ; continued indefinitely.- A bearma
slemation anvr.ng attaches at city hall j being oVne through the ofU. e of the state ; '"r May 2, but at the request .f tlv
t eommissiotier ant rton! le t he entry wa- set ahead.
iat evening ni oeiore me tuaae was
smothered, probably no fewer than a
"kLrs. Blanche Perrin ot Plainneld is a
Sliest at the home of Mr. and Mr. Ernest
Batrhel ier of F.lrn street.
Flovd "seemore. a stii'Wt at tie I ni-
vritv of Mi-tMjjsn st Ant Arlvr. Mich., ("'it
m te giet of frier 's in the city for a
few days.
Frien'i ef Mr .eri P. Will, who
ias Serif eonie." ter tv-me at 17
I-eurel street with i!iee-. i.'l be plnased
tt s'e wa iv.t a'.ei .t d.fh-
t ' er-a as rrpoCH ar. I tiat
l.r a'crg titce'y.
Officers in tiie Viral nJTiee slate th..t I '- 1 ""k
half dren folk were rushinir hither anil!iV f.r lv im smaM lent liou tn-'is iisirj a few
von for fire extinguishers and huekets. bad communist ion resar.lina tle mat - i ',!' -'nneetel
The town marahal and a couple of po-Uer. and they applied merely for infor- i Milling . is a
ln-emen had just returned' from a tr p iniation as to t:ic requirement of V r
to Graniteville when the tire was disco, j niont for exhibition purposes and hav.'
ered. The Ford was riding at an'-twrint sin-e then made apoli.-ati-n for li
outside the eirrb in front of tl.e buildir,; ' -rres. Eleven circuses rnav be irtend
and as four fun spirals of smoke .t ' in t ii Vermont trs season. it as
yt trey have n t made Lmn tVir in-terstJ-'n
through the re.-eary hr,ne'i
by f-eftiru perm fr' m t'r.e state tS4
etrn';s-iener'
of
the rear seat m'ne sh.vvte I
"fire'' It was the eent!.le mbn e
t he-tig's t himself of a small hand gie
rade in his to. tit an I tn the gae
tVn tie I ttle heovH were r'-as.l. a
b!ae t'"t nvcVt eas !v have r,ire-! I e
r was et ;--!'-vM. The ie. vf t' e
n-.a'hme was ba 1' kunw-1. btit rone f
I'ie mi, ! nery was timaed.
port V dpi.
by tHe o.stti r.r
l.--sri cf i.rr;l
l-'-ne in Xfw Yi
I
es'VI to l arre
't ,n ! . .
- t i 5 t t h.
of s.( .lol.llsl.lirv . Mfl.l
lavs in t be t it v on b.i -with
the f:j;en!'lii
j;i:esf i i Mr. and Vi
.lames H Cook of s,,,, Mjn .trcet.
The two children of A. . ar(.-ent of
Kren.-b street, w ! hsve teen seri-wtsly-ill
of pneumonia !'or the pst irv week,
are n-skir;: fav.-ih!e j r-'.-rrs- inri
r-e-o ee v.
Intprovemcnt o the l.tt'e brak hoo t
trg owned by b". L. brk at lror'i"
treet are n r re an- with n a ,,-
dav te iritl T'1 ot the s'ru.tviee
to 1. .jMs h-y a P-ost.-n i;-tl a j ai.t-tr-oH
ie sj'-4 ?.'re .l-.'-r r-x? -r
- "v i a -t r t'e ntr r t t
t . : -
