- .... 111. i n H JT T"M
ow that bummer is here lets use every effort possible to destroy the breeding place or Mr. riy
Vol.V.
Columbus, Luna County, New Mexico, May 5, 1916.
No. 46
fiontief
Work on Road to Begin
Tin- work on the roads nurlli
ii- work not later than the 15th
r iliK month.
I Tin road will run ninth from
)ommg twelve mile, thi'iict'
fi .
Tlif route deemed upon o.v
if t:ilJ' onihleer b. exact V the
'nllllli mv I1..I, li'n Ill-till I'V. U'lllMl 11
It U'lll'K Will 111" I II JIIML
thai tins bridge alone will
Tlif route decided upon in the
HUM '.eil.HHIIt' IIIIV OeHVeeil III'.'
tm ii i. mm i n mi-ire in iiii'i'
k ill Mi' ' ' ii i 1111 ion mill
ig Attraction at Crystal
At tlii' Crvstal Theatre on
1 r-l.ll II I'll. IV. AI11V l.llll. IIU
inn nuireiiioiii win (iiii'i- wiiiil
or 11 ore or 1110 re 01 vi lli's iliiii
organization now traveling
mil have been fnvoritea for
Jiany years. I hey eomo so It is
ost Ainall bauds that has been
leurd locally. The Minstrel
)i!rloi'inaiK'i will also be a leuu
For Sab : !l well located
Cox HIT. Columbus. X. M.
Leinmo i Aei'uynu have bought
Kurd truck which they nrt
Just a Word to You
There comes a time tfhenyou, as With eOery other per
son, need something in groceries. It may be a can
of beans or a pound of sugar.
Please Always Bear this in Mind
When that time comes, tie are heretoserOeyouWe
haOe the right goods With Which to serOe you and
guarantee that both quality and price will please you
SAM RAVEL
1
Breen New Intpector
.lack Mreeu has been apistiut
ed Chief Inspector for the State
Cattle Sanitary Hoard, for the
district of Grant and laina Coun
ties, to suttceetl Mr. Schneider,
resigned. Mr. Itreen was the '
deputy Inspector and was
stationed in Columbus, but will
now be statoincd In Dcmiug. He
is a 11 r-t claws oillcer and is well
qualiticd to attend to th
of his new ofliee In It
phuo. He has apHiiuted U'e ! is now almost ltK) graves and tbe
Caldwell, ol Kotleo, N M.as his condition or the place is a (lis
demit.x in this pari of the dls-l grace to the community. The
trict, and Mr. Caldwell will
stationed here.
Increasing Power Plant
be
Tht! new Crystal Theatre is in
easing the elect rie lluht plaitt
again to take care of the luigv
and growing deutaud for lights.
This week a new lorly horse
power engine and a uewand
larger gene 'attir is being install
ed. The call for lights has been
much inore than was anticipated
and tin capacity of the plant was
reached long before all calls
could be tilled. It will now be
but a few days until those who
have orders for light or power
will be supplied
Mutt Raise Our Prices
Owing to the large increase in
cost of paper stock we have been
compelled to raise our prices on
nil job pointing. In soinu in
stances the price of stock has
advanced as much as "00 put
cunt, and for certain classes of
stock the first cost alone will
amount to as mm Ii as was form
erly charged for a complete jo
of letterheads, billheads, etc.
We tried to hold our prices the
same, thinking that possibly the
price of stock would soon be re
duced, but it has mounted high
er and higher. Our rates now
will compare favorably with any
in the Southwest, and in many
instances will be found to be
lower. We regret that the in
crease iocs' be made but it is
compulsory, as much so as is
tiie case witli the gasolene dealer
.1. A Slump, W. .1. Merry,
Hud Parry, Charles ShulT and
Dr. Harbee, of Doming, were
visitors to Columbus Thursday
evenini.'. Stump and Horry are
candidates for county olllc.es
and tin other men in the party
wore meeting the voters and
boosting for their respective
candidates.
I K. Lcintnon, Jr., spent the
greater part of the. week in Kl
I'aso attending to business mat
tors connected with the collet
tion of i-surance on the property
tk-s'royul by tire on March tlth.
Plan Work at Cemetery
A meet inn "f the Vallej ,
Heights Ceiiieter.v Association
will be held at tiie Kirstu,ig"
Saturday evening. May (ith, m I
tluee o'clock, for the purpose
ol planning a dinner, the pro
ceeds of which will bu applii-d to
the improvement of the grounds
at the cemetery. Kver.v resi
dent of the Valley is a member
of the association and everyone
duties I should be interested in the itn -every
proveincnt of I lie (.'rounds. There
I trustees, Messrs. T. A. Hnlsey,
'! K U-miuon. .Ir , W. C. Hoover ;
Mrs. Yarbrough and Mrs. Dean,
hope for a hearty co operation ol
' the citizens in the work, ami it
if urged that a large attendant''
be present at the meeting Sat
urday evening.
Bank Hall Will Be Partitioned
W. C. Hoover has rented the
Hank Hall anil is cutting it up
into rooms, which will be fur
nished to accommodate the
guests of the Hoover hotel.
The hotel is not large enough to
iiccoiiimodate the p:'.trons ant)
the Hank Hall wM be an addition
to the Hoover hotel. Many will
regret the loss of the old dance
hall but no doubt another will
soon be built.
M r. Thompson, of the Allison
White Chautauqua system, is
here to make arrangements to
put on tneir program here
Sam Havel was a business
visitor to the Pass City Mist of
this wi ek.
W. H. Page is building a cot
tngeinthe rice addition which
lie will offer for rent. He K iiIm
repai. ' ig the Siseu house which
will, when completed, make a
desirable homo and will also be
for runt.
For Salt-: -One Stndebakei
wagon: 40 feel il in. galv. pipe
new; one if) in. plow, nearly
new: feet :i' In. woven can
vas belting, never used: several
head of stock. I ra 1 blight.
A steady downpour ol rain,
whicu lasted lor more than
twelve hours Sunday night ant!
Monday morning has cIh i iciI up
the furtuers and cattle men. The
ground is now well supplied
with moisture and tin re will be
plenty of pasture for some time!
$10 RewarJ
Kin- the return of one large
red milch cow, branded with an
arrowhead on luft shoulder. -Ira
Haight. Hi'
POLITICS AND CHAUTAUQUA j
The editor spent Wedncsdny of The crop of wheat which was
tills wt-uk in Dcmlng on business, planted last fall under the Carl
I he u unty hunt town is a pretty Wilcox Irrigation project is look
lively place now- and business ing fine and from present indica
seoms to be nrctty fair, and all ' tlons a good crop will be harvested.
were in their usual good humor, j
which they call the "Doming Spir
it." The Chautauqua had drawn a
large number of visitors and it was
not easy to tell which had the at
tention of the people the most
"the coming primary election or the
Mr show.
The Chautauqua opened Tues
day evening with a large attend
ance and the management was
highly elated at the prospects for a
good session. The Demingites were
well pleased with the first day's
performance, and it is expected to
be a great success. Several of the
Columbus people have gone up to
be p ''sent at at least a part of the
program.
NEW AIRDOME OPENED
,
rtlC new Airdome- With a seat-
lug capacity of 1000 people, was
completed lucstlay and the Gal-
cty Girls put on a program in the age will bo put under cultivation
evening. The outdoor theater isicxt venr IUj wi ()e increased
next door to the postofficc and ar- from time to time.
rangemcnts have been made to put
on a good show everyday. The Gai
ety Girls have a four weeks con-
tract with a change of program the vicinity, but later if the farm-1 the sum of $170. and left no out
three times a week. 1 hey are at-1 jntr .schCmB proves to be as good as standing bills, and in addition to
trading no small amount of at-, expected, arrangements will be this there is a number of bills due
tention. and have had large ( mnje to supply water to all that the city, which- when collected,
crowds every night. P. K. Lem-, wnnt jt, nnd other wells will be , will give the new board a working
mon, Jr., and Joe Gorman are the;suni, rnnitnl nf Kompthinir ni.nr Sf.00.
owners of the airdome.
..... nK
HOLT IJA( h ON THE
DhMING f.RAPHIC
The call of the printshop and the
editor's desk has again proven too '
strong for Willard E. Holt, who I
this week bouuht a half interest
in the Deming Graphic, the paper
with which he was connected
for over two years and which he
did so much to build up and place
in tho front rank of the weeklies
of New Mexico. Mr. Holt and the
Graphic are both to be congratulat-
of Deminir's most enthusiastic
....... In... I I. 1.. .. ..I...... ,. .!... lw
can exercise such great influence I ami are expectetl to be sold within ' "
on the life of Deming and southern 'the next 30 days and the money the funds to the best ad
New Mexico, anil his editorial ef-1 received from the said sale will be l""1??? nml ihcres no P0S8ibi1'
forts will doubtless be directed used in building a new jail for Lu- "f them disappointing us.
to the development of this section I na County. Plans for the jail hip , " " . , " , ., "
..f tho state, a section that Mr. now being prepared by the nrchi- from the bnnk8; whc,re tho county
Holt considers the best part of tects employed by the County Com- money is deposited, interest on the
all of New Mexico. I missioners. muly average balances of 3 per
The Courier extends a warm.
welcome to Mr. Holt on his return
to the fold, and wishes the Graphic,
under the combined management
of him and Clyde Earl Ely, a long
and prosperous life of usefulness
mi the community.
AN OPEN LETTER
TO LUNA VOTERS
( has. L. Hubbard Sets Forth His
Record of Work Done during
His Term of Office
Several weeks ago, I announced
my candidacy for the office of
Collector and Treasurer of Luna
County. It is my purpose to mnke
a personal call on every voter in
the County. However, the time
is at hand for the election, and it
may be thnt I will not bo able to
see every voter and I take this
means of n making a few state
ments in my own interest and trust
they will be given the' careful con
sideration of the loyal Democrat
ic voters before their votes are cast
at the primary of June G, 1916.
It has always been my belief
that a public servant was entitled
to promotion, just as any employe
deserves promotion. For the past
eight years, I have served the peo
ple of the County as one of the
County Commissioners. During
this time, I hnvc made an honest
effort to serve them well. I have
attended every meeting of the
board during this time unless there
wns some hindrance I could not
help. I have always tried to have
the County's business attended to
in an economical manner. I hnvc
investigated as best I could, every
I. Ill .. U..I onlut 41,.,
County, nnd have cut down the
, expenses of the County by these
methods, in no smnll amounts. For
this I have been severely criticised
I by some people who have never in
Ivestigatcd the matter, but I feel
that I hnvc done my duty nnd this
criticism noes not worry me in the
! least.
I I wnnt to call attention to the
1 fact that if it had not been for the
efforts I made, Lunn County would
EXPECTS A GOOD CROI
About forty acres was planted in
wheat, rye and oats, where it re -
ceived proper protection from the trustees.
rabbits, and is making a fine show-, The first work of the new board
ing. Mr. Carl says there is a good , will be to install a pumping plant
stand, and that tho crop looks j at the new well. Warmer weather
much better than he expected. will call for more water and some
I.. .M. Styles, of Louisiana, is , means of raising funds to equip
backing the proposition, and ex- j the well must be provided. Several
pects to give this section a thorough different ways have been suggest
to.it as to agricultural possibilities, . ed by the board, but none has been
The largest well in the Mimbrcs ' fully decided upon. The numbering
Valley was developtd, which has a . of the buildings, and the posting
capacity of 11500 gallons' per min- t,f the names of the streets on each
ute- ami an irrigation ditch of four I porner will also be taken up t
miles in length was built at an I once.
expense of several thousand dol-1 The retiring board, W. C. Hoo
lars, which carries the large vol-1 ver, Mayor C. E. Bourgeois, T. II.
ume of water to the wheat field. I Dabney, Sam Ravel and E. Freder-
It is thought that the supply of wa-I
! er from this one well would irri-
gale a section or more of land, and
'as the supply is unlimited, if the , this board went into office, and ap-
rrnm Minium mwl it i.rM' l.!v..r.mlK tin tiinmii nf rnlilnir (nnHii
as K00,j the present outlook
would in,lln,tp mrh imr nrr...
So far it is a private nroieet and
the owner does not expect to fur
nish wiitcr in thn Inml mi-nci-M in
not have had the present court
house. This may seem that I am
t(lki , t , of dU f
this matter, but 1 can show that
this statement is correct and will
meet any man at any place who may
see lit to taKc issue with me on
It
Through my own efforts, I have
secured for Luna Countv. state
bonds to the value of $lfi.000. bear-
ing 4 per cent intertt and known
I iir "C" ,.., . . onj lk.n..,.k
some litigation which has been giv -
j en to the public, about which 1
I tall at this tinin The
Iw.n.k h,.-,. I I,..,, ,.l'l',..-...l C. .!..
I secured a credit on the amount
of indebtedness of Luna Countv.
to Grant Countv amounting to the 1J1- 1 wn8 ,olu lne "nKers
um of S18.85fi.C6. nnd an addi- thnt this law would not go into ef-
tional sum of $11,325.76. interest on fect hefore January, 1017. I told
said amount from 1912. This has tl,em tnat tne' hlul their remedy
il"" been published In the local pa- thu courts and this was the last
pers and I think the people will'of the opposition to this. Luna
riK'dll it. County is one of the only two coun
...'".S'l!!!':.'! L'!
lawyers and a large number "if citi- 1 bel e e thnt tbcs,e thl nich
iw had repeatedly stated that no- Hnlml" ,0 VKre",t ,,cnJ to. ,thc pen'
thing coui.1 ever be recovered from "f '," Tv""" sho,,1, bef l'0"
Grnut County on the old Railroad i ' T' . '? ht T-iiT1,. yU
Rond Issue, and that I fought lh,,lk 1"'t '. fa,'hfulliV f
out single handed, being oppose. forTd n,'1dutie8 Cornmission
bv the other members of the Com-1 ,,,wo?l,d Prc:'att! ?"r t8UP"
mission. The results speak for 'lort .for the "fce for "V 8-n
tlu-mselves I rll"n,R' assuring you that I will
, ' ...... . give my entire time to the well
J wnVi VYu"11 "e"tn to the keeping of the snid office,
voters that through my personal Respcctfullv
efforts. Luna County is receiving CIIAS. L. HUBBARD.
The Nashville Students
JUBILEE
Will Exhibit At
The New Crystal Theatre
SATURDAY, MAY 13th
The Biggest Little
the
The Band Will
DON'T FORGET the date
NEW TRUSTEES QUALIFY
The Village Trustees are now in
charge of city affairs, having been
been sworn in Monday evening at
the last meeting of the old board.
Dr. T. H. Dabney is the new may
or, and J. L. Walker. J. F. White.
, H. W. Elliott and .1. R. Osborne the
ickson. have given the city very cf-
ficieut work. The Village was in
debt to the amount of $720 when
I to meet their necessary expenses.
They schemed and managed to
meet these old bills, buy a twelve
horse power engine for the water
works, drill a new well, build a
bridge across the arroya to the Rice
ildition, and met their own bills,
iinri tiirnpil nvpr in tho new hoard
i Thp nlrl lmnril him hppn nnripr
lf,re mueh f th,c imc . whi'e th,ev
we,ei" ,,ff'c- t,und?r1 he cir"
cumstances . they labored, it seems
that the criticism has been unjust.
The present bonrd has every ad
vantage over the old, and now have
an income from the occupation tax
license, water rent, etc., which will
amount to something near $500 per
'nc retiring uoara wns no.
cxPr. . l " . C w?d V
P.ub,f improvements under their
llllllllltu "Ul nil: lnciini uwiu,
' wlln me income mai mcy
1 "2? Jn'v
improvements. Wo have a board
.innoMtl t f oer 1 cA men. and v. p
e,u ' nls'.ns amounieu to o-i4.ja
'I,1 -. ms l"w.wn''' passea in
addilumal n
ties In New Mexico which get this
MINSTRELS
Minstrel Show in
World
Parade at N oon
