I
i'
Weston ;
LEADER
Y
I
I
vol. xxxv.
WEKTON, OlIKfiON, FRIDAY, MAY fi, 1910.
NO. 40.
V
WORLD'S DOINGS
OF CURRENT WEEK
Brief Hesume of General News
from All Around the faith.
Liberty Hall, Dublin, Headquarters of the Irish Rebels.
I
UNYOSAl HAPPENINGS IN A NUTSJIQi
i i
... I t
,W!.e.,,
Live News Items of All Nations and
' Pacific Northwest Condensed
for Our Busy Readers.
A V.O00.000 appropriation fur aero
nautlra. waa agreed In by lb bouse
navai cummin
Tba United Htaleer-submarine H
waa launched at lb yard of the Ik
' Torpedo Ikwt company at Drldgrport
l una.
Two. robbers dynamited a null safe
at th First Stale Hunk at ItlrhfMd.
Idahn, at I o'ctm-k Monday morntng
ana escaped with $500 in each.
a new 'plan IHt Ihw' reorganisation
of lha Chicago, Iturk Wejid Pacific
rallruail la being furmulJ! by lha
protective comnilHo for tbelZQ.ooo,
004 I per cent debenture bunds.
Francisco Rodrtgues. sentenced to
ba hanged May 17. 1911, for lha niiir
dor of bis wife, and whoso execution
aa delayed by appeals and Several
reprieves, tu resentences) In tha su
portor court lo be executed May IV.
Proposed InTeaaed rates on sheet
mi ar
i .
MI7WC TTRMQiP INDLFLNDLKd 10SES
Uf General Interest
About Oregon
a
1 J!ii7 f r
' -ijf ,. . ', jA,". . i
- ----- - ,
.n; ... itri
ITtU phirtiMlraph of Uhcrty IUII. Hh the defiance of the UritUh Oovrmmrnl. u Ukrn hh month. l TV. ktl IK.
hcajqiurln. of I he followm Of JIM lrkln, Ihc agltalur, who wat In lha United SUIca not long ago. Froea hot the rebels spread brand be granted
point a to HiKikann, Waab., we-ra found
discriminatory and unju.liriw) by lha
Iniaratata sowmie comniUlwu...Tba
rmlna wcra ordorvd rancolvd.
Proeldont Wllaoo waa too buny
Tuaaday to ata lha proclamation
t)xulng- lo antry JSO.oyO acrva of land
on tho t'oIVllle rcarrtatlon In Wa8-
Inctnn. Ills aorrrtary Informed Itt-p
rtaantallva hill . Ibe proclamation
would b alined Wedneaday.
Leadora of the woman's anffrnKe
tnoToment annt baskela of Mar'UaT
flowers lo President Wilson and all
tha fnetnbers of bla cabinet Tba ba
kola contained tnesaa(ea urctnn sup
port of a constitutional atnopdrocul
ClTlqn tba ballot to women,
Tha Beatlle, Itenlon Routhem rail-J
road. 12 mile alreetcar Una between
Koattla and the coal-mlnlnx suburb of
Kenton, was offered for sale at auc
tion by" the receiver under Instruc
tion of tha superior court There wnre
no bidders and tha salo fu post
ponad. . ,; .. . ......r.;. ,
General Juan I. Jlmlnet, president
of tha Itotnlnlcan republic, waa Im
peached by tha Chamber of Deputies
for an alk's"e vlolattoq or tba 9nstl
tutlon In connection with tba budget
Tha motion for Impeachment was sent
to tba senate atnl tho approval of that
body la cspacMd.
America -reawakened : In national
spirit through leaaona of- tha war In
Kuropa waa lha Ihejna of an address
by President Wilson at tha opening
of tba national-service) sahool- military
through IHibUn. At the rulhl Is s company of ,,Urkln CHUcnry Soldiers." They are probably the men concerned In the cap-
iuiw w in pwimKf, unucr in uirenion m inc ninn rein soeiciy. i nc ruu was laaen ny tne Hnttsn at toe cost of eleven Uvea.
Cattle Losses Prove Small;
Outlook for Livestock Good
Baker After beating rosy reports
on present conditions and ths future
of the livestock Industry In lha north
west, tha third annual convention of
tba Oregon faille and Horse Raisers'
association began movements for the
further betterment of tha business.
Two hundred and fifty members.
one-batf of the total enrollment, bad
registered and mora are expected, so
that attendance records are likely to
be broken. The city la decorated and
everyone Is vlelng to entertain tha
visitors from Oregon, Washington, Ida
bo. Nevada and other stales.
Mayor C. U. 1'almer, Secretary W. E.
Meacbam, of tho Baker commercial
club, and Circuit Judge Anderson
greeted tha members to Baker, and
Walter E. Tierce, of La Grande, responded.
President William Pollmsn. In bla
annual address, said that In spite of
tba severa winter the cattle losses In
tba elate for tha year would be little
mora than normal. He predicted rec
ord prices for grass-fed cattle next
fall. T. W. Torallnson, secretary of
the American Livestock association,
urged brand legislation to atop cattle
thefta In shipments to the east
Tba resolution to recommend to tha
State Sanitary board that no further
If tha brand waa
Washington, D. C. Tba admlnlatrav
tlon'a fight for tha aenata Philippine
bill with Its Clarke amendment au
thorising Independence for tha Islands
within four years was lost In tha bouse
Tuesday.
After voting 111 to US to strike out
the Clarke amendment tha bouse by
a vote of 261 to IT passed as a substi
tute for ths entire measure tha Jones
bill, providing for a greater measure
of self government In tha Pblllpplnee
and carrying a preamble declaring tha
Intention of tha United States to grant
Independence ultimately but without
fixing a data.
Over tha heated protest of adminis
tration leaders, tha house, by a vote
of 203 to 154, Instructed Its conferees
not to agree to any declaration setting
a definite time for granting to tha
Islands their Independence. Speaker
Clark named Representatives Jonas,
of Virginia, and Garrett, of Tennessee,
democrats, and Towner, of Iowa, re
publican, as conferees. v
Now tho bill goes to conference be
tween the two bouses, with the op
ponents of ths Clarke amendment sat
isfied that It Is dead at least for this
session of congress.
nronr
IlLuLL) II
ROUTED BY BO'ilBS
Ml Occupied as fieadqi&rteft
Shelled by Gunboat
foua tsra capo) 0.1 gfjui
4
,r oaawssawaaaasswskaws
Large Reinforcements Have Arrived
in Dublin and Situation Seems
Well in Hand, Is Report
Tbsirsasis of Striken Betm to
' Work, White Otter toads Qui
New York. Mayday, featured here'
by a monster parado of nnlon workers.
also was marked by the beginning of
new labor disorders, aa well aa tha set-i
London. Than. Tjublin rahels have
been driven out of their positions In
St Stephen's Oreen with bombs after
sustaining beavy losses, say tha
Daily News.
- swsasssswa ,
Kingston, Ireland. Four hundred
Irish rebels were made prisoners whan
tha troops captured St Stephen's
Green and drove them oat with bombs.
Belfast The first official lntlm
Uon of tha outbreak In Dublin waa re
ceived here Saturday. Telegraphlo
and telephonic communication be
tween Belfaat and Dublin Is sUU Inter-
RIYOIUIIOJI IN IHIIAKO BROKEN;
707 PRISONERS; LOSS KHUQNS
Infantry and artillery has been sent
from Wexford with a view to engaging
the relwla. .The latest Information
from Knnlscorthy shows that the rebel
leader at thla nlaco does not believe
enrampmo.ni tut young women. ipuibUiw. MbeilUn..Jiadra'jneasaga from
rludlua. th JxtrsldKUt. Aulcud. a, .waxu-
Ing that the honor and Integrity of tha
United States cannot, ba- tampered
with.- .
A resolution by Senator James, au
thorlBjftg.tha-swreJary of the Interior
to receive an assignment of the Itllt
man patent for Improvement In gaso
line manufacture, was adopted by tho
senate. Director Manning, of- the bu
reau of mines, Informed tha senate
tha patent promises to Increase gaso
line product km from IS to 45 per cent
of tha crude oil usod.
rresldrtjib Wilson has not . altered
his purpose to keep American troops
' in tha border region of Mexico until
brigandage has come to an end. Aflor
a brief conference at tho White House
Secretary "llaker prepared further In
structlona for Generals Scott and Kun
ston, souitht by ths officers as a result
of their conference with General Obro
gon, Cs,rrania's war minister.
Immigration la quickening after
months of stagnation caused by the
warA Figures published by the immi
gration bureau show that 33.000 for
eigners reached American shores In
March, against 14,000 In February and
17,004 In January. Italy Is, sending
tha greatest number, with England
second and Scandinavia third. Italian
Immigrants In March numbered about
MOO. .. .
Th0 British government has with
drawn its conscription measure. ' '
Tha Irish rebellion now . affects the
entira island, and martial law has neon
declared tnroughouc
Transcontinental railroads continue
to show enormous tonnage movements,
wlth.resultant gains In earnings.
Kingstown, Ireland. Ths main body
of Ibe Hltin Fein rebels In Dublin sur
rendered Sunday,
r Vewro- was, however, - considerable
fighting throughout ths day In Dublin
and Ibe suburbs. It waa especially se
vere at Italia llrldge outside Dublin;
Tba rebels In tha College of Sur
geons surrendered Sunday morning,
one of the prisoners taken hero was
the Conn teas Mark levies.
Iindon. An official statement re
garding tha rebellion In Ireland aays:
J n repels are surrendering free
ly. The back of the rebellion baa been
broken.
"Messengers bare been sent from
the leaders of tha Dublin rebels to
other1 rebels In Ualway, Clare, Wex
ford. Louth and Dublin counties order
ing them to surrender."
Trieste and the Hovel Irish con
stabulary are doing their utmost to
disseminata this Information.
"As to tha situation in Dublin, reb
els from tba areas of Sackvlllo street
the postofflre and tha Four Courts are
surrendering freely. Mora Incendiary
fires look place In Sackvllla street
Saturday night but the fire brigade
Is now able lo resume work.
. "It la further reported that up to
the present 707 prisoners have been
taken.
"The rebels at Knnlscorthy are re
ported lo be still In possession of this
MEXICO DOES NOT
SEND ULTIMATUM
Conference Makes No Headway
Though Optimism Reigns.
SUPPUtf GO fORWARO FOR TROOPS
Threat of Force Denied by Mexican
General Meeting Marks Time,
Pending Reply of Wilson.
El Paso. Mexican and American
conferees over the disposition of the
American forces In Mexico marked
time Sunday while Generals Hugh L.
Scott and Frederick Funaton awaited
word from Washington aa to the next
step to be taken In the negotiations
with General Obregon.
Tha report of ths American repre-
placa and a mlxe.1 column of cavalry, LenUtvM on 8atlmUv, conference
Dwbltn and has proceeded to that city
In a motor car under escort to verify
the Information. In tha meantime a
truce exists.
went forward by wire. On the answer
of President Wilson and Secretaries
Lansing and Itaker to Its recommen
datlona depends the future status of
the conference.
In tha meantime the following facta
developed:
That to date tho apparent Intention
of the Washington government to keep
General Pershing's columns In Mexico
"A deputation for a similar purpose not ch;nKod
from the rebels at Ashbourne (County
Meath) has also been sent to Dublin.
That General Obregon In Saturday's
conference served no sort of notice on
M Galway the rebels are believed toapmrslg 8cott ,nd n8t0Il thnt could
and
few arrests havs
bo dispersing
been made.
At New Itoss. Gonrv. Wleklow. Da-
genalatown'and Arklow, tha situation
Is" reported normal, - Carlow and uun
lavln are UeUQ'ed ..to be quiet"
astern SaffragisLs Visit Northwest.
be construed as an ultimatum demand
Ing imtnedlute withdrawal.
That the desire of the da facto gov
ernment for withdrawal was again
announced, but that the' only discus
sion along thla Una waa regarding the
advisability of an American retire
ment
That there was considerable discus
sion of the possibility of effective
American and Mexican cooperation in
the eradication of scattered Villa ban
Hundreds of exhibits Illustrative of
tha methods of. tha Federal, govern
ment, In caring for tha lives and prop-
arty or its citizens, are oeing assem
bled In Washington, D. C, for tha
Safety First special, a 12-coach train
that will make an educational tour
through thousands of cities and towns,
Out of 1000 California miners exam
ined by stata and Federal sanitary In
spectors, approximately 40 per cent
were found infected with hook worm.
Swiss territory has again been vio
lated by a German aeroplane, which
flew over the region of Porentruy and
was bombarded by Swiss troops along
the frontier.
James W. Gerard, ths American
ambassador, and Joseph C. Grew, sec
retary of tha American embassy, hava
loft Berlin for German srmy head
quarters for an audience with Emperor
William.
Portland. With gar sashes and ban
ners nf gold, white and purple, rival
Inc tho brightness of tha sunny spring dLt groups.
morning, tha delegation of 23 eastern That there la a strong possibility
suffragists -touring the -country In tho there will be only one more conference
Interests of tha Susan II. Anthony and that depending on the wishes of
amendment for national suffrage, ar- the Washington government
rived Sunday in Portland. After break- .'That while the presont. negotiations
fast tha visitors were taken on a tour are proceeding, shipments of supplies
of the city, then to the general rondos- toi tho American expedition's forces
voua station at the Oregon building aro . going forward uninterruptedly,
and thence out the Columbia river among other supplies leaving the Co-
highway to view the scenery and on-ltumbus base being nine truckloads of
Jor luncheon at Crown -Point .Chalet. I ordnance.
A rousing mass meeting at the library From stray bits of Information It sp
at nisht completed the busy day s pears that Saturday's conference end
visit aftor which the party left for led with the question of withdrawal of
Blacksmiths Go To Coavenlioo is
Autos; Kadiifles Supplant Horses
Tacoma, Wash. After riding to
their convention Iq automobiles 65
master blacksmiths of Washington
spoke of ths lean yeara In their busi
ness and dolefully predicted the hope
lessness of the future with the grow
ing popularity and utility of the auto
mobile and tba disuse of horses.
The old-time blacksmith Is becoming
extinct they said, and In bla place la
coming the blacksmith who aboea
horses occasionally and repairs auto
mobiles frequently. No attacks were
made on Ihe motor car, the majority
of the members merely reporting that
they have gone Into tba automobile
repair business. -
J. W. Woodside, of North Yakima,
waa elected president for the ensuing
Lived Over i00 Years
built on another brand and on the
same part of an animal, waa adopted.
A modified county Inspection law per
mitting cattle to pass from one county
to another by bill of sale or inspection
brand certificate, waa also adopted.
Sugar Officials Visit New Field.
Sutherlln. George Austin, chief ag
riculturist for tha Utah-Idaho Sugar
company, and George A. Smith, pur
chasing agent for ths Utah company,
were visitors In Sutherlln valley thla
week with Alexander Nlbley, secretary
agriculturist for the Oregon-Utah com
pany, and K. H. Austin, of Grants Pass,
chief agriculturist for the Oregon com-Pny.
The officials were driven over the
sugar beet land of this section to In
vestigate the desirability of establish
ing a sugar factory here next year.
Six hundred acres have been contract
ed for the growing of beets near Suth
erlln thla year and the greater part
of the land has been planted. It la
the Intention of the Sutherlln land
owners to contract from 3000 to 4000
acres to beet culture next year.
tlement of severs! strikes In the met- raitad aerlonslv
ropoiitan district The Belfast Jws Letter aays It nn-
Tbo paraders, , carrying banners and ders lands the Joatofflca at Dublin has
placards, passed up Fifth avenue for ben retak by tha military forces,
several miles and returned to Wash- rhe newspaper also publishes ths to,
ington squaro. tha starting point by lowing statement:
way of Madison avenue. The garment- -the police authorities desire tha
workers later held a mass meeting wMe-t pooUc,tT a, ,0ur district of the
preparatory to the calling off of tha following: During tha night (Wad
strika following tha lockout put Into neaday?) a royal naval reserve gun
effect by the manufacturers last week, boat shHed-LlBerty5''the head
The dsy began with a strike of en- quarters of tha Sinn Fain force, and
gineers and firemen on tugboats and it vu mbsequently occupied,
lighters In New York harbor and ad- "Meanwhile larce reinforcements
jacent waterways, but by nightfall
many of the owners bad acceded to
the demands for increased wages, and
the water traffic situation, which waa
threatened with an almost complete
have arrived In Dublin. In other por
tions of lha city tha situation Is well
In hand and repairs to the railway line
are being affected rapidly.' "
News has been received here of tha
ue-up. was mucn improved. Many return to Dublin of Lord BaaU
freight vessels were unable to dock on Blackwood, secretary to the Lord Lieu
account of the scarcity of tugboats, tenant and Lieutenant Murray Qra-
oui mere waa mue ueiaj in we uoca-ih,m WBO csma to Belfast before the
ing oi passenger vesseie. outbreak of the disorder la Dublin.
negotiations oeiween ue engineers
and firemen and their employers con- Dublin, Tneaday, April 15, vis, Lon
tinued and a satisfactory settlement! don, April 28. Dublin now has been
was expected. Itaeld up for 24 hours by a combination
adoui iuuv uoca taoorera went dq
:!p3!
I1 I . v
I i V ' V f
f ' 'v " I
I Kf
ill l
f . rfe
fV ris
H 1 J
Mill Takes On 50 Men.
Klamath Falls. An Increase In the
payroll of the Pelican Bay Lumber
company, of this city, Is to be made.
The big mill Is to be operated 20 hours
a day. This will Increase the daily
cut to 300,000 feet of lumber and ne-
cessitate the employment of 50 more
men.
President H. D. Mortensen. of the
Pelican Bay company, made the an
nouncement If the new municipal
highway, connecting Klamath Falls
with Shippington, the important mill
center on Upper Klamath lake, where
the Pelican mill is located. Is favor
ably voted upon at the regular city
election Monday, and built, employees
of that and other mills in the neigh
borhood can reside In the city and
work at the mills.
strike in Brooklyn for an Increase In
wages, hampering tha movement of
freight by one large docking concern.
It was announced that the strike of
2000 jewelry workers which had been
in progress for three months, had been
settled. The workers received
of members of the Sinn Fein Society '(
and followers of James Larkln. head ;.''
of the Transport Workers' Onion, a4r j
widely known as a strike leader.
There has been the same violence '
In tho city a marked tho. bigrootesur
strike In 1913. which was headed by
Larkln, but supplemented by thorns .. .
eight-hour day. time and a half for 0f an armed force with military pro-
overtime and the abolition of the home
work system.
The terms of the agreement between
the 175,000 coal miners of the an
thracite field and the operators were
announced.
Efforts of a band of anarchists to
hold a meeting In Manhattan gave the
police their only work of the day. The
anarchists were arrested and the meet
ing was dispersed.
Benjamin Schleslnger, president of
the International Ladles' Garment
Workers' Union, announced that a
general strike of the 60.000 cloak
workers will be called Wednesday
morning.
Big Mill Contract Awarded. .
Oregon City. The Hawley. Puln &
Paper company has awarded to the
Grace & Rasmussen company, of Port
land, the contract for the erection of
the generating plant and pulp- mill.
one of the five buildings that consti
tute the 1750,000 extension now being
made.
The pulp mill and generating slant
will be located on the brink of the
falls, near station A. It will he a con
crete structure. The new paper mill
will be electrically driven and the
1128,000 paper machine which will be
Installed will be the only electrically
driven machine of its kind on the Pa
cific coast
German Crisis Again Passed.
tensions and the seizure of strategic
points designed to give tha disturb
ance the aspect of a revolution.
Tha trouble has gone on now for 24
hours and has completely dislocated
the life of Dublin. No shops are open
and no business la being transacted.
Streetcars hare ceased to run and the
gas supply- has .been cut off. Use of
tha telephone between tha city and
tha suburbs has been forbidden by tha
military, and tha running of trains to
and from tha country la irregular.
Yesterday (Monday) at midday tha
Sinn Fein revolutionists were assem- .
bled as tf for one of their usual pa
rades. They were supposed to be going-
for an Easter Monday march.
Some of the rank and file even Im
agined this was their purpose.
About 600 of them, however, took
possession of the general pootoffleo In
SackvUle street, which at tho time
was attended by a usual small holiday
staff of" clerks. There the 600 men
Berlin, via London. Future" Ger
man-American relations probably can
be looked forward to with less appre-
h.nBlM, '
. The Associated Press Is permitted remained all dayand night, and still
to mane mis statement, aitnouen aia-1 "
patches bearing on the nature of the
German reply to the American- note
respecting submarine warfare have
been stopped by the censorship.
The deliberations, at general head
quarters have been concluded and Am
bassador Gerard left for Berlin.
- The German reply is expected with
little delay, but it is considered un
desirable that preliminary indications
of the nature of the note should he
published abroad.
Seattle.
e United States troops 'still upper
most In the minds of the Mexican con
ferees. They are understood to. have
tried to Impress on the American rep
resentatives' their contention that po
litical conditions In Mexico are such
Ladr Advises Surrender.
Kingstown, Ireland. The proclama
tlon Issued by "Provisional President'
Pearce, advising the surrender of U that tbey cannot . bo responsible tor
the rebels, follows: "in oraor to pre- any eveniuauuea mas may resoii iroin
vent the further slaughter of unarmod continued occupation of Mexican soil
, , , . " . ., ,v. by American columns. They aro said
people, and In tho hope of saving tho f t h wd . . ,
lives of our followers, who ara sur- ,ht the noaltlon of the Carranxa ov-
rounded and hopelessly outnumbered, I eminent would bo extremely delicate
the .members, at tha provisional gov-hf the expeditionary movement were
ernment.at hoadquarters bad agreed noj ended
to unconditionally surrender and the There wss notlna- In the atmoanhere
commanders of all the units of the re- 0f either El Paso or Juares to Indicate
publican forces win order tneir ioiiow- tn8t anr crisls has been reached In
era to 'lay down their arms. Pearce."
Idaho Sells 5000 Acres.
Caldwell Approximately 5000 acres
of state land within the Payette-
Boise project were sold at public
auction by Stata Land Commissioner
George Day. Tba bidding was spir
ited, choice parcels being sold ror rrom
$60 to $83 an acre. Commissioner
Day declared that the stata would
realise $150,000 from the sale.
Drafting Grows In Favor,
Glasgow. The Scottish Trades Un
ions' Congress, by a vote of 66 to 46,
declared Its opposition to compulsory
military service. The vote Is consid
ered significant as heretofore the
Scottish Trades Unionists have been
virtually unanimous against compul
sory service.
the negotiations. All of the principals,
Mexican and American, seem optl-
I mtstla
Fruit Outlook Good. : '
Hood River. Prospects for record
yields of all varieties of fruits were
never better In the Hood River valley:
I have examined cherries, peaches
and apricots," Bays" E. H. "Shepard,
editor of "Better Fruit," "and so far
as I could discover not the least dam
age has been caused by the frost or
cold rains. When apricots have not
been Injured' yon may be sure that no
other fruit has been hurt"
The profit from the year's straw
berry crop, now estimated at about 175
carloads, should set. a high water
mark. The 1916 apple crop Is estim
ated at from 1,000.000 to 1J500.000, the
largest in the community's history.
San Francisco Heara Washington, D.C
San Francisco. President Wilson,
through Senator' James D. Phelan at
Washington, sent his greetings and
congratulations to tha people of San
Francisco early Sunday morning by
long-dlstanca telephone.
Nearly 1800 persons attending the
annual performance of tha Press Club,
of San Francisco, commemorating the
city's rehabilitation from the great
fire of 1906, sat with receivers at their
ears at 4 o'clock this morning and
heard - Senator Phelan deliver the
president's message. ,
Abraham Wilcox.
Abraham Wilcox, who has lust died
in Fort Worth, declared that he was
115 years old. His sons and daughters
say he was 107. Until his last Illness
he walked two miles every day, and
never failed to read the daily papers.
He came to- the United States at the
age of thirty, and worked on a farm
near Rochester, N. Y. Later he owned
a farm in Michigan. He spent many
years at San Luis Potosl, but could
not stand the revolutions, and he went
to Fort Worth.
year. Jay R. Chambers was chosen
secretary and August Swenson, of
Port Angeles, was elected third vice-
president All the other-officers were
re-elected. North Yakima was chosen
as the next meeting place, heating out
Belllngham for the honor. Tba visitors
attended a banquet '
Japan Keeps 'Gentleman's Agreement'
San, Francisco. The Japanese con
sul general at' San Francisco, Masa-
nao Hanihara, asked United States
District Judge Dooling to postpone the
case of Matsutaro Nakao In order that
ha might ascertain whether the "gen
tleman's agreement" existing between
Japan and the United States with ref
erence to the immigration of Japanese
laborers had been violated. Nakao,
a 17-year-old boy. was ordered deport
ed on the showing that hia father
was a laundry worker and not a
wealthy merchant., aa represented.
Harper's Weekly la Sold.
New York. Harper's Weekly has
been acquired by the Independent
Corporation, It waa announced here. Grant counties, principally in tho vi
and is to be Incorporated In the Indo- clnity of Whitney. A large portion of
pendent Tba independent is 6g years the umber Is along Trout and China
old and Harper's weekly 59. I creeks.
" Sixteen Sentenced to' Death.
Amsterdam. A great high treason
trial, in which It f persona ;wero sen
tenced to death has Just ended at Sar
ajevo, Bosnia, according to the Frank
furter Zeltung. Among those con
demned to death were Vasij OrgjL a
former deputy, and Mattla Popvlo, a
priest Sixty-eight persons were sen
tenced to prison for from one to 20
yeara. Fifty-five others were acquit
ted. Sarajevo waa the scene ot the ..
assassination of Archduke Francis ,
Ferdinand, heir apparent to the Auo-
tro-JHungariaathrone, and bia wife.-.. --
- - i.v---.";,i... -..ijn.i.v; ''
. - Mora Russians In Franca
Paris. A Havaa dispatch from Mar
seilles reports the, arrival there of
Ninth Span Is Placed.
Vancouver, Wash. The last of the
five completed spans of the interstate
bridge,- to be placed-at this time,-was
set Into position on the piers Tuesday
afternoon shortly after 2 o'clock.- Five
spans were floated Into position out
ju p.era in a.l aeveu uajra. o.a- f Q(nggQt. of .Russian troOPSy V
in! 52? I3, lL? Srnutabe76t FWhlch is not given. ;
4
big structure now In place, complete.
Work ot erecting the four remaining
spans and placing the towers for the
lift draw span will be niBhed to allow
completion of the entire bridge and
Its approaches by October 1.
Phone Rata Increases Ara Asked.
Salem. With the merging of the
Coos & Curry Telephone company and
tho Coqullle Valley Telephone com
pany, under the former name, the con
solidated system has filed application
with the Publio Service commission
for authority to make Increases In
rates for service for all the territory
covered by its lines. The commission
will Investigate the conditions existing
before passing upon the application.
The company operates in Marshfleld,
Coqullle, Myrtle Point and intervening
territory.
The- Russians reached Marseilles
Saturday morning, the dispatch says,
and disembarked lmmedUtely' Iay
were received with tha same military
honors which were accorded tha pre
vious Russian detachments and were
cheered by the people as they 'march
ed to Camp Mirabeau. They will ne
fthln.Rlalnn Im PmlnMiiiL'
New; YorkThe Inter-Ocean Sub- Pj'J
A
marine Engineering company has been
Incorporated with a paid-up capital of
$125,000, it waa learned Monday, to
raise ships from the ocean bed, or sal
vage their contents. The company
will begin work on ships sunk along
tha Atlantic seaboard. If successful
In Its first undertaking It will en-1
; Crow Left Far-at o.
' London. The British Steamship In
dustry; of 4044 tons, has been sunk by
a submarine, which left the crew of
tha vessel In open boats 120 miles
from land. The craw was picked up
tho contents of soma ot tha $300,
000,000 worth of merchantmen sank
by German submarines. , -
Methodists Approve Peace Policy.
Saratoga Springs, N. Y. Assurance
that Methodists of the United States
Big Timber Deal Is Made. were in sympathy with President Wii-
Baker. One of the biggest timber on,i efforts to keep the United States
deala cloaed within recent years In P"0 becoming Involved in the Euro-
eastern Oregon was made known Wed-1 Pan. wr waa voiced nere oy Btsnop
nesday by Frank Gardinier. ot the Cranston, of Washington, D. C,
Baker White Pine Lumber company.
deavor, it waa said, to float or aalvage by the American liner Finland. Tha
when he announced the purchase by
that corporation ot approximately SO.-
000 acres of timber land In Baker and
captain of the Danish steamer Johanna
waa killed when the vessel struck a .
mine In tha North Sea, according to
a dispatch to the Exchange Telegraph
from Copenhagen.' Tha remainder of ,
the crew waa landed at Hamburg.
: Seizure )e Canflrmoot "
Vallejo, Cal. The reported selrure
of tha American power sehoofier Ore-
gon by the British cruiser Rainbow
In the Gulf ot California kt confirmed i
by advices received Saturday at the
Mara Island navy yard from Ouaymaa.
I
Indian Landa for Settlement,
I no voivuie inaian neservauon wiui ine seuiure occurred to apcu M,wruwt ,
mukn Tnlv K 1 01 S A tarritnrr ft laro-A I tYim ommiLm n vntltin-fram Tja'PflLS.
aa the state of Delaware. Fifty miles Lower California, to Ouaymaa. ..The
from the city ot Spokane, Wash. Refer Oregon, a vessel ot 350 tons. Is owned
to Oregon Homeseekers' Information by tho Crawley company of San Fnaav .ia
Bureau ad, on another page. . .. . elsjcov . , v - -
