Black Hills.
GERMANY DESIRES
JO ARGUE
TWO WEEKS HAVE PASSED AND
NO REPLY TO NOTE
NOT TO MEET DEMANDS
VON JAGOW STATES THAT GOVERN
MENT HAS NOT YET REACHED
DECISION REGARDING NOTE
Washington, May 5 —Two weeks
have elapsed since the United States
dispatched to Germany the note de
manding the abandonment of the
present methods of submarine warfare.
The state department is without in
formation that the demand has been
complied with.
As the days go by and no reply comes
from Berlin and Ambassador Gerard
sends no word of the attitude of the
German government, an air of grave
oonoern is beginning to manifest it
self in administration circles.
It is felt that the very length of time
taken in preparing a reply indioating
that the communication will not take
the shape of a simple response or a di
rect one that will clear up the issue
raised. It is feared the reply is likely
to be an argument whioh scarcely will
be regarded as meeting the require
ments of the United States.
Persons olose to the German embassy
continued to feel optimistic.
Berlin, May 5. Uerr von Jagow,
foreign minister, at the re-opening sit
ting of the budget oommittee of the
Reichstag, said the government had
not yet reached a decision in regard to
the situation that had arisen over the
Amerioan note to Germany regarding
the submarine oampaign. As soon as
the imperial chancellor returned to
headquarters he added, he would
the oommittee the information.
NEW BOOKLET
"The Black Hills of South Dakota" is Title of
New Booklet
"The Blaok Hills of South Dakota'
is the title of anew booklet whioh has
ju9t been gotten out by the Northwest
ern Railroad company, and is one of
the most attractive publications con
oerning the country that has been
issued of late, and certainly is filled
with information of a most useful
kind. There are fifty-four pages of
reading matter, mnps and illustrations,
and to even a resident of the Black
Hills is interesting from cover to back.
One of the things whioh strikes a per
son whose interests are in the Hills, is
the fact that it is not entirely devoted
to boosting the road and the resorts to
which the road runs, but gives short
glimpses of the mining industry, the
other activities and' the climate in
summer in the Hills. Its contents have
been most carefully compiled, especial
iy that portion of it relating to the his
tory of this section of the United
States, the mineral and other indust-r
ries and the scenery. Every article is
a little gem of description, while the
illustrations are among the best that
have ever been printed of the Hills.
As a souvenir, it is one of the best, and
the looal office will not have them on
band long, once the faot is known that
they are ready for distribution among
the patrons of tbe road. The edition
printed is a large one, but, it is safe to
say, will soon be exhausted, so great
will be tbe demand.
Dept
ODD FELLOWS NEXT
Plan to Take Them to Lead From Hot Springs
Convention
Within two weeks the Odd Fellows
and Rebekahs of South Dakota will be
in state grand lodge at Hot Springs and
it is the purpose of the delegates from
the eastern part of the state to see
something of the Blaok Hills during
their visit. The two organizations will
send upwards jof 800 delegates, who
will come into the Hills in special
trains from varons points. It is the
purpose of the oommeroial olubs of the
different Blaok Hills cities to offer all
assistance possible in entertaining this
large gathering of visitors, after the
business of their convention has been
disposed of and Lead will be among
the oities that will be able to offer at
tractions to make the Hilis tour inter
esting. The matter will be taken np
by the board of direotors of the Lead
Oommeroial Club at their next meet
ing. ID this oonneotion the question
ft
of the use of privately owned automo
biles will come up for the first time
this year and hence the committee ap
pointed to canvass the aato situation,
will be materially assisted in Ihefr
work, if owners of oars, who are willing
to assist the cause, will report to Sec
retary Thorpe of the Lead Commercial
club.—Lead (Jail.
SOME GOOD MEN TO VOTE FOR
A Few Reasons Why You Should Remember
These Men at the Primaries
We are not going to attempt to dic
tate who any man shall vote for at the
primaries—it would do us no good if
we did dictate—but we would like to
offer a few suggestions and give our
reasons for hoping that you may vote
for the men we are about to name. In
this list however "you will flud only
men who have opposition in their own
party at the primaries as there is
plenty of time before the general eleo
tion to take up tbe other contests,
Among the first of the county can
didates to get into the raoe and who
has been making a good clean cam
paign siDce is J, O. Whaley who is
running for the nomination as oouuty
treasurer. "Jack" as he is known to
everyone in tbe county has lived here
for tbe past twenty-five years. He has
had twelve years clerical experience,
first in the Burlington offices at Edge
mont and later for a time as register
of deeds. Sinoe that time he has con
ducted the only abstract offioe in the
county. During his residence in Hot
Springs he has alwajs been a booster
iu every movement for the betterment
of Hot Springs and will make the
oouuty a first olass treasurer as he will
oonduot the office in an honest and
businesslike manner. The republican
voters will make no mistake in voMng
for him at the primaries.
Another whom we would like to oall
to the attention of the voters is J.
Gillespie, republican candidate for the
offioe of oouuty auditor. Mr. Gillespie
is coming before the voters asking for
a county offioe for the first time and
he has been a resident of the oounty
and a tax payer for over twenty-five
years. He is a man whose word is as
good as the best gold bond and one
who is thoroughly competent and cap
able of oonductiug the affairs of the
auditors' offioe in a businesslike man
ner. An before his name will be ap
preciated.
If there is one offioe where incom
petency shows up more than any other
it is in the offioe of oounty commis
sioner. The fact that Fall River
oounty is head over heals in debt may
not have been caused by inoompetent
commissioners but about ninety-five
per cent of it was from this cause. The
faot that the oounty is in debt is per
haps not so bad if they had anything
to show for the indebtedness but they
haven't. And the only way to remedy
an evil is to get at the root of it and in
the oase of commissioner to be elected,
to secure a man whose business ability
and experience in money matters is
big enough to be able to cope with the
sharks who attempt to graft the county
out of legitimate maney and to reoog
nize these attempts. Asa starter to
ward eliminating a man whose work
has been a farce in the office it would
be well for the voters at the primary
to oast their vote for L. E. Highley on
tbe republican ticket. Larry may not
be an angel but he is a business man
and a square one at that. He is a can
didate from tbe second district com
prising Hot Springs and a vote for him
will be a vote for your own interests
Another old line republican who is
making a good oampaign is Chas. Con
ger.
He
has three other aspirants on
the same ticket for the office of sheriff
but from all indications it looks very
muoh like be would be tbe republican
nominee. Cbas. has been one of the
wheel horses on the republican oounty
for a good many years and deserves
good vote.
NOTICE TO STOCKHOLDERS
Elk Mountain Irrigation & Live
Stook Company. Prinoipal plaoe of
business, Hot Springs, South Dakota.
Notice is hereby given that a meet
ing of the directors held on the 10th
day of April, 1916, an assessment of
87.14 per share was levied upon the
capital stook of the corporation, pay
able immediately to O. A. Stewart, tbe
treasurer of the company, at his of
fice in the Stookmans Bank building
in Hot Springs, South Dakota. Any
Btook upon which this assesment shall
remain unpaid on the 15th day of May
1916, will be delinquent and advertised
for sale at public auction, and unless
payment is made before, will be sold
on the 6th day of June, 1916, to pay tbe
delinquent assessment, together with
costs of advertising and expenses of
sale.
Dated Apr^l 10th, 1916, Hot Springs,
South Dakota.
C. A. Stewart, Secretary.
Looation of offioe in Stookmans
Bank Building, Hot Springs, South Da
kota.
First pub. April 21 last May 12,1916
NEW GUY
ADMINISTRATION
MAYOR AND ALDERMEN TAKE
OATH OF' OFFICE MONDAY
STAR, THE OFFICIAL PAPER
1ST OF APPOINTMENTS MADE BY
MAYOR AND CONFIRMED BY NEW
BOARD OF ALDERMEN
On Monday evening of this week a
new city administration took over the
reins und will conduot the affairs of
Hot Springs for the coming year. The
members of the old oounoil met with
tbe new and after olosing up all un
finished business, Dr. U. W. Htirgens
took the oath of offioe as mayor and
the newly eleoted aldermen, Pat
Boyles, Stuart Hill, T. B. Dings and
O. T. C, Lolliob, also took the oath,
and then proceeded to confirm the ap
pointments of the mayor.
George Leach was appointed to the
offioe of Chief of Police to sucoeed
George MoOraoken James Dalbey was
appointed night marshall to suooeed
Ed Brown Lawrence H. Hedriok was
appointed city attorney to suooeed F#
A. Little O. P. Dalbey was appointed
city auditor to sucoeed himself Frank
Strum was appointed sexton to 6uo
ceed Lyman Allen.
The matter of appointing the city
official paper was next taken up with
the result that out of a possible eight
votes, the Star seoured seven and was
duly appointed the oity offioial paper
for the ensuing year. We would like
to take this opportunity of thanking
the oity dads for their aotion in this
matter.
The entire list of oity officials for the
ensuing year is as follows: Dr. C. W
Hargens, mayor Charles Stewart
treasurer J. N. Jones, police justice
George Leach, ohief of polioe James
Dalbey, night marshall Lawrenoe H.
Hedriok, oity attorney C. P. Dalbey
oity auditor Frank Strum, sexton L.
E. Highley, Sharron Evans, C. I? C.
Lolliob, Otto Strom, Pat Bayles, T. B.
Dings, Stuart Hill and J. H. Gillespie,
aldermen.
Published nt The Only Carlsbad of A-mericn,
Hot Springs, South Dakota, Friday, May 5th, 1916
THAT TBE PEOPLE MAY KNOW
Owing to the faot that there seems to be some misunderstanding a9 to the
aotion of the City Council in instructing tbe Assessor for the ensuing year we
deem it best to make the following statement of the actual facts that took place
and why they were done. Due to the faot that the City, this year, will lcse
$3200 from license's it was neoessary to raise this money by some other method
in order to meet the current expenses of the City. The matter was discussed
by the City Council for more than an hour as to what was the best method, and
finally it was agreed by all members aud a motion was carried to that effect
that the personal property assessment should be raised fifty per oent and the
real estate assessment twenty per oent. The roll was called on this propositi
and every member of the City Council voted YBA. We believe that if more
people would attend the sessions of the City Council that they would under
stand better what the Counoilmen are doing for tbe City, and would realize
that a certain amount of money has to be raised each year in order to pay the
current expenses. O. W. Hargens,
HE CERTAINLY HAS PRESENTED AN ABLE ARGUMENT.
W£U JE6 IT5
TWO WAV, POP TH'
COSR O' TOVM IS
ADVANCED A DIME
AN' JUST XAVE T'MCSTTSE
m* psice CUYTIM'
Tv 5RAdd .'
CUWHaci
SCHOOL PLAY A SUCCESS
Junior Class of High School Presented "Anne
of Old Salem"
The junior class of the Hot Springs
high school presented for the approval
of a large uudienoe at the Morris
Grand, Inst Friday evening the old
oolonial play, "Aune of Old Salem."
The play was under the able direction
of Tho». E. Eastman and reflected
oredit botfta on the director and the
girls and boys in the play. To single
out any. particular one for special
mention would be unfair to the rest of
the oast tw all were equally good. The
oast was composed of the following:
Clarence Beck, George Richer, Kenneth
March. Russell Berrier, Arthur East
man, Florence Bruoe, Amy MoCracken,
Irene Huuime!, Marie Juokett, Dorothy
Heidepre'.m, Mabel Gibson, Katberyn
Ferguson and Vennetta Ileir.zorling.
DR.
WHEELER HOME
Relumed Monday From Several Weeks Trip
East
Dr. R. M. Wheeler returned home
last Monday morning from a several
weeks trip in the east. He spent about
a week at the Lakeside hospital in
Cleveland, Ohio, where he viewed with
muoh internst the wonderful work of
Dr. Crile whom Dr. Wheeler considers
one of r.lie foremost Amerioan sur
geons.
Dr. Cii!e has recently returned from
the war zme iu France where he had
been assisting in a surgical way, and
recited to the visiting dootors the
marked changes iu surgical principles
whioh have been evolved by the Frenoh
in this war.
Dr. Wheeler spent the remainder of
his time iu Chicago in the larore and
well known clinics. Incidentally Dr.
Wheeler boosted for the Blaok Hills
and Hot Springs to his friends and ac
quaintances, many of whom promised
to visit the Hills this summer.
Among those anticipating a trip here
are Dr. Wheeler's own parents, Judge
Jesse Holdon, jurist of the appellate
court.
J)r.
Walter Barnes of Mercy
Hospital and others.
Whooping Cough
One of tbe most successful prepar
ations in use for this disease is Cham
berlain's Cough Remedy. S. W.
McClinton, Blandon Springs, Ala.,
writes, "Our baby had whooping oough
as bad as most any baby could have it.
I gave him Chamberlain's Oough
Remedy and it soon got him well."
Obtainable everywhere.
Patrick Boyles,
T. B. Dings,
S. G. Evans,
S. Hill.
Otto Strom,
J. 11. Gillespie,
L. E. Highley.
1
4
—Williams in Indianapolis Newt.
to
0. E. PHTTERSON
FORCONGRESS
DALLAS MAN THE LOGICAL RE
PUBLICAN CANDIDATE
IS EMINENTLY FITTED
ABILITY AND KNOWLEDGE OF RE
CLAMATION WORK GAINED BY
ACTUAL EXPERIENCE
As the date of the primary election
draws near the voters, and espeoilly
the republicans of this distrlot, natur
ally wish to know something of tbe
candidates who are aspiring to repre
sent this district in Congress for the
next few years. And after a careful
survey of the situation we fool safe in
saying that Hon. E. O. Patterson, of
Dallas, 16 the logical man and tbe man
who is going to secure the nomination
on the republican tioket this spring
and the election this fall.
He it, a man big enough aud broad
enough iu his knowledge and ex
perience to represent this entire dis
trict. This statement is made advised
ly and for the following reasons. Uis
own immediate territory, with refer
ence to his home, is a stock raising and
farming community and by olose asso
ciation he is thoroughly familiar with
their needs. As an attorney the min
ing interests ueed have no fear but
that he will care for any legislation
along that line. Now one of the last
things whioh we of the southern Hille
and also the peeple of the Belle
Fourohe country are vitally interested
in is the irrigation legislation. The
people of the Belle Fourohe country
for the purpose of helping along their
projeot already iu operation and tbe
people here for the help he can secure
in starting our big government pro
jeot—Tbe Angostura.
Iu emphasizing the last named rea
son we believe Mr. Patterson can do
more than any other man whom we
oan send to Washington. For eight
years previous to coming to South Da
kota he was employed as one of the at
torneys in the reolamation servioe and
there is hardly a projeot now in oper
ation whioh did not come under his
personal notice in some manner or
other. If eleoted he will know how to
go about securing government aid in
the shortest possible time and his pre
vious knowledge will be invaluable to
his constituents. He is heart and BOUI
for tbe Angostura project and is tbe
man for tbe southern llills and every
republican oan tie to him.
Ilrlof Itiograpliy
Mr. Patterson is a native of Iowa
having been born in Greenfield, Adair
County this state, on October 5, 1871
He waB eduoated in the Greenfield
publio schools and at the state univer
sity of Iowa, and received legal edu
cation in the National University Law
School at Washington, D. C. Part of
his boyhood was spent on a farm in
Iowa, his father being a farmer and
stockman. At the commencement of the
Spanish-American war Mr. Patterson
enlisted in Company G. 51st Iowa In
fantry volunteers. This regiment ar
rived at San Francisco shortly after
the First Regiment. South Dakota
volunteers, went into camp there, tbe
two camps being seperated by only
street.
After his return to Iowa, Mr. Patter
son went into the office of Governor
Shiw and was employed in organizing
the parole system of Iowa. He re
mained in the office with Governor
Cummins (now Senator) during tbe
early part of his administration or un
til he left Iowa in 1002 and went to
Washington, D. C., where he served in
the office of the secretary of the treas
ury. Later he went from the treasury
department to tbe offi.se of the secre
tary of the interior during the admin
istration of Secretary Garfield and
served as an attorney on the staff of
tbe assistant attorney general for the
interior department in charge of publio
lands and Indian matters until Sep
tember, 1908, when himself and wife
took up their permanent residence at
Dallas.
He is a member of the bar of tbe
Distriot of Columbia, tbe supreme
court of the United States and of the
federal district and circuit coarts of
South Dakota, lie bas served as tbe
city attorney of Dallas and as state
ftenator in the 1913 session of the state
ligislature holding the position of
ohairman of the senate judiciary oom­
Vrtl 511
No. 3
mittee. He has a wide acquaintance
among the attorneys of.Nebraska, Iowa,
bouth Duirota and Minnesota.
1
BIRTH OF A NATION
At the Morris Grand Theatre Tomorrow and
Sunday
David W. Griffith's most extraor
dinary achievement with his new photo
spectacle "The Birth of a Nation,"
coming to the Morris Grand theatre'
Saturday and Sunday, May and 7, is
that of making history live. He haB
touched the high peaks of Amerioan
histony the introduction of slavery,
the War of Seooession, the surrender
at Appomatox, the death of Linooln,
the miseries of reconstruction and the
restoration of the south to its own.
Ihebo things, it would have seemed a
year ago, were beyond tbe motion
picture camera. The master producer
had the faith of an enthusiast. Within
12,000 feet of oelluloid film he has suc
sessfully combined a thrilling, plaus
ible and dignified presentment, of
national upgrowth with a real and
buinau love story based on Thomas
Dixon'* book-romance, "The Clans
man." As it appears to the newspaper
aud magazine critics, Mr. Griffith has
not only surpassed the art of the "in
dooi" theatre, but he has also develop
ed a new art-form far superior to tbe
old-6tyle history or historical novel,
l'tie best oharaoterizition of it so far
is that of a very einiuent publio man
who has called it "History by light
ning."
Mr. Griffith employed 18,000 people
in t.akiug these historical piotures.
The battle scenes were actual dupli
cates of several of Ihe Civil War con
flicts, and so were the facsimilies of
important events. We see Linooln
among bis councellors issuing tbe oall
for voluuteera, Grant and Lee shaking
bauds at Appomatox, the shot that
John Wilkes Booth fired, tbe Freed
man's Bureau, the carpetbaggers' ex
cesses, and the famous riders of theKu
Klux The realism is almost uncanny.
Often the old war shouts are heard in
the audiences from the-lips of veterans
who momentarily forget that it is only
a picture. It is hard to keep one's
feet Trom dancing to tbe well-beloved
tunes of the martial music. Scenes in
the latter half of the piotures are so
skillfully managed that often tbe ap
plause is praotioally continuous for
half to three quarters of an hour.
"Cabria" aud "Quo Vadis" marked
great steps forward in the screen
drama." The Birth of a Nation" points
a btill more wonderful development,
the old dramatio form having been:^
thrown away and the epic or historical^
form substituted. The old reproaob
against the "ten-cent movie" is for*-*
ever removed.
It is a curious sight now in New
Yoik to see dozens of speculators aBk
ing three to four dollars for a seat for
moving pictures, whilst inside at the
box-office the publio gladly pays tbe
regular teale of prices at a fashionable
metropolitan theatre.
The labor involved in this newest
sort of picture-making is enormous.--.
There are 5,000 seperate and individ
ually posed scenes involving a boat
200,000 interesting details. The musi
cal tcore is as complex end elaborate
as that of any Arand opera. Althoughr"
not a word is spoken on the stage, the
mueio&l and mechanical effects employ
a hundred fiesh-and-blood helpers:
nightly. In brief, the magnitude of 4
tbe stupendous film dwarfs the average
stage play into insignificance.
Theatrical producers and observers?:
are wondering what will be the next
evolution of the art. Will the oinema
replace the text-book in the publio
schools? Will the Walter Scotts and
the W. M. Thaokerys of the future do
pictures instead of novels? Will the
historian be replaoed by the camera
man, and tbe still-life painter by one
who, like Griffith, can turn out bund*
reds of Rembrandt, Carot and Turner-,
like scenes in an evenings' entertain-'
ment
Some of these quaries seem daring!
now, even groteeque. Yet, in view of
what is happening around us, it is hard
to 6ay, impossible—to set any limits to::
the future achievements of tbe motion
picture.
A Symbol of Health
Tbe Pythagorians of Ancient Greece
ah.e simple food, practiced temperanoe
and purity. As a badge they used tbe
five pointed star whioh tbey regarded
as a symbol of health. A red five point
ed star appears on eaoh package of
Chamberlain's Tablets, and still fulfils
Its anoient mission as a symbol of
health. If you are troubled with in
digestion, biliousness or constipation,
get a package of these tablets from
your draggest. You will be surprised
at the quiok relief whioh tbey afford..
Obtainable every where. :v v-
I
3
J"
•s.
J#
