DAILY EDITION
VOL. VI., Kn.vlln.
GRANTS PASS, J08FPHIXK COUNTY, OREGON,
FIUDAl-MAV .5,
WHOLE XUMBEB 17S9.
NoJlhr..Tfi?njtlie Worldibe Size pl flwntsJPaes Has a Paper Wi.tb.Kull lifiiUMliit Telegraph Service, f; vf'?;
, .(
ri ov.
CONFER
mm
Nifn
El , Paso, May (.Gnrals obre
ror and S-olt Hi tholr final meeting
today expected to formally ratify the
agreement cpvffrln .operations of
American troops la Mexico, Blight
modifications by President Wilson
ICXt Ol the Keply rrOHl Oer- and "First Chief" Carranza before
y j i q they gava their approval to the pact,
e&dv tcnsidercd by r res- u wm believed, mom not alter ue
iieitV Adfisersacd Situa
tioQ Viewed With Optimisa
plana essentially.
No further chsngts are anticipated.
Scott and Punaton plan to leave El
Paso for the eait and Obregon for
Mexico Qlty.
; V f ' Part of the agreement, It not the
Washington, May (.At a cabinet Mtlr, tt w, be mj0 pnWle
aesslon laatlmr two and one-half houra oon u , ggn()d u w gnnounced
President , Wilson and hla advise 8cott nMM Olregon thle after
considered the unofficial text of the noOD tnat ,ngtructlong hgd arrIveI
German reply to the American aub- from whlngton for the final con
marine demanda today. When the fenmcei yu Mked obregon to set
meeting ended there was no question the ,,me Md plc
but that the altuatton waa viewed.
REPLY TO
IMHIH
Meets Demand of United States Regarding Cosdoct of
ouomance lranare, mi is oarcasuc tin nature, and
looses CdcdMoaTt'at U. S. Negotiate With Allies
for Ii-sing Walfare Upon tie Seas
with optimism. No official announce-
ment may be expected from the White ,
House, it waa aald, until President
Wilson recelvea the official text. Thli i
ATTORN KY FINED $10
VOn tOSTKMIT OF COURT
Orovllle. Cat.. May S. Refustnc to
began arriving today In code. It came tfM interrupting District Attorney
Terr "lowly, and required rive or aix Uonard.wbo waa questioning Oer
nours io ae-oae. lrud, Umaon, 15 yeara old, chief
Prealdent Wllaon a final aeclaion wltneM mlDI!t Rev Madlgon siaugh-
la not expected until late tomorrow. tcr Dftptgt pagtor ,t ChlC0i , bl8
Cabinet membere refuse to dlsciiaa gocond rU, on a chtrw of 4tUck.
the note. It waa indicated, how- rj,.ffnw Counsel Kennedy
ver, that they have atrong bopea vgilned $10 for contempt by Jndge
w m wi.iB.iur7 "ur.ii. Mi ... crugory today.' The defense corn-
declared that no epeclal session or peted Ug cross-examination of the
the cabinet wonld be neceasory. Umson girl during the forenoonaea.
V -pMitmaeter 0ratBurlmn-t Von - ! ' ' .
toJng fishing. President Wilson per-
onally read the Herman note to the
cabinet.
r
TEUTONS ADVANCE
WEST OF AVOCOURT
- Washington. Mar (.--Within 10
minutes after the final and vital par
agraphs of the German reply to the
Amerlran submarine demanda reach
ed Washington. President Wilson and . "
-Is cabinet met to consider the com-! Berlin, May B (via Sayvllle).
munlcatlon. German troops occupied a salient
The cabinet members had been get- west of Avocoiirt after driving out
ting the reply piecemeal from the the French by artillery fire, it waa
wires, The confrence waa with one officially announced today. After
apparent thought Germany has con- destroying the position, the Germans
ceded the ydemands, but there was abandoned It.
omeahovAof uncertainty because, "Southeast of Haucourt aeveral
conditions are maae, trenches were captured by the Ger-
The audden transition of the reply mgn8t ai)(1 tn9 occupants made prls-
Trom a sarcastic, contentious tone,
oners," said the statement. "Repeat-
tellttllng the United Slates' attitude ed BMgcka against German positions
to flat statements that met practical- wort of MBn., wn completely
ly, all concessions called for by the broke down. East of the Meuse there
government., left the cabinet offlcera wgg ntenge artillery fighting."
omf what confused.
The general disposition seemed to
to. consider tbe aubmnrlne issue
practically cloaed for the time be-
Tbe fact .that Germany requires
Lively combats occurred on the
British front between Armentleres
and Arras. Near Glvenchy-en
Gobelle there was much hand gren
ade work around a mine crater, in
if . T . . A j j. .k.r.iLh. .hA 0
irei nnuiiu i v uiroiuu footing ' - "
South of the Sorame patrols were
by a German counter-
terms contrary to International Inw
- Mnantail. anil at first blush of-
ttelaia Inclined to the request that ,P''
America undertake to "bring about ,KC-, ,.
uch change as may be Justifiable.! "A British biplane was captured
( It was pointed out that Germany on the coast near. Holland, but its
has Issued aa order that meets the occupants .escaped? the statement
American contentions. If Germany declared. "A German air squadron
later, 1eeanse the United 8tatea falla heavily... bombarded ...raUroads... at
, to bring Great Britain to meet the Bombletts, Aure Haley and also at
German contentions, resclnda the ord- Sulppex. , . f" ..
r announced today, there will be - 1 - -
new issue for the United 8tatea to ouiler at the White Houae. after read
Tare. Thta has no part In the pre- Ing the German.' note, said he waa
tent situation, it was said. 'pleasantly surprised.'
On the other hand aome officials "We -ought to accept," he said,
believe that Germany has again The opinion of other callers waa
"'passed the buck" to the United that the president should accept the
Htatea. The very nature of the reply offer of Germany as given in good
."put thla country on probation," talth. It was pointed out that the
making successful settlement of the president, asked Germany to , "de-
i present difficulty entirely dependent ( dare and effect" a change In sul)
upon America's attitude to Great marine methods. ,
Britain. So far as the language Is Germany, It was said, had "declar
concernod officials were Inclined tqed the change and It now only re-
nans over certain caustio irrelevant, mainea lor tne unuoa mates to wait
passages "for homo consumption."
Bejoctlon of this country's evi
dence in the SuRRex case, however,
Is a thorn in the sldo 'of optimism.
The government had considered the
caso against Oermnny on this point
romploto.
No definite action will bo taken by
the cabinet, It Is expected until the
offinlnl text arrives by coble, prob
ttbly, tomorrow. . -
SenntoT Hughes, of New Jersoy, a
. ' . : !'"
and soe If It were "eirected."
A high government official, Inti
mately In touch with the situation,
said, after a careful perusal of the
reply:
"Germany appears to have made
great conceptions, I do not see
whether there Is anything at present
that would Justify a break. Ger
many has gone much farther than
earlier reports . . would have Indi
cated." ': " (
Berlin, May ((via Sayvllle).-
Following la tbe text of Germany's
reply to tbe latest demanda of Pre
Bldent Wilson regarding tht use of
submarlnea:
"Tbe underalgned, on behalf of tbe
imperial German government, has
the honor to present to hla excel
lency, tbe Ambassador to the United
States, Mr. Jsnies W. Gerard, the
following reply to the note of April
20, regarding the conduct of Ger
man submarine warfare. ' ' '
"Tbe German government handed
over to the proper naval authorities
for further Investigation the note
concerning the 8ussex, as communt
cated by the government of the
United States. Judging by the re
sults that Investigation hitherto
yielded, the German government is
alive to tbe possibility that the ship
mentioned In the note of April 10
aa torpedoed by a German submarine
la actually identical with the Sussex.
The German government begs to re
serve further communications on the
matter. until, certain points. areV as
certained which are of decisive im
portance for establishing the facts of
the case. Should It turn out that the
commander was wrong in assuming
the vessel to be a man-of-war, the
German government will not fail to
draw the consequences resulting
therefrom.
"In connection with the case of
the Sussex, the government of the
United States made a aeries of state
ments the gist of which is the asser
tion that tbe Incident is to be con
sidered but one instance for (evi
dently ahould read "of") a deliberate
method of Indiscriminate destruction
of vessels of all aorta, nationalities
and destinations by German submar
ine commanders, . The German gov
ernment, however, thinks It of little
avail to enter into the details In the
present stage. of affaire, more parti
cularly aa the. government of the
ITnitod States omitted to substantiate
the assertion by reference to con
crete' facts.' it ".;,;;( i c i j
-I "The German government. will on
ly state that It has . imposed far
reaching restraints' upon the use .of
the submarine weapon solely; In con
sideration of i neutrals' . Interest 1b
spite of . the tact that these restric
tion! necessarily were of advantage
to Germany's enemies. , No such, con
sideration haa ever been shown neu
trals by Great Britain and her allies.
German - submarine forces, have
had, In fact, orders to conduct sub
marine warfare In accordance with
the general principles of visit, search
and destruction of merchant vessels
reoognlxed by international law, the
sole exception being the conduct of
warfare against enemy trade carried
on enemy freight ships encountered
In the war aone surrounding Great
Britain. With regard to these no
assurances ever have been given to
the government of the United States.
No such assurance was contained In
the declaration of February 8, 1916.
"JCrrors actually occurred. They
can In no kind of warfare be avoid
ed altogether and allowances must
be made in the conduct of naval war
fare against an enemy resorting to all
kinds of ruses, whether permissible
or Illicit. But apart from the possi
bility of errors, naval warfare, Just
like land warfare, Implies unavoid
able dsngors for neutral persons and
goods entering the fighting sono.
Even In cases where naval action Is
confined to ordinary forms of cruiser
warfare neutral persons and goods
repeatedly come to grief, The Gor
man government has repeatedly and
explicitly pointed out the dangers
from mines as they have led to the
loss of numerous ships. The German
government , made several . proposals
to the government of tbe United
states In order to reduce to a min
ill
1 0 I1R
Columbus, N. M., May (.Small
bands of VilllsUs from Jbe foothills
of Guerrero are renewing their dep
redations today. Officers regarded
the slaying of P. Hollls a, evidence
of returning serve of the bandits.
The force which Colonel Dodd re
cently routed was declared to have
gathered together agaln. Four hun:
dred negro Infantrymen are en route
to relieve the American troops at
Dublan. ' These moves were south
ward, Military reports said a Car-
ituum tor American travelers and' rnslata. force at the 8onora state
goods the Inherent dangers of naval
i warfare. Unfortunately, the govern
ment of the United States decided
not to . accept the proposals. Had
lt. accepted, the government of
the United States would have
been Instrumental In preventing
the greater , part of the acci
dents that American citizens have
met with meantime."- Tbe German
government still stands by Us offer
to come to an agreement along these
.lines. - v , . v i- :-'
i "As the German government has
repeatedly declared, it can not dis
pense with .the use of submarines as
a weapon in the conduct of warfare
agalnat enemy trade. Tbe German
government, . however,- has now de
cided to make turther Concessions,
adapting the methods or submarine
warfare to the Interests of neutrals.
In. reaching this decision, the Ger
man government Is actuated by con
siderations which are above the level
of the disputed question.1
"The German government attaches
no less Importance to the sacred prin
ciples of humanity than the govern
ment of the United States. It again
fully takes Into account that both
governmens for many years have co
operated in. developing the interna
tional law in conformity with these
principles, the ultimate object of
which has always been to confine
warfare on sea and land to the arm
ed forces of the belligerents and to
safeguard as far as possible non
combatants against the horrors of
war. But although 'the considera
tions are of great weight, they alone
would not under present circum
stances have determined .the attitude
of the German government
. "In answer to the appeal by the
government of the United States on
behalf of the sacred principles of
hpmanlty and international law, the
German , government mupt, repeat
once more, wth all emphasis, that
it, was not the German government,
but the British government, which,
by ignoring all .the accepted rules of
International law, extended this ter
rible' war , to. tbe Uvea and property
o.f nonom'batan.ta, having no regard
whatever for the Interests and rights
of,, .neutral? ,,and,. non-combatants,
whlqh, Jhrongb, this, .method, of war?
fare have, been severely, injured. In
self-defense against; the. IJlegal con
duct, of . prltlBh ..warfare, w, hUe, fight
ing a, bluer struggle for national ex
istence. .Germany had to resort to the
hard, buf. effective, weapon of sub
marine warfare. ., ,,. , .
, "As matters stand, , the , .German
government can not , but reiterate its
regret , that the, sentiments of, hu
manity which the, government of the
United, States extends with much fer
vor, to the unhappy victims of sub
marine warfare , were not extended
with the same warmth of feeling ,to
the many millions, of women and chil
dren who, .according to the. avowed
Intention of the British government,
shall be starved, and who, by their
sufferings, shall force the victorious
army of the central powers Into ig-
nomlnous capitulation. ' The German
government, in agreement with the
German people, falls to understand
this discrimination, all the more as
it has repeatedly and explicitly de
clared Itself ready to ubo the sub
marine weapon, In strict conformity
with the rules of International law as
recognized before the outbreak of the
war If Great Britain likewise would
adopt her. conduct of warfare to these
(Continued on page 2)
border was engaged tin a general
morament The movement was at
tributed to the reaching of the agree
ment at El Paso.
REPLY Pip
VOff BEBNSTORFF
Washington, May (. German Am
bassador, von Bernstorff. accepting
his government's reply to the Ameri
can submarine demands as satisfac
tory to the United States, wUl call at
the state department early next week
to take up the matter of "British vio
lations of International law" men
tioned in the note.
Negotiations on the part of von
Bernstorff will not take the form of
demands. Instead, he will point out
that the United States In its note
assumed the role of an upholder of
international law, no matter where
Violated. He will call attention to
British violations. It. Is the belief
of officials that the ambassador will
not find a receptive attitude at the
state department ; i .
, It his position is to be as indicat
ed ahove, he is expected to be told
differently. ' .
The rnllnga of Secretary Lansing
were pointed to as significant. In
the .case of the Tasaka Maru, an
American, born in China, was aboard.
He was saved, but bis life was placed
In jeopardy, i Lansing explained that
the United States could not take any
action nor protest . unless it ahould
te proved conclusively that the man
was an American cltisen. Cltixensblp
papers were not forthcoming and the
case was not taken , up, There are
numerous similar rulings.
A i MT" ""if 'Mil :'.
ACQUIT ALBANY JEWTOU, ;: ,nip.,
OF GHABGB OF LIBEL
m -Albany... Ore.,, .May c?'.-Ja
Reagan, editor of the Albany, Herald,
la freed: today from, the , charge,- of
criminally libelling, the former, police
force- wot.e this city. Editorially
Reagan asserted the chlef;o.f.jpoUce
and his. assistant were, inefficient, and
that they .permitted, boot -legging. The
jury returnee a , verdict, ofr not guty
after a few minutes' deliberation last
night
General Persii-g Is Said to
Uavekowledsecfrrerczt
Wlereabciits cftfalfcted
tlexicaa Outlaw
iri m ry.'" "f t .i
3 Paso, May S. General Pershing
Is believed to have definitely located
Francisco Villa, according to an an
nouncement1 at -General Funs ton's
Lheadquarters today. The announce
ment, was based on a telegram from
Pershing., Villa's location was sup
pressed here.
-it
El Paso, May (A-Flve Americans
were . murdered! by bandita - wnue
working a mining. , claim oetween
Rosario. and . Mazatlan, . In Sinai oa.
according to American miners, arriv
ing here today One of the slain
men was named Volax. The names
of the others are unknown.
AUSTRUX AVD ITALIAH , v
. WARSHIPS IX CLASH
Vienna, May 5. Austrian torpedo
boate-chiahed with an Italian squad
ron at the month of the Po river
on Wednesday,, while Aastrlaa aero
planes were bombarding Ravenna, it
was announced officially today.
COXmOLATION OF
BRANDEIS URGED
.--. sj .at
GERMAN -HCPPELIK.
BROUGHT DOWN BY ALLIES
Salonlkl, May (. A German Zep-
Wlln raiding tbe allies' camps here
was destroyed today. This. Is the
second Zeppelin reported destroyed
within 24 hours.
FOUR
MQR
IRISH
E
LEADERS EXECUTED
Dublin, May 6. Four more lead
ers of the Irish revolution have been
convicted and shot, It was officially
announced today. They were Joseph
Plunkett, Edward Daly, Michael
O'Hannahan and William Pearse.
Fifteen other Irish rebel leaders
were condemned to death and the
sentences commuted to 10 years Im
prisonment.. One other 'was sen
tenced to eight and two others to 10
years. Further trials are proceed
ing. , ' i ,
..Washington, May. (.--President
Wilson today planned to send a let
ter to congress urging prompt action
on the nomination of Louis D. Bran
deiB as associate Justice of the United
States supreme court ,
v, Portland, May (. Tbe price of
sugar, already at a record mark, will
advance 10 cents more tomorrow,
local dealers announced today. This
Jump will make 100 pounds of sugar
cost $8.40. ....... ...
101. (U 44 i i -JJ . i'
BERLirt BELIEVES
WED
Berlin, May, ,,(P That Germany
yielded,, practically every demand
made, In the United States submarine
demands was conceded in the Ger-
taan reply, made public here. Every
possibility of a break ia apparently
averted. i r ; mu si b.i.v
Germany's complete backdown was
made conditional on the success of
the efforts it urges America to make
to' force Great' Britain to ' observe
fully the principles of International ,
lawV i..l iM tn r-J ',."!:.! aii. !': ' ;
Germany. , fully ; concedes President
Wilson's contention that In the fu
ture no merchant vessels, whether
freight or passenger liners, shall be
sunk without warning, either within
or without the war tone around the
British isles, unless they resist or at
tempt to escape. Wilson has already
conceded the German' right to sink
ships under such conditions.
Submarine commanders have al
ready received new orders, meeting
fully the demands made. ' The gov
ernment expresses implicit confi
dence that these orders will be exe
cuted in good faith. ' ' '
The Lokol Anxelger said today:
, "We hope that the sense of Justice
of the American people will be satis
fied with Germany's friendly advance,
made out of the full knowledge of
the power, success and Justness of
our cause. The German standpoint
can not be criticized because, tt is
based on principles of International
law and ... humanity, which America
has repeatedly maintained."
Hi.
