ta? if
VOL. LXXX1TL.
BRATTLEBORO, FRIDAY, MAY 5, 191G.
NO. 18.
Dining-R
oom Furniture
Entirely new line in Matched Period Suites in
solid mahogany and oak at prices ranging from
$50.00 up for 10 pieces
Buffets
made in all finishes, new designs just out. the very latest.
Prices from $15.00 to $85.00
China Closets
The very newest, just from the factory, with mirror backs
and glass shelves Or you want them;; 20 patterns.
Prices from $13.50 to $60.00
lining Tables
with plank tops, new pedestal designs with the most ap
proved locking device; tables that stand firm.
Prices from $6.00 to $60.00
Dining Chairs
with genuine leather, cane or wood saddle seats, made to
match our tables and buffets; full box seats.
Prices from $2.00 to $11.00
New Dinner Sets
in French, Onondaga and Austrian china, English or do
mestic porcelain, all in stock patterns of the very latest
and most artistic designs; large or small sets, just as
you wish.
EMERSON & SON
Everything for Housekeeping, Brattleboro
You may never make a
mistake in the payment of
bills, but you can control
the mistakes of others by
paying by check. Your en
dorsed and cancelled check
proves your payment. Why not open a check
ing accrtunt with us and avail yourself of the
safety and convenience of this method of pay
ing bills ?
FOR SALE.
FOR SALE or to Ucnt Farm, liox
103, Townshend, Vt. 10-tf
FOR SALE Olio pair of oxen, weight
.1,200, Rood workers. (..'. M. HC'WK, Kast
Dover, Vt. 17-1S
FOR SALE Few tons nice, early cut
baled hay; also need potatoes. W. !.
ADAMS, Windham, Vt. 18-20
FOR SALE The Hotel at Putney, VL
Partially furnished; might exchange.
EDGKTT CO., Urattleboro. 7-tf
FOR SALE Three-seated stage wag
on, canopy top, Tlmken roller bearing
axle. In good condition. F. K. JOHN
SON, Wilmington, Vt. 1S-19
FOR SALE Light weight two-Reated
surrey In excellent condition, nun only
two seasons, .also Concord buggy. Cheap
for cash. FItKD W. COLTON, Hlnsdle,
N. II. 17-18
FOR SALE Hay horse, S years old;
sound and a good driver; also one new
carrlacre. exnress wncon and harness. G
N. UON'D, 3 Locust St. Tel. 231-X. 15-tf
CROSBY'S
SEED OAT
Wo aro tho only liouso In Now
England that absolutely guaran
tee oar Oat3 to grow.
Minimum: 95 per cent germina
tion. Wo iliavo a -enrloRdif -Bffyker'slj
Fertilizers on track, consisting of
160 bags Stock Ocrcal Manure,
without potash.
100 bags Bowkcr's Suporphos
phato with ammonia.
E. CROSBY & CO.
BRATTLEBORO, VT.
Tuesday, May 23, 1916
IS DE LAVAL SERVICE DAY
At Mosher & Tucker's Livery Stable
BRATTLEBORO, VT.
Come Early and Avoid Delays.
Tell Your Neighbors.
For tho benefit of users of De Laval
Cream Separators wo have arranged
A I)R LAVAL SERVICE DAY.
We urgo that every De Laval user
bring his complete separator In for a
careful Inspection, which will be made
freo of charge. Should any part, due to
unusual wear or accident, need to bo re
placed this will be done, the only charge
being for the price of tho new parts used,
no charge for service.
A Do Laval Service expert will bo with
ns to assist with this Impgrtant work.
Hrlng In your Separator complete on the
dato mentioned and get the beneilt of
his odvlco on tho care and operation of
your.8cparator,'vavelltui -the'-freo nor
vico. ii is our wisn ana mat or tno De
Laval company tnat every Do Laval
separator give tno nest satisfaction at
tho least cost, and wc urgo you to take
advantage of this freo and useful service.
T. J. FITZGERALD,
West Swanzey, N. H.
REMEMBER MAY 23d, 1916
FOR SALE Small farm In Vernon
known as tho Itav nlace. For particulars
Inquire of FAYETTE STODDARD, Vcr- voting cattle; also 10(
non, or address S. L. BOND, Wllmlng- ( inquire of IRA JAY
ton, t. jj-zi.fooro. vt
FOR SALE Wo arrived tho 2Sth with
1 head of horses. Two pairs blacks
500 nnd 3CI0: one nalr chestnuts, 350O;
our nnlrs irrnvs. bavs and browns. 3000
to 3200; several teams, 2400 to 2700; n
few big mares, single horses, 1100 to 1750.
Will have next load In 10 days. GUIL
FORD & WOOD HORSE CO., F. J.
Wood, prop., Shclburno talis, .Mass.
fur WORK of all kinds: repairing a
Decialtv: new skins for sale. MRS. E. E.
HOLMES, 59 Green Street, hours 0 to
4, Brattleboro. 40-19
CHIROPODY and Shampoo Parlors-
switches, pompadours, combings made up
to order. MRS. J3. P. BAILEY, 117
Main St. Phono. 19-tt
SELL n
practical household
cessary novelties.
Big manufacturers want am
bitious men and women
everywhere to show fine line
of easy sellers. Live workers
make big money.
The Reynolds Specialty Co.
Montpelier, Vt.
BtlATING.MND ROOFING of all kinds
and chlinnty' cleanlna done to order.
E. D. TORRKY, 59 Frost St., Brattlebo
ro, 'iciepnone o-w.
FUR GARMENTS mado and repaired.
Including coats. Cut prices from April
to August to avoid next season's rush.
Estimates given. Would call. MRS. J
SI. SHAW, West N'orthlleld, Mass. 11-tf
COME IN AND LOOK OVER
THE NEWEST AND
Latest Styles for Spring 1916
in Overcoatings, Suitings
and Trouserings
Suits, from $20 to $40
Trousers, from $ 5 to $12
Have your clothes mndo FOIt YOU
nnd get clothos that WILL FIT und
glvo patisfnctory sorrlco
TLo best theiu In III Tailoring.
WALTER H. HAIGH
Cu, torn Tailor Elliot Street
Moran&Rohde
Embalmots and Funeral Directors
rhone 35MV. S7 Main St., Drattlebara. Vt.
Vt, Llccnfo lOa-Hfl. N. II. License ".'7.
Ma sacliucsott I.tconso ITU"
AUCTION!
A Chance in a Thousand to Buy
Nice Old Mahogany Furniture
nlso nice, clean household furniture of
all kinds.
I will sell at public auction
Friday, May 12, 1916
at 10 o'clock a. m.,
at my residence in I'utuey A'illnge, Vt.,
tho lollowing personal property:
Two old mahogany bureaus, 1 old urn
liogany commode, 1 mahogany wash
stand, very old; 1 solid mahogany
card table with folding top and 'luted
legs, a beauty; 1 mahogany center ta
ble, folding top; 1 mahogany lounge,
very old; 1 mahogany three-leg, center
post, round top table; 1 mahogany three
leg, center post, small oval top stand;
1 mahogany swing tablo with leaves; 1
very largo gilt framed mirror, and
many other antiques.
One black walnut chamber set; oak
chamber set, iron and wood bedsteads,
1 hair mattresses, 4 geese-feather beds,
lot pillows, bed linen of all kinds, com
forters and lied (milts of all kinds
lady's dressing table (nice one), lady's
desk, couch, sofa, mirrors, rocking
chairs of all kinds, other chairs of all
kinds, china cabinet, book shelves,
square piano, dining tablo nnd chairs
to match, and kitchen utensils of all
kinds.
Fire-proof safe, Kddy refrigerator.
wash tuns, clothes wringer, bed nam
mock, not hammock, also
One top buggy, sleigh, pair light work
harness, - heavy truck collars, wheel'
barrows, garden tools, fire extinguisher,
lawn mower, iron bars, sledges, ham
mers, chains, and a hundred other
things too numerous to mention.
If stormy, sale the next fair day.
O. W. ADAMS.
A. W. J. Wllklns, Auctioneer.
SCOTT FARM
E. C. TENNEY, Mgr.
Tlliie nihbon fiuerniry Duller and Pure
bred Dull Calves furiaie.
Viiltori nlwnye welcome. Orders taken
now for pure Maple Srrup,
WANTED.
WANTED Few good cows duo to
freshen in April rum -May. A. G.
IIAKKBS. Vernon. Vt. G3-tf
TWELVE PAGES
BRATTLEBORO.
FRIDAY, HAY 5, 1010.
THE VERMONT PHQJNIX
Published In Brattleboro every Friday.
SUBSCRIPTION PItlCB $1.50 A YEAR,
$1.00 for olglit months; 75 cents for six
months; 50 cents for four months; 40 cents
for three months, All subscriptions aro pay
ablo strictly In advance, and all papers arc
stopped promptly at their expiration unless
tho subscriptions aro renewed.
Rates of display advertising furnished on
application. Small classified advertisements.
10 cents per lino first Insertion, five cents per
line each subsequent Insertion.
(Entered at tho Brattleboro post oOlco as
second class mail matter.)
The nutomobilists have turned ap-
WANTED 1 1 lull est prices paid for llvo proximately .in0.00() into thn Vermont.
poultry; also beef hides mid veal skins. ... . -. , . .,
(I. o. AHliOTT & SON. n-tf state treasury m tho last thrco
"want E DT w7itresHnud chamber ' months. And they aro not paying any
maid, combination work , Country Bill more than they ought to in view of
preferred. NEW FANE INN', Newfune, Vt. I .. . '
tear them to pieces. Tho whole idea
EXPENDITURE BY TOWNS.
Early in March Horace F. Graham,
state nuditor of accounts, Bent out to
each town, city, vlllago nnd incorporat
ed school district for a copy of its
report for tho last fiscnl year. Reports
or statements woro received from all
but two towns and almost all of tho
villnges and incorporated districts.
From these reports tho nuditor 'a ofllcc
has compiled the following statistics,
which may be of interest to the people
of tho state.
This tabula! inn shows that the sev
eral towns, cities and incorporated
school districts expended for -educational
purposes, including the amount
received from tho stntc, during tho
last business year, .$2,103,173.19; that
tho several towns, cities and villages
expended for highways, not state high
ways, $(D(, 15 l.'JS, but In this amount
is included tho distribution from tho
stnto treasury of the automobile main
tenance fund; that tho several towns,
WANTED We want to list your prop
erty, no commission unless n sale is
mado. Wrlto or call S. W. EDdETT &
CO. DO-tf
WANTED Rcllablo man In tho retail
wood nnd furniture business one used
to the enro and driving of horses.
FRANK B. PHELPS, Bellows Falls, Vt.
17
WANTED Flvo girls to work In wood
turning factory. No experience necessary.
AVnges $fi.r0 U $fl Ier week. Board ond
room $3.50. C. E. BRADLEY CORPO
RATION, Putney, Vt. Phone 51. IS
of road building is undergoing a
ehango becauso of tho strain put up
on tho roads by the heavy cars, cspec-
ially when chains aro used on tho
tires.
TO RENT.
SPECIAL NOTICES.
Tho Bellows Falls Times states F. II,
Babbitt, would be pleased to be a dele
gate to tho Republican national con
vention, if such is the desire of the
convention. Tho ex-representative
TO LET Pasturage for 15 head of, from Rockingham and ex-senator from
Windham county can depend upon the
hearty and voluntary support of his
home county. Mr. Babbitt is n strong
supporter of Charles 13. Hughes foi
tho presidential nomination, and is
thus in accord with the views, as we
believe, of a great majority of Vor-montcrs.
00-ncro farm to rent
DUTTON, Wards-14-tf
WANTED
Strictly fresh eggs, butter nnd
poultry and wool. Cash paid.
GREENFIELD LIVE POULTRY CO.
119 Wells St.
WANTED
Men to work on tobacco plantation
situated near Springfield, good accommo
dations with high wages. Reply. HINS
DALE, SMITH & CO.. Springfield, Mass.
EXECUTOR'S SALE
Public Auction
In the Village of Bcrnardston, Mass.
Wednesday, May 10, 1916
At 9.30 A. M.
I will sell at public nuctlon the rea.
estate and personal property of the late
Edward E. Benjamin, commencing nt
!.:.(( o clock n. in.,
PERSONAL PROPERTY: 111 head of
AliPidcon Angus cattle. 1 sow and pigs
8 horses, consisting of three pair of
good general purpose horses, 1 young
gray mare, partly broken, and one bay
colt.
MILL MACHINERY: consisting lis fol
lows: ('huso No, 2 sawmill, rope feed, In
good conuiuon, Willi mower, licit, saws
Help WantecL
Twenty-nvo hddltlpTOliiicnvantcd at
once In our machlno shop. Inspectors,
Latho Hands, Toolmakers and young
men mechanically Incllnod. Steady em
ployment assured.
Vermont Farm Machine Company
Bellows Falls, Vt.
j. ne nomination lor governor is
coming to Horaco F. Graham without
effort on his part, as his qualifications
for the office through natural ability
and years of training aro well recog
nized. There is a great difference be
tweeu being unanimously supported be
foro nomination and n winning after n
hard fieht, whero tho questions of Tiol
icy nnd. expediency jcomo -Into play.
Grahnm will bo fortunate ns compared
to somo other governors, who hnvo
fe'.t that they had obligations and po
liticnl debts to pay.
LUMBER WANTED
All kinds and sizes of nativo lumbci
in car lots only. Writo and fctatc quan
tity, kind, size and price, f. o. b. your
station. Address, "Lumber Dealer,"
c'o Phoenix OIllco, Brattleboro, Vt.
LEGAL NOTICES.
ESTATE OF HENRY F. GOODENOUGH
UTATE OF VER.MCi.-T,
J District of Mailboro. SS.
Tho Honorable Probate Couit lor the
District Aloresuld:
To the heirs and all persons interest
ed in the estate of Henry F. lioodeuougn
Into of Biattleboro, in said dlstilet de
ceased. ("reetlng:
Whereas, application hath been mado
to huh court in writing, by too adminis
tratrix, playing for license and authority
etc.: traveling bo;l planer, a goou one, ::r, to t-eu an oi real estate ot nam ueceaseii
Theso aro tho days when tho great
outdoor is calling. After a long nnd
tedious winter it is a plcasuro to roam
over the hills and bask in tho glori
ous sunshine. It is also n time when
serious forest fires nre started from a
match carelessly thrown aside, or
from a cigar butt dropped into a pilo
of leaves. It is a duty for every per-
Bon who enjoys tho outdoor lifo at
this period of tho year to use every
precaution against starting a blaze
that fanned by tho wind may despoi
tho scenery and cause incalculable
damage.
horso power motor. 10 horse power ino
tor, 7 1-L' horse power motor, 3 horse
power motor, grain mill and corn crack-or.
FARMING TOOLS. Five new sulky
plows, 2 second-hand sulky plows, 3 corn
Planters, i cultivators, a nnnu plows,
mowing machine, manuro spreader, hay
teauer. ensl ago cutter, corn Harvester.
potato planter, potato digger, nnd a largu
quantity of otner tools too numerous to
mention.
About 13 tons of good baled hay.
Al'TOMCPILES, WAGON'S, CARTS,
SLEDS and HARNICf-S. Three heavy
two-horso wagons, 2 dump carts, Con
cord buggy; top carriage. 3 twohorse
sleds, ono-horso sled, 2 sleighs, model 43
Bulck touring car, In good condition, 3
sets team harness, light driving hurnoss.
Ijirgo quantity of household furniture.
Severnl thousand feet of logB and
sawed lumber.
REAL ESTATE. Home farm, contain
ing about Iko acres, suitably divided In
to mowing, tillage, pasture and timber
land; lorgo set of buildings, modern and
up-to-date; llvo minutes' walk from rail
road station, high school, churches,
stores, and hotel. If you want a summer
homo or all-the-yeiir-around furm, look
this over; It will Interest you. Two cot
tugo houses for hired help. Two-tlilrda
or purchase price can icst on mortgage
at llvo percent. If purchaser so desires.
Ono hundred and seventy-live acres of
laud in Leyden, Mass., Known as tho
G. C. AVERILL ON TRIAL
Former Banker Charged with
Making Entries to Deceive
General Denial Mado by His Counsel,
Clarke C. Fitts Richard C. Avcriil
an Important Witness.
Tho case of tho United States vs
Gcotgo C. Avcriil, who is charged with
making falso entries on tho bookn of
tho Vermont National bank of Urattlo
boro with intent to deceive, when' ho
was president of tho institution, be
gan Monday nt the adjourned February
term of tho Fluted States district court,
in IJiirlliigton, Judge A. 1. Hnnd of
Acw l ork presiding.
A lurgo contingent of Brattleboro
residents nro there as witnesses, includ
ing several employed in tho Vermont
National bank when Mr. Avcriil was its
cities and viHagcs expended upon 1!
uhi. u. mum iiiKiinnjB, iiiciuiiing tno much nme, and it may be before tho
amount received from tho state, $118,- court two weeks.
901.3G; that the several tiowns and,. jury was uraw-ii, nuor many ciiai-
!H , ... li c il. . . ., i itnyea, ua i.uuua; Milium .uoilOIU, xSVVf
cities expended for tho support of the Havcn'; M. L. Brooks, St. Albans; L.
poor, $258,400.3.1; that tho several ; K. Brigham and F. S. Lanou, Burling-
towns, citic3, villages and incorporated t0! l- L. Hurnhnm, Richmond; A. O.
school districts expended for all other - Carpenter, Kssex Junction; George Foas,
. . ., . . . Hydo Park; Charles E. McISamara,
purposes except thoso heretofore enu- Vorthfleld: J. W. Reynolds. East Gcor.
NOTICE
Tho Into Horace W. Bailey, United
States marshal of Vermont several
representing to said court that t would years, was a iocr ui inu History, ira
bo bonelklul to the heirs and all poisons ditions and litorature of the state. He
uiiilvaiLU id lliu uaiuiu ut nam ui.-vi:uavu
to sell nald real estate and convert the i worked for years gathering a collec
fTndlbrbig"ngemto court tho consent! tion of hundreds of volumes of Ver
unci approbation in writing, of all tho.,nont books and pamphlets. The
heirs to said estate residing In this stato , . ., ,, ,
and setting forth tho situation of the Phoenix suggested somo timo ago that
,'C'wiiertenutron, tho said court appointed somo wealthy Vormont man who
and assigned tho 20th day or May. 101G. wished to do something for the stato
said district'. to hear and decide upon of permanent value should buy this
fcniu application ana petition, anu oruer
ed public notlco thereof to bo given to
nil persons Interested therein, by pub
lislilng said order, together with tho time
and nlncn of hearing, three weeks suc
cessively In The Vermont Phoenix, a
newspaper which circulates In the neigh
borhood of thoso persons interested In
said estate, nil of which publications
shnll bo previous to the day assigned for
hearing.
Therefore, you aro hereby notified to
nppenr before Bald court, nt tho time nnd
placo assigned, then nnd there In said
court to mako your objections to tho
granting of such license, if you see cause.
Given under my hand nt Urattleboro
In said district, this 4th day of May,
1910.
18-20 II. E. EDDY, Register.
mcratcd, $2,0.3,.iSl.S8. gia; Frank Talcott. Williston: W. F.
Tho lowest tax rate in any town or Shcpard, Barre; Frank Ford, Isle la
city for 11110 is sixty cents, and the IS. t Attnrnnv ,, .,,,
highest tax rate in any town or city pleted his presentation of the case to
is $2.90. the jury at noon. He will trv to prove
Tho tabulation further shows that V'at Mr' A-11, fl?m 0cto,)L'r 1914' to
l.n (ll 1 .. .. . uciuuill), Ji'JU, III.1UC Ol CUU3UU lO 1)0
the total bonded and net floating in-ima(lc ;aIw onrics on tho ,)ooks of lho
debtcdness of tho several municipal!-. Vermont National bank of Brnttleboro,
tics as of February 1, 1910 was $6,403,-! with intent to deceive tho national
55(3i 4i bank examiner and the comptroller of
mi i . , . 11110 currency. .
The total grnnd list for tho stnto for i detail Mr. Avcriil is accused of
1915, the latest availablo at this time, charging up to tho Shawmut bank of
is $2,514,400.78. j Boston $20,000 on December 5, 1914, on
ine dooks or tne isratticuoro panic, aim
that this was a false entry, as no mon
Men go and come, but institutions ley was passed. Again, December 15, a
ivo on forever. Wantastiquct lodge of ' similar charge of $14,700 was alleged
Odd Follows, founded 70 years ago, 0 ?avo ucen. . "inuo t0 T
. .. , ,. h ' liank, no remittance ever having been
saw in tho early years of its history made. Later it is alleged Mr. Avcriil
times of doubt and wavering, but un- said the figures were errors,
faltering members who believed in thol Similar transactions aro charged
tenets of tho fraternity held it togcth-1- 181 ir WKn i Tmn! "S
er, and today it is rejoicing in its rcservo banks, in sums varying from
now home, a beautitut building, equip- io,uuu to $2U,UuU, and also m dealings
ped for lodge, social and recreational with t,le Howland Pulp and Paper com
purposes. The order, with COO 'loyal,
members, nnd prosperous financially ns,torncy for Mr. Avcriil, made a general
an organization, will continuo a ways. denial of tho charges,
to .bo a factor , for bett'tonentiand up-l. Richard C. Avorill, son of tho de
ncf ! . ,..,!".V tiPA- K-t--i fendnut,.,wa3 on tho stand tho greater
lift in our community,- llfeOur liigh-lpart f Wednesday nnd yesterday. '
cr grado fraternal organizations bring, Tho son testified to certain entries
men closer together- nnd do a noblo mado by him in the ledger and cashier's
work of which the world outside has F1,ccI;s ,,0.ok t'1.0 osecutlon attempt-
but little realization. ,nri1n ...Ai, int.,t t ,ln,.ni.-,.
Mr. Fitts for tho defendant admitted
that no money passed in tho transfer of
deposits from the Vermont National
! bank to the Shawmut or Hanover
j banks.
Sinn Feinors .Surrender in Dublin j After the district attorney had of
Great Loss of Lifo Thrco Leaders fcred several specific dates and entries
. . T . in evidence, Judge Hand excluded a
fanot in .London. mnss of t.vjticnco tat raigi,t be put in,
Tho Sinn Feinors' Revolution in stating that this was not necessary to
Dublin, Ireland, which was in full'povo prima facio that tho defendant
swing at the end of last week, ended inserted tho figures to convince tho
on Sunday after soven days of fighting. ' comptroller that the bank's reserve was
The lenders first surrendered to tho stated amount, when it was not.
British troops nnd the following day 'rll, young man was subjected to a
the rank and (ilo marched out f rom '-fuelling questioning as to the meaning
(heir strongholds and laid down their.''1 eertain hgiires appearing on the
nriiis. A total of more
oners aro now in tho h
flinrifi.iu nml filinnf .
hipped to England for imprisonment ; V1" '.V!CH 0,1 which ino iiidietment ot
uid trial later. Avenll, sr., was based. 'lliey are
REVOLUTION SUBDUED.
laid down their "1 certain ngiires appearing on tno
than 1 000 pris-1 ',0"'is "10 ''nnk, mado by him
hands of tlio an-! under the direction of his father,
400 have beeu'"r ',v 'l's These figures were
s
and
The censorship has been very strict,
but it is evident that the loss of lifo
The law gives the widow
a third, If thero is any. but tho law fur-
nlphos nrithlni- T.ifo IllSUl'nnpf. nuts lln
Potter furm. Estimated to cut SOn.000 . ,,., ,,.i ri tim i,i nw lhi
feet of soft and hardwood lumber. Han-Kvhole. Insist fin knowing something
derson pasture, so-called, containing nbout tho Insurance wo advertise. Nn-
.Montpollcr
Nutting Pictures
NEW SUBJECTS
AT
CLAPP & JONES'S
Notlco Is hereby given to the fctock
holdcrs of the llruttleboro & Whitehall
Ilallroad company that tho annual meet
ing of said company will ho held at the
Prooks House in mi Id Urattleboro on the
27th Day of May, 1916
at 10.30 a. m.,
to net on tho following business:
1 To bear tho report of tho Treasurer
and other otllccrs.
2 To elect U Clerk.
M To elect a Hoard of Dlroctors.
' To transact any other buslnoss that
may leguuy como uoioro Bam meeting
Dated at Urattleboro, Vermont, May l
111 Hi.
IS-20 II. E. 1CDDV. Clerk.
about DO acres: an excellent pasture, sit
untcd due-half mllo from llcimirdston
village. Pasture and timber lot known
as Huinv lot, coiitaluliig about r0 acres
.Sprout lot, known as Kupp lot, contain
ing about 113 acres. Spiout lot, known ns
Itlvet lot. containing about 11 ncrcp.
Torrey Hill pasture and wood lot, con
taining auoui u acres, i-iom sprout 101,
containing u'bout S acres. Menitleld lot,
with about 100,000 feet of standing tim
ber. Prospective buyers will be shown the
real estuto at any time beforo tho sale.
Ten per cent of purchase price will bo
required on each parcel of real estate at
lho time same Is struck off,
Tetms at sule.
Kieo lunch at noon.
Sain jiosltlvo; no postponement.
Don't, forget tho dato!
A. H. Athorton, A, (J. Gallup, Auction
eers. .Frank n. Foster, Cleik.
LAURA F. BENJAMIN, Executor.
tlonal IJfo Insurance Co,
Vt. (Mutual.)
ALBERT C. LAIRD, Special Agent
Abbott Block, Brattleboro Vt.
Missed Something.
Mrs. McOrcevy was a dinner guest
one evening whero a noted oxplorer
was tho attraction. Being of n some
what languid turn of mind, she paid
more attention to her dinner than to
tho conversation. Alter dinner was
over she turned to ono of tho guests
and nsked:
"What wns that tiresome old ex
plorer talking about'?"
" Progressive Patagonia," was tho
reply.
"Hcally?" ashed Mrs. McOrcevy
with sudden interest. "And how do
you play It " New York Times.
collection intact. Tt is good news to
know that several individuals joined
in this good work nnd that the Ilailey
library has becomo tho property of
Middlebury college, whero it will be
nvailablo for tho uso of any person
interested in historical research.
Tho fact that Charles Evans Hughes
hns been very careful not to say that
ho would not accept tho Republican
nomiiintion for President is What is
worrying t ho friends of all tho other
presidential possibilities. Far from
eliminating himself from consideration,
Justico Hughes has left hi.nself in a
position to bo considered. lid has
merely refused to bo a candidate for
the nomination in tho sense of por
sonally Hooking it or encouraging his
friends to seek it for him. That is
why the feeling is growing that if tho
nomination is tendered to him ho will
ncccpt it, and that is why a majority
of tho Republicans ono moots stick to
Hughes as their first choice for tho
nomination.
amounts alleged to have been credited
to the Shawmut and Hanover banks of
was largo as 18S persons died in tho 108 011 as reserves lor the urattleboro
hospitals in Dublin. Of these 122 wore ! htt: "l"'0"' district attorney
Irish revolutionists and 00 Hritish sol-1 alicca the money never was passed
dicrs. This number docs not take into
account tho men who were killed out-
light in the streets. Among the latter
were a number of civilians who took
no part in tho fighting.
Tho Hritish authorities dealt sum
marily with three of tho leaders who
wore tried by court martini, found
guilty and shot Tuesday in tho Tower
of London. These men wero Patrick
The method of book-keeping pur
sued by tho Vermont National bank
was thoroughly (jone into and tho wit
ness was questioned on various de
tails of the work with minuteness. He
stood the ordeal exceedingly well and
at the close of the day, after being on
tho stand all the forenoon and all the
afternoon, he appeared fresher than
most ol tho jurymen and than the
H. Pease, the "provisional president of "Iistrict attorney. Ho was being cross
Ireland." Thomas .T. Clark and Thorn- quo9tioned when adjournment wns
as MacDonagh. Pearsc was the head talcu Ilt -J O clock.
of tho Sinn Feiucrs' rebellion. Ho
Among the prominent men present
was the son of an Englishman, but101" Bltlelioro were Judge Tyler,
was bom and educated in Dublin: Ho Pr' 'v 1 nmJ Ho1"
literature and hnd lectured in America
nnd other countries. He was only 34
years old. Clark and MacDonagh nre
not widely known, but they were
nmong his trusted lieutenants.
James Connolly, styled "cominnndent
general of the Republican army," is
a jirisonor in tho Tower of London,
seriously wounded. He will undoubt
edly share tho fate of his companions
at an early date. Premier Asnuith, in
a statement in I'arlinment yesterday,
ton, all directors nnd tho latter now
president of tho Vermont National
bank.
SENATOR SHERMAN TO SPEAK.
To Deliver tho Main Address at the Re
publican State Convention in Mont
poller May 2G,
Senator Lawrence Y. Sherman of Illi-
Intimated that tho trials of many other ,0's41wl1 ' l'1' .Vr tho " koyiioto" HpceeU
In Oriental schoolrooms each pupil
speaks his alottod task aloud, regard
less of his fellow scholars.
A wine mudo from tho juieo of ba
nanas is bring manufactured by two
Frenchmen living in cochlu-Chinn.
Ill 1 1 Hill I I'll IIIUI lliu ilium III IIMlll, Ullll'l . ., ... . . .. .
.evolutionists would bo l,y court mar- lt J1-0, 1lm1' tute conventio.. to
titil and not under judicial authority. '. ''"V Ma', 2? at Mtpyli;r, htnnh.y
The revolution spread to Gahvny nnd C; , V'lsl"1, ,''1;"nim" of tl10 "t-'i'l'l"'
other counties, but the outbreaks there ' :!ittco announces. Senator
.,i riii.., ., i. bhoriiian is known ns a very line
niiu ui't iii-i in it;.. iiiuiu ...in ii i.iili , r, . . - - ,
bodv of Sin., Feinors ia Cork, but V fllU eiithusiasnij and is the
prompt action there prevented a rovo-1 yoidto son candidate ot his stntJ
fut ion
Sackvillo street, tho moat beautiful
section of Dublin, which is remembored
by thousands of tourists from Ameri
ca, is a mass of ruins. The total loss
of buildings and contents from the
fires started while tho revolt was in
progress is estimated nt closo to $10,-000,000.
It's n real joko on tho barber when
ho doesn't get wise that tho man in
the chair is deaf.
for president. His speech will bo de
livered in the nftcrnoon.
Sonntor Shornmu was elected United
States senator March 20, 1013, to fill
the unexpired term of William Lori
nicr. He wns a member of tho Illinois
house of representatives from 1S07 to
11)03, and was speaker of tho hduso in
1S!)!)-1!01 and in 1001-1003. From 1001
to 1008 ho was licutenaiit-govornor.
Prom 1900 to 1013 ho was president of
tho board of administration of t'Jio
stnto of Illinois, having control of 17
stnto charities.
