ft
FULL LEASED
WIRE DISPATCHES
;:
CIRCULATION IS
OVER 4000 DAILY
THIRTY-NINTH YEAR
PRICE TWO CENTS Vrncm
SALEM, OREGON, FRIDAY, MAY 5, 1916
lUJU
i . . . . ...... . .
yLiit iyffllto jiiiiitiiym
JSANBS
GERMANY YIE
COMPLY W
I
fty in i
CARBANZA SAYS
A. LI IS Rl
ENGLAND MUST ALSO BE
MADE TO OBEY THIS LAW
CAvm,nn'. QfmAnf Full ti-airrlitfnmriirl onrl Fronk. J repente.,! and explici.lp pointed out
Makes Concession Out of Regard for Deep and Sincere
Friendship for the United States-Submarines Ordered
to Warn AH Merchant Ships Before Attacking Suggests
This Country Should. Compel England to Comply With
International Laws-Reserves Right to Withdraw Prom
ise If England Continues Unlawful Course
an enemy resorting to nil hinds of
ruses, whether permissible or illicit.
Hut apart from the possibility of er
rors, naval warfare, just like land war
'fare implies unavoidable dangers, for
i neutral persons and goods entering the
fighting zone. Kveu in cases wiiero
naval aetion is confined to ordinary
forms of cruiser warfare neutral per
Isons and goods repealedly eonio to
urrief. The German government has
the dangers from mines as they have
led to the loss of numerous ships. Tho
Herman government made several pro
posals to the government of the I'nited
States in order to reduce to a mini
I mum for American travelers and goods
the inherent dangers of naval warfare.
'. I'nfortunately, the government of the
I I'nited States decided not to accept the
; proposals. Had it accepted, the govern
lineut of tiio United States would have
1ipi.ii instrumental in preventing the
greater part of the accidents that
American citizens nave met. whu
meantime. The. OVrmun government
still stands bv its offer to come to an
agreement along these lines.
Moved by High Ideals
"As the Gorman government has re-
peatedlv declared, it cannot dispense
with tlie use of submarines as a weap-
on in the conduct of warfare against
eneniv trade. The (Ierman government,
however, has now decided to make fur
ther concessions, adapting the methods
of submarine warfare to the interests
of neutrals. Jn reaching this decision
the (Ierman government is actuated by
considerations which are above the lev-
IE IS SATISFIED
- 11 1 TERMS
Generals Scott and Okegon
Will Meet Again to Ratify
Agreement
BANDIT GANGS AGAIN
RENEW DEPREDATIONS
principle as outlined by the Scott-Ob- J
regon conference, ' announced Larran
za's secretary today. He further stated
that they had reached a " satisfactory
solution with regard to the presence of
American troops in Cninuahua. "
" r
Bandit Gangs Busy.
Columbus, N. M., May 5. Small
bands of Villistas from the foothills of
Guerrero are renewing their depreda
tions today. Officers regarded the
slaying of 1'. Hollis as evidence of re
turning nerve of the bandits. ,
The force which Colonel Uodd recent
ly routed was declared to have gather
ed together again.
Four hundred negro infantrymen, are
en route to relieve tiic Amerienn troops
at Dublan. These moves were south
ward. Military reports said a Cnr
ranza force at the Souorn state border
was engaged in a general movement.
Tuere were no details. The movement
was attributed to the reaching of an
agreement at 1 Faso.
I
Pershing Believed to Have
Villa Definitely Located
- Mexicans Fear Change
Berlin, May 5. That Germany yielded practically
every demand made in the United States submarine note
was conceded in the German reply made public here.
Every possibility of a break is apparently averted.
Germany's complete backdown was made conditional
on the success of efforts it urges America to make to
force Great Britain to observe fully the principles of in
ternational law.
Germany fully concedes President Wilson's contention
that in the future no merchantmen, whether freight or
nnsspnopr liners, shall be sunk without warning, either
within or without the war zone around the British Isles
nnlpss t.hpv resist or attempt to escape. Wilson has al
ready conceded the German right to sink ships under such
conditions.
Rnhn-mvinp rnmmanders have already received new
orders, meeting fully the demands made. The government j
expresses implicit confidence that these orders will be ex-;
prmfprl in (rnnd faith. !
The Lokal Anzeiger said today: "we nope uuii -7,e appeal
spnsp nt the nistice ot tne Americans win ue suusueu witu:,,.vtrim,,nl of
- ,1. 11 ....
Germany's friendly advance, made out 01 uie iuh
knowledge of the. power, success and justness of our
cause, The Herman standpoint cuimut ue uiuu;, ,,.... ,)ut ihv,
iinsprl nn nrincinles of international law and;Uvt.rnment which, by ignoring nil the
humanity which America nas repeatecuy maimaineu.
THINK VILLA LOCATED
.-
l'S-
By E. T. Conkle.
(I'nited Press sniff corres
pondent.) F.l Paso, Texas, May 5. (leu
erul l'crshing is believed to
have definitely located Francis
co Villa, according to an an
nouncement at General Funs
ton's headquarters today. The
announcement was based on a
telegram from Persuing. Villa's
location was suppressed here.
el of the disputed question.
"The (Ierman government attaches CAKR VNZ.V . XX .li . .0 heixu . .qoix
no less importance to the sacred prin-J By E. T. Conkle.
ciples of humanity than the govern-j (rnitcd Press staff correspondent.!
inent of the I'nited States. It ag:nn i; f'as0, Texas, Muv 5. Generals (b
fully takes into account timt both gv-.r,,UIl m j-;ot,t t ut their final meeting
erniiieuts for many years have co-oi.cr- t0(.iy ,,XIH,,.U,, to formally ratify the
ated in developing the international ngr,.;.m(.nt covering operntiiins of Amer-
law in contormity wUJi tnese I i- ; trols j .t,xi,.0. fili,rit modifi-
Both Factlocs Sore.
By H. D. Jacobs.
(I'nited Press Staff 101'rcspoiident.)
Nnniiquipn, jresico. liny !. (By
wireless.) News of tho contemplated
Americnn withdrawal from Mexico mys
teriously reached the natives today,
causing great uneasiness among Mex
icans who have furnished stolen beef
supplies to the expedition. A numbet
cume to camp and asked whether the
reports of a withdrawal were true and
whether the Carrauzistas or Villistas in
tended to make reprisals.
It is feared that Americans are nlso
doomed to suffer the wrath of both fac
tions for supplying the expedition with
provisions. Friendly natives foresee n
reign of terror surpassing that of th
Germans Capture Some
Trenches From French and
Stir Up British
AM0TI1ER CLASH
UNLESS ENGLANO
Berlin, May 5. (By wireless via .Say
ville, L. I.) Uermun troops occupied a
salient west of Avcourt after driving
out the French by artillery fire, it wan
officially announced today. After de
stroying the position, the Germans
abandoned it.
"Southeast of Hnueourt several
trenches Were captured and tho occu
pants made prisoners," said tho state
ment. "Repeated auncks against Ger
man positions west of the Dend Man's
hill completely broke down. Kast of the
Meuse there was intense artillery fight
ing." Lively lombnts occurred on the Bri
tish front between Armiutieras and Ar
ras. !N"ar Givenchv-Ku-Gobelle, there
was much hnnd grenade work around a
mine crattr in which the British gained
a temporary footing.
South of the hVmine patrols entered a
position, and v "rn repulsed by n counter
attack.
"A British biplane was captured on
the ct.nst venr Holland, but its occu
pants escaped," the communique said.
" Gorman air squadron heavily bom
barded railroads nt Nobletts,. Auve Hnl
ley and also Sanger Suippes. "
to saleguaru as tar as
I ...1...J ... n.im.ict ttlrt
posihie uun-cuiuniujiiii .t..... (
horrors of war. Hut although the con-;
sideratious are of great weight, tney
alone would not under present circum-.
kImiiccs have determined the attitude
fl.irmnn p-nvernlliont.
bv tho
ihe I'nited States on
behalf of" Ihe sacred principles oi nu
mMTiitv and international law the Ger
man government .must repeat once more
with .'HI em uiasis uiai
Market Breaks at Opening
But Soon Recovered
New York, May 5. Tlie New York
F.veaiag Sun's financial review today
saul :
The market rendered a good account
of itself when subjected to a severe test
on the reply to the Aiucrienn ultimatum,
a reply which ninny think will result
in a severance of diplomatic relations,
though on that point none ran speak
with nssurnnce. It broke sharply at the
opening, from a fraction to 1!) points
lower on Bethlehem, but opening prices
were the lowest of the day to late aft
ernoon, in most instances, and after
a brief period o'f semi-demoralization
recovered. The mosr conspicuous poo
and clique specialties regained all their
COMES THROUGH
ii
This Is What' Washington
Officials Expect From Ger
many's "Conditions"
THESE HAVE NOTHING TO
DO WITH PRESENT CASE
Up to United States to Maks
England Also Obey Inter
national Laws
a 's
ACKEEMAN 13 RELIABLE
pnnci
pies, the ultimate object ot wincii nas f ti ),.. piidt Wilson and "First
always been to confine wartare on si a (.hi,,f ('im.llllza before they gave their
and land to the armed forces of the bel- lip).ovill to tht, )m,.t it w'ns Mieved,
i:.. .....i in vtiiWiMinl ns tar as 1 1 r , , . ,. . n..
iiui-n-Min - wouiu nor a ter ine nans esseuuaii.v.
No further changes are anticipated, i early losses and sometliing in nditition.
Scott and Fnnston plan to leave ftl Business was conducted on a large scale
Paso for the east and Obregon for Mex- in the forenoon and liquidation was
ico City. I heavy, forcing a stop to loss orders. But
Pnrt'of the agreement, if not the en- it quieted down ns the session progress
tire text, will be made public as soon ed. While it remains to be seen wheth
as it is signed, it was announced. er the verdict of the speculative ele-
Scott notified Obregon this after- ' ment is reduced by the community in
noon that instructions had arrived from 1 general, there is no doubt that the op-
Washington for the fimii conference, lie position standard issues otter to forces
Obregon Ko set the time and ot contraction indicate a stronger tecli-
British l'luce- inicni position iiiun many oeiieveu ex-
icu.
Fierce Night Attack.
Taris, May S. Germans launched ter-r'-Cic
attacks during the night against
French positions north of Hill .'Id I, the
Keystone of the French defense north
wot of Verdun. The charge was pro
ceded by a violent artillery action.
Tho Germans entered ndvnncod
trenches at a few points, it was official
ly cdmittcd, but elsewhere they were
hurled back with losses. . ,
Fast of the Meuse and on the Woevre
Plain there was nn intermittent bom
bardment. South of the Somine, a Ger
man attack failed.
Berlin. Mav ri. (Via wireltss to
Sayville, I,. T.) Following is the text
(,f (!i rinr-ny's reply, to the late-t Anier-
icr.n note regarding tne use oi suoum
is actually identical with the Sns-,
Tlie German government begs toj
accepted rules of international law, ex
tended tins terrinie w.n w
...,.i .,,ni.itv of nnn-combntants, nav-
i,n rcirnrd whatever
ets and rights of neutrals and non-
.1. .l....vl. ttiiu nipt h (111
I , , . .. Hi COlll I Ml I II II I S WHICH, ui.ui.h.
I ....... ..ri. r-.irftiif cominnnications on tlie ,. ... i ...,,-,.riW' nuiir-
, lot wartare, muc " .' 1 j.
I matter u:.ti certain points are nscer-i , s,.if ,u.f,.nsc against the illegal S(.
1 w'.ich are ef decisive import-, ,.0nduct of British wan are wnne
for est.btishing the facts of the; jug a bitter struggle fornat ex
Shoihl it turn out that the com- istence, Germany had to r.s rt I ni
der w:.s wrong in assimiiiig the ves-.nard but ctiecine
the German, line wunan-. o.nl
Kapa xne uuilcu aiuitu
As matters stand the German go
of tlie veriiment cannot lint reiteiaie n
I hat. the sentiments or ui"i.'
I Carranza Accepts Terms.
' Mexico City, Mex., May 5. Pro-
1 visional President Ciirrnn.a has nccept-
for the inter-1 (''' l uitcu Mates proposals ""in
The high school baseball team left
this morning for Corvallis, playing
this afternoon .ind tomorrow.
I tain
I a ai"?
i case,
maud
' sel to be n
"ii.es:
"The undersigned on behalf of tne
Tiiitiial German government has the
howir tc. i resent to His Kxcellency. Mr
i. nf Hio I'niteil States, i'.'. I o..l in l.n n man of war.
.Ii.r.mi,. W. Gerard, the following reply n-nvernment will not fail to draw the
to the role of April L'O regarding the '. consequences resulting therefrom
1. ..a n ..Lxiflrliiu w.irfiirrt . nr.. ......tlmi with the case 1
if. 111. 1.1 1 111 vn-1 111a 11 I'.'" ' ' 1 j 11 1 1111111 1 i.w . .- iX 1
"The German government lian.led Sussex, the government ot tne !" " v..r,,,..nt of the ("niled
over the to the proper naval authorities ; s,.,t,,3, nia,H. series of statemen s ' ,,,, ,-,,,.vor ,0 the
for further investi'-ation the note con-ist 0f w),ich is the assertion hat the St ut xt '".. , sarie warfare
cerning the Sussex as communicated by! r,,,.!,,,,,,, is to be considered but oat-unhappy 't s siMuar
the government of the I'nited States, j JnKfein,.e for (evidently should re,d were not wt 1 ' .
.Indging by the results thntMnvestiga- . (lf ) a .hdibernte nietuon or """ "" 7, ,,i,ron, who, ac-
m ot ves-eis 01 an f .,,
cording to ine auvnn -
.. . ... ui... 1 tin dtiirvei
th" ship mentioned ill the note of April (l ,,, submarine, commanders. 1 ne i,rinn K" , invrings, shall
jo as torpedoed by a German subma-, (,,., K0vcrnment, however thinks and w ho t .ir .
!tuiU iii tip I ivs out st:i'e i
-1- 1 -i- -i- -1- -f -i- .
Steps IrTGerman-American Submarine Dispute.
1.111 1 i-t. ..rtn viiitilii.l G11. (ermnil eoV- .in .Lmtrin'l ion
T iTiment is alive to the possibility that nationalities and destinations by
ABE MARTIN
affairs, tral powers into .gnoiiiinous jjapituln
unent of tiu... The Genua,, government .,. agree-
.:,.. .111, tin. German people, fails 10
all the
readv to use tne
strict conform.
more particularly as tie go e . , "'"",'. cj. people
I'nited States oinnici u. m...... ... aiw-rimination
the assertion by reference to - w(,uly and explic
vt'iucts. . . ..... ...... !.. f
Is Considerate Of JNeuirais ;'" -
The German government win o. . .. "" ';" " .'' . nf internatio.ini law
reionii.'r'i - - .., ... ii
.tint, of the war if Great I'.ritaia l'"'"'
,cr conduct or wur.... i
Li . ntti.iniit made by tne
the I nited Man-"
I
to
state that it has imposed tar reacniug ly '',. ,,, ()1,tlircak of
,,.ctrnlnt niion the use of the sumn-i
riim u-uiiiiiin siilidv in consider
neutrals' interests in spite of the fact adopt
.I,..., roatr.i-tinua neces-..'i r i I v were rules.
1 '"" : : ... i., ,..t nf
of advantage to (.erina.i; s ,., u"' : " ;., ,,;.;,l, imvernnient to
I No such consideration has ever i.een prevai. up... - - nil of the
shown, neutrals by (treat Br,,,.,., and act aceor d.n . ta , . d .
he" allies. t.at rem m 1 (ircat Britain
I "German submarine forces have had, government. "r,.""' ,'-. vioat
I in fact, orders to conduct submarine ever since has ng:i n 1 ' tt,
I warfare in accordance with the general ,.,1 intcnianonnl lawr' 1 , 7 ,,,u
'principles of visit, search and destrue- bounds and outraging rieum t
Ition of merchant ve-wls recognized by The latest measures adopted i) '
i international laV, the sole exception Britain declaring (..rnmt "
! being the conduct of warfare against ,ontrabrand and establishing t 11
enemv trade curried nn ene.nv freight un.l.-r which Fnglish buiiKer
: ships encountered in the war one sur-',.nn be supplied to ncutraK is mi . h
I rounding tire.it Britain. Witu regard to ,t an unheard of nttemi.t ) .
I these no assurances ever have been giv- exaction to force neutral toniug.
'en to the xivernment of the I'nited service and trade in wnr- .
' states." N such assurances was con- Voices German bentimeni.
Itaiiied in the declaration of February "The German people know tl.ut i e
S l!G.i. 'government of the I'mte.l States b
n confine the war to tne
Unit anv doubt that these orders were , arm(., fr,.,.s of the belligerent conn
1 given ami are executed in good faith, tries in the interest of humanity anil
- " Krrors nctuallv occurred. 1 ney can the maintenance 01 inim.....""-"
In .1,. kind of warfare be avoided nl- The iroverumetit of tho United fctatos
Gittin ole is jest g.ttin' more sense, together and allowances mutt ne ma le
Two niuiitus in jail 'li remove freckle, in the conduct of naval warfare against
1111 . .
February 1915 Germany announced beginning
of Von Tirpitz campaign against merchantmen,
effective at midnight February 18.
February 11 The United States protested "in
the strict accountability" note.
February 16 Germany offered to withdraw her
submarine order if Great Britain permitted her to
import food.
February 18 The Von Tirpitz campaign began
with the sinking of the French steamer Ville De
Ville.
February 19 Germany replied to the American
protest, declaring the submarine war was a re
prisal against the British blockade.
May 7 Lusitania sunk.
May 1:5 President Wilson sent Lusitania protest
to Germany.
August 19 Arabic sunk.
October 15 Germany disavowed Arabic sinking,
promising to sink no passenger liners without
warning.
February 10, 1916 Germany announced that be
ginning March 1, all enemy armed merchantmen
would be treated by submarines as ships of war.
February 15 United States demands with
drawal of order.
March 21 Senate and house vote to stand back
of Wilson.
March 25 Sussex disaster, then within short
time, Eagle Point, Manchester Engineer and Ber
windale destroyed.
May 5 Germany replies to American demands
for change in mode of submarining.
Another Zeppeun "Sunk."
Salonika, May 5 A Gcrinnn Zeppelin
bent on raiding the nllies' camps here
was destroyed today. This is the sec
ond Zeppelin reported destroyed wit'-
ln zl hours.
Air and Other Ships Clash.
Vienna, May 5. Austrian torpedo
boats clashed with nn Italian squadron
at tho mouth of the Po river on Wed
nesday wli.Io Austrinn aeroplanes were
bomoardiug Knvcnuu, it was announced
otticiullv today.
An enemy airship crossed the mouth
of tho Wippnch dropping bombs, the
statement said.
Returning, German artillery and aero
plunes attacked the airship which was
set afire and dropped in tho Goritz
drill ground. Jcour occupants were
killed.
"Italian infnntrty increased its at
tivity at Tolmino bridgehead and the
district of ilitsch and on several sec
tors along the Carpathian front."
(Continued on Taje Nine.)
$ TODAY'S BALL SCORES
New York
Boston
Fisher, Mogr'nlg.
I(illi and Tho:nas.
American.
II. H. K,
H 11 !
I ' li I
and Niinumaker
Shawkey replaced
Mognclge. Mays replaced Hull.. Gregg
replaced Mays. Agi.ut.' replaced 1 aom
is. IS innings.
Washing ton-Ph iladidpli in.
wet grounds.
post polled
It.
H.
Cleveland .1 7
Chicago u 7
Covnleski and () .Neil; liussell und
Schalk. Ilenz replaced itussell.
it. H.
St. I.ouis 5 U 1
Detroit i Z
Plunk and Hartley: J iinninglium anil
Staling.;. Boland replaced Cunningham
Boston-New
grounds.
National.
York,
. Fight days ago Carl W. Ack
erninn in .1 United Press dis
patch from Berlin accurately
forecasted the tenor of the Ger
man siibni.iri.ie note. He said:
"The crisis in the German
.American situation growing out
of the. submarine issue, has vir
tually passed.
"There will be no break pre
dicated on the developments to
date. This statement was m.ido
to.lav on excellent authority.
"Pending negotiations tor a
more complete understanding,
German submarine command
ers will be under certain ex
plicit instructions from the ad
miralty." The text of tho reply con
firms tho I'nited Press forecast,
-.
By Robert J. Bender.
Mlnlted Press staff correspondent
Washington, May o.-Wiihin JO
ntes utter ine mm. i
prui,hs of tho German reply to the
Sricun submarine demands ie-''ed
W..shi.iL'ton. President Vinson u..u m
cabinet met to consider the communica
tion. , , . , .....
Hie cabinet memu-rs nuu .. si
ting the reply piecemeal ..
wires. The contercce was with on
apparent thought Germany n'
ceded the demands but there was soma
show of uncertainty becauso condition
arc made. .
Tho sudden transition or u.e "hv
from u sarcastic, contcuuous iu...,
littling the L'nitcd States attitude, to-
flat statements thai met, 1'".""; -
i i i! .. I... tint irnutrn -
concessions cuiie.i .or uj ...v b
inent, left the cabinet oriicerj bu.uu-
what conriiseil.
Tho gcnernl disposition seemed 10 ....
to consider tlie suomari.io i"
tically closed for the time being.'
.... ... .. ...... .!..rmiiriv rcniHre'
1 no laci. i""1- j . 1 ,
Greut Britain to cease operations mo
terms contrary to iatei nat lonal law was.
expected, and at tint oiusu u......a.T
inclined to the request that America
undertake to bring about suca cua..s.,
is may be .justifiable.
It was pointed out that Germany
has issued an order that meets tnu nu.
erienn contentions.
If Germany later, liccnuse tne i n...
States fails to bring i.reiu ......
ii... ilnriiitii. contentions, iesc.uiu
in i.i -1 ..... .... .-
the
I... ..
to Tuce. This has no part in tne p.c.:..
situation, it was said. .
On the other hand some ofticiai
believe that Germany has nga.u
" passed the buck ' ' to the I'nited States.
The very nature of tne reply "put tin
country on probation," making success
ful settlement of the present ditiieulty
entirely dependent upon America 8 at
titude to Great Britain. So far as ta
co.iccrneii unions
rtam caustic ir-
order iinnounced today, tncie
.. .1. . . I t,it..
new issue lor iuu . ..n.
language is
i....liiu.il to nass over ccr
relevant passages "lor home consump
'"u'ejccUon of this country's cvidcucft
R. It. K.
post.onct, wet
Pliiln.lclpliiu-Brouklyii,
wet gruiiiids.
I
postponed.
It.
K.
II.
Cincinnati 1"
St. Louis l 15
Knet.er and Clark; Meadows nnd
Gonzales. Mitchell replaced Knet.er.
Snllee replaced Meadows. Jasper re
placed Sullte.
It. II. K
fhlcnoro 5 " 1
Pittsburg
McCounell and Archer; llurmnn,
Man.mnux ard Schmidt. Hendr.x re
nluccd .McConnell. Scaton r.Mdnced lieu
driit. Knntleliner replaced MuinT.aux.
1J innings.
(Continued on Page J,
THE WEATHER
fwio .said
Oregon: To
night nnd Satur
day showers;
cooler east por
tion tonight;
southerly wimU.
