First
Maui County Fair!
Nov. 30, Dec. 1 and 2
Boost The
Maui County Fair
VOLUME XXIII.
WAILUKU, MAUI CO., HAWAII. AUGUST 25, 1916.
NUMBER 27.
. Many Take Part In
Corner Stone Laying
Dedication Of Begining Cf Beautiful
Henry Perrine Baldwin Memorial
Is Auspiciously Carried Through
Most Beautiful Church In Islands
Interesting and impressive were the
services in connection with the laying
of the corner-stone of the new Maka
wao Union Church, on last Sunday
morning. A beautiful day seemed
prophetic of a splendid consummation
of work of love so wef.l begun, and
the large congregation assembled
entered into the spirit of the occasion
with earnest enthusiasm. Following
the Doxology, the services were open
ed by the minister, the Rev. A. Craig
BowdlBh with an invocation ; and then
followed a song and scriptural service
appropriate to the occasion. Mr. Bowd
ish was assisted by the Rev. R. B.
Dodge, who read a lesson from the
scripture and delivered a short ad
dress. At the actual placing of the stone,
the Hon. H. A. Baldwin, on behalf of
the donors of the splendid memorial,
read a brief address, replete with feel
ing and expressive of the motives that
had prompted the giving of a church
that will certainly rank second to
none in the Islands in point of beauty
and appropriateness.
On,e of the most appreciated feat
ures of the occasion was the singing
of two anthems by the famous Molo
kal Choir, which happened to be on
Maul at the time. A duet by Mrs.
Louise C. Jones and Mr. Harry Wash
' burn Baldwin, was also beautifully
rendered.
Sealed in a copper box and embed-
Contents of the Stone
ded in cement in the center of the
corner-stone, the following: Copy of
the beautiful book "A Memoir of
Henry Pcrrino Baldwin," by Arthur
D. Baldwin; copies of programs for
the inaugural recital and dedicatory
memorial service of the "Henry Per
rine Baldwin Organ," of the Wailuku,
Union Church, June 21 22, 1913;
names of the committee representing
the family of the late Henry Perrine
Baldwin, who are erecting the new
church building; a brief history-of the
. ' Maui Aid Association which was re
vived and largely financed by Mr.
Baldwin; a few brief items of church
history; a picture of the old church
building; a copy of the latest editions
of the Maui News and of the Wailuku
Times; a printed copy of program of
the corner-stone laying ceremonies;
a roster of the church membership;
a list of the ministers who have serv
ed the church.
A Splendid Building
" The work on the new church, which
is a memorial to the late Henry Per
rine Baldwin by his children and rela
tives, is progressing rapidly, and the
character of the workmanship and of
the materials going into the structure
indicate that it will be one of the most
substantial buildings in the Islands.
While the cost of the memorial has
not been made public, it is reported
that this cannot be far from $100,000.
Island Electric May
Be Sold On Coast
Public Utilities Commission Hears
That Negotiations Have Been Un
der Way To That End-Would-Be
Buyer Has Money
HONOLULU, August 24. That
negotiation are under way for the sale
of the Island Electric Company, of
Maui, was made public Tuesday after
noon by Charles R. Forbes, chairman
of the public utility commission, at a
meeting of that body. F. E. Blake,
manager of the Hawaiian Electric
Company of Honolulu, was present at
the commission's session, and in the
course of the talk he admitted that
the Honolulu concern at one time was
considering the purchase of the Maui
corporation's plant and property, but
that negotiations failed, as a satis
factory valuation could not be agreed
upon.
Forbes said he had been approached
InSan FrauciBco by a man giving the
name of Van Sant, who said he intend
ed purchasing the Maul company and
wanted to get some information con
cerning its standing as a public utility.
Blake said he had met the same man
here and that he had reason to believe
Van Sant was able financially to hand
le the dea)l. Mr. Van Sant had told
Forbes he seriously contemplated the
purchases. The talk did not disclose
any figures as to the price asked by
R. E. Bond, president of the Maui corp
oration, or the amount offered either
by the Honolulu firm or by the Coast
man.
It is understood Mr. Van Sant is a
contractor who has handled a number
of large projects on the Coast.
Are you doing your part for the
MAUI COUNTY FAIR?, The time is
getting short.
Harold Rice Quits
Maui Agricultural
To Become Small Farmer On Big
Scale Ra.ich And Farm Interests
To Occupy Time Promotions
On Plantation Follow
In order to devote his full time to
his extensive ranch properties, Har
old W. Rice, for the past five years
assistant manager of the Maui Agri
cultural Company, has resigned his
position, same to take effect Septem
ber 1. His place will be fiTed by S.
Hocking, head luna of the Paia sec
tion of the big plantation. A number
of other changes In way of promotion
are likely, but as yet have not been
definitely announced.
Through the acquisition of the big
Cornwell Ranch, a few weeks ago, to
gether with the very considerable
other agricultural interests which he
already held in Makawao, Mr. Rice ex
pects to have his time well filled in
"sma'i farming." Mr. Hocking, who
comes into the main office at Paia,
has been with the Paia plantation for
twenty years or more in various capac
ities, and his promotion is generally
held to be well deserved.
Young Engineer To
Cast LotWith China
Assistant To County Engineer Cox
Takes Bride And Plans To Work
In Country Of His Ancestors
Bride Is Sister To Mrs. Tom Gun
Apau Paul Low, assistant county en
gineer, - and one of the brightest
young Chinese of the Territory, was
married at 8 o'clock last Tuesday ev
ening in Honolulu to Miss Anna V.
Tong, a charming-American bo'.le of
San Francisco, who had arrived the
same morning by the steamer Lurline.
The ceremony was performed by the
Rt. Rev. Henry Bond Restarick, at the
home of the groom's brother. The
happy young couple will make their
home for the present in Wailuku.
Mr. Low met his bride while he
was studying at Stanford University,
several years ago. She was a student
at the University of California, and is
the daughter of a wealthy Chinese
merchant of Sau Francisco. She is a
sister of Mrs. Tom Gunn, the young
aviator, who made the only aeroplane
flouts ever attempted on Maui.
May Go To China
Although both Mr. Low and his
bride are American-born and are very
frankly American in sentiment, it is
understood that they contemplate
leaving for China in the no distant
future, where they expect to become
actively identified with the great mod
ern development which is so rapidly
awakening that vast country . Mr.
Low has been connected with the
county engineer's office for upwards of
a year, and is said to be rendering
most satisfactory service. He holds
high record for scholarship in his
university, and those who are acquain
ted with him be.'leve a brilliant future
awaits him in the practice of his pro
fession in China.
Senator Baldwin Must
Quit National Guard
Because Cod. H. A. Baldwin will
probably be a candidate for re-election
to succeed himself as member of the
senate, in next fall's elections, he will
be compelled to drop his commission
as commander of the Third Infantry,
N. G. H. This is in accordance with
what has come to be accepted as the
requirement of the Organic Act which
prohibits a member of the territorial
legislature from being "appointed or
elected to any office of the Territory of
Hawaii.".
Major Harry B. Penhallow ,who does
not intend to run for re-election will
continue to hold his commission.
The matter, which came up some
months ago, was brought to a head
last week through the resignation of
Capt. H. L. Holstein, of Kohala, who,
acting upon private advices from
Washington, insisted on leaving the
guard on account of the fact that he
will again be a candidate to the legis
lature. General Sam Johnson states
that an effort will be made to have the
Organic Act amended by Congress so
as to remove the technical disability.
PLEADS GUILTY TO FORGERY
GETS OFF WITH FINE
Dumas Pacheco, of Kahului, was
fined 80 by District Magistrate Mc
Kay, on Wednesday, on his plea of
guilty to a charge of forgery. The
fine was paid. The young man, who
had been employed by Contractor J.
Emmesley, signed his employer's
name to a check for $50 which he
later had cashed by L. Apana, a Kah
U'ui tailor. I'achcco's pica for mercy
was based on the ground that he was
drunk.
Civic Convention
Plans Taking Shape
Special Rates For Maui Delegation
Program Covers 5 Days Sight
Seeing Trips Arranged For
County Fair Should Appeal To AH
HILO, Aug. 23. Everything points
to a most successful civic convention
and county fair at Hilo on September
21, 22, 23, 24 and 25. The arrange
ments are a'. I perfected and every
body connected with the two b'g af
fairs declares that Hilo is going to
put up a record for actual business
accomplished and entertainment ar
ranged for the visitors to the Cres
cent Bay City.
The various committees are work
ing hard on their parts of the program
and. one and all, the members say
that things are lining up in good
shape.
The Inter Island Steamship Com
pany has quoted a reduced rate for
round trips from the different islands
to Hilo. Kauai people will be able
to visit Hilo and return to the Garden
Island at twenty-five dollar rate. That
is a great reduction and it will cover
the trip from Kauai to Honolulu to
Hilo and back over the same route.
Maul folk can avail themselves of
a round trip ticket which will cost
twelve and one-half dollars. In both
cases the Kauai and Maui people
must see to it that at least fifteen
delegates make the trip. Otherwise
the reduced rate will not apply on
the steamers. It would be advisable
to make reservations as soon as pos
sible as it is certain that there will
be a large rush of delegates seeking
stateroom accommodation on the Mau
na Kea.
The. civic convention opens at Hilo
on Thursday morning, September 21,
at nine o'clock. The whole proceed
ings will be over by Monday afternoon
and the delegates can all be home on
Tuesday morning. During their stay
In Hilo the visitors will have a rail
road excursion to Laupahoehoe, a trip
to the Volcano, a trip through Puna,
a dance, a banquet, a minstrel show
provided by th'e Honolulu Ad Club
and a dozen other features thht will
keep them busy and amused when not
working on convention matters proper.
The ladles who visit Hilo will be
specially entertained by the committee
appointed to look after them. Card
parties, afternoon teas and other
features will be provided for the visit
ing ladles. They will, of course, also
be taken on the railroad and auto
mobile trips.
The county fair plans are going
ahead well and the prospects are that
the huge Kuhio Bay Wharf will be
crowded with exhibits of all kinds.
Entrie are rolling in and it is predict
ed that every section will be filled.
Beautiful silver cups and gold medals
have been donated as prizes for the
fair and the winners will bevery pleas
ed with the trophies they capture.
During last week representatives of
the Honolulu Star-Bulletin and the
Pacific Commercial Advertiser were in
Hilo gathering data for a special
number of each paper that will be is
sued before the date of the convention
and fair. This shows the interest
(continued on page 2).
Democrats Slow In
Announcing Ticket
Baldwin Believed To Be Easy Winner
For Senate Nomination Good
ness Chances Also Good Cooke
May Run
While it is understood that the
democratic leaders of Maui expect to
have a full ticket in the field for the
primary election, now about six week
off, they are taking their time about
it. for as yet but a single bourbon has
turned in his nomination papers, so
far as is known. This is M. Picanco,
of WaKuku, a well known stone con
tractor, who Is willing to take a seat
in the lower house of the legislature if
the electors of the county see fit to
send him.
The republican list seems fairly full.
W. F. Pogue, whose name was men
tioned last week, has gotten in the
game from Makawao district, together
with A. F. Tavares, who wants another
terra in the House. Although it Ik
understood that G. P. Cooke, of Molo
kal is to run for the senate again,
nothing has yet been heard definitely
from him, though he may have filed
his nomination papers directly in Ho
nolulu. H. A. Baldwin, seems about
certain of succeeding himself in the
st-nate, whv'e the wise ones think that
Peruvia Goodness will have no trouble
in defeating Waiaholo for a Sinate
seat.
Don't wait to be asked get right
out and do something for the FIRST
MAUI COUNTY FAIR November 30,
December 1 and 2.
Small-Pox Suspect
In Kula Prison Camp
Case Isolated And Whole Camp Un
der Quarantine Victim From
Wailuku Source Of Disease
Is Mystery
The entire prison gang working on
the roads in Kula has been tied up
hard and fast in their quarters for the
past week on account of the develop
ment of a case suspiciously like small
pox in one of the men. The suspect,
according to Dr. C. P. Durney, who
first saw the case, Is strongly suspic
ious, and as a, result the sick man has
been Isolated with .tnotjier convict,
who has had the u se, as a nurse.
The others are h. : 1 simply as "con
tacts" and will be released from the
quarantine as soon as the period of
incubation is past, provided no further
cases develop.
The man who is ill is a Filipino who
has been in the gang hut a short time.
He formerly lived In Wailuku on the
north side of the stream. A careful
search of his former haunts fails to
reveal any evident source of his in
fection, which consequently remains a
mystery.
Pipe Delay Holds
Up Waterworks Job
Lack Of Material Prevents Comple
tion Of Important Contract
Would Relieve Situation Garcia
Would Have New Reservoir
By the present time, barring the de
lay in arrival of the necessary pipe,
the reconstructed Wailuku- Kahului
waterworks system would be supply
ing an abundance of pure Iao Valley
water to consumers. As it Is, it Is im
possible to say when the job will be
doner-, A part of the pipe has arrived,
but the uncertainty of getting steel
products at present, together with diff
iculties in transportation have made
the contract of the Hugh Howell Com
pany, with the Loan Fund Commission,
a pure piece of guess work. Most of
the excavation and tunnel work has
been done for several weeks, as has al
so the diverting dam and settling
basin, and with the pipe on hand two
weeks should see the job ready for
turning over to the county .
Advises New Reservoir
Antone Garcia, superintendent of
the local waterworks, in his monthly
report to the County Engineer, rec
commends that steps be taken to have
constructed a new 500,000 gallon res
ervoir near the present one to provide
storage. Mr. Garcia, in speaking of
the matter stated that the present
reservoir holds scarcely sufficient for
one day's supply for Wailuku and Kah
ului. and that in case of an accident
to the supply main a water famine
would be at once imminent . The cost
of the new reservoir, he says, would
be about J5000.
The superintendent reported col
lections made for the month of July
of 11589.52 .
Management Of Paia
Orpheum To Be Changed
Alfred Nunes, of Paia, has sub-leased
the Paia Orpheum from the Well
er & VasconceKos syndicate, together
with the film rights of the larger com
pany throughout the Makawao dis
trict. The new arrangement will go
into effect on the first of September.
Mr. Nunes was formerly manager of
the Orph., and consequently is no nov
ice at the game. It is his intenUon
to conduct the business much as It
has been handled under the manage
ment of Manager Pharos, the same
class of pictures being shown. By
means of a portable electric outfit he
also plans to give frequent performan
ces in Hamakuapoko. Haiku, Makawao
and other points in the district. Phar.
os will confine his energies to Central
Maui houses.
IN HONOR OF YOUNG VISITORS
The Paia Community House will be
the scene of what promises to be a
most jolly party and dance at which
Miss Frances Baldwin of Hamakua
poko, and Miss Kuth Lindsay of Paia
will do the honors as hostesses to
some fifty of their young friends.
The affair is In the nature of a fare
well to Frances Baldwin's cousins,
I,ouise. Henry and Fred Baldwin, of
Cleveland, who have been visiting in
the Islands for some months past,
and who leave next week for their
home.
FARMERS TO ELECT OFFICERS
The annual meeting of the Haiku
Farmer's Association will be hold
next Saturday evening at the Kuiaha
schoolhouse at 7:30 o'clock, at which
time It is expected to elect officers for
the year and receive some important
reports. A good attendance is urged.
BOTH SIDES WIN AND
LOSE DURING WEEK
Of Fierce Fighting On Different Fronts French
Start New Offensive In West Submaine
Deutschland Arrives Home Safely Railroad
Labor Controversy More Hopeful
HONOLULU, Aug. 25 Madame Aldrich will give concert. Sept. 7.
, Supreme court holds frontage tax law to lie Volid. Chief Justice
Robertson writes opinion handed down yesterday in test case. ! ec Jan's
improvement bond issued under statutes to be legal. Tribunal is unan
imous in support of decision. . Result will be to eliminate all oposition
lo program of supervisors in matter of road development. .
Inter-Island company explains its raise in rates to public utilities
board. Rases increased taritf on rising cost of ocration. Passenger
and freight 'business both affected. While patronage has not fallen off
decidedly, navigation conditions' are abnormal.
Because of plague, people are barred from NipKn Maru. Asiatic
cholera in Japan leads to stringent rules for T. K. K. vessels. 262 cases
rejxirted in Nagasaki in past 10 days. Feared passengers arriving from
Orient today will be in rigid quarantine
PARIS, Aug. 25 Huge guns of France begin new offensive. Ar
tillerymen start work of leveling trenches of German sector more than
30 miles south of river Somme. French take Maurepas, and surround
Clery.
British force Teutons back from Thietval. Russians recapture city
of Mush.
HONOLULU, Aug. 25 Soldiers brave flames to save lives of
barbies. Stanley A. Cutter's cottage burns while family is away. Ear
ly morning blaze destroys $5000 worth of property and regular soldiers
v. ork like beavers to save things.
( WASHINGTON, Aug. 25 Shippers of nation are opposed to Wil
son's plan. Suggestion that railroads recoup themselves for additions
to their payrolls by increase of rates, meets serious check. Railroad
presidents are still undecided. Final action not yet decided upon, al
though select committee reports in favor of suggestion made by Presi
dent. CHIHUAHUA, Aug. 25 Japanese physician testifies that Villa
died of slow poison placed in his food. Says that for weeks dead gener
al was impersonated by Gen. Baca.
LONDON, Aug. 25 Captain of Deutschland reports that but little
of long passage was made under water.
TOKIO, Aug. 25 Tokio police issues orders that no fish are to be
sold in city.
, LONDON, Aug. 24 German merchant submarine Deutschland,
which sailed from Baltimore on August 2, arrived at her home port,
Bremen, according to a Reuter's dispasch today confirming previous re
port from Berlin.
BERLIN, Aug. 2-1 Bulgarian troops administered severe defeat
to allied forces which being lined up along Struma river, in Greek Mace
donia, Allies were forced to flee from field of combat leaving large num
ber of dead and wounded. Large quantities of supplies captured by
victors. Bulgarians also on successful offensive further west, attack
ing Serbians, and taking town of Ostrovo. Serbian counter attacks
repulsed. . .
PARIS, Aug. 21 After intense bombardment at Soyecourt, Ger
mans today made a serious hand grenade attack, but it was unavailing
and Germans were forced to fall back. Germans made determined
assault on French position between Fleury and Thiamont, which were
previously captured by French.
LONDON, Aug. 2-1 Germans attempting to recover lost ground
at Guillemont, repulsed with heavy losses.
PARIS, Aug. 2-1 Aged King Ludwig, of Bavaria, sustained severe
attack of apoplexy. Is 75 years old. Condition is grave.
WASHINGTON, Aug. 24 Railroads will yield but would raise
rates. Proposed method to avert strike now or later on. . Following
conference with president, committee announces its attitude. Urges a
lermanent board to handle future difficulties . Men seem favorably
disposed and situation takes a brighter turn.
TOKIO, Aug. 2-1 Wireless service to be established between Jap
an and Hawaii September 15.
HONOLULU, Aug. 24 Forbes says he will pay bills if not allow
ed. . Oahu aviation to be aided by big kite station. Army office and
weather bureau plan establishment of aerial research work. Big observ
atory would be Uncle SanVs finest. Chief Marvin of Washington, and
A. M. Ilamrick, local observer.interested.
Petition may stop Beretania street project. Attorney of Link Mc
Candless is circulating paper to again check work.
Hollinger wants Garden to send in his resignation. Objects to
deputy city attorney's holding office in utilities board.
HONOLULU, Aug. 24 General Evans plans to secure from the
war department for the Aero Club of Hawaii, 24 aeroplanes. Great
impetus given to new organization.
Movement started to bring national guard into closer touch with
the regular army.
Auditor insists that Forbes' messages are entirely private. Declares
he will not authorize payment of cable tolls until further satisfied. He
is backed by attorney-general. Messages in question said not to have
dealt with public business of Territory.
Judge Monsarrat flails social bridge evil. "Why not arrest club
men and women for gambling, as well as Chinese?", he asks.
War department orders Col. Lenihan to remain in Islands after he
had shipped his household effects to the coast. ,
PARIS, Aug. 24 Greeks stirred wrathfully at invasion of Bulgars.
Say they will resist should they reach Seres and Venizelos organizes
volunteers. Teutons and Allies still moving forward. RejKirts of
fighting in eastern theater conflicting, while British keep up drive against
Germans in bloody Thietval sector.
WASHINGTON, Aug. 24 Strike crisis increased by no move
ment by President. Heads of railroads ask Wilson to show them where
additional revenue is to come from to meet raise in pay demanded.
Congress may permit freight rate advance. Leaders of brotherhoods
admit that members are growing restless under delays in bringing negot
iations to a focus.
LONDON, Aug. 24 Britain planning to mobilize securities.Addit
ional financial measures under consideration .
(Continued on
Page Four.)
