"""FINANCIAL EDITION"
NIGHT
icimun
mmn?
I EXTRA
f VOL. H.-NO. 29 G
-b
k?
GERMANS HURL
VAIN ATTACK TO
WIN MAUREPA
IFleuiy Also, Objective
of Heavy Teuton
Assault
Wbles OBJECTIVE
OF FRENCH DRIVE
froffre Consolidates Lines
r'and Meets Expected At-
. tacks Successfully
JSLAVS RETAKE MUSH
War Moves on All Fronts
Outlined and Analyzed
1 Western front Attempts
by the Germans to recap
ture" Mnurepas, on the Somme front,
and Fleury, on the Verdun front,
have been repulsed by the French,
tho Paris War Office states. Infantry
is pressing eastward, just south of
Combles, to pocket the Germans in
much the same manner as the Brit
ish are closing in upon Thiepval.
2 Balkan' front Unconfirmed
reports from Rome say that
Germany has ordered the Bulgarians
to abandon their advance in Greek
territory and evacuate the sections
they have already occupied. Con
flicting reports as to the attitude of
Gr&k commanders in eastern Greek
Macedonia toward the Bulgarian- ad
vance continue to flock without a
confirmation. It is reported that
the Russians are concentrating on
the Rumanian frontier, preparing
for the invasion of Bulgaria
through Rumania.
o Eastern front Field Mar-
shal von Hindenburg has
taken the offensive in the Stokhod
sector, according to official advices
from Petrograd, but the attacks on
the Russian lines thero have been
checked at nil points.
4 Caucasus front The Rus
t slans have recaptured Mush
from the Turks. Dispatches from
Petrograd state that the advance of
tiff Russians in Armenia has been
resumed on the whole front and that
the Turks arc evacuating Bitlis.
PHILADELPHIA, JllIDAY, AUGUST 25, 191G.
Cortitianr, 1918, si tni Potto Lxrxjr Commxt.
"BILLY" AND "MA" HERE AGAIN
EDWARD BOLAND
HAD REVOLVER,
POLICE ASSERT
Victim of Park Tragedy
Went About Armed, De
clare Investigators
DOUBT AUTOIST TALE
Caliber of Weapon Similar to
Size of Wound in Slain
Man's Head
QUICK NEWS
"Billy" and Mrs. Sunday stopped over hero today on their way to
Asbury Park, N. J., where the former will conduct a short revival.
This is "Billy's" first trip here without a fur coat and it was agreed
he looked almost unfamiliar in summer clothes.
BIG VICE RAH) WRONG,
SAYS NEW GRAND JURY;
HIT MAYOR AND WILSON
PARIS, Aug. 26.
Attempts by the Germans to recapturo
Jfaurepas, on the Sommo front, and Fleury,
ea the Verdun front, have been repulsed
if the Wrench, the "War Ofllco stated today
Its communique.
jFrench troops In the repulse consolidated
thepoiltlons won In the advanco north and
northeast of Maurepns, In which the vil
lus Itself was captured, and repulsed a vio
lent German attack ncalnst Hill 121. south
l the village.
North of the Somme the Germans dl-
recttd a fierce bombardment ncalnst
Maurepas. Despite this rain of shells, the
French troops have prepared their new
JMltlons for the German counter-attacks
wklch they expect to follow.
After the cannonade the German Infantry
tolumn was sent forward ncalnst the
ench lines stretching south from Maure-
J", but was driven back in Bplte of the
termination with which the assault was
resd forward.
Waurepas lies Just west of the main
Ufhiray running from Combles to Peronne
n4 about half a mile east of the railway
r between the same two towns. It Is
out four and a half miles from Peronne
sad about a mile and a half from Combles).
,Eaa,t of the Meuse the Germans made a
fl against the French holding the ruined
e of Fleury. but the attack was com-
PMtly repulsed, the communique says.
"BERLIN. Aug. 26. The vlllace of
Xturtpas has been captured by the French,
a was officially admitted this afternoon.
J War Office, however, reported the re
Iw Of French storml'nc- attacks between
jMirepas and the Somme.
Motive Not Corrective, Arrests
Unnecessary, Avers Report.
August Probers Want
No Repetition
FOUND RESORTS OPEN
How August Grand Jury
Views Vice Problems
AUGUST Grand Jury strongly
condemns ' police for making
wholesale raid in Tenderloin July 15.
About 150 bills of indictment
grow out of raid. ""
Grand Jury charges that police
knew of existence of places for
months prior to raid.
Declares whole evil could have
been abated without a single arrest.
Report states ''To permit the
flagrant violation of the law for a
long time and to follow such a vio
lation with peremptory arrests is an
improper use of police power."
"BILLY" PAUSES HERE
ON HIS WAY TO FIGHT
VICE AT ASBURY PARK
Evangelist, Full of His Old-Tima
"Pep," Declares His Readiness
to Tackle "Scourges
of Sin"
'MA" ACCOMPANIES HIM
gERMAJJY ASSURES GREECE
BULGARIAN ADVANCE IS NOT
AN OFFENSIVE, BERLIN SAYS
BEBT.TW i.. or .- n... i in.
i '., AU, U. '4JIO UlgUrial ittlU-
liLtr tnat tno Bulgarian advance is not
tw offensive, but a counter-offensive, made
,5M?ry by continued attacks by the
fflj . Semiofficial Official News Agency
K?4 today,
Mrts from Sofia said It was not true
2J un Greek population was fleeing be
wtn Bulgarian -army. On the contrary
5nS Ratrt tha n.d.i. i. ............ h.iH
ggj"hr to the allied forces, received the
Swim soldiers as liberators.
iljONfiriw . .r .-. ,--
21 "" Bulgarians to discontinue their
ctW Greek territory, fearing Greece will
grwr into the war, according to an
r-MBiea wireless dispatch from ttome
Several rt ,- . . .. a -
11,1 " wR generals nave remaeu iu
r5? ,r8 to evacuate eastern Macedonia
JJHT9 the Bulgarian advance, the dispatch
Cwilomj on fin Two, Column Km
f'THE WEATHER
vemnnART
kFoT PhilnJ.ln,S -J ....- B'.V
fSTxina moderate temperatures to
E?? "n SaturdaU. with aentle. weat-
mnda.
Bfisif" " 531 Hooa rUe... 3a2.m.
-WABE KIVKB TIBB CttANOES,
CHESTNUT .STBEET
,wUr IM a ILsw tltr . 84! P.m.
h rar U J8m.lUUh watr lUSv.m.
JH&rOiAVV&K AT EACMJIOPB,
J$l 101 it i iir Tli a I ZT 6
iTT-'A - I l " '
LJ-II 7KI Hi i i.5T EcTtA
-IS1 jl I b3T
Ml
The August Grand Jury, reporting on vice
today, unmercifully Hayed Mayor Smith and
Director Wilson for ordering the big Ten
derloin raid on July 16.
Neither official was mentioned In the
presentment, but both have repeatedly
taken all responsibility for ordering the raid
and the onus of the Grand Jury's report
falls on them.
The report simply refers to the "respon
sible municipal authorities."
The Grand Jury saya without qualifica
tion that the raid -was not designed as a
corrective measure at all, though no effort
was made to learn what motive was behind
It so far as the presentment shows.
The ra'd was called harmful and con
demned In the most emphatla terms.
"There should be no repetition," the pre
sentment said.
The jurymen reported that the vice situa
tion could have been corrected without a
single arrest. The whole proceeding of the
raid was harmful.
Its Intentions and results are alike con
demned. "To many It has been an education In
vice," the jury's report says; young persons
who before the raid barely knew where the
Tenderloin was now know the addresses and
names of resorts, "and we understand," thei
jurymen say, "that for the benefit of these
young people the resorts have reopened."
The August Orand Jury satisfied Itself
that the municipal authorities highest up
knew of the resorts as they were before the
raid, and their report says these authorities
could have closed tnem an wjtnoui me
sensation they created.
The report says:
"There has come before us about 150
bills of indictment growing out of the
raid on July IB in the district known as
the Tenderloin, The facts before us re
lating thereto form the ground for our only
recommendation relative to enforcing the
present laws.
The facta are that a number of disorder
ly houses were entered by the police on the
night of Juy 15 and the proprietors and
inmates were placed under arrest They
were taken to the station houses and several
hundred were retained in them all night.
The next day most of them were released on
ball. Nearly ail Ol uiuaa wi.u wua luuitittu
as a result of the raid were women.
-CONDEMN MOST STRONGLY,'
Tfe condemn most strongly the action
of the municipal authorities in making this
wholesale raid.
"Direct eTldcnc U before- fci that the
police authorities "" "t tho exUtence
of ion of these retort for month be
fore the raid, and la the full dlicbarr
of their dalles bad reported so to their
uperlor officers,. It, dee not seem poitible
that U uiualclpal authorities could bare
Continued a race Two, Celeau Six
Billy Sunday, full of his old-tlma pep,
brcozed Into Philadelphia today, and nftcr
n short stay ot two hours, was whirled
away oceanward, eager to carry the fight
to the cabarets nnd liquor shops which have
been reported aa 'flourishing" in Asbury
Park almost within a stone's throw of
Ocean Groio, whero ho opens a 10-day
revival tonight.
"I have no definite Information as to tho
extent of theso scourges of Bin In Asbury
Park," tho evangelist said today. 'But you
can bet your bottom dollar that I'll tackle
them, lick and wallop them Just as hard as
In any other placo I've been. Meanwhile
I'm glad to sco the old faces, tho old
friends In Old Philly again."
Accompanied by "Ma" Sunday and Alba
B. Johnson, president of the Baldwin Loco
motive Works, with whom ho came from
New York, "Billy" arrived at Broad Street
Station at 11 o'clock. In record-breaking
time he was whirled nvvay in tho automo
bllo of Joseph M. Steele to the Bellevue
Stratford, where nearly 100 admirers. In
cluding many from Trenton, Patcrson and
Baltimore, pressed forward to give him a
Continued on Taro Two, Column Two I Schuylkill.
For seven months prior to tho tlmo ho
was Wiled In "Hairpin Turn" of Nelll drive,
1-airmount Park, Edward Koland, tho po
lice say, was known to havo carried n
rovolvcr. This was learned today. Ho was
known to havo gono nrmod nearly every
night up to two nights beforo his death
Tho police nro now trjlng to learn If lie
carried tho wenpon Tuesday night, when
ho was shot twlco In the back of the head.
Since tho shadow of police doubt fell
upon tho stories told by Boltnd's com
panions that tho young man wbi shot by
an automoblllnt whom tho crowd Inter
rupted whllo ho was hugging and kissing n
girl tho police havo benn examining tho
young men to learn whether or not thero
was a revolvor or pistol in their posses
sion. Another point that was brought out to
day Is that Boland wore tho sheet with
which tho crowd Intended to frighten Mar
tin Plnyard, tho employe of tho Philadel
phia Country Club, by nuking him think
ho had met with "a ghost" on tho golf
links.
Tho sheet, which tho pollco found hang
ing in a tree near vv hero tho dead man was
picked up by tho physician who was pass
ing tho Palls of Schuylkill bridge, bears,
witness to this. Down tho middle of It
thoro Is a thin red lino with occasional
fjplotches ot red. Boland woro the sheet
about his shoulders, his head visible above
Its whiteness. Ho was shot In the back of
the head and from the two wounds catno the
splotches and tho lino down tho middle of
tho sheet.
The rovolver which Boland was known
to havo carried was of ,32 caliber. The
wounds in his head were made by bullets
believed to bo of thin caliber. Tho fact of
this, however, if It Is a fact, will not be
mado public until tho Inquest. Tho Cor
oner's physician will not tell any one but
nis superiors Tho police, won't tell.
Somo ot the detectives wero taken oft
tho direct track today by an anonymous
letter received by Acting Captain Theodore
P. "Wood. Tho letter or nolo was written
on a. thin strip of paper. It asked that n
person In an office building near City Hall
be questioned about tho murder. Tho per
son was named, but tho pollco could not
find tho namo In tho city or telephone
directories They nro Investigating.
Tho police nro not taking tho noto seri
ously. They believe it was wrltton by a
crank In answer to a statement made by
Captain Wood that the police had no clues
not oven a letter from a crank. Ihev
expect to receive a few more.
The secret of tho murder, the police now
believe, Is held In tho minds of Boland's
bIx companions Coroner's Detective Frank
Paul holds this opinion. In tho report he
made to tho coroner's physician ho recited
the stories told by tho young men about
the motorist, nnd ended his report by
writing:
"You can believe all this, but I don't "
The police today denied that Boland was
stabbed. Tho marks on the body, which
were said to have boen discovered by
Boland's sisters, they say, are not stab
wounds lloland, they Insist, was shot.
He died from two gunBhot wounds In the
back ot tho head.
There were marks on his face, scratches
and bruises, which, they say, may have
been caused by his being dragged along
the road.
Funeral services for the murdered man
will bo held tomorrow morning In St.
Bridget's Human Catholic Church, In Falls
'
CLEVELAND. ... 12001312
ATHLETICS lsl G 2 0 0 0 0 1 2 2
Bagby aud O'NclI; Nttbora, Williams nud CTclnlcli.
ITALY EXPECTED TO DECLARE WAR ON GERMANY
dOl'liNHAQEN, Aug. 25. Herman papers express the belief that
Italy will formnlly declare war against (Jcrmany when the Italian
troops lauded at SalouKii lcuch thei fiihig lino on the Macedonian
front.
HOUSE CONCURS IN ARMY BILL AMENDMENT
WASHINGTON, Aug. 2D. The House this afternoon con
cuncd In the Senate amendment to tho army bill, and the measure
wns passed, containing a tevlsion of the aitleles of war, but without
the clause that caused President Wilson to veto it last "week. The
bill now goes back to the President for his signature. It carries an
unprecedented total of $045,470,840.51.
U-BOATS SINK ITALIAN SAILING SHIPS
LONflOK, Aug. 25. Lloyds rcpoit that the Italian sailing ships
Akrla. Brlssolaii, 152 tons, uf Viarcggio, and 'imiua, 13S torn, of
rrresaina, have been &uuk by submarines.
FIRE DAMAGES EAGLESMERE HOTEL
A fire believed to have, been st&rtcd by ctossed electric wires
badly damaged the Ilotel Eaglesmere at Eaglesmere, Pa., this nftcr
noon, causing a damag estimated nt ?1500. The hotel is couduoted
by Ernest von Ingham and is in the center of the town. When tho
fire started many of the. guests were iu their rooms, hut all escaped
wfely. Moat of tho guests were fiom this city, 2Tow York and Wash
ington. Tho firo was fought by tho volunteer company of Eaglea
rsere, aoEit'ted by guests of hotels and cottages.
BARGE TO CALL HERE
WITH CARGO DESTINED
FOR SUBMARINE LINER
Tug Timmins Will Tow Boat of
Nickel and Rubber to New
London to Meet
Bremen
ONE REPORT OF CAPTURE
INDIANS FIND NABORS
AND WILLIAMS IN WILD
FORM AND SCORE EASILY
Many Passes Enable Cleveland
to Pile Up Big Lead Bagby
Holds Macks
BIG BRITISH LOAN SOLD IN RECORD TIIME """
NEW YORK, Aug. 25. A new record in American flnanco was mado in Wall
Street today, when tho last of $260,000,000 British Government 5 per cent notes wero
sold after being on the market 48 hours. Tho syndicate which underwrote tho Issue
was formed to run until October 1 unless terminated earlier.
3500 GO ON STRIKE; TWO UP-STATE SILK MILLS SHUT
POTTSVILLE, Pa., Aug. 25. The Eagle Brothers Silk Mills at Shamokln and
Kulpmont nro Idle. Tho 3500 employes are on striko because tho company has
closed Its school of learning and reduced tho wages of employes. This Is one of
tho largest silk mill firms In the country.
FRENCH AND BRITISH ARRANGE BANKING AGREEMENT
LONDON, Aug, 25. At a conference In Calais yesterday representatives of the
British and French Governments concluded arrangements for payments abroad for
the maintenance of exchange between tho two countries, the Government Press
Bureau announced today. Among those present at the conference were Premier
Asqulth, of England; Premier Brland, of France; Chancellor Reginald McKenna,
of tho British Exchequer; Thomas McK. Wood, financial secretary of tho British
Treasury; M. Rlbot, French Minister of Finance, and M. Pallatn, governor of tho
Bank of France.
UMPIRE CONNOLLY HURT
NEW YORK. Aug. 25. The report that
the German submarine Bremen had been
captured by the British was repeated today
by the captain of a British merchant
steamer who arrived aboard the liner Bal
tic Tho sklppe said the Bemen was caught
in a steel net In the North Sea and swung
helpless for four dajrs until a British patrol
boat discovered her. Four of the sub
marine's crew died from the foul air, he
said, before the submersible was towed
Into Doyer,
BALTIMORE, Aug. 2.5. Virtually mak
ing certain that (he German submarine.
Bremen will not come to Baltimore, but will
go to New London, Conn., comes the news
that the tug Hansa, formerly the Timmins.
which played a leading part In the arrival
of the Deutschland In this port, will leave
here next Monday for Philadelphia, towing
a barge loaded with nickel and rubber.
The Hansa Is now In drydock at this
port, but will be ready Monday to start Its
trip. In the meantime the barge is being
loaded at the wharf of he Eastern For
warding Company, Locust Point, at which
the Deutschland lay while in pprt.
The Hansa Is tft take the barge In tow
Monday morning and go with it through
the Chesapeake and Delaware Canal to Phil
adelphia. Captain CullUoa will be In
charge, and as soon as It arrives In Phil
adelphia the barge will be taken in tow by
CeattausJ ea Fas Tw, Column g
By ROBERT W. MAXWELL
SHIBE PARK, Aug. 25. After Jack Na
bors put on a private parade of his own
today In the first inning, when he walked
four batters and forced In a run, Connie's
Maoklets came back strong in their half
of their inning and scored two runs, put
ting them in the lead. '
In the second inning Nabors kept the
good work up by giving Chapman free
transportation and Connie used the hook
on him. Marshall Williams then wjnt In
and twirled In his place.
Trls Speaker, who was hurt yesterday,
resumed his place in center field and Roth
took Moeller's place In the right garden.
FIRST INNING.
Graney walked. Turner walked. Speaker
filed to Strunk. Roth walked, filling the
bases. Wamby also walked, forcing In
Graney, Gandll hit into a double play, Witt
to Larry to Mclnnls. One run, no hits, no
errors.
Witt was hit by a pitched ball. Walsh
sacrificed, Bagby to Gandll. Strunk walked.
Roth could not reach Schang's Ily to right
and It went for a single, filling the bases.
Lajole filed to Wamby. Mclnnls singled to
center, scoring Witt and Strunk, Schang
going to third. Graney ran In and caught
Pick's liner off his shoe tops. Two runs,
two hits, no errors.
SECOND INNING.
Chapman walked. WllUams now pitch
ing for the Athletics. Witt knocked down
O'Neill's single and Chapman went to sec
ond Bagby sacrificed Williams to Mc
lnnls. Graney tripled to right, scoring
Chapman and O'Neill. Turner hit to Pick
and Graney was nut at the plate. Pick to
Continued on Van Two. Celama Xhre
CONGRESS MAY DECIDE TO ADJOURN NEXT FRIDAY
WASHINGTON, Aug. 25. Republican and Democratic leaders in Congress were
virtually agreed this afternoon on a Joint resolution to adjourn next Friday regard
less of the legislative situation. The resolution will be Introduced early next week.
MEXICAN-AMERICAN COMMISSION TO MEET SEPT. 4
MEXICO CITY, Ayff. 25. The Mexican members of the Mexican-American
Commission to discuss controversies between the two nations received final instruc
tions today from General Carranza and will leave for the United States tomorrow.
Special Agent Rodgers has notified Foreign Secretary Agullar that the first prelim
inary meeting of the joint commission will be held at the Hotel Blltmore, New York
city, September 4.
NIGHT
EXTRA
PEIOID ONJ3 GE2TT
TRAINMEN 'PAT
HEADS BALK IN
STRIKE PARLEY
Workers, Meeting Presi
dent, Refuse Further
Compromise
TRICKERY IS CHARGED
Labor Leader Gets Year's
Rest if Strike Is Averted
WASHINGTON, Aug. 25
OETTLEMENT of the railroad
labor dispute without n striko
means rest and health for one 'year
to A. B. Garretson, official leader
of tho brothcrhdods.
It came to light today that his
organization, tho conductors, had
voted him a year's leave of absence
with full pay in event of such nn
ending of the difficulty.
Gnrretson ia worn and aged. His
face is drawn and he walks like an
invalid. In the last few days, ho
has had to take to his bed to re
cover from utter exhaustion, but he
has nttended tho employes' meet
ings regularly.
WASHINGTON, Aug. 25. Tho
railway presidents and managers re
sumed their secret conference at 3
o'clock this afternoon. The presidents
gave out this statement:
"Tho executives arc understood to bo
studying the form of a communication
to the President."
WASHINGTON, Aug. 25. Tho rnllway
brotherhoods' representatives now In Wash
ington conferring with President Wilson
nnd tho president and managers of tho
various railroads of tho country In an effort
to provent a general striko will not recede
from their acceptance of President Wilson's
plan to end tho controversy. And under no
circumstances will they mako any further
concessions to tho railroads.
President Wilson was qo Informed by
tho grand ofllccra of tho brotherhoods at a
conference in the White House today, which
lasted for ono hour and twenty-five min
utes. While his cabinet: membcra "cooled
their heels" outsldo his study, the President
discussed tho entire situation with tho
brotherhood leaders, seeking to find
whether thero was not some other com
promise plan that could bo. agreed, .upon
which would force a speedy settlement.
STRIKE AS ALTERNATIVE.
The brotherhood men told the President
that they and their associates had accepted
the plan of tho eight-hour workday on a
ten-hour basis of pay In good faith, aban
doning all collateral questions, including
the demand for overtime, nnd that they
must now stand pat. If tho roads will
not yield, they said, there was nothing for
the men to do but order a general strike.
While tho brotherhood conferred with
tho President the managers and executives
of the railroads held their first secret con
ference in their headquarters at the Wlllard
Hotel.
The conference between the President
and the railway union chiefs was reported
to have been somewhat animated. All of
the brotherhood representatives united in
telling the President that tho railroads
had gone to "the most unfair" lengths to
"manufacture apparent sentiment through
out the country" against his proposed basis
of settlement.
In proof of this charge, Wf O. Lee, pres
ident of the Brotherhood of Trainmen,
filed with the President copies of a tele
gram from P. T. Sawdy, of Spokane, Wash.,
declaring that J, L. AJeroce, superintendent
of the Northern Pacific, had sent all agents'
of that road a message ordering them to "
have as many farmers, stock.raiscrs, dairy
men and merchants In their district wire
the President demanding that he Insist
that all of the questions now in dispute.
Including hours and wages, be Battled "by
arbitration, and that he abandon his own
proposal of settlement.
"MANUFACTURED" SENTIMENT.
The message read:
It is highly important to get traln-
Contlnoed an Ibjo Two, Column Tw
ENGINEER'S HEROISM
MAY COST HIS LIFE
JULY EXPORTS, $446,000,000, SET NEW MARK
WASHINGTON, Aug. 25. Exports during July totaled $06,000,000 a record
for July although the figures are J19.000.000 below tho June exports. Imports
were J183.000.000, a falling off of 163,000,000, compared with June, Exports for the
year ending with July totaled 11,511, 000,000, compared with 12,883,000,000 the pre
ceding year, the Bureau of Foreign and Domestla Commerce announced.
ARMED GERMAN TRAWLERS SEIZE DANISH SHIP
COPENHAGEN, Aug, 25. The Danish ship Sorsetl has been captured In the
North Sea by armed German trawlers.
DEFENDER OP GORIZIA DISGRACED BY AUSTRIA
BERNE, Switzerland, Aug. 25. A wireless dispatch from Austria saya that a
court martial at Klagenfurt has sentenced Genera) Kledel, In command at Gorlzla
when the city was captured by the Italians, to dismissal from tha army and loss
of his rank and pensions.
MORE THAN 100,000,000 CATERPILLARS KILLED IN WEEK
More than 100,000,000 caterplllarst were destroyed by school children during
"caterpillar week." according to Miss Caro Miller, supervlaer of echool garden.
The children disposed of 992,034 caterpillars, cocoons and egg-masses, and the egg
masses alone contained about 90,000,000 unhatched caterpillars, bringing the total
up to nearly 100.000.000. City Entomologist Herman Hornig, In a letter thanking
the children for their services, predicts that another year of such practical bmoa
straUon will Insure the city's trees against the ravages ef the tussock caterpillars.
Ardmore Ice Plant Employe
Unconscious at Post After Ex
plosion Two Others Injured
His desire to prevent an explosion of the
ammonia tanks at the plant of the Ardmore
Ice Company may cost George W. Gleason,
chief engineer, his life. He was found un.
conscious with his band on a valve con
nected with the ammonia tank Immediately
after an explosion ot a gasoline lamp Glea
son and two other workmen were terribly
burned.
The other Injured workmen are R. E.
Vail, of 1110 Jackson street. New York, and
Arnold Scherde, of 25t Willis avenue, New
York. All were taken to the Bryn Mawr
Hospital The clothing of the men was
burned entirely from their bodies.
Tho report was heard by Mrs Gleason
who found her husband unconscious and
hla clothing in flames. She carried him to
the street, extinguished the flames and sum
moned aW fqr the others.
All were hurried to tha hospital In the
automobile of J C. Newman,
Four days ago there was a break down
in the machinery of the plant The Aim
contracted with the De Lavergnet Company,
ot New York, to repair the damage and thu
latter concern sent Vail and Scherde hera
to do the work. The job was about finished
today when they lighted the gasoline Utfn
to pump air In an air tank. The lamp cox
overheated, causing the explosion,
Gleason has nine children. Ha lives at
tit Sibley anue, Ardmore.
