t FORECAST r
be
Generally fair to-day and to-morrow;
not much change of temperature.
Highest temperature yesterday, 77; lowest, 66.
Detailed weather, mall and marine reports on pas C.
IT SHINES FOR ALL
VOL. LXXXIII. NO. 360.
NEW YORK, FRIDAY, AUGUST 25, 1916. Copyright, 1916, by the fiunPrlsflsrf and PublltMng .Association,
ONE CENT
la Qmlcr Nw York,
Jersey City aad Newark. J
KlMwtlSf
TWO CENTS.
RAILROAD SPLIT
IS WIDENED ON
NEW PROPOSAL
Eight Hour Day, Arbitra
tion and Rate Increase
Is Scheme.
EASTERN LINES WANT
CONSERVATIVE TLAX
One Chance Is Seen for
Quick Settlement of
Dispute.
CONFERENCE FAILS,
MEETS AGAIN TO-DAY
Every Expedient Will Be
Tried, Hale Holden
Announces.
Washikotox, Aug. 24. Possibility
of the failure of the President's ef
forts to bring about an adjustment of
the railroad wage controversy and
avert the impending strike drew close
to-night
After a day of fruitless conferences
the adoption of a plan which would be
acceptable to the railroad heads ap
peared to be as far away as it ever has
been. The special committee of execu
tes conferred with the President and
later with their colleagues and the
board of railway managers, but the
mult of these deliberations has been
8(l!lble.
If anything, they have accentuated
the fact that belligerency among the
railroad executives has been growing,
that suggested compromises have been
thrown Into the discard and that- the
entlment for arbitration, backed up
ly the demands of shippers in all
tarts of the country. Is becoming more,
na more apparent.
Draalte Stand. Tcder,
ft Is predicted a definite decision will
be made by the railroad executives at
a meeting to be held at 11 o'clock to
morrow. Unless some solution is' ar
rived at over night the railway con
ference, according to the predictions to
night, will take tlielr stand on the
criflnal proposal of settlement made by
President Wilson.
There la apparently one chance left of
avoiding the strike crisis. After the full
conference of tne executives this after
noon the announcement was made "that
a new phase of the situation of some
Importanee was laid before the con
ference by the. special committee." 'The
ituation Is such that It may be settled
In twenty minutes or go over until next
week," one railroad president said.
Heads of the large Eastern roads ap
pear to be holding to the conKervatlvo
course and advlrlng a settlement of ono
kind or another. Ono that has been
troposed is that the railroads accept
the eight hour day, but leave to an
arbitration commission the settlement of
f and overtime and other collateral
problenls. There Is some doubt that this
will meet the approval of the. brother
loods. Tentative Plan Drarted.
..eJfailure of tno "Pedal committer
to find a solution acceptable to their
""'agues was apparent when they con.
wned this afternoon. During the day
been "omo l,0Pe ,hat a Plan
1 1 i nt w,,h ,heSe encral features
ic BHuriaciory:
I lrt. that the railroad a
hour dav
accept the eight
th?TL'.,.hat a''surance be given that
fr.uv? uM 1,0 "ri""cd an Increase In
ihH: '"V" to C0I"Per.sate them for the
addition expenditure.
k. ... .,hst M Permanent commission
trowi d lZ Irivc"trate all wages con
uSt . fs were ,rl!e "re threatened
t0 'y the facts before the public.
Committee Issues Statement.
Consultations In the conference wen!
riir, ,5hout. tl,e day- Kary In the
uli f '-"'nmlssloner William L. Chum- ,
wrs of the Federal Hoard of Mediation
is. ,ne ' resident called upon I
w representatives of the brotherhoods.
modi(w?mtT' ProP"'! a 'Kht
m.ia,l.on "f ,he President's plan (if
Iti.,. nt: " returned to the Whl'e
till ",tn conferred with the spe-
mI fommlt'ee of executives.
.Niortly afer Iloon ,ne threft meml)e
II.-. it tclal committee of executives.
!, ' "'"n. president of the Burling.
nSliJ m w'a. Pldent of the
fj'f""' nd Ohio, and Judge II. S.
chairman of the Union" I'acltlc.
re summoned to the White House by
for l " an1 conferred with him
or an hour or more. r
Mr c"nclul"'i of this conference
L. , , 5 ho h' " abandoned
-ope ami thit he would not admit failure
ir'erv lVy ""''""it had been trlednd
or7,i!,ort. made 10 avold reak7 A
rr.a .Wful vlew of tne "ttuatlon ap
ThVil "f,Prevall at the White House..
Mini 'nli " understood. Is of the
i 3 o clock In the afternoon the rail
n.r,iXfCU,.IveB an1 rnanatrere) held a
Jrobl.,LCOnfernce' For hree hours the
K J, wu,,,lce'. After adjourn
k. . . f,,kcn unt" to-morrow morn
i.t bv ,i"owln, 'ment was given
t by the railway executives :
Waur. ii 1.nvlV,,,on of ''resident Wilson
Danv? ',ls' oldn' Judge Lovett and
ifrZ: mfTi went t0 th White House
ft noon and held a short conference with
" President.
'""frence of the railroad execu
JL,' wa hel.l Ht 3 o'clock, and a new
j of tho situation of some Import-
u. .lT.'"'u UK ne conierence ity
a'11 committee.
' IMr considerable discussion without
CoaMnued on Thtnl ;.
MISS NORMA MACK, daughter
of Norman E. Mack of Buf
falo, who spiralled over the cata
ract of Niagara in an army aeroplane.
P A' " '41
t -
t - - y.. --Trnv-.s - vt(. stsj..
GIRL IN AEROPLANE
FLIES OVER NIAGARA
Miss Mack Sees Cataract as
Army Machine Spirals
Above the Brink.
Buffalo, Aug. 24. First of her sex
to spiral over Niagara Falls In an aero
pinne. Norma Mack, daughter of Nor
man I- Mack of Buffalo. Democratic
National Committeeman, to-day was a
passenger In a 100 horse-power army
plane piloted by Lieut. Ira A. Ilader.
Lieut. Itader dipped his machine over
the brink of the great cataract at
Hja-ed of nearly eighty miles an hour.
"It rides smoother than an automo
bile," remarked Miss Mack. "I'm going
to takf a course now. I wasn t a bit
nfrakl." she udded as rhe removed her
helmet and goggles and ran to her
father and mother, who saw her make
the aoent and descent. From the aero
dmme to the cataract and back Is thirty-nine
miles. Lieut. Itader drove the
distance In 22 minutes.
Miss Harriet Mack, nlxo u daughter of
Mr. nnl Mrs. Mack, was a passenger In
a machine driven by Major W. M. Camp
bell of the British army.
Miss Norma Mack and Lieut. Bader
encountered a stiff breeze on their trip
to tho falls, which became a heavy wind
on their return trip. She s.ild she felt
Vort of dlxxy" when the big plane be
gan to rplrat over the falle.
BRIDEGROOM IN RIVER
RESCUES A 'KERCHIEF
Passenger Lehps Off Berkshire
and Saves Bride's Engage
ment Ring in Knot.
Spectators watching the docking of
the Hudson Navigation Company's
steamboat Berkshire at Pier 32, North
Illver, yesterday were treated to a
thrilling rescue. They taw, Alfred De
Mott, n passenger, leap overboard and
save a sinking handkerchief.
Tho handkerchief belonged to his day
old bride, but what made It even more
valuable was the fact that knotted In
one end was a diamond engagement
ring. The ring had been too large for
her solitaire finger, so she had worn It
on her handkerchief.
Tho young woman, who was Miss Un
derwood of Albany, was married to De
Mott, a druggist of Montreal, on Wednes
day at Grace Church, Albany, and then
they tied from their friends for a honey
moon at Suffolk Downs, L. I.
Coming 'nto the slip yesterday Mrs.
De Mott waved her handkerchief so en
thusiastically at Hie crowd on the pier
that tho -piece of linen flew from her
hand. Mrs. De Mott gave a horrltled
gasp, but her husband heroically vaulted
over the rail and grabbed the handker
chief Just as It was going down for the
last time. Ills efforts to keep the hand
kerchief afloat exhausted him so much
that he had to bo towed ashoro by a
boatman.
SCHWAB TO MOVE A COLLEGE.
Will Spend 300,(MM Hecroiiplokr
HullillnKB That Hpoll Ills Vlerr.
LomcTTO, Pa., Aug. 21. To beautify
the surroundings of his new summer
mansion asM spacious park, Charles M.
Schwab gave a commission to-day to
Henry Ilornstobel, a New York archi
tect, to regroup the buildings of St.
Francis College here. The college build
ings overlook the steel man's grounds,
but tiecnuse of their disparity In size and
architecture' are cdnsldered by Mr.
Schwab to spoil the harmonious view of
the surrounding country.
The regrouping of the buildings will
entail nn outlay of between $400,000 and
1500,000. Mr, Schwab has agreed to
bear the expenses, as well as to aid the
college In further extending Its work.
He has spent over 11,000,000 on a pri
vate mad and other public Improve
ments. Collier Ilrctar to Halaetf,
Wasiiinuton, Aug. 24. The big naval
collier Hector, broken In two during a
recent hurricane off the South Carolina
coast, la to tie raised and reconstructed.
The Navy Department announces to
day that a contract for the work baa
been let.
GARDNER ASKS LIGHT
ON NAVAL CONDITION
Propounds Thirteen Questions'
to Secretary Daniels for
His Answer.
CITES TJNPREPABEDNESS
But One New Ship Commis
sioned of 44 Administra
tion Autlrorized.
West Sullivan, Me., Aug. 24. Rep
resentative dardner of Massachusetts to
night delivered a speech in which he pro
pounded to Secretary Daniels the ques
tions concerning the navy which he
promised to make public at this time.
Congressman Gardner's questions were
as follows:
"In your annual report submitted to
Congress December 1, 1914, you en
titled one of the subdivision 'Proof of
preparedness of the navy,' You said:
"The navy Is always ready; It lives
In a state of preparedness.' And further
you said: 'As far as the submarines
themselves are concerned It la believed
that ours are on a par with any In
the world.' At the time you submitted
that report were not the following facts
In the possession of the Navy Depart
ment? "Question 1. Was it not known to the
Department that every battleship then
In commission was eaulnped entirely
wlth torpedoes which Admiral Strauss, ; teers are hastening to Seres to aid the
chief of ordnance, had six weeks pre- heroic garrison or to Salonlca to volun
viously declared to be obsolete? jteer to tight with the Allies.
"Question 2. Had not the senior naval ' German and Bulgarian official state
adviser to the Secretary of the Navy. J menta claim that on the Struma front on
Admiral Flske, three weeks previously, August 21 the French were put literally
on November 9, 1914, submitted to you to, flight with heavy losses, and that the
an official letter with the subject title Serbs about Fiorina have been driven
"the navy's unpreparedness for war"? i back twenty-five miles In the last week.
"Question J. Were not the scores of A lteuter despatch from Athens explains
the target practice of the Atlantic bat- that these apparent gains may be due to
tleshlp fleet for 1914 in the possession
nf Hie N'.vv nnur!mn nt th ilm. nt
your report, and did not they show On the Struma front, which Is In the offensive and the llulgar counter offen
that our naval gunnery had degenerated (northeastern part of Greece and was not ! slve continue Important. Despatches
to an Inefficiency almost Incredible? Did fortified by the Allies, the Bulgars claim 1 from Athens tell of the arrival of a corps
not those scores show that out of twen- that the fight on August 21 was a rout I of Albanians at Salonlca to Join the ul-ty-one
battleships the proficiency at- fr British and French troops : that they lied army, probably already the most
talned in elementary target practice on 'rc driven across the river, leaving ' cosmopolitan of any recent war. Fight-
. . . . -..ii.-. . I tielilnd III '1 1 1 1-" .1 . .i . I X?am . 1. ..Ill ... I I . . K . 1 1 ..... I .. I.,in...ii tl.A 1 1 I . 1 .1 Ii i.
""" ."" ,
Battleships.
'.!'.'.'.'.'.!! t
Eicellent
Good
K.lr
Poor
Unsatisfactory (lowest rating)
3
"Question 4. Is It not a fact that three
weeks before your report to Congress
a'leglng the preparedness of tha navy
yo" wrote to Admiral P. T. Slstchsr,
commander In chief of the Atlantic fleet,
aa follows:
"'Information Is desred as to the
reasons for the unpreparedness of the
submarine flotilla for active service. J
Your recommenaation is acsireu ss io
tho course to be pursued In the .future
to prevent such unpreparedness'?
"I have noticed In some of your
speeches a comparison of tho number
of vessels of the navy In commission
when you became Secretary and the
number in commission at the present
time.
"Question S. Is it not true that of all
the forty-four naval vessels authorized
prior to this year by Congress during
President Wilson's Administration only
one has as yet been put In commission?
n,....i.,n c i. ii nw rii thai nn
August 1. 1916. not one single stroke of
work had vet been done on the dread-
noughts Tennessee and California, tho de-
stroyer Caldwell and the submarines O-I,
. ..
and u-2, although CouRress voted to
build these vessels over seventeen months tariff commission paragraph is not of
ago, on March 3, 1913? I any great Importance. Apparently It Is
"Question 7. Is It not true that you put In merely as a measure to attract
have on your hands thirty-flvo uncom- and mislead llepubllcans. In fart there
pleted submarines, of which one was an- has been a propaganda conducted
thorlzed by Congress In 180S, one In 190!t. throughout tho country in favor of a
Jive In 1912, four In 1913, eight In 1914 tarbf commission. This provision In the
and sixteen In 1915? j pending bill supplies a popular catch-
"Question 8. Is It not true that you 1 word which Is meaningless and InefTec
have made a contract with the Klectrio, tlve.
Boat Company allowing that concern! "Should the llepubllcans be restored to
three years In which to complete the power they doubtless will provide for a
building or tho seagoing submarine
Schley?
"Question 9. Is It not true that tho
super-dreadribughts Nevada and Okla-t
hnmn. u-hleh for the first time vou out'
li commission this spring, were author
ized over five years previously by Con
gress? "Question 10. Is It not a fact that elcht
veirs uiro sixteen American battleshlus
were innhlllied for a trln around the
world, whereas last winter only fifteen
American battleships (not counting tho
old Kentucky) could be mustered for, tariff, and, like a mule, has all the un-(
Admiral Fletcher's manoeuvres? lholy aspects of both ancestors and the
"Question 11. The official navy list of
August 1. 19t shows that there are'
nineteen battleship at present In full I
commission. Is It not true that three of I
them are operating with reduced comple-1
ments of officers and men? Is it not also
raging, you advised Congress to cut In
two the navy building programme recom
mended by the General Board of the
navy? And Is it not also true that vou
entirely cut out the General Board's
recommendation of 15,000,000 for air
ships? "Question 13. Is It not true that on July
30, 1915, the General Board of the navy
recommended to vouMiat the navy build
ing programme for this year should in
clude four battleships, four armored
cruisers, six scout cruisers, twenty-eight
destroyers and thirty-seven submarines?
And Is It not also true that you recom
mended to Congress to cut this pro
gramme down to two battleships, two
battle cruisers, three scout cruisers, fif
teen destroyers and thirty submarines?"
10 CENT SODA FOB BALTIMORE.
Drnaalsts Predict a lllse After San
itary Cup Order.
Baltimore. Aug. 21, Soda water Is
expected to jump In price by reason of
an order Issued by the State Board of
Health directing druggists to use nipcr
cups or containers that can be itrnne
dlately destroyed after use.
The druggists promptly protested they
were being discriminated against, so the
Health Board changed the order to read
that any person dispensing soft drinks
would have to use sanitary containers.
The druggists appear satisfied on this
point, but declare they will have to raise
the price for soda to 10 cents.
First HasTa to Greet II aches.
Laramie, Wyo., Aug, 24, A commit
tee of the first women voters 'of the
Unltsd States will attend tha reception
of Charles K. Hughes, who reaches hers
at 11 o'clock to-morrow for an hour'
stop, women voted Mr in 1171.
true that the destroyer flotillas are 'Ike- exaggeration to say that a large m. l"" -"u -"nai in two Dm action or tli.s Government with rci1""""'"1 l"B ral"OTI' economic mm
wise operating with reduced complements Jorlty of tho manufacturers who went houm, heading Into Buzzards Bay and spect lo Great Britain. But the Kccre- admlnlstr.'illvv tieaty with Haytl was
of ofllcers und men? i Into the munitions business have not 1 ,,,w,ar.'1 J!'"1 '. NrVk I ,ar-v ,f Sl'"" nu-t "1'Posltlon In thl ! signed to-dav by Serretarv Lansing and
"Question 12. Is It not n fact that on fared well: many have gone Into bank- l.'-nltiwiso just afler . oclock. Mm .our from other members, of the ! Minister Menus. The most' Important ad
tiMmiitr i mu uiiii c. i.-,ir..nenn nrue ruptcy : inanv more have made mi inoiiBv. tuen ran Into tne rK. Cabinet. They want whatever .lini,,. .mi, , ,,, n, i....... i. n, r
BULGARS DRIVE BACK BOTH
ALLIED WINGS IN BALKAN LINE
Berlin . Reports Steady Gains-Great Battle in Centre
Nears Greeks Said to Have Evacuated Seres After
Hours of Heavy Fire Teutons Advance on Struma.
London-, Aug. 24. Bulgar drives on
both flank's of the allied army In the
Balkans have been pushed still further
forward, with .considerable losses to 'the
Serbs and French, Berlin reports. On
the other hand the British and French
official statementi mention no such al
lied rout as the Bulgars claim. Both
aides agree that In the centre the real
battle has not yet begun.
The situation In Greece also is ob
scure. A despatch from Athens says
the Greek garrison at Seres, In north
eastern dreece, has evacuated Its posi
tion after being under a heavy Bulgar
fire for hours. The Greek War Office,
the despatch says, ordered the tropps to
retire.
Another cable message from Athens,
dated yesterday, says that tho Greek
troops at Seres, defying the orders to
retire, .were making a desperate resist
ance to the advancing Bulgars. Col.
inristououlos, the Greek commander, 'Is
determined to resist to the last man, this I
despatch says. Another despatch says
tbst all Oreek troops have been ordered
not to make any resistance to the Bul
gar advance.
Greece "H ashlar to Araas."
The whole Greek nation Is up In arms
against the Bulgar Invasion, the same
despatch says, and a popular clamor for
war against the Tetonlc allies Is being
raised. rom all parts of Greece volun-
ne "ci mat tnc Allies had only anail
detachments there.
7. . .. 'UIUS"
r.niauey, .ievory and Towlova 400 dead querors and tne Italians iu .wiona is
were counted. The Bulgars say thev I reported lo-nlgl.t after a long rest. F.vl-;
"!:!.Vd "? .luai,.ro 0!,d'?t,?Ji,i'
..H.taVne.Tss'-Z.r r",
TARIFF PLAN SNARE,
DECLARES PENROSE
No Importance in Revenue
Bill, rut. Iu to Mislead
Republicans.
Wasiiinoton, Aug. 24. Senators Pen-
rose and Sherman. Hcpubllcan. con-
sumed most of the time In to-day's de-j,
bate on the revenue bill. The Pennsyl-
anlan concluded a speech Irecnn veM.r.
day against the measure, attacking par-I
tlcularly tho proposed munitions and In-
herltance taxes. I
lie aiso criticised tne tanrr commission
n on created uy me mil, sajinc: "Tim
jM.ecu iiieuiiie inx increases as umair ami
inequuuuie anu usssueu tne Democratic
tariff,
"This present tariff law Is a mongrel."
he said. "It Is a mixture born of the
tariff for revenue and the competitive
virtues or none.-
Senator Penrose, assailing the proposed
,ax " manufactures of munitions, said :
"The Ux, I suppose, Is levied on mu -
nltloiis on the theory that enormous
Profits are being made. I think it is no
at all : some have made a fair profit, and,
oi course, a very rew nave made good
profits."
DEATH FOLLOWS ENCORE.
Alphonso Althoff .Stricken on Stave
of Brooklyn Theatre.
For a final encore Alphonso Althoff
nnd his wife, Bosc, known together on
the stago as "Tho Musical Contls." gavo
the audience of the Bedford Theatre.
Bedford avenue and Bergen street,
Brooklyn, "The Knd of a Perfect Hay."
With the applause of the audience stll1
ringing, the couple bowed themselves off
and Althoff staggered backward Into the
arms of a stage hand. When Dr. Wa
i.i inn ii emisr IIJIIil. urn nr. VV 1-
lerbury arrived from St. John's Hospital
ho was dead In 1,'h vvlfo's arms. He sue
climbed to a heart attack.
WOMAN KILLED BY MOTOR.
Chanffear
Charge
Held on
Homicide
-Victim Unldrntlflrd.
An unidentified woman of medium
height, nbout 30 yeurs old, and wearing
A brown suit nnd white canvas shoea,
was knocked down and Instantly killed
last night at Tenth nveuue and Forty
first street by a touring car owned by
Mrs. Frances A. Qulnn of the Chats
worth apartments, Seventy-second street
and illvcrslda Drive, and driven by
William 1). Huddleston of 13C West
Twenty-eighth street.
Coroner Healy ordered tha arrest of
the chauffeur on a chart of homicide
after a nolle expert said tha foot
Drama wsre out oi oroar,
larni cuiiiiiiiMHiiin wiiicn win iirniincn i',- - .inm ...,i... t.i , ... .i. .. .. , ,
LrL'.Caa"J '"l1; Ve.".Hul,.H '" he d,?ti.ll,m views have been I,, eclipse. Illslu creating heavy matulal to make in
n, u" "','"r":"r "u "'iu"ie Pro- ,V-V,-" "", . ;. " ,": ,, ,;,, ' .',, 1 ..tutements now cannot be taken as e-1 compi ns.it hi light Infantry."
tectlve rates based upon a thorough ex- oy her to port, i apt. r 'derl ck llir.sch , f ,jUVernment. but It
animation of tho difference In cost here'""" ' onl- l'asseuger aboard the tug. ri,ir,,i hei,. that Voi Tlr ltz still
und abroad." Nothing was beard from the Wlllchad up , f Jf , ,,, , eh trouble AMFRICANS Tfi DUN
Senator Sherman attacked the pro- I" "'''clock to-night, and the wireleis WTl i U KUN
WhltA lit lh Rtrunil Thor.tr vaifflrrlnv .
afternoon. Charles Calhoun, a mired rvXSTZ "fair 'an",
merchant. 60 years old of 321 Washing- nAVmiurt' Sf th. VnUrtBt.?.".
ton avenue, iiri.igeport, i,onn., collapsed Government. Tho Cotonne (la:
una uieu niioruy Hiierwkrti,
garlans claim they took eight machine
guns and other supplies.
South of Drama, near the western bor
der of Bulgaria, the Bulgars report much
progress. Here they have secured prac
tically all of the railroad east of tho
Struma to Constantinople and claim that
they dispersed a detachment of British
cavalry and a cyclist corps. Tho cyclists
destroyed two bridges over the Illver
Anglsto beforo retiring across It, Hern
the Bulgars now hold the town of
Drama, they announce. It had been re
ported Out the Bulgars had promised
the Greek Government they would not
occupy Drama, Seres nor Kavala. Be
sides they hold Knglstos and Dcmlr
hlssar. Claim Other Gains.
On the other end of the line, about
Oslrova Lake, where the Herbs are sta
tioned, the Bulgars report an advance
to Kostour and Kastorla. Knstorla Is
twenty-live miles southwest of Fiorina,
which the Kerbs held n week ago, and
whence they retired before the Bulgars.
On August 21 they claim they took
Mount Malka Nelie by storm from the
Herbs, with 200 prisoners andevcral
guns. The fighting continues.
Tho statement announces that gains
north of Lako Ostrov'o, which Is north of
Kastorla, have been consolidated and
that the Serbians were routed in fighting
In the Moglenltza Valley. The French
report, however, says that Bulgar at
tacks near Moglenltza were easily re
pulsed ami that west of there tho Herbs
are on the offensive and Have reoccuplcd
Hilt 1S0C, near Oslrova likc.
In the centre of the line, about Like
Dolran and the VarnVir Valley, up which
the real allied offensive Is expected, little
activity Is reported. The British state
ment reports artillery activity In prepa
ration for an advance. Tho Uulgars re
port repulsing French attacks smith and
west of Dolran Lake and taking come
prisoners.
Fluhtliia In Albania.
The polltlcnl a.ipects of the new allied
i-'" "f :
rf""" " """"'lHndoi.o..lmgtWall.,r.lesl.Ue.Ur-
BREMEN WELL ON
WAY, BOAT REPORTS
Berlin Hears From Submarine
That She Will Reach l S.
in Few Days.
London, Aug. 24. The German sub
marine Bremen, reported to ! proceed.
. ri.i,,, m-ites Is well on Its
! ' V. . ' " " .
'way. according to nn Lxchange rele
graph despatch from Copenhagen,
Alfred Ixihmann. head of the Ocean
Navigation Company which owns the
, ,, . , , , ,
.1 iratnan fi c (Art h Iia li.m rfii'Ml'ml n Itiiiii.i
'
sage from the sitiiuiarine, ami tti.it It
will arrive In America In a few days.
It Is said the owners of the Deutsch
land and the Bremen iccclved word
seven days ago of the progress lielng
made by the Deutschland on her return
voyage, and that It was not until they
had obtained this Information that they
nermltted the Bremen to detuirt
peiniuieu ine jiriinrii iu ueiiari.
.New IxiNIhin, Aug. -t. I lie tug Alert
i--""-'
i " "-"even i
" ." '"' ""
'Uiarlne Bremen, now dally expected.
The lllehad left Boston hapbor early
to-day. presumably for this port, for
. 1 -T . V . l' ,, 'll"'rs
night. Officials of the line asserted the
I1"" " J"" ", ""'" oocsing
I charges, and denied reports tint there
I J"1", ""' connection between the Wllle-
1 )VU' 8 movements and the arrival of the
Gerimin merchant sutimarlne Bremen.
The lllehad made the passage
"So special arrangements for docking
tho Wlllehad have been made In the
local harbor. A huge storage shed
erected on the State filer under n rush
order during the last fortnight for the
Kasteru Forwarding Company of llHlti
more is expected lo be the place along
fcido of which the steamer will bo tied up.
CAPT. KOENIG A HERO.
I'rnlsrd In Press anil Frted With
Ileutac lilnnil's Crew.
Hkuun, via tendon, Aug. 21. Many
buildings ar decked with Mags In cele
briitlon or tne refurn of the merchant
submarine Deutschland, Newsnaners
. rinuyll.llll .. .-
",1,"" ,ir,ni ,""lr,c
, cl.a, ll mar ne mAX"tMa throuh
1 mc(.' ?n ,"u '"IT.",!,
...e, ....it ...is nvn llta n IMH'II
'The American Government was. iimr.
oughly and correctly neutral. The
American flert saw strictly that tho
American boundaries
"lctert by the Kngllsh us well us the
rrencn. increased precautions were
taken afler an English cruiser h.i.i mr.
reptlously entered Chesapeake Bay at
night."
j From all parts of Germany, Austria-
Hungary, Bulgaria und Turkey mes
sages of congratulation are arriving for
Capt. Koenlg und the crew, Among the
messages received Is one' from the Hun
garian Lower Chnmber uddresscd to
tho German Helchstag,
According lo stories told here, the
Deutschland eluded at least eight allied
warships and a fleet of fishing boats
believed to have been In the service of
! the Allies when she Dsssed out of ihm
I Ylrtflnla capes on utrust 3.
Iff fit. Cwttt U n.rllii" I'.iiiiiviiii'j tirf ll" " .H-IIM-lll 111 nil- wriJIIilll Mil3 irimiHK lit" itllllj III llljfl I. iMlJMtMT.I Hit!
YON TIRPITZ URGES
A BREAK WITH U.S.
Admiral Would Renew Sub
marine Warfare at Risk
of Making a New Enemy.
31 ANY GERMANS BACK HIM
Wilson Failed to Force Eng
land to Modify Blockade,
Teutons Charge.
Washington, Aug. 24. Threats from
powerful German sources to renew sub
marine warfare against merchantmen
regardless of promises to the United
Htatei have been communloui.u to Sec
retary Lansing by Ambassador Gerard
at Berlin. The fact that this Govern
ment has not forced Great Britain to
modify .Iter blockade policy Is given ns
the reason. Tlfo news caused uneasi
ness here.
Kecrctnry Lansing admitted to-day
that ho had been Informed of a public
manifesto Issued by Grand Admiral von
Tirplts. retired, openly advocating defi
ance of the United States. The German
Admiral says that It would bo better for
the fatherland to have the United States
as an enemy than to relinquish tho ad
vantages of the submantiu warfare In
order to keep this country apparently
friendly but In reality hostile to all
German Interests and docile to every
British desire. Ho wants restrictions
removed at once from the German U
boats In order that the fight for exist
ence may bo curried to the limit.
The full text of the statement made
by Von 'llrpltz has apparently not been
permitted to bo cabled outside of Gcr-
liiiinl' I. lit fi l!i.r!iril lifiH Ifirnnmrufeil I
a summary of It in Ills diplomatic mall.
Tosctlier with it sire other Indication!
that the German people are demanding
iceumptlon of tho u.d U bout method.
.NotlilllK Hone by l". S. '
The fact Is emphasized that Ger
many's pledge to the United States to
dlscontlnuo tulimarlne warfare against
merchantmen was based on the under-
.ti.li.lltiL. 111... niM.iiiM wnill.l lie'.Ven,.h .M.llir 1,... !,..., .I,.....,e,l In n
:v,, , . . .,:,,. ,V, i..-. .i..
t,
aiu-es from Mr. Gerard tn tf Berlin
KoreUu ofllce that tho United Statrn
u mill I !iff vlrnrnimtt' nml I mm Ik 11 twin
protection of American rights with ic-
gard to the blockade.
H Is not known here whether Mr.
Gerard has hud any Instructions to
! make this promiso to Berlin. Secretary
I Lansing has firmly declined to consider
( the German submarine pledge ns a bar
gain of any sort. But apparently the
German Government now takei the po
rtion that Its pledge was only condi
tio mil ami may be withdrawn unless the
American Government battens to obtain
action from Great Britain.
Coupled with the German threats
are Instances of n stiffening of Ger
many's policy with regard to the United
State. The request of Mr. Gerard, for
example, to know tho ptiulshmint meted
out to the German submailuo com
mander who torpedoed tho Channel
packet Sussex was met with a blunt
refusal, Secretary l.unslng Indicates
that thN matter will b dropped.
Likewise tho request of lh- United
I stlll'M Government for fuels In conncc-
turn witn tne submarine attack on the
.
.American steamer uwego nas met with
tint refusal. Germany is not In lli
mood for further explanations, it Is
Intimated.
Will fiet Fall Manifesto.
It U':IK H:llil lit tli.t Mini.. ll.inrliiiAiil
,.,,.,.. lat Ambassador Gerard will be
asked to forward the Vou Tlrpllz
manifesto by cable, as thus far the
Department has only a summary of It.
... Vllll tii-,,1,. i- ii... i.i..r ..(
.. , . . ' :. '
m.iy ask that Impilry
(;(.r,nii Government cdneeriilng It of.
ficiui iittitudn toward the sim -olllclal
, m, ,,,. xhnMU nr,, mm. .
,,t,,ring against tho United States n
CVTtau (jerm.iu m-wstianers.
Secretary Lansing said that ho had
rKeil Great Britain again when the
jnt French-British reply o tho last
American note on mull selzuie. might
be forthcoming, but this was Im-peetlvo
of tw submarine threats. The position
of Secretary Lansing has been that lie
would not penult Germany to dictate
! nullc action will make tlm best cam
paign material on all occasions.
CALLS MILITIAMEN BACK.
LrhlKli Valley Trlls llmplojees on
Border to Get Illai'liHrgea,
back to work. All who refuse will be
taken from the payrolls on September 15.
A letter lias been forwarded to each em
ployee in part.ii follows:
"In view of the expressed willingness
of the War Department to release
guardsmen upon whom relatives depend
for support, and In view of (ho fact that
tho necessity for continued military ser
vice Is now very much less urgent, this
company feel that It has discharged Its
full duty to Ilia Government and to Its
emplovres on leavo of absence. Vou lire
requested, therefore, Immediately to
mulio application for relcaso from mili
tary duty. Fallum to make such appli
cation will bo accepted as preference for
military duty, and In such cases pay
ments by this company will not bo con
tinued beyond September 15, 1910."
PUNISH Q0R1TZ COMMANDER.
Anstrtan Conrt-niartlal Illaraleaes
Gen. Illrdel From Army,
IIkun, .Switzerland, via London, Aug.
2,"i (Filduy). A wireless despatch re
ceived from Austria suys Hint a court
martial sitting at Klagenfurt has sen
tenced Gen. Illedel, who wus Iu command
at Gorltz when the city was captured
by the Italians, to dtamlsial from the
army and loss of his rank and pension.
,. ,, .. ,, ,, , , ., po men ny tne rres dent or llaytl. it Is
i i'. ii'ii- " i!' ,n",oaa IlllK Ttl' thought that tills force will preserve
fled all ts em iloj ces w ho are members ,,oe ,,- , j.mmm.ouo Inhiblta. t.
of he I edeni Ued militia on (ho b irder , Thl. Americans will be replaced as fast
that lhey will be expected to Immediately ,IK ,,0.sSll.1.. by native otlleers nppolnted
apply for relief from duty and report i ,fi, . ,.,!,,i.,, i
A DMIRAL VON TIRPITZ, for
mer head of tho German
navy, who would renew subma
rine war on merchantmen.
I'linto copyright
As.orlutlon.
by American Press
BEARDLESS ARMY
ORDERED BY FRANCE
.(,;,. ... fi,,,.,,. Twniln nml Unc.
til nd Is Driven to Mourn
iu Vere.
I'aUIS, AUii. 21, The beard of the
I
orJcr " 1,1011 ,llr,cts ,,Mt ,1,c mf"
fru,,t mut h!"lvn M "xi:e"t
muslacl.es. TI.c order haa been the
signal for the outburst of a humorous
md lionlc discussion In the trench news-
j I'apers,
to which some of tho most
famous French artltls, phllosophcru and
literary men have contributed.
Jean ltlchepln, the dramatist, writing
In the Fuse says: "The beard has gone,
but what Is the difference to us? In
place of It It Ii courage that grows. Let
the beard fall and French courage
grow."
Ldmond Bnstand celebrate the beard
ill verso us a symbol of ".ill the beauty
of all of France, a soul, a Jewel, a torch,
a prod."
llenrl ltergon says: "I nm not
afraid to go so far us to my that the
visage Is mutter while the beard is
mind."
Auguste Hodin, the famous sculptor.
sas: ".Men without beards., women
without sex, statuea without lieuds,
bodies without arms, humanity with
out weakness, that Is my opinion."
M.iurlei" Barren gravely regrets the
beard which he says was "A heritage
of long orii In which the de.nl lived
again und whleh bound us msterlously
to the soli." He adds: "It was part
of tpe war and nf our courage."
llmri H.itullle mourns the beard as
"A nest of smivtiilis, dear and tender,
somewhat timid and a lit t lo shivery."
Gen. Pleno Cherfllf, le.t'utilng tech
nically, exciiis the ineasuie because
the beard of ,i trooper weighs on an
.uer-iue s'xtv grammes. With 2,000,
000 men at the flont tills brings the
I aggregate weight lo 120 Ions. It was
,. ,i,.r... n, ,t n, irr ni,i n,i..i. ..t
: ,, ... .7
Protocol lo Trcnty Taking
Over I'iiiiiiifiiil Hulo Sijrnetl
by (iovcrniHi'iits.
Wasiiinuton. Aug. 21. A protocol
tho native police forcn Is to bo otllcered
by Anieilcnns. The chief purpose Is lo
provide fur Internal peace und make
possible withdrawal of the marines.
The natlvii constabulary will consist
of 2,100 enlisted men, with probably 300
American otlleers, nominated by the
President of th I Filled State and up
Administration of the telephone nnd
telegraph systems have been placed n
the hands of Lieut. P.dgur G. Ohcrlln of
the navy.
The treaty provides for an American
receiver-general for customs receipts, an
Ameiiean financial adviser and un
American engineer for sanitation and
general Improvements. It prohibits uny
increase of debt or saio of territory. A
protocol Ik to be drawn up to settlo all
foreign debts by arbitration.
The navy hospital ship Solace, In Huy.
tlau waters, has been ordered to take
aboard all tho American bluejackets
ami marines who have been 111 and bring
them home. The health of the men gen
ernlly has been excellent, Only "5 or
loo Invalids will bo brought north on
tho Solace,
AUSTRIAN CABINET'S ORDEAL
Hold
C'uunrll Which
Lasts
Eleven Hoars.
Amsterpam, via Iondoii, Aug. 25, A
Vienna dispatch says the Austrian
Cabinet Council was In session from 10
o'clock yesterday morning until 9 o'clock
In the evening.
The Premier, Count Karl Sruergkh,
presided und all of the minister were
present. '.
be made of the UIVTI Dif IT rnyr
niui rtULc rvntc
ALLIES SWEEP
GERMANS BACK
ON THE SOMME
French Clear Out Maurcpas
Trenches; 200 Yard Ad
vance Along 2 Miles.
BRITISH DRIVE ON '
SOUTH OF THIEPVAL
Night Attack Wins Big
Segment of Line Kaiser
Desperately Held.
BIG GAIN IN MOVE
TOWARD COMBLES
200 Prisoners Taken in Bay
onet Charge Fighting
Intense.
1'aws, Aug. 24. British and French
danhed forward In the dusk of thki
evening and gained auccesscs at two
pointa in tho Sommo battlo lino. The
Trench cleared out tho outskirts of
Maurcpas ami advanced their line 200
yards beyond it for n distance of two
miles. Tho British made another ud
vnnco und took a trench south of
Thlepval and 300 yards nearer the
town.
Tho Germans nbout Maurcpas had
been established In trenches udjolnlng
the outskirts of tho village, whenco
they prevented tlm French consolidat
ing their gains. Tho French biyonct
churgo to-night, however, took 200 of
them prisoner, captured a dozen ma
chine guns und established un udvun
tageouB line from beyond tho railroad
north of the village to Hill 121 on tho
southeast.
Tho French final cementlnc of tha
Maurepns position, where they havw
been Ilghtiug for eoveral days, la an
other and un important Htep in tho
slow advance upon C'ombles. Tho
British already tiro In tho outskirts nf
i.umcny, to tho north, and with
.MmirenuM. to tho .niitli. mn.iir.i
In
French hands, Comhic is seriously
mrrcueneu. liuiiiemont, almost di
rectly west of Combles, Ls practically
surrounded.
British Take 40(1 Van! Trench.
Tho British atlnck this evening took
n segment of German trench 100 yard
long south of Thlepval, nil advanco of
300 yaids. This Is In one of tho mobV
strongly fortified sections of the Somni'i
front, where the Germans had long
withstood all kinds of attacks by anil
lery and infantry. The British for the
last few days have been systematically
blasting out and then hacking out tho
Germans from u trench peninsula that
ha. harassed their flank here.
What looks Ilkn an Indira Hon that tlm
French plan to extend gleallv tho front
on which they uto attai king Iu tlm
Somnie I the heavy aitlllery tire they
have directed against the German line
from Kstrec.i, tlm southern extremity
of the present Somme front, to Lashlgny,
thlrtv miles.
The correspondent of I.n Liberie Fays
that heavy cannonading Is In progMs.
along n line from Vermitndoviller
thiougrT Llhons, Chaiilnes and Iloye to
I.asslgny. Tho destructive tire of tho
Fiench artillery has drawn tho German
airmen across the French Hues, contrary
to their custom. They are apparently
tiylng to reconnoitre the position of tha
Allied artillery.
Germans Itouted In Air
"Captlvo German balloons as.iln have
appeared In the ulr," says the corre
spondent, "hut were quickly withdrawn
when attacked by the French airmen.
Scouting machines sent out by the Ger
mans were driven back after numerous
ulr battles. The artillery action In tho
last thirty-six hours over the entire
Somnie front readied nn extraordinary
Intensity, The German clllis leidlell
vigorously nnd somo of tlielr batteries
were silenced."
llotli British, and French repulsed
several Geiin.iu rouuter uttacks during
the day before making the gain of this
evening. The French beat back two
German attacks south of Soyecourt,
which I the very extremity of tho
Homme line at present.
The first attack was made with
grenades, and was stopped a short dis
tance from the Frenih trendies. Tho
second attack never got really started
at all, for tho French T.Vs stopped tho
Germans as soon n they nprenrrd on
the crest of their own trenches.
Verdnn Attacks Itepnl.ert,
In the Verdun section the German
made efforts t take back tile giouud be
yond Floury and between Floury and
Thlauniont work that ha been taken
fioin them, but without avail. The at
tacks were preceded by itrong artillery
preparation.
The British had somo hot fighting for
a time In their trenches about Gulllo
mont station with a Gorman wave that
penetrnted there. For a time ihero wa
hand grenade and bayonet lighting In tlm
first lino trench itself, but the British
artillery fire shut off Gentian roenforee
ments, und the British either killed, cap
tured or put to flight all the Germans
who bad reached the parapet of tho
trench.
FIGHT IN SHELL PITS.
Germans SnrTrr Terrible I.ossra
Inrr I.osIiik Fort.
Sptciat Cable Drtialc!i to Tiir. Six,
Botftrpam, via Ixjiiilon. Aug, 2,",
Carl Wegiicr, In the Knlnlschf eifuii;;,
describing the horrors to which the Ger
man troops are nubjeotcd on Iho Homme
front by the British and French aitll
lery fire, says that tho Germans, hav
ing been forced by the llrst sweep of tho
Homnit offensive to give up their sirdla
of strongly built forts, aro now buldlnsj
