' "* ^ - V
IsSfesll TTfTw > tlfttiY ^fjYIP }g~',^r.?" I
-ag.w"1* Cz> J /^Xlvl lil IU 25A,%U'^ ,_.?,., ?? :;:... :; ~7
CLOSING NEW YORK STOCKS PAGE 13. ^ S L/ >?' ' D"M? *""? TW??; ? ? ?. M.570.
No. 29,421. 7 WASHINGTON, D. C., FRIDAY, AUGUST 25, 1916-SIXTEEN PAGES. ONE CENT.
GERMANS ADMIT
LOSS OF MAUREPAS;
ALLJESPRESS ON <
French and British Forces
Now Within Two Miles of
r'nmlilAA I
VUIIIUICO.
TEUTON FORCES DELIVER
HEAVY COUNTER ATTACK J
Repnlsed With Large Losses, According
to Paris Commnnication.
J,
F
BRITISH SCORE ADVANCES i
1
Capture German Positions in Region r
of Delvllle Wood and to C
the South of 3
Thiepval. e
t
LOJNUUN, August 25, 4:42
p.m.?Official announcement was a
made today that after hard fight- t
ing on the Somme front the Brit- *
ish lines had been advanced sev- a
eral hundred yards in the region G
near Delville wood. f
The capture of Maurepas, on a
the Somme front, by the French ^
is recorded in the official an- ?
nouncement of today from Berlin.
The complete occupation of
Maurepas brings the French and 4
the English advanced lines on the 1
Somme within two miles of g
Combles, the advance on which is E
greatly aided by this forward t<
movement. Maurepas formed one ?
of the principal supporting points ?
between the Somme and the high- ^
way from Albert to Bapaume, and
also was an important strategic rr
base by reason of its situation on ?
a plateau dominating the region h
toward the south. J5
Prince In Command. 11
The Germans have placed on the line
against the French between Hardecourt
and Gar the fifth division of Bavarian U
r near ma aad the first division of the Prns- ?
a lan Guards. This guard division is com- h
manded in person by Prince Eltel Frederick,
second son of the German emperor. '
and took part in the fighting at Maurepaa. C
GnlUsmont. where the English have ?
moo* progress, is Doing aeienaea Dy tne n
Kaiser Wilhelm II Regiment of Wuertternberg.
a
The French gains on the Sorame front jj
in the vicinity of Maurep&s yesterday a
were followed by & heavy German counter j
attack last night. The French official re- c
port issued today says the Germans were e
repulsed with heavy loss. The German J
assault was delivered against Hill 121 \
near Maurepas. r
On the Verdun front the Germans fo
attacked Fleury in the night, out were
unsuccessful. . y
British Seize Trench.
x British troops advanced 300 yards
yesterday south of Thiepval, capturing
a German trench 700 yards in length
and many prisoners. 11
The following dispatch received from ?
a correspondent with the British armies r
In France, written last night, says: r
"There has been murderous work on 3
both flanks in the Somme region, where,
with every stage of the British progress,
the fighting seems to become
more bitter and the artillery Are hotter.
On the left the Germans hold to
Thiepval and on the right still cling
to Guillemont, which, of all the ruined
villages, now is most completely pestlemixed
by shell fire.
"The repulse last night of a German
attempt to drive the British out of the
edge of Guillemont and the neighboring
stone quarry was one of the most
' sanguine since the war began.
'Tonight the British have been
making further progress east of Delvllle
wood and further tightening the
pincers on Glnchy and Guillemont.
German Guns Silenced.
This afternoon they pressed forward
another lap toward Thiepval, and observers
witnessed another artillery curtain
of fire which utterly silenced the
German machine guns as the British
charge picked its way among shell era
ier? lor yarns up a niusiae, entered ! :
the German trench and sent back the !
k usual bunches of German prisoners.
"All was seen clearly as if on a stage 1
and viewed from a gallery, even to the 1
detail of men standing on the edge of
the trench and throwing bombs as they
might toss biscuits into a basket. Clearing
out the snipers, plodding ahead
* with their supply of bombs and carrying
their light machine guns, that persistent
line of infantry, under the cover
of the continuous blasts from their own
guns and in the midst of bursting shells
of the enemy, never faltering, reached
the \ery top of the ridge at one point
for a front of 1.000 yards.
In 500 Yards of Thiepv&l. 1
"They were within only 500 yards of
the pulverized remains of* what once
was the village of Thiepval. which has
become the most redoubtable of names
to hundreds of thousands of men.
"Meanwhile the British kept on send
ing fifteen-inch shells into the Thiepval
area and into the German dugouts,
which lie deep under the wreckage of
houses. Spouts of smoke and dust rose
to the height of 200 feet, and what
looked like the bodies of men or sections
of timbers were tossed about."
French Bombard Heavily.
The French are violently bombarding
the German lines from Eatress, which
marks the southern extremity of their
present offensive, to l^asslgny. a distance
of about thirty miles, according
to the war correspondent of La Liberte
of Paris.
The correspondent says that heavy
(Continued on Second Pace.)
i
PEACE CONDITIONS
AGAINDISCUSSED
Independent Committee of
Germany Asserts War
Must Be Won.
ENGLAND PRONOUNCED
MOST DANGEROUS FOE
lilies Declared to Be Violating
Every Principle of International
Law.
?
BERLIN, August 25.?A procamation
containing views on the
>eace conditions which might be
mposed by Germany is pubished
by "the independent comnittee
for a German peace," an
irganization formed some time
igo by those considered to be the
:xtreme war advocates in Gernany.
The proclamation asserts that, despite
he fact that the Germans and their
llles are holding: three kingdoms In
heir hands, the entente still talks of
he destruction of the German empire
nd entente statesmen continue to lnulge
In a flood of abuse and lies about
lermany, while themselves violating
very principle of International law.
orcing neutrals to enter the war
gainst their better judgment and eneavoring
to force Into submission
hrougrh hunger millions whom their
words could not vanquish.
England Worst Enemy.
"Our enemies will not succeed/* conInues
the proclamation. "One thing:
hey have accomplished is to force upon
s the realisation that England is our
pedal and most dangrerous enemy.
England causes our enemies to stick
hgether. England leads them. Upon
England they depend and will depend
lore after the war. On the wreckage
f our empire England hopes to unfurl
he banner of Anglo-Saxon world dolinion."
The document asserts that Russian
writory from the Baltic to Volhynia
lust in the future be included in the
lerman sphere, to serve as a bulwark
gainst the Russian tendency to anniilate
Germany. France's revenge ideas
lust constantly be kept in mind, so
hat in the west also changes would be
ecessary.
Attitude Toward Belgium.
Belgium in the future, adds the procimation,
either will be a German or an
English bulwark, so "real guarantees"
ere also are needed.
The document then cites the exprealon
of Dr. Peter Spahn, leader of the
l&thollc center party In the reichstag,
hat "Belgium must lie in German
ands militarily, economically and poitically."
>
The proclamation concludes with the
ssertion:
"England's plan threatens us with poItical
and economical helotry. It aims
t our life as a people and as a state,
t aims at our culture and Institutions.
Energy must be applied, regardless of
onsequences, to force peace upon this
nemy. Let it not come true that, as
England says, we will win all the batles,
but England will win the war.
Vith von Hlndenburg, let us say it is
iot only a question of sticking it out,
ut of winning."
WAR NOT NEAR AN END,
SAYS LONDON EXPERT
LONDON, August 25.?The Times'
illitary expert in an optimistic review
f the military situation points out his
easons for believing that the war is
lot near Its end, and discusses the
rming of the allied armies ror 1917
.nd 1918.
"Our superiority in the field," says
he writer, "is not yet adequate since
t does not give us that annihilating
ireponderance necessary for victory,
cext spring, having completed our own
upplles, we can set to work to arm
tusnia with a will. We can fit out the
irmies for 1917 and 1918, which must
n the end crush the most frantic efforts
f the central powers, and as we can
ELst so long or longer, if necessary,
re can be satisfied with nothing but
he complete satisfaction of our
lemands.
"The allies will end the war as such
ormidable military powers and so
uperabundantly supplied with vetrans
and material that, failing some
jross negligence on the part of our
governments during the peace parleys,
Jermany will never be able to face
i war again in our time.
"Many soldiers flsmly believe the pollicians
will sell out in the end. But
his opinion is certainly wrong, for
he force of public opinion behind the I
var is now so strong that the public
vould think nothing of taking all the
nembers of the government and hangng
them in a row if they showed any
nclination to throw away at the peace
>arleys the fruits of our stupendous
var efforts."
n * ! A- *?
i^ongTcss raecuon iur mexico.
MEXICO CITY. August 25?The de- |
>artment of the Interior is formulating
l decree calling congressional elections, j
[t robably will not be issued until all 1
returns are in from the municipal elec:ions,
to be held September 3. Those
sleeted under this decree will organize
i. constitutional assembly to consider
reforms in the constitution.
t
DAY IN CONGEESS.
i :
SfMtei
' Met at 11 a.m.
Resumed debate on revenue bill,
1 Senator Gallinger'assailing republi- j
cans who fought former Speaker
Cannon and the late Senator Ald!
rich.
i Senator Hitchcock proposed a
; tax on news print paper sold for
j more than $45 a ton.
! Foreign relations committee reported
migratory bird protection
I treaty with Great Britain, but
failed to act on treaty for purchase
of Danish West Indies.
House:
Met at 11 a.m.
Began discussion of Senate
amendments to government shipping
bill.
LOCAL TAX BURDEN
IS HEAVY ENOUGH
Even if Full County and State
Taxes in Other Cities Enter
Unfairly in the Calculation, j
NO EQUITABLE INCREASE
OF AGGREGATE BURDEN
Either by Eepeal of Half-and-Half
Law or by Proposed New Tax on
Intangible Personalty.
(Editorial Correspondence of The Star.)
BY THEODORE W. NOTES.
Some who concede that Washington's
city tax burden is heavier than those
of most comparable American cities
contend that to make th?comparison
fair county and state taxes of other
cities should enter Into the calculation.
They maintain that in a comparison
of city taxes alone Washington's
whole burden is compared with
only a part burden in other cities. And
they argue that Washington ought not
to say that its aggregate tax is already
sufficiently heavy and cannot equitably
be increased by a tax on intangibles,
if county and state taxes, which Washington
does not pay and other cities
do, are omitted from the calculation.
In previous editorial correspondence
concerning the proposed tax on intangibles
I compared Washington with
other cities only in respect to munici-.
pal tax burdens, which they all bear
in common, though in different proportions,
such as realty, personalty
and business taxes. The city tax burdens
include in the census bulletin comparisons
county taxes in all cities over
300,000 In population, eighteen cities
including Washington, but of course
CAV.1 uuc ait oiaic laAca Hum wuuiueration.
The joint congressional committee
compared only city taxes in
reaching its conclusions, and Washington
believes with the joint committee
and the census authorities that state
taxes do not fairly enter into the calculation.
Our argument against the inclusion
in the W&shingtonian's equitable tax
burden of state taxes when he does not
enjoy state benefits and privileges is
summarized in editorial correspondence *
in The Star of August 12, and is printed
in the Report of Hearings Before the
Joint Committee at pages 1041-43.
Waiving for the moment this issue
concerning state taxes, I wish to supplement
what I have previously said
concerning the sufficiency of Washington's
total tax burden by the statement
that Washington's per capita
municipal receipts from all taxes so
exceed the corresponding per capitas
of most other comparable cities that
to the latter may be added county
taxes, equitable proportions of state
and county taxes, or even full state
and county taxes without overturning
the contention that Washington's aggregate
tax burden is already heavy
enough and cannot equitably be Increased.
Our Tax Burden Heavy Enough
Even If State Tax Included.
The figures printed In The Star's edltorial
correspondence of August 12 and
August 21 show that Washington's aggregate
city tax burden is larger than
those of most comparable American
cities. The same showing practically
is made if county and state taxes are .
taken into the calculation. The following
table shows in respect to the eleven
typical American cities already compared
the respective per capitas of tax
burden when to total per capita municipal
receipts there are added (1) per
capita receipts from all county taxes,
(2) equitable proportions of per capita
county and state taxes and (3) per
capita receipts from ALL county and
state taxes. The census bulletin includes
county taxes in city tax figures
in all cities over 300,000 in population.
Of the eleven cities in the following table
only two therefore show an increased
per capita burden over the city tax
when the county tax is added. Statistician
Beales of the census office has
calculated the equitable proportion of
state taxes to be added to the citycounty
tax burden (see report of hearings
before joint committee, beginning
at page 189), and this showing is made
in column 2. In column 3, in defiance
of every equity, the total state tax is
added to the total city-county tax. thus
unfairly comparing Washington's city
tax alone with the combined citycounty-state
tax of every other city.
- B E
* ? * 9 ?
g * S* *" M ?
E S 55 a
a IS .r ? s
?. h h II
fs "S -I - s
CIO. Is 3- a8 33 t
~ e. 2? = c
a sf 2? t
- a. 3 -ra 3 1
&i it s't iz i
-| .= .ss .= ;
Ss = o 5.S = a 1
b m ??^ 6-^ r
Chirac. 22.46 22.46 23.62 24.58 J
Philadelphia .. 15.18 15.18 16.87 18.57 *
Cleveland 17.41) 17.49 18.79 19.91 ?
Baltimore 17.15 17.15 18.85 20.56 '
Milwaukee .... 19.21 19.21 21.06 23.04 r
Newark 14.(W 14.66 18.62 19.Til j
New Orleans.... 17.30 17.30 19.40 20.31 j
Washington .... 20.02 20.02 20.02 20.02 J
Minneapolis .... 18.90 18.90 20.92 23.23 t
Indi&napoliR .... 10.73 19.29 f
Luuiartlle 16.87 19,o2 19.21 22.28
Comparison with N
Washington of f
the number of '
dtira with per <
capita more or 1 more. 1 more. 3 more, fl more. |
lesg 9 less. 9 leaa. 7 le?*. 4 leaa. ! ^
This table shown that Washington's ' <
total <*lty tax burden exeeedn that of >
nine of these ten typical American '
cities; that If the total county tax Is | i
added to these other cltlen the flgurfs J '
?f relative tax burden are unchanged; ; 1
that If equitable proportions of ntate J 1
and county taxes are added, seven of 1
the ten cities still remain behind Washington
In tax burden, and that If, un- ' |
fairly, the total state and county taxes i *
are added the burdens of six cities ex- ! <
ceed Washington's and four still fall i i
| below It. Even in this last table the | ]
k-P4l?ii? are close toirether. Thp i I
higheMt la 24.5N and the low eat la 1KJ57. j
Waahlngton'a la 20.02. If only the "yrn- :
eral government" Item of atate expend- j
Iturea la aubtraeted (aa It unqueattonably
ahould. ainee the Dlatrlct haa no
atate government or atate privileged or
beneflta) the eltlea are evenly divided,
Ave exceed In* Waahlngton and Ave fallIn*
below it. Though Waahlngton enjoya
hardly any atate beneflta, Ita total
elty tax burden practically outweigha ;
the combined clty-county-atate tax burdena
of half of theae typical American
eltlea.
Thla table thua bring* together the
fignrea of a amall number of populoua,
proaperou* and progreaalve eltlea, Including
aeveral which would naturally
be more heavily tax-burdened than t
Waahlngton, and eomparea them in per
capita conclualona exhauatlvely and
minutely with the capital, utilizing not 1
only the atandarda of comparlaon that <
ft
I
I
r i
4 - IMI& WAY
AT '
ire reasonable and fair* but also those s
hat are unreasonable and unfair. It c
akes, first* the nearest great cities of fa
he Atlantic slope* Washington** larger t
mmediate neighbors to the north, Bnlimore,
Philadelphia and Newark. It ?
idds the largest southern city, New Or- ,
cans, the nearest In population to J
Washington among American cities. It
idds finally (to represent the middle ^
rest) the largest cities of Illinois, T
>hlo. Wisconsin, Minnesota, Indiana p
tnd Kentucky-?that is, Chicago, Cleve- *
and, Milwaukee, Minneapolis, Indian- .
ipolls and Louisville. Washington's tax
tardea, measured by any standard and .
>y all standards* averages creditably la t
omparlsoa with those of these ten typ- h
ral. and wealthy American cities. Is
tot the capital equitably taxed? ?
Compare Washington's tax burden i]
tern by item with that of New Orleans, t
he nearest American city to Washing- i;
on in population, by far the largest 0
ity in the south. First realty tax, t
Washington, 14.62 per capita; New Or- 3
eans, 10.33. Add personalty tax and d
Jew Orleans draws closer to Washing- p
on, the latter's total property tax per d
apita being 16.00 and the former's t
4.56. Then add the other city taxes s
md the per capita municipal receipts v
rom all taxes are, Washington, 20i)2; lj
Jew Orleans, 17.30. Add per capita for p
.11 county taxes and the figures are un- p
hanged, since the census includes n
ounty taxes among city taxes for all n
ities over 300,000 in population. Then a
idd equitable proportions of state and d
:ounty taxes as calculated by Statist!- c
dan Beales of the census bureau and c
hese result Washington, 20.02; New Or- I
eans, 19.40. Finally add, unfairly, to 1;
>er capita receipts from all municipal 1;
axes per capita receipts from all state n
md county taxes and there result o
Washington, 20.02; New Orleans, 20.51. h
rhese figures are so close together that x
f the "general government" item alone o
if state expenditures Is deducted New p
)rleans' total falls again below Wash- p
ngton's. the figures being Washington,
10.02; New Orleans, 19.99. No fair- *
ninded man will contend for a moment j
hat Washington's equitable tax burden r
HClUUcn a. <-.?OIRC wux I IU
hat which the New Orleans resident c
jays, not as such resident but as a
^ouisianan, specifically for the state
government administration of Louisana.
Washington has no state governnent
and enjoys no benefit, privilege
>r immunity corresponding to those
vhich are derived specifically from the
itate machinery. Equity does not figure
is part of 1 ts tax burden payment for
vhat it does not get.
Washington's aggregate tax burden
lightly exceeds that of New Orleans.
5hould it not, in view of Washington's
Usabilities, be less? The bulk of the
otal tax burden in both cities is borne
>y realty. Is it not fair to claim that
tVashlngton's realty burden is much
larder to carry than that of New Oreans,
because in view of the extraordllary
exemptions of the capital only a
'raction of Washington's realty must
>ear a heavier burden than practically
he whole of New Orleans? The latest
ensus figures (those for 1912) in the
ecently issued bulletin show for Washington
taxable realty of $495,483,730
ind exempt realty of $406,540,161. New ?
Orleans' figures of exemption do not ap>roach
anywhere near this vast exemp:ion
which is endured by the capital's
issessment roll.
Washington's city tax burden outveighs
also the total city, county and
itate burdens of a majority of the group
>f neighboring cities and of the group i c
>f southern cities, and is outweighed by
these combined taxes of a majority of
the cities of the northern central group
ind of the group of cities over 100,000
n population. But these differences in
burden of comparable cities and Washngton,
thus measured, are so slight in
most cases that in view of Washington's
disabilities its nominally lighter
burden is really heavier and harder to
uear.
IiiMtrnd of belnif higher than or aa
high UN IhoNf of comparable American
''Itlea, Waahlnffton** aggregate tax burilen
ahould be lighter than moat of
them, on account of the extraordinary
percentage of property within Ita llmIta
exempt from taxntlon, the high percentage
of non-toxpnyern In Ita population
and ita lack of ao many aourcea
?( tux revenue enjoyed by the ordinary
commercial American city. The Joint
pomralttee condenaea equitable contention
on thla point Into a nutahell when
It reporta that Waahlngton'a prr capita
annual burden conatltutea a reaaonable
tax levy, "eapeclally when we conalder,
a we muat, thut a large proportion of
the population here paya but a amall
amount of the taxea impoaed."
Washington's Equitable Tax Burden
Should Be Among the Lowest.
Washington's equitable tax burden
jhould be among the lowest per capita
m the "country. It Is conceded by the
reasonable that non-industrial, noncommercial
Washington, with the
THE POLITICAL COUNTY FAI]
o " STe 'cn,*ovTment empioy
* the cltys financial back
'One, Is poorer In taxable resources
han the average American city of its
ize and is less able to bear the same
ax burden. No other city has so
urge a percentage of property exempt
rom taxation as the National Capital,
rith a very large fraction of the city's
ealty held from the tax list by the
Inited States, and within that exemptd
fraction the city's only great inustrial
plants and factories. The exraordinary
exemption of taxable vales
makes the same burden weigh the
eavier upon the taxpaying fraction of
he community. No other city, perhaps, r
as so large a percentage of non-tax aying
transients, who figure in the f
ensus but not in the tax list, as Wash- I
ngton, which from its very nature as f
he nation's city is unstable and shift
ng in population. Nearly 30 per cent
f its people are colored, and this fracion
pays a far smaller proportion than
0 per cent of the total taxes. The
i8abilities, commercial, industrial and
olitical, which attach to legal resience
In the nation's city tend to cause
hose who live within its boundaries to n
ecure or retain legal residence elserhere
and to keep off the city's tax
ist. Thus the non-taxpaying census
'opulatlon, which reduces the nominal
<er capita tax levy without, in fact,
naking cash contributions, is at a
naximum and the taxable resources at
. minimum, with the result of serious
isadvantage to the District in per
apita comparison. How much per p
apita of tax levy could Philadelphia, j
laltimore, New Orleans, Chicago, Cleveand
or Milwaukee afford to pay if its 1
argcst taxpayers, the owners of its li
nills and manufacturing plants, were 2
mitted from the calculation; if oneialf
of the built-up section of the city
vere exempt from taxation, and if an d
xtraordinarily large percentage of its
opulatlon were transients or non-tax- .
aying for other reasons?
It is conceded also by all reasonable
>eople that the tax burdens of many a
American cities contain factors which
epresent conditions not found here, and
hat in estimating the equitable tax bur- a
len of the Washlngtonian the sums rep- n
esenting these factors may be eliminated, r
ince its government by Congress, under .
latlonal safeguards, prevents graft and 11
enders unnecessary and unfair any com- b
ulsory local tax contribution to meet ex- y
>enses of this character. There are also
ertain expenses of sustaining representa- a,
ive government in the states which do
tot need to be raised by Washington, 11
ince it denied all representative govrnment,
and which ought not to be dupli- J
ated in figuring its equitable tax burden,
t is conceded that on the wholethe Washngtonian's
equitable per capita tax bur- a
len should be somewhat less than that of t1
he citizens of the average industrial, p
ommercial American city approximating
Vashington in size, location and general
onditions. b
The figures which have been given show a
hat Washington's per capita tax burden,
nstead of being below the average, is dis- a,
inctly above it, and that many cities
vhich ought to bear and are able to bear u,
. far heavier burden fall below it, even jr
vhen standards of comparison are emloyed
which in effect imply the unfair
uxntlon of the Washlngtonlan for what
ie doe* not get. The burden imposed by
Congress upon the local taxpayers is
ully as heavy as that which the average
elf-governing municipality imposes upon v
tself, and in view of the capital's lack
if taxable resources and other peculiar *
Usabilities under which the District of ii
Columbia labors its tax is harder to bear a
han that of the average American comnunity.
For the reason* which have been stat- p
>d the Washlngtonlan's total tax bur- j ii
len should be distinctly les* per capita | p
hnn that of the resident* of compa- j
able cities to weigh as heavily upon the ^
oral taxpayer. Is not the local tax bur- .
[en heavy enough, when in aggre- 11
rate city taxes per capita It exceed*
hose of Philadelphia, Cleveland, Haiti- c
lore, Milwaukee,1^Newark, New Orleans, v
linnenpolls, Indianapolis and Lonlsrlllef
When In all city taxes plus all
ounty taxes It also exceeds per capita 1
ivery one of these cities f And when n
vith Its city taxes alone it exceeds per *npita
the combined city, county and n
tate taxes of Philadelphia, Cleveland, t
tewarK ana luuinuayunB, u IB Ci
icoded only n few cents by Baltimore
tnd New Orleansf
Is not the Washlngtonlan's tax barlen,
however reckoned heavy enoaghf
an this aggregate harden be eqult- T
ibly increased through repeal of the
talf-and-half law and reduction of the li
latlon's proportionate contribution! If < ^
he personalty tax and consequently the j,
otal tax are Increased by the addition tJ
?f a tax on Intangibles, must not in
qulty the excessive realty and business
axes be correspondingly decreased, so
hat the aggregate burden may remain
he samef
Since the capital's total tax burden W
annot equitably be made heavier both th
he proposed repeal of the half-and- al
talf law and the proposed new tax on d<
ntangibles are In equity prohibited. m
r^f
15
1 S^Ail|#
k jAhty
\L FVL ?'tx. . s> /
WiiillAmv''*-4//
m f -
?
OUR ENGINEER
CORPS AT WORK
Problems which Corps of Engineers,
U. S. A., must solve in
their work in the camps along
the Mexican border; training
officers and enlisted men. Read
this article in The Sunday Star.
ilGKT PERSONS KILLED
IN AIR RAID ON ENGLAND
Tarty-Six Others Injured?Germans
Reach Outskirts of
London.
LONDON, August 25, 6:50 p.m.?Eight
ersons were killed and thirty-six Inured
In the Zeppelin raid last night,
t was announced officially today. One
lundred bombs were dropped. One
leppelin reached the outskirts of Lonan.
Berlin reports an attack on Lonon
proper.
An official statement issued early in the
ay says:
"Six hostile airships raided the east
nd southeast coasts of England last
ight at intervals between midnight
nd 3 o'clock this morning. One airship
lade her way westward well inland. The
emainder of the fleet carried out short
iroads over the coast. The number of
ombs dropped by the raiders has not
et been ascertained. Several bombs
re reported to have been directed at
hips at sea. The damage effected by
le raid was slight.
Houses Are recked.
"In one locality a railway station
nd some houses were damaged and j
wo horses were killed. At another I
oint two houses were wrecked.
"The total casualties have not yet
een reported. To date nine persons
re reported injured, some fatally.
"Anti-aircraft guns came Into action
t certain points both on land and from
lips at sea. Some of our aircraft went |
p in pursuit. One aeroplane succeeded j
1 firing on a raider at close range, but !
ie eluded her pursuers in the clouds,
further report will follow."
Sails Toward London.
A Central News dispatch says there
,*as great excitement in a town on the
'hames estuary at 1 o'clock this mornng,
when news was received of the
pproach of a Zeppelin. Mist obscured
he raider, but it could be heard aproaching
from the coast. After hoverng
over the town for some time it
assed toward the west. Shortly aftrward
a series of violent explosions.
allowed by cannonading, shook buildngs
and lighted the sky.
The people thronged the streets,
almly wa'tching these operations,
rhich lasted half an hour.
This dispatch indicates that ZeppeIns
which visited England last night
lay have appeared in the vicinity of
.ondon, which is on the Thames, sixty
liles from its mouth. The course of
he airship referred to was in the diection
of London.
Arkansas Progressives for Hughes.
LITTLE ROCK, Ark., August 25.?
he progressive central committee has
idorsed the candidacy of Charles E.
[ughes and Charles W. Fairbanks,
ohn M. Parker's name was not menoned
at the meeting.
Mrs. Letts Wins Championship.
GRAND RAPIDS, Mich., August 25.?
!rs. F. C. Letts, jr., of Cincinnati won
le western women's golf championship
; the Kent Country Club links today,
efeating Miss Laurie Kaiser of Flossoor
Club, Chicago, 3 and 1.
PLAN ADJOURNMENT
SEPTEMBER 10R 2
Administration Leaders Aim to
Present Joint Resolution
Within Day or Two.
ONLY TWO BILLS REMAIN
FOR PASSAGE BY SENATE
End of Congress' Session Expected tc
Follow Disposal of General Deficiency
and Revenue Measures.
Administration leaders todaj
were planning to present a joini
resolution in the Senate anc
House within a day or two pro
viding for adjournment of Con
gress next week, Friday or Satur
day. Senator Simmons, chairmai
-st
ui mc nnance committee, saia n<
believed such a resolution woub
be agreed to unless unforeseen de
velopmentk^should arise.
Democratic Senate leaders said It wai
their plan to pass the general defl
ciency bill as soon as it comes from th<
House, Tuesday in all probability; ther
to pass the revenue bill, and then t<
adjourn. Senator Simmons said tha
informal conferences between th<
finance and ways and means commit
tees on Senate amendments to tin
revenue bill would begin at once, a<
that an agreement on the bill would b<
ready as soon as the Senate had passe<
the measure.
"I believe that efforts will be mad<
to bring up the immigration bill anc
the corrupt practices bill," said Senator
Simmons, "but I think that Con
gress will adjourn nevertheless as soor
as it is discovered that both thes<
measures will provoke prolonged de
bate."
Several democratic senators said Sen
ator Owen's proposed motion to tak<
up the corrupt practices bill would b<
defeated.
Absent Members Sent For.
Leaders on both sides of the House o
Representatives today sent out mes
sages of recall for absent members
this being the first move toward a con
certed efTort to adjourn this session o
Congress one week from today. As fa
as the Houise is concerned this can b
accomplished readily, it is believed. Th
one unfinished piece of necessary bus!
ness is the deficiency appropriation bill
which is being slowly pieced togethe
in the committee on appropriations.
Dilatory tactics in the House toda:
led by Representative Greene of Massa
chusetts slowed up progress toward th
ultimate enactment of the shipping bill
It is conceded that with a quorum in th<
House all pending legislation on the pro
gram could be shoved through withou
difficulty.
Speed-up tactics for the Webb bill, t<
permit combinations of American ex
porters in foreign countries for the pur
pose of competing with foreigners, wen
adopted by leaders today. There was tall
on both sides of placing the Webb bill m
an amendment on the revenue bill in th<
Senate. If this is accomplished severa
days might be gained.
The Webb bill is due for passage in tin
House this afternoon.
BITUSANDMUSH
IN RUSSIAN HANDS
Slavs Have Renewed Theii
Offensive Over Whole
Asiatic Front.
rftj KUUKALJ, oy wireless to ixjnaon
'August 25.?It is announced that th?
Russians have resumed their advance
along the entire Asiatic front.
The Turks have evacuated BitHs.
Russian forces also have reoccupied
Mush, captured by the Turks August 8.
An official communication issued by the
war department last night states the
Russians captured 2,300 prisoners in
the battle at Rachta.
Last night's communication says:
"Caucasus front: Our troops, pressing
the enemy in the region west of Lake
Van, entered Mush, where they took
some prisoners.
"Supplementary information received
j from army headquarters says that in
the battle fought in the region ol
Rachta, where we surrounded portions
of the 4th Turkish Division, we took
'prisoner the whole of the 31th Turkish
Regiment, consisting of its commander,
fifty-six officers and 1.600 ol
the rank and file, as well as nearly all
of the remnants of the loth Turkish
Regiment, consisting of two staff others,
several other offlers and 050 Askaris.
We also captured in this battle
three cannon and three machine guns. '
G. A. R. LEADERS MEET.
Preparing the Annual Encampment
at Kansas City.
KANSAS CITY. August 25.?Chief executive
officers of the Grand Army ol
the Repfublic arrived in Kansas City today
for the annual encampment of the
veterans' organization, which opens to
morrow. Jiiiias t\. inoniori 01 Cincinnati.
commander-in-chief; John M.
Adams of Cincinnati, adjutant general,
and C. D. R. Stowits of Buffalo. N. Y.,
quartermaster general, were among
those reaching here today, and they
plunged at once into the mass of details
incident to the reunion, which members
of the local committees say will be attended
by more than 40,000 persons.
Christmas Ship on Way to Alaska.
SEATTLE, Wash., August 25.?A
Christmas ship is on the way from
Seattle today for Alaska. She is the
motor ship Kuskokwim River, which is
headed for the stream whose name she
bears. Her cargo, which includes
Christmas toys and gifts, is destined for
seldom-visited points far up the Kuskokwim
and other places in the interior.
i
V
PRESIDENT WANTS
: RAIL CONTROVERSY
, SFTTI Ffl IN 4 n4Y
uui i ulu 111 n uni
Executive Making Final Effort
to Have Dispute Adjusted
by Mutual Agreements. J
DISAPPOINTED AT FAILURE
' OF ROAD HEADS TO YIELD
Ultimatum of Recourse to Firmer
Measures Now Is
r
t Prospect.
1
- TWO BIG ISSUES CONCEDED
- Eight-Hour Day and Arbitration
1 Accepted, But New Demand of
; Lines for Guarantee of Increased
1 i Rates Halts Compromise.
President Wilson wants the
? railroad controversy definitely
s settled by mutual agreement be1
fore tomorrow night. If the railt
road presidents prove recalcitrant
s today it is thought likely by those
in closest touch with the situation
3 that he will make this an ultima'
turn to them.
He is making a last effort today
> to effect an agreement without re- '
| course to firmer measures. If he
- issues the ultimatum it will have
3 allowed two weeks during which
he has acted as personal mediator,
' holding up all other executive
! business and postponing cabinet
meetings that he might be unincumbered
to give his closest at.
tention to the strike controversy.
' The President was disappointed
f this morning that he was unable
r to send positive word to the
I brotherhood leaders that the
I. ?-*-* n?o wi vwmpi vunac nau uv,v,n
r arranged. So confident had he
r been that this would be possible
? that it is understood Judge Wil*
liam L. Chambers. United States
1 commissioner of mediation and
? conciliation had assured the men
- that they would have a message
c from the President.
5
" Synopsis of Conditions.
The simplest synopsis of conditions
S today, according to officials close to
the President, is that the railroads
have been granted what they have
been contending for for more than a
week, but that they now demand a
guarantee from the President that he
will force through Congress legislation
I assuring them of increased rates and
k the arbitration board in this session.
| This the President feels he cannot do.
The railroads had conceded the eighth'our
day and based all their contentions
on the question of arbitration.
* Then the brotherhoods had been persuaded
to withdraw their demands for
time and a half for overtime; but thia
did not suit the railroads, since those
demands might be renewed at any
time. The railroads held out for submission
of all contingent issues, including
the time-and-a-half demand
and their own eounter propositions, to
arbitration.
Judge Chambers, acting under instruc
tions from President Wilson, yesterday
11.J fViii hrAthorlinofl It
: previintju ui?wu ?
after a strenuous session to accept the
arbitration plan. When the White House
sent word to the railroad leaders through
1 Judge Chambers, and later when he talked .
direct with the subcommittee of three?
[ Presidents Holden, Willard and Hovett?
s it was learned for the first time that the
railroad presidents proposed to hold out
i for an absolute guarantee that the legislation
they demand shall be passed
I through Congress at. this session. It is
understood that they previously had a
promise from the 1'resident that he would
| do ail he could personally and properly
as President to see that their stipulations
were carried out.
Two Big- Issues Conceded.
The two big issues of the controversy
. have been conceded by both parties, the
eight-hour day and arbitration.
; From the first the President has held
that the eight-hour day was lifted out
of the atmosphere of arbitration. He
publicly declared it was sanctioned by
society. In so declaring he felt this
was proved by the direct votes of the
people of the country-, and that as
President he ftiust execute sud! a wish.
Congress, which must in some measure,
he felt, represent the opinion of the
people, had deoalred for an eighthour
day; all government employes
were put on an eight-hour schedule,
. all government contracts based on an
, eight-hour day stipulation. Again,
the progressive platform in 1912 defor
an eight-hour day and its
> candidate grot almost as many votes
as Mr. Wilson, and again this year the
democratic party platform has declared
for an eight-hour day. Under
these conditions, close friends of the
President say. he felt he could not
view the eight-hour day as arbitrable.
In explaining his attitude in reply to
the statement of the railroad managers'
committee, the President said he fa!
vored the principle of arbitration for
settlement of all industrial disputes. In
proof of this he persuaded the committee
representing the employes to agree
to the counter proposal from the railroads
that all contingent issues, including
the time-and-a-half overtime and
the railroads' counter propositions, be
settled by arbitration.
What Employes Want.
If arbitration comes ? and there Is
strong probability that it will be accepted?the
employes want the investigation
based on a ten-year period
which will Include the heavy railroad
I
