THE ARIZONA KEPUBL
AM INDEPENDENT PROGRESSIVE JOURNAL
ICAN
TWENTY-SEVENTH YEAH
. PAGES
PHOENIX, ARIZONA, FRIDAY MOKNINU, AU(JUST 25, 191(j
8 PAGES
VOL. XXVII., NO. 99
BRITISH
AND FRENCH MAKE GA1S ON SOU
FRONT
7
il IIS 10 FRENCH
ILE BRITISH ADVANCE I
RFR1QN SOUTH OF. TH1EPVAL
MeritNaughtWithPresentAdministrationSaysHughes
X? & J& j& ' j0 j&
R. R. PRESIDENTS RAISE
("Republican A. P. Leaied Wire
Striking simultaneously, the British
and French have made substantial
gains on the Summe front, according
lu Paris and 1-ondon. Maurepas has
fallen ' to the French, who haw
pushed forward more than 2no yards
beyond tlie town on a front of a mile
mid a ouarter. The British report i
SuO yard advance south of Thiepval
mill the capture of many prisoners.
The capture of Maurepas leaven
Clery almost surrounded and brings
the French directly in tront of the
important railroad town of Combles.
Thiepval is in about the same posi
tion as Clery and 'the allied front as
described now resembles the teeth of
a great saw between which the Ger
mans are tenaciously holding the
ruins (f several villages.
Dispatches from the Somme front
Indicate that the French are prepar
ing to extend their offensive for a
distance of SO miles south of the
present battle line. They are reported
to have opened a tremendous cannon
ading from Estrees to I-issigny and
' the bombardment is said to havu
reached an unprecedented intensity
the last two days.
No change is reported from the
east but the Russian offensive in" Ar
menia apparently is assigning power
ful proportions. PetroSrad reiorts
the re-occupatior. of the important
Armenian town of Mush and the cap
ture of 23"0 prisoners at Rachta.
Thv situation on the Salonika front
remains obscure, but apparently there
have been no important rhnse since
the allied flanks jvere forced bac k by
he Bulgarians at the opening of the
offensive
There have been no further reports
ns to the attitude of Rumania and
the main intertst Is centered now on
lii.in positions near Lake Ostrcvo on
the Macedonian front.
The war of lice report of today says
the Bulgarians defeated Serbian coun
ter attacks.
Government circles here, though
none loo optimistic, view the Ru
manian situation calmly, taking the
attitude that it is Rumania's next
move
Defeat of the entente forces along
th .Struma river on the Macedonian
front rn northeastern (Ireeue was an
nounced by the Bulgarian war office
in a statement Issued yesterday at
Sofia.
The statement says the entente
forces took flight, leaving the ground
eo'-eied with dead, and that up to
the time the statement was issued the
bodies of more than 40 dead had
been counted. Large quantities of
ammunition and supplies. Including
eight machine guns, were captured by
the Bulgarians.
The announcement savs:
"On the heiirhts west of like Os-
trovo the Serbians are still offering
"Mistance to the Bulgarian attack.
Their counter attacks against Ie
maat Jeri failed.
"All reports-from the enemy's cum?
regarding Serbo-Franco-British sue
cesses, hoth here and on the Vardi-r
an ' the Stmma. am p:ire inventions."
The Italian artillery Is displaying
increasim? activity nlo.iR the Isonzo
front, according to the Austrian
hendqtmrters report of Aueust 1:3.
No important infantry engagement
nnvwhere along the Ausiro-iiaiisn
front are reported in the announce
m?nt.
Sham fiehting continues In th
Carnathir.n regions where Austrian
and German troops are disputing Rus
sian attempts to advance through tin
In the Vienna headquarters report
of Aasust -3 the German suc.esse
norta of C'apul. where Russian ,"si
Hons were taken and tt .prisoner'
ca'itured. Is announce,!.
Further attacks bv the Russians lr
'h Jctlonitza pass regian, near
liie, were repulsed.
Greece. Athens disimtche.s reuoet j passes int.. Hungary.
Greek volunteers ruyhing to seres in
tPke tip arms against the Bulgarians.
Conflicting reports are being received
as to whether or not the Greeks and
Vulgarians actually have dashed. Re
rsirts to the Greek capital state that
fiuhting has been going on at Seres
for davs.
The Italians who are pushing thei--offensive
on the extreme north o' the
Austrn-Italian line claim the cnoture
.f several Austrian positions. Thei
has been an increase in artillery ac
tivity along Hie Isonzo-but no in
lantry acth ns have been reported.
French Occupy Maurepas
PARIS. Aug.. 24. French troops
today completed the occupation of
Maurepas and carried their line 20
bevond the town on a front
of two kilometres, according to
nicht's communication.
The French are violently Domiiaru
F'inMina Mora Bitter
WITH THK BRITISH ARMIES IN
"RANGE (via London. August la)
.Aii-iist 24. There has been murderous
Work on both flanks In the Somme
region. With every stage of the Brit
ish progress the fighting seems to be
come more bitter and the artillery fire
hotter. On the left the Germans hold
to Thiepval and on lie right still cllne
to Guillemont which of ail the ruined
to- vt'lxKcs now is most completely pestle-
mixed by shell fire.
The repulse last night of a German
lng the German lines from F.strees. 'attempt to drive the British out of the
which marks the soutnern extremity edge of Guillemont and the neighboring
of their present offensive, to Lass- ptone quarry was one of the most Aun
igny. a distance of about 20 miles, KUine since the war began,
according to the war correspondent Tonight the British have been mak
of La Lilierte. 1 ins further progress east of Delville
The corresjiondent says that heavy W(KM1 and further tightening the pin
cannonading is in progress along the cera on (jinchy and Guillemont. '
line from Vermar.dovillers through .
l.ihops. Miaulnes and Ro"to Lisa-;
igny. The Obstructive French fire (
has Irawn the German airmen across,
the French lines, contrary to their
custom. They ure apparently trv- I
ing to rer-onpoitcr the position of the
allied artillery
FRAtERNAL CONGRESS
MUST HAVE PUBLICITY i
CLKV'KLAN 1), O.. Aug. 24 Na-
lionwide publicity is essential to I
the continued growth and devel- 1
opment of the National FraternU j
t'ongress of America, the annual 1
convention of that body decided !
today. An appropriation of $1UUU i
a month was made for the main- ',
tainaiice of a publicity bureau. At
the close of a healed campaign, j
1 I. Boak, Denver, was chosen j
president of tiie congress He;
was nposed by Mrs. Frances K. ;
Burns of St, Louis, vice president I
;f the congress last year. I
n-
-n
Bra PRA SES
POLICY OF THE
T
AD1I5TA1N
BISBEE MAN GETS OFFICE
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
PITTSBURG, Aug. 24-The biennial
r-Anvanl!,.n thn I ......I tm nA l
-i api.ve i.ernian uanoyi,, dilute closed here tonight with the
have apoearcd in the air. says the jin of 0ffi,.(.rs. George Stewart
oorresfx.ndcnt. "but were withdrawn
nuickly when attacked by Y renew
airmen. Scouting machines sent out
lv the fiermans were driven back
after numerous air battles. The
artillery action In the last 3fi hours
over the entire Somme front leached
an extraordinary Intensity. The Ger
man guns replied vigorously and
home of their batteries were silenced.'"
of hieago, was elected supreme
grand master. Robert Ferguson, Bis
lee. Arii!.. was ejected supreme grand
inside tyler.
o
POSTPONE SCHOOL OPENING
'Republican A. P. Leated Wlrej
TOhKlxi, o.. Aug. l. Opening of
British Advance Toledo's public schools haa Iwen post-
LONPON, Aug. 24. British troops poned to September IS on account of
have advanced 3o'i clards south of the infantile paralysis pldemic, ac-
Thiepval. capturing a German trench' entiling to announcement by the
400 vards In length and manv pris- board of education today. Since the
oners, says an official statement is- disease was discovered there have
ued by the war office tonight. been 17 deaths out of 95 cases re-
The Russians have concentrated ported. The seventeenth death oc-
n large number of troops on the curreil today.
Rumanian frontier and on the bank.i
of the Russian Danube with which
to invade Bulgaria by way of Dub
rudja. according to a Builniwct dis
patch to the Morning Host, quoting
the A zest. The A zest also reports
jwiweiful Rumanian forces gathered'
op the lower Iwnuiie and the Pruth. '
German airships again have raided
the east and southeast coast of Eng- .
land, dropping bemb. according to an'
official communication Issued this
morning I
The communication says: , J f er"nlican A. P. Leased Wire
"Several airships crossed the east- ' LONDON, Aug. 24. Great Britain, I
routhenst coasts shortly before mi.T- following the lead of Sweden, has made
night. A number of bombs were public the entire correspondence with
fircpied hut there has been no re- Sweden concerning British seizures of
port cf casualties or damage." the Swedish parcel post with the
United States and Swedish retaliation
Buloar Attack Proceedinq In stopping all British parcels In transit
BERLIN. Aug. 24. The Bularim to Russia,
attack is proceeding against the Ser- The correspondence discloses that
Penrose and Sherman Take
Day Debating Revenue Bill
Republican A. P. Leated Wire i duoted throughout the country (In fav
Republican A. P. Leaied Wirt
WATERY ILLF., Maine, Aue- 24. -Vigorous
praise for the administra
tion s Kuropean and Mexican policies
was the outstanding feature of an an
dress here tonight by Secretary of
War Newton D. Baker, principal
speaker at a meeting held in connec
tion with the democratic camimign in
Maine in liehalf of 1'resideiit lison
The president's course, Mr. Baker said
has infused the spirit of the Ieclara-
lion of Independence and of the Gol
den Rule" Into this country s foreign
relations.
"1 have shown that the administra
tion of President Wilson has followed
i consistent program in its domestic
relations." Mr. Baker declared, toward
th end of his address. "U has pro
cured the enactment of laws more
Aholesome and beneficial than perhaps
:an be credited in the aggregate to the
idministraUuim which have intervened
dnce the civil war. It Is Inspired by
t philosophy which is an expression
F the longing of mankind In this day
nd generation. It has refused to
illow itself t" be turned aside by for
eign violence" from the accomplishment
if Its great program.
"The administration has kept the
ieace. It has done unto Mexico as we
would he done by, and has Infused the
pirit of the Declaration of Independ
ence and itf the Golden Rule Into Its
foreign relations.
"Ijirge problems He before us in the
lext four years. The reconstruction
nust take place. No unfamiliar hand
ihould be put In to guide the course
if our nation during that period. No
incertain voice should I permitted to
speak our spirit at the council tabli
that reorganizes the universe. Thi
is a time when, having pressed onward
nobly on a high and difficult course
the finish should be left to those wht
have demonstrated their ability by
their work already done."
During his discussion of Kuropean
policies, Mr. Baker said:
"There are those who hint, tint clan
not say, that If they hail been in the
places of responsibility they would
have involved us in that maelstrom
They Indulge In a cheap form of elo
quence about what they would havf
ione, and affect to ln-lleye that in ai
obscure way we are hurt in our self
oride because all the rest of the worli'
is thus engaged while we are preserv
ing our peaceful relations.
"The t'nited States is today th
friend of each of the belligerent na
tions. Our friends are growing thi
crops that are to fed the multitude:
whose hands have been withdrawn
PUN EVOLVED
11 C011TTEE
- IT RPPHDVED
NEW OBJECnONSilOlNE ' IS FDR
uu wit u
WEST GOING STRONG
FOR REPUBLICANISM
CIVIL SERVICE
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
SALT LAKE CITY. Utah, Aug. 24.
Charles E. Hughes, speaking before
an audience that crowded every avail-
Repub'iran A. P. Leased Wire
WASHINGTON, Auk.. 24 objec
tions wlilc-ii developed tonight at a
meting of the railroad presidents
nd managers, to the tentative plan
evolved by the committee of eight
residents considering wuvs to avoid
the threatened general strike, result
ed in a further postponement of
final action. The conference ad
journed to meet again tomorrow, and.
is one president phrased It. the sit
uation is each that "it may be set
tled in twenty minutes or tile matter
may go over uatil next week."
A statement issued by tiie railroad
executives ' tonight summed up this
wav:
At the Invitation of President Wil
son. .Messrs Male Holtlen. JulU:e
K. S Loveti and Daniel Willard went
to the White House at noon and helu
a short conference wiih the president.
"A conference of tiie ra.iroud exe
uiives wus held at :J o'clock and a
new phase ol ihe situation of some
importance was laid before the con-ft-renec
oy the pedal committee.
"After considerable discussion with
out definite actum an adjournment
was taken un'il 11 o'clock tomorrow
murium;. In the meant line the spec
ial committee of the presidents will
orti.iue its libors."
The special committee's plan draft
ed uftir a ws k's consideration,
would provide lor granting an eight
hour "basic" day to the trainmen,
but witir assurance that every effort
would be made by the administration
(By Republican Associated Press Leased Wire)
CHICAGO, Aug. 24. Alvin T. Hart, manager of tho western republican
national campaign headquarters, today issued the following statement: .
"Preliminary reports from the middle and far west are most encouraging able foot of apace in the great Mor
We are in daily receipt of advices from the chairmen of the different re-! mon tabernacle here tonight assailed
publican state central committees. Invariably these chairmen advise us i n ' h adminlstration for "specious dis
normally republican states that the republican majority this year will be . .. . ,
larger than ever. , regard" of the civil service regulations
"Throughout the west the harmony with which the republicans and in making appointments, declared that
former progressives are working is even mor complete than we had antici- he stood for faithful observance of the
pated. Reports from the section covered by Mr. Hughes in his recent west- civil service and asserted that he would
em trip are exceptionally encouraging. Tho sentiment for Hughes through-! extend itirsphere, if elected,
out this section had manifested itself before the convention. The people of Mr. Hughes spokv with the demo
the west have known Hughes as insurance investigator, as governor and as cratic candidate for governor on the
a jurist- They knew him and trusted him. They looked upon him as a man platform and wiUt other democratic
exceptionally qualified for the tremendous task devolving upon the next candidates and party officials, espe
president of the United States. In his trip west the people of that section cially invited guests, in the hall,
have come into intimate personal touch with him. j "We "av had under this administra-
"Their admiration remains, but there is noticeably a more personal ele-1 tion." the nominee said, "law after law
ment in the attitude of the western public towards Mr. Hughes. They have' enacted providing for the creation of
seen him and shaken Fiands with him, and the west likes him." .thousands of places with provisions to
j the effect that it should not be neces
sary in making the appointment to con
form to the merit system, which is
another way of saying they need not
be under civil servic regulations,
"Spurious excuses were made. They
deceived no one. Evety one of those
clauses designed to make inapplicable
j the merit system and to afford an op-
IUI llillli; II, 1 1 1 U I. JMIllDDII U I . J'XJ 111
ical spoils.
"We must sedulously guard against
that. So far as I am concerned, the
operation of the merit system will be
recognized and extended in order that
we increase the standard of public
work, that we elevave those standards,
that we may efficiency in the public
f Republican A. P. Leased Wire j sen-ice.
CHIHUAHUA CITY, Mexico. Aug.! Mr. Hughes referred to "claims of all
24. A Japanese physician by the name1 candidates that the want efficiency
of Nodko claims to have brought about, of government .....
the dwflth of Villa by slow poison given I , 1 Poul "ol Pi you wouia tntng
wnai i say wormy or special attention.
SAYS CAMPAIGN
D01TIS LI
IS A BASE HO
Republican A. P. Leaied Wire
WASHINGTON. Aug.. 24. Repub
lican senators were accused today by
Senator iwen. democrat, of a de
liberate effort o prevent action be
fore the November election on his
corrupt practices bill, which would
to serine a rreight fate increase to i put sirict limitations on campaign
recompense the roads, and furthei Icortrlhutlnns. Then the Oklahoma
assuraiu e that congress would he senator announced that he woud
risked ! enact U giclalion to insure make an insistent fight to bring up
settlement of fut ire labor dispute the- measure at this cession of eon-
through an investigating committee. , grass regwnlles of consequences to
The entire plan has not been laid j early adjournment pians. He de
before all the executives and man- g lared the existing campaign contri-ig'-rs
but Its p',inls have been dis-! butions l tw was a fraud on the
ussed at th" viirlo.is conferences. It! American people, charged that the
Icvcloped after tonight's, met tin j so-called lumber trust had sent $10.
th.it objection had betn raised to the (n0 into Oklahoma to defeat his re
freight rate Increase feature on at I nomination because he voted to deny
east two grounds. It was argued by I William lirimer a seat in the sen
come that there can be no assurance 1 ate and precipitated a lively debate
if a rate in rease becausci no tine j in which republicans and democratic
oild say what the interstate com- senators bitterly accused each other
men e commission might do: and ! of planning to bu the annroachlng
election.
VILLA SAYS
JAP DOCTOR,
(Continued on Page Two)
BRITAIN AND SWEDEN NEARLY .
BREAK OVER MAIL INTERFERENCE
WASHINGTON. Aug. 24. Senators
Penrose and Sherman, republicans,
consumed most of the time In today's
debate on the revenue bill. The
Pennsylvania senator concluded a
speech against the measure begun
yesterday, attacking particularly the
proposed munitions " and Inheritance
taxes. He also criticized the tariff
commission to lie created by the bill.
'The tariff commission paragraph,"
said the senator, "Is not of Hny very
great importance. It apparently Is
put In tnerelv ns a measure to nlt'a'-t
and mislead republicans. In fact,
there has been a propaganda Con
or of the tariff commission. This
provision in the pending bill supplies
a popular catenword which Is mean
ingless and ineffective. Should the
republicans be restored to power, they
ttlll doubtless provide for a tariff
commission whic h will produce urai
Ileal and effective results In the dl-
rejtion of reasonable and adequate
protective rates bused upon a thor
ough examination of the difference In
cost here and abroad.
Senator She! man attneked the pro
posed Income tax Increase as unfair
ami ineoultnblo and assailed the dem
ocratic tariff,
. Iw t some rj the most important
hlpp"rs of the .country have already ;
made t plain that they are not in
sympathy with any move which may
near a rate Increase. It was point-1
d out a'so that although 1'resldent
Wilson has expressed his lielief that
uch a rate Increase should be grant
si if the eight -hour day is given the
mploves. no one can tell how the
lext election i.s coming out and that
there can he no possibility of an in
Tense before1 next March or probably
ater.
Attention is called, too, to the fact
:hat the commission hitherto has
lieUl that it cannot consider wage
ctnndards in dealing with proposed
rate in'-reases, although legislation
v congress might remove that dif-
liculty.
The principal arguments against
he Idea of a permanent commission
'or the prevention or settlement of
strikes was that It would almost cer
tainly be fought by labor In con
gress and that while President Wll
on might be entirely willing now
o back such legislation he might not
e in a position to do so when It
Aas proposed; Representatives of
All the carefully Wild plans of sen
ate leaders to, make possible an ad-1
Joiirnmeiit of congress late next week
vere threatened when Senator Owen
announced that he was ready to staV
here until winter to pass the bill if
republicans attempted a filibuster.
He said he would make a motion
i.o take it up as soon as the revenue
bill was passed. Ixist week demo
ratic leaders thought they had
enough votes to defeat such a mo
tion pledged from senators who de
sire an adjournment. Whether Sen
ator Owen's sensational presenta
tion of his plea for action has
changed that situation is probiematl
ce.l. Should his motion prevail, -republican
leaders say a prolonged
fight will be made on the measure,
which they insist is Impracticable
and impossible of enforcement in its
present form.
Senator owen made his announce
ment after his request for unanimous
consent to take up the bill lmmedl-
itely nfter passage of the revenue
bill had been oblected to by Senator
Smoot. When the Oklahoma Eenator
dclared the so-called lumlier trust
under the guise of medical treatment,
according to the Chihuahua local
papers today. After Villa's death. Dr.
Nodko is quoted as saying that the re
maining Villista leaders shot craps to
decide who should imjiersonate the
dead chief, and the lot fell to Colonel
Ilaca, who bears a strong personal re-
Uml.1..n,.. V'lll,, T.. I,A
7": 'i iVl ,Uri Hr",.r,.. Privileges," he said.
Baca is said to be surrounded by his ! VL00bUU0il " i"
he said, "were it not that I have de
voted four of the best years of my life,
regardless of politics, to maintaining
those ideas in the Empire State."
The nominee referred to the admin
istration's policy toward the Philip
pines. - -
"We have talked too much about our
It is now time
he brotherhoods who heard of thisfhad used a $40 000 fund against him.
ihase of the plan today were plainly
igainut It. A counter suggestion was
icard among the presidents that
trike quesilops should be left to the
nterstate entAmercc- commission with
lower to investigate and make a
ufili? report of their finding with a
trike held in abeyance pending the
n'esligatien.
The special committee's plan has
cen tentatively accepted by the com
mittee cf eight and it was the sub
)ect of today's conference at the
A'hite Ho;:se. Its substance was
"i mmunicnteil to the lalsir renre-
the situation has not been satisfactorily
adjusted. Some letters and notes teem
with language so sharp as to indicate
that the relations of the two countries
at one time approached the breaking
mint. As a Pssult of the negotiations
Sweden recently released 60.000 parcels
to Russia under agreement with the
government to submit the matter to
arbitration after the war. The British
(jovernment demanded that there be
no more Interference with traffic across
Sweden to Russia, but Sweden refused
to promise, saying it was not Included
in the original negotiations, whereupon
Ihe British government withdrew its
offer to arbitrate. The final offer of
Sweden was that she wnurfl do nothing
In retaliation for anything done by
Great Britain prior to July 24 of this
year, which was coupled with the hope
that this "conciliatory" attitude would
move Great Britain to cease Interfer
ence with Swedish mails, thus saving
Sweden from "the necessity of resort
ing to retaliation in the future.
In this last note Sweden threatened
to make the entire correspondence pub
lie should the occasion arise.
Great Britain, in her last note, signed
by Foreign Secretary Grey, said the
British offer to arbitrate would remain
open only on condition that Sweden
should continue to forward parcels he
I ween England and Russia and else
where, and otherwise carry out the
postofflce ngreement entered Into by
the two countries In 1904.
(Continued on Page Two)
o
Republicans Want
Progressives Back
In Their Ranks
i
Sentor Penrose, republican, inter-
ectetl' "it is reported that it cost
the democratic partv J l.OOD.oOO to
'Continued on Page Two)
personal bodyguard, who keep the
commorv soldiers and ranchers from
coming too near. Dr. Nodko, accord
ing to the papers, had been adminis
tering poison for three months with
th. result that Villa died shortly after
his defeat at l'arral.
A colonel, five majors, three cap
tains and nine privates belonging to
small remaining bands of rebels are
reported by General Hilario Rodriguez
to have surrendered to him in Du
rango and northern Zacatecas. The
conference was held at La Brer.a. 'tine
colonel In the case was named T".-an-ciseo
Lopez. These men left after
their surrender, said the message to
General Trevino. to bring In their com
panions under the offer of amnesty.
Not Enough Sick
SAN ANTONIO, Tex., Aug. 24. The
projected practice trip of the first
menas on tne other side had had a
proper sense of the obligations of this
government they would never had pro
posed that we scuttle out of the Phil
ippines and leave them to take care of
themselves.
"I propose that we shall have In the
administration of the Philippines the
highest standard of efficiency and fair
dealing.
"Fundamentally, the question is one
of national honor, as we took the Phil
ippines under a sacred obligation."
Of preparedness. Mr. Hughes said:
"We are not militaristic. Why, you
couldn't get up a militaristic spirit in
this country if you sent out a team of
organizers to do so. We propose, how
ever, to be ready for any emergency
and have our words taken at their full
value."
The nominee repeated his assertion
that the regular army should be large
j and efficient enough to do border duty
hospital train of the United States ' such as Is now being done by the Na'
army medical department to the field
hospital at Sam Fordyce. near Browns
ville, was abandoned today.
The ten-car train, recently brought
to San Antonio from Chicago, glisten
ing with fresli paint and varnish, was
to have brought back to the base hos
pital a load of sick soldiers. All prep
arations had been made for the trip,
which was expected to give the train a
test
Yesterday Inquiry was made at
Brownsville regarding the number of
sick at Sam Fordyce. This afternoon
word came back that there were not
enough invalids there to fill one car,
much less ten.
Prof. Rowe is Secretary
WASHINGTON, Aug. i'4. Leo S.
Rowe, professor of political economy
(Continued on Page Two)
WILL SDPPORT CARRANZAIF
COMSTITDTION IS RESTORED
Republican A. P. Leaned Wire
CHICAGO, Aug. 24. Active work to
bring all progressives in the western
states back into the republican ranki
to aid In the election of Hughes and
Fairbanks was begun today by Harold
L, Ickes of' Illinois who is In charge
of the work of organizing the pro
gressive vote at western republican
national campaign headquarters.
Within a week progressive leaders
n every state between Ohio and the"
Pacific coast will be asked to make
a detailed report on local conditions.
Where sharp difference of opinion is
found to exist between the republi
cans and progressives because of di
vision of the pat, effort toward
practical consolidation will lie made.
The tilan Is to send influential nro
gresslves! Into these Btates to act as
nertialors and bring the factions to
gether. Another Rtep planned Is to
-end well known progressive speak
ers into every district where a huge
vote was cast for RooBevelt In 1912.
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
KL PASO. Tex,, Aug. 24 The Mex
ican Nationalist League, commonly
called the "legalista" party, has prom
ised its support to Carranza providing
he restores the constitution and the
la v of Mexico, according to a state
ment made public here tonight by
local leaders of the organization. The
statement was drawn up by the head
committee, which, includes among Its
members Manuel Calero, ambassador
to Washington under President Ma
dero, and J. F. "Matron, minister of
thn interior in Madcro's cabinet.
"Carranza has 'promised to restore
the constitution and the law as soon
as peace is established, but there can
he no peace while the constitution and
the law are not restored," nys the
committee.
The members disclaim anv personal
ambition in the objects of the league,
affirming they merely wont to see it
made safe for all political refugees to
return to Mexico. .
A cavalry force of about 2r.n men
arrived in Juarez today to be distrib
uted by General Gonzales along the
borders as patrols.
A suit for fl25,flfi(i damages was
filed ngainst the Cusi Mining otim-
nanv in the state district court by
''harlea Watson and Frances Watson
for the death of their father. Charles.
Rae Watson, manger of the Cusi
mines, who was killed in tiie Santa
Ysabel massacre. The basis of their
suit, which will bring up novel points
of law, is the allegation that the
company failed to maintain proper
protection of its . employes, who on
being sent to reopen the mines were
nulled off the train and murdered by
the Pablo Lopez luind.
tional Guards and the navy adequate
to protect both coasts.
The nominee repeated his condemna
tion of "pork barrel" legislation.
"The other day I pointed the finger
of scorn at the pork barrel bills passed
under this administration," he said,
"and immediately there was a flutter of
hit birds in the halls of congress."
Mr. Hughes left at midnight for
Cheyenne, Wyo., where he will speak
tomorrow night
Mr. Hughes spoke from the pulpit
of the Mormon tabernacle, directly In
front of the great pipe organ, famed
as one of the largest .in the world.
Where usually sit the apostles of the
church just below the pulpit there sat
tonight the guests of local prominence,
regardless of political faith. These
seats were smothered with bunting and
the great elliptical balcony also was
hidden by national flags.
Republicans who arranged the meet
ing had sent invitations to a number
bf leading democrats. Simon Bamber
ger, democratic candidate for governor,
sat on the platform next to Francis SL
layman, president of the apostles of the
Mormon church. Nearby sat A. H.
Lund, first counsellor of the presi
dency of the church.
W. H. King, democratic candidate
for United States senator; Mathonihah
Thomas, democratic state chairman,
and other leading democrats were
present.
The big tabernacle was crowded and
the men at the doors were turning be
lated ones away, when the strains of
the great organ announced that Mr.
Hughes had reached the meeting.
Governor Spry, of Utah, was eimir.
I man of the meeting.
Morrison All His Life
Confidence Men 's Victim
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
CHICAGO. Aug. 24. The eccentrici
ties of Edward W. Morrison, aged re
cluse millionaire, were revealed in
Federal Judge Landis" court today m
connection with bankruptcy proceed
ings against Morrison.
Witnesses, including John Sommers.
a Jeweler, told of spending huge sums
of money for Morrison in entertain
ment, in nlleged pursuit of criminals
and catering to other whims of Mor
rison. In one case, Morrison himself ad
mitted, he had paid $3,000 to Som
mers to "send to detectives-in Scot
land Yard."
Throngs in , the court room today
were disappointed when adjournment
for the day was reached without ap
pearance on the stand of Alice and
Margaret Eurnstein, 16 and 12 years
old respectively, wards of Morrison,
whom Joseph Burnstein, their sup
posed father, testified were really
Morrison's own daughters. James R.
Ward, counsel for- the millionaire,
said tonight that Morrison had been
an easy victim of confidence men all
his life. "He has been bilked out of
hundreds of thousands of dollars by
nn organizecl gang of BWlndlers,"
Ward declared, , ' .
