mm
VOLUME 62 Number 30
PAW PAW, MICHIGAN. FRIDAY, AUGUST 25, 1916
Whole Number 4234
PRIMARY ELECTION
IS NEXHIIESDAY
Nominees for the various
political parties will
be selected on that
day
TICKETS FOR "Ml PARTIES
NOW ON THE LAST
LAP OF PAVING JOB
IMPORTANT DUTY CONFRONTS VOTERS
OF VAN BUREN COUNTY NEXT TUESDAY
The paving job il progressing. The
block and cross section on Fast Main
treat is completed, and the last lap
on West Main well under way. The
street lights for the lighting system
are also in place, and the citizens of
Paw Taw are anxiously awaiting the
completion of the whole job. When
all done, the streets of Paw Paw will
compare most favorably with any
town of twice Paw Paw's size in the
ttate. Contractor Neale understand!
his work thoroughly and is doing a
fine piece of work. City electrician
George Whitehead has charge of the
installation of the ornamental light
ing system, which insures its success.
Supt. Hungerford is Home
Supt. V. R. Hungerford who has
been taking a special course of in
struction at Columbia University this
summer arrived home Saturday. Mr.
Hungerlord expressed himselt as J
being highly pleased with the sum
mer's work, and he poks forward
with antic i pat ion to a most successful
school year at Paw Paw. From now
until opening day of the school year,
he will be busy getting all the pre
liminary work ready. The Paw Paw
schools stand second to no school in
southern Michigan.
IRDEREOIILE
DEFENDING GIRL
James L. Clement, former
ly of South Haven and
Hartford killed on the
border.
(EDITORIAL)
JUDGE KILLEFKK SHOULD BE RETURNED FOR SECOND TERM
M " CHAUTAUQUA WEEK
HOUSEHOLD GOODS ,
Only contest is for republican nom
inees Some of party ticket
re left entirely blank
The Primary election ballots are in
the hands of the township and city
officials ready for the election next
Tuesday. It was an immense job for
the printer this year. The ballots
are 9 by 15 inches in size, and there
was a total of 9,135 required for the
22 precincts in the county. Each
political party has a separate baflot,
and the number printed for each
party is as follows :--Republican
4,975; Democratic 2,950; Socialist
290; Prohibition 220; Progressive 480
and Socialist Labor 220.
The Socialist Labor and Progress
ive tickets are all blank, there being
no" nominating petitions filed on these
tickets. The Attorney General ruled,
however, that ballots must be pre
pared. The Prohibition ticket has
one candidate for Governor, United
States Senator and Lieutenant Gov
ernor, with the balance of the ticket
blank. The Socialist Labor ticket
has one candidate for each of the fol
lowing offices: Representative, Sher
iff, County Clerk, Treasurer, Regis
ter of Deeds and Drain Commission
er. The balance is blank. The dem
ocratic ticket has one candidate for
every place on the ballot except Pro
bate Judge, Prosecuting Attorney and
Road Commisioner for four years and
two years.
The Republican ticket is what made
business for the printer. There are
five candidates for Governor and
Lieutenant Governor. This necess
itated five changes in the arrange
ment of names for every precinct, so
that no two consecutively numbered
ballots have the same, arrangement of
names. All tickets have three col
umns, arranged as follows: We also
give herewith names of candidates on
Republican ticket. First column,
United States Senator William II.
Hill and Charles F. Townsond; Gov
ernor, (ierritt J. Diekema, Washing
ton Gardner, Prank B. Leland, Albert
E. Sleeper and Sy brant Wessolius;
Lieutenant Governor, Frank P. Bohn,
Luren D. Dickinson, W illiam D. Gor
don, David E. Heineman and Robert
Y. Ogg; Representative in Congress,
Edward L. Hamilton and John C.
Ketcham; State Senator, Barrel
Tripp; Representative, Lynn J. Lewis
Second Column: Judge of Probate,
Earl L. Burhans and William Killefer
Sheriff, Gladstone Beattie; County
Clerk, Royal E. Decker; Treasurer,
Albert 0. Duncombc; Register of
Deeds, Harry W. Showerman; Pros
ecuting Attorney, Horace H. Adams
and Cassius M. Van Riper; Circuit
Court Commissioners, Bret H.
Cockett and Oran W. Rowland; Cor
oners, James P. Mohler and Frank C.
Thompson; County Surveyor, Warren
H. Goss; Drain Commissioner, Chas. "
F. Ashley. Death of Mrs. Elmer Brown
Third Column: Road Commission- Mrs. Elmer Brown passed away at
er for Six Years, Geo. A. Dillenbeck; ! her home in East Arlington, August
Road Commissioner for Four Years, 15, aged 48 years. 2 months and 7
Charles N. Converse and Robert H.I days. Her maiden name was Nellie
Tripp; Road Commissioner for Two May Gault, and she was bom in Ber
Years, Benjamin Clark, Hayes Dis-jrien county, near Niles. She was
brow and Jesse G. Wiles; Delegates marred to Elmer Brown February
to County Convention. Each ballot i 14, HX)6. To this union one daugh
contains the requisite number of lines' tor was born. She was a faithful
for delegates to the county conven- j wife, a loving mother and sister and
tion. These may be written in by the an obliging friend. By her pleasing
voter in the booth or the names manner, she won the respect and
pasted on as he may desire, and is as kindly feeling of all who knew her.
James L. Clement, formerly a
South Haven boy, lost his life while
defending a Mexican girl at Browns
ville, Texas. He was a Corporal in
the "Warrington Rifles" of Warring
ton, Virginia, and was with his com
pany on the border. He was pass
ing a house in the Mexican quarter
of the city, and heard a woman
scream, rushing in to her defense, he
found Carl Dunches a United States
soldier, tiring a revolver at a pretty
Mexican girl with whom he was in
fatuated. As he entered the room,
Punches whirled and shot at Clement,
the bullet entering his heart and kill
ing him instantly. The girl was
struck bv one of the bullets but will
recover. Dunches was captured a
few hours later.
Clement was born in South Haven
and spent the early years of his life
in that city. His parents reside in
Decatur, as does also a sister, Mrs.
George Pomeroy. He lived several
yean in Hartford, and married there.
His wife was formerly Miss Dora
Brown The unfortunate man, who
lost hi life in the discharge of his
duty, was 28 years of age. He was
well known throughout Van Buren
county, and had many friends here
who were shocked to learn of his un
timely death. The funeral services
and interment were at South Haven.
important as any other part of the
ballot.
Every elector will be given a ticket
of their political cheies as he may
call for it of election inspector. He
will take it to the booth and place a
cross in the square before the name
The funeral services and burial were
held at East Arlington last Thurs
day, Rev. I. P. Bates officiating.
Knot is Securely Tied
On Thursday evening of last week
Miss Flov Ball became the bride of
of the man for whom he desires to ' ,.Mson narris0n. The ceremonv was
performed at the home of Mrs. Olivia
J. C. Woodman, who tied the knot in
the most approved manner. The
True Northerner joins in congratulations.
vote. The ballot should be studied
cte fully, that no mistakes are made.
, io ballot states directly under the
title of the office just how many
names in that list should be voted.
This is the largest Primary ballot
ever printed in Van Buren county,
and each voter can express his choice
for very office, if he will get posted
before attempting to vote his ticket.
Mrs. Vivian Miller of Charlotte is
the guest of her sister Mrs. Laverty.
Funeral at Jackson
A telegram, Saturday evening
(ailed Lev. C. H. Heaton to Jackson,
Michigan Sunday to officiate at the
funeral of a friend there. He re
turned to Paw Taw early Monday
morning.
I
s
I
:..v I
Mrs. Estel Stark Brown, of Lake
Brownwood (Pugs ley's Fake), Is off- Location satisfactory, good
ering an oi ner nousenom goods and
furniture for sale. She has sold her
property at the lake, and expects to
leave some time in the fall. She has
a list of articles which she is offering
at prices that should sell them
promptly. The True Northerner of
last week contained an advertise
ment of these goods in which two Rachel's Metropolitan Singers and Ned
emus were made, and which we now Woodman today and the great
desire to correct. One, a six piece Victors Band tomorrow
living room set, upholstered in Ax- i
minster rugs is offered for $65.00 and The chautauqua has held full sway
is a real bargain. I he other was an ; m Paw Paw since last Saturdav
weather, good crowds
and strong programs
all pleasing
STRONG PROGRAMS 10 CLOSE
Next Tuesday, August 20, is Primary Election day, and if ever in
the history of Van Buren county, the republicans had an important
duty to perform, it is at that time. That day will determine whether
one of the most faithful, capable and efficient public servants who
ever occupied an official position in the court house is to be rewarded
with the time honored and well established custom of a second term,
or whether he is to step down and out to make place for a younger
man, who has already been on the pay roll of Van Buren county
for a period of eight years (practically every day since his graduation
from college) four years as Deputy Prosecutor, and four years as
Prosecutor, and who now is asking to be continued on the same pay
roll for a period of eight years more, and withoui'any loss of time.
That day will determine whether the republicans are sincere in
their urgent invitation and solicitation for the Progressives of four
years ago to return to the old party, that a united front might be
presented to the common enemy (the democrats) this fall, is sincere
and genuine, or whether it ia a crime politically for a man to have
been elected on that ticket, and for which he ll to luffer repudiation
and humiliation at the hands of the old party.
That day will determine whether the republicans of Van Buren
county will permit the Sheriff's force, together with the Prosecutor
and some others, to dictate the nominee ot this important office this
term, as well as name the "slate" in all other county offices two years
hence, and perhaps indefinitely, or whether justice will prevail and
every man will be given a square deal and candidates for office be
nominated on their merit.-.
In determining this important question at the Primaries next
Tuesday, the republicans of the county are confronted with one ques
tion, and only one; that g,-IS THFRF ANY JUST AND SUF
FICIENT REASON WHY JUDGE KILLEFER SHOULD BE RE
PUDIATED BY THE REPUBLICANS OF THIS COUNTY?
One argument advanced by Mr. Burhans as a reason why he
should be nominated is "That he is an attorney", and Judge Killefer
is not. To those who know the comparative qualifications of the
two candidates, no further arguments are necessary. To those who
do not, the fact that there has never been a criticism on the admin
istration of Judge Killefer, that never a single decision in his court
has been rev rsed by a higher court and that those who have had bus
iness in that office have always been able to find him there during
business hours, should be sufficient for a decision on that point.
Another argument advanced by Mr. Killefer! opponent is "That
Mr. Burhans has always boon a republican". That fact is not dis
puted, although it will be remembered that four years ago, Mr.
Burhans and those who now are the most active in his campaign,
were ardent Roosevelt supporters, and without doubt were as much
responsible for the conditions that resulted in the revolt after the
National convention, as any other men in the county. They did not
leave the party, however, for it will also be remembered that Mr.
Burhans was a candidate on the republican ticket and the present sher
iff was then undersheriff to a republican nominee. But even then, Mr.
. Burhans has been well rewarded. Light years of rcpubl icanism, with
eight years on the pay roll of Van Buren county.
Mr. Burhans states in his announcement that Mr. Killefer was
UNTIL RECENTLY a 'democrat. That statement is misleading.
The facts are, Judge Killefer enrolled as a republican six years ago.
Prior to that time he had been a democrat. He did not leave the
democratic party to seek office as has been charged against him, but
for other, and to his mind, sufficient reasons. Four years ago
(two jreafl after having enrolled as a republican) he was urged to
accept a nomination for Probate Judge on the Progressive ticket,
by prominent republicans all over fhe county, for reasons which the
True Northerner does not care to discuss at this time. After due
consideration and reflection, he did accept the nomination and was
elected on that ticket. There is no Progressive party now, and Judge
Killefer in common with at least 91 per cent of former Progressives
have returned to the Republican party. He believes, as do those of
his party who know his worth to the county, that his record during
the past four years as Probate Judge, his faithfulness and service
rendered during that time, entitle him to another term in that office.
(CONTINUED ON PAGE FOUR)
item in which five cots, including one
cot mattress is offered for $5.00.
The item read two cots in the adv.
Among the items offered for saleare
a Hallet-Davis Piano for $200.00; En
cyclopedia Britannica, 25 volumes,
night, when the largest crowd that
ever attended an opening chautau
qua night here was in attendance.
The crowds all the week have been
exceptionally good, and this will with
out doubt be the most successful
full Morroco binding for $65.00 and a 'chautauqua from every standpoint
fine Racine Canvas Canoe for $15.00. ever held here. The location is a
These are only a few of the many new one, and in a way might be called
bargains Mrs. Brown has to otter, an experiment. All previous chau-
Anyone in need of anything in house
hold goods or furniture would do well
to see her.
Mrs. Brown is also making delic
ious home made canned products, in-
tauquas have been held at Thayer's
"Riverside", while this one is in the
center of the village, on the old court
house grounds. The new location
seems to give universal satisfaction.
GE E III
AT
SAINT JOSEPH
eluding marmalades, jellies and jams however, and it is quite likely that
which she is selling to the public at ! the future chautauquas in Paw Paw
reasonable prices. Pure unadulterated will be held down town,
fruits and sugar are used and every The programs have all been satis
product is guaranteed. factory. Some numbers of course,
m , m have been stronger than others, but
i taking it all together, it has been
most satisfactory. The great and
wonderful Helen Keller drew the
largest attendance, there being over
1400 single admission tickets sold on
that day.
J The "Junior chautauqua" in charge
of Miss Thomas has made a hit with
;the little folks, and is a most pleas
ing and satisfactory innovation in
The officers of
people. Gov. Ferris and !Junior Town" wm introduced to
u the audience on Tuesday night. Mas-
Hamilton to attend. ter George Enley has the honor of
being Mayor, Edward Xash Chief
. m , , Policeman and VYvnn VYakeman, Com-
With the present favorable weather , , '
.... ... missioner. Mr. Grant who has
conditions, the committee in charge
. j t u r iw charge ot the equipmen t spends a
of the grand Labor Day celeb ra- , J , 1 ... "
. . . , . : forenoon hour in plav with the boys.
tion in Saint Joseph on Monday, , . . .
a . ... - . . Everything has been done by the
September 4th, now entertain the be- ; fe .
u r il i i n onnnn .a chautauqua management, that it is
lief that not less than 20,000 people 1 tR . ...
... , , possible to do, to make this chau-
will gather at the popular lake resort ' Z
Li i u . u w i;ni itapqua a banner one.
to help celebrate th big national 11
. .. . We regret that time and space will
holidav event. V , .
i cr 4. not permit us to give a compicie re-
Ihat Saint Joseph offers many at- . . , .
view ot me various programs, oui it
Big Labor Day event ex
pected to bring 20,000 chautauqua work
osepl
tvnotlAm; li r r cfnrnv t.f sinmmer
, 1 ! 1 1 n 1 1 1 it quite impossible this week,
guests, is an established fact. Lake ' 1
, , j . , ...j f I he program for the closing days
Michigan has provided bathing tor - ,
.. . , .. , are exceptionally good and will un
thousands ot people during the past , .TjTj Iu i . a c
I .AI , , doubted v draw the largest crowds of
tew weeKs, ana
with seasonable
largest
tka ....-.1, TUIl- nCfoimiwin if n nYi r 1 'a
,, ,, . M Ml lilt "I l . 1 I I I r (ll ItllU'l'll 1CH1III7
weather, thousands ot people will
. . . . . Metropolitan Singers and Miss Helen
again take advantage of this except- . , x, , ... iL
. , e , a Smith in concert, and Ned Woodman,
lonal treat of bathing, dancing, skat- . , . m.m .
. . ,. Tan d u the great cartoonist and humorist.
ing and bowling at Silver Beach on . . ,
.This evening a grand concert by Ka-
Labor Day. chel'i Metropolitan singers. Tomor
Ihe committee purpose in provid- k j , M , rA
. row. the closing day, we have the
ing an interesting program oi many , . , ,
. . , 7r . i fcLJl Treat Victor a Florentine band, both
events to e ntertain the people on that .. ...
tt r xt n I A c afternoon and evening. I hose will
day. Hon. W. N. 1 rns, (.overnor of
. , , a be great programs. I on t mis-
Michigan and Hon. L. L. Hamilton, . ? ,
the closing number.-.
Congressman of the rourth Con- m , m
gressional District, have been ex- j (irt.at Auto ,),rbv Tomorrow
tended invitations to speak. I Rnnua AjltomobUi Derby
The present arrangement plans R(,crcation p, Kal-
provide for re-districting the beauti- nuwlw nffpr
V , . . ... , T amazoo, tomorrow, Satuula atter
ful lake front into a grand Japanese . , El,r;nn M9mmA. fnr
Gish Garden where hundreds of Jap
the 100 mile event, and such "dare
money.
lanterns with electric lamps will ill-dTijM driTW1 M I)ario Resta Billie
luminatc the pan (luring me evening. Andy Birtf B. Qstewig and
'Professional Japanese out of door DePalma will literally
I acts will be given from platform ("Bum Up" the track in an effort to
! The grandest display of feature fire boQon ()f and the
works ever staged in the nistory 01
the city will be given at night.
Free street acts will be staged dur- - -
ing the afternoon and evening. Two Yttcrinar Association
Well known professional bands will' Dr. W. J. Johnson left Monday for
furnish music forenoon, afternoon Detroit, where he will attend the in
and evening. International Veterinarians associa
I The big celebration will close with tion. The Doctor always attends these
a grand patriotic band concert. meetings to keep abreast of the times
j If you wish to keep cool and be and posted in all lines of his profess
well entertained, visit St. Joseph, the ion. He w ill be absent several days.
Coney Island of the west, located on
the historical bluff orerlootog Lake s We for Mr y
Muh.gan, on Labor Day, September (, y ftnfety js at ottawa
the 4th, 1016. Illinois tor ten days of chautauqua
Iwork. This is Mr. Varney's third
Brighten Up Bit I 0H il Ottawa, and the chautau-
The post office quarters are under- ! qua management at that place would
going repairs this week. The walls simply not take "No" for an answer.
and ceiling are receiving a coat of
paint, and new burlap adorns the
walls of the lobby. F. R. Hess is the
artist.
Stork Still Busy
The State Health department re
ports .'J.TIT deaths and 7,283 births in
Michigan during the month of July.
This is nearly two to one in favor of
the Stork.
Three consecutive seasons in the
same place speaks mighty well for
any chautauqua worker.
Varneys are Moving
The Varney bungalow is about
completed. This attractive home is
situated on the high bluff at the west
side of Maple lake and is a little
beauty. The Varneys are moving
this week.
