. ' ,ir. , , j ' ; j. . J. ....... r:..-:., ""'"I
1 til
FAIR DATES: Harlan-September 21 and 22. Rose Lodge-September 22 and 23. Eddyville-October 11
TOLEDO, LINCOLN COUNTY, OREGON, FRIDAY, AUGUST 25th, 1916
NUMBER 27
VOLUME 24
Wincoln
NEWPORT like a starfish, his eyes bugged
out like a scared rabbit and he
Judge Wolverton of the Fed- trembied like an aspen leaf,
eral Court of Portland, came in Morali don-t iean t00 far out
Friday to spend his vacation at from the wharf .
Newport. The Judge had been f Tne sunday excursion train
holding court in New York. He brought in over two hundred
is registered at the Abbey. passengers. The weather con-
C. W. James, one of the assis- tinue8 fine and the beaches are
tant Secretaries of the United thronged with people. The
States Senate, Washington, D. talker band cheers the crowds
C, has come to spend his vaca- with It8 spieniitl music, "Music"
tion with his family who live at lt ,8 Baid,"hath charms to sooth
Newcort. Mr. James was sup- th. Rnvaea breast". A great
erintendent of the Penitentiary many prominent ministers are
for nine years under Governors taklng thelr vacation at Newport
nmnne rnein we iiulc, ivcv,
Days You'll Never Forget
Haines, Baptist minister of Mc
M'nnville and Rev. Leech. Meth
odist pastor of the First Meth
odist Church at CorvalliB, and
Rev. Tayldr of Albany.
Peonle who saw ana neara
WoRt nnd Chamberlain
n w Williamson and his
"brother, T. B., and their families
from Corvallis came over to
spend a couple of weeks at Ore
gon's popular resort. They are
delighted with Newport with its
varied and attractive Burround- cha8 gveng Hughes, candidate
1ngs. Mr. Williams is a member fop Presldent ln Portland, say
v, cmincll nt Corvallis .I... U- t i V.o
iuc vvj . tliat lie IS a gieai man auu umi
and a candidate for county com- he received such an ovation from
missioner on the Republican the peopie Df Portland as no
ticket. His motto is, if he should otner Cjtizen has ever received,
"be elected, that every dollar ex- 0ver 12,000 people were to hear
pended by the County Court for hlm ln the great auditorium and
County purposes, shall represent thousands had to be turned
an equal amount of benefit; will away fDr want 0f room. He
give due consideration to griev- Will if eiected. and I think he
ances regardless of political affll- wlu be make a great President,
lations or station in life. In the H(8 8peeches sound like a man
matter of building county roads, of deep thought and a states,
either with crushed rock or man and not the effusions
other material, I believe in the of a coiiege or university prof
principal of pay as you go, issue ie88or
no bonds and keep out of debt.
Mrs. J. B. Horner and her two i . .
daughters and her mother, Mrs. , ONA
E. Skipton, came ln Friday and j
went to Waldport, from there Mr. and Mrs. Geo. Selby tran
i ...in tn whoainrk Vnlla nnot ed business In Toledo Friday.
Will ftW W T .W .. " - -
and Drift Creek, where Prof. . Mrs. L. M. Commons who has
Horner has been stopping for a been quite poorly for sometime
-week getting ready and fixing left for the Hot Springs near
camp for the family when they Carson, Washington, Friday,
arrive He had been catching Mrs. Agnes GatenB and chll
Bome fine mountain trout In dren are visiting at the Ryan
Dr7t Creek which is fine sport, home on South Beaver.
This Is one of the finest Btreams I Clifford Phelps made a trip to
in the country ln which to catch .Toledo, Saturday,
mountain trout. This Is the old i C. M. Myers left for the Valley
hunting and fishing grounds of Thursday,
the Alsea Indians. The moun- j Fred and Clarence Cook were
four trading at Wlnant Wednesday.
t-hnnonnH foot and are covered I A. W. and W. C. Weber made
with a heavy growth of stand- a trip to Toledo Wednesday,
timhpr Here the roar of the cat-i Mr. and Mrs. A. H. Phelps
racts may be heard as the water and daughter, Helen visited at I
IIOWB over uie man; - o - v
j .1 - ,mntni on thov Snndn v
rise and seem to lean against Mr. and Mrs. H. J. Wood were
the blue sky, makes the most visitors at Newport Sunday,
beautiful found ln the Coast ! Mr. W. C Weber, Mrs Agnes
Range of mountains. Here Mr. Catena and children and Miss
Horner being of a literary turn Florence Wood called on Mrs.
of mind can associate with the J. M. Bowers of Upper Beaver,
muses and write some of his , r riday,
- v i iV. cue d X.
f roRCOf To I tmw -!T
u Mv plP V Soft j
The F'R-ST
Boat Ecuiz.'SionJ
OF Trie fcM'OrJ
tion with this fair this year, con
test will be held under the rules
of the Woman's Home Compan
ion. The Better Babies contest
is a popular yet scientific move
ment to insure better Dames ana
a better race. It consists of en-
lerillg, exu.Iil.limg aim oaiuiu6
prizes to childrtn of five years
or less on exactly the same basic
principals that are applied to live
stock shows mere beauty does
not count physical and mental
development only are consider
ed. The Wetter uaoies coniesx.
Insures a better race of Ameri
cans because it teaches parents
how to improve the physical con
dition or children already oorn
and to protect those yet unborn.
It arouses interest in tne con
servation of child life and health
and in all forms of child wel
fare. It forges a connecting
link between parents and teacl
er8 between the home and the
scientific study of the commun
ity. So parents wishing to enter
their babies in this contest, Bend
their name and age to b. i .
J.oudon, Eddyville, and they
will be entered. There win ;v
two medals awarded, one to the
champion boy and one to tne
champion girl and there will be
diplomas awarded aiso, so sena
in the name a.:d age of your
baby and help to make this pr.rt
of the fair a success. . I lie oses
of babies In this contest will be
from niv months to three years
There will be a doctor ln attend
ance and a good warm room for
ho hnhlPB no babv vill be
tmrrPfl of the above ace.
There will be amusements lor
old and young all day long, no
ldti moments, so come and
Bpend the day where? at Ed
dyville when? Oct. ii, isi'i.
PORT DREDGE
LINCOLN SOLD
The port dredger Lincoln, built
by the Port of Toledo some five
or six years ago, has been sold to
the Gardiner Mill Co.. of Gardi
ner, Oregon, ror tne sum or
$5500.00. 0. P. Hensdale man
ager of the company making the
purchase.
The dredge ia being gotten
ready for sea and it will be some
time before it leaves the bay.
The Company expects to send
their own tug here to tow it
down the coast.
Roy Walker and Bob Mann ex-ner-t
to remain with the dredge
for a time and will have charge
of the operation or tne same.
The dredge has finished it3
usefulness to the local Pprt hav
ing finished the work for which
it was built.
Thursday, all report a Jolly time.
. Miss Francis Hedengren from
Omaha, Nebr., came ln Tuesday
evening for a visit at the Christ-
LITTLE ELK
ORTON '
Harvest time Is here again
E. T. Raddant Is planing on
Threshing Saturday
Ned Evans went to Nashville
ennen home
flows over the many rocky falls the King home at Oyster City port l8 a visitor at the King frienda and relatives here for a Nortons returning Monday.
, . . . , A. , Sunday to get his threshing en
Pretty cold nights these, for ojr 6
summer. w M pvnipr mnH a triD
Mr. and Mrs. Virgil Loudon of r,
Woodburn, Ore., are visiting MlB8 scullen spent Sunday in
SILETZ INDIAN
FAIR ATTRACTS
Tml.iv la the last dav of the
Silntz Indian Fair and will mark
the completion of another suc
cessful fair. President Walter
Hall and the other members of
the fair board have worked hard
to see that all visitors were roy
ally entertained while at the
Fair, and their labors have not
been In vain. The Indian drama,
Hiawatha" Is one of the pleas
ing features, and much credit
is due Mr. II. R. VeVoo, ror tno
successful staging of this In
tricate play.
Concerts dally hy tne urana
Ronde Indian band have lent
much of the enjoyment of the
fair.
The Feather and other dances
staged by the Indians are a won
der to all and never fail to at
tract a crowd. The Indian cur
ios, lead and basket Woric tire
n.nrvflB in the work of arl:. while
the large corn, pumpkins, spuds,
etc., attest tnat tne inaian is aiso
there with the goods wheu IJ
comes to the White Man's art.
A eood attendance has been
had from Toledo, Newport and
all parts of the county as well
as a great many from the Valley.
moist hpnntlful thoughts. Here
the redman sat and communi
cated with the Great Spirit and
here, no doubt in ages past he
chanted the death song, gave the
home this week.
UPPER BEAVER
Peter Peterson snent Thurs
day at the K. D. Martin nome.
war whoop, dug up tne toinii.a- bo(, d
hawk and went on ' Jbe warpath tln Tfie mu'slc w fine be
m km mid Rcaln his enemies. .
Here in his solitude iyou can R D a r0f Newport.
Btuuy nature In all her beauty , & aUelde(1
and grandeur. Th s Is an .nter- f rom New,,ort and Toiedo
cstlng country, an inspiration . Trace IIuilt8Ucker and War.
The Misses Montgomery, El-'ence Beauchanip departed for
sia and Lottie, nlece3 of Mrs. J. unknown parts Saturday morn
II. Blair, came in from Prinvllle jng
to spend a week at the sea-shore. corden and Henry Emerson
nicy uiuiuicu ujr aj u. ,iv. i..- returucu irom wasningion,
ern California, one of the girls 'Wednesday evening where they
driving. These young ladies are win niake a two week visit with
teachers in the public Bchool, reiatives and friends. They are
bought the Ford with their own poking for Gene most any night,
money, drove the car themselves i jjr. and Mr8, May of Portland,
and had their own camping out- iand iittie 8on are visitors at the
fit and traveled at small ex-1 former's mother's,
pensc. These young ladles will j Mr8 Mi G shermer and chil
vislt. friends in the Valley after :dren departed for the Valley Sat
whlch they will return to their jurday 00n where she will visit
jiume ui i iiuTmc.
Tuesday at the Odd Fellows
Hall at the close of the Rebekah
meeting, II. D. Blakely and Mrs
week or bo. wni. Porter left for Falls City
Mrs. Dr. Griff and party of Tuesday morning taking with
friends of Portland are ha vine him E. M. Haley, from there Mr.
an outing and vacation on Little 1 Haley will go to Carleton, Oreg.,
Elk for the paBt few days, re- where he will teacn tne nign
tunied home Tuesdav his son. school thin winter.
ij nv iuc n. u. ihbi uu uuuic. 'mcnara win stay wun inenus me i oner laiiiuy icii
TTAttM. riavcnn uiqq trial, Incy In ' In Pnrtlanrl U'htln 14 O la awav I ilmf mMtllncr fnV Sllllfih'llP W ll OTP
llCltl J XJIIICI own nao dialling i . 1 11 a vi uauu nunc w ma n"jt uaj ijivi ii.iif-, .v.
Vila vln'nltv tho first nt tha uroolr ' Mr Hnvnlnn la loo vine Mr Mnaa ! Ihav will nick liprrlos
Alma fnv vittltprl Alolhn and in chnreo of his ulnco.
WINANT Alpha Rhoades Thursday after-j Mr. South of Dallas ha3
Tho dnnrp crlvpn Wpdnesuav uuuul ou uurus ui iuiiu uu mu-
jwuru 11 luca, i. uuntu imnu m alm i8 Biasnmg aim clearing
PVIrlnv HJ it - I.. . - U..I1.I HfM
...viuj. U1IU (,CI.IIIIK I I'UU J IU UUIIU. 1II.
The dairy Inspector was In south Bays Little Elk is good
our vicinity Friday. j enough for him.
A Peterson and son reter. Rlr Rothrock is slashing
made a trip to Newport Satur- hrmh for Mr -John8on on the old
lay,- ... I Bretherson place. We are glad
Gordon and Lorenzo Lmerson ;t0 gRe M JohnBO improving
visited at the liuntsucker ranch ;th,8 proi)erty ab It can be made
Saturday. iu uat rnnoKaa i ti.a
. . i uhv, v me uini i uiivuvo lift mu
Mr. and Mrs Rhoades and n of th t
children. Floyd. Mrgle and Hilda, T. o .nn . nf
visited at the U. K. Lewis noma j, "' " " '
Sunday iiaiiie rjinerB weiu 10 iewpuri
FOUND
Indies brooch or pendent.
Owner can have same by calling
at this otllce.
Jess Gywnn of Toledo called'011 'f"1 Sunday's excursion all
at the A. Peterson home Sunday.
l'eter I'eterson was a Newport
visitor Sunday
went for a eood time and from
the reports they had It.
The clatter of the selfblnder
her sister. Mrs. Deb Foliett
One and all from this vicinity
were pleasure seekers at New
nort Rnnrittv.
Mary Batchman, with a few In-1 The Winant correspondent Is
vlted rriendB, were unneu in not worrying as mucn as tne
marriage, Rev, B. C. Black, pas- jlttle bird from Toole Slough
tor of the Baptist Church offlcl-1 thlnka he is but we will all for
atlng. The happy couple, after 'get the past so be looking for a
upending a few days at the Bea- jolly bunch Saturday, to the plc
Bhore, will take up their resl- nic and dance,
dence at Grants Pass. Their I Mr. and Mrs. Dick Huntsuck
many friends wish them happl- er called at the Chrlstensen
ncBB and prosperity through life. Jiome Sunday.
Uncle Sam Iloughten. while Mr. and Mrs. Phelps and
fishing on Lee William's wharf, daughter, Helen, of Ona, were
lost his balance and fell into the .guests at the King home Sun
bay, going clear under. He .day.
rame up and was nsnea oui uyi vimum wun m uui nnm;
Frank Fogarty and August Blat- Saturday, MIrb Violet King ac
ner Aside from a little fun for .companled him home,
the bystanders, no harm was I MIsb Gladys King wqnt to
done He is not the first man Newport Tuesday for a visit
that has fell In the bay. Though with relatives.
n. n a lt man ne wua uiu n.o menu
m... t hi i)n...oro o..,l irnn,!- Is hcinir licnrd !ti this vicinltv
.Kin. a. 11. uunia atiu biiu- i " ...
daughter, Alma, called at the land soon the hum of the thresh-
Peterson home Sunday. ier win do nearu, un: dui mere
Alctha and Alpha Rhoades and 1 is no Joy so Joyful as the Joy of
Allnn onrl Man 1 I II 11 1tnt or 11'nrO 1 faFlll life.
guests at the P. Vancil ranch I There was a farewell party at
Sunday. uoynton last Saturday
rVnllno otwl llootor Pnloronn PVPIllnff BH Hal Is ETOlnfF ftWBV.
IJf (llliiu uiiu M iviiivi viv. i i-uii 0 trt a
called on Alma Cox Monday , We are sorry to loose him as he
afternoon. - :s very puunc spirited anu ue
ii n Ti,niwioa nmi fnnillw ! llpvcd in hooHtinir hm com mu n
.a. v.. ..i.v'i.viu ui.li iHiiiiij i n
were cueHtn at the Peterson , Ity, Lincoln County and Oregon,
ranch Mnml.iv ovcnlnp- but We long for the time
Jlmniie liuntsucker Is cuttlnz
wood for J. M. Bowers.
I. N. Huyett, T. liuntsucker,
when Hal will come back and
help ua boost. This party was
given to show our friendship and
and K. D. Martin and daughter to let Hal know he was appre
. . .. . rnl en
Beared.' lie -clung to the piling 1 ed the Indian fair at Slletz, Tuesday.
wpro Newnort vifiltors Tuesday.
Cordon rJmerson is working at
the Peterson ranch.
Mrs. J. M. BowerB, Alma Cox,
and Evalina and Hester Peter
son called on Mrs. Rhoades and
daughters Wednesday.
II. O. Khoaden and son, r ioya,
made a trip to Toledo Wednesday.
Henry and Lorenzo Emerson
visited at the Peterson home
elated. There were 50 friends
and nelehhom from Eddwilla
and Little Elk present so good
iuck nai, is the wmn or an
Hurrah for the Eddyville
fair. As the time draws nearer
tho morn pnthiifllnRm Ir shown
and all communities and every
oi.e else Is working to ma he th
i(I(lwlllA fnlf a miccpRfc and
when all are Inturested It Is sure
to be a success. There will be a
Better Baby conteBt In connec
The tinner Farm School In
district CO Is completed and Is
one of the best scliooi Duiidings
in Lincoln County. E. M. Haley,
luillilcr. left for his home in
Falls City.
Thp Basket Social which was
hold in the new school building
ixna well attended and a fine
dance in the evening.
Mr r.eo. Cox and daughter
were Newport vistors last week.
I .onnnrrl Evana returned home
from Ixiwer Farm where he has
been working on the rond.
Mr. J. L. Walker has been on
the Blck list the past few days
Miss C. Scullln was visiting
the Porter family of Nortons,
last Friday, returning Monday
ripnprni H. Ii Pratt, taken
nrmiml lv Alfred Iane and R.
DePoe, was visiting nil the
homos of the Indians Tuesday
and found that they were living
tho annio ah the whites are. all
doing well and capable of doing
their own work.
Tho n'nio theatre In making
firrnncpnipiitfl to run the Charlie
Chapln funny reels, the first In
stallment of which will prouauiy
be run Saturday nlgnt.
r.n to thov Water Front Mar
ket for your fresh Yanutna Bay
finlmnn The CllltlOOKB are
now running and I am getting
some fine fish.
J. L Demitt, Prop,
A T. Peterson brought ln a
now 1017 model Ford last Sun
day and sold tho same yesterday
to Ralph I'epin. ftir. repin nav
tne sold hla car to Brinton Bry
ant. Mr. Peterson went to Port
land again yesterday for a new
car.
CHURCH NOTES
Tho Sneclal Meetincs at the
M. E. Church eloped wlih Sun
day night's servici). A largo
congregation wu-j nrcsftit.
A series of four htinuay cven-
irgs sermons on "Character
Types", as Interpieu il by great
authors, will begin Sunduy AUg-
utt 27. Sermon topics lor next
Sunday:
Mornlnir service. "IliiTW out
the Life-line; evening, "Our dual
Nature." the type: "Dr. Jekyii
and Mr. I lyde
Mr. Hardesty who has visited
the Sanioan Islands, talked with
the natives and spen the grave or
Robert Louis Stevenson, the
author, has been dsked to give a
short introductory talk.
Tho hoi' al c ven by the ladies
of the Church Tuesday was well
patronized.
Choir nraotice will be nem at
the church this week.
The senson for Crawi'onls and
Elbert nn will he short the ex
treme hot weather ripening them
unusually fast.
If vou can't come and select
them, nhone your order, we will
send you fine Fruit.
P. Frederick.
A larce number of people from
this vicinity, some 31 In all.
went to Newport on a picnic last
Sunday. Those coins were S.
E. Rorf and wife, J. II. Sugg and
ranilly, Miss Wirt, Miss Sugg,
Mr. and Mrs. Chas. Boeckman.
Mrs. I less and family, MIbu
Perry, Miss Grlel, Mr. and Mrs.
Carl Nelson, Butler Bros., Mrs.
Mork. R. W. and R. J. Wollaa
and family, G. W. Byers and
family, and Mrs. Wadsworth and
daughter. Several of the party
auioea to me ngnmouco.
