9
THE WEATHER
MR. MERCHANT.
An ad In The Bugle will bring buyer
and seller together.
Tonight and Saturday, fair.
VOL XXX. NO. 197.
BRYAN, TEXAS, FRIDAY, AUGUST 25, 1916.
PRICE M-CO PER ANNUM
faffe
Ike
AND PILOT
Engkui
8111
Crisco
Is pore and wholesome
and keeps well in warm
weather.
FRESH STOCK
Hardy Newton
Amii r unpn nriniirn
HHHAH
OUTSKIRTS OF LOfltl
GERMANS TO MAKE
F
IFTH
war
LOAN
STRIKE
SITUATION
Rata to Be Five Per Cent and Price
98, a Reduction Over the La it
leeue.
STILL HANGS FI
Further Conferercee Being Held Be
tween the President and Repre
aenUtlvee of Both Sidee. .
The Big Zeppelins From Germany igain Raided
England, Dropping Many Bombs and More
Than Forty Were Killed and Injured One of
the Great Monsters of the Sky Reached the
Very Outskirts of the City of London The
French and British Both Made Gains on the
" French Front Russia Reports Gains Against
the Turks and the Evacuation of an Important
Turkish City.'
Pat-A-Cake
A Prepared CAKE FLOUR, nothing to add
' water Phone us about it. v
Reid Bros.
London, Aug. 25. (Bulletin) '
Eight people were killed and thirty
alx Injured In a Zeppelin raid last
night, when hundrede of Mobe were
dropped. It wae officially announced
.today that one Zeppelin reached the
. n - . -.-... t.. t I
(By Anoolatrd Press.) Waehlngton. Aug. 25. I'resiaeni ,
London, Aug. 25. Arrangements Wilson summoned me represent- w iummtty.
bare been completed for the flotation Uvea of the employers and the era- J MAon Aug 2r, The
of the fifth Germain war loan. Annioves Involved in tne wreaienea .... ... , 4l,. i k ... 1
!""' . suae warenouse
French
U
WILL
NOTIFY
MM
WAREHOUSE DEPT
L
1
COQPfRATE
State Warehouae Marketing Depart'
ment Will Cooperate With Ex
tenelon Department of College.
STORM BE IS
u
REPAIRED
(By Aaaoclated Irs.,
Auatln, Tex. Aug. 25. The SUte
warehouae and marketing department
i will cooperate this cotton season
By September First Storm Damage
at Corpue Chrlstl Will Be Re
paired Except Along Beach.
(Ft Jsaoclated hml
Corpus Chrlstl, Tel. Aug. 25. By
September 1st. It waa aald today,
there will be nothing 'visible to show
that Corpus Chrlstl passed through
I with the Extension Department of, one of tne wor, iinMln U his
the Agricultural and Mechanical Col- durlnK tn9 gtorm of August 1?
lege of Texas In the expert classirt-. . nd 19 n, m k. nothlnf left.
except vacant spaces on the bead .
front, to show bow $500,000 damage
Exchange Telegraph dlspatdh from railroad strike to the White House
Maiirnnm Yesterday were followed br T.ii.....n. . eantamhor nth It
Th """!!. Ah! t"'""" German counter attack i. L ,nnounced today. . has speak-
.u-u w.m.u.r u.. . ...- ... )POBU,. w ii ii u ... B,ght pBrl cUmg todajr tne 0er. en.a.ements at Winchester. Ky.,
SHALL SEPT. 8
I (Br Associated PreM.
1 . . . n in., d.a.1
asmngion, auk. ""-'-''. caUoB 0f cotton, according to an
dent Thomas R. Marshall will be for- j nouncement made bjr F c. Welnert,
manager.
terest rate will be 5 per cent as In the original plan of settlement. The mani wer wpnllied w)tn heaty
the case of me previous loans, duo- mployera saw tna n-esiaeni si iu:ju yunM
1- -i scrlptlons will be received up to Oct tnd the employes later In the after
On th Verdun fmnt the fiermana
6th. The Issue price, the dispatch noon. The represenUtlvea of the' . .
ays, will be 8. .four brotherhoods had remained with un(lucce(lllfuljy
County von Roedern. secretary of a,. Pre,dent an hour and a half, but j ft wag tnnounred nm Petroerad
iKa IHinAflal IfAftfllirv halt InittltUted ..1,4 Mn mala at alafnmAnt An loftV.
ua ' .wuuiu hi. - ...... .. mArn nr tha Rnailant hurl r-
sumed their adyance tlonn th entire
! i .l.lt. n4 Titflrai UmA
. . I nDiaiii. si sail 14 uiav ut ro
by canvassers aa 'the last Verned." aald A. B. Garretson. Pokp-,ecuate)j mm
rormer issues 01 w.r uncnaced. no complete, concrete . .nrm . .,.,.... h. fll(
measures to popularlxe the loan, 'fog
which, the dispatch says, la being de- "jh, tUatlon as far as we are con
scribed
war loan
on September 9th.
APPROPRIATION BILL
TO PRESIDE!
was done to the city In less than eight
hours.
This classification of cotton la to
be carried out In a number 01 cotton nil wag t0 ma(l8 possible by
producing counties of the state, and1,,, emergency cjty ordinance passed
at the same time, the provisions of jjonday. tt .which property own-
the Permanent1 Warehouse and Mar
keting Law will be observed,
60S
inn Aftiisimf lAriir
Jj IUUIJIT AbtNl
bonds may be turned In aa subscrip- pmpoaitlon to which the rsllroads
tlons. , .agree has been tendered us. Oun
The fourth Germsn war loan was prop0iiitlon Is the same aa when we
Issued In March. It was sold at 98 1 1 mcPep(ed the President's plan."
as against 99 for the third loan. Ant n,. strike neaotlatlona hsve re-
Issue price of 98 for the new bonds 'nUti themselves, outwardly at least. I
would Indicate that Germany, in com
mon with other belligerents, Is being
compelled to pay a higher price for
Its funds as the war goes on.
(By Associated PrwO
Washington. Aug. 25. The army
appropriation bill., once vetoed y
President Wllaon.' was accepted by
ka UnnM twtiv with a revision an-
The London war bulletin aays after , . ,w.Mmi, wit .nd the
French was admitted In the German
atatement today.
ARRESTED AFTER 44 YEARS.
Into a more or less confused state.'
Expressions of optimism were lnfre-1
quent and a feeling waa general
among the managers that the plan to
Include an elaht hour day will not be
found In evidence.
hard fighting on the Somme front, the
British lines have been advanced sev
eral hundred yards near Delvalle
woods.
War department, and will go again to
the President for bis signature.
BEASOri ON THE JOB
Live Wire and Ana Who Haa Pro
grass! veness In His Bones An
Advocate of Diversification.
era were given ten days to clean
the debris along the beach front, and
put the city In ship-shape appearanc
once more.
After the storm had subsided and
all wreckage been washed up on
shore from pavilltone, docks and bath
ing piers along the water front,
there were millions of feet of lumber
scattered on a two-mile stretch of
beach. , Persons were warned the
ordinance read, that unlets all prem
ises were cleaned np In ten days and
the refuse disposed of, the city
, would remove the debris at property
Waa Wanted In Connection With the
Death of a Conatable.
Ashvllle. N. C Aug. 25. After elud
ing the officers tor 44 years, Andy
"Wise, white man, wanted In Bun
combe county tor the alleged mur
der of John Rogers, former consta
ble of Buncombe county, baa been
arrested In Williamson. W. va ac
cording to a tolegram received by
8herlff Mitchell Thursday.
Immediately after the murder Wis
waa arrested, but while en route to
the county jail escaped and had not
been seen In this vicinity until lat
April, when ha mad a brief visit
here but departed before Sheriff
Mitchell waa notified. Wine will be
brought back to Ashvllle for trial.
F I CE COMMITTEE
YIELDS Til PROTESTS
WIFE MURDERER IS
FINALLY CAPTURED
Proposed Tax on All Insurance Poli
cies In Emergency Revanue Bill
Struck Out
(By Associated Ptms.)
Washington. Aug. 25. The Demo
crata of the Senate Finance commit
tee today yielded to protests from all
parte of the country and have atruck
out the clauae In the emergency rev
enue bill which proposed stamp
tai on Insurance policies. A tax of
one half a rent on each dollar In pre
mluma on all pollclea, Including life
Insurance policies, waa the clause.
(Br Asanclatod P
Waxahachle. Tex.. Aug. . 25. The
search for Ollle Baopree which ex
tended over the entire United States
Whan those who had the power to
do so, Selected Mr. C. L. Beason aa ownert ezMnse.
county aVntior Brews county, theyj Work na(1 commenced early In tha
certainly make no mistake In their (WM), repuclng these structure
choice. Mr. Beason is a man who Is torn 6y wind, and repairing dam
.easy to approach and la one who Is ate dona In the residence and
quick to make friends. In the few ess sections. By the same time. K
months he has been In this county we ' was Md, railroad traffic over the
'venture to aar that he Is better ac-'fUn Antonio A Aransas Paaa trestle
Loader Preparing to Wind Up Bus!- qaanted than Iota of people who have ' would be reaumed. and entirely nor-
neaa Up and Adjourn Friday or pent thelr Uvea here. Mr. Beason Is mal conditions would prevail
Saturday of Next Weak. man ritllt on n, j0D all the time. I Only one thing, however, cannot ba
j He la an advocate of farm dlverslfl- replaced Immediately, It was added.
. t. 'A"TZ .j-.i.i.t. cation from the word go. He la one and that waa th devastated coC3
wasmnKion. ua. . ....-- ....
tlon leader In
Efl OF CONGRESS
DRA HEAR
rM, ... who believes In making your living at, and grain crop In the storm-aw
J . k I- it.- .HUH inNCII 111 t ' . , , . A i .1 . .
ana miu in wutu mo . . vH noma, ana u giving me arnier kiiiib , lorruurj
war ended yesterday In Lo. Angelea. ,' Jt""t ' ""l id.U that wUl m.k. them alt np and of the ,
California, according to a message r-iOT n..7. " i, . ..m Uk notice.
celv by Sheriff H. S. Dearbon of Tln. 8turtay night Mr. Bam trill at-
E1U. county today. Bauprw waa .. 'Jf" tend the Farmer.' Union meeting at
liberty on bond pending an apped unforeseen development. "j'Iltar and 1. al.ted to glv an
from a tw.nty-flv ywr .entenc tor!prOeT. Include, tbe Inten tl to
th. murder of hi. wife In Delia, aev P" a.nc en ry o, ,.
no doubt prove to
er.1 year. ago. the cm coming to "me. from the Hon.. Tue.d.y and
-i. . .v n.. then nasi th revenue bill and aa-
This loss alon wa
greatest effects of th atom.
this eltT on a rhanxe of venue. Bail, mea pass o ro.n.u.
pre disappeared before his appeal Journ.
be
i st.nnan Kindt nf lfurten was in the
waa ever beard and could not
apprehended. His case was
reversed by the higher court.
Ml .
..nan j
I
city today and called on The Eagl.
Before Prices Advance
On Hoosier Kitchen Cabinets
Prices must advanct is th official announcement made by the
HOOSIER COMPANY. Our allotment at the old price is LIMITED
only a few of each pattern is left thete may go any day. When this ad
vance was announced the HOOSIER COMPANY sold 20.000 cabinetts In
three weeks. This shows the popularity of the "HOOSIER".
Come at once before our allotment Is gone.
1. $1.00 puts the Cabinet in your home.
$1.00 weekly quickly pays for it
The low CASH PRICE fixed by the factory prevails strlctlty.
No Interest, no extra fees.
v.... kAt if hah ira nftt dalio-fitad.
I UUI III VI ivy wuvn jv - iFI
.it ....nmr hiiwlner thla week we will ffiv ABSOLUTELY
FREE, one Casserole set of 20 pieces, worth $5.00, FREE to you with a
HOOSIER this week. This offer Is limited to only six sets.
First SIX LADIES get these beautiful casseroles sets absolutely
FREE. ;
2.
3.
To
WEST OIES
I'O TO sat
soma very Interesting thing, to tell.
a. well a. some fin picture, to show.
A few more peopl In Braio. coun- laglelatur of th Danish West India
ty pulling Ilka Beason -for th "live
at home" movement and you would
ae quit a change In th rural dis
Urges Denmark to Cloee Sal f
Islands to United State.
(By Asanctnted
8t Thomaa, Danish
West
Indies,
Creditor "You aar you cant pay
m that 120,000 you ow me. Why
dont you marry Visa Oldgtrl; she,
worth twice that amonntr Brok
leigh Tant do that old chap. But.
I say, you might marry her yourself
and pay m the difference." Boston
Transcript
Aug. . In resolutions adopted y
tarday th local leglalature urged up
on th Danlah government to expe
dite th negotiations for th sal sc.
th Islands to th United SUte.
Any man of letters ought U suc
ceed for a .pell, at least
VE DOin VABT YOUR BAHK ACCODIiT
Bat We Do Vmt Yccr AtteaUcn !
We want to remind you that we sell every
thing for the home. .We would like to show
you our stock of Furniture and Convince
you that HERE is the logical point at which
to make your purchases.
W. T. JAMES, Furnlturo
-sajajasaaeaaaajajaaaaseas
Ho Fd
H'kfM team
1
