I JhI
Mil N pfl
2j . .hM
I ADVERTISE I - y-r . aiSSwrw Snwrrrr-y - r-vfcoTioc ilfl
There U much advertising value In fAli I 5S5ltcSSBEL?y AUVt,KM&ti ' WM
SH lng u The merchant who has II 1 SCaSTlC5HC"y iBWvl3BSi?X ys. &. Ak Kvry store, has some one who l 1HH
Sm to P,,ch horseshoes In the yard If II I VTll 11 & !LfeV'9ffl2er-J ellSSw il ll tIktIT mon or ,w lnt""cd In pushing tat j BEI
MCk ot his Btore. or to go visiting V1V V I II HxT rr?-3''0b2H(2FV --5lCTKV II III III II business. Every uslnesa Is worthy Oil
.bolt the neighborhood In business VX S 1L III llixisrSr?1???"!! II JIB III II to n greater or less extent of being t.WMU
hour. w mttke qult0 n reputation ? y i?gfir?r'TAi TJTjjTl!!JtfcTJr JJlSsvIS L, JIV onlnrged If the right person gets the 101
(or ren'tty but. when It comes to a " j J ' K JT p r business In hand nnd pushes In the HI
nutter of business ability, he will D"M ITIOAI I f nrnnni istnrvi right wn he can mako of that bust : &
ttobahb " unable to deliver the fKJll IUALLY. HtPUBLICAlN. ness n erj decided enlargement and Igjlf
,r( J. The moral U-ADVBllTttB. '"JJCIa,, Matter June ,. m, at the PoMoff.ce at Prlc. Utah Vnder the Aet of March 3. 1171 ?' """" " XC" '"ftr,"d ad HI
a OIUME 2; NUMBER U, BVERYFrTdAY AUGUST 25, 1916 ilM
,;: ENTRIES FOR THE
ly CREATSHEEP SALE
riM',r ll,0 us lx U,,:,I v '!
nr .shown.
atn
rst
We ivi Wood In the World (ine (hi l'..
tilWllnii At the t'tnli Stnlc I'nlr
I, round' t Salt lnle 'lt I'or the
uciloii lieglnulm: .YiiguM :l(iili mid
Continuing I'nlll Srplenilter 'Jil,
CH t nilcr tin direction of the National
M Woolgrewers' association there will
be held nt the state fair grounds In
I felt Ink City the first nnnual rnm
'C I Hf of the association. The date for
I the sab I" from August 30th to Hep--'C
I tmt'r 2d. Inclusive. There have
I9c fcn entered fur this wile over thirty
(fu i.n hundnd nnd fifty rnms. These
,. ntries are from the best flocks In
America nnd will represent the elude
" Mt beep bred by these flnckmnstcr.
tit Tne entries comprise llnmhoulllcts,
lUmpshlrcs, Cotswolds, l.lnrnlns nnd
fhropshlrcs, nnd In each of the classes
will be found many Individuals rep
rtntlng the best blood In the world.
In addition to the American grown
hep, a smaller number has born
rc nt from New Zealand as well as n
Ot. '" tram Great llrltaln. The Kngllsh
th'rp were brought to the ITnlled
Jutes and iiunrnntlned nt llnstnn,
Mais, for fifteen day. They are now
set of qunrnntlne nnd on their way to
4lt Uke city.
There Is no doubt that nil of the
M ihrep entered will he sent to the sale
ii exeryiine who made nn entry de-
poilted a forfeit fee of fifty cents per
" held which Is to be forfeited In the
" emit t tint the shenp lire not sent to
)( the sale This will be the greatest
opportunity that Atnerliii sheepmen
H hie ever hnd to compare the tpe of
heep bred by the different breeders
a the same grounds. Of course,
miny sheep shows are held In this
it tountr), but these shows frequently
rontlut of n few rii-ad of sheep from
Vt each breeder, not sufficient In many
ue to Judge the merits of his en-
' tlr flock At this mm sule, how-
c ever the breeders will see side by
tide as initny us n hundred head
drawn from different flocks nnd will
1 e iie to form n definite opinion n
j! f) the clmnutcrif the flocks owned
k 1'' each Individual.
t In t linnet Hon with the sate, it rnm
' thuw will be held In which premiums
imountlng to tlOO first, $76 second,
t -nil Mi third will be given. These
premium will be cIiikkch of twenty-
'lie rains suitable fur range use. The
rrcjt bulk of sheepmen are range
sheepmen, nnd they nre more Inter-
"till In runge sheep than they ure In
few' show sheep. Therefore, by
making the classes for strictly range
rims the Interest of nil Western
sheipim-n win m aroused.
The Itamboulllets will be Judged by
I I Vim lloiiten of Khnemaker, N,
M who Is accredited one of the best
udgr uf itumhoulllct In America.
The Judges for the other classes havo
il't us )et been selected, but tills will
' dmiH within Iho next few dais.
Through the courtesy of the Hah
Rtate Fair association the show will
'- hi lit on the state fair grounds, nnd
thrsi' grounds have now been fixed so
" t accommodate the entries that
luvi bren made The show will be
I'll to the public nnd no admission
' will be (barged, all being Invited
t ' attend
CHURCH DEDICATION
jM I iirxc ('rim, KiihvIiiI I'iiuii the hur
U loiiliilliiK ('omuiiiiillles.
iho dedication of the new Oreek
hrrh at 1'rlce y tako place next
M nday, August, J8th. This will be a
' holiday nirvbiig thtl Oreeks. I?x-
slon trains ire to bJ run from the
imps pf the coiittUvTho main cere-
" 'lri will take place at 9 or JO o'clock
thu forenoon. New trustees will
fleeted. There should be eight
'" nil red or u thousand persons herej
' Mark I'etrlakls, the prlestnrfiu
h'llan Ktaeu will be tint principal
"-iktr. The ohurch la not yet com-
rieted, but It wua thought best to hold
1m1I atlon ceremonlea Monday on ac-
"nt of It being a holiday. Kver-
"" In I'rlce, regardlebi) of hla or her
f'llglous bullcf, Is Invited to be pros-
ft on that day.
Stationery nnd office "surfpllm at
The sun.
WELCOME.
mmm active
home drvat Muni I'or n (hmhI Ciiiim
to lie l'nllnl Off.
Uist Thursday night the general
committee met nnd decided on the
great lloman market and appointed
n committee to carry out the details,
Chairman, Carl flunderson; John .Ma
th U, Juhn Trlnee, ()iir Hansen, Al
bert I'nce, (leorge A. Nixon, I'rlce,
and the bishoprics of till wards In
Carbon stake Knoch C. llrjnrr, llel
ler; Hllus llowley, Kuril, unit Henry
Oil. lis, Kenlluorth.
Tin re will be grent activity In the
market with the above forces gather
ed for this stupendous undertaking.
Chickens will be sold "hnmmrred
down," and rer l)ily's goat will be
gotten. Thoroughbred live stock ga
lore wilt be sold on the block or III
the stnll. There'll be swine for the
bacon shop and potatoes' e)es to be
watered with onions tears. In fact
there will be ever) thing from n Imby
chick to a full grown "Alice ele
phant." Arrangement will I in made for cor
rals near the tabernacle and the col
billons of stotk, fruit and vegetables,
its well us potillr), will be handled In
real old Itnuuiu fashion. Itxcurslous
are being nrranged from nearly ull
the null) lug towns, nnd the largest
crowd ever III I'rlce Is expected,
DHTOJNiWI
I. Illlo llccr liitendcil I'or 'Ami In Ion
DIih. A fur llrlif Illness.
In n letter that breathed de-
light of Missesson, I'red W.
Chambers, state fish nnd game
commissioner, una Informed
ome weeks ago that N. (i, I'apu-
4- dakls of Hiawatha was the own-
er of n lllllu fawn. The baby
deer had been adopted Ii) a mo-
Iher gout of the floik pastured
on the hills near Hiawatha by
I'npadakls. -
Cominlslonur Chambers en-
lerlulned the Idea of getting
someone to buy the fawn and Its
foster-goat-mother ami Install
them at Liberty Turk nt Hult
Iike City Ills plans were rude-
ly shattered by ii letter received
from the man In lllawuthu It
4- follows
lllumilliii. I'tali, Aug. H, IDIil.
I 'Ull mid (iniiie Comiiilwloii.
(ciilleliicu 'Unit Utile dear I
I lino with me died )etcnlu),
iiuiiI 7, I oYlmk p. in. JiM
been sick rlvn minute. I ilo liexl
I mil, but nothing doing. Your
ver trill),
N. fi. I'M'I'AIIAIUS.
"
rcMiitAi, hinivicix ni:i.i
ion Mits. itoiiintr iiihiioi-
Mrs. Itolurt llishoi died at her
home In I'rlie last Krlday iind was
burled Humlay, funeral services being
conducted from the tabernacle, thn
speakers being lllshop Albert Ilrner,
rresldent A. V. Horsley and John
rotter. Kavh spoke feelingly of th
life and charaiter of the deceused,
Mrs. Illihop was SI yrurs of age
and came to Carbon county some 30
jeurs ago from Kngland. She was
the mother of twenty-one children,
ten of whom nru living besides her
husband. The family lived at Hco
field and Hunnslde, moving to I'rlce
several years ago from the lattet
place, llurlal took place at the city
cemetery In I'rlce.
'WKjnir
One Darn Tiling Or notlici- la
Confronting tAt.
4- Uing distance call fur William
Jennings tlrynn'
I'lty the poor I'te' He does
not have nn) brains, but those
with which he Is endowed en-
able him to evade th Inlrlcn-
cles o the federal laws regard-
Ing the sale of Intoxicating II-
nuors to Indians. He has ills-
covered that grapcjulcc Is ns
good ns old r In the vol
The t'te Indians of the I'lntah 4
llaslu have found that grape-
4 Juice burled In sands ferments 4
4 and the desired "kick" Is gener-
atid. Three manufacturers of 4
grapejuhe In the country nrc
facing ii call of the federal grand 4
Jury In Utah to explain wh) In- 4
4 dlans get "drunk" on the Julie of 4
4 thn grape when no alcohol Is 4
4 found by the government ntialy- 4
4 sis. 4
4 II. H. Wellington, rcpneenta- 4
4 live of a grapejulce company, de- 4
4 dared lust Tuesday night nt Halt 4
4 l.uke City that grupcjiihe com- 4
4 panles were liable to Imlktments 4
4 liecnuse the Indians In Ilia t'ln- 4
4 tall Ibisln had subjected the Julie 4
4 to heat until the contents of the 4
4 bottle becume wine of it high nl- 4
4 cohol content. 4
4 Wellington asserts Unit grape- 4
4 Juice will ferment If kept In a 4
4 hot climate for liny length of 4
4 time. The effect Is not the same 4
4 us the firewater which has been 4
4 the "enemy of the Indians." but 4
4 the) have been "feeling too 4
4 good" In the estimation of the 4
4 feilernl offli Inls. 4
4 4
44444444444444444
YODTHJOSES lEd
Miner Hun Over II) Denver mid I tin
tininde I'relght,
Joseph IVrguson, aged nlmul 30
)cars and nn emplo)c of I'tali i'uel
tonipany nt Castle (late, had his left
leg crushed by n ear of a freight train
between Castle date and Helper lust
Humlay. I'erguson Is a machine man
In the mines it t Castle (late. Not
working Hunilny. he with two coin
Imnlnns started to walk from the owl
eump to the railroad town.
About H mile west of Helper all
three tried to "Jump" n freight train
whli h was cost hound. Ferguson's
two cnmimulous made the I ruin all
right, but I'ergusou went under it
cur The leg ,vas mangled from the
knee down. I'assersliy on the wagon
road conveed Ferguson buck to Cas
tle (late, where Dr. I. M. Neher at
tended the )oung man.
'Die object of I'ergllson'fc trip to
Helper was to take from the express
.office there a suit of vlothmt that had
been expressed to him by a I'rlio
i tailoring establishment. The victim
of the accident has a brother working
at Italns. The latter wus soon noti
fied after the acoldent imil hastened
to his brother's side.
One method of exterminating grass
hoppers was related the other day to
"Htubby'' Haines, state Immigration
and labor eommlssloner, In a let
ter received at Ills office from Charles
V McCrary of (Irund Junction, Colo,
McCrary states that ho has discovered
a parasite which kills the obnoxious
hopper. He offers to stnd the Immi
gration department a supply of the
parasites If Utah farmers have any
use for them,
MASTJIEM1IDS
(oiliiim hclimilmarma Sore On the
.Midland Trail.
Having traveled unaccompanied
from New York to Halt l.nkc City by
moorc)cle without having experl
enied ntinojanre at any time on their
Journey, Ml us Adeline Van lluren nnd
her sister, Augusta, paid high tribute
ut .Inn the otlvr day In u few words
to American ohlvnlry.
"Annoyance?" Miss Adeline re
pented with an uplifted e)ebrow.
"Certainly not. We nre 'traveling In
America."
The Mlses Van Huron left New
York July (th for Han franclsco by
motorcycle. Their route lay through
Jluffalo, Chliago, Omahn, Denver,
'olnrudo Hprlngs, across the moun
tains to lluena Vista nnd t.endvllle,
thence to Drum! Junction nnd I'rlce,
thence to Halt Uike City.
"And the roads were simply terrible
from ll rand Junction to I'rlce," Miss
Van lluren said,
"We have enjoyed the Journey be
yond menstire," Miss Van lluren said,
"and can recommend It to nny woman
who can stand roughing It. We have
put up nt hotels mid wayside Inns ev
ery night, mid huve had many most
delightful experience.
"We had considerable rain In the
mountain region, but that was our
only discomfort except the roads,
which In place were unspeakably
bad. Hut the going Is better now
and I believe we will have no further
discomfort. We are traveling lels
urel), nnd ex prut to reach Han Trim-
Iseo In about leu du)."
The )oung women, ntllred In lea
ther leggings, close fitting leather
breeches and leather coats, attracted
some attention ut the Newhnuse Ho
tel, where they are registered during
their brief stuy In Halt Lake Clt)
mmm pisses
Mr. Illeunor llro)le Hurled At Salt
loike Clt) lain! ,Mniilii.
Mrs. J I. llro)ls, ngnl S3 cur
and it resident of Hcofliild, died ut Halt
luvke City last I'rlday morning. Al
though ii resident of Hcofleld, Mrs.
llro)les had spent much of her time
there owing to the fact thut two of
her children were In school at the
state eupllnl.
Ih (leased was the wife of J. I'.
llro)les, for many )ears an engineer
on the Denver mid Itln (irnndu and a
resident nt Hcofleld. In addition to
her husband deccused Is survived by
three sons nnd three daughter. The)
, are Joseph, William and Clarence
llrojles, Mrs. Joseph I'urmle) mid
I Mrs. Agnos MoAlllster niid Catherine
llroyles.
I funeral services for deceased were
held ut Halt iJike City last Monday,
I mass being celebrated at Ht. Mary's
iiialliedral. Interment was ut Calvary
'cemeter). Mrs. l!roles for a number
'of )enrs conducted the Hcofleld House
nt Hcofleld nnd was well known to
' muny Carbon county people outside
of her home town.
Hhe was it most excellent woman
mid will bo greatly missed by u large
circle of devoted friends.
Ideation notices carried In stock at
The Hun office.
HUGHES IS WELCOMED l
AT SALT LAKE CITY
Republican Presidential Nominee Sounds the jl
Keynote of Dominant Americanism and
Severely Criticises Wilson Administration ill
Many People Unable to Gain Admission to II
the Great Tabernacle. yjl
i 13 1
'
SALT LAKE CITY, Auk. 2-1 StrlkliiR from the shoulder at the v
jjollcicH of the democratic udminlHtrntion In regard to the tariff,
prenarcdnesH and the duty which the government of the United JH
States owes to Its citizens Ixth at home and abroad, Charles E. ''jH
Hughes republican nominee for President, received nn ovation last ,H
night from the 1G.000 Utahns who crowded into the Tabernacle, jH
stood in the aides nnd mnsscd themselves about the doors of the mI
great structure eager to get a glimpHu of the republican candidate J ,jH
nnd hear his address. '
The pent-up feelings of the largest crowds that ever heard a Trlfl
political speech in this state burst forth when Mr. Hughes was ill
pleading for an "undiluted Americanism" and for the pence and JH
prosperity of the country said: ' H
"Wo propose to hold before the world the flag of the United i!
States as a flng which has never betrayed a trust." lH
Tho preliminary waves of applause and cheers which hnd reet- j jH
ed thu candldntu before that time shrank into insignificance before ftjJH
tho tldnl wave of enthusism which greeted the nominee from every pH
part of the Tnbcrnnclc. v 01
The coming of Mr. Hughes to Utah was marked by a wonderful jH
display of enthusiasm. From tho time that Mr. Hughes stepped l
from the train and with Mrs. Jlugheaon his arm made his way III
through a thousand cheering riamlrS'kt thu Oregon Short Line XI
union station until he was engulfed in thu vortex of thu maelstrom til
of welcome accorded him at thu gigantic meeting Inst night, he
was classified as "a man of the people" by all of those who came nl
in contact with him. lfil
Shows His Democracy.. Wbh
The first step of democracy of Mr. Hughes was shown when he Jlftfl
dismissed n closed automobile which had been sent for him to the I'ImhI
railroad station. With a wave of his hand he sent thu mnchlne 31
away nnd climbed into an open car that, to use his words, "I may whI
see tho people." Rl
Then he broke more precedents. The solemn dignity which is B
Hiipocd to enshroud those who have worn the robes of thu Judicl- f !m
nry was never apparent and in his address which aroused the $Vh
greatest political gathering In Utah's history, he placed before the jJEI
people the Issues of the campaign in language clear, simple, con- ITCjI
else and to the point. ffnl
Whllo the crowd last night was not tho largest that Mr. Hughes if,H
has addressed on his trip across thu continent it ranks as one of IH
the most enthusiastic. Thu candldntu of the republican party for ikul
President of the United States was not long In feeling out the tern- Hll
per of tho Utahns and during his address ho departed from the us- J iltl
usual forms of seech which ho has used in other places and carried ii itfl
the great audience along with him by his nptness in dealing with riH
any situation which he was presenting. Jal
While the ovation he was given when hu entered the Tabernacle
with tho great organ pealing forth the strains of . "The Star- j
Spangled Ilanner," and 15,000 cherlng men and women giving wel- H
como, wns acknowledged to be ono of the greatest he has received JH
It was exceeded by the demonstration wfien ho mnde his points in r IhI
favor of a protective tariff for tho benefit of tho American mnnu- j WM
fucturers and American workmen. The demonstration hunted JKhhI
threu minutes. 91
CARBON-EMERY VISITORS WELCOMED
MONROE, Aug. 18Thtrty automobiles carrying farmers and 'IhH
their wives from Emery and Carbon counties arrived here yeater- ;i
day about noon on a friendly visit, accompanied by many others Vehh
from other parts of this country. fH
A committee on reception mnde them welcome and escorted them IIhI
to many parts of the farming district in this precinct. Luncheon IbH
wns served at tho farm residence of Luwls W. Jones, during which f H
social and Industrial chats were Indulged in. A meeting was held 11
at tho south ward chapel In the afternoon, where an Impromptu ; f H
program consisting of speeches and songs was nicely carried our A fH
under the direction of Jacob Magleby. A full house enjoyed tho &
program. The evening wiib spent nt the Hot Springs bathing re- llH
sort where the commodious swimming pool was heavily patronized, itH
as was also tho open air dancing pavilion at tho same place. The '"fH
visitors, over 400 in number, were ngnln treated to a splendid fH
luncheon. iH
Mnny expressions of appreciation were mnde by our visiting
friends of the wnrm-hearted treatment received. Most of them f
left at nbout 11 p. m. 2
. f$l
The Price-Uintah Basin Auto Lino company of Myton has been iMhI
Incorporated. The capitalization is for $25,000, in 500 shares. NfH
The incorporators nre George S. Sloan, R. j; Enochs, Haydon T&: j I'h1
Calvert, G. P. Kughler and Marabelle S. Enochs. ' tf'''H
j iSaH
