The Echo lias a
reading circulation
or over 4.000 per
sons who trade in
Lcavenworth. Ad
vertise and increase
your business.
Vol. 13. No. 34
FINDING Of NATURAL
GAS IN GRANT COUNTY
Causing Stampede—Twenty-Three Miles
South of Ephrata —Geologists Say
Indications Are Favorable
Tho the original well was discovered
by a rancher in digging a well two
years ago, he kept his secret so well
that it only became public a few days
ago. The locality where the original
discovery was made in a basin made by
the Frenchman hills on the south and
the high hills near Ephrata. Iverson
dug a well four years ago and failed to
find water. About two years ago he
concluded to go deeper by boring in
the bottom of the old well and went
down some forty feet and struck water.
It had a peculiar smell and there wa^
evidence of gas. He capped the hole
and a few days afterwards found that
gas had collected in the hole, and
touching a match found that it would
burn, throwing up a flame several feet
high. Of course the facts finally leaked
out and the public got hold of the
story.
The excitement has reached that
point where thoroughjnvestigation will
be made before the oil question is
given up. It is believed that at a
depth of from one thousand to fifteen
hundred feet will fully settle the ex
istence of oil. At Alberta, Canada, gas
is found at a depth of 250 to 800 feet.
In Oklahoma from 1000 to 1700 feet,
and in Indiana they have to go to a
depth of 2000 feet. The Quincy basin
has aii elevation of about 1,150 feet
above sea level. Interested parties are
advised to go to Ephrata and drive
about 23 miles south to get into the
country affected by the oil excitement.
Now there is a stampede to the south
ern part of Grant county and land is
being taken up by the section and
township. Brown, a mineralogist of
some repute was at first skeptical about
the gas and thought it a fake, but ex
amination of the Iverson well convinced
him that the |as came from the bot
tom of the well. The formation, too,
say those who pretend to know, is right.
Gas, it is said, is found only in country
not capped by basalt. Oil is found in
sandstone and shale formations, such
as covers the Grant county aiea. The
locality is a shale formation with lime
stone above, which is another favorable
indication. The lime and iron found
in this section are still further indica
tions. The mud volcanoes to the eaat,
west and south are indicators of an oil
country. Then oil has an affinity for
sulphate of soda, much of which chem
ical exists in this section. Added to
the above is the fact that small quan
tities of coal have been found by dig
ging wells in this vicinity.
Added interest attached to the Grant
county well owing to the fact that a
similar vein of gas had been struck
further south near Hanford some time
ago. For years it has been recognized
that the conditions through Central
Washington were right for oil. An
effort was made a year ago to raise
money for the purpose of testing out
the country for oil there. But no work
was ever done. At Hanford a company
was organized and on sinking a well
struck gas at 500 feet. They are now
down 754 with a constantly increasing
gas flow. The gas comes up through
500 feet of water. This Hanford well
is about 20 miles south of the Grant
county well.
Auto Owners Take Notice
Hereafter Ordinance No. 161 as re
gards traffic on the streets of Leaven
worth, will be strictly enforced. Sec
tion 21 provides that no muffler shall
be cut out or disconnected inside the
city limits. If you are not already ac
quainted with the above ordinance a
copy of same can be had for the asking
from either the City Clerk or the Chief
of Police, Joe Teshera.
32-5 Chief of Police.
Mrs. E. Crocker went to Wenatchee
Wednesday bent on a briel visit with
friends.
tTbe Xeavenwortb felfe"
%> - *■-'* \»V xVo^>^*
Wenatt hee Apples Moving Freely
The Wenatchee World of Wet 4:
day reporls the sals of five thousand ]
boxts, the entire crop of apples of the
E. F. Cadman orchard, consisting of
Winesaps, Spitzenbergs and Delicious,
with a considerable quantity of Rome j
Beauties and Staymans. This is the i
■ best price yet recorded for orchard run :
and was ta^en by the Wenatchee Pro- i
i duce Co. Sales at from 90c to 31.05 i
have been numerous. Marketing in
dications point to still higher prices.
Approximately a half million dollars
iri r:h have been sold up to this time. |
ACTIVITY ON WENATCHEE
VALLEY NORTHERN RAILWAY
Indicates that Logging Will Be Carried
on by the Big Mill Company this
Fall and Winter
Curiosity was aroused the first of this
week when a train went out over the
\ tracks of the Wenatchee Valley Nor
i them railway. Sam Potter, formerly
employed by the company to run one
jof its engines was at the throttle. A
bit of investigation developed the fact
that the company had engaged to de
liver a lot of sheep to the Great Nor
thern road from the end of its track in
the Beaver creek valley, some twenty
miles west of Leavenworth and to make
the road passable several washouts
I caused by the melting snows of the
past winter had to be repaired. Ed
Lee, with some twenty men is engaged
in making the repairs to the rGadbed
near the divide between the Chumftick
valley and Beaver creek and estimates
it will take him two or three weeks.
The trestle across the flat is also coming
in for some repairs.
An unconfirmed rumor subsists to
the effect that the big saw mill com
pany has the double purpose in view
of moving the sheep and later on using
th: road in connection with logging
operations to be commenced about the
time harvesting is over and carried on
thru the winter.
THOMAS-CULROSS MINE
IN PRODUCING CLASS NOV. 1
Last of Machinery Left Seattle This Week
for Alaska —A Five Ton Power Boat
a Part of the Equipment.
Guy A. Hamilton returned from Se
attle Tuesday after spending four days
there. While there he was in confer
ence with Don M. Thomas the general
manager of the company. Because
the Thomas family, discoverers and
principal owners of the mining property
formerly lived here, and also because
there are a number of Leavenworth
people who own stock in the Thomas-
Culross Mining Co., the fact that the
company is about to get on the pro
ducing basis should prove interesting
reading.
On Monday last Mr. Thomas left
Seattle in a five ton power boat, the
property of the mining company in
command of Capt. Don Thomas, a
regularly licensed pilot, for Culross
island, Port Wells district. He stated
to Mr. Hamilton that all the machinery
had been bought and the last shipment
would leave Seattle this week for Cul
ross island, and that in 60 days the
company would begin to earn dividends
for the stockholders.
Indorsed by U. of W. Alumni
We, the officers of the University of
Washington Alumni Association endorse
Harold H. Stewart, candidate for Re
publican Nomination for State Treas
urer, a U. of W. graduate, class '11.
■ • Signed, WmrC. Speidell, Pres-.-
Chas. Smith, Vice Pres.
Bernice Sully, Sec.
Tacoma —Bank clearings for July
show a gain of almost 82,000,000 over
the same month of last year, and there
is an increase of J7.000,000 for the
first seven months of 1916 as compared
with the same period of 1915.
The Higher Up the Valley You Go the Bigger and Better the Apples Grow
Leavenworth, Wash., Friday, August 25, 1916
A BOOST fOR HOME MADE
WASHINGTON PRODUCTS
Washington Manufacturers' and Mer
chants' Industrial Fair Proved
a Great Success.
A tremenduous impetus was given
: Washington indu try by the big manu
: facturers' and merchants' Industrial fair
which was held in Seattle during the |
Made-in-Washington week, which clos
ed last Saturday. More than 40,000
people, both from the city and from I
over the state, visited the fair and]
viewed the 200 exhibits of goods pro- j
duced in the state of Washington, j
[ Most of these displays are now in the
permanent exposition of the Manufac
turers' Exhibit and Exchange and may
be seen at all times in the Stuart-Henrv
j White buildings.
Manufacturers, exhibitors and the
public pronounced the fair the most
successful ever held in the northwest,
both as to the range of exhibits and
their quality. During the fair there
was brought to light the fact that many
new industries are developing through
out the state.
All sorts of entertainment was offered
those who saw the fair —music, danc
ing, vaudeville and moving pictures of
industrial plants. Scores of demon
strations of Washington goods were in
constant progress and thousands of
samples were given away.
About 1500 merchants from over the
northwest, together with their families,
were in the city during the week and
a majority of these spent a great deal
of time at the fair, carefully inspecting
Washington products, and went home
determined to do their part in urging
people to buy goods made in this com
monwealth. Most of the merchants
were also guests of the various Seattle
manufacturers at their plants.
Mr. Wm. Pigott, president of the
Manufacturers' Association, in an in
terview^fter the fair said: "The un
usual success of the Manufacturers' and
Merchants' Industrial fair is yery grati
fying to me. I was frankly but very
agreeably surprized, both at the wide
extent and variety of exhibits shown,
and at the extremely large attendance.
However, what pleased me most of all,
was the genuine interest apparent in
the displays of Washington made goods.
Practically every visitor took time to
make a minute examination of each ex
hibit that came at all within his range
of curiosity. The constant stream of
questions asked of those in charge of
the exhibits was, to me, evidence of
the success of the fair. The obvious
conclusion is that the public has cer
tainly awakened to an appreciation and
understanding of this state's manufac
tures and indicates that the stage has
been reached where the Washington
manufacturer has won the co-operative
encouragement of his neighbors.
War and the Increased Cost of
Newspapers
The man who spreads out his morn
ing newspaper at the breakfast table
and reads the events of home and
abroad does not realize the cost of
gathering that news and presenting it.
Particularly he does not realize that the
far-off war in Europe has still further
increased the cost of his daily paper,
even tho the war across the ocean and
the plant of his favorite paper are sep
arated by several thousands of miles.
Several newspapers in these United
Stales of ours have been compelled to
shut up shop because of the increase
in the cost of materials. Hundreds of
publishers have seen that they had
their choice between grabbing a limb
or drowning, and the first limb they
grabbed was to. raise_.the subscription
price.
The action of the Dcs Moines Capi
tal illustrated the action of publishers
thruout the middle west. It announ
ced an immediate increase in its sub
scription price from $2 to 83 and is
returning money offered for subscrip
tions at the old rate. In addition, it
is cutting down its exchange list, re-
fusing to send free copies to advertisers
and otherwise husbanding its store of i
white paper.
The cost of job printing, too, has
gone skyward. The man who has 500
of 1,000 letterheads printed now will
find a big increase in the cos! to him j
over the price of a year ago. That
increase does not represent an increase
in the profit of the printer. In fact,
even with that increase the printer is
probably making less profit than he did
a year ago under the old and lower
price.
Parlous times indeed are these for
printers and publishers of every kind.
Print paper is not the only source of
trouble. Metal used in linotypes has
advanced 100 per cent. Ink rollers
have made a jump of 50 per cent.
And this only begins to tell the tale.
ANOTHER $6,300 TO BE
SPENT ON BLEWLTT ROAD
Additional Money Appropriated by the
Forestry Department—Work to Be
Done This Year
By Forest Supervisor Sylvester we
are informed that additional sum of
86,300 becomes available for the im
provement of this popular mountain
road. This, with the 88,000 appro
priated the past winter, makes 814,300
that the forestry department has set
aside for the betterment of a mountain
pass that every day is becoming more
popular with tourists and travelerg in
going from the eastern to the western,
or from the western to the eastern part
of the state of Washington. Of the
total sum approximately 88,000 will
be spent on the Chelan county side
and the balance on the Kittitas county
side. At this time the forestry
department is engaged on a stretch
of road on the Chelan county
side between the old Blewett mill and
the summit. Within the next two
weeks they will begin, if men can be
had, on a stretch of road on the Kitti
tas county side between the Mountain
home ranch, at the foot of the climb,
and the stretch of road completed last
fall by the authorities of Kittitas county.
By the middle of next summer at least
10 miles of new road with a minimum
grade of 5 per cent will have been con
structed on the Blewett route by the
Foiestry Service and the two counties.
In conversation with Forest Super
visor Sylvester one day this week he
said he had recently made a trip over
the Snoqualmie pass and was pleased
and delighted with the road and the
scenery along the route. He believes
the road will be more generally used
and become more populsr every year.
He says in scenic wonders the north
west has a g.eat asset. The scenery
on the upper reaches of the Icicle
canyon equals, if it does not surpass
the famous Yosemite valley valley ot
California.
Public the Goat in R.R. Trouble
According to the latest information
the trouble between the railroads and
their employees may be considered as
settled. The committee from the
railroads has tentatively agreed to the
eight hour proposition on condition that
the president use his influence with
the Interstate Commerce Commission
to permit an increase in railroad rates.
The railroads also ask that congress
create a permanent board of arbitration
to settle all disputes growing out of the
labor question on lines similar to those
now in force under the Canadian gov
ernment.
Under this arrangement the railroad
employees will get practically what they
have contended for, the railroads will
be leimbursed for the additional cost
and the public will foot the bill.
Notice to Water Users
When alarm of fire is 'given please
shut off all taps under penalty of fine.
By order of Water Commissioner. 31U*
Seattle —County motorcars used as
jitneys for fares is latest. Drivers
pocket the money.
A POLITICAL SAPHEAD
UNHORSED BY RECORD
A. 0. Burmeister, Tacoma, Makes Charge
Against Poindexter that Record
Fails to Prove
Nobody will disagree with the as
sertion that a man who makes a charge
against a public officer, contrary to the
record, stands convicted of being a
saphead. That's what A. O. Bur
meister of Tacoma, has been convicted
of. In his zeal to aid the candidacy of
Mr. Humphrey, candidate for United
States senator, he made the statement
that August 1, 1911 Senator Poindexter
voted against an amendment proposed
by his colleague, Senator Jones, and
therefore he was opposed to a tariff on
shingles.
Somebody dug up the record and
found that Senator Poindexter did vote
against a certain amendment proposed
by Senator Jones, but on this particular
amendment Mr. Poindexter had such
rock-ribbed tariff republicans for com
pany as Senator Root of New York,
Senator Lodge of Massachusetts, Sen
ator Smoot of Utah, Senator Townsend
of Michigan, and Senator Stepbenson,
one of the biggest lumbermen in this
country.
Senator Jones himself, and five other
Senators and no more, voted for the
Jones amendment.
It is a further fact that the 1911
session of congress never passed any
tariff law at all. The senate was re
publican and the house democratic,
making a deadlock.
In 1909, the Payne-Aldrich tariff law
was passed. In 1913, the Underwood
bill was passed.
In 1909, Jim Tawney of Minnesota,
a rank standpatter, introduced an
amendment for free lumber. Senator
Poindexter voted against that, and voted
FOR a tariff on lumber.
In 1913, Senator Poindexler, intro
ducing an amendment himself to pro
vide a tariff on 'lumber, spoke for it,
fought for it, and voted for it.
The record is plain. Anyone can
find it in the Congressional Record.
After the recent publication of fake
letters for political purposes, it is not
surprising that some editors give prom
inence to the deranged effusion of the
locoed Tacoman.
L P. Beecher Starts Something
One day the past week Mr. S. P.
Beecher, a Peshastin fruit grower re
turned from the head of Snow creek
with a number of trout that in size re
sembled Puget Sound salmon. He
exhibited the fish and said he caught
them in a small lake on the head of
Snow creek where three years ago he
planted some young fish. Devotees
of the art of fishing have one consum
ing desire, which is to catch the big
gest fish, and exhibit them to excite
the envy of other devotees of the art.
Mr. Lorange, of the Cash store, Bob
Henry, William Frank and C. W.
Kempter, ail with a reputation yet to
make, left last Sunday, for the place
where big fish are reported to abound
equipped with everything necessary to
ensnare a fish. They returned but
neither had anything to say aboat fish,
either big or little. Neither did they
show any fish. Finally the truth leaked
out. They never had a bite. Never
saw a fish, and say Mr. Beecer never
planted any trout in the lakes, and the
fish he exhibited were shipt from Seattle.
Did you ever go fishing and climb
rocks and up steep mountain slopes
eight or ten miles and never get a bite?
If you have you know about how the
quartette of fishermen felt last Sunday
evening when they returned to the city.
TfoKe'lo Voters *
For the benefit of those who cannot
find time to register during working
hours, City Clerk Brown will keep the
registration books open Saturday night,
Aug. 26th, and Thursday night Aug.
31st, between the hours of 8 and 9
o'clock.
Our Job Printing
department is com
plete. Ii you want
High Class printing
at reasonable prices,
come to this oiricc.
$1.50 Per Year
L. A. E.s Meet
The Ladies' Auxiliary to the Engin
eers met last Thursday with a fair
number out. As so many are still away
on their vacations they expect to have
meetings every first and third Thursday
in the month from now on. After a
strenuous afternoon they hied them
selves to Wheeler's where a sundae
and cakes made them feel they were
glad to be there. Absent members
please take notice, the inspecter is due
here the fore part of October so please
come out.
COUNCIL PROCEEDINGS
At the regular meeting of the city
council last Tuesday evening consider
able important business was transacted.
An ordinance which was introduced,
if passed, will implicate the buyer of
liquor as well as the peddler. The
1917 budget will require 811,637,06
for expenditures in the several depart
ments of the city for the coming year.
A small number of bills were allowed,
amounting to $503.75. The salary of
city employes for August, $417.50,
being the larger part of the bills.
A cabin was ordered built at the in
take of the water system lor the use of
a watchman this winter.
The clerk was ordered to notify all
parties to repair unsafe sidewalks, and
fences and other property.
The building committee was ordered
to investigate the necessity of replank
ing the viaduct, with power to act.
The ordinance prohibiting the pur
chase of liquor, as introduced, reads as
follows:
Hirst. It shiill be unlawful fomny person
or persons to purchase within the Ottyof
I.i'iivenwoitn any Intoxicating liquor or
lkiuor- of iniy kind whatsoever except the
■ami i>o purchased under a prescription
provided by a physician
Beoond. It - tut ll be unlawful for any prr-
Mill or persons to have in bis, hep or tbelr
possession in any public Place or on any
street or alley within the city ol Leaven
worth, any Intoxicating liquors whatsoever
without a legal sale or purchase record
thereof, showing that tin- liquor was pro
cured under a proper permit or that it wax
procured under a proper prescription ol>
tnlned Within three (lays of the date that
■ueb record and permit or prescription 1^
exhibited.
Third. Ail liquors sold legally by drug
gists must carry a proper hiliel Indicating
tbe prescription under which it was filled,
giving the number of the prescription and
tin- < 1.- 11 ■ ■ it was tilled.
fourth. Hslmil Inl unlawful for any per
son to accept within the City ol Leaven
worth a gift of any Intoxicating liquors un
lesa men gift is under a Doctor 1! prescrlp.
Holland the package or bottle 1* properly
marked Indicating tbe prescription and the
date it was tilled.
Fifth. It shall be unlawful for anj person
to carry or transport from out- place t<>
another within the City of Leavenworl h or
from any place outside of the city many
point within the city of Leavenworthany
intoxicating lUiuor whatsoever that has not
been procured under :> proper and legal per
mit or under a Doctor's prescription; and
theChlef of Police i- hereby authorised to
examine or hold for examination any pack
ages, goods, bOXOSi Oases, barrels or other
thing in which lie suspects intoxicating
liquor is ("-ing curried.
Sixth. It shall he unlawful for any pei
son or persons whatssever to drink any in*
toxieatlng liquor of any kind « hatsoever In
any pool room, confectionery store, soft
drink establishment, drug store or in an]
public place whatsoever, in the city of
i ,<-a\ enworth.
Seventh. It shall be unlawful for any
person or persons operatingor conducting
a pool room, confectionery -tore, soft drink
establishment, drug -tore or any placi ol
business whatsoever to permit any person
or person! to drink nny intoxicating llquort
in any mob |i ace.
Klghth. Any person or person! I lolatlug
any of the term! and conditions "f thU
Ordinance shall, upon conviction, he fined
in any -uui not exceeding One Hundred
Dollar! lIuO.OCP, and in tbe event any per
son or person! violating unj- of the U
or condition! of this ordinance conduct
any place of business within the City of
I.eavcnwort h under a License, iuch UcentH
•hall t» forthwith cancelled.
On Monday last, in the absence ol
Magistrate Graham, Mayor Day dealt
out justice to a moral delinquent who
hailed from Dryden, md ;;ave the name
ri Vi.Pherson. He had been guilty of
imbibing too frequently of the forbidden
cup that cheers. He paid for his in
discretion $5 and costs.
] * iftrsTD'.t. TTwr? VitueoT #trtr"#l^»
tivts in Cashmere this week and then
went to Wenatchee to meet Mr. Town
who returned from the Okanogan coun
try where he spent a week.
For Sale —Almost new, Home Com
fort range. Household necessities,
saddle and disc records. Reasonable.
I C. W. Ellinger. 33
