O
COUNTY
FL
SOUTH BUSINESS U KJ
Auditor, County 1-1-11 A.
VOL XXXIII NO 20
WAUSEON, OIO, FRIDAY, AUGUST 25 1916
$1.50 PER YEAR
I
Wauseon's Fourth Chautauqua Notes From Platform
an (J Tent Things Worth Remembering
Pleasures That Benefit
Laat Thursday afternoon Wauseon's form our obligations as our brother's
Fourth Annual Chautauqua opened in keeper, how strengthen the weak,
the biff tent on East Leggett street. , care fur the hopelessly dependent, in
It was the second appearance of the , spire the delinquent and restore to
Redpath Chautauqua in our town and j usefulness in society the os-styled
it seemed good to see Superintendent ' criminal ?
Whitney on the streets once more. I These are questions of utmost im
Mr. Whitney has helped to fasten j portance and . Chaplain Kiplinger's
the Chautauqua habit on this com-: lectures contain many suggestions for
munity, and as this habit is a very successfully answering these ques
good habit for the community to form ; tions.
we cannot but look upon mm as a
sort of a community friend. The
tent didn't reach Wauseon. until a
little after midnight on Wednesday i
kept the Crew of college men step-
ping lively to get the tent ready for dience" away in a transport of de-
the afternoon and evening sessions ht It u 'difficuit to describe their
and the intermittent hght and dark- entertainment, one can only say that
ness at the Thursday evening ses- both the mu8ic and tne musicians are
kion due to no fault of the tent man- charming and carry within himself
agement was received good naturedly the pJaJkt memories of their per-
b?it!l.iSrn nK .udlenc a"d formance, hoping that some good for
added the spice of variety to the tune may brin 6 another opportunity
evening program. It was n a sense t hear d Be them
a test of the general courtesy and , t
good training of the juvenile portion L Everett Kemp's interpretation of
of the audience and they met the test'S" Bell Wright s book "That
in a manner that made us proud of ' Printer of Udell s '. was fine and
our Wauseon boys and girhu There brought home to the people who heard
was very little confusion from the t the absurdness and use lesness of
young folks aa the Music Makers falacies and foibles of ,the
juarie continued their part of the churches which that book exposed;
evening' program in the darkness fallacies and foibles which are fast
though there were some adults who ! disappearing before the spirit of
sdmed to think that the darkness : brotherliness and mutual helpfulness
gave them an excuse for carrying on which pervades the churches of the
an audible conversation while the present.
musicians were singing. That, the , Frank Dixon's lecture Friday even
annual Chautauqua is an institution inf? "Taking Stock of a Town might
from which the entire community de-jwell be an epoch marking event in
nves great benefit goes without say- the, history of this town if one half
ing and it ought to be the endeavor of the suggestions he made in the
of every one who has the privilege of course of his lecture were actually ap
hearing and seeing all or a part of I plied in the conduct of the town,
the annual program , to treasure up! . Mr. Dixon's lecture was searching
and pass on to their neighbors every and at times scathmg.it cut like a sur
bit of such benefit. There are many geon's scalpel, he advanced ideas that
things well worth remembering and undoubtedly were at variance with the
applying as occasion offers in the ideas held by a vast majority of his
personal and community life. The audience but there are ten chances to
pleasures afforded by the Chautau- one that the lecturer's ideas which
qua program are of such a character , are based upon the results bf search
that they benefit those who enjoy them ing investigations, are more nearly
and furnish material for many pleas-. right than are those who disagree
ant memories in the years to come, with him. '
Wa n not chronicle all the srood This lecture was the logical com-
things that are said, and done during I
tki. ...mh nf tHa rhantaiimia hut !
we shall try to reduce a little of it pealed to the individual as respohsi-jon the Athletic Park last Sunday af
.. .. k. littla m kaln nor hl for hia nersonal success or fail-1 ternoon. The score was 4 to 3 in
readers to remember a great deal
more.
Mr. Whitney introduced Miss
ru. I
Groff at the Thursday evening eaaioaj condition of his community and the
aa the lady who ha charge of tne I welfart of ha fellow citizens.
Junior Itedpath Club thi. year a..d The four points of the lcturewer
from- the outline of the program for, The Beauty of the .The Health
the boya and girls it wai possible to!of the town. Education and Govern
iraw no thJ oiwIu.Uhi tha- that ment : .. Firrt-wt acquainted with
these same bovs
19 boys and girls were going
td have a Very profitable ana enjoy
ahl time. Miss DeGroff announced
the winners of the 1916 Junior Red
path Club: The contest this year was
to make from letters contained in the
words. Junior Redpath Club, the larg
est number of words. Frieda Bour
quin won the first priza with 1703
words and Helen Eastman the second
prize with 1054 words.
The Music Maker's Quartet proved
themselves worthy of their name;
gbdd voices well blended and pleasing
personal presence. The1 Marimba
phone while unusual as a musical in
strument yielded soms very pleasing
melodies under the manipulation of
th$ quartet, especially fine was the
selection "Nearer My God To The" in
which the voices of the singers were
blended with the notes of the instru
ment Very appropriate in the fitful
light of torches and an auto head
light was the selection from Eugene
Field, "Seein Things At Night," as
sung and posed by the quartet.
Dr. William A. Colledge in his lec
ture on "The Mechanism of Personal
Power'said many things that every
person in the county, young and old
oua-ht to hear and consider; among
" them was his advocacy of more per-
!n. 7"JIZ "u'"r " "om
ihe part ot i Tvery dividual td develop 1 under difficulties in the big tent Sat
hi, am initiative, originality andiurday afternoon; the heavy thunder-
self control.. "Work left unfinished, is
no work at all. Do not pay too dear-, iui "'""-r - ul
ly for, your gold be careful to place continued until ..sometime after, he
arightLtimati on money and rememl would ordinarily have finished
ber that yon cannot make clean rnon-. program made it extremely .difficult
y out of a dirty business: These. to make himself heard and compell
were among the many important ; ed him to force his voice but with
things said by the lecturer and all i commendable persistence the tenor
that he said was reinforced by con- ( continued h program until nearly
eta illustrations from real life and four o'clock and demonstrated .the
actual experience. remarkableHone qualities of his voice
. Friday morning Miss DeGroff began1 as well as wonderful powers of inter
ner wort with the Juniors much to pretation. In spite of the handicap
their delight and Chaplain Kiplinger-he. pleased his audience and made
began his series of valuable and in- them wsh to hear him again under
teresting. lectures on a subject, of more favorable conditions Chaplain
growing and vital Importance to the.i yil"
people of this country, viz. the prob- Weal", was omitted on account of the
lem of the weaker members of society,1 torm - a
the dependent delinquent and violators , "The Servant in the House on Sat
of the law.. How, may we best per- . itontwuef an past Eight)
The Public is Cordially Invited
To Attend
Christian Science
By William W. Porter, C. S. -B.
of New York
Member of the Board of Lectureship of. the Mother
Church, the First Church of Christ,
Scientist in Boston, Mass.
At the Court House in Wauseon
Sunday Afternoon, Sept. 3d, 1916
at 3:00 o'clock
Come and hear this great lecture and learn what
Christian Science is.
Under the auspices of the Christian Science Society
of Wauseon.
A
The Maurer Sisters are favorites
with the Wauseon people; they cap
Jd thVVigh School Ln
tured them last year when they ap
Course, on Friday afternoon and
onAninrii Vi Air foii-ltr tt i orl tit a it mi.
pliment of Dr. Coliedge s lecture on
Thuradav nicht. Dr. Colledee aD-
ure and his status ' among his
fellowmen. Mr. Dixon appealed 10
a a m a 1
the individual as responsible ior me
your w u . ,
in IS is vo nave a cuiw "uw""
make an unbiased survey of conditions
thev are.. Plan your town for
years to come as great business cor
porations plan their business. What
was said about dirty food supplies,
impure milk, flies, the average health
officer and a few other matters along
the same line was food for thought
for the thoughtful for some time to
come and out of it ought to come some
practical ideas that might be applied
locally. The plan for military train
ing and discipline of High School boys
as carried out in the state of Wyoming
seemed to us sensible, wise and feas
ible. The one most practical sug
gestion made by this lecturer, to our
minds, was that a Community Wel
fare Association, representing all the
people of the community be organ
ized. What has been accomplished
by the women of the Civic Club and
the men of the Boosters Club in Wau
seon is to our minds an indication of
the larger work which might be- ac
complished by an association includ
ing all the people and representing all
the interests of the town, working
together for the common interests and
the progress of the community.
Siraor Giuseppe Bartolotta, the
Italian tenor eave his matinee recital
shower whiA came, just at the hour
on
LEISURE
SERIOUS CATTLE PLAGUE
The Metamora Record of last week
contained an account of the loss of
18 young cattle from a herd belong
ing to Edward Myers and Thomas
Irwin farmers living near Metamora.
The cattle were in a pasture near
Swanton when Mr. Myers discover
ed that some of the animals were
hick: a veterinarian was called who
recommended plenty of salt, better feed
ana care, some of the steers died and
Mr Myers drove the remainder of!
the herd to his own farm iust west1
of laragher Dr. P. T. Carpenter j
was called and diagnosed the malady
as hemorrhagic septicemia, an extre-:
mely virulent germ disease, fatal inlW. C. T. U. entertained most hospi
95 out of every 100 cases and in-itably and made all feel at home,
curable. I Mrs. Lulu Plettner, County Pres
Dr. Smith of the State Veterinar- ident, presided. Mrs. Holt of Swan
lan's office was called and confirmed
the diagnosis. The disease wheh is
both infectious and contagious1 is very
rare in Ohio and had never before
been heard of in this vicinitv. 1 Tt
begins with fever and acute inflama- j say contests in the public schools;
tion; death occurs in from 6 to 36;and the distribution of temperance
hours. literature. ,
The state veterinarian advised the I ' Frances E. Fuller, State Vice
prompt slaughter of the remainder President was the guest of the con
of the infected herd, the fumigation vention, and brought greetings from
and disinfection of buildings and the state officers. She conducted the
yards, the slaughter of any animals election of officers which resulted as
showing symptoms of the disease and! follows: President, Mrs. Edith Doren,
burial of the carcasses in lime. Swanton; Vice-President, Mrs. Lulu
Plettner, Wauseon; Rec. Sec. Mrs. B.
COUNTY CENTRAL COMMITTEE C. Eldredge, Swanton; Cor. Sec. Mrs.
The Republican County Central ; Hettie Cameron, Delta; Treas., Mrs.
Committee met at the court house; Stella Stevens, Tedrow.
last Saturday afternoon; twenty-two j An abundant "pot-luck" luncheon
out of the twenty-five committeemen i was served at noon. j
elected at the primary election Aug- j A very interesting program was
ust 8th were present. Organization givn in the afternoon, including read
was effected by choosing Roll Hoy offings by Mrs. Todd, Mrs. Fauver.andj
Wauseon chairman and George Ever-1 Miss Lower. A splendid original pa
ett of Delta secretarv . Selection of 'no.
the executive committee resulted inlon "The Traitor Under The Flag."
the appointment of J. F. Outcalt, Fine music was furnished under 1
wauseon, chairman, O. W. Curtis, the direction of Mrs. Curry, of Delta.!
Swanton, secretary and the following The ladies quartette in the after-1
members: Ed. Hendricks, Meta-noon and the men's quartette in the
mora; George Le. Morenci, Mich; evening were worth v of special men.!
George Halauer, Wanseon; C. K. Mil- j tion, also the solos by Mrs. Curry, Mr.
ler, Fayette and H. R Snyder, Delta. Drennan and Miss Bundy.
o o tit t?d t n ken of their appreciation of
S. S. W'ORKERS TO MEET I the efficient service rendered by the
Field secretary, Arthur G. Valen- retiring County President, Mrs. Plett
tine has called a- meeting of officers ner, Mrs. Reighard of Delta, in behalf
and township superintendents of the of the convention in cordial words pre
Sulton countv Sunday School Asso- isented Mrs. Plettner with a purse,
ciaton also all the Sunday School Su-!ghe responded happilly.
perintendents of the county, to be! Mrs. Frances E Fuller gave the
held in the Methodist church in Wau- nftpmonn aHHrPss on "The Home
Sean atm,2:30 p m- Sunday September Makers based on Frances Willard's
3rd. The purpose is to plan for theiWOrds It is the aim of the white rib
years work, get acquainted and con- bon women to make the whole world
sider several important questions
The help of all who are interested
in Sunday School work is needed and
earnestly solicited. Pastors are ask
ed to be nresent at this meteing and (
help in planning this important work 1
of the Kingdom. . .
BASE BALL
The Wauseon .Indians defeated the
t-. l . . . i - ,.
favor of Wauseon The battery
'worn 01 ueer ana wagon ior vau-:
lA l t J.. xl
aeon was me nig leuiuie 01 me game.
This is the third in a series of trames
between Delta and Wauseon, Wauseon
has won two out of the three. j
feesif - "ja.. ' v.
i V LLt' -ir-ma.aWiiii-rV i'l JSftr a N' aaWwwaaag-aaEaaemw -jj
III '
GEORGE
Pythian Building
Store Phone 467
W. C. T. U. of Fulton County Held
Interesting Convention at Swanton
Inspiring
Program Resolutions
Sound No Uncertain Note.
A large delegation of white ribbon-
ers held a most interesting County
Convention at the Swanton Methodist
Church, August 16th. The Swanton
ton . gave a cordial welcome Mrs
Stevens of Tedrow responded ably.
The reports of county officers and
local presidents showed the work
feature has been the temnerance es-
a home."
The resolutions committee reported
as follows: '
PROHIBITION
Resolved that we rejoice in the ad
vance of prohibition, in the fact that
we have 19 dry states, and that 80
per cent of the population live in no
licanse territory. We pledge our in-
ureasniK euuiia wi mane vyiiiu mi
ment for national constitutional pro
hibition. TOTAL ABSTINENCE
Believing- as Abraham Lincoln said !
that all law to be effective should first i
be written in the people's hearts,
Resolved, that we continue to work
Straube and Hammond
At The George A.
Wauseon, Ohio
for increased membership and to push
our department work as the best
means of advancing total abstinence
and of outlawing the liquor traffic in
state and nation.
..FRANCHISE
We rejoice in the growing senti
ment for equal suffrage as shown by
the fact that the two leading politi
cal parties have endorsed it in their
platforms and that the voters of 12
states have enfranchised their women.
Believing that women's vote would be
the surest and quickest way of pro
tecting the home and the children,
Resolved, that we redouble our ed
ucational work for woman's ballot.
Resolved, that we have been royal
ly welcomed and generously entertain
ed by the White Ribboners of Swanton
and Fulton County. To them, and to
the pastor, and trustees for the use of
the church, and to all who have added
to the interest and success of our
meeting, we extend our heartiest
thanks, and assure them that we like
their fellowship so well that we are
anxious to return in the near future.
Mrs. Adah Bowser.
, 1 Mrs. Nettie Sweeney.
, Mrs. Lyle Smith.
The evening program was a fitting
close to a successful day. Fine music
was rendered by Eva Eldredge, Mr.
Drennan, Mrs. Curry. " Recitations
were ably given by, Gladys Somers
and MissJBoyer.
' The evening address on the topic,
"Dreams That Come True" was giv
en by Mrs. Fuller.
Thus closed a most successful con
vention, ' One Who Was There.
QUEEN OF THE FAIR
Who shall be Queen of Fulton
County? And who will be the lucky
ktiy to receive the handsome $350.00
Pia" free ? ' , "
These are the two questions up
permost in Fulton county this week,
as the big County Fair popularity
contest enters the last week and last
lap of the race.
In every township contestants are
basy making . a quiet canvas for votes
and at. this moment the closing days
of the big contest promises to be
lively ones with the lady contest
ants.. v
Remember the time left is very
brief and just a little more work on
your part may win for you one of the
beautiful prizes. Either the piano,
the beautiful bed room suite or the
diamond ring, each of these are val
uable and worth the effort.
Don't forget the plan and it is not
too late for you to try yet. The lady
receiving the largest number of votes
in each township will be oualified to
enter .the, big contest at the fair, and
will also be . entertained by the fair
company free of charge.
Our last word is get fcusy on
vote getting and win one of the
prizes.
Township contest closes Aug.
at seven o'clock, p. m.
the
big
26
Attend the free lecture on Chris
tian Science at the Court House Sun-
day. afternoon, September 3rd at 3
o'clock. Come out and hear what
(Christian Science is from one who
j knows. t
Heath's Piano
lie
Orafonola
will produce for you the
beautiful songs of x
Alice Nielsen
who charmed her Chautauqua
Audience at Wauseon on Thurs
day, evening.
'Miss Nielsen sings for the Co
lumbia records exclusively.
We have in stock a full line of
the Nielsen records.
Grafonalas in sizes, styles and
at prices to suit all buyers.
Let us demonstrate for you.
A. HEATH
South Fulton Street
THE OPEN ROAD
Three Wauseon Boys En Route, Wau
seon to Niagara Falls Motorcycle
Trip The Road as It Is Notes By
The Way.
The following letter written from
Erie, Pennsylvania by Walter S. Mc-i-.ain
will be of real interest to many
of the Tribune readers as showing
now ' three Wauseon boys and two
motorcycles can combine to make an
interesting and pleasant vacation
trip.
Erie, Pa., Thursday, Aug. 17th.
To The Tribune:
Erie, Pennsylvania is quite a good
-sized city; having its own street rail
way and being situated fairly well in
a commercial way has undoubtedly
been a large help toward its growth.
The three of us; Walter and Fred Bat
aorf and myself, left Wauseon on
Tuesday the 15th and arrived in To
ledo at 10:30 all O. K.
After getting a fwe necessities,
such as road maps, etc., we made
ready to start; left Toledo about 12
o'clock. Soon, out of the city limits
we struck some bad roads and were
forced to make a detour of six miles.
From then .on we had fairly good
roads until we reached Clyde, Ohio,
where another detour of four miles
awaited us. Here we filled up on gas
and proceeded on our way. We struck
a small burg for dinner at 1:30! We
had a good stretch of road until we i
came to Norwalk where we found our
lirst real hills. Just east of Norwalk
we came to a steep hill one fourth of
a mile long and stones on the. ascent
as large as a persons two hands. By
some hard riding we got over, al-i
though it seemed almost impossible.
We passed through a dozen or more
towns among which was Oberlin
where the college of the same name
is located. Here we began picking up
the Lincoln Highway signs which we
followed, just about seven miles' from
the center of Cleveland we participat
ed in a traffic jam, coming out all
O. K. with a bent stand. Some peo
ple think it is hard driving in the
city in day time, but I rode in with no
light, following Fred and Walter on
their machine. Arrived at the Ameri
can Hotel at 10:30 where we put up
for the night. On Wednesday morn
ing I went to visit one of our former
High School teachers, Miss Gladys
Bicknell, who takes this means of
sending greetings to her many Wau
seon friends. After a pleasant half
hour at her home, we left Cleveland
striking some bad roads; immediately,
we pushed up two hills and had one
spill and two bad skids, but no 'dam
age done. This part of the ride was
the most beautiful of all. After leav
ing Euclid avenue we came out on the
Euclid avenue road which is of brick
and concrete. I believe it would make
our farmers back home sit up and
take notice, to see the beautiful build-
( Continued on page Eight)
Store
Oolumbia
Residence Phone 574
VINTON KINGSLEY
Vinton Kingsley, son of Mr. and
Mrs. George A. Kingsley died very
suddenly at his home in La Porte, Ind.
last Sunday at 10:30 a. m. The news
comes as a shock to a large circle of
friends and comrades of Vinton's in
Wauseon who have known him from
infancy through the earlier years of
his boyhood. His father, Mr. G. A.
Kingsley was for many years agent
of the New York Central Lines at this
and was transferred to La Porte from
here. Death came unexpectedly; he
had some bowel trouble and a physi
cian had been called who informed him
on the day before he died that he
would be up and about in a day or
two. . Acute inf lamation of the bow
els developed and he died Sunday Aug.
ust 20th, as noted above.
Vinton was born at Otis, Indiana,
and was but three months past seven
teen years of age at the time of his
death; a young man of sturdy Chris
tian character and weilding an influ
ence for good by his consistent life,
his departure is a real loss. The
family have the sincere sympathy of
their many friends and former neigh
bors in Wauseon.
Funeral services were held from the
reisdence in LaPorte Tuesday and in
terment at Clayton, Michigan.
" INFANTILE PARALYSIS
From Washington and New York
the report comes that surgeons and
medical men who are working to check
the epidemic of infantile paralysis
have made some important discoveries
in regard to the cause of this disease
and a specific for it and ae onlv wait
uig io ue sure oi tneir ground Deiore
making public announcement. The
disease is waning in New York Citv.
The following advice to parents- is
sued by the "New York Board of
Health is applicable everywhere.
Keep your house or aoartment ab
solutely clean. Go over all woodwork
daily with a damp, cloth. Never al
low dry sweeping. Screen vour win
dows against flies. Do not allow
garbage to accumulate. Kill all
forms of vermin such as bed bugs
and roaches. ray special attention
to bodily cleanliness. Give your
children a bath every day and see
that all clothing is clean. Keep your
children by themselves as much as
possible. Do not take your children
with you 1 when you go shopping.
Do not allow your children to be kiss
ed."
A CLOSE CALL
While working a team on their farm !
four miles southeast of Wauseon last;
Saturday afternoon, Earl, son of Eu
gene Ualbraith was driven to the i
barn on account of a heavy electrical
storm, and upon arriving there ro
ceeded to remove the harness from
his team, while doing so the horse
which he was removing the harness
from was struck by lightning and in
stantly killed. The boy was shocked
and at first was thought to be se
verely injured, but on- Monday morn
ing, although the muscles in his arms
and shoulders were very sore, he was
able to resume work. It is supposed
the lightning entered the stable door
which was standing open as there
was no evidence of lightning in any
other part of the barn . The horse
m 'fn.11vtmanrMl - in tho t"ni avawn -
ers Insurance Co. through tneir
agents Jas. Grisier & Son.
STRUCK BY LIGHTENING
The home of Robert Sweeney on Ot
tokee street in the north end of town
was struck by lightning during the
electrical storm last Saturday after
noon; fortunately the building did
not catch fire though the alarm was
given and the fire department re
sponded. The lightning entered the
house at the northwest corner of the
building tore out door and window
casings and knocked off considerable
plastering in one room besides throw
ing pictures from the walls and. gen
erally disarranging the furniture.
Mrs. Sweeny and lady visitor from
Lyons who were in a room at least
twenty feet from the point at which
the lightning entered the building
were stunned by the shock but no
one was seriously injured.
FINANCIALLY A SUCCESS
The Redpath Chautauqua received
an unqualified endorsement from the
people of this vicinity this year in the
suport given it by the purchasers of
season tickets. F. A. Barber report
ed for the local conimittee at the
Chautauqua tent Monday evening the
sale of 64 more tickets than were nec-;
essary to meet the guarantee of $1500.
The surplus or proht will be placed in
the bank together with last year's
profit to be used later for something
that will be of benefit to the whole
community. The large audience
seemed unanimous in their desire for
the Redpath Chautauqua again next
year.
Attend the free lecture on Chris
tian Science at the Court House Sun
day afternoon, September 3rd at 3i
o'clock. Come out and hear what
Christian Science is from one who
knows.
T R E S T :I:;;a ;
III . When a check is received bearing . j
HI the name, "First National Bank", it' ; 3 lill
IIU - carries with it prestige and the re- ? ll'l
HI cipient knows the maker of the check ill!
HI has sound banking connections. j
I II In offering the services of this bank,
I II we are placing at your disposal bank- .
I II ing relations that must reflect to your,-. ' - l
IIU advantage in all your business II II
IIU dealings, which is prestige. - . mi
First National Barfk
I "The BANK-BY-MAIL Baa" . ' US
IWauseon, - - - - Ohio ,
HISTOHlCftL FACTS
Protective Tariff vs Free Trade in The
History of The United States From
1812 to 1916 Just a Few Facts In
Regard To Effect of Tariff Change
on Industrial Conditions.
In the early history of our country
the principal occupation of our people
residing in the thirteen colonies scat
tered along the Atlantic Coast was
Agriculture and Commerce. In the
North the bleak and stony hills of
New England gave little encourage
ment to Agriculture and here at least
the occupation was Commerce. ,
The Schooner of the Yankee skip
per was found on all the seas and our
Yankee Master with their trading
vessels engaged in barter in every.
Port in the world. Then it was that
we had a merchant Marine and were
fast becoming leaders in the carry
ing business of the seas when the
great War broke out in Euroie be
tween France and England. The Com
merce of our country was practically
destroyed by the infamous orders of
both Napoleon and England and be
ing weak and not able to defend the
freedom of the seas we were com
pelled to accept the inevitable. Congress
under the leadership of Jefferson
passed an Embargo Act which was
very unpopular and was - nicknamed
!the "O Grab Me Act."This act sound
ed the death -knell to the American
Commerce on the high seas and
American capital began to interest it
self in the Industry of Manufactur
ing. . '
Following the War of 1812 our
country was flooded with foreign im
portations. To meet this Competition
the American manufacturer was forc
ed to reduce the price of his. goods
and labor or Seek some kind of Pro
tection. He naturally felt at that
time that as he paid taxes for the
support of the State and employed
domestic labor he should have first
chance at the American Markets.
Accordingly Congress passed 1816
a Protective Tariff which was at that
time thought to be highly Protective.
It failed however to stop the over
transportation of foreign goods which
condition brought on a financial de
pression in the year 1819 . and Con-
gress was forced to again raise the
Tariff which it did by the Act of 1824.
During this period the cause of Pro
tective Tariff was Championed by
Henry Clay and John C. Calhoun and
opposed by Daniel Webster.
Following the Tariff of 1824 the
Country entered an era known as the
era of good feeling. This was an era
of Prosperity and great National de
velopment. During this era the Erie
Canal -was opened aaid the first rail
road built. During this period John
CL Calhoun changed his views from
Protective Tariff to Tariff for Reve
nue only and Daniel Webster came
over to the Protective Tariff , side.
The tariff now began to receive vio
lent opposition from the Southern Sec-
itioa and to satisfy Southern States
-ouj.Kica reviaeu ine iwm aown-
mu an Lilt: yeaira ui. xoo. una loda.
This was, followed by what is known
as the Great Panic of 1837. . In 1842
the Whig party carried into power on
a Protection Plank in their platform
restored the Tariff. Then Democra
tic "rule succeeded the. Whig and the
Tariff was revised do wnard in 1846
and again in 1857. The finances of
the Nation again were shipwrecked on
the shoals of financial depression
known as the panic of 1857. In 1860
Abraham Lincoln was elected presi
dent and during his administration
the Tariff was restored and became
the settled policy of the Nation for a
long period, a period of progress and
good times. In 1881 the Tariff was '
revised followed by a slight financial
depression. In 1892 the Democratic
Party came into power under the
leadership of Grover Cleveland with
a free trade plank in their platform
and the Panic of '92 insued. Then
again we elected William : McKinley ;
and with a new Tariff Law went again
into the field of prosperity. Our
latest Tariff Law is one that does not
meet the needs of revenue only, and
it was followed by a business depres
sion until the- European War. relieved
the situation by giving us the markets
of the world without competition.
DAVIS B. JOHNSON.
.67TH REUNION
The 40th 'Annual Reunion . of the
67th O. V. V. I. will be held at Fay
ette . Thursday September 27th.. A
i good dinner will be furnished, Mrs.
Lena Curry will sing; all comrades are
urged to be present. If you cannot
come write the secretary, M. P. San
derson, Berkey, Ohio, so that your old
comrades may know that you have not
forgotten them S. A. Jones, of Fay-
ette, is president of the
Association
and Theo. Sebnng of the same place
I vice-president.. .- N
