,. . . - ' J-C.'StfH.
2' .? :
Ili,)
vHIl
he (Civiunimi
j. "r - V'-
t if hy Largest Weekly Circulation in -i-
l Northern Arizona
4"
A Modern Printery
:
Official Stock Paper of Northern V.
Arizona
Fine Commercial Printing
: : : :
VOLUME XXXIII
FLAGSTAFF, ARIZONA, PRIDAY, AUGUST 25,1916
NUMBER 42
SMMaOurMu.... . -
f,iTiTHTiif'irnifrfflffTriiiiF'iirB .
ilmmMSmtmmmJ' 1-
& l!wlKsnrK4,nxT' Ww vtCmF:
WMPrfwsK jaW:: ti;.?iyfflSFTOrt?? "
TfJVVHC.Ji If. .' A,w: v "' ' WT3T3,V rj" lrTV v '
r 3HwM'
,t i'va&fltsttt: vt - -v -. 'i -'---" i
.
" "HHHP"
$Ilt1
fl
LA
Otn
S
V
?aMMS8&
"VZ ?ftroHNMfew"
r .. k
i :W. It
d
SUCCESS AND HARMONY
-. IPOBLICANWATCHWORD
The '"get-together" meeting of -the
Flagstaff and Williams Republican
clubs lost Monday evening brought
out a -representative gathering of the
people of both places, including a
large 'number of ladies -who are tak
ing a hearty interest in -political af
faire of the county, state and nation
this year.
There were over a hundred people
present to take part in the informal
Smallpox.Casc Found
At Snpai Among Mexicans
A smallpox casewasIfoundatSupa'i
the first of the week by County Health,
Officer Manning, and the entire gang
of Mexican laborers were quar
antined. '
The Northern Arizona Sunday
School Convention will miet n "Klnir-
The laborer is one of a number thatdtaif Saturday nwl Sunday of this
was recently "brought Into the coun
try from old Mexico Tor work on the
Tallroad. It is too early as yet to
ascertain whether or not others have,
been Infected with 'the disease.
"Previous cases of smallpox brought
tinto the country has cost taxpayers
affair and thcro were many good'ovnr sr.nnn niui th ?n n ,inM,ina
speeches by the .different candidates fcoInB that if thc Sjmta Fe muat uge
ior oiuces, an oi tnem portending n , tn1a cass of hcl thev shoul(, ,. ..,
- . .
to stand tho responsibility for bring
ing them in.
republican year for the republicans
from top to bottom.
Tho warm race for a couple of the
nominations on the ticket has incited
democratic brethren to hope for a
fight that would tend to weaken tho
ticket this fall, but tho friendly ex
pressions of tho different candidates,
dispelled any doubt as to whole
hearted friendliness and a thorough
desire for the success of the party.
Among those present from Wil
liams were, Jerry Lee, candidate for rw,i.
".2 STlES!. b".Dr- '-
L. FINLEY TAKES
ONTO HIMSELF A WIFE
Sam L. Finley, the famous -poet,
editor of Finlcy's Store News, owner
of 'the big general store and member
of the city council, was married last
evening to Mrs. Mary E.
DELEGATES ASSEMBLING TOR ANNUAL
:n.a.
L G0NVEN1I
The wedding was a complete snr- "2:00 Devotional Rev. J
didatcs for the nomination for state
representative; John R. Sweeney, can
didate for tho office of county asses
sor. Each one brought encouraging
news from the west end of the coun-
ty and advised those present what j
they expected to do when elected. n , v!o , . , i ;"
At the conclusion of the -rcitular r "TZ :."'" V ' ""' " , Pcny.
n pxtrn ...! I T """'" """ "" ,nK""ff lflat ttlC - 2:15-Thc
-... w,wm.. hnnnt. nvnnt wa t .lrt .lnMA
The new Mrs". Finley came to Flag
staff from Texas about a year ago,
and is a sister of Mrs". B. Lee of this!
city.
week. Delegates from thc northern
part of the state are expected to be
in' attendance. Thc Saturday sessions
will be held at the conference grounds
and thc Sunday sessions in the Fed
erated church.
The Sunday -schools will meet as'
usual Sunday morning. Rev. E. D.
Raley, general secretary of Sunday
school -work 'in Arizona and "New "Mex
ico will speak at thc Episcopal
church service, antl Rev. W. D. Himo
baugh will fill tho pulpit at the Fed
erated church. The program for the
convention is as follows:
PROGRAM
Saturday TMforning at Conference
Grounds
10:30 Devotionp'l Rev. Austin R.
B. Chinn.
10:45 Social hunger of -the adoles
cent and the churches' obligation
Miss Margaret Moore.
11:00 Teaching the adolescent
Rev. E. D. Ralcy.
2:45 The elementary standard of
'efficiency Mrs. Frank Curtis.
3:00 Discussion.
3:20 Some practical experiments
"Mr. N. F. "HofFpauir. '
3:40 Discussion.
j 4:10 Business session.
Sunday Afternoon at Federated
Church
Theme Thc Efficient Sunday School
2:30 Devotional Rev. E. W.
Boone.
2:45 The Superintendent Mr. F.
HI. Gold.
3:00 The Assistant Superinten
dent Mr. IV. D. Himebaugh.
3:10 The Secretary Mr. C. H.
Appleton.
"3,:25 Thc Librarian Mrs. H. E.
Johnson.
3:35 The Trained Teacher Mr. J.
F. Walker.
4:00 Discussion. of preceding top
ics. 4:30 Adjournment,
j Sunday Evening at Federated
I Church
8:00 Song service,
Larson, both can- the Fc(Ieratcd church parsonage, with
on.y wnncsscs -present -at uio cere- ll:30-Discussion of preceding top- J ., 8:20-Supday schools and missions,
n i. : -.,.. .. t , 1CS: . . . . i1 rId on-Rcv. 'Alfred Edgar.
. VJ "- ''.,., waan. r2:uu uaskct luncli. , ! M0 Sunday schools and the nm
geies on a wedding trip, taking the "Saturday Afternoon at Conference ;"hibition amendment Mr. CTJ. Clark.
limited train at Vao. OmnnHs . All nnrsnn- w,'oT,: f oj !..
"--"" -T-" I 4 v- " " "4U4IMIK VU UhlUllll LI1II
Next Governor's Injuries Not
As Bad as First Reported
Ttfext Governor Campbell's injuries,
received at the Red Lake barbecue
last week, were not as serious as were
supposed at first. Aside from a very
narrow escape and a few bruises he is
as good as ever and is out on his
campaign tour of thc state.
Instead of being bucked off, as first
reported, thc horse he was riding,
with Jim Smith up behind the saddle,
Tcared and fell over. Smith was able
to clear himself easily, but Campbell,
with the handicap of a man behind
him, was unable to do so completely.
Thc saddle horn tore the clothing on
"his breast and a few inches more
-would have been fataL
FOREST SERVICES START
WORK WVAiLEY ROAD
It is announced that K. C. Balcomb,
of thc forest engineering department,
has left for Winslow to begin con
struction on p seven-mile section of
new road between Long Valley and
Sutton's ranch, on the Coconino na
tional forest Navajo and Coconino
COUNTY OFFICIALS MAKE
PRESCOTTJFFICIAL VISIT
County Attorney C. B. Wilson, Su
pervisor Chas. WoolfolkHcalth Offi
cer Thos. Manning and County Treas
urer S. S. Acker, left Wednesday
morning via auto 'for Prescott to hold
a conference with the Prescott county
officials. ' JT
One thing that will be taken up
with them that has been troubling Co
conino county for some time, is an
even break on taxes paid for tran
sient bands of sheep and cattle, since
it is claimed that Yavapai county. is
claiming much more than is their
legtimate share of this tax money. "' ,
For the information of thc unini
tiated, there is a law on the statute
books which compels stockmen own
ing either' sheep or cattle to make
a sworn statement as to the length of"
time their cattle and sheep have been
in each county during thc year; the
amount of taxes paid by the owner
is divided up, or supposed to be divid-'-ed
up on this basis between thc dif
ferent counties.
Dr. Manning will take up the mat
ter of who should be held responsible
for the care and quarantine expenses-'
session were was an
in which ice cream, cake and cigars
were generally circulated, terminat
ing the meeting in a real social event"
as well ns a political one.
Two additional vice presidents -were
elected at this meeting, Mrs. Bertha
TCennedy, who will appoint a commit
tee to assist her in the work of or
ganizing tho women voters of the
city, and Gerald T. Wall. Both were
elected by acclamation,
NO.
7 WRECKED THURSDAY
AT CARRIZA TWO INJURED
Train No. 7, westbound and due at
Rlotnc.
W. Ep-. convention Saturday are requested to
j meet on the court house lawn, where
Bible story R. H. H. transportation committee will take
- them to thc conference grounds.
New Trading Post Going Up
At Little Colorado Bridge
i Flagstaff at 8:08 o'clock, -was wrecked Mr. Richardson has one other trading
Messrs. H. Richardson and E. F.
Haldeman are having buildings erect
ed at thc Little Colorado bridge on I During his term of office, five have
the Tuba road, where they will con-1 been convicted of mur.dcr in the first
duet a general Indian trading post. ( degree, ope of manslaughter, two of
HAS COUNTY ATTORNEY WILSON
NEGLECTED HIS-DUTY?
The next rccular mectincr of thr Thursday evening at Carriza, a small post which is located on the reserva
club -will be be held at the same place station sx" miles west of Adamana, ) tion to the north, which was cstab
and'hour next Monday evening. ' ani' tnc engine and three baggage Hshcd some years ago. '
. cars turned over. JThCijEain was in . Mr Richardson arrived in Flagstaff
WP.'vL. ' cars turnc" ovw. Thc,irain was ii
Ha'rrjTEmbach Latest Out charge of Conductor Nohl and En
rape, ten of asault with a deadly wea
pon as against one acquittal; eight of
aggravated assault as against one nc
iijt.ii; five "of assault and battery,
ohc of attempted arson, sixteen of
vestcrdoy with his family and will go forgery, seven of burglary, one of
For State Representative E'ic" Robert Moore and Fireman to the new location to look after the bigamy, twenty-five of grand larceny
Harris. ' construction work. , as against four acquittals: two of cm-
Both the engineer and fjreman were J. W. Stecvenson is one of the main bezzlement, one of wife abandonment,
slightly injured by jumping. The builders doing thc work for the new twenty-seven violations of thc pro-
'"m. hibition amendment as against six ac-
' quitals; one selling mortgaged prop-
V ill Build Fine Residence , crty, two obtaining money under false
Mr. J. C. Kelly has purchased three pretenses and one practicing medicine
. residence lots on Capital hill, just without a license, making a total of
There was only one democratic can
didate in thc field for the nomination
for state representative until early wrecker from Winslow, went immc'
this week, when Harry Embach threw -diatcly to tho scene of thc accident,
his hat in the ring and filed his nom- The tra'n s delayed several hours, i
ination papers as an cntryman in thc . -
race. , R. A. Cameron Will Be a
Harry has been a resident of Ari-1 Candidate for Supervisor wcst of Jfrs- Kennedy, from Babbitt one hundred and fifteen convictions as
zona for tho past ten years, most of j i Bros., and has let a contract to J. E. against twelve acquittals. The above
which time he has been a resident of j jjcrt Cameron who for th t Hnnna for a ncw $5000 n0"ie. Mr. were superior court cases and do not
this county. For a few years he held tnrce ycarg l , his h t Kcll' has a flrm bell'cf fn the future include innumerable misdemeanor
a responsible position in the Prescott ' r,H r,, v,,. ., ir? : of TpstofL and added three lots to ' cases disposed of equally favorably to
National bank. He returned to Flag-J i of bSc a candidate for th" ' h'S holHin in the JIount EI,In a'- the count in iusti courts. Do the
staff a number of years ago and went LnmInnffnn ,. .M,I: l.l I (litlon. -a1 intends building four cot-1 voters and taxpayers of Coconino
into the cattle business for himself, ' fnr ti, m nf ' taR03 tnerc- In addition to this he county wish a continuation of this rec
...:u - i l . . .. i -w" " v....v. w.
with a headquarters ranch at Belle-
mont He has made cood at the busi
supervisor.
He is one of the best known men
has purchased thc D. E. Schnebly res- ord? Republican primaries, Septem-
idencc on Uirch street The city has , ber 12, 191G.
cattlemen have endorsed his candi
dacy for the legislature.
He is a young man and one who is
classed as a real live wire by all his
associates, and he believes that ho can
bo of good service to the people of
the county whom he desires to rep
resent in tho law-making body.
straightening out the tangled accu
mulation of years. He was accurate
and correct in his work, with a splen
did memory for details, which stands a
public officer in good stead; his time
and effort was given to public work,
thc work ho was paid for.
Mr. Cameron can consistently ask
the support of the people for this of
fice on tho grounds of efficiency and
ability to handle their work, with no
A Little Loved One Gone
Charles Henrv. need thmn nmi
half years, son of Mr. and Mrs. ax to ffrmd. but witli the purpose of . twe'en Parks and Williams, and is one ( developing a large area of good range
ness and is now one of the resnonsi-' . county, navmg lived here for (been making a rapid growth in the!
ble cattlemen of the county. Itnc Pf1 ycar8 an" Is considered northwest quarter during the past I A record of law enforcement vs. a
He was educated at thc Northwest- ?"e .of .tho vc' ,best posted mcn on ! year. i promise. C. B. Wilson for County At-
ern University of Chicago,, is a young1 "UB""-"ao """"a una nec8 o
man of exceptional ability and onc I fP10 the county to be found with
who would fittingly represent the peo-1 in its limits- .
pie of tho county if elected to the' He was county assessor for two
place he seeks. j terms, serving under both republican
Because of his knowledge of range an democratic boards of supervisors,
and stock conditions, aside from hisTncro wcro few things that he did
natural ability, both thc sheen and.not (1'R into with a purpose of
lorner.
Assistant State Engineer Marries
Mr. Benjiman Capp' Ward was mar- lut in Pumping Plant to
Devclopc Permanent Stock Water
ried at the Federated church last
Tuesday evening to Miss Edna Lo-
rcne Uleson. R0xy Duel, thc all-around gasoline
The very pretty ring service was engine and pump man, who is also
used by Dr. Thomas Hambly and per- owner of power sheep shearing plant
formed in the presence of a few in-' which he uses during the winter
timatc friends, including Mr. and months in the southern country, re
hire. Frank Goodman of the same turned the first of the week from th
state department "White Mcs'a country, northeast of
At the conclusion of the ceremony t Flagstaff, where he had installed a
the young people celebrated the, pumping plant for Babbitt Bros,
happy event with a wedding dinner, They recently sunk a well near thc
at thc Commercial hotel. ( Little Colorado ajid secured a .per-
Mr. Ward is assistant state en-. manent supply of water. A pumping
gincer in charge of the road construe- plant was put in to raise the water
lion worK Doing .done by the state be-, to the surface for stock Durooses. thui
Charles H. Adams, passed away early j riving the people a business adminis-1 of the most popular young men in the ' heretofore unused because of the lack
tration in thc best interests of the
whole people of the county.
yesterday morning after a few davs'
illness. '
A few days ago ho was taken ill,
developing a caso of spinal meningi
tis, and while all that could be done
for him was done, he passed into the
great beyond, leaving heart-stricken
iv ,VA, , lurevcr me ioss oi , iow into trouble the first of each
me nine one wno nad in so few short
The Yellow Peril Has Arrived
Gene "Slim" Henderson, the young
pirate who reads the water meters
for the city and invariably gets a fel-
months, come and entwined himself
in their hearts, and left only a loving
memory behind.
Funeral arrangements had not been
completed up to late yesterday evening.
Small Baby Passes Away
The flvo months' old baby girl of
Mr. and Mrs. Tine Heckethorn,. died
Friday at Albuquerque and was
brought to Flagstaff Saturday for
burial. Thc little one died of pneu
monia which was .contracted a few
days before. It is thought the change
of water started tho trouble. Both
father and mother of the little one
have tho sympathy -of many frienda
here.
month, has started a "yellow peril"
stunt with his paint brush and has
smeared it all over the heretofore se
date looking fire plugs.
Not satisfied with this, bydirection
of the city council, he has "went and
put" a lot of old iron hats in the
plumb center of tho street at each
corner and painted them yellow, too.
They arc the real yellow peril, for if
you do not go around to the right of
them in turning a corner, a fellow
named Murray immediately wants to
know why and you don't always
know why. Then you go down to the
"city hall and Judgo Layton, ho tells
you why and how much.
When you see one of those yellow
bouys, don't -attempt to kick it out
of the road, go right and be right.
service. His home is at Prescott nf RtnMr mt
The bride is a most attractive The flow of the water in the well
young lady who is 'a recent arrival does not seem to be affected "by the
u v... .u.vwi.ii.iu, l.lillll.
They will live at Parks until Mr.
river, but is evidently water which
comes down from tho mnimtn?Ti Tim
Ward finishes the state road work he river was up a couple of feet recently
is now engaged on,
Marriage Licenses Issued
August 17, Henry Sidney to Julia
Smith, both of Coconino.
August 18, Filimeno Sales to Vez
aycl Casonava, both of Flagstaff.
August 18, Samuel L. Finley to
Mary E. Johnston, both of Flagstaff.
August 27, Benjamin Copp Ward,
of Prescott, to Miss Edna Lorena Ole
son, of Litchfield, Minn.
Wm. Rudd Will Not be a Candidate
Wm. Rudd, who announced his can
didacy last week for the republican
nomination for representative, has de
cided not to make the race, owing to
business affairs which came up later
and which may make it necessary for
him to claim Apache county as his
home in the future.
and it did not raise or lower the wa
ter in the well.
;
Aloormann Baby Dies After, Operation
Robert, the two-year-old son of Mr.
and Mrs. Fred Moormahn, died in San
Francisco last Saturday. He was
taken to San Francisco for a spinal
operation and survived the operation,
but afterwards contracted bronchitis,
which resulted in his death.
Thc remains were brought back to
Flagstaff Monday morning and the
funeral services were held at the
Catholic church Tuesday morning.
They have the sympathy of many
friends in their loss.
Mr. L. H, Anderson, manager of the
Babbitt company dry goods depart
ment at Winslow, was in Flagstaff
yesterday.
counties have improved the road to
thft fnrnfit. Iinnnrlnrtf initlnilmw !. for MeXlMTl IflTinrni-o n AfliAw -w
construction of a steel bridge across P'oyed and sent into the countrv. be-
Jack's canyon, and Gila county has Moving that it is an imposition on the
recently done considerable work on the taxpayers to be compelled to pay out
same road on and below the Mogol- 'arge sums for takng care of such
Ion Rim, so that the completion of thc transient pauper labor, and most of it
Long Valley .section wjll effectively. a,!en-
connect Winslow with the Tonto Ba- Th-e question is one that looks as
sin region. though there should be some recourse
, r relief, and he will ask the co-oper-
GRAND CANYON MINING , aton of Yavapai county in the mat-
CLAIMS CAUSE MORE TROUBLE ter- County Attorney Wilson will
take the matter up with the federal
Niles and B. A. Cameron were ar- authorities. (
rested at thc Grand Canyon last Sat- "t
urday on a bench warrant from1 thc YounE Canadian Traveler '.-
federal court by U. S. Deputy Don Arrives Safely in Flagstaff
Willits. Both were charcrvl with Russel Turner, the voulfifnT " TJ5.
trespass on a mining claim and doing e,er from Canada, finally reached
a livery business. Flagstaff last week after some intcr-
The claim in question is one over national events of which he knew but
which there is a case pending against ,Jttlc. tJl'-y ,
Ralph Cameron, in the federal court. Mussel is but eight years 'bid, and
Cameron is still in possession of the was started out from Irma, Province
claim and the Cameron brothers be- f Alberta, Canada, with a tag show-,
lievc they arc well within their rights inS where he was going to, and a
in using the claim, at least until Purse of $27.00 to carry him through'
there is a decision of the court to Flagstaff. At Vancouver, some in
definitely settling the matter. ternational complications occurred,
Thc trespass case was hmmrt,f necessitating a wait of a wvlr fnV-.
against them by the forest service. them straightened out Just what they'
, . were it was impossible to find out at
John R. Sweeney is in Race this eml of the lme, but supposedly
' For County Assessor "lcccsarv PaPers to show that he
i would be taken care of when he'
John R. Sweeney, of Williams, nn- rcacne1 this country. When it was
nounccs that he is a candidate for the foun(1 tnat n!s fathcr was at Bisbee
office of county assessor on the re- and hc was com5nfr to a good home
publican ticket. He is one of thc few to bc suPPli5i by Mr. Reynolds, he,
candidates'from the, west end of the was tlcc to "mc on ms wav
county out for office this year. When young Russell arrived in'
Mr. SWeeney is one of thc rcspon-' FlaPstaff nc st""l Jiad $13.95 of the
sible, substantial young men of that Inoney ne- started out with, and there
end of the county where he is well was a sta of PaPrs showing just
and favorably known. He has been a what cacn cent of the balance of the.
resident of the county for the past money was sPent for, and with an
ten years, engaged in the cngincring ' k' on cacn onc by c conductor
department of the Santa Fe and is one of the train and Pulman conductor,
of their most capable men. There is rather a sneaking suspicion
His line of work especially fits him Ulat somc of the trainmen sorter
for the office of assesor, and with en- mwlc Jt convenient for the little fcl-
ergetic, hustling ability, would un- Iow to cat more oftcn than his ac-,
doubtcdly make one of the best as- count showed some of them have
sessors the county ever had. He is en known to do such things. He is
a graduate of the State Normal of a bnEht "ttle fellow and small for his
California. age.
Hc admits that hc is Irish and can- The Ioeal Santa Fc m:c took cs-" '
not' help it now, as it is too late to Fccial pains to helP straighten out the
change, but regardless of tho dmur. international entanglement at Van-
back, will promise the people dollar couvcr a3 soon as they were advised
ior cioiiar value in his work, if elect- ""
ed this fall; a fair and snimi-n nccoco.1 ' .
ment of the property of the county NW 0RpHEUM TnEATRE J
regardless of who it belongs to or how WILL 0PEN NEXT THURSDAY'
they came in possession of it
While he is not so well known Wo' lne new Orpheum Theatre opens
in Flagstaff, he has a pood mm next Thursday evening with a big
warm friends and promises that ho combination show that should test the
will know the people before the cam- caPacity of the house the opening
paign is over, and is perfectly wil- sht.
ling to have the people "tell their No exPense has been spared by
troubles to Sweeney." j Manager Barncord to secure a pro-
Thc more you look at him thc more duction on that night that will fully
you like him.
satisfy the most exacting theatre
goer.
j The new equipment for the stage
arrived this week and is the most
Pioneer Resident Dies in East
Mr. Frank- Learning, a nioneer resi
dent of Flagstaff, died on Aumist 8 nt ' complete possible to obtain, including'
his homo in Cape May Court House, an asbestos drop curtain, for the pro- v
New Jersey. He was about 57 years ' tection of the public,
of age at the time of his death. . I Mr. Barncord says the new show
Mr. Learning was' a resident of j house is one of the best and most
Flagstaff about twenty-five years ago complete for its size in the eouth-,
and still owns a considerable city j west, with a capacity that will answer "
property here, including ten acres of r time to come. The scenery and ."
land in what is known, as Switzer J electrical effects are equal to any in,
Park, just northeast of the city,
During their recent trip east, Mrs.
John Clark, and brother George
Campbell, had the pleasure of visit-
um "un ui nis, nome. iney were
much surprised to learn of his death.
friends here who will remember Mr.
learning and regret to learn of his
death.
large cities.
Lewis Benedict came in yesterday
from Anita where he has a homestead
and is running sheep. He says the
big tanks recently built there for his
There are many old-timo friends outfit are holding water fine and were
filled to' the brim by recent rains."
Permanent water in that vicinitv is
j invaluable to stockmen. !
M
