■ TffE1 JTH YEAR. No. 10.
I flOflll’S HOSPITAL
I Var k i'«Min«aceil ou the Hulldlufi
I Iti'-r »«d Will Be Hushed to
Completion.
I Wort has commenced on the Oro-
I T<Ua general hospital under the direc-
I no* of J. W. Jordon. Work has not
I commenced but has progressed sc
br that the frames of the lower story
I [j place for the moulding of the
| walls. When the funds were
■M la sight there was no delay in
Siitlßg work. A great w ant prevailed
n oroville. and those behind the
f Bonmant lost no time in starting the
tork that Is to result in filling that
nit
The new Oroville general hospital
i ,111 occupy a commanding site on the
10 side in the north part of town-,,
ritrtooklng a wide stretch of the most
hsantiful portion of the Okanogan val
i \H h with a glimpse of the Okanogan
I um and Osoyoos lake. For a time
: wk difference of opinion existed as
tt | proper location for the hospital,
t So*, that the selection is made no one
j ils will take the trouble to look over
, h will have reason to And fault. The
! right is on high land, not so high as to
I require any great exertion getting
I then, it is within a few blocks of the
[ riyot, remote enough from residences
i Ait its presence can not be found ob
[ Jritiooable to householders, accessi
[ tie from two streets and out of the way
I 1 the business center and the noise
I ef itnet traffic.
I 's« building will cover a ground
| AM of 36x66 feet. The first story is
h<to of concrete and the second story
elArick. The lower celling nine feet
Ug and the upper story ten feet. On
■ Ai ground floor there will be four
INI aitod bed rooms, a dining room,
ABn, reception room, bath room, the
hNdry, furnace and fuel room. A
■Mo hall, eight feet six inches, runs
Artugb the upper story from east to
■ mat On this floor there will be two
I aaida containing (our beds each, four
[, *ga rooms, an operating room, ster
i Rggnom, doctor’s wash room, and
|gghßmm A wide porch jylll extend
of the building and
IPlm'around the south side. There
pllFla a road way leading up to the
imad floor at the east front and a
Mdway directly to the west entrance
■ the second floor, thus obviating the
•washy of removing patients up a
flight of stairs. The rooms for patients
ail) bo neat and cheerful and comfort
•Ne, modernly furnished and particu
lircare will be taken as to sanitation.
The building will present a very at
tractive appearance when finished, and
will be an important addition to the
tawa. It la to be furnace heated, mod
eta la all its appointments and equlp
wata, and one of the most complete
laititutions of the kind to be found
la any of the smaller towns of the
data. There are ample grounds, and
the building is put up with a view to
eaiargement whenever the demand
aay require.
from experience in the past it is re
•Bwd that a well fitted, modern hos-
Pltxl lit necessity in Oroville. Not that
•Wx I* i sickly place, nor because ac-
MmU are common, but Oroville is in
»measure a railroad center and very
•MJ of access from a large surround
and well populated territory, and
•henever hospitals have been open
we there has always been a large
Wrouge from neighboring places,
“win* the year that the old Peerless
Mtel was used for hospital purposes
me accommodations were taxed to their
me demand for service, notwithstand
m» the character of the building.
7“ lch Wa « always a menace to life
m danger of fire, and its unadapt
**** i° r the purpose. It is safe to
"diet that with a modern brick buiid
*’ “'aasantly arranged, comfortable
well conducted, with service equal
i best to be obtained, many more
come to the Oroville gen-
I hospital to be treated.
The new hospital will be just what
name Implies, a general hospital.
8 useful and necessary adjunct to
ml 'I* 11 * IBB * )een ma( i e possible by
,*1 subscriptions to stock. It Is do
ted by no sect, society or clique. It
10 everybody and all classes,
iiri * r l eßident Physicians have the same
I v * e * 88 local practitioners. A doc
in .m* 1 *** stance ca n bring his patient
18 hospital and be free to treat that
a, w **hout let or hlnderance. It Is
't he hospital for the public. It will
ucte d to give the best possible
' , re t0 the unfortunates who re
re care and attention, and there will
Bo favorites enjoying concessions
Wmaideratlons tha* are not free to
t *wity episcopal church.
, * v - G' H- Severance. Vicar.)
«?ep» o Bcho °l will meet at 10 a. m.
, Bun <lay. Next Sunday services
in in* he,( * on Se P te mber 3, at 11 a.
■ are cordially invited.
OLD SETTLER’S MEETING.
The old settlers annual reunion am
pic nl,c was held In a pretty and cooil
shaded grove on the edge of the oli
and pretty little town of Conconully
county seat for so many years, las
Friday and Saturday. The meeting wai
confined almost wholly to a single da
ns few arrived on Friday. On Saturda;
there was quite a large attendance. O
course old timers were in evidence ii
considerable numbers, not as many a*
we expected to see, however, and asidi
from the ancient citizens the most nu
merons representatives were the new
est settlers In the way of babies ir
arms, together with u very libera
sprinkling of office seekers. We wen
not on the grounds long enough tc
learn the full programme of the pro
ceedings, but the day was spent among
the pioneers exchanging greetings, ami
there were songs, addresses and a has
ket dinner. One interesting feature
was a drill by a company of boy
scouts, the company made up of lads
living in Conconully.
It was a great pleasure to touch
hands again with old timers, some of
whom we had not seen for a number of
years. Among them were such ancient
Inhabitants as M. C. Mallott. Dr. J. i.
Pogue, Chas. Lovejoy, Ted Maloney,
Tom Jones, Phil Pinkston, Tom Pink
erton. Wm. Banos, Geo. J. Hurley, Tom
Burke, W. P. Wheeler, W. A. Bolinger,
W. E. Gamble, W. C. Brown, Lute Mor
ris. Steve Cloud, Chas. Hermans. Mr.
Palmiteer, Mr. Mecham and a number
of others whose names escape us at
this writing.
These annual reunions of old settlers
should be kept up and encouraged,
making them so interesting that every
pioneer of the county would be induc
ed to attend. It should be an event that
alt those entitled to membership
would take pleasure in looking for
ward to as a time for the renewal of
acquaintances which would keep green
friendships formed In the earlier days
of the county’s history. The old pioneer
is passing away, and in a few years he
will be only a memory. It would be
well in this connection if some meas
ure could be taken togather all .the
data possible bearing on Hie eSrTy tied
tlement of the county, for it would be
Interesting for the generations that
will in the future populate the county.
MURDER AND SUICIDE.
Brooding over her ill health which
she firmly believed would take her to
an early grave, and worrying over
what would become of her young son
after her death, Mrs. E. E. Hess of
Johnson Creek, a highly esteemed pio
neer woman of the Okanogan country,
became suddenly deranged Sunday
morning and shot her 11 year old son
Roy in the head with a 30-30 rifie, and
then turned the gun upon herself and
committed suicide.
The tragedy occurred about six
o'clock while Mr. Hess and their older
son were away from the house milking
the cows. When they returned, they
found the dead bodies, the boy with a
part of his head blown off and the
mother with a bullet hole diagonally
through the body, entering at the ab
domen and coming out near one of the
shoulders. Evidently the boy was not
awakened from his sleep, and the
mother died Instantly with the explo
sion of the gun.
The county authorities were notified
and Sheriff Stark and Prosecuting At
torney Johnson went to the scene of
the double tragedy and made an in
vestigation. The case was clearly one
of murder and suicide and the officials
decided at once that an inquest was
unnecessary.—Okanogan Independent
SURPRISE PARTY.
A very pleasant birthday surprise
party was given at the home of Mr. and
Mrs. J. W. Carrel, Wednesday after
noon of last week, in honor of their
son, Elbert, who had just reached his
eighteenth birthday. Many enjoyable
games were played on the lawn, aftei
which ice cream and cake were served
by the hostess. The young man was
the recipient of a number of ornamen
tal and useful presents. Those present
were; Mrs. Waldorf, Mrs. N. C. Faulk
ner, Ruth and Miles Cutler, Bessie and
Vivian Brown, Annie and Jewel Hobbs.
Paul and Hobert Gordon. Vesta Min
nick, Esther Buckmiller, Hazel Me-
Carthy and Klsle Faulkner.
Otto A. Case, of Seattle, who spent
a month In Oroville early In the sum
mer, arrived in town Saturday evening
and expects to remain here some time.
Indeed. Mr. Case gives it out that he Is
so enamored with Oroville and the
valley that he will locate and make
this place his permanent home. If the
lure of the metropolis is not too strong
Mr Case may finally make up Ins
mind to cast his lot with Orovii e, and
those who have met the gentleman
sincerely trust that he may,.asi i_
would make a very valuable addition
to the community.
a nothr Richmond.
G*' B °ftice had a pleasant
ku e , on ' ° Uy B ’ Groff, of spo
the ro?Ki? f the seven conte st ants on
i ieket for n ° mi^t‘on
Fifth h Hi . ff < 0f con Kfeßsman in the
th district, and one of the candi
dates to be reckoned with when the
Ut es are Anally counted on the 12th
day of September, the occasion being
tile primary election. Mr. Groff’s visit
is mentioned as a pleasant one, and It
centainly was a pleasant halt hour for
the office force, spent In Mr. Groff’s
company. He is a gentleman who
makes a decidedly favorable Impres
sion upon those whom he meets. The
stranger is struck at once with his
charming geniality, and a tew minutes
conversation reveals the tact that he
is an energetic and vigorous person
ality, that he is a man of capability
and Intelligence, and that in the halls
of congress he would size up with the
lies! of them and ably represent his
district. Mr. Groff has had legislative
experience, which Ats him for the du
ties of the office to which he now as
pires. He was elected a member of the
house of representatives of this state
Irom Spokane in 1911, and made such
a creditable record that he was return
ed to the legislature as a senator In
1914, thus securing a well merited pro
motion. In both branches of the state
legislature Mr. Groff stood the peer
of any member of those bodies, and he
was recognized everywhere as a leader
among his associates. The Seattle Post-
Intelligencer commenting upon Sena
tor Groff's candidacy for congress said:
”In his legislative work Senator Groff
has displayed unusual ability, skillful
in debate and parliamentary procedure
and lias always been a force to be
reckoned with.”
Mr. Goff is 41 years of age and mar
ried. He was born in Maryland, and
served as a volunteer In the Spanish-
American war. He was engaged in
farming and the flour milling business
before studying law and being admitted
to the bar. He has lived and practiced
law in Spokane tor twelve years and
has a strong support in that city. Mr.
Goff is a republican without a,record
of trimming his sails to every political
breeze. He was a republican when oth
ers chased off after false gods, and are
now asking to be rewarded for their
temporary aberration.
A POPULAR CANDIDATE.
Hon. R. L. Picken, of Tonasket, was
a visitor in town Saturday. His time
was limited and he was able to see
only a few residents of the place, but
he expects to be here again in a few
days. Mr. Picken is a candidate for the
legislature before the primaries on the
republican ticket, and his nomination
Is a certainty even this early in the
game. He has been so busy recently
that he has had no time to devote to
campaigning. However, he is so well
known throughout the county, both as
a former legislator and a member of
tlte board of county commissioners
that It Is really hardly necessary for
him to do much in the way of drum
ming up support. Still he stated that
he would devote considerable time
prior to the primaries traveling over
the county meeting old friends and
making as many new ones as possible
Bob Picken is the right kind of a man
to send to the legislature. He is such
e, man as the people of the county
would never have any reason to feel
ashamed of. He has serve 1 one term
in the legislature, so does not tike up
the duties of the office as a novice. Ho
has a charming personality that wins
friendships and confidences and can
ir.t ke his presence felt In a legislative
body. He is a gentleman of unsullied
reputation, his word can he absolutely
relied on, and he would represent the
•ounty with honor to hlmael* and
i-edit to his constituency. Everybody
who Knows Bob Picken likes him, and
Par great pt pularlty will carry him
, B mitrb the primaries a wnner.
M. K. CHURCH SERVICES.
Sunday school at 10 a. ra. Preaching
service at 11 a. m. Pulpit to be sup
plied. Preaching service at 8 p. m. Sub
ject of sermon, "The Power that Work
eth for Righteousness.”
Everybody welcome; everybody in
vited; everybody come. The homelike
church and the stranger's friend.
W. W. STRITE, Pastor.
Mrs. C. Umscheid died suddenly at
her home in Horse Spring coulee last
Thursday, and was buried in the Loo
mis cemetery Friday. The deceased was
the wife of C. Umscheid, the old time
tailor, who has lived in the county for
a number of years, having conducted
tailoring shops in Chesaw, Loomis and
Oroville at different times, prior to go
ing on a ranch. Mr,s. Umscheid was tak
en suddenly ill. A physician was sum
moned from Tonasket, but before his
arrival the unfortunate woman had
passed away. She leaves a husband and
several children to mourn her loss.
OROVILLE, WASHINGTON, AUGUST 25, 1916.
P. Goodwin of Spokane, one of the
galaxy of republican candidates for
congress from the Fifth district, spent
a few hours in Oroville Saturday on a
tour of the district that be is ambitious
to represent in the lower house of con
gress. It would seem impossible to get
together anywhere in the state seven
candidates better fitted for congres
sional honors than the seven candi
dates running for nomination (or con
gress i this district, and of the lot Mr.
Goodwin is not the least fitted from
the point of natural ability and experi
ence in places where experience counts
in fashioning a man for this particular
office. That he has been equipping
himself for any position that the peo
ple Jnight call upon him to fill Is prov
en ny the line of public activities that
havf made a demand upon his time and
ability during the past twenty years.
He f as clerk of a house committee in
congress, and hence Is not a stranger
to ropes that are to be pulled by a
congressman. He bas'beea editor and
manager of the Baltimore Journal of
Commerce chief of field division U. S.
general land office in northwestern
states, chief deputy prosecuting attor
ney of Spokane county, and special as
sistant to U. S. attorney general. Aside
from these employments Mr. Goodwin
personally is a very amiable and pleas
ant gentleman, the whole being a com
bination that is found most advantage
ous for the usefulness of a member
of congress. With the multiplicity of
candidates in the field for this partcu
lar office, a nomination is an uncertain
gamble, but should the prize fall to
Mr. Goodwin, and he should subse
quently be elected the people of the
dlstrlct would never find cause to com
plain of their choice.
What promises to be an interesting
program of sports is billed to take
place at the Orpheum this Friday
evening, the chief attraction being a
four round glove bout between Kid
Mack, who Is heralded as the fighting
kid from Portland, and a local artist
with the mitts, who goes by the formi
dable name of Wild Cat Hill. If these
names are founded upon the ability of
the principals to put up a scrap then
the four round go should be a whirl
wind. There will be preliminary events
in the way of wrestling match, four
round go between Phil Albrecht and
Kid Mallory and a boxing contest be
tween two boys under 14 years. The
smoker will be full of ginger and the
patrons can expect a very busy even
ing.
Percy Eastman was displaying an
excellent sample of coal, or a sam
ple of excellent coal, Saturday, and he
stated that the sample came from a
coal deposit three feet wide on the
surface that he had discovered within
three miles of Orovllle. He stated that
the vein could be traced a long dis
tance, that it dipped Into the mountain
and that it was in a lime stone forma
tion, had every indication of quantity,
It is his intention to do considerable
work on the find and ascertain as far
ns possible the real extent and quality
of the deposit. A coal cropping does not
necessarily insure a coal mine of large
production and great value, but it is
an encouraging Indication. If further
Investigation demonstrates this de
posit to be extensive and the coal of
good quality, the find is more valuable
than a gold mine. Furthermore, the
opening of a coal mine so near Orovllle
would have a very material influence
upon the prosperity of the town.
Mr. and Mrs. J. Lewis arrived In Oro
ville Saturday and are visiting with
their son. Dr. D. H. Lewis. Mr. Lewis
has been a resident of Spokane since
1889, and hence Is becoming a pioneer
of Eastern Washington.
SMOKER.
QUICK TRANSPORTATION.
The automobile has settled the trans
portation problem in this country
where long distances are the rule be
tween towns, both in the matter of get
ting there and the comfort while mak
ing the run. In olden times It required
a day’s travel to go from one town to
another in this county. People did as
little travelling as possible, and every
time they made a trip they would sol
emnly vow never to do It again. Now a
person can take an auto and almost
circle the county between daylight and
dark. Saturday, through the kindness
of Jas. E. Forde, the writer had an
opportunity to travel over roads be
had not been on for a decade, and ev
ery mile was a source of pleasure.
The last time we were over some of
the roads we traveeld by stage re
quiring a full day to make half the
distance covered in a few hours. We
left Oroville In the morning, stopping
at Riversldee. There, a half hour was
devoted to visiting with friends. From
Riverside, we drove to Conconully, ar
riving at that charming old town be
fore noon. Spending several hours In
Conconully we returned by the way of
Loomis, arriving at Oroville at 6:30,
covering over 100 miles, and enjoying
a delighatful trip. A few years ago a
trip to Conconully was never taken
for pleasure. Only Important business
could induce one to make the drive,
as it consumed a full, long day, and
when the traveler reached his destina
tion be was unrecognizable from the
accumulation of dust, if in the sum
mer time, or frozen stiff if in winter,
with every bone in his body aching
and his interior arrangements Jolted
out of their natural positions. The
modern auto is a wonder for getting
over the ground, and will continue to
be until the flying machine super
cedes that present speedy means of
annihilating space.
PRIMARY ELECTION.
The primary election takes place on
Tuesday, September 12. In order to
vote, you must be on the registration
books. It is the paramount duty of ev
ery elector to take part in the selection
of Candida tee (or office. The primary
law was framed (or the purpose of
taking out of the hands of conventions
the power to select candidates for var
ious offices, it being held that more
competent material could and would
be selected if left to the entire electo
rate. The backers of the law were no
doubt sincere, but experience goes to
prove that on the whole the old con
vention system, rank as its methods
sometimes were, made better select
ions of candidates than have been the
rule under the primary law. It is im
possible for the voters to meet and get
acquainted with all the candidates and
they must take many of them on trust.
Unfortunately the ease in which a man
can secure a place upon the ballot Is
an Incentive for every one wishing to
get before the public to file for office,
and hence the unworthy as well as
the worthy are out for office at every
election. Let the voter this year look
into the record of those especially run
ning (or state and congressional office,
and support only those whom they be
lieve to be worthy of a high and re
sponsible trust
YOUNG AMERICAN CLUB.
A young people's club was organized
last Thursday when 25 young ladles
and gentlemen were the guests of the
Isch-ga-Bibble club at the home of
Mrs. C. W. Smith. The Club is called
the Young Americans. They have chos
en the United States national flag as
their emblem, and will study patriot
ism, national service work and clean
politics. They have at heart the wel
fare of their city and community, and
will have their own club room in con
nection with the Isch-ga-Bibble club,
under whose guidance the younger
club will act. Long live the Young
Americans.
PRESBYTERIAN CHURCH.
Sunday school at 10. Preaching at
11, subject, “Drifting.” We welcome
you. Come and bring your friends.
A. W. BOND, Pastor.
Representatives of the Standard Oil
company have been in Oroville during
the past week trying to make arrange
ments for the purchase or lease of
conveniently located lots along the
railroad right-of-way for the purpose
of putting in large oil tanks and such
buildings as will be necessary for mak
ing Oroville a central distributing
point for a large section of the coun
ty. It is reported that the gentlemen
representing the oil company have
been negotiating Ith Dr. C. P. House
for acreage situated nearly opposite
the coal bunkers. This would be an ex
cellent location, both In Its relation to
trackage and the distance removed
from other buildings. It Is Intimated
that the company will make extensive
Improvements when the site is finally
selected.
91.60 PER YEAR
GOOD ROADS CONVENTION.
Program of the Okanogan County Hot
ter Roads Association.
The Okanogan County Good Roads
association will hold their meeting in
Okanogan, on September 5, at 10
o'clock a. m. sharp. The following is
the piogram;
Disposal of routine business.
Recommendations of the executlva
committee for consideration of com
mittee on resolutions: (X) —The redls
trlctlng of Okanogan county Into ne v
commissioner districts. (2) —Delegates
to Eastern Washington Good Roads as
sociation should be instructed to act
as a unit. (3) —Candidates for the leg
islature should be requested to pledge
themselves to carry out the recommen
dations of the Eastern Washington
Good Roads association.
Contract vs. Force Account in Road
Construction.
Force Account, George J. Hurley,
Loomis; Contract, Fred D. Culver,
Carlton. Open discussion, (Time limit )
Report on present road conditions,
(time limit.) I—County Engineer, H.
E Smith. 2—Commissioner Hugh Mil
ler. 3—Commissioner R. A Nixon 4
Commissioner J. H. Green.
Suggestions on the expenditures of
road money and estimates for budget ;
by trustees and members.
Election of delegates to Eastern
Washington Good Roads association.
It Is recommended by the executive
committee that the trustees from roads
4, 10 and 12 select one delegate from
each of these roads and that the asso
ciation pay the expenses of these dele
gates to the convention; and that one
delegate from each commissioner dis
trict be elected by the association and
that the expenses of such delegate be
paid by the community he represents.
Registration day was fairly well ob
served Saturday In the three Orovllle
precincts, and quite a number of new
names were placed upon the regis
tration books. There were an unusual
number of visitors in town from that
portion of the precincts outside the
town limits. A free lunch was served
at the Civic League park at which
some 60 persons were served with
provender.
H. R. Edgerton has sold his 80 acre
tanch under the ditch, and some eight
miles south of Orovllle, to Francis R.
Travers, of Kansas City, Mo. Mr. Tra
vers bought the property for a son and
son-in-law, and the new owners intend
to improve the same. This land was
sold for a more reasonable price than
any that has changed hands in the val
ley, Mr. Edgerton stating that meeting
the water tax and the cost of Improve
ments was too great a problem for him
to solve. He says that he believes that
large holders will soon arrive at the
conclusion that It Is better to receive a
small compensation for their land than
to attempt to hold it for a long period
in the hopes of getting a larger price.
Orovllle should send a good delega
tion to the good roads meeting that la
called to take place at Okanogan on
Tuesday, September 5. This meeting
will thresh over the questions of appro
priations for state roads in this county,
and if the meeting cannot come to
some amicable understanding and send
a delegation to the state good roads
meeting that la unanimous as regards
to where the money is to be spent, that
delegation might as well stay at home
so far as its Influence for accomplish
ment Is concerned. It has been the cus
tom for the good roads conventions to
only recommended appropriations for
the completion of roads already com
menced. Road No. 10 has been com
menced and should be completed at the
earliest possible date. When that chief
artery of travel through the valley Is
once in condition for travel then efforts
to secure aid tor lateral roads will be
supported by every one.
I Prior to the time Mrs. J. F. Samson
made her trip to Lake Chelan, she had
in her employ a domestic named Ethel
Randall. The girl left for Wenatchee
immediately after the departure of
Mrs. Samson for the lake. Upon the re
turn of Mrs. Samson to her home she
discovered that a ring and much wear
ing apparel belonging to herself and
Mrs. Harry Reed were missing, and all
evidence pointed to Miss Randall as the
guilty party. Last week Mrs. Reed went
to Wenatchee, found Miss Randall and
charged her with the theft. On search
ing the girl's room some of the articles
that had been stolen were found, and
she was wearing underclothing that
belonged to Mrs. Samson. Much of the
more valuable property that had been
taken had been sent to a sister by Miss
Randall. The girl was arrested and
taken to Okanogan. She was brought
to Oroville Wednesday by Prosecuting
Attorney Johnson and Deputy Sheriff
Clair Ward and given a hearing before
Judge E. E. Parson. The Judge bound
the prisoner over to the Juvenile court
she swearing that she was not of age.
Only a small quantity of the property
taken was recovered.
