THE BARRE DAILY
MES
VOL. XX NO. 13S.
BARRE, VERMONT, FRIDAY, AUGUST 2.5. 1910.
riUCK. ONE CENT.
FAIL TO SHAKE
FRENCH GRIP
ON NEW GAINS
Germans Vigorously Counter-Attacked
at Maurepas
Last Night, but According
to the Official Report in
Taris They Were Repulsed
with Heavy Losses
OTHER GERMAN LINES
ARE HEAVILY SHELLED
Germans Attacked Fleury
on the Verdun Front Last
Night, but Were Unsuc
cessful, According to the
v French Statement Issued
To-day
Despatches from Petrograd announce
that the Russians have resumed their ad
vance along -the entire Turkish front,
Their armies in southern Armenia re
cently showed marked recuperative pow
er after severe reverses and are advance
ing rapidly and reoccupying Mush. The
evacuation of Bitlis, 12 miles southeast
of Lake Van, by the Turks, is now re
ported.
Although the Germans made heavy at'
tacks last night in the Maurepas sector
north of the Somme, the French hold on
to the village. The complete occupation,
which was announced last night, has not
been shaken, according to to-day's Paris
statement.
, At least one of the Zeppelins engaged
in the raid over England last night
worked well inland and unofficial de
spatches indicate that the aircraft may
have appeared near London. The official
announcement states that nine persons
were injured fatally but that the reports
of the casualties are as yet incomplete,
Paris, Aug. 25. The French gains on
the Nomrau front in tiie vicinity of
Maurepas yesterday were followed by
heavv German counter-attacks last night,
The official report to-day says that the
Germans were repulsed with heavy los
es. The German assault was delivered
against Hill 1:21.
Heavy shelling of the German lines
in the region of Lassigny and Koye.
On the Verdun front the Germans at
tacked Jleury in the night but were
UllOULt-LSBlUli .
K The capture of Maurepas was told in
'infill, b uiniiai n-mitriiii-iii no luiiirnEw
"North of the Somme, about 5 o'clock
in the afternoon, we attacked German
positions in the Maurepas region. After
carrying in a single dash that part of
the village which the enemy still occu
pied and adjoining trenches, we estab
lished a line 200 meters beyond on a
front of about two kilometers, stretching
from the railroad north of the village to
hill 121 on the southeast. We took pris
oner 200 Germans during this operation
and captured a dozen machine guns.
"South of the Somme the artillery
duel continues in the Estrees and Lihona
sector.
"On the right bank of the Meuse the
enemy launched many hand grenade at
tacks against our new front between
Thiaumont and Fleury. All these at-
tempts broke down under our fire. We
made slight progress beyond the eastern
outskirts of Fleury. The day's combats
brought the day's total of prisoners in
this sector to 300, of which eight were
officers."
RE TOUT CAITURE
OF TIIE BREMEN
BY TIIE BRITISH
An Officer of the British Merchant Marine
Arriving New York, Sayt the Sub
marine Was Caught in a Net
And All But Two of Crew
Were Captured.
New York, Aug. 2.1. Tlic City News
association quotes an "ofticer of the Brit
Mi merchant marine", who arrived to
day on the White Star liner Baltic a
the authority for a statement that the
German submarine Bremen has Wen cap
tilled by the British and that all but
two of the crew of 33 wele made prut
onern. The Ilreinen, Recording to this
account, was captured ill the Strait of
Dover on August 2. The other two
member of the erew lost their live.
The Bremen, it was said, became en
meshed in a net and was Kichted by a
British patrol boat which, alter endeav
oritur for a time to extricate the wreck
trom the net. steamed away tor novcr
with the prisoners.
According to the officer, the British
government maintained silence ii regard
to the capture of the Bremen as anottir-
er trans-Atlantic submarine, the Amer
ica, wan said to be on her way here and
it was hoped to capture her also.
SOLONS
WIND UP
WORK
LINER WILLEIIAD
AT NEW LONDON
Was Delayed in Her Trip From Boston
By Fog Tied Up at New Pier This
Morning for An Indefinite Stay.
New London, Conn., Aug. 2."i. The Ger
man liner Willehad, which had been tied
up at Boston since the outbreak of the
Kuropean war, arrived here this morning,
having been delayed by fog on the trip
from Boston. She tied up at the new
state pier for an indefinite stay. New
storage sheds have been erected on the
pier for the Eastern Forwarding com
pany, the American agents of the Ger
man Merchant Submarine line.
ALL CREW SIGNS
To Make Second Voyage of Deutschland
Across Ocean.
Vermont Legislature Ad
journed at Noon To-day,
After Having Voted $10
a Month to Vermont Sol
diers in Federal Service
and Care for Their De
pendent Relatives
ALSO TO PERMIT
SOLDIERS' VOTING
3Iembers Voted One -Half
Mileage for Themselves in
Addition to Their Regular
Per Diem Appropria
tions of the Session Are
$130,000
RED MEN GATHER
IN MONTPELIER
Nine Tribes in Vermont Jurisdiction Arc
Represented at Annual Convention
Banquet Wai Held Last
Evening.
Three hundred members of the Im
proved Order of Bed Men, -preeiiting
nine different tribe located in Beechc
Falls, Lyndonville, St. Johiinbiiry, Brat
tleboro, East Barre, Barre, Montpelier
and Waterbury, gathered in the city hall
at Moutpelier last evening for the an
nual banquet in connection with the 11th
great sun esion of the ereat council of
BRITISH WIN NEAR THIEPVAL
Made Advance of 300 Yards South of the
Town.
London, Aug. 25. The British official
statement issued last night tells of Brit
ish gains near Thiepval as follows:
"South of Thiepval this afternoon we
made a further advance of 300 yards,
capturing an enemy trench 400 yards in
length. Many prisoners are being taken
in this sector, esterday 62, including
two officers, were passed back. These
are in addition to the 164 already report
ed. To-day a further number was tak
en. "A hostile bombing attack against our
new trenches north of Bazentin le Petit
was easily repulsed last night. There
has been considerable hostile shelling
this evening along our front, mainly in
reply to our bombardment."
The official announcement said to-day
that after hard fighting on the Somme
front the I.ntish line had been advanced
several hundred vards in the region near
Pelville wood.
Berlin, by wireless, Aug. 25. Prepara-
ions for another vovage of the siibma
rme merchantman Jicutschlund to trie
t'uited States are well under way. The
amount of the cargo now ready to be
oaded is larger than expected, the Ovcr-
eas News agency savs. All the mem
bers of the crew have agreed to sign for
the next voyage.
Bremen, Aug. 2o. All Bremen is
decked with (lags as for a great military
ictorv in honor of the subsea trader
Deutschland's return, and the people of
the city are celebrating with a holiday
pirit. Mystery still surrounds the hour
f the Deutschland s arrival, for which
Bremen hung out flags Monday on a
false rumor, and not the slightest bit of
information likely to be ot even the re
motetst advantage to the British admiral
ty is permitted to be sent out about the
reenrd-breakiiia return vovage of the
submarine.
The marble business offices of the
North German Lloyd company, where the
German Ocean Shipping company has its
offices,, was almost a peace time beehive
esterday. President Alfred Lohmann
had gone to the coast to gTeet ' the
Deutschland, but other officials of the
submarine freight line were being over
helmed with congratulations by tele
phone and telegraph from all over the
empire. Handshaking visitors brought
elaborate floral tributes. None was hap
ier and busier than Herr Direktor
Heinicken of the North German Llovd
company, who touna time, however, to
say to a correspondent:
The building ot the merchant subma
rines is a war measure and serves exclu
sively the economics of war. For ocean
trade in peace times merchant subma
rines are of no importance. The return
ovage of th Deutschland fills us all
with the utmost satisfaction and pride.
e have, to be sure, never entertained
the slightest fear that this enterprise
would fail, but bad luck was not exclud
ed, especially as we knew that our en
emies were trying their utmost to catch
the Deutschland. Our satisfaction is,
therefore, all the greater.
Confidence in Koenig. j
"Our confidence in the Deutschalnd's
success was especially based on the con
viction that Capt. Koenig and his crew
were the men to solve the problem. We
knew Koenig was one of our best cap
tains and that we could give him com
mand of the first merchant submarine
with the strongest hopes of success. He
and his men solved their task splendidly,
and the Ocean Shipping company, the
city of Bremen and the whole fatherland
give them the heartiest thanks. Xot for
a moment have we had any doubt but
that the voyage of the Deutschalnd's sis
ter ship will be just as fortunate and
that the submarine freighters, through
the goods brought from the other side,
will contribute to help us conclude this
war victoriously.
"We have shown our enemies that we
are not dead ones and are not to be
downed. This is the greatest ami the
most moral success of our undertakine."
TEUTONS REPULSED
In Their Efforts to Take Offensive Be
fore Kovel.
Petrograd. via London. Aug. 25. Aus-tro-German
force before Kovel in Vol
hynia attempted to take the offensive
yesterday, but the war office report
they were repulsed.
SLIGHT GAIN BY ITALIANS
Despite the Unfavorable Weather Condi
tions, Says Rome.
I"ome, via London. Aug. 25. The new
attack of the Italians in the IVdmites on
INSURANCE TOLIC Y
STAMP TAX OFF
Democrat Leaders in the Senate Yield to
Protests From All Parts of the
Country.
Washington, P. C, Aug. 2". Admin
istration leaders in ('-ingress were to-day
planning adjournment next Fridiy or
Saturday. Senator Simmon, chairman
of the finance committee, said be be
lieved it could be done unless unforeseen
developments arose.
Democrats of the Senate finance com
mittee, to-day yielding to the protests
from all parts of the country, struck
from the emergency revenue bill the
proposed stamp tax on insurance polk-ieo.
the northern part of the front is beins
Binw-reu ty unfavorable eatser. but I which proposed a tax of halt a ent on
Some further progress, is reported in the leach dollar of the premium on all pol
etXtial announcement k-'iay. ictci, including Life insurance.
The Vermont legislature, having per
formed its duty by providing pay for
ermont soldiers in the United States
service, making provision for the care of
their dependents and, incidentally, enact
ing two laws to allow the members of
the National Guard to vote in the Sep
tember primary and November election,
adjournd at noon to-day. The House and
Senate had completed all business by 11
o'clock and simply marked time until
the hour set for adjournment, which had
been decided upon by joint resolution
last night.
An even half-dozen bills were passed
at the special session, as follows: (U
An act to provide for the expenses of the
present session of the general assembly
(provides for $6,000 to cover expenss of
members and employes, with 10-cents
mileage rate, and carries an appropria
tion amounting to $130,000 to cover the
expense entailed by the acts relating to
the troops and their dependents.
(2 1 An act to provide additional pay
for the enlisted men of the National
Guard of Vermont from dune 19, 1016, to
not latr than Jan. IS. 1017).
(3) An act to provide for the support
of dependents of the enlisted men of the
ermont National Guard.
(4) An act to amend the act relating
to primary elections (makes clear that
candidates must file statement of ex
penses within ten days after the elec
tion).
(5) An act to provide for soldiers vot
ing at the general election, Nov. 7, 191 B.
(6) An act to provide for soldiers vot
ing at the primary election, Sept. 12,
1916.
After three sessions vesterdav, the
House and Senate came together at 10
o'clock this morning for what turned out
to be the final session. The House imme
diately passed in concurrence the Senate
acts. to provide for soldiers voting in the
general election and at the primary elec
tion.
After a debate the Hotise also passed
in concurrence with proposals of amend
ment the bill to provide for the expenses
of the present session of the legislature
Mr. Graham of Rockingham moved to
consider the second proposal of amend
ment first, which was to fix the mileage
at 10 cents per mile. The proposal was
favored by Messrs. Proctor, Blodgett,
Stone, Chalmers, Morse, Stacey and Pow
ell, while Mr. Hapgood opposed.
Mr. Miller demanded the yeas and
navs. ihe vote resulted as follows
Yes, 13; no, 41; and the House ton-
cnired in the proposals of amendment
The proposal to reduce the contingent
expense fund from $9,000 to $6,000 pre
vailed also. Those voting against the
proposal of amendment were as follows:
Austin of Reading, Bagley of Searsburg,
Beattie of Maidstone, Bolster of Win-
hall, Brown of Goshen, Carty of West
Haven, Clark of East Montpelier, Day of
Ripton, Dimond of Manchester, Doty of
Worcester, Eaton of Woodstock, Gaines
of Panton, Granger of Tunbridce, Hap
good of Peru, Hay of Bupeort, Hitchcock
of West field, Hoadley of Tinmouth, Hor
ton of Readsboro, Howard of Dummers
ton, I.ennert of Leicester, McWayne of
Dorset, Mattison of Glastenbury, Mears
of Sandgate, Nichols of Bridport, Parker
of Cavendish, Parris of Danby, Pierce
of Rochester, Putnam of Middlesex, Rice
of Shaftsbury, Shores of Granby, Smith
of Starksboro, Slay ton of Belvidere,
Soule of Alburg, Spaulding of Plymouth,
Stocker of Wardsboro, Stone of Wood
ford, Thurber of Halifax, Ward of Sun
derland, Ward of St. Albans Town.
Wood of Well.
That done, Mr. Hamblct if Barton
moved that a committee be appointed to
wait on Gov. Gates and inform him that
the House had on its part completed th
business of the session and was readv to
adjourn. The speaker named Messrs.
Hamblct of Barton and Miller of Bethel,
who turn performed their duty. The
same notification was sent to the Sen
ste and the speaker finally declared the
House adjourned.
The Senate had little to do this morn
ing. It received official notification that
Gov. Gates had signed the bills men
tioned ahove, after which Senator Smith
moved that a committee notify the gov
ernor that the business was done. Sena
tors Smith and Chedel were delegated
for the task. Then the Seriate told the
House that it vti ready to quit, while
about the same time Gov. Gates told the
Senate offii ially that he had no further
eommuniration to make. The Senate did
the same as the House and left the State
House at noon.
Vermont.
Great Junior Sagamore James T, Roe
ers of Binghamton, N. was the cues
of honor and member oT the Red Men's
league in costume, with a life and drum
corps, escorted him from Miller's inn to
the banquet hall. The banquet was fol
lowed by post -prandial exercises with
Mr. Rogers making the principal address
and dancing wm then enjoyed until mid
night
This forenoon the gTcat council and
representatives of the several tribes met
in the K. of P. hall for organization and
the transaction of routine business and
the election of officers takes place this
afternoon. Great Sachem Alexander
Ross of Burre is presiding at the bus-
news sessions. '
Sachem H. I Richardson of Sioux
tribe, Montpelier, introduced as toast
master at the banquet, Great Senior
Sagamore E. I. ISarrctt of the great
council of Vermont, and a welcome was
extended by Charles H. Heaton. Short
talks were made by Prophet H. E,
Hiimphfrey of Lvndonville and F. K.
Marshall of Beeeher Falls, great repre
sentatives,' and Mr. Rogers then dis
cussed the cardinal principles of the or
der, freedom, friendship and chant v.
-Li
LIGHTNINtj CAUSED EXPLOSION.
Resulting Damage Was $75,000 Work
men Rushed for Safety.
Brockton, Mass., Aug. 25. Nine per
sons were injured, four of them serious
ly and nearly score suffered minor in
juries when a holt of lightning struck
the box toe plant of E. I.. Gowdey late
yesterday, causing a vat of denatured
alcohol to eplode and set lire to sur
rounding property.
The loss is estimated at between $75,
000 and $100,000. One hundred and fif
ty workers, including many girls, made
a mad rush for safety and most of them
were accounted for later.
Six men were at work in the vat room
when the lightning struck. A terrific
explosion followed and the ell of the
three story wooden building in which
the Gowdey factory is located, was vir
tually split in half.
Two men, J.j Edward Pike, of Dan-
bury, Conn., who was installing ma
chinery, and Walter Sampson ot hast
- t ... i ii .I .
on, a loreman, were blown through a
window and received severe, burns about
the face and body. They were rushed
to a hospital" where their condition was
reported a critical. Clyde Dunn of Whit
man and a Pole of this city, who is
known only by the name John, were al
so removed to the hospital suffering from
severe burns. They are txpected to re
cover. The, burning alcohol set fire to the
main building, known as the old Tom
White shoe factory, occupied by several
firms engaged in some branch of the bhoe
manufacturing industry, causing consid
erable damage. The Humes spread to
three nearby dwelling houses on Elliott
street, where they were checked before
they rad made much headway.
The Gowdey company, sole occupant
of the ell which was destroyed, was the
heaviest loser. Much valuable machin
ery had recently been installed in its
plant. Other occupants of the building
who suffered less seriously are the Brock
ton Paste and Supply company, White
Star Washington company, Tom Cann
company, Montello Stay company, A. E.
JMb Refinishing cqmpany, Elliott Shoe
company, Keno Supply company and C,
II. Packard.
WILSON CALLS
BOTH SIDES
First He Conferred with the
Brotherhood Representatives
THEN WITH COMMIT
TEE OF EXECUTIVES
Discussed Proposals Which
Have Developed in the
Railroad War
Washington, Aug. 25. President Wil
son summoned the representatives of the
employes ami employers in the threatened
railroad strike to the White House to-day
for conferences to discuss the proposals
which hare developed out of his original
plan of settlement. Representatives of
the brotherhoods saw the president first
and the committee of executives later.
The brotherhood heads remained with
the president an hour and a half. Later
A. B. Garretson, their spokesman, fcaid:
1 he situation is absolutely unchanged
No complete, concrete proposition to
which the railroads will agree has been
tfndered us. Our position is exactly the
same as when we accepted the presi
dint's plan. We have deviated from it
n no way whatever."
President Wilson kept the cabinet
vailing in order to continue the confer
ence with the heads of the railroads.
LABOR MEN THANK WILSON
For His Stand in Behalf of An 8-Hour
Day for Railroad Men.
Glenn Falls, N. Y., Aug. 25. Appre
ciation of President Wilson's attitude
oward the eight hour day for railroad
inploycs was expressed here yesterday
t the closing session of the convention
f the State Federation of Labor, when
the delegates, voted to send him a tele-
ram thanking him for the stand he had
taken.
The following officers were re-elected:
President, James P. Holland of New
ork; vice-presidents, T. M. Guerin,
Trov; Charles Hanstein. Newburgh;
homas J. Curtis, New York; George
King, Buffalo; Emanuel Kovelski, Roch
ester; Joseph Mullaney, Brooklyn;
corge T. McGuire, New York; John
Clark, Buffalo; Joseph J. Dehan, ew
rork; Harry Engle, Schenectady; and
Miss Nellie Kelly, Syracuse; secretary-
reasurcr, Edward A. Bates, I'tica.
The salary of the president was m-
reased to $3,000 and that of the legis-
tive agent to $2.00. A minimum wage
f 25 cents an hour for state employes
was urged.
Licensing of plumbers, fixing a fee of
$250 a year for employment agencies,
makinn it an offense to hire men in an
agency in other states to be brought in
to New York state to take the place of
strikers, repeal of the military law,
amendments to the compensation law and
a campaign against a state constabulary,
also were recommended.
Jamestown was selected for the 1917
convention.
$30,000 MORE IS
GIVEN GODDARD
BY IRA C. CALEF
CHARGED WITH WIFE MURDER
EIGHT HORSES IN RACE
On Closing Day of the Fair at Bar
ton. (
Barton, Aug. 25. Four thousand peo
ple were present at the last day of the
Orleans county fair here yesterday.
North Troy won the ball game from the
Irasburg team, 3 to 0. Physicians award
ed the $10 gold prize for the best devel
oped child under a year old to Stanley,
five-month-old son of Mr. and Mrs. Ho
mer Coburne of Newport Center. The
raee summaries:
2:25 Class, racing Purse. $200
Two Star, bg, by Island Wilkes Jd. I
(McFarland) 1 1 1
Waco, ehs (Berry I 2 2
Lady Walnut Hall, bm (Utton).. 8 3 3
W. & G., bs (Harding I 3 5 5
Lucky Strike, dig (Pickle) 5 4 4
Z. C. B.. bg (Barnard I 4 8
Jennie Bird, bm Ortting) ....... fi 7 7
The Rambler, brs (Slnyton) 7 8 6
Time 2:16'i, 2:17'i, 2:13'.
2:22 Class, Trotting Purse, $200.
Gov. Bond, bs, bv The Bonds
man (Harding) 3 2 1 1 1
The Reaer, brs (Pickle) 2 12 2 2
Almont, rg ( Lyons I 4 4 3 3 3
Island Elm, ehg (Cttn) ... I 3 dr
Time 2:21',, 2:22,j. 2:23'i. 2:22i,
:32Vi.
2:13 Class, racing Puive, $250.
Roxalna, em, bv Rex American
(S. E. Pickle) I 1 1
Honesty, bg (Pickle I
Scribnaucht. hg (Mullen I .....
T. C. S.. hg (F. Pickle i
Onward Wilkis, bs (Slavton) ..
Time 2:15''',, 2: 14' i. 2: l i-
3 2 2
2 3 5
4 5 3
5 4 4
John Manning Pleaded Not Guilty at
Lawrence, Mass.
Lawrence, Mass., Aug. 25. John Man
ning, 52, pleaded not guilty in district
court vesterdav to the charge of murder
ing his wife, Lizzie Ann, aged about .50,
whom he claimed to have found dead m
bed with her jugular vein severed at
their home, 9 Melvin street, Wednesday
At the request of the government the
case was continued 10 days and Manning
was committed to jail without bail.
The police are endeavoring to trace
the whereabouts of Manning between
5:45 and 7 o'clock Wednesday evening.
At the former hour the couple's 14-year
old son, William, claims that he talked
with his mother, who was lying on
bed, and that she responded. According
to Manning she was still on the bed
When he returned home at 7. He laid
down beside her, was attracted by the
moisture of blood and discovered that
she was dead.
He notified Mrs. Jennie Gaskill, an
other tenant in the dwelling, and in turn
the police were called.
J he only weapon that the ponce nave
been able to find is a case knife, which is
believed to have traces of blood upon it
This was in one of the other rooms.
Failure to discover any weapon in the
room in which the woman died is regard
ed by the police as strengthening their
theory that he was murdered.
AUT0IST HIT BY AUTO
SCHOOL OPENING
TO BE DELAYED
TILL SEIT. 18
State Supt. H illegal Sends Notification
To All School Superintendents of
the Decision Action Taken to
Avoid Danger of Infantile
Paralysis Epidemic.
Burlington, Aug. 25. As a precaution
against a possible epidemic of poliomyeli
tis in Vermont, the schools of this state
will not be opened this fall sooner than
September 18. Milo B. Hillegas will send
to-day to all school superintendents in
the state notification of this action tak
en by him on recommendation of the
members of the state board of health
at a special meeting of the board, at
which he was present, at the office in
the laboratory building last ewning. The
members of the board also ruled last
evening that health officers might en
force any regulations they deem neces
sary in excess of those already made
by the loard in regard to quaranting
children who come into Vermont from
outside the state.
All of the members of the board were
present at last evening's special ses
sion and it was recommended to Com
missioner Hillegas that. the schools in
he state be not opened sooner than
September 18, in order to avoid a pos-
ible epidemic. He assured the board
that their wishes would be carried out.
here is not a ease of poliomyelitis in
he state at the present time and this
tep was taken as a precautionary move.
xperience in past years having shown
hat the greater-t number of cases have
ppeared during the month of Septem-
er. While there is not a case ot the
isease in the state it seems almost in
vitable that Vermont will have some
cases with all of the disease in surround-
ng states. The schools will not be
poned until such time as it can be told
hether or not their opening may cause
n epidemic.
Dr. James Sutclifle Hill, health officer
Bellows Falls, and Drs. C. A. Gale
nd F. H. Gebhardt of the Rutland board
f health were also present at last even-
ng's meeting. Dr. Hill inquired of the
members whether or not the quarantine
hich has been ordered on children who
come to this state trom ew loric Lity
might not be enforced upon childrein
coming trom other . communities trom
which they might bring poliomyelitis
into ermont. Permission was granted
them, together with any other health
officers in the state, to make any regu
lations in excess of those already made
bv the board deemed advisable and neces
sary and which local conditions appear
to w arrant. This includes the quarantine
of any children who might come into
the state from Massachusetts or New
York states.
He Stipulates That $20,000
Shall Be Placed in the En
dowment Fund, the In
come to Be U' "for the
Continuance Education
in the Insti'on"
$10,000 IS ZESTED
TUS ID STUDENTS
Latest Contribution from
the Washington Benefac
tor Brings the Permanent
Endowment of the Semi
nary to $160,000 Trus
tees Were Given a Very
Pleasant Surprise
Arthur E. Sterns of Rutland Badly Cut
About the Head.
Rutland, Aug. 25. WTiile standing on
the running board of his car and leaning
over to lift the floor board to determine
the extent of damage done when he
stripjwd the gears, Arthur E. Sterns of
the Charles Sterns company, was struck
by another automobile which was trying
to pass in a road which had recently
been covered with gravel. The other car
was driven by E. A. Noyes of Pittsford.
When Mr. Sterns was brought to this
city a doctor took eight stitches in a
three-inch wound on the scalp and three
stitches in the face.
NATIONAL
CONVENTION IS
COMING TO BARRE
American Cemetery Superintendents' As
sociation, Now Meeting at Norfolk,
Va, Votes Unanimously to Accept
Barre's Invitation.
The following telegram was received
this morning by See. H. A. Fhelps of the
Barre Board of Trade:
"The American Cemetery Superintend
ents' association will meet in Barre in
101 7. Vote unanimous."
The telegram came from Alex Hanton,
superintendent of the Barre cemeteries,
who is attending the 1016 convention of
the organization in Norfolk, Va., this
week and marks the consummation of
several years' efforts to get this organ
ization to meet in Barre. Norfolk was
the successful bidder against Barre last
year, and the latter city gracefully with
drew when it was found that Norfolk
seemed to have the first call. This year
the invitation was renewed through Mr.
Hanton, and the unanimous vote of the
delegates shows how strongly Barre's
claim was made.
I'subIIv the convention of the Amer
ican Cemetery Superintendents' associa
tion calls together a large number of
members, with their wives and children.
It is thought that as manv as 250 mem
bers attend the annual conventions. So
it will be seen that Harre will have a
considerable number of people to enter
tain sometime during the summer of
1C17, probably in August. The Board of
Trade has been putting in some hard
work in order to attract the 1017 conven
tion to Barre and its officers, as well as
Supt. Hanton, are to be congratulated on
the success of the undertaking.
Legislative Notes.
"A pood citizen, a brave soldier and a
faithful legislator" was the characterisa
tion of .1. B. Williams, late of Charlotte,
one of the members who have cie.l sini-e
the regular session of the legislature, in
resolutions of sympathy presented by
Mr. O'Brien of South Burlington.
Mr. Jones of Shrewsbury saw to it
that the chaplains of the llmiv and Sen
ate should re-eive ft a day anl "the
ame allowance for mileage a the mciu-
tm ci th legialature."
BIG DROP IN DEATHS.
From Infantile Paralysis in Greater New
York.
New- York, Aug. 25. The epidemic of
infantile paralysis showed another big
drop. Only. 22 dath and 04 new rases
ere reported in the 24 hours, which is
the lowest number in the month. There
vere 31 deaths yesterday.
Teter I'm glad Ton Ik
school sm. How many boys are in your
lass.
oimg Hopeful IvCt's one. two.
three four
makes 18. Judge.
FUNERAL OF ACCIDENT VICTIM
Was Held To-day, and Burial Was at the
Catholic Cemetery in Barre.
Funeral services for Michael Cough-
lin, a well known re-ident of Granite
ville. who was almost instantly killed
in an accident at the J. K. Pirie quarry
in WiIIiamtown Wednesday, was held
at St. Sylvester's church in (Jranite
ville this morning at 0 o'cioik. Kcv. Fr.
P. M. M.Kenna of St. Monica's church
officiating in the abene of the parish
priest. The bearers were: Joseph;
Hnuirhton. Terence MH.uire. Frank'
McGmre. Timothy Murphy, Philip Clark
and John Finnegan. all members of Rob-!
ert Emmet court. ( ath die ttder of!
Announcement wag made to-day of an
additional gift of $30,000 to Goddard
seminary from Ira C. Calef, the well
known Washington philanthropist, tho
money having been conveyed to Harvey
E. Averill, treasurer of the institution,
through the medium of a letter received
Thursday afternoon. The gift makes a
total of $40,000 donated by Mr. Calef to
the seminary since June 1 and trustee
of the school were reckoning to-day that
the institution has benefited by Mr. Ca
lef'a magnanimity to the extent of $H0,
000 since he became a member of tho
board of trustees in 1874. Accounted in
dollars, Goddard's good fortune rounds
out an even $100,000 which Vermont in
strtutions have received from Mr. Calef
since the beginning of the year, hospitals
in Barre, Montpelier and Burlington hav
ing received SGO.000 from him within a
few months.
The sum of $20,000 of Mr. Calefa lat
est gift to the seminary is to be added to
the permanent fund, the income to be
used yearly aa the trustees may decide.
The balance, $10,000, creates the Calef
State fund, the interest of which is to be
applied yearly to pay tuitions and all
expenses, except board and. washing, of
students residing in the state of Ver
mont. The latter fund is similar to the
Calef Washington fund of $5,000, estab
lished some years ago, the income of
which goes toward the education of stu
dents residing in the town of Washing
ton who may apply at the institution.
With the $30,000 received yesterday from
Mr. Calef, the school now has a perma
nent endowment fund of $160,000. Al
ready the registration for 1016-1017 afc
the institution is the largest in its his
tory and when the doors swing open for
the fall term on the morning of Tuesday,
Sept. 12, Goddard will enter upon a.
bright era. in her mission among the
youth of Vermont.
No inkling of the surprise Mr. Calef 1
had in store for the trustees on the
threshold of another school year was
conveyed to the officers of the school. In
June he made known his desire to see
the balance of the debt incurred in erect
ing the new building on the hill cancelled
and to that end he gave $10,000, with tho
reservation that the balance left after dis
charging the debt be applied to the gen
eral account. Around $7,500 remained
$2,500 was diverted to the general ac
count. Mr. Calef's large-hearted purpose was
couched in the following characteristic
language:
"Washington, Vt., Aug. 24, 1016.
"To the Trustees and Treasurer of
Goddard Seminary, Barre, Vt.:
"Gentlemen:
"I hand to your treasurer to-day my
check and bonds, face value of twenty
thousand dollars, the interest or income
to be used yearly as the trustees may
decide is best for the continuance of edu
cation in the institution; the principal to
remain as a permanent fund.
"I also hand to your treasurer ten
thousand dollars in municipal bonds, said
amount always to be kept invested in
municipal bonds and known as the Calef
State fund. The interest of this to bo
applied yearly to pay tuitions and all
expenses, except board and washing, of
the students residing in the state of Ver
mont who may apply for same and be
recommended to the executive committee
by the principal, if the committee ap
prove of the same. The entire interest
may be so given, yearly, to children who
may apply for it and the etecutive com
mittee, as best able to decide, may give
or reject the applications. It is my in
tention that students unable to pay tui
tion shall be so helped in place of incur
ring a debt, to he paid no tie knows
when. If said interest is not so used
vearlv, it may be used to pav expenset
of the school. 1 leave this in the hand
of the trustees of Goddard Seminary;
hoping it may be a help to many boys
and girls for generations to come.
"Kespectfully yours.
(Signed! "Ira C. Calef.'
DEATH WITHOUT WARNING
Mrs. M. H. Bulleck of Mar3hfield Died
Thursday.
Marshiield. A-ijr. 25. Mrs. Marshall II.
Bullock passed away Thursday morning
foresters, in w men inp urrvasra re- : at ahout i" ocivk. ne iml been in
longed. Fellow -worker of Mr. I ou'h-' ..cr heal'h for several years, but the
lin 1'r m the Tirie rjiiarrv. where opera-j end -sme w ithout warning at the last,
tions have been suspended since the fa-'.Jenth Wing due t. heart failure. Si.
vomr new'tai'ty. attended the funeral in number !me- her husband, one datiiihter. Mrs.
-sn.t matnv con ve ncr er T.nir,,l lo'f .ira (ieore of l:'n III . an. I nn st.
eomnioiite tlme ho des;red to ." i-om-, li.irb's :u'm'W. h rmi.lcs in NVmt
par.v the tvly to Bsrre. wher. inter
ment was made in the lathohc ceme
tery on BeckW serect.
j !!j!i-pshire.
(The funeral sertH-e will he h-l.i from
her late Lome Sunday, Aug. 27. at 2 p. m.
