HEW MEXICO STATE RECORD
S1.50 A YEAR. SANTA FE NEW MEXICO, FRIDAY AUGUST 25, 1916 NUMBER 100
r ""! trtl IO 1 m T rw 1 mimr. - I - -ZZTZZ! . ' ' i
nr.rum,H.AM rLA i ruKM. REPUBLICAN STATE TICKET
The republican party of the state of New Mexico, in
convention assembled, approving and endorsing the records
of its party in this state and in the nar'on, as the friend of the
people, of lalor, of indusrty, and cf capital, and conforming
to the j .( t mi i j ted by the ratio-. vl c : -cnu'oii in Chica
go, sir.! n s the Tiople of New Me . h s its declaration
of principles.
The republicans of New Mexico recognizing that the
cardinal principles now before the people of the United States,
being those of an adequate preparedness of true American
ism against foreign agression and an adequate protection
of domestc industry and labor, point with pride to the record
of their senators upon these two most vital issues.
We congratulate the people of New Mexico upon having
as a member of the committee on military affairs of the Un
ited States senate, the senior senator of New Mexico, the
Honorable Thomas B. Catron, who had a large and most im
portant part in forcing upon the present democratic adminis
tration that measure of preparedness which, while inadequate,
tends to that measure of preparedness to which the republican
party has committted itself, and we commend the Honorable
Thomas R. Catro, as member of the committee on postof fices
and post roads in obtaining for the state of New Mexico ap
propriations for good roads aggregating the sum of one mil
lion three hundred and fifty thousand dollars, and which are
now a part of the assets of the state for that purpose.
We congratulate the people of New Mexico in having
as their junior senator the foremost exponent of American
ism in the United States senate as evidenced by his constant
and untiring efforts to protect American lives and pronerv
in our neighboring country, the Republic of Mexico. And in
endeavoring to protect the people of the Republic of Mexico
from a war upon them such as is the inevitable result of
('induct of the present administration, and in endeavoring t
guarantee to the people of Mexico the same peace and pros.
pcruy as nave come to, tne people ot tne Kcpuiihc 01 tuii.i 'in
der the intervention of the United States bv reason of the i-'i-cies
of Presidents MeKinley am' Roosevelt and the dmiuisn
tion thereof by General Leonard Wood.
We point with pride to the entire efforts of both our
senators in formulating and the pressing of those advance!
principles in relation to the public land laws and to the recla
mation service of the United States which are embodied in
wat is known as the "Fall Bill" and we plcdcge the support
of the republican party to those principles therein enunciated.
We congratulate the people of New Mexico on bavin as
a representative in congress of the United States the Honor
able B. C. Herndamlez, who by his untiring energy, gentle
manly demeanor, and careful attention to the business of
his office has reflected upon himself and the state of his na
tivity the utmost credit, and who. in consequence of his great
ability, was selected by the republicans of the United States
to onen the republican campaign upon the Atlantic seaboard.
Believing that the first duty of a state or of a nation is
the protection of its sovereignty, we recommend to the legis
lature that it anoronriate the necessarv funds for definitely
determining the boundary as between the state of New Mexico
and the state of Texas.
The republican party, in national convention, reaffirm
ing its faith in a government of the people, for the people
and by the people, has declared in favor of the extension of
the elective franchise to women, recognizing the right of each
state to settle this question for itself. The republican partv
in New Mexico, accepting this suggestion, declares in favor of
the submission to the vote of its electorate, the question of a
constitutional amendment, granting such franchise to all h.-r
adult people, without regard to 9ex.
We endorse in the highest degree and with the greater
enthusiasm the nominationof Charles E. Hughes for presi
dent of the United States and Charles W. Fairbanks for vice
president of the United States made by the national conven
tion of the republican party held in Chicago- We believe
they should be elected for the good of the country, for the
prosperity of the people, for the restoration of order in Mex
ico and for the resumption of business relations with that peo
ple, for the maintenance of better relations with European
nations for the better protection of the rights, life and prop
erty of individuals, which we do not believe the democratic
party through its present administration has done or they will
ever do by any other administration which might accidentally
be placed in power by it.
We endorse the legislation of the second legislature of the
state on the subject of taxation. By chapter 54, Laws of
1915, important progress was made towards more equal as
sessments ; by chapter 55 the equitable principle of a tax upon
mine out put was adopted which substantially increased the
revenues from that source, by chapter 79 school taxes were
equa'ized and the opportunities of a free education.. a seven
months schools term and adequate school equipment were
brought within reach of the children of the poorest school dis
tricts of the state facilities heretofore denied.
We pledge the republican party to keep upon the statute
hooks of the state the laws enacted since statehood and now in
force increasing the facilities of education in the state and
equalizing the burdens of taxation by requiring every dollar's
value of property in each county to share equally the pay
ment of taxes for that purpose.
In particular we endorse the limitations placed upon tax
ations by chapters 54 and 74, Laws of 1915. It has been
too frequently the experience of other states that higher and
more equitable assessments have only produced higher general
levels of taxation that rates have not leen lowered as valua
tions advanced. By tHst means all the efforts to better taxa
tion conditions have only resulted in heavier burdens. Chap
ter 54 lowered the maximum tax rates while providing for
higher assessments, chapter 74 placed a limit upon the increase
of taxes as well. This places New Mexico in the front rank
of the states in tax legislation and makes it the only state in
the union possessing model tax limit laws as recommended
by the National Tax association.
The limitations on taxe9 must be supplemented by limi
tations, upon public debts. Debts may be limited by a per
centage upon the assessed valuation or better by limitation
upon the amount of increase which may lawfully be contract
ed. In all cases there should be an explicit prohibition of
bond issues designed to evade the limitations imposed upon
tax levies.
We pledge ourselves to the enactment of legislation which
(Continued On Page 5)
IS NOW BEFORE ELECTORATE.
Big Attendance at the Convention; Excitement Rife at
Times; The Lines Closely Drawn.
GOVERNOR BURSUM; SENATOR HUBBELL
Strong Ticket Nominated : Two Big Surprises in Page and Mirabel; Suddenly
Sprung; Win Out; Lindsey, Sargent, Wagner, Ervien Go Under Wire.
H. O. BURSUM'S SPEECH
THE TICKET
The decorations in the convention!
hall when the members assembled
Ion Wednesday afternoon were tvni-jFor United States Senator
I cat of the sentiment of the party 1 FRANK A HUBBELL
and 1 lie declarations of the (Treat j of Bernalillo
j leader Charles Evans Hughes. j p0r Representative to Congress
I They stood for Americanism, re-j B. C. HERNANDEZ
j presented by the American flag and of Rio Arriba.
j the speeches which followed during For Governor
'the whole proceedings but carried j HOLM O. BURSUM,
out the idea of protection to Ameri- c Socorro.
!can industries and the r i t; ti 1 , m r t :... 7-
I t'l JIlll, VJllKtl Mill
! American citizens.
W E. LINDSEY
of Roosevelt
j'rt -- of Supreme Court,
CLARENCE J ROBERTS
of Col fax.
For Secretary of State
GILBERTO MIRABEL
of Valencia
For State Auditor
W. G. SARGENT
of Rio Arriba.
For Treasurer
GREGORY PAGE
of McKiuley
For Supt. Public Instruction
J. H. WAGNER
of Dona Ana
For Attorney General
FRANK W. CLANCY
of Santa Fe.
For Corn. Public Lands
j R. P. ERVIEN
I Of Union
' For Corporation Commissioner
j MALAQUIAS MARTINEZ
; of Taos.
For Presidential Electors:
JUAN ORTIZ, of Santa Fe,
T.. C. HILL, of Dona Ana,
C. H. HAMMOND, of Curry.
a report and there being no con
tests the preliminary roll was adopt-'
ed.
The committee on permanent or
gamzation recommended that Con-
pressman Hernandez be made the !
permanent chairman' with Jose D. j
Sena as secretary and as vice pies-'
idents, Gregory Page, Euginio Ro- I
mero. Miguel Martinez, W. A. Have
nor, Bernardo Scdillo.
The report of the committee was
adopted and the vice presidents were;
called to the platform. !
I Chairman Hernandez then nddres-l
j sed the convention, first in English'
j and then in Spanish; He expressed
cordial thanks for the honor and was1
thankful that he had brcn many!
I tunes honored by the Kepuidican
I party. The gratitude he frit could
t never he repaid. We have a great
, campaign ahead which was no w.rk
over but there was no doubt that
I the people of the nation would re
, turn the Republican party to pow
er. The nation expected us to elect
i Republicans all throuuh anil we were
not. going- to be recreant to the
trust. We must be sure of the srn
iator and the congressman as thry
(Were the ones to uphold the hands
I of the president. The issues were
before the people who are beginning
I more to recognize the evident fact
itli.it the Republican party is the only
one able and competent to manage
our national affairs. Instead of les
sening the number of officials as they
promised, the Democrats have in
creased them; they have failed to
I measure up as Senator Fall had
'.shown: in the coming campaign t!.c
George Curry, D. J. I. eahy. Jose Ortiz records nf the Democrats wl ,e
y Pino, I.. Welsh, G. E. Sanchez, IS., shown up since 1912, and this rec I
G Randall. P. Jaramillo, H. J. IIam-;wi,i Prove the incompetency of Wi!-
Silvestre Mirabal j son and his cabinet officers. We will
lev. the taistf cl. mils ! (ue oppo.-o-
Crcdentiali tioi,. The cry that Wilson has kept
Felix Baca, E. I.. I.ove, S. J. Chaves, us out of war will not be sustained
C. H. Hannum Vincente Gutierrez ,i he has disgraced ns by 'its aci-.
C. F. Richards, W. D. Murray. Auto-, Hating and incompetent policies,
nio Alarcon, C. Y. Melton, R. H. Theie was no need of the present
Hamilton, R. Mirabal, Tito Melen- border patrol if the proper policy,
dez, Thomas W. Jones. J. G. Ellis, had been in operation, The iaiff
E. M. Roybal, W. E. Lindsey, A. policy would be one of the issues;
Eichwald, W. H. P.ucher, A. Galle- of the campaign as it has been for
Cos, R. Alarid, A. I.. Davis, J. S. years The Democratic policies haw j
Mactavish, A. Santistevan. Max 7.3- been monumental failures; have not
There was a tremendous crow I
" "" For -rt
of the convention as the interest felt
in the result was state wide Ralph '.
C. Fly, chairman of the state central
committee called the convention to
order. He took part in the .p.-nitm
he preliminary niattersr l.v i it t r .
luring Senator V'a'l as the tempora
ry chairman, merely by the mention
of his name and then making his
way out of the hall by the n' -r
, aisle.
Senator Fall stepped to the center
of the platform amid the enthusias
tic cheers of the big asemM;ge
and entered upon bis speech in that
manner for which he is well
known. He hit the present state and
national administration right and left
and ilid it without the aid of gloves,
striking straight out from the -boul
der ami hitting the solar plexus.
Senator Fall criticized the adminis
tration of Governor McDonald in the
state of New Mexico. He appealed
for a return to republican govern
ment and efficiency. The spr.ike,
.said that New Mexico's industries
require republican principles in oper
ation in Washington . He said this
state should be in harmony with the
administration which is to be esta
blished in the national capital as the
result of the coming election, .1 -d '"nl"
urged hard and systematic work by
all republicans to procure a republi-1
can victory in New Mexico in No
vember Senator Fall accused the pre-,
sent state administration of having
failed to make good its campaign
promises to the people. He predict-1
I ed the election of he entire republi-1
l can slate ticket, as, he stated, he felt i
that the people of New Mexico are j
tired of democratic experimentation j
in ntcl. In frpt Kfirlr f o rAmibli-i
! ,. . ... i, , n imora, J. A. Pacheco, lesus C. San-1 sufficient revenues for the conduct!
.can administration that will follow ' '
'... fi .t j ii chez. of our national afairs. Mr. Hernan-i
jbc efficient.
I dez declared that he was for the
Permanent Organization Ir.rmnnu ont tl. uirriii nf ), P.
J He declared that the issue of this Geor(fe R Craiff L Q Fllen H. ! publican party and would sacrifice'
; campaign was American.. and said n Frankenbura . ,. Havener, Vin- himsef if it were necessary; it is
1 Z 1 :nt P. May , C. F. Richards, Matt the party that he loves, and we must,
Republican party , avoiding per- Fow,er, s Martinez, Francisco Go- n.,ve harmony to win. The present
tonalities would not be indulged in m p w CW. R C. Carrot. Pa.' : s. f . ... ...:
th compa.gn as the Democrats had tricio Sanchez j M Fa A D. 1 part of the Republicans, and Charlc !
set the example and .t would be fol- GolllenncrBr ,Fdward SarRent, T. j. E he, ,ure of e,ect;on !
I lowed by the Republicans and the Mojari, Emiliano I.ucero, W. H. ; Thr rnmm;,. nn rcot;n. '
lii i , . ti. 1 ne committee on resolutions was,
, challenge would be met. The can- plicicr, Miguel Ortiz A R Rene- . j . , .., , ..
j;,,,,, ,i ,,.,:, ,.i . i . n"Lllcr' "'fuei vjruz, . n. kliu not ready to report and Nestor Mon-1
.didates on democratic ticket caii be u R vfirtinez W T Faion and ... . .
Ll,n ffi,:ti ,,i n Martinez, W. J. f.aton, and t moved that ,he cornmittce he,
shown up officially and personally Snire Hart Tr lose Davis F L Gal- j .i. . 1
, . ti, ,jj., t ,,.i ' J J "ll. '- - " given more time and that a reress .
C Jl,,Z IL ant v CramPtn' " J Hafner Mark B' W"".-ttee would he ready to
! The uH lit of the dLa.e- at ' Thom""' Matt Fow'"' A' i make a report very soon. Then the!
The full list of the delegate, at- A H F Hannilm B F Hamil- .nnH n,j pr,n,t i
tending the convention .peart- at the Pa. , n Mf.(lin,. n, ; band 77" Y 'hf ""'
- ---- ' j ire enteren tne nan ana senator
iiveriver m. eee, k. .a. rrentice. ven-; r.(:M .nmn,;., . ,j'
;last of this article.
t THa mft finer n( (ali riilrnl -l T :t I III IT : J TI- . .
; " . . , . "ll""u J"""""1"' - ' "'-). and that State Senator Crampton the
committee held prior to the opening olas de la O. H. A. Wolford. C. of the Committee would
j0f the convention clearly indicated Spiess, T. B. Catron, F. A. nr-iread fhe resolut!ons. A full tt of
;that Bursum had the committee with dick. Antonio Torres. A. A. Rivera. the same which were unan!mousIy
jh.m and when he moved the selec- J. M. Bush, W. J. Wood, P. Jam- adptedj w, be found in anther
'tion of Senator Fall as the tern- ammillo. 'column
i'T:"! 7' " "'J1 Thc "ve"i" reassembled afte, I AIex' Read, of Rio Arriha tlien
i1" " "f- rrcess at 8:40. On the entrance to
;the position and that opposition was t)e ha of BursuttI alld Hernandez
useless. Jose D. Sena was chosen were ,oudIy applal!r1ed and the con.
temporary secretary and as interpre- vention seUM down fo husines.
I. , , ' ' , T , : Governor C""y de the Allows; Yea, 134. Navs 131
...a.ou. ..u., of h committee on ru!es and order ; jnrllm.. .u,n tai,,n
'Bias Sanchez were chosen. Gover- . Klin, TrrnmmKnA;ncr .i. th, ' "rnment was t7en taken
Lr Pri. nri .1,,. , f bus,neRS recomme n d i n g that the 0n reas5embi;ng on Thursday
nor Prince moved that a statement i. t u. r 1
u ;a.u.a.. r .1,- ,..s n,,eS f ,he h0 ,se f "Presentatives morninlT, it was decmed hpst , have
... ...v,v.vU..vJS, v.. w. v.-..,,,-.. . n)es of pre,ent mee,
1914 be furnished by the committee ' and makinff the order of business
and Lliairtnan tly sain such indebt
lednes would be furnished.
moved an adjournment to Thursday
morning at nine o'clock. There was j
an immediate uproar and a roll call i
was demanded, which resulted as fo!-'
An ad-'
be the rules of the present meeting; two ,,,,, appo;nted and Tere Hag-1
and making the order of business re- i eard and c w r Ward were !
.port of the credentials committee' !cn05en I
the committee on permanent orpani-
Before adjournment on Wednes- zation ; the committee on resolutions, '
j day afternoon Fidel Ortiz, of Las (which was as follows: U. S. senator;
Vegas was chosen sergeant at arms Governor: Justice of the Supreme:
of the convention and the following Court : Congressman, Lieut. Gov.;
committees were appointed. Sec. of State; Auditor; Treasurer;
Rule end Order of Buine j Supt. of Public Instruction ; Attorney
Nestor Montoya, A. D. Crile, J. F. General; Com. of Pub. Lands; Cor-
Smith, C. H. Mannum, A E. Rein
berg, M. S. Groves, W. G. Murray,
Pedro Romero, Henry Lutz, R. H.
Case, S. E. Aldrich. A. Lucero, J.
A. BaircL A. D. Goldenberg, Alex
Read, T. J. Molinari, M. Montoya,
poration Commissioner: Presidential
Electors; State Central Committee
Members. Judpe Leatiy, of I -as Vegas
moved the adoption of the report
and the motion wat carried.
The committee on credentials made
The first order of husines was
the nomination of candidates for the!
Ltnited States senate and R. P. Bar-j
nes said he would address the men j
of the convention and after Hnghe'j
election the fashion would be to ad
dress the ladies as well. He was ;
not a word painter, using brilliant
colors with which to decorate the
picture he was to draw, but just a
plain .citizen presenting the name of
a plain citizen with both pride and
(Continued on Page Five)
Gentlemen of the Convention
I am not unmindful of the high compliment you have paid
me and the expression of confidence which you repose ly
selecting me as your candidate for Governor. I accept this
trust, and shall expend every enercry to the utmost of my abil
ity towards assisting in carrying the republican banner to vic
tory. With a united party, aggressive and constant devo
tion in behalf of our cause, we have every reason to feel con
fident that on the 7th day of Novembernext, at the close of
the polls the republican ticket from top to bottom, as nomina
te! in this convention will lc triumphant.
This is a republican year. The voters nf thc United States
look- to the republican party for a contsructive policy, for such
action as will promote the progress and prosperity for the
whole people. This is but natural. After nearly four years
of democratic administration, the democrats have been found
wauling in statesmanship, in stability and in vision, and Am
erican citizens throughout this land feel humiliated at the
results caused by the vacillating, unstable, changeable, peace-at-any-price
policy of Wood row Wilson. Never in the his
tory of the world has there been so little respect in foreign
lands for the rights of American citizens. The present chief
executive of the Nation has been on all sides nf all questions,
and while thc people might be informed ns to his policy of to
day, they would lip perfectly safe to assume that his policy
by tow.orrmv would he r.ww. Vacillation and uncertainty
in thc policies of government are calculated to create distrust
and distrust means industrial depression. No nation can
prosper without absolute confidence in the stability of the
administration of tlie government. fere in this stale we
have had nearly five years of democratic rule. The people
arc tired ami restless of the do-nothing policy nf Governor
Mi'DonnM. nunncr these five wars tint one sentence nf
constructive legislation lias been proposed bv vonr chief ex
ccntive. Under the const ii nt ion of this state the leyislaturc
'Mid the executive riro constituted is the 1 w n-tkiti Idv of the
s.-i!o. the a'-ccptcd theory being that there should be co-operation
and o n-ii!tati"n between the executive and the legis
lature. Yet. during these five years, not one ounce of the
spirit nf co-fiperalion has ,eeu exhibited bv the chief executive
of this state. The policy of tlovernor McDonald has leen
to shirk and shrink every rei nisibilit v. lie has been content
to draw his salary and sit back on his dignitv, finding fault
with that which others have ne and toexercise his pep'ga
,;ve of the veto.
My friends. nnprnTcs(-iti he made, im new develop
ments can he expected, either in government or industry, ex
cept by and through a constructive policy. It is onlv through
tin's s, ,rt of a policy that mistakes are ascertained. Mistakes
we have made in thc prist ami mistakes we will have in the
future, and these mistakes can only be rectified thrnugh ex
perience. 'The democratic administration has been scandalously
negligent in the supervision of our state banking institution
and in some cases thev have not onlv failed to sec that the
''v was observed but have actually aided in an nletmpt to hol
ster up unworthy institutions at fhe expense of depositors, bi
T.as Cnves the citizens' of Dona Ana Count v were told bv
democratic officials that the First State Bank was solvent.
They were told this in the face of the fact tint the governor's
traveling auditor's force well knew that the bank was Iiojk'
lessly insolvent and the treasurer of the tgrieultural College
was pouring in state viontys with one hamf. aui drawing ov
erdrafts with the other. Up to the present time there is still
$7o.oon. property of the Agricultural College, which, as yet.
Iris not been recovered and we await with patience, and, I
hope, with a pardonable degree nf interest , for some defense
of these methods pursued by the democratic administration
nf this state. The time for political hacks lias long tassed
and even though such hanks may be substantial contributors
to the campaign funds of a political party, no party can com
mand the confidence of its people who will pay political debts
with the people's money.
Under the republican administration for the past twenty
years the administration of the cattle and sheep sanitary boards
were absolutely non-partisan. Thev were regarded as deal
ing with industries vital to the prosperity of the ?tate, and
officials nn thnse boards were selected on'v with reference
to their fitness, capacity and knowledge of the industries af
fected For years, under republican administration. William
C. McDonald was at the head of the cattle satvtarv board of
this state. ITe was placed there because lie was considered
to be a practical man, well versed in the business of cattle
raising. The leading sheep raisers of the stair- were selected
as members nf the sheep sanitary board, to .dmitvier the af
fairs relating to the sheep industry, and the Honorable Snlo
man T.unn. who was the leading sheep raiser of W.v Mevi-o.
on account of his peculiar fitness and knowledge of that in
dustry, was the chairman nf the sheep sanitary board. Un
der the democratic alministration, Governor McDonald has
seen fit to retain for all practical purposes for the supet vis
or authority of the sheep industry of this state, a man wholly
untrained, in thc shcepinduMrv. There can be tw de tense 'or
this action except the payment of a political debt at the ex
pense nf the sheep raisers of New Mexico, and one of the
first acts that Governor McDonald did. after a-snuung the
office of Governor, was to request the resignation of the Hon
orable Solomon T.una as the head of that sheen sainitary
hoard. As to the cittle sanitary board, we have no criticisms
to make. .We may assume, however, that Governor McDon
ald is a practical cattle raiser and that in maintaining the high
standard of efficiency with reference to the cattle sanitary
board, he did not forget his own personal welfare.
We are advised that Governor McDonald is a great
friend, nf Mr. McDonald. That in the selection of public
lands which come to his office for his signature and approv
al, that Mr. McDonald always commands immediate and
prompt action, while others who are not so fortunate are com
K.lled to suffer indefinite tklays in obtaining action with
rcfernce to such selections, even though approved hy the
state land commissioner.
Five years ago. Governor McDonald shouted from the
house tops the doctrine. "Ix-t the enple Rule- Rut since
his induction into the of Hce he evidently forgot that slogan anrf
became converted to the doctrine of a government by the
few. During his administration it has been Burkhart. Barth
and McCanna who have been the angels ftermitted to sit be
side the throne. Isaac Barth has furnished the ftatcsmaa-
j, (Continued on Page 5) t
