PAGES 1 TO 8
'OWOSSO THE CITY OF PUSH"
VOL. XXXVIII
OWOSSO. MICHIGAN. AUGUST 25, 1916.
NO. 22
Labor Day at McCurdy Park.
The City of Corunna will hold a
Labor Day celebration at McCurdy
park, the program to include base ball,
sports and gaines, music and dancing.
It will be a county basket picnic affair.
Hear Chanoery Cases First.
Judge Miner has reversed the order
of trial of cases in the circuit court for
the September term and the jury will
not report for duty until Sept. 18.
Chancery cases will be heard first and
the criminal and jury cases later.
Prohibition Committee Rooms.
E. O. Dewey, as county campaign
manager for the state wide prohibition
forces of the county, has opened head
quarters in the Citizens Savings Bank
building, suite 209, and is actively at
work upon the details of the campaign.
His telephone number Is Union 318.
Saved Son From Accident.
Wilford Wellman showed nerve and
extreme presence of mind Wednesday
when in crossing Main street he real
ized an approaching automobile would
strike him and his four year old son if
he did not act quickly. He grabbed the
boy and jumped In the air toward tne
machine landing on the hood, saving
both from serious injury.
For County Clerk.
r Albert L. Nichols, the present popular
and efficient county clerk, is a candi
date for renomination on the republican
ticket and is everywhere given assur
ance of the satisfactory nature of his
work and of the friendly feeling which
prevails toward him. Long service
adds much to the value to the public in
an office of this kind and the informa
tion asked has been most willingly and
freely given by Mr. Nichols in every
matter and no mistake can be made in
renominating him.
Jockeys Make Trouble.
Mike Berimngham, a colored jockey,
got drunk Wednesday at the fair
grounds and after a row with J. C.
Wood of Lowell, owner of Maxton, a
running horse, after being struck with
a riding whip, picked up a stone and
struck Wood on the head, fortunately
. not fracturing the skull but inflicting a
painful and dangerous wound. Wood
was taken to the Sway zee h spital, and
was out Thursday. The colored fellow
was taken to jil pending the result
of Wood's injuries.
i i
City Will Not Pay.
The State of Michigan has asked the
City of Owosso to pay the attorney
fees of $37 50 In the case of Sadie
VVoodard against the city over the
assessment for paying against the
Greenman home on Washington street
which was not paid because of the
failure of the city authorities to secure
the signatures of enough property
owners to legally order the paving of
Oliver and Washington streets. The
state defended the action and lost, the
court deciding the paving tax was
illegal.
For Register of Deeds.
E. R. Vincent of Middlebury town
ship, for twelve years one of the
prominent supervisors of the county, is
asking the republican voters of the
county to consider his claim for a re
ward for faithful public services, by
nominating him for register of deeds
and is receiving encouragement
wherever he goes. He is a capable and
conscientious official, agreeable and
obliging and would give his every
effort to make his work satisfactory if
selected. He is a good farmer, a good
citizen, right on all public questions
and no mistake would be made in
giving him the honor asked for.
E. D. BROOKS FOR REGISTER OF
DEEDS.
Does the Office of Register of Deeds
Require Efficiency or Po
litical Service?
To the .Primary Electors:
I have a business college education
and several years experience in clerical
work. . For eome 25 years past I have
been a resident and farmer of Owosso
township and have not heretofore been
a candidate for office either local or
county. Your support at the Primary
Aug. 29th will be appreciated.
E. D. BROOKS,
Owosso Township.
Hon. J. W. Fordney, Hon. John
Balrd, M. N. Brady and Chester Ford
ney of Saginaw, were present at the
county fair part of Thursday afternoon,
having driven over from Brant, where
they attended a Maccabee picnic.
Cong. Fordney was called home the
first of the week by an injury to Mrs.
Fnrdney but his stay will be short as
his duties in Washington require his
presence on Monday.
VOTE NEXT TUESDAY
Every Citizen .Should Exercise His
Franchise Tickets for
All Parlies.
Every voter in Shiawassee county
should go to the polls next 'Tuesday
and vote his party ticket Republican,
Democrat, Prohlbttionist, Socialist or
Progressive. Of course, so far as Shia
wassee county is concerned, there are
no contests except for republican nomi
nations and every republican should be
interested in naming the best men for
his party No man should attempt to
vote any ticket except that of the party
with which he affiliates. There is no
such thing as an independent in Tues
day's election. Each party should select
its own nominees and then if a voter
desires to vote for men on other than
bis own party ticket he can do so at
the November election.
The contests for republican nomina
tions are few, being for Governor,
Lieut.-Governor, Congressman, county
Hon. J. W. Fordney, .
Whom Eighth District voters will re
nominate next Tuesday and re-elect
in November to become head of the
Ways and Means Committee to write
the new tariff bill which will mean
permanent prosperity to all in this
country.
clerk and register of deeds. There are
several good candidates for governor
with but three men really in the contest
Diekema, Sleeper and Leland while
for Lieutenant Governor there is little
doubt as to the re nomination of Luren
D. Dickinson. For Congressman, Mr.
Fordney will receive almost the Bolid
vote of his party in every county in the
district.
The contests for county clerk and
register ot deeds will be well settled as
the candidates are all well known to
most of the voters of the county and
no harm could be done by the selection
of any of them.
There is little to arouse the enthusi
asm of the ordinary voter as all parties
have good, clean men named or whose
names can be written on the ballot.
Most every one Is, however, Interested
that no unworthy candidate be selected
for the important offices and this is
particularly true of Governor and
Congressman. No unfitted or one idea
man should receive even a small
fraction of the yote.
Select the man whom you feel would
be the best man for Michigan at all
times and all places for Governor, and
for Congressman one who is known and
respected as a leader in Congress and
who is looked to to put Michigan
farther to the front nationally than she
has been for many years.
Former Dry Worker Arrested for
Local Option Violation.
Emraett C. Bolt, for several years
Qlerk of Shiawassee township, and a
former prominent dry worker in this
county, was given a hearing in Justice
Nichols court, Monday, on a charge of
violating the Pray law by storing liquor
in his public garage. He demanded an
examination and it was set for August
28. He furnished bail in the sum of
G00.
The complaint against Bolt was made
by Alva Johnson, village marshal of
Bancroft, and a former employe at the
garage.
It is alleged by Johnson that Bolt has
for some months been making trips to
wet territory three or four times a week.
The sheriff's department claims that for
the past six months there has been a
great deal of liquor sold or given away
in Bancroft and that considerable
trouble has resulted there.
Bolt is well known throughout the
township and is generally liked and
respected.
i
L. L. Conn attended the annual
meeting of the Michigan Independent
Telephone and Traffic Association held
in Grand Rapids, Tuesday. The Assoc!
ation declared a dividend of six percent
on the year's business. W.J. Melchers
was re elected yice president and Mr.
Conn director.
SHOOTING RESULT
OF DICE GAME
Stableman at the Races Fires at
Colored Man and Hits -Bystander.
As a result of an attempt of a colored
man to use loaled dice in a crap. game
at the fair grounds. Tuesday, a fight re
sulted in which several took part and a
stableman secured a gun, and shot at the
negro three times, missing him, but one
shot struck Igratius Erdosky of Bay
City, a midway showman, in the neck,
the bullet which lodged in the tonsils
being coughed up later. Erdosky was
taken to a hospital but has recovered
sufficiently to be ont of danger.
The shooter disappeared and has not
been arrested. !
BEGINS WORK
TO COST $40,000
Union Telephone Co. Will Spend Blf,
Sum in Owosso This Fall.
The Union Telephone Company's
co istruction gang have arrived in
Ovosso and will immediately begin
taking down the telephone poles in the
business district and putting the wires
under ground at a cost of f 40,000. The
work will require several months and
will be under supervision of George
Irwin of Saginaw and George Whitney
of Mt. Pleasant, under direction of
John Britton, construction superin
tendent. ;
Lieutenant M. J. Phillips.
i
Major M. J. Phillip?, who lost his
position in the U. S. Army service be
cause be held a position la the National
Gnard not recogi.ized in the regular
army, re-inlisted us u private at Gray
ling, Tuesday aud was commissioned as
a lieutenant and aligned as aide to
General Kirk at Grayiug.
Asks Re nomination.
Gilbert J. Cole is a candidate for re
nomination for the office of register of
deeds which he hs so satisfactorily
filled for several years, during a time
when an iiumeuna amouut of work bus
been transacted. The work.haa.Jei)n
kept up-to-date despite difficulties, and
everyone has been courteously treated,
put to no extra trouble or expense, and
the records are in most excellent shape.
Mr. Cole believes that the people prefer
to continue a good ofTk'ial in office and
therefore asks for the re-nominatlon.
GERKIT J DlKKEMA,
Candidate for Republican Nomination
for Governor.
Mr. Rnd Mrs. .1. Edwin Ellis and
children and Mr. and Mrs. J. M. Bent-
ley leave Saturday tor Carp Lake for an
outing. ;
If YOU are a REALLY GOOD 1
CITIZEN your nme will appear on
the roll of thon who voted at the
primary election at the close of the
polls on Tuesday next. i
A. C. MdHcn an officer of the Mason
Motor company, of Flint, appeared in
Cornnna Monday afternoon, admitted
speeding bis automobile l?9t week on a
stete reward "highway in Venice town
ship and paid a fine of $5 and 15 cottp.
Congressman Fordney will no donbt
receive a big vote for re nomination.
He is one of the ablest men in con
gress and Is probably the best tariff
man in the House. Mr. Fordney is
ranking member on the re publics n
side on the ways and means commit
tee, an honor that takes years to at
tain and only then bv men of high abil
ity. There seems to be little doubt
that the republican will carry the
house, and if they encceed in carrying
the senate Mr. Fordney will write the
next tariff law. Thi will be an honor
to the 8th District and Michigan an
well as Mr. Fordney. It! is to be hoped
that the people of this district will give
Mr. Fordn-y ao MiK'lully big vote.
St. Johns Itenui-licau.
COUNTY FAIR
BIG SUCCESS
Entries in All Departments
Large-Crowds Enjoy Fine
Racing, the Exhibits and
the Side Shows.
The Shiawassee County Fair opened
Tuesday with every prospect of a grand
success, the weather was just right, the
Floral Hall crowded with interesting
exhibits of many kinds, including
fruits, vegetables, fancy work, displays
by manufacturers, merchants, the
Canadian government, the Blind Insti
tute at Saginaw, and many others.
The show of stock was large and of
the finest quality on earth, including
poultry, horses, cattle, sheep and pigs.
The side- show attractions, midway,
Ferris wheel and the hundred and one
other things that make a crowd happy
were all there in full force and well
patronized.
The race department was the best
patronized of any in central Michigan
in years.
Those who have space in the Floral
hall are: A. F. Hollis, plumber; Con
nor Ice Cream Co ; The Foster Co ;
Charles McNally, garden produce; C.
A. Lawrence; Owobso Rug Co.; South
ard & Densmore; D. H. Day; The
Arthur Ward Co. ; Owosso Floral Co. ;
Osburn & Son9; Independent Stove Co.;
Osborn, the dry cleaner; Buick Agency;
Shattuck Music House; Nutson &
Wright; Overland Sales Co.; Canadian
Government; Saginaw Blind Institute.
Exbioits are being shown on the
grounds by Phillips Brothers, Crowe
Implement Co., Payne Implement Co.,
Hartshorn Auto Co., the United Engine
Co., and L. E. Shields.
The exhibits in the cattle department
are as follows: Frank ThomDson,
Elm wood farm, 12 head of Jerseys;
Nethaway Brothers, Curia od, six head
of Holsteins; D. D. Dntcher, Benning
ton, seven head of Holsteins; Monroe
&-LwU, River Edge Farm, 10 Hol
steins; Earl Vanderkarr, five Holsteins:
A. F. Loomis, 12 Holsteins; Merle
Shepard, two Holsteins; Charles Cook,
10 Jerseys; John Gokee, Guernsey bull;
F. L. Irish, six bead Guernseys; Fred
Martin, Owosso township, six Hol
steins; L. C. Kelley, Plymouth, 12
Polled Derhams.
Newton Barnhart of St. Johns, has
45 head of Duroc Jersey hogs on ex
hibition and Owen Loomis is showing
11 of the same breed.
John Gute has a fine Percheron
stallion on exhibition ; H. W. Hubbard
& Son of Ovid have 11 mules, two
mares with mule colts and one jack
entered. C. W. Sayles has a Shire
stallion entered.
Taesday's racing was much enjoyed
the 2:30 trot being won by an Owosso
horse, Lady I'atchen, owned and driven
by Henry Lamfrcm, which was a
favorite although she lost the first heat
to Ulhan Simmons. Bessie C was a
a contender in the second beat but was
taken sick after the heat and was
drawn.
The purse for the 2:30 trot or pace
amounting to $100, was divided as
follows: First Lady Patchen; second
Ulahu Simmons; third, Anna Mack;
fourth, Ginger Alo
In the four furlong running race,
Dr. Bouine took the lead almost
from the start and retained It with
out danger of defeat in both con
tests. The dash was negotiated in
"2 3-5, and the repeat in 52 2-5.
Variety was added to the card on
Tuesday by the introduction of a
handicap motorcycle race, in which
two Owoaso men were entered. The
contest, covering five miles, or ten
laps, went to Matt Ilauer of Flint,
with Earl May of Owosso second.
Leo McCall, also of Owosso, was giv
en a quarter of a mllo handicap, ow
ing to the fact that ho drove a stock
machine, the others being racers. All
of the motorcycles were Indians.
Summaries:
2:30 Trot or Pace, Purse $100
Lady Patchen, (Lamfrom) 2 11
Ulahu Simmons (Spangler) 14 3
Anna Mack (McXabb 3 3 2
Ginger Ale (Calkins) 5 6 5
William F. K. (Davis) 7 7 4
Bersie C. (Jenkins) 4 2 D
Mich. Belle (Sturels) ... 5 5 6 D
Galewood (Brown) 8 D
Julia R. (Garrison) D
Itunning Knee, lur.so $130
Dr. Bodlne (Jockey Johnson)... 1 1
Pheonlx Cottage( Jockey Berham)2 2
Russel Halifax (Jockey Shafer) 5 3
Bon Ton (Jockey Weinman)... 3 4
Shierless (Jockey Roche) 4 S
Wednesday's racing was most sen
mU.mI. Vastor. a ciav trelding. owned
at Bevcrtuivu, Oat., winning the 2:15
trot after losing the first heat to Josie
B, the favorite, and being compelled to
fight to the last inch in the next two
heats and in the fourth being twice
out of the lead caused by breaks but
winniog by a half length.
In the 2:14 trot or pace, Mussel Shell,
owned at Dundas, Out., won in straight
heats, the favorite Miss Preble taking
third money.
In the six furlong dash Dorson Dor
owned by J. J. O'Brian of Port Huron
won easily.
Ideal weather made good time pos
sible. The summaries:
2:14 Pace, Purse $.100.
MusselShell (Fleming) 1
Virginia Brooks (Doherty) . . .6
Miss Pheble (Campbell) 2
Fred C, (Doan) 3
Josie B., (Brown) 4 5
Elbrino Belle (Van Dusen) ...5 4
Kitty Russell (De Potter) ...7 6
Time, 2:lC2, 2:14, 2.14.
2:13 Trot, Purso $;JOO
Vastor (Ragsdale) 2 1
Josie B., (Calkins) 1 6
Decoration (Shackett) ....3 2
Alleroid Allerton (Maxan) .4 3
Sarah Douglas (Fleming). 5 4
Kitten SIdmont (Beaver) ..6 5 D R
Time, 2:16V4, 2:171, 2:16.
liunnlng Iluce, Purso $150.
Dorson Dor, (Roch) 1; Maxton,
(Kincn) 2; Benstone (Bernlngham)
3; J. C. Catwell, 4; St. Patrick
(Brow) 5; Eton, 6. Time 1:19 2-5.
The entries for Friday are as fol
lows:
Thursday at the fair saw the largest
crowd which ever attended, estimated
at 12,000, nearly one. thousand automo
biles being parked inside or out of the
grounds. The concession men did an
enormous business ana are nigniy
pleased with their Owosso visit.
The stock parade at 1 o'clock was as
good on quality as could be shown any.
where in the country.
U. C. T. Picnic.
The U. C. T. picnic held by Council
No 218, at McCurdy park Saturday,
was pulled off without any particular
excess ot preliminary arrangements.
Notwithstanding the temperature stood
at 102, J. D .Royce the Jupiter Pluvius
of the standing committee, saw to it
that there was an abundance of ice
water; a oO gallon crock of lemonade
aud ice tea In sufficient qnantities foi
the ablutions of the entire Mexican
army, with a chunk of ice left over the
size of a great big stone.
The usual sports and games and
some unusual and unique stunts under
the management of Secretary F. E.
Evans, were a success in every detail.
In the quoit pitching contest the
honors were carried oil' by J. J Brown
and Fred Van Dyne, after which Fred
sang "I've a Casket at Home," and Jim
Brown recited "One Old Brown Cot."
The large radiogram lamp furnished
by Uncle Bill Royce of the Superior
Mfg. Co., Ann Arbor, as a capital prize
for the fat ladies' race, was won by
Mrs. S. B Pitts, with full Instructions
how to run it either on high or low.
Address at Sunday School Gatherings'
The County Snnday School associ
ation is to bold a series of meetings
about the county next week and in
connection with the same the cause
of state wide prohibition will be pre
sented. The first meeting will be held
Sunday afternoon at 2 p. m., at the
Maple Riyer church with Rev. B. G.
Mattso- as the speaker; in the evening
at Bancroft, be will also speak. On
Monday, Rey. Hartley Cansfield will
speak at the picnic to be held at
Nicholson in the afternoon, and at
Byron in the evening. ; Tuesday, at
Bennington in the afternoon at 2 p m.
and at Shaftsburg at 7:30 p. m., Rev.
J. Frank Green will make the address.
For the other appointments of the
week, the places for which have not ps
yet been announced. Mr. Edwin Raw
den, attorney for the State Anti-Saloon
league, will be the speaker. He will
also be present at the county picnic
to be held at McCurdy park, Corunna,
on Thursday the 31st.
Wants Part of Estate
Christina Leisinger of Owosso, has
begun suit in the circuit court against
ber sister, Mrs. Louie M. Thompson,
and her husband, John Thompson, also
of Owosso. seeking a partition of her
mother's estate and an accounting.
The plaintiff sets up that before her
death her mother, Mrs. Helen M. Bai-
ley, deeded to Mrs. Thompson a hous e
and lot in Owosso, with the under-1 gagements.
' standing that she was to have an equal : He is one of the Ave Republican sena
share in the property. Mrs. Leisinger tors who constitute tbe managing com
says, however, that Mrs. Thompson mittee of the minority. The business
and her husband have resided in the , 0f thi8 committee is to keep in touch
, house or have rented it to others for; wltn tne program 0f legislation so as to
, several years and that she, Mrs. Leisin-' protect the rights of the minority,
ger, has never had auythlng out of the i Ue was the author of the bill to re
place. Thompson claims an interest in organize the life saying servico of the
the property because of the repairs he 0C9an ftn(j Great Lakes, and It w&a
says he has made to it. ' (Continued on page fj
SENATOR TOWNSEND'S
BRILLIANT RECORD
FIVE YEARS OF SENATORIAL AC
TIVITY MADE POSSIBLE BY
EXPERIENCE IN HOUSE.
NEVER DUCKED ON A VOTE.
When the Senate Returns to Republi
canism Senator Townssnd Will Be
One of Recogn zed Leaders.
Charles E Townsend was nominated
U. S. Senator at Michigan primaries in
August, 1910. Elected by Michigan
legislature in January, 1911, and took
his seat in IT. S. seuate Cn August 4.
1911. Is now on following committees;
Appropriations, Inter state Commerce,
Post Offices and Post Roads, Census,
Coast and Insular Survey, Pacific Rail
roads, and Public II alt h and National
Quarantine. The first three are among
the most Important committees in the
senate, and all of them, except Pacific
Railroads, are working committees.
It is generally known that Townsecd
is most regular in attendance upon his
committee meetings and btu helped to
shape some of the most impjrtaat
legislation enacted in the last six years.
He is one of the ten senators who have
been most regular in attendance at the
sessions of the senate.
He was a member of the commission
of three senators and three representa
tives on Parcels Post.
He was the Republican member of
the joint coininl-slon composed of three
senators and three representatives cre
ated to investigate Indian affairs. The
report of that commission led to great
reforms in the management of Indian
affairs.
He was the Republican member of
the conference between the two houses
on the amended Postal Sayings Bank
bill.
He was the Republican member cf
the conference between the two houses
on the Post Office Approplatiou bilJ.
It was his amendment aud largely his
fcfforts that secured for the rural letter
Hon., Charles E. Townsend.
carriers of the country I he salary which
he believed had been improperly with-
held from them by the Postmaster Gen
eral in 1914, although congress had ap
propriated the money in 1913. Thcau
salaries will now be paid.
He secured a provision allowing em
ployes of the poxtofficy department who
enlist in the national militia aud mus
ter for service to go back to their former
positions in the postoffice service when
they are honorably discharged.
He secured au amendment to the
Army bill providing for paying by the
government the transportetion expenses
of the militiamen who are diacuarged
on the border under th Secretary of
War's order t hat militiHmen with de
pendent families mav be discharged
He was a member of tbe committee
which framed tbe original Panama
C.tnal act.
He opened the debate in the eenata
on the Panama Canal act when the
president asked congress to reverse It
self as to "free toll." "He opposed such
action and his speech was largely quot
ed throughout the United States
He delivered a speech on the floor of
tbe senate ou th.j statement of Secre
tary of State Bryan that he could not
live ou $12,000 a year and must continue
his cbautauqua lectures, notwithstand
ing the disturbed conditions of our for
eign relations. This speech was aluo
reported throughout tin ciuntry. Ic
may have had nothing to do with Sec
retary Bryan's change of mind, but
after the speech was deliverf?d Mr.
' rjryan cancelled his Daid lecture n.
