BOLT everybody who is really interested in Wash
ington, the city's and people's welfare, reads
The Herald. The HERALD averages more than
30,000 paid circulation daily, which covers most of the
best homes in Washington.
A
"?t?? HERALD guarantees full moneys worth to
? the purchaser of'every article {not exceedmp
$50.00 in price ) advertised in ihr display roliimri?
of this paper by any Washington merchant.
vvi-ti,r? o^tsjis boston ?est eaaaan
NO. 336.').
WEATHER: RAIN, WARMER.
WASHINGTON. D. C, SUNDAY, .JANUARY 2, 1916.
FI\L CENTS.
SCIENTISTS GET
BIG WELCOME AT
BRILLIANT FETE
Pan-American Union Tenders
Reception to Delegates in
Session Here.
BARRETT GREETS GUESTS
Need of Closer Commercial
and Political Relations Will
Be Discussed.
LAW CODE MAY BE INDORSED
Congratulatory Cablegrams Received
by Convention from Presidents
of American Republics.
With ? luxuriant setting In tbe ma??
Biaccnt home of the Pan-American Union,
architecturally one of the moat beautiful
buildings In tbe western hemi?phere. a
brilliant reception la?t night su ten
dered to the delegate? to the second
Fan-American Scientific Contr?e?, now In .
????Sion her?.
Tbe reception area by far the-most bril
liant event of the day In Washington
? rsd su virtually the only event of Im
portance on the program of the conven- j
tloa. Nearly l.i*?J persons attended. In-.
eluding diplomats of all the pan-Ameri-1
can republics, government officials and j
many society folk of prominence.
The building ara? In gala attire for the '
occasion. The simple but woedrously ?
?sTectlve beauty of the architecture, with i
Its Spanish design and tropic?! effects. ?
ss a? enhanced by special decorations of
artistic conception Tbe Marine Bawl
Played during the entire evening, under
direction of Lieut. Santelmann.
Tbe gueat? were greeted at the do?*? by !
John Barrett, director general of the
Pan-American t'nion, who gave every '
one a warm welcome and happy greet- ;
lng. The receiving Una was forraetl
at th? heat) of the south stairway-?
In tbe line wer? o?0?4als of ?b? :
unten ?asi diplomati'? r?preaeatatives of
all of th? pan-<Jjneiicaa republic?.
The beautiful' "Hall el the Americas'
at the top of the stairway was utilised
CONTt.NCED OS PAG? TsVO.
Villa and Zapata
Start New Revolt
Manifesto Signed by Antonio
Gama Being Secretly
Distributed.
K> Paso. Tex.. Jan. 1. -Birth of a new
rrvaluUon In Mexico to overthrow the
recently res-ostnised ?'?Trent? government
waa announced today. Oen? Kranchsco
Mila and Emiliano Zapata will be chief
actors In the new movement, uccordlng
to handbills which are being ?ecretly dis
tributed In Mexican circles.
Thi? manifesto, which wa? drafted at
I'achussu on Isecember J5, la signed by
Antonio Wax Soto y llama, recently pro
is? i met? president of Mexico by G?n.
Zapata
Clama, who has been Zapata? chief ?d
viar-r ?tnre tbe revolution started five
year? ago. I? one of Mexico'? most tal
ented lawyer? and ?peaker?. He waa
Zapatas personal representative at the
revolutionary convention held at Agu??
? allenta? a year age and made himself
f?mou? by calling the Mexican flag a
'dirty rag." causing a riot at one of the
?rswton?. which nearly cost blm hi? life.
Three Killed in Trolley Crash.
Laport?. Irsd, Jan. 1.?A heavy for
this morning and a misunderstanding
of train order? are ?aid to be the
causes which led to the collision of a
passenger and freight ear on the Gary
and Interurban Railroad, eight miles
west of Laport?. The motorman of
the passenger train and two passen
gers w?r? killed and the motorman of j
the freight ear was so badly Injured
that hi? recovery 1? not expected.
Sight passengers were Injured.
Guaranteeing a
Price Limit
of $50.00 .
??? Drice limit of $50.00 is
.rade in the paper's personal
guarantee appearing m the right
"ear" at the top of this page,
???????side Trte HERALD name
plate, ?imply in. order to confine
the censorship to articles that
can be properly appraised by the
average merchandising man em
ployed on a newspaper advertis
ing start. Should any case arise
outside the tyOxn guarantee fig
ure, THE HERALD can be de
pended upon to exert itself in the
mterrst of the reader. Also thi?
paper will take immediate steps
to make impossible ? recurrence
of an> such advertising.
Is Sank Soon After
Promise by Austria
The Austrian note subscribing
to principles set forth by ttas
United Statu in regard to sub
marine warfare on passenger
ships was sent ?mt from Vienna
on December ig. The British
1 liner Persia was sunk December
jo, with, heavy loss of life, in the
Mediterranean, where the An
ima was sunk.
In the course of negotiations
with Germany over the Lusitania
sinking. optimistic assurances
also were followed by fresh sub
marine tragedies, such as the
sinking of the Arabic and the
Hesperian.
RUSSIAN LINES
PRESS ONWARD
Czars Troops Beat Back Aus
trian Forces m East
ern Galicia.
DESPERATE BATTLE NOW
RAGING NEAR BOUKANOFF
Slav Offensive Is Rapidly Growing in
Extent and Violence.
Geneva Reports.
Speri*, rablt? to Tbe Was-hlriffto?. HeriM.
Geneva, Jan. ?.?A violent battio Is In
procrea? in Eastern Galicia, where the i
Russians have taken the offensive. East;
of Boukanoff the army of Gen. t??
Borhmeir haa suffered a sehoua check.
I '.?patches from Vienna sao that the
Russian offensive ia no lon^r confined to
Reaxarabla. but i* rapidly ?jrrowlna; in ex
tent and viole.> e and is spreading- east
of the Strypa Rivar.
The Russians have achieved Important
gains in Galicia, while the Austriaca are
righting desperate to avert further loaa of
ground.
London. Jan. 1?The official report con
cernine the operations In th? western
theater of war folto wa:
"The enemy wa?* engaged in mintrg
actiMties laat night in the quarries north
of L-oos. Five mines wer? exploded. Tftey
oauaed only a few asualtie* and only
ill-;.?t damage to our trenchea No in
fantry attack was made and we are ro-1
?jairlni, the ?amagf.
Our heavy howitaers have caused con
siderable damage at various pointa."
Ford Home Again;
Says He Is "O.K."
Reaches New York at Mid
night and Will Disembark
This Morning.
Sprcial to TH* W*ra?l*?to? H?r*14.
N?w Tork, J?n. 2 (Sunday).?The Nor
wegian-American liner RergeriHfJoid.
bringing Henry Ford to these shores after
111 health had forced him to abandon his
peace ship, arrived at quarantine at mid
night last night. Shortly after 1? o'clock
she passed Fire Island and made her
way to the anchorage, where she will
wait the coming of the Immigration in
spectors this morning. She should dock
at her pier at th? foot of Forty-fifth
street, Brooklyn, about 9 o'clock this
morning. Mr. Ford planned to transfer
to a private tug about 7:30.
Mrs. Henry Ford and her son, Edsel
Ford, arrived yesterday afternoon from
their home In Dearborn. Mich., to meet
the pacifist. They were accompanied by
several friends from Detroit, and went
direct to the Hotel Biltmore.
Mr?. Ford and her son received many
notes and messages. One of them waa
from Prof. Stevenson, of the University
of Pennsylvania, who came to New York
yesterday with a delegation from an as
sociation of college students pledged to
the promotion of frieadly international
relation?. He explained that the uni
versity, which contains representative?
of practically all foreign countries, had
sent the delegation to express sympathy
with Mr. Ford'? ambU.on.
Mr. Ford on landing will go immedi
ately to the Biltmore and will probably
start for his home some time during the
afternoon.
The peace pilgrim sent no word last
night from his ship except to say that
his health was "?. K."
Western Union Lo?e? LiN. Suit.
Atlanta. Ga., Jan. 1.?In a decision
handed down thl? afternoon Judge
Newman, of th? Federal District Court,
sustained the Louisville and Nashville
Railroad's action In excluding the
Western Union Telegraph wire and
pole? from its right of way. Called
en to dismiss an ejectment suit filed
by th? Louisville and Nashville against
the telegraph company. Judga Newman
declined to do so.
British Search Dutch Hail Bag?.
New Tork. Jan. 1-While the Dutch
steamer Ryndain. which reached port
today from Rotterdam, was held up In
the Down? by a Brlti?h eruleer. 897
bags of Oerman. Austrian and Turkish
mail were taken off and searched by
men on the cruiser. Nothing of Im
portance was found and ths bags wer?
replaced.
In tan Inala?. Bank. 1*1? rhrtatssaa
Savings Club. Class?? i?. 50c, $1, and 12.
AIDS LACKING
AT RECEPTION
Secret Service Men Have to
Break the Ice at
Hot Springs.
MRS. WILSON IN PALE GREEN,
WEARS BLACK VELVET HAT
Tea Served in Hotel Lounge as Presi
dent and Bride Shake Hands
with Hundreds.
I
tt?*ei?I te The W?nhiiuxir-n Herald.
Hot Springs, Va?, Jan. 1.?Mrs. Wood
row Wilson made her Initial appearance
as the "first lady of the land" here thl?
afternoon. The President and Mrs. Wil
ton emerged from their suite at tea
time, and for a i most an hour eat in the
spacious lounge drinking tea and meeting
several hundred fellow-guests and an
other hundred native Virginians.
Mrs. Wilson wore a gown of pale green
shadow lace over cream lace, and a large
Mack velvet hat.
The lounge was meli Oiled when the
President and his bride appeared. There
was a rather awkward pause after they
sat down. Everybody appeared to be
waiting for somebody else to start
things. The President's naval or mili
tary aid usually starts the presentations,
hut neither was present Finally the
Secret Service men Jumped into the
breach and started the proceedings by
introducing Dr. and Mrs. Q. Illnsdnle. of;
Hot Springs, and after that the affair
moved amoothlv. A line was fotnned and!
(
th*? hand-shaking was soon over with.
Members of the Vanderhtlt and Harri
man families who are here were not
present.
After lunch a short motor ride was
taken to Heating Springs, and the Presi
dent and Mrs. Wilson walked back, a
distance of almost four miles.
The President has been informed of
the sinking of th- British liner Persia
only through meager press dispatches.
Newspapers get to Hot Springs twenty
four hours old. and no details were avail
able today. He had no communication
with the State Department regarding it.
and it is probable he will get no ofllMat
dispatches for several days, perhaps not
?mil the return to Washington the mid
dle of th* week.
Will the Great World War
Last for Another Year?
Famous Statesmen, Soldiers, Publicists, His
torians, Poets and Economists of Europe
Undertake to Answer the Question
The International .Xews Senice^ashed some of the foremost states
men in England, France. Italy, Germany and Austria this question by
cable : ?,
"IVill tke war last another year?" ;
Replies were requested to be cabled on New Year's Day. I:olloiv
ing are the answers. German and Austrian responses are delayed by
the absence of a direct cable. They will be published when receked.
By MAVR1CK ?HKTMM.lMh.
The Great Belgian Poet and Esaayiat
| Pari?, Jan. 1.?All ! ? Igl mi ? hope? Are
[for a speedy end of the war. Belgians
?yearn to return to their own devastated
?land and repair the war's honiblc rav
l ase?.
| When that moment will come, when the
Teuton hordes will receive the puniph
i ment they so greatly merit, cannot be
prophesied confidently, but I don't be
heve another New Year'? Day ?ill dawn
on th? bloody Ruropean battle!.elds.
Thf allies, with smashing blown on the
Inhuman enemy, must spar*-- mankind any
unnecessary prolongaron of the frightful
carnale.
Nevertheless, while I hell??ve a speedy
end of the w*\r If? dedir-Hble, in \ lew of
the interests or civilisation. ? would not
have a pat'hed-up peace.
Germany must be derisively beaten and
the Belgian army roust lend its strength
Belgrade Now "Wilhelmiburj.0
Paris, Jan. 1.?Belgrade, the capital of
Hernia, has b-een renamed Wtlhemnburg.
after Emperor William, according* to Red
??"rose workers who have Juat arrived
here from Serbia. It was aald that the
city waa renamed by Field Marahai von
Mackenaen upon exprcas orders from th ?
Kaiser.
William W. Supple?. Clubman, Dead
.Philadelphia. Jan. 1.?William W.
fiuppie-e. widely known financier and ?
clubman, died at his home her? today
at the ag-e of 83 years.
to a flnal blow that will shatter the
Kaiser's srmed force?.
By VICTOR AKsAGM?tR.
Minister of Marine in Vlvianis War
Cabinet.
Paris, Jan. 1.?Before the end of July
the war ?'III be ended. Meanwhile, the
G'rmans will be. forced to do something
on two great fronts and their attacks
cannot succeed. They no longer have
either the moral or material force to
ma ??? that possible.
They can never again ?how the same
vigor as th<\v did during the year Just
ended; they may renew their attempt*
In the north, but must fail. We are pre
pared with men and munitions for any
event
I feel more certain of a victory result
ing for the sities than ever before, and
G0??????1) ON PAtiB Fn.'R.
Al Ringun?. Circus Owner. Dead
B.traboo. Wii? , Jan. L?Al Rlngling.
eldest of the six brothers who thirty -
five years ago organised the Ringling
'brothers Circus, died today of heart
disease at his home here. He was 63
years old. Mr. Ringling had l>een in
ill health for two years and for the
last month his condition had grown
worse, but was not regarded as criti
cal until this morning. He is survived
by a widow hut no children. He Is
the second of the six brothers to pans
away. Otto Ringling died in Naw
York about five years ago. \
How Does a
*
One-Cent
Sunday Morning Newspaper
Strike You?
Say a seoenth-day continuation of a newspaper like the week-day
issues of The Washington Herald;
?
Plus a four-page "Pink Sheet" Sports Section, edited by our old friend,
"Bill" Peet, dean of Washington sport writers;
Plus all of those special features that contain real live news of interest to
all Washington?Julia Chandler Man ? s Dramatic Department,
"Doings of Society" Fraternal, Church, Army and Navy news;
Plus a four-page, four-column Comic Section to appease the kiddies and
those older children of the family, like grandpa, who absolutely
. refuse to "grow up"
Beginning Next Sunday, Jan. 9, 1916
.
The Sunday Morning Edition of
The Washington Herald
Will Be
One Cent
The Same Price as That of the Daily Issue of Washington's Fastest Growing Newspaper
OFFICIALS HERE
ACT PROMPTLY
U. S. Consuls Ordered to Get
All Facts Concerning
Persia's Sinking.
GRAVEST CONCERN IS FELT
OVER LATEST SEA OUTRAGE
Negotiations with Austria Over the
Ancona Affair Are Brought to
An Abrupt Halt
An official investigation to learn all
the facts and place responsibility for
the linking of the liner Persia, on
which at least two Americans were
passengers, was Instituted by the 8late
Department yesterday afternoon.
Following receipt of two official re
ports from Consul General Robert P.
Skinner, at .London, confirm ina th*
?inking of the vessel by an unidenti
fied submarine. cabled Instructiona
were sent to Arthur Garrela, United
Statea Consul at Alexandria. I c :
where the survivors are reported to
have landed, and to Olney Arnold, con
sul general for Egypt, to obtain affi
davits of officers and survivors and
cable them promptly to Waahlng-ton.
State r>epertment official? expressed
! the aravest concern over thia latest
submarine disaster. Coming at a time
' when the entire submarine controversy
was ronsidered aa practically settled,
the slnktna of the Persia was a d -
? tlnct shock to Secretary of Slate
Lansing*.
The immediate effect Is to bring the
! Ancona and Lu s Ha nia negotiations to
an abrupt halt It was definitely stat
ed at the State Department that no
? further overtures will be sccepted from
? either Austria or Germany until the
facta are obtained In the Persia dis
aster, and if thee* facts establish g-uilt
of the submarine commander, until fuil
disavowal is made and reparation of
fered.
It was definitely stated -?t night
that the question of whether the Ameri
can passengers aboard the Persia lost
their lives or were saved, th?* demand
of the United States would be the same.
as the unalterable position of thl.? aov
ernm^nt is that no Americans shall be
placed In jeopardy by inegal subma
rin? warfare. __?
AMERICANS ON BOARD
LINER TORPEDOED,
WITH LOSS OF 300 LIVES
British Steamer Persia Blown Up by Subma
rine in the Mediterranean and Sinks
V? ithin a Few Minutes.
NOT KNOWN IF SHE WAS WARNED
United States Consul to Aden McNeely and Charles H. Grant,
a Boston Merchant. Among Passengers?Survivors
Picked Up and Taken to Alexandria, Egypt.
??serial < als?? t? Tka Waafclaclaa Barai?.
Ivondon. Jan. 1.?The big Peninsular and Oriental liner Persia wm*
sunk by a submarine's torpedo near the isle of Crete on Thursday with
heavy loss of life.
Two American' are believed to have been lost. One. Rolarrt N.
McNeely. was I'nited States consul at Aden. He was on his way te
assume the duties of his post.
The other was Charles H. Grant, of Boston, a merchant on hts
way to Bombay.
A third American. Edward Rose, a schoolbov. who sailed from
I>ondon on the Persia, left the ship at Gibraltar
TOTAL LOSS OF UFI ESTIMATED AT 300
Th*? total loss of life Is eattmeted at
900 This ra leu la t ion is rete bed from
meager details thus far received. It
probably will prove more. The vessel
rsrrled SI passengers, ss nearly as can
be learned, and a crew of between 3fcs
and 300
The first direct news of the fate of any
of the passengers was received ton .?hi
by Iv>rd Mersey, who received s wireless
message from Alexandria statine that his
eldest ?on. Col. Charles Clive Bla-ham,
was saved.
60 rapidly did she aink after the tor
pedo struck her that only foar lifeboat?
were able to put off. Their capacity waa
sixty each.
Tbe Persia was torpedoed st 1 o'clock
in the afternoon. The missile lore a hole
in he- Mde bek>? the ?*-?:-- *??-?
*?*.<. four lifeboats were picked up he* a
?leamship bound for Alexandria Th?
survivors s.-oulc: have arrived at the
t;*-?. r*ti>r, pon this momUag
A brief bulletin sa y in?- that the loas
BAHXD FBOM LOKD05 FOB
The Persia, a steamship of > Qtp tons ?
sailed from this port for India on T"?ecem
ber If, Her passenger list at thst time
waa about Mi.
She touched et Gibraltar and st Mar
seilles for passenger* and mail. At
both ports she lost some of those who
had sailed with her from England and
took on others. When she straightened
away to the eastward from Marseilles en
the long run for the Sues Canal, she had
a passenger list totalling 31, by official
estimate?.
Her officer? and crew numbered be
tween So and 3**l The officer? and petty
officers ?ere all white men. ?hile the I
cresv, below decks and fc-wsrd and em- ?
ploy es in the steward*." department, were ',
principally Ijascara.
The Pernia was last heard from direct
ly by way of Malta. Submarine opera
TORPEDOED WITHOUT Wl
Whatever uncertainty existed as to ?
whether the Persia met her fate from
a torpedo was %m\ st reet by an official
notification to Lloyds. This stated ex
plicitly the cause of the destruction.
With that point settled, the discus
sion centered about two points: First,
whether warning was given, and. sec
ond, the nationality of the submarine
which delivered the thrust.
The meager details at hand convinc
ed those most conversant with the
situation in the .?astern Mediterranean
that the attack waa made, without
warning, by either a German or aa
Austrian' submarine.
It Is pointed out that a strict watch
has been kept In these waters for men)
weeks for British transports. The L?n- j
don view is that an enemy submarine
would not let an opportunity slip to deal!
a blow to an Institution so essentially j
Knglish as the P. snd O.
LIGHTED FUSE ON BOMB
FOUND IN STATE HOUSE
Infernal Machine Was Placed on I"loor
Under Masuchusett; Gov
ernor'? Office.
Sppnsl to Tb? Was?iricsaw HcsaM
Boston. Jan. t.?An attempt to Mow up;
th? Btate hou?? ?re? frustrated todas
when a suitcase containlnf; five pound?
of dynamite with ? lighted fuse attached
was discovered In the corridor outatde
the ofBce of Sergeant-at-Arms Thomas
F. Pedrick. The office of Ih? ?erajeam
?t-arme I? two floors below the gover
nor'? olilo? The Infernal marhlne ?u
In practical working order, and the dyna
mite would hai? exploded In time, a?
sras de motas-tratad when the Btate salice
later took It to ? suburban qaarry aad
?et off the explosive
The polle? figure that some otta fa
miliar with the State house plan and
corridor? and also familiar with the
movements of th? nicht watchman, man
aged ta plant the Infernal machine m Uh?
cerrador eome time dormi the night
No clew to the Identity of the plotter?
was irund
lala? ?Vavlaar? a??k. l?l? < hrtataaa?
Savin?? Cldb. Clj?**a ,t .(-c ?.. sad J:
? Adv.
of Mf? vas large ajad that te? ef taw)
mei* passenger? or cr?w ver? ??-rari Ira?
dirsi?* that good 4>rd*r prevailed aft?*
ih* ship was struck WKh th*
number of nomati and rhlVdrrn t?
taken rar* of. few meo could find
In th? boat?
Th* 4l*etn-ctlon. measured by I
la exported lo rank *<oood only to that
of th? LusUaaia
Th* Persia wii *?s rout* to Bombs?
On Thursday st raaon she wa* Ir ta*
?asters Between Ctrl? snd Alexandrie la
the ?astsrn Mediterran.*?' ? hlrh. with.?
recen! week* ha?? become the anm?anra*a
of several ?hips li wa? her* that that
Fr?a?rh rtentnrhtp Vi'la a** I? ?JVBta? ?Bi
ber fat?. ,
S) ?ta? ? ?a??? ?kssnrn t> ?a* Brttln* na
ie? ansmahuBU on th* watt* for
transports. Th? sassa-arlne wMch
the Vllk? de 1? C**io-t?t U ?aid to has*
flown th* Auntrtan flag
BOMBAT OK DECEASE? IS.
tiona lia? ' been *o sctlve In th? wate??
between Malta and th* cans? In th* last
fen month? that th* pert', ha? beep gva
erallv rei-a-agntsed The Japan Mail
Steamship lompar.? ha* abandonad taw
rout*, Bending* It? ?htp* now by a-ay sf
th? r?p? of Orwd Hope
Ab?ol4H*l>- no detalla of what e?
*4ied sfler th* torpedoing hev* yet
be?n Riada public It Is of conrs?. Ian?
pocaibl* to iruass whst Information assay
be to th* poKsesslos of th* admiralty
Th* v???*l csrrisd twepty-etx army
offlcrr? They were booked a* ordinary
ns,**en??r?. pot being on seti??? sai ?te?.
They ?r? auppored to hawe b?? ?a
ttirir way to their r-tn-rimenta In InaJtaV
Kd * art Ito?? who I* reportad *?
h??? left the Perei? at Gibraltar. Is ?
student at Eton. Kl? hanse la ta Dm?
v?r H* wa? going to South*rn ana? I a
to Join hi? father
BBTSG. LOBDOB BE1JXVES
Th* Pernia earned little tmrrro, ?art
he?v? mall? It la prwltl*wty naawawsna
that *h* wa? not tranaparthag war nss
terUl
A ouewtlon whl-*h will loans lares Ih
future dl*cua?i<Mi* ia whether or not aba
carried ?run* It 1* known that st tha
outbreak of the war Ine P. snd O.
were armed with two sun? of O
each, mounted far astern Vessels a-f
th* Orient Une. running to Austr
were similarly ?quipped
The panoenirer list of the Persia
she left Ixmd<an lnclt*ded ninety n-oaMSM
? nd thirty-one children, a nomber of tan?
latter beine babies Hew man? ?-?re?
aiKvard after th* transfer? at Gib
and Maraeilles 1? not known
Consul McNeeley reached K?
the Holland-American liner Ryn
which left New Tork November S Ha
wa? on his as? to hi? first post.
TEN CAPTURED IN RAID
ON HYATTSVILLE HOUSE
Six Men and Four w< <-m*iert Anr?t?**!
Man and woman Leap (rom Wia
dow and Rita to Wood?.
The hotHl?? *tj|ln?*( wa* broken a?
Hysttiville. Md . at "*? ?'cloak last n?g-bt
when rvpu4> Sheriff Thomai H Oar t
eon ?ed * ir? tacalar raid or a in aat
at Melroee and Ralh-oad a?-eniaea. anast
??? six men ?nd foar women
(.me of the women, who ?*a?? her ne*"??
a? Fannie ?eldueli waa charged anta
keeping a dlaorderlj noua* Th? other?,
who gave their name? ?. Alice. I-e?*?,
Helen 1**1?. f-lar? Barton. WHiaarn John
sor. Jrase Jones, Jo? l'urti* O C ('?-??aa?,
Beay RartclifT. aad ? M. Will lama wara
charged with ?Maarderty t-endort TV???
will be tried at ? o'clock 4uM?n? nan.
Ing at th* Biadewborg Jan.
Depuiv Sberla Uarrtaea. nas4*H*d at
Bailiff John Saunter, Asaistant HalnaT
W. V. Riiah ajad Hartar ?Ita. ?Sanfjt
their prt*oa?r? ?ander ail at after a
strussi?, dariag whtr-h one man naad
?mrnan leaped thioMgli a window ?at
?ata?id Ini? the wood? At * aat? bout
th? t*? who escaped had not been ca4*aah\.
