rBjP -jw t- jyn -"v-'f jp 'Wty' i"Wllli . Jl" ' 1
W t r
n-r -jn.
rt fTOfVTT
?
WEATHER FORECAST:
Partly Cloudy and Colder
(Full Report on Pwjre Two.)
sunday evening
Edition
y
.
'
NTT'AIBEB 87U7.
WASHINGTON STJ3STDAY EVENING, JANtlABY 2, 191G.
I'KICE ONE CENT.
IN 5 MINUT
ry-TT. .. ...y , J 1 jiim l'.'.JU)W'.y,-
PERSK
Si JJI
WARNING'
PERISH
PAN-AMERICA Capita "Peace Doves" on Ford ShipU. S. CUNbUL AMUJNb
Had Plenty of Excitement and Work VICTIMS ON LINLR;
YOUNG GRANT IS SAFE
FOR
nn
ui
MS TOPIC
ERMONS
N CHURCHES
Special Services Held in Honor
of Gathering of Latin-American
Scientists at Request of
State Department.
Principal Event at St. Patrick's,
' Where Many Visitors Attend
Mass Bishop Currier, For
.merly of Cuba, Preaches.
Complying with a request from
the State Department that today
be recognized anjdjphserved as
P5Sfftfant9amlav. many
TaBint(ftiirchurch)s Held special
services, which were well, attended
by savants'. fforii South 4nd Cen'
tral America and their .wives and
daughters. Sermons appropriate
to the presence of tm Catin
American' scientists and their mis
sion in the National Capital were
preached, and many references to
them and their peaceful, progres-.
s"ve labors were heard.
The principal service was held
rt St. Patrick's Roman Catholic
Church, where a great majority of
the South and Central American
. men and women gathered to at
tend the high mass and rjear a
sermon in Spanish, preached by
the Right Rev. Charles Warren
Currier, formerly bishop of Ma-
tanras, Cuba. The sermon was
subsequently delivered in English
for the benefit of the Americans
present in the congregation.
NOTABLES PRESENT.
The first twenty rows of pews In th
church were reserved for the Latin
AmerlcBR visitors, practically all of
them being Catholics. The delegation of
several hundred bavants "who attended
the mass -was headed by Ambassador
Suarez, of Chile, president of the Pan
American Scientific Congress. In the
pw with him and the adjoining pews
sat other diplomatic representatives of
South and Central American countries
and scores of the scientists attending
rlie sessions of the congress.
The decorations of the church were
(Continued on Fourth Page.)
. r- ' r- r .. l . vy '?sT-.aKv&r, 'unt.,. ryiH0rmBmem,2mmmiamBEa0m!mmmmmi
. iifeSSi,x.-v .. c..8ciJ,rfi, as. 'x&jxSiiiisBSBSSSKSKKKtKKKSKm
Official News Dissipates Hope That Exten-
, uating Circumstances Might Be Found
For U-Boat Attack Demands Upon
German and Austrian Governments lor
Information Likely.
.
i
Top Row, Left to Right JOHN ENGLISH, RICHARD ENGLISH, T. J. BALDWIN, G. P. BOWMAN, SALVADOR DBMMA, MISS LAURA
JAKER; ROBERT B.' BERMANN, MISS MARY SEAFORD, SKELON HIGGINS, MISS MARY MARTIN, HARRY COFFMAN, a
stenographer.
Bottom row, left to right P. S. NEELY, chief clerk Ford Motor Car Company; HENRY FORD, MISS MARIE LUISE WISSINGF.R, BERT
EMERSON, LOUIS P. LOCHNER, peace secretary to Mr. Ford; MISS JULIA STEVES, E. C. SCOTT, VON AISDALE B. TUR
NER, MISS ANNA BLACK, a delegate; ISADOR CAESAR, MISS LEONORA KAUFFMAN. COL. R. H. HENRY, FRED E. SN1F
FEN, and REXFORD HOLMES..
, j
PEACE ML FORD
ELUDES REPORTERS
Arrives at New York irt Fog and
,
Flees on Neutrality Yacht
Guide
T
OUT BIG ARMY
OF HIGH SCHOOL BOYS
Plan Proposed Would Provide by
1922 Almost Two Million
Trained Young Men.
CHICAGO, III.. Jan. 2. A nation-,
wide move to enlist Into a cadet
army the 300,000 eligible young men
who enteV the freshman classes or
the high schools of the United Btates
each year Will bo launched at a meet
ing to be hold In the Hotel LaHalle to
morrow. The movo has the sanction of the
Vederal War Department and the
superintendents or public Instruction or
about twenty-tlye States.
A bill will be submitted to Congress
as soon as all the details of the project
are worked out. It lsfbclevcd that by
then tho movement will have tho sanc
tion or all the States. ......
Hackers of tho move ilKuro that by
1W2 and thereafter the United States
will have a trained body of 1.W0.WH
young men available for waf If such
neea
Washington Newspaperman, Who Sailed as "Eng
lish Critic," Declares Real Trouble Was That No
body Knew What He or She Was Expected to
Do Birthday Party to Capitar Girl Unit
ed All Factions at Feast.
XltW YORK. Jan. 2. Henry Ford,
apostle of peaco and maker of the fa
mous Ford flivver, arrived In New, York
earlv today In a foft and Rloom a deep
as that in which he left his disciples in
far-away Copenhagen.
The Kentleman from Detroit was up
early aboard the Norwegian liner Benr-
ensford. and he evidently had taken
pains to avoid the publicity which an
interested public was tryinf? to thrust
upon him.
FleelnR the newspaper men. Mr. Ford
was spirited away aboard the neutrality
yacht Guide at the special order of Sec
retary of the Treasury McAdoo. The
Guide Is a motor yacht, which patrols
the Harbor In the interests of neutrality.
Is "Near" Official.
Bhe was Used to take Mr. Ej'ord off
the liner because he. as a member of
the naval advisory board, is considered
to be In Government employ in a semi
official capacity.
The Guide left the Battery at 7:20, She
waited for Mrs. Ford. Edsel Ford, son
of the peace apostle; Mrs. Dean Mar-
KUls. a friend of Mrs., Ford: W. A. Uv
'(Continued on Second Pace.)
KAISER CONFINED TO
BED, HOLLAND HERS
General Physical Depression Said
to Bar All But Certain Of
ficials From Room.
AMSTFSKPAM, Jan. 2. Desplto ontl
mlstlc reports appearing in the Ger
man newspapers, the Kaiser is confined
to his bed and nllrwcd to receive only'
certain officials, according to advicea
received here
He Is said to be suffering not only
from virulent carbuncles, but trom a
revere Inflammation of the throat and
general physical depression, the result
of his vlblts to tho battle fronts. Physl
claiw ha vii hern unable to remove ihi
danger of blood poisoning, it was stated.
The Kulserin is' personalty nursing
the Kaistr.
By ROBERT BASTIEN BERMANN.
Before I start my story of the Ford peace expedition I want to
correct a few popular misimpressions.
The voyage was a joke how could a peace trip which civil war
constantly threatened to disrupt be otherwise? but it wasn't a wild)
revel. Everything, almost, was conducted in a moderately parlia
1 mentary fashion, even though somewhat tumultously, and the things
that did happen were rather spectacular than dissipated.
Also, as to my own personal capacity, I wish to say that I was
just about the most insignificant person aboard. While I sailed with
the high-sounding title of "English critic," my actual status was just
about midway between that of a messenger boy and Jake, the stow
away. And at that I fear I'm doing Jake a bit of an injustice.
And there were ,no squirrels.
PURELY A WASHINGTON STORY.
This Is to be purely a "Washington
sj-iry of the trip: but td make you un
derstand Just what hapnened it will oe
1U II TO GO
ON THE LAFAYETTE
Prospective Passengers on
French Ship Get Letters Sim
ilar to Those on Lusitania.
necessary to sketch a brief resume of
the, actual trip, as U has been partially
outlined In the newspapers.
The peace trip was a war from start
to finish. Then were, primarily, lights
among tho delegates: tbere were lights
in tho "directing organization;" there
were fights in tho buslnoss office: there
were lights among the repqrters: and
there, was a constant fight between all
tho groups.
The real trouble was tint nobody
knew ,1ust what he or sho was to do:
the delegates didn't, the business office
didn't, tho "directing organization"
dldn't-iand even te newspaper people
weren't" quite sure. .
I think about the onlv person aboard
who reallv had any definite Idea of the
Initial mirnoses of the expedition wob
Hrnrv Ford-and ho didn't do any talk
ing ufter he had a few glimpses of Jlfo
aboard, the Oscar.
The bis split, of course, was over
preparedness tho Jones-Aked-Behwlmt
mer faction wanted tho United States to
disarm right awRY. as a sort of example
to the, warrjng nations; tho McClure
Bernsteln crowd wanted to establish
peace jflrst and disarm afterwards.
A set of resolptlons was drawn up,
denouncing the President for his mes
sage advocating a larger military, and
tho delegates were told that they would
have to sign If thiy wanted to take part
la jUt anal pcac conferences Tbat
started McClure. and. with everv man
with any politics! connections at home
mil a great many without, he refused
to sign.
Out of this row grew fight after fight:
charges against Mme. Pchwlmmer, Louis
P, Lochn,r. Dr. Charles P Aked. Dr
renldn T4ovd JoneR, S. 8 McClure and
(Continued on Twelfth Page.)
BOY OF 15 HeTdFOR
SHOOTING ASHMAN
Youth Says He Was Firing At Tin
Can When Man Was Wounded
In Chest.
Flfteen-year-ojd Edward Fanning,
who lives with his widowed mother at
1812 Thirty-sixth streot northwest, is
held at the House of Detention today,
pending developments In the condi
tion of David Thompson, colored, an
ashman, who was shot in the chest
while emptying his wagon op Fow
ler's Will, Canal road and Thlrty-Bixth
street, northwest, yesterday.
Thompson, according to physicians
attending htm at tho Georgetown
University Hospital, Is expected to
recover.
Fanning told the police he was fir
ing at 'a tin can with a ,22-callber
rifle nt the time Thompson was shot.
The hoy is charged with violating a
police regulation which forbids chil
dren under slxteon years of age
handling weapons of any kind. The
police say Fanning admits firing the
hat which wounded Thompson.
NEW YORK, Jaji. :.-Amtrican pss-
scngcrs soiling from Bordeaux for New
York on tho Lafayette have received
I warnings similar to those rece'ved by
passengers on the Lusitania on her
last trln. according t.. a cable dispatch
from Richard Har-llus Pavis, in Paris,
to the New York Timet.
The 'able said tho most prominent
passengers received "letters the same
as those sent to the manager of the
Empire Theater when he sailed from
New York,"
Charles Frohmin. manager of the
Empire Theater, received a letter of
warning before he ocardert the Lusi
tania, May 1, !?15. Ho was ore of tho
ill-fated passengiTS on tho steamship
LuBitanla when eho was torpedoed and
Bunk by a Oormnn submarine off tho
coast of Ireland on thj afternoon of
May 7.
On the morning of the -ship' depar
ture tho newspapers mmllshed he fa
mous advertisement of the German em
bassy warning American travelers not i
S.1 IIWII lUII AS I IIIHII .flK. ll-, UIIM Ul St V
pier Just before the ve8el sailed there
were many tunotls that naseng. In
cluding1 Alfred Vandurbilt. Mr. Frth
man. and otlurs, had received tele
grams and letters warning tnem spe-
rlflcnllv that it would not bo Biff to
sail on the Lusitania. Mr. Frobmm
It vtoj reponea. irnu rcceivcii si nn
office, the day before an undated anon
ymous note, de'lvercd hv meisengrr.
aulni, tinr It wr.illri nrht hi, Knfa in fe.ill
on tho Lusitania I
As having possibly somf bearing on
Ihe meinlng of Mr Davis' dlspxtch from
Paris. It may be stated thst The Times
has knowledge of an Intending paRnen
gpr on the Lafayette who canceled his
passage a few days ago,r and notified
his friends In AYnerlea that he was co
in? to Kncland to sail on an English
vessel. He was anxious to reach New
York as quickly as possible, and had no
mrtlcmar Dusincss to cuu mm io ing-
and.
I
'$100,000,000 Demanded
Of Germany by Turkey
ZURICH. Jan. 2 That Turkey ha3
damanded lOO.OOO.ooo of Germany to
meet a Icflclt in the Turkish treasury.
I reported here todajr.
The British steamer Persia was torpedoed without
warning by an unknown submarine and sunk in five min
utes with an estimated loss of 245 lives, according to an
official dispatch to the State Department today from Amer
ican Consul Garrels at Alexandria, gypt.
Charles H. Grant, of Boston; one of the Americans
aboard, was saved. V , --Z '
,. Robert N. McNeety toerican' consul6. jArden,
Arabia, was last seen struggling in the waters and is be
lieved to have been drowned.
The State Department gave out the following para
t phrase of the official dispatch:
"Persia sank 300 miles northwest of Alexandria at
1 :05 on the afternoon of December 30. Steamer sank in
five minutes. No submarine was seen, but an officer-of the
Persia saw its wake. One hundred and fifty-five out of
4,00 passengers and crew were landed at 'Alexandria," Jan
uary i. Charles H. Grant among survivors, but McNeely
was probably lost, as he was last seen in the water..",
PREMEDITATED MARITIME MURDER.
Receipt of this official news dissipated "the hope offi
cials had that extenuating circumstances might be found
for the Persia disaster. The sinking of the vessel without
warning and with such heavy loss of life is considered sec
ond only to the Lusitania tragedy as an example of pre
meditated maritime murder.
The dispatch was immediately sent to Secretary of
State Lansing and a copy was wired to President Wilson
at Hot Springs.
In view of the fact that the submarine was not seen
by officers or passengers of the Persia, and its identity
therefore cannot be established, it is considered highly prob
able that prompt demands will be made to the German and
Austrian governments for information, with respect to the
submarine's nationality. , .
The dispatch from Consul Garrels did not state, from
what source the information contained therein was ob
tained. Cabled instructions were immediately sent to the
consul to obtain affidavits from officers and passengers,
particularly from the American survivor, Charles H. Grant,
with a view to determining all of the facts in the case so
far as they are known. An intimation in unofficial sources
today that the Persia was an armed vessel was taken as an
indication that this might be one defense set up by Gew
many or Austria for the attack. J
THIS LINE OF DEFENSE INVALID.
That the United States would reject this line of de
fense was definitely indicated by officials.
Attention was called to the fact that the United States
definitely placed itself on record on the question of arm
ing merchant vessels of belligerents in official instructions
sent to port collectors on September 19, 1914. In this of
ficial order it was declared that the United States would
consider it an indication that armament carried is hot in
tended for and will not be used in offensive operations if
the following facts are shown:
' "That the vessel carries passengers, who areas a
whole unfitted to enter military or naval service of the bel
ligerent whose flag the vessel flies, or of any of its allies,
and particularly if the passenger list includes women and
children."
This is the only defense that officials conceive' could
be entered by the submarine commander, as official inform
