nE2
v;i s
"Wlfi
,Tjeff
THE TOMBSTONE EPITAPH
Published ery Saturday evening,
gives all the news of the week, county,
state and gem ral, and more especially
eveuts una iippcuiug vi intenst to
the people or Tombstone and Cochise
county. Ycarlv subscriptions $2 SO
THE TOMBSTONE EPITAPH
?lMi
SUBSCRIPTION RATES:
One Year $2 50
Six Months 1 .25
Single Copies (M
Address. Tomdstone Epitaph,
1 on bstone. Arizona.
J?
WEEKLY EDITION OP THE TOMBSTONE DAILY PROSPECTOR
VOLUME XXXVI
TOMBSTONE, COCHISE COUNTY, ARIZONA, SUNDAY, JANUARY 2, 1916
NO. 9
i
ASWUiv
, ' m v . . - v;
MMiMHMBWMjiBK!93Se9nM
flLtn
mil I ir i '
Willi
S ar
W
;v
FfNLEY JUNIOR AS A BOY OF WEALTH.
O
ii5jiliaKssMiifi 'c
ARIZONAPIONEERS ELECT,
OFFICERS; COCHISITES
ARE HONORED
Tt CSON. Dec .41 B a unatn
mou.vote. J Knot Corbetc wis es '
terday el eled president of the Anzona
Pioneer's Stiely. succridmg It C t
Brichta Tlit oI er officers elected I
were
Vice-president Willum Fourr. A-a 1
Ualker. Cochise Joseph Ki'ibey, Man
copi K Wells. A J Doran. Yava
pai J C Devine, Pinal O I' Town-,
Isend J V Doriiugtoii, Yuma Hvnry
10018 BACK
WARD YEARS
1 TOMBSTONE
Interesting Items that Ap
peared in the " Prospector,"
this Date, 1891; Remin
iscent of the Pioneer Days
WORK PROGRESSING ON
EXTENSION OF THE
COUNTY JAIL
RHEIMS CATHEDRAL TODAY.
.A,,,
mixid
iu r a
banta Cr,z- M-le-Miiheltna.
Graham,
Globt, .M. V Fue-
Uood. Ftdro
Hmson Thomas,
man W P B, Field. I'lina
I M J-cobs nai elected treasurer
Jo n E Magic wf o has served effic
len'lj as -trretar for several ytars.
w -s re elected
WciL has been started and is pro-sre-
ing satisfactorily on the erection
of the ado;" ion to the Cochise county
'jul uti the jovemleoiiptrtmen which
is being constructed under the direct j
uper iio i of the bo ird of supers isors. I
The cement has been unloaded into
the jail j ar J and the building is expect
ed to be completed wil'un due time.
all necessary materia! being on hand.'
This is the contruciioii work that the '
Hl ysd"rtak ti.fnlv
I
! The dines of suicide is badly
I10--.I H-.
up dv tne case oi 'Mrs iancy ienneuy i
i i ... r ... i -v.- instead of !ettin it oat on contract
an aged resident oT Augusta, Me , who
... , . the bids hatnir appeared too high
praedfr three quarters of an hour " . -h
jihat she rntoht li. aud who did die it j
I the end of thai time
Photo copjrbcbt. I'lS by merlcan Prcs Aisorlatlon.
- rt pkture of l-lii!e. Mii-pard Jr Mu'e his adoption by Flnley J Stwp
ard and hl wife fo-nitrlv Hpien Could lit 1 seen leavliij hU car ulth hU
nurse.
PUBLIC FO
A NEW YEAR'S MESSAGE
Dear fnrnH
In a few hour wc hill stind en the
1 r slnld of a nw cr We can
.rtf-ij aumr I liar w? all wih to make
Th sf'uiul hi ccrcd with
I jct f nov ihis mornins i
I
Mi Huiv.Lcr, who resigned her'
ptMiion in lu Tumbstone schools.
i!l fco lo ban Uirgo short!).
r;ARIZ0NARAN6ESMAYBE
MADE TO SUPPORT
MORE GAHLE
Jfsp de la Rosa, who printed the i
fir-T newspaper In California, at Mon- t
te i in I3! has recently died in
ntura. at the age of 103 ears
(.Cos who in co-npan with a
fn i 'f't a -.hart tioic ago for a trip
ihro u Veico was talen serioul
.) . n..nt-i. mlia.n ie f.!( till .ten
lit UI "U-AI.- rt'l I....... ---
! was talert ill im died from pneumonia
The Arizona Came Growers' Asso
ciation ha5 inwtrd the followms au
thorities of the Umversit of Arizona
to speak at us annual meeting, which
will be held at Prescott Januarj 10th
o l-'th I)r R H. Williams, animal
husbandman of the agricultural experi
ment station, wll dicns "Quality vs
VvJkWW.MJi - lilt ; I tt i r A 01 fcj-sJv---.-- ,l i -: , r ---- rj
81 il SI1 Iff ' f,ff5l'&H 1
1 ' wttw I
ml mmWmmWM$HmM ml
ml mf0ki ml
ml mmwMfiM ml
JAiiflYTERMflFploiE,s m ml'::
un.cunui ii-iimui t at nnccpnTT III ltato"
HI I III i II If 1 1 I niB
OTHER ENTfiANT
the er best start m ibis coming ear.jMr . brouht ,Q Tornn,tont i Numbers in Range Cit tie " I'rofes-or
Ivhr he is no vbemj cared for at the I ' w Barnes. live stock specialist of
otia! cfcurih we wjIi
arttrd m yeal rarnet t
i P?Iac
TUC
illL
SUPERIOR
f
nuwT th n
nous iu d
LONG Oi
daj. The greatness I
of the work demands this. The Pepub'iean announces tne wea-
2very forri of hont. -ltg.t.maie '''-K jesurdt of Gen Clark Churchill
work is sufiicientlv important to d-1:"" M' Virginia Goodrich Thev
man.) . ur best efforts lint the work j "' ' roan nn,J Wl,e b ,I,e bea"-
Dec 31 Vr J
i SSkSHl lil Kh PRESCOTT. Am
UyUih IU UL mo
Home
a fttblc state of health
morths, incidental to his age of oer
rinety jears His life ended as if go-
iing mm sleep, and his last hours ner
filfl f!a;p Will Rf Lnncpst.: L....J..1 ...,i i r -.,!,.
t .. ., , i of the ablest ra;mbrs ol the bar in
- -.... , i i..- .(.). r ltni message, icis aiucai
Other CaSeS Will KUn , - ' """ " " I T ... ,.n,aarchuu ! .he west. The bnde and groom ha.e
i coming to a close i -..- - . .. u . u n
I a i ...... .nti r.ij.n.Te tn TnmlKtnn Rhn will
This Hassaamper was prominentlx I their church home, aud also all those
of the v-hurrh is of the hisses- order , "ful and "ntpte-Mse c-remony of the
btrassedaw'a, the Pioneers I because .,, do w,, moral an. Ca.hohc Church . the pres-nce of a
: on Chnstmas da. after being in Np.m-1 -lues wb.ch are the bas of few .nnma.e fami.v f,d. The bnde
for man I all true prosperity, of the highest f ,,'-"'--""" - "
,f o,! of en. Hzat.on. and of all genuine hap i ch- "'" Sneralof Arizona
piness This work therefore d.mand. . eral Church.il held the ofhee of
the best that is in us Hence I cm. attorney general under three different
the Agricultural Extension Service, will
I speak on 'Range, Sanitation" As a
result of considerable stud on the ,
part of these profe sors n :s beli-ved
that the cattle rants of Vnzona may
be made to support rrau ihoiij?ad'
more of caltlc than at present.
Photo by American rress Association
The Cathedral of lllu uis trlpIlCll of all Its movable statm- and art relics
and protected from the c.aiua4l.iM sueiU as louip'Utlj as human Ingenuity can
proK- t lu
QTuT?llPyrTW0i JUiD mew m-
uiniLui j s l i, i;
with grtat confidioce bring to ou
admmistrs ions and is considered one
TOMBSTONE
Term to February
The Januarj criminal terra of the
known in serj early days in Arizona j who have no other church home
and was i practicing physician whoic
Superior Court promises lobea length only fault was hit open generosity
this town I wi.h to ay You are al1
most cordially insiled to attend our
iprcss the roost cordial wishes for the
happiness -( the newly wedded pair
... . .. I e -t . t. . J- A ...AMA nM.I ! --...., Cnm In nor Jri Vfflr'e
one Al present mere arc it irircn i scores oi trip uc muc m suut .i. 9siiv.3 .....
prisoners iu rail awaiting trial with ' allevtst the sufferings of mankind and i services next Sunday, in the morning
!.
more than that number out on bail . to attend those who were wounded by-
There are three murder ca-.es to be ' Indians His field wa in 'he southern
beard t the Old cas"- set for January 10. part f the state and those m Saaora
Leardro Maldonailo. charged with the who frequently requested his service
killing of Officer Brooks, of Bisbee. and Jai'es W. Leehy. also a member of
Walter Powel'. char, e 1 with killing , the Pioneers' Home died on Sunday a.
another negro at B.,bee. J he a?e of 71 years. He was a natne
It is expected that it Till tike all of j of Quebec. Canada, coming to Arizona
January and February to dispose of ,ii ISS1. locating at Toabston- and
the calendar. The Olds case will pro-1 following the vocation of a miner His
bably take an entirr week, as it is ex ' Ubors underground undermined a vig
p.c.ed that trouble will be had ,a orous health. He bad been ,n
,,;. The other cases will I poor health, and was admitted to the
K.rrh I home nearly three years ago. Leehy j
avnc u .- , .
The attention of the Court was today y Popular as a man. and was
taken up in tbeanng of short case, and J acknowledged to be an excellent miner
L , , , . Judge Crosby, of Apache county, has
clearing up the docket for the new
1 ...- .1 - rHer for the admission of
sear, and a Urge number of cases wt re - ,
dispose o . Prescott, according to word received
18 R LI IP PUT lnt ;.it"l3V' Colonel Banta is one
Vl IU fllir'l0' ,he bardy pioneers of Arizona oae
of the territory's first newspaper men.
j and has bad a long and useful career 1
.in both prisate and public life. He is"
I p-st 72 years of age.
at 11. ana in the evening at 7 3
! Vnur nresenre will helo us And an
tl.ing else you can do to help our woik
will be greatly appieciated In the
great work we need the co-operation of
you all
To those who are affiliated with the
other two churches of the town I wish
to say We do not solicit your attend
ance Whenever you have service in
PEOPLE UPHOLD SCHOOL
m FIRED FOR
J
PHOENIX, Dec 31. By a vote of
41 to 33 the residents of the Fowler
district expressed their willingness to
your own church we feel that you leirstle Catrie Green Billings, the
will rightfully go there. When you ,taCher dismissed by the trustees of
have no service we shall be glad to i chool District No 43. It is under
welcome jou to our thurib, as w'Jjtood that certain members of the
shall be slad to iit jour church wh-n j ooarii have declared that they will lg
we 1 -ippen to have no service. For we ) m(re ,ue WISPes of the majority of the
P Plir i here y
Hflii iu ourv"
FOGATEO BY FUMES
OF OIL SHE
havi. the sam God, we are serving tl e
same master, anil wc ate all trying to
do the Lord's work.
And to all the people of the town I
wish to say. We should be very
pleased indeed to make the acqtain
lance of vou all. We are nei
And lellow town'men In all work
that will be for the -nateriil, intellec
tual, or raorjl be'K'rm. it of the town
voters, and if that be true, the "peopli"
who favor the reinstatement of the
teacher will I egin mandamus proceed
ings against the board.
"" 3y an agreement the board, com-
hbor, ' p'ising of J, P Ivy. Otto Green and
II F. Homer, decided that no married
woman would be employed in the
schools.
ling with the sensathn of being uffo- j I shall be more than glid toco operate.
jcpted. H jumped to his feet to fiid jLet us work together as citizens of
iheriKim tilled with smoki and gas. JTrmbstone. to realize the highes'
FOl'ND A postoffic-keyin front of
j Mrs Rob nson's res.dence, on Frement
DOUGLAS. Dee 31 To be suCo
cated todea'bby thrfumesfroro a coalrbut manaje(1 tojU;ser jntoth. open j 1(jeai, for ur town, till -there shall be j street. Owner can have same by call
oil stov- wh.le !eping n his own bed
was the fate-
Mirarrla
wh.le !e ping n his own bed. ( ai jIc hastily called a neighbor and J no place, where we would rather raiseMnga
ate- wlich overlook Joa1ui!5 j ,og,lter ,fce two ,t;,d to enter Miran- jour boys and girls than right here mlpayi
last night at lit room at 62i j da-$ room ,,ut were driven back by .our own town Let this be our aim I
treet Slecptnsm an adjoining ' amJ T(l uft theduf;oc the year I0IC
rather raise ling at this office, proving property and
ng for th.s ad. tf
Secenrf street Siecptns in an adjoining
room was Anatacio Cas'illa The par
...: hetween the tnamt
drcs no:
outside door 'pen until there was
sufficient freh air in the oom to per-
pro
reach ihf e.l"e an'1 lhe ,UIE" frora n.u them to enter When lhe reach
the sookirg stove peneirattd his room.
Castillo awoke about 5:30 this oorn4evidem,T bi4 or Mme xiat,
ed Miranda's Led be was dead and
I wish jou all a very happy,
p-rons new year.
Yours for the best interest and wel-j
fare of Tombitone and its people.
REV. ALBERT AMUNDSEN
NOTICE
Tl e necesarv work has been done
for 11)15 on the ?Ionadnoc claim, in the
Tomb tone district.
tf , J.ROCKFELLOW.
TOWN TOPICS
TERSELY TOLO
Stormy Weather
For the lasi three days a storm made
up of snow, wind, sleet and rain has
been hovering over v.ochise county and
yesterday reached the propo-tions of
a preity stiff gale This morning it
changed to rain and snow It is doing
one or the other all over Cochise to
day. A heavy snow tall is recorded
from the Huachucas
From San Diego
Mrs. A. L Shepard arrived from San
Diego loday and will spend the balance
of the winter as the guest of her
daughter, Mrs. A. H. Gardner.
In Sssjion Today
The board of supervisors was in ses
sion today receiving the monthly re
ports of the county fficers, and Mon
day will meet to receiye the annuil re-
Doris ' As provided by law the office
if County Treasurer Ross was checked
ind the cash on h nd was $472, 985 OS
segregated into cash in bank, gold, sil
ver an I currency.
Visitinj Fr f nds
Miss Emma Johnson and brother
?ritz. are spending sev.rai days at Ft
Huachuca with friends, a nd will return
in t-me to attend school Monday,
Auditor Here
B. A. Jrnmngs. of. the Auditor's of
gj 2t Loug!t?. w!,s a visitor in Tomb
stone today on business with the local
Bunker Hill Mines Compaay office.
Back to Tombstone
Brak-man Win. Smith, of the local
run of lhe El Paso and Southwestern'
returned to Tombstone, Texas, where
he has been on a visit with relatives for
the past month, and will be back on
the job in several days.
FOR BIB HI
FROM BAIL-ROADS
ICO TO HOLD JOINT
cofflenofi
Corporation Commission is
Sued to Recover Fines
For Contempt
PHOENIX. Dec 30-
Word hjs mst ht n received bi Prof.
(, Is P Smith irrigition engineer of
tin- University ol Arizona agricultural
enpeiimeut siition. from lhe United
states Reclamation Service that the
Irritation Confrence lo be held in
Tucon on January lo will include rep
resentatives feom the Rio Grande ind
Carlsbad reclamation projects in New
Mexico Ttis makes the conference a
hi state meeting and adds greatly lo
its importance Mr. I D. O'Donnrll,
Jud;e S.an ni ,he Reclamation Service, who has
ford of the superior court vestcrda j j charge of the program, states that spe
upheld the state glinting judgment clai spc-cial pakers w'll be prtseut
for the plaintiff in the case of the An- fron1 j,,,.,, Mexico, as well as from Ari
zona coiporation tomrii'cioii agmnst ' zona. n effort is also being made to
the Arizona Eastern and Southern I trcure special speakers from Caliform i.
Pacific railroads. The case h i been , f his Irrigation Conference will be held
under advisement for some time Tne iljring tin Farmer's Short Course, and
comm-ion brought suit to recover tines peeul railroad rates will be available
imposed upon the railroads f r con f ,r tu who wish to attend.
tempt. The case will lit appial d.
The suit was firs
Campbell Limed Can
Campbell people apiealid to the cor
poration commission bnninj chargis '
againts the railroads on the grounds
that it was cot treated fairly. The ,
?;!.,'.7,;::;i;'R0SS SAYS BOOTLEG
GERS ARE FIRE
i
carnival company clatm-d that the j
railroad had discriminated in the ratts ,
charged in transporting us prop-rty j DOJ GI.AS, I'ec ..1 That bootleg-
and that of a circus Th- commissior I 8ts m-ke fin- norkmrn on the county
ordered the defendent t 3 transport the j roads that pracucaliy none of them
cars, property, employes and aiund , goes bsck to bootlegging after serving
anls at the rate or J3 per train mile ! a, term and that the prohibition law U
for the entire service and this order rot responsible for the increase in
was not complied with The roads court business were some of the state
were held to be in contempt by the j ments made tl is morning by Cot-nty
commission and the Southern Pacific I Attorney John F Ro 3 who s spend-
fined $l.o00 and the Ariz jna Eastern ' mg a few days in Douglas.
Mr Poss says that since the prohi-
b tion law went into tff-ct that 00 meu
convicted of bootlegging have actually
S-'00. The recent suit in the si.pet.oi j
court was instituted to recover ju g
raent.
The question that was raised during ssrved sentences in Cochise county by
the hearing was whether or not it was i wirking on the roads. Some of these
ah interstate matter as contended by , are ,,u working on the roads and they
the railroad or an intrastate arair
which was the view of the commission.
The discriminating phase of the mat
make excellent workmen. Mr."Ross
declares
ter, the road explained wa in noting a carrier under special contract while
difference between a circus and a car J the railoads pal IMi a tariff, the rates
nival cempany. The carnival com-j of which ore filed wiih the state an!
pany protested that the Sells riottr (interstate commissions to cner the
circus was transported as a private! transportation of carnivals.
.
m
B
; - '
Tf
"-
l?I Jt.
j6A&Jiiui tile.4 .
