p ^ Cloudy and warmer tonight and to- ^ , a A A ^ ?^i?? iFVMJ fo ffpWW
| morrow, probably moderate to fresh I RjU \\* *f/, * ^ Hottt"
I Temperature for J I I I II II I H I I I I -\ H Uagg ^ ?mmmmmm?mmmmmmm?mm?mm
? today; lowest! at'? a.m. today. 1/ I I ^ I I ^L v I I I I I I ^1 I ^L I H ^ ,
I report on page
CLOSING NEW YORK STOCKS PAGE 21. 1MB. Dally Average. TWMTj Saaday, B8JA
_
~ *
No. 29,525. WASHINGTON, D. C., THURSDAY, DECEMBER 7, 1916.-TWENTY-SIX PAGES. ONE CENT.
LLOYD GEORGE, NEW
BRITISH PREMIER, IS
SELECTING CABINET
*
f London Now Is Chiefly Interested
in Personnel of
New Ministry.
* > ny\n na n<rw a ttiti inr
LABUH PAH IT A I 111UUt
STILL REMAINS IN DOUBT
8uppert of Many Liberals and Unionists
in Commons Is Already
Assured.
Uy tiif. AsjoylatM Pn>M.
LONDON, December 7. -4:40 p.m.?According
to the Central News, the labor
party has decided to accept the invitation
to be represented in the new goveminent.
LONDON, December 7.?The king ini
vited David Lloyd George to form a ministry,
and Mr. Lloyd George has consented
to act in co-operation with Andrew
Bonar Law.
It having been decided definitely that
Lloyd George will undertake the forma- j
tion of a ministry, political circles to- !
day were interested chiefly in the per- j
sonnel of the new cabinet and the pros- j
pects of the new premier for getting
together a combination that will have
the support of a majority in the house
of commons.
Few, if any, of the liberal members
of Mr. Asouith's cabinet are likely to
accept office under Mr. Lloyd George,
and some of the unionist members, like
J. Austen Chamberlain and Lord Robert
Cecil, are likely to stand aside.
However, it is assumed that at the
conference at Buckingham Palace they
assured the new premier of their ben?>VAlont
riAiilralit v thus makinir his
task much simpler.
Make Plea to Liberals.
Provincial liberal newspapers like the
Manchester Guardian and the Liverpool
Post make a plea to the liberals to
give the government a fair chance, as
It is generally assumed that it is the
embodiment of British determination to
win the war. According to one estimate
Mr. Lloyd George can rely on the
support of virtually all the unionist
members and of seventy liberals and
hopes to obtain the backing of the labor
members, who will come to a final
decision at a meeting today. It is also
* represented that Mr. Lloyd George believes
he will be able to offer conces?
sfons to the nationalists which will
# bring them into line.
As far as the cabinet is concerned,
the new premier has a nucleus in A.
Bonar Law, Lord Derby, Lord Curxon.
b*ir Frederick E. Smith and Sir Ed*ard
Carson, while Viscount Reading, the
lord chief justice, is likely to join the
ministry.
Mr. David Lloyd George, the new
prime minister, has opened negotiations !
with the labor party with a view to ;
securing us support ana co-operauon.
A meeting of the party was held this
morning, at which regret was expressed
k at the resignation of Mr. Asquith as
^ premier. It v as decided, however, to
support any government pledged vigorously
to prosecute the war and in
which labor was adequately repre- j
sented.
The opinion is expressed that not less
than three labor members will be included
in the cabinet. The labor members
have been Invited to meet Mr.
Lloyd George at the war office to discuss
the matter.
Offered Responsible Post.
The Central News says Mr. Lloyd
G?6rge has offered the labor party two
seats in the cabinet, one representative in
the war council and three undersecretaryships.
and that the offer is under consideration.
Yesterday afternoon the king iniitated
negotiations in the hope of composing the
differences among the members of the
Asquith administration. Mr. Asquith and
ail the other members being summoned to
% Buckingham Palace. Mr. Lloyd George
already was there. A J. Balfour. Arthur
Henderson and Mr. Bonar Law soon arrived.
They and.other members had been
? in conference with the king for some time
^ before Mr. Asquith. on receiving an intiB
mat ion that his presence was required,
hurri s.lV left to join them.
Tht conference at Buckingham Palace
e.?ded at 4:30 o'clock, after which
Mr. Aftqu:t*n returned to his official resident*.
where he was visited by several
of i.* colleagues in the late governme??*.
Mr Liovd George w.:? n
cor; "ttr-.tion with some of his support- '
ers.
Speaking at a public mutiny. Lord |
I?erby threw further light on the cause
of the political crisis. He said it became
apparent, especially in the matter
of man power, that no serious grip J
was being maintained by the govern- i
?-)* ! on th.' pns I1"" H'h'rh ex^l-'.l.
What w??< required, he said, was a
vrr.all oomn-Itiec. which could come to j
si decision quickly on any question ar:d !
make the department concerned carry
out the decisions arrived at. Unless
that were done there would be great
dancer that the plans of the general ;
s'aff might fail in the coming year. For I
this reason. Lord I?erby said, Ije asso- i
f';-ted himself with the proposals of
Mr Lloyd George, which provided that
the war committee should consider all
real questions iri regard to the war,
?*orstituting, ir- fact, a war cabinet. Its
duties would be to consider carefully
^ every possible proposal, and. looking
forward, anticipate what the policy
r: uld he. Having adopted a policy, he
a- id. th" committee would stick to it
^ and see it. through.
It was proposed further that the
premier should be required to attend
all meetings and should have power to
jVeto proposals of the committee.
' The difficulty arose over the composition
of this committee.
Earlier Decision in War
Is Predicted by Germans,
Owing to Asquith's Step
By thf Afc*ocl*ted Pr*-a*.
AMSTERDAM, via London, December
7.?The resignation of Premier Asquith
clears the situation, according to the
Koelnlsche Zeitung. Commenting on
the English political crisis the paper
ays:
"The enemy's last forces will now be
brought into the field and when they,
like the others, have hurled themselves
vainly agalngt the strength of Germany
we shall find England ready for
an honest peace."
% "The Cologne VoUcs Zeltung says that
v the Germans can view political events
in England with complete composure.
The leading man." it says, "in. the most
powerful of the enemy countries confirms
by his resignation the failure of
the war policy hitherto followed by the
entente. If tae strong men in England
now come Into power this can only
J please us for R gives the hope that a
r decision will come all the earlier."
AU1H0RITY IS GIVEN
FOR MORE TRACKS
Extensions to Be Allowed
Principally on 18th and
19th Streets.
RELIEVE CAR CONGESTION
For the purpose of affording additional
transportation facilities to the
government buildings now built and in
pmirca nnnotrnntlnn nnlliVi /if Pnn n -
sylvania avenue and west of 17th street,
and also of relieving street car congestion
at 15th street and New York
avenue, the public utilities commission
today authorized the Capital Traction
Company to make important connections
and extensions to its lines, principally
along 18th and 19th streets south
of Pennsylvania avenue.
The improvement was suggested by
the company, and recently considered
at a public hearing conducted by the
commission. The order issued today
directs that the work be finished by
October 1, next. According to J. H.
Hanna, vice president of the company,
an order for materials will be placed
at once and the work expedited In
every way possible.
Construction of New Tracks.
The company is directed to construct a
single-track line on 19th street between
Pennsylvania avenue and Virginia avenue, J
a single-track line on Virginia avenue be- <
tween 18th and 19th streets and a single- 1
track line on 18th street between Virginia
I avenue and F street northwest, and in- 1
stall the necessary special work at the ^
intersection of Pennsylvania avenue and
| 19th street, at 19th and F streets and at '
18th and F streets to permit cars coming
I west on existing tracks on Pennsylvania i
| avenue to operate south on 19th street to x
F street thence either east on F street on <
existing tracks or south on 19th street to <
Virginia avenue, east on Virginia avenue ^
to 18th street and returning north on 18th t
, street to F street, and thence east on ex- ,
; isting tracks.
To Believe Congestion. j
An important feature of the order is
| that the company install the necessary !
additional special work at the intersection
of 15th street and New York ave- 1
nue to provide a double-track connec- *
tion between the present tracks of the
14th street line on New York avenue
and the present tracks on Pennsylvania
I nvenue west of 15th street.
With this connection installed the ,
company will divert a large amount of
the traffic that now goes over the 15th <
street tracks by operating 14th street j
cars west over Pennsylvania avenue to
furnish the service over the new extensions.
It is believed that this will
materially reduce the congestion of 1
traffle at 15th street and New York <
avenue. The improvement will cost i
the company in the neighborhood of i
$100,000. 1
LULA WHITING NAMED
IN TWO MARITAL SUITS |
? 1
i
First Husband Sues for Divorce, ]
While Second Wants Marriage
Annulled.
Lula Whiting has the uniqtie distinction
of being named defendant in two
suits filed today to dissolve two alleged
marriage relations. Foster I). Parker
brought suit against her to annul
a marriage ceremony performed in
Alexandria September 17. 1014. They
lived together until June last, he avers,
when the defendant left him. He has
since learned, he asserts, that she had
a husband living at the time of his
alleged marriage from whom she was
not divorced.
i nuiua c?. iiiidiH, me in at imsuanu, j
jalso brought suit today for an abso- t
| lue divorce, naming Foster D. Par- *
j ker. theh 'platntlff in the other suit.
1 as corespondent. Whiting nays he t
married the defendant in Washington }
November L8,. l?9i>, and avers she de- *
serted him in April, 1903. *
Attorney Selig C. Brez appears for 1
both "husbands." i*
REPORT THAT BANDITS ;
KILLED U.S. MINING MAN Ij
Hanging of Howard Gray at Parrall ! J
Announced, But Statement Is Sub- j \
sequently Discounted. j
_ J
| Kij PASO, Tex., December T.?Howard
! Gray, an An^rlcan mining man at Par- |
! rai. Chihuahua, was killed by Villa
i bandits when they entered the town
November 5, according to a telegram
j received today by the Alvarado Mining 1
| and Milling Company.
A messenger who arrived from Par- f
1 rai shortly after the telegram was <
I made public said Gray was hanged by <
j order of Villa. j
The telegram to the mining compafly >
i said all other Americans were safe 1
and that American property was not <
harmed.
Carranza Troops Betake Parral. :
Carranza troops have ceg&ined pos- s
session of Parral, according to State 1
Department advices from El Paso,
which say all Americans who were in j \
the city while it was held by Villa's j"
Iiorc?!" arc mxir.
Doubts that Villa himself was in
i Chihuahua when the city was taken
from the Carranza forces were reported
to have been raised by the story
of a deserter from Villa's band, who
says the bandit chief directed the flght:
ing by telegraph from Bustillos' ranch,
1 near Chihuahua. His story was forwarded
to the War Department today by the
: American military authorities at El
Paso.
Good Roads Advocate Diet.
SPRINGFIELD, Ohio. December 7.?
Jesse Taylor, director general of the
National Highways Association of
Washington, D. C., and president of the
Ohio Good Roads Federation, died at
his home at Jamestown, Ohio, near
here, early today from Bright's disease.
Although born in Ohio, Mr. Taylor at
onetime held the offices of prosecuting
attorney and probate judge at Garden
City# Kan. He was one of the best
known good roads advocates in the
country. A
STfTflRSTIAFl"
Of SALARIES BILL
House Leaders Work on Plan
to Increase United States
Clerks' Pay.
MR. KITCHIN FAVpRS RAISE
Congressional policies toward a hori
Zi\J li I cl I lllUCrt^C Ul Midi IW dliu WilgM
for government and District of Columbia
employes began to take definite
shape today. tVork on the legislative,
executive and judicial appropriation
bill progressed to a point where the
first draft of the final bill was started
and hearings on the District bill were
continued, so that a report on that allimportant
local measure may be expected
within a few days.
President H. H. McLarin, president of
the Federal Employes' Union, accompanied
by a representative committee
of government and District employes,
discussed the salary situation with Majority
Leader Kitchin.
House leaders got together this afternoon
to discuss a general plan for
advancing wages so that a horizontal
increase would be effected to include
employes of all branches of the government.
Employes' Committee Encouraged.
The committee of employes was considerably
cheered after the conference
ivlth Representative Kitchin, majority
leader. He told them he favored better
salaries for employes, but indicated that
:here are many members of the House
who do not believe in a civil pension
ist, unless it be on a contributory plan:
"1 want to see the government pay
ts employes enough money so they
nay put aside something for old age,
>r for the 'rainy day'," said Mr Kitchin.
3n the other hand Mr. Kitchin advised
:he employes' committee not to ask for
:oo much at once, for practical rea10ns.
One of these reasons is that often
beard on the floor of the house?that
'egardless of the merits of the statenent,
many persons not in the government
service have the impression the
government clerks are a favored class
already, and for that reason moves to
increase governmental pay and to pro
viae civil pension iisib are unpopular
n certain quarters.
Members of the Committee.
The committee which waited on Mr.
Kitchin was composed of II. H. McLarfn,
Jere Connolly, John S. Beach,
Owen P. Kellar, Miss Florence EtherIdge,
Lillian Keathley, Joseph H. Hurley
and E. J. Newmyer.
The committee is anxious to obtain a
horizontal increase for all government
employes, including those in the postal
service and the Agricultural Department.
They have not set any definite
percentage of increase, fcuVare willing
to talk over this part of their claims
with the chairmen of the committees in
charge of the bills.
In the meantime various leaders In
the House are holding almost hourly
zonference* in an informal way, trying
to reach a definite conclusion as to the
scope of the increases. Whether the
maximum salaries to be raised should
be in the eighteen-hundred-dollar class
ar lower is one of the questions.
Plan of RepreJfentative Sabath.
While the House appropriations committee
worked today along a definite
>lan for an Increase in the salaries and
wages of government clerks, half a
iozen other schemes for advances were
lrged by individuals. Among these was
me by Representative Sabath of Illinois,
who Introduced a bill giving
graded increases to government em
>loyes under $i,8?jo. Under the Sabath
:>lan every employe receiving: $1,200
>r lees would be given an increase of
!5 per cent; employes receiving front
11,200 to $1,500, 20 per cent, and em>loyes
receiving from $1,500 to $1,800,
.0 per cent. The legislation includes
hose working on a per diem basis and
mployes of the Senate arid House of
teprese nta t i ves.
Representative Sabath, In speaking of
he bill today, said: "I hear some members
object because they feel a general
ncrease would benefit many who are
ealiy not entitled to it. J have
nade some investigation of this
lubjcct and I know that 95 per cent
>f those who wili be helped bv this
eglslation are faithful and efficient
rmployes. There may be some who are
liones "and not worth $3 a day, but I
vould not retard beneficial legislation
or the great majority because of these
:c:\v. I did not include those above
>1,800 because their problem it; meetng
the advancing cost of living is not
to hard and in some cases they ore
pets' and secure advances through iniuenee.
What I want to help is the
nasses. They feel these high prices
nost. They need the higher salary
nost."
FRENCH GUNBOAT SUNK;
STEAMERS TORPEDOED
Jy the AMKK-iated l'reg#.
LONDON. December 7.?The French
gunboat Surprise has been sunk by
Jerman submarines at Funchal, Maleira,
according to an announcement
nade by the Portuguese minister of
narine in a wireless dispatch received
icre from Lisbon. Thirty-four of the
;rew of the gunboat perished.
Lloyds reports the sinking by subma-ine
the Danish steamship Nexos,
1,013 tons gross, and of the Spanish
?... ?.oV, ;>? tnlio Honi t A The />paivii ftf
ticamoioK ?<" ? ?v?.vv. ? ?aoth
vessels were landed.
Lloyds reports that the Greek steamsr
Fofo, 2,615 tons, has been torpedoed,
rhe crew Avas saved.
DAY IN CONGRESS.
Seutet
Met at noon.
Resumed debate on corrupt
practices bill.
Discussed Hoke Smith bill for
retirement qt feyleral judges who
reach seventy years of age.
William J. Bryan opposed exclusive
federal regulation of railroads
before Joint railroad investigating
committee.
Hornet
Met at noon.
Secretary Baker advocated diversion
of waters to American
side of Niagara Falls before foreign
affairs committee.
Consideration of omnibus fish
hatcheries bill resumed;
! . !
1 Shoulj
HAVE GON
into Tmi
THINK BOTH PARTIES ^
WILL HAVE "DRY" FIGHT:
I
1
Senators Say Effort Will Be Made to !
I
Get Planks Adopted by Na- F
^tjpnal Conventions.
A great fight will bo made to place in
the next national democratic and repuh- j
lican platforms a prohibition plank, 1
in tne opinion or senators or ootn parties : |
at the Capitol today, who commented |
upon the appeal of William Jennings j
Bryan to the democratic party to adopt j
nation-wide prohibition as one of the ;
measures to be enacted into law. 11
Only the passage during the next four j ^
years of a joint resolution by Congress j%
for a constitutional amendment for na- I Cl
j tional prohibition and its submission to j ^
; the st.ites for ratification can prevent j
! the effort being made to have both parties ; f<
take up the fight for prohibition, they j11
said.
Senator Sheppard of Texas, leader of j o
the prohibition forces in the Senate, ex- a
pressed his gratifications at the stand
taken by Mr. Bryan. He favored a j
prohibition plank for the party. a>
' d
Senator Xenyon Favors Plank. j
Senator Kenyon of a strong I p:
advocate of prohibition on the repub- j
lican side of the chamber, said that he j 0
believed, with the growing strength of J v
the prohibition sentiment in the coun- ! t]
try, neither party could afford not to
put a prohibition plank in its platform j t?
if the other adopted one. j r<
"If Mr. Bryan runs for President on i
the democratic ticket with prohibition J
in his platform," said Senator Kenyon, j
I "the republicans could not hold the re- j ^
j publican party together in opposition; f<
i to him." j ^
I Senator Kern of Indiana, democratic 1
I leader, said that if he owned any stock j
' in a brewery or distillery he would j f<
j sell it. ir: hurry. He added, however, i tl
; that he did not think that a majority!
! of the democratic party would favor
I imposing prohibition upon a state in t
| which the public sentiment did not de- I t
i mand prohibition. t
j "Bryan Strong on Moral Issue." ' I w
: Senator Simmons of North Carolina, I
j orie of the most influential democrats I
; in the body, was unwilling at this time f
j to say what course would he followed o
| by the democratic parly in regard to j ri
Mr. Bryan's appeal. '
"He made a great speech,"' said Mr. ' 11
Simmons. "No one can equal Mr. Bryan j t.
I when he discusses a moral issue. Un- o
; u??*s some action is taken in the next!
: four years looking toward national j
j i, ?,i:io i.on the matter will be a live h
issue at the next national conventions." | r>
There were others, however, among L
the democratic senators who, while
I they did not care to be quoted, stated xv
Ituat they did not believe that national h
j prohibition could be enforced, and" that ; n
?ut?r?o?-te**s were aligning them-i
selves with the "speakeasies." They
\s i e opposed to having the democratic
party take up national prohibition as
an issue. u
~ * i v
Red Hats Bestowed on Cardinals. 1 u
ROME, December 7, 10:10 a.m.?Pope tl
Benedict held a public consistory to- tl
day in the hall of beaUtifications, above I "Y
the Atrium of St. Peter's, in the pres- ! c!
ence of several thousand persons. The w
ten cardinals created Monday and also c
Cardinal Freuhwirth and Cardinal
Soapinelli, who were created cardinals s,
in 1914, entered the hall, after which t.
the pontifical procession went in, bear- s'
ing the portable throne. The Pope n
blessed the kneeling assemblage. After c,
the 1'ope had imposed the red hat on
the new cardinals he returned to his n
apartments, while the sacred college r,
sang the "Te Deum" in the Sistine
Chapel. d
% v.
Former Broker Indicted for Harder. ?
OSSIPB. N. H.. December 7. Fred- 1tl
erlck L. Small, formerly a Boston j |?(
broker, waa indicted today'for murder j f,
by the grand Jury which Investigated i
the death of his *-lfe. Mrs. Arlene C. v
Small, who was strangled, shot and. v
beaten td death in her home here, which ' d
was burnad in an attempt to conceal tl
the crimejpn September 28 laBt. b
lUi^ |
UPlffl
OF LIVING COST ON
'resident and Other Government
Officials faking Com- j
prehensive Investigation.
.EGISLATION MAY ENSUEj
President Wilson and many other of- J
cials of the government have begun j
rork on the most comprehensive instigation
of the increase in the living j
[>st which has even been undertaken In j
ne United States.
The program still is in process of ;
armation, but the indications are that >
te inquiry will take the following form: j
1. Determination of the actual causes'
f the rise in the prices of foodstuffs j
nd coal?whether these increases have j
een due to natural economic laws, to j
ction of individual dealers and pro- j
ucers in advancing prices, or to agree-j
lents among groups of dealers and j
rod ucers. j
2. Possibility of vigorous prosecution i
f persons or firms, if any, who have j
iolated laws and thus contributed to )
lie upward trend of prices.
3. Possible enactment of legislation
remedy the situation and prevent its
incurrence.
Fifty Investigators at Work.
Department of Justice officials have
eld conferences with members of the
ideral trade commission and District
ttorney Anderson of Boston, In charge
f the department's investigation to j
>rmulate a definite plan of conducting!
ie nation-wide inquiry j
About fifty picked investigators of!
he department's bureau of investigaion
are reported to be at work
hroughout the country gathering data
/hich will determine the Attorney
leneral's course of action.
The interstate commerce commission
robably will be called upon to aid by
urnishing data relative to shipments
f foodstuffs, and Mr. Anderson will
onfer with commission officials before
is departure. Grand jury investigaion
a4 New York or Chicago or both
t the reasons for raising prices are
aid to be still under consideration.
From President Wilson down, officials
ave begun to cope in earnest with- the 1
roblems presented by the situation.
he President has tanen unuer consul- i
ration preliminary reports, which. I
ith others yet to come, will form the I
asis for recommendations he may
lake to Congress.
May Probe Storage Plants.
Department of Justice officials are
nderstood to he considering the adisability
of investigating such orgaulatlons
as the Chicago Board of Trade,
le Chicago Butter and Egg Exchange,
tie Elgin Board of Tpade and the New
ork produce, sugar and coffee exhanges,
with a view to ascertaining by
hat practices the market values of
ertaln foodstuffs dealt in by the bodies
rc determined.
An inquiry into the amount of foodtuffs
held in all the cold-storage es- ,
rblishments of the country, and postbly
as to the volume of grain stored
i elevators also, is said to be under
onsideratlon.
Complaints have reached the departlent
that coal prices were advanced '
ecently, because, in large measure, of
he activities of certain Independent
ealers, not heretofore in the business,
ho are reported to have contracted
'Ith the chief coal companies for vir- 1
ually their entire unsold output for
rte winter. It was charged that these
ealers, scenting fat profits, had tried 1
j corner the available supply and thus
arced up prices.
These and other complaints under In- t
estlgation will be considered with a <
lew of prosecution, if warranted, un- i
er federal laws which require that i
lie supplies In question must have* 1
een in or for interstate commerce. M
?Jm
a mmd
f?
W.J. BRYAN GIVESlI
OF MY PROBLEM
Opposes Centralization in Pederal
Government of Power Over Interstate
Transportation.
William J. Bryan appeared today before
the joint congressional committee
investigating transportation problems
and opposed centralisation of power in
the Federal government in connection
with railroad suggestions for Federal
incorporation and the proposal to lessen
the power of state railroad commissions
by lodging greater power of
icgumuwii in IHO unci male uuiuiiicrue
commission.
Gives Reasons for Opposition.
i
Mr. Bryan declared his opposition was
based on the belief that to transfer
regulatory power to Washington wcvld
impose an impossible burden on the
authorities here, inject a tremendous
political force into national affairs
which would enter into elections to
Congress and would be a most decided
step in centralization of government.
As a counter proposal Mr. Bryan suggested
the existing law be amended to
give the national government full
power to regulate railroads and atill
permit the states to exercise their regulatory
powers.
Speaking of government ownership,
Mr. Bryan said he had for a number
of years believed it inevitable and
"only because the railroads will never
consent to effective regulation."
Favors Federal Supervision.
He spoke for federal supervision of
security issues, and believed there
should be legislation to insure dividends
sufficient to keep stocks at par
and provide a surplus fund for lean
years. Before such a measure was
passed, however, he said, capitalization
should be reduced "to an honest basis
where it repreents the actual physical
property.'* In some financial operations.
Mr. Bryan said, the railroads had
been guilty of things "discreditable to
an ordinary highway robber."
Mr. Bryan was cross-examined briefly
by members of the committee, and
will return later for further examination.
DISTRICT PROHIBITION
FIRST AIM OF LEADER??
The first effort of prohibition leaders
In Congress at this session is to be
directed toward enactment of the bill j
to abolish liquor in the District of Co- |
lumbia. 'William J. Bryan's declara- j
tion for national prohibition and his
presence in Washington have served
to arouse interest in the subject, and
the initial move will be made in the
Senate, where Senator Morris Sheppard
of Texas plans to push the District
prohibition bill in the near future. He
Will be aided by Senator Kenyon of
Iowa, who will champion the measure
from the republican side.
HEBE FOB SUFFBAGE LOBBY.
Mrs. William Kent and Hiss Stevens
Arrive From California.
The first meeting of the judiciary
committee of the House of Representatives
today was marked by the arrival j
in Washington from California of Jfiss
Doris Stevens, national organization
chairman of the Congressional Union
tor Woman Suffrage, and of Mrs. William
Kent, wife of Representative Kent
Both will assist In the lobby work to
be carried on by the Congressional
Union as part of Its drive upon Congress
for a federal suffrage amendment.
Miss Maud Younger, who followed
the doings of the judiciary committee
so closely at the last session that she
came to be. known by the members as
the "twenty-second member of the committee,"
was" on hand at the Capitol
this morning when the' committee m.et
(or its initial meeting of the session.
'f-2
ARABIA TRANSPORT,
BERLMM
Says British Steamer Was
Warship and Received
Treatment of One.
^rDliim mriTr mnr ntini 11
ut-nnriHiM nu I c iyimuc ruDLiv
Germany in a note made public by th
State Department today contends tha
the British steamer Arabia, sunk 1
the Mediterranean November 6. was i
reality "a transport ship for troops i
the service of the British governmen
which is to be considered as an aux
iliary warship, according to interna
tional law. and can therefore be treat
ed like a warship."
The note follows:
"The undersigned has the honor t
inform Mr. Grew, charge d'affaires o
the United States of America, in repl
to the note of the 21st ultimo, foreig
office number 14401. that the investiga
tion conducted by the German govern
ment concerning the sinking of th
British steamer Arabia has led to th
following results:
"On the morning of November 6
German submarine encountered a larg
steamer coming from the Cerig
straits, 100 nautical miles west of th
Island of Cerigo. The steamer wa
painted black and had black super
structures and not, as is otherwise th
case with the P. and O. line super
structures, a light color; the steamei
which was identical with the Arabh
was not traveling on the route regu
larly used by the passenger steamer
between Port Said and Malta, as i
made plain on the inclosed man. bu
was taking a zigzag coursrt toward th
west 120 nautical miles north of tha
route; this course, on which the sub
marine had passed three similar steam
ers at the same 4spot on the sam
morning, leads from the Aegean i
Malta, so that the Arabia was movini
on the transport route Cerigo-MalU
used solely for war purposes accordini
to the experiences until now.
No Women and Children Seen.
The commander of the submarin
further ascertained that there wer
large batches of Chinese and other col
ored persons in their national costume
on board the steamer; he considerei
them to be workmen soldiers, such a
are used in great numbers behind th
front by the enemies of Germany; ii
spite of the clear weather and carefu
observation he did not perceive an
women and children.
"In these circumstances the com
mander of the submarine was convincethat
in the case of this steamer he wa
concerned with a transport ship fo
troops in the service of the Britls!
government, which is to be considere
as an auxiliary warship, according t
international law, and can therefore b
treated like a warship. He accordlngl
considered himself Justified in attack
ing the steamier without delay, an
sank it.
"Should the American govern men
gltfe the official dfcta showing that th
Arabia was at the time of the torpe
doing an ordinary passenger ste&me
the action of the commander would no
have been in accordance with the In
struetions given hiin, since these fn
structions are now, as before, in agree
ment with the assurances of the Ger
man note of Ma}', 1916. This woul<
then be a case of a regrettable mistake
from which the German governmen
would promptly draw the appropriat
consequences.
"The undersigned requests the charge
d'affaires to bring; the above to th<
knowledge of the American govern
ment, and avails himself.
(Signed) "ZIMMERMAN."
COMMITTEES HEARD ON
NAVY YARD WAGE SCALE
Action on Schedule for Calendai
Year of 1917 to Be Announced
Before End of Month.
i Assistant Secretary Roosevelt thi
afternoon gave a hearing to commit
tees representing the various classe
I of labor employed at the Washingtoi
j navy yard in reference to the schedul
J of wages for the calendar year 191
j recommended by the regular nava
wage board and now awaiting fina
action by the Navy department.
The 1917 scale recommended shows ;
general increase in nearly every branc]
of trade represented at the yard a
compared with the existing scale o
! wages, following the increases made ii
pri vate establishments where compari
j sons are possible in the general viclu
; ity, due to increased business on ac
I count of the European war.
I Similar increases have been recom
mended at all the other ' navy yardi
! and are understood to be generally
satisfactory to the employes, thougl
there are instances at each yard when
the labor committees have suggested
I changes in the schedules.
The action of the Navy Departmen
i on the wage scales for 1917 will b<
[announced before the end of thii
month. Committees representing tin
employes at the naval proving ground!
at Indian Head. Md., will be heard b?
Aactotonr Secretary Roosevelt Decern
ber ID.
SAYS GERMANY WILL NOT
3E INFLUENCED BY U. S,
LONDON, December 7.?A wireless
dispatch, received here from Bern, says
"The Cologne Gazette declares thai
In her submarine warfare Germany wil
be guided by her own interests, and
will not allow herself to be influenced
by American threats or suggestions.
"The Frankfurter Zeitung warns Germans
against expecting double ration*
as a result of the invasion of Rumania
It says the Russo-Rumanians may save
their harvests and granaries, which a c
situated mainly on tha loner Danube
in territory which has not been invaded."
President Sends Sympathy Message.
NEW YORK. December 7.?A telegram
has been received from President
Wilson by George C. Boldt, Jr., extending
sympathy because of the death yesterday
of Mr. Boldt, sr., proprietor ol
the Waldorf-Astoria Hotel. The message
read:
"May 'I not express my deepest and
sincerest sympathy to yon In youi
great bereavement. In the death of Mr.
Roldt the community' has lost a mac
of singular genius and usefulness."
'' '
GERMANS SWEEP ON
! AFTER HAVING TAKEN
. DIIMAMIA'C PADITAI
> iiumnmn u um iihl
King Ferdinand's Forces Are
Retiring Along Whole
' Wallachia Front.
I 100,000 PRISONERS ARE
CAPTURED BY TEUTONS
n
t.
| Attempt Evidently Hade by Rumanians
to Move Whole Force
to Moldavia.
O _
f
y With Bucharest lost to them the Rutl
manians are retiring all along the line
_ in the province of Wallachia, fighting
_ rearguard actions as they retreat.
e The main point of interest in what
e remains of this campaign is the fate of
the Rumanian armies, and apparently
a there has been no wholesale bag of
e prisoners as yet, at least, by Field
? Marshal von Mackens^n's troops, al8
though Berlin records the capture of
- more than 9,000 men yesterday.
c i'etrograd f| statement announcing- '
r the evacuation of Bucharest and the
i, retirement of the Rumanians who were
holding: off ^he Danube army south of
g the capital probably indicates that an
t attempt was made to move virtually
e the entire Rumanian force In the
Bucharest region northeastward to.
ward Moldavia, before the entrance of
e the Teutonic troops into the capital,
? What measure of success has been at*
? tained in this operation has not yet de'
veloped. The 9th German Army is
* pressing: eastward north of Bucharest
at an apparently rapid rate, its main
line of advance probably being along
the railway line to Buseu from
e Polechti. The capture of the last-named
town, an important railway Junction
e point in the center of the Rumanian
- oil region, was effected yesterday, the
s same day Bucharest was taken,
d German opinion is expressed to the
effect that the Rumanians have decided
to abandon all of Wallachia, the main
e portion of the Rumanian kingdom, and
n retire to Moldavia, their northeastern
province, where their front would be
would be in close touch with the
_ Russians.
d The total captures of Rumanians by
s the forces of the central powers since
r the beginning of the war are reported
h to have been 100,000 men.
I Campino is Captured .
> Ipy German Invaders;
Rumanians Fall Back
it
By the Associated Press. f
~ BERLIN, December 7, by wireless to
t Sayville.?The defeated Rumanians are
- retreating along the whole fronlr the
" war office announces. The Teutonic
_ troops have captured Campino, on the
3 railroad between Kronstadt and
e Ploechti.
e In yesterday's lighting more tbau
9,000 Rumanians were captured.
e In addition to the capture of Campino,
8 the statement recounts the taking of
Ploechti, announced last evening, with
the capture of i ucharest, and also of
J the important town 01 Mnaia, preI
viously reported in Teutonic i.ands. Ths
statement reads:
"Front of Archduke Joseph: In the
wooded Carpathians and on the front
1 of the Moldavian mountains there was
a temporary increase in artillery fire
and advance skirmishes, from > kich
there developed Russian attacks north
" of Dona tVatra, and in the Trotus valley.
These were repulsed.
Credit to von Mackensen.
"Army sroup of Field Marshal von
Mackensen: Notable successes yester8
day crowned the efforts and the engagements
in which, in command of
s Field Marshal von Mackensen, the
n troops of the 9th and the Danube are
mies under clear-sighted leadership
7 defeated the Rumanian enemy and the
1 Russian reinforcements that had been
I summoned to it. by means of speedy
strokes. The commander and the troops
a received the reward of their victory?
Bucharest, the capital of the country,
II which is now the latest victim of the
s entente policy; together with PloecliLi,
f . Campino and SinaiaJ which are itt our possession.
1 "Tne defeated enemy is retreating
- eastward along the entire front. Cour_
ageous fighting spirit and a tenacious
will for victory caused the troops that
attacked and conquered to respond to
all the efforts asked of them. Iir add<
tion to the German main forces. Bravo
Austro-Hungarian, Bulgarian and
Turkish troops did splendid work.
f "The 9th army reports the taking
a yesterday of 106 officers and 9,100 men
B as prisoners.
~ "The operations and engagements are
" proceeding."
I Sorrow and Mortification
I Voiced in Paris Over
5 ?
tne i-aii or bucnaresi
By the Assoclsted Press.
PARIS. December 7.?The news of the
fall of Bucharest was received here
with sorrow and mortification, although
it had been regarded as inevitable
1 since the battle of the Argechu was
lost.
' "We understand perfectly." says the
Petit Journal, "what the Rumanians
' are suffering, for we. too, have snf1
fered the sorrows of invasion. We as'
aociate ourselves all the more with
1 their grief since we realise with bitter.1
ness of spirit that we are partly re'
I sponsible for the catastrophe, which
! I was not due entirely to the military
abilities of the enemy's leaders."
\ All of the newspapers say that the
event must be a lesson to the allies
which ought to spur them on to mora
rapid and energetic action, and, above
all. to the organized and effective use
of their common resources. The commentators,
'while generally gloomy,
make the point- that the Rumanians,
- having abandoned Bucharest, have now
L a much shorter line which thelr'armies,
. i having emerged intact from the claws
of the Oerman enveloping movement,
have a good chance of holding until the
allies come to their relief. But It is
agreed that with the fall of Ploechti
there appears no probability of saving
the oilfields, which is considered the
1 worst feature of the situation.
Some consolation is derived from
. Swiss dispatches, which report that. A
i notwithstanding the Herman, victories ^
In Rumania, the German hunqnd-mark
" N
'
