1 .T"
THE WEATHER FORECAST; '
Fair to-daj; to-raorrow, increasing
cloudineti and warmer; rain later.
Highest temptratvra vtatarday, 49; lowttt, 41.
Detailed weather, mail and marine reports on pan li.
IT SHINES FOPv' ALL
VOL. LXXXIV. NO. 98.
NEW YORK, THURSDAY, DECEMBER 7, 1916. CoptrloM, mi. by the Sun Prtntlng and PuUUhtng AuocM'Kt.
QNE CENT
In fMtot Xw Yefli. I
Jersey CUT sad New. I
RlMwhera
TWO t'KNTS.
Stilt.
PRESIDENTSORE
MSANTI-STRIKE
PLAN WILL WIN
Lli Determined to Use All
Power He Can Over
Congress.
i dt V T.V A TtF.HN
PREDICT DEFEAT
Wilson Is Warned, but His
Altitude Is Against
Compromise.
TAKES FIRST STEPS
TO GET LEGISLATION
So Far No Measure Embody
ing the Proposals Is
Offered.
WasiiiKcrro.v, Dec. t. Evidence la
rapidly accumulating that the Presl
tat plan for a compulsory Investiga
tion of railroad labor troubles la to have
hard sledding In Congress. Neverthe
less the President la determined to put
tthe proposition through. Ills mind Is
made up about this, Juat as firmly as It
was In the cafe of the Adamson law.
According to his friends the Prcsl
itnt Is prepared to exercise all the
power he can command over Congress.
It was Intimated strongly to-day that
It would take more than the opposition
f the labor combination to cause him
to recede from his position or even to
... X. I nl 1.1.1.
would not obtain for tne country a se
curity from the conditions which men
aced it last summer.
If the labor leaders are counting on
tot support they gave the President In
the campaign to sway him In this mat
ter they are likely to be disappointed.
What adds Interest to the present
situation is that many members of the
President's party, some of whom as
sisted him In putting through the eight
nour law. are In disagreement with
him over this proposal to prevent by
law any hotly of men from taking con
ccrted action and quitting employment
Wore an Investigation' of the facts.
The President hns been advised already
by hla party leaders In Congress that
he cannot count on the passage of leg
islation that would accomplish this.
situation In k Haas.
President Wilson has been told that
the Influence of the four railroad broth
'thoodi In the House is almost certain
to be strong enough to defeat the meas
ure. The other features of the Presi
dent's railroad programta are pretty
mre of success. These will hava the
lomblned support 'of both Republicans
nd lemocrats. With respect to the
ompulsory Investigation plan, those in
the I're-ldent's confidence let It become
known that he Is absolutely confident he
ll! win.
The President took the first steps to-
y for the enactment of his programme
htn he summoned Itepresentatlre
Henry, chairman of the Commit! mi
Rules of tho House, to the White House
na lOMuesieu nim to smooth the way
tor It. Mr. Henry promised his coopera
tion. The President also talked with
Senator llollls. New Hampshire, regard
ing tho situation In the Senate.
With Ihls situation of vital Interest to
the country absorbing attention no bill
embodying the President's recommenda
tions, has made an appearance. There
a chance of much delay over any
that la ofrered. Representative Kltchln
'Id to-day that nono of the railroad
bills would be ready until after Christ
mas. Representative Ksch, Wisconsin,
announced that ho would demand public
hearings on any bill that Involved the
?o-called Canadian plan, which seems to
be the only one now In mind, Huch a
mtaiurc would consume much time.
Clayton Act Cited.
opponents of the President's plan nra
making a point of the Clavton act which
passed by tho Democrats. Henator
Hughes of New Jersey, who ordinarily
ldf with the President, said to-day
that In his opinion any plan such us the
l'reaMent apparently has In mind would
be taking away from labor the right to
(onierted action, which was expressly
then to It by that act.
Section 20 of the Clayton law forbids
Injunctions being imued to prohibit any
letfon or persons, whether acting singly
or In mncert. from ccaalng to perform
in, nn.i ... ' . . u... ... i p ii-i
... ui lauui. nciiiiii'i iiuftitm tie-
iarm he had personally fought hard to
t this exemption for labor and ha was
Wi in favor of now taking It away.
"My attitude." said Senator Iluahes.
"sill of courwo depend upon the plan
hat Ik offered, but so far no jilnn seema
to have been nrnnnaarl that wntilil tint tut
In direct conflict with the right given to
'nT under this act."
benator Hughea'a statement reflects
"' opinion of many, not only In the
IIoiik, Ma In the Kennte. White. rta.
Mbllrana In the main appear to be mora
favorable to placing this curb on the
"iiruaci brotherhood than do the Dem
"crais, ome are opposed to the oompul
"fr plan.
Penilnr Hhertnnn. Htlnnla mmA rtt
?rtr to enforce such a law thsre must
CI tienilltAa aituiih. eA. i-
. - m.wwi.ct. .v. - ,,n TlVMllllilt
"i law must nrnvlds Mr contemn! of
"m ir whatever tribunal makea the In- i
-""cat 'it If a Mrlke is undertaken ba
'rs ti,r Inveitlgatlnn la completed and
pill i ii,(. iirnaltles must be attached,
"will not such a law compel an am
'W)ee to remler service Involuntarily?
oii.!ci ir the President thinks ha can
"t nny Hich measure through Con
(rets. Kciiiitor Cummins, a member of the
fc"U Interstate Commerce Committee.
PRINCE MISKINOFF TO
BE CLEANER AND DYER
Current' Husband of Aimed
Crocker Gounuul, fcc, Go
liiff Into Trade.
Judging by th business certificate
filed In ths County Clerk's ofrtcetyMer
dir. Prince Alexandre Mlsklnoff, with
the prospect of a divorce frorrt Atnie
Crocker, &c. Mlsklnoff looming before
him. has derided to work for a llvlnr ai
a cleaner and dyer.
The document which the Trine wa
pleased to carry from his apartment. US
West fteventy-second street, revealed that
Alexander Stein of E06 Went IBIst street
Would Join with him In seeln that the
suits and furs of the society In which the
Prince waa conspicuous formerly were '
properly perfumed with naphtha. The)
firm wilt be known aa "The Unlveraal ,
".Minn ana uyers.
When word of this new undertaking
waa brought to John C. Oldmlaon, attor
ney for Prineeia MUklnoff, he said he
had not heard that tho Prime had de
cide to fo Into trade. It wai recalled,
however, that the Prince allowed ho wan
a man of enterprise durlna the divorce
suit when he ate a ham aandwlch at the
county Court House lunch counter,
where they'cost only n nickel aach.
Inquiry left no doubt that the Prince,
Immactilato always himself. Intends to
ace that others appear likewise.
BANKERS TAKE OVER
REMINGTONARMS CO.
MarcelliiH H. Dodge Virtually
Believed From Managing
900,000,000 Concern.
Marcellus. Itartte)' Dodge, son-in-law
of William Rockefeller and brother-in-law
of Percy Rockefeller, has been prac
tically relieved of the management of
hla H0.000.000 Remington Arms-Union
Metallic Cartridge Company It was
learned yesterday. A committee of bank
era, through whom Mr. Dodge borrowed
approximately $25,000,000 for the com
pany, has been organised to take the
management, leaving htm a nominal po
sition In the company which ha formed
last year to participate In a huge rifle
contract for the Ilrltlsb Government.
The committee consists of Samuel r.
Pryor, who has been associated with
the management of the company since
It waa formed; O. M. P. Murphy, treas
urer of the (luaranty Trust Company:
James H. Perkins, vice-president of the
Natlenal City Bank, and W. E. S. Oris
wold. Through the National City Rank
Ur. Dodge sokt laat February 115,000.
00 of two year S per cent notes. Later
the company placed f 10,000,000 of notes
through the same source. Both the
duaranty Trust Company and the Na
tional City Bank Interests were closely
associated In the formation of the com
pany, an well as the Mldvala Steel nnd
ordnance company, to wnicn air. uoage.
disposed of his Remington Arms Com- '
pany of Delaware for 120.000,000. I
Mr. Dodge still retains virtually all of:
his stock under the new management. '
Henry 8. Kimball, formerly president of i
the American Zinc, Iad and Smelting i
Company, has been elected president.!
Baruuel F. Pryor, formerly president of
the company, Is made chairman of the
managing committee, and C. 8. Hawley, '
formerly president of the Laconla Car J
Company, has become treasurer. Mr. I
Dodge is understood to have been ae-,
lected as chairman of the board of di
rectors, a position said to be purely
nominal In character.
Mr. Dodge organised the Remington1
Arms.tlnlon Metallic f .irtrlilr Comnnnv
through a merger of the nemlngton Arras
and Ammunition Company and tho Union
Metallic Cartridge Company. The com-
pany got part of a 3,400,000 rifle con-
tract irom tne iiriusn uovernmeni.:
The company, however, never got nnyjslon for cooperation and Were promised I
other
her contracts, and the management )
had been tied up.
Many thousands of rifles were rejected, i
Tin-.!., ah nn..A1l., .1,. nnmnntlnn
Ills account the corporation
to seek additional cnpltol I
', when it sold about 10.- J
th of notes to tho National!
i HI ,ij ui, iiim
was forced
laat summer,
000,000 worth ot notes to trto .National I
City Bank. iMtr ne ' companj n ong
Wlin me asiUTOie men mm uiuimia-B
Company and the Winchester Repeat
ing Arms Company, appealed to the
British Government tor a mouincntion
of the contracts so as to be Insured
against loss. About a month ago this
modification- was grauica.
WOHSH HOT IN FIGET DEAL.
. -
Pranaoters Dispel Intpresslau About
Misses Morgan and Marbary.
Miss Elisabeth Marbury last night
gave out' the following letter signed by
Tex nickard nnd Samuel McCracken,
boxing promoters, to dispel the Impres
ston thst she and Miss Anne Morgan
re taking any part whatever In the
efforts to get the French fighter. George
Carpentler, to this country tor a maicn:
"Havlne seen the unauthorised and
elnhnrata Use Of the
names or jiiss
Kllsabeth Marbury and Miss Anno Mor-
sn In connection with certain pending
country under our nianafffment. wf winh
. a MA1I.. thn tint nnlti rnnnan.
? ""Vha ..d le. or my to.
ladles have or may have. I inese anu oilier complaints under In
I? enternrlse arises from their cstlsjatUtn will be considered with n
to distribute to the war eliarl-1 vlew lo l"ecullon. If warranted, under
which l,ey ap,rove ,"'.-. which require that the
with our
consent ti
ties of which they approve any sum or
sums which we hope later to place in
lhr MJ1
''HELLO" BOY SOON A BROKER.
Rises In ' Years From aItch
board to Block Kxrhangr.
c. Hancke aonlled to R. II.
Hlmpson c Co.. 61 Brondway, bIx years
ago for a place as a telephone boy. He
sot It and made good. Ho rapidly has he
. 1 j i ... ....t.i.t.1. l.n. h.
anvancctt ... ..v
to his employers tiiai o, wie nrsi or ins
in0s wel'l as"a monYe TS
the nrm
News that a oeai ror a block kx-
change seat for the former telephone
boy had been made .was confirmed yes
terday In the ofnee of the firm, and it
will be posted within a day, or two for
transfer.
Drag; Heller Convicted.
For selling drugs, frequently to school
children In Harlem's Little Italy, Hamuel
Montagns, 31, a barber, Of 306 ICast
107th street, was found guilty In Bps
clal Hesslons yesterday. He was re
manded for sentence next Tuesday,
ItRWKY'g tWMIMJKI) tlHArH JUH'K.
Safe and nourishing for rhlhlran Invalids,
jl rultoo St., N. Y. I'hone mi cert.
D. S. TO FORCE
FOOD INQUIRY
Federal Investigation Into
Cost of Living to Bo
Nationwide.
PltOSECL'TIOK PROMISED
Experts Now ut Work Over
Country Gathering
Facts.
Wi.niK.iTnvf ne. a The Keileiali
investigation of the high cost jf living J
began to-day to take definite form with
Indlcatlbni that It would be one of the
most comprehensive ever undertaken
and would extend to every section ofjastlsted Oliver In receiving.
the United States. Not only Is a sweep
ing Inquiry Into the causes of the soar
ing cost of foodstuffs contemplated but
the recent pinch In the coal supply and
Its resultant price advances also will be
made. In all tirobablllty. the subject of
broad Investigation.
From President Wilson down officials
began to cope In earnest with the prob
lems presented by the situation. The
President took under consideration pre
liminary reports which with others yet
to come will form fie basis for rec
ommendations he may make to Cnograns.
A doien speeches on the subject were
made in the House and several resolu
tions proposing Inquiries weres. Intro
duced. These were referred to com
mittees without discussion, most of them
going to the Interstate nnd Foreign
Commerce Committee, of which Rep
resentative Adamson, who la opposed to
embargoes, Is the chairman.
Officials In Conference.
Department of Justice officials held
all day conferences with members of
the Federal Trade Commission and Dis
trict Attorney Anderson of Boston. In
charge of the Department's Investiga
tion and here to formulate a definite
plan of conducting the nationwide In
quiry. About fifty picked Investigators
of the Department's bureau of Investi
gation were reported to be at work
throughout the country gathering data
which will determine the Attorney-Oen-eral's
course of action.
The Interstate Commerce Commission
probably will be called upon to aid by
furnishing data relative to shipments of
foodstuffs, and Ml. Anderson will confer
with commission officials before his de
parture. Urand Jury Investigation In
New York or Chicago, or both, of the
reasons for rising prices are said to be
Stilt tinder consideration.
With the programme still In process
of formation there were Increasing Indi
cations that officials were considering
the stuatlon from three angles, namely:
The Probe Mtnatlon.
Kiml Determination of the actual
causes of the rapid rise In foodstuffs
nnd coal, whether it was duo to
natural economic laws, to the unwar
ranted action of Individual dealers
and producers In advancing prices, or
whether there exist agreements nmong
groups of dealers or producers to
boost prloes.
Second Vigorous prosecution of
persona or firms, If any, who by vio
lation of existing laws, In making
agreements to raise prices or other-
wise, have contributed to the upward
trend of prices.
Third Knactment of legislation to '
remedy tne present situation and to
prevent Its recurrence.
The situation Is In the first of these
stages so far as the Department of Jus-
Mice Is concerned. With Its lnvestliritors
already ut work Department uttlclals i
caneii upon the Federal Trade Commls-
all data which the commission atreadv
further aid In obtaining Information
which can be ncoulred without i,Mi.r
. I 1 1 . . ... . . . .
materially to the burden Imposed on the
commission by other pending Inquiries
'
Ma Investigate Organisations,
.ua inveatlgate Organisations,
, aduUon Department official
t officials aie
ng the udvlsa-'
uch organliii -
I of Trade the
Exchange' tho
the New York,
. miUM(nftll . - , , - .
understood to be con-Werlng the udvlsa.
uimy ot investigating such organlxa
lions as tne umcago Hoard
Chicago Butter and Kgg
KUIn Board of Trade and the New York
Produce, Sugar and Coffeo exchanges
with a vlow of ascertaining by what
practices the market values of certain
foodstuffs dealt In by the bodies are de
termined. An Inquiry Into the amount
of foodstuffs held In all the cold storage
establishments of the country and ppssl
bl y as to the volume of grain stored In
elevators also is said to bo under con
sideration. Complaints have reached the Depart
ment that coal nrlces were advanced
recently because, In large measure, of tho
activities of certain Independent dealortt
not heretofore In tho business who are
reported to have contracted with the
chief eoul companies for virtually their
enuro unsom output ror tho winter. It
WUH clmrgC(1 thn, 0 UeaUrs, Ccntlng
, f((l fl, na(, , ,
Proriutlon In Vlrw,
I " -!!r complaints under In
' ,. ' J... " ,mve n,en "
' " ' .WTW ,o a
remedy for tho problem ranged from a
2&MVhn
which would provide for
vide for fish hatcheries
Rr.d.ecl?.ratloV..b'i
of the Rules Committee.
in twenty Htates,
Chairman Henry
after a conference with the President,
that he thought Congress would conduct
1 an Investigation of the high cost of
, living.
1 They embraced resolutions by Repre-
aetitatlves Rnrlnnrl nntl Mill nr,.t..tln-
( - ...... ......
r
. ou!d "for" an Kr'go 'on'Ts
, -ho., and ."m,ured leather goods
. hi ii x ,n'-.en aiive. oapain . or
,1 linn.s s nes.aneq to a a r-enerai em -
p.oyees to meet tne siiuauon riy mcreas -
sent a letter to Piesldent Wilson yestsr
duy suggesting a plan which he believes
Continuti on Fourth Pap.
1 of those earning up to 11.800 annually. . T . ,.i,iJ' . vtT.. ' , V hurkauack, one piece nshwood, siege imu imta ton iii.iiyiie.i loin, (whole nf Irelnn.t, Ulster be ng provision-
or inose earning up to i,u annually, , a(J rush tig up to Wax, stuck , (w am, ,4 ,ulf quarts turp-ntlne. one . Ilcatlons of steel and concrete to the ally Included, for three years, oil the con-
, out his hand and said . ollk WOOd, eight batir'towels and i n-rap heap llucharest was considered the .hilon that conscription be extended to
WIT WW? Am A VKFn Lco.rl? y a,n . V iV' a number of other Items. j second most strong y defcided l.uropeati I iro(. This Is wholly untrue."
HIS IIWIII .V l.f U UUI Will. IIV Mllll UJ .1 .... I., i... A., II.I.m.m. . . , . . ., .1, ...1.... - ..
mail iv wnuuriir, Tlle commissioner of Charities left I capital aner i ari. 11 nun eigmeen John Redmond, tho Nationalist leader
. ,rrZ T. - Lau5 I S."1"" Wh0 W1S Wa to h,mHeU a loophole to escape In case of outer forts of tho first class and as many ls mlot, by the Tlis.s aa repudiating
lllllon want. Federal flla.aardlsa- be his double , by HtaU,llt tial ha reB.rv. ,h more ,malltr works, .edoubta and bat- .tat-mant and a. saying that he had
tlon or e-ood. iv,,, arei ? ' co tlnl Z 1,, " V,M l" wl,lh"raw ot the articles, terles u(rt 0 ntlotlatlons or conversations
John J. Dillon. Commissioner of ,h. jST-IE Vohavn xSJSSt
Klata Denortment of Poods and Uat-Lrat. 1 want you to know that I'm the best "'.,,'' a nf the saveat and most nrosoerous nf 'l.on or .Va:a .1
NINE SAY WAX IS
ELUSIVE OLIVER
James W. Osborne, Identifying
Him, Exclnim, "I'm Cer
tainly Hind to See You."
BEAMS OX THE
WOMEN '
,
Prisoner Appear) to Enjoy
Thoroughly hi "At Homo'
in Federal Building.
'
the i
The "Oliver Osborne nt Lome,
toclal event of the Federal Rultdlng sea
son, look place yestordsy "afternoon. As
sistant Dlstrlrt Attorney linger H. Nool
an4 n number of rjoteromenl detectives
The lln
formed on the right and was compo'ed I
of girls to whom Oliver lin.l mada love. '
Jam., W. Csborn. a poHccm.n who had ,
tnkiHi Mm nl.!n nril li&trl keener.
' ' - ' .
Thty all said the Charles II. Wat who
Ilftii lutein itr.Mtarlii rVntu gti1MVn Wllft tilt I
man known to then, as Oliver Osborn.l-
ur vuuic cquivaicni nnae.
some equivalent alias.
Oliver enjoyed himself thoroughly. As
each mnn or woman to whom he had .
been known In his brief but exciting
sojourn In Nnw York came forward he
grlnntd, thrutt forward his band and
said, (Tin gl.id to see you." As the
meetings became more numerous toward
the end of the afternoon he became mou
rner ry. and at last the enttr roomful of
people burst Into laughter as landlady J
or beiWldered glr. came In and smiled
at the elusive Oliver and then rushed
forward to voice their sorrow at seelnr,
him In this embarrassing predicament.
There was little doubt In the minds of
those who watched that Oliver Osborne
has at last been found. Altogether nine
persona came forward during the six '
hours that he received to identify him
as the Oliver Osborne whom James W,
Osborne has asserted was the man who '
made love to Rae Tanxer. Miss Tanser !
was the only person of real Interest in ,
the case who did not appear, and It Is ,
not likely she will be a sited to confront
him until the trial. I
heM.ii u-unbi. .i.n.e. v. ,
Wax does not resemble James IV. Os
borne at all. He Is a trim, rather heav
ily built mn, with broad shoulders and
an athletic figure. James W. Osborne Is
older and more stooping, of uncertain
movement, compared with the younger
man. Was is full faced, about 46 years
old. In the prime of life; James' W.
Osborne's face Is longer, more lined ai.d
of elderly appearance. Ills hair Is gray:
Wax's Is black, although he has n KilJ
Siot on the top of his head. OelKirne
has the famous mole that Rae Tanxer
described on the back of his neck; Wi
has none.
The- story told by Wax, or Oliver,
tallied perfectly with the stmy told by
Rae Tanser and what elso the Federal
authorities have been little to learu o
the mysterious perron who dlsappeurel
when the Osborne rase first came lnt,
prominence. The final clinching of the
two Identities came with the Identlfloi
tlou nf Oliver as the nun who vlslleil
the Plalnfleld hotel with Miss Tsnter
and the comparison nf Oliver's signature
with the signature "O. Osborne" on the
hotel register. To the Inexpert eye they
were Identical.
Mr. Osborne was Jubilant at the end
of tne day when no uroppeu inio uie
Federal Rulldlng on his way hftme.
Oliver had been the target or IdentMci-
,l0 ,la lon alm n;lu "ie oui .ir.
Osborne's utnry.
"'" ,nro a,,y doubt now? he ssked
newspajwr men.
?o ne was more at ease during tho
long afternoon than Vx. He chatted
brought him from Chicago, dictated i
long statement for Mr. Wood In which
i h accounted for nil his movements I,:
' New York., read the paper or smoked
nnr laughed, off the questions of re -
porters.
1. nH 1, 1 m I,
port
Wlnka nt Strnogranbrr.
, , , , , .,
. '' "P0 K,r ,hc 1 i
1 t'oginpher who took down all he said.
I nll1 wx "Scaled himself perfectly In!
h"..""1" "JlonB h' aM h"- ,He i
....
, !.. ni .-. n . iui
there was ono girl In the room, the,
smiled and winked nt her unconsciously
It was apparently second nature to him
to be nattering, deferential, Interesting
and nt all times sure of himself where
a woman was concerned.
The women who came to Identify him
at the man who had made love to them
had only kind words for him; his land
lady, who had been left with trunks full
of assorted suits and shoes, beamed and
whispered In his ear, while Oliver patted
her on the shoulder and whispered back,
Kven the Federal authorities snemed to
think he was a pretty good fellow'.
Wax's day stnrted when he was taken
to the Federal Building In the morning
to he confronted by Jamei W. Osborne,
Wax was well groomed, dressed In n
dark suit of clothes, his only mnnnient
a cameo phi In his tie. He was entirely
Inconspicuous nnd prepossessing. He wus
I nlf.n Intn Mr Wnntt'it nflli.e. whtoli
quickly filled up with post office Inspec-
tors, United Htates marshals and report-
ere until thirty men were crowded Into
the room. Wax stood at (he tight of Mr.
Wnod's desk, with the other men
grouped In n semicircle before him. The
'neaiest man was about live feet away, l
! MT. Iliad' lum'S'S'Mr.
i Osborne entered und peered through his
the llnelnfront of h.m. He,
m0ved forward until he ctood almost nt
Wax's elbow without appearing to see
h)m. His eye had gone about half way
ay
,lnwn the line when an ImnlllMlve re-
r . "
aurvey nun mm luiuru, nuns Jim tryca
for a second over wax without
1 "WM
Ol.d . Mee, Again.
i T)lfn h, lurn,d and went out the door
, bv whlch he had entered, and Mr. Wood
, foii0wed him. But only n moment
friend you've got.'
Edwin W. Wlllcox then entered and
recognised Wax as ths Oliver Osborne
'Cenllsued en Ttirtl Page.
' ', ".""r"'"' ," I eluding three doien eggs, in a desperate von raiKennnyn s rapiu advance that
the man?' He was choked off by Mr. pI.,t t0 jwfr ,6 tax rate. (observers here believe the Itumanlans
Wood. Mr. Osborne did not seem to Notice of the auction, which will be n.ny have given up all hope of holding
heed the Interruption. Ho continued his , , , on ni,niHiH i,innd Friday, ap- Bucharest and have got out In time be-
l. I IIIU I
U-BOATS RAID FUNCHAL,
3 SHIPS SUNK, 40 DEAD
German Submarines Shell Cap
ital of Madeira Island
' Population in Panic.
I.onixin, Dec. 6. tier man submarines
inlded Punch.il, capital of tho Island of
Madeira, on .Sunday. The population.
frightened, fled, and only returned when
the .lubmatlnes departed under an In-
tenre fire from the fortress.
The French gunboat .Surprise was
sunk by the sttbmarlnos. Thirty-four of
the crew perished.
Ill- Itn.lllMt... - M n . . n . . . L'tlll1 I
aboard the steamers Kanguroo and
Daclu. which were torpedoed and sunk.'
The submarines shelled tip shore fur
two llour. especlnlly the Hngllsh cabtu
siuiion tkiiu uiiirr puuiit; uuiiuuii,, wu,
only smalt damage was done.
Tho gunboat Hurprlsa was a vessel of I
SM tons. Hho was 114 feet long ami j
tarried a complement of 100 men. The
.Surprise was built In 1R. The Dacia
was n British cable laying steamer of
t.SCO ton anil was owneu in ionoon
T. W,." "navape
... ... , . r .n-'- l.t.
mini sne yoi Uliviiurru u.i muiui " I
.m on her rltut trip here In ISIS. She
on ner nmi trip acre in .. .,!
a rcst tank steamship. Into which
Ua
Schneiders of Creusot and was designed
t0 deliver new submarines to purchasers.
She delivered a submarine to Buenos
i, dui aiier mill .
time was employed so far at known In
carrylnR general oargo.
:
GERMANS LAUNCH
NEW VERDUN DRIVE
Desperate Attaek on Positions
West of SIcase Xets
Small Gain.
London, Dec. . The Crown Prince
ma(ln tn.jay his first attack at Verdun
. . . Fr.nch victory In Octo-
lne ,ne ,r'at rtncn victory m u w
ber. nis troops fougnt their way Into
some of the Trench advanced trenches
near Le Mort Homme, on the west brink
j of the Meuse.
At 3 :S0 Ihls afternoon the German In
fantry attacked, atter an Intense" artil
lery fire on a French salient French
machine guns raked the advancing lines
of German Infantry, causing heavy
'.esses. Struggle aa they would, the Ger
mans could not get past the first line
trenches. They held only "some ad
vanced elements" when the night state
ment was Issued In Paris.
On the rest of the front In Fiance and
Belgium there was mors of the apparent
ly restless but ulmless fighting of the!
past fortnight. Belgians and Hermans
tliiew trench bombs In u duel near Dlx
nuide and Belgian and German artlileiy
were active on the Yscr. On the Homme
then was a heajy bombardment, and tho
British made more trench raids.
The 1'renclt Report.
The French official statement to-night
reads :
On the Pomme front artillery fight
In Champagne our artillery took
under Its fire and dispersed an enemy
.detachment northeast of Fontalne-en-Dorvuolx.
n the left bank of the Meuse, tho
Germans, after Intense artillery prep
aration, attacked nt 3:10 o'clock In
the afternoon a salient of our lines
on the slopes east of Hill 304. Re
ceived with a violent fire from our
i machine gum tho enemy wns able
to gain a footing only In some ad
a need elements.
Itelglan Communique In the eve-
nliig
and during the course of the
! night bomb fighting occurred In the
region of Dlxmude. The artillery was
j quite active on both sides of the Yser
, front.
The afternoon statement sas
T,llr "f,f
"
Dorme br
Mh ,evcni
.ame day
his sevenl
It Iimh linen irmflrntel th.it A, lit
Dormp brought down on December I
enteenth enemy airplane. Thn
Hergt. Vlallet brought down
th machine, which fell for a
distance of 700 yards at a point to the
east of Heugny,
The British Itrport.
The British statrment to-night reads
as follows :
This morning we successfully raided
enemy trenches southeast of Neuvllle
Kt. Vaast. The enemy attempted raids
west of Beauvralna and northeast of '
Hncllncnurt. Both failed. We took a
few prisoners.
On the rest of the front, except for
some heavy enemy shelling In the
neighborhood of Beaucourt L'Abbaye
and Le Mouquet fnim nnd on our
front north ot the Ancre, there was no
event of Importance.
To-day's German statement says:
Western Front Yesterday there
....... ...nln a Lmiuirarv liirrenae Iti tlie
intensity of the artillery duel In the
1 Homme sector. Otherwise nothing of
Imvm tanco occurred.
1
1 fJITY AUCTION FOR 3 D0Z. EGGS,
! -
of Butter To-morrow.
TlM clty udget of more than
I it finn non
'-' 'u,"
fJ"x' .h
has caused kucii a nowi
xnavers that the city ofllclals
I I... ,i,.IHai1 In tint tin nt nurtlnn
l . . . 1
n ntimncr OI va uuuiu imnvppoiiiB, in-
,.p,.r.,t
J. hecord and caused conslderabls
n,me, Resides the eggs ,h. cy w,
saer flc these
' , "Vt. 'nmmds red nem.ers. five ..n .n i.
.?.: "' , . mM . .3
iii, . i,.ie nn,,,i .t,.S,Z.
SKAHOARD AIR 1.INR TO mil A
tfUIRIIIA 4'AKOUNA RBSURTH
ghortest, nioal atiractlvs routa. Hltel trains.
Quick scbtdulis, Jaii. lilt B'dwarr-Ud.
In yesterday's edition of tho Turn Ploesci rcll.
LLOYD GEORGE NOW BRITISH PREMIER;
BONAR LAW REFUSES TO TAKE REINS;
BUCHAREST FALLS; ARMY IN FLIGHT
Ploiisei, Grcnt Oil Centre,
Also in Hands of Vic
torious Teutons.
.
JlACKENSEN KKKI'S
'"'""Oli JVfililO
IT STEADY DJMVK
(jlM'lllilll 111 fi llfliti Ifmuiu
"c 1 ll"ul "HI1UHU(U MOOCS
to Trap the Bratm
Forces in Jldroat.
, ...w. Tiunmvtiii .
Ml.UOU J'llISOiN EliS
TAKEN IS A DAY
i . ..
J.ilM ISPMrCTOTG -IMlOl'l 10
,
Mem by Counter Offen-
sive Vain.
1.0XUO.V, Dee. . The flags of the
Central Powers fly o-er Buclinrest to
night. Tho capital of Rumania, ns well
an PIocbcI, the great oil centre, and
Sinaln, the summer capital, fell to the
Teutons to-day.
A large part of the beaten, weak
ened and demoralized Rumanian nrmy
may bo cut off and practically sur
rounded northwest of Bucharest. Ber
lin announces the capture nf C.OOO
more prisoners.
The taking of Bucharest virtually
completes the conquest of C0.000
square miles of southern Rumania, the
greater part of the fertile Wallachlan
plain, 100 days since Rumania declared
war.
Teatoias 1st Parsalt.
Troops of Field Marshal von Maekrn-
sen's army of Germans, Turks and
Hulgars, thnt crossed tho Danube Into
Rumania less than two weeks ago
entered the capital from the south. They
are now pushing out from Bucharest
pursuing the lleelng Rumanians and their
Russian allies, whose help came too late,
It was almost Into n deserted city
that the troops of Von Mackensen .
niurrhed. The greater part or ine people
of Bucharest hnd been sent tn Jsy, In
norlheastern Rumania, near the Russian
border, whither King Ferdinand nnd his
Mln ., .
""Il,n ,i" " ' I
Yesterday the Teutons were only sev
miles from the capital. For several days
their great siege mortars threw high
explosive shells Into the city and upon
Its thlrty-Mx armored forts and batteries
which were smashed ns the Belgian forts
were smashed. The evacuation of the
city was ordered after a Inst great effort
to save It by a counter offensive failed.
ireat OH Centre Taken
The capture of Ploesci is of military
mnortance undoubtedly greater -than
the capture of Bucharest. Ploesci. one
of Rumania s largest cities, with a pop-
ulatlon of 50.000, Is the great Rumanian
oil centre. Ith Ploesci there fell Into
the hands of the Teutons the whole of
the rich Rumanian oil fields. Tho sec-
ondary oil centre of Lamptna. w nere
the Standard Oil Interests are located, Is
also In Teuton hands.
Pluefcl. which Is thirty-six miles
nun ni ,L"1'' ' .
u
Junction of great Importance. Through
lit runs the main tallmad from Kron
stadt to Bucharest, und the miln line
through Buxeu north In Moldavia,
I The latter railroad was the only direct
I route of retreat for tho Rumanians who
held the Prnhova Valley north of
1 Ploesci nnd had to relinquish Sinala In
their retreat. If the Teutons took
Ploesci before this Rumanian army
could get safely away the army Is In a
serious predicament
Only One Road Open
The same railroad was one of two
routes of retreat for the Rumanians and
Russians holding Bucharest. Only two
railroads from Bucharest were not held
by tho Teutons beforo the fall of Ploesci
closed ono of them. On the other, from
Bucharest along the Danube northeast
to Fltescl. the rotreat Is being made.
If the Teutons took Ploesci before
Bucharest wns taken tho situation of
tho defenders of Bucharest Is also seri
ous. Their retreat by way or riorscl to
. llnanii WAN cut off. nnd It ts fparetl tlia
, single line from Bucharest to Fltescl
was unable to bear the strain.
This lino Is vulnerable to attack In
lease Von Mackensen could throw morn
troons across the Danube from the Do.
' brudja to cut It. Though the Danube
r,l" - "- winui-
nt present they arc frozen and a cross'
lug would be by no means Impossible, It
I Is believed.
Defence Impossible.
The lines of retreut from Buchaiest
. were nn few and thn Ploeaci rntitn ,
I .l.A..t. ....
rw .nii'iiiiij ,iihiikiiui mu uuva nxo uy
In entering llucharest the armies of
l",,--'"
ourU, L, te.Pll.. f Brussels. Cel.
alum. Montenegro nnd Serbia, are now
under German rule.
nefor. the German and Ao.trlnn
Kuronean capitals. The Rumanian nil
and wheat barons spent money lavishly.
The city was largely rebuilt by the late
CQiKlHiWd on tifWlMt Pflf Si
BONAR LAW'S FAILURE
TO FORM A CABINET
TRACED TO ASQUITH
London "Times" Suys Lloyd
Georgo Won't Be Aided by
Old Liberal Colleagues.
fprtial Cable Dtipatch to Tsx Sex Uat.x f
l.tnion Timet.
j I-onpo.v, Dec. . The Parliamentary
coi respondent of the rimes writes s
follows of the Cabinet situation :
' "Mr. Lloyd George is now endeavoring
to form a Ministry. The prospects of a
I solution of the Cabinet crisis' are hopo-
tui. Jir, Honor Law spent the day try
ing to form a Government. He was not
successful, and early In the evening he
Informed the Kin nt hla failure The'
King then sent for Mr. Lloyd' George!
"It cannot he said that any close ob.
server was surprised at the Inability of
Mr. Bonar Law to form a Government.
As head of one of the three parties of the
coalition It was virtually Incumbent up.in
him to endeavor to form an alterna
tive coalition Government. He could pre
sumahly count on the loyalty of the
Unloslt party. His chief concern was
to know what measure of support he
was to expect from the Liberal and L
bor parties.
Bnaar l.an'a Problem,
"Mr. Bonar Law was of course as
sured of the cordial support of Mr. Lloyd
George. There was no certainty about
the welcome which would be extended to
him by tho other Liberal members of tin
late Cabinet. The majority of these,
headed by Viscount Grey, seemed defi
nitely to have ranged themselves with
Mr. Asqulth In hla refusal of Mr. Lloyd
George's scheme ror a smaller war com
mittee and uncontrolled power In the
direction of the war, which the Premier
at once accepted.
"Mr. Bonar Law apparently took the
view that a stable administration under
his leadership could not be formed with
out a considerable Liberal representation.
"The critical hour of the day was
re.ched in the early afternoon, when the
King summoned Mr. Bonar Law, Mr,
Lloyd George, Premier Asqulth. Mr. Bal
four nnd Arthur Henderson to Bucking
ham Palace. It may be Inferred that
later developments of the proposal to In
clude Premier Asqulth and others In the
Bonur Law Ministry were discussed by
tne nve Ministers, representing the three
parties In the coalition, In the presence
or tils .Mujesty.
"Tho office obviously marked for Mr.
Asqulth In the Bonar Law Admlnlstrn-
,lon ,wa? tlwu of 'ml Chancellor. Thnt
hh' .r. Asquan n iransier-1
renco to the House of Lords and pre-
sumably to an earldom, the title which
was conferred on Disraeli.
"On Mr. Asnn Ill's return from the
. - --. ...
ven'Paiacti ne called n meeting of his chief
Liberal colleagues In Downing street. It
'la understood they discussed the sutr -
' gestion that Mr. Asqulth should Join
the Bonar Law Government, but the
strongest objection was taken to the
proposal,
I
AetialtU'a Declination.
"Ill a little while It became known that
Mr. Asqulth had definitely declined to
serve under Bonar Law. who at once
.,, ... ,..,. H ci- i,M.r..
Car.on al tne colonial Office. Mr. I .aw
1cMtta tlle hopelessness of thctask he
,a, undertaken and accordingly drove
, nckngham Palace and Informed the
i-, iv,ui,.- ti,.. i...... i.,..
,.. ,ut.h faures' in Knsllah political
history, hut It Is veiy unlikely that such
I ,lccblon rVf r llat been taken within
.twenty-four hour.
. .-n,. nosltlon .ii T ..'dn,. i. ilir.i
Ml. Asqulth, the leader of the Liberal
party, had resigned and Honar Law
leader of the Unionist party, had failed
to form an alternative government. Thj
King now sent for Mr. Lloyd Georg-
who undertook to form on odmlnlstr.i
tlon. This wns the solution all along
marked out by tho nature ftf the crisis.
"It was Mr. Lloyd George's action In
calling for tho reform of the machinery
for directing the war that led to Mr. A
qullh's resignation. It was only to be
expected that Mr. Lloyd George would
lie entrusted with the task of providing
an efficient substitute for the Inefficient
Instrument which ho condemned.
"Late though the hour was Mr. Lloyd
Georgo nt once set to work to carry out
the King's request. It was obvious from
his association with Bonar Law and Sir
Hdwaril Carson and his desire that labor
should have a larger share In the direc
tion of the war that Mr. Lloyd Georga
hnd no wish to form a party Government,
Under his banner Liberals, Unionists and
Labor all are welcomed, provided only
that they seek the common object
0,11 Collengnrs Ilnlk.
1 "R seems, however, thnt he cannot ex
pect the assistance of nny of his old
Liberal colleagues In the Cabinet, It l
mM tn.niirht that Mr. Aamiith'a t.iher.i
colleagues without exception have de-
emeu mai tney would noi sen's in any
circumstances In the Lloyd George Gjr-
eminent. '
"Tlil It a strange time of day for the
proscription of any man who wishes to
serve the State, but It la clear that a
large section of the Liberal party have
made up their minds for the time being
to regard the crisis as a personal quarrel
between Mr. Asqulth and Mr, Lloyd
George und to support Mr. Asqulth
through thick and thin.
"The Parliamentary Labor party were
summoned to a meeting yesterday to
consider the situation. They wisely ad
journed. One nf the many kites which
have been Mown In the newspapers for
the lost few days appeared In the Dailu
Chrantclr. the suggestion being that Sir
Kdward Carson wn In favor of setting
up a home rule Parliament for thn
ncr staled.
ORKAT.RKAR KfRINO WATER.
Ic. lbs caaeJief sis glM steptrg battle.
New Prime Minister Fuecs
Hard Koad yith Con
flicting Factors.
LABOMTES ALREADY
MAKE A PJ10TKST
King Fails to Effort a Rec
onciliation Anion!;
Party Leaders.
IXXEK COUNCIL TO
GUIDE THE EMPIRE
Bonar Law, Derby and ('ar
son Mentioned for the
Supreme Board.
1.0NDON', Deo. 6. David Lloyd George
has overthrown the Asqulth Cabinet
nnd will become Prime Minister him
self. The new Government will lie coali
tion, like to the old otic-, but probably
without thn same measure nf har
monious support which attended the
formation of the first coalition Govern
ment, because lis birth has created ad
ditional factional differences.
The official announcement lo-nlgtjt
that Lloyd George had undertaken the
task, with the. cooperation .of Bonar
I.aw, was a notification of the coali
tion nature of the new Government.
Any party Government would be
Impossible, because neither tho Union
ists nor the Liberals have a majority
In the Houso of Commons. Kltherone
must attach the Irish Nationalists or
the Laborltes to Itself to command a
majority.
Labor Against yrn rrn,rr
The Nationalists hnve refused to
participate in the Government until
homo rtllo becomes rxtnhltsh,! tiim
uro sworn enemies to Lloyd
George bemuse they resent his neru-
sntions that the worklna-mim Imvn mn
,heir nnL inT-... - .V?. " .. - '
. -- w nmvr mr !
iionnl nlpi-nul. nt I.....
" "v """
nes iltirliiK the
nnr.
1 "iat tne laborltes are not llke to
1 'i,nort n Lloyd George administration
., 8 ,'.urt."'r Indicated nt a meeting of
me I'arusmrtitnry committee of the
trades unions to-day, which adopted a
munition iiuaiiimour-iy expressing pro
found regret "that certain statesmen,
influenced by the press campaign, have.
In the hour of the nation's crisis, en
tirely failed o observe loyalty and self
sacrlllee which they repeatedly tuged
upon the workmen timing the war"
The lesolution continues: "Further,
we earnestly hon that the present tin
sesmly quarrel among tho.e IntiuMel
with great lesponslblllties shall Imme
diately ceae and so net u bettor exam
ple to the norkeis."
Bottnr l.nu's Action.
The I'ourt I'lrculsr to-nlglil. announc
ing I ne political audlciiit'M and tonfer.
I enees nt the palace to-day. hhjs
"The King gave n further iiiidlcnr
this evening to Mr. Honar Law, who In
tlmnted that he was unable to form itn
administration, Theieupnn the King
summoned .Mr. Lloyd Geoige, who at his
Majesty's request, undertook to en
deavor to fin m nn ndmliilHtratloti,"
This result hns emerged from another
dny of active mid hurried paity con
ferences nnd a day of intense stispennj
and Interest throughout the countiy.
There was a prospect this aficrnoni
that the personal offices of the King
might aolvo the situation, nnd mnnv
thought that the Axqiilth regime mlgh't
be continued. The King called the parlv
leaders to Buckingham Palace, and con",
ferret! with them for moro than an hour.
Mr. Asqulth nnd Mr. Lloyd George of
the Liberals, Mr. Bonar Law ami Mr
Balfour of the Unionists, and Mr Hen
derson of the libor party wne with tlm
sovereign It is ninny years since a
British ruler assembled the leprecenta
lives of tho different factions face to
I face when they had hhown themselves
unable to settle their difference, Hut
no such serious crisis has arisen heron)
to require such action by tlm King
Srcrrc) Mnlnf nlnril,
Whatever pase-ed in council ls held n
cret, but the Inference that the Klmi
tried to arrange n reconciliation appear
a most natural one. Tho five statesmen
departed separately, four In their motor
cant olid the worklngman's spokcsmin
afoot
Afterward the King gave an audience,
to Bonar Low, who declined to undertake
the formation of n nnw Ministry. The.
monarch then received Mr Lloyd George,
who accepted the responsibility, nsf evety
one anticipated ho would If the oppor
tunity came to him.
The countiy awaits the rising of the
curtain on the next act of this historical
and remarkable crisis with an expec
tancy which never surrounded the birth
throes of nny previous government. The
Lloyd George Ministry means the direc
tion of tho war by n dictatorship In the
form of nn Inner council of the Cabinet,
and means the scrapping of those, elder
statesmen whose suptemncy In the
councils of the nation, until they rims.,
to withdraw from tno scene wiluntarlh.
hns always nerclorore iieen regarded by
the British people its a matter of course
Mr. Asqulth, Mr. Ilalrnur, Viscount
Grey and Lord Lansrtownn "must go,"
the Lloyd George press has been crying.
But their going will he attended by wide,,
spread misgivings among the pcopli.
wlin have thought their knowledge ami
experience as necessary to tho Govern
ment as tho push and driving powct at
tbo group which will succeed them.
Ur. Lloyd U.orge Is committed to ike
