FINANCIAL-EDITION
W.J
J2
4
VSTR47
',.
NIGHT
EXTRA
fefrner
naiemtm
w
SLj 72l j vibft
L NO. 73
PHILADELPHIA, THURSDAY, DECEMBER 7, 1916
CortwaiiT. 1018, tt tn rcsuo f.ipon Coumht
ITAIN, FRANCE AND RUSSIA
IN GRIP OF POLITICAL CRISIS;
ITALY CALM; GREECE IN CHADS
Bloyd George to Reconstruct British
I Cabinet On Efficiency Basis.
f Poincare and Jof f re May Go.
: . r Dunia Demands Changes
H ROMU, 0c 7. The Uumanlnn disaster nntl the muddle In Greece arc both
ytribnted to the Anqulth Cabinet by the niomale d'ltalia today.
A in rllscusslnc the English political situation, the nancr avs it N In be honed
tal Ue ncvr Ministry will be stronger than the old in both a political and
pUiUry aensc.
y)NDON, Dec 7. The Labor party had agreed to participate in the new
a finTtrnment being formed by David Lloyd George, the Tress .Association an-
f jtmttd officially tonight.
Jy The Central News declares Lloyd ueorge has ottered the Labor party two
Wit-. n1u- nnp momlirrsliin In the War Council hnrt fhrr-r, tinflrr--r,.tnr-i1ilnn
Re""1"" : Lr
? m.- CtHnM ft,vl,tt,,V "IMIotirt .m" is ft!lArv tin HMnU. ..tat. ! it...
,l .jaUJmanhip of the wnr. Purely military movements nro subordinated to
problems ofstntccrnft and diplomacy. Solution of the problems is now of
-'awttUCtlVO cnarncicr, cxprcsscu in icrnia 01 vnuinci ncDacics, ionsiructlvencsH
5 reconstruction hnvo had their start in two countries England and Russia.
'sfcnaeo of existing Government is felt in France. The conclusion is forced thnt
kht Allies are in n precarious plight of polity.
l bven inc ciipiuiu ui j-iuiiian-nw uy inu juiiuuii iiiiius in uvursuuuuweu vuuny
bftha political news irom tno aiiicu capunis. I
f i Lloyd George has nccoptcd the task of reorganizing the British Ministry. I
t, -J .... .. .!. l.l - t T 0! T.l 1 " I .! tt.i.
6 lie Will nave tnu am 01 uuu.tr nun, oit iiira.uu vnr3on onu nnur ticnacrsoil,
the Labortto lender, a smnu wnr-controi committee mul vigorous action on
ne various fronts and nt homo are to bo the keynotes of his policy, which will
sxa an "efficiency basis" for its foundation.
Dispatches from Paris today quoted political writers as dcmnmling a rc
(tuinnlzation of tho French Government so ns to insure n moro vigorous prose-
Wedlon of the war along tho lines the new British Cabinet is expected to follow.
"tEia secret session of tho French Chamber of Deputies hns now nlmost reached
lis end and the conclusion of this meeting probably will bo followed by a "speed-fajr-up
process." Just what form this accelerating movement may take is guess
work, but there ore many who believe that General JofTre, tho Allied Commantlor-
t ,5n-Ch'ef, will be succeeded by General Petain, the French commandor at
Yerian, and tho retirement of President l'oincaro is forecast in some quarters.
f Pierfe Rcnaudel, prominent Socialist Deputy, hints at n reconstruction of most
..rtdieal nature.
Russia, too, is on the eve of a serious political transformation. In n
'rMrution adopted by the Dumn the removnl of additional Cabinet members
ndtmanded. Reports reaching America stnte also that tho nppointment
rfcTrepoff to succeed Sturmcr has failed to satisfy tho Duma and that Prof.
Mi"! .i i a- i n i
:. -Ttf.1 UlluUKOV is soon iu uui-uiuu .icmici.
"Ilaly is the only Entento nation unaffected by ministerial disturbance.
Jrtiaier Bosclli declares in a formal address that Rome will fight to tho last.
AjSbcfnlist movement for separate peace has been decisively defeated by tho
climber.
f ijT't.recc.q. is infatnte of suiarchy, Allied dispatches declare, and tho Entente
' ifuWtiea contemplate drastic action. A blockade of Greece as a measure of
reprisal for tho riots in Athens in which Frenchmen wero flrod upon will bo
officially announced tomorrow, a Paris dispatch states.
HmsBm
1 towi "2
TEUTON HOSTS
PUSH PURSUIT
OF RUMANIANS
Violent Roar-Guard Battles
Fought by Retreating
Army
AIM TO CLEAR DOBRUDJA
-tJM n.Wi
ADMIRAL II.
E. PEARY
As he appeared on tho streets to
day. Ho camo here to attend n
meeting of tho Geographical So
ciety. It is to bo noted that tho
Arctic explorer wears no overcont.
Though most people- find tho
weather rather sharp, the Admiral
denied that it could bo called
"chilly."
I
UOYP GEORGE II AS, BIG
TASK IN FORMING CABINET
r ih supreme
LONDON, Pec. 7.
(mention of tlio hour In
Mim 1 U ibellevea the
;ftgUna today was whether David Lloyd
6iore, would succeed In forinlnB a new
tlcUilnet, In his way stood the bllterneis
iptiyeil bj- certain frlendi of tho old re-'
t&semd yesterday's formal refusal of other
Llltnl party Ministers to serve under
iidrtw Bonar Iiw. which means now also
c:Jtr Lloyd Georee, slnco Iiw Is one ot
ijd George's most whole-hearted sup-
wrtf". V
But those familiar with tho couraee,
ifiermtnatlon. resourcefulness, personal
Kircttlira and Rood luck of Lloyd GcorRe
lytre not entertaining serious doubts today
er his ability to surmount these obstacles.
as-ielloied likely he will make a force-
m ppal to all partlen patriotically to sink
itlr political dllllcultles In the single pur-
fw m waging an energetic nna success
fuleenduft nt iIim u-nr
BTt House of Commons met and ad-
LrPW today without any announcement
We made concerning- the new Ministry
M hesded by David Lloyd Gcorce. The
Xlmu was In session only two minutes.
adjournment was taken until next
ipiiy.
lloyd Ceorge has nlenty of excellent ma.
Urii from wnch ,0 draw. h,a CabIn8t,
Ml tho names which wero most nroml.
asuy mentioned today as possible Minis-
r fr!
Bonif Law. Unlnnlit T r..
fi ' 'h Karl of Derbj'' Unionist;
Mltner, Unionist,; Winston Churchill,
fflr4; Lord Robert Cecil. Blockade Mln-
T m tha late Cabinet. Ilnioni.t . a.v,...
lsWfOn. Mlnlatiir nt nn.i.. , .l. ...
&1J. i . .w,w in ins laio
it. Laborlts; Lord Devonnnrt iTni.
I Sir Henrr Dai.i.i tik.., -j .
lior. Uberai.
jft chief dlffleultw i,i,. t.-...
Wits I, i ,, , " " ")" ueorge
KHZ ' .Ualn "P """'dent support In
Kf!L , . mlnU""r. The present
ucai complexion of thA Tin.,.. ,.. .,,-.
ttT U "! 0B"". 9J Indepen,
BRYAN OPPOSES
U: S JIAIL RULE
Ex-Secretary of State Tells
Congressional Probers
It Is Dangerous
PEOPLE WOULD SUFFER
W
new cabinet-maker will
""d on rie rear. Column On.
E WEATHER
Fnffnnic-n
Jor PMIadelDhla nA .,..,... .
BS!SiKJWS
Mfe w,r :?- ."""" "Way;
pMt Friday. """"w
trcth
MM
SMpm.
0 J? p.m.
ttNGTIf OF DAY
iV.:??- I.Von rl .
.11 V UL 1 kliu.1. ....... .
,-!Vi?'fi?i--ii35
if-lTUEE AT HACH I.ni n.
It 3
WASitlNGTO.V, Dec. 7. Wholesale po
Iltlcal corruption and a general breaking
down of the powers of the Individual Stutei
were predicted by William Jennings Jlryan
today as the "Inevitable result" of the plan
of the railroads to centralize nil railroad
control In the Kederal Government. Testi
fying before the Joint Congressional Com
mittee Investigating railroad conditions, the
former Secretary of State declared that re
suits of the railroad proposal would Include
The Injection Into national politics
of a greater corruptee force than we
have eer known before
' The remqval of regulation to the na
tional capital and the consequent diffi
culty the people would find In con
trolling their representatives.
The obliteration of the State lines
and the consequent evil centralization
of power.
Mr. Dryan said the proposed Incorpora
tion of the railroads would saddle an enor
mous governmental machinery on the coun
try. The plan, he said, was bound to be a
failure, and would "make Government own
ership Inevitable."
NOT YOl PUflLIC OWNERSHIP
Tho witness told the committee he did not
deslro government ownership and would
prefer to try In every way to make regula
tion of the railroads effective.
"This plan of exclusive Federal control,"
he sard, "would build up an enormous Fed
eral bureau with a great number of offi
cials. The democrat believes that society
Is built up from the bottom; the aristo
crat, that society Is suspended frpm the top.
I am a democrat.
"When )ou take these powers of the
States and bring them to Washington, you
make It difficult for the people tp watch and
control their representatives.
".Now, this plan would Involve continued
legislation by Congress involving money
t the railroads I50.000.g00 or JlOO.ppi.OOO
at a' time- Those railroad would bring
Influence to bear in every form- on the
member of Congress who would have to
act It took fiongre'ts ten or fifteen years
tn Increase the powers of the Interstate
Commerce Commission against (he Influ
ence of the railroad. The railroads were
powerful enough to thwart the will of the
people for that length of time
"This plan wouUlNJsrlng Into national poli
tics a corruptive tprce greater than we
have ever known. We would find railroads
SkUilBg candidal for nomination to Con
grew and r election.
fh b4 workleg $ of ttw rajlBMnI
U. S. EXPEDITION
INTO ANTARCTIC
URGED BY PEARY
North Polo Discoverer
Wants Frozen Continent
to Be Claimed by Nation
LIEUTENANT WOULD LEAD
Hear Admiral Itobcrt II. Tear", who
reached tho North Pole, today suggested an
Antarctic expedition under the nusplces of
tho Government as a means of bringing
under the United States flag Immense arras
of uncharted land In a great frozen con
tinent south ot Cape Horn.
The land has great possibilities. Admiral
Peary raid. It might provo the source of
great wealth furthermore, the expedition
should be nttempted "when things settle
down," for the rcaBon that no effort hai
ever been made by Americans to exploro
the great Antarctic circle Other nations
have sent expedition after expedition, somo
never to return, the explorer said, but the
United States hatt lagged.
MIJ.N WILLING TO HO
There Is excellent materia! for such an
expedition," said Admiral Peary today,
before leaving for, Washington -jien who
aro unexcelled in knowing the trails of tha
frozen waste are willing to go "
"Would ou care to head the expedition?"
he was nsked.
"No. I have lived comfortably for three
'years ayvuy from pemmlcun twice a day."
he replied. "Captnln Ilartlett is the man
Continued on I'see Tito, (olunm rt
Gcrmnn Governor and StiifT
Alrendy on Way to
Bucharest
LONDON, Dec. 7.
One hundred thousand Kumnninntt
have been captured lij the Herman nl
lien since Kumnnin entered the war, on
August 27, according tn nn Exchange
Telegraph- dispatch from Copenhagen
today.
nnm.ts, Dec 7.
The lUmo-ltumnnlnn armies In Central
It u in nn la nre retreating along their entlrn
front, the German War Ortlco nnnounccd
today.
ICImplna, nt the northern terminus of the
Iluchnrest-Plochtl railroad, hns been cap
tured by the AtiMro-Germ-in
The German allies thnt ocruplrd nucha
rest jesterd.iy enptured 106 oITlcers and
9100 Itusslnn and Uumanlnn soldiers.
High tribute Is pnld by the German War
Olilco to the valor of the German, Austro
Hungarian, Ilulgnrlnn nnd Turkish soldiers
In tho Uumanlnn theatre
In announcing- the momentous events of
Wednesday, tho War Olilco said:
Powerful siKcessps crowned tho In
born nnd lighting In which, under Kleld
Mnrshnl von Matkensxn. the troops of
tho Ninth nnd Danube armies, under
t'lenr-slghted leadership, defeated the
llumniilnn netn,y and the summoned
ItUHslan re-enfonemeiits by quick
strokes Tim commandor nnd his
troops received victory's rewnrd Ilu
charest. tho capital of tho country
which, nt present. Is the last victim ot
tho l.'ntepto policy.
Tho P.usslnns arc still nttncklng ulong
tho eastern frontier ot Transylvanln
Thn oltlclal statement follows:
Army group of Archduke Josef On
the front of the wooded Carpathians
nnd in the mountains of Moldavia (the
northern end of Uumnnla). there has
been a temporary Increase In the artil
lery activity and forefleld skirmishes
I-'iom the north of noma Wntrn down
tn and In the Trotoaul Vnlley Itusxlau
attacks developed, all of which were
repulsed.
Army group of Field Murshal von
Mackenscn Yesterday powerful suc
cesses crowned the labors and fighting
in which, under Kleld .Marshal Von
Mttckcnsen, the troops of the Ninth and
Danube armies, under clear-sighted
leadership, defeated tha P.umankm
enemy and summoned Itusslan re-enforcements
by quick strokes.
The commander and his troops re
ceived victory s reward Uucharest,
the capital of the country which, nt
present. Is tile latest victim of the en
tente's polk- Ploechtl. Hlnal and Kim
plnu ur In our possession also
The defeated enemy l retreating
c-istward along his entire front.
The lighting nnd courageous nnd
tenacious will of victory made the
roops that stormed and conquered
yield every effort asked of them. He
sides the German main forces brave
Austrn-llungarlan. Ilulgarlan and
Turkish troops did splendid uork
The Ninth Army reports the capture
of lofl otllcers and 1100 men slnco
vestcrdny
Our operations and the engagements ,
nre going forward
The advance of the Teuton army of the
Danube south of Ilumanln Is uxpectcd to
comnel the evacuation of northern Dnhrudja
by the Russians and Itiimnnlaiin This will
give the German allies control of the Danube
river from Its source to Its mouth
The announcement of the capture of
IlucharcMt and of Ploesci th great Ilu
mnnlun railway totwi of thirty miles north
of the capital hns cuuted the utmost re
joicing throughout the Gerinun empire
Mllltl.iry critics believe that a is a mntter
of dais only until the entire Rumanian
kingdom Is In German hands and the way
opened far u drive Into Itusslu by way of
QUICK NEWS
EXPRESS DRIVER ROBBED IN CROWDED STREET
LOS ANGELES, Bcc. 7. Throwing pepper Into the oyca or a
Wolls-rnrRo express driver, two men robbed hint of two sacks of gold,
believed to contnln $3000, todny. The robbery Banned near tho
Pacific Electric building, In n crowded street.
NIGHT
EXTRA
'. -
PRICE ONE CENTS
COUNCILS VOTE
TODAY ON 'COP'
RISK SCANDAL
Will Decide on Probe
Into Gamble on Po
lice Lives
WALTER DAMROSCH ABLE TO LEAVE FOR NEW YORK
UAtriMoiti:, Deo. 7. Waller Dninrosch, conductor of tho Now York Sym
phony Orchcstrn, vvlui collapsed on tho singe while conducting n concert last eve
ning, hud recovered sulllclcntly tn Icnvo for Now York this inornlnn. Danirosch
snld thnt his Illness vvns not of a serious nature.
DANISH AND SPANISH SHIPS SUNK, LLOYD'S REPORTS
LONDON, Dec. 7. Tho Danish ship Noxos. 101.1 tons, nnd tho Spanish nhlp
Julia llenlto hnvo both been stinlt, presumably by mibmntlncs. says n Lloyd'n dlH
patch today.
FIRE DAMAGES RAG AND PAPER WAREHOUSE
Kite, snld tn hnvo been caused by sponlnucoiiH combustion, i-nrly todny dam
aged stock nnd ptopcrty to tho extent of J2000 In tho roc nnd pnpor vvnrchnilso of
Specter Matuson, Ml! North Thltd street. Tho llnmos vveio dlncovoicd by n mnall
boy who happened In Jio passing tho building. Hn told Hamilton, n policeman of
tho Third street and Kalrmount nvenuo police station, who turned In tho nhtrm.
PHILADELPHIA LEADS IN CIGARS AND CIGARETTES
Phllndi'lphln led tho country lit tho iiianufacttiro of clgnrn nnd clgni cites fur
tho Ilrst four months of the llscnl year, ncconllni: to figures Riven out todny by
Internal Itnvcnue Coltcctor I.cdcror. During thn months of July, August, Soptumbor
nnd October tho l-'lrst Pennsylvania. District, which cmnpiiseM Philadelphia and
ndjncent counties, put out S91.970.1-IO cigars, or nn Increase of 18.ri37.C00 fur tho
corn-spondlng tlmo Inst year. Approximately 31.370.0S:! cigarette wero inndo hero
In those months, which Is nn Increase- of 3.5B'J,1(IG over InRt jenr.
MAGISTRATE CALL TOO ILL TO STAND OPERATION
Thn condition or .Mnglstrnto oscpli Cnll vvnt so critical today Hint tho physicians
attending him could not amputate bis right leg, which they bellovo necessary to
.vivo his Mfo. Magistrate Tall Iiiih been con lined tu his honnwtDn North nightb
streot, for somo time, ills leg recently heenmo affected by Knngtouu. At thu con
sultation nt noon thn physicians agreed thnt thu Magistrate's physical condition
vv'outd not permit of the operation.
WHITELEY AND WOOD
ASSAIL EACH OTHER
Exposure Will Stop Practice
at Least, Says Coun
cilman SEEKS COMPLETE INQUIRY
Threats to Sue Fly Thick and
Fast, but 'None Has
Sued Yet
STATE VOTE OFFICIALLY TABULATED
HAIlUIHIIL'ltO, Dec. 7. According to completo olllclnl roturns of tho Novem
ber elections now being computed nl tho 8tnto Department, Pennsylvania gnvo Knox
for United States .Senator fiSO.tf.l votes; Orvls. Democrat, 450.106; Krvln, Soclnllst,
,3ir.; Amos.. Prohibition, 30,010; Thomas, Industrialist, iOL'2; MeCauley, Single Tax.
1387. .Senator Knox's vote was divided ns follows: Itcpubllcnn, GCZ.IHS; Hoosovelt
Progressive. 13,3ilS, Keystone, 3839, nnd Personal Mbeity, 1028. Tho vote for Sen
ator was tho (IrHt to ho counted, following tho receipt today of Ibo roturns of
Sullivan County, thn Inst to arrive For Auditor Clonerul Snyder received a totnl
ot 082,910; Muriln, Dcmocint, -148,85(1; Tyler, Socialist, 47,258; Ilepp, Piohihltlon, 33,
2D8: Splttull, Industrialist, 527; Wright, Single Tax, 1579. Snydor'n voto was divided
ns follows Itepiildlcnn, G70.104; Hull Moose. 9147; Keystone, 2389; Personal Lib
erty, 1000.
MANY FIRMS INCREASE WAGES
Increases In wnges nnd n-lnl bonuses for employes mo announced by tho
following' Pittsburgh Steel Company, vvltb plants nt Moncssen nnd (llasspnit, 10
per cent or 7000 men, American Iron nnd Steel .Manufacturing Compnny, Lebanon,
Pa., 10 per cent, Illrd"boin Steel Foundry anil Mnchlnn Company, Ulrilsbnro, Pa
C and 10 per rent. 500 men, employes In copper mines In tho I.ako Supeilor district,
25 cents per day bonus for 17,000 men; Ilnngor nnd Aroostook Hallroad, bonus of -I
per rent on the l.ist six months' wages; Henry A. Dlx & Sons Company, Mlllvllle.
N. J., bonus of 0 per cent, Penn llnrdwnro Company, Reading, Pa., bonus or 10 per
cent, 850 men, Plalnlleld, N J , Trus Company, bonus of 10 per cont: Oiorgo V
Prentiss A Co. and National llnnk Ilonk Company. Uolynkc, Mass, tha fonnor a
bonus of 5 per cmt for 700 men, tho latter n 10 per cent bonus for 600 men; Aluminum
Goods Manufacturing Company, Manitowoc, Wis, n bonus consisting f Insuranco
polices of (500 to (1000 to 1800 men.
Councils' nttltude on the police Insumnc
scandal will bo determined this afternoon,
when n voto will lie taken on the propo
sition to Investlgato tho situation created
when tho police beneficiary association di
rectors permitted nil the members of tht
organisation to bo Insured In tha Pension
.Muttinl I,tf Insuranco Company without
their knowledge
Councils was foced with the proposition
Inst week when Councilman I, AValtsr
Thompson, of the Forty-sixth yard, Intro
duced a resolution asking that a council
mnnln Investigating commlltco of five b
appointed. That bi ought the scandal Into
puhllc notice, Final action vvua postponod
until today so that the Councllmen couM
ncuuulnt themselves with tha situation.
imOUCIHT INTO OPEN
Said Councilman Thompsun today;
There Isn't nny doubt that there re.
mains nny member of Councils today
who does not know what he Is being;
iiikrd to vote on, No matter has
ever received a more thorough airing
In u week with such Information as
wo had nt hand.
So far it is good. Hven If It went
no ftiithcr I would say that Immeas
uiablo good has been accomplished;
the public has been brought faca to
face with u scandal and the parties
In it have been mada to come fairly
out Into the open. Hut we fiavo not
gone fur enough. We want to know
every detail back of the scheme; tha
pubtla should know and It must know,
I will Insist this afternoon that the,
Investigating committee ha appointed
npil then go ahead with Its work It
would not be proper to leave n thing
hnlf douo
The olllcers of the Pollco llanellclary As
roclatton already huvo declarod that thoy
wero "through with philanthropy," nnd thus
It Is certain that Mr. Thompson's resolu
tion of a week ago will have soma effect
He Is going the limit, however, he rtald,.i!o
make tha Investigation complete. He has
visited many station houses, talked with
many policemen and Is convinced by what
they say that tha policemen want the affair
probed to tho cnl.
i.Ti:ni:sT in councim
If Mr Thompson hsd not introduced th
resolution It Is a question whether tha scan
dal would have come to light for a long
time. It Is almost ceitaln that Commis
sioner O'Ncll would have discovered it in
his probe, but thnt might havo taken many
weeks. The Forty-slxtii Ward Councilman
has stopped tho schema whereby policeman
wero being Insured without knowing any
thing about It.
Meanwhile the man who acted as ths
agent. Colonel Beth It Whlteley, and th
mnn who hands tha Pension Mutual I.lfs
Insuranco Company In which the Insurnncs
was carried, Lyndon D. Wood, art hurllns
accusations of misrepresentation and fraud,
respectively, at each ofher, and threats "t
sua" are being repented In countless)
number.
Continued on 1'ase four. Column l-'aur
M'NICHOL COMPANY
SUBWAY BID LOWEST
Will Obtain Contract for Second
Division of Work Uniler
City Hall
Senator McNIchol's Ke stone State Con
structlon Company was the low bidder to
day for the second contract for Ilroad
street subway work under City Hall When
Tranlt Director Twining opened the bids at
noon today In the Hours. It was found
that only three flrm had made offers for
the work and the bids of two of these had
exceeded tha amount available for tho work
under the J6.0OO.PO0 transit loan authorized
last ear.
Tha Keystone ooncern's bid was $348,000.
Tha other two bidders were Smith, Mauser
& Maclsaac. New York, J950.000, and Pooth
& Flynn. r.td. Pitkburgh, 11.200,000
There is available for the work under ths
old loan a total pf 94$.M0 Tho contract
will be awarded In a day or two to the
Keystone Company.
This contract Is In reality a subdivision
of Contract No 161. on which tho Key.
stone State Construction Company is now
working Ths original contract for 70S
tlnsar fft of work and the pries limit was
t 000 SOS Uarly this summer when It
vvav found that It would us necessary to
rebuild tha City Halt foundat on walls at a
cost far In txesss of tit limit ot the con
tract. City Solicitor Connelly recommended
that Plrctor Twining reduce the contract
and advertise for bids for a part of It
Ths 700 linear ftst accordingly was re
duesd to 40$ feet and ths contract today
was for the remaining 295 feet t'nder ths
specifications work is to bs begun not later
than March 1 1911 but as tha He stone
Company bad already dons considerable
work bsfors ths contract was changed, it is
likely toe excavation ana contsrucuon work
wlU be carried along slraultanuly; with
ths adiolnliix twtttnwet. No. ti TtW Da-
leation ter mmmmtf (it
AMERICAN TORTURED
AND HANGED BY VILLA
Miners Tell Story-
Atrocity Band
New M
itDir
QVtOT,m'
-SJtPSjMSi J 4vHb'
nMbwa.rd
fcf fyif
Parral
ects
pray.
AK'arado
HI. PASO, Tex.. !)
an American emplojfe
Mining Company, was taursd ondiaaged
unin no was umii oy 'UaBr wnn uie
bandits entered 'Parral a fiMpJVigo, ac
cording to word brought hr rj4a by two
mining men. ' '
After re-equlpplng his army wj.th supplies
taken from Chihuahua City, Villa Is moving
again, according to reports made to United
States authorities here today It Is bslleved
ths bandit chief Is making his own head
quarters at San Andres, from which point
he Is scattering his forces In smalt bands
and directing their operations
In the last threo days a rear-gUard action
bttwten VHIUtas and Government trooiu.
tok placo south of Fresno, eight miles
southwest of Chihuahua City. The move
ments of Government troops are hampered
by lack of railway equipment, as Villa took
with him almost every available pec 0,
rolling stock. He also drove many auto,
mobiles away for the ua of his odlcers.
UnolHclaJ reports coming to mining com
panies here state that the city of Durango
was evacuated December 2 by General "Qu
vira before an attack of bandits and dis
contented members of the I'arransists gar
rlsoa. Confirmation of these reports could
not be obtained through official channels.
A Mexican Central freight train was held
"1J94 i9Ml yesterday by bandlu,
'wj-jiHpi m"m juvuv. ai uaiMge, I?Ul4!y
!i'UJi mm uk swt unutua.
SI MH St JV-1.J- J- A-.AS1 . .X
JMS5B V YMV wvwe
IJ. AND 0. YARD AT- BRUNSWICK DESTROYED
i-'Iti:r)i:ilICK, Mil, Ueo. 7. Tho Ilaltlmoro nnd Ohio transfer sheds nnd nit
tecorils nt Ilrunswlck yard wero destroyed by flro today. The Iosm Is several hundred
thousand dollars.
POPE CONFERS RED HATS ON NEW CARDINALS
HOME-:, Dec. 7. A public consistory was held at the Vatican today. Pope Hone
diet XV conferred red hats upon tho ten now cardlnuls created at Ujo secret con
sistory several days ago The ceremonies took placo In the Hall of lieatlflcatlon
in the presence of soveral thousand persons. The Pnpo biassed the assemblage.
WILL INTRODUCE VOTE PROBE RESOLUTION
WASHINGTON, Dec. 7. Positive announcement vvua mada by Senator Kern,
of Indiana, Democratic leader, that a resolution would be Introduced for a thorough
probo of election fiauds and thu expenditure of vast sums of money In Indiana,
Ohio and West Virginia, He added that the icsolutlon would bo adopted without
doubt, and that it might call for a probe cither by a special committee or the
Committee on Elections.
AVERAGE PRICE OF STEEL, $70 LONG TON, A RECORD
NKW OHK. Doc. 7. Steel prices have set another high average, reaohlng
more thun $70 a long ton for the ilrst tlma In history, Tho price level of eight
leading products now Is 170 S3. A week ago the average was (69.83.
JERSEY FARMERS TO SUPPORT LOCAL OPTION BILL
ATLANTIC CITY, Pec. 7- Jilghteen thousand Jersey funnera, their wives ttnd
their sons were pledgsd to support the fight to procure the enactment of a local
option bill ut the coming session of the Legislature In resolution adopted here
today by the State Orange. Worthy Master George W F. Gaunt, u State Senator
from Gloucester County, will introduce the bill, which proposes to permit eyery city,
town and village in tne tjtaie to vote wnetner it snail do wet or dry.
FEDERAL LOAN BANKS TO MAKE 100,000,000 BOND ISSUE
WASHINGTON, Dec. 7. The Federal farm loan banks will declare a $100,000,000
bond Issue. It was learned today. The issue will be made shortly after the new banks
open their doors for business, probabl) during February. -?he bonds wilt be issued
In denominations of from (26 to (1000 and will bear between 4 and 5 per cent Interest
LITTLE GIRL PLAYS WITH MATCHES; DIES FROM BURNS
Five-year-old Alllna Gust a, of 4913 Kershaw street, died in the West Phila
delphia. Hpmeopathlo Hospital from burns received when her dress Jught lira
whlla she was nlavtnc with matches. The siuttf toother "'-" in maaihMnr
I tb Ux With a.Uku&at. but mi, twftcp tfea t&le girl wa fftjy bpcjtwl.
iUl TETTK77' rST -S" LH "SSL? TwSl SXi flu, or tk. rolled U iMU-irtW . TM k-
WMil'If lgf 4frttfiUJa 81 3 ,-ITTS """ "" " '" ' "--I anartens mm W mm C tel
smSStmiSAMkM ITin. ' iairiaMr.-citeatwWVitJS.'Pu
SKKS SUFFRAGE ISSUE
IN PEACE CONVENTION
Dr. Shaw Tells Harriaburff
Women Their Rights Will
Be Demanded
-
WILL NOT BEAR GAGGING
- HAUItlRnuno, Deo. 7. -Mrs. Lymsn D.
Gilbert this afternoon entertained Dr. Anns,
Howard .Shaw at a tea, during which tha
honorary national president of the suffra
gists addressed suffrage workers.
I)r Hliaw aroused her auditors to ft
high pitch of enthusiasm when she asserted
that woman's Voice would ba heard In tha
great peace council which will make terms
ending the great war.
This statement was mads In reply to
a query concerning the tlmo and placo of
tho ntfi International Woman Suffrage Con
ventlon. She announced that tho convention
would be delayed until tho war had; waned
und would meet nt tho same tlmo and place,
where ths representatives of the various
nations nriange peace The Woman's Peace
party, she also said, would meet at the
same time nnd place Doctor Shaw vvll
be one of tho delegates representing the
United Htatcs at the International Suffrage , '
Convention
"Woineri have given too much," Doctor
Shaw declared, ''to their nations during
time of strife, 'and before that to civ Mira
tion, to tolerate a iieace In which their
rights art not considered directly as voiced
by themselves,"
One of thes "rights." Doctor Shaw as.
serted, Is the privilege and responsibility
connected with enfranchisement which will
Insure women, equally with men. a volee
In the governments under which thsy live, f
and which declare wars, which can ba
waged only through the patriotism of
women as well as men.
"To this end." she continued, "suffragists
from f-ery quarter of ths glob will do- -.
maud of the Peace Council the earliest
possible granting of suffrage and other
progressive measures, which will Insure
women that to which thsy ever and always
have been and will be entitled, an equality
In all things, which will make, because
they wljl be better women, a bettir race."
Pittsburgh's City Treasurer Dead
PITTHBVRaH. Pa. Deo T Harry MO
ton La ndls. City Treasurer, died this nwrsw
'ng after a long illueae from hwirt dlfc.
He was (be second member ot Mayer Ant.
strong's aUat to die wltMn iHiitr-afct
Aout and the fourth la Axmetreag s rta-in
H. litter t m mmrmk
rvtssss. saente. visa JtsmjOJ tnnimrnir
'-Wtr " "h --' f p - - - -
m- -
