I Wonder What??
The T-D Information Bureau
Has the Answer
pdjnumii Srimes-Sispaid]
0
o
i've done Mr
XMA5 SHOPPING.
/VA I'?T YOU 7*
15
oa vj; ,
66th YEAR
v()M, )ii; cm
m >iiiKit :i4a
RICHMOND, VA., THURSDAY, DECEMBER 7, 191(1.?TWELVE PACES. T'!K" ?CLEAR
PRICE, TWO CENTS
BUKHAREST WON BY TEUTONIC ALLIES;
LLOYD GEORGE TO FORM NEW MINISTRY
Birth of New Government
Creates Additional Fac
tional Differences.
PARTY LEADERS CALLED
TO CONFERENCE BY KING
Inference Most Natural One
That He Tries to Arrange
a Reconciliation.
I.ATKST >11XISTItV COAMTIOX
Announcement hillow- Day of In
Irnso Susppnso and Intcr^i
Throughout ? 'uunlry.
I Itv As">. l.ltr l I'tf-v 1
I.' iNDON", Pci'pmlwr Dnvid Lloyd
' !eor;;e has overthrown the Asqulth
Cabinet, an'I will become Prim" Min
ister himself. The new government
will be coal I I inn. like ill" old one. inn
probably williuut the sarnn measure!
of harmonious support which si?tended
the formation of the tirst coalition irov
ernment, because It.- birth ha* cr'ati"!
additional factional differen
Thi? result has enwnr'-'l from an
other day of active and hurried party
conferences jind a <!av <.f intense mis
pen.se and Interest throughout the
< ountry.
There was a prospect this afternoon
that the personal ollices <-f the Kinu
tniuht solve the situation. and ninrv
thought that the Asquith regime might
he continued. The Kinu vailed the
party leaders to MucklnKhaut I'ala-e
and conferred with them for more than
an hour. Mr. Asqulth and Lloyd
< leorge. of the Liberals: Mr. Law and
Mr. Halfour. of the Colonists. and Mr
Henderaon. of the Labor part;-, were
with the ffuvctcfgn
It is many years sin e a British ruler1
assembled the r^preMiil at Ives of tin
different factions f:ice tn face when
they had shown th"ins?l\es una Id'' t"
???tile their difliculti"s.
kim. ritoii \ m.\ 'IIIIKI) in
Aiin\M.r. iti-:< iim ii.i\iii?\
Whatever passed tn council is h?-ld
sr.-ret, hut tiio inference that t > ? ?? KIiir
tried to arrange a reconciliation ap
t-ears- a most natural one. The live
statesmen departed separately, four in
their motor ? .its. ami the workirigmen's
spokesman afoot.
Afterwards the Kinu gave an audi
ence to Honar I.aw. who declined to
undertake ih*. formation of a new min
istry, and then to I.loyd ''.eorirc, who
accepted ttie responsibility as e\.-r>
one anticipated he would if the op
portunity raiije to him.
The official announcement to-niaht
that Lloyd ijeorge had undertaken th>
task, with the c.t-oper.ition of Hona;
Law. was a not i ti.-a t ion Dial the new
povcrnment would he coalition. \nj
|iarty government would he impossible, j
because neither the Colonists nor ilio
Liberals lia\e a tnajorit> in the House j
.?f Commons; either one must attach!
the Irish Nationali.- ts or the l.aboriter
to itself to command a majority. The
Nationalists list re refused to partici
pate in the government until home |
i ule becomes established. The l.a- j
horttes are sworn enemies to Lloydj
i!eorge because t hey resent his acciisa- '
tions that the workingmen have put
thpir personal interests above the na
tional Interests at times during the {
war.
< iiA\t;i: Mi'.ANs sntAi'i'ivi;
ok Tin: 1:1,DK.it statk?>mi:n
The. country awaits the rising of the
curtain on the next ad of this his
torical and remarkable crisis with an
expectancy which never surrounded
the birth throes" of any previous rov
crnment. The T.loyd tJeorue ministry
means the direction of the war by a
dictatorship in the form of an inner
council of the Cabinet, and means the ,
scrapping: of those elder statesmen,
whose supremacy in the councils of
the nation, until they choose' to with-i
draw from the scene voluntarily, has'
always heretofore been regarded l?v (
the Rritish people as a matter of
course.
Mr. Asquith. Mr. Halfour. Viscount
<"?rcy and I.ord I,ansdowne "must go."
the Lloyd Ueorge press has been cry
in fr, Hut their croing will be attended
by widespread misgivings among the
people.
I.loyd George is committed to the
formation of a war council, and '.lie
membership of that dictatorship will
he the most important and crucial
work he will have. Andrew Honar j
Law. the Karl of Derby and Sir lal- !
ward Parson, all of them Conserva-j
lives, are most talked of. Honar I,aw
and Lord Derby would be generally
approved, but Sir lid ward Carson has j
many critics. ?
wii'i' in-: nuroMK mk.miikii
ok owx WAlt toi xrn.f
The new Premier is confronted with j
the problem whether he will become!
a member of his own war council. His
scheme for the council, which he pre
sented to Premier Asquith as the price
of his continuance of the. Asquith ?
Cabinet, excluded the. Premier on tliej
ground that the general duties of the '
oflico did not leave time for daily ses? i
sions. The question whether Lord !
~~ (Continued on SSccond Page.)
Bryan Lists Reforms
He Wants Democra tic
Party to Accomplish
i) \ \ 11) 1.1.in it <;i;on?.i:
TO BE MfiJORITY LEADER
Virginian KokhmImI as Host t^nali
fiod Mini in f??r
This I Visit ion.
THOMAS I'HKSIHKNT I'KO TKM
Saiilshury. of llelawiirr, i? Ho Sec
r?*tar> uf ('minis?These Selec
tions Tentatively AhihtiI On by
I liMiiMrral ic Mciiiliors.
j S pec in ! ? ?> TIk Tltn?- I?i1 ?.?t ?? 11. |
WASIIINCT" I>?.-ember -Son
;il?r Thomas S. Mart t>. oT Virtini.i.
will lie m;i Jt>rilleader: Senator
Charles S Thomas. of Colorado. w ill
be president pro li'tntmro, and Sfn
nior Wilbitd Saulsbury. of I'elaware,
will secretary of the caucus. in
the, i .u organization "f the Senate
majority, necordimr ?<? a tentative*
:t^i c iui'Mi reached I? y Homocratlc
ni'MnliiTS of that body tn-dav.
All i* tci I;:i\ ?? not been hamion
!7.. ?l tt;>f>i> thi? |i!an. Inn there seem?
to I" little 1 ikellhood n?>w that it will
!>?? rlianuO'1. Senator Saulsbury. who
is ,t candidal*- for the presidency pro
tempore. is n 't alt?tr4't1i?r satisfied to
ii-tnaiti secretary of the caucus. neither ;
arc hi.- f r i r??l I"ii the iliani'fs ar<
now that th??> will be out numbered
wlion the t'me come.- to act.
The tentative agreement was reached
wlit-ii it !??*?? ??* known this afternoon
that Senator Walsh, of Montana, who
1 ? tho \Vi!::ot? campaign iti the West,
was not now ambitious to fill any of
tho honorary posts in tho Senate or
ganization. and when it was found that
tlio Saulsbury streneth was n<">t enough
to outvote, that of tin* West.
Senator Martin has b*en anreed upon
for the tiot.r leadership on the ground
that he is the best-ipialiticii man in the
Senate for the position. lie was
minority leader .inst prior to the cap- :
tnre of the Senate by tiie I.Vmocra t s.
When the Wilson administration bi-jtan
A fight was made against the Virginian
b\ the younger members of the l?eino
cratic rations. They mustered enough
votes to defeat him. Martin took his
defeat smilingly. and has gone right
along supporting the administration
and party's policies as though he had
:.ot been superseded. These are some
of the reasons why the South will
insist upon reinstating Senator Martin
in the tloor leadership.
CONCUKSH Tl IC\S VTTK\TI(?\
TO l,i:?;lSI.A'l'l\ K WOIIK
WASIIIXOTOX. Heoember (I.?Con- I
gress. having heard President "Wilson i
outline in his annual address yesterday j
the program of legislation lie hopes
to see enacted in the short session, to
day turned its attention to legislative
work. In both Mouse and Senate the
1 'resident's recomniendat ions, part icn
larlv for railroad legislation, were 1 ?
ing closely scrul.iniaed.
A bill embodying the President's
suggestions for railroad legislation has
been prepared by Chairman Adamson.
of the House Commerce I'diiimiitee for j
submission as *toott as Attorney-t5en
eral Ciregory passes on its eonstitn
tionality and Chairman New land ?? of
the Senate Commerce Committee. hns
arranged tr. take up the proposed lof -
islation at a committee meeting on
r'riday. v.
Chairman Henry, of the House Rules
Committee, has an engagement to con
ler with the President regarding rule-.t
to expedite railroad and other legisla
tion through the House.
Senator Smith, of South Carolina,
chairman of the Immigration Commit
tee. announced to-day that if the cor
rupt practice bill now before the Sen
ate develops prolonged discussion, he
will move to displace it with the im
migration hill.
Senator Smith said it was th'- geu
(Cuiillnuvd on Sccond Page.j
Nation-lV icle Prohibition
Moat Important?Favors
IVoman Suffrage and
O pposes M iIitar ism.
IJl . A -.-??? hi ? ?mj I'r**|
WA.SII IN'iTuN, llcn'inliff r.r
forins to which ho hopes to commit
111-- I >?-!iin< i.?11 ? party and to ?<??? ac
coinpiishod i1111ti I Ik- next four years
were outlined to-night l.v William
Jennings Bryan a dinner given in
Ills honor Iiy admirers among iJeino
cralir officials and members of Con
gress. Nation-wide prohibition he
urged as mo.st important, ami other
reforms on lii.s list included Ionian
suffrage by l-v-ilcral ainvndmcnt, elec
tion of the President l>y direct popular
vote and i-|)tiii(tfs to make the Consti
tution more easily amendable.
In addition to his program to he ad
vocated, .Mr. Bryan iravc a proinineui
pla'-e to two things ii<- proposes to
light: the effort to give the Federal
government exclusive control over
railroad regulation and the "menace
of militarism" presented hy proposals
for universal service.
speech s lauding Mr. Bryan, and
particularly his work f??r the party
during the campaign just won, were
mad<- I?v many of the diners, and a
letter h.is lead from President Wilson,
with whom 'it*- former secretary and
Mrs. Bryan had lunched during the
day. The President wrote:
"Will you not l>e kind enough tv
?onvey njy v.ry cordial greetings to'
Mr. Bryan and to those who are as
sembled to do him honor at the dinner
on Wednesday evening? In the recent
campaign no one rendered more un
selfish service than Mr. Bryan, and I
am happy to know that this dinner
expresses tiie genuine admiration of
.il! democrats for him.
"May I not hy these means convey
to him my warmest congratulations
and best wishes for his continued
health ami happine: > 7"
I'OI TO TWO TIIIM.S
Tiivr sihm i.ii in-: piii-:\ f.ntkii
"I shall take v.dvantage of the op
:-ori;mity which this dinner affords."
said Mr. Bryan, "to point out a few
of tin1 issues whh-h seejn to me within
the range of a >mplishment during
tiie next four years. Hut before taking
up the things which should be'secured,
it is worth while to consider for a
moment two tilings that should be
prevented.
"An effort is now being mad*' b\
the raiiroads to .-ecure legislation, and.
necessary, a constitutional an end
meiit. depriving the States of all regu
lative power "\?r them, and giving to
Congress es elusi ve control over rail
road regulation. The consolidation of
all railroad legislation at Washington
would not only transfer to the national
capital an amount of work which
would overwhelm the national authori
ties-. and. therefore, decrease the elllei
eney of Federal supervision, but it
would bring a railroad influence into
the election of every Congressman and
every Senator, as well as intensify the
railroads' interest in presidential cam
paigns.
"It would do more than tl\at. It
would practically obliterate State
lines, and lead to a centralization
which u oilhI threaten the very exist
ence of our dual form of government.
"We cannot afford to shut our eves
to the menace of militarism as ij is
now presented in concrete form. A
large increase in the number of army
and navy officers drawing salaries for
lile and trained in a profession which
teaches reliance upon the steel blade,
rather than upon the sword of truth,
tends to substitute false standards of
honor fot the more peaceful stand
ards that prevail among the producers
of wealth.
si pi?out run I'liiirosii,
OF I" XI VKItSA l< MOIIVK K
"It is not unnatural that the mag
nifying ot the profession of arms
should give support to the proposal
for universal military service. .1 sys
tem which is not only unnecessary, but
the adoption of whkh'could not fail
to breed that military spirit which
has contributed so largely to the en
cotirarenie?t of war in other lands."
To inform the voters - of questions
under consideration at ati election. Mr.
Bryan proposed the publication of a
government bulletin, with space di
vided among political parties according
to voting Strength, lie also suggested
that newspapers, in return for the
mailing privileges, should be required
to give certain space for matter the
government desires published.
"The election has shown us the
clumsiness of our electoral college and
the dangers which attend this method
of election." he continued.
"Some plan should be devised by
which the voters can vote directly for
the President."
The speaker said he believed if the
Constitution were more easily amenda
ble the rule of the people would be
more secure, lie suggested thnt when
a majority of hotli houses In two nuc
f Continued on Third Page.}
BAI.TIMOKK BY BOAT
At *11 seasons the moat delightful -water
trip in America. $2.54 one way: $<.00 round
triu. . YORK IlIVER LINE.?Adv.
I
More Than 1.500 Women Pack
Mass-Meeting in Protest
Against High Prices.
BAN ON EGGS AND TURKEYS
Richmond Housewives Unite to
Abjure These Commodities
for Two Weeks.
i'loduinjr their support of th" boy
cotts declared b> the Uichniond House
wiv"k' I.'HUW acainst tt,rkey? and
1 L'C." for a period ..f (??,, ? begin
ning tn-niorrow moraine. fully l.!iO?
!l!<alininn'l women from nil walks -if
life packed Hie auditorium .if ?||o .lr.hn
Mhi shall IllKh School Itu hliiiK yPk(M..
day afternoon. and unite) in the move
ment to force downward ??>.- ,.-evail
Inu lilcli prices ?.f these t?? ,.,.inmo.l|.
ties. I he muss-meet int; vt n.ngly i :i -
domed the absolute boycott. from
which onl> children and Invalids are
exempted, as the only efjwtu.. instru
ment in the flcht to break t?? back
bone of the high markets
At the out set or the meeting it wa?
.disclaimed that any attempt was being?
made to injure the retail rnvrchantx of
Uiehtnond. who are charging only
legitimate profits for the eommoditje.<.
The boycotts, it was pointed out. were
directed against large cold storage
? ompanies of the Middle West, who
?'!!??? charged with helntr responsible
a large decree for the prevailing ah
normal price?*.
The mass-meeting was !.. have been
held in the hull ..f the House ..f Z?el.
gates :.f ihe State Capitol Bulldinc.
hut lonu before the time for the meet
ing it was evident that the hall won I 1
not accommodate the crowd. The
meeting was transferred t.. the sehool
auditorium, which, with Its seating ca
pacity of 1,400 people, was taxed to its
capacity. .Standing room for a tint,
was at a premium. The meeting was
l>y far the largest held in lllchniond
m recctil months, reflecting the tre
mendous interest in the problem thai
the consumers are trying to solve.
ritKsuiKvr ok iioi mkwivi?:s
TKI.I.S OK M)ltKOI,l\ \ | TIO \
Mrs. II. <Whitehead, of Norfolk,
president of th:- Housewives' l.eague of
that city n nd State chairman of the
Housewives' l.enque' of Virginia, pre
sided. She explained the action taken
by tiie consumers of Norfolk, which
i esuit r>,i , n the reduction of prices on
turkeys and eggs. She told the women
"f Richmond that they had the power
in their hands at least to partially re
lieve the situation.
"There is no question of the good
that can he done by boycotts," she
said, "hut these will alTord only tem
porary relief, and the consumer must
be educated to the use of substitutes
for many commodities that are. selling
at abnormal oriees. We must not as
sume that there is no reason for the
hiali cost of li vine*, for tremendous
UUaiithies of foodstuffs are being ex
ported. and we are lj\jnc in a period
ci fictit-.-'us prosperity, due to the war.
1- >reivu buyers are in this country
willing to pay any price for the com
modities they need, and it i*. too much
to expect that those people in this
<ountry that can fill their wants will
slot rio so.
"; tiere has been great discussion of
?Mill:: rtroes against the exportation of
foo?.stuffs, but I do not think that we
have reached the state where such a
tottse would be wise. Many people
are in favor of an embargo against
wli at. but if such action was taken
i >vouId qui-'kly .'plead to other eotn
1 '"I ties, and that would mean starva
tion for !' f people of Kurope. That
wou'd re-,It in -real opposition in
other countries, probably resulting in
l.arni -<? this country, and in the end
the people of the l'nit.ed States, rather
thai, countenance tile starvation of
woir?.n and chibiren. would fit out
relief ships.'
so mi-: wi-'.iti-: \ imhikiii-:\si\i-:
MUM I' Tll I'M It lit N|tAM,s
.X vein Of humor was injected by the
fact that, no matter how much boy
cotts were favored by the Housewives,
they raised dnuh's as to whether or
l ot such action would ho improved b\
their husbands. Speakers told of how
tor y.-ars they had always giver, their
hm bands cuss for breakfast. ai:d one
p. alter. having .-topped using eygs
some weeks ago. said that her hush.i-id
was suffering from a boll r,n his ne-k,
She iomarkod. with a smile and amid
(Contimn ?] on Third rage )
A Fireside Trip to
Argentina
Complete otlleial Information elionl
this wonderful country free to e\ery
| render of The TltnCN-l)l<ipittcli.
\ tie** publication l>y (lie I'nn
Amerleitn I nl-?n, containing, a won
derfully * I* Id account of Km ideo
graphical positions area. popnla(Ion,
principal export* mid Imports, cli
mate, physical characteristic*, etc.
To read thl* splendid booklet,
with Its authoritative text and ex
tremely fine pictures, Is like taking
a delightful Journey to a distant
land.
Kit!?:??: i-'oit tiik ASKivt:. if
VOL' WBITK TO-DAV, l\fl.OSI\?i
2-OKXT STAMP POIl III',Tlll\
POSTACJP5.
Addrens The Times-Dispatch In
formation II ii r e r u, Metropolitan
ilnnk nulldlng, Washington, 1). f.
Getting What's Coming to Him
/
PLAN NATION-WIDE PROBE
OF HIGH COST OF LIVING
From President Wilson Down. Olli
rials I5rj?in to Cope in K.arnest
Witli Problems Presented.
SMMKC'T NOW IP IN COXCKKKK
Do/.en Speeches Made in llouse and
Several Resolutions Proposing In
(|iiiries Introduced and deferred
(?? <'oniinittres Witliout Discussion.
I Rv .\swn'lat<"1 Pri"s;<J
WASIIIXi ITON", I (5.?Tin*
1-Vdoral investigation r.f the high cost
of living began to-dny t?> take definite
f<?rm. with ln(llontI">ns: ii will e\
!. r<l ii> < v* ry ion of the Ciiited
States. Vol only is ii swi'ipinj in
f|<iirv into ihf i'iilines ??f the soaring
? lists nf food:-! uffs ronfmpliilH. l>ut
iho rci'oni pinch In the coal supply ;nnl
its resultant price advances also may
he made the subject of a hroad in
vest iga t ion.
l-'rom ('resident Wilson ?lown. of
ticials began to cope in earnest with
the problems presented l?y the situa
tion. Tic- President took tinder con
sideration preliminary reports which,
with others vet to com?>, will form the
has is for reconi luenda I ions he may
make to < *ongress
A dozen speeches on the subject were
made in the lloiis?\ and several resolu
tions. proposing inquiries. were inlro
dticerl These were referred to com
mittees without discussion, most of
them going to the Interstate and l*'or
eicu I'omuierce I *o|nill i 11 ee. of which
liopresontative Adatnson, who is op*
: posed to embargoes, is the chairman.
Popart meat of Justice otlicinls con
ferred with members of the Federal
Trade Commission and with Pistricf
Attorney Anderson. of Koston. ? in
charge of the dr pnrtment's investiga
tion. and hero to formulate a definite
plan of conducting; the nation-wide jn
, quiry. About flt'tv picked investigators
j of the department's bureau of invos
' titration were reported to be at work
throughout th* untry. gathering data
v hich will determine the Attorney- j
? ienorHl's course of action.
i. c. r. to iu-: \skkii koit i?\t\
on <iiiimii:m' or kooiisti ri?*s
t
The Interstate Commerce ?'ontmisslon
i probably will be called upon to aid
j by furnishing data relative to sliip
? monts of foodstuffs, and Mr. Anderson
will confer with commission otlicials
before his depart tire. < Irani! jury in
v?sticalion at New Vork or Chicago
or both are said to be still under con*
siderat ion.
With the program still in process of
formation, there were increasing in
dications that otlicials were consider
ing the situation from three angles.
iui m rly:
I. Petormination of the actual causes
of the rapid rise in foodstuffs and coal. 1
whether it was due to natural economi
cal laws, to the unwarranted action of
individual dealers and producers in ad
vancing prices, or whether there exist
agreements among groups of dealers
or producers to boost prices
Vigorous prosecution, of persons
or linns, if any. who by violation of
existing laws in making agreements
to raise prices, or otherwise have con
tributed to the upward trend of prices
Knactriieut of legislation to remed\
the present situation and to prevent
it a rocurrenci
The situation Is now iu the first of
these stages. Pepartineut of Justice
officials have called upon the Federal
Trade Commission for co-operation, and
were promised all data which the com
mission has bearing on the situation
j and aid in obtaining additional infor
mation.
Department otlicials .ue also under
stood to be considering the advlsahll
I Ity of investigating various food com-j
hlnntloiiK and corporations with a view
to ascertaining by what practices the
I market values of foodstuffs dealt in by
the bodies are determined. An- Inquiry
| (Continued on Third Paste.) [
WINTER HOLDS WESTERN
FRONTS IN ITS IG1 GBftSP
Km' M(iit Tluin Week Weiither Tem
porarily <'hocks Any Attempt
at Operations.
ONLY AltTI J.LKKV IS AI'TIVK
(inns Iveep Hnnimerinp Away Whero
I'.neiny Is Likely to lit* Itusy?Mat
tie in Fug Is Weirdly Mysterious
mid I'iiraniiy.
11 Vpyrtjjlit. 1 !??- 11.As^rti'taled Press. |
WITII Till-: UK1TISII A1SMV IN
KltANCK. December ? (via l.ondon.J
|ii>i'i>inlinr ??.-?Winter, cold. pray and
bleak. lias held ?I?r> n-cstorn battle
fronts in Its ioy grnsn for more than
a w^i'k now. iiml lias t^iiipuriiiily
checked any attempt on cither side at
? ?pera t ions. except I he usual daily
"strafing" of exchange of artillery
ti re.
For the past seven days there lias
been a thick mist, lint through this
gray murk the puns kept hatnmerinp j
nwiiv, liarrassinsr post roads and rail
neads or any other ''register d" place
where tlie enemy was likely t.i be
Inisy.
A l'ii t tie in tln> f tin is a weirdly
mysterious and uncanny affair. A
roar, a flash of red flame, and out into
the leaden mist shrieks a shell on its
w'-ll-intend-d mission of death and
? lesi fiii'l (on.
"This i- where it should fall." re
marks tlie flintier as lie points to a
man with a wtir of coin passes. "We
will put anot her* just over here," and
liini: poes tli'- pun apart).
(if.HMWS HO M It A It III M?
IIKt llNTId litlST POSITION
Tlie iSermans have tieen homharditip
? ?lie of Mieir reeentlv lost positions, and
vneii "straOng" calls fo|- a reply. even i
if tlie e-ivelolMim fop t?ermits one to
see si-a reel v lievoml tlie urim mtizvsle
? if tli<- plant trnn its.-if
I'nder tlie nrole'-rimr canopy of fop.
tlie Associated | ??????.? correspondent
sonpht to explore tin- pulverized ritins
??f what was once th" thrivini' little
t-'vencli vill:? ire of Beaumont-Hamcl.
i ifl'cers and *ronimies coming from that
?Mrectirm save every assurance that all
was cnict within, so the "otor car
oroceeded until a srlios'lv whine the
imnenetrnhlc "Umiiii overhead t?>ld its
own story. The ilailv shelling had
bee nti.
To o> e only casualli ueonVnted with
the noises of a liattle Held there is i
nlwavs bewilderment as to which are
?lie "friendlv" shells point? o? ev to
wards the enemy and which are 'hi;;
very unfriendly visitors cominp over,
to hurst in i wild. destroying fury, i
"*o intense was the bombardment at ;
one time, v 1th the shells rus'iimr in
riTnii. il.- directions overhead, that the
f'init'e I sounds became like the sinv
inc >'f st.irni winds
A striking picture >11 the fo<; was
that ???" i I ttlc Knelish hit rial n irtv at
tipwl' -made prave. A chaplain In
I h'iki was readitip the scrvlc.' for the
?teji'l. while Tommies stood ha???he-,ded
beside the bodies >>f several of their
?omrades who, being buried where thev
fell, fciiti'l a final resting place in the
irroiin.l more hallowed to t1'- rial sol
d:er than Westminster itself
i.itti.i: I'tirn si:i:n>
\i>i.^ ti.o.sr. \ mi i>i:t\< iii:i>
Sadk alone and detached. the little
party seemed, and all the whle cross
currents -if shells were swishing and
whining through the overhanging mist
in the strangest of requiem chants.
Oddly enough, foggy and mist> d.i\s
are generally succeeded b\ beautiful
starlit frosty nights, and the clearest
iitmosphere. and the guns are always
heard grumbling and harking through
the crystal darkness. With the com
ing of d.vwn, however, the mists sweep
in again front the sen, and limit the
hatteTlea once more to "firlnc by the
map." i
Ploechti, Important Rail
way Junction Town,
Also Is Taken.
NO DETAILS CONCERNING
, CLIMAX OF GREAT DRIVE
Marks Culmination of One of
Most Brilliantly Executed
Feats of Great War.
FATK \i:VKK WAS IN DOIBT
(ry < rushed in Nut-Criirker
Fashion .Made Familiar by fJer
mans During This Conflict.
I Hv A asocial oil Pri's.". 1
P.uk barest. the capital of RoumunU.
is in the liarnls of the forces of the
oen trn 1 powers.
Kxactly 100 flays after the declara
(10 of war l?y Rouniania against them
finds the Teutonic allies in control of
ahont .10,000 square miles of Roumanian'
territory?virtually one-half of the
kingdom?running from the Transyl
vanlan Alps northwest of tlie capital
to tlio Danube Mouth of it. an.l a larjre
part of Pobrudja. and probably still
on the heels of the rctroatin? Russian
and U.nttnanian armies which liavo been
endeavoring to hold them back.
Simultaneously with the announce
n,ent of the fall of P.ukharest came tho
news .,f the capture ,,f the important
railroad junction of Ploechti. north of
the capital, the conquest of which
Places ir the .lands of the invaders the.
the last railroad in the west, and wives
to them the head of the line running
northward to Jassy, where the capital
of Uoiiinaula is now situated.
-N'o details have as yet come through
? onccrniim the climax to the K-reat
drive uf the armies of Uoneral von
1* a I ken hay ii and Kield Marshal von
Mackeiisen. or whether the Roumanians
an.I Russians succeeded entirely in
making their escape behind the Huk
harej-t h?o. Previous to the annouiicc
1,10 rapture of Hukliarest and
of Plc-.hli, unotllcial ad vires had indi
cated that four divisions of the dc
fenders were. ,n haxardous position
In the region due u est of Rukliarvst
;<<"1 m daiurer of beiim enveloped.
W itli the fall of i.iikharest the cen
tral powers are now in possession of
four capitals of entente allied states
iVU<in,ie,S "^Iprade a net
it i."si w airiAMvr.
MMF.TS WITH I.ITTI.K SICCKSS
the north west, in the Carpathian
' no:,r Mukowin.-I frontier, and
" '"'V Mo'davia front, the Russian
UrK"n ? diversiftn apainst
'?? ^'1 vance into Rouniaillil,
i <iientlx is meeting: with little suc
'?'?ss |? ,,lf> rpaihians west of Jab
ma tza. the Russians ;l heiK|,t,
but ater we,, .shell.,, ttfr tho positlo?
' ,h', "''""la ns. To the south thev
,in to lll0 sct.on;,
... r ? c r i na n defenses in the
Irotus Valley. but here were held by
N.rt h/f M|'| K f,0m fUr,,,or ??'vunco.
Nor I, of .he ,,ltllz Pavs U|)(1 BO|),h
'f iirsahely the A ust ro-(icr
mans took positions from ,he *
AddiMona! r northe;|Jll
of l.udimrtsa. in Serbia, have been
caP ured by ,?e Serbs from .he p.ul- '
<'i!oiii'l<? u- ' ''ecordiiifj to tho
?"ik- Uar ? '(lice. While the Ru|.
'"^Ported by R.plin to have
. 'le V,P Ser's fo.n positions mar
is hi i rn!'7''' A ',C,,Vy ^onibardment
'? in f.i o_ ress north of Mo,,astir.
t.erinans have asrah. essayed a
. M intense attack in the \>r.
' "f"'?r* ':,lln "billy i, o? the
court! f-motis hill :tn,. IUf.lr Avo.
A-.-onlin? ,o Mar's. ?,e attack
P-i'tly successful. ?lfe Germans ?aiit
r*n-, ,n *?'nr ???" advanced
I Ven h f ""1' ' ?t herwise on the
there have been onlv
bonibardine us and operations bv raid
'ittr pa !*i les.
i.i the Austin-Italian and Russian
the.itors the biff .,rr <loj|iJ?
., ?ro:,'*f Portion o- the work. Th?
.uss'. "s have heaxil . shelled ih
? uvka rejc.on in Galicia.
' *'"i'i in: or niKn\iti;sT
oi'i'H i \ i,i^ x N vorxenn
..... . 'Bv A;so,>"ted Press.l
jie. ember ' by Sayvil|e>.
Mukhar, st. capital of Rounmnla. has
'? ' " '"aptured. ,t was officially an
tiuiin.'.fl I..-day.
I'loeehti. the -important railuav June
tion town, t l,irty..si\ miIeS northwest
"f Bukhnrest. also has by. t, taken.
>?vi\ II \ II. \\ \ > |(I\K
<?!?* IIKTIIKAT IS (TT OPl^
The capture of I'loecfili. on the mnln
in11w ay line, runninp north from Bukh
arest, cuts the r?ain ,-ailwav lln?. of
retreat for the Roumanian ar.nie?
operating in the Hukhar-st r^ifion.
Tlu- official statement d.^s not In
,0 whether the entry of thf T-U
tonic forces into Hukharest
loechti was simultaneous. The <????
ture f.f Ploechti before that of th?
capital would be fnr more serious f<v|>
the Roumanians. Many military ob
servers looked for the RoumiinlanB not
to attempt a def-m*. of th? capital
to th? last, fxpectlns An evacuation to
