THE ARIZONA REPUBLICAN
AN INDEPENDENT PROGRESSIVE JOURNAL
TWENTY-SEVENTH YEAR
12 PAGES
PHOENIX, ARIZONA, THURSDAY MORNING, DECEMBER 7, 1916
12 PAGES
VOL. XXVII., NO. 202
OFFICIAL RETURNS IN
tUK til AIL
HUNT'S FIGHT STARTS
Osbom Gives Up
Hope, But Last of
Returns Show Up
After a dav of anxious waiting. I
feverish telephoning and almost as K. Campbell as governor was insti- of foodstuffs contemplated hut the re
swearing. Secretary of State Sidney tuted ill the superior court of this cent hitch in the coal supply and Its
V. Oshorn. finnaliv ma.iaged to locate county liy Governor Hunt yesterday j resultant price advances also will he
the missing Coconino returns yester- afternoon. Governor Hunt accompanied i made, in all probability the subject of
tlav afternoon to turn over to the by his counsel. Hon. Eugene, S. Ives. broad Investigation.
jiovenor, a certificate showing the Homer It. Wood and Attorney General Officials began to cope in earnest
official returns in t he late election.
Early in the morning, it looked as dtp of the clerk and filed a statement,
if the returns were not going to show a petition for an inspection of the votes
up in spite of the earnest plea sent and a bond in the sum of $:i0. The
out Iiv Osl.orn the day before. They bondsmen of the governor are Mr.
did not come in the morning mail, i Wood and Charles It. Howe, tax cont
end the wires were soon hot in a missioner. The governor deposited the
northerly direction. Os.iorn finally , customary fee of $10 and his attorney
managed to get the Coconino super- had a short conference with Judge
visor's office, on'v to find out that the Stanford as to the next step,
clerk had gone to the Uttle Colorado; The petition brings every ballot cust
river. Osbom was rather disgusted. 1
sind made up his mind that there was ballot cast but not counted for It al-jeign commerce committee, of which
io chance to get out the returns yes- VKl, that illegal votes were cast and i Representative Adumson. who is op
terdav. In the afternoon mail, they ,,. .i f.,, ir I'amoiieii -in each and loosed to embargoes, is the chairman
showed up. and
up. and the count started
with a bang.
It took ".he governor, and
T,lst.op
Tofs about two hours to finish the
job ,
Tom Campbell lost two votes bv the
l .C h'.S, ?'n Uml 0ff,Cml
in.-nonty being thirty votes
Carl Havden. elected to congress
headed ih democratic ticket with a
grand majority or 19.470. A. A. Betts
came next with a majority over his
opponent Cloonan of ir.:if:!. Sidney P.
is'iorn was third w ith 14SSI!
Following are the official figures
k com Meu by Secretary Osbom yes
terday: OFFICIAL RESULTS
Justice Suprerre Coo-t
Ross 17.14:i;
majority, 5fi.
Tax
Baugfin ),'?.
Ross'
I
.
!
Commission
H.we 1T..104; Smalley
lO.fiiS
majority. 4,.i)l.
United States Senator
Asluirn .'US?::; Kibbey -.'l.ifil
urst's majority . 1 2
Congress
Havden "4.377: Ends 14.907,
lien's majority. 19. 470
Ash-j
Hay-
Governor
Cnmpbell 27.97-i: HuiU 27 94H Camp-
'...ic. , i I
Secretary of State
Osbom ::3.07.r; Proohaska 1S.1S2
Osborn's majority. 14.S93.
Auditor
Royre 2X.332; Merrill 19.724; Ilovce's'
majority, .'!S. " j
State Trearurer I
Johnson 27.l't; Cnmplifll 19.92".'
Johnson's majority, 7 hr.
Attorney General I
Jones 2X2IS; (just zi.fJl. Jones'
majority. 1.921. j
Superintendent of Education
Case 27.HL': Mathews 21,001, Case's
major It v. s.ssi.
Corporation Commission
R'tts 31 219 Cloonan 15.S.".; Bens'
majority. 11":.
Mine Inspector
Rolln 27.S12: v . ;r-nzie 2Mt0x; Bolv
Ins majority, 5,574. '
INITIATED MEASURES
Initiative and referendum veg IS,.
US; no IS. 981, lost by 6." votes.
Exemptions from taxation yes 14.
29(: no 1SKS2, lost bv ? vop
Prohibition -s 2d 47?.; no 17,?.79.
carried by 1 1. )94 votes.
I.e-fislatV(. iedi-f-i' llng vps 17. 7?1'
no 17.921, lost by 2.190 votes.
roci option yes i::,377; no 29.9.:4
lost by 16.r.',7 votes
Workmen's compensation law yes
1K0M; no 21.2",5. lost by 3.194.
To abolish the state senate, ye
IlK'll: no Z-l,2tl, lost by 10.655 votes.
To abolish the death penalty, yes
l.9?.t; no lt,7i4. ca'ried bv 12 votes.
To have a labor commissioner yes i
13 79S: no 21,492 lost bv 7 B94 votes i
To have a state architect, ye Id,-
"10; no 2.V-S0, lost by 15,950 votes.
Instituting a new game law. yes
no carried by 669 votes,
The law regarding absolute divorce,
ves 13 564: no 1,097. loM by 4,5:3
v"1"-
COLORADO RETURNS CANVASSED
.
rReoubllcan A. P. Leased Wire
DENVER. Dec. 6. The state can-
vassing board today completed its can-
vass of the vote cast at the present
election for all candidates, except
those for executive offices, which will
r.e made by the legislature. Certificates
..J;V"! are to be issued tomorrow,
BANDITS
Four, inetead of. five bandits,
headed east, about six miles north
of Phoenix, tired, probably hungry,
hiding by day and moving with
greatest caution under the partial
cover of the moonlit night those
were among the changing phases
of th? man-hunt of deputies and
posses for the men who robbed the
Buckeye bank Tuesday and killed
Charley Miner in making their es
cape. Early yesterday morning a farm
hand on the Howard ranch, near
the Washington school, found their
three saddles piled up in a half sec
tion field of milo maize. Over them
were thrown the blankets. Nearby
grazed three gaunt and worn
ponies. Not a human being was in
sight.
The man hastened to the ranch
and notified the sheriff's office,
which sent offioers hot foot to the
tceno. On their arrival, they found
the unmistakable traces of a camp,
but not a Mexican, a pony or a
saddle.
Knowing the gang possessed
three horses, knowing the condition
of their mounts, i and suspecting
from their state of delapidation
that the aaddles belonged to weary
wayfarers of Mexican persuasion,
officials had little hesitation in de
claring that without doubt the out
fit belonged to the robbers of the
Buckeye bank.
Buckeye m?n on the posses as
sisted in trailinq the Mexicans from
the foot of the White Tanks yester
rLLtLLllUlv;
Governor Appears
In Court, Puts Up
Bond For Recount
The contest of the election of Thorn- ;
Jones presented themselves at the of
or,, I ,.,,,,,,.i n th.. atatp nod everv
overv i.reeim-t rr each and everv roun-
'ty in the state:" also that within the ,
tarrir.p- vtou enst f,r the enn-i
testant were not counted.
The statement further sets forth
that this action was taken after a
canvass of the returns from the various
counties by the secretary of state who
found that 27.876 votes had been count
ed for the contestee and 27.!4ii of the
contestant and after the secretary had
declared the former to lie elected,
j The petition slates that the contest -'
ant cannot make up his case witho.it
an inspection of the ballots and prays
i that one inspector may be nameci :'
jhlm, one by the contestee and one ap
' pointed by the court. In the conference
! with Judge Stanford Mr. Ives desig-
natfd Homer R. Wood of Frescott as
insiector for the governor. Mr. Ives
said that he wotild appear in court this
morning at 9:30 and ask the the other
inspector may be appointed at once and
that the inspection of the ballots may
i..,i tv..-, v.
plt jt js IJ(il jj,,. ,,.lt rdnr
,will bp made by the counrt today or
until the attorneys for .Mr. t amptielt
have had an opportunity to confer and
I decide, among other thinKS on i.ie in-
set"r whom ,hey wl" designate,
o
Trevino's Troops
Left Ofjicerkss,
Go Over to Villa
"
j Republics A. P. Leaied Wire)
HI. I'ASO. Dec. 6 Mexicans arrlv
, ing from Chihuahua l ite today on an
-ore train brought wr.a them a report
thit fighting was in progress this
, morning tiwrcn Carranza and Villa
troops neer Fresno, a station on the
; Mexico Noi thwestern railway, about
, thrten miles west of I'hihuahua.
General Ozuna and Cavazos were said
to be in command of th- government
co!'ir-n. It was onsidcre i in Chihua
hua a rear g-iard action so far as
Villa was concerned.
The samr .V"xians claim that Villa
took out of I'hih'iahiia fully 4,'"0 re
cruits, of whom half were government
soldiers left officerless during the
nsnlc t int followed Villa's capture of
the artillery or. Santa Rosa hill.
Thev were ull practically impressed,
the Mexicans said, as they knew the
icnaltv for refusing to enlin was a
lc:st the loss of their ears.
MIS3 COLBY GUILTY
feouhi'ean A P. Leaied WireJ
THOMI'SON FALLS, Mont.. Iec. 6.
Miss Kdith Colby, a newspaper rt
porter, convicted today of second de-
gree murder in connection with the
shooting last September of A. C.
Thomas, a politician, is to be sentenced
Saturday. A motion for a new trial
will be argued on the same day. Forty
ballots were taken by the Jurors who
deliberated eight hours. At first, ac-
cording to the foreman of the jurv. two
voted for acquittal. Most of the bal-
lots were cast in on effort to deter-
mine the punishment as the Judge had
asked the Jurors to do. The Jury fixed
the punishment almost at the minimum
of ten to twelve years in the peniten-
tiary.
NEAR CITY
day to Peoria, where the trail was
lost. It was learned, though not
officially, that there were but four
men concerned in the affair, and
that the fourth has rejoined his
companions. The theory is that he
circled the White Tanks and joined
them in the Agua Fria bed above
the Santa Fe tracks.
Officers were stationed last night
at Glendale, Peoria and on the out
skirts of Phoenix, the city police
department supplying the latter
cohorts. A careful search will be
made through all that country be
tween Peoria and Scottsdale this
morning, and there is considersble
hope on the part of the sheriff's
office and posses that the bandits
will be overhauled.
For a time it was firmly believed
they had made their way into the
city and there was speculation over
the possibility of another street
fight.
GOT $552 CASH
Georoe P. Brown, president of the
Buckeye Valley bank, stated to The
Republican last night that the loss
in cash sustained by the institu
tion as a result of the Mexican raid
of Tuesday was $552.
MINER IS BURIED
The funeral of Charles Miner,
killed in the street fight attending
the escape of the bandits at Buck
eye Tuesday, was held at 3 o'clock
yesterday. Miner, who was the
proprietor of a small bakery and
(Continued on Page, Two)
'CTTn PJJJ
INVESTIGATION
DUCES
(Continued from Page Nine)
WASHINGTON. Dec 6. The fed
eral Investigation of the high cost of
living began today to take definite
form with indications that it would
extend to every section of the Cnited
Stales. Not only is a sweeping in-
quiry into the rause of the soaring cost
with the problems presented by the
situation. The president took under
consideration preliminary reports.
I which, with others yet to come, will
I form the basis for recommendations
he may make to congress.
A dozen speeches on the subject
were made in the house and several
resolutions, proposing Inquiries, were
introduced. These were referred to
committees without discussion, most of
them Koine to the interstate and fur
Detiartment of justice officials held
conferences today w ith members of the
federal trade commission and District
Attorney Anderson of Boston, in
charge of the department's investiga
tion and were to formulate a definite
I plan of conducting the nation-wide In-
omry. About filty investigators of the
department's bureau of Investigation
were reported to be gathering data
which will determine the attorney
general's couse of action.
Grand Jury Investigation at New
York or Chicago, or both, of the reas
ons for rising prices are still under
consideration.
With the program still in process of
formation, there were increasing indi
cations that officials were considering
the situation from three angles,
namely :
1 Determination of the actual rause
of the rapiil rise in foodstuffs and coal,
whether It was due to natural economic
laws, to the unwarranted action of In
dividual dealers and producers In ad
anoing prices or whether there exist
agreements among groups of ccaleis
or producers to boost prices.
2 Vigorous prosecutlcn of person
or firms If any who, by violation of
(Continued on lage Two)
tepublirsr A P. Leased Wire
NEW VOP.K. I'c 6 l'ostie .!'n
ficntlfn of I'liiis. H, Wax as "Oliver
frtiborne," elusive swain of a score of
oung women In this rity, was made to
day by eight persons. He has yet,
however, to face Miss line Tanzer. th"
factory worker, whose 25.0o' breach
of promise suit against James W. Os
borne, a prominent attorney, whom she
accused of courting her as "Oliver Os
borne, led to a succession of legal
proceedings and revelations of a long
chapter of sentimental adventures in
which "Oliver" played the dual role of
hero and villain. Wax has admitted
that It was he who made love to Misn
laozer.
The federal authorities probably will
not Invite Miss Tanzer to call uomi
Wax. They maintain that James W. Os
borne already has been vindicated of
(Continued on Tage Five.)
Republican A. P. Leased Wire)
KAN KKANClSCi) Dec. 6 Cnited
S'lates OistrL't Attorney John W.
I'r?Mton, who is prosecuting Kranz
Bo;,p, German lonsiil general here.
and six other defendants on the viti
ation of neutrality cases, which in
volves alleged bomb pints directed
against property and ships of the
entente ullies at Heat tie and Cana
dian ports, attempted today to er-
tabllsii a definite c nnection he
weer. the bomb conspiracies and the
local consul. It v.as the third day of
the trial. The government's star
witness. Louis J. Hmith. who Is sail
to have revealed to the government
details of the plot, whit h he Is al
leged to have undertaken at the in
stigation of the defendants, will not
re called until next week. It was an
nounced. '
Today's testimony mainly was pre
'Imlnary to showing Smith's activi
ties nt Seattle. Max Iicke. editor of
the Bortland. Oregon. Deutsche Zel
tun?. and formerly assistant secre
tary to the German house, a semi
benevolent Institution here, testified
hit he learned from Smith, of a
2.000 ion dvniimite shipment for Rus
sia and that he brought the con
sulate's attention to tie matter and
placed the consulate In touch with
Smith, other testimony developed
that Lieutenant Vilhe;m von 1'rii.
iclen. an attache of the consulate,
returned to the Oeimaii house after
Lu'ke's message hnd been recielvel
legnrdlng the dvnamite shipment, ami
ther? met Smith.
The government prosecutors suld
'bev would trv to how thnt out of
his meeting the officials of the Ger
man tonsu'atp, through c ('. Crow
'v. h neiec'lvp hl"ed Smith to do
dynamiting Jobs In the pacific north
west and In Canada for :tii(i a month
and a bonus of an eipial amount for
rn. h explosion. Crowlev is one of
the defendants In the trial.
IX lOtiiTIFi
IS MYSTERIOUS
OLIVER OSBORNE
GERMAN CONSUL IS
TRIED FOR BEING
I BOMB PLOTTER
Carranza Will
Sign Protocol is
General Opinion
fReccbl'car A, P. Leased WireJ
MEXICO CITY, Dec. 6 The gen
eral impression among high govern
ment officials here is that the protocol
drafted by the Mexican and American
commissioners at Atlantic City and
having as its object a settlement of the
points at issue between Mexico and the
United States will be signed by tleneral
Carranza, if he has not already affixed
his signature to it. It is thought there
may be slight changes in the wording
of the documents, but that the main
points of it will be agreed to by Gen
eral Carranza.
Alberto J. I'anl, one of the Mexican
commissioners, has been lelayed nere
but is to reach Queretaro tomorrow
and probably will leavp there at once
for the L'nited States with Oenernl Car
ranza s reply to the protocol. The re
ply may not be made public until it is
transmitted to the Joint conference in
Atlantic City.
It is believed here thajv- Mr. I'ani
will cross the border at i.urdo and
make a telegraphic report from there.
t'ndir instructions from members of
the commission, the attaches of both
groups have spent much of the time
since the adjournment at Atlantic City
in drafting tentative programs for fur
ther discussion. Luis Cabrera, chair
man of the Mexican commission. In an
Interview credited to him recently in a
Mexico City newspaper, referred to the
subjects to be discussed after the rati
fication of the protocol as of "minor
Importance." but the program drafted
by the American commissioners in
cludes a list of subjects regarded by
them as of great Importance.
The Americans, It is understood, will
insist upon the agreement to an ad
denda to the protcol that will serve
as a guarantee that the Carranza gov
ernment will resjiect and protect the
rights of Americans and other foreign
ers in Mexico. The Mexicans probably
will be usked to agree to the amend
ment or annulment of all decrees that
provide for confiscation of foreign
owned property, and for the readjust
ment of decrees providing virtually
prohibitory schedules of taxation on
mines and other industries.
Pressure will be brought to bear to
secure the creation of an international
tuinn commission to pass upon al
claims filed since November 2u, 1910,
the date of the beginning of the Ma
dero revolution. The Can-anxa repre
sentatives also will be asked to agree
to Joint action in Improving the sanita
tion of Mexican cities, especially cer
tain ports, and in fighting epidemics
of contagious and 'nfect:ous diseases
known to 1 prevalent In different mrt.
of Mexico. It will tie suggested that
(Continued on rge Five)
Picketing Right Is Upheld
(Republican Associated Press Leased Wire)
CHICAGO. Dec. 8. The right of the members of the Tri-City Central
Trades Council of East St. Louie to picket the plant of the American Steel
foundries was upheld today by the United States circuit court' of appeals in
a decision reversing the United States district court. The lower court was
directed to modify its decree enjoining picketing and to enter in accordance
with the ruling of the upper court.
"The right to strike for higher wages and improved conditions of labor
is too firmly established to necessitate further elucidation," the decision
said.
"In the pursuit of a lawful purpose to secure a raise in wages, picketing
may be employed as this court has held, to ascertain whom the late
employer has persuaded or attempted to persuade to accept employment
and percuausion may be used to induce them to refuse or quit employmnt.
"Undoubtedly picketing and persuasion would interfere with the plain
tiff's conduct of its business in making it more difficult for them to retain
old employes and hire new ones. Indeed the very act of striking often
seriously interferes with the free and unrestrained control of the employer's
business. But the lawfulness of the strike is not to be tested by such inci
dental effect of it.
"The order in the present case fails to recognize thie difference between
the lawful means of interfering with another's business as an incident to
the party's own right and unlawful meant adopted by the same party.
"Methods may be considered lawful even though the employer's busi
ness is interfered with because such methods are incidental to the right
of the employe which right should be and it recognized as equal to the
right of the employer."
The decision was handed down by Justices Mack, Alschuler and Evans.
Bryan Unselfish
Says President
Congratulations
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
WASHINGTON, Dec. 6. Reforms,
to which he hopes to commit the
democratic party and to see accom
plished within the next four ytars
were outlined tonight by William J.
Brvtin at a dinner given In his honor
by admirers among democratic offi
cials and members of congress. Na-llon-wlde
prohibition he urged as
most Important and other causes on
his list Included woman suffrage by
federal amendment, election of the
president by direct popular vote and
changes to make the constttutior
more easily amendable.
Mr. Bryan gave a prominent place
o two things he proposes to fight:
the effort to give the federal govern
ment exclusive control over the rail
road regulation and "the menace of
militarism." presented by lyopnsals
for universal military service.
Speeches lauding Mr. Bryan and
his work durlnn the campaign lust
won were made hy many of the din
ers, and a letU-r was read from Presi
dent Wilson, with 'whom the former
sfcretary and Mis. Bryan had lunch
ed during the day. The president
wrote:
"Will y:ii be kind enough to con
vey my very cordial greet imks to Mr.
Bryan and to those who ate as
sembled to do him honor at the dinner
on Wednesday evening? In the recent
campaign no one rendered more un
selfish service than Mr. Brvan and I
am happy to know that this dinner
expressed the genuine admiration of
all democrats for him. May I not hy
this means convey to him my warm
est congratulations and best wishes
for his continued health and happi
ness."
In reviewing at length the aceom-
ollshments of thp democratic admin
istratlon, Mr. Bryan raid the work
hd been done In one short term
"under the leadership of a great dem
ocratic president, loyally supported bv
a congress equally democratic.
T
Republican A. P. Leated Wire
LONDON", Dec. . David Lloyd
George has overthrown the Asquith
cabinet and will become prime minister
himself. The new government will be
a coalition, like the old one, but prob
ably without the same measure of har
monious support which attended the
formation of the first coalition govern
ment, because its birth has created ad
ditional factional differences.
This result has emerged from an
other day of active and hurried party
conferences and a day of Intense sus
pense and Interest throughout the
country.
There was a lirospeol this afternoon
that the personal offices of the king
might solve the situation, and many
thought that the As'iuith regime might
lie continued. The king called the party
leaders to Buckingham palace and con
ferred with them for more than an
hour. Mr. Aso,ulth and Mr. Lloyd
George of the liberals. Mr. Konar Law
and Mr. Balfour of the I'nionists. and
Mr. Henderson of the Ijil.or party were
with the sovereign. It is many years
since a British ruler assembled the
representatives of the different factions
face to face when they had shown
themselves unable to settle their dif
ferences. But no such serious crisis has
before arisen to require such action by
the king.
Whatever passed in council is held
secret, but the Inferenre that the king
tried to arrange a reconciliation ap
ears a most natural one. The five
statesmen departed separately, four in
their motor cars, and the working
men's spokesman afoot.
Afterwards the king gave an audi
ence to Mr. Honar Law, who declined
to undertake the formation of a new
ministry, and then to Mr. Lloyd George,
who accepted the responsibility, as ev
ery one anticipated he would if the op
IHitt unity came to him.
The official announcement tonight
that Mr. Lloyd George had undertaken
the task, with the co-operation of Mr.
Bonar Law, was a notification that the
new government would be coalition.
Any party government would be Im
possible liecause" neither the unionists
nor the liberals have a majority In the
house of commons: either one must
attach the Irish Nationalists or the
Ijiborltes to Itself to command a ma -Ijorlty.
The nationalists have refused to
(Continued on Tags Five)
Renublican A P. Leased Wire
WASHINGTON. Dec6. With Sen
ator Owen announcing promises of
supiiort from republicans the senate
toadv settled down to consideration
of the Owen corrupt practices bill to
limit eMK-ndlture of money in con
gressional and presidential elections,
and leaders on lioth sides predicted
that the measure would be passed lie
fore adjournment.
Senator Owen said he would with
hold for the present, at least, his
resolution to direct a special investi
gation In campaign expenditures of
all political parties in the recent na
tional election because of the assur
ances from republican senators that
thee would aici in good faith to effect
the passage of a measure that would
prevent lavish expenditures of money
and remove opportunity for corrup
tion in future campaigns.
Severnl amendments were offered
during the day among them one by
Senator Kenyon to penalize election
betting bv a fine of 500 for each of
fpnse. Senator Works proposed an
amendment which would limit Indi
vidual contributions to a campaign
fund to $lmi, to be paid only to rec
ognized political committees.
Senator Sherman, republican, ob
ected to limiting campaign expendi
tures In behalf of a senatorial cam
paign to 5.i(ii), declaring the language
of the bill was not clear whether this
refined to both primaries and elec
tions or would allow a total for both
of $10,00u. The Illinois senator also
contended It was unfair to make the
same standard for states small in
territory or imputation as Nevada.
Arizona, or Delaware, and for such
large states ns New York. Pennsyl
vania and Illinois where conditions
i were vastly different.
W 1
ASDUITK I50U
REPUBLICANS TO
HELP OWEN'S BILL
THROUGH SENATE
STOCK MEN ARE FOR
INVESTIGATING THE
PACKING INDUSTRIES
Republican A. P. Leased Wire ,
CHICAGO, Dec. 6. Delegates to the
annual session of the conference on
marketing and farm credits devoted
their time today to consideration of the
packing industry as it is related to the
stockman.
Debate followed the presentation of
papers treating with the raising and
marketing of livestock.
Many speakers insisted that the
whole industry as proposed In the Bor
land bill, should , lie Investigated, not
as an attack on the packing industry,
but to discover where lies the waste
which some economists assert accounts
for the absence of substantial profit.
W. H. Parry, of the federal trade
commission, was an attentive listener.
It is this commission which the cattle
men asserted should make the investi
gation. D. B. Heard, of Phoenix, Ariz., presi
dent of the American National Live
stock Association, and A. A. DeRicciles,
of Denver, Colo., secretary of the as
sociation's market committee, advo
cated inviting the aid of the packers
in solving the problem of the cattle
men. Mr. Ie Riccjles suggested that possi
bly a packing monopoly properly con
trolled would be a good thing, and that
it even might be for the good of all con
cerned if the packers, who are also the
biggest wholesalers, should go into the
retail meat business.
Speakers today included also M. L.
McClure, president of the American
National Livestock exchange of Kan
sas City. Mo.; T. W. Tomlinson. secre
tary of the American National Live
stock Association. Denver; George K.
Andrews, immissioner of agriculture
for the Missouri Pacific railroad, St.
Louts: P. L. Burke, a ranchman of
Omaha, and K. C. Lasater of Texas,
said to own the largest dairy herd in
the world. Another speaker was Henry
Krumrey of Wisconsin, who said that
the packers last summer purchased 60
per cent of the cheese made In his state.
He said that the packers bought cheese
at 11 and 15 cents which renched the
customer at from 25 to 30 ceYits.
The address of Mr. De Ricqlcs was
the principal one devoted to livestock.
In the course of his remarks he said:
"A continued study of the special
market question leads on in the direc
tion of the idea of monopoly. The more
you dig into it, the more you are con
vinced that It is a monopoly and per
haps you also lielieve that instead of
destroying this monopoly and experi
menting with something else, we had
better take charge of it so as to elim
inate its bad features and continue the
good ones.
"I think the princijials in this pack
ing house business are convinced that
they should ease up a bit on the old
time market pressure. I am satisfied
that a great many things have been
done at market of which they were not
informed, and even if they did know it,
I believe that they have come to the
conclusion that it is not good policy to
continue to put too much pressure on
either side of the business; that is, re
duce too much the price of cattle that
are bought at market, or to hold the
dressed beef at too high a value. In
fact. I do not think they have as much
to say about the price of dressed beef
as we think they have, because I no
ticed a butcher in New York City who
was bidding for several carcasses con
siderably less than the salesman want
ed. When his bids were not accepted
he went shopping at other packers.
That was a revelation to me, as I al
ways thought 'hat the retailer had lit
tle to say about what he paid, but It
looked as if he had it pretty much his
own way."
In New York City, the speaker said,
the retailers cart their wholesale pur
chases in their own wagons, which he
said often were unsanitary.
"It has occurred to me," he said, "that
ns an economic move, we may finally
ask the big packers to add the retailing
feature of the business to their under
takings. We woud then be dealing
with responsible parties whom we could
hold to account for unreasonable prices
or unsanitary conditions."
Mr. lie Kicqles said that his commit
tee had arranged a conference with the
packers, and that the packers would be
asked to join in a ietition for an in
vestigation by the federal trade com
mission. Their previous refusal to do
so, he said, had placed them in a ques
tionable position,
Arthur Meeker, general manager of
Armour A: Co.. and many others con
nected w ith the packing industry there,
were among those present. None of
them, however, was on the program of
seakers.
Mr. Tomlinson said that the ques
tion was asked why, If the packing
business was so profitable, more people
didn't go into it. He said the reason
BUCHAREST FALLEN
Republican A. P. Leased WireJ
Bucharest Is in the hands of the
forces of the central powers.
Exactly 100 days after the declara
tion of war by Rumania against them
finds the Teutonic allies in control of
about liO.OoO syuare miles of Rumanian
territory virtually one-half of the
kingdom running from the Transvl
vanian Alps northwest of the capital to
the Danube south of it. and a large
part of Dobrudja.
Simultaneously with the announce
ment of the fall of Bucharest comes the
news of the capture of Ploetchi, north
of the capital, the conquest of which
places in the hands of the invaders the
last railroad in the west and gives to
them the head of the line running
northward to Jassy. where the capital
of Rumania is now situated.
No details have yet come through
concerning the climax to the great
drive of the armies of General von Kal
kenhayn and Field Marshal von Mac
kensen, or whether the Rumanians and
Russians escaped successfully behind
the Bucharest line. I'nofficial advices
had indicated that four divisions of the
defenders were in a hazardous position
west of Bucharest and in danger of
being enveloped.
With the fall of Bucharest the central
powers are now In possession of four
capitals of entente allied states, the
others being Brussels, Belgrade and
Cellinje.
In the Carpathian region near the
Bukowlna frontier and along the Mol
was that Independents feared that the
big packers would go into their terri
tory with cut prices Just long enough
to drive them out of ouslness.
Mr. Heard quoted a statement that
Europe could live on the products wast
ed in the United States and said: "We
want the help of the packers in rem
edying this condition."
Milk producers present drew up a
tentative set of by-laws for a national
organization, which it was voted yes
terday to form.
o
MAIL STAGE STUCK UP
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
TWIN FALLS. Ida., Dec. 6. The
Cnited States mail stage running from
Itogerson, Idaho, to Jarbridge, Nevada,
was held up and robbed and its driver,
K. Searcy, was shot and killed today by
bandits. The first class mail sacks
were rifled and an amount reported to
be between $3,100 and $7,000 taken by
the robbers . The sheriff of Elko coun
ty, Nevada, and a posse of Jarbridge
men are searching for the bandits. The
stage was driven into Jarbridge by a
passenger who had placed the dead
body of Searcy in the stage.
MEXICANS EXECUTED
Republican A. P Leased Wire
NEW ORLEANS, Dec. 6 Newspaper
and mail advices received here today
from Merida, Yucatan, give accounts
of the execution there a week ago of
five Mexicans, including Captain Victor
Mora, of the Carranza army, who were
convicted of plotting to assassinate
Governor Alvarado and planning to
seize the funds of the Yucatan Hene
quin Growers' commission. About a
dozen others, including several soldiers,
were sentenced to penitentiary terms of
from five to eight years on similar
charges.
o
GERMANS SUBS ABROAD
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
NEW YORK,. Dec. 7 Another
warning to merchant steamers of the
entente allies to beware of German
submarines, was sent broadcast by
wireless at 1:30 o'clock this morn
ing by a British cruiser about forty
miles off Sandv Hook.
The wireless message said:
"German submarines may be met
anvw'.iere in the Atlantic, especially
west of ixty degrees nest. Keep
good lookouts. Show no unnecessary
lights. Avoid all trade routes and
tonveiging points."
Law of Jungle
Must Stop Say
Cattle Growers
By Dwight B. Heard.
CHICAGO. 111.. Dec. 6. The Market
ing conference was most successful
and very largely attended. There were
one thousand at todays session every
state but two being represented, and
many Canadian provinces.
Today's session was devoted entirely
to live stock marketing and the need
for a thorough going investigation by
the Federal Trades commission was
urged by all speakers including Burke,
Oerecquoles and Kendrick represent
ing the marketing committee of the
American Live Stock association, and
McClure, President of the American
Live Stock exchange who frankly stat
ed competition was steadily decreasing
at the great central markets.
Lassiter of the Texas Cattle Grower
association who declared that in the
interests of the consumers as well as
the producers the law of the jungle
must stop and conditions of real com
petition be substituted. Cnlike the con
ference of two years ago many of the
executive heat's 3f the packing houses
were present.
In closing the session I endeavored
to outlina a constructive plan of prog-
j ress w hich would spell real co-opera
tion among all branches of the meat
Industry under such reasonable regu
lated control as would offer a fair
profit to the producer, feeder and
packer and assure to the consumer
meat products at prices based on sup
ply and demand and on methods Of
slaughter and distribution free from
speculation manipulation and waste.
It is now very evident that the im
portant conference will go on record in
favor of a thorough-going investiga
tion by the Federal Trade commission
one of whose members is in attend
ance. davia front the Russian offensive ap
parently is meeting with little success
west of Jublonltza the Russians occu
pied a height but later were shelled off
the position by the Germans. To the
south they penetrated to the secoud
line of the German defenses in the
Trot us valley but here were held from
further advance. North of the Oituz
pass and southeast of Kedzl Varsahely
the Austro-Germans took positions
from the Russians.
Additional fortified heights northeast
of Budimirtsa, in Serbia, have been
captured by the Serbs from the Bul
garians and Germans, according to
Saloniki. while the Bulgarians are re
ported by Berlin to have expelled the
Serbs from positions near Gradesh
nitza. A heavy bombardment is in
progress north of Monastir.
The (iermans have again essayed a
somewhat intense attack in the Verdun
sector, east of the famed hill 304 near
Avoncourt. According to Paris the
attack was partly successful the Ger
mans gaining a footing in some of the
advanced French trenches.
In the Austro-Itallan and Russian
theaters the big guns are still doing
the greater portion of the work. The
Russians have shelled the Narayuvka
region in Galicia. '
German submarines have bombarded
Funchal, Madeira, and sunk there the
French gunboat Surprise and a British
and a French steamer. Thirty-four
members of the crew of the gunboat
perished.
1
