Fergus County Democrat
VOL. XIII., NO. 10
LEWISTOWN, FERGUS COUNTY, MONTANA, DECEMBER 7, 1916.
PRICE FIVE CENTS
BUCHAREST, CAPITAL OF RUMANIA,
CAPTURE THE TEUTONIC ALLIES
Exactly One Hundred Days After Declaration of
War by Rumania Against Them, the Armies
of the Central Powers Are in Possession
of One-half of the Slav Kingdom.
BERLIN, Dec. 6.—(By wireless to
Sayville.)—Bucharest, capital of Ru
mania, has been captured, it was an
nounced officially today.
ASSOCIATED PRE8S RESUME.
Bucharest, the capital of Rumania,
is in the hands of the forces of the
central powers. Exactly one hundred
days after the declaration of war by
Rumania against them, finds the Teu
tonic allies in control of about 50,000
square miles of Rumanian territory—
virtually one-half of the kingdom
running from the Trasylvanlan Alps,
northwest of the capital, to the Dan
ube, south of it, and a large part
of Dobrudja. The Teutons also are
probably still on the heels of the re
treating Russian and Rumanian arm
ies which have been endeavoring to
hold them back.
Simultaneously with the announce
ment of the fall of Bucharest came
the news of the capture of the impor
tant railroad junction of Ploetchi,
north of the capital, the conquest of
which places in the hands of the in
vaders the last railroad in the west
and gives them the head of the line
running northward to Jassy, where
the capital of Rumania is now sit
uated.
No details have yet come through
concerning the climax to the great
drive of the armies of General von
Ealkenhayn and Field Marshal von
Mackensen, or whether the Rumanians
and Russians succeeded entirely in
making their esc&pe behind the Bu
charest line. Previous to the an
nouncement of the capture of Buchar
est and of Ploechtl, unofficial ad
vices had indicated that four divi
sions of the defenders were in a haz
'ardous position in the region due west
of Bucharest, and in danger of being
enveloped.
With Uie fall of Bucharest the cen
tral powers are now in possession of
four capitals of entente allied states,
the others being Brussels, Belgrade
and Cettlnje.
In the northwest, in the Carpathian
region near the Bukowlna frontier and
along the Moldavia front the Russian
offensive, begun as a diversion against
the Teutonic advance into Rumania,
apparently is meeting with little suc
in the Carpathians, west of Jablon
itz, the Russians captured a height
but later were shelled off the position
by the Germans. To the south they
succeeded in penetrating to the sec
ond line of the German defenses in
the Trotus valley but here they were
held by the defenders from further
advance. North of the Oituz pass and
southeast of Kedzi Varsahely, the
Austro-Germans took positions front
the Russians.
Additional fortified heights north
east of Budimirtsa. in Serbia, have
been captured by the Serbs from the
Bulgarians and Germans, according
to the Saloniki war office, while the
Bulgarians are reported by Berlin to
have expelled the Serbs from posi
tions near Gradeshnitza. A heavy
bombardment is In progress north of
Monastlr.
The Germans have again essayed
a somewhat intense attack in the Ver
dun sector, launching it on the slopes
east of the famous Hill 304 near Avo
court. According to Paris,' the at
tack was partly successful, the Ger
mans gaining a footing in some of
the advanced French trenches. Other
wise on the French front there have
been onlv operations and bombard
ments by raiding parties.
in the Austro-Italian and Russian
theaters the big guns are still doing
Hie greater nortion of the work. The
ruins have heavily shelled the Nara
yuvka region in Galicia.
German submarines have bombard
ed Fltncul. Madeira and sunk the
FTench gunboat Surprise and a Brit
ish and a FTench steamer. Thirty
four members of the crew of the gun
boat perished.
CAPTURE OIL WELLS.
LONDON, Dec. 6.—(11:20 p. m.) —
FEDERAL INVESTIGATION OF HIGH
COST LIVING BEGINS IN EARNEST
WASHINGTON, Dec. 6—The fed
eral Investigation of the high cost of
living began today to take definite
form with indications that it would
be one of the most comprehensive ever
undertaken and would extend to every
section of the United States. Not only
Is a sweeping Inquiry into the cause
of the soaring cost of foodstuffs con
templated, but the recent pinch in the
coal supply and its resultant price ad
vances also will be made, in all proba
bility, the subject of broad investiga
tion.
From President Wilson down, of
ficials began to cope in earnest with
The fall of Bucharest and Ploechti, an
nounced In the German official com
munication tonight, has not been con
firmed from other sources, but the po
sition revealed by the previous Ger
man and Russian communiques left
little hope that the Rumanian capital
could be saved.
No official Rumanian statements
have been received in London since
Sunday, but the Russian official re
ports recorded the steady retirement
of the Rumanians before the victor
ious enemy forces. The rapidity of
the advance of the central powers
seems to show that no attempt was
made to defend the capital
NON-PARTISAN LEAGUE IS
DETERMINED TO CLEAN UP
MINNEAPOLIS WHEAT PIT
ST. PAUL, Minn., Dec. 6—The dedi
cation of the newly-construfcted farm I
™j™' nal elevator, erected by the
Equity Co-operative exchange, at a 1
cost of *200,000, featured today's ses
sions of the third annual convention
of the Equity Co-operative Exchange.
A parade of hundreds of farmers, head
ed by a platoon of mounted police,
moved to the elevator location on the
upper levee, shortly after the time set
for the opening of the afternoon ses
sion.
With a dipper full of murky water
from the Mississippi river, J. M. An
derson, president of the Equity Co
operative Exchange, splashed the con
crete wall of the new building and
formally dedicated it to the purpose
for which it was erected, while more
than 5,000 persons stood by and cheer
ed. The several persons who aided
with the dedicatory exercises were
also given a liberal christening from
the same pail by Mr. Anderson as
they concluded their remarks, with
(he single exception of Henry McCall,
St. Paul commissioner of public safety.
As the president turned to the crowd
to introduce him, Mr. McCall scooped
up a cupful of water and christened
the speaker.
President Anderson said it was sin
gularly symbolic that water from the
Mississippi river should be used in
christening the elevator, since its erec
tion marked the beginning of a period
when wheat raised by the northwest
farmer ,'will Ibe shipped down that
river and distributed at various ports
of the inland waterway.
Robert Bridges, president of the Port
of Seattle commission, congratulated
the northwest farmers on their
achievement in building the terminal
elevator and urged a movement in
Minnesota looking to the early estab
lishment of sufficient dockage and
wharfage to accommodate the freight
business which the exchange is sure
to bring to thiB section.
Representatives of equity farmers
from North Dakota, Soutii Dakota,
Montana and Minnesota spoke in
praise of the movement which lias re
sulted in completion of the structure.
At the morning session Representa
tive Magnus Johnson of Kimball,
Minn., sounded a warning to the big
business interests against opposing the
farmers, particularly in Minnesota.
where a non-partisan league fight is
beginning, a clash which it predicted
to be more bitterly fought than that
which marked the victory of the league
in North Dakota.
With regard to the Minneapolis
Chamber of Commerce,
said;
Mr. Johnson
"We do not want to destroy the
chamber of commerce, hut we mean
to clean it up, to have its rules changed
and to have it do better and cleaner
business. With the help of the com
mon people," Mr. Johnson continued,
"if the big interests dare to vote
against farm measures we are going
to clean them up. We are going to do
it better than we did in North Da
kota."
F\ O. Richards, author of the South
Dakota primary law, who spoke after
Mr. Johnson, explained to the farmers
the need of parties.
M. V. Boody, secretary of the North
Dakota State Equity union, in his ad
dress, spoke against the over-capital
ization of railroads, and E. A. Bennett
of Great Falls, Mont., explained his
plan for developing a national co-oper
ative system .
the problems presented by the situ
ation. The president took under con
sideration preliminary reports which,
with others yet to come, will form the
basis for recommendations he may
make to congress.
A dozen speeches on the subject
were made in the house and several
resolutions, proposing inquiries, were
introduced. These were referred to
committees without discussion.
Department of justice officials held
all-day conferences with members of
the federal trade commission and Dis
continued on Page Seven.)
ert
ALBERT J. STEPHENS, WELL-KNOWN
BLACKSMITH, PNEUMONIA l/ICTIM:|
Albert J. Stephens, a well known
blacksmith, died Monday morning at
his residence, 120 West Boulevard, of
pneumonia and complications, aged 57
years. The decedent was a native of
Wisconsin and I? survived by the
widow, four daughters, Anna, Rhea,
Charlotte and Mary; two sons, Holl
and George; four sisters, three
living in Wisconsin and one in Vir
ginia, and two brothers, George Steph
ena of Walkerville, who is now in the
city, and the other residing at Afton,
Iowa.
The decedent formerly resided at
Butte, where lie was blacksmith for
the Ironsides ft Shields mine,
The decedent was well known hero
and elsewhere and was universally re
spectcd.
advocated the public ownership of ele
vat ors, wharve8 aIld d0 cks. .. when you
, . .
have to draw on the Producer for
in ills afternoon address Mr. Bridges
have to draw
funds to establish elevators, wharves
and docks, the burden is too great,"
said Mr. Bridges. "Such things should
be publicly owned and operated as is
being done in Canada, California and
Louisiana."
In explaining his statements Mr.
Bridges drew examples from informa
tion gained by his experience as presi
dent of the Port of Seattle commis
sion. In closing, Mr. Bridges recom
mended that Minnesota start a dock
system in co-operation witli other
states interested in river shipping.
The big parade of the afternoon was
followed by a downtown demonstra
tion at night. Starting from the Equity
headquarters at the old First National
bank building, Y the evening parade,
with two bands playing and headed
by a squad of mounted police, passed
through the loop district. Each march
er carried a flaring sparkler. Brief
stops were made at the downtown
hotels where a fresh supply of torches
were distributed and the procession
moved on.
Arriving at the junction of Fifth und
St. Peter streets ranks were broken
and a big bonfire was made of the
partly burned sparklers.
when the ease of John n „ k>
charged witli the murder of Fred C.
Gillis, wa s set for trial it was thought
three days would allow plenty of time
f0 r it, but the third day of the trial
was consumed yesterday anil it is a
question if the case will reach the
j Ur y tonight.
YOUNG JOHN FINK DENIES ALL
KNOWLEDGE OF KILLING
OF FRED C. GILLIS.
TRIAL WILL TE RESUMED TODAY
As was expected the state rested
yesterday after several witnesses had
been recalled to testify as to minor
points and Deputy Game Warden Tom
Berkin had been examined as an ex
pert on fire arms. Mr. Berkin de
scribed the effect of pistol shots at
short distances from the object shot
j witli respect to powder marks, this
j being for the purpose of overcoming
a theory tentatively held by the de
fense that Gillis was not murdered at
all but had committed suicide. The
testimony of the game warden was
strong and convincing as to the points
covered by him, and he had fortified
what he stated by actual demonstra
tions.
Dr. H. H. Wilson was called by the
state to testify somewhat as to the
same matters and he was positive
enough also as to the matters covered
by him, but his testimony did not off
set Mr. Berkin's evidence on the mat
ters contended for by the state. The
j doctor's cross examination was a mat
j ter of seconds,
The witnesses called by the state
during Monday were Harry Grif
fin, S. C. Kerr and United States
Commissioner Byron C. Clow. While
their testimony was largely of a pre
liminary nature, that given by Mr.
Clow, who conducted the inquest, was
most important. He testified as to the
finding of the body and was present
when Dr. F'aulds performed the au
topsy and extracted the bullet. The
witness identified this bullet, and said
it was home made and the shell had
been loaded with black powder and
tiiis bullet put in it, while he con
cluded that a cap removed from
another cartridge had been used on
this home made product. He visited
F'ink's cabin and secured some simi
lar home made bullets and a can of
black powder, such as this particular
shell had contained, as shown by the
black smut on the base of. the bullet.
The automatic used took a 32 calibre,
and this bullet was not of the weight
Continued on Page Eight.)
----«
*
fTF—f'Tk'T'V—-Ti
Murder
THOMPSON FALLS, Dec. 6.
—Mias Edith Colby, a newspaper
reporter, convicted today of sec
ond degree murder in connec
tion with the shooting last Sep
tember of A. C. Thomas, a poli
tician, is to be sentenced Satur
day. Motion for a new trial will
be argued on the same day. For
ty ballots were taken by the ju
rors, who deliberated eight
hours. At first, according to the
foreman of the jury, two votes
were for acquittal. Most of the
ballots were cast in an effort to
determine the punishment. The
jury fixed the punishment al
most at the minimum of 10 to
12 years in the penitentiary.
WILSON'S
MESSAGE
Annual Address to Con
gress Breaks Record
for Briefness.
ABOUT 2,000 WORDS
In the Hall of the House, With Sen
ators and Representatives Assem
bled in Joint Session, President Wil
son, in Accordance With the Custom
He Began at the Opening of His
Term, Read His Address Frotn the
Clerk's Desk—Message Wholly De
voted to Domestic Subjects, Princi
pally Railroad Legir , •' , . tin.
WASHINGTON, Dec. 5. President
Wilson's address at the opening of the
session of congress today was wholly
devoted to domestic subjects, prin
cipally the problems of railway legis
lation.
In the lia.ll of the house, witli sena
tors and representatives assembled in
joint session. President Wilson, in ac
cordance with the custom he began at
the opening of tils term, read his ad
dress from the clerk's desk.
The president not only renewed his
recommendation for legislation to pre
vent a nation-wide railway strike or
lockout before there lias been oppor
tunity for Investigation, but defended
it against tho attack of organized labor
as nothing arbitrary or unjust and the
''Justifiable safeguarding by society of
the necessary processes of Its very
life."
Aside from recommendations for the
passage of the Porto Rico government
bill, the corrupt practices bill and the
Webb bill to legalize American collect
ive selling agencies abroad, the presi
dent's address was devoted wholly to
tlie railrpad situation. The only fea
ture whieli had not been forecast was
the elimination of the proposal that
congress give explicit approval to con
sideration by the interstate commerce
commission of an increase in freight
rates to meet additional expenditures
by tlie railroads caused by the opera
tion of the Adamson law.
Today the president took the posi
tion that "the power of tlie interstate
commerce commission to grant an In
crease of rates on the ground referred
to is indisputably clear and a recom
mendation by the congress with re
gard to such a matter might seem to
draw in question tlie scope of the
commission's authority or its inclina
tion to do justice when there is no reu
son to doubt either."
The other recommendations on tlie
railroad situation made in a special
message during the last session, which
were not put into inw, were renewed
today. They include; •
"Immediate provision for the en
largement and administrative reorgani
zation of the Interstate commerce com
mission along the lines embodied in
the bill recently passed by the house
of representatives Hnd now awaiting
action by the senate; in order that
tlie commission may he enabled to
deal with the many great and various
duties now devolving upon it with a
promptness and thoroughness which
are, witli its present constitution and
means of action, practically impos
sible.
"An amendment of tlie existing fed
eral statute which provides for the
mediation, conciliation and arbitration
of such controversies as the present
by adding to it a provision that, in
case the methods of accommodation
now provided for should fail, a full pub
lic investigation of the merits of every
such dispute shall be instituted and
completed before a strike or lockout
may lawfully lie attempted.
"The lodgement in the hands of the
executive of the power, in case of mili
tary necessity, to take control of such
portions of such rolling stock of the
railways of the country as may be re
quired for military use and to operate
them for military purposes, with au
thority to draft into the military serv
ice of tlie United States such train
crews and administrative officials as
(Continued on Page Eight.)
DAVID LLOYD GEORGE
TASK OF FORMING A
UNDERTAKES
NE W, MIN ISTRY
LEWISTOWN TRAIN JUMPS TRACK
WHILE BACKING INTO HELENA
IHOLFJNA, l)cc. <i. Five persons
were slightly Injured when the ob
servation car, attached to the Great
Northern train, from l.uwistowu, left
tlie trucks while bucking into llelenu,
tilts evening. The accident occur
near tlie depot. Those hurt: Mrs.
Diana Caswell, Seattle, cut about the
nose and mouth; Miss Helena Cas
well, Iter daughter, cut in tlm arm;
Mrs. Walter Saunders, Helena; FI. C.
Robertson, Peoria, ill.; Fid M. Wil
son, Wolf Creek. The last throe were
contused and shaken.
The ear turned completely over. R.
G. l.lneharger, a Billings newspaper
man, a Deputy Sheriff Itohiuson of
Cascade county, both of whom were
in the ear, succeeded in removing
the women and children at once.
1
VILLA BANDITS KILL MANY
PROMINENT MEXICANS IN A
RAID ON CHIHUAHUA CITY
JUAREZ, Mexico, Dec. li. A num
ber of prominent Mexicans were killed
in f'lllhiiahua City by Villa bandits, nr
cording to private messages received
here today. These advices stated that
Jesus Mollnar, Ituoiil Garcia, Liurinno
llolquiu, Acting Mayor Emilhmo En
riquez and M Orglnna were among
those killed. The deaths of llolquiu
and Enriquez only have been confirm
ed The merchandise store of Davis
& Co., and Dannis ft Co., were looted,
but their American owners unharmed.
A message was received from
friends of Jose liovlo denying that Ills
daughter hud been curried away by
Villa bandits.
German Consul Max Weber also re
ceived a message from Carlos Hotel
sen, acting German consul at Chihua
hua City, saying he was safe.
Mollnar, a cattle deuler, was Hald
to be a relative of General Luis Ter
razas. Garcia was sai<l to have sul
fered deatli because be worked for an
American concern.
A Cavalry column has been organ
ized by Gen. Francisco Murgula, newly
appointed military commander of the
northeastern zone, to pursue Villa, lust
reported 45 miles west, of the capital.
Murguht succeeds Gen. Jacinto Tre
vino, who Is said to have been called
COMMISSIONERS SELECT THE
MEN WHO WILL HAVE CHARGE '
OF FIRST EXPOSITION.
NAME NEW HIGH SCHOOL TRUSTEE
At the regular monthly meeting of
the county commissioners Monday,
preliminary arrangements for the
First Annual F'ergus County F'air, to
be Hold here next full or late in Urn
summer, were begun. It was decided,
following a full discussion, to appoint
a board of live members to take charge
of and munuge tlie luir, und tho fol
lowing were named:
it. F. Hills of Coffee Creek; Odin
Uomunstud of F'ergus; Thomas Nielioi
son of Hobson; Amos Snyder of Beck
et, and C. L. Wentworth of Lewis
town. I/. I). Blodgett was chosen us
the secretary for this board.
In the matter of getting out the
premium list in pamphlet form for tho
fair, a proposition from F. 10. Race
and I Carl McGinnis was accepted, tills
being considered as very favorable.
The publishers will furnish to the fair
board 3,000 copies of the premium list
free of all charge and should more be
required will furnish such additional
number at exact cost.
A new petition for the incorpora
tion of Grass Range was received and
will he acted upon before the board ad
journs.
High School Trustee.
FYank J. Hazen, who has served
long and faithfully as a member of
the high school hoard, sent in his
resignation, which was accepted, and
the commissioners appointed Frank It
Cunningham to (ill the vacancy.
—— ----O---
BOOSTING ELKS' BALL.
Randall B. Vrooman of Grass Range
spent part of Sunday and Monday
in the city boosting the first annual
bail of the Grass Range FClks, which
will take place Saturday, December
16, tlie proceeds of which will be do
nuted toward the building fund of the
local Fllks' lodge. The great question
confronting the Grass Range mem
bers of the local lodge was ovefcomo i
when arrangements wore made which i
allowed them to use the newly erected |
French garage, in which to stage tlie't
dance. Mr. Vrooman was confident j
from tlie interest displayed locally a \
large contingent of Lewlstown people
would he in attendance, and it is be
lieved a special train will be used for
i the purpose of transporting them to |
^and from the Range. A large crowd
I will be in attendance and witli the
line large floor space and good muslc
'an enjoyable time is assured.
Upon Refusal of Andrew Boiiar Law to Accept the
Leadership, "The Little Welsh Lawyer" As
sumes the Responsibility—New Gov
ernment Will Be a Coalition One.
LONDON, Dec. (i. (II p. in.) —
David Lloyd George Ims overthrown
(he Asquith cabinet and will become
prime minister himself. The new gov
eminent will lie coalition, like the old
one, hut probably without the same
measure of harmonious support which
attended the formation of the first
coalition government, because Its birth
has created additional tact Iona I dif
ferences.
Tills result has emerged from an
other day of active and hurried party
conferences and a day of Intense sus
pense and interest throughout the
country.
There was a prospect Ibis afternoon
to Mexico Ctty.
Reports that Trevino would lie court
nmrtinled were officially denied here.
Arnulfo Gonzales has been Installed us
civil governor, succeeding F'raiielsco |
Trevino, brother of the general. j
BELIEVE CARRANZA WILL SIGN.
MEXICO CITY, Dec. 6. The general
impression among high government of-1
flcittls here Is that the protocol draft
ed by the Mexican and American com-'
misslouers al Atlantic City and hav
ing uh its object u settlement of tho
points at issue between Mexico and
tlm United Stales, will be signed by !
General Carranza, if he has not ul- j
ready affixed Ills signature to It. it
Ih thought there may lie slight changes
in tlie wording of the document, but \
that the main points or it will he ■
agreed to by General Carranza.
Alberto J. Panl, one of the Mexican '
commissioners, has been delayed here
hut Is to reach tjuerutaro tomorrow
and will probably leave there inline
diately for tho United States witli Gen
eral Carranza's reply to the protocol.
The reply may not be made public
until it Is transmitted to tlie Joint con
ference ut Atlantic City.
MAY BE RATIFIED.
WASHINGTON. Dec. 6. Unofficial j
Information today that Alberto J. Paul,
wlio carried to General Carranza the
border protection protocol, agreed to !
at Atlantic City, was on Ills way back
to the United States from Mexico, was |
construed at the state department as I
mi indication that tlie first chief had
ratified the document. The Joint com- i
mission that drafted tlie protocol ad-,
journed Nov. 23 to reassemble Dee . :
X if Carranza's uctlou was favorable. ,
DAVE TREPP RETURNS FROM LONG I
STAY IN NEVADA MINING CAMPS
After nearly a year spent at Gold
field, Nev., and that section, David
Trepp, long one ul the most popular
newspaper men of this section, re
turned to Lewistown Tuesday evening,
making the entire trip from Goldfield
to this city in ills Packard car.
Before leaving, Mr. Trepp closed
up a lease and bond on the big lead
property in the Palmetto mountains,
thirty-seven miles from Goldfield,
which lie inis been developing, witli
reliable parties and his presence there
will not lie necessary for many months
at least. Mr. Trepp lias not yet
had time to decide upon his plans
for the immediate future but he in
tends to remain in I-lewistown with
his family for the winter und will no
doubt soon lie heard from in some
line of activity which he will push
with his usual energy.
Mr. Trepp was given a most cordial
welcome by Ills host of friends.
•----------O-----—
MISS OLIVE SLOAN MARRIED.
Announcements have been received
in the city of I lie marriage of Miss
Olive Sloan and Dr. Harry Cowan, both
of Butte. The bride is tlie daughter
of Mr. and Mrs. A. M. Sloan of this
city and received her education In tlie
Lewistown schools and lias a host of
friends. F'or tlie past year she lias
been filling the position of stenogra
pher at the Murray hospital at Butte.
Dr. Harry Cowen, the groom, is a phy
sician at the hospital. Tlie young
couple will make their home at Butte.
REPUBLICANS WILL SUPPORT THE
OWEN CORRUPT PRACTICES ACT
WASHINGTON, Doc. 6.—With Sen
ator Owen announcing promises of
support from republicans, the senate
today settled down to consideration
of tlie Owen corrupt practices bill to
limit expenditures of money in con
gressional and presidential elections,
and leaders on both sides predicted
that tlie measure, In amended form,
would he passed before the March
adjournment.
Senator Owen said informally he
would withhold for the present, at
least, his resolution to direct a special
investigation in campaign expenditures
of all political parties in the recent
that the personal offices of the king
might solve tlie situation, und many
though that the ^Asquith regime might
lie continued. The king called the
party leaders to Buckingham palaco
ami conferred with them for more than
an hour. Mr. Asquith and Mr. Lloyd
George, of tlie liberals; Mr. Bouar
laiw and Mr. Ilulfuur of tho unionists,
and Mr. Henderson of tlie labor party,
were with tlie sovereign, it Is many
years since a British ruler assembled
the representatives of tho different
factions facet oface when they had
shown themselves unable to settle
their differences. But no such seri
ous crisis has arisen before to require
such action by tlie king.
Whatever passed in council Is held
secret, but tho Inference that tlie king
tried to arrange u reconciliation ap
pears a most natural one. Tlie llvu
statesmen departed separately, four In
their motor cars and tlie workingmen's
spokesman, afoot.
Afterwards tlie king guvo an audi
ence to Mr. llouar Ijiw, who docllued
to undertake tlie formation of a new
ministry, und then to Mr. Lloyd
George, who accepted the responsibil
ity, us every one anticipated lie would
if I lie opportunity came to him.
The official announcement tonight
that Mr. Lloyd George hud undertaken
the tusk, with tlie co-operation of Mr.
Bouar 1 *aw, was a notification that
the new government would lie coall
tlon. Any party government would be
impossible, because neither the union
ists nor tlie liberals have a majority
In tho house of commons; either one
must attach tlie Irish natlonallHts or
tho lalmritcH to llsnlf to command a
majority. The nationalists have re
fused to participate in tho government
until home rule becomes established.
Tho luhoritos are sworn onontlns to
Mr. Lloyd George because they resent
IBs accusations that the working men
have put their personal Interests above
the national interests at times during
the wur.
That the laborttes are not likely to
support a Lloyd George administra
tion was further Indicated at a meet
ing of tne parliamentary committee
of tlie Trades Unions today, which
adopted a resolution unanimously ex
pressing profound regret "that certain
statesmen, influenced by tho press
campaign, huvo in the hour of tlie na
tion's crisis, entirely failed to observe
the loyalty and self-sacrifice which
they repeatedly urged upon the work
men during the war."
The rnsolutlon continues:
"Further, wo earnestly hope that the
present unseemly quarrel amongst
those entrusted with great responsi
bility shall Immediately censo and so
set a better example to tlie workers."
The Court Circular tonight, an
nouncing tho political audiences and
conferences ut the palace today, adds;
"The king gave a further audience
tills evening to Mr. Uonar Law, who
Intlmutod Unit, ho was unable to form
an administration. Thereupon the
king summoned Mr. Lloyd George,
who, at his majesty'iC request, under
took to endeavor to form an adminis
tration." 'I
Tho country awaits tlie rising of the
curtain on tlie next act of this his
torical and remarkable crisis with an
expectancy which never surrounded
the birth throes of any previous gov
ernment. The Lloyd George ministry
means the direction of the war by a
dictatorship in the form of an inner
council of the cabinet and means the
scrapping of those older statesmen,
whose supremacy in the councils of
tlie nation, until they choose to-with
draw from the scone voluntarily, has
always heretofore been regarded by
tho British people as a matter of
course.
Mr. Asquith, Mr. Balfour, Viscount
Grey und Ixird Lunsdowne "must go,"
the Lloyd press has been crying. But.
their going will be attended by wide
spreading misgivings among the peo
ple who have thought their knowl
edge and experience as necessary to
the government as tho push and driv
ing power of the group which will suc
ceed them.
Mr. Lloyd George is committed to
the formation of a wur council and
the membership of that dictatorship
will he the most important and crucial
work lie will have to deal with. An
drew Bonar Law, the Earl of Derby
aiul Sir Fldward Carsort, all of them
conservatives, are most talked of. Mr.
Iionar Uw and l^ord Derby would be
(Continued on Page F'our.)
i national election because of the as
1 surances from republican senators that
l they would aid, in good ,faith, to ef
| feet the passage of a measure that
j would prevent lavish expenditures of
money, and remove opportunity for
| corruption in future campaigns.
I Several amendments were offered
1 during the day .among them one by
Senator Kenyon to penalize election
betting by a fine of $500 for each of
fense. Senator Works proposed r.
similar amendment and another which
would limit individual contributions
to a campaign fund of $100 to be paid
only to recognized political commit
tees.
