BURLINGTON, VERMONT, THURSDAY, DECEMBER 7, 191(5.
NUMBER 23.
II III 119(111 IHI
RITI8H PREMIER
r Law Declines Honor In-
irmonious Coalition Cab
inet Probable.
REMARKAHLE CRISIS.
Illnhlri Venus Direction nf nr
Dlelillnrslilp In Form ttl Imirr
( nunc II nf tin- Cabinet.
FORCES OF CENTRAL
POWERS NOW OCCUPY
CITY OF BUCHAREST
Capital Falls Exactly 100 Days After Roumania
Declares War against Teutonic Allies One
Half the Kingdom Under Foes' Control
Conquest of Plocchti, North of Bucharest,
Cuts Off Last Railroad in the West.
SWEEPING INQUIRY
INTO F00DPRICE5
U. S. Government Determined to
Know Why Cost, of Living
Is High.
CONGRESS IS INTERESTED.
HAPPENINGS IN VT. f R R Y A N LlFFf N
VJCTKO ttl KJUULM1 iJCO!
ADDISON COUNTY
d- n Do. r,
vcrthtowt. tl
'oecin ! v i
tovci i in i w
nr, lmt foli.
iip (if rn
leel tin1 Corn
(tl'VC'-lllC'llt
David Llnyd-Oennte
Hilth (ablnot anil
minister himself 'I'Iip
I ii- coalition Ilk'' Hie
hit without Hip SUIHC
"M"US slippni ' w 111' ll
tun. nf Hip m il (.ali
ke aiise lis liirlli has
I
r r
ra
f rv ii
( r h
r I i
ike il
til i
led ii
I
1
Ruohurost, the capital of Rouuuiiii.i.
Is in the hands uf tlii' forces ul' the n
trul powers.
Nxaotly one hundred days after the
declaration or win- bj Uoit niitn tu
nsninst tin-lit llnds the Teutonic nllics
In control of about r.u.Oun siiunro miles
ol' Roumanian territory v 1 1-1 11:1 11 ulie
linir or tho klndum ruiiuliit; rtoni the
Tr.insylvanl.-in Alps inn tiniest nf tin-
capital to tin; Danube south of
a larttc puit of Liobrmljii, and p
("till on thu lu-ols of tho i i-tn-ul itiu Rus
sian and Uiiunninian armies which
have boon undcuvoriiiu to liolil them
manv i,.u.
Miiiuiluneuusly with tin- uiitinuneo
iiiciit of tlio fall of Ruchuiest raiiio the
hews of tin- uaptuie of tlii' Important
r.iilro.ui Junrllon of 1'lnechtl ninth ol
tin- capital, the eoniiiicst of which
places In thu hands of the Invaders tin'
last r.-illioad In the- west and itlvcs tu
tin-in tin- lii'.-id of the llni' running
iiurthwntd to Ja.ssy. where tin- capital
of liuumanla Is now situated
No details h.-ivo ypt i onn- tlirniiffli
roni-prnliiM; tlio climax to tin- nrt-.it
drlip of tin- nrnili-s of Oetiornl Von
Fnlkonliyn anil Field Marshal Von
Mnckcnsen, or whether the Itonniun
lans and Russians succc-i-di-d i-iitirlv
in niakiiiK their escape lii-hinil tin-
to tho -iii-
cunturc of Hii"hii i est
v roiir In tht-irnotor i,,,d of l-lo.-i-lul nnorrii-ial advices h.id
rkitnjiiioii's spokesman indicate-, 1 that lonr divisions ..f tin- .h
' I't iiih rs wore in ,i liiiz;iiil"iis iiiisttuui
in the rc-Kion tint- wi st or lin. loirest and
In danttur or buiitst enveloped.
itlf tho fall of Rucharost tin- Teutonic
iillli-R arc- now in possession of four
capitals of cnlunti- allit-d States, tin- other
home Rrussols. Holjiiadp ami f'utllnje
In tin- nortlmvst, in the Carpathian if
wlon ni-.ir llic lluUowiiia fmniii'i' and
aluni,' tlio .Moldavia front lin- Kusslan
olli-nsiii-. hcKun as a diit-rsion unainst
tin. Tt-utniiii- ndvauip into Itouiuaula, ap
parently is tnpptinc with little sniiosK. In
the I'arpatliians west of Jnhlonilz.t tli
Itussians m-i'iipicil a lirlRht hut l.ili-r
won- .sliPlltd off tin- position by the 'let
mans. To the south thpy .surrpi-iled ir.
penot rating lo tlie sepond line
or the tiprni.ui ilefenei-s In the
Tintii-, ale, but here weri held b:.' the
ill-fenders from turtbei nriviiup North
or tin- Dituz pass and southeast or Ked7i
Vtirsahely the Austro-llermans took posi
tions from the HiisHiiins.
d aildltion ff tintial dilTeti-neps.
res" It b.is t uiereil from another
if .ttip and buiiii'il paili- ronfer-
ii ml ti n i f il tt-nCi' suspense anil
st thioul.out ih.- eountiy.
rp litis a prosiif-t this iitteriioon
thp persoi 1 ..ifi.-es of the Klnu-
t solve tli. vii latloli, imd
;ht th.it tie AM'iith li'irlnie tuluhl
intliitled Ti . Kini; lulled tin- pally
rs i i I'm - 'inn palaep and eon
d iM '1 i n m-i. limn an hour. Mr.
tth r, y. Mojd-'leorirp. of the
's Mr It m.r I. ill and Mr. lialfoilt
- tin i .Hid Mr. I lenderson of the
n.-irti i-ip with the M erelpn. It
in it r. inee a Hiltl-di ruler as-
ii tin reprt st-ntatlves of (In
put i U ti fin to fare mIk-ii thpy
shri Ulelll' elvi s nimble to settle
ill" i rcT rs I'ut no such serious
r.i !-.. lrfore to ri-HUile sllrll
Hr k"--
,t if . el in eollllell is held
' i c f rein-e that the Klnu
' ' 11 rf-onelllatlon appears l!u(.h,ir,.hi Utie. Previous
Hie live statesincn , .oiinco inunt or th
Additional roitlllrd lipinhts noitlipiist
ol lluilimli tsn, In Si-ihla. luive been cup
lured by tin- Serbs Ironi the Hultiarlnns
I and ib-iiiians, iiccordliiK to the Sabmikl
(war olllee. whll" i he HulKarlans ale re
ported by Heilin to have expelled the
1 CeilM I roin iiosltloiis nun- Or.-idephnltza.
I A heavy li'iinliiiidinent is in progress
nurth or Monnstlr
Tin- ioniums have iikhIh essayed a
it, ,ind l toini'Whiil Intense altai-U In the Verdun
onablv sector, Iiiiiik liillK It mi Hie slopes east
r the rnhioiiK bill "01 near Aiocotirt.
Aocordlni; to Talis the attack wis par-
llally succi ssrul, the (lertnnns Kalnini; a
i rooting In some of tin- iidviineod French
I ti cm-hcM. othii-Miso on the French fnmt
, tin re hnve been only boinbardmeiits and
: Upellll lolls ll lillllilli; plllllos.
. 111 the Austro-ltallaii and Itiissian llie-
ntres the Iiik Klino are still iIoIiik the
trre.-itt i pniilon of the nork. The litis-
enrt It for Ctillii' of llteesvlir I'rlee,
i'iitillinirnt of ('(intiilnilorH nmt
llt-nu-illnl I.PsiMltitloti I'rornm.
WnshliiKton, lice, ii The federal
vesication of the hlt?h cost of living
b' iriin to-day to take delliilii- form iitb
llidldillons that i Mould be one of the'
nioi.t eninprehonsh e cier undertaken and ,
would eitend lo eveiy part i.r the Flilted
States N'ot only Is a swe'-piiiK iiniuiry 1
into the Hitmen or uic soailtiK cost ofjaftpr
fooilstulT.s contempliited, but the Ks-enl ( Mr
pinch In the coal supply and its resultant
price advances probably will be imnle
the subject or broad liivestiuntloti
President Wilson took under considera
tion preliminary reports, which ultli
others yet to come will rorm the basl
Tor i pcoiii mend at ions he may make to
'on cress.
A dozen speeches on the silbjei t weie
made In the House and several lesolu
tions proposing Inquiries weie Introduced.
These Here rererred to comni'ttt es. most
or them coin-,- to the Interstate and Tor-
inns have luavily shellid the Narayuvka eit;n commerce toninilttre. of which
H i int. nave an audience
, i- I. w uhn declined to lin
r i ion of a lu-ii ministr.i,
1 Mr 1 ,loyil-(Jeore, ibn
ri nsiblllty, as everyone
In v tild if thu opportunity
i il iiniK iiiiiTiiii-iit to-nlKlit that
I i i i rt-i- had undertaken th
v " t i ei piintiiiti of Mr. Ilonar
i i ii- titlc.-ition that tb" new
mini r l he coaliilon. Any party
rnno i ut'l he impossible because
nrHi ni ' - nor tin-lib' tals haie
ii rii i i i' llou-'C (if tlommtwis:
r i i ii iM.-ii-li the Irish nation-
r il i ''lb. riles tu itself t- c'Un
I a n ij' nt The in iiiiuili.-i.s have
.id I 1 unto 1 ill in the tfcveriiineiil
In k r i 1 enine.-. Ml ;i lil it h'-i I Tin
tr iri v rn 1 in-mb s of Mr.
Ii, rr In. .use they resent his
it v I '1 1 1 he iiorkliiK men have
H 1 11 p r i. il interests above the
1 I iiit 1 1 til times ilurini; the
utIoii In 'iallcia
I. "Mil. ni. I lec 1;. The
mid rioechtl, nnnoiim-i
iillhial er.'iimnuication
In en lonllrmed Ironi 1
lilt- position revealed
1 Ii riuan and Russian
l'lth- hope that the lioimianlan capital
erillld tie saved
N'o itllcial Uoimiaiiinii statements hav
been leceived ill London since Sunday.
Inn the ltusoiaii ollicial ieMls recorded
tin steady retirement ol tin- Roumanians
hi I'm e the vli l'iri'"is em my foices. The
uipidity ol" thu adianc.rt ol' Hie nntral
powers seems to show that no attempt
was made lo lt-r ml the capital, and the
notions roui-ht have probably been only
iif a di'laylnu nature.
Tin- rail of Ploichtl, perhaps. Is of
even greater importance than that of
Hucbarost. I'loeehli is a railway junc
tion ami tin- center of the meat oil dis
trict of Prahnva valley. Unless Ho Itou-m-jn
ans have been abb- lo destroy or
ihs'ihb the oil wells, mailiineiy anil
si oris of ('l, the (loriiidim will ki-I a
much nciddl piizo. Moreover, in tli"
1 Ut-presentalii i-
Adamson, who is opposed
Is ehniimnn.
I to einb. irpoes
fall of Ilucharest ! UepartiiK nl of justice officials held ( John i:
il in the 1 ierm.-in ' all-day coiiferein e with members of tin Krudin'
to-nlulit, has not j federal trade rnmnilt sion and District At
ther sources, but ' I'irnev Anderson of Hoslon, In eliarKe
by the previous ! of the department'"! Iniostlixatinn and
comiiullii(ili'S left here to rorniulate a dellnlte plan of rnn-
diictini: tlio n.-itioii-widp lniliry. About
fifty picked investli.'ators or the dppart
uient wore reported to be at woi k
tht iiir-:li"iit the enuiitr.i.
The Inlerttate commerce eommlssinii
probably will b'- ealled on to aid by pin
lidiriK data lelalive to shipments or rnn.l
stulTs. and Mi. Anderson will cnuTer Willi
eommisslon oll'ii lals before his ileparluit .
nrand jury Invpstifntion at New York or
Chleatfo, or both, of the reasons for lisinj
pilees arc said to Le still under consklein
tinn. With the program slill in process o(
formation, thorp were hiereaslii!; indica
tions that officials we-v considcriii!,' till
situation rroni thrcp angles, 'lanieli : .
I I it-termination of (he actual ciuscs
of the rapid rise In rondsturfs and coal,
whether it was duo lo natural economic
laws, to the unwarranted action of inrli-
Praiioia valley tln-y are on th" line ol j vidual dealers and producers in advanc
portion
of tin- P.oiimniiian !
cc miry awaits the rislin; of the
..in mi tin iu it not ot tins historical
n markiible crlsH w ith an 1 ipceliincy
h in if r urr und' il tlu birth throes
I 1111 11 K'"veriinient Tin- I.hvj'd-
li( 01 11 1 rv mean.-. 1 1 1 1 till 1 1 1 I'm ni
war by a d a att."-lup in the fm in of
11111 r c 111, 1 ( t the cabinet anil means
(rappiM-' t" Hi"-e 1 lder stiilesnien
I sit( rt ir-i v 111 Hie councils of tin-
II 1111' 1 He 1 .ln'se to withdraw
tii sci m 1 'liini.-iiily, has alwa.is
I- Ii re beoi Ki-.ir.led by the Urilish
do a a matti r ot eourse.
qiiith, Mi lialfoiir, Viscounl
and 1,1 nl I.ansdowiio "niust K"."
I.oyd-i r. tj.-. pirss mis in en erjinit.
their tciiie wll be attended hj
spread 1 t-r link's anionc Hie people.
havi thnuMht their know IpiIuo and
.-rienee 1 neei.'-sary t" the govern-
UTi'lIp vb'Pl will . llceeeil llieni.
I - vii 1 ;( 1 rt'( i i-'iiiiinitii'il to the
nbrr-li p if that ibeintotsblp will he
nirist. important and crucial woik he
have. t dial with Andrew lioiinr
t tin- i;.irl ( f Derby and Sir IMward
in, ,111 i t llieni ci.ns( rva lives, are
talked of Mr llnnar Daw and l.ord
Ddward I'arM'ii lias many critics,
( rcedi his talents as a Inllliant
K.O .1,11 L-llj.I, ,'ll 111 lll.f ll l.'.U '1ICJ.1
labiliiy omul .iiidBinent and busi
ixpen(iPt r r dircetitu,' war 1111 as-
retiea! "f
seeond aimy.
It , biliev'-l that the Roumanlanr' will
he crinipelled lo retire until they call
.eoiiie . shorn r line between tin- far
iiathla.is and the lower Danube, whleh
will be within easier reach i.r
relllfi-rcemeiits
Itiissian 1
PRESIDENT FOR IQTH YEAR
loile .1, l' Week" llends dillxtin I'd.
Aurleiillllrnl oelel.v SKHl for
Winter luck Mioiv.
OWNERSHIP DISPUTED.
I, mid ( use Taken I l In dilUou rminly
I'mirf tiriinil Jury lllnilseil.
Miilillehur . Dee 1;. -1 'out ni rv to exppc-
lations, a ri
! In the A1I1I1 -
lift or the 1,
Miildlebtiry. Dee ". --The aniiua1 ineetin-i The 1 ase i-.
of the Addison idunty AKrieulIural so- and Coonte
ciety was held hore to-day. In suite nf I hnun. the i.l.inililts heniK from lliandoti
the threafpiiiim weatlier the town and the ib tidanl Middlphnii
Inc prices, or whither tln-ri exist jikipi
inputs amnnt" urotips of dealerf or proline
its to boost iirices.
2 Vllforcuis iirosecmioti of persons ot
linn1, if any. Mho by violaUo.i of exist
Inc laws, in iniikini; aureemints lo nn-e
j prices ci- otherwise, have contributed to
.the upward trend of prices.
I X Enactment of loj-lslnlion to rernodj
I the present situation and 10 prevent lis
I recurr-'licp.
j The situation is in tin- I rst nf these
'stnKrs. so far as the departiin nt ot juslioe
lis concirnid. With its Invt M'srninrs nl
I ready at work, ib partment olliel-jU callei)
Ion the federal trade commission fur ("
trial was cm under WiH' 1 fiicriitinn and were promised all dnl-i
11 1 omit . couit imincdiatplv which the poinmission already may have
,1111; in or court t his moi niHK. nI further aid 111 ohtainini; Information
bat of I-'iedeiick 1".. Haekus 1 ,,1,1,1, rM11 ,o acouiied without addini;
Crocket' Vs Allan 1 nl
MlDDLKHUIvV.
The AVonian's Homo and Forelcn MIs
donaiy .ociity of the Methodist Church
met at tin home of Mis. M. II.
F.ddy Tuesday nt 2:?0 n'cloc-):. Dr. and
Mts. 1!. .1 lb nth Id have n turned Trotn
(liototi, when liny hnve been for 11 week
to visit lolatlves and 1 1 lends, it beliiK
their home town. Miss IJinnia Fuston of
Lake Placid, X V , is 111 town for a row
days' visit nt the home of her parents,
Mr. and Mrs. Koboit Fusion. Mrs. I.eivla
Woods bus returned to Wnrrcnsbtire;,
N'. V., after n few days In town with
'In-r mother, Mrs. II. I). Archer. .Mr. and
i.Mrs. Cyril I!(,ulier, who have been vlsit
JliiK at tin- Inline of his mother, Mrs.
j Frank Trudo, lor 11 im-i k, have returned
In Rutland. .Mrs, F. A. Farr has rettirn
!nl from the Maty Fletcher hospital,
when she has been for a Tow weeks
1 Mr. and Mrs. John ll-ilpln and children,
I Mis. John llalnon and Miss Isahelle
CnrriRnn have r'lttrned rrom Pltlsloril
1 several days' visit at the home
and Mrs. F. W. Carrlea n. Thirty-
one members or the Fliner family were!
intettalned TliankseivltiK 'lav at the huno
of Mr. and Mrs. Phllo Rimer 111 New
Haven. The Home and Fori Ik'i Mission
ary society oT tin- CoiiKrot'atl'iiial Church
mot with .Mrs. (!. S. Russell at her homo
on Court street Tuesday. Mrs. Fill' 11
Fletcher is III. Mr. and Mrs. Walter W.
Martin have returned rrom HurliiiKtcm,
where they have In-on to visit at the
home or their niece, Mrs. Mary Martin.
Raymond Riuya has returned to the
I'nlverslli. of Vermont arter 11 few days
at the lintno of his parents. Mr. and Mrs.
IMwaid Uruia A dauehtor. I .coin Myra,
was born November IV lo Mr. and Mrs.
SHh.s.-Miss Relic M. Wiiulit, a
of Middleburv College and now
a tracl (: at Fast JnfTn-y, N. 11 , nave an
addroj hi lore the members of St. Hilda's
fiulld at the homo of Mrs. W.
W Meflilion Saturday afternoon (i
Colli fie strut al live o'clock There
was 11 K"('(l attendance Damon Chain-p.-iKlie
has Kotie to Durlinifton, where lie
has a position III the People's Depart
ment store. Miss Mary Dailey of Rut
land Is hen- to v'sit rolativis and friends.
Mr. and Mr.-- Howard Chippendale ic
tiuned Saturday to Nashua. N. II . after
a visit of a week in tnw 11. P l( r .1.
Donnelly, who was unite seven ly Injured
hi a runaway :n 1 Ideut Nov '."7, is mak
ItiK a rapid recovery and will soon be
utile to attend to his hti.-ini' attain
Tin- Misses Marital' t, Mildred and Rhod.i
Ouillette. wbi have been stayuiR for
some wxks with I lii-lf Kiaiulmother In
V'ereennes, have come lien- to join their
parents. Dr. and Mrs (Hulletie, who n
centlv mnveil to town from Orwell
Countv Agricultural A cent J. 13. Carri
pin has letiiriu-d after spendinp tlio
ereater part of Iwo weeks In Hiving
orehard-prunim; denionst rat ions in dif-
retellt p'll'ts ot the CoUllly.
.Miss Katliryn Dillon. oiun:est daugh
ter e.f Mr. and Mrs. Patrick Dillon, wh"
Is si. tioitiaplu'i' in Hie law oflh f
Deroy c. Itussi-ll of tin- villain, was
S'izisl Willi an attack of apiiemlicills l-'ri-day
and on Saturday slu- was taken lo
tin- I'anny Allen hospital, when- sin was
operated upon. She is doiin.' as well as
Could be ipectnl. She wus accompanied
by Dr P. D. 1'orey. In- and Mrs. Fzru
Mininaiil and two d uiKhters have re
turned rp'111 Cnstleton, wlnn tiny have
been fiv I' ll dais to visit Prof, and Mrs.
Charles A. Adains - live roll R.i.-ton, who
has been vlsitin-,' In this sec-lion for ten
days, lias returned to White River June.
1 Hon. Miss Florence Lower has n turned
Ironi Rutland Monday, markt t dai, wits
'lairy Mr-Cray, the eldort one nf thej
lro,:iers, left on the noon tniln for that!
1 In nnd will briiiK tho renmlns hack tn I
IMIddliibiiry. Tho funeral will be held
his lato home here this atterneion nt
two o'clock. Tho He;v. and .Mrs. O. H.
II'i'iKhton and youm; son and dauithtcr
bain roturnoil lo WalltnKford after spend
InR several days hero with Mrs lloii!;h
ton 't panuits, Mr. and Mr Walter I.
IllllliiRj!. Tipolrs,'!! Tt. l.iiiiKwortliy, who
was severely Injured in a fall caused bv
slipplni; on tho Ice two weeks auo, i
mile h Improve d and Is now utile to be
about. Mr. nnd Mrs. Homer C. Rain have
returned from Washington, D. C, where
they wont to attend the meet Ins nf thp
national itranstp. They also visit d tliplr
r-op. who Is a studrnt 'there in an art
colloKo. Harold Taylor, who has been
vIsltlnR at the home of his parents. Mr.
r.iul Mrs. Clarence Tavlor on Seymour
street, has returned to his duties In
Sptinicflelil, Mass. OardiiPr clone! m, who
has Iippii visit Intr at the home of his p ir
enl, Mr. nnd Mrs. John floodrn, has re
turned to Montpeller. Next week Is to lie
observed as 11 week eif prayer hi the
Women's Aid to the hoard of missions of
Vermont. Sunday, December Ifi, there
will be corporate communion at St Ste
phen's Church at lo;t"i o'clock -The
Homo and Forelirn Mlsslnnnrv oeeiv of
the ConcreKatlonal Church held a well-
NEW DEMOCRACY
Says Party Should Stand for Nation-wide
Prohibition as Most
Important Issue.
OUTLINES REFORM PROGRI
fleelares )!c liHrniW to FiKlit Pcileral
Regulation of ttnllroniN nnct hc
"itennec of VHIKnrlsuu"
WashlnKton. IV-c. 6. Reforms to
which he hopes to commit the Demo
cratic party and to see ace omplishecl
within the next four years were out
lined to-nlulit by William Jonnlnmi
Rryan at u dinner Klveii In his honor
by admirers amoncr dcinno'vitii offlr ala
and members or Coiikiis- Nation
wide prohibition ho 1111,'ed a.- most im
pnrtnnt and other causes on his list
liiiltided woman suffrage by lideral
afncnilment. election of the president
by direct popular vote and changes to
make the Constitution more i.isllv
attended mpptiiur al Hip home- of Mrs.
S. Russell on Conn street Tuesday after- amendable.
noon. The subject discussed wns "More In addition to his program to be a
Than Cnncuerir' In Turkey" anil the - vocated, Mr. rirynn k.ivc a prominent
leaders were Mrs. A. W. Wilson, Mrs. place to two things lie proposes to
Carl Harton and Mrs. Fleiyd Keese and'Hftlit:
I he subject was well discussed. Th'! , "The effort to rIvp tho federal ov
Woman's Home and Fnrelcrn Mlsslnna iv ernmi-nt exclusive conti ol 01 or m ilrosui
society of the leiliodlst Church held a
well-attended meetlnc at the homo of
Mrs. M. H. l-3dd.i Tuosdav afternoon.
Miss Hmnia I-3aston. who has hcen vlslt
liifr at the homo of her parents, Mr. and
Mrs. Robert 13aston. for ici days, has re
lilrned to Uike Placid. N. V Mrs Jeihn
II. Sarcent has cone to Ausable Forks,
N. V,, to spend two w-peks --TIip federated
fair of the several churches, which opens
here to-day at VIM o'clock, promises to
ho .1 success. Lunches will he served at
both the noon and supper hour, as well
ns in between. In the ovenlm,' there will
he an entertainment. A ladles' double
'luartette will furnish music
VERGENNES.
he r 11 ore ( e i- i
of li, own w.i 1
the poiinpil, wb
onfriiiiieil with tin"
will become a uiein-oinn-il.
His scheme
ell he piesenle-d to
pi lee or his con
1 aliinet, cM'ludce
premier on the mound that the ki-ii-
1 ,lutlr.X of th(, ..III. ,lfil 1 1 o I 1..MC.. 10-11.
dally si sloi s. in which the council
Ql rlovoti' il r f The. . nokl im, vxluillior
rd Northt Uffr to whom 111010 than lo
one unle - himself. Mi. I.lovd-
cabinet is lunch dlsoussnl. It he
s, the presence there of Mr. Ascpiiih,
count (Jrey and Mr. P.airour, whom
inane it.iu' iipparcimy necoines en-
.1.. l,..r..l,..l.ln
nm will Vie minister for fordm, .icfulru
, ..1.... 0, ... ,.r ti... .... 1 ... .
most Important olllces outside ol' the
lltiiry and naval spheiei is u matter
sH.uation, on which preilletlons are
K-liesswork The House of Coinuions
II mePt to-morrow, but no notice ic-
OillH tu. ,." .- ' o. ,r ,-a',-,-icu
ollicial note to-nlKlii s.iis Hie pineeed.
will be formal and that no iiuei-llons
II be an' we red
ATIONAL MEDICAL
EXAMINATION DAY
hall was tilled. I'n sldont John 13. Weeks
presided. Secretari Frank "'. D el nf
K.ilishtiry read a lencthy reoort, IncludbiK
a letter from Andrew Hlllof of Halt.
Ontario, who was the cattle judye al tho
ri'cont fair, In which he praised lin; so
ciety. Ills report was accepted and
adopted.
The treasurer's report showed thai tho
receipts for the last fair were tlll.Kn.-.'o,
and the I'Mienses $1,17 7'- The net assets
are- M.2IS.5". A year .iito they were
5 1 . )il .;.". sbowiiiK 1111 1111 reuse in the -.iri
of $i,?:i7..v..
Col. S. A. Ilsley or Midilli-biiry, who
Tor a number of ypars has been a Breat I
benefactor oT the asset latlon, arose I
ailmisl applause, sintlmr thai be had not
hei-n out of his rooms fm several weeks,
hut that be -lixed" himself up to attend
this meeting and nominated Hie Hon.
.Inln, K Weeks for re-election as presi
dent for the H'th year. .Indite Weeks was I
un.-iiilmoiislv re-eleeted Col. Ilsley was1
The ens. involies the title to a strip of
land 7 Ic 1 by feet located on the
sl-oi( of I ..ke Dunni'iie ill S.ilisbuiv and
form a pari of .1 im-acre piece formerly
owned at vn lions limes within 'Jn years
'.v ('ol I'reileriek Kopi't-r of Now York
ami Salisliur.i , Daniel Stuart of Now York
and Ins brothei. Frank D. Meehan, of
Snlisbnri, diaries F. lium-lc.i of Satls
liur and former linnTimr 13. .1. Ormsbee
and l-3d ward S Marsh of ISr.indon. The
litigants on both sides claim to hold valid
iloeds 10 Hie piopciti. The defendant,
I'alliouii. has been in possession for elitlil
or nine years
Pi or. Finest c Uryant of Middleburv
1 'olleite tas tin- ii-st witness for
Hie nlaintiffs lie oxplainiil maps
or the disputed land and inlluinlhi:
kinds drawn 1 him in neeonlanee with
surveys made In him m 17. Mr. Marsh
oT llranilnii, .1 tinner part owner or the
snip in iiiosiion and one nf the attorneys
in the ease, wa.- tho nest witness and his
Itlvcn a rislne vote of thanks for I testimony moh up most of the rest or the
manv kind acts to Hie society and its dtiN.
members. I Ki-and jurj rnpoited at two o'clock
.1 C. S. Hamilton of Rrldport nominated ( 1bls afternoon throuith Foreman Thayer.
election to the oirice ni i i ncv ri-norieu 0110 mil mil lonnd and no
Col llslev for re-'
(Irst vice-piesidenl. whhh was also
unanimously done, as well ius that ot Wil
liam c. Hack of Orwell for second vice
president. I'lank C Dyer or Salisbury
was ie-ebeteil seirelarv ami Cliarh-s l".
Roiters tte.isurer. The follnivln-i directors
were elected fin tlneo icnis eai h John
II Donnelly of Veritonnes. I'lank W.
Williams of Whi'iiift. l.uclus Avery nf
I'ei-risburit. nnd Truman C Vanu-y of
Hrlstol; auditors, .lohn A. I'letcber and
Joseph M. Ilurke of Mlilillclmry and
Charles A. Chapman of FeirisburK.
Willis M. fails' nf Middle-bury made a
motion, which was secnnilo'l bv President
John M. '.hennas of the Middle-bury Col-Ic-ne,
Unit the association appropriate HOI
to assist in the mlil-wlnttr stoe-k show
which has been held here the past few
sears nt the Flilted States Koiernmcnt
farm.
This completed the business of the meet
Inc and the rest of the afternoon an on
lei iiilniuciil was itiieu liy flu- llostonian
M.le Quartet.
AUTO SERVICE COMPANY.
true bills In a written report they stated
that so far as they wen- able to (to thev
found lh.it the interest of Hie public moll
e.is hail been piopetlv bandied by the va
rious low 11s and that the 1 emeteries and
hU'lfbwa.is In illffeient towns had
beep properlv looked after. Thev recom-iiu-nitei!
seveial minor linprovenients in
lin- iiiunls jail, parileiilarly an ade-rpiate
s.isteni of -iit 1 fon and n new conerete
llooi In V 1 1 ' main loom to rcplai'p Hie old
iron and cracked marble Moor. Thev were
then (liselMiKod
.Indite Stanton this aflernnun nrrerrd.
If the jur wished. 1,1 lake a icicss rrom
IV. 11 to four o'clock in oiilei lo iiik, the
.inrvinen and other.-, connei ted with Hie
1 art a chain to .illcnd the annu.il meet.
Im; of tin' iddison Couniv Aitru ultural
sooieiv. bin none of the lurop. evpreiseil
a dcslle to .iiteiid .iml the woik of Hie
coiirl ral .iloi'.K to Hie ii nal hour of
niljoiii nun ir . M ( k
"TRI TSTY" ESCAPES PROM
HOUSE OF CORRECTION
niateriallv to the 'iiiriien linposctl on un- nroim-iu -i.i ceinr. .ne. .-.1
1 imm ssiiui bv other pelidilik- iii'iulrier.. ' Mr .mil Mr-. Ai hie I.al'.n-ke an- In
In id.lilloii dopartmotit ,.trli-als a n- Fl nee to visit Mr. and Mrs. John
understood to be e-onslil. riiu; the ad ! I.alirako -John II. I.01. U and family
ilsabilitv of InvestluatltiB sueli oritan - tnoM-il .Molulav to Rutland, where Hi. y
l.ations as tin- Chicak-o lto ird '.r Trail. '. -spool t- make (heir home. Mr. Doiett
the Chleaito Putter and 1 3 Kir Kselian':.-. lakimt a po.-inon as cari.-r Willi the
the I31itin Rend nf Trade, and tin- New tireon Moiinlain Maihl- eoinpan.v. Mr.
yr; iTodi Suitar anil CofT. o Fs- l...etl has been a n siilent ol Mlddlebury
chin-os with 1 1 lew to .iscertaiiiinit lor many yuirs and has boon hiithl.i
hv what pra. tices the market i nines esti enied here, liavimt f'.r several sears
of i-.-rt.iln foodstuffs dealt In by the bn.-n a member of the hoaid of tiiistees
bodies arc determined. An in.iuirv and a prominent member or the Middle
into the amount of foodstuffs bold in bury hand.-i luiiloon 13. Ahhy is III
ill the co'.l storaite . stabllshmctits of Jani.-s A. Smith, now onsul-Koneral at
the coiintri .Hid posslblj as to Hi.- vol- Calcutta. India, Is In town on a several
nine of ttr'.iln stored In .levators also wicks' vacation. Mr Smith was I. ir
is said to be under consider 1 1 Inn meily for several years one ..f the ,,in
' Complaints have ,-ea, hcl the depart ' --ials and leadiiut pirii. in H' Rrandon
imnt that coal prices were advanced ! Dalian .Mm hie cmiipniiv In n Previous
re'oontlv hoe-.ii.se. In laiB- moasiir. . ..r 1 " K"in to Cah utta lie wns consiil-itc,,.
... r ooi inh, iod,.oc.,,l..i.t ! nil at Naples -Mrs l . II Moore of
""""' ... , r 1.. .. ,. ., r,t.
110011001 oku, . 1 , ii- ni t"" -
Wil-
The bos soe ial which was hold,
Friday evenimt al the ri innieee Metho-
dist Hpiscoijal Chnreli nt n.irnuintow 11 '
was successful, nettlni,' tin- l3pworth '
l.i uftuo societs, under whose auspices I
it was held, JLl.Tt. The bops wer. put I
up at auction, Hie highest hid Tor a box
lieiiiK Jl'.li. A musical program cnslst
Imr or an orftan reeitHl and selecMnns on
a vlctrola was carrieel mil fieuiu-s were
played and rcfroshniont.s were sersed. A
I. -attire of the evenimt was ,1 fish-pond.
Red Cross scaU liuvo been placed on
sale at the followinj; stores T. Xe'Ville,
W. H. .V W. S. Rn.tiol. William R. War
ner A- Co., W. A. .S: W. R. Pairs mple
and C. W. Walsh. Miss Flora Ronton of
l-'erri.-biire; is usiilne; Alisi Fliia Ilcn
t'Ui. Mrs. Charlc-s- A. fliapinan and
lainthter, .Mis" Harriet, nr.- slsitins
Niw York. Mrs. Hnttiu Crysler of Kan
s is Cliv has elosiel her summer home,
r.e ven.-nest, at Hit- lake and is spendlnit
some time nt Uie home of her brother,
W. H. Child The R. v. and .Mrs. Wil
liam l.-111-.'blon left Monday monuti't for
I'.ostnn, wlnre they will attend the Ver
mont Raptist ministers' ciwivention, to
bo held fm.ii December 3 to 0. Thev
will also attend tin- Hilly Sunday moet
Injts. Mr. and Mrs. I.. A. Shepard of
Fair Haven, Mr. and Mrs. Carl Sheparil
or Pittsrord, Mr and .Mrs. John Williams
anil children of Proctor and Miss I.
I.eilam of Forrlsburtt were recent ftueats
ro-.-uT.uinn' and "the menace of militar
ism," presented by pioposals Tor uni
versal military s.-riice.
Sroech' s lauding Mr. Rryan a ml partic
ularly his work for the party during tlie
campalitn just Won were made hi many
"f tho diners, and a letter w,i read from
President Wilson with whom the former
Secretary and Mrs. Rryan had ! ichcet
iluritKt the day. Tlie President wrote:
"Will ton not be kind enouKh to con
vey my very e-nrdial greetings to Mr
Rryan and to those who ,,r.- assemblejl
to do him honor at tin- dlnn r m W 'd
neselay I'VPiilii-;'' In the lecent i-ninpaiirn
no one rendered moro 1111-elfish crvico
than .Mr. Rt.ian. and t am happy to know
that this dinner expresses the itenuine
admiration of all democrats for him. May
I not by this means innw--- to I irn my
warmest con-tr.ttulat!oi..s ami I., st wishes
for his continued health and h ipplness?"
In revlcwlim- at b-rnttli the an ompllah
menti of the democratic administration,
Mr. Rryan said the work li.ul been dona
In one shcrt tcnii "under Hi. leadership
nf a (treat democratic presiden', los'ally
supported by a Connress eiiualls' demo
cratic." It.'ftardint; railroad regulation and mili
tary service, lie said :
"An effurt is now be iiik maeh by th"
railroads to secure bitislatlcn and if
necossars' a constitutional am. ndmcnl,
c'eprivinit lin- Statts of all icgulative
power over them and ftivim; to Congress
exclusive control over railrrtid reftula-
m 1 tion. The 'i uisolidation of all railroad
IcKislatlon at Washlnsnon would not onls'
transfer to the national capital an amount
(if wurk which would overwhelm the na
tional authorities, and therefore decrease
the 1 llicicncy of federal supervi3lon, hut
it would brini; a railroad intluetice into
the election of cvi-rs' corntres.-man and
eveiy senator as well as Intensify the.
railroads' Imprest in pre.sidinii.il cam
p.ii'tns. "It would do more than that It would
i.bhterate State line?, anil lead to a cen
tralization which woulil threaten tint
vers" existence of our dual form of kov
ernmenl. "W cannot afford to shut onr eye.i
of Mr. and Mrs. Ileonre Deyeild .Indite :
Warren Peek spent ThanlisKlvimt ,ti, to the menace of mllitiirisin as it i now
his sister. Mrs. James Hayward of Mont-1 presented in concrete Mrm. A larfto in
crease in the number 01 army aim navy
dealers, not lu retofore ill the business,
who are reported to lutic contracted
wlth the chief coil conipaiilos for 1 ir
tually their entire unsold output for
the wlntti- It 's i-harmd that these
dealers, n-eiitinc: fat profits, had tried
to (oniei tin- .iv.iilable supp'y and thus
fnroi d up pri' es.
Proposals in Con-tress looking tn a reni
cdv tor the pioblem raiutod from a (11---eussion
of 'he cunnihns hnli lierios bill,
which would preside for tll- batch. tics
in States, to ,1 declaration by Chairman
llein-v of the rules committee, after a
coiife'rene e with Hie President, that he j
thoiiitht Coiutipsswoiild conduct an lines-
Heat Ion of Hie '''I-'" ,,f Hvinir. Thev 1
1 inhraeeil lesolutions ny Kepresentaiix es
Holland and lull, pnividinu for -.-eneral
InveHtlKullons, a rnsoliilloii by P.eprosen
tho Campbell "f Kansas, which would
provide fm " emharuo on boots, shoes
and maiiiir.'u lured leather uoods, and a
bill bv Repicsoiitative Sah.it h of Illinois,
ilesiitnod I" aid feder.il einploies to meet
Hie situation by Incroashut from in lo
''n per eon' I he salaries of those eainlum
up lo Jl.scn annnally
WITHDRAWS FROM STATE.
Cllslllllf.t 1
I rlcss
Molill" lb
I ndlsciii ered DlsenNeH.
lii'land Dec ).- National medical ex-
uo. itlon day "as well observed heif
das, i'i-t persons from all iner the
untv presenting thenistnes at Hie Rut- St.
ml hospital wheie Is physicians Kavn,Tli
1 ei.Mro mornllik' I." free
all persons who appi-are-d
re laritnly children, It Ix-inn arraimed
at iioiiei who took uilvantaito of Hie
iportunity would n-ceiio absent inaiks
schnnl,
Ino well developed e ase of consumption
hie Ii had not boon tecoKiiled was ills-
1 1 i.n. ..r 1 .... 1 , .1 .1 1
1 hen lllosi were dlsioveicl. One cam
a 1 on tuition- dl.-case win Ii I. nl not
en placed under cpiaiaiinne aiipe-areu
id pleurlss hionihltls, discisid lonsils,
Iptiolds nnd deformed e-liesi- weie ib--ivered'
Rutland plissii 1. 111- will einli 1 '
make the examination ilu un annual and I (1 Russell
uu sw lor a uuii,
loliiisbiir Ii em liienrpiiralrs
it till Clliillll nr K.-.U,(IUII.
.Meiiitpeller, Dec fi-The Verinonl A1110
Seivico conipany of SI. Johnsbury lias
llleil articles of corporation In Hie soe-re-laty
nl slate's olllee for the purpose of
ilolnit a Itoiieral aiiloinohlle business III
Inhnshiiry ami adjaeenl lerrifory
siibscribcis nr.- Stanley and Paul
examination Webster of St Jolinsbury and S C Pai;
Thn patienls I ker of Huston, with capita! slock of
-t;-ii,ii"u.
Cow Sold for $1,1-10.
Ural Reborn, Dec. C,. Tlie llflh sale of
the- I'm o II red Livestock Sales company
elosed to-diis with 11 lotnl of i.M'i paid
for I'll he-ill of llolKleius The nveniHo
III 1. 1 i, 11. 1 was Hie hinhesl lil'oiiiKO of
in.-, sale The hl-jhui pi Ii o paid was
l tin Im .1 ... I.ouehi ,,Hv hs F II
M't -.r 111 I Inl 1 .ike M o,s , and tieorje
1 '( moi 1 f t he Ii i' Depot I. I'r.it'
uf f ullinitsvillo puld
1 Rutland. Dec fi It was m.1,1,. public
ti'-d.iy by olbcl.ilh of the house of cor
reeilon that Perlev LiiI-'ukh. a trusty, cs
i.i,ied from Hie institution Tuesday nlitht.
1 The man was 1 oniiuittoil Im ir, 'months
ftoiu HelloivH I'nllH reir petit larceny and
hail iitili onn mine month to serif, lie is
Hie lust pilsoner Supciinicndcut . .
Lonkes has lost in two and a half wuis.
La Fuifjt 1.4 in poor lie.ilth and is n-iy
! lame from 1 licuinntlsui Hei-ause of his
' Inliiinilii s be was itiien llitht hihors, Hie
ll-aie of the illlekelis holm; Ills onlv Joh,
II was while evlnit the ninlii eo, Hint
I he left and his absence was not dlsiov.
je'ii'd lor some time. He is :if, jears old.
j "f Hum dark complexion and weighs
I nbenit 1(f) poiinih'
imipniis Soils IIiisIui-sn (n
I 'iiuiiiiu of lii-ene, . 11.
r. Dec fi-Not ten has been re-
Icelvitl bS Hn liuiiinnee (lepartiinnt of
H. state 1 1 iii t the Casually Compans of
lAmerlia. a N'- Hampshire enrpnniHon,
lias willidriiMii ironi siinioni. hnvliut
soli) lis biislnes.- 111 im- i-i-eiiess Casnally
coinpiinv ol Iseein. ,n . n. , ri iintuniza
Hon ol the coiiiiuiliy Is said lo he uinli 1
w ay.
OATHS. YAM" FODTRALI, CAPTAIN
New Hindi. Colin. Dec (i -AHuiius I,
Hales "I' Flint. rn. !" was Io-hIkIiI
electid captain of IIk- Yale lootball I. inn
nest season. 1 as nepti on III
is ill tnwn for
elavs at the home of Mr. nnd Mrs
I111111 II Stokes. Mrs. Abliie 13. Willey and
Miss Llleil II. Willey, who haie boon
iisillmt at the homo of Mr. and Mrs.
13. .1. Willis for a week, have returned
p. 'I'lconderoitn, N V -Harrison Smith
has returned to Rutland after a lew days'
visit al tin- home of bis patents. Mr.
and Mis. A Ii. Smith Miss Hertrude
Firkins lias jtone tn llai'dwlnk. ciillei! by
the illness of In r sister Prof A. D.
Wltherall of Mlilillebury Collofte. who lias
In on III Tor a wnk rrom the iirects of
eatchinit cold, which scttbd into the
lioad. wns taken lo t lie Mmy Fh teller
hospital Monday mnrnimt bv Dr. S. S.
Fdily M'ss Catherine Wood of 1, limner,
1 tie! , daiiKhler of Wilbur Wood, a tut 1111 r(
well known business man ol tin.- -. iiiukc,
is in town to visit Hie Misses Lillia ( al
hoiiu and Mm rel u uim 1
Mrs W. .1 White is .-peinliii .1 .o.inle
or weiks witli her mother. Mrs ' S.
Russell, ill Shelbiirne. allef who Ii the
will neciinipans Dr. While to New York
city to spend the w inter. JII..K Herlha
Plioiir of Woodbury Center and Mrs.
Fred Pri.-iir of AiliiiKioti. who have In eu
snendiiiL' a week with Ihoir parents, Mr.
poller. Miss Mary Anuis is visitmit
inonils in Charlotte Mr. and Mrs Carl'
I .e Joes' of New Unveil attended the funeral ,
nf Mrs. Peter lkirrows. I
Mts. Launi P. Smith, widow of I'.dson
I Smith of Addison, died Nose.mbor : nt 1
the bonio of her son, Harry Smith, of
i''.ildwoll, Idaho. The body was broiiitht
(here and film nil serines were held
Wednesday at two o'clock at the Baptist
chuich, Addison. Ks-Postina.stcr and
Mrs. Thomas Mack went last week tn
isit their daughter, .Mrs inhpld L.
Moore, of Tarrytnwn. N. Y -James c I
R.ian or Hydii Park visited his daughter. 1
Ihleen, .lild 1,011. Jaini-s. at ihe home oil
bis sister, Mrs. Robert Hudi.on. Sinukc - .
William Clark, who has Ik on suffoi iim
wlih a curbum-le on tlio liack of his nock,
lias resumed his studies at tlio Vcntuniie.i
hllth school. Mr. and Mrs Urorito K.
Stone left Tuesday for Cohbleskill
N. Y., to vital t their ilauKhtor. -Mrs. II. L
1 Imit. ! R.1II1 went Monday on a de 1
huntiliK trip to Ripton. J. c .Mold liaa
mushed wor'c as 1 nef at the Stevens
House and returned to Rtirlinstton Wil.
ham and Robi-it .laiiunry have ftono in
Huston to attend the funeral of their sis.
lor, Mrs. Anna Hudson, who died Suiidas'.
- .Miss Marjono Lee, who h.is been spend
lint the Thanksitii lilt: vacation with her
parents, Mr and Mis. F A. l.ee. lcturticl
t estertlas' to her duties a. teacher in the
liristol hifth se ho..!. .Mrs. I., c, Whltfcrd
is visttlnrv TSIrs. W. D. Woodman ..f Wal
tliam. William N'.ilway lias ftono to
1 Rutland, where he has employment --Mrs.
Morgan and dans-liter, Miss Mildred Slur
R.111 of liristol, were week-end visitors to
I their ilaiiuhter and sisler, .Mis. Frank M.
1 Honors. Mis. Oentite Hidden is suf.
D-ritiir finin an attack of tmi
sums Harold Ooodiidite has returned to
1 SptliiKileld after a visit to hi,- mother.
R. D Uoodrlilito Miss Alice .Merrill has
' itmie lo Manchcsttr Center to spend the
and Mis Piieiir, have rel11111.1l to their wlnteiwltli .1 1 oiisui. h. oodinau has re
I,, nuns --.Mrs. Lucy Crane, who lias been 1 turned floin a visit to his brother, Dana
visitllut hi Lewistin, N S . and Ronton IT Woodmaii of Hiooklyn. N Y., and Wll
1 1 11 1 Imr, Mich , lias 1 etui lied linmi . accoiii-1 ll.nn Woodman jf New Haven, C01111.
hv hoi brother. Nelson (I .lewilt there win no a teachers ineettint ror
the leacbers or
.1
II DAVIS OF OLA R FN 1 11 IN DPAD
P. . In 1 nl. I'.'c ii Jinlsoii II Davis, rep.
lesinfatlve i.r He town or I 'I nlm,
Mel eulsl.it lie i.r !''! nnd 'oivn 1 lei k and
' 1 1 a ill ' 1 and 1 hoc 1II1 . o- ,.t ihei
t ine of death, died . d ,1 , home in
.Ninth I l.-irenilnn lie was born in Shrews.
I bury iu JIc la turvls ed by liia tvUe.
two ye-ais as an e-nd and
f( vi
va rslt.v eleven
tackle.
CONVICT Ml'RDNRS ANOTIIRR
Aiibitii'. N- V' '''-Wdlliiiii .1. Wir-
no a cons lei In Auburn piisou, was
Hlabhcd lo death late to-day, titlo liniiter,
liliolli'-l con V i' I . wll" woikcl n, iVl ,..
nor In Hi'' cabinet shop, 1. aoeiis, d ,.v
tin- prlsn'i authorities of Hp- crime.
MiRW F.i 1 1 AS' SHIPS SI'S' Is
Loinl.'ii I'1"' 11 ,ls ''"I"" m e the
sinklUK "f N,,in'"-h"i stcimaliips
Riisil. '.I''- lum Susd, and Druupncr, 1.-
k UUU3.
naiii
ol Ronton llaiboi -w un. im lit111"'"""'
an olllcei- ol Ihe Till New 01 Itr inlaiil 1 y,
is visltim.' hi.- mother. Mrs. .1 I.. Rich
mond of Seniinaiv sin-it - Miss Minnie
N Dodite has loiurueil floin I'rocl'.i'.
when- sin- has been ill fm Iwo weeks
al Hie home of In-i parents, Mr and Mis.
Cluiilcs I indue. William Damon bus re
turned l" Sudbury after several days in
Fast Mlilillebury. A W. M.i thews,
who has spent ten da.vs in this viciuits.
has U-turned lo Middle town Spillii's.
Mis. l'liincls Thomas and sisler. Miss
Helen Lockwood, have reliiiiied to
Rochester, N V., lifter HpendlnK leu
das s hi 10
A Iplomaiii was reeeived about mid
nlltlil Tiiesdas lelUntt of serious injuries
o John Mi-Cray, IT-year-old smi of Mr.
ii'iul Mrs. Thomas Mt-Crav of ashiiuttoii
street. In 11 uillroad neeldent at Lowc'l.
Mass No elotalls nf the accident wore
ftlven, the leloKTiini niPiely slallm: that
the nuns' man's condition was lel'imis
A little lali-i- a telephone inessaite canio
Hail the t nuiii: man bad died from liM
lii.lune'- He is s.irvived by Ills paients,
live' slsiei- Mis il R Smith of Rode.
Iowa. Ml- W C Nivlnr Miss l'11iboth
Mi Nilli.sn and M "-1 Diu'i'tl'v Mel r.n.
nnd live brothers, llimi, Junes. Dnnal'.
Guoruo aJid Uoyd McCruy of thla vllltVo'O.
Ihe Addison Ni.ithwesl
I ti 1 n l-ridas and all the si bonis in the
union will be closed on thai day The
inootlmt will open at lij'Ofl a 111 in tin
Venti'iini .. hiith school iomn and feach
iis are ospocteil 10 be on hand promptly
at that time. Tlio moctiiiK svlll he pri
nun il.v for teachers, thous'h the public
is Invited so far as loom and acconiiuo
dale. Tlie teat hers will lake an active
part ill the discussions follow Iiik the a. I -diesscs
of ihe speakers Proiriuiu: I0.:ifl,
Plot Ndwaid D. Ci lllns, head of the
Mlildlehiir.v Colleue peilaKoaiciil depail
meiil, "S'i'eatioiiiill.iiiK 1 3cliii-at ion With
,a View lo llelplmt ToueliPis to Sound
1 Priiiclplcs I pon Whhh to Rullil In Mak
iiiu Scli'i-'l Woik Mue Practical" The
alleriionii nieetliiK v.lll open at 1:1.. with
'a falk on "T.aihors and Ideals" b.v Prin
Iclpal Cluiilcs A. Aihtins ol the Casllcloli
'nornial scIiik.I. I'ollowlmt this a deinoii
Sliallon of "lToitress Road Readini;" Is
partly provided for. The last pail of Ihe
i afu riiooii pioiinim will be in chars-e of
'Stale Commissioner of Nducallon Mllo
ill IlillcK'is, who will lalk oil tin- sub
ject of "Arithmetic Tciichin." The 1 vo-
liliiit iiieellliir will be mien 1- a h 1 tun
11. 1 d.-cii--.n on 'AmicnlHiral Club
ollicei's dravviriit salaruv fc-r lire, and
trained in a proiession which teaches re
liance upon Hie steel blade rather than
on the sword of truth, lends to substitute
false standards of honor for the more
peaceful standards that pm-itl amotijt
tlie producers ot wealth
"It Is not unnatural that tho maanifs--init
of the profession nf nrms shoulel itivo
support to tho proposal for universal mili
tary service, 11 svitciii which Is not only
unnecessary, but the adoption of which
coiilel not rail to breed that ml' tary spirit
which ha ( '.'it ributed so lnr---ly to the
cncouraitemi in of war in nth ' lands"
To inform the voters of 'iin.- lens under
consideration at an election Mr. Rrjan
proposed the publication of a (. overnment
bulletin with space dividi d anions politi
cal parties accr.rdine; to sotinp; strength
lie also suc-Rosted that newspapers, In
return for their malliiiK prinlerfeji, should
be required to itive certain space for
in.ii'er tho kos eminent desires published
The elis-toral college tin termed
clumsy and .lanrernus. ind asserted
th.it some plan should he devised bv
which tho voters can vote d rectly for
the president.
Stipcestlni? that the Constitution be
rhatiftetl to make it 1 lore easily amend
able, he s.ii.l "I venture to suptvtest
that the rule ot tlv people would be
more sc-euro hv a i onstituticmal amend
ment norrnittlntr a chanite in our or
it-inic law. when
hoiism in two suec(
submit an amendment
inent is r.ititied bv a
St.l t.-S. prnv l.lrd the
receives a in.iu.ritv o'
on that proposition in
Nollil Soft' 1- 1-
nnon w-liiPb all parties were
tin- last 0.111. p.iittn. their diffiTencs
relatliic onlv to the method of seeur
inn tin reform While the democratic
and n publican partli s fall, d to .-i in
mil themselves to a national amend
ment we ninth t t- vvill re.OKnlze the
fact that a nation H aniciitlmpnt will
come when the refoi 111 is adopted In .1
.'iifflcli-nt number d states to make its
adoption bv tin- nation probable Tho
Demoeratli- parts has ospei lal rc tson
lor rouardini; vvoman sutTraftc with
favor at this time, since the Influen 0
of the women In the close Stjiti s vv. s
sufficient to determine the result
"I have saved for the last the reform
which, vvill involve Ihe llereest con est anil
Willi h will when accomplished, brlllK tho
l.iritest bene'it. namely abolition of the
saloon
"Tin- Democratic party IiiivIiik vvon wlh
out the alii ol the wet cities and having
leeched Hie suppiu t of neurit all the pro.
hlhlllon States, and the States wlu'iei
woinen vole, is released from any oblifa
tion to the liiiuor tratlii It Is free to tale
Ihe moral side ol this meat moral issue,
and I have n" doubt that it will llvo up
to lis opportunities and obllitatlnn.
"The arijunient that national prohibition
is an assau'i upon the rik'hts of thn
Slates, has ill He i.e-.uht Iu the States
which have abends adopted prohibition
and lis weis'hl in H 11.1t iml will there
lute diminish a, the
iMi.ioritv of both
I'SSise OOIlKTCSSes
mil that amend
majortty of the
amendment also
all the votes cast
all the States
th.- one question
aitfeed in
(Loiitimii'ii uu vuee (u u.)
tion State-
WeillU'l
fac's of
lklnd!
nmiHi. of prohr
111.
. nl
t'-.o
i -e-
for fa ts -negotiable
