\
The Fort Mill Times .
Established in 1891. - FORT MILL, S. C.; THURSDAY, DECEMBER 7, 1916. $1.25 Per Year. '
CONGRESS HEARS
ILSONmSSAGE
President's Address to Both
Houses Is Quite Short.
PAIL TROUBLES COME FIRST
Further Legislation on That Line Is
Strongly Recommended?bill Giving
Foreign Commerce Promoters
Free Hand Necessary.
Washington, Dec. 5.?President Wilson
today delivered his message to
l/UUI uuuocn VI VUU^I roo 111 JUIUl OCO
slon. The address was as follows:
<5entlemen of the Congress:
In fulfilling at this time the duty Inld
upon me by the Constitution of communicating
to you from time to time
Information of the state of the Union
and recommending to your consideration
such legislative measures as may
be Judged necessnry and expedient I
shall continue the practice, which I
hope ha j been acceptable to you, of
leaving to the rei?orts of the several
heuds of the executive departments the
elaboration of the detailed needs of
the public service and confine myself
to those matters of more general public
policy with which It seems necessnry
and feasible to deal at the present
session of the congress.
I realize the limitations of time under
which you will necessarily net nt
this session und shall make my suggestions
as few as possible; but there
were st.me things left undone at the
last session which there will now be
time to complete and which It seems
necessary In the Interest of the public
to do at once.
In the first place. It seems to me Imperatively
necessary that the earliest
possible consideration nnd action
should he nccorded the remaining
measures of the program of settlement
und regulation which I had occasion
to recommend to you nt the close
of your last session In view of the public
dangers disclosed by the unaccommodated
difficulties which then existed,
and which still unhappily continue to
(exist, between the rnllroads of the
country nnd their locomotive engineers,
conductors, and trainmen.
Railway Troubles First.
I then recommended:
First, lmmedlnte provision for the
enlargement nnd administrative reorganization
of the Interstate commerce
commission along the lines embodied
In the bill recently passed by the house
of representatives and now nwaltlng
action by the sennte; in order that the
commission may he enabled to deal
with the many great and various duties
now devolving upon It with a promptness
and thoroughness which are, with
Its present constitution nnd means of
action, practically Impossible.
Second, the establishment of an
eight-hour day as the legal basis nllke
of work nnd of wages In the employ
ment or nil railway employees who nre
actually encased In the work of operating
trains In Interstate transportation.
Third, the authorization of the appointment
by the president of a stnnll
body of men to observe the netunl results
In experience of the adoption of
the eight-hour day In rnllway transportation
alike for the men and for
the railroads.
Fourth, explicit approval-by the congress
of the consideration by the Interstate
commerce commission of an
lncrense of freight rates to meet such
additional expenditures by the railroads
as mny have been rendered necessary
by the adoption of the elcht
hour dny nnd which huve not been offset
by administrative readjustments
and economies, should the facts disclosed
Justify the increase.
Fifth, an amendment of the existing
federal statute which provides for the
mediation, conciliation, and arbitration
of such controversies as the present
by adding to It a provision thnt. In case
the methods of accommodation now
provided for should fall, a full public
investigation of the merits of every
suah dispute shnll be Instituted nnd
completed before a strike or lockout
may lawfully be attempted.
And, sixth, the lodgment In the
hands of the executive of the power.
In case of military necessity, to take
control of such portions nnd such rolling
stock of the railroads of the country
as may be required for military
use and to operate them for military
purposes, with authority to drnft Into
the military service of the United
States such train crews nnd administrative
offlclnls as the clrcumstnnces
require for their safe nnd efficient use.
Renews His Recommendations.
The second nnd third of these recommendations
the congress Immediate1
r nof r\t? 11 ?~l- - -* 'v - * * *
V . ?. laiauiiniiril Uie t'lltlllhour
day as the legal basis of work
nnd wages In train service and It authorized
the appointment of a commission
to observe nnd report upon the
practical results, deeming these the
measures most Immediately needed;
hut It postponed action upon the other
suggestions "antll an opportunity should
he offered for a more deliberate consideration
of them. The fourth recommendation
I do not deem It necessary
to renew. The power of the Interstate
commerce commission to grant
an Increase of rates on the ground referred
to Is Indlsputnbly clear nnd a
recommendation by the congress with
regnrd to such a matter might seem to
drayr In question the scope of the commission's
authority or Its Inclination to
do Justice when there Is no reason to
doubt either.
The other suggestions?the Increase
In the Interstate commerce commission's
membership and In Its facilities
for performing Its manifold duties, the
provision for full public Investigation
and assessment of industrial disputes,
nnd the grant to the executive of the
power to control nnd operate the railways
when necessary In time of war
or other like public necessity?I now
very earnestly renew.
The necessity for such legislation Is
manifest nnd pressing. Those who have
Intrusted us with the responsibility
and duty of serving and safeguarding
them In snch matters would find It
hard, I believe, to excuse a fullure to
act upon these grave matters or any
unnecessary postponement of action
upon them.
Not only does the Interstate commerce
commission now find It practically
Impossible, with Its present membership
and organization, to perform
Its great functions promptly and thoroughly,
but It Is not unlikely that It
may presently be found advisable to
add to Its duties still others equally
heavy and exacting. It must first be
perfected as on administrative Instrument.
The country cannot and should not
consent to remain any longer exposed
to profound Industrial disturbances for
lack of additional means of arbitration
and conciliation which the co?gress
can easily and promptly supply.
And nil will agree thnt there must be
no doubt as to the power of the executive
to make Immediate and uninterrupted
use of the railroads for the concentration
of the military forces of the
nation wherever they are needed and
whenever they are needed.
This Is a program of regulation, prevention
and administrative efllclehcy
which argues Its own case In the mere
statement of It. With regard to one
of Its Items, the Increase In the efficiency
of the Interstate commerce commission,
the house of representatives
has already acted; Its action needs
only the concurrence of the senate.
For Control and Operation.
I would hesitate to recommend, and
1 dare say the congress would hesitate
to act upon the suggestion should I
make It, that any man In any occupation
should he obliged by law to continue
In an employment which he de
^?cu iu ivuve. mi pass a inw wnich
forbade or prevented the individual
workman to leave his work before receiving?
the approval of society In doing
so would be to adopt a new principle
Into our Jurisprudence which 1
take It for granted we are not prepared
to Introduce. Hut the proposal that
the operation of the railways of the
country shall not be stopped or interrupted
by the concerted action of organized
bodies of men until a public
Investigation shall have been Instituted
which shall make the whole question
at issue plain for the Judgment of the
opinion of the nation Is not to propose
any such principle. It Is based upon
the very different principle that the concerted
action of powerful bodies of men
shall not be permitted to stop the Industrial
processes of the nation, at any
rate before the nation shall have had
an opportunity to acquaint Itself with
the merits of the case as between employee
and employer, time to form Its
opinion upon an Impartial statement
of the merits, and opportunity to consider
all practicable means of conciliation
or arbitration.
I can see nothing In thnt proposition
but the Justifiable safeguarding by so
ciery or the necessary processes of
Its very life. There is nothing arbitrary
or unjust In It unless it be arbitrarily
and unjustly done. It can and
should be done with a full nnd scrupulous
regard for the iuterests and liberties
of all concerned as well as for the
permanent interests of society itself.
Other Legislation Urged.
Three matters of capital importance
await the action of the senute which
have already been acted upon by the
house of representatives: the bill
which seeks to extend greater freedom
of combination to those engaged in promoting
the foreign commerce of the
country than is now thought by some
to be legal under the terms of the laws
against monopoly; the bill amending
the present organic lnw of Porto Klco;
and the bill proposing n more thor
ough and systematic regulation of the
expenditure of money In elections, commonly
called the Corrupt Practices Act.
I need not lnl?or my advice that these
measures be enacted into law. Their
urgency lies In the manifest circumstances
which render their adoption at
thfs time not only opportune but necessary.
Uven delay would seriously
Jeopard the Interests of the country
and of the government.
Immediate passage of the bill to regulate
the expenditure of money In elections
may seem to be less necessary
than the Immediate enactment of the
other measures to which I refer; because
at least two years will elapse
before another election In which federal
ofllces are to be tilled ; but It would
greatly relieve the puh'lc mind If this
Important matter were dealt with
while the circumstances ami the dangers
to the public morals of the present
method of obtaining and spending
campaign funds stand clear under recent
observation and the methods of
expenditure can be frankly studied In
the IfKi^t of present experience; and a
delay would have the further very serious
disadvantage of postponing notion
until another election was at hand
and some special object connected with
it might be thought to be in the mind
of those who urged It. Action can be
taken now with facts for guidance and
without suspicion of partisan purpose.
I shall "not argue at length the desirability
of giving a freer hand In the
1 mutter of combined and concerted effort
to those who shnll undertake the
essential enterprise of building up our
export trade. That enterprise wiU
t >
presently, will Immediately assume, j
Bus Indeed already assumed, a magnitude
unprecedented In our experience. ]]
\Ve have not the necessary Instrumentalities
for Its prosecution; It Is t
deemed to be doubtful whether they |
could be created upon an adequate |j
scale under our present laws. We
should clear away all legal obstacles
and create a basis of undoubted law
for It which will give freedom without R
permitting unregulated license. The
thing must be done now, because the
opportunity is hero and may escupe us
If we hesitate or delay.
Porto Rico's Needs.
The argument for the proposed |
amendments of the orgnnic law of Porto
Ilico is brief and conclusive. The
present laws governing the island and
regulating the rights and privileges of *
Its people are not just. We have created
expectations of extended privilege
which we have not satisfied.
There is uneasiness among the people
of the Island and even u suspicious
doubt with regard to our intentions
concerning them which the adoption of \
| the pending measure would happily re- j i
move. We do not doubt what we wish i
to do in nny essential particular. We (
ought to do It at once. ' t
There are other matters already ad- j c
vnnced to the stace of conference be- .
w 1
tween the two houses of which It is 1
not necessary that I should speak.
Some practicable basis of agreement
concerning them will no doubt be found
and action taken upon them.
Inasmuch as this Is, gentlemen, probably
the last occasion I shall have to
address the Sixty-fourth congress, I
hope thnt you will permit me to say
with what genuine pleasure and satisfaction
I have co-operated with you In
the many measures of constructive policy
with which you have enriched the
legislative annnls of the country. It
has been a privilege to labor In such
company. I take the liberty of congratulating
you upon the completion of
a record of rare servlceableness and
distinction.
Bound to Make Good.
The well-dressed stranger stepped
into the drug store and, passing by
the boy who usually nttended to casual
who was arranging some goods In the
show case.
"Mr. C , I presume?" he remarked,
pleasantly, and the druggist ,
turned and howed gravely. "1 have j
heard iny friend, Mr. Quorn, speak of j
you often," said the hrlsk man. "lie :
told me if ever I needed anything in i
this line to come to you. He spoke of
you as a man on whom one could rely
with perfect confidence, who had only
the best of evrythiug and with whom
it was always a pleasure to deal."
"Mr. Quorn is very kind," answered
the other, beaming with gratification.
"He is one of by best customers. What
can I do for you this morning?"
"Well?er?this morning, as it happens,"
said the stranger, with Just a
little briskness, "this morning I should
like, if you will allow me, to consult
your directory."
"Certainly," was the calm reply. "We
also have a good selection of one and
two-cent stamps as well as railway
time tables, if you need anything of
that kind."
Franklin Objects Seriously.
She Isn't very large, that's true, but
being a county seat, and boasting of
a college, several factories, flour mills,
railways, Interurbans and her lately
npnnipn/1 \f ncAnl/* Iv aimn I?pii nlrltn #oolu $
that she Is not a town to he passed :
lightly by. In fact, she knows her tin- 1
portnnce, and thought that everyone In j
the state realized It until she was
taken down a bit lately. During the !
big conference of the Methodist j
churches held recently in the town a j
meeting of the Indianapolis presbytery '
was in session at the same time at
Hopewell, u country church In a pros- j
porous farming community a .few j
miles out. One of the Presbyterian
delegates, on leaving the train Joined
In the throng headed for the Methodist
church. When it came to registering,
some of his Inquiries cnused
someone to suggest that probably he ;
was In the wrong place, and he usked j
innocently: "Isn't this Hopewell?" j
No, this Is Franklin, was the proud i
reply.?Indianapolis News. (
: 4 . )
Rather Embarrassing. i
Irvtn Cobb, the war correspondent,
home from Europe long enough recently
to get his breath and look over the
proof sheets of n new book, attended ,
an nuthors' banquet In New York.
A deaf man sat next to Cobb. Farther
down the table another man told
a funny story, and when he finished,
the deuf man laughed and applauded
louder und longer than any of the
rest.
"Good old boy 1" shouted the denf
man. "That reminds me of u story," ha
added to those near by.
"Get up and tell It, Charlie," cried
several. The toastmastsr sanctioned
the suggestion.
Then the denf man got up and told
the same story the other man had told.
He Was on the Joh.
The undertaker arose and suld to
tl?e mourners assembled:
"If anyone present wishes to say a
few words of tribute to the deceased,
now is the tlrue, when the fnieilv will
be glad to hear such."
A stillness prevailed, and after a
few moments of silence it was broken
by n young man, who arose and
asked:
"Do I understand thnt no one wishes
to make any remarks?"
"It would appear so," replied the
undertaker.
"Then." asked the young man, as a
light came Into his eyes, "may I be
permitted to make a few remark**
about southern California and its wonderful
cliinute?"
/
FiRST REGIMENT IS
BLAD TO BE HOME
tETURNS TO CAMP MOORE AFTER
THREE MONTHS?MUSTERED
OUT WEDNESDAY.
tEGIMENT VISITS COLUMBIA
>hysical Examination Was Concluded
In Two Days.?Men In Excellent
Health. ? Regiment Saddened by
Death of Capt. R. C. Jeter.
Columbia. ? Physical examination
vas concluded Saturday of tho First
South Carolina infantry, awaiting
mistering out and demobilization at
^amp Moore, and the regiment's visit
o Columbia Monday was the only incident
outside routine until tho comtallies
were started for their home
itations Wednesday.
The camp was saddened Saturday
>y news that the chapalin, Capt. R. C.
[eter, who had been left behind ill. had
lied at San Antonio. The only other
leath which has occurred in the reginent
since its mobilization was that
tf Sergeant Rlaloek of Company E
[Union), which took place in El Paso
tofore the Carolinians left the fronter.
Two special trains brought the solliers
to Columbia Monday morning.
:he first entering the union station ut
11:25 o'clock. The regiment marched
jp Main street, around the State
House, back into Main street and
thence to Elmwood avenue, east in
Elmwood to Laurel, west on Laurel to
Main; thence down Main street to
Lady street. A reviewing stand had
Seen built at Washington street and
the regiment gave a dress narade for
nation in Main street between Hanip:on
and Lady streets. Afterwards
irms were stacked-in Washington
street and the men were guests of
Columbia at a barbecue in ('raven
Hall. When dinner was over the solliers
were^allowed to attend motion
picture shows and other entertainments.
The trains returning to Styx,
he station for Camp Moore, left Coumbia
in the afternoon at 4:30
/clock. The public schools of Columjia
were 'dosed during the parade in
jrder that the school children may
welcome the soldiers home.
Camp Moore, Styx, Lexington Co.?
The First South Carolina infantry
las returned to Camp Moore at Styx,
n Lexington county after more than
hree months of brilliant service on
:he Mexican border. The regiment
night well be called a 100 per cent
egiment. This mark was obtained by
he regiment in every contest and on
me review a high army official asked
which "outfit" of regulars it was. The
nen are proud of the record that they
lave established. Col E. M. Illy the
s proud of his men. "\Ve are glad
:o get back to South Carolina," said
2ol. Blythe, as the men were marchng
from the railway station at Styx.
The first troop train arrived at
3tyx Thursday morning at 9 o'clock,
rhis train brought Col. Blythe and
:ompanles A, B. C and D. comprising
Lhe First battalion, under command
if Maj. R. F. Watson. One hour later
he men hnrt rlntrnlnnil and u/ora
marching up the road to the camp one
mile away. The second train arrived
several hours later, bearing companies
E. P, G and H. under command of
Maj. T. R. Spratt of Fort Mill. The
third section came in during the early
ifternoon bearing companies I, K, L
?md N. The headquarters and supply
companies came on the first section.
The machine gun company was with j
the second continent. The third sec- 1
tion, carrying the Third battalion, was
under command of Maj. E. C. von
Thesckow. Each section was made
up of nine Pullman cars, four bo*
c-ars, three baggage cars and one
freight caboose. The trains made an
average of about 18 miles an hour.
The men and officers of the First
regiment entrained at El Paso Saturday
afternoon, but did not get away
on the return trip to South Carolina
until Sunday morning at 10:80 o'clock.
There was only one accident to mar
the trip home. Wesley Hill Mulligan,
a private in the United States
army, who boarded the train en route,
fell from the train while crossing a
trestle near Atlanta and sustained Injuries
from which he died 20 minutes
later. Mulligan's l>ody was sent to
his relatives at Piedmont.
Capt. J. Malcolm Graham, IT. S. A.,
chief mustering officer, said that the
Anderson companies would be exam- j
ined first. Capt. Graham hopes to
have every company returned to its
home station hy next Saturday.
Company C of Pelzer, Capt. R. C. j
lleyward. was the first company to
inarch to Camp Moore after entrainCHAPLAIN
EXPIRES
IN BASE HOSPITAL.
Capt. Jeter of First South Carolina
Infantry Dies at San Antonio.
'Capt. R. C. Jeter, chaplain of the
Ffr?t South Carolina Infantry, died
Nov. .10 in the base hospital at San
Antonio, according to advices received
by Col. B. M. Ulythe at Camp Moore,
near Columbia. Capt. Jeter had been
ill for some weeks and the regiment
most.regretfully left him behind when
it returned from'tfte border. The interment
will be at Florence, Ala.
f
Ing. The company stacked Its Runs J
and began the erection of tents at I
10:45 o'clock. The other companies
arrived one after another and soon
the tents began springing up like
mushrooms. Fires were started in
the company kitchens and soon the
cooks were preparing the Thanksgiving'
day dinner. One thousand pounds
of turkey was put on the fire. Other
good things to eat had been secured
by MaJ. Frank W. Clenn. camp quartermaster.
The men are hardy and fit after
the several months spent under extensive
training 011 the border. Many
of the companies brought back mascots.
"Hurrah for South Carolina and to
h?11 with Texas!" was the well uttered
by a high private in the Laurens
company, as he began to erect his
tent. It was the first comment by
any of the the returning soldiers.
"It is good to be back in South
Carolina." said Col. Dlythe. "There
was practically no sickness among the
men and I feel very proud of the
record made by the boys on the long
hike of 110 miles."
Col. Blythe announced that Maj.
J. Shapter Caldwell of Charleston,
who has been acting as brigade adjutant,
had been appointed by the war
department assistant adjutant of the
Tenth provisional division.
Several regular army officers had
already arrived at the camp and the
work of checking up and mustering
out the companies began at once.
Capt. Graham is the chief mustering
officer. Lieut. Col. Henry Page, medical
corps, U. S. A., is the ranking offivers
who are assisting in mustering
out the regiment are: Capt. E. It.
Gibson. Capt. C. P. Pox. Capt. L. 1).
Booth. Pirst Lieut. W E. Duvall and
Capt. W. L. Hart. Capt. Hart is a
brother to O. F. Hart of Columbia.
Light Dragoons Patrol Border.
The Charleston Light Dragoons, of
whom more than a dozen are Colum
bians, spent Thanksgiving day patroling
the international boundary in the
vieinity of Anapra, N. M., and though
the troops was under order to return
to El Paso December 1. none of the
South Carolina cavalrymen know as
yet whether they will spend Christmas
at homo or at the frontier. Recently
the patrol duty has been lightened.
but this relief was compensated
by an increase in guard duty about
camp. Several times the sentries have
tired upon prowlers, probably smugglers.
"When wo first came here," a
member of tho troop writes, 'we were
content to waste our ammunition on
jack rabbits, cotton tails and California
quail. As the days rolled by several
.22 rifles and a shot-gun or so
were acquired and our hopes strentched
out until some of us brought In
ducks and doves; finally, one day,
Deas Boykin and McGowan Holmes
killed a coyote and now we are hunting
for mountain lions and wildcats."
"Today is the rawest day we have
had, the thermometer now registering
below freezing point. It turned cold
after a drizzling rain last night when
I was on guard; the mountains around
us?the Franklin rruige to the east
the Sierra Madre to the south and the
Organ mountains to the north?are
covered with snow; the Rio Grande
between us and the Franklins Is
fringed with ice. We also had a cold
snap about a week ago. but it was
nothing to what we are going through
now. Luckily we have small stoves
In our tents and by boarding a slow
freight that passes each morning
shortly after reveille, we manage to
pitch off some coal; our wood is sent
to us from El ~\nso, as there is nothing
here easily available except a discarded
crosstie from time to time.
"We have six men in the base hospital.
being treated for various ailments;
'Pop' (C. W.) Moorman's horse
fell with him on a macadam road and
'Pop' now liaa a broken bone in his
ankle; the same thing sprained another's
ankle; several of the boys
were kicked on the ankle or knee by
the horses, resulting in temporary incapacity
for work.
Second's Stay Indefinite.
Washington. ? South Carolinians
sending Chr'Minns gifts to members
of the National Guard on the border
must take their own chances as Secrotary
Haker refuses to predict whether
the troops will be at borne or on
the border for Christmas.
When his attention was called to
the fact that families and friends of
i uc ouitt ici n " > *> ? ? i? \| uunii ? i ^ li I UV'U
they did not know where the troops
would he on Christmas, Secretary
Ilaker said he could not help them.
Withdrawal of militia organizations
depends so much on future events,
particularly the action of Carranza
with reference to the protocol providing
Cor withdrawal of Gen. Perishing's
army and the outcome of the Villista
attack, that no war department officials
will forecast the probable date
of withdrawing any particular militia
i unit. However, war department officials
incline to the belief that it would
be physically impossible to bring
about a general withdrawal of militia
before Christmas.
When the mobilization order of June
10 was published, Mr. Jeter resigned
his Aiken pastorate, sent his wife to
the old home in Alabama and reported
for service. He worked hard during
the period of preparation at Camp
Moore and afterward at the frontier,
hut recently his heal'h broke down
from a complication of troubles and
for some woeks preceding his death
he was in the hospital. His is the only
death in the commissioned personnel
since the regiment was mobilized.
Ivjuw ui * api. jeier s lour cnwiren is
in the United States Navy.
MANY BILLS ARE TO i
LOWER FOOD COSTS
' NATION-WIDE INTEREST IN EF- i
FORTS TO REDUCE COST OF
LIVING.
EMBARGO IS NOT FAVORED
President Wilson Will Likely Deal
With Subject in a Special Message.
?Speeding up of Prograr.. is Urged
By All.
Washington.?The high cost of liv- j
ing and what steps the Federal Gov- :
ornment can take to control it .assum- ]
ed proportions as a national question
with the convening of Congress, j
which overshadowed all other issues !
in the tlrst day's proceedings.
Possibility that President Wilson
will deal with the subject in a special
| address grew stronger.
Eleven bills and resolutions, seeki
ing to check the soaring prices of
food by stopping shipments to Europe.
reducing parcel post rates on
foodstuffs or controlling cold storage,
were introduced in the house.
President Gompers and a committee
of the American Federation of
i,aLf.r called on President Wilson and
Asked him to appoint a special commission
to investigate the food question.
The President assured thein
j that the government would take some
! steps to meet the situation, lie is
understood to preter not to appoint a
commission as it practically would be
without authority to compel testimony;
while a congressional investigation
probably would mean a protracted
delay.
Reports being gathered by the Dei
partment of Agriculture are being laid
before the President as fast as they
are compiled and upon them he is
expected to decide on any action,
which undoubtedly will be prefaced
by a special address to congress.
One report submitted by Secretary
j Redfield and held confidential as yet.
I is understood to show a wide margin
between prices paid to producers and
| those paid by consumers. In a recent
i address the President virtually charg,
ed the middlemen with responsibilI
ity for the high cost of living.
RESIGNATIONS OF THREE U. S.
DIPLOMATS TENDERED WILSON
Washington.?The first resignations
from the diplomatic corps, which are
] expected to be the forerunners of oth'
ers as a consequence of President Wilson's
re-election and the closing of his
| first term, were announced.
Dr. Henry Van Dyke, minister to
i the Netherlands, has resigned and
; probably will be succeeded by John
' W. Garrett, of Baltimore, formerly
minister to Argentina. Dr. Van Dyke
I it was explained, has been concerned
| over his health for some time and also
' desired to return to his literary work
~ ] _ I.. *
. iiiin ltcuik tturumi nearly lour vims,
The resignation of Thaddeus A.
Thompson, minister to Coloml>ia and
William M. Hornibroolt. minister to
Siam. also were announced. Mr. Thomson
was appointed in 1913. Mr. Hornibrook
was appointed in 1915.
Some time ago it became known that
the government was expecting that
j members of the diplomatic corps would
i In acordance with custom, forward
their resignations.
AMERICANS IN CHIHUAHUA
SAFE SAYS LATEST REPORT
El Paso, Texas. -Reports telegraphed
by government agents to Washing)
ton that a number of foreigners had
been killed in Chihuahua City when
| Villa bandits occupied the town, were
mot with a statement by General TreI
vino, commanding Carranza forces
l r A^/WI HT\io/l tllO /.ntiil.il ?!?'? nelii ?
; few Chinese were killed during the
; time Villa occupied the cltyr
General Trevlno's statement tele!
graphed in response to an inquiry by
Andres Garcia, inspector general of
Carranza consulates, was taken by
Garcia to mean that no other foreigners
were killed. The informtion telegraphed
Washington was said to have
been obtained in Juarez.
Villa's bandits were retreating
north toward the border the night before
Chihuahua city was evacuated by
Carranza troops.
WIVES OF MISSOURI FARMERS
FIGHTING BAN ON EGGS
i St. Joseph, Mo. Wives of the farm
. era in the vicinity of Harmony. Mo..
have combined to fight the boycott on
! butter and eggs declared by the housej
wives of St. Joseph and .Maryvlle,
| Mo. It is said they would refuse to
sell butter and egg a for use in eitheI
of the towns.
KING GEORGE ACCEDES TO
WAR COUNCIL OF PREMIER.
London.?The expectation that an
! ATt.lonolrnn ,,f llm Cthinnl 1
its solution would be forthcoming
when the House of Commons met was
not realized. Premier Anquith simply
announced King George had approved
his proposal for reconstruction of the
government which was forced by the
demand of War Socretary Lloyd
George and other ministers for a
smaller war council with powers iudependent
of the cabinet.
NEW RAIL LAWS
URGED BY WILSON
HOUSE LEADERS CLARK AND
KITCHIN CONFER WITH
PRESIDENT.
LEADERS TO SUPPORT BILL
High Cost of Living Is Likely to Receive
Attention.?Leaders Want No
Holiday Recess as Time is Short
For so Much Work.
Washington.?Speaker Clark and
Representative Kitchin, Majority
Leader of the House, assured President
Wilson at a White House conference
that they would do all they
could to hasten the passage of railroad
legislation at. the short session of
Congress which began Monday.
The President summoned the House
leaders to talk over with them the
legislative program and to secure
their co-operation in expediting important
measures. Legislation to supj
plement the Adamson law, he said,
was of the utmost importance and ho
asked that this he given precedence
in consideration over all other general
legislation.
Realizing that three months is a
short period for consideration of general
measures when appropriation
bills also must be passed, the President
asked the House leaders if they
thought there would be time for enactment
of new railroad laws before
inn re n i. Ljom loia mm tney tnought
| there would be, and promised to exert
every effort to economize time on
J other matters.
Speaker Clark reminded the President
that Congress would have to pay
strict attention to business, and him
to help at the outset to eliminate the
usual two weeks' holiday recess.
President Wilson spoke briefly regarding
other important measures,
among them the Webb bill to permit
domestic corporations to maintain
collective foreigu selling agencies, the
i corrupt political practices bill and
conservation measures. Proposed embargo
legislation and issues raised
by the high cost of living were not
mentioned at tho conference, although
the House leaders believe tho subject
< is bound to demand attention of tho
; congress.
WILSON TURNS FLOOD OF
LIGHT ON STATUE OF LIBERTY.
Roar of Salute Sounded From Great
Guns of Atlantic Fleet.
New York.?At a wireless signal
flashed by President Wilson from tho
yacht Mayflower in the harbor hero
the Statue of Liberty was bathed in
light Bartholdi's famous synibol of
American ireeuom, wmcn lor :w years
has been a token of welcome to the
United States to millions of immigrants
from every land, will be illuminated
every night hereafter from top
to bottom. Funds to Install the permanent
lighting system for the Statue,
the gift to the United States of 400,000
citizens of France were provided
by subscription In this country.
"I light this Statue," snid the President.
"with the thought that it may
always stand as a symbol of our purpose
to throw upon liberty, out of
out own life as a nation, a light
which shall reveal its dignity, Its sereno
power, lis benignant hope and
spirit. in KUiuanrc.
Grouped around tho President upon
the Mayflower's deck an lie flashed
the signal were Mrs. Wilson, Jules
J. Jusserand, Ambassador of France,
Madame Jesserand, high officers of
tho army and navy and representatives
of several nations.
The great guns of a division of the
Atlantic fleet anchored in tho harbor
as a guard of honor, boomed a salute
as the statue flashed into view, outlined
in white light. The whistles of
countless harbor craft shrieked in unison
and flares of red light blazod up
along the shore.
Thoro was a flash of flame high
[ above tho statue and Ruth Law in her
airplane added a spectacular touch to
i the ceremonies of illumnatlon. Spou??
1 ing sparks and fire from the tail ot
her machine, she circled the lower
end of Manhattan Island.
PREMIER OF BRITAIN NOW
FAVORS NEW WAR CABINET.
London.?Premier Asqulth has decided
to advise the King to the reconstruction
of (he Government. Tho
I statement, reads:
"Tho Prime Minister, with a view
! to tho most effective prosecution of
; the war, has decided to advise his
I majesty the King, to consent to the
reconstruction of the Government."
Tho political crisis has become acute.
! It is stated that David Lloyd-George
I lias tendered his restirnation.
U. S. OFFICIALS ANXIOUS
OVER VILLA'S PROGRESS.
Washington.- -While they wait for
i Ooneral Carranza to accept or reject
tho protocol signed by the joint commission
at Atlantic City, Administration
officials are giving much attention
to every report relating to tho
activities of Villa and to rebel move,
ments in other parts of Mexico. Additional
Information reached the State
and War Departments tended to confirm
the reports of Villa's capture of
Chihuahua City.
