I
VOLUME 36.
No.
87
HEADQUARTERS FOR
SANTA CLAUSE
Try a Can of these
Tomatoes:
When you open a can of University
Brand Tomatoes you are greeted with
the full tomato flavor, such as you enjoy
when eating them out of the hand in the
garden.
11XI\lFUQ5TV Brand.
UIVl VLIVOa I I
are packed in clean and sanitary fac
tories by the most modern methods.
You can make University Brand Toma
toes fit almost any purpose on your table
for which you use tomatoes fresh from
the garden,
Get a Can To-day
Only 20c per Can
KRAABEL & KRAABEL
R. A. LATHROP SENDS LETTER
TO MEMBERS OF LEGISLATURE
Makes Suggestions for Improving Methods of Intro
ducing Legislation that will Greatly Improve Ef
ficiency of House if Adopted.
A, Lathrop recently sent a letter to all the members elect
of the coming Legislature in which he made a number of valuable
suggestions. This letter has received a great deal of favorable
comment over the state and the Pioneer has secured permission
of MprLathrop to publish it in full. The letter follows:
To the Members of the fifteenth Legislature:
Believing that every member of the Legislature has at heart the
weiiare of the state, and will welcome discussion along legislative
lines, have been prompted to offer some suggestions based on genera
observations and the experience of a first term served two years ago
The main body of men elected to office are anxious to render their
best service, but coming together, the large majority being strangers
with no legislative experience, and (as it has seemed to me) the
machinery of legislation being somewhat cumbersome, it has not
j.lways made for the most efficient results. It isn't worth while to
find fault with this condition but it is worth while to try and work
out some constructive method to remedy the condition to some
extent. Not being a candidate for any place at the hands of the
Legislature I feel that only motives of having at heart the best
interests of the state will be assigned, for, I can assure you that
there is no other thought.
It has sometimes seemed that we have too narrow a conception
of our office. ^Ve are not simply servants of the district from which
we are elected, but rather, state officers, and should not consider
ourselves as representing merely our county, our party, our business
or, anything less than the whole state and her every citizen. We
are called on to take an oath to "support the constitution," which
is presumed to grant equal rights to all, hence we are the servants
of all.
Tomatoes
eemtaa
1
HOPE, STEELE COUNTY, NORTH DAKOTA, DECEMBER 7, 1916.
^—gag—B==g=gg=g=ia—as—=—i
A CHRISTMAS MESSAGE
To Everybody:
This is to let you know that our counters are now packed with a line of choice Christmas gifts, and to in
vite you to come and look them over and select what you want. 4 4 Our line is the best that we could buy at the
large wholesale houses in the big cities and contains something that will please any one. 4 4 We will mention just
a few of the items that will be found on display to give you some idea of the selection you will have to pick from
if you come early:
A jk A SLEDS TOYS, DOLLS, PICTURES, CHINA, GLASSWARE, HANDKERCHIEFS, NOVELTIES, 4
GAMES, BOOKS, CANDY, TREE DECORATIONS, CARDS AND BOOKLETS, WORK BASKETS
We.have had a radiogram from Old Santa Clause and he informs us that he will visit the children at our
store shortly before Christmas. 4 4 Watch for the date so the little folks can be on hand to greet him.
FULMER'S VARIETY STORE
Next should come a toleration of the opinions of others, for, it
is ten to one that each is sincere and there is a bare possibility that
the "other fellow" may be right. It i*n't differences of opinion that
are dangerous, in fact, if approached in the right spirit it is these dif
ferences of opinion that bring out the many sides that make for bal
anced legislation. It is only an intolerant spirit that refuses to con
sider all sides of a question that is apt to produce ill-advised legisla
tion.
It seems to me that our idea should not be how much legislation
we can get through, but how good and how well-digested is that we
do pass. Neither should we think that we can cure all the ills that
man is heir to by legislation, for. if we emphasize this doctrine we
are apt to offset to a degree the good that we can do through law
making, by instilling a false hope in the minds of many men, who will
depend too much on the legislative program, possibly forgetting that
the mainspring of success lies within himself, through the application
of the homely virtues of honesty, sobriety, economy and good man
agement.
These has crept in at times a 'tendency on
nfe. -i*..' ,.,'{ ,,, ,,- :•,iLii.L].n.icLiii.Vi-l-il^l.^Mil,ll'
tile
factions, or representatives of certain lines of business, to caucus or
to have meetings excluding those not of their particular belief.
When, for the time being, we have become servants of the whole
state, it has seemed to me that this should not be. If carried to its
ogical conclusion this will be adopting the caucus rule of Congress
that we have been finding fault with, and in the end is likely to result
in minority rule, through governing by a "majority of the "majority,"
which may be much less than a majority of the whole body. My
opposition to this is not that I would put a stumbling block in the
way of majority action, for exactly the opposite is my attitude, believ
ing that all legislation should come "out in the open" and have full
and free discussion. Rather it is the belief that it is a dangerous
innovation to inject into our legislative procedure, and that when
the time comes for sober second thought that it will be regretted by
those who participate, and will be condemned by the people of the
state as a whole. EVERY QUESTION THAT AFFECTS EVERY
CITIZEN OF OUR STATE OUGHT TO BE PARTICIPATED
IN BY EVERY REPRESENTATIVE ELECTED BY THE PEO
PLE, AND, NO MEMBER SHOULD YIELD HIS HONEST
OPINION ON A POLICY OR A MEASURE, TO ANYTHING
LESS THAN A FULL MAJORITY OF THE WHOLE. Far bet
ter will it be to call together all conflicting elements (if such there
be) and go over all the points of difference and come to a majority
understanding, than that any should feel that they have been ignored.
All are equally interested in our state's welfare and when we get
ether and "talk it over" we will find we are not so far apart
after all.
With these general observations, it is now my purpose to try and
offer some concrete suggestions and changes that will expedite and
economize the work of the session.
First. Introduce only such matters as remedy some defect in
our present laws, or, new laws that broaden the field of opportunity
for some portion of our society, with due regard, of course, to its
effect on all other interests. Every member should scrutinize care
fully any bill he is asked by others to introduce, making sure it repre
sents his own ideas and is such that he can give cordial support, not
merely "introduced by request."
Second. Prepare all bills in advance, if possible, so they may be
introduced at the opening session or within the first few days, so
there may be ample time for consideration, and not hurried legisla
tion, nor, too much "committee legislation." The importance of
this will appear also in the next recommendation.
Third. The creation of a new joint committee composed of
both Senate and House members, which for lack of a better name,
will call a "clearing house committee." To this committee all bills
introduced in both Houses shall be referred before printing, to be
assembled under their respective subjects, calling together the
authors of all the bills on a certain subject and endeavor to get them
to unite in a joint bill embracing their ideas. This would give a com
posite bill for consideration instead of the legislature having to grind
out a grist of imperfect bills and likely in the end fail to include
some important feature. Also when it is considered that the printing
bill of a legislative session (now greatly advanced) amounts to about
$30,000.00, it will be seen that there is a chance for no small saving
by this method. The main thing, however, is the better results
through the saving of time and the better balanced legislation, with
the combined viewpoint of the authors and the committee. This
committee could also study wherein a proposed bill conflicted with
existing laws, or pending legislation. I would not deny the right of a
member to have his bill printed if he insisted but think the majority
would welcome light from every source in order that the subject in
which he was interested should go upon the statute books in the
best possible form.
Fourth. Appointment of Committees. It has seemed that pos
sibly it is too large power to place in one man's hands, to grant the
full right to appoint the committees. Sometimes this is done through
••wiMimnHiihiMiiMiiiniiiiiiiiniiiiii""
Burner
part of certain
i—iwinpn Hi• ii inn m»iiiiini\V^o'iri«(innn'find iwiritffli/n
:,r Tj'--'-:'
-r •:'.
aV
A
W
i*.
Call at our office and let us
know just what you will need
and we will see that you are sup
plied.
DO IT NOW!
ED. W. HANSON
O E NO A O A
a committee elected by the body, possibly, a committee of nine, one
third from each congressional district. If a wise selection is made
in election of presiding officer all is well, but where the large ma
jority are strangers there is possibility of an unwise choice and the
position offers a power that might tempt a man politically ambitious
to use for personal advancement, or, a man strong in his likes and
dislikes, might fail to use some of the best timber available. The
vast bulk of work is done through about fifteen committees though
there are some 45 listed. The time of meeting of these should be
so arranged and the appointments so made that each member would
only be on one morning and one evening committee a day. There is
a chance for great improvement in arrangement so that consecutive
service may be had at each committee meeting.
Fifth. Together with a bill introduced should be attached a
brief statement by the author outlining the points wherein the bill
changes the existing law, its purpose, and wherein he thinks it will
be of benefit. This would effect a saving of time on the part of the
committee as frequently considerable time is consumed in trying to
arrive at the intent and purpose of a bill.
Sixth. If requested by either Senate or House, it might be well
to grant the privilege of the floor to a member of the opposite body,
to speak on a bill of which he was author or in charge of. Sometimes
a bill comes in from the opposite house and no one has a clear under
standing of it, when a few minutes' talk by its author would clear up
the situation.
There are some savings which might be effected, for instance in
the matter of employees, but these are not nearly so important as
perfecting the "machinery of legislation" and this write-up has al
ready run to greater length than 1 anticipated. Some good reforms
of the rules were adopted two years ago, as well as some financial
reform measures in which the writer had some part and in which
line of work am much interested. Hope more can be accomplished
at the coming session.
The observations and suggestions herein are not made with the
thought that they are infallible but are prompted by a desire to
offer something practical that will help to make legislative procedure
more responsive to the popular will, and, to suggest a word of cau
(Concluded on last page)
Price 5 Cts.
HOPE,
NORTH DAKOTA
COAL
We have on hand a good
supply of the various grades of
Hard and Soft Coal arid will be
prepared to supply your needs in
this line at all times.
1
