L The Marble Hill Press,
Torm8$1.00 a Taar
Vol. 36.
Marble Hill, Missouri, Thursday, December 7, 1010.
No. 32
9
Eh
Hart
i
if
s7
525 u
1 fflfll!
a well a the rest of the year ami we realize that the only way to yet it is to he able to supply vour need at price. the- other fellow tan not m.-il.c. l or
daxs we have been preparing for this event and now e are ready with Thousands of articles that will make suitable presents for our ,cd ones ;.t prices
that can not be duplicated eUewhere in the county. We are not in business here for just a short time, but will probably be :-khv for your trade years
from now, so you see we could not afford to promise our customers anything we can not live up !.. We appreciate our favor of the past and intend to
K merit your future patronage. In order to make this Holiday 5a I e more interesting to our customers we are Koinjr to
Give Away Absolutely FREE tho Following Presents:
I $10.00 Piesent to the family that tzades most icith us until January I, pf
$2..io "Present to the family icith baby up to I yeaz old that trades most with us until January I, lop
to Pzesent 10 the oldest couple " " $0.00
A $1.00 Pzesent each to the oldest man and lady icho calls at our sto:e befoie above dale
Ladies' and Children's Cloaks
We have ttii i r(-pi,U"iHy Hit weather fur this fail. Utt you
knew It 1 usually fllni hrfore a si'-nn. e may fomuMy r-
s,t rM. bsd weather trUt" many dnys Your - if" and children
ltuM fr '(initn! with "Ute ttt nir rtsfrM and -
fitUc ow!l l-r the Iwvd weatlwr trkltl- -mid there is no
rAM why the should r r for h-ive alumni any sure and
any ptr itrut-tt in tins line you rould wish ' r
See this big line of Real Bargains before you buy. They
are eyeopeners.
Men and Boys' Hats and Caps
mlrr tt.rr m ! now kik hke the twrih star - to the
full o m com ;jmn with ouf liw of thts fr! can fit
any h1! any j keU k anl nj -taste in Hats or Vain Ve
ufr i shine in '! line ((nnf to and see hw bnfiht r
Pratt's and International Stock Foods
and trtmn.-iry rented- will tfo at Imriiam I: will yu
t k after . if fif thry ,re ! lit. ' ! .!" ,
Gloves
Gloves
tk jki lit' th.t !'- af wi n'hl. ri-.t it luxury
tV rr a iw Hy Ahjoti rm ! letter in liu" i'
Uxmr WxL ar in wi-li!in umi if tit lm i riMi mi
rr rl ia ymi nunply k rimuiih in fr hour tune thtwih
Uvt4lity t. turn f! your ift rui!t. to tv fof ' thtrM
rtmi rt.t) r-k Think if t hi fmm a tu-nrv stauvl'itu
art.! th cottup m mwUrt ua fit i ut ith any knt yu dviirt
Overcoats
Overcoats
We haf tlw Urmt Stot k mxJ rrtt arirty of t)vfn-wt ou
hrnxl f have ever Nnifihl any wJi In oriler to tuh thw
wit e arr offirmfi trcwt tndiK-eiwnts in th y of kw
prk-e to our customers. They are rare bargain theiii
Irish Potatoes $1.60 per bushel
Old Santa Claus
tar'. 4M .4
Millinery Millinery
We Iimvc Mi!.j it niota.'tiotli sloi k if i.iii-' .:; ! f!iii!re:: .
ami Cap? this fall. t,ui h.'ivi- a fi-w ni.r. u;- Hats i-ft
am) in ordi-r t't i Umii out tli" sin k cnnrfiV w- . tr- mSNtiii,.' ;:,ch,
A t a n d li e I o s C t
They won't .tt iii line- vc
(tu want one si'ii sli'i!i.i tu t wait
; idllii.' O'l ! Il
Shoes
Shoes
We have always tnoi t i le nMe to supply ni'.r cus'toniers with
anvthi'ij: they 'innht desire in tiie Shoe line from the most dressy
to the t-si in fersiia work sh and we now have a larger
tm-k v Ji evt. U-ft ,-e. w we feel mite that ve can fill your wan',
mure sa;i-.f.ictnlv th.iri eer S.iv u 'ioclors hi!! h .t; vc
your ft-t warn, and dry there:-) roon.tniiii! and sue nionev on
your vhie lull I a !u!tiO i : n ; u : tiu twi.-e sumt money i e
also -arr an eirp!ioti.i!ly larce laie of the l;tra,t ' Hati am!
"Buiisee" itran-!" ..f ri.hher footwear atid we nmkit ';.- ial!
att r.l' t r. iTin- o;s (h-l!i See Slow i"'W we sirel.-ti the ;.:ice tie
fore Vol! hu
wlll,arrive at our store Aith his pack of to5
and good things for the children in a few days.
We hope to he able to announce the exact date
of his arrival at our .store in this space next
week and hope you w ill come to see him for he
is bringin!: a bijjger load of od things than he
hasexer left with us before.
Paints
Paints
e ,,re f-l.t.t, , . : -to, k at lat .m: - .t at.d you mi- the'
ijilltr a lo: o' dl"eren.-e in this seasons ri-- a;Mi t!'"e fa
Groceries
Groceries
Iid von ever stop to think that there i lots of difference in
Cnn-eries Many merchants keep such fjoods on liand mini they
are stale absolutely unfit for human beings to eat Our stock is
changing every week no week passes that we fail to receive a
lare consijinment of fresh groceries therefore we never hesitate
to guarantee such vxfs to he as fresh as can he found in the
market.
Trunks, Suitcases and Grips
I Vt Koxo IW Lft that up ;r ntVriTU :it A wre.iin in
ir unu it " "oi "
we wi.i pay you . , an,, us Utfore you buy.
Bruift thrm in I
Coal OH. per galhv, during this Sale only SV i4 Pcunds f Su&t ftr S,.c ilh eeerv purchase
...... n. no i nf.. a m,ir.c i Children's Caps and Sweaters
"Talk i cheap." o are the priT on our entire torjte atork of
Pre Cxl w n ntt duplicate the tfooiis in the market at
the prioe we are -etlinit thi kt of jjouik but e are Hiving our
ritoner the -nefit of lhee bargain an.l niakini! new friends
by ikin: If x! don't beliee we have the Cod and at price
you can t duplicate elehere. call anl let vi you We are
In dewl earnet and tnenn t show you that we are
You know how uncomfortable one is if cold in Nsl and you can
not fet any rest while in this .-.nditin. You don't de
serve any sympathy however whn we are almost pvin away
C.Miiforts and Hlankets Just m and price them
Our stuck is Inrce and comnlete and we can make our little
one amfortahle this winter for very little money 1' you dm;
believe this, come in and set1 our hu: hue
Clothing
Clothing
We have the largest stock of Clot hint m the conntv and we are
offerim: the entire line at the lowest ;.,,sv,t ie pnc s
Vour Cilt, .clclcd from our ndcrful collcctio,, ill Ik- ure to brine a real happy Christmas to our loved ones. Ixvausc hcrv ,ou ma choose trom the
m., extcn.O. variety ol new. usoTol merehanolse and he ,hs...te. a.surl of reeei, int the trea.es. alues a. lo pri.es unegualed an, lure. VV e extend
,",uaheart inflation ...come and .sre our 5,xrh disps-xoor isi. Ml he el! or,h or hi,e! ltrint us ,o.,r rl,r and rr.Kiu.e of all
kind. We will give you top prices for it.
Taylor GvO r eara&i l
mi
in, m
ssoyrn
