HEERMJ)
VOLUME XIY.
OOOKEYLLLE. TENNESSEE, THURSDAY. DECEMBER 7. 1916.
NUMBER 49
C UNTY I
MMt MMt'l M'MM M "M't'
GOSPEL MEETING
CONDUCTED BY E. A. ELAM
z at the Church of Christ, CookeviJle, Tenn.
Commencing Thursday, December 14, 1916
How a Congregation Should do Missionary Work E. A. Elam
How an Evangelist Should be Supported C. M. Pullias
Keeping Allye Interest in a New Congregation W. T. Boaz X
Worship (Instrumental Music) M. C. Kurfees
Duties and Work of Elders and Deacons ........ Price Billingsley
Importance of Studying and Teaching the Bible H. Leo Boles 2
Necessity of Attending Every Lord's Day Meeting P. W. Smith
Woman's Work in the Church ." A. B. Lipscomb
Preach the Word T. B. Larimore
Everybody invited to attend this meeting and hear these sub
jects discussed by the able men assigned above.
TENNESSEE POLYTECHNIC
INSTITUTE
The Tennessee Polytechnic Insti
tute is a successful school it nas a
WOMAN'S MISSIONARY SOCIETY
On Monday afternoon the Woman's
Missionary Society of the Methodist
Church met with Mrs. S. S. Stanton,
large, enthusiastic student bodv. Though the afternoon was rainy and
which is fastly growing in numbers, unpleasant on the outside, most of
and doing much splendid work. ithe members were present and we
Every member of its faculty of able had a very splendid meeting. The
teachers has won the love and high following officers and superintend
esteem not only of the student body, ents were elected. Mrs. J. M. Dowell
but of all who have met them. I president, Mrs. C. D. Daniel 1st. vice
The school has two modern brick president, Mrs. M. T. Carlisle 2nd
dormitories, splendidly equipped with vice president, Mrs. Elmer Wirt Supt.
electric lights, water, and steam heat- of publicity and mission study, Mrs.
ing plants. The rooms are all well X. K. Sisk Supt. of social service,
lighted, clean and comfortable. (Mrs. O. D. Massa Supt. of supplies,
The board Is wholesome and sub-j Mrs. flora JNoonan recording secre-
stantial, costing only $8.00 a month,
which is unusually low when taking
into consideration the extremely high
cost of food stuffs at this time.
The main building is modern in
every respect, having well equipped
and well lighted class rooms, best of
chemical and mechanical laboratory
equipment and first class equipment
for the commercial courses.
, The Mechanical Arts building being
built by the students of the Manual
Arts course is rapidly nearing com
pletion, and will also be well equip
ped with tools, benches, drawing
desks, etc. . The Agricultural and
Teacher's Training Departments are
also" in good shape, and doing excel
lent work.
The school plant is located on a
most beautiful tract of land lying on
the outskirts of Cookeville. It is
high and dry, and desirable in every
respect.
Students looking for a good school
to enter could not make a mistake in
selecting T. P. I. '
A MISTAKE SOMEWHERE
No passes could be secured for far
mers along the Tennessee Central
railroad to attend the farmers insti
tute in Nashville this week, nor was
any special rate offered. This was a
serious mistake, on the part of who
ever ; is responsible. All the 1 thr
railroads furnished passes for this
occasion.
tary. Miss Leona Byrne correspond
ing secretary, Mrs. R. J. Craig treas
urer, Mrs. A. M. Gibbs agent for the
"Voice". Arrangements for our ba
zaar which will be Dec. 15th at the
old post office ' building, were com
pleted at this meeting. A variety of
practical articles will be on display
for sale at the bazaar, also homemade
candy. Dinner will be served from
11:30 to 2 o'clock. The public is in
vited. . A very enjoyable feature of this
meeting was a most excellent origi
nal paper on "Thanksgiving" read
(by request) by Mrs. Carlisle. By
her consent we are having this pa
per published in this issue of the
Herald.
Our week of prayer at the parson
age was the very best we have ever
had. The interest and attendance
were fine. The programs edifying
and helpful and the" offerings wer
good. Seven new members were ad
ded during the week.
While we enjoyed the social hour,
Mrs. Stanton assisted by Mrs. Chas.
Stanton served delightful refresh
ments. We were favored with a
beautiful piano solo by Miss Tennie
Alma Stanton.
Dec. 18th Mrs. Austin Smith will
entertain the Society, and the new
officers will be installed.
Ti. Fox has an adv. of Daisy Pattern
Tableware. Look it up.
MISS MILDRED RUTHERFORD
, COMING
Mies Mildred Rutherford of Athens.
Ga., retiring historian-general of the
United Daughters of the Confederacy,
win oe in uooxevuie, Saturday, Dec
, and deliver her famous lecture
me South Of Yesterday" Mian
Rutherford is probably the mpst fa
mous and Dest beloved woman in the
South and has been on a lecture tour
since September 19. Her lecture
Saturday evening will be the one for
which she Is most famous, and she
will appear in a costume over 100
years old.
Miss Rutherford comes to Cooke
ville in response to an invitation from
Mrs. Rutledge Smith, who had the
privilege of hearing her a few years
ago in Richmond, Va., and who se
cured from her a promise that if she
was ever in Middle Tennessee she
would give this lecture in Cookeville.
From here she will go to Memphis,
majung) only NBPlivilld. Cookevillej
and Memphis in Tennessee.
The Lyceum Committee of the Pa
rent-Teachers' Association will have
charge of this lecture and have plac-
ea tne admission price at fifteen and
twenty-five cents, in order that all
may avail themselves of this oppor
tunity of hearing the South's most
brilliant woman orator.
Mrs. Cora Cox Lucas who knows
and has heard Miss Rutherford, says
that no person in this vicinity can
afford to miss hearing Miss Rutherford.
This lecture will be given Satur
day evening, Dec. 9, at the City
School at 8 o'clock.
NOTICE TO TEACHERS
It is the order of the Board of Edu
cation that all schools close at the
end of five months from the time of
beginning.
All schools that began the session
on July 31, will close Dec. 15. Schools
that were started later will continue
until the end of five months from the
time of starting.
J. M. HATFIELD, Co. Supt.
SUCCESSFUL BAZAAR
The Ladies Guild of the Presbyte
rian church held a very successful
bazaar In the old post office building
on Broad street yesterday. Luncheon
was served to a large number 1 and
most of the articles were sold. It
was also a very pleasant day socially.
ROUTE FIVE
Beuben Breeding is very poorly at
this writing. It has been said the
doctors couldn't explain his case.
Little Miss Jennie. Miller Pharris
visited the writer Saturday.
Virgil York had better wake up
and hustle around more often for
Xmas is not long off and those cus
tomers will want some cakes and
they are about out of extracts.
The school at Lovelady is progress
ing nicely with W. T. Thompson as
teacher.
Katherina Williams visited at Joe
Pharris' Monday night. ,
Little Haskell Farley enjoys him
self pulling his go-cart these pretty
Autumn days.
Papa and mania visited at Joe
Pharris Monday night.
Rubie Paul says she likes all kinds
of letters but T. P. best of all.
PEARL ESSEX.
MAKE YOUR MONEY DO DOUBLE
DUTY.
By W. A. Morgan.
Much money is spent every year
wim me mail order nouses in far
away cities in an attempt to make
money do double duty. Those who
have given the matter much atten
tion know what failures such attentats
must always, prove. Whether you
buy goods at home or abroad there
are certain items of expense that tre
necessary in getting them to you.
Taxes must be paid on the monev
invested in the goods, clerks must be
nired, and freight paid. In addition
to these expenses the mail order
house must pay a big office force to
look after its correspondence, shipp
ing clerks to see after all its thous
ands of small shipments, and an
enormous advertising bill for work
that is done to make you believe it
will give you more than your money
b worth. Who pays these expenses?
Do you think that the great mail or
der houses are going to bear all these
expenses just for the pleasure of giv
ing you bargains and make no char
ges to yum.
Money spent by guess can hardly
do double duty. No matter how hon-
for home BAtarsa
K(2)YAL
RACXIH fOT
Aboclatciy Puro
THE GREATEST BAKE-DAY
No Alum No Phosphate
Tift niV CftD IIUITCn ti A n iTi r (. '
Saturday will be Tag Day for h
benefit of the United Charities, and
S.e J..".? 57?. the wVk w7n tathelr S7tl,
buying by mail is always largely
guess work. You can't tell how the
article will look, fit, or feel. If when
it comes, it just suits you, you are
lucky indeed. If It doesn't suit, you
must either go to the trouble and ex
pense- of returning it and trying to
get your money back, or else you
must keep it and be dissatisfied as
long as it lasts.
The only way to make your money
do double duty at the store is to
spend it witn your home merchants.
What you spend with them not on
ly pays for what you buy, but their
taxes are paid here instead of in
some distant city and a part of all
they receive goes to provide streets
and roads, to protect our property,
and to educate our young. Increased
business enables our local men to
sell at closer prices, to improve their
places of business, and to keep larg
er stocks for you to select from.
Burn up those old catalogues and
let's stick to the business and profes
sional men of our town and county
who are helping to make this a more
desirable place to live in.
METHODIST CHURCH NOTES
Rev. R. J. Craig will preach next
Sunday morning at 11 o'clock in the
Methodist church. This sermon will
be the first of a series of six to be
delivered on Colossians 3:16.
The Presiding Elder, Rev. H. B.
Blue will preach Sunday night at, 7
o'clock.
The first meeting of the quarterly
conference will be held at the par
sonage next Monday night, by Rev.
H. B. Blue. P. E.
T. P. I. PICTURE SHOW
Friday night is moving picture
night. at T. P. I. and the following
films will be shown:
First Aid in The Home.
Clay Pigeon Contest.
The Breath of Steel.
These shows are free and becoming
quite popular with our citizens. The
films are educational and very enter-1
taining.
various corners of the popular streets
and will spend the day pinning ta.!?8
Mt. View Lodge No. 179 I. O. O. F.
on those who will help in the worthy 1 2nd l9ifT n p s,"", ' I Vn. Z 7
cause. It is hoped that the people lStl ' Ji."8""
ual routine business was disposed of.
Bro. Jno. L. Lee was reported very
niucn improved.
will respond liberally to the appeal
to help in the movement and that
the amount realized will be law
enough to carry th work to a suc
cessful conclusion during the ap
proaching winter.
The weather has now turned cold
and many appeals are already being
made upon the United Chrities for
assistance. Food and" the necessi
ties to life have gone to prices that
are beyond the reach of many, and
there will be greater demands for
help than heretofore. Your- neigh
bor is at your door, he is hungry. Will
you feed him? He is cold, will you
make him warm? "As ye did it unto
the least of these, my brethren, ye
did it unto me." "Judge not lest ve
De judged." Look at your own littlo
one and think how the cold - would
bite her had she no shoes; how she
would suffer if there were no food.
When the wintry winds howl
around your comfortable home, have
the satisfaction of knowing that you
have made some unfortunate one
more comfortable. The glow of the
kind heart is greater than the bright
est hearthstone.
The two captains, Louise Cox of
the Blues, and Janie Lowe of the
Bro. R. M. Breeding was reported
seriously and critically ill, and his
recovery is considered very doubtful.
Under the call of new business the
election of officers for next term was
taken up and resulted as follows:
H. V. Carr, Noble Grand: F. N. Bil
lingsley, Vice Grand; L. R. McClaln,
Secretary; B. C. West, Treasurer.
Bro. E. E. York, Supt. of the I. O.'
O F Home at Clarksville, reports ex
penses for Sept. 1916, $3,397.97 for
maintenance of the Home, which is
1312.09 less than for Sept. 1915. There
are now in the. Home 4 widows, 3
aged brothers, 88 boys and 90 girls.
Health excellent. This Home is the
Order's greatest asset, and all bros.
should feel proud that they are con
tributing 75c each every six months,
to carry on this grand work.
LADIES AID SOCIETY
Mrs. Ellen Jared presided over a
well attended meeting of the Ladies'
Aid Society Monday afternoon at the
home of Mrs. F. R. Pendergrass.
Aside 'from the membership, a num-
her nf viuitnra wprn nrpspnt anH n
n,eus, nave cuutieu Kins iu ire inaut-u j neuy member added.
at each corner, who will tag everv
person who contributes to the cause.
SPARTA ENTERTAINS COOKE
VILLE "The Girls Secret" given by a dra
matic club of Sparta at the city school
Tuesday night was one of the best
entertainmerits fliven in Cookeville
this season. The young people well
chaperoned motored over in the af-
After the business sesRiin a de
lightful social hour followed, at
which time delightful refreshments
were served.
The next meeting of the Aid wilt
be with Mrs. Haskel Womack, Dec.
11, at 2:30. ' -
FIRST PRESBYTERIAN CHURCH
Tho pastor, Rev. A. J. Cotle will
preach Sunday, Dec. 10 at 11 a. m.
lernoon, returning home after the and 7 p. m. The subject of the mor
play. Each part was well rendered Ining sermon will be "Wanted, A Tea-
and the applause of the vaudeville icher!"
stunts was most vociferous. The j Every teacher in the Sunday school
proceeds were for the Rest Room of 'and every member of the Teacher
Sparta. Training Class is urged to be present.
mm hi ni n 1 1 1 it ti i ti f rttttftttrt 1 1 1 ri ttti 1 1 1 1 rr" " t tt 1 1 ' t " iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii.t.iMii iiiiiiHiiiiitwmwM
V
WE
Ev
Largest Grocery Stock in Cookeville
Will go at present wholesate prices for 10 or 15 days beginning Monday, Dec. 11, '16
! STOP! NOTICE! THINK! CONSIDER! This is for the benefit of consumer only. Nothing as a catch
or leader. Entire stock to move at above prices as long as present stock lasts. You are invited to come or
call and investigate tor yoursell.
Coffee
All $1.00 values at.-.85c
All 50c values at. :40c
35c values, not over .28c
25c values, not over 22c
Red Lion at 13k lb.
Best SOcPeaberry at. -24c
Best 25c Peaberry at ..19c
PICKLES
Pickles of all kinds on sale
SUGAR
13 lbs. White Sugar for$1.00
Less quantity, 7ic per lb. -
SUGAR
Powders
50c Stock and Poultry Powders.. -40c each
25c Stock and Poultry Powders. . ,19c tach
Rat-corn at same prices. It gets the rats.
25c Washing Powder at: 20c
5c Washing Powder at . . .......... .4c -
Talcum Powder at 4 and 8c
Celluloid and other 5c Starch...... 4c each
Miscellaneous
Matches 6c box., 4c lc box, perdoz 9c
Head Rice, per pou nd . T . 7c
Tobacco All 10c values for 8 All 6c values for 4c
Snuff same as tobacco.
Arm & Hammer Soda... 4c
Rolled Oats 10c size, 7 and 8c 25c size 19c
Soap All 6c values at ----3 and 4c
Spices All 5c size - .. ...... 4c each
Grape-Juice 50c size ..39c 25c size 19c
Ginned Goods
All ?5c values for 20c
All "Oc values at 17c
All j5c values at 12c
All 10c values at7 and 8c
All 5c values for.-.r.--4c
Flavoring Extracts
10c value for 8c
25c value for. -19c
35c pure apple Vinegar 24c
Many other things too numerous to mention. This sale to be STRICLY Cash or Barter. No order deliv
ered less than $1.00 value. SPECIAL INVITATION open to all: Free lot and water for stock.
OF1
!ke Store
WE S T CO OKEV1L L E
tit 1 1 1 nt iTii mi 1 1 1 1 i n i t mi i r i ti i Tift 1 1 r i r rt r - r t r r " "".'?" " 1 ' 1 ' y 1 ' ' '''' ' 1
