3tato Historical Socie
Taney
ounty
EPUBLICAN
Vol. -.'. So 4
FOHSYTII, M1SSOUM, THURSDAY, DKCKMI.KK 7, 1U5.
Four Paces.
THE ELECTION.
By TtlSOdarB Rj3SeVjlt.
Wnen I write this it appears as if
Mr. Wilson had carried the electorial
college, by a small ma rity. The ex-
treme closeness of the election render -
ing us at '.his moment unable to state
without question who the next presi
dent is to be, w! ile the senate is Dem
ocratic and the house closely divided
is not a satisfactory outcome of the
campaign. To men who feel as the
present writer does and who hold their
convictions with a fervor of intensity,
and who wished to see the American
people repudiate Mr. Wilson's policies
by an overwhelming majority the dis
appointment is naturally keen.
As in all such cases the result is
more easy to explain than it had been
to foretell. The appeal made for Mr.
Wilson was one which would tell very
strongly with good, honest citizens
whose pre-ocuptation with their own
pursuits was such that they could
not be expected to look deeply into
our international relations and the gen
eral world conditions. This appeal was
in its essence that we should vote for
Mr. Wilson because he had kept us
out of war and because we were pros
perous. It would have been highly
creditable to the average man if he had
possessed the vision and disinterested
ness to disregard such an appeal; but
the fact that he did not disregard it
merely means that we were not able to
make the issue clesr to his eyes. It
does not mean that he would remain
morally obtuse if he could be shown in
convincing fashion where his duty lay
No sensible man wishes to go to war
if he can honorably keep out of it; and
when to this natural inclination is ad
ded the fact that the man is very busy
and is puzzled about the issues involv
ed, he is certain to cast his vote cn the
side that he is told will guarantee
peace. Evidently people tend to look
at the dreadful crimes committed in
Belgium and Armenia in the sinking
of the ,Lusitania, and in Mexico
as analogous to disasters such as an
earthquake or a fire; as properly excit
ing a discreet sympathy, but not as call
ing for any action which would Jeopard
izj the combrt and well-being of those
not being immediately concerned. I
do cot approve of this attitude. I am
merely stating it. Insofar as our peo
ple permanently preserve it, they will
steadily tend to the Chinese level. It
may need a serious shock to wake them
from it, the men and women of the re
volution an! of the civil war. Again,
every man does and ought to prize a
material well-being. To prize it is
only wrong when it is permitted to get
out of perspective, and yet I am sure
that it is possible to wake them, and
that when thorougly roused they have
the further possibility of showing the
great qualities of to become the sole
end of life, instead of merely one of
the means to the end important but
to be sacrificed without hesitation by
all lofty souls, when it t retention is
clearly incomparable with some high
good. We are at the moment well off.
The cost of living is very high; and
the government is rapidly becoming
unable to pay its de Jts; but business
man, farmer and wage-earner are all
profitably busy. Under such circum
stances onl men of unusal insight and
foresight will make a politicial change
because of just concern abovt future
conditions. They do not pay much
heed to the ' forecasts of politicians.
We have permitted our politicians our
candidates for public offices to treat
the promises made in party platforms
and on the stump with a cynicial in
difference which now reflects itself in
similar indifference on the part of the
voter. When public men are readily
pardoned for making any promise which
they think will secure public favor be
fore election and for repudiating an;
promise which they think it inconveni
ent to kep after election, it isimposs
ible to ex,- el that the voters will not
finally gro .kptical about all promis
es, prophecic s ai.d statements made
daring the cou;e of a ca.iiniiga.
In addition to tr.r.k counterclaims,
there was the fact that the Adirastn
bill unquestionably produced a great
t fleet in Mr. Wilson's favor in all labor
circles. It was taken as an indication
that in any cor,n-t betxeen capital and
,abpr' Mr- m-a woM suPPort !,lbor
j 'ithout aD overnice scrutiny of the
1 merits ' lhe case cr the ,uture efec,s
Morever there, was a real blurring of
the issues because for the fii st three
years of Mr. Wilson's term the leaders
j amonK his nominal P1"1? opponents
either -eared t0 criticise him at a" or
else S'-Ht ha" ' tlu m assai,inf him
because on some given policy he had
gone too far, and the other half be
cause he had not gone fir enough.
When a bublic man who had for three
years praised each of Mr. Wilson's acts
separately turned rouhd and during
the campaign condemned them all col
lectively he did not carry conviction.
Nor was it possible to exert the full op
position strength against him when the
leadership for three years had been
such that until the campaign opened
it was not possible to foretell exactly
what ground the opposition would be
asked to take
We who supported Mr. Hughes will
always be glad that we supported him.
We believe that his triumph and the
national welfare were closely interwov
en. We now for the sake of the nat
ion earnestly hope Mr. Wilson will
meet with every success in the task a-
head of him. From Xmas Number
of Metropolitan Magazine
Cockrels Hens and Pullets Should be Sold
Before Winter Feeding Season Begins.
Fall is the season for reducing poul
try flocks, George W. Harvey of the
College of Agriculture of the Univer
sity of Missouri says. Surplus cock
rels should be disposed of and older
cock s and hens sold, unless the hens
are good producers. Pullets that are
weak are in any way deformed should
not be kept through the winter. It is
a matter of unnecssary expense Mr.
Harvey says, and the culling out pro
cess will make the flock stronger.
Sickness of poultry in the winter,
especially respiratory diseases such as
roup and colds, is the result of poorly
constructed shelters. There should
be from two to five square feet of floor
space for each bird and one nest box
lor every four birds. Five or six in
ches of straw litter should be placed
on the floor. The feeding of grain on
this will make the birds scratch, giving
them exercise.
The official vote as given out by
S;cretary of State Roach shows Gard
ner's plurality over Lamm to be 2263
Reeds plurality for U. S. Senator, 24,
456. Hackman, for state auditor the
only Republican elected on the state,
ticket received 9080 plurality. Argus
Cox, Republican candidate for Judge
of Appeals recsived 1044 plurality.
Bradley, his Democratic opponent has
filed contest proceedings in the Su
preme court claiming that the votes
cast in Maries county for Johnson
whose name was printed on the Dem
ocratic ticket by mistake in place of
Bradley should be counted for him. If
the court sustains this contention Brad
ley would have 267 plurality. Secre
tary Roach has issued certificate of
election to Argus Cox. The constitu
tional amendment to pension the blind
was adepted, but the Gardner Laud
Bank amendment and the Prohibition
amendment were defeated.
It is a noteworthy fact that prominent
Democrats who are supposed to have
presidential aspirations were careful to
compliment W. J. Bryan upon the
efficiency of his campaign in the West
where Wilson won his surprising
victories. The fact that Wilson has
not been effusive in expressing ap
preciation of Bryan's effective help is
one indication that perhaps Wilson is
not thinking of a third term, as many
people believe he is.
It was entirely unnecessary for the
National Grange to issue a denial that
the farmers Bre responsible for the
high cost of living. Everyone knows
they have had far too small a return
for the labor of themselves and families
and lor the capital the; have invested.
The Best of Gifts.
Some twenty-three centuries ago the
blase writer of Ecclesiastes complain
ed: "Of making of many books there
is no end; and much study is a weari
ness of flesh." This was long before
tne invention oi niovaoie types, paper
and printing presses. The patient
copyists of that remote time could not
have turned out many books, as we
reckon numbers. But we have the
advantage of the Treacher. Nobody
is expected to read all the books that
are made. It is not in weariness of
flesh but in joy of spirit that we watch
the streams of publications, giving us
the results of the prodigious Ubors of
the most indefatigable students and the
deepest thinkers of our times. The
wealth of subjects would have so
amazed the Preacher that he would
hive revised his hasty generalizuion
about there being "r.o new thing un
der the sun." The complexities cf
our civilization have brought a multi
tude of new things, each of which is
entitled to and receives treatment
from many angles.
The variety of the season's offerings
is unusually rich. Scientists, his
torians, sociologists, biographers, critics
political economists, romancers, pro
phets, publicists military experts,
dramatists, poets, philosophers, psy
chologists, rationlists, mystics, and
idealists have all been busy, each crying
to a busy world: "Here is the best
that was in me. Share the fruits of
my researches and my meditations."
What a glorious privilage it is, this op
portunity to reap where cthen have
sown. How fortunate thj man or
woman who has learned to find com
panionship through books with the
choicest spirit of all ages. How empty
the ambitions and vain the pursuits of
the social climber in contrast. There
is no friend that is more long-suffering
than a good book. It suffers years of
neglect, without resentment, and is
ready to pour out its treasures when
ever they are welcome.
Nothing is more acceptable than a
book as a Chrsitmas present, when
well chesen. It is the most endur
ing of gifts ana keept tender memories
alive. It is a coin current among
kindred minds. It may be the vehicle
of the subtlest intellectual compliment,
when there is evidence of real dis
crimination. Whenever a new book
or a new edition of a classic, there is
no other gift so admirably adapted to
strengthen the ties between giver and
recipient. Globe Democrat.
Poor Methods Of Buying.
People in rural districts, particularly
in the West, have no conceptions of
the effect of buying habits in the cities
upon the cost of living. The fanner
buys his sugar by the 100 pound sack.
City consumers buy largely in two
pound or five pound packages. Most
of the commodities the city man buys
are delivered in the smallest parcels
it is practicable for the dealer to sell.
Comparatively few city homes have
more than a day's supply of food on
hand. This method of handling food
is necessarily expensive. It takes as
much of a clerk's time to sell one pound
of sugar as to sell a hundred pounds.
It cost more than a hundred times as
much to deliver 100 pounds of sugar
in 1-pound packages as to deliver it in
one package, for the small packages
require wrapping paper, twine, handl
ing, entries on bills, etc. The eastern
city resident buys his apples by the
quarter peck, whereas the westerner
buys by the barrel or box. If city
people could adopt the western and
country method of buying, the high
cost of living would be largely sclvcd.
Canada, also, is enjoying great in
dustrial prosperity. Her people pro
duce many commodities needed in war
and for which high prices are paid by
exporters. But Canada is not boast
ing of her prosperity. No politician
there would dare to boast of it, for
Canada knows only too well the nature
of its basis.
"Belgium appeals to the United
States" Headline. Hope springs
eternal in the human breast. Charles
City(Ia.)Pres.
A Housekeepers' Embargo.
The housekeepers of the United
S'.ates might establish an embargo on
foodstuffs more potent than any law
that can be enacted by Congress.
They have but to say that they will not
b ay certain foods at the prices now
charged, or that they will reduce their
purchases to minimun requirements,
and then do as they say. To some ex
tent such an embargo is already in
operation, established in many families
by the compulision of circumstances,
but it has not reached the point where
its weight turns its ballance downward
We are all so much the slaves of habit
in our appetites that it is with great
reluctance we make anv change in our
dietary. We want what we want,
whatever the cost, if we have the price
and while we loudly complain about
the cost of living we continue to buy
in the usual quantities. Yet it is
within the power of the housewives of
the couutry to force prices in to a low
er level by united action in the prac
tice of kitchen economies. There are
many things to which we are accustom
ed that we can do very well without
perhaps to our benefit, and the con
sumption of the absolute necessities
can be greatly reduced by the exercise
of mere care in the preparation of foods
and in the prevention of waste.
Whatever may be the facts in regard
to conspiracies 'to advance the price
ot certain commodities it is none the
less true that the advances are based
upon the extraordinary demand, upon
a demand that is greater than the sup
ply and prices, whether they are natur
ally or artifically raised must automatic
ally come down. That redu:tion is in
she hands of the women. But ml
they act? Ah, there's the rub. Hu
uiau uamre is on me siue oi tne mar
kethuman nature, masculine as well
as feminrae, or rather more masculine
than feminine. Women are more dis
nosed to self-denial at the table than
men, and even were the women willing
to enter upon a period of restriction the
influence of the majority of men would
be against it unless impelled to it by
actual necessity. We can still pay the
bills; why should we deny ourselves?
is the altitude that always prevents con
ceried action in such matters, and no
doubt will now prevent. Various com
munities are endeavoring to organzie
boycotts on eggs. We can live with
out eggs, and if all of us or a majority
of us stopped eating them the market
would go to pieces. But we will not
slop eating eggs if we have the price.
If George can't afford eggs let him do
without it. A housekeepers embargo
is theoretically practical, but human
nature is against it. Globe Democrat.
A National Park in Missouri.
Enos A. Mills is a naturalist and a
student of all life, animate, and inani
mate, who has camped in many states
and has lived most of the time in the
open for many years. He should know
a good scene when he sees it and in
telling the City Club the other day that
the Missouri Ozarks offer a number of
fine sites for a national park he con
firmed us in an opinion we have more
than once expressed. The Ozarks of
fer more than one fine site for such a
use, but Mr. Mills is right in assuming
that a national park should be at a
point traversed by the White River,
one of the most charming streams in
the United States.
He told the City Club that what
such a park in the Ozarks would mean
to St. Louis as a final point of depart
ure for pilgrims out of the East and
North enroute to see a national park
much larger than those in the Rocky
Mountain section. The great range of
picturesque land in Colorado, long
called the Estes' Park, he told the
club attracted very very few people
while so named. It is possible that
many travelers imagined it to be a re
sort where the carbaret flourished and
other things of which they had grown
tired. At any rate, Estes Park was
near a Pilgiims Mecca. Since being
taken over by government and called
the Rocky Mountain National Park it
has attracted thousands. Last summer
86,000 visitors who aie estimated to
have brough $3,000,000 into the state
and disbursed it there. A national
park in the Ozarks would be approxi
mately 1000 miles nearer to tke East
than is any in Colorado. And at least
for a number of years it would be some
thing new.
Mr. Mills thinks that out of its great
estate of picturesque scenery in the
Ozarks, Missouri should build a num
ber of state parks, and that in employ
ing convicts to make the roads needed
for their development and in getting to
and fro from them, it could do some
thing toward solving the convict labor
problem which is still embarassing it
and getting worse.
Farmer Vs City Consumer.
Washington, Dec. 6, (Special Cor
respondence) War even to the knife
between the Granges and the Libor
Unions is the pleasant little prospects
which the man who kept us out of war
is facing as a result of any attempt to
embargo foodstuffs. Representative
Fitzgerald, a Brooklyn boy, born and
reared, is scheduled to fire the first
shot when he offers his measure to
stop further shipments of farm products
out of this conutry. The only farm
product with which Fitzy is familiar
is the potato, better known to him as
"spud," and he couldn't tell a pedi
greed Jersey milch-cow from the Bull
of Basham, cm a bet. But Fitzggerald
has good backing none less than that
of the two Presidints of the United
States, Messrs. Wilson and Sam Gom
pers, behind whom will be the rank
aud file of union laborers, who are get
ting from 33 to 50 per cent more pay
than two years ago, and the "city
cousins" who extract most ol their
nutriment from the can and who re
cently gave Mr. Wilson a vote of
thanks for a condition of prosperity
which they have suddenly discovered
never existed for them, To meet
these cohorts, the National Grange is
mobilizing its strength, aud some
modern Cincinnatus will soon be call
ed from the plow to lead the hosts i f
agriculture in the fray.
Never has a more ridiculous situa
tion presented itself to the people of
tne united states. Less than one
month ago a lot of short, fat orators
were haranguing the populace concern
ing our wonderful prosperity, and
long, lean candidate for reelection was
assuring them it was not due to the war
conditions. The farmer drove his load
of wheat to the market and sold it for
$1.75 a bushel and 'lowed it would be
just as well to let thing- go on as they
were going. The rural credits board
was flooding the country with literature
assuring the farmer that if he ever got
hard up he cculd borrow ail the money
he wanted from the Federal Farm
Loan Board and the Democrats were
convincing him that never again would
he be hard up. The city man had
prosperity dinned into him until he
began to draw imaginary checks upon
an imaginary bank account and look
over the schedules of Florida-bound.
boats.
But the election is over and every
thing is changed. We awake to find
the prosperity due to huge exports of
manufactured war materials in the
hands of a few men, while the farmer's
share in that prosperity is threatened
with an embargo, and the slogan of
the labor unions has been amended
to read "Feed America First!" The
farmer who had his products free-listed
by the Democrats, "because they
oved him so" is to receive another
token of their affection, if Wilson and
itzgerald have their way. The city
man 13 resorted to oatmeal and the
bread line is beginning to wind its
sinuous way through the city streets.
But why pick on the farmer? Official
figures show that during the first nine
months of 1913, which was the last
nine months ot protctive tariff, our im
ports of foodstuffs and food animals
totaled $296,000,000, while during
the first nine months of 1914, under
the Democratic tariff law, they in
creased $87,000,000. Exports of these
products fell off $28,000,000 during
the 1914 period. Imports of articles
parti and wholly maunfactured total
ed 8666,000,000 during the 1913
period, and but S532,000,000 during
the 1914 period. During the first
nine months of 1915, a war period, ex
ports of farm products rose to $771,
000,000, an increase of about 122 per
cent over 1914, 'and for the first nine
months of 1916 they totaled 5773,
000,000, cr about he same percentage
increase. On the other hand, exports
of manufactured articles totaled f 1,
203,000.000 during the first nine
months of 1915, and $2,608,000,000
duing the first nine months of the
current year, an increase over 1914 of
260 per cent. Clothing, chemicals,
hardware, building materials every
thing needed in this life, and even
coffins when we are dead, have increas
ed in price. Why should the farmer
alone be burdened with an embargo,
when he has been the chief sufferer
from Democratic policies? That is
what someone will have to answer the
National Grange in a satisfactory
manner.
Help For Suffering Germans.
Because Germany is not invaded at
any point, and her armies are fighting
on foreign soil, the mind jumps too
hastily to a conclusion that her people
are suffering little more of deprivation
than a restaicted diet enforced by law
as a measure of food conservation.
We fail in remembering that the re
stricted diet imposed by law must be
far beyond the means of a multitude of
women and cnildren whose fathers and
husbands have fallen along the firing
lines in the East and West, leaving
them without the soldier's pay, and
with only the pittance which the Ger
man Government grants them in
pensions. The real condition of these
unfortunates is strikingly shown in a
letter a few days ago sent to George B.
McClellan, chairman of the American
Relief Committee, by James W.
Gerard United Slates ambassador to
the German Empire, uojc on leave of
absence in this country.
In this communication Ambassador
Gerard commends mork now being un
dertaken by the Committee for Allevia
tion of Suffering among war widows and
orphans in Germany. "There is real
need in Germany for this work," the
ambassador assures Mr. McClellan.
"There are probably over a million
widows and orphans who have been
left practically penniless by reason of
the death of their protectors at the
front. True enough, the government
awards a small pension to these widows,
but it is not nearly enough to keep the
wolf from the door. We are endeavor
ing to feed these destitute people
through the medium of relief kitchens
in Berlin and other German towns.
Every cent contributed will be used
for the purpose without one cent of
expense deducted. The money will
be sent to Berlin by wireless, and I
will distribute it in Germany through
the United States consuls there, wher
ever the need is greatest.
Such an appeal and guarantee will,
we think, be enough to arouse the
sympathy of the people of this country,
bound by so many ties of blood Jand
kindred, and of friendly feeling to the
people of Germany. Humanity alone
might be trusted to do much in the
richest county in the world. But Am
bassador Gerard has done well to add,
in the letter to Mr. McClellan, the
words: "I shall be careful to let the
German public know whence the
money comes, and I hope the Germans
will come to realize that the people of
America sympathize with the suffering
and needs of the widows and orphans
everywhere, and are willing to amelior
ate such conditions wherever found."
The opportunity to remove an impres
sion which we feel sure does injustice
to Americans is offered by the Ameri
can Relief Committee, 13 Park Row,
New York, which will turn over con
tribution funds to Ambassador Gerard
for distribution. Globe Democrat.
We notice that sometimes the man
who has all the political dope right on
the end of his tongue, misses his shot
about as far as the rest of us. But
eved at that be has lots of lun.
