lUtt Historical Society J4
issouRi Message,
On your label In k date;
Renew before It la too late.
VOLUME 18
MEXICO, MISSOURI, THURSDAY, DECEMBER 7, 1016.
NUMBER 2.
BURLINGTON GETS
PERMIT TO BUILD
To Coustruct Line 35 Mile? I.ou
From Moii'H) City lo Moberly.
Jefferson City, Mo., T;c. 5. Ap
proval of the plans of the Chicago,
Burlhigton & Quincy Railroad Com
pany to buiH a lino 45 miles long
from Monroe 01: to Moberly wa3 an
nounced last night bv Chatrma:i Wil
liam O. Busby, o; the Public Service
Commission. A certificate of con
venience and public necessity will be
issued at once.
H. J. Nelson, assistant geneiul so
licitor of the Burlington, who vas
here yesterday, said .ha Sulld'.ng of
this line is part of the general scheme
of he Atchison, Topeka &. Sauta Fe
to enter St. Louis.
The Burlington and Santa Fe, he
said, will use the Monroe City-Mober-ly
lipe jointly for Kansas City-Chicago
traffic over the line the Santa Fe
will build from Carrollton, Mo., to
Mexico, Audrain county. This Line
will interseot the line from Monroe
City at Moberly.
In return for entrance Into. St.
Louis over the Burlington line from
Mexico, the Santa Fe will allow the
Joint use of its tracks from Moberly
to Carrollton and thence into Kansas
City over its maih line.
This Mr. Nelson outlined as the
general plan of the two companies.
The Santa Fe Plan for the Carrollton
Mexico line has not yet been filed with
the Commission, but is expected daily
Both lines, Nelson said, will be con
structed at once. The Burlington
will benefit by getting a much more
direct line and easier grades between
Kansas City and Chicago and the
" Santa Fe will gain an entrance into
St. Louis that It has desired for
years over a short line from Kansas
City.
From Carrollton to Mexico the new
Santa Fe linew will closely parallel
the Wabash Kansas City-St. Louis
Jine.
Weekly Market Letter
Furnished by Woodson-Fennewald
. Com'. Co., -Nat'l Stock Yds., 111.)
National Stock Yards, 111., Dec. 6,
916. Cattle receipts have been
moderate this week and the market
trong on choice kinds, 10 to 15c
lower on medium kinds. Top $11.75
for one load of 1450 pound steers
which we sold today, which are the
highest priced cattle ever sold in the
history of this market.
Bulk of the choice steers selling
10.75 to $11.75. Good $9.00 to
10.00. Medium $7.25 to $8.25.
Fair killers $6.50 to $7.15.
Choice heifers $9.00 to , $9.85.
Good $8.00 to $8.65. Medium $6.25
to $6.65. Fair $5.25 to $5.65.
Choice cows $7.00 to $7.75. Good
G.10 to $6.60. Medium $5.25 to
5.65. Cutters $4.75 to $5.00. Can-
ners $4.25 to $4.50.
Choice bulls $7.25 to $7.75. Good
6.25 to $6.75. Medium $5.50 to
6.00.
Sheep receipts 3,000, market
steady. Good- to best sheep $7.75 to
8.25. Fair to good $6.50 to $7.00.
Good to choice Iambs $12.25 to
12.60. Fair to good $11.50 to
12.00. Medium lambs $9.00 to
10.00.
Hog receipts 14,000 today. Mar
ket 10 higher. Bulk of the good
butchers and heavies $10.10 to
10.20. Good mixed andlights $9.80
to $9.90. Good 125 to 135 pound
pigs $8.85 to $9.00. Good light pigs
8.00 to $8.50. Packers $9.25 to
9.50.
Mrs. Ed. Mitchell, who formerly
lived southwest of Mexico, died at
er late home in Hirapton, 111., last
week. The husband survives her;
besides there are four children
two daughters and two ans.
The ladies of Rising Sun Church
will give an oyster supper and bazaar
at the home of S. P. Carter next Sat
urday night, Dec. 9th. Everybody
come.
John W. Hanger, out beyond Wor
cester, is in Kansas City, visiting his
auld lang syne friend, Charlie Cas
per, and his son, Charlie Hanger, the
latter engaged In the law business
In the big town on the Kaw. Mr
Hanger anticipates a fine time. '
J. J. Wood attended the 39 th con
ventlon of the Ancient and Accepted
Scottish Rite in St. Louis. Mr. Wood
was in a class of 128 persons that
were raised to the 32nd degree.
Splint Barnett and Tom Bass are
In Chicago this week at the Interna
tfonal Live Stock Exposition . with
several fine Audrain county horses
for exhibition.
Mrs. Frederick Hatch has return
ed to her home In St. Louis after a
visit with her sister,) Mrs. James El
worth Martin. Mrs. Martin gave a
reception to her many friends during
the visit of Mrs. Hatch. Mrs. Axle
Birch Held of Washington, D. t?., and
Mrs. Atkins were also guests of
honor.
Judge Samuel Davis of Marshall is
presiding over the Audrain County
Circuit Court this week on account
of cases pending in which Judge E
S. Gantt is disqualified, he having
acted as counsel for parties in the
cases at former hearings.
Christmas is near and we have lot
of Toys, Vplls, Sleds, Neckties. Hand
kerchief a and overvjnlng in SUrisluia
Presents "Come and Sen."
THE ENTERPRISE STOR1
Rev. O. L, Byrjis, pastor of the Pres
byterian church at Festus, Mo., who
has been in Chicago for several week
taking some special course in the
Moody Bible Institute, was In Mexico
Tuesday visiting his invalid mother!
Mrs. Ida Byrns. He left for Wind
sor, Mo., Wednesday morning, where
he will join his wife and daughter
who have been the guests of Mrs
Byrns' parents during his absence.
. W. W. FRY, reilent. ,
MEXICO SAVINGS BANK
II - - ' '
44th Year In Business
II . Capital Stock $100,000 ,
M J. It. JESSE,
H
Cashier.
MASONIC LODGES UNITE.
VERDICT FOR DEFENDANT
I'-bron nml Mexico Colsolldate by J. V. Fry Lout Out in Suit Against
nio.stl'niinlnioiiH Vote It Wns a! H. I). Hlirout, for Duiunxc for
Fine Move. $3,000.
Hebron and Mexico Masonic
Lodges have voted to consolidate.
Mexico surrendered her charter and
unites with Hebron. Both were pros
perous orders. It was a fine spirit
shown that Mexico-thus disbands to
unite with the brother order. It
will make for good.
"Behold how good and how pleas
ant it is for brethren to dwell togeth
er in unity."
In celebration of the above action
a jubilee Is to be held some time
during January or February.
The Lodge voted to attend St.
Johns Day services In a body at the
Eplcopal Church in Mexico at three
p. m., Sunday, Dec. 31st.
j The jury in the case of .1. V. Fry
against H. D. Shrout for $5,000 dam
ages, returned a verdict In the Circuit
Court Tuesday in favor of tin defend
ant. The iuit was for dirr.age.j al
leged to have been rjsjivad tey Mr.
'Fry w m a te.im he wu t-iv'n on
I Promenade street June 10, 1915, were
frightened by an automobilj driven
by Mr. Shrout and ran away, tl:iow
j ins Mr. Fry ir.'ii the -.vajji an.! In
juring him that he wan for s.irje
time Incapacitated for wcrk. Mr. Fry
j was represented by Attorneys 11. IJ.
Rodgers and E. A. Shaino.i, while
E. P. Rosenborgpr, of Montgomory
:Clty, and J. W. lUilllngton were at
torneys for Mr. Shrout.
Candy! Candy! Candy! ai.d pood
Candy, too, at 2 lbs. lor 25c. One
lb. box of Chocolates at 2 So. Always
a fresh supply on hartf.
THE ENTERPRISE STORE
Mrs. Charles Robbins. formerly
I Miss Carrie Berry of this city, died
I at Milwaukee, Wis., Sunday. She
was the daughter of Mrs. George Ber-
l ry here. Two sisters and two broth
ers here also survive Mrs. Joseph
Buttler, Mrs. John Williams, and
' Shelby and Ben Eerry.
ELKS MEMORIAL.
FORGET IT
(By Judge Mortimer Lewis )
The Christinas tree is all aliirht between ns and the
trenches; beyond it lies a grievous fight and suffering and
stenches: this side of it are all things irood. and little folks
are singing, and over field and stream and wood their Joy
ous tones are winging. So let us pull the curtain down
on periscopes and dying, and spread our smiles all over
j. i i i" i i ti i.'.ii. ii. t
iuwii, anu cut out sods anu signing, l rie nine ioiks Know
nauirht of war. and the little folks are haonv: thev have no
notion what it's for nor why the kings are scrappy ; and we
know no more than they do of the outlandish reason ; so let
us sing: "The skies are blue, it is Christmas season!" So let
us bring the turkey in and tote in wood for mother, and pol"
h up your Christmas grin and try to love our brother,
he world s full of friendshin vet. the world is filled with
oving. and love outshines a coronet, and sympathy beats
hoving. So let us load the Christmas tree and let us wear
posy and join the children in their gflee at ring-a-round-a-
rosy ! Houston Tost.
The Message 13 glad to wec )rzs Mr.
and Mrs. J. Tom Miller of north of
Benton City, as residents of Mexico.
The County Court granted license
i to James Myers for a pool hall at
IRush Hill.
A. N. Day hands us a plunk for The
Message.
Dr. F. M. Shoush's practice at the
Sanitarium is opening -up nicely.
Mrs. W. T. Swinney has moved
back to Mexico from St. Louis, that
she may be near her father, Dr. J. B.
Hawkins, who has been quite ill lately.
Earl (Underwood, of Liberty dis
trict, IS the hr.ppy father of a soV
WilUjrfn Martin Underwod, born
Dec. 5th. Named for his two grand
fathers, Martin Hildebiand and Wil
liam Underwood.
Mrs. II. P. Warden has returned
from a pleasant visit In Virginia.
Postmaster Selph of Ht. Louis Deliv
ers Brilliant Address to Tho Mex
ico Lodge on Lust Sunday.
Hon. Colon M. Selph of St. Louis
delivered the principal address In
Mexico last Sunday at the memorial
services of the Elks Lodge. Mitchell
White spoke words of eulogy for L.
M. Morris, the only member of the
local lodge who had died thru the
year.
Mr. Selph extolled the members
who had died during the past years
as merybers of an organization which
was founded upon the cardinal prin
ciples of fidelity, charity, justice and
brotherly love.
A number of fine musical selec
tions were given. Mr. and Mrs.
Selph were entertained at the home
of Mr. and Mrs. W. R. Jackson here
Where They Live, Their Families and
Somewhat of How They Manage
Farm Affairs.
J. E. Northcutt: Is a native of
Warren county. Came to Audrain In
884. Has 230 acre farm six miles
south of Vandalia; well improved.
His wife was Miss Florence Kisor,
whose former home was near Musca
tine. Iowa.
If you want the St. Louis Daily R.
F. D. Republic, $3.00 per year, new
subscriber or renewal, please notify
D. H. Boatwright, Laddonia, Mo.
Mrs. Irvin Biggs, of the home neigh
borhood; Marie, in Vandalia High
School, and Harold. Irl and Norma
Lee. A son, Edwin Carroll, died m, Tuesday of this week. Tnere are
8S4. three children Charles Q. of Chi-
. , ... . , cago. Mrs. R. J. Offutt. of the home
Frank Skellv: Living on cart of
the place where he was born, the Old : neighborhood, and John H.. who
John Skelly farm, seven miles north-'lives with his father; they farm to-
east of Mexico, owns 120 acres, all'gether. Mr. Baker has 240' acres
nicely improved. Lately has put injof ,and He and his son cultivated
a number of concrete walks leading ;9() acre8 o( cora thi(J gea8on They
to me residence, his wire was miss
Bessie Davis, daughter of Mr. andihave 20 cows on hal,d- Tney don 1 :
Mrs. J. Hord Davis, now of Mexico. Hk thC9a cows., let calves go with
They have four interesting children the mothers and make beeves.
Frances, James, Harold, and Ma-
Holiday S
pecials
At The House of Quality
Cameo Lavalier, -An artistic Pink Cameo
in a solid gold mounting, chased front,
green gold finish, with solid gold chain all
complete in velvet case, for . . $7.50
Link Buttons, Soft cuff style with large I
. ends; the kind you can't lose, in the new
Cslestro finish, gold-filled quality, pr.J2.5C
Diamond Rings on Sale Saturday, Dec. 9
We have just set in rings all the small lots of loose diamonds left from
last year's stock and offer them to our customers at jast year's prices
Everyone of.these rings priced at $25.00, $35.00, $50.00 and
up to $75 are worth from $5 to $10 more than vye are asking.
Oar name on the box
lends an added value to
your gift. '
Step in and
Look Around
We sell goods that won't
come back lo people that
will , .
Worrell, The Jeweler
PETIT JUROKH INTERVIEWED.
of Wm. Craig, who lived near Bryan
Station. They have six children
C. C, D. V., E. M., Tabetha, Helen,
and Russell R. ('. C. Mildred is mar
ried. All in all the C. A. Mildred
family is a most interesting one.
W. J. Baker: Born in Callaway
county. Came to Audrain in 1866.
Settled on headwaters of Loutre
Creek. 12 miles southeast of Mexico.
There are five children: , Lived in that neighborhood ever
since. His wife was Miss Susan C.
Bullard. She died seven years ago
bel. Frances is a pupil at Hedgedale.
W. C. Shoup: Born at Carthage,
Mr. Skelly rotates his corn and oats Came to this State in 1869. Sot-
crops never one season following tied on Wildcat Creek, northeast of
the other with, the same crop. He Mexico. Now owns the 210 acre
uses barnyard fertilizer. 1 Jnh Di.kev Airm on West Lick.
George R. Mosby, born 1868 on old north of Ru9h H11L Married MisS
homestead 10 miles southeast of Van- Fannie Eckler of Martmsbuig.
dalia, 200 acres of which he now There are two children Mrs. EJ
owns and which he occupies as a win Webber of Vandalia and Bar-
home. The land was entered from
the Government by his father in 1852
baia. at home, attending district
school. He has the following broth-
at 12 1-2 cents an acre. Mr. Mosbv
is a brother of Mrs. Lucy Vandeven- er living: M. H.. F. M., of this coun
ter, of Mexico. He married Miss No- ty: E. E.. Carter. Mont.;H. W.. nortii
ra Neal, of Vandalia, daughter of of Ru8tt H1: Charlie, near Mexico.
the late Isaac Neal. They have two and Clyde, at Endicott, Wash.
children, Majgaret Susanna and Mir
iam Neal, aged 10 and 7 years re-
J. H. Culwell: Born and reared
pectively, both in the rural school, on the 240 acre farm where he yet
Raising Duroc-Jersey hogs is Mr. lives ten miles south of Vandalia.
Mosby's long suit as he expresses it. His wife was Miss Maggie Bell, a na
He calls his farm "The Duroc Stock, tive of Audrain but raised in Pike,
Farm." inear New Hartford. They have four
I children Joseph. Janis; Ray and
J. D. Lewellen, born near Spencer- vinta. Mr. Culwell raises hegs, cai-
uurg. Pike county. Attented the Me- .ie alui 8heeD. He likes a joke a
"une school, where the editor of The.iittie fuu now and then, even if it's
Message had him In training for a at tne expense of the editor.
ouple of winters. He came to Aui j
rain in KSSS. Owns a fine 200-acrc r P Jaiolis: A native of Scott
'arm four miles south of Vandalia. j county, Ky. Came to Missouri in
His wife, before their marriage was 1875. Settled iu Marion county.
Miss Kate Pritchett. daughter of J. Cauie to Audrain lu 1880. Bought a
D. Pritchett, who now resides in Lad-7? ucre I'arm two miles northwest of
donia. There are three children iupII nk. where he has lived ever
Mrs. C. M. Whitledge, who lives in 8iiKe. The farm is well improved. It
the home neighborhood; Warren E . Karber, known as the John Still
who is a prominent teacher, who last mostly in grass. Ha looks after
June married Miss Flossie Parker, the small things on the farm the
another noted teacher, and Clarence, ! profits from the cows and poultry
who lives on the home larm Mr.1 trot ilose attention. His wife was
Lewelleu deals in live stock exten- j
sively and often has shipments on
the market.
J. C. Terry: Born in Logan coun
ty, Ky. Came to Missouri 1865. Now
owns a fine little farm seven miles
northwest of Sturgeon, in Saling
township. Has followed farming and
the carpenter's trade for 30 years.
The wife was Miss Anna McCulre of
Elk county, Kansas. There are Ave
-hildren all girls. Augie, Fay. Bor
nice. Anna Lee and Pansy. All arc
industrious and each worth more'n
a million dollars.
O. A. Mildred: Native of Au
drain; birthplace four miles north
of Hatton. Lived there until 1883.
Farmed three years north of Mar
tlnaburg. Now runs' a nice faim
four miles east or Mexico. His wife
was Miss Julia Craig, daughter
MLs Margaret 'Jiiaw ot Marion
county. They have two children liv
ing Miss Lureim. who is living at
home, and A. E. V. Jacobs, who is
cr.e of the rural mail carriers out of
Farber.
Milton French, brother of the late
W. H. French, of this city, cnea re
cently at his home in California,
aged 83 years. He left a fortune of
over a million dollars. For several
years iu bis youth ho worked on a
farm at $30 a year.
A negro highwayman on East Mon
roe street late Monday night put a
gun In Voorhles Coons' face and forc
?d him to give up his watch and 112
in money. .
v Ed. F, Kuukel was operated na
Sunday for the removal of his tonsils.
