m s r .... " , - " !,'''-' . ."' " "
qTxXO. 225. "bARRK. VERMONT, THURSDAY, DECEMBER 7, 1010. j?1CE' 0XE CKXTt ,
FATE OF ARMIES
EVACUATING CITY
STILL IN DOUBT
There Is Fear in London Mil
itary Circles That at Least
One JJusso-Rumanian Ar
my Was Cut off from Re
treat from Bucharest
When the City Fell
MORE THAN 9,000
TAKEN WEDNESDAY
Official Report from German
Headquarters Also An
ounces the Capture of
Campino, Located on the
Railroad Between Kron
stadt and Ploechti Ru
manians in Full Retreat
The brief dispatches in which the fall
of Bucharest was announced left in doubt
to-day the fate of the armies which were
resisting the advance of the Teutonic in
vaders. It was assumed in most quar
ters, however, that there was no last
stand before the capital and military
comrnentators point to the probability of
the actions just prior to the capture of
Bucharest being fought merely with a
view of delaying the advance of the Ger
mans and aiding in the escape of the
main body of Rumanians, The capture
of Ploeschti, a railway junction 36 miles
.north of Bucharest, however, may have
blocked the retreat of part of the Ruma
nian forces.
100
,000 RUMANIANS
WERE CAPTURED
IN THE CAMPAIGN
Berlin Newspaper Reports Also That
Bucharest Was Virtually Desert
ed When Captured and City
Waa Not Damaged.
London, Dec. 7. Since hostilities
against Rumania began 100,000 Rumani
ans have been brought to German pris
on camps, according to a Copenhagen
dispatch to the Exchange Telegraph com,
pany, quoting the Berlin Lakal Anzeiger.
The paper reports that prior to its cap
ture Bucharest was nearly deserted and
the city was uninjured.
Bucharest, the capital of Rumania, is
in the hands of the forces of the cen
tral powers.
Exactly one hundred days after tha
declaration of war by Rumania against
them finds the Teutonic allies in con
trol of about 50,0l0 square miles of Ru
manian territory virtually one half
of the kingdomrunning from the
Trailsylvanian Alps northwest of the
capital to the Danube south of it, and
a large part of Dobrudja, and probably
still on- the heels of the retreating Rus
sian and Rumanian armies, which have
been endeavoring to hold them back.
Simultaneously with the announce
ment of the fall of Bucharest came the
news of the capture of the important
railroad junction of Ploechti and north
cf the capital, the conquest of which
places in the hands of the invaders the
lust railroad in the west and gives to
them the head of the line running north
ward of Jassy, where the capital of Ru
mania is now situated.
Xo details have yet come through
concerning the climax to the great drive
of the armies of General Von Falkenhyn,
and Field Marshal Von Mackensen, or
whether the Rumanians and Kussians
succeeded entirely in making their escape
behind the Bucharest line. Previous to
the announcement of t he capture of
Bucharest and of Ploechti unofficial ad
vices had indicated that four divisions
of the defenders were in a hazardous po
sition in the region due west of Bucha
rest and in danger of being enveloped.
With the fall of Bucharest the Teuton
ic allies are now in possession of four
capitals of entente allied states, the oth
ers being Brussels, Belgrade and Cet
tinje. In the northwest, in the Carpathian
region near the Bilkow ina frontier and
along the Moldavia front the Russian
oirciisive, begun as a diversion against
the Teutonic advance into Rumania, ap
parently is meeting with little success.
In the Carpathians west of Jablonitza
the Russians occupied a height but later
were shelled off the position by the Ger
mans. To the south they succeeded in
penetrating to the second line of the
German defenders in the Trotus valleyj
but here were held by the defenders from
further advance. North of the Oitur
pass and southeast of Kedri Varsahely
the Austro-Germans tooks positions from
the Russian.
TEUTONS TAKE TOWN
EAST OF BUCHAREST
ON RAILROAD LINE
Wireless Message From Berlin Reports
Capture of Campino, Lying Be
tween Kronstadt and
Ploechti.
Berlin, via w ir. bvs. IVe. 7. The de
feated Rumanians are retreating along
the whole front, the war office announces.
THE'
- , .
Teutonic troops ltave captured Campino
on the railroad between Kronstadt and
Ploechti. In yesterday's fighting, more
than 0,000 Rumanian were captured.
PORTUGUESE PORT
WAS BOMBARDED
BY GERMAN BOATS
Funchal in Madeira Was Shelled Two
Hours and 34 People Killed, While
Two Steamer Were
Torpedoed.
Lodon, Dee. 7.- 3"he French gunboat
Surprise lias been sunk by German sub
marines at Funchal, Madeira, according
to an announcement by the Portuguese
minister of marine in a wireless dispatch h 11 '
received here from Lisbon. Thirty-four jation. A meeting of the party was held
of the crew of the gunboat perished. A! this morning, at which it was decided U
few Portuguese were also killed aboard
the steamers Kangtiroo and Dacia, which
were torpedoed, according to the dis
patch. A dispatch to the Exchange Telegraph
from Lisbon says:
'"News received from Madeira says that
34 persons were killed in the bombard
ment of Funchal. The submarines
shelled the shore for two hours, especial
ly the English cable station and other
I"""1 "". ""'- " " ;
ii-aa rinn. Thn arnamera Rilmmrnn Find
l.l:- i t.i,.rrn
Dacia were torpedoed
ie, 0 " -
A dispatch to the Havas agency from
Lisbon dated Monday savs a suhmarine
flred 50 shells on Funchai, capital of the
island of Madeira. The population,
frightened, fled and only returned wl.cn;";1111;" ,mm "
the submarine departed under an intense!
, f iiiurtr i i.hi mr unit' n in ire iiumuru in
fire from the fortress. I,, . ,
The dispatch adds that the fire from 'e , mor'" W re-
h. ...hm.rinr, .truck a shin, killing sixlfra,n from predicting or even speculating
T . .
I oriugurse sailors.
The dispatch from the Portuguese mm- "7U e . i"-"-r 'f
ister of marine was dated Monday, show- 'tusk of hi p.J. ical career be ore him u
ing that the shelling of Funchal urrelTSnrally admitted. Some indicate doubt
prior to that date. I"s to wJn-ther he will triumph over the
Llovds announces that both the Dncia Kreat obstacles co.itronting him.
and the Kanguroo were torpedoed Sun-I lhcre a prospect yesterday aft
dav by a German submarine. jernoon that the personal offices of the
j king might solve the cabinet situation
m. ii.ii-.i ..ii i : and msnv .hmnrht. that, the Annitli re-
me i.acia was a inu.sn came ..nK
ZnZ: ThrKSV"r.7reJS
Indon. the Kanguroo was a 'rfnrn
w" Havre ' "
t," ,L.. cr,!M ... . ..! of
(536 tons. She .was 1S3 feet long and
carried a eomplrlnent of 100 men
Surprise was built in 1805.
The
RUMANIANS RESORT TO
REAR-GUARD ACTION
TO HOLD TEUTONS
Petrograd Official Statement Admits Fall
of Bucharest and Says Rumanians
are Retiring Under Presure.
Petrograd, via London, Dec. 7. Bucha
rest has been evacuated by Rumanian
troops, says to-day's official sfttement,
and the Rumanian forces south of theif. nd tnen to Mr. Llovd "
capital also have retired. In Wallachia.
the Rumanians are retreating towards :
the east under hostile pressure and are;'"";" lo . , .
holding the Teuton forces by rear-guard
actions.
WANTS TO FIGHT.
Because He Waa Called "Babbling Black
guard" in Russian Duma.
London, Dec. 7. Michael Rodzianko, Commons; either one must attach the
president of the Russian Duma, who re- Irish Nationalists or the laborites to it
signed recently on account of being in- self to command a majority. The Na
sulted by the leader of the extreme right, Itionalists have refused to participate in
M. Markoff, has appointed seconds td j the government until home rule becomes
nn AfarlsnfT unit ilomnml Eali.fuK. I nut u Kl itilia.l Tha laHnritps Wprft SWOrn
Tjt...
dispatch from Petrograd. M. Markoff, they resented his accusations that the . into the colony of American publications
at a session of the Duma called President : working men have put their personal in- jthnt have been excluded from Uie Kng
Rodzianko a "babbling blackguard" and 'terests above the national interests at I'-'h and Canadian territories. The reg
exnlained that he was deliberately in- ! times durimr the war. ulation specially prohibits the bringing
suiting the Duma in the person of presi
dent. Petrograd, via London, Dec. 7. After
yesterday's turbulent session of the Du
ma and a resolution expressing dissat-
isfaction with the "partial and ineffec-;
tual changes thus far made in the cabi
net" further ministerial resignations are
now regarded as inevitable.
GERMANS GAIN AT VERDUN
Despite Stubborn Resistance Offered by
the French.
Paris, Dec. 7. The French war office
last night issued the following state
ment: "On the Somme front artillery fight
ing was quite active on both sides in the
region of Bouchavesnes.
"In Champagne our artillery took un
der its fire and dispersed an enemy de
tachment northeast of Fontaine en Dor
meis. "On the left bank of the Meuse the
Germans, after intense artillery prepara
tion, attacked at 3:30 o'clock in the
afternoon a salient of our lines on the
slopes east of hill 304. Received with a
violent fire from our machine guns, the
enemy was able to gain a footing only in
some advanced elements."
BOTH CREWS SAVED
As Spanish and Danish Steamers Were
Sent to Bottom.
London, Dee. 7. Lloyds reports the
sinking by a submarine of the Danish
steamship Nexos and the Spanish steam
ship Julia Benito. Both crews were
saved.
A CIVILIANS' DECORATION
Similar to Iron Cross Has Been Prepared
By German Kaiser.
London. Dec. 7. The German emperor
has established a decoration for civilians i
similar to me iron cross, accoruing to a a irirgram niTuru iu uj oy me . rlectcil captain oi me aie luoinuii iem
Copenhagen dispatch to the Exchange Aliarado Mining and Milling company. for next wason. He has been on the var
telepraph company, quoting the Berlin iray is said to have been hanged by sity eleven two years as an end and
Lvkal Anzeiger. Villa's orders. tackle.
BARME DAILY
i
NEW PREMIER
ENLISTSMBOR
Lloyd George Turned at
Once to That Party
for Co-operation
MAKE-UP OF CABINET
NOT YET DETERMINED
Overthrow of Asquith Min
instry Was Full of Dra
matic Situations
London. Dec. ?. David Lloyd George,
the new prime minister, has opened ne
gotiations with the labor party with a
' iik if . uanirimv ltd um iiuii-r tt nil swfc.n rGT-
support any government pledged vigor
ously to prosecute the war and in which
labor was adequately represented.
Few, if any, Liberal members of As
quith's cabinet are likely to accept the
office under Lloyd George and some Un
ionist members like J. Austen Chamber
lain and Lord Kobert Cecil are likely
to stand aside. However, it is assumed
that at the conference at Buckingham
palace thev assured the new premier of
their benevolent neutrality, thus making
- ' . n
Ihe task simpler. It is believed that the
construction of the cabinet will be a mat-
J, . , . . , , ., . ,t ...
j 11 r " y a oa. or so ana ihhd
"trength can be made in the House of
j " " V . ","ru
" " 13 ' . ""l ' ,
Mill U1U Will IfUM l il.U VI lB CflUlMCC. X UtLW
4i... u:.. TUnk
, ,., , uo
," "" ' ' l" " , .
P artv to Bucking). T p
conferred with them more than an
!r. Mrf ,"1 Mr "d
'of the Liberal,. Mr. Bonar Law .nV
Mr. Balfour of the Unionists, and Mr.
Henderson of the Labor party, were with
l e M.nr riLii, it js iimiu jctin biiuc
i : ;
Ilr if i u ri ntlnf n ttdAm itlnil ttirt rdrtratPtit II
tives of the different factions face to "T', 11 ' j. u .
face when they had shown themselves! 1 he concern was pet it umcd into bank
unable to settle their differences. nt ! ruptcy Ve vera! day, ago by Samuel Gold
no such serious crisis has arisen before : i and Nav.stsy Brothers,
to require such action by the king. j h1 Npw ork- ,thfi I't't.onmg credit
Whatever passed in council is held se- claim., an act m bankruptcy in tie
cret. hut the inference that the kmc;r
tried to arrange a reconciliation appvars
a most natural one. The five states
men departed separately, four in their
motor cars, and
spokesman afoot.
the workingmen's
Afterward, the king gave an audience
to Mr. Bonar Law, who declined to un
j . . i . . i r . : , t - ......
"O
accepiea tn re.pt.n-m, ..it, h
anucipatcu ne wouia u w.e 1'P''J
l ue uu.i mi uii.tutiiii un.ciiw ioav 1111.1.
that Mr. Lloyd George had undertaken
the task with the co-operation of Mr.
I'onar Law, was a notification that the
new government would be coalition. Any
party government would 1 impossible
because neither the I'nionists nor the
liberals have a majority in the House of
,.f -vr, i l,.vJ r:..nr,rn iiAeansn
The country awaits the rising of the
curtain on the next act of this historical
and remarkable crisis with an expectan-ja
cv which never surrounded tho birth
Si - .
throes of any previous government. The
Lloyd Oeorge ministry means the direc
tion of the war by a dictatorship in the
form of an inner council of the cabinet
and means the scrapping of those elder
(statesmen whose supremacy in the coun
cils or tne nation, uniii iney cwmse m
withdraw from the scene voluntarily, has
always heretofore been regarded by the
British people as a matter 'of course.
Mr. Asquith. Mr. Balfour, Viscount
Grey and Lord iJndsowne "must go,"
the Lloyd George press has been crying.
But their going will be attended by wide
spread misgivings among the people, who
have thought their knowledge and ex
perience as necessary to the government
as the push rind driving; power of the
group which will succeed them, i
Mr. Uoyd George is committed to the
formation of a war council, and the mem
bership of that dictatorship will be the
most important and crucial work he will
have to ileal with. Andrew Bonar Law,
the Earl of Derby, and Sir Edward Car
son, all of them Conservatives, are most
talked of. Bonar Law and Lord
Derby would be generally approved, but
Sir Edward Carson has many critics, who
concede his talents as a brilliant lawyer,
but question whether he has also the
stability, sound judgment and business
experience for directing war measures.
AMERICAN HANGED
BY VILLA'S ORDER
Howard Gray, Mining Man at Pa ml.
Was Executed at Chihuahua, Accord
ing to Message at El Paso.
El Paso, Tex., Dee. 7. Howard Gray,
an American mining man at Parral, Chi
huahua, was killed bv Villa bandits when
they entered the town Nov. 5. according
"TRUSTY" BIDS FARWELL,
Left House of Correction Month4 Before
Sentence Expired.
Rutland, Deo. 7. Perley LaFogg, a
"trusty," is absent from the ranks in the
ermont house ot correction, and olllcers
throughout the state have been notified
to be on the lookout for him.
LaFogg, who had been Buffering with
rheumatism, was given outside worn
about a month ago and had been in the
habit of leaving the guard room about 8
o'clock each night to lock up the hen
house and look after an oil stove which
has been left burning in the pump room,
which contains a dynamo,
Tuesday night about 8 o'clock the pris
oner left the office and was not accom
panied by any guard. A little later
neither Guards AVaterman or Stringham
had seen the "trusty" and a search was
instituted. He was nowhere to be found
and it was the general belief that he had
obtained some liquor from an outside i
source and was asleep in one of tho
buildings. Yesterday morning, however,
he was not within the prison walls and
officers throughout the state were noti
fied of the elopement.
LaFogg was sentenced from the Brat
tleboro municipal court in September;
1915, for petit larcenv. After nerving
his sentence of from five to six months
Larogg i about five feet live indies
tall, of medium complexion,
bout Z7
years old and weighs about 140 pounds.
FINAL REPORT ON
DEMOCRATS' FINANCES
Shows Receipts of $1,808,348 and Dis
bursement of $1,684,590 with Other
Accounts to Be Settled.
Washington, D. C, Dec. 7. The final
t f le Democratic national com-
, on ju nwi t, and .
Ipenditurcs, tiled with the House to day,
I show, total receipts of $l,HO.34S and
total disbursements of $1,084.5!K. In ad-
dit ion , there are ascertained liabilities
of Jfr!7X.". The claims subject to audit
are $tf!,470 and the loans to be repaid
$32,00(1.
-1
SCHEDULES WERE FILED
In Involuntary Bankruptcy of the New
American Clothing Co.
Rutland, Dec. 7. -Schedules in the in
voluntary bankruptcy case of Alexander ,
CorPV aml Tonv Crv 0( larre. doinir
business as the" New American nothing
eompanv. were tiled with the clerk of the :
i'e.l States court. F. S. Piatt, yester-J
"-ruing and of h ,teros " the ;
' 1 - .
cause for the financial troubles of the
There ar opMt account I
i .... ...
ifon yanv
i HUM! II I I UK l" . lit " one nic mbiiv ,
' . ' ':
The schedules filed yesterday show the
concern has liabilities of $30,119. IS, of
which $29.9H4.68 is in unsecured claims.
These include hundreds of clothing, shoe
and rubber houses and other concerns,
some of them in Vermont.
The assets are given as $25,184.84.
The stock in trade, as reckoned bv the
. j, , i ajn
ors, amounts u, f u.d.tj.u
AttornfV(l U. A. Hoar and Albert A
Sargent cf i!rre are counsel for the
bankrupt concern.
NEWFOUNDLAND
PUTS A BAN ON
NEWSPAPERS
Makes it Offense Subject to Heavy Fine
to Have One of the Publications'
in One'a Possession.
St. Johns, Dec. 7. The Newfoundland
'covernment has . prohibited admission
' 01 me papers e.u.er oy mu or ire.i.v
and makes it illegal for anyone to have
copy in his possession, even if it is
! "nt by a friend abroad. . A heavy fine is
r . i .hi i : 1 t . U
.provided.
SECURES NEW INDUSTRY.
Bellows Falls to Have Branch of a Bos
ton Skirt Concern.
Bellows Falls, Dec. 7. Arrangements
were completed yesterday by H. S. Bish
op, chairman of-the industrial committee
of the Bellows Falls Chamber of Com
merce, and the M. A C. Skirt company of
Boston whereby the manufacturers will
open a brunch here. They will employ
between 50 and ) men and girls in the
manufacture of women's dress skirts.
Tho factory will be located on the
second floor of the I'nion block in the
business section of the village. The com
pany is probably the largest manufactur
er of single line women's dress skirts in
the country and has several branches
outside of the main factory in Boston.
The Keene (V. H.l Skirt company is a
branch of the firm, and the local branch
probably will be known as the Bellows
Falls Skirt company.
SUES ON CONTRACT.
Guy B. Horton Wants $1,300 From Pur
chaser of "The Advance."
Burlington. Dec, 7. Guy B. Horton
yesterday filed at the office of the clerk
of county court a case against Merle
MaeAIlister of Burnham, Me., with H. S.
Howard as trustee. The esse is one of
contract involving $2,000. the fecitiea
tions showing $000 due under contract.
Mr. MacAlIister very recently purchased
"The Advance" from Mr. Horton. the
$1,300 sued for being part of the pur
chase price.
Gates, Yale's Football Captain.
New Haven. Conn.. Dec. 7. Artemns
L, Gates of Clinton, la., was last night
nis sentence or irom nve to six mum... ,mnt to-day, contend, that the Brit
he was forced to remain in jail to work.jHh b WM guuk ,
out a fine which accompanied the 1 tne Vliterranean on November 6. was
tence of the court. He would have been "transport ship for troops in
discharged on Jan. 6 had he not left ; ,rmnent
without permission Tuesday night 9 rnniiili,i as an auxiliary
SAYS ARABIA
WAS TRANSPORT
.
Therefore
Germany De
clares Submarine Had a
Right to Sink Her
CALLS IT SIMILAR
TO MARINA CASE
However, Germany Would
Make Amends if Agree
ment Was Violated
Washington, D. C, Dee. 7. Germany,
in a note made public by the state de-
... afmlinl, , international law
i , ' " . . i u.
and can. therefore, be treated like a
warship."
The German government's attitude,
however, like that in the Marina case, is
' . , - ,- t,
amends if it is shown that the submarine
commander violated any of Germany's
pledges to the Lnited States
What action the state department will
take is problematical. If it is shown
that the submarine commander was mis
taken in holding the Arabia is a trans
port, a most serious situation will con
front the state department. At the time
the Sussex was sunk, Germany was told
this country could not tolerate "regret
table mistakes."
WANTS "DRY" DEMOCRACY.
Bryan Wants Party Committed to Pro
hibition Policy.
Washington. D. C, Dec. 7. Reforms to
which he hopes to commit the Democrat
ic party and to see accomplished within
the next four years were outlined last
night by Wiilia'm Jennings Bryan at a
dinner given in his honor by admirers
among Democratic officials and members
of Congress,
Nation wide prohibition ne
' urged
as most important and
other
causes on his list included woman .ttf.
frage by federal amendment, election of
,he president by direct popular vote .nd
changes to make the constitution more
r..j - ...v...
In addition to his program to be advo-
rated, Mr. Bryan gave a prominent place
, i t- l rt,,V. .
w " r k " " "j-"- -r
The effort to give the federal govern
ment exclusive control o"er railroad reg
ulation" and "the menace of militarism."
presented by proposals for universal mili
tary service.
Speeches lauding Mr. Bryan and par
ticularly his work for the party during
the campaign just, won were mane oy
manv of the diners, and a letter was
read' from President Wilson, with whom
the former secretary and Mrs. Bryan had
lunched during the day. The president
wrote:
"Will you'not be kind enough to con
vey my "very cordial greetings to Mr.
BrVan and to those who are assembled
f.i An him honor at toe dinner on
Wednesday evening! In the recent cam
paign no one rendered more unselfiesh
service than Mr. Bryan, and I am happy
to know that this dinner expresses the
genuine admiration of all Democrats for
him. Mav I not br this means convey
t.i him mv warmest congratulations and
best wishes for his continued health and
happiness?"
In reviewing at length the accomplish
ments of the Democratic administration,
Mr. Bryan said the work had been dona
in one short term "under the leadership
of a great Democratic president, loyally
supported by a Congress equally Demo
cratic." Regarding railroad regulation and mili
tary service, he said:
"An effort is now being made by the
railroads to secure legislation and if nec
essary a constitutional amendment, de
priving the states of all regulative power
over them and giving to Congress exclu
sive control over railroad regulation.
The consolidation of all railroad legisla
tion at Washington would not only
transfer to the national capital an
amount of work which would overwhelm
the national authorities, and therefore
decrease the efficiency of federal super
vision, but it would i.ring a railroad in
fluence into the election of every con
gressman and every senator as well as
intensify the railroads' interest in presi
dential campaigns.
"It would do more than that. It would
obliterate state lines, and lead to a cen
tralization which would threaten the
very existence of our dual form of gov
ernment. "We cannot afford to shut our eyes to
the menace of militarism as it is now
presented in concrete form. A large in
crease in the number of army and navy
officers drawing salaries for life, and
trained in a profession which teaches re
liance upon the steel blade rather than
on the sword of truth, tends to substi-
fnte false, standards of honor for Ihe
more peaceful standards that prevail
among the producers of wealth.
"It is not unnatural that the magnify
ing of the profession of arms should give
rt tha proposal for universal j
military service, a system which is not j
onlv unnecessary, but the adoption of
which could not fail to breed that mili
tary spirit which has contributed so
largely to the encouragement of war in
other lands."
SMALL INDICTED
FOR WIFE MURDER
Former Boston Broker Is Charged with
Killing Arlene C. Small at Tbeir
Summer Home Last FaJL
Ossipee, X. H.. Pec. 7 Frederick L.
Small, former Boston broker, was Indict
ed for murder to day by the grand jury
which investigated the death of his wife,
Arlene C. SnyIl. w ho w as strangled, hot
and beaten to death in her home here,
hich was burned in an attempt to con
ceal the crime last September.
V
TIMES
URGES MILITARY PRE
PARATORY SCHOOLS
The Graduates of Which Could Be Fur
ther Trained at West Point and An
napolis Secretary Baker Would
Dispense with Present System
j of Appointment.
Washington, D. C., Dec. 7. Efficient
military organization of the nation de
mands abandonment of the present sys
tem of selecting candidates for admis
sion to the military academy, Secretary
Baker declares in his annual report,
made public to-day. Instead of having
the president tutd members of Congresa
designate students to take the entrance
examinations, the secretary urges that
preparatory school be established by
the government and graduates of these
institutions who show the greatest fit
ness be further trained at West Point or
Annapolis.
"It seems likely," Mr. Baker says,
"that schools of this sort would spread
the field of selection ideally over the
country and make the cadets at West
Point and midshipmen at Annapolis bod
ies of young men selected by a demon
stration of their special aptitude for the
pursuit of military service."
Amplifying his suggestion, he adds:
"The method of selection of cadets for
West Point has for years consisted of
designation by the president, senators
and representatives, with examination as
a prerequisite to acceptance; but we are
learning daily lhat a nation efficiently
organized from a military point of view
must of necessity be efficienly organized
; IiuiUiii imiiv. e hip ii'miiiiiiu wijmi i ii v
industrially. We are learning also that
country is one which is readily expanded
in an emergency so as to include great,
numbers of men in the industrial and
commercial life of the nation who have
had enough preliminary training to make
them convertible bv brief additional
training into officers. Should the United
States ever be called upon to meet a
great military emergency a large army
would have to be sustained and support
ed by a high co-ordinated industrial sys
tem. There should therefore be in the
country at all times a great body of men
trained as mechanics, whose places in
such an emergency would be not in the
ranks of the fighting forces but at the
lathes and forges from which the ammu
nition supply of the army must be
drawn.
"I venture to believe that if the fed
eral government were to establish in a
number of places throughout the country
schools preparatory to the military acad
emy at West Toint and the naval acad
emy at Annapolis, in which the rudi
ments of a sound education, the elements
of mechanical skill, the principles of
business co-ordination and the beginnings
of military science were taught, these
schools would develop the natural apti
tudes of the students in such a way as
to supply those fittest by temperament
and tale'nt to pursue in the military
academy and the naval academy the
study of military science; and inciden
tally these .schools would furnish a great
body of men returning to emi me nttea
by training either to respond in an emer
gency to a call to the colors or to take
their places as civil soldiers in the service
of the government in those industries
and undertakings fundamental to the
successful conduct of military operations
"The suggestion here made ought not
perhaps to be further elaborated in mis
report, but I think it will be apparent
on reflection that no expenditure in con
templation of a great military emergen
cy would be more apt or helpful than one
which gave to 25.000 or 30.000 young men
the inspiration of industrial education
at the hands of the government, indoc
trinated them with the spirit of service
to their country, and tabulated them so
that they would be always available for
either the military or industrial service
which their academic experience, indicat
ed most in accordance with their apti
tudes." SUNDERLAND COFFIN.
Barre Girl the Bride of Montpelier Man
at Quirt Wedding.
A very pretty wedding occurred Tues
day evening at 8 o'clock at the home of
Mr. and Mrs. A. B. Coffin, when their
daughter, Avis, was united in marriage
with Charles Sunderland, son of Mr. and
Mrs. W. E. Sunderland of Montpelier,
Rev. B. G. Lipsky, pastor of the Meth
odist church, performing the ceremony
and using the double ring service. The
bride and groom were unattended. Only
the immediate families were present at
the wedding. At the present time Mr.
and Mrs. Sunderland are residing at the
home of the groom's parents in Montpe-lia-r,
where Mr. Sunderland's work as an
electrician calls him just now, but later
they expect to mnke their home in Barre.
The hrlde has always nveu in mi mi
and has a large circle of friends wtio
wish for Mr. and Mrs. Sunderland the
best of fortune. The many gifts of sil
ver, linen, etc., showed the esteem in
which they are held.
TALK OF THE TOIVX
Mrs. Nathaniel Bond of South Main
street has been passing a few days with
friends in South Ryegate.
Clan Gordon, No. 12. O. S. C. held its
annual meeting in the Bolster block last
evening, when a large number of the
'clansmen gathered to listen to the re
ports of the officers and take a hand
in important business matters. Yearly
statements completed and approved by
the auditor indicated that the clan is
emerging from one of its mot success-
fu years, with a membership that will
not have to expand greatly in order to
exceed that of the clan now possessing
the largest enrollment in the I nited
States. With a membership well above
675, Clan Gordon, nevertheless, continues
to grow. Wiliam Black was elected
chief to succeed William Hurry, now past
chief, and the remaining officers are as j
follows: Tanist. Charles Barr: chap-1
tt-:n:.. llk...l.l . i...
Edward; financial secretary. Robc"rt Gor-jto go with him to the pasture, where
don; treasurer, Donald Leith; phv.ki.n ! h'T h ' '? sherry
for Barre Citv. Dr. W. D. Reid; phVsi, i.n I M c aim Mundell was to have the an.
f.ri i.-viil. A,.tri TV. v F ma!s for $1.) it he could catch them.
senior henchman, Donald McLeod; ju-
nior henchman, George Cowie; aeneschsl,
James McLeod; warder, Peter Thom;
sentinel, Wallace Cook; tmstr for three
years, Alfred Milne; standard bearer.
.Mm S. McDonald and Barry Henry:
finance committee. Barry Henry, IVn
aid McLeod: ami William Stephen; j ij r,
Isaac RiddclL
DR, WHITHER
PASAWAY
Well-KVn Physician Died
To-day After Long
Illness
HE HAD PRACTICED
IN BARRE 21 YEARS
Was Member of State Board
of Medical Regis
tration Dr. E. B. Whitaker, a member of the
Vermont board of medical registration
and deputy grand commander of tho
grand commandery of Vermont, Knights
Templar, passed away at his home, l
Merchant street, this forenoon at 10:20
o'clock, the end following an illness of a
year. With him in the hour of death
were his son, Henry C. Whitaker, his
daughter-in-law, Mrs. H. C. Whitaker,
and his four grandchildren, the fifth be
ing in Oak Park, 111. Dr. Whitaker's de
mise removes one of the most prominent
physicians in the state and a figure well
known in Vermont Masonry for many
years. Barre loses a professional man of
the older generation and one who was
held in high regard by its citizenry.
The funeral will be held in the Univer-
salist church Sunday afternoon at 2:30
j o'clock. Rev. J. B. Reardon, the pastor,
will officiate, and there will be Masonic
services. The interment will be made in
the family lot in the cemetery at Hines
burg Monday afternoon at I o'clock.
Dr. Elroy Bidwell Whitaker waa born
in Bethel Dec. 20, 1845, a descendant of
one of the oldest New England families,
a family which came from England be
fore the middle of the 17th century. At
the age of two years his parents moved
to Pittsford and his boyhood was passed
in that village, where his father was a
manufacturer of carriages and wagons.
After finishing his education in the pub
lic schools, he received a few years of
college instruction under a private tutor.
He took one year at the Homeopathic
college in Cleveland, O., and then went to
the New York Medical college,1 where he
was graduated in l.SfiH.
He settled in Hinesburg and built up
an extensive practice throughout Chit
tenden and Addison counties. He re
mained there until 1802, when he moved
to Richmond; and in 189.. he came to
Barre and had resided here since then.
He was one of the most wJdely known
and successful medical practitioners in
the state. He served as president of the
Vermont Homeopathic Medical society
and for many years had been a member
of its executive board.
When Vermont first adopted the law
instituting the state board of medical
registration. Dr. Whitaker was one of
the first to be appointed by the governor
and he remained a member of the board
until his death, having been its treasur
er for several years. The medical regis
tration board is a unit before which
every physician must pass a satisfactory
examination in order to receive a license
to practice medicine in the state.
In Masonic circles especially, he was
one of the best known and highly re
spected men in Vermont. He became a
member of Otter Creek lodge in Pittsford
very soon after he reached the age of 21.
He therefore lacked only a few months
of being "50 years a Mason." From Ot
ter Creek lodge he took a demit and be
came a member of Patriot lodge in
Hinesburg in ISfif) and served for eight
consecutive years as its worshipful mas
ter. He also served four years as D. D.
G. M. of the fifth Masonic district. He
always retained his membership in Pa
triot lodge. In addition he was a mem
ber of Granite chapter, No. 2ti. of Barre,
Montpelier council, R. A. and S. M., and
St. Aldemar commandery, K. T., of
Rarre, of which he was past eminent
commander. He was also deputy grand
commander, next to the highest office in
the state commandery.
He was present grand chancellor of
Vermont Council of Deliberation, Scot
tish Rites, having been elected at Bur-
intrton last June; also past vice potent
of the lodge of Perfection, Gamaliel
Washburn of Montpelier, 14 degrees.
and vice sovereign of Mount Calvary
rrinces of Jerusalem. 16 degrees; noblo
of Mount Sinai temple, A. A. O. X. S. M..
and served as illustrious potentate of
that bodv three years ago. He was a
32d degree Mason.
He' was married in 1872 to Jennie N.
Patrick of Hinesburg. Mrs. Whitaker's
death occurred 13 years ago. Their only
child is Henry C. Whitaker, born in 1874,
and at present publisher of the Monu
mental News and Park A. Cemetery, In
Chicago. The latter, with his wife and
family, has been in attendance upon Dr.
Whitaker since last summer, when his
disease was diagnosed as a serious mal
adv. Dr. Whitaker's grandchildren are
Elroy, Lucv, Dorothv, Mary and Henry
t - jr.
THREE HEIFERS SHOT.
M. J. Sherry of Brattleboro Brings Suits
Against Five Men.
Brattleboro, Dec. 7. Because threw
heifers were shot on his farm recent
ly and the carcasses carried away, M. J.
Sherrv brought suit for $2iK) damages
yesterday against Bert Mundell, Ray
mond Angier. George Grover, Joseph
Wbalen and Charles Lee.
Mundell elaims that Sherry was nuable
to catch the heifer because of their
ildnes and that Sherry offered to sell
them for $15. Mundell says he accepted
the
offer and a-ked the other defendants
Doane is Tufts Captain.
Medford. Mass.. Dec. 7. Erling F
Iloane of SomervUle last night was unan-imou-ly
elect captain of the Tufts
college football team for the season of
l'.'lT. He played fullback thia year. Th"
team will lose only tw varsity players
by graduation.
