FARM LOANS LOW
BATES, EASY TEEMS
Baker Brothers
AGENCY
FARM, GRAIN AND
HAIL INSURANCE
Baker Brothers
AGENCY
Official Newspaper of the United State Land Office and of the People of Curry County
CLOVIS. NEW MEXICO. HiSOE VtBBK 7. 1916
$1.60 PER YEAS
VOL 10 NO. 25
EIKS HOLD UN
One of the most fitting memorial ser
vice ever held by the local hslgc of
Elks was conducted ut the Lyceum
Theatre luHt Sunday afternoon. The
ttomluiice was not what It usually Ih
on account of the extremely bad wea
ther. During the pant year the hslgo
baa lout by death two of Km emmliers,
Mr. C. !'. .Mitchell ami Mr. John J.
Costcllo, nml It was III memory of
these two deceased nictultera that the
niomorlal services of last Sunday were
held. Following; i the program that
wan carried out :
Fifth Nocturne, Lcybaeh, ..Miss Haker
riano Murcli Miss Haker
Ceremonies from the lilt mil
Opening - Exulted Uuler W. II, Duo
worth. Hull call of Hrothers Dcceused.
Invocation llev. J. T. Rodinun.
Song Elks Quartette.
Services--otllivrs of the Uslge.
Vocal Solo "Far from my Heaven
ly Homo." -Mia Welch.
Eulogy -L. (. Kullen of Roswell.
Vocal Sob "Forgot All Thy Sorrow."
MisH t'oiinolly.
Song "Auhl I.hiik Syne." Audience.
losliiv Ceremony Exalted Hitler.
l diction - Hcv. Ia-Hlngcr.
Jim. I). I'ritclniril. A. .Mandell and
Lola nil Chapman were the committee
on arrangement Hint liad charge of
the detail of the service.
MRKIEI IN AMARILLO.
Mr. Oesnr M. WimhI
Miss Mite l.ltchllelil
Married Dfccmlar Kotirlh,
Mtietecn Iliindrcd Sixteen.
Amarillo, Texas.
At home .Lummy 1st,
Ttieniiioati, X. M.
This is the utimiiim-cmciit that the
friends have received here tills week.
The Broom Is sst olllci' lnsM-ctor for
this district and he has loii visiting
Clovls for the past several year. The
bride for the past four years has Ihhmi
the efficient ami pnptti..r deputy in tlte
county clerk's otllce in Clovls and has
a host of friends here.
The young jicople as stated above
in the announcement will make tlielr
home in Tiicitmciirl and their Clovls
friends wish them all the happiness
possible.
CLOVIS BOOSTERS
ALWAYS ON TIE JOB
Al I lie (iziiik trail booster meeting
at Canyon last week. Clovls demon
strated to oilier towns that she Is going
to he right on the Jnh. tirst, hist and
all the time until the trail is landed
for this section. The Ladles I'and al
ways convinces the public that thin Is
a live wire town and this coupled with
the Sceehex by the Clovls Hoosters Is
aid to have convinced Hip oilier towns
along the route that the Magic City
will he working in the vanguard at all
times during the fight to land the trail.
Clovls was not the only town, how
ever that was on the Job at the Canyon
meeting. The other places along the
route bail their full (plot a of booster
and if the southern route Is not chos
en II will not lie Ix-oanse the proper
effort has not Ihimi put forth.
The designation of the route will
he made at Amarillo in June. Tnctim
cari and points north of us will make
an endeavor to have the route come
by there.
GREGORY LIKELY TO
QUIT THE CABINET
New York, Dec. 2. - Reports from
Texas that (jilted State Attorney
General Gregory plans to resign in
the near future met with no denial
from members of President Wilson's
administration In Washington this
week hut It was reiterated that the
president was anxious to have Mr.
Gregory as well as the other members
of the cabinet remain in ofllcc. It was
said that nothing was known of Mr.
Gregory's intentions.
John W. Davis, solicitor general, Is
looked iilHUi as the most likc-ly suc
cessor to Mr. Gregory if he doea re
sign. In this event la wns said tlint Mr.
Gregory, who on a previous occasion
was offered a seat on the I'll I ted
Stales supreme court, will lie very se
riously considered by President Wil
son If another vacancy occurs on that
bench.
WANTED To rent a furnished room
with bath olosc in. Apply at NEWS
OFFICE.
MARRIED IN CALIFORNIA.
Friends have received word here of
the marriage of Mr. W. W. White and
Mrs. Charlotte A. Stono which oc
curred at Lon Angeles, California, on
the Oth of this months The bride's
home Is at Bellingtoii, Washington, and
the marriage Is the culmination of uu
acquaintance that has existed for a
luiinls-r of years. Mr. White la well
and f ivorably known In Clovls lie is
one of the old settlers of this county,
having been here since Clovls Unit
Is-came a town, and the News Joins
his many friends In wishing for the
newly married couple much happiness.
L
IN FULL BLAST
Elks carnival In full blast 21 pt head
The Elks Carnival Is on In full blast
this week. It started Thursday night
and will lie continued until Saturday
night. The llrst night the weather was
very bad and naturally the crowd at
tending was not exceptionally large
but more than likely the auditorium
will lie tilled to overflowing on Friday
and Saturday nights. The merchants'
booths arc exceptionally well decora
ted this year and do credit to those
who had this in charge. Xo admission
is charged to enter the anirttorlum.
TEXAS COUNTY
Canyon, Texas. Doc. I. -At a meet
ing of the Itainliill County good roads
committee hero last night, It was de
cided to ask the Itandall County Com
missioners to call an election for bond
issues to be made for The building of
a good highway through this county.
The plan Is to Imlld a road up to
the standard set for the Or.n rk Trail,
from Amnrllio through Canyon to the
Dee' Smith County line.
It is calculated that these two roads
will cost not less than $100,000. The
petition is being circulated preparatory
to having the cuiuuilssioncrs submit
the question to the voters. Two engi
neers. S. It. Miller of Amarillo and W.
1. llureii arc making estimates of the
amount that will ls needed tn bring
tile two roads up to the standard. J. L.
l'oa, the Ozark Trail representative
from Amarillo was present at the
meeting last night.
COl'NTY CHANGES WANTED.
Santa Fe, Dec. 3. Two county
changes are already promised for the
I coming session of the legislature in
aiiiiiiion 10 i no perennial Giinuaiupo
county-Fort Sumner, the Eddy coun-ty-Arteshi,
and the (irant County
lordshurg new county scheme. One
Is for the division of Lincoln county
so as to make Lincoln a county sent
again ami the other is an attempt by
Taos county to annex that portion of
Itlo Arriba county east of the Kio
Grande.
ANNOUNCEMENT.
revival meeting Is being held at
the Church of God Chapel, 210 W.
Grand, opposite the Star Meat Market
All bible subjects will la considered.
Free literature offered after each ser
vice on all subjects. Services every
evening 7 :.'10 p. in., and Sunday 11 a.
m. Ministers; Clarence Means and
Mrs. Julia Meyers, assisted by G. E.
Harmon, pastor. A cordial invitation
is extended to all.
EXPRESSION OF THANKS.
As we desire to tlinnk the many
friends and comrades at Columbus of
our late son and brother, Everett C.
Pllzhtigh of Company K, New Mexico
National Guards who died there Dcm-iii-ler
4th, we take (Ids mean of ex
pressing our hear I felt gratitude for
their many expression of love and at
tention during hi last Illness.
We also desire to thank his and our
many friends in Clovls for their ex
pressions of love and sympathy In this,
our great bereavement.
J. S. Fllzhiigh and Family.
We are from Missouri tun. We would
like to show you. Hlee Furniture Co.
Phone Ml.
Mrs. Fred Dennis Is assisting the
Denhoff Jewelry Co., during the ex
tra holiday business.
NOTICE
I want to thank my many friends
for the appreciation they showed me
hi my sale. I think I had the best sale
ever held In Curry county and will say
to anyone in need of an auctioneer that
V. Tate can't be lat.
It W. It. ITAHDY.
POULTRY SHOW NEXT WEEK
The coming event for Clovis is the J'oultryShow
which will be held here Thursday, Friday and Satur
day of next week. The first three days of the show
will he held at Portales and the birds brought from
Portales to Clovis in time for the show to open here
Thursday at noon. No admission will be charged
to the show which will be held at the Elks Auditori
um. Those in charge of the exhibition are except ion
ally well pleased at the number of entries that are
being made and everything points now that the show
will be a great success. He sure to attend and see
what the poultry raisers of New Mexico and else
where are doing.
BUSINESS SECTION
BEINC SPRINKLED NOW
Clovis streets are again ladng sprink
led. This week a petition was circula
ted among the business men and money
raised that will provide for the dally
sprinkling of Main street In the busi
ness section and the side streets for
a Mock each way leading into Main
street.
This will help wonderfully toward
keeping down i he dust on the windy
days, a good many of which we can
naturally cect during Hie winter and
spring inonlhs.
Those wlio ciivualtcd the list among
the business men to raise the money to
finance the sprinkling movement say
practically everyone responded lllier
ally to the request for funds.
DcllACA IMPROVING
Reports have come from California
that the condition of Governor-elect
Dellacca has tat-n greatly Improved
liy Ills slat' more. Governor DeliacM U
suffering from pernicious anemia and
recently went to Los Angeles in search
of special medical aid and with advice
that he should scnd some time In a
lower aliunde before taking up the
duties of governor in January.
With Our
Heing a Few Hems of Interest
Paying Crop of KalJlr. The Texleo
Farwcll .News prints the following to
show what can Ik- done on plains
land: "W. N. Porter reside two and
one-half miles south-west of Texleo
Farwcll. Two years ago he bought 100
acres there for $1.1110. On the first of
September this year lie purchased an
adjoining ltHl acres at $12 per "ere.
Tills bad on it SO acres in kntllr com.
valued at that date at $100. The rains
came, ami the kit 111 r matured and hist
week Mr. Porter marketed his hist
load of this crop in Texlco-Farwell ut
$27.00 per ton. lie f sited up his sales
from this SO acres ami it netted him
$1K imt acre for the SO acres. Thus
his SO acres paid for 120 acres at $12
per acre with the yield of one crop."
leased Melrose Paper. The owners
of the Texlco-Farwell News, together
with Ray James have leased the Mel
rose Dairyman-Farmer from R. It.
Iloyle. Mr James will he hs-al editor
of the paper
3,04)0,000 Pounds of Beans.- Three
million pounds of Prijolcs! That is the
record according to our account of the
amount of 1 icans shipped from Moutit
i inn ir this season. Then1 have la-en
seventy-live cars of 40,000 pounds each
representing a cash value to our peo
ple of practically $200,000. Mountain
tir Independent.
$15.00 Per Acre. J. G. Mober our
local broom corn buyer bought the crop
of J. W. Rohinxon of the Itancbo com
munity, which brought Mr. Robinson
$.'i mt acre, lie only bad in 10 acres
and made o'-j tons. The farmers have
made sonic good money this season on
hrooiti coin. KriHUii corn Is esMcially
suited in many ways to litis section of
the Southwest and supplies the urg
ent need of settlers In this region for
a dependable cash crop for their new
laud. An added advantage possessed by
Hie Southwest for the production of
broom corn is that the usually dry,
sunny weather of this season during
and following harvest Is favorable fur
curing the brush so that It retains Its
niu-ical green color. While the broom-corii-growlitg-lndtistry
Is largely cen
tered In the Southwest, It is still car
ried on to a greater or less extent In
IT
CLOVIS NEXT SUMMER
Clovis will have a Chautauqua next
summer. A contract was closed last
week "with the Itidpatli-IIoriier Com
pany to furnish a week of entertain
ment here. There will la1 fourteen on
terhiiliinenls nml the iiiiiiiIhts will be
made up of some of the lKst talent in
the entire country. The Chautauqua
Company furnishes n tent for the mt
formaiict and fifty or more of the
business men of Clovis nave guaranteed
the linaisclal part of the program. The
exact dale lias not Ih'cii set hut it i
likely thai about the llrst week in
June will lie decided upon for the en
lertnllinients here. Season ticket will
be sold at such a nominal price that
the nimiiicr can lie seen with a very
small pi lii' of admission.
CM)VIS WOMAN'S CLl'lt.
The Clovls Woman's Club met Dec.
Aut Wnjr IWrm. Mnrii. HnH c!'. was
answered by current events. Round
table. "Gifts ami Giving." The next
mis'! lag will Ik held on Itcccmhcr II)
at the home of Mrs. Fred James.
Job printing at the News (illice.
Neighbors
Gathered From Our Exchanges.
tht? Central states. Alxiut two-thirds of
'the broom corn crop of this country Is
jtlie dwarf variety, the I'. S. Ittilletin
shoH. The lils'r of this is usually
I much liner than that of the standard
broom corn and Its methods of growing
facilitates harvesting. The I'. S. De
partnicii of agriculture has recently dc
veloH'd a third variety, tlte Acme,
which combines the heighth and other
growing qualities with the size of
brush of the standard. This variety Is
not yet grown commercially. Melrose
Dairyiiiaii-Farmer.
Improving' Home, Dr. and Mrs.
Lynch are adding more Improvements
to their already cozy home. They have
hud a Hue cistern dug and cemented
ready for the winter rains and snow
and are also having a back porch
hull! to their bouse, these together
with other improvement make this
one of the nicest homes in the city.
Mel rose Da iry ma n- Fa rmer.
More Light. The work of putting in
the electric light plant at Texlco-Farwell
lias itlHitit Ihs'U completed and the
twin cities will si sin be lighted by elec
tricity. Fort Simmer After Trail,- Vt W.
Jones, the state road builder was in
Fort Sunnier Friday, lie says there is
no lie iter piece of road in the state than
I tint between this place and Vaughn.
Mr. Jones advise our innple to get
busy in regard to the Ozark trail. It
will run from St. Louis to Spriitglield
I hence to Oklahoma City and Ainarlllo
when" It will connect Willi the Alio
highway whic'.t is the logical route hut
cITorts will he made to divert it on
another course. A meeting of the Fort
Sumner Commercial Clubvill be call
ed at an early date to take the mat
ter tip. Fort Sumner Review.
Working on Court House. The con
crete and slcel for the second story of
Partner County's new court nouse Is
lieing placed this week. When finished
tills will be one of the most handsome
and imposing structures In the Pan
handle and one of which Farwell and
surrounding country will be proud.
Farwell Tribune.
EARLY MAILING NECESSARY.
On and after December loth, we
will have extra clerks to handle your
Christmas mailings, and parcels may
hear the request. "Do not o-n until
Christmas" or a similar request. As
Christmas come on Monday this year
we would suggest that y-iu iniil your
parcels a early a possible, as all of
fices will Ih closed on Sunday the 2-1,
cud Monday the 2ii. lt.ice the necessity
of making your mailings so as to reach
their destination not later than Decent
lier 2.'l.
Ily doing so we can give you lictter
service now than a day or two la-fore
Christmas, and we want to give you
the best service possible and you can
help by following the nlaive sugges
tions. lie sure to address your fin reels plain
ly and wrap securely, with senders re
turn in the upH-r left-baud corner be
fore presenting for mailing, also kind
ly slate upon presentation of parcels
whether you wish them Insured or not,
staling actual value, as rtte Insurance
fee Is determined by the value.
A. It. WAGNER.
Postmaster
IIEIIINI) ON INSTALLATIONS.
The brick work on the building over
the new city well was commenced this
week. Mr. Chalfant, siim Intendent of
the water ami light plant, says that the
new well will lie put in operation when
the building is completed, almut the
llrst of the year. Mr. Chalfant says
that Hie number of water mid light pa
trons Is constantly increasing and that
now he has nearly as many light cus
tomers us Hie plant can furnish the
"juice" for. During Die past few month
he says that the cll.v lias been con
stantly liehind on Installing lights. This
is aiioi her Indication that the town
is growing. Come to Clovis.
.MISSIONARY TO SOI Til AMERICA.
Hcv. E. II. Wili'ox has resigned the
pastorate of I he Advent 1st Church at
this place nml will soon leave for Peru
in South America, where he will Im u
missionary for his church. He and his
wife expect to leave for there nltout
the 24th of December. Ills work will
take him into liollvln. Pern and Eq
itador and he will Is? stationed at
Lima.
HART ROI5INSON
The News ha recently learned
of a quiet wedding on Saturday. No-
vemlier 25. Miss Elminn D. Robinson,
I sister of It. O. Robinson, nnd well
! known school teacher of west Texas,
I was the bride. The wedding took place
at tlte Robinson Studio, Rev. C. W.
LiimlH'rt iK'rformlng the ceremony In an
Impressive way. The grisim is Mr. T. W.
Hart postmaster at Hart, Texas, and
owner of the Valley View ranch.
FEDERAL JUD6E WILL
BE
That a successor to the late William
II. Pols' as judge of the Culled States
district court for the district of New
Mexico will bo named within the next
few weeks, possibly liefore Christ
mas holidays. Is the general liollcf of
those who have kept Informed regard
ing the apiMiiiilnietit. Who the ap
pointee will Ih Is a mutter Hint can
not lie foretold at this time.
Several months have elapsed since
the death of Judge Pope, and the
business of the court has Iki-ii accum
ulating rapidly. Judge J. C. Polhs'k of
VoH'ka presided at tlte recent term of
court in Santa Fe and dispatched the
most pressing business before the
court, lint the need of a Judge to take
permanent charge of the affair of the
court and clear up the docket Is ur
gent and for that reason the Isdlef pre
vails that President Wilson will send
to the Senate the name of Judge
Poh-'s successor shortly after the con
vening of congress so that confirma
tion may Ih- had at the short session
of Hint lasly which expires March -Itlt
next.
The applicant who has the Indorse
ment of Senator-elect A. A. Joints and
Democratic State Chairman Arthur
Seligninii, It I believed I practically
assured of appointment, ami It Is con
sidered more than a probability that
those two leaders will get together on
lie saino man in order to preserve
party unity and harmony. Neither Mr.
Sellgnuin nor Senator Jones has given
any intimation as to who will Is? In
dorsed. Wo are making appointments for sit
tings nearly every hour of the day.
our time will nil soon Ik1 taken. Make
your appointment now. Robinson, the
Phot oif ra jihcr.
We buy, sell or exchange anything
in iho household line, Rice Furniture
Co. Phone SO.
CHRISTMAS PRESENT
FOR SANTA FE MEN
Mr. E. P. Ripley, President of the
AtctiWou Topeka ami Santa Fe Railway
Company, gave nut the following state
ment in New York Tuesday afternooa,
DcceinlH-r oth; "In the Inst two years,
cshs-IiiII.v since the influence of the
EiiroH-nu war has Ist-n felt, our Rail
way System lias enjoyed what apcars
to lie abnormal prosperity. The sums
factors which have prtMluecd this proa
IHTity have also made sithstallal In
creases in the cost of living, which it
is ltoMd will le temporary. In recog
nition of these conditions, our Hoard
or Dim-tors today authorized us t
make in a lump, the distribution of
additional coinH-nsatlou equal to tea
mt cent of a year's pay to all employe
who have boon In the service of the
Atchison. Tockn and Santa Fe System
for at least two years and whose an
nual comiM-iisation Is not paid accord
ing to present former contract sched
ule. The payments of the amounts thus
authorized will be made as soon as
Hie procr compiling can he completed.
It Is estimated that the amount thus
to Is- distributed will ls approximately
two million, seven hundred ami fifty
thousand dollars." It Is President Rip
ley's Intention to have the itistrihtitioa
made during the holidays.
CLOVIS SOLDIER BOY
KILLED ON THE BORDER
Evereit I 'll .Illicit, a member of Co.K.,
New Mexico National Guards, diet!
Sunday night at Columbus as a result
of a fall from one of Hie Idg army wa
gons oHriited by the government there,
lie had been in the hospital for several
days on account of Illness and accord
ing to the regulations was entitled t
five more days off duty but ho felt
that lie was well enough to again take
up his part of the routine of camp
life and reported for duly. On last
Friday, shortly after he bad rcjtorted
f -r duty, he ami other soldier were
detailed to distribute blankets to the
guards on the out posts. They were
driving some mule teams to the big
army wagons when the team Is-cama
frightened and in running the-wagon
over rough ground ami making a quick
turn, young Filzliugh was thrown un
der the wheels and the. heavy wagua
passed oer his IjihI.v. lie was badly
bruised internally and underwent aa
operation shortly afterward at the ar
my hospital. Everything possible waa
done to save the life of this noble
young man, or rather lioy, who waa
facing the hardships of border life hi
the service of his country. Following
the os"-rallon It was necessary to In
fuse new hloi! into his veins with the
hope that bis life might be saved. Se
well was this young man loved by his
comrades that a half a dozen volun
teered to furnish blood from their owa
IhmIIcs to bo Infused into his vebis.
Two were chosen but this last resort
failed to save his life. Judge J. S. Flta
hiigh, of this place, father to the young
man, was summoned to Columbus and
reached there shortly liefore bis death.
On Monday before the remains wcra
shipped to Clovls, a military funeral
was conducted by the Chaplain or the
regiment, the solemn music for the oc
casion iH'Ing furnished by the regiment
al laind.
The remains arrived in Clovis Wed
nesday and the funeral service was
conducted by Dr. Mmire at the Pres
byterian Church, ttftcr which the Naif
was In Itl to rest in the Clovls cemetery.
Ih'fore he volunteered for service la
the New Mexico National Guard, young
Fltzhtigh was an apprentice lu the
Santa Fe shops and tlte pall bearers
at the funeral were mado up of tha
young men who were associated wlta
him in his work there.
The casket was lined with beautiful
floral offerings from the school, tha
Presbyterian Church, the working as-siM-iate
of the young mail at the shops
nml the boys of Company K.
His is the first ilea t h that has in
curred among the volunteers from tha
state of New Mexico, ami It Is doubt
ful if th'-re are many In the entira
number who tire younger than he was,
as his age wa only is. He tiled In the
service of his country a mero boy, but
lii manly heart was filled with pa
triotism for hi country.
The heartbroken father and other
relatives have the sympathy of a host
of friends.
CARD OF THANKS.
We desire to thiink our dear friends
for their kindness and sympathy dur
in., illness and at the funeral of
our dear little Mnrjorle. May God'e
blessings rest upon each of you.
Mr. and Mrs. Wm. Hoidenuausen.
'
I -
