* :y ^-x?m
WEATHER. ^ 1^ /^V KmJlf"From Pres* to Home
Pair weather and mild temperature to- . a ^^B W B a r ^^a> ^a . ^a a. a a W
night tomorrow: moderate south- #/ B/^L, MIMBA B 1 /A f ...... . .1 If >1
west and west winds. J |ik B^B fv 3 Bf W1 | ^ B B V I R H I " )/l\ / Within the HOUT
Temperature for twenty-four H. H B B Bar ^^B B B B B/T B B B B B B B B at B B JuWML ????????
ending 2 p.m.: Highest. p.m. B i B B WW B fl Br 1 B B "
today; wwest. J7. at ?:ao a.m. today V B B. * B B^ B^ B .RM ^k^B. B. ^a Lrrr=rrz?nz^rrr^=rzrzi^m^nr^r^iFull
report on page I^Br .^Br B W^V
1 . f 1 I . J / lorn Set Ctsealatlea. Msatk et Sep tew her.
CLOSING SEW YORK STOCKS PAGE 18. N. MIS. Dally l;m?a,lUMi Ssaday. M*
No. 29,490." WASHINGTON, P. C., THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 2, 1916.?TWENTY-TWO PAGES. ONE CENT.
?????? ??__ 1 I
GERMANS GIVE UP
F. VAUX AT VERDUN
UNDERHEAVY FIRE
Crown Prince Evacuates Important
Position After Blowing
Up Sections.
FRENCH SCORE GAINS
IN SOMME REGIONS
Capture Strong Trenches Near Lesboeufs
and to Southeast
of Saillisel.
By the Associated Press,
j LONDON, November 2.?Fort Vaux, one
of the most important ioruncations captured
by the German crown prince in his
prolonged drive at Verdun, has been
evacuated by the Germans. The evacuation
is announced by Berlin today.
Shortly before Fort Douaumont"" had
been retaken and a wide stretch of the
front In this region regained by the
French in their sudden offensive movement
on October 25. it was pointed out
that Fort Vaux likewise had been put
in a perilous position. The French advanced
close to the edge of the fortification
on its immediate front in their
great drive and, pushed well beyond it
on each side, making its fall, in the.
opinion of observers at the front, only a
1 question of a short time,
i
Blow Up Part of Fort.
[ ?The Germans evacuated Fort Vaux
during the night says their official re|
port, without hindrance by the French
and atter portions of the fort had been
blown upl The French continued to pour
1 a heavy fire from their big guns on the
fortification.
Virtually all the ground of pronounced
value taken by the Germans on tfhe
easterly bank of the Meuse in their
has now. with the fall of Fort Vaux.
been lost to them.
According to the latest information
from Paris the total of unwounded German
prisoners taken on the Verdun
front since October 24 has reached
6.911. of whom 138 were officers. The
material taken on the 24th alone includes
15 cannon. 144 machine guns. 2.
wireless outfits and a great quantity of
rifles, grenades, shells and other materials.
French Gain on Somme.
French tTM?i operetta* In th. Lss
Kenb and RanCourt sectors on the
Somme (rtfif also gained .round yesterday
la attacks on the German llhcs.
The Paris report of last night announcing
these advances ts in part confirmed
by the Berlin official statement today
which concedes French gains northeast
of Morval and on the edge of the
8t- Pierre. Vaast wood, but declares
that the main effort of the French to
move forward was sanguinarily repulsed.
Northeast of Les Boeufa the Prench
claim to have taken two more enemy
trenches, capturing 125 prisoners.
Another prench attack southeast of
Satllisel lpade them masters of a system
of strongly organised trenches in
the western outskirts of St. Pierre
Vaast wood. Fifty prisoners remained
in French hands after this action, according
to Paris.
The British, says Berlin, /ailed in an
attack north of Courcelette on the
Somme front London last night reported
gains in the Les BoeufB sector in
opel^tions in conjunction with the
French, but announced today that
beavy rain was falling, and that there
were no noteworthy happenings durinz
the night.
North of the Somme, notwithstanding
the persistent bad weather, the French
followed up during the night the advantages
gained between Lesboeufa
and Sailly-Saillisel. They consoldiated
the ground won, carried several points
of support and cleared out several machine
gun emplacements, according to
Paris.
During these operations the French
took 186 prisoners, including eight officers.
This brings up to 536 the number
of prisoners taken yesterday in this
sector.
Germans Have More Guns.
BERLIN. November 2.?The stiffening
of the German defensive on the
Somme, which is credited here with
stopping the allied-push on Bapaume
and Peronne, and limiting the advance
of the French and British to insignificant
trains, is due to the restoration
of tne equilibrium in the. matter of artillery
between the two armies.
Now that this has been achieved, it
may be stated that Germany in August
was confronted With difficulties in the
supply of munitions and the replacement
of worn-out or damaged guns,
which, it is declared, was largely responsible
for the successes then scored
by the allies. For the second time
during the war?the fcrst being during
the concluding phases of the 1914 campaign?
the German experts found that
'heir calculations were outrun by
facts and were faced by a consumption
of guns and shells far beyond what
was expected.
The formation of a department o
munition*, annuunteu y?ieruay, i? :ti
outward sign of their determinatior
not again to be caught napping, but tc
increase the production of munitions t<
the utmost possibilities.
Discusses Somme Situation.
The military critic of the Overseai
News Agency, discussing the recent en
tente offensive on the Somme front
says:
"The Somme battle has been resumec
with intensity during the last few days
but the Anglo-French forces obtaine*
nothing but the smallest local advan
tages near.Les Boeufs. ^leanwhile th<
Germans could record a great succesi
in the taking of I^a Maisonette and con
necting trenches at Biaches. The vie
rorious German infantry regiment. Nc
2rrt. took prisoner 412 men and 15 offt
cere.
"After sanguinary losses and suffer
Ing during the last attacks near Lei
Boeufs. the French on October 28 trte<
their lot by a big thrust agains
?haulnes. which is the extreme south
4fn point of the Homme front. The;
f* tended to crush this position, which i;
leaped like a wedge, in the same styl<
as the attacks on the road near Flem
east of Gueude<v??*~t, east of Lei
Boeufs. northeast Morval and nea
Hailly. This attack on the 2Sth, whicl
had been prepared fry copies shelling
was held down bjr tho German cur
tain of Art/*
icnmroRK
! AIRTSjPISHALTED
Aviator Victor Carlstrom Descends
at Erie, Pa., Because
of Engine Trouble.
i
SETS A NON-STOP RECORD
IV )
VICTOR CARLSTROM.
By the Associated Press.
ERIE, Pa., November 2.?Aviator
Victor Carlstrom began a flight from
Chicago to New York today. He landed
in this city at 11:26 a.m. because of engine
trouble, but established a new
American non-stop flight record. Erie
is Just half the distance Carlstrom set
out to cover.
The aviator was flying about seven
miles south of Erie when a pipe be-'
came loose on his engine and he made
for this cjkty so that he could obtain
the necessary mechanical assistance.
He landed easily in a large open field
at 30th and Peach streets, and. jumping
from the car, at once began repairs.
He said he was delighted with the
flight as far as he had gone, and, although
disappointed because of the
slight engine trouble, he deemed it advisable
to take no unnecessary chances,
as he was very anxious to get to New
York by 6 o'clock this evening.
The engine was doing all he had
expected of it in the way of speed, the
Obtains Jfore (HwUni. .
Staving completed repairs to the engins,
Carlstrom decided to replenish
his supply of/gasoline, and came down
into the city for that purpose. He
said he expected to leave Erie early
this afternoon, and that he would follow
the lake to Buffalo. From there,
he said, ne probably would follow the
track of the New York Central railroad
into New York.
Carlstrom left Chicago at 6:09 this
morning, announcing his intention to
have dinner in New York. The start
was made from the flying field of the
Aero Club of Illinois, and Carlstrom
immediately launched upon a route due
east following the right of way of the
Lake Shore and Michigan Southern
railroad.
The aviator expected to make the trip
without stop. He is carrying a sack of
mail made up of letters from city ofi
flcials of Chicago to officials at New
! York. Included are several communij
cations said to be destined for the
i Deutschland at New London, Conn.
! Carlstrom has a special appointment
| as aerial letter carrier. His trip is
being: made under the auspices of a
New York newspaper.
Carlstrom expected to pas over Gary
and South Bend. Ind., Sandusky, Toledo
and Cleveland, Ohio; Elmira, Bingham ;
ton and Port Jervis, N. Y. His machine
is a 200 horsepower biplane.
TOLEDO, Ohio, November 2.?Victor
Carlstrom flying from Chicago to New
York passed Maumee village, eight
miles south of Toledo at 8:22 a.m.
SOUTH BEND. Ind.. November 2.?
Victor Carlstrom in his biplane passed
south of Mishawaka at 7:02 this morning.
flying at a speed of from eighty
to ninety miles per hour. He lost his
course between Laporte and South Bend
arrd when he passed this vicinity he
was six miles pouth of the New York
Central railroad tracks, which he Intended
to follow.
Fog Obscures Cleveland's View.
CLEVELAND, Ohio. November 2.?
Aviator Victor Carlstrom flew over
Cleveland on his attempted ncn-stop
flight from Chicago to New York at
10:25 a rn., eastern time, today, but no
one saw htm here, although one man
says he heard his motor. A dense fog
over the lake obscured the view at "this
point. He was reported having passed
Geneva, forty miles east of here, at
10:52, and that was the first report re|
ceived of his having been actually
sighted after he went by Vermillion,
j forty miles west of this place, at 9:58.
: { Geneva is 400 miles from Chicago, and
his record to that point was three
i hours and forty-three minutes.
Carlstrom's flight is being conducted
under the auspices of the New York
f Times.
i First Chicago-New York Trial.
> The first attempt to fly from Chicago
to New York was made in 1910, when
Eugene B. Kly ana a numner 01 otners
competed for the 125,000 prize offered
b by the New York Times and the Chi
cago Evening Post, and for the $5,000
k prize offered by Clifford B. Harmon.
The fliei> experienced a great deal of
] trouble, due in most cases to the in,
ferior equipment of the day, and Kly
* was forced to give up the attempt after
i his fifty-horsepower Curtiss biplane
- broke down about thirty-two miles
e from the starting point.
* Previous Distance Records.
The world's record for non-stop flight
was made June 20-21 of this year,
when Sub-Lieut. Antoine Marchal of
the French air service flew more than
800 miles before forced by engine trouble
to alight. He ascended at Nancy,
in France, and after flying across Berlin,
on which he dropped proclamations,
, went on to Chelm, in Austrian Poland,
where he came down and was taken
prisoner.
Before this, In September, 1913, Ro.
land Garris established the world's record
for a combined flight over land and
water, when he flew from Frejus, near
Cannes.^ In France, to Blzerta. near
(Continued oq Seventh Page.)
i
> .
GERM/IN VERSION
OF MARINA SINKING
AWAITED BY U. Si
|
Survivors' Affidavits to Be
Used in Determining Whether
Pledges Were Broken.
NOTICE SENT TO GREECE
OF GREAT IMPORTANCE
Sinking of Allied Supply Ships
Without Warning Would Be Regarded
Contrary to Promises.
aiaie uepariment omciais still were
waiting today for Germany's version of
the destruction of the British steamer
Marina, with loss of American lives.
They also were expecting affidavits and
other data gathered from American
survivors on which to determine
whether Germany's pledges to the
United States had been broken.
A news dispatch from Athens last
night, saying the Greek government
had been notified Germany intended to
sink without warning all ships carrying
supplies to the allies was regarded
here as of great importance. So far
as is known the United States has received
no such notification, and it is
not known whether one has been sent
to other neutrals.
Contrary to Pledges.
Such a procedure would be regarded
by the United States as directly contrary
to Germany's pledges.
Secretary Lansing said today that the
United States understands Germany's
pledges not to sink merchantmen without
warning and without providing for
the safety of passengers and crew applies
to ships with defensive armament.
No distinction was drawn in the correspondence
between armed and unarmed
ships, and the State Department
does not accept any contention that
Germany's responsibility is limited to
those without armament.
Question Deemed Vital.
Nevertheless, it is admitted that Germany
has always taken a distinct view
of the status of armed ships, and it is
thought probable that she will attempt
to inject the point into the present situation.
So long as the policies of the
two governments art so utterly oiverg?nt,
|t is thought possible that Germany
might use the Marine ease to Settle
the issue. Her increased submarine
Increasing; efficiency in defense, makes
it a vital Question to her.
Secretary Lansing:, while refusing to
give out any further details of the official
report of the sinking from the
American embassy in London, said his
information was substantially the same
[ as that of the newspapers.
Notification to United States.
Germany and Austria, on February 10,
in substantially the same terms, notified
the United States to the following effect:
"Enemy merchantmen, armed with
guns, no longer have the right to be
considered as peaceable merchant vessels
of commerce. Therefore, the German
n&var forces will receive orders to
treat such vessels as belligerents."
However, in accepting the American
note on the Sussex, demanding the
abandonment of submarine warfare
against "passenger and freight carrying
vessels," .Germany said such vessels
should not be sunk without warning
and without providing for the safety
of passengers and crew, "unless the
ships attempt to escape or offer resistance."
No condition was made as to armed
ships.
Six Americans Lost
on Torpedoed Marina;
Doubt Is Cleared Up
LONDON", November 2.?A telegram
to the American embassy today from
,w eaicy r rwoi, American consul at
Queenstown, states that the discrepancies
in former reports regarding the
number of Americans on board the
British steamship Marina anil the
names of those lost have now been
cleared up.
In addition to the five Americans reported
yesterday as having been lost
the name of Buie, given in earlier advices
as Brue, is added to the list of
dead. The name of Middletown, first
reported lost, is now in the list of
American survivors. These changes
make the total number of Americans
on board fifty-two, of whom six were
lost.
American Is Missing
as Result of Sinking
of Steamship Cabotia
MONTREAL, November 2.?The American
who is among the missing members
of the crew of the Donaldson line steamship
Cabotia, sunk in European waters
October 23, was G. Carrie ty-^of Mauch
Chunk, I'a., according to a list of the
crew made public here today.
Advices received here indicate that
thirteen men are missing, twelve of them
Canadians, and that eight persons have
been saved, including one American, Joh
M', n.nic r./ I ! 1 XT
o-.j'? ---** vjv-.m vi uvncii, iuttas.
Lloyd's Shipping Agency, October 23,
reported that the Cabotia, of 4,309 tons
gross, Montreal to Glasgow, was believed
to have been sunk. The vessel
carried thirty-one men, including a number
of Canadian horsemen.
DEBTS OF SEVEN NATIONS,
SEVENTY-FIVE BILLIONS
NEW YORK, November 2.?Debts of
the seven largest nations In the war
are In excess of $75,000,000,000, compared
with $27,000,000,000 at the war's
beginning, according to statistics complied
by a New York bank and made
public last night.
The dally cost of the war Is estimated
to be $105,000,000, as compared with
$90,060,000 a day in April last. If the
war ends neat year the annual Interest
. os -the- debt, It . Is estimated, will be
$3,800,004,000 yearly.
.. . . I .
UNLOADING CARGO :
OF DjnuuiD
Merchandise and Securities
Brought Believed to Be
Worth $10,000,000.
TO GIVE DINNER FOR CREW
By the Associated Press.
NEW LONDON, Conn., November 2.?
Activities of a varied nature centered
about the German undersea merchantman
Deutschland and her captain, Paul
Koenig, today. While the crew busied
themselves behind the barriers which
hide the submarine from public view in
preparing to dispose of the 700 tons of
valuable cargo, which the Deutschland
brought from Bremen, customs officials!
and naval officers prepared for the in - i
quiry to determine the status of the |
craft. j
The Deutschland has been entered as
a commercial vessel, but, to make certain
that every neutrality provision has
been observed, an inspection by both
naval and customs officials was decided
upon at Washington. Commander
Yates tSirling. who is head of the naval
station here, arranged to go aboard
with his ards.' in conjunction with
James McGovern, collector of customs
of this district. The latter had conferred
last night with Secretary of the
Treasury McAdoo, who was at Hartford.
regarding the questions involved
in the Deutschland's reappearance.
New London's citizens made plans for
a public welcome to the Deutschland's
captain and her crew. President Alton |
T. Miner of the local chamber of com- j
merce, with Mayor E. E. Rogers and a i
delegation of business men, tendered !
Capt. Koenig an invitation to a dinner i
at a date to be set by him. It was said 1
that he had accented, although stating,
it was with reluctance.
Bags of Mail Brought Ashore. j
Bags of mail brought across the seas '
by the German undersea merchantman
Deutschland, which arrived yesterday,
were brought ashore today. During
the forenoon little work was done upon
me cargo. I
Shortly before noon Mayor E. E.
Rogers^ President M. T. Miner of the .
chamber of commerce and about fifty I
members constituting a committee J
waited upon Capt. Koenig. There was i
I a conference on the pier and the cap- J
j tain accepted an invitation to a dinner j
to be given by the chamber, the time j
j to be fixed later.
j The party was then divided into
groups of five and each went on the
j submarine and looked it over. Later
those favored with this chance of inspection
stated that what they saw
was mostly machinery.
Capt. T*. A. Scott of the Scott Wrecking
Company, sent a diver down alongside
of the Deutschland and he reported
that there were fourteen small holes in
-1 the anchor bulkhead. These were probably
made when the anchor dented the
shall of the craft. The holes had caused
| some leakage on the trip over.
I Probably Brought Many Securities.
j The announcement of the Deutsch- j
I manifest was awaited with some !
curiosity. Capt. Koenig, estimating the
cargo to total $10,000,000 in value, said
it consisted largely of drugs and dyestuffs,
but said there were possibly
securities and jewels among the con-'
signments. As the Deutschland on her
trip to Baltimore carried only $1,500,000
worth of freight, which bulked as large
as her present shipments, it was considered
probable that most of the
ten-million-dollar valuation was represented
by securities or stones.
Henry G. Hilken of Baltimore, president
of the Eastern Forwarding Company*
which is the agent for the submarine
freight service here, said today
ne was without exact information on
this subject.
With Dr. George Ahrens, an attache
of the German embassy, Mr. Hilken
went aboard the Deutschland this
j^ontinued on Fifteenth Page.)
f
MAILS OF U, S. DELAYED i
TO FAVOR BRITISH SHIPS!
!
Beasons for Placing Matter in
of American Officials
Are Revealed.
. r". i'ii' .
Post office officials explained today that
the decision to have American mails for
Panama and South and Central America,
by way of Panama, handled by American
postal officials Instead of the British
packet agent in the Canal Zone was the
result of an investigation which disclosed
that mails were being delayed in order
that they might be carried on British
ships and that Great Britain was handling
the mails by contract at a rate less than
the United Slates was paying her for
the service.
Post office inspectors who conducted
the investigation reported that there
were Instances where American mails
which might have been shipped on
American vessels were diverted to
British ships.
Pav Less for Service.
Under new contracts the United
States is paying less for the service,
and at the same time the companies,
in some cases, are receiving more for j
their services.
In the future every effort will be
made by United States postal authorities
in the Canal Zone to carry American
mails on American ships. They
have been instructed to give the mails
to American vessels, even if by so
doing the postal matter should be delayed
a day.
Since the inauguration of the Canal
Zone postal service all unclaimed firstclass
mail matter originating in the [
Canal Zone, has beea forwarded to the
division of 'lead letters here J
position. This has caused considerable !
delay in the return of unclaimed matter
to the senders. The greater portion i
of this unclaimed mail matter eoT><*ists j
of letters returned from the islands of ;
the West Indies, concerning which inquiry
is frequently made, and in order
to expedite the return of such letters
to the senders arrangements have been
made to handle these letters by the
Canal Zone postal service. Under the
new arrangement, all unclaimed mail ;
matter originating in the Canal Zone '
will be opened in the office of the j
director of posts and restored direct to
senders. I
VILLISTAS SHOOT GUARDS; !
LOOT PASSENGER TRAIN j
.
1
CHIHUAHUA CITY, Mexico. November
1, via K1 Paso Junction, November
2.?After shooting the twenty-nine
Carranza military guards of the southbound
passenger train which left Juarez
Monday, Villa bandits looted the train,
i robbed the passengers and even took
clothing from the woman passengers.
Dr. Haffner. a German passenger on
the train, who was mistaken by the
, bandits for an American, was struck
over the head with a gun by one of
the Villistas.
The bandits, who were in command of
Murga brothers and Silvestre Quevedo,
then abandoned the train, carrying the
loot away in mule-drawn wagons. j
m i
Robbers Get Away With $6,000.
BRAID W OOD. 111.. November 2.?
I Four robbers blew the safe in the pri!
vate bank of W. II. Odell & Co. here
| last night and escaped in an automoi
bile with $6,000. The men cut all wires
leading into the little village, jind had
made good their escape before aid
could be summoned.
Save Today's Paper
for the School
Children's Playground
Fund.
1? 'V
t-, - J
J
I
Bianshold 1
germansin check
Von Falkonhayn Keeps Up
Steady Pressure on Transylvania
Front.
EYES KEPT ON DORRUDIA
By the Associated Press.
LONDON, November 2.?There is no
apparent let-up in the pressure which
Gen. von Falkenhayn is exerting along
the Rumanian northwestern frontier, but
in general the Rumanians are reported
to be holding him fairly well in check.
No new advances of importance are announced
today by the German war office.
In the meantime, however, military
critics are. looking shortly for definite
news from the province of Dobrudja. on j
the southeast front, where "no change
in the situation" has been the usual
report from both sides for several days
past. Field Marshal von Mackensen is
believed tc be making preparations for
some new stroke in an effort to complete
his conquest of this Rumanian
province, while from Bucharest comes
unofficial announcement that Gen. Sakharoff,
one of the ablest of the Russian
generals, is expected in the Rumanian
capital to take command of the forces |
in uooruuja.
Pursuit of Germans Continues.
At Draeos'avMe ("northeast of Campulung)
the Rumanians made progress on
the left wing and captured '-thirty-six
prisoners. East of the river violent
fighting is proceeding. At the Jiul the J
pursuit of the Germans continues, ac- i
cording to Bucharest. The Rumanians |
have taken six officers and 606 soldiers '
prisoner and captured a great quantity !
of material.
Rumanian attacks against the Teutonic
troops which had advanced beyond
Altsehanz and Predeal passes
failed with losses to the enemy, Berlin
says today. The Germans claim
to have captured eight officers and 200
men. Southeast of Rothentliurn pass
engagements which arc favorable to
us continue.
British Take Three Villages.
In addition to the capture by the
British forces.on the Struma section of
the*Macedonian front of the village of
Barakli-Azuma, two oilier villages,
Prosenlk and Kumli, were occupied by
them.
Sofia admits that after lively artillery
fire the British advanced on nearly
the whole front, but says they were
stopped by the fire of Bulgarian infan'itry,
machine guns and artillery. No
mention is made of just how far the
British advance earned them.
The Serbians report slight successes
on the Cerna, but Sofia declared Serbian
advances in the Cerna bend and north
of the Nidze height were repulsed. On
the Struma front there were active
engagements in advanced positions.
DREXELS IN COURT AGAIN.
Mrs. Anthony J. Would Enjoin Husband
From Seekiner Her Monev
LONDON. November 2.?Mrs. Anthony
J. Drexel is seeking ail injunction
1n the British courts to prevent
her husband from serving her tvith
papers in an action In the French
courts to obtain money which the British
courts recently decided belonged to
the wife. The case whs mentioned yesterday
in chancery court, when Mrs.
Drexel's counsel said that Mr. Drexel,
after the court gave him four davs
in which to sign documents in order
that his wife might obtain the moneyawarded
her by the court, had left for
France, where he remains.
A separation agreement between the
Drexels was executed In 1913, and last
year Mrs. Drexel sued her husband to
recover money under the separation
deed. In June last a London court
awarded Mrs. Drexel a yearly allowance
of ?10,000.
OLD "WHIRLWIND
HNBTON DECK
Storm Center in New York
City During Closing Days
of Campaign.
TO UNLIMBER BIG GUNS
BY N. 0. MESSENGER.
NEW YORK. November 2.?Our old
bromldtc friend, the phrase, "whirlwind
finish," must be summoned forth
once more, because we all know him
and love him. and the occasion war- i
rants a welcome to him. Tt is a whirl-}
" ' ' " ' XT -V- 1, oo t*?A I
WIIIU 11I118II W1LII .1C\T I VI IV vnj ? ?
center of the lowest barometric pressure.
Let's call it a typhoon.
President Wilson, Candidate Hughes
and Col. Roosevelt are to speak here
between now and Saturday night.
Madison Square Garden, Cooper
Union Hall and other historic forums
of forensic frenzy will be occupied by
throngs while these respective distinguished
public characters expound
their views with the object of "putting
one over" on the?no, let's not use the
word proletariat, but voters.
Appeals to the Voters.
Meanwhile the dailv papers carry
whole-page advertisements put out by
the two campaign committees, setting
forth the virtues of one party and the
shortcomings of the otjier, crowning a
halo upon one candidate and deprecating
his opponent. The streets flare
immense banners carrying legends designed
to attract the impressionable,
if possibly unthinking, wielder of the
ballot.
Boss Murphy is to head the big Wilson
narade tonight, with his serious
face and silk hat, an evidence of good
faith of Tammany Hall to the national
administration that Mr. Murphy is popularly
presumed to regard so highly.
Tomorrow night Col. Roosevelt will
swarm out to set the town afire fbr
his dearly beloved Mr. Hughes.
If there has been a campaign within
the memory of this generation where
there was more buncombe, insincerity
and misrepresentation than this one,
I would like to have some one cite me
to it.
Indications are that public sentiment
is coagulating for Hughes in New
York, but there are three speeches to
be made by the three most prominent
figures in the campaign?President Wilson,
Candidate Hughes and Col. Roosevelt.
To repeat, the public mind appears
to be excited and emotional,
abandoning normal political considerations
and arguments.
May Decide the Election.
What is to be said by one of these
three eminent Americans in the next
few days may turn New York, and, in
this admittedly close election, turn the
nation.
However, there is no shadow of pessimism
at republican headquarters over
the outcome. Private reports as well as
public demonstrations lead the man- J
agers to the conclusion that the campaign
is going steadily up grade to a prospective
summit of republican victory.
One of the peculiar phases of the campaign
is the fact that in many states the
local candidates on the republican ticket
for various offices appear to be more popular
than the presidential candidate. It
was suggested in these dispatches from
the Pacific coaist earlier in the campaign
that the republican party would pull Mr.
Hughes through, and not Mr. Hughes the
republican party. Every development has
since tended to confirm that opinion.
President Wilson's personal popularitv
ki,-* if ,
it will be because the voters, after all the j
fuss and flurry is over, all the specioui |
arguments sifted and winnowed, decid*'
that the republican party is better fitted '
to run the nation than the democratic I
party.
TO BEGIN HEARINGS SOON
ON O.C. APPROPRIATIONS
House Committee Likely to Sit After
the Election, Chairman Page
Informs Friends.
The District appropriation bill will
In all probability be. the first supply*
measure to be taken up by the House;
and hearings may be called shortly
after election.
Information to this effect has reached
Washington within a day or two. Chairman
Page, who is' now campaigning in
his own state, has written to friends !
here indicating that he will be found
in his office in the House office building
perhaps within a week after the ?
election results are known. Officials of
; the District have prepared their estimates,
and printing: office copies of the
figures are in readiness. The total
amount of the estimates is said to be
a trifle over $16,000,000, which is
roughly $4,000,000 more than the current
act.
It is believed also that an attempt i
will be made to pass the District unl |
through the House before the holidays,
so that it can be handled in the Senate 1
during the month of January.
January Calendar Generally Small.
There is generally a slump in business
in the Senate in January, followed by a
terrific rush, especially in the short session.
Members of both houses who have
an eye to expediting business will en- i
deavor to get the District bill to the Sen-j
ate early, followed by the legislative, ex-!
ecutive and judicial appropriation bill.
From the standpoint of the legislators
who have to prepare and follow the details
of these two bills, they are termed
"the hardest bills in Congress."
It is entirely possible to prepare, introduce
and report the District bill on the
second day of the coming session. This is
generally the rule for short sessions. Two i
years ago the bill was reported December
7 and left the House on the way to i
December 14. It wax not An- I
acted, however, until the last day of the!
session. !
Auto Speeders Kill 31 in Six Weeks.
CHICAGO, November 2.'?Thirty-one
persons have been run over and killed
in Chicago by speeding automobiles
during the last six weeks, according to {
figures made public today by the coroner's
office. The death of two persons
yesterday, which brought the total up
to this number, aroused city officials
and the heads of motor clubs to join in
| a. movement to minimize the peril in the
I otreets.
- %
moras HEAR
NENTTOiY
Climax of Campaign Will Be
Madison Square Garden
Meeting Tonight.
ADDRESSES BUSINESS MEN
By the Associated Pre**.
NEW YORK. November 2.?Wheri
the President reached the Grand Central
station this morning to spend his
only day of campaigning in New York,
city, with four speeches on his program
for the afternoon and evening, he was
cheered by a large group of railroad
men, some of them carrying American
flags.
He was met at the station by Col.
Edward M. House and Vance C. McCormick,
chairman of the democratic
national committee. "With him they mo?i
tored to the New York Yacht Club pier
and boarded the Mayflower for a political
conference.
Mr. Wilson was accompanied here by
Mrs. Wilson. Miss Margaret Wilson, his
daughter; Miss Helen Woodrow Bones,
his cousin; John R. Wilson of Baltimore,
his brother; Secretary Tumulty,
and Dr. C. T. Grayson.
Mrs. Wilson on Shopping Tour.
While the President. Mr. House and
Mr. McCormick were on the Mayflower,
Mrs. Wilson and the other women in
the party went, for a short shopping
tour. The President found it would be
impossible for him to carry out the
program set for him and decided not to
attend the 69th Regiment bazaar In the
afternoon. Mrs. Wilson, however, arranged
to visit it, and a committee of
women from the bazaar planned to
meet her at a hotel after her husband
had addressed the luncheon of the Wilson
Business Men's League.
The President, instead of going to
the bazaar, it was announced, would, at
the invitation of Mr. McCormick, visit
democratic national headquarters here.
He desired personally to meet the staff
working for his re-election and to see
the machinery of the headquarters in
operation. After visiting headquarters
he arranged to return to the Mayflower
to work on his night speech.
Officials in the President's party said
no announcement was ready in connection
with the sinking' of the British .
steamship Marina, with the resultant
loss of American lives.
Discusses Business Problems.
Discussing the business problems facing
the nation. President Wilson delivered
at a luncheon of the Wilson
Business Men's League the first of his
four campaign addresses. He eu
greeted by a notable gathering of busi.
nefis men' from many parts of the country,
and also by many prominent in
political and professional life.
Secretary McAdoo of the Treasury,
Mayor Mitchel. Samuel Seabury, the
democratic candidate for governor oNew
York; William F. MeCombs, candidate
for United States senator: Gov.
Fielder of New Jersey, Senator James
of Kentucky and Senator Hughes of
New Jersey were among those seated
at the President's table.
William Church Osborn will preside
at the meeting at Madison Square Garden.
The only other speaker will be
Martin H. Glynn, former governor of
New York.
U. S. Is Not Afraid to Fight,
President Wilson Informs
Large Audience in Buffalo
By t lie Associated Press.
BUFFALO. X. Y.. November 2.?
President Wilson declared in his
speech here last night that the United
States is not afraid to fight and Is not
disinclined to fight for the objects for
which it was founded. He "opposed
sectionalism and said the interests of
peace and war should not be used lor
partisan advantage.
During the ?ate afternoon ride the
President iaid a wreath on the monument
of former President McKinley.
Previously he had spoken at the
invitation of the Ellicott Club.
The principal political demonstration
was staged last night during the President's
ride from his hotel to the hall.
In an automobile he proceeded along *
streets lighted by ilarlng red lights.
A band played martial music. The
sidewalks were lined with people. The
hall was packed. As the President
entered the hall the people stood,
waved American flags and cheered.
"Too Much Passion in Campaign."
President Wilson said, in part:
"I have come here for the purpose of
giving myself the pleasure of discussing
some of the permanent interests
of the great country, which wc love.
The interest of the campaign is largely
ephemeral. It centers too much in
personal feeling. It centers too much
in party passion.
JL Ava.il l m nam .? uu, iuj h;jiww * ? n sens,
against any sort of division,
whether of interest or of party, whffch .
divides you in feeling. I am ready to give
nightly challenge to any man who
differs with me in opinion, but the one
thing I wish him not to differ with
mo about is love of America.
"I am even ready to believe that the
men who differ with me in political
opinion are good fellows. They don't
always show it. They sometimes sayvery
disagreeable things. They sometimes
have an attitude of hostility
which is very consistently maintained,
but 1 am ready to believe that after
the talk is over, after Ave have stripped
oursel\res of the purposes of the moment.
we can get down together on a
common American basis and express
a common love for a common country.
Must Prove U. S. Is United.
"At any rate, what challenges the
spirit of America just now is this: That
n?tinns think Ave are -tiiviHjmI
and it is our duty to prove to them
that we arc united. But we can't do
that unless we are united. That is one
thing about which you cannot put *?p
a bluff. If the capitalistic class of this
country is going to 'continue to try to
drive hard bargains with the laboring
class, if men of different nationalities
are going to look upoti each other with
suspicion, there will not be the unity
in the United States which ought to
bind it together in order that it may
have singleness of heart and unity o:'
purpose. The enterprise of the immediate
future is a great get-together enterprise.
"So that I feel like saying to every
man, when it comes to a political
choice, follow the man that you believe
id going in that direction. So far ajf 1
am concerned, I don't care whether
i
