' u
r
b
i
.y
i
ft
NIGHT
EXTRA
VOL. m. NO. 43
E
uemnn
w
financial edition
.-.J. ,,
V)A7
"VN
fefrger
NIGHT
EXTRA
,
PnrLADELPnLV, TIIUHSDAY, XOVEMHER 2, 191G
Cortsionr, 1018, it irta fctua Lcm Courm
PKIOE ON cittm
FORT VAUX WON
BY FRENCH; FOE
FORCEDTOQUIT
Berlin Announces Evacua
tion of Important Defense
Northeast of Verdun
POUNDED BY FRENCH GUNS
Work3 Blasted by Retiring
Troops Slight Allied Gains
on Somme Admitted
U-BOAT OFF VIRGINIA CAPES
Hugo Submarines Believed to Hnvo Con-
voyed Deutschland Sighted 400
Miles East of Coast
RALTIMOnE, Nov. 2. A huge submarine
believed to be a German of the U-5J typo,
la now lying olt the Virginia capes, accord
Inir to Captain 11 Illrnh, of the Norwegian
freighter Osterdal, which nrrhed here to
day from Cardiff, Walts. Captain Hlrsch
says he sighted the submarine on Tuesday
night about 400 miles east of Capo Henry.
The submarine came to the surface only
800 feet away from the Osterdal but did
not signal her and left a short time after.
It Is believed the submarine convoyed the
Deutschland on her Journey across the Atlantic
BERLIN, Nov. 2. Fort Vaux, on the
northeast front of Verdun, has been evacu
ated by German troopa. It waa officially
announced today.
"The artillery engagement on the cast
bank of tho Mcuso repeatedly Increased
to great Intensity," said the War omco.
The French directed especially heavy de
structive Are against Fort Vaux, which
had already beep evacuated during the night
time by our troops, following a ghen order
and without being disturbed by the enemy.
Important parts of the fort were blasted by
(is before withdrawing."
"North of the Somme artillery activity
was renbwed In local sections. An English
advance north of Courcelette was easily re
pulsed. "French attacks In the sector of Les
Bouefs and Itancourt brought small ad
vantages for the enemy. Northeast of
Monal and on the notthwest edge of Pierre
Vaast wood the enemy attacks were gen
erally repulsed with sanguinary losses.
Our troops, in splto of tenacious resistance,
made an advance In tho north part of
Ballly."
Fort Vaux was the laBt of tho Verdun
forts remaining In the hands of the Ger
mans, Fort DouaUmont having been re
captured by the French In their recent of
fensive. Dispatches from the Verdun front
Saturday night declared that Fort Vaux
was surrounded on three sides by the
French, whose artillery waa ringing the
fortress wlth fire, cutting off supplies to
the Germans.
Fort Vaux was captured by the Germans
n June 6 after a terrific battle. It occu
pied a strong position on the summit of a
hill and the French had repeatedly repulsed
storming attacks up Its v steep sides. The
Germans systematically reduced tho French
defenses by constant artillery flrq until the
fort was no longer tenable. Its evacuation
by the Germans-came on the 252d day of
the great struggle t Verdun,
HUGHES CONFIDENT
G.0. P. WILL TRIUMPH
IN OHIO AND INDIANA
Debatable States Gave Him Won
derful Reception, He Tells
"Home Folks" in
York State
RAPS FOES' PROMISES
CREW OF BREMEN
TO BE HONORED BY
DEUTSCHLAND MEN
Tribute at Sea Planned for
Lost Sailors of Sister
Ship
BRITISHERS ON GUARD
Destroyers to Be Used in EfTprt
to Run Down
U-Boat
AERO MAIL FLYER
DESCENDS AT ERIE,
ENGINE TROUBLE
Carlstrom Will Resume New
York Trip After Mak
ing Repairs
HE COVERS 480 MILES
FRENCH WIN .MORE GROUND
ON SOMME FRONT; CAPTURE
n. 53G PRISONERS IN 24 HOURS
PAUIS, Nov. 2. Fighting their way for
ward through fog and battle smoke, the
French won fresh ground last night on the
Somme front and the Les Boeufs-Sallly-Sali-ltsel
line.
In announcing this success today the
French War Office reported also the cap
ture of 636 German prisoners In the last
twenty-four hours. Thd communique fol
lows) "North of the Somme Ither, In spite of
bad weather, we have obtained further ad
vantage on the line of Lea Boeufs and Sallly
Kailllsel. Our trosps have consolidated the
newly won ground and have captured eight
more German officers and 186 men. This
flakes a, total of S36 of the enemy captured
In the Jast twenty-four hours.
"On tho right bank of the Meuse (Ver
dun front) the night was relatively calm.
There is nothing to report from the rest
of the front"
The foregoing official report not only
makes no mention of the evacuation of
Fort Vau. admitted by Berlin, but reports
that In the neighborhood "the night was
relatively calm."
BATAVIA, N. T.. Nov. 2. Charles K.
Hughes today said he was entirely confident
of victory In the debatable States of Ohio
and Indiana. Speaking before an enthu
siastic? audience hero ho said:
"I have Just returned from n trip through
Ohio and Indiana, with a. profound sense
of gratification and entire confidence vlth
respect to the result In both States. In both
Ohio and Indiana It Is not exaggerating to
say that I had receptions which perhaps ex
ceeded those accorded to any presidential
candidate.
That was, of course, rt a tribute to mo
personally, but It was nn Indication of the
deep Interest that the people are taking In
tho essential conditions of their prosperity
and their satisfaction that there Is a great
reunited Republican party ready for sorvlce
at th's time.
"Wo know, of course, well that so far
as promises go no party can exceed tho
promises made by our opponents But we
measure what they say by what they have
done. They told us four yearsago they
would reduce the coat of lhlng They said
they would do away with extravaganco in
Government. They tell us now that they
are going to deal with economic problems
that confront us at this time In a satisfac
tory manner.
"But If we endeavor to ascertain by which
principle they are to bo guided, wo look In
vain. I propose. to tell you by-what-prin-clplo
we shall be guided. We are not guided
by war prosperity,"
GERMANS PLAIT U-BOAT LINE
TO BREAK BRITISH CENSORSHIP
Hope to Establish Effective Mall Serv
ice to U. S.
WASHINGTON. Nov. 2 A schedulo of
one mall-carrying merchant submarine
trip a month between Germany and the
United States Is now tho hope of the Ger
man Government. This Is desired In order
to destroy the effectiveness of tho British
censorship, it was learned from German
officials today.
The second successful trip of the"
Deutschland has convinced the Embassy
here that this can be done, and It Is de
clared the establishment of German credit
In this country will result, together with
tho transaction of necessary German
American business of many kinds.
RUSSIANS IN FRESH ATTEMPT
TO SMASH TEUTONS' LINES .
ON THE NARAYUVKA RIVER
PETROaRAD, Nov. 2. Fierce battles be
tween Austro-aerman forces., and Russian
troopa are taking place south of Brzezany,
en the Zlota Ltpa River, In Oallcla, says the
Russian offleial statement Issued last night. '
In the region of Mlchlshcu Wood superior
Teuton forees pressed back, the Russian
troopa to the southern portion pt the wood.
LONDON, Nov. 2.- The Russians are con
tinuing their desperate efforts in Gallcla and
Volhynl. Flyo times lit night Letchtteky
sent hi troops forward In dens; masses on
the east bank of the Narayuvka river. In
each attempt, the Russian columns were
mowed down by the fire of the Austrian
guns and rolled back to their trenches.
To the north of this region. In the Zlota
Lip lector, the Germanic foices assailed
the Russian lines with the strongest units
at to the attack In weeks. At one place
the Russians were repelled by the eu-
CeaUoued en !' four. Column Two
' THE WEATHER
FORECAST
Fr Philadelphia and vieimty Fair
mthrld mild temperature tonight
'' " swwi Friday moderate eouthuieet and
Russian Pastor Held as Bigamist
NEW YORK, Nov. 2. John Trachtnsky,
a Passaic, N. J., church worker, has been
arrested for bigamy. It is alleged that
after he had married Miss Elena Denzel,
of Passaic, he married Miss MIchallna
Mycka, of 43 Henry street, who charges he
absconded with 1500, her life savings, after
ho had lived with her for only one day.
Trachtnsky studied for tho priesthood In
Kiev, Russia. He was assistant pastor in
Greek Cathollo churches at Minersville. Pa,
and Perf JTAmboy, N. J.
NEW LONDON, Nov. 2 Amid the toss
ing billows of the mid-Atlantic funeral ser
vices wilt Jjo held for the crew of the lost
merchant submarine, Bremen, when tho
Deutschland goes on her oago home.
Now that they are certain that the
nremen went to the bottom, the crew of the
Deutschland decided today that the most
appropriate way they could gle farewell
honors to the seamen on their Ill-fated sister
ship would bo to hold a memorial Bcrvice
at sea. Consequently It was decided that
a laurel wreath, bound with tho German
Naval ensign, should be cast upon the waters
whllo tho prayers were said.
It was first suggested that the words
"auf weldersehen" (until wo meet again),
bo Inscribed on the emblem, but some ob
jected to It.
"It is too much like tempting fate." said
the objectors. "We may meet those poor
fellows at tho bottom of the sea Boon
enough."
The expenses are being borne Jointly by
nil tho members of the Deutschland crew.
BRITISH SHIPS ON GUARD
Swift destroyers from tho British naal
base at Halifax will try to run-down the
German merchant submarine Deutschland
when Bhe starts on her return voyage to
Germany. Information was received here
today that tho British will not rely wholly
upon their patrolling fleet of cruisers when
the Deutschland starts for home, but will
put their trust In tho agile and speedy
destroyers Instead
An official of the German Embassy ar
rived today and immediately departed for
Washington with a bag of official mall.
Paul Hllken, of the Eastern Forwarding
Company, said today that Count von Bern
storff, German Ambassador, would come
here next Tuesday to visit the Deutsch
land. Completely shrouded from view from the
new) $1,000,900 Stato pier and her mother
ship, the Wlllehad, the Deutschland was
the scene of great activity today. Every
thing was ready for the immediate removal
of her cargo.
The cargo is much more valuable than
was first estimated, some placing the figure
at aa high as $10,000,000. It waa reported
that the undersea liner carried Jewels, but
this was denied. However, It Is certain
that she carried quantities of securities in
addition to drugs and chemicals.
PLANS ANOTHER VOYAGE
Captain Paul Koenlg was anxious to get
his boat reloaded and started on the home
ward trip as quickly aa possible, for he
hopes to make another voyage before win
ter weather Interferes It Is possible that
the Deutschland may remain here only a
week.
The wireless apparatus of tho under
water freighter has been sealed by United
States naval authorities, so that Bhe can
not communicate with ships at sea.
Captain Hinch, of the Eastern Forward
ing Company, American agents of the own
ers of the Deutschland, at first objected
to this precedure because Lieutenant
Brlggs, U, S. N., was not In uniform.
4 However, as soon as the proper creden
tials were produced no further protest was
mode.
Captain Koenlg said he expected to have
nn rilmfii1Hi with thn rntnms nflln(&lfi. If
Siny arose at all It would be over the secu
rities carried.
Carlstrom Gets Nonstop
Record for Aeroplane'
VICTOR gARLSTROM today flew
approximately 450 miles, Chicago
to Erie, in four hours nnd sixteen
minutes, nn American nonstop rec
ord for flight by ncroplnnc.
Tho New York Central's fastest
train, the Twentieth Century Lim
ited, makes the dlstnnco from Chi
cago to Erie, 43G miles by its tracks,
in nine hours.
ERIE, Pa., Nov. 2. Victor Carl
strom left Eric nt 2:34 o'clock, headed
for Buffalo.
ERIE, Pn, Nov. 2. Winging his way
from Chicago to Now York at the rnto of
almost one hundred miles nn hour. In nn
effort to make n nonstop flight. Aviator
Victor Carstrom -was forced to descend near
Erie at 11:27 o'clock this morning, after
hnvlng flown 480 miles Englno trouble
brought tho daring aviator to earth
One of the pipes on his 200 horsepower
machine., came loo-ie soon after ho left
Glrard near Erie. Carlstrom kept on flying,
however, but when seven mllct Bouth of this
city the engine trouble became so bad that
ho was forced to land nnd camo down on
the circus grounds In the southern section
of tho city.
When he landed Cnrlstrom said ho was
"feeling flno" and declared he would con
tinue his trip Just ns Boon ns repairs were
made.
Carlstrom left Chicago about 6 o'clock
this morning and at .one stage of his Jour
ney waa flying more than one hundred miles
an hour.
Despite the fact that he descended he
established a new American nonstop record,
the next best being his own flight of 41C
miles, from Newport News to New York.
Carlstrom's flight Is the first aerial mnll
route, designated. He la carrying letters
from Mayor Thompson to President Wilson.
Governor Whitman, of New York, nnd
Mayor Mltchel, of New York; from Gov
ernor Dunne to Governor Whltmah : 'Slajor
General Thqmas H. Barry to Major Gen
eral Leonard A. Wood; Blon J. Arnold to
Thomas A. Edison; Association of Com
merce to the Merchants' Association of New
York ; Postmaster Campbell to Postmaster
OeYieral Burleson; cards of greeting to the
Kaiser and other German officials, which
It is Intended shall be forwarded on the sub
marine Deutschland, as well as greetings
from Chicago to New York newspapers.
TWO ARRESTED FOR DRINKING
UNDER NEW VIRGINIA STATUTE
Former Barkeepers Jailed as They
Start on Hunting Trip
RICHMOND. Va . Nov. 2. Frank Strang
and William Rhodes, former bnrkeeperj,
were arrested today for drinking In nn
automobile on a public thorqughfaro In
violation of the new prohibition law. It
was the. first alleged violation of Its kind
In Richmond since the State-wide prohlbl.
tlon went Into effect midnight Monday.
The men were going hunting In a Jitney
when arrested Two gallons and a pint
of whisky were found .n the machine.
Dr. Fry Heads Pennsylvania Germans
NORRISTOWN. Pa , Nov. 2 The Penn-syhnnla-Cerman
Society, meeting here to
day, eleeted the Rev, Dr. Jacob Fry, of Mt,
Airy Seminary, president, to succeed Dr.
George T, Ettlnger, dean of Muhlenberg
College. After a paper by Irvln P. Knlpe
on "PennsyUanla Germans In the Civil
War." the members went in automobiles to
Valley Torge, where at Washington Memor
ial Chapel a stop wan made and an address
of welcome delivered by the rector, the Rev.
W, Herbert Hurk. A banquet will be held
tonight.
UMfiMI QV BAY
t. ( H.KWB IWH. OlM n.t.
jjtj riM
MLAWAHJC MVHK
0KWTNUT
& ::& uivbmis.
agLpv-fi ..
StS'.'. W;
las wit
TSMrtKATUKK AT JtACM MOPB.
II TX IftDmjOOCTItpr
Ml flBIHftl UI Ul 1
WILL OF NINE WORDS
GIVES ALL TO WIDOW
Testament Penciled on Paper
Inch Square Disposes of
Property, Worth $2444
The shortest and the smallest will eer
seen In the office of the Register of Wills
here was admitted to probate today. The
Instrument was written in lead pencil on
the back of a paper postage-stamp holder,
a, little more than an inch square. It was
undated and unwitnessed, .but ft bore the
proper signature of tho testator, Louis
Neher, late of 1(36 Germantown avenue,
who died in the Stetson Hospital October 12.
His effects were valued at 12444, and all
were given to his widow under the terms
of the will, which reads, "Alt my earthly
powtMlons I leave to my wife." The In
strument was found in the pocket of a vest
belonging to the decedent, and from its ap-'
pearanee it had been there a long time.
In disposing of her estate, which Is val
ued at I41SB, tho will rf Mary A. TVeyl,
who died in the Woman's Hospital, cuts off
her husfeasid, Charles H. Weyl, with 11 -iia
hi aetlen toward me during llfellfHKn
sueh as -woul4 warrant ery little from
me." The remainder of the estate 1 be
queattted to. a daughter,
The entire estate of Jean T. Graham, late
of 3113 HajoHton street, amounting tn tin .
set, is JbeHHtBtd by will to three nephews
a ml two nlocB.
Other wilts admU4 to probate today
-wet J m, )l(l North Buck
nll t(iMt, who left property voluod at
it SUMbeth A, TyMMi. 2121 Oxford
strMt, M04 J 0arw W, Taylor, JrJ, M
Kenaoa trt-, floM.
Tho personal eJfeoU of Jessie Hoffman
,TVjar
L.M"-J!lMi;
PASTOR, NOT ORDAINED,
' MARRIED MANY PAIRS
Chicago Couples Endeavor to
Learn if They Are Legally
Wedded
CHICAGO, Nov. 2. Dlscoery by mem
bers of his congregation that the "Rev."
jGeorge H. Harvey, long pastor of Faith
Congregational Church, who has performed
many marriages here, lias never been or
dained as a minister has caused consterna
tion. , t
Many Chicago roupfes united by the pas
tor today are making efforts to learn if they
are legally married, and two have signified
their Intention of having another ceremony
performed today.
The "Rev" Mr. Harvey has resigned aa
a result of the revelations.
CRAZED BY ALLEGED JOKE
h w
iuif
v
J .
!fJI'w,'i
Prisoner Becomes Frantic When Told
Civil Summons Is "Death Warrant"
Prisoners in the Camden County Jail
played a so-calad Joke on Michael Mlga, a
fellow prlonrtvho Is awaiting sentence
fur staDDing rersMp Kuiviias, of lins Mor
ton street, tlwttoiot resulted fatally
They told. Mlga thatsummons served upon
htm 'for a oivll sulOto recover damages
was1 his death warrant.
Mlga, who U Polish and cannot read
BntdWiacoelXed th word of the other In
mate. He grew frantic, verMmod, tore hair
from his head ami trUd to commit suicide
by batUrlng bis head against the Iron bars.
The noise made hy Mlga attracted the
attention or in jailors, who atrwd the
uw muw psysi-
maallv mmI lniar.
U ' tr jitAw w
"Plil A
CHIHUAHUA GARRISON
FACING STARVATION
Villa Forces Surround Northern
Capital and Cut Off Food
Avenues
nriaoner and
eln, pr. ra
WASHINGTON, Nov. 2 0ern!ght re
ports received here Indicate that Chihuahua
City, General Carranta's northern Mexico
stronghold, is about to fail Intohe hands
of Francisco Villa's forces again. While
Carrania's army under General Jacinto
Trevlno has remained-Inactive during the
last Ave days, the Vllllstas have sur
rounded and Isolated the city by cutting
the railroads both north and south.
This leaves the Carranzlstas one of two
alternatives, either starvation or evacua
tion of the city. For weeks there has been
a shortage of food In Chihuahua, and such
meager supplies as have been obtainable
have been shipped in from the United States
via Juarez. This means of supply -Is now
cut off. 6
ZAYAS, LEADER OF LIBERALS,
WINS, PRESIDENCY OF CUBA
" ' ' '
Gets Big MajorityCongratulated by
Predecessor
HAVANA, N'evy 2 General Alfredo
Zayai, leader of, the Liberal party in Cuba,
has been eleoied Preoktent of the Republic
succeeding General Mario Meocal. Com
pilation today of the QMnpiote returns in
yesterday' balloting showed that the ma
jority w XoMa WS unusually large.
QosteMl Wynnnf baa sent (his telegram
to Ut r
"I WW
T
.W
WMMW
M ajpi HK J
'PEsKr-
QUICK NEWS
ADDITIONAL RACING RESULTS
I'll st ritnlko race, nil ages, mnltlens, 3 furlongs Birl XlS,
Mink, $31.02, 95.00, 9-1.40, won J Life, 107, Crumn, 80.10. 93.1D,
second; Billy Oliver, 115, Robinson, 93.30, third. Time, 1.15 l-3i
, Second rimllco race, steeplechase, 4-year-olds and up, selling,
2 1-4 miles Wcldshlp, 157, Smott, 9 1.00, 94.10, 93.00, won; Expecta
tion, 137, Bryant, 912.00, 97.00, second; Tcbcte, 157, 'Henderson,
91.80, third. Time, 4.20 3-5.
First Windsor race, purse ?000, nil .ages, selling, 5 tuilougs
Blrtlman 115, Cony, 95.20, 93.00, 93.00, won; Mnrlc O'Brien, 115,
Collins, $30.00, 913.S0, second; Talcbcnicr, 115, Williams, 93.00,
thhd. Time, 1.01.
WOMEN PLEAD FOR VOTES FOR WILSON
The Pennsylvania Wonien's Woodrow. Wilson Lpagtic is in tho ntlcfsfr'jof
a nlno-dajr campaign .designed to win ;Vdtejkj;op ho President t(ti
Tu.esdny's clectiph', 'IVjisa, LadsoA jHall, of Now York,, appears xhele
"stumping" from an automobijo at Fifth and WalnuJ streets toddy.
BERRY NAMES EYRE IN CAPITOL GRAFT
PAniCUSnUItG, Nov. 2. The assertion that T. Larry Uyrc, candidate for State
Senntor on tho Rcpjhllcan ticket, wa3 connected with tho State Capitol ginft scandal
and that John II. Sanderson, convicted furniture contractor, confessed before ho
died that Uyre inveigled him into the deal was made by Collector of the Port Berry
in a speech nt Parkesburij, Chester County. Ills address extended until after mid
night this morning.
BIG DEMAND FOR P. R, T.; LAKE SUPERIOR JUMPS
There was an unusual spurt in the activity of Philadelphia Rapid Transit trust
certificates at the opening of the Philadelphia Stock Kxchange today and one block
of 1500 changed hands at 21, a mark that was passed only once before this year.
The certificates continued in demand later nnd after losing part of tho early
gain recoercd the loss and went to 21 V4. Tho closing price .yesterday was 20.
The nctivity was not thought to hao nny special significance by the Street, other
than to reflect the general strength in New Yot k nnd this city and to he a response
to tho good earnings. There wns more talk of a pool, but this rumor could not be
confirmed I.ako Superior attracted the most interest in the local trading, and
although it sold at 23, the highest since 1913, yesterday, It started out by leaps
and bounds today, ndvanclng 9K within the (list few minutes to 33&. Later it was
easier. Speculative buying was bc11oed to be responsible for tho biff gatn, and the
general strength of the markets naturally had a good effect. Some authorities be
lieved that covering by Bhortsivas tho strongest influence.
VILLISTAS BUTCHER TRAIN GUARDS; ROB 400 PASSENGERS
Kb PASO, Tox., Nov. 2 Twenty-eight Mexican de fncto soldlerx, forming- the
escort of u train on tho Mexican Central Railway line, were reported butchorcd, 400
passengers were lined up and tobbed and n German subject beaten senseless by
200 Vllllstu bandits at La Guna last Monday, when the railway lino was out by
tiio VilllstBH. The report was made in nn official announcement by Qonsul Soriano
Bravo. The town of Lu Guna is about ICO miles south of tho American border.
DR. HARRISON RESIGNS AS ART JURY HEAD
Charles Custls Harrison, who has been president of the Philadelphia Art Jury
jjfnco it was founded, sent his resignation to Mayor Smith today, He said tho work
required too much of hU timo. The Ma) or accepted the resignation and appointed
John Frederick Lewis, president of tho Pennsylvania Academy -of the Fine Arts, to
membership on the Jury to fill the vacancy. The Jury will elect its president to suc
ceed Doctor Harrison. Doctor Harrison was formerly provost of the University o
Pennsylvania. ,
JERSEY COUNTY OFFICIALS INDICTED BY WHOLESALE
BELVIDKItK, N. J., Nov. 2 The Grand Jury of Warren County reported forty
bills of indictment to Judge Joseph M. Roseberry today and adjourned to December
4. It is said that this includes every member of the Board of Freeholders, the
County Engineer and the County Attorney. These Indictments are the result of the
three years' probe ordered by Judge Trenchard into the business of tho freeholders.
FIREMEN DEN
FAULTIN DEATH
TOLL OF BLAZS
Two Women and Man 1km
Lives in Apartment
House
NEIGHBORS GAVE AlD
Allege Engine Company Wai
Tardy in Response to" M
Summons "- 1
I 1 1".. W W"4 f i HI viiES I
1 1 I J i I r1 hi j
i U t If HLvJ
v s t t 111 r gMjHjsssaMisadf'Mt! .aai ISi&igt
1 uHl .-tfT. HHIH rs7nJt " " UQsBiBI i
4c v 3 Hell kt3flu)xtiik BHHHHHHHHHHH P c iHHvr ' HtOHHHHHI 4
sllHH&N Jr kSKbKiB' SHHIaHKtsflK ( t - MHK, iiaBRv
HHHKIttLvMMK-flH&JHHRv::' ' vBsHbwsBHV ?
l3BjHjHHpMjfiJHHt4 k t jSSWk' i- .sjiiBBb.-y r flHHxlsi
Charges of tardiness on the part et Fir
Engine Company 'No. 2, at Warnoek a4
Berks streets, in responding to the' Are at '
1719 Norrls street, which resulted f4Hr
for three persons shortly before 1 a'o)ek
this morning, nre being made by neighbor
who were aroused by the conflagration tuA
sent In alarms.
Additional charges that Mr. and Mrs,
Charles Trout, lessees of the house,, oexr- ,
nted H as n tenement In direct violation e-f
the housing laws, were also brought. Inf
view of the contradictory eldence, CereerV ( 3
"William 11. Knight and Coroner's Detective '3
Frank Paul made n personal visit to the
house and promised a thorough Investiga
tion of tho charges. A police quarantine:
has been placed about It Coroner Knight
declared a determlnel effort would be mads
to fix the rctponslbllity
Tho dead nre:
uns Et.CArJon r.Lizxnirni iiowarb.
ftbout nny ynr of , who. nccorte
the lalrtt rtporti, atrtd Hit (Ire br (JroMrtfic
llshtn mi tcli on mat'.lar on tli Bitrd
floorlhsll
NO OUTSIDK FIRE-ESCAPS
Threo families and other boarders resided
In the apartment house, leased by 'Mrs.
Charles Trout, who admits that she had
been warned by the housing commission for
maintaining a tenement house without an
outside Are-escape.
v
According to a statement made by -Mrs.
Trout to ActlgJJetectrojCeri.ot tho,.
Twentloth and Berks streets police sta--'
tlon, she occupied it sicohd'-floor roe.i andj
was aroused by the barking of her bull
terrier So-So. She smelled smoke id
rushed out into the hall. There Bhe sif
Mrs. Howard going up the etalrs"w4th' a
bucket of water which she had got In the
bathroom on tho second floor. Thero'wer
ho water buckets and no Are apparatus on
the third floor.
Albert Greenfield, a real estate agent and
the son of Mrs. Esther Greenfield, wfte ews
the Norrls street property, said that o
receipt of a notice from the Housing Com
mission that the place was being run as
an apartment, he ordered Mrs. Trout not
to take nny boarders. Her lease, he pointed
out, was for a private house only.
Mrs. Trout lost her head. She rushed
into the street without waking the other
occupants of the house, leaving the oM
wpman to cope with the Are by herself.
Her screams on the sidewalk aroused tho
neighborhood. Mr. and Mrs. Herman Muel
ler, the former a viola player in the .Phiia,-
-cielphla Orchestra, who live at 170J Nerri
street, were the flrst to respond1 tocher
CRACKSMEN LOOT DELAWARE POSTOFFICE
MILLSBORO, Del , No 2. Cracksmen blew Uio safo In the postofilce here to
day and got away with 11600 worth of stamps nnd supplies, $1C0 in CJocrnment
money and $60 belonging to Postmaster Carey and also took private- papers and
doeds pf alue only to himself. They also got a number of registered letters, tho
value of which is not known.
ftavt f your vlstwy.
Zrr-'T
I has mt
XtrflP"WB, '
jmmmMmHmk
NEW TOPS FOR U. S. AND BETHLEHEM STEEL ISSUES
NEW YORK. Nov, 2. United States Steel and, Bethlehem' Steel both sold at
new high records on the Block Exchange 'to-day, United States Stee,, advanced 1U
polntB to 122it in a rush of trading, which made total sales for the morning mar?
than 900,090 shares, liethiehcm uteei jumped 25 points to 670, a now high record.
Profit-taking caused some recessions la,tert '
PLAGUE CANCELS FOOTBALL SCHEDULE
Prevalence of infantile paralyst )n otty aitd Jate has 'eaiMd " t
Pennsynania. inmmiBm iw uw uimi utv isumu it? ywnw innennnm"lio lflM
quarantine on thfi ehool at Mt, Airy ami to bar all -VtlUr. Tw fo'etteaW sssioiHUe
has been canceled except for interclasa game. (
i .i.
AEROS FLY OVER BALKANS TO P1QT1CT ipUCIIAKJMT
BCCWARkWr, Nov, . Klve aroikiw kv Jst mmi IssW inm tM AlUwl
C imtmm ( i-ft mm pm Own 4sf mMm b
istlk'WLIflHI
Lv'M.,
MRS. CHAIILKS MCANT. about elxtr resrs of
se. occupant of front rooms of the talrd
floor.
CHAW.ES MEANT, Jit ' thlrty-elrht. her son.
Tho seriously Injured, who are In the
Women's Homeopathic Hospital, are:
MISS TILSIT,, HOWARD, about twtntr, and
daughter of inn of the dead women. w
HILDA TnAINEn. twelve yeari of are, ttn&-Si
Both were seriously burned about tho
face and hands and are suffering from
smoke Inhalation.
J
Continned en Vat Tlilrleefl.
Celoma XI
VOTE OF WOMEN CLAIMED n ,
FOR REPUBLICAN TICKET
, -w-
Willcox Declares Illinois Esp-sckttljr
Wildo Strpng for Hughes ) ' "
NEW YORK, Nov., 2. The psiiUoe-l
sagoctty of women voters will be IHt U ,
test on Tuesday. Tho effect 'of .' fths
women's vote was discussed at leaeth to
day by AVjlllam R. Willcox, Natlonf4
publlc.n campaign chairman, i He' pre- :!
dieted that "most of the otlng women ca(
see through the arguments of the Demo
crats and will vote 'for Charles Kvana
Hughes." ( s ,
After predicting that Mr, Hughes' w-uM
carry Illinois, Mr. Willcox said: "I
i-l J
that most of the I00,Q0J9 wonM. o(M i
Illinois will vote the Republican tlefctt,
Asked It tho women's votes )a' th ssC
frage fi'tntes would decide the electiosi, Mr.
Willcox replleSl f
'That question s loo Radical I 4 not
believe that any one would "try t uinr
BANK RAISES SALARlk
rhiladelpWa National Glvt Vt &
Cent InerMMC to IW -Eplye
Salaries , aH HpfyM of Um MMMr.
phia, NatJwil,aiik- wofe JichftfflL JqKT.
at th rt f 9tAWY -' - -
The news sum BjVfTes suoirtat
l?t trndtyialrAttiiR. m
ianjlai inansse.-.'wiwKsttii t aslil
A yl ' SWIiSB k
bk Umtud '
tk4r VmAK
'yvftt nr wmm
IsimMm ls i
mi asuaa of
mussi dlAoMlty la obiaintng taaui
of tkw istfinrss hv bh
JWfeRR
.'rmww
f9l
