Established By Wm. Need, 1870.
VOLUME XLVI.
FINAL APPEAL!
The Price He Paid.
A wind-Bwept human derelict shambled feebly one
evening into a city saloon and asked the usual crowd
of barroom loungers for a free drink. The request was
indifferently, almost good-humoredly, granted.
“Boys,” he began, after a moment’s silence, “I
thank you for that drink. It has put a spasm of new
life into this old, worn-out frame. Want a speech, do
you? Well, you shall have one, but cutout the cheers.
I look tonight, with these rum-bleared eyes of mine, at
you young fellows here, and I seem to see, in one and
other of you, a picture of mv own lost manhood. This
bloated, sin-seared frame of mine was once as young
and handsome as any of yours. This shambling, halt
ing frame once carried itself as proudly as any on
God’s broad earth. A man in the world of men, I had
once a home, a lucrative position, many friends, and
an honored name. I had a wife as beautiful as a
painter’s dream, and as good as she was beautiful.
Vet I dropped the priceless pearl of her love and honor
into the wine cup. I watched it dissolve, and then, as
Cleopatra did for Antony, drank it down with the
swimming draught. I had children as sweet as the
lillies in the springtime, and I saw them wilt and die
under the scorching blight of a drunkard’s name.
“I had a home where Love had lit a flame upon
its sacred altars, and to which she ministered with
holy hands. I put out that sacred fire and brought
darkness and desolation to reign in the place where
sweetness and beauty once garlanded the scene. I had
ambitions that soared as high as the stars of morning
—even to God’s own throne. Yet 1 broke their beau
tiful pinions, and finally strangled them that I might
be tortured by their cries no more. All this have I
had and been. Tonight I am a husband—without a
wife; a father—without a child; a tramp—without a
home; one in whom every good impulse, every God
ward desire, has been stricken dead. Everything I
ever had has gone from me forever, and here I stand
a man beyond the pale.”
Why Not?
Our government rests upon the Home, the Church,
the School, the Ballot Box.
The liquor traffic destroys the Home, hinders the
Church, robs the School, corrupts the Ballot.
Why not kill the liquor traffic?
TAXES.
The Third Annual Report of the Auditors of Fred
erick County shows money spent by the Commissioners
of Frederick County out of the 1915 Levy as follows:
Pensions $ 3,698,50
Inquisitions 360.00
Coffins and Graves 188.00
State Insane 6,906.00
Jurors 6,445,00
Witnesses 2,104.00
Sheriff 9,108.61
Constables 2,249.69
Police Magistrates '. 1,060.00
State’s Attorney 4,080.00
Extra Attorney Fees 1,130.00
Montevue and Jail 28,000.00
Over $65,000 out of a total expense of
$320,000.00 paid for the above items.
We believe that our tax rate is high; made
so to care for the product of the saloons and
other places where strong drink is sold.
Mr. Taxpayer, 20 cents out of every dollar
of your taxes is used for the above items.
There is not one penny paid into the
treasury of Frederick county from the license
fees of the saloons and liquor dealers of Fred
erick city and county. Frederick city gets some
revenue. Emmitsburg gets some and the State
gets the balance. Now, Mr. Taxpayer, what do
you get? The whiskey seller fiddles and you
get the privilege of stepping to the music of 15
cents or more on every dollar of taxes out of
that hard-earned money of yours to care for the
product of the saloons. Mr. Taxpayer of Fred
erick County, if the saloon is closed how can
the tax rate be raised to make up for loss of
revenue from saloons when Frederick County
does not receive one cent of revenue? Mr. Tax
payer, the safe side of this question is the Dry
side. Vote to protect your interests, your
homes, your wives, your children and make
Frederick county a better place in which to live.
THE CATOCTIN CLARION.
THURMONT, FREDERICK COUNTY, MD., THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 2, 1916.
THE PRICE HE PAID.
' '' ll,n '
Shall We Heed the Call of Our Ministers?
There is no body of men who know more intimately the lives of the people of this county, their sorrows and
their joys, than do the Ministers of the Gospel. It is largely because we have seen, in the homes of our people, the
poverty, the suffering and the crime wrought by liquor that W£ HAVE COME TO HATE IT WITH A BURNING
HATRED. The homes that have been broken; the women,s hearts thal have been crushed; the husbands and wives
who have been separated; the lives which have be 3 n burdened by a bitter poverty and by a bitterer shame; the boys
who have been shorn of their manhood and the girls who have been robbed of their virtue; tee children who have been
denied the birthright of a happy home and the children who are worse orphans than if their fathers were in their graves,
-ALL THIS, THE LEGITIMATE FRUIT OF LIQUOR, HAS MADE US THE UNCOMPROMISING FOES OF
THE INIQUITOUS TRAFFIC. For the conservation of the manhood and womanhood of Frederick County; in be
half of tempted men and suffering women and children; for the sake of the homes of this community; in the name of
Him Who began His ministry with the declaration that He had come “to heal the broken-hearted, to preaeh deliver
ance to the captives, to set at liberty them that are bruised,” we appeal to the men of Frederick County to PROHIBIT
THE TRAFFIC IN LIQUOR WITHIN THE BORDERS OF THIS COUNTY.”
MINISTERS OF THE GOSPEL IN FREDERICK COUNTY.
Dry Districts In Danger!
Citizens living in “dry” districts in Frederick county, do you realize that if by any possible
combination of circumstances the liquor traffic should carry the election on November 7th, and
thus prevent the entire county from going “dry”, every “dry” district in your county will there
after be in jeopardy of having saloons sprieg up in your midst?
It is true that the immediate result of the election if the “wets” should win would not effect
“dry” territory, but what do you think the liquor fellows would do to you when the next Leg
islature convenes if they are victorious. They would consider, and rightly so, that they had a
new lease of life and a mandate from the people, after 36 years of silence on the question, to go
ahead with their ideas of “regulating the liquor traffic”.
There are persons in every dry district eagerly awaiting an opportunity to open a saloon
and if the wets win this time they will go to the Legislature, flushed with victory, and demand
that our present dry laws be stricken from the statute books and in their stead the passage of
a “Model Licence Law 4 ’ giving them the right to establish saloons throughout this county.
Prohibition is Inherently Right in Theory and Beneficial in Practice .
Published by Authority of the United Dry Forces, R. R. Lewis, Treasurer.
A Family Newspaper—lndependent in Politics—Devoted to Literature, Local and General News.
Terms SI.OO in Advance
Does It Pay?
By Charles Scanlan.
Does it pay to license a traffic which lessens the
demand for the helpful things of life, which increases
their cost and diminishes the ability to pay for them?
Does it pay to license a traffic which makes men
less skillful, less steady, less reliable; which lessens
endurance, lessens self-respect, and the respect of
others, lessens confidence, lessens credit, lessens the
demand for food, clothing, shelter, and tools with
which to work?
Does it pay to license a traffic which breeds idiots,
paupers, criminals, lunatics, and epileptics, and casts
them upon society to be supported by decent, honest,
industrious people?
Does it pay to license a traffic which increases
taxes by creating a necessity for jails, penitentiaries,
asylums, hospitals, almshouses, orphanges, reforma
tories, police and criminal courts?
Does it pay to listen to the sophistries and false
hoods of passion, prejudice, ignorance, appetite, and
greed, and close your ears to the voice of conscience,
reason, judgment, suffering, religion, and God?
Does it pay to do that which will blanch the cheeks
with fear and make you dumb with terror when at
last you stand in the presence of the Judge of th e
quick and the dead?
Prisoners At The Jail
For Month of October.
Frederick City Prisoners, 30
Received Drunk, 29
State Prisoners, 38
Received Drunk, 18
Meals Served to the above"'
during the Month, 1,048
Total For Eleven Months:
Frederick City Prisoners, 302
Received Drunk, 296
State Prisoners, 369
Received Drunk, 159
Total Received, 661
Total Drunk, 445
Total Meals served above, 10,656
Last year it cost the Taxpayers
92.743.00 to pay for meals for
prisoners.
It is the same story again this
year.
To Vote Diy”
THE BALLOT,
"Do first things first.’’
Upon opening your ballot in the booth, turn first
to the following proposition and place your cross mark
"For Prohibition’’as indicated below; then vote for
your candidates. The proposition will be found in the
third column on the ballot, the "Budget” amendment
appearing first.
“Shall the sale, manufacture (or sale and
transportation for sale of alcoholic, spirituous,
vinous, malt and intoxicating liquors for bever
age purposes in Frederick County be prohibited
from and after May 1, 1918.”
FOR PROHIBITION I X
Against Prohibition
NO. 34.
