Oregon Historical Society
L'oiiip 207 Second St
TlD
LAND
Ashland Grows While Lithia Flows"
City of Sunshine anJ flowers
Ashland. Oregon. Lithia Springs
"Oregon's famous Spa'
ASHLAND. OREGOxV THUUDAY, NOVEMBER 2, 1916
NUMBER 47
VOL. XLI
Gov. Hughes Is Greatest Friend
Of Labor Said 11 Y. Labor News
Republican Ticket
Pres. Wilson of Today Compared
With Prof. Wilson of Yesterday
Lt us briefly refer to Professor the least skillful of his fellows can
Wilson's opinion of worklngmen and do within tho hours allotted to a
his attitude toward labor unions, as (luy's labor, and no one may work
publicly expressed at a time when out of hours at all or volunteer any-
he was not seeking their votes to thing beyond the minimum I need
helD elect him to tho highest office not point out how economically dls-
in the land but at a timo when he aatrous such a regulation of labor 1b.
expressed his candid opinion as to It is so unprofitable to the employer
what he thought of tho workingman that in some trades it will presently
and labor organizations. '; not be worth his while to attempt
February 1905. at the People's anything at all. He had better stop
v,.,m m Kpw Rochelle. N. Y.. Pro- altogether than operate at an inev
fessor Wilson said:
itable and invariable loss. The labor
i !,.. ,,ninna reword the shift-'of America is rapidly becoming un
less and incompetent at the expense . profitable under its present regula
of the able and industrious." t tlou by those who have determined
"The objection I have to labor ! to reduce it to a minimum. Our eco
unions is that they drag the highest 1 nomic supremacy may be lost he
man to the level of the lowest. 1 1 cause the country grows more and
must demur with the labor unions; more full of unprofitable servants,
when they say 'You must award the Woodrow llson, while president
dull the same as you award those : of Princeton University was request
with special gifts.'" I I'rofessor Frank Parsons of
The following is taken from Wood- the Bureau of Kconomic Research, in
row Wilson's 'History of the Ameri- September, 190',, to join with others
can People"- :ln filing tnls declaration:
"The Chinese were more to be de-1 "1. We favor the eight-hour day.
elred as workingmen. if not as cltl-1 "2. Believing that the eight-hour
lens than most of the coarse crew. day means a onger and richer life,
that came crowding in every year at a fairer diffusion of wealth and pow
the eastern portB " 1 er' a ,jettc'r citizenship and a higher
"And now there came multitudes civilization through leisure for edu
of men of the lowest class from the cation, recreation, civic and social
south of Italy and men of meaner Hie. we welcome each step in the
sort out of Hungary and Poland, men progress of the eight-hour movement
out of the ranks where there was and earnestly hope for the success of
neither skill nor energy nor any in-, the Typographical Inlons in their
illative or quick intelligence." efrort to secure the eight-hour da
Tut Au. Tr,,f,.u,,r Wilson of Woodrow llson refused to sign
yesterday thought of the laboring either of the propositions, saying:
i,n nt ti,i mnntrv before he be-1 It seems to me that nothing of
NATIONAL.
For President
CHARLES EVANS HUGHES
For Vice-President
CHARLES W. FAIRBANKS
For Representative, First District
W. C. HAWLEY
STATE.
For Secretary of State
B. W. OLCOTT
For Justices of Supreme Court
GEORGE II. BURNETT
FRANK A. MOORE
For Dairy and Food Commissioner
J. D. MICKLE
For Public Service Commissioner
FRED G. BUCIITEL
For Judge First District
FRANK St. CALKINS
For Representatives Eighth District
BENJ. C. SHELDON
C. M. THOMAS
For Representative Ninth District
WILLIAM H. GORE
COUNTY.
For District Attorney
G. M. ROBERTS
For County Clerk
G. A. GARDNER
For County Recorder
CHAUNCEY FLOREY
For Sheriff
E. W. WILSON
For County Treasurer
MYRTLE BLAKELEY
For County Surveyor
A. T. BROWN
For Coroner
JOHN A. PERL
For County Assessor
JAMES B. COLEMAN
For County School Superintendent
G. W. AGER
For County Commissioner
GEO. V,. OWEN
man of this country before he be
came a politician.
Again, wc have the following re
marks from Professor Wilson of yes
terday taken from an address .deliv
ered at the Waldorf Hotel,. New
York. March 18. 1907
Who's Who Among the
County and State Officials
iu;.r. c. siiKt.iio.v
Benj. C. Sheldon, Republican nom-
thls sort can be decided thus in the i inee for Representative In the State
, abstract and that no valuable con- Legislature, was born in Missouri, but
'elusion can be arrived at except by a I moved to .Minneapolis, Minn., when
: real discussion of specific cases." ! eight years old. lie was educated
That Is what Woodrow Wilson j in the public schools of Minneapolis
;then really thought of the eight-hour 'and the University of Minnesota. Nine
"U'o sneak too exclusively Of the day Wliat ne pronamy now mums je.us ago lie sin-iu a jeai uaitMiiis
.iniMlUtic class "Hiere is another about it. when permitted to tbinK.over the I'acltic toast country ana
as ormidable an enemy to equality ! free of labor leaders and unbiased decided to locate in the valley, which
and freedom of opportunity as it is,, by the allurement of labor votes has been his home since
nM that is the class formed by the The above extractions from public In Minnesota he had been secre
labo organ izatlOM "and TeadeV of addresses made by Professor Wilson tary and manager of a large irriga
tioL,ntrv -' of yesterday show conclusively his at-1 tion company. In Oregon he has been
me country. titude towards labor before entering ! a rancher. He is a taxpayer and
my iriniu. i,llllta nct nBanre,i,v ,. ' keenlv alive to the need of keenins
rks of Professor W llson oiy ester- .r 5 . C ,vT Hnwn tn th. in,.Bt n ihil
limit.
Mr. Sheldon has been one of tho
consistent enthusiasts over the at
tractions of this valley, and his news
paper and magazine writings over the
country have gained for him a repu
tation and acquaintance excelled 'by
I few citizens of Southern Oregon. His
! campaign of the state two years ago
for Ashland's normal school Increas
ed his repuatlon as a hustler and
greatly widened his acquaintance.
be iOne of the prominent new-papers men
dav. delivered before a very fashion- against iaor at nai time, ana as n
able audience at one of the most ex- was nop a canoiuaie .or umce .
c usive hotels in this country, the certainly expressed hlmeslf cand dly
Waldorf Hotel, New York city. From and unreservedly upon the subject of
the remarks made, and the place of ( labor.
the address, it can be very readily. .. .
surmised that no laboring man was 'i a l Amite
in that audience. Professor Wilson l,GIllllUllC nuUllld
bad no thought of the man wno
earned his bread "by the sweat of i
his brow;" ho was then speaking to
tickle the ear of a different class.
That there might be no doubt as I
to Professor Wilson's attitude towara
Of Voting in State
Registered voters who will
171,11 n nuiiuui. , - , . I..l.l .!.! ..,..! 11
i.v... . ...in nnia mm a nni tier : a wav irom nome on election uay may iothuj is '" bct-huh vaucu
address delivered bv him on January j vote without trouble in any precinct Sheldon the best known Southern
l" 1909 in reply' to an invitation ' in the Ftate by obtaining a certifir , Oregonlan through the rest of the
fo'r a public address on labor ques- cate of registration from the county .state.
tion He said- 'clerk. I He has been identified with some
"I 'am a fierce partisan of the open This will be of particular advan- jof the most substantial and success
shoD and of everything that makesltagge to railroad men and traveling ! ful moves for betterment, that have
for individual liberty and I should . salesmen who will find it impossible i occurred in the valley. He is progres
like to contribute anything that to be in their home precinct on elec-isive. level-headed, a tireless hustler
might be posssible for me to con- tion day. and that real ability that gets re
tribute to the clarification of think- When this certificate is obtained i suits.
lie iircoiui a vanuuiaiu ivi nit
Legislature at the earnest request of
Ashland citizens who considered h!m
the most valuable advocate of their
normal school's cause that this sec
tion contained.
All In all. Mr. Sheldon's ability,
zeal, reputation among those who
know him, devotion to this section
and wide acquaintance over the state
make him an ideal man for Jackson
county's representative in the Legis
lature
on th formation of the riehtlit may be presented to the election
nurnoses in matters of this kind." i judges In the precinct where the vot-
Agaln we have Professor Wilson of
yesterday speaking to the graduates
of Princeton University under date
of June 13, 1909, published in the
New York World (democratic news
paper) on June 14, 1909. He makes
the following observations:
"You know what the usual stand
ard of the employe is in our day. It
is to give as little as he may for his
wages. Labor is standardized by the
trades unions, and this is the stand
ard to which he is made to conform.
No one is suffered to do more than
the average workman can do.'
"In some trades and handicrafts
no one is suffered to do more than
er happens to be on election day and
will be recognized as if the voter was
registered in that precinct.
After the election all such certifi
cates that are used will be returned
by the election officials to the coun
ty clerk who issued them, and In
that way a check will be possible so
no abuse can be made of the privi
lege. . These certificates of registration,
of course, are not good outside of
the state of Oregon.
like, economic administration of the
Pronator's office.
(;..t.rai:i.Kit
G. A. Gardner, present County
Clerk, is candidate for re-election as
County Clerk.
Mr. Gardner was elected by the
people of Jackson county upon the
promise that he would systemize the
County Clerk's office, conduct the
same in an economical, efficient and
business,' like '.-maner. Since assum
ing the duties of the office he has
carried out his pre-election promises.
It is worth any business man's
time to go Into the County Clerk's
office and see the system that has
been Installed. Every detail of the of
fice is properly looked alter and the
accounts are so kept that any voter
or taxpayer can understand them.
The County Clerk's office has been
conducted according to law, and the
fees of the office balanced daily and
turned over to the County Treasurer
regularly. The published letter else
where in this Issue, written by Of
ficial Accountant Wilson of Corval
lis, shows that the County Clerk's
office is in "excellent condition."
(The Legislative Labor News, of New
York, October 10, 1910, had the
following.)
Now that Governor Hughes has
retired . from politics and ascended
to a place on the highest judicial
tribunal In the world, the fact can
be acknowledged without hurting
anybody's political corns, that he
was the greatest friend of labor
laws that ever occupied tho govern
or's chair at Albany. During his two
terms he has signed fifty-six labor
laws, Including among them the best
labor laws ever enacted in this or
any other state. He also urged the
enactment of labor laws in his mes
sage to the legislature, even going
so far to place the demand for a la
bor law In one of his messages to an
extra Besslon of the legislature.
Only 1(12 labor laws have been en
acted in this state since its erection
In 1 777 in 1SS years. One third
of these, exceeding in quality all of
the others, have been enacted and
signed dining Governor Hughes's
term of three years and nine months.
With such a record of approval
and suggestion of progressive legisla
tion In the Interest of humanity to
his credit, It is easy to believe that
human rights will have a steadfast
jand sympathetic upholder In the new
: justice of the Bupreme court of the
United Slates.
Hughes On Labor.
"The interests of labor are the In
terests of all the people, and tho pro
tection of the wage-earner In the
security of his life and health by
every practicable means is one of
the most sacred trusts of society."
"Under wise leadership, with
statesmanlike guidance, with a sin-
W. H. Singlet
Endorses Wilson
:W
Subscription bargains until Novem
ber 10. Call at Poley's Drug Store
for prices. 47-2t
in?
What Is a Barga
DO not buy an article just because it
is cheap. It may be more of a bar
gain if you invest in better quality, new
er goods and up-to-date styles for you will
get better service and avoid that shabby
feeling.
IF you invest a moderate sum in our
ready-to-wear garments you will enjoy
that "dressed-up" feeling as long as the
garments last, and you will say "That
was a bargain."
IF you wish to make your own garments
you cannot be more stylishly gowned
than by fashioning them out of our well
selected materials upon the lines of the
thoroughly reliable Pictorial Review
patterns.
New Ganunti
All th Timt
Winter Undermailim
Are Mew Her
G. M. KOI5KKTS
G. M. Roberts, the .Republican nom
inee for District Attorney for Jack
son county, is a young lawyer re
siding in Medford, Oregon; he was
born in Indiana, and was educated
in the common schools of the state,
afterwards attending Indiana Unlver
sitv. and receiving his L. L. B. de-
Igree from that institution.
I Coming to Oregon he became as
sociated with Hon. C. L. Reames
land upon Mr. Reames assumption of
I the duties of United States IJiBtrlct
I Attorney, formed a partnership with
Wm. M. Colvig. Esq., which partner
I ship continued until the retirement
ior Mr. foivig irom ine active prac
tice of law upon January 1, 1914.
During the time that Mr. Roberts
has been engaged in the practice of
his profession in this state he has
successfully handled important liti
gation in Jackson, Josephine and
Douglas counties, the Supreme Court
of Oregon, and the Federal Court,
and has attained a very high stand
ing as a lawyer.
This enviable reputation has been
earned through close and hard appli
cation to work and duty, and has won
for him an extensive clientele, among
which are the Medford National bank
of Medford, the Producers' Fruit
company of Oregon, and the Rogue
River Co-operative Fruit Growers' as
sociation. He is young, energetic, capable,
trustworthy and the soul of honor
and integrity, and those who know
him best freely state that wherever
a choice between right and wrong is
offered that he will always be found
on the side of right, Irrespective of
consequences.
Mr. Roberts is running upon a plat
form of strict law enforcement and
attention to duty, and has pledeod
himself from the first to pay particu
lar attention to the Prohibition
statute, and the various laws having
to do with morality. His position is
unique in that he is not connected
with any organization, clique, inter
est, or community, and if elected, ho
will give the people of Jackson coun
ty a clean, straightforward, business
( H.U Xf KY FMIRKV.
Present recorder of Jackson coun
ty and republican nominee for re
election to the same office, Is a na
tive Bon of Jackson county, born at
Eagle Point on May 3, 1SS9, and
educated in the same city. His
father conducted a general store and
was postmaster of Eagle Point for a
number of years, and Mr. Florey
gained considerable valuable experi
ence as nsslstant to him. He went
to Jacksonville in the fall of 1909
and was appointed deputy assessor
and held that position until his elec
tion to the office of county recorder
two years ago. Mr. Florey Is mar
ried and the father of two children.
During his administration of the re
corder's office that department of the
county government has been carried
on in a most highly efficient manner
and Mr. Florey has proven himself
worthy of re-election to the position
which he has so capably filled.
I feel that
at this time I
should speak
to tho voters
of Jackson
county a few
words In be
half of E. W.
Wilson's caa
didacyfor sheriff on the
republican tic
ket. Mr. Wil
son has been in my employ as chief
deputy sheriff during my tenure of
office. 1 have at all times found him
honest, trustworthy and endeavoring
to bring the office to a high degree
I of efficiency. He has had the inter
est of the taxpayers at heart, by en
deavoring to reduce the costs of tho
I office to tho lowest possible figure
! consistent with good service.
I Mr. Wilson has Bcrved in nil ca
pacities of the office, knows the bus
iness thoroughly and lis needs, and
by reason of this varied experience
he will be enabled to give the tax
payers better service at a lower cost
than an Inexperienced person.
I would bespeak for Mr. Wilson
your hearty Biipport In the election
of November 7. W. 11. SING LEU.
cere Intention to promote the bene
fit of the community nnd to secure
honorable- progress, the mission oj
labor organizations is one of the fin
est that any association of mea
could guard."
"The workingman Is not asking
anything he should not have. All
he wants is a square deal."
"We must have In this country, if
we are to succeed, prosperity, pro
tection for our women and protec
tion for our children."
Some of Hughes' Achievements for
Labor as Governor of New York.
1. Better and bigger labor department.
2. Shorter hours for children Id.
' industry.
I I!. Exclusion of children from
1 dangerous employments.
I 4. Inspection of working condl
itions by the state instead of by local
boards of health.
I 5. Semi-monthly Instead of month
j ly payment of wages on railroads.
fi. Regulation of employment
! agencies.
7. Compulsory workmen's com
pensation act the first such law In
.'merlca.
I S. Protection of immigrants
'against crooked steamship ticket
j agencies.
I 10. Schools In the temporary la
I bor camps.
j 11. Establishment of public trada
I schools.
! A law making for the proper In
jspection of locomotive boilers at
1 stated periods.
I An amendment to the penal code)
of tho stiite making It a crlmo fori
.railroad corporations to overwork:
those employed In train service.
A law fixing a legal limit of eight
hours per day for telegraph and tele
phone operators and signalmen.
A law providing additional safe
guards In train service, with special
reference to tho equipment of ca
booses. A statute fixing an eight-hour day
for minors in all employment within
the state.
A law safeguarding the wage earn
ers' rights in the courts of the state.
A law limiting workman's work to
sixty hours per week, In addition to
many other measures of equal im
portance to the wage earners of that
commonwealth.
Cllf Payne makfln shoeblnck stnuds.
i, .j- ,j. 4- j. $ f 5St
CLASH ROOM XOTKS.
Quod Erat Demonstrandum.
How does President Wilson
figure it out that there will be
war in case of republican suc
cess? Ills mental processes are
evidently something like tills:
"War Is hell.
"It will be hell If I get licked.
"Things equal to the same
thing are equal to each othor,
"Therefore there will be war
If I get licked.
"Quod erat demonstrandum.
Class in logic dismissed."
E. W. (CTKLY) WILSON
In Its choice for nominee for Sher
iff the Republican party iB Indeed
fortqnate in selecting E. W. (Curly;
Wilson as their candidate.
Mr. Wilson has been a resident of
JackBon county for the greater part
of his life time, his parents having
moved to Jacksonville while he was
yet a child.
After graduating from the public
schools he was employed for a year
or two by Jerry Nunan, the pioneer
merchant of Jacksonville, after which
he became Deputy County Recorder,
and later Deputy Sheriff of Jackson
county, which position he has filled
with credit for the past four years.
Mr. Wilson's character for hones
ty, integrity and sobriety Is of the
highest order, he is strong, vigorous
and a leader in nthletic sports, and
is not too proud to work as will be
seen by any one who will take time
to investigate his record as Deputy
in the Sheriff's office.
The Sheriff's office has reached a
high degree of efficiency and econ
omy as will be shown by the follow
ing excernt from the certified pub
lic accountant's report to the Coun
ty Court, filed March 4. 1910, as fol
lows (speaking of tax collections):
"All of these collections have been
promptly denosited in the treasury.
The Sheriff is observing the law re
quiring all delinquent taxes to be
brought forward on the current rolls
and entered on tho tax receipts.
"This is a huge task, and they are
doing the work as diligently as posr
slble during the stress of a heavy
tax collection. It is praiseworthy in
the Sheriff to find his office admin
istered with no bustle or confusion.
Only expert men are employed in the
office, in the tax collections ana otn-
er departments of the office. And
it is a pleasure to find Jackson coun
ty coming forward as one of the best
officered counties in the state.
"Undoubtedly it is economy to em
ploy only efficient men in the office
a
V-IBJIKTCr
(Continued on Page Four.)
The Finest House Between
'Frisco and Portland
It Would Be Hard to Secure Better Thotoplays Than
tho Following:
TONIGHT
Glias. liay Tlie Deserter
"The Deserter" offers something so far above the
ordinary that it is sure to be appreciated. Also
"Laundry Liz,' two-reel Keystone full of mis
haps and blunders.
FHaay Pauline Frederick
Tho screen's Greatest Kinotlonal
Actress, In
World's Great Snare
A photo production too good to miss.
KIG IM1 ISLE HILL
Douglas Fairbanks
The star who always make a hit, in
one of his best plays.
Also
A Keystone Comedy that's a scream,
The Surf Girls
Saturday
Big
Sunday
Bill
Lillian Walker
in
"The Kid"
In addition to Concert by Orchestra,
MISS FLORENCE C'LAKK
of Medford
Will render a Violin Solo.
D
a
