NEW VORK QUOTATIONS. W I I V f J II JM V I I, XjjL 11,1, if jSL
' New York, Nov. 2SiIver, 68 1-8c; TjF Tt T C 7 WEATHER Utah: Tonight and
I lead, S7.007.05; spelter, $10.25 . - Friday Partly Cloudy; Not Much
j 10.50; copper, S28.0028.50. N Change in Temperature.
. IIZZZZIIIIZZZZZZIZ FEARLE3S, INDEPENDENT, PROGRESSIVE NEWSPAPER. " H
Forty-sixth Year No. 273. Price Five Cents, jj, OGDEN CITY,- UTAH, ' THURSDAY EVENING, NOVEMBER 2, 1916. Entered a. Second-Claw Matter at the Po.tofflce, Ogden, Utah.
I Germans Evacuate Strong Verdun Fort; 1 I
I French Troops are Gaining Ground 1 1
I Crown Prince Loses Nearly
I All Valuable Positions
y Gained East of the Meuse
I Rumanians Reported to Be Holding General
Von Falkenhayn in Check on the
Northwestern Frontier.
Rome, Nov. 2, via London, 5 p. m. A new offensive
was opened yesterday against the Austrians by the Italians,
the war office announced today. Advances have been scored
at some points and so far 4,731 prisoners have been taken.
r Fort Vaux, one of the most impor
tant fortifications captured by the Ger
1 man crown prince in his prolonged
drive at Verdun, has been evacuated
i by the Germans. The evacuation is
v announced by Berlin today. Shortly
after Fort Douaumont had been re
taken and a wido stretch of the front
In this region regained by the French
in their sudden offensive movement
on October 25, it was pointed out that
Fort Vaux likewise had been put In
a perilous position. The French ad
vance close to the edge of the forti
fication on its immediate front in their
great drivo and pushed well beyond it
on each side, making Its fall in the
opinion of observers at the front only
a question of a short time.
The Germans evacuated Fort Vaux
during the night, says thbir official
report, without hindrance by the
French and after portions of the fort
had been blown up. The French con
1 linued to pour a heavy fire from their
i big guns on the fortification.
Virtually all the ground of pro
nounced value, taken by the Germans
on the easterly bank of the Meuse
in their winter and spring offensive
at Verdun has now, with the fall of
; Fort Vaux, been lost to them.
, French troops operating in the Les
. : Boeufs and Rancourt sectors on the
; Somme front also gained ground yes-
terday In attacks on the German lines.
The Paris report of last nightt an
nouncing these advances is in part
confirmed by the Berlin official state
I raent today which concedes French
gains northeast of Morval and on the
edge of the St. Pierre-Vaast wood but
declares that the main effort of the
French to move forward was sanguin
arily repulsed.
The British likewise, sayB Berlin,
failed in an attack north of Cour
celette on the Somme front. London
r ; last night reported gains in the Les
; Boeufs sector in operations in con-
; , junction with the French, but an
nounced today that heavy rain was
!" falling and that there were no note
worthy happenings during the night.
There is no apparent let-up in the
1- pressure which General von Falken
hayn is exerting along tho Rumanian
northwestern frontier, but In general
the Rumanians are reported to be
holding him fairly well In check. No
new advances of Importance are an
nounced today by the German war
office.
Paris, Nov. 2. Via London, 2:53
p. m. Several German supporting
.'' points on the Sommo front were cap
tured last night by the French, says
today's communication from the war
i office. Tho announcement follows:
!. ' "North of the Somme, notwithstand
ing the persistent bad weather, wo
followed up during the night the ad
vantages gained by us between Les
h Boeufs and Sailly-Saillisel. Our troops
consolidated the ground won, carried
; ' several points of support and cleared
out several machine guns emplace
ments. "During these operations we took
1SG prisoners, including eight offi-
cers. This brings up to 53G the num
' ber of prisoners taken by us yestcr
. day in this sector."
Berlin, Nov. 2, by wireless to Say
ville. The British attempted to ad-
vance on tho Sommo front north of
t Courcelette yesterday, but were re
pulsed, the war office announced lo
day. Tho French gained Bmall advan
: tages In the sectors of Les Boeufs and
; : Rancourt. For Vaux, on the Verdun
front, has been evacualed by the Ger
mans. 3 The German statement regarding
J the western front follows:
3" "Western front: In the district
north of tho Somme artillery activity
was renewed locally. An advance o
English forces north of Courcelette
was easily repulsed.
French Gain Advantages.
j "French attacks In the sector of
' Les Foeufs and Rancourt brought
P small advantages for the enemy north-
ii east of Morval and in the northwest
edge oft'St. Pierre Vaast wood. They
wore, however, in general repulsed
$ sanguinarily. Our troops, in spile of
Efc tenacious French resistance, made ad
K vances In the northern part of Sailly.
Hi'-
"Army group of the German crown
prince: An artillery engagement on
the right bank of the river Meuse was
repeatedly increased to great Intens
ity. Destructive Fire on Vaux.
"The French up to the present have
directed an especially heavy and de
structive fire against Fort Vaux, which
had been evacuated already in tho
night time by our troops following a
given order and without being dis
turbed by the enemy. Important parts
of the fort were blasted by us before
we left the position."
Germans Storm Russ Positions.
Berlin, Nov. 2. by wireless-to Say-
ville. General von Linslngen's troops
on the eastern front yesterday storm
ed Russian positions- on -the loft "bank
of tho Stokhod river. They inflicted
heavy losses on the Russians, says to
day's official statement, and captured
more than 1,500 men.
Tho statement reporting operations
in the eastern war zone, says:
"Eastern theatre: In the " army
group of General von Linsingen the
Westphalian and East Frisian troops
under command of Major-General Dit
furth stormed tho Russian positions
which were advanced near and south
of Witoniez on the left bank of the
river Stokhod. In addition to heavy
and sanguinary losses suffered by the
enemy 22 officers and 1,508 men were
taken prisoner. Three machine guns
and three mine throwers were left in
our hands. Our losses were small.
"Further south near Alexandrovsk
we brought back from a successful
reconnoitoring raid 60 prisoners.
"In the Carpathians there were suc
cessful enterprises against the Rus
sian advanced position north of Dobna
Watnu"
Rumanian Efforts Fail.
Berlin, Nov. 2. By wiress, to Say
ville. Efforts of the Rumanians to
force back Austro-German troops
which have invaded their country
failed this morning and yesterday,
the war office announces. South of
Rothenthurm pass the Invaders are
making further progress.
The announcement follows:
"On the eastern Transylvanian front
the situation is unchanged Rumanian
attacks against the allied forces (Teu
ton) which had advanced beyond Alt
schanz and Predeal passes failed with
losses to enemy, we capiurca eignt
officers and 200 men. Southeast of
Rothenthurm pass engagements which
are favorable for us continue.
"Army group of Field Marshal von
Mackensen (Dobrudja) r Constanza
was shelled from the sea without suc
cess. "Macedonian front: Serbian ad
vances in the Cerna bend and north
of the Nidze height were repulsed.
On the Struma front theer were active
engagements in advanced positions."
Sinking of Norwegian Ship.
London, Nov. 2, 1:35 p. m. The
sinking of the 3,000 ton Norwegian
steamship Delto is reported by Lloyd's.
NORWEGIAN STEAMER SUNK.
Lisbon, Nov. 2. Via Paris, 1 a. m.
The Norwegian steamer Troinp has
been sunk.
The Tromp, a vessel of 1,752 tons,
was formerly the Dutch steamer
Johnsen. She waB last reported as
sailing from tho Tyne September 30
for Savona, Italy.
no
SENATOR BORAH TO
RESUME CAMPAIGN
Chicago, Nov. 2. United States Sen
ator William E. Borah of Idaho, who
was taken ill at Fond du Lac, Wis.,
several days ago while campaigning
in the state for tho Republican na
tional party and compelled to cancel
his speaking engagements, arrived in
Chicago today and said he felt so
much improved in health that ho ex
pected to resume his tour after a day's
rest.
OFFICIALS MIT
GERMANJtEPORT
Affidavits and Other Data to
Be Gathered Regarding
the Marina.
GERMANY'S PLEDGES
Increasing Number of Armed
Allied Ships Makes Sub
marine Question Vital.
Washington, Nov. 2. Stale depart
ment officials still were waiting to
day for Germany's version of the de
struction of the British steamer with
loss of American lives. They were
also expecting affidavits and other
data gathered from American survU
vors on which to determine whether
Germany's pledges to the United
States had been broken.
A news dispatch from Athens last
night saying 1he Greek "government"
had been notified Germany intended
to sink without warning all ships car
rying supplies to the allies was re
garded here as of great importance.
So far as is known the United States
has received no such information and
it is not known whether one has been
sent to the other neutrals.
Such a procedure would bo regard
ed by the United States as directly
contrary to Germany's pledges.
Germany's Pledges to U. S.
Secretary Lansing said today that
the United States understands Ger
many's pledges not to sink merchant
men without warning and without
providing for the safety of passengers
and crew applies to ships with de
fensive armament. No distinction'was
drawn in tho correspondence between
armed ships and the state department
does not accept any contention that
Germany's responsibility is limited to
those without armament.
Nevertheless, it is admitted that
Germany has always taken a distinct
view of the status of armed ships and
it is thought probable" that she will
attempt to inject the point into the
present situation. So long as the pol
icies of tho two governments are so
utterly divergent it is thought possible
that Germany might use the Marina
case to settle Uio issue. Her increased
submarine warfare, combined with the
Increasing number of armed allied
ships and their increasing efficiency
in defense, makes it a vital question
to her.
Secretary Lansing, while refusing to
give out any further details of the
official reports of the sinking from
the American embassy in London,
said his report was substantially the
same as that of tho newspapers.
Word Sent to Lansing.
Germany and Austria on February
10 in substantially the same terms no
tified the United States to the fol
lowing effect:
"Enemy merchantmen armed with
guns no longer have the right to be
considered as peaceable merchant ves
sels of commerce. Therefore, the
German naval forces will receive or
ders to treat such vessels as bellig
erents." However, in accepting the American
note on the Sussex demanding the
abandonment of its submarine war
fare against "passenger and freight
carrying vssels," Germany said such
vessels Bhould not bo sunk without
warning and without providing for the
safety of passengers and crew "unless
the ships attempt to escape or offer
resistance."
No condition was made as to armed
ships.
on
U.S. STEEL SELLS
AT NEW HIGH PRICE
New York, Nov. 2. United States
Steel common shares sold at the new
high record of 122 1-4, shortly after
the opening of today's market, tho
stock being absorbed in large individ
ual lots. This exceeds lla previous
maximum by half n point, tl also
passed the preferred stock which sold
at 122. 1
Other records of the morning in
cluded Bethlehem' Steel, which tobo 25
to 670 and Sears Roebuck. 3 1-2 to
232 1-2. United States Steel lost a
point on onormous realizing sales, but
this waamore,,thaacounterbalancod
MACKENSEN'S ARMY OVERRUNS ROUMANIA
: " ' jft
Mackcnsen's advance through the Dobrudja is indicated by the shaded
portion of the map. He has captured the Black Sea port of Constantza, and
the railroad leading from that city to Bucharest, as far as Cernavoda on tho
Danube.
The Bulgar-Teuton armies may move either northward into Russian
vBessarabia, where Odessa would be their objective, or westward, over the
Danube and along the railwaytoward Bucharest. The latter operation ap
parently is the one which has been decided upon.
, I
by the greater strength of other in
dustrials. Mercantile Marines were among the
other strong and active features, and
representatives rails wore in better
demand at material .advances. A strik
ing feature of tho railway list was a
fifteen point advance in Texas and
Pacific Land Trust certificates to 145.
By 12:30 o'clock sales exceeded
1.000,0000 shares of which United
States contributed fully 20 percent.
Of)
VILLA BANDITS
ROB PASSENGERS
Take Clothing From Women
and Beat German Over
Head With Club.
CARRY AWAY LOOT
Twenty-nine Carranza Sol
diers Taken From Box Car
and Shot Down.
Chihuahua City, Mexico, Nov. 1.
Via El Paso Junction, Nov. 2. After
shooting the 29 Carranza military
guards of the southbound passenger
train which loft Juarez Monday, Villa
bandits looted tho train, robbed the
passengers and even took the clothing
from the women passengers. Dr.
Haffnor, a German passenger on the
train, who was mistaken by the band
Its for an American, was struck over
the head by ono of the bandits who
used his gun as a club. Dr. Haffner
was not seriously injured. The band
ItH, who were in command of Hurga
brothers and Silvestro Quovedo, then
abandoned tho train carrying the loot
away in mule-drawn wagons,
There wore approximately 200 of tho
bandits in the band. They hold up the
passenger train as they were ap
proaching Laguna station. Tho band
Its, silhouetting tho skyline, could be
seen plainly by tho engine crew and
passengers before tho train was
stopped, but, because of tho naturo of
tho country, escape was impossible.
After commanding tho engineer to
Btop, ono of tho bandits wont through
tho train ordering passengers to
alight so they could be searched by
other bandits. Tho conductor, whose
name 1b not known, was shot in the
hip by a bandit.
The 29 Carranza soldierB from the
I Juarez garrlaon who were traveling
In the box-car Just back of the engine
I tender, . wore ordered to. alight and
were shot down in sight of tho passen
gers. This military escort was in com
mand of Captain Guzman, who also
was shot.
oo
FRENCH IS TO BE
TAUGHT IN GRADES
Montreal, Nov. 2. The French lan
guage may be used in tho Roman
Catholic separate schools in Ontario
only in lower grades, the privy council
of England holds, according to a ca
bled summary of a reception by the
higher court In the empire of a test
case.
This settles a warmly contested
issue over tho administration of these
schools, located In the eastern part
of the province, where of laie years
the problem of language has been add
ed to that of religion by the influx
of a largo French population from
adjoining counties.
A regulation of the Ontario board
of education providing that French
could bo used as a medium of instruc
tion only in the lower grades and for
teachlng It only as a language sub
ject in the upper grades, was taken
to the courts by the trustees of tho
Roman Catholic separate schools, but
is now upheld by the privy council. I
RUSS GENERAL TO
BE IN COMMAND
London, Nov. 2, 11:10 a. m. The
Wireless Press has received a des
patch from Bucharost saying that
Lieutenant-General Vladimir Sakhar
off, commander of the Russ'ian forcos
in Gallplq. arrivos in Bucharest today
and will Take command of the army
in Dobrudja?
Lioutonant-General Sakharoff is
rated as ono of the ablest Russian
commanders. He came into special
prominence last summer during tho
Russian drive in Volhynia and Gall
cia, gaining a number of important,
successes over the Austrians before
the Russian advance was halted.
oo
judge Mccormick dead.
Waco, Texas, Nov 2. Judge A. P.
McCormick of tho fifth district, United
States circuit court of appeals, died
here early today. Judgo McCormlck
was 8-1 years old and was appointed
to his important position in 1902. The
funeral will be held in Dallas.
oo
Mail Brought Across I
Seas by Deutschland I
Landed for Delivery I
. ...
Mayor of New London and Chamber of Com- H
merce Visit Capt. Koenig's Big I
' German Craft. I
New London, Conn., Nov. 2. Activi
ties of a varied nature centered about
the German undersea merchant
Deutschland and her captain Koenig,
today. While the crew busied them
selves behind the barriers which hid
the submarine from public view, in
preparing to dispose of the 700 tons
of valuable cargo which tho Deutsch
land brought from Bremen, customs
officials and naval officers prepared
for inquiry to determine the status
of the craft.
The Deutschland has been entered
as a commercial vessel, but to make
certain that every neutrality provision
has been observed, an inspection by
both naval and customs officials was
decided upon at Washington. Com
mander Yates Stirling, who is head of
the naval station here, arranged to go
aboard with his state in conjunction
with James McGovern, collector of
customs of this district. The latter
had conferred last night with Secre
tary of the Treasury McAdoo who was
at Hartford regarding the questions
involved in the Deutschland's re-appearance.
Arranging Public Welcome.
New London's citizens made plans for
a public welcome to tho Deutschland's
captain and her crew. President Al
ton T. Miner of 'the local chamber of
commerce, with Mayor E. E. Rogers
and a delegation of business men, ten
dered Captain Koenig an invitation
to a dinner at a date to be set by him.
It was said that he had accepted, al
though stating that it was with reluctance.
The announcement of the Deutsch
land's manifest was awaited with
some curiosity. Captain Koenig, esti
mating the cargo to total $10,000,000
in value, said it consisted largely of
drugs and dyestuffs, but said there
were possible securities and stones
among the consignments. As the
Deutschland on her trip to Baltimore
contained only 1,500,000 freight which
bulked as largo as her present ship
ments, it was considered most of the
$10,000,000 valuation was represented
by securities or stones.
President of Company Board Craft.
Henry G. Hilken of Baltimore, presi
dent of the Eastern Forwarding com
pany, which is the agent for the
freight service hero, said he was with
out oxact information on this subject.
With Dr. George A. Prenss, an attache
of the German embassy, President
Hilken went aboard the Deuttschland
this morning to greet her returned
skipper.
Tho Deutschland's captain refused
a plea that he allow the public to
view his craft. None but government
or city officials might enter tho en
closure, he said, and the restrictions
that prevailed at Baltimore were
placed in effoct again.
Berlin Awaiting Koenig's Message.
Berlin, Nov. 1, 11:45 p. m. Via
London, 3:15 a. m. The German
Ocean Navigation company of Bre
men has up to now been unable to con
firm the news of the arrival of the
merchantman submarine Deutschland
at New London. While the newspa
pers display prominently the British
news agencies' despatches announcing
the submarine's arrival they are in
cined to question tho authenticity of
the report. Their readers are request
ed to be reserved and not to regard
it as a certainty until a messago Is
received from Captain Paul Koenig
and thus relieve all doubt.
u"
Read tho Classified Ads.
AVIATOR STARTS I
ON AIRJOURNEY I
Carries Mail for New York City
Officials and for Deutsch
land. Erie, Pa., Nov. 2. Aviator Victor
Carlstrom, who is flying from Chicago
to New York, landed in this city at
11:25 a. m., today because of engine
trouble, but thereby established a new
American non-stop flight record. Erie
1b fust half the distance Carlstrom
set out to cover.
The aviator was flying about seven
miles south of Erie when a piston
became loose on his engine and he
made for this city so that he could
obtain the necessary mechanical as
sistance. He landed easily in a large
open field and jumping from the car
at once began repair. He said that
he was delighted with the flight as far
as he had gone.
Carlstrom was unable to tell how
long he would be delayed, but at noon IH
there was no indication of an imme
diate resumption of the flightt.
Makes Non-Stop Record.
New York, Nov. 2. The New York IH
Times, under whose auspices Victor
Carlstrom is making his aeroplane
flight today from Chicago to New
York, announced here that Carlstrom
established a new American no-stop
record when he stopped at Erie, Pa.
This is half the distance between tho
two cities.
Chicago, Nov. 2. Victor Carlstrom,
the aviator, started from Chicago on
his air journey to New York at G:09
o'clock this morning, after announcing
that ho expected to have dinner in
that city. The start was made from
the flying- field of the Aero club of
Illinois, and Carlstrom immediately
launched upon a route due east, skirt
lng the southern shore of Lako Michi
gan and following the right of way of IH
tho Lake Shore and Michigan South- JH
ern railroad.
The aviator expects to make tho
trip without stop of any kind He is IH
carrying a sack of mail, made up of
letters from city officials of Chica
go addressed to city and government
officials at New York. Included are
several communications said to be
destined for the Deutschland, the Gcr
man submarine at New London, Con
nccticut. Carlstrom has a special ap
pqlntmcnt as aerial letter carrier.
His trip is being made under the au
spices of a New York newspaper. jH
VOLCANO SANTIAGO ACTIVE. "
San Salavdor, Republic of Salvador,
Nov. 2. Reports received hero from IH
Nicaragua say the volcano Santiago
there is throwing' out lava and ashes.
Many plantations in the department of
Masaya are declared to have been
ruined.
oo fH
I l
A Big Special I
package of Murphy's fresh roasted
Hotel Utah Coffee
; Free with each Want Ad. for next Saturday's Standard.
j: We are giving the coffee away now and will keep right ;
on giving it until it is -all gone. Bring your ads. in early
: in the week and be sure of the coffee. We will hold the j;
j ad. for
