I DaJTAraMe C A Q C f A ,, ^ ^ ^ . ^ ' ' '' j ' " " , ' ' .
to0A^9?6j.4OJ I.W fli? ^1 I i tM IH* H44 ADVERTISING IN
? ?2?- '. V14- Mk VVl/3' 1/ \LJ II I] I I I I clTT THE WEST VIRGINIAN
* * W TTT'Tr^i;^ * f BRINGS TRADE i|
Northern \??t Virgtma'i Gnattrt Ahwjnqnr <^7 I J ?
SSTABLISHEIM868. TO-V. T..?v FAIRMONT, WEST VIRGINIA. THURSDAY EVENING. NOVEMBER 2. 1916. P?cETwoe.NT? ASSOCIATED PBR? 'M
IS!
?% a v%m finAAiiPAA
| nAfllUKllliKtiSii
famous Landscape Artist
Will Work Out Development
Plans.
BEGIN RATLWAY SURVEY
Both Monongahela and B. &
0. Will Run Line Into
Valley.
???_
Matters am progressing no rapidly
with regard to the development of the
Greater Fairmont Investment company's
project In Pleasant Vslloy on
the East side ot the river that the
members of the board of directors met
this afternoon with A. F. Paul, the
cmcoraiea rnjiaaoipiuu ptuuBuape
architect, tor the purpose of considering
plana for the development of
the property.
Mr. Paul, who has been in charge ot
some ot the most ambitious undertakings
ot this character In the country,
was enthusiastic about the possibilities
of the site and the members ot
the board of directors are determln
od it shall be given a treatment which
will make it one of the most attractive
places in thla state.
Monday engineers representing tho
Monongahela and Baltimore and Ohio
railroads will begin tho surveys for
the location of the railroad line which
will he run Into the little valley. It
was determined during an inspection I
trip which was made yostorday that
this branch shall be a joint effort and
that work on it will be begun at the
earliest possible moment.
Yesterday's trip over the proposed
line was made by G. B. Obey- superintendent
of tho Monongahela railroad,
K. D. Brady, consulting engineer of tho
same road and Englnoer of Surveys
Talcott of the Baltimore and Ohio and
the officials of the Investment coninanv.
JILL lie FOR
" GERMAN VERSION
Berlin Government May j
Give New Twist to Submarine
Question.
TTly Assnclatvd I'r'sy)
WASHINGTON. Nov. ll.-Stalo department
officials still were awaiting;
today for Germany's version of the destruction
of the British steamer Marina
with loss of American lives. A
news despatch from Athens last night
saying the Greek government had heen
notified that Germany intended to sink :
without warning all ships carrying
aupyitua IU ui?; ?iiiirp ?HN lUKaiui'ii ;
here as of groat importance. So far
ne Is known the UnltPrt States has rereceived
no such notification ami it
is not known whether one has been
sent to other neutrals.
Secretary Lansing said today that
tho United States understands Germany's
pledges not to sink merchant
men without warning and providing
for Batcty of passengers and crew applies
to shipH with defensive armament.
No distinction was drawn in
correspondence between armed and
unarmed ships and tho Stale department
does not accept any contention i
that Gormany's responsibility is limited
to those without armament.
Nevertheless it is admitted that Ger-1
many has always taken a distinct view [
of the status of armed ships and is'
thought probable that site will attempt,
to inject the point into the present;
situation.
"4^ ILLINOIS BANK ROBBED.
BRAIDWOOI") 111.. Nov. 2. ? Four
robbers blew tbo safe In tin; private
bank of W. H. Odell and Co. hero last
night and escaped In an automobile
with $6,000. The men cut all wires
leading into the little village and had
made good their escape before aid
could be summoned.
.
I
City Hall Notes
\ A meeting w ill be held by the Board of.
Affairs on Monday. November 13. .
to decide upon the purchase of the 1
steel cabinet filing cabinets, samples
of which were submitted yesterday to i
me isoaru. it was unanio to doclde
upon what is wanted of the (our samples
on hand and the meeting was post
poncd until the above incutloncd date
J. Walter Barnes, fln&nco commls r
sloner, without whom every Demo- j
cratic campaign is fruitless, is doing
Ills share *o help along the deserving
by maiti'te " few speeches along the 1
lines running Into Fairmont. At Blng- 1
anion last nlglit a big meeting was a
held with six persons present. 1
1
-The final clean up was made today
on State street The workmen will
start tomorrow to clean up everything >
on Oakwood road before the cold ?
t weather sets in for the winter.
OUR MORAL BLIGHT
(An Editorial.)
TIOTiTLY after the opening of the campaign which led tip
Sto the primary election in June it became apparent that
bootlegging was coins on in Fairmont and other towns in
th'- county. The evil increased rapidly and when earnest men
looked about them in search of a means to suppress it they discovered
to their thorough disgust that this particularly offensive
form of jackal lawlessness was being "protected" by a
method none the less effective because it was an implied arrangement
rather than one of the clumsy contracts which are
usually entered into by the beneficiaries of commercialized vice
and crime and officers of the law. It was found that the county
officers who are charged with the duty of enforcing the laws
had adopted r "hands off" policy while people prominently
identified with Gang government in Marion county took advantage
of technicalities in the laws and by personally going on tbe
bonds of bootleggers, or procuring others to become bondsmen,
snvi'fl 1'l'nm i?nmlum miniclimnnt ?ur*K r?(Vnn/l<?rw unln.>lr?.
enough to be arrested in spite of the immunity which those engaged
in the illicit traffic enjoyed. The eases were appealed, j
and that appears to be the end of the matter so far as the
courts are concerned.
It speedily became known that this effective arrangement existed.
Tlih word was passed in circles where it was a matter
of interesting news that Fairmont was wide open, and the effect
was soon apparent. Drunken men and courtesans began
to appear on the streets in such numbers as to attract the attention
of the most heedless. Humors that gambling was going
on with little or no attempt at concealment went the rounds
and those with an inclination to play experienced no trouble
in finding places where they could gratify their gaining passion.
At first men smiled when the subject eame up for discussion.
Many of thorn agreed that "the hoys"' would have to be given
a little rone at election time. But tinallv the smiles disnnnear.
I - 1 1
(id. "The hoys" luid taker so much rope as to be out of hand.
Several sections of the city became moral plague spots. The
Mayor and the Prosecuting Attorney publicly confessed their
inability to cope with the situation, and the white men who began
by shielding bootleggers found themselves in a position
where they had to take orders from, and become lackeys for,
blacks whose lawless acts make their mere presence in the community
an offense. Fairmont was wide open with a vengeance.
For all practical purposes a community which prides itself upon
its culture and the intelligence of its people was being run not
from the city hall, nor yet from the Watson building, but from
the dives on Jackson street. And every one knew it?including
girls of tender years going to the public schools.
For this humiliation ,this menace to the moral welfare of the
coming generation. Fairmont and Marion county is indebted
to the intellectual poverty and moral obliquity of Gang government.
There may be people who thmk-tlje town and the county
will be "cleaned up" after the election, but it cannot be dono
unless there are sweeping changes among city and county* officers.
Those in office now have surrendered to the vicious element.
All experience in municipal government in this country
indicates that such an abdication of moral and police authority
is irrevocable. Try as it may this community will never retrnee
its steps until there is a thoroughgoing hoilseclcnuing in
the Court house and in the City hull.
And if that liotisccleaning does not come soon all the ground
gained by the splendid campaign for state wide prohibition
will he lost. For weeks factory managers have been complaining
thai the drink evil has become worse'than it was when we
had saloons. Men are losing time because of drunkenness and
the quality of their work is deteriorating. Worse yet, mere
hoys, yielding to the temptation which ease of access provides,
are becoming whiskey addicts and in danger of growing up to
became public charges.
This condition which is susceptible of proof at any time and
_? ....... ?... ...i?.... - ... - i?i.i- 1
#ii I>1 <i<:i ?;ci (i,v r?Mii^i?5*?iiiicui? wucif a cuildlUiTHlJIC numorr
of men and hoys arc employed, puis the question ol' how they
arc going to vote on the counly ticket nest Tuesday squarely
up to every foe of liquor and every t'riend of clean government.
Eternal vigilance is the price of freedom from the destruction
of manhood and the debauchery of womanhood by liquor. The
county and the city governments have capitulated to booze,
booze in its most insidious and demoralizing form. Arc the
good people of the city and county going to condone this action
and continue the Gang in office, or are they going to vote for
the Kepublican candidates!"
This is not a partisan question. It has nothing to do with the
tariff, or with the foreign policy of the federal government.
It does not even touch the government at Charleston. It is
simply a question of whether booze and vice or clean citizenship
shall rule in this county; whether our boys shall be protected
from body wrecking and soul destroying liquor and our
girls from contact with a brazen underworld or abandoned to
their fate in a community that is so contemptible, so devoid of
raorai noer, i-aui 11 nas given up tne struggle to rule Itself.
Tuesday will tell the talc. And every man who has the right
to vote should remember that he has an individual responsibility
in the matter. When it conics to voting for county officers
he must cither vote for dcccucy or the other thing. There is
no middle grouud.
Wonderful Increase j Hughes Campaigning
In Ore Shipments On Familiar Ground
(By Associated Press) (By Associated Press)
DULUTU. Nov. 2.?An increase of BUFFALO, Nov. 2. ? Charles E.
noro than 11,000,000 tons In the ship- Hughes came back to his home state
lent of iron ore to this port is shown of New York today to wind up hie
n reports for the season ending No- presidential campaign. His program
member 1 as compared with record of today carries him over familiar camlie
corresponding season last night, paigning ground from Batavla in the
ro November 1. 1015, shipments western section of the state through
mounted to 2fl.34B.174 tons while dnr- central New York to Albany where
ng the 1916 season 40,608,767 tons he will speak tonight.
lave gone forward.
I FAMINE PRICES FOR BREAD
Crush the laxeating Democratic ring Helena. Mon., Nor. 2.?Bread sold
>J> electing the Republican count\> offi- '.'"J8/ or }?" f?r
* * " 25 cents. The price had been 10 cents
ers. ; or 3 i&tfk Stnta
DEMOCRATS TRY
TO BUY ELECTION
Alien Corruptionists Are
Trying to Put Over
Cornwell.
(Special Dispatch to West Virginian!
CLARKSBURG, W. Va.. Nov.
The public Is warned to be on the lookout
for vote buyers In a statement (riven
to the press today by Joseph Molt
Gaines, chairman of the Republican
State committee. It read:
"We are In receipt of information
that vote buyers representing the
Democratic party organization, generously
supplied with money from the
immense slush fund raised by the sinister
influonr'pn tmnlciner th?? canillriocv
of John Cornwall. are abroad in various
counties. They are. according to j
our information, strangers to the people
of the county in which they aro
attempting to corrupt the individual
voter. They are supplied with a list
of names of voters in the county who
arc marked "doubtful." In Preston
and other counties which give largo
Republican majorities they are al t
ready hard at work in an effort to buy!
votes for Cornwcll.
"It appears that Wilson. Chilton and
all other Democratic candidates are
not mentioned by them as part of the
consideration in their proposition to
buy votes it is Cornwcll only. The
punnn gcncrviy. alio lovai itcpuuil-1
cans particularly are warned to keep a
sharp lookout for these political criminals
and wherever possible demand |
that local authorities enforce the law
against them.
The contest between the parties
now Is settled down to one thing, and
that is the governorship. The Democratic
organization is now putting
their plan to buy enough votes to
"put Cornwell across" Into effect in
many sections of the state. Beware
of these vote buyers is the earnest
admonition of this committee."
Conley Child Buried
at Mannington
MANY ATTENDED FUNERAL SERVICES
WHICH WERE HELD
THIS AFTERNOON.
The funeral of Terrence Jcsepb Conley,
10 year old son of Mr. and Mra. T.
J. Conley. of Mannington, was held
this afternoon at three o'clock from
the residence and services were conducted
by Rev. H. D. Clark, of Mannlngton.
Interment was) made in the
Mannington cemetery.
The boy had been 111 for several
weeks am! died Tuesday evening. He
is survived by his parents and the following
sisters and brothers, of which
he was the youngeBt: Hazel, Florence,
Marie, Dorothy, Gladys and Robert.
A large number of friends of the
family attended the funeral services
today and extended their sympathy to !
the bereavod relatives. Terrance ,
was a bright and well liked child and
his early death is regretted bv all who j
knew him.
u.TcMo
M_B MARRED
Engine Trouble Compelled
Carlstrom to Descend
at Erie.
?'By Associated Prcsst
ERIE, Pa.. Nov. 2.?Aviator Victor
Carlstrom. who is flying front Chicago
to Notv York, landed In this city at
11:26 a. m. today because of engine
trouble, but threby establishing a now '
American non-stop record.
Erie is Just half the difference Charlstront
set out to cover. The aviator
was flying about 7 miles south of Erie
when a pipe became loose on the engine
and he made for this, city so he
could obtain necessary mcchanlal assistance.
lie landed easily in a large open
flold at 30th and Beach street and
Jumping from the car at once begau <
I_. TT? ..I.I l.? JOI.L1..I
ruimirn. ii? POIU IIU wan ueusuiuu
with the flight an far as he had gone
and although disappointed because of
slight engine trouble he deemed it
advisable to take no unnecessary
chances as he was very anxious to get
to New York by 6 this evening. The
engine was doing all he bad expected
of It In the way of speed, the distance
between Cleveland and Erie having ]
boon covered In 30 minutes.
Wilson Busy Today
in the Metropolis ;
I By Associated PreiiO
NEW YbRK. Nov. 2. ? President
Wilson arrived here this morning from
his campaign trip of the state. He
was taken by auto across town to the
East river and wont aboard the government
yacht Mayflower.
When the President reached the
Grand Central station to Bpend his only
day of campaigning in New York city :
with four speeches on his program for 1
tho aftomoon and evening he, was 1
cheered by a large group of railroad I
men some of them carrying American <
Hags.
>? i
The Times says the County 1
Home Is self sustaining. Then
who gets the $14,000 the Democratic
campaign pamphlet says the
home costs the taxpayers each I
DEMOCRATIC
POLITICIAN
10 ADDCOTCn
10 HIMOILU
? i
Own Party Would Not Stand
for Roughneck
Tactics
SLUGGED T CANDIDATE
Grant District Man Was a:
Victim of An Unusual ,
A ecunIf
?
Anv citiren who is curious enough }
to make a few iwiuiries about the facts
behind a commonplace assault charge
that has been made against Lawrence
llulbert, ofticial court reporter of this
county. In Justice Mttsgrove's court I
will learn a story about campaigning
methods which will at least Interest
him if it does not excite any more
poignant emotion.
If the matter ever comes to an open
hearing on November it. tlie time set
by the justice, the story unfolded will
bo something like this: The other dayAssistant
Prosecuting Attorney Miller.
Constables Harry Conner and Har
ry Shultz and Stenographer Lawrence
Holbcrt were out in Hrant district glad
handing about and trying to find out
what the sturdy yoenien are thinking
about the parlous political situation.
In that r-niiran nf (Imo lhatr orrlvorl
at tho home of Homer Morris, who is
running for Justice of Ihe peace on the
Republican ticket in that district. Morris
came down to the fence bordering
the public road and a little triendly
conversation ensued during which
some of tho men In tho automobile informed
Morris that they were bound
for a cider.mill on a nearby farm. And
as a matter of fact that was what tool,
them into that particular neighborhood.
When the party drove up Morris noticed
that one of tho men in the auto
was Holbert with whom he has had
some business dealings that did not
end happily, hut he did not pay much
attention to the man at the time, in
fact he lost sight of him altogether until
some one hit him a resounding
whack b ob iud. he _left. oar. -Then before
he "wont out" he saw Holbert
leap for a seat in the automobile. Subsequently
ho picked up a good size
stone which lie Is confident was not
at the spot before.
Morris's injury is quite a severe one
and has been causing bim considerable
pain and nervousness since. While ho
was making up his mind what to do
about the matter he received a summons
to attend the hearing of llolhcrt
an the assault charge before Mangrove
A littlo inquiry put him in poB'
session of what brought that about.
It seeniB that when the pnrty got
hack to town the story leaked out and
got to the ears of men influential in
the Democratic organization. Then
what might be justly called a scene
ensued. There was sharp language all
around and the prosecution of llolhcrt
was decided upon. The complaint
against him was made by Assistant
Prosecutor Miller, who was in the car
when the incident happened and in all
probability was an eye wltneaii to It.
The warrant was served hy Constable
Conner and Shultz went on the bail
bond. Quite a nice little family affair.
Miner Shoots at
Passing Trolley Car
JOE KLOPSIC IN JAIL GAVE NO EXPLANATION
FOR HIS
ACTION
Joe Klopslc. No. 224. working at
Middloton mines, is in the county Jail
here awaiting a hearing on a charge
of shooting at a passing streot car
last night. He left the car at Chiefton
and according to Conductor William
Arnott pulled out a revolver and
started plugging way at the rear o?
the car.
From Crlefton the man started to
walk to Mlddleton. In the meantime
constables from Fairmont and Monongah
were started toward Chiefton.
Upon their arrival there they
were told that their man was wall*-.
Ins to Mlddleton. They overtook him
and brought him to jail hero. He carriod
a fully loaded 3S calibro revolver.
Date for his trial has not yet been
Bet. The foreigner gave no explanation
for his action. He and the conductor
had no words previous to tho
shooting. i
Steel Trust Common j
Is Again Aviating |
(By Associated Press)
NEW YORK. Nov. 2,?United Stales
Steel common shares sold at the new
high record of 122V1 shortly after tho 11
opening of today's market, tho stock j!
being at absorbed in large individual .
lots.
This exceeds previous maximum by
one-halt point. It also passed the proterred
stock which sold at 122.
NOR8E STEAMER LOST.
LONDON, Nov. 2.?The sinking of
the 8,000-ton Norwegian steamship
Del to la imported by Lloyds,
WOMAN SUFFRAGE J
m COLOHED VOTE
Preponderance of White
Vote Would Be Increased
in West Virginia
(Special DispntPh to West VirginiarO !
MOROANTOWX. Nov. 2?It was
stated at Suffrage State Headquarters
today that the usual roorback which
the people opposed to equal suffrage
always circulate during the closing
hours of a campaign, has made its appearance.
The speakers and last min- ,
ute circulars of the Antts are going
all over the state seeking to raise the
race issue and thus coerce the white]
voters inio casting their ballots
against the suffrage amendment.
The Slate Suffrage Campaign rom '|
mittee Mated today that these circulars
and speakers are saving there
are 9000 more colored women in West
Virginia than there arc men of voting
age.
This is a most palpable falsehood as
is proved hy the last I'nlted States
Total N'egrocs in W. Vu 64.173
Total males over -1 22.070 J
Total women over 21 15,114 Excess
of men over women
over 21 7,556
Yet the men arc already voters. It
will he seen at once that by adding
tho white women to the electorate the
proportion of white voters is largely
increased. The actual census figures
are as follows:
To every 100 male colored voters
will he added but 66 women voters.
To every 100 white male voters will
ho added 94 tj women voters.
At present there are 12Vj white voters
to every colored voter.
If women vote there will he 1 tlV4
white voters to every colored voter.
U 0. HAS STRIKE
ON MRS HERE
Machinists Helpers and Laborers
Want a Better
Understanding.
1
ft developed this morning that tho t
raise in wages and settlement of other (
differences between the Baltimore and
Ohio and the employes of the common 1
labor grade in this city which it was <
announced was made some time ago 1
was so far from being satisfactory that'
tho men quit work this morning to en- :
force their demand for a better uu- 1
dcrstanding. 1
The matter waB taken up with Division
headquarters about two months r
ago but while an Increase was agreed i
to the men never got the money. Again <
tho mutter was called to the alien- I
tlon of Superintendent Scott and he s
promised to come hern this morning I
to talk the matter over, instead he I
sent Master Mechanic Anderson and
the night men quit at 6 o'clock and J
the day men walked out at 8:15. All (
the boilerutakers' assistants, macliin- (
ists assistants and other men of that (
grade iu the Fairmont yards arc in- t
volved. 1
Efforts are being made to adjust the
matter. The men now get from 19 to
21 cents per hour and nothing extra
for overtime. They want 25 cents, j
a nine-hour day and time and half-time j
for overtime and work on Sundays f
and holidays.
Democrats Attempt ?
County Speaking;
The success of the ltepublican conn !
ly speakers campaign has led the Dent-1
nnrnttc committee to attenint a similar
plan hill so far all of their speakers i
have met with disappointment, l^ast'
night J. Walter Barnes was sent to
Rlvesvllle. ,
When he arrived at that town no one j
was on hand to hear him except the
committee members of that section.
These wont out among the residents
of the town and roused lueui from
their Deds and after heroic efforts obtained
an audience of 13 persons, including
themselves and the wives and'
families of five voters of Bivesvlllo.
The preceding night Mr. Barnes L
went all the way to Blngamon where j ho
gave an address in the school house
to six Hepublican voters. No Democrats
except himself wore present. Tonight
Mr. Barnes wi'-l go to Eldora j
The Weather
West Virginia?Fair tonight and i
Friday not much change in temperature.
LOCAL WEATHER READINGS
F. P. Hall, Observer
Temperature at 8 a. m. today 3S.
Yesterday's weather clear; temperature,
maximum 84; minimum 33; preclpltatlon
none.
! TO ALL SUBSCRIBERS OF WEST I I
! VIRGINIAN AT BELLVIEW AND f'r
! BARNSTOWN.
i Our eollortor will, call on you j
! November 1, 1916 arid collect for j
! tho month of October. j
M. D. PRICKETT.
,
LABORERS
28c Per Hour
New Normal School grounds,
Locust Avenue.
CAMPBELL MlS
WIH SHIM 11 I
mil VUUULUU 111 -v|
pro |
3ays Democratic Voters at?
Indignant Over Gang 'M
Practices.
ran meetSgs tonight 1
Uood Speakers Scheduled
for Montana and Colfax
Begin at 7:30.
Ex-Senator Alex. R. Campbell. Of rffM
Hilo county, who has been stamping
Marlon county the past week on behalf . .
if the Republican party, says that the ichool
house meetings iu the Tarloas _ , Y>"i
listrictu have been more successful
ban had been expected.
"Every place I go." aays Senator
Campbell, "there is usually a good '.
ipriukling of Democrats in the audi- ^.3
Mice iitul invariably half a dozen or ,' %
iwirn nf tnnlt ormm.l .*?? ? *?- >Ah9
- ... ??.?. niuillllt IIUIII MMPI '
Jmtr Itcpubican neighbors leave and . 7>"
hen conic forward and shake me by
he hand and say that they have be- :nmu
converted.
"I had Imagined." said Senator ) 'i?
rampbell. "that this county would be ifs
i Democratic stronghold from the fact
hat the statu headquarters are here,
mt throughout the county It Is very
nuch the otlior way. Democrats Who
rnvo voted a straight ttcket all their
Ives have told mo since I have been
n this county that they could no lone-r
stand fur lh? manner In which the 'pi
'gang" is insulting mo taxpayers in \j3$
he rural districts and that next Tubs-,
1,1 V tllnv illtmill to iiSintwtiitjM- ,Ua I ?- "'''-'-m
ice thiii is ilttc."
Senator Ciuiipliell is ono of the most ' 'W
lolightfiil speakers that lias ever ap- .'.:S5
teured ill this enmity and nt bis every
ippearanen lie bus Iteou greeted with ''"iSs
jooil turnouts of the voters. His talk
s not uf the stereotyped campaign va- -vj
lety but is inlerusting and filled with -ife
lltle liuniuu anecdotes that charm all
vho liear him. Ho is vory quick wit- ' j?g
cd and no unexpected question baa .3
iver yet gone unatiswerod.
Following is a list of the school , J/<
louse meetings yet to he held in the Tfr'.S
-ounty and the speakers for each place. y yS
Sack begins at 7:30 p. m.:
Thursday. November 3, Montana?
11. C. l-ougli, it. J. Conley. Confax? /
it iv i ? t ?*? .-.aaai
ueuvu, u. ?*. tinwVD, ? mullII Qg
llcCray, A. O. Stanley.
Friday, November 3, Benton's For- >|jS!
y?Harry Shaw, A. O. Stanley, Brooks 'ijtm
Intchinson lluntmond?J. A. Mere'
Ilth, U. J. Conley. Bsrnstown?W. 8." .JjM
Iteredttli. M. \V. Ogden. Paul Arm- "ifcJE
.trong, J. M. Jacobs. Dent's Run? '
1. M. Showaltor, M. C. Lough, French ; ^
Saturday, November 4, Catawba?R. f'ZsSi
I. Conley, J. A. Meredith. Kldora?M. >'.w
3. Lough, 15. M. Showaltor, French Mc3ray,
Paul Armstrong. Samaria "'jA
Shaw school)?A. O. Stanley, Harry
5haw. J. M. Jacobs, Brooks S. HutchGENERAL
BOND HERE
Adjutant General John C. Bond, ot , ^
he West Virginia National Guard,,Is rAi&gM
n Fairmont this afternoon visiting . SK?
rlends.
Put some nch> blood in the counts Nagg
fovcrnmcril and stop the favoritism. vS8
Elect Republican candidates.
DR. M. S. HOLT ;||
U1 VV toiull
Socialist Candidate for Governor
will address the voters of Fairmont
and vicinity at the Court House ;
TONIOHT at 7:110.
Read his challenge issued to the ' '-S?
candidates or other parties. Cosm 'A
and hear him repeat that challenge . ?8H
tonight at 7:00.
""notice to [m
TAVDA vrnc I
i s-w\rs\ i n.i\?3 | f?E|
The 1916 tax books are now com* -'-.rr
pleted anil ready (or collection. The
books for all Districts will be found {|?H
at the Sheriff's Office dally until 'rlj
Nov. 30th, the close o( the discount
period except Mannlnyton district, %>38b
which will be found at the Bank AsK
of Mannington. Please pay today V'TS
as 1 havo more time to wait on yon. '$$
now than later.
C. D. CONAWAY, Sheriff .V||
" NOTICE '|||
City taxes are now due
anrl navabla at. tbn f.ifxr' feiSiHHi
Treasurer's Office, Monroe
street. A discount of M
will be allowed.
J. R. MILLER, fM
Treasurer. ;
