h IXC. NEW SERIES VOL. LXIII.
BURLINGTON, VERMONT, THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 2
NUMBER 18.
, H)1G. uxo'-)
- " ' '0V '
.SOU REGISTERS
lOLEMN PROTEST
(s (o Making Hay wilti
hss of Lives for Political
Purposes.
ME NOW TO HE CALM.
lionlil UlHfiii ll MTiIrs Hh
.Itllo I'lirlNnnxliln of I'crlliig
lis I'nsHllilr, lie Say i.
Iln, X 1. Prosiihiil Wil
ti -day ii , i-ti rid "ii solemn pro-
liu. ln i "i u- 'it the interna-
ril i'ii i i
I uri :h
tho nation for ptir
V. n Willi ilo this, 111'
iti'l will not i ('Kurd as
ceil most Inns In vol v
li"H'nl not ! draggid
I tii i i
Hi .1'
inn n 1 vi
n tic
Prr id v i - protests wore grectid
I n oil ni plnusc He said ! would
nsi it ili-it Hi' Democratic partv
d f r any tub partisan iurpo-o.
csidi nt crttli is. d "nun whii in the
cf tin1 mnM critli al relationships,
tails (f v.hhh tiny do not know,
play with il" loss o( lives of
an citizens i'ii in order that
my triaii n doniistic political ad-
if en ii n pi'i ''Ii here, President
w ill ! i.i 1 1
i xcocu n ly mipoitnnt that thin
I mid d sou-- Its utlnttvi with
Ilr . irl in li" if li'i'llne as pos-
bro i t 1 olfnirs were novrr so
Hv 'i t nh nt if I may so express
'I cy iir. at this moment. There
ir a I'irr whrn the determination
doiiii tlo questions bore u more
rdn'mn to tin determination of
lati r i to othi r countries. There
w i ' lime when the discussion of
n iffu rs needed to be more Imii
n ii th ir .uj-'h'y, more calmly
ted " u new There Is exeiti meat
i in 'In w rid There is unre
d in ml i- noueh, there is covet
s r I i ur enough. Anieilea has,
say, glvin i rninlsc In the world
hr will I ii U i thing wltliout the
I tin' Iris n Ii rinined the alfaiis
r in n 1 v nit yon to let me,
will, gv y i n a few sentences
'i ( f th h i i inestions we have
M tt i in Hi e umtry.
an' y il n' n that the Held o(
il net rn i.s vid' mm? about us In
that f Irly daunts the judgment of
tful mi o We used to think that
v the Hi 111 of legislation tolerably
lined, and our text writers weir
drilni that Held with some di-gnr
lldeiiC! But you perceive, I take
granti-d, tliat that Held has nut
!
really widi ned, but Indeliuitely
d Thrn area creat many social I In
is now with which leirislalion has j
I, Airy profound and radical nt'os- ,
Tin rr in aiif-dions of justice.
lirr nil tint ( vi n ol moral health.
tb lb i trs that America is bctnn
i pirciH is that a court of law,
Ian pli, is in t necessarily a court
licr 1 r,iy II i s with all formal rr- i
r i precssKm which I l-itit; at-'n i
i i n fi ; kii of the law hat I 1
lis ilu, Law too sildom hn.- any 1
i it, too iclduni has any bowrls of
"Sinn, too seldom has tiny much !
titles of perception "
f
ALLY AT MIDDLEBURY
Int'o nt Ttn Hall In itilrrssii
riiator . I. IMllIimliam ami
John T. Cusliliiir.
llebury, Nov 1 A rally attended
een I&O and 200 persons was held
lit at tho town hall, addressed by
illiam P Dllllim'ham and .lohn
IhiiiK, (ddor of the St Albans Mis-
JttrlKr John i-ks iiresided and
liced the srieakt-r.-.
ICiishint 's alldrcs was preliminary
It of Si i i' ,r nillinidinin. He ills-
St ili i ui cominentliiK on the
Irats aiiparu.t w lllhiKiiejia for
lin's ih (.Hon us xovi rnur, assorting
lellef in the iri-int day prosperity
.(l's iiaradisi and piotosliiiK hillet
doctiine that American citizens
havi American protcctlun.
Iioi I)i bnpli.im said the Democratie
i tree party. It always has
lind always will remain so. It ha.-i
d in adopting tariff ."-chedules
lit heanni-s. without Information
ithout the aid of a taiiff commis
ppolnted to si i are in a rcientllle
r facts rei.itll. In protection, and
find in in ml democratic leKlsla-
kho jirovl Ion for a bo-called tariff
Ission,
laa Iscn adopted upon tho recom
Ition of tho most astute politician
licrlca to-day, the present occupant
Whito House, but bear In mind
Kct that In a private letter to the
of tho Democratic party In the
of Iteprcsentatlves, Mr. Kitchen
Iprossly declares that the appoint-
I of such a commission will In no
Iffcet tho policy of the Democratic
in Kb tnriff legislation.
t has such a commission been pro
for" Simply to impress tho conn
at the Demod'.itlc party Intend to
Ilr and to acknowledge republican
Ii ve already called ntention to the
hat only under the Payne-Aldrich
If H)0! a tariff hoard was pro-
whioh did work that cannot be
Ized by any man, democratic or
llir.-m Ha work was of extreme
because of the scientific manner
llch It was conducted and the re-
Iwhlch were reached
't forgot the fact that this hoard
Ibnllshed by tho Democratic party
en March h if II. and the present
thfro have been substant tally .-i
votes upon propositions to estah-
larlff boards in which the drmo
I have voted with substantial una-
,-iiralnst tho propositions.
Ire can ho no qiinsiiuii inai inn
as a. party, has been opposed to
ironosltlon ami that in the aunp
If such a provision at this time, it
ted upon policy rather than upon
I oh
t ot nf taki n when I make this
ion Hi Id the provision nn me
tit tariff cuiniulHsloii, If you ploase
II tut what It means. Senator
nn offi ten an amenuuu-iii m n
irondliif? that the commission
lappo-rted should study and report
Inuri is the dlfferenco in tlm cost
liimoditleH of the different classes
Iced in the 1 nltcd States and thosi
i d In fori Ik'n (Ountrli-H. That Is
we intiHt know if we are to adopt
Iteitivi svsliiii Wlutt was tne
l-lvri" d(mor,'it In the Srnati
i, ottd ,r i. nst the propot ition,
$10,000,000 CARGO
BROUGHT TO U. S.
BY DEUTSCHLAND
Consists of Dyestnt't's and Drug's Capt. Koenig
Says the Bremen Has Been Given Up as Lost
Probably Struck a Mine Deutsch land
Only Other Submersible Built for Trade Pur
posesWill Make Return Trip in Two Weeks.
New London, Conn.. Nov 1 iit-av inn (
stormy sens and the entente him l.iule tlie
Herman undersea fi i-iuliti-r I iciitsi liland
nas again iirniighl a aluablu cat-no to tin- '
i mien r-mtes. Ten million dollais' worth
of dveslulfs and druns and "po-iilhly
stocks, honils and precious stones" are In
the submarine, to-day declared (.'aptalii
Paul Koenln, who had surrce,c.i In atr-im
eiosshiK the Atlantic, where the Herman
mei-ebiint sulimarliio Ihemen hml failed
The DeutRchlanil. nccoidhiK to her run
tain. Is at present the only ve-cl of the
(Jriinati suhmarliii! inerchant lleei. The
liremen. which started a voai,-e iroin thu
cit, after which she was named, on Am.
(rust "ii, be said, has been Kiven up as lost
He thoiiKht she 'must have struck a
mine," but added, "she has not fallen a
victim to this almost hlockinle. am
h-nre of that. Nor has there been any
otlier submersible yet built for trade
poi-es. he said, except these two.
pur-
"I must keep up this trnfllc abme for
the piesent, that Ii, tin- I leiit.n liland
mubt," he said. "In u fortnluht I shall
be none. I nope to return befoie the
tnd of the year."
It was possible, the navigator stated,
that otlier merchant submarines would
be built by that time.
In a summary of his vovntre. lust com
pleted, Captain KopiiIk said it wns "A !
juli t trip."
I he Deiitschland on this trip varied'
the monotony of Its saillnir under water
or on the surface with occasional dodmis
beneath essels Identitli'd as warships o( 1
belliKc'ent natlonaIit, or thoiitfht to he. .
Seven times. Captain KoenlK said, he 1
manoeuvii il In this way. The last tlniu '
was off Nantiuket yestrnlay, whrn he1
Hunted a four funnrled steamer and 1
due lirneath her. The storms iuve us
more trouble than this Mi-cnlled
hloikade," he eoitlnueil. "W'e weie beset
by heavy southwest sales for ,t, vs. and
they were with us most of ihe way
aeioss."
The superstructure of the nnitschland
WW llrlltrll by thr blows III the sens, but
sh- suffrird no severe damage, her coin
tuander said. ,
U(iLinir Iheimn on October 1. the
Peutschbind had moved only a short dis-
tnnce nut oi the harhor when she lame
collision with a tuir which was "so
foolish as to run into nt:." snld Captain
Kocnl' TIk lleut'H blntid wns forced t.i
n t urn for repairs
Tin i nturc was heKun at,ain on Octolur
e CARGO READY
FOR DEUTSCHLAND
Submersible Will Carry Home;
Rubber and Surgical
Supplies.
New London. Nov. 1 Tho tirst inti
mation of the near approach of the Ger
man submarine merch intman Duotsch- j
land came at 12-OTi o'clock this morn- ;
liif; when she was picked up by the!
searchlight of the Kovernmeiit dredge ;
tlantic which was working off llast-i
I'i'ii Point. The Atlantic sent the news
by wireless to the T. A. Scott Co., which
arrantjeil to meet the submarine with
the tutr T. A. Scott, Jr. iln hoard the
tUR were Captuln I". Hinscli ol the
Hastern I'orwardiiiK Co. Dr K C
Chlpman, city health ofricer: In. P.. K. ,
lilack, health inspector, and .Irremhih'
Dillon, connecteil with the local cus
toms office. ,
As the t il 4T drew near, Captain Koe-
nit; slioilteJ a wrlciimc and invited the
party lo come aboard, lie said his
en w lour officers anil J.i men were
ill cNci'llent health. All but two of the
clew weie on tile Delltscnianil on ner
Hist trl.
A rctuin cai'Ko for the Doutsrhlanil con-
elstuiK mainly of crudo rubber and suivi
cal biipplles, valued at more than $.Vl,-
Ki, has been ready on the pier of the
Kahtcrn l-'orw aiding company for several
weeks. It Is Mined In a bin iron shed.
Tho Deutsihkuid Is securely berthed
beie The Ninth Herin.in l.lnyd .steiun
shlji Willohad is made fast to cluster pil
ing at a iliMance of about do font from
the pier, the stern of the ship Is hard and
fast aitainst the New London bank of
the Thames river and in such a position
that with the ship on one side, the pier
on the other and tho bank nt one end, an
open waler spaen ,V by IIX.I feet is made
enclosed on threw sides. To complete tho
enclosuie a lloatlnf,' (,'alo built on pontoons
I.s made fast to a piling set at tlie bow of
the Willehad.
Hiiards from the crew of tho Willeluul
and piivato detectives employed by the
company k(cp all visitors at a distance.
To prevent Hie submarine beinK reached
by water from under the piers, the pilliu;
directly around the reserved space I.s
heavily wiied and Ihe wires electrically
connected with an alarm Rons In the of-
lice of the company
Tlie huildiiiK of the pier Fhed and the
assemblliiK of the carK that will he
toadeil aboard the Pe-Mschland for her
reiiirn trip were done In Krcnt haste after
tho departure of the DeuLsc'ilund from
Baltimore on her first voyane,
Tho hrltujlntr of tho Herman Htoamcr
Wlllehod from Roston to act as a mother
ship for the inerchant mibmnrino was
avcompllf h(d wltliout incident,
r.AItTHQUAlCI3 IN HLKN'S FALLS.
Hlena h'alls, N. V Nov. 1, An earlli
niiako shock which lasted several seconds
was felt in sections of northern New
York to-night. At lids place, which ap
parently was ihe center nf tho disturb
ance, houses were shaken so severely
that dishes were thrown from shelves and
pictures from walls. No serious damiiKo
has been reporli'd, however.
Athens. Oct SI, via lmdnn, Nov. 1
The fi.'n-ton Hreek men hanlmnn Klkl
Is.-.iiias wa' torpedoed HiIh afternoon
near whcio the An'hellkl was Mink.
in, nnd Ihe engines after being slnrtul
,,n tlint day, were nut stopped until the
I leiilselihinil came Into the slip picpared
lor her here.
"A heavy soulbwest uale was on," he
said, "when we went through the Xorth
sr.i, ei-..sslni, iKtween Pcotlnnd and lb"
Orkniy I'-lamb. in tin I'nir rhannel.
look th" slnitii.it coiiim' on the t-li rl lor
.V' W I.oiulmi "
DEUTSCHLAND SAILED
MOSTLY ON SURFACE
Trm el
Than
iniiler Wntci
Mill Miles.
More
Xew l.oiidiiii. Nov. 1. Captain ICoenltr
said to-nlidil Hint the nrutfichland
H i
kept under wa on the surface duriiiK'
most of the disl urbani e. So seerr was
the stiii m thai at tunes the submarine
made only .1 mile an hour headwav. In
all sh was delayed Ibiie days, the cap
tain llcupd.
DillltiK Ihe ttii
Peutschland travel
than int) miles, "fi."i,
tain KortdK stud.
,ide. You con Judtfi
of I.OT'I inlhs, the
'd undei water less
I should think," Cap
They call It a block
how much it blocks."
the
N
Deutsdilaiul skipper exclaimed.
Ither C"ptniii Koeniir nor Paul I,
H
llilki ii, vlee-pi. sldent
Fiirwiirdim,' eoiniiaiiv.
1 ' iitschhind's carto is
irm the details of her
of the Mastrrii i
to widen 'he
eiiiisin''d. would
caruo. Mie enr-
rn d diue.s nnd
en h "Ihiiilubt'
lyestuffs, they said, and '
she inlifhl lime ihoiird
.liwils nnd sirurilies. In wrluhi. tin
(f, I i'ii !il.irr..ir.ll...l '.111 VC1,.. ikn I
lir.iUL-ht ii o.-irki t nf iillieiiil iiinll f.ir llir !
ilennaii auibasKadnr, and some private1
ciirii'spondrnce. !
lU'liorts of a (oiilllct between the I
nciitschhitid's oillcrrs and the naval olll
crrs at tills poit orr dlMnantlrnirnl of
the sulili, urine's wllrlrss uppaiatus ill I
kei plntr with the Bovi riur.cnfs neutrality j
re'.'iiltiiions, wen denied both by Captain
Ko"ii!k nnd Communder Stcrllnc: of tbei
niinl .station h"re. "The wireless of the
Ii utsehlnnil is sealed," the latter said.
!'r Heortte Aim ns. an attache of the
Herman imb.-usy. cnnii In rr to-nlht, he'
said, tn (itu.'rnudtiii Caiitnin Koi'iut," on'
hi- leuirn to tin i -.lnni-. Ii was toiced i
lo di'lu;' Ins A.'rrituit,'' whin In learned1
the n n-iK.it' r .'!. in 1"" Ainba-O'li'r
mi P rnsli'tlf n iiiul ifiinni!; hen i nrly
ni xl week, thr nttuehr slnteil
IS TORPEDOED
Steamer Tried lo Escape Cap-
inin n.l, . -.,,1 C.l. !
vi nil III llj.fillll .tiiij-
niarinc.
London. Nov. 1. The llrilisn steamer
Itowamnoi. , Hum Baltimore to Liver
pool, sunk Inst witk by a submarine,
attcinptiil lo .scape fioin the attacking
undersea boat, nut the latter continue!
to shell the ,-lup after sin- slopp. d, ac
coidliiK to uthdaul.s l rt mi nn mbers of the
crew piocured liy iln- Ainrrican consul at
Llvi rpool. Tin- pnni-ipal detnlls ol the
sinking i-Mracled irom a number of Ihe
allldavits aie us follows.
On October I'll at s ir, h, m. t),,, pteamel
was t:m nubs liom Fnntnet when shells
bi Kan to hurst nboui hir. A moment biter
the lookout ,.,'iw the siibni.-iriiie's helm
put haul upon, hiiiiuiut; the allackinii I
crait directly usiern. ;,uij ( Ui" chase, I
two sin lis stiuck the brldi,!'.
The ursmt iiintliiiied uniil 'i.:.u o'clock,
live or six .shells in Ihe nii-antmie sinking
tilt' stenmer Tin eiiptnui of Hie ltowan
inoic Mopped his eiiBines and holstud sin
Hals thai In- intendril to abandon his ship,
hut thu submarine onilnnei in shell bur
as thu hunts wt re helm; lov.eiod and when
they weie in the waler tl icup.ints
wine dietii'heil b i pmy fioin fallin
shells.
The siibmaiine then beaded for the life-
boats, while one nt Its olllcers shouted,
"not out of our way or we'll run you
down," but swerved when near tho boats,
passed them nnd then turned back, tlm
commander calliiit- out:
"1 am sorry foi you but you lire very
foolish. You will probably all drown."
Tlie inptain nt the Itowanmore was nr.
deriil on board Hie submarine but de.
dined to o!e. ultboiiKh the command
was thrice uhen until a levnlver was
pointed at Ids bead Alter Hie captain
laid 1 n taken on board tlie submarine
i II red a torpedo .it tlie Itowiiiiiiiiue, which
1 Klll.l.- 't'l.rt ..i... .1 , .
, i inr iikii toinilllTKftl Ullll
was not seen acain About thiee hours
later the crew was picked up
Two white Americans were on bnaid.
They weie H orue .Murphy id Hrocktoii
and Albert Sessler.
"Pastor" Russell Dead.
Canadian, Tesas. Nov I -Charles T-i.'J
Itltssrll. kiiou ii iik "Ii..li,,.'i r... t,
I ; ' " ' o...i I.USM , up
j Indrpi'iident minu-ti r. ulitor of The Watch
.Tower and promitn til author of studies
mi uie si i i.i lire- uicil eilerday on
an Atchison, Topeka ,; .Snntn I'e train
en route from L'.s Aimdes to New York.
Heart disease w.is mven as the cuuko.
Pastor ItusM'll ciituiilned of leellni? Ill
after leavinu Los Ansdes, his secretary
said, and gradually (!i, w- worse. Tlie end
came while the train was stoppul at
Pampa. Texas, near here. Tho body is
beliif? sent In Kansas City, Mo.
Pastor llussrll was hum In PIltsburK.
Pa., I'ebruaiy Id, IS.',:. He was piosldcnt
of the Watch Tower llihle and Trait so
cietv of 1 'I'linui'li'ii nlii lli hili.iiti.il i
llihle students' assoclntiitii of London, and
nn reopii s Pulpit association ol New
York
To some people the hardest Ihinii In
the world Is lo spend money, and In
others Ihe hardest is ii"l to spend It, and
ibilvveeii these rxticpu.- an thus, who
find It e.'isv cnoui.'h lo ipi nd i r to save.
I Albany Juutnul.
10II11E
SOMME ARMIES
ENEWFiGHTI
Germans Tenaciously Hold
lies Back except East of
Lesboeufs.
Al-
MUCH ACTIVITY IN EAST.
Itniimmilnns Keep I'p Drive again.!
AllMfro-tiiTlnnlis lit Trimly 1 1 a lllii -Hussions
Mini'. In (inlleln.
lniilon, Nov. :. Hard lightiim Is as:a'n
taking pliiee on the Soniim- float In
Prance, beiweeii the 'titvnte dllles ami
the Herman. Since T'.jr'hiy the p.rttlsh
nnd I-'reiich near Cnur"illetto and on the
Ii Bhoeiifs-iiiieiiih r. fl'oti' and to Ma-
south have breti attinklnK vlolentl.. with
'he 'termaiiii tetincinuBly IioIiUuk tlictn
bite.., eXi ept lo the east of l.eshouiifi,
n ben- i otn .iiiei1 eiilc'il. forces h.i"e
Rained some Ki-nund, .ttid to the west
of Lesboeufs. in tn. St. Ptene Vimst
wood mid ncui' Sallly-Siiilllsel, where, tin;
ini'ii of Heneral l-'ocl- took adilltlonnl Her
man tienches. Hetwcen l.e Purs and
Hiieudei nirt and in the vicinity of the
.(rh'Mibrii irdoiibt the Cienniins are
In n'.'lli I.,. .Iln.j P.itlluli i.klllii,,u
' nil the Tiiiiisylvanla trout the P.ouma
inntis me keeplnif up then drive iiKiilnst
' tlie A iisiro-Hertnans In the Jlul valley hut
I iceinilliiK to PetroKt-ad the Teutons bae
occupied two villains south of the liothen
tburni pass. In the Ptodenl iiass sector
I thr Hermans have potiotr.Uei! Poumaiilan
I positions and cnpturcil ten cannon and
lone 17 machine Rims and also have made
'further pniKrcsH southeast of the ISothen-
'hurni puss.
Attain the Ilussmns have a-ssnmed the
onenslve in Hulli ta nlontt tlie NarayuvKii
liver and In the Michtsouv repion. lierlin
recotds the repulse of live benvy attacks
In Ihe funnel' dlstrb I Mil Petrnurad ail- '
" n uussians u. uie inner zone i
'"'' i een piei'l'ii mini ov sui'ernir n-ie
Ten-
" .
i an weal
nuaiii hamiierin tti,
"I' 'atlons on
tb" Macedonian fionl. but
nevertheless
leirion hae
t lie lit-ltisli In tlie Sti uma I dlebiirv and .Moritnelkr party to Mn
taken Ilarakll-Ay.umii from I bile, Ala . arrived homo Sun lav niudit
the ItultT.'irlaus. while the Serbs have
made a slight aiHanee on the left hank
of the Crrna liver and also put down an
atluck by the Teiiionie allies nnd made
piisoner of both liulRnrlnns and Hei
inaiif.. With the advent of fine weather In th"
Austio-Itiilliiu theatre aitlllery envaKe
tneiits are belna fo mht all alotiK the line.
Th" liomliardinents aie espeelully violent
e ist of Hmi.ia nni' on the Caiso plmcau.
s rrs'ilt of
otn- amputation
i- i. ii .ii;
w b'-i r t''i r w '
ov b it on"
C.l
i-i-l
I-'i
' r.,i t mi nt onlv
,i , w " i;.H.'d
bet i inl nr. ami
de. 1 1 lis t 'i( I ' ,s
BIN A S1GI
El
STARTS DISCUSSION
W.i.shlni-' ton. Nov 1 - -'o manv .'nn-tlb-tini,'
eh mints have apiiiar.-d so fir
in the destruction of the Itritish ship
Marina by a Hi rinan submarine, w ith
loss of American ll. that the Incident
threatens to fall into a tnlinicil dis
cussion rather than a clean-cut issue
of whether derma n has lolated her
pllllKI'S to the I'llitrll St.ltl-S. It llr-
came i ii i t apimrent to-day, both from
thr attitude of tin- stale department,
and from the dispatches from abroad,
that much which Is rssrntial to a de
termination of the i'i sponslbiliti re
mains tindisi losed, if inilee.l the Pnited
States, Heini.'ii'v or Hre.it llritalti are
in possession ni the lull fa'-ts.
It appeared urt.iin. however. Hint no
move will be made by the Fulled States
until tlie Herman veision of the affair,
as well as that of the destruction of Ihe
lliiitlsh snip Howanmoie. by shell the.
with endannerim: of Americans hao
been si-eured.
The only positive developments tn-dnj
weie the action of Count von Hern
MortT, the Het man ambassador, In asking
bis soVernnien; m forward foil details b
wlieless, und the Issuance of a sta:. in. in
by Secret, irv I.ansinK. Hint the investiga
tion would be In il" wise delayed berausu
thcr is n polltli-ii eiimpaiKU in progress.
iMarina Was Armed.
Washington. Nov 1 'While they
await full detai's of the Marina disas
ter, two outstanding facts attracted tlie
attention of officials
One was the announcement tnat the
Marina was armed with a 1.7 Inch Rim
mounted n-stern. the other wns a news
despatch fiom London, the laimuaKn of
which was rcii.ird as slKiilileant It
said :
"It is roBnrdc'I here :if unite prob
able that the American state depart
ment will inaki still further iniiuiries
with tile object of dellnltelv deterniln
tni; the status of the Marina While It
Is said that she was under private char
ter when slu "-i1 torpedoed, it appears
that the vessel may have (imaped In
admiralty work not Ioiik before"
This was fccnerallv construed as re
lleetlnR some indications of doubt In
London over whether the ship was en
titled to the immunities of a peaceful
merchantman
The I'nlted States government, how
ever, never has altered Its policy of re
Kitr.llhK merchant ships, temporarily in
admiralty service, an merchant ships
still unless thev have bei n actually
taken over by n belllKerent navy and
manned with a "aval crew
Marina's Victims Six.
,.,,, Nov 1 - The loss of American
lives in the slnkbiK Marina was
nuaiii incrciu-ed t" to-dav when Wes
lev l-'niht the American consul at (Juei.ns.
town. IcIcKrniinc" '" -..nr. .-an ein-
,1,., name of another American
nliini'd 11""'. as "le of Hie victims
II.ISP.1
m I'M i: i'iinm
non l Miss This. Cut out ibis slip, en
close live '''"tH '" l"1' V 'Sllnf
iirld vn . Chicano, 111 . wiltini; niir nam,,
d add, ess clearlv. You will lecelvv
eiurn a t it.il i .icknue eiiiil.iuilim Foley's
Ho nev .-mil '"""'l"'d for roK,s.
V , ,i calb.-'tl. ''ablet .1 U n sulll,
van Mem." """' " m (Adv )
i
HAPPENINGS IN
NEWS BY COUNTIES
ADDISON COUNTY
,..... i-iiMtni
A1J JJlJJjllilHJ Jt I .
:in arrant-'cment between tho rcpuh-
and democratic town commit-
ny i
1 1 ran
tees the following tlfkel has been pic's society of the Memorial Ilaptlst
aKrrid upoti and filed for justleeu Church held n wpll-attrndcri Halloween
of tie peine, tr, i,e voted u ion at next sociable In tho church parlors Monday
week's election: Ira. II. I.al'lcui-, .lohn K, eveulnfr. A fine prnttratn was carried
Week", C.eort'o N. Shnmbo, UcorKfi ,t out mid refreshments were served.
Ilodues, Mllo K. Mooic, Pied H. Mtooklns This was also a sort of a communltv
William II. Sheldon. Prod M. I'oote, Clar suclahle ng similar adelctles of thP
cued C. Wells and Albert W. Dickens. No other churches were In attendance.
ehaiiKe Is made In this list of nomlncod ii.mlel Drafjoti has p-"no to liulland.
from tho picsont bonid of justices except Mrs. Huldeon 71. Ahhey has returned
a substitution of the name of Mllo i. from HurllnKton, win 'e she has been
Moore for that of ln.ls M. I.llllck, who to visit her niece, Miss Flossie lluestls
was eleetnd two years nt?o, but never who Is a nurse at the Mary Fletcher
ounllflril .Monda . market day, iws j hospital. An autumn party was held
brought in to 1'J eentft and butter to In. nt the boine of C. W Saruent on Mun--Mts.
William coin, who had been In 111 I (fi r street I'ridny evrntiiH (lames
health six years at her home on Seymour j were playe.l and dnnelntr enJoed. Sup
s'veet ilied aboul noon fundny. nt th"ip,.r w'as served and the ftbl-s were
ne of 11.1 eais. of h eomiilicailon of turn- 1 (Hied, there beintr ISO covers. Mr. nnd
Mcs She Is Mirvlved bv a husband, two -r, j;, j. .Jewell, who have been vislt
slster'. Mrs. Alma Harrows of VeiRcnni". , ,lf; t the home of Mr. and Mrs. Oliver
and Mr". Napoleon Profilers of Canad i. j ( iiiison on South Mrtln street for n
alii' a hrother. Joseph Trudeau of SniW-' week, have returned to P.urllnifton
bury The funeral was held al St.1 ir. Kdcat-ll. Flske of Weyhrld'e, i
Mnry's Cntlioltc Church Tuesdnv nt
nine o'clock. -M I-. and Mrs. H. .1. Perkins ,
and rritld hnve returnod from a carrlarf-' i
drive in different pints of the State. II.' ,
has resumed his duties In the A. Calhnun ;
K- Son store after a week's nbsoncc. Mr
nnd Mis. K. Field of Santa P.arharn, Cal..
are "n town to vNIt a; the home of Mr
and Mrs. Ilansrm (l'Prvan Mrs. I.. .i will be held at St. Mary's Catholic
".Morrison went .Monday lo Albnnv. N. V , Church Thursdny mondni? at nine o'clock,
to spend a few weeks with tho family of , Miss Louise NtUon, class of 11IG, Mld
her son, Merlin c Morrison, tiaylne tel'er dlebury CoIIcrc, has iranc to firoveton,
of the First Nailonnl hnnl:. The Vermont N. ., where she will teach domestic
Mnrl'lr company Is tnhlnj; down h- sc- ' rcience. Col. Charles K. Youtt. who has
j lions the tenenient houses at theh abnn
' doneil plant nt lleldons and removlm" i
them to Proe'or. where they will he re 'nblu to lie out aKain. Miss Annie Sulli
(oi!tructei rot' ihe use of 'iome of the-,,- van has returned from Uurlincton, where
eintdo.ves.- Mltis Pearl Pitrtihnm. who h.i.( ( she has been on a visit at the home of
been here for a few- rtnys with her aunt i her brother, John Sullivan. Mrs. A. J.
Miss Ada Kellomr. returned Mond.iv I piper has ttone to i-Ttchbun,', JIass.,
iniii-iilnB to Wcvhrldtre, where she ll where
tenochlnc school Allan It Cohb, wbohn-iiM. P.
been seriously 111 for two weeks. Is mil -I
Improved XI and Mrs. Pdwnrd McKe!
sey. w ho nno Dc-n visitlinr the!
ihiu..'iiter.
llilii.-'ilier. .Miss lions, .11 At idilleliH .
Colleue, have leturiied to West
Kutlnml - Hr. t . C. S inborn. who
wen' two w-eeKs ami with :i Mid-
Dthrrs of thr party nrr strutfitlltii:
nlons on thr route home. Mr. nnd Mrs
Henrije K. Miirshull are in W.ishinnton
and will remain in that eitv until the
latter part of this week. Mr. nnd Mrs
William W. Ses-sions of West Itiitland
hnve returned after vlsltinn Mrs ;-'rs-hIoiis's
mother. Mis. Mary Spencer - Miss
A blue 1 1 a rrl ma n . n nurse m one
of Ihe hospitals in Nei- Vork
rlty. Is in town to ist at II. r home
of he inirents. Ml. and Mr- A. S llar
rimiin. -Mrx I'vni Utntkr "f llull.inl
in town to l'dt li.-i nn'V- ln
Pr.ii'k T r 1 1 (1 . . . n - Mi-.. Sir mi i-ti irio- is
' ifi n it tl . bum.' ..r M .mil Mi
N inoiir Tin P.i 1. W P
POCH!
IN
mu
ill RESOURCES'
iCJrowth I.s Sfi.oOO.nnO.OdO since1
Passage of Federal Re
serve Act.
Wasliini:lon. Oct. -Hrovvth of the
country's bankltiir resouri.ii.- since nafsao
of the leiliual n serve an is put at six
and one-half billion dollars, in a state
ment Issuud to-il.i.v by the comptioller
of the irensurv. The lei-nrd is dm-laied tn
be witliui t a pur.illel In the history ut
this or any ollinr country
Thr iIkui -s cover thr pencil from July,
t'.'kl. a fi-iv mouths before the act vva.1
passed to July, Viln, lm lulling neatly all
of the nrst two jotus ol the Kuropoun
war
This stupendous Itn veuso in bunMnn
assets and available capital says lh"
stainiiietit "has been aeeompanleil by an
illiprei edentod iii'ickpiilni;. which h.ii
auiniiiiteii m ninny c:u-cs to an outburst
of business activity m every State anil
in practically every part of every State
Ciiini Mentally there, has been a mark".)
reduction in interest cbamos."
Tlie inciease in resources, it Is de
clared. Is ureater than the totnl ie
sources of all the country's national
banks a little more than a decade nun,
Deposits since tlie reserve act went Into
force have made an unprecedented Jump
also. Their total Increase Is put al six
and a quarter billion dollars, or 31 per
cent., nearly its jieat ut, the resource
Increase
Hunks and trust companies are lendiiiK
three and a quarter billion dollars more
than tiny were thro.- years ni?n. the
statement sas.
Ihnpluisis Is laid upon a distinct and
crowing tendency, toward decentraliza
tion and distribution thioiiKluiul the
country of "excessive reserves hereto
fore piled up in. eastern cities." This
lias heen especially true dunnf the last
few months. In the four and one-half
months from May 1 to Sepliniber 1 this
j ear deposits 111 New Yolk city deereasid
nearly a quarter of n billion dollars, in
rrcnslnu luavlly meanwhile ,n country
hanks
New York State's Inerense was ififHfi,
nnn.Otyi, or 11 per cent.; Pennsylvania
f 107,00,000, or 17 per cent.
:.'H1 IJPAI.IFY AS OFFICICHS
Washington, Nov. 1. -Approximately J,
(i men throughout the countty have al
iead qiialllled for commissions of the of
llcers' reserve corp-. of the armv, recently
ucauil by Congress. The net piovldes
that the eorpn shall be an unlimited icser
volr fioin which In time of war will be
drawn the necessary additional olllcers for
the regular army and those for nil vol
unteer regiments that may be ailthorliteil.
A I my olllcl.ils are well pleased with the
progtess inaile In this step toivard ade
quate national defense II Is expected
that within another year nearlv Hi.kvi of
llrers will have been accepted and coup
mlsslotiiil, readv for Immediate active
duty should the need nrlm.
At Hie buieiui of iirlntlng and engi-avmu
the commissions for Hie lesnive olllceis
are now being piepured. The will eon e
spenil closel.v to thuse Isuui'd lo olllcei-s ut
thr regnl.i! aiinv and will heal' the slg.
nature of Hie President In cvci'V ,ise
l.i.uihili Nn' ' 'Me -iiikin r of tin
Prill; i sleaiuei' Mei'ie and Tiuiki is all
l.imiii cd l j Lloyds uttK
U Li
t.wM'
VT.
l.iekmati of Assati, India, n mlisionnr
"ho has been In Vermont for 10 dnvs,
nn ached at the Meinorlnl I'.nptist
' ,,"r''11 llt tl,p fvenlntr services Sunday
nod Kiivn an Interestlnt; talk on the af-
l'" t'"' country. Special music
was rendered for the ornishm. lie left
jtim(i,iv for linstnn. The Vminn- Pen-
been ill for some time, died Tuesday
mornliiK at the into of 7- years. She is
urvlved by a husband, one daughter,
lrs. O. II. Cnip' of Waterbury, Colin.,
nn,i r,ne son, Clyde Flske of Weyhridt?".
'-,,. luneral will be In Id at the house
Thursday afternoon at two o'clock The
funeral of Chnrlcs IhirKor of WoyhridKn
been confined lo the bouse for ten days
bv Illness, has so far recovered as to be
she will spend some time. M'ss
Townr, who has been tin: Kuest
el Mr. and Mrs. Charles M. Swift for a
few wciks, has returned to lietrolt,
Mich. Mrs. Hazil IvodjhanolT and daufdi-
t'-r, who have been visltitiK at th" homo
of her parents, c,i. nnd Mrs. Thaddeus
M. Chapman, for a few wicks, have re
turned to New York city. Wilbur
Hoodrlrh. who has had three rib.
broken and was otherwise Injur
ed In nn .lutomolille .-'ci-idetit two
weeks ni;o. is mendiiitr rapidly and Is
able to be about some Mr. and Mrs.
Knlph II. Horden nnd Miss Suphin Hor
ili n have returned home lo Clinton, Conn.,
after three weeks here. Clarence II. nddy
nnd family are movim," to town from
P.utlnnd anil will occupy th" place known
lis the llolden place a mile and a half
smith of the village, which Mr. Kdtly
nnd his biother, liUKcne, recently pur
chased. Mr. and Mrs. Francis W. I!oyd
Mid Mr. J3od s sister. Mrs Cecilbi Har
nnn, hnve returned t" Tliuiville. pn.,
alter passmt: th" past month in this
( Continued on insr (wo.)
SHERIFF'S WIFE
A PLUGKY III
Mrs. Godfrey Heats Escaping
Prisoner into Insensi
bility. P.ennlustoii, Nov 1. Mrs. Frederick
Hodfrey, wife of Bennington county's
sliotllf, to-day knorkrd out a burly negro
prisoner who was attempting to escape
and piobably tavvd her husband from
serious Injury.
The negro had grappled with the
sheriff, a lightly built eteran of the
Civil War. who proved no inatih for bis
votingcr and heavier opponent, and the
'uisotier would have made his way to
liberty but for the assistance of Mrs.
Hodfiey. licpondlng to her husband's
i all for assistant e, she threw her left
linn about the negto's neck and pouniled
bun into Insensibility with a heavy
p idlock.
The negio. Calvin Williams, had been
i untitled In Hie county jail sine; October
7 chnrge'l with rape. He had previously
been employed on one of the lumber jobs
In Manchester In the northern section of
tlm count v, where the alleged otfence
w as commltle I.
Shortly before noon to-day Sheriff God
frey entered the main corridor of the jail
1 1 nm his apartments dlrctly adjoining.
The steel grated door to ihe corridor is
lastened with two heavy padlocks weed
ing nenrly three pounds each.
As the sheriff swung the door he wn.s
al lacked by Williams, who attempted to
throw the otllcer to the lloor. The sher
1 il" grappled with the prisoner and culled
for assitnnre. Mrs. Hodfrey was at the
time in the kiti lien al the further end of
the building and w bun she reached the
small ante-room in which the olllcer and
prisoner weie struggling the sherifl was
nearlv exhausted. At tlrst the woman,
who is a number of yeais younger than
her husband and of stuidv physique, en
deavored to strike the negro with only
enough forie to loosen his grasp on tho
otllcer. Williams resisted and tore the
padlock from herhnnds. The heavy chunk
of iron dropped to tho floor and Williams
attempted to grasp It. Il was kicked
away from his grasp h the woman who
legaiued possession of her weapon and
renew e.1 her attack in earnest. She pound
id Williams about the face and head,
making a number ol cuts from which the
blood saturated ihe i lothing of all three
participants In the struggle. A blow which
caught the negro above the right ear and
laid his head open for nearly three Inchos,
dropped him to the Moor Insensible.
COAL MAY UH $20 A TON
New York, Nov. 1. With ooaj retail
ing as high as flS a ton In some.parts
of tho city, New Yorkers face the pos
sibility of haviniT before long to pay
the record price of the strike days of
1!03. which was f'-'O a ton Tho Sep
tember I price for iloniesth; size coal
was $7.2" a ton.
Tlie situation Is complicated by
transportation difficulties. With the
greatest Industrial activity the country
has ever known, which Is keeping tno
torb'H on n lu h t and day shifts, the ruil
i nails are filling Hie most scrinus car
shoi'tHue m Iheii blstoi v because of the
cnoini'His ib mauds of present business
I 'n woman know" the stores' iinlesa
J -he has read lb' latest uilu of the c-loiea,
HUGHES CLOSES
WESTERN CAMPAIGN
Declares Union Labor Has Heen
Directed to Vote against
Ilim.
FIVE SPEECHES IN DAY
Cflliiliilnfr Siijn Noli.iily Cnn llli-ccl
t.'ontrol Hie Labor ofi' It 111
lie Cat In .sober .ludsinenf.
Terrcj Haute. Ind.. Nov. 1. Charles K
Hutihes, speiikln? before an audience that
crowded eveiy availnbln foot of the blK
WlBwain here to-nlubt. declared while
he understood that union labor had been
told otllclally lo vote against him, he
knew that nobody could direct or control
th" labor vote und thai It would be cis'
accord I iik- to its sober judKmrnt
Mr. IIiiKhes wound up his n . -
In
the Middle West to-nlKht ,t ' '
shortly afterward for points n (
Yoik, Uio Inst Slate In which I
appear before election. lie nn I
speeches to-day in which he -i
polhlc.i he intends lo follow II !
assailed the administration for tv
ment of the Underwood tnriff am!
son Inw and e.t'ressed the bed. ,
would win He Issued tin r. p
stalemint to-niKht:
"I am leaving Indiana aft' r -b-i
perhaps the most wonderful n
evrr inven a candidate for the i r i
"This splendid tribute was n
personally, but as the repres i r
tho jjreat United Uepubllcnn t" n
Ine foiwnrd lo victory and - r .
the nation. The men of Im' . i i
organized a tieople's victor - ' ' v
to thank the leaders of the r. i i
Iiubllcan pnriy for their iff '
Mr. IluL'hes, on his final I
Middle Wet, devot'-d m
speeches to the tariff. He nrii r. -.
iiudlenf.es at Union and FJnizil. I
largely of employes of tlie , ii , ,
companies.
"We hal soup houses and hr' .1 . i r M
months ai;o," he told his and" i I
ton, "and we will have the -,1 : i.-.L. , ve
do not protect American ind.i 'r' ' if
we attempt to itury on the in- " of
this count rj' on the iioll.'y inl" ,'', in
the I'nderwooil bill "
"Wl.eii the war orders end.' lev . n
lirlzll, "under our present po'iix i .
bodied In the Pnderwood bill j.,is .
our opponents, you can just i ee "r. . r
troInK back to work for one or
ilueednvs.i week. That is what
lo you."
In his speech here tn-nifrht M- ' Kiics
discussed the Adam.'-oii bill at .m.'i
"1 think It will be found '.h.i' t i. 'dam.
t-ou bill :s a nld brick for 1h!i r I oat
no' iiiiv elKht-hnur win k d i.v In.! There
was not anv oiKb'-hour w-ork (!a nmro, i
tlou
Sllld.
invohed m It. There never was, he
RUTLAND ITALIAN
GUILTY OF ROBBERY
Ii-.ti.ind. Nov. 1 a .uii'v in R lti.md
realty court to-day found Nun' i.i Mas
siro guilty of lobbery from the person
l-i having stolen 170 from Domcnl' o
P.as isto since deceased, while the la'trr
was drunk at the housu of Luisi Gruppo
here last March.
A jury was empaneled this it'ernoon
to try Alfred Farley of St. Albans, vvhn
Is charged with breaking into the Fair
Haven railroad station last July
Several other criminal uises Were dis
posed of to-day by State's Attorney C
V. Poulin. nearly cleaning up th. irimlna'
doi ket. Chailes Hariett, age 3 .oars, win!
went a few weeks ago to Luzerne. N Y
with Miss Mary Pitts of Clarendon. 13,
and was married to her, pleaded gulltv
to the charge of kidnapping. As he has
work and expressed a desire for m op
portunity to support Lis wife tl r court
placed him on probation for t" i year
with :it month:)' j.entcnee han-:.i ov r
him
CHURCH RELLS RING
FOR "DRY" VIRGINIA
MSI snlooiiH Cloe Dmiri for Hood nml
Prohibit InilNtM He jo lee,
r.ichmond, a . Nov. 1 To th'- chi lies
of rnu'ing church hells and the shouting
and singing of enthusiastic prohibition
ists, Virginia went dry ut midnight last
night. As iW saloons in different parts
of the Old Dominion closed their doors
for good, the joy at watch meetings of
"dry workers" was great
Willi the placing of the ban on liquors
in Virginia, there are now 1? dry States.
The light has boon going on a long time
ill Virginia and as a result a lari,e part
of the State had previously voted for
prohibition In local option elections The
new State law affects Ulchmond, Nor
folk, Newport News, Lynchburg, P' tors
bun.:. Itoanuke and Bnstol and the re
maining towns and district? ns h t by
local optn n
The law is considered very drastic No
bevirago, excepting cider, can be sold
Hint shows n trace of alcohol. Possession
bv any one of more than one gallon o
whiskey or wine or thr. o gallons of beer
will be regarded as prima facie evMcnon
of intent to violate the law
NICHOLAS L YOI'N'H DI A'
Washington, Oct HI Nirle ' i rj
Young, an old-time baseball pav.r .i,
formerly president of the "x'.v -na'
League, died here to-day. He had in . n
employed in the treasury departnn i ' 1 '
some time. Mr. Young wni beri r
Amsterdam, N. Y., Til years iv- Il
played professional baseball with thr h
Nationals of Washington in the i t s
later with tho Chicago club of the I ni.
Leagui. and was at one time mm.ngi r '
the Lord I?altlmore club of H.iltimon
He became president and secretary of the
National League in Wl and held tin posi
tion until l'.Wi, when be retired and was
succeeded by Harry' Pulllnm
WOMAN (HVllN LIIUlHTY
Klltlund, Oct SI Mrs. Louis Gruppo,
ago 1!) years, who has been in Jail hete
about six months waiting I rial on tin
charge of being an accessory I" Nuncio
Massaro in the robbery of s;n fron
Domeiilco Hugo-do, who was found den.
In the Hiuppn npaitmenls In lb - ii'N
March 7. was to-day set fn e. tl,. inf.-r
million llled against her by State s tt. r
ney C. V Poulin being nolle prossed u
Kutlnnd county court on motion of At
torney F II O'ldlen on the ground that
a coiisplracv was allowed with nnlv tw
persons concerned, whereas und-e
law three nun t be I'.inicl.d wH'i u n
a crime
