djiïorftc
a
'•"""I
STRICTLY DEMOCRATIC ; ALWAYS CONSISTENT. '
VOL XXVII
NATCHITOCHES, LOUISIANA, THURSDAY, NOV. 2, 1916.
NO. 56
PROPOSED
INI
TO THE
CONSTITUTION OF LOUIS
IANA
Adopted at the Session of the
Legislature of 1916.
To Be Voted On at the Congres
sional Election.
Act No. 4
House BUI No. 4. By Mr. Byrna.
A JOINT RESOLUTION.
Proposing an amendment to the Consti
tution of the State of Louisiana pro
viding for: Ths funding of certain
debts of the City of New Orleans and
of the Board of Directors of the Pub
lic Schools. Parish of Orleans, re
spectively the issuance of serial bonds
by said city, the purpose for and the
manner in which same may be issued
and the duties and functions of the
Board of Liquidation, City Debt, with
reference thereto; and the levying by
the City of New Orleans and ths
Board of School Directors, Parish of
Orleans, respectively, of certain taxes
for general municipal and school pur
poses; and providing for the submis
sion of said amendment to the elec
tors of the State for their approval
or rejection.
Be It enacted by the Genera! Assem
bly of the State of Louisiana, two-third#
or a'.l the members elected to each house
concurring, that subject to the ratifica
tion *nd approval of the electors of
the State, the Constitution of the State
be amended by Incorporating therein
the following provision», to-wit»
Section 1. The City of New Orleans,
by a vqt# of three-fourths >f all the
members of the Board of Liquidation
City Debt, approved by resolution of the
Commission Council, or Its successor as
the governing body of said municipality,
adopted by a vote of two-tinrà«i of all
the members of said council or govern
ing body, shall have power and is here
by authorized to issue Nine Million Dol
lars (19,000,000) of bonds, to be styled
•'City of New Orleans Serial Gold
Bonds," and to bear such rate of Inter
est as the Board of Liquidation, City
Debt, may fix from time to time as. each
Installment of said bonds Is offered for
sale as hereinafter provided.
Section 1. Three Million Dollars (II,
000,000), In par value, of the bonds au
thorized by Section 1 of this amendment
shall forthwith be sold.
The proceeds of said three million
dollars of bonds shall be applied exclu
sively to the following purposes and in
the following order;
The D a ymen : of ths outstandlr
"Act bfo Ÿ of* Tne General As
the State of Louisiana »or
y^ar 190«. which bonds shall be
calleTfor payment and paid as soon as
"«Mfe payment of the principal of
the floating mdebtednese of ths
Board of Directors of the Pub
lic Schools, Parish of Orleans,
evidenced by note or note* out
standing at the *lme of the adoption
of this amendment, to an amount nc
exceeding Six Hundred and Fifty Thou
sand Dollars <1560,000); provided that
In the event that said indebtedness or ,
any part thereof ehall have been paid
by said Board out of its current reve
nues previous to the adoption of this
amendment, the amount thus paid (not
to exceed $660.000, however), shall be
paid over In cash to said Board to be
used by it for school purposes, as pro
vided by law;
(c) The payment of the sum of Five
Hundred Thousand Dollars ($600,000).
with Interest thereon, borrowed by tne
City of New Orleans for storm emergen
cy purposes in the year r915;
(d) The payment of the overdraft or
other indebtedness due by the City of
New Orleans to Its flscal agents or other
banks representing loans or advances
made by them to said city, other than
those referred to In paragraph (c) of
this section, to an amount not exceed
ing In principal and Interest the sum
of One Million Three Hundred and Fif
ty Thousand Dollars ($1,$50,000); and
(s) The balance of said proceeds
■hall be used and employed by the
Board of Liquidation, City Debt, for the
cayment of Public Improvement Certifi
cates of the City of New Orleans, as set
forth In Section I of this amendment.
Section I. The remainder of the
bonds authorised by Section 1 of this
S m-ndment, or so much thereof as may
e necessary, sfeatl be sold, from time to
time, in such amounts as the Board of
Liquidation, City Debt, may détermina
end the proceeds of ths sale thereof
shall be applied by said Board to ths
payment of Public Improvement Certifi
cates authorized by Act No. 65 of the
General Assembly of the State of Louis
iana for the year 1908. and acts amenda
tory thereof, and presently outstanding
or issued at any time In payment of
any contract made before thle amend
ment takes effect at their respective
maturities or wheiWsald maturities can
be anticipated upen terms satisfactory
to said Board. „
Said Act No. M of 1908 and all
amendments thereof, as well as all stat
utes upon the seme subject, and so
much of Acts No. 12$ and No. 170 of
the General Assembly of the State of
Louisiana for the year 1910. and other
statutes on the same subject matter, as
may affect, apply '*r pertain to the City
of New Orleans, be and the same are
hsreby repealed; nevertheless Public
Improvement Cert I Rca tes may be issued
In the manner provided by said Act No.
$6 of 1908. and amendments thereof, in
payment of any contract made before
this amendment takes effect
Bectlon 4. The City of New Orleans
may also issue anl negotiate its bonde
when authorized by a vote of a majority
In number and amount of the property
taxpayers, who shell have been assessed
for property ln seid city as shown by
the last assessment made prior to the
submission of the proposition to tne
said property taxpayers and who are
» otherwise qualified to vote under the
Constitution and laws of this State,
voting at an election called by ordinance
adopted by a vote of two-thirds of all
the members of the Commission Coun
cil, or Its successor as the governing
body of said City of New Orleans, and
which ordinance before any such elec
tion is ordered shall be also adopted by
a vote of three-fourths of all the mem
bers of the Board of Liquidation, City
Debt Due notice of said election shall
be published for thirty days in the offi
cial Journal of said city (four weekly
in^e'-t'o'-s of eald notice constituting a
publication for thirty caye. provided
thirtv days intervene between the date
of the first Insertion and the date of
said elecuon).
No bonds shall be Issued under this
section for any ether purpose or for
anv greater amount than that stated in
the submission o? the proposition to
said taxpayers. , _
Section 5. In ccse of fir*. flood. r»a
tilence. storm or other public ailamlty.
the City of New Orleans shall „have
bower. W a two-thirds vote of all tne
members of the Commission Council, or
Its successor as the governing body of
Said city, concurred in by a three*
Nuirths vote of aU the members of the
Board of Liquid*Mon, City Debt, to
borrow money an! issue and negotiate
bond- In such euiu. not exceeding £*»•
Hundred Thousand IVMtars ($500.090),
as shell be necessary in any owe euch
'"*.dînn C! i rot the ourvoes of re
funding- all or any part of the bonded
Indebtedness of the City of New Orleans
existing at the time of the adoption of
this amendment, bonds may from time
to time be issued and negotiate ). When
any of the issues of the bonds of said
city outstanding at the time of the adop
tion of this amendment shall become
callable according to their terms or tne
statutes under which they are respec
tively Issued, or when the cousent of
all the holders of any such issue of
bonds can be secured, the Board of Li
quidation. City Debt, shall have tne
right in its discretion to call and pay
any one or more of said issues of bonds,
and shall be authorized by resolution
duly adopted to Issue and Begotlato
bonds to provide the funds necessary
for that purpose; provided, however,
that In no event shall the par value of
the bonds so sold and negotiated ex
ceed the par value of the bonded in
debtedness thereby to be refunded.
Section 7. The full faith and credit
of the City of New Orleans are pledged
for the payment of the principal and in
terest of all bonds issued under this
amendment. „ ,, .
The principal and Interest of all bonds
authorized by and to be issued under
this amendment shall be paid primarily
out of (1) that one-half of the surplus
of the one per cent debt tax which here
tofore has been dedicated for the «up
port and maintenance of the public
schools of said city, as levied under and
authorized by Act No. 110 of the Gen
eral Assembly of the State of Louisiana
for the year 1890, and subsequently
made part of the Constitution of this
State, and (2), after January 1. 1928,
that portion of the one per cent debt
tax, authorized and levied under Act No.
110 aforesaid, and the two-mill tax au
thorized by and levied under Act No. 6
of the General Assembly of the State
of Louisiana for the year 1839 whlcn
shall have been released and freed from
dedication either by the calling and re
funding or the payment in due courso
of all or any part of the bonds existing
at the time of the adoption of the
amendment; provided that. If the funds
derived from ths sources aforesaid sha.i
be insufficient in any one year to pay
the principal and Interest of the bona»
issued under this amendment end then
outstanding and unpaid, or if for any
cause there shall not be funds appro
? Mated to or available for such purpose,
he City of New Orleans shall levy a
tax upon all taxable property in said
city sufficient to provide for any such
deficiency; and provided further tnat,
when the aforesaid one per cent debt
tax and two mill water ana sewer tax
shall cease to be levied, the City of
New Orleans shall levy a tax upon all
taxable property In said city sufficient
to ray the principal and interest of
said bonds as they respectively become
due.
Section 8. It Is hereby Intended tnat
all existing dedication and appropMa
tlons of said one per cent debt tax au
thorised by said Act No 110 of 1890 (ex
cept with respect to the said one-haif
of the surplus of the one per cent debt
tax therein dedicated to public schools),
and of said two-mill water an a sewer
tax. authorized by said Act No. 6 of
1899, shall be respected and performea
according to the priorities by said stat
utes established; that all of that portion
of the funds resulting from the levy of
said taxes which shall be released from
said appropriations and dedications ®y
the payment, satisfaction or refunding
of any of the bonded debt obligations
now charged thereon and there-against
shall-, together with the one-half of the
surplus of the one per cent debt tax
heretofore dedicated to public school
purposes, be used and applied to tne
payment of the principal and interest of
all bonds issued under this amendment;
that any residue thereof remaining after
the payment of the principal and inter
to the city of New ÔtiSBWWW.--.
It for general municipal purposes; but
when, and to the extent that, the obliga
tions now charged on said taxes shall be
paid, satisfied or refunded, said taxes
shall be released from said obligations,
and, ultimately, when entirely released
and discharged, shall cease to be levied;
and. that thereafter, any and ail bonds
Issued under this amendment shall be
provided for by a tax upon all taxable
property In the City of New Orleans
sufficient to pay the principal and in
terest of said bonds as they respectively
become due; provided, however, that. In
the event the funds hereinabove special
ly dedicated for the payment of the
pYlncipal and interest of the bonds is
sued under this amendment should prove
insufficient, the City of New Orleans
shall, and it is hereby required to. levy
in every such Instance a tax upon all
taxable property in the City of New Or
leans necessary to pay the principal
and Interest of said bonds.
Section 9. The principal and interest
of all bonds authorized by this amena
ment shall be payable In gold coin of
the United States of America, w its
equivalent, of the standard of weight
and fineness at the time of the issuance
of «ach InstaUmen-t of said bonds.
Said bonds shall be exempt from all
taxation for State, parish, municipal or
other local purposes.
Savings banks, tutors of minors, cura
tors of Interdicts, trustees and other
fiduciaries may invest the fund* in their
hand in said bonds.
Bald bonds may be used for deposit
with any officer, board. municipality, or
other political subdivision of the State
of Louisiana in any case where by pres
ent or future laws deposit or security is
rC ^aid bonds may be registered and re
leased from registry under such rutes
as the Board of Liquidation, City Debt,
may prescribe.
Section 10. All bonds Issued under
this amendment shall bear such rate or
Interest or, from time to time, different
rates of interest, and shall, except as
herein otherwise specially provided, be
ln such form, terms and denomination»,
and payable at such times and places
within a period of not exceeding i.tty
years from the date thereof, as the
Board of Liquidation. City Debt shall
determine. Bald bonds shall he issue*
in serial form and shall be payable in
annual Installments, commencing not
more than two years from their respec
tive dates, and the installment payable
In each year shall be ec fixed tnat when
the annual interest is added thereto, the
several annual total amounts of prin
cipal and Interest to be paid shali n»
as nearly equal as practicable; provided,
said Installments may be fixed at Rv»
thousand dollars or the nearest multi
ple thereof.
aid bonds shall be signed by the
Mayor and the Commise. or.er Of Public
Finance of the City of New Orleans, or
officer* exercising similar functions and
countersigned bv the President or Vice
prcptdent and the Secretary or Assist
ant Secretary of the Board of Liquida
tion. City Debt, and the coupons at
tached to said bonds shall bear me
fac simile signatures of said Commis
sioner of Public Finance and said Sec
retary or Assistant Secretary. In case
any such officer whose signature
or counter-signature appears upon
such a bond or coupoa shall
cease to bo such officer before
delivery of said bond or coupon
to the purchaser, such signature or
counter-signature shall nevertheless t>«
valid for a'l purposes. The cost and ex
t ense of preparing and selling said
: onde shall be paid for by the Board or
Liquidation. City Debt. ■
Section 11. All bonds issued under
tit.s amendment shall be sold by the
iktfird of Liquidation, City Debt, to tne
highest bidder or bidders by sealed pro
r sais alter due advertisement of not
: then five insertions In the official
irnal of the City of New,Orleans tn
trit Insertion to beat least fifteen days
to the date of the saie), »m 6jcn
other advertisement, in said city or
elsewhere, ae eald Board of Liquidation
may in ite discretion direct; proviued,
said Board of Liquidation may reject
any and all bids.
Section 12. Except as otherwise pro
vided in this amendment the City of
New Orleane ehall not borrow money,
issue bonde, notes or other evidences or
indebtedness or pledge lte credit or an
ticipate the collection of any of Its
U No' money ehall be drawn from tne
treaaury of said cily without specific
appropriation therefor previously made,
nor ehall said city make any contract
aSY Ti:.:5
but send u*
roar order«
tot wed duff
tea tow#«»
»
j
*
er incur any debt or obligation for any
purpose whatsoever unless sufficient
funds, not otherwise appropriated, to
pay and discharge same are actually in
the treasury of eai.1 city at the time of
making the contract or incurring tne
debt or obligation and are speciiically
cet aside and dedicated to said purpose,
unless herein otherwise provided. The
foregoing limitation and restriction
shall not apply or be held to apply to
contracts or obligation incurred with
respect to the furnishing to said city or
light, heat or power, water, telephone
service or garbage removal or destruc
tion.;
The said city may in any calendar
year in anticipation of the collection of
the taxes of such calendar year, and for I
the purposes for which such taxes are '
levied, borrow such sums as shall not
be in excess of the amount of its un- I
collated taxes of such year, and may
issue its notes or other evidences of
indebtedness therefor, and such sum,
notou or other evidences of indebted
ness slinll be payable only out of the j
taxes of tie calendar year In which said
loan or loans are first made, and for
which indsbtedness said revenues shall
be pledged,' and said iudebtr iness shall
not be payable out of any other funds
or moneys whatsoever No money snail
be borrowed by the said city except ror
current municipal purposes, and in no
event shall any money be borrowed by
said'city to make or to pay for work#
of public improvement. 8aid city may
issue for street paving purposes certifi
cates on its faliu and credit pursuant to
legislative authority, to an amount, not
in excess of any special assessments
which have been or shall be made for
such purposes. Such paving certificates -
hereatter Issued shall be chargeable
primarily against the special ' assess
ments !n respect of which they are is
sued. and secondarily against the reve
nue» of the City of New Orleans derived
from taxation for general municipal
purposes and from sources other than
the taxes for the payment of the princi
pal and interest of the bonds now out
standing or hereafter to be issued un
der this paving certificates only In ths
event and to the extent that such
amendment, which revnues shall be ap
plied In payment of such special assess
ments shall be insufficient for such pay
mci'i, and reimbursement shall be made
to the general funds of the City of New
Orleans when the assessments are col
lected to the extent of the amount that
the said general funds shall have con- j
tributed to the payment aforesaid. So
much of Act No. 23 of the General As
sembly of the State of Louisiana for the
year 1914 as may be inconsistent here
with is hereby repealed, and hereafter
no paving certificates shall be issued
upon the pledge of the reserve fund of
the City of New Orleans, but such cer
tificates shall be secured as herein and
otherwise provided for by said act or
subsequent legislative authority not in
connlct herewith; provided, however,
that paving certificates, for which the
faith and credit of the City of New Or
leans shall be pledged, whether Issued
under the aforesaid Act No. 23 of 1914,
or under subsequent legislation, ehall
not at any one tims h# outstanding in
an amount In excess of Five Million
Dollars ($5,000.000) in facs value.
Section 13. The total lsaue of bonds
by ths City of Nsw Orleans for all pur
poses shell never exceed ten per centum
of tS:e assessed valuation of the proper
ty in said city provided, however, that
neltfier the bonds issued for water,
sewerage and drainage purposes (name
ly. the $12,000,000 Public Improvement
Bonds issued under said Act No. 6 of
1899 and the $8,000,000 New Pub
lic Improvement Bonds issued un
der Act No. 19 of the General
Assembly of the State of Louisiana
tha^jjgjL im, _ e»4 __ acta
or hereafter authorised. Into which the
aforesaid bonus or any par therof may
be refunded), nor tho $2.000.000 Publio
Belt Railroad Bonde authorised by Act
No. 179 of tho General Assembly of the
State of Louisiana for the year 1908.
nor any bonds hereafter authorised for
Public Belt Railroad purposes, nor any
bonds which may hereafter be Issued
for water supply or for the acquisition
or construction of any revenue produc
ing public utility, nor any paving certifi
cates primarily chargeable against spe
cial assessments for street paving, shall
be Included in computing the indebted
ness of eald City of New Orleans under
this limitation; and provided further,
that emergency bonds may be Issued as
authorized in Bection 5 of this amend
ment even though said limitation shall
have been reached provided that tne
Nina Million Dollars of bonds authorized
by Section 1 of this amendment shall
not be subject to the limitation herein
fix»? at the time or times that same
shall be Issued; but, with respect to
any- other bonde that may be Issued
hereafter under this amendment tner*
shall be Included in the computation
said Nine Million Dollars of bonds, not
withstanding the fact that all of said
Nlite Million Dollars of bonds shall not
have been actually issued, and eucn
amount of emergency bond# as may bs
then outstanding.
Section 14. The Board of Liquida
tion City Debt, as now organized and
created with the powers, duties and
functions prescribed by existing laws
and by this amendment, shall be con
tinued while any bonds autnoMzed by
thin amendment are outstanding and un
paid ; and all taxes which may be levied
for- the payment of said bonds shall, day
by day as collected, be paid over to said
Board, and shall by It be applied In pay
ment of the principal and Interest of
said bonds; and said board shall with
respect to all bonds authorised by this
amendment be entitled to exercise ail
the rights and enforce the performance
of all the obligations, the same as It is
authorised to do under laws existing at
the time of the adoption of this amend
meut with respect to any of the present
ly outstanding bonds of said City of
New Orleans. All funds, property and
things of value held by ths Board of Li
quidation. City Debt, for bonded deot
purposes other than taxes now or here
after levied, and particularly all funds,
property and things of value now or
hereafter held bysuld Board under Act
No. 1$S of the G^jral ssembly of the
Stale of Louisiana xor tne year 18*0
and all amendments thereto, shall when
released from contract obligations or
dedications imposed by law* existing at
the time of the adoption of this amend
ment be used and employed in the dia
creatlon of said Board in payment and
retirement of any bonds of the City or
New Orleane then outstanding
Bectlon 15. For general municipal
purposes, exclusive of the support and
maintenance of the public schools ana
the payment of the bonded debt of the
City of New Orleans said city may in
esc'" year levy upon all tax.-.hie property
within said city a tax not exceeding
six and one-half mills on the dollar of
the assessed valuation thereof: pro
vided, however, that when the one per
cent debt tax authorized by said Act No.
110 of 1890 end the two mill water ant
■ewer tax authori-e' by eaid Act No. 6
of 1893 shall both have ceased to be lev
ied. and if therea'tc- the taxes levied ny
the City of New Orleans In any one
year for bonded debt purposes be less
than ten mil's, said city may tn sued
events levy for its general purposes
such additional tax which, when ad ieJ
to the tax of six and one-hair tn:..e
hereby authorized and the taxes levied
for the payment of the principal and
Interest of ite bonis as they severally
mature shall not e» <*ed In the aggre
gate sixteen sud o- *alf mi'ls.
Section 16. The » ovation of twen
ty per cert of the re'e » '* of the City
of New Oceans shall n t hereafter bs
trade as directed by Section 40 of the
Act No. 159 of.the General Assembly of
the State of Louisiana for the year
1911, except insofar as the fund so di
rected to be reserved shall have been
appropriated or dedicated before this
amendment takes effect to the payment
of any obligation or the City of New
Orleans, and said reserve fund of each
ysar; when released from the obliga
tions charged against It by law and be
cause of contracta existlng at the ti$p#
j of the adoption of this amendment,
* shall be used for general municipal pur»
poses.
Section 17. For the support, maints
nance, construction and repair of th*.
public Schools In the City of New Or*
lear.s the Boqrd of Directors»of tho
Public Schools. Parish of Orleans, or its
logs! successor, shall levy annually
such tax not exceeding three am"
half mills, as said Board shall
neceamry which l*vy shall be «ei
bu «M tara to v ----------
ell or other future governing body of
the City of New Orleans, which shall
cause the tax to be entered upon tne
tax rolls of said city according to law
against all taxable property in said
city as assessed and valued for city
taxation purposes; and said tax shall be
collected by said city and paid over to
said Board of Directors of the Public
Schools, Parish of Orleans, day by day
as collected.
Said tax shall be in lieu of all taxes,
appropriations and funds now authoriz
ed or directed to be levied or contrib
uted by the City of New Orleans for
public school purposes, either by said
Act No. 110 of 1590 or other provisions
of the Constitution of this State. All
constitutional provisions to the con
trary, as well as Act No. 262 of the
General Assembly of the State of Louis
iana for the year 1914. ratified as an
amendment to ths Constitution of this
State, are hereby abrogated and repeal
ed; and the City of Now Orleans shall
have r.o power or authority to use or
employ any of Its taxes or funds for
the estahl Bhment support or mainte
nance of the public schools, directly or
Indirectly, except as herein authorized;
provided, however, that ths City of New
Orleans shall administer, use and em
rloy all the funds, property or things
of value now or hereafter held by it
un 1er any special legacy, bequest or do
nation made or to be made directly to
it for scliool purposes, and shall carry
out and execute the conditions of all
such special legacies, bequests or dona
tions that have been heretofore made to
and accepted by said City of New Or
leans and all such as may hereafter be
made to and accepted by said city.
Section 18. For the purpose of giv
ing additional support to the Public
schools, the Board of Directors of tne
Public Schools, Parish of Orleans, or its
legal successor, may levy upon all tax
able property in the city of New Orleans
a special tax not exceeding two mills
on the dollar of the assessed valuation
of said property (which special tax snail
be in excess of the tax authorized by
Section 17 of this amendment), wnen
ever (1) In the manner prescribed by
Act No. 266 of the General Assembly of
the State of Louisiana for the year
1910, and amendments thereof, or tu
such other manner as shall be prescrib
ed by law, the rate of such special tax.
the number of years it is to be levied
and the purpose for which the tax Is
Intended shall have been by said Board
submitted at an election to a vote or
the property taxpayers of ths City or
New Orleans entitled to vote under tne
laws of this State, who shall have been
assessed for property In said city as
shown by the last assessment made
prior to the submission of the proposi
tion to the said property taxpayers ana
(2) a majority of the same in number
and amount voting at said election shall
have voted therefor. The levy by said
Board of any tax so authorized shall be
certified, assessed, collected and paid In
the manner prescribed by Section 17 of
this amendment. , , _
Bection 19. The Board of Directors
of the Public Schools Parish of Orleans,
or Its legal successor, shall not capi
talize the wnole or any part of the
taxes which by this amendment It is au
thoMzed to levy, nor fund the same into
bonds, nor borrow money in anticipation
of the collection thereof; provided that
said Board may, in any calendar your,
tn anticipation of the collection of the
taxes of such calendar year and for the
purpose for which such taxes ere levied,
borrow euch sums as shall not be in ex
cess of the amount xf its uncollected
taxes of such year, and may issue its
notes or other evidences of Indebtedness
therefor, and such sums, notes or other
evidences of indebtedness shall be pay
able only out of the taxes of the calen
do r year In whi ch saldloan or loans
other funds or moneys whatever; p<
vtded, however, no moneys shall be b
rowed by said Board for any other pu
poses than current purposes, and in no
event shall any money be borrowed by
said Board to make or to pay for per
manent Improvements; and provided
further, that said Board shall not make
any contract or Incur any debt or obll
cation unless sufficient funds not other
wise appropriated, to pay and discharge
the same are actually in the treasury
of said Beard at the time of making
■aid contract or Incurring said debt or
obligation and are specially set aside
and dedicated to said purpose, except as
may be hereinabove specially provided.
Bald Hoard shall annually and prior
to the b «ginning of the scholastic year
prepare u budget of its receipts and ex
penditures and said budget, before It
becomes effective, must be approved by
the Commission Council of the City of
New Orleans, or Its successor as the
governing body of said City, and all ap
propriations by or expenditures of said
Board not included in the said bu^set
shall likewise before becoming effect.ve
be approved by said Commission Coun
cil or Its said successor;
Provided that nothing herein shall
be taken or construed as authorizing
the Commission Council or its suc
cessor to change, alter, substitute or
eliminate any of the Items of the
budget thus submitted; the true In
tent and meaning hereof being that
the said council or Its successors shall
have no authority whatsoever In or
over said budget, except to the extent
of ascertaining whether the proposed
expenditures as exhibited by said
budget are within the probable and
estimated revenues of said Board of
Directors of the Public Schools, Par
ish of Orleans.
Section 20. The inhibition herein
established against the City of New
Orleans and the Board of Directors of
the Public Schools, Parish of Orleans,
or either of them, borrowing money,
anticipating their revenues, capitaliz
ing their funds or issuing notes of
other evidences of debt, shall apply
to all boards, commissions or bodies
created by or under the authority of
the Common Council of the City of
New ftr!f»n.'*. o »?* -mccessor as the
governing b*»<ly <>f so id city
Section 21 Tr.e pr -vL ms hereof
are self-operative, and the City oi
New Orleans and the several boards
and bodies Verein referred to sha! 5
carry the same into effect.
Bo it furtner eua.: e fI etc., that tru
amendment proposed b> this act shali
be submitted to the electors of the
State for them approval or rejection
at the Congressional election to be
held on the first Tuesday after the
first Monday In the month of Novem
ber 1316: that there shall be printed
on 'the official ballots to be used at
said Flection the words:
"For 'he proposed amendment to
the Constitution of the State Louis
iana pro\ i'ti'ig for the fundir. of cer
tain debt.-- i>r the City of New Orleans
and of th- Board of Directors of the
Public School-. Tarlsh of Orleans."
and the words:
"Against the pioposed amendment t<
the Constitution of the ; te of Louis
iana providin'.; for the i ' of • i
tain d »r of !he ettv O N 1
and of •*" -Hoard of II**'
Publi« • Par» » f> •
and t.Vn> ' ' •
on the - • 1 - i-'n
bv the i nf
State. •• r '
the pro
Spnker
fives
Lim
it.
»-PP
Govern-' of the A. et. -•
A true copy:
JAMES J. BAILET.
Secretary of State.
u *,ai*«iana
A.t No. 13
House Bill No. 5. By Mr. Helnta.
JOINT RESOLUTION
Proposing an amendment to Article 11$
of lh<* Constitution of the State of
Louisiana on the subject of Juvenile
Courts. ,
Section 1. Be it resolved by ths
General Assembly of the State of Lou
iiana two-thlrda of all the members
lected to each House concurring, that
he fifth section of Article 118 of tha
■onstitution o.f tha Stats of Louisiana
K and tb* sum 1« bwthjr
Section 2. Ee it further resolved,
etc., that this proposed amendment
Shall ba submitted to the qualified elec
tors of the State for adoption or rejec
tion at the Congressional election to be
held on Tuesday, November 7, 1916.
Section 3. Be it further resolved,
stc., that on tho official ballots to be
used at said election there shall be
placed the words: "For the proposed
amendment to Article 118 of the Con
stitution of Louisiana," and the words,
"Against the proposed amendment to
Article 118 of the Constitution of Lou
isiana," and each elector shall indicate
as provided in the general election
laws of this State, for which of ths
propositions he votes.
HEWITT BOUANCHAUD,
Speaker of the House of Representa
tives.
BTHELRED M. STAFFORD.
President Pro Tempore of the Senate.
Approved: June 16, 1916,
R. G. PLEASANT.
Governor of the State of Louisiana.
A true copy:
JA' IS J. BAILEY,
>cretary of State.
Act No. 28
Senate Bill No. 77. By Mr. Leon R.
Smith.
AN ACT
Proposing an amendment to Article
270 of the Constitution of the Skate
of Louisiana, relative to the voting
and levying of special taxes in aid
of public improvements.
Section 1. Be it resolved by the
General Assembly of the State of Lou
isiana, two-thirds of all members
elected to each House concurring, That
Article 270 of the Constitution of the
State of Louisiana be amended so as
to read as follows:
Article 270. The General Assembly
shall have power to enact general laws
authorizing the parochial, ward and
municipal authorities of the State, by
a vote of a majority of the property
tax payers, in number entitled to vote
under the provisions of this Constitu
tion, and in value, to levy special taxez
In aid of public improvements, railway
enterprises, river transportation lines,
such as steamboat and barge lines, and
navigation canals; provided, that such
a tax shall not exceed the rate of five
mill# per annum nor extend for a long
er period than ten years; and provid
ed, further, that no taxpayer shall be
permitted to vote at such election un
less he shall have been assessed for
property, the year previous, in the
parish, ward or municipality to be af
fected.
Section 2. Be It further resolved,
etc.. That the foregoing amendment to
the Constitution of the State of Lou
iana be submitted to the electors of
the State at the next election for Rep
resentatives in Congress, to be holden
on the first Tuesday after the first
Monday in November, 1916, and on the
official ballots to be used at said elec
tion shall be placed the words: "For
the proposed amendment to Article
270 of the Constitution of th£ State of
Louisiana," and the words, "Against
the proposed amendment to Article 27C
of the Constitution of the State of
Louisiana," and each elector shall In
dicate, as provided in the general elec
tion laws of the State, for which of th«
propositions, "for" or "against," ht
votes for.
FERNAND MOUTON,
Lieutenant Governor and President of
_________ BOUANCHAUD,
Speaker of the House of Representa
tives.
Approved; June 23, 1916.
R. G. PLEASANT,
Governor of the State of Louisiana
A true copy:
JAMES J. BAILET,
Secretary of State.
Act No. 68
Fly Mr. Kantz, Chairman, Committee or
City Affairs. Substitute for Hous*
Bill No. 178, by Mr. Barrett.
A JOINT RESOLUTION.
Proposing an amendment to the Con
stitution of the State of Louisiana
granting to the City of New Orlean
power to construct, equip, maintaii
and operate, through and by th*
Public Belt Railroad Commission o
the City of New Orleans, bridges an
tunnels across the. Mississippi Rive
at or near New Orleans, and to d
various acts incidental thereto an<
to the operation generally of th<
Public Belt Railroad system of th<
City of New Orleans, and previdinr
for the submission of said amend
ment to the electors of the State foi
their approval or rejection.
Section 1. Be it enacted by the
General Assembly of the State of Lou
isiana. two-thirds of ail the member.
elected to each House concurring, that
subject to the ratification and approv
al of the electors of the State, the
Constitution of the State be amended
by Incorporating therein the following
provisions, to-w-it:
(1) The City of New Orleans is
hereby granted plenary and exclusive
power, by such means and methods as
It may deem meet and proper not in
conflict with the provisions of this
amendment;
(a) To construct, equip, maintain
and operate across the Mississippi Riv
er, at or near New Orleans, bridges
and tunnels for railroad and highway
use, together with all approaches, rail
road and highway connections, roads,
roadways, railroads, terminals, water
craft and other structures, improve
ments, facilities and accessories there
unto appertaining;
(b) To acquire, by expropriation or
otherwise, the property, ownership,
use or possession of any lands or other
things necessary for the construction,
equipment, maintenance or operation
of any such bridge or tunnel and ap
purtenances; and
(c) To lay out, open, close, alter or
change the route of any roadway, non
navlgable stream or drain over which
the approaches of any such bridge or
tunnel, or over which any part of the
Public Belt Railroad system of the
City of New Orleans shall extend.
(2) The City of New Orleans is
further hereby granted power, for the
purpose of constructing any such
bridges or tunnels and appurtenances,
and for the purpose of acquiring the
lands or other things necessary there
to, to issue its obligations in such
forms, numbers, denominations and
amounts, at such times and prices and
upon such terms and conditions as to
maturities, rates and payment of in
terest and final redemption a3 the said
City of New Orleans may deem advis
able, subject to the following limita
tions:
(a) Except as may be herein other
wise provided, all -such obligations
shall be secured solely and only by
Hens and mortgages upon and against
s»jch bridges or tunnels and appurte
nances. and the lands or other things
necessary thereto, and by a lien and
pledge upon the net revenues derived
from the operation thereof, and shall
be paid therefrom and from no other
source or sources whatsoever except
as otherwise stipulated herein, and net
by any tax or assessment or levy
upon any taxable property in the City
of New Orleans, nor out of any other
funds, revenues or things of value of
said city; the true intent and meaning
hereof being that save and except to
the extent, out of the funds, and in the
manner herein stated, the City of New
Orleans shall never be liable for, nor
shall it assume, any debt, liability or
obligation Incurred or created in the
execution of the provisions hereof.
(b) During the period of construc
tion of such bridfeeS and tunnels and
appurtenances, and during such times
ss the revenues from the operation
hereof shall not be sufficient to pro
vide for the Interest on, and for the re
demption of, any and all of the ob
ligations hereinabove authorized to
4« issued, say and all of sucb obilga
all accrued interest shall be paid
from the net revenues of the Public
Belt Railroad system of thé City of
New Orleans to such extent as may be
required, after providing in the man
ner prescribed by Act No. 179 of the
General Assembly of the State of Lou
isiana, session of 1908, for the pay
ment of the principal and interest of
any bonds authorized by said Act No.
179 of 1908, whether heretofore or
hereafter issued.
(3) Any bridges or tunnels and ap
purtenances thereof constructed,
equipped, maintained or operated by
the City of New Orleans under the au
thority hereby conferred, and all
other property acquired by the
City of New Orleans under the pro
visions of this amendment, shall form
and are hereby constituted an
integral part of the Public Belt
Railroad system, as It now or as it
may hereafter exist, which said sys
tem the City of New Orleans Is here
by authorized to extend and operate
in and beyond the Parish of Orleans;
and the Public Belt Railroad Commis
sion of the City of New Orleans is
hereby vested with the same powers
with respect to the Public Belt Rail
road system as well as with respect to
such bridgea, tunnels, appurtenances
and property, their acquisition, con
struction, operation and development
as are now vested in said Commission
by Act No. 179 of the General Assem
bly of the State of Louisiana, session
of 1908, with respect to the Public
Belt Railroad as presently establish
ed.
The Public Belt Railroad Commis
sion is hereby authorized without
prior authority or approval therefor by
the Commission Council of the City of
New Orleans, to expend out of any of
its revenues and for tho purpose of
constructing such bridges or tunn.ls
a sum nftt to exceed twenty-five thou
sand dollars on any one contract, pro
vided, however, that all disbursements
beyond said sum shall be made only
after they shall have been first author
ized and approved by the Commission
Council of the City of New Orleans.
(4) The Public Belt Railroad Com
mission, under such terms and condi
tions as It may deem advisable, shall
have the right to switch, handle or
convey, in continuous movement, for .
any rgilroad, trains over such bridges
>r through such tunnels and over ths
main lines of the Public Belt Railroad i
to the depot or yard of said railroad, or
to any union passenger depot or union
terminal of the Public Belt Railroad
system: it being understood that th* j
sole purpose of this provision is to fa- i
ilitate the movement of trains enter
ng the City of New Orleans on the
ast or west bank of the Mississippi
tiver. Under no condition can the
'ublic Belt Railroad Commission
rant switching privileges to any
allroad over the Public Belt Railroad
system.
(5) Any bridge or tunnel construct
ed and any appurtenances thereof, and
iny lands or other things necessary
hereto, acquired or constructed under
he provisions of th's amendment, and
iny and all property leased to or by
the City of New Orleans for the pur
>ose of this amendment, during the
'ife of the lease, shall be exempt from
'«very form of taxation, special assess
ment or license, and shall in ".o man
ner be hypothecated, leased or alien
ated except and only to further the ac
quiring of other property or proper
ties for the Public Belt Railroad sya- |
(6) The provisions of this amend
ment shall constitute a contract be
tween the holders of any and all ob
ligations issued thereunder, the State
of Louisiana and the City of New Or
leans.
(7) None of the provisions of this
amendment shall be construed or in
terpreted so a3 to conflict with the
provisions of Act No. 4 of the General
Assembly of the State of Louisiana,
session of 1916, being a Joint Resolu
tion proposing an amendment to the
Constitution of the State providing for
the funding of certain debts of the
City of New Orleans and of the Board
of Directors of the Public Schools,
Parish of Orleans, respectively, nor
as repealing, affecting, changing or al
tering Act 179 of the General Assem
bly of the State of Louisiana for the
year 1908, authorizing the Issuance of
two million dollars for bonds for Belt
Railroad purposes.
(8) That all the rights, franchises
and immunities herein granted shall
continue and exist only upon the con
dition that the construction of said
bridge shall be actively begun not lat
er than May 1, 1920, and that the
bridge shall be completed within five
years from the date of the commence
ment of the work; provided, that after
the work of construction has begun,
In the event of delays occasioned by
litigation, strikes, panics, lock-outs,
failure of contractor or sub-contrac
tors to deliver materials on contract
time, or of any contractor or sub
contractor to complete work on con
tract time, or any delay occasioned by
any act or circumstance over which
the grantee herein has no control,
there shall be and Is hereby granted
further time for completion, equal to
the period covered by such delays; and
provided, further, if the Congress of
the United States shall, after the con
struction of said bridge has begun,
grant an extension of time or further
delay for the completion of said
bridge, then such additional delay
shall be and is hereby, ipso facto,
granted under this Act.
Section 2. Be it further enacted,
etc., That the amendment proposed by
this Act shall bo submitted to the
electors of the State for their approv
al or rejection at the Congressional
election to be held on the first Tues
day after the first Monday in the
month of November, 1916; that there
shall be printed on the official ballots
to be used at said election the words;
"For the proposed amendment to
the Constitution of the State of Louis
iana granting to the City of New Or
leans power to construct, equip, main
tain and operate bridges or tunnels
across the Mississippi River at or near
New Orleans, etc.;" and the words
"Against the proposed »mendment to
the Constitution of the Stat«s of Lou
isiana granting to the City of New
Orleans power to construct, equip,
maintain and operate bridges or tun
nels across the Mississippi River at or
near New Orleans, etc."
And that each elector shall indicate
on the ballot cast by him, as provided
by the general election laws of the
State, whether he votes for or against
the proposed amendment.
HEWITT BOUANCHAUD,
Speaker of the House of Repi-«
tives.
FERNAND MOUTON,
Lieutenant Governor «and President o<
the Senate.
Approved: Jun" 30. 1916.
R. G. PLEASANT,
Governor of ti e State of Louisiana.
A true copy:
James J. BAILEY,
Säecretarj of State.
Act No. 84
House Bill No. 193. By Mr. Powell,
Chairman, Ccmmltttee on the Judi
ciary, Section "A," Substitute for
House Bill No. 3.
A JOINT RESOLUTION
Proposing an amendment to Article
148 of the State Constitution rela
tive to the District Attorney for the
Parish of Orleans, his election, quali
fication term of office, compensa
tion, assistants and office force.
Section 1. Be it resolved by th*
Geueral Assembly of the State of Lou
liianâ, two-thirds of th* member*
elected by each house concurring. That
Article US of the Constitution of tha
State of Louisiana be so amended as
to read as folows»
Article 148, There shall b* a Dis»
tftat Attorney tor Ut ParUA *t Of*
DESTROY THE COTTON STALK
An Effective Method of Boll Weevil
Control.
Experiments have proved that one
of the most effective means of boll
weevil control is the early destruction,
of the green cotton stalks. This early
destruction of the growing stalks ac
complishes three things:
(1) Destruction of all immature
weevils in bolls and squares.
(2) Destruction of all food sup
plies for adult weevil, compelling all
these weevil to do without food until
cold weather forces them into hiberna
tion. This makes the adult weevil g<*
Into winter quarters weak from star
vation and in bad condition to with
stand the cold.
(3) Destruction of all breeding
places. This early stalk destruction
duplicates in large measure the ef
fects of freezing temperatures. ^
In order to make cotton a profita
ble crop, the best cultural methods
must be adopted and all means of
controlling weevil damage must be
used faithfully and persistently.
Early destruction of the green and
growing stalks is the first step.
Where the farmers have the neces
sary tools, the bes* w'ay to handle tne
stalks is to chop them up fine with a
stalk cutter or disc harrow. Then
plow under as deep as possible, thor
oughly covering all of the chopped
stalks. If possible, plant some win
ter cover crop on the land, some of
the clovers being the best for this
purpose.
The next best method is to cut the
«talks, and pile and burn them as soon
as the leaves, stems and squares win
make a quick blaze. Don't wait un
til all the stalk is dry, or the weevil
will all have hatched and most of the
labor will bo in vain.
The effort of each »ndividual fa-nw
in destroying h>? ptalks w ,! H be pro
ductive o f some good Community co
■perative efforr, howtever. is what i*
required to meet this situation in tne
best possible way. If every commun
ity in the cotton section of the state
would destroy all cotton stalks by No
vember 1, at the latest, it wmuld be
worth thousands of dollars to the cot
ton industry in larger yields next
year. "In union tho'-e is strengtn. *
Let every community get together and
do this Job. Meson Snowden,
Extension Division, Louisiana State
University.
incKm^d brooders
GIVE GOOD RESULTS.
Within the past <ew yra'-s artifici
Incubation and brooding have under
gone a wonderful development. By
careful attention to details it is now
possible, with very little labor, to
hatch and roar clvckens by artificial
methods just ns well or better than by
the natural method.
The advantages claimed for the use
of incubators and brooders are as fol
lows:
1. r.ggs can be set at any time. It
*s cot nee^ssary to wait for a hen to
become broody.
2. The eggs are under absolut«
control; there is no hen to break the
eggs, son the eggs or leave the nest.
3. There is a constant supply of
heat. Fggs n r d chicks are not sub
looted to the whims of the hen.
4. There are no lice or mites.
The poultry raiser who is to use in
cuba tors and brooder= should start
with new r menhir op, nf some standard
rqpke. He should avoid all doubtful
second hand machines and look wttn
caution upon the extremely cheap ma
clrror which a-e sometimes offered.
Different types of machines require
different methods of operation. The
dirpct'ors for »mo that accompany
each machine should be carefully fol
lowed. A. F. Rolf,
Live Stock Extension Service, Louis
iana State University.
Bargains
Get shoes for yourself, your wife
your whole family, at the inside
price. Get stylish shoes, shoes
that fit,shoes that wear. Buy them
by mail—save retailer's profits.
Money in Your Pocket
We buy in immense quantities,
cutout jobbcr'saad middleman's
profits—sell to you direct. We
are satisfied to fiet many orders
—at smaller profit—you get the
difference. Once you buy you
will see that this is so. You run
no riiV.—money back if not satitfied.
Big Catalog Free
Our beautiful, big Fall catalog
has hundreds of shoes pictured
and described. It's a money saver.
It will be sent upon request.
FALCON SHOE CO.
Deal 82 NewOrlesas
SPECIAL
Dali
OFFER- D« SCS3.
is Metal Tip, Black«,
Top, M«£sbTso.
THE LADIES HOME JOURNAL,
THE SATURDAY EVENING POST
AND THD COUNTRY GENTLE
MAN wish to secure the spare time
of a man or woman to act as local rep
resentative in the city of Natchitoches
and vicinity, looking after the renewul?
of their many subscriptions in this sec
tion, and introducing these publications
to new readers. Payment will be made
in salary and commission. Previous
expel ience is desirable but not essential.
For details address, with references, o
Pox 654, The Ctbtis Publishjnq Com.
pany, Independence Squere, -uideperifl ^ 1
jjence Square PbiladeJpnjD,
