ERAl
So
volume xir.
COOKEYILLE, TENNESSEE, THURSDAY. NOVEMBER 2, 1916. .
NUMBER 44
' Y '.AIM "
COOT
DOUGLASS CLAIBORNE
A MASS MEETING OF FARMERS
IT r n
IZL, ryson, commissioner, One of the prettiest weddings of the
of Agriculture has requested me to fall season was that of Mr. John Rid
'all a mass meeting of the farmers of jiey Douglass and . Miss Mary Faust
- UbUCtlU WUUIT 1 KJL LilH I J Ml fUHK III
electing delegates to the Middle Ten
nessee Farmers' Institute, which
Claiborne on Wednesday evening at
tne nome 01 toe brides parents, Mr.
....... XT V...111- m - m """" "'.
rTo .1. , ,V "1c'k iKaraes performing the ceremony.
A lSL.J J161"11 Baid meei OnIy a few relatives and friends were
Zm ,r v lJurl P"11"' Mrs. C. E. Wilson played
a,h,e01rLhUll, the wedding music. Mr. WalterWhit-
tZ .V" ": "I ' . , .7 , 'son acted as best man and Miss Sarah
ri Yt DClcv;u"K tt" UB"" Claiborne, as her lister's maid of hon
meHn represemea at this Mr. Douglass & one of cookeville's
r r HTinnt KQ-rhv t,. i F1081 Prominent citizens and his bride
,Ig a cliarmmg young woman who has
. ai ftonn circuit wvrr endeared herself to a wide circle of
w " mi v .1T..I...L ilnends since her residence in Cooke-
fct." Tt. S S.. !rJ MB They are at home to their
"""""J M"uui6i . at. uuuti. friends lit 70"; SnriTif afreet
The nooff. .nj for,d Hi'nemls al uo oprrag street
Tuesday from a week's visit with rel
atives at Knoxville and vicinity. He
ailed the pulpit of the First Cumber
land Presbyterian church in Knoxville
last Sunday.
The conference, or general assess
LADIES AID SOCIETY.,
The Ladles Aid Society of the M
I E. Church, South, met Monday after-
' boon a 2 o clock At. the hnme nf Mm.
U. s. Jenmns, Mrs. W. C. Wade and
mmtA for tha vnnr win ho 2K(i on as ! Mrs. Jenkins being joint hostess,
follows: Bishons. $10: conference Officers for the ensuing yeaf" were
claimants, $35: foreign missions, $59-; elected and other important business
home missions, $51; Education. $46; m transacted.
church extension, $37: journal. $" Tne officers elected were: Mrs. El
American Bible Society, $5; district i le? Jared. President; Mrs. P. Y. Jar
parsonage, $5. . , jed, 1st Vice President; Mrs. D. W.
The first quarterly meeting will be!Dow- 2nd Vice-President; Mrs. J. C.
at Algood, Saturday, Dec. 9. j Barnes, Secretary; Mrs. L. M.Bulling-
Thanksgiving services will be held ton Treasurer,
at Parftrt. Nov So. at 11 o'cionk. knrt ! The retiring officers were: Mrs.
at Alrnna tit nirht i Robert Greenwood, President; Mrs.
, ,." . 'Jno. Smith, 1st Vice-President; Mrs.
PROGRAM 8. S. CONVENTION I M. Bullington, ' 2nd Vice-President;
The following Is the program of a ; Mrs. S. B. Anderson, Secretary-Treas-
SiiTn1f4.v srhml nnnventfnn to h held !Urer,
at Macedonia on Saturday before the
second Sunday in November, which
will be the 11th.
Devotional Services, Rev. D. T.
Cantrell.
Welcome Address, Prof. H. V. Was
som. Response to Welcome, Rev. F. E.
Elrod.
The Power of Teaching, J. D.Scar
brough. Community Co-operation, Rev. G.
F. Henry.
Sunday School as a Center of Relig
ious Education, Miss Day.
Noon Recess.
Training of Children, J. N. McCloud
After the business session, a deli
cious ice course was served by Mes-
dames-Wade and Jenkins.
The next meeting of the Aid will, be
with Mrs. M. E. Morgan, Nov. 6, at
2:30 o'clock.
CHAS. 8. ELROD
CharleB S. Elrod died at Ridgetpp,
Tenn., Wednesday morning, Nov. ' 1,
1916, aged 24 years. He is survived
by his wife and a daughter about two
years old, his parents, Mr. and Mrs
R. A. Elrod, of Murfreesboro, and sev
eral brothers and sisters. He was
brought to Cookeville for burial, the
services to be conducted In the Meth
Sunday School Methods, Miss Rupp ' odist church at 2 o'clock today. Mr,
Education That Makes a Real Man , Elrod was well known in this city, and
or Woman, Prof. T. W. Kittreu. ' was a splendid young business man
Reports from other schools and gen
I
era! liscussions.
PI. E. ELROD, Chmn.,
W. M. HENRY, Clerk.
BUFFALO VALLEY, ROUTE ONE
I have been requested to write a few
notes in regard to the Young Union
Sunday School. 1 am very glad to
say we are having a good school, of
THE NOTED JOHN WEST FARM
' TO SELL AT AUCTION ,
S. O. Dillon, the present owner, has
contracted with the National Realty
Co., who will sell on November 9th,
to the highest bidders this fine farm
in seven different tracts. This is one
of the landmarks of Putnam county,
lying three miles south of Cookeville
Which we are very proua. iror some on Hudgens creek. Its former owner
time past we have beetf trying to , jn0, West, was thought to have bur
have a Sundav school in the Young led iarge pots fuii of gold there during
scnooi nouse, dui our enons were in the war and many fortune hunters
vain, as the people did not. seem in
terested, and every organization was
a failure, till we had almost given up
have spent night after night search
ing and digging for lost treasure, but
no record has been made of its having
hopes of ever having a Sunday school j-, found. See page advt. for par
mere unui aDoiu inree monrns ago, ; ticulars of sale.
when a young man, Mr. v. k. jerni
san, a missionary or the American
Sunday School Union, came into our
midst and by his help and influence
HAMBLEN COUNTY.
We have come with another letter
from Hamblon County, Morristown,
we again organized and this time we , Tennessee. The order of the day has
are having good attendance, trna our been wneat sowing, but all are finish
classes are increasing every Sunday. mg n0W( ana getting ready to gather
Mav the Lord help us to continue our conL The river has overflowed and
community work until every boy and ' wft8hed away lots of corn and fat hosSi
girl in this community are interested, j hut we think we will have corn to do
We want a Sunday school here and ua yet.
we are doing our best to have one. ! ' corn is worth 92 cents a bushel
and by the help -of God, wfi hope to here; fat hogs are worth 9 and 10
Bucceed. WYNN1E WATTS'. a poUnd; beef cattle worth 7
rHAR act PR in READING cents a pound; wheat Is worth $1.55
CHARACTER IN READING bushel; oats are worth 75 cents a
The Youth b Companion does more ' ,t j k me a8 lf farmprs
than entertain: it affords- the reader doine well now
a mental and moral tonic. Its stor, ; Uml ara in Ro.Ile 2 y'r letters
ies are not only well told, contributed ' E 'WZ v-f,'i are talklnc
by the best writers of stories, but thev ; ? 5. K
maintain me sianaaras. renm irai; rt - Oo whv Hnn't
pncciucaii, i ...... - - -
first love is
I loved you
you come naca nome,
better than any love.
ideals of the best homes. Tbey do nor
throw a false glamour over the taw-
ury laings iu ihb. iwiuer uiu? KnA hn't forsot vou.
pict the courageous the healthful me j c k, t t0 Morri8lown on
simple he true life of the greater' A lMa ,r.v
UUUlun wiLil. liicn nurtrium oo i i
conflicts of temperament, their tall
urea and successes. In 1917 TheCom-
panion wu print ""J4 iTOte would elect him if
groups oesiaes imiy tov biukib wh-p' . . An(, BV
and sketches all for $2.00. The lTntnlm county, where Is T, A.
cast for 1917. which we will send on t.. i. i v,q.,h . or.
tures of the coming volume,
Clem Wester is a regular visitoi at
Mr. Western'3 every Sunday evening.
Basil Daniel is a candidate. . One
certain
Are You Thankful,
Mr.Voter?
We are to have two Thanksgiving Days
in November. One of them comes next
Tuesday Election Day.
On that day, Mr. Voter, you will have an
opportunity to express your thanks for
the rich blessings of a Democratic ad
ministration in this state and in the
nation.
The Republ ican party is basing its chance
for victory upon one of two propositions
either that the American people are
fools, or that money can buy an efection.
In Tennessee, their candidates. Hooper
and Overall, are going over this state
jeering 'at Woodrow Wilson. They "are
- trying to persuade Tennessee Democrats
to rebuke a great Democratic president
.and mock him in the eyes of the world.
They are asking you to vote for a Repub
lican, yet they never lose an opportunity
' jtg yote i agaiijst a Democrat.
tennesseans! pemocrats! Send K. D.
McKellar to the United States Senate to
uphold the hands of Woodrow Wilson.
Put Tom Rye back in the governor's of
fice., Make the majority one that will
crush the pie-hunting Republican office
holding brigade in Tennessee. Prove to
the nation again' that Republicanism is
out of line with the hopes, the senti
ments, ithe traditions of Tennesseans.
Ano listen! Before some of you were'
born Col. Enloe was in Congress fighting
Force Bills. He was fighting Republican
schemes designed to shackle the South
and her people. Vote for him.
Vote the Democratic ticket straight, all
along the line. MAKE YOUR VOTE A
SONG OF THANKSGIVING.
CM. BUCK SHOOTS SELF
Curtis M. Buck, a prosperous far
mer living about two miles east of
uooKevuie, shot himself Sunday night
about 9 o'clock, death being Instan
taneous. Whether act was accident
al or intentional is not known. Bur
ial was made at Algood with Odd Fel
low rites. Mr. Buck was .about 60
years of age. and leaves his wife and
several grown children, besides sev
eral brothers. He had recentlv sold
his farm to Ridley Anderson, having
peen in poor neaith ror some months.
A VISION OF HOPEWELL CHURCH
At the request of the members of
Hopewell church, as teacher of. the
public school at that Place, I am writ
ing up the church for the benefit of
those concerned, as well as the sur
rounding communities.
The Missionary Baptist church at
Hopewell was established in the year
1873. and has stood the trials and per
secutions for those many years. Has
had many preachers as pastor and no
doubt but some of them were men
who had not the burden of sinful souls
jpon their hearts; no doubt some of
them cared more for money than for
the church or sinners, and no doubt
but that the church at times became
cold and neglectful of their duty.hoth
tc brethren and sinners in the neigh
borhood, and bo we find them battling
along for 43 years doing but little
good, seemingly, bringing lost souls
into the fold of Christ.
Thus we found the church at theJ
beginning of this writing when the
members had grown cold and jndeffer
ent toward each other; when the
church had been without a regular
pastor for almost twelve months, we
find the members being aroused to a
sense of their duty, and having been
aroused, went about their duty, which
first was to call a meeting of the mem
bers for the purpose of electing del
egates to attend the association for
fhe purpose of representing the,
church and securing a pastor for the
ensuing year, and they were instruct
ed if possible, to secure the best.
The delegates attending the Associ
ation selected for their pastor, Rev.
J. P. Bilyeu, of Cookeville, a man
who Is able to enlighten them con
cerning the truths of the Bible.
A protracted meeting was announc
ed to be held beginning on Saturday
before the fourth Sunday In October,
and as set, the meeting began, Bro.
Bilyeu beginning bv first laying a firm
foundation on which to build, thence
he began a series of gospel and heart
rendering sermons which everyone
could see from the first was sure to
have their effect on the unsaved.
Brother Bilyeu is a great and power
ful preacner, one who has the burden
of lost eouls at heart. So the work
Mt. View Lodge No. 179. I. O. O. P.
held a splendid meeting, October 28th
D. E. Slagle, N. G., presiding, with a
good attendance. The usual routine
business was disposed of. Bro. J. H.
York writes he is imorovine slowlv.
Bro. C. Bradford thinks he is Impror
ing some. The other sick brothers
were all reported convalescent. The
1st Degree was conferred upon one
applicant Bro. C. R. Countiss made
an elaborate report of tho proceed
ings of the grand lodge, which was
well received. It seems from the re
port that the order is in a flourishing
condition, and especially is the I. O.
O. P. Home in a satisfactory condi
tion, no debt now hanging over it, and
the grand lodge was well pleased with
the manner in which the Supt., Bro.
E. E. York, is managing it. Bro. J.
H. Hodge made a very impressive talk
on the Home, etc., showing that the
children are well cared for. Bro. E.
H. Boyd, made a short talk on the
prospects of the order, all of which
was well rpceived.
There will be work in the 2nd De- -
rfree next meeting, come.
M. E. CHURCH, SOUTH
The pastor and good wife, Rev. and
Mrs. R. J. Craig, were stormed Mon
day evening at the parsonage by a
host of loyal. Methodists who assem
bled to "pound" the preacher, which
was done liberally and in gOOd style.
An evening of real Joy was had, and
flhe spirit of genuine brotherllness
that pervaded caused everyone to be
spiritually uplifted- , It was an qccas
ion long to be remembered.
The most excellent meeting of the .
board of stewards 'of the Cookeville
church ever held was the one at the
Parsonage Tuesday night. ' "It beln$
the first regular meeting of the "new
conference year, it was quite a busy
session. Among other important hua-
iness transacted was fixing the past
or's salary for the ensuing year; it
was fixed at a figure $400 in advance
of what it was two years ago, Indicat
ing the steady growth and prosperity
of this church. The pastor made a
report of the meeting of the district
stewards at Lebanon last week, and
announced the general assessments
as follows: Bishops, $19; conference
claimants, $65; foreign mlssions,$100:
home and conference missions. $85: ,
church extension, $63; education,$75:
American Bible Society, $9; journal.
$3; a total of $426.
tain girl say that he was a candidate
.U.akn tlA hue Orrkt BAMA frlrl t ' V fit P
By special arrangement new rab- 7LTn r.iJ
michael.
School is progressing nicely at
Brush Cottage. Parlis Lollis
.cribers for The Youth's Companion ocertaTn fellow in
'CthK', Kio I Putnam county to vote for me.
1917 both publications for $210. M, p , Moody the other
Our twb at one price offerlncludes : d 1 3 8 ld , ,ike to
1. The Youth's Corapanlon-2 issues "'""'-"in-V wna Bnrv c.
2. All the remaining issues of 1916.
I. The Companion Home Calendar for
1917.
4. MeCall's Magaalne 12 fashion
, numbers of 1917.
6. One 15 cent McCall Dres Pattern
-your choice from yo first num
ber of the magaelne It you send
2 cent stanp with your selection.
THE YOUTH'S COMPANION.
St. Paul St., Boston, Mass.
New subscriptions received at Herald Twin.
ARMY OP UNITED STATES. MEN
WAITED. AM bodied unmarried
men - under age of 35; ottisens of
T'nitPd States of cood character and
temperate hshits. who can speak, read
and write the English language, for
information pply to Recruiting Ofii
"r Oovenwent Bld'g., Cookeville.
ALGOOD
The writer has had a spell of ty
phoid fever, but am getting about
well. It sure seems good to get out
Into the fresh air again. '
ork on the grade from Algood
to Brotherton is being finished.
Ocme on, Mrs. Dahuff, and LolaLee
West, with your letters. I always
look for your letters first.
Miss Mabel Peek, and her brother,
Roscoe. of Cookeville. and Miss Clio
Nicholas of Algood spent Sunday with
A. L. Boatman's. ' -. 1
Mr. and Mrs. Dan Nicholas of Al
good, visited her father near Loneoak
Sunday. 1
Mr. and Mrs. J. B. Peek of Pleasant
Hill are visiting relatives around
Cookeville and Algood. '
School at Algood began this morn
ing after a week's dismissin on ac
count of scarlet fever.
The little girl of Mr. and Mrs. Frank
Turner, who has been sick of scarlet
fever Is some better. It is hoped
that there will ' be ' no' new cases.
Hello, cousins Delia and Pearl, of
Jackson, Georgia, we would like to
hear from you.
Miss Velma Boatman of near Whit
sob Chapel is Improving after a se
vere attack Of malarial fever.
Goolsby, Dias Hancock, Albert Gools
by and Albert Brown were out walk
ing Sunday afternoon.
Logan Jackson and Allison Byers
of Jackson county were visiting in
Double Springs Sunday.
Mr. and Mrs. Lee Judd and Mr. and
Mrs. Walter Judd were out in their
car Sunday.
Lydia Stuart spent Friday nighf
irith Gertie and Alma Stuart.
Arthur Brown called on Esta Lee
Rippetoe Sunday. N'
Albert and Milliard Goolsby ofNash-
ville spent Saturday and Sunday with
home folks.
Mr. and Mrs. Tommy Brown spent
Saturday and Sunday with Mr. and
Mrs. Roe Bockman.
Ernest Brown is . at worh at Uock
Island at present.
Mr. and Mrs. B. O. Bockman spent
Sunday with Boll Lindse and family.
Ligon Tprry was in Smith county
Saturday.
Mr. and Mrs. Herschel Stuart spent
Sunday night -with Mr- and Mrs. Bazz
Dyer.
' Sallie Dyer spent Saturday night
with Kitty Bell Johnson.
Dr. Wheeler and sister, Emma, at
tended the box supper at this place
, L "IT-rr-'r LT. J. t Saturday nighL
i wuna-r wnai na uecoui, m inr Charlle Hoftsier soent Sundav and
Sunday night near GaineBboro with
his "best" girl.
The nantor will nreach . Sunday .
went on with Bro. Bilyeu at the wheel' norninar. Nov. 5. on "The Value of ft
and the Christians working, singing Good Name." The regular monthly
and praying as they surely had never communion will be held at the close,
done before, as some were saved, who! of the service. Evervbodv cordially
like Paul of old, were chief among ! invited. There will be no services at
sinners', and also like him were cast night on account of the revival at the
upon meir races ana cnea migntny Cumberland Presbyterian church.
unto God until they were saved. .
On Friday night after the meeting, COOKEVILLE, ROUTE 9
had begun, the work of saving souls , W11 ,, , . . ... .
began in earnest. The power of God mJiriSS hTl 2 gM
was felt among men and women and ""!aHffka" ""'J'T. lHy
iron, then until Sunday eight the Lord . TrJVJ EtSli
or, , ,4., .j ' ent places and people that I know.
. o nmi; Ood in the hiZst for Misa Vall,e Dan,els Bertle
what wltifi?i'f5S'Pe,,t SUDday n'gbt Rt J,m
It was Joyful indeed, to see those ifnii "ah, ai- j t,qo .
whose souls were made happy as they f0', iJSS.? d R"' 1
shouted their praises of aid. but sor- HeJ?. Vh, t wi
nun r-t i iiiiii ii i.i , n n i i nn 1 1 r w iiii-fii Hi'a .
tions that they did not want the enjoy ,wlgSI1Shf?f
ment of the righteous nor Christ as LL.1!3?1? ,d vemb' 13'
their saviour.
Tr" meeting was attended by peo-
and would be glad to get a card from
all my friends and relatives and will
pie from Cookie", B 'gawl aSE ? ZJ7
Point, all taking an interest and some 1$ ,lddr ,,f5l8 M'l4
uid Laiiii.i ywncTUId, A C7U11.,
joining themselves to the church at
the close of the meeting. During the
meeting there were" 30 conversions,
and 27 joined the church, making a
total membership' of 73 at present.
The work and additions to the church
has never been excelled by any other
DON'T RISK NEGLECT! "
Don't neglect a constant backache,
sharp, darting pains or urinary die
orders. The danger of dropsy, or.
Bright s disease is too serious to lg-
pastor and let us hope that Bro. Bil- nore- Use Doan's Kidney Pills as
yeu's success may be even greater in 1 have vour Wends anJ neighbors. A
the future. At the close of tho meet- .VUokbuib case.
rex aor.7Z cncacsD
TEES GREATEST DAUB-DAY
Tudor and Bffie Thompson, that they
don't write to the Herald any more?
Joe Langford and Perry Swack at
tended preaching at Algood Sunday
night. -
As I have written enough, I will
ring off by asking for a shower of
birthday cards on Nov. 14. I will be
22 yean old that daT and wl" be
glad to receive cards from all the
Herald readers. All cards will be ap
preciated. With love to all the Her
ald readers. CORA BOATMAN,
Algood; Tenn.
Alice Palk went to the Chapel Sun
day afternpon. '
: . Alma Stuart is aimpst heartbroken
because she hasn't heard from Cali
fornia. 1 , .' ' . .',-' ,
Virgil and Yplis York were lij Dou
ble Springs Saturday.
Rose Pharris won the prize in the
beauty contest Saturday night.
Rose Masters and brother, Charlie,
of Cookeville, spent Saturday night
and Sunday with their sister, Mrs.
Harvey Higgenbotham.
Walter Holman called at W. L. Stu
art's Sunday evening.
- Mr. and Mrs. Lou Man sell visited
John West and family Sunday.
Uncle Loss Clark has been Very
sick but is improving.
Mrs. Dora Sherrell spent Monday
, , 'DOUBLE SPRINGS
' Misses Nettie Smith and Rose Phar
ris took dinner with Mr. and Mr.
Willie Hancock. Sunday.
Mr. and Mrs. Lan Dyer spent Sun
day with Alice Palk.
Mr. and Mrs. Johnny Grider and
children were at Boll Lihdsey's for 'afternoon with Mrs. Vola Jernigan
the day Sunday. ; - ' ' ' : There Is , preaching at Double
Miss "Vina Terry of Cookeville.R. 2 8prlngs every third Sunday evening
spent Saturday and Sunday with Ger- at 7:15. Everybody 'is Invited to
tie Stuart. . come and bring someone with you.
Roe Palk and wire spent Sunday There was a singing at Jess 81a
wiih Finas Palk. i.gle's Saturday night. The singing
Lon Mansell and wife were the was ' led by Lee Judd. ' Everybody
guests of B. O. Bockman and wife had a nice time. .
Saturday night. Bessie MeBroom said she had learn-
Maude Brown is visiting her sister, .ed 'to love custara since saturaav
Mrs. Milburn Shipley, of near Shipley night.
Gertie Stuart spent Sunday' night Gertie Stuart was seen studying the
wltj, Ruble. Lindsey. ' ' geography. She Is studying, frying
Ova Lindsey was the guest of her to find out how far it is to Briatow.
rimer. '.Mrs. FbY Gibson, from Satur- Oklahoma, and how long it would
day until Monday. " v : ; r - . ' take her to travel that distance
ing there were 25 candidates for bap
tism the baptizing taking place on
the creek below Mr.' Joe Shanks', and
was attended by a large crowd. After
the close of the service little Ellon
Thompson, one of the number bap
tized, was seized with a severe pain
in the back of her bead, and pronounc
ed by the doctor as neuralgia and
thought not to be very serious.
So closed iur great meeting, leav
ing others seeking salvation, while
those who had found the Lord pres
cious to their souls were rejoicing ov
er their new found treasure.
J. T. RICHARDSON.
Vote the Democratic ticket Nov. 7 i
H. M. Mackie, barber, R.F.D., No.4,
Cookeville, gays: "My kidneys were
weak and inactive and caused me 4
lot. of annoyance. My bladder waft
inflamed, too. The kidney secretions
passed too often and were scanty and
filled with sediment When a friend
recommended Doan's Kidney Pill.
I got a supply at J. H. Watta' Drug
Store. They regulated the action of
my kidneys and fixed me up in good
shape, after everything else had fail-:
ed." 1
Price 50c, at all dealers. ' Don't
simply ask for a kidney remedy 'get
Doan's Kidney Pills the same that
Mr. Mackie bad.- Foster-Milburn Co.,
Props., Buffalo, N. Y.
jfceUi Smith.- Rose Pharris. Atin
,MAI, ROSS, MILDRED
I Hon. Jas. B. Frazisr I
1 The Noblest Roman of Them All
Will address the ; citizens of Putnam Co.
at the Courthouse in Cookeville
Saturday, November 4
At 1:00 P.M.
Senator Frazier is one of the greatest
campaign orators in the Democratic
, party. Everybody should hear
' him; he always has a mess-
age for .the voter v
':.
t
4
V
3
f
i
?
-.f-4. -.jL;
