State Hist Society
Taney County Republican
Vul. 21. So. ri.
K0l.Y'IH, M.v-oHn, TUIMJSDAV. X V MM li KU . l'.Utf
Six Pagt'fl.
V
Tuesday, November 7th
This Is ths Di-j, the Fateful Day
Once more we are to decide for or Against Pros
perity. The Democratic Low Tariff brought its usual
train of distress.
It has never failed to do that.
The war, while it lasts, has restored protection through block
ades and industrial paralyzation abroad. That explains the p.estnt
war prosperity, which can't last longer than the war lasts.
. We must restore permanent Protection and get ready for the
after-th-wir conditions. This policy always brings prosperity. It
has never failed. We must declare for a Stalwart Americanism
one that will exalt the American name and American citizenship
all over the world.
We must end Democratic extravagance and corruption in Mis
souri and open the books at Jefferson City.
All this may be done by voting the Republican ticket on Tuesday
for Hughes, for Dickey, for Lamm and for all the rest.
For a Republican to fail to go to the polls is to
cast half a vote for the Democratic Ticket.
You can't afford to do that on Tuesday.
The Quality of Courage.
Mr. Hughes is not one of those who
hold that words were made to conceal
thoughts. He does not wrap his views
in a mantle ol opaque rhetoric. On the
contrary, he speaks out clear distinct.
There is no ambiguity in his words. It
requires no collegiate education to in
inrpret them. He uses terms of com
parative simplicity, familiar to every
man, and he so arranges them that they
express the thought he desires to con
vey, plainly and directly. They mean
what he intends them to mean, and he
means what he says. Nothing is truer
than that words reveal the man, even
when he uses them to conceal his
thoughts, for the man who hides him
self within a verbal web betrays at once
his timidy and insincerity, while one
who speaks straight to the point, with
out evasion or equivocation, displays
the anithetical qualities of candor and
courage. Mr. Hughes is not afraid to
speak his mind, and he has shown by
his record that he is not afraid to make
his acts square with his words.
"We propose," he said in his New
York speech, Tuesday, "to have an
administeration an American adminis
tration, which, while dealing with all
nations on a basis of the most absolute
fairness, will maintain unshakingly
Americans rights on land and sea."
He means exactly that; nothing less,
nothing more. He means that he will
be an American president, standing
firmly and righteously for the mainten
ance of American principles and the
protection of American principles and
the protection of American interests
the interests of all Americans whether
at home or abroad. He means that he
will have no leanings toward or from
any nation, but will maintain in his in
ternational relations a position of abso
lute and unswerving uprightness, with
out fear and without favor. That has
been Mr. Hughes' attitude in all his
public relations. That is the supreme
characteristic of the man. No man, no
set of men, can induce him to do what
he does not believe it is right to do.
He wears nobody's collar; is subject to
sinster influence, concealed or open;
he permits no question of self-interest
to my his acts. He is one man who
in very truth would rather be right than
be president. His record proves all
this. In accruing the nomination for
governor of Ni.w York he said; "No
interests howevtr prominent, will re
ceive any consideration tx.ept that to
which upon the merits of the case it
may be entitled, when vieewed in the
liht of the supreme interests ol the ' tenviw of purpose Judge Lamm is
people." No poer tha- tulo beiequipp-d 'or the Herculean labors
brought to bear swerved m Irom. the j Col. Girdner is not. I3-.it he is young
scrupulous observance of at d-rlan-1 yet and may, after he gains familiarity
tion. He has not changed. What he with stoe affairs, be able to render
says he will do. Fear w have no a- .some teal service in the future Globe
I Missouri First Voters
I i
! Jicmp fets can be clinched by simp-1
I le arithmetic, in the last twenty years j
i a uriori'v n! first voters in Missouri!
I have been joining the Republican
tp.iry. The proof is in a nutshell,
j The Urges! Derr.ocutic vine in this
; stjte w.is cist in 1S96. That was 363,
: 0i)0 It hts f.ill.n off steadily in later
; national rlecti n-, dropping to 351.000
in 1900 to 346,000 in 1908, and to
330,000 for VVilso.i, in 1912. The
total R- public.in vote was 304,000 in
1396, 314,000 in 190J 321,000 in
1904, 347. 000 in 190S, and in 1912
the combined vote for Taft and Roose,-
' veil v a ; larger than that I r Wilson.
During the t-vtnty vear3 the population
ol Missouri, according to the national
census, has been increasing hy an av
enge ol 30,000 a ear. Ni demon
stration could be clearer as to the party
I rtfi-rrt'fi bv the yourg vohrsc.f the
sta'e. I; I s: id ht many Demncrats
have remov d ehi where. Iu aiiv case
the i'iis ol the Democrats who have
btcn striking out for themselves polit
ically. Trey have seen that they can
not, fiord to re V uib'ns in tlea!ng
with the intiniat' relations h nve-r
business affairs and p 'lines. I'tie
Boutbon politicians oi Missouri 'aio
to be let alone. 1 hey have due, tin rn
selvr-s in in the legislature aim con
gressional r'-presenia'ior, and will sit
tight as loug as possible. But a large
majority of young v, ters refuse to ac
cept this view of p ilitical d ity and
opportunity.
A tit st v te-' L-u-ie has been
forme t in Mist tun to promote Repub
lican p-.inrives, l id is pushing its or
gar.tzition throughout to- stale, It is
estimated that not less than 75,000
young men in Missouri will cast their
first presidential vote this year. It can
be assumed that fur the most part, as
throughout the last twenty years, niorf 1.;
Attention Voters!
bode in the White Hous; when Char
les Evans Hughes enter, it. Globe
Democrat.
Democrat.
Nobody Else to Jjme.
Col. Gardner does no: tealL reserve
any sympathy because o t e i light n
which he finds himself, i-l nas only
himself to blame. He nad u l ample
warning many months a;o that hr vas
rushing needlessly into a place avoided
by experienced angels. Mr. Vandiver
reasoned with him abo tne miter.
He reminded him that the public busi
ness is far different from ue if n busi
cess. He asked the nr. n le
thought he could take c ..g of the
management of a larg: v.hk without
iny experience in the nv business
He suggested that he run for state
senator or some other ui oifice and
learn the ropes before . mpti to
head the state govern ner.t.
The other Candida s lor the Demo
cratic gubernatorial m.. ation tried
to teach Col. Gardne i - mdim. r;ts
of politics. They invited him to at
tend the gatherings over m state and
meet them in the d .i-, of state
issues. But for som s i, lie de
clined. Perhaps he u. , he was
not sufficientently p runo n: ilecu
tion at that time, nu, a wou.d have
been advantageous .i... nie iulu
have accepted the i.in.n. Ptihats
he may not have rooted his own
candidacy as much .n expert ir
ganizers he employed to do the work
for him, but he w ai, have h.d his
eyes opened to som about the
pjliticial situation m Missouri. He
certainly would no seal of
approval on the fu m , ,i -i i the
Major administrati unim. d in ne
Democratic state p mi - he has
since been compe e . o v..r. He
might also have g3 ii n,- ot the
purposes ol the fo e, c. i.trolling
his campaign and seeking to control
tne next state ad.uioistrauon.
There is no wa lor t..c itlonel to
get out ot the race ouw. but il.e peo
pie can save bira uuch humiliation by
electing Judge L . ... gov mor. He
his made a stud i ti e business ot the
state and know ;u wn t ii n- cd -d to
straighten ont th a gle. It will be a
mighty task, re ,u n ; courage know
l:dge of men n n.esurts and gseat
There's one thing the Republicans
ol Missouri must keep steadily in mind
and that is that a vote actually cast is
the ouL kind that's counted. The fel
lows who have cormt sentiments and
keeps them at hon e or only takes them
out lor shouting purposes, has a very
remote part in any victory won, though
a very distinct responsibility in con
nection with a victory lost. Evtry
man should do a tnin's ptrt on Novem
ber 7th.
The fict that Gcv. Major shuts the
ladies who want to ii.vestg it-.- the pr.n
intentiary out ol the privilege of doing
so is the best sort of evidei ce of the
urgent ner:d of such an investigation.
There will be an opportunity to vote
for an opening of the hooks on Nov
ember 7th.
What Washington Said.
There is a rank due to the United
States which will be withel i, if not at"
solutely lost, by the :e n.tation of weak
ness."
This rem m.y he construed as a
vicious attack i pm President Wilson dollars worth of lumber the firs of the
has oft--n sujgfsted that criticism of year alter thi war. Her: we have
than half this fresh contingent would in
any case, choose a Republican ballot.
The organizing movement will be an
important aid in this direction. Do
yiung voters, just taking hold in busi
ness, want the doors held wide open to
foreign competiiion, at a time, too,
when the effects of free trade would be
especially disastrous? Would they be
Do proud to fight if called upon?
Young men must do the geting if h
should be necessary. The enlisted
men in the civil war averaged but 24
in age. Fighting must rest with patri
otic duty and personal courage and
strenght. It cannot be abbolished by
an academic expression. Missouri
is a state of great undeveloped possibil
i'.ie;. It is not well governed.
Uuder these circumstances the
young voters can strike a telling blow
for sound national government and
state reforms. Globe-Democrat.
Heard at the National Capital
The chief of the Bureau of Foreign
and Domestic Commerce who is doing
everything he can to supply statistics
to bolster up the Wilson administration
has issued a statement predicting that
European cr ui.'ns will need a billion
I am a candidate on the Republican
ticket, for re election as representative
to the State Legislature from this
Cou tv and wiih to take this oppor
tunity of saving a few words to you be
fore the day of election.
My attention has been recently cal
led to a number of statements that
have been made and I feel that in all
fairness to myself, I should answer
them.
First I wish to say, that in all things
I have the interests c( Tanpy County at
heart. E-verything I have in the
world is invested in Taney County.
My investments, my property, my prac
tice and nr.y future, all are dependent
on the suece-slul future ol the county
and I claim that your interests are niy
interests in every particular.
It will be not only my dmy but it is
my intention, that if elected, to do
everything in my power to forwaid the
suc-ess!-;l invres's of you and yours.
I heli-ve ih;,t my r-cord in the las'.
Gener.il Asse.nblv is one that entitles
uie tu te election and I wish to cil'
vour attention to thi f.tci whh h is tha:
I tn on r -cor l as v jng Drv on evt-rv
Wet and Dry rn-aar th it cam- b!oi
ihe H "is- during the last session o1
the L vi-U'iire.
I v.r, d that av, not only because
I represent! ii a dry cors'iiiiencv, but
because I bi-li-ved it rij.t, and as I
believe, so will I act.
I found tl at a K i r n'ativr's first
t;rni in the L'giil.mre really u lallilies
him for the second t-r n aid s'i I be
li ve I am better qu;:hfi-d to re resei t
this county in the next G ntra! As-en
bly than one who has had no legisla
tive expnience.
If judge Henry I.imm is elected
Gjvemor of Missouri, he will need a
Republican Legislature to assist him
in his work of Republican reconstruct
ion As to my Republicanism, it i
well knewn. As to my record in the
past General Assembly, I claim that
it has not been assailed alter being
can fully investigated and then fire it
must be a gucd one.
And now I wish to answer a state
ment given by my opponent as being
"The" reason why I should not be
re-elected.
As this is the reason that is ad
v.mced the mos', I suppose it is th;
principal one They say, "Dr. Guy
j B. Mitchell shou'd not be elected to
the Legislature because he is a Doc-
j tor."
Just follow me closely and I will
!show you the absurdity of this kind of
t argument.
j The last House of Representatives
I was composed of one hundred and forty
one members, of which forty were farm
, ers, forty three were Liwyers, eleven
' Merchants, thirteen Real Estate deal
' ers, six Editors; four were Physicians
.and the rest were Hotel keepers,
; Plumber . Bankers, Blacksmiths, Sta
! tion Agent, Preachers, Millers, Teach
lers and contractors, there was also one
Undertaker.
Two of the physicans were Demo
crats, two of which, I was one, were
R -publicans. Njw wouldn't four
Doclirshavea fat chance of putting
anything over cn that bunch of Law
yers, farnnrs merchants etc?
Every bill introduced into the Legis
lature, was carefully scanned by all
ind the .fi ct that the passage of the
Bill would h ive on one's constituency
vas the first thing each Representa
tive considered.
Wnv do not my friends the Domo'
crats, use the same argument against
Dr. Ei Allen of Webster County who
is the Dmo:ntic candidite for State
Senator from this district?
The Liw calh-d ihe "Harrison Act"
vhirh imhibits the sale of Cocaine and
Morphine wit'tout a physicians' per
scripiion, is a Federal Lw passed by a
Democra ic Congress and signed by a
Democratic President.
If you have confidence in r:iy ability,
d you believe I worthily represented
Taney County in the past, give me
vour vo'e and in return, I assure you
;h ;t I will look after your interest and
ihe counh's interests in the next Gen
tral A-semb'y in an aggressive and
cap 'hie manner and vou will fiod me
on th- j b tKv-n'y four hours a dty.
Yours for Taney County's best in
terests, DK GUY 3. MITCHELL.
this kind is unpatri 'tic.
The tnai writ) i.ttered this remuk
would te set down to-diy as opposed
to President Wdsou. But the man is
not living urw. His n.itiie was George
Washington.
once more an tvider.ee that continued
prosperity under a Democratic adminis
tration depends upon the devastation
that ha taken place in Europe. Un
der R-publican ercromic policies it is
not necessjsy to base our hope ol con
tinued business activity upon the mis-
Vance VcCor. nick's rcdictions cf fortunes of any other nation
Democratic ti.aj irmes in various states
indicate that his p.rtisans iip is keener
than his mathematics.
It should be kept in mind that
Mexican revolutionists and defacto of
ficials have been careful to confine
Ti,. M.. u t.rc, 'their personal attacks upon foreigners,
-v s. .f v t n. i 11.U4II.J a ui.1 n uiai i
the President nas lost his power cither j
to coax or hoax the voters of his form-'
er state. i
to American ci'.izjns. While they
have destroyed considerable property
belonging to citizens of European
djuutries, for which the United States
will probably be called upou to pay,
yet they have been careful not to in-
Senator Marline clearly has a cause
of actio azunst the President for his
attempt o alleniats the affections of ! Jure or kil1 f'1'"" ' Germany, Great
the voters cf New Jersey.
Britain, France, or other cations that
make a practice of nrotectins their
lefused to take the ' rights under international treaties
and
Mr. Wilson
stump oeciuse No Presideut from
Washing'on down has ever appeared as
American men women
children have suffered the indignities,
a camp i gn oraior.' in the meantime, inj iries and death.
Secreury Tumulty is busily arranging! An effort to create the impression
ipe iking date for the President. that business men favor the reelection
of Woodrow Wilson, the Democratic
press is making great display of the
announcements of two or three railroad
Presidents that they will vop: for the'
Deinocra'ic Candidate. I; should be
remembered, however, that these men
ar and h av been all their lives staunch
Democrats. There is nothing new or
surprising in the fact that they will
support Woodrow Wilson in 1916.
Rol Call of the Cabinet
Postmaster General Burleson is in'
the middle west trying to explain why!
the postal service has been so rotten
for the past three years. Secretary ,
McAdoo is in the same states thimble-;
rigging the public with his "net bal
ance figures. Secretary Baker has
betn touring New Jersey. Secretary
is campaigning in Iowa, Missouri, and
Kansas with a pop gun and a tor ,hip.
Secretaty Houston is in Few E igland
explaining why his department pub
lished unreliable reports in regard to
the wheat crop. Secretary Wilson is
in the middle west trying to show that
ten hours wages for eight hours work
on the railroads constitutes an eight
hour day. Secretary Redfield has
been touring New England and New
York, abusing manufacturers denying
that the war hai had anything to do
with our prosperity, and yowling for
free trade. Secretary Lane is tied, up
with the Mexican Conference, but an
occational bulletin emanates from that
secret conference informing us that all
is well. Meanwhile, Villa is chasing
Carranza up a tree. Secretary Lansing
refuses to b dragged into the campaign
of villification and falsehood, but he is
holding us the German agreement un
til after election. Vice-President Tom
Marshall perches on top of the Demo
cratic tree singing "Woodrow, tit
Woodrow tit Woodrow"! Attorney
Genera! Gregory cnw'e ' into his hole
shoitly after the M-ine elections, and
all he does is growl a little. He used
u i his lexcion in the Maine campaign.
In fine, though the dignity of th' pres
idential cabinet lus been pawip d in a
second-hand sore, it is rem irked that
the efficiency ol the various t epart
rotnts over which these cabinet ( fibers
preside increases with their absei.ee.
Registration, in those states vhich
require it, shows no sign of rec ;ssion
in the Republican tide. The Primarif s
have invariably disclosed a larger intr
est and a far greater vote on the Re
publican side than on th Democratic
and the registration still furthes emph
siz s the disparity between the parties.
Gi course in some of the States there
is no positive way to show that a regis
tered voter is Republican or Democra
tic --but it is a fair tes t to note the
comparative registration in the wards
aud other political units where there is
a normal Republican or Democratic
m 'jority. In the large cities it is hap
pening, invariably, that the registration
in the big Republican wards is much
heavier than in the wards which are
strongly Democratic. The same thing
is mticable in the towns, also. New
Yqrk and Illinois, in particular, are
showing this and New York and Illi
nois, with 74 electoral votes between
them, are highly essential States in
this year of political significance.
Thoughtful men- must realize that
now is the time to remedy the econom
ic and industrial troubles that are head
ed this way, following the close of the
war.
