TSjf"
, Z7?Mi
tri 32V
FIRST SECTION
THE HAYTI HERALD
HAYTI
Population
2873
2111
Readers
WEEKLY
:'
The Foremost Democratic and Official Newspaper of Pemiscot County, Always Standing Strictly for the Democratic Party and Its Principles.
VOL. 8.
HAYTI, MISSOURI, THURSDAY, NQVEMBEll 2, 1916.
NO. 51.
il
I
!,7
4
'a
3
M
The Flower of Hell.
H.v O. S YoltK.
Imagine u storm where th'j thuuilor never ceases
whui'o, instead ot waiting to to liit by lightning, uienurc
hcnt to buck their way right into its face where their
foothold is barbuil wire anil jlootl -where, choked with
poisou gas and witli a rain of shot and shell, almost
every man is striifkby ligh'-iing -mid whpre tlif.v m:iy
stay for days, hovering at Death's door, with the never
ending storm thundering and hissing all around them
that is a euuserv.itive ;ictui) ol Modern War.
Central and roundabout; washing, breaking and crest
inc airainst the steps and ciluuins of the Throne of
Hell, llowiug outward to the cardinal points of God's
Universe, there rolls this black, acrid, mephitic stream.
To it the odors of Hekaie's brews aro attar, and here it
is tint, Lucifer Indies his w.iunds: here Uellouaaud all
the lladean citizen come to lave, drink and bathe
H '11' only and polluted stre.im. Tlpon its edge there
buds no tree, upon its bank there blossoms no llower
- samouc, thorny ol leaf, with stum blood crimson and
its blossoms black. Its foliage is phrensy, its roots
hate, and its fruits eternal despair Hell's chosen and
only blossom by Hell's only Mood!
This, the blood red stream of war- the stream that
waters the llower of hell the llower that lioosevelt
wears upon his lapel: the black llower with crimson
foliage, the thorns of which, if war should come, would
pierce the heart of every American cit'.on, but. none
more ruthlessly ihaa the he.irts of moth r-.
KiMiler, think deeply, deeply, very deeply, before
you vote. Your b.ulot tiny as a snowllake and should be
as white, ii.ay, il you vote wrm.g, sow the .seed from
which will grow along every road hide the llower ol hell,
ou'ii at you very dojr!
Vote against men ol war; vote for men of peace!
, - a
tr
Herald Still Climbing.
4
In spite of the increase in the
price of the subscription of the
Herald we are not losing any
subscribers. Although some
1 stop, we get a new one for every
'one that stop their paper. We
are continually getting real en-
i cou raging remarks made to us,
and stating the Herald is the best
paper in the county. Witli the
below list, we they are right:
L. H. Gale, Hayti udw
Mrs. W. H. Foley, Hayti.. ..hew.
Kev. A. D. Mullen, Hayti.. .new.
J. D. Knight, Hayti new.
Chas. Olree, Alberquerque, New
Mexico new.
Mrs. E.B. Brittin,Hayti,renewal.
Barney Stockmann, Hayti
renewal.
J. R. Heard, Humble, Tex. ...
....renewal.
W. E. Robertson, Hayti, renewal
I A big, now line of the newest put
I terns of wall papers at A. J. Dorris
I Store. Prices rouionable. tf
Another For Wilson.
Men like Mr. Wilson, on the
one hand, and Hughes, Roosevelt
and Perkins, on the other, em
body in their attitude toward so
ciety the larger conflict between
Democracy and absolutism that
is going on in this country.
- The Republicans, as a whole
stand for the idea that the coun
try, should be governed by a
small groupof efficient, powerful ,
personages who will tell the peo
ple what to think and what to do
amftthon make them do it.
Men like President Wilson
seem to me to stand for the opio
sitojdea that Democaacy, after
all, with its mistakes and inetti-,
cioncy, lathe wiser plan, because
it al(pws people to think fort
thentselves and teaches them to,
govern otners oy governing
themselves. By Amos Pmchot,
a former Progressive.
Miss Laura Jeffress left last
Sunday for Paris, Tenn. She
,vill enter the Junior High School
at, Paris.
Tins . i-.i l.iicai thlu'.s iii indies' Mint K.ii heriiiu .iiu 1 wLer
niiu chlMi'ii :its. in pii.-o nun StreW Jr.. visited friends in '6a
Picas y...ir ..N:k..n.l...k Mm-klbj-b. futhersville Tuesday afternoon
HOUSE FOR SALE
I
At a Bargain Near Depot
1 AS YTERMS
Inquire at Herald office
Notice to Railroad Men.
J n the past there has been a great handicap in re
gard to the railroad men voting, so tha-many of them
when away from home on election day w.ere deprived of
the privilege of exercising the right of 'suffrage. To
overcome this, the Democratic party in the State of
Missouri secured the enactment of a.Jaltuown as the
Absentee Voter's Law. If a man is qualified to vote at
his home the law permits him as an absentee .voter to
vote elsewhere in the State. .
There are two questions that,! would have the ab
sentee voter of Missouri consider seriously. That is,
if they are going to vote when away fro, home in the
State, they must first know the county,, ward, township
or precinct in which they live.
Second: If they are desirous of voting for Congress,
State Senator, Circuit Judge and county officers, they
should have their names on a sample ballot so they will be
able to write them on the ticket where they vote. This
should be considered very important, .epjixjcially in re
gard to Congressman. By voting in this way you will
in this way have the same voting privileges that you
would have at home.
I would also advise if you wish to vdte for Wood row
Wilson for President and use the Republican ballot, it
will be necessary for you to strike out the names of
Republican electors and write in their stead the names
of the Democratic electors. Therefore. I suggest that
you use the Democratic ballot where the.nam" of the
electors are printed and write in those Republican
nominees whom you wish to vote for belpW t'hat. The
names of Wood row Wilson and Charles E". Hughes do
not appear on the ballot anywhere and you must vote the
names of the electors lti in number in this State.
The Republicans have given out the information to
those men who formerly voted with thenj that all they
have to do is to write the name of Wilson on the ballot
and that will insure them of voting"; for Wilson. . This
is not true, ihat would make your baljat void. ' The
ballot will be thrown out if you write anything on it ex
cept the name of the candidate in place.of the one you
have struck out. The best way to be safe is to vote on
the Democratic ticket aud if you desire to do any scratch
ing below the electors, strike out the name of the can
didate you want to scratch and write in the name of the
man you want to vote for. JAMStfiOVGlLL,
Chairman D3mocrati(SpitajQ.uimittee.
JEWELRY
CLEAN-UP
OALiC
In order to clean up and reduce our jewelry and musical instrument stock as much as possible before the arrival of
our goods for the holiday trade, we have placed everything in our entire jewelry department (except diamonds, dollar
watches, Big Ben clocks and silverware) on sale at a discount of THIRTY PER CENT from the regular selling
price. In other words, if you want a regular dollar clock that is sold here and everywhere else for a dollar, you pay
now only 70 CENTS. .YOU SAVE THIRTY CENTS on every dollar purchase. DON'T WAIT. If you
want a gold ring, a watch, chain, bracelet, neck chain, cuff links, scarf pin, or something else in this line for Christmas
now is your chance, as these greatly reduced prices will not hold good longer than Saturday, November 1 1 th.
WATCHES
u Mw- I" .) ai'I, h.iulli Ui-uJ, -0 ;.-ur (inlil fiiao, ivjjul.u price, tIH.UU
U Slu lo .lurtul .Soulli iluml, -i) yeur liolii cast', regular price, sISUO
IU hic Jium.1 Klgin, -U .war (.Sold euir, regular price, M2.nn
I'J Me " .leuul W'allliaui, '.'J year gold ciie, regular prkv, rl'.'.OO
I- siis Ifi .li wvl I Ti union, 5!U year iMw regular price, I"i.imi
l Niw 7 Jewel Tiviilou, Nickel i'iim'i regular price, jti.iw
I'.'.sjij" .lirtol Tiwiiiuii, N'iulful vatu, ivgular price, t5,uu
Hi Siit 121 .lend .outli JSend, "0 ,t ai' i mill casu, regular price, 13.00
.Niimliii), hi ulli'ir uuiL'ht'a In Suiitli Mend, Klgin, Walthaui, lugersoll-Treulou and !Ccel
iur imni'iiu'iiu, ut SI'Kt'JAf. UO( K llu'lTOM l'ltll KS.
Special l'rico $14.70
.Special l'rico 12.60
Special Price 8.40
Special I'rloo 8.40
Special l'rico 10.50
Special IWce 4.20
Special Price 3.50
Special l'rico 30.10
Mm
ML
1
TB .
EXTRA 8PECIAL ON MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS
- -
- B V
A regular iS.OO Guitar for ou..
A ret'iilar 'J.OO Guitar for oiilv
A icular IO.O0 Guiiar (or uulj
A regular 5.0O Hanjo (or only . ..
A regular W.00 Hacjo for ouly... ,
A regular 7.00 Mandolin for only
A regular W.60 Violin for only ..
A regular 5.ofl VJollu for only
A regular 1 12.00 Violin for only
Cauvaji cikbos with hul-iuiiilul lcuilur covrri-il t-Uges for any of thu&u inalniiin'iilB ut 1NU
UULL.MI E.VCU. The regulat price l from ?l.5u to r'.'.OO each.
$4.00
. 4.50
. 5.00
2.50
. 3.00
. 3.50
1.75
. 2.50
6.00
LEFLER'S DRUG STORE
Hayti, Mo.
k
. i i. '
1 j . . t - '. I
Jf
. taw..
