(
IT Jaw AnirilYa
THE HUSTLER
Henderson County's
, Home- Paper --
The Ms forSurtV
Tourists V
,-V'
7
VOL. XXIH. NO. 41
V
HENDERSON VILLE, N. C, T0URSD AY, NOVEMBER 2, 1916
PRICE FIVE CENTs
COMPLETE ELECTION RETURNS AT
HUSTLER OFFICE TUESDAY NIGHT
EDITORS HAD PLEASAf IT
MEETING HERE LAST WEEK
sieih
Ceil .-.in affidavits haying been distributed broadcast over the coun
tvin criticism of the Registrar in East Henderson ville over the sig
jVture of the Republican County 'Chairman, Mr. Fletcher, the regis-
J. "--u IV VA
iollov.-iiij;- reply: ' ' . .
-FLETpHSR'S LETTER. J
Tu the Voters of Henderson County:
ii has been brought to the attention of the undersigned that cir
culars bearing the affida vits of Lee Sexton, Fred Case and J. E. Barn
veil to the effect that the Registrar in East Hendersonville has arbi
trarily refused to register these gentlemen "for the reason that they
icuhl not read and write and explain the constitution.' ' Since I,
personally, sfand for the right of every white man of fair intelligence
u be permitted' the privilege of casting his ballot for the man of
hi? choice in all elections and since I believe it is the sense of the
Democratic party that every man should so be entitled to exercise
this privilege I deem it my duty to state the facts governing these el
leged violatons of the rights of these gentlemen which were as follows:
The law provides that "EVERY person presenting himself f or j
registration shall be able to read and write any section of the con
stitution in the English language, and shall show to the satisfaction
of the Registrar his ability to read and write any such section when
he applies for registration, and before he is registered." There are
other provisions incorporated in the -statute which, when complied
with, eliminate even this test, but inasmuch as the gentlemen above
referred to FLATLY REFUSED, WHEN THEY PRESENTED
THEMSELVES FOR REGISTRATION, 1 TO , ENDEAVOR IN ANY
WAY TO SHOW THAT THEY WERE QUALIFIED TO REGIS
TER, there was no alternative, left me, .as & sworn officer of. the lawr
to do otherwise than to decline to register them. -
These applicants for registraton refused to attempt to qualify
UNDER ANY OF j THE POVISIOS ; QF THE STATUTE and
since they-refused -endeavor; to"
action on their part would seem to indicate that they were purposely
liking this attitude in order to compel me to refuse to register them.
I offered' to abide by the decision of official partisans of these
gentlemen if, in view of the arbitrary stand taken by them, these
partisan officials would say that in their opinion, under the circum
stances above set out, I ought to register them, but up to this time
they have declined to submit to this test of their right to register:
This being the case of the gentlemen referred to I do not believe that
acv conscientious and upright Republican will contend, that these
wtn nave ueeu uujusti iciuocu
Republicans will support their action in thus arbitrarily reiusnig xo
show that they were in fact qualified and entitled to register under
the PROVISIONS of the law. In conclusion, I HAVE TO SAY I
NEVER ASKED THESE GENTLEMEN TO EXPLAIN THE CON
STITUTION. , J. A. HLETCHERS
Registrar East Hendersonville Precinct.
VISIT OF SOVEREIGN
COMMANDER ERASER TO
BE NOTABLE OCCASION
White Pine Canvp, No. 213. Woodmen
of the World of Hendersonville, will
have as its guest on Wednesday even
ing, November 15, Hon. W. A. Fraser,
of Omaha, Neb.. Sovereign Commander
Woodmen of the World. To meet him
on that occasion White Pine Camp has
incited all ilic woodmen camps of
Westorn Norm uaroima a"ti he pub
lic generally.
Sovereign Commander Fraser is the
greatest figure in the fraternal world
to'lay. being the chief executive of a
society which holds in its membership
nearly onQ million members and car
ries in its'strong box a reserve emer
gency fund of $30,000,000. Since his
accession to leadership three years
ago, the fraternity has taken the lead
in the fraternal insurance world and
is now enjoying unequalled prosperity.
When the present year closes it will
have opened its" doors to more than
ne hundred and thirty thousand new
members, and have paid to widows and
orphans more than $6,000,000.
North Carolina boasts a member
Rhip of twenty-five thousand and a
growth during 1916 of five thousand
new members.
The camp at HerJISersonvIlle. is one
f the strongest and most progressive
in the state numbering in its member
ship those citizens who have made the
town what It is today and who are fore
most in every progressive movement
n this section of the old North State.
Sovereign Commander Fraser's visit
Tvill be a notable occasion for Hender
sonville and the city will entertain
him in the hospitable manner for which
it is famous.
m Hendersonville is once again prov:
its claim to being one of the lead
ing cities of this State bv "the fact that
Jir. Fraser only visits three cities in
Xorth Carolina and one of these is
-ix ItlCiWltC UICICIU IllClltS lilt"
"qualify themselves such arbityaryvj
oh .
igguuauw", - - i
I left' - - t l3 V
...
11 '
W. A. FRASER.
Hendersonville.
The local lodge is getting out litera-
turP and invitations to all lodge sin
Western Norm uaroana "u
fientiv exnected that the crowd of vis
itors will tax the capacity of Hender?
ville's accommodationss for winter
guests. - ,
Ochlawaha Lodge, No. 161, I. O. O.
F- has appointed M. N. Orr, J. T. Me
teer and J. F. Stepp as their commit
tee to co-operate with the Woodmen
in entertaining Mr. Fraser and his
party.
PRINCIPAL ELECTED.
Prof. J. W. Briggs has been elected
principal of the Greene's Creek liigh
school and will take up the work Mon
day, November 6
This school employs
four teachers.
Haywood and teoiie to
Cast lie Vote 'for Weaver
D. S. Elias, chairman of the
ten district congressional com-"
mittee, wires the Hustler as fol- -lows:
"With the election only one week -distant
the campaign has reach
ed the point where it is safe to
make predictions. Zebulon Weav
er will be elected by a majority
ranging between 1,000 and 1,200. '
The question is continuously ask
ed: 'What is Buncombe going to
do? The answer is: Give Weaver
a majority of between 800 and 1,- .
000. Haywood and Buncombe will
cast the biggest democratic ma
jorties polled for a congressional
candidate in ten years. The peo
ple of the tenth district are for
Woodrow Wilson and Intend to"
support him with a democratic
congress. It can truly be said
Wilson and Weaver win."
ALDERMAN BUYS
GUILL GROCERY STORE.
R. J. Alderman lias purchased the
stock of, groceries formerly owned by
W. M. Guill, and will conduct an up
to-date grocery store, beginning on or
about November 15. .
Mr. Alderman has been for the past
seven years connected with the firm of
Slayden-Fakes company,
wholesale
grocers and is .well known throughout
the cbunty He will occupy ::the " same
building used by Mr Guill, Tm Main
street "owned by EWEwbini;
3 tPheclneV concern Will" bekkawn.-as-R.
' J. Alderman, the grocer, and 1 will
have a trade motto "Serve-U-Better.'?
An entire new stock pf staple and fari
cy groceries will be added to the pres
ent supply making it one of the most
complete stores in the city.
Mr. Alderman is very much encour
aged over the prospects of a business
venture by himself and has received
congratulations from his many friends
who have promised their'support and
patronage.
J. K. HILL "WON PRIZES
BALEIGH STATE FAIR.
Henderson county was ruepresented
at .the state fair in Raleigh last week
when J. K. Hill capture'd two first
prizes and two second prizes in the
apple exhibits.
Mr. Hill accompanied by his wife de
cided this year that they would keep
Henderson county on the map when
it same to apples. He carried a num
ber of exhibits of the Hoover and
Rome Beauty variety of apples from
which he won first prizes. In the
Lawver and Ben Davis class he pulled
down two second prizes.
Mr. Hill is very enthusiastic over
the state fair. He says mat it was
better this year than he has ever seen.
Henderson county should send a larg
er exhibit to Raleigh thinks Mr. Hill.
Several counties sent car loads and
even many townships sent separate
exhibits to the state fair.
- i " -- " '' ' '
REPUBLICAN STATES HATE
THE EDUCATIONAL TEST.
Ed-tor Hustler:
So much furore having been raised
about North. Carolina disfranchising
some white men, I was impelled by cu
riosity to see how many .states have
practically the same educational re
quirements as ours. I found that fif
teen have such requirements.
The thing that amazed me was that
such rock-ribbd (so-called ) republi
can states as Maine, Massachusetts
and New Hampshire have substantially
the same requirements as the demo
cratic state of North Carolina. My
authority is the 1916 National Year
Book and Encyclopedia.
VOTER,
THE CITIZEN PREDICTS.
After talking with a friend from
Jackson county, and In order to keep
im with the procession or propm;is,
Tho nizen "predicts" that the majo
ities in fno Tenth district wilie some-
thing like u ioiiowmg:
wnv weaver Buncombe 600: Hay
wood, 650; Jackson. 150; Graham, 50;
Rutherford, 150; McDowell.. 50.
For Britt Cherokee, 175; Hender
son, 400; Clay, 50; Swain, 250. Total
for Weaver .1,650; for Britt. 875.
Polk, Transylvania and Macon doubt
ful. All of. which means that Zeb.
Weaver will carry the district by a
majority of 774 or more. Asheville
Citizen.
WEEK OF PRAYER.
The Woman's Missionary Society ef
the Methodist chvrch wjll observe the
week beginning Monday. November 6,"
as a week of prayer. They will meet
1 each day at 3:30 p. nv in the church.
" People of Hendersonville and sur
rounding country, irrespective of po
litical animation, are cordially invited
to be guests of the French Broad Hust
ler next Tuesday night. November 7.
National, state and county election
returns vill be received and posted in
-the -large window in the front of the
Oiace, The returns Will begin com
ing in soon after supper and will con
tinue until a late hour, at which time
it-Wjill be. known whether Hughes or
Yilson will occupy the presidential
chair for the next four years, who is
elected governor of the state, who
will .be our next congressman and who
are jelected . to. the various - county
officfes. .
.In, this connection we wish to re
quest all poll-holders in the" county to
communicate with the Hustler by
telephone as soon as the results in
their precincts are known. All tele
phone charges will be paid by the Hust
COMMUNITY FAIR AT MILLS
. 10
Other Schools Are Invited and Prizes
"Will be Given for Bst Exhibits.
. J Prominent Speakers Invited.
The people of Mills River communi
ty are preparing to entertain a large
crowd at the Mills River school on
Friday, November 10, in the way of a
community fair. Prof. N. W. Walker
of Chapel Hill, L. C. Brogden of Ra
leigh, and Governor Craig are invited
to make the principal speeches. Other
speakers, however, are InVited, among
whom are Supt. W. H. Hipps of Ashe
ville, 7.- Few - Shipman of Henderson
ville, and Supt. C. E. Blackstock ot
ithe Hendersonville graded school.
Other schools are urged to take part
tfrH the community fair. -The day is
given to- those schools that can get a
JxsUority of r.their ? children . t6v go - and
take rvrtM'iLei: varioua aetiyitiesy Thii"
iGOj&mag scnuois are. lirgeo -to De ires-
.-ent'with'all the enthusiasm possible:-
Rugby, . ;Smokey ;Hollow, Mountain
View, Etowah, MsCple Gap, and Horse
Shoe. The schools will be arranged in
the parade as they arrive. So, get
there first and lead the parade.
Prizes will be given for the follow-.,
ng: . .
1. Best exhibit in the parade, that
Is, the judges will decide on. which
school shows up the best in respect t
the float and the dressing up of the
teams. The parade will begin at Mills
river in front of Davenport and Wfcita
ker's store, at 10 a., m. and will go by
the way of Mr. Jim Crook's to the
school building. All schools are urged
to be ready for the parade at 10 a. m
2. Best exhibit Of apples. No. Of
vo T-i o-nl V r fiiiolUw rP tlin onion.
to.ixv.kj, w.ixu """j
tions.
3. Best exhibit of farm products
corn, potatoes. Irish and sweet hay,
grain, all kinds of farm products.
,4. Best exhibit of handiwork, based
on how long it has been made and the
degree of efficiency with which it waa
done.
5. Best exhibit of fancy work, (a)
crotcbing, (b) embroidery, (c) tatting.
o. xiesL piece ur wuuU wur, nctiiuico,
7. Best exhibit of: (a) jellies, (b)
preserves, (c) can goods, (d) breads,
(e) pies, (f) cakes.
The prize for the best show in the
parade willbe $2. Those in the other
lists will be uniform, but the amount
has not yet been fixed.
AH exhibits must be in by 10 a. m.
on November 10.
S HORSE SHOE ITE3IS.
(Special to The Hustler.)
Horse Shoe, Nov. 1. John Purvis
and family are preparing toleave our
section and locate at Reeves, Ga. M
Purvis will have charge "f the Hur.
butt Farm at that place. We are sorry
to lose this estimable family.
Mr. and Mrs. Hermon Potts of Hen
J"
dersonville, visited their uncle,
Davenport, on Monday.
A Current Event class has been or
ganized at the Horse Shoe graded
school.
Rev. Walker of Weaver College, oc
cupied the pulpit at the Methodist
church Sunday.
Mr. and Mrs. Vernon Moffit spent the
week end with the latter's parents.
The revival at the Baptist church
closed on Friday. Twelve new mem
bers were added to the Church by bap
tism and seven by letters. A purse of
about $55 was raised for Rev. E. L.
Ross besides other donations. .
W. H. Pool has moved t his, farm
purchased from J. K. Butf
. Sam Johnson and familglf Hender
soirrilie, spent Sunday witL' his moth
er, Mrs Carrie Johnson.
Author Holbert is at home for a few
days from Canton.
Mary Duncan spent the week end
with her mother. Mrs. Al'ce Duncan.
Lee "Allen of Hendersonville visited
his grandparents Sunday. .
Girls, if von are at a loss to know
how to take a man, let him stay where
he is.
- A '- '. i . "
The wise man really looks broken-'
hearted whej his wife goes for a two.'
weeks visit. " -r ' .
RIVER
FRIDAY
NOV
ler. Just call for No. 6 and tell the
operator to reverse the charges.
Not in many years has a presiden
tial election excited so much interest
as the one. just ahead and the Hustler
is sparing no pains or expense to get
complete reports, A, large crowd is
expected and everybody is urged . to
make themselves feel at home. There
will probably be some', humorous
speeches made and the crowd will be
entertained to the best of our ability.
The latest poll published by "the
New York Herald shows Wilson lead
ing in 28 states and Hughes in 20. The
total poll taken up to Saturday was
204,599. Of this vote Hughes receiv
ed 99,875; Wilson, 99,153; Benson
5,233, giving Hughes a plurality of
722. Last week's poll gave Hughes a
plurality of 3,727, which shows that
Wilson is' still making . heavy 1 gains.
The state., of Ohio gave Wilson 12,076
to Hughes 9,738. '
PARENT-TEACHERS
ASSOCIATION MEETS
Prwf. Shipman and Prof. Howell Make
Shrt Talks Several Ifew
Members Added.
At a meeting of the Parent-Teachers
association of Hendersonville, held in
the auditorium of the graded , school
Friday afternoon, it was decided to co
operate with the manager of the
Queen theatre to the end that
one day each week be set aside
as children's day on which pictures es
pecially suitable for children woulJ be
shown and to this the teachers an
mothers . pledged - their support; ad
dresses were delivered by Prof. T. F.
Shipman of this city, and Prof. Harry
Howell, superintendent of the AshevJlW
city schools. . . ,;...--The
president of the association- Mrs.
L. RBarnwell, having resigned, Mrs J.
I. iBrooks presdedi)yer the meeting
wmca openpa witntne smgmg or uc.
tober Iorn by the v PupOs;of the
second grade, 1 was decided to elect
a nfew president ' at the next regular
meeting, which has been changed to
the third Wednesday afternoon in each
month at 4 o'clock.
Prof. Sbipman's address was on the
subject: 'Is it possible for a pupil to
make good in some subjects and to be
incapable of making good in other
subjects?" He handled this in a very
clear and forceful manner, and Prof.
Howell supplemented Mr. Shipman's
remarks to the enlightenment of the
teachers and parents assembled. If a
pupil is backward in any of the ele
mentary subjects he should be brought
!up and the duty falls on the teacher.
iThfl teacher mnsf lParn tn nut a nirttivo I
i ana a purpose Denma tne scnooi worn
and any appeal to the student must be
made now and today. The sub j act
should be put before the pupil in an
attractive manner.
Prof. Howell told the association that
one of its first duties was to take stock
of its needs and. tackle the first thing
at hand. Among these he mentioned
Jheautifvino - the rrniiTiric amnr, th
school building, serving hot lunches to
tne pupns at cost and a sanitary com-
min.ee snouia De appomtea. He was of
the opinion that 100 or 150 women
banded together in an organization
like the Parent-Teachers association
could with their determination accom
plish much.
Mrs. Freeze, one of the teachers told
of the need of a janitress at the school.
The president was authorized to ap
point the chairmen of the various com
mittees. Little Miss Lena Briggs of
the seventh grade delighted 'the assem
bly with a pleasing recitation, and the
meeting closed by the singing of "My
Country 'Tis of Thee."
Mesdames Sam T. Hodges, George
Valentine, C. E. Brooks, Robert Free
man and Boiling added their names as
members of the association, bringing
the total un to about 75. The meetin?
'was larceltr attenle1 and dinrooi V.
work.
BLUE RIDGE WINNER
OVER CHRIST SCHOOL.
Blue Ridge defeated the Christ
gchool football team on the grounds ofiBarton of the Hendersonville graded
the latter, at Arden Monday afternoon school; that on English will b led bv'
by the score of 10 to 3. The game was (Miss Cordelia Camp of the Fletcher
a tight one and hard fought by both
elevens. Samnle nt Tilne "R.r? tra mano
many substantial gains on runs around
the end, and the defensive work of
Allen, on end for the victors, was
worthy of mention. Blue Ridge did
wejl with three out of five passes from
Sample to Swink. Lott played a fast,
heady. gamet
Clayton, of Christ school, gained
considerable ground on end runs and
Tuggle shone as a line plunger and
generally successful tackier. Penner,
who played end for Christ school,
broke up several. Blue- Ridge forward
passes and the whole team showed up
to advantage.
After a man gets to be about so old
itne insurance solicitors give him a
rest.' ' .';'. .
The-more worthless a man the eas
ier it is Cor some woman to'marry him.
Were Entertained at Park Hill and
Enjoyed Movies at the Queen.
Socks Presented. '
The third quarterly meeting of the
Western North Carolina Weekly Press
association was held in. Henderson
ville Friday and- Saturday of last week.
The meeting was of an. informal na- '
ture and was both enjoyable and pro-
fitable to those who attended.'
Friday afternoon L. Edwin Gill of
Asheville, special advertising repre
sentative of the association, met with
the boys and outlined some plans he
had conceived for the association's
benefit.
After supper at Park Hill Friday
evening the editors were entertained
at a theatre party at the Queen thea
tre, complimentary of the manage
ment. The picture, "The Lights of
New York," was of an exceptionally
high order and was full of human in
terest. The newspaper men were very
thankful to Mr. Loop for his courtesy.
Saturday morning Editor Garlington
took the visitors for an automobile trip .
over the-city and visited the Skyland
Hosiery mill at East Flat Rock. Af
ter being shown through the mill and
the various processes in the manufac-"-ture
of hosiery had been explained,
each of, the visitors were (presented with
a fine pair! of socks with the compli
ments of the management. Mr. Rog
ers is an exceptionally clever gentle
man and is making the Skyland Hos- '
iery mill one of the biggest manu
facturing establishments in the coun
try. Owing to the press of duties at home
consequent to the rapidly approach
ing election, most of the members of
the association were prevented from
attending."
The 'association was organized i
AsheyilJe last winter and has about ;15
members. The first, regular meeting 1
was held in Canton early in. the spring
and in July they met in Sylya in Jack
son county. The quarterly msgjings
are held it different points within the -bounds
ot the association where " the.
editors are shown everything " of. in-.:
terest thWieW studying- local; JL
lteTrltoTy so that it may. be written up
b all h 'present. While here the
conaitions m ine various towns nt-ute-
visitors were the gussts of Gordon F.
Garlington of the Hustler who pro
vided entertainment at the Park Hill
hotel. Mrs. Brown took pains to make
their stay at this popular and exclu
sive hotel very pleasant and the visi
tors were loud in praise of Park Hill.
Among those attending were Noah
M. Hollowell. editor of the Sylvan Val
ley News, Brevard; Ora L. Jones, of
the Quality Print Shop, Brevard, and
Dan Tompkins, editor of the Jackson
County Journal, Syfva.
MANY FINE CATTLE IN HEN-
DERSON AND TRANSYLVANIA.
"There is more fine beef cattle in
Henderson and Transylvania counties
this fall than usual' was the state
ment made to a' Hustler representa
tive Saturday by T. Gilbert Wood, of
Washington," D. C.
Mr. Wood, who is connected with the
land and industrial department of the
Southern Railway, spent Saturday in
these two counties with some cattle
buyers who were looking for some beef
cattle. In connection with the trip
Mr. Wood took advantage of the op
portunity to talk to the farmers with a
view of inducing some of them to at
tend the International Live'' Stock
Show to be held at Chicago the rccond
week in November. At this show
many fine specimens of live stock
from all over the United States and
foreign countries will be on' exhibition
and the show always proves very pro
fitable for all who attend.
"If you know of anyone who has
beef cattle for sale, please tell them to
communicate with me." said Mr. Wood.
"I have buyers for all the cattle that
farmers in this section have to put on
the market."
NOVEMBER MEETING OF
HENDERSON COUNTY TEACHERS.
The Henderson County teachers at
the November meeting will discuss the
subjects of drawing and penmanship
and English according to plans map
ped out by the program committee.
The discussion on drawine and nenr
man shin will he led hv Miss Maude
j school
' All i
AH teachers are expected to be pre.
pared to. follow these discussions
from a practical standpoint.
DEATH OF LOUISE WILLSON.
A telegram was received here last
Thursday morning, announcing the
death of Louise Willson ..daughter of
F. E. Willson, president of the J, R.
Willson Lumber Co., and broth 3r of:
J. R. Willson.
The many friends of F. E. Willson
who visits ' Our city every fall, will
learn this sad news with deep regret,
Fortune knocks once at every man's
door but misfortune frequently drops
in without knocking.
You can tell when a woman is in
terested in some man bv the way she
can pretend that she isn't ' "
.Tit
