THE BARRE DAILY TIME
VOL. XX NO. 196.
UAIUIK, VERMONT, THURSDAY, NOVKMHER 2, 1910.
PRICE, OXK CEXT.
M
GERMANS GIVE
UP FORT VAUX
NEAR VERDUN
Stronghold Was Evacuated During Last
Night After the French Had Virtu
ally Surrounded the Fort After Their
Sudden Offensive of October 25 On
Fort Douaumont
GERMANS BLEW UP
PART OF' FORTIFICATION
By
Their Surrender of Fort Vaux the
Germans Have Lost Practically All
Important Positions On Eastern Bank
of the Meuse Taken After Months
of Effort
Abandonment by the Germans of Fort Vaux on the Verdun front,
announced to-day by Berlin, places virtually all of the ground of
pronounced value taken by the Germans on the easterly bank of the
Meuse in their winter and spring offensive in the hands of the allies
again. The Germans evacuated Fort Vaux during the night, says
their official report, without hindrance by the French, and after
portions of the fort had been blown up.
Shortly after Fort Douaumont was retaken by the French in
their sudden offensive of Oct. 25, it was pointed out that Fort Vaux
had been put in a perilous position. The French advanced close to
the edge of the fortification on its immediate front and pushed well
beyond it on each side, making its fall, in the opinion of observers
at the front, only a question of a short time.
Berlin, by wireless, Nov. 2. The Brit-"
U. S. OFFICERS
EXAMINE SHIP
To Determine Whether the
Deutschland Has Become
War Craft '
WILSON MAKES PROTEST.
CARGO SAID TO BE
WORTH $10,000,000
Government at Washington
Has Decided on Strict
Investigation
New London, Nov. 2. No stops to
ward unloading the submarine Deutsch
land were taken to-day, pending the
completion of an investigation by cus
toms officer and naval officers to deter
mine the status of the craft.
The Deutschland had been entered as
a merchant craft, but to make certain
that every neutrality provision has been
observed an inspection and double inves
tigation was decided upon at Washing
ton.
The announcement of the Deutseh-
land's manifest is also awaited with
some interest. Captain Koenig has es
timated the cargo value at $10,000,000,
but its entire makeup was not made
known, although it is said to consist
argely of dyestuffs and drugs, and pos
sibly jewels and securities.
SCOFFED AT "BLOCKADE."
ish attempted to advance on the Somme
front north of Courcelette yesterday but
were repulsed, the war office announced
to-day.
The French gained a small advantage
In the sector of Lesboeufs and Raneourt.
Fort Vaux on the Verdun front has been
evacuated by the Germans.
General Von Linsingen's troops on the
eastern front yesterday stormed Russian
positions on the left bank of the Stok
liod river, the statement says, and in
flicted heavy losses on the Russians, cap
turing more than 1,500.
Efforts of the Rumanians to force
back Austro-German troops which have
invaded their country failed yesterday,
according to the war office. Southeast
of Rothenthurm pass, the invaders are
making further progress.
LANSING DECLARES
GERMAN. PLEDGE
WAS ON ARMED SHIPS
TWO TRENCHES TAKEN.
By French in Drive Northeast of Les
boeufs. Paris, Nov. 2. North of the Somme
the French captured two trenches north
east of Lesboeufs and a strongly organ
ized system of trenches on the western
outskirts of St. Pierre Vaast wood to
the southeast of Sailly-Saillisel, says the
bulletin issued by the war office last
night.
According to late information the total
number of prisoners taken on the Ver
dun front since October 24 has reached
0011. The material captured comprised
15 guns, five of which are of large cali
ber, 51 trench mortars, 144 machine guns,
two wireless plants, and a great quanti
ty of rifles, bombs, shells, and various
other material.
SMALL GAIN MADE.
British Claim Advance in Local Attack
East of Lesboeufs.
London, Nov. 2. British army head
quarters issued a statement last night
as follows :
"This afternoon in conjunction with
the French we made a local attack east
of Lesboeufs where some ground was
gained. There was heavy hostile shell
ing against our front between Le Sari
and Gueudeeourt and in the neighbor
hood of Schwaben Redoubt."
Secretary of State Says United States
Will Insist on No Distinction Be
tween Armed and Unarmed
Merchant Vessels.
Washington, D. C, Nov. 2. State de
partment officials are still waiting to
day for Germany's version of the de
struction of the British steamer Marina,
with the loss of American lives.
Secretary Lansing said to-day that the
United Mates understands that Ger
many'a pledge not to sink merchant
ships without warning and to provide
lor the safety of passengers and crew an
plies to ships with defensive, armament,
No distinction was drawn in the corres
pondence between armed and unarmed
ships, and the state department will not
accept any contention that Germany's
responsibility was limited to Those with
out armament.
While they await full details, two
outstanding facts attracted the atten
tion of officials.
One was the announcement that the
Marina was armed with a 4.7 inch gun,
mounted astern; the other was a news
dispatch from London, the language of
which was regarded as significant. It
said:
"It is regarded here as quite probable
that the American state department will
make still further inquiries with the ob
ject of definitely determining the status
of the Marina. hile it is said that she
was under private charter when she was
torpedoed, it appears that the vessel
may have been engaged in admiralty
work not long before."
This was generally construed as re
flecting gome indications of doubt in
London, whether the ship was entitled
to the immunities of a peaceful mer
chantman.
THREE PEOPLE DIED
AND TWO BURNED
IN PHILADELPHIA
Upper Floor of Three-Story Apartment
Building Was Burned Out Four
Victims Were Women.
Philadelphia, Nov. 2. Two women and
a man were killed and two young wom
en were seriously burned in a fire which
destroyed the third floor of a three-story
brick apartment building on Norris
street to-dav.
NORTHERN NEW YORK SHAKEN.
Glens Falls Was the Center of the Earth
quake. Glens Falls, N. Y, Nov. 2. An earth
quake shock which lasted several sec
onds was felt in sections of northern
New York' last night. At this place,
which apparently was the center of the
disturbance, hou-e were shaken so se
verely that dishes were thrown from
ehelves and pictures from walls. No se
rious damage has been reported, however.
BOSTON RED SOX SOLD.
Purchasers are Harry H. Frazee and
Hugh Ward.
Boston, Nov. 2. The world champion
Boston American baseball team was sold
last night to Harry H. Frazee of New
York, and Hugh Ward of Philadelphia.
Joseph J.lannin of this city, former
owner of the club, who announced the
sale at a dinner given to the new owners
and newspapermen, said the papers had
been signed less than half an hour be
fore. The price was not stated, both par
ties having agreed to keep silent on that
point. Mr. Frazee and Mr. Ward are
both identified with theatrical interests.
After announcing the sale, Mr. Lan
nin said that he intended to enter ths
hotel business in this city, where he al
ready has large real estate holdings. He
is also owner of a hotel in Garden City.
L. I., and hag a controlling interest in
the Buffalo team of the International
league.
Mr. Frazee's acquisition of a part own
ership in the Red Sox club probably
makes him the youngest baseball mag
nate in the country. He was born in
Peoria, 111., June i, 1SSO, and managed
the league club in that city when he was
21 years of age. Neither Mr. Frazee nor
Mr. Ward has ooen connected with ma
jor league baseball before. Within the
ipast few years Mr. Frazee has entered
into negotiations tor toe purchase of
the New York, Chicago and IV ton Na
tional league teams, but all of his deals
fell through. Mr. Ward announced that
he would make his home in this city.
It was announced that Joseph J. Lan
nin received $075,000 for his holdings.
Capt. Koenig Said That Deutschland
Traveled Mostly on Top of Water.
New London, Nov. 2. Captain Koenig
said last night that the Deutschland was
kept under way on the surface during
most of the disturbnnce. So severe was
the storm that at times the submarine
made only a mile an hour headway. In
all she was delayed three days, the cap
tain figured.
During the trip of 4,500 miles, the
Deutschland traveled under water less
than 100 miles, "OS, I should think,';
l aptain Koenig said, 'lliey call it a
blockade. You can judge how much it
blocks," the Deutschland skipper ex
claimed. Neither Captain Koenig nor Paul L. G.
Ililken, vice-president of the Eastern
Forwarding cotupanv, to which the
Deutsehland's cargo is consigned, would
giv the details of her cargo. She car
ried drugs and dyestuffs. they snid, and
each "thought" she might have aboard
jewels and securities. In weight, tha
cargo aggregated 500 tons. She also
brought a packet of official mail for the
German ambassador, and some private
correspondence.
Reports of a conflict between the
Deutschland' officers and the naval offi
cers at this port over dismantlement of
the. submarine's wireless apparatus in
keeping with the government s neutral
ity regulations, were denied both by Cap
tain Koenig and Commander Sterling of
the naval station here. "The wireless
of the Deutschland is scaled," the latter
said.
Dr. George Aherns, an attache of the
German embassy, came here last night,
he said, to congratulate Captain Koenig
on his return to these shores. He was
forced to delay his greeting when he
learned the navigator was in bed. Am
bassador Von Bernstorff intends coming
here early next week, the attache stated.
Against Use of International Relation'
ship for Partisan Purposes.
Buffalo, N. Y., Nov. 2. President Wil
son here yesterday registered "a solemn
protest" against the use of the interna
tional relationships of the nation for
partisan purposes. Men who do this, he
said, "I can not and will not regard as
patriots. Ho declared questions involv
ing human lives should not be dragged
into politics.
The president's protests were greeted
by prolonged applause. He said he would
not oonsent that the Democratic party
be used for any such paisan purpose
The president criticised "men who in the
midst of tho most critical relationships,
the details of which they do not know
make play with the loss of lives of
American citizens even in order that
they may create a domestic political
advantage.
In his afternoon speech here, Presi
dent Wilson said in part:
"It is exceedingly important that this
country should discuss its affairs with
as little partisanship of feeling as pos
sible, because its affairs were never so
critically set about, if I may so express
it, as they are at this moment. There
was never a time when the determina
tion of our domestic questions bore a
more direct relation to tho dclernuna
tion of our relations to other, countries.
There never was a time when the dis
cussion of our own affairs needed to be
more honestly, more thoroughly, more
calmly conducted than now. There is
excitement enough in the world. There
is unrestrained impulse enough, there is
covetousness of power enough. Ameri
ca has, so to say, given promise to the
world that she will look.tt things with
out tho passion that has determined the
affairs of other nations. I want you
to let me, if you will, give you in a few
sentences my idea of the kind of ques
tions we have got to nettle in this coun
try. "I want you to notice that the field of
political action is widening about us In
a way that fairly daunts the judgment
of thoughtful men. We used to think
that we saw the field of legislation toler
ably well defined, a'nd our text writers
were able to define that held with some
degree of confidence. But you perceive,
I take it for granted, that that field has
not only greatly widened, but indefinite
ly widened. There aro a great manv so
cial questions now with which legislation
has to deal. Very profound ana "radical
questions. There are questions of jus
tice, there are questions even of; mora!
health. One of tho things that America
is beginning to perceive is that a court
of law, for example, is not necessarily a
court of justice. I say this with all for
mal respect for a profession which I long .
ago left, the profession of the law. What
I mean is this: Law too seldom has any
heart in it, too seldom has any bowels
of compassion, too seldom has any quick
sympathies of perception.
SIX OVERCOME
AND THREE DIED
As They Entered Ship's Hold
and Breathed Deadly
Gases
RAT EXTERMINATOR
HAD BEEN USED
The Men Entered Boat at a
Boston Pier to Load
Cargo
Boston, Nov. 2. Fumes from chemi
cals used to exterminate rats in tho hold
of the Leyland line steamship Devonian
caused the death of three men to-day,
and three others are in a hospital in a
critical condition.
The steamer was fumigated yesterday
and men and carpenters boarded her to
day to prepare the holds for the recep
tion of a cargo of grain. Gases from the
fumigation had not all escaped und th.i
men were overcome almost immediately
upon entering the hold.
FARMERS HELD GET-TOGETHER
NORWEGIAN STEAMER
TROMP WAS SUNK
The Ship Was of 1,750 Tons and Was
Last Reported as Sailing from Tyne
for Italy on September 30.
Lisbon, via Paris, Nov. 2. The Nor
wegian steamer Tromp has been Bunk.
MISTAKEN FOR DEER
BY UNKNOWN MAN
IN MAINE .WOODS
- . 1
Lester L. Patterson, Town Treasurer of
Solon, Me., Victim, and Authorities
are Trying to Find Out the
Perpetrator.
Bingham, Me., Nov. 2. Lester L. Pat
terson, town treasurer of Solon, was
killed to-day while hunting at West
forks. He is supposed to have been mis
taken for a deer and the authorities are
endeavoring to learn who was responsi
ble.
MAY HAVE BEEN DROWNED.
The Tromp was a steamer of 1,750
tons, last reported as sailing from Tyne
Sept. 30 for Italy.
SIX OF 52 DEAD.
Americans on Steamer Marina are Fin
ally Accounted For.
London, Nov. 2. Wesley Frost, Ameri
can consul at vueenstown, m a tele
gram to-day to the American embassy
here explained the apparent discrepancy
in previous reports regarding the Amer
icans on the Marina. The latest report
makes it appear that 52 Americans were
aboard, of whom six were lost.
STEAMER DELTO SUNK.
Norwegian Steamer of 3,000 Tons Was
Torpedoed.
London, Nov. 2. The sinking of the
Norwegian steamer Delto of 3,000 ton
was reported to-day by Lloyds.
William J. Cummings of Littleton, N. H.,
Is Missing.
Littleton, N. H., Nov. 2 An over
turned rowboat found in Forest lake yes
terday makes it appear that William J
Cummings, aged 61, father of Edward J.
Cummings, ex -solicitor of Grafton coun
ty, has been drowned.
Mr. Cummings went to the lake Tues
day afternoon to close some cottagrsfor
the winter. He telephoned his family at
7 oclock that he was going to cross the
lake and stay all night at a farmhouse,
but he never reached there.
Y'esterday morning Dana Plant found
Mr. Cummings' horse had not been fed
and soon saw the overturned rowboat.
All day 50 men dragged the lake for his
body.
The Cummings family has had many
fatal accidents. One son was drowned,
one accidentally shot and a daughter's
husband was found suffocated to death in
a Boston hotel.
Mr. Cummings is survived by a wife,
three daughters and ofle son. lie owned
considerable property at Forest lake and
was head of a large developing company
there.
THORNTON ACQUITTED.
NEW YORK-CHICAGO
TRIP BY AIRPLANE
Was Charged with Assault and Robbery
on John Colett.
After returning a verdict of not guil
ty in the case of State vs. Wilbur Thorn
ton, the Grantham. X. II., man charged
with assault and robberv on John Colett
of Barre Oct. 20, the jurors in county
court were discharged yesterday after
noon for the remainder of the term and
paid off bv the clerk. The case
against Arthur Locklin, charged with lar
ceny from h
'be tried unti
This forenoon
chancery case
C. Holmes and C. V. Kent. Laird rep
At Waitsfield to Discuss Benefits of Dairy
Show at Springfield.
One of the after-effects of the recent
very successful loth annua dairy show
at Springfield, Mass., was a meeting held
Wednesday night in Waitsfield of about
25 farmers who got together to talk over
what they had seen and learned at the
show. The program was made very in
teresting by calling upon one after an
other of the men who had attended the
show for their opinions and impressions.
bach of the breeds was allotted as a sub
ject to one of the men who was inter
ested in that particular breed of cattle.
ikewise a horseman reported upon what
he saw of the horses. The county agent
was present and added to the program
with a little talk on what the dairy
show means to the small farmer.
8mh meetings as these imply that the
communities holding them have grasped
some of the real benefits of such a show,
that they have taken home some of the
lessons and studied them and talked them
over until they have realized that the
trip to Springfield was more than a pleas
ure trip to them. It has been worth
something in encouragement and event
ually will mean actual money returns for
the time put in. It would be a splendid
thing if more of our towns would hold
some of these meetings.
FIRE WIPED OUT
CHELSEA HOTEL
AND LIVERY BARN
SHOE RETAILERS
HAD GOOD TIME
M0NTPELIER BANK SUES.
Vermont Association Also Engaged in
Discussions of Particular Interest
to Themselves Meet Next
Year in Burlington.
Twenty-five shoe retailors were in
Barre ye-Urday to attend the meeting
of the Vermont Shoo Retailer's associa
tion. Hotel Burre was the headquarters
for the shoe men and there they con
vened in a business session soon after
o'clock in the afternoon. The following
officers were elected: President, C. A.
Brown of Rutland; first vice-president,
L. R. Hoyden of Rutland; second vice
president, George X. Tilden of Barre;
secretary, Frank Hendee of Burlington;
treasurer, K. L. Cram of Burlington; ex
ecutive comittee, Fred S. Ralston of St.
Albans, C. H. Moore of Springfield, T. W.
Ray of Brandon, . U. Hartwell of
Nortlitield. C. S. Andrews of Barre, B. M.
Shepard of Montpelier, G. S. Kent of Bel
lows Falls and Frank Bodney of Rut-hind.
The afternoon was given over largely
to conferences; trade conditions; the
rising cost of material, and matters re
lating to the handling of the shoe trade
were considered. There were informal
discussions by some of the prominent
shoe retailers. Ten new members were
admitted to the association, which now
includes practically one-half of the re
tail shoe dealers in the state. A (5
o'clock dinner was served bv Landlord
Rowen, twenty-five dealers and sales
men participating. Afterward, the deal
ers adjourned to the hotel parlor, where
George W. Dunham of the wholesale firm
of Dunham Cros. Co. of Brattleboro gave
an interesting informal talk.
As guests of the Barre shoe retailers,
the visitors were taken later in the even
ing to Ilowland hall, where the play
ground carnival was in progress. All
joined heartily in the funmak-ing and at
the close most of the retailers were
ready to depose that they had attended
the most successful gathering in the his
tory of the association. The next meet
ing will lie held in Burlington during the
third week in February.
AH the Occupants Got Out
Safely Whf tfie Flames
Broke Out Early Morn
ing:, but' tiy Small Part
of Cont jis Was Saved
Lossi .12,000
WILL DAVIS' STABLE
SLIGHTLY DAMAGED
Firemen Did Splendid Serv
ice in Averting Conflagra
tionThe Fire Started on
Third Story of Hotel, Pre
sumably from Defective
Electric Wiring
ATTIRED IN R. F. D. TOGS
Attempts to Collect on Two Forged Notes
for $45,000.
Boston, Nov. 2. In the United States
district court yesterday afternoon, trial
of the suit of the Capital Savings Bank
4. TniBt Co. of Montpelier, Yt., against
the town of Framingham on two forged
notes amounting to $45,000, issued by
John B. Lombard, ex-treasurer of the
town, was started before Judge Morton.
Charles F. Choate represents the bank,
Thomas W. Proctor and Alfred Hemen
wav the town.
Mr. Choate, in opening, said the plain
tiff would rely on the leeal authority
vested in the town treasurer bv a vote! rustic performers as that which stalked
Goose Green, Squag Holler, Barre and
Others Dancers Reveled.
Roistering funmakers from Goose
Green, Squag Holler, Barre and other ad
jaeent settlements held a high carnival
of fun in Hovvland hall last evening
when nearly 400 people assembled to par
ticipate in the farmers' dance given for
the benefit of the public playgrounds and
under the patronage of the oman s club
As a moving success in which the social
aspects of the affair ranked as high as
the financial returns, it was on a par with
the memorable Goose Green-Squag Holler
carnival at the Berlin street bawl grounds
in August, 1015. Returns are incomplete,
as many of the canvassers who sold ad
vance tickets have not reported, but the
indications are that nearly $400 will be
realized. A part of the money will be
used by the Woman's club to wipe out
the deficit left at the close of the play
ground season this year, while the bal
ance will go toward maintaining the
grounds next year
Not in a good many moons has there'
been so notorious a gathering of purely
of the citizens to issue notes for loans in
anticipation of taxes. He said he would
produce evidence to show that the notes
conformed to the law and that the in
dorsement of the treasurer on the notes
made them valid.
The claim that the counter signatures
of William H. Walsh and Roger II.
O'Brien, two selectmen, were forgeries
ami invalidated the instruments, is a
matter of the town's internal affairs, he
said, and does not enter into tho validity
of the notes.
The records of the town meeting in
1000 when the treasurer was authorized
to borrow money in anticipation of
taxes up to $120,000, were identified
through Kdgar A. Bowers, the present
town clerk. Ex-Treasurer Lombard of
the town identified the two notes in ques
the boards last evening. AH manner of
costumes were employed to make the ef
fect truly rural and bucolic. Perhaps a
half of the patrons came in their R. F. D.
togs and they had the center of the stage
and a better time, perhaps, although a
good many folks who were content to sit
along the sidelines during the first- four
innings seemed to be enjoying themselves
pretty thoroughly. Corn stalks, alfalfa,
pumpkins and whiskers predominated in
the decorative scheme. The orchestra
stage was transformed into a loft and
there tho music was sawed off by .losiah
Carroll and his fiddlers. In one corner of
the hall members of the Woman's club
dispensed sweet cider, doughnuts and
popcorn. From the moment of the first
shuffle-down at 8:30 until the triumphal
entry of Next-President Hughes and hfs
tion as two he had issued. Both bore the I retinue at 0:30 and then on to the sma'
signature of the witness as town treasur
er and of Frank E. Hemmenway as town
clerk.
Here the defense raised a point of law
regarding the status of the town treas
urer as the fiscal agent of the corpora
tion, discussion of which took up the rest
of the session.
WAS BADLY INJURED.
When His Bicycle Collided with Automo
bile.
Rutland, Nov. 2. Ernest E. Fisher ol
Manchester was brought to this city on
the evening train last night from his
i father's estate, will notj!",me twn; Z e I scr'T'-vf ml
il the March term. J,,ir,P1, J" afternoon about o
,oon Judge Fi hear J- the i ,wk w'1,rn ),e, craslu' ,nt? tI,e fro,nt
e of Harriett N. Holmes vs.?f " ?:,t"T.b,Ie f driven by
Victor Carlstrom Landed at Erie, P.,
Because of Engine Trouble, But
Made Longest American
Non-Stop Record.
New York, Nov. 2. Victor Carlstrom
resents the defendants and Harry C.
Short leff the orator.
MIDDLEBURY CHARTER DAY.
Dr. L. M. Kelley of the same town. The
hours the madcap revelers from the Hol
ler and the Green held full sway.
The thanks of the committee and the
Woman's club is due to those who so gen
erously gave of their time and assisted
in other ways to make the affair a suc
cess and for the committees themselves
much might be said in the way of con
gratulating them for their conspicuous
energy and good judgment exercised in
carrying the affair through to a success
ful finis. The general committee consist
ed of W. G. Reynolds, TI. P. Hinman,
Thomas J. Mercer and E. M. Tobin.
There were many secondary committees,
the members of which worked earnestly
in eo-operation with the first committee.
FOUND GUILTY OF ROBBERY.
Nunico Massaro Stole $70 from Man
When Latter Was Drunk.
Rutland, Nov. 2. A jury in Rutland
county court yesterday lounu .unico
man was removed in the Spencer and
Cantly ambulance to the Rutland hoa
nital. where he will be treated.
. . . . . . - . . - ... i i r . i. ...
Mr. Fisher, who is aDout w years ol piassaro gumy oi nuroeri irvm me per
ace, sustained fractures of both legs, it i son in having stolen $70 from Domenico
. , , . . 'hcinir sunnosed that the machine passed ! Rairosto. since deceased, while the latttr
exercises vonaucieo oy aiuaems nai- - . . , . .
,-..t. fl. limlui Thn left W ii liroLi-n iini drunk- at the house Of L,U11I1 GruDPO
Faculty on the 116th Anniversary. above the kne while the break in the! here last March.
Middlebury, Nov. 2. Middlebury eol-'right leg is below the knee. I The jury was empaneled yesterday
lege held its annual charter day last j Dr. Kelley accompanied the man to afternoon to try Alfred Farley of St.
evening commemorating its 1(56 years of 'this city, making a temporary dressing j Albans, who is rharged with breaking
started from Chicago early to-day in an ; usefulness. i Ix fore he was placed aboard the train, i into the rair Haven railroad station lat
attempt to make a nonstop flight to! The student body, faculty and many i Dr. Kelley said he was -driving along (July.
New iork, under the auspices of the j friends of the institution were present, j Mam street at a moderate rate of speed :everai otner criminal cases were li
New York Times, but was obliced to! Dr. J. W. Ahprnethv. T6. nf Hnrlim-- when he saw Mr. Fisher approaching him posed of yesterday by State's Attorney
make a landing at Erie, Pa., because of
engine trouble.
Erie is half way between the two cit
ies and The Time annonuoed that Carl
strom, by traveling that distance, had
established a new American non-stop
record. Carlstrom expected to resume
his flight is m as repairs cmtM lie
made, and hopd to reach New York lie-
fore B o clock to-night, as originally
lanned.
ton gave an informal talk. Harold K. J from the opposite direction. The wind
Hollister, '17, read the original iharG r. ;was blowing and there was considerable
The college orchestra and choir gave se- 'dust when suddenly the bicyclist swerved
leetions. Ridgley hf. 17. was in charge
of the cheering. President Jhn M
Thomas presided.
A symposium was participated in by
William H. Edmunds. '17; Uicy Smith.
18: Harold M. Davis. "17; Ki.hard H.
Btiffum, 'IX: Katherine Ball, '17; FreJ
P. Lang, '17.
from his side of the road and into tne
front of the machine.
Dr. Kelley stopped as soon as possible,
but not until Fisher bad been badly
hurt. No blame is attached to the au
toist by the injured man.
Mr. Fisher is married and has three
children.
C. V. Foulin, nearly cleaning up the
criminal docket, diaries Barrett, aged
23 years, who went a few weeks ago to
Lurerne, N. Y.. with Miss Mary Pitts
of Clarendon. 13. and was married to her,
pleaded guilty to the charge of kidnap
ping. As be has work and expressed a
desire for an opportunity to support hi
wife, the court placed him on pmbstion
for two years with 3") months' sentence
hanging over him.
Chelsea, Nov. 2. The Orange County
hotel and the hotel livery connected with
it were burned to the ground early this
morning, and the livery stable of William
Davis, located eight feet away, was saved
only after hard work by the Chelsea fire
department, assisted by many volunteers
from this town and neighboring places.
The total loss is estimated at $12,000,
with an insurance of $8,000. There was
no loss of life and all the livestock was
taken out of the barns.
The fire started in the third story of
the hotel, being discovered by Homer
Kingsbury, the Vershire stage driver, who
roomed in the building. He was awak
ened by the crackling of flames and he
quickly spread the alarm throughout tho
building, all of the occupants being able
to leave the building in ample time. In
the meanwhile the flames had been dis
covered from the outside and O. D. Tracy
of the fire department gave the alarm to
the fire department and the villagers. A
large number of people assembled, tho
bell and the telephone Wing constantly
in use for some time for that purpose.
The fire department, whose chief equip,
ment is a small gasoline engine, had four
streams of water playing upon the burn
ing buildings within 15 minutes after the.
alarm was given. The fire bad gained
great headway, and the hotel building,
having been constructed more than half a
century ago, burned like tinder, as well
as the livery stable connected with it.
But the firemen and the volunteers did
splendid work and although the Davis
lverv stable was located onlv eight feet
away from the hotel livery, it was saved
with only slight damage, the firemen
working from 4 o'clock until daylight be
fore the danger was over. At 7:30 the
fire was under control and the little en
gine was shut down temporarily under
orders from Chief G. A. Tracy of the fire
department.
Chelsea people were assisted in the
work of staying the tire and in saving
the contents of the hotel by many from
South Rovalton, Washington, West Fair-
lee, Vershire and other places. Several
men were partially overcome by smoke
while fighting the progress of the flames.
Happily, there were few guests and em
ployes in the hotel at the time of the out
break of the fire. Some of the furnish-
ngs in the lower part of the hotel, in
luding the office desk, were removed
from the building. The winter's supply
of potatoes, vegetables, apples and wood
hud been put in the hotel and all of it
was destroyed. The horses and carriages
were taken out of the hotel livery early.
It is supposed that the tire was caused
by defective wiring. The flames were
first seen in a corner of the third story
of the building. The prompt awakening
of Mr. Kingsbury probably averted loss
of life, u hen he was aroused from his
slumbers Mr. Kingsbury looked out of
the window and saw the glare of the
flames.
The hotel and livery bam were owned
by E. D. Barnes and the livery stable
was leased by Ben A. Goodrich. The lat
ter lost a quantity of hay in the barn.
Mr. Barnes carried insurance of $7,500 on
the building and furnishings. He bought
the property 30 years ago next April and
had operated it as a hotel all the time
since then except for-five years when
C. P. Dickerson had charge.
The hotel was built in IH57 and cost
$14,000. It was constructed by a stock
company of Chelsea jeope and replaced
a hotel building which was burned in
that year. A party of sawyers were in
Chelsea at the time of the previous hotel
fire and within a short time after the old
structure was tiurned the stock company
got to work and engaged the lumber from
the sawyers for the new building. Th
construction was quickly completed. The
newer building was of woo,! and stood
three and one-half stories high, having 40
rooms.
The people of Chelsea are congratulat
ing themselves to day over the purchase
of the gasoline engine which did such fine
work to stop a conflagration. The fire
fighters are also coming in for no slight
amount of praise for their effective work,
(hi. f Gladding of the Barre fire depart
ment, together with Alderman Bruce of
that city, were amonc those who arrived
earlv to day to see the result.
15 CENTS A LOAF.
Price of Bread Jumps Excessively at
Helena, Mont.
Helena, Mont.. Nov. 2. Bread was
sold here to-day for 13 cents a loaf, tw
fur a quarUr.
