IIto 18d,6 158.4
. T IE PICKENS SENTIL l
PUBS WEEKLY OFFICIAL PAPER OF PICKENS COUNTY SUBSCRIPTION PRICE ONE DOLLAR PER YEAR
Established 1871-Volume 46 PICKENS. S. C., NOVEMBER 2, 1916 Number 26
VL.H
Anderson Phosphate and Oil Co.
Offer the Following Prizes
To Farmers
Sowing wheat this fall who use the Anderson "Fish and
Blood" goods wben sowing and Anderson Phosphate and
Oil Co's top dressing and soda next spring.
For the best five acres of wheat............. ...........$100
For the second best five acres of wheat........... 75
For the third best five acres of wheat............. 60
For the fourth best five acres of wheat...:.... ...... 50
For the best three acres of wheat................... ......... 50
For the best one acre in wheat.......... ................... 25
Mr. S. M. Byars, County Demonstration Akent, will
name a committee in due time to award the prizes. All
you will have to do to get the prize is to make the yield.
Raising wheat and oats successfully is largely a matter
of preparation and fertilization when grain is sown.
If the next wheat crop should be short flour would
make another advance.
Anderson Phosphate & Oil Co.
W. F. FARMER, Secretary.
LONG STAPLE COTTON
We are always on the market for long staple cotton at
market prices. We will quote l'romptly on samples
mailed us. In order that- we may quote intelligently, be
sure to take samples from both sides of the bale. We
have at the mill an expert stapler, who is a competent
.judge of length and character.
It is important that staple cotton be properly ginned.
'We are glad to give to any farmer raising staple cotton,
who will write us, the benefit of our knowledge and
experience as to the proper way of handling staple cotton.
JUDSON MILLSP GREENVILLE, S. C.
B. E. GEER, Prest. and Treas.
Fall Announcement!
'This House of Better Clothes now an
nounces its readiness to serve its patrons
with the highest grade Ready-for Ser
Men that the country produces.
The Best Makers' Hats andl the most
Choice Haberdashery can also be found
* here. '
* The Best at Any Price.
r * Your consideration is earnestly solicited. I
S trictly Gine Price and~ your money back 4
if anything goes wrong.
MITH% RISTOW GREENVILLE
~~$MIH ~ ~i~i~i~yv , South Carohina
DR. A. A ODOV
Waihalla, S. C., at Dr. Barton's Druj
day, November 7; Central, S. C., at'
rp'acy, Thursday, November 9; PickE
For the Purpose of E
Cedar Rock Happenings
Cedar Rock was well represented at
the state fair last week. Those who
attended were Messrs. G. H. Hendrix,
J. A. Jones, Mr. and Mrs. John Stew
art, Joel H. Miller and daughter, Miss
Ada, and Master Clifton Singleton.
Mr. and Mrs. B. H. Williams and son,
Ned, motored to Clemson yesterday to
visit their son, who is a student there.
Avery Jones and wife of the Oolenoy
section spent the week-end as the guests
of Z. T. Jones and wife.
Miss Lee Singleton was the guest of
Miss Ada H. Miller Sunday.
T. S. Turner and wife visited at the
home of Bob Hendrix Sunday.
Mr. and Mrs. Jim Norris spent Sun
day with their daughter, Mrs. Lillian
McCombs, of the Rock Springs vicinity.
Mr. and Mrs. Tilman Julian are visit
ing the latter's parents, Mr. and Mrs.
Jim Brown of Anderson county.
Mr. and Mrs. McD. Farmer had as
their guests Sunday Mr. and Mrs. Ellis
Tripp and daughter, Annie, of Ander
son, Mr. and Mrs. Alexander of Six
Mile and Mr. and Mrs. Duncan.
Mountain View Items
Folks are hustling to get that 20-cent
cotton out before it goes to 25 cents.
The attendance at the prayer meet
ings is rather weak. We hope the old
folks singing next Sunday will revive us.
It is with much sorrow that we chron
icle the death of the baby child of Mr.
and Mrs. Henry Rampey. It is safe
in the arms of Jesus.
Brotber George Martin tells on his
return from the association in Colleton
county that he has been called to serve
in churches in that county and has ac
cepted the work. He will supply three
churclies and his home will be in Ridge
ville. His bad health in the low coun
try forced him to give up his work in
this association two years ago, but two
years in good old healthy Pickens coun
ty.has put him on his feet again and he
is in good health now and will return to
his much-loved former county. He will
leave in about two weeks.
Six Mile News
Rev. 0. L. Stingfield has been con
ducting a protracted meeting at this
place for the past week.
Rev. M. J. Stansell was called from
school the 16th to the bedside of a very
sick father, near Easley. The father iE
improving and the son is back in school.
If it is good land you are hunting for,
come to Six Mile. The soil is prolific,
John Fields growed a sweet potat(
weighing 84 pounds in his potato patch,
Rev. Jim Davis filled the appointment
of Rev. T. E. Durham at Liberty second
church Sunday night, the 22nd.
Rev. Dr. Palmer- preached at this
place Friday, the 27th. Dr. Palmer was
accompanied by Rev. H. K. Williams
and family of Easley, also Mrs. R. E. La
them and daughter, Fanny, Mr.King and
Hon. E. P. McCravey and family. They
were here in interest of the Six Mile
school. GRAY EYES.
From Cateechee
After being away from the shop for
about five months on account of ill health
the many friends of J. J. Newton, of
the firm of D. M. and J. J. Newton
general repair shop of Norris. are glad
to know that he is able to be back in
the shop and do light work. The New
ton brothers are known far and wide to
be the best blacksmiths in the county.
They have just recently added two more
good smiths, one of whom has had sev
eral years experience, to the firm, mak
ing four first class wood and iron work
men. When anyone brings them a job
now it is clone at once.
Messrs. J. C. Garrett and Sons, of
Norris, have just irecently opened up a
first class ginnery. They have the 70
saw gin of the Lummus make, air blast
system. They are making a good turn
out and are ginning a good deal of cot
ton. They pay the top notch for cotton
and cotton seed, and handle meal, huills
and fertilizer. 1B.
Quarterly Conference
Mr. Editor: Please annonnee that
the 4th quarterly Conference (Pickens
county) will meet on Saturday morning
at Porters Chapel. The presiding Eldei
will prieach at 11 o'clock a. m. Welcome
to all. S. 13. WUrrE,
Pr-eacher in Charge.
Mrs. Florence Griffin and Mrs. T. A.
Bowen spent last week visiting relatives
in Greenville.
I, the Well
Y SPECIAL REQI
Store, Monday, N
Central Hotel, Wed
~ns, S. C., at Keowe
xamining Eyes an
Birthday Celebration
The children af Rev. and Mrs. W. C
Seaborn gave them a great surprise las
Thursday when they began to gather al
their home bringing presents and well
filled baskets. Thusday, October 26
was the birthday of both Mr. and. Mrs
Seaborn. This was a day long to be re
membered by all present. The morninj
was spent in conversation and song ser
vice, while the afternoon was spent it
prayer and song service, several of the
older men making talks, commentitin
on the life of Rev. Mr. Seaborn.. A
bountiful dinner was served. Mr. Sea,
born made a short talk himself, telling
how he and Mrs. Seaborn had climbet
the hill of life together and of the bles.
sings that had been bestowed upor
them. He is now 63 years of age an<
Mrs. Seaborn is 60. They have rearec
a family of ten children, all living ex.
ce tone.
May this happy family enjoy nan3
more such reunions is the wish of a hosi
of friends.
From Joel H. Miller
Mr. Editor: If you will indulge th
i writer I shall endeavor to place a few
facts before the readers of your paper,
n a condensed form; facts that the pub
lic hasn't learned, as the pressbias beer
very limited in making known to th<
people. I am writing concerning th(
action of the State Democratic execu
tive committee that met after the Iasi
primary to hear the complaints fron
the different counties and to declare the
election of the primary. We learnet
that there were complaints of fraud, in,
timidation, coercion, etc. Now, Mr,
Editor, I have investigated the questior
along with many others from the vari
ous counties of the state. What did w(
learn to our surprise? That there weri
about fifteen hundred sworn complainti
that came before the state committec
to la investigated. What did they dol
This state executive committee waE
thought to be white democrats, dealing
with white democrats, so we as demo.
crats Could settle our differences among
ourselves, and keep ths negro outas fai
as the primary was concerned. Now,
we know the anti-Blease faction waE
greatly in the majority. I am fearfu
that a majority of this committce whicl
refused to hear these hundreds of sworr
complaints of various kinds will licai
the condemnation of all true and trie<
democrats of this state heaped upor
them for this inconsistency, treating
justice and right with contempt. Oh,
yes, in 1912 when Blease was countet
in over Jones, the complaint was "ther<
is fraud in the primary." Complaint:
came in and what did they do? Thi:
committee was anti-Blease then. Di<
Blease object to having the primary in
vestigrted? No, Blease told them t
investigate as much as they pleased
that he didn't want the nomination ii
it was tainted with fraud. That, Mr.
Editor, "spells" a true, honest, whit(
democrat. Now, Mr. Editor, as I have
seen many of these sworn statementE
of where men were threatened witi
foreclosure of mortgages of their homes
if they voted for Blease, many threats
of closing papers on their household
goods, turning them out into the street
or big road without anything except
their wearing apparel, others threaten
ed with suspension of their jobs, many
of their sworn statements had various
bills of money pinned to them that had
been given them to vote for R. I. Man
ning. Now, Mr. Editor, in conclusion I
want to say to every white voting citi
zen to obliterate all malice and hatred
that might have been caused by a one
sided press and see what we are coming
to, with the corporations and moneyed
interests swaying the masses of the
people, intimididatig, coercing, threat
enmng them with their money and infiu
ence, to do their bidding, not allowing
a hearing on the violating of the pri
mary election lawvs. They have bought
you like cattle and scared you like sheeP.
Now, like the slaves of old, we wvill pay
no attention to your grievances. That
has been the slogan of capitalists since
Abraham. (Gen. 14 clh.)
Now let us as true Americans, an
white South Carolina (democrats, place
the seal of our disfavor upon this state
committee ruling and its nominee at the
ballot box on November 7, and make
caution to future committees and nom.
inees. JIoE, H. MiIniaon.
Jesse J. Jones, an 01(1 andl highly re
spected citizen of the Six Mile section
died Wednesday, the 25th inst., froma
stroke of paralysis. Two weeks agc
Mr. Jones sufferedl a slight stroke of
paralysis, but was up and about until
Friday, the 20th, when he suffereda
second stroke from which he (lied. Hisi
wife survives. He was sixty years of
age and was well liked by all who knew
him. His remains wvere laid to rest in
the Six Mile cemetery last Thursday.
-Known Gi
TEST WILL BE A'
ovember 6; Westm:
nesday, November
e Pharmacy, Frida
d Fitting Glases
++a
GOOD VALUES IN
MER CHAN D ISE!
: C. D. STRADLEY & CO.
GREENVILLE, S. C.
Gloves Sweaters
White Kid Gloves, $1.25, Children's Sweaters, red,
$1.50, $1.65 and $2.00- navy and white, $1.50,
Black Kid Gloves, $1.25, $1.98 and $2.50.
$1. 50, $1.65 an(d $2.00.
X Plain black gloves with Ladies' Sweaters, red, co
white embroidery.
Plain white gloves with penhagen, navy and white,
black embroidered back. $2.50, $2.98, $3.98 to $10.00.
Gray gloves, $2.00,
New shades in tan and Sweater Suits for chll
brown, $1.25 and $1.50. dren.
All Mail Orders Filled Promptly
A RANG& ON WHICI
DAUGHTER CAN 00MPETE WIT MOTlER
If a Range is Judged by the Work it Does
The Princess Rules -the Kitchen.
Meals on time, at less cost, in more comfort, are some
of the PRINCESS' features. Look for thieriame.
COPPER ING IRON RANARS
It means that there is no better Range on earth in
any particular, while patented features found no.
where elsevdoubles its value to you.
Note these features. Mate- Some real facts. Princess
rial-copper bearing iron. Re- kitchen is a cool kitchen. Ash
tains hoat. Maintains even es in the oven impossible. Trip
temperature. Cooks even- pie bottom. No heated pipe in
Less fuel. More durable. A:- Sight. Handy warzningczosets.
solutely dependable. Instant hot wvater,
"Ask the cook.**
- Pickens Hdw. & Grocery Co.
Allen Manufacturing Company, Nashvtlle, Tenn.
FUS
hvyer, the most successful Trappers and Collector, of Raw Fur, in your vicinity
maret een shpping their entre collections to us. You too. can secure the highest
Creties Frur srkin by soninthem here-as New York is now the World-s
for our Fre, price list and shipping tags- WeaCtelre~aeI inseng and CoedenjSea
We charge no commission. W athe a edea ler ia n h i nsns in the ni edi
DVDBL.USTEIN & BRO. -asAeG ..g-ou e v. w
eenville Optrometrist,
inster, S. C., at Gilreath Hotel, Tues
8; Liberty, S. C., at Hunter's Phar
r, November 10,
ONE DALY ONLY
