fains
VOL. I
AIOUNTAINAIK, NEW MEXICO, THURSDAY, NOVEMBEll 2, 1916
NO. 6
REAL ESTATE BUSINESS
ACTIVE IN TOWN
ANDNEARBY VICINITY
Good Crop Increases Demand
for Farms
That there ia an active demand for
farms in this vicinity is proven by the
transfers reported by the real estate
dealers during the past few days.
Among the farm properties which have
changed hands are:
J. A. Cooper has purchased the W.
D. Fulton place on the mesa. B. L.
Mitchell has secured the W. H. McCoy
place west of Mountainair. Samuel M.
Smith has sold his homestead to Emery
C. Telford. John W. Corbett ir now
the owner of the John N. Allen farm
north of town. R. J. Chavez has bought
part of the old Candelaria place near
Ciénega and will improve it as his per
manent home. Pedro Lucero y Torres
of Pinos Well has purchased the Jacobo
Chavez farm at Ciénega. He owns a
fine farm just west of this place and
expects to improve this as his perma
nent residence.
In town property there has also been
some changes. J. A. Beal has secured
the quarter block north of the postoffice
building, having purchased from Kan
sas parties. W. R. Orme closed a deal
whereby he owns the Hoshor building,
occupied by the Abo Land Company.
J. J. White has purchased the McCoy
& Co., building. Mr. Chavez will con
tinue to occupy same as he has a lease
till New Years.
The harvesting of the best crop in
the valley has increased the demand
for good farm property, and other trans
fers are anticipated in the near future.
Eastview
Floyd Spencer is suffering from a
severe cold and is unable to be out at
present.
B. B. Spencer is fattening twelve
head of hogs, which means pork and
beans this winter.
(Reioived to late for last week)
Emilio Pena is harvesting his crop of
com which is of good quality.
Joe Purcella is needing a thresher for
his bean.s. They are fine, but have
8 iffered some damage from the wet
weather.
Spencer's sawmill is not running this
w ;ek, as B. B. is cutting wheat-hay
a ni sowing rye. He hopes to start the
mill again Monday.
The Eastview Public School will epen
Monday, October 30, with Mrs. Rogers
as teacher. The old building will be
u-ifd at present, as the new will not be
r.-í'dy for occupancy for a month or so.
"J. B. Teague has just finished har-v.-iting
his crop of beans on Uncle Jo
Young's place. Mr. Young has raised
t vi price on his farm here at Eastview,
s'iv he has learned what good benns
i will produce.
The republican precinct committee
ni -eting here was a r;;ther secret af
f lir, only a very few knowing of it.
Two of the less than half a dozen pres
e it, elected themselves delegates to the
c unty convention. Hope you get your
man nominated, but watch out when
election day comes.
Must Pay Road lax
Monday a case came up before Jus
tice Fuller in which the County Road
Board had brought suit against W. L.
Johnson, for road tax. . Assistant dis
trict attorney Ilitt appeared for the
bo.-trd. Judgment was rendered for the
plaintiff in the sum of $3.00 and costs,
the latter amounting to about $6.00.
Jason Williams, who has been at
t a ling the University of New Mexico,
c mi in from Albuquerque Saturday
a id spent Sunday with home folks
n rth of town. He returned to the
Djke City to take up h3 studies Sun
day evening.
SCHOOL CHILDREN 10
SECURE BUST STATUE
Also Reproduction of Famous
Painting
In honor of America's best loved
poet, James Whitcomb Riley, the pu
pils of the Mountainair schools are en
deavoring to Becure for our assembly
hall, a bust of the great poet and a
large oil painting of "The Old Swim
min' Hole." The bust will be half life
size and be of ivory finish, and is very
beautiful. The painting is thirty by
forty inches and enclosed in a beautiful
frame and will be a nice start towards
furnishing our new assembly hall, of
which we are very proud. We have
one hundred fifty souvenir pins like
ness of Mr. Riley and our plan is to
have the children sell these pins at ten
cents each. The pupil selling the larg
est number of pins will receive a beau
tiful volume of Riley's Poems, as an
incentive for active work. If we can
complete the sale of pins within fifteen
days each pupil selling pins will receive
a beautiful picture of "Riley's Old
Swimmin' Hole." These pictures are
splendid reproductions of the painting
our school is to receive and are sure to
be appreciated. We trust everybody in
Mountainair and vicinity will buy one or
more of the pins and thereby insure suc
cess for our efforts.
Everything the schools have under
taken thus far has been ably supported
by our people, and to show our appre
ciation we are trying to give you the
best schools possible.
We are trying to systematize the re
creation periods and have begun by in
stalling an up-to-date basket ball field
for the young ladies. We believe out
door exercise most beneficial and have
arranged to play outside during nice
weather and thereby give the pupils the
benefit of this wonderful mountain air.
The grounds are now in readiness and
you may look for a "Match Game" any
time soon.
The records of last year show a total
enrollment of eighty and when we think
of our present enrollment of one hun
dred twenty four, we feel that again of
50 per cent, is so remarkable that all
should know about it.
The "Honor Roll" will appear next
week and aside from the first week of
the month when we had five or six in
ches of rainfall, our attendance has
been just as remarkable as the first
month showed that nearly 60 per cent,
of the total enrollment was neither
tardy nor absent. We would ask the
parents to examine the, list next week
and if your child's name does not ap
pear, kindly help us in this perfect at
tendance and punctuality plan.
Two Injured at Estancia '
(Special Correspondence to the Independent)
Saturday morning, while driving to
town, Mrs. Ingle was thrown from her
buggy, when a tug' became loose and
the horse ran away. She was taken
into the Methodist parsonage nearby,
where it was found she was not Eerious
ly hurt. After resting -a while, she
had recovered sufficiently to go on her
way.
Sunday morning, Samuel Keen, a boy
of 16, while attempting to ride a
broncho, was thrown, the horse falling
on him The injury proved fatal, the
young man dying some twelve hours
later. Funeral services were conducted
by Rev. J. A. Bretz at the home of the
uncle of the deceased on Monday after
noon. The remains were taken to
Young county, Texas for interment.
Cemetery Mass Meeting
A mass meeting is called for Sunday
night, immediately following the League
service, of all those interested in car
ing for the cemetery. It is proposed
that steps be taken for the fencing and
caring for the "City of the Dead," and
plans will be discussed and action tak
en at this time. All are urged to come.
N
Named Because of Personal Fitness for Office
and Not to Serve the Bosses
The convention of the democrats and
the independent republicans held at Es
tancia last week, was not so largely
occupied in getting favtiites on the
ticket as to get candidates with ctean
records and men efficient and compe
tent as officers to care for the people's
business. And in this th'.y were very
successful. For taken as a whole the
ticket is a good one. In a few instan
ces improvements could have been
made, but when compared to the can
didates of the opposing ticket, it is
evident that good work was done.
The ticket is composed of both demo
crats and independents, and is also
made up of bcth Spanish-Americans
and Anglo-Americans. Every Spanish
American on the ticket speaks English
and can conduct the business of bit of
fice in that language. Everyone of them
is well known for his honesty and vera
city, making a strong ticket asking the
support of the voters.
Dee Robinson for Sheriff
The oi'ice of sheriff is one of impor
tance to the county. There is need of
a man who is fearless in the discharge
of his duties, a man with no favorites
among his friends, and one who under
stands both languages sufficiently well
to transact the business of his office
in either, as he necessarily comes in
touch with all citizens of the county.
Such a man is Dee W. Robinson, who
has had charge of the sheriff's office as
undersheriff for the past five years. He
is sober, honest, clean and has made an
excellent officer. Dee is a man whose
brain is never befuddled with' whiskey,
and who spends his time, when not en
gaged in business with his family at
home. Ha has been a resident of the
county at least eight years, and h?a !
a.. f: 1 n ,.,;rv, ,v, u w i
IllaUC 1I1CI11L-3 Ui 111 i V lili V liUlll tlHd I
had dealings. He will give the voters
a loan, honest administration. I
Dixie Howell, for Assessor
Dixie Howell took a homestead near
Willard wjien he came to the Estancia
Valley in 1905, and has made that his
home ever since. He was elected as
sessor in 1909 and gave the taxpayers
good service. He systematized the
wore of thi offiia and was success
ful in getting a more complete assess
ment of the property in the county than
had ever been done before. He played
no favorites. His work was highly
commended by "the state authorities
when he sent in the books for ?ppro
val. He was defeated at the next elec
tion, by so close a majority that the
returns from the last precinct were
necessary to decide. His knowledge of
the work of the office was such that
his opponent a short time later narr.ed
Dixie as deputy. Needless to say he
will care for the office with the san:e
unswerving fidelity and will be the as
sessor himself and not some deputy.
Juan C. Sanchez for Treasurer
Five years ago the democrats needed
a good honest Spanish-American for
commissioner on their ticket. They
went to Manzano and found him in the
person of Juan Cruz Sanchez. H? was
elected by a good majority, b' friends
throughout the county being legion.
While in the minority on the board his
actions and vote have been for what he
believed to be right and just. Only a
short time ago, when the other 1 vo
members of the board got together and
held a meeting without consulting him,
he refused to endorse their actions.
Such a man is the candidate for col
lector and treasurer. Mr. Sanchez has
not had the opportunities for an exten
sive school-room education, but wl.at
he has had, has been supplemented
with a thorough training ir the school
of experience, and he is well fitted for
the position he now seeks. The office
is an exceedingly responsible one, and
will be well taken care of by Mr. Sanchez.
CANDIDATES
Acasio Edw. Galteges for Clerk
Mr. Gallegos, one of the younger
men on the ticket, was born and reared
in New Mexico. He has had the ad
vantage of good school opportunities,
of which he has made excellent use. He
has been a public school teacher in this
and Valencia counties; he has been
deputy in the office, and is well fitted
for the office of clerk of Torrance coun
ty. He is thoroughly conversant with,
rnd can traniact the business of the
office in both languages. His schooling
included two years at the State Uni
versity and two years at the Silver City
Normal School. He will make good at
clerk.
r Mrs. Reta Mathews, for School Supt.
Mrs. Mathews has been a school
teacher for a number of yean, and has
taught in this and adjoining countiei.
Her work has kept her up-to-date in
school methods, and abreast of the
times. Her interest in the children ex
tends beyond the school room. If elec
ted, she promises close attention to the
work of the school of Torrance Coun
ty. H. V. Lipe for Commissioner
II. V. Lipe has been a resident of the
county for a number of years, having
proved up on his homestead north of
Mcintosh. He was introduced to the
nominating convention as never having
tasted liquor, surely a good recommen
dation in an employe. Mr. Lipe is a
farmer and business man who has made
good in his own business, and it is a safe
guess that he will make good in looking
after the business of the people.
August Kayser for Commissioner
August Kayser is a young man who
nas 8Peni 11,8 enure "Ie ,n trance
1 í. 1 x. i i ? r m .
county. "Hans" as he is called is a
hright fellow whose honesty is nev
Questioned by anyone. His friends are
numbered my his acquaintances, which
means practically everybody. Having
been raised in the Manzano mountains,
he talks both languages well. Having
lost his father some years ago, he has
shown his manhood by caring for his
mother and younger brothers and sis
ters. He goes into a thing cautiously
and thoroughly, and then acts on his
best judgement. He will make good
as commissioner.
M. S. Sanchez for Commissioner
M. S. Sanchez is the youngest man
on the ticket. He has had good school
advantages and has made the best of
them. He is not inexperienced in coun
ty affairs, having served as deputy in
severa?, county offices of Guadalupe
county, and brings not only ability, but
sound judgment a3 yell as qualifica
tions for the office. Of course he speaks
both languages, which is very necessary
for a good commissioner.
Esau B. Lopez for Probate Judge
For the office of Probate Judge a
man should be chosen who not only raeds
human nature, but is acquainted with
values of real estate and )ersor.al pro
perty throughout the county, or he can
not do his duty to the widow and or
phan as he should. Mr. Lopez is a lead
er among his people in the western part
of the county, where he ha3 served as
justice of the peace. He has made
good and his official acts have never
been questioned. A vote for him is a
vote for a good man for the position.
Marry J. Fintke for Representative
Probably the worst thing against
Fincke is that he has printer's ink on
r ':s fingers, but he has been promising
n reform along this line, and is now
advertising his paper, the Moriárty
liessenger, for sale. Mr. Fincke has
lived in the county a number of years
long enough to know conditions here,
and be known by the voters of the
county. He is well educated, a great
reader, and student, and will take no
orders from the "gang." He will rep
CAR SHORTAGE HINDERS
SHIPMENT Of BEANS
Only Six Cars Shipped during
the Past Week
On account of the shortage of cars,
only six carloads of beans were billed
out by the local agent. The beans have
been here ready for shipment to have
filled at least twice that number, but
they were not to be had. Thirty-five
cars to date is the record. Last year
during the whole season only thirty
eight cars were shipped from Mountain
air, so that thus far this year, we have
almost as many.
J. J. White has finished threshing his
crop of beans on the farm north of town,
the result being 170,000 pounds. We
understand these have been sold at six
cents being a return of something over
$10,000.
Hallowe'en Social
The Annual Hallowe'en Social was
held at the home of Mrs. R. E. Farley
on Tuesday October 31.
The decorations were mostly native
products and of native growth. The
rooms were profusely but artistically
eovered with almost everything that
grows in and around Mountainair. Jap
onesa lanterns, Jack-o-Ian terns, and ap
ples filled with candles furnished what
light seemed necessary, and when you
combine with these a mammoth fire
place we have almost an exact dupli
cate of the old New England Hallow
e'en The Ghost like guests began to ar
rive at7:80 and by 8:30 more than fifty
were present and ready for the fun.
The program reminded one of a many
ringed circus. There were so many
things going on at the same time. Mrs.
McNeese in her usual tactful mannc r
unfolded the past and prophecied the
future of many of the young people.
Thelma Farley very skilfully told their
ages by means of a mathematical table.
In another room others we pinning
the cat's tail on the wall, guests', or
anything convenient, Silhouettes of
more than half the guests were traced
by Mrs. Farley and it is surprising how
many could be recognized. A grab
bag containing more than fifty comical
aouvenirs was a most interesting fea
ture.
But when it came to refretshments
Pumpkin pie, apple pie, popcorn, ap
pies and coffee the young men of
Mountamair promptly showed their up
to-date-ness by selecting the young lady
of his choice and immediately sur
rounding the tables loaded with refresh
ments.
Many of the young ladies entertained
the guests with music and in all it was
one of the most pleasant events of the
year.
Mrs. Farley and those who assisted
her deserve much credit for thebeauti
ful decorations, the abundance of re
freshments, and the most enjoyable
program. A Guest.
Wagner to Speak Here
J. Howard Wagner, candidate on the
republican ticket for Superintendent of
Public Instruction, will be in Mountain
air Friday morning, November 3, and
will make an address at the High School
building, to which all citizens are in
vited. Mr. Wagner needs no intro
duction to our people, having had charge
of the Teachers Institute here for two
years.
resent the people and not the interests
in the next legislature. For several
years past he has held the office of
United States Commissioner and has
thus had opportunity of learning the
needs of good legislation in the state
and county.
H. A. Ballard for Surveyor
Mr. Ballard is the only nominee on
the ticket with whom we are not per
sonally acquainted. He is reputed to
be of good character and well fitted
for the office of county surveyor.
REV. FARLtfCKOSES
SUPERINTENDENT OF
ANTI-SALOON LEAGUE
To Succeed Rev. J. I. Seder,
D. D., Resigned
Rev. R. E. Farley has been selected
as superintendent of the Anti-Saloon
League of New Mexico, to succeed Rev.
J. I. Seder, resigned. This action was
taken by the board of trustees at Al
buquerque, during the past week, Mr.
Farley taking charge of the office yes
terday morning.
Mr. Farley has been a very active
worker along Temperance lines, and has
been very successful. At the time ef
the organization of the Submission Fed
eration here last July, Mr. Farley was
unanimously chosen as the secretary.
During the past months, he has done a
vast amount of work, especially in se
curing pledges from the legislative
candidates of both political parties, re
garding the submission of the question
of state-wide prohibition to a vote of
the people. Backed by the Federation
of all the temperance forces of the
state, he has been enabled to secure ao
expression from candidates where other
means have failed.
Mr. Farley enters upon his new work
with the united support of the state
temperance forces. His large personal
acquaintance with the people of all
stations throughout the state, his knowl
edge of conditions in the state, and his
active, work along temperance lines ia
the past, fit him admirably for the
work.
For the present Mr. Farley will re
tain his residence at Mountainair. His
resignation as pastor of the local Meth
odist church will become effective aB
soon as a successor shall have been
named.
South Mesa
(Intended for last week)
A. Owens has gone to Texas on busi
ness.
B. M. Condrey is enjoying a visit from
his father from Oklahoma.
Don Stewart has purchased a pair of
fine large mules from L. Fulfer.
The Mesa district can also boast of a
new school building made strictly up-to-date.
vTom Springs reports a heavy loss of
beans on account of the rainy weather
last week.
Miss Gladys Gott, one of the Mesa
teachers, has selected a homestead near
her school.
J. H. Cumifoid says some of his
beans are making seventeen hundred
pounds to the acre.
Little Lois Stiner has been absent
from school several days on account of
an attack of measles.
Two years since, neighhors were very
few in this vicinity, but now we cannot
complain of their scarcity.
Mesdames Lizar and Stewart and Mr.
and Mrs. Cumi ford motored to Estancia
Saturday for the purpose of shopping.
J. H. Cumi ford and B. M- Condrey
were delayed several days with their
threshing on account of the rainy
weather, but are at it again.
The South Mesa farmers are wearing
broad smiles this year, and well they
may, for their main crop is beans and
the bean market Is climbing every day.
Thomas Smith and IraAllman came
in last night with the democratic can
didates returning to Estancia this mowing-
I 1
I
I v.r-r
L 3
