9he $ueiuwkri Views
M
d
S Largest Circulation of Any ft
A Paper in Quay County
ft
4 Adrertisers Know Where to ft
ft Place Their Ada ft
ft ft
AND TUCUMqJjvRI TIMS
VOL,
XV. Qu,y
TUCUMCAHI, QUAY COUNTY, NEW MEXICl HURSDA Y, NOVEMHER 2, 1010
NO. C
I
E
IMUM SENTENCES
Tho October term of District Court
clo.sed Monday when Judge Lcib puss
cd sentences on those found guilty of
crimes nt this term.
Towndrow, who was churned with
the muidor of his wife tit their home
near Ruton, was found guilty of vol
untary manslaughter by the jury and
he was given the limit provided by
law. Judge Lcib sentenced him to t',i
to 10 years in the state penilontinry.
It is thought that lie will secure the
bond whicii is $12,5(10 and remain out
during tho action of the supreme court.
He returned to Ids home county.
R. L. Anderson, who was chanted
with tho murder of his brother-in-law,
George Znnt, was found guilty of vol
untary manslaughter, after the Jury
was out about thirty hours. This was
a compromiso verdict it is understood,
but the young man might consider him
self lucky since he confessed to the
killing nnd there is little doubt in the
minds of the citizens of this commun
ity that he did do it. Judge Lcib gave
him 9 to 10 years in the State peni
tentiary. Mr. Morris, lawyer for An
derson, said he intended to appeal the
case.
Everett Walter charged with rob-1
bcry, plead guilty and was sentenced ,
to 1 to yenrs in the pen. i
Ben F. Morgan plead guilty to the 1
charge of forgery and was given 1 to
1 years in tho pen.
Auiceto (Jim) Sulazar nnd Josu Cor-
against them. They plead guilty to
larceny of cattle nnd were given a fine
of $500 each nnd 1 to 1 yenrs in the
penitentiary.
Hiscntn Atcncln, was charged with
bigamy. She plead guilty and was
sentenced to 2 to 2V5 years in the pen
itentiary. Her sentence wns suspend
ed during good behavior.
Walter, Morgan, Snlazar and Cor
dova have been taken to Santa Fc and
are now doing time in the pen.
METHODIST CHURCH SERVICES
Look! Read'! Think!!! Church go
ing is a means of grace, and di.'iuoly
appointed ''Not forsaking the as-
M-mbling of yourselves together as the.
manner of some is" Heb. 10:25. It is
helpful nnd restful, a fine investment
of your time. It develops the best
part of man. Hut, How easily neglect-
ed. Absence from next Sabbnth's ser-
vices will mnko it easier to stay away , if the solid vote mny be expected. The
the next week. Then we reach for an , News editor is n Democrat, and nl
excuse. We shall find a plenty except j ways has been but he does not approve
good ones. Most excuses analyzed ' 0f some methods used to secure nomi
mean simply, "I don't wish to." lfnntinns and nftcrwnrds to gain the
you will attend church regularly one i flection.
month you will wnnt to go. Try the j The Democrats do not believe in
remedy. Degin next Sunday if you ; snncioning "political bosses," nor do
have not nlready begun. We shall they believe in being handled like u
look for you nt tho Methodist church ( hunch of sheep. Thev nre tho poor
nt the Sundny School Rally Day exer- munA f,icn,i nd all legislation is nim
eisos, beginning nt 9:45 o'clock, nnd , 0d to benefit tho masses. The classes,
concluding with the rcgulnr preaching, or those with millions of dollars, will
fcrvico a little before twelve. take care of themselves. They fear
Junior Missionary Society nt 3; Woodrow Wilson because, they know
hpworth League nt 0:4 5;
Preaching at 7:30. Come to nil of ,
these services nnd close the Sabbath
with n well-spent day. COME.
HACK AC.AIN
To the old plan of having morning
worship nt eleven o'clock instend of
the one service combined with the
Hiblc school.
Tho nuto race contest is getting In
teresting. Tho Uuick went through
Tucumenri Inst week on "high" while
the Ford crowd was so modest it stop
ped just four miles out to visit. Per
hnps the Huick people were scared.
At nny rate, only 17G miles now sep
arates them, tho Huick having 2C72
miles to its credit nnd tho Ford 2490.
The subject at morning worship:
"Tho Alnbaster Cruse" at 7:30. None
other. Last Sunday night wo were
treated to n beautiful dim', by Miss
Jtinnita Schaff nnd Mr. Lucius Schnff.
Come nnd help in tho congregational
singing. Norris J. Rensoncr,
Minister.
HALLOWE'EN PARTY
Monday evening, October .10, tho
members und friends of tho Epworth
League of tho M. E. Church enjoyed a
Hallowe'en masquerade party at the
C, II, Hittson ranch, where they were
splendidly cntertnined by the host nnd
hostess.
It Is estimated that some sixty to
seventy-five guests were present, who
met nt tho church, und were taken out
to tho ranch in enrs owned by members
of tho church.
After unmasking, the evening wns
spent in telling fortunes, playing
games, and enjoying good music. A
grent kettle of coffee wns prcpnrcd out
of doors, whore it wns served with
doughnuts, nnd where mnrahmollows
wcro toasted.
Tho M. E. church hns n llvo Epworth
Lcaguo which appears to bo growing
rapidly. It is said thnt the various
working departments nro well orgnn
ized, and it nppenrs thnt there is cer
tainly nothing lacking in tho soclnl department.
MEXICAN KILLED WHEN HE
EXPLODES DYNAMITE CAPS
Word renched town last week to the
elfect that a Mexican In the neighbor
hood of Honlta Canyon was fntally in
jured while fooling with a box of dyna
mite left in that vicinity by miners.
It is said the Mexican was digging
In the box which contained some caps
and about fifty pounds of dynamite.
It exploded nnd tore both bands and
arms from the body, put out both eyes
and tore a big hole in his stomach. He
was not killed instantly, but lived sev
eral days.
VOTERS WILL CHOOSE THEIR
OWN TICKET AND SUPPORT IT
Two Democrats talking on the street
Tuesday wore heard to say:
First Well, nre you going to vote
'or straight this time?
Second Not. quite, but 1 have de
cided to vote for the Democratic log
I'lators, because if the Republicans
hold a two-thirds majority and linen
is elected governor, it will do nobody
i,'ood. If the Democrats of Quay coun
ty send Republican topresenlnti' to
Santa Fe they cnnin t expect them to
vote for Democratic measures. No
matter how honest these Republicans
may bo if they do not do as Hur.suin,
Spiess, et nl., say, they will be cast
aside and powerless to accomplish n
thing. I intend to vote for Ilaca, and
therefore, in justice to him, if he is
elected, I must vote 'cr straight for
State Senator nnd Representatives, it
means three assistants instead of three
m" ..... .
ticket?
Second -Tlie same hold good there.
If 1 vote for Wilson, I most assuredly
will support A. A. Jones for the Sen
nle and W. II. Walton for Congress. ,
It would be useless to elect Woodrow
w,,"on 0 ,Ui ' then t,c
lh s hun,, ccUnK Kcpubl.cnn
!""""
First How nbout the county ticket? :
Second That is different. I know ,
there must be a wny of keeping nn I
organization, but when certain inter-!
cats are so selfish that they will not 1
nllow others to participate only to the
extent of lining up nnd "swallowing i
a rendy-mado ticket (or slntc)" I be
lieve it is time to call n hnlt nnd se
lect the men best suited nnd qualified
to fill the office to which they aspire. '
I intend to use n pencil end if n man's '
name appears on my ticket, and I
; know he's not the mnn for the plncc, ,
I will scratch it off and put my choice !
i his stead, but where I believe the
Democrat is ns good or better I will
vote for him. !
The foregoing conversation can be '
heard every dny in Tucumcari nnd Is j
,,n examnle of whnt nolitics must be
him nnd he hns the power to handle
them as they should be handled. Wll-
son forgets politics when he is presi
dent. He enres not whether you are
Democrat or Republican, if you nro
deserving you will receive that which
you ask, providing it is within his pow
er to give it to you. It is much better
to write n few notes thun to put your
self needlessly up ns u target. The
time mny come when those who now ;
criticize Wilson will sc their mistnke
nnd npprcciatc what he has dono for
United States nt n time like the pres
ent. We mny need him n few years
longer to guide our ship safely.
HIGH COST OF LIVING
Coal jumped one dollar a ton yes
terday in Tucumcari. Wheat is bring-
$1.70 a bushel, Grains of nil kinds ure
advancing nnd it sure looks like us
poor erittors are sure going to be up
against it this winter.
High prices will continue to go high'
er until the war in Europe ends, or,
until the pcoplo of the world material
ly reduco consumption, which can be
done without any injury to tho musses
of tho people.
Tho demand in war time, for wheat
corn, potatoes, rico, copper, iron, cot -
ton, wool, chemicals, and nearly all
other commodities is constant. For
men nnd munitions, the demand is in
satiable. There is now no justification for the
belief that tho war will end as sud
denly as it began. German successes
in Rumania gives confidence to the
Teutonic people, and tho stubborn Hrit
ish are just beginning to fight well.
Only nbout six months ngo did tho big
masses of tho English people come to
realize that there was on a struggle
which could not be handled by tho Hrit
Ish navy.
France never will yield nn
men uniu ncr territory is cienrcu oi eu with tho splendid nttendance. The
Germans, and Russln now is fighting , floor was crowded to Its capacity at
for Constantinople, her ngc-long day times. The music wns splendid nnd
dream. Just ns well fill your larder, 'those who attended wero high in their
economize nnd prepare for higher price praise of tho manner in which the cv
and less luxuriev. Idlings entertnlnment wns conducted.
1 I The Indies took in n goodly sum of
Tho ladies of tho Christian church money which will bo used to defray
will give a box social next week. various expenses.
I 1 1 t a ti t m
fp
WOODROW, WILSON
President of the I ited States
"HE HAS KEPT
This is the face of a man strong, courageous,
patient and kindly, a man
Always alert to the aspirations of his fellow
man and sympathetic toward their fulfillment;
Never complacent toward the encroachments
of privilege nor tolerant of social wrong;
Always seeking to enhance the dignity of
labor and better the state of the toiler;
Never lending an ear to the sophistry of ex
ploitation or the blandishments of expediency;
Always patient to hear and weigh, to ap
praise and analyze, and passionate to find the
way of right;
Never premature in purpose nor prejudiced
in judgment, and never headlong in decision
Such is WOODROW WILSON.
TUCUMCARI MEN HOLD THE
SACK MUST PAY THE HON!)
Suit was brought last week in the
Fedora! Court nt Santa Fe, by the
Globe Surety Co., of Kansas City, vs.
M. 11. Goldenberg, Herman Gcrhnrdt
and W. F. Huchanan, to recover the
balance on nn indemnity
bond signed
by these gentlemen.
When Huchanan was president of the
defunct Inernntional llnnk of Com
merce, he called Messrs. Gcrhurdt nnd
Gojdenberg, who were then directors,
into the bank nnd told them the state
deposit had been increased and a new
indemnity bond was necessary.. Hoth
of theso gentlemen trusted their pies
ident and signed the bond without pay
ing much nttcnlinn to it.
The state deposit amounted to about
$10,343.00. This nmount was paid by
the bonding company to tho state, but
to recover their loss, nftcr receiving
something like $0(100 from the receiver
which left them $3,7 13 in the red, it
wns necessary for the company to sue
the men who signed the bond, also W.
1 F. Iluchnnnn, tin's left Messrs. Ger
hnrdt nnd Goldenberg with the snck
to hold. They were called to Santa
Fe nnd both nppenred in their own be
half, but Iluchnnnn wns fnr, far away.
The case was heard and judgment ren
dered in full ngninst the defendants,
which together with attorneys fees, in
terest nnd vnrious other expenses,
nsks them to pay something over six
thousnnd dollars.
A SUCCESSFUL DANCE
Tho Indies of tho Episcopal Guild
gnvo a Hallowe'en Dnnco nt the Oncrn
House Tuesday nlcht nnd wero delltht-
. . . ' . ... .. . V
sf'fls.
US OUT OF WAR"
COPPER MINE WILL UE RUN-
NING FULL TIME SOON
Messrs. Fulton, Thomas, Hopkins,
McCall et at., nre now ready for busi
ness nt tho Red Peuks Copper Co. Mr.
Fulton has returned from Chicago nnd
reports everything most favorable in
regards to assays, finance, etc. A big
machine that was bought for mines in
Old Mexico, was bought and it will nr
rive soon nnd be installed at their mine
near Norton. This is only the begin
ning of what promises to be a move
ment that will mean much to parts of
Quay county that were once thought
worthless. The ore is there and the
capital is accessible so success is cm
iuently to bo tile outcome.
, FIREMAN SERIOUSLY HURT
Flovd E. Rosebush, n fireman on the
i Dawson division of the E. P. & S. W..
j met with a very serious accident near
Campana Wednesday, when he fell
from an engine tank," while tho engine
wns diking water. It was nt first sup-
posed that his back was broken. He
was brought to Tucumenri nnd nlnced
in the Tucumcari Hospital for treat-
ment. He is resting well today und tno evening will he ino uoou aumur
will probably recover. ilan, nnd tho illustrated song will be
I "Tho Life Line."
MILK GOES UP TEN CENTS
The price of milk will go up begin
ning tho 10th of November. No mnt
ter whether Hughes or Wilson is the
next president, the price of feed hns
made it impossible to ell milk nt tho operated on nt tho Tucumcari Hos-
olil price so tho dairymen have served pitnl for general peritonitis is thought
notice thnt tho price will bo raised 10c to lie out of danger. The peritonitis
pi-r gallon. If you don't llko tho raise wns cuuscd by nn nppendicltis which
you can buy n cow pretty cheap now, hnd been left a number of days with-
but when you go to buy feed you will out operation until the patient's con
see that tho dairymen are justified in.dltion becumo gravo through compli-
hoisting tho price. Don't know wlcre cntions setting in.
butter nnd eggs will go to, but it is
supposed they follow suit.
Thero will bo a Fenst of the Seven
Tables given by the Methodist Ladies been n pnticnt nt the Tucumcari Hos
Nov. 18. Look for more extensive nn- pitnl, was nblo to leave Sundny, in very
nouncement next week. much improved condition.
TALLMAN GIVES INTERESTING
ADDRESS AT COURT HOUSE
Hon. Clay Tallman, commissioner of
public lands, of Washington, D. C, ad
dressed u large audience of intensely
interested voters here last Thursday
night at ,tho Court House, after nu
merous other short addresses by such
gentlemen ns Gov. McDonnld, Geo.
Davisson, et al who were on their
way to Roy and urrived in time to
hear Mr. Tallman.
Mr. Tallman reviewed the work o
the democratic administration, undei
the master mind of Woodrow Wilson,
from the beginning up to the meas
ures now on the road to enactment
mentioned in particular that some of
this good legislation hnd been recom
mended in the republican platform
ail owing to the control of the repub
lican administration bv the republi
can admini tration by the "old guard,"
who represent specinl interests, failed
to lie enacted.
He said the enactment of these good
law was brought nbout in spite of the
itler opposition of the old gunrd, and
that the administration had put up n
hard but winning fight, from begin
ning to end, for just and fur-reaching
lav. to result in the grentcst good for
In- greatest number.
He ridiculed Roosevelt as n sore
headed traitor to the republican party
when he organized the progressives.
And as a traitor to the latter when he
a .-.a. Mtinted tho progressive organi
zation because he failed of nomination
by the republican party.
Mr. Tallman said the republicans
had been for the past three nnd a half
years casting about for an issue in
I 'hi campaign and that the only one
1 1 1 it could make a howl about was the
Mexican question. "This, he said,
after eliminating the fussy quibble,
reiolved itself into u question of "war
or peace." Whether our boys and
husbands, (the poor, laboring class),
should be sent into u foreign country
to fight and die that the rich should
save their mines, ranches and railroad
properties and become richer and nil
the boys and poor men would get
those that survive would be a pen
sion for disablement, or the title of
"here." When n rich man goes to war
ho usually secures n plncc in the quar
termasters department or ns an ofTi
ccr whose duties nre not nt the firing
line. Mr. Tallman said "The most, bla
tant howler for war is usually the last
to go to the front."
Mr. Tallman pnid a high tribute to
the Hon. A. A. Jones, "a big, brave,
up- tanding man, with a heart for the
western people."
The talk was restricted to cold, ir
refutable fneti, and tho close atten
tion accorded the speaker throughout
tho address wns expressive of the in
tense interest the voters are showing
in the present campaign.
DEMOCRATIC MONEY PLENTIFUL
I Albuquerque, Nov. 1. With election
little more than a week away, demo
cratic money predominntes nt Albu
querque clubs whore election wagers
are handled. Early in the campaign
most of the money in sight wns placed
, upon republican candidates, but now
' most of the untnken wngers are upon
! democratic candidates.
! Metwecn $30,000 nnd $40,000 has
been put up nt the Capitol, Sturges and
White Elephant. The Sturges hns the
1 1. ;...,... i;.., ntn,i It i sr nnn
that President Wilson would be re
elected, it hns been covered. A Tu
cumcari man offered the bet and in
less than thirty minutes it was taken
ly a man from Doming.
Hotting hns been heaviest on the
presidential and New Mexico guberna
torial races, with other contests in tho
tale following closely. Some bets
have been placed on contests in Ber
nalillo county.
EVEN MONEY WAGERED
A number of bets have been made in
Tucumenri on the presidential election.
Most of them nre even money. One
of the Hughes supporters hns made
uvera! ofTerii and hns always found
takers at even money. A week ago
betting was strong with adds against
Wilson, but now even money is all
ihat can be found. There is consid
erable Ilursum money but more inter
est is being manifested in the national
contest.
PRESHYTERIAN CHURCH
There will bo sendees ns usual in the
Presbyterian church i.ext Sunday con-
I ducted by the pastor at 11 n. m., nnd
'7:30 p. m. Tho illustrated lectuie in
Sunday school 10 a. m.
Christian Endeavor Socioty at 7:00.
RECOVERING FROM ILLNESS
W. H. Thomas of Logan, who wns
IIOEHM RECOVERS
F. A. Hoehm of the well-drilling
gnng on tho Southwestern, who hnd
IS
NEXT BIG EVENT TO BE
PULLED OFF NOV, 16
Hot roast beef sandwiches, hot boil
ed hum sandwiches, nnd eigarsl How
docs that sound to you? Well, that
is the menu for the Citizens Smoker
to be held nt the Opera House, Thurs
day night, Nov. 10, commencing ut
7:30 o'clock, for the purpose of organ
izing n Chamber of Commerce. Tick
ets for admission are now on sale at
nil the local business houses. Nothing
to drink but water and milk.
It is believed that Tucumcari can
hnve one of the largest and most ef
ficient commercial organizations in the
State, nnd the above method for gel
ting the citizens together on the sub
ject has been decided upon. Tucum
cari has more public spirited citizens
than nny other town of its size in the
Stnte, which fact has been demonstrat
ed over nnd over again, nnd especially
during the past year by the splendid
mnnner in which everyone has co-operated
in pulling for the grain elevator
tho Y. M. C. A., good rond.i, nnd for
the grand success achieved by the
Roundup. The Y. M. C. A. proposi
tion is not yet- completed, and there
are mnny other enterprises to be reach
ed out after which mny be secured
during the next year, among which
are a bear grass factory, library, flour
mill, scenic highway, new passenger
depot, branch supply house for u pack
ing company, and n business college.
iMiorts nre now being mnde to secuie
a business college, and u live commer
cial organization is the only effective
instrument with which nnd through
which to reach out after such enter
prises. Such an organization enn be
maintained in Tucumcari by trje prop
er co-operation of tho citizenship, nt
an expense that will work a hardship
on none. It is believed thnt two hun
dred members should bo secured and
with such n lnrge membership, one
dollar per month dues from each mem
ber, would take care of the overhead
expense.
Tucumcari is fortunate in having
only a few citizens who believe in get
ting in on all of the good things, but
never subscribe nnything toward enter
prises for the public good. 3y fnr the
majority take pleasure in ench doing
his part in such propositions, nnd for
this reason it is believed thnt a strong
commercial organization is possible.
Plans for n permanent Roundup or
ganization also wil je discussed In
this meeting. It is said that the value
of the advertising Tucumcari received
by means of the Roundup can never be
estimated, but it is a foregone conclus
ion that the entertainment more thnn
put the town "on the mnp." The offi
cers of the "First Annual Roundup"
have been urged by numbers of local
folks to mnkc the organizntion a per
manent one. nnd it is desired to set
the date now for the Second Annual
Roundup, so that advertising can be
commenced now. It is tho purpose of
many of the local business men to Im
mediately put an advertisement of tho
nevt roundup on their stationery ns
soon ns the date for same has been
set.
Attend the smoker, Thursday, Nov.
10th, at 7:30 p. m. We need your as
sistance nnd you need ours. It takes
co-operation to build cities. Towns
nre the result of one man's efforts. If
you want to make Tucumcari bigger
and better, join the Commercial Club.
If you don't smoke, come out nnd cat
a sandwich with us. Iluy two tickets
and bring a friend.
MR. LEONARD AND FAMILY
MOVE HACK TO OLD MISSOURI
.Mr. nnd Mrs. W. Leonard and their
daughters, Mrs. Voima rihuw und the
Mi?es Ruth nnd Edith Leonard, of Tu
cumcari, N. Mex., ahd the former'.?
son, Kirk, of Kansas City, arrived here
last 1-nday night. These people are
all former Archie residents, ami nie
here with tho expectation of making
this their permanent home once more.
Mrs. Leonnrd, who has been in ex
tremely poor health for some time, is
slowing improving. They expect to
soon begin improvements on their res
idence property here. We welcome
these estlmnble people "bock home."
Mrs. Shaw will stay hero at least n
month, so ns to nssist her mother in
nny way possible, and nlso to visit her
mnny old fricnds.-s-Archic (Mo.) Lo
cnl News.
CORitUPT AND DISHONEST
METHODS TO BE PREVENTED
Governor McDonald has issued a
proclamation directing all officers of
tho state to strictly enforce the cor
rupt practices act in connection with
the general election on November 7.
"Corrupt nnd dishonest methods that
givo one man an unduo and unfair ad
vantage over anpthcr must and shall
be prevented or punished," says the
state oxecutlvc.
HUNTERS TAKE NOTICE
Our place is lawfully posted, and
anyone found hunting thereon will bo
prosecuted. Please be governed ac
cordingly. M. D. Goldenberg Co.
