-
r
VOL. XXVIII
QOOD RIVER, OREGON, THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 2, 19JG
No. 23
See the Mysterious Girl in the Black Mask
The Original Domino Girl in Our Window November 2nd TODAY
DO YOU KNOW HER? She says: "I am looking for a husband, but he must use a
Durham Duplex Razor." She will demonstrate the wonderful shaving as'wellas hair cut
ting qualities of this celebrated razor, which shaves with the correct diagonal stroke andf has
the longest, strongest, keenest, hollow ground, double cutting edge blade on earth. Don't
miss the opportunity of seeing her. Get this $5.00 Durham Duplex Domino Razor for $1.00.
Kresse Drug Co., The 3&KaJUL store
. EASTMAN KODAKS AND SUPPLIES, VICTOR VICTROLAS AND RECORDS
Come In and Hear the New November Records
Pay twenty-five dollars
for your next suit of clothes.
Pay that much to insure better, longer wearing
fabrics; a touch of style that stands out from the
crowd; tailoring that has taken a little more time to
finish off the fine points; and pay twenty-five to find
out how fine a fit is possible in ready-to-wear clothes
KUPPENHEIMER
CLOTHES at
offer a man real true, through and through satis
faction. We like to sell them at this price.
J. G. VOGT
WE FURNISH
Fishing and Hunting Licenses
We are showing a full line
of the famous hand made
Shakespeare Fishing Goods.
Don't cost you any more
thati the other kind.
A large assortment of new
and second hand rifles offer
ed at wholesale cost.
The Franklin air cooled
car eliminates nearly 200
parts as useless, except to
create repair bills.
Easiest riding car made.
Most economical in gasoline,
32.8 miles to gallon.
1050 on 1 gallon oil.
12,000 miles on set tires.
Sporting Goods
Lawn Tennis, Baseball, Cro
quet, Golf the proper goods
for any game.
Tennis and Baseball Shoes.
Wading Boots.
Lubricating Oils
We carry 30 kinds of oil.
The correct oil for any purpose-ask
for the right oil
for it is often one-half the
price of a kind not suited
to the need.
Our Furniture Department was never so full of bargains
5 allowed for cash on lowest market-prices.
Stewart Hardware & Furniture Co.
The Fashion Stables Cars
To and from Parkdale are running on changed schedule.
Automobile now leaves Hood River daily at four o'clock
instead of four-thirty. Cars leave Parkdale daily at seven
thirty a. m. except on Sunday. Parkdale-Hood River trips
are made every Saturday night, machine leaving at six-thirty.
Travel right, when seeing the Mid-Columbia district and
tell your visiting friends about the excellent service of
The Fashion Stables
Telephone 1201 . Hood River, Ore.
DO IT NOW
Now is the time to buy that Fall suit while our
' stock is complete.
Absolutely the largest stock of fine woolens to
select a suit of all wool cloth.
Over fifteen hundred samples to select from.
Also bear in mind we make these suits in Hood
River, tailored in the latest fashions. Pinchbacks
as well as English, and the ever popular Boxbacks,
made for you and to fit you.
Dale & Meyer
108 Third Street
Tailors to Men
Tailors to Women
a
o
o
c
V
New Pack of Vegetables and Fruit just arrived. The
finest good 9 to be had at
Star Grocery Perigo & Son
GOOD THINGS TO EAT"
Which Column do You Use in Dividing
Your Dollar?
Mr. Tightwad Mr. Spendthrift Mr. Thrifty
Saves ... .60 iOO .20
Living Exp. .37 . 58 . 50
Education . .01 .01 .10
Charity ... .01 .01 - .10
Recreation . . .01 .40 .10
' $1.00 $1.00 $1.00
We are indebted to the Savings Bank Section
of the American Bankers Association for the above
table.
Butler Banking Company.
PUBLIC DOCK
BEFORE CLUB
PORTLAND DOCK COMMISSION HELP
Scott is Assured of Assistance at a Meet
ing Held in Portland Last Week
Engineer to Come Here
R. E. Scott, who returned from
Portland last Thursday night, after
having been assured of engineering as
sistance by the Portland Dock Com
mission in the construction of a pro
posed public dock here. says, after
talking with G. B. Hegardt, engineer
of the Commission, that the atruciure
will probably have to be built at some
distance from the city on the east side
of Hood river.
"It was pointed out to me," says
Mr. Scott, "after the waterfront con
ditions were studied, that it would be
too expensive for us to build straight
out from the business section of the
city to high water. The site of the
present dock used by river steamboats
will be out of the question, for within
another year or two the river at this
point will be so tilled with huge sand
bars that boats cannot reach the land
ing. It seems that we must go east of
the present landing, and reach deep
water by a structure built on piling."
Mr. Scott says that he has not yet
been able to take the matter up with
his dock committee, composed of Tru
man Butler, Edward Hawkes and J.
H. Koberg.
1" know, however," he says, "that
they will be ready to join the move
ment and lend the Portland Dock Com
mission's engineer every assistance.
The people with whom I have talked
express themselves as being grateful
to the Dock Commission for its ac
tion." The local dock problem has been a
worry here for a number of years, and
the Commercial club took the matter
up in earnest this year.
Mr. Scott explained at the Portland
meeting that from what information
had been gathered it was apparent a
dock must be built beyond the area in
fluenced by high and lew water, which
would mean the dock must be connect
ed by a trestle or roadway that might
extend fully a mile from the city.
"It will undoubtedly be .expensive
for such' a .small community and we
don't know what it will cost," he
said. "So the question is whether the
step is worth while. The production
of Hood River valley is not one-fourth
of what it will be when there are
means of moving the commodities by
water. A survey of the river there
bas been made by the government en
gineers at the instance of Representa
tive Sinnott."
Mr. Scott said he was not aware
whether a harbor line had been estab
lished. As to the ferry service there,
be said during high water the city
could be reached, while during extreme
low water periods the boats must land
at a point about a mile away.
r. (J. Knapp, oi tne commission,
suggested that Mr. Scott confer with
the government engineers relative to
currents, shifting sands, ice conditions
and such features as must be contend
ed with, in advance of defiinte dock
plans being made.
"As to tne dock, tne l emnsuia num
ber Co. bas just finished a dock 1000
feet long, that is reached from shore
by a long approach, and when you are
ready, the company will gladly place
blueprints and all Information at your
disposal gratuitously so you can build
all or any part or such a structure."
said Mr. Knapp. "1 feel that if the
Dock Commission has any plans of use
to Hood River they should be given."
"Every dock constructed on the river
is a feeder to our system, and when
the call comes from Hood River, our
engineer should go there and give
whatever advice is necessary, said
Commissioner Dan Kelaher.
"If this project tends to develop our
system, then we Bhould assist as far as
possible," remarked C. B. Moores,
chairman of the Commission.
Immediately after the meeting C. B.
Hegardt, chief engineer of the commis
sion, accompanied Mr. scott to tne
office of Major Williams, Corps of En
gineers, U. S. A., to get information
on the Hood River situation.
BECKLEY TELLS OF
MEXICAN SITUATION
A. W. Beckley.who has just returned
from Tampico, Mex., to join hia wife,
who came out with a party of refugees
during the summer, declares that he
cornea back to America thoroughly dis
gusted with the Wilson administration,
despite the fact that President Wilaon
is the only presidential candidate tor
whom be ever cast a vote.
"To say that political conditions are
in bad shape in Mexico today," says
Mr. Beckely, who arrived at the Amer
ican boundary by way of Monterey and
Laredo, "would be putting it mildly.
I am a sympathizer with the Carransa
government, for I think he is the big
gest man in Mexico at the present
time, but he is unable to get results,
for his officers will not cooperate with
him. As a result everybody is suffer
ing from the liberties taken by tbe
military powers and a general confisca
tion of property goes on continually as
there is new need for funds."
Mr. Beckley declares that there ia not
an American resident of Mexico who is
not ashamed of hia government and the
vacillating policies of the administra
tion. "I continually hear of my country
men, who I am sorry to say. seem not
to have tbe least understanding or pe
situation, that are always declaiming
and arguing: 'What would you have
ua do. you people who have gone into
Mexico where you do not belong? You
want tbe government to protect your
interests, when you haven't any busi
ness in Mexico.' Have you ever heard
of My level headed American residents
asking for intervention or diplomatic
meddling? What we do want, however,
even though our property guarantee
may not be very secure, ia that our
Uvea be protected. It is the hope of all
Americans in Mexico that President
Wilaon will keep out and let us alone.
The political intervention of the Wilson
administration has resulted in more in
jury to tbe interest of American resi
dents in Mexico than all of the activi
ties of the warring factions put to
nether. Never in history was such
absolute ignorance of a aituation or
willful refusal to understand it dis
played. Some of President Wilson'a
acts, if put into effect at tbe right
time, might have availed much, but he
baa never in any instance acted at the
proper moment, and everything he bas
ever done haa been bungled.
"Since the Wilson administration
took bold of the Mexican situation,
matters have grown from bad to worse.
The better class Mexican people are
not opposed to Americans. They evi
dence a confidence in the business abil
ity of the American business man who
baa gone into the country, and have
been accustomed to go to bin for ad
vice in mattera of business. They have
seen wages in a comparatively short
time rise from a maximum of 17 cents
per day to as much as $5 per day in in
stances, and yet President Wilson and
his supporters treat Americana in Mex
ico aa mere exploitera of labor. But
today the question that the better class
of Mexicans, Americans and residents
of European blood are asking each
other is this, 'What in the name of
Heaven do you suppose Wilson will do
next?'
"ii i were to read in every paper
tomorrow and see printed on billboards
signed statements from President Wil
son that he was going to take some ac
tion with regard to Mexico I would not
believe it. He bas too often spoken and
then acted oppositely.
"It is a common opinion among all in
Ufl.i.n that U ai.AMAB. - ....
WIU lj.J till? BUWBBS VI IjUO VMUfBIl'
za revolution is due to President Wil
son. The Carranztas were permitted
to rob their own countrymen, and
Americans as well, of live stock and
hides and take them across the border
and sell them without molestation from
the Texas or federal authorities. 1
have seen across the border some of
my own animals, stolen from my ranch.
and driven across the border and sold
to the Americans.
"It is my personal opinion, and the
same is conformed to generally through
out Mexico by Americans there, that
Wilson's policy with regard to Mexico
is due to his fear that Carrania will
expose some of the correspondence
from the Wilson administration and of
the period when Wilson was assisting
him to become strong enough to gain
control. Unless this is tbe case, 1 can
not for the life of me see the reason
for some of the foolish actions."
Mr. Beckley says that during the
past year some of the residents of the
Tampico vicinity have been "shang
haied," as he terms it, aa many as
three times by the American govern
ment, taken to Texas points and told
to remain out of Mexico. "The situa
tion would seem less critical and they
would return to look after their inter
ests," says Mr. Beckley. "I venture
to say that out of the thousands of the
immediate territory of Tampico, not
less than half a dozen have escaped at
lest one of these forceful removals by
the United States authorities. In in
stances their properties were confis
cated. And as a result of the action
but few colonists, after a few enforced
journeys out of the country but have lost
all of their substance and have been
forced to give up. Pretty soon Presi
dent Wilson will have accomplished bis
l ; : . a I m
purpose oi eiimiiiaung Americans iron)
Mexico. At this stage or the game,
exicana dare shoot only Chinamen
and Americans. You never hear of an
Englishman, a Frenchman or a German
being shot, for these nations have been
firm in their demands.
'And if the United States ever does
get into war with an European country,
it will result from the Mexican situa
tion. During the periods of revolution
property accrued by European citizens
has necessarily been destroyed. These
European countries are going to de
mand indemnities, for has not the
United States told them that she would
take care of Mexico? Their demands
may be so strong that Uncle Sam may
squirm and attempt to buck over the
traces.
'I was at the Baltimore convention,
when President Wilson was nominated
the first time," concluded Mr. Beckley,
and then I thought he was a great
man. but 1 can never think that again.
I only wish that he and Secretary of
War Baker and Secretary of the Navy
Daniels eould be made to reside lor
just about a year down in Mexico."
Mr. Beckley says that at tne present
time only Democratic papers, those
supporting the watchful waiting policy,
are allowed in Mexico.
"There have been times," says Mr.
Beckley. "when no American papers
were allowed across the border."
WOMENlOTMRS.
LUCAS FRUIT SHOWER
Having planned a fruit ahower for
Mrs. Lucas, who was expected to be
able to preside at the last meeting of
the Woman's club, a goodly number of
members was in attendance. They
brought with them 68 eana of fruit,
jelliea and preserves, and some fresh
fruits to present to their leader who,
owing to illness, during the summer
had been unable to fill her fruit closet.
However, the president waa not able
to be present, and the meeting was
conducted by Mrs. W. F. Laraway, act
ing president. Among other business
the budget for the ensuing year was
arranged, $50 being voted to the phil
anthropic committee, $40 to the music
department, $10 to the evening depart
ment, and twi to tne social committee.
Other committees which were not yet
fully organized will be allowed their
share later on.
The delegatea to the recent conven
tion at Seaside reported about that
gathering. Mrs. Laraway told how
ably and tactfully Mrs. Castner had
presided; Mrs. Mrs. snipping gave an
account of the scholarship loan fund;
Mrs. F. S. Smith reported the resolu
tions and legislative work; Mrs. In-
falls, the federation spirit, and Mrs.
.;E. Ferguson the progress in art and
education. Mrs. Castner'a topic waa
"President's Night." Owing to the
fullness of the program she did not re
peat ber address given at that time,
but will do so at some later date.
The program for the next meetng
will be in charge of Mrs. F. E. Newby,
chairman of the civic committee.
Wind Takes Apple Toll
The heavy windstorm which prevailed
over the Hood River valley Monday
msht left a blanket or fallen apples
under trees of East Side orchards. The
loss will reach an estimated $10,000.
The wind was accompanied by a steady
downpour of rain. E.W. Birge reports
a precipitation of .35 of an inch.
Phone County Clerk Shoemaker if
you want some sample ballots.
72 lEACHERS
ATJNSTITUTE
EVENT WAS IN EVERY WAY SUCCESS
Prominent State Educators Deliver Ad
dresses and Parents Attend Meet
ing Programs Excellent
With 72 teachers present from all
parts of the county and a large number
of parents present at the sessions, one
oi tbe most successful Hood River
county teachers' institutes closed yes
terday. "We did not have a single disappoint
ment in connection with the institute,"
ssys Prof. Gibson, county superintend
ent, "for every speaker invited here to
address our teachers was present. I
have never seen the lecture rooms so
crowded by county patrons, despite the
busy season of apple harvest."
One of tbe most interesting sessions
of tbe institute occurred Tuesday morn
ing, when Mrs. Rodwell, primary
teacher of the East Barrett school,
with a class of boys and girls gave a
demonstration in basket weaving, an
innovation introduced in county schools
here this year by Mrs. Kodwell, who
waa formerly a teacher in the Philip
pine Islands. Baskets were woven by
the youngsters and then passed to the
teachers for inspection.
Speakers of the institute were: Prof.
E. S. Evenden, of the Oregon State
Normal school; Miss Florence Fox,
of Washington, D. C, a representative
of the Federal Bureau of Education ;
Dr. D. W. DeBusk, of the University
of Oregon; Mrs. Elizabeth Curtis, of
Parkdale; J. A. Churchill, state super
intendent of education; Mrs. C. H.
Henney, instructor in muBic in the
Hood River Bchools; Prof. J.W. Crites,
principal of the high school; Mrs. Har
riet Hickox Heller, of the Boys and
Girls' Aid Society; Mrs. C. H. Castner,
president of the Oregon State Federa
tion of Women's clubs; Truman Butler,
manager of tbe Butler Banking Co. ;
Prof. E. D. Ressler, of the Oregon Ag
ricultural College; H. C. Seymour, of
O. A. C. ; L. P. Harrington, of the ex
tension department of O. A. C. ; Dr.
C. H. Jenkins, chairman of the school
board; Mrs.'J. E. Ferguson, president
of the Hood River County Sunday
School Association; Mrs. S. L. Pen
nock, of Cascade Locks; and Miss
Frances Bragg. .
Musical selections were rendered by
Miss Gladys Reavis, Mrs. C. C. Lem
mon, Mrs. C. O. Huelat, Mrs. Chas.
Henney and Otto T. Wedemeyer.
As was shown by a vote taken to
endorse a resolution adopted Tuesday
afternoon the 72 teachers of the county
will vote almost unanimously for the
initiative bill providing for a state nor
mal school at Pendleton. In addition
to the teachers, the meeting at which
the resolution was brought un was at
tended by a score or more of school
patrons and a number of outaide edu
cators. But two votes were registered
against the resolution.
NEW ZEALAND FRUIT
GROWER SEES VALLEY
"I retired about 15 months ago."
says J. C. Alpass, who for 35 years
has been a resident of Wellington, New
Zealand, where he owns large orchard
interests, and now instead of settling
down and growing old, I am walking
about all over the globe and keeping
young. ' Mr. Alpass is especially in
terested in fruit growing.
"For 35 years on my New Zealand
farm I have been experimenting in
growing apples," he says, "and that is
wby 1 am here, to see how you Ameri
cans grow the fruit. From the horti
cultural books I have read it would
seem that you had the work perfected.
It is true you know bow to grow ap
ples, but I haven't found a man in
America who knows bow to grow a
tree. Instead of from 40 to 50 feet
apart, we plant our apple trees only
about 15 teet apart, and then we prune
the trees so that sunshine and air can
get in around every branch. As a re
sult we have our trees both next the
body and on the outside well loaded
with fruit spurs. Our trees do not get
so large. It is easy to spray them and
to harvest their crops."
Mr. Alpass, who has visited in Okan
ogan, Kritish Columbia and Yakima
districts, saya that the varieties of ap
ples here diner to a great extent from
those grown in Australia. One of the
favorite varieties in New Zealand, he
says is the Sturmer Pippin. New Zea
land growers do not raise Newtowns in
commercial quantities. The fruit there
is called the Chisel pippin.
Mr. Alpass says that he was in North
Yakima when Hon. J. Ham Lewis de
livered an address in behalf of the
Wilson campaign.
"It struck me," says Mr. Alpass,
"that some of your American politi
cians are doing a lot of boasting over
legislation that haa been in effect with
us for many years. Une to hear Mr.
Lewis talk would have' thought that
the party he represented conceived and
originated the child labor laws, rural
credits and eight hour laws. We have
all of these over in New Zealand. We
even have the eight hour law applied
to agriculture."
ASSOCIATION WILL
SHOW AT FOOD SHOW
The Apple Growera Association ia
making arrangements to exhibit a
large block of fruit at the National
Pure Foods show, which will open in
Portland November 9. Walter Kim
ball, a member of the board of direc
tors of the Association. waa in Portland
last week negotiating for space.
The sales agency will also probably
be represneted by a speaker at one of
the aessiona of the Pure Foods meet
ing. Smead Manages "Voter"
November 1st M. E. Smead severed
his connection with the PortlandtCham
ber of Commerce and assumed the pos
ition of business manager for "Ibe
Oregon Voter." That paper thus se
cures two former employes of the
Chamber of Commerce, C. C. Chapman
being the founder and editor of the
"Voter."
