"". A. -4 179(3 is&7A 3 KEN. ffiffiffl
!!!! Ur.ai
PRICE TWO CENTS
VOL LVilk NO. 168
POPULATION "8,219
..&
NORWICH, CONN., FRIDAY, JULY 14, 1916
EIGHT PAGES 64 COLUMNS
The Bulletin's Circulation in Nor-is Double That of Any Other Paper, and Its Total Circulation is the Largest in Connecticut in Proportion to the City's Population
1 A
I ' 1 ' ' " " " " ' "" ' ' ' ' ' -"-!"" "1""' -"" """" J.--nr-f -a..,-r. ,1 , -T,-- -- .
RUSSIAN ADVANCE
HALTED ON ST0KHOD
Titanic Struggle Raging
Town of
EFFORT TO FLANK
Most Violent Fighting on the Eastern Front Where Rus
sians Claim 2,000 Prisoners British Holding Gains on
Somme Front During Period of Consolidation and Push
ing Forward of Artillery Asquith and Lloyd-George Op
timistic Output of Ammunition Will Soon be Overwhelming.
The most violent fighting in the
great allied offensive is on the east
ern front, where. General Brutssiloff s
tremendous blows are being contin
ued without apparent lull or hestita
tion. Temporarily, at least, the Aus-tro-Germans
appear to have hailed the
Russian advance along the Stukhod.
Both Sides are reported to be hurling
hugo reinforcements of men and guns
into this titanic struggle, the prize
of which is the immensely .important
strategic town of Kovel.
Battle Raging on Lower Stripa,
Further to the south a battle of al
most equal intensity its raging on the
lower Stripa, where the Russians are
striking north in an effort to crush
; General von Bothmer and Hank the
'entire Austro-Gennan line.
The Austriams admit that the Rus
sians penetrated Von Bothrner's front
at some points, but assert they were
driven out again in counter-attacks.
The Russians claim to have taken
2J0O0 prisoners hut make jio men
tion of a sain in territory.
British Holding Their Gains.
The British have held their gains
on their portion of the Somme front
and the usual period of consolidation
and the pushing forward of the big
artillery is presumed to be taking
place. A similar situation exists on
the French line and a remarkable
, brief French official statement of
'Thursday night simply rorords the
continuance of the, bombardment at
Ftert Souville in the Verdun region.
Overwhelming Output of Ammunition
Two important statement.-? in regard
to the titration on ihe west rn front
were made in Lond,m on Thursday.
Premier As-.iuith, speaking izi the house
nt commons, declared that the 'Brit
ish offensive was merely at Us be
ginning. The second statement was
made by -.Minister of War Lloyd
George, addressing an allied confer
ence on equipment. The minister of
war declared that the British output
of ammunition will soon be over
whelming and that the new factories
and workshops have not yet attained
one-third their full capacity. He as
serted that the tide of victory is now
flooding in the direction of the allies
and predicted that it would continuo
to do so.
ALLIED OFFENSIVE
ONLY IN BEGINNING
British Munition Workers Will be
Asked to Forego August Holidays.
London, July 13, 5.15 p. m. The al
lied offensive on the western front is
only in its beginning, declared Pre
mier Asquith today in announcing in
the house of commons that the gov
ernment had decided to ask workers
to forego their August holidays be
cause of the demand for munitions in
Prance. He expressed conviction that
the workmen would eo-operate in this
plan so as to make it plain to Great
Britain's foes that the offensive, in i;s
present intensity of bombardment and
assault, would, if necessary, be "con
tinued indefinitely." The premier also
announced that by royal permission
the August bank holidays would be
postponed and he appealed ' to all
classes for .postponement of all holi
days until further and definite prog
ress of the offensive had been secured.
The premier recalled that the Juno
and July holidays had been posted in
view of the urgent military require
ments of the moment and he had to
acknowledge on the part of the gov
ernment a very full response by the
workers to his appeal at that time.
"Since then," ho added, "a great and
very favorable change in the military
situation has been produced by tha
allied offensive now in progress. That
offensive," he continued, "is only in
its beginning and it necessarily re
quires for its success a continuous
supply of munitions of all kinds. From
the success achieved we have been
able to gauge the paramount necessity
of avoiding even the slightest risk of
the field, not merely in the weeks im- i
mediately before us, but until our ob
jective is achieved. In the opinion of
the commander-in-chief there must
be no slackening in the output even
for a moment. I therefore appeal to
the patriotism of the workers and the
public generally again to postpone
their holidays in order that the at
tack, so brilliantly begun, can be car
ried through to a triumphant conclu
sion." Where health required, continued
the premier, leave of absence would
be granted and the- government held
themselves . responsible for' seeing: that
the holidays were merely postponed
and not abandoned.
Representatives of the admiralty
and the ministry of munitions, he add-.
ed, would meet representatives of the
workmen and employers to secure
. their co-operation and be was sure,
this would be forthcoming" and that
the forces fn the field -would. "be given
encouragement and the".' enemy dis
couragement in the certains-knowledge
that Hb present intensity ol bombard-
; men ad aawwllfc wiT, Unnecessary, be
; coatttwaatediaaaiwly,"
jLLOY-O GrEOffOH AYS
TfDEHASv-TURNEU
' '
inrtifftfv Wrenched FMm3 Germans
Never to Return. .
for Possession of the
Kovel
AUSTRO - GERMAN LINE
Lloyd George, British minister of war,
presiding today at an allied confer
ence on equipment, declared that the
combined offensive of the allies had
wrenched the initiative from the Ger
mans, never, he trusted, to return.
"We have crossed the watershed,"
ho said, "and now victory is beginning
to How in our direction. This change
is due to the improvement in our
equipment."
Mr. Lloyd George said a miliion men
now are engaged building, outfitting
and repairing ships in the British
navy.
The conference was held at the war
office and was participated in by Al
bert Thomas, French minister of mu
nitions, General Beiiaorf, assistant
minister of war of Russia: General A.
Dull idliio, member of the Italian min
istry of war and the new British min
ister of munitions, Kdwin S. Montague.
CHARGED WITH KIDNAPPING
POOR LITTLE RICH BOY
Stepfather and Mother Took William
K. Lee Away From Guardian.
Danbury, Conn., July 13. This even
ing, Thomas Frederick Jee and his
mother, .Mrs. Emma Kenyon Lee, were
arrested here as fugitives from jus
tice. They are both well known in
White Plains, X. Y. Mr. Lee is the
stepfather of William K. Lee, who is
the heir to a million and a half dollars
and because litigation in which he is
involved has become known as the
"poor !i tie rich boy." Mr. Lee and
his mother were arrested by a dpttty
sheriff on a warrant charging them
with the kidnapping of this boy from
White Plains, X. Y. A guardian was
recently appointed over the youngster
and several days ago when he disap
peared the guardian, De Witt Lyon,
of portchester, had a warrant sworn
for the arrest of the two Lees. The
boy was later located in this city.
.Mr. Lee staged after his arrest that
he had no intention of stealing the
boy but that he just took him with
him when he came away from White
Plains for a visit. Their cases were
adjourned here until next Monday.
Both Lee and his mother are out on
bonds of $1,000 each.
A CENT TO EACH HER HEIRS
Miss Gilman Says None Ever Did Her
a Kindness.
Boston. July 13. The will of Anna
K. Gilman of Wakefield, filed in the
East Cambridge Court yesterday
leaves her legal heirs 1 cent each in
this provision:
"I give to all my legal heirs 1 cent
each to hold to them and their heirs
forever. I limit these bequests to so
small an amount because in a life of
fifty years I never have received from
any of them a single-kindness or cour
tesy." The will was made in 1897 and names
as executor Daniel C. Gilman, who
was then President of Johns Hop
kins University.
After several bequests, the will pro
vides that the residue of the estate
shall go into a trust fund, and the
trustees are given power to "loan or
give the income to any worthy exec
utrix (sic) who needs assistance to
enable her to obtain her legal rights."
NO ROOSEVELT COMPANY.
Colonel Abandons Plan to Raise Vol
unteers Against Mexico,
New York. July 13. Colonel Theo
dore Roosevelt has abandoned, for the
present at least, his plan to raise a
division of volunteer troops, accord
ing to an announcement tonight by
Regis H. Post, former governor of
PoTto Rico, who has had charge of
recruiting. Mr. Post, said the plan
had been dropped as war now seems
unlikely.
Bluecher's Grandson Dies From Fall
Berlin, via London, July 13, 7.07 p.
m. Prince Gebhardt Bluecher von
Wahlstatt. grandson of the first
famous Prince Bluecher, whose arrival
turned the tide in the battle of Wa
terloo, has died as the result of a fall
from his horse near Breslau.
The grandson of the old "Marshal
Forward" was no friend of the Prus
sians. For many years prior to the
outbreak of the war he lived in Eng
land and- in 1899 the Prussian house of
lords declared he had forfeited hi3
seat In that body.
55,000 Munition Employes on Strike.
Amsterdam, July '13, via,, London,
6.05 p. m. The socialist newspaper
Trilbu he asserts that 55,000 workmen
employed; ill. munition, factories and
electrical " works in Berlin and in an
aerodrome at Johannisthal have gone
on 'strike ;as;'a protest, against the
prlsort sentence imposed on Dr. Karl
Liebknecht, the- socialist leader, for
participation. in the May Day demon-.
straticn at Berlin.
Robbed . of $18,000 Neoklace.
Montreal, ' July 13. Airs. E. . R.
Thomas, - wife., of a ? New York1 banker
ana newspaper owner, was- robbed of
a necklace c valued, at $l'8,0O0; and J700
in .cash, here-today, according to.the
police. Mrs.;.Thomas carried- therval
uableg; and money in a handbag. She
reported tnat tne Dag was ' snatched
Cabled Paragraphs
Bill For Hugo War Credit.
The Hague July 13, via London, 4.35
px mar A bUl - providing for an extraordinary-
warctedlt of 75,000,000 flor
ins wase sumbitted today to the second
chamber.
Endows Professorship of Russian.
London, July-13. Sir Jamen Roberts
of Saltaire, who-has just made a gift
of lOiOOO pounds ($59,000) to the Uni
versity of Leeds for the foundation
and maintenance of a professorship of
Russian language and literature, is the
head of a firm which first introduced
the coarse Russian wool Into English
worsted manufacture.
Australian War Casualties 41,102.
Melbourne, Australia, July 12. The
Australian war casualties up to May
29 are officially given as 41,102. Three
hundred and seventy-five officers have
been killed, 251 wounded and 9 made
prisoners of war; and among the rank
and file 7,370 have been killed, 9,3(KS
wounded, 1,165 are missing and 53
prisoners. Sick officers number 689
and sick men '21,430.
Educational Funds Low in China.
Peking, July 13. Lack of funds has
resulted in the closing of many gov
ernment schools. The Peking High
Normal School for Girls has been
closed by order of the government, and
teachers in many of the colleges and
secondary schools and colleges have
not been paid for several months. Even
the foreign advisers of the late gov
ernment were not paid their salaries
of last month.
GERMAN AMBASSADOR
BOARDS THE DEUTSCHLAND
Von Bernstorff Congratulates Koenig
on the Great Voyage.
Baltimore. Md., July 13. -Count von
Bernstorff, the German ambassador,
spent an hour aboard the German sub
marine Deutsohlnnd today. He in
spected the vessel from stern to stern,
nil dthe intricate machinery and in
struments aboard explained to him
ad personally congratulated Captain
Koenig upon bringing his vessel safe
ly to America through waters infested
with hostile wai-craft.
Two attaches of the German em
bassy, the German and Austrian con
suls in Baltimore and Mayor Preston
accompanied the ambassador on his
visit to the submarine. The intense
heat inside the hull of the vessel,
generated 'by the sun rays beating up
on the deck and sides, prevented the
p.n-ty from remaining aboard longer
than an hour.
The ambassador informed Captain
Koenig that he would send to him be
fore the Deutschlnnd starts on her re
turn voyage several packets of official
papers which he desires to have de
livered intact to the Berlin foreign
office.
Some of these documents, embassy
ofiicials have been reluctant to trust
in the regular mails because it was
considered likely they would fall into
the hands of British censors.
The ambassador was enthusiastic
over the Doutschl.'ind:
"It is a wonderful boat and. with
as courageous a crew as ever sailed
the sea. has made a wonderful voy
age," he said. "I climbed up and down
every' hatchway, looked into every
compartment and had my first ex
perience with a periscope.
"Captain Koenig did not tell me just
when he expects to leave for Ger
many, but I presume it will be soon
after he has his return cargo aboard.
Te is in complete charge of the ves
sel and has his orders from Berlin.
His craft is
private one; just as
much as any North German Lloyd lin
er. My visit here was entirely un
official." Prior to visiting the submarine the
ambassador attended a. luncheon at the
Germania club, given in honor of Cap
tain Koenig. Tonight he was present
at a. dinner eiven by Mayor Preston
to the commander of the submarine.
He made his return on a late train for
New York.
Visitors who visited the submarine
emoted Captin Koenig as saying that
Zeppelin airship freighters are being
built in Germany for trans-Atlantic
service.
Diamonds on the Deutschland.
London, July 13. Tt has been learn
ed from a good source, says Reuter's
Amsterdam oorrof-nor dent in a des
patch today, that the principal object
of the voyage of the German commer
cial submarine Deutschland to the
United States was to convey a con
signment of diamonds which it had
hitherto been impossible to export.
SHRINERS NEXT YEAR
IN MINNEAPOLIS.
Denver Man Wins in Competition for
Office of Outer Guard.
Buffalo, N. Y., July 13. James C.
Burger of Denver was elected to the
office of outer guard, the first step
ping stone to the highest office in the
order, at the closing session of the
forty-second annual meetmg of the
Imperial Council, Nobles of the Mys
tic Shrine, here today. There was
keen competion for the honor this
year, David W. Crossland of Mont
gomery, Ala., leading up to the fourth
ballot in a field of five candidates.
Minneapolis was selected as the meet
ing place for June 26, 27 and 28, 1917.
All the Imperial officers advanced
one station according to custom ex
cept the secretary and treasurer, re
spectively William S. Brown, of
' Pla,tts1urg, and Benjamin W. Rowell
of Boston, who were re-elected. Hen
ry H. -Niedringhaus of St. Louis, thus
became imperial potentate.
The only temple to get a charter was
Alzafar of San Antonio, Texas. An
application for a charter for the Pan
ama Canal zone was refused.
IRain prevented the competitive
drills of Arab patrols this afternoon.
ONTARIO'S FOREST FIRE.
32,000 Soldiers In Training Went Out
to Fight Blaze.
Val Cartler, Ont, July 13.A11 the
tents and buildings of the bjg military
camp here were . evacuated and the
32,000 men, In' training-: were sent out as
fire fighters today when sparks from a
forest fire Sg-nned by a high wind
threatened a general conflagration.
The quarters of the 206th battalion of
Montreal were destroyed.
Steams Pi fp Movements.
Ohristlansand, . July 11. -Arrived:
Steamer Oscar IT.;-New-Torlc,
London, July,! 12- Arrived: 'Steamer
Pannonia, 5 New'; York.
" Kirkwalf,H Julyi2. Arrived: Steam
er Noordawi, New. York for Rotterdam,
New.York, July18. Sailed;- Steamer
Caltic. ., LiybTBooL)
Fear of Sharks
Shadows Resorts
ONLY THE VENTURESOME DARE
ENTER COAST WATERS
MORE MANEATERS SEEN
Matawan Authorities Offer Reward
For Every Shark Brought in Dead
or Alive Five-Footer Caught Near
Bridgeport, Second Within Week.
New York, June 13. Armed shark
hunters in motor bo's patrolled the
New York and New Jersey beaches in
a concerted effort to exterminate the
man-eaters which have moved north
from their customary haunts, appar
ently in large numbers. The villag"
of Matawan, N. J., offered a reward of
$100 for every shark brought in dead
o alive.
The theory that a single shark was
responsible for the killing of four
swimmers off New Jersey within the
past two weeks, two of them yester
day in Matawan Creek, a shallow in
let six miles from the open sea, has
been dispelled by' persons who actual
ly have seen half a dozen or more of
the monsters.
Sharks which formerly fed on food
thrown overboard from the many
steamships which plied before the
war began, now have become raven
ous, is one theory advanced. Even
those not ordinarily classed as man
eaters, it is said, probably have been
unven Dy starvation to lurk in the
warm waters of the Atlantic coast at
this season and attack human be
ings. Three Sharks Bottled Up.
Three of the huge fish were seen to
day in Matawan Creek and now are
believed to be bottled up there. Nets
have been stretched under a bridge
about a mile and a half from the
mouth of the inlet to prevent egress
into Raritan bay. A sloop arriving
from Bermuda was reported tonignt
to have brought the heads of several
shaiks along the way. some of them
off the New Jersey coast.
Terror at Coast Resorts.
Terror has seized the multitudes
who have bathed at resorts along the
New Pork and New Jersey coasts and
comparatively few now venture into
the water. At Asbury Park and oth
er resorts nets have been strung
around the bathing area.
Man-Eater's Teeth. Give Out Poison.
Dr. George J. Reynolds of Matawan,
who attended Stanley "Fisher, v.li-i w is
so seriously mangled in a 1 "tfie with
a shark yesterday that he died a few
hours later, performed an autopsy on
Fisher's body today. He declared he
found the flesh torn by the man-eater's
teeth impregnated with a pecu
liar poisonous liquid which seemed to
h;1 ve a deadening effect on the nerves
and museles. This probably explained,
he said, why Fisher apparently had
little sensation of pain when the
shark took off his leg.
AH Search For Boy's Sody Fails.
Little hope is entertained for the
recovery of the body of twelve year
old Lester Stillwell. the other victim
of the Matawan Creek tragedy. It s
believed that he was devoured by the
shark, as persistent dragging of the
inlet and dynamiting of the water
have failed to bring up the body.
Many conflicting reports were re
ceived here during the day from va
rious points along the New York and
New Jersey coasts regarding the kill
ing of sharks, but only one appears to
have had any foundation in fact. This
was the news brought in by Anthony
Lundy, catain of a fishing boat, who
said he had clubbed to death a nine
foot shark, weighing 450 pounds, while
cruising off Elheron, N. J. A fisherman
reported tonight that he had tried
vainly to kill with an oar a seven foot
monster which became entangled in
his nets. He said the shark tried
to strike his boat.
Five Foot Shark Near Bridgeport.
Bridgeport, Conn., July 13. A five
foot shark, the second within a week,
was caught today in a small inlet
close to Fairfield Beach, one of the
most popular bathing places in this
vicinity. The big fish apparently had
come across the shoals during high
tide and had been left stranded by the
receding waeer. This shark is be
lieved not to be of the man-eating
species such as has been causing ter
ror on the New Jersey coast, but the
fact that that kind of big sea mon
sters is in the 'Sound is causing much
uneasiness at shore resorts.
Followed Boat for Miles.
New York, July 13. A nine
shark, weighting 45-0 pounds.
foot
was
clubbed to death by a party of New
York fishermen while cruising off El
beron, -N. J., yesterday afternoon, An
thony Lundy, the captain of the fish
ing 'boat reported today.
According to the ca,ptain's story the
shark followed the boat for miles un
til a special hook was bent on a heavy
line and thrown overiboard with fresh
meat as bait. The shark swallowed
the bait as soon as it touched tho
water.
10 Foot Shark on Hook and Line.
Riverhead, N. Y., July 13. Fisher
men returning here today (reported
they had caught a ten foot shark on
a hook and line in Long Island Sound
yesterday.
No Effect on Boston Beaches.
Boston, July 13. Bathers on the (At
lantic beaches in New England need
have no fear of sharks according to
Directors of the Boston Fish Bureau,
an organization maintained by the
fishing interests. The : bureau has no
records' of knowledge of any man
eating s-harics - having heen found in
Massachusetts Bay and the -directors
said they believed the fish never came
north of Long Island. The reported
presence of man-eaters off the New
Jersey coast had no apparent effect
on the crowds at the hathlmg beaches
in tihia vlncinity today. lAt Revere
Beach alone, 20,000 people , went into
the surf to escape the heat during the
day according to the records of the
state barth house.
Martial Law Throughout Spain.
Madrid,' via Paris, July 13, 8.40 p. m
In view of the government ' has sus
pended the constitutional g-uaranitees
and martial law was .. proclaimed
throughout Spain tonight. King Al
fonso has arrived at Madrid from La
Granla. A general strike is annotinc-
cd, forJTtdy 16.J
Ilass Meeting on
Infantile Paralysis
NO OCCASION FOR PANIC, SAYS
DR. SIMON FLEXNER
MANY FALSE ALARMS
Health Commissioner Has Found Only
1,600 True Cases Out of 2,600 Sus
pects in New York City Hartford
Reports Second Death.
New York, July 13. Leaders in the
medical profession, public health ex
perts from many cities, philanthropists
and charity workers thronged the
rooms of the Academy of Medicine here
tonight at a mass meeting for the dis
cussion of infantile paralysis, which
has brought death into hundreds of
homes here in the past few weeks.
Those who hoped that a cure for the
disease would be heralded or that that
isolation of its deadly germ would be
announced were isappolnted. Dr. Si
mon Flexner of the Rockefeller In
stitute for Medical Research and oth
er experts told of the progress made
by medical science in combatting the
disease, but they had no epoch-mark
ing discovered to proclaim.
Dr. Flcxner declared, however, that
there is no occasion for panic. He
asserted that the death rate from pa
ralysis is lower than from other mala
dies considered far less serious and
that in a large per centage of cases
there are complete recoveries.
Artificial respiration was suggested
by Louis C. Ager as one method of
treatment. He said it was possible
considerable might be accmophshed m
that way.
Dr. Haven Emerson, health com
missioner of this city, asserted the
widespread alarm which pamets feel
is not justified. He pointed out that
out of 2600 suspected cases investigat
ed only 1.64H true cases of infantile
paralysis had been found of which
30-S resulted fatally.
MERIDEN BARS CHILDREN.
None May Enter From New York City
or Other Paralysis Foci.
Meriden, Conn.. July 13. Children
tinder 16 years of age coming from
New York or other vicinities where
infantile paralysis is prevalent will be
prohibited from entering this city af
ter midnight Friday and a heavy fine
will lie imposed upon any who secret
ly come here and are discovered. This
ruling was made by the. health com
mittee at a meeting this evening.
Meriden is the first city in the state
to take such drastic action. There are
no cases he,e but two have been re
ported in Vaiesville, three miles away.
As far as is known no New En gland
city has yet disbarred children, ir'ixty
seven children from New;. York are al
ready in the city but they w-iU not be
deported as all have been examined
and found to be free from symptoms
of the disease.
Tomorrow the entire city and out
skirts will be posted with big placards
announcing th? edict. These cards
will be forwarded for posting at the
New' York terminals and also to rail
road stations in other cities which
have cases o" the disease. Every train
that enters the city will be watched.
The surrounding: cities will be posted
and trolleys and automobiles coming
into the city will be searched.
Rockefeller Expert at Bridgeport.
Bridgeport. Conn., July 13. Dr. Ab
raham Sophian, of the Rockefeller in
stitute, who stamped out the paralysis
epidemic in Texas, has been obtained
by the Bridgeport city authorities to
take charge of the fight against Polio
mys'itis here.
All entrances to the city were guard
ed today by policemen and nurses.
The city had been charted and every
person from a home where infection
has been, and all refugees from New
York were listed for examination pur
poses. Another Case in Hartford.
Hartford, July 13. The second case
of infantile paralysis in this city, so
far as known, was reported to the
board of health today. The patient,
Sarah, 5 years old, daughter of Mr.
and Mrs. David Handler of 2G4 Wind
sor avenue-, was removed at once to
the isolation hospital. It is said by
neighbors that a New York family
with children had been visiting in the
same house recently. The Handler
child has been ill since Saturday but
her symptoms were not pronounced
until today.
The fifteen months old child, ill with
the disease, at Kilbourn court for sev
eral days, died last night.
SOUTH MANCHESTER STRIKE
MAY BE ADJUSTED.
Superintendent Invited to Address the
Employees Who Walked Out.
South Manchester. Conn.. July 13.
Possibility of the settlement of the
strike in the picking department of
Cheney Brothers silk mills was be
lieved to oe indicated wrhen it was
learned tonight that James Egan, su
perintendent of the department, had
been invited to address a meeting of
the strikers tomorrow. It was said to
night that if the trouble is not ad
justed, a"bout S00 other employes will
be compelled to stop work.
No disorder was reported today but
several strikers, it was said, had
threatened violence to one of their
number who returned to work today.
The men afterwards walked out again.
An Tinion organizer came here to
day, it was learned, and there was an
unconfirmed report that a representa
tive of the Industrial Workers of the
World was in town. Twenty-five silk
workers from out of town also arrived
in South Manchester today.
House Completes Water Power Bill.
Washington, July 13. The Shields
water power bill to permit private in
terests to build dam in navigable
streams - was completed by the house
today, but final vote on passage was
deferred untjl tomorrow. The Rucker
campaign publicity bill, much like the
Owen corrupt practices (bill now pend
ing in the senate then was debated.
Freight Rate Increases Postponed.
Washington, July 13. Proposed in
creases of' from te nto twenty per
cent. - in rates on clay gypsum, paint
andiplaster boards from New England
by rail and late to Duluth, Minn.,
were suspended by the Interstate
Commerce Commission to Nocember
Condensed Telegrams
Lassen, Volcano, Cat., la again in
eruption.
About 6,000 Americans still remain
in Mexico.
All German officers commanding
Bulgarian troops are reported to have
been recalled.
Smallpox is raging in Porto Rico,
the Public Health Service at Washing
ton announced.
An epidemic of measles has broken
out in the state mobilization camp at
Nashville. Tenn.
Herman Doetsch, aged 49, a hermit,
was found murdered in his shack near
Monticello, N. Y.
Britain has approved the resolution
adopted at the recent conference of
the Allies in Paris.
England will release 460 Irishmen
held prisoners for participating in the
recent Dublin rebellion.
Danger of further damage to Geor
gia crops by floods is over, as the riv
ers are receding rapidly.
John Griffin, aged 50, committed
suicide at his home in Camden, N. J.,
by drinking carbolic acid.
British vessels making Buenos Aires
now travel with all lights out at night,
fearing German sea raiders.
The United States Steel Corpora
tion placed an order for 44S freight
cars for the Carnegie Steel Co.
The strike or ironworkers at Bilboa,
Spain, which threatened to spread
over the entire country, was settled.
Americans living in Chihuahua and
northern Mexico are reported wearing
small British flags to escape insult.
Under a hot sun, the 22nd Battalion
of Engineers entrained for the Mex
ican border at Camp Whitman, N. Y.
Dr. Edmund von Mach conferred
with Acting Secretary of State Polk
regarding the milk supply in Germany.
hauncey M. Depew was the chief
speaker at the National Fertilizer As
sociations' meeting, at Hot. Springs,
Va.
"Bracebit Biil" Armstrong, supposed
to have escaped from Sing Sing last
Friday was captured within prison
bounds.
The Mexican Northwestern Railroad
has again bee nopened for shipments
of supplies to American troops in
Mexico.
William H. Gallagher was suspendtd
from the hicago Board of Trade for
two years , because of general irreg
ularities. Two thousand delegates attended
the first open session of the Motion
Picture Exhibitors' League of America
in Chicago.
Five special trains carrying more
than 3,000 business men for the senior
division of the July camp, arrived at
Plattsburg, N. l .
Sir William Wallace, for many years
in the services of the British gov
ernment in Nigeria, died at his home
at Devon, England.
Express companies will accept ship
ments of gifts and supplies to troops
on the Mexican border at two-
thirds the regular rates.
Mrs. Niblo, sister of George M. Co
han, died at her home in New York
of heart trouble, superinduced by many-
years of stage dancing.
One man is known to have been
killed, and several are missing in a fire
the destroyed a hotel and several res
idences at Duryea, Pa.
An order for 100,000 steel billets, to
cost $700,000, is reported to have been
awarded the Canadian Car & Foundry
Co., by the Imperial Munition Board.
Maj-Gen. Goethals, governor of the
Panama Canal Zone, was told by
President Wilson that he could retire
from his duties as soon as he wishes.
Relief totaling $2,000,000 for clothing
and feeding destitute Mexicans is pro
vided in a bill offered the House by
Representative Randall of California.
With a band of 2,000 rebels, the Ce-
dillo brothers, operating in the State
of San Luis Potosi, unconditionally
surrendered to the arranza govern
ment. War Department engineers made an
unfavorable report on the improve
ment of the Youghhioheny River, up
to West Newton, Pa., at a cost of
$1,0-50,000.
Immediate organization of a rational
guard recruiting service to bring the
regiment on the border up to full war
strength was authorized by the War
Department.
Although as high as $50,000 has
been offered for a passage on the sub
marine Detuschland on her return trip,
her owners indicate that no passengers
will be carried.
The Yellow Fever Commission of the
International Health Board of the
Rockefeller Foundation, headed by
Gen. William C. Gorgas, TJ. S. A., ar
rived at Lima, Peru.
The Iron Trade Review reports
that the principal feature of the
iron and steel industry is a foreign de
mand for semi-finished steel, pig iron
and finished materials.
The American tank steamer Gold
Shell, bound for New York struck a
mine and was badly damaged. She is
being lightered at the mouth of the
Gironde River, France.
Bequeathing his landlady $500 be
cause he used her house as "a depot
to the other world," J. D. Connell, cf
Washington, committed suicide at his
boarding house in Detroit.
Directors of the Pennsylvania Rail
road Co. appropriated a sum not to
exceed $100,000, for relief of dependent
families of employes of the road who
are now serving with the militia.
McAIIen, Pharr and Mission, three
Texan towns where New York militia
is encamped were struck by a torren
tial rainstorm, which demolished many
tents and turned the camps Into mutf
flats.- '
ELECTRIC STORM COSTS TWO LIVES!
Young New Britain Farmer Instantly Killed by;
Lightning Bolt
WAS HIT WHILE STANDING IN HIS BARN DOORi
Thomas Hickey Was Fatally Struck at Manchester Rockville !
Had Sidewalks Washed Away, With $2;000 Damage j
Danbury Almost Isolated Wires Do-.ra All Over the!
State Great Tobacco Losses.
New Haven, Conn., July 13. Connec
ticut was visited today by an electrio
storm of unusual intensity accomp
anied by a heavy downpour of rain
and in some localities hail. Cms life
was lost and possibly two. Arthur
Munson, a young farmer, was struck
down and killed by lightning in his
barn door at New Britain and Thom
as Hickey of South Manchester, was
so badly shocked by lightning there
that his recovery is considered by the
physicians as very doubtful.
Reports from all over the state
brought stories of telegraph .tele
phone and trolley wires down, trolley
service held up or crippled .trees up
rooted, houses unroofed and more or
less damage. In the tobacco grow
ing belt it was said the losses would
be thousands of dollars.
Rockville was particularly hard hit.
WILLIMANTIC MAN KILLED;
LOST CONTROL OF AUTO
Erwin E. Morse Impaled on Fence on
Way From Scotland.
Willimantic, Conn., July 13. Erwin
E. Morse, a building contractor of this
cit ywas killed tonight when he lost
control of his automobile truck driv
ing from Scotland to this city. The
machine swerved from the road into
a fence, one of the rails of which im
paled Morse. He was brought to this
city was killed tonight when he lost
dead when the car arrived, ihe med
ical examiner said Morse had lived
only a few moments and gave verdict
of death to ruptured viscera.
William A. Grady, employed by
Morse, was riding with him. Grady
was thrown some distance irom tne
car but escaped serious harm. The
truck was slightly damaged.
FLAGPOLE SNAPPED IN TWO
Trees Torn Up, Roof Blown Off, Wires
Down at Rockville.
Rockville, Conn., July 13. Rock
ville was visited today by one of the
worst hail, wind and rain storms in
years. Rain fell for two hours and
lightning and thunder were incessant.
Several places in town were struck,
buildings were unroofed, trees from
ujoj eja.w jejauiBm ui oavj oj euo
up, many windows were broken all
over the city by the hail and hundreds
of feet of curbing and sidewalks were
washed out, while streets and parks
were littered with branches of trees
and other wreckage. A 100-foot flag
pole in the central green was snapped
in two. Telegraph and telephone wires
were torn down by falling trees and
trolley service was partially crippled.
In some cases it was necesarsy to
close factories owing to the damage
done by lightning and wind. In one
instance a canal overflowed and wash
ed a large quantity of coal into a dye
room of a factory doing considerable
damage to stock there. The roof
was torn from the White Grain store
and dropped on the railroad tracks
some distance away. Considerable
damage was done to tobacco and other
crops. So far as reported, no one was
injured.
Rockville Factories Had to Close.
Rockville was -particularly hard hit,
some factories having to close depart
ments because of havoc wrought by
the storms, hundreds of feet of curb
ing and sidewalks were reported wash
ed away there and it was estimated it
would cost the city at least $2,000 to
replace them. Trees were torn up and
the whole city practically was littered
with the wreckage.
Danbury was isolated tonight so far
as wire communication was concerned
except to Waterbury, reports coming
by way of Waterbury indicated that
lightning had struck a number of
times in Danbury.
Dropped 23 Degrees in 14 Minutes.
In Hartford the storm displayed
considerable violence but no serious
damage was done. A remarkable fea
ture was a drop of 23 degrees in tem
perature inside of fourteen minutes.
In this city lightning struck and par
tially destroyed a barn, crippled trol
ley service to some extent by causing
the burning out of several cars. The
electric system of the New Yorw, New
Haven and Hartford railroad was ef
fected to some extent and it was nec
essary to use steam locomotives on
trains.
North Haven Post Office Struck.
Lightning struck the postofflce at
North Haven during the height of the
storm and did some damage to the
building.
Willimantic Man Revived After Bolt.
Willimantic, Conn., July 13. -One
man was struck by lightning, the plant
of the Rockville and Willimantic Elec
tric Lighting company put out of
commission and about 250 telephones
and forty telegraph wires rendered
useless by one of the severest electrio
storms which has visited this section
in years.
The man struck was William John
son. He was overcome by the bolt as
he was walking along the street and
dropped unconscious but was later
revived. A dwelling house was hit
and partly unroofed.
The electric lighting plant was en
tirely crippled and business places and
homes which depended on it were
without light or power tonight. An
effort was being made to secure a
connection at Thamesville, but it was
said if WtiS was successful it would
be late tonight before the situation
was remedied.
The Willimantic Chronicle, an after
noon paper, was forced to suspend
publication because of the stoppage cf
the electric lighting company s plant
Dying After Llghnlng Bolt.
Manahesterv Geniu. Julx.l3Tiioaiaa
Hickey, 58, a prominent resident of i
this town and brother of Colonel Jc-hnl
Hickey of Hartford, ia unconscious and!
in the optnion or the pnysician,. aying;
tonight-at his ""home here as a ; result
of being struck by lightning during a'
severe storm hree.
New Londoners Felled - by Lightnings
New London, Conn., July 13. Thia
city was in the grip of ; a severe. eleci
trio and thunder storm from, 3,oclocki'
this afternoon until 7 : o'clock; tonight,!
during which time , one chimney of "aj
tenement house, a telephone pole andi
adjacent sidewalk were struck by boltaj
of lightning. No one was seriously in-i
Jured although Herman Katz, proprie-i
tor of a store on Crystal avenue, and
Michael Spelman, a customer, werei
felled by a bolt when it struck 4 the?
sidewalk, within a foot of the store, j
While a Willimantic-New Londoni
trolley car was on its way to this cityi
lightning struck the car half a., milej
above Montville at 3. Id o clock and
disabled the motor. None of the-rew
or passengers was hurt. The line was
In a tie-up for nearly two hours.
Wallingford Bottling Works Hit. i
Wallingford. Conn., Jutte 13. Llgbt-j
ning struck the bottling works of R.'
S. Botsford here late today during a,
severe storm, but no one was njur-i
ed. !
Killed1 Standing in Doorway.
New Britain, Conn., July 13. Ar-i;
thur 'Mutison, 21 years old, was struck!
and killed by lightning as he stood inj
the doorw-ay of his barn near heredur-j
ing the eleotrio storm this afternoon.
Tho .'iKMr-rng also set the baro on
tire an-1 it was burned to tha &iound. i
Danbury Isolated by Storm. '
Danbuiy, Conn., July 13. Danburyj
is-praeticElly isolated from the rest vtl
tho r-oestry (V Is evening a roult oft
the 3rr ctrical v-to this -)
son, i-'": ktivck this ipi4?s tut aft-j
ernoon. j
The lightning struck many place
in the city and all wire communica-i
tions except to Waterbury werotf
severed.
Tobacco Coverings Set on Fire. '
Windsor, Conn- July 13. Thousands!
of doHars damage to growing tobacco
throughout this section resulted todn-V
from the severe electrio storm. During
the storm hailstones as large as wal-j
nuts fell in laie quantities. Canvas
coverings on shade grown tobacco
were set; fire and destroyed together!
with the crops they were shading..
Some estimates place the loss coti-l
siderably in excess of $100,000. j
Thousands of Acres of Tobacco Dam-;
aged.
SufPeld, Conn.. July 13. About a
thousand acres of tobacco was damag
ed in the Mapleton and Hastings Hill
districts of the town today by a heavy
wind and rain storm. It was said that
the monetary loss would be compar
atively light as the tobacco plants had
been out only a short time. Treea
were uprooted by the terrific violence,
of the storm. As they fell they carried:
down trolley and electric light wires
with the result that the town is In
darkness tonight and trolley service
Is crippled. j
Wind and Rain Crippled Service, j
Thcmpsonville. Conn., July 13. Tel-j
ephone, trolley and electric service was
crippled, by a severe wind and rain
storm which swept tnrougn Tnomp-
scnvflle late today. carrying down
trees, telephone and trolley poles. Tho
town was without street lights to
night. A young man about 20 years!
old was badly burned by coming In-!
to contact with a live wire. i
- - i
$315,000,000 NAVAL BILL '
BEFORE THE SENATE j
Biggest Appropriation in Nation's His
tory Arouses Little Opposition
Washington, July 13. The senate
today began discussion of the $315,
000,000 naval toil, the largest naval ap
propriation measure by many millions
in the nation's history and bearing in
creases of nearly $50,000,000 over its
total as it passed the house. Senate
leaders emphasized their intention of
expediting its consideration and lit
tle opposition was aroused to the com
mittee amendments presented.
An indication that the senate is in;
sympathy with the liberal increases
written into the bill by the senate na i
val committee was seen in the appro- j
val without opposition of a section ;
increasing the enlisted strength of the i
navy from the present 54,000 to 48,- 1
700 men and 6,000 apprentice seamen.-
The house bill provided for an in-1
crease to only 61,000 men, j
The only committee recommendation ,
which met ' determined opposition to
day was one providing for a commas- j
sion to report on the advisability ofi
establishing at least one more naval
academy. After a long debate, in
which Senator Weeks led the opposi
tion to the proposal and Senator Phe
lan and otherse, defended -it, the sen
ate sustained the committee, 32 to 27. j
MAJOR STODDARD RESIGNS.
Gives Up Treasurership of Democratic
State Central Committee.
New Haven, Conn., July 13, The,.
resignation of Major Louis E. Stpd-j
dard of this city as treasurer of thaj
dernooratjc state central cornmittea,
wais announced tonight. The resigria-rj
tion takes effect immediately, ilajopi
Stoddard in tendering his resignation'
to Dayid B. Fitzgerald, chairman of
the committee, ajso turned pver to
mm all tunas or the committee now
in his hands, i.jjq reafn fop hq ry
. siacation jeaaai van-
:
