First
Maui County Fair!
Nov. 30, Dec. 1 and 2
Boost The
Maui County Fair
VOLUME XXIII.
WAILUKU, MAUI, T. II., JULY 14, 1916.
NUMBER 21
National Guard May
Help County Fair
Big Assembly Proposed For That Time
Of Maui's Soldiers Colors To Be
Presented Armory Popular
if present plans of Col. H. A. Bald
win and his staff are carried out, the
time of the Maul County Fair, (Nov
ember 30, December 1 and 2) will be
the time for a big exhibition by the
Third Infantry, National Guard of
Hawaii. At that time Governor Pink
ham has already promised to be pres
ent, and it is believed that by that
time the Maul regiment will be In
shape to make a splendid showing.
Col. Baldwin wrote to General John
son this week suggesting this time for
the proposed presentation of a hand
some stand of regimental colors,
which have been prepared for the 3rd
Infantry by two Honolulu firms, the
Schumann Carriage Company, and
Wall & Dougherty. , The first named
has had made a beautiful regimental
standard of orange and black silk,
bearing the words "Third Regiment
of Infantry" and the motto, "Maul No
Ka Oi", together with the Hawaiian
coat of arms. The flag Is a beautiful
silk banner of regulation size, and Is
most richly embellished.
It was at first planned to make the
presentation within the next few
weeks, at which time the Governor,
Brig-Gen. Johnson, and Maj. James D.
Dougherty, and possibly other officers
of the brigade staff, would be present
to take part in the ceremony and to
make an Inspection of the regiment
It is entirely possible, however, that
the time may be postponed a couple
of months by which time It Is hoped
to have all the men uniformed and
equipped, and able to make a very
creditable appearance.
1st Battalion Working Hard
The companies of the 1st Battalion
are drilling hard and improving rap
idly The men are taking much inter
est, especially with the completion of
the' improvements at the Armory.
Here, each company now has its own
company room with lockers, showers,
and other paraphernalia, while the
general floor of the building has been
equipped for indoor baseball, and bas
ket ball ,and other sports . Each of
the four companies has the exclusive
use of the Armory three nights each
month, and it is rapidly taking on the
characteristics of a club house. Und
er the direction of Malor H. B. Pen
hallow, and of Capt. W. S. Chilling
worth, sports officer, the Armory now
presents a most attractive appearance.
Target practice with sub-caliber guns
is also one of the important attract
ions of the Armory.
Pioneer Mill Prepares
To Cut Big Melon
The directors of Pioneer Mill Com
pany met in Honolulu on Monday and
voted to call a special meeting of
the shareholders for July 21. They
have recommended a stock dividend
of $1,000,000 and this is the proposit
ion the shareholders will be asked to
vote on.
The directors also voted to pay an
extra dividend of one percent in addi
tion to the regular monthly dividend
on August 1.
Pioneer'B official estimate for the
crop of 1916 is 30,000 tons. The com
pany's capital stock is now $4,000,000,
and based on stock quotations the
plantation is worth over $10,000,000.
It is entirely out of debt, having re.
deemed all outstanding bonds last
March. This action of the directors
has been predicted for a long time.
On the basis of six percent sugar the
company will probably pay at least
24 percent on its enlarged capitalizat
ion during the next eighteen months.
H. C. & S. CO. FINISHES GRINDING
The Puunene mill will practically
finish its season tomorrow, and the
total production will be in the neigh
borhood of 59,000. This is about
1000 tons more than the estimate, and
within about 1000 tons of the banner
1912 crop which ran over 60,000 tons.
Earlier indications were that this
year's output would break all records,
but inferiority in quality of the juices
this season cut down the yield
WILL SUPERINTEND
BUILDING NEW CHURCH
C. W. Dickey, formerly of the Is
lands, but now a well known architect
of San Francisco, arrived by the Ma
noa this week to look into the matter
of the construction of the new Bald,
win memorial church at Pala, of which
he Is the designer. The new structure
will be of reinforced concrete surfac
ed with lichen-covered field stones,
and promises to be one of the most
beautiful church buildings in the
territory.
n
L. Weinzhelmer, manager of the
Pioneer Mill Company, was a business
visitor to Honolulu the first of this
week.
Good Yield Of Cane
On Pineapple Land
Experiment At -Haiku Highly Promis
ing May Restore Fertility For
Pines Railroad May Be Extended
Sugar cane culture, In connection
with pineapples, is the latest possibil
ity for the Haiku homesteads. The
Idea has been suggested before, but it
is only now that there is apparently
some real basis for the belief that it
may become a reality. Within the
past few weeks there has been harv
ested from a third of an acre of pine
apple land a fraction less than 13 tons
Demerara cane which has been
milled at the Maul Agricultural Com
pany's mill at Paia. The results of
this exper'ment were 1 ton of sugar
for a little more than 7 tons of cane,
with sucrose of 17 and purity of 86.7
The cano was grown on land of the
Haiku Fruit & Packing Company
which had previously been in pine
apples, by Manager W. A. Baldwin,
without irrigation, and without proper
care throughout a portion, at least,
of its growing period. Nor was the
crop forced with nitrates or excess
of other fertilizers. M. Baldwin has
been experimenting for a number of
years with various varieties of cane
In the Haiku district, but the Demera
ra is the first that has given evidence
of being well adapted to the condit
ions. The Hawaii experiment station
is also interested in the possibilities
of cane growing in the Haiku d'strlct,
and has test plantings of a number of
varieties the results of which are
likely to be valuable later.
May Extend Railroad
While it is not expected that sugar
will ever supplant pineppples in the
Ha'ku district, the need of some profit
able rotation crop has come to be rec
ognized ,and pineapple growers are in
hopes that five or six years in cane
will restore the 'land for pines as
well or better than permitting it to
lie fallow.
In case the homesteaders and 'other
land owners in the district can be in
duced to go into the cane business on
sufficient rcale, it is reported that the
Kahulul Railroad Company will prob
ably extend its line for another mile
or more, along the lines of a previous
ly surveyed rout. This extension
was projected some four years ago,
hut was abandoned on account of the
financial depression at that time.
Baldwin Will Guarantee
Upkeep Of Kokomo Road
The board of supervisors, at its
meeting yesterday, approved the plan
of turning over the Kokomo-Haiku
road for maintninance to W. A. Bald
win, manager of the Haiku Fruit &
Packing Company. There is some
thing over 6 miles of this road, inclu
ding the two branches to the main
belt road ner Pauwela, and the county
has authorized an expenditure of $100
per month for this work. The road is
a much traveled one and an expensive
one to keep np, and the supervisors
appear to believe that they have
made a good bargain.
Will Use Tractor
Mr. Baldwin proposes doing prac
tically all of the work with the county
road graders and the pineapple com
pany's 30 horse-power . caterpillar
tractor. This tractor was tried out
on the roads for the first time last
Saturday, and the results were high
ly satisfactory. The grader was run
from Haiku to Peahl and back In a few
hours, over an exceedingly bad road,
without the slightest difficulty. The
big engine is said to have done the
work of eight or ten teams of bullocks,
about three times as fast, and without
a hitch. So far as is known, this is
the first time that a tractor has been
used for road grading in the Islands,
though the practice is becoming quite
common in many parts of the main
land during the past few years.
-n
MAUI HAS GASOLINE FAMINE
Maul has Just had a gasoline famine.
From last Friday until yesterday aft
ernoon the au'omobllist who had a
few gallons of the volatile energy pro
ducer hidden away somewhere, was
in luck. Gasoline was sold in Wailu
ku and at other places for as high as
40 to 50 cents a gallon, and then for a
time it couldn't be had for even
that figure. It simply wasn't here.
The Kahulul Railroad's supply was ex
hausted.and nobody else had any.
The gasoline schooner Ida May reliev
ed the situation slightly on Sunday,
with a small cargo from Honolulu
hut it was not until yesterday that an
oil tanker from the coast arrived, and
really broke the famine.
The steam schooner Wilmington,
which brought a cargo of redwood to
Kahului, is expected to get away today
for liana, where she will take on
1100 tons of sugar of the Kaeleku Sug
ar Company. The Wilmington will be
followed here by the Rithet, about the
first of August.
Hana Gets Saloon
On Second Hearing
Most Hana Voters Sign For And Again
st Now Has Two Booze Houses
Garcia Withdraws Application
Maui has one more saloon than she
thought she had. At the special
meeting of the liquor license board
held yesterday morning, L. Y. Aiona,
of Hana, had his license renewed, and
the east. Maui metropolis again enjoys
the luxury of a bar-room after fore
going that, boon for 13 days. At the
sRme time she stills retains her
wholesale liquor house for which most
persons believed she had swapped
her saloon a few weeks ago.
Aiona was refused a renewal of
his license at the regular meeting of
the board held on June 19. From the
petitions before the board at that
time, this seemed to be in accordance
with the wishes of the people of the
d'strlct. as did the granting of a new
wholesale license to J. A. Medeiros.
Aiona, who was not present at the
first meeting.asked for a reconsider
ation of his application on the grounds
that the sentiment of the people of
Hana had not been fairly understood.
The reconsideration was allowed, and
apparently Aiona was right.
Many Sign Two Petitions
More than a majority of the voters
of Hana precinct signed their names
to a petition against Alona's saloon,
and then signed another favoring it.
No small number, whose names ap
pear on Aiona's petition, also had
letters of protest against the saloon
on file with the board. The petition
against the saloon contained 122
names of voters in the precinct of
Hana proper. Aiona presented two
petitions signed by 155 names, of
which 85 were voters in Hana pre
cinct. The total number of register
ed voters in the precinct is only 145.
Moreover the men who thus nullified
their 'nfluence and made themselves
ridiculous by signing opposing petit
Ions, are in many cases among tho
leading citizens of the district
Following a canvass of the p tit'ons
and letter of protest, D. H. Case mov
ed that the application of Aiona be
not granted. His motion was second
ed by C. D. Lufkin, but the motion
was lost, W.-F. Kaae and D. C. Lind
say voting against it, and Chairman
T. B. Lyons votoing with the negat
ives. A motion to grant the license
then carried, Case and Lufkin oppos
ing. Garcia Withdraws Petition
A. Garcia, who also applied for a
rehearing on his application for a
saloon license for Wailuku, withdrew
his application after the question of
granting it had been put, but not
voted upon. The board thereupon a
dopted a resolution requiring that here
after requests to withdraw applicat
ions shall be filed with the secretary
of the board before the day and hour
set for the hearing .
-tt-
Judge Edings Does
Not Want To Leave
Wish Of Oahu Democrats To Have Him
Succeed Judge StuartNotToIIisLik
ing Feels Same as Before
"Anybody who suggsts that a man
would leave Wailuku and go to Hon
olulu for the benefit of his health must
have something the matter with his
head", is the comment Judge Edings
made when his attention was called
to a story in a Honolulu paper to the
effect that he has asked for the place
on the bench of the first circuit court,
made vacant by the reported resign
ation of Judge Stuart. ''If anything
were the matter with my health", stat
ed Judge Edings, "I most certainly
would not go to Honolulu to improve
it".
So far as the Maui Jurist knows or
has been advised, there is no vacancy
on the Honolulu bench, he indicated.
Nor has he lead anyone to think that
he had changed his mind during the
past year. About a year ago he was
appointed to the first circuit by the
department in Washington, to take the
place of Judge Whitney, who seemed
to have no chance of reappointment.
It was only after Judge Edings had
very emphatically expressed his de
sire to remain in Wailuku that the ap
pointment was withdrawn and his
wishes ncceded to .
Oahu Democrat Want Him
The talk of taking Judge Edings to
Honolulu comes through the efforts of
the democratic party to find a quali
fied man of their own party to take
the Honolulu vacancy. It Is reported
that the bar association has been ask
ed to endorse Edings for the pluce,
but thus far has taken no action.
There is little doubt that whatever in
fluence can be brought to bear by
Maui members of the bar and by citi
zens, will be exercised to the limit to
prevent Judge Edings being removed.
Molokai Chorus Is
Third Time Winner
Champion Island Singers Take Home
For Good The Atherton Banner
Thousands Hear Wonderful Music
Molokai has won the great inter
island choir contest. In the presence
of a crowd of at least 2000 persons,
who packed the Hilo armory to capac
ity, the big choir of the Halawa and
Waialua church on Thursday night
of last week won for the third succes.
sive time the much-coveted Kate Ath
erton banner. The trophy is now final
ly in the possession of the splendid
aggregation of singers from Molokai,
whose work has been the wonder of
all musicians who have heard them.
The contest was decided upon
pointsby a committee of judges of
which Mrs. J. D. Lewis was chairman.
Molokai was given 91 points, the next
nearest being the choir of Haili
Church, Hilo, which received 88
points. The other choirs in the con
test were those of Kauai, Maul and
Kona. The Kaumakapili choir of
Honolulu did not contest, having tak
en part 'n a new banner contest of
the Sunday schools , on the previous
Monday night, and won. This first
contest was the cause of some gener
al misapprehension throughout the is
lands, and the impression that Oahu
had defeated Molokai. The fact of
the matter Is that the real contest was
on Thursday night, and that Molokai
for a third time made a remarkable
showing and carried off first honors.
In the opinion of many who heard this
as well as previous contests, Molokai
this year surpassed even her own pre
vious splendid work :
A great deal of the credit for the
success of the Molokai singers is giv
en to David Kalaau, the talented dir
ector of the organization. He is the
teacher in the Halawa public school.
The banner which now goes to Mol
okai permanently, has been sent to
the Kalaupapa settlement for a short
period. A great amount of Interest
has always been taken by the inmates
fo the settlement In the choir contests.
Water Works Systems
Show Big Increases
According to reports made by the
waterworks superintendents of both
the Wailuku-Kahului and Makawao
systems, covering collections of water
sold for the past year, the results are
highly gratifying as compared with
collections of the previous year. In
the case of both systems the increase
in collections amounts to between 50
and 60 per cent. For the Wailuku
waterworks, the collections for the
year ending May 31. 1916, were $8020.
53, against $5182.91 for the correspond
ing period last year, or an Increase of
$2837.62. The Makawao system shows
an increase from $2308.98 for 1915, to
$3594.16 for the year ending May 31,
1916, or $1285.18.
In both systems a decided improve,
ment is reported in the physical con
dition of the property. The number
of water consumers remains about
constant. The supervisors have auth
orized extensions of the Makawao
system to Kokomo and to Kuau, low
er Pala.
REDWOOD TAKES
MATERIAL ADVANCE
With the arrival in Kahulul on Mon-'
day of the steam schooner Wilming
ton with a cargo of redwood lumber
for the Kahulul Railroad Company,
the price of redwood took another
Jump of $2.25 per 1000 feet. This is
the second material advance in this
kind of lumber within a few weeks but
according to all indications it will not
be the last. Nor'west, which was not
advanced at this time, is also expected
to go higher.
-tt
Patrons Favor Old
Site For High School
Unless the board of supervisors
make objection to the location, the
new Maui high school will be located
at Hamakuapoko. This was the con
sensus of opinion of some 40 or 50
patrons of the school who met last
Friday night at the Pala Community
House and went into the matter In
considerable detail. The suggestion
of changing the site to Paia or Spreck
elsville met with much opposition.
The new concrete building will prob
ably be erected on the same lot that
now holds the present structure.
Work was heeun this week of tear
ing down the old main building of the
Wailuku Hotel,, on Main St, prepara
tory to the construction of a hand
some new $10,(100 structure. In the
meantime the cottages in the grounds
and the Robinson nronertv formerly
occupied by W. S. Chillingworth, are
being used for hotel purposes. The
new work is in charge of Paul Lada.
GERMAN SUBMARINE'S
FEAT IS SENSATIONAL
Status Of Under Sea Craft Questioned By French
And England Fighting Severe On All
Fronts Teutons Hard Pressed
Mexican Situation Clearing
HONOLULU, July 14 New X-Ray machine installed at Queen's
Hospital. Is of most modern type.
Minister D. R. C. Brooks, of Berkeley, says prohibition party is
w rong.Making booze a political issue is a mistake. The pastor is here
to conduct union services. Declares proposed amendments are unjust.
, In formal statement made public yesterday, Governor Pinkham says
lities commission of Hilo shall not tear up center of street. Govern
or insists that traction and gas franchises protect paving of Hilo . This
he says, is why he held up matter in Washington. He issues statement
of his iosition and suggests double man system.
Retail merchants here agree to decorate for next carnival. Mor
al and financial support pledged. Display last time declared dis
graceful. Immense crowds ane expected to be in Honolulu during
next celebration. . .
LONDON, July 14 Lloyd-George says Teutons are reversed for
.ill time. British minister for war tells members of entente conference
that fight has finally turned in favor of Allies. Offensive has been
wrested from central powers. What counts most in great conflict is
men and materials and of thes.e Britain, France, and Russia now have
plenty.
NEW YORK, July 14 Atlantic resorts raided by sharks in large
numbers. Man-eaters range waters along coasts of New Jersey and
Long Island for pfey. 4 bathers lose lives . Motor boats patrol the
beaches, while tourists abandon resorts by thousands in horror.
WASHINGTON, July MBritain reports that dreadnaughts Kai
ser and Kron Prinz were sunk in battle off Jutland. British admiralty
has so advised embassy in Washington. Says it has positive proof.
LONDONJuly 14 Russians held at Stockhod, but strike hard at
Austrians . Vienna officially confirms fcsh losses when Slavs succeed
in piercing von Bothman's lines.
WASHINGTON, July 14 Latest report of submarine freighter is
that among other things in cargo, she brought diamonds to the United
States. Members of crew af(e I cing feted and made heroes of, here.
President flays disloyal citizens. Foreign born citizens who do
not keep faith arc ugly menace to country, he says.
BERLIN, July 13 Great Russian drive in region northwest of
Bukzacz has been clreckcd by Germans and Austro-Hungarian allies -under
General von Bothmar. In this district which commands the ap
proach to Lemberg, Teutons have takken offensive. Gen. von Both
mar led his army in encircling counter attacks so that the Russians,
in order to avoid being cut off in advanced positions were forced to
fall back. In past few hours Germans have taken 400 prisoners.
PARIS, July 13 Industrial military unrest in Spain which has
been increasing during the past few months, and is based largely on
war situations reached serious crisis. Dispatch from Madrid says cap
ital city and province is declared by government in state of siege, ow
ing to strike of railway employes. Drastic measures taken to compel
oieration of trains. Strike is effective on all branches of northern
railways. Laborers in various trades also threaten to walk out.
WASHINGTON, July 13 Cleveland man may take place of
Hughes, resigned as associate justice of supreme court.
BALTIMORE, July 13 Deutchland finishes unloading her cargo.
Members of crew given purse of $10,000 for valor by a New Yorker.
Today they donated the purse to the Red Cross.
MATTEWAN, N. J. July 13 Shark kills 2 bathers and terrifies
beaches of New Jersey. Hundreds of men armed with guns are on
boats hunting for man-eater.
NEW YORK, July 13 Infant deaths again leap up. 117 new cases
reported.
HONOLULU, July 13 B. F. Dillingham gives $20,000 for Pala
ma funds. One half is for general Settlement work and the other half
tor fresh air camp.
Phone famine exists here due to strike. Mutual company can
not fill orders for new phones. Shipment coming by express to relieve
situation.
Find of bones excites people on waterfront. Discovery made in
excavation at Pier 12. Remains assumed to be those of giants. Theo
ry offered that they belonged to Nuuanu, a giant of years ago .
WASHINGTON, July 13 New federal tax bill will hit big in
comes heavily. Outline of Kitchin shows democrats need huge reve
nue for government. Munitions industry to help pay expenses. Ad
ministration tariff board idea incorporated in measure.
HONOLULU, July 13 Republican platform framers
work for convention. Committees are appointed to compile
can confession of faith for territory. Tax revision will be an
ant issue.
Honolulu will attempt to take from the legislature power to make
municipal rates.
Merchants here begin to fear effects of coast strike. Trouble holds
up tons of Honolulu goods. Retail dealers stand to lose heavily. Steam
ship service with Los Angeles is proposed as solution to difficulty.
Allies claim neutral ships aided German submarine across Atlantic.
Charges are made here that Norwegian, Swedish or Dutch vessel con
voyed Deutchland on long voyage. Government does not credit this
story. Status of diver not yet settled. Information comes that the sub
marine Bremen will carry back milk for babies in Germany.
LONDON, July 12 Little harbor town of Seaham, a few miles
south of Sunderlands, on north English coast, was raukd early today
by German submarine which slipied through the British patrol. The
vessel fired about 3$ rounds of shrapnel. One woman killed and a
house damaged .
BRITISH HEADQUARTERS in FRANCE, July 11 Fighting
so heavy this afternoon on front from Ovilliers to la Boisiclle and to the
Trones woods, that neither side can fire at first line of trenches for
fear of hitting own men. Overhead, big shells are screaming.
LONDON, July 11 British steamer Sara, which struck mine, is
abandoned. Boats with crew reached land safely.
Washington has protested agains Ottoman outrages. Turks break
into French and British consulates at Symra despite American seals.
(Continued on Page Six.)
are at
L
