HOLDS FIRST PRIZE OF KENTUCKY PRE88 ASSOCIATION AS BEST EIGHT-PAGE WEEKLY IN KENTUCKY
Expedaat'ani
Narimg Hotheri
gitlitr trith. i
rick blosa ass :
smI Hvnbol
" ts reraSw ussf
Scott's
Emulsion
7
OiUrw
00.
Alwyi Skua
Inferior Substitute .
.wi inieniarn viam, aul faciam.
LOUISA, LAWRENCE COUNTY, KENTUCKY. JULY 14, 1916.
M. F. CON LEY, Publisher.
Volumo XXXl. Numbf 4.
. jf HIS .
Sandy
news.
OJIO
1
I
i
5 -
LOUISA VOIilAN DIES
!
AFTER LOSC .WSHS?
, i i - -
k ..
THE WIFE OF MR. J. H, PRESiun
rOEB TO HER SURE' I
REWARD.
Mr. Nancy Uaya iT-mon. wife " ' J
Henry ITeaton, p-a-fully pned away
at ther home en IxcK-av, thia city kuit
JYiday eveniim aUmt i'clork. Al
thouith Mr. l-reatona health n-d not
tra od for rm. ahe havln b-n
almoat an Invalid for the part four or
,i ,r- her death waa unexpected
at thia time. a he bad been cheerful j
and aeemed to feel a weu
day. Her trouble waa dropay and heart
diaeaa. An hour or leaa ne'"re
i-aih ah had underanne an operatlotM
f. drow. .ort , naa
.r.rr twm weeks' iately. After the oj- ,
raUon she Pke of bow comfortable j n, superintendent of the
She was aad bow well she fell and sve.lunUiirt(n and H(f yy dlviaiona,
instnitHons to th.e around to Te i hwwj,Jlu,rt ,n Huritlnitton.
refreehm-nts to friends In lb nouee.) A p,,,.,. ilSr ,he tignatu t Oen
ahown her IbuUKht of "others I" "1'!,,,) sinn L B. Allen an
last. It was not Ion before she lM" , nunrM ,h- jurisdiction of .Superinten
smolhennit and waa carried to ber 1J , dn( fc u fftftt M xt.n,iK over th
en the !Wp!ri xirB.nwine
came as nuietly as If ehe were ..ir. .
sleep. Not strtuTK'.e nor a ':h marti- l
d the List momenta of hr lit'. j
For two yr hr o edition t,.u r.-n
-ri..u. that, it u - .ii!-'i"d re
mark-Mo that she snt:niie. to be.
Yet. ebe a. ci.eerf-.il and tifia a liv-i
Interest in fr,iti.n(t.
The funeral t-k U e ,.u,i-.y .f:r
iwwn, J.Jlv i'h, at the resident... 11m
'drwis t f friends (Mid h'.al trst-ute w.th
their ; rwnee. their tears, and r.or.
Trie h';.. the '.larso ' t-rrh ' and the
yard were filled wiiti ,,rr..w.r if -.ei-b-bore.
Th Sert-iees1 wef r-rl red I'V
Mrs. ? rrtit'-ti pant-or. Iie- I.. 1 -l -Kldow-"'.
asltel b lie vs. II; H !
Irii im N. II. Voun. Mr. sf'-KMown-
ey s triMte in j " --"
Xir.il and t..urhin. Her ehnet: ir.it v ,
wus of a t) I and derr- tbat Jutinl .
the strons en.Ior.ement siven oj
pastor who had often m(n:;erel tii her
at the bedside. whl.-h she had
sel-cted f.tr the nteae ton were hewutl-
fully suns; by the choir.
The Interment on llno'liill fx place '
immediately afrer the condom.? or
the i lees at the residence. Auto
vibils carried a conaiderable numlr
ot friends to the cemetery. The pall
txarers were Irr. T. l. Bunwa. A. O.
Carter. A. it. Hughea. M. t. Bums
A. L Burtoo and M. F. Conley.
Mrs. Preaton waa born Msrch JT, W.
being 61 years old ax her denth. She
was married IWc 11. . Her fath.
er was John Hays, of Charley, one of
the County s wealthiest cltisena. Mr.
and Mrs. l'reet.in moved to Louisa
'about li. Three daughter mere
horn to them. F.IU. Iteulah and Tlixa
beth. The two older tm died In tneir
21st yewr. and FJixbh d:ei several
year ago at the age of twelveleaving
the pH rents childle. The cW.r -n
Were virtlma of tulrcu!.i. The p--rents
tie-lc. them6 cl-.mates .rre-r fa
Tor&Me than thia ,1 the h'-i of e'Te't
Ing a core, but it was all In .vain.
The ditee of the lii.nnl ..f the thrr
daughters were Fllxlwth. T.ifin.r
.S, li' F.V.s, NovemSer i. 1'. . aod
Iteiilah, May 0.
lr. Freston bad been a member of
the M. K. Churrh S..u:h tr m -r than
sixteen yenrs. H-r dev..t:i.n to th
church' was unusual, af'd a m-re de
Tout christian can notjbe f.md. She
was Interested in every plus of re
ligious w..rk. The subject ot the new
building to be erected h h.T chur h
waa one of intense Interest up to tli
hour of her death, liften she exires
ed a ho( that she might live to wor
ship in the new structure. Sn.- arid
h'-r th..r.nirhly christian h-isnrd were
among the largest n.ntntaior to the
building fund and ala- t.T the s i. rt
of the ministry. Mr. IT"!.m h I not
been arle to attend ehdri h srvl. rs f.
more than a year. The L-ist t me h
was out in town ,s during the t'iir st
mas holidays, when she Vmis La.-n out
In a wheel chair.
Mrs. ITeston was a d!V..t-. wife srd
loving moth-f-, gentle ard kind to all
Her goMl h'Mhand caretl ir her m.t
tenderly d.iring her long ilin--t. A
trained nurse was kept with her for a
year or more. Mr. I"reton was in f nil
sympathy with her work at all tim
To him there g.ies out the ne; !ro
found sympathy.
Among thoee who Were enlist here
by the death of Mrs. S. H. iTe-itnn were
the following relative:
Messrs. Lafe Hays, Clreen Hays. Jno.
" Hays and Major Hays, and Miss Kthel
nays, .ot t nariey, t.mihers and n;ece
of Mr. Preston; Mrs. Mary S. Ward,
of Pamtsville, and Mr. I.lizle Staple
ton, of River, sisters of Mr. Preston;
Messrs. Cyrus l"rest..n. of Thealka. Kd.
rreston. of Thelma. and F. P.. I"rest..n.
of lackey, half brother of Mr. Pres
ton: Mr. and Mrs. Sam S"etirn. of Riv
er. Mr. Dan Wheeler, id" l"aintsv!!!e, Mr.
Lafe Wnrd. of Williamson. V. Va.. and
Dr. and Mr. J. F. Hatten. of Buch-
ynnun. Olhers from Charley s'artcl in
aiitom.ititlea Sunday, but were delay
ed and did not rench here.
In honor of Master Charles Allen
v.iuui, or uwin, w. V a., aomo little
Kirls and boys were entertained at the
Kemmele home on lck-av., last Pri
day evening.' After a doliKhtful timet
sne.u on trio lawn the little folKa were
seated qn liu-ge rug and ttclMoiis ice
cream was. served. The iwrtv wns la-
ken for a milk to tho locks and Inter
Visited the Plotiiro show. The children I drilling on the farms of Wm. Suv.l ixtrty given by .MIss M.lli.t elliti in on
vero told ,t,'u, mil It a party, but It Ue and John Yale continue, Th'1 lust I'rl.lav evening to a number of her
was such a li.Hid Imitation of nm tbiit'll being brought In on ttu places ,yoiintt friends. Refislinienis of Ics
th Ufueii kuv.iis hud a nilulity pice t by tlio Blvr Blaine Oil Oouumny arojnnd cuke were nerxed Into In the ei'-
'" xi'liiv profiiHvra. jenliitl. .
! JORDAN TO MOVE TO J
I V LAWRENCE COUNTY.
nth. 'Times': !
en acquitted i f !
Iiarge or m'lrn'T i ni win-, jh. r
iporm - lia Jordan, revertiy. nu..-a at in
home of judge Thomas C. Bcatty Tucs- j
ariHTf,nr Bwl ft a n..te will-h
stated thai he intended to movo from
i nis mnn v mi 3."". ; -
ville. to Lawrence County, ky., within
(ha next few days and. requested thai hi
three children, James, 1; George ,
nd Fred. S bo plax-ed In hla custody.
The three boys are now in the 8-ioto
county Children's Home. ;
It la ti be remembered that Geo. ';
and J tun, two of the sons, testified
on the wttneM ffianq tnai-meir wint-r i
hot their mother with a- ahot gun.
CHANGES IN OFFICIALS
OF C, A O. RAILROAD.
A number of new official chanee
. .,,,,d in ihe Coexa-
. - . -
Ohio office- junon.-whlch w
..r i a i'-nnmirl,.n
n,,-t,r,1..t,.r, am! ltiir Sandv division.
Other otllnal changes were announced
, rmuhr u f.,ll,rw: '"':
I "The following appointments will be-
(com effective J')!y l'. 1SI:
'Mr. II- A. lwivin is app.!nt-d Train
Ma'r. . lUndoy I'mn.-t. Hea.lnunrt-
j era.
liaodtev. W.. Va. vice Mr. I. U .
: Flet, ti.T. Ira
f "fr. 1 H
is'etre.1.
fuals is appointi-.l As-
siKi.if l Trln Jii'o-r and Ib I F'.rf
mii'i Ki'Ciw, Ha'.dlev listrii,
li.-Hd'i'.irt.f, Cane Fork. V. a, vice
Sir 11 A. I-avin, ;.r."i-d.
"Mr. M .It. .Ittinleut Is ai:Kdntt As
s.ntant Tmln Master nd IP1 Fore
man of Kr cinrs. I'.ig handy t'lVisioti.
,11..
liiarters. 1-air.tsvlI.e. Ky. vice Mr.
I'.-ialo. transferred."
.
VAMCEBURG
CANNON FOR VANCEBUHG
IS OBTAINED BY FIELDS.
WsJihlnrton. July .
Reftreeenta-
tin WVJ. Fields to-day introduce! a
lull to authorize lte Sretary of War
to eetiJ to Vanceburg f the John T.
arker Poet, No. It. Kentucky G. A.
R.. one condemned cannon and a auit-
able outfit for cannon tialls to be placed
in the yard of the Uewia county court
house.
YOUNG MAN OF
FT. GAY ELECTROCUTED
TAYLOR RATCLIFF INSTANTLY
KILLED BY TOUCHING A
LIVE WIRE.
Tab- Rstcl.fr. - n of Wm. P-atrlifT.
..f Fort lay. was killed nar Akron.
b. on Tuelay of this gnrk. He
-nii."el by the Ohio Telephone Cotn
iwiny and was alone whe-i killed. If
is tl.onght be was electrocuted by tl:e
telej.hor.e wire coming in contact with
a high mission line cai-rytr.g a heavy
v.dtage. The accident hapirn-d while
Ratcbff was sirajped tj a (elephnne
x.!e nar the top. He had be-n deio!
for quite a while, evidently. a -n d'-cuv-rel.
Iwu-.iiff whs about Zi years old and
aa a reliable, highly resteviel young
Mti. The Ixely arnvwl Thursday am!
was bur.ed in the Iav.d Bartrain bur
ial uro'.iiids
BLOW ON EAR
RESTORED HEARING.
A. Roy-r, who claims his home a
ilttsi-iit-g.' can hear t-elay out of b;.
left u- f..r the first time in ei'n yetir
as a result of a blow on the side of th
enr from the fist of a fellow prisoner
in the city lasule last night Junrr a
f.rhl wh.ch crurred there during
which several of , the prisoner receiv
ed twidly di!w.d rel facea. When Royer
was arraigned the Judge annoiimed
he could hear after seven yeors defen
se and he be,Hight the Judge to let
him go home at once he cxHild bresik
the news to relativ-. The Judge, who
alaats re.lce in any one's g.Kl luck,
t'jld Itor to go lus way and sin no
more. Royer heard him the first time
and waa not long in shaking tile dust
of the city off bis feet. Anhland In
dependent. AGED WOMAN CREMATED.
Jackson, Ky July T. Mr. Thomas
Strong, agel eivhty-aix, was burnil
to death when her home, on Froxen
Creek, four mile from Jackson, caught
fire at two icbck thi morning. She
and her husband were there alone, and
Mrs. Strong had left the house after
the fire began, but returned during
the fire and was caught in the flames
MARRIAGE LICENSES.
Walter Hught. II. to lbvsi . iVn
nington, IS. of VatrvillV
Charley tillllam. 10. to F-tlle Kvans.
1. of Pdaine.
Stanley Adams. II, to Mattio pol.
erts, 14. of Yatoavlllo and !rad neigh
borhood. Allen Clay, Jl. to Sophia higau
NEW OIL WELLS.
KILLED IN AUTO
HrPinPVT MIT WFCT
HLuluLllI UUI flLdl
MISS JESSIE CRANK, OF THIS
COUNTY, SUDDENLY KILLED
IN CALIFORNIA.
i
fiH- JHutU, I'r&nk-. nitre 11. AatiK-hter
of C. C. t'ranke, of YatesvUle. was killed
In an automobile accident at Sao r ran- !
Cisco Tuesday. The body will b !
brought hyroe for burial. She went I
uire vo )- wf iu
was .employed aa a stenographer.
Miss Crank was a dauKhter of one of i was .thirty -thl years of. ae ana is
our ik1 ciuzens. Hhe is said by those ! surrii'ed by Mrs. Meyers and tin. his
who knew her. to have been a bright j father and the following; bnithersi U'il
rouns; lady As a atemnrrapher she Uam. of Covlngrton; Buford, of Vir
had "made good" in Kan Francisco and ginia; Frank, of 1Kan. W. A'a, and
waa filling; a desirable position, tier Walter, whoso present address la not
lonumcay death Is very sad and a great
i nntirfieMr uwain is very etui ana a are
, frieri(1, , relatlvell.
PAT WITHROW AT LOUISA.
l'at 'VVithrow, superintendent of the
Union Mis-ion at Charleston, W. Va..
camii to LAiuisa '.last Haturday after
n-.n and held a service at tbe court
Koiifce that evening, ftinday morning
'' aue.. at the same i.Ja.re. be urathe.l to
a. larse congr' -.nt.on. 1 he .-'iiurd:iy
night uudiiw was n.'t as Urge a the
h-rv lci geaervetL. but It Is always d.f-
! -h:u!t t get a Kod sixed gathering on
fSntur-Iay everung. It a a remark -
aide srrvlce. Intisely tnterest'.D-g and
v-ry ' 'Jropresslve. R rwnw i.f his
fnet.it. lie'. Mi Kldow ney. Mr. With-
r..wn!a!.-.i in li.aaii a trip he made to the National Convention ;he ,.l.r.-.
Wi-U:t,t;u-n to fcet Xti interview with havmx .been selected to deliver an
W.-n. J. Bryan and "later '. with Vice , dress lo that body.
Jreaideht Man halt, resultirif in tafc-, !
li k :the :.it!er to riarl,!"t-n t. hel, .in : DISTRICT WARDEN APPOINTED,
an :imi..njii hht atf-itiat tiie i.a'ij y M Fulkerwon. of Iuisa has beeii
ct.nditiors in ihe . liy. . reapv.intel distrirt lists and game war-
Sunday tn..rr.in the sermon as;d,.n ,hA a.trirt comprising Uw
on the power r wyer. personal ex -
, --r-.ij.ces wese ue'-d to prove his tetj
r..l n.l mwroPM uai ' pro(e-r
that
'th.ngs may
a. compllKhed Uirou'h
:pra-r. He is one of the mrejit ex-
! emplifl'rallone of an Intense christian
j harart.-r. Hi faith is so strong and
1 so evident as to produce an unusual
; impression upon hi hearer.
VVithrow waa a bar tender and boot
legger until converted. He is now do
li.g aa great work in the rescue line as
can be found anywhere. The secret of;
it all is bis great faith, hla earnestness,
his enthusiasm, his deep consecration,
his simple and unaffected manner, his
Intense oesire to save sou Is.
It is to be hoped we may be able to
get him to Louisa for a series of ser
vices later on. .
The two Methodist churches joined
In the worship on these occasions.
JAILED FOR KILLING AFTER
THREE MONTHS IN HIDING.
After evadinii arrest over three
months. Godfrey Bbuikenship, charge.1
with killinw HarTison McCoy, on Kiwi
Creek, Ilke-ro, has been captured and
is no In the cxmnty Jail at PikevMe.
ithout bail, acortling to news re
ceived here this morning.
Following the shooting, which oc
ciired Man h J", Btankenshiji fled to
tho mountains and de.pite the vigi
Unce of officers anJ several ;H,eses.
maiged to remain at large until Fri
day. The killing is said to have be-i
the result of an bid feud. Rlankenship.
it is said, will pled lf -defense a
McCoy, it is claimed, bd a gun and
meeting Blankenship endul.ie.1 in
some wls which Blanketiship coii
sirunl aa a threat.
: 1
AUTO OVERTURNED
' AND IS BURNED.
Ashland,. Ky, July 7. An automo
bile ocic-ipled by Herman Fran and
li. 11. Irapier. of Russell, and two
parties from Huntington. V,. Va, wh--names
could not 1 learned, overturn.-d
r.ear Ash'Jind last right and was de
stroyed i v fire. Irapier is in a local
hospital sirftVrtng fn-m serious Internal
injuries, which 'mar ;rove fatal. Th
other cii ants of the car eft-aped
w-tmjs ir.tune.
REFORM SCHOOL BOVS DROPPED.
Fort Thomas, Ky, July S.Captain
Helm is having trouble with tihe mem
ber of his o.mpany who wore taken
from the Keforsu School at Greenda'.e
nd enlisted rn the National Guard.
Captain Helm turned his mu!er-in
roll over to Captain Kaaton Gibson. I".
S. A, mustering officer, today and the
names of the men of the Reform School
were stricken off. The muster-in roll
was sent back to the commander of
Company I to be rewritten.
Captain Helm said this afternoon he
would take the matter to the War IV
partmont for final settlement. Lex
ington Herald.
CHICAGO LIVESTOCK.
CIUCAGt). July II. Hoi-:- Rfcer.'ts j wife and family were welo-me vtsit.-rs
St.OiMl: weak; bulk. ?1.S5 tJW lii;hK..Jni B. it. Neals Sunday. They ran
5.4oii mlxeil. i l'o I" e.: r.eavmhri!i:h iu their Ford. Hro. Neil now
f9 iiil'HD; roughs. $.i"'(ii-i, pigs, j has a F.ird. Maxwell and an Overland
$.1J. i9 ,Mt his command for a-trip t. Ashland
Cattle KiM-elpts 16.0 ". tes ly: calves jam Catlcttsbunr an.I Louisa- Wond- r
strong; native twf cattle. I..tii U.W:
wostern steers. J IOi S J sli"ker ni
ker and
feeilers, ST. ll'Sf S.4t: row
s ntid hoiici
Ts.!a
-j ,: calves. ?V.f llig.
She'p -Beceipls l.(i,n: stead v;lnni
w-enk to 15c lower: wethers. fh.T.'V
!h Si; ewe. IJ.Ii i fT.5i. lunH t'.ii-i
10.90.
'
A hal" affnlr of the week was the.
iCHAS. B. MEYERS
DIES IN DENVER.
I ' William foyers, of Ashland. !
;'-U nowrt O & O. conductor, reci"-I
:d 4 leU-grain Informing him that hia! .
dyt night at hi hum in Ier.ver, Colo: Tj
; mo news cam as a greai B irpnw anu f
a sfc.xk to Mr. Meers and to other I
!rfbtiive of the deccsuwd aa it was not)
knovn that he waa critically 111. llei
I had not been well for me time, but!
hia .vondition waa not deemed mimed-'
lately sertfrtie. . . I
. .Cbarlea Meyers Is wll and favor-j
amy Known in Aaniana, wnere ne was
born and reared. He haa been residing
for the past four years In Denver, where
-...
lone of the jrovernn.ent buildinps. He
knoWTj.
' Capt--Meyers -'.-ana ramny uvea in
Iu!s-. several years ao.
REV. C. H. WILLIAMSON. .
Rev. C. H. Williamson, l'h. D pas
tier of First iTesbytenan church in
, Memphis, Tenn will le the guest of
' his ' father-in-law, R. T. Burns 'next
. Mond-.y night ami r-il remain ,la'
jr two only.
l ilr. Burns would be pleaded to have
jail the minister!) of the town, call and
bis preacher son-in-law. and V
: nis mn iriei.ua io ran a: i ..ene
U.e.r old a-pia!ritano.
1 i"K-i.r niiiwniM.ii js e- rw.i.
lluntington. . w . a.4 to i - pre---nt .i
renee, Johnson and Martin. He says
tlM. w riil he enforl against vio-
. ,. Tho. not having license are
I warrij tBitj the must not hunt with
out first pr.jcjiring Ucense,
OLD SOLDIER PASSED AWAY.
Thomas Justice, who served In Co.
F. 14th Kentucky Infantry, during
the Civil War. died at his home . in
HunnewelL Tho remains were buried
at g-Mocess
The" deceased is survived by three
sons and three daughters.
FATAL ACCIDENT
TO A LITTLE GIRL
DAUGHTER OF MRS. GREER.
LOUISA. KILLED BY
A 6H0T.
OF
Othie FalrchlM. of Louisa, was ac
cidentally shot and family wounded at
Salyeraville Tuesday. She died the fol
lowing day and the body -was buried at
that place.
The above paragraph tells the sad
ending of the following story that was
put into type when the first-news reach
ed ns.
Mrs. Greer, of this city, was called
to Salyersville Tuesday by a telephone
message announcing that her daughter
who was visiting there had been ac
cidentally shot in the thigh. Mrs. Gre?r
left on the evening train for her daugh
ters bedside. -
The little gfrl. Othie Fairchibb, is
even years of a&r and was nyffir.g
re'uitlves near Satyersvlle. She is the
daughter of Mrs.' Greer by a former
mnrrii.s The Greers live on 3f i.1t-son-st,..'
next do-r to the Southern
Methodist r"roae-e. No p-ir:.-lim
of the shooting have been learned here-
FALSE REPORT CORRECTED.
Mr. F. F Cassidy writes frn Paints
viite sayirg that the report that he Is
married is untrue- The item came in
last- week beorii-g the Signature of a
fne- d of the parties and we had no
rexs .n to doubt the truth of it. liow
e'er. we are -eo' glad t- mae the
c-rrection.
Miss ie Thomps-.n. of Normal,
who was the oth-r panr to the affair,
dires to have the NEWS say that the
reo.rt was a mistnkev
GRAYSON ITEMS. .
The following Is from the Grayson
itenis in Ashland Indi"-i:d--i.t:
G. W. Atkinson- ai.d wife of Louisa
called on Bro. NiU and wife Sunda.
R. It. says he hope to interest h'.m in
the water, works proposition for our
t..wn.
Mr. Marcum. the pop"""" "nd O.
agent at Louisa and Snpt. of the Bible
school of the Christum cmircn wiin n.s
which one he wl.l take.
I Jji.t but- not
t least was llasK. ii uev3
student from Johnsoi
n r. Lie Cd'ege,
Giniberlin JIW:hls, Te
i lie Is a safe
' " '
.ami s..ne . ' " ' T.
t a unrulier of them were .M.ht-
.e.1- and want h.m to e rne am,,.,.
land often. .
I i
yr)l; k1;,,,,,,- Flowers ami mother, i
,-Mru Vl.ll(, hsve moved to Cb uhav -
vv y.,. Mrn. piow. rs Im been n
r illot . f iron ton ninny yNirs, nr.d
(,r m-ny friends inn sorry to kio-w
Ishe has left Irontoii. Irontnn Niw.
COUNTY SUNSAY
SCHOOL CONVENTIOH.
NTERESTING ANNUAL GATHER
ING HELD AT BLAINE
RECENTLY.
Aftr Week of tirctKiration on the
part of the feunday chod workers or.
the county Hatur'lay mrning, June
24th. dawned with a clouded sky and
many other indications of rain. Ire
vtously it had been decided that sev
eral automobiles should make the Jour
ney p the town of Blaine to the Law
rence County Sunday School Conven
tion, each one earning a full quota of
delegates. But of that number only
two went, One car was driven by Mr.
Gus Snyder and carried the following
persons! M. S. Burns, A. O. Carter, W.
J. Vaughan and Willie Vaughan; the
other party was composed of Mrs. Ceo.
Atkinson, Miss Althea Silvers, Mr.
Haskel Lee. Mr. C. B. Wellman and
another, whose name I do not know.
At 7 o'clock we started on that 2J
mile automobile trip, defeated yet un
daunted. As we climbed the hills and
sped along thro-gh the valleys the
conversation ranged everywhere from
religion to polities and r.ow and then
Jaa outburst of laughter announced that
one more ro-jgn ; iace naa oeen cross
ed, li'it to maiie the Journey more
pleasant ".ld Sol" poured through a
rent in the tlouds a tlofd of golden
sunshine, which brought an exclama
;;-.n of Joy from the travelers. After
ii.ut two and one half hours we began
to coast down the Hood hill and saw
nestling at iu foot the little town of
Iliaine and then ralizel that be had
rmrhed our destiny.
At l' o'clock the convention began
with a moderately good crngregation.
all of which were men. a very rare
occurrence. Immeliately after calling
the -.convention to order the cotinty
president, M. S. Burns, read the I3rd
psalrn up'.n which Rev. Gross of the
M. F- Church of Elaine prayed. The
music for the morning session was fur
nished by the choir from CordelL The
welcome address was delivered by G.
W. Kouns of Blaine. In a very appro
oriate manner he bade us welcome In
to the homes of the people of Blaine.
He said also "a convention always
brings an Inspiration to me." and IfMs
our hope that everyone who attended
the convention had the same exper
ience. To this welcome Hon. A. O.
Carter, of Louisa, responded in a man
ner that did himself honor and Justice.
It was hoped that Mr. Geo. A. Joplin.
the general secretary of the Kentucky
Sunday School Association, could be
present at this convention, but it
impossible and the field worker brought
the message In bis stead. One part of
which was that Lawrence county has
had only two Presidents in the I years
of its history and they were both law
yer and each named Burns. Another
was that only six have served in the
ca rarity of secretary and of this num
ber three have been Vaughana. Also
that Lawrence waa the first banner
county in the mountain and that to
day Lawrence has more schools than
any other county in Kastem Kentucky.
The next siafcer on the proirram was
Sir. C. R. Hoibr,ok. wh'-se subject was
eeing Visions." Mr. HoUirof.lt quot
ed many examples from the Bible and
nen ioiu us oj me .
Crosby.' though blind, "had seen" and
in a fitting manner read to the con
vention one of the beautttui nvmns
that Fanny Crosby had composed while
in that state of blindness. The con
vention was then ad;ourned until the
afternoon.
After a dinrr -h.it would satisfy a
king, the convention again c-onvenea.
Afer the devotional service the rHKirti
f the county .Tetary was reed ana
iw-epted. The j-re:dent appointed the
foil, -wi'-g comnxiitees on nominations:
W. J. Vaughan. G. W. Kouns an'l S. It.
Burton, on resol-iitoes: A. . wy
h..rn. C, F. Oi-i-m ai.d iliew. riri
Waiter. Rev. H. C. Bitmr of Wet.b-
-lle. Rer. Gross and V,. ' J. : augnan
spoke along lines of Snnday school
w-wrf and the convention was adjourn
ed for su;th t.
The musie for ".he evening service
-as famished by 'he bjcal choir. .
J. Vaughan then spoke cn "The 'W-I
dar school and the kingdom n.ov-
mer.t" in which be said that "the Puf-j
poe of the S'Inday ch.l is to make!
the P.ible a better known book, a bet
ter loved book, and 'a better obeyed
In .ok-""
After a refreshing sleep In tho gen
ee..u h.anes of Blaine we began tho
last session or the convention. 1 r.e liny raw. in nt-r you'n n- noi-i.u ic
w clear, the sin lieamed f.th with 'ceived a splendid education at one of
all its radiance, and In general the I the best college for women in the
weather was idea land a a result theJwesU This was supplemented by a
audience that in first session waa com- i more extensive and varied course of
po. d only of men was fairly well di-- reading and study, so that she became
vvded. if anything; a maj.nty of thein her riper year one of the bt ed
wv.men. at leiost l.'O present. fucaled and cultured women in this
Tho tirst thing on the program was 'state. She iived and brrxthed aa at
the Sunday s-h.l leso.i taught by J mosphere of culture and refinement
one of the lest Sund.iv sch.ed teach-(and was a social favorite over where,
ers in the county, C. It. Holl.rook. The' lowing year brought graiidchillren
nominating .mniittee relirted as f.d- I to her knee and salver to her once d irk
lows: For ITwident. M. S. Bums: j tresses, but t'me left no chill In her
Vice ITtsident. A. O. Carter; Svcre- heart nor did it dim the sparkle in her
o" ... At.,nmrn. I
tarv. W. H. aiignan: awi. mn?.
- - " " '" . "',.. -
loilK - ers were nominaicvi
Mss Jennie uromiej. j. ji. .... -
.w... v- m L . ,..,. Mm
,V' r xtki,w, r. C. Burton. M. O.I her l-l".lr with our citixen. and the
. . AtK t , . Vinson. The few h-rS now whom she knew felt a
ro-Vdi.tb.,!, re,..r,ed . V.nS of deop s..m.w and regret who
. ... ..,i. i,,s one .f w hlch was the news of her passing reached them.
, ltllll , M,.nd our ap-!
' . ,hkl( ... ,,. minors of ,
J K,,dV News and th. HernM.
' f ,hl. Iimin kindness and
' extended by each of th.-m to
iwrvnce County Sun-
day'. : Rchml Association., They have
published without charge official an
nouncements and other matters of !n
tfcreot t the Sunday schr,ol workers
h1ch has been of vreat aj-xistance to
the cause and explains partly why '
lAwrence county had more than W0
people In riunday school on May T,
151."
The'' remainder of the day passed
very rapidly, the Held worker gave a
brief history of the rrowth and de
velopment of the Sunday school work.
After this an offering- was tahen in
which the people responded very gen-
erouaiy
The convention stood and was dis
missed and so passed into history the
26th annual convention of the Law
rence County Sunday School Associa
tion. , W.H.V.
DROWNED IN TENNESSEE.
The funeral services of Hubert Ba
rney were held at Carter Tuesday ev
ening. The body, the wife and two
brothers arrived on the noon train
and went immediately to the burying
ground at Carter.
Members of the Masonic lodge here
attended! the funeral and assisted In
the Masonic rites.
Mr. Ramey waa In the portrait bus
iness a Knoxville, Tenn. His busi
ness had called him out of town and
when he came to cross the river h
found the boat on the opposite side.
Discarding his clothing, he started to
swim to the other shore for the boat,
but, when in mid-stream, he appeared
to be seized with a cramp which caus
ed hi drowning-. -:
He leaves a large number of rela
tives here. His father and mother Uvo
on Euffalo, about two miles from Car-
Iter. The wife, who Is
I girl, is young and not
a Tennesaea
very strong.
having recently undergone an opera
tion for appendicitis. Grayson Jour-
naL ' ''.'':
B. . 0. NOT AFTER THE E. K.
An official of the E. K,' Railway in
position to know, stated that there is
no truth In the rumor which is current
that the B. & O. has purchased tho
E. K. The same official also stated
that so far as the E. K officials have'
knowledge the B. O. has no designs
on the Riverton-Grayson Railway.
THROWN OFF FREIGHT TRAIN .
Pearl Kiskaden. of Augusta, is In a
railroad hospital at Dayton, Ky, suffering-
from injuries sustained when, he
waa thrown from the top of a freight
train, both legs being broken and his
head badly injured. The accident hap
pened to tho west of Augusta. -
MRS. EOUSIE HOPKINS
DIES AT CATLETTSBUEC.
WOMAN WELL KNOWN IN BIG
SANDY VALLEY STRICKEN
BY APOPLEXY.
Mrs. Mouafe Martin Hopkins, widow
of Cairt. John C, Hopkins, and one of
the best known and best beloved wo
men in Catiettcburg, died at ber home
at the residence of her son-in-law. JSd.
S. Hughes, on Saturday last, following
. . r . .. 1 . -; . ho.t luifln
atvetllliDg Ashland Chautauqua all
;,--., and had fust returned to her
home about a. m, and waa stricken
by the blow which caused her death a
few hours later. Interment followed
on Mcnday afternoon in the Asnland
ceme tery and was very largely attend
ed. The funeral waa held from the
real deoce and was conducted by Vr. t
C ndit, of Ashland, assisted by tho
slot 'of the Catltttsburs churches.
turvlved hy ne. jn. John. of
Ashland, and three daughters. Mrs. J.
O. Marbewson. of Ashland. Mrs. Geo.
l'irrunick. of Huntirxton. and Mrs. Ed
S. H-.Kh.-s f Catiettsiiurg-
r , liri. Hopkins was boju. in Prestorts-
'bur, Ky, being th dauehter of JIT.
and Mr. John J?.' M-irtin. Her father
was prominent in Congress f.,r m.rf,
than one term and was a leader of the
Ker.taeky LecisUture at a time when
there, were mental giants in that body.
Her mHher. a woman of fine intelli
gence and culture, was a sister of tho
iate Greenville Lackey, who was one
of iBuLsa's most honored old time mer-
chants. Mrs. Hopkins" ancestrakjesj-
aoy was mina ana orain. umtni
from some of the best 'stock of old
Virginia and Kentucky, men aid wo
men upon whoso escutcheon no bar
sinister ever appeared, and she. in her
Hfe. bved up to the best ideals of her
cje.
. hrr ,rtho aa vs. hit If a century
": . . .. r -.iv vis-
'-.-
;iie - .i ,......-- ... -
III. - .'..rio of niic.l and nvmner mid
At the tnnrri.ise of lr. and Mrs.
Wrote u who hl to 'celebrate their
g.dd.-n weddln net year. .Nirs. Hop.
kins, then Miss Moiisie Martin, '
Mrs. Wroten's brid.snmld, ml. .ml in
health and cluirmin In manner.
1 "
