SwSwBjBSpBBiiwPSiw
r '''WW" ""NMrif 'Mwumm
'FINANCIAL EDITION
NIGHT
EXTRA
NIGHT
&.,
VOL. n.-NO. 2 GO
PHILADELPHIA, IPHIDAY, JULY 14, 1016.
fQ&fJf d&r mkl itZtafe. jjmw Krv 'Nik.
Coruiunx, 1010, at tna Polio Lsm CourAm.
PltlCE OJBJ CENT
3
I- :
. r
BRITISH CONTINUE ADVANCE;
ffl SECOND
FOUR
Capture Longueval, Bazentin-le-Grand,
Bazentin-le-Petit, Ovillers and
Trones Wood Score Biggest
Gain of Drive
Haig's Troops Break Through on Front Four Miles Long.
Press Closer to Bapaume, Main Objective Teu
tons Battle Furiously to Halt Enemy's
Forward Movement
t J LONDON, July 14.
Despite the desperate efforts of the Germans to halt their advance, the
forces of General Ilaig arc continuing their forward movement along the
Sommc-Ancre front with the strength of a battering ram, this afternoon. Un
official dispatches from the front at 0 p. m. today stated that British troops have
captured the village of Basentin-lc-Petlt, northeast of Longueval.
Basentin-lc-Potit lies a mile north of Basentln-lc-Grand, the capture of which
was unofficially reported this morning, and less than a mile from the Martin
puch Height, toward which the British aro advancing. It marks the point of the
greatest British advance toward Bapaume.
The British repulsed several counter-attacks in heavy fighting this forenoon.
Virtually all the village of Ovillers, on the British right, is now in British
hands, and furious fighting i3 going on in the outskirts.
Many prisoners have been taken, including a German regimental commander.
Following immediately upon the declaration of Lloyd-George and Prime
Minister Asquith that the tide of the Great War has now definitely turned in
favor of tho Allies, the British troop3 have struck a terrific blow at the second
line of German defenses along the Sommc-Ancre front and scored tho greatest
advance since tho beginning of the Allied offensive 13 days ago.
The British attack began at dawn today and in a few hours the London
War Office announced the capture of German positions along a front four miles
long and ono mile deep. Despite the elaborate preparations of tho Germans
and the order issued to tho Teuton troops not to surrender their positions at
any cost, tho legions of Sir Douglas Haig swept clear across the enemy's de
fenses, which had previously been blasted by a terrific bombardment lasting 21
hours.
Longueval, Bazentin-le-Grand, Trones Wood, Bnzentin-le-Pctit and Ovillers
arc now entirely in British hands, bringing them closer to Martinpuch Heights
and the plateau dominating the road leading to Bapaume, the central point of
tho Peionne-Bapaumc-Cambiai Railway .the objective of the Anglo-French drive.
Althougn the official statement issued by the French War Office this after
noon makes no mention of infantry attacks on tho French side of tho Sommo
front, unofficial dispatches from Paris received in London say that tho British
thrust has enabled General Foch to extend his lines between Hardecourt and
Glllmont, thus threatening the village of Maurepas, ono of tho few positions
defending Peronno still in tho hands of tho Germans.
Tho British fores novo now broken tho .
second lino defenses of the Germans over a
front of four miles.
Ofllclo.1 announcement of this enormous
Bain was mado by tho War Ofilco In Its
official report Issued at noon.
For 24 hours tho German position1? had
been bombarded with tho utmost violence
by British guns of all calibres beforo tho
infantry attacks woro launched. Then tho
English legions rolled forward In Irresis
tible waves, oerrunnlng the blasted
trenches, which had been reduced by shells
to a series of craters.
Between tho Ancro and Sommo Risers,
tho British prcssuro has been concentrated
along the Albeit-Bapaumo highway and tho
Bray-Bapa.umo road, and It was In this
region that tho most powerful assaults
were delivered.
The German troop3 In front of Bapaume,
tho Immedlato objective of tho British
drle, havo fought stubbornly to hold their
lines, being under orders to light to the
death, but they hae been unable to with
stand the sledge-hammer thrusts of Gen
eral Haig's men.
Special dispatches from press headquar
ters at the front announced tho capture of
Longueval, Bazentln-le-Grund and tho clear
ing of the Trones Wood, an advance of one
mile, In the early hours of the fighting.
The blow was struck at the very sector of
the battlo front where, the Germans had
assembled their heaviest bodies of rein
forcements. Tho early bulletins, though
ery meager, Indicated that one of the
greatest battles of the Allied offensho Is
Continued on 1'uie Set en. Column Four
Philadelphia Driver Hurt in Wilmington
WILMINGTON', Del., July li. A motor
truck loaded with bread from tho Kolb
Baking Company, whllo being driven to this
city from Philadelphia today, skidded on
a wet roadway at Market and 22d streets,
here, and crashed Into a telegraph polo.
Howard Davis, 329 Budd street, Philadel
phia, the drher, sustained a cut on his
head which was dressed at the Delaware
Hospital.
House Passes Power Dam Sites Bill
....yASHINQTON, July H. The Adamson
bill, providing for tho leasing of power dam
lltes on natlgable rivers, was passed by tho
House today by a 'vote of EI to 17,
THE WEATHER
FORECAST
For Philadelphia and vicinity
Partly cloudy tonight and Saturday,
with moderate temperatures, but high
humidity; moderate winds, becoming
northeast.
DELAWAHK HIVEIt TIDE CIUXdES.
CHESTNUT STtfEET.
Illsb water.. 12 20 a in Hlsh water. .12-50 p m.
water otiiu ti.uur wuivr. . o.ui p.m.
TKMl'EltATUUE AT EACH 1IOUU.
TT7
io i n l 12 F 1 12 i"
US I 83 I S4 T S3 t 831
5a
XOST AND FOUND
SAO LoJt. Muclc silk bas. ullver tap. contala-
Ins money and department atore col
UIU.
evening on jteaaina rouu irgm aim
or B)vatl to 924 itrt. reward.
fremar cacirai
Other Lost and found Ail on I'uie 11
"The Mucker," a Thrilling Story of
GERMAN LINE;
MORE VILLAGES
W- VARE MAKES
FIERY ATTACK ON
SENATOR PENROS:
Absenteeism Responsible for
Slighting of Philadelphia
Navy Yard
ITS INTERESTS SACRIFICED
Stato Senator Edwin It. Vare Issued a
statement today criticising Senator Penroso
for his absence from a meeting of the Sen
ate Committee on Naval Affairs several
days ago, when Philadelphia was eliminated
from the list of cities whoso navy yards
will turn out superdrcadnoughts and mod
ern battle cruisers.
The statement was a direct attack upon
Penrose and caused wide comment in polit
ical circles. It followed tho declaration of
Senator Polndcxter, of Washington, that
this city's Interests were sacrificed because
It was not represented at the meeting.
Senator Vare said:
I regret very much that Senator
Penroso was absent and not In Wash
ington when tho League Island Navy
Yard bill was beforo tho Senate Com
mittee on Naval Affairs. If he had been
looking after the Interest of the Phila
delphia Navy Yard n3 was done In tho
lower House, It seems to me thut the
question of th,o extension of the present
shlpways and of tho building of battle
ships there in tho future would hae
been settled to the advantage of Phila
delphia. Employes have demonstrated
the efficiency of the League LiUnd
Yard only recently by tho building and
launching of the transport Henderson
at a half million dollars lens than the
bids of any private proposals and in
several months less time.
It is also unfortunate that Senator
Penrose was absent at a critical time
when tho President's war policy was
being voted upon In the Senate; yet he
found time to be In Philadelphia to butt
In on tho transit matter. It seems to
me there Is still u chance, however, for
him to correct his mistake by getting
on the Job In Washington and teeing to
it that the navy yard Item Is Included
in the bill as it passed tho lower House.
James E. Lennon, president of Select
Continued on Pate Tno, Column 6ix
WILSONS GOING YACHTING
Leave Washington Today for Week-end
Trip in Chesapeake
WASHINGTON, July 14 President and
Mrs. Wilson today arranged to leave Wash.
Ington late this afternoon for a week-end
trip on the presidential yacht Mayflower
They will cruise around Chesapeake Bay,
returning here lato Sunday evening or early
Monday morning.
i
Judge Patterson Buys Land
Judge John M. Patterson, of Common
Pleas Court No. 1, has purchased a tract of
land In Langhorne Manor, facing the elec
tric railway, from Arthur P Townsend, a
real estate broker. The land Is part of the
estate of the late Daniel B. Cobb.
CLARKE TO SUCCEED HUGHES
HHPB
WBSsm ' . mmSSSm
IBB HUKtfSKBIt
Tho White House sent the name of Judge J. II. Clarke, of Cleveland,
to the Senate this afternoon for confirmiwion as successor to ex-Justice
Hughes on the Supremo Bench.
SHARK-INFESTED
STREAM GIVES UP
BOY'S TORN BODY
Lester StillwelPs Remains
Recovered From Mata-
wan Creek
SHARKS IN DELAWARE BAY
Tho body of Lester Stillwell, bitten
to death by a huge shark in Matawan
Creek, was recovered today.
Dispatches stato that five of the sea
monsters havo been penned up in the
creek at Matawan, and patrols are
awaiting low tide t. land them.
Thomas Richard-?, an assistant stew
ard of tho Hotel Jieau Rivage, swim
ming in Sheepsh .t Bay, 100 feet from
his hotel veranda, was chased by u
shark into a passing boat. His loft leg
was cut and scratched by the saw teeth
of tho fish.
The presence of sharks in a new place
was disclosed today. Many of them aro
off the Delaware Breakwater and at the
foot of the bay. Ono was seen yester
day that was not les3 than 10 feet long,
according to J. L. Richardson, of Lewes,
Del., an apprentice pilot.,
At Sea Gate, on the western end of
Coney Island, in that same vicinity,
bathers watched a shark chase Miss
Continued on rare Tho, Column One
MOTHER GIVES HER LIFE
TO GRT ICE FOR BABIES
Poor Woman Crushed to Death
in Machine Reaching for Hand
ful of Small Pieces
A handful of Ice with which she sought to
allay the Intense sufferings of her little ones
brought death today to Mrs. Dorsey
Zaslowsky.
Next to her home In tho plant of the
Globe Ico Cream Company, 413 SoUth Perth
street, a huge machine pounds Ice into
small bits. Women of the neighborhood
gather It and bring It home. Only rare
chance has sated some of them from death.
They must thrust their hand In a box when
the crusher rises and pull It out qulckjy
beforo it falls.
The Zaslowsky children complained of the
heat. They were crying. The mother
went next door just as the hammer in the
plant was rising. She thrust her hand
undir it, but could not reach same pieces
of lea in a far corner, Her head went
directly under the hammer. A part of the
machine caught her hair and dragged her
head under the hammer. -,
A moment later a piercing scream startled
the workmen. Two boys, Abe Greeihleld
and Isadore Lavin, hastened to the machine
and shut off the power. They lifted the
dying woman to the ground and tried to
stop the How of blood Her lips mumbled
faintly. Her hands btlll clutched tho Ice
which she had sought for the little ones.
It was stained with her life's blood
Quickly the ambulance was summoned. It
made a record run to tho Pennsylvania.
Jloapltal
There was no need for the doctors when
the mother reached there.
Hyman Fish, proprietor of the Ice cream
plant, said he had frequently warned the
women of the neighborhood against taking
Ice from the machine.
But thoy were desperate. Like the Za&.
lowsky family. fw had money to spare for
Ice. It was needed for the absolute necessi
ties of life.
a "Low-Brow's" Life, By Edgar Rice Burroughs, Begins in Tomorrow's
JUDGE J. II. CLARKE
SED TO SUCCEED
HUGHES ON BENCH
Cleveland Jurist Selected by
Wilson for the Supreme
Court
SENT. TO THE SENATE
WASHINGTON. July 1 1. Announcement
was made nt tho Wlilto Houso this afternoon
that the President had decided to name
Judge J. II. Clarke, federal Judgo of Cl'oe
land, o , ro ruccecd Charles Evans Hughes
as nn asfioclato Justice of tho United States
Supremo Court.
.Tudgo Chuko's nomination was sent to
tho .Senate this afternoon.
John Hcssln Clarke, the present United
States District Judge at Cleveland, was born
at Lisbon, O, September 18, 1857; was
graduated from Western Reserve University
In 1877 nnd admitted to tho Ohio Bar in
1878. Up to tho tlmo of his appointment
as District Judgo in 1011 ho practiced law
In all tho courts of Ohio.
In politics ho has always been a Demo
crat, hating tun against Mark Hanna for
tho United States Sonate In 1903.
When Judge Clarke was nppolnted DIs
tilct Judgo by President Wilson, tho Senate
approed tho nomination after an lnestlga
tlon of charges that ho was a railroad
attorney and friendly to the railroad in
terests. Tho lin estimation developed he
had btrongly advocated tho passage of the
two-cent fa.e ait in Ohio
Ho is owner of tho Youngstown Vindicator
and president of the Shott Ballot League
In Ohio. Ho Is a bachelor.
FRANCIS LINGO OUT
OF JAIL ON PARDON
Negror Once Sentenced to Be
Hanged, Freed After Nearly
Completing 20-Year Sen
tence )
Francis Lingo, the South Jersey negro,
onco condemned to be hanged Tor the
murder of a young oman, arrested again
and freed on tho charge of murdering an
other woman, and In 1807 sentenced to serve
30 years for scheming to abduct a young
Philadelphia nurse, was released today
from tho Trenton State Prison by order o
the New Jersey Board of Pardons.
Lingo completed his term two years ago,
halng won a deduction of two years for
good behaWor The Board of Pardoi.s today
remitted the fine of J3000 which was im
posed upon him when he was sentenced It
was this line, which ho was unable to pay
which kept the negro In Jail two years after
his term had been completed.
The releate of Lingo, whose trial in Cam
den In 1897 created a sensation was de
nounced today by Chief of Police William
LInderman, of Merchantvllle, as a "shaino
and disgrace to the community," For years
prominent residents In Merchants llle and
other parts of South Jersey have been peti
tioning Jersey Governors and the Board of
Pardons not to show clemenoy to Lingo.
When Prosecutor William Kraft, of Cam
den County, heard of Lingo's release, he
said;
"Lingo should never have been released
He Is a menace to South Jersey and any
other place where he may make his home in
tho future. I alwas was against granting
him a release."
ATTEMPT TO ABDUCT NURSE.
The arrest of Lingo, who Is now 69 years
old, came In the latter part of 1897, after
he had atempttd to abduct Catherine V.
Berry, a young nurs attached, to the How
aitl Hospital, of this city. At that time
Lingo was employed as a farmhand near
Merchantvllle. Prior to that he bid been
arrested several times for assault and other
charges.
QUICK NEWS
NEW JERSEY PRIVATE DIES AT BORDER
DOUGLAS, Ailz., July 14. Prlvntc John Whelnn, Dth New Jer
sey Infantry, tiled nt Cnlumet Hospital here today. Whelaii was a
member of Company K, leci tilted nt Monclalr, N, J This Is the first
death and first serious Illness since the New Jersey brigade left Sen
Ght. Whlan' death was caused by pneumonia conti acted on the tialn
while en route to Arizona.
EMPIRE CITY RACING RESULTS
' I'lrst racej 2-year-olda, C 12 furlongs Phllippl C, 103. McCahcy,
7 to 1, 0 to 5 nnd out, won; Bally. 100, Shilling, 10 to 5, 0 to 20 ami
out, second; Arnold, 111, Butwell, S to 0 ami out thhd. Time, 1.00 1-0.
J. It. It SCOTT DROPS ONE NOMINATION FOR CONGRESS
John It. K. Scott, of Philadelphia, Republican cnadldnto for Congrcssmun-at-Largo
and who also wns nominated for Congress on tho regular Progressive ticket
In tho 29th congressional ticket, when ho received ono vote, today withdrew as a
candldato on tho latter ticket.
FIRST HUGHES SPEECH ON TRIP AT DETROIT, AUGUST 7
NEW YOniC, July 14 hopubllcan Candldato Charlc3 C. Hughes will inako his
first speech on Ills transcontinental trip, planned for next month, at Detroit on
August 7, It wac decided definitely today. Although Hub1ic3 will make Hpccches In
several of tho larger cities, only two besides tho Detroit address have boon dellnltcly
arranged. These aro for Chicago nnd St. Paul. Tho dates are yet to be sot.
N. J. COMMISSION APPROVES PUBLIC SERVICE STOCK ISSUE
TUnNTOX, Julv H Tho State fublle Utility Commission today approved tho
application of tho Public Son Ico ISIcctrle Company for an Issue of Its capital stock
to tho amount of $3,000,000 for plant extensions, the commission reserving for future
consideration tho matter of charging "capital account" requirements for sinking
funds, approval of which is withheld.
MANY DIE IN BURNING OF GREEK ROYAL CHATEAU
ATHENS, July 1 1 Tho rojal chateau, situated upon the country estalo of
King Constantino, today was destro ed by forest fires, as well as tho Crown Prince's
rosldenco, tho mausoleum of King Gcoigo and neat by military bai racks. A num
ber of persons, Including nrmy officers, were burned to deatli. Tho royal fumlly
was in tho chateau at tho tlmo, but escaped r.nd came to Athens by motorcar.
1G0 NEW PARALYSIS CASES IN NEW YORK; 31 DIE
NEW YOniC, July 1 1 Ono hundred and sixty new cuses and 31 deaths from
Infantile paralysis In Greater New York were reported today to the Health Depart
ment. Tho report covers tho 2-1-hour period fiom 0 a. m. Thursday until 9 a. m.
today. Tho blgge3t iucrcasu was In Brooklyn.
MILITARY DEPORT 20,000 FRENCH INTO GERMANY
AMSTERDAM, July II. Twenty thousand Inhabitants of Lillo, Doubalx and
Turcoing buvo been deported Into Germany by the Gorman military authorities
owing to tho impossibility of feeding populous districts on account of tho blockade
POPE MAY ISSUE ANOTHER APPEAL FOR PEACE
ROME, July 2-1. 1'opo Uenedlct, it is reported in church circles here, is pre
paring to Issue a hcc-ond appeal for peace on the occasion of tho second anniversary
of tho beginning of the war, now only two weeks away.
PROHIBITION CALLED IMPRACTICAL IN SCOTLAND
GLASGOW, July 14. Prohibition In Scotland Is Impractical in the "opinion of
the Liquor Control Board. Tho Board stated this In substance to a deputation
lopresentlng many thousands of women, who signed a petition urging tho adoption
of prohibition during tho war.
PREDICTS PANAMA REVOLT IF U. S. DOESN'T ACT
HAVANA, July 14. Revolution Is absolutely certain In Panama unless President
Wilson annuls the recont elections there, according to Attorney Nlcanor A. Obarrlo,
who sais ho Is on his way to Washington to appeal to President Wilson In behalf
of the Panamanian Conservative Party. Obairlo declares the recent elections were
a farce stascd at thp bidding of President Porras to assure his re-election. The
presidential election will bo held next Sunday.
TURKS UNABLE TO OUST BRITISH EXPEDITION
LONDON, July 14. The British expedition In Mesopotamia Is still at Sannayyat,
about IB miles below Kut-el-Amara on the Tigris, according to an official statement.
Tho statement says the British forces havo been subjected to an Ineffectual artillery
attack.
425 MORE OFFICERS LOST BY THE BRITISH
LONDON. July 14 Tho heavy prlco that tho Allies are paying for their success
on the western front is shown In the British casualty lists Issued In 'London last
night. These lists give tho names of 425 officers, 99 of whom wero killed.
PRICE OF MEAT JUMPS 500 PER CENT. IN AUSTRIA
WASHINGTON, July 14. War's Increase of food prices In Europe, as shown
by the Bmeau of Labor Statistics, has touched neutrals almost as heavily as it has
the belligerents. Tho Teutonic countries have felt the pinch more than have tha
Allies. The bureau's statistics give the biggest food price advances In Austria, where
meat3 are more than 500 per cent, higher than beforo the outbreak of hostilities. Beef
that In Tebruary, 1914, sold for 6.30 cents a pound now brings 3S.7 cents. Meat prices
In Berlin show Increases ranging from 45 to 160 per cent.
CARDENAS, FORMER NICARAGUAN PRESIDENT, DEAD
SAN JUAN DEL SUR. Nlcaiagua, July 14. Dr. Adam Cardenas, head of the
Conservative party and President of, Nicaragua from 1S82 to 1886, died here yos
terday. Doctor Cardenas played a prominent part in the stoimy politics of Nica
ragua for the last 40 years. In 1909 he organized a revolutionary expedition
against President Zelaya, from Costa Rica. He was defeated and fled from the
country, but returned after the fall of the so-called "dictator of Central America."
55,000 MUNITION WORKERS STRIKE IN BERLIN
AMSTERDAM, July 14. The Socialist newspaper, Tifbune, asserts that 55,000
workmen employed In munitions factories and electrical works In Berlin and In an
aerodrome "at Johannlsthal have gone on btriko as a protest against tho prison
sentence Imposed on Dr. Karl Llebknecht, tho Socialist leader,
r" ' ' ' - - i H i i i i
CANDIDATES FOR DEMOCRATIC ELECTORS ANNOUNCED
Candidates foi Democratic presidential electors from the congressional dlsr
trlcts In this city, to be recommonded to President Wilson byie Philadelphia
city committeemen, have been announced as follows; 1st. Jo L- Galen, 1914
Christian street; 2d, William Hancock, 7th and Dauphin streets; .John 12 Hagen,
2529 North 6th street; 4th, Henry C, Kline, 3321 North 22d Btreffth( Edward R.
Clinton, 2553 East Indiana avenue; 6th, ex-Judge Theodore F. 5fcnkns, 8933 Wal
nut street.
i " ' " i .I i ii ,
WAR COS S HUNGARY $120,000,000 A MONTH
AMSTERDAM, July 14. In a speech in the Lowsr House of the Hungarian
Parliament on war profit taxes, Johann Teleszkyy Hungarian Minister of Flnanoje,
said that the 23 months df war had cost Hungary an average of from $90,000,000
to $95,000,000 monthly. The amount now range from $112,000,000 to J130.0-U0.000
monthly. The war, he said, had been financed principally by short-time loans,
but gx eater tax revenue was necessary to mtet interest paymMts.
SMITH GUARDS
CITY, HE TELLS
BLAMENBURG
"P. R. T. Will Not Get
the Best of Negotiations"
CALLS ON EX-MAYOR
IN MOUNTAIN HOME
Goes Out of Way to Meet
City's Former
Executive
POLITICS NOT DISCUSSED
What Smith and Blunkcnburg
Talked About in the Poconos
SAID THE MAYOR:
"I am looking after tho interests
of Philadelphia."
"There may bo a surprise for some
people when tho transit negotiations
are completed."
"My ambition is to see some of tho
projects which have been started
under me completed before my term
expires."
SAID THE FORMER MAYOR:
"I mado arrangements to purchase
land alonp the Parkway nnd could
have bought it for much less than
you must pay for it."
"This time last year I was nnawcr
ing two dozen long-di3tanco tele
phone calls a. day and signing
bunches of contracts."
"It looks like harmony for a time,
but it will be only for n short time,
if there is harmony nt nil."
Du a Staff Corretpandtnt
POCONO P'NES, Pa., July 14. Mayor
Thomas D Smith, at his first conference
with former Mayor Rudolph Blankcnburg,
last night, npsurcd his predecessor that he
"Is looking after the Interests of Philadel
phia" In his negotiations with the Phila
delphia Rapid Transit Company, and that
tho P. R. T. will not get tho best of the
negotiations that aro pending between tha
city nnd the company for tho operation of
the system of elevated and subway lines
that aro being constructed..
The Mayor surprlssd, Mr. Blankenbur
with what ho called a "social call" whlU
ho wus en route to Binjhamfon, 2s y., with
his family to i3lt two of his sons, who ar
in a summer camp with students. It was
their first meeting since Mr. Smith was
elected Muyor.
Tho present chief executive and the
former Mayor sat for an hour on tho front
porch of the bungalow whero Mr. Blankcn
burg Is resting, and exchanged pleasantries
and best wishes between occasional serious
discussions of tho affairs of tho city of
Philadelphia.
Former Mayor Blankenburg himself
brought up the subject of transit Mayor
Smith had 'been telling Mr. Blankenburg
how ho hoped to realize an ambition to com
pleto somo of the municipal Improvements
provided for In tho loan bills that were rati
fied at tho primary election last May, when
tho former Mayor asked, "How about tha
transit agreement between the city and the
transit company?"
'There may bo u -surprise for somo peo
plo when tho negotiations aro completed,'"
answered tho present Mayor. Ho then cava
Mr. Blankenburg a suggestion as to why he
is so bitterly opposing Harry J. Trainer,
Penrose-McXIchol leader In the 3d Ward.
"Harry Trainer." he said, "has tried to hook
me up with those people (meaning the P.
H. T.). I am satisfied, however, that every
thing will work out all right in the transit
question. Tho negotiations are now under
way."
CALLED TO PAY RESPECTS.
Mayor Smith sought he Interview with
his predecessor, who so vigorously sup
ported George D Porter, Mayor Smith's op
ponent, in the campaign last fall. "I was
up this way, and I could not pass without
paying my respects," he told Mr, Blanken
burg when tho former Mayor greeted him.
Neither Mayor Smith nor Mr, Blankenburg
discussed politics. "I have made my pur
pose and attitude sufficiently clear," said
Mayor Smith after the conference. Tha
former Mayor confined, himself to expres
sing the opinion that the much-heralded
"harmony" will soon pass. If there Is any
harmony at all with the Republican Or
ganization In Philadelphia.
Mayor Smith went 10 miles out of his
way to confer with his predecessor. He
and Mrs. Smith, together with two of their
sons. Da-vis Page and Thomas B, Jr., left
Philadelphia at 1030 yesterday- morning
by automobile to lsjt their two other sons,
Frederick and Harvey. They wero caught
In a fe-iere storm just outside of Bagton.
After lunching at Easton they continued
on their way, and encountered two mora
storms beforo they reached the 1'oeonoa.
It was raining when they arrived at
Pocono Pines. Former Major and Mrs.
Blankenburg were sitting on the porch
of their bungalojv, where fhey have been
rusting since their return frojh the West,
when the Mayor's car passed. Mr. Blank
enburg was reminiscing at the time. "This
time last year," he said, "I was answering
two dozen long-distance telephone calls a
day and wus feigning bunches of contracts
that Mr Cooke brought up to roe."
It was suggested that Mayor Smith, aUo
will soon be signing many contracts, sine
the loan bills have passed. "What i Mayor
Smith doing besides naming new ward
ltadersf caustically asked Blankenburg.
Just then the Mayor's $ar paas4 Mr,
Evening Ledger
.
V
?"-Mj-fiiririi- f-i Mpt jfjjjiflt3i
utalTA
