WEATHER
flaKTl.T n.Ol l>Y TO-IMI *>P TO
xjllRROM . WITH MIOW IRS RflBTflJ 1
iM.HiM'.v rarwoiuxa mikth
i _r*___uui un iki>h.
faill Rr|x>rl on Teae 11,
\aa\***WkL F.'tfef +ss J,
&&*
ifriliiiite
CIRCULATION
Over 100,000 Dail*
Net Paid, Non-Returnab!e
Voi_ LXXVI No. 25.443.
llopaTlalil IfUtV?
thr lilt.tmr Asa'n]
First to Last? the Truth: News - Editorials - Advertisements
FKIDAY. JILY 14, 1916.
? e *.
^v-!? r*|*r\T ta Jf#w Tork c,,f* *?*****'
Jrrtey Clly and Umbekem.
"Offensive Only Begun," Says Asquith
TIGER SHARKS
SEEKPREYOFF
CITY BEACHES
-
Two Bathers, Man
and Woman, Pursucd
at Shccpslicad Bay.
MATAWAN CREEK
HUNTERS SEE 10
Lonc Island and Jersey
Coasts Seem Infested
with Man-Eaters.
Shar'?.= are swarrrv.ng .n the waters
,- , ? ? Nrw Torll ar.d al! along
- the southward. according
fp re; I iej from w.dcly sep
Coaey Island and
annel were addrd to the
? . ? . - DBB had
\ Bril ll .--'.oop from the
broag-1 ia a seore of shark?
BW had caught on the voy
? A* leaal *,r, wera
; m Matawan Creek. where two
<d and one maimed on
-- el fhe rrerk and tVre f-urfare
?rr were thick t :*h shark
. raeked ar.d dynamite
: all day. Wmdows of Pennsyl
,r.d Jersey Central trains were
<- inous faccs as the coarhes
? . the drawhr dre ahout 100 yards
... -trf I r ?? ' was
? . ? ' *
Boy Virtim'a Body Miasing.
erell's bodj wa* not found,
. . half a dozen charges of dyna?
mite, consisting of five atteka each.
. ? expleded :n the hope of bringing
Nor were anytharks
? ? the creek.
Davis, Ralph Gal! and Henry
patr ag the stream in their
-.at, had reached a roint just
tba railroad Dridge at 1:^0 in
rrnoon when they caught sight
_? iharka Thr Oak were swrnn
?rcam and their f.r.s cut the
rank. As the motor
t aearee* them three of the aharks
ar.d BUMtfl upstream. The
Bi d past.
The men are fishermen. Thej are
t arith the sandshark and the
? all agree that the Ash
lay were neither
ror dogfish. They were
in color and incredihly swlft
Bgtk ranged from nine
:<*et.
Race to f.ive Warning.
? . tkeir aaei about and
.-.wn.-trcam tr, Keyport warning
-, --.en to get out their nets
lltl . *" the meshes that had
? aated Wednesday night were
iuled up yesterday. Last night the
ligfatei ' ' ' .-upplanted by length*
??v chickea wire woven tog,
. -
chicken wire barrier wa
h\ a group of hunters
?he railroad bridge.
^ere N'orman Tyce, Robert Riirns,
Roiman, (harlea Tyce. 1 ony
?...?nn Coatlek. Wcighting a
wire, that was long
. - uhe creek and about
. t, with srsh wcights,
? - r<
>h.,rk 1 rumplea Nelting.
.... tbe aarfaee
... .. by about three feet. It
gkl el the afternoon
that a shark tested
dowaatreaai the tisn
ed tha netting by hia -mr*"'t
the drenching downpour the
. |efl their guns under stiel
Sorman Tyce t
T?-re
ting te hia eampaniona, Tyce
. ai], ?? hur at th*4
? already pohing!??
.. ?-. ... .-. ? n an el nrt to
?he netting. rhere ?'??
be had, and in hu ?4AK,,,'
? laal hii balaae*
tehing hi? flodden atraw hat, he
. rraward. it landed j
t) ?? struggling shark. Ihe
I tai] aae made up.-tream.
Six Man-F.aters Sightead.
?urning from his trip to
? -ral 'he net, reported that
riaaaaiag up
aaar its atoath.
booka, with wire or cha.n lead
, boen set along the bank of
fl-Oia KeyPOrt tO Matawan
a .d aboTO. The hooks are visited by
. ? erv few minutes. One of
watched over by the
, . -wimmi.ig w-ith Still
, ?? , . hark seized him. They
?., keep up their vigil all night.
V ? .??., boya who were Rahing off
? tha New Jersey Briel
? Hatawaa, when- Joaeph
: . .ttacked, raa aa to the eil
laga with tha story that they had seen
a great tin ..utting through tht- water.
lnvadera Are Rare Here.
Johnson Nichols, curator of recent
lishee at the American Museum ot Nat
ural Hiatory, weat to Matawan jreflter
day on hearing a report that a >hark
rad been caught. Hfl wiahed to cx
amir.,- ;t, a. he had no record of a
a-.a-oaUag shaik havmg been captured
in theae ua ci>. The rumor *?**4*r***4***J
error.eoua.
"Il may be one shark or there may
b? a dozen of them," he said. "From
4 outtnurd ou page 4, column 1
Paralysis Not Easily
Caught, Says Flexner
Outlook Not Discouraging. He Tells Doctors?More Re
coveries from Disease than Is Generally Believed?
Isolation of Cases Public's Best Protection.
Dr. Simon Flexner read Ihe paper appaarillg below last night to I
rvpaeity audienee in Aeolian Hail. Invitations to the meeting had been
sent hy the Board of Health to every physician in the eity. Dr. Flexner
il ree-ardod as the foremost American authority on infantile paralysis,
and his advioe ia iooked upon as a milestone in the fight against the plagi-e.
It was Dr. Klexner who first announced that he had isolatcd the in
fantilg paralysis germ and succeeded intran smitting the disease to lower
_nimals. His success came at the end of a long period of labor. Sinc
1909 he has heen head of the lahoratories at the Rockefellcr Institute, h:i
di covered a serum for the eure of cerehro-spinal meningitis, and has made
important itudies in canoar, leprosy, snake venom and hacillary dysonteiy.
By SIMON FLEXNER. M D.
(Director of I.aboraforira of The Rorkefeller Instltutc for Medical Rf search.)
The Rockefellcr Institute for Medical Research has heen appealecl
to by so many physicians and laymen for information and advice rn
the subject of infantile paralysis that it has seemed desirahle to rela'e
the facts of present knowledgc concerning certain highly pertinent
?apcaeta of ihe di.-casc, together with deductions of practical importanrc
denved from them.
NATIRE.
Infantile paralysis is an infectious and communicable disease which
is eaused hy the invasion of the central nervous organs?the spinal cord
pnd brain?by a minute, filtorable micro-organism whieh has now been
iocurod in artifioial culture and as such is distinctly visihlc under Ihe
higher powers of the microseope.
The virus of infantile paralysis. as the micro-organism cau.-ing it is
termed, exists ennstantly in the central rervous organ? and up<>n the
mucous membrane of the nose and throat ar.d cf the intestines ir. persoir,
sufferir.g from the disease: it occurs less frequently in the other intern.'il
organs, and it has not been detected in the general cireulating blood of
patients.
I.O( ATION OF VIRU9 IN HEALTHY PER.SONS.
Although the micro-organism of infantile paralysis is now known, the
diffieulties attending its artiticial cultivation and identification under the
microseope are such a? to make futile the employment of ordinary haeterio
|ogi(.al tests for its detection. Nevertheli sr, the virus can he detected by
rontinueil on pajre 6. enliimn -
ALL SPAIN PLACED
UNDER MARTIAL LAW
Strikcs and Disorder Spread
Throughout Country.
Madrid, July 13. In view of the rail?
road Btriha the government ha;-. sus
per.ded the constitutional guaranteea
and martial law wafl proclaimed
throuK-hout Spain to-nipht.
King Alfonso has arrived at Madrid
fror** l.a Oianja. A general s'nke ia
announced for July 16.
The city anl pr4->vince of Madrid
were deelared by the government in
t? of siege on Thursday, because
of the ni]] - . which ha.- d:s
the transportation I
of tbe country and has resulted in
rseriou
- ' growing steadi
ly more serious, According to DOfl
patchei from Spain. linca last March,
when BeriouB riots occurred in'many
towns. eansing Bovflral doatha and the
wounding at a great number of per
ROOSEVELT ARMY DIES
FOR LACK OF A WAR
Will Bc Formcd in Case of
Emcrgency. Says R. H. Post.
Colonel Theodore BooflOTfllt'fl pro?
posed army division passed away fflfl
terday for lack of a war. Regis B.
QOTflrnor of 1'orto r.ico and
clost friend of the (olonel, after a con?
ference with him yesr.tday. announced
that ne further r-tatcment would be
made regarding the proposed force.
Mr. Paat aad Waltoi ?'. Hajrea have
been acting as recrulting officers for
the propoaed diviaion. They have said
they have brrn flooded with applica
tion.i, arril, while no definite liguros have
been made public, II is undorstood rhat
the appl.ca'ion numbered more than
10,000.
Mr Tost stated that there would be
10 qeoatiol regarding the orgaflixation
of the troopa m ca.-e of need. but that
the claaa of men who were anxious to
ally themselve- with (olonel Roose?
velt are of BUCB standing that they
could not afTord to give up their busi
B#M) rxcepting in caflfl of a national
emt-rgencv.
Neither Colonel Roosevelt nor Mr.
Poflt would comment on the announce
ment Bhortlj DflfOW H WU* made. Mr
H ?.,?? gflid that so many offers of
?Blifltment had come rhat it was difl
COM to handle them all and that many
of the leBtera aaii of a most cnthusi
asric character. ^^^^
MRS. E. H THOMAS
R0BBED IN MONTREAL
Pursc Snatcher Gets $18,000
Nccklace and $700 in Money.
Montreal. Julv IS. Mrs. K. R
Thomas. wife of the New York banker,
was robbed of a nccklace valued flt
118,000 aad 1700 ia cash he.e to-day.
Mra, Thomaa carried rhe t-alaablea
and money la a handbag. She Baid
the bag was snatched by a thief whrn
-he left her hotd for a stroll.
-?a
r.KKAT Br.AK M'KIMi **ATEB?60e
tha taa* ol fltfl fll*.** au.i>i>fred boltU-a.?
4uiL I
WIDOW ENDS LONG
HUNT FOR SLAYER
Says She Has Kept Vow to
Catch Man Who Shot
Her Husband
A little woman aat yesterday with
her dimpled bahy on her lap and smiled
for the tirst time in two montha. Once
fhe even lauf-hed, all becauae, as the
result of her long search, the man whn
she is fcure killed her husband, Harry
Lasniekjr, on May 20, was safely behind
prison bars, and her vow never to re.-t
night or day until she found him araa
, fulfllled.
Mrs. Jennie Laznieky, twenty-four,
I told of how her husband met his death
and how she set out to keep her vow.
She told how she and her twenty
i seven year old husband w, l having
, dinner at the home of her mother, Mrs
Eather MrNally, 1414 Fecond Avenue,
when her brother ran upsUirs and told
Laznieky some boys were rranking up |
his taxi and were ready to steal it. The
huthand. a chauffeur, owmng his own
taxi, jumped from the table and, kiss
lag his baby as he passad his wife,!
rushed down.-tairs.
Heard Fatal Shot.
"Not f.ve minutes after that I heard
i tar shofs," said Mrs. Laznieky. "It
aeeaaed that when Harry got to the
[ Btreet he found aeventeen-year-old
! Jimmy fi'Bnen cranking up the car, |
j and he told him to <_rt away. What
i ever the boy said must have in.-ul'.d
; him, for he ran after Jimmy and faea
I him a good slap. In a crowd of young
j fellows standing near was Happy Jack
pougherty. My two brothers say
Dongaert]* int, rfered with Harry. Then
; when he was getting the worst of it,
t> y said, he pulled out a revolver and
:-hot Harry dead.
"Rut Deaghertjf knew what he was
deinf. Thera was many a eeld night,
when I was a small girl, that he
i wouldn't have had anything to eatif
it hadn't been for my mother. I've
even shared the dinner from my own ,
t platfl with the creature who killed my
I husband.
"After the funeral I started out to
I hi-.it. 1 knew my man, for there were i
twenty-tv'.) per.ple who saw him. I
was sine I'd Ml him through a woman,
but the qaeatien ??* arhiel woman?
"A girl I had long ktmwn proved a
great aid. She knew peopie I didn't,
and went to dance halls and places
where she tell in with Dougherty a
erewd. I knew it was usele.-s for me
to go to such places.
Tracked Through Woman.
"It was she who picked up an ac
qnaintaaee with 'Bohcmian Josie,'
Dougherty'a awMtlteai- I never saw
this Josie Cameaaki, but I knew every
move slie made.
"Yesterday morning I got a tel?
ephone call say ing that Dougherty
would be at Jo*>ie's house, 282;
Tenth Avenue, about noon. The
dctecti-ea and I took up our places
te wait until policemen were posted, so
he couldn't get away. Josie left the
house and went into a Btere, comingi
OUt with a lot of bags. She then,
hought some newspapers ar.d r.-turned.
Detectiea Kilroy followed hrr and j
brough- Dougherty down."
Doughertv was held yesterday on a
charee of tirst degree murder for the
alleged kill.ng of Laznieky. The poliee
,ay he mada a full confe6i/>n.
PLAGUE CASES
DROPPINGOFF;
ONLY 117 NEW
Though Deaths In
crease, Doctors See
Hope of Winning.
MAYOR'S BOARD
TO GO SLOWLY
Expeiis Not in Favor of
Radical Measures for
Curbing Malady.
One hundred and seventeen new
cases of lofaatilfl paraljTflil and twtnty- i
four deatbl were reported to the,
Baalth Department yesterday.
Since .lune 20, when rhe .-prrad of
the malndy began to causc alarm, the
livcs of more than 300 children, most
of them stricken while r.p-.ar. r.rly well,
have been Itl to1,1 in the greater city.,
Thouf-h nortality ngaraa roafl agam
yelt, rday, for the 'irr-r time in many
days a feeling of optimism ptevailed
among phy.-icians. For the secon i
BUeceS8iT8 day the number of new
cfKOf ahowed a marked r|e.-rea?e, and
fear thal rhe |M eaaoa found Tuesday
would make rhe fight fllmoM hoprles?
were dispelled.
Brool.Hn Again l.eada.
A? or every praviOBfl day -in.** ca:-cs
began to appear by hundrrds, Brook?
lyn suffered mo;t Berereljr, leventy.flizI
n*w caaei being discovered there.'
Mar.haUan reported sixteen; Queens, {
where the disease Beemfl to be garning,'
twelve. Richmond, ten, and The Bronx,1
three.
In eontraif to th* more encnuragintr
situation in Haa York. th* New Jersey
S*a*e Hcal'h Department r'rnds the out- '?
look in that fltatfl .-erious. Fifty-three
new cases were repor'ed, making a
total of |10 ifl tr.irteen citiflfl and
towns. N'ewark reported twenty-two. ]
The eammlttea eppolntod Wodaflada**
by Mayor Mitchel ?o consider sugges?
tions of further measures fldvisablfl
met yesterday afternoon in the office
of Hcalrh (ommissioner Kmerson. The
membera of rhe committee Dr. BimOfl
Flexner, Dr S. S Goldwallr, Dr. A. H.
Do'v, Dr. Antonia Stella, Dr. I.con
I.ouria and Dr. Walter B James sev- i
eral members of the medical advisory
board, including Dr. Laland K Cofer
and Dr. Francis CartOI Wood, and
Commissioner EflBflrSOfl were presenr.
lt wa- dflCidfld, afrer much diseus
aion, that <t would bfl wiflfl to keep
track of persons i\ho hnd been in eon
ta.-? arith paralraii patienta with a
-. tw to .letermining whether such per-'
sons apread rh" disease. a committee
prohably will be formed to do this;
work.
More Cirrulars Ordered.
Jf was a]to d*cid*d that addiiional
circulars of informarion for the benetit ,
? pnblic and rhe ni'-dical profes
ajon should be widely distribated
The Mavor had asked thfl committee
to conr-i.ler leveral uggefltiona an to'
the can-" of th" epidemic and the ad
vi-ab'hry of eertain preventit-e naaaa*
.it >i kf tinal * prefld. On all bu' ..r.e
of these the COmmittflfl reported nd
versely. I* wa* decided thal 'he exist
ence of cases of infantile paralysis in
diatrieta near pn-'* eaii maraeta in Man
hat'an tnd The Hronx was a mere coin
cidence, whieh COnld no* r*ive a causal
relfltionflhip to the occurrrnce of th<*
disea-e; that the diflinfeetion of lowor
I.-,, and honfle aewera and the
?prinkling of di Infectatata on thej
-...- nd aidewmlka ot mfertcd dia?
? | ,,?? ,- mld not be < ipected to have
f.ny effect up'.n thc ipread of rhe dia
,ii,| rhat the killing of all cats
and dog3 in .*uch distr:'-*- wa I not de
sirable.
|| wai further agreed thal rhe estab
iishmer.r of tent eoloniflfl on beaches or
elaewhera aithin the eitj* was nor de
lirable. The eommittee thoughl II ad
playgroand
fnrilit ?
Ihe surgeons of rhe Federal servire
now in New York batre perfected plan.
fr.r their rc-inrch wrk. Part of their
laboratory Intraatigation will be ear
ried on at rhe hospital on Ellia Island
and part, in all probability, in the lab
oratoriOfl Of the < ollege of Physicians
And SurgflOBfl. Thfl work will be t-eri
( ontlnu*<l on p.iK* 7, rolumn S
Z EPPELIN LINE
TO U- S. NEAR,
SAYS KOENIG
Air Freighters Now
Building, Asserts
Deutschland Chief.
BIGGER SURPRISE
THAN SUBMARINE
England Plans Reprisal
for Rubber Sale to
Germany.
rfrnra i .**??_ '."r**>*r*"r..l?4nt ot Th* Ttlr*un* 1
Baltimore, July II Zeppelin ser?
vice between the I'nited States *"*
f.ermany is a thing of the near future.
according to Captain Koenig, who
brought the first merehant aubmarine
into port here. City officiais who vis
Ited the Deutschland to-day quote the
captain as saying that airship freight
. : ate under consf ructioo in Ger?
many for traaaatleatla passage.
"To you," (aptain Koenig wa*
r-uoted a.s saving. "the trip of the
Deutschland is a great arhievement,
hut you mustn't be too enthusiastie
over it, for a bigger surprise is com
mg.
"A grcn' Zeppelin airship or may
be I -hould say airships are being
built in (.ermany. In the not diatant
future one or more of them will sail
tr-.m'izh the a:r to the I'nited States.
Jaat as sure as the Deutschland came
to America, ft arill the Zeppehns
come."
A trade reprisal is planned. '.t is said,
hy officiais of the British government
m this country againat inaporUra who
sold the rubber cargo that the sub?
marine merchantman Deutschland arill
carry back to Germany. A relentless
investigation is under way to ferret out
the lirm or individual that figured in
the transaetion, and every effort is to
be made to prevent additional pur
rhases that may reach the ecemies of
th? Allies.
Persons who have seen the rubber
cargo stored in the warchouse of A.
N-humarher _ Co., the Eastern For
warding Company's agents for the
Deutschland's owners, say that it is
good quality rubber not scraps. Be
sides the entire cargo of rubber and
nickel which the Deutschland will take
back to (iermany is estimated to be
worth about $1,000,000 in (iermany.
Ambassador Knterlained.
The (ierman Ambassador was enter
taiaed for twelve hours to-day by offi
.ifl of (he Deutschland, the vcs.-el I
agents, "arl A. Luderits, German Con
,ul at Baltimore, and Mayor James H.
1 ri tOB. Count von BernstorfT, Hugo
Schmidt and Dr. Albert arrived about
noon, and went d.rectly to the Ger
mania (lub with Consul Ludentz. Cap?
tain Paul Koenig, Pirat Officer Carl
Kiapohl. Second Officer Kynng and
Chief Engmeer Klees, of the Deutsch?
land; Mavor Preston and several other
City officialfl were waiting with Paul]
Hilken and his father. Henry G. Hilken.
On ?h< way to the Daatschtand. < ap?
tain Koemg Baneated that. the Ameri?
can flag flving from the tug's mast be
tranaferred te the submarine. So just
?. tha OenaaB Ajahaaaader and party1
walked up the Deut.-chland's gangplank
the Star? and Stripes mour.ted the,
forward man on the aubmarine's
deck. She then flew the house flag
of the Denteehei Ozean Rhederte and.
the (ierman flag.
Ceaat ron BernstorfT was drippmg
per--piration when he returned to the
eity tug. The entire party had spent
nearly an hour poking their aeaaa late
all corners of the submarine and hav
mg this and that explained. It was
the German ambassador'a first visit
to an undersea vessel. He aaid later
it must have cost him ten pounds'
weitrht. He was not talkative, by any ,
?eana.
Wonderful Boat.
"Of cour-e the boat is wonderful."
said lha German Ambassador. "It is
a great achievement, but I do not need
to beeat mv ee/i peopie. It certainly
was hot inside. About 110 I should
say. The poor men must have suffered
co'nung over. I feel as though I had
plajred about ten sets of tennis."
(ount von Bernstorff's dispatches
(ontintieil on pa?e S, rolnmn 4
Germany?and Grant
In 1864 Grant came East with the one clear purpose
of attackinfi all fronts simultaneously. To-day the Allies
are adopting the plan hy which Grant wore out the Con
federacy. Will it wear out Germany and Austria?
Frank H Simonds, from his first hand knowledge
of trench n?*hting, writes in next Sunday's Tribune the
first r*-ally clean-cut statement of what the Battle of the
.Somme is accomplishing. He doesnt overestimate or
underestimate?he simply gives the facts.
Your newsdealer has your summer address, hasn t he ?
?he ^lmftag 2Fritmttt
Firit to Latt?the Truth
S'eus?Editorialt?Advartittmtntt
1
' WE HA VE SEIZEDINITIA TIVE,'
DECLARES LLOYD GEORGE
Joffre Plan Unshaken
By Verdun Pressure
Refuses To Be Diverted from Picardy Drive?British Make
Slow Progress and French Await Big Guns,
Delayed by Weather.
By FRED B. PITNEY.
Paris, July 13.?While the British are continuin'Tj th,nr slow progrress
on the north, there has come a lull in the French attack in Picardy. B_d
weather has made impossible the bringing up of the heavy guns, and until
the artillery has once more cleared the way the attack will not be renewed.
Meanwhile the Germans have Turned loose their seventh grand assault
against Verdun, the only point where they now have the initiative. They
seem determined to omphasize their initiative there. but the French high
eommand cannot be drawn off by any attempts at a German diversion, and
their attack will be met without any chance in Joffre's plans.
The German successes at Verdun yesterday broupht *hem within eight
hundred yards of Souville, and to the slopes of Fort Tavannes, which is the
northeasternmost point of the present Verdun lines, but at Souville?their
nearest point?they are three and a half miles from Verdun, and figuring
lij* this rate of progress in the last five months it will take them two months
more to reach Verdun.
Meanwhile, unlike the last five months, they are under steady pressure
he.au.-e of the offensive by the Allies. The Germans produced eighteen
thousar.d men for attacks yesterday on Verdun?certainly plenty, consid
cring the results?but much below the former figures in such operations.
Meanwhile they have been obliged to rush reserves to both English
and French fronts in Somme, and von Hindenburg and Mackensen have
(?lled for twenty divisions. But the Kaiser has only twelve di\isions tu
Jispose of?of which eight are destined for the Eastern front. There is
i great discrepanoy between eight and twenty, a discrepancy all in favor
of the Russians.
The English in their offensive now apparently have stopped frontal
attacks, and are pursuing the French tacti<-= of flanking German positions.
( ont.nuerl on pafle 2, rolumn 1
LIGHTNING KILLS
WOMEN'S CADDY
Strikes Among Great Neck
Players?Bolts Slay 3
Others in Storm.
Th* hghtning of yesterday'.- s'orm.4
whieb 'ook four lives in and near this ;
city, played its grimmest freak on the '
golf course of the Great Neck Golf
and Country Club.
De-pite the gathering clouds. thej
contestants in a complementary ,
match were striving to hole out be- j
fore the rain came. ln the group of
players and ipflCtatora WflW Mrs.!
Osear Lawiaohn, who was Bdaa May: ;
Mrs. William Hodgfl, Mrs. Cbatiflfll
Goddard, Mra Wallaea Eddiagar, wife;
Af a member of the "Boomerang" I
company. and Mrs. .loshua Cobin.
Mrs. LflWifloha and Mrs. Goddard
were tied for first place in the match.
and had both played up to th* pat
ting green. Felix Jacobus, their!
caddy. skipped ahead of them, lifted
the flag from the hole. and s'ood
aside for rhem to make their put's.
Players See Boy Killed.
Suddenly a jagged streak of Hght?
ning struck Jacobus to the ground.
He was dead when the women players
reached his side. Mrs. Eddinger
fainted.
The caddy's body was carried into,
the garage of the club. Jacobus was
twen'y-one years old, and had fre
qtiently acfed as caddy for Jerome
Travers. The tournament haa been
postponed for a week.
While the hghtnmg of the violent
storm took but four lives. the intense
heat that preceded the rain had to its
credit a total of at least ten deaths
and thirty prostrations.
Wires and washouts along the New
York, New Haven & Hartford and the
Long Island branch of the Pennsyl?
vania delayed traffc. New York Central
trains were slow. Long-d:stanee servico
of the telephone company was disar
ranged. Wires between here and Chi?
cago are down. Western I'nion line*
were damaged by Ughtning.
Tba storm caosed > lerl .ofstrang*
Aceidentfl.
When Rudolph Jockers was killed. he
flrflfl standing under an oaK tree in a lot ;
at SprittgOeld, N. J. Not far away was
a maple tree. Lightning struck the
maple. ran through the ground. and en?
tered Jockerg's body.
Made nervous by the thunder and
lightning, Sadie Sutter in Flatbuah
g.-ive her two-year-old child a dose of
lysol. In her confusion ahe mixed two
bottles. ihe thought --he was adm.n- j
istenng jough medicines. The child
was taken to Brndfo.d Street Hospital. ?
At Yonkers thrflfl rarehorses were j
killed bv lightning. Thfl** were Nanc> |
Fair and Cockasell, OWBfld bv August
Belmont ard Variety. owned by Jam.s
Butler.
The storm began in New "tork < it\*
proper at -??"'-? lt was ended officially ,
at 7. Th* poflfliblliVvf of a repetition of
the thunderstorm was biatfld at last
night when tr.e local weather bureau |
received warr.ing of a hurncane off Ty
bce Island, Ga., that seemed to be
movmg noithward
BrookHn Suffera Mueh.
Brooklyn was the worit lufferer in
the city. The residential sections of
toatleoed ea pace 3. rolumn 8
FRENCH LEADERS
IN AIR FIGHTING
Allied Aviators Actually
Co-operate with In?
fantry in Battles.
Dompierre. Picardy, July 13. A
string of great balloons one can count
sixteen without glasses?is the first
thiag a reporter sees on this front.
Next hi j eyes wander to the uncount
able batteries in action. Above them
the aerial telephone stations swing be
yond the trajectory of the German gun
fire.
On the German side not a jingle bal
loon is visible. Fifteen have been
burned in the air by a serret con
trivance, known only to the Allies,.
smce *he offensive began. The (ierman
artiilery is biinded because the Allies'
have now obtained the mastery of the
air, according to the confident claims of
the British and French officers. It is ?
true that, from this point of view, a ,
(ierman aeropiane is rarely sighted,
while French aviators are constantly
ea the wing.
A dramatic and startling novelty has.
been presented by the Allied aviators,
in this great offensive. French and
British airmen have actually cooperat- \
ed in infantry charges. They have1
*wept over the battlefield at as low an
altitude as <"00 feet, and some of the
more daring have swcped over the
struggling armies at as low aa 300
feet. Those airmen have signalled to
the French artillery telephoners the
precise positions of the (ierman ffuns
and the (ierman forces waiting for the
French assault. They have taken great
risks of being hit by the shells of their
Bira guns, but, according to the offi
rers, every one has escaped.
The Preaeh have developedon a great
?eala their aeria) torpedoes, which are
eharged with a higher exploaive than
the large ralibred shell. These torpe?
does tan be hurled half a mile and hred
with tsuch rapidity that a aeeond will
leave the ejector while the first is still
in the air.
The village of Dompierre is hardly
more than a name. The resistance made
by the Germans here, as ia al! the.
other villages in the neighborhood.
seems to have been most tenacious.
In the remetery the vau'.t- were used
as bombproofs, and the stonei and iron
railings around the graves aa barri
cades. The French concentrated their
gun tire on the remetery at f'urlu for
half an hour before the obstinate de?
fence of the Germans waa crushed.
They used shrapnel shells, which tilled
the air with curious green, opalescent
vapors.
Keorgani'.ing the defences in the oc
7up:ed 'f-ntorv :s a vas* engineenng
work. L:j.'ht field ra.'.roads are thrown
forward to the new line, numerous
ao'rd roads are buwt across the coun- ;
try and the ring of hammer on metal
ran be heard m the intervals of artil?
lery tire. The whole reg-ion is buay
jvith preparations for holding the newly
won ground and for moving forward.
The controllirg mind o*" all this .s
General Mane-Kmile Fayolle, an elderly
urtillery commander, who had been re
tired two years before the war began.
GERMANS TO LOSE
BUTTER AND EGGS
Rcstriction in Use in Empire
Expected in September.
London, July 14. The "Cologne
Gazettc" foreahadows the introdue- I
tion in September of a butter and fat ,
card throughout the German Kmpire, |
providing for three ouncei a head a ,
week, and probably an egg card, en
titlmf tha holder to two agfa a waak. |
British Ready to Bom
bard Foe's Line
'Indefinitely.*
- *-*"**
MUNITIONS MEN
GIVE UP HOLIDAYS
Haig Needs Shells to Con?
tinue Assault, Says
Premier.
London. Julj* 13.?The hour haa
come for the great Allied blow. Tha
assault in Picardy is the forerunner
of greater everts and the criticfll day
for the Teuton is at hand.
Premier Asquith and David Lloyd
George. Minister of Munitions. de?
elared to-day that the drive along tho
Somme was or.ly the first phase of a
larger scheme.
The Premier announced in tho
House of Commons to-day that the
povernment had decided to ask muni?
tions workers to.dispense with their
."vugust holidays because an mcessent
flow of shells was needed for Gen?
eral Haig's troops to insure that "the
present mtensity cf bombardment
ar. I assault will, if nei-essary, be con?
tinued indefinitely."
Military needs, said Mr. Asquith.
had required tUtt postponement of the
June and July holidays, and the
workers had made a full response to
the government's plea. .Mr. Asquith
continued:
"But since then a great and very
favorable char.ge in the military situ
ation has been produced by the Allie*.
offensive now in progress. That of.
fensive is only in its beginning, and
it necessarily requires for its succesi
a continuous supply of munitions of
all kinds.''
Have Ciaaafld the Walerahed.
Mr. Lloyd George, who presided
to-day at ar. Allied conference on
equipment, de*!ared that the joint of?
fensive on the Somme had wrested
the initiative from the er.emy, "never,
I trust, to r.rt.rn.''
"We have crossed the watershed,"
he said, "an.: now victory is begin?
ning to flow in our direction. This
change is due to the improvement in
our equipment."
Premier Anim'h e<pr*'?ed eonvic
tion that the workmen would cooperate
in his plan 84) as to make it plain to
Great Britain's foes that the offeniive,
in its present intensity of bombard?
ment and as.aulr, wonld if necenary
be "continuec in.>nnitely." The Pre?
mier also announce.l that by royal
prcclamation the Augnst bank holidayi
would be postponed, and he appealed
to all classej for postponement of all
holidays unlil further and deftnite
progrer-s cf the offensive had been aa
sured
"From the -.ueeess aehieved," aaid
the Premier, "we have been able to
gauge the paramount. necessity of
avoiding even the shghtest risk of re
striction of the use of munitions in
the field, not merely in the weeka im?
mediately before us, but until our eb
jective is acrieved.
"In the ornion of the commander in
chief there must be no alackening in
the output even for a moment. I
therefore appeal to the patriotiim of
the workers and the r-ublio generally
to again postpone their holidayi ia
order that the attack, so brilliant!*"
begun, can be carried through to a
triumphanr. .ronclusion "
Holidavs Only Poatponed.
Where het.lth reo.uired, continued the
Premier, !??ve of abgence would be
gran'ed, and the government held itielf
rcsponsrble for seeing that the holi?
days were mereiy postponed and aet
i.bandoned.
Representatives of the Admiralty aad
the Ministry of Munitioni, he added,
would meet repreientat.vea of the
workmen and employers to aeeurc their
cooperation, and he waa sure thia
would be forthcoming and that tha
forces in the held would "be given en
couragement and the enemr diirourage
ment in thfl certain knowledge that tbe
present intensity of bombardment and
air-auit will, if r.eceisary, be continued
indertnitely "
The ??:..[?-? eonference waa held
at rhe War Office and waa partieipated
m by Mr. I.loyd George, Albert Thomas.
1* rench Minister of Munitions; General
BcliaolT, Assi?tant Minister of War of
Russia; (jer.eral A. Dail 'Olio. member
of the Iulian Miniatry of War, and
the new British Minister of Munitions,
Edwin S. Montagu.
Change In Alllee' Fortonee,
"Since our last munitioni eonfer?
ence." aaid Mr. Lloyd George, "there
has been a considerable change in the
fortunes of the Allies. On that data
the great Champagne offensive in tht
west had just failed to attain ita ob*
jeetive, and the French and Britiah
armies hid sustained heavy loaaea
without tne achievement of any per
ticular suc-ess. In the east the enemy
had preiaed the galiant armiaa af
