Partly cloudy .to-dav and to-morrow. 11 tSBf .ki S
JB&IALL
with showers ; shifting winds.
IT SHINE
Highest temperature yesterday, 88; lowest, 69.
Detailed weather, malt and mm Ine reports on page 10.
VOL. LXXXIII. NO. 318.
NEW YORK, FRIDAY, JULY 14, 1916. Copyright, lilt, hy the Sua Printing and Publishing Annnctnlinn,
ONE CENT5
tar New York, Elsewhere,
and Newark. TWO CENT).
with showirs; shifting winds. . LIT. VI t HaWKr""!!!! ' IBTl
jy city
MANY BATHERS
TELLOFSHARKS;
ONE MAN BITTEN
Sipped on Log 100 Yards
Off Hotel at Sheeps
head Bay.
GIHL AT SEA GATK
CHASED TO SHORE
Jersey Coast Resorts Set
Nets and Dynamite Is
Used at Matawan.
The stories of continued attacks by
nun eating sharks In nearby waters
or ef narrow escapes from attack came i
jesterday from many point and helped
to spread consternation among bathers
slong the New Jersey and Long Island
beaches. Then the actual capture of
sharks near here yesterday and the
many tales of sighting sharks where
none had been seen before have com
bined seriously to affect the surf bath
ing nt resorts up and down the coast
during a heated spell when the bathing
reason should Ik? at Its best. I
Dawn at Matawan, X. .1.. where old
residents and summer visitors were
laughing at the stories of death from')
shark bite along the coast until a boy 1
and man were killed In Matawan Creek I
Wednesday afternoon and another boy
as badly injured, there has been so
vast a change of attitude that now the
tuwn authorities are offering rewards
fur the rapture of man eaters.
The Matawan authorities last night
announced that the town will pay $100
for each shark killed. Four large nets
were stretched across MhIhwuii Creek
lu ring the day. the nets being about
f.00 yards apart, and boats In which
were Matawan citizens armed with poles,
tpears, firearms and sticks of dnamlte
patrolled the creek throughout the day.
Man Dlltrn In Mhrcgshcad Bar.
In Sheepshead Bay a shark attacked
Tliunms Klrhards. an assistant steward
of the Hotel Beau Htvage, when Richards
was swimming near a rowboat about
100 feet off the hotel verutida. Hotel
victors back up Klchards in the state
ment that it was a shark which chased'
him back Into the bout and there were
slight cuts on Hicharris's left leg which
were bleeding when Itlchards, thoroughly
frightened, got ashore.
Three reliable citizens living In or near
Matawan reported yesterday that they
had seen sharks at three different points
in me creea. persons standing on the
White liridge at Matawan about 5 :30
P M. all were sure the) saw a big shark
distinctly In the deep pool under the
bridge, which Is almust a mile further
nl.t ml than the t In Matawan Creek
where Lester Still well and the man who
cnt to Ills assistance, Stanley Fisher,
cte killed hy shark the day before. i
Mathers nt Sea Gate, on the western 1
end of Coney Island, are sure that it wus
a shark which chased Miss Gertrude
Huffman Inland when Miss Hoffman, who
is an expert long distance swim.ner, was
oat In1) ond the life guards. MIks Hoff
n'riii has no doubt it was a shark that
made for her.
If any fcoffera at shark stories still
I"ritcd their doubts would have been
satisfied had they seen the slonp It. C.
I.undy come to the Sheepshead Hay Inlet
jesterday with a seven foot shark In tow
uhli h hail Just been captured by ('apt.
.mtou i.unuy otr LaJiig liranch. At Blvcr
head, I.. I also, a ten foot shark, the
largest ever caught In the memory of old
t mers of that section, was caught with
hunk and line and brought ashore yester
day by the captors, H. R. Ulldersleeve
and I.croy Keeves.
Steel .Nets at Jeraejr Beaekes.
As a result of the invasion of the shore
waters of the middle Atlantic, steel nets
hae been placed outside the bathing
Hies at Anbury I'ark, at Ocean Grove
and other Jersey resorts. Motor boats
are patrolling the shores at these points,
the boatmen being armed with rifles and
lances. Local newspapers of the Jersey
resorts began yesterday to offer rewards
ranging from 16 up for the capture of
sharks of any size, and advocating edi
torially that the aame be done all along
the coast.
Hy far the most earnest efforts among
potential shark killers along the Jersey
and Iong Island coasts were being made
)ebterday by the equad of Matawan clti
i'ns who patrolled the creek where the
tragedies of Wednesday afternoon oc
curred, l.'p and down Matawan Creek,
.n which the residents of that section of
New Jersey now believe there is still a
school of man eaters, dynamite waa re
peatedly exploded with the hope that
"harks still swimming between the nets
which have been erected would be killed.
The hope of recovering the body of
I'Mer Stillwell by the use of dynamite
grows less as the hours pass, but had not
)ot been given up last night. The belief
has grown that even If the shark did not
tonsume the body of the little boy It tore
t is flesh so badly that dynamite will not
l" effective In recovering the body.
Infarct Boy Mar Recover.
While the search for the Stlllwell boy's
body was continued yesterday, word
'sine to the searchers that his playmate,
Joe runn, jo years old, whose leg was
terribly torn by a shark In Matawan
f'reek about the same time his compan
ion was killed, was in a dangerous con
d it ion In Ht, Peter's Memorial Hospital
' New- Hrunswlck, and that little hope
was entertained of his recovery. Lute
''I night, however, the hospital surgeonH
wt-e so much more hopeful about little
'"'. chances that they said they be
nevHii ha would pull through unless In
feitlon set In.
I.Ike so many other theories about the
fleets of an attack hy a shark, the be
lief held by many that a shark's bite is
poisonous waa one which even phy
sicians. Interested In the shark cases
miild not answer yesterday. Dr. (leorge
Iteynolds of the Long tiranoh Hospital,
"ho altended Htanley Klsher up to the
I me of Klsher's death Wednesday night,
leslrrday noticed some peculiar dlscol
"rations on the young trim's body. Dr.
Ilrynolis therefore made a post mortem
examination yeeterday to try to deter
mine whether or not the shark trite had
infected the wounds. Dr. Reynolds
Oenfintted on Third Pat.
AND NEW YORK
sasasasasavjt --alBvasasasasasasasasl
aaVaalaaaaaal
jaKafiaPISPB
PBBBBf. fij 1
i Ijr
aBSaSasy "ssKai
aBakV : TH
sttttttttttttHsak BsTasaSaSasaaH
BBBBBBBBBBBBBBBVja - BBBBBBBBBBBvi
John H. Clarke.
T. R. PLAN HALTS
FOR LACK OF A WAR
Colonel Drops for the l'lVM-nt
His Work of Knisinsr n
Division.
For the tlm being, at !ast. Col.
Roosevelt has abandoned his plan to
raise a volunteer division of Iii.nou men,
which he was to command This was
announced yesterday at the Jfrf ropollfiin
.ti(;ii:(nr offices, where the Colonel con
ferred with the men who were helping
him gather In the recruits.
There has been no trouble whatever,
according to Regis H. I'ot, former Governor-General
of Porto Rico, who has
been In active charge of raising the
division. In securing the men. That has
been the easiest task of all. Neither did
the Colonel nor his assistants worry about
equipment. They did. however, worry
about the absence of a war. They
further realized that there Is little like
lihood of I'ncle Sam engnging In one
Just now, and so decided to abandon the
division idea for the present.
The following statement was Issued by
Mr. Post last evening after he and the
Colonel and others had gone over the
matter In detail:
-mis uivision would, or course, nae
been raised In the event of a war, and
only In the event of a war. The men I
whom Col, Roosevelt would have asked
to ko mm it me not men wno
properly be asked to
there was a war; and In
thut it seems unlikely
there will be a war nothing further will
be said In any shape or way about theugo.
proposed division."
Mr. Post, however, will keen In touch
- - - -- ,, j iiiirirniru ill niu tuuiige- I
with the men who have been lecrultlng ' town I'didlcnfor. !
the volunteers, so that In the event of The nomination of Clarke for Asso
war the Colonel will be in a position to 0ate Justice of the Supreme Court will
send out a call for hasty mobilization. ,e a victory for Newton D. Baker, Sec-'
After settling the fate of the division retarv of War. This feature of the i-nse
the Colonel talked politics with George
t nlfln. ..V.. I S.IMIII..... Lll 1..
W. Perkins abd William Fllnn, the j Democrats, who say that while It will be ' nue division of the Lone Island Itallroad broved by laboratory and clinical studies. "ar
Moose leader of Pennsylvania. Fllnn nonular In northern Ohio. It will not i v.... v..- v.-i, i... ..i..i.. i .. lie nnJnted out that while the ti.itieum i,h i Lord D'Abe
told the Colonel that the Washington
party, the name by which the I'roeres-
i..-.-, nt nii"n in me nr"i.iir .-.mitr,
has followed his advice a.-.d will support
'he Republican candidates.
The Colonel absolutely refused to talk
for publication. He reiterated that he
Is a "private cltiien." In fact, he said,
"I am an exceedingly private citlien."
r!iln!nr nnd trtt fnr hi.wt f.,r th. Mr-
Klnley memorial at Canton, Ohio. He
" ' :
motored back to Oyster Bay last night
"DESERTED," SAYS ROOSEVELT.
Write lletrnlt Mouse That Parts
Went Away From lllin.
In a letter written to W. W. Hill of
Iletrolt, Theodore Roosevelt says that it
was not he who deserted the National
Progressive party but that the party
deserted him. Here Is what the Colonel
wrote :
"I am very glad )nu feel that I took
the right course. As Raymond BoIiIiih
aald. It was not I who deserted the
Progressive party. It was the Progressive
party that deserted us. In New York
State, for Instance, 1 continued to tight
hard up to the time that seven-eighths
of our party left us. lt then became
Impossible for me to accomplish any
thing. "It la Just as you say about Douglas,
He did his best against Lincoln In the
tight for Senator and when the Issue was
between Lincoln and secession he did
everything he could for '.lucoln. Lin
coln himself ahowed the same spirit that
wc are showing when he supported
Trumbull for Senator after lie himself
had been deprived of the nomination and
election which the bulk of the antl
Democratic men wanted him to have."
KNEW ONION SHIP ARRIVED.
Port OfflclaU Thong-lit Ship Haa
More Than 1,000 Ton.
Spanish onions may be a bit cheaper
to-day, a 1,600 tons arrived .veaterdsy
by the French steamship Vllle du Havre,
which, Mailing originally from Marseilles
with a light cargo, touched at Uandla
and rilled her holds with onions.
Quarantine noted the naturo of the
cargo before the freighter got thete.
Later the odor permeated the upper bay.
SEARCHLIGHTS SWEEP BORDER.
Hilltop Beacon Will Prereat
.Mexicans' Xlght Raid.
UAfli.c PAWt, Tex., July 13. Military
authorities to-day placed powerful
searchlights; on hilltops and other van
tage points near the Mexican border
here.
This will make It practically Import
slble for any military activity to be con
ducted near the border under cover of
darkneia.
JUDGE CLARKE TO
GET HUGHES POST
Wilson's Reported Choice for
V. S. Supreme Bench a
Cleveland Man.
SHONE IN' LOWER COURT
Just a Chance Powling May
Not Have Been Entirely
Eliminated.
Washington, July 13. President WIN
son Is understood to have selected John
II. Clarke. United States District Judge
nt Cleveland, Ohio, for the seat on the
Supreme bench occupied by Charles 12.
Hughes, Republican Presidential candi
date. The President's final choice lay
tween Judse Clarke and Justice Victor
Howling of New York. The President
considered Justice Howling so favorably
some officials were not quite convinced
to-night he had been eliminated entirely.
The admission by White House ollk'l.lls
that Judge Clarke was being carefully
considered was accepted here, howevr,
as practically amounting to a rilsclosuie
of the Piesldent's selection. He Is un
derstood to have been especially hn
pressed by the maimer In which Judge
Clarke has acquitted himself of his Ju
dicial duties on the District bench.
N r tt VorL Man t'raed.
Ill deciding to choose a middle West
ern
the
man for the Supreme Court vacancy !
President disregarded the recom-
Herniation of some of his closest ail
vlsers. The.se had urged that it New
York man be chosen.
Among the New Yorkers besides Jus
tice Dnwilng connldered for the vacancy
were Justice J. T. Jenks of the New
York Supreme Court and Morgan J.
O'Brien.
Judxe Clarke has been prominent In
Democratic politics In northern Ohio for
several years. For many ears he was
the general counsel of the Nickel Plate
Railroad. After he had amassed a com
fortable Income he took a lively Interest
in politics and Joined forces with the
late Tom Johnson. He iiult h,s corpo
rate practice and advocated 2 cent fares
and other progressive measures of the
Johnson propaganda. He also defended
Johnson's policy of reducing street car
fares In Cleveland from 6 cents to 3
cents.
Once Han for Senate.
Judge Clarke was once the nominee .
of the Democrats for United States
Senator, his nomination being a triumph
for Johnson, who advocated him. The
Judge's successful opponent waa the late
Mark A. Hanna. He is very popular In
northern Ohio and una u delez-nte to the
llaltlniore convention and advocated
Woodmw Wilson's nomination,
Judge Clarke Is fill ears old and a j
bachelor. He was graduated from1
iniild have niked bachelor. He was graduated from1 At the Navy Department Assistant known about the disease. In his ad
men who could Western Reserve Cnlverslty In 1ST and i Secretary Roosevelt revelled the vl-ltors dress, which is printed in full elsiwheie
volunteer unless was admitted to the Ohio Bar the fol- and rnngrati.iled them In German upon In The Stw, he showed how the germs
ii view of the fact lowing ) ear. Two ears Inter hu moved their voyage. TI.ey Inspected historic of the dlsea'e may be Isolated and how
at present thatlio Youn-fstown nnd practiced law there naval relics In Secretary Daniels's of- ( they aie transmitted by human beings
until he temoved to Cleveland 1H )ears,Hce. Including the flag of the American
j The Judge Is a newspaper man being
I n...,.,nlit. i.. . . . .i iH u. a. .
, Is creating some unrest among the Ohio
1 .... ..... .... . .. ... .
enhance the President's popularity In
the southern part of the State. Thei
i iKmiirrsis or mat section are complain-
, nK that every Important bit of natronaue
iglven to the State under the present
Administration has gone to northern
Ohio and to friends of Secretary Baker,
who supported Wilson at the Baltimore
I convention four veara cn aealnst Juditon
i -,.1... . t....-
a 1 1 .tl'l'ltuillrin til ij tmiir v. in i iv
lile
coming so noon after the selection of Mr.
Baker will not please the southern Ohio
contingent, It was said,
Thete is reason to believe that If Har
mon had been a younger man he would
have been named by the President for
the bench.
35 FT CHANNEL FOR NAVY YARD
Siennte IIMI Amended tn Improve
the Eaat River.
Wasiiinuton, July 13. An amend
ment to the naval appropriation bill
priosed by Senator O'Horman and
ntlopted to-day In the Senate will a-lve a
SK fnt eliamiel from I.nnir lalund Solind
Dr. foot cbnnnel from Long Island found
v::?r. v!if'vj,!"is:r irK7ir; .i; pbnc service
Hell Hate's rocks. The amendment Is
'" .,he.,.'':". U.ler. lmVovem',t P""
and will ultimately Involve an expendi
ture of 11,841.000. The Immediate ap
propriation Is for 1500,000.
In explaining the amendment Senator
O'Horman aald :
"The New York Navy Tard Is now lo
cated between the Manhattan and Will
iamsburg bridges. In the event of the
destruction of either the Mauhattin or
the old Brooklyn bridge the ships In
the navy yard would be bottled up as
conditions now are. for they cannot pass
safely through Hell Hate and out
through Ixwg Island Sound. As a
strategic measure the Improvement will
nrike It necessary for an enemy to main
tain twice as many ships to blockade
effectually the port of New York."
WIFE SEES GUARDSMAN KILLED
Falls With Poller Rope In Armory
nf Ninth t'oaat Command.
Julius Lewis of 205 Kast Fourth street
quit his Job us a street car conductor
four weeks ago in order to enlist for ser
vice In Mexico and Joined the Ninth
Coast Defense Command, N. CI. N. Y.
At 11 o'clock last night In the armory
In Fourteenth street near Sixth avenue
lwls thought It would he fun to take
a ride on the pulley ropes used In lower
ing packing cases from the second bal
cony. While his wife and other women
visitors who hail come to the armory
to watch the soldiers prepare to depart
for Fort Wright for mobilisation were
looking the rope spun through the pulley
and young Lewis waa dashed to the drill
floor, receiving Injuries from which he
riled at midnight In the New York Hospital.
BURLESON DUCKED
IN POTOMAC RIVER
Postmaster-General, on Sun
day Fishing Trip, Capsi.cd
Near Great Falls.
Washington, July IS. Postmaster
General lturleson and Otto Praeger,
Postmaster of Washington, had an ex
citing experience In the Potomac River
on Sunday last. The Postmaster-General
and post office officials made every
effort to keep the story secret, but It
became known to-dny through the visit
to Washington of a spectator of the In
cident. Mr. Hurleson and Mr. Praeger, who
are ardent fishermen, were Indulging In
their favorite spnrt above Great Falls.
K boatman was poling through n rough
'lece of water, when the craft lilt a sub
merged rock and t.eeled over. The Postmaster-General
and his fishing party
were dunied Into the river. All could
swim, but they were In danger because
of the swift current
The plight was seen by ocupants of
other boats. Dr. V, Infield Clark and a
companion wen- the first to reach them
and to pull them Into their Nmt.
The rescued fishermen went to , a
small hotel near Seneca, and after dry-1
Inc their clothlnir returned to Washing-1
ton vowing they would never tell about
the ducking.
K1DLESS CIRCUS ORDERED.
Verturk Police t hief Hnrs All Chil
dren, I'rsrlnK I'nrntjsU.
Nkwaiik. July 13. Science ha taught
iTlhouf sn hK
.is mo sometimes found where there Is
no moon, but by no stretch of the ltuaci-
nation can one picture a circus without ,
kids.
Yet Thief of Police I.onc of tlil city I
has decreed that no child under D )eu
of age will be allowed to enter the big '
white tent that Harnum & llalley s clr-
ius will llll II HI r-oillll .'I-iiiki. inviiuc
and Twelfth street for two performances
to-moirnw.
Chief lying's order was a precaution
against Infantile paralysis. The result
InaSeAlhminls- I
thers who have enjoyed the show- year
after ear, going, of course,
'Just be-
cause the Kills like to sec It.
the k'ds.
And ak
SITS IN WILSON S CHAIR..
One of Dentai-bland's Crew Tickles
Comrades at White lloaar.
Washinoton; -JOIjr 1J Six seamen
from the German submarine merchant
man Deutschland came over from Haiti-
"ore to-day and were entertained at the i
hlte House and the Navy Department.
1 A White House attache bowed them '
through the Kast, Illue and Red rooms, ,
the Cabinet room and President WIN
I son's private offli-e.
t One asked permission to sit In the
rresaienrs cnatr at tne head of the
Cabinet table, and he did It while his
comrades Krinneil with appreciation.
At the Navy Department Assistant
isubmarlne F-t, whlih sank with twent-
one men.
I -
CRASH DELAYS COMMUTERS.
ona
Island I.ncal Snisthri
Ash Train.
Into
An o,en switch on the ri,itbuh ave-
rue car local paHw-nger train fiom Ja'-
n,Hca to crash Into the rear tar of an
illHh train As a lesult aliout sixty trilns
1 u.,i ,,,,,. h.,i.i ....
several hours The switch It li sanl
waB Ml for the aB ,raln H'd l ie , ':
I take Is attributed to the towerinV.ii
I The Writ at dectm
.. J ",..H''. .H'c?"rt.. "T" f. ."!e
JUIfd.
$62 LIGHT BILL IN 4 ROOM FLAT,
As It Waa lnl for 'Jll l)na, P. S. V,
Will Take I .latrr.
Phlneas Kent, Jr., of i37 First ave.
rn
!, , .ReH.v, ,,L iP ,11ro,r $b- ''' ',l'
K ?hJ and
,h,rir!,e,,y,,,::;:d',v;,r
mlhi" blltaCloSlV imd ',eennabou,
The New liork and tiueeim Klectrlc
.VSinj" n,' J , , q ? n ut sal.l 1 e
1 ,.OU,", " .mspeil HIS llll it r, mil S.IKI tile
sloner Hayward will have a hearing to
Commission, and next Tuesday Coiumls-
i ..in. wu. ..n n.., ..in- iiiiiiii nuiii
&Tn..
POLICE PASS WIRELESS TESTS.
Klaht Become Itndlo Operator nf
I'lrai i in.s
Chief Inspector Max Schmlttberger
was Informed by ottlclals of the navy
yard yesterday that tluee police lieu-
tenants and five patrolmen had passed
examinations at the training school for
radio Instruction at the navy yard arid
had been awarded certificates conferring
on them the title of commercial radio
operatom of the first eliu.s.
The men are I.leuls. John A. Allen
bach nf the Atlantic avenue station.
Brooklyn; (leorge II, QuarkenboH of
Headquarters, William II Van Keuren
nf the Kast Twenty-second stieet station
and Patrolmen Oeorge Wolf, Kmll
Knpko, (leorge T. Valentine, Michael C.
Morrtey and John F. Murphy,'
ACCUSES COLLEGE TRUSTEES,
Prof.,narr aaya He Waa fllachnrged
After Peace Parade.
DM Moinks, la., July 13, The
board of trustees of Highland Park Col
lege Is accused hy Professor (I, Waller
Barr, assistant tn President Maglll, of
having discharged him because he
marched with college students In the pre
parariness parade of June .1. Barr filed a
3,000 suit lu the District Court to-day,
alleging breach of contiact,
He entered the college us a member of
the faculty on March IK, 1915, at a sal
ary of $3,000 a ysar,
NEW PLAGUE CASES
STIR DR. EMERSON
Extra Measures Taken to
Curh Epidemic That To
tals 1,557 111.
DAY'S DEATHS REACH 2
Famous Doetors Speak
Great Aeolian Hall
Meeting.
at
With the number of children attacked
and dying yesterday from Infantile pa
talysls still aboo the average of last
week, Health Commissioner Haven 12m
eiNun brought additional forces of the
city Into the fight to contiol the spread
"of the disease,
( The special committee of physicians
, ,,, h . thp Mll.or ,, worKtlg
',' ' .... . ,
Nr. l.merson decided jesterday to
keep constant supervision over every
member of a family In which the dlseae
has heen found, with the aim of ascer
taining whether any such persons, while
not afflicted, are carriers of the disease.
Matly physicians 'met last night under
auspices of the Academy of Medicine n
Aeolian Hall, with the aim of spreadlne
; ' " -lentlflo data on the
.disease and the best moans- of fighting It.
Another measure that was. started yes-
. U(1( ln( ,,1P1lB t the Health
... .
"l "l "-i-
ln estlgatlon, htities. a medical pawport
, .uults and children who wlli to go
, i, ,.. ... ,,,i.r '.,,.,, The eer.
tlhVato Is a reasonable atui.ince to
health olllclals of other clllea that the
bearer is tree from the disease and has
not been in contact with It, More than
W atid charitable
ninety such certificates weie issued yes-
oigaulr-ations nli-o are making a thor
ouch ln estimation of the persons and
homes under their charge to see whether
thtrc are any cases of susplcloue Illness
among them.
Killed eo!lan Hall.
The plan of Dr. Haven Kmeison to
haxe a thorough discussion of Infantile
parat)sla by the most able scientists In
the country brought together In Aeolian
Hull last night several lUstluguUhad
ph)s!c!aus as speakers and a thousand
doctors as llrteners. More than f00 lay-
,,,, . a,., , r mfeti. .which be
,.anl(, ..iri!e tlal lt W11, necessary to
miive rrom Academy of Medicine to a
laI(t(,r IUdlng. Aeolian Hall was taxed
to capacity
The chief speaker was Dr Simon
vievnee .lirM.-i,.e ,.r n, n,.,.i.-..f.ii..e In.
mltnte of Research, who told In a highly
interesting manmr. without using many
scientific terms, practically all that Is
known about the disease. In his ad-
as carilers fiom the II; to the healthy.
Dr. George Draper, also of the Rocke-
, feller Institute, followed Or. Flexner. dls.
cussing a special phase of the disease.
Ills subject was "Abortive and Non-
p.iral.itlc Cases. Their Importance and
1 Their Itecogultloii." He said that while
the so-called abortive cases did not de -
Velop paralysis they were none the less
"'"'' i;'se-i of infantile p.ual)sls, as
" 111 1,1 "'" ,lln they soon werV out
spreading the disease?. In many In -
siauces, ne asserieii, tne cases were not
ilLiEiioscd as Infantile naralvsls. He said,
that the germs of the almrtlve t) pe were
Infcvtlve and often caused paralytic
I
llo.plti.1 lle. ord Prove. I'act.
, ai VW Klt)glOM A!1UP Hospital, MrooK- I
''i'''1''1",11' onflned, also supported
mom cases that had oivurred In the
same family. The first cases, he said,
u etc not parol) tic but wete followed
within a few days by paralytic cases.
I'r Acer also spoke of the response
''hlMret. had given to the
treatment in the hospital and he was
' "iHTn
-
"1 "lt
1 . '.... ...,'! ...,..' '. ''.. ''" ... .
' "r '"""l"'"" " Neal. dlaguos-
,,-, ,,,. h;iclerlololl rt the 1 -. .
tlclan and bacteriologist of the Depart-
'". "' ,,f "'-""""
Aids lu the Diagnosis."
I l)r , -""'". Hl'o.iklmj tin "The In.-
, wv.,,. ,.,... ,,, ,,
M.. caVes
his
figures were greater than those given
out fiom day to day by the Department
of Health- -had been discovered.
1 )r Kmerson said that fifteen children
hail been a 111 I c ted with the disease In
-May, hut that their cases were not re-
)irt((1 tn t))i ,,,,!, ixpjirtmeut ut
July. He told of making a visit to a
family where there was a suspected case,
Stopping at the door of the tenement
. house, lie observed a boy with n limp
who led him upstairs. There he met
' another boy with a limp and was told
that the baby, which was 111, was out
in a baby carriage. The Commissioner
said that all three had suffered from
Infantile paralysis without even having
had a doctor's attendance,
Praise for Physician.
"I iv nut to call your attention spe
cially to the self-sacrificing manner In
which doctors have given their entire
tliiio to lighting this epidemic," said Dr
llmersou. "We have physicians working
'.for us now who have lost their entire
practice because patients have learned
"'' '"' doctors were working on In-
railllie iuiuiinin cases, n is up to you
doctors to dlscoutage such an attitude
on the putt of patients."
Dr. Kmerson laid emphasis on the
value of an early diagnosis. He said
that there was no occasion for a panic,
ami said that In the epidemic 'of 1 !07
the public knew nothing about It until
after It was all over. He said that In
no epidemic, had so many measures beep
taken publicly, and so much been done
to warn the people of the danger and
Cnntfmtrd on Fourth Ja,
PRESS
iV. Y. SOLDIERS RAID
CLEVELAND STORES
Take Food nnd 3Iercliandi.se
and Destroy Property
Riot Calls.
CI.F.VEI.AND. July 13, Seven hun
dred New York National Guardsmen
left the Nickel Plate Railroad train this
afternoon when it stowed at the Urn. id-way-Hast
Ninth street depot and raided
stores and commission houses, They
took food and metch.iiidlse and de
stroyed much property. The t run is lie-
longed to the tilxty-nluth. Seventh.
Fourteenth, Twelfth mid Twenty-third
New York Infantry nnd the Flint New
York Field Artillery, all from the me
tropolls, and Troop G, from L'tlca, 'N. V.
Riot calls were turned In, and sipiads
of patrolmen were sent to the exene. The
soldiers were driven hack to the train
by a squad of twenty armed men or
dered out by Major T. J. Moynahan,
commanding the train Some of the sol
diers said tliey had not vsiten in thirty
six hours.
SCHWAB TO SPEND $70,000,000.
Will Develop Rethlohrm Plant and
the .New Nulmldlnrles,
Sot'Tll HrTllt.EUKM, Pa., July in "In
the acquisition of the property, business
and assets of the Pennsylvania Steel
Company and the Maryland Steel Com
pany the Bethlehem Steel Company got
more than It bargained for and has re
ceived a real asset," said lCtsgene F.
Grace, president of the Bethlehem Steel
Company, this afternoon upon his return
with other olllclals from an Inspection
trip of the properties.
"All told," he continued, "Kfl.OIO.nOn
will be spent at the Hloelton, Mil., and
South Bethlehem plants, divided as fol
lows Bethlehem, $.10,000,000 Mary
land, inO.OOO.OOO ; Steeltori, $111,000,000,
We have received an order from the
Russian Government for f.0.000 tons of
seventy pound rails. Had we the facili
ties we could have received a much larger
share of the contract, but with the orders
now on hand wc will be busy until June
15. 1917."
With the new properties the Bethle
hem Steel Company will now have three
rail mills In continuous operation.
WAR A MENACE TO RICKEYS.
Representative Allen Pleads
for
Male nf t'nagrd filn,
Wasiiinoto.v, July 13. The prospect
of a shortage of gin In the United States
caused the House Committee on Ways
and Means to order a report to-day on
the Allen bill setting asldn the existing
law that gin shall be k pt In bond for
at least four) ears before it Is marketed.
Representative Allen (Ohio) explained
that the war has shot off (iermau and
Br. tlsb Importations of gin these conn- counter attack to the northwest of
tries having converted their distilleries I Buoiaez German ttoops drove back Itus
intn munition plants and the ii sup- stalls who had pushed forward. More
ply of Holland Is Inaib quale. If the than prisoners were taken, the t.er
Atnorlcan product Is i ompellcd to stay in man statement savs.
bond for four years the committee! The Austrian version Is that while
agreed there would ! a ureal shortage part of the attacking columns of the
of gin. Also the price of a cot ktall may ! Buss tans collapsed under the AuHrlan
go up. fire, others succeeded In penetrating a
- - - ; si-c'ioii of the Austnali pos'tlon. A
SCnTT.ATJTl WfllvT'T fin T1PV Ispiedy counter attack drove the Itus-
taken, the statement adds.
I.lqnnr nntrol Hoard Drflnrea Pro-
hllilllnn Ik Imprartlcnl.
(Ii.ssonw, July 1.1 Prohibition in
Scotland r Impractical, In the opinion
of the liquor control board. The boarl
) stated this In subtan'e to ,i deputatl. n
' representing many thousands of women
"o sIKIieii a petition urgllic the adop
tlon of prohibition for the period of 'he
rnon, rh.ili ninn of the
' board, said that lt was not poss bl o
' consider pinhlbltlon except ..s applied to
i-iii-i..iii.iiiiru ,.n-.is. i-e
"'e dltllcultles of ontrol In reuard 10
Importation were insuperable
. ,' , ... X.", 'J . . Y mJITJ;
:" . "V. ' .'". ""
States showed that no measuie of pro -
.hlbltloi, could succeed unless appll-d
with the cordial consent of a large m.i-
Mates snoweo tnai no measuie ot pro-
he people affected
j NASH BUYS JEFFERY CO.
(ienernl Vlolors' Henri nld to Have
I'n Id a Hi, non, olio.
Kr.Mistu, Wis, .luh 1:1. -ChaHes W. , "iieless message lece.vfil tiy the Amer- strnctlon. . quipniei.t. labor supply and
Nash, president of the Bulr-k Compuny l( l'"',' 'oniiiilttee from the lied r,..,djustiiient have 1 u solved, "if of.
at Flint, and of Heneral Motors Com- ''loss of lleilin acknowledging the most nC.,ii ,.n,loveis and winkers keep at It
pany, associated with I lllgglnson & ret cut transmission of funds for w itli the same zeal and assiduity as tiny
Co. of Boston, bought to-day the enMre i widows and orphans of the war lu Her- hitherto einplojeil our supplies wiil
stock of the Thomas It. Jeffery Com- ill) The money sent to Berlin Is used soon be overwiielmitiK.
pany here, taking Immediate possession, exclusively for the relief of the widows, ,-annot help thinking that the Im-
Nash will sever his connect Inn with ' nnd orphans made by the war. of whom provetnent in the Itusslan ammunition
Heneral Motors on AiiKiist 1 The capl-. "'ere ate now- more than a million In ),as I u tun. of the greatest and most
tal stock of the Jeffery Company was ' 'he Herman Kmplre. unpleasant surprises the enemy has sui -1.1,
(inn, nan, hut It Is said Hie price paid Following the tecelpt of this radio- tallied. Still our task Is but half accom
Is lii,nrti,iinrt Complete plani will be Brain the tre.mner of the American Be. pushed. Hv.-i) great battle, furnlsh-ft
made public lu Boston next Wednesday. ' Hef Committee, John !. Crlmtnlns, at 13 additional proof that Ihls is a war if
- I'ark Bow, Immediately completed nr-, equipment. More ammunition means
xOT.TlTVR PTTfrTT.TST TfTTTTT)
eT Hampshire Mlllf Ihiiisiii lellm
nf Friendly Hnnt.
CnxTniin. N. II., July l.l.--Johti Hr.int. ! Iralnln (.runts .shooting; License
a private In the militia camp here, was. . ,,
killed to. night while engaged In a "" "elnrn lo lee,
friendly boxing bout with another prl- Voiirni.h. Julv 13- Preoldent Wilson
vale named Poxseo. . vs.-lit not have to pav for a license to
The medical referee derided that death h.....t ir.n.... in vii-ulnin' iiH.il..,.,, f,-
was due to the shook of a blow over the
stomach.
Both men came fiom Ittrlln,
N. II
PARK FOR WOMEN ONLY.
n Chance for siooiiIiih; In it
ti rinse a (II j Pln Krnnud.
Kansas ClTT, Mo, July 13. A pink
exclusively for women was established
by the Kansas City Park Board to-di)
following the plea of a business women s
organization for a reel ration and rest
ground where women can enjoy them
selves unmolested.
A site w as chosen on a high point over
looking the Missouri Itlier. whete tennis
I courts, croquet giouuils ami a "Dii'.h
oven" will bo const! ucted iitui a shelter
house built.
MRS. E. R. THOMAS ROBBED.
IN, lion Necklace and H70II Cash
Taken From Iter In lltiiitrriil,
MoNTIiriA!., July 13. - .Mis, I-;. II,
Thomas id New York was lobbed of a
necklace valued at Jlx.uoil and f "ilt
here to-day
Mrs. Thomas carried the necklace ami
money In a handbag. She reported the
bag was snatched hy a thief after sho
had left her hotel for a stroll.
RUSSIANS ON WAY
TO COUNCIL OF WAR
Hint of rianning for Austria
to Make Terms of
Teaee.
SAY TIME IS NOW RIPE
Germans Muss Artillery
Check Czar's March on
Hovel.
to
I.onpo.v, July It. The departure from
Tetrograd nf the entire Itusslan coun
cil of ministers on their way to Imperial
Field Headquarters ha been the cause
of much speculation In the Busman cap
ital, according to news despatches ar
riving here from Tetrograd.
Only once before since the war began
has a similar extraordinary council been
held. At that time it was devoted to a
consideration of important Internal cofcs
dltlons and created a precedent In Bus
slan history. I'opular opinion ascribes
the present council to the situation In
Austria.
For the second time In the war Austria-Hungary
lias met with a crushing
defeat, and there is a strong feeling In
Influential quarters that If Austria again
throws out feelers for a separate peace
they should tie welcomed by the Allies.
To I'lan Peace Term.
Moreover, for the first time In the war,
riermany Is being hard pressed, und this
gives rlc to the feeling that the l.ntente
Allies must Immediately lay down lines
upon which they will agree as a basis
for discussion of peace terms
The time for each member of the coal
Itlon to seek a common basis for fiituie
action Is believed to be now, otherwise
the (!ermans, the despatches say, will
find the Kntente as unprepared for peace
as they were for war.
ru llcMsllnrr r..n..u-Ai1 Itlu iM;irL- r,n
the right wing of the army of Gen. von
llothmer, whose army Is protecting l.em-i "'-"
Istk from the advancing Biisslans. ac- , 1 '"' owru helming victories won by
e. r.ll., r, ll, It.is.lnn sf.ilemet.t r.'he V.lli.lllt soldlell of itllula haVO
eelved to-day
The fighting took place west and
rthwest of Bnczacr. on the lower
northwest of iinczacx on
Strypa. More than 1,000 prisoners, one
gun and machine guns were taken by
the Busslans.
(iinfllt'l In Beporls.
.. T1:r -v"tri7" nIti (',"";:i.n ',',ount.ot '' " iemiui hh mitia-
the lighting in this district differ. lhe,.h(. om of jMlll uf . ,.llclll,,
I Berlin report MJs that by an encircling
GERMAN NAVAL LOSS GROWS.
llreiidiioiiuhtii Kaiser and Kmn
prln -.link In Jutland Bnttle.
WASiiiMiTti.v. July IS An Admiralty
cablegram to the British Knibassy hefe '"'I "olk ''Ul' " "''''I'd f' r muni
savs iiosltlve nroof has been found that tloi s making.
the two Herman dreadnoughts Kaiser
and Krunprlnr. were sunk ti r tor-
p.(.H ,mB ti. i,atte of Jutland ami
tn i, PV . mV(. ,lrtlleil t(1 tl,
Itclal British list of Herman ships Jo -
.i
j T,(, , : 7)rt ds.
Placement and carried ten twelve Inch
llftv ca 1 ire cuns. The Kronnr nr. car-
. -, ,,.. ,..,, ,r,v..u e.lli.ie
1 , -, .,.i..: V., ,i. .
j " q . Z . TMo.,.
-"r-
I
RADIO THANKS FROM BERLIN.
lied Cross lleepl A pprei-lnllv e of
Mil I'riini t . 4. I'ltlrens.
Ilc.iitfell thanks weie expiessed in a
I
' langeinents to senu to i.ermany a fur-
i ther s.ft of J 10,000.
WILSON CAN HUNT FREE.
I
, xtnricri to no other citizen I'nder a
new law. It Is necessary to secure a
permit nnd pay a fee of $10 In order to
shoot birds or other game.
Mt.'oi olios tn miier Kftnie.
President Wilson was the first person
to apply for a license and he enclosed his
heck for $10 The license was gran "d
j him and lt i number one on the list.
i tie cne.'K tor nn waa reiurneil.
41 U. S. CONSULS SHIFTED.
H,..,,e c.,,,ea xre Made a-.e , ( InM n .ha part7fho nover,w
War Conditions. , nient a verv full resMinse by the workers
W.vsH.MiTON. July 13.-Tran.fers to j to Ida appeal at that time,
new posts of forty-one American con-. I'liinrable Cliiiiigr,"
sills In Kurope and elsewhere were an- , , ,. , ..
iiounced to-day by the State Depart-1 s,,u-'' """V', 1,n 'ln,, Brent and
inenl, the changes being required in . 0,' f''' ,V',,,,V '""ange In thu military
some Instances because of conditions 'situation hns been produced by the al
brought about hv the war. I H' d offensive now In progress. That of-
IMw.uH HlKKltis. consul at Stuttirart.
against whom complaint has beep made
by the Herman ptess because of his al
leged pro-Kiigllsh sentiments. Is trans,
ferred tn Bahla, Brazil, Ueorge N. IfYt.
at St. Pall. Switzerland, succeeds Mr.
Hlgglur. Three other consuls In Her
many and three lu Austria weie as-
signed to new posts
- -
, , ,.
Cessre cirtnnin now pper ilnh in The
New York Kitiunt Poll -DuUr Je.. Sat k-
fi,
VICTORY IS NOW
OURS, DECLARES
LLOYD GEORGE
"Wc Have Grossed the
Watershed," He Says at
War Conference.
"VALIANT RUSSIANS
A TERROR TO FOES"
Premier Asquith Tleads for
Munition Makers to Put
Off Vacations.
London. July 13. David Lloyd
George, Hrltlsh Minister of Wir, pre
siding to-duy nt nn nllled conference)
on equipment, declared that the com
bined offensive of the Allies had
wrenched the Initiative from the Oer
mans, never, ho trusted, to let It re
tirrn, "Wo have crossed the watershed,"
he sold, "nnd now victory In beginning
to flow In our direction. Thh change
Is duo to thi! Improvement In our
cqillpinMlt."
The conference was held at the War
Olllce nnd was participated In hy Al
bert Thomiii, i-'rench Minister of Muni
tions: On, Bcllaoff, Assistant Minister
of War of Itusila; (Jen. A. DaH'ollo,
member of the Million Ministry uf
War, nnd the new British Minister of
Miimtlitis, I'chUn S. Montagu.
"Since our last munitions conferdnce,"
said I.lo.id IJeorKC "theie bus been a
considerable chai.ge lu th" fortunes of
the .Miles. On that date the great
'liamp.iBlie ntfeiisiie In the west had
Just tailed to attain Its objective, nnd
the l-'rench and llrltlsi ntniies had sus
tained heavy loeseH without fhe achieve
ment of any particular son-en, lu the
east the enemy had piessed the gallant
41 1 lilies of Itussla back some hundred
' mll",i and the Balkan had Just been
.-II 111 t It'l llll !llll III" HI" II IS (t HU, U,I,
, '!'" n1''''-'; ir,1'1;';',:1
1 ','. fr.nr," "f .N'T,,m.,y
lili the Immortal
our Indomitable.
l-'veiitii loiniades athl the br.tvu resist
ance of (lie Itallain against overwhelm
ing odds in the soiiihein Als, have
ihangeil the whole complexion of th
landscape.
.,.ii- tt . r,,,, i, I ..IT,ult. tn tl,..
iievt-r. 1 tiust, to reiuin to his grasp.
We have citissed the watt-relit d and no'
victory is beginning to tlw in our di
rection. I'liulpiiieiit I in prtn ea.
Why have our prospe t Imptoved?
The answtr is, the equipment of our ar
mies h.is linptowi! enormously and la
tontlnuiug to luipioic.
"The British navy u.it I recently has
alisoibtd moie than half th" metal worU
eis (f this tountry The tnk of liulld
ng new ships anil repairing the old ones
tot- the gigantic navy and lifting and
equipping them occupies the energies of
a million men. Most of our new fac
to! .es .ire now itnnplete, most of tht
nnuiiliiery has been set up Hundreds
of thousands of ir.cn and women tilth-
''n" unaiciisi.iin.il to iini.ti ami nem
"l.ier itioMh we ate tuning out
hundiftls of gin s .mil howitcis, llht.
medium mil lie ivy our heavy guns :i
rollliii in at a gn-tt late anil we n
ar.
a in
' turning out nearly twice as much amiiiu-
. iilliiiii In :i M.lii'l. w t f 1. 1 uhul Is
, mo,... nc.irly tht.f tlm-s in much heavy
shell-as we find m the gt.-at on.rwlve
In M-litcmi.cr, aiinoiign me ammunition
we exi.eii.leil in that battle was the re
sult of mill) wt-ary weeks nccumula-
I. on.
I'lii-torti-M' (.real Work.
"The new factories and workshops we
sit up have not vet .tttaiiinl nn.-thli it
Hie i full i-.tpantv, but tln-ir output l&
.mw . in te. is. ng w ith gie.it tapldliy. Our
m.ilit ,1 illleiill it-M m , r r:ilil7.'i f f nn
more vb torle and fewer casualties
Iliilldiii Piiaiiineil,
Premier Asquith announced In
the
Hull!.,, nf C.iiiitnons tn.il.iv that the Ciiv.
''""" "t ''-'d decided to ask workers to
rot. go their August holidays beiauso of
the demand formulations lu France,
He expressed conviction that the work-
,nf would ...operate in this plan, so as
to make it plain to Hre.it Britain's foes
" '' ''"' ofli-nsive, In Us pieseit ititen-
sity or iiomn. lunient anu asva,,,,. ou ;i.
If necessary, no coniinue.i in.ieiu neiy.-
, ' " ' n oner h.so o ,onc. o umi ny
i --. , ., ., . . .
T"'1 l'rch..nation He August lu
' ''"V ,wm"' , T. " .
'T'"',1, i'. f. '. 1tr,, :TU": '
hn ail
ment of
all holidays until further and deflnlta
progress of the offenslvu had teen se
cured. The Premier recalled that the Juns
and July holidays had been postponed
lu view of the urgent military require-
. fennve. ne loniinwen, is tuny in Its
he rontlnued,
beginning, and It necessarily requires for
Its success a lOiitlnuoiH supply ot mu
nitions of all kinds.
"From tbn unnm miilevi .1 we have
been .- hie to g-.iuge Hie p.i ni inoiltit neces
sity of nioiillhg tien the slightest risk
oi i esi ij. ...... ... ..i- ..n ... inuiuuuns
In the Meld Not meie y n the weekt
Iniliieillately hemic lis. hut until our oh.
Jective Is a- hleved
t ' , ,, ,,,,,,. ... ,., ,,,, ,,i,. ,,,
"nM" "' ," omminde. n
chief theto must In. no sia genlng lu
