raer* s -r---'1
"Seen on the Side'
A T.-D Editorial Page Feature
?Light, Bright and Unique
?* ?' 1 *' * " ? ^ ? * '
' ?yr- *' ... . ?'? ? ' v
;? ? ?*
v-?/
>? T?
I
f?id|mond CimeS-Bssnafdj
i
Ha spin's Letters
Always on The T.-D. Editorial
Page and Always Interesting
06th YEAR
VOU'MK ??
M M II10 It 11(5
RICHMOND, VA., FRIDAY, JULY 14, 1916. ?TWELVE PAGES
^pagS"13* ?CLOUDY
PRICE, TWO CENTS, ,
NAVAL MONEY BILL
TAKENUPIN SENATE
Calls for Largest Appropriation
by Many Millions in Na
tion's History.
DEBATE OPENED BY SWANSON
That There Will Be No Partisan
Opposition Is Apparent
From Beginning.
Washington. July ia. ??The senate
'? 'J.iy b<>c:in 'discussion of tlie $.'{15,
' naval 1 ? i 1!. the largest naval i
appropriation measure by many mil
'' .4 In the nation's history. and bear
" increases of n<-ail\ *.',<",0'0.000 ovor
I * total as it passed the House.
Senate 1< i'!'rs ?? 111phasi/ed their in
I "!on of expediting its passage.
\n Indication that the Senate is in
? vmpathy with the liberal increases
"r'ttrn into the bill I'V the Senate
aval Committee was seen jit the np
rroval without opposition of a section
?Tennlnr the enlisted strength of the
r.avy from the present 51.000 to CT.Sfirt
? ???? an'! <1,000 apprentice seamen. The
: 'Use 1)111 provided for an inrrc.iK1 to
? lv f.l.ooo n:en
When the personnel sectio'n was
? iched .Senator Norris arked for an
r r'.a nation <>f Its. purpose. Senator
S?;in?on. ! rt c hargo of the measure,
I! that th- section as drafted fol
w e11 the recommendations of th??
.'?'.tvy General Hoard, and would cive
a sufficient personnel to man the
? ?'St battleships and cruisets now in
mission and a .rf| per crnt comple
?nt for vessels in reserve Senator
? i'i?e, ranking Republican member of
' ?? Naval c.,n-.mittee, also declared
* Increase imperative.
V<? I' \ ltTI> \ \ OPPOSITION
M'l'AitrvT i ?it<Mi iii. i \ \ i \ r;
That there would be no partisan up
ition t ? the bill was apparent from
' <? beginning- of tin- debate.
The measure as reported by the Naval
Committee substitutes eight capital
?'l.:ps the coming year for the House's
and specifies completion of the
N.ivy General Board's five-year build
'?g program within three years.
As it passed the House the bill pro
\ de s for five battle cruisers and no
battleships. and contains no provision
for a building policy extending into
th?* future. A program of four battle
ship: and fo-tr battle cruisers for the
coming year, and completion of the
five-year program of >-i\teen capital
| - ips and two ? . ar* earliej- than in
[ ?. nded. v. .is i]t irt< d on by the Serine
I Naval Committee after conferences
v ith .-'erretarv Par:" 's. who vnlrwi the
President's d. r i? ?? ?! t .?..p-tnictmn be
-:-erded as much as p.-ssibb .
, The building program probably will
| )' reached wlthiti a few days, and
hile it will develop the only serious
; <? pposit ion the measure i* expected to
? ??? chanipions ? f the bill believe the
authorization f ? -r KMT. including f r
!?:< idnoughts and f" it- battle cruisers.
? itfrther wtl' the ti ee- vear constrtje.
| ! ? policy, will be .? pj.roved A long
? s '\P" ted in ,-on ft renc? . the
House Itill having provided f"!' only
five m pit a! ships
I llNM'ltl < THIN I'M t? \ IDI.II
in ?.i;\i-;h \i. iiomid
T e :hrec-\c.,r program tails for an
. l * 111 ijre ? i f 5 "?k *?. 1 5 o.-* Tof which
< ! ?"?'?.M' is appropriated for 1M7
N. ?> constrnrt Ion tn 1 r?! 7 would cost
v ? y 7'Jt'/tfici. The House hill called for
? - il r xpendlt lire .?f J2tiP.flO0.O00 is
? '?!:
I'he general be,ard s prnpr.in provides
?? - this construction
Tt-n Dreadnoughts ffnir this v.:ri.
> v baltle cruisers 'four this,year!.
Ten scout cruisers i f'mr this y?-ar>.
I' vo tleet submarines (none this
?r>
Kifty destroyers (ten this year).
Kifty-oicht coast submarines Mwrn.
seven this year).
Three oil fuel ships < none this year).
One repair ship, one hospital ship,
<>i: ?? transport.
Two i|. siroyer tenders nine this
? p;ir).
line fleet submarine tender.
Two ammunition ships (one this
i ear).
Two gunboats lone this year).
The House bill would bring the total
enlisted strength of the navy up to
?'.5,000. but the Senate Committee in
serted a provision to provide for a
peace strength of 71,000. and to give
the President power to recruit the
navy's full strength to rt.ooo in an
emergency.
vw \.\so\ OI'KXS
<;r;.NEi?.Al. dkiiatb
Senator Swanaon. ranking Demoera
t meniber of the Naval Committee,
opened the general debate, declaring
t) ;it to bo safe the United Slates must
??become and remain without question
tin world's second naval power."
"We had as well realize," be said,
??thai all of our rights, the prescrva
t , n of our institutions, the possession
ot our wealth, the enjoyment of our
f.,reign -commerce, the continuation of
i . Monroe Doctrine, and tho owner
I y.i:p of the Panama Canal are depen
' (put upon our own strong arm. mani
| f,<sted and exercised through our navy.
"I-'or this great nation, rich in all
,vnterial wealth and far richer in fu.
lure possibilities, to risk all lo the
; a/.ards of war and lo become the prey
t of weaker nations merely for the lack
' 0f a snflicient naval strength is. to
J ,,i.v mind, the supreme national folly.
"The unjust restrictions that Great
Britain lias Imposed upon our com
merce during tho progress of this war
further 0mphasi7.es to us tho nocoasity
of having a navy large enough to de.
niand and enforce our rights. In nind
commerce, with its varied trade
, ..nipicxilies. the nation that is help
less upon the seas Is tho prey of all
" [(Continuod on Second"Pago.)
>
Armed Men Patrol
Coasts in Concerted
War on Man-Eaters
Terror Seizes Multitudes
Who Have Bathed at
Beaches-?Few Persons
Venture Into Water.
NKW YORK. .1 ii 1 v- 13.?Armed shark,
hunters in motor-boats patrol!?<l the |
New York and New Jersey coasts j
to-'lav. while others lined the beaches.
In a concerted effort to exterminate the
man-eaters which have moved north
from their customary haunts, appar
ently iti large numbers. The village
authorities of Mat a wan, Nt J-, offered
;i reward of ^1^^ for every shark
brought in, dead or alive.
Belief that a single shark was re
sponsible for the killing of four swim
mers in New Jersey waters within the
past two weeks, two of them yesterday
in Ma taw an Creek, a shallow inlet
sixteen miles from the open sea, has
been dispelled by persons who actually
have seen a half-dozen or more of the
monsters line theory is that sharks
which formerly fed on refuse thrown
overboard from the many ocean steam
ships that plied before the war be can
now have, become ravenous. Kvcn
those not ordinarily classed as man
eaters. It is said, probably have been
driven by starvation to lurk in the
waters of the Atlantic coast, warm at
this season, and attack human beings.
Three of the hu^e fishes were seen
to-day in Matawan Creek, and now are
believed to be bottled up there. Nets
hav been stretched under a bridge
about a mile and a half from the
mouth of the inlet to prevent egress
into Karl tan Bay. A British sloop
arriving from Bermuda was reported
to-night to have killed a score of
sharks d'irinc the voyage, one of them
off the New Jersey coast.
< o>ii?\ratiyei.v few persons
now vKvri.ui: into watf.r
Terror has seized the multitudes who
have bathed at beaches along the New
York and New Jersey coasts, and com
paratively few persons now venture
into the water. At Asburv Park and
other New Jersey resorts wire nets
have been strung around The bathing
areas.
Dr. George G. Reynolds, of Matawan,
: who attended Stanley Fisher, who was
so seriously manub-.l In a battle with
; a shark yesterday that he died a few
hours late performed an autopsy on
Fisher's body to-day. He declared tha'
the flesh torn by the man-eater's toeth
wa> impregnated wi'.h a peculiar pois
onous liquid which seemed to have
d< adenine effect on the nerves and
tnusele?= This probably explained, he
said, why Fisher apparently had little
sensation of pain when the shark took
off his leg:.
Little hope is entertained for the
i recovery of the body of twelve-year
old I.ester Stillwell, the other victim
I yesterday It is believed that he wan
devoured by the shark, as persistent
dragging ?f th** inlet and dynamiting
'of the waters have failed to bring up
the body
Conflicting reports were received
here during the day from various
points along the Now York and New
Jersey coasts regarding the. killing of
sharks, bn: only one appears to have
had any foundation in fact- This was
ihe nev. s brouzht by Anthony Eundy.
: captain "f a llsliing boat, who said his
party ?f New York fishermen had
clubbed t" death a nine-foot shark,
weighing ??->(* pounds, while cruising
yesterday off Elberon. N J.
IIMIKIIMW VAIM.Y Til IKS
TO KIM. MIA IIK WITH OA II
A fisherman reported to-night t h a?
he had vainly tried to kill with an
oar a seven-foot shark which became
: entangled m his nets. He said the
l fish tried to strike his boat.
i "The surprising .thing about the re
t rent shark ravages," said T?r. C. If.
1 Townsend. director of the aquarium
I here to-day. "is that we have never
had serious trouble with them befor^.
Every year, about the middle of June,
these big fish that arc so dangerous
around Cuba and the West Indies, move
north with the warm weather, and
stay till the middle of September, but
I they never before have attacked human
| beings.
1 "Sharks in these waters are of eigh
teen to twenty different kinds. Of
these only half a dozen are dangerous,
the white, dusky, blue, mackerel and
tiger being the worst. They run from
ten to fifteen feet, and arc the only
; kinds which have both the courage and
the jaws and teeth to he dangerous.
Whether the sharks which have been
causing such trouble on the Jersey
coast are a new kind or simply a few
'bad* ones which have tasteel flesh be
fore. it is impossible to say. Danger
from them, however, is always present."
FISHERMEN AND BATHERS
CAUTIONED TO USE CARE
WASHINGTON, July 13.?Indications
that there may be large schools of
sharks in unaccustomed waters along
the Atlantic coast brought a warning
from the Bureau of Fisheries to-day
cautioning fishermen and bathers to
use the greatest care in boating and
swim ming.
Records of the. bureau show that
until this year thc.rc have been no
sharks in the waters, where during the.
last few weeks they have claimed sev
eral victims. Bureau officials believe
a lack of food may have brought them
to the Northern Atlantic coast in great
numbers.
WASHINGTON AND RETURN, $2.00
' from Iticlnii'Hid. Second Kilucatlnnal Kx
i rtirsien. Tickets good only on special train
! leaving Sharer and Uroud Street* S:30 A.
I M. .Saturday, July 15. and rnturnlnc, leavo
' Washington 8 P. AL ?axu? datc^r-Adv.
Searchlights on Hills
Overlooking Mexico
i-:a<;i.f. i'\hv? July in?
.Military iiulliorlt Icm to-day placed
powerful srii rt'liliKli 11 on lillltopn
I iinil other viinliiKr poltitn nrur the
I Mexican border here. 'I'Iicup will
iiinKr It prncf lenll.r ImpoMnlhlr for
nny nillltiirv iicilvll.T to be i'on
durtrd nnir tli^ border under cover
of durknrfcH.
A Crtilnloml of llfty-four motor
truck* v\frr rriTltpil i?t ?hc military
rnrampmrnt to-ilny.
expehYs warn" tcisT
PANIC over EPIDEMIC
Toll of Progress .Made l?y Medical
Srirnre in Combating Infan
tile Paralysis.
i XO KPOCII-M.\KIX(* DISCOVKRLKS
Xew York Health Commissioner De
clares Widespread Alarm Is Xot
Justified?Dr. Flexner Explains
.Methods of Fight on Plague.
. "K\\ ^ ORK, July | :j. ? Loaders in the
medical profession, public health ex
perts from many cities. philanthropists
and charity workers thronged the
rooms of the. Academy of Medicine
to-night to attend a mass-meeting
for ihe discussion of infantile paraly
~'s. *^e plague which has brought death
into hundreds of homes here in ihu
past few weeks.
Those who hoped that a cure for
:h" disease would he heralded, or that
isolation of its deadly germ would bo
announced, were disappointed. Dr.
Simon Flexner, of the Rockefeller in
stitution for Medical Research, and
other experts told of the progress made
by medical science In combating the
-Ji-ease, but they had n.> epoch-making
discoveries to proclaim. lie declared,
however, that there is no occasion for
panic, and that the death rate from
! infantile paralysis is lower even than
j from other maladies considere ? fur less
? serious*.
. Dr. fr. Kmerson, health commissioner
of this city, told what is being done
to ficht .he epidemic, and asserted that
the widespread alarm was not jus
tified.
That infantile paralysis is neither so
uncertain in origin nor so fatal or per
manent in effe. i generally supposed,
was the assertion made by I?. Simon
Flexner, of the Rockefeller Institute,
In a paper read at a mass-meeting: of
' physicians here to-night. While the.
I death rate has varied from f? to 20
per cent, this figure is not accurate, as
only a small number Qf ??ases .ire ac
tually reported, I'r. Flexner said. Many
j of those most seriously afllicted even
itually mak<- complete recoveries.
iilmav nniMi niMsi;i.r
is i-hikf co>vi:vi:r
The origin of the disease is in the
secretions of the nose, throat and in
testines. The chief conveyer is the
human beins himself. Dr. Flexner said,
j whether consciousl> afflicted or not.
Flies are known tn have carried the
infection in s-viie cases, and poultry,
pigs, dogs and ats are suspected. The
chief means of dissemination are kiss
ing. sneezing aru) coughing. Verv
many capes ;ilso have been transmitted
by mothers caring for t lie noses and
throats of their children, and then car
rying the virus either to the other chil
dren or to their food, the expert de
clared.
Protection can In* best gained
through the isolation of the disease,
even in the earlier stages, and the sani
tary control of those coming in con
; tact with it. At present, there is no
safe method of preventive inoculation,
i though experiments are being made
with the transfusion of blood from a
person already made immune by hav
ing had the disea.-e, or l?y the use of
! subeffective doses of the virus itself.
| Nor is there as yet any practicable
: method of specific treatment. Itecov
i cry is accomplished slowly by a pro
I cess of immunization.
j 51A V 1)10 (ilUJATI.V HEI.IKVKI)
in si'itahi<io tim:atmk.\t
The extent, to which recoveries may
occur is very great, Dr. Flexner said.
In many cases the residue of paralysis
may be so small as not seriously to
hamper the life activities of the suf
ferer. In others it may be greatly re
lieved by suitablo orthopedic treatment.
What Is imperative. Dr. Flexner as
serted, is to r<member that recovery
is a process extending over a long
period of tune, perhaps even years,
and that only a very small proportion
of those attacked are left severely and
helplessly crippled. The extent of
susceptibility to the disease is rela
tively small. It is lower that in
measles, scarlet fever or diphtheria.
The present outbreak is not extraordi
nary, i lie expert pointed out. for not
since the disease first appeared In 1!>07
has the country been entirely free
from it.
During the twenty-four hours pre
ceding I" o'clock this morning twenty
four children died from the plague,
and there were 117 new cases in tho
greater city.
Since the beginning of tho epidemic,
on June 2(5, t,557 children have heet?
stricken with the disease, and them
have been .111 deaths, or a mortality
of more than per cent.
The New J.Mse.v State Health De
partment last night reported tho total
number of cases in tho Stato as sixty,
(Contlnuod. on Third-Page!) '
MAIN DIFFICULTIES j
OF ALLIES SOLVED
Lloyd George Says Initiative Is
Wrenched From Germans by
Combined Offensive.
MEANS BEGINNING OF VICTORY
Improved Equipment of Armies
Is Reason for Brighter Change
in Prospects.
t.o.vno.v. .Inly 13?I >;t vi?l Uoyd
G(*or(;p, British Minister of War, pre
sidinc to-day at an entente allied con
fTcnffi on ptpiipmont. declared tliat
tho combined offensive of the allies
had wrenched the initiative from tho
Clermans. never, he trusted, to return.
| "\V<- have crossed the watershed,"
he said, "and now victory is beginning
to flow iti onr direction. This change
I is due to the improvement itt OUT
equipment."
The conference was held ;<t the War
C iffice.
".Since our last munitions confer
ence." said TJoyiJ George, "there, has
' been a considerable i hangc in the for
i tunes of the allies On that, date the
great Champagne offensive in the west
had just failed to attain its objective,
and the French and British armies
had sustained heavy losses without the
accomplishment of any particular suc
'cess.
"In the east the enemy had pressed
the gallant armies of Russia back some
hundred miles, and the Balkans had
Just, been overrun by the central
powers.
riCToniKV niAMii: whom?
COMPLEXION OI-* l-AXOSCAI'E
"The overwhelming victories won by
the valiant soldiers of Russia have
struck terror into the hearts of our
foes, and these, coupled with the im
mortal defense of Verdun by our in
domitable French comrades, and the
brave resistance of the Italians against
overwhelming odds in the southern
Alps, have < hanged the whole com
plexion of the landsc ape.
"Now the combined offensive in the
east and west has wrenched the
initiative out of the hands of the
enemy?never. I trust, to return to his
grasp. We have crossed the water
shed. and now victory is beginning to
flow in our direction.
"Why have our prospects Improved?
The answer is, the. equipment of our
armies has improved enormously, and
is continuing to improve.
"The British navy until recently has
absorbed more than half the metal
! workers of this country. The task of
building new ships and repairing the
old ones for the gigantic navy and
fitting and equipping them, occupies
the energies of a million men. Most
of our new factories now are com
plete; most of the machinery has been
set up. Hundreds of thousands of
men and women, hitherto unaccus
tomed to metal and chemical work,
have been trained for munitions
making.
SI l?l?MKS \N IM. SOO.V
IIK <>\ Kit \\ II K!,.M!\<;
"IS very month we arc turning out
I hundreds of guns and howitzers, light,
medium and heavy. Our heavy suns
: a re rolling in at a great rate. and we
?are turning out nearly twice as much
ammunition in a single week?and.
what is more, nearly three times as
much heavy shell?as we fired for the
yroat offensive in September, although
the ammunition we expended in that
battle was the result of many weary
weeks' aO' uniul.ition. The new fac
tories itul workshops ur set up have
not yet attained one-third their full
?capacity, but their output is now in
creasing with great rapidity. Our
jtnain difficulties in organization, con
j struction. equipment, labor supply and
readjustment have been solved. If
! officials, employers and workmen keep
: at it witjj the same zeal and assiduity
las they have, hitherto employed, our
supplies will soon be overwhelming,
j "I cannot help thinking that the im
J provement in the Russian ammunition
; has been one of the greatest and most
; unpleasant surprises the enemy has
j sustained Still our task is but half
accomplished. Kvcry great battle fur
nishes additional proof that this is a
! war of equipment. More ammunition
| means more victories."
\s?n i i ll asks mokkkks to
KOIIK<?(? Al (il ST IIOl.lOA VS
1 1,OXDOX. July 1?Tho entente allied
offonsivc on the western front is only
in its beginning, declared Premier
| Asquith to-day in announcing in tho
House of Commons that the govern
ment had decided to ask workers to
forego their August holidays because
of the demand for munitions in France,
lie expressed conviction that the work
' men would co-operate in this plan, so
as to make it plain to tlreat Britain's
( foes that the offensive, in its present
: intensity of bombardment and assault,
would, if necessary, be "continued in
definitely." The Premier also an
nounced that by royal proclamation
the bank holidays would he postponed
in August.
"Tho offensive," he said, "is only in
its beginning, and it necessarily re
quires for its success a continuous
supply of munitions of all kinds. From
tho success achieved, we. have been
able to gauge the paramount necessity
of avoiding even the slightest risk of
restriction of the use of munitions in
the field, not merely in the weeks im
mediately before us, but until our ob
jective is achieved. In the opinion of
the commander-in-chief, there must bo
no slackening in the output, even for
a moment. I. therefore, appeal to the
patriotism of the workers and tho pub
lic generally to again postpone their
| holidays, in order that the attack, so
brilliantly begun. can he carried
( through to a triumphant conclusion."
j HOTEL. RCROliK IIOOF TO-MOHT.
I Dinner-supper, music, danclnr, 6;JO t? 12.
rrAflf,
VIOLENT FIGHTING
FOR TOWN OF KOVEL
Catching blue-nose sliack at Bcnch Haven, X. <!., where shark killed
man last week. The blue-nose shark shown in the photograph was rap
tured and killed on July 8 by !?>. l'\ Warner and Herbert Suvage at Beach
Haven, X. ?!., where a shark, supposedly of the same specics, killed a man
swimming. It took thirty-five minutes to bring this shark near enough to
the beach, where Mr. Warner shot him. |
INJUNCTION OF SECflECV
IS II81W BOARD
Did .Not Desire Any Publicity in
Itegnrd to Kasley
CI i urges.
GAVE HIM THItKG DAYS' NOTICE
Then Suniinarily Removed Examiner
of Records at Ivvecut ive Session,
Making \o Statement or Expla
nation?May .Meet To-.Morrow.
"The hoard does not expect to Rive
publicity to this matter, and does not '<
desire that publicity lie pivcn to the
matter l>y you or anybody else."
This was the remarkable injunction,
it was learned yesterday, that was
: conveyed to James S. Kaslev. deposed
examiner of records of the Sixth C'ir
ji?'tiit. in a letter addressed to him by
Kxectit i ve Assistant flameit, of tlie
? State. Ta\ Board, advising him for the
: first time of the charges preferred
against him hv Attorney Benjamin
Wat kins Leich. ..f Houston. Tlie
w ??ruing- was included at tlie instance
of the Tax Board. which met for the
| consideration .if n>r .barges on July
I. and the letter went forward to Mr.
Kasley tlie sanif day
According m Mr heigh, tho charges
were filed with tlie tlire^ members of
the Tax Board individually some time
in May. The document containing tho
j charges was undated and unsicned.
< ?n the otjtside cover was rubber
stamped the date. "May 2?>, 131?." pre
I suiuably the charges were tiled <?n that
' date.
Singularly enough. Executive Assist
ant Oarnett was not informed by any
member of the Tax Hoard of the filing
of the charges. According to a state
| mcnt made by him yesterday, ho
I learned of them for the first time on
j .fitly 1, when they were first laid he
| tor tho board as a body. At that meet
\ itig tho board instructed Mr. Oarnett
I to notify Mr. Easley, who was informed
! that tlie board would meet on .July ti. to
| hear the parties at interest, and that,
' while counsel would not he permitted,
, Mr. Easley and Mr. Leigh would be
expected to be present.
HAD TIIKKI-; |)\YS IN \\ 111(11
?I'D ritHI'Alli; Ills DKKi;\SK
Mr. Oa met I'm letter informing Mr.
Easley that ho was charged with
I dereliction of duty and inclosing a
|copy of the charges, reached the ex
! an liner od .luly Sunday. It was not.
until the following day that ho could
j begin the preparation of a defense,
j <?n Thursday, July ti. the board hold
I its jiow famous inquisition, remaining
| in session behind closed doors for sev
eral hours. The Capitol swarmed with
Senators and Delegates from the Sixth
j Circuit, all marshaled to bring their
, influence to bear in support of the rival
candidacy of Tucker <Wat kins, Jr.,
' of South Boston.
At the conclusion of this hearing it
I was announced that another meeting
, would be held by the board on the fol
j lowing day. Mr. Easley, ? onformlng to
I tho Tax Board's injunction that it
| "does not expect to Kive publicity to
; this matter," declined at the conclusion
, Of the meeting on July ti to discuss what
(had transpired before it or to make
| any statement in his own behalf,
| although he was informed that a
j h ngth.v statement had been released
j for publication l>v the W.ukins forces.
| Kxecutive Assistant Garnott and Sec
rotary C. Leo -Moore, of tho Tax Board,
declined to givo out any Information
regarding tho hearing.
TAX iio a it d <;a v k \o
It i: A.SON rolt ITS At TIO \
Oil tho lollowitiK day?July V?the
lax Board held a brief meeting and
.(CoattauotiToir F1 fuT ~P&g o," I
Colonel Stlmson Telegraphs Senator
Martin Rumor Is Without
Foundation.
COMPLAINTS NOT JUSTIFIED
Newspaper Articles From Kastern
Section of State on Conditions at
Camp Stuart Characterized as "Ab
solutely Groundless."
Reports were current in Richmond
yesterday, and were later received in
Washington, to the effect that the War
Department was about to demobilize
the Richmond Blues and the First
Battalion Virginia Field Artillery.
Senator Martin at once communicated
with the War Department, and was
informed that nothing was known of
the matter there, lie was told, how
ever. that General l.eonard Wood,
commanding the Department of the
Fast, would he advised if any such
plan was contemplated. The Senator
thereupon telegraphed to Ceneral
Wood, and late yesterday afternoon
: received the following reply from Col
j one! Stimson:
"Referring t?> yours of July I", to
; General Wood, no knowledge h*'re ??f
any plan to demobilize the Richmond
Blues and First Battalion. Virginia
Field Artillery."
Complaints made against the admin
istration and sanitation of ramp Stuart
by Norfolk and Portsmouth newspapers
are characterized as absolutely ground
less by State military officers, in tho
light of tho reports of United States
Army officers who have inspected the
camp.
OFFICIAL H KIMHtTS
HKFITI5 Al-I. tllAHCKN
Within the last few days several at
tacks have been printed in papers of
the eastern part of the State which
accuse camp officers <>f persecution,
needless delay, lack of personal care
for their men and other maladministra
tion. It is thought that the reports
were started by irresponsible gossips,
unconlirmcd from authoritative sources.
Answers to the charges are numer
ous. The report of Major Johnson,
United States Army inspector, to the
Department of the Fast was very com
plimentary to the camp and to the
officers of the Virginia militia. Major
Johnson stated that the troops of this
State were ahead of those of any other
Southern State, and t">t inferior to
those of th' more abundantly provided
for Northern States. Colonel Stark,
the physical inspector from Fortress
Monroe, stated that he had never seen
a liner body of men.
Although sanitary conditions at the
very first, were not <?f the best, they
i have been made so by the steady work
| of the city authorities, aided by of
tieers ?.f tho camp. The fact that there
has been practically no serious sick
ness and very little of a minor nature,
is proof that both food and location
? havo been healthy.
POKTSMOI "I'll fOMPl.A I IN S
AltOt T l.ltmi's tl.\TTi:il\
The burden of the Portsmouth com
plaint xv.ts over the failure of the
, Crimes Battery to pass the inspection
1 for mustering into the Federal servi< ??
! "Of the 117 men ? ho entrained here
' for active service, in behalf of tin :i
[country, only twenty-live remain at
; Richmond," says the account in the
j Portsmouth Star. "Those men have
j been going barefooted, without cloth
j ing and without a second change of
! underwear. Requests for the necessi
j ties of life have been met by cou
I temptnous references lo the personnel
, of the battery. So there is no mere
j Crimes Battery. An artillery company
' '(ConUauc'iV on SccouciTPaso.),
IS RICH PRIZE OF
STOKHOD BATTLES
Advance of Russians Appar
ently Is Temporarily
Halted.
BOTH SIDES BRING UP
HUGE RE-ENFORCEMENTS
Brussiloff's Blows Being Contin
ued Without Lull or
Hesitation.
NKW ONSLAUGHTS AT VKRDl'.V
Germans .Make Slight Gain, but Con
fidence of French Is Not
Lessened.
The most violent lighting tn the
great entente allied offensive is on the
eastern front, where General Brussil
off's tremendous blows are being con
tinued without apparent lull or hesita
tion. Temporarily, at least, the Aus
tro-Germa n forces appear to have
baited the Russian advance along the
Stokhod. Both sides are reported to.
be hurling huge re-enforcements of
men and suns into this titanic struggle,
the prize of which is the immensely
important strategic town of Kovel.
Further to the south a battle of
almost equal intensity is raging on the
lower Stripa. where the Russians are
striking north in an effort to crush
General von Ltothmer and flank the
entire Austro-Gertnan line. The Aus
trians admit that the Russians pene
trated Von Bothmer's front at some
points, but assert they were driven out
again in counterattacks. The Russians
claim to have taken "_\0rt0 prisoners, but
make no mention of a gain in terri
tory.
The British have held their gains
on their portion of the Somme front,
and the usual period of consolidation
and the pushiuc forward of the big
artillery is presumed to be taking place.
A similar situation exists on tho
French line, and a remarkably brief
French ollicial statement simply records
the continuance of the bombardment at
Fort Souvillc, in the Verdun region.
\
SIX GltKAT ItlSSlAX Aim IKS
i-:x<;a<;i:d ai.aixst tkutoxs
LONDON", July 13.?The recovery of
the Russian armies since their defeats
of last year and tho apparently inex
haustible supplies of guns and ammu
nition with which they are provided,
continues to be a source of wonder to
military writers. At least six great
armies are engaged against the Aus
trian* and Germans on Russia's western
front. All of them are usinc great
J quantities of ammunition, even those
not definitely on tho offensive.
The forces under Grand Duke N'ich
[ olas in Armenia and Persia have been
! lighting vigorously against the Turks
I for months. A feu- weeks ago parts
of these forces, particularly those west
of Erzerum. were compelled to fall
| ba<~k in the face of a stronger Turk
I tsh army. Karly tin; week the grand
[ duke resumed the offensive and recap
tured Mamakhatum. fifty miles west of
i Krzerum, so that tho Turks have fallen
hack some twenty-five miles from the
1 farthest point reached in their counter
offensive.
Meanwhile, tho armies directly south
of the J-'insk marches are lighting a
| pitched battle with the Austro-German
forces of General von Linsingen along
the line of tho Stokhod River. It
1 probably will be some days before tho
decision is reached, as the Teutons
have brought up very strong re
onfojcements in the hope of retaining
possession of Kovel. loss of which
would necessitate a regrouping over a
' long stretch of the front.
km.ktim; w rrii \ it'l li.i.kit %
NORTH OF I'l \ >l\ MAIOHF.S
North of the F'insk marshes the light
ing at present is largely with artillery.
In Galicia the Russian armies are re
forming for continuation of the. offctl
si\ e.
In the west the renewed efforts of
tho German frown Prince, at Verdun
temporarily arc taking procedendo 111
the puldi ? mind over the battle of tho
Soinmc The attack uist delivered by
the Germans before Verdun is the sev
enth great onslaught with dense
masses of troops since the. operations
began, sonic live months ago Tho
I Germans have made a slight gain, but
apparently this lias not lessened tho
confidence of the l-'f ;.ch in their
ability 'o hold fast They still have
three solid lines of defense which must
be penetrated before the German ob
jective can be gained.
The r.ritish arc still engaged In
(-tearing the Germans from fortified
positions which must be taken before
tin general offensive an be renewed.
NO I \F \.\ I'lt \ FII.IITIM.
ON \ t:II 1)1 X FIIONT
l-*.\i:iS. ,lul> 13.?"There was no in
fantry lighting of importance last
night on the Verdun tront or over the
' portion of the Sommc front held by the
French." to-day's ollicial report says.
Intermittent artillery engagements oc
] curred in the Somme sector, fn tho
' vicinity of Souville, i?henoln and
l.aufcc, before Verdun, a heavv bein
bardment was maintained by the Gar
, mans.
I in tbo Champagne tho French pen??-<
tratad a. aalioat ot tho Uon6
