ARIZONA REPXJB;
AN INDEPENDENT PROGRESSIVE JOURNAL
CAN
TWENTY-SEVENTn YEAR
10 PAGES
PHOENIX, ARIZONA, PKIDAY MORNING, JULY 14, 1916
10 PAGES
VOL. XXVII, NO. 57
THE
fflfflroAi'RRirc
EifADDIlK! ABIT
TAWC OFFENSIVE
FIGHTING NOW IS MOST
VIOLENT BETWEEN THE
RUSS AND AUSTRIANS
(By Republican Associated Press Leased Wire)
The most violent fighting in the great entente allied offensive is on the
eastern front where General Brusiloff's tremendous blows are being con
tinued without apparent lull or hesitation. Temporarily at least, the Austro
Germans appear to have halted the Russian advance along the Stokhod.
Both tides are reported to be hurling huge reinforcements of men and guns
into this titanic struggle, the prize of which is the immensely important
strategic town of Kovel.
Farther to the south a battle of almost equal intensity is raging on the
lower Stripa, where the Russians are striking north in an effort to crush
Ceneral Von Bothmer and flank the entire Austro-German line.
The Austrians admit that the Russians penetrated Von Bothmer's front
at some points but assert they were driven out again in counter attacks.
The Russians claim to have taken 2,C00 prisoners but make no mention of a
gain in territory.
The British have held their gains on their portion of the Somme front
and the usual period of construction anl the pushing forward of the big ar
tillery is presumed to be taking place. A similar situation exists on the
French line and a remarkably brief French official statement of Thursday
night simply records tho continuance of the bombardment at Fort Souville,
in the Verdun region.
Two important statements in regard to the situation on the western
front were made in London on Thursday. Premier Asquith, speaking in the
House of Commons, declared that the British supply of munitions was am
ple and that the Franco-British offensive was merely at its beginning.
Demobilization Does Not -Mean War Scare Over
VONB
ERNSTORFF VISITS THE DEDTSCHLAND IS
GERMAN AMBASSADOR SPENDS
111! ABOARD GRAFT THAI
. IDEF10US U1EDSEA TRIP
MRS. HEARST PROTESTS
AT RANCH SIEZURE
-G
TO PREVENT VIOLATION
, OF NEUTRALITY LAWS
British Maintain
Their Pressure
On the Germans
Initiative Taken
From Germans
Never to Return
' Republican A. P. Leased Wire
LONDON July 13. Tlu-re was very
little news today (if the "battle of
Europe" a term commonly aplicd to
describe the new co-ordinated entente
allied offensive on all fronts. But
the British official statement tonight
shows that heavy infantry and ar
tillery fighting has been in progress
and has enabled the British to main
tain their pressure on the Germans
and advance their line at various
points.
The British forces at Mametz wood
are within 309 yards of tli- Hcrmnn
necnnd line. The French forces are
setat3tt"1 only by the narrow Somme
valley from the German third line
through Pernnne and Mont St. Quen
tin and both armies are doubtless
pnaaard in preparations for the next
attacks.
A conference of the munitions min
isters ot the four entente allies held
In London and presided over by the
British war minister. David Lloyd
-rr.. ul,,,u V,..t cr'.u.lil'A .Inn. re
being taken to insure munitions end I fortunes of the
I WASHINGTON. July IS. State
department officials said today
I that while it would be impossible !
I to prevent dissemination of news
i regarding; the time of the Deutsch- j
I land's departure on her return trip,
i all possible steps would be taken
j to prevent violation of neutrality
I laws which might be of benefit
to the enemy's ships.
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
LONDON, July IS. David Lloyd
George. Riilish minister of war, pre
siding today at an entente allied con
ference on epiinment, circlurjd tli.it
the? combined offensive of the allies
had wrenched the initiative from the
Germans, neer, he trusted, to re
turn "We hale - crossed the watershed,"
he said, "and nov victory is besir.
ninsc to fp-.w in our direction. This
change i due to the improvement in
our equipmtnt,"
The confcre-i e wis helj at the war
office a.nd was participated in by
AlV'rt Thomas, French minister of
mnniiioi.s: Genera! Heliaeff, assist
ant minister of war of Russia, Gen
eral A. Oall-olio, member of the Ital
ian minirtry of war, anil ,the new j
British minister of munitions. Edwin I
S. Montague. I
Since our lai't mm-mon1-' confer
ence." s.iii" Mr. Lloyd George, "there
has been a considerable chnnre in the
allies. On that date
their proper dif position. Major Mo- the great Champagne offensive in the
rant, in tv.e Berliner Taecblatt. ex- I wet had .lust failed to attain its ob
presses the opinion that the coming j' ctive ana the French and British
days will be decisive of the issue of jaimics had sui-taincd neavy looses
the whole war. without the achievement f any par-
The reticence of the Russian official ticular success. In the east, the en
communications at the present mo- emv had pressed the gallant advance
ment, judging by precedent, indicate ! of Russia backward,
the progress of some Important move- j "The overwhelming victories won
ment which only will be announced j by the valiant soldier- of Rusia. have
when the operations are concluded. I struck terror into the hearts of our
The Austrian and German reports i fos and these, coupled with the im
how that General von Bothmer is j rm rta1 defense of Verdun by our
French comrnlcs. and the brave re
sistance of the I'alians r gainst over
whelming odds' ir the southern Alps,
have changed the whole complexion of
he landscape.
"Now. the combined offensive in the
LASTARGUINT
COIINCTOI
IN ORPET CASE
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
WAUKKGAN 111., July, 13. The last '
argument of counsel In the case of j
William H. Orpet, charged with the
murder of .Marion Lamheit, will be be- '
gun tomorrow and by Saturday night
it is the intention to have the case in
the hands of the Jury.
The culminating effort of the de
fense in behalf of the young collegian
was begun this afternoon by James II. j
Wilkerson, chief of his counsel, and
w hen he concludes tomorrow the last ;
word for the defense will have been
spoken. In all, six lawyers will have'
been heard. ;
Ml-. Wilkerson's remarks to the jury
today covered old ground in a new
way. Mis theme was that the pre
sumption of innocence which the law .
grants every defendant until he is
proven guilty makes clear and inno- '
'cent every detail of the evidence luncheon at the Gertnania Club, given
j urged against the defendant. in honor of Captain Koenig. Tonight
1 "The cornerstone of the case of the he was present at a dinner given by
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
BALTIMORE, July lj. Count Von
Bernstorff, the German ambassador,,
spent an hour aboard the German sub
marine merchantman Deutschland to
day. He inspected the vessel from stem
to Btern, had the intricate machinery
and instruments aboard explained to
him and personally congratulated Cap
tain Koenig upon bringing his vessel
safely to America through waters in
fested with hostile war craft.
Two attaches of the German embassy,
the German and Austrian counsels in
Baltimore, and Mayor l'reston accom
panied the ambassador on his visit to
the submarine. The Intense heat in
side the hull of the vessel, generated by
sun-rays beating upon the deck and
sides, prevented the party from remain
ing ab'jard longer than an hour.
The ambassador informed Captain
Keening that he. would Bend to him he
fore the Leutschland starts on her re
turn voyage several packets of official
papers which he desires to have de- !
livered intact to the Berlin foreign
office. Some of these documents em
bassy officials have been reluctant to
trust in the regular mails because it
was considered likely they would fall
into the hands of British censors.
The ambassador was enthusiastic as
he emerged from the conning tower of
the Deutschland. v
"It is a wonderful boat and with as
courageous a crew as ever sailed the
sea, has made a wonderful voyage,"
said he. "I climbed up and down every
hatchway, looked into every compart
ment and had my first experience with
a periscope.
"Captain Koenig did not tell me just
when he exacts to leave for Germany,
but I presume it will be soon after he
has return cargo aboard. He is In
complete charge of the vessel and has
his orders from Berlin. His craft is a
private one; just as much so as any
North German Lloyd liner. My visit
was entirely unofficial."
The ambassador arrived in Baltimore
this afternoon from New York. Prior
to visiting the submarine he attended
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
SAN FRANCISCO, July 13. Mrs.
I'hoebe A. Hoarst, owner of the Ha
cienda de Babicora, the ranch re
ported to have been seized by the de
facto government of Mexico, tele
graphed tonight to Robert Lansing,
secretary of state, protesting against
what she declared to be "an unlawful
act."
The telegram in part said:
"San Francisco newspapers contain
tho report that the de facto govern
ment of Mexico has taken Possession
if tle rin.iiorlv in the utute tt Chi.
huahua known as the Hacienda de
Babicora. The title of the property
is in the name of the Babicora De
velopment company, an American cor
poration, the stock of which belongs
to me.
3
"The reason assigned for this ac
tion by the de facto government is
that the Babicora Development com
pany has sold cattle and supplies to
tie United States authorities to pro
ision and help the military forces of
the Fnited States.
"I vigorously protest against this
unlawful action on the part of the
da facto government and I appeal to
you to inaugurate immediately an in
quiry to ascertain the tacts regarding
the alleged appropriation of the com
pany's property
"As a citizen of the Fnited States,
I suggest to you that it is the duty
of this government to take measures
to prevent the de facto government
pf the republic of Mexico from dfs
regarding and over-riding the rights
of American citizens who own prop
erty in the republic of Mexico"
FORAGE SENT LARGEST NAVAL
TO PERSHING Bill DISCUSSED
A V I M B S I
HLLU U
Bf THE SENATE
still holding on in the reeion of Ter
nopol, although the two wings, of the
Russian advance are forty miles be
yond Tarnopol, -vhirh seems to slnw
that von Bothmer feels secure in his
line of retreat. Heavy fighting con
(Continued on Page Three
(Continued on Page Three)
NOT GOOD CITIZENS UNLESS
. IIUFD ITU AMERICANISM
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
HASHING TON, July 1.1.
WASHINGTON, July 13. 'resident
Wilson in an address here today again
denounced as disloyal those foreign
born citizens who "draw apart in spirit
and organization to seek some special
object of their own," and added a
warning to native Americans that they
cannot teach good citizenship unless
they themselves are imbued with the
principle!; of Americansim.
The president spoke before a meet
ing of those interested in the educa
tion of aliens, being held under the
auspices of the Naturalization Bureau.
He dwelt at length on the problem of
instructing new citizens, but declared
that after all the prime necessity in
such instruction was a realization of
the significance of American traditions
on the part of the instructors.
"Unless we are true Americans," he
said, "we cannot infect them with tho
spirit of Americanism. Unless we our
Bclvcs Illustrate the ' ideas of justice
and freedom we can teach nothing to
those who come to us."
No foreign nation was mentioned
specifically by the president, but some
and sometimes very difficult to refrain
from striking."
The government particularly the
president said, should be so maintained
that the immigrant could look at It
with closest scrutiny and not find it
wanting in any particular as the rep
resentative of a free people. He reit
erated his belief that the number of
foreign-born citizens who have been
disloyal make up only a small part of
the whole number of those who have
adopted the United States as their
country.
prosecution," said Mr. Wilkerson,!
rested on the fact that Orpet spent
the night of February X in the garage j
near the greenhouse where cyanide of
sodium, then thought to be cyanide of
potassium, was kept. Marion died of
cyanide of potassium poisoning and
when the cyanide was discovered in
the greenhouse, the state jumped to
the conclusion that Orpet poisoned her
and with the presumption of guilt, has
bent every innocent circumstance to
fit that theorv." I
Resuming his argument for the de
fense today, Attorney Ralph F. I'otter
defended the integrity of his own wit
nesses particularly H. J. Carlin, the
investigator. The state insinuated
that Carlin persuaded state witnesses
to change their testimony. Not one J
word of proof has been brought '
against the investigation I'otter said.
The attorney then turned to Jose
phine Davis, who spent the night with
Marion "oil February 8, the day before
the latter's death. At the impiest and
to state officers Miss Davis said Mar
lon was happy. Never made a threat
of suicide and never cried.
"I was ajigry at Orpet for what he
did to Marion; I thought him guilty
and wanted to say things that would ;
hurt him."
(Continued on
en-
Rage Two)
IIC
NOTS0SERI0US
MSSSTATFI1
IIU IIIIU U I II I L.U
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
NEW YORK, July 1.!.- Leaders in
the medical profession from many
cities; philanthropists and charity
workers thronged the rooms, of the
Academy of Medicine here tonight to
attend a mass meeting for the dis
cussion of infantile paralysis the
plague which has brought death Into
hundreds of homes here in Vie last
few weeks.
Those who hoped that a cure for
thediseae would be heralded or that
isolation of its deadly germ would be
Dr.
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
CL FSO, July is. Shipment of a
trainload of forage, consigned over
the Mixieo Northwestern railway to
private individuals in Caeas Grpndes,
Chihuahua, for use of Generel J. J.
Pershing's expeditionary command,
was held up in Juarez tonight upon
orders from General Francisco Gon-z-'les.
commanding the Carranzista
army in northern Chihuahua. Other
than that General Gonzales acted up
on instructions from General Jacinto
Tievino, in Chihuahua, rto reason wa
assigned for the orders.
Shipments over the Mexican rail
way for the American troops in Mexi
co, which had been forbidden diiri'ljri
the recent crisis, were only resumed
by permission of the Mexican author!-j
ties this week. The motor supply:
trail fr.im expeditionary base at Co- j
lumbds. N. M., to the field being pise- j
ticaliy impessible since the advent of
trie ramy season, the concession was
reparoled as a vita! one and military
authorities here took it a- an evi-!
dence of the good will of the Mexi
can de facto government.
The incident was not generally re
garded as serious, it being believed in
mcrt quarters that negotiations already
under way with Mexico City through
channels other than the military, will
clear away any misunderstanding
which may heve been responsible for
the orders.
Numerous rumors were current in
KI Tnso tonight that the Juarez gar
rison contemplates an early revolt
acrairs.t the authority of the de facto
government, w hile others had it that
a force of Mexicans, hostile to Car
rpnzn. has concentrated in tho hills
a few miles south of the town, and
is attempting to create a feeling of
unrest among tho first chiefs adher
ents. Roth General Gonzales nnc"
Andres Garcia, Mexican consul at FI
Paso, denied that there was any truth
in the rumors-
P. Leased Wire
July 13 The sen-
republican A.
WASHINGTON
ate today besran discussion of the
$."!3.i0C,flt'0 naval bill, the largest
naval appropriation measure by many
millions in the nation's history and
hearing increases of nearly $7iO,0O0,0M0
over its total as it passed the house.
Senate leaders emphasized their in
tention of expediting its considera
ticn and little opposition arose to the
committee amendments presented.
An indication that the senate is ir.
! s mpathy with the liberal increases
j w ritten into the bill by the senate
I naval comi.-.itee, was seer, in the ap
j proval without onposition of a sec
' tion increasing the enlisted strength
of the navy from the present 54,"10
to fiS.TOo men. and 6.H6C apprentice
j seamen. The house bill provided for
', an increase to only 61,90" men
j When the personnel section was
reached. Senator Nc rris csked for an
I explanation of its. purpese. Senator
I Swar.son, in charge of the measure
replied lhat the section as drafted,
followed the recommendations of the
navy general board and wmild give
only a sufficient personnel to man
the best battleships and cruisers nov
BAGKTO SOIL
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
DOUGLAS, Ariz., July 13. General
P. Elias Calles, military commander
of Sonora, has demobilized the vol
unteer force, which" took up arms
when war with the United States
seemed imminent, and publicly an
nounced that orders had been issued
to the regulars under his comand to
return to the Yaiui River valley, but
arrivals today say that the regulars
at various points along the Nacozarl
railroad are making no preparations'
to break camp. Further, the arrivals
says they were informed by high
ranking Mexican officers that no such,
orders have been received and they
do not expoct to be sent away from
the border, district.
As analyzed by American military
men, the Sonora commander has
taken action to rid himself of tha
unorganized mob of volunteers, for
many of whom he had no arms.
They were therefore proving an em
barrassment to him instead of the
help they intended. While 4,0tO reg
ularsj were mustered out of service at
Fronteras and Nacozari and as many
more at Magdalena, United States
military men believe! that the effi
ciency of his force was increased by
the move.
Again Calles, it is stated by reliable
sources, does not consider the danger
of war at an end, though he adopt
ed that pose in order to pacify the
civil population of the state, and
make it easy to rid himself of the
volunteers. In recent conversations,
Calles is quoted as saying that th
questions between the two nations
cannot be solved as long as American
soldiers remain on Mexican soil.
Arrivals during the last few days
have reported growing discontent
among the people because of Car
ranza's action in acceding to any
portion of the demands of the United
States. As a result a strong anti
government faction is said to
forming.
(Continued on Page Three)
Bliss at San Antonio
SAN ANTONIO, July 13. General
Tasker H. Rliss, assistant chief of
staff, arrived here tonight. He wa3
met by General Funston and taken to
his quarters where the two conferred
until late regarding troop dispositions
and the state of the national guard.
General Bliss will make a careful
inspection of the camps where
guardsmen are concenerated, going to
Brownsville in a few- days. He was
accompanied here by Lieutenant Colo
nel McNair who has been made a
brigadier general of tho New York
(Continued on Page Three)
HUNGRY SOLDIERS RAID
Josenhine said in her testimony. "I , announced were disapointed.
talked with my mother and gradually I 'eion Flextier of the Rockefeller in-
-r,r. t stittite for medical research and other
(Continued on Page Three) i,...nit. ,n .!,. i v.
. 2 (;erts told of the progress made by
m-dical science in combating the dis-
Burger Starts for Highest
Office of Mystic Shriners
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
CLEVELAND, July 13. Seven hun
dred militia from Eastern states pass
ing through Cleveland left the train
here this afternoon and raided near
by stores and commission houses,
taking food t,nd merchandise and de
stroying what they did not carry
away.
Riot calls were turned in and
squads of police were sent to th-"
scene in police emergency patrols. The
Fotdiers were driven back to the train
by a squad of twenty armed men or
dered out by Major T. J Moynahan,
commanding the train Some of the
soUliers said they had not eaten in
3fi hours. Tho troops belonged to the
Sixty-ninth, Seventh. Fourteenth,
Twelfth and Twenty-third, New York
infantry, and the First New York
field artillery, all from the metropolis
and Trorp G from T'tica, N. Y.
Hunt Man-Eating Sharks in
Motor Boats on Jersey Coast
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
BUFFALO, N. Y., July 13. James
C. Burger of Denver was elected to
tne office of outer guard, the first
steppingstone to the highest office in
ithat there is no occasion for panic.
. He asserted that the death rate from
burg and Benjamin W. Roivell of infantile paralysis is lower even than
Boston, who were re-elected. Henry from other maladies considered far
N. Niedringh of St. Louis thus be- . less serious. He had a message of
Republican A. P. Leased Wire!
ise, but they had no epoch-making VIi.w vrir, . x. . . ........
discoveries to proclaim. ' " u'i
Dr. Flexner who has devoted his j hunters in motor ff.ats patrolled the
kill and the resources of the New York and New Jersey coasts to-
Rockefeller institute to the battle day w hile others lined the beaches in
ainst the disease, declared however. a concerted effort to exterminate the
of his hearers saw a possible echo of j the order at the closing session of the
the country's recent foreign cornplica-j forty-second annual meeting of the
tlons In his delineation of the ideals ! imperial council of the Nobles of the
which he said must be followed if true j Mystic Shrine here today. There was
Americanism were to be achieved. He
declared the process of Americaniza
tion must be such a process as will in
still a steadfastness to principle and a
Willingness to represent ideal
rather than material things.
keen competition for the honor this
year, David W. Crossland of Mont
gomery, Ala., leading up to the fourth
ballot in a field of five candidates.
things Minneapolis was selected as the
meeting place for June 26, 27 and 2S,
It takes a greut deal more stead- ! 1917
fastness to represent ideal things than j 'All the imperial officers advanced
to represent anything else." he con-j one station according to custom, ex
tintied. "It is easy to lose your temper j eept the secretary and treasurer, re
und hard to keep it. It is easy to strike j spectively, Wm. S. Brown of Pitts-
came imperial potentate. cheer for anxious parents in the an-
Dispensations were granted to Kzig nountement that in a large percentage
temple or KoanoKe, va., and Soudan of cases there are complete recover-
temple of Newburn, vN. C. The only j jes.
temple to get a. charter was Alzafar Artificial respiration was suggested
of San Antonio, Texas. The appli-iby Dr. Louis C. Ager as one method
cation of Champaign, Ills., and To- of treatment. He said it was possible ' ,ou lnllt 18 mtles from the open sea
pe'ta, Kans., were put over until next ' that considerable might be accom- nas neen dispelled by persons who ac-
year. iplished in that wav tually have seen a half dozen or more
rnan-eaters which have moved north
from their customary haunts, appar
ently in large numbers. The village au
thorities of Matawan, N. J., 'offered a
reward of J100 for every shark brought
in dead or alive.
The belief that a single shark was
responsible for the killing of four
swimmers "in New Jersey waters with
in the last two weeks, two of them
yesterday, In Matawan creek, a shal-
An application for a charter for the rr Hnven Fmerr,n health et,m- f the monsters.
Panama Canal Zone was refused. At- i missioner of this citv tidd whnt is' ne theory 's that the sharks which
tentlon was called to the fact that a being done to fight the enldemic snd f"rmRrly fed on refuse thrown over
few women were allowed to pando asserted that the widesnrenrt ni irm board from the many ocean steamships
which parents feel is not justified. He tnHt phed before the war began, now
with the shriners in Buffalo and it
Atlantic coast, warm at this season,
and attack human beings.
Three of the huge fishes were seen
today In Matawan creek and now are
believed to be bottled up there. Nets
have been stretched -under a bridge
about a mile and a half from the
mouth of the inlet to prevent egress
into Raritan bay. A British sloop ar
riving from Bermuda was reported to
night to have killed a score of sharks
during the voyage, one of them off the
New Jersey coast.
Terror has seized the multitudes
(Continued on Page Three)
Aged Miner Tortured and
Then Slain in Mine Tunnel
was decided to enforce more rigidly
the rule excluding all except noble's.
Rain prevented the
dti!Is of Arab patrols.
wlid that out of 2,(100 Riispected caseslnave "ecome ravenous. i.ven those not
investigated only 1,640 true ca-.es of , ordinarily classed as man-eaters, it is
competitive infantile paralysis had been found, 'of 8a,d' Probably have been driven by
which 308 resulted fatally. -starvation to turn in tne waters ot the
(Special to The Republican)
HAYDKN, Ariz., July 13. The body
of Michael (5. O'Brien, a prospector
aged about 60 years, was found by
Fred Lattin and R. Chamberlain of
Florence yesterday morning upon
visiting his prospect to have him sign
an option on his property. O'Brien's
body was found in a tunnel with
haling wire wrapped around his neck
both hands and one leg burned off
and a bullet hole through his body.
The crime evidently was committed
during the past twodays but recent
rains obliterated all clues.
O'Brien was owner of valuable
mining claims and several years ago
sold the Christmas mine for $15,000.
The motive of the- murder is a mys
tery but local authorities are of the
opinion it was robbery. There is no
doubt that the unfortunate man was
tortured before being shot. O'Brien
was an old timer in this vicinity,
having come here in the eighties. Ho
leaves no family.
