doe Jtotrmton intelligent
VOL. XLVI
LEXINGTON, LAFAYETTE COUNTY, MISSOURI, FRIDAY, JULY 14, 1916.
NUMBER 28.
DEATH OF GEO. II. STIER.
A Former Citizen of Lexington
Dies in Kansas City After
an Illness of Several
Months.
George Holliday Stier, a form
er citizen of Lexington and a
widely known insurance repres
entative of the Mutual Life, died
Sunday at 12:30 o'clock at his
home, 3122 Broadway, Kansas
City, Mo. Mr. Stier had been
complaining for several months
but only recently was his con
dition such as to cause serious
apprehension by members of his
family. His death was due to
heart and kidney trouble.
Mr. Stier was born in Virginia,
and was about 65 years of age.
When a mere child his parents
Newell T. Wilcoxon Injured.
Newell T. Wilcoxon, proprietor
of the Wilcoxon Feed Store, was
(feeding a corn sheller Tuesday
and had the misfortune of hav
ing his left hand caught be
tween the rollers. The first fin
ger was so badly crushed that it
had to be amputated and the sec
ond finger is in such condition
that it too may have to be taken
off. Mr. Wilcoxon was attended
by Dr. McGill.
Attended Funeral.
The following from Lexington
attended the funeral of George
H. Stier in Kansas City Tuesday,
day:
Mr. and Mrs. W. F. Hinesley,
Miss Jo Hinesley, Mr. and Mrs.
J. W. Sydnor, Mrs. Francis
moved to Iowa where he was Stonestreet, Dr. Z. M. Williams,
raised and where he first engag- JRev. T. M. Cobb, E. M. Taubman,
ed in the business which in af- ,1 H. Noyes.'H. T. Phillips, J C.
ter years brought him honor and ' Graddy, Worth Bates, Barnett
success. Mr. Stier was a self
made man in the truest sense.
Without education or parental
influence he tackled the prob-
Young, and A. W. Allen.
Fire on Lafayette Street.
Wednesday the fire conmanv
lems of life and through his own jg called out to extinguish a
efforts gained success in a dif- fire at the home of Earl Wallace
ncuu neia oi enaeavor. wnen a on Lafayette street. The fire
young man he learned the har- waa caused by a defective flue
ness trade in Oscaloosa, Iowa, 'and was under control before the
and afterwards engaged in the fire company arrived.
business in Red Oak, Iowa
Leaving this he studied law for
two years in the office of ex
Governor Drake at Centerville,
Her Eightith Birthday.
Mrs. Francis E. McFadin, who
is seriously ill at her home, 231
Iowa. During this time he be-Nf sixteenth street, was eighty
in euin ie insurance yeara oM tod ghe had
business and meeting with con- the pleasure and satisfaction of
siderable success, he decided to having her children and many
drop the law and make insurance of her grandcd with her.
his j life s work. HecametoLex- tis the wish of her many friends
ington about twenty years ago and friendg of the family that
and formed a partnership with thig most estimable woman and
the late Geo. M. Monntjoy. His mothei. reived new hope and
success was very pronounced and strength surounded by her chil.
soon became one of the Mutual's dren and ive to enjoy many more
most valuable men, About ten birthdays.
years ago ne was maae general
superintendent of the company
and moved to Kansas City, where
V,o lino einro rooiorl
nt. ov ',.,, of Lexington and a nephew of
Mr. Stier was a most affiable r n , J.. . .
Death of Joseph C. Cash.
Dr. Joseph C. Cash, formerly
gentleman, courteous and oblig
ing. He knew his business and
succeeded.
Mr. Stier is survived by his
wife, who was formerly Miss
Florida Taggart of Milan, Mo.,
Mrs. Ethan Allen, died Sunday,
July 9th at his home in Texar
kana, Ark. Dr. Cash graduated
from Wentworth and afterwards
studied dentistry. He was about
48 years of age, and is survived
Burial
was in Texarkana,
rno rJmwrVif oi Alloa TlniMrl o litr
. , , V. i by a wife and one son
ing at home, and one son, Earl . .
T., of this city.
The funeral was held from'" " -
the home, 3122 Broadway, Kan- 2:30 o'clock. Interment
Fas City, Tuesday afternoon at in Kansas City.
was
C :
iir
v. -'
V
8
?'
J"?
rk
i
n
ft
STORE YOU 8 GRAIN
IN A
METAL GRAIN BIN
Rain and Rat Prool
Wc are prepared to quote
you attractive prices on
several different makes.
s4
?'
I'
THE CONGRESSIONAL RACE FROM THIS VIEWPOINT.
(From the Howard county Advertiser)
For ten years the Seventh Congressional District was rep
resented by Hon. John T. Heard of Pettis County, for two years
by Hon. John P. Tracy of Greene County, for six years by Judge
James Cooney of Saline county, for two years by Hon. C. W.
Hamlin of Greene County, for two years by Hon. John Wel
borne of Lafayette County, and for the past ten years by Hon.
C. W. Hamlin of Greene County. From the record we find that
for the past thirty years this district has been, represented
by a Greene County man for almost half the time, although we
have eight counties in the district.
When Mr. Hamlin was first elected he defeated Judge
Cooney of Saline County on the ground that six years was long
enough for one man or one county to hold this office. He has
now held it for just two times as long as Judge Cooney held it.
He has been paid for his services the sum of Eighty-five thous
and ($85,000) dollars besides his expenses in going to and re
turning from Washington and has been allowed $1200 a year
for a secretary. This looks like it ought to satisfy a man who
was elected to office on the ground that six years was enough
for one man. v
In the last primary there were two candidates for this
office from Greene County and Mr. Durst defeated Mr. Hamlin
in the county where they both lived by 424 votes. So Greene
County, was not at that time for Mr. Hamlin. This year as
Mr. Hamlin says the Springfield Leader is against him, but
he does not mention the other Democratic paper, but this is
what it says : "The Democrats of the North part of this dis
trict, where the big party majorities are always in evidence
have been more than graciously considerate of the interests and
claims of this end of the district for a long, long time, and as
it appears to the express, this is easily the right time for fair
minded Greene County Democrats to give a timely and practical
illustration of genuine Democratic recprocity:"
We are now hearing much from papers whose editors are
postmasters about changing horses in mid-stream and about a
Congressman not being able to get started in twelve years. It
may be true that some Congressmen cannot get started in
twelve years but as general proposition we do not believe that
a man who it takes that long to e n start will ever get r.,uch
farther than started either in Congress or in any other busi
ness, and as to changing horses in mid-stream there is never
any danger in changing horses anywhere where you know both
horses.
Rotation in office is one of the cardinal policies of the
Democratic party and in fact is the chief distinction between
an autocratic and a democratic government. We do not be
lieve in life tenure in office and that is what these gentlemen
are contending for. We have over twenty thousand democrats
in this district and we believe there are many who could get
started in less than twelve years, and we know that Sam Major
could. He has demonstrated that in the state senate, where
he was the author of much valuable legislation for the district
he represented. He is not only experienced but is able and
has a way of doing things.
Andrew Jackson said "The duties of all public offices are
or at least admit of being made, so plain and simple that men
of intelligence may readily qualify themselves for their perfor
mance, and I cannot but believe that more is lost by the long
continuance of men in office than is to be gained by their ex
perience" and we are with "Old Hickory" on this proposition.
DEATH OF YOUNG EWING.
Death of Mrs. H. C. Manary.
Word was received here Wed-1
nesday announcing the death of Well Known and Highly Respect
Mrs. H. C. Manary, sister of
Mrs. Lee J. Slusher, at her home
in Joplin, Mo., Wednesday after-
ed Citizen Dies After Long
Illness.
After a prolonged struggle
noon at 3:45 o'clock. Her death with a complication of ills, Young
was due to a complication of dis- Ewing, a prominent member of
eases. one of the foremost families of
Mrs. Manary was born in In- the county, died Tuesday morn
dependence, August 28, 1861, ing at his home, 303 Washington
and was 55 years of age. 'Avenue. Death was due to a
The body will be brought to combination of heart and kid
Lexington tonight. The remains ney trouble. Mr. Ewing was
will be taken direct from the taken sick last November and de
train to the Slusher burying clined steadily. Several weeks
grounds about seven miles east ago it was apparent that death
of Lexington. Services will be j'was inevitable. In spite of all
tonducted by Rev. Anderson of jthat loving hands could do for
Dover. ,him. he became weaker and
j'weaker. During the present hot
Major Boosters Here. spell he had great difficulty in
A party of thirty professional breathing,
and business men, including a j So when the news of his death
band, from Howard County, who came, it was not a surprise. It
are touring the Seventh district 'caused, however, profound sor-
boosting for Sam. C. Major, ar
rived in Lexington yesterday.
They are traveling in autos dec-
row in the community.
Young Ewing was born five
miles south of Lexington, March
orated with streamers bearing, 1864, and at the time of his
"Vote for Sam C. Major for .death was fifty-two years of age.
Congress." These men making! He was the son of the late N. C.
jtrip on their own initiative and Catherine Ewing. He was
! speaks mighty well of the feel- reared in the country. In 1890
ling towards Mr. Major in his he came to Lexington, where for
own county. twenty-one years he was engag-
j ed in the grocery business, sev-
Pays Their Soldier Men. enteen years in partnership with
! The Missouri Gas and Electric John Eggleston and four years
j Service Company had two men with J. F. Winn. He was a
belonging to the national guard Capable business man and en
of Missouri, one in Lexington joyed a good patronage as long
and one in Liberty, who were as he was in business,
called to the colors. The com- in September, 1893, he was
pany .has announced that they married to Miss Ida Page of
will receive full wages until Oc-Buckner, Missouri, who was
'tober 1st, and thereafter their a splendid helpmate for him.
full wages minus their pay as During his illness, Mrs. Ewing
soldiers. Their positions will was untiring and wonderfully
also be held open. patient in her efforts to provide
for his comfort.
! Groves-Coss. j He is survived by his widow;
The announcement has been one son, Joel ; a sister, Mrs. John
received here of the wedding in Eggleston; and a brother, Joel
Boulder, Colorada, Saturday. II. Ewing, all of Lexington.
'July, 1, of Mr. Horatio S. Groves The funeral services conduct
bf Denver, Col., and Miss Mabel ed by Rev. S. O. Hall, were held
Coss, formerly of this city. They from the home Wednesday after
will be at home in Denver after noon at 2:30 o'clock.
July 15.
L !h brk!e ? t sL?ler of M-! Mr. and Mrs. Hugo Kemner
r. l. wawnau oi.this city and a and da M Miss gelma Kem.
'tntTnpr rpanhpr in V10 T nv nfnn . . .
ner, accompanied by Miss Oiga.
Tempker and Carl Jeude went to
j Sedalia Tuesday where they
I Mrs. S. E. Brown and two attended the wedding of Mr.
children went to Kansas City Kemner's son, Mr. Arnold Kem-
' yesterday for a visit. ner to Miss Lola Launde.
'former teacher in the Lexington
Punblic Schools.
Death of W. C. Sodeman. ' Child's Funeral Wednesday.
V. C. Sodeman, an influential Mr. and Mrs. Frank Doran,
and highly respected citizen of brother of Mrs. Frank E. Carter
i Concordia, died at his home in and Mrs. Tete Hale arrived
j Concordia Wednesday, follow- Tuesday from McAllen, Texas
,ing an operation for appendici- with the remains of their five
tlS. mnnth'a tAA
l Mr. Sodeman was in the hard- died at that place last Friday.
It .ware business in Concordia, sue- The funeral wa,s held from
4 j ceding to the business of
'i j father. Mr. Sodeman was
nignest type or citizen, a
of the strictest integrity,
ored and respected by all
knew him.
his the home of Frank E. Carter on
the North 16th Street Wednesday ,
man morning at 10 o'clock. Service:
hon- were conducted by Rev. R. W. j
who Wallace. Burial was in Mach- i
'telah cemetery. 1 i
Jas. A. Houchin Here Friday. .
James A. Houchin, an aspirant
II i for gubernatorial honors on the ,
Athletics. 12; K. C. 2.
The Athletics defeated the
ft i Democratic ticket, made a short
W i ,.,.u -r.., 4V, 4. t, to
local team featured.
O Tl 1 I il ,
f Isnwh from ihe ronrr hmisP u' A- Ilume runs "V
" "
Kansas City Blents Sunday 12
ns by the
Batteries":
P
it
t
LAMBERT LUMBER COMPANY
JOHN J. PRICE, Manager.
"The Yard that Saves and Satisfies."
stens Fridav morninc. Mr
Houchin is a sure enough boost-jKf!ns;tS Cit Sweeney and Mich
r fnr morl mart fln,l rPmP. ' Lexington, Carmichael and
dies for all the ills of the public
Shinn.
i
h
service.
Mr. and Mrs. Ralph Johnson ' Two
announce the birth of a daught- Thone R 13 B
For Sale
Duroc Jersey
Boars.
don. Sai Co Major
of Howard County, Democratic candidate for Gyijrr'-'s in the
Seventh District of Missouri, will speak in Lafayette County at:
Corder, Tuesday, July 18th at 10 o'clock A. M.
Hijrginsville, Tuesday, July 18th at 2 o'clock P. M.
Odessa, Tuesday, July ISth at 7:30 o'clock P. M.
Bates City. Wednesday. July 19th, 10 o'clock A. M.
Wellington, Wednesday, July 19th. 2 o'clock P. M.
Lexington, Wednesday, July 19th, 8 o'clock P. M.
Dover, Thursday, July 20th, at 10 o'clock A. M."
Wavcrly, Thursday, July 20th at 2 o'clock P. M.
He has a message of importance to every voter of this dis
trict and a special effort should be made to hear him.
er, Sunday, July 9, 1916.
7-1 4-1 mo.
Geo. Thoman.
