Subscription $1 per Yar
Fine Job Work.
HARTFORD, OHIO COUNTY, KY., FRIDAY, JULY 14, 1916.
Ko.
VOL. XXIX.
DEVOTED TO THE INTERESTS OF ALL THE PEOPLE OF OHIO COUNTY
ALAMO MASSACRE
FRESH IN MEMORY
ACCOUNT OK GREAT SLAUGHTER
OK KI011TV YEARS AGO
retold:
NOT A DEFENDER LEFT
After .Most Heroic Defense Kvcr
Known rerlmiw, None Hur-
vive Ikittle.
"Thermopylae hud Its messengers
of dentil, hut the Alamo had none."
Not n defender of the old stone mis
sion house and fortress, which stands
K today Jn San Antonio, Tex., surviv
ed to tell the story when the Alamo
foil eighty years ago hoforo 4,000
frenzied Mexicans. The hattlo cry
that had Its origin In that lilood
tsoaked compound of scarred walls
Aam its defenders' ashes has never
been forgotten.
"Kemembcr the Alamo!" ran tho
word through Texas, and Texas re
membered. At San Jacinto, Tex.,
troops," eleven hundred of them,
shouted to ono another hoarsely.
"Remember the Alamo," and men re
membered how Davy Crockett had
died, rlngod around with dead Mexi
cans, and "Jim" Dowle, and Col.
Travis; and at San Jacinto tho power
of Mexico was broken forever as far
as Texas was concerned.
Texas remembers the Alamo to
day, when rumblings and rumors of
new bloodshed run up and down the
border, when the bodies of Ameri
cans slaughtered on scattered ranch
es. In mlnlnc villages, oven on Amer
lean soil, cry otlt for vengeance. You
do not wonder that hatred of tho
Mexican burns deep In theso border
folks, when you look back upon tho
blood-stained pages of their past
and "remember the Alamo."
TexaB, settled by hardy frontiers
men and backwoodsmen, had revolt
ed against tho rule of Santo Anna,
dictator of Mexico, and declared It
self Independent. That Independence
it won without the aid of the United
States, and the most heroic struggle
of tho fight was tho Alamo.
The Alamo was on old stone and
. dobo mission house.butlt In the arly
Eighteenth century and used occa
sionally by Spaniards and Mexicans
as a fort and arsenal. There, when
Santa Ana canto up with his 4,000 ov
er COO miles of desert In February,
1S3C, tho little handful of Americans,
150 strong, under Col. William Trav
els, made their stand. It was a des
peruto venture, from tho start, a for
loln hope. If Houston camo down
from tho North In time rescue was
possible, otherwise what could 1C0
men hope to do against 4,000?
Jr- There wero Mexican troops already
between him and tho Alamo when
Davy Crockett, frontiersman, hunter,
soldier under Jackson and ono ttmo
member of Congress, mado his way
into tho fortress. From tho roof of
the old building the Americans saw
tho dust of Santa Anna's army com
ing up from tho south.
There woro a fow old cannon in
tho Alamo, thirty head of beef cuttle,
ninety bushels of corn. But when
Santa Annu sent n messenger de
manding tho fort's Immediate sur
render Col. Travis refused promptly
and fired one of his cannon. In tho
camp of tho Mexicans they raised a
blood red flag, and that meant no
uartcr. Tho frontiersmen know how
tho Mexicans not only slow, but muti
lated their enemies.
February 23 tho slego bogan and
it continued until MorcH 0. The
Mexicans had artillery, but they
could not bring It closo, Tho Toxas
riflemen woro too skillful la picking
off tho gunners. At ono cannon Davy
Crockett picked off flvo gunners In
succession and the Mexicans could
not oven drug It back to a safer po
sition until after dark. The Ameri
cans threw out u thin skirmish lino
beyond tholr fortifications and tho
long rifles did deadly work.
Dowlo, desperately 111 of typhoid
fever, was constantly alert, constant
ly asking, whether thero was any
news of succor from tho north.
There was none.
Day after day rifle balls and can
non shot foil within tho lnclosure.
Day after day mon fell and. tholr bod-
"ies wero piled In a dark room on the
first floor of' the old building.
And outside very many little
brown soldiers, In their gaudy Jaun
ty uniforms, fell down and writhed
a little on tho ground, and, soiled
with blood and dust, lay still forev
er.
A band of thirty-two rangers know
ing well enough that they were rid
ing to tholr death, hncked their way,
cheering, through tho Mexican Hues
nn,t ininml tlin hnccard fichtcrs in
the Alamo.
Ajrreed To Klglit To The last.
It was March 3 when Col. Travis,
In a lull of the fighting, called his
garrison around him. He explained
that It was hopeless nny longer to ex
pect assistance; that tho fight was
hopeless; Hint there wero two things
to do. One was to haul down tho
Lnno Star flag and surrender tho for
tress. There wns silence at that.
Tho other was to dlo defending tho
Alamo. Tho faces of the defenders
of the Alamo brightened and grew
resolute at that. Travis drew his
sword out of Us scabbard and drew
u lino on the earthen floor between
him and his men.
"I propose to stay hero," ho said
quietly, "until I am killed. All thosi'
who will be with mo will come to
this side of tho lino; all wlio wish
to surrender wm remain ou mm
side."
Every man of the garrison crossed
the line. Col. Howie. Inventor of tho
famous knife, who was desperately
111 of typhoid fever, had his cot pick
ed up and carried over. Davy Crock
ett leaped over like a boy, waving
his coonskln cap.
I Tho morning of March G the Ala
mo fell. Tho Mexican army. Infur
iated by almost two weeks of delay
caused by theso stubborn grlngoes,'
came on to storm tho convent. Field
pieces opened breaches in tho walls.
Mexican soldiers carried ladders to
Dlant acalnst the walls, and other
Mexicans swarmed up tho ladders.
.Hand to hand they fought with tho
' . .. . 4t. nll T)llt
Texans at mo iop oi iw i. "-
tho defenders' line was alt too thin.
(Continued on Eighth Page.)
-e-
HEAVRIN'S COURSE
FULLY INDORSED
REPUBLICAN COMMITTEE AP
PROVES ACTION ELECTING
A. T. HERT.
' Tho Ohio County Republican Ex
ecutive Committee at its session hero
on last Saturday unanimously adopt
ed tho following resolution with ref-
i crenco to the actions of M. L. Hcav-
.rln delegate from the Fourth Ken
tucky District to the National Con
vention in tho election of Kentucky's
member of tfie Nntlonal Committee.
I "Resolved by the Ohio County
j Republican Executive Committee in
sessI6n regularly assembled that we
I do especially approve of tho action
of M. L. Heavrln, delegate to tho
lato Chicago National Republican
Convention, ns touching and relat
ing to tho election of Hon. A. T.
Hert as mombor of tho National Re-
i Diibllcnn Commltteo from Kentucky.
and that In tho election of Mr. Hert
wo believe tho sentiment of the dis
trict Is best represented.
IN O. CLASS CHANGES
ANNOUNCED FOR KY.
Washington, July 8. Changes In
tho class of Kentucky post-olUces re
I suiting from tho annual readjustment
' of postmasters' salaries, effective Ju
I ly 1, woro announced to-day by tho
I Postofllco Department: Plnevlllo
j and Marlon woro changed from third
(to second-class olllces. Tho depart
'nicnt announced that examinations
for rural carriers will bo hold on Au
gust 12 at Cadiz, McKlnnoy, Eddy
vllle, Campbellsvllle, Qrayson, Cyn-
thlana, Marlon, Madlsonvlllo, Mays
vlllo, Taylorsvlllo, Williamsburg and
Howling Greon.
-
ROHItER LOCKS CASHIER
IN VAULT, GETS $111)0
Jnrbalo, Kan.,' July 8. An un
masked robber locked Kelly Mooro,
tho cashier, Into the vault of tho Jar
balo Stato Bank hero to-day and es
caped with about 1900. He ran to
an automobile in which two men
wero seated and the car sped away
toward Kansas City, less than thir
ty miles east of here. Moore re
leased himself ton minutes later, and
other citizens In a high-powered mo
tor car started in pursuit.
(SUBMARINE LANDS
TEUTON'S UNDER HEA CRAFT IS
HAKKIiY DOCKED AT
BALTIMORE.
ELUDES MEN OF WAR
Is HritlNli Blockade Hroken lty This
New German Way of Nvi-
Katlon?
Baltimore, July 10. Upon deliver
ing his ship's papers to the office of
tho North German Lloyd line today,
Capt. Konlg, of tho submarine mer
chantman Deutschlaud, which reach
ed Chesapeak Ray yesterday from
Bremen, Issued a formal statement
declaring his voyage across tho At
lantic had broken Englaud's rule of
the seas.
At the same time the cnptaln dis
posed finally of the report that ho
carried a message from Emperor .
William to President wuson, saying
there was no foundation for the
story.
The statement, typewritten on the
stationery of the Deutche Ozean
Rhederel O. M. B. H Bremen, an
nounced that the Deutschland was
the first of several submarines built
for the trans-Atlantic trade, and that
she would be followed by the "Ber
lin:" All during the night a considera
ble part of tho Deutschland's crew
had been astir and a small search
light played almost constantly upon I
1 a newspaper yacht anchored near by.
The tug Thomas F. Tlmmpns, con-.
Ivoylug tho submarine, also kept the
yacht under close surveillance.
Captain's Statement.
Following Is the statement:
"The feubmarlno Deutschland.whlch
I have tho honor to command, Is tho
first of several submarines, built to
order of the Deutsche Ozean-Rhederel
G. M. B. H Bremen. She will be
followed by the Bremen shortly.
Curfto of Dyestuffs.
"We have brought a most valua
ble cargo of dyestuffs to our Ameri
can friends, dyestuffs which have
been so much needed in America, and
which tho ruler of the seas has not
allowed tho great American republic
to import. While England will not
nllow anybody the same right of the
ocean, because she rules the waves, '
wo have by means of the submarine
commenced to break this rule. I
I "Great Britain, cannot, however,'
hinder boats such as ours .to go and
come as we please. Our trip passing
Dover across the ocean was an un
eventful one. When danger ap
proached wo went below tho surface, j
and hero we are safe In American j
port, ready to return in duo course.
"I am not In a position to give you
full details regarding our trip across
'the ocean, In view of our enemies.
, Our boat has a displacement of i
about 2,000 tons and a speed of more
i than fourteen knots. Needless to ,
say that wo aro quite unarmed and ,
only a peacoful merchantman.
Will Curry Mulls. '
"Our boats will carry across tho
I Atlantic tho malls and save them
from British Interruption. j
i "Wo trust that tho old friendly re
i latlonbhlp with -the United States
going back to tno nays oi wasning
, ton, when It was Prussia who was
the first to help America in its fight
, for freedom from British rule, will
i awake afresh In your beautiful and
, powerful couutry. j
I "Tho houso flag of tho Doutscho
I Ozean-Rhederl Is the old.Bromen flag
red and whtto stripes, with tho
I coat of urms of tho town the key In '
I tho corner. This key Is tho slgn'that
i . ... .... ..
wo havo opened me gates wmcii
Great Britain tried to shut Mpon us
and tho trade of the world. Tho
gates which we opened with this key
will not bo shut again. Opou, door
to tho trade of tho world and freedom
of tho oceans and equal rights to all
nations on the oceans will be guar
anteed by Germany's victory in this
struggle for our existence"
Avoided Men-ofWar.
"We did not oit the entire trip
como into closo proximity with any
man-of-war. Wo avoided them all.
It was vory simple.
EVnm tha Mnrlli Son vwfl went
straight through tho English cban-
nel, which la alive with warships,
and on the night of tho fourth day
we submerged and remained still all
night on tho ground, on the bottom
of tho channel. There were lots of
cruisers near us we knew, and it was
very foggy. So we thought It wise
not to take any chances, and I gave
tho order to submerge for tho night
and until there should be clearer
weather. The next morning all was
well and wo proceeded through the
channel Into the Atlantic Ocean with
out Incident.
"Our trip has demonstrated that
the big merchant submarine is prac -
tlcal and that It has come to stay.
Wo expect the venture to be a great
llllUUUlUI QUCCUS3. 1111S Billy cult Wl-
ry a cargo of 1,000 tons, and on this ;
trip .carried 760 tons of dyestuffs,.
valued at 11,000,000. The charges
for the shipment alone will pay for
the cost of the Deutschland, about
?G00,000. On this trip we carried
no malls, nor did we carry money or"1B"T '" "
securities. Also we came without
Insurance, running entirely at our
own risk."
illow Deluy Occurred.
It Was learnea mat DOUl ICIt iire-
men with her load of about 750 tons but there Iong t0 w,tnesa the of today came the sulphur match,
of valuable dyestuffs, which her aImoBt ,ndeacribablo destruction ?J hoJ?evet? WaS j "t complete la
owners hope to sell to American man- wr0ugl,t In the front-line trenches by f11', Thf " T f pa8te,0f
ufacturers for a fortune. At Helgo- the artm Ho Bays that the mas-l101 f ft a"h' 'ulphur'Il f
land she waited nine days, leaving ! B,Teiy-bullt positions had been re- "f' ve"n1,on' and sum, bad to
thero June 23 to plow deep beneath garded as virtually indestructible and ' 1, T m? ,5f
the surface of the North Sea to es- lmpregnable, but the event proved Ph', ' Pr Ch
eapo the watchful eyes of the allied tnat the progre88 ln tho deyeJpproent j An explosive flame wa.
oiocKauers. v.api. nomB iiiuiuurcu
tttat ihn nnpnnoa nr ma inntr riAinv nr
.!.. .... F...,.u . ... . o uer onensive naa not Deen reauzea.
Helgoland was to deceive the enemy, ..At the beginning of artillery op
who undoubtedly had heard rumora eratlons," says the Lieutenant, "the
of the submarine's coming. "We
stopped there for very good reasons,"
the captain explained with a broad
smile.
Tht nmimtert for the belief in the
...- .
United States that, the vessel was a
weok overdue, , a misapprehension
that caused German embassy officials
to fear that she had run into allied
warships or fallen victim of an At-
lantic storm
In Open Sea.
Once outside the blockading lines
and Into, the Atlantic, according to
the -catftaln's story, he- headed
straight across and only deviated
from the course once when he saw
i.a i.n lnt A un Ann... A.n ft ltf.o
of the time he sped along on the sur-
fno mnVin nrnnnii nurtppn kiints
an hour with his powerful twin Die- was a regular Vesuvius eruption- The
sel oil engines. Submerged he could t destructive effects of this unlnter
en at tho rate of seven and a half ' rupted throwing of the heaviest
knots.
- fir?
Path Clear.
Approaching the capes
late
sat-
unlay, Capt. -Konlg found his path I
apparently clear. He laid to
...
Ilia ucujvb uvvuDil, uifnutci, nuiuub
until darkness fell before nearlng
the coast. When the- bright half
moon went down, shortly after mld-
night, he put on nil speed and shot reach crater aft8r crater slx feet deep I pects to start a week hence for Ele-betw-een
the Virginia capes, to be the c&rih betw(jen bolng tQrn up ,n pnant ls,and in another attempt to
Krcm. u, . lUB 4.u.u.u..
there more than a week before to
await his coming.
Carefully Guarded.
When the vessel was released from
quarantine sho moved up the river p0rt after report arrived of bomb
to the pier of the Eastern Forward- proofs demolished by aerial torpo
ing Company, six miles away, to a does, burying the inmates. The
carefully guarded waiting berth. On
tho way up bIio passed a dozen mer-,
chnntmen Hying at anchor. The
first, a big Norwegian freighter, dip-J
ped her flag and her whole ship's
company lined against tho rail, rals- verso them. An orderly sent to a provisions. Thero aro several schoon
ed three rousing cheers, which wero Captain was hours under way. On ' ers named Emma, but none is re
answered with a will. With anoth-jthe left flank the company trench ' ported by available shipping records
or Norwegian and two Dutch ships wa8 s0 obliterated that it was dlill- at Buenos Aires.
tho submarine exchanged formal sa- cuit to trace It. The only mean3 of ' "
lutes. Sho moved closo by a num- f progress was to dnso from crater to ! OFFICE CHANGES .MADE.
her of British tramps In silence, ob- crater fully exposed to the onemy flro 1Y CAPITOL COMMISSION
served with eager Interest by the ' while crossing tho Intervening rldg-
English crews. es. Finally ho arrived, after a per-j Frankfort, Ky., July " 8. Tho
At the dock the boat hardly was i0,i nf Intense dancer, and found tho Cnpltol Commission, at a meeting to-
tied up before an army of nowspa-'
iwir nun nnil innvlnp nicturo nhotOR-!
per men and moving, picture photog
raphers stormed the place. They
woro not permitted to get near tho
Deutschland, protected by a barbed
wire stockade and numoroua guardB,
but Capt. Konlg soon appeared on
shore and cheerfully posed before
tho camera.
'
MAN CRAZED, OIL ROOM
HA1U XU IH'i illtt WiXUfJti
Lexington, Ky., July 8. Charles
Rico, of Estill county, was brought
to the Eastern Kentucky Hospital
for tho Insane hero today, a raving
maniac.
He is said to have been crazed by
the clamors of oil prospectors who
sought to buy the mineral rights ot
his lands, which adjoin those on
which a rich oil strike was made.
Rice Is a large Undtowner of Es
till county. j
HAVOC WROUGHT
BY AIR TORPEDOES
.,...,,...., . ...... ...
S K,A'T,ilXS
OK TRENCH DAMAGE IN AL
LIES' DRIVE.
BOMB
!
)Kllir
PROOFS BURIED
Hurled Comrades From
Ruins Great Difficulty To
Teutons.
Berlin, July 7 (Delayed)
n eye
ipn AOB n nnill ft lltn Anirln Tminnli '
V mil-GB U,VUUIb Jk. HIv7 X&U&1U-J7 A tTIlUll
'offensive Is given In dispatches from
" uscn, one oi tno editors
"' l" " "" "lutlon of the flint, steel, and tinder
""" "" " "" " " ""-"
es near the Somme River.
The Lieutenant was wounded dur
th nrpnnrntnrv linmlinrHmont
- of offensive tactics since thd Soptem-
. . . . . . .. .
enomy Bnowed Germans a new
thlnE ln the way of attacklnE obaer.
vatjon balloons. An aviator swoop-1
I eli down on one of these and shot'
., . . , .
vnllnn hQllnnna Am ovtnmr aurnftn.
- ,... , ,. u ,1
into uuiia tiuui uuuvc a uutoi ui
flame marking the end of the bal-
i00n ' '
j Aerial Mines riay Havoc.
j ..The second day8 bombardment,
June or. broucht another surorlso
in the shape of aerial mines of unheard-of
calibres, which were thrown
In Incredible numbers. The explo
slon of the first air torpedo shatter -
eu. by it treraenuous uetonanon me
windows of the bomb-proofs and
threw up a massive pillar of black i
an fHi naphnna n iiinHrpf! vnrrifl HTMita '
showered the whole neighborhood
with roofs, bricks and earth. This
mlnna woro nlmnaf Imtncvl Inlplv visi
ble. The entrances to two bomb-
ntAAfa WAIA Kl1tlAi1 f Tl A f ll O ItimfltaQ
r:D " . .:r..
i naa iq do removea.
a lew iumuLU3 uiiur uu orueriy
company, returned, reporting that
the trench had been completely lev
eled. Lieut. Dambltch, going to ob-
.,,...,. on,,, no tnv na t,a ovn nmilrl
a wndi hJgu chQos o trencU tlmbera
and wire entanglements. "The
work of day and night for
nine
months," says tno cnronicier, -wa
destroyed in a few minutes. Re-
trenches bocamo rapidly loveled;
communication between the sections
Wns extremely difficult.
"Tho third Hues were so heavily
; shelled that It was Impossible to trn-1
0n platoon of tho compuny ln tho (
.mn r.n,1lilrm no thn rliit nlntnnn.
snmn pnnilitinn ns tho rleht nlatoon.
A number of men wero still burled In j Commission, the Kentucky Library
the demolished boom-proofs. Their ( Commission, the Kentucky Illlterac.v
comrades worked for hours extrlcat-' Commission and tho Stato Historical
lug them. I Society from tho now Capitol build-
Surgeon Works Under Klre. j ing to tho old Capitol building. Tho
"During this work, an Intrepid ofllces ot the Prison Commission, tho
batalllon surgeon arrived with an Stato Board of Control ot Charlta
oxygen npparatus and stood for hours bio Institutions and the. Fish and
under a heavy artillery fire, minister- Game Commission will be moved
Ing to tho half-burled and attempting, from tho old . Capitol to tho new
to revive those asphyxiated. I building. The Workmen's Corapou-
"The bombardment continued with-satlon Board also will bo given qf
out cessation, aerlul torpedoes being flee room In the nowvCapltol. The
hnripi! from ranees such ob was nev- Compensation Hoard is at present
er before known for mine-throwers,
and tho French artillery pounded ev
ery yard of ground with an Intense
fire of big shells."
The Lieutenant describes how wel-
come relnforcomenta wero sent that
night, "ulte'as much to assist in dig-
elne out' those burled aa'to contrlb-1'
uU to the' defense." He was leading
r '
them to positions among the demoral
ized trenches when ho and5 -hi or
dorly wero wounded by an exploding:
torpedo. They were sent to the hos
pital, thus missing the Infantry t
tacks.
-
ORIGIN AND EVOLUTION
OK ORDINARY MATCHES
The first known method of pro
ducing a "light" was by the la
borous process of frictlqn, the rublng
of one dry plcco of wood against an
other. It Is said that savages notic
ed that forest fires occurred durfflg
wind, and observation showed them
that It was the "sawing" of branch
against branch that caused tho
flames. Hence the "friction" light.
The flint and steel and tinder box
SIlnprnoHofi wonrl frli'tlnn nnJ that
jmproVement was also duo to obser
vation. It was seen that the chip-
ping of the Hints for arrow heads
produced spark8i and henco the evo.
i "lighter."
After a series of attempts crude
I forerunners of the automatic lighter
' " " "" """"" 6s
' tZ" 1 1
I ... "..
The next match was the Prome
thlan. The tip of this was made of
' call' , I ,' , ' .
and. the. VhmUs acid necessary, to
mane it nre was, witn some oi tno
'
paste, in a glass bead.
mjs cumnerous metnoawas auper-
seded in 1832 by the friction match
proper. It was ignited by being"
drawn through folded sandpaper.
This was a phosphorous match, and
was but a variation of the friction
principle. These matches were dan-'
Igerous and poisonous.
I After a time came the safety
match, as we know it. A change in.
, phosphoru8 br0UBht about tho
"safety.'- to the -workers1 and' th(
users.
--
i UMI I ATTpMDT
IF ILL rt I I Lull 1
RESCUE OF HIS GREW
SIR ERNEST SHACKLETON WILI
GO SOUTH ON MISSION OP
RELIEF.
London, July 10 (12:03 a. m.).
A Reuter dispatch from Buenos Aires..
S3V3 ttl&t Sir -EmeSt SllftpW lfltOrL . fil-
- rescue the main body of his Aflarctie-
expedition. He will sail oh the
schooner Emma.
Sir FV.inat SlmnMolnll litld tnailn
two vain attempts to rescue his for
mer comrades, The last effort was
made ln a steamer furnished by tho
Uruguayan Government, but the ship
was unable to make her way through
the Ice and had to return. Twenty-
two men have been in an ice cave on
Elephant Island since April 15. At
that time they had only flvo weeks'
day, ordered tho removal of tho offl-
CCS of the Kentucky TubOTCUlOSU
ces of tho Kentucky tuberculosis
houBod In tho office ot the Clerk of
the Senate.
- r
Loans wanted in Muhlenberg, Mc
Lean, Daviess, Webster, Butler -and
Ohio counties on good first-class real
estate for-5 years. . .. ,
". W. II, PARKS,
50tt
Hartford, Ky
