' V
aI im " muoh ndterils,n,,t v?,uo, ln STl I -SlBfe8iMBSy ADVERTISE JH
1 1 Hi " k..cv The tncrohnnt w ho linn lit 8 I yCClKCKMtIHKljVf,MllHfe -rN. w .A. . .... u ' tlHI
J "".frlUh horseshoes In thojnnl IK I 1 Sl TfcTT'WSL P4BSS $fci fell Hver) store hn some one who I Jl
sa w v. .Int.. nr tn an niiini m V I II II :3 a !IHH'3VsVreiS? 5fcV ill ill IB ' ill more or los Interested In pushing the rHl
1 fe- "? S rrt srasiWr b 4- ass -"arts -saw s M
tl nltur of ' u""0.9" "".?,," Vi PHI ITIPAI I V nrnimi lAAKI right w a) he can make of that bull- 'ilsH
S.l bc TV .JAlV tibC rn. .. r'ULITICALLY, REPUBL CAN. nea, n vcr) decided enlargement and V
- The mora, U-DVMmHK IW .. nd clftM ,,, 4 J f y , mnkf , elf n ver) mnrkcd .d-
-Wir-- ' ' ' . IMBhK EVERY 1'KIDAY JULY II, 191G wU
llPILONS SET
1 CONVENTION DATE
r lW0BTllNorilM.In
ii cn - I'owitTnnv.
" va (nil lor Ogilcn, August Htli,
is for 0'it '"""n Stnlc Clinlrninn
ninlr flml wrtlnrr "imitnliiB
u Muntln) lc Tor Senator
-swot l liiil of lteprcciiliitloii.
TM official cnll nnd npportlonnitnt
lliUfrtr for the republican stnte
rtirttitlon in Ogdcn. August 8th. was
wvJ ll Moml l the republican
ut committee signed l) vice chair
ijjohn K Hard) nml Hecn tnr) II
I, Cummlng". Tho convention will
tilit of U hundnd nnil (went)
t it Iritntt s. the apportionment be
M on the bnsi f one delegate for
r..rr nlnetr votes tnst for Heed
laoot, republican candidate for Fnl
trfgutes senator. In 1914.
ne convention wn designated to
Mktkt In Ogdcn, August 8th or fth.
utAuiruft lh tim flnnll) detcrmln
j upon, nfli r the stnte, rommlltee
Milt hml conferred llh the Welier
4intr memlw r of tho- committee, C
I. HolllnROMorth It Is to do the Mic
ft))b!lcan Innimnrnl of the political
utptltn, since. It will nomlnnle the
4Wtes for Knernor, t'nltcd Klntes
MUr srrntnry of stnte, stnte ail
mat itAte trensurtr, nttorne) Kill
iraene Junllie of the supremo otirt,'
ml jrrlntendenl of public In
tnrtlon nnd four presidential cle
i i. Also It will chooso n ripuhll
u utr rnmmlttee to sre durlnK
'MnmlnK two )rnrs
Thf rsll Instrutts rcpuMlinn come
committers to iirmtiRe for ionnt
4irntlns or prlmnrlis to eleit tin
4)ntrs to the rtiilo KMtherlliK Mn-
t II 1' Mttou ihnlrtniin of the re
nMlii lotnmlttie for the setonil
-(rrnlinnl dlstrlit. will miikc n
tifor prlnutrliH nt the Kime time
u the Mntr prlmnrlis, to edit dilc
ritii to the (oiiKreMiloiml nomlnn-
U contention This meitlliK will I"
ViJInfalt Ijike Clt the dn follow -
t the t ntntlon
Tho sppurtlnnnu nt of iteh Kates to
It Hale convention, by tountles, Is
Vfi Hr Ihnwr, 9, llox Klder, 3&!
ith ; Ciirbon, II: Davis. 19: On-
e 10, Finer). : (Inrfleld, 7;
ltd " Iron, II, Jirnb, H. Kline, C;
yuitrd 1 Morxnn. 6, 1'luti, 3.
Kb, ( Kilt l-nkc. 1X7. Hnu Juiin, 3
'Mxte 31 Holer, SO, Huinmll, 16.
VhI IS, I'lntnh, , t'tnh 87, V
Nth, n, U'liMhlnKtou, , Vn)ni, i,
"!r CO Totnl, o:t.
The stnte (omiultttn will meet nt
xJn nt 10 o'clock tho mornlnif of
i convention
smuel A Klnir, ileleicnte lit the r
at ilrmninitlo nntlonnl convmtlon
Ult, Unils Is home nfter nn extend
"J Ulp tlirmmli tho Knst lie broUKht
rtport of Komrnl support for Prul-
Wilson nnd the pnsoit nntlonul
4ralnl.tratlon nnd of ntmosl un
Un srntlmint throughout th
juatrj for pence, "As Iour ns we lire
ti ii void wnr," KlnK Mid. '1
tHm4 llie sentiment to bo that we
louM Mvold It Not avoid It lit mi)
I t at nn honorable prlie I
uml iroplc rindy to flKht Mexico If
"re found nictssnr), but nil wnnt
f to lt until there In no other w.
"uldrnt Wilson Is stronKl) support
ti vr u hi ro In the Kiist. Ills re
ftlon Ii iilrt-ml) miuVded" !
'tt Sen mh
CMIUert I. Olson Is l( InK nuntlomd
hlo friends ns n llkel) cnndldnte for
w Ocmoirntlo nomination for United
utfi Sfnntor from Utnh Olson Is
" !rrpnritl to ininounie himself ns
1 indlilate nt this sUiKeof the Kami.
"It l known Unit tin Iiiih nUmltteil
J' nl frit tills thut should III iiiudl--r
I urKid hi will umki the rim.
" (intlrnmn Is n Knit Uiko City
itrnf nnd it brotlur of I'ostmnster
" "!! of J'rlie
Juhn t liicu) iltnles the rumor
s h In oi, iiroiiliititl durlnir tho
t ftvv iIidh tlint he Ims wlthdruwn
"om tin rui-o for the republican
mlnntl jii for (.ovirnor. Ho m
wt h intiniU to ko Into tho mnven-
nnd fiuiit for a place on the
' l"t
!firiii um from Cuehe, Carbon,
"rl-l nnd Tooeto tountles ricint
sllfil nt the henduunrtrfre of 8en
' Hutherlnnd In Ball 1-uko Olt)
w Infiirnud tho stuff hendqunrtcrs
"fr that thilr imintles would sup-
ft the st-iintor for tho nomlnutlon
fjrceuj J,,nie)f
There are now four rnndldales for
" 'nnn sslonnl nomination In thu
" nd dlstrkt All llvo In Salt Ukv
un'J. The) are Albert It Harms
iim11"1 attorney Kenernl, T. I.
''man now Ueput) secretary of
"i James Devlnc, now superluten
J "t of the ntnto ctpltol. and W. 1!.
dl h u ion nttorney,
T Moon, proBrewilve national
""niltiemnn front Utah, has do-
ail an Invitation front Norman
Puo,i fnmtorly idltor ut arlous
'"a or Collier,, and Harpers week-
. lit take the lead In organlxlns
iii brniuh of tho Woodrow Wilson
'"wpenduit league A tclecraphli
Patc ti InvltlnK him to take the In-
u u, this Ntate In the league or-
MI"Ulan. wn retelved b) Mr Moon
m Hnigoid Ho telegraphul baik
, WHY LIMIT IT TO THE RURAL DISTRICTS7
o 1 ... 1
Nows Not. Cprto sy bad rosdi caui mors Inisnlty.
his detMnntlon of the Imitation, ex
plaining that his duties. Hillllrnl)
nnd In it ImslnesM way would hnnlli
permit of his Htrtlilmlli)n In the
vi Minn
I'rognwilvni nml demoirnts will
hold sriKtnits conventions In t rt- Third
JmlltlMl itl.trltt iiiHHit .MiKiist :lh
whin n Judicial llikit Mil be iinmeil
S Idle each part) will meet separate!)
It Is sold that lith will nmne the
wmi candidates,
H.ilt IjiUk count) demoiruts nnd
prngn-Hilvi'S are tr)lng to get tiiether
on a fusion ticket for count) of flics.
Sevirnl iiiuferenres of ntrt) lenders
hnve r.elitl) lieill held Willi tills ob
ject In vliw Koinithlng deflnlle will
be known iiltur this (FrbbDl ivm
lug whin a final imwwow Is to Ii
hi Id
l)r II H. I'loward Is president of
tin filing Mens lit publican ituli re
eentl) organliwl at I'rlee. Orson Oil)
mon vlie preslilnil. Joseph I. Mc
Knight, seen tnr). and Oscar Hansen,
treasurer Tlw exos'utlve eommlttii
consists of Orson T llrooks. Allien
Fair It J TurmrandA II llunlen
Chameii for the democrats and the
progressives of I'tnh and Salt iJike
lount) to bring bImiui a fusion are
reported slight
Aulve vvork for the nomination of
Ii. K. J.nklns for govirnor on the n
pulllcnn tlckit Is expected to stnrt
about Jul) :0lh aeoordlng to A V.
Kessltr, who Is mnnnglng the cam
IHiIgn iuno(,rits In Salt like i It) expwt
to gt I together shnttl) and decide on
n lundldate for Mivrrnor. and then
nnke suih nn nppiMtl to him as win
Iniliiu him to permit the use of his
mini regardless of his IntllnHllon or
illsliiellnall in lo do so.
Tin i all for the npublban con
Krisslonal lonventlmi for the nomina
tion or a eoiigresMimn from the Hei
ond Congressional "trlct was Issueit
Tu.sil.) last b II I'- V,.,,""'iM,aV
man of tho committee of the dlslrkt
I ho call announces that the ci.nv.n-
lion will I h I'l f1" iMk" ( "'
irtthleglnnlng at 1 JO o'clock
In "he afterniHth The conv. n Ion v I
consist f three hundreil and six!)-
four delegates.
Ilarr) H Joll '" tM"
B e to the republleati natlo.l con
t, utlonfro.nl tah and who vote.1 for
Thiodore llmisMflt for president. Is
horn, from visit In th. h-rt
aiimiuneiil that he will wpport
Hughes sl.i-e he was the nominee of
the convention
I ineoln O ICell) slate auditor, has
an, uneeJ hi -inUW "r he r
ml lean nomination for secretar) f
late Kelt) servwl one term as dep
oil statt amlltor before being ihosen!
nuillt r He taniu.t aspire to re
Son a. state wdltor beeau.e of a
constitutional provision
s uhl I. Morris spent part of Bat
nrdM In I'ru o wtlliw "eup on
' L a 1 situation as It may fft
him in hli candldae) for governor.
I. tiers b the score arc llng re-
Prof Bnoclt Jorgenson of Bandy
ten.t of ' P " ' wai at one
;;, Prm?-Pra. TZ PUM schools
NO COUNTY PAIR THIS FALL
There will be no Carbon-Emery fair thto fall. It Iiiih been
postponed until next year. "After consultitiK with the county
commissioner of both Carlxm nnd Emery counties," says Prof.
Robert E. Stewart, county farm demonstrator and ncnt of thu
department of iiKrlculture at WaHhhiKton, D. C, "It was thoujjht
mh liable to miss this ear and to begin now to lay full plans for n
very fine fair next enr.
"County funds nre ery low In inch county, thu crops arc not
the most cncournj?lnK due to the bad, cold, backward spring.
Again, it is presidential year. Money is tighter, and, while nil in
i.ll It might pay, it is believed best to miss one year. Thu people
of our counties see the worth of tounty fnlrs, and will bo much
more enthusiastic in having one nfter missing one year.
"Tills ear's assessment will nay off all outstanding Indebted
ness, and conditions will be excellent for a good fnlr next cnr
11)17. Farmers next spring should prepnro for the coming year,
ns It Is now decided definitely to renew the fair In nineteen seventeen."
T
at I'rlci Of late )enr he has lcen
more nr less promlni nt In polities.
Juab count) republicans Inti ml
sending a solid delegation to tho re
publHtn state convintlon to bo held
at Ogden August Kth, Instruct! d for
T, ( Winn of Niphl. who Is a candi
date for the republican nomination
for slate treasurer Juab county has
not bent represented on u republican
tic kit for n numbi r of )ears and Winn
Is tin on!) candidate for any nomin
ation on the republican ticket from
Juab count). Itepiihllinns believe ho
would make a strong candidate for
the state treasure rshlp
Thomas It McMillan of l'rlce an
nouiiie through The Bun this week
as a candidate for sheriff of Carbon
count) McMillan Is a lifelong repub
lican and n eltUeit here going on six
)ears His name Is not to be con
fused with that of A. I. McMulten, a
vcr) oxieltmt gentleman avid nlwi n
candidate for the nomination to the
same office,
offhers of tin florosls at I'rlie have
called a muling of all members of
ilulxi In Carbon and Kmer) counties
for Thursda), Auuust 10th. nt the
club rooms In I'rlco to form a ills
trlct federation
I'rogrpestvoH of Utah will dlihiind
as n part) nnd all members will be
urged to enter tho republican conven
tions In I ho state If plans nt the lend
ers are carrlnl out Is the news from
Bait lke til) this (I'rlda)) moru
la. It Is expected that It It Klrkpat
rick, count) chairman, will call a con
vention of republicans at I'rlco for
I August 7th, noxt, to name foutteun
I delegates to tin state convention at
Ogdc li
M t.KVIIM. Itlil ro
iMoiti'onvii. itMin hiiiuii:
Artlelca of Incorporation of a stock
company to promote tlin Interests of
I dittoing In the state as outlined b)
I the sub-committee appointed for the
purpose were approved by the eom
'mlttee of business men appointed by
dov William Spry to old tho Industr)
at a met ting hld last Tuesda) at Salt
Uke City
I The articles will be presented to
the banker of tho ell) nnd state b
the committee at a meeting whleh will
le held this (Friday) afternoon
The purpose of tho organization Is
.to provide for loans to the small far
'iner to pirmlt him to Invest In u 11m
Ittd number of dnlr) cattle and there
t, upbuild tho dairy Industr) In the
slato.
No attempt to market, dairy prod
u U Is coi templated In the plan
t 1
VOUNd REPUBUCJINS
Hice ptlonnll) (iImmI Meeting In I'rlfo
last halunluy l.'ttulng,
It was a large and enthusiastic
crowd that surged Into the dining
room of the Savo)' last Saturday night
about I o'clock members and guests
of the Young Mill's Itnpubllcnii club
of l'rlce 1'latts wca set for sixty
five and there vvi ro no vacant chairs.
At the. suggestion oi Attorniy U A,
McOce nil coats were removed Home,
olio suggested that 'Coats Off bo
ailopteel ns the s'ogan of tho c lub and
It wits 40 done iinnnlmousl),
After disposing of it sumptuous
bniuiuet and a conxlcli ruble iiuantlty
of excellent punch, Toastmaster I. A
McQeo took charge of thu gathering
and called on a number of ' thoso
present' for short talks, first reading
u loiter from Attorney J W Chirr),
candidate for Judge of the Seventh
Judicial district, oxpri using his rei
gn t ut being unable to accept the In
vitation of tin e luh o be present and
expressing his good wishes for the
sut cess of tlm organisation
Dr. It K Clouurd as president of
Ibo i lob tf uliiimi il the cm Mia unit dis
cussed the purposes of the club, J F.
U Knight spoke on the Institution us
a political fiu tor, Oscar Hanson out
lined brltfly the history of the re
publican part) and II It Klrkpatrlck,
chairman of the republican county
1 1 iitrul committee, dill vend a mes
sage of good finer from the camps
and outlying districts of Carbon
county.
Frcdtrlck K Woods, candidate on
the republican ticket for district nt
torney of thu Sqventh Judlclul dis
trict, artistically dullvered a left hand
ed eulogy on Wilsons foreign policy
and Judge A J, Iao enumerated some
of the failures of tho present national
administration's Internal policies W
M McCrect, a Salt Irfike City attor
ney spoko on tho 'Achievements,
I'osslbllltles and I'rospects of the
Urnntl Old Party" Thu speaker was
handicapped for time, owing to thu
lateness of the hour, but he made a
rousing talk that was well received
Carl It Marcuson followed with a few
well chosen remaVks an to the repub
lican party being nlwu), one of action
tho party that does things All the
speakers were roundly ni pluuded and
heartily eheer d throughout their
talks and between ouch of the num
bers Toastmaster McOeo aJded est
to the occasion with witty quips und
comments
Thu Bun lust Baturda) afternoon
had a toliphono inessagu from J 1!
Ula)ton campaign manager for Sen
ator Ocorge Sutherland stating that
the former ixpccted to Ic In Frice at
MANGLED IN HELPER I
YARDS, WEDNESDAY I
Kennedy, Son of C. Ii. Cody, Dies On Special ,jl
Train While Being Rushed to Hospital
For Surgical Attention. . .1
C Kenned) Cod) rtgeit lit ) ears nml
the win of Mr and Mm ,V II Cod) of
Helper met with A mnt shocking ni
tlilmt that a fw hours later termina
ted In death at that'totvn about I 30 '
o'clock Inst Wedneedn) afternoon
Ills right forearm was mangled to nl- .
most a pulp at the elbow ns were both '
legs Just below the hips. Immediate
I) following the accident nml nt five ,
minutes to ft o clock the )oung innn
was phued aboard n spclal train
with the Intention of taking him to
St Mnrk's Hospital at Salt Kak Clt),
but whe n the station of Itlo, Just this
side of Thistle, vvns rent tied dentil
lame to relieve him.
Hliite coming homo front Wasatch
aiadeui) at Mt Fleasaut tills )enr,
the ) oiittg man hnd been employed nt
the Denver and I tie. Oraiutn station nt
lltltier tinder his -father ns bill clerk
Whin nn extra 'rain came In from the
west Wcdnosdn) afternoon he nt
tempti tl to Jump on tho enhoose ns It
pnssed the depot to get the wn) bills
r the train front the rotuluitor
Young Cod) missed his hold on the
cahooMi rods about the steps. Two of
the caboose's wheels passu! over the
arm anil legs ns nbovn staled
Dr F tt Hlopanskc), Denver and
Itlo (Inutile surgeon at Helper, was
ipilckl) upon the mine following the
incident nnd nrconipnulrd the sped it
train VIcn Thistle was reached ho
broke thu news b) wire of tho )oung
man's death to thu parents ut Hel
per. The latter were to hnve fol
lowed the speclnl on the first pnsson
grr train west The) Inter, howevur,
wnil In In Salt Uike City )t sterility
morning The funeral will be held
from thu K. V Hall chaptl tomorrow
nftt moon
Mali) friends of the ) tiling man
nnd the famll) nt Helper nnd else
where will go to Salt ltkn City to
morrow (Saturday) morning llurlal
will bo nt Mt. Olivet, where Mr. and
Mrs. Coil) have a plot Kenneth
Cod) was a most (stlmnble oting mnn
and hnd a bright future before him.
He was popular, courteous, tho soul
of honor und was held In tho ery
highest esteem by all those with whom
he i itme In contact. The Sun with
maii Frit n friends of the family
grbves with Mr and Mrs Cody In
tliilr sorrow.
Tho most horrible thing In conttee
tlm with thu tic plorable accident, und
which words cannot express, was
that the father was standing at n
window of the depot and saw his son
lllc rally ground to pieces It occur
red within flft) feet of the father
back mrriE east
Mining Htperl He turns fler An b
m oti of Four Months.
John II, I'orresttr, of the englnri r
lug und contracting firm of Forrester
A lger nt Price, has I ecu back In
Carbon count) about it wtek after an
absent i of s'yno four mouths In an
i Humiliation of the coal fields of
Tennessee, West VlrgiiiTlt und Ala
Iniiiui for some big Hastern Interests
He also made a stud) of opt rating
itista and mining conditions general
I) as well ns stud)lng the labor situ
ation Ills business took him to New
iurk Clt) a couple of times, where he
saw II U Carpenter, formorl) vlre
preside ut and general manager of the
Fulled Slates FuVI compan) Tho
lutter has a fine position In (iotham
nnd Is well pleased with his surround
ings At no place did he find mine more
up tti date than thu several Utah
properth In this section of the state.
The Utnh management are second to
none la the mutter of safeguarding
their emplo)es, Utah operators be
lieve In uctlou and not so much In
publicity, tunui tho excellent physi
cal condition of their proptrtles.
While thu trip wn a profitable and
pleureable one. Forrester Is glad to
git home, where he found plenty of
work to do that had accumulated
during his absence
tho banquet How over things came
up at Zlon 'which prevented thu com
ing of Clayton to Price He Is private
sicretar) tj Senator Sutherland
.
t to lesn&MP M
Sugar Fnc lory Coming If Denver nml 'H
Itlo (Irnnilo dels Un). ! H
J jH
IB
Thtimns It Cutler, vice prcsl- JH
dent and ginernl manager, an- "H
poiinretl )esterdn) nt Salt !.nko t tH
Clt) thnt the I'tnh-ldahn Sugar 1 jH
company will build a sugar fnc-
tor) In Hniery count) providing H
4 the Denver nnd Itlo (lrnntlo will 4 'il
construct a I ranch linn from )itH
4 Price, (went) -eight miles south, 11
to haul Iwils to the factor). 4 hlH
Hxiurlments show that Finery 4 I H
und Carlxm counties produce as , H
good ii grade of beet as nny sec- 4 H
tlon of tho state sns this (Frl- H
tla) morning's llrratd-ltcpubll- iH
can (
Farmers who have urged thu
sugar company to build were told fH
that It must first be shown thnt f
the rupilrcd amount of acreage H
would be plantid to ktep a fao- VH
tor) supplied with beets und nl- I 'aH
so thnt n railroad must bu run j 11
to the fit Ids Itepurts rerelvetl by . . H
4 tin I tnh-ldahu Sugar company ,'3ffl
vrc re to the i ffeet that the neees- 4 t yl iH
4 snr) nc n age had lietn signed up ! j,H
li) Hit Carbon and Kmer) eviunly Jmim
4 farmers but that the Diuvernnd I l)
Itlo (Iranile had not ns )et given IhIH
an nnswir to the petition for the 4 IvPH
I much line If iniiH
The factor) would tout In the tfkLa
nelghlHirhooil of tl 000,000 mid iHlH
would be eqlllpptd With tile lu- f JMi
test mai bint r) Cutler said tho j "sml,!
sugar company could not build i ? Hilil
tho factor) units the ritllroai' f ijl
4 lompimy builds the brunt h line, 4 n1H
i un II Is too costl) to haul beets 111 j . ll
wngnns any great dlstanee. 4 jnH
Finery lount) fnrmi rs are ciH
pi rfectlug an organisation to ex- i 1 I IH
f tend aid to the Denv7r and Itlo ) ft IIH
(Irande In building the twenty- fjgH
tight miles of road, whlili would A faH
. pass through Castle Date and 4 j IH
Huntington ' 1S)H
.' WM
CuMMISSjONERS jfl
Ctuiolili rablo llusluesi Tnilisai leel At i ' Vl
laisl TiicmI) Mi-cllng ! r JJ
All three of the count) eonunls- , ',' JH
slomrs. J. It Sharp, V T Hamilton ? SjM
und Albert llr)nrr were present at ' j IH
last Tuesduy'a mi ellng of the tioard, V jH
Arthur J U and Prof It II. Stew- HH
art were present to consult with the I t Jlffffffffm
hoard as lo the advisability of hold- 1 i IH
Ing a c mini) fair at Price this full 4 lH
There Is an Indebtedness from last 'IH
juir of iiroiind five hundred dollars J 'MH
This together with reient n pairs on (iH
the fair grounds buildings mndu It l&iLI
Imiuisslble to allow any appropriation ijBiiil
from public funds. Finery county's IKI
commlsslotiirs have also signified 'iSiil
their Intention of making no appro- litaTiiH
prlatlnn fvil
On motion of Commissioner llamll- ' iflll
ton Carbonvllle voting tireclnet Is , , llH
iibollshed and uddid to Price. Car- I.TjIlJjH
bon Is tacked on to Helper and Utah ,HH
Mine to Scofleld All ordlnnnie to this ; 'MH
effect wus ordered drawn mid Is to illiH
be published lit the three newspaper ilfiviH
of the county 1 tSiiiiiifl
Clerk llorsley was ordered to draw I tflH
a warrant In favor of the state road i faiil
lominlMlnn out of the general fund j BH
for five thousand dollars. Also to Is- T'liiifl
sue warrants for count) road work h H
Jimlltes reports from Kcnllworlh W 1
and Sennoside were submitted and s: flfl
approved The reports or the treas- ( 3 H
unr clerk recorder und sheriff i yjl M
wen also npprov id anil ordered riled iImR H
The eluim of J J llurke ft Co of Un" M
Salt iJike Clt), amounting to 180 04. $ JB
Interest on iinpnltl iHilance for Helper pi 1
bridge work In HUB, wan allowed 1 M
The clerk waa ordrreil to Issue a war- , . 'M
rant for thu amount Tf jH
I.ltiior liceusoM were granted lu II. ,V ' 'HH
Flalm of Htlper, Anton Dupln of L '. 1
Spring Oh u and to Joe. Mlgllore and f ' mM
Fred Utroher the Inlter two at Bun- 4i I MH
n)slde The boiidorl (J laser at Sun- ril j 'M
n) side as u retainiiiuor dealer wu re- 91 j B
leased nt the request of tlm bonding at j H
compan) Olaser gives bond to the f WlffffM
town of Sunnsde slme thu latter jl : IH
wus Incorporated jWL H
An ordluaucu was passed to pre- 81 n
vent tho spread of rabies and ono also 9P WIjjjM
i as to the registration of dogs. jfl aH
An adjournment was taken subject 11 BH
, to the call of Com nlMnner llryner, if A JEPV
Owlm. to the Immense activity at BtiliH
'the smelters ut different point west .i
I of us. sens IMporN Time of Ut Frl- rflaifl
I du) Immense quantities of Colorado fnfiLiliii
coke are being shipped through here fBJkiiiiiiil
to suppl) the demand at thoso places jtssKiiiiiH
Thu Suiinsldu iiilnen and coku oven iSKiH
aro working to capaclt), but cannot ISiiiisiB
I keep the smelters supplied inlil
