The Echo has a
reading circulation
ot over 4.000 per
sons who trade in
Leavenworth. Aa
vertise and increase
your business.
Vol. 13. No. 28
SNOW INTERFERES IN
SURVEY OF ICICLE ROAD
Ten to Twenty feet Deep in Jack Creek
Valley—Mining Expert to Mines4his
Week—Others Coming.
Mr. Van Epps, accompanied by Mr.
W. J. Elmendorf, a mining engineer
with offices in the L. C. Smith build
ing, Seattle, left for the head of Jack
creek Wednesday where the mining
property is located. Mr. Van Epps
said the extraordinary snow of the past
winter is seriously hampering their
operations. Not only the survey for
the proposed railroad but some work to
be done in the mines. While in Seat
tle he was advised by some of his em
ployes that the snow had not ye dis
appeared from Jack creek valley and
on the hills, so that it is impossible to
carry on the work on the mining prop
etty or do any surveying until the snow
disappears. It will be recalled that
here in Leavenworth the snow fall
amounted to almost 24 feet the past
winter, and up in the region of Jack
creek the fall could not have been less
than a hundred feet and possibly twice
that much. No one knows exactly,
only they do know that nothing like it
ever occurred before in a hundred
years, according to the records of the
Hudson Bay Company. Mr. S. O.
Stewart, a sheep man who grazes flocks
in the forest range in this region says
that an unusual amount of snow still
covered the high mountains and hills
and is seriously interfering with the use
of range heretofore found bare of snow
by the middle and often by the first of
June.
Mr. Van Epps says he has a contract
with the company of which Mr. Neilson
is the head, to build the road to the
mines but he cannot overcome natural
obstacles and will have to wait until
the snow disappears sufficiently to go
to work. Surveying the route and
making a map is one of the preliminary
steps to the granting of the right of
way by the forestry department. He
says he has every confidence in Mr.
Nelson carrying out his part of the
agreement.
Mr. Van Epos expects a number of
parties from the east who are interested
in the mining property to arrive here
next week and go up to the property.
A lot of provisions, including four cases
of eggs were sent out to the camp the
last of this week.
Block System for Blewett Road
Because of the tremendous travel
over the Blewett pass since the rush
for filing on Colville lands begun July 5
the county commissioners have installed
what is known as the block system on
the Blewett road until after the land
rush is over. Last Thursday 108 autos
passed over the road, beside some
horse drawn vehicles. At times the
road was blocked because there were
not enough turnouts and Road Over
seer Parish spent considerable time
getting the blockade raised. Ever
since the 6th of the month the travel
has increased. On Monday 175 ma
chines passed over the road. By the
new order of the county commissioners
at certain points machines will be al
lowed to go in one direction only for
one hour, followed by the road being
open to travel in the opposite direction
for one hour, and so on thru the day.
By this means it is believed the con
gestion will be relieved.
Please Notice
This is to notify the public that all
accounts due the^Sanitary Meat Market
are in the hands of J. W. Elliott for
collection. Please call and settle.
2829
Father o'Rafferty who went to Se
attle to attend the funeral service of a
priest, is now in the Providence Hjs
pital where he went to have an oper
ation performed on his throat.
L. W. Woodrow, G. N. agent, spent
Tuesday and Wednesday on the sound
returning Thursday moruing.
Uhc Xeavenvvoctb J£dfe-o
New Warehouse Will Soon Be Ready for
Business
The Motteler warehouse is rapidly
approaching completion. The base
i ment, or first story walls are complete
and the joice set in position. Work
on the second story walls will begin this
week and rushed to completion. The
construction will make the warehouse
frost proof. It is built of brick thruout
I with a two inch air space between the
inner and outer walls. Mr. Motteler
has arranged to handle the apples and
such other fruit as will be shipt from
Leavenworth this season. The ware
house is conveniently located and ac
cess from three sides will be provided.
MC KEOWN ACQUITTED
TWO CHARGES TUESDAY
Wenatchee Physicians Testify that Under
Similar Circumstances They Would
Have Prescribed Whiskey
Charged on two counts with unlaw
fully prescribing spiritous liquors, Dr.
A. Royal McKeown was tried before
Magistrate Guilford Marr in Wenatchee
on Tuesday and acquitted. The state
produced evidence showing that he
had prescribed two pints of whiskey to
patients of his on or about Jane 29th
in violation of state prohibition law.
For the defense Mr. G. H. Hannon
introduced the evidence of several
Wenatchee physicians who testified
that under similar circumstances they
would have prescribed whiskey. Dr.
Congdon testified that he never pre
scribed whiskey for his patients but
that a physician had a right to do so,
if in their judgment hey needed whis
key. One of the officers of the court
told a representative of The Echo that
out of one hundred prescriptions on
file with Leavenworth druggists calling
for liquor 74 had been issued by Dr.
McKeown and 26 by Drs. Judah and
Hoxsey.
In a statement made to the court by
Dr. McKeown he said he knew of
three parties in Leavenworth who were
selling booze and would subscribe
money to help put them out of busi
ness, and further said he would him
self henceforth refuse to prescribe
liquor if he had cause to suspect it was
to be used as a beverage.
Kicked to Death By Horse
Davy Phillips, a young man quite
well known here where he made his
home for a number of years met death
in a peculiar manner near Blewett
Tuesday about 12 o'clock. He was
engaged in logging for the Peshastin
Lumber Co. and was at work near
the Freyberger canyon, presumably
loading logs, when one of the horses
employed in the logging operations
kicked him, one hoof hitting him
squarely in the side of the head. Drs.
Judah and Hoxsey were called and
responded immediately but when they
arrived life was extinct. The Doctors
say death was instantaneous, his neck
being broken by the impact.
Young Phillips was well known here
and quite generally liked. Rather
small of stature and about 26 years
old he was unusually muscular.
Davy Phillips was a son of Mrs. Ezra
Brushea by a former marriage. He
has three sisters, Mrs. McCormick,
Blanch and Sylvia, and two brothers,
Theo and John who live with the Bru
shea family near Blewett. Funeral
services were held by Rev. Moore and
the remains were interred in the local
cemetery. It is said that they may be
removed to Cashmere later.
Later information about the way in
which he came to his death is to the
effect that he had unhitched his team
and fed the horses and in passing be
hind the team a vicious brute who
kicked a man last summer and almost
caused his death, let fly with his heels
and struck Phillips in the head, one
cork penetrating the skull near the
temple. That death was instantaneous
was shown when the wound did not
■ bleed at all, as is characteristic in such
I cases, says Dr. Hoxsey.
The Higher Up the Valley You Go the Bigger and Better the Apples Grow
Leavenworth, Wash., Friday, July 14, 1916
POnER WILL CONTINUE
TO POLICE THE TOWN
The Council Did Not Want a Change—
A Pest House Was Suggested—
Bills Allowed, $405.00.
The following members were present
at the council meeting Tuesday even
ing: Featherstone, Hale, Kugleman,
Miller, Seeley and Snyder. As it was
understood there might be something
doing, more than the usual number of
people were on hand to hear the de
liberations ol the city fathers. If they
were looking for any great display of
fireworks and explosion of bombs they
were certainly disappointed, as the
meeting developed nothing more ex
citing thsn copping of Roman candles.
After disposing of bills amounting to
$405.00 a communication was read
from Mr. Estabrook, in which he re
quests permission to operate a popcorn
wagon on the corner of Eighth and
Front streets. The request was granted.
Mr. Mclntosh asked council to have
a card posted at the end of the We
natchee river bridge notifying sheep
herders to keep out of the city limits
when herding their flocks. A band of
sheep recently herded in the east part
of town played havoc with some gar
dens in that vicinity. The card was
ordered and will be placed on the big
tree near the bridge.
At the suggestion of Health Officer
Judah that the city should have a place
to care for contagious diseases, the
matter of purchasing a house was
brought up. A three-room house on
the bank of the river near the dam can
be had for 870. It stands on Lamb-
Davis property and a committee w?s
appointed to confer with the officials of
that company and see how long the
city could have use of the ground.
Mayor Day then brought up the
matter that has been under discussion
for some time, that of making a change
in the office of marshal. He said many
complaints had come to to him in re
gard to the failure of Marshal Potter to
do his duty in enforcing the dry laws,
and that he was now ready to take
some action. He said he had a man
in view who had been strongly recom
mended and who would agree to clean
up the town at a salary of $90 per
month. He explained that it was
necessary to change a section of the
ordinance fixing the salary, to pave the
way for putting on a new man. He
then put the matter squarely up to the
council, me of the members of which
had urged this step repeatedly. This
brought out considerable discussion
and some warmth. Mr, Potter pleaded
his own case and made many excuses
for the condition of things. In the
course of his remarks he made the
claim that every man in Leavenworth
was a law-breaker, and that he was go
ing to see that every ordinance on the
statute books was enforced, hereafter.
(Here's hoping he will). He plead
so well that when Kugleman made the
motion to change the ordinance fixing
the salary, so that the mayor could ap
point his man, it was lost for want of
a second.
Because, as Mr. Potter stated, that
he was on duty only half of the time,
and consequently could see only half
that was going on, Snyder moved that
an extra man be put on. This also
lost out for want of a second. After
a little more hot air and pleasant ex
change of personalities the matter was
dropped.
A communication from Attorney
Whitney stated Mr. Frank Reeves has
been retained by Seaman & Quigg
and that in going over the complaint
he had only found three objections.
It also states that the case will come
up for consideration before Judge
Grimsbaw in September.
Council then adjourned.
Word has been received that a son
arrived in the W. W. Durham home in
Seattle Monday. Mrs. Durham is a
daughter of Mr. and Mrs. H. S. Me
Nett.
Young Man Has Arm Broken
On Monday last Deryl Motteler,
while driving his father's delivery
wagon in the vicinity of the creamery
was thrown from the wagon and had
his arm broken. The wagon hit a
large rock and the rebound of the
springs threw him over the side of the
wagon on hard ground and his arm
was broken at the elbow. Dr. Judah
reduced the fracture which he says
was quite seveie but hopes for his
early and complete recovery.
GERMAN SUBMARINE VESSEL
ARRIVED BALTIMORE SUNDAY
8500 Tons of Dye Stuffs—Passed Thru
English Channel---Will Load Rubber
and Nickel--Others Coming
Will the great German under-sea
boats aided by air craft determine the
result of the world's greatest war?
These questions are being asked and
often suggest themselves to the mind.
Last Sunday morning a thousand
ton submersible ship sailed into the
Baltimore harbor loaded with the much
needed dye stuffs of^Germany. Every
pound worth many dollars. The first
that have been received here since the
war began. Fifteen days, says Capt.
Koenig was required to make the pas
sage. It was wholly unarmed and the
trip was made without mishap. A
number of other boats of like con
struction will soon be in service. The
Deutchland, as she is called, passed
thru the English channel where hun
dreds of hostile war craft were in the
water, tho all on the surface, while
Deutchland passed under them in
safety, a most remarkable performance.
The boat is capable of remaining under
water four consecutive days. Only
90 of the 3,800 miles was made under
water. ____^
Coleman Ranch Raided by Mex
icans
From Nate Coleman, who was here
the past week this paper learned a bit
of Mexican news which never got into
the daily papers so far as we know.
Mr. Coleman's brother, T. A. Coleman
who resides at San Antonio Texas, and
like his brother and father is interested
in the lumbering business on eastern
! Texas, the latter in Missouri. T. A.
! Coleman, besides his saw milling busi
ness is interested in a cattle ranch 25
miles north of Laredo, Texas, on the
Rio Grande river. On the 29th of June
a band of Mexicans crossed river and
raided the Coleman r.inch and drove
off 80 head of horses. No other dam
age was done and no one was killed.
Picnic Dinner
A picnic dinner w.is enjoyed last
evening by a number of friends on the
lawn at the Hamilton home. Among
those present were Mr. and Mrs. W.
A. Tegtmeier, Dr. P. A. Snyder and
wife, A. G. McKeown and wife, Mr.
and Mrs. Carlquist, Mr. and Mrs. L.
O. Taylor, Mr. and Mrs. Hamilton,
Mr. and Mrs. C. A. Campbell, Mrs.
Allison, and Miss Bella McLean.
After the dinner the party attended
the Scenic Theater to see Billie Burke
in "Peggy."
Operated on at the Emergency Hospital
A. L. Haines brot his wife here from
Blewett where he is employed, on
Monday and took her to the Emergency
Hospital where she was operated on.
Dr. Congden, of Wenatchee, came
here to assist Dr. A. R. McKeown in
the operation. According to a state
ment made by Mr. Haines his wife is
suffering from a gangrenous affection
which made its appearance on her
ankle several years ago but has re
cently grown worse and an operation
had been decided on.
Mr. Thos. Logan returned Monday
from his wedding trip. Mrs. Logan
stopped in Spokane for a day or two.
They will soon set up housekeeping
in the Close residence North Side.
WHO IS RESPONSIBLE
FOR GILLIES' ESCAPE?
All Officers Out of City- Provided With
Steel Saw-- Automobile Waiting
Outside
The escape of John F. ("Jack")
Gillies, convicted of looting the state
industrial insurance funds of more than
820,000, and Henry Roberts convicted
of a statutory offence, escaped some
time between last Saturday and Sun
day morning from the Thurston county
jail. The trick was done with a steel
saw used to cut the head off a bolt in
the door and its removal. Outside
an auto was in waiting and in company
with Roberts Gillis made his get-away,
supposedly to Canada.
The interesting part is who furnished
Gillis with the saw? Who arranged
for the auto to be ready to spirit the
fugitives away? Why was the sheriff,
jailor and other custodians of the bas
tile off the job?
These and some other embarrassing
questions are being asked. He was
to have been taken to the Walla Walla
penitentiary July 14. July 10 he
escapes.
BUDGET Of STATE NEWS
Two decisions of first class impor
tance to all interests of the state were
del vered by the supreme court within
the past week. In one the high court
interprets the prohibition law to mean
that all liquor that may have been le
gally purchased in excess of the half
gallon of ardent spirits and of 12 quarts
of beer which the law allows to be
purchased every twenty days on per
mit by the county auditoi, may be
kept in possession when intended
solely for private consumption and not
for sale or barter.
The cases on which decision are
based came up from King county,
where the sheriff raided the living
apartment of John C. Eden at the
Rainier club in Seattle, and the home
of W. E. Boeing in the same city.
The raids occurred on January 17,
a week after expiration of 10 days
time allowed after the first of the year
for shipping all excess stocks of liquor
out of the state. Amounts of liquor
considerably in excess of the half gal
lon and 12 quarts were seized in each
place. Judge Ronald of King county
sustained the seizures, holding, how
ever that the liquor should be shipped
out of the state rather than destroyed.
Eight supreme court justices, in
cluding Chief Justice Morris, coincided
in the view under which the sheriff of
King county is ordered to restore the
seized liquors to Eden and Boeing.
Justice Fullerton, in dissenting, sustains
the prohibition law in every particular
as a clear and plain act forbidding the
keeping of an excess amount of liquor
for any purpose. He also holds that
the majority decision will make it im
possible to invoke the federal Webb-
Kenyon act under which railroads are
forbidden to carry liquors into a pro
hibition state, the reasoning being that
if the supreme court holds an excess
amount may be legally kept in posses
sion in this state, refusal to permit the
shipment of more than a half gallon or
12 quarts will become an interference
with interstate commerce.
The other decision relates to pro
posed initiative amendments to the
state industrial insurance act and the
state fish code. Both of which were
refused place on the ballot.
Hotel franklin Changes Manage
ment
The management of Hotel Franklin
has been taken over by Ray Ross, son
of Mrs. Losekamp andT.C. McDonnel.
Both are ambitious young men and
will make it their business to keep up
the reputation this house has earned in
! the past for first class service to its
| patrons.
A derailment at Priest river caused
Nos. 2 and 43 to be about four hours
late Thursday afternoon.
Our Job Printing
department is com
plete. It you want
High Class printing
at reasonable prices,
come to this office.
$1.50 Per Year
Millions of Fish Spawn and Eggs from
Twin Lakes
Manager Baldridge of the local fish
hatchery has spent considerable time
at Twin Lakes, some twenty miles
north of Lake Wenatchee, this spring,
and has taken approximately one and
a half million cutthroat trout eggs from
the two lakes. Last week he shipt
635,000 eggs to the coast and last
Saturday brot down from the same
point 300,000 eggs that will this week
be shipt to the same destination. He
has some four hundred thousand more
to ship. He says Twin Lakes has
more fish than any body of water he
has any knowledge of.
$1,000,000 U.S. CASH
fOR STATE HIGHWAYS
The Bill Appropriating Money For Good
Roads Has Been Agreed on in the
Senate and House.
By the terms of the new good roads
bill as finally agreed upon by the Hou^e
and Secate, approrJmaiely $1,000,000
will be available for building good roads
in the Stale of Washington during the
coming five years. If the amount ap
propriated for 1920 be continued each
year for the five years following, and I
think the amount is more likely to be
increased than decreased, more than
$3,500,000 will be available for road
building in our state during the next
ten years.
The only condition attached to the
use of this money is that the state
shall appropriate an amount equal to
the amount appropriated frcm the fed
eral treasury each year, and then arrange
for the state highway department to
agree with the Secretary of Agriculture
as to the particular roads upon which
the money shall be expended. The
bill which has finally been ?greed upon
is much more liberal in its terms and
the amounts appropriated, than the
bill which originally passed the House.
It appropriates 85,000,000 for 1916,
810.000,000 for 1917, 815,000,000
for 1918, 820,000,000 for 1919 and
825,000,000 for 1920. These appro
priations are to be apportioned equally
to each state according to area, popu
lation, miles of rural delivery mail
routes and miles of star mail routes.
Accarding to this method of apportion
ment, Washington will receive $73,
--250 in 1916, 8146,500 in 1917,
8219,750 in 1918, 8293,000 in 1919
and 8366,250 in 1920.
A new section was added to the [bill
for which I worked earnestly white it
was in conference, appropriating 81,
--000,000 annually for ten years to assist
in building roads within or partly within
forest reservations. Whenever any
state or county haying a forest reser
vation within its borders requests the
Secretary of Agriculture to co-operate
in the survey and construction of roads
on the forest reservation and is ready
to expend an amount equal to the
amount appropriated by Congress, the
Secretary of Agriculture is empowered
to proceed to co-operate in the building
of such roads.
The forest reserves of the country
contain 135,000,000 acres and more
than 11,000,000 acres of the State of
Washington are contained within those
reserves. Thus our state can secure
approximately one-twelfth of the 81,
--000,000 appropriated for building roads
on forest reservations each year.
I think that this good roads legis
lation will prove both popular and val
uable during the corning few years
and that whatever defects the new law
contains will be remedied when they
are discovered.
Grand Matron of 0. E. S. Will Be En
tertained
Mrs. Estella Mendenhall, of Seattle,
Grand Matron of Washington O. E. S.
will be here Monday evening July 17
to visit the Cascade chapter. All
members of the Order of Eastern Star
are urged to be present.
Mrs. Mendenhall will be the guest
'of Mrs. F. T. Motteler while here.
