VOL. LI.
CY YOUNG'S RECORD
mmmS rji ...... I
Two Sterling Pitchers of National Fame.
Cy Young's sterling pitching record may endure for all 'time. Only one
pitcher in the game today Christy Mathewson had a chance to eclipse it.
But the sun seems to be setting on Matty's major leaguo pitching life and,
wonderful as is his work, it cannot compare with that of the old war horse.
Young survived the terrific paco of 22 campaigns. He quit the game
along in 1910 or 1911, and retired to his farm after having taken part in 819
combats. Of these he won 508, giving him a grand pitching average around
,620 for the entire period.
At the end of the 1915 season Mathewson's record showed that over a
Btretch of 16 years under the big canvas he had worked in G14 games 205 less
than Young figured in. To equal Young's record lh games pitched, Mathewson
must remain in the majors at least six years longer a Beeming impossibility.
Mathewson has won 368 and lost 185 of his games. The others did not
figure in his won or lost column. Matty's grand average to date Is .665. Even
should he by some miracle remain in the major league spotlight until he has
pitched more games than Young, It Is beyond tho range of probability that he
can win 60 per cent of the remaining games. And that is just about what the
weakening arm must accomplish to beat the record of Young.
When one compares Young's record with that of Mathewson and the other
great pitchers of today, there comes the full knowledge of what an amazing
twirler was Old Cy a hurler whose like may never again illuminate and
glorify the baseball world.
DIAMOND
Ty Cobb is not hitting the ball at
his usual rate by any means.
"Curses" Jack Dalton is not doing
much villainous work in the American
league.
Joe Berger is playing great ball for
the Oakland team of the Pacific Coast
league this year.
The rumor that Walter Johnson is
to be traded to Cleveland has been de
nied by Mauager Griffith.
Ward Miller is playing in the out
field for the Browns right along now
and Tobin is on the bench.
It is a good thing for the American
league to have a change of leaders,
as it is having this year.
Al Wlckland is going back. He's
going further back each day. Noth
ing but the fence ever stops him.
Fans in St. Louis suggest that Field
er Jones call his Browns the Blues.
That's how the said fans feel these
days.
The grand old dope says Lajole iB
forty-one years of age, but you couldn't
make American league pitchers be
lieve it,
Joe Tinker, manager of the Cubs,
has announced his absolute retirement
as a player, and this time Joe says he
means It
With Hagerman gone Fohl Is now
paying more attention to Paul Des
Jardien, who gets a daily workout in
the bull pen.
Now that Chief Meyers has beat out
an infield hit, it's up to Oscar Stanage
to make good by tripling to left and
reaching first.
Roger Bresnahan's scheme for
speeding up ball games should also
help to keep a fellow from getting in
bad with the cook.
What's the difference between a
Pennant race and a wrestling match?
Answer: You can't figure out the
Pennant race In advance.
McHenry, the big pi&her recently
released by the Cincinnati club to
Richmond, has been winning consist
ntly since he wen to the minors.
"Now Some Bodies Have Leather
Tops Others, Ivory Tops." This eight
column streamer on a page devoted
w automobile news does not refer to
'tog Uodie,
NOT ENDANGERED
PICKING RUNNERS OFF BASES
Nick Altrock Established World's Rec
ord for Performing This Particu
lar Little Stunt.
Nick Altrock, in the opinion of
Fielder Jones, manager of tho St.
Louis Browns, was about the best
pitcher he ever had in picking men off
the bases.
It is a certainty that in Phils' open
ing game this year, Grover Cleveland
Alexander, pitching premier of the
National league, averted defeat for
himself by catching three of the
Giants off their bases. This stunt does
not compare at all with what Jones
says Altrock did when he was pitch
Nick Altrock.
ing out on the Pacific coast. "In one
game," says Fielder Allison, "Nick per
mitted 13 men to nick him for safe
ties and he caught 12 of the 13 off
base."
This is undoubtedly a world's rec
ord.
To Keep Heinle Peitz.
Manager Buck Herzog of the Cincin
nati Keds has decided to keep Heinle
Pelts as a warm-up catcher, even If he
has to sacrifice a second baseman to
stay in the 21-man limit. Peitz also
will act as coacher at third base, since
he knows enough not to touch a run
ner trying to score.
Jack Pfcister Wants Job.
Jack Pfeister wants to get back into
the game. The once famous southpaw
has been living on his farm down In
Ohio, and now says that his arm 1?
good enough to work.
Fielder Jones in Uniform.
Fielder Jones Is still wearing a uni
form and coaching from the linen,
LIBERTY, MISSISSIPPI, FRIDAY, JULY 14, 1910.
SERIOUS BALL PLAYER
Frank Snyder of Cardinals Is
Greatest Catcher in Game.
Discarded New Automobile Escause It
Interfered With Batting Smiled
Onco Vhen Donlin Tried
to Get His Goat.
Frank Snyder of the Cardinals is the
greatest catcher in baseball today, bar
none. John McGraw says so, and
there aro few fans who have seen Sny
der play who will deny what McGraw
says in this case.
A little incident previous to the de
arture of the Cardinals on their last
trip east last fall Indicates why Sny
der is a great ball player and why
he moans to stay one, says Sporting
News. Several St. Louis ball players
had bought automobiles. Snyder hadn't
given the buzz wagons much attention,
but he finally got to thinking about it,
so one day he took a walk along au
tomobile row in St. Louis. He hadn't
any particular intention of buying, but
just thought he would give them the
once over.
Passing a show window, he Baw an
automobile that struck his fancy. Ho
may not have known a carburetor from
a friction drive, but the maehlnn hart
class that even Snyder could fathom.
in no stalked, and pulling his six feet
anil two inches and his 44 cheat un tn
tho approaching salesman, said short
ly: How much for that automnhiln in
the window?"
"That Will COSt VOU two thnntianrl
dollars, complete, with all the latest"
Frank Snyder.
and the salesman began to extol the
various advantages of the car.
"That's all right. I'll take her," said
Snyder shortly. "Trot her out and
show mo how she runs."
Snyder learned the points of his ma
chine and ran it for a week or two.
One day he appeared at the Cardinal
ball park via street car.
"Where's the automobile, Frank?" a
fellow player inquired.
"Shipped her home to Texas. Can't
lead the National league In hitting and
catch good ball If I run that thing
around," was the answer.
Nobody had noticed that Snyder's
work had been affected by his auto
mobile driving, but the attitude taken
by the young catcher shows his seri
ousness of purpose. It's the something
in Snyder that wins while other play
ers fail and complain and seek alibis.
They say Frank Snyder never smiled
but once, and he seldom talks. That
smile came to his Hps when Mike Don-
nn tried to get his goat one day by
calling him a name no Texan tairpa
It was a smile terrible to behold. That
Mike Donlin is alive todav. or at lpnat
is not a cripple for life, is due to the
fact, probably, that Cardi nnl nlavpra
who know Snyder's disposition and
realized what his short laueh
for Donlin grabbed him bodily, a half
dozen or more of them, and held him
until Donlin could escape to the club
house.
Rule on Bleacher Hits.
President Johnson made a new rule
governing balls hit into the bleachers
or grandstand at the Polo ernnnris.
In future a ball that goes into either
structure inside the foul posts will be
called a home run. no matter where it
may land.
Strong for Good Behavior.
Lee Fohl is strong for eood be
havior on the ball field. He insists
that hiB men keep awav from the um-
plres and let the field captain do the
talking, tot that reason the Indiana
are going along without any handicaps
rrom me umpires.
Praise for Johnson.
Umpire Tommy .Connolly savs he ex-
nects to see Walter .Inhnonn nitfhin
- .. -' n
grand ball for ten year's more. Con
nolly sys Johnson's delivery and body
motion surpass those of Cy Young and
Jack Powell, who lasted 20 years.
GIRL'S DIARY SHOWS HOWlRISH
REVOLT SPREAD REIGN OF TERROR
Miss Dora Ring, Once a New Jersey Resident, Surrounded by Bom-
Darament and street RgMing, Describes Her Experience
Feared for Safety of Mother During the Rebellion,
but Was Unable to Go to Her.
New Brunswick, N. J. Miss Dora
Blng, once a New Brunswick girl,
granddaughter of Mr. and Mrs. Daniel
Bing of this place, was within two
miles of the center of fighting in Ire
land when the revolt was at its height.
Her experiences are Hot forth In the
following extracts from her diary:
"On Thursday evening previous to
r-asier aaa and mother set off for Kil
Jaruey, leavinc us nlnnp Wo hail a
jolly time on the whole, and on Easter
Monday, knowing dad would be home
.u me evening, we (thought we would
wind up one holiday by a visit to the
movies. On Monday afternoon, at
about two o'clock, wo set out and
caught a tramcar at the foot of the
road. It cost twopence to go to town,
and wo had paid our money when, at
Haddington road, about half way, tho
conductor came along and told us to
get out, that the train was going no
farther.
"Out we got and started walking,
wondering whether the lines were bro
ken or the electric power cut off. We
had not proceeded far when we met a
woman who lived right opposite here.
She was In a great state of excitement.
She said: 'My dear children, you're
not dreaming of proceeding farther.
The town is In an uproar. The Sinn
Fein volunteers are out, armed with
rifles, machine guns and heaven knows
what. Men are being shot and sev
eral have been killed.' We didn't wait
to hear any more, but turned back.
She went with us. She had been In
town and had to walk out again.
"When we got to the spot where we
had left the train we were shown a
house at the corner of the road, and
on the roof of tho
who was shooting all the soldiers that
came along. As tho house is withm a
stone's throw of one of the biggest
barracks, it was a bit Rerlnna . it
not? We then thought we were a
great deal too near for the air to be
really healthy, and made tracks for
home.
Get News of Rebels.
"Before wo went to bed news came
tnat the rebels had command of the
general post office, the Westland Row
railway station, the Kingsbridge rail
way station (at which all trains from
Killarney and the South arrive), had
ripped up tramway and railway wire,
and had Intrenched themselves at St!
Stephen's green, right in the heart of
the city. Wo went to bed in a very
shaky state of mind, wondering how
mother and dad wero faring, and hop
ing they had heard of the trouble soon
enough to prevent their leaving Kil
larney. "Tuesday. Awoke to the pip-pip of
bullets about one-half mile away.
Spent the day in an awful state, listen
ing to shots every few minutes. Nnlrh.
bors exceedingly kind and came to ask
us around it we were afraid. No mails,
no newspapers and no news except ru
mors of a hair-raising description. At
night, about half-past seven, a fearful
bombardment by heavy guns, not very
far away. Heard afterward that a gun
boat had steamed up the Llffey and
had bombarded Liberty hall, the
headquarters of the volunteers, also
heard that tho flag of the Irish Repub
lic Is floating over the post office and
that the rebels had issued a proclama
tion calling on all loyal Irishmen to
take up arms and fight to rid the coun
try of alien people Ireland for the
Irish.
Wednesday. More firing. Watched
(
about two thousand English soldiers j
Austrlans Use Them as Bombs on Car
so Front Fire Them From
Cannons.
London. An Italian correspondent
writes that the Austrlans are now
making use of a wooden bomb' on the
Carso front. The bomb looks like a
cask, its outer shell being, in fact,
composed of wooden staves with iron
hoops, and it Is large enough to con
tain 2Z0 pounds of explosives.
For the purposes of firing thlB "beer
cask" bomb Is placed in the mouth of a
420-milllmeter gun like a great cork.
It does not travel far, and causes far
more noise than destruction.
The Italians are puzzled to know
why the Austrlans bother about them
at all. One ixaion suggested Is that
it enables the Autrlans to use up the
innumerable cais lying Idle at the
Pllsen breweries now that the export
of the famous Pllsener lager has been
stopped.
Tho same correspondent states that
the Italic s are using the Roman hel
met for utvost work end lu the
Ht-hK Kh US WHIP MVS I lh UUDK irencneS. it S 8.1(1 tn hp lirttnr tl, , r-i r-nn.-.-. -
marcii past the end of the road. Very
hot day. and thpv ha1 ornacpil frnm
England tho previous night and had
marcneu rrom Kingstown that morn
ing, about three miles? a verv lint dav
and the soldiers were very tired and
hot. Had passed about one-half mile
away. Heard afterward that the
troops had been caught in an ambush
a snort distance away and had been
fired on from front and back. Terrible
loss of life. Still no mail, wires or
teiepnones. Few newspapers, and a
charge of sixnence to rend thpm
which sounds like a page out of a
scoiy oi -ye goode olde days.'
inursday. Dad, Uncle Jack, Mar
garet, Jim and I walked to some
friends about one-fourth mile away,
that is, within a very short distance
of activities. Talked to the soldiers,
who are very nice, polite fellows, and
who are greatly astonished at and
very grateful for kindness of people
around, who loaded them with food
and tea and cigarettes. Fearful firing
all day, and a man in the, mpdlrai
service told us the number of killed
and wounded is terrible, which, judg
ing by the noise, wo can well JibIIavp
Saw a fearful blaze in the sky from
our ocaroom window and heard next
day that the greater part of Sackvllle
street had been gutted. Martial law
at I'.iv, and after that hour everybody
must stay Indoors. We did. Still nn
news of the outside world, and very
wornea about mother.
Provisions Run Low.
Also, provisions were a-nttlnir
scarce, Dut managed to get six pounds
of beef and a steak with s-reat riMffl.
culty. No butter and no bacon to be
naa ror any price. Mother had stored
plenty of canned ennrla anA 1 woo
thankful to have them; also seven
pounds of flour and about twenty
pounds of tea and about a similar
quantity of sugar. Good old mother!
We often teased her about emergency
stock, but we won't be able to thank
her enough now. Decided that dry
ureaa is not palatable.
"Friday. Went to see our fronds
again, passing provision shops on the
way, anu saw groat crowds of people
Bianamg waiting to get In, as into a
theater. Saw about eighteen prison
ers, very dirty, miserable-looking spec
imens, one or two slightly wounded.
Very amusing to watch ladies and
gentlemen hurrying to and fro with
loaves of bread, Jugs of milk, etc., and
huge parcels not even wrapped up,
but tied together anyhow.
"In the afternoon went to the end
of our road and cheered about ten
thousand soldiers, infantry and cav
alry, passing on their way to the fir
ing line. Many heavy guns, and saw
field kitchens for the first time, very
weird-looking affairs. Still no news
of outside, but a friend
England took two wires across to send
from the other side. Another big fire
in town, and sky all lit nn TorHhu
fighting round about, especially at
night.
Saturday. Homo all
in the afternoon were stopped at the
railway station by sentries with bay
onets, who would not allow us to pro
ceed farther. Helped to give the sol
diers tea and amused ourselves by
watching neoDle trvins tn cat hnmA
They were not allowed to pass until
identified. Very funny. Some got ex
ited and Indignant. More firlnir uprv
near at hand all night.
"Sunday. Woke to find
with a bayonet outside the gate of our
1 1 s ...
... ... uujmi3. uuidiuo mi
house. Great excitement
trenches. It Is said to ha hptto,. hnn
the new French helmet, Inasmuch as
u protects the neck and Jugular as
well.
Prlsor Better Than Camp.
Montgomery, Ala. Felix Smith,
white, a convict serving two years for
embezzlement, escaped from the tur
pentine camp, near the Florida lino
and walked 200 miles back to the peni
tentiary rather than suffer the abuses
which he said were heanert nnnn him
In the camp. He walked into the peni
tentiary and told the warden that he
had escaped so he could "cnm hapir
home." Smith has served eight months
ana most likely will not be sont back
to the camp.
Gold in the Street.
Helena, Mont. From irrnunn
washed up by a burst water main in
the business district" of HpIpi.h tun
other day two gold nuggets worth S25
apiece were picked np. The find
cauied much excitement among old
prospectors, wno mined tho principal
Eireeis in weiena wnen it was one Of j
me richest nlacer gulches In history.
i aim uu fcw I
NO. 14.
ing out in the road found sentries ev
ery few yards up the road. Allowed
to walk about one hundred yards,
which Is very funny and not at all
nice.
"Of course, could not go to church.
Great shooting seemed very near. A
house near us searched, and two Slna
Feiners and a Quantity of ammunition
found. Great excitement. Jim and
Margaret make friends with sentry
outside gate, and give Jim his badge.
Gavo him tea, etc.
"In the afternoon not allowed out.
side the garden gate, and as Jim and
Margaret stood there Just after tea
'Pip-pip,' and a bullet went past their
heads, which hastened their stens ln
doors In a great state of fright. After
tms much shooting round about, They
seemed to store up their energy until
ordinary people are trying to slee.
Horrible roar at night, and noise
seems to come along the road and also
in the back garden. I found nut n
day that two snipers were caught on
the roofB of houses near by, which ao-
counted lor much. Went to lied fJ.
ing very shaky. Rumors said the ma
jority of the rebels in town had sur
rendered, which, in view of thft e-rent
noise near at hand, we found hard to
believe.
Firing Continues After Week.
"Monday. The trouble hflfl Inatpn m.
whole week, and the firlne still ccm.
tinues, but nearer town, 1 am thank
ful to say. Went for a walk tn tho
afternoon, the sentries having been re
moved. Wont to our friends as hnfnwL
and found them terribly frightened.
nuuaes near Dynad been shelled and a
lot of fighting had taken nlaoa arnnnit
their house. Sentries still posted at n
numDer of roads, and no one allowed
fntO town Without a mllltarv nprmit
Firing gradually decreasing, but broke
ouc again at night as usual. Rumors
of rebels' surrender confirmed, and
we seem to be near the end. Still no
mail.
"Tuesday. A newsDanpr at last, ho
only four pages and cost twopence. At
aeout eleven o'clock at night a great
lot of firing broke Out verv near at
hand and continued till twelve, when.
owng used to such nniaa. fall
asleep. Still no trains, and
famine in the city. We have no meat
but otherwise are very fortunate la
the food line. I forgot to say that tho
soldiers came around Tuesday and or-
uereu us to get all the bread vrn rmU.
as flour and yeast were runnin? aim
No women were allowed beyond the
station, so dad started off with a linen
bag to get loaves from a bakerr about
one-half mile away. After great diffi-
culty ho got, with three other mon an
far as the bakery and bought 4r loavea
at nine cents each, which is very dear.
mere were riots around the hnknr
and people were there from all n.nrt
of the city, very hungry.
This Is Thursday, and I have fln.
ished my tale. It was very exciting
while it lasted, and now we are tat
taste tho sorrow of it. Dad has gone
to town again to try to got to Kings
bridge, to let mother know that she
may come up again. I couldn't begin
to tell you how lad I'll be to one w
again and to have her back safe and
sound. I am dreadfully afraid she will
have been worrying herself crazy, for
if the reality was bad enough the ro
mors were ten times worse.
As one old man remarked, 'fllnrr
be to God! They've fine weather tor
their fighting!' So they had, for It hat
been just perfect serine weathr tnr
fortnight past, with the most beautiful
sunsmne. At times it has been vbit
hot.
Dad Is going to cable Uncla ftn.
drew, and no doubt you will have re
ceived the news from him long before
this arrives, but I have dona mv h
to tell you of the state of excitement
in wnicn our lives have been spent
for the last week or more. Thanh- n
it is all over now, the "reign of ter
ror' Is finished. I am thankful, too,
that mother has been spared It all."
Lake Erie produces more fish to the
square mile than any other body at
water in the world.
Preacher Who Was Wounded In CM
War Recovered After Many
Days.
Findlay, O. The Rev. R. B. Mundj
has celebrated the fifty-second anni
versary of his death, and he still Uvea
to tell the tale. It was at the battle
of Cloyd's mountain during the Civil
war that he with a number of others
was carried from the battlefield aa
dead. A half day later another soldier
passing his body noticed his breast ex
pand, and upon examination it was
found he was still breathing. He was
rushed to a hospital and he recovered
In a few weeks.
Mends Cracked Egg.
Milton, Ind. W. H. PnrHna a-.
gist here, was handling a setting of
eggs In an incubator at his store some
time wo and accidentally cracked
one. Mr. Parkins closed the broken
shell with n :ieco of adhesive plaster
nd replaced lie eea In the Incuhatnr
ihr egg hat':hefl, the chicken beln
tht ilrst of tho l.wxl to come forth.
l.rl rKKS h U V nuus nCITU
i "-vj mo wiin uknin
BMMBBBBBBslBHiBBBBMisiBHMi ...
