Odd TTTT rr v. >,
IPH n ySjlb fed 77d WjV/A-v -GLJ _ //V
rI I Wy (=J AVA K\\ | [
ivjrJ rrz ,Tj aktw \/ A.4 i i l/R'iTX ~~~ I
twelfth year. n '°
the worm turns.
eiiinr of the Gazette:-
. ny line ut business there ire prob
mat confront the meivliant 'hut must
£s> ved and ,-orreetlons of methods made
business is to sue, 1 ~ h.hly no
thing has euused mo,-; worn nnd
mutv for the country niei. hani 111 he
S order houses. How is eountry
bant to gel the Imslness and what IS
Jlore Important, keep the business when
‘.. tr , It is not coniine.l to umville.
Keier one (toes he hear- the e,y
minst the m»ll order houses.
“your article hi the issue el July .111
nakes this an opportune tune to itive
«un»of the reasons why we natron out
dTlTtirms l o a small ext-nt. If other* have
had like experiences one has not tar to g»
to learn why or how tl»«* local mci chant*
tv* brought oil themselves the predlea
mmt In which they now 'ln I themselves.
A change in methods here ...i I there may
help solve their prohlem. \« von v 111 -ee
Hl)not always excessive prh- that va ises
the trouble.
When we arrived In « n-»\ ill- we w ■ ;..
uoreludUed as any one cuM he atruinn
iMmallorder houses. The 10. ul nu rehunta
htd our trade entire. Why did ll.ev mn
Imii It? It was their business to lin'd It.
5, believed In fair prollls ami were 'vill
i' to pay a little moro Hum outside
Sees phis freight. I an |.>r*tiiml one of
our merchams expressed lila.-i It once by
Marius that after the u w arrival was
hliM in Ids new home "the doty of ine
Mt of u* *as performed” nnd our aim
Mild be to "land another one." Don't
mu believe It. Keep after tho-o who mo
jgit. you may lose them as eortuh'ly as
ll»u*h they had moved away
gome mercliants have a wav of Inaulng
rtf(i transaction as though It wore tho
bn opportunity to sell to that euslonter -n
"make us much as lie can on that oppoi
lunity." We were once sold an implement
oomjsned of parts of several mm bines.
Wt were ten.lerfeet and pretty green. M e
do not mention this with any great degiee
■ of pride, hut we have lieen careful not 'o
jive that man much patronage since. Had
he explained that in some wav tint- ma
cbine got mixed up but that it would do
the work just as well as any other, we
muld have felt more klmllv
Again, we were particularly obliged to
have an article immediately. There was
none to be had new that we could fb’.l.
finally a merchant said that bo bad such I
aa article that he had been using and that
ie were welcome to use it nnHI he could
tend for a new one for us. No. he didn't.
He said he would let us have it. naming
Aprice more than double that quoted i*i
,-lie despised catalogue for new goods. We
? could “take it or leave it" and "decide
quick too.” This merchant bragged about
how he had pulled a good one over on us.
Such methods won't do. I could mention
many more but these are sufficent.
About the first thing our merchants
should do to keep trade at home Is 'o 101
get that goods were ever freighted Jr. by
teams. The song about high freight tales
hsi too many verses. Freights are high,
but they are the same for all. And do not
fire us freight rates as a reason chaig
taf two prices for a paper of needles.
Have the same price for all. Ho not tune
itvantage of the youthful youngster to
AMVfctwe bits for a five eeut article end
afreet to get away with It for long. The
parents may get on to it. and one man’s
money is as good as another’s.
It must be confesed that the p*ice prop
osition is the hardest to combat. One
country merchant In the east advertises
to meet any mall order catalogue prices
so foods In his line and goes them one bet
ter by offering to pay the freight I can
not say how he Is coming along except
that he has done this for several rears
and has not gone broke yet. There Is this
about It. when a customer springs a cata
logue price the chances are there will he
other articles wanted. Articles on which
a legitamate profit can be made. Articles
that the customer would Include in his
order simply because while he is about
It he "might as well get them a’* together
and save carrying charges". When 1 say
legitimate profits I mean Just that it Is
too late in the day to rely on the ignorance
of the customer. A merchant cannot reas
on that a customer will conclude ‘hat the
merchant’s protlt Is 25 cents and mark up
an article from SI.OO to $1.25. thinking it
is easy to make 50 cents as ?5 cents. the
t cost having been 75 cents. But I am in
formed that this actually hapnerc- in a
place not far from Oroville.
As to th® article mentioned In your is-
JU# °f Jiily 7th. It cost us $4.25 laid down
nere. Oroville merchants’ price $6.00. Do
you relise that this was a saving of 37
Pjr cent Mr. Editor? The "few cents”
wk more to us than to you perhaps. This
cent is more than most financial in
stitutions in our cities make in a whole
jmr. Right here let me say that the enor
mous profits made by the large city con
kre not large when compared to th**
capital invested. I venture to sav that if
?"5 0f ,°ur merchants started with SIO,OOO
paid dividends or profits of 8 per cent
C iSSPH" 1, then at the end of five years
!!* but $15,000, he w’ould not be so
♦kl* pleaesd with his business. Yet
Proportionate business would make a
concer n feel mighlly well satis
uaaa)kiS£ n at from this angle the
•w.wu.ooo, distribution made some time
Sv!? * m §H order house, was not so re-
j.vr uiun uuu«r way mu re
markable after all.
to tPe S*» 00 article; Is It the
merchant or we who pay that donation to
in« local Improvement? If he takes that
away from us Is lie paying those
u »? Why not use the to go
Paving our own taxes? Is It ab
m«?„n 0r . u J *° "ay *° solicitors “go to the
misin ai u.^ or y° ,,r subscriptions as we are
nln?.extra In order that he may
oii u . te ■ Is It not Just as absurd to ar
™' i one ahoiild trade at home be-
WK. me rchant does contribute?
wnen we take produce to the merchant
nawlkot us a little more than he can
* or elsewhere, because we pay
Itv’ri. i re .. Bnd ItelP support the commun-
M»onlJ?the p * a de to be sharpened on one
nnnu« ay * Jn business also. We offer you
In mL. a t. I?-®® a hox when you can send
thnm o! a «. or somewhere else and get
H° Vb» then remember that
nlna*. taxes here. Speak a little louder
p Tnu’ ~ e d d not Inst hear you.
hniiMn H 1 ""!I°n the fact that mail order
»n<t in . times are manufacturers also
at tin?,?*.? .* na t e Jobber’s profits. That
house can price an article at
fnm nj? I* l6 usual wholesale price, there
knnat n merc hant cannot compete. We
numu Ki ex P er lsnce that one ran buy
and ! a.Sil n *" *t retail stores In Seattle
thnn in?* 806. Pay carrying charges and
'I'M. -..fk COP J J" l e " s than the local prices
►r IhnS in r * a * te " the edge off the "cheap
a puinLa wholesale argument". There is
wmieraan hi the wood idle
the^mlf.,lt e or chardlst is getting down In
htaTSS a ?. d fueling blue over winter
anbisii.fn °tl>er troubles the merchants
belter y n..i? v * * ,ie nerve to tell him "Von
feed tnu . 11 P your trees, grow alfalfa,
right "6 to stock and then you will be nl'
same oa,. l t Ppo! i f ‘ wp h’lve the merchant the
the moa V i r e' tIP ra nnot compete with
one mnrL Prd< ‘ r house try another line. Is
A i« o r^f. pre "" m l’tious than the other?
has nm. 00 .ncerti under our observation
one *" Instructions an emphatic
'•ustonTnJ*" *®Ployes must not joke with
lons ,lho, > t money. Money Is a ser-
atter and one who saves It Is prals-
Me inatuMf * or business and not charlta-
PttDeriv ** m o *!!' Exorbitant profits may he
a orm of charity. If the
fh«mlnt.M unable to keep going wlthon*
Mdlze be a good Idea to suh-
Posed ffk?’. “ *be merchants were dls
-10 scale their profits would not the
thousands of dollars you sav tro mo ••
Oroville to the mull order houses he so,-or
here unci while Hit inurulu of pi-otlt would
he less lt would more Hum lie nude u
the extra volume of business 11
As to keeping money ut home. I rise ».»
hiuuhe that it it he true that mail n«d*n*
luiees are les> than wholesale prices one
is not keeping more money at home bv
dealing with the outside house. Of eoursa
the money would he in another mms
po« ket and that is a horse of anoth u eol-
Yiierc h- one point rulsed t'oit Is cor
liimly worth.v of oonsldeiittion. Thu of
hum time The answer i„
tlu.t !S that the man who Is ae, ommodaled
should eertuiiily pay interest. T*. • eash
eusloiiirr eerluinly should mu I ,
help hear that burden.
The writer prefers to trade >it hom
\\ ♦* won I I bo most bappv to bo .ih'o »
MoJve m!I those problems If It wore i.u>i
l»lo. A few are easy First, eliminate mi
llment— make one price for all ami remcm
ber that the merchant is here to accommo
date the customer ami not the
\N lien those am! the considerations whloii
natui iiiy follow them are institntod i;, t .
rio.Tchant will get the trade he is millf'od
A. H. <*.
COUNCIL PROCEEDINGS.
Minutes of the regular meeting of Up
town council of Oroville. Washington. ,)nl\
10, 1910.
I‘resent Mayor Samson. Councllim-a
I'riis, Beale, Smith and Starrett.
Minutes of the previous meeting read
and approved as read.
rattles residing in the south part of
town appeared before tin* council asking
about the furnishing of oil for the oxter
initiation of mosquitoes. Thev were in
formed that the oil was on’ hand and
could he obtained from the city marshal.
’Phe matter of installing a telephone li
the office of the lire chief was discussed
and a motion was made and carried that
the phone be Installed and paid for |»v Up
town.
Ordinance No. 75 entitled "An ordinance
amending section 5 of ordinance No. 74
entitled an ordinance granting to tlie l*a
cldc Telephone and Telegraph Company
a corporation, its successors and assigns,
the right to place, erect and maintain
poles, wires and other appliances and con
ductors and to lay underground wires im
the transmission of electricity for tele
phone and telegraph purposes in upon
and under the streets, alleys, avenues,
public thoroughfares and public highways
ai the town of Oroville. state of Washing *
ton. and to exercise the prlveiige of op
erating telephone and telegraph instru
ments in. and doing a general telephone
and telegraph business in the said town
of Oroville. state of Washington, was
read and motion was made and carried
that the ordinance pass its third and Until
reading. Yeas, Beale, Fills, Smith and
Starrett. Noes. none.
The following resolution was then read
and on motion was adopted:
"Be it resolved by the town council of
the town of Oroville. that
"Wheras; the town council of tlie town
of Oroville. did on the 12 th day of June.
1916, pass and approve an ordinance graft
ing to the Pacific Telephone and Telegraph
Company a franchise to operate a tele
phone and telegraph business In the town
of Oroville, and
"Whereas; in section 5 of said ordinance
on the l?th line after the for. there ap
peared the words Mire alarm poll. «• tele
graph and telephone sent.*- *nd the town
council having found lb mistake after
tMe passage and approx u .*f ft;** said or
dinance, did on the I'Mli del **f July, ml
pass an amendment to the almve mention
ed ordinance correcting the above men
tioned mistake,
"Now Trerefore. be it Ilesolved. that
tbis resolution be and Is hereby passed as
a part of the minutes of this meeting of
the town Council for the purpose of show
ing the Intent of the town council in pass
ing the above.
The following bills were read and on
motion were allowed and ordered paid:
J B Norman, labor on water works.
$17.10: C. S. Arnold, labor on water works.
$15.00; John Collins. labor on water works.
$20.40; Nott-Atwater Co., fire dept, sup
plies. $18.15; Standard Oil Co., distillate.
SSO '*?, On motion the council adjourned.
K. R. HOOSR. Clerk.
WORK COMMENCED ON THE RUBY.
After several years of idleness work was
renewed on the old Ruby mine this week.
The Itubv is located near the base or He
north slope of Cbopaka mountain, a few
miles west of Night-hawk, and under Urn
supervision of Monroe Harman, in past
years, a large amount of underground de
velopement was carried on in tlie nature of
tunnels, cross-cuts, drifts, slopes, etc
Strong ledges carrying good values were
encountered. Before tlie extent of the min
eral showing could he determined tunds
gave out and work was suspended at a
time when Mr. Harman felt that a little
more exploration would place the mine in
the producing class. As there lias been no
work done for a number of years before
actual mining can he started it will require
considerable time to clear out tlie drills
and replace timbers where timber has
been necessary. The force of men will be
in charge of Joe McMillan, one of tin*
oldest, most experienced and reliable
miners in tlie country. If work Is contin
ued steadiiv as is now anticipates, .here
is verv excellent reason to believe that
within a few months the Ruby will he
shlping one.
NEW TRAIN SERVICE
\ sweeping new innovation in railroad
passenger service was Inaugurated Sunday
when an extra passenger train was placed
In operation on the Orovl le-Wenutchee
branch The running schedule of this new
and additional service is as follows: Ira In
leaves Wenatchee at 7 a. m.. arriving
Oroville at 12:110 p. m. Leaves Oroville on
return trip at S p. m.. arriving at We
natchee at 1:20 a. m. This Is a daily set
vice, Sunday Included. It is underst 1
that this extra service Is In the oat ill ( ut
an experiment, and Its continuation < im
pends upon whether it meets a pub
want. That It is a great convenience to tbi
traveling public there can be no question.
Hv this train a person cun leave Oroville
in' the evening and be in Seattle or Spo
kane the nest morning. 'I he attention of
the people In the country to the noitb.
east and west of Oroville Is especially call
ed to the new arrangement. Any one
wishing to reach the coast, or any eastern
point, can leave Oroville any evening In
the week. Including Sunday, making close
conections with west or east bound trains
at Wenatchee.
AGAIN OPENED.
The Oroville general hospital In aga n
opened in the old quarters, where It will
he conducted under the dl rPrt mni f a
committee of citizens until definite ai -
rangements are made for the construction
of a new building. People at a dlstan .
should make a note of this, and neLli
boring physicians hear It In mind.
Miss Elizabeth Umbarger. of Loomis,
was a visitor in Orovllle over Tuesday
night. Miss Umbarger and her mother
have recentlv returned to their beautiful
home on Palmer lake from an extended
trip Into Ualifornla of several weeks dota
tion.
Mrs W. 1,. Davis, Miss Pauline Davis
and I.eonard Davis came down fromi Dtj -
vllle Monday morning and will spend th
summer with Mr. and Mrs. Geo, Davis a I
the ranch.— Okanogan Independent.
J. C STEVENS, ENGINEER W. O. V. I. DISTRICT
When the contract was finally let
hy the dirtetors of (he West Okanagan
Valley Irrigation district for the con
struction of the irrigation system it
became necessary, as a protective
measure, for the district to employ a
resident engineer to look after the
interests of the land owners, and see
that the work was carried out In ac
cordance with the plans and specifica
tions. This was an important step to
take, as it was necessary for the pro
tection of the interests of the district
that the man selected for this respon
sible position lie one in whom they
could place implicit confidence—as it
was not to he expected that any layman
should lie sufficiently familiar with
engineering lore to check up the work
in its progress and pass judgment up
on its character—and one who by ex
perience was well versed on irrigation
problems and water supply, a man rec
ognized as an authority on these sub
jects. Such men are not so plentiful
that they can be picked up anywhere,
and it was a momentous duty to per
form. The district officials were for
tunate, howevrr, in making their se
lection, as their choice fell upon J. C.
Stevens, of Portland, who is the peer
of any man in his profession, and who
has had immediate and active charge
ol the district’s interests since con
struction first commenced almost a
year ago.
Mr. Stevens has become a familiar
figure about Oroville since assuming
his duties of supervisor and consulting
engineer for the district, and he has
consistently and faithfully devoted his
time to the labors that devolved upon
him. He has been actively on the Job,
in season and out of season, and the
work he has performed lias demonstrat
ed that Hie directors were fortunate in
securing his services. Aside from his
professional ability, while not a free
mixer, Mr. Stevens Is a very likable
chap, and with the closing of his con
tract and the departure for his home at
Portland lie leaves behind a number
of well wishers who will always retain
pleasant recollections of his stay in
Oroville.
At this time after acceptably per
forming the duties for which he was
engaged, and on the eve of his depart
ure hence, it is not out of place to
give in this connection a brief sketch
of Mr. Stevens' life, a life of activities,
a life of accomplishment, a record that
any man could well be proud of. Few
would suspect from the quiet, unosten
tatious attitude of the gentleman in
his daily concourse and intercourse
with the public since living here that
he has made such a splendid record,
such a remarkable record for a man of
his years, a record that stands to the
credit of few men of his profession:
Mr. Stevens was born January 9,
187(5, at Moline, Kansas. He attended
Union college, at Lincoln, Nebraska,
for two years, and finally graduated
from the civil engineering department
of the Nebraska State University. In
1002-3 he was assistant state engineer
of Nebraska, in 1903 he was appointed
assistant engineer of the United State
reclamation service, and worked in
Denver, Colo., and later in Nebraska
and South Dakota on water supply and
irrigation problems. He was subse
quently transferred to the United
OROVILLE. WASHIN ITON, JULY 14, 191ti
Slates geological survey, and held the
position of district engineer for the
Pacific northwest, with headquarters
ar Portland, Oregon from 1900 to 1910,
in charge of irrigation and water pow
er instigations for the government,
la 1910 Mr. Stevens resigned from gov
ernor ait service and has been engaged
in pm'ate engineering practice since
that time. He spent the summer of 1910
on special water supply studies for
the Anaconda Copper Mining company.
Prom March, 1912, to July, 1914, Mr.
Stevens was in Spain in charge of the
construction of a 70,000 horse power
hydroelectric plant, one of a group of
three, for the city of Harcelona, costing
$16,000,000. The three projects were
financed and built by the Pearson En
gineering corporation of New York.
Mr. Steven;- lias been a writer and
author on engineering subjects, par
ticularly those pertaining to water
supply problems, quite extensively. He
is the author of a number of papers
published by the United States Geo
logical survey, among them, “Surface
Water Supply of Nebraska,” one vol
ume. “Surface Water Supply of the
Pacific Northwest," 4 volumes. “Water
Powers of the Cascade Range,” 2 vol
umes. He was a member of the Oregon
Conservation Commission for throe
years, and a member of the committee
that drafted the Oregon Water Code.
At the present time Mr. Stevens is a
member of the American Society of
Civil Engineers, Nebraska Engineering
Society, and Oregon Society of Engin
eers. Mr. Stevens has also designed
and patented a series of instruments
for recording water levels. These in
struments are in use by the govern
ment and private agencies in all parts
of the United States. In Alaska, the Ha
waiian Islands, Spain, Philippines, In
dia and other parts of the world. Last,
hut not least. Mr. Stevens has person
ally supervised the engineering work
on the West Okanogan Valley Irriga
tion system, that promises to stand a
monument to his efficiency in that
Held of effort for years to come.
The seven head of cattle stolen from
Ed. Howell, on Tunk creek, some time
ago were found last week in a draw
back in the hills south of Tonasket,
where they had been holed up by the
rustlers. There are some ugly rumors
afloat regarding this case of cattle
stealing.- Experience has taught the
public to discount very materially ru
mors in cases of this kind, but some
developments of an unpleasant nature
may grow out of Investigations later.
AT THE ORPHEUM THEATRE.
For Saturday and Sunday evenings the
Orpheum presents the dainty Viennese
and stage star Emmy Wehlen in “Tables
Turned." a live reel photo drama. As the
advance notice states, “'rubles Turned” is
a gripping dramatic offering, biimfull of
tense situations. In which Miss Wehlen Is
scon at her very best. While this charming
favorite of the London Galty achieved
her greatest success in musical comedy,
she has shown herself to he a versatile and
capable actress, unusually powerful In
emotional scenes. Miss Wehlen will have
an excellent supporting cast including 11.
Gooper Culffc. the eminent English dra
matic actor, who has played important
roles with Sir Henry Irving. Ellen Terry
and other notables of the stage.
A soldier, sailor, his widow or minor
children, can file by a power of attorney at
a cost of $2. without being compelled to go
t<» (be filing places. J. M. Adams will flx
up the necessary papers at this place for
anv one desiring to take advantage of this
privllige free of charge.
IX THE TENTH TEAR.
In another column of this issue is
published a statement of the condition
of the First National bank of Oroville
on June 30. 1916, issued in response to
the regular calls of the comptroller of
the treasury. This report Is worth
looking over. It is a very flattering in
dication of a growing and substantial
banking business, even at a season of
I he year that is considered the dullest,
and concrete evidence of the solidity
of this local financial institution. Rvery
item that enters into the representa
tion of a flourishing banking business
shows an improvement over former re
ports. It is a most, creditable showing,
satisfactorily alike to the stockholders
and the public at large. The bank is in
a position now to pay dividends, re
turns from the investment that have
not been forthcoming for a long time,
and that always interesting feature for
the beneiiciaries promises to become
a regular habit in the future.
In (lilh connection it may tic slated
that the First National bank has been
established for ten years this summer,
and It goes without the saying that It
has proved a valuable adjunct to the
business interests of the place. The
process of expansion lias been slow,
but nevertheless sure. It has kept pace
with the growth of the town, and its
tenth birthday sees Hie institution on a
most excellent footing. Much of the
more recent success of the bank is
due to the energy and activity of the
young men directly in charge of the
business affairs of the establishment.
A. P. Murray, as president, and S. 14.
Starrett, Jr., as cashier, have given
their constant personal attention to the
handling of the business and they have
contributed largely to the growing
popularity of the house by their unde
viating courtesy in their treatment of
patrons and all having business to
transact at the bank. May the First
National continue expanding and grow
ing until it becomes one of the impor
tant and leading banking houses of the
northwest.
AFTER MANY DAYS.
Chas. H. Flummerfelt, of Elleusburg,
spread his autograph on the Hotel do
Grubb register one day last week.
This was not Mr. Flummerfelt’s first
visit to Orovllle, but his last visit was
so long ago that be felt like a strange
cat in a strange garret when his feet
pressed the cement sidewalks of out
electrically lighted streets on the
evening of his arrival. Naturally lie
should feel lost considering the time
that has elapsed since he was enrolled
as a resident of the more abbreviates
Oro. For when Mr. Flummerfelt shook
the dust of Oro from his feet after a
short sojourn where the old hamlet
once stood, time had only reeled oft
the ages to 1892, hence a period of 24
years has been added to the heretofore
since between the dates of Mr. Flum
merfelt's last visit and the recent
one. He found the Stantons still
here, and one or two others that he
knew, but the balance of the popula
tion was strangers. He was surprised
and pleased with the changes in the
town and valley, all of which have
taken place within the paist dozen
years, since the advent of the railroad.
However these changes are nothing to
compare with those that will take
place within the next decade, and
should Mr. Flummerfelt be spared to
visit Orovllle ten years hence he will
be even more greatly surprised at the
improvements than he was at the time
of his recent visit.
Fred W. Graham, immigration agent
of the Great Northern, spent Sunday
in Orovllle. Mr. Graham is nothing
If not up and coming always. “Time
does not stale his infinite variety,"
when that variety is studying ways
and means of catching immigrants
going and coming, and discovering
new means and methods of populating
and opening up new country under his
jurisdiction. It was largely through
his representations that the railroad
company has made a trial of running
two dally trains. Sunday included, be
tween Orovllle and Wenatchee, an ex
periment it is hoped will prove suffi
ciently profitable as a business getter
to Justify the railroad in continuing
indefinitely. When a man feels some
what oppressed with the idea that his
efforts for the building up of the coun
try he is working for are not bearing
fruitage, or at least not as promptly
as he desires, he gains new inspiration
for further effort whenever meeting
with Fred Graham, a prince of good
fellows personally, a hustler by nature
and intuition.
SERVICES AT M. E. CHURCH.
Sunday school at 11 a. m. Preaching ser
vice at 11 a. m. Subject of sermon: “Am
I my brother’s keeper?” Bpworth League
at 7 p. m. Preaching service at S p. m.
Subject of sermon: "Character the Su
preme Test of Christianity."
Everybody welceme; everybody Invited:
everybody come. The homelike church ami
me stranger's friend.
W. W. SPRITE, Pastor.
IRRIGATION SYSTEM ACCEPTED.
During the past week the directors of the
West Okanogan Valley Irrigation district
formally accepted the Irrigation system
nom the contractors as completed, and
have assumed the management of the
pi'ojnt t. Thorough tests demonstrate con
clusively that the work <‘omes up to tlie
full standard of efficiency us provided by
the plans ;md specitications under the con
tract, and nos been completed within the
period provided and promised in spite of
Ui< most unfavorable «limatlc conditions
that have ever interefered with the carry
ing out of similar work in the west. The
duel es enci oi tin • onl ract was in the
provision that the system should be tested
under a 60 per rent flow of water. The
test lias been made throughout the full
length of tin* project on both sides of the
valley, and the new ditches, flumes and
siphons have stood the strain far better
than you Id possibly have been expected
The following statement contributed bv
J- C*. Stevens, engineer In charge, and a
man who in every respect Is capable of
passing Judgment upon that class of work,
shows that the system us completed is one
of the best and most substantial of the
kind that has ever been carried out on the
coast:
On July 7. IHI6. Just one year from the
date of signing the contract the West
Okanogan Valley Irrigation project was
completed, and the irrigation works pasesd
Into the hands of the board of directors
for operation and malntalnance
"As mi example of rapid construction
this is almost without a parallel. In spite
* *f a Very long and severe winter, during
which * onstruction work was practically
suspended for three months, the work was
• oinpleted within the lime limit named In
the contract, viz: in time for irrigation
during the season of I‘ll6.
"Heavy winter and spring thaws, an
exceptionally high June flood, severe rain
storms and eloutl hursts have put the
structures t• * a very severe test, and it is
gratifying to know that the canals, flumes,
pipes and bridges have withstood these
tests with no damages and no sign of
weakness.
\ I ter Hu* works were completed all the
main conduits wore put to the test of car
rylng 60 per cent, or more, of their max
imum eapai ity. All lines stood this severe
test without the slightest evidence of
weakness. When we consider that Irriga
tion canals are rarely, if ever, given such
a severe test when freshly built and before
banks have had time to settle, this show
ing Is most remarkable and speaks flu
ently for the stability nnd thoroughness of
the construction work.
“Having passed successfully through ail
these tests there is absolutely no doubt
whatever as to the future success of this
Irrigation system.
"A. Guthrie & Go., contractors, deserve
a great deal of credit for the rapid and at
the same time thorough manner In which
the construction work was performed, and
the district Is to be congratulated upon
having fallen heir to so complete and sat
isfactory a svstem of irrigation works."
J. C. STEVENS.
Enginer In Charge.
PRESBYTERIAN CHURCH.
Sunday school at 10 a. m. Preaching at
11 o’clock. You are Invited to all of our
services.
A. W. BOND. Pastor
- -
W. 11. Ah--Daniel, of Loomis, was in town
Tuesday.
Mrs. Della Meyers, of Chesaw, was a
visitor in town Tuesday.
The Deborah society will meet with Mrs
S. TI. Sanderson Wednesday afternoon.
July IH.
E. W. Henderson, formerly section fore
man at this station, and now located at
Hillsard, was in town over Tuesday night.
Mr. Henderson is looking exceedingly well
and is in line spirits.
A heavy rain storm in the nature of a
cloud burst, struck the narrow Simiika
mei'ii valley Wednesday afternoon, only a
few miles west of Oroville, doing consid
erable damage to the main irrigating can
al. The excessive rain was one of those
unexpected and unusual interpositions of
providence that no provisions can he made
m advance to meet, and the acident was
through no fault whatever in the construc
tion of the ditch.
Three private care containing J. M.
Guber, vice president of the Great Nor
thern. J. O’Neil, general superintndent of
the western district, Frank J. Gavin, sup
erintendent of the Spokane division, H. E.
Dandus, superintendent of the Marcus di
vision. Win. Kelley, general master me
chanic western division and other offi
cials connected with the road, came in
Tuesday from Spokane and went down
the branch Wednesday morning.
H. K. Duns of lowa, a gentleman who
has been instrumental in locating Danish
colonies in Minnesota and other states of
the middle west, came in with H. B. Rus
sell this week to look over the valley under
the irrigation system with the object of
placing a colony if the prospects looked In
viting. Mr. Duus was somewhat non-com
mit.»i as to bis intentions at an interview,
but expressed himself as quite well pleas
ed with the country, stating that it had
the making of a great country. The col
onics that Mr. Duns lias heretofore placed
have turned their attention to dairying,
and it is felt that upon investigation the
visitor will realize that for dairying this
valley can hardly be excelled.
M. B. Ifowe, of Waerville, was a visitor
in Uroville Tuesday and Thursday of this
week, while traveling through the country
in the interests of his candidacy for Joint
senator. Mr. Howe has made a most favor
able impression upon every person he has
met, and it could not be otherwise, lie has
every attribute of a gentleman, which ap
peals to every man. lie can intelligently
discuss any question that arises, and as he
is plain spoken, playing the game fair and
above hoard, those who meet Mr. Howe at
once feel that they can place Implicit con
fidence in him. He has received Hie most
encouraging promises of support from all
parts of the district, and should he be
nominated and elected the district would
have a representative in the upper house
that the people need never feel ashamed
of.
The statement is authorized that L.
IWork will remove from Oroville in
the near future. Mr. Work has been
for nearly eleven years an executor of
tlm estate of .1. M. Hagerty who died
in 1905. This estate could not be dis
tributed under the terms of the will
until the youngest child of Mr. Hag
ei Iy should roach the age of 21 years,
which will be about October Ist next.
Recently the plant of the Slmllkameen
Power Co., the largest asset in which
die estate was interested, was sold,
and preparations are being made to
do; e the estate prompUy at the time
specified. Mr. Work has resigned hie
position with the Union Title & Trust
Company and is now winding up Ids
1 (csor.al affai”s with a view of leaving
s iic time tills fall. lie has net an
nounced his future location or employ
ment, but thinks it will be somewhere
on the Atlantic coast, near one of the
great population centers.
»L6O HER YEAR
