The Caldwell atchman
VOL. 30. COLUMBIA. LOUISIANA, FRIDAy, JULY 14, 1916.
• • nmll Iml I  /llNmC)
LOUISIANA TROOPS
PROCEED SLOWLY
NO MOVEMENT TO BORDER IS
THOUGHT LIKELY BEFORE
JULY 15.
2100 MEN NOW IN CAMP
Col. Stubbs Announces Work of Meas
uring, Uniforming and Undergoing
Medical Examinations Is Taking
Up Entire Time of the Men.
Camp Stafford.
The opinion was expressed that
there will be no movement of troops
from Camp Stafford before July 15
and probably not by that date, as the
regiment cannot be moved until the
physical examinations and the muster
ing of the men has been completed
and they are all equipped with tnm
necessary clothing and oti~r 'accoun
terments. This, it is announced, will
require at least ten days and probably
a greater length of time.
The men are being measured and
presented with uniforms and equip
ment and they are being given the
pysical examinations as rapidly as the
work can be rushed forward. There
are now 2,100 men in camp and addi
tional recruits are being received
daily in large numbers. It has now
been definitely determined that the
loss from disqualifications, through
failure to pass the medical examina
tions will not average more than ten
per cent.
The United States flag presented to
Company M. of Alexandria, several
days ago by the local chapter, Daugn
ters of the American Revolution as a
regimental flag, and was unfurled for
the first time.
Col. Stubbs announces that the ac,
tive work of measuring, uniforming
and undergoing the medical examina
tion is taking up the entire time of
the men and they will have no time
for'any other diversions.
STATE HAPPENINGS.
Reports from planters near Shreve
port and adjoining parishes show there
is an inerease of 10 per cent in cotton
acreage over the area planted last
season. The increase is not confined
to any particular locality nor evenly
distributed between hill and river
lands, but is uniform in both cases,
planters in general apparently having
extended their acreage in anticipation
of increased demand for staple next
fall.
A movement has been started by
Crowley citizens to provide a fund for
the support of families that may be
left in need by the call to arms of
the soldiers. Signers obligate them
selves to dqnate a small sum each
week or month, the fund to be placed
in the hands of a committee for dies
tribution.
Dr. A. L. Sneed, a Shreveport oil
and gas operator, was fined $10 and
sent to the parish jail for five days
by Judge John R. Land as the result
of an altercation between him and J.
M. Foster, a lawyer, to whom Dr.
Sneed is alleged to have applied the
short and ugly word with embellish
ments.
Silas Thomas, aged 23, a farmer,
was struck by lightning and instantly
killed while at work in his field two
miles south of Hackley. A small ne
gro boy named Brumfleld, who was
with Thomas, was seriously shocked.
Work on the $50,000 West Carroll
court house building at Oak Grove is
progressing rapidly. Caldwell Bros.,
the contractors, expect to complete
the, building in time for the Septem
ber term of court.
The boll weevil has arrived at Gray
son and getting in his deadly work
in the cotton crop. Only one car of
Irish potatoes was shipped from here
this season. It was bought by J. C.
Pierce and went to Kansas City.
Another great field adds to the min
eral wealth of Louisiana with the dis
covery at Anse la Butte field, near
Breaux Bridge, of an excellent natur
al lubricating oil, in sufficient quan
tity to meet a large demand.
Water hyacinths will be used in
making commercial paper, it is said
at Estherwood, and the idea will be
tested with a view of erecting a large
paper mill on the Medlenka river near
here.
The Ziegler Dredge Company Is ope
rating its dredge boat west of the
Morris canal in Estherwood, going
thence to the Roy farm.
APPROPRIATION BI1LS
NOW BECOME LAWS
RESOLUTION TO BORROW $5,000
TO PARTICIPATE IN EXPO
SITION SIGNED.
b:aton Rouge.
Al! appropriation hills p;,!led at
this sessionl have been sitgnod by the
governol r anid will now b(colii laws.
'i'he goverinor nottified lie House t ha
he had signed twenty-fit, rlore bills.
Of thi. nnimuer Itwenty three were ap
proplrialion bills. including the genera l
appropriation hill.
.Among the measures signed which
were not InIeyV iIeasuI'res werett I ho
Powell bill creating a one-mial co.nser
vation co(lnnission, and the Kanitz
New Orleans municipal bridge bill
The Roy louse concurrent resolu
tion, alirlhorizing the State Board of
Liquidation to borrow .*5,000 to enl
able the state to participate in tlho
Mississippi ('entenial also was among
the bills signed.
The measure became a law withnll
Iwenty-four hours after it was intro
duced in the House, setting a record
for the session.
The bills signed follow:
By W. C. Jones-Appropriating $2.
670.60 to pay the state's pro rata of
paving in front of state property in
Baton Rouge.
By Mr. Powell-Carrying an ai pro
priation for the expenses of the boara
of commissioners for the promotion
of uniformity of legislation in the
United States and for the expenses of
the nalional conference of commis
sioners of uniform state laws.
By Mr. Foster-Reimbursing Sheriff
Perkins of Grant parish for money er
roneously paid into the state treasury.
By Mr. Kent---Refunding $50 to the
First National Hank of Minden. er.
roneously paid into the state treasury.
By Mr. Cooke-Making an appro.
priation to pay the expenses of the
fire marshal's office.
By Mr. Saint-Appropriating $139.09
to pay V. IZ. Smith 'of Franklin for
surveying state lands.
By Mr. Evans-Providing for the
relief of Mrs. Evelyn King.
By Mr. Hamley - Appropriating
$150,000 to pay warrants issued against
revenues of 1915.
By Mr. McCullough-Appropriating
$58.20 to J. R. and H. Haymon of
Leesville for money erroneously paid
into the state treasury.
By Mr. Leclere-Making an appro
priation to pay a deficiency in the ap
propriation for public printing.
By Mr. Kantz-The New Orleans
municipal bridge bill.
By Mr. Vuillemot-Appropriating
$1,125 to reimburse Sheriff Henderson
of Iberia parish for money erroneous
ly paid into the state treasury.
By Mr. Saint (by request)-Author.
izing and directing refund of near
beer licenses for 1916.
By Mr. Hughes - Appropriating
$800 to pay Dr. A. W. Turner for
looking after the state's interests in
the Red River oil field.
I Mr. Capper-Appropriating $300
for use of the Louisiana commission
on legislative procedure.
By Mr. Upton-Appropriating $5,
000 out of the general fund for imr
provements at the East Louisiana
Hospital for the Insane, Jackson.
By Mr. Hanley - Appropriating
$163.43 to reimburse Mrs. Louis La
coste, wife of the late Sheriff Lacoste
of Lafayette, for money erroneously
paid into the state treasury.
By Mr. Hamley-Appropriating $16,.
000 for parish fairs.
By Mr. Hamley-Appropriating $96,-.
028.48 to reimburse the fiscal agency
banks for money borrowed by the
state board of liquidation.
By Mr. Hamley-the general appro.
priation bill.
House concurrent resolution by Mr.
Roy-Authorizing the boaro of liqui
dation to borrow )5,000 to enable the
state to participate in the Mississippi
Centential Exposition.
By Mr. Boudreau-Reimbursing
Mrs. Euphemie Lachasse, of Abbe.
ville, for money erroneously paid into
the state treasury.
By Mr. Powell--P,.cing the affairs
of the conservation commission in tne
hands of one commissioner.
By Mr. Hamley--Making an appro
priation to pay thle expenses of tne
conservation commission.
By Mr. Hamley-Approprlating $S.
000 for the military records depart
ment.
While two little playmates, Masters
Graham and Kojis, of Bunkie, were
playing in the sand at the home of
Mr. John Kojis, the little Kojis boy
had the misfortune to lose two of the
fingers of the right hand, the same
being chopped off by young Graham.
Graham' was digging in the sand with
a hatchet when his companion stuck
his hand in the way, directly under
the blade of the weapon.
DEUTSCHLAND WILL
DEPARTSUBEFi IIED'
READY TO DISCHARGE HER $1,0
000,000 CARGO AND TAKE ON
METALS AND RUBBER.
REGULAR SERVICE PLANNED
After Examination of Undersea Mar
vel She Is Held to Be a Merchant
men-Voyage Across Atlantic
Made Mostly on Surface.
Baltimore. -The German submarine
merchant man Itieutseliland is ready to
discharge her $1,000.01,0 cargo and
take aboard for the return trip metal
and rubber needed by the emperor's
armies and navy. The return mer.
chandise is waiting on the dock and
the time for leaving port will depend
largely upon plans for eluding vigilant
enemy cruisers expected to be waiting
outside the entrance of Chesapeake
Bay.
The daring German seamen who
brought the Deutschland across the
Atlantic slept quietly in their vessel,
which lay moored to a carefully
screened pier guarded by a strong
squad of Baltimore police. Capt. Paul
Koenig, the skipper, had delivered his
papers to the North German Lloyd of.
fice, entered his vessel at the customs
house as a commerce carrier and had
presented to a German embassy offi
cial a package of correspondence for
Count von Bernstorff.
One of Capt. Koenig's first acts af
ter he moved his ship up the harbor
from quaratine was to announce that
the Deutchland was but one of a fleet
of mammoth submersibles built or
building for a regular trans-Atlantlc
freight and mail service. He said the
next to come would be the Bremen,
and that she might be.
some port along the coah 
weeks.
Anxious to establish promptly his
peaceful character and to forestall m
vestigation sought by diplomatic rep
resentatives of the allied powers, the
German captain submitted his craft to
a thorough inspection by the surveyor
of the port and an agent of the De
partment of Justice.
These officers, as well as the cus
toms inspectors and quarantine sur
geons, agreed that there was no sign
of armament of any description on
board and that there was not doubt
in their minds about the boat being
entitled to the status of an ordinary
merchantman.
The captain asserted further that
his voyage had established the fact
that a submarine of the type of the
Deutschland could travel anywhere
that an ordinary vessel could go, 13,"
000 miles, if necessary. He had no
fears, he stated, of his ability to elude
enemies that might be waiting for him
off the Virginia capes when he starts
his return trip.
"I will be able to submerge within
the three-mile limit, and they cannot
catch me after that," he said.
During nearly the entire voyage to
America, said Capt. Koenig, the
Deutschland traveled on the surface.
Once she submerged for 10 hours and
lay during that time on the bottom of
the English channel to escape British
destroyers. Capt. Koenig piloted his
Svessel out of Bremen on June 14. He
went directly to Helgoland, remaining
there nine days. On June 23 the sub
marine slipped away from the island
fortress, and the trip which ended in
Baltimore was begun.
Railroads Rush Supplies.
New York.-Railroads throughout
the United States have been notified
to hasten the movement of all govern
ment supplies consigned to the Mext
can border. In emergencies govern
ment supplies will be given prece
dence over ordinary freight shIlp
ments.
McCormick in Charge.
New York.-Vance C. McCormick,
chairman of the Democratic National
Committee, assumed charge of the
New York headquarters. The West
ern headquarters will be established
in Chicago instead of Denver, accord
ing to MIr. McCr'rmick.
Film Companies Merged.
New York.-The Famous Players
Company and the JQsse E. Lasky
Feature Play Company have been
merged into th Famous Players-Las
ky Corporation, with a capital of
i$12,500,000.
Atlanta Papers Increase Price.
Atlanta, Ga.-Prices of both the At
lanta afternoon papers were raised
from two to three cents. The increas
ed cost of production was given a
the cause.
ALL NEEL CHANGE OF DIET
Winter Foods Shou!d Not Be Contin
ued During the Hot Days of
the Summer.
Change of dlit is JMus a ., nti:ýl to
good. health, onre the WaO rut \i1ther
arri s, a sl cl(hlnge of l othes. No
one ;would think of hrIsing in heavy
woo s, furs anld vlIvets with the
the>loneter soaring. Why, then, feed
the Vstemi during the hot days with
the ame sort of heavy food which
*015 up the winter menu?
T few housewives realize that the
bo, raves 'hange of dliet once the
Sweather sets in. They go on
se in May hot soups, steaming
me heavn desserts, just as though
It the middle of winter :lla(l then
wo why their families do, not seem
to their food.
In .Iay to serve summer
I r warm wea:tlher is then here
S ange of diet is necessary to
Ith. Make the first change
in ppearance of the table. If
yo e been in the habit of using
cot e dollies during the sum
i n. as they give the appear
4 o lness and summer comfort.
Tll too, a great saving of labor
d e warm weather season. It
1s task to wash out a big table
a berry stain mars its
1 euty, but if a doily he
ed how easy it is to take
piece and dip it into the !
. ng the berry and fruit sea
so many spots are apt to
p matter how careful the din-!
-labor-saving scheme should
b ~ consideration.
t0o usewives go so far as to
o-the paper dollies for the
throwing them away as
thl) e soiled. These come In so
designs and are so Inex
et t this form of table adorn.
Itenat pretty and economical.
SP ~N VARNISHED TABLE!
that Annoy Housewife May
nated if Proper Methods
Are Employed.
ron
tY n oi heat from hot
not worry a careful house
- long if she will remember that
original appearance of the var
- may be restored by simply re
f ing its surface. To do this it is
a ssary to apply some varnish sol
v t-not varnish remover-and then
a w it to dry. The most easily ob.
ed solvents are alcohol and am
m lia. Moisten a bit of clean cloth
the solvent, rub it quickly over
tlh white spot, then let it dry. Per
m the moistened cloth to touch the
vanish but a few seconds for as soon
as the varnish is acted upon by the
solerit it will rub off, leaving the
wood on the table bare.-L. S. Foltz,
Colorado Agricultural Oollege, Fort
Collins, Colo.
Flavor of Berries Improved.
To one box (one pint) of strawber
ries, picked over, washed (if they are
of good size, slice them crosswise),
add one teacupful of sugar and one
teaspoonaful of vanilla stir carefully
until sugar is mixed with the berries,
let stand three or four minutes before
putting on the shortcake, which
should be warm and well spread with
butter. Serve at once with whipped
cream, or without. The vanilla im.
proves the flavor of the berries to a
very notable degree.
Making a Mattress Pad.
Make a cover of cheesecloth, meas
uring it a quarter of a yard all around
larger than the mattress. Then spread
It on the mattress, padding it thick
with cotton, just the size of the mat
tress. Tie it and leave a quarter of a
yard around without any cotton In tc
tuck ia around the mattress. Thil
does tway with any clumsiness and
does not pull away from the edge,
Cooking Beets.
Wasl them.
Don't scrape them.
The Skin must be intact.
This is an important item.
It broken, the flavor and color goes.
Boil slowly an hour, drain and rub
off the skins.
Theymay be diced and covered with
cream sauce.
Slice them into it while they are hot
and they're delicious.
You know the proportion, three or
four times as much oil as vinegar and
pepper and salt to taste.
Stowaway Chests.
The Upholstered stowaway chest Is
becoming a regular piece of bedroort
furnitur, and the newest have tall
end pie~Es that give the chest a settle
effect. ~o have a fabric that matches
or harmnOzes with the other furniture
in the rOn is essential in the cover
lng.
Here's a Trick.
Bob I little butter under the edge
of the po~t of the cream pitcher; It
will PrWveit a drop of cream from
raangiBdaden over the pitcher.
IIAPPEN aIN5in the
CITIE5
Topeka Girl Objects to Cowboy's Fierce Wooing
T Oi'iCl., KAN.--" lgh heeled boots. a broud- iurnied Stets'n, cw'ruroy
troiser's, a tiannel shirt, : Hile haulkerchief for a collar ard a e,-foeet-4 man
inside of themi, are all . right in Ie .r eroper Set in . A;- (ssoitii With a lariat.
:, co it ,p and jr'i ries that fade
away i tile ikt, e'I they forI a conbi
Iletit n that tei!hlit alteal to any city
.. ); irl an! Uti lyi~ :I Situtilttr tlirtathall.n
i /ltt ll' h iieltoiw Ile' I'ntl:lif',' that
i | , rroilll(i stilh a e olite it i',t!i el its
Saitive ha:llth has a habit ef f:uling
aw Whta tihean the riari ;'s up in Mtore
clothe's ti tnl lke's a visit to the girl's
S "' homie town.
T'hat's thet' reason 1. F. lFoiintailn
'ias taut in the ,hI \ e l t'o'IntV jail
:Intl MaII'i(, l'Paill ' Ilri h ;a tiic away oil a
visit. That s the miait 'eat. Othough the interval between the alleged
flirtation anh d Fountain's arrest is tilled with reasons. Miss Palmer says it was
a flirtation. Fountain say's it was the most serions thling that ever lh:,ppened
to him.
liountain lives in what Is left of the cow (icouniitry down in Pralitt oulilty.
He is typical of that country 20 years ago. Marie Palmner visited in his ;ilagh
borhood Stith the latest creations front Topeka millinery iili driessiaking
establishments. Fountain fell and he fell hard.
One day he turned his pony out to grass, thrcw his saddhle and bridle in a
corner of the ranchhouse, dressed up in his store clothes aind iought a ticket
for his girl's home town.
Fountain called at Miss Palmer's borne and calmliy announced that he hald
journeyed to Topeka to wed her. He didn't look like the same fellow she had
known out West. The store clothes spoiled the effect. Out on the prairie he
had been a picturesque figure. Out on W'est Seventh street, in Topeka, helit was
just a tall, gangling nman with clothes that wouldn't pass inspection at a fashion
show.
When Miss Palmer demurred Fountain pulled his six-shooter, she says, and
threatened to make a sieve of the whole neighborhood, including herself.
Miss Palmer made complaint and Fountaiu was arrested, but released on
promise to leave town.
Twenty Signed a Petition to Hang Preachers
ANNISTON, ALA.-To demonstrate the truth of his contention that the
average business man is so compliant lihe will sign almost any petition put
before him in evident good faith. eone of the most prominent business men of
Anniston circulated among 30 leading
business men of this city a petition JE
that the city council appoint a commit- ' IT wZA
tee to hang every minister of the Gos- P"-r/OiT- * JOKE ALL
pel in the town, and 20 signatures / T
were promptly attached. WHEE ý t
The petition started by asking the TO of NE(U 
city council to adopt an ordinance ex- aiT onegao l
cusing the ministers from paying a ALL E(ACitNs
sanitary tax. The document was ....
couched in legal language and ambled w*
along with numerous "whereas" and a
"wherefore" until the final paragraph
was reached, when it was shown that, in order to make payment of the tax
unnecessary, the ministers would have to be hanged.
Miracle in Gotham Court as Deaf Mute Speaks
EW YORK.-Two apparently able-bodied men begging on the subway con
course of the Brooklyn bridge during the rush hour attracted the attention
of Detective Callaghan of the mendicant squad. One man had his arm thrown
behind his back and his coat over it
to make it appear as though his arm
had been amputated. The other man
was making motions and holding out a
S ~ card on which was printed:
.ard"I have a wife and four children in
*Vermont. God has deprived me of
speech. Please help me."
Callaghan placed the two men un
der arrest and took them to the Tombs
police court for trial. The "dumb"
man, who had written his name as
George Drury, fifty years old, gave
every appearance of being deaf as well. The other man, James Murphy, was
very indignant at his arrest and insisted he was not begging.
When arraigned before Magistrate Corrigan they both pleaded not guilty
mad when Callaghan told of the circumstances leading up to the arrest Murphy
shouted:
"It's a lie. I didn't do it."
So boisterous did he become in his denial that he began jumping around
and one particularly vicious stamp of his foot landed on the tender toes of the
deaf and dumb man.
"Ouch !" shouted the deaf mute. "Get off'n my foot, you great big slob, or
I'll mop the room with you !"
Whereupon the frightened cripple leaped about with the agility of a ten
year old to escape the angry "mute."
"What marvelous cures !" exclaimed the magistrate. "Now, I must send
you both to the workhouse for a period of convalescence."
New York Eating Places Inspected and Tagged
EW YORK.-Probably never before have the restaurant proprietors of New
York city experienced such a shock as they have undergone recently. For
they have been told that whether they wished it or not their eating piaces
were going to be carefully examilned
by health department inspectors and ,i (
furnished with cards Indicating their 0ST lT
condition from a sanitary point of , 6 "
view.  CAnt
For the first time the man who * -m
patronizes them will have, as soon as 7
the department has completed Its / - /
i)resent work, a chance to know what
is going on behind the screen which
separates the kitchen from the dining g [ i=
room. and whether shining silver and i 1"
spotless linen in front is matched by
equally shining stewpans and clearn dishtowels in the rear. To hind this out, all
a man will have to do is to step up to the prilerietor aknd ask for the health
department inspection card. The proprietor, ,,f eourse, is not obliged to s.how
it, but if the ideas of Lucius P. Brown, director of the bureau of food and
drugs, who is responsible for the grading, are correct, it will be only the
proprietor who has reason to be ashamed of his card who will decline to
show It.
A glance at this card will show the customer in detail what the conditions
in the restaurant are, and whether, taken altogether, they mean that the res.
taurant is "good," "fair" or "bad." In the early inspections, about 4 per cent
of the eating places were graded as "good" or "fair" and the rest as "'bad."
