fafmtttjpwi
WW
VOL. 4.
FARMINGTON, ST. FRANCOIS COUNTY, MISSOURI, FRIDAY, JULY 14. 1916.
NO. 27
ASSESSOR LAWENCE WELLS
"DELIVERING THE GOODS"
His Books Show That He Is Bringing
Up The Values Of Corporation
Property To Proper Level.
County Assessor Lawrence 0. Wells
is now deep in the work of making the
1917 asessment for St.Francois coun
ty, which will keep him busy until
December 1, by which time the entire
assessment must be completed, ac
cording to the law governing that
matter. It will also be impossible for
him to give much time to his present
campaign, as he is determined to give
to his office all the time necessary to
nrnnprlv nevfnrm his work.
And right here The Times would
suggest that there appears to be a
very serious flaw in the law govern
ing this office. It is practically
impossible for a new man on the job
to make a fair and equitable assess
ment of all properties subject to tax
ation within the time prescribed by
law that the assessment must be made.
Yet the assessment is supposed to
cover the property on hand June 1st,
so that the making of the assessment
could not be at all reliable if the
work were commenced before that
date. Therefore it would seem that
the one way to increase the efficiency
in the Assessor's office would be to
give him more time for the work
say make the date covering property
to be assessed April 1 instead of June
1. This would give the Assessor two
more months in which to do the as
sessing and make up his books.
A Times reporter this week secured
a few totals from Assessor Wells'
books, which show a most satisfying
condition of affairs in that office. For
instance, we found that the present
incumbent's assessments for the years
1914-15 were in excess of his prede
cessor's assessment for the years
1912-13 to the amount of $912,467; to
tal taxes levied for 1914-15 were ii
excess of those of 1912-13 to th
amount of $92,324. Here are the fig
ures: Total assessment 1912-13, $24,096,586
Total assessment 1914-15, 25,099,053
Net gain for two years, $ 1,003,467
Total taxes levied on above
assessments for 1912-
13 $453,643.63
Total taxes levied on above
assessments for 1914-
15, 546,9ti?.00
Net gain in revenue of
1914-15 over 1912-13,...$ 92,324.00
County Court
Proceedings
Court met for one day on July 3, all
the officers being present and trans
acted the following business:
The Sugar Grove Telephone Co.,
composed of David Hartshorn, John
Pinkston, L. T. Hart, ct al., was grant
ed rights to set up poles, etc., neces
sary to construct its line.
E. K. Hawn and the DeSoto Crush
ing and Construction Co. filed bonds
under their contract to furnish
crushed rock, the former for the Jack
son road and the latter for the Bis
marck and Frankclay road.
County Clerk Wulfert filed his ac
count for making the tax books for
1916 for the use of the Collector and
for extending the taxes upon the as
sessment books for said year, and for
other services. The same was ap
proved and the Clerk was authorized
to certify to the State Auditor for
payment the amount due for such
services by the State, amounting to
$617.40.
The Murphy and White Telephone
, Co., a copartnership, was granted the
right to construct its telephone lines,
beginning at Knob Lick and running
along the Knob Lick and Mine La
Motto road to the Madison county
line.
Gilbert Rigsbee, adjudged insane,
was committed to State Hospital No.
4 as a county patient.
Court adjourned to Monday, July
10. when it convened with all the of
ficers present, and held a two-days'
session, transacting the following
business:
Appointment of Judges of Election
for the Primary Election August 1st.
List of Judges appears under separate
heading:
F. L. Graham and Dock Mackley
were selected, the former by J. W.
Bancs and the latter by the Court, to
arbitrate a claim of Mn Banes for
certain ground used from his farm
on a county highway.
The State Auditor was authorized
and requested to draw his warrant in
favor of County Treasurer Haile for
amount of salary due County Super
intendent of Schools for quarter end
ing June 30th.
C. W. Francisco, highway engineer,
filed plans, specifications and esti
mates of cost for permanent and con
tinuing improvement of Burks road
(1 1-4 miles), St. Louis road (2
miles), Bismarck and Frankclay road
21-2 miles), Jackson road (11-2
miles), consisting of grading, con
crete culverts and permanent rock
dressing, the estimated cost of which
is $25,000. The plans, etc., were ap
proved by the court, and the amount
ordered to be set aside from the road
funds for that purpose. It was also
ordered that the clerk make requisi
tion upon the State Auditor for $12,-
In view of the above remarkable
showing, it is but just to say that the
assessable value of St. Francois coun
ty property has not been noticeably
increased, nor diminished. The prop
erty as shown in the 1914-15 assess
ments has been here all the time, but
those figures are but an indication of
what a difference a close, careful and
capable assessment can mrke. That
Assessor Wells is unusually careful
and capable along such lines cannot
be successfully gainsaid. The above
figures substantiate such a state
ment. The present assessment has already
progressed sufficiently far to make the
prediction a certainty that the pres
ent year's tax levies will again be in
creased by many thousands of dol
lars over last year's assessment. Yet
the raise will not be on farm nor city
property, which will not be boosted
in any way. But the great increase
in assessments will come from raises
in corporation holdings a.id consider
able other property that has hereto
fore escaped taxation. Thin indicates
the efficiency that comes from exper
ience and ability.
This year Bonne Terre alone will
receive an increase in assessment of
$222,308 over last year, which will
mean an absolute loweri;ig of school
taxes, even though a new school build
ing has just been completed there.
Flat River will have an increase in
assessed values of $280,813, which
will net them in increased taxes $15,
540.88 more school money than in
1912-13. Other districts, such M Des
loge and Lcadwood, show proportion
ate increases in their assessment. The
'ssessment throughout the county for
he present year, over that of last
fear, will be, conservatively speaking,
.omething near $1,000,000.
Do you think that anyone could
make a just and equitable assess
ment? We would reply that there are
few more difficult things to accomplish
than an absolutely fair assessment of
property values in such a county as
St. Francois. Lawrence Wells has
practically all the natural qualities
for making a just assessment, and
now, with his four years of experience
in that office, he is prepared to "de
liver the goods", as it will be found he
has done, when the present assessment
is completed.
500 from the State general road fund
under chapter 5, sections 11914 to
11918 revised statutes.
J. W. Carr made payment in full of
school fund bond and mortgage and
clerk was directed to enter satisfac
tion on margin of record of same. .
The State Auditor was authorized
and directed to draw his warrant in
favor of County Treasurer Haile for
amount of teachers' training course
money appropriated to county for the
Flat River school district.
E. B. AuBuchon was exempted from
work on the public roads on account of
physical disability.
Dr. T. L. Hodges et al. petitioned
for improvement of certain streets or
roads in the unincorporated town of
Esther, and the highway engineer was
directed to improve same.
J. D. Huff, road overseer, filed
Treasurer's receipt for $135 subscrib
ed for improvement of Pilot Knob and
the Iron Mountain and Libertyville
road, and the court appropriated a
like amount and appointed the over
seer as supervisor of expenditure or
same.
The highway engineer was author
ized to employ a clerk during the
months of July, August, September
and October to take care ot pay roll
and other work in his omce.
T. L. Bunts was loaned $1,400 of the
capital school fund of the county.
Effie Bishop was adjudged insane
and committed to State Hospital No.
4 as a county patient.
To Miami
Mineral Fields
Messrs. George K. Williams and A.
O. Nichols left Wednesday for the
Miami, Okla., mineral field, where
they will locate and sink a shaft on
their mining property, which, The
Times has been informed, promises
rich development. That fieid is now
drawing more attention, perhaps, than
all others, owing to the rich mineral
bodies that seem to everywhere abound
in that locality.
Farmington prospectors particular
ly seem to be fortunately located in
that field, and The Times hopes that
the most sanguine hopes of Messrs.
Williams and Nichols will be abun
dantly realized from their mining
leases in that field.
More "Arrivals"
The following new subscriptions to
The Times have been received the
past week: J. G. Williams of Valle
Mines, J. S. Beard of Bellflower, Judge
H. B. Ledbetter and John Graham of
Farmington, Dr. E. B. Kenner of Gal
veston. Texas; I. F. Robinson, Route
6 Farmington, Parkhurat S!eefh, Flat
River.
Primary Election
Following is a list of the Judges of
Election for tho Primary Election,
August 1, together with the name and
number of the precincts and pest-of-(icc
addresses, where the address is
different from the name of the pre
cinct: Farmington No. 1. Dan Giessing,
Josiah Bruett, Rine Lang, Thos. H.
Stam, John Towl, Wm. O'SuIlivan.
Farmington No. 2. Barney Pelty,
Wm. Matkin, Peter Mell, Lott Griffin,
Sam Isenman, John Harter.
DeLassus No. 3 P.O. address, Farm
ington R. F.J). No. 6. John Flanncry,
Giles Hunt, C'r.as. Lotz, Gus Halter,
Dr. E. M. Herwig, Zach P. Cole.
Flat River No. 4. Don Cameron,
Jesse M. Garrett, Henry Thomson, F.
M. Hnrtnn, S. R. Hart. Ceo. W. Cloud.
East Flat River No. 5. P. O. ad
dress, Flat River. George Jordan,
Bert Cooper, R. H. Robinson, John
Benham, Guy Eaton, Irvin Smith.
Esther No. G. Jas. Medlock, J. M.
Appleberry, O. L. Johnson, J. W.
Jones, Emmett Barton, Wm. Perry
man. East Elvins No. 7. P. O. address,
ElvinB. Chas. Large, Carter Ashlock,
J. P. Head, Carl Jamison, Ralph New
comer, Perry Moore.
St. Francois No. 8. Gilbert John
son, N. A. Zimmerman, Ray Stewart,
L. A. Poston, Sam Chamberlain, Judge
A. W. Kmzer.
Bonne Terre No. 9. J. H. Wolpers,
Henry McFarland, Geo. Hargrave, A.
K. Fraser, Fred Francis, Harve Pirtle.
Boevtown No. 10. P. O. address,
Bonne Terre. Thos. G. Mitchell, Geo.
N. Fake, Ben Bisch, Abe Ringer, Les
ter Wells, W. H. Maddern.
Cedar Falls No. 11. P. O. address,
Bonne Terre R. F. D. No. 1. Louis
Merritt, John Cook, A. S. Krekle, Abe
Herod, Wm. Rubottom, Kennett By
ington. Hazel Run No. 12. r. U. address,
Bonne Terre R. F. D. No. 1. Wm.
Cloe, Charley Fowler, Ed Landolt,
Bryan McCarthy, Jacob Bustier, Wm.
Benham.
French Village No. 13. John M.
Snodell. J. D. Pinkston, Emmett La-
hay, R. W. Pigg, T. O. Byington, W.
L. Eaton.
Chudbourne No. 14. P. O. address,
Halifax. Jake Mathey, Peter Mur
phy. W. E. Heaton, Geo. Turley, J. T.
Boring, Ed Dryden. e
BarroH's Orchestra
a Hit at Arcadia
Barrell's Concert Orchestra of
Farmington, assisted by Miss Mabel
Sackman, reader, Mr. Carl Trauer
nicht, monologist, and Miss Barbara
Caroline Tulloek, violiniste, gave two
very successful concerts at the Meth
odist Assembly at Arcadia this week.
The first concert was Tuesday eve
ning, and the second Wednesday af
ternoon. Owing to the fact the As
sembly was just beginning, and those
who customarily attend it had not all
arrived yet, the crowds were rela
tively small. But it was estimated
there were 1500 people at the evening
concert, and fully 2000 the next after
noon, coming from all parts of Mis
souri and a few from other States.
The orchestra pleased the audience
thoroughly, as usual, and quite a few
people were surprised to find so un
common an organization hailing from
a small town like Farmington. A St.
Louis traveling man who happened to
be present said: "I've been a regular
attendant at Chautauquas for the past
ten years, wherever I've been, and
have heard many musical attractions,
but I have never heard anything so
thoroughly good of its kind before.
That town, Farmington, certainly
should be proud of an orchestra like
that."
Miss Sackman and Mr. Trauernicht
each held the audience spellbound in
definitely, and left the platform with
the applause ringing for more. Little
Miss Barbara Caroline Tulloek proved
a real hit before this audience and
was compelled to take an encore. The
vocal solos, cornet solos, piano duets,
string quartettes, violin solos, and
other specialties given by members of
the Orchestra were well received, as
they always are.
The Orchestra attended the Assem
bly as guests of the management, and
were royally entertained. The boys
and girls speak of Rev. Nelson B.
Henry as the prince of hosts, and his
associates all contributed to the gen
eral good time given the musicians.
It was the general opinion express
ed that no entertainment feature since
the Assembly started seven years ago
hai been of such universal pleasuio
and genuine delight to all as these
concerts of Barroll's Orchestra. And
it is productive of satisfaction here
at home that the boasted "talent" for
which Farmington is deservedly fa
mous could be so truly represented be
fore these audiences drawn from all
over the State. Barroll's Orchestra
is not only a source of pleasure to
Farmington but it is a valuable ad
vertisement as well. Barroll deserves
a great deal of credit for building up
so splendid an organization, and doing
it with the material found at home.
Anybody with the price can go into
the market and employ musicians,
but it is quite another matter to train
home boys and girls so that they be
come genuinely proficient and make
it unnecessary to import outside tal
ent. This is exactly what Barroll has
done for Farmington, and while the
town has in the past had many bands,
it has not hitherto had a real orchestra-
me worthy of a name honored
since the nays ot the old masters.
Judges Selected
Blackwcll No. 15. James Pashia,
J. R. Politte, Sed Johnson, Everett
Cole, Robert Worden, John Butler.
Bismarck No. 16. Hugh Steele,
Wm. U. Dcvine, Gus Steffen, Chris
Sansoucie. ('. J. Hill, James W. Mat
kin. Iron Mountain No. 17. J. L. Eaton,
John Williams, Henry Ruh, John Huff,
W. H. Forshee, Jackson Matkin.
Libertyville No. 18. C. P. Dctring,
E. O. Presnell, N. C. Sebastian, D. M.
Lewis, Theo. Kiepe, Ralph Tillman.
Knob Lick No. 19. Pleas Williams,
R. A. Murphy, W. M. Milne', Rob Hib
bitts, J. S. Jarnigan, Henry O'Bannon.
Rockwoud No. 20. P. O. address,
Womack.--.Iohn Johnson, W. A.
King,John Shaw, Lawso:, McLarney,
Joshua Halm, George Beard.
Doe Run No. 21. Sherman West,
J. L. Cleveland, Fritz Gruncr, Frank
Robinson, Joseph Faulkner, Dan
O'SuIlivan.
Desloge No. 1, No. 22. F. B. Con
way, F. M. Monroe, Rolla Watson,
Gus Euhler, I. I). Meadows, James
Morris.
Desloge No. 2, No. 23. Geo. Jink
erson, W. P. Sizemore, Geo. Cartec,
Frank Sterratt, William Eaves, Jas.
B. Ward.
West EK ins No. 24. P. O. address,
Elvins. Paul Roegner, Geo. Langdon,
Robert Maurer, T. J. Buekner, H.
McCarron, Ixaiis Layne.
Lead wo.. I No. 25. Lee Hulsey,
John Sizemore, Emmett McComber,
W. P. Belknap, Ellis Seaborn, Wm.
Day.
Frankclay No. 26. W. M. Mills, A.
G. O'Neal. Ferd Strauser, Sam Mc
Farland, W. M. Compton, George Jor
dan. Davis dossing No. 27. P. O. ad
dress, Elvins R. F. D. No. 1. Chas.
Penberthy, Norman Belknap, R. Black,
Geo. Crocker, O. E. Hansbrough, Geo.
Lindsay.
Mitchell No. 28. P. O. address, El
vins R. F. I). No. 1. E. H. Duemlcr,
Emmett Belknap, Fred Snead, J. W.
McDowell. John Mueller, John Hardin.
Cherry ville No. 29. P. O. address,
Leadwood. Geo. Hughes, E. W.
Hughes, John Akers, T. J. Simms,
Fred Bradlcv, J. H. Tulloek.
Clearview No. 30. P. O. address,
Farmington R. F. D. No. 3. W. E.
Boyd, Leo F. Smith, Geo. Herzinger,
Elza Burgess, Geo. Mackley, C. C.
Simms.
Good Work By
The D. A. R.
The Strah Barton Murphy Chapter
Daughters of the American Revolu
tion have, been engaged in the com
mendable work of putting the Knights
of Pythias Cemetery in a presentable
condition. Crystal Lodge K. of P. has
turned over to them the amount it
has used to go over the grounds about
once a year to cut out the too abun
dant undergrowth and weeds, and
with this and a few small donations
by persons owning lots in the ceme
tery or having loved ones buried there,
some progress has been made; but
with the limited means at their dis
posal the work is but half begun.
It is a work of love as well as lo
cal pride that prompts them, and they
hope to be able not only to make the
cemetery a more presentable place,
but a place of beauty and to sec that
it is kept in that condition. This they
cannot do unless they are substantial
ly encouraged and helped by all who
have loved ones resting there or own
lots. For this reason the Daughters
will be glad to receive donations from
these and other liberally disposed per
sons with which to carry on the work
they have so unselfishly undertaken.
It is a sameful disgrace the way some
of our cemeteries are neglected, when
they ought to be made beautiful and
inviting spots where the living may
go without a sense of shame and neg
lect to visit the graves of loved ones
and scatter the flowers of love which
so many of us failed to bestow when
they were still with us. But oh
"How soon we are forgot."
We hope this movement of the D.
A. R. will arouse in our community
a keener sense of duty and a larger
respect for the last sleeping places of
our dead, and a more generous spir
it impelling us to make cemeteries
what they should be. The individuals
so far who have made donations are:
Dr. Wm. Wescoat of Oran, $2.00
Mrs. I'. V. Ashburn, $2.00; Misses
Denby. $1.00; J. E. Clav, 50c; Mrs.
Barney Pelty, 50c; Mrs? Sarah E. Se
bastian, 50c; John Mackley, 50c; Mrs.
Warsing, 25c; Miss Louise Mackley.
25c. The Daughters hope to hear
from everyone who owns a lot in the
K. of I'. Cemetery with a liberal dona
tion. Don't wait to be asked and
don't be niggardly in your donations.
Thin'' of the unselfish work they are
putting into this movement and be
just as unselfish in your giving.
Fine Statements
Statements of the financial condi
tion of the three Farmington banks,
at the close of business on June 30h,
1918, appear in this issue of The
Times. Each of these statements in
dicate a healthy and prosperous con
dition of the affairs of these institu
tions. All of these financial institutions are
under the management and direction
of thorough and competent business
men. who are always readv and will
ing to extend any accommodation in
connection with safe and conservative
banking. These statements are wor
thy of careful consideration.
AN OLD AND WORN OUT
TELEPHONE SYSTEM
But Is Still Serving The Company's
Interest In Furnishing Excuse For
Collecting the Rent And Tolls.
Why should Farmington be forced
to continue to have wished upon her
an old, decrepit telephone system,
which has long since well earned its
right to being placed on the supcran
uated list, there to be tenderly and
prayerfully cared for during its dot
age? Isn't Farmington paying for
first-class telephone service, and is she
getting it, anytime or anywhere ? How
long will we be forced to pay for good
service, and then have forced upon us
the lowest possible order of service?
These questions are in line with the
many The Times has recently heard
in regard to Farmington's antiquated
telephone system. In regard to how
long Farmington will thus be imposed
and infringed upon, it is The Times'
opinion that the present inferior serv
ice could very quickly be brought to
an end, after a report of the real con
dition of the Farmington Telephone
System had been sent into the Public
Utilities Commission, whose business
it is to look into and to regulate such
public service corporations.
But little or no effort appears to be
made to accommodate the patrons of
the system, insofar as this city is con
cerned. The one thing that is always
,...,,! ,; nimarl -it iq In lemli V the
least possible service to permit of the .
collection oi rents ana ions, ine m
Pigg System good a decade ago, but
now slightly out of style is still do
ing service in Farmington. The one
principal difficulty we nave nouceu i
with these bones is that up-to-date
telephone users arc generally com- j
pelled to ask for instructions before
they can so much as get connections
J. E. Swanger Here
Hon. John E. Swanger of Sedalia
addressed a small assemblage in the
Circuit Court room here i'or about half
an hour Tuesday afternoon. He had
been heralded as an interesting speak
er, but disappointment on the part of
his hearers was clearly apparent. He
failed to indicate any knowledge of
governmental affairs with which a
gubernatorial t . .. Jste i a:cneroUy
supposed to be famirlar. Of course,
he presented a few ideals of what a
State government should be, very larg
ly impractical, but failed to state how
such government was to be obtained.
He failed absolutely to uphold the
recommendations the people here had
....... ,.f him nrwl has sunk, in the
minds qf fliose who heard him Tuesday
for the first time, to just an ordinary
JU.u. ,,.l,,,.v, ,,.i,.v.., ia nil ho re'il-
ly claims to be. Mr. Swanger had been
mooted in tins vicinity as dry
candidate, and some of his hearers
.. ,!!,., 1 ratir.nHv for some expression
from him in regard to the liquor is
sue, which he studiously avoided, ne
attempted to hold up the Hadley ad
ministration as one to be cmuiated,
but the memory of most of his hear
ers seemed to extend back that far,
and somewhat discredited his remarks
in that connection. Mr. Swanger is
perhaps big enough for Governor of
Missouri in fact The Times does not
believe that job requires an enormous
intellect but his effort here Tuesday
convinced those who heard him that
he has no special qualifications for
such position.
Mr. Swanger made a speech at Flat
River Tuesday night, and the large
crowd present was evidently so new
to him that it proved more or less dis
comforting. He made practically the
........ 1. ..,,! ,,r a talk fhprp ns hp Hid
here, absolutely void of points. He
went, out ol his way to say tnar. ne
supposed that all present were Re
publicans, but if there were any Dem
ocrats present would they hold up a
hand. Immediately the hands of about
hell f lhnp or,. sen! Weill, lin. which
appeared to anger him, and he made
some sort of an insulting remark in
regard to Democrats attending Re
publican meetings, just as though
such meetings were unfit for Demo
rata He Kiiflfninpd thp record he
made in Farmington of being wholly
inefficient for the governorship.
John Wilkson and
Wife Are Enjoined
John Wilkson was convicted of vio
lating the local option law at the re
cent term of the Circuit Court and ap
pealed his case, but continuous reports
have been coming to Prosecuting At
torney Davis that Wilkson persists in
his violation. On Wednesday of this
veek Mr. Davis filed with the Circuit
Clerk an injunction against John and
Ida Wilkson, his wife, forbidding
either of them keeping a restaurant
where any kind of drinks, "soft" or
itherwise, are sold. Judge Huck not
eing in reach, the Prosecuting Attor
icy, desiring immediate action, ap
plied to the County Court for a tem
porary injunction, which was granted.
Final action on the proceedings
will be heard at tho next term of the
'ircuit Court. A violation of the tem
porary injunction by either Wilkson
r his wife will subject tliem to oon
temet of eourt. and it is thought that
lerhaps this may restrain the old
man's disregard of law.
with "central."
And there it is again. Many, who
after ringing the gong until their
arm aches, are inclined to blame "cen
tral" with negligence. The truth is
that there are not enough girls in the
central office to properly attend to
the wants of the public. They are
capable and efficient, all right, but a
pair of hands can do only so much,
and the work that is required of them
is often in excess of their supply of
hands. So that in this respect, at
least, the management of the Farm
ington Telephone System is very near
ly approaching a crime, and if the
Public Utilities Commission were ac
quainted with the existing conditions,
The Times believes prompt action
would be forced in remedying the ag
gravated defects.
Furthermore, it appears that Farm
ington is being legislated against in
other respects. Throughout the en
tire Lead Belt we have noticed there
is installed up-to-date telephones,
while in the county seat of St. Fran
cois county telephones of the vintage
of the first product are still in use.
The Times has been waiting, rather
patiently, we feel, for some improve
ment in the telephone service, in con
formity to promises we understand
had been made many months since.
But now, not only this paper, but this
community in general, is rapidly ar
riving at a point where patience ceas
es to be a virtue, and a more or less
general uprising now threatens among
the telephone patrons if corrections
are not soon made to improve Farm
ington's telephone system.
Dr. Scrutchfield
Is Exonorated
The State Board of Charities and
Corrections convened Monday at State
Hospital No. 4, and have since been
engaged in a searching investigation
of the affairs and management of that
institution, which investigation has
been ordered to be m.f. thorough and
emUjrJatc. The Boai '. Manager of
the institution are also present to
render every aid and assistance pos
sible. A decision was reached last night
(Thursday), Superintendent Scrutch
field and the other Hospital officers
and the Board of Managers all sign
ing a written agreement drawn up by
the Board of Charities, by which Dr.
Scrutchfield and all officers of the in
stitution are retained.
Why Is This?
The Times has heard a number of
complaints recently, from citizens and
property owners in Farmington, many
of whom live along the electric car
line, caused from the fact that the
electric company run but few passen
ger cars through this city, most of
the cars starting either from the
postoffice or the depot. Just why such
an order should be made by the line's
management has never been made
public, and it is certainly a very great
inconvenience to a large part of the
residents and taxpayers of this city.
Especially when the weather is in
clement or not inviting does such hard
ship augment itself, forcing people
often to walk many blocks, when, if
the electric line would make trips
through the city, especially to connect
with all trains, they could catch the
car at their homes.
A street car line is supposed to be
for the benefit of the community
through which it runs, but, judging
from the frequent criticisms coming
to us recently, the electric line is
coming to be not so recognized. Many
are incilned to believe that it is "spite"
work" on the part of the company that
so many of the cars now start from
the postoffice or depot, paying ap
parently no attention to about half of
its roadbed through the city, except
for a very few trips each day. There
are at least 1,000 people at the State
Hospital alone, whose many wants
must be in a measure supplied by this
line. There is also a switch there on
which any freight car can be side
tracked, should they be in the way.
There is considerable feeling now fo
menting against the present running
of cars over the electric line, which
will probably result soon in a mass
meeting to remonstrate, if the pres
ent order is not repealed and the cars
are not run to the Hospital gates.
SUCCESSFUL FISHING TRIP
Judge E. E. Swink, County Collect
or James Croke, Francis A. Benham,
John Coffman and Paul Adams return
ed the first of the week from an en
joyable fishing trip of a few days'
duration, on the Saline, in Perry coun
ty, where these gentlemen, with a few
others, have erected a comfortable club
house, amid ideal surroundings for
fishing, bunting, rest and recreation.
They returned feeling p-reatly re
freshed and renewed for their various
duties, and report a splendid catch of
biss. croppie and perch, the eating of
which furnished much added enjoy
ment to the trip.
