Sltff
52D YEAR.
OREGON, MISSOURI, FRIDAY, JULY 14, 191G.-10 PAGES.
NUMBER 11.
County Court.
Our county court held It regular
July term, lat week, nnd transacted
its usual routine business.
The state auilitor was authorized to
draw hia warrant In favor of County
Treasurer Carson, In the sum of J37fi
for benefit of the Mound City school
district, for first half of year, 1010,
for teachers training course.
Tim mini Authorized the state au
ditor to draw his warrant In favor of
County Treasurer Carson for $'.'.000
for building alii to Consolidated Pis
trlrt. No. ii. Fortescue.
A concrete cuivert was ordered to
be placed at the William Nauman
place, and pait of the lumber in the
old culvett is to be used at the M. U
Trimmer farm, anil the remainder on
the road, near the widow Slrougli
place. This work Is to be under the
supervision of J. W. Judy, overseer of
District No. (1.
County Attorney Tibbcls filed Ids
report for term, ending June SO;
amount collected. t!.".
A. O. Danker, recorder, filed liM
report or lees collected ror tcim end
Int June BO, 51.0S1.
Jiimcs T. Ithodc filed bis receipt
from the county trcaurcr In the sum
nf J408 for swamp lund school fund,
n rcnulrcd bv order of the coutt.
mndc May 0, nnd the presiding Judge
f the court wns ordered to Issue
patent for the land purchased by the
raid Khodr. The mine order was
Issued, on payment of f82 by Fred
Collins; same to win. I. iirown, on
payment of ?21'2.
i. li. mmkci, county clerk, allowed
. KtyiaTTTH.'bMr. r"JtoffH b.-wiu cot j JX. TAfrj-'-M jjTgt; Lsyr t tossed
Xasy 41- tvhffoTr. Sf kM.nrrT; feMiu"T-rdi'r nnd .MlHrSfrr?iiVri;rT.r;.t " cWTndjr IT. To sent, General Cniwiiwi answered
News Snapshots Tb , ,i Vn iWr '"""' ' """'" '" Mt,x," T" ir,,,,.r.1 "f r .
A. , hrVTiWii TnTi niie nf the lrder helped to cre.ito it d-d lmpreloii of otir Intention. The lultlttnimn nt the fp.i t tar oMr.
Of the Week ' , S I. T The tf rx ted nM ..m-i..lc pnv In Hitwlty mi all front. Bnlnj Mm wW
cuHty of high treason. William It. Wllhov. i.ew ihalriiinn of liepnf.lkau lu.Moii il . ri.ii.dllcc. l now wutMini vut llmthe iniupului. T
$024 for making county tax book, am!
sV.ir. for state books.
Goorge K. Ilurger filed hi bond for
SI, too for construction and material
for concrete culverts. Continct were
n iinlcd Ilurger fur concrete culverts,
No. 4, ot the Ed Shull faim, southeast
of Mound City, at eTJ.fld per cubic
yard; No. D, at the 'U. Ilurger farm,
northeast of Oreirnn, at $i:i.7f per
cubic yard; No. 10, at the Kd I'ulir
innn farm, northeast of OieKon, ut
$tr0 per cubic yniil.
Ilond of Wm. Shiink, as overseer of
District 43, Nlckcll's drove, wa filed
nnd npproved.
Continct of W. II. Dumilhoo for
building concrete Intake for culvert
for $T wns approved.
County Engineer I'eret reported the
necessity of the county buying a tract
of land from Edgnr Melton, In 2X,
JIO, for the puiposc of changing water
course, near the Wm, Nauman cul
vert, containing .Uf acre for the
sum of 810. Tho court approved the
recommendation, Jnnd older It pur
chase, and a warrant was issued for
the kame.
Circuit Clcik Dunham filed his ab
stract of fee for month of June $81.
A TMejslty nrlslnr for n bridee at
the M. I. trimmer place, the court
ordered Highway Engineer Tcrct to
build a 10 or 18-foot bridire.
Slierlir (.elvln filed hi report of
fees for tjuarter ending June HO
On reconiinrniliidfin A lilulium'
Kntrlneer Vcirt.
the chance and relocation hf rn)
tliroUffh bind of I'. I Ntnlrn... Mr.. i.
west fourth, southwest iiunilr,
section !l. CO, U8, Hitlit of way Jiavlni
i" i I "amaite claimed.
!. I., htalcup i to do the necessaiv
Kradlnir, there hclnc no liridKe or
culvert required.
Illehway Knlnecr IVrct recom
mended a concrete culvert near the
1). . McDonald place, anil the court
onlered the Icttlnjr of same.
Drainage lllslrlrl Klirllnn.
1- UV.Inilnv. (In. Ml. Inst., the
land owner of the old .Smth Creek
Drainage District oiKanlrntiotl held
an election In the town of IHrcIoW, ut
the Woodman's Hall, to vote on tin'
proposition of extending the corporate
exlsti nee of the district. A very fair
representation' nf the ownership was
mesent. There nie l!,r.W acre cm
braced In the old corporation. There
weie l-'.niO vote cast at the election,
10,114 being for extending the cor
porate existence of the district, and
J.l?.'. being cast against the proposi
tion, the majority for being 8..'CU. and
also being n mnjoiity of OAS of the
whole district.
Proceedings for the extension of the
corporate existence of the district and
lor tile extension HI l.i.'.illiinr-, ami an
ntlur necesnry slips fer having the
"-cfiry engiiieeilnr none mr neces
nry r-c!nmatlon woil; will bo taken
nt Alice.
It Is Ill:(ly that there will be oppo
IMon on tl;'- part of n.r.e, to any
chep'c for the reelawtitloii of the
and In this bnsln, on tlu mrt nf
,omc, lionistly. bcrni'sc they do not
think It possible, while on the part ot
others, '.t 1 from n purely selfish point
nf view. thlnUliiir their land so located
that If land in other locations are
protected that their land will also bo
protected, and if It ! posilble to keep
their land out ot tlie nouniinry, incy
wlll get the benefit of drainage ami
n.'nlection from overflow without hav
L.. M i.nv for it. Thl I, of course,
.1 very narrow view of the question,
for though a certain tract of land may
bo so high that flood do not run 6Ver
I, .till If It ! uiirnhiniled bv lOW. WCt.
Lnanip and overflow land, nm! that i
I drStneil nnd the price dou .lid, the
hlgiMr land will HO increaseu in pneu
ciuito fl's much by reason of the KcnH
al uplift, Jut n n vacant lot Jn a city
I Incrcnwil.ln price by the erection
of valuable sliding on all adjoining
property. . II. lllllAKl'.-r
CltlM KKAPKU'S WOKK.
- r
DeMlh Claim A Number of
Clliens During the Past
Week.
dm'
Doole).
Another Niuiilful Christian charac
ter hn iinverl the summons '
if the parents. She wns the true help
licet, tclf sacrificing patent, and gen
erous, kindly neighbor. In IMW, Mr.
and Mrs. Nlpher removed to Topeki,
K'nnsn. Hint they might be nearer
thilr chllilien. - -
Impressive fnnciii, "ft vices weri"
held on Thursday lnt. fi.nil the lioni.',
conducted by l!i v. Mcltiide, ot tilt. M.
K, church, to which organisation slu
hail hem a member fn-ni glilhoivl,
I'.dlowlng these sei vices the Woman' i
who .ioein nil i ungs we . - . . ... ,lu,u kPn.et..
Av.1 Dellln Donley died at er
Mnny beautiful
i i ti.iT -i... - iutn ... ,i nrn o fi ring came riom niemis. nnd
ss".1"..': V till!"' rr2 iw- a
fi'illfi J!? f'" ' Uncnln Post. Sons of Vet-
Drowned Woman Identified, ,.
On Tliursday, July (1 the body of a
young lady was found flouting In the
Missouri river, close to Nodaway. Dr.
Jctfcrloi, tho Andrew county coroner.
wa notified, and held an Inquest.
Isothlng vn found on tho body that
Rave any clew. Clothe were water
noaked until there was practically no
color Just tho body of a young
woman, supposed to bo omevhcro
near J5 year old. One more unfortu
nato to be consigned to a nameless
undertaking room at Savannah, In
hopes something might develop that
would lead to Identification, and It did.
Dr. flay hvana told tho coroner to
hove her teeth examined, and tho den-
ilinti d J?.b' J' vc tncm rtc
tription of the dental work that had
been done. It wag advertised In tho
Omaha and other paper up the river.
A MIm Hoxy (Jrovc. living Mxty
mile wj.t of Omaha, had Sono to
pmaha. to buy clothes, ami wrote her
folk. Juno 2f, 1010, that when they
read tho letter she would bo In the
Missouri river. Tho authorities took
. .. 'kcr'ptlon of her mouth to her
. uiMA nn1 ho .mW " corrcponded,
with the exception of two porcolaln
lllllngs In her two upper front teoth;
!,le'. j'W' back' Bml ,)''' Kv" cx
iLcdi Vi.two tcc,,, """hed them
rr, and there wcro tho two porcelain
fillings, ostabllthlng her Identity be
yond a doubt. Tho local undertaker
came after tho remain and took her
back homo for burial. As she had al
ways lived a model life, no ono could
Imngino wlint over possessed her to
commit suicide. Had It not been for
the dental work, that was practically
Indestructible, her peoplo would never
have known what became of her.
Knterlained.
Mr. C. K. Hunker entertained at
luncheon. Wednesday afternoon of
this week, at ono o'clock to a number
of ladles. Tho tablo was handsomely
decorated with roses, butterflies anil
birds, nnd truly presented a beautiful
appearance. The out of town guests
were: Mrs. Olln Hawlcy, of Coming,
Iowa; Mrs. Elwood McDonald, of St.
Joseph, and Mrs. Emmctt Thomas and
Mrs. Ferguson, of Mound City. A
delightful time was passed by all
present.
A Cloic Call,
Ijist Prldav. the Th Inst.. ,WH)
Worlcy and wife, who uiV' In iNTCini
merchandising at Forbes, excluded to
have a cold lunch at noon, liK?M of
going home and getting a mcav and
among other thing, they ate the con
tent of a class containing dried lurf
In a counlc of hour Mr. Worlev bo-
camo sick and went Home, and a snort
timo after Mr. Worley started homo
to ice now ni wire was, ana nan no
more than cot outside the store when
ho was seized with severe cramnlnc
ami vomiting, no lain down on tne
sidewalk, in front or the store, ami
nan a convulsion, and friends liad to
carry him home. Dr. Walker wa
hurriedly called, and nronounced it
litomalno nolson. and did all he could
to relieve both Mr. and Mrs. Worley,
but Mr. Worley rapidly grew worse,
and a hurry call for Dr. Evans and
Dr. Kearney was sent to Oregon to
come and assist. After a eouplo of
hours' hard work, the Doctors were
rewarded by symptoms nf improve
ment In Mr. Worlev. but thev sav ho
didn't miss eternity by a half inch.
lie nas ueen improving ever slnco, and
is now out of danger. Mrs. Worley
ate but little of tho dried beef, but
enough to make her a mighty sick
woman lor several nour. it fcurely
was a close call.
Three Linker Install,
On Wednesday evcnlnc of last
week, July f, Pert Maple, acting for
District Deputy lialpli Meyer, install
ed tho following ofllccrs of Orcgun
l.odgc. I. u. u. 1.:
It. T. Dobyn. N. G.
Matt Ellcr, V. (J.
Selb. Carson, Secretary,
nert Maple, Treasurer.
Geo. F. Seeman, Conductor.
N. P. Moo.-e, Chnplaln.
Calls. Markt, Warden.
John T. Scott, It. S. N. G.
John T. Simmons, U S. N. G.
Don Martin, II. S. V. G.
A. McDonald, L. S. V. G.
D. Parbour, I. G.
W. H. Stewart, O. G.
UenJ. Crouser, It. S. S.
four sister and one brother survivi-
P. A.. Mrs. Paul llucher. Mrs. Irn
Ituclier. Mrs. IV try Ansclmcnt mid
Miss I. cuh.
.Miss Avn lived a most ilvnted Chris
tian life, giving her heait to God. in
l-orest (J tv. am lin i ng w t i t ic
Chrlstlun church there In 1H!U, mid It.
every wny did her part to advance her
.Master cause. Mic was do in in
Forest City. April 30. IR77. and Hunt
her entira lift In Oils section of tho
county, w nitre ill.' wa greatly bi loved
Mil '1(... Uw-
Kutii-nil servic weie held frufi tI.o
home of her mother. In this citv. July
H, and; weie conducteil by her pastor,
Kider li. ll. Dawson, or the cnrlstlan
church, the Interment being In the
German M E. ctiietery.
JpC'
" "" M)er.
Many friend will grieve nt the
iirnin oi Mtf,
Weawr,
Manv limits in Southern Holt will
Ih grieved to lent II of the death of
Miss Anita, daughter or I lev. Willis
Weaver, milch occurred nt Scaly.
uxns, Jum ... r.ili..
I'.ir unN l''.ln I'll. Utlti.i fntii.1i' llv
ed In Holt nullity, nnd piiiiclpnfly in
Foibe ti.unshlii. and the gicater noi-
tlon of tli? life of Miss Anita was
spent In thl M-ctlnn nf our (.unity,
uer mo was n neuuiuui wnrtvan one
and her going to the rc.il'iv. Wt,iu
will brlnR sadness' to muity f her
lormcr ossiiaie ncre.
She wa engaged In teaching In the
C51WI, a ir.O time or her death, und
whorcver the taught she uni greatly
beloved by puill and jiatrons and the
entire nv'tfhboilinod. Mnd nnd cnnild-
I'intO, fatld lid Isis llinrnuiih In hM
Wotk, fuO wait A lilClt liklrlnttc chlir-
tne
an
llr.it
. Al ella Atlnlt.Mf,r
uldnw nf in Int.. l!.. II V i; mil', uini iiinuu linn ihms.vii uinni
ui... i .i. i.." ,, scliool gi-ounds nt Sciun. 'lexns,
H .1 7 In Ad:': ..:!'::." 'Aiiiericnii ling, which wn the
Who died Willie I., rluinre of " '" . I'UI'IIS, nmong
nilK'H WVIV M'WIUI .tll'MrilNI. (Ill 1 1
Mivfolt t I liAi i.. tf
Q at iur home In I Slloam SiE I !n?l'.''V"!". '" '
Aikniiku. Julf II. llillt. nt th . i . "oaien in me niceze,
111 years, U months nnd 10 day. Tho
body wns brought In thl city, Where
tho funeral semciV keip conducted
from the Evnngellenl cliulth, Jul)' 0,
by the pastor, liev. W. C. Jnluisort. as
sisted by llev. M. C. Plntz, presiding
rider, nf Kansas Citv.
Adclln Adair was born InOlilo, Sep
tfmbcr 17, lhOfl. and became tho wife
of rtcv. Jl. K. Myers, March 8, 18b0,
with )vhom she moved to Missouri In
IbHO, her husband being assigned to
the ICaiiMl ronference. Fur a num.
her rtf. year ho shared with him tho
life of an itinerant minister's wife, till
hi uVath. She .wm dutiful, self
sacrificing: mother, who .will he sadly
missed fn the home by her Ji'vcil ones.
Sho leave three daughters nn,l son
to mourn their loss, all of mIium wesn
present at her laying awuy to await
.ut iKiiuiii-t:iin-.jorn. Mil' is also
survived by nm. brother, two half
brothers, two half sister nnd a fath.
er.
Tlie Interment wa jn tlm Maplo
Grovo cemetery, besid her husband.-
Nlohrr.
In our Issue last week. The Sentinel I
Mrs.
She died nfter an Illness of only
four days, death being caused by
ncuri Disease, nun ner passing wa
wholly unexpected by her father nnd
friends.
She was born In Salem, Ohio, in
1881, and her education wa obtained
ut Umhhn and Tuiklo College. Shv
taught six years In Holt county. Her
care nnd interest for tho )nung people
wi rururs, hit iicroiiuu in rnuiril
work fur them, and tlreles efforts In
matter that would Instruct, elevatu
nnd cntcitain them are well known by
the l.coi.lo of thut section.
She wa deprived of her mother,
who wu called up higher, at Scaly,
Texas, July 7, lUl'l, and she Is sur
vived by her father and sister, Mar
garita. ... '
l o . , '
lit Trouble Again
Charley Lowe, of lllgolow, U In
deep trouble again, Just becnut ha
prItiU In drawing on tho exeeheirusr
of some other fellow' without th
other fellow giving liht consent, or
Knowing unvuiin" nnout it uni t iim
check comes back.
In tho fall of lull!, Charley forged
Mary, the little cluht-ycav-old
daughter of George F. Seeman and
wife, of this city, is very sick, threat
ened with typhoid fever.
briefly mentioned tlm .I....I, ..r
I). I,. NJphcr, which occunH ut her'?fl!r.ck n blg-henrteil Uncle John C.
homo in Topeka, on Tuesda. July 4, Hi'd"'', and the result was that at the
i i-cui-imry, jnn, lerni or our circuit
Sho was Emily, daughter of ihVlato cPur. Charley was given four years In
Hcnjnmln Allen and wife, vim camo . "T I'tnltcntlury, and in March ho was
to this Immediate vicinity In IMi!, and ,?k,',n ,0 tl". penitentiary by Sheriff
located on wliat I known ns tho old (,,el,vln' 1,l'KO' serving Ids tenn.
Charley HoiTnian place. She uns born ln, ,,,'ner, mm, after having serv
'." n'fuwri county, New Voik, April I l"ni. ho wns paroled by Gov
1; and was married to David L. enior Major to I), V. Porter, of
. 'ioV- "" oi" nomo place, .lanuarv "'""" .. .
1, IRO,, lty this union four children ' 't",t,.l,ek, Undo John lllnkle dU-
Wero born In tli. uA i envered tout In, wna nirnlii nll...l minn
Itnlph, and now Mrs. Ilattle Gordon. ' reduce hi hnnk account several
hew with tho husbund unvive, and dollar?, by checks ho knew nothing
all, with tho exception of licit, wcio t,,,"ut whatever. Investigation dcvel-
Mfstni ui ner neilsldo ut the timo of T11 "d &KMn rnrged
her death, and reside In Tniu ko; licit 'd old friend Hlnklc, and
residing nt Cleveland Ohio, und coul I wt'"' I1""-1''! '' l-wc on D. P. Wilson,
not bo present. Sho is aim survived I clothier, and on the Crouso restau
by two brother, William, or Kansas rnnJ- . ,., , ,
Wty, Kunsas, und Charles, of Menu, Piosicutor Tibbels took steps at
Arkansas, Several niece and nen. i on('1"' ""d tho matter wns placed in tho
hews nlso survive, among these being ' !inmlf' of SI'Tiff Gclvln, who located
George Allen, of this citv, nnd Mrs. ,ll,m s, Joseph, whero Gelvln ar
James Hulatt, of the lllrhfiinil district. restP' ,llm lnlit Saturday, nnd ho was
and two grandchildren. . hrought to Oregon and lodged In Jail,
i?ii i N'lnc" assisted her husband , nwnit1"" 1,10 nctlon of the governor,
wnile he served as tho Janitor of our revoking hi parole, and ordering him
school for 25 years, and thus becamo 1 recommitted to the pen, to finish out
close to the children of our city, and . h,s sentence. At tho expiration of
by her, kindly and motheily nature tn,s sentence, it Is presumed, he will
won tho love and esteem of all these, answer to the latter charge of forgery
and through them the kindly regards and take his medicine.
Count) SrhiH.I Note.
Tim district clerks' trnort ate com
ing Into the nlllce. three nnd four n
dnv. All tlio-c clerk who nave no;
..t .mule out their rcpott. please do
so t.nce. nnd send tlielii to me coun
ty fcupirlntemlcnt Just n soon a posilble
The srlii.nl house at Corning Is max'
iiiR ii'lemlid headway., I he cotMtv
ii. nU ndi nt had the pleasure nf
Inukii'ir nver tho bu'titlng, which I In
nun .r election. It promise to i.e
me oi tin bst of Its sire in the ro.ni-
t
U'.i ery fnleiestliig lofiluie of tlm
"in nl.nr clinol iii.unds Is l ip '.Thool
iiinlin." It is the only ntie 1 know nf
In the rniintv. llefnii' .Mr. Clvssuhit
the principal nf the Corning school,
left for his summer scliool wmk nt
Wiirrensbillg, he laid nut ami divided
Intn plots nlmut nil neie of giuund.
i.ni'ii oi uiese puns was assigned to
tlie dirTcicnt pupils of the school, and
It-Is actually surprising to see the lino
vegetables growing their peas,
nenns, carrots, parsnips, lettuce, iim-
tslics, potatoes, enw peas, soy licanv
as wen a nnuir glowing in nio
fusion. The children are allowed to
take tlie mature vegetable home for
the family' use. Corning may well
5x- proud of her young ganlcnoi.
The rier, In cutting in. hud conic
so close to the linker scliool house,
that the school hoatd and other spent
a day, Inst week, In removing It to n
snfor place. The superintendent hope
Hint the old iiinterinl, with what new
material iiinv bo necessary, will bo
Uni to put up a small, but modern
school house.
A feu duy ago the teachers' grade
from the June examination weie re
rolvoil bv the sutieilnteiiilent from the
state department. A a general thing
tlie grade "tre better than tlmsc,
made in .Miircn. jti
Tlie superintendent spent Sntunla"
cm'i.uih in v.niiMiiiiiiicn insinct. .M.
;i. . -
An Interesting Idler wns received
irom .ills Jiabel Smltli, who I doing
summer woik at M. V.
The Heading Ciicle books for this
year'are thiev In numberl twn, h'en
ncdy' Fundamrntuls In Methods nnd
llowmnn. Ill'edl'olil. Greenfield W..I.
rick's LVsiiys for College English, for
teacher of tho grade and ruial
miioois, ami one, rnikcr' Metliml nf
meiiing in nign M'nooi, lor teach
er or high school work. It I to be
hoped that all high school teacher
In tho county will rend and add to
their professional libraries, Parker's
Method of Teaching in High Schools,
while all tho other teacheix nf tin.
fVditty will do well to add the othvr
two books to their libraries. Plan to
get these books nt the beginning of
the scliool year, so that you ulll havw
them for study during the winter,
Wo think tho Heading Circle Work
none mis pasi year wo tin Improve
ment on former years, but the super
Intcndcnr hope that every teacher In
the? county .will avail herself of tho
onoonun uv or o n nir snmn ciri,.
during the coming year, so as to get
the benefit derived from nil exchange
of idea.
AI.UERTA GliEEN-MUHPIIY,
County Superintendent.
For Lieutenant Governor.
There nro three candldntcs on the
iubl can ticket for Meuletinnf llnv.
ernor, and all are most excellent gen-
t '".n!1 """ representative citizens,
hut Tho Sentinel believes of this list
(hut Mr. W. O. Atkcson. of Butler.
Ilute countv. Is tho most ntrnllnliln
candidate, possessing excellent iiiiallll
ctlons to fill the chair nnd prosldo
IWrtf ,lin .Inlll lf .1 ' ... .
.iv-iiin-iuiiuiin iu 1110 MniC
mine.
Ho ha filled mnnv imrtn nt ini
and honor. Ho is a graduate of Fair-
iiuiiiu, Virginia, woiicgo, and had the
good of his party nt heart to make
tho rnco.for Congress in 18U0, against
Hon. David Do Armond, only to go
down in defeat under the bmstlv
i omnn!?Vc maJrity of that district.
In 1008 ho nirnln inmln II...
Congress, only to go down to dofcat,
ns before. He served as prosecuting
attorney of Ilatcs county, 1890-92, and
his record was an able one, and clean
In his conduct of the office.
no nono our Menubllcsn frlnndo ,.
upport Mr. Atkeson. We believe in
uiiii.
Judges of Election.
The countv court at Its sesilnn.
Monday of this week, selected tho
following to act an Judges at tho pri
mary election to bo held Tuesday,
August 1, 101C:
llfcelnw l.etiuli cans! Itobt. Ilrown.
T. T. Wilson..!. W. White; Democrats:
Guy Jones, John Coughlin, II. P. Mc-
le.
North llcnton Itcnubllcans: Henry
Armack, lluck Comer, Jcsso Porter;
uemocrntsi nootiy rostni, Jns. w.
.tiucneii, o, i.ower, jr.
Nmtli llcnton lleim . cans: chas.
Ilond, Cliarles Dnzler, A. O. Swopc;
HemocrntM: r. . nndeventer, J, 1.
iiniiarn, jonn iinnnn.
tiny l!epublicnn: I. A. hidings,
A. Meadows. W. II. Hulatt! llrmn.
crats! C. T. Graves, I'nil Deltoid, W.
G. Southwell.
I oihes Urmililicans: Wm. Mahon.
Geo. Gore, A. U Pullcn; Deinocintn:
w. II, spntks, Uhel Hanks, Albeit
.Monenson.
I orest Kenulillcnns! A. f!. Wrlmr.
Wm. Fitzmntirirc, A. J. l.lmpp: Dcm
wints! Daniel Hoover, I.. P. Watsoi,
ii. ii. l.ong.
Hickory liepubllcnnsi Adam Yet
ter, Alf. h'unkel. T. A. Callow; pern
wrnts! I.ogan Meyer, Claud Lemons,
Jcsfo Cain.
Lewis llepubllcans: Wm. Pen
nel, Jo'liua Adolph, Paul lluche'i
DcmocinU: J. 1!. Peachcr, Snm David
son, David Harbour.
W. Lewis Hepul.llrans! Daniel
'.aenmnn, unnici nurricr. i'lill Schlotj.
Imuer; Democints: Chas. Cuwan, YA
Iveown, A. H. c.reene.
I.lliertv Ilrpul.llcnns! Elmer I. id v.
Isaac Painter, Al. Wehrli; Democrats:
Everett Mann, C. II. Denrmnnt, Alvln
Nnuiiinn. - a i
Lincoln l!i'tiidillr.in rim, i:ir.
m y, Geo. llentorf, Chas. K. Danker!
Pemocintsi Jnme S. Jlavlty, Coil
oltmer, Hay Drowning.
.'union i.'epui.llcans: Gen. Lease,
Iniiie Slnrlnlr, Tho. Hunker! Hfim,.
crntsH, M. Mlnton, A. W, YnnCnmp,
. i. ..iii.unir.
Noi'nwny llepubllrnn! Chn. F.
Ilnitiivker, James Mdlngs, John Peu-
eibcher: Democrats: Tom I". Dcrr,
lit nirpnrnsnn, Jonn MintlKS.
N. I'nlon lleiml.llcniis: Asn Tur
pin. Geo. Gasklll. Christ l.nurrnre;
Deiturnt: A. (). Shaip, Chorley
Judy, William Dovell. '
S. Union Hepubllrnns: Geo. Von
derschmldl. N. D. Merrill. E. N. Doeb
bellng; DemiK'rnt: David Yount, W.
J. Itnndall, Andy liner, , r"T
5- -x's.-
Meeting of Medical Society.
The Holt County Medical Sorctv
met at the court house, in Oreron.
July 0, with the following member in
uttendnnce: Doctor Davis, of Craig;
Perry; Qulgley, Hoy Miller and J. M.
Traev, of Mound City: llogan. of
IllgrTiiw; Ilullitck miifkMcClannahati,
of Forest City: Woo,l,X:iinndler, llo
gan, Kearney, Thatcher and Evans, of
Oregon.
After the regulnr order of business
was finished the scientific part of tho
program was taken up.
Dr. Chandler read n paper on "Par
oxysmnl Tachycardia;" Dr. rtullock
delivered tin nddiess on "Infection of
Cervix Uteil," nnd Dr. Jacob Gelger.
of St. Joseph, read a paper on "Spinal
Injuries." mi: gt-
I lie sid.Jects. V..lt) taJ;cirtiii In regV
ulnr order ami t!:6roughly tllscusseil.
The next meeting nf tho society
wi" ham Forest City, the first Thur.
day In October.
o -
To Leae I's. i
It I with keen regret that we learn
si the Intendod detmitule fiom our
county nf Mr. and Mrs. H. C, Ilrown
lee, of Fortcscuc. Mr. Hrownlce wa
Instrumental in establishing the Hank
of Fortcscuc. In June, 1014, and has
been Its cashier since that time.
Last week, Mr. Urownlee disposed
of Ids stock to Georgo W. Poynter,
of the Hank of lllgclow, and hi broth
er. Dirk, and we presume the latter
will become cashier.
We understand that Mr. Hrnwnlee
nnd wife contemplate removing to tho
fnr East, but wherever their lot may
be enst, may it ever be In the pasture
green. . --...-.
The Poynler need no Introduction
at our hand born bankers, they will
he an Important acquisition to the
commercial and business Interests of
Fortcscuc,
-o- '
Hack VtM T, !
George I.ukens, real estate dealer
of this city, returned Monday of thl
week from the Lower Illo Grando
country In Texas tlie Mission coun
try where he went with a bunch of
prospectors. Ho report evers thing
nourishing In thut country, and crop
H ..-..ilia never lienor, no mndo a
brief visit at Corpus Christ!. This U
lf.ll or 200 miles from tho Mission
country, nnd It Is very dry there,
not having any rain in and around
that immcdlato vicinity for several
months, but ns the country Is wonder
fully recupciatlvc. a mln within n few
weeks, will ennblo them to raise a
good crop by late fall or (list of tho
year. They can ralso nnd mature two
torn crops in ono year in thut section.
He brought back ns lino nn ear of corn
u cun bo grown anywhere.
An Enjoyable Call.
Hobcrt Austin, of McCook, Nebras
ka, find his littlo son, Hobcrt, Jr.,
spent Wednesday here, visiting his
i.nclo nnd aunt, Hobert Montgomery
nnd wife, of this city. Mr. Austin is
on tho road for tho Richardson Dry
Goods Co., of St. Joseph, and has been
with this old firm for the post twenty
years, his territory being In Nebras
ka and parts of Colorado, and he re
porta his trade as being very satis
factory, and crop conditions are very
promising, with a splendid wheat
harvest at IU clow. , !
