THE BARRE DAILY TIMES
VOL. XX NO. 102.
UAHKK, VERMONT, FRIDAY, JULY 11, 1910.
THICK. OXE CKXT.
THREE
AND
TOWNS
TRONES
WOOD TAKEN
British Started Second Phase of Their
Drive at Dawn To-day and Captured
Longeval, Bazentin and Le Grade,
Making Important Advance for the
Allies' Line
ZEPPELIN COMING OVER.
BIG INCREASE .
IN DEATHS
ALL WERE STRONGLY
DEFENDED POINTS
Advance Covered a Front of Four
Miles and the Heavy Fighting Con
tinues, According to the British Offi
cial Statement French .Check Ger
man Attacks
And Also in New Cases of
Infantile Paralysis
in New York
31 DEATHS OCCUR
IN GREATER CITY
Hours 162 New Cases
Were Reported
London, July 14. British troops at dawn to-day broke into Ger
man positions on a four-mile front in the region north of the
Somme and captured several strongly defended localities, says the
official statement of the war office. The attack was delivered on
the second system of the German defenses, says the statement,
which adds that heavy fighting continues.
A despatch to the Reuter Telegram company says that the Brit
ish captured Longeval, Bazentin, LeGrade and the Trones wood.
The news of the British latest success has given added weight to
the request of the government to the workmen to forego the Au
gust holidays in order that the army may be kept well supplied
with munitions. The supplies already on hand must be greater
than generally believed, else General Haig would not have been
able to continue the offensive without intermissions.
The British advance reported in to-day's despatches apparently
constitutes the second phase of the great Anglo-French offensive
in the neighborhood of the Somme river, which began on July 1.
FRENCH CHECKED
TWO ATTACKS
NORTH OF AISNE
Germans Made Two Attempts to Storm
French Positions South of Ville au
Bois Artillery Fighting Be
fore Souville Continues.
Paris, July 14. The Germans made
two attempts last night to storm French
positions north of the Aisne, at a point
south of Ville au Bois, but were checked
by the French machine gun lire, the war
office announces. On the Verdun front
artillery fighting continues in the Sou
ville sector. There were patrol engage
ments in Chenois wood, but no important
developments on the remainder of the
front.
tria-Hungary has met with crushing da
feat and there is a strong feeling in
influential quarters that if Austria again
throws out feelers for a separate peace
uiey snouia De welcomed by the allies
Moreover, for ,the first time in the
war, Germany is being hard pressed and
this gives rise to the feeling that the
entente allies must immediately Uy
flown lines upon which they will agree-
as a Dasis tor discussion of peace terms,
GERMANS REPORT BATTLE.
Germans rian to Give Americans An
other Surprise.
Baltimore, July 11. Count Von llerns
torn", the German ambassador, spent an
hour aboard tho German submarine
merchant mail Deutschland yesterday. Hu
inspected tho vessel from stem to stem,
had the intricate machinery and iiihtui
utentft aboard explained to him and personally-
congratulated Captain Koenig
upon bringing his vessel antely to Amer
ica through waters infested with hostile j
wir cratt.
Two attaches of the German embassy
the German ami American consuls in
Baltimore and Major 1'reston accompa
nied the ambassador on Ins visit to tloj
submarine. Tho intense boat inside tlie
hull of the vessel, generated by sun rajs
beating upon the deck and sides prevent
ed the party from remaining aboard
i . t . i
longer limn an nour. I A J T U C 0 ,1
Tho ambassador informed Captain I And J.Airin trie bame - i
Koenlg that he would send to him be
fore the Dcutschlund starts on her ie-
turn voyago several packages of oflicial
papers winch he desires to have de
livered intact to the Berlin foreign of
fice. Some of these documents embassy
officials have been reluctant to trust in
the regular mails liecausc it was consid
ered likely they would fall into the liamis
of British censors.
The ambassador was enthusiastic as
he emerged from the conning tower of
tho Deutschland.
"It is a wonderful boat and with as
courageous a crew as ever sailed the sea
has made a wonderful voyage," said he.
"I climbed up and down every hatchway,
looked into every compartment and had
my first experience with a periscope.
"Captain Koenig did not tell me just
when ho expects to leave for Germany
but I presume it will be soon after he
has his return cargo aboard. He is in
complete charge of the vessel and hu
his orders from Berlin. His craft is a
private one; just as much so as any
North German Lloyd liner. My visit
here was entirely unofficial."
The ambassador arrived in Baltimore
yesterday afternoon from New York.
Prior to visiting the submarine he at
tended a luncheon at the German club,'
IS ENTITLED
TO PRIVILEGES
The SubmersibleDeutschland
May Clear and Depart
When She Desires
ADVISORY REPORT
IS SUBMITTED
LYNDONVILE MAN PRESIDENT.
M. E.
.ew Horn, July u. a marked in
crease both in the number of new cases
and deaths in the past 24 hours was
; shown to-day in the report on the iu
inutile paralysis situation. During the
'J4 hours there were ltl.' new cases and 31
deaths in the greater city.
NO NEED FOR ALARM.
given in honor of Captain Koenig. Last
night he was present at a dinner given
by Mayor Preston to the commander of
the submarine. He made reservations
on a late train tor New York.
City officials who visited the submarine
yesterday quoted Captain Koenig as say
ing that Zeppelin airship freighters rc
being built in Germany for trans-At-
lantin service.
"To you," Captain Koenig was quoted
as saying, the trip of the Deutschland
is a great achievement. You mustn't bo
too enthusiastic over it for a bigger sur
prise is coming. A great Zeppelin air
ship, or maybe I should say airships are
being built in Germany. In the not dis
tant future one or more of them will
sail through the air to the United Mates-.
Just as sure as tho Deutschland came
to America, so will the Zeppelins come "
NO MEN WITHDRAWN
FROM VERDUN TO
SOMME FRONT
Official Report Calls It Violent Engage
ment.
T, 1 1 ' 1 ,
neriui, Dy wireless, JUIV 14. A new
and violent battle is being fought on
both sides of the river Somme this morn
ing, says to-day's official statement.
SEES TURN OF TIDE.
German News Agency Declares Also That
Not a Single Gun Has Been Taken
to Meet Anglo-French
Drive.
Berlin, via wireless, July 14. The of
fensive by the entente allies on the
western front has not caused the with
drawal by the Germans of a single man
or a single gun from fhe Verdun front,
where the attack on the French fortress
is being consistently and successfully
pressed, says a statement to-day by the
Overseas News agency.
LESS VIOLENT ON EAST FRONT.
There Seems to Be Temporary Check to
Russian Offensive.
London, July 14. The most violent
fighting in the great allied offensive is
on the eastern front where General Brus-
siloff's tremendous blows are being con
tinued without apparent lull or hesita
tion. Temporarily, at least, the Au.-tro-Germans
appear to have halted the
KiiHsian advance along the Stokhod. Both
sides are reported to be hurling huge re
inforcements of men and guns into this
titanic struggle, the price of which is the
immensely important-strategic town of
Kovel.
Further to the south a battle of almost
equal intensity is raging on the lower
Strips where the Russians are striking
north in an effort to crush1 General on
Bothmer and flank the entire Austro
German line.
The Austrian admit that the Rus
sians penetrated Von Bothmer's froi.t
st some points, but assert they were
driven out again in counter attacks. The
Russians claim to have taken 2,000 pris
oners, but make no mention of a gain
pf territory.
David Lloyd-George Says Allies Have
Wrested Offensive from Germans.
London, July 14. David Lloyd-George.
rrmsn minister ot war, presiding yes
terday at an allied conference on equip
ment, declared that the combined offen
sive of the allies had wrenched the
initiative from the Germans, never, he
trusted, to return.
"We have crossed the watershed," he
said, "and now victory is beginning to
flow in our direction. This change is due
to the improvement in our equipment."
The conference was held at the war
office and was participated in by Albert
Thomas, Frenoh minister of munitions;
General BellaofT, assistant minister of
war of Russia; General A. Dall 'Olio,
members of the Italian ministry of war.
and the new British minister of muni
tions, Edwin S. Montagu.
MADRID IS IN A
STATE OF SIEGE
FOLLOWING STRIKE
SOLDIERS RAIDED STORES.
Cleveland Police Were Called and Troops
Were Driven Back to Train.
Cleveland, O., July 14. Seven hundred
militia from eastern atates, passing
through Cleveland over the Nickel Plato
railroad, left the train yesterday after
noon when it stopped at the Broadway
East Ninth street depot and proceeded
to raid nearby stores and commission
houses, taking food and merchandise and
destroying what they did not carry
away.
Riot calls were turned in and squa la
of patrolmen were sent to the scene in
police emergency patrols.
The soldiers were driven back to the
train by a squad of 20 armed men or
dered out by Mayor T. J. Moynahan,
commanding the train. Some of the sol
diers said they had not eaten in .iu
hours. The troops belonged to the 6'Jth,
7th, 14th 12th and 23d New iork in
fantry, all from t he metropolis and
Troop G from Utica, N. Y.
Over Outbreak of Infantile Paralysis,
Says Dr. Flexner.
New York, July 14. Leaders in tin
medical profession, public health experts
from many cities, philanthropists ami
charity workers thronged the rooms or
the Academy of Medicine here last night
to attend u nm meeting tor the dis
cussion of infantile paralysis.
Those who hoped that a cure for tho
disease would be heralded or that isola
tion of its deadly germ would be an
nounced were disappointed. Dr. Simon
Flexner of the Rw ket'eller institute for
'medical research and other experts told
of the progress made by medical science
iu combating the disease but they had
no epoch making discoveries to proclaim.
Dr. Flexner, who has devoted his own
skill and the resources of the Rockefeller
institute to tho battle against the dis
ease, declared, however, that there is
no occasion for panic. He asserted that
the death rate from infantile, paralysis
is lower even than from other maladies
considered far less serious. He had a
message of cheer for anxious parents in
the announcement that In a large per
centage of cases there are complete re
coveries. Dr. Henry Koplik who spoke on the
'clinical types of the disease," deelartd
every thing known to modern science i
being done m this city to stay the epi
dcmic.
Artificial respiration was suggested by
Dr. Ixiuis (.'. Ager as one method of
treatment. He said it was possible con
siderable might be accomplished in that
way.
Dr. Haven Emerson, health commis
sioner of this city, told what is being
done to light the epidemic and asserted
the widespread alarm which parents fed
is not justified. He pointed out that out
of 2,BHl suspected cases investigated
only 1,640 true cases of infantile paral
ysis had been found, of which 308 re
sulted fatally.
The State Department Will
Make No Formal Announcement
Washington, D. C, July 14. The ad
visory report of the status of the German
submarine Deutschland, which was sub
mitted to Acting Si-cretary Polk to-day
by the government neutrality board, ia
understood to hold that the vessel is
peaceful merchant craft and entitled to
all the privileges as such.
The indications now are that the state
department will make no formal an
nouncement concerning the submarine,
but that the treasury department will be
advised to permit her to clear and sail
from Baltimore whenever the captain
desires to start on his return voyage to
Germany.
Assistant Secretary Polk received the
neutrality board's report just before the
cabinet meeting.. The board gave its ad
vice after considering the reports of the
navy and customs officer, w-ho made a
complete examination of the Deutschland
and concluded that it was not only un
armed but could not be converted for war
purposes without extensive structural
changes.
DATE OF CLEARANCE
STILL 'UNKNOWN
WELCOMED AT WHITE HOUSE.
DROWNED IN QUARRY HOLE.
Spanish City and Province So Declared
on Account of the Walkout By
Railway Employes.
Paris, July 14. The city and province
of Madrid were yesterday declared by
the government in a efcate of siege on
account of the strike of railway em
ployes, according to a Havas despatch
from the Spanish capital.
Joseph Levowich Went Into Deep Water
in Quincy.
Quincy, Mass., July 14. Joseph Levo
wich was drowned yesterday in Wendell's
ledge, an abandoned quarry hole, which
is filled wifh water and in some places
is 100 or more feet deep. Levowich was
visiting Frank Coffman of 148 East How
ard street and with other young men
went swimming iu the quarry hole. The
water, fed by springs, is very cold, anu
levowich sank shortly after he had g"t
into deep water, although ho was only
short distance from the shore.
The police worked all day with grap-1
pling irons unsuccessfully. They gave up
the job for the night abut 6 o clock,
when some men under Patrick H. Brad
ley, chief of the Fore River shipyard
constables, took up. the search. About
7 o'clock they brought the body to the
surface. It was claimed by relatives.
Six Seamen from Deutschland Also Went
to Navy Department.
Washington, D. C, July 14. Six sea
men from the German submarine mcr
chantruan Deutschland came over from
Baltimore yesterday and were enter
tained at the White House and the navy
department. A White House attache
showed them through the east, blue and
red rooms, the cabinet room and Presi
dent Wilson's private office.
One of the youngsters asked permis
sion to sit in the the president's chair
at the head of the cabinet table, and
he did it while his comrades grinned ap
preciation. All were much interested 'U
the war maps showing the positions of
the armies in Europe, and they pointed
out with priie to the names of their
home towns in Germany.
At the navy department Assistant Sec
retary Roosevelt received the visitors
and congratulated them in German upon
their voyage. They inspected historic
naval relics in Secretary Daniels' of
fice, including the flag of the ill-faG'd
American submarine 5, which sank with
21 men.
Deutschland Remains Tied to Her Pier
in Such a Position as to Enable Her
to Get Away Quickly.
Baltimore, Md., July 14. Silence con
tinues as to the probable date of the
departure of the supersubmarine
Deutschland. The tug Timmins, which
met her off the. capes, remains fastened
at the pier night and day in such a
position that it would probably take but
ten minutes to get the submarine into
open water. It was learned to-day that
there ia a big hydroaeroplane stored on
the pier, and it is intimated that it may
lie sent to the capes for scouting pur
poses before the submarine makes its
dash.
TALK OF THE TOWN
T. R. DROPS ARMY PLAN
Because War
FARMER WAS KILLED
THINK AUSTRIA WANTS PEACE.
Petrograd People Thus Interpret Move
ment of Minister.
London, July 14. The departure from
I'etrograd of the entire Russian council
of minister on their way to imperial
field headquarter has been the eause of
much speculation in the Russian capi
tal, according to new dispatcher arriv
ing here from Petrograd. Popular opin
ion ascribes the present council it the
situation of Austria.
For the second time in the war Aus-i
KAISER AND KRON-
PRINZ SUNK IN ,
JUTLAND FIGHT
Positive Proof Has Been Found That
Two German Dreadnoughts Were
Sunk, Says British Em
bassy. Washington, July HAn admiralty
cablegram to the British embassy here
say positive proof haa been found that
the two great German dreadnoughts
Kaiser and Kxonprini were sunk by tor
pedoes daring the battle of Jutland and
that they now have been added to the
official British list of German ships de
stroyed.
The Kaiser was of 24.700 tons displace
ment and carried 10 12-iorh, 50 calibre
guna. The Kron print carried 10 12 inch,
45 calibre guns. She displaced 25.575
ton.
And Much Damage Was Done By Storm
in Connecticut.
New Haven, Conn., July 14. Connecti
cut was visited late yesterday by an
electrical storm of unusual intensity, ac
companied by a heavy downpour of rain
and in some localities hall.
Arthur Munson, a young farmer, was
struck down and killed by lightning at
New Britain, and Thomas Hickey of
South Manchester wsa so badly shocked
by lightning there that his recovery is
considered by the physicians as very
doubtful.
Reports from all over the state brought
stories of telegraph, telephone and trol
ley wires down, trolley service held up, j
trees uprooted, houses unroofed and more
or less other damage
growing belt it was said the losses were
enormous.
Now Seems
likely.
to Be TJn-
New York, July 14. Colonel Theodore
Roosevelt has abandoned for the present
at hast his plan to raise a division of
volunteer troops, according to- an an
nouncement by R. H. Post, former gov
ernor of Porto Rico, who has had charge
of recruiting. Mr. Post said the plan
had been dropped, as war now seems
unlikely.
TALK OF THE TOWN
Mrs. Arthur Backus has returned to
Bert Townsend of Plainfield was in the
city ' yesterday as a business visitor.
Mrs. A. E. Weston of Rutland is visit
ing Miss M. E. Scott at the nurses' home.
A. J. Knapp of Des Moines, Ia., a for
mer resident of Barre, is visiting in the
city for a few days.
Miss Georgia Annis of Albany, X. Y.,
is visiting at the home of her parents,
Mr. and Mrs. George Annis of Church
street.
Loren Allen and Stuart Carson have
returned from Warren, East Warren and
Waitsfleld, where they have been spend
ing their vacation.
Mrs. Elvira Cook of staple avenue, who
fell down the cellar stairs and struck her
head against the cellar floor last week.
causing abrasions about the face ana
scalp, is improving as rapidly as can be
expected.
Grover Caven of Mount street, who ha
been employed in the Straiton stoneshed
as a derrickman, left yesterday forNew
Haven, Conn., where he has secured em
ployment in the Winchester Repeating
Arms Co. shops.
County Agent F. It. Abbott left this
afternoon for Burlington, where he will
attend the conference on Vermont's rur
al problems, to be held in connection
with the summer school for teachers and
he district superintendents' meeting in
Williams Science hall at the university
of Vermont.
Several coal delivery wagon of ap
proved type have been added to the Cal
der & Richardson service recently. Un
der slots calculated to facilitate the re
moval of coal from the wagons have been
attached to the wagoi, box and other da
vices are designed to expedite the hand
ling of coal. The wagons were made at
the Pacquet shop on Summer street.
For R. W. Hall of West Topsham, his
father, George R. Hall, a lumber manu
facturer, appeared before Magistrate H.
W. Scott in city court this morning and
pleaded guilty to a charge of operating
an automobile without lights in Barre on
the night of June 2fi. A fine of $3 and
costs of $6.05 was paid by the father of
the boy. Prosecution of the younger
Hall was made on a complaint received
bv Grand Juror William Wishart.
forenoon John I.
Daniells Heads Union School Su
perintendents.
Burlington, July 14. The union school
superintendents of Vermont yesterday
elected the following officers:
Martin K. Daniells of l.yndonville,
president, to succeed E. A. Hamilton of
Newport) Herbert I). Casey, vice-presi
dent, to succeed Mr. Daniells; and'Wil-
1 ia id C. McGinnis, secretary-treasurer, in
place of Mr. Casey. A single ballot was
cast for each man in turn by the secretary.
The following resolutions on the pant
and present commissioner were passed:
We, the school superintendents of the
state of Vermont, in conference assem
bled, do hereby express our deep sense
of obligation to former Commissioner
Stone for his long and able service to
the cause of education in Vermont; for
his good comradeship and for his friend
ship. We believe Vermont w ill long con
tinue to feel the effect of his administra
tion. "We gladly welcome Dr. Milo B. Hil
legas as the new commissioner of edu
cation and we pledge to him our undi
vided, loyal, enthusiastic, support. We
believe that he will give the state au
able and safely progressive administra
tion. We are open minded and sympa
thetically receptive as to his policies and
as to his supervision of school work. Wo
confidently expect great improvement
in the schools and in education stand
ards. "We strongly approve of the policy
of offering inducements to teachers '.o
improve themselves professionally as set
forth in tho new regulations concerning
certification promulgated by the commis
sioner and the state board of education.
"We are in favor of a teachers' pen
sion system that is based upon the con
tributory principle and is worked out
on a scientific acturial basis.
To the University of Vermont and
its officers and to the public press we
express our sincere appreciation anu
thanks for courtesies extended.
"Arthur W. Eddy,
"G. J. Seager,
"Merritt D. Chittenden."
A letter to former President Hamilton
of the association from former Commis
sioner Mason S. Stone was applauded
warmly. Mr. Stone wrote among other
things: "Through you as president of
the superintendents' conferenc e, I desire
to express to the member my simplu
thanks for the superb and highly appre
ciated gift presented to me by a delega
tion of superintendents on July 1, in rec
ognition of my long service as head of
the public school system of the state.
I cannot express my surprise, my pleas
ure, or my gratitude; therefore, shall
not try. lour acquaintance with nie can
best determine the measure I feel. How
ever, allow me to state that among all
mv personal effects, there is nothing that
I shall cherish so much or prize so nigh
ly as the elegant loving cup which is so
expressive of yourselves.
"I have jiever had such delightful as
sociations as I have had with you le!
lows who are the veritable makers of a
Greater Vermont, and I send you here
with my sincere good wishes for a pleas
ant and profitable conference and for
that large success which, you so truly
desire and richly deserve.
"Most gratefully and cordially,
"Mason S, Stone."
Mr. Stone has been at Banff, Alberta,
Can. In a personal letter. to Mr. Humil
ton, he says that since leaving Vermont
he hasn t seen an item, of news of the
United States except the death of Hetty
Green. The "greatest projecting crags of
the broken crust about Banff "make me
feel as if the roof of the world had fallen
in." He sends his personal regards to
the superintendents.
For Junior High School.
"Within six or seven years," said
Commissioner Hillegas in his afternoon
talk, "there will be a considerable num
ber of junior high schools in this state."
At the same time Dr. Hillegas advised
the superintendents who heard him to
go slow with the change. He wished tj
introduce the improvement into six or
seven schools, so that a body of experi
ence might be provided, before extend
ing it to the public school system of
the state generally.
BRANDISHED
A REVOLVER
Also Fired Two Shots, After
Which He Was Put Un
der Restraint
QUARRYMAN C oED
MUCH UVN!SINESS
Joseph Marshall Was Com
mitted to State In
sane Asylum
FIVE-MINUTE "CLOUDBURST"
Did Considerable Damage About Bellows
Falls.
Bellows Falls, July 14. Preceded and
accompanied by a heavy wind, a cloud
burst did much damage yesterday after
noon, it lasted about live minutes, start.
inir at 2:40 o'clock. George F. Exner of
Rockingham street, a government observ
er, reported that half an inch of rain
fell.
Handsome shade trees were damaged,
a large maple in front of H. D. Ryder's
residence on Atkinson street, being blown
down. Since the National Guard was
called out many flags have been flying in
town and many of these t-re torn to
ribbons.
Over the telephone farmers have re
ported great damage to the corn crop,
which was already late liecause of the
backward spring. Plant- in market gar
dens were laid flat and the country raids
were badly damaged.
The cloudburst came with hardly any
warning and a large number of automo
Because he had caused no slight alarm
in the quarry district by brandishing a
revolver and acting strangely, Joseph
Marshall, a quarrymaii of Websterville,
was taken into custody yesterday after
noon, after he had fired two shots from
the revolver, and last night was pro
nounced insane, being then tken to th
state insane asylum at Waterbury. Ha
was employed at the quarry of Bo'utwell,
Milne 4 Varnum.
For some day the man had been giv-
ing uneasiness to many people by carry
ing a revolver, but it was not until h
went to the postoffice with the weapon in
his hand and demanded his mail yester
day afternoon that the authorities re
solved to put him under restraint. Miss
Mamie O'Hagan, the young lady in charge,
of the postofTiee at the time, was, of
course, considerably alarmed whpn tho
fellow put in his appearance. From tho
postofTiee the man went to a ball gsnrh
and after staying a time began to cele.
brate by shooting the revolver, firing two
shots. He was trailed to the shack on
the old Scott quarry, where he had been
living alone of late, and was placed under
arrest by Deputy Sheriff Dennis Dona
hue.
Marshall was then taken to the lockup
in East Barre, where Drs. N. E. A very
and E. H. Bailey were called to make an
examination of the fellow's mental condi
tion. They reported that he seemed to
be rational on some subject" but would,
wander off into a delusion that he was
being persecuted. On the physicians' rec
ommendation, the man was taken to thn
state hospital, being accompanied there
last night by Deputy Donshue and Con
stable James Cummings.
Marshall came to the quarry region
last spring but prior to that time had
worked in various granite centers
throughout New England. He originally
came from Canada. He is unmarried and,
as already stated, has been living alone
lately.
DRANK FLY POISON.
Four-Year-Old Youngster May Not Re
cover. Rochester, July 14. Four-year-old
Kenneth Fassett yesterday swallowed a,
quantity of fly poison containing arsenic,
and physicians announced that his re
covery was doubtful. Kenneth is tho
eldest of three children of Mr. and Mrs.
voiney fassett. He was plavmg about
the house alone, the mother of the fam
ily being confined to her bed with a.
three davs' old infant.
She was not informed of the accident.
it being feared that the shock might
lave fatal results. Shortly after he had
taken the liquid the boy became violent
ly ill. Physicians were called, but it
was some time before the nature of tho
illness was discovered and his condition
was considered vcrv serious.
FELL 50 FEET.
bile parties reached town thoroughly
This I drenched, the drivers not ha vine had time
Rogers of Barre made j to put up the tops. Telegraph comnnr
seriously impaired.
Actor Said He Intended to Cool Off; Ha
May Die.
Burlington, July 14. One of the acts
ttributed to the intense heat of tho
past few .days is the jumping or falling
of Frank Garfield, a vaudeville artist
rom Boston, into the .Ausable river in
Plattsbtirg. Garfield, after playing in
Burlington, went to Plattsburg, he said,
to try to cool off. He was evidently suf
fering intensely from the heat, and when
on the bridge was suddenly seen to fall or
jump the railing.
He received a broken leg in the fall of
50 feet and is believed to have received
fatal internal injuries, as he is still un
conscious. Witnesses say that his act)
was a deliberate attempt at suicide, but
friends sny that the heat made him
dizzy, so that he fell. His wife, in Bos
ton, has been telegraphed regarding hU
condition.
TALK OF THE TOWN
Stanbrido-e East, having been called here ! answer to a complaint charging him with nicstion was
bv the sickness ot her brother, J. U. exceeding me speea limit, a me young
man wished to confer with his father,
the case was continued until to-morrow
morning. It is alleged by the authorities ' - . .v..,.,,-, pi-.nerf Ruittv
. va ,t ... v..i... . - j
' m . . .
Beckley of Essex Street.
Mr. "and Mrs. lienry Hull, who have
been visiting friends on Granite street
for several days, returned this forenoon
to their home' in Burlington.
Mrs. W. .A. Clark and son, Cajspsr, re
turned to their home on Washington
SENT TO STATE PRISON.
to
Criminal Assault.
,T. E. Rice of Xorthfield was in the city
yesterday.
Mrs. (Jeorge Edwards of Williamstown
was in the citv this forenoon on business.
Mr. and Mrs. Fred Dike of Xorthfield
were business visitors in the city yester
day.
Rev. B. G.-Lipsky and family left on
the noon train for Basin Harbor, where
they will spend a few weeks in camp.
Frank (Jauld, who has been employed
in the stonesheds in and around Barre,
left on the noon train for Concord, X. H.,
where he has secured employment in tho
stone industry.
The Barre Hospital Aid association
held a special meeting last evening
on the balcony of the hospital, which
was verv enjoyable. There was a good
attendance and much interest was .hnwn
LIGHTNING KILLED CADDY
and Prayed.
New York, July 14. More thaa a score
of society women, including Mrs. Oscar
Lewiaohn. formerly tdna -May, the act
ress, narrowly escaped death from light
ning on the grounds ot a golf club at
Great Neck, Long Island, late yesterday,
when Feli jacobus, a caddy, was struck
and Instantly killed within a few feet of
them. As the body of the caddy was
carried from the Held, all the women in
the party fell upon their knees and
frayed.
that Rogers and Rov McDonald, now
Boston, put their cars to a test of speed
on North Main street July 7. Burlington. July 14. Ca-per Ashen-
George W. Goodrich of Dixon, III., who felter was brought into city court yes-
fctrnet amt vpninc after vlnitincr her inn. ! urnkaMv ttt trf t,rM.v. r man 'tarrlnv afternoon, charced W'ith crimi-
In the tobacco i t1arenre clar!t in Conord, X. H., for a j to enlist from Barre in the war between ;nal assault. He a-ked that an informs- in the plan of work laid out for the
few days. jtne states, is renewing acquaintances m,tion he men againm mm, m wnicn nc; coming year. inruu;:ii no- hht m
Four panels photographed frrai the: the ,-ity and vicinity. Today he was pleaded guilty, and was sentenced to, the matron, light refreshments were
servea.
Last Friday evening District Deputy
Eva lianible and Elnors Faulkner, acting
conductor of liranite City lodge. Odd La
dies, went to Graniteville and installed
the officers of Victor lodge. There was a
large delegation of Birre 'adles present. ,
Re :'re.':ments were served and all had '
good time.
New York. July 14. With no imme-J News was received this morning by
diafe relief in sight, according to Fore- Mr. .bine Bon ell. who i riittng her
k -a nr... v.i i t. tv. i for July
rtUU uv,r.jr c j r- ll W fr Tl. CV,.i.
Robert Burns memorial on the Spanieling eseorted about town bv a number of his not less than three years and nine
high school grounds are pictured on the: old friends in R. B. Crandall post. No. 56. (months nor more than five years at
back cover of the granite cutters' journal j Mr. Goodrich as a member of I) com- Windsor.
pany. 2d regiment of ermont volunteers. ;
Several Barre men enlisted for 3f days j SEVEN VICTIMS OF HEAT,
at the outbreak of the war, when it was
ers attending the conclave in Buffalo.
N. V.. refer to weather conditions suit
able for the outdoor features of the gath
Score of Prostrations
5e York Hottest Day of Year.
in ;
thought that the rebellion would bej5iore Than a
quelled wunm a snort rime, but there
enng. 1 he narre delegation expects to was a siemer term in store for thoe
return to Vermont early in the coming; who responded in the next enlistment,
week. i Nine Barre bovs went out in the 2J regi-
Miss Luna Lenngs of Cincinnati, 0..:ment and eight of them survived the, raster Scsrr. and with seven desth and .daughter. Mrs. Krneft t'uteiun ot Avers
daughter of the late Will Levings, for-! trtree-yefr enlistment. A number tf more than a score of pro trt 1071 re-'treet. that her son. Albert Rowell. was
merly of Williamstown. is visiting at the them migrated wet after the war and ' ported in the Imt 24 hours, yesterday :ki!!e.t lnt exening in an accident at Ha
home of her cousin. Mis Nellie Perrin. i for the most part Mr. tioodrich ha been wss the hottest day thus far thi year, j verlii'l. Ms. Tlie cense of the avident
This is Mis Leiings' first visit since ' a re'ident of Illinois since receiving his ; The temperature was !'. Mreet tlier-"ns not given over the wire. Mrs. Row
leaving Vermont with her parents in honorable discharge. He visited in Barre ' mometera registered above 10 in mscy !ell. together i!h Mr. and Mrs. Hutchina,
jgsl. nine years ago. instances. " Mt on the noon train for Haverhill.
t
