imjlW MEXICO STATE RECORD
$1.50 A YEAR.
SANTA FE NEW MEXICO, FRIDAY JULY, 14, 1916.
NUMBER 94
IN HOPELESS
MUDDLE NOW
. .-.-me
FOOLISH TO WORK POLITICS
IN MILITIA. ONLY TWO
REAL CANDIDATES
SIGHT. SUCCESS HERE
IN
BURSUM TO TAKE j
THE GRAPES AWAY
TALK OF LAUGHLIN FOR SU
PEEME JUDGE. MCDONALD
KAY WAIT TILL 1918. RICH-
ABDSON NOT A CAN-
'
DIDATE
Will Take Crab Hook has many staunch supporters. There ,arena of European affairs has been
Unless McDonald runs for gover- are a,5 my on nis side of he the arrival on the eastern coast in
nor it is going to take a grab hook co,mty wh Prelict a vicforv for tne American waters of a German sub
to land a candidate of any strength gentleman from Bernalillo county. In marine which had crossed the At
in the ranks of democracy. Barth 'electing a man for the exalted po- ,antic unobserved and unknown to
is not even a possibility and there s'tion of United States Senator we the Allies, coming as a complete sur- and those followers in some of the
is not a probability that any democrat sno'l choose a good able man of the prise to the United States. The mis-1 states are giving the Colonel some
can be elected. Bursum will take 'tronSt personality and character, a;on was one D peace and the boat j rough noise. In the main the Pro
all the grapes away from them this n"e who knows the needs of the Sun- brought over merchandise, the bulk;gressives will enter the campaign and
load of poles, no matter who the 8nine State and one who is com" ; of which comprised dye stuffs of , give Hughes and Fairbanks their ac
victim is Tucumcari American. petent and will do their utmost in a which this country stood in dire need tive support and the election of the
The Strongest
Senator Isaac Barth nas announced
himself as candidate for governor of
the State of New Mexico on the dem-
ocratic ticket. Mr. Barth is the
strongest candidate the democrats can
nominate. He is considered a good
lawyer and is an energetic and suc
cessful campaigner. Whatever divi
. .
sion of opinion may exist as to his
personal qualification to be governor
of New Mexico, there is none as to
nis ability as a campaigner and vote
getter. La V'oz Publica.
Putney Possible
News comes from Santa Fe, that
Mr. Putney of Albuquerque will be-
come a candidate for Governor "un-
dcr certain conditions."
Ever since the great success of the
1915 Albuquerque Fair Mr. Putney,
wns tnlkeri nf ns the loiriral Dem-
... . . ,
ocratic canuiuaie ami ne was on yeari however men who nave Ideas
several occasions offered the nomi- f their own on county matters, re
tion, practcally unamimously, and em- gardless of political affiliations, and
phatically declined it. This is of re- their ballots will he cast for the best
cord, Now that Senator Barth is an men selected from both tickets. Ft.
avowed and exceedingly popular can-
didate for Governor, certain interests
are frightened, and not without cause.
It will do these "interests" no good
to throw mud at Sienator Barth.
Either personal or political mud.
Senator Barth is sans reproach, and Nearly aI, tnose so far mentjned
the best and most flattering personal are (f0od men Reserving of the sup
recommendation for Mr. Barth's ho- port of the party an(1 no AmM se.
nesty and integrity came from a po- 1ections wi ,,e careflly made for
iitical enemy the late Judge Mann, fhc ,)Cst in,ercsts of the party with
and "interests" who are "fornisnst"
Senator Barth as our party's can the aspirarl,s. A nomination is often
didate for Governor can look un the ... r : .
files of the Albuquerque papers and
also to thc late proceedings of the
last two sessions of the New Mexico
State Senator It is known all over
oi.ne omaiur. is Known an over
State the "interests" who will fiirht
juic, mi inieresis wno win iiK'H
and are fighting Senator Barth's
candidacy and in the end it will avail
them not, as thc enmity shown will
boost instead of harming the can-
didate of the rank and file of the
Democratic party of New Mexico.
Ft. Summer Leader.
Democrats Hopelessly Muddled
It is reported from Santa Fe that
the Democratic press agent is res
ponsible for the attack upon thc Re-
publican legislature for the failure of
the militia organization in time of
need, acted upon suggestions, instruc-
. , , ... ' neen a loss to tne carranza mrtcs soiunein imhu.-i mju-s an- uvihihk' miuw aituui 1111; sumiinii u-iiiiiiil 111111 . .
tions, or information, provided for , -Hvisnrv ,nmm;iiw . , , 1 . ,r . .1 j .u 1 v .1. . 1 . .1. to the cotton. It in turn set fire
. . 01 lne anvisory committee, brought about bv an attack of Yaqui ground this vear and they purpose its people. He then pointed out thc .
fc use by the heads of the Demo- srhcd,crl to bp bPld at the close of Ir,f,bn, who ki11cd scvera, bn(,red to devote much more than the ens- mistakes made by the Administration t0 the 1.ns!',e f 2 room and for
cratic machine at Santa Fe. It .s le eonvetimu did not materialize, nf the Mexican soldiers and those not tomary amount of ammunition in an and showed that the policy adopted a time lfc 1()"ke(1 llke the house
sa.d that the heads of that same owin(f to , misnderstanding. The Uied by the fire of the gtms were effort to swing them into the Republi- and pursued by Mr. Wilson could was doomed. The fire boys re
machine recently ordered an attack hmn was ,,,,,, too and the dclef?ates burned at the stake. can column. have no other effect than ,0 widen Sponded to the call and made a
upon bossism as practiced in the Re- were ,)red aftcr many honrs of work Threatened attacks of bandits from A. T. Heart. Republican national the breach between the two nations hurried run but the neighbors put
pu ican party and then sent letters The conven,ion was a ROod onej the over thfi border have bronr,ht the committeeman from Kentucky, spent and most likely lead to war. While the fire Out with small hose at
meet ' secreT and' Is list 'in s'elect'n0 1 eVEr attended" he added- American troops to a position of read several days in New York, just af- the outrages committed by Mexicans tached to neighboring hydrants.
. . S,S ' se ec inK Notwithstanding considerable talk iness to make an attack the moment ter the Chicago convention, and in upon citizens of the I'nited States The furniture and kitchenware
a state ticket. Those letters will
worry someone before lonizi too Las
Cruces Citiz n
Candidates Scar.
The Republicans are busy on can- week that he was not a candidate, eastern states still pour toward El bated territory and it is" almost cer- unhappy country in which they live gave valuable assistance in put
didates for all the state offices and and that statement has not been re- Paso and the trains are daily bring- tain that Mr. Hughes will devote and which to them is their native! ting out the fire. Tucumcari
there are many candidates for each vised. " , ing new men to the front. The Ame- personal attention to all of them, .land, that we have for the trreat Sun.
office. So far we know of four can
didates for Senator, three for Gover
nor and as many and more for the
other state offices.
The Democrats as yet do not seem
to have worried over any of the of
fices. Senator Barth is, so far, an
almost unanimous choice for Gover-
nor, and there are several candidates
for the state ofices but outsirle of
Hon. I Barth for Governor and Prof.
White to succeed himself as Supt.
of Public Instruction there seems to
be norush to get in tSe political
arena. Ft. Summer Leader.
Could Be Elected
From all indications throughout
New Mexico it seems that the Hon.
Frank A. Hubbell is taking the lead
over his oppenent Senator Thos. B.
Catron for the United States Senate.
So far as Lincoln County is
con-
cerned Mr. Hubbell is gaining ground
every day' esPecia,y is this true on
the east side of the country where
the majority of the county's votes
are polled and where Mr. Hubbell
faithful performance of duty. We
know that in the person of the Hon.
Frank A. Hubbelll we have a man
who can qnaljfy Wc aiso ,nnw ,ll;it
;f ne is nomjn;lte(i there ;s nothing
short of a miracle wIiat collId ,,re.
vcnt his ciection. Carrizozo Outlook,
Neither Side Sure
Neither party has a cinch on elect
I tU ...... in .1..
"""J
rnnnty ow time P"11"1 hacks "ho
"avc hccn RottinR iMr bit nf thl' ax-
overs' mon, y so ,on ,hat thc? tnink
they have vested ritrhts, arc framing
up their nominations as usual, the
only difficulty being that there are
not pnoutrh offices to eto around. A
rfpa has bcon ma(Je -n this par, of
fhe connty w,,ercbv the maicontcnts
hav(i affrecd ,o work t0fretllpr n a
common cause, for their mutual benc-
fit. conditions being similiar to those
existing in Mexico. There will be
..n4nvf In ...... 1,:
' ...
Summer Leader,
Republican Success Assured
The certainty of Republican suc-
cess this fall is causing a rush of
asr);rants for Renuhlican nominations.
no hostility shown toward anv of
nines a maiiiT i superior uenerai-
shi ; nant,,in(j a campaipn and the
npfca,C(1 candidates must take into
Ca C can"' J " mus ae in o
consllcr:,t'on ,he art ,hat thc par,v
ca,crs arc oftentimes forced to re-
. . . ....
Pr nn nt n3t u,nrth urifh ftirei
iert men of equal worth with those
sc,cctcrl because of some temporary
politica, expedicncy.-Las Cmces Citi-
zen
Echoes From The Convention
One of the echoes of the Dem-
ocratic state convention comes from
. 1. . r . 1 . , 1. . T' 1 T-i
trie pen 01 uuinrie in rne r.i "
Herald which is as follows:
"Everything that was done by the
convention was in plain view." said
Judge
N; Ti I nnrrnltn rf Snnti K
chairmaf of fhe 5tatc C(.n,ra,
mittee. "Nothing was hidden or con-
rntrri rnr -e T Unw Thn m..f.
supreme court nomination, there was
nothing to indicate that he had
I changed his plan not to be a candi-
date. He told me in Santa Fe last
GREAT EVENT
ARRIVAL OF
A SUBMARINE
THE GERMANS SHOW THEIR
INGENUITY BY SPRINGING
WORLD SURPRISE. ONLY
BEGINNING
THE SITUATION
IN MEXICO QUIET
BOTH PARTIES ARE GETTING
READY FOR HARD CAM
PAIGN. ALL EYES ON
MAINE. FIGHT TO BE MADE ;
IN THE SOUTH
The events of the past week in the
a9 the dresses of the ladies bid fair ,
t0 lose their brilliancy of color if
somethinei was not done soon.
The arrival of the German sub-
marine Deutschland demonstrates
many possibilities.
With a fleet of such vessel; Ger
many can defeat the British block
ade. With the Deutschland alone Her
. i ., n
many can thwart entirely me nrn-
ish ronsnrsllip of the mails and in-
crease its gold reserve by sending
American securities to the United
statcs for sale.
P.y loading for the return voyage'
with war munitions Germany will
destroy its own argument that the
United Statcs has been unneutral
because the allies were able and the
central powers unable to obtain and
safely transport American products.
,n ar,,K .c u.ua,
two small defensive guns Germany
abandons the
cumi-imui. w.a. a..,
that
armament makes a vessel a ship of
war
The Deutschland feat lowers the
"ocean bulwark" of the
States.
l ... ...LI
It tne voyage oi tne ueurscmann
sounds the knell of British sea su-
premacy the United States faces a bc ch0sen as treasurer. and of the great future which 'es years 0!d, and yet he isas spriirht- tio"al defcnse' Yct' toda)r we have
possible menace to the maintenance The A;ltc of thc brcakinp of the before it. He spoke about its great ly as any of his boys: in fact he no aeroplanes for scout duty in Mex
of the Monroe doctrine. n(.ws nf their nominations to Hughes ranches, on which thousands of head can go around some of them, and 'o, and aeroplanes were invented in
Simon Lake, inventor of the sub- and Wilson and to Fairbanks and of cattle and sheep feed, and of its they are not counted slow by any the United States. We have not suf
marine. is preparing to libel the boat Marshall has no, ve, been en on, ' agricultural, industrial and commer- JJJTni horses for ur CaVaIry' Md
in a suit for infringement of patent but they will be toM of i, ,,. and cial advancement. He described, as JS" " th? hor"--
as a result of the Deutschland's trip, then thc country will know if they we" as any man could have done, its ed before "Uncle" Lafe in a place !'nf? country m ,he . wor,1- .
Say the Germans "This is only thc accept the honor or not. It is not splendid climate with its eternal sun- whore he was not expecting any ' machine guns are pitifully few in
beginning" and it may indeed he true generally believed that they will re-'shine, and then he told thc people ladies, and called for a Rlass of , number, and thc machine gun is an
as it may be the entring wedire to an
entirely new method of marintime
. .
warfare- (,n tne nau,e "cm at"'oat,
the firSt f the Weck' ,hc French
captMre(, f-ierrnan pnsitions three miles
nnQ) and one mi,c in depth at Flan-
court.
Russian troops raptured important
railway renter of Delatyn in south-
ern Galiria. The czar's steam rol-
ler continues to roll on. The furht-
ing has been desperate all along the
front of the war line and while it
;5 acknowledced that the British and
French have made headway, the Gcr-
.....
mans claim that it is not as great as
bas been stated. It is believed that
tbe Germans are preparing for a big
ron,cr offensive on the western
r .
The Mexican Situation
. 1 . 1 . 1 t
. ' .
" ... , . . . . . -v . . . ....
soil. The report is persistent that
Vil'a is heading a band of these men,
though the story of his death is
still persistent. The troops from the
rican troops have also killed raiders
who persist in hanging on the border
line with intent of getting across.
Word drifts back fiom the Persh
ing expedition that the soldiers are
suffering under the hot suns of the
Mexico sands and that they have
suffered many hardships. The food
supply has been poor and scanty and
there has been a heavy loss of ani
mals. The Roosevelt division is begins to
net into sliope ami officers have al
ready been accepted while regiments
arc being raised in the far western
states. Many of the former rough j
riders are signifying a desire to join
the division.
A formal conference between the
Mexican officials and those of this
country is expected soon and Carran
za was informed that there was not
need of awaiting the return of Se
cretary Lansing before going on with
the
negotiations.
The troops of Carranza have been
getting some hard knocks from those
of Villa the dead bandit's soldiers
scoring three victories in one week.
Our National folitics.
The candidate for vice-president on
the Progressive ticket does not at
all fancy the defection of Roosevelt
Republicans is assured.
The roster of the campaign com
mittee of the Republican national
committee has I
icen announced. 1 tie
- .
campaign committee is composed of
the Republican executive committee
and seven Progressives.
The members of the campaign rout
i.M.ue ,ne. ji.nn i. miams, i..wa,
F I. T A I . T
Republican; Kverett Colby, New Ter -
sey; rrogressive; Win. i rocker. -all-,
fornia. Republican ; F. W. Kstal.rook,
New Hampshire, Republican; lame
f'1"'!" !''. l"". I rogvessivo; Jam. s ; vfne(, an(fJj1(.11Cl. la5 .,., rcC(,rd mad.
A. He.nenway. Indiana, Republican;!, Mr Wilson on the tip of his
A. T. Hcrt, Kentucky, Republican; ,.,,. I
K Hw0i, Nebraska, Republican;!
., ... . T p,
Harol
l.ickes, Illinois, Proejessiv.
j
H. Martin, Virginia, Republi-I
can: Herbert Parsons. New York. Re-
,,,, . r;corgP W. Perkins, New
Ynrk PnK;ressivc . S. A. perkin4l
Wasllinrton pr0Kressive! Chester H.
Roswc11i California, Progressive; Os-
car S. Strauss, New York, Progres-
. rhvrt R Wn Mirtiiir,,,
KcpuI)lican . and Ra,pll E William.
Oregon, Republican.
Ialm.s n Reynolds of Wasliiretoti.
D. C, was named as secretary. Mr.
Reynolds is also secretary of the
t. . .
tional Keptibliran committee No an-
nouncement was made as to who v ill
fuse.
Republican leaders are hopeful
...... ..
,nat ,ne res"'t ' ,ne Main" election
wi" R've evidence of a complete re-
union of Republicans and Prorrres-
sivs in the Pine Tree state. Their
. .
advices indicate harmony between
the two organizations, but the cam-
paincrn managers do not intend to
permit encouraging reports to cause
any relaxation of vigilance. They
have not fortrottcn the political ax-
iom "As goes Maine, so goes the
nation." and, moreover, they have
been spurred to increased activity
. .
ny reports that ecretary rf , lie
Interior Lane. Secretary of Com-
merce Redfield and possibly even
President Wilson are to make
1 .t.i t . t T-v .
ocratic ticket.
Tl. t 1 : 1 ti . . t
. , , , ,. . .
. ..
his state would desert the Dcmocra-
cy if an aggressive campaign was
made. Maryland, West Virginia and
Tennessee also are considered de-
HERNANDEZ IS
THE ORATOR AT
A BIGMEETING
NEW MEXICO CONGRESSMAN
MAKES RINGING SPEECH
IN MARYLAND TOWN ON
CAMPAIGN
LAUDATORY WORDS
IN AN EDITORIAL
THE REPUBLICANS SURE TO
WIN SAYS HERNANDEZ.
THE CHICAGO TICKET IS
VERY STRONG. HERNAN
DEZ POPULAR
n. u. i i I.,..-.,..! i,.,.i ...
Capitol Heights, Maryland, has the
following account of a speech deliver-
cd by Congressman Hernandez, fol-!
lowed by a very complimentary edi-
torial. upon which the Republ.can Party, at it3 Washington Headquarters:
rests its claims to popular approval,! . , . . , .
The article says: I. .... . !. , ' "Shot with ammunition Made in
' he is fair toward those who differ j
The first big gun of the campaign wUh him in the sulution of political' America". Such was the fate of e
in Prince George's county was fired problems. This was shown in the' American troopers who met their
in Capitol Heights Monday night by able speech delivered by him in! death at the hands of the Carranzis
Representative B. C. Hernandez of Capitol Hights last Monday night.l tas. "Peace, Prosperity, and Pre
New Mexico. Mr. Hernandez is serv- Mr. Wilson's failure to measure up' ,ri.,i11. :a ,t, ramnaian slouan of
i inw his first term as a member of
r- i : il... .....i xi..
-
ujhj;h.5 aii'i n iimi.ii u.i.i. . o.
: ,,.. ,i, i,.. :f.,,....i ,., :
the popular branch of the great le- was convincingly discussed by th. .'"' ,"-,c:" ouicome o, ie ,.,.i w
gislative b"ly. He votes upon every NVW Mexican Congressman without ardly and vaeillalingi policy recorded
lirt.nosition nrcsented to the House tli, utterance nf an unkind word. His' in the annals of American history.
.... ,, ,iw.t. vn,,,. on lht. r:L,ht -:,i
An,, wi. ,,im u. riR, ,ilIo js .,.
rj )lt sj(jv
He has !sept ttb on every
I1(V(. ,.,,. ,,y 1'reside.it Wilson since1
the present session of Congress con-
....... . ...
I ' "l
hear Mr. Hernandez was not as large l ongresstonai district, ins Knowi- mir the U montiis 01 war, aim ol
as it would have been if but one meet- e'lsc of public affairs, especially those classes of those exports, indispensa
ing had been held that night. A flag f Mexico, about which so many pen- (,,. jn modern warfare, made up over
raising at Greater Capitol Heights, P'c k""w so litt,c a"'1 a,"mt wl,ich 50 per cent of the total. That is
however, attracted a number of peo- ',e seems to know so much, coupled Dcmucratic prosperity,
pie. But the attendance was good and '' forceful and convincing man-' "Preparedness? For three years this
those present listened with close at- ncr setting forth facts, make him country has been on the verge of war
tention to the excellent address de- a ma" whose voice will be heard with it;, Mexico; for two years Europe
livered by Mr. Hernandez, who spoke gladness by men of all parties in the hils t,etn running mad. The adminis-
fifty-eight minutes.
The Congressman began his speech
"7 - s " "
Na-iahout the faraway State he repre-
. ,. .
scnts. lie toid oi us growin since
it assumed the dignity of statehood
of Maryland about its polit.es. Kf-
'"ring, to his candidacy for Congress
.t. d . i: i, , ; j
- .- -
that he had been compelled to make
a hard fiwlit to wrest the office from
his Democratic opponent, who had
... ... n... .u
nem n ior iwo icrms. nm in me
..
rnth district of Maryland Mr. Muctrl,
the Republican candidate, was al-
ready in and the fact that he has
faithfully and ably served the peo-
I''e should insure his re-election by a
Pfeatly increased majority.
Mr. Hernandez then turned to Na-
tional politics and discussed in an cn-
....
ter,aining and instructive manner the
issues which Mr. Wilson has forced
upon the country. His familiarity
with Mexican affairs enabled him to
1 . 1 . t. .
that distracted country. He told his
1 : . t. : . 1. 1:1 .
. . . .u h i
. j - - -
dignation of patriotic Americans in,
every section of the Union, it should
not be forgotten that the men of ,
Mexico have the same love for the
one hundred and
forty years ago.
Mr. Hernandez speech pleased the
Capitol Heights Republicans mightily
and when tip sat down Attorney
James M. Wood arose and moved that
he be tendered a vote of thanks for
it. Instead of expressing themselves
in the usual manner, every man in
the house arose and stood for a mo
ment.
T'ie Meeting was presided over by
President Gibbs of the Capitol
Heights Republican Club, who intro
duced Mr. Hernandez in a short
speech which made the Southwestern
Congressman feel at home.
The laudatory cfitoriat reads as
follows :
A man who is winning for him
self an enviable reputation not only
as the representative of the growing
State from which he comes, but as
a fairminded, farsecing member of:
Congress, is the Hon. B. C. Her-'
nandez of New Mexico. The People!
of the new southwestern Common
wealth made no mistake in choosing
him to represent them in Washing-
jton, and it is equally certain that
they wi not fail , renew lhcW fait1l
n him at the coming election.
While Mr. Hernandez is an un-
faltering adherent to the principles
to the standard of statesmanship set
i... :.. it... . r, 1
1 jy ml. 11 Jidiues ill .lie ji.iti ii'i ui !
.,. n-.,-: i,. I
ho asnire tn Presidential honors
:,,i,,r,. frnm f:r, ,K ...ns ..,1.1
n,;raI)U, ,,roSlM,tation of the cans,- of
Republicanism.
In the case Congress continue in1
session during the summer and Mi
Hernandez remains in Wasliimrton
it is not to be doubted that be will 1
i i, -,u.,j ,, . ..i.t,..l
P..1!ir, In fl.e Fifth I
' . ... .. ,.. . .
coming campaign and wnose worn
will tell for the party that "stands
for something" the party headed
by Hughes and Fairbanks,
qo. Rgtjjgj
(tt1" t r iirJ rj :. nn
. ".a Ke. i. igui
that there were obstructions bet-
en him and thT water cooler
...... ...... ,.u.ov.i ww...,,
and b ltte(1 against the railing,
ran over he gate and almost :
crippled himself in a frantic, :
though frallant effort to accomo-
flat the sfnro::il( hoant- fill vnnntr
-
-lrlir. Hp m:wlo ono nf hia hoct
mf)sj prffound bows when
sne smiljnj,y thanked him for the
waeri an(j ie looked cheerful
happy all the afternoon.-
joooi PrOTess.
"
JJ0V Sets Fire To House
A little boy and a match came
n-,lir faus'm" a flisastrious fire at
the home Of Airs Pafker in the
northeast p irt of town
T. -.i,,,- .' i.-
a cotton mattress when the liitk
son evidently playing with a
match, lighted same and set fire
was badlv damaced bv fire and
- 1
water but the house Was saved..
Mrs. Parker is just completing a
Valuable addition to the house !
and the carpenters at work there '
Republic born
AMMUNITION
AMERICA MADE
USEDTO KILL
OUR PROSPERITY SOAKED
WITH BLOOD OF MILLIONS
SLAIN. NO AMMUNITION
HERE. IT'S IN MEXICO
THE CONVERSION
OF FRANK HENEY
HE IS FOR WILSON FROM
SELFISH MOTIVES. WILSON
LEARNED FROM LIARS.
IMPORTS INCREASE. RE
VENUES FALL
Washington, July 12, Special Cor
respondence. The Republican Publi
city Association, through its Presi
dent, Hon. Jonathan Bourne, Jr., to
day gave out the following statement
, . uc,: .,-,
tno inmiirraitr 1.1 v. iiu tan -i.tvu
l,l';icc
killed at Carrizal. It was
Carrana dareil because Wilson dared
not.
"Prosperity? It is soaked in the
blood of millions of Europe's slain
and Mexico upon whom now wc war
has added her mite to it.
i-... i.:n: i.,ii.,,. u,rrli nf .
....... s.-m to Enrooe dur-
. Z .. , ..
trat;(1 wllcI1 it ;s ,axe(l with lethar-
gy in regard to preparedness, re
plied through its chief spokesmatf,
Woodrow Wilson.
The country has been misinformed.
We have not been negligent of Na-
American i.nenuon.
And on these three factors must
. .
wt rtlv ",a,,v
Mexico.
"We arc also told that there is
a dcarth of art,ITlnit,n for our
-
,roons. Hut what have we done for
1
Mexico in the meantime? On March
,'"2- President Taft placed an
emhai 30 on ammunition and pirns go-
inc i froIr th( Vniic' States. On
IVbr lary . 1914, this embargo was
taken off by President Wi'son. On
April 21. 1914. at the time of the Vera
Cruz ocenpatim. Mr. Wilson res-
tor.d the embargo, and on September
9. 1')14, be changed his mind and
again lifted it. On October 2', 1915,
when thc A. P.. C. Conference was in
session, or s. n thereafter, be aain
restored the embargo on ammunition
and guns consigned to everyone in
Mexico but Carranza and his follow
ers. This was done to aid thc ir
reconcilable Carranza against Wil
son's old ally. Villa.
"In the matter of preparedness, the
the Democratic party has permitted
Mexico to have plenty of ammuni
tion to plug American soldiers. A few
months from now. President Wilson
can visit the Arlington Kational Ce-
. ... .-j.
1 n e 1 1 r y , jui on 1 s 1 u e .1 ! 1 1 11 1 i on,
where a number of plain white head-
stones will hear silent testimony to
the accuracy of American rifles an.l
ammunition in the hands of a Mexi-
can banditry which received his offi
rial recognition and his active sop-
. n
