One Cent THE
^^
^%?WW-m%
HERALD
AS first announced J-uiuary 1. 1916, The HAald
guarantee? full money? worth to the purchaseri
of articles a?dverti?ed :n the display cciumn? of tba
paper by any Washington merchant.
'trcalor Furnished
a? Retrate')
NO. 3393.
WEATHER: RAIN; WARMER.
WASHINGTON. D. C. SUNDAY. .JANUARY 30. 1916.
/\\1? / I.'V'P la ?A ????I?.??.??, ami G.?.?. ?>.?..?..?
U.lH> ??JZ?^^ I. Tbarret?. KI.SI
?:???.????.?? t?* <? ck>t?
FRENCH AEROS DRIVE
OFF ZEPPELIN FLEET
IN FIGHT OVER PARIS
Germans Succeed Only in Reaching Suburbs,
Where a Few Big Bombs Are Dropped
Without Much Effec?.
DAMAGE SLIGHT, IS REPORT
One House on Outskirts Blown to Pieces and Inmates In
jured?Big Crowds Throng Streets in Desire
to See Aerial Conflict.
/
toSmtm ? ?hi- ?a? TV? ?'a.,la*t.. Iler?l.l
Paris, Jan. 29.?German Zeppelins tonight attempted to raid Paris,
but were ?driven off by the guns .and aircraft of the city's defenses. The
raiders succeeded only in reaching the outskirts of the city, where a
few tremendous bombs were dropped, the explosions of which were
heard for miles.
Reports received so far by the prefecture of police indicate that
no lives were lost. Several persons are said to have been wounded,
but the property damage was slight. One house in the suburbs was
blown to pieces by a bomb and two inmates were injured.
The Zeppelins, the number of which is not known at this time,
are believed to have been accompanied by protecting squadrons of aero
pl-mes. The bomb that destroyed the house was dropped from one of
the latter, it is reported.
majoriry of Uta tnh*blLan.t?,
?rrans of previajaja attacks^ flex-Iced
?The Zeppelin? are comtn?." w?? ?>H
alarm ?pread about ? o'clock ln the
?venias. Immediately tb? city becaraaa
dark. Window? were caartalned. ?treet
licht? extinguished, and powerful ??arch
ll?ht? besan to explore the heaven?.
Zeppell? ?lahted.
At ?? o'eloc*. La Ferte If Uon reported
that a Zeppelin had been slshted flytni
toward the capital
Swiftly the sreat fleet of battleplane?
which haul been concentrated for the
city*? ?dafenae too* to the air. Every
foot of ?pace over Paris waa patrolled.
The anti-aircraft sun? in the chain of
defending forta cleared for action.
Fir? .companle? were made ready and
whtjtle? warned the populace to leave
the upper ?tories of the city'? homea.
Tim..?, i'aru sum" ? ...ars. out
M. toSU.
to fh?-*
street? and packed tbe bridyee over the
Beine, watching the ikie? for sign of
tb? invaders.
? r?,?,.), Wttrh Henvena.
Gay laughter floated up from the dark
ened city. Crippled -soldiers, officers off I
duty, thrones from the poorer .section? j
.and richly attired women from the cafes
m trifled Jn the crowds which swept
through the streets, ?searching the
heaven? with their eyes.
The secretary of state for aviation hur
ried ii an automobile for La Bourget
aviation camp, ?rid military officials each
hastened to his poet. The lanea of
searchlights crossed in midair, but dis
closed no enemy above.
Suddenly, about 10 o'clock, a deep ex
plosion rumbl-ed over the city, followed
immediately by the sharp rattle of small
guns and the bark of the anti-aircraft
latteries. Other explosions followed in
mpid succession, but no Zeppelins were
sighted by the crowds. Quick-flrlng high
ln the a-'r was heard from a distance,
together with the clang of fire bells.
Then all sgain became still.
Reassuring bulletins were -sent out im
mediately by the authorises. The air
raid had been repulsed. The throngs
thinned. The poor returned to their
bouses; the revelers to thetr cafes.
YOUNG WOMAN HUGGED
BY YOUTH ON STREET
Mrs. Frank Glasscox Tells Police
White Man /accosted Her and
Threw Arms About Her.
A y-iuns woman living tbe name of
Mr?. Krank Ulasicox. apartment 2, US
Spi-tni Road, reported to the poll?? last
nlsht that about !1. while walkintr
alons Spring Road, between Fourteenth
and Holmead street? northwest, ahe was
?c<-o?t<fd by a youns white man, who,
a? ?he attempted to hurry past him,
threw hla arma around her.
She ?creamed, ?he told the police, on
r-ecoverlns from a momentary hesita
tion at the ?uddennee? of the Action.
FYlehtened. the man. ?he ?aid. dashe 1
toward Fourtisenth, and ?he ran Into a
nearby houae. The yours woman latrr
walked to the Tenth precinct ?tatlon
?nd made a arerraal report of the alles*'!
assault.
Tra?a Kills Beer.
West Ch?s?ter. Pa.. Jan a.?On? of the
ten deer at larse In Chester County wi
killed last nijth- by \ rtaln on the main
'?m? of the Pennsylvania Rallraaad Com
pany near Thornda'e. The animal waa
on- of the larseat and old???! wiil.'b e?
?:at>ed ?ome year? aao from a oreaeie?
near Glenloch. Thre? other? escaped ln
l'lry.
Oldett Woman Phyuieian Die*.
Santa Bar-Tar?, ??! Jan ? ?Dr. Lola
?fitch alanafle.d. believed to have been
th? oldest woman phy?ician In the United
Bta???. died In ber home here laat n.?jht.
a*-4 H.
She waa a native of FayetteTllle, K. T..
? nd in her it-urn *oinanhood l* ?aid to
hav? comi -c'.cd the &r?l open-air achool
TAKEN FROM
DUTCH LINER
Native American Forcibly Re
moved from Noordam by
Party of British.
QUESTIONED AT RAMSGATE,
PERMITTED TO PROCEED
British Take Every Sack of Mail from
Steamer?Bureau Chief Flournoy
? - On Board Liner.
t- -_-_
New York, Jan. 2J.?Alexander Krappe,
of Boston, a native American, waa
forcibly taken off the Holland-America
Uner Noordam by a boarding party from
a British destroyer 1? the Downs.
Krappe's American passport, iseued by
Ambassador Gerard, carried no weight,
and he was taken to Ramsgate for
lurther questioning.
At Ramsgate, his birth certificate
?seemed to satisfy the British authorities
that he was not Identified with (Sei-man
Interests and he waa permitted to pro
ceed to Falmouth and rejoin the Noor
dam there. Hla passport, however, was
Dot returned.
"Ambassador Gerard granted me th'
passport only when he was thoroughlr
convinced of the truth of ray state
menta." said Mr. Krappe. "My father,
who is a merchsnt in Berlin, swore under
oath that I was born in Boston after he
bad become a naturalized citisen of the
C.'nlt??*d Statea.
Every sack of mail that had been put
aboard the Noordam at Rotterdam was
seized by the British ln Falmouth
harbor on January 12. Part of it was
Dutch and Swiss mail but no discrimina
tion was mad?.
Amons the passengers on the Noor
dam was Richard E. Flournoy, chief of
the United States Bureau of Citizenship,
who was sent abroad by the State De
partment ln September to Investigate the
passport question and to help those
Americans who. hy prolonged absence
abroad have lost their citizenship rights
and have eartwd the sobriquet "Twilight
Americans."
Forty-three members of the Ford peac?
party returned.
Women Fined $100 Each.
Seward. Alaska. Jan. 39.?Twenty-eight
women arrested on a charire of selling
liquor at "Xnchorage. the principal con
struction camp of the government rmll
roadr pleaded guilty and were fin?-?! 110?)
each, ft was learned here today.
Brig. Gen. Hodson Diei.
London, Jan. 29.?Brig. G?n. George
Benjamin*? Hodson. of th? Indlsn army.
?ho wii wounded In the fighting on Gal
lipoli Penl.iiult.. hr.j died of his Injuries
at Malta.
?neen Has Kampa.
The Hague, via London. Jan. a?The
i.lners of the queen Is taking a satisfac
tory course. She Is suffering from the
mumps.
"Shrapnel Bonnet" Lateit.
Paris. Jan a?Th? latest style In head
gear for ?omen in the "shrapnel bonnet."
It is a fl*u affair, made out of red leather
an-I designed upon the lines of the steel
??lir-Mpnei-proof helmets worn by French
?soldier?.
Sister Who Nnrsed Roosevelt Dies.
Chic-Ugo, Jan. ?.?Sister Msry Dolores,
friend of Col. Roos***velt and one of hla
attendants when he was -\t "Vf??:-?} Hos
pital, re<*overlng from the wou-id InllictftI
by s wouid-be assassin at Mils-auk?.*? dur
iti? Lbs UU namjalgn, la dead berta.
"Like My Diamonds?"
Says Caruso. "Here."
apadaJ to Th? ?*V?.h-rgi.?o Herald.
New York, Jag. 39.?The prodi
gal generosity of Enrico Caruso,
the tenor, has again asserted it
self. Ear! Lewis, treasurer of the
Metropolitan Opera Company, the
recipient, is himself telling the
story.
"Yesterday afternoon," he re
lates, "I met Caruso in the lobby
of the Metropolitan. After greet
in? him, I noticed that from his
full, fluffy scarf of Italian silk,
?came an effulgent light. It was
a diamond ecarfpin, the most
beautiful I ever saw.
"'Do you like it?' the tenor
asked me.
" "Very, very much,' I replied.
" 'Allora e vostro,' he said, re
moving the pin and forcing it into
my hands. Take it' "
When seen today on the new
Lewis scarf, it was noted' that
there were forty-eight diamonds
in the cluster.
ARRAS'CAPTURE
IS PURPOSE OF
GERMAN DRIVE
Teutons Make Big Prepara
' tions "for Violent Offen
sive in Artois.
BATTLE Sim? RAGES
Germans Capture 1,000 Yards
of First Line Trenches
from French.
DENTS IN LINES ARE REPAIRED
French R?scover Lost Trenches West
' of ??? 140?Artillery Fire In
tense, Says Report.
By C. F. BERTILLL
Special Cabla to Tba Wajhiagton HenkL
Paris, Jan. 29.?Aeroplane scouts re
port tremendous preparations for an of
fensive campaign by the Germans In
Artois and on the Flanders front. All
military experts here believe that the
present Teutonic drive will last for some
time longer.
The present drive extends over a front
of forty miles.
Violent bombardments of the French
lines north and south of Arras and In
fantry attacks on the St Klcholae-St.
Laurent highway indicate that the Ger
mans are making a determined effort, to
?capture the city of Arraa.
London, Jan. S?The battle In Artola
continu?e with unabated fury. The Ger
mans have extended the front on which
they are attacking to well below the
?somme River. Here, following violent
cannonading, the attackers captured
more than 1,000 yards of the first-line en
trenchments from the French, occupying
the village of Frise, and making priso
ners upward of 1.0?U French, who were
unwounded, according to the German of
ficial statement.
Further north, west of Hill 140, accord
ing to tonight's report from Paris, the
French have recovered several section?
of trench captured yesterday by the
Germans, So Intenso has been the fire
of the artillery In this region that a
group of fifty French prisoners, taken
by the Germans in the previous day's
fighting, were prevented by the shower of
shells from being moved to the rear, and
today they were released by the French
In a counter-attack.
Germans flepuleed.
Several Gei-man attack;? were repulsed
by the French, who. for the most part, ;
have repaired the dents battered ln their
lines by tho first onslaughts of the Ger
man drive.
The French night official report from
Paris reads:
"In Artois to the west of Hill No. 140,
wc have continued successively to re
occupy the ?sections of trench which the
enemy captured yesterday. During this
fighting we released about fifty French
soldiers who had been made prisoners by
the Germans. ?
'Mouth of La Folle road the enemy trien
to recapture two craters which we had
captured. . All their attacks were re
pulsed.
"Between, the Somme and the Oise I
the artillery on both sides displayed
great activity. In the region of Ar
mancourt, south of Lassigny, we dis
persed a provision convoy and de
stroyed an observation post.
"To the north of the Aisne our artil
lery destroyed a number of observa
tion posts on Hill No. 108, south of
Berry au Bac. and broke ?p enemy
organizations on the plateau of Veau
clerc."
No S?pante Peace for Serbia.
Rome. Jan. ?9?The Serbian Legation
this afternoon flatly denied the reports
that Serbia haa asked m separate peace
irom Anatrlf
ON THE TR UL
?.S, IS FIRM IN
REQUIRING THAT
GERMANY YIELD
-
Graver Aspect Given Lusi
tania Case by Demands
of This Government.
NO ULTIMATUM GIVEN
Berlin Has Been Advised,
Howeveivthat U. S. Will
Yield Not an Inch.
Prompt acquiescence by Germany ln
the demands of the T'nfted States affect
ing the Kusitanla controversy Is abso
lutely necessary. If the friendly relations
existing between the two countries are to
be -continued.
This fact, learned last night from a
source that could not be questioned,
though it cannot be dlsclo-sed. has given
to the Issue between the two countries
a graver aspect 4ttan lt haa had for
months.
There has been no ultimatum given to
Count von Bernstorff. It has not been
specified that he shall prc?eent to Secre
tary of State Landing, on or before next
Frida \. a memorandum from his govern
ment agreeing to the terms of settlement ?
fixed by the United States. The exact
facts ar? these:
Appeared S a r prised.
Monday afternoon the Ambassador
called on Secretary I-Aiising and learned
the attitude of the President and the ?Sec
retary. He appeared surprised, declar
ing that he had hoped the proposals of ,
his government would seem to the I'nited
States entirely adequate. He then asked i
that the final word of the I'nited States
be put in writing tao fhat he might make
no mistake ln advising his government.!
This was agreed to.
On the day following the Ambassador '
ajjain called, and was hand?1-! the memo- ?
rand um. Rejecting the proposition of
Germany, which offered to make repara- I
tion, but not with an admission of liabil
ity, and which did not provide for a dis
avowal, the propositions given the Am
bassador by Secretary Lansing demanded
that the disavowal should be expressly
given and the liability for reparation ad
mitted.
The Ambassador was then given to un
derstand. It', is stated, that the United
States government believed that the time
had arrived when Germany .should give a
definite answer, otherwise th"* "confiden
tial negotiations"' between tbe Secretary
and the Ambassador would appear to be
profitless. The interview lasted thlrty
flve minutes. At its conclusion the Am
bassador Is said to have expressed the
hope that a way out of the impasse might
be found.
OLD MAN HURLED OVER
SIDEWALK BY SPEEDER
Joseph Hayes. 62, May Die?Motorist
Speeds Away and Has not
Been Found.
Joseph Hayes, a gray haired man of
Kl year?, true, struck by m big touring
ear at 8:30 o'clock laat night at Thomaa '
Circle and hurled aerosa the ?I.it-walk.
The chauffeur, according to eye wit
nesses of the accident, did not slacken
"?peed, but crowded on all hi? power and
dashed out Vermont ave.
An ambulante wa? ?railed and llayea
was rushed to the Hom??opathic Hoa
pltal. He had not re?iovei*d conscious
ness at an ?arly hour thla morning.
Haye? Is a huckster. His address 1?- un
known.
CoteeK. AorMa Sr?!?! lian* T ?a." m. da?lj.
aeBthtin Bairn?, t? m. m ? ?.-au?.
RUSSIANS H DT
AFTER TURKS
Pursue Fleeing Ottoman
Troops Through Snow
Fourteen Feet Deep.
IMPORTANT TOWN CAPTURED;
WHOLE PROVINCE OCCUPIED
Concealed Batteries Check Advance
of Turks East of Erzerum,
Says Petrograd.
Special Valia io The Wa-biu.tt.n UmU.
landon, Jan. ?9. ?Through ?now
.??p?? places fourteen feet deep, the Rus
sian* are continuine the pursuff*-of the
fleeing T?rke in the '*...??;- foilowlng
the capture of Khnyskaly, an Important
town fifty miles ?south of Eraerum, the
Czar's troops are now in occupation of
the whole province, and are gathering
up the scattered detachments of the
stampeded Turkish regulars.
The Russian official, issued at Petro
grad today, says:
"On the Caucasus front In the region
of Uki? Tortum wc arc making progress
north of Dumlu Dagh Mountains.
"In the Erzerum district we are dis
lodging the Turks in a number of places.
"An attempt by the Turks to advance
toward the Upper Passine Valley, east
of Erzerum, was stoppini by fire from
our artillery In concealed positions.
"In this fighting we are capturing de
tachments of Turkish regulars. We are
continuing our pursuit of th*1 Turks in
some places through snow fourteen feet
deep.*'
The Turkish official, issued at Constan
tinople tonight, says:
"On the Caucasus the Russian center
attacked our outpost positions, but were
repulsed, lea-ring a number of prisoners
in our hands.
"Both the Russians and the Turks
speak of a period of quiet on ?he Tigris."
Mail Auto Hurls
Woman to Street
Mrs. Agnes Sullivan Suffers
Concussion of Brain
in Accident.
Mr?. Agnes R. Sullivan. 40, :28S ? street
n-jrthwest, wo.fi probably fatally injured
when struck by Unite?! States mail auto
mobile No. 3 about S:30 o'clock last night.
The accident occurred at the Intersection
of New Hampshire avenue and Q street.
She was still unconscious at an early
hour this morning. Edwin C. George, the
driver of the mail wagon, is -being held
at No. 2 precinct charged with assault.
Mrs. Sullivan had ju.st stepped from
the curb when the heavy machine, filled ?
with mall en route from the station to
the Postofflce, struck her. She suffered
concussion of the brain, several broken
bones and lacerations over the head and
body.
The injured woman was rushed to |
Emergency Hospital tn the automobile
of Henry E. Davis, 1931 .Nineteenth street
northwest.
Representative Has Smash-up.
Representative Steele. of Idaho, nar
rowly escaped serious Injury at 8
o'clock last night when a defect ln
Its steering apparatus caused his au
tomobile to swerve and dash into a .
tree at Jackson place and ? street
northwest. Though thrown heavily
against the dashboard of the machine,
the Representative escaped injury.
Rasti&Bf Fire City.
Petrograd. Jan. 29.?The city of Vilna,
held by the Germane, ta burning. Flames
eet by Russian shells have been raging
for several days and lt is understood
that th? Germane are preparing to evacu
ate tbat portion of tho city which la
?till standing.
CARRANZA BACK
OF PLOT AIMED
AT IU, REPORT
Secret Service Agent Files
Report Making Sensa
tional Charges.
"MASSACRES ORDERED"
First Chief Said to Be Main
Instigator of Anti-Amer
ican Feeling.
Announcement was made yesterday by
'the State Department that all the data
called for by the Kail resolution, amount
ing to virtually all the department rec
ords on Mexico since the Inception of the j
.revolution ?six years ago, has been
compiled for transmission to the Senate
Meantime, it was learned, there has
been received by the State Department a
report made by the special agent of the
?Secret Service and dispatched from San
Antonio on January .*. Tt can be stated
on excellent authority that the report
makes the following charges:
1. Carranaa himself is the chief Insti
gator of anti-American sentiment In Mex
ico at the present time.
2. Carranza himself has Instructed his
generals to carry out systematic persecu
tion of Americans in Mexico.
Z. Carranxista generals have promul
gated anti-American sentiment through
out all ^he districts in which they axe in
control.
4. Carra n s i 5 ta penera'.s have organized
and carried out raidr on American prop
erties in various parts of Northern Mex
ico.
5. Carranzista generals have ordered
the killing of Americans.
Peritali y t on*nncd.
The information reached Washington
from a trustworthy source and was par
tially confirmed by a representative of the
American Red Cross recently returned
from Northern Mexico, where he ha* been ?
Identified with the Red Cross mission ?
which was recently ordered out of the ?
country at Carranxa's orders.
According to the statement of this |
agent, whose name is withheld, tlie Red ;
CrOaSs ^rain which was carrying Red j
Cross officials out of Mexico into Kl Paso J
was stopped hy a detachment of Car- j
ranzistas. under two Carranxista gen- !
erais, and all the passengers forced toi
alight and line up against the side of
one of the cars.
Th-^n followed he said, all tlie pre
liminaries of an execution by a firing
squad It was not until the Mexican sol
diers had aimed their guns that one of
: the generals gave the order to stop.
Then he tore a Red Cro.se (lag off the
side of the car, spat on it. and flung It
Into the face of one of the Americana
At the .same time he said:
"Goodbye, gringo, we will meet in San
Antonio."
Ccnstantine Considers Abdicating.
Milan, Italy, Jan. IP.?"King Constan
ti!?; of Greece," says a dispatch from
Athens, "has discussed with members of
his cabinet the advisability of abdicating
out hes been ursed to take no step to
? ward that end at the present time. Im
' t-crtant developments in the situation in
volving the entente powers and Greece
are anxiously awaited "
Noted Fcundrynan Dies.
Syracuse, N. Y., Jan. 2y.?Christopher
C. Bradley, one of the best known foun
drytnen in the country, died bere early
today, aged 82. ?
Powder Blast Victim Thes.
Wilmington. Del.? Jan. 3.?One of the
men Injured by last r.Urht's explosion In
th? Cfcrney'a Point plant of the DuPontj
Pewtter Company died today. '
WILSON SEES NATION
BEING FORCED INTO
EUROPEAN STRUGGLE
"Our Interests ?Are Slowly Being Drawn Inte
This Maelstrom"?"Difficult to
Hold Off," He Asserts
"NAVY SHOULD BE STRONGER'1
Coast Defenses Insufficient, Declares Executive in Qeveland
Address?Naval Equipment of United States
Is Fourth in Strength.
Striking Sentences in Address By
President to Cleveland Audience
"The quality of our coast defenses is excellent but the quantity is in
sufficient." *??
"All the world outside the United States is on fire. Our interest? ,
are slowly being drawn ?af> thi* maelstrom "
"Our navy is one of the most efficient, but is actually fourth in
strength among those of the world powers." m
"The spirit and threat of war creep in upon
this strife, aad whrch is much more than a European stroggie
"The world will never he the same again aft? this war is
"We are being ?called upon to protest or to intervene became tsi almost
everything of real significan? which occurs in Europe."
?-???-<
?p?~ ?? t? I ?. ??? a?a?ai * ... I ... ?
Cleveland, Ohio, Jan. 29.?President Wilson tonight, for the firs*
time, declared that the United States navy must be improved at once
The navy should be the main arm of our defense, he asserted. The
President said that statistics show the United States navy ranks fourth
among the navies of the world. He declared this should be changed it
once.
The President took up the needs of the navy in an address before
4.000 persons in Gray's Armory here. Though having made two ear
lier speeches today and having traveled from Pittsburgh, he did not
appear tired.
The President dwelt at length on the grave dangers facing the
United States as the resuk of the world war in Europe.
BRITISH PRESS
LAUDS WILSON
Warning to Kaiser Thought
Embodied in Reference to
Foreign Relations.
NEWSPAPERS DO NOT THINK
HE IS TOO PROUD TO FIGHT
Time Limit for Di??vow?l by Germany
of Sinking of Lusitani? Causes
Joy in London.
By W. OBTON TEW80N.
London. Jan. *9?Practically the ?sntire
presa of England ha? Jumped to tl>? con
elusion that President Wllaon ?ae warn
ing Germany for the laat time when h?
said on Thureda?
"I cannot t?sll you what th? Interna
tional relation? of thl? country will be
tomorrow."
Confirmation that this conclusion I?
?20iT??>ct Is afforded, accordln?; to th? aft
ernoon newspaper?, by the ra^aort that a
time limit haa been fixed by Waal, in ?tor.
for Germany to diaavow the ?Inkiru? of
the IaUfltanla. It 1? need)??? to say that
joy uni ??trained 1? shown at the reportagi
sensational turn of eventa
HI? speech ha? done wonder? In dl?
?bjsine the popular Idea here that, come
what might. America would not fighi.
The ch??ate In the ttsoe of the editorial?
show? thl?. For Instance, tontsht'a ?tar,
which la a go?ernment orean, ?tarta Ita
editorial, eaptioned Tomorrow.'? with:
"We were never amona; those who mla
Interpreted Hr. Wllaon'? famous phrase
'too proud to tight-' *VYe never took ih-Xa I
mean that the American people put pea?-?? !
above honor, public law, liberty and the
right? of man."
The editorial then fivaa the text of th*
"too proud to tight" ep-eech, and agalla it
"one of the uobleet utterance? of the
war."
Particular ?tre??? Is laid on the word
"tomorrow.' uaed by the Preaident It ?
is thought by the Star that Mr. Wllaon
had ln mind Col. Houae'? presence in
Berlin, and the ?tory of Germany, when
Anally realising ahe la irretrievably
beaten forclnjr a Quarr?! upon the Unlttsd
Stales. I? revived.
Storms Bar Anitnan Adrase?.
Rome. Jan. ?S.? Severe storm? are rag
ing in Albania and the Auatro-Hungarian
advance upon Durara? ha? been delayed.
according to report? recelv?sd here ?oday.
In the meantime Au?tri?n agent? ?re im
ported to be trying to gain the friend
ship of Essad Pasha leader of the Alba
nian nationalists, who haa gathered large
force? south of Durasse
~a?r*t Vork mai FtartAm ?? recial. -
Finest train to Florida re?ort? Atlantic
Coeat Line. I 15 p. ra. dally. ? all-ataw! ltd.
train? tUUjr. 1? Is*. T. ar?. ?jw^Ajt,
.??? ??, ?.?... ?..,???
"AM tbe world outside th? Unti??
States Is on flre." he declared. "D? you
wonder men ae* red* Our Intens?is are
slowly being drawn Into thia maftlsirom.
It Is difficult u> hold off W? hav? don?
se But It has needed a grami moml ot
?stchfulneas and unremitting pattane*.'*
The Prealdeot alao for th? flrst ttm?
tonight touched upon the ooaat dtrfenars
"Our coast defense? ar? admirable,
he said. "The quality Is admirable, bai
th* quantity is insufficient."
In dlscusatns the navy Usa President
aald:
"Vou ha?.** told me tt Is th? sioond In
strength. I am sorry, but experta doe t
?agree, reckoning by Its actual Kmith
I believe It to be on? of th? *hM ef
ficient,'but actually It Is fourth.''
?Ira..?* Ilitt? Have ??|??-.??<
"I esteem It s ih-itH?**??? to o? la deve
land Kiln and 4o address you upon th?
serious questions of public p-Hlcy now
oonfrttiUnr* M." said tha President **t
halve not riven myself this sort of pleas
?re very often since I have been Presi
dent, for I hope that you have obaerved
what my conception of th? -s-fftc* of
President Is I do not believe lhat. or
dinarily speak Inc. It is a speech-making
offl?*. I hsve found the exactions tt It
?such lhat It was absolutely
for me to remain ?constantly lo
with the daily chances of ?public
Bess, and you ao arranged It that t
ahouid be Preatdent at a time when thai-?
was a great deal of public business to
remain in touch with.
"But the times arc such, gentlemen.
CONTI ?. Ell ??* PAC? NlKi
AGED MAN DROPS DEAD
AT MARKET ENTRANCE
John J. Frye Seen to Stagger ar He
Entered Doorway and Diet Be
fore Ambulance Arrives.
John J. Fry*. ?, of Itti Fourth street
?outheast, dropped dead at the Ninth
?street entrance to (enter Mark? at :.J?
o'clock yesterday afternoon Tb? egad
man was seen to ?laager as he cater*?
tbe doorway and then fall to the floor
He waa pronounced dead by a physic-Ian
upon tha arrival of the ambulance from
Emergency Hoapltal.
Mr. Frye waa formerly -sroplcyed aa
watchman at the pumping statVm. He la
survived by his wife, two daugtiters Mlas
M*u-y E. Fry? ?nd Alberta Wadttag. aa?
on? aon. N. ?t??. Funeral ?Pervie?? will
be held at the houae on Tui-adsy morning
at 10JO o'clock. Interment will ba la
Foreat Hill. Md.
Assassins Kar Down
Rome. ?a?. 9 ?Rome ?ea ?papers stai?
today that tb? murderers ?af Joseph
Petroelnl tbe American detective naii
ainat.d at Palermo March 14. MS. hav?
been run down They aay that the nw
?caaaful bunt waa won by two Ameivaa
detective?, who have be-en working ?aa
ih? cast tor ntarly alx yeara
