ft
WEATHER
MARKE IS
NEW YORK CITY
Average copper price
week ending Jan. 12
23.49.
Arizona Fair
MEMBER ASSOCIATED PRE88
VOL. 18, NO. 211.
BISBEE, ARIZONA, SUNDAY MORNING, JANUARY 30, 1916.
PRICE FIVE CENTS.
One Hundred Is Estimated
Death Toll In Floods Which
Devastated Valleys Near San
Diego; Relief Badly Needed
Otay Valley Estimate of the Loss of Life Still Continues at
Fifty. San Luis Rey and San Pasqual Sections Are Now
Thought to Have Been Wiped Out by Terrible Avalanche
of Waters which is Said to Have Coursed Over Them.
Flood conditions in Rocky Mountain Region Said to be Im
proving; Though Yuma Fears a Repetition of the Last
Flood and is Making Preparation for the Worst Colorado
River Crest Expected to Reach Arizona Town Sunday or
Monday.
SAN DIEGO, Jan. 29. (Wireless to San Francisco) One hundred
lives were lost, early estimates show, and 'the charming little valleys,
fify miles north of the Mexican line, are desolate from floods and cloud
bursts. The death total in the Otay Valley is seemingly established a1
fifty. Relief agencies are working in that direction. Late reports have
the floods sweeping the San Luis Rey and the San Pasqual Valleys, doub
ling the loss of life. ,
Conjectures and. meagre reports, only, are available. Communication
is paralyzed. Seventeen bodies were recovered at San Diego, swept
down the lower Otay. The others are believed to have floated to sea.
San Diego is virtually undamaged. Mt.ny were injured it is reported,
when Tia Juana Hot Springs Hotel collapsed.
The cloudburst is reported to have swept the San Luis Rey and San
Pasqual valleys. The tiny village of San Pasqual is reporTed wiped out
The fate of San Luis Rey and Ocean side has not been reported. If the
flood is of the reported magnitude it would seem impossible the former
with its Franciscan Mission co"ld escape annihilation. Oceanside has a
population of one thousand. The population of the San. Pasqual valley
is from three to five hundred. It contains one of the great Miller-Lux
ranches, known all over the world The expedition of the United States
warships, in San Diego bay, started with launches and barges up the
Otay Valley. It is reported to havebeen unable to penetrate the valley.
An overland expedition has started for San Diego. There is no word of
its oropress.
The first reports of the 0ay disasaster Thursday, were that houses
were washed away and cattle drowned. The word then was that the low
er Otay dam was holding. The volume of water since would indicate the
seel and concrete structure had given Way. Last night the human bod
ies nd the frightful amount of wreckage left no doubt as to the collapse
of the dam.
ROCKY MOUNTAIN
REGION BETTER
DENVER, Jan. 29. Storm conditions
in the Rocky Mountain states which
were svept for two days by rain and
snow fro-n the Mexican border to Can
ada, showed marked improvement, ac
cording to advices here. There is no
loss of life. The most serious proper
ty damage was Indicated in the vicini
ty of Phoenix and Yuma, where the
Gila. Salt and Colorado rivers are in
flood stages. Phoenix estimates the
damage in that region at a million.
Railroad and wire communications is
Twelve feet of water are rushing ov
erland trains are reported twelve
hours late.
Cheyenne advices are that no trains
pre coming west today and that snow
is drifting badly in siuth western Wy
oming. Southwestern Colorado is still
blockaded and progress is reported In
clearing Cumbers Pass of 2S foot snow
drifts. The slides continued in the Tellur
ide and Silverton region. Yuma re
ports the Colorado River has passed
he 2" foot stage and is rising a foot
hourly, with the crest of the high wat
"t two days away! Merchants are mov
ing their stock and ranchers are driv
ing their livestock from the lowlands.
Phoenix describes the storm, ending
tony. as the worst in eleven yeara.
Reclamation officials safd they hop
ed to be hold the Yuma Valley levee,
just rebuilt, but expressed doubt as
to whether those on the California sid
would, withstand the rise. Every a
vailable man is being pressed into ser
vice strengthening the levees. No
word was received from fhe Imperial
Vx.lley since earlv today when the last
wire to Yuma failed.
Twelve feet of watr are rushing ov
er the spillways of the Rooseveltj Dam.
The Gila and Salt Rivers are in flood
stees but are receding.
Wire communication which was seri
ously impaired by the storms, east of
the Missouri River, showed improve
ment. LOS ANGELES REPORTS RAIN
LOS ANGELES. Jan. 29. The Los
Angeles County line is the marked lim
it for adventurous persons seeking to
reach Snn Diego. 126 miles south. All
roads further down are impassible.
Rail coTrrnunication is out of commis
sion. A launch started late today and
is expected to arrive at midnight. It
carried the mails and one or two pas
sengers. Telegraph and telephone lines trj
down. Various offices were besieged
nil day by men and women, beggin.r
tor news ana onenng almost anytning
for the privilege of sending a message.
When turned away, they turned to the
radio service but were told the com
pany was swamped with messages and
no more were accented. A steady rain
tnnleht promised that conditions will
become still worse.
PHOENIX IMPROVED
riiOENIX. Jan. 29 Flood eondi
(Continued on Page Four)'
EXPLOSION HAD
ON RYll
' AT SEA
Passengers and Crew of Holland-American
Liner Noor
dam Bring Word of Serious
Accident to Great Steamer.
NEW YORK. Jan. 29. The Holland
American liner Ryndam, which was
mysteriously disabled at sea, bound
from New York to Rotterdam, was
the victim of an explosion in the boil
er room, killing several persons, ac
cording to reports brought here by
passengers and officers of her sister
ship Noordani'. The Noordam reached
Falmouth on her voyage ' the same
day the Ryndam was towed to port.
Officers and passengers of the Noor
dam confirm the stories regarding ex
traordinary precautions of English au
thorities to prevent details of the
Ryndam disaster becoming known. It
it is said to be common gossip at Fal
mouth that several bodies were re
moved from the crippled liner. When
the Noordam reached Falmouth she
was boarded by British naval officers
who took ashore Alexander Kapper,
a second class passenger. Kapper
was permitted to return after being
questioned by British authorities. The
Noordam encountered the worst storm
in its history, according to officers.
Her coal supply was exhausted and
she was forced to put into St. Johns,
N. F.
SURVIVORS IN PORT.
BUENOS AIRES, Jan 29 The Ame
rican ship Rhine arriver with 18 sur
vivors of an American vessel sunk in
the Atlantic near the Equator In a
storm.
BANK BANDITS CONFESS.
CHICAGO. Jan. 29. Four men ae-
i cused of robbing the Washington
,Park Pank of fifteen thousand were
j indicted on six counts after Eddie
Mack, confessed leaner or tne quentei
of robbers, told the grand jury the
j story of the robbery. Mack was not
, indicted. The state's attorney said
he wold not b pro,ecuted "if he
Vpn. hI. nromiap to iPaVA the eountrv
after testifying in the trials of the
Indicted men." Mack. It Is said,
made allegations that fifteen Chicago
oolicemen protected the criminals,
who were Imported to Chicago from
New YorV to discredit department
heads. These allegations .said the
states attorney, are being lnveigat-j
ed. The four indicted men are said
to have come from New York.
HOICIDES
INCREASED
I Bl 1 1 B HI I If
HU Y
UUUIlll i
While There Has Been Falling
Off of Smaller Felonies,
o- r i ft t- r
Since Dry Law Took Ef-
feet Murders Increase.
FOURTEEN TRIED IN
THE PAST12 MONTHS
f vn- r i " ,
lWO Killings Have UCCUrred
During the Present Month,
Two Acquittals Had During
Time Involved.
, " " :.v - V
n l ia t n awa maw wt o t -i i 1 1 n r mr in '
" C , ,, . , . V
. , . . .... ,
.u ioc luuiiij nunc luc uiviujuitiuil lan i ..... 1 i
. i . .t i T i. i most widely known and respected
went Into effect this does not apply I . . ... . ,
, , . , . , . .,.. ':citi.ens of the Warren District. Con-
being committed. During the past 13
months no less than sixteen persons
charged with murder, have been be-
Tore the superior court. Of this num -
ber four were homicides committed
in 1914, three were arrested during'
that year, but were not tried until
1915, while the other committed a
crime in December, but was not arrest
ed until 1915.
During the past month- there have
been two homicides committed, but
these cases are not included in the
sixteen mentioned. There is not an
other county in the state that has near
the number of murders upon its re
cord. Of the sixteen there have been
convictions in all but three cases. In
two of these the Juries brought in
verdicts of acquittal and in other case !
a plea of not guilty has been enter-
ed and the case is to be tried later. I
There were a number of pleas of guil-1
ty in the cases of murder in the second l
degree and to manslaughter, but these
are counted as convictions in the court ,
records and the showing made speaks I
with credit on the county attorney's
office and that of the sheriff. The case :
included in the list are as follows: ' !
Si West, who was convicted of the j
killing of Mervin Johnson on New
Year's day at McNeal and was tried on ;
February 26 and found guilty of man-
slaughter. He was sentenced to serve j
a term of not less than two andone-j
half years to ten years. j
Ben Merriweather and Chas. Dingle, I
who on February 6, killed Am ado Her-'
nandez on the road between Douglas
I and Forest and who were tried on
ruary 6. They were found guilty and tee wa3 laid before the Senate by Sen
sentenced to be hung. The case was ator Newlands. Newlands was heard
appeal and Is now before the j
supreme court of this state.
Harry McCool, who was tried in
March for the killing of Louis Capello,
in Bisbee, on February 22, 1914, and
was found guilty of manslaughter. He
was sentenced to serve not less than
nine nor more man ten years.
Nicholas Merkovics. who plead
to murder In the second degree for
me Killing oi Leo juciormicK.'On June
6 at Camp Douglas, and was sentenc
ed to from ten years to life.
John Kikos. who in December, 1914,
killed Leo Glaovich in t'nnor Brewerr
Gulch in Bisbee and who escaped, and ,n war ,in,e- an'1 vario"s otl,Pr Phases J
was captured in February, 1915, at of the whole problem of preparedness, j
Memphis, Tenn.. on March 4 entered a The committee will be required to pre-,
plea of guilty to murder in the second .P" " eo nprehensive report as soon
degree and was seutenced to serve s possible. '
from ten years to life. He made his es- Senator Chamberlain, chairman of
cape from the penitentiary at Flor- the Senate Military Committee, said
ence a few months ago and Jim not: he was confident the committee would
been heard of since. :turn out without great delay a well
W. W. Faust, who in July killed Ed-! rounded bill providing that all ele
ward Hale at Apache and who in Oc
tober was found guilty of manslaugh
ter and sentenced to serve a term of
not less than one year nor more than
five years.
Edward Scarborough, who on June
2 killed John Clinton at his ranch on
the San Pedro river near the Mexican
line and who, on December 4 was
found guilty of murder hi the second
degree and whose case is now on ap
peal to the Supreme Court. He Is
still confined to the county jail on ac
count of the Issuance of a writ of ,
probable cause by the court. An ap-
plication was recently made for bail
pending the appeal, but It was denied
by Judge Lockwood. An appeal from
this ruling has also been made and ; seems evident that considerable in
will be heard by the supreme court. jeremtp nf the building pronram for
Cal Cox, who was arrested for the 1917 i he favored. In general the
same offense as Scarborough, but was 'rtisou,ion hT n-emhers of both houses
acquitted by the jury. In this instance lhp prPVailing opinion seems to be
the court instructed the jury to bring (hgt paniels' five-year program will
in a verdict of guilty of murder in the finnv eo ,rctlch though possiblv
first degree or acquittal. ' This was
necessary, hpwever, on account of the
1 testimony that was Introduced in the.
case and reflects with no discredit on i
the officer in charge of the prosecu-j
tlon.
Felix Lopez, who in June stabbed j
and killed nn R Lua-n in Dnuelas. i
who was tried and found bullty of
murder in the first degree and was
(Continued on Page 4)
Construction of St.
Structure of Its
$4i,UUU fcdince will
Soon be Erected Near
Loretto Academy.
In keCDini; with the soirit
I if rrntruaa u liifn ia ihnran.
tensile 01 me arren uis
1 tr'.ct will be the construc
tion of th? re-.v Pi. Patrick's
Church, the lintst edifice of
Roman Cotl.olic wurs-iD in
I ail Arizona, it win. indeed.
a structure ii, which every
public-spirited c.Uzm of the
Walivn DUrlc . Mny takp a
wuitiiv rrhie. The cburcu
I will niKu as a permanent
i I1,0':'J ent t0 xh: facl tlial
j 2 Sr'nffiSrS
! finance 1 devtt-lcpn.ent but,
also, in the iraintennnce of
lisiotis and social progress.
The new St. Patrick's
Church will be located on the
lot southeast of Loretto
I Academy donted to the
church by
r
isginA
3, bu8
1 Thomas Hi
now a resident of
i Los Angele3,
formerly one of the
,ract for f"n3fuctlon of the church
'm be ar(!ed within ten days and
11 is tne intention or. those In charge
of tne P,ann t0 haVe tl,e edifice ready
i for Purposes of worship by the corn-
'"S ennstmas.
Estimating the cost of the building
without furnishings, it U evident that
the figures will approach the $4.!i,000
mark. Popular subscription has made
possible the erection of the church
and it it a tribute to the broad-minded
liberality of the residents of the War
ren District that many Protestants
have joined in the donations.
The Old English Gothic style of
1Y COORDINATE
puis ypoi
SE
Joint Congressional Commit
tee Proposed in Resolution
Introduced by Senator New
lands. Report Soon.
WASHINGTON. Jan. 29. A propo
sal to coordinate ' national defense
Feb-'throuKh a iint congressional commit
on the various bearings of army bills,;
navy plans and other aspects of na-
jtional defense at the same time.
I The senator's resocltion proposed
the committee be empowered to study'
the general scheme of national defense
tno efficiency of the present army or-'
Iganization. the advisability of compul-
guil-:Kory 8ervice. the creating of a national
Hofoaa ,.;, Iho f ,ho r.
tary schools, including the possiblo
cooneration of states, the problem of,
finding auxiliary ships for the navy .
ments of the national armv aggregate
a million or more. It is thought pro
posals fir compulsorv service or uni
versal training schools will be present
ed in seoarate bills, as few advocates
of universal service svstem are able
to satifv thomselves that either Con-ere"-.s
or tbe country is prenared for
such a radical change of policy.
Some members of the House 'Milifa
rv Committee are expected to make
vigorous efforts to couple the govern-
""ft nroduct'on of war materials with
anv grpst army increase program rec-
,oinmended. So far as the navy is con-
cer"ed there Is little to judce of the;
feflins; c.f the Home eommlMee. but it
augmented in some particulars.
ZONE FORCES AUGMENTED.
WASHINGTON. Jan. 29. Four'
companies of coast artillery and a
battalion ef field artillery and a squad-
ron nf cavalrv were ordered to the
Canal Zone in pursuance with the
'policy of strengthening the forces
there.
DEFEfl
-!
Patrick's Church Starts; Will Rival Any!
Kind In the EnVtrizona
. . . ; v iJUJori inijmri-ia
i-':hTr
---'
'
ST. PATRICK'S
. It'-
architecture will be followed in thet cognized is one of the ablest and'
construction of the church, the ex-lmokt devoted members of the Roman)
terior of which will be of mottled f Catholic priesthood in the Valentine!
brick. Red brick will be used in the! State. Holding a remarkably strons!
! Interior. Seating capacity will an-
proximate 500. Work on the under-j toners.' who recognize his ability and
structure has proceeded in a satis-1 fidelity to their, cause. Ft. Mandin.i
factory manner, volunteer laborers of J also, is exteremely popular among'
the pariah' haying faithfully devoted j the Protestants of the Warren Dis-
much time and energy to the task. ; trict.
The basement, which will be of ce
ment faced with brick,; has not yet
been constructed. ' ; '
Rev. Fr. C. Mandin. pastor of St.
Patrick's Church, modestly disclaims
credit due him for untiring efforts
which may be described as the funda
mental impetus bringing the campaign
for the erection of a new church to
a successful climax.
Fr. Mandin came to Bisbee, two
years ago. from PrescotL He is re -
r
ZEPPELIN OVER PARIS.
I
PARIS, Jan. 29. Paris- was
completely darkened in antici
pation of a Zeppelin raid. Fire
engines and squads of trumpet
ers are going through the city
sounding the alarm. Search
lights are in operation, and fhe
noise of the areoplanes is heard
in several directions. A eppe
lin was heard over the city, to
night shortly after two bombs
were dropped injuring ten.
'It was learned later that a
dozen bombs were dropped in
all. Ten were killed and thirty
wounded.
-
GERMANS CLAIM
,
I
Activity Had On French Front
when Teutons Attack. Ber
lin Claims and Paris Denies
Success of Operations.
"""v.
LONDON, Jan. 29.-The western
war front is the scene of heavy fight -
ing. the Germans having launched a
uein iiiiuru ouensive. Alter masmti
several dents in the allies' lines,
VICTORY III
TOE WEST
which were strengthened out partly the immigration authorities failed tot
by counter attacks, the Teutons yes-.connect hInl wlth tne murdtr A lon!J
terday. after heavy bombardment, as-' telegranl t0 ,ne Mexican consulate!
saulted the allied positions to the here from the governni(.nt official)
south of the river Somme. and north- bureau of information at Torreon de-,
west of Neuville in the Artois region. ' clared Genera, Trevino bad brought!
These attacks resulted, according ' order and tranquilitv in the!
to Berlin, in sweeping gains in both dl8tri(.t. Tnere was no mpn.
cases, amounting to nearly a mile and tlon of Argumedo-g rations, villa,
a half of front. More than 1100 , 0fcer,tinx nortn ot this dis,rl?t, I
prisoners and twenty-five machine, , 8aid ixty mneB we!tt of Chihuahua 1
guns were taken. i City j
The French accounts of the fighting j The nlessaRe told of the establish
to the south of the Somme differ, ment by Genera, TrPvino, of four!
materially. It is declared the Germans .nnp, in.,llHin1? th t-rritorv Bho,if !
failed in their attacks, except on th T
bank of the Somme. where they were -
able to drive a detachment of French
troops out oi tne vu.age oi r rise.
Paris asserts the attack was checked
and some of the trenches recovered.
cisewnere. no important encase-
ments have occurred recently so far
as official reports show, except In "ie -
Caucasus, where tne .Russians. 'laim
to have .scored material
against the Turks.
. t
successes
HONOR MCKINLEY'S BIRTHDAY
WASHINGTON. Jan. 29. Officials
in Washington wot carnations ia hon
or of h late President McKinleys
birthday. In the House, where Repre-
sentative Foss of Illinois delivered a
eulogy on McKinley. every member
nd employe wore the flower.
; .v
ft i a
r'':i rife--- t
jT rA. - " ' I .m
CHURCH.
i Dlace in the hearts of his own parish-l
A measure of praise is due the gen-!
eral membership of St. Patrick';
parish and. particularly, to the ladies j
who have worked untiringly to raise !
funds for the worthy object. The en-
tire Warren District rejoices in thei
successful consummation of such a
worthy project which reflects great
credit, not alone upon the Roman;
Catholics of the community but the'
general public of the Warren Dis-i
! trict
AHilEDO SAID
KILLED NEAR
Rebel Leader Said to Have!
Died of Wounds Received
in Battle With Carranza's :
Troops. Trevino Busy. j
WASHINGTON, Jan. 29. Genera: j
Argumedo. one of' the chieftains who!
moved to northern Mexico bands, af !
ter the collapse of the Villa govern- j
ment. died of wounds in a battle witTrl
Carranza troops at Torreon or Dur-J
ango. ' j
Argumedo was regarded euf one ofj
the most formidable forces Carranza;
had to deal with. Reports of his
death indicate that probably the de-'
cisive battle of the campaign of Car l
ranza to crush the rebels in the north!
has been fought. !
REPRESENTATIONS MADE.
EL PASO. -Jan. 29. The recent de '.
portation and - re-entry of Manuetj
Medinaveitla. Villa's chief of staff.!
'was made the subject of representa-!
tIong , Washington bv friends oil
, peter Keane. whose disappearance!
led t0 thp coviction tnat Keane was'
n,-,ij ijinioii.
. in i wt. i v I. .iicuiiiaiicua was uri iiiil i
,. ..!,. j Clo, !
It was added the success :
tending the movements by Trevino1
n.,.inprf . ,,i,.iIiv ami
paratlve,y tnat lhe Ione gvstem
will j
All!
'be tried south against Zapata.
the forces, opposing Carranza in the
terrUory lnciuded ln tnP fr 7.no,.
were anninilated or driVen out. it is
g(atpd
BANDITS RAID TUXPAM
WASHINGTON. Jan. 29. The re-
,newal ol Bannit rains aooui iiixpam.
Mexico, and vicinity in which lars
American and British oil properties
are located, are reported to the State
Department. It is said some oil camps
were looted. The property damage is
comparatively small and no foreigners
were killed.
X
KEYHOTE OF
WILSON'S
115
i .
' President at Cleveland. Says
I He Would Feel Guilty of
"Unpardonable Omission if
He Didn't Warn Country.
HUGE CROWD OUT IN
i SPITE OF DOWNPOUR
Criticism Made on Peace-at-Any-Price
People and Also
for Those Who Are Calling
For Big Standing Army.
CLEVELAND, Jan. 29. New
, circuuistances have arisen. Presi
dent Wilson declared today, mak
ing it absolutely necessary for the
country to prepare adequate na
tional defense.
"We are in the midst of the
world and we can not make or we
cannot alter." he said "Its whole
atmospheric and physical condi
tions are conditions of our own
life also. Therefore, as your re
sponsible servant, I must tell you
the dangers are infinite and con
stant. I should feel guilty of an un
pardonable omission If 1 did not
tell my fellow countrymen of the
new circumstances that have aris
en. "America's improvident neglect
to build merchant ships, be said in
explanation, "has left the country
dependent on other nations to car
ry our commerce. The nations are
now at war. They are all friends
of America, but art- preoccupied
with their own maintenance as a
main purpose.
"Wherever the ordinary sules of
commerce on the sea or interna
tional relationship are apt to be
thrust aside, or ignored there Is
danger of more than a critical
kind of controversy."
President Wilson spoke earlier
in Pittsburg, opening a six day
trip In the Central West on his cam
paign " for preparedness.
The necessity for quick' action was
the keynote of both' speeches. He
told of the difficulties of mainten
ing peace and upholding the hon
or of the I'nited States at tho
same timr. Two things, he said,
were told him by people coming
to the White House. One was
the people counting on him to
keep out of war, and the next in
the breath he was told, the people
were counting on him to maintain
the honor of the United Stats.
"Hav you reJlected that the time
might come when I couldn't do
both?" he asked. "Have you made
ready to stand behind the govern
ment's maintenance of the honor
of the country? Nobody doubts,
that given time enough, we can
assert any amount of force neces
sary. But when the world is on
fire, how much time do we want to
be ready? I do not believe the
fire is going to begin here but we
would he surer of it if we wer
ready for the fire."
National defense, he said, was
not a party matter. He said he waa
sorry the Issue arose in a presiden
tial campaign because of the dan
ger that politics would becloud it.
He asserted that republicans and
democrats, equally are patriotic.
He criticised both the advocate.
of peace at any price, and the ad
vocates of a large standing army.
The latter, he declared, are "coun
sellors of a source whose counsel
is a passion," and the former were
likened to the man who was "so
in love with peace that he cannot
Imagine any kind of danger. I nl
mast envy him the trance he is
in."
Thousands heard the speech, de
spite the downpour as he address
eh the overflowing meeting from
the balcony of a hotel. ,
ITALY EXPLAINS GUNS
WASHINGTON. Jan. 29 Italy has
given assurances the guns mounted on
the I'ncr Verona were for defensive
pttrpisp and the New York customs
authorises were Instructed to clear
the ship. The liner America also was
ordered permitted to clear.
li-IIPPING BILL ON MONDAY
WASHINGTON. Jan. 29. The New
sdiuiniftration shipping bill, framed
io meet the views of differing Demo
crats will be introduced In the Houe
.ui ury
