7
~L.
The Intelligent, common sense
workingmen prefer to deal with the
problems of today, with which they
must ^contend if they want to make
advancements, rather than to deal
with a picture or a dream.—-Gom
pers.
IILITUVI
.5.
Set Aside Every Safeguard of In­
dividual Liberty in West
Virginia Strike.
MILITARY COMMISSION
SUBSTITUTED FOR COURTS
State Guard Order Severely Con­
demned in Senate by U. S.
Senator Borah.
WASHINGTON, June 1.—In a
speech in the United States senate on
national defense. Senator Borali
showed how constitutional guarantees
were ignored by the West Virginia
militia during the recent strike of
union miners in that state.
"I read you the order," said Sena­
tor Borah, "|which was issued by the
national guard of Wests Virginia, in
which the constitution of the state,
the constitution of the United States,
and the statutes were suspended until
such time as the adjutant general of
the state of West Virginia should de­
clare that they were again in effect.
It abrogates all statutory and consti­
tutional law and sets at naught every
safeguard of individual liberty. Here
is the order:
Might Impose Death Penalty.
The military commission is
substituted for the criminal
courts of the district covered by
the martial-law proclamation,
and all offenses against the civil
law as they existed prior to the
proclamation—
observe that—
all offenses against the civil laws
as they existed prior to the pro­
clamation of November 15, 1912,
sholl be regarded as offenses
under the military law, and as a
punishment therefor\the military
commission can impose such sen­
tences, either lighter or heavier
than those imposed tinder the
civil law, as in their judgment
the offender may merit.
2. Cognizances of offenses
against the civil law as they ex­
isted prior to November 15, 1912,
committed prior to the declara­
tion of martial law, and unpun­
ished, will be taken by the mili­
tary commission.
"In other words, when the strike
occurred the adjutant general of the
state ppoceded to suspend those
fundamental principles embodied in'
state and national constitutions upon
which this Republic and these states
are organized. The Tight of trial by
jury, the right to have a complaint
presented against you upon the oath
of some responsible citizen, the right
to have an Attorney and to produce
witnesses, every semblance of com­
mon-law right was abrogated and an­
nulled by the action of the adjutant
general. Was it a mere official an­
nouncement? Did it die with the
ostentatious display of power upon
the part of the adjutant general? Not
at all. After the riots had 'been going
on for some 10 days and difficulties
occurred and shootings had taken
place between the rioters and the
militia and one or two what they
called battles had occurred, they pro­
ceeded, then, after having finished
their shooting and their clubbing, to
organize a court-martion, composed
of the men who had been using the
guns, and proceded to try the rioters,
Continued on Page 2.
POOR "TRUST BUSTED"
COMPANY PROSPEROUS
NEW YORK, June 1.—The in­
creased price of gasoline and other
petroleum products is reflected in a
sensational increase in the earnings of
the Standard Oil company of New
York, for 1915, disclosed in it annual
statement.
I The net earnings reported by the
company total $15,761,663, an inrease
I of« $8,025,744 over the previous year.
The surplus for the year was $9,761,
633, as compared with $1,736,000 in
I the presedifcg year. The total surplus
increased from $16,701,591 to $26
463,254.
St. Paul Painters Win.
ST. PAUL/, Minn., June 1.—The
Painters' union reports that it is en
forcing its new wage scale, which calls
for an increase of 5 cents an hour.
(By Stoughton Cooley.)
Irregularity of employment in sea
jsonable occupations has been under
(investigation by the United States
Department of Labor, with a view to
finding some means of dovetailing
I the occupations in a way to furnish a
(Steadier demand for labor.
The current reports on the garment
industries shows that in one estab­
lishment four-fifths of those em­
ployed during the year had less than
|ten weeks employment. The pay rolls
Jn the dress and waist industry in the
•dullest week were only one-half of
what they were on an average week,
and, barely one-third that of the bus­
iest week.
Others Complaining, Too.
Af similar complaint is heard in
(Other occupations. Though the pay
Imay be reasonably good, the workers
jednnot put in full time. This hard
jshop has been overcome partly in
fsome occupations, notably in the
ibuilding trades, by advancing wages
-'i V: '.'i*2VrU
QSy
THE
IMMIGRANT
MORE THMI TALKS
Disappointment of Immigrants
Turn Their Good Motives
Into Spirit of Revolt.
LOS ANGELES, Cal., June 1.—In
an address before the convention of
California Social Agencies, Secretary
Scharrenberg of the state federation
of labor told the delegates that the
trade union movement was the most
potent factor in the Americanizing of
immigrants and that these aliens
need more than patriotic talks.
Mimls and Bodies Weakened.
"Herded into the mills and mines,
working under conditions that
weaken the body and destroy the
mind, living in slums, shacks and
bunkhouses, the immigrant's last con­
dition is worse than his first," said
the unionist.
"Because he is disappointed in his
hopes and ambitions the immigrant
turns from the spirit of Americanism
and surrenders to the spirit born of
the actual conditions of his life, a
spirit of revolt against society.
"To meet this danger, numerous
expedients have been devised. These
methods~tiave for their object the dis­
semination of patriotic sentiment by
appeal to nation history and tradi­
tion, by teaching politics and civics
and by various exercises calculated to
inspirt reverence for 'the flag' and to
strengthen devotion to the things of
which that emblem is the symbol.
"The patriotic address, the flag
raising exercises, the 'welfare work,'
however well meant and however
successful their appeal to the emo­
tions, leave untouched the real need
of the case, namely, the need to real­
ize in practical ways the promised
opportunity for liberty and full de­
velopment upon the highest plane of
social justice and equality.
Union Only Help.
"|The labor union is the only move­
ment of fundamental reform in the
conditions of labor, the only move­
ment that makes for Americanization
by making for the establishment in
the daily lives of the people of. that
condition which we regard as the es­
sence of Americanism, the opportun­
ity for full social justice.
"What a hollow mockery is all talk
of Americanization unless the "Am
ericanizers' see to it that sufficient
leisure is provided to enable the im­
migrant to take advantage of the edu­
cational opportunities offered. In
this particular field of endeavor—
shortening the workday—the lab»r
union has been the pioneer and has
maintained the leadership right up to
date."
SHINGLE WEAVERS IT
International Officers Report
Steady Success In Effort to
Enforce Wage Scale.
SEATTLE, Wash., June 1.—Offi­
cers of the International Shingle
Weavers' union report steady gains
in their effort to enforce a wage scale
adopted at their last convention.
Compared with the past few years,
shingle mills throughout the north­
west are prosperous, but despite this
fact the shingle weavers have been
forced to call numerous strikes to re­
mind mill owners of their last year's
promise to pay the 1907 rates. The
mill owners have been pleading that
the high price of logs makes this im­
possible. The workers reply that
flour and meat are also included in
the high price list and that wages
must be increased. As the shingle
weavers have reorganized their union
and are thoroughly united the em­
ployers are paying the new rates,
rather than see their mills idle.
(By Stoughton Cooley.) 1 durinsr t.lift pAnRfmpHAM c?oooam
Vol.23. No. 43. DLLL TII AND SUPERIOR, JUNE 3,1916.
Potent Factor
Aliens
*3ial.
Trade Ufif
In AmSbC
Says Unu^
CONDITIONS IN MILLS AND
MINES SAP THEIR ENERGY
A
during the construction season to a
point that will tide the men over the
slack season.
But is regularizing ancf standardis­
ing employment a desirable end in it­
self? To people receiving less than
a living wage it is quite important
that the income be continuous, but
the end sought is wages, not employ­
ment, and if fewer hours or a less
number of days, can be made to yield
the same return, might not the sea­
sonable occupations be desirable?
Labor Goes to Florida
In other words, may not the Chi­
cago paperhanger who works hard
during the season and spends «his
winters in Florida fishing and hunt­
ing Ed.) "be better off than if he
worked throughout the year for the
same pay? Work undoubtedly is a
good thing. It hardens the muscles,
stimulates the circulation and
strengthens the will, but, like all
good things, it becomes an evil when
indulged in immoderately.
The street car industry has been
Senator Moses E. Clapp delivered a remarkable ad­
dress in Duluth on Memorial Day to the veterans of the
Grand Old Army of the Republic. The address was re­
markable because of the fact that it breathed through­
out the spirit of true democracy.
It is refreshing indeed to hear at this time such sen­
timents as were expressed by Senator Clapp. While a'
large number of our people are going mad over pre­
paredness and running wildly over the border-line of
militarism, Senator Clapp steps to the front and sounds
a warning to the men that gave their all to preserve the
republic and to maintain the ideals of a democracy.
Senator Clapp and The Labor World are not identi­
fied with the same political organization, but we are not
very far apart on questions of principle. Senator Clapp
has a vision. He is a true patriot. He is associated
with no interest that is seeking to profit at the ex­
pense of the people. In the Senate of the United States
he is trying his best, and most times he has succeeded,
as much as could be expected of any man, to represent
the best interests of all the people of Minnesota and of
the country.
Senator Clapp's Memorial Day speech has been pub-
lished in full in the daily newspapers. It is too long
ANOTHER EXAMPLE OF
TRADE UNION RESULTS
BALTIMORE, June 1.—Ten years
ago the hair spinners of this city
were working 10 hours a day for $10
a week. They organized and affili­
ated as a local trade union to the
American Federation of Labor.
Through agitation they have made
continued progress, and have just
signed a contract with the William
•»__
standardized to the last degree. The
men work the same in winter as in
summer, upon holidays and Sundays
the same as week days. Yet this is
hardly an occupation to be held up. as
an example of our industrial achieve­
ments. The motorman or conductor
may lay off a day, it is true, but only
with the loss of time, and When he
is confronted with the necessity of
paying 30 or 35 cents an hour for his
own time he is very apt to look upon
it as a luxury to be indulged in by
those richer than himself.
Reducing Hours of Labor.
There has long been a tendency to
cut down the hours of labor, but
there seems to be no disposition to
cut down the number of days. If it
is good to have an eight-hour day,
why not a forty-week day? Why
should it be looked upon as a mis­
fortune when labor is not employed
throughout the year?
It has been the boast of our politi­
cians and statesmen, our. scientists
TOR SOCIAL JUSTICE. ECONOMIC REFORM AND POLITICAL PROGRESS
OF PRESENT DAY DANGERS TO REPUBLIC
from
to reproduce in this issue of The Labor World, but there
is contained in it so much food for thought that we are
pleased to publish many of the most striking sentences
which it contained:
"While you left us the priceless legacy of a re-United
Republic, there came with that legacy another problem
which your thinning ranks sadly admonish us cannot
be solved by you, but must be solved by those who come
after."
"This is the problem we inherited from you, whether
we can preserve that virility of citizenship that spirit,
as distinguished from the mere form of free institutions
that genuine liberty which involves a justice and equal­
ity for all."
"To do this, we have to meet that tendency-to decay
incident to the extremes of abject poverty on the one
hand, and the excess of wealth on the other, those twin
forces which ever lead to a weak and degenerated citi­
zenship we have to meet that greed and its attendant
lust for power to support its demands, which ever seeks
to subordinate the hollow form for the real spirit of
free institutions and enslaves the energy of mind and
body under the guise of an over-lauded, but unreal free­
dom we have to meet those forces which thrive upon the
destruction of the morals of a people, for immorality
and vice are incompatible with a strong and virile citizen­
ship."
"As human progress has ever keRt.jace^Ufe of the Fittest.-'
broadening of the human equation, as a force in govern­
ment, it follows that the forces which weaken and de­
moralize citizenship, and subordinate the energies of the
many to the purposes of the few must, to accomplish
their purpose, destroy the real spirit of free institutions
and leave only their shadow."
"The force which has always been arrayed against
progress and the broadening of rights, has always sought
to minimize the human equation with which it has to
deal, and hence has ever been opposed to the spirit of
real democracy* and well it might be, for a genuine
democracy, one in fact as well as in form, is the surest
guarantee of the morals of a people ess.ential to vigor­
ous citizenship, and the surest guarantee of that justice
and equality which lies not only at the foundation of
human rights, but is the basic principle upon which real
national greatness must rest."
"In the establishment of a real democracy we must
meet the same force, that is, the same lust for power,
which so sullenly retreated before the historic advance
which led to free government."
"In the old struggle were th^ battle-ax and spear,
later the cannon and musket, the scaffold and dungeon,
while in this new struggle is involved that respectability
which has always been the shield of reaction, the glitter
and glamor of the dominion over property its supposed
power to withhold or bestow benefaction its dwarfing of
courage and enslavement of the mipd."
"Already we have in this country too many who feel
Wilkins company which raise wages
10 per cent and improved working
conditions. The rate is now $18 a
week for a nine-hour day. These
gains have all been made without a
suspension of work.
LABOR FORWARD WORKERS
MAKE STEADY GAINS
LANSING, Mich., June 1.—As-a
result of a "labor forward" campaign
the following organizations have been
recently formed in this city: Ma­
Shorter Year as Well as Shorter Day Are Essential for Mind and Body
and moralists that this is the me­
chanical age. Man has subdued na­
ture and harnessed its forces. Steam,
electricity,v the internal combustion
engine and the myriads of machines
and instruments dqvised to. increase
the power of the human hand, enable
the workers to turn out such stupen­
dous amounts of goods that mer­
chants are compelled to scour the
earth for markets—even to the point
of fighting for them.
Why Any Unemployed?
Yet in a free labor market, where
men may go from one occupation to
another, the street car motorman and
conductor find it necessary to report
for duty at the same hour 365 days in
the year!
But the' search for foreign markets
for our. surplus goods by no means
measures the full increase in our
power of production, for there are
many would-be workers unemployed,
many more are laboring to poor ad­
vantage. and vast resources of notyre
that the few should sit around the banquet board heaped
sb high that some crumbs must fall, that the gathering
of such crumbs be regarded as a privilege bestowed
upon the many. There are too many who, in fear and
trembling, accept the crumbs forgetful of the basic fact
that wealth is the product of the activities of all, al­
though its gatherings may be due to the activities of the
few."
"No great nation ever fell before external forces un­
til first weakened by internal forces, in all ages a fav­
orite instrument in ^he hands of that power which strug­
gled against the advancing spirit of liberty was the daz­
zling picture of foreign conquest, ever so effectively em­
ployed to deaden the sensibilities of a people to the
wrong and oppression visited upon them."
"Proud of our influence in the world-wide sphere of
thought, purpose and development, as we have the right
to be, let us not make the mistake of those who have
gone before, but realize that our mission to the world
and our duty to the world, grand and splendid as it may
be, is secondary after all, to our mission in the develop­
ment of a true democracy at home, and a duty to our­
selves in preserving our institutions from those causes
which can be traced the wreck and ruin of empire
in the past."
"So too, of our boasted world-wide, industrial
triumph. It may justly appeal to our pride to be told
that the products of our industrial activities can be found
everywhere, indicating the coming of a world-wide in­
dustrial supremacy, but such pride, laudable as it is,
must not blind us to conditions prevailing in the great
centers of industry."
"We cannot still the voice of protest, nor conceal
the wreckage of humanity. We cannot efface the re­
sentment born of industrial conflict, silenced for the
time only by the show of armed force, merely by the
boast of a world-wide industrial supremacy.*'
"If we would, preserve the real spirit of free institu­
tions, if we would preserve democracy in its real spirit—
justice to all—we must realize that where- there is an
injustice, there is a human and not an abstract respon­
sibility for suclf wrong or injustice."
"The very fundamental of democracy is the right
of all to exist, with equal privilege and opportunity. If
we. are to reap the benefits of that human association
called 'government/ all must participate in the making
and administration of, its policy."
"If we are to lift ourselves above the level of animal
life, if we are to recognize that one man has a right
wfcich another must respect, we must abandon the cry
wJSfch is the keynote of the mere brute existence the
"A genuine democracy must be found in the genesis
ojE man's struggle for the form of free government."
"We must recognize in this straggler that it is a
struggle for humanity. We must recognize that no man
is good enough to be permitted to constitute himself
the guardian of public welfare that as free government
is for all, it must be by all. We must recognize that
man was no more created to serve a sacrifice to inordi­
nate greed and unrestrained commercialism, than he was
created to serve as a sacrifice to royal pomp and ambi­
tion."
"For selfish greed we must substitute patriotism
and then we will discover that man, in the concrete is
just as capable of establishing and maintaining a genu­
ine democracy, as he was of establishing the form of
free government."
"If there is a single chapter in our country's history
which any patriot would wish to have forgotten, that
chapter does not record a mistake of the American peo­
ple, but records the abuse of powe^, or the betrayal of
democracy at the hands of the few."
"The opponents of democracy are fond of asserting
that for the evils of democracy we are asking for more
democracy. This is a false assertion. We would dis­
tinguish between the evil of a system, if it has any, and
those evils which are foreign to it, and opposed to its
best purposes, and find lodgement in it only through -the
instrumentalities of and betrayal by the force opposed
to the system itself."
chinists, chauffeurs ?nd garage men,
painters and paper hangers, plumb­
ers and steam fitters Building
Trades Council* Women's Union
Label league, Junior, Trades union,
lathers and plasterers.
It is' believed that the state-wide
campaign for 45,000 signatures to the
petition for an anti-injunction law,
to be voted on this fall bjr the peo­
ple, will result in securing twice the
required number. The Detroit feder­
ation of labor inaugurated this move­
ment.
remain undeveloped. Were it not for
the needless burdens and restrictions
placed upon industry by law, produc­
tion would be enormously increased.
Then why this feverish desire to work
so long and so hard?
Whether or not the demand of the
trainmen for an eight-hour day is
presented in the best form, is not the
demand itself reasonable? If men
are always to work the same number
of hours pi year, with an advance in
pay only as the cost of living ad­
vances—if, in short, their net earn­
ings are not to increase and they are
to have no more wealth or leisure,
what is there in all our boasted pro­
gress for the laborers the great mass
of mankind?
Only As Beast of Burden?
Surely few will have the temerity
to claim that progress is only for the
handful of privileged persons.
Is a man to be considered only as
a beast of burden, to be driveii to the
limit of endurance? is modern pro?
Right of Employer to Carry Com­
pensation Insurance Consid­
ered by Ohio Courts*
SUPPORT GIVEN BY
UNIONS AND EMPLOYERS
Manufacturers'- Attorney
clares Act Does Not Conflict
With State Constitution*
COLUMBUS, Ohio, June 1.—Sec­
tion 22 of the Ohio workingmen's
compensation law permits an .em­
ployer to carry his own compensation
insurance on proof that he possesses
sufficient financial resources to pro­
tect employes. Private insurance com­
panies are attacking this feature of
the law, together with other provi­
sions of the enactment.
Considered By Courts.
The question is how being consid­
ered by the state supreme court, and
attorneys for the state federation of
labor are defending the law. Daniel
J. Ryan, general counsel for the Ohio
Manufacturers' association, appearing
before the court ate "a friend of the
court," called attention to what is
commonly known as the "general
welfare" amendment to the state con­
stitution, which was adopted at the
same time the people voted in favor
of the workmen's compensation
amendment.
The "general welfare" amendment
empowers the legislature to "provide
for the comfort, health, safety and
general welfare of all employes," and,
continues this amendment, "no other
provision of the constitution shall
impair or limit this power."
Attorney Ryan told the court that
independent of the amendment to the
constitution which specifically auth­
orized compensation, the workmen's
compensation law, as passed by the
legislature, is still valid under the
"general welfare" constitutional
amendment. While indicating his
disapproval of -the latter amendment,
because of its sweeping nature, he
said:
"This section is extremely radical
and far-reaching, but it is in the con­
stitution and' cannot be ignored. Its
purpose is to give 'the- legislature
power to pass humane laws in con­
formity with modern industrial de­
velopment,-.and under it any law hav­
ing for its object the 'general wel­
fare' of all employes Is" valid," provid­
ing it is not against the federal con­
stitution."
Uniformity of law.
In answer to the claim that section
22 is not uniform in its operation, the
attorney-said:
"Two men have committed a bail­
able offense one is able to give bond,
the other is not one goes free until
his trial, the other is committed to
jail. This is not a discrimination, and
yet it requires financial ability to give
•bond to secure liberty. Two men are
elected to office one can give the
bond, the other cannot the one who
gives the bond is inducted into office,
the other, who cannot, forfeits his
right thereto."
Killing of Striker at Tiffin, Ohio,
Causes 700 More Men to
Quit Jobs,
TIFFIN, Ohio, June 1—Four strike
guards employed by the Webster
Manufacturing company have been
arrested in connection with the kil­
ling of Albert Latona, a striker, and
the wounding of two other persons.
As a result of the assault toy these
thugs 700 employes, who have here­
tofore refused to strike, have joined
the union iron molders, who ar^ at­
tempting to enforce a shorter work
day demand. The company declined
to confer with its iron molder and
imported strike-breakere and guards.
The city is in a ferment as a result.
gress to mean nothing more to him
than the sweeping by of the few?
Science and invention, though they
have devised a multitude of machines
to save labor, have been unable to
save the laborer. In an autocratic
state of society, where those in au­
thority think they have discharged'
their duty by permitting the mass of
the people to toil for them on their
land, the hours of labor may toe
measured
vby
human endurance, and
the wages limited to an amount that
will permit the laborer to reproduce
his' kind. But such a condition will
not be tolerated long in a democracy.
Don't Think For Themselves.
The reason why, more has not al­
ready ben done is because the people
are so recently from autocratic lands
that they still think in the terms of
their former masters. They are dazed
by their political freedom, and move
timidly. But this will not be for long.
They are discovering how and from
whence the great unearned incomes
are derived,' And what is of still
An° worBl«
moTcont to
flnitlyv 1 be ^most effective, must be conducted
the workers themselves in the fa­
irest of the workers. It will not
be dominated' by the so-called in­
tellectuals or butters-in.—Gompers.
TWO CENTS.
Paternal Scheme of Harvester
Company Falls Flat in Only
Four Months,
DREAMS OF MILLENNIUM
SHATTERED BY LOW WAGES
Masked Purpose of Company to
Rob Employes Met by Strike
of Workmen.
CHICAGO, June 1.—The Union
Leader, official magazine of the
Amalgamated Street Car Men's union,
has this to say ot "profit sharing"
schemes:
Wonderful Philanthropy.
"Events at the plant of the Inter­
national Harvester company the past
week go to show the failure of the
so-called profit sharing plan to bring
justice to the workers. Two daya be­
fore last Christmas the daily press
announced a wonderful philanthropy
on the part of this company. They
were going to reward continuous serv­
ice and assist employes to become
Stockholders in the company and
share its profits. A plan was pub­
lished giving the employes the privi­
lege of subscribing for a profit-shar­
ing certificate from $50 to $1,000, to
be paid in sums of not less than $1
nor more than $25 a month, to be de­
ducted from the wages and to mature
not later than January 2, 1921. Each
employe subscribing for such certifi­
cate and having earned $100 or more
during 1915 was to be credited with 1
per cent of his wages for that year,
to be applied to his account, interest
at 5 per cent on payments and credits
to be added.
"Now this great paternal feature of
the Harvester company was heralded
as a Christmas gift to their employes
and a panacea for all labor ills. The
employes were to at once become
stockholders and share in the great
profits of this institution. They would
be transformed from common work­
ers into capitalists and visions of the
millennium were reflected from the
publicity this wonderful plan re­
ceived.
"A brief four months has shattered
the dream and the employes of the
Harvester company find themselves]
worse off than before, for living costs]
a so a in a a a re in
adequate. A strike has resulted and
the profit sharing plan has failed.
""•'Such plans are
"tout means of rob
bing employes of compensation that'
is due them. Again, the plans are1]
intended to make the employes loyal
to the company, for while they arej
deluded into the belief that they are!
stockholders, the theory is that they
will refrain from organizing and keep!
silent on a wage issue. The theory
fails to work out in practice, how-1
ever, as shown by the numerous]
strikes throughout the country where
so-called profit sharing -plans have'
•been instituted.
Scheme To Deceive.
"Prdf it ^sharing schemes are a de­
ception. They do not benefit the
great 'bulk ot employes, who are paid
an insufficient wage to live decently
and are therefore unable to purchase
certificates. The patriotism of em-'
ployers is a benevolent despotism and I
operates for low wages, poor working
conditions and restriction of freedom.
The only salvation for the worker is
the bona fide trade union."
WOMAN SAYS SOMETHINGS
BETTER THAN A MAN CAN
Sometimes a woman can say some
things very much better than a man,
as, for example, Mary A. Dean, a
prohibition candidate for alderman in
the recent Chicago election, who put
it after this maner:
"Chicago could "better afford to
build a handsome club on the Lake
Shore drive, and support in Idleness
the politicians enabled to eat at the
public trough through the carefuly
worked-out spoils system, than to
have these men promote" inefficiency
and waste as: city employees."
Gain After Short Strike.
LEE, Mass., June 1.—After a three
weeks' strike employes of the Smith
Paper company have raised wages 20
per cent for men and 15 per cent for
women.
greater importance, they ax* discov­
ering how they themselves, inay stop
this enonomic leak.
When the men and the women who
do the work of the world are fully
conscious of their condition and of
their power, they will not be content
with an eight-hour day, but will add
a forty Week year. The vacation en*
joyed by the school teachers, which,
enables them to renew their strength
in recreation, and expand their minds
with travel and study, will.be within
the reach of all who labor.
Is It Any Wonder?
Is it any.wonder that we have so
many sodden-minded individuals who
turn to brigandage and murder? We
can produce skyscrapers, steamships,'
aeroplanes, and all manner of won­
derful things. It is time lor us to
give more attention to producing
human beings and one of the first
things to do is to raise wages and
shorten the hours of labor, so that
those who toil may have time and
opportunity f6r self culture.
"I
