V:
V
JVb Stampede to Roosevelt, Says Old Guard
WEATHER Thundr thowert to-niahl; 8undy fa MS
-TOTVOV
"Circnl.it ion Hooks Open to All." I
"Circulation Books Open to AIL"
PRICE ONE CENT.
CV) right, iniil, hr The rrc rnblUlilog
Co. (The fw York World).
NEW YORK, SATURDAY, JUNE 3, 1916.
12
PAGES
PRICE ONE CENT.
' . J .1 j- ' - .A A
i-mt rr 1 1 i -rr
r
WWML
litem
M
8 OF KAISER'S BIG WARSHIPS
BOTTLED UP BY THE BRITISH
i , -
ENGLISH DIED ALMOST TO A MAN
ON FIVE LARGEST SHIPS LOST
British Warship Lost in Battle in North Sea;
Admiral Who Died and Commander of Fleet
NH am- B
Utfl MW'HWU V
EkIIc9m
- - ..
(?tar A TL. U
HORACE L.A HOOD , R N. QUEXN .tfACy, TON NAG El 27pOO, SPELE.D, 35". 7 KNOTS, El(HT 1314. IN.GUNS
BULL MOOSE W LL TAKE MAN
10 CAN FILL T. R.'S SHOES
I3ut Progressives in Chicago
Express Doubts as to Wheth
er Such Quuiiiiate Exists.
'rwilt to Tlx- limine WiwM I
CUICAliO, Juno 3. Tho I'roKre.sslvo
Party Is rea.lv at any time to necept
a llcpubllcan candidate, who "can till
tlio plnen of Theodore. Itoosovelt."
Up to this time, huwever, tho lie
publican: have shown no unanimity
un anv candidate, nor huvo tliey pro
duced n man w ho, In the opinion of
the Progressives, can 1111 Hoosovcll's
plttPO.
Tills stand was outlined to-day ly
CitorBO W. I'erklns. Hull Moose chief
tain. Jl emphasized the. 1'iotfres
Blvcs' wlllinEtier.s tu anecept a Hpul
llcan candidate, hut emphasized oven
more tho bdlnf th.it lloosmelt Is tho
only man.
"We btund on our January state
ment," I'orkliih said. -That does not
necessarily mean lioosneit. Hut the
word 'necessarily' of necessity Im
plies that some, oilier man must he
produced who can fill lioosevelt's
place. Hut there, has been no unani
mity of opinion on any Republican
candidate, other than Hormevelt."
William II. Chllds nf l.rooklsn, N.
V., 1'iOKiesslve leader, interrupted
Perkins to suite tliat durum tho past
three months th sentiment for
lloosevelt hud crown to practical
unanimity.
Perkins declared that only 'iifotmal
conferences had been held with tho
Republican leaders so far. lie ln-
(Continued on Third Case.)
SOB WIS ON BOTH SIDES
I00K PART IN GREAT BATTLE
Tillman Wants Naval Bill l:n-j
larged Daniels Takes I.es-1
son From North Sea Battle. !
CONVENTION
ANNOUNCEMENT
The following Famous Writers and
Public Men will report the Rcpub
ican National Convention nt Chi.
ca.o for The New York World:
WILLIAM ALLEN WHITE
IDA M. TAR BELL
WILLIAM JENNINGS URYAN
GEORGE W. PERKINS
Beginning Next Monday, une 5.
WASIIINOTON. June 3. Chairman
Tillman of the Senato Naval Commit
tee announced to-day that ho would
lead a f.sht In tho .Senate to change
tho naval appropriation bill so as to
provide for six battle cruisers and
two dreadnoughts. Instead of five bat
tie cruisers and no battleships, ns in
the bill passed by the House yester
day. Senator Tillman explained that his
action was not based on tho nuwil
etiifaKement In tho North Sea, because
he had not received sulllelent data to
pick out lesons It would teach.
"Hut my mind Is made up this tar,"
said he. "I believe tho Mouse bill
should bo materially enlarged, und I
believe tho Senato Is of tho same
opinion. I am In favor of six battle
cruisers and two dreadnoughts."
Senator Tillman also favors a (lotlllu
of dirigibles.
Construction by the Navy 'ifpivi
ment of dlrlKible aircraft ot th" .,.,.
pelln t.p" may be urKcd by Severn v
Daniels In the near future as a result
of the No. th Sea battle and the Mow
lies of commercial develonments oi
such construction In thlt country.
I Naval ollleers here afrrced to-diy that
I the de'alls thus l.ir received nf tl
battle pointed to the superior scout -i
ln a till It y of the Crrman tleet tin ou- i
I Its '.enpi btw ,in . iiictor which :ielpr,
I lo Inlllct heavy losf.es upon the Hilt
, ish.
Mr. l).inie)H to-day apirov(.t 1'ie
provls'on of the I Inline Nnvi.l Hill
Kl i riJT a blatil;et appioprl.illo i of
tuoie than $3,000,000 tor iviu'ni
without ende.ivorlnir to spi'clfc tl.e
ntuiibe.h or types ol aircraft K,
i .lCfllllfi.
A inonsier aeroplane, designed b
niuil i niiMrtirtoro :s now belns bu.lt
i the Vow aid here, an I IL.tilili
" ll, ..ted hi' tiee,.,l , w oil I, I ! n, -i"
iini mote 'ie iv In o ONper -ini
ntiil rur t ton o! .ilnra.it of at'
tvi-' -i if ,i l"iiu.iti it ' lopment h to
follow
I (Kor Raeino Rssulti See Pano 2.)
(Cntriti on Pag 9.)
British Admiralty Says the Marlborough Got
Into a Nest of Torpedoes Dodged
Three, Hit by the Fourth.
LONDON, June The following statement was issued this after
noon by the Admiralty:
"The British los in men was very large owing to the fact that
three Britih battle cruisers blew up from interior explosions."
"Submarines took part on both sides. The British ship Marlborough
got into a nest of submarine torpedoes. She dodges three of them, but
was hit by a fourth; but despite the damage inflicted the Marlborough
was able to make port.
"Admiral BeattyN call for help was sent to the British main fleet
and brought Admiral JeHicoe and an unknown number of British battle
ships to the scene.
-The main battle I hen ensucil, wllli Ilrltlsh hutlleshlps In
direct fiiBMKt'inrnts nlth Herman Imlllesliliis dreadnought against
dtenilnoiicrht. lhirlnu' this part of (lie buttle the Cermuiis lest (no
dreadnoughts mid the Ilrltlsh none.
"Admiral Beatty was then forced to retrace his coure Id the open
sea. Thus the situation developed wiih the Herman battleships and battle
cruisers fighting agahw British battle cruisers.
"When Admiral Beatty endeavored to cut oiV the Germans from re
treat he discovered the tleet of German battleship on his left, where
they had been hiding behind German battle cruisers in a mist.
"At this stage of the battle the British were out-numbered by the
Germans.
"The German had no surpries. There were no even:een inch
guns in evidence. There wj, only one Zeppelin, being the l.-J-l. and ii
was injured and retired.
"Tims the four phases neic comprised, llrst of tilnilral
lleattj's attempt to etit off the Hermans; second, his forced re.
tlremenl to (he open sea by appearance of the Herman battle,
ships, v,lten the llrllMi were outnumbered fr a time; third, the
an hut of the main HrltMi lleet under Admiral .lelllcoe, hen It
became n dreailiioiiuht atralnst drenilnoiicht ; and, fourth, a retire
ment of Hie Herman forces In (he face of the llrllMi ntlael.."
ARMY BILL SIGHED KING GEORGE REPLIES
BY THE PRESIDENT! TO JELLIGOE'S MESSAGE
Wash i i i'l'nN. juin 3. I'ii i. lent
Wilson to-di niste d t.i" .'.run He.
oi Bain..ii ion Hill Hi'" of the irupiirt
ant p"epare l.ii ss ine.isure.s passed bv
1 'otlKtess durltljf 111.' ple.ient Heon.
LONDON, June 3 i .,n.o. n .
for I no I ii of pni son"' I, hat more p'
rietH that II,.. foi-n.in It.- -t v,i . t
Inclined I,. f,(if, Ihf, ciu .linte; t i. V
professed l,i de.iri ." m.s tlir .
T,e i..den. s.ud.ei ,i,e i euro-,,,,;,:;;;,,. y, ;,'.;:" nI,'!",;:,i-
lullv for moi than o eeU tla
lie )mm i pin I'e'oiialn to Senator """s afe ;v,m sioit mi i-f.pnnse
Sm.ih of South C.olma. v.no .. - ' J,V., k''I") Vi'nT"1 "' "" J !'," "
it (ora ouvulr. I day,
German Battleship Westfalen Now
Reported Among Lost Rumor
That Big Dreadnought Hinden
burg Was Also Sunk 20 Ger
man Torpedo Boats May Be Lost.
LONDON, June 3. Eight German battle cruisers have been
cut off from their base and have been bottled up in Danish
waters by Admiral Beatty, who was in command of the first
British fleet that engaged the Kaiser's warships on Wednesday.
The Danish authorities ordered the German ships to leave
by noon to-day or intern.
The announcement of Admiral lleattj's coup nits made this afternoon
by tint Admiralty, nlileli added:
"Me vtent out vtllliln enemy miters seek I in; it llu'ht. Our
Inferior lleet ciicukciI the entire Herman buttle lleel, forced them
to return to harbor and to gltc up any plan of action they may
hmo contemplated."
It was added that the latest reports recelted from Admiral .lelllcoe
and Vice Admiral lleatty had caused a feeling of elation amour, natal
ofticers.
The Herman dreadnought Westfalen, of 18,(11)0 Inns-, has been added to
the steadily cronlnc list of essels sunk, according to a (tireless despatch
front llerlln this afternoon, which states that the Herman Admiralty admits
the loss of this warship.
Previous unoflirlnl reports said that the new dreadnought lllinleiilmr,
-7,0(10 tons, which wllh her 17-liuh (funs was the pride of the Herman
nary, was also sunk. There Is no Herman report lo confirm I tils.
When the IlrltKsh battleship' Queen Mary, which was tho slum ship of
the llrlllsli navy, went down she carried all on hoard with the exception
of eight.. . Her complement was about 1,0110 ofticers and ineu.
All m re lost on board the battle cruiser liidefullu'iiblr (Mio men) and
the nrmored cruiser lllack I'rlnce (7.VI). Willi the exception nf her cap
tain, a lieutenant und three men, none uas sated on the battle cruiser
Invincible (7."ll men). Hear Admiral Horace Hood cent dovui tvllh the
Invincible.
Hear Admiral Arbiillinnt an lust nlth the Defence (7.V. men), on
lilcli every man went dimn.
It was admitted this afternoon that the Ilrltlsh losses' in the battle
totalled more than MOD ofiicer.s and men. The Hermans are said to admit
losses of .1,01)0,
The loss in British ships is placed at fourteen, with the German loss
figured anywhere between ten and thirty vessels.
The highest figure fur the German losses is based on the statements
of men on a German torpedo boat arriving at Copenhagen, who say
that twenty German torpedo boats were lost.
It was officially announced to-day that the dreadnought Warble,
which the Germans reported sunk, and the ember Marlborough, which
was declared to have been torpedoed, were safe in lurbor.
The Warspite was damaged by gunfire, but e;caped torpedoo.
In addition to the sinking of the Hindenburg, the cruiser iilbing ol
the Kaiser's fleet is abo reported lost.
In the list of the British destroyers lost the Admiralty to-da entered
the names ot the Shark, Nomad and Nestor.
CKIIM.US DESTROYERS ACTIVE IS SICIIT ATTACK.
A feature of the batile was organized night attacks by llolillas. of
German destroyers on British ships. They were comparable to infantry
attacks following a heavy artillery bombardment.
They began with the fading of the light and continued lor some
time in the darkness, but were similarly incllective. Not a Millie
torpedo struck home I nun this source, while the casualties among the
attackers were heavy.
Only eleven British battleships, fired guns. 'I hose engaged com
prised two divisions, one ol tour ships and the other ol seven. S)mc "I
the latter vere only partialis engaged. This coulirius the report that
the brunt oi the action was borne In dmiral Beatn s squadron nt
battle embers.
.'I lie ( fnt r ill Nens ,uj , it has learned thai nfler the action the Herman
lleet broke Into Ittu forces and made for their home ports .".iter suiting a
liiruc number oi mines. I'lie Ilrltlsh simailrnit, it Is stall d, siieeeeileil In
Killliiir bi'titeen the Herman ti.it ! fleet and the smaller Uriuaii levels
n ail liter a brief ciiciwhiciiI forced them Into their ottu mine field, nilli
disastrous results for the Hermans,
Accounu a to liie part pla;d b the ejipelin. ditier Aidelj. Une
Total Loss of Life Is Placed at 8,000
Two British Admirals Among the
Dead Beatty Cut Off Foe's Battle
Cruisers From Base When They
Fled.
rumor is to the el feet that the .uecn Mary was sunk by a bomb dropped
iroin a dirigible, hit this report, in view of the opinion expressed at the
Admiralty that the Zeppelins had accomplished little, probably is with
out Ionization.
I-'isherinen who witnessed the battle have arrived at Erbjcrg, Nor
way, with the report that two Zeppelins were destroyed and that every
man of the crew of one of the airships perished.
i tiight survivors of the German cniiscr Fraueulob have arrived at
I the Hook of Holland on a tugboat. They say the vessel sank ten
minutes after she was struck, and they believe the rest of her crew'
of 35() were lost.
I ESTIMATE OF SHIPS AS HIGH AS 150.
! t-stimates of the numbv of vessels which took part in the battle
I range from -15 or -18 up to I5(). Tue Germans claim the British had 34
j ships and that their force was smaller. The British Admiralty claims that
I the German lleet was superitK in numbers to the British.
Careful comparison of the British and German reports of the sea
j light seem to indicate that Vice Admiral Sir David Beatty's cruiser
l squadron came in cjitticl with the German fleet, or possibly, in the first
I instance, a portion of that force.
I The strength of the British lorce has not ollicially been made known,
J although it b ascertained there were present the battle cruiser squadron,
1 lour battleships, some armored cruisers, a number of light cruisers and a
force of destroyers. It was tiiis fleet that first engaged the German high
sea fleet.
There was low visibility, which means that the weather was thick
land the range of vision was perhaps not more than six miles. Therefore
the action was fought at short range, in which both the main and second
ary armaments were brought to bear. The German battleships mount
very powerful secondary armaments, so that the British battle cruisers
were exposed at short range to a tremendous tire, three of them being
destroyed.
ONLY A FEW SAVED FROM THE FI AVENLOU.
One of the survivors of the Frauenlob. a midshipman named
blollzmanii, at the Hook of Holland, said he believed he and his com
panions wiio were brought here were the only men to escape. He re
ports that his ship was fighting from o o'clock in the evening until I
o'clock in the morning. At that time she was struck by a torpedo and
sank. The men on hoard jumped into the sea, but only a few ot them
succeeded in reaching ratts.
Other survivors say the British were hopelessly outnumbered by
the Germans, who had their latest dreadnoughts in "action and thought
the British were easy prey. Suddenly the British Grand Fleet came up
and the Germans made a running fight of it.
A despatch from Ymuidrn, Nether- , bulk of the crew was taken over bv
lands, says dotalls of the sinking of
tho Herman cruiser Klblni; were
learned thete to-day from Dutch
crews, liennnn sailoin and the Dutch
million commander of Vmulden, whu
spoko to three of the (let man cruiser's
ulllcurs.
Tho KlbltiK wns a new and fast
cruiser of about 4,0W or 5.00O tons nnd
canted n ciew of t50. Tho Hrltlsh
Kim lire caused such destruction on
a Herman torpedo boat, but doubts
may be expressed to whether thu
sailors arrived safotty at Willielmn
haven. Twenty. one men remained
on board until the vosel foundered,
when they Jefi In a lifeboat. Later
they were picked up by a Dutch
trawler.
Members ot the Dutch creir slid
that when tho KblltiK sank the se.x
was covered with driftwood and dead
til" ship that ('apt. .MadllDK, who bodies uere floatuiB around. The sail,
was amonif the three otlbers saved, jots saw a (icrnt.iu warship In a sink
decided to bate the viiltii opened Ini; condition sunk by a Ilrltlsh
and to allow (!.' vessel te sink. eruispi. Olhuis noticed warship
II, foil' the Killing w nt down tlif I1l.17.1n,'.
Entire German Fleet
Engaged in Big Battle;
Berlin Wild With Joy
M'KI.IN .Inn. .' ibj wlnica. to S.t.wi'le) The full tieruan high sea
IN' i .i ii's.ik d In edii..s(ia battle under personal command of Vice
Admiral tithecr, the German commander who succeeded Admiral voa Pokl.
