NIGHT
EXTRA
tmtmg
Meager
taspex
$&'-.
.; 'ftliSi. i.
"a'iSfS:iF1J
,:X-7
.'V
i'
MIGHT
EXTRA
rtfl
iAiMiii1 f ta
VOL. H. NO. 226
PIEELADBLPHIA, SATUKDAY, JUNE 0, 101 G.
Corriioni, 1010, t xm Fostto ttmn Courinr.-
FULLY 6000 BRITISH PERISHED
IN TITANIC NORTH SEA BATTLE;
FLEET LOSSES STILL DISPUTED
More Than 100 Warcraft Clashed in
World's Biggest Naval Fight At
Least $5 Lost Dispatches Point
to. Second Engagement
Botwecn 125 and 150 warships of various classcs-as well as Zeppollna are
believed to hnvo taken part in the mighty sea battle between tho British and
ticrmnn fleets in tho North Sea on Wednesday, in which' 25 ships at least wero
sunk. ,
Tho British Empire today awaited further details of the gigantic engage
ment the greatest in modern history, with feverish, 'anxiety, hoping that lato4
reports of tho Admiralty would increase tho number- of German victims de
stroyed by the "English men-of-war.
Germany is jubilant at what Is, called a monster victory.
Evidence based on dispatches that are pouring in from Dutch, Danish and'
Swedish ports indicate later developments, of which no official mention has been
made. It is probable that a later general fight or scattering engagements took
place. Tho reported sinking of tho Gorman supordrcadnoiight Hlndenburg and
tho cruiser Elbing and the reported seeking of refuge in Danish waters of eight
German warships indicate additional actions.
Although no official information was forthcoming as to tho British loss
of life belief was expressed that it would bo above 6000. This figure is based
on reports made to port officials. -"
Details furnished by eyewitnesses of the fight state it took place in foggy
weather ' and amid denso .clouds of smoko from funnels and guns of tho
Warships. t
It is believed that tho British ships wero in tho mnjonty, although fighting
conditions were moro favorable for tho Germans, as it is-.pointed out in the
official announcement of.,the Admiralty that they were aided by '-'low visibility."
This evidently referred to tho fog. .
Tho aggregate, tonnage of the ships lost on, both sides is at approximately
155,003 and the money value of tho ships sunk is estimated at $155,000,000.
The Elbihg,' a German cruiser, is unofficially reported lost.
Tho Warrior was not sunk in tho engagement, but tho British Admiralty
admitted that she was abandoned.
Tho British Admiralty denies the destruction of the English battleships War
spito and Marlborough, as claimed by Germany. Both arc safe in port, an official,
aaid.
"England still controls .the North Sea," says the Admiralty. Germany's
$ claim that tho grand flcet.took- part in tho battle is officially denied.
ROOSEVELT MAY
RUSH TO CHICAGO
ON 'HURRAH' TRIP
His Backers Plan Eleventh
Hour" Visit to Make
an Impression
HUGHES BOOMERS QUIET
Arrival of Governor Whitman, It
Is Expected, Will Aid
the Justice
By JOHN EDWIN NEVIN
CHICAGO, June a. A whirlwind
"eleventh hour" fight for Theodoro noose
volt, Including", It necessary, a hurrah vUtt
to Chicago personally to explain his views
In nn' effort to force his nomination by tho
Republican National Convention, Is planned
by tho Roosevelt men now In Chicago. Tho
men-believe that tho rank and file of tho
delegates to tho convention nre wllllnffto
he Impressed. And to Impress them rein
forcements from tho "big business" Inter
ests of tho East have' been sent for. Even
tho Colonel will bo available, although his
porsonal representative; George W. Per
kins, said today that thcro was as yet no
real reason why ho should coma to Chicago
and that no plans for his coming had been
discussed.
While tho Roosevelt men nre getting
ready for tho assault upon the trenches
of tho delegates tho "old guard" leaders
aro Jointly counting- noses. They aro do-1
termlncd to prevent tho nomination of
Itoosovelt at any'cost,-and are prepared, at
tho last moment to swing to Hughes If ho
Is the only man who can head off tho first
citizen of Oyster Bay. But before that
action Is taken thoy will carefully go over
tho situation, and will try to determine
whether they can retain control of the
convention. At present that control Is
certain through tho combination of -"favorite-son"
delegates and. tho unlnstructed
delegates who aro responsive to the voice
of their State National Committeemen. But
when the question of trading and uniting
i upon a slnglo candldato Is considered, many
of tho loadors are fearful that' tho bulk
of tho delegates cannot bo delivered.
THRpfrG ARRIVES" TOMORROW.
The existing situation hero will remain
unfchanged;u'ntll; tomorrow Jilght -The lead-
'u-s 'ph'jthe'" ground, coritlnuo.'to amplify' and
,ada to their claim's, but they .are powerless
Continued on Fare Four, 'Column Three,
"CUT IT OFF," SAYS
DR. JAMES KEATH
OF HIS LONE LEG
Physician, With Left Limb
Amputated, Ready to
Sacrifice Right
MODEL OP OPTIMISM
Curious to Get Out Into, World's
Work After Surviving Broken
Back and Operations
This story Is about n doctor's leg, a use
less leg that ho doesn't want.
"Cut off my leg."
That Is. tho wish of Dr. James W. Kcath,
tho grittiest crlpplo who ever waited for a
euro within tho walls of tho Jefferson Hos
pital and tho most optimistic man In tho
world, his friends declare ; and so dcclaro
all others 'who over had tho privilege of
talking with him.
It Isn't a wish often expressed. He
harbors It In his breast, llko tho silent
longing of a patient man fortho fulfilment
of an ambition. Tho wish has arisen from
a conviction that to take his place In the
busy world again he must sacrifice his right
leg. His left leg was removed In an op
eration more than a year ngo.
To go back another year. Doctor Kcath
"Smiling Jim" Kcath broko his back when
ho fell three stories through a skylight In
a frolic with fraternity mates at the Kappa
Pel house, 719 8pruco street, April 17,
1914. Nobody ever thougl ho'd llvo: no
body but "Smiling Jim" Kcath. His spirit
.was unquenchable. He becamo well, nit
but his legs; helpless, paralyzod, pitiful,
'they refused to respond to treatment. Ono
of them, tho left, became Infected and wns
amputated In January, 1315. With an
affliction that would havo crushed nlmost
,any. other man, "Jim" Kcath completed his
.studies at tho Jefferson Medical ..College
whlio' lying Hat on his back) and received
his diploma as a physician In Juno, 1915.
lie wns wheeled, to tho platform at the
Academy of Music and everyone who was
'thcro remembers- tho cheers that, greeted
him when his firm .right- htvnd grasped tho
sheepskin.
Dr. "Jim" Kcath continued to Improve
nil of him but his leg. His twisted back
Is healed, but In the healing the vital con
'nectlon In the spinal cord that controls
.his hips and legs wns forgotten by nature.
That one .leg It's rather gruesome to
.think' about .It, but there's nothing of tho
:gruesomo In ''Smiling Jim's" view, of It All
this year that he's been a doctor lying In
Continued on.rnio Three. Column, Three
LONDON, Juno 3.
Captain William Hall, chief of tho In
telligence Division of tho Admiralty, to
day .authorized the, following statement :
Tho 'German report of tho loss of the
Marlborough and Wnrsplto Is abso
lutely untrue. Both, these dreadnoughts
are" safe In haf6or. jJW German ro
' port hat thq jBrUlshv'battld fleet., was
engaged Is Equally 'untrue.. 'A portion
of the BritlEhfleet; "much Inferior to
the total battle fleet 'of tho Germans,
... .. i,i,- flkj.1 nn,1 1aa It VnTT
lilto Its rhtrbor. '.The BritlsTticohtfbl' 2
the North Sea., " ' ' t -i ... ' -'
Sinking' ot .three'imor.e British d'estrpjfersj
In Wednesday's battle wasreported' today.
In addition' to the-'Shark, which earlier
unofficial reports declared had been sunk,
worili was received this afternoon of the de
struction of the Nomad and Nestor.
Admiral Beatty was In command of the
first British squadron to clash with the
Germans In Wednesday's great battle.
10,000 MEN ON BRITISH SHIPS.
Meanwhile speculation .was enlisted to,
take the place' of detailed facts. The loss
of life, always one of the most, serious fac
tors In a naval engagement; because of the.
, impossibility to replace seasoned seaflght
erB in less than nearly a decade, could not'
be estimated last night,, but It Is safe to as
sume that the total number of British of
ficers and men engaged In the North Sea
battle was not less than 10,000. On the
warships and destroyers' named alone there
were 6579 officers and men.
From the German account It appears that
the- battle lasted more than 12 hours. It
extended, one is Inclined to believe l)ere,
from the area around Helgoland all the way
up to the Skagerrak, the arm of the sen.
separating Norway from Denmark.
The German fleet. U is assumed, came
from Its base at Kiel through the .Kaiser
Wllhelm Conal, putting to sea from
Brunnsbue'ttet, the North Sea outlet of
that waterway. Not many miles to the
north lies the Isle of Sylt, the base of the
German seaplanes and -poss(bly of Zeppe
lins, f
Ono of the chief duties pf the seaplanes
on Sylt when they are not making raids
on' England Is to "look out for the British
fleet."
There are also evidence nf Zeppelins
having served the Germans as the "eyes
of tho fleet." A- Copenhagen dispatch yes
terday reported that, a Zeppelin had been
sighted over the Danish Islandcof Fanoe In
a damaged condition, flying over Denmark
In the direction of Scbleswlg;
That submarines played an Important,
perhaps on the German side a very Im
portant part. In the North Sea fight was
generally believed here last night. Some
naval experts wentso, far as to attribute
the. "German, successes almost exclusively
to the participation of a strong squadron
Continued on Pate Tiro, Column One
THE WEATHER
Gambling (a wrong, and we have no
patience with tt Wo da not approve of
bookmakers and their methods, or the horses,
that run around the track or the persons
who watch them,; b frown upoji betting
even a. mild cigar ohyhe outcome of a ball
ganjej jve.wrlnkle.our browa at the thought
of wagering money on the result' of the
next sea. battle, how Unit such places as
Skagerrak and Horn B,trf have been put on
the map; and we deem U most unpatriotic
to bet upon the question as to who la to be
tha next President,"' But, nevertheless, we
would not, object to laying-, odds that It
rains tomorrow- '
Why? We. plan to go aholldaylng,
, FORECAST
For Philadelphia and 'viewfty-r-TJilmder
thowera.thhi afternoon; foif
tonight afc4 Sunday; JreaK to tttrong
touth- shifting to teeati winds '
tost aw 3?omr3
BONCH Ol KET3 lost Juse t. etuwout t. er
Kslih's nmsre U twr4. X ?ebUsfSl&
.&, c-j. t
r s
C40ABBTTB H0UER4jst, turn 1, "raSr
aBQ pucs w 5if .. Se- t4a gv hs,i.
'Bewarst H, C, 3MTgfcUmt .ft,,,
KlWTBB Uut. bUktf juKJf wilt solatf Witlu
y t 77 - w "l 5" -'-!;" t-
LITTLE I3UKE HEIR, HI&PARENTS AND PATERNAL GRANDFATHER
' v' ' " juMHliiBrliMB wcmlPDBBIiimjK BBBWHiSaBMBMlL "-SJHiB
Hero are young Master Angier Buchanan Duke. Jr., In the arms of his grandfather, Benjamin N. Duke; his
father, Angier B. Duke, and his mother, who was Misa Cordelia Blddle, of this city, daughter of Mr. and Mrs.
' A. J. Drexel Biddle.
HUGHES IN FAVOR
OF PREPAREDNESS
AND TARIFF BOARD
Views of Possible Candidate
Known Despite Pres
ent Silence
MADE INV 1908 SPEECH
Bu a Staff CorrttpondtHt
WASHINGTON, June 3. While support,
era of Justice Charles B. Hughes are as
serting that Republican delegates to the
national contention, In Chicago have such
confidence In the Jurist that they are. will
ing to '"accept bun on falth'f as the party
nominee for tha Presidency, they are not
entfrelr In the dark to how he stands, on
Important present-day issues. They know
he believes )n:
A materially .enlarged, nvy.
An Increase In the else of the army,
A tariff commission.
The bis principles of the Republican
PaBealIlng- that o Ian as Mr. Justice
Hughes continues to sit on the Supreme
C'j, liu ha lmoosslble for him to an
nounce his vjews on , political issues pub.
licly. indirect means, e ", ,
?o get. Ws position' o,n matters being widely
discussed.
lt has en U4rnd frow a, source of the
Ulshtst authority that Mr. Hughes' opln,
ions regarding tho necessity of the UnUed
Btatea raalatainiPS an army snd navy of
sufflcUnt l ta iln& i national honor
are. no dWerent froin what Uw Were In
J98fc when he stumped the country foj the
election Qt ViWaW Howard Wt
1 th imtimt views Ijave ehnftd at
tb4r Utual 1 MM M ftm 14
i$
CMmM wm 1'6VJ.
I
tin.
TWO WOMEN, PAST 80,
BURNED; ONE DEAD
Germantown Resident Used
Kerpsene to Start Fire; Can
dles Ignite Other's Dress
Fire Igniting the clothing of two women,,
neither under , SO years old, this morning
caused the death of one under dramatic
circumstanced and necessitated the removal
of the other to Mt. Slnal Hospital, where
she Is In a serious condition.
Miss Susan Kir per, SQ years old, last of
an old family that formerly lived In Chest
nut Hlllt was burned to death. She poured
kerosene on a lluestove In her room, third
floor front, at the home of Hugh McGovern,
it rieaeant street. Mt, Airy, where she has
lived for some time.
Meanwhile, iCnglne No. 9, at Carpenter
street and Qerrnantawn avenue, and the
Germantown police' had' both been sum
moned. The former put out the Are and
the police had the woman sent to the Ger
mantown Hospital.
Mrs. tebo, Nichols, 8f years old. of 713
Fassyunk avenue, la-at Mt Sinai Hospital.
She started to light the candles that are In
use every Frldajr night In Jewish orthodox
households. She stumbled, and one of them
set Are, to a curtain, whiph Dialed up and
caught her dress. Her 4-year-old great
granddaughter, I4da Nichols, '.ay tha acci
dent and rf n screai(ng to the street. Neigh
.and ran. screaming to the street.
SAMUEL G.SLYTHE
, Will Heport Both,
National CqnventiQjis
Dally for the.
HI first rtiej8,J.t)iPB.Moady I
i Milium in- mii ijjjiniij ijji i jjn
BRITISH MASTERY
OF SEA SMASHED,
BERLIN ASSERTS
England's dlaim of Suprem
,. acy Broken, Ger
mans Say
TEUTONS MARK VICTORY
, ' , , , BERLIN, Jue 3.
England's claim to the mastery of the
sea la broken. This Is the German view
resulting from the victory of the "fleet of
Vice Admiral Scheer, which has given the
Kaiser's nane as brilliant a tradition as
Is written on the pages of any naval power,
Flags wero displayed everywhere today
In celebration of the long-expected clash'
wtlv the British high sea fleet and the
German success. Schools were dismissed,
special services of celebration and thanks
giving were called, and German enthusiasm
was aroused as at no tlnje since the
Kaiser's army wks drawing near Paris
early. in the war
Although no official expression was ob
tainable, jt was evident that the sea victory
Is regarded here, as another step toward a
possible, early peace. Defeat of the British
fleet the first time it felt Germany's naval
poller; the fact that German territory Is
clear of the enemy; that Belgium .,d.
northern France, are successfully held, while
the.jjrtpch wd British lines have remained
stationary for the lat year and the Crown
MOSJa. hannnerlns at tho gates pt Ver
dun these points were cltd as answers to
tha falliert demands that Germany be
rushed.
The Kaiser la exnected to hurry diiw
to . vanVelinsshavert, where, be wilt,. Inspect
'. f S3ifg5ja icjnju uspi, FwiNuy op..
QUICK NEWS
nUGIIES DELEGATES FROM MISSOURI RETAIN SEATS
i
CHICAGO, June 3. Hughes stock took nnothor tt'pw.ivd timi nt
the nntloiml committee session just before noon toting when the body
ruled to pcrnllt O. C. Kuit26 mid V. W. Bicckmanu, of Missouri, to
ictahi iheir scats In spite of the "ttnvrl rule," contest of Chnrlca It
Omves and Henry I. Weeks. Xunsc rmtl llrcckntnttlt nre bellcvetl to
favor the Justice.
DELEGATE DIES PENDING CONTEST FOR HIS SEAT
CHICAao, Juno 3. While nigumciits on tho contest. lor Wa
seat wau bctug conducted beforo tho National .Committee lu.' tho
CollEcum today, A. B. Wood, 75 years old, delegate from Oklaliomu,
died lu'tho Wesley Hosiiital. News o lilu death reached tho coiu
mlttco nt uoou but the contest was eoutluucd despite it.
BRITISH OUTNUMBERED. SAYS GERMAN OFFICER
ROTTERDAM, June 3. Tho British grand fleet was cngnged in
Wednesday's action, . according to German naval officers who havo
arrived nt the Hook of Holland. Midshipman Slolamann, one of tho
survivors of the German cruiser Frnucnlob which was sunk, said Unit
half of tho German fleet engaged five British units that were sailing
north accompanied by light erulsers tihd torpedoboats. Tho British
ships were hopelessly outnumbered by the bigger squadron which in
cluded somo of tho newest German dreadnoughts. Tho Germans
thought tho British ships easy prey, but suddenly tho English grand
fleet arrived and the Germans had to tko flight to savo themselves.
A running fight of great 'violence then developed.
TWO MORE BRITISH STEAMSHIPS SUNK
LONDON, Juno 3. The British steamship Golconda, 5874 tons, haa been. sunk.
Four of tho crew aro. missing. The unarmed British steamship Elm jOrove, 8018
tons, has been sunk also.
20.0,0.1)0 MARCH IN CHICAGO , PREPAREDNESS PARADE
.CHICAGO,, ..June 3. Two hUnarcd'thousarid perspns'began marching,-thtflUgh
ChlcitfCtrfetffytoday. " tIiflBrctest4jJnride in- the 'hletoryWcthe 'country .-It
was a demonstfation'fof ndeina3fo"-n'atlohai defense. '" "' '"'-' , . ,"
PROVIDENCE, June S.-Thlrty- thousand persons marched In' a prepare'dnfesa
parade hero today. i
U. S. CONSULATE IN SANTO DOMINGO LOOTED
WASHINGTON. Juno 3. William W, Russell. American Minister to Santo
Domingo, today reported to -tho State, Department that bandits broke Into and
robbed tho American Consulato at Puerto Plata several days ago. Ho was so
advised by Consul Frank W. Henry at that place yesterday. Minister Russell stated
that American marines were landed at Puerto Plata June 1 and that all was now
quiet there. t
FRENCH REPORT BULGAR ADVANCE IN MACEDONIA '
PARIS, June 3. A statement on operations of the French forces In Macedonia
during the last half of the month of May, Issued yesterday by the War Office, says
in part: "In the Valley of tho Struma, Bulgo-German forces crossed the Greek
frontier May 27 and occupied Fort Rvpel. They pushed their advance posts upon the
.crests which command tho Valley of the Struma to the north of Demlr-Hlssar,
The fresh occupation of Furt Hupel brought about somo spirited occurrences. At
Salonlca there took place on May 28 in tho streets of the city a .well-attended mani
festation In favor of the Allies."
MAN FALLS DEAD NEAR WIFE IN CHURCH
Milton Rublcan, 48 year? old, secretary of the Board of trustees of the Wharton
Street Methodist Episcopal Church, E4th and Catharine streets,, fell dead beside his
wife In the church laBt night. He was seized with an attack of heart disease.
PHIOEJ d23 3&Wt
T"?r
BAPTIST CHURCH
REBUKES PASTORS
IN RICHMOND CASE
First Congregation's Trus
tees 'Censure Association for
Inviting JHirn to Speak
THEIR PROTEST IGNORED
Objected to His iPrescncc i
Building Suspended Pastor
Attached Episcopal
Denomination
OYSTER CELLARS CLOSED IN FIGHT ON TYPHOID
Director Krusen In his efforts to free the city of typhoid fever, has closed several
oyster cellars and Is preparing to take the same course with others. Philadelphia
need not fear an epidemic, he said.
U. S. STRAWBERRY CROP BREAKS RECORD
The 1916 strawberry crjp In tho United States will amount to 300,000,000 quarts,
the largest ever produced In this country, according to information received'
at the Philadelphia Bourse. The value of the crop Is estimated at 120,000,000, ex
clusive of the cost of crating, shipping and distribution.
'AMERICANS AND BRITISH SUBJECTS KILLED IN PERU
QORINTO, Nicaragua,- June 3. A number of American citizens and British sub
jects have been killed at Talara. Peru, by striking employes of tag London-Pacific
Petroleum Company, according to an unsigned wireless message from the steamship
Somor .to the United plates putter Raleigh at this port. The massacre, according
to the message, occurred yesterday, The strikers, it was said, had threatened to
burn the petroleum works, and the Peruvian Government was reported unable to
cope with the situation. The message stated that communication with Talara had
been Interrupted, and requested that the Raleigh proceed there to the relief of
foreign residents,
GREAT BRITAIN WILL BORROW $18,000,000 A DAY
LONDON, June 3. The Chancellor of the Exchequer, Reginald MoKenna,
announces that the deficit for 1916-17 will be met by borrowing an amount estimated
at 1,323,105,000 ($6,0,15,523,000). This will Involve raising by loans, on the average,
more than 3.600,000 (U8.000.000) dally.
BRANDEISTO MOUNT SUPREME BENCH JUNE 12
WASHINGTON, June 3. Louis D, Brandela will be swprn in as a member of the
Supreme Court probably June 2.
UNARMED BRITISH STEAMSHIP SENT TO BOTTOM
LONDON. J'uno 3. The unarmed British steamship Baron Vernon, 1779-tops
gioss, has been sunk, Lloyd's announces.
IRISH MUDDLE SETTLED, SAYS LONDON STANDARD
LONDON, June 3. iThe Evening Standard makes the statement that a basis at
agreement haa been arrived nt for esttlement of the Irish question and that tWpro
posed Irish Parliament will bo set' up Immediately, Ulster belpg excluded. The
Parliament, this newspaper says, will be mad3 tip ot the present Irish representi
atlves In the British Parliament.
GERMANS DESTROY PLANE; TAKE SLAV PRISONERS
BERLIN, June ?. Yesterday's official report on. the eastern front says a r-
connalssance south ot fimorgoa itmt ot Ovlnsk) result In, taking few ,
prhwnws. "A iSMf WM wwfiwreyea qmnaf! OS La Jjftovjaty
n;,iniiri h wir anUlrffrafi.fftms. tharcrvort aJiiE.
,cmaSvA m .sw.53 if Mvisiw la swaisrftftlsss" mmMM
A letter severely rebuking1 th Baptist
Ministers' Association for. Ipyltng tlio Rev.
George Chalmers Richmond to apeak. In the
First Baptist Cliurch; 17lh and Sansom,
streets, will bo Dentto the .clergymen's or
ganization by tlic, trujtcog of ;the churchy
Georgo Dukes, president ot the board, made
an announcement to that effect today, thus
arousing renewed interest Jn tho Richmond
caso. Th9 ministers Invited the suspended
Uplacop.il pastor after" tho .board had en
tered emphatic protest against his presence'
In tho church.
Tho trustees, according to' Mr. Dukes,
will express their1 feelings concerning the
Richmond incident .In a letter to Groves
"W. brew, secretary of the Baptist Minis
ters' Association.' This letter will be sent
In time to ba read at the next meeting of
the association Monday, at tho Crozer
Theologtcat School, Upland, Pa- It was
intimated by Mr. Dukes that tho letter
would point' out to the association the ln
advlsabltity bl again Inviting Richmond or
any other clergyman In a similar posi
tion to spenk In the First Baptist Church,'
whero tho ministers hold . their weekly
meetings. In a sense,' It Is said, the letter
will servo as an ultimatum to "the minis
ters' association.
A report that tho epistle would rescind
permission for the association to holds Its
meetings In the church, was denied by Mn.
Dukes.
SOCIAL LEADER MEMBERS.
Tho Richmond Incident has stirred up
deep feeling among the members and of
ficials of the First Baptist Church, which
probably Includes. In. Jts membership moro
men and women of nigh social standing
than, any other Baptist' Church In Phlladel
phlaJ Op Us roll aro the names of men of
high reputation In the professional and
business world.
By special Invitation, Mr,-,,Rtchmond ad
dressed .the ministers' 'association In the
First Baptist Church last, Monday on
"Chureh Unity"' A -fewJhoura-prlor tec th.,
jneetlny the trustees learned Jbat Mrl Rich
mond. was' to.apeak? and' they nctea quickly-Xr.Wj'-wr.'KeenwJvanemUiioC4he:.boarrt.
,
Jwrore'toUhe' association, protesting in behalf,
ot the1 trustees. , ,. , .-. .
Pc 'Keen pointed out that .ns WrrSHch
morid was" 'Under ,the ban; of4 the ;Eplscopal.
Church it would be a "Blap'f against; .that,
,innmlnatlki to allow him to address 'a
meeting ,ln the First Baptist. Church On(
tne Birengin or ims jeuur u muuuu ,
made that the Invitation to Mr. Richmond
be withdrawn. The .association' votett- to
stand by tho Invitation to tho, deposed
clergyman by a vote of 40 to .8.
feeling grew roiiowing me mccuiiK ui
It was learned that Mr. Richmond had bit
terly attacked other religious faiths. In
cluding the Methodist and Presbyterian
demonstrations In his address on "Church
Unity."
In spealdng of the proposed rebuke which
tho trustees will administer to the Baptist,
Ministers" Association, Mr. Dukes said;-
"We consider the ncllon of the Ministers'
Association In having Mr. Richmond spealc
In the First Baptist Church as art Insult
to the Episcopal Church a's well ad to pur
own. We have, many good friends who are
Episcopalians and we have no desire "to
offend them. We have been .kind enough
to extend the use of our church to the
association, and we are, surprised that' the
ministers went against our wishes and" al
lowed Mr. Rlchnnd to speak. If we had
had longer notice we would have stopped
it. Dr. W. W. JCeen wrpte a letter of pro
test, but the association paid no attention'
to It
LETTER TO END' IT.
"We do not Intend to bar the association
from our church, but we do intend to, send
the ministers a letter which will make plain
our feelings on the subject. -This letter,
should settle the matter for alf'tlme,- We'
do not wish to discriminate 'against any
body, but we think that we' should -have
something to say as to' who should Bpealc
In the First Baptist Church."
The Rev. H. Watson Barras. chairman ot
the1 committee of the Baptist MluisUrs'lAs
soclation which extended the Invitation ta
Mr. Richmond, said:
"Wa regret that Mr. Richmond, took ad
'vantage of our meetlng to' belittle n'd at,
tack, qther denominations, We.'ha,d no fdea
that he would do this when we Invited him
to speak pn 'Church Unity.' There was n
suggestion of church unity 'In.' his addresi.
He attacked his own Church with great'
bitterness "and severely criticised the Pres
byterian and Methodist denominations. He
charged that the Presbyterians, were con-,
trolled by a small group ot rich men,
"No one," he, said, "could do anything un
less he had the sanction of these men. He
said the Methodist Church was honeycombed
with politics and there was no religion in
this churph. He lauded the, Pope for hi
efforts to stop the war, and qtherwhte
showed his admiration for the Cat nolle
Church.
SILENT AS TO BAPTIST&
"Sir- Richmond exhibited great bittern
all the way .through. When be, had in
Ished. some one made the motion that he
also express his views of the Baptist
Church! This Mr. Richmond, "refused-1
do. Following his add real), we adopted.
resolution! thanking Mrs Itlcttnoml lor sani
tng before the association,. But the reso
lution plainly stated that we did jo$ Jndorsf
his views. "
"Our association baa always believed J
fre speech, tut If we bad known. MrjTUeS
mo'nd's interpretation ot ehureh. unJt
would "have never invited biro. to. coi .k
fora us- It Mr- Richmond had been U!iir
a ban f,or an overt sin, X would? not fc-ivu
been l tww pf Inviting luWhut tr Wa
Case only theological difference. at la
yolvcd."
The Rev, Os, P. eh at tfaflslotrfoH
N. J-, president N association, mm
It was ah unfcrluoaU (& JE. -
in favor ?f Inviting Mr. pfetowt nt tt
majority of tb ajMsoclaripo. mM "
so I could raise ( nbJwtlMU"
Two SulkUtfgs BMrni at
B0HNTOf. N 1
,c caujay. mm
s. . ij.
" litW"BGHMti
K
s
&& SftitS:""ffl
tawnu21a. biiti mM
ikmt's &w . .; mJ
