' 7" 3 - ,-
THE WEATHER FORECAST, "
Showers to-day; to-morrow fair; south
winds shifting to west.
Higheit temperature yesterday, 76; lowest, 56.
Detailed weather, mall and ma line reports on pan !.'
VOL. LXXXIII. NO. 277.
NEW YORK, SATURDAY, JUNE 3, 1916. Copyright, 119. by tU Sim Printing and I'uHUMnj; AttoctaUon.
PRICE
CENTS.
IT SHINES FOP, ALL
TWO
G.O. P. LEADERS
PLAN TO DODGE 1
HUGHES ANDT.R.'
Cram1 Calls 11 Candidates,
for (lot Together Confer
ence to Avert Stampede.
SI-KK MAX TO WlX
SITPOHT OK MOOSE I
Fiiiliiiir. AVill Turn to the
Jurist Penrose
Rooms Knox.
''m w .tune I. With the arrival
t.n '( most of the big Uepubllciui
leader the situation lti regard to the
lTex.delitl.il nomination him begun to
assume ,i more dellnitr outline. The
ran wli'VM voices lire most powerful,
iii nani-hs of the Itopubllcan party ,
iv. n" doubt at present that they can
t. in. i. .ite fh.irlcs K. Hughes If they
deiro In do mi.
Wiether they will actually throw
t:.ir inlltience In f.ivor of tho noml- j
r. .-i m of the Jurist Is, however, still
i'iiM-mimed. Satisfied that they will
te aide to prevent the Humiliation of
I". It wevelt by turning to Justice
Jluk'.es. the old tittle leaders propose
..iiv.i-.- the situation carefully lm
! ic . ommitii.'ig themselves to Air.
li s'les
m ot!iei Hunk, the men who have
I ' ;n (knii.ii.itmc fartors In the list
ti li. p , Miian loinentiniiH. intend to
i -,..ier li'..' nisiliillt of naming
t .,. (i- it r candidate who Is more to
t r l U.iik I't-r.-onallj they would
i ifr ' name Kllhu Hoot, and home
.. n i " i wiin tiisnr upon c.-Seii,itor
7 . ..I ii- liurtun of Ohio. Charles W.
1 i imK of Indiana and Gov. MeCalI
c- M ii .mim tt. and Philander C.
K .f IV'iiisS i aula.'
Will MiiiimI lu- lli-l-uHtr.
!' iiixt iWo dn.vs will l- devoted
t ' i Hi puKi-tn leaders to ascer
t.. ; Mom the i.u-omlti delegates
u i li Knot or any one of the
oi .ci i.iniluliti-s except Justice
11 - is .in i l "ol. lloosevelt could be
( ' n,. a.-o wln-tlii-r It will bo
I i . 1 ol tain Progressive ludorse
l' my of these men.
t i.po.-t is iinfavoi-alile, as now
f i'. . the lug loaders an- likely
t. 1 . a io'r Inltiu-iu-e In the dlrec
t I Hi. i, Hughes as a ei-rtaln
r -lov-onllng a scramble In the
( i hi with the possibility of the
I ii f Col. Itoosevilt.
I l.'i- if action to be followed be
t i,. ,,i turn it soon after the arrival
i' i. i-o of Senator Pentose of
' in ii and ex-Senator Murray
' f M is-.H-htiM-tts. who ire ne-
. U J :o be the must Important
i 1 factors In the pre.-ent sltua-
me and Mr. Penrose had not
Ci,- iriouiid lorn; Iwforo a pro-
i I ii advanced for a set to-
.i fei rai'i' to 1' attended by
.latlves of nil of the ciml'dntes.
.. i i.f st.-'t a conference If said
,i- ol glli.lted with ex-Senator
i 's ,iir i-o-e beh g to injure a
' I nirt support for the strongest
nil ibis .strength develops III the
mH,.i. A liailiionlous iiilvar.e an-
dug f lhl eli.it. ieter would bo
' i ted to prevent a scramble on the
' . Ahull might ileeop unexpected
- minus and leave many scars
r . 'i haul fee! UK
and ,
t;n
Timetlier I'n life re nee
It is ut'derslo.itl
that the represent.!-
t'ws . all tb
anilldales fourteen of
.1 ..I 1,. IiL.i ..irt In
. J ..,.' uhl.-h nrobil.lv will i,e.
Id on Sunday.
Anv agreement then
ii-hed will not,
of course, affect the
r , balloting.
'ol Itoosevelt will not be lepresented
'r i'n- confeionce Nor will Justice
P.. a - h,ie any lepresentatlve present.
1 ' oigh the Jurist's friends undoubtedl
b ik out for hii Interests lu an In
foi il manner. 1
A' le tile Republican leader" were
S' g eilence of a get togetllei spirit
a i desiie for b'linioiiy some of the
1 adieu I of the Progressives were
.1 .s serious signs of kicking over the ,
i- -- Hiram Johnson of California, who
v 'b Ilonsevelt for Vice-President III
irnved full of fight. He soon
c e.iiiabout him other Prngresshes
Hire balking at George W. Per
l laii to postpone 'he Hull Mouse
n on until niter II had become ap
! who was to Im the llepiibllcan
Several lOnferellies were hebl
" ' .' allaiinc the wrath of the radical
--s es uho weiii insisting upon
' ite no on In the Progressive con
i ml the renomlnatinil of lloo-
ir
Pei it as and John W MrCr.tth.
.smelt's seetetaij. were plainly
.1 i over the utin-tlon and In thtlr
-n Id publicans they weie citing
..len. e that tho llepubllcaii lead
- i be obliged to take the l.olonel
i lo hriug about a haimonlous
i t.een the two paltle'-.
threats of the moie aggressive
IT'itesshes ami Hie apparent
a the part n? Mr Perkins as to
In could i airs out the pro
' -f delay did not eeeni to a bum
I . an leaders lo any great ex
V i- into Ihere In no eviilelico
' ii tins pli.isj; of tin- situation
t's ii ' g seriously in their plans.
Mouse ln I'psel I'litna.
" 1 ne believed that fid. Itoose
' I is. bis Influence to prevent
Moo e omentum from acting
' .it I they had known that Mr
' ' i'n nl iia.s committed to t Ii'h
r'-" i iler Ihese ci I cllllistll lues Hie te-
.i i bos hail iloubted whether
' pi oh til movement Inside the
i" i tiM'iilloii could assume
i ! il ors
' . i .mi -ecil be Mi Peiklns ami
' in no genuine the ralcilla-
' " 'hi Ib iiiiiihcan leaders may be.
P" t., i ti,. piogiesslvo convcnllon
f.'oittiniin mi fourfa Pope,
ROOSEVELT OR
FIGHT, MOOSE
DELEGATESSAY
Tlii'.v Will Nominate the
Colonel if (1. 0. P. Xuines
Hughes.
NOT IX FULL ACCORD
WITH THE LEADERS
(Jov. Johnson With Them
Perkins Trying to Solve
the Puzzle.
'HtPAHo, .tune :. Thr ltuatlon In
the Progressive camp Is puzillng eer
body here. It If puzllnB George. W.
Perkins niid It Is an enigma to John Mc
Grath, Col. ItooseveK's secretary, who
l looked upon by everybody as repre
hcnllnK the Colonel
As Is cenerally known. Mr. Perkins
and those who have been keeping the
Progressive organization Intact have
had it all arranged to hold a regular
national convention that should be ortho
dox In all Its forms. They have rented
hotel rooms by the score for the dele
gates, have arranged for State head
Huurtrrs for the different delegations,
have engaged a good band ana had
tickets and badges primed.
tixerythlng has been exceedingly well
organized except as to the delegates
tliemselc. And they are the ones that '
are going to make trouble. If the pro-j
gramme of Mr. Perkins atid tlm.e work
ing with him does no: Include the nom-,
In.itlnn of I'ul. Ko.immIi. j
Mr. Perkins and his friends do not
want a third ticket They are carefully
refraining from mylng that they will not ,
lane .lustlce Hughes, mere Is every
indication tha. they want a united c,-po-Hiilon
to Prieldent Vll.m, even If It
should im an the effareineut of the Hull
Mc.n-e, providing, of course, that the can
didate ts not a i dictionary and one
whose nomination can be credited to the.
"UM lluard.
I
lleleuille. III,. e lo I'llMl.
Hut the hostility to thi programme on'
the part of many of those who are com
ing in delegates to the Progressive con
teittloii Is becoming more and more ap
parent. It Is the out and out Progres-,
hcs that are making the trouble, the1
ni'-u who are -,- lug that they forsook
all to follow Uoom'M'Ii because of the
banner which lie raised n loft four years
ago and are insisting that something l
due thorn for doing so
Uov lllram Johnson of California. Col
l!ooscelt's run ill UK mate fojr .leara
ago. Is recognized as the potential
irouiue mailer Hi tile .I'rtigresslve con
tention, lie Is the leader of the taction
which .i Insisting that they will not
stand for eapiUletiey as against prlncl-
i pies.
liov. Johnson arrleil here this morn
ing, and there began Immediately a
series i,f Impintaiit conferences in Mr.
' Perkins's rooms at the Htaekstone Hotel, .
Among those prejcnt at these confer- ,
eiices besides the ijovernur and Mr i
Perkins wen- Secretin y John MeUrath. i
Walter Prawn, the leader of Uhio, A. I,
i liarford. the uhio State chairman; Jame.s '
It. liarlleld and Chestir Howell, the
chairman from Callfoiuia,
These conferences went on all day 1
lietueeti these meetings Mr. Peiklns
talked over the telephone with the Colo,
nel at Dyster lla What went on at
these talks was not disclosed, but it wxs
ery plain this eviullu- that the sltua-1
Hon had not been cleared up and that
both .Mr. Perkins and Mr. Mcilrath wero 1
unite concerned over the situation that'
the radicals had picclpltattal
lloosetelt, 'n One KUr,
In a nutshell the situation Is Just this.
The radicals say they will not take
anybody but Itoosevelt and positively
ulll not support Hughes. I
They threaten, should a compinmise
"'"" ' ro-ommciiueii to thn
luiiteimuii .nr. 1 eiKios, 10 tear tilings
ble open, accuse the leadeis of sacrlllc
" . ii j'.mi
ago lor political expi ciiency ami or
ganlze a movement of their own to in-'
dorse President Wilson unless tho
Colonel should accede to their w shea
ami head a third ticket again. i
This Is the .situation that the Progres.
sive leadeis, who feel that under some
circumstances Justin- Hughes might bi
acceptable, are battling lo overcome. It
Is still doubtful, though, whether even
the Colonel's Influence will be sutllclent
to bring this eleniejit Into line,
Gov, Johnson had little to say to-day
for publication, except that Itoosevelt I
was the only logical candidate for both j
parties, that he had made the Issue of
the day and why take the Issue anil not ',
t'le man. About Justice Hughes he was i
discreetly silent
Walter lliown, the Ohio leader, Is for
Hughes If the Hull Moose cannot get
Itoosevelt. lie is standing with Mr.
Perkins, but admitted that the situation
was going to be a dlllicult one,
"I am Inclined to think," said Mr.
Hrown, "that we could get our conven
tion to nominate Mr Hughes if be
should be the Itepubllc.in nominee, but
It will be dlttl' lilt ou account of the
opposition of two classes -those f1io are
unconditionally for Iluosevelt and those
who luiM' doubts .is to whoie Mr.
Hughes stands on the Issues of the day. '
Didn't ( nine In l(nlll.
"IKill'l llllrtake Hie attitude of lilt '
Piogressise i oiiveliliou, however. It Isn't
going to be a ratlncatiou meeting. It
will try to come in an undeistantlliig t
with the Itepilb'ilcnns and lle up to aii
agreement thai may be I cached, but III
any event It will proceed Independent!) ."
Word Iiuh been brought heie by some t
of the Progressives of the radical type
that ex-Senator Ucw-rldge had declined
b.mself in with them on their stand 1
against Hughes or any compromise can
didate. Mr. Heverldge Is In Massachu
setts, writing a book, and will not come.
to ( llll'llgo, mil lliese j-iokii ssixin
seemed to be ery posltlvo as to how
bo stood
Committeeman Gardner of Maine de
clared that Maine, New Hampshire,
Kliocle Island and New Jersey delegates
who ate coming hern to tlm Moose con
vention would refuse to lake anybody
but Itoosevelt.
"There In a tremendous sentiment of
Idealism among tho ProgressleH ct,
and this will make Itself felt If any
Oanlfnucii on Fourth Pag:
BRITISH LOSE 15 SHIPS,
FLEETS IN GREATEST
BRITISH AND
LONDON, June 2.
'J'HE Hritish Admiralty's account of the North Sea buttle
follows'
On the afternoon of Weanesrlay, May 31, a naval etiKairement
took place off the coast of Jutland. The British ships on which the
brunt of the lihtine; fell were tho battle cruiser fleet and some
cruisers nntl lifrht cruisers, supported bv four fast battleships.
Among these the losses were heavy. The German battle fleet, nlded
by low visibility, avoided u prolonged action with our main forces.
As soon ns these appeared on the scene the enemy returned to port,
though not before receiving revere damage from our bnttleships.
The battle cruisers Queen Mary, Indefatigable and Invincible
and the cruisers Defence and Mack Prince were sunk. The War
rior was disabled and after being towed for some time had to be
abandoned by her crew. It is nlso known thut the destroyers Tip
pcrary, Turbulent. Fortune, tiparrowhnwk and Ardent were lost
nnd six others are not yet accounted for. No British battleships
or light cruisers were sunk.
The enemy's losses were serious. At least one battle cruiser
was destroyed and one wns severely damaged. One battleship Is
reported to have been sunk by our destroyers. During the night
attack two light cruisers were disabled and probably sunk. The
exact number of enemy destroyers disposed of during the action
BERLIN, via London, June .1.
Tho olTtcial German report of the North Sea battle follows:
During an enterprise directed to tho northwnrd our high sea
fleet on May HI encountered the main part of the English fighting
fleet, which was considerably superior to our forces.
During the afternoon, between Skagerrak and Horn Riff, a
heavy engagement developed which was successful for us and
which continued during the whole night.
In this engagement, so far as known up to the present, there
were destroyed by us the large battleship Warspite, the battle
cruisers Queen Mary and Indefatigable, two armored cruisers, ap
parently of the Achilles type; one small cruiser, a new flagship of
destroyers, the Turbannnt. Nestore and Alcastcr, a large number
of torpedo boat destroyers and one submarine.
By ol--tt-vatinn, which was free and clear of objects, it was
BRITISH WARSHIPS LOST.
Supeidi-iaili oiighi Warspite
Battle cruiser Queen Mary
Battle cruiser Indefatigible
Battle cruiser I vincible
Armored cruiser Defense
Armored cruiser Warrior
Armored cruiser Black Prince
Totals
Destroyer
lost, and three
I'nrtniH'. Ardent.
others (names unknown). One submarine.
suite, said by
bv the Germans to have been sunk, may be the cruiser
Warrior.
LESSON OF GREAT BATTLE
MAY ALTER U.S. NAVY PLANS
Washington Experts Lay Stress on Vulnerability of
Cruiser Type Secretary Daniels Awaits Detailed ,
Reports From Attaches at London and Berlin.
Wisinsnns tune " -News of the
n.v.'i L,Z lo' the Vo'rih'ei aroiil
n,ial battle in th North M a iin iioi,
keen iiiteu-st In naval circles heie. nen .
the lirst unnttlclal leports reached tlio'fii.in th.. beginning of tho war. T.ils 1
V.nv In 11.11 tiiieni routine business vas;.is to entice Hie llritlsh cruiser fori' I
suspended, while groups of oltl. ers trotu
the Mirlous bureaus met In consultation
and eagerh soiuht additional nevs.
The consensus, band on latest leports,
was that llnlisli u.i.il piestlge has suf-
fered .
liraiul
seeie blow. The fait that the
Hrltlsh battle Meet was appar
el, tly not ea.-iued explains, lu-i-oidlng
to n.-iMil olliiers, wl. the lliitlsli battle
clliisers f d so Ij.u11 In the light. It
1: belleiitl heie that the German sipiad
ion bad the support uf at least a p. rtnni
ol the German high sea batth .-hlp Meet
Scerctim I'anicls said to-auht that
the result of this iiigiiemcnt might
cli. in,c the proar inline of the Pulled
States n. ii) im Hie building of capital
(hips He said thai neither Pomtii.iiidi
Siiilngtou, naval attache at the London
lliiibass), inn Commander Cherardi, na
val attache at the einhiss In lleilln,
had et leported oil the battle. 1'e.
tailed lepoits .no expected and will be
Closely studied by tile Nll llepartlliellt.
The most seM're losfes to the llritlsh
nay are the battle ciulser. Queen Mary,
Indefatigable and lnvluclnlc,
The Queen Mary's IS.U Inch guns as
suieil her a hitting power eipial If not
superior to am German battleship, but
being a battle cruiser and built for
speed her atmor wa coinpniatlwly thin.
She hail a nine Inch minor U'it amid
ships and annul four Inches thick at
the cutis. The Indefatigable and In
lncibe each catiiid eigln I'.' Inch guns
and had minor 7 i Inches thick
Until the arilloled uulseis Pi feiise
and UlacU Pi luce were outclasseil bv ;
the niosi imiilerii tjpe of cruisers In'
either the llritlsh or German nav. It Is
said although tlu- weie 1 jot Ii very sir
vlt ealiie ships.
The lew of one of the ranking lln
otllcers at tin- I lepai tmeiit Is Hint the
llrltisli squadron got I'm far Horn the
siippnrt of the main lighting Meet anil
found Itself opposed bv German battle
ships ami iiiiahle to call the licit to
ill aid In time I
It has bum the consistent policy of
Hie llrlllsh mil", II Is cvplalncil, to
keep the pianil licet In touch with lltlt-
Ish auviluiiy forces and lo hale plans
mi arranged that the licet could be put
Into action in mppou oi iiieso nircesi,,!
at any time they wetn Ihiealcned by the
bnttleslilpK of the Geiiu.iu navy. I
Il Is iccoguia-d iiimc that name
cruisers, despite Iheli haul hilling
power, arc n" maleh lor batilcshlps, for
the reason that the batlh ships have the
armor prolectlnn. while in tin- case of
Hie battle irulreis tins ;iiolecllon Is
Hncrlllcetl fir speed Therefoii' It Is an
mcepleil Pllnclpht Hull baltlcshlps nniH
bo opposed by battleship.'. Pi esimiably
tlii! Ilrlllsh grainl Heel vvas bellevul to
be read) lo extend Its protection lo the
ballle ciulsei Miliailrnn wheiievi-r chal-
Icimed bv- a German roue, hut the
Hu.t H..ile. IhirtU.- bHtlle.
ships got to Ihe sane flret and decided
SUPERDREADNOUGHT IS REPORTED SUNK
GERMAN REPORTS OF NORTH
GERMAN OFFICIAL VERSION OF THE FIGHT.
Guns.
Men.
1,000
1,001)
TOO
780
850
704
704
Tonnage.
27,500
27,00(1
18.750
17,250
14,000
13,550
13,550
8 15 in.
? UL5 in-
SI'- in.
S I-
4 O.'J in.
:.'- jn.
f, 0.2 in.
5.828
132.200
Turbulent
The War-
Smtrrowhawk
Tippernry
lie Issile l.efoie the Hrltisl, grand lice.,
"ad tun. I., make Its p, esem e felt.
Appar. mil the 1 iei mans HiicceobM In
. . im, ,,..(,.,. iiiib w.-re planned
n:. i a position wheic tlu could be dealt I
. bj the "b 'in ill high seas tbct.be
tor., tl-'i prole -Hon of the lliltish grand I
luet could rea.li them Tin eli'ir. Ger
an sij s'siein ha:, long made a fe.i
tme ol .ntiinpllng to g-t llilormatleii .
. unci rnli.g the movements of the grand
1'iet ami always with the view of per-'
m ttmg I e German navy to strike n 1
1 '.mv at Ilil'isb naval fotces without the
i isk of i ncoimierlng It
Tin re Is i di'tltic lesson in this for
lie I'l.ltnl States navy,' s.ild one of the
I mil I 'ni'.ed States naa! nllb eis to-uluht
"Il shows tint neither bn'tle ci niseis
tun atiiii.-nl 1 1 uisers ate thb' to i ngiigc
licttleslllps without getting the WOMt
i- So lai as an) conglomeiate mass
ol battle i ruiseis, urmuieil 1 1 utsers and
Hiiali craft is coiicei ned they aie unable
t. , ope w Hi iirli a few in, iIitii Mist
i lass battleships. This has appaiently
been shown III tin- fight Just loncludeil in
(lie Ninth Sill, and P will be shown
imam an) t ine n siii.iiliuu of battle1
ctulsers or c ulsers cme up against
ico.lern tlteadnoi.gnts."
N.nal experts do not legaid the losses
stiiferi'tl by the llritlsh na) Mirtlclent
lo cilpple its superiority, svoclnlly ns
Gnat llrltaln depends oil the grand Meet
for tins superioi it) . and n ports- so far
do not sli'nv that this Meet has s'UTerid
lin the other blind, il is leganb-il as
piobablc that Gennaiiy will be emoiir
agetl to risk fin tin r ingagemeuti at sea
with a view to bringing the Hrltlsh
navy down to its own strength
MAY GET HATTLKSIIIPS.
Itlu n.'" lien lure Hopeful
Vbotil Hie IIHI.
WtsiiiMiTos. Juno S. An incieaio of
In. nnial bulldini; in o-ir.uiiini b two
I nt'li shi-is when the bill Is taken up
b the Senate Naval Committee ma) be
i. utile as a ic. ult of Hie ilKieter Winch
I p:i i I'll 1 1 oici'iook the battle cruisers
in tin. I'.Lthi nuiween the llritlsh ami
'i i in. i II llects.
Itepiits of the battle came toi late
j , ,,,. fragmi ntnry to aficct the
I, hiiki',1" for Hie bigger nan in the
-u.e lo-iln) When the oiing was
,w. hoeer, and Hie iippaieiii failure
the biltle cruisers to vv USMaiul m o,
ame inoio generallv liiiimu the pre-
mi was made b) I hose who bad beeiiiGapt Perslus says
,. consultation with members of the
Senate ounmlltie that piovision for
two battleships at least w ailtl be made
hi Hie bid I'iii' prediction was nut con
Imeil to the Itepiilillcan side
Itepresentatlve Padgett, chairman of
tho House Naval Affairs f nmniltlep,
ml lo-nlght that the
le acre too voieial
o a definite opinion
III (KWIKItl IN V
Slisvv nre mi 'Hepiiviire Nnu npru blsal
I imA W.
j MuHPUT. C. V. Mlllll'lir, liuutn.Aiv,
cannot
large.
be ascertained with any
Tho
following further report
to-night :
The Admiralty, from a further report of the commander in
chief of tho Grand Fleet, ascertains that our total loss In de
stroyers was eight.
Tho commander In chief reports that It Is now possible to
form a closer estlmnto of the losses and dnmage of the enemy fleet.
A dreadnought battleship of the Kaiser class was blown up in an
attack by British destroyers. Another dreadnought battleship of
the Kaiser class is believed to havo been sunk by gun tire.
Of three Germnn battlo cruisers, two of which, it is believed,
were tho Docrfllnger and the Luetzow, one wns blown up and
another heavily engaged by the battle fleet was seen to bo ilis
abled and to have stopped. The third was observed to be seriously
damaged.
A German light cruiser and six German destroyers were sunk.
At lenst two German light cruisers wero seen to bo disabled.
Further, repeated hits were observed on three other German bat
tleships thnt were engaged.
Finally, a German submarine was rammed and sunk.
stated that a large number of English battleships suffered damage
from our ships and the attacks of our torpedo boat flotilla during
the day engagement and throughout the night.
Among others, tho lnrgo battleship Marlborough was hit by
a torpedo This was confirmed by prisoners.
Several of our ships rescued parts of the crews of the sunken
English ships, nmong them being two and the only survivors of the
Indefatigable.
On our side the small cruiser Wiesbaden, by hostile gunfire
during the dny engagement, and his Majesty's ship Pommern,
during the night, as the result of a torpedo, were bunk.
The fate of his Majesty's ship Frauenlob, which is missing, and
of some torpedo boats, which have not returned yet, is unknown.
' The high sea fleet returned to-dny (Thursday) into our port.
GERMAN WARSHIPS LOST.
Guns. Men.
Battleship Pommern 4 12 in. 711
Protected cruiser Frauenlob 10 4.1 in. 281
Protected cruiser Wiesbaden 1 1
Totals 1.022 20,700
Siv destrovers (names unknown). One submarine.
In addition, the British assert
Kaiser class (24,310 tons) was mown
is believed to have been sunk. One
class (2t!,o00 tons) was blown up.
BERLIN REJOICES OVER
NEWS OF SEA BATTLE
Reichstag Cheers Wildly as Its President Declares That
the Losses of the Fleet, While Heavy, Were Greatly
Exceeded by Those of the British.
v- .1 fatlt tittpatcl. lo Tim Si ( alaty that the l.sees .,f i:.ig,,sh
amstcmiam. Ma Ixmdon. June : vere .Mraordin.irily gieat ami tho-e of
..., . , ,.,,, . .,''"- 'b iman- 111 pioi.irtlua to the success
1 1 ' .
ln" 01 "e ia ai nam. . m.-ii-
The Her
lin newspapers express
Jubilation with-
in iiildh.g an) thing In Kie wa of la
loimatioi' They rs'liuate thai the laig
li'h big ship tonnage losses weie ion uoii
tons, and the German losses In this du,
lu.iJuu ions wall about the same piopor
t.'on pieia l.iig i lining the suialb'i si, ,s
Pesp.iti lies from lierlln late to-mgit
ipiote Presiiieut Kaeiupf of the Ueb lis
lag as relerrlng. In this atteruoon's
session, to the North Sea battle av the
"first collision between our uaial foices
and the pli k of the Ilngllsli licet " Pr.
Kacinpf i-ontlnued-
'tliir MtuiiK nav galin-d a gnat and
spb-iillil success. Scleral of our line
nips nave Peeii Inst ami man)
Inst ami man) brav
a bus perished, but the enemy h,s,.s .
are seviral times greater than out.
Above all the batth proved that mir ,
licet Is able to face the superior llritlsh
force and gain a xbtory tor which we '
h.ilulc and thank our navy. '
The Ki-lchstag members stood during ,
He announcement and greeted Ii with
vehement applause.
Hear Admiral llebhlnghaiis, pii.itor
of the Admiral!) . staled thai the whole i
battle Meet under Vlee.Ailtulr.il von
Si her faced the llritlsh bHtlle Meet, In
c hiding Dili t) -four big moilein ships
He sanl Ihe battle lasted until (i o'clock
iii the evening, win reafter there occurred .
a serlis of reclpiocal attacks between'
cruisers and torpedo craft 1
petalllng the llritlsh losses. Item Ad
miral I lebblnghalis said Ihe German
battleship Westfalen alone accounted !
for six ilestio)ers He added that ihe t
Gel man losses bail not been detlnltel)
determined, that some German ships had ;
been considerably damaged, but Ilia I
the main pail returned tn the base '
"The men and the material alike',
sioud the lest of battle excellently." he 1
conclinleil. I
A despatch was sent t P.mpernr
William b) King l-'rederlck August of
Savouy, lontaliilng Hie following nu-s-sa
ge . 1
"With gieat J.i) ami evtraoi dinar)-1
ei thusl'ism I have Just learned of the
brilliant vbtoiy of our licet over the1
naisideiahly superior main part of Ihe I
liliglisu name ncei. rills is one ot the ,.t,t. T,h "r,.,i will'
lliusl days of this serious lime tor our.,,. a,,r. .,, r,.,,i ,,,'cs 1,1.
falhei land
Our tleet showed itself tiilte!
the eipial of our al my.
Siitlng In the llrilimr
'The area! sea battle evpeiled by
ninny mi bo'h sides slm c Hio In ginning
of the war bus been fought nut aflo-twenty-two
uiniitlu. walling and pnscd
off In a manlier w-ldcli will awaken Get
many to Hi" liveliest satisfaction. He
inle fuilber news of Hie intirse ..f tin
reports of the bat- baltln Is pilhllsheil one ciiu only ill. tw
in form the basis conehinoiis. lu getieiiil wonls mv opin
ion is that the Get man tleet obtained a
gnat success WhMi special arm In Un
til rl place led to tlm success, whether
gun, tons'tlo or submarine has played
Ihe ereatenl role, la at the moment un
known. It raa only be said with rer-
GERMANS II;
FIGHT IN HISTORY;
SEA BATTLE
certainty, but must hnve been
was issued by the Admiralty
Tonnage.
13,000
2,700
5,000
that one German drendnoughtjof the
up ami anotner oi me same ciass
battle cruiser of the Derfflingor
Inbt.i ned etraonllnaiily small. A pir
a rue I'ugllsh losses were slops of the
er latest class
'The Cirmai! licet
In the open sea,
v. It I. oat any coastal support, dealt n
. oiiipiei lng blo.v at tin- strongest Meet'
in the w in Id."
The t titsi-hc Tu.'esjeiiimn fi,i.
-Tins is n,e gnatust sea battle of.
l.aidein times. Taking account of how'
itinicndous are the new forces at si a
a. d tn.it our licet bad the chief sliengtb
ol the llugllsh line aga n-t it. He si--nitli-aine
of the battle is far gteater
thin ever before, or nttaliilv suae the
liiseov.ry of armored nuisci- t lur Ib'-ti
In Id its, f tn i.L.it.l I v The loi-ses on tin
i lei man side ale not to be i oiup.it, d w lib
tile loss , I time of Lhlvll'tals stiouuest
In adnoiuhts Above all. Lie 1 1, toty was '
eltaliuil against stiperlm niituliets.
Hill oui,g navy ba shown a tre-memlini-
siipertoril.v oei He tit st and
g atest fleet In the world and has'
.I'Veieil Its .'lag with undMiig fame ''
ni.OW AT BLOCKADE !
tn III.- tint He Ilesult of tttneks
mi l.ermiin liniicellor.
."titmil I nl.lf Ihnpatrh In Tnr m v
l.Npi.s. June 2 Signlllcance Is at
la. bed here to the fact that the North
mi battle ... c ii id tucnt) -jViiu hours
after Ho- Heiihstag wllnessed, for the
first tlllle Sim e Ihe olltlll' ali of tae vvai,
a putted alta k mi Hit Govet tiiuent at
the bauds of its former lov.il supporters,
the National Liberals and Conservatives.
Pepuiy Stiesi inaiin, H e Natininl Lite ial
leader, i ngaged oil Tuesday lat In a
v.liiolic tirade, ai i using Hie liupcruil
I'lancelba- and the I'onlgn Mlnislei of
"splm lessness" because the) hail ) bided
to the American deniauds in the sub
mailtie i ontrov ers) .
other National-Liberal and ( 'misei va.
live Hepaiies Jolniil St I eseiua mi, all
coinentiatlng their nttaeks on Gngl-iud's
'iiiiuiicr w.n." carried on. as Pepin) von
Giaefe said with tlm aid of Gie.it llt-IP
aln's 'iiansail.uitic trlcnd " I'.v-eti ihe
Kins. , uonie vvas dragged into the iln
b.ite. the opgiosition . barging that tilt
llmpii'ir vvas sui i iitimleil by a clliiue of
advisers who kept f I urn him Hie "teal
will" and Hie "ie.il leellngs - of the
was. u.iltirally.
.... . conclusion ,..., sled In some
I,, , ni e n. in. k I,,,,, i. ii, in
'punters here, therefore, is that the ijov
1 ert'iiieiit. to piove that this mailer was
o no means helng ncgvcteil. arranged
with the l i in ra It v for a dash Into the
open b) tile hull seas III ei, and Hi it the
battle was the remit
KAISER TO SEE FLEET TO-DAY.
Ilxpecleil nt Wllbeliusliiiv t'n In In-
perl llallle Hurt I tori.
spm'll i txhlr lrpi!fri In Tin; Si
Hs.ni.iN. via Amslerdnm, June '.' - Km.
pcror William is expected In visit Wll
lielnishavea tn.moriow lo Ins-iect the
fleet returned from the North 8e battle.
7,000 British Sailors Believed Drowned in En
gagement in North Sea, Off Danish Coast
Conflict Raged All Afternoon of
May 31 and Throughout Night.
ZEPPELINS
BIG
DROP
GUNS
London Admiralty Admits Destruction of Fourteen Ves
sels and Does Not Deny Announcement That
Warspite Was Sent to Bottom.
'P'clnt fadlt Tinpiteh to Tim Si
I.omn-, June 2-i.A strong squadron of the llrltisli g-and licet composed
of battle cruisers, armored cruisers, destroyers and submarines- mid Inter re
enforced by hattleshlpsmet defeat ut the hands of the Certain high titan
fleet off the west coast of Denmark on Wednesday.
According to the ltest repot ts. the Hritlh lost tlftei n warship, ami tho
Germans eleven. Tho fifteen Include tho superdreadnotight Warspite, slater
ship of the Queen Elizabeth, which Is mentioned In the Gorman report. Re
garding the fate of this vessel tho Admiralty is silent The llritlsh report,
however, mentions the loss of the armored cruiser Warrior.
The clash occurred almost exactly on the nnnlxeisary of the battle) In
which Van Ituyter's great Hutch nnnada wrested the mastery of the seas from
Hi Manilla In the same North Sea.
Ilrltlah A limit I. una uf I 1 Mili..
As jet the news officially given out Is meagre and shuls oiil a am light
upon what actually occurred, but these facts have been positively established
ly the fierman and llritlsh Admiralty heads:
The llritlsh admit the loss of six worships and eight destroyers
The Germans admit the loss of one battleship, one thlr,l class cruiser
and several torpedo boats They admit further that one piotected cruiner Is
missing.
Wireless messages from llotterdam report thru Dtitih vess,.u nre making
for the Hook of Holland and Vmulden with one HritMi and twenty-two Oer
mun survivors.
The German Admiralty asserts that the British lost s warships, includ
ing the MiperdreAilnousht Warspite. of the (Jiieeu r.llzal.eth el.iss 27,S0U
tons liesldes many destroyer and one submarine and that on ha.ttesilp,
the Marlborough, was seriously damaged
rno Hrltlsh Admiralty, on the other hand u-setts that the Germans lost
one ilre.-winnught battleship of the Kaiser class one of the newest types of
German warships, of 1'4."00 tons one bottle cruler of tho modern Dorllllnrjcr
clas. one light cruiser, six destroyers and one submarine It is fuither as
serted that annther dreadnought of the Kalsrt class wos blown up, a tliir,.
battle cruiser Is believed to ha e U-i n Mink by guniliv, on.- battle ci nisei
disabled and forcul to stop, and a third s. rou il.uuaceil i.h.i -m Imsi" tw
Ceimun cruisers disabled.
lillllllll ill llrlll.li I H ll III I .
assertions nie made In a statement gm n
The.-
the Official Press Bureau had stated that the l.u l; of details made it impossibly
to make a full report public. Wh.le the late Adiniialtj stateineiii with l; -enumeration
of German losses otlered some relief, it did little to dispel tin
I gloom that settled upon the British capital and soon afterward upon the whoie
of Kngland as n le.sult of the official iidini-sion of the di -n act, on of three (.f
the tlnest Hrltlsh battle cm. sets and tlllee arilloled il niseis
What did still more to arouse : -
anxiety here. howi-er. was the publl-I b-:ui llui.g :,i t,n ii, 11111111 vessel ami
cation of the German statement. All'
external evidences tended to support J
1 tho German announcement that the
Brlt.sli forces wete, numerically if not
III armament, stronger than the Ger
man units : encounteteil. I'p to a
late hour to-night the German reports,
purtti-ularl.v that of the destruction of
the Warspite. temalned undenlcd by
the British Admiralty It N possible,
how evet . that the Waispite, which the
German.s assert tiny anU, wis In
feallty tie armoreil cruiser Warrior,
which, it i oillciall) ailmitted, was lost.
London has not forgotten the fantas
ia Get man ( loiiti regarding the .sink
ing of tlm Lion
I". nun tl in llrltisli shl n
.Me invvtitle speculalion was enlisted
to take the plan- of detailed facts. The ,
loss of life, always one of the most
serbms factors In a naval engagement,
bnause of the impossibility of icpl.ic- )
nig seasoned sentlghters in less than
nearly a dei.ub. ralino! be estimated!
to. night, but It is safe to assume that '
the total number of lliltish otllcers anil
men eiig.ueil in Hie .North Sea batlln
vvas not liss than Id.nou. On the war
sh.ps and ilesttoei named aiutin
theie wite ii,."i"! olliccrs and men
To Ihe people of Loudon Ihe sadde
piece of new.s vvi.s the announcement
in the German otllclal statement that
"two sinvlvois only' of th" battle
iiiiiser liidelaligali.e weie rescued b
the German.-, indicating, as It dws,
tl-at ihe n inamdcr of the ships ctew,
"'.is ollbeis mill mell. lost their live-l-'roin
the Cei man iiccmiiii I! appears ,
thill the Mltm lasteu Illoie t null
twelve bonis It cMendeil. one s in
clined to believe lure from th" urea
ill annul Helgoland all the way up to
the Skagetak. lie aim of the sea
separating Norway fiom IVrillurk
Him Hit llnllle lleglln.
'I'll,. ( iipenbageu colt espondeiil of
the in' Viif.i sends this account of
how the battle st tried.
'The Panisli ste-iniet- I-'loid, which j
has arrived at I 'rederlkshav en from
l.elth, was tho cailhe of the whole I
light While stenmliig about 4 o'clock i
off the northwest coast of Jutland sin'1
wns stopped by a German torpedo!
boat, whose chief rime ahnird and ex- ,
aiiilned her papers. While this was;1
proceeding four HiillMi, destroycts
were observed on th" hnri.oii coming
toward the German vessel. The Ger-'
man chief anil I' Is men hurried to their
torpedo boat anil left at full speed,
The rjortl did thn sime
"Within a few mlnutcfl the British I
BOMBS AS
HAMMER BRITONS
ii all in-night, after
Kept up tin- .1 tm- ,1 win;,., l.m,
mo i-joru pascod lour German cm Vets
tuid thirty torpedo boats sterling .H
lull speed in tho lue. Hop .,f the si Cli
nt battle The r, heard the ml.-
lunaile for over f eir t while gidt
cast nioiiml thi Sk.iiv
II
ems Hie I ii n ii, mil il III i.
'Tlio .Vol wi im
11. Ill Ihuiaml. nis.i
iioliade nir did n,,:
Tim cum. n;n.. vvas
-t' inner I Irn.k.i
Ileal. I H.. ,;,
si tb.. Ilshtiui.
til si henrd gouu
West lovv.inl
"Plum tl
o' la. id.
! 1 1 1 1 1 MUllg ells'
W's et lif .llltl.in
III dig vva- r -.c
ti ward Hie smi
th,, elnil e i m
Zeppelin ii is .
d dill Im; the nigh
Win low shook i .
'i'n a -av nun mm.
-'IV. d ill a wteili.
loiiditiou as
' put"' d. floill ,
The German '.
i n ThurMl.
nail1) ilamagiO
I Punish Uyin I,,, ,
lslro)er Llialvu vva
rnoriilii!.. even til ,
Allotln i G. una-, d -fiovi
an ivnl
l.uec nil. I !,,! , , ,w
The 1 1 mi..,, ,sie,nusii,p N.n soori;,
living ,it t'opellhagen It .mi SiiiuK-i
land. lepole,l b.unm vv.tll.s.ed i',
battle in the Noilh Si,, Wien tight
miles oil' I e P.ll. lighthouse ll.iu.
uiolm on eines, i j nfti i no,,,,, t;,
N ic.sborg s captain asM if ... i t i
German n, , ,.msi.t,,,.. ,.
ships raligiin. froin b.iii,. sn.ps to toi'-
pego boats stuiiiiiiig fil spiel, half
lllillll'l! 'II stllnke
At lll.ollt IP JO n . bii-i,
begllll. 'I he N le.liofi, .
a '.Iioliade
clow i ollld Pet
w l.u Ii was Hi -
t .Ull. lltlt !,!
Iliseell Hrills'.
oiilv the Get man lli 1 1,
lug in a -oiiihei Iv din
COUliI SI e s.l.-lls I l.i
w.ilnhtps filling vv.tli stead. ,v iiurfis
ltlg riiiudi'v among t ho G i in in units
Witlm haif an lioiil' tllosn atveird
I III" Nip s r maid iiake om vmHi
, '"'lr glasses a, ticiiv n ,,f ,),
.Mini, mi snips, i iii so vvtie mint; n
rapidl) a pos,ii,,., with nil M1nis.
lliltish shdis wire falling umnier-
iupieiii .niiong l hem, tbe proJectlleu
i i.Mhiug
the wuler.
The Naesborg riintnnn'il on net east
ward coillse. All llolll I, Her she
sighted u X.eppellu, going west Tip
Zeppelir. iiimo down low lo examln.
her. Tlm cannonade was st.ii tmiib
late In the evrnlng
lllublv llritlsh s,p, ,.,.,,.
The Panish stenmslnii Laui.ii n
ports that Weilnesila) iliu-i.on
lliltish Meet n seveniv or eighlv lat-j
and small unit was sighted gumn i Js
off tho const of .1 lit 1 1 nil. but a i ousi -erablo
illstaiue out. The lleet tui
denly fiinilo a tlllli to the S'Mit'
violent cannonade was hi aid for about
an hour
Millllt 7 n .-Im I, he III it .-I tlei t a;
pcliied an nil s-n'i.ig ii -in . aster
diiectn.n. inn .in.i t' iiii i waul
'iiriieil in ii 'ii i h. s.. it t 1 1 ,
gun a tints v .oh t . nitioni.ie Th
German fleet was ,pv s tup (
man sheds dropped vvu'oii two ip 'i
of the I.acoiir The ship in in i
