The Chicago Convention
--wl be coved by two sftf of Go to Chrch
famous writer known t. newsp&pe You WEI Fd tho Assasm
admazame rader tbr~ot the 40f_______ 1 4 I fth eftIOf Wsaihhgg. Land.
cntry-a The -emICM ing Ou"rcbes on Page 5 Today.
NO. 3515. WEATHEI-THUNDEMsHoWEs. WASHINGTON, D. C.. SATURDAY, JUNE 3, 1916. ONE CENT.
HUGHES CAN WIN
IF CHIEFS WISH,
VIEW NOW HELD
Party Leaders Declared Satis
fied They Can Beat T. R.
in Convention.
STILL HESITATE,HOWEVER
Thorough Canvass Being Made
Before Influence Is Thrown
to justice.
By I. A. POWLSN.
(The 3.n News servsee.)
Chicago. June 2-With the arrival here
of most of the big Republican leaders,
the situation in regard to the Presidential
nomination has begun to assume a more
defntte outline. The men whose voice
are most powerful in the councils of the
Republican party have no doubt at pres
ent that they can nominate Associate Jus
tice Charles E. Hughes. og the United
States Supreme Court. over tol. Roose
velt, if they desire to do so.
Whether they will actually throw their
influence in favor of the nomination of
the Jurist is, however, a question that is
still undetermined. Satisfied that they
will be able to prevent the nomination
of Col. Roosevelt by turning to Justice
Hughes, the old-time leaders will can
vasm the situation carefully before com
mitting themselves to Mr. Hughes.
May Pick "Dark Horse."
In other words. the m-n who have been
the dominationg factors in the last two
Republican conventloimy intend to con
sider the possibility of raming some other
candidate who is more to their liking.
Personally, they would prefer to name
Elihu Root. and some of them also look
with favor upon ex-Senator Theodore
Burton. of Ohio: Charles W. Fairbanks.
of Indiana. and Governor McCall. of Mas
sachusetts.
The next two days will be devoted by
the Republican leaders to ascertaining
from the incoming delegatet whether Mr.
Root or any other of the candidates ex
cept Justice Hughes and Col. Roosevelt
could be elected over President Wilson.
and also whether it will be possible to
obtain Progressive Indorsement for any
of these men. If the report Is unfavora
ble. as now seems likely, the big leaders
are apt to throw their influence in the
direction of Justice Hughes as a certain
means of preventing a scramble in the.
convention with the possibility of the
nomination of Col. Roosevelt.
General Conference Planned.
The line of action to be followed be
came apparent soon after the arrival in
Chicago of Senator Penrose. of Pennsyl
vania. and former Senator Murray Crane
of Massachusetts, who are acknowledged
to be the most important political factors
in the present situation.
Mr. Crane and Mr. Penrose had not
been on the ground long before a proposaj
had been advanced for a get-together
conference to be attended by representa
tives of all of the candidates.
While the Republican leaders were giv
ing evidence of a get-together spirit, and
a desire for harmony, the more radical
of the Progressives were showing seri
ous signs of kicking over the traces.
Were You
Among the
Fortunate
-who were either regular Sun
day home subscribers or wise
enough to have the newsdealer lay
aside a copy of
The Sunday
ONE -CENT
HERALD
The HERA.D is always the
first Sunday paper to sell out.
There is not a five-cent Sunday
paper in the United States that
begins to give the comparative
value for the pree as the ONE
CENTl Sunday HERALD.
The ONE-CENT Sunday HER
ALD contains all the news and a
duplicate for practically every
feature of either of the Washing
ton Sunday newspapers selling
for five cents.
--Comaic Section
-Dranmatic Section
-Society Section
-Feature Section
-Sorting Section
-Frteral ndClub Nntes
-And All the News of All the
World.
FOR ONE CENT
-Delivered to Your Door.
-H ER ALDS aluuys t out
FIRST.
ZAPATA MENACE
MAY TONE DOWN
CARRANZA NOTE
Offensive Operations of Ban
dit Likely to Force Modifi
cation of Demands.
MEXICO CITY IN PERIL
Massing of Troops Near Bor
der Leaves Rebel Leader
with Clear Field.
Serious offensive operations by Zapatis
tas in the vicinity of Mexico City, re
ported to the State Department yester
day in official advices, are expected to
have a sobering effect on the belligerent
attitude assumed by Gen. Carranza in
his note to the United States.
Taking advantage of the action of the
do facto government In moving large
numbers of troops northward toward the
border. Zapata, according to the reports.
has launched an active campaign, which
may threaten Mexico City itself. It is
expected that as a result of this Car
ranza will have to draw heavily on his
troops in the north.
Had Pact with Vilia.
The chief significance at the present
time of the Zapatista activities lies in
the fact, disclosed by the capture of cer
tain correspondence of Villa's after the
Columbus raid, that Villa had an ar
rangement with the Morelos bandit chief
tain whereby eventually the Zapatistas
and Villistas would effect a combination
in a supreme effort to overthrow the
Carranza government.
For weeks the whereabouts of Villa
and the remnants of his followers has
been a mystery, and it is regarded as
not beyond the bounds of possibility that
if he is still living he may either have
joined Zapata. or have gotten close
enough to be in communication with him.
About a week ago the Mexican Embassy
here gave out a statement saying that
Zapata had Instructed his followers to
cease their attacks on Carranzista troops
and to confine their operations to the
wrecking of all trains carrying Ameri
cans and other foreigners. Judging from
the advices received by the State Depart
ment the brigand chieftain has changed
his program again.
TEUTONS PUSH
LINES AHEAD
Occupy Part of Village of
Damloup, but Fail to
Win Heights.
MASS ATTACK RESORTED
TO IN DESPERATE BATTLE
(By the San News gerviee.)
Paris, June 2.-Following up their suc
cess in the Caillette wood yesterday aft.
ernoon. the Germans launched a powerful
attack this morning on the sector to the
east, extending from the Vaux Pond, Im
mediately west of the village of Vaux. to
the village of Damloup, to the southeast
at the foot of the heights of the Meuse.
The center of this line I In front of
Fort Vaux. which was the objective of
the German assaults. The Germans suc
ceeded in occupying a part of the village
of Damloup, but were not able to gain
a foothold on the heights above. Even at
Damloup, the scene of the only German
success, the greater part of the village
remains in French hands.
The mass attack, which has been used
by the Germans throughout the recent re
newal of the Verdun offensive, as it was
used in the earlier days of the campaign
for Verdun. was brought Into play again
on the Vaux front with corresponding
losa to the attacking troops,
As the waves surged up the heights to
the fort and fell back again, torn to pieces
by the French fire, masses of re-enforce
ments moved forward from Dieppe, behind
the German lines to the northeast, and
came under the fire of the French heavy
batteries. Under this fire the supporting
troops broke and fled back to Dieppe.
GLYNN TO BE CHATRXAw.
Former Governor Will Deliver U3es
oeratte Keynote Speeecs.
St. Louis. Mo., June 2-MartIn H.
Glynn, former governor of New York.
was today designated for temporary
chairman of the Democratic National
convention, which opens here June 14, by
the subcommittee of the na~tional com
mittee on arrangements, after an all
day session at the Jefferson Hotel.,
Glynn's selection to deliver the key
note speech is said to represent the ex
pressed wish of President Wilson.
Spaniards Seek to Pretent War.
Mexico CIty, June 2.-One thousand
members of the Spanish colony have sap.
pealed to King Alphonso to use his In
Suence with President Wilson to prevent
war between the United States and Mex
aerm's smite. m11 Made to Memura.
Blues, blacks, graya 611 7th a. aw.,
$90,000,000 WORTH OF WARSHIPS
SUNK IN GREAT BATTLE AT SEA
The greatest sea battle in the world's histoty resulted in the de
struction of more than $90,oooooo worth of warships. Of this amount
the British loss, according to London admiralty's official report, is
$7o,ooo,ooo. This is irrespective of the loss caused by ships which
were damaged.
The amount of the German loss is indefinite because the cruiser
Wiesbaden is not listed in any naval almanac, and is undoubtedly
one of the vessels constructed since the outbreak of the war. It
can be estimated, however, at about $15,000.000.
The German ships lost, according to Berlin, cost as follows:
Pommern, $6,070,000; Frauen Lob, $i,5oo,ooo. Total, $7,57o,oo. Wies
baden, cost unknown.
Members of Congress Are
Latest Recruits to Ranks
Of Preparedness Pageani
Members of Congress are the latest Gude. of the parade committee. "Con
recruits to the ranks of Washington's gress is going to march with us, t04
preparedness parade on June 14. We saw, Vice President Marshall an
When the parade committee an- he expressed his hearty approval
nounced on Thursda'y that it had se- the Proposed demonstration. He sat
cured a promise from President Wil- that a call to Indiana will proven
son and his Cabinet to march. the news him from taking parh"
was flashed all over the United States. Pledge. Are Obtallued,
and the workers felt that they had
After leaving Vice President Mar
in tbjir efforts to shall the committee obtained promise
make the parade a succs.h from Senator George Chamberlain. o
Urged on by their s9cess at the Oregon. and Representative Claud
White House. however, the committee Kitchin, of North Carolina. to invIt
yesterday took their appeal for co- the members of their respective house
operation to the Capitol. When they to mare in the "Congressional unit
emerged their faces were radiant, of WaOhrngton's preparedness parad<
They had gone another notch. 0
"Yes." said Chairman William F.| CO)NTIiED O- PAGE THEEr.
President Joins in Lauding
Bishop Cranston at Banquet
President Wilson and Secretary of the reer and rendering the meed of prala
Navy Daniels last night joined with the which he has so richly earned. I suppoa
bishops of the Methodist Church. North that the life of one bishop Is very mud
and South. in paying tribute to Bishop like the life of another. and to describ
Earl Cranston at a banquet tendered the the career of one a discriminated free
retiring bishop at Rauscher's. Rev. Whit- that of another In very much like de
ford L McDowell presided. Bishop Cran- scribing one human face as distinguishe
ston. in reply to the eulogies of his life from otner human faces, which Is a
work, said: "Brothers and sisters. I love dtcult an exercise in the use of th
you all." language as I know of.
President Wilson declared that he at- spirit Important Ting.
tended the banquet to pay tribute to
Bishop Cranston under the compulsion of "An a s aeo t o that. h
his own heart, and it seemed that he o elyms tep odsrb
his wn hart andIt seme tha henot a career, but a spirit. In any give!
would be missing a privilege not to ar
range to be present. He said, in part: career, if it be the career In a well-or
"I have been wondering how you have ganized profession, one man goes throug
managed to differentiate Bishop Cranston the sane functions as another, but yo
from other bishops In describing his ca- COrnrD ot eAGE TWO.
Mrs. Kennett Says Police
Employed Woman as Spy
An open declaration of her belief that attorneys moved that the case be dib
the police department only a few months missed on the ground that the rennet
ago employed a mysterious woman ho was a public and not a privat
"stool pigeon" to gather evideein hue and that the law prohibited onl
houses suspected of being Immoral was unlawful entry of a private house. Th
made yesterday in Police Court by Odr". technicality brouht a sudden halt, thf
Rose Kennett, of 826-329 Delaware avenue trial being continued until Tuesday morn
northeast, at the trial of Detective Mason Ing when Judge Mupowny will rende
1c Howes. of the "vice squad." charged an opinion.
with unlawful entry of the Kennett home. Another feature was the promise o
Her statement was one of the outstana- Mrs. Kennett that she would try to pr
Ing features of a trial that io being fol- duce In court a register of boarders aI
lowed with interest by the public b Wca her house. The defese expressed a de
the outcome may determine whether tte sire to get possession f the volume, con
"vice squad" Is to be permitted to eon- tending that the gntrs would show tha
tinue raids upon "suspected" houses. a woman of known tharacter registeree
When the prosecution rested, nowe' onrthat te lPAE p ive
$1,000,000 Asked $250,000,000 in
For Heart Balm New Auto Merger
Miss Cassie M. Doty Sues Will- . N. Willys to Be Presideni
Ram Edgar Smith for Rec- of Heaily Capitalized
ord-Breaking Sum. Corporation.
(By he San ews ervie.) (BY the latelsatienai News Servie.)
New York, June 2.-A breach of promise N. When Jue Mulon wil rndi
suit for SIa00 the largest ever re- merger with a Capitalization of betweeo
corded in this State-was filed today In KennOO tt and sO.en.OoO has just beer
the Supremne Court by CAsie mansafield d, itwas learned today.
igfeagued ofult-ilthaire ibing at ducerland Comptany reistrof boaredesa
theWdorft nerstby the uic thecson her hos. Thean reiente thpee Cat
the latcoe Wlim an trinseweer Smth amr ato Pgenxosses iona Bankoum, ison
whoc wsquad"nes tof peted Arouco-b ten chatrano the nawoul shommta
trotuerais, teesete"hus Wiam C. knwnuracltely restorec
iss hrComssint M is Doty usW l-'. .Wlys thatBe President o h eea oosCi
r.ithsh pdgrchased for Relean thf maaement.aitlie
TheBekigSu .Conoliatorastobncoprae
trousseru, expcng to- bearoriseo
Ferry ints Stt-wsfietdy in ti tt ih ~ sae fci
"henprm on ut dby Cahe anrfseld mnsoko oprvlead5000
sot, MgisDt slays Edga Sithn a-bs nomto banbe
middnaged marri-mgeionaie, thatn woul
thbandorit Agrea w eat. Lonon Jne2.Moinspctre of'
the beee Wivenam VanmRennteplareSmith,
who iwash Sarer o p th e aAbc l eo cec ySrEns hcl
Barn erompnt, issn ,' osys at arvda otSaly nte
Mr.k bynit sbae.urhs -lsfled le an sadfo h naci ot
atrouseau etpctgltobymdrse o ntMoigpcuerodswetae
tof thrradventurousttripiandawilldbeea
boand hithdbegreate oyeweegrahicl."
British teamerTrpedoed
'BRITISH
FOUR'
IN
HOUSE PASSES
BIG NAVY BILI
$250,000,000 Provided fo
Naval Construction and
Maintenance Next Year.
MINORITY PLAN DEFEATEI
The House yesterday passed the nays
appropriation bill carrying more tha:
2.000.000 for construction and mainte
nance of the navy for the next fiuca
year.
By a narrow margin of six votes th
f House raused to recommit the bill and
instruct the Naval Affairs Committee V
include the "bigger building" program o
the Republican minority. The motion t
recommit was lost. 19 to 18.
Speaker Cark Votes.
A recapitulation of the vote was de
manded before the vote was finally an
nounced and the result was in such doub
that Speaker Clark asked that his nare
be called. He voted against the motto
to recommit
After the t'na; effort to Include a bij
building program had failed, the Hous,
passed the naval budget, 358 to 4.
The four members voting against tb.
bill were Browning. of New Jersey, a
minority member of the Naval Affair
Committee; Graham, of Pennsylvania
another Rcpublican; London, of Nev
York, S6eialist. and Randall, of Cal.
fornia, Democrat.
The provision for the construction of a
government armor plate factory, at a cos
of 111.000,000. remained in the bill.
Vote Unchanged by Battle.
Although reports of the North Sea hat
tle spread quickly through the House a
the members prepared to vote on th
!naval budget, it was not apparent tha
this occurrence had any effect upon th
vote.
As passed by the House the bill pro
vides for the following additional construc
t Ition: Five batt:e cruisers, cost S20,n40.cc
'!each; four scout cruisers, cost 5.671,00
each; ten destroyers, cost $1,35,000 each
- three sea-going submarines, cost S120
each; forty-seven coast defense subma
1 rines. cost $731,O0 each; one fuel ship
Icost $1.363.000; one ammunition ship, cos
?.714,000, and one hospital ship, costing
$2,250,000.
The bill makes no provision for nes
Dreadnoughts.
DESECRATOR OF FLAG
SENTENCED TO JAIL
(By the Sun News Service.)
New York, June I.-With distinctly ex
pressed regret that they could Inflict n.
heavier punishment, Justices Russel
Moss and McInerny, sitting in Specia
Sessions today. sentenced Bouck White
of the Church of the Social Revolution
to pay $100 and spend thirty days in th
city prison for desecrating the America,
flag.
White had a big roll of money. sc
maybe he will pay the fine; if he doesn'
he will have to spend 10 days additiona
in the Tombs.
"We are sorry that the law preecribe
no more severe punishment." enid Justice
Moss, In passing sentence, and Justic
McInerny observed:
"There isn't room in the country fo
such men as you."
Immediately after White was sentenced
District Attorney Swann announced his
intention to prosecute the perpetrator
of the outrage on Thursday night whei
the American flag was burned in a pa
of fire along with the flags of severa
other nations.
GERMANS LABEL BATTLE
AS "BRILWANT VICTORY'
Amsterdam, June 2-The naval battI
in the North Sea is regarded in German:
as a brilliant victory far the Germai
fleet and great joy prevails.
Capt. Persius, the noted naval ex
pert of the Berliner Tageblatt, writes:
"The English losses were very heavy
ours very small. extraordinarily small
indeed, compared to the success achieved
"In open battle, without the suppor
of the coast batteries, our fleet victorious
iy fought the most powerful fleet in thi
world.
"The whole of Germany thanks th
admiral, his commanders and the crews.
Baseball in London.
London. June 2.-The American reai
dents In London have formed a basebal
teamn, which is to join a league organize
by the Canadian military units. The firs
game at a schedule of twenty-eight game
is~ to be played June 10.
New Finance Minister Named,
Berlin (via Sayville wireleas), June 2.
Count Von Roedern, farmer secretary a
state for Alsace-Lorraine, has been ap
painted minister of fi"s=ce succeqdn
NAVY LOSES
PEEN WARSHIPS'
BIG SEA BATTLE
TEUTON'S LOSSES
MAY TOTAL CLOSE
TO THAT FIGURE
All Reports Tend to Show English
Sustained Crushing Defeat, in
Twelve-Hour Fight.
CASUALTIES MAY REACH 9,000
Zeppelins and Submarines Take Part in
Conflict---Germans Flee Before
Enemy Reinforcements.
(By the Internatleal News Service.)
London, June 2.-The British admiralty tonight admits a defeat by a
portion of the German high sea fleet in the first great naval engagement
of the war.
In a tremendous battle off the coast of Jutland on May 31 the Ger
mans sank fourteen British warships-three battle cruisers, the Invincible.
Queen Mary, and Indefatigable, three light cruisers and eight destroyers.
The German admiralty claims the additional loss of the Dreadnought
Warspite, but at a late hour the British admiralty does not include the vessel
in its list of losses.
The British report mentions the light cruiser Warrior not yet claimed
by the Germans.
GERMAW LOSSES HEAVY.
The German losses are the battle cruiser Darifliner. &s p-Dread
nought Pommern. the small cruisers Frauenlob and Wiesbaden and several
destroyers.
Zeppelins took part in the conflict which raged during the afternoon of
Wednesday and until daybreak on Thursday.
Tonight there are no estimates of the loss of life. The British ships
lost were manned by approximately 7.000 men; more than 2,000 men were
aboard the German vessels put down.
SHIPS COST $90.000,000.
The British ships lost cost approximately $70.000,000 to build, the
German ships $20,000,000. At I I o'clock tonight the British censor refused
to pass further accounts of the battle.
The British admiralty has issued the following official report:
"From a further report from the commander-in-chief of the Grand
Fleet the admiralty ascertains that our total losses in destroyers were eight.
"The commander-in-chief stated that it is now possible to form a closer
estimate of the losses and damage sustained by the enemy fleet.
DREADNOUGHT IS BLOWN UP.
"A Dreadnought battleship of the Kaiser class was blown up in an
attack by British destroyers and another Dreadnought of the battleship
Kaiser class is believed to have been sunk by gunfire.
"Of three German battle cruisers, two of which, it is believed, were
the Derfflinger and Lutz. one was blown up, another wfich V h -
engaged by the battle fleet was seen to be disabled and stopped. The third
was observed to be seriously damaged.
"A German light cruiser and six German destroyers were sunk and at
least two German light cruisers were seen disabled.
"The commander-in-chief further reports that repeated hits were ob
served on three other German battleships that were engaged.
"The report adds that a German submarine was rammed and sunk."
Great Crolvda in London street.. A; ; are11y th, ;emn O;.,n e the
Rumors that an important naval it.-- ;Pattie. The most reliable rerrt States
te had been fought brought great crowcds that patrois o- the German eet egh d
into the streets early today. Expect- txso Btritsh destroyers which had stop
tions of a victory were dispelled by to. Ped to examine the pape-s of a neutrcl
night's official announcement vessel and, unseen by the BritiIh ships.
From the mea-re detaijl which have rushed back to the rnain German squal
filtered through from Holland and Den ron.
mark it is evident that both fleets had The Germans came upon the two de
heen in the datrict where the !,atti: stroyers still engaged with the neutral
was fought since earl'. Wednesday morn-;
irg. C Dr 01, PAGE TWO.
- What Balderston Saw
At the Front
Washington Herald WXriter Has Been
the Guest of the British General
Staff at the Headquarters in
France and Belgium
John L Balderston, whose authoritative articles on
the war have for several monts past been studied with
intense interest by Washington Herald readers, has been
accorded unique facilities for seeing the British front and
incidentally the German front opposing it. What he saw
and the important discoveries he made will be revealed to
Washington Herald readers exclusively
IN THE WASHINGTON HERALD
TOMORROW and MONDAY
