Social
Oil
State
I ! t
11
VOL. XXXVI. NO 28
HAYS, FT.T.TS COUNTY, KANSAS, JUNE 3, 1916.
SUBSCRIPTION $130 PER YEAR
MAYS
way to make.
I save part
what you earn
We extend the same services and the same courtesies alike to all
depositors, whether their accounts are large or small.
No one is any more privileged to keey a bank account with us than
you are.
-We would like to have you call this bank your bank, and you can
open as small an account as you like. Interest paid on savings.
HAYS, KANSAS
5
urns C xv
4
AD!S GENTLEMEN
COME IN AND
SEE OUR
Decoration Day at Hays.
As usual Decoration Day was fitting
ly observed by the citizens of Hays.
At an early hour the patriotic citizens
began to gather at the G. A. R. Hall
each one bearing a bouquet or box of
flowers, and at about 10 o'clock the
procession formed, headed by the Fort
Hays Normal band. Next in order
came the old soldiers, sons of veterans,
boy scouts, and the citizens in automo
biles and carriages who marched to the
cemetery North of town and decorated
the graves of our fallen heroes and
other loved ones who have passed to
the unknown shores."'
In the afternoon the people again as
sembled at the Hall te listen to the
speaking and singing of patriotic song3.
Judge Dallas Grover of Salina, was the
orator of the day. In his remarks he
had occasion to touch upon the present
awful war now raging in Europe. He
said in part: "When the present slaugh
ter of humans is over, can any man tell
what caused the war or what it settled.
"The memory of the great, grand
and noble deeds do not fade and tha
Civil war soldiers had such supreme
contempt for death, a contempt that
has never been equaled. It was a peo
ple's war, not planned and schemed
years in advance."
The whole city participated in re
membering the day, the business men
by closing their places of business from
10 o'clock in the forenoon to 4 o'clock
in the afternoon, and in decorating with
flags and bunting. Many private resi
dents decorated their homes and a gen
eral spirit of patriotism and good will
prevailed throughout the city.
OBITUARY
Azela Desessard Royer was born Jan
uary 28, 1836; died May 27, 1916, aged
80 years, 3 months and 29 days. Her
father's name was John Baptist Deses
sard and her mother's name was Eulaiie
Lecountre, born of noble family and a
native of France. Came to the United
States in 1871 and resided in Ohio eleven
years. Came to Hays, Kansas, April 5,
1882. Her husband died December 6,
1886. To this union eight children were
born, five of whom are living.J Six chil
dren were born in France five sons and
one daughter. Two daughters were
born in Ohio.
Communicated .
FOOTWEAR
Right up to the last tick of the clock are
our styles in men's and women's summer
shoes. Oxford ties in black, tans and white;
women's low shoes in all the new materials
and shapes.
Our shoes fit your feet because we try
them on you and know that they will tit before
we sell them to you.
Our low shoes are high in QUALITY but
low in PRICE.
H. A. NICKLES, Hays Kansas
, ' Card of Thanks.
U We, the undersigned, extend our
j ' most heartfelt thanks to the friends and
I neighbors who so kindly assisted during
j the illness and death of our dear mother.
Alexis Royer.
I Zelie Royer.
Do you want to save money on
iyour farm loan? See us this
! month. We need your business
1 and will make a rate to get it.
! J. M. Schaefer
Card o! Thanks.
' The Committee in charge of the
Farmers Union Picnic desire to public
ly thank all those who so liberally
helped to make the picnic such a
grand snecess;. President Lewis and the
Normal Band boys, also Superintendent
Weeks for their noble help, Schwaller
Brothers for Lumber, the City Play
ground Committee and Nick Gassman,
"for the use for their seats, and the
Newspapers for their liberal advestis
ing. . John R. Chittenden,
John R. Ebert,
Carl Dinges.
Rev. A. S.
in Salina.
Hale, spent Wednesday
It pays to write your Hail Insurance
with Miller Brothers. They represent j less appreciate your business
the Strongest Companies in the
WORLD, and when you have a loss
ther are always on the job to look for
your interest. Don't wait until it is
too late. Phone or see them today.
Phone 47. Miller Brothers,
Hays, Kansas.
01 Interest to Farmers.
As usual, we are the first in the field
to pay hail losses to our farmers this
season. The fields of Mr. Jake Miller
and Mr. James Ross near Hyacinth,
were struck, by hail on Saturday, May
20th. On Wednesday, May 24th, we
settled these losses to the entire satis
faction of both parties. Can you beat
this for prompt settlement? If you
j have not insured yet, come in and do so
I before it is too late. Remember we do
i not haunt you to death, but neverths-
We will
write your hail business at cash rates,
without interest. You can always find
us at our office.
J. M. Schaefer Loan & Insurance Co.
You will save money by placing
your farm loan with us. We pay
cash as soon as papers are signed.
J. M. Schaefer.
John O'Laughlin is building a new
garage fronting on West Second Street.
Red pressed brick will be used for th e
front and the balance of the structure
will be of cement. This building when
completed will be a handsome addition
to the city and will be the home of the.
i Ford car, the most dependable, all pur-
t r TtT c mi t 1.1. ' pose automobile on the market today.
Rev. C. W. Seville, pastor of Luther- j i . , . . ... .. T.
an church at Gypsum. Colo., spent ! You will have to give it to the tin Liz
Thursday with Rev. Wiest. j zie you can't beat it.
ail Insurance
To Whom it May Concern:
W e, the undersigned, heartily recommend J. M. Schaefer of Hays, Kansas, to all those intend
ing to insure their growing wheat against Hail storms this season. Mr. Schaefer has demonstrated
to us last season that the business entrusted to his care will be honestly looked after. The compa
nies represented by him have treated their customers on the square in regard to adjustments and
prompt payment of losses.' In, making this statement voluntary, we feel that we sre not only giving
credit where credit is due, but also in justice to our brother farmers who are looking for a safe place
to do business.
D. F. McCarty,
Joe Bahl,
Peter J. Staab,
F. Schoendollar
and 48 others.
$ 575
523
140
1856
John F. Weigel, loss paid.. $2800
JohnSeitz, " " 100
James Ross, " " 511
' Henry Gottschalk " " . 312
CarlWerth, " " . 455
MR. FARMER:
I submit the above statement for your consideration before placing your insurance this year.
The Alminac predicts severe hail storms in 1916. Are you prepared? In 1915 we paid more than
50 claims for losses. The smallest was for $100; the largest for $2800, and not one dissatisfied cus
tomer. We have established a record for prompt payment of losses in 1915, why not place your
business with us this year? Don't let the other fellow talk ycu into insuring with an Irresponsible
Company but see us NOW. What is worth doing at all is worth doing quickly.
Our Patrons are Our Best Recommendation
Yours .for business,
- . : - J. M. SCHAEFER.
P. S. We will write your Hail business at cash rates, without interest Our losses will be
adjusted again by our own men, payment being made in the field on day of adjustment. Does this
sound right to you? . . - .. .
For County Commissioner.
j I hereby announce myself as candi
! date for the office County commissioner
' for the Second District of Eliis count-,
: subject to the decision of the voters
; of the republican party at the August
! Primarv. Frank King.
I "
! Miss Elsie Mae . Smith entertained
j a number of her school friends last
; Sunday, at the home of Mr. and Mrs.
; George Bellman.
I Mrs. Ga'lion and Miss Schoenhals,
; entertained to six o'clock dinner on
i
s Tuesday evening the families of Rev.
I Hale and Prof. Parker at the home cf
j the former.
I Mr. Litz living north of Gorham, last
i week, purchased the Unrein residence
property on Boot Hill and will move to
i Hays in a short time. The deal was
, made through the Miller Brothers
agency.
The young Catholic people of Victoria
' and Walker, held a picnic at old Fort
; Fletcher on Big Creek, Monday. A
pleasant time is reported by those pres
! ent and the Victoria band discoursed
,-some excellent music for the occasion.
1 Roy Slagle and wife, of Scott City
schools and Albert Whisnant and wife
I of Rush Center schools, Alfxed Rich
i mond of K. U. and Miss Eulalia McNay
j of Ellis schools are among the stu
j dents who are "returning" to Hays
I for the summer.
j All those wishing to make the drive
; to Rush Center to the Rush County
I Farmers Union Picnic to b2 held there
' on next Tuesday, June 6, will please
j line up on the south side of the Court
j House at 8:30 sharp 'so that all can
j leave in a body and arrive there at the
j same time.
j Sheriff A. O. Robinson was called on
! Monday night, to apprehend a man who
j was trying to break into Miss Condit's
1 residence in the west part of the city.
j When the Sheriff arrived on the scene
; it was too late to arrest the night
i prowler he having taken the hint and
made himself scarce.
C. W. Miller has rented his farm
; home just north of town to Mr. and
' Mra. Harding, from McCracken. Mrs.
j Harding has the distinction of being
the first female born in Abilene, there
fore she is one of the pioneer residents
of Kansas, whose parents moved here
j in an early day.
Mrs. Retta Freese Ingram and fain
. ily, aftera couple weeks visit here at
. her father's and with friends, returned
Monday evening, to their home in cen
i tral California, where he is agent cf
j the Southern Pacific Railroad at Le-
more, in the San Jouquin Valley. Go
by the way of the wonderful Rio Grande
Railroad through the mountains of
Colorado.
Why not get the best for your money
when an O'd Line Insurance Com
panies rates are the same. Miller
Brothers represent Hail Insurance
Companies with over 22,000,000 As
sests. Their Comnanies have all been
tried and tested. See or phone them
today. Phone 47. Miller Brothers,
Hays, Kansas.
Mrs. Gay Milham of Big Sandy, Mon
tana who has been visiting her parents,
Mr. 'and Mrs. H. A. Nickles, the past
ten days, will leave here for her home
Sunday. She will be accompanied to
Brighton, Colorado, by H. A. Nickle3
and family to be present at the mar
riage of Miss Wickart, a niece of Mrs.
Nickles.
The Rev. E. O. Rogers of the Eap
tist church gave the Baccalaureate ad
dress before the graduating class of
the Hays High Scheol at the Lutheran
church. The High School Chorus under
direction of Miss Sidenius, led the
singing. The subject and theme of
Rev. Rogers' sermon was "Vision."
He emphasized the need of young peo
ple looking forward to the broader and
higher ideas and ideals of life." -
Mrs. Hale will have summer classes
as usual in Elocution and Dramatic Ex
pression. We are glad to make this
announcement knowing what her teach
ing ha3 done for hundreds of our young
people. Her work has not been con
fined to Normal students alone, but to
the children in every school grade.
Several nearby town3 are also to be
represented in her classes thi3 summer,
and a number of Hays matrons, who
missed the opportunity to take this
work before, are preparing to take it
now.
Joe Addison, the young son of Mr.
and Mrs. Hiram Adilscn, came near
being seriously injured Wednesday af
ternoon by colliding with a motorcycle
driven by a young man by the name of
Leighton, a student at the Fort Hays
Normal school. Young Addison was
riding a bicycle when the accident oc
curred. However, baring a few bruises
and scratches on his right arm and leg,
he was uninjured. It was a lucky acci
dent and no blame is layed to Leigh
ton, as it was as much the fault of Joe
as it was his.
Otto Schwaller, former manager of
the Hays Mill, but now in charge of a
large mill at Clay Center, has been
here the past few days and was present
at the death and burial of his mother,
Mrs. C. Schwaller, who died Wednes
day, and was buried Thursday. Otto has
many friends in Hays, outside of his
relatives yrho would like 10 see him be
come a resident of Hays again. - Hard
headed business men and hustlers like
Schwaller are needed in western Kan
sas towns, especially in a growing
"coming to-the-front" "city like Hays.
HOW TO DRESS FOR OSTEOPATHIC
TREATflENT.
Many erroneous ideas are abroad as
to the way ladies prepare for osteopath
ic treatment. This explanation will
seem very unnecessary to the old pa
trons of osteopathy but is of interest
to those who have hid no experience.
For those who come to the office, let
us say that only the outer clothing and
tight bands, where they interfere with
manipulation, also the straight pins
are removed because they penetrate
fingers very "readil. They are re
placed by safety pins. A wrapper or
kirnona replaces the outer garments t
and the patient is ready for treatment. I
The many careless methods described j
by many, and attributed to osteopathy,
will ba found on investigation to be j
practiced only by the imitators of j
osteopathy (they are numerous,) and
not by graduates of reputable colleges.
Very sick patients, confined to the .
bed, usually need not make any change. '
Except in extreme cases it is un- i
i
necessary to treat even those cases op.
the skin. Of course the necs is treat
ed bare.
In some cases of high fever, such as
pneumonia, diptheria and similar grave !
and serious fevers better results are
often gotten if a very gentle, soothing
and cooling temperature reducing
treatment is given directly on the skin,
but, with these exceptions, treatment
is rarely so given. -
This should clear up the doubts raised
in the minds of many by second hand
knowledge offered by folks who are
guessing or who have visited some of
the various fakers who claim to be
practicing osteopathy.
Dr. T. H. Clover.
Hessian Fly Field Meetings.
Much of the damage done to the
wheat in Ellis county, has been due to
the Hessian fly. So far as we can learn
this is a new pest in Ellis county and
many of the farmers are unfamiliar j
with its life history and control. In
order that the whole matter may be ex- j
plained to the farmers of the county
and for the purpose of getting a united
effort toward the control of the pest
for another 3ear, we have arranged a
series of meetings. In this work we
will have the assistance of a state en
tomologist, Mr. T. H. Parks, and mem
bers of the Ha3s Station staff.
We hope the farmers in the various
communities indicated will take advan
tage of this opportunity and attend the
meeting most convenient.
Dates and places of meetings are as
follows:
Antonino 10 a. m., Monday, June 5
Schoenchen 3 p.m., Monday, June 5
Walker 10 a. m., Monday, June 5
Victoria 3 p. m., Monday, June 5
Hyacinth 10 a. m., Tuesday, June 6
Hopewell 1 p. m., Tuesday, June 6
Catherine 3 p. m., Tuesday, June 6
Pfeifer .10 a. m., Tuesday, June 6
Munjor 3 p. m., Tuesday, June 6
Saline Dean school house 10 a. m.
Wednesday, June 7.
W. A. Boys,
District Agricultural Agent, U. S.
Dept. of Agriculture.
Goldie Cole Adda Many to Her Long List
o! Admirers.
The Goldie Cole Stock Co., has been
playing under the big tent all this week
and the audiences have been "large and
demonstrative. Dainty -Goldie Cole
won all hearts, just as she" has done
everywhere else that she has played.
The performance might be ealled con
tinuous as there is excellent Vaudeville
between every act which makes things
interesting all through the evening.
Doing away with long waits which is
most satisfactory to the audience.
Mr. and Mrs. Thybault, were here
Monday, from Graham county, before
the probate court in a will case.
The United States Census Statistics
CONTAINS SOME INTERESTING FIGURES
These figures show that sixty-six, read it, (66) out
of 100 people dying in the United States have ab
solutely no estate. They die penniless.
Of the remaining thirty-four (34) persons, twenty-five
die with less than $1300,. and only nine (9)
persons in one hundred (100) have more than $5000
when they die.
The above figures are not estimates, idle guesses
or fiction, they are the facts, arrived at by the U.
S. Government in its Census reports.
The remedy is simple. Just save your money.
We will be glad to have you open an account
with us.
FIRST NATIONAL BANK
HAYS, KANSAS
The Thought of Getting Ahead
of nccumulating enough for a home or
for some other special purpose confronts
every ambitious man or woman at some
point along the road of life. No other
plan for saving the odd ends of one's in
come is so definite, so safe, yet so adapt
able to varying conditions as our bank
account plan. Come in and let us ex
plain to you the simple details of this
plan and why its use will enable you to
accumulate faster.
FARMERS STATE BANK
WALKER, KANSAS
1 r fFl
- . . f il i r i s I-i I s-. L I
S7
85 L o. b. Factory
Fred W. Dreiling
HAYS. - - - - KANSAS
Summer School.
The Summer School for the grades
will open Monday morning, June 5, at
the public school building. Sessions
will begin at 8 o'clock. Childrerf from
second to eight grades inclusive may
enter. No fee will be charged.
The Kindergarten will open June 14,
and will be in charge of Miss Boughton
supervisor of the kindergarten depart
ment of the State Nor Jial School at
LaCrosse, Wisconsin.
Hail-Hail-HaiL
An old line hail policy in the Connec
ticut is as safe as a; government bond.
Settlement immediate, no delay or red
tape. Your note for the premium.
H. W. Oshant.
Town (.ota.
I am having inquiries every day for
ten lots and small properties who want
sell at reasonable prices send me a list
and I will try and find you a customer,
a small commission charged. Harry
Freese, near Methodist church.
tXiscellanoas.
English, Russian, Gentlemen or
ladi3 who wish to learn pare Russian
are invited to communicate with Johan
nes Kadak, Fort Hays Experiment
Station, who in return is desirous of
learning English. The evenings preferred.
It is P. M. Dreilirg row, instead cf
B. M.
tg Z4ZZ CM- ZZ ?SZ t25 tSS, tSS ZHZ
99
x seiibatiuns oi a seu-maae gin wno suaaeniy nnas nerseir ietea ana ainea in
the highest society should be a source of comfort to those who have never
attained social success. Miss Edith Storev, who plays Glory Quayle in the
big 8-reel production, "The Christian' which will be seen at the
I"
I
m
w
w
- K
'
V -
ii iL
WO.
p
k
June 9tfea WW
hi
Y
LI
5 c
li
I
Got into society, and found it wasn't anything like she expected. -:- The
society was all in the play. Glory Quayle is taken up and made a social qeeen.
She has her coaching parties and receptions. Miss Storey, who is a Texan and
a com ti 3 n -sense sort of young .person, did her society turn before the camera,
and reported to her friends:
"Oh, yes, I was in society," she said. "I suppose we did it just as real society people would,
but I want to assure you Yd rather be a cow girl than a society belle. Society is all right for
those who enjoy it, but I was never content except when I felt sure that everyone was on his real
behavior. Society, cs I see it, is too much given over to humbugging your neighbor. Give me a
real girl pal, or a cleau-cut young fellow, and Td rather go to a good show with either cf them
than to be the queen cf the biggest ball in the world. Society will never turn my head, and I wish
I could get down to brass tacks and argue the question with some young girls I know, who have the
bee. There's only one kind cf -society worth having, and that's the kind founded on eld friendship."
i
