WEATHER
MARKETS
NEW YORK CITY
Average price of cop
per for week ending
May 31, 27.70.
I20NA Gsneraly
Associated Press Special Leased Wire Service.
VOL W, NO. 6.
BISBEE, ARIZONA, SATURDAY MORNING, JUNE 3, 1916.
PRICE FIVE CENTS.
G
ATTLE
:
RIG PIITQ IM
UIU UUIU 111:
PASSENGER :
RATES HIT I
&RI7HNA i
I II I llaWIIII
MATTER OF WEATHER.
DARK HORSE"
CANDIDATE
I CHS AT
KANSAS CITY, June 2 Job
bers anil reliners of petroleum
products from Nebraska. Color
ado. Texas, Calil'jrnia. Missouri,
Kansas end Oklahoma, the na
tional cnnvez:tion of Independ
ent Oil Men Zone Three, de
clared today that prices of gaso
line depend upon the weather.
If' this summer is as rainy as
last, the price jf gasoline may go
down, but if the summer is fav
orable to traveling, the price at
least will stay where it is and
possibly may go a notch or two
higher. The meeting will be in
session twq days.
A. J. Callaghan, of Jackson,
Michigan, was among the speak-
' ers today.
Effective August 1 Santa Fe'
And Southern Pacific - Can
Charge Only 3 Cents A
Mile I
RAY LINES ARE
SIMILARLY HIT
All Other Roads Escape Com
mission's Order, Including
E.P.&S.W. Ruling Long
Hung Fire
(By Review Lease: Wire)
PHOENIX, June 2 Three cent
passenger fare on the lines of the
Santa Fe and Southern Pacific,
and rates of three and one-half
and four cents a mile on the Ari- v
'zona Eastern are prescribed in
an order of the Arizona corpora
tion commission issued today.
Three cents a mile is also pre
scribed on the line of the Ray and
Gila Valley Railroad. Existing
passenger rates on ether rail
roads operating in Arizona are
not disturbed by the order, which
becomes effective August 1.
The commission's order affects all
the lines of the Santa Fe and South
era Pacific within the state, including
both uiain and branch lines, cr lines
being operated under lease. The three
cent rate, however, 1qcs not apply l)J
the Arizona Eastern arilroaci, a sub-
sidiary of the Southern Pacific com-i
pany, connecting rnoenix ana me
Salt River Valley with the main line
jf the Southern Pacific at Maricopa,
r.nd the Globe-Miami district with the
main line at Bowie.
A. 4 E. 4 Cents.
The passenger fare on the Arizona
Eastern is fixed at four cents a mile
on the Globe and Cochise divisions
and at three and one-half cents on the
Ph'jenix division, which includes the
line to Florence, Hayden and Winkel
man. The order as it affects the Ari
zona Eastern is effective for ninety
davs. at the end of which time the
GERMANS 10 j
FRENCH 1 i
ZEPPELINS AID."
FIERCEST
Charge After Charge Melts
Away Before Guns Of The
French, Yet Germans Gain
Firmer Foothold
London. June 3 Si:; Zeppelins
partic ipated in the naval engage
ment ;f the cost st of Jutland
Wi dr.isday. accurdins to a dis
patch from Copc.ihai,e:i .. the
Daily Mail. One of the dirigihlr's.
the L-21. was hit several times
and badly damaged, the report
said, but she was able to reach
the Schleswig coast. Several of
her men were wounded, and oil
of her supplies had to be ti'jwn
out.
A dispatch from the same
source declares it is generally
stated In Berlin that the activity
of tne German fleet was due to
the vnergetic demands of Emper-
or W illiam to his brother. Admiral
Prince Henry 'jf Prussia, com-
mancler in chief of the navy, and
Admiral von Capello. minister of
the navy, on the emperor's visit
lat week to Wilhelshaven.
ft
4c
TEN DESTROYER
DTOJircut
VNOZiaV XIN30Hd
TEUTONS' BOLD DASH
IS S AND
ST. WHILE
COSTS THE
SMALL GIFT
DAMLOUP VILLAGE
IN TEUTONS' HANDS
BEG NAVY BiLU
Germans Launch Powerful Of
fensive Against Russians,
While Austrians Hammer i
Italians Back
With Big Chance Of Win
ning Against Entire G. O.
P. Field
REPUBLICANS TO i
man, and Burton 'Will Also
Run For Nomination
(By Review Leased Wire.
LONDON. June 2. Again the Ger
mans have tried, but ineffectually, to
But Roosevelt Is Boomed Now brpak t,,e Fren,n Upe near Fo, t VfUX'
northeast of Verdun. In fighting
characterized by Paris as having been i
of unprecedented violence, the Ger- J
turns threw "attack after at'ack j
against the French line, but the
Prench eiins tor ecreat holes in their
MEET PROGRESSIVES! ranks and threw them back. In .td-
dition reinforcing battalions were
IJ,,L Df ", 'caught bv th French guns as Ihey es-
Hughes, Root Cummms, Rav;d to throw tnpri,Hv,,s ,n,0 thP
Weeks, Fairbanks, ' Sher- frov and were forced to retreat in
disorder.
Germans Win.
At one point, however. In the sec-
V,r 0f Dan-loup, east of Fort V.-.ux. the J
'Bv Review Leased Wire.) . " Germans canmred a 1 portion of the J
CHICAGO, June 2. There were village, the other parts of which are i
numerous conferences between party occupied ty the French. To tlie west:
of the Meusp around Hill Number
PASSES HOUSE I
BY GREAT
UOfillY
Biggest Amount Ever Voted
For Navy, $369,000,000,
Rides To Victory With
Four Dissenting- Votes
i
SENATE MAY EVEN j
ADD TO FIGURES!
Five Battle Cruisers Believed
Good, But Not Enough,
Two More Dreadnaughts
Wanted By Republicans
LONDON. June 2. Picking its way from Its base In the Kiel Canal the German high seas fleet on Wednesday
afternoon entered the North Sea and off the coast of Jutland engaged a British fleet throughout the afternoon and
night in what probably was the greatest naval battle In the world's history so far as tonnage engaged and ton
nage destroyed was considered.
When the battle ended Great Britain had lost the battle cruisers Queen Mary, Indefatigable and Invincible, th
cruisers Defence, Black Prince and Warrior, and eight torpedo boat destroyers, while the German battleship I'ora
mern had been sent to the bottom by a torpedo and the cruiser Wiesbaden sunk by the British gun fire. In addi
tion several German torpedo craft were missing and the small cruiser Frauenlob had last been seen badly listing
and was believed to have gone to the bottom. These losses have all been admitted by Great Britain and Germany.
BIGGER LOSSES CLAIMED
Aside from Great Britain's conceded losses, Germany claims that the British battleship Warspite, sisUer ship
of the Queen Elizabeth, and one of the largest and most powerful ships afloat bad been sunk, that the battleship
Marlborough, a evssel of 25,000 tons, had been hit by a torpedo and a submarine had been destroyed. Great
Britain also added to Germany's losses with the claim Lhat one dreadnaught of the Kaiser class vessels of 24.700
tons and carrying a compliment of 10S8 men had been attacked and destroyed by their torpedo craft, that an
other battleship of the same class was believed to have been sunk by gun fire, that one battle cruiser bad been
blown up and two others damaged and that a submarine also had been sent to the bottom.
GERMAN LOSS LIGHT
Great Britain's admitted losses in tonnage was 114, SI 0 for six battle cruisers and cruisers. That of Germany,
excluding the tonnage of the Wiesbaden, of which vessel there Is no record, was 15.172. The tonnage of the capital
ships sunk by the Japanese in the fight with the Russians in the Tschumian Bay in 1905 aggregated 9:5.000. Tenly
one Russian craft were destroyed in this Tight, including c.ix battleships and four cruisers. The remainder of the
sunken craft comprised coast dejense aud special service '-esse!" and torpedo boats.
ONLY TWO SURVIVE
That the casualties in t'ie fighting off Jutlnr.d were heavy is indicated by the fact that of the crew of some
900 aboard the indefatigable only two men are known to have been saved. Full details of the fighting, in which
Zeppelins are declared to have taken part, are being gathered by the British admiralty and pending their receipt
the censor is withholding permission to correspondents to send out stories from Ijmdon.
leaders today but -t'j far as could be
loarnoH nt BiriMtnAnt nn fa nil i.lu te n . , . t i v. . i. . . : 1 .
........ .... - - ,vt ana 1- .icin lini:i'ir. u " : I wi".ir- j
was reached and there was no devel- are engaged in fierce artillery duels.
opmeni tnat accurately lnuicaieu Attack Russians.
which candidate was likely to nomin- 0n ,hp nllai..jan front the Germans a naval appropriation bill larger by
ate for president. again have brought the Ikskull bridge meny millions than ever before con-
While on the surface the fight ap- nea(j nnder bombardment and at sev- j siilered in congress passed the house
8v Ppview Leasee' Wire
WASHINGTON, June 2 The sec-
lond of the big preparedness measures,
' i ' . : v:n f k..
STRATEGY OF SEA BRITISH VERSION GERMAN VERSION
BATTLE EXPLAINED ' OF BIG BATTLE OF THEIR VICTORY
BY U. S. NAVY MEN
pears to be between Rc'jsevelt and
Hughes, or Roosevelt against the
field, there was marked activity at
the headquarters of the various fav
orite son candidates. Managers of
Ro'jt, Weeks, Burnton, Fairbanks,
Cummins and Sherman booms insisted
that their candidates would remain in
eral other ooints along the lino-are us-j late today almost unanimously, it
ing their big guns aei'.'nst ' the Rus-, carries a building -program for the
sians. An infantry attack near New j next year of five battle cruisers, four
elbourg. was put down by the Rus
sians. Desperate Fighting.
Rome reports desperate fighting
road is to. furnish t'.e comnassion j;- Adige and H-nta rivers
n-itti ! rt Huto T t ft A nrOUrn nPfl I . I I I Inniv K-. Dad i o n si aniti hact nf Ap.
w nil tri lam uti mi v f - -'-
- J i n.l n Vi a now
jAj either to one of the favorite sons
or to a dajk horse. .The plan of the
old organization leaders is said to be
to try and win first with Root and if
they fail in this eft'jrt to give Burton
u eeks, Fairbanks and Sherman a
order.
Commission Supreme.
The commission's order is the result
of an exhaustive investigation of
passenger rates within the state f
Arizona. When Arizona became a
state one of th first bills to pass the
legislature provided for three cent
fare on all railroads of the state. A
referendum was invoked against the
measure, but bel'jre the next election
the state supreme court handed down
a decision which left all regulation of
railroad rates to the corporation com
mission. The referred measure was
approved by a large majority at the
general election in 1914, but the vote
on the question had no effect at that
time in the light of the supreme court
decision.
Others Untouched.
Existtng passenger rates range
fi'jm four to ten cents a mile, the
latter high rate applying on some of
the smaller roads to mining camps.
MEXICO TO TAKE
OVER RAILWAY
Kansas City, Mexico & Orient
Impressed Into Service
Carrying Ties
(By Review Leased wire.j
CIIIIU'AIirA CITY, June 2. The
Mexican de fac;'j government is con
sidering taking over the Kansas City
Mexico and Orient railway in order
to bring into use half a million ties
stored at the western terminus of the
road, it was announced officially here
fjday. Another reason for the pro
posed move pointed out is to expedite
the repair of the trunk line railroads owp1 ' otherwi!J
lilt- UKlll Ulllll llic triiu. 1 lltry ucuairu - , r
that tabulating the votes claimed for Alo"K he Posina- and southeast of Ar-
with heavy casualties. Borbardments
predominate along the greater part
of the remainder of the front.
Constantinonle says the Russian
center in the Cacasus region has been
forced to retire twenty kilometeisin
scout cruisers, ten destroyers, fifty
submarines" and 130 aeroplanes, pro
vides for a government armor plate
plant, authorize sand increase of near
ly 17.CMI enlisted men, and appropri
ates a total of $369,900,000.
As passed the bill is in substantial
ly the same form as framed by the na
val eoiiiTittee. Only a few amend
ments were adopted during a week of
debate, and a final effort by Republi
can leaders to have the measure re-
fRv Review Leasee Wire.
LONDON, June The British ad
'. " ; miralty announced today that a bat-
I no.. r M M. i II.. rt itle had occurred in the North Sea.
Losses Do Not Materially Ef-!b(.twe.n lUe pritish and Gnrman
feet Strength Of Either fleets, in the course of which a niim-
Ftf C,v P-vrvnefa C r Der f German warships wer sunk, which
ricci, jay experts. ver-. . h.,, ,.,iM ,,. r.riiin
mans Praised .
(By Review Leae.i Wire!
BERLIN, June 2. Germany's high
s-a fleet met the main part of ihe
British t'Wt in battle in the North
eastern section of the North Sea on
May 31. In the heavy engagement
followed the Gern.an fleet, ac-
ing to a report issued by the Ger-
and Invincible
, Indefatigable
: sunk.
, The cruisers Defemre
(By Review Leased Wire.) The cruisers Defence and
WASHINGTON. June 2. Naval of-1 Prince also were sunk and the crul
were man admiralty, sank fhe British bat
tle ship War?p;te. the British battlij
Black cruisers Queen Mary and Indefatig
able, three armoured cruisers, and a
committed with instructions to add
tryout in the convention in the order' the face of the Turkish attacks and two battleships, two scout cruisers
t the ovont f railing ,,t the Turks repulsed a surprise attack pnd ten destroyers was beaten, 1S9
over any of these the plan is to try on the Turkish left wing. i to 183. The fight will be resumed in
and win with a dark horse, according i "e senate.
t'j reports in circulation. Senator War- ELEANOR SEARS LOSES Only four representatives voted
ren G. Harding, of Ohio, and Governor TO MISS BJURSTADT ! against tl-e passage of the bill. The
McCall. of Massachusetts, were men- four negative votes were cast by Rep-1
tioned as possibilities. PHILADELPHIA. June 2 Miss resentatives Browning. New Jersey,
"Favorite Sons." - Molla Bjurstadt. the woman lawn ten-, and Graham. Republicans: Randall.
Friends of Rc'jsevelt claim be will'nis champion, won the singles cham- j California. Prohibitionist, and London,
win after the farmality of giving the pionship of the women's Pennsylvania j New York. Socialist.
"favorite son" candidates a compli-'and Kastern States Tournament by With the passage of the bill the;
mentary vote has been disposed of defeating Miss Elenora Sears of Bos-1 house completed the major portion of
while Hughes supporters declared: ton in Philadelphia today on the jits shares of tli preparedness pro
that their candidate would be n'jinin- courts of the Macon Cricket Club, 1 groin, the last of the three bills car
(Contlnued on Pace 4i 6-3. 6-3. j ryin? the imiKirtant provisions for tho
jnrn,y anlj navy.
wwr. m i Twenty-five Democrats voted with
(Jbreeon Lootoerates With Americans i ,he Rbiicans today fr the motion!
s . to recommit the building program.
Despite Carranza's Defiant Note 1
j out of the bill by the house comm't
" ' tee and r.n additional battle cruiser
added as a compromise to meet the
demands of the so-called "little na
vy" men.
Although .the house voted down
n ost of the recommendations of a mi
nority report submitted by llepubli-
ficers and members of the congres ser Warrior was disabled. The Ger- 'ry number of warships of smaller
s.'jnal navy committees were eagerly . man losses are described as serious, tonnage. Several other British bjt-
waitiug tonight details, of the naval' The announcement says two Ger- tleships ar;- reported damaged, includ-
battle between German and British. man bnttlecruisers were sunk and ing the battleship Marlborough.
The meagre reports" established be-1 two German light cruisers were dis The German losses are announced
yond question that it was the most nbled and probably sunk. as the battleship Pommern. the crui
omportant engagement of the war in j The British destroyers Tipperary. ' s-r Wiesbad-n. the protected cruiser
points of ships inolved and its ef- Turbulent. Fortune. Sparrow Hawk Frauenlob and several torpedo boats.
feet otherwise may be. j an(j Ardent were lost and six others
Lacking knowledge of the lasses by severely damaged. The admiralty an- German Version
the German fleet, officers here would i nouncement says no British battle- r;-Rl IX June ' --Admiral Heb-
not hazzard statements as to Where Mi.jnti nr armored cruisers were sunk v- t. ' ' j- ' . Z j
ti. . ..i. ....... ,i -i .i r i ,Hn,pa or armorn i misers mer sunn, tmchr.us. director of the admiraltv
the victory rested. While the British The htile ...rnrr.rt off the coast of . ,j .... .
- " - tiihi fl-e .firtiMa? Ulis HITerilCKin I Hill.
the British torpedo boat losses wer
nu...,u .i ...u.r- 7.in..-,. a- jmiand. The admiralty announ
corfliug to the omcfal tsatements or m,.nt saV!, ,hR (;HnBn fie,.t avoided
both countries, ihey parried an at- . n,ain i;ri)ish forPeH anil returned
tempted raid and drove a considerable , Kever,,iv damaged,
fleet back to its base without its hav-
ing come in sight of the English E,3ht Detr1er5'r . .. ,
coast, they claim. On the other hand, LONDON. June 2. -The I,nt!sh ad
if the movement of the Germn fleet t iraltv offic ially annouti.ed last night
described merely as an enterprise by t the total number of British de
the German official statement, was siroyers lost in me umai
only an exercise cruise as an attempt nient was eight.
to lure the enemy into a trap, ap- German Losses.
greater than had fi'st been reported.
At least three of the destroyer flo
tilla flatsliios. said Admiral Hebbin
hans and nine or ten otfier de;toyrrs
had been sunk.
Of thes, the battleship Wtstfalen
alone sank six. The German battle-
engage- ship Pommern was sunk by a torpe
do, the ad'V.iial continued and the
Weisbaden by artillery. The Frauen-
(Bv Review Leasea Wire.) the m'jst part, distributed , In small
WASHINGTON. June 2. Despite commands to police definite sections,
the threatening tone of General Car-i News of renewed activity by Zapata
ranza's iast note his military forces in followers in southern Mexico, officially
Chihuahua state are being disposed in , reported i'o the state department, may
general accord with the plan disclosed , change the military disposition of the
by General Obregon during his con- Mexican forces in Chihuahua if the can members of the committee, in
ference at El Paso with Generals situation is as serious as indicated crepses totaling more than $40,000,000
Scott and Funston. This was sh'own and General Obregon may be com-(were added to committee figures.
today when General Funston sent pelted to Withdraw some .f his troops I .
word that the 20,000 Carranza soldiers in the north. Official reports have 1 PERSHING REPORTS
mobilized within the last few days at placed the number at 20.000. At any; GAVIRA CONFERENCE.
Chihuahua City had been spread over rate, officers here think a large enough j
me region not concemraieu uy tm- portion oi v arranza s avauaoie lorces
eral Pershing's Olumn in a way to have been moved n'.irth o weaken his!
carry out an active pursuit of bandits, control over the southern bandit j
Secretary Baker said he now knew areas,
of nothing to prevent the sending of There were no indications todav
new expeditions into Mexico after that the state department was nrepar .
raiders, provided a ht trail was fol- ing to make an earlv replv to the de-
se. he declined to dis- mand for withdrawal .r for n definite
parently the victory was theirs. 1 The announcement adds that the " "st -n t a Uen-ian c.e-
The location jf the light threw no German battlecruisers either the s'royer In a night encounter with a
light on these questions. IVrefflinaer or Lutzow was blown up. j heavy list, and the d:niral:y s-aid it
It took place, according to the el- another was seen to have been dis- Rssumed hre satk.
tidal statements, some place north f HMcd and a third to be seriously dam- '.
Hoinriff off the lower coast of Den- a!jprt Sxon Kinq Rrjaices.
mark. Presumably the Gennan fleet 0nf, Grrnlan iicll, rn,iSer ond Six ! LONDON. Jine 2 A Reuter s tle
came out of Wilhelinshaven and re- Qrrn an torpedo boat destroyers were cram from Amsterdam says a mes
turned to that port. ! sunk and at least two more iight crui-1 ""e received there from Dresden
S'jiue officer thought It possible s(,tg w,.re disabled. 'elves a despatch to Kt'neror William
that the scouting aircraft had located " ' 'by King Frederick August of Saxony
the British cruicers off the Danish: Snatches of Battle. ; in connection with the news of the
coast. The British statements says! LONDON June 2. A ' despatch ! naval tattle in the North Sea. The
the battle cruisers, light armored :!,;,..; ' iwnmnrlc" t,i Renter's m.sssce of the Saxon kinp follows:
T.in.nn, i ., mnt under date oi : "W ith great joy nd extrordinary
COLUMBI'S. June 2. A message,
annroviatelv 1.400 words long, was
I received at the army wireless station
I here late toriay'containing Genera! J.
'.I. Pershing's report of his conferences
lyestcrdpv w'th Cnral Gabril Gavira.
i coT'stitnt ionlist commndr of northern
' Fhihnrhna. The despatch, whic h was
Of Mexico bV having facilities tO llca alulnmotilln Ihn Parratl?! nnlo ototo ,on nf Iku Intnntinno nf 1
transport the necessary timber fi'Jtu particularly those that contend that Cnited States towards Mev'co. higcdy in code, v as transmitted imme-
the wooded sections of the country. (General Scott promised no more President Wilson himself has stated : ,I,a,r,-v " (e-neral hreclertck Htnston.
Reports received at military head- trc'jps would be sent into Mexico. his views fullv and cleariv. both in I ,n p!,n Anton"- no Inkling of its con-
nuarlera tnrlav frnni Torreon tld of Armv nfllrem whn studied the Mer. nnhlic aridrouiM inH tn nffiXal nt:jte. Ion,s necoming p-ipnc n re.
the capture of Luz Elias de Perez, the lean trooo dispositions as reported by ments to the American neonle. T iey
last prominent outlaw leader of the 'General Funston, said they appeared fel ulsh thit the rood faith of thne
section. He was found hiding in a to be in accord with a plan rb polic" statements has been demonstrated on
pcr quarter of that city, the dispatch the country, snd did not indicate ths so many occasions that thev cannot
said, and will be sent to prison in ' praparation of an unfriendlv demon- be questioned eiriouslv: Their atti
Monterey for numerous crimes in that strati on toward General Pershin-i's tude in this campaign may be rcflect
district during the Villa regime. force. The Mexicans have been, for eA in the American reply.
Work of preparing the aviation sec
tion of the New Mexico National
Guard began here today with the ar
rival of a recently, obtained biplane.
It is expected that the plane, when as
sembled, will be used for scouting
purposes along the border.
cruisers and light cruicers. bore the
brunt 'it the engagement. It also in
dicates hazy weather. I'nder these
circumstances it was thought possible
that German commander saw an op
. - .. , several points on the
cruisers before a supporting fOrce of . ' . ' , , . .
dreadnaught Pommern was sunk'
shows that the Germans had battle
shins with them.
-h.. .i... r....- ro k. i.'x.,., (Thursdav a
i.sfrnni
Thnrsdav savs- ;eninusiasm i nave just leamea oi tne
"Fmm 4 o'clock vesterdav and dur- brilliant ic!or yof our Reel over the
ing the greater part of the night a considerr-hly superior main part or
heavv cannonading was heard from the English bsttl- fleet. This is one
est coast of ' "nest navs oi nils time tor cur
.. i,rnk..n latneriancl. I mr Iieej snoweel "useir
British battleships could some to their ' , ' . j . I unite the ecnal of our nrmv"
aid. The fact that the Germans pre. , '-re and people left their bed to as- M.u.te the equal ofmir army.
"At midnight a Zeppelin passed over. Late Details,
the const. At 11 this morning' LONDON. June 3. A British offi-
Germany destroyer ap- cinl commnnU ption just issued says.
came to support the' light craft, ac- V'ren on wTnr i.y . .!..--...,. - . . A
cording this view, the (iermni d. - engine troubl- and unable to pro-: the commander in chief of the grand
cided to draw off to Wllheliu.Ouven Ar 3 o'clock in the afternoon fleet sta mg that it bss now been as
and a running night light down t..e enother Ger-can destroyer arrived and certained that out tola losses in d
Danish coast ensued 'rft n hour later with the disah'ed stroyers amounts to eitrht boats in all.
Neither official' statement tells how destroyer in tow." , The commander in chief also reports
the British battlecruisers were lost.' D-tails Larkinq. that if )f. now poss-ble to form a closer
whether bv gunfire or torpedoes. j LONDON. June 2 - The offic ial estimation of the losses and the dam
The battle has not materially af pr" bureau at 11 o'c lock tonight is ate sus-xmed by the enemy f!eet.
fetted tne relative strengtH of the sued the following statemect: C-erman Losses Meavy.
fleets, accordine to the view-of Aiu"ri- "Owinu to lack of inforinatioo V "Ow drctdrtught tattlestip ef the
can officers. The Germans admit tbs are unable to pass various srrounts of raiser ciass was Dion up in an at
losses do no
(Coin in
ine uennsns sajau ins are tmanie to pB iirmw munm w ...r. -n
nt represent a serous im- the sea battle that are being submit tack bv Pritisb destroyers, and anoih
lined on rase Five.) ted. ( (Continued on Pate Five.)
