I I
IK ' H
: j H
I I Today's Melal Prices fflt A. fftiv"j. SLiwXvi'vX 4 P. M. CITY EDFTION I I
, ULUf V7flvUlallUcllU mNT mb I
K $296o29 25. P ' ' PPCr' " O' ' CJ ' d Saturday Not Much Change In H
B ' , . FEARLESS, INDEPENDENT, PROGRESSIVE NEWSPAPER. : J J kW
m Frty.sixth Year-No. 133. Price Five Cent.. OGDEN CITY, UTAH, SATURDAY EVENING, JUNE 3, '1916. i Entered a8 Second Class Matter at the Postofflce, Ogden, Utah. lj
i - " " 'lH
I Five Thousand Men on British Ships and 3000 on German Side Went Down
j in the Fight in North Sea British Have Eight German Warships Bottled I
I Up in Danish Port Losses of Germans Greater Than at First Reported.
I BRITISH DREADNOUGHTS WERE
I NOT SIMJJHHE GERMANS
Marlborough and Warspite Both Safe in Harbor, But Both
Were Damaged Main Battleship Fleet Is Intact Brit
ish Still Claim Control of North Sea and Admiralty
Report Cheers the Naval Officers.
The Hook, Holland, via London, June 3, 10:40 a. m.
One of the Frauenlob survivors, Midshipman Stolzmann, said
he believed he and his companions who were brought here
were the only men to escape. He reports that his ship was
fighting from six o'clock in the evening until one o'clock in the
I morning when she was torpedoed.
Other survivors say the British were hopelessly outnum-
J bered by the Germans who had their latest dreadnpughts in
I action and thought the British were easy prey. Suddenly the
ft British grand fleet came up and the Germans made a running
$ fight of it.
f London, June 3, 4:42 p. m. The German admiralty ad-
I mits the loss of the dreadnought Westfalen, according to a
wireless dispatch received here today from Berlin.
The German battleship Westfalen displaced 1 8,602 tons.
I She was 45 1 feet long, 88 feet beam and 26 feet deep. She
I carried a compliment of 961 men. The Westfalen was
5 equipped with twelve 1 1-inch guns, twelve 5.9-inch guns and
I a number of pieces of smaller caliber. She was also fitted with
I six 1 8-inch torpedo tubes. Her speed was 20.4 knots. The
jf Westfalen was built in 1 909 at a cost of approximately $ 1 0,-
I 000,000.
II London, June 3, 1:51 p. m. An official statement given
I out today shows that with a few exceptions all the officers on
B the Invincible, Queen Mary, Indefatigable, Defence and Black
ll Prince were lost. All the officers of the Warrior except one
if j
l were saved.
1 j London, June 3, 2:32 p. m. An Exchange Telegraph
I dispatch from Copenhagen says the German torpedo boat
I V-28 was sunk during the naval engagement. Three sur-
I vivors, who were rescued from a raft by a Swedish steamship
reported, the dispatch says, that all the rest of the crew of 1 02
(J i I were lost. According to this statement the survivors of the
I h V-28 said they believed twenty German torpedo boats were
j ' ! destroyed and that the German losses as a whole were
$ colossal.
;i .
i i London, June 3, 1 0:30 a. m. A report from The Hague,
J I as forwarded from Amsterdam to the Central News, says six
i I German destroyers were sunk by the British and that a large
I cruiser severely damaged was towed into the harbor at Kiel.
j It is estimated I 50 ships were engaged in the battle.
I f Fuller details of the great naval bat-
M tlo off Horn's Reef in the North sea
M emphasizes the advantage gained by
the Germans in inflicting heavy loss
m if es upon the British fleet while escap-
I ing with considerably smaller damage
P ft themselves.
5 'J German estimates of the tonnage de-
I stroyed place It at 133,000 tons on the
1 British and 23,000 on the German side.
I These figures, however, probably in-
t elude the British battleship Warspite
I 27,500 tons which the British an-
I : nounco is safe.
I Battleship Fleet Not Engaged.
I It has not appeared from any of the
I f accounts that the British main battle-
I '? ship fleet was actually engaged. Zop-
pelin airships played an important
I part in the engagement as scouts.
I ;, The Germans, continuing their ef-
t forts to force the French lines north-
' east of Verdun have penetrated a
I 5. deep ditch north of the main French
I : positions at Fort Vaux.
II ';
I . London, June 3. The German
i dreudnnught Westfalen of 18,000 tons
1 . haB been added to the steadily grow
t S list vessels sunk in the great
P K naval engagement off the Jutland
J K coast, according to a wireless des
7 B patch from Berlin, which says the
) Bf German admiralty admits the Iosb of
3 B this warship.
j mm Additions earlier in the day were
S Hp the German cruiser Elbing, displacing
5 Hi. between 4,000 and 5,00 tons and the
t HI British destroyer Shark. Nearly all
It the men-who manned the destroyer
2 Ht' weer lost.
The latest British statement re
garding the outcome of the engage
ment shows that the admiralty views
it as not at "all unfavorable to the
British. It is declared that they
sought out the Germans, engaged
their entire fleet with inferior forces
atid compelled them to put back to
port andgive up "any plan of action
they may have contemplated."
The losses on the British side, esti
mated at 5,000 men, may be nearly
matched by those of the Germans, If
the latest reports on the number, of
German warships lost are confirmed.
In the British casually list are include
ed Captain Prowse, and the entire
compliment of the battle cruiser
Queen Mary, which probably had be
tween 900 and 950 men on board.
Rear Admiral Horace Hood was last
with the battle cruiser Invincible.
Two of the Zeppelins which played
such an important part In the engage,
ment by keeplng the Germans in
formed of the British fleet's 'movo
mcntB were destroyed, according to re
ports brought in by Danish fisher
men who declare tbat the entire crew
of one of the airships perished when
their craft was burned.
Wounded men from the engagement
have begun to arrive in London,
cheered by the crowds assembled to
meet them.
According to one report today, Brlt
lsh warships are watching off the
Danish coast for the appParance of
eight German warships which are de
clared to have taken refuge In Dan
ish ports after the North sea battle,
being given 24 hours to leavc by
Danish outhorUIe8.
Warships In Danish Waters.
London, June 3, 1:40 p. m. There
is a report in circulation which lacks
confirmation that eight German war
ships took refuge in Danish waters
after the North sea battle. It is said
they were notified to leave within 24
hours and that the British fleet Is
waiting for them.
Marlborough Towed In.
London, June 3, 4.30 p. m. The
British admiralty stated today that the
British batleship Marlborough was hit
by a torpedo but was towed safely
to port.
The dreadnought Warspite was dam
aged by gunfire, the admiralty added,
but escaped torpedoes
According to the official report, the
Marlborough must have struck a nest
of submarines, as she escaped three
torpedoes immediately before she was
hit by the fourth.
The admiralty has received official
information, it was stated, that the en
tire British battle fleet, with the ex
ception of the Marlborough, was coal
ed and refitted and ready for sea ser
vice within a few hours after its re
turn to port.
Vice Admiral Beatty Saved.
London. June 3. 3.40 p m The
Evening News states that Vice Admir
al Sir David Beatty, who was in com
mand of the battle cruiser squadron,
was not harmed
Wounded Men Brought Home.
London, June 3, 4:25 p m. Wound
ed men from the North sea battle
reached London today. They were
quickly removed to hospitals or their
homes by Red Cross ambulances.
The public was strictly prohibited
.from talking to the men but crowds
assembled at the railway stations
cheered them.
Marlborough and Warspite Not Sunk.
London, June 3. 11 10 a. ra Cap
tain William Hall, chief of the intelli
gence division of the admiralty, au
thorizes The Associated Press to say
,.aThe German report of tho loss of
the Marlborough and Warspite is ab
solutely untrue. Both of these dread
noughts are safe in harbor.
"The German report that the entire
British battle fleet was engaged Is
equally untrue. A portion of the Brit
ish fleet, much inferior to tho total
battle fleet of the Germans, engaged
that fleet and drove it back jnto its
harbors. The British control the
North sea."
Vice Admiral Scheer Commands.
Amsterdam, via London, June 3,
6:40 a. m Advices from Berlin say
(hat Vice Admiral Scheer, commander,
of the German battle fleet, was in
personal command of the German for
ces in the battle of Jutland while the
scout division was under the direction
of Vice Admiral Hipper. The German
forces consisted of the German high
seas fleet with dreadnoughts, older
ships of the line, battle cruisers, al
the light sea forces at present in the
North sea, torpedo boat destroyers
and submarine flotilla
Admiral Hipper Meets Enemy.
Admiral Hipper came in contact
with the enemy about five in the af
ternoon when he engaged a squadron
of British battle cruisers and light
cruisers Subsequently the whole
fleets on both sides engaged and the
fighting lasted until nine In the even
ing 'Later on In the night there were
sharp engagements between torpedo
boat destroyers and cruisers. The
leading German vessels alone sank
six modern destroyers.
AH reports from the German sea
forces which participated in the battle
agree on the bravery shown by the
enemy In tho long battle. The crews
of tho German torpedp boats which
were sunk have not been heard from
but tho majority of the men on the
other vessels which were, lost were
rescued despite the unfavorable wea
ther. Naval airships gave valuable
aid in reconnoltering before and after
the battle.
Scheer Successor to Von Pohl.
Vice Admiral Scheer was appointed
commander of the German battle fleet
in February of this year, succeeding
Admiral von Pohl who retired on ac
count of ill health. Admiral Hipper
was in command of the German sqlad
ron which fought a battle with the
British Bquadron under Admiral Sir
David Beatty off Heligoland In Janu
ary 1915, It was in this battle that
the German cruiser Bleucher was
sunk.
British Public Downcast.
London, Juno 3, 9:50 a. m. -The
British public, who retired last night
cast down by tho first news of the
North sea battle as contained in the
earlier British and German reports,
took some comfort from- the later
British reports published in the morn
ing papers. This report, while it did
not decrease the "British losses except
in destroyers, which were reduced
from eleven to eight, shows the losses
of the Germans were much greater
than was at first estimated.
German Losses Reported.
According to this latest account of
the naval engagement the German
losses Include two battleships, one
battle cruiser, one light cruiser and
six destroyers sunk, two battlecruisers
damaged and three battleships hit.
Naval writers also point out that the
German fleet retired as soon as' the
main British fleet appeared on the
scene so that there Is no question
about the superiority of sea power re
maining in British hands. The loss
of British ships is of course admitted
ly serious while the loss in officers
and men has cast a gloom over the
whole country.
Survivors of the Frauenlob.
The Hook, Holland, June 3, via
London, 9:30 a. m. The tugboat
Thames has arrived here with eight
men of the crew of the cruiser Frau
enlob which was sunk in the naval
battle off Jutland. They say that the
warship went to the bottom ten min
utes after she was struck. Nothing
is known of the fate of the remainder
of the crew of 350
London, Friday, June 2, 11:27 p. m.
(Delayed In transmission.) Careful
comparison of the British and the
German reports of the sea fight off
the Danish coast seem to indicate that
Vice Admiral Sir David "Beatty's cruis
er squadron came in contact with the
German majn fleet, or possibly in the
first instance, a portion of that force.
Although aware tha he was oppos
ing a stronger force than his own, the
afficial statements make it appear,
naval observers say, that Vice Admiral
Beatty courageously engaged the Ger
mans. Later presumably the whole
German fleet appeared. Vice Admiral
Beattv was then completely outnum
bered and before Admiral Jellico's
main fleet was able to get lto action
the Germans made off.
British naval experts comment on
the apparently fair and impartial -nature
of both the German and British
official statements. It is believed the
German losses were greater than was
admitted in the official reports but it
is noticeable that the German com
munlcation confessed to more serious
losses than were given in the British
report
According to estimates made here,
which in the absence of official fig
ures can only be conjecture, the Brit
ish losses in men must be somewhat
in the neighborhood of 5.000 It Is
similarly estimated that' the German
losses were at least between 2,000 and
3,000 men.
No attempt is made here to mini
mize the seriousness of the British
losses In ships and men and that, ac
cording to present -information, the
German fleet had the best of the action
Eighty-flve of Crew Lost
London, June 3, 12-26 p. m Eighty
flve of the crew of 92 men aboard the
British destroyer Shark were lost in
tho belief of seven survivors who were
landed at Hull yesterday by a Danish
steamship. These men were picked
up in the North sea Thursday. One
of the men since has died and two oth
ers are badly wounded.
Although the Shark was not named
in the official reports of Brjtish losses,
it was said several destroyers in ad
dition to those identified as lost had
not been accounted for.
Steamship Golconda Sunk.
London. June 3, 2:03 p. m. The
British steamship Golconda, of 5,871
tons gross, has been sunk off Orford
nosB, according to an announcement
today by Lloyd's. Four or five mem
bers of the crew are missing.
Three German Ships Torpedoed.
Berlin, June 3, Wireless to Sayville.
"Swedish newspapers report that
throe German steamships havo been
torpedoed by a submarine, probably
in Swedish waters, and that no warn
ing was given," says the Overseas
News Agency. "Six men perished.
Inasmuch as a British torpedo was
found near Skolberviken, the Swedish
press considers it certain that tho
shlpB were torpedoed by a British
submarine.
Austrian Advance Continues.
Berlin, June H, ivlrfiess to Sayville.
The Ausro-Hungarlan advance into
Italy in the southern Tyrol is continu
ing unchecked, according to Friday's
statement from the war office at Vi
enna, In the district of Arslero the
Austro-Hungarians have captured sev
eral more positions of strategic Importance.
FORCED GERMANS
TO TIN HOME
British Admiralty Claims In
ferior Force Engaged Enemy
Battle Fleet and Won.
NAVAL MEN ELATED
Admit Navy Sustained Heavy
Losses in Giving Battle to
Germans in Their Own
Waters.
London, June 3, 3:45 p. m. The
Erltlsh admiralty gave out the fol
lowing statement today to the Asso
ciated Press:
"We went out within enemy waters
seeking a fight. Our inferior fleet
engaged the entire German battle
fleet, forced them to return to har
bor and to give up any plan of action
they may have contemplted.
The first official account in detail
of the North sea battle was given to
the Associated Press today by a high
official at the admiralty. It was no
ticeable that among admiralty offi
cials, the opinion was general that the
depression caused by the first an
nouncement of the result of the en
gagement was not justified, in the
light of subsequent details.
The Associated Press Is informed
that future details will have even a
more heartening effect than the news
given out today.
Admiralty Is Cautious.
l no aamiraity is especially cautious
about stating German losses, giving
only those which are reported official
ly or admitted by the Germans, mean
while awaiting detailed reports from
officers who participated in the ac
tion. It would have been possible to an
ticipate the German announcement in
regard to the battle, received here
by wireless yesterday afternoon, but
th British admiralty did not have the
details until after Admiral Jellico
reached port and frankly issued the
Information which was in its posses
sion. Details of Great Battle.
Expurgating only such portions of
wireless reports as might be of as
sistance to Great Britain's enemies,
the admiralty official gave the fol
lowing details of the great naval
fight:
"We can only say we were looking
for a fight when our fleet went out
Stories that it was decoyed by the
Germans are sheerest nonsense. In a
word, with an inferior fleet we en
gaged the entire German high sea
fleet, Interrupted their plans, and
drove them back into their harbors.
Expected Heavy Losses.
"In carrying out the plan decided
upon we sustained heavy losses,
which we expected" this official said,
"but we also attained the expected
result of forcing the enemy to aban
don his plan and seek refuge after we
had given battle in his own waters
near his coast.
"With the exception of two divi
sions only part of which were en
gaged, the brunt of the battle was
born by the batlo cruiser fleet, and,
with one exception, our battle fleet
Is ready for sea service. I must ad
mit that we had exceptionally hard
luck with our battle cruisers, but the
loss of these three great ships does
not in any measure cripple our con
trol of the sea,
"The great battle had four phases.
The first opened at 3:15 p. m. when
our battle cruisers, at a range of six
miles, joined action with German bat
tle cruisers. Shortly afterward the
Becond phase began with the arrival
on both sides of battleships, the Ger
mans arriving first But before their
arrival our three battle cruisers had
been blown up, supposedly the re
sult of gunfire, although possibly they
met their fate from torpedoes.
Close Range Fighting.
"Such close range fighting with
battle cruisers might bo criticized as
bad tactics, but our fleet, folowlng the
traditions of the navy, went out to
engage the enemy and on account of
weather conditions could do so only
at short range.
"Tho third phase was the engage
ment of battleships which never was
more than partial. This phase includ
ed a running fight as the German
dreadnaughts fled toward their bases.
All the big ship fighting was over by
9:15 p. m.
"Then came one of the most wolrd
HEAD OF ILL-FATED
PLUNKETT FAMILY
Count Plunkett.
Count Plunkett Is a well-known
Irishman, he and his family having,
figuredwprominently in the late Irish
rebellion. Joseph Plunkett, son of
the count, was executed for his part
in the uprising, while his other two
sons. George and John, were sentenc
ed to five and ten years, respectively,
in prison.
features of the battle, as German des
troyers made attack after attack, like
Infantry following artillery prepara
tion on our big ships. But these on
slaughts were singularly futile, not a
singlo torpedo launched by them get
ting home.
"With the morning these attacks
ended and the scone of battle was
swept by Jellico's fleet. Not a single
enemy remained after that night
Awaiting Jellico's Report.
"Until we get Admiral Jellico's
complete report we can give only frag
mentary incidents of the great bat
tle. Among these are torpedoing of
the super-drcadnaught Marlborough
which is now safely in harbor. She
must have struck a veritible hornet's
nest of submarines as by skilful ma
neuvering she avoided three of these
before she was hit
"Early in the engagement, accord
ing to Admiral Beatty's report, a Ger
man battle cruiser after being hotly
engaged, blew up and broke in two.
"Officers of the fleet also reported
passing a closely engaged German
battle cruiser which was left behind
while the- British pursued tho Ger
mans. On their return this vessel was
missing, Judging from her previous
plight she must now be at the bot
tom of the sea. This accounts for
two of the enemy's battle cruisers and
we have their admission that they
had lost two battleships.
Four German Light Cruisers Sunk.
"The admiralty has a report of the
sinking of four German light cruisers
and the Germans havo acknowledged
the loss of six destroyers. There is
very good hope that the German loss
is even greater, but we do not intend
to make any estimates until we have
complete official reports from our
commanders who do not roport the
loss of antagonists without definite
evidence.
Naval Officers Elated.
It was added that the latest reports
received from Admiral Jellico and
Vico Admiral Beatty had caused a
feeling of elation among naval offi
cers. , . .
"Zeppelins did not play the Import
ant part attributed to them. Only one
appeared. It remained in action a
very brief time, retiring under heavy
fire evidently badly damaged. Weath
er conditions were such that it is
doubtful whether any aircraft would
havo been of much service
"The enemy sprang no surprises.
We saw nothing of any 17-inch guns.
Weather Conditions Bad.
"The weather conditions were the
hardest bit of luck our fleet encoun
tered, as may be judged from tho fol
lowing paragraph from tho official re
port: " 'Regi-et misty weather of 31st sav
ed enemy from far more severe pun
iBbment' " I
FRENCH STILL I
HOLDING LINES
Germans Making Supreme At- 1 j
tempt to Bring Long Drawn- i H
out Attack to Close. , 'H
! M
FORMIDABLE FORCES I H
Masses of Reinforcements and ; H
Great Number of Big Guns j B
Brought Up. H
Paris, June 3, 12-30 p. m. In the i iH
course of repeated and violent attacks I ' M
last night on Fort Vaux, on the Ver- j M
dun front east of the Meuse, the Ger- """
mans penetrated a deep ditch north h 'JMm
of the main French position. The in- i. '
terior of the works, the war office lH
announcement of today says, is still i 'H
held by tho French. l
Except for this gain, the statement J '
says, the Germans were repulsed with ',1
heavy losses. H
Spirited fighting continued in the i ;l
Argonne, west of the Verdun sector., ( '
Two German attacks west of La Fille j H
Morte were beaten back. jH
The text of the communication l M
mm
"In the Champagne west of Mont tM
Pctu detachments of the enemy who '
had penetrated some minor advance ll
posts, wcro dislodged by counter at- j jj
tacks. 'H
"In the Argonne yesterday evening J
a German attack on a salient of our j 'H
line west of La Fille Morto was re- mM
pulsed. A second attack at about 8 j H
p. in. also was completely checked. 'H
"On tho left bank of the Meuse our mM
positions from Hill No. 304 to our j M
second line have been subjected to a j H
violent bombardment. H
Ferocious Fighting Continues. 1m
"On the right bank the fighting is H
going on in the sector of Fort Vaux : i
with the same ferocity as before. All j M
the onslaughts of the enemy upon our ,) 'H
trenches west and east of the fort j '
have repulsed. Against the fort it- ilmma
self the Germans multiplied their fe- !( mM
rocious attacks and this in spite of H
the heavy losses caused in their ranks H
by our artillery and machine guns. j jH
Nevertheless during the night de- ! iH
tachments of the enemy penetrated a jj JM
deep ditch north of tho fort In the , !mM
interior of the position we were main- Jj M
taining ourselves with energy." H
Battles of Unprecedented Violence. !J H
Paris, June 3. The battle of Ver- jl
dun reached a point of unprecedented i H
violence in the last forty-eight hours. j M
The Germans made a formidable ef- j 'H
fort to mass reinforcements on the mM
right bank ofahc Meuse, supported 'M
by a great number of heavy pieces : M
drawn from other fronts. : H
The concentration of the German i H
forces is taken here to indicate a ! 1
supreme attempt to bring the long 'll
drawn out attack on the fortress to j mm
a' successful Issue and to prevent a j 'jM
general offensive by the allies. 1 1 H
French Hold Main Lines. jH
Despite the intensity of the attack. iH
involving enormous losses, tho ''WM
French official accounts say that the ll
main lines are not essentially !H
changed. The f urtherest jpoint reach- j jH
ed by the Germans was houses on the
outskirts of Damloup. The main por- lll
tion of the town is strongly hold by M
tho French. ilmmm
Berlin, June 3, via London, 5:55 p. Il
m. The ridges of the heights south- t
east of Zillheck, southeast of Ypreo, j imW
Belgium, and the British position be- H
yond have been captured by storm by j
German troops, the war office an- , jH
nounced today. Kl
Two Zeppelins Destroyed. 3
Esbjerg, Denmark, Friday, June 2, ll
via London, June 3, 12:15 p. m. Two j M
Zeppelin dirigible balloons are report- Vm
ed by fishermen returning to port to- I ;H
day to have been destroyed. On one j 'JM
airship all the members of the crew t H
aro said to have perished. Il
The Avis Laniivgo states that flBh- iil
ermen arriving this afternoon report fl
that yesterday they saw a Zeppelin IH
in flames as a result of gun fire and ImMM
that the air vessel was destroyod H
forty miles off the Thyboroln canal. H
The fishermen say the entire crow )H
perished. j H
Tho Ekstr-Dladt says fishermen ar- ftl
riving at Ringkjobing say they saw , H
another Zoppelln destroyed yesterday J jH
some miles from these waters. j i
A fishing cutter today brought Into ' IH
, Esbjerg fourteen empty torpedo tubes. j lmm
K ' ;;
g LJM
