I to w4n' IH
LAmericatiMrk Citizen- M
AMERICAN FOniC CITIZEN. SATURDAY, JlM i,, S ; - 'TflaaH
; . &'. ' ' NUMIlEIt. 7 ,,. fiJB
I Automobile Turns
I Over Three
I Persons Killed
I A. B. ROOKHILL, WIFE AND SIX CHILDREN OF SALT
LAKE WERE GOING TO SPANISH FORK FOR DECOR-
ATION DAY WHEN THE ACCIDENT OCOURED ONE
MILE SOUTH OF THIS CITY.
H Albert B. Hockhill was killo 1 instnntly, his 3 1-ycar-old .son,
Milton, passed away a few minutes later, and Joseph Clark died
about two hours later in the Provo General hospital, all the
result of an auto turning over and coming in contact with a tele
H phone pole a mile south of American Fork, at 10 o'clock Tues-
day forenoon. The above three were riding in the front seat of
tlio car. Mrs. ftockhill, four daughters and the o-months-old
baby boy, who were riding in the two rear seats were all thrown
,out and badly bruised, but not injured seriously. The baby was
H not injured at nil. Mrs.Kockhill was bruised on the hip, the
-oldest daughter was bruised on the hip and had her noso'cut
H and the othors received minor bruises. '
fl fhi' accident took place on
m the state road directly in front
m of John A. Singleton's home.
B Mr. Singleton wits just prcpur-
1 ing to leave for .his field, when
he saw an auto coming at a
1 30-mile rate swerving from one
H side of the road to the other.
He told his sou to . hold his
m team, remarking that the auto
B'wns going over. Just then the
1 crash camo. At" the sanio lime
fyorgo Ileber ftobinson who
Halso lives close by, looked up
I H just in time to sec the machine
1 H go over and crash into tho teje-
"lion pole. -Hiion, Dr. Al
bert Robinson; 'yvJiO'vas visit-
iug from Ogc1on,;wns cnllcd to
Band the threomdn rnshctiTto
""Sfi; roscn0' 'ir'.flierj.roiiflfiofl
rtfficfl?flr,nK6tuT8b JUIiAfi iff the,
" front seat woro "piimeZl ,undor
Btho car or between it and tho
""Bole. The occupants of the
Brenr seats were thrown several
Hfcct away. Mr, PockhiH had
lied instantly, the boy was
gotten out, but expired just as
Bio was being taken into the
Singleton home. As Clark was
irnggod from beneath the seat
ic was thought to have been
lend as his pulse was still. Lat-
r he showed signs of life, and
Bvlion given a hypodermic' by
)r. Kobinson, he regained con-
Bciousnoss till about half way
B Provo when he again had ii
"I'sc, mid died soon after
caching the hospital.
Mr Uockhlll's head lmd boon crush-
"i H ,rom ll10 'oft side, his shoulder
J Broken and other Injuries jccolved
ufnclcnt to cnuso death. Tlio boy's
il lmd soornl cuta, death nppaiont-
r resulting fiom nn Injury back of
ie lcft r Clark's back was biok-
h anil hcveral hiokcn rllis lmd pene-
jti'l his lungs
M "Tho accident would not have hap-
?5c "P'l lmd l boon driving" ho snld
)8c B""'nB ' I'Tlod of consciousness and
n,,,1U0ll M was not experienced
19C pjpKli and when I lookod nt tho
38c jodotnPtf and told him ho wns
ofa 33 '""os 1,er 'lour no "ocnmo
nU' ani1 ,08t control." Another
5,25 cPant said that Just prior to this
'98 "lo nlrl ronrlfoil that thoy woro
"" . out ,0 "i oor. that Mr. Uockhlll
Krinc? ,0 hcnr what b,, ,md to pay
98C B rar '"'nicd off tho tirade.
At this point, tho giado Is about
4 1-2 foot high, very narrow and with
sides eloping about 30 degrees, as ho
tiled to got back, and turned tho fiont
wheels up tho grado, so n3 to mlcs tho
pole, tho 35 mllo paco cnused tho 'car
to tuin turtle
Tho bodies of Mr. Rockhllt and his
son woro brought to tho Anderson Un
dertaking parlors whero they were
prepared for burial. II. E. Ostorloh
of Lchl, who was going to Provo with
a load of flowers took Clark to Provo,
and another auto took tho ladtcs to
Pleasant Grovo wlioro Dr. 0. B. Grua
gavo them. medical attention, and then
took themto Spanish Fork.
j Mr, Ro?ktilll had purchased tho car,
a 7-passcagor, six cylinder Dulck. but
ivo reefer before Us hsd'-n Jt but
a few times hlmselfr And thon only
undpr tho porsonal Bujiervlsfon of Jos
eph Clark, n public chnffour. Mr.
CJark, whoso homo "waa Jn'prlngvlllo,
The-car Xvlionfound wna'on- its sldo
with all four wheels In tho air." Tho
wind shield nnd top woro smashed and
tho sido door broken where It camo In
contact with tho tolephono pole, other
parts wcro also bioken, Itwas brought
back to Nlclson's Gnrago on Its own
power.
Mr. Hockhill was born In Spanish
Fork about 40 years ago. Ho was prom
inently Identified with business Inter
ests thero, being tho chlof ownor in
tho Commorclal bank thoro prior to
his moving to Salt Lako about two
years ago. Ho was engaged In business
1n Lchl sovoral ears ago. His child
ren aro nianch, aged 21; Alccn. aged
19; Mary, nged 17; Irmn, nged 14;
Lois, aged 10; Milton aged 11 and tho
baby boy 5 months old. lllanch wns
tho only ono not In tho auto, and Mil
ton was tho boy who was killed.
Joseph Clark was 23 years old, a son
of Mrs. Harriet Claik of Sprlngvllle.
Mr Clark's body wns shipped from
Proto to SpilngWUo Wednesday and
tho funor.il wns hold nt Spilngvlllc
Thursday afternoon.
Mr. Hockhill Is ono of a family of
X)Iovon child! on, tho first of whom to
dlo was Mrs. Coia Hranthon In Idaho
a month ago Tho brothers yet living
aro: William, on tho Unltnh Reserva
tion, Nnto and Arthur of Salt Lake,
Edward of Kamns and I.eonaid of Salt
Lako City. Tho sisters aro Mr?. Clar
enco Larson of Ephrnlm, Mrs. W. A.
Jones anil Mrs. Albort Engburg of
Spanish Fork and Mrs. H. E. Gardner
of Suit Lako.
Tho bodies woio shipped fiom hero
Wednesday ovenlng and tho doublo
funoinl waa held yesterday afternoon,
nt Spanish Fork.
Sparl Starts Work
j I On Miller Hill
98c t)MPAY WILL BE FORMED AND LONG TUNNEL
98C BRUN FOR BIG FISSURE BETWEEN DUTCHMAN
31.49 Mm PAGIFIO MINES.
t I a0-1"" s J,:",', Blm'trt some nwn lo worlc tllis NSt'l'k uu
tlie MUloril;i properly and will go aftor tho 1'acific figure
01'S Be "8 U'm' 8hilN l,, ',ush tho lunno1, Tho aU(lit wil1 b
?nk'l about (500 or 70() feet down tho canyon from tho
Fc"itm tunnel and will li run nearly duo west.
HUnfn tr!n ii t
gH t"'0n t the Pacific fissure
'3 across tho Blue Rock No.
; claim near us soma i-usu
corner. Tf this bo true, then
Earl will got it in COO or 700
feet. Charles Dooliltlo gives
it as his judgement that tho
Dutchman workings are a con
tiiiuiition of the Pacific fis
sure. Neither of these nutoiy
ities are positive in their op
inions, but both are positive
that (lie fissure goes to tho
south and will probably be
found to be as big as it is on
Pacific ground. If Doolittlo's
theory is correct then it 1h
likely that Earl will have to
drive ahead about 1200 feet,
mil if this is necessary it will
give him about 3,000 feet more
on the big vein. In any ovent
every one acquainted with
Miller Uill and Pacific ground
unite in saying that a tunnol
from the bottom of tho Canyon
will cut the fissure between
(i00 and 1200 feet from its por
tal. O. Yf. Earl and J. C. Jensen
have joined their two leases
on the Miller ground nnd dur
ing the week will pprfect a cor
poration under which the lease
will bo handled. .
Five prominent Salt Lako
capitalists have subscribed
sufficient funds to push the.
tunnel in a distance of 1,500
fpet and have offered more if
necessary. It is thought .tha
three shifts will make about
three feet per day till tho pow
or is gotten in whon the" inon
should bo'jible- to make ton'ffJ
per day. ' ' "
SILVER LAKE:kTARTS;'Ji$ j
DEVELOPMENT WORKI
Jed Mc'rcor started two shlftstM
work this week on tho Silver LftkilB
Mining Co8. ground, !xu thq D'Wfl '
CrCuiv nuCtlull. TuusutUYptUl UWUBtt "j
.group of .clnlma'adjolnjntrthp Earl;
Eaglo and will soiuOn (ynnoL IntQth?
mountain to cfy tho -Bnmo vein tlia
tho Earl .Eaglo 'nroJlrlvln for. TbA i
and aIftdgo of psom satis. 2r
"7" - - ,. a ,M
. TO OUR PATRONS f ''
Tttf? . WE HAVE pLAOED IN STOCK A FULL AND COMPLETE LINE OF f ll
'4 v?UGISTS SUNDRIES, WE BELIEVE WE HAVE BOUGHT THEM JUST A I fl
j teTLE CHEAPER THAN OTHERS CAN, WE HAVE BOUGHT FOR CASH AND T
! WHE WE SELL THEM, WE SELL THEM THE SAME WAY, CONSEQUENT-
fff"2 AN AFF0RD T0 MAKE AN EXTREMELY LOW PRICE. THE FOL- T '
11- NG ARE S0ME 0F THE ITEMS WE CARRY: T M
3ii Powdcr Nova Qdon I ll
' jiSratos Tnlcum Two iu nc Salts " 1
'jPiim' Olive Soap Buck Bag Polish Magnesia . ' fjH
;)vMuilcge Duck Back oiI Bromo Jjw T lH
J'fi'lmAt'pniiei, Mcnthalatum Ponds Extract &BHf L , rH
4rf Pipes Jamaca Ginger ' YU !H
-flSSK? P Eyo Glnsses Bromo Quinine ll
i?'lPrt?rooin3 Goggles Hires Root Boor Extract ' SH
VSMri' ste Marbles Almond Cream , IH
1 'wWBnfie Playing Cards Liniments ) H
Jm'Vgwutia Salve Cigars Canker Cures B
T'ljS'111 SoaP Candies Rheumatism Cures T i H
AKKohe Face Powder Castor Oil Pinox for Colds L 1
,g?Jo Castoria Hoof Ointment H
P-Creani Syrup of Figs Glycerine f , jH
JflH'Jum Sulphur Epicac ' , !H
3gpjtycefine Soap Camphor Lobelia ll
iMhlr Brushes Sonna Leaves Grapo Juico L 9l
Toth; Brushes Hops Camphorice T NJ
wjwptable Brushes Tar Taric Acid Doan's Kidney Pills X H
jogf r eanor Polish x Croam of Tar Tar Household Amonia T J
'ynvaa Cleaner Polish Rhubarb Household Romcdics gH
pts'P"1 ' L I rll
MEv tllcro s any lirtcl yu are usmff a tno timc ani want to buy in quan- T , 'i
4;'Xitif8rlct uii figure with you. If we do not have what you need wo will got it for you. A ) Vl
''i!MWeJfcirikwo can savo you from 10 to 20 por cent on most of these items. Lot us do I; H
Jgit,"aSd vou buy from us. T hjt H
ttvm "llopjnfi: to make you a permanent customer on those items, wo remain yours truly, T 1!I
phipman Mercantile Co. I SH
jfflJUm&hJamxQAti forkutah,- ''the busi ness center." . T , ,. -f ; IH
Miller and Durrant
Make Strike on
New. Ground
MOST IMPORTANT DISCLOSURE SINCE OPENING OF
PACIFIC SAID TO HAVE BEEN MADE ON GROUND
LOCATED BUT FEW MONTHS AGO.
Several new things of interest have developed in the can
yon this week, chief among which is tho opening of the Pacific
issuro on tho now ground recently located by Peter Miller and
Bert Durrant to tho north and adjoining, tho Pacific mine it
self. A group of six claims lying between tho Pacific the Henl
ey, tho llorshoo and the Utah Centennial groups, lias been ly
ing open for years, no ono attaching any mineral importance
in llm trrnnnd.
When the Pacific fissure
was first cut it was running 20
degrees east of north. In fol
lowing it to the north a series
of short faults back to the
west have-been developed so
that now after having opened
it up 700 feet, the strike of the
vein is lfi degrees west of
north.
Soon as Peter Miller and his
foreman, Bert Durrant, saw
the changing course of the
vein, thoy lost no t.ime in lo
cating the vacant ground next
the Pacific, now considered
some of the most valuablo in
the canyon. Early in tho week
they took a few hours off pros,
pecting their own ground and
in a short time had located
what thoy think is tho contin
uation of the Pacific fissure.
With a few hours more work
thev had broken into a fino
bunch of high grade ore, that
was identical with that in tho
Pacific vein, nnd at a point
whero the direction of tho Pa
cific vein told them it should
be found.
The now find is under a big
ledge, and is at a point about
l.riOO'Cot north of tho present
face of lio north drift from the
Pacific ttnnel. Tts extent and
richnessfan tho surface would
indicalo vllial with depth, U
would dovoloj) equally as big
as the Pacific. The Pacific
workings aro yet 1200 feet
.south of their north end lines,
so tho now strike proves that
the company will have at least
1,900 foot on tho big fissure.
As thoy also have nearly 2,000
feet of unprospected ground
to tho south it gives the com
pany a possible length of near
ly 4,000 feel.
The discovery by Miller and
Durrant will also give new in
terest to the Henley or the Am
erican Fork Canyon Mining
Co's. ground through which
tho big fissure is evidently
making.
nomembor tho time Juno 8 th.. 8 p. m. c
noraember tho Place-First Ward Chapel.
Remember the ovcnt-Tom Thumb Wedding.
BELORPHAN'MAYBE v-
NEXT BIG MINE
John Cleghom camo down from tho
canyon yesterday and roportcd that
tho tunnol, now bolug run to cut tho
big flssuro which oxportfl say In tho
Bourco of tho thousands of tons of
licit float shipped In tho early days,
Is now In 225 feet nnd has but 25 or
30 feet yet to go beforo ho expects
Important results, Galena Is already
coming In tho faco of tho tunnel nnd
tho men aro making belter than two
feet per dny. At this rate two wcolts
mo ro will pi nimbly disclose a full
bicaat of oro judging from tho float
found below
Mr. Cleghom cut tho flssuro on the
Ynnkeo ground last fall wheio It Is
in feet wide If tho oro is as rich
and tho clu Is as big, whero he Is
now driving for It, then theio will
bo a repetition of 1'aclfle hlstoiy The
stock Is hclil ory close nnd It Is al
most Imposslblo to Jar any loose nt
any pilco ronsldeied reasonablo
o I
CULLEN STARTS WORK ,
ONEUDORA BELL.
The owners of tho Kudora noil prop
erty In tho head or tho Mary Ellen
Oulch nnd adjoining tho Ilelorphnn
property, will go up tho canyon lo
nionow to locnlo a tunnel nnd start
woik This pioperty was a shipper
In tho old days and was operated from
nn Incllno shaft A lot of shipping
oro has boon exposed nnd It Is tho
prosent Intention to rommenco Inking
noma of this out nnd nt tho samo tlmo
put two shifts running a deeper tun
nol. I
Mntt Cullon and associates of Salt
I.ako are the owners of the Kudora
Hell
o
BOLEY MINING CO.
WILL SINK SHAFT
Tho Holey Mining Company, ono of
tho joungsters of tho camp, locatod
south of tho Old Miller and noxt tho
Toxan, complctod arrangements this
week to commenco with n forco of inon
sinking tho 4G foot shaft (111 It Inter
cepts tho contact whero It Is expect
ed rosults will bo obtalnod. Tho first
P0 feet will bo dono on contract.
Tho noloy peoplo havo an ngreo
hiont io permit of working through
tho Toxan tunnel whon thoy havo
determined tho locntlon of their oro
UO(Jy'
KM ME BOOT
(leorgo Tyler camo down from tho
Jlny Slato eaily In tho week and ro- UUu ijlH
ports small stilngors of carbonates It MH
coming In tho faco of tho lower tunnol if B
that Is now In 1(!5 foot and progressing i B
nt tho rato of 2 1-2 feet por duy. Tho ( ,B
midlt has 120 fcot yet to go to Inter- ' jH
copt tho Junction of tho north-south B
'nnd uast-west fissures wlioro Mr. Ty- B
lcr Is confldcr. a big oro body will Ml
mnko. Ho expects this point to havo I'H
boon reached within tho noxt 30 days. '""H'B
Two mon nro also ongaged sloping )
ore In the upper woi kings nnd a car jH
'lond of nigh grado lead-silver oro will H
soon bo coming from this property. ,i H
Tho company Is now well financed H
for n year of actlvo development ll
work. It Is tho Intention to push tho "' jH
lower tunnel In n distance of 1000 I H
fcot without stopping, and thoro Is Hl
somn nio.Ht promising ground for 2,000 , HH
feel yet ahead. Thoro Is a gontlo ,. w
rivalry between tho Hay Stuto nnd tho I B
Ilelorphnn In sco which ono Is to bo H
tlio canyon's next big strike. j K
A CORRECTION. - ' H
' M
In our last Issuo wo stated In tho UK
enso of American Fork City vs. Hrown j r
for selling a bottlo of alcohol was tfBtf
sold to a Mrs. Jacklln. It should havo 1 SB
been Mrs, Mncklln. Tho substitution uB
of a J for an M was tho causa of all t SQ1
tho trouble. IjEE
o ' 17 m
wi: rmT ui'TTint whaitkus: "1'iBi
Attention of Investors' wm
of Mining Slocks M
I Mill open n brunch olllco of ," '
'Bl
W. II. Child Co., the widely known ' , i; B
Halt l-ako Mining llrokcrs and t , pj
ulll reecho dally iiuolnlloiis of H
tho llsled stocks of Iho Salt I.ako 2
Mining Kxchnnge If ou hare '11
any stocks to sell or buy wo so Wl
licit jour business prompt action ' 9
and sntlsfnctlou gimrantcwl. ' .fvB
