You'll find lots of it in The Star's reports of the political doings at Chicago. Not columns of dry, technical stuff that is hard to read, and harder still
H to understand, unless you're a professional politician, which most of us aren't. Not that sort of stuff, but real, regular stories about what's going on, told
■ in the unconventional, interesting way in which no other paper gives it to you. * * * You'll find some of this kind of political reporting in today's paper.
■ * + + You also will find a splendid array of notices, in both the news and advertising columns, of the offerings at the theatres, photoplay and legitimate,
■ for the week opening Sunday. Look them over today and decide right now which you'll sec. * * * And, by the way, since we're talking about our
■ selves, did you notice that The Star's special edition, Friday, containing the first news of the great naval battle in the North sea, appeared on the street a
H half hour ahead of that of its rival. You always get the news first in The Star.
SOUNDS GOOD!
"Son of the Wind" is the title of The
Star's next novel-a-week, which begins in
Monday's issue. Complete in six days,
ending on Saturday—a popular, $1.50
novel for six cents.
€®mpld® Amiffiift ®H W®sif§
LONDON. June 3.—Developments today clearly showed
that tHe entire British aod German high seas fleets were en
gaged on Wednesday in the greatest naval battle in the his
tory of the world.
Sir John Jellicoe, in supreme command of the British
ttaYal forces, directed the English fleet, with Vice Admiral
Scheer, Germany's supreme power on the seas, heading the
kaiser's armada.
Against more than 15 British ships which were sent to
the bottom. German losses were hardly half as large, but
Britons found satisfaction when it was learned that jellicoe
and his dreadnaughts had faced the enemy, that not a ship
of the first • powerful line was lost, and that the Germans
were forced to return to their base.
It is now estimated that more than 5,000 British officers
and men went down with their ships. Rear Admirals Hood
And Arbuthnot were lost.
Itear Admiral Beatty Trapped
by German Battle Squadron
Rear Admiral Beatty, hero of the fight which resulted in
the sinking of the Btuec'her. was the first British commander
STRIKE GUARD SHOT IN RIOT ON
WATER FRONT; MAYOR GILL ACTS
Mayor QUI and Chief Becking
ham, after a conference Satur
day morning, took atcpa to
guard againat further water
frent atrike riota.
The police guard on the wa
ter front will be doubled Satur
day night, and any attempt of
etrlkera to fight In «anga will be
met by uniformed opposition.
"Than. If the situation grow*
worse," eald the msyor. "I'll go
before the council and aek for
Increase In the force. We
will call every aubetatlon and
residence district patrolman to
the water front. If need be. I
haven't any objections against
orderly strlks ptckets. But we
must step gang fights or shoot
ing scrapes."
Fifty water front atrike eym
pathUera battled with etrlka
guards, ehot one nonunion
worker and kidnaped one of the
guarde. In the first vlolsncs of
the water front atrike, at 1 a.
in. Saturday at the Milwaukee's
ocean dock.
T. C. Hughee, 1321 Edgewater
at., Loe Angelee. who wis shot,
lies with a bullst In his bsck
at the city hospital. He will
recover.
After a hand-to-hand fight with
the leader* of the mob, Jack
Wamicke, guard, wan carried away.
He regained consciousness at. <"> a.
m .Saturday, where he was left,
badly beaten, along Railroad ave
Built for
SPEED
That v/as the "Son of
the Wind."
Freedom lent him the
wings of the air.
No weight was ever sad
dled on him.
No burden did he ever
know.
No barrier ever blocked
his path—
Until the girl shared her
secret with her sweet
heart.
Lucia Chamberlain
wrote "Son of the Wind."
It's the novel-a-week
which begins in The Star
next Monday and end*
Saturday.
By Ed L. Keene
Cnltt4 I'rui Stiff e»rr»»pon<J»nt
tracks.
No striker* have been arretted.
I>etectlvea are searclnc .Satur
day. for ao unknown man, believed
to be a union longshoreman, who
Above: The "Funk" house, at the
foot of Jackson St., whsre strike
breakers will be houeed If employ
ers and longshoremen don't come to
an early settlement. The arrow In
dicates the high board fence which
was erected the day the etrike was
declared, to prevent Interference
with the nonunion men.
Below, Oiatrict Vice President K.
J. Martens, who Is helping direct
the Coaat atrike, and Dlatrict Secre
tary J. A. Madaen, who will make an
effort to arrange a meeting of atrlk
ers and employers Wednesday.
was attended for a gunshot wound
by r>r. Oeorge Mclaughlin, at 1625
Te>rry ave
Strike guard* told Chief Decking
ham that one of the rioter* had
been wounded and carried away.
The list of Injured wan swelled
to five when K. N. O'flrlen and 1-.
Harrison applied for emergency
treatment at the city hospital They
were badly beaten by the rioter*.
The attacking party escaped In
the dark, after Thief Becklngbam.
Capt. A. C. Stilllvan, Sergt*. Com
atock and Kmart and nix motorcycle
officer* had answered a riot call,
and appeared on the scene of dis
order.
first warning of the attack came
about II p. m., when rock* were
<h< swered thru the office windows
of the dock.
A dozen strikebreaker*, with
hi mi-1 guards. were sleeping there
Then the assailant* burst thru
the door
Two young leaders are *ald to;
have done the shooting.
Hughes nays he was dragged from |
hl» bed. The guards fought hand j
to hand with the Intruders, butj
war* overpowered. '
The Seattle Star
l THE ONLY PAPER IN SEATTLE THAT DARES TO PRINT THE NEWS :
VOLUME 19.
in action and was all but trapped by the Germans
His cruiser squadron endeavored to cut off what appeared
to be only a (ierman cruiser fleet from its base.
But lurking behind the cruisers and low-hanging mists
was the (ierman battle fleet of dreadnaughts and superdread
naughts.
Beatty could only retreat, but not before the heavy (ier
man guns were able to do deadly execution
Her cruisers and destroyers were shattered by the heavy
fire and with Beatty signalling for help, Sir John Jellicoe,
England's guardian of the sea, headed his fleet of super
dreadnaughts to the rescue.
Then fame the battle of ages
Not a British dreadnatißht was Inst The German state
ment of the sinking of the Warspite is officially denied. But
two German dreadnaughts succumbed to the fire and the
retreat was ordered.
Small Craft Charge Like
Infantrymen in Land Battle*
With the tall of darkness, submarines ami torpedo boat*
began like infantrymen in land fighting to make desperate
charges against the lines of their enemy. Fight British de
trovers were lost. The Germans lost six •
It w.i- «'«•<-! tred a? the admiralty t"dav ti»t >hr «
Mope for a settlement of the lon*
shoremen's strike was current Hat
urday, when IHstrlct Secretary Msd
sen. of the 1. !» A . announced that
he was'trylng to arrange for a meet
SEATTLE. WASH.. SATURDAY. JUNE 3. 1916.
♦ ♦
UNIONS OFFER TO HELP
Union longshoremen offtrtd
to co-operate with Chief Beck
Inghjm Saturday to run down
rioter*.
"We will e«pel any man
who waa connected with tha
Milwaukee dock affair," they
teld him. "The union won't
eanctlon any violence. We are
confident of winning without
Ing of tha eiemtlTa hoard of the
union with water front employer*
neit Wednesday
It haii not been derided whether
or not the *e«iiloii will be held In
Seattle or Hati Franrl*co
The pro|>o*f«l iner-ilng tm railed
thru the <>ffort* of I'. S ImmUra
• lon <'omml»»loner Henry M. White,
acting for the department of labor
at Wa*hlngotn.
A board fence, 12 feet high,
has been erected In front of
"Funk" haJI, traditional "heller
shed for strikebreakers, at the
foot of Jackson at., by represen
tative* of the Water Front Em
ployers' union
They are preparing the place
to houre men « ho will tnke their
chances loading and unloading
vessels In Heiittli\ In the face of
the lat'TtiationAl Longshoreman's
strike.
Agents for the employers are
signing up workers They refus
ed Friday to May how many they
have thus far obtained.
The hall where the strlkebreak
ers are housed Is built over the
water, adjoining the Jackson at.
wharves.
Launches to Carry Man
In 1908 "Funk" hall was first
nsed as a living place for non
union workers.
T>urlng a local strike, organized
bv the longshoremen of Tacoma
and Seattle, the shippers estab
lished headquarters there
For months afterward, men
who wanted to work had to g<>
there ami obtain tickets first.
launches probably will carry
tho strikebreakers between their
work and the bunkhouse. Tho
high fence. It Is expected, will
protect the place from violence
from Railroad ave.
Water front employers have pe
titioned Samuel Ootnpers, president
of tho American Federation of
Ijibor, to use his offices ti> help
settle the longshoremen's strike.
Thev have nl«o notified tho union
officer* Hint unless unino agreement
la reached by Monday, strikebreak
er* will be Imported.
REPRESENTATIVE DILL, of
Washington, will have capital soon
for Chicago to witness republican
convention; from there he will go
to democratic convention In St.
Lout*,
torpedo boat charges, not one torpedo scored a hit.
The port commander at Portsmouth posted notice today
that of the Invincible'* officers and crew, only the commander,
a lieutenant, and three men were saved. All others were lost.
All aboard the Queen Mary were lost when that ship
went down, with the exception of eight men.
On the Defense all were lost, including Rear Admiral
Arbuthnot.
From the Warrior, all were saved A few were picked
up from the Tipperary.
All were lost aboard the Indefatigable and the Black
Prince. The port commander holds out no hope for other
survivors.
Sinking of three more British destroyer* in Wednesday's
battle was reported today. In addition to the Shark, which
earlier unofficial re|»orts declared sunk, word was received
today of the destruction of the Nomad and Nestor.
known losses announced did not include mention of about
10 destroyers, each carrying a crew of 100 men, which were
lost. This would increase the death toll by 1,000, altho it
was stated "a few survivors" of the Tipperary have been
pu..ed up. • -
The highest ranking officers who went down with their
ships were Hear Admiral Hood and Rear Admiral Arbuthnot.
Wife of Admiral Who Died in
Action I* an American Woman
"The British Josses in men were very large owing to the
fact that three British battle cruisers blew up from interior
explosions," an admiralty statement said today.
"Admiral Hood, of the Invincible, went down with his
ship." Admiral Hood's wife is an American woman. She
was formerly Mrs Geo. Nickerson.
"Sir John Jellicoe reports that Admiral Hood went into
action with inspiring gallantry," the admiralty statement
added
"Submarines took part on both sides.
"The British ship Marlborough got into a nest of sub
marine torpedoes She dodged three of them, but was hit by
a fourth. Despite the damage inflicted, the Marlborough was
able to make |w>rt.
"Admiral Beatty's call for help was sent to the British
main fleet and brought Admiral Jellicoe and an unknown
number of British battleships to the scene.
German* Lose Two DreadnaughU in
Engagement, Admiralty Say*
"The main battle then ensued with the British battleships
in direct engagement with German battleships, dreadnaught
against dreadnaught.
"During this part of the battle the Germans lost two
dreadnaught* and the British none.
"W hen Admiral Beatty endeavored to cut off the < ier
nians from retreat, he discovered a fleet of German battle
ships on his left, where they had been hiding behind German
battle cruisers in a mist.
"Admiral Beatty was then forced to retrace his course
to the open sea.
"Thus the situation developed with the German battle
ships and battle cruisers fighting against British battle
cruisers.
"At this stage the British were outnumbered by the
Germans. The Germans had no surprises.
"There were no 17-inch guns in evidence.
"There was only one Zeppelin, the 1.-J4. This was
injured and retired.
Admiralty Statement Describes
Four Phases of Great Battle
"Most of the firing was at a range of five or six miles.
"Thus the four phases were comprised, first of Admiral
Beatty's attempt to cut off the Germans; second, his forced
retirement to the open sea by interference of the German
battleships when the British were outnumbered for a time;
third, the arrival of the main British fleet under Admiral
Jellicoe, when it became a dreadnaught against dreadnaught
fight, and fourth, retirement of the German forces in the face
lof the British attack."
Might German warships have taken rcl'ugc in Danish
waters, according to reliable reports received here today.
They will be ordered to leave by noon today or intern.
The (iernian supcrdreadnaught llindenburg is reported
SEATTLE TRAIN
GOES IN DITCH
SPOKANE, Juno 3.—The oast
hound (ilacler Park blmlted, a
Grout Northern train which left
S< iittlo nt 9:K> a. ra. Friday, ivmi
wrecked at Katka. Idaho, «it 1:46
:i id. Saturday.
\o pnsseng' r» wore Injured,
Engineer Mcfllnti and Fireman
Oempsey, of lllllyard. Wash., are
missing.
The engine tumbled Into the
Kootnal river, arter running Into
a mud and rock slide on the
tracks.
ON TRAIN* AMI ONE* rrwT
»lew ft IU UllL I
CIRCUS GETS IN
EARLY SUNDAY
The .tohn Robinson Ton Pig Com
hlnod Shows arrived In the N. P.
railroad yards Sunday for Its per
fornuiiK es Mo idnv ami Tuesday at
the sir w grounds at Fourth me
and I enora si.
Tho street parade Monday will
leave the show grounds promptly
at 10 o'clock, and move west on
Lenora to First ave., south on First
ave. to Washington, across to Sec
ond ave., and north to I.euora, and
{ back to the abow ground*
LAST EDITION
Remember what happened last Sunday?
And how Weatherman Salisbury said it was
going to be fair? Well, we'll try it again.
"Fair tonight and Sunday," he says today.
by the admiralty to have been sunk in Wednesday's battle.
The Ilindenburg is Germany's newest dreadnaught. She
was completed since the opening of the war and was regarded
as the last word in German naval construction.
Unofficial Holland dispatches today report the loss of the
German cruiser Flbing.
Forty warships took part in the engagement.
With reports of these additional losses also came dis
patches telling how bodies of hundreds of British and Ger
man sailors were seen floating near the scene of the en
gagement by neutral ships which arrived during Wednes
day and Thursday.
Admiralty Admits Lou of Six
Destroyers Reported as Missing
All l-.ngland was today anxiously awaiting further de
tails from the admiralty, but aside from a late statement
admitting the loss of six destroyers, first reported as missing,
no later statement has been issued today than the initial
announcement losses made yesterday.
Unofficial details of the fight drifting in from various
points thrilled all hngland.
One Holland dispatch indicated that the German fleet
- (Continued on page S)
WOMAN ADMITS
SEATTLE CRIME
Sympathy for a woman who had once befriended her triumphed
day over Mrs. Maude Robertson'* love for her husband.
Mr* Robertson appeared this morning at the county jail alone, aak
ed for Jailer Mike Mally. and voluntarily confessed to him that she, and
not Mrs. Brownlow, is guilty of the crime for which the latter woman
was convicted and sentenced to serv e from one to 15 years In the atata
prison at Walla Walla. | ■■
Knowing that her confession
meant that her husband. Charles
Robertson, would never see her
again, Mrs. Robertson declared she
was ready to be taken to the peni
tentiary as soon as the court releas
ed her friend. Mrs. Rrownlow
She had come all the way from
Victoria. B. C„ to give herself up,
after Robertson had told her she
was a fool, she said, and declared
be would have nothing more to do
with her if she went.
Other Woman 111
Mrs Hrownlow Is lying near
death at the county hospital,
where she has undergone a serious
operation.
The suffering due to the opera
tion. coupled with grief at being
condemned for a crime of which
she knew she was not guilty, and
the thought of going to the peni
tentiary, have nearly resulted fa
tally, it is said.
Mrs. Hrownlow was found guilty
by a jury, May 20, 1915, of grand
larceny.
The Jury found she had stolen
some furniture which was found
stored 'In the basement of her
apartment house, the Hyron.
Judpe Mackintosh sentenced her
She appealed to the supreme court,
but loit.
Sentence Commuted
After she went to the hospital
and death seemed certain, friends
petitioned Oov. lJster to extend
her a pardon.
This was denied, tho the gov
ernor commuted her sentence to a
year In the county jnil.
SMITH BUILDING
WEDDING COUPLE
HAVE DAUGHTER
John A. Biehn's chest meas
urement, during the current
week, has expanded some—so
the boys say down at the North
ern Pacific dispatchers' office,
where he works —and for just
and sufficient cause.
You remember him, of course
—the young bridegroom at The
Star's public wedding on the
Smith bi llding tower, when Hi
Gill was ber.t in n n aid Dr. M.
A. Matthews the parron?
Some of the old crabs and killjoys
always present where angels' fear
to tread predicted nothing would
ever come of It—and the bride was
so sweet and young, and it was a
shame to have her dragged Into the
Mr«. Robertson said Saturday
morning that she did not know
Mrs Rrownlow had been operated
on. and supposed her to be la
prison.
We stored the furniture In th*
basement when we lived at tlq»
Hyron. and whrn we went to Vic
toria Intended to send for the fur
niture later.
Prosecutor Summoned
It took me six months to finally
make up my mind." she added.
After I found out that Mrs.
Htwwnlow had lost her case I de
cided to come and make a clean
breast of It.
I sold her some of the furniture.
That's how fhe came by It. 1
didn't tell her it was stolen. She
didn't know It."
Prosecutor I.undln was summon
ed to (hp jail at onco and will take
Immediate steps to bring the mat
ter to the attention of the court.
AMERICAN IS SAFE
BALTIMORE, June 3.—A
cablegram was received today
by relatives of Lieut. Confr
mander Powers Symington. U.
S. N„ who was reported on board
a British battleship sunk In the
North sea, announcing he waa
safe In London.
WORK ON new Pantages the
atre in Tacoma Rtarted Saturday:
cost of building to be $300,000:
will be one of finest on Coast.
limelight, and the boy—dear, dear,
nobody could tell how he would
turn out after all the degrading
publicity of it and all that.
The Star takes keen delight In
asking these old beefers to stand
up and receive the horse-laugh.
l,ook nt John A. Hlehn's swell-
Ins chest, you old knockers, and
weep.
The Star knew the Blehn family
mid make good.
It has. Perceive —
HORN: To Mr. and Mrs. John
\ Blehn. 345( Alkl ave., May -9. a
daughter.
And she weighs—how much do
you think?
SEVEN POUNDS AND A lIALFt
