OHIO STATE
UNIVERSITY
JUNG 1916
LIBRARY
ato.S;gdvocate
I
INDEPENDENT
NON-PARTISAN
Official Organ of the Building Trades Council of Cincinnati and Vicinity
CINCINNATI, OHIO, JUNE 3, 1916
ii 1
i'
y
Vol. IV. No. 7
One Dollar a Year
June Will Be Electric -Chair Month
For Organized Labor. Herbert Doty will be Tried June 6th, Emery Teeters June 12th,
Edward Perry June 19th and Vincent Doty June 26th, for a Crime that Judge Otway
J. Cosgrave Says "That Prosecutor John V. Campbell Admitted to Him in Advance
That He Could Not Prove."
The Painters Have Been in Jail Since December 12, 1915, and Campbell Will Not Allow
That the Jury in the Doty Case Stood 10 for Acquittal and 2 for Conviction.
The month of June will be known as
"Electric-chair month" to organized la
bor, as Prosecutor Campbell has decided
to devote June to convicting the union
painters of first degree murder.
Prosecutor Campbell has devoted
most of his time since last December to
the same purpose, notwithstanding that
Judge Otway J. Cosgrave tells us "that
Campbell admitted to him before the
trial that he could not prove the' charge."
Judge Cosgrave also says that the ques
tion of Campbell's own sincerity in the
matter might be raised from the fact
that he permitted two men to remain
on the jury who declared that under no
circumstances would they -vote for first
degree murder.
The union painters have been in jail
since December the 12th, and notwith
standing the jury in the Herbert Doty
case stood ten for acquittal and two for
conviction, still Prosecutor Campbell re
fuses to allow these men bail. Would
the usarae Jhinc- happen jT the bosses
were on trial?
There is a great deal more behind this
case than appears upon the surface. The
prosecutor has been entirely too severe
and .has used all his talent to the con
viction of these men, when cold-blooded
murderers have laid out in the county
jail without even being brought to trial.
The greatest crime of the union paint
ers is that they are union men, and
the powers that be have determined to
destroy organized labor in this city, and
therefore there is but one course left to
every man who carries a card, and this
is to woik from now until election day
for the defeat of John V. Campbell and
all of his kind.
Union men should alarm their broth
ers of the danger and impress upon
them the necessity of voting against
John V. Campbell next November.
WAOIC IXCIIICASH PARAMOUNT.
Street Car Employees Say Demands
Must He Granted Hail to Fight
l'or It llefore, anil Will Do So
Again.
Nearly 1,500 members of the Street
Car Men's Union at meetings held re
cently at Rattcrman's Halt showed by
their actions, it is said, that the attitude
the Cincinnati Traction Company has
adopted as to their demands is looked
upon with disfavor. Employees said
their committee had no further conces
sions to report in the matter of an in
creased wage from the company than
the tentative offer of one cent an hour,
announced at meetings two weeks ago,
although conferences on the' proposed
new agreement have been held since
then.
"The wage question is the paramount
issue with us." said employees. "Shop
conditions arc minor issues. We will
not be satisfied with anything in the way
of an increase less than that we have
demanded. We had to fight three years
ago, and if the company forces us we
can do it again."
The men are requesting a minimum
wage of 2.') cents an hour and a maximum
of :i:i cents an hour. The present wage
is 20 cents an hour as a minimum and
27 cents as a maximum. The a'grcement
under which the men are now working
expires June HO.
Light-weight uniforms may be worn
by the men this summer. Samples of
summer uniforms have been received
and will be worn by several men to sec
if they are satisfactory.
CAXXHItY IUMj VKTOHI).
Albany, N. V. Governor Whitman
has vetoed the Argetsinger bill which
was opposed 'y organized labor on the
ground that it lengthened the hours of
women employed in canneries.
HON. GEO. F. SCHOTT
Kepuhlicnu Candidate for Ke-electinii for County SheriiV.
Svliott lias been as kiwi anil considerate to tin- Union Painters as tlio
powers would let liim.
GOVHIlXOIt IIKAltH I'KOTICST
Of Samuel (ioiupcrs Against An
of Ijiilior .'Men at Columbus.
est
Columbus, Ohio. When he came to
Columbus to protest against arrests of
labor organizers that had been made by
Columbus police in an alleged unlawful icaii Federation ot Lahor mere was is
...... r -,i t , sued to the organized labor movements
attempt to interfere with "legitimate " . rnllntripsh .,,'. n ....,, Labor's
rights," Samuel Gompers, of the Ameri
can Federation of Labor, saw two ar
rests. As an eyewitness he laid the mat
ters before Governor Frank E. Willis,
with request that action be taken.
The men arrested were Thomas II.
Mugavin, Cincinnati, and Frank Morris,
Columbus. Mugavin is Secretary and
Treasurer of the Ohio State liuilding
Trades Council and President of the
Central Labor body, Cincinnati. They
were released after it was stated that a
charge of loitering would be entered
against them. Labor men vouched for
their appearance.
Gompers saw the Governor in com
pany with local labor leaders and urged
that he take every step to protect citi
zens in their lawful rights. He termed
the actions of the police "unwarrantable,"
and said that Chief of Police C. E. Car
ter doubtless has the approval of Major
Karb. Removal of both officials was in
dicated as highly acceptable to labor.
Governor Willis said he would give
the matter careful attention and consult
the Attorney-General. He expressed
keen interest, but said he would hear
charges. He made no definite state
ment, however
wrnf
EXPLANATION
Of
the Coming Ijiilior World Pence
Congress Kplaiueil Ily the
KederatiDiiist.
On March 3d. by the authority of the
San Francisco Convention of the Amcr-
World Peace Congress to be held at the
same time and place that the general
peace congress shall lie held in which the
political representatives of the various
countries shall meet to aid in determiii;
ing terms and conditions of peace at the
close uf the present European war. There
has been considerable misunderstand
ing as to the nature of the Labor's
World Peace Congress. These circulars
were sent to all nationals and interna
tionals as--well as to the press, that all
might know that the workers intended
to press home their, rights and the con
sideration of principles of human wel
fare in the world congress. From the
nature of such a congress it is neces
sary that those who are members of il
must represent the labor movement of a
country. Some of the nationals and in
ternationals of our country have under
stood the circular to mean that their
separate organizations are to be repre
sented. ISccause of the unwieldy num
bers and the expense it was thought best
by the San Francisco Convention to
recommend that the organized labor
movement of each country as a whole
should be represented by one or two
delegates to the general congress. This
irencral explanation is made that all mis-
t understanding ma) be cleared up.
The Building
Hold Regular Meeting.
Ask Relief. Garment Workers Remind Building
Trades to 'Get Their Union Made Shirts Early For
the Labor Day Parade. Director Friedlander Re
quested to Stop Firemen and Policemen From Doing
Building Trades Work.
The Building Trades Council was
called to order last Thursday night with
President Jos. A. Cullen in the chair.
The minutes of the previous meeting
were read and adopted,
istrict Council No. 12 stated that li.l
E. L.
Carr had been elected member of
the Jiuilding Trades Council. Mr. Carr
being present was duly obligated.
TJie following communication from
the Central Labor Council was read and
concurred in.
Cincinnati, Ohio, May 24, 11)10.
To All Affiliated Unions, Greeting:
At the meeting of the Central Labor
Council, Tuesday, May 2.'!, a communi
cation was received from the Executive
Hoard of the American Federation of
Labor, in which a strong appeal was
made in behalf of the members of the
Danbury Hatters' Union. Your organi
zation received the same communica
tion. The Council, fearing the grave
importance of that communication might
be underestimated by some of our local
organizations, directed its secretary to
call your attention to its importance
and to add the personal appeal of the.
Council to that of the American Feder
ation of Labor in urging jou to con
tribute to the Danbury Hatters.
Following is a part of the communi
cation referred to:
"The purpose of this circular is to
appeal to all workers who have not yet
contributed, to ask them now to make
their contributions to the Hatters' cause.
"Unless something is done, upon the
Danbury hatters in their old age must
fall great suffering and the loss of their
homes as a result of an effort to estab
lish principles that are of fundamental
importance to all workers of this coun
try. All workers who did not contribute
on January 27, 101U, arc earnestly re
quested to contribute the wages of an
hours labor on lliursuay, June 1j, luiu.
"Those who have contributed and feel
that they would like to do something
more to prevent distress falling upon
the Danbury hatters, may have this ad
ditional opportunity to help in this
cause. Let me urge that this matter be
taken up at the next meeting of jour
organization and that every member do
his full duty to the cause.
"Pay the hour's wages to the secre
tary of your union, who will transmit
the same to Frank Morrison, secretary,
American Federation of Labor, Ouray
liuilding, Washington, D. C. The offi
cers and members of the great rank and
file arc all urged to promptly give this
appeal their earnest, favorable and sjm
pathetic consideration and action."
The communication was signed by
President Gompers and the A. F. of L.
Executive Hoard.
Hoping this earnest appeal, coming as
it does, from jour local central body,
will meet with a ready response, 1 re
main, Fraternally,
W.m. Prout,
Secretary, Central Labor Council.
The following communication from
the United Garment Workers of mer-
Bail Notwithstanding
Trades Council
The Danbury Hatters Again
ica, Local Union No. 151, was read and
concurred in and ordered printed in the
Laiwr Advocate : t
Cincinnati, May 31, 1916.
Trade? Council, 2F. XveIftffSt.,
Cincinnati, Ohio :
Dear Sir We write jou with a view
of asking you to consider our local and
the shirts we make bearing the union
label when you order your Labor Day
shirts. We need not go into detail re
garding them, as jou no doubt have be
come acquainted with them. We have
always experienced around Labor Day
that we could not supply the union men
of our city with their Labor Daj- shirts,
because thev all seem to wait until the
last moment before placing their order
and naturally those that ordered first
got their shirts first, and we regret to
say a lot of the latest were disappointed.
Hesulcs tins we are informed by our
emplojes that it takes longer to get
goods in the present market, and this
will also necessitate that we receive our
orders early.
We trust jou will see our stand and
will consider and demand a Cincinnati
union-made shirt in placing your orders
as early as possible.
1 banking jou m ailyance lor your
kind attention, we remain,
Fraternallj- yours,
Local No. lol, United Garment
Workers or America.
Ihisiness Agent Hock read his week
ly report, which was adopted and order
ed filed for future reference.
The Labor Day Committee reported
progress.
The secretary was instructed to write
the Safety Director, Walter J. Fried
lander, and request that he stop firemen
and policemen from doing building
trades work.
All trades reported business good.
There being no further business the
meeting adjourned until next Thursday
night.
MUGAVIN, UNION
CHIEF, ARRESTED
Thomas II. Mugavin, president of
Cincinnati Central Labor Council, and
Frank Moore, of Columbus, Ohio, inter
national organizer of machinists, were
arrested at Columbus Thursday when,
according to Samuel Gompers, president
of the American Federation of Labor,
they tried to address a noon-day meeting
of men at the Jcffcry Manufacturing
Company.
Gompers charged that the arrests
were on orders of Police Chief Carter,
and said he would report the affair to
Governor Willis.
Gompers said he would demand that
Carter and Major Karb "cease interfer
ence with the 'right of free speech."
