lODAY'S PRICES
HOME EDITION
V M xun Tank note, (state btU) IZK9
1
E
i nun json 4 Mstcan gold
vians bills 1T Carranza cy.
'o 1 neir 6 Bar silver (Heady &
T r n quotation) 64 Copper S?.SO
'-- p -ttmdy livestock steady
1 k trr-gular
WEATHER FORKCAST.
KI raw and wet Texam. fair: Vew Mex
ico. Krnrrally fair; Arizona, fair.
LATEST NEWS BY ASSOCIATED PRESS.
SI.NC.LE COPT FIVE CENT8.
-gLgASO. TEXAS. SATURDAY EVENING. JUNE 3. 1916.
DELIVERED jfeitWHEBE 80 CENTS A MONTH. 36 PAGES. 4 SECTIONS. TODAY
f A CI, I
IPS BATTLE; 8000 LIVES ARE LOST
orLUiHULC
COL ROOSEVELT IS WAR CENTER
ISBN DRAFTS
T
H
CtHl
Preparedness and Foreign
Policies Are to Be the
Principal Planks.
St. Louis. Mo.. June 3. Preparedness
and foreign policies are to be the prin
cipal planks written into the Demo
cratic platform that will be drafted
here when the Democratic national
convention is held to nominate their
standard bearers for the campaign.
That president Wilson will sketch these
main planks of the party platform is
the understanding of certain members
of the subcommittee on arrangements
which held anotner meeting todav to
discuss arrangements.
It was suggested that the president
already has drawn the main plans of
i roe piatiorm ana that they wi . tie
I placed before the committee on resolu-
tions by senator Stone or someone who
- has the confidence of president Wilson.
I ine lartit and monetary questions
have been settled, according to the
Win rm TH t. l -"--cj uicwucia. ami iDcy will DO
HICAGO, IIL, June 3. The great only lightly touched on in the plat-
prepareaness parade, in which . torm.
opeaiter (.ramp uiarK win oe made
permanent chairman of the coming con
vention, if he finds that his duties in
congress will permit. That was the
understanding of party leaders here
today.
There was a formal opening today of
the headquarters for the national com
Million Residents, Bearing
Flags Or Lapel Emblems
Cheer on Line of March.
PEOPLE ARE FOR
PREPAREDNESS
All Nationalities Are Repre
sented In Parade; Em
ployers and Employes.
zve.iroo marchers were enroled.
started at 10 oclock today under per
fect weather conditions. Business in
the downtown district was practically
at a standstill, while nearly the entire
city devoted Itself in some way to the
dmnnitratlnn T -.. a.i-..i.j .i - mittee.
. T. in . """ Martin Glynn, former governor of
'. persons pacKea Grant Park, New York, was elected temporary
near the starting place, and the side
lines along its three and one-half mile
route.
Marching IS abreast, according to
tabulations by a corps of clerks. 2S0S
paraders passed the reviewing stands
in the first 12 roinuf& t
Reviewers riavt'Lons Siege.
It was said, at this rate, it was evi
dent that the 200,460 persons could
swt march, unless the- demonstration
were continued until 4 oodoj tomor
row. Major Thompson, prepared for a
long siege. Jjad arrassejl- for lunches to
be brought t4tAtpefewlB5 stand.
EveryPo Ha a Flag.
Trains from the suburbs and neigh
'boring states poured their loads
through the city's gateways to mingle
'rwith the holiday throng. Every bit of
'space where a spectator might view the
marchers was taken and nearly every
body -amed flags, or at least coat
lapel emblems.
Throughout the city, homes, business
, offices and factories were vivid with
patriotic colors.
Direct Parade By Telephone.
Two thousand five hundred police
men kept the line of march clear. The
parade was managed from a central
telephone office in direct connection
Svith 120 substations. Thus Gen. E. C.
l oung. I N G-, grand marshal, through
Cart Sheldon, his aid. was ible at
all times to maneuver the various great
divisions.
All Nationalities Represented.
All branches of the city's life were
represented and all nationalities,
straight Yankee. English. French. Ger
man. Austrian, Russian. Italian, Greek
all of Europe and part of Asia. Many
women were in line and there '-were
millionaires, too, heads of Chicago's
greatest industries, who were not con
tent to arrange for the appearance of
their employes, but insisted on en
roling themselves.
Two Parades Xecear).
So great was the enthusiasm with
w hicb Chicago rose to the spirit of the
preparedness demonstration that two
parades were necessary, one in the day
and one at night.
More than 150,000 men and women
took part in the parade today. h-vln
pledged themselves to do so, rain or
shine. The women said that If It
rained they would wear their old
clothes and would not let their en
thusiasms be quenched by fear of a
drenching.
The day parade formed this mora
ine in Michigan avenue, south of Van
Buren street. The men and women j
I mat tooK part came xroro near-iy an
2-trades and proiessions.
chairman of the Democratic national
convention by a subcommittee on ar
rangements of the national committee
hare tonight. .
J. Bruce Kremer, national commit
teeman from Montana, was chosen tem
porary secretary of the convention and
John R. Larkin temporary sergeant at
arms.
G. 0, P. CONTESTS
SLILFJETREO
Chairman Hilles Says Sun
day Session of National
Committse May Be Held.
Additional Politics, rage 13.
Chicago, IIL, June 3. When the Re
publican national committee recon
vened today the first business was vote
on the Louisiana contests. Arguments
of opposing delegations were Heard In a
long session Friday night that re
cessed just before midnight after Jteat
ed discussion.
According to chairman Hilles, the
work of settling the contests has pro
gressed so slowly that it might be
necessary to bold a Sunday session.
Death Settle One Context.
A. B. Wood, 75 years of age, of Mul
halL Okla, a contested delegate from
the Fifth district, died at & hospital
today while the national committee
was hearing the contest. Death was
uue iu we iniirmiues or old age.
St. Loulx Contest Settled.
The committee todav turned to a St.
Louis congressional district contest.
wuicii was aeciaea in tavor of A. C
Knnze and Frederick W. Breckmann.
who asserted the regularity of their se
lection. The Louisiana contest vata ..miniui
as likely to develop much discussion of
FACTIONS IREf llf fiKES M IEHMT.
TRYING FIR ! CMS ENGLAND BADLY BEATEN
GOHMSE
Progressives Insist Roosevelt
Should Be Nominated for
The Presidency.
REPUBLICANS ARE
RATHER OPPOSED
Favor Leaving Roosevelt
Out, Leaving Progressives
Name Vice President.
r HICAGO. IIL, June 3. Progressive
party leaders, after conferring to
day, declared their intention of
using every influence at their com
mand to induce the Republican national
convention to nominate Theoaore
the evidence and irnmunt hV vm- I Roosevelt for president. If they fail
day night. The delegates headed by Ax- I to make Roosevelt the Republican
mond Romain contended that they reo-
.rcri. nc icsuidf xicpuoucan organiza
tion of Louisiana.
J. Madison Vance, (negro) contesting
delegate at large, the leader of the op
Pf Ins facjHpp, attacked the regularity
of the Roraain delegates, charging that
negro voters qualified to attend the
convention had been unable to attend
as the convention was held in a New
Orleans hotel" from which negroes were
barred. ,
nominee, they say they are willing to
consider the qualifications of other can
didates. Numerous informal confer
ences between Progressive and Repub
lican groups have been held and others
are scheduled in the effort to bring
about harmony.
Thirty-four British Capital Ships, Aside From Torpedo
Boat Flotillas, "Were Engaged, Says Berlin; Battle Was
Divided into Two Sections, Battle Cruisers Queen
Mary and Indefatigable Sunk in Daylight Fighting.
BERLIN', Germany, Jun 2. (By
wirless from a staff correapend
ent of the Associated Press.)
The first naval battle on a grand scale
during the present war has been at
tended by results, which, according to
the information received here, are
highly satisfactory to the Germans,
not only in respect of the comparative
the weather was hazy. The German
torpedo boats and destroyers were
more effective than the British ac
counting to a considerable extent for
the German success against an over
whelmingly superior force.
Battle Cruiser Sank During Dy.
It is understood the Queen Mary and
the Indefatigable were both sunk In the
day battle. It has not been learned
when the Warspite and the other
British warships went down. (The loss
losses of the two fleets, but in the of the Warspite is denied officially by-
fact that the Germans maintained the "" """s?: tm, ,, , c.
suc uexanau snip sidwi J r
AH the German warships- except
those mentioned in the official report
reached Wilhemshaven safely. Thus
far nothing has been reported regard
ing me extent wnicn any or. tcese ves
sels
field after the battle. This is shown.
German commentators assert, by the
rescue of the British survivors.
The full German high sea fleet was
engaged under personal command of
vice admiral Scheer. the energetic I
were damaged. A fuller report
! from admiral Scheer Is expected soon.
it is statea at tne aunuraity that at
least 31 British capital ships were en
gaged and that the British torpedo
boat flotillas were severely handled.
The battleship Westfalen alone sank
six torpedo boats during the night encounters.
German personnel and material alike
German commander who succeeded ad
miral von PohL The British fleet is
now estimated at approximately twice
as strong in guns and ships as that
under admiral Scheer
Battle In Two Sections.
Detailed reports have not et been
received but the main engagement ap
parently occurred about 13 miles . stood the test brilliantly and the dam
southwest of the southern extremity ; age sustained by the German fleet Is
of Norwas and laO miles off the Dan- i small in comparison with the British
ish coast The battle was divided into losses. The battleship Pommern. which
two sections. was sunk, was commanded, by Capt.
The day engagement began at about Boelken.
4 oclock in the afternoon and contin- . Berlin I Rejoicing.
ued until about 9 oclock. This was j Berlin Is decked with flags and the
'" " .a. wtiM oi kio cu- . acnievement of tne ueonav neei nas
German Dreadnought West"
falen and Cruiser Elbing
Added to Ships Sun.
BRITISH ADMIRAL '
SINKS WITH SHIP.
Every Man On Board Battle
Cruiser Queen Mary Per
ished Durini Battle.
gaseroenls throughout the night.
MI INS
NEIAHLl
Wasrlngton, D. C, June 3. President
WHson today signed the army reor
ganization bill, the r.rst of the Im
portant preparedness measures passcl
by congress during the present session.
The president has been studying the J
dui carefully for more than a week. He
used a pen belonging to sen tor Smith
of South Carolina, who desired it for a
souvenir
nam
DERAILED T
FALLS IN IER;
mniiEMioan orifa.iirzai.icin leantira iiu-
' r 1 - T -a. T"-- -- - -
j. xie tsaci rauises ana course at ine
day light have not been ascertained.-
WRECK'S DEATH
TOLL MAY BE 25
"Waterloo, Iowa, June J. The num
ber of dead in the wrecK of the Rock
Island passenger train which plunged
through a bridge at Packard. Iowa.
yesterday, will reach 25. chief Dunham '
of the Waterloo fire department, who
Is directing search for the bodies, said
today.
STANDARD OIL COMPANY HAS
ABANDONED CHINESE FIELD
Pekln. China. June 3. The Standard
Oil company has withdrawn all its pros-
nMlAr anil iiiinmnt frm. CKa.o
province and has definitely abandoned
the boring of wells in search for oIL The
last of its drilling crew has returned
to 7Alcin and will ssfl fnr the TTmltiwI
The middle- ' States in a few days.
aged and the gray-haired walked While there is still a possibility that
briskly along -with strapping 3 oung- i the Standard Oil company and the Clu
sters, all inspired by the general en
thusiasm. the crashing sound of drum
and ben and the waving of thousands
of flags.
Formation of the Marcher.
The formation of toe marchers con
sisted of the following distribution:
Platoon of police, mounted trumpet
ers, a group repreeaUnB the famous
- picture. "The Spirit of T": grand
r-uirsuai .. :. loung ana sum, ini
rtgo court judges, mayor William H.
Thompson, members of the city coun
cil and various city departments.
Grand Army of the Republic veterans,
Spanish War veterans and -cadets from
military training camps. This formed
the advance of the parade and. then
came the main division, as foHows:
First diision Commercial and in
dustrial interests.
Second division Bankers, insurance
nese government may reach an acre-
ment to conduct some further prospect
ing work some time in the future, there
is believed to.be little likelihood that
such action will be taken soon.
u
S. MAY HAVE DIRIGIBLES
AS RESULT OF SEA BATTLE
Washington. D. C, June 3. Con
struction by the navy department of
dirigible aircraft of v the zeppelin type
may be urged by secretary of the navy
Daniels in the near future as a result
of the North sea battle and the slow
ness of commercial development of such
construction in this country.
"At first blush," secretary Daniels
said, "it looks as though the Germans
nao ees in the air and the British had
Spokane. Wash., June 3. Great
Northern passenger engine, pulling
train No. -4, was derailed and fell Into
the Gootenal river, near Katka, Idaho,
today. H. A. McGinn, engineer, and K.
Deoipsey. fireman, both of Hlllyard,
Wash, are missing. Coaches of the
train remained on the track.
Up to noon today six bodies had been
recovered from the day coach, which Is
partly submerged In the waters of the
creek. Rescuers reported that six or
seven more bodies were visible in the
car.
Six persons numbered among the
missing now are believed to be dead.
Woman Hides Meat Under
Clothes To Smuggle It
When a Mexican woman was searched
a the Santa Fe stret bridge Friday af
ternoon 10 see if sne had any dutiable
goods concealed on her person, the in
spector discovered that the woman
had a side of .beef wrapped around her
waist.
She had concealed the meat under her
clothes and was trying to smuggle it
into the United States when the decep
tion was discovered and the meat con
fiscated and. destroyed.
The limit to the amount of meat that
can be brought from Juarez Is five
pounds and the woman was attempting
to bring over several times this quan
tity of meat.
PRESIDENT MAY VISIT DEMING
ON FALL TRIP TO SOUTHWEST
Deming. N. M-. June 3. President
Wilson may visit Deming when he
comes to the southwest for the dedica
tion of the Elephant Butte dam next
October.
An invitation has been sent to the
president by the Deming ehamfaer of
commerce and a reply has been received
from secretary Tumulty, saying that the
parentiy are doing: nothing to offend
tho friends of Roosevelt in the pre
1 liminary maneuvers. They are willing.
J is sale!, fJette Progressives dic-
1 tate the party platform and name the
candidate for vice president but they
are vigorously opposed to nominating
Roosevelt for president.
They hope to select a man whom
Roosevelt and his friends can support
on a platform of Americanism and pre
paredness. They profess to believe that
Roosevelt will not run as a third party
candidate and that he may be Induced
to endorse one of several candidates
now in the field.
Conferences neld.
Geo. W. Perkins, chairman of the
executive committee of the Progressive
party, said:
"There have been a number of con
ferences between the Republican and
Progressive leaders, but nothing defi
nite has been accomplished. It is too
early to hope for anything definite at
this time, as only a small percentage
of the delegates to tbe Republican na
t'onal convention are in the city. We
are for Roosevelt to the end and in
sist he should be nominated. We are
willing to meet the Republicans half
way In the interest of harmony. And
we repeat that harmony Is not neces
sarily predicated on the nomination of
Roosevelt."
Ilrldccn :ot Burned.
Chester H. RowelL a 'rogreselve
leader from California, said:
"Progressives are very positively for
Roosevelt. Not that there Is no other
candidate who might be acceptable,
but because there is no occasion to con
sider any other candidate at this time.
We feel there is no reason for the Re
publicans to accept Roosevelt's poli
cies without the man. He has made
the issues of this campaign.
"Of course, we have not burned our
bridges behind us which, in the end
would absolutely prevent the con
sideration of another man if Roose
velt is not nominated by tbe older
party."
It is assumed the ranges of t 'i day
engagement were not extreme possibly
at a. distance of about eight miles, .as
aroused the greatest enthusfam. There
was a remarkable demonstration in the
relchstag when rear admiral Hebblng
haus, former naval attache to the Ger
man embassy at V. asbingtun. tn
ouaeed U" result or the battle.
JDIRAL SCHEER , BATTLE UPROAR
DIRECTS ATTACK! SHAKES THE SEI
Vice Admiral Hipper, Com
manding German Scout
Division, Opens Battle.
Sailors on Merchant Vessel
TJnahle to Stand oh Deck
During Cannonading.
Copenhagen. Denmark, June J.
first personal account of the great sea
Amsterdam. Holland, June 3. Ad
vices from Berlin say that vice admiral
Scheer, commander of the German bat- j battle was brought here by the captain
tie fleet, was in personal command of I of the Danish steamer Naesborg. who
the German forces in the battle off ! said:
Jutland, while the scout division was "When the Naesborg was 9 i miles
under the direction of vice admiral j west of Cape Honstholm. on the north
Hipper. The German forces present
consisted of tbe German high seas fleet
LONDON. Kng, June J. Loss of life.
on the British side in the great
battle of 15 warships. May 31.
off Jutland is estimated this afternoon
at EM officers and men. Earlier esti
mates of German losses placed the Ger
man total at 2eo to 30M, but as later
reports add to the number and impor
tance of German ships sunk, it may bo
that the German casualties will almost
equal the British.
Practically the n,tir- crews of th-
battle cruisers Inn. 1 . Irdefatigable
miral Horace Huod w. j;i iiow-i wit
J tbe Invincible Capt Pt'iwbb and t!
wuvxv . vi tue w"n jiaj were
lost. The Germans are known to have
lost heavily from the battleships Pom
mern and Westfalen. as well as from
the cruisers and destroyers sank.
Admiral Loses Life.
In the British casually list are in
cluded captain Prows, and the entire
complement of the battle cruiser Queen
Mary, which probably had betweed S0O
and 950 men on board. Rear admiral
Horace Hood was lost with the battle
cruiser Invincible.
Wounded men from the engagement
have begun to arrive in London to
day. Dreadnought Westfalen Lost.
The German dreadnought Westfalen.
of 1S.S06 tons has been added to tbe
' i e- . ... uc vi inKIA BUUlk
1 in tne great naval engagement off tne
. ioe 1
GERMAN-AMERICANS OPPOSE
WILSON AND ROOSEVELT
with dreadnoughts, older ships of the
line, battle cruisers, all the light sea
forces at present in the North sea. tor
pedo destroyers and submarine flotilla.
Hipper Kncnsrril Dritlah Squadron.
Admiral Hipper came in contact
with the enemy about five in the af
ternoon, when he engaged a souadron
of British battle -cruisers and lieht
I west coast of Jutland, a few small
!' British warships appeared, pursued by
tbe German fleet. Suddenly the British
. warships turned and steamed west
I ward, violently shelled In a few raln-
I utes a large number of British dread
I nought cruisers appeare 1 from
north and west.
"The British then began
Jutland coast, according to a wireless
dispatch from Rerlin
Additions earlier in the day were the
German cruiser Elbing, displacing be-
tween 4000 and SAM tons, and the Brlt-
1 ish destroyer Shark. Xearlv all the
men who manned the destroyer were
lost.
j The Elbing was a ew and fast
ST? . r and catr'ed a crew of 450. The
British gunfire caused such destruction
of the ship that captain Madling. who
was among the three officers saved.
decided to have the valves opened aild
J to allow the vessel to sink
Sefe-re the Elbing went down, the
majoritv of th rror w. t.v.. .. ....
the b' German torpedo boat, but doubts
1 -"j ms "dccito as to whether the
. sailors arrival Mflv . Ymtt...)..i...
.(ta.lrliir. .a. ... clMU
..wv.ub .c tvtsniy-ooe
man Ama.A. ....
cruisers. Subseouentlv th wbola fleets th German ships, which were rein- ! hoar "nt" the vessel foundered, when
on both sides engaged and the fighting forced by a Urge number of ships '""j. A?Jlna J"'50'- Later ther
ih?'2.3..t,,. '" tDe evenI.nS lr iD , " th south along tbe west coast SU tLjn DeftrSe ?"
iS.e.n,S.t.lhrL.Yf &XIJSSS!: I of Jutland. A violent fight commenced A reportTromDThe,,!a r
and cruisers. The leadine German I Tn 7 seemed filled with smoke and ?"ded from Amsterdam to the Central
,. . j , . -m-- , .. - -."t. 0M7S ail. ixrnian nar,-A,r mrav.
vessel alone sank six modern de
stroyers. Grrmnn, Crr Are Rracued.
All reports from the German sea
forces which participated In the bat
tle agree on the bravery shown by the
enemy in tbe long battle. The crews
of the German torpedo boats which
were sunk hae not been heard from,
out the majority of the men on the
other vessels which were lost were res
cued, despite unfavorable weather. Na
val airships gave valuable aid in re
connoitering before and after the
oauie.
the sea was In a state of uproar. Shells
fell around our steamer although we
were several miles away.
Cannonadine Violent.
"During the fight the cannonading
was so violent that our crew could not
stand on deck We saw several large
warships sunk but I am unable to say
whether they were British or German.
"At last the German fleet withdrew
southward, pursued by the British whil
several more British warshios ap
peared, coming from the westward.
Vice admiral Scheer was appointed P"1?- on of which escaped.
The fate
commander of the German battle fleet ne otner fleet I do not know."
,tt'!tti'JZ8l "" I JHJ February, succeeding admiral von
-w -..v. ..-.-..-,-..,,. ..vu-u.w.. ., s.uwu, , r0ni wnn
president -would give the matter careful I Theodore Roosevelt and Elihu Root j aealth.
wiiaiucrauuii. " : - . i . - man a ot me U
If the invitation is accepted the presi- rh7'r7m.wwni L 1 fo8h a attle with tbe Br.tish squad-
uem win come nere aner nis ki i-aso i.-.i7 . .
.M?"? on " i TWO ZEPPELINS DESTROYED
mand of 'the German squadron which DURING THE NAVAL BATTLE
speech and will be given
demonstration on the border
a great
I An amendment was adopted, invit
ing all German SDeakinir societies to
aid in preenting the reelection of I iMrrnnv it- rr n ...
president Wilson. I "v.ium ai OCA WVUdLO
ron under admiral Sir David Beattv off i "r'., V"""' ..June 3 Two
Helgoland in Januarv 11; ! 'pPeV1 "8iie Daiioons are re
ew. says six German rlBti-rwr rca-..
sunk by the British and that a larsa
cruiser severely damaged, was towed
into the harbor at Kiel.
fc5 of Shark's Crenr Lost.
Eighty-five of the crew of 92 men
aboard the British destroyer Shark,
were lost, in the belief of seven sur
vivors who were landed at Hull Frldar
by a Danish steamship.
Although the Shark was not named
in the official reports of British losses,
it was said several destroyers in addi
tion to those identified as lost, have
not been accounted for.
99 Lost With Torpedo Boat.
An exchange Telegraph dispatch from
Copenhagen says the German torpedo
boat V-2S was sank during the naval
engagement. Three survivors who
were rescued from a raft by a Swedish
steamship reported, the dispatch says,
that all the rest of the crew of 102
The allea-ed anti-German attitude of
Wilson. Roosevelt and Root gave rise
to the resolution.
not. Of course, fuller information nut
r..en, railroaders, telephone employes. !C,TH.e .hi! tf.,Ti.
.fvll ...wrineorK. brokers, members and played a big part in this battle.
THREE ARE KILLED, MANY
INJURED IN BIG STORM
Columbus. Oh In Jnn 2 Thr ara
!?!? scor?8 are injured and heavy i QCMATF MAY THANr.P
pruperiy aamage nas been done in i - .....
southwestern Ohio as a result of a ter- NAVY APPROPRIATION BILL
H
civil engineers, brokers, members and
employes of the board of trade.
Third d'vislon Semi-military or
ganizations, clubs and societies.
Fourth division Business men,
north of Madison street, outside of the
loop.
Fifth division Business men eoutn
f Madison street, outside of the
oon 1
Sixth division National guard
troops.
The judges of the municipal court
joined tbe circuit and superior court
judges at the head of a lawjers' di
vision, with Bdgar B. Tolman as chair
man There was a gathering of firerren
number about 70S, under fire marshal
Thomas O'Conner's direction.
The drug clerks' organization
swelled the ranks of the marchers and
members who are here from all parts
of the United States attending tbe
(Continued on rate z. CeL 3)
AMBASSADoA. TO U. S.
IS HO.NOHKD BY KING
London. Eng.. June 3. Sir Cecil Ar-
ine center or tbe disturbance was
near Moscow, 26 miles from Cincin
nati. A path a mile wide and several
miles long was cut by the storm in
thur Spring Rice. British ambassador i fi?" 5un"- Dayton and vicinity
to the United States, is made grand . ;LrVBea
commander of the Order of St. Michel I ""ww'-
ALL GERMANY TO REJOICE
Berlin. Germany. June 3. An army
order was issued today, commanding
that flags be raised throughout the
city and exercises be held in schools in
ported by fishermen, returning ia nnrt i Ajota.,....- .. hi -..- - ... .-
Li" K..Ten"n ""I'?1 '" tB vors of the V-28 said they believed
n?.raI batUe-. .n .one airship all the ! 2e German toroedo boats were de-
crew are reported to nave perished. ' stroved otuI ik h. .. u.... .
Zennellns Krn nf vi
London. Kng., June - The Daily
Express says:
undouDtedly zeppelins aided the
riIM u-lnd bak .i.-j at... :
Complete renorts ,, 6n , ,8. .?-h""?ton. D. C. June 3,-Chairman
crease the list of dead. - - unman. ji the senate naval committee.
fight in tbe senate to change the naval
appropriation bill so as to provide for
six battle cruisers and two dread-
: nauabts. instead of five battle cruiser
and no battleships, as in the bill passed
by the house yesterday.
AMattVa eat4 1aa& n a.. & .
celebration of the naval victory.. . . TneTmonsKrs"oflthe i,V h.VS;
storm damage estimated at
and St. George in king George's birth
day honors list made public today. Sir j
Gilbert Parker becomes a privy conn- j
cillor and baron Reading, lord chief I
justice of England, who recently vis
ited the United States as chairman of
the commission which negotiated the
Anglo-French loan, is given the title
of viscount.
ROOSEVEIT MEN FORM CLUB.
Tucson. Ariz., Jun 3. Tucson Kotse
velt men expected today to complete
a membership roll of 1000 In the Tuc
son RtftfWlhlimin nnA,.att lnh Wltr
Wakefield is president of the club The water fronts of San Fraiuisco. !
which will work to swing the state 1 Seattle, Tacoma, Portland San Diego
for Roosevelt and San Pedro were still tied un tndnv I
ONE MAX IS KILLlirt
IN LOt;MIOKBMB.VS STRIKE j
San Francisco. Cal.. June 3. One j
casually resulted today from the strike J
of Pacific coast longshoremen. T. C. j
Hug-ttos. of Los Angeles, a workman
employed on the Milwaukee pier in :
Seattle, was shot and probably fatally
wounded shortly after midnight, when ,
a group of strike sympathizers at
tacked a warehouse where a number of i
employes were sleeping. At Portland i
sevenl fist fights occurred between
strike and nonunion workmen.
Cloudcroft a Wonderful
Place.
Tea, Cloudcroft is El Paso's sum
mer resort and it truly is a wonder
ful place to spend your summer
vacation. But in order to be well
pleased, ou will want The Herald
to follow ygu. The subscription
rate is 0c per month. Bailey's
Pharmacy at Cloudcroft will deliver
The Herald to you at that price
immediately after the train arrives.
Cant. Peraiua. naval xnrt
Tageblatt. savs:
"Our high seas fleet, in open battle
and without any support of coast for
tifications, gave a victorious battle to
tbe mightiest fleet in the world. The
whole of Germany thanks the com
mander in chief and the commanders
and crews, our losses were extraor-
dlnarily small while Great Britain 3
were extraordinarily large."
The Tasres Zeituner sa-Vs:
"Our fleet has resisted brilliantly in
I this battle the greatest which has
I been fought since the inception of steel
j plated armor and our flag has been
1 covered with everlasting glory."
i GERMAN FI.KBT I IIKTIIUAT.
. THROWS OlT MAM' MINKS
rtr th ' ., . .. .: .'
. .-- i ucniniia oi small military value in
'" v.vi iw oriusn counties, their
real function, however, is to play the
part of ees of the fleet and the with
drawal of tbe German ships before
the British giants could deliver ef
fective blows, suggests that they were
tbe far-seeing eyes.
FEW FRAUENL0B SURVIVORS
REACH HOOK OF HOLLAND
The Hook. Holland. June 3 One
Frauenlob survivor, midshipman Stoli
mann, said be believed his sea com
panions who were brought here were
mo uoij men 10 escape He reports
that his hip was fighting from C
uciucik in ine evening
whole were "collossal.'
German Losaea Increaae.
The British public, who retired laj.:
night cast down b the first news of
the North Sea battle as contained in the
earlier British and German reports, took
some comfort toda from the later re
ports. These reports, while not decreaa
mc the British losses, evept in destroy
ers, which were reduced from 11 to
eight, bhow the losses of the Germans
were much greater than was at first es
timated. According to this latest ac
count, the German losses include two
battleships, one battle cruiser, one light
cruiser and six destroj era sunk, two
battle cruisers damaged and three bat
tleships hit. Naval writers also point
out that the German fleet retired as
soon as the main British fleet appeared.
so that there is no quesion about the
superiority of sea power remaining tn
British hands. The loss of British ships,
is of course, admittedly serious while
the loss in officers and men has cast a
until 1 a'aImIf
, Copenhi-, en. Denmark. June 3. Dur- in the morning, when she was tor- "ilT. Li2, ,h. h2i- ..StrV
Ing the i rest of the German fleet ' pedoed. I Bloom over the whol country.
ivniifiiv .
Capt. William Hall, chief of the in
j large num rs of mines were thrown Other survivors say the British were
; out. Frida. several German floating hopelessly outnumbered by the Ger-
niinu neic th in me ,iurui kk. aun& wnu nxu uicir latest dread
Fishermen say that a cruiser struck nought in action and thought the
a mine 50 ml! s northwest of tne Wyl British were easy prey Suddenly the
lightship. Onv a few men - f tbe crew I British grand fleet came up and the
wem cta. - uennaiis niaue a runnins: rtaht of lt
tellbjence dU islon of the admiralty, au
thorises the Associated Press to say:
"Tbe German report of the loss of .he
Marlborough and Warspite is absolutely
(Continued on Page S, Column 4.)
E . . - ' .-.. - - W.MM.US uaw luHutug ilgnt oi ll. iuniineu on ase a. voiumn t
very Residence Street Can Have Wide Parkwaj's If the People Want Them
