3
DECISIVE VICTORY FOR AMERICANISM IN PORTLAND, ORE.
A we k to press, newt come of mother decisive municipal victory for the patriotic upholders of funda
mental democracy. Portland, Orcein, ha just elected twenty -seven out of thirty-three candidates endorsed by the
patriotic voters of the city. Here, as in Kansas City, and other important municipalities where the patriots have
simpS adapted the tactics cj political Runurriim, since the Knights of Columbus and the American rederation of
Catholic Societies got actively into politics, the patriotic upholders of the democracy of Jefferson, Wash
ington and Lincoln, have met the hierarchy at its oyn xjmf A- Full particulars of the great victory,
next week. Every patriot should read this story giving another illustration tf hex the friends ef free institutions
can win the day in city, state and nation, next November.
This It Number 267
m
633
R. C. CONGRESSIVIENJDEFEAT HOME RULE
Oppose Philippine Independence Because "Church Dignitaries" So Willed
Bolt Their Party Caucus, Desert Their Own Administration, Ignore the
Platform Pledge of Their Party, and Revolt Against President
All to Protect Papal Property Interests in the Islands
N the first dav Of the lllessed I
LV1 month of Mary' one of
fill those mysterious happenings
mm) iwurml in rnnirri which
the average editor fails to explaiu
because he doesn't dare to tell the
truth about it On May 1, thirty
IVmocratic congressmen, repudiat
ing the action of their own party
caucus, voted with the Republican
ia the IIoue of RepreM-nlativ.. to
defeat the adminii-tration measure
providing for the inflependencu of
the Philippine Inlands ia from two
to four years.
The Ilouse had under considera
tioa Seuate bill 31, already oaoed
by that body with tht approial if
President 'ilon to redeem the
pledge made in the Democratic plat
form. In addition to providing a
more efficient adminiatration for
the Philippine Islands, it contained
what waa known a the Clarke
amendment, a party measure de
eigned to grant independence to the
Filipinos within four jeara from its
passage, and approval.
One can xeedily understand why
Republican congressmen lined up
solidly against the bill. Ihey de
sired whatever credit might be
claimed for so great an act to re
dound to their own party. They
did sot intend for the Democratic
administration to ret any glory by
means of their rotes. The Repub
licans may be in power neit year,
and their leaders wished to save to
themselves and their own party
whatever approval might fall to the
freedom-giving administration.
But the Democrats had plenty of
votes to pass th? bill at the present
time. Each and every one of them
was duty bound to support it be
cause of tht pledget made in the
national platform upon which they
had campaigned and had I ten
elected. Wherefore the amazement
of the whole country when the
Clarke amendment, granting Fili
pino independence, was defeated by
a decisive rote of 213 to 165 de
feated because thirty NOMINAL
Democrats turned against the meas
ure they were morally bound to
support, and voted solidly against
it
The press comment on this most
extraordinary occurrence has leen
roost voluminous. It was generally
supposed that Philippine Indepen
dence was assured ; and that the hill
would go through with the united
support of a Democratic congress.
Most Democratic papers stoutly de
clare that these thirty revolting
congressmen of their party had
united to embarrass President Wil
son. Rut what was the motive?
That it has embarrassed the presi
dent, none can doubt; but he says
not a word to heighten their sup
posed satisfaction. The White
Ilouse seems reluctant to say any
thing concerning this mishap to
partv and presidential plans. More
mvstery.
Fortunately, there is n press cor
respondent who sees this matter as
it is; and who gives us the inter
pretation thereof in the New York
Evenina Pott of May 8. The gen
tlemen's name is David Lawrence,
and he seem to be a regular Wash
ington correspondent of the paper
which prints his solution of the
puzzle: Says he:
An Extraordinary Occurrence
Who killed the Philippine Independ"
ore bill In tne House me otner na.vT
Not a Detnberatie insurgency that rea
soned in consonance with Kepuhlican doe
trine that the people of the Philippine
are not now and never will be fit for self
government ; not the broad-vieioned Dem
ocrats who foremw diplomatic entangle
ments ia the far Eatt that made it eeera
wiair not to eompromiiie the t'nited
(Hates in three times of stress with any
future pledge; not the Democrats who
wanted to show their indifference to
President Wilson 's desires, their freedom
from eieeutive coercion.
Washington has been seething: with
foasip about on or tne most eiiraorur
nsjr occurrences in me nisiory or tne. in tne revolting iriui mr ioeir
American rongre , an event obscured by "high-minded" stand was predicated on
groater problem that are before the the uposition that they rually had as
nuhtic: a roll call lost in the concurrence swd the problem involved ia Philip-
... ...
of Interests opposed to the bill and con-
veniently forgotten because to make fur
ther controversy over the matter would
sire no useful purpose.
If the responsible officers of the Ad
ministration would speak out if the
Democratic leaders in congress would
dar to any it, the influence of a political
element ia the Catholic ehnrck would be
HlQMt- ile ikisg latt eaoadljr with, Iff XaJfAC fejM
"t U the Deswratia lukt That U
the mnfl.lcDt belief of aisar people la
the s lnnnmrsiHis. who wUI tell you In
cidentally that out of the thirty Demo
crat who voted aaramst independence
thereby insuring its defeat, evil but one
or to were Catholic, whereas eut f
1 IVsfloerats voting for the MO only
tiro or three were Cathohca. The rmlmy
of Iriah names recorded against Philip
pine independence presented to many
here a humorous psrsdoi in view of the
recent efforts on behalf of dependence
Biade by members of the same race
other part of the globe.
There you have it, plain as plain
ness ran make it; not from Tni
MtSAcr, or the Guardians of lib
erty, or the Maons, or from any of
those peraons or organizations which
are said to be intent upon misrep
resenting the blensed church of the
centuries; but from a newspspcr
man who knows the news wheu he
sees it, and, in this instance hu
put it past the Roman Catholic
censorship, into print And Mr.
Iawrence does not leave us with a
mere statement and bare assertion.
He also tells us why these, twenty-
odd papist- moved in a body to de
sert their party caucus and antag
onize the administration of which
they are supposed to be a sytnpa
thetic part He continue:
But there was no parados ia the vote,
do contradiction that cannot be oi
plained, la fact, some days before th
final rote was taken ominous warnings
wr beard in administration quarter of
th certain defeat of th bill, "bocauat
th church was against It" Also, a few
who voted f"r th bill were heard to re
mark that they cast their vote because
they wanted to register their opposition
"to th eburrh." On member of con
gress who voted against th bill remarked
in a moment of indiscretion that certain
church dignitaries wanted the bill killed,
and he proposed to follow their advice.
lie mentioned names, too.
To whom did those Roman Cath
olio congTmen yield their first
allegiance? To the sovereign on
the Tiber, or to the Democracy
voiced in the Declaration of Inde
pendence, inserted in the Demo
cratic platform and urged by the
Democrat president? Here we
have a concrete illustration of a
fact that is constantly in evidence,
and that gives emphasis to the con
tention of patriots that Roman
Catholics are wan-ing against our
constitution and the genius of our
free institutions BECAUSE TF1KY
OWE AND YIELD THEIR
FIRST ALLEGIANCE TO A
F O R E I G X SO VEREIG XT Y
They are hyphenated Americans in
the worst sense of the term, s-nce
their first allegiance is yielded rot
to America but to a foreign sov
ereign. Bluffed Into SQence
The correspondent further as
sures us that many in Washington
lenew the coterie of Roman Cath
olic lobbyists uho mere busily en
gaged in the effort to kill Philippine
independence; vet not a voice was
heard in debate courageous enough
to characterize the opposition." He
expresses the belief that if the
Washington lobby which carried on
this work were exposed it would be
"repudiated by broad-minded Cath
olics. Mr. Iwrcnce hasn't vet
discovered tha the broad-minded
souls of that communion were long
ago excommunicated; and that the
honent ones trho remain are classed
as "children" of the alleged church
without anv voice trhatever in its
management. Further:
The administration is making no com
plaint It accepted its defeat with good
grai-e. It was nut a personal revolt
against the president. Casual examina
tion of the list of the men who voted
against independence will reveal some
stanch friends of Mr. Wilson, men whose
names have been aligned with his many
times in the past and will continue to be
ia the future. All the mors reason, in
deed, why the charge of Catholic in
fluence carries conviction.
There are a great many people here
who believe it waa a good thing that th
bill waa killed yet who do not approve
of the methods by which it was sent to
its death. The applause that was given
i. . ... . . . . i
PenvM
pine independence, and had armed at a
serious conclusion on the subject How
little this was true is admitted privately,
though thoughtlessly, by some of the
very men who helped kill the measure.
So it seems that in Washington,
D. C, the politioal Romanists actu
ally do wiait some things private-
charged them publiclv,
Ilot
haughtily they declare with the air
of injured innocence thai they were
eiected at patriotic A mem ant triM
out any consideration of their
chunk a filiations. And yef, Aor
effectively they rcrlr together at
tubjectt of their pope nhen tht in
terestt of tht Koman t alhohc cor
poration demand it. The following
is rather apologetic; but the reader
can readily separate the wheat from
the chaff and get the essence with
out having to allow the sweeten
ing:
"Immense Propertj Holding!'
As for the Catholic church's interest
ia defeating th legislation, there is no
gainsaying its equity. It had natural
and legitimate apprehensions over th
situation. The churoh has immense prop
erty holdings ia th Philippines. These
might be iliMurbed if unrest were to
be bred by a pledge of early independ
ence. HoMing this conviction, the
church eiercised its right as an interested
party to eipreas its view. What disin
terested ol servers her do not like alout
the busine was fft uereoy if aoA
the eomrstjr conducfed end tht
olid vole along etlxgiou Iwtcj that fol
lowed. Having found that th admin
istration leaders did aot beliet th prop
erty ef th Catholic church or its in
fluence in the island would be Jeop
ardised by th bill that waa up for pas
safe, the people who represented th
property owners kept up their fight, car
rying it defiantly to ths men who were
religiously sympathetic or feared that
oppeeitve to the rauroh miaht defeat
them ia their dutnclt.
"The church has immense prop
erty holdings in the riiilippiues."
This fat t shows what Rome has been
doing in those islands all these cen
turies. The kind of morality it has
fostered is told in that Senate Doc
ument No. 100 of some yeais ago
which reveals the gross immorality
of the friars. The kind of educa
tion it hn promoted was shown by
the condition of the natives when
our own government began its work
of public education. It has been busy
accumulating these "immense prop
erty holdings" WHICH ITS
SERVANTS IX THE CON
GRESS OF THE UNITED
STATES ARE NOW SO BUSILY
SCHEMING TO HOLD.
Note how these managers also
hold the fear vf defeat oxer con
gressmen from districts uherr there
is a papist vote sufficient to threaten
them nith. IS HOME IX POLI
TICS f Most a-suredly; and in
biisiiiers, too. lis agents have been
driving a profitable lnwiness in the
Philippines as proved by these
same "property holdings." They
carried on another profitable busi
ness in Mexico until their graft l-e-came
so intolerable that the people
rose in revolt.
Rome wishes the United flutes
to stay in the Philippines for the
same reason that its manage! wish
the United States to intervene in
Mexico. These thrifty collectors of
"immense" properties wish Uncle
Sara to hold the Mexican and the
Filipino while they plunder .hem
Ihey are business men who k'mw
their business. Thev have influence
in this country where the people are
fuddled with religions pretenses,
and politicians can he whipped into
line hv the methods alluded to in
what we have quoted.
How long is it going to t.ike for
honest citizens of this republic to
learn, with Rome teaching the
needed lessons so openlv and plair
ly? It does seem that even the
dead would take some note of such
political work tv a bad of conspir
ators even when they operate under
the gnie of pretended religion.
Fitzgerald Shines Again
In this connection we should not
overlook the special and extraor
dinary part taken by the notorious
papist congressman, John J. Fitz
gerald, of Xew York, in denying
the home rule to th,e Filipinos that
he and his kind have so loner pre
tended to desire for the Irish.
After the House had defeated as.d
removed Section 34 of the Philip
pine bill (the section providing f.r
independence) it then passed the
bill with other amendments; and
we find the follow ing on pago 8182
of the Congressional Record:
Ma. rrrtotjuut: Mr. Speaker, I move
that the House insist upon ita amend
ments and ask for a conference on the
disagreeing votes of the two Houses
thereon.
- Xa BrxiJna
Tke (Mttoe Is ei
the asotlew af Ue faO naa fross New I
lorfc Uat Ue House lasirt Sloe, KJ
einienta u4 ask for a coaferesjee. I
The BSOttO was af ns4 la.
ifa. rmr9taLi Sir. "r-wtsr. I offer
lb fsUesnsf actios InMrort tke con
fereee, which I H4 e the oeak u4
to have read.
The elerk rsni a foDowei
Mr. Buimil ate f!Wtf
-The tfe m Mm m af IW
mm mrm iiwim m4 m hx, s 4m.
kniM m n Mm Mtttaa sum.
r ! Mux unit. m vivm vkttfc
rkktlMXM m1I k, !!
Via. rtrfWtBAL: Mr. sipeaker, ea that
I demand the preonus queetioa.
Tat 8rt aatat The ouestioa hi oa or
dering the previooe ojaetioa.
The eneetioa was taken sat oa a
diruuoa (demanded by Ma. Uassxtt)
there wore ayes 181, aoea 149.
So here we have the illuminating
spectacle of a Rorosn Catholic Fiti
gerald administering the final
knockout blow, to a Home Rule bill
such as he and his kind have prac
ticed everything, from Hibernian
oratory to revolt to wrest from the
government of another countrv. We
have the kev to the ineonsifter.cy
when we remember that Home Vn
for Ireland meant Rome Rule fW
Ireland; and that Home Rule for
the Philippine Itlontit meant that
Rome koi. have to get out of the
u'aruis as tht got vut of Mexico.
Everv effort of this Fitzgerald
hss been in behalf of political Ro
manism from the time he intro
duced his hill to muzzle the Amor
ican press to this latest denisl of
Home Rule to the Filipinos. And
the twenty-odd birds of the Catholic
congressional cover are of precise
ly the same feather. THEY ARE
IN COXORESS TO REPRE
SENT ROME ANT) TO MISREP
RESENT EVERYTHING ELSE.
Thert can bt no independence for
any people to long at the power,
that utes its Fittgeralds, Gallivant,
et. al, for tveh purposes, it voted
into power by a solid Roman Cath
olic rote aided by a non-Roman
Catholic vote that has been rendered
innocuous bv rspa! soothing; svrun
administered by Jesuits and Knights
of ( olumbus highly paid lecturers
on "religious prejudice."
KEEP A STRAIGHT RECORD
ST tV. THKO. C. WALISS
1
FRIEND in New Hampshire
sends a postal card article worth
a page of platitudes, lie savs:
"Maryland granted religious
libetv to all for the manifVt
reason that Lord Bal'imore received his
charter from a Protestant king. On th
other hand. Roger vruiiams cstaMihed
religious toleration in Rhode Island from
principle. It is no eredit to a church not
to persecute when It ;a-ked the power."
Our friend could have truthfully S'Uo'1
that a majority of the Maryland colonics
were Protestants atl not Romanists,
hence religious liberty,
This distinction is fine an.l trne to
hiMorv. Rome has alave used the gov
ernment when she wa in th aeeu'len',y,
and toleralrd tien rv iiiut'.t ta d- n
Just now she tolerate", lut with a presi
dent, congress, mil supremo court olie.li
cut to the pope, Pretcntants would lie
niaile to tremble, She intimidates now;
she tnolie, she kidnaps, she murders now
by the hand of the Knights of Columbus.
The Inquisition has already started.
Are you unconcerned Make it impossi
ble, by your vote, for Rome to secure the
ascendency.
Senator Bryan, of Florida
N. P. Bryan, Florida's worst political
mistake, is rapidly qnalifying himself
for the "extinguished "class at the close
of bis terra in In a speech, ap
propriately delivered in the criminal
court room, at Tampa, he launched into
one of those tirades, against the Guar
dians of I.ilierty aad the patriotic move
ment, such as mark the tools of popery.
He is particularly grieved over secret
pnlitirnl societies, 8 far as patriotic
societies are concerned ; but alwmj s speaks
in hchalf of the biggest secret political
society on earth, the so-called Roman
Catholic church.
The Knights of Columbus, who recent
ly tried disfranchise the beet Demo
crats of Florida bv means of a state-
enmmrttee gag rule, do not bother the
senator in the least. It is only those
societies, which oppose papal and priest -
lv meddling -is Americsn politics, that
call down the wrath, of this bandy man
of papal politicians.
The gool people or norma wui, no
doubt, attend to th s gentleman 'a ease
in due time. In the meantime they can
profitably observe aad check up his ef
forts in tienau ox some.
Colorado Awakening
The Colorado Law Enactment aad En.
forcement League, is circulating peti
tions for signatures of legal electors to
initiate an inspection law aa follows:
"To provide for the inspection of all
publie and private hospitals, reformatory
homes, houses of detention, asylums, seo
tarian seminaries, schools and Institu
tions, (except such state institutions
wherein inspection and control are bow
provided by law, l.y the county com
missioners of the dtunty tw which such
institutions are situated, or by the grand
jury thereof, or by a committee ap
pointed by a jadge ef a court of record
noon a petition svraed by twenty legal
electors of the County, or by any elective
state official f Ue state) H uewraoe.
KENTUCKY CONGRESSMAN ON WAR PATH
A Roman Catholic Congressman Makes a Spectacle
son, of Kentucky, Enraged at Criticism of His Juvenile Court
in The Menace-Having His Tirade Printed and Mailed
in Great
On Saturday, 'April 22, Soman
Catholic Representative Ken John-
sou of Kentucky dclivcrtJ on ue
floor of the National I louse of Rep
resentatives a characteristically in
temperate and misleading tirade of
abue against Till Menace be-auM
of criticisms which had b-en pub
lished against the kidnapping ju
venile cturt bill for the Iiitrut of
Columbia, written by priest Kirhy
and others and introduced in con
gress by Johnson himself. The
jrood people of the fourth Kentucky
ditrkt have a right to know the
truth concerning matters contained
in hit intemperate ranting against
The Mt SACK.
Mr. Johnson is now having his
unM'ctnly and misleading it nota
tions printed st the tiowrnuictit
Printing Otlice and carried throu 'h
the mails in vast quantities to c en
part of the country under his frank
ing privilege aud at tne govern
ments cipense long after the bill
has passed the house. He can have
no other incentive for this than to
make a malicious and unfair fight
against The Menace at immense
expense to the American people and
lor his own personal gratification
and that of the papal hierarchy that
he so diligently serves.
The dangerous provisions of
Johnson's juxenile court bill were
first brought to the attention of the
Free Tress Defense League bureau
by patriotic citizens and parents in
the District f Columbia, who know
the utiiKiikuhle conditions obtain
ing under the jurisdiction of the
present juvenile court during Mr.
Johnson's term in congTess. Since
the pending bill greatly enlarges
the powers of the juvenile court,
parents in the District, mindful of
shameless ahues which Rome has
forced into the juvenile court under
the present law. stood in awe at the
prosect of having the powers of
that court so enlarged.
In the year 1912, during the life
of the rJ2nd Congress, of which Mr.
Johnson was a member, the Lu
theran Ministerial Association f
Washington, D. C, adopted the
following resolutions which were
tiled in congress, and which show
something of the work Rome va
then doing in the juvenile court:
Whcriiaa: Tho Juvenile Court of the
District of Columbia, Hon. William H.
DcLacy, judge, in bundling canes coming
before it, frequently orders and requires
yniiug girls to undergo medical enamina
tion with a vrw to M-curmg evidence of
sexual intercourse, hih v-o submit is
unnecessary, subversive to good morals,
and without warrant of law; and
Whereas: Tho said Juvenile Court,
Hon. William It. Del.ary, judge, from
time to time COMMITS 01 ML TO A
RECTARIA.V AND RELIGIOUS IN
STITUTION KNOWN AH THE
"HOUSE OF THE OOoD SHEP
HERD," of this city, which is under ths
management and control of the Roman
Catholic church, which we submit is
without warrant of Isw, and
Whereas: The said Juvenile Court, Hon.
William It. Ielcv, judge, bv judicial
act. HAS DIRECTED THAT CERTAIN
INFANTS COMlNtl WITHIN THE
JURISDICTION OF THE COURT. BE
BAPTIZED INTO THE ROMAN
CATHOLIC FAITH, which we submit is
wrthout warrant of law, and
Whereas: THE SAID JUVENILE
pp'
(VM'BH rtrv TV T I T TIM TT
LACY. JUDOE). HAS 1'KAtTICALLY
R ECO ME UNDER ITS PRESENT
HEAD, A ROMAN tATHOL.li: INSTI
TUTION. IN THE PERSONNEL OF
- - . -
ITS Or r K fcKB Av t,iiruv i r.r.n,
which we submit, it was not, and is not
the intent of the act establishing ssmI
court; and is not in accordance with tha
letter and spirit of the constitution of
the United States or the laws for the
District of Columbia enacted in pursu
ance thereof, neither ie it for the best
interest of the community; and
Whereas: The term of otlice for which
the said Ju.lze William 1L DcLacy sss
appointed etpires during or about the
month of July, ltuz, it is
Resolve I : By the Lutheran Ministerial
Associatitn of the city of Washington,
that we respectfully and earnestly re
quest the Hon. W ilham Howard Tart, ;
President of the I nited Mate, not to
reappoint the said Judge William H. De
Lacy to said position for another term;
and' that we resectfully and earnestly i
request the United States sensto, should ;
Judge IV Lacy 's name be sent to that
honorable body for confirmation for an.
ether term, that they refuse to confirm I
tueh nnminstUvei and it Is further
Resolved : That the president and
tecreta-y of this Lutheran Ministerial :
Association be directed to place, at the
earliest possible date, a copy of these
resolutions ia the bends of the president,
and to take whatever steps may be aeees
sary to have a copy of the same tntro
6tMed er preseatea em Ue fieer el Ue
Quantities at Public
v CtUUT O, NATIONS)
1 SJItaa ail4ln. M B MnM. J. " -
HtU(1M l- -
United Plates senate, that that body may
racially refer tkem, ia due course, to the
appropriate committee having coseidera
tiua of amea presented to the senate for
confirmation.
Attest: Johs T. Hrww.t.
C. H. Ht Tl.re. 5rcljry. frMWent.
June 1, 191
About the same time facts shovrn
on the record of the juvenile court
were published in Tiir Menmk
and in Watiou's Ma-m:ine showing
the following muni: manv similar
proceedings of that court :
1910. Msv 9. Annie Di.hl. white
PKOTKSTAXT, 13 years of aje.
wlio had been held in the Ilouc of
Intention as a U. S. whim- for
Puli. Court. WAS SUNT HY
TIIK J l" V F.N ILK ('(HUT TO'
th k ' iiorsi; OF TIIK GOOD
SIIKI'IIU-RD."
1910, Nov. 14. Sadie Dean,
white, 13 years of ace. Charged
with incorrigibility. Sent to the
"House of the (lood Shepherd" by
Juvenile court for one tear.
1911, Jan. 14. F.dith Daly,
white, 15 years of age, married.
Charged with incorrigibility by her
husband, Charles II. Daly. Sen
tenced to "House of Good Shep
herd" for two years.
1911, Feb. 10. Marie Rigg.
white, 14 years of age. Charged
with incorrigibility. Ordered by
Juvenile Court to Providence Hos
pital (RC) and sentenced to "House
uf the Good Shepherd."
1912. Jan. 31. FIjORKNTE
WALTON. WHITE. PROTF.S
TANT, 16 YEARS OF AG E.
Charged with being a fugitive from
House of Men v. Committed to
"Ilouse of the (load Shepherd."
1911. Jan. 17. PRIEST GAL
LIEU WAS SENT BY THE JC
YEN ILK COURT TO BAPTIZE
AN' INFANT CHILD OF MRS.
MORTIMER. THEN at the Cnt
tendon Home, and a!n to lok
after the spiritual welfare of Walter
Keller, at the National Training
School 'or bovs.
1911. Sent! 19. Twin infants
were nrotictit into tne juvenile
a . . W
Court and committed under the
name of "Acton," the religious
faith of nhoe parents was uncer
tain. The judire ORDERED MISS
KING, ASSISTANT PROBA
TION OFFICER. TO TAKE
Til EM AT ONCE TO ST. YIN
CENT UK PACE'S ROMAN
CATHOLIC CHURCH AND
II AYE THEM BAPTIZED IN
THAT FAI TH. This she did. act
ing as God-mother. (See Docket
No. 120.to, and note tho change of
name to Ootzcndanner their bap
tismal name on the Docket Sept.
n. 1911.)
It was further shown and pub
lished widely at that lime that the
juvenile court was presided over by
a Roman Catholic judge, and that
its clerk, deputy clerk, bailiff, chief
probation ofliccr, firt assistant pro
bation oftir ami jmitor were all
Roman Catholics.
It was further shown that voun!
J girls nine yetr of nge and upward
t wlicn brougl.t before the juv e
court on hari;es of pettv lareenv
i .
and other childish olTene, were re
quired bv that court to submit to
physical examination a to immoral
relations with men. Horrified by
such reckless and wanton abuse of
judicial power, parents of the Dis
trict cailv became suspicions of the
effort initiated by Mr. Johnson and
his associates to place greatly en
larged power in the hands of the
juvenil court.
At the threshold of the mislead-
in? remarks. Mr. Johnson insists.
Is Mayor Mitchell the Jesuit's
Stalking Horse for Vice-President?
Rome wtnta the vice-presidency. Rome would do much to
eenre that offlce. Signs are not wanting that indicate that the
Jesuits may be preparing to spring Mayor Mitchell of New York
City on the Democratic convention as the candidate for vice,
president, urging that he has just defied Rome. Mr. Mitchell's
recent utterance would serve most admirably to secure this end,
if Mayor Mitchell's record of the past should be forgotten. Watch
politioal Romanism at the St. Louis convention and see if a char
acteristic Jesuit trick is not attempted in the furtherance of the
well-laid plans of the Roman hierarchy.
of Himself Ben John
Expense
as the Roman Catholid crowd al
ways insist, that it is better for
courts to commit children to sec
tarian institutions than to public
institutions provided and conducted,
hv the government for that purpose,
lie declares that forty-four state
authorize their courts to commit
children to su.h sectarian institu
tion. .4 glance at the statute! of
these states discloses very uide di"
vergences letueen the jurenile pro
vision contained in most of them
and tho contained in the John
son bill.
In virtually a'l of those states,
moreover, judges cf the juvenile
courts are . l.vied directly by the
'jw-ople i r wh.c children they are
given juridi. tinn ; whereas, no res
j ident f the Di-tri.'t of Columbia
hii anv voice in the selection of tho
jiiiL'e of the District Juvenile Court.
That functionary. i to bo appointed
by oiTiciaU whom the inhabitants of
the District have no voice in elect
ing. This fact alone divests tht
people in the District of Columbia)
of the political power with which
thoe reading elsewhere can to eat
i.'y defend their rights.
In this connection it should bei
remembered that most residents of .
the District of Columbia depend!
for their living upon modest sal-j
aries earned in the employ of thel
government. This circumstance
enables the petty tyrants that Roma
has placed in so many positions of
power in the government service to
defy inhabitants of the District and
by intimidation prevent them from
even mildly asserting their rights.
The juvenile court bill for the'
District of Columbia at introduced
by Mr. Johnson contained a pro
vision in Section 30 which express
ly einjiowered the judge of that
court to defeat any appeal from his
decisions by making such modifi
cations of his record pending the
appeal as would prevent a hearing
in tha appellat. court. This pro
vision wai eliminated by an amend
ment before the bill left the Ilouse)
of Representatives.
In his wanton and apparently de
liberate disregard of law and truth
ohnson refers to the expressed.
fear that Protectant children will
le incarcerated in Roman Catholic
prisons aril then Mates that no
Protelant child .an 1m- ho com
mitted under this bill. BUT THEY
HAVE BEEN SO COM MITTED
BY THE JUVENILE COURT IN,
THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA
If Mr. Johnson had any regard for'
truth or fr the faithful discharge)
of his duly he .uilit to know this;
beeaiie he w;is h uieinlier of con-j
gress and chairman of the commit
tee on the District of Columbia at
that time. I
He refers to Section of tha
hill as rendering sm h commitment
imMisibb But that section pro
vides only that the court Shall,
SO FAR'AS PRACTICABLE, se
lect as the custodial agency some
individual holding the same relig
ious belief as the parents of such
child, or some institution or asso
ciation governed by persons of like:
religious faith." Any tyro in tha
law knows courts have uniformly,,
declared that such, statutory pro
visions have no binding or manda
tory cfT.t't and are therefore nuga
tory. On May It the Senate Commit
tee on the District of Columbia
granted a publie hearing on this
measure as it finally passed tho
House of Representatives. At that
hearing the CHAMBER OF COM
MERCE of the City of Washington
urged by its able counsel thirty-five
(Continued oa Page t, Colnma 5)
