Say, have yon a furnished or na
furniihed room for rest? Advcr
tkc it in The Sun and let it be
briaging you in something.
We want good reliable
Agents in every city and
town in the country. Write
us for terms.
VOLUME YI1I. NUMBER 40.
KANSAS CITY, MISSOURI, SATURDAY, JUNE 3. !?)!.
PRICE, 6c.
The Low
wn Rascal in Any City is a Dancing Methodist :
est Do
says Billy Sunday
i
$7
TUSKEGEE INSTITUTE'S NEW
PRINCIPAL IS INSTALLED
AT IMPRESSIVE EXERCISES
Governor Henderson, Northern Trustees and Thousands
of Friends of School Witness the Inauguration
of Successor to Booker T. Washington
on Memorable Occasion.
Tuskegee, Ala., Slay 25. Robert
Russa Moton, former Commandant at
Hampton Institute, Virginia, was In
stalled formally as principal of the
Tuskegee formal and Industrial In
stitute today under circumstances par
ticularly Impressive. This being thei
first Installation ot a principal of Tus
kegee Institute, tho interest of the
whole nation both white and black
was foctlsed on Tuskegee. For several
weekB friends of Principal Moton and
old frFends qf the late Dr. Washington
had been sending In letters indicating
their Intention to bo present. For more i
than a week before tho commencement 1
exercises began these visitors started
their pilgrimage to Tuskegee. Special
cars came, not only from Montgomery,
Opeltka and other points in the state,
but also from Chicago, from Virginia
and other points north. I
The Inaugural Exercises in the after-1
noon wero preceded by an imposing
procession. In the line of march were '
Southern and Northern Trustees of the
DEAN VAUGHAN OF WESTERN UNIVERSITY.
As he may be seen early In the morning at his desk at work. In the
recent General Conference at Philadelphia he was Secretary of the Commit
tee on Theological Seminaries, member of the Committee to Standardize the
course of study of all the Theological Seminaries of the A. M. E. Connection;
member of Committee on Social Conditions of the Colored People of the United
States. During General Cnference called down to Baltimore to deliver an
address at Bethel, the finest church in the connection. Next week from his
pen we will have an Interesting article on the General Conference.
Institute, the Principal-elect, Officers
and Teachers, Representatives ot Col
leges and Universities, Visitors, Mem
bers of the Tuskegee Institute Alumni
Association, and the Graduating Class
which followed the Student Body. Be
ginning on the Tuskegee Institute Bat
talion Grounds, the students formed
their line of march, joined in front of
the Carnegie Library by the Faculty,
Trustees, Visitors and Alumni. The
lino then threaded its way down
through the Tuskegee Institute cam-
pus by way ot White Hal, Douglass
Hall, up the hill by Pinehurst and then
In a strolght line to the Chapel.
Booker T. Washington Missed.
In reviewing the line ot march, and
indeed throughout the Commencement
Exercises, for that matter, tho older
teachers present, and those visitors
who frequent Tuskegee could but miss
the presence of Dr. Washington. They
missed his promptness in heading the
line, and his 'presence in carrying
things forvyard. This was not only
noticed particularly on commencement
Sunday, but even before the season
began. It Is a practice of the gradu
ating class to form a line and march
through tho campus, singing "Auld
Lang 'Syne," Many evenings while
they were rehearsing thts song the
thought ot tho absence of him who had
so often presided at Commencement
Season and who enjoyed so m,uch the
Senior Exercises' brought ears to the
eyes ot teachers and students at tho
very thought ot haying tho season
wlthbut him. 'However, as far as carry
ing out tho general program is con
cerned, and' having everything -In its
place and.eyerythlng on tlmo the spirit
ot tho man was still at Tuskegee In
stitute. '
Exercises Have Characteristic Snap.
Front beginning to end the Com'
mencement' Exercises had that snap
1 and go which for twenty yeaf3 have
MONEY TO LOAN
First or Second on
Improved Kansas City. Real Estate-
In Colored District.
. NO DELAY.
AFRO-AMERICAN INVEST. CO.
1510 E. 18th Street.
Phones, Bell East 782
Home East 802.
characterized Commencement at Tus
kegee Institute. The Sermon was
preached last Sunday, by Dr. C. B.
Wilmer, Rector, St. Luke's Episcopal
church, Atlanta, .Ga. The Of fleers of
the Tuskegee Institute have followed
the custom Inaugurated by the late
Principal of the Institute, Dr. Booker
T. Washington, who had this sermon
preached each year by a Southern
white man.
Peculiar Incident.
For the first time in' the history of
the Tuskegee Institute, the two Com
mencement Speakers having the high
est honors were children ot members
of tho Tuskegee Institute Faculty. The
Salutatorian was Clarissa Mao Scott,
daughter of Emmett J. Scott, Secre
tary of the School, and tho Valedic
torian was Charles H. Gobson, Jr., son
of Charles H. Gobson, Sr., Chief Ac
countant of the- Institute.
Inaugural Exercises.
The afternoon exercises on com-
V7 -1
8 ".
. mencement day opened"wIth a general
, demonstration of as many industries
as could be staged on the chapel plat
form. At the blowing of the whistle
, a number of students came on just as
i they go to work 1 every day, wearing
their overalls or work uniforms. At
the sounding of the second whistle all
j set to work. The blacksmith proceed
i ed to shoe a horse, which was also on
: the platform, while the veterinarian
j dressed tho horse's teeth. A young
woman on another part of the, stage
was cooking a meal, another was
washing a waist, another was ironing,
the carpenter was roofing a house,
students from the canning factory
were putting up sweet potatoes, an
other milked a cow, and so" on, repre
senting some twenty odd Industries.
This marked the beginning of the af
ternoon exercises on the one hand
and closed the students' part of the
program, on the other. .After the
singing of the "Anvil Chorus" by the
Institute choir, "the inaugural exer
cises began.
Formal Address Made.
Dr. Hollls Burke Frissell, principal
,ot the Hampton Agricultural and In
dustrial Institute, made the first for
mal address of tho afternoon. Dr.
Frissell has been principal of Hamp
ton Institute since the death of Gen
eral Samuel Chapman , Armstrong, un
der whom both Washington and Mo
ton were trained. Dr. Frissell was a
teacher at Hampton Institute during
the time that both Washington and
Moton wero pupils In that far-fanjed
Institution. He paid" an eloquent tri
bute to the principal-elect, and prop
hesied an administration which should
seek to carry out tho methods whlci)
had been so successfully put In opera
tion by Booker T. Washington.
Dr. H. T. Kealtng, president - ot
Western University, Qulndaro, .Kas.,
spoke on behalf of institutions' for
colored youth. Dr. Kealtng is one
of the most eloquent speakers, of the
Negro race, and he lived up to bis
reputation In the address delivered to
day. Dr. Moton Presented,
The principal-elect was presented
by William G. Willcox, of New York
City, a trustee of the Institute, who
Is president ot the New York board
of education.
Ho was greeted as he rose to speak
with enthusiastic applause which
came from students, teachers anJ the
large number of visitors present, It
seemed really like welcoming an old
friend, because Major Moton Is not
only well known at 'Tuskegee Insti
tute, but has been considered In a way
as a part of tho Tuskegee Instltuto
for many years. Moreover, ho had
been at Tuskegoo Instltuto for tho Itfst
week or so working among both stu
dents and teachers, and those who
had not known him had come to con
sider him as one of the Tuskegee In
stitute big family, and had well adopt
ed him by the time he was Inau
gurated. .
Principal Moton's address was lis
tened to atentively. He pledged him
self to carry out the policies Inaugu
rated by Booker T. Washington, and
spoke in part as follows:
Enthusiastically Greeted.
""While the outlook was never more
hopeful, the negro problem is not yet
solved," said Major oMton. "While
there is a great encouragement in the
fact that 70 per cent of tho Negro pop
ulation can read and write it is not
sato to assume that 70 per cent ot the
Negroes are rSally and truly educated.
Our progress in this country has been
wonderful and" wo have every reason
for rejoicing; but shiftlessness, dis
ease, Inefficiency and crime are entire
ly too prevalent among our people.
Color and conduct still count In this
question, but let us remember that
conduct counts more than color."
Major Moton reminded .his hearers
that in his last talk from tho same
platform Dr. Washington spoke on the
importance and value of teamwork.
"If teamwork was necessary in this
school under the leadership ot Dr.
Washington," he continued, "how much
more imperative it is now that we
have not the help and inspiration of
j his words and presence.
1 Must Maintain Same Spirit.
1 "If wo are to be true to tho great
, and sacred trust, if we are to carry
1 out the alms and purposes of Booker
j T. Washington, we must each cherish
and maintain the spirit which has al
ways permeated the life and work of
this school the spirit of self-forgetful-ness
the spirit of service and sacri
fice the Tuskegee spirit the spirit
of co-operation and consecration, it
I is only in this spirit that tho Tuskegee
j Normal and Industrial Institute can
continue to render service to the Ne
gro, to tho state and to tho nation."
Major Moton was selected to site-
ceed Dr. Washington by a unanimous
I vote ot a special committee ot the
' board of trustess of tho institute in
Now York on December 20 last. In
, making the choice the committee tc-.
ferrod to him as "another forceful per
sonality." He was born in Amelia
county, Virginia, in 1SC7, and spent
his early years on tho Vaughan plan
tation in Prince Edward county. His
mother was cook at the big house and
' his father led the hands on the planta-
. tion. Ho was sent to Hampton Insti
tute In 1SS5, graduating five years la-
j ter. He remained as drill master and
assistant commandant of cadets. In
1 1890 he became commandant, a posi-
i tion which he held until his election
fas principal at Tuskegee.
( Prominent People Present.
; Glancing over the veritable sea of
faces during the exercises, one recog-
'nlzed men of such prominence as: Hon.
Charles Henderson, governor of Ala-
J bama; William G. Willcox, trustee,
, New York; Charles E. Mason, trustee,
Boston; Julius Rosenwald, trustee,
Chicago; Wm. M. Scott, trustee, Phil-
' adelphia; W. W. Campbell, vice chair-
j man, board of trustees, Tuskegee; R.
O. Simpson, trustee, Furman, Ala.;
Bolton Gilreath, trustee, Birmingham;
V. H. Tulane, trustee, Montgomery;
Miss Mary E. Popham, secretary
Hampton Association, New York; Dr.
Hollls B. Frissell, principal Hampton
Industrial and Agricultural Institute,
Hampton, Va.; Miss Mary E. Wooley,
president. Mount Holyoke college,
South Hadley, Mass.; Charles E. Ma
son, Harvard university; Dr. Allison
A. Prlngle, representing University ot
Pittsburg, Pa., and Cox college, Col
lege Park, Ga.; Ludwlg T. Laren, Tal
ladega, Ala., College; Dr. T. W. Palm
er, Alabama Girls' Technical Institute,
Montevallo; Prof. N. B. Young, presi
dent Florida A. and M. college, Talla
hassee; James L. Sibley, Reuben F.
Kolb, Walter F. Walker, secretary to
president of Republic of'Llberia, Mon
rovia, Liberia.
There were at least a hundred prom
inent persons composing the Chica
go party and about the same number
representing Hampton Institute.
Trustees, officers, teachers and stu
dents of the Institute were very much
pleased with tho presence of Govern
or Henderson and tho important
Southern white trlends who were pres
ent at the inaugural. Governor Hen
dorson, -spoke words of welcome to
Principal Moton and pledged the con
tinued Interest of the best white and
colored people In the work being done
at Tuskegee Institute. .
Governor" Indorses Moton.
He said; "Although I had never
met Booker Washington, I had great
confidence and faith In him and I be
lieve that the indorsements Major Mo
ton has brought to Tuskegee that you
will carry nut his same promises and
methods."
Among tho Sun's welcome collors
this week were Wm. Herbert Fields ot
St. Louis, National Grand Master ot A.
S. and D, of A., and a prominent fig
ure in the recent general conference
of tho Zlon church. Hon. A. W. Lloyd,
Grand Chancellor ot the K. pf P., out
on his official visits and Her. Dr. P.
C, Crows ot Columbia, Mo., presiding
elder ot that district, who was attend
ing tho meeting ot the Western Uni
versity board ot trustees.
NATIONAL' NEGRO BUSINESS LEAGUE OUR GUESTS.
In last week's issue somo of the plans of entertainment were explained.
Tho greatest social "event of tho season will be the great banquet and recep
tion to be tendercd.Uho delegates Bnd visitors In Convention Hall. At this
affair the citizens of Greater Kansas City will have the opportunity of meet
ing hundreds of prominent men and women who represent million of dollars.
Thp National Negro Business League is composed ot broad minded, big hearted
men and women who Jiave started nt the bottom and worked their way to
success. They are 'going to travel hundreds' of miles at their own expense,
In order to come to Kansas City for the purpose of telling the Negroes of this
section how they have succeeded In their special lines of business. Many of
them started without capital or experience. They hope to inspire our people
of this city and state to make effort along business and professional lines, i
They wrfnt us to .profit by their mistakes and avoid the pitfalls and unneces- j
sary disadvantages which they have undergone. It will be a great opportunity
for every man, woman and ichlld to go to the daily session and hear the talks
mado by the great mfji and women. Now wo have tried to explain to you '
our plan of entertainment for our guests. The Executive Committee says it i
will take $3,000 to entertain them in a way befitting Kansas City. We want '
every man and woman in Kansas City to take part in entertaining our guests. 1
Subscriptions will be received from $1 to $50. Everyone who subscribes $1 '
pr more will be given a badge whereby they- will be recognized by the dele
gates and visitors as one of the citizens of Kansas City who made it possible '
for them to be so royally entertained. Everyone who subscribes $5 or more
will have their names printed In the Souvenir Program as one of Kansas
City's Boosters. 'If one of our authorized collectors doesn't call on you, just
mall your subscription to J. A. Wilson, 1616 West 9th street, or J. Dallas
Bowser, 2400 Paeeo. ,Our authorized collectors at present are as follows:
Madamo Ida MJJecks, Northeast corner 23d and Michigan.
Mrs. M. C. Mitchell, 2608 Highland.
All solicitors will -have credentials signed by the President and Secretary
of tho League. Beware of canvassers for unauthorized programs, view book
lets or concessions, v'
i NEGRO BUSINESS LEAGUE
A. M. E. CONFERENCE CLOSES.
The report of tho committee on tem
poral economy was themost Important
business before the quadrennial con
ference of tho African M. E. church
Monday. Tho temporal comlmttee rec
ommended that the bishops' salaries
be Increased to cover the cost of epis
copal residences, provided, however,
the bishops lived In 'their districts.
The delegates refused to accept this
recommendation and also refused in
every instance to Increase any appro
priations to schools'. ,
The reportof the episcopal com
mittee recommended making Nova
Scotia a beneficiary" of the missionary
department. The bishops were as
signed for the next four years as fol
lows: First District Bishop Evans Tyree.
Second District Bishop J. Albert
Johnson.
Third District Bishop Cornelius T.
Schaffer.
Fourth District Blsliop Levi J. Cop
pin. r,
Fifth Bishop II. F.j Parks.
Sixth District Bishop Joseph S
Flipper. , i
Seventh District Bishop W. D.
Chappelle.
Eighth District Bishop William H.
Jleard. .. . ixfahtn. -
Ninth District Bishop B. F. Lee.,.'
Tenth District Bishop C. S. Smith.
Eleventh District Bishop John
Hurst.
Twelfth District J. M. Conner.
Fifteenth District Joshua H. Jones.
The two newly elected bishops were
assigned to the work In South and
West Africa. West Africa is known
as the Thirteenth episcopal district,
where Bishop Isaac N. Ross w'ill pre
side. Bishop W. W. Beckett will pre
side over the Fourteenth district, in
South Africa.
Much confusion followed the request
ot Ira T. Bryant of Nashville, Tenn.,
for information in regard to the pun
ishment provided for in the majority
report of the episcopal commlteo on
the charges which were preferred on
the charges which were preferred
against Bishop Jones, and which pro
vided for a reprimand. The bishop
finally said that the reprimand had
been made by the bishops in execu
tive session.
As a result of his losing out In his
fight to be elected supervising archi
tect ot tho denomination, J. A. Lank
ford of Jacksonville, Fla., hurled epi
thets at Bishop John Hurst and J. R
Hawkins, financial secretary of the
denomination. He called the bishop
a scoundrel and Hawkins a cur. When
he told the latter he would fight him,
the latter called his bluff. The men
were about to come together, but cool
er heads intervened.
The anniversary sermon to Lin-
coin High school graduates :md
school will be preached by Rev.
R. Davis ot Centennial M. E.
church at 9:45 Sunday morning,
June 4, in Lincoln High school an-
dltorium. The ministers ot the
city, the alumni, parents and pub-
He are cordially invited to be pres-
ent Special music. The services
begin at 9:45 promptly-and closo
at 10:45.
JUST ONE HOUR.
A KING HIS PUPIL.
Johnson la Now Teaching Boxing In
Spain:
Chicago, May 31. Jack Johnson has
started a boxing academy In Madrid,
according to Information received
from tho ex-champlonby a friend. One
of his pupils Is said to be King Al
fonso. Johnson leftXondbn some time ago
at the 'suggestion of -British authori
ties. He intended to go to Argentina,
but dropped off in Spain. Ho has en
gaged In two bouts in the Spanish
capital, defeating Frank Crozler on
March 10 and knocking out Arthur
Gruhan, Spanish heavy weight cham
pion, two weeks later.
All Lincoln High school graduates
are requested to come to the Lincoln
High school auditorium at 9:45 a. va.
Sunday to hear Uio anniversary ser
mon to graduates.
OF GREATER KANSAS CITY.
REV. WILLIAM H. THOMAS
Pastor of Allen Chapel, will preach Sunday morning and
evening, June 4
Special Music by the Choir
EVERYBODY INVITED
V.ME. CORA MERRITT EVANS.
Soprano soloist who, with Mme. Cbrrlne Bettls Smith, reader, will give a
recital Monday, June 19, at the Sumner High School, Kansas City, Kas.
I'LL TRY. J
When difficulties line his, way.
j I like to hear a fellow say: j
I'll try! j
I Confronted by a task that's new,
I Perhaps a dangerous mission, too, 1
I I like to seo him think It out, ;
Sum up his chonces and reply: i
I'll try!
There's something in the boy or man I
I Who rules himself uron this plan: '
I'll try! I
'Too many sa: "I can't" before
They've ever looked a problem o'er;
j Responsibility they shirk,
And seem to fear unusual work.
I This Is the phrase of do or die,
I'll try! I
i i
1 Would there were more young men to-1
I When duty calls to them, who d say
I'll try!
x Would fear had not so strong a hold '
On mortals, and that more were bold;
Bold in their willingness to face
j The tasks that are not commonplace
, To answer doubt with this reply: '
I I'll try!
Edgar A. Guest in Detroit Free
I Press.
I !
HOME DAY, JUNE 11.
"What kind of a home would
my home be If every member
was just liko me?"
Allen Chapel has adopted the
day and Dr. Wm. H. Thomas,
seeing the great good that could
be done by this day, has made
this day famous In this city.
Our own Prof. Jackson will
give special music for the oc
casion and we all know what
that means to the services at
Allen. We are asking all pas
tors to join in this great day
and give us a splendid sermon
on Home Day, June 11, and hope
at 11 o'clock Sunday, June 11,
that each choir in the city will
be singing "Homo, Sweet
Home." Let everybody wear a
red rose or carnation. The Sun
believes that everybody should
commemorate this day and that
Mrs. A. E. Jenkins, the origi
nator, deserves much credit
for her efforts put forth to make
it a success.
Mrs. Mildred Jett ot 1708 Michigan
avenue, who has been out ot the city
for tho past year, has returned home
for an Indefinite period.
HAIL BILLY SUNDAY.
For the first time in our life
we heard Billy Sunday last
Sunday deliver his famous
"booze" sermon, and to say that
we were hypnotized enthralled
enchanted and reconverted
anew is but feebly telling the
whole truth.
Never in our life have we
ever heard any man, white or
black, living or dead, impress
us as did thts apostle of God
and righteousness, and I only
wish every Negro in Kansas
City could have heard him.
Had ho preached s'uch a won
derful sermon as he did In one
of our churches with us Colored
people's propensity for "shout
ing," they'd been putting in
new seats until yet. God Bless
Billy Sunday. He and Theodore
Roosevelt are the two greatest
and most useful men living today.
SPECIALS FOR TODAY
AND NEXT WEEK AT
,5,
Drug Store
25c Tooth Brushes 15c
25c Nelson's Hair Grower.. 20c
50c Week's Kidney Pills... 45c
25c Penslar Shampoo Paste. 20c
25c Penslar Vanishing Cream
20c
50c Hayes' Hair Health 45c
50c Parker's Hair Balsam... 45c
$1 Plant Juice S5c
$1 Lawn Tennis Rackets. . ,S5c
Mercollzed Wax 69c
White's Specific Face Cream 25c
Madame Walker Grower. .. .50c
Madame Walker's Glossine. ,35c
Madame Walker's Shampoo. 50c
Madame Walker's Temple
Grower 35c
Madame Walker's Tetter
Salve 50c
Alda Pomnde 15c
Rozol 25c
Milson's Hair Grower 25c
Straightening Combs.
Pocket Knives.
Eyo Glasses. i
Clocks.
Watches.
Manicure Sets.
Specials at our Soda Fountain.
Pussy Foot sundaes.
Tango Sundae on a blazer.
All sodas 5 cents a glass.
Loose-Wiles Chocolates on Ice.
All Leading Negro Newspapers
for Sale at Smith's.
Kansas City Sun.
Freeman.
N. Y. Age.
Chicago Defender.
Boston Guardian.
Dallas Express.
Tbpeka Plalnder.
Kansas Elevator.
The Crisis.
Special for restaurants and
boarding houses, 1,000 white
glazed Paper Napkins for 50c.
We carry the Penslar Line.
If you call on your best girl and
find her with tho blues, suggest
a Pussyfoot Sundae or a nico
box of fresh ice cooled Choco
lates under our electric fan and
note the change.
Smith's Drug Store
Home Phone Main 5467.
Bell Phone Grand 4591.
Mail orders filled.
FAREWELL 10 K!l
A WONDERFUL ADDRESS
On Friday evening, May 20, in the
spacious auditorium ot the Kansas
City, Kas., High school, the most
touching tribute ot appreciation and
esteem was paid Prof, John M. Marl
quess, the retiring principal of Sum
ner High school, by the citizens o't
our proud metropolis.
Packed to Its utmost to witness tho
i commencement exercises of the larg-
est graduating class in the career ot
Sumner, and the last under Prof. Mar-
quess' skillful management, the occa
i slon was truly adapted to and fitting
ly seleced for the demonstration of
confidence and of high estimation of
this brilliant scholar and educator,
who in tho eight years pf living in our
midst endeared himself to the entlro
community and proved himBelf wor-
thy of the highest honors in the gift
of the citizenship; w"ho during this
same period as principal of Sumner
High school, brought It out ot the un
promising and unsavory connections
of its origin to a position of respecta
bility and of fame in the educational
system of our city and community,
and through whose supervision and
government It has won a name and a
place of honor among the Institutions
of learning In our state and in the na
tion. More than 2,000 of the citizens
mothers seriously Interested in the
welfare of their sons and daughters;
fathers jealous ot the sanctity of their
children's rights, opportunities and
honor patrons animated with pride
In the race's endeavor nnd achieve
ments were present to hear the fare
well address of their prized educator
and honored member ot the Tace and
to bid him God speed and continued
success in his future work.
Past Grand Master of Masons of
Kansas, C. H. Milton Collins, in an
eloquent and forceful address in be
half of the citizens of Kansas City,
Kas., presented Mr. Marquess a large
and beautifully engraved loving cup,
"with, the names of the contributors to
its purchase. But elegant and valu
able a sthls gift was, it was only a
small token of the regard in which
Mr. Marquess is held hero; it was only
a gentle reminder to him that his
years of service in our community
Will ever be cherished as years of use
ulness; It was only an assurance to
him that his goodness to Kansas City,
I Kas., are indelibly Inscribed on thp
memory of an appreciative public.
The occasion will ever be remem-
Jered for It gave renewed evidence
I of the unbounded confidence of the
' entire citizenship of Kansas City, Has.,
in this man of the race, who 4vltli
grace and dignity represented it these
last eight years in the social and civic
life of the community; who with 2eal
and capability championed its cause
I in the councils of the high; who with
1 fidelity and devotion served its inter
! ests towards the appraisement ot tho
j Ideals of true manhood and woman
hood, and of an elevated citizenship
with Its accorded, rights and privl
I leges.
It was an evidence of regreVat the
loss ot the services of this efficient
and honorable man to our educational'
system and civic lite, yet an assur
I ance that we do not begrudge his ad
1 vancement and rise in life, but wish
him even greater success for every
such record among our race is Inspi
ration to its individual members
It was an augur that his fertile
brain and larger soul will be. equal
to the increased responsibilities of
his new field at Langston, and that
like credit will be done our brother
ot Oklahoma by his measuring up to
his greater possibilities ajd higher
honors; as he reflected wbjie laboring
on tho tree soil of Kansas.1
The unexpectedness of this outburst
obviously affected Mr. Marquess, who
in a masterly speech of acceptance,
returned the compliments paid him,
and expressed his gratetulness for the
friendships he has formed here, and
the hearty co-operation received in
his efforts of betterment and uplift.
J. G. N. SOANES.
EJECTED FROM ".WHITE" CAR
Wife of Tuskegee Institute Head Was.
in Pullman In Alabama.
Montgomery, Ala., May 29. Mrs.
Robert B. Moton, wlfo of tho new pres
ident of the Tuskegee Institute, was
ejected from a .Pullman car at Troy,
while on her way back, to Hampton,
Va. She, was accompanied by Blanton
Moton, her brothor-ln-law. Tho couple
secured x-ullman .berths in Montgom
ery, It Is said. Between Montgomery
and Troy tho white passctcrs made
ODjecuons and an officer was called
when the train stopped at Troy. The
train was held up while tho couplo '
were moved to the regular Negro' car
at the front of the train, where tboy
spent the rest of the night.
Major Moton stated today that he
had not heard from his wife or brother,
other than tbt they had arrived in Sa
vannah. Ho said ho has always de
ferred to Southern public opinion la
the matter ot racial relattoMBfy.
1
