jl'M' "i.
The St. Joseph Observer
VOLUME IX.
ST. JOSEPH, MISSOURI, SATURDAY, JUNE 3, 1916
NUMBER 35
A
OF
ON 10 ST. LOUIS
IS IHE SLOGAN
.
T
BECK THE COLONEL IS THE
PURE IN HEART AND MIND
SHOWING
SHAKY PRINCIPLES
E
II
E
EN
M
4
V
Therefore He Should be the Unanimous
' Nominee of the Convention
Next Week
For the Only Reason That He Thinks
So and Feels So and He
. . Knows So
Teddy the Noisy was at Kansas City
Tuesday with his goods and chattels.
He showed some of his wares, but
they were Just samples. He reserved
the big display (or Chicago nest week,
when he will show the full line.
But he really bad to have a new
sample of his goods, so some Idiotic
attache of his aggregation is supposed
to have thrown a knife in his direc
tionbut this little diversion will not
deserve ordinary mention in compari
son with the thrillers that will be pro
vided by him and about him and
through him and in his name in the
national convention, which, if it does
not crown him Imperator, will have to
furnish a mighty good reason for not
so doing.
His Heart Is Pure
When that great concourse of the
faithful convenes, all of the patriots
crvlng out in agony for "anything to
beat Wilson," the colonel's strength
will be as the strength of ten because
his heart Is pure. Self-seeking he has
put from him. Vanity he never knew.
He has enjoyed all the honors the
world has to offer. He asks only to
fce allowed to serve. He asks of the
convention only that it save the coun-
try from the plague of Democratic
shame and disaster. He asks that it
do so in the one way possible by
nominating for president a pure and
noble and brave American, whose poli
cies are exactly right, whose record is
exactly right, and who, if elected, It is j
. . . ,,. , ... .1
proviuenuy aBsureu, win uo exacuy
right. That there is but one living
American who meets exactly this de
scription, and that his name is Theo
dore Roosevelt, the colonel recognizes.
Therefore Theodore Roosevelt must be
nominated. It is not the colonel's
fault. It is the fault of the conven
tion, of the party, of the country, that
has failed to produce, from among its
hundred million citizens, an6ther man
worthy to preside over, protect and
guide the destinies of this mighty re
public. The colonel regets It. He
SOCKED IT TO HADLEY
The Ex-Kansas Governor of Missouri
Is Given a Real Old-Fashloned
Trimming
Little Herby Hadley, the ex-Kansas
governor of Missouri, was given the
trimming of his life when the state
delegation, of which our own Ralph
O. Stauber was a member, met at St.
Louis Monday to arrange matters for
the coming Chicago gop convention.
Herby wanted to be in fact, he had
set his cap for the place chairman
of the Missouri delegation at the
Chicago convention. But he did not
get within the also-ran class when the
delegates who "were, wise to him"
met. After he bad been so absolutely
smothered that only" an ear trumpet
would bring his whispers to the au
dible proportion, he told bow It hap
pened this way:
"I consented to the use of my name
only because my friends thought I
might in that way help to defeat the
control of the delegation by E. L.
Morse. I had the voluntary assurance
of support from a majority of the
delegation against Henwood, Morse's
original candidate, and this fact doubt
less caused his withdrawal and the
substitution of Stlfel.
"It is, of course, of no Importance
who holds tho committee assignment,
but it Is of Importance as to what In
fluences and methods control the
party organization.
"I do not believe this vote indicates
In any way the sentiment of the dele
gation on president, and whether tho
MorBC-Babler-Howe-Stlfel combination
shall further extend its control of
party affairs will be a question for the
Republican voters to decide in the
August primaries."
wishes in his heart of hearts there
were another worthy man. He yearns
lor peace and retirement and dolce far
nlente. But there Is a great occasion
at hand that calls for brave deeds, for
"bomethlng of the heroic," and he 11
(he only hero in sight. Not through
personal ambition, therefore, but be
cause he is in the fell clutch of cir
cumstance, he is obliged to Insist upon
lils own nomination. It must be ten
dered by a party of which he is not
even nominally a member and which
only four years ago he banished from
every state in the union but two, com
pelling it to fly for its life to the wild
fastnesses of Utah and Vermont!
The Colonel Will Sing
The convention doesn't want to do
it, like the maid in the rag-time ditty,
but the colonel proposes to teach It
to sing "you made me do it" if he can
and as a song-master he acknowl
edges no equals. He is buoyantly
confident he can teach even Barnes
and Penrose to sing It.
The unsophisticated and the un
taught and unwary profess to think
it's all oer but the shouting that the
convention will spank the colonel and
send him home, conferring at tho
same time the crown upon Charles
Evans Hughes, the Great Unknown.
It may be so. But spank the colonel
when they want to win! Spank him
when they can't win without him and
know it when they can't even win
with him, only they don't know it
comrades and fellow citizens, don't,
for Mike's sake, be too sure of that!
The colonel has the whip hand. He
has the Inside track. He has "some
thing of the heroic" sizzling inside
him. He has a giant's power and
deems it not the least tyrannous to
use It like a giant. And he stands
opposed to nothing more formidable
than a thousand or so Republican del
egates, Gulliver among the Lillputlans.
Don't again we pray of you, don't ac
cept the colonel's defeat as a foregone
conclusion.
Poor Herby he Is to be pitied in
his humiliation and his despair. He
was once a gop idol but now he
is
"KIOWA JIM" IS DEAD
A Former Famous Newspaper Man of
This Section Answers to
the Last Roll Call
A brief message from the National
Military Home at Fort Leavenworth
brings the tidings that James H.
Dyer, an Inmate of that institution, is
dead. The news of his passing will
recall to the minds of all old news
paper men all over this section, many
memories of one who was an old-time
printer and publisher, who was fa
mous over this section in an earlier
day.
Dyer was an old soldier. Prior to
the war he operated papers at Savan
nah and Maryvllle. ' After the war,
through Its entire course of which he
was a brave and loyal soldier, he re
turned to this section and again re
sumed the printing business, conduct
ing papers at Barnard, Fillmore and
Forest City. When he became too in
firm to longer "stick type" or push
tho pencil, he retired to the Old Sol
diers' Home where bo spent bis last
years. He was a writer or more than
ordinary note and with a style pecu
liarly his own. After the war and
prior to his return to newspaperdom
he, with bis regiment, was sent out
west to put down the Indian upris
ings, and on account of a notable feat
he accomplished while in that cam
paign, he was dubbed "Kiowa Jim."
Under that pseudonym he wrote many
highly interesting magazine and news
paper stories.
WHY DID HE HIDE AT SAN
JUAN?
"I ask that we in this genera-
tlon prove ourselves the spiritual
heirs both of the men who wore
the blue and the men who wore
the gray. I speak to, and on be-
half of a nation of freemen. Free-
men, fit to be freemen, do not
have to hire other men to do
their fighting. No nation is really
great, no race is entitled to a
permanent position of leadership
or of equality on this earth, un-
less its sons are willing to die at
need for great ideals. In the long
run the country MUST be worth
living In if It Is to be worth dying
for."
This Teddy bawled at Kansas
City, Tuesday. If he is so anx-
lous to die for his country, why
did he hide behind the colored
troops at San Juan Hill?
THE REPUBLICAN
PLATFORM
One That Will Suit the Party of Good
to the Least
Number
The fixers of the grand old party
are busily at work trying to get up a
platform with which to go before the
people next November. For the bene
fit of the already tired workers hen;
are a few suggestions:
I Wo favor Immediate repeal of the
federal reserve act and the substitu
tion of a central bank controlled by
Standard Oil.
I We demand prompt removal of the
income tax from the statute books and
the restoration of a system of taxa-
, tlon which relieves the rich of, and
' places upon the poor, the heavy cost
of government.
We insist upon early elimination
of the federal trade commission, so
that the great trusts may resume the
practice of unfair and cut-throat coin
petition without let or hindrance.
I We hereby declare for the enact
ment of a drastic law prohibiting any
public mention of the great measures
for the development of agriculture, of
commerce and industry put itx force
under Democratic administration, be
cause discussion of these matters
tends to make votes for Woodrow "Wil
son. We point with sorrow and sinking
hearts to the unprecedented prosper
ity of the United States and we here
by solemnly swear that not one nickel
of it is attributable to Democratic ad
ministration, but that our good for
tune is entirely and wholly due to the
eclipse of the moon last July, or some
thing like that.
We urge Immediate annexation of
the Hearst ranch.
We love ourselves more than oUr
neighbors and propose to do unto the
common people Just as Mark Hanna
did unto them, only more so, etc.
ANOTHER PROS
PERITY ITEM
Col. Ed M. Harber, Collector for the
St. Joseph District, Shows a
Heavy Gain
Figures compiled by E. M. Harber,
collector of Internal revenue, show an
increase oi 30 to 40 per cent over last
year In corporation and Individual
Income taxes.
j The corporation assessments for
nine months ending y rch 31 were
$477,750; for the corresponding period
last year they were $309,100. For the
same period this year the individual
Income tax assessments were $341,
918,99; for the same nine months last
year they were $253,686. The com
bined income and corporation tax as
sessments for the period last year
were $562,810, and this year the total
is $819,680, a gain of $256,870.
"I attribute the increase," 'said
Col. Harber, "to the prosperous condi
tion of the Kansas City district. I am
satisfied the Income tax returns are a
true index to the business conditions
of the country. We appreciate the
promptness In payments this year."
MRS. BELDEN AS AN OBSERVER
Forecaster W. S. Belden of the St.
. Joseph weather bureau has Just Issued
a neat brochure entitled "The Climate
of Brown County, Kansas,' which is a
most Interesting document. It Is dedi
cated to his mother, Jennie Cathell
. Belden, who died at her home at Hor-
ton, Kans., July 24, 1915. For nearly
twenty-five years she had been a co
operative observer of the United
States weather bureau for Brown
county, and did most efficient service.
Sho took great pride in the work, and
tho resume of It as made by her son
shows that it was most efficient.
Mrs. Alexander Brown Day enter
tained Informally Tuesday in honor of
Miss Anna Louise Kemper, a June
bride-elect, and her bridal party.
What a Vigorous Enforcement
of the Law Has Made
Perfectly Clear
INCOME TAX WILL SHOW
GREAT INCREASE
At Least $25,000,000 More Will Be Se
cured Thl Year Than Wat Ex
pected, Which Discloses the Fact
that Under Democratic Admlnlstra.
tlon the Country Is More Prosperous
Than It Has Ever Been In the His
tory of This Great Nation
More definite compilations of the in
come tax assessments than was pos
sible to present two weeks ago now
indicate that the total collections for the Anti-Saloon League, headed, "A
the fiscal year may exceed 1120,000,-(Shaky Principle."
000. IfZi recent study of the returns "The Anti-Saloon League is an or
by experts of the income tax division ' ganizatlon which has been supported
of the treasury department has dls-1 by ministers and church people cen-
closed an even greater volume of pros
perous business than the government
officials had expected to find.
Even then it was clear that the total political battles. Its future depends
collections would be at least $25,000,- on the continuity of Its hold on this
000 in excess of the $85,000,000 mark, constituency. And this continuity de
at which the Income tax yield had pends in the final test on the fun
been estimated at the outset of the damental principles upon which the
year Now it is clear to Secretar of 'league bases Its action,
the Treasury McAdoo and his asso-l One Very Shaky Principle
clatts that the total excess revenue I "It is building upon at least one
over the estimates will be at least very shaky principle in Missouri Just
$:55,Oift,000, and possibly $5,000,000 1 now. Its headquarters committee de
more
"The enormous increase Is due to
two causes,' said Secretary McAdoo.
"First, the great prosperity of the
country, and, secondly, the vigorous
enforcement of the income tax law."
Law Vigorously Enforced
In this connection it should be ex-
plained that by direction of Secretary referendum proMsion of the const!
McAdoo, Commissioner of Internal jtution.
IVftnue William H. Osborn has pur-1 "Pf course. the Ipase is wholly
sued a mosrVicorouTnolicy in theithln Its technical rights In address-
pnfnmpmpnt of thp inrome tax law in
the past year. Not only has all of the ! candidate whom for any reason it de
available energy of the office experts sirea t0 bother, harass or defeat; that
at the treasury department been em- is not the asPect of the question which
ployed in a careful ln estimation of concerns us: that is the ordinary pro
the income tax returns and a study cedure of personal politics. The thing
of other avenues of Information, but.we are interested In, the thing which
special agents of the revenue service ! ought to Interest every minister, every
have been engaged In field work, with member of a Christian church and
a view of ascertaining if the govern-1 every citizen of Missouri who cares a
ment had been deDrived of any Income1 copper about the morals of politics, is
tnv rovnm.n rniiprtthlo nnrfpr thp law.
As a result of this policy, $8,700,000
already has been paid into the treas
ury during the present year.
Figures Are Conservative
In an analysis of the income tax
prospects, in which he limits himself
conservatively to a discussion or mini-
mum quantities instead of maximum,
Secretary McAdoo. says
"Exclusive of $8,000,000 collected I?
July, 1915, the Internal revenue bu-
reau has assessed during the current
fiscal ear $113,000,000. This includes
$52,127,604.05 corporation income taxi
and $61,048,324.79 Individual income i
tax, a total of $113,17o,928.84. If 10
per cent of this amount is carried
over for payment during the first ten
days of the next fiscal year, the col
lection of the balance by the govern-
ment during this year, together with
the $8,000,000 paid in July, 1915, will
amount to $110,000,000, while only six
months ago it was estimated that the
collections would be only $85,000,000
for the year."
Exceeds Largest Estimate
Government officials declare it is
difficult to realize the extent of the
expansion of business and private in
comes represented by this Increase in
the income tax. It must be remem-J This Is the dreadful day Saturday,
bered that the estimate of $85,000,000 May 27 when the powers that say
for the year's collections was formu-I but know but little. Is "Swat the Roos
lated last September, when the coun-Iter" day. Today many an old bird
try was In the midst of an era of whose clarion crow has awakened the
prosperity which many persons al- drowsy sleeper In early morn will
ready had characterized as unprece-jpass In his checks, suffering because
dented. The estimate of $85,000,000 he Is a rooster and his flock of wives
was based upon prospective contlnu- will never shed a tear. How pro
ance "and expansion of the prosperity phetic the lires:
of which so many signs then were1
perceptible. It provided for the con-1
slderable Increase over the collections'
of the preceding year. The statistical ,
experts of tho bureau who have sought'
to interpret the significance of the
prospective Increases In the income
tax collections are almost at a loss to
estimate even in round numbers the
volume of new business which is rep -
resented In the increases. Several
weeks ago one of the highest experts
(Continued on Page Eight)
The League's Methods Called
Into Serious Question by
St. Louis Republic
WOULD BULLDOZE
THE CANDIDATES
And Would Make It So that the Peo
ple, Who Are the Real Ruler of
Missouri, Will Not Even Have the
Right of Appeal Under the Referen
dum Clause of the Constitution, But
Mutt Accept What the Self-Constl-tuted
Regulators of Public Morals
Would Hand Out to Them
The St. Louis Republic last Satur
day printed the following editorial on
erally throughout the United States
to this fact it owes its strength and
its power to affect the outrome of
clares that It has addressed to a
Democratic candidate for the nomiuv
tion for governor, the question
whether he will, If elected governor,
sign a prohibitory law with the
'peace, health or safetj' clause at
tached, which would prevent its be
ing submitted to the people under the
!"& any question it can frame to any
the fact that the league is attempting
j to secure certain legislation in a way
which will dodge the appeal to the
people.
The People's Only Resort
"The referendum provision was
written into the Missouri constitution
I ,n order t0 make ,t lraposslble f0r
gpecla, interests, of anv sort what
soever t0 talce advantage of a tern.
i;
porary ascendency in the legislature
to fasten on Missouri a law not ap-
proved by the majority of Its elec-
torate. It is our chief bulwark against
boss rule.and machine domination.
our referendum law was obtained
by a great struggle. It was the strug-
, Rie 0f the people against privilege of
open-air government against invisible
government, of democracy against ir
responsible despotism. Does the Anti-
Saloon League want to go on record
as championing a program which can
oniy be realized by a trick which shall
i take away from the people of Missouri
' tne priceless right which the referen
dum conferred upon them the right
of the sovereign people to pass upon
the acts of its own servants?
"No moral question now before Mis
souri is more important than this."
I THIS IS THE DREADFUL DAY
"I had an old rooster,
He crowed In the lot.
The next time he crowed
He crowed In the pot."
Lots of Them Here
The man who pravs, "Give us this
day our dally bread".with a hoe in his
'hand is not very apt to go hungry,
1 His prayer will be answered muoh
sooner than the fellow who prays In
about the Bame way and then tries to
boat his neighbor In a trade. Milan
Standard.
The Nation Famed Monroe
Club Will Assault St. Louis
in Force
AND WILL MAKE ITS
PRESENCE FELT
Over Five Hundred of the Fighting
Sons of St. Joeeph Democracy With
Their Ranks Augmented From the
Loyal Counties of This District Will
Swoop Down on St. Louis and Help
to Swell the Applause When Wood
row Wilson Is Again Made the
Nominee.
At 9 o'clock a. m. on Tuesday, June
13, the "Monroe Club Special" train
will leave here over the Missouri Pa
cific railway, bearing delegations from
northwest Missouri ana St. Joseph
bound for St. Louis where the na
tional Democratic convention will as
semble on June 14-15 and 16, Inclu
sive. It was so decided at an en
thusiastic meeting of the local Demo
crats held at the Monroe club Tues
day evening. President Stigall and
others presented the Idea of the dele
gations from this city, with the north
west Missouri additions, attending the
St. Louis convention via special train,
and the idea was taken up and passed
amidst enthusiastic cheering.
All Northwest Will Join
Prominent Democrats in MaryviJIe,
TarKlo, Rock Port, Oregon, Mound
City, Maitland, Burlington Junction,
Platte City, Savannah, Dearborn and
other points have written the commit
tee in charge that delegations will be
formed ancL-join the local party for
the trip.
The special will be properly deco
rated with bunting, flags and a huge
banner on both sides of the train
from the first car to the observation
end bearing northwest Missouri's fa
mous club's name, "Mur.ioe Club Spe
cial," and the residents along the Mis
souri Pacific right-of-way will long re
member this train as an evidence of
St. Joseph patriotism and spirit.
The special train will be under the
the personal charge of Norwood A
Beach, general agent of the Missouri
Pacific railway here, and "Norrie" has
promised that he will see that right
of way and a pleasurable trip will be
theirs who are fortunate enough to
ride on the special. Furthermore, Mr
Beach has arranged the transportation
end so that excursionists can return
to Kansas Cltj via any Missouri Pa
cific train and exchange tickets for C
G. W. transportation to St. Joseph.
Also, tickets are good for thirty days,
the entire trip to cost $13.04.
Will Go in Style
The special will leave at 9 a. m
Tuesday morning, arriving in St. Lou.s
at 7 p. m., and on arrival In St. Louis
the train will be disbanded.
The Monroe Club has guaranteed
the company one hundred fares, but
from the Indications, a delegation con
sisting of from 500 to 700 persons will
make the trip. Any further informa
tion will be gladly furnished by Presi
dent L, V. Stigall, chairman of the
arrangements committee, or by George
Akers, R. M. Duncan, Thomas Ly
saght, L. C Gabbert, Dr. J. C. Whit
sell, J. W. Boyd or Ben L. Hensley
This special train is the second one
that the Monroe Club has fathered,
and Judging from the success attend
ing the Denver special at the time
the national convention was held In
Denver, the St. Louis train will out
shine the former in good times and
comfort, because a list of splendid
Democrats have signified their Inten
tion of attending the St. Louis con
vention. The Hypocrisy of Hadley
Ex-Governor Hadley contributes an
article to the St. i.ouis Minor ct
"What's the Matter With Missouri?"
We can answer his Inquiry. The only
matter with Missouri is the stain
placed upon her a few years ago when
the voters struck down Billy Cow
herd and elected this pussy-foot, Had
ley, governor. Hadley won the gov
ernorship by deceiving tho Anti-Saloon
League. He made this league think
he was dry, and he made the St.
Louis brewers and the wets generally
think he was wet. Billy Cowherd was
murdered because he was square and
honest. That's what's the matter with
Missouri. Boonvllle Advertiser.
