BARRE DAILY
rm
r
VOL. XX NO. GS.
BARRE, VERMONT, SATURDAY,, JUNE 3, 1916.
TRICE, ONE
4
TH
MES
DESPITE SHOCK
BRITISH HOLD
NORTH SEA
Admiralty Makes That Sig
nificant Statement in. Re
viewing Some of the Inac
curacies in the German
Report of the Great En
gagement Which Took
Place Wednesday
ahipa sunk, but I am unable to aay
whether they were British or German,
"At last the (.Herman fleet withdrew
southward, pursued by the British, while
ae vera! more British warships appeared
coming from the westward. J He ' uer
man fleet was divided into two parts
one of which escaped. The fata of the
other fleet I do not know."
FORT
VAUX
ZEPPELINS PARTICIPATED.
WARSPRITE SAFE
IN HARBOR
The Battleship Marlborough,
c Which the German Report
Said Was Hit by Torpedo,
Is Also in Harbor Only a
Part of the British Fleet
Was Engaged, Says the
Statement
One of Them Was Hit Several Times and
Badly Damaged.
London, June 3. Six Zeppelins partici
pated in the naval engagement off the
coast of Jutland Wednesday, according
to 8 despatch from Copenhagen to The
Daily MaiL One of the dirigibles, the
L-24, was hit several times and badly
damaged, the report says, but she was
able to reach the Schleawig coast after a
narrow escape. Several of her men were
wounded, and all of her supplies had to
be thrown overboard.
A despatch from the same source de
clares it is generally stated in Berlin that
the activity of the German fleet was due
to the energetic demands of Emperor
William to his brother, Admiral Prince
Henry of Prussia, eommander-in-chief of
the navy, and Admiral Von Capelle, mm
ister of the navy, on tho emperor's visit
last week to Wilhelmshaven.
London, June 3. Captain William Hall,
chief of the intelligence division of the
admiralty, authorized the Associated
Press to say to-day that the German re
port of the loss of the Marlborough and
the Warspite in the May 31 engagement
was absolutely untrue. Both the dread
noughts are safe in harbor.
The German report that the entire
British battle fleet was engaged is equal
. ly untrue. A portion of the British fleet
much inferior to the total battle fleet of
the Germans engaged that fleet and drove
it back into harbor. The British control
the North sea. v
When the battle ended Great Britain
had lost the battle cruisers Queen Mary,
Indefatigable and Invincible, the cruisers
Defence, Black Prince and Warrior and
eight torpedo boat do&troyrs,-while the
German battleship Pommern had been
sent to the bottom by a torpedo and the
cruiser Wiesbaden sunk by the British
gun fire. In addition several German tor
pedo craft were missing and the small
cruiser Frauenlob had last been seen bad
ly listed and was believed to have gone
to the bottom. These losses have all been
admitted by Great Britain and Germany.
BRITISH PUBLIC SHOCKED
Over the News Which Told of Serious
British Losses.
London, June 3. After rumors had
been flying about all day that a naval
battle had occurred in the North sea the
British public was given news by the
admiralty last evening that sent a pain
ful shock throughout the country..
The news was flashed out in special
editions of the evening newspapers and
caused greater consternation in the west
of London than had been witnessed on
any previous, occasion since the declara
tion of war. The frankness of the ad
miralty announcement concerning the se
rious nature of the British losses and the
apparently small losses of the Germans
in comparison led to the assumption in
most minds that the British vessels must
have been led into a mine field.
NEXT
Germans Begin to Concen
trate Their Attention on
the Interior Works of the
French Stronghold Next
in Line After Fort Douau
mont on the Road to the
City of Verdun
RUSH G. ESTEE
PERHAPS DROWNED
Son of Ex-Mayor and Mr. J. B. Estee of
Montpelier was Yachting on Lake
Superior When He Dla-'
appeared. '
Rush G. Estee, son of Mr. and Mrs.
James B. Estee of State tpyt, Mont
pelier, and a member of the New York
Stock Exchange, has been missing since
Wednesday night and the police of Du-
luth, Minn., are searching the city and
bay for the young man. Mr, Estee has
been traveling with Kenneth Van Riper
and party on a pleasure yacht on the
Great Lakes, the boat dock4ng Wednes
day evening In the Duluth harbor. He
NAVAL BILL
' TRIUMPHS
Passed by the House with
Only Four Votes in
Opposition
$269,900,000 SET
TTHR ATT TPP ATTTRVQ lnf? 'or banquet, ceremonial session and
I" Uit JLtU r iVl UliriO lhB initiation of candidates. Fotentate
26 CANDIDATES
ENTERED SHRINE;
BANQUET HELD
Imperial Potentate J. Putnam Stevens of
Portland, Me, Was Guest of Honor
at Ceremonial in Montpelier,
Attended By About 600
Members.
With Imperial Potentate J. Putnam
Stevens of Portland, Me., as their guest,
600 members of Mount Sinai temple, No
bles of the Mystic Shrine, gathered in
Montpelier yesterday afternoon and even-
BR00PG LED
"A SUICIDE
George Cozens of Berlin
Was Depressed Over His
Daughter's Absence
SHE LEFT WITH MAN
HE DISAPPROVED OF
Stevens, who is returning home from
Honolulu, Hawaiian islands, where he in
spected a temple, was escorted from the
TLtVJZ m6. Pre8lTib,y Sixty-Nine Warships Are to hotel t0 -1,e VS0? ha" at,8 bI Cozens Went to Barn and
to go ashore, by his friends and has r a procession of Shriners numbering about
.... .. . . .. -T-. , i 11 I' . ... . . . O I nl. 1. TT! . U ! T 1
REPEATED ATTACKS
GAIN DEEP DITCH
But French Claim to Hold
teh Interior Works of the
Trench Which Lies North
of the Main Positions
Attacks to West of Fille
Morte Were Beaten Back
GERMANS ARE ELATED.
At "Victory" Over the "Mightiest" Fleet
of the World.
The British admiralty first announced
the battle in the following statement:
"On the afternoon of Wednesday, May
81, a naval engagement took place off tho
coast of Jutland. The British ships on
which the brunt of the fighting fell were
the battle cruiser fleet and some cruisers
and light cruisers, supported by four fast
battleships. Among these, the losses were
heavy. The German battle fleet, aided
by low visibility, avoided a prolonged ac
tion with our main forces. As" soon as
these appeared on the scene, the enemy
returned to port, although not before re
ceiving severe damage from our battle
frhips. "The battle cruisers Queen Mary, Inde
fatigable and Invincible and the cruisers
Defense and Black Prince were sunk.
The Warrior was disabled and after being
towed for some time had to be abandoned
by her crew. It is also known that the
destroyers Tipperary, Turbulent, For
tune, Sparrow, Hawk and Ardent were
lost, and six others are not yet accounted
for. No British battleships or light
cruisers were sunk.
"The enemy's losses were serious. At
least on battleship cruiser was de-1
Mroyed, and one was severely damaged,
One battleship is reported to have been
sunk by our destroyers. During the
mpht attack, two light cruisers were dis
a bled and probably sunk. The exact
number of enemy destroyers disposed of
during the action cannot be ascertained
with any certaintv, but must have. been
large."
I.ater the British admiralty made the
announcement that the total number of
British destroyers lost in the engage
ment was eight. The statement added
that of thrw German cruisers, either the
JVrflliiiger or Lutzow was blown up, an
other was seen to have been disabled,
and a third to lie seriously damaged.
One German light cruiser and six Ger
man torpedo Ixn't destroyers were sunk,
and at l:it two more light cruisers were
Berlin, via London, June 3. The Ger
man press comments extensively on the
battle in the North sea between the
German and British fleets. Captain Per-
sius. naval expert of the lagnblatt, says
"Our high seaa fleet in open battle and
without any support of coast fortinca
tions gave a victorious battle to the
mightiest fleet in the world. The whole
of Germany thanks the commandcr-in
chief and the commanders of crews. Our
losses were extraordinarily small while
England's were extradorinarily large."
the I ages Zeitung says:
"Our fleet has resisted brilliantlv in
this battlo the greatest which has been
fougiht since the invention of steel
plated armor and our flag lias been
covered with everlasting glory."
Jn the Keichstag Dr. Johannes
Kaempf, president of the chamer, in re
ferring to the battle, said that though
Germany's losses had been heavy those
of Great Britain had been much heavier.
Dr. Kaempf expressed the nation's grati
tude to the navy.
FAVORITE SON CAMP THROB.
GERMAN FLEET WITHDREW
According to Captain of Danish Steamer
Who Saw Battle.
Copenhagen, June 2, via London. .Tune
3. 2.rt a. in. The captain of the Danish
Mcamer Naesborg gives the following ac
count of the c light:
"When the Naesborg was P5 miles west
if Cape Hantholra, a few email British
warships appeared, pursued by the Ger
man Meet. Suddenly the British warships
turned ana steamed westward, violently
heiled. In a few minute a large num
trr of British (dreadnought cruisers ap
j mrl from the north and wet.
"The British then began attacking the
German ship. ht-h were reinforced by
Urr number of ahipe from tho outh
long te et rt of Jutland. A r.-y-lnt
fs'-t commenced. The sky seemed
filed 'th smoke an! the e w in
Hat of uproar. Shell fell armnl my
tatner, H)-.niH cre several miles
war.
"I Hirirg the fvr.t the cannonading M
o TrHtt tiat our rrrw rotild n"t stand!
tr. t ic We ii --! !r war- jettar-iay.
But the Main Fight Seema to Be Be
tween Hughes and T. R. Men.
Chicago, June 3. There were numer
ous conferences between party leaders
yesterday, but so far as could be learned
no agreement on candidates was reached
and there was no development that ac
curately indicated which candidate is
likely to be nominated for president by
the Repulican national convention.
While on the surface the fight appears
to be between Roosevelt and Hughes,
there was a marked increase in activity
at the headquarters of the various "fa
vorite son candidates. Managers of the
Root, Weeks, Burton, Fairbanks and
Sherman booms insist that their candi
dates would remain in the fight until the
end. They declared, after tabulating the
vote, claimed for Roosevelt, that the suc
cessful candidate would either be one of
the "favorite sons" or a dark horse.
The plan of the old organization lead
ers is said to be to try and win first
with Root and if they fail in this effort
to give Burton. Weeks. Fairbanks and
Sherman a trv out in the convention in
the order named. In the event of failing
to put over any of these the plan is to
try ami win with a dark horse, according
to reports in circulation.
Senator Warren G. Hardin? of Ohio,
and Governor MH'ell of Massachusetts,
were mentioned as dark horse possibilities.
Friends of Roosevelt claim he will win
after the formality of givim? the "fa
vorite son" candidate a complimcntary
vote has been disposed of, while Hughes
supporters declared thcircandidate would
be nominajrd early in the proceedings.
After hi all day conference Senator
Penrose said he as still of an orVn
mind with regard to whom he will finally
support for president. Asked if his con
ference with various leaders did not in
dicate to him the drift of sentiment the
senator said:
"I did not put any of them down to
the dot, and I do not know yet hat the
sentiment cf the convention will be.
Most of the delegate you know are eom-u-ig
uninstnirted -. the majority from
tenir!T!Tiia a high class set of men will
arrive fcere with open n-.:--4. It i still
too early to foresee what the convention
wi'l do.
raris, June 3. In the course of repeat
ed and violent attacks last night on Fort
aux on the Verdun front, east of the
Meuse, the Germans penetrated a deep
itch north of the main French position.
The interior of the works, the war office
nnouncement says, is still held by the
French. Except for this gain the Ger
mans were repulsed with heavy losses.
Spirited fighting continued in the Ar
gonne, west of the Verdun sector. Two
German attacks west of Fille Morte were
beaten back.
London, June 3. Again the Germans
have tried, but ineffectually, to breach
the French line near Fort Vans, north
east of Verdun. In fighting, character
ized by Paris as having been of unpre
cedented violence, the Germans threw at
tack after attack against the French line,
but the French guns and machine guns
tore great holes in their ranks and threw
them back. Reinforcing battalions were
caught by the Frenoh guns as they es
sayed to throw themselves into the fray
and were forced to retreat in disorder
northeastward upon Dieppe.
At one point, however, in the sector
of Damloup, east of Fort Vaux, the Ger
mans captured a portion of the village,
the other parts of which are occupied
by the French. To the west of the Meuse
around Hill 304 and Le Mort Homme,
both sides are engaged in heavy artil
lery duels.
On the Russian front the Germans
against have brought the Ikskull bridge
head under bombardment and at several
other points along the line are using
their big guns against the Russians. An
infantry attack near New Zelbourg was
put down by the Russians. .'
Rome reports desperate fighting be
tween the Austrians and Italians be
tween t,he Adige and Brenta rivers.;
Along the 1'ostna ana souinwest ot Ar
siero Austrian attacks were repulsed
with heavy casualties. Bombardments
predominate along the greater part of
this remainder of the front.
Constantinople says the Russian center
in the Caucasus region haa been forced to
retire twenty' kilometres In tha face o
Turkish attacks and that the Turks re
pulsed a surprise attack on the Turkish
left line.
failed to return or make known hi
whereabouts since that time.
Mr. Estee was born in Wisconsin and
as his parents came east about the time
he entered college he has not resided
in Montpelier for any . dV-Anite period.
He was graduated from Columbia col-
Be Constructed ; Also
130 Airships
Shot Himself in Head
with a Rifle
2(10, headed by the Shrine band, W. J.
fyndull, director, and the Arab patrol in
their drill uniforms.
The imperial potentate gave a highly
interesting address to the diners and was
accorded a hearty reception. He is the
first New England Shriner to be elected
to the oftiee in 47 years and has estiab-
lirthpit A. riv-nrif inr ihtk mitnKtr fit non.
tions made. He. is an honorary member vesterday with yng Ina" f wh"m he
Brooding over the disappearance of his
daughter, who ran away three weeks ago
Washintrton. Ti. C... .Tune 3. The second
lege in 19U8 and for three-years has been I ., , .
a member of the Stock Ln, lie Pf tho bl8 Preparedness measures, a na
is 30 vears old. The dispatches telling vaI appropriation bill larger by many
of the fears are as follows: .. Imillions than any ever before considered of Mount Sinai temple. (did not approve, George Cozens, a well
Duluth, Minn., June 3. -The waters of in Conm-eas. r,assed the House late ves- The banquet was followed by the cere- to'do farmer residing in Berlin, near tha
Duluth harbor are behig dragged for the t d j fc ,)n(lnimougly, lt carrie, a montal session in the city hall audito- Berlin-Montpelicr line, committed suicide
body of Rush G. Kstee, member of the , J , , ' , . num. a concert being given by the band ,,..,,, . ,
Vow York KWlr Fuchatioe tmV-irx for building program for next year of five aa oa candidates were Initiated. Tl.ev alK)ufc 4:30 clock yesterday, afternoon
two nuva from the vsi ht Rjimhw n battle cruisers, four scout cruisers, 10 de- WPr Frank R. Pitkin. Orville Nf Kew nn'rl by shootinsr himself in the head with a.
which he had been the guest of Kenneth atroyers, 50. submarines and -130 aero- H. jr. Farnham, Montpelier; Nelson rifle. The act was committed in the barn
B. Van Riper of New York. pianes, provides lor a goverumenv rm ,,r Phelps, Barre; Bernard Jacobs. William aml j.e diwl wl(hin . ,;,. aUar
The belief that he was drowned is plt. authorise, an increase of nearly Ufccitin. Lancaster, X. II. j Philip A. f j, , .V' t V minutes after
based on the finding of an empty canoe a enusieu men mm apprupi . - Fletcher, Oscar K. Keck and Charles U " '., "' "y"
mile from the yacht. He had left the total of $269,000,000. . Harphan, St. Johnsbury; F. J. Hendee, J tl,ose the farm buddings. He
yacht in this canoe Wednesday night, A PJ. " " uosianuany Burlington, Milton S. Bostwick, C. H. " P"u-n- ever aince nis
and it was found at 5 o'clock Thursday the same form as framed by the naval foU, fit. Albans, Norman H. Fletcher, "V home three wfek a8fl- nd
morning. -- ramounix, vmj i" niuruunKmu nnaport; Harry uicKcne, Orleans; Mar-1- . J - -"
Mr. Estee had been invited to join the ere aaopieu during uKU, tin js. wyman, jr., Guysviile; U C. r """' ...
.i,i,. k.,... i.:. 4.: j. I and a final effort bv Republican leaders I t;,,l,i;n wntv. it r k;cv, Mr. Cozens was 47 years old and was
thoucht that he needed a vacation. Some to have the measure recommitted with Lvndonville: H. Lee Hatch. Randolph: horn -Norfolk. England, coming to
of them said that his disappearance must instructions to add two battleships, two Robert W. Tabor, Christie B. Crowell, Montpelier about thirty years ago. For
have been caused bv an attack of mental BC0t cruisers, and 10 destroyers was Iirattleboroj Walter h. Martin. Walter many years he lived with E. W. Bugbee
aberration due to overwork. He had not b,,ten JS t0 1W3- lhe "Knt Ior " ln" W. Russell, Springfield: Frank W. Ken- ,u -,"'lP " ana anoui 10 years ago
rested from business In eight years. crease In the building program at least Mant Bellows Falls; William A. Winsor, Pura;ea rae,uu,er tJr.k farm m Her-
The broker, who is 30 years old, went I v l,lc nuuiviun ui imLbitrBiitpa wiu w i rorc ttnan Alien; Alex j. mltn ana .v . . " c.
o a bui irru VJf jus wile Bllll lllftrO
children, Elizabeth and George and Flor
ence, and one brother in England. The
funeral arrangements had not been com
piled tins forenoon.
Mr. Cozens had many friends in Berlin
and Montpelier; was a naturalized citi
zen and owned one of the finest farms in
out alone in the canoe In the afternoon, renewed in the Senate when the measure I William McDonald, South Ryegate,
He did not return and tho party aboard "P lnrr l",B
the Rambler had dinner without him. lie- administration leaders believe it will be
lievinir that he would be found on some I succosstul
other yacht near br. Thev were an- Only four representatives voted against
chored off the Duluth Yacht club. Iater P""WRe of the bill to 358 favoring lt,
in the evenintr when he did not return, and as the roll-call progressed the over
they visited the yachts In the harbor, but whelming majority of 'ayes" stirred the
no one had seen him. A search of the Democrats to repeated cheering. The four
bay all night revealed nothing. One of negative votes were cast by Represents
the searching parties came across the tives Browning, New Jersey, and Graham,
THE SCHOOL'S MISSION.
As Related by Vermont's New Superin
tendent of Education.
Rutland ,June 3 That there is need of that nart of TWlin
a system wnere ine ecnooi can in a meas-1 i
tire, control the home, the farm, the shon.
it. u -j.. Tf)P f)r HFAT1 PI.nWN ilFir
. ...... I . , t. ,,- i ,, . i ii.ni? iiiiiiuti n i i ii o nitrt'k. nitfijiiiv. run-i -- -
empty canoe at 5 oc lock in the morn ne. r ennsy vania, nepuoucans; nannau, i.ai- ,, , ,, -
rin I i,jr unwu uli a in uio iiiuiiiing. j L;V:i:l:.i j j v cationallv and conversationally, was a
xnev immeaiaieiy nounea tne ponce. inuiiun., i mmuuiiiuuibi., u wiu, .,. t,- . j u m;i tj if:i
New York, June 3. It was learned at York, Socialist
ixew lurs, iiune o. 11 was learned ai I iri.i:.. .. ri
ic. v.'... - .... wttu ... r u- u.n tr.- Montpelier, state commissioner of edu
..nei-eKarvappa.r.psiK.niraierniT.ynouse, u ,r v. w,v- um, ..yu .. - . .rir,rpBa(H -,,.t M l,nol
point emphasized by Milo B. liillegas of Ashley E. Dodge of Johnson Used Shot-
111 iO H ' .. 1 iiBjL .1...1 iL.l n 1 i LmMnlal CKn milnv .. ', . . ( il a akara
was a member of the fraternity and made in the preparedness program. Of the f . . E. Dodge, about 45 years old, w as found
it.. ..i i .i kiii. i 4 4. j nual meeting of the Rutland county of- ,., . .. , ' . ...... '.,. . .
gun on Self.
Johnson, June 3. The body of Ashley
his home at the chapter house there. He three bills carrying the important provi- J VY,., ' Jl'r TZi.r;' yesterday at his home with the top of
was a bachelor. About 10 days ago he sions of the program the army, naval """"Lv head blown off apparently with a
vrro m ik. 1. rv. . a. J aL. t inl,:u - ' rA Ana itl a moa aiiraa onlir
yachting trip. last-named remains to be considered. It u ..u., yr,
- . . i ... ... ... . .. i Til u'liftT. Ida wisn inn rnn vrrvn i i in
up in tli HoiiBe . .. ,V , .
. I aai'Viiuf inti An irm 1 inns anri in
HIV I i . . - . .
u , snotgixn. ivir. iodge is survivedabv ni
--4 wife and one child, one brother. Frank
iio wa iieaa vi vnm zrw lorn, pwck i mjvihiuit win u mi:u ui in ujr uouw i . .1 , j 41.. U'uukb in utuinBun, unu iwo BisirB, .urs.
Exchange firm of R. G. Estee A Co. of 62 after the national conventions, while the " - '"rm" J", . "! E. E. Holmes of Johnson and Mrs. Har-
Broadway. He waa giaAated from Co- Senate is debating the naval bill. """" 1 1Z T McCIenatfhan of Arlington. Tho
lumbia several years ago. and admitted Other provisions added during debate """'."""V 'e .. body was found by Wiufred Davis, a
to membership in the Mock Exchange in carry fii,uoo,!HK for a government ar- 7, ' ., - neighbor.
. 15 . I . . . . ... - . If he pnni lift nf iha hi-iva anH cirla of the I
15)13. Ior a Tear he w
is board member mor plate plant, 57,imh),(MH) for enlarge- " " " "
Elliott & Co. of 27 merit of the nary yards at Boston, Phil- l Ppr.y Kve...
of the firm of" Gilbert
Pine street. He wae a member of Oolum- adelphia, Norfolk, Charleston, New Or-
bia university and Greenwich Country leans and Puget sound, where battleships
GUILTY IN TEN COUNTS.
DESPERATE FIGHT
FOR MONT CONGO,
HELD BY ITALY
Official Statement at Rome Says the Aus
trians Are Making Incessant and
Vigorous Infantry Attacks.
Rome, via London, June 3. An official
announcement from the Italian war of'
flee, published to-day, says:
"An intense and desperate struggle is
taking place along our positions south of
the Assa valley as far as Asiago. Our
troops are still masters of the lower
plateau of Mont Congo, where they are
resisting vigorous and incessant infantry
attacks, supported by a bombardment of
extreme violence.
AUSTRIANS CLAIM SUCCESS.
Advance into Italy Is Continuing Un
checked, Says Vienna.
Berlin, via wireless. June 3. The Aus-
tro-Hunparian advance into Italy in
southTn Tyrol ia continuing unchecked.
according to Friday's statement from the
Vienna war oSiee. In the district of Ar
siero, the Austro-Hungsrians have cap
tured several more positions of strategic
importance.
NO PROBATION GIVEN.
Mrs. Louisa Gomes of Montpelier Gets
Six Months' Minimum.
5ir- Julia Newton of Wet T oMbam
smnnj tle bwnrM ritt rs in town
In Montpelier city court to-day Mr.
Louisa domn of that city, who earlier in
the week pleaded guilty to the charge of
keeping liquor illegally, wa sentenced to
serve not less than n months and not
wore than 12 months in the house of
correction at Rutland, after the woman
bad told the court that the was unable to
rT a fine. Her attorney, E. R. Iaivls of
Parr, aVei for prohation for tha wom
an, bvt tie court refueed to aore-lk
clubs.
Member of the board of governors of
the Stock Exchange refused vesterday to
(affirm or deny or comment in any way
upon the report that Lstee had gotten
into difficulty on the exchange over al
leged violations of the rules of the insti
tution. The governors were asked wheth
er or not a hint had been given him to
take an opportunity to sell his member
ship.
Kenneth B. Van Riper, on whose yacht
Estee was a guest, had invited hfm to
accomjMiny htm on the first trial of the
vessel on the Great Lakes. The vucht.
which is about ISO feet in length, was
recently purchased in New York waters
and sent est by way of the St. Law
rence river and the canals. According to
the missing man s friends, his difficulties
with the Stock Exchange authorities af
fected him deeply.
AUTO WENT DOWN BANK.
But Two Adults and Infant Were Not
Much Hurt.
Burlington, June 3 Mr. and Mia. Tm
man Wisell and two-montli-old baby of
179 North Winooski avenue had a nar
row escape Thursday night from what
might have been a serious accident as
they were motoring along the Colchester
road when the front spring broke, put
ting the steering gear out of order and
sending the car down a 16-foot embank
menc.
The Wisells started out shortly aft
er supper Thursday evening for Essex
Junction to obtain an automobile license.
Before going directly there, Mr. Wisell
decided to transact some business with
friend who lived further on. On the
Colchester road several bad holes wore
encountered and in going through one
of tliem the front spring snapped, throw
ing the steering gear out of order so that
Mr. Wisell lost control and the machine
turned to the right and went over the
embankment. At the bottom it stopped
throwing Mr. Wisell against the wheel,
but iniiirin? him only slightly. Mrs.
Wilsell suffered a bruised hip. The child,
however, was uninjured. The machine
was taken to the Ideal garage Friday.
He urged that there be some institu
tion which would pive society nrorter
control of all this and that this institu- Edward C. Flint Secured Opium on
tion be the school. Forged Prescriptions.
n. i.- t .. t . .. 17 ... 1 : 4 .. ... I
V, X. l.'ttllJll VI llli UIIKi'lI, I ... T,,-,. o Tw.. ...... ml 4k.
rultrv nf In urnninr rati luiarn nf I . .
: ,.f ,. , .. .. .. federal prison at Atlanta was the sen-
health, discussed school sanitation. Ho ,.. ; ,,,) ;
L ... ... I 4.IH Iha ahiil man t.hat iha ulinnla ura . . .
t7A.rr.r,..lr.n . . !. . vaAmmMl.il Kt. 1 . - '.v. '- ' ' " U.l,, .Iic4.i..t 1, - .... C T.'.l
1" .'I K,I. j ...1. 'inn, I r..vlllUI.IIUU Kf I,. . . ... . . , lakA U'OlJll, WUIW 111 H1J VI J .11 "
t i 1 1 . . i . : .. .. i . . j : . . .. . i mu . . . .... . . ,.. vu.v ... . .- ....... i i . j . . i i . ,. i .
oi-creiarv jynniri?!, iiiciuajii jihti'ubihk . . . " , , , . , . , iru u rilllk, cimreu wikii Having in nis
the duties and authority of the chief of tfl.wn." nava . ea'i " P!acc(1 j ttlicrt possession, unlawfully, opiums and drugs
operations, are authorized in a measure, 0,e I" 'tion of good roads, good gmired fc fo d preJi:ription,. Xhe
' . , u..;t.i; ., stores and good hotels. Too much de- , . ..." i ... u
will be constructed, $2,700,000 for in
creasing the navy's personnel and $1,500,
000 for aeroplanes. The armor plant pro
vision already has pased the Senate as a
separate bill.
and provision is made for building up a
strong reserve for the enlisted personnel.
jury was out scarcely five minutes. He
1 -1 i tl.. 4 . . .1 t'L. 1
priliirilL-v l luiK.-f.-u on l"c irncuci. oiib fJ -,,il.- T. i.
cannot make good citizens with books . . ,,.'..,.
... I Ut'l tll 111KI. L11IF BtTll LfMlITV. II, T lilt- V111IU
FUNERAL OF E. W. HUNTLEY
alone. Environment counts for a lot and
I thus good school plants are needed.
Called Many Mourners Floral Tributes
Were Beautiful.
MAY INCREASE TAX RATE.
tion of the narcotics law will have wide
spread effect in showing that the gov
ernment is determined to punish offend
ers Judge H. B. Howe presided. United
States District. Attorney V. A. Bullard
of Burlington prosecuted.
Mrs. Florence Flint, Edward Flint's
wife, pleaded guilty to the indictment
against her and threw herself upon the
mercy of the court. Her case was taken
Waterbury, June 3.The funeral of To Make Uo for Shortage in Book Ae
tber w . liuntiey, Known as Judge Hunt- wunt AppraiMls
lev. was held Thursday afternoon, each
of the services being in his native town A shrinkage of nearly JJ40.000 in the
r.f rtiivKurv ahara lio hatt livoH (ir n.iir. I 1 fl 1 ft DTBIwl list IS anticipated BS a result
... ...... v ... i .. . . .l, k... u. ....... 4 I :i :.
Iv 77 vears and was serving his 45th of the law affecting the appraisal 01 " .,V'V l"u,l "uu ,
" ..I.. . 1,1 ii 1 nnihaMa That aha u-ill ha bah 4 s
year as town clerk and treasurer. At bonk accounts, ana tue decrease wm i " "n,,
1:30 o'clock a service was held at his mean a corresponding falling-off of the lnsiuuiion.
lalo l.nm. u h.r. ln rr numlwr nf rl. revennn der ved hv the eitv from the -ur- u,u -,lrs- '""l ere arrested at
tives gathered and where about 00 of the tax rate, which remains to be fixed by ""' -' "v Vpnuly i-"'r
Masonic and Odd Fellows fraternities
FELL NEAR TRACK.
C W. Holland of Rutland Was Seriously
Hurt.
Rutland, June 3.-C. Wesley Holland
f No. 80 Broun street, a conductor on
the Rutland railroad. a quite seriously
though not fatally injure.! in the railroad
ards at Burlington yeaterday, when he
fell between two freight cars to the
round below. He received a severe
scalp wound, bady wreched arm and
boulder, bnned hip and sprained an-
le. He was brought to this city yester
ay morning and taken to hi Vm py
utomobile, here he as attended by
Ir. James M. Himilton, a railroad sur-
on.
The train a moving at the time, hut
the exact caute of Mr. Holland's fall is
ot knewi for be a not aked to dis
cuss the ar-idnt mu h yeter4y, bis
niurim c".mpe!iirtg him to remain au:et.
lim life n fie habiy Mved by an uncon
a. mus movement in kwkinj hiniwlf a ay
from the ra; here he was are to
tae n-ft d'ath.
were in waiting to escort the body of
their friend and brother to the town hall,
where at 2:30 a public service wm held.
At both of these Rev. William L. Boi-
eourt, pastor of the Congregational
hurch. officiated, assisted by Rev. George
E. Iiadd of Woodstock, who was pastor
of the local church at the time of the de
cease 'of Mrs. Huntley.
While the large numbers were enter
ing the hall, "Face to Face" and "Nearer
My God, to Thee" were softly rendered
by .Stanley Duzzell, cornet, and I'r. L. J.
Foster at the organ. During the service
E. G. Miller sang Herbert Johnson's
."Shall I Be Forgotten!" Although it
was the wit-h of the deceased that no
flowers be used and tlmt wish was given
out as far as possible, many were re
ceived.
Completely covering the lower part of
the casket was a blanket of flowers given
by the MUeonic and Ockl lellows organ
izations, having in appropriate colors of
flowers the symbols of the Blue lodge.
Eastern Star chapter, Odd Fellows and
Reliekahs. "A Sheaf of Wheat" and the
arranging of the hall, showed the sym
pathy of Dillingham grange. Durinis the
leaving the hall, funer.il marches were
played by Dr. Foster. The burial ecrvic
wa under Winooski lodge. No. 49. of
which Mr. Huntley had been a memler
54 vears. the ritual work being given by
C. C. Graves, Ir. E. J. Foster acting as
chaplnin.
Among the relatives present from out
of town ere: Mr. and Mr. A. C Hunt
ley and Mr. and Mrs. A. G. Stevens of
B"lton. Mr. and Mr. C. W. Burney and!
Mr. and Mrs. Irving Huntley of Essex j
.function. Mr. and M. Levi Bailey of
Berlin. Sir. and Mrs. Herbert afi ills and
Mr. and Mrs. George Rumney of .Middle-
set. Mr. H. O. Ward. R. S. Ward, Mr.
and Mr. C. W. Ward of Moretown and
Mr. and Mrs. Herbert Ward of Moretown.
Members of the Senate of 190S came, al
number ot me iraiemai aocieties ani
friends of Washington county from nr
the council. Thus far the aldermanic ' internal rieienue r rea niltemore of
finance committee has devoted much of Burlington, after they had secured mor-
ita time to fimirincr wavs and means for pnine and cocaine m Hurlington and
roimn.-hintr in the face" of the defection. nv,ski n forged doctors certificates.
but no recommendation for a tax rate """ arrest, they have been in the
upon which the 1016 budget is to be fig- Chittenden county jail at Burlington,
urcd has been brought before the city n-re mey nave oeen undergoing treat-
col,m,jl mem ior tne. orug naoit. ifiey were
Tt. ni.. from t.h rrand list, it is brought nere by lieputy Lmted States
" ' T . I t I 1 T if . 1 . . a
expected, will be around (K,0(V), which -rsnai peeves on weanesaay.
is ?.).70". or thereaboute, sliort of what
it would have been had book accounts
been taxed. The above estimate, it
said, is made on the basis of a $2.40 tax
rate.
THREE CASES ENTERED.
FUNERAL AT WEST T0PSHAM.
Two General Assumpsit and One Chan
cery in County Court.
The following general assumpsit cases
have been entered m Washington county
That of Miss Louise Sargent Attended "": Barre Savings Bank and Trust
I ..... Af.... X." TJ ..... 1 a at
' Gallani vs. Tictro Cattelli. The follow-
The funeral of Miss Louise. Sargent, ing chancery suit has also been entered:
ho died Monday night, was held from Florence BatchcMer vs. Fred L. Page.
the house at West Topsham Thursday IThe cases are returnable at the Septem-
afternoon at l o clock, Hev. . lv. AleeK tier term.
officiating. There was singing by the
churvh choir. Burial was in the West
Tonhain cemeterv. The licarers were
(.eorge Tillotsnn. Frank Mill, Vernal Cil
lev and Amos .lewett.
Those present from out of town m-
cludnl Mrs. Ali-e Brmighlon and Mr. and
Mrs. Johnson of F.at Randolph, Mrs.
Julia Pcabodv of Brook field. Mr. and Mrs. I
TALK OF THE TOH'N
Chsrlea Rabitoi, who has been visiting 1
in town for a number of davs, returned
to his home in Braintree vcslerdar.
Ian A. Perrv of the P. A. Perrv Real ,
Estate agency, returned from Boston laH !
. I : i: Ij .1
Ernest Young of Clicli-ea, Mr. and Mrs. evening auer spcnuing several oav nirre
Arthur Newball of Middlesex. Mr.. Ann on business.
Wellington and Mm. Emilv Culley of St. rn measures ot repression are to be
The floral tribute was a follows: C.r- " number ot violations wnere me trar-
tistion. Mr. and .Mrs. .. I. Smith; car- i"-"i"h"""- !"mi"ir.n,,r.,.
nations. Mr. and Mrs. Neahall: wreath, '-"t night Chief Sinclair and Officer Da
Mr and Mrs. .lewett: wreath. Mrs. and v'd Henderson attempted to obtain in
Mamie W hite; wil l flowers, Misses Hark formation regarding a couple or suiolm
and Philbriik. jhoe cars were hi?.ing up North Jfain
Mrrrt at a dangerous rate oi speed.
N'timliT plates and other tell tale sp-
IN PROBATE COURT. purt-nim-e of the cars were ot in a
rloiid of dust ki'ked up bv the reemg
It every ton in the county, K,.hn:r.d
xaA Stowe. Member of Ocieen Etber . Mr. Carolina B. Milne and Virg 1 K.
harter. No. 7. of hw h Mr. H'int'ev Ayers have ben appointed adminiti-a-
Aaministrators of Estate of Late Geerre motor cars. A few moments afterward.
B. Milne Appointed. 1 'r
' aienue. the nair of the driers jotted
In Washington county pr"ht court. !.J.,mn in the pol'ce notehook and other
etidTic gathered. It was a'legr-1 that
the tn rir;ver were racing. ITiis morn-
he first patron and of Emerald pebekah!trix and administrator. titnf!r. in . irg Kne!l Al!en. said t W a .ib-
loge. No. 3-1. an I IHuigbaro grange at Oie estate of f;.rg 15. Milm-. lui- ofjagcrt. and Alex A. Milne ere brought
nded in a hodv tiesnde tHe Mason n- and ! P.n. who ii ri in !. nrr, ol'.ra lo I into city court on police ariPt charg
(k;l rHr.m 4j-al arHo liad the sr--e Mr. Carol-ne B. M lnr a appoint ing t'irm i!h crt;ng in a careless and
in trs cemetery. iiard.au for Georp? Eiojund M !c. nr' gi,t nurniT.
A
