ENNINGTO
EVENING
THIRTEENTH YEAR NO . 3800
BENNINGTON, VT. SATURDAY, JUNE 3, 191G,
PRICE ONE CENT
Some Folks on all Ocu'fcns Take Themselves so Very Seriously That Everybody Else Considers Them a Joke Says The Atchison Globe
THE
BANNER
BRITISH LOSE 15 VESSELS, lit,.
9,111 GREATEST BATTLE SINCE
ERA OF ARMORED SHIPS
Over 5600 British Officers and Men Perished In
Fight Off the Sfeaner Rak
Kaiser's High Sea Fleet Caught Smaller Vessels of
the Emmy and Inflicted Great Damage Before
Heavier War Ships Could Take Part in En
gagement Berlin Jubilant German Admiral
Say:
;s England's Boasted
London, Juno 3. Tlie number of
British war ships lost in the bs.Hle off
the Skager Rak is now placed ut 15.
Ono of the ships lost was the destroyer
Shark which was acting as scout for
the British fleet. None of the crew of
the Shark aro reported to have been
saved. Two more destroyers, the Nor
wood and the Nestor, are not known to
be among the lost.
Hear Admiral Horace Hood went
down with his ship, the Invincible.
With the cruiser Defence all were lost
including Admiral Arthbubot.
From reports that are being received
from the scene of the battle it appears
that the German fleet in full number
swooped down upon the smaller ves
sels in the British squadron and in
flicted much damage before the larger
ships reached the scene. The loss of
British officers and men is placed at
more than 5000.
Seven survivors of the German pro
tected cruiser Fraunenlob were res
cued by a British torpedo boat. The
remainder of the crew of 350 perished.
Bodies of dead sailors are reported
floating near the scene of the battle by
neutral ships. Survivors are being
landed at several ports.
Berlin, June 3. England's mastery
of the sea has been broken in the op
inion of Admiral Von Speer. Flags are
flying everywhere in celebration of the
victory. The Kaiser Is hurrying to
Wilmhaven to welcome the return of
the fleet.
London, June 3. As if by a given
signal, the British and German censors
yesterday afternoon simultaneously
lifted the lid which for twenty four
hours, had hidden from the world tne
greatest event of the war. Both in
Berlin and London brief, ronclse ad
miralty statements were released an-
ESTATE OF M. JANE ALDRICH
STATE OF VEUMONT
Dlrtrlut of Kunnlnaton. m.
Court for tho District afotctald
I The Hnnora
I bio Pro ;u e
To tne heim mi I gli per-nni inter Btoi In i he
estate of M. Jaan Aldrlcb, late r,f oodferd
in sa d District, (leu HW J. GltKETIMl :
WHKRKA9. -rinlot.t"ii hh Im'ii mn'0
tbla court in writing, by'Adainlstrntorsprayin '
tor iici'ust auu auiiKMiiv to ohi ..ii oi rmi a ,u
DorsooaJ ertt or inlil deceuwrt, for the pay
ment of debts, charvos of nduiliil-trHttcn, fet
tin forth tbcrtln he amount 01 dohts due from
sain decvtie', the charges of tuin ini t Ht mo.
and theanrountof pertoaul esiuto oad thuBit
untlon ot the real tstate.
WHEKEiri'OX, ti 0ali1 C'Uit np irlntcd and
assign i the !lit. day or June, iai, at the Vru
hau Olllco in Bcnninirton, in aatd District, to
hears .d aeclde upon said appli"Htion and ln-tr
tinn. and ordered pubic notice thereof lo to
(riven to a I persons InieitweJ t ertln, by pub
lishing aaid order, toKether with the time and
place of hearing throe weeks successive y in
the Bennington Evotilutr ham er, a nospper
which cireula'eg In th ntlifliborhoixl of thine
pervons Inurrsted In ra d citato, all of hiuh
pub lefttions s nil lis previous to tue day as-l(in-d
for hearlnii.
THEUKMiKK, ou fro hereby notllled to up
pear botore said Court, at tho lime and place
asilKnod, then and therein said couitto make
jour o jectioui to tne granting of such lie jnao
if jmi e causo.
Hlvenunaermyhnndat Rennlngtoa In laid
District, this flth day ot May nils.
AMY 11, H AIMIOI'K, HoRistor.
COMMISSIONERS' HOTICF..
Estate of MAHCAIIKTT,.
NCOTT,
8COTT.
ELLEN C. oeJui'T, CHARLES U.
Th undersigned, having lieen appointed by
tin HodoimIiIo Probate Court for tho District
of llunnlngton, IHlMMIKHloNKItH, to rernivo,
examine and ml hint the claims nud dnmandgnf
all persons against the ostute or Mnr, arvt I
hoot i, hllm c.. Buuit, Churlcs M, awix,
latoof Ileni.lngtOP, In said District, tiu'e 'd.
and all claims exliltim-u in ntTHi-t tneret
hereby give notice that we "111 meet for tho
nurpobo aforesaid, at the cllinn of Hidden A
Heaiy la the lowu of lhuningtnn, in
ild District, on the 2tth day of August,
aid I'ltn day of Novcutur nut. from ii oVi.m it
p. m. un II 4 o'clock p. m.. em each of wild
days, and that six months irom tho W day
Mar. A. D. lttlC. la the tlnuu limited In- hhkI
(V)Urt for aahl crvd tors to ptvwont their clulma
to us foreia Dilution and allowance
Dated at L'onulngtou tbia Mill day of May,
1 M lll'H '
CHAKF.KS V. POWERS,
H. 11. HUTCH IN
Cjmmlsalonori,
roMyiasiOMR'' notioe.
Estates of 8 JtlAN A.fJItKOIR
FIIANCKMA CAMfHELb, ANDREW CARD
and EMILY II IIAKD.
The underalgiipd, having been appointed by
tht Honorable Pr dia'o Court for the District
of Hcnt.lngton. COMMlsSIOMEKS.to receive,
eiaxinuaiid adjust thn claims and demandacf
II persons ataiust the estates of u.an
Hrlgs, Kranceua Camuocll, Andrew Card and
Kmllw tl ft... I I - . - .. , .... I i .1 . !..
... vi n mw III I uwiim III on.u in.ivni: ,
oeeoamii aiul claiim exhibited in olT-etthi.rrM
bore by give notlc- that wo will imvt lor th.
purpose aforesaid, at tho Town llai;i
lr tba Town or I'nwnal In said Di
rict, on the ll'stday of M-t ami lath dayot
ttutiiier neit, rrom II o'clock n m. until
8 o'clock u. in , on each ot said daya and tnat.
six nionths from the llth dsy ot Ap-H, A.
1). Is the Uni limited liysuld Court for mUd
oredltora to present their oluluut to ua for ex
mlnatlnn and a'lnwunrp.
iitd Rtl'0'"I'1,hlsliJr(J'dayorM'r A-
A.J.MEIIHlANr.
II. W. MOKUAN
L'oBUliHjlollO'B
Sea Control Is Broken
nouncing that t':o thing uppermost in
e erybo.ly' ; it.;i;-i iat:on sinc j ; no
outbreak of tne war had finally come
to iiiiso-. The German anil llritish
high seas fleets had clashed in open
battle.
The British admiralty admits the
loss cf at least 14 ships, as follows:
Battle cruisers Queen Mary, Inde
fatigable and Invincible sunk.
Cruiser."! Defense and lllack l'rince
sunk, and Warrior disabled and aban
doned. Fight torpedo-boat destroyers.
The Germans suffered losses much
smaller, both by British claims and
Berlin's adniiinssion. The German ad
miralty admits the sinking of the bat
tleship Pommern and the light cruiser
Wiesbaden, and ?ays that the 'cruiser
Fraue.nlob is missing. A number ol
torpedo craft also are missing.
Details of the battle have not yet
been received, but it is evident that a
powerful German fleet caught a Brit
ish battle-cruiser squadron apart from
the main British fleet and punished it
severely in a battle lasting 24 hours.
finally retreating before the approach
of the main British fleet. There was
great loss of life.
A supplementary statement issued
by the British admiralty early this
morning claims that two German
dreadnought battleships of the Kaiser
class. 24.700 tons, were sunk, that one
battle cruiser was blown up and two
ethers damaged and that a submarine
was rammed and sunk. These losses
if confirmed, would make the score in
the battle more nearly even.
From the advices thus far roccUed
it would appear that the greatest
naval battle of history has taken place.
Never before have two naval forces of
such magnitude as the British and
German high sea fleets engaged in com
bat. But apparently the battle wa
not rought out to a point to determine
mastery of the seas for the losses,
serious as they are reported to luive
been, will not impair the strength ol
either fleet to a vital extent.
The scene of battle was in the east
ern waters of the North sea, near the
Skaggerack. It is probable the Ger
man fleet was on one of the excursions
into the North sea it has taken from
time to time during the war and met
whether or not. by design, with the
British fleet.
Skaggerack is an arm of the Nort!
I sea between Norway and Denmark
i The point referred to in t he ollicial
German statement as Horn RUT pro!)
ablv in the reel off the Horn, on the
southwestern extremity of Denmark
Ibis would indicate the battle wax
fought off the coast of Denmark
From the reef to Helgoland, the main
German navai base in the North sea, k
about 1"0 miles.
Gieat Britain's admitted loss in ton-
naue was iH.siu lor tne six name
cruisers and cruisers. That of Ger
many, excluding the tonnage of tin
Wiesbaden, of which vessel there i:
no record Here, was 40,(1-'. 1 lie ton
nage of the capital ships sunk by the
Japanese in their Tight with the Rus
slnns In the battle ol isushima in
May, 1005, aggregated !C.,0on. Twen
tv-one Russian craft were destroyed
in this fight, including six battleships
and four cruisers. I lie remainder o!
the sunken craft comprised coast dc
fense and special service vessels and
torpedo boats.
That the casualties in the lighting
cf f Jutland wero heavy Is Indicated
bv the fact that of the crew of some
full) on board the Indefatigable onl
two men are known to have been
saved. Full details of the light, In
which Zeppelins are declared to have
taken part, as being gathered by. tin
British Admiralty, and pending their
icceipt the censor is withholding per
mission to correspondents to send out
stories from London.
In tonnage of ships and treasure
lost, and posslblv in the number o'
lives lost, when compared with tin
naval units sunk, the baltle at the en
trance of the Skaggerak, off the coast
of Denmark, will be regarded as th
greatest sea battle of all time.
mm tins engagement the BrillsH
genuine naval hisses, excluding troop?
sunk on Irnuspotts, had amounted In
round numbers, Including war emit 01
nil sorts, to I'.oo.oiio tons, 7.000 lives
and :ioo.)(io.(00 In naval property, and
the German L'liO.uoo tons, 4,000 lives,
nud jUMi.iHHUMin in naval nronertv
While the entire Iosb lo tho Allies wus
represented by 275,000 tons, 8,000 lives
and $::75.OO0.000 in naval property, and
the Central Empire and Turkey re
spectively by 300,000 tons, 5,500 lives.
and 00,000.000.
To the British losses nivst now be
added, exclusive of small craft. 104,
7t!0 , tons and a possible maximum of
5,805 lives, which represents the ton
nage and complements of the three
battle bruisers and the three armored
cruisers reported lost; and to the Ger
man 27,706 tons and l,2!:i lives, sup
posing again that the entire ship's com
panics were lost, as represented by
one batleship anil two protected cruis
ers while the additional naval property
destroved is represented by $104, 7(a),-
000 for the British and f27,70G,0O0 for
tho Germans.
From the German account it appears
that the battle lasted more than twelve
hours. It extended, one is inclined to
believe here, fro mthe area around
Heligoland all the way up to the Ska-
gerak, the North sea arm between Nor
way and Denmark.
The German fleet .it is assumed,
came from its base at Kiel through the i
Kaiser Wilhelm canal, putting into sea
from Bruimsbuttel, the North sea out
let of that waterway. Not many miles
to the north lies the Isle of Sylt, the
base of the German seaplanes and pos
sibly of Zeppelins. It was here that an
engagement was fought between Brit
ish and German cruisers and torpedo
craft two months ago as the result of
a British raid on the hangars.
I here are also evidences ot .ep-
pelins having served the Germans as
tiie "eyes of the fleet." a service for
which they proved well qualified dar
ing the last cruiser attack on Lowe-
toft. A Copenhagen dispatch yester
day, icporte.1 that a Zeppelin had been
sighted over the Danish island of
ance, in a damaged condition, flying
over Denmark in the direction of
Pchleswig.
That submarines played an impor
tant part, perhaps, on llic German
side, tiie most important, in the North
sea light, is generally believed. SVne
naval experts even went so far as to
attribute the German successes al
most exclusively to the participation
of a strong squadron of l.'-boats. It is
pointed out in this connection that
both admiralties claim the destruc
tion of a hostile submarine in the fight
and tiie German account mentions
especially that the Marlborough was
struck by a torpedo.
German Admiralty Statement.
The text of the German admiralty
report follows:
"During the enterprise directed to
the northward our high sea fleet on
Mdv 31 encountered the main part of
the Knulish lighting fleet, which was
considerably superior to our forces.
During the afternoon, between
Skaggerack and Horn Riff, a heavy en
qagement developed which was sue
cessful to us and which continued dur
ing the whole night.
"In this engagement, so tar as
knewu up lo the present, there were
destroyed by us the large battleship
Warspite, the battle cruisers Queen
Mary and indefatigable, two armed
cruisers, apparently of the Achilles
type, one small e-rulser. a new flagship
of destroyers, the Turbanant Nestore
and Alcuster. u large number of tor
tierdo-boat destroyers and ine subma
rine.
'By observation, which was free and
clear of objects, it was stated mat a
largo number of Fnglish battleships
suffered damage frciu our ships and
the attacks of our torpedo boat flo
tilla during the day engagement and
throughout the night.
Among others, the large battleship
Mailborough was hit by a torpedo.
This was confirmed by prisoners.
'Several of cur ships rescued parts
of the crews of Hie sunken Kngliah
hips, among I hem being two and the
only survivors of the Indefatigable.
'On our side, the small cruiser
Wiesbaden by hostile gunfire duriiu
the day engagement and his majesty's
shin I'oniinern. during the night, as
the lesult of a torpe-do. were sank.
'The fate of his majesty's ship
Frauenlob, which is missing, and of
some lorpedo ixaus. which nave not
returned yet, Is unknown.
'The high sea fleet returned today
(Thursday) into our port."
British Admiralty Statement.
The text of the British admiralty
announcement follows :
On the afternoon of Wednesday
the 31st of May, a naval engagement
took place off the coast of JutlanJ.
Tho British ships on which the brun
of the fighting fell were I he battl"
cruiser fleet and some cruisers ami
light cruisers, supported by four but
tlC8hlps. Among these the losses wen
heavy. Tho German baltle fleet, aid
ed by low visibility, avoided a pro
longed action with our main lorces. .ks
soon as these appeared on the seem
the enemy leturned to port, though not
before receiving severe damage from
our battleships.
"The bnttlo cruisers Queen Mary
Indefatigable and Invincible and Ihe
cruisers Defence and Black l'rince
were sunk. The Warrior was disabled
and aft.'r being towed for some tlm
had lo lie abandoned by he r crew.
"It Is also known that the tlMlny
ers Tlppcrary, Turbulent, Fortune
Sparrow-hawk uu.l Ardent were I. is
".'id six others lire not yet aoci'iiiK I
for. No British battleships or light
cruisers were sunk.
"The enemy's losses were serious
At least one buttle cruiser ' vyis tie
Btroyed and ono was severely dam
aged. One battleship Is reported to
1 1 inn linen mink hv finr lies' i'n erq
During the night attack two light ito's
DARK HORSE IIS
IF i "FAVORITE
SONIUCCEEDS
Minor Candidate Managers Show
ing Confidence at Chicago
'OLD GUARD" IS FOR ROOT
Organization Leaders Apparently Pre
fer Any Candidate to Hughes or
Roosevelt.
Chicago, June 3. The problem as to
which candidate is likely to be nomi
nated for president by the republican
national convention seemed as far as
ever from solution last night. Nu
merous conierences between party
leaders yesterday failed to result in
any ngieenumt on candidates, so tar
as could be learned.
While on the? surface the fight ap
peared to be between Roosevelt and
Hughes against the field, there was a
marked Increase in activity at the
headquarters of the varic.us "favorite
son'' candidates. . Managers of t ho
Root, Weeks, Burton, Fairbanks and
Sherman booms insisted that their
candidates would remain in the fight
until the end. They declared, after
tabulating the vote claimed for Roose
velt, that the successlul candidate
would either be on" of the "favorite
Sens" er a dark horse.
The plan of the old organization
leaders is said to be to try and win
first with Root, and if they fail in this
effort, to give Burton. Weeks, Fair
banks and Sherman a try-out in tiie
convention in the order named. In
the event cf failing to put over any of
these the plan is to try to win with a
dark horse, according to reports in
circulation. Senator Warren H. Jlard
ing of Ohio and Guv. -MeCall of Mas
sachusetts were)- mentioned as dark
horse possibilities.
Friends of Rooseve lt claim he will
win after the lormalities eif giving
the favorite son candidates a com
plimentary vote lias been dlsosed ot
while Hughes supporters declared
thrir candidate would be nominated
t ally In the proceedings.
WOMAN ADMITS POISONING
Gets Twenty-Year Term in Providence
Cream Puff Case.
Providence. R. I., June 1. Mrs.
liattie K. Oakley today interrupted her
trial on u charge of murder by plead
ing guilty ef responsibility for the
death of Alinand Vadaboncoeur, who
died after eating a poisoned cream
pulT. She wus sentenced to twenty
years in State prison.
A package containing three pulls
was sent by special delivery to Henry
Cussavant, who for several years had
been on friendly terms with Mrs. Oak
ley. The State contended that his at
tentions to either women had aroused
her Jealousv.
Cassavant ate two of tho puffs and
gave one to Yadehoneocur. The form
er became violently ill, but survived,
and has since been partially paralyzed.
The funeral of Peter Gallipn. who
died Thursday at his home on County
street, aged 55. was held from the
Sacred Heart church this morning nt
II o'clock, Rev. Charles 10. Provost otli-
elating. There was a large attendance
and the cut flowers wire many. In
terment was In the new Catholic ceme
tery at Old Bennington.
ers were disa'.ned and nioPaniy sunk
The exact number of enemy destroyers.
disposed of during Hi-? ai'lbm cannot
be ascertained with any certainty, but
must have been large."
An additional British othclal com
niunication issued at London early
lliis morning says:
'Since the foregoing communication
was Issued, a further report has been
received from the coniniaiider-ln-chh'f
of the grand fleet, stating that it lias
now been ascertained that our total
losses in destroyers amount to eight
boats in till.
"The commnndcrin-chier also re
ports that It is now possible to form
a closer estimate of the losses and
damage sustained by the e iieniy fleet
"One dreadnought battleship of the
Kaiser class whs blown up In an at
fuck by Biitish destroyers and another
dreadnought battleship of (he Kaiser
class is believed to have been sunk by
gun lire. Of three German battle
cruisers, two of which It is believed
were the Derllllnger and the Lut.ow
one was blown up, another was heavily
engaged ny our battle licet and was
seen to be disabled ami stopping, and
Ihe third was observed to be serlouly
damaged.
"One German light t miser and six
German destroyers were sunk, ami at
least two more Gerinanllght cruisers
were seen to be disabled. Further, re
pen led hits were observed on three
other German battleships that were
engaged.
'Mnaliy. a German submarine was
rammed and sunk."
MONDAY NIGHT'S TROUT DINNER
Arrangements Completed for Gather
ing of Fish and Gams Club.
All arrangements have been com
pleted for the trout dinner to be held
at the Putnam house -Monday evening
by the Bennington County Forest, Fish
and Game association. As tickets
have been purchased by a number of
the employes in the local stores it lias
been decided to hold the dinner at 'J
o'clock.
Norman K. Greenslet, president of
the association, will preside! but there
will be no set speeches. It is expect
ed that Warwick S. Carpenter, publici
ty man for the New York state conser
vation commissioner, and Kdward S.
Casselman of Dorset, who is associat
ed with Commissioner John W. Tit-
conib, will be present. Samuel Hawks
will tell how he secured the trout for
the dinner. An orchestra will be in
attendance. ' The affair will be infor
mal in every particular. The officers
of the association have planned for a
social gathering of the men who are
interested in the preservation and
propagation of fish and game. There
will be no frills; just a "gct-togcther"
for an enjoyable evening.
IN OLD VERMONT
Denninton Players to Give Production
in oDuth Shaftsbury.
A committee representing the South
Shaftsbury graded school has asked
the committee in charge of the play
'In Old Vermont" which was so suc
cessfully given in Bennington recently,
if arrangements ould 1 made to give
the production in South Shaltsbury for
the benefit of the school. The hearty
response from those who took part In
the play here has made it possible for
its repetition in South Shaftsbury so
that practically the entire company
will have a merry lark to that town on
our borders next lhursday evening.
leaving Bennington en the fi.15 train
and returning by automobile.
Several Bennington people are al
ready planning to witness the play
again and it is expected that a goodly
number will gj from Bennington,
North Bennington ami Arlington as
well as every good citizen of Shafts
bury who enjoys good wholesome Yan
kee humor and old time music and who
ineldeiitly wants lo help swell the
music fund of the school. The enter
tainment is to be given in Cole Hall.
VERMONTERS URGED TO RETURN
Sons and Daughters Should Pay State
Visit cn Its 125th Anniversary.
Attractive cards relative to the
12 5 th anniversary of the entry of Ver
mont into the Union are being con
tinually printed and sent out by the
Greater Vermont association. These
cards mav be secured at the Rutland
Business Men's rooms in the Mead
building, and the association urges
Vermonters to do their share in bring
ing bark to the state the native born
and the children of the native born
during the year U'hi. The last leaflet
put out reads as follows:
'One thousand nine hundred and
sixteen, the 12ath anniversary eif the
joining of the Union by Vermont, is
the year during which Vermonters in
Vermont may well Invite Vermonters
in other states to visit the Green
Mountain state on special pilgrimage.
We may thus establish intimate re-
it ions which will mean more and
more to Vermont in the coining years.
Vermonters in other states should
know thoroughly the Vermont of the
piesent day, the Vermont of promise.
As loyal children of the state, they
should be in a position to co-operate
with us in realizing the vision of the
future which is awakening the Ideal
ism and arousing the activity eif all
ermonters.
The (.renter Vermont association
hopes that you will send these invita
tions to your friends and relatives in
ether states nut! join in a inightv ef
fort to make the tide of trave l of the
children of ermont turn this year
and coming years lovvalut t lie Green
Mountain state."
FISHED WITHOUT LICENSE
K
A. Schlemp, T. C. A. Student, Lied
to Deputy Pitaniello as to Age
Rutland, June 2. Deputy County
Fish and Game Warden James Pitan
iello was In Poultney yesterday where
he appeared for the prosecution in the
ease (if state against a Troy Confer
ence academy student, Klrt A. Sell
h in p. who was accused of fishing in
Lake Bomoseen without a license. The
student pleaded guilty before Justh
of the Peace Ross, Grand Juror J. K
Sennet t. prosecuting.
Deputy I muuollo asked the young
man tor nls license wnne the latter
was llshing in Luke Bomoseen Decora
lion day ami the student said he was
not If, years of age. An Investigation
proved he was 17 years old.
Ihe young man Is working his way
through school and the line of .'." was
supi'ended. lie paying the costs of
I rosecutioii, about $ I.
KING CABLES SHACKLETON
Rejoices at His Safety and Hopes for
Rescue of Marooned Men,
London. June 'J. King George today
sent the Billowing cablegram to Lieu
tenant Sir Krnest Shacklelem at. th
Fakluml Islands:
Rejoiced to hear eu your safe ar
rival at the I-aikhtnds. I rust your men
nt F.lephanl Island may soon be res
I etied."
ADDED VIOLENCE
III BIG STRUGGLE
IT
Fort Vaux Center of Latest German
Cffensive
TEUTONS TAK CMUETTE WOOD
Paris Claims That All But One
Many Massed Attacks Were
Repulsed.
of
London, June 2. The luu-diy battle
iieiore eniun, already descrined as
the fiercest fighting in all history,
reached a new pitch of violence today.
The Germans attacked the French
front on the cast bank of the Meuse
from Thiaumont Farm, past Fort Dou
auniont and Fort Vaux to the village of
Damloup. Against Fort Vaux they
threw their greatest strength, the
Paris report ol tonight stating that
lliey were determined to carry this po
sition, once claimed by Berlin, "at any
price."
These gigantic efforts of the Ger
mans netted them only a part of a vil
lage in the Damloup section, according
to the French statement. Elsewhere
the massed attacks, following each
other all day, were broken and thrown
back by the French. "The attacking
columns," says the official statement,
"were mown down by our guns and
machine guns, and fullered enormous i
losses."
In the fighting last night on this
front the Germans made a gain be
tween Fort Douaumont and Fort Vaux,
the Berlin statement eif this afternoon
claiming tho capture of Caillette Wood
together with 2.U00 French prisoners.
The artillery continues in very vio
lent actions along this whole section.
On the west side of the river the
French report progress south of the
wood of Caurette, to the west of
mieret?.
Cu-
BUS LINE ORGANIZED
To Run Cars Between Dorset and
Bennington
Stockholders of the new Bennington
Dorset Autobus line met at the ollice
of Collins M. Graves Friday evening to
"gauize. George A. Parker was elect-
I temporary secretary and by-laws
were adapted after some discussion.
The directors elected are Fred S.
Braley, Clarence L. Hidden, Henry I).
Fillmore. A. C. La.Maire and Frenk K.
Howe. The officers chosen are presi
dent. F. S. Braley; vice president, I").
Guiltinan; treasurer, H. Harry
Sharpe; clerk. C. .M. Graves- general
manager, K. W. Williams.
Those who have subscribed for stock
are asked to pay one half nt once and
th
other half on July 15 to H. Harry
luirpe, treasurer. It is planned to put
on two cars Just as soon as possible.
one ut each end of the line and make
four trips each way between Dorset
and Bennington.
YOUNG PEOPLE'S RALLY
To Be Held Sunday Night in Metho
dist Sunday School Rooms.
The young people of the Baptist
Methodist and Ce.ngregational church-
s will have a joint meeting in the
Methodist Sunday school rooms Sun
day evening at ii:3i for the purpose of
rallying for the summer conferences
at Silver Bay and Northlield. A large
delegation from Bennington is plan
ning to attend either one or the other
of the conferences, and it Is hoped
that after Ihls meeting the enthusiasm
of those who have been and those who
Intend to go will rouse in several
eithcrs the determination to join this
year's delegation.
The beauties of both places will bo
set forth by means of stereoptican
views, the attractions ol the different
programs will he explained by those
who have been there, anil the details
expense, I. e.. railtoad fare, board.
lod.-'ing. etc., will be fully given.
Altheiigh much has been said ( f the
value ot summer eiinleren"-i. It is
hard for those who have not attended
one to realize whet a splendid combin
ation of vitiation ami rest, with prep
aiatien for future usefulness. Is offer
ed by them. To net a week's out In
with i lenty eif jollity and companion
ship, while storing up knowledge of
tip-todaie teaching methods, and re
celvlng mental ami spiritual stimulus
lor yeais to come, was impossible un
til tills new kind of summer school was
thought up.
Come and hear about the charm of
boat rides on Lake George, of living In
a tenl at Northlield, of the inspiration
from the stories of returned mission
aries, or from the courses conducted
by such people as Dr. Mlllon S. Little-
Held, (well known to Bi nniniMon slnet
the Sunday School luMiltttc held In
III January.) and Muigarcl ShiUery
that wl.nrd teacher of gi.'ls. F.vcry-
one Interested Is Invited.
W. A. Austin will invo
Tor Detroit, Mich., where
for a few weeks.
this evening
he will vinlt
GERLS FIND 101
fj n v mm
liiurmi mil i
IS SK'.'ff!
Seven Trolleys of Convention Dele
gates Have Pleasure Curtai'ed
SERVED LUNCH IN LIBRARY HALL
Only Half of Party Had Auto Rides
But Band Furnished Music for
Dancing.
A drenching downpour of rain greet
ed tho seven trolley cars Hlled with
young ladies who arrived in Benning
ton shortly before noon today. The
occasion was a visit of J04 delegates
to the National Convention of Women
Workers closing today in Pittsfield,
who wished to take In the points ot
historical interest In the Berkshires
and southern Vermont.
As a result of the inclement weath
er, the proposed auto ride w hich tho
various social organizations of Ben
nington had planned for their enter
tainment, was somewhat curtailed. It
started raining in the early forenoon
and tiie surface water, combined with
the oil on tho streets, soon had them in
a condition where few owners of costly
ears wanted them to go out. As the
hour drew toward noon the rain in-
ci eased and a misunderstanding arose
whether or not the trip had been aban
doned. About two dozen cars showed
up after the girls' arrival, however,
and nt lwist half the young ladies saw
the monument and other spoti of his
torical interest on the hill.
It was planned. if the weather
should permit, to entertain the crowd
at Morgan Park and the members of.
the Young Woman's club went to tho
trouble of sending chairs, tables and
utensils for serving hot coffee to Mor
gan Park. The band, also, was engageel
to furnish music and lrom there the
auto parties were to start as soon as
dinner had been served.
The rain, howe ver, cancelled this
work and the first four trolleys arrived
in Putnam Stjuare with the occupants
huddled behind curtains out of the wet
and uncertain where to go or what to
uo. The Board of Trade oflicials got
busy and in connection with the Wel
fare association, opened up Library
hall. As J. Lawrence Griswold did
not have his key with him. he had to
remove the lock from the hall with a
screwdriver to let the crowd in. and
several automobile owners volun
teered to move the lunch paraphernalia
from Morgan Park down to the hall.
The hall was in rather poor shape as
it had not been cleaned since election
day. But its shelter was better than
standing under the leaking clouds.
With the arrival of the band which
took its place in the balcony and
struck up lively music, the inconven
ience of the cramped quarters wa3
quickly forgotten.
Several men contributed their ser
vices to abet those of the Young Wo
man's elub ladies and hot coffee was
st. on steaming and ihe box lunches-dis
tributed. The band played waltz
music and tor twenty minutes the rain
was forgotten as the young ladies en
joyed dune ing.
While the meal and waltzing was in
progress the rain cleared up somewhat
and scattered automobiles began to
honk in front of libnuy hall entrance.
Most of the garages In town were kind
enougli to send out ears and ninny in
dividuals volunteered to do what they
could to show the visitors u good time.
Some of the drivers made two anil
throe trips to the hill with cars filled
t i capui'ity. All procession form for
the cars had to be abandoned.
Despite the interruption of plans for
entertainment of the visitors, most of
the girls enjoyed u good time and tho
ears pulled out ot two ociock wiui
as good an Idea of Bennington's hos
pitality ns though the sun had shown
through tluir entire stay and things
gone as planned.
The National Association of Women
Workers Is the national organization
of working girls and women s welfare
clubs. Once eaeh year a convention Is
held at different cities throughout the
eoiiuliv where delegates from organi
zations much like the Bennington
Young Woman's club are in attend-
niice.
lust before leaving, ninny of tho
girls In the ball Joined in three cheers
for Bennington hospitality and tho
members of Ihe Young Woman's Club
received the especial thanks of the of
ficers of the putty on leaving.
TO INSURE ITALIAN SOLDIERS
Organization Will Write $10,000
War
Risks Through Subsidy.
Rome, Juno L Italian soldiers nt
ie front may Insure their lives Tor
Slii.iliHl itplei e, according to il new rub)
of the National Institute of Insurance,
an organization subsidized by the Gov
ernment. A request for such n policy
must be made within ten days of tho
lohller's arrival at tho front.
Charles W. Silver has returned from
Torrlimton. Conn., and Is visiting his
father, Fred S. Silver for a few days.
