; , Vol. 26 SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JANUARY I, 1816 No 3 H
An Independent Paper Published Under
;: the Management of J. T. Goodwin ::
H EDITORIALS B Y JUDGE C. C. GOOD WIN
v Christmas Day Bookeeping
i
t i 5C HEN Mr Frlck o New York heard that .the
I j VV savings of some school children In Pitts-
fi burgh, savings of many years, had been lost
1 , by the suspension of a saving's bank where
I, ,. the money was deposited, he inquired the amount
: S " ; and was told that it was $100,000. Then lie wired
Rj to Pittsburgh to tell the children that it was all
!r right, that he would make good the entire amount
lj as a Christmas present to the children. It was a
IK ..very splendid act on his part and it was right to
b )l " wire the story to the world's ends, to every place
v U' r. to which the electric messenger carries news.
I 1 1 ""' It was an example to rich people everywhere
and the knowledge of it should soften the hearts
t c of the poor toward the rich.
"Tony Bradshaw works for $3 per .day and has
ft !) a mother to support. But Tony is like most
I young men. He is dead in love. His divinity is
j i aVbuxom blonde, whose birthplace was across ,:lihe
! I jfM'ts fronv Copenhagen:" 'V
ly '' ' Tony admits that since the world began there?1:
II may have been a few girls as sweet as his, but
not many. During the past month he denied him-
self tobacco and the five-cent glass of beer ho is
in normal times wont to indulge, in after a day's
hard work. He scrimped himself in other ways
I and saved from his wages $30 with which he In-
tended to buy his sweetheart a bracelet and gold
$ ring, take her to a photographer and have her sit
1'L, for a picture for him, take her to a movie at
I'fJl night, and to supper later and hoped to save
' i f enough to buy his mother a $2 pair of spectacles,
that sle might read with more comfort,. and to
r -if carry home to her a hot oyster loaf.
a , He started up town on Christmas morning, re-
l , joicing in anticipation of the pleasure that was
to be his through his proposed gifts. It was a
cold morning, and as he was rubbing his ears and
saying to himself that the air was a trifle crisp,
he ran upon an urchin about ten years old that
) was barefoot.
He stopped the child and said, "Sonny, where
are your shoes?"
I The child gave him a pathetic look and an
swered softly: "I have no shoes." "Where do
you live, sonny?" asked Tony. The child pointed
to a little unpainted house near by and said,
"There.'?
Tony took the boy by the hand and said, "Come
and Bhow me your home?"
Arriving there, Tony found the mother and
two other children; found there wore no com
forts in the home and further that the mother
had had no breattfast and the children only a
crust of bread each. "What a brutal old world
it is?" was Tony's first thought, then after a
moment's reflection he went down into his pocket
and brought up his $30. He looked at it a mo
. ment.then selected out $1.25, handed the rest to
J
SI ''
the woman, telling her that it. was all he had
with him that morning, but that he had plenty
more t home and vanished before the woman
could thank him. He bought a dollar's worth of
roses and took them to his divinity, told her he
had planned to take "her to the theatre, but a few
men were needed whera he worked even on a holi
day night and the" Other men wanted to take
their wives out on that night and so he had
agreed to work.' With the remaining twenty-five
cents he bought a can of Van Camp's baked
beans and took them to his nfother and told her
that the spectacle store was closed. Then with a
grim smile he said to himself: "The Bible says
there will be a hot time for all liars in the future
and I have told three whoppers to three women
today."
His acts were not cabled around the world, but
in the great ledger of eternity both Frick and
Tony have accounts, and it would be good to see
the entries made for each on the Christmas page
of 1915.
The World's Anxiety
SOME thousands of men are dying daily along
the battle fronts of. Europe and Asia; some
thousands of women's hearts are breaking daily
..behind the .battle. linessomeL thousands M ehll-
made desolate by the mighty war, and the shad
ow of the black throne on which Despair sits
draws its pall over all those lands, from palace
to the low peasant's shed. Indeed that shadow
fills the world and the hearts of men are heavy
with it everywhere.
Each power Is accusing the others for the re
sponsibility of the long drawn-out mighty tragedy,
but either Russia or Austria or Germany or Great
Britain might have prevented It. Behind it all
there was a commercial lust, a lust for power, a
land lust, the envy and jealousy of rulers, and
the ancient hates that for years had been urging
it on.
The war has been raging now for nearly sev
enteen months: In poetry and prose gifted
writers will be trying in vain for a hundred
years to come to depict its unspeakable horrors,
every means of destruction has been resorted to,
but if any one of the powers engaged can point
to any real advantage thus far gained, the outside
world cannot see it
Their cities are filled with cripples; their mul
tiplied hospitals with the wounded and dying;
their asylums filled with men whose minds have
been shattered by its horrbrs; their future for
centuries to come will be but a struggle under an
insurmountable debt
Why do they not in unison call a halt? "Has
judgment fled to brutish beasts," and have "men
lost their reason?"
It surely looks that way. The instruments of
death have all been tried, so far in vain; is it
not time for reason to resume its sway? Nothing
has thus far been appealed to except what the
enraged wild beast appeals to! Is that the only
remedy left now, two thousandJyeafs after the
uplifting of the cross?
When the storm first burst our president of- H
fered the good offices of our government to help H
adjust the troubles, y is it not time now to speak H
in plainer terms of the shame and horror of the lfl
war and back the words with something like a jH
demand for a truce that may lead to an adjust-
ment? It is within the responsibility of our gov- H
ernment to do anything it can to bring around H
peace, for this war is more than a clash between, H
nations, it is an assault upon civiliation itself. H
When only a wild beast appeal is made to men, H
if the appeal is repeated often enough, it 'will M
make only wild beasts of them. ' H
Europe is swiftly filling with wild beasts that M
once were men. Q
The New Year, All Hail I M
ANOTHER mile post in the march of the ages M
is reached today. In the onward march in the
lives of men and nations another lap is completed M
today. To Time it is what to monarchies the s M
death of a king is: "The king is dead; long live H
the king." H
While the bells toll the old year out, and ring H
the new year in, those of reminiscent thought are H
recalling that they have lived so many years; that H
their country has been a nation so many years, H
trying, to see .through, the gathering mists ,of tha . H
Venturieswhat advances i5iVwori:1 I has made 'and H
trying to peer into the future and anticipate what H
is to be. H
In many homes only low words are being jH
spoken for a voice that sounded through the home H
a year ago has been stilled; in others all is joy H
for out of the silence a prattle has come that is to H
the household sweeter than the most delicious H
frusic. The most impressive thought connected H
wijp it is that there is no halt between the cradle H
and iie grave the inexorable years have no rest- H
ing place. . H
In our country the jcr bells of gretting drown M
the solemn farewells to .. i old year; across the M
sea theylank of the funeral bells cannot be M
changed to give one joyous ring for Peace has M
fled from those shores and sometimes It looks M
as though Mercy and Hope fled with it. H
In our land we have a right to give the New WM
Year a joyous welcome, for looking the world M
around the most thoughtless must be Impressed M
with the fact that no other land has half the H
blessings that ours has; no other people so much . H
to be thankful for as has ours;' no future half so H
filled with promise as that which like a golden H
bow spans our skies. H
With grateful hearts our people should hail H
this new year and mingled with the joy there H
should be earnest prayer that our government be
guided by more than earthly wisdom and that our H
people reconsecrate their lives to devotion to H
country, and to the upholding of enlightened lib-
erty and justice. ,
In laying out tho New Year's work, with the
thoughts of business, there should bo mingled H
charity for tho unfortunate and a desire for the
advancement of every good, for as Increased bur-
dens are to come upon tho government, increased
duties will be forced upon the people in forms I
