3*fapp? ^tew y^ar
fcrstt?
3
???? HERALD gu?rante? full money'? worth to
* the purchaser of every arterie (not exceediag
$50.00 in price) adverbted in the dupla y coturno?
of thi* paper by any Warhington merchant
NO. 33W.
WEATHER: CLOUDY, WARMER.
1
???aklA?
WASHINGTON. D. C. SATURDAY, JANUARY 1, 191(5.
ONE CENT.
? Hint t?? (? < r
AUSTRIAN NOTE
SETTLES ISSUES,
SAY OFFICIALS
Settlement of Details in Sub
Question of Secondary
Importance.
?CASE CEASES TO EXIST"
Ancona Reply Satisfies U. S.,
According to State De
partment Authority.
MAY BE PUBLISHED TODAY
Penneld's Resum? Wired to Wilson.
Dumba's Successor Will Be Se
lected by Vienn? Before Long.
The receipt of the official text of
the Austrian reply In the Ancona case
and certain developments In the Lusi
tani* case brought Intimations yes
terday from the State Department.
White House, and diplomatic circles
that the entire controversy between
the United States and the Teutonic
powers over submarine warfare is
practically at an end. ?
Tne settlement will be complete, it
was said, when negotiations on several
points of secondary importance are
concluded.
As an evidence of the sincerity of
Au.-tria in her desire that friendly re
lations with the United States be con
tinued, word was given out that Ana
tri* la preparing: to aend an Ambas
sador to this country to succeed Dr.
Constantin Th?odor Dumba, recalls?
t the request of the State Department
some months ago
May ?* UJvea Oil Toda>.
A copy of the resume from Ambas
sador Penfleld was forwarded yester
day to President Wilson at Hot
Springs. Va., and a copy of the note
itself will be sent on as soon as avail
able. Unless contrary instructions are
received from the President thi note
probably will be made public today.
officials of this government were plain
ly fT*t*Vfl by- the attitude nf Austria.
ajaa 4M not hesitate to express their be
lief that 'the Ancona cae*, as an Im
portant issue, has ceased to exist." ?G
nviel opinion generally was that the Aus
trian reply, so far as It deals with the
pr.n.lpl-8 invoked, la all that could be
desred by the United States
The Indications that satisfactory pro
gresa Is being male toward the settle
ment of the lausltlana case were mani
fested after an early otti by Count von >
Bernstorff, the Germai Ambassador, on I
Secretary of sitate !.arv-rng. The out- !
loek in this direction appeared so en- j
couraging last night that It brought from ?
an official, close to the White House,
the optimistic prediction that the con
troversy with Germany will be settled
within a week.
\astrtm tirant? Everything.
A State Department authority salii
"So far as our demands for an 'agree
ment oa broad and specific principles'
are concerned, the Austrian foreign office
has granted everything. It has. in fact.
gone further than we had reason to ex
pect. It la worth noting that Austria
reverted to the principles set forth by
this government ia the first Lusitanla
note in which we contended that it was
not only specific law but dictates of hu
manity which should govern warfare.
Austria has agreed to this almost in
spedile terms.
"it will require analytical study to en
able m to sav officially that It Is entirely
satlsfactorv, as we now think what It ts.
It seems that the sole outstanding
question is that of reparation. By this Is
meant indemnity only. Austria already
has punished her submarine commander
Indemnity is essentially a question of
fact, and questions of fact are always
subjects of arbitration.
? We have rained the sr-*jr points (hst
Austria has put herself oaflLrnrd In sub
scribing to the dean of rjJjtVjon. to Inter
national law. and to the humanities gov
erning present warfare at sea."
"?>? only statement which Baron Zwle
u'aek. ch-irge^d'affalraa of the Austrian
JOmbaaay. would make for publication
I believe that this note showa con
cia^ ely toe desire of Austria to maln
and streng hen amicable relations
tt,\ ih? nlted Stata?."
ice Doves Flutter A
As the ?
Prohibly the most unique welcome ex
taaidei] to the new yeau? la the National
Capitai last night waa that offered In the
Hotel Occidental by lu proprietor. Gus
BuehrWrt.
The ?r?ceme was given by a flock of
wfclte loves which were liberated as the
tall, Td-fashioned ? grandfather's" clock
?hlrnx il TV- doves circled above the
heads of the diners and then, growing !
weary, alighted on rhandell-rs. draperiea
and ?lerever they could gain rooihold
I'r-t^ women imoiii t;ie diners caught
apme ,-f the t?ovf?g and then discovery was '
mad? Jtat a white satin ribbon, bearing j
the nam.? f some warring nation, writ- ?
en in gold letters, was tied to the leg of I
'S. h ,; the dover. ?
GERMANS CLAIM SUCCESS.
Mtu?4 British Tnuh In Artota
I ?pl?r.,l. ?? run H. ?t!.
Berlin (by wireless via Bayvtlle), Dec.
?.?An advance British trench northweat
of Hulluch. In Artel?, haa been captured
by the German?, the war offlce announced
today.
Allied aeroplares bombarded Oatend.
causing heavy damage and ktlllnir many.
The official report follows:
"Weat front?After aucceaaful blasting
the Germans conquered a British ad
vance trench northweat of Hulluch. 8ome
prisoners and two machine runa were
captured.
Enemy aircraft attacked Oatend (Bei
Cium) causine heavy damage to build
ings. The structure moat seriously
wrecked was the convent of the Sacred
Heart. Nineteen civilians were wounded
and one killed. No damare of military
consequence was caused.
BATTLE RAGES
IN BESSARABIA
Russians Repeatedly Attack
Austrian Lines in
Strong Force.
60,000 MEN AND 200 CANNON
THROWN ON 3-MILE FRONT
Hand-to-Hand Fighting in Desperate
F.ffort to Cut Through
Into Hungary.
Special C?bto to TI? Wuhuwtm Hrnld.
Amsterdam, Dec SI.?The Russians
have concentrated 300 runs and three
divisions of troop? (60.000 men) on a front
of three miles on the Besaarabian fron
tier, according to Information received
here from the eastern theater of war.
Twenty-two desperate assaults were
made in succession aralnst the Austrian
positions, but all were repulsed.
Desperate hand-to-hand fighting Is now
in progress.
The Russian? are making a violent ef
fort to cut through into Hungary.
Taris. Dec. Si.-Gen. Castelnau, chief of
the FYench general staff, who went So
Saloniki to confer with the Anglo
French commanders and Inspect the al
lies" defenses, has returned to France
fully satisfied that the Bulgarians and
Germans ea'n never dislodge the allies
from their positions in Greece.
While In Rome on his way back to
fiance Uen. ?asUlnau gave out an lu
t?^'e% jft-'VV.U-J he* rtecl??^ th?? t*?e
German allies would euerer tremendous
losses of life if they attacked Saloniki
One of Gen. Castalnau'a aids supple
mented this interview by saylnr:
"An offensive by the Bulgaiian and
German forces in Greece would cost them
at least 150.000 men."
WELCOME FLASHED BY
WIRELESS FROM IOWA
Local Amateur Catches Greetings
Sent from Davenport tc Rotary
? Club Head Here.
While whistles were blowing and bella
were ringing last midnight amateur
wireless operators throughout the east
ern part of the United State? were Hash
ing a relay message to the president of
th Rotary Club, of Washington, from
the president of the Rotary Club, of
Davenport, Iowa.
Promptly at i::30 o'clock W. A. Parks,
1?!0 Jackson street northeast, one of
Washington's energetic young wireless
operators, caught the message, which
made Its final lap from New Rochelle,
?. Y. The last operator in the relay
was George Cannon, of New Rochelle.
The message, signed "Oswald Backer,
president of the Davenport Rotary Club,"
read:
"To the president of your local Rotary
Club, and especially New Tork and
Washington, a happy New Year to you
and the membera of your club. May th?
coming year be full of love, laughter,
sunshine, and song."
Seven Negroes Slain by Pom?s.
Blakeley, Ga., Dec. 11.?Two negroes
were burned to death and five shot and
killed last night during a series of
rotashes growing out of efforts of a posse
of white men to round up the slayers of
Henry Vllllptque, a plantation overseer.
. Red Star Liner in Collision.
Tandon. Dec. 51.?The Red Star liner
Roddam was In collision and la being
towed to Queenatown, says the Exchange
Telegraph Company.
Home Secretary Reported Resigned.
London, l>ec. 31.?The Dally News learna
tha Home Secretary Simon has resigned.
above Diners
ew Year Is Ushered In
The blrda typified peace and . etr flight
at the mystic hour of midnight in the
height of the revelry with which the New
Year was greeted created a deep Impres
sion. As the white birds circled Just be
neath the ceiling the orchestra played
"The rttar Hpamjed Hanmi," and the
audience, ?taming, sang the national an
them, en chorus.
When the singing died down and merry
making was resumed, it was seen that
but one dove was untaught. The bird
nestled on the top of plush draperies
wh'ch shielded a window and from the
leg of the dove hung a white ribbon, on
which was visible th? word:
"Bagland."
CABINET SPL?T
IS REPORTED
London Papers Fear Resigna
tions pi Some Members
Have Been Offered.
?-__
ENFORCED ENLISTMENT MAY
HAVE BEEN CAUSE OF THESE
iSir Edward Grey, Reginald McKenna
and Lord Buckmaster May
Have Resigned.
Special C?bb to Tbc Wish tup m Herald.
London. Jan. 1.?The ?ablnet's third and
fourth meeting? of this week, called to
discuss the s:tuatfon arising from the
fault of Ix>rd Derby's enlistment cam
paign, were held yesterday. The failure
of certain members to attend gave rise
to speculation as to their probable resig
nations.
The Daily New? and Ix-ader of this
morning says that Sir John Simon, sec
retary of ?late for home affair?, has
sctualiy presented his resignation to Pre
mier Asqulth. His withdrawal from the
cabinet has been predicted because of
ids opposition to the premier's conscrip
tion policy.
The fear was expressed on Thursday
that Walter Runclma.ii. president of the
board of trade, who had failed to attend
recent cabinet meetings, "also might re
sign.
There were predictions In certain
quarters, too, that Lord Buckmaster.
the lord high chancellor: Sir Kdwarri
Grey, the foreign secretary, and Regi
nald McKenna, chancellor of the ex
I chequer, might withdraw from the
? government, but the reported leslgna
tion of Sir John Simon has not come ?
a? a surprise, as It mia stated Thurs
day that absence from the cabinet
meeting would be taken as Indicating
an intention to leave the cabinet.
French Submarine Monge Sunk.
! Berlin (by wireless via 8ayvllle) Dec. 21.
?The German admiralty today announced
that the French submarine Monge had
been sunk In the Adriatic by an Aus
tro-Hungarlan flotilla. The following
statement was Issued
| "An Auatro-Hungaxian flotilla consist
I ing pf flvo destroyers and the cruiser
| Helgoland on the morning of December
I rs? destroyed the French sub?tarine
Monge The seitmd officer and fifteen
aeWors were tq^ten pj-ypner^'
$100.000 Fire at HenVpstead.
Hempatead. >f. T., Dec. II.?Several
firemen were overcome and a number
of families were driven from their
homes in their night clothes when fire
destroyed five ?tore? in the heart of
the town early today with a los? estl
| mated at ?100 000
British i)ecember Loises 18.549 Men.
! London. Dec. 31.?British casualties on
all fronts during December were IS.:,?.
of which 1,001 were officer?. These fig
ures were complied from the officiai lists
publlehed from time to time.
?
!'
Capital Welcomes New Year
With Great Din of Revelry
Merrymakers Have Boisterous Time in Cafes, Hotels and
Streets, While Devout Folk Lift Souls in Prayer and .
Song in Quietness of Churches.
The revelry of jocund merrymakers
mingled last midnight with the songa
of praise of church attendant? in pro
claiming the birth of a new year?a
i ear spotless and full of hopes and
bright prospects.
The jangling of bells, tooting of
horns, shrieking of whistles, clatter
of rattle*, jarring of tin pans, and
1 boisterous shouts of downtown cele
brants went up in a mighty din from
the city, while In scores of churches of
all denominations devout folk on
bended knees lifted their souls in
prayer as the organ notes floated fit
fully over the assemblies.
DorrntOsTat Ntrfft? ?roirtlcd.
In the churches hymns of praise
were sung, while in the cafes and ho
tels the big stringed orchestras and
bruns bands blared forth the latent raR
time music and the most lilting dance
music.
The streets of the downtown section
were crowded with Jocund folk. ? very
one had ? noiseniaking instrument of
some description, and th" tumult of
sound that arose was deafening. A con
tinuous stream of automobiles passed
along Pennsylvania avenue,with the horns
and sirens shrieking, the occupants blow
ing horns and jangling belts, and the
engines repeatedly and purposely missing
fire.
Then, ?s the hands of the big clocks
pointed to midnight, the whistles of the
factories on the outskirts of the city
set up their weird shrieks, drowning ai
I most completely the sllvery-voktd noto?
I of church chimes und bell*.
The cafes and hotels were where mer
I riment reached its apex. While diners,
. with fantastic caps on their heads, sal
at sumptuous supper tibies and drained
their wine ?lasases m honor of the New
I Year, orchestras blared out their catchy
; ??-lections, to the atralns of which young
' folk and old folk glided over the floor
in the igtest tcrpslchorean atop?. There
were bright lights, and dainty ?liehe*-, and
enchanting musi ?? and rapturous decora
' lions, and pretty souvenirs, and in man/
j places vaudeville stunts.
| The main celebration at the New Wil
lard was on the tenth floor. More than
6?0 persons were seated In the big ball
! room, which was beautifully decorated
I with American flags, palms, ferns, and
cut flowers. At one end of the hall was
! a stage, on which tw*nty-tlve members
'of Ht John's Choir were croup^d. slng
\ ing N>w Year carols at midnight.
At midnight the lights went out.and a
bugler sounded taps. From a balcony
over the Meyer Davis Orchestra a big
ship's bell was rung. Then, at each end
of the hall, flashed into flame Immense
electric signs reading, "Happy New
?Year." Dancers glided around among
the tables, ?hile other merrymakers at*?.
J The small ballroom was the scene of
most of the dancing. This hall also con
! tained some dining tables. All of the
? diners wore fancy paper caps of unkjue
i designs. The souvenir* for ladles were
CONTINI KD ON PACK TWO.
President and Bride to Appear
At New Year Reception Today
"First Lady of the Land" to Participate in Public Function
for First Time?Society Folk and Mountaineers
to Mingle at Hot Springs Hotel.
Special va rtiu ?-*?'.?<- .n Hf nW*
HotJUiJ-Lr.gS, Va..*??*-?* 9J 'l?*".'*:?f'??
-fitteti und bis ?/?a^ will appeur at
ttieir first public function here tomor
row afternoon, when several hundred
guests and townspeople ?ill meet the
"firs' lady" at a public reception to be
held in the hotel. While there will be
no official color to the reception, It
will. In reality, take the place of the
New Tear's reception. which has long
heen a custom at the White House.
It will be very Informal, the guests
merely meeting the President and Mrs.
Wilson. Rome of the most brilliant
social lights of the county, however,
will mingle with native mountaineers.
Included Minong the guests will be Mr
Rutherford. Mr. and Mrs. Jack MH'il
tough, Mr and M??*. J. Herman ftidder,
Mra. Kelh Barton French, and others
of New York.
The President and Mrs. Wilson com
bined pleasure and business today
After a morning spent in work in their
suite, they played Alteen holes of golf
and went for a thcrt motor ride, re
turning to the hotel early in the even
ing.
They watched the death of the old
year and the birth of the new in the
qutet seclusion of their suite, while all
around them in the hotel resounded
the usual Joy and ajayety.
Protecting the
Public*s Purse
That is the Purpose of This Personal
Guarantee of The Washington Herald
THE HERALD guarantee? full money's worth to
the purchaser of every article (not exceeding
$50.00 in price) advertised in the display columns
of this paper by any Washington merchant.
YOU will find a duplicate of the above box occupying the right "ear" space at the
top of this page where it takes its permanent, position alongside The HERALD'S
name-plate.
Guaranteeing to HERALD readers money's worth from HERALD advertising was
inspired by the recent movement of the Retail Merchants' Association and various citi
zen associations of the District of Columbia looking to the suppression of fraudulent ad
vertising.
Elbert Hubbard once said that the only thing you could afford to guarantee was
that which did not need a guarantee.
And so it is with advertising of Washington merchants appearing in The HERALD.
With ali ?he advertising of Washington merchants carried in The HERALD during the
past year we do not know of one case of dissatisfaction on the part of the buying pub
lic. Hence The HERALD'S money's-worth guarantee. The price limit of $50.00 is
made simply in order to confine the censorship to artici t? that can be properly apprais
ed by the average merchandising man employed on a newspaper advertising staff.
Should any case arise outside the $50.00 guarantee figure, Th? HERALD can be de
pended upon to exert itself in the interest of the reader. 'Also this paper will take imme
diate steps to make impossible a recurrence of any such advertising.
PEACE PARTY AT COPENHAGEN
Forty Delegates taM ta Be rrepar
i"a to Hetara t? V. ?.
Copenhagen, Dec. 21? The Ford peace
party arrived this afternoon from Stock
holm. The ship has been tentative!"
chartered to take the delegates to The
Hague. Only a few are expected to make
(he voyage to the Dutch capital, how
| ever as about forty members of the
party are making preparation? to sail
for the t'nlted State? from here.
! In addition to the gift of K.W> an
nounced yesterday for the Scandinavian
| peace societies another gift of ?1O.0O0 was
j wired from the pacifi?t?' special train
1 for charity.
ASTOR IS MADE
ENGLISH BARON
Native-Born, Expatriated
American Is Honored
by the King.
LORD CURZON IS AMONG THREE
NAMED KNIGHTS OF THE GARTER
Former Virginia Beauty, Nannie
Langhorne, Is Now the Hon.
Nancy Waldorf Astor.
?pattt < ??-if to The Washington Heral?.
Ixmdon, Dec. 31.?Wiliam Waldorf As
tor. a native-born American, was made
a baron through the distribution today
of th** new years honors by King George
V. Three American women received
titles. They are the wives of Sir Thomas
Shaughnessy and Thomas Keecham, and
Mrs. Waldorf Astor, daughter-in-law or
William Waldorf Astor. Sir Thomas
Hhaughnessy also is a native-t?orn Amer
ican.
The distribution of the new year's
honors was as follows:
Baronies?William Waldorf Astor. Sir
Thomas Shaughneesy, Sir Alexander Hen
derson, Capt. Cecil William Norton and
David Alfred Thomas.
Knights of the garter?Kart Curxon. the
l>uke of l>evonshlre and Viscount Lord
Mersey.
Karontecies? Admiral Sturdee. Hir Will
iam ?loschen. A. A. Booth, chairman of
the Cunard Line, and Sir Charles John
son.
Knighthood?Thomas Beecham.
lord ( ?rm*n? Ut*?? Umor
lA?r<i CuiSaat, whotc ?eeooJ ?il? ?ail*
the daughter ?? ?* ?. Leiter, the Chicago
millionaire, receives the highest order in
the British empire
The American women to receive titles
are I-ady Shaughneasy, who was Kltxa
beth Nagle, of Wis-onsln. Lady Beech
man, who was ?'tica Wells, of New York,
and Mrs. Waldorf Astor. who was Nannie
l?anghorne, one of three famous I-ang
horne sisters of Virginia, known as thr
Three ?races" for their beauty. She
enters the charmed of the British peer
age as the Hon. Nancy Waldorf Astor.
and will receive the title of Lady
Waldorf at the death of her father-in
law. Her 8-year-old ?on. BUlie, becomes
the Hon William Waldorf Astor.
The New Year'? list la a remarkable
corollary on the .crowing power of the
censeivative party in the destiny of the
British empire during Its critical stages.
It lias been openly spoken during the
past six years In the London club*, thai
when the conservatives come into power
Astor would receive his reward for
??loyalty."
ANXIETY FOR GHELK LINER
>r? Direct Word fron? Ship, bat If*?
aaare *?>? "All Well."
?racial S? The Washington HrraJg.
New York, Dec 31.?There is anxiety
for the Greek liner Thesaalonlkl. which
has been more than thirty days en route
to this country from Gibraltar
Agents of the line declare they have
been unable to obtain direct wireless
communication with the steamer, despite
the fact that wireless mesaages have
been received by other vessels. No
coast station heard from her today and
the coast guard cutter Seneca, which
has been searching for her since Thurs
day, reported late today that she had
searched within seventy miles of the po
; sitici given by the Thesaalouikl but had
J been unable to Und her.
1 1* ter a message was received from the
| Th?staloniki reading:
| ".vit well. Waiting* noareat ship, S. S.
Fiorirei, which is coming to our assist
| ance."
I Eelief that the master of the Theua
I lunik! was doing his utmost to make port
; without assistante in order to save sal
vage was persistent in steamship circlet,
CHINESE REBEL PHESIDENT
\t librii of II llimn ? hmiii to Dr
Proclaimed. I* Heporl.
Siecial CSjVgg t<? Th? Washington Herald.
Pekin, Dec. 31.?It Is learned that Li
Ching Hai. former viceroy of Yannan
and Kill Chow provinces and nephew
of LI Hung Chang. Is to be proclaimed
president of the Yunnan confederacy
immediately. The viceroys of Kwang-Hl
and Kue-Chow provinces have tele
graphed the Vekin government that,
while they are not associated with the
Yunnan province, the mo ? art h > must
be abandoned and the rt public inain
tsined.
The key to the situation has '?ecome
Sxi-Chuan province. Gen. Tsaf-Ao Is
leading the Yunnanese army in that
direction, and if he ie successful all
?>f South China will rise in revolt.
To My Parr?Mast
Many thanks for past favors, and
wishing you all a happy and prosper
ous New Year. Krnst Gerstenberg,
1S43 Pennsylvania avenue. Establish?*
188C?A?v.
GENERAL SESSION OF .1
SCIENCE CONGRESS IS 1
DEFERRED TO MONDAY
First Tangible Results of Pan-American Con
gress to Be Manifested in Resolutions
on Various Subjects.
NEW WORLD IN DEFENSE UNION
John Barrett in Vigorous Speech Brings to Go?? the Cam
paign of Publicity Favoring a Closer Relationship
Between Republics?Many Topics Discussed.
? > JOSEPH ??? ASTRI*.
With a more or less startling warning of probable Europea? ag
gression voiced by John Barrett, director general of the Pan-America?
? l.'nion, the propaganda of publicity in favor of a defensive union of al
j the American republics lo present a united front of moral and physical
? torce against European military power, virtually was completed ytaan
day as far as the second Pan-American Scientific Congres ua? ?se
cerned.
Mr. Barrett used very plain English in telling the Latin-American
republics that as an attack against the United States from abroad ? -?Id
in effect be an attack upon their political integrity, it behooved them le
join the big brother in the North in a defensive alliance of America for
the Americans.
?
EIGHT MEN DIE
IN BIG OIL FIRE
Twenty Others Injured at
American Linseed Plant
in Chicago.
WINDOWS FOR MILE AROUND
SHATTERED BY EXPLOSION
Plani and It: Contents Valued at Mil
lion?? Naphtha Tank
Expioried
? v? -
??aii.ni is TV WsattaiM H -, -
Chicago. Dec. "1 -Ari-oMine to U?e po
lier of South Chicago, fight men ver?
killed and litntr injured In an explosion
In tbc plant of the American Unseed Oil
Company at One Hundred and Tenth
?treat and the Calumai River thla after
noon. The building caught Are. following
an explosion of a tank of naphtha In the
metal room o? the plant.
The oil let so ?Uh a terrific roar that
shook buildings within a radius of a mile
and broke hundreda of windows
Burning oil. scattered by the blaut,
started fires In several parts of the build
ing. Flamea were shooting through the
roof of the structure aa the employe?
fled.
The plant Is valued at a quarter of a
million dollars and the contents three
times that much.
BRITISH CRUISER NATAL
BLOWN UP; 325 PERISH
Warship Smashed to Pieces by Inter
nal Explosion While in Harbor,
Admiralty Reports.
*nrrial ('able to The Washingler. Herald
Lx>ndon. l>ec. Jl.?The British cruiser
Natal waa blown up In its harbor yes
terday afternoon, with a probable loes
of 10? lives.
The official statement from the ad
miralty aaya the ship waa wrecked by
an "Internal explosion " The admiralty
statement reported that 4f?) of the
Natal"? crew of about 725 were saved.
It is believed many. If not all of these,
were ashore when the cmiaer waa
sunk.
An investigation has been ordered,
but the results have not been mad?
public. News of the disaster waa with
held from publication for nearly 14
hours until the admiralty had received
accurate statements as to the number
of survivors and the probable loss of
Ufe
The Natal was commanded by rapt
Eric P. Black. R. N.
FIGHTIKG OK ??S TIGRIS.
British Cat??III? a n.,...r..? as TI
Killed and ?'"?' wlasiag.
)/mdon. Dec, SI.?Gen. Townsend re
port? that the village which the Brit
ish hold on the right bank of the
Tigris, opposite Kut-el-Amgra. wa?
subjected to l*h?a\> rifle fire on Mon
day. ?r hotir'a armistice waj* agreed
upon in wh'rjfh to bury the dead and
remove the wounded who were lying
in large numbers in front of the forts.
The total British casualties during
the Christmas fighting were three of
aV*ara and sixty-eight others killed and
1*9 wounded with one missing
Greece Makes Second l*rotest
Berlin tb> wirelcsa'. I>ec SI.?Greece
has 'nade s second and stronger protest
to the entente powers against the erec
tion of fortin.-aliens aboui Saloniki, ac
cording to reiOTls received from Ath?ns
today.
Balttsweee ??? Okie I? BalltM.re.
11.&0 round irlo every Saturnia.? and
Sunday, good returnns. until ?am
Monday?Adv
r Geaeeal Mcetta* ru?nese* I
It was announced last right ttsal the
fall general aesadon of the t'o-.r-eea,
s - bed uled for thia morning at Conti ?ntav.1
Memorial Ilall had been postponed aaa
til Monday. The delegate? are tirasi
after a strenuous opening of the eon
grese, and many did not fee) like pea
paring their r?solutions tor today It ?nag
stated
While discussion of matters of inter
national law and pan-American polities
have overshadowed to a large estent tata
other actlvltlea of the ? ungi sea la tasi
public mind, the Interchange of ?Irwa as
various sections hnve resulted in the pee
lioslng of a number of ? ero -Mona ?a?
pressing the combined Judgment erf pwa
A menean sa rants on matters sf health,
edooatiee. sociology. ?11 cad
?nd other dlv**lona of * tene*. A
bar e.r these laail?tvH.?. It U
bare been approved by the exr-'uiti
csenruittee of the congress and will be
1 ?? as anted at Monday a general meeting,.
RlraiRS? Of Frwlrskir? t*ewr*e*eS
The Argentine .delegation will p-eaant
' a reaolutton providing for Ute es*?rmnh
| meat of an exchange of university pro
fessera sod studente between 1 alati
I American and l'ntted osata* tnstttutloaa?
of learning, and for the ??-*>p?*????? of
new Lureau* which aball hav* charge of
collating scientific Information of intoroat
to the Americas The plan Is undirateen*
to include the publication of a r? ?srw
or magasine. Chite will present too. a
most compreben*?ve r?solut?*??. .It u not
expected that there will be mach sejasyav
tunity today for lite dlsrstastoa of tan
resolution? ts be presented, bet full eaw
portunlty will be given to Uta ee.ogm>*ns
to present resolution* as the alpssabeesaal
roll of countries win be called for that
purpose.
Dista aal as ? of pable law, sssHr health.
the proper training of diploaaauete and
commercial attaches, and tJa* anisasen east
proper training of women and Its eaaeat
upon the child, were among tase topics of
Interesting discussi?? at the various eee
tiona yesterday.
? lasasiss er Tlali.
The question of promoting ajad prenar
Ing for the expansion of traste In the
western hemisphere was dis rosead at a
meeting of educators st which James A
Farrell. president of Use Us
Steel Corporation.
on commercial easarsvtsoa la
?Mates
Mr. Farrell esaaansatsad) the need ef
an army of e|?n.jelly trailed Amen.. -
? teamen and emelsyei *er the for Ugo
trade which, ha aeld. is a* es-cn? a a?
American abipa and Anstisoan banks
Such men are lacking aariee. Mr Far
rell, who drew aUentter tc eCucatiens
work that Is now being muled, en smoeg
industrial <oa>cerns tu ? apply the d*
ficlencl?'.
W. J. Car . director of the CesaaaJaal
Service, defended the existing system
"Political Influence, rsjotrary tc tha
general opinion, he said. "Is net in as y
way iieceeeary for entra?es ietto ?he sere.
Ice. Admission Is by IQ? latlot and
there 1* great need for the adajhast greda
of .nen on account of the very laaaasr
tant part played by the sei ?Ice in the)
relations of the l'ntted States ah-nnd
Terrer ?? la- s Reateilal
That terror of the law la eoe of the
most effective forces la aawabattig
crime and that tie prestige of criminal
lew Is weakened by misplaced sym
pathy for crim?nala waa the opini**
expressed by chartes ?. McLs-an for
mer Justice of the auprema Court of
New York, in the session of the sub
section on public lee
Speaking on -Criminal laaw and Pro
cedure With etpecial Reference te
Scope and Umita of Jury Tr?ala." Dr.
Jesse A Vararne Terrea, of Colomba?,
sold that the Inconveniences of the
erstgm of leans! evidence _nr of vert
grave character ?no the aspi? ?non o
thia system to jury trial* ??.tall de
? lo rabie results. The J?rg bau ??oasi
to be the redeeming haestitution an?
it being the product of experience and
atedy It la expected that it will sapor
???t??'?? of? raua two.
