4 Iss Tf L . f4fc rHE weather FREcAsik r i
1 ble imaginative story by an tin- lit Lfm rL y5B'SMICX" ak. k. jV' --W Cloudy and warmer to-day: snowfl-daV a .
TSiSsrasys "rni LLy 1 1 K mwBSm 11 TT , rain ; ra!n to-mrrow- i
IN THE SUN TO-MORROW. I V' Highest temperature yesterday, 31 llfl-gBr.... R, 1
1 1 , J CgBBBSS2dS9fihlRft Detailed weather, mall and marine rcporrMQBg&l A
J, -J
j
VOL. LXXXIII. NO.
123.
MERRY CROWDS
NOISILY GREET
Old 3Inn 'Fiftoon Totters to
His Doom as Hrosulvvny
Speeds Him.
JIKSTAf HANTS KX.I0Y
IMXOIM) I'ATJlOXAUl'i
The Vciy Venerable Julm .1. 'Fifteen,
tottering where lie Mood, stuck It out
until midnight struck tills morning. lie
dropped In IiIh tracks then, all shot up
with bullet holes. Ills groans unheal d In
tlie general upioar. And on to Hroadway
and environs ui the same moment, the
Mime Instant, toddled his fat ttiminled
b.ihy succcssoi, clothed moidl)' In fur
rowing fold of pinkish Ilesh ami mem
ugly iili.vtjcj with the notion that ull
wns loveliness before him.
Hut Haby 'Fourteen had come lo town
Ih'.it wa) and so had even Haby "Fifteen.
And now look at the dutn things!
Nevertheless, despite the fuct thaf
Hiwsle Worthlligtou, head of the Y. M.
C. A. department 01 me itac.-uet Club,
tiad left llroadway und his accustomed
bieakf.ist table nl Jack's Hat to upend t-t. Mc(!all mny be u eandlilate him- ' uiuiersiano aim i am ueiennineu uny uiueiem ire.uineni man any ouier 1 1. Koieign Secretary, and Hegiuatd Mc
the nlRht rending an Instructive book up self. It Is hinted. ilh.it the npiHilnttneiit slnUI be teiniiorary. merchandli-e that !h liable to search and. I Keiina. Clinncellor of the lOxche.iuer.
at the Ardsley Club, despite the fact
that Uocj.li TaiUlngton had left town
lor his home In u place, called Indian- Tavo, He sons may ne an amuoing us
a oils, Ind. ; that Squire Jawn Drew Is time, but i "two spot" Itepubllcan ran
out pl.tylug the tank towns where fruit defeat Wilson.
leinoved from the dining room, as per
notices. In charged extiee; that even
Dick Harding Davis is In Kuroe I
dcvplte these rtbeeiite.w Hroadway and a
meet running parallel to It called Fifth
fime ami nuineroris cross streets In
hMlv.Aii I.Mlm.i.'il Ilia n.a' li.il.i law! '
night nnd this morning with the dod
derndest uproar that even the world's
largest city (see recent census report)
ever greeted the arrival of a new ear.
Word Conies 1'roni lllclt OnvU.
Around the grill at Delmonlco's there
was the slightest of pauses In prepara
tions during the late afternoon when
word filtered through the place that Dick
Davis was spending New Year's Kve
abroad cheering up a lot of Kings and
things. Hut llnally a sort of "Oh, well,
let's make the best of It" sentiment was
passed around Del's as Dick calls It
and thereupon It was decided to go on
with the suppers and the dances In the
Palm Garden.
A brass band of excellence, supposing
there Is such a thing as a brass band of
excellence, beat the noise makers to It
up In Columbus Circle.
tTIw 1 taunt 1 started In at dusk, or
before the crowds, all fed up with din
ner, broke into open spaces Jangling with
raucous horns Mriped Ilk? barber poles,
rattlers which, despite their fllmslness,
could make a noise like "grghgrghni
tnigruggruggKgKh" anil bells and a few
ticklers and various other Impedimenta
which proed that on ew ear s Kve at
least all men, women and children are I
created foollbh. (
The biggest crowd of supperers ever
assembled under one roof hat down at j
the Waldorf. The biggest ciowd sat ,
nnwn ai ine .iMor. inr ijikkcsi ltowu .
sat nnwn at tile 1'iaza. i.very place a
crowd sat down It was the biggest at
aM it was the biggest and seemingly
thi most free sptridlng New Year's Kve
cioaiI tlie several msiltres it notei nad i
an, I ecoid or I
( romls nt tlir 11 lur Hotel.
T'tcie were more than 5.000 celebrat-I
Ire at the Wnhlotf, more than 5,000
nt t'e Astor, more than .",000 nt the
Plar.ii anil more than a thousand at the
r.ltz-Carlton. Tom I truly, ileorge Hec
tpi, .Inclines and Andre llustnnobv,
J.nne Chuichlll, James Itegan's Knlck
iibo.'ker, the llelinont, tlio IJIItmore,
llelncnwf ber's, Shanley's, the Woodstock,
!' . 1 vr i 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 , Sherr.'i DehnonlcoV, the
8' Itecls, the Saoy, Hotel Nctherhind.
Wnlllrk's, .Miirrn's. the Ansnnla, the
Viiliderhllt. the Holland Houre, the
r'otliaiu. I'.ilit' Columbus Circle and
K'.'ith stieet ic-taiirnntK, the Kmplre,
the MeAlpIn, the Martinique, the Im
perial, the Manhattan any hotel or res-
ill . , , i .hi hi... n. , i
'r"ol'.";t.".llh "'I.! - .B.B,"t. 1 !
, ' . " " ' ' ... .. .. ...i.
poo is - Knew 10 say .... a ! o ,
Is being read a whole lot of them arc
Hill sticking mound with hopes of com-1
iiik ii. inr ,i i r eome iiinu uitiuoii ..iiiioi.i
tnoiulnc.
Whether or not tlie aulomohlle show
at drum! Central Palace n:is tespolMlble
for the iihinnmcna, the fnct remains
tint rmely have tables been reserwd
for visitors from point so far North,
South and West In Tom Healy's, for
Instance, one happened upon Hill fjookby
of III Paso, Tex., whose table had been
1 served by the only Col. Matt Wlnn.nble. with tier entrine utiil Imllee innmq
of Kentucky and the world nt lurge, suh:
or. one nlsle to the right and one to
tlm left, State Attorney Mnclay Hovne
of Chlcugo, or tliu Hanui von Kossack,
who w a resident of C'in.ida right uii
to ine moment Unit war sturted among
the nelshl.ors
Tat (iallnulier of C.'iIiih In 1. 1st.
Awilii. leaving Healy's and moving
toward more southerly isilnta of Ireland,
nho was (he first mpperer one aw upon
euteiLig Shuttle)-'? P.it (lalhmhcr of
China, that's all the same Patrick Hal-I
higher who, after l.cmg graduated from
tlie 1'nner.slty of Dublin almout a score
of )eius ago, went to China, Is now edi
tor of the ir lUntcm Bureau and
speaks Clunk so fluently that argument
wns nrcesn.iry last night and this morn
lug to ciimiuco know it alls that Put
tiallagher le nr' on Orluitat,
While thbc folks were assembling at
their bibles the police reserves were
turning out all along Hroadway shortly
nrwr dusk to see to It that the crowds rr " "en. ngu uenng ap-
went south 011 one side of the street nnd l'are.l before Judge (lager In tlio Supo
norlh 011 the other. Dcuplte the record 1 rlor Court this afternoon and got a dl
breaking cmwds In the hotels and res- vorce from Uustitvc tiering of "Fall Held,
tiuranls, however, for roasons known , The child wife, a ptctty red cheeked
to themselves the Hroadway throng of, woman of IK now, toh the court of her
sell known ladies and gentlemen ubout , husband's cruel acts.
town from Ilrownsvlllo. Union Hill,
jiriene, wmcn is said
to be In New
mid Woodlawn, ,
Jerey ; . aphank, L. I
Westchit-tcr csiunty, were slower to as
fcemble lli'iu In former years.
As midnight npiironched, hhwiver,
Grace and Hill and Charley and Kinmy
-and Clara and nil Vn rest of them
were saturating Hirmdwny with the
noisiest of titires and feet shuffling.
From City Hall, far In the south, where
nil the delicacy of the la..cork which
Cari (llllurt designed and called tho
Woolworth llulldlng nhlinmered against
lle sl.y In traceiiea of sliver, 'way up
to that P-wt of Harlnni where (now still
Coiitlmird on I.ait rage.
. m ' ' ' vuu 1 VjllUN X O. li I
MEDICINE LABEL LAW TO-DAY.
llcallu Oltlrlnla Xot Disturbed h
Artlon for lnjnnrllon.
Officials nt the Health Department
said yesterday that they were, not dls
turbed by the efforts begun In the Su
preme Court by member!) of the Proprie
tary Association of America to test the
constitutionality of the ordinance of the
Hoard of Health, which goes Into effect
to-day, requiring nil makers of patent
medicine to register the Ingredients of
their preparations with the department.
The health experts, who denied em
phatlcally that the campaign had nny
connection with the American Medical
Association, said that they would go
ahead with the work of enforcing the
ordinance despite the action to nt.t.iin im
i Injunction restraining them. It was said
yesterday that the work of pasting
S.OOO.COO labels on bottles of nostrums
I which druggists have In stock was vir
tually completed. Ilere.ifter nny plmr-
in.ivini in iimmimciurer wno is round in
possession of nn unlabelled bottle which
he has not registered will be prosecuted.
$10,000 TO 10 CENTS; NO TAKERS
Tiini I.shmiii Offers llnj Tlinl lc
Ciill Won't Indurat- WrrltN.
Huston, Dec 31. Massachusetts He
publicans on the eve of the Inaugura
tion of a Itepubllcan Governor rind
themselves threatened With another split
In the ranks. (lovernor-elect McCall
has ivut Indorsed the candidacy of Sena
tor Weeks for the 1'resldentliil nomina
tion und friends of the latter aie tak
ing It to heart.
'1 nomas Ijawson offered last Friday lo
bet 110.000 to 10 cents that MeCiU
would not Indume Weeks and found
no takers. Uiwsou's daughter Is the
wife of McCall') fon. n It w.is llcured
that utwson was betting on
thing.
11 """I
The Weeks people desire an undivided i warden "on a vacation." 1 he prisoners I mem lo-uaj. weaimg wan ..ie iiih- tMellt fnlilnet meetings. nln might re
delegation to iNiicngo for the Senator agree with them. Dean Klrchwey. now i question, that of panel ost, he kjIiI,kii, Theie v.cie predictions In rertnlil
ns Atassnchusettji's TavoHte son." but hi title ut least Warden Ktrchnvy, that under International law p.m-els .,fip . n,,.. im-L.,,,,..., ii,.
this lie cannot get without a sharp eon- i
h.u.s Sumner Hlrd. the I'rogrwHe
leader, declared to-night that playing ,
FIRE SIGNALS FAIL
TO AID LOST LINER
r. s
Cutter Searches in Vain
to Clear Mystery of Dis
nhled Thessiilonilii.
Tie coast guard cutter Siheca which
has been searching several days for the
Greek liner Thesjalonlkl. disabled and
crawling toward this port from the Med
iterranean, was unable to locate the
steamship yesterday, possibly because of
the uncertainty of her Impaired wire
less, which did r.ot properly give her
position. There Is nn Impretslon here
that her sklper may not have been able
to take an observation for some time
and that he Is just guessing where the
ship la.
A wireless from the Med Cross liner
Klorlzcl, bound from Halifax to the West
Indies, which was In communication with
the Thefsalonlki on Thursday night. In-
dloated that she was meeting bad
weather ar.d that she was "In the same
place all the time and making no head-
-ij-
The report that there bad been trouble.
leten Capt. (ioul.mdls and his olllcers .
was ne. urn ax ,ne ..ieto one i.ioc.. . ,
"3 r. M e.ill ..,if .nt rrr.n, tlm . i n
Tuecday. It was said, was signed by
" ....
Chief OthVer Orloff and three other ottl-
cers. The skipper countermanded the
call later.
Steamship men were puzzled over the
action of the t.reek ship's oHlcers, de
clarlng that it flavored of Jnsubordlna
tlon. John tlalanos, one of the mali
ngers of the lreek line, said Capt. t.ou
landls was the best Judge of the ability
of his ship to make port, and that he
believed she would do so without aeslst
mice. lie would say nothing of the re
Ijrt that the skipper w;m fearful of pay
ing big salvage nnd therefore would avoid
taking a tow.
Tlie Seneca can charge nothing for
her services, towing or helping other
wise, us she Is one of the philanthtop.e
fleet of I'nele Sain whose npecialty Is
glvl' g succor.
Tlie Florlzel reported to the navv
X-'terday morning by wlreles that
"h- hud tecelied anothe: i,ierage f.om
the Tliessalnnlkl saying that shu liad re
(mi fhp w;8 Imrin(f tiMn..M
signal to enable the Seneca to llml her
tn(, niK jk.
T'ie Tnessalonlkl has '200 passengers
a boa id
The ThHysalonlkl sailed from Plrneue.
llreece. for this port cm .November "2
nnd pawned (llbrnlt.tr December I. The
next heard of her was a report that sin
was In distress from a storm on Decem
ber Jfl mid had called for help to the
Italian liner Stampnll.t early the follow-
illir itiornillir. snvllur she wim niiirnvnrn
Hooded. The Stampalla went to her aid,
but the stnrni subsiding tlie Thessalon
Ikl r-fii.ed succor The Stninpalla nr
rlved last Saturday and reported that
the (ireek liner was listing badly when
they parted nnd' III danger If another
stoini st 1 tick her.
At the time of the storm the liner
wns about (ISO miles at sea, She should.
even at reduced speed, have made port
by last .Monday, mid It was announced !
by the Hue that she would sail again
for flreecn on the following Wednesday
with 1,000 pnssengeis. When she did
not appear the Seneca was sent to seek
her.
WHIPPED, SHE GETS DIVORCE.
I f.'lrl Weddeil When I I l.rfl Una-
bund Who Wns CrnrI,
IlKiniiKi'oiiT, Conn., Dec. .'II Married
''en she was' 1 4 to a man who whipped
After they were married, shs said
Dei rim beat her eveiy week with a llt ,
having a huge buckle, The beatings left
big welts on per iio.ty. She finally had 1
to have Derlug and Is now working In !
.Mount vernon, w. t. one nr the strange I
circumstance In the case Is that Derlng I
Is living at tils mother-in-law's home in i
Fairfield. The inotherdudaw symna-1
thlr.es witn uering mm she told her
daughter not to come to ine house.
The couple were married November 13,
19 IS, when Derlng wna 20 years old.
SK.IIOHII FMIKIIIA l,TI. sua p. t
from I'rnns. Hlstlnn. ('iilckr.t, nnret trala
South U slinrtrNl, most attractive rout
H(titvrdAlr Line Hy 1111 Urud , jhv
NEW YORK. SATURDAY. JANUARY 1. 1916. Conurlaht, 1916. bv the Sim Printing nmf PublhMnn AiuoclnHon. PDIfl? TMm
WARDEN OSBORNE
GOES OUT LIKE LION
Convk'ls Cliopf II im ns Kirch
wcy Slips Quietly Into
His Plnce.
NKITIIEK SUKE OF STATUS
'Xtnv Appoiiitop PptormiiiPtl to
Jd'iiiniii nt (In1 Prison Only
Tcinpornrily.
A iiessinK contest might le st.irleit
on the question whether Thomas Mutt
Osborne Is completely and Mnally ousted
as warden of Sing Sing prison and hlslKv no IniinunUy further than
friend Dean (!corKe W. Klrchy per- gen lo ordlnaty merchandise. They
nuiienlly In his uv or whether the ". be searched and If found to con-
arrangement Is only u stopgap until the
waiden Is found guilty or nut guilty of
the chnrnes of Immorality, perjury and
mismanagement.
So far as can be gathered Hupeiin
teudenl of I'rlnjns John li. Itlley's iui-
Jpolntiuent of Dean Klrclmey us warden
I'0 displace .Mr. Osborne Is Intended to
'' 'I'M I. I"" lls chief, Oov. Whitman,
thinks It Is temporary. Mr. Osborne
lawyer mlK.Tuw.nW'-tial .
lawyer, are quite sure he still If oitual
fl-.ih lur nimseir uius;
.iu-l now 1 tnuiK i snouui urge .Air. us-
bonie's lelustatement
i. in- is a.tuii..-u,
hut you (.iiiuut tell what mlliht hapiell
III the futuie."
At any rate .Mr. Osborne left the
prison at . -30 yestetday afternoon for
Auburn, Jut thirteen- mouths to u day
sine., he arrived lo liecome warden nnd
Just ono hour befoie Dean Klrchwey :ir
rlveil to take charge. It was live mill
mites after he had entered the warden's
cilice that IV. in Klichuey i;uve hl opin
ion of his present status.
Osborne ires One letory.
It Ls ci Main that Mr. Osborne con
siders the appointment of Dean Klrch
wey us a victory. llesldes his belief
that his friend l In charge only tem
porarily Mr. Osborne believes that It Is
a victory to have appointed one who Is
In sympathy with hi Mutual Welfare
League and prison reform In general.
The convicts' themelves are glad that
Dean Klrchwty Is the man selected. If
any one must replace Mr. Oeborne, and
it Is likely that his choice bus averted
an outbreak.
Although Deai Klrchwey thinks some
changes might well be made nt Sing
Sing, generally speaking he does not
Intend to make any startling Innova
tions at once. It Is certain the leasue
will remain.
The new warden will carry out Supt.
Itlley's Ideas for Sing Sing as far as
possible. "It shall be a very dutiful
sulwrdlnatc," lie snld. He may also In
troduce Much Ideas of his own as medical
examination and segregation of defec
tives to prevent Immorality, an expansion
of the workshops and educational classes
and greater facilities for kecking the
convicts busy. As n nmtter of fact.
Warden Klrchwey doesn't approve of
Sing Sing as anything but u deten
tion prison. He thinks It la no place
for long termers to be Immured In,
Warden Klrchwey did nothing start- J
ling to signalize his arrival. He simply
in ... " . ....... .. e ...te
slionV li.nnls :tll nroilnit. To.iluv nf f 1
- , -- v
New Year's celebration of the convicts
he will make his first address lo them.
Ones Out I.Ike n I, Ion,
Mr. Osborne's departure was In marked
contrast He went out like a Hon, where
Dean Klrchwey came in Ilko n lamb.
After nn effusive reception from the
convicts In which he was cheered and
cheered ugnln because of the victory
every one thinks he has won In being
only temnornrllv relieved, and bv Dean I
Klrchwey at that, Mr. Ostwrne repaired I
to the mess hall, where he bade fare
well to his "boys." Tlie mess hall nnd
the rest of the prison had been deco
rited with dags and bunting as part
of the celebration.
"I have come back from Albany bear
ing peace with honor," he said. "I
am still warden of Sing Sing. Dean
Iv lre1tU' Is lllA Hfll Isf Iff nrv luirinn
whom 1 recommended to Supt. Itllny anrtitl0 "" which Hi" American Government
his cmplnimient n acting
warden during
my tempornrj disability Is a sallsfac-
ton solution to all concerned. 1
When I come hick to sou ll won't'
be necessary to come back as warden. '
became Dean Klrchwey can do all the
wiirdenlng: so when I come back I
will help Warden Klrchwey nil I cm.,"1011 the racts. can tHUe a true li.il
and when I come among you we will
shake hands Just like pale.
There were some doubts alut ,h
In the minds of home convicts, who
thought the warden meant ho wasn't
going to be warden at nil nnv more
but others look It thai he meant It
to apply only to the time he ls absent
preparing his case nnd while he Is on
trial.
There was a great outburst of cheer
ing when Mr. Osborne finished and there
were shouts of encouragement nnd
promises that the Ixiys would lie good
for Warden Klrohwey and not Imperil
the reputation of the Mutual Welfare
Leigue. Amid this cheering Mr. ()s-
borne departed, accompanied bv his
faithful bodyguards, Harry Ho'l.iskev
and Dick Itlchurds. He took dinner at
the Hotel Ilelmont and left for Au
burn -at S o'clock. Ho will appear to
plead In White Plaln.to-morrow.
FIRM STAND BY RILEY.
Klrchnev's Commission Made Out
ns If Permanent,
Ai.hant, N. Y Dec. 31, (leorge W.
v renwev. woo . 10 .viuany on
"'u'"...,, " n.VwTe?Ji
Thomas Mott Oshorn'a's prison refoxm
.i..a.. ... VTa... V.I.I. nl... I... ... ll
, '; ..',.;; . ris, n i. :' .V, .,; .'?.M ","'lnnd Austrla-lltingaty Is now to claim
his commission ns waiden lo succeed
Mr. Oshorue nt Sing Sing In his pockot.
Warden Otisirne and his counsel,
fleorge (iordon Ilattle, left Albany on An
.1- eoiioolsslon ns ..!.... i . - 2 i
early Iniln this morning for New York
..lie nffee Warden Oslsirne hn.l
Induced to nsk for leave of absenco fiom I
his duties ns warden until the conclu.
slnu of his tiial mi the Indictments
found by the Westchester county (Irand
Jury,
Waiden Osborne expected that Dean
Klrchwey would be appointed nrtlnir
warden nf Slug Sing only pending the,
dlmrfn-ltlon of the Indictment. r,i,v.
Whitman also seemed to think thnt Dean
Iiinln
' I" --'-. . .... uimri
a piovlslon of Hi? prison law, but Pupt.
Illley to-day siniolnted Dean Klrchwey,
not as Hie acting, but as permanent
ConK-mcd on Lait Pagt.
NO MAIL FREE FROM
I BRITISH CENSORSHIP
CJovpi'iiinent. Member So Snys
lieirdhin- Xpw Contro
vprsy With V. S.
AM. PAHCKLS SEA ll(.'HEI)
This Hole. Dpnlin With Ton
Irnliiinil. Ilaseil on Unfile
Deeision.
.'pteml Vnhtr rrtittrfi lo Tin 5rv
LoNtstN, Deo. 31. I'nicels. whether
sent by patcel po-l or by letter post,
laln contraband may be i oiiflscated,
Klrst class letter mall cat lied by lieu
ttal steamshls which voluntarily slop
at Kngll-h portn o.ne- under the English
municipal law and is thus l,abl to 1-,
opened and subjecled to cx.unlli.Hkin by
the icnsor as ordinary mall entering
and leavliw Kngland Is ctlisoicd.
Tlie vexed -nestlon of mail slopppges
was thus explained .o TMB SfN cone-
-Poii.lrnt by a member of the tiovern-'
. .. .. ... '
iirunKinuieu ny post aie 101 eimiie.i 10
u (snuaining i-onir.iuan.i, 10 coiiusciiiion.
invi i ri.-,.-in ..........
tlun no protection was given to iiostai
?Uu.' deu
cl.ius cleailj Hiql Hits to sucn iiiatter,
At the meeting on September II .in
Italian delegate- askivl Heir Krb-ger, the
Jerniau who Intrixluced the resolution,
whether the project Included both parcel
and letter post. Ilerr Krltger replied
and letter post. Ilerr krhger replied
. . . ... . i.
. .. .
prUlleged treatment. I
We can see at once that this must
be so," sold the Kngllsh authority to
day, "or belligerents would lose all
rights In u blockade and during n war.
Kvery ship which we have examined
contained great quantities of contraband
goods, principally rubber, shlp-d by
parcel post. Whether the goods are sent
by parcel or letter post does not niter
the situation, as we Insist that a par
cel Is a parcel und a letter ls a letter.
"The protection gtvvn to letters, while
It does not Interfere with the right of
search, is absolute except for letters
directed to some blockaded port. Again,
If a vessel voluntarily conns to some
Kligtlsh port she then becomes subject
to Kugllsh law nnd we exercise the
right of censorship. Otherwise docu
ments containing Information of vital
Interest to the enemy could puss by our
own ships through our own domains
and we would be unable to Interfere with
them. lly ships coming voluntarily
Into KnglUh territorial waters we mean
ships like those of the Holland-America
Line, which come to Falmouth of
their own free will. We do not mean
ships which we take to ports like Kirk
wail for purposes of search, In the
latter case letters are Inviolate. We
do not Interfere with them, but only
with parcels.
Asked If the teiions were true that
Ilelgian ljonds sent from the .tilted I
States had been held up this authority
said he wis not aware of any such ac-1
(f ,' )r of ,Mri.fls mnilu difference h
lion. AsKeu tr tin registration or iet-
replied in the negative Asked what the'
ijUVernment tiroposed to i n regard ng
. ... . . ....... ... .....
i ne H.-I iiiiiL 01 iiuwueren 11111K to i er-.
man baliles lie replied that tlie rnlted ,
States has niadti no representations on ,,.Hire, M le President, to convey my
these jKilnts and the policy of the llrlt- j emnesi hopes thnt vou will enjoy health
lh Government Is to "wait nnd see' 1 , Hlrengtli necessary to enable you
what the I'nlted Slates propoes to do. t f ui tl I your exalted duties.
Sweden's action In holding up malls j "Our two countries are united In com
the authority held to be Indefensible be-1 mol, ,vu, our allies In tlie prosecution
cause t Is based purely oil reprisals, If I f Kr,..lt cause, and It Is a source nf
slivodri reiit.MPMtil that hep rlirhts li.nl 1
: - ,' , i , , . , -
l-'.'ls .,fV nB", ""-''V 1l"'rl'a"' ,' '
Justified In adopting reprisal", he said. ,
nut Migiaiid nan not iiirringe.1 u.on any i
of her rights.
He isilnted old that
Sweden clslms the frame domestic rights
of censorship of parcels in transit as
noes r.ngiann, nut answered una argu-
mem ny saying inai sneoeii n.ise. ner.you preside nnd nn expression of mv 1
r.itton nnrflv nn flu. i;rnlltltl .if reiiels.its
iii. ii . . iV ,
The Manchester (.-londlaii referring to
the matter to-day says:
.11 ' " 7 '""
, i'L I , , ' i, i'""
"n! already argued so voluminously an I
"' cleverl, about the validity of the
March Orders In Council.'
""crilinn hopes the Foreign Of-
"er n"' lw "'loueil a free hand to deal
wl,n ,h" l"'tl'. and asserts that "only
t'"" Foreign orilce, which Is In posses.
,111.111 .O Vile mcin, i-nii -iiiur ,i nue i.i.
""' i.. .i. i i
neutrals, .vthlcli might re.lonn.1 to
upon
our deti Iment. and the actual Injury dm,, ,
10 ine enemy tiv ine iouoai?a or inis
trade."
SAYS BRITAIN HITS U. S.
Attitude 011 .Milk Milpmcnt Is to
Thnt llffect, Sn Dr. 1011 .Much.
In commenting on fireat Hrltnln's
tentative refusal to accede to the re-
quest of Secie ary of State Lansing for
safe ransportatlon of American con.
deused milk and 1, Ik products 10 Cer-
many nnd Austria-Hungary Dr. lMmtind
von Much, executive chairman of the
Citizens' Committee lor Food Shipment,
surd i
"It was only nfter uncontrovertible
representations of actual milk condi
tions In tho rentlal empires had been
mod." to Secretary Lansing that he. took
the matter up with our Ambafsadnrs to
ICngland nnd France.
"Milk conditions have grown worse In
Oermiiny In tlio list two months, the
shortage belnm largely dun to the com
plete sjoppago of the AnicrR'an cotton
seed meal export.
.. .., i,H.,.i fiee .,1 .u.
of blockade avowedly undertHke,, to
st li ve th" civil population of (lermnny
olllclally Hint even the milk Mipply Is
ailequate for every one Ihen It would
eem Hint the only practical tffect of
the blm kado had been to destroy Ainerl
'?,
I ' ,r"
. 77Z.ZTZZZ.
GERMANS PLACATE FLEMINGS.
lattlrr's l.iinunngr lo lie Used
tlnlverslly nf Client,
In
ni:ni.lN, bv wireless lo Sayvllle. L. I., I
Dec. 31
i ne university of Ohent la to
be transformed Into n Flemish Instltii. I
tlon by order ot (lovernoi'.tlenenil von
i.iiuiui ... null: in.- I" iriiiinu imi,lttHH
use1 In the uidveislt) have been made
Blrrc 1S10, Three Imiguage are s-sikcn
In Belalum-sFrench, l-'lemlsli and Wal
loon. Ohent Is the centre .if the Flemish
Speaking population.
, HOME SECRETARY
: OUT OF CABINET?
Sir Jolni Simon's Ilpsignntion
Iteported in Hands of
Premier.
OTIIEHS MA V FOLLOW
flush on Conscription lu
Milved hy Fourth Session
of Ministry.
"iitriit 'tiMe Ittipatch to Tlir Six
I.OS'rov. Jiin. 1 f KMimbiv! The Clh-
j , ,,,,, '.u. ,,, ,hN
,.Hi, called to dlscuis the situation arls.
, ,K fmt fii,nre of I Vrthv.
enlistment campaign. Here held yester-
da. The fulluic of (eil.iln members to
attend gave ile lo speculation as to
llieir probable reslgnntluns.
Tt... t..lt.. .... .....I I - .. I tUim
,. 'that Sir John Simon, See-
r, ta.y of Sta.e for Home A(Tal,s. has
actually precnted his resignation to l're-
r Asqulth. Ills withdrawal from the
Cabinet had been pieillcted because of
,OI1 ,M)1c
111m iiittiny t ...i , n thm I.p... .nn.fl( n.
ri,e fear was expressed on Thursday
JhM Walter It'unclman. Resident of the
lloan of Trade, who had failed to attend
iMiiuin, I'lesldent of tlie
.r, I(Kh chancellor; Sir IMuiird (!rev.
,nK,t wllhdraw from the fiovernment.
,ul ,rse nave not lieeli ruinileil.
n, ri.,.i mi.., ,.f mi- ii,
W""", "T !l m'.r"rl!""- i'" 11
ntuif, Thursday that aUeiice from
,, ,IImiK'B c.ibl.iet meeting would be
i,.n as Indlcutluir an intentlun to leuvn
die Cabinet.
According to the
,.iiiHa .,,.,,.
n.,11,1 t'lnr,. .tleel-
..nltles amino? tin, tumlirs nf ft... f'.ti'.
- -
ermnem were so rsr comifos-n yesieruay .
lha. reslsnatUms of the Karl of
selU.rn,, '..reslil..,.. of .he of Aell
culture, and Karl Ciirzon. Ird of the'
I'rlvy Seal, are now unlikely. Thee
meii, as well as one or two other Cab. i
Inet members, have Iwen demanding out
and out conscription.
Sir John Simon ar.d Sir Thomas
Strong, I'rlvy Councillor, both outspoken
suiqsirters of the voluntary system, have
been on the drafting committee named to
ill aw up the hill providing for compul
sion. The Dully .Veic. uinf .emler be
lieves the resignation of Arthur Hender
on, President of the Hoard of Kducntlon,
Is polhle. It Is believed that 111 Ills two
speeches at lalKir meetings Thursday he
urged acceptance of the Government's
plan.
The Dublin correspondent cf the Times
predicts trouble if Ireland ui excluded
rrom the operations1 of the compulsion
bill. He pays tlie Irish Unionists will
protest agnlnt exclusion, and that Sir
Kdward Carson, leader of the Irish
Cnlonlst party, will make an emphatic
wtatemeui of their views In Parliament.
The exclusion of Ireland, the eorre-
"pondent believes, would give the op
ponents of home rule a powerful argu
ment against that policy nnd would place
Nationalist themselves In a difficult
situation.
GEORGE V. PREDICTS VICTORY
.
en lfnr l. reeling lo I'rrneh
I'reslilenl line of ronrlilelK-e.
Uiniio.v, De. 31 King fleorge has
rent the following inessaKe to President
' niiMM.iiih insuKe 10 j resioeni
i,.i. ..... ..r .v.nM.
"At the rnniiucncrment of n new ve.ir
....... 1 1 ... . . . ... ... . .... ..
iiiiiiuiuiK mourn iiiion to iiih inni tlio
two peoples are bound together by ties ,
,,,.h the heroism and sacrifices of our
K.,,lnt M.hliers and sailors have ren-1
,ereil indissoluble.
.. )h.b m, to nocept on behalf of
mV!!p,r nmI ,y empire most cordial '
.'reetlncs lo the trreat m.ilm, over ,.1,11, '
.. ....... i i ... ... . I w
i .. .. . - i
nei p noillirntioil lor ine spiena III oua
,of) ()f thf, lln(I ,, fn f
France, which have been In this war of
sucn inestnnniiie vnlue and which offer
a sure guarantee or ultimate victory.
NEW PASSPORTS T0-M0RR0W.
Const l.ltiers Vol to r Wnlchcii
( Inset j Otersen Ships.
The new passport i tiles, which go Into
effect tn-mnrmw. will not b Mrletlv en.
... .. . -
forced. It was raid bv some teontsiiin
'V" ( '"'KTila. on lines plying between
l ana i"; ' est 1 no icnnuda
" '
Munson Line wl, ,e had learned from
Washington that the regulation woihl
not nlTed paixengers to Cuba. The
IJiiehee Steamship Company vv til not ie
null" Its pissengers to Itertmida to oh
tain p'iss-sits unless Washington or
ders It. which the company's olllcers
doubt
WIIIHm W I.e Mat. assistant chief
if the bureau of I'ltlcnship, who Is here
... -.I... 1... .1. lu..,l.w... A.
mM V,(jt on Monday a rigid spciron
()f ., )(.ts of persi.ns s. llnTg on
antic, liners .nild beg,
.vindications for ,,,,... ,;.,.. v..
made live days before the date 011 which
the applicant exiaets to sail. Applica
tion must bo aivompanled by three
photographs of the applicant, who must j
tell what countries he expects to villi
nnd why.
GERMAN EXCHANGE DROPS,
liistrla ii
('rim na ll,, Knll-
Fnr-
liter Decline llxpeeteil
HkiiN. via Paris, Dec. 31, The rate of
el.,... Ine It.mimi ..n.l A I.. .. ..... 1
exchange lor Herman and Austrian ..nr.
'eney him fallen ngnln. and in llnanclnl
circles n is predicted mat the next
few days will see a still gi liter decline,
T'.ie price of 100 murks wus minted In
day al JH.j franc, nnd that of 100 Aus.
train gold itowns al li.Mj francs.
The Vienna nobt olllce Iuik llxea ii.m
Kile of exchange for Kistli rdeia at 141
ciowns fur lmj Hermiin minks mid 1 13
ciowns for inn Swiss francs,
Tivu Desert In Aeroplane,
Paiuh, Dee. 111. A (lernian aviator,
n Lieutenant, deserted with hU me
chanic, say the Calais rot respondent nf
the f,'.rcli', mid took the aeroplane
win mem
Tlm aviators
Hew over the iio.,.i.
I r mi4 , v,,Jv. J " '
itCr m iar5- Mb,Ul;
lsiider, pasting throw
;. ,.0X" ...J:. "0" lamed 1
nt Aaidcnliuis. They
have been In-
tei'lied Hi Flushing.
iieiiei.iiia neerKMii i arm hstisugr, ,
They com inure, uy mem mm .... ,y. .
Mf.de at the Parin, Southburuugh, Mass
,iei
William Waldorf Astor
Is Made
Lord flmrles Hpresford, Lord
Ciirzon mid Sir Thomns
Sliiiiitrliiifssy Honored
'ON FEW HA HON ETC Y
ON ADMIRAL ST fit I) EE
tfpfcidt 'libit triHitrh lo THt Set.
I.onm)N, Jan, 1 (Salurd:iy). Among
the New Yeur'M honors nnnounced In
the- llntrttr to-day Is Uto clnvatlon to
a barony of William Waldorf Astor.
America lis will bo Interested olso In
thp creation of Ixird tieorgc Nathaniel
Ciirzon of Kedleiton - n Knight of
the tinrtcr, lnv.iuse tin; late Lady Cur
zon was Miss Mary l.elter of Chicago.
Irl Ciirzon was Viceroy of India
from 1S99 to l'lOC. Tlio Dtike of
, Devonshire- waa nl-o made -a Knight
of Warier. This Is one of the
most exclusive of ull JJrltMi dlstlnc
I "u" , , ..
.1
"' "tr,ZZt.
, , , ; ................
10 assess iaims jot snips requisitioned
by the llrltlsh Government, becomes
a Viscount,
Haronles aro conferred also on
.. ,, , '. V,, ,
Lord t liarles Heresford. Sir Thomns
Miuuglmessy and David Alfred
Thomas. Ind Charles Ileresford. per-
hnps the must distinguished uf Hrlttsh
naval llgures, has commanded the
. - M' - 'Ht - rranean and Channel Meets. He
rti,.i f ..- ,.,
, "''" rlrwl four ears ago.
. 'Jiher recipients of baronies are Sir
.Alexander Henderson und Cupl, Cecil
I Wlllbmi N.o-r.m
' li I'll....,,. L'l....i,H...u i. -
... i iti'tiiiir .?iiii ii ,4 it iies . vt mi us
knighted In I ml wis w,mi in Mil
... h, " " " . 1 U1, . b0.rn . X"U
a l prestuem or tile Cnna-
I"'"1 1 m"lc -"rofttl. David Alfred
"Humus, member of nn Important tlrm
"f coal dealers, went to the I'nlted
States nnd Canada 11 few months ago
us special agent of David Lloyd
George. Minister of Munitions, for the
purchafe of supplies for the Allies.
llaronetcles were conferred on Hear
Admiral Sir Frederick Charles Sturdee,
hero of the Falkland Islands battle of
DevemlKT !, 1SH: Sir William K.
Goschen. Sir Charles Johnston and A.
A. Booth, chairman of the Cunard
Line. Sir Frederick Sturdee. who en-
tered the navy In IS71 ami beenme a
Hear Admiral In lflOf, won several
decorations In the Kgyptlan war of
1581 ana was decorated again In ISVV.
when he commanded the Hrltlsh force'
In Samoa. - j
-i,i- wmi. , .. .. ."
-jnc i-nvy councillors named In
.,..,. A " .. rTa-
". r ..v. . .
'ciilr 4,111111111), i rooKS le irio Km.nm
Itbor party lender to be made a mem-
BRITISH CRUISER NATAL
SUNK IN PORT; 325 PERISH
Wrecked by "Internal Explosion," According to Ad
miralty Report, Which Is Made a Day Late
Worst Naval Loss Since May.
London, Dec, SI. The Hrltlsh crul'er
Natal was sunk yesterday while ng at I
anchor In port. More than .100 lives.
-
were lost. An official statement from
,i, A.imlMli,. ,..!,.. .i,o .
- V.
after all ihsh of the accident had been
suppressed for twenty. four hour:
lug an Investigation Into the cai
urs pend-
r,"1":: '
.. . .
' ......--..v.. ,.u.
wn Hikiit in inn m nm "I.- n n(..i.ni
'
explosion." ,
As a result of tho Admlrany s lnte-
J '"
tignimn it is Known tnut no) of tlie '
cruisers complement, or Tl'S men were
eaw'd Man), If not all of these, were
ashore at the time of the disaster. The
loss of life Is, therefore, Islleved to be
32.1 men.
The Natal Is the third II. itili war
I vessel lo he sunk by an internal e.
plosion while lying In haibor. The tlit
w is the battlehlp llulwark. blown up In
Sheernes Harbor on November fin. ,
with a loss of about S00 lives. On .May
27 last the converted cruiser Pnneess
liene wns destro)ed In the same manner
ill the same harlMir .with a Ins of alsuit
3M0 live-. She was llterall) blown to!
bits, nnd none of those on board hei at1
the time escaped. It was rumored at
the time that (lernian spies had cvi-ed 1
her destruetlon. hut the eaue w.i never
announced. In addition pi the.e tli-en
llm Ittitlsh navv lo.t itn. inn hi..l.
I'oimldable on New Yeir'
H..";.'. VA' .'
In the l'ngll"h Channel. Ii
nas otiii 1
SIX FOOT SNOW IN ARIZONA. '
('rent Morni Ties I'll Trnln ser lee I
lit
Present I,
Los ,.nt.ki.i:h
Deo. 31. Atvonllng to
telegraph le
legraphlc advices r.-cclve.l here to- 1
ghl. the greatest Miow storm In the '
story of western and central Arlona i
ul
history
swept that suction to-day and to-night Is
continuing unabated.
Tlu snow, which has fallen contlnu
ously for niorii than foity-.igli. hour;
hHH reached a depth of from three In six
feet lit ProS-Nltt. StfllUI .Hill 1'll'CtrlC
train service theie has been cancelled
nnd may not resume fur two weeks.
At Flagstaff the Majestic Opera House
cnlluiwvd under the weight of Hie snow.
.Miiny inner roois iiuckicii. Tin- snow
iw
fall measured llfly-two Inches on the i
Uvcl.
Weather forecasts lucdl.'t a con'
Hation of the storm
twenty-four hours.
for another
KANSAS TO BURN LAST BONDS.
Issue or II I. '.tl. 0011 Will (ill I l In
Smoke To-ilny.
Topkka. Kan., Dec. 31. -The last of
the State bonds, an Issue of 1,V,),000, will
1,0 ''umed to-morrow nt n public recep.
" ,1"' olllco of the Slate Treasurer. '
S""r 01"l;,,,, wl" '"" ,.lt l"'"" "'" .
1,,'atlot. of the cancela.tlon of the lasi
stale debt.
I Former State ottlclalH who signed the
bonds will be Invited to partMp.ite, The
imnilH to he hnrntsl were Im.hi... I imu
!'."'' JL' ril..i, .u . . V .
"'e authorisation of the t.egll.itiire of
in", iui i imi'iiiif, juii jiupcb.
a British Peer
William Waldorf Astor.
ber of tlie Privy Council, which theo
retically consists of tlio ICIng's spe
cial fdvlsers.
Included In to-day's orders was the
elevation of Thomas Ileechum, tlm
opera Impresario, to a knighthood.
William Waldorf Astor was born In
N'"' York In IMS, the son of John Jacob
1 Astor In I S S he married Miss Mary
i l1,,i1!,,f .V" two T" "l"1 .a
I daughter He was u memb'r of the
york stllt(. legislature twice and
was American Minister to Itnlv from
IS2 until IS.:,. l-our y.-.irs later he
'"'t the rnlted States to live in Kng.
iiinti, iiecomlug a naturalized I.ngllsh
man. This s tlie ilrst time a man of Ameri
can luith has been creati1"! n llrltlsh
peer. It is generally known that It has
always b i Mr. Astor's ambition to be
raised to the llrltlsh nobility.
Mi Astor's real estate holdings In New
York are estimated at tOO.niirt.oun, The
Astors weie the first to introduce In the
I.'r.ltcd St'ates the custom of leaving
the bulk of the estate to the oldest son.
Tor the nominal sum of Jl dollar Will
lam Waldorf Astor transferred In 1911
his share of the Waldorf-Astoria Hotel
to his eldest Hon, thus evading the In
htritanc. tax In the case of his death.
The lal.mee of the estate In New York,
It Is understood, Is also being gradually
transferred.
Waldorf Astor. Mr. Astor's on. Is n
number of Parliament from Plymouth
at.d editor of the 'n Mull (n:rtir. He
Is a Lieutenant In the Itoynl Life Guards
and Is chief aide de oamp of Sir Charles
iou'r
1
CZAR BRITISH MARSHAL.
II u as Inn Kmperor's Appointment a
w Year's Honor.
fprflat Cable Detpateh la Tun St v.
I.OMM1N-. Dec. .11 Tl... n , j...
aniiounced u n mwll v...'. i'...
the ainolntment of Kmnernr xi.i,'i,. n
. . .. : ..
"I
Hussla as a Field Marshal In the
llrlti-h army
stated that she was sunk by a
submarine or perhaps b an'
(lernian
"internal
ii. lo"-
,... ,. x.
...vere n vl wJL ? .Xa". th n
Mr " ini"i 1h" n h.lch u, "rlttfH hnve
; '"' several months. No !m
sweral
l",r,ant mmi-of.war has been sunk since
!h,, Tr1l,l'Ih 'i'I the MaJ-stlc we,,,' tr.
p.'doed at the Dardanelles last Mav Th
,N''.!"1' ! " f.'ct that she Xas
..' " "
..... .." ngo ami .is only
wltr... v inutrii line
nu. iiip mz nr rn.t l.inrnt n-i.i .t.
i i , i "
''"J'', yacolls ''''T'1 ' l"worfut lighting
, '. . , , ''""''"iient was UM
ld n V' '" ", ' 1" leu
' aou ii oeam or 73 Tret Th.. .,..
I tuns .she carried were ! I Inch, of wliidi
she had three fits ward an, thtee, aft
Mie was also armi'd with four 7.r, Inch
Runs, twenty.four three poumleis :,nd
three torpedo tubes,
: r1r"1"-'; - seen in New Vo, k in
Ifll., when si,., brought to this country
the body f Vilelii, llel.l l.i. ,. i
, n''?r ,r' " I'rltaln. she
.'.111 .Olli.'iui.n.l.n ... .. '...... .
' ' l'rt two weeks.
-
SINK FRENCH SUHM ARI ' F
ww-'1-'
t umMiiiis i .
"' "u""'e Kestrnellon
"t the Vloiiuc.
Hkiii.in, hy wiieless 10 ,,,.10. 1,
31.- Thp " ''V ' ' ?'"
been sunk. stiiimarine Monge has
Arrnr.to'o. 1,. ., .n... .1 . . .
- "" busman
-.r '"in llot.lU a.k the submarine las.
we.in.'s.l.iv.
BONUS FOR 14,000 WORKERS.
L'n I u in,.
mill Heel, i Ml f'tif III
Per I cut, i:r.
nien w'-ismo o, . h. i . ',A,".'01,"",
p, He, A m Inil i" .m ' '"""'
L iVrv Jl .V " M", '""' "' -'!''
1 II.I'IIIIT, Mich., Dee
l
""' ."iii inniing com, iin.es
.oai, online rrom to-morrow, a; em
ihi)ee will get n honus e n li month of
' in per cent of th If earnings til! .hilv ,
, J-oiirteen thousand men, t a'o.thiids o'
the total numiier of thou unjioied in
Hilling noili In Uni diKtinl, are affected
The Calumet nnd Ilecl.i u e.timie( to
; oe mai.mg sa a share
-t cent
copper inn i ki t.
Tin Aloliinvl.
U'oheilne Mining
I ..!., ... . .
' : "' , , ' ' . "'',,i P ' ,
" - I'vi IT I, OO 11S
pacn m.uiHi m , uh. Tim i'n ,..i
and llccl'i ompinles me underi-loo.l to
hnve, their proilnctlon up to July
SEVEN STATES JOIN DRYS.
More Th ii ii .'1,(111(1 saloons and
Mnny llrevr.Tles WlneA Hr,
Citicvoo, Dec 31.--Seven uiore States
Joined the drj eoltinin at mi.lniiiht and
more than .i.mm Kalrsms. manv hi. we ci
'nslllle,,,.. ne.it out of bus,,,, '
Tile Slates, which enteicl tlie die
lOliimu am low.i, Colorado, On.'.iu. .
astiltiRton, Idaho, Srkanj-ns ami South
Carolina. Many counties ,n all of the
reven Stntes hive prohibited the sale of'
ll'liinr for n titimbcr of .sears under local
option laws, '
AUSTRIAN NOTE
ENDS ALL FEAR
OF A RUPTURE
Expected Also to Lend to
Quick Settlement oC ,
Lusitaniii Case.
I'AKT OF OFFICIAL "
I.EPLY KKACIIKS U. 8.
Dual Monarchy Has Met
American Demands, la
Washington View.
COPY OF MKSSAHK TO
BE SENT TO WILSON
Captain Punished for Noti
Considering Panic on
Liner.
Washington, Dec. 31. I'.egnrded in
American Ircles as marking a ub.
Htantlal compliance with the demanda
of the American (lovernmcnt, nn offi
cial resume of Austria's note Is now
before the Department of State.
First Instalments of the luHual text
j of the comnumk-atlon began to arrive
j eurly to-day, but though these lnstal-
ments when decoded were in accord
wun ine press, extracts cnincu rrom
Ijondon last night, the entire text wan
not expected to be In slrtpe for exam
ination before to-morrow morning.
A copy of tho resume from Ambas
sador Penfleld was forwarded to-day
to tho President at Hot Springs and
u copy of the note Itself will be sent
on as soon as available. I'nles con
trary Instructions are received from
the President the note probably will be
mado public to-morrow.
Among otrUialri nf the Stale Ilrpsrt
mrnl who bale examined the realms
and the decoded portions of Hie reply
Itself the opinion Is expressed that be
ruuse of the ronrrsslnns grunted Aus
tria has rcnim nt all prosper! nf
break In diplomatic relations bet net a
the two countries.
I.nsltnnln ( use Too,
It Is now belleu-d both ut the De
partment und In Tcutonl- Embassy
circles that before the txplrallon of
another fortnight not only will the An
cona incident be In the proccHH of final
adjustment but that the United State
and fiermatiy will have come to a Unal
nnd satisfactory iindersts'idlng lor a
settlement of the l.usltntila contro
versy.
Count von Hentstnrrf, who worked
tireliesly throughout the Atnnita crisis
to avert a break, had a twenty mlnut
conference to-day wtlh Sccictary Litis.
Ing. The conft rence, which was of a
oirill.il eh.iraoter, idat.-d to the Lml.
taulii negotiations.
Although It Is undei stood thai ,ur..
on Hernstortf was tin i hie to present,
the Dual instructions of his (iovern use'
he was able to iiKsure tile Secretnrj tha'
(lerniany ls dtslroiis of closing the :iego
t.ilions by an agree lent to j .. t v an
Indemnity for the loss of A n.-r u, :
and while not technically disavowing tl.s
attack to gilt, such an impression of
Hgrets and assnraint as will , .satis
fa. toiy to the American (ioveiun.-'nt
The Ambassador is undei .-loisl lo h. .
esiies-ed to the Sisretarj hi gratillc.i
tarn mer tlie content of the Austrian
t.otc, a resume of whuii lie i l
f i mil If', lin early this moriiinK. aid to
hae assured the Sei.it.ny that n was
tin carniM Ml'h of I lie i iovei'ii uient that
the friendly lelatious betwien the l'n ted
Stales and the llolei irncnt of Austria
remain unbroken.
He is al.-o understi'iiil ' I a e . ..
lii'.-eil tlie nope 1 1 i.i I the 1 toted .sta'ei
would llud no i!ll!!i'ttlt nt n.'ieiit.iic the
AuMiiau note as a saLsfa. tory toiupi.
aiue with the Amcr.cuii d.-iu.i nd
PleiiMint surprise,
Although Sectetary Lansing i, w tn
li.ildlng cotruient until In his ,
oppoitunlti to thoroughl) dige-t tin,
oi, tents of the note, nlll, i.il- nf in..
l'ep.iilmi'iit i loeely u.sociiteil w.th Inni
diilarc.l ln.it they wcro pl.asan;! mu
pused our tlie rx'ent to win li th
A list rl in iioevnmeii: has gone , i e
ihc demaiid "( the I'nlted Stales w h ..
the lel.ef I- evplcsscil that fill tm
icspondeiice -a .11 ensue bl'tteen lin
(loin mints, the fiellng 'hat tue cut
h.i- cut t ! passed.
11) . IT. ring Indemnity .n d anicoiuc ny
that It has punished the ViiMrlin s,
m. ll nn- lommatid.'r the Vue'rian liovei
incut In the opinion if mil. ias ,,f m.i
I lepai t nieut ho m v n ill) concedeil
what wn' denial. led of lur
The AlllC'li'.iU ileninllib -el fo til '.'
the note of I leeeiii'n l' ! .Ill, I teitrialeil
In the second tiitl i of I ie ember li wi
that the usiruiu Unlet ntnriit flci'
"ilctiontli'e tie. .-nil. log of the Ancona .is
11 it Illegal ai.d I'lil.tenstlile net, tint 1)11
Olt'eer llil pe-pel rati .1 tl.e .le, .1 Is. pi. .
lehi'd mid that e.iar i. 'nn hy the pi .
Incut of an .ti.li n.i.My lie mad" fo. ' '
citizens of the I'nlted States who wie
killid or tnlurcd by the attack mi "if
vessel."
Ilitsls for Demands.
Tin' e ilitniliils wore based, Aim on
tlm evidence t old lined In the olll al
statement "f the iiHrl.in ,inili.ity
Issued slionb nfter the ship wim mink,
and. M'Coiii1I, mi ..Jlld.ii it obtained by
Ann" lean lepiesi ntntlicH in Italy f: .ni
nirvivors of the l.uer.
The A.lnnialtv etnteineni de. lared tint
t&9 Aisuoim when ol'diiid lo stop tlitS
to escape; that t-ei.-ial ihols pad to bn
llred al the vessel b.fote she hauled to.
thai after waiting forty-tlve minutes,
dilioig which the t lew nf the Anconi
left the passengers to their fate and oi Jj'
clipicd most of tlie pfebiti s, tin' .ii'i-
n.ariiic oti the ipptoi. ii .if .
steamer wns ..:ii. I t.. .t
Illlll toipedo Hie Pin r I' m .'Ii , ,. if
th ' P.ISHI llgel wi t. I i ,i . . ill
After niiiahei im ii, , . ,
hUittinenl ifaul, tliu liner an I, Altlio
.1
1
si
I"
I
i
