rr
.7
DAILY TIME
THE
BARRE
JvQL. XIX NO! 246.
LINER
BAKRE, VERMONT, SATURDAY, JANUARY 1, 1916.
PRICE,. ONE CENT.
t PERSIA
SUNK
GERMANS SHOWED ENTERPRISE
J
Most of the Passengers and
Crew of British Vessel Are
Believed to Have Been
Lost, as Only Four Boats
Got Clear Before the Big
Vessel Went Down
v;
AMERICAN CONSUL
MAY BE LOST
Jr
v
Two Other Americans Were
Aboard the Ship When
She Left London for Bom
bay, but Some of Them
Were Landed at Three
Points
London. Ian. i. The British liner
Persia was sunk at i o'clock Thursday
afternoon and most of her passengers
and crew were lost. Robert McNeely,
American onsul at Aden, Arabia, was a
passenger on the steamer. A message to
Lloyd's says that only four boats got
clear before the Persia sank. The mea
sage says that the vessel was en route
fwm London to Bombay.
vfci addition to Consul McNeely, two
i otVfr Americans are known to have been
. passengers on the Persia when she left
I London. Charles H. Grant was on his
way to Bombay, and Edward Rose, a
school boy, was on his way from Denver
to Gibraltar. Rose probably landed at
Gibraltar and was not on board the boat
when she sank.
The Peninsular and Oriental line,
which controlled,, the Persia, estimates
that 160 passengers sailed from London,
A number of these, however, landed at
Gibraltar, Marseilles or Malta; but how
many is not known officially.
In addition to the passengers who
sailed from London, a large number em
barked at Marseilles. The total booked
at these points was 231, of which 87 were
L - women and 25. were children. Lord Mon
v tague was on the passenger list,
i Persia Was Torpedoed.
.Washington, D. C, Jan. t. Official
despatches from London to-day said the
Persia was torpedoed and sunk while
approaching Alexandria and that nearly
,fr perished. ' ,j
By Constructing Railroad Line Trough
the Argonnes Swamps.
In the Argonnes, France, .Tan. 1.
"All aboard lor Bagdad." Such was
the humorous suggestion of a sprightly
German officer as the tiny engine on
the Argoniiri's railway whistled for its
its departure.
From the Argonnes to Bagdad is quite
a stretch, even for the imagination, and
yet, through the seemingly impossible
construction of a railroad through the
French mountains, the Germans have
in fact established a connection, more
or less direct, but neveathelcss unbrok
en from the trenches at .the front in
the west to the Asiatic city of their
Turkish ally.
To build the Argonnes railway the
Germans went to an abandoned French
mine, and from a depth of some 800
meters resurrected miles of trackage
which at no end of care and trouble
has been laid on the surface-, over land
so swampy and difficult that the first
train came to grief simply through
sinking into the ground.
Thus far two main lines have been
constructed the one U5 centimeters
wide (37 inches) and the other 1.5 me
ters wide (38.5 inches). On the so4
tion nearest the actual front, benzol
engines are used, because of their com
parative noiselessnes. Farther away
from the trenches tiny steam engines
draw th diminutive trains.
The engines have an approximate
capacity of four ears better perhaps,
the rail and roadbed can stand that
much weight without disappearing from
view and are busy every hour of the
24 in the transportation of troops, gup
plies, ammunition and, when possible,
wounded.
Automobiles which have come to grief
on the terrible roads of the Argonnes
have been rebuilt, , and have been
equipped with 37 or 38.5 gauge wheels
of steel in order that they may serve
as "cars de luxe" for officers who have
to travel from one point to another be
hind the front. The sight of officers
lolling back in dismantled . machines
towed by diminutive locomotives in
variably provokes, first merriment, and
then admiration for the system that has
literally made something lout of noth
ing and has found a way to overcome
the diliicnltics of the almost impossi
ble Argonnes roads.'
These difficulties havo been enormous.
Rainy weather has been the rule rather
than the exception in the Argonnes for
months, and its baa been a gigantic task
to keep the roads rutted by supply
trains and ammunition columns and ar
tillery from degenerating into mere
bogs. The taBk of maintainingegular
and workable oomunications with the
extreme front has . been unbelievably
hard.
ADVENTUROUS
GIRLS SOUGHT
Two Young Misses of Rut
land Went Away with
Little Money
MAY HAVE GONE
TO ALBANY, N. Y.
Charlotte Loomis and Doris
Vaughan Left Home in
Dead of Night
Rutland, Jan. 1. Notwithstanding the
fact that the thermometer stood at 10
below zero and they had only a few cents
in their pockets after buying railroad
tickets Miss Charlotte Loomis, age 15
years, niece of Fred Smart of this city,
and Miss Doris Vaughan, 12, daughter of
Fred S. Vaughan, started out, presum
ably alono, to see the world at 1:30
o'clock yesterday morning. It is believed I
that they went to Albany, jn. ., ana
relatives have gone there to iook lor
them, the police having been wired to be
on the lookout.
The absence of the girls was not dis
covered until their respective families
arose at the usual time yesterday. Both
girls went to their rooms at their usual
hours Thursday night, showing no indi
cation of anything wrong. They packed
all of their clothing in suit cases. They
had little money of their own but one of
them is said tqy have taken some from
the pocket of a sleeping male relative.
Neither awakened anyone in the houses
and both left through back doors. i
The girls were not seen on the street
by anyone who recognized them but the
night ticket agent, on being given a de
scription of the girls' clothing, remem
bers selling two Albany tickets to young
girls who wanted to go to New York but
did not have enough money. The travel
ers left Rutland on the sleeper train.
There is no evidence as yet that there
were any men connected with the case.
Both girls attended the public schools
regularly.
DISCUSS PLANS
MARRIED 175 COUPLES
DURING THE YEAR
Town Clerk and Justice Carl S. Hopkins I TQ ROOM QTflTF
nP nmtllohnvn Hail Tlnusual Record V LV Will Vl II I Lm
Contracting Parties Were Largely
OF WEDDED LltfE
SPENT.7NBARRE
'State Officials and Special
Workers Held a Confer
ence at Montpelier
from Out of the State.
Brattlcboro. Jan. I. A marriage by
Justice Carl S. Hopkins last evening
broucht his record for the year up to 175,
or considerably more than half the total
number performed in town, which was
312. In 1911, before-the' Massachusetts
law required- a few days' notice of mar
riage intentions, there were out m mar
riages in this town. In the past year
there were 239 marriages peformed here
in which both parties came from out or
the Btato.
Justice Hopkins is town clerk, and as
the Vermont law does not require notice Cnni rrn,,,, A TTfln
of marriage intentions, coup leg find it ""tioi muuDauu wmmcu
convenient to engage his services after
he has issued the marriage licenses.
i .
Mr. and Mrs. George B.'Cr .Wheaton Were
mamed 50 xears Aga'to-aay oy itev,
E. Irving Carpenter. We Was Then
Pastor of the Con'grt&afional
. .. .
At their home, 12 Kinney' tfae, Wiis;
afternoon, Mr. and Mrs. George.
vv liea ton are to observe in a quiet
their 50th wedding anniversary. Open
PTT'PnPT A TYTTM A MT1 TTfiT? house is to be kept at the Wheaton home
K&rUKl il UH.iUAJNL UK I d frien(g bave Mked to oftll and
VERMONT FARM NEWS Kreet the couple. Mr. and Mrs. Wheaton
unite in wisning mat presents oe omit
ted. Sometime late in the afternoon
there will be a brief program, with per-
Applications for Pub
licity Matter
INTERCITY RACE MEN MEET.
Barre and Montpelier Horsemen Plan for
Some Sport This Winter.
haps a few children's recitations and mu
sic. Both Mr. and Mrs. Wlieaton are en
joying excellent health and have been
looking forward with keen anticipation
to the anniversary.
Mr. and Mrs. Wlieaton were married in
the old village of Barre Jan. 1, I860, by
Rev. E. Irving Carpenter, pastor, of the
Congregational church. Immediately alt
Conferences were held at the State er the ceremony they went to the home
Houae yesterday between Secretary of of the groom's father on east hill, the
Montpelier and Barro member of the state Guv VV. Bailev . Walter II Crockett ancestral Wheaton home, where they
Canital City Driving club assembled laBtl . ., , . . lived until a year ago. There the first
,;,,ln il, hoard of trade room at ul fcuo I'""""- ""- OWK flrin had been nmd bv Mr. Wheat
the Montpelier city hall, elected officers Purchasing' Agent Dewey T. Hanley and on8 great grandfather, John Wlieaton,
for the year ensuing, selected Jan. la as between the nrst two state omciais ana more man iuw years ago.
a tentative date for the first race on the t ry widttier of South Khafr.ahnrv and Barre and Montpelier both were found-
Winooski river ice course and devoted Erwin of The agt mmed M by pioneering JX-
horse."
sue
M GET
i 5 -
The P 'Salaries ofOrvie
Estate Bring
:-Acfj0n for $15,000
.
MUTUAL LIFE CO.
OF N. Y. DEFENDANT
Mr. Jones Died 14 Months
After Taking Out
Policy - v-
FAVORS LAND BILL.
FIGHT ON CHRISTIAN SCIENCE
Is Stirring, German People as Result of
. Recent Trial.
, Berlin. Jan. 1.- Fraulein Huengen and
Frau Ahrend, the two Christian Scien
tists, recently sentenced to prison for be
ing responsible for the death of two Ber
lin actresses, have appealed from the
judgment of the trial court. Local legal
authorities, however, predict a certain
affirmation of the judgment, basing their
view on opinions already, handed down
by the imperial supreme court in similar
cases. In each of these the court held
that the assumption of the treatment of
the patient and the failure to call in a
physician constitutes gross negligence.
t said in one case:
"The trial court found the negligence
of the accused to exist in the fact that
. lie carried on the treatment of the pa
tient alone, although he knew the dan
gerous character of the illness and must
also have known that this illness re
quired a proper treatment, and he could
have foreseen that death might possibly
be the result of his treatment. In these
circumstances the eourt could assume
without error that the accused lost sight
of the required care and perception, and
especially that he did not. as 'healer,'
take proper consideration for the life of
his patient, and therefore acted against
dutv and in a guilty manner.
The provincial court of Berlin declared
null and void a contract with a Christian
Scientist, saying:
"The belief that a person is able, by
the power Of especial divine rrsce to heal
the sick, may xist in more or less ex
tended circles. But the assumption of
such a healing power in connection with
its exercise as a source of revenue is re
pugnant to the general moral sense, at
least of educated circles, the bearers of
culture, and can therefore not enjoy the
protection of the laws."
Administration Measure Favorably Re
ported by Public Lands Committee. ,
Washington, D. C, Jan. 1. The ad
ministration bill for leasing of public
mineral lands was yesterday ordered fa
vorably reported to the House by the
public lands committee. The committee,
lowever, agreed to a hearing of Califor
nia oil interests about Jan. 10, with a
iew to determining whether the com
mittee shall offer amendments on the
floor for the relief of the companies and
ndividuals who developed oil on the fean
Jocquin valley lands prior to the deci
sion of the supreme court, which upheld
the president's withdrawal of the lands
on which they located.
The provisions anecting these millions
of dollars' worth of oil lands remain in
the reported bill substantially as in the
measure passed by the House in tb" last
ongress, thougli they are sur . to a
fight later on for greater reliet than the
il companies affected receive in the leas
ing arrangement under the bill as it
stands. The bill allows the preference in
getting 20-year leases of the lands they
now occupy to the extent of 640 acres
each, -with right to successive extensions
of ten years each, under condition of
royalty to the government of not Jess
than one-eighth of the oil produced.
DIED AT RICHMOND.
MONTPELIER
;n for business. All the week, a )ury jn the Cn
in the employ of the company hee vefterday i
;en engaged in connecting the 1 " i j ,,,
Western Union Moved Office During the
Night.
Commencing at midnight, the office ef
fects of the Western Union Telegraph
company were transferred from the sec
ond floor of the Blanchard building to the
new Rialto block on State street and
this morning at 7 o'clock the new office
was open for business.
linemen
nave been engaged in connecting
wires et the new office and it was a mat
ter of but a few hours to move the ta
bles, sounders and typewriters in the
small hours of the morning. The new
office is centrally located and it is the
first time in the history of Montpelier
that the Western Union office is located
cn a street level in the business district.
George W. Shannon left last evening
for Bellows Falls to. make a few days'
visit with his son.
Benjamin Gates, secretary of civil and
military affairs, went last evening to
Middlehury to join his wife in visiting
relatives.
The Cube defeated the Wir.ards at bas
ketball by the score of 29 to 10 at the
armory last evening, the junior teams
playing between the periods of the Har
vard Dental Montpelier high game.
Ricardo Cantola of 2S4 Barre street,
Montpelier. and . Miss Luz Toca of 00
Granite street, Barre, were united in
marnago at Montpelier vestcnlav att-
ernoon by Justice of the Teace Harry
C. Shurtlcff. They will resido in Mont
pelier, where the groom has been em
ployed as granitecutter for eight years,
coming from Santaniier, Spam. The
bride has resided in the United States
two years.
Governor C. W. Gates has resriondd
vvarner n. vv ueeier was elected noble to appeals made to nun by many per
prand for the year lPlfl at the annual 'sons in this city to p&role tleatcr JJ.
meeting of Hiawatha lodge, Xo. 20, j Dodge, who was given a several months'
I. O. O. y which was held in the lodte sentence in houte of correction for so
rwnis Tl.ursday evening. lnest W. ! licit ing liquor orders. Itodge is exported
IToueton was elected vice grand and home to pass New Year' with his fam
Jii lge II. W. Scott received a re-elec-j ily. He pleaded guilty last month in
linn secretary. The treasurer for ! city court to the charge" against him and
1316 is to be D. V. Stone. The usual Iwa given a straight sentence, which he
committee was appointed to make ar-commenced to serve November He
rangereents for the installation of th:is nearly blind, well advanced in years,
officer snmetirae thi month. A biff ' and hi daughter i seriously ill, com
lnquct f .r Od l Fellows is projected bintion of cirrumf-tance which brought
ml several grand lode ofTi.-crs are to ptnr appeals to the governor. He h 1
r present. Appointive officrr for the been confined in the hospital at the penal
Melvin H. Miller, Who Was Well Known
Randolph Man.
Richmond, Jan. 1. Melvin II. Miller of
Randolph died yesterday afternoon at
1:30 o'clock at the home of his eon, Wil
liam W. Miller. He was born in Pomfret
Sept. 24, 1837, and remained on the home
farm until several years after the death
of his father and mother, Mr. and Mrs.
Crosby Miller, when he sold the place
and moved to Randolph. A few years
ago he suffered the amputation of one
leir because of hardening of the arteries
and a little later lost the other leg from
the same cause, after which he got about
in a wheel chair.
A few months ago Mr. Miller made the
trip to Richmond to spend the winter
with his son. He soon began to fail in
health and for the last few weeks there
had been no hope of his recovery. Be
fore he lost hiB legs he was prominent in
the affairs of the Vermont Dairymen's
association and the Vermont Maple Sug
ar Makers' association and was a promi
nent official at fairs in this part of the
state. , . ;
Mr. Miller leaves a widow, who was
Julia Ware of Pomfret, whom he married
Aug. 14, ISfil, and who has been a de
voted helpmeet during his years of ill
ness; one son, William W. Miller of
Richmond; one brother, General Crosby
P. Miller of Burlington; and two sisters,
Mrs. Ellen M. Chandler of Tarrytown,
X. Y., and Mrs. Emma h. Mclntyre of
Randolph, who is spending the winter
with her daughter, Mrs. G. E. Loudon, in
Burlington.
The funeral service will be held Mon
day morning at 10:30 o'clock.
compose a committee representing dis- Alice r. Kinnev. Kent. 1. lfififl. and is
What the gathering lacked in number, trict school superintendents and have therefore approaching her 70th birthday.
there being nearly as many from Barre clarKe oi tne worn or asscmoung ver- SIie is a ntttjve of Barre and her great
ao frnm Alr.tnoli..r waa m.i.lp nn hv the moni view, me puoucity Department trranrffather. a member of th Wheeler
harmony and good-fellowship which ex- co-operating with the committee in ob- fAmiyt came to Montpelier in the 18th
isted, two qualities which have some- taining picture representing typical ceritury and there erected the first dwell-
times been absent in former meetings. scenes anu janiern auuea oi scenic views, ing ll0uge weU B8 the first church.
President D. K. Lillie was re-elected to industries, etc. Mr. Wheaton is bis wife's senior by five
the office of president, and A. W. Daly Letter are to be sent to the 60 odd u- years, having been born in Barre Aug.
tias atruin clmspn in act as aecretarv perintendent in the state and all will 0. lsii. His ancestors came to Barre
Fred A. Slavton of Jo'" an effort to secure pictures to be flnd wtled on east hill in 1777. The
Barre was again made vice-president. 8c- 'n onooia ior euucaiiormi purposes fam,iy came from Leicester, Mass., and
mm oumiue mo ie iw uio iuufii,jr many 0f the heirloom in a room at tne
gained. Wheaton home were brought from the
An enort is aiso to De maue to interest nay state in that year. Visitors at the
moving picture concerns in taking pic- Il0me cf JIr, an(f Mrs. Wheaton are
ture of Vermont' scenery, industries Uhown an unoer room that is a dcDoei-
Whitney and Mayor J. M. Boutwell; nd natural resources, such as the gran- tory for priceless relics that were the
judges, J. M. Boutwell, Harry Britton, w nu marine quarries. property once of their grandparents and
Barre, George rutnam, Dr-E. C. Barrett; The farm book has been revised to date great-grandparents. During the exer
starter, Orville Pine. hf Mr- Crockett and Purchasing Agent cjHeg to-day the worthy couple will sit
The position of starter, while probably "aniey was consuitea anoiit me printing ,n chairs that were brought to Barre
h mvt.t mnnrtant nn t. he ice. la never- " u", njm.u mm wj mc mnu from Massachusetts beiore tne exDira
thelees a thankless, freezing job, and the t'0"' there not havim? been n issue for tion of the Revolutionary war.
members of the club considered them- ovcr a vear- 1118 ew fx1 W1" 06 ""- During a half -century of married life
selves exceedingly fortunate to secure I trated, a feature not contained in the Ufr. and Mrs. Wheaton passed all but
the service of Mr. Pine. P'"' '"" '" " w couniuumu.jr one year on their farm. Xliey number a
Secretary-Treaaurcr Daly reported a larger. It lias been decided not to nave )arge cjrcie 0f acquaintance in the coun
balance of $123.57 in the treasury, the mciuae a list oi tne larms ior trvside as well as here in the city. Both
amount having been increased from the ' 0l't to fet u"t separate pamphlet are member of the Congregational
previous season, when there had been which will be cheaper and easier to mail, church and they also belong to Cobble
but $54.84 left. Eight raees were held an1 " kPP UP t0 dRte- Kill grange. They have one daughter
wt :nlir and tl, a fmilinw. due I "ere lia Deen a great demand tor tne Mra. Elmer Owen, and three prandc.hil-
probably in part to the legislature then farm book in the last few month and dren, Lena E. Owen, George "AV. Owen
f it.- i I there are Severn, thousand name on t.lipl...i ct,u. v r in
il a tilt, mi X SI 11 J I mtiiu. I j. I mm tiinillCY l v . v n. .in nut nib..
The following committee wore elected
Finance committee, C. B. Roberts, B. L.
Spooner, Thomas Short; race committee,
George Bedell, D. K. Lillie, A. B. Shepard,
C. L. Pannenter, Joseph Coates, Dr. G. L.
Seeking to recover the amount of a lifo
insurance policy on the life of Orvie M.
Jones, late of Warren, the administrator
of the estate and the guardian of the
children have brought action in Washing
ton county court against the Mutual Lito
Insurance company of "New York. The
policy is for $5,000 and was taken out by
Mr. Jones in Jude, 1914, 14 months be
fore the death of the insured. The
amount set up in the action entered to
day "is $15,000.
John Spaulding is the administrator of
the estate, and he brings the action, to
gether with Jennie L. Jones, guardian for'"
Merritt A., Marian and Mildred Jone.
Attorney John W. Gordon represents the
plaintiffs.
Another case just entered is by, a Barre
concern, the Buzzi Granite company,
which sues the Vermont & Chicago Gran
ite company, located at Hardwick, for
$500 in a general assumpsit action. The
suit is to recover certain granite stock
and granite working tools.
B. A. C. SAW NEW YEAR IN.
POSTMASTER CONVICTED.
ill session, WHS IU mi l wu imim. , , Vt- V - - i unit t7muic:j
The sum of $000 was paid out in purses w;swig list in mo puniicity ucpartment them to-day.
for the eieht races, but collections on the . i"r-"v n veruiuui. mrm. in
ice at the matinee proved to b good. growing rapidly aiil is not confined to PATRIOTIC GOLDEN WEDDING
VicP-PrcKidcnt. Slavton of Barre tried any I" of Up country, although
to have his name withdrawn when he ny "t the application for information For Mr. mi Mrs; Frank E. Martell of
was nominated for-the same office, gjy- naya come from tne At est and Canada. I Bethel He I. Civil War Veteran
ing a an explanation mat wane no was -- - . : , Y . ' I , T , , ,r J, ,
.!..-. .;ii;.! i..i itl, nh.ra nf the licity official and Mr. Hanley was the Bethel, Jan. 1. Mr. and Mrs. Frank
club "in promoting good racing, he felt text book on the resources and opportu-1 E. Martell reached yesterday the 50th
that there were Montpelier members who I riitie of Vermont, the publication of anniversary of their marriage and cele-
k mru ..fi ti, untimunt nfwhich wa authorized by the last legisla- orated the event delightfully by an in
the meet ing seemsd to be that the success ture. The boek is ready for the printer formal reception, at which the members
of (ho cluh via lar-jclv Hue to Barre and the commissioner of education, Ma- of Daniel Lillie post, 'o. 61, G. A. 11.,
horsemen, and he was unanimously n 8. Btone, ha requested 10,000 aopics were guest of honor. The fine wedding
elected. a the minimum number required for use cake wag the gift of Mrs. V S. Young of
Supt' of Street Hark B. Robert was 'n the schools throughout the state. The Waterbury, a sister of Mrs. Martell.
not optimistic about the ice for racing book will be well illustrated and is ex- There was also a beautiful gold and
for some time, and only considerable cold pected to prove of much educational white cake from friends in Thompson,
weather without snow will put the course 'lu",l "uu" " k"c grueB r-""
in condition for brushes. Supt. Rolx-rts -L'""'B- . . Vr t T w " ' J '
hn dared nnt trust a bnrae on the The text book will not be distributed Mrs. John vy. Clark and Col. Osman
ice yet to scrape the course. At his sug- aside from (ending copies to school n-1 Clark and wife of Montpelier sent 60
trestion Taniiarv 15 was set as the date perintendent although libraries will be I carnations, Mr. Clark' husband having
for the first race, and plans will go ahead provided with copies upon application as been quartermaster of Mr. Martell s regi
for the opening meet of the season on lonS fla the supply last. ment. From the friends in Massaehu-
that date, but if weather is not more , An up-io-tne-minuie dook conta.mng a sett, wnere tney iivea so mng, a no. otner
favorable it will be later than the middle ll8t of n(1 describing Vermont hotel and friends in Groveton, N. IL, and Bethel
of the month boarding house is being prepared by the came several gold coins and a pair of
Business having been disposed of satis- department and will be issued during the solid gold link etiff buttons from Keuben
f-ctnrilv . th .Wn nr more hnrs-0wners winter to lure the summer tourist to Law Reed of South Acton, Mas., the
discussed "fast ones" for the remainder I Vermont
of the meeting. At least one animal
which made a name for herself last sum
mer on the turf will perform on the
third mile course this winter, L. McLeod St.
of Barre assuring the members that he
would enter Anna Dean, 2:24Vi-
PIKE-HUTCHINSON
historian of Bunker hill, who made the
historical box and gavel contributed a
few year ago to the tate of Vermont
and on. exhibition at the capital in the
room of the Vermont Historical society.
A very large number of congratulatory
messages came from friends far and
HARVARD BOYS OUTPLAYED.
TALK OF THE TOWN
, J. Hauer Collapsed When Jury Re
turned Verdict at Portland. ,
Portland, Me., Jan. 1. A verdict of
guilty on all three counts was returned
. i ... . i t ' i i .)'..: .
meu Klines umirici
against D. J. Hauer,
09 years old, former postmaster at
Perry, who was charged with embezzle
ment of postal funds and with misappro
priation of money order totalling $220.
Ifaiier collapsed when the verdict wa
given. Hi wife remained calm.
The verdict i a vindication of 20-year-old
Hazel McPhail, an employe at Hauer'
hotel at Ferry, on whom the defense
tried to blame some of the thefts of
postoflice money.
Judge Hale gave Hauer' counsel until
Feb. 1 to file exceptions. He ordered
Hauer to give bail for daily appearance
until then. L'nder the federal law Hauer
is liable to imprisonment for 15 years or
$5,000 fine or both.
Johnsbury Girl the Bride of Derby
Line Business Man.
Lyndonville, Jan. 1. William Flint near' wl, could not te I'rpsent- Thefl'
Pike, son of Mrs. Xfarv Pike of n.rhv included several comrade of .Mr. Martell
Line, and Mis Bess M. Hutchinson, ivinf? n "d near Koxbury, his former
daughter of Mr. and Mm. Clark B home.
Showed No Teamwork Against Montpe- TTtifihinHnn if this nlar -nra married The whole celebration was of a strong
Iter High Basketball Team. to-day at the home of the bride by 'J "; UJ
IT)-.- T "! 1 .. n .... m T1..1 I IllltllV Ul Lilt? Jllt'IIim 1 fllilll III. Hlltl 11 I CT.
Harvard DentaUchool' basketball ag- I'i 71.1 Martell have made during their few
Derby Line, an intimate friend of the -v residence here. It is safe to say
groom, was best man. The double ""J" '"Ty
.-.,:- ,. . ,,-. -j :. tt.,.i. I old enouch to have been married 50
Irvine of Derby Line,
HOTEL KEEPER ARRESTED.
Three Women Inmates Also Arrested in
Burlington.
Burlington, Jan. 1. Latoof Besory,
proprietor of the Revere house on Bat
tery street, wa arrested last evening
when the house was raided by .virtue
of a warrant charging with keeping
a houae of illfame. The raid took place
about twelve o'clock and three women,
Sarah Wilcox, Mary White and Ann
Boyd, were locked lip at the same time
charged with being inmates of the placi.
POTATO SUPPLY LESSENED
By Burning of 10,000 Barrels Stored at
Ashland, Me.
Hoiilton, Me Jan. 1. A large potato
house owned by T. T. Mirhaud at Soldier
Pond in Ashland wa horned. It con
tained lO.rttiO of barrels potatoes, making
a loss estimated bv the authorities at
$25,000.
gregation which is barnstorming Ver
mont during the holiday vacation,' failed
to present much opposition to the fast
Montpelier high school five at the Mont
pelier armory hall last evening and were
defeated by the overwhelming score of
43 to 11. The figyres best explain the
contest, if it can be termed that, but the
spectator were treated to ome nappy
playing by the local team.
The ecore at the end at the first play
ing period stood at 20 to 5 and before
five minutes had ensued the ultimate re
sult was never in doubt. The visitor
lacked teamwork and tried too many
long shots, although Hyde wa successful
in caging the ball from the middle of the
floor twice. The local team failed to get
properly started until well toward the
end of the first half and were elow in
handling the ball.
In the final period better passing wa
exhibited by the high school five and
Clark and Gross were kept busy receiv
ing passe and caging the ball. Clark
was the big wori.ig factor with 10 bas
ket from the floor to hi credit and four
baskets from the foul line. Gross and
Jangraw contributed nine more. Hyde
was the only Harvard jnan to get two
baskets. The summary:
Montpelier IFigh. Harvard Dental.
Cross, If rf, Kyle
Clark, rf.. If. Hyde
Jangraw, e c, Carne
Smith, rg...rg, Esterberg, Sowles, Laird
Mack, lg lg, McDonald
Basket from the floor Gross 4. Clark
10, Jangraw 5, Smith 2, Mack, Hyde 2,
Carnes, Sow lea, McDonald. Baskets from
foul Clark 4, Hyde 1. Referee Moore.
Time Twentv-minute halves.
a niece of the
bride, was the ring bearer. The flow
er girl were Esther Irvine and Molly
Bisonnet of Derby Line. The house
was decorated with holiday colors, and
about ( 150 guest witnessed the cere
mony. Following the wedding ceremony a
breakfast was served in the dining room
where pink wa the prevailing color.
The breakfast wa in charge of Miss
Maud Wetherbee. and Mr. David R.
Brown, Mrs. Hadden Lyster, Mrs. John
Ahern, and Mr. C. B. Dodge assisted.
Mis Flavia Folsom, Mis Yelma Dar
ling and Miss Elizabeth Titcorab did the
serving. The bride' gown was of chif
fon tafetta and tulle with a court train.
She carried orchids and lilie of the
valley and her veil wa caught with
oraiiire blossoms.
year. 1 hey were, in lact, married when
young, Mr. Martell having been born in
Barton March 4, 1S44, and Mr. Martell
in W&itsficld Oct. 11, IS50. He enlisted
in Co. H, Cth Vermont regiment, the
Roxbury company, and made a good sol
dier. Their marriage occurred in Middlesex
Dec. 31, 18G5. About 40 years of their
married life was spent in Massachusetts,
the larger part in Cambridge. Their re
turn to Vermont, their native state, not
many year ago, wa a fitting act for
uch loyal Vermonter.
Held Annual Dance, with Banquet and
Program Included.
New Year' eve was &n occasion of
jollity for the members 6f the Barro
Athletic club, gathered to the number of
nearly 200, with guests from outside
towns, in Clan Gordon hall. It was the
third annual banquet and dance of the
club and by all odds, the members say,
the most pretentious of the three. The
hall was a riot of colored festoons and
incandescent, a decorative feature which
reflected on the diligence and ingenuity
of the committee. A program which wa
not without its hilariously funny fea
ture began at 8 o'clock, and it was not
until two round hours afterward t''fc
the .merrymakers were seated at the
banquet tables. (
An orchestra of musicians assembled
by John F, Carroll dispensed music at
intervals during the program, began the
first of the dances, a grand march and
circle with a spirited overture, and kept
up it harmonious business until 1915
had long since taken wing. The club
president acted as master of ceremonies,
and after a brief address of welcome he
introduced James Bennett, whose contri
bution was a delightful vocal solo. Alex
ander McKenzie sang one, too, his in
half-humorous vein that wa captivat
ingly rendered. Jame Rowan lent vari
ety to the numbers with a recitation and
an encore. Among several impromptu
responses, wa a toast to the new year,
and then Miss Sadie Lamb sang in pleas
ing voice. )
A Tragedy at Sunrise' was the one
big mirth-provoking stunt of the even
ing, and for a final program number it
proved a strong finisher. Although the
setting wa as far remote from the shores
of Tinibuctoo as it jiossibly could he,
there was a realistic touch to the scene
where Capt. Augustus Jvickler the king
of the Kosairs, as interpreted by l'erley
otler, was ignomunouslv supposed to
lie handed. Actors participating in the
little farce got, a warm hand for their
original effort.
Afterward came the Bupper and then
more dancing. A number of younger
U. A. C. members took care of the serv
ing, and the cuisine, of a sort that has
made B. A. C. banquet famous among
local epicurean in the past, wa in
charge of Mr. Mary Prestini and Mrs.
William Stephen.
Credit for the unqualified success of
the B.' A. C.'s yearly get-together must
b given in large part to the four mem
ber who constituted the general com
mittee. They. are: Louis Sassi, Perley
(rotler, James Gallagher and Peter Mab
erini. They were ably assisted by Fran
cis Clcary and Duncan McMillan as floor
manager. .
BANK DIVIDENDS.
STUART-MORSE.
Former Barre Young Man and Bethel
Girl Married as New Year Dawned.
People's National Declares 3Vt nd Gran
ite Savings 3 Per Cent. Semi-AnnuaL
The People' National bank ha de
clared a eemi-annual dividend of 3'i per
cent, to stockholders, payable Jan. 1.
The Granite Savings Bank Trust Co.
ha declared a semi-annual-dividend of 3
per cent, to stocklioldcrs.
Bethel, Jan. 1. George II. Stuart of
Burlincton. recently of this village, and
Mr. Pike is a prominent young bus- Mis Evelvn II. Morse, daughter of Mr.
ines man in Derby Line and ms wile and Mr. Roscoe . Morse, were married
is one of Lyndonville' most popular IOon after 12 o'clock thi morning by
yotng ladie. She graduated from St. Rev. J. Wesley Miller at hi home. They
Johnsbury academy in 1903 and alo took the first train for Montreal, and
from the Boston Young Women's School aft,.r their return from their bridal tour
of Domestic Science. The couple left ill live in Burlington, where Mr. Stuart
for an extended wedding trip which will u employed a chief clerk at the Central
be spent at the winter resorts along Vermont Railway company' office.
the east coast of Florida and on their I The bride is a native of thi village.
In
CRACKSMEN GOT $10,000
Uncut Stones at Jewelry Store in
rateron, N. J.
rtTnn. X. J.. Jan. I. Crckmen
return they will make their home at
Derby Line. Among those from out of
town to attend the weding were Mrs.
J. W. Sain of Quitman, Gxrgia, a
sister of the bride, and F. 0. Blunt of
Lowell, Ma.
COMEDIAN LEFT $3,000,000.
Joe' Mnrphy, Old-Time Star, Was 83
Years Old.
Kew York, Jan. 1. "Joe Murphy, old
time Irish comedian, died in thi city
yesterday, leaving an estate valued at
M.Mn.Otm. Murphy was known from
a graduate of Whitcorab high school and
recently w a a bookkeeper for the Bethel
Printing company and the Bethel Coal &
Ico company. She ha been prominent
in society and active in church work and
will be missed much in the coinmunitv.
TALK OF THE TOW
At their home in East Montpelier to
day Mr. and Mr. William Walker, for
mer residents of Barre. quietly observed
their 25th wedding anniversary. A fam
ily reunion at dinner to-day wa to be
followed by a musical and literary pro-,
gram. Among the people who went from
Barre to assist Mr. and Mrs. Walker in
the olservance were Mrs. gr.p WValker
of Grant avenue and member of her.
family. S i
A. M. Flanders, a Dfot qunrv p-
rsire man, has perji-ted a dtwi-a jot
operating a sled ovcr the ncnf wit.'i
the aid of a motor. Thi invectiin
vu jr.Ven a successful tryont venter
daf and people who witnessed the aled
in pvratii-ns over the road war did not
Mr. JaiiK-s -T. Marrion of Franklin j
! street has returned home, after nas-insr . who blew the safe in the jewelry store
coming year will I named on the even- (institution almost since the day of hiajsevcral day with relatives in Barling-' of Barnet Cohen yesterday escaped with'eoaat to coast for hi impersonation in soriation. returned vesterdav to hi
the installation .iifn ... . n . . t ... n . . . . . . -. i 1 . i.- w ,-,. 1 r c . , v tt . I 1
- - - .uitiiM iua. :v,vw "Villi Vi UUlUb IIVUH, .Hi I J wvw. A.c maw ltll viu. 414 ' k ll.lll.
Mr. Stuart, whose former home was in j need to affect their suprise v hen they
Harre, wa here nearly three year at;saw an attachment used in the summer
the railway oflices, was a leader in ath-jtime to conveit an ordinary bicycle in
letic and w a considered a hard worker I to a motrrcyde adapted to (he motor-
nd worthy of his promotion to the J;ur-j iration of a sled. At the Crcrnn
lington office. ' !-ne granite manufacturing plant in
- jHurnham's meadow, person of an in-
J.. IL Clark, who ha been passing a;ventivc turn of mind have perfected a
few day in the city while attenditi!? the 'device fr steerina traverse sleds. The
annual show of the Vermont Pou!trv as. I at paratus reaembiea a pair cf handh'
v as. 1 1 paratus reen
boina'bar and rm.r be attath.-d to the front
end of any traverse.
