4 .. ..
Si jm-
. H FULL LEASED .
A WIRE DISPATCHES
:.
M
CIRCULATION IS
OVER 4000 DAILY
n
THIRTY-EIGHTH YEAR
SALEM, OREGON, SATURDAYJANUARY 1, 1916
PRICE TWO CENTS
ON TEATNB AND NBWi
STANDS FIVB OEXTS
S MY ft
0 t il
FP
COMPLICATE
AW
DISPUTE
Oriental Liner Carrying Many Passenge . vent to Bottom
by Submarine and Many Lives Lost- erican Consul
' R. N. McNeely and Charles Grant Ah merican, On
Boaid Her Only Four Boat Loads Sa Probably
200 Drowned-Washington Officials Amazed
Washington, Jan. 1. America was face to face today
with a new and most serious submarine controversy by
icasuii in uit; smiting oi me n,ngnsn aner rersia oy an un
dersea boat. Coming hot on the heels of virtual settle
ment of the Ancona case, news of her destruction, with
Consul R. N. McNeely of Aden, Arabia, aboard, renewed
the tension in official quarters.
From Consul General Skinner at London came word of
the Persia's destruction by a submarine as she neared
Alexandria, but he reported, contrary to foreign indica
tions, that nearly all were saved.
His message said:
"The liner Persia was sunk by a submarine as she was
approaching Alexandria. Consul R. N. McNeely (recently
appointed to the Aden post and en route to his duties) was
a passenger. Nearly all aboard were saved."
Officials Amazed at News.
President Wilson at Hot Springs, Va., kept in close
touch with the situation by long distance telephone, but
he reserved comment.
While officials were amazed at the torpedoing, in the
wake of Austria's Ancona agreement, they were disposed
not to discuss the case until full details arrived. They
were especially interested to know the nationality of the
attacking undersea boat, as to whether or not the Persia
was given warning' and her passengers an opportunity to
reach safety as America, insists must be done under the
rules of international law and humanity.
If the attacking vessel was Austrian it is expected that
Austria will excuse the incident on the ground that her
7iew orders for conduct of submarine warfare had not yet
reached the commander, inasmuch as the incident oc
curred the day after the Ancona reply was handed to
American Ambassador Penfield at Vienna.
J ' Waiting Tor Details,
Secretary Lansing said be
ise reparation and punishment of the
1 1 I II.. T !-
WOU1U i'v"t'"iiurr, unless wie JCI'SIU WHS III
. i "uniting wain un nuuiu ...... ...j ..., . n'u imo tv-
nwnit fuller official advices concern-jtomriting to escape.
inH tlio Persia before taking any action They would not entertain the hypo
but in the meantime would make spo- tliesiB that Austria was acting in "bad
eiul efforts to learn if McNpolv ner- faith and sank the liner, dircctlv after
nbed.
The state department did not dis
guise the fact that the news mav have
tremendous importance as bearing on
(submarine dispute with the central
powers, which ha. I been thought to be
practically settled, with receipt of the
Austrian Ancona note, and with Ger
many's pledge not to make unwarned
ut ui'kb uu passenger snips
London Tell the Story.
London, Jan. 1. Between 73 and 200
persons, mnny of them helpless women
and children, are believed to have per
ished when a submarine sank the Pen
insular and Oriental liner Persia south
of Crete Thursday. Aboard her were
east two Americans, Consul R. N.
at
If it Is proven tlint the Persia was! ''ely, on route to his new post at
. n. nn n , I f l. 1 i .
tlio victim Ol an unwarned attack. ",,u -' v.ruur.
Mute department officials said that the
unite ucpanmeni omcinis said that tile v"". '""r Boatloads of survivors
administration would address to the of- wero reported to have cleared the sunk
fending nation a note closer to an! 0,1 vessel, These landed at Alexandria
ultimatum than any thus far sent to,,0(,n.v-
Germany or Austria. The 7074-ton stenmer, third largest
One official suid that if it Jprolop- English vessel to fall victim to sum
ed the liner was not warned, the situ-i "'"rnie warfare, carried 2H1 passengers,
ation would be graver than nnv inci-i including H't women and 23 children
dent since the t.usil.win was torpedoed;1""' a e''w of over 100. A third Am
with loss of many American lives. I erican, Kdwnrd Hose, of Denver, book
Officials believe, however, that the ''!1. ns a l"ls'0"Kei-, probubly quit the
nation responsible perhaps even with-i J..,1 till"'nllnr
out a protest from America, would i , 1 , ws that only four boatloads
quickly disavow the torpedoing, prom-' tlle H'"P Utt of B,uvo casual
1 1 I tics grew apace. Whether the slilti on.
I warned or whether she tried to flee
I iu lint L iinu-ii l.i.t il.n C . ti
- . lulr met mitt so lew
riEST "DEY" ARREST
Seattle, Wash., Jan. 1. The
first arrests for violation of the
dry law, which went into effect
at midnight, was made here at
2:55 o'clock this morning
when the owners or the Magno
lia bar, Second avenue south,
were charged with selling beer.
Fred E. Wood, a bartender at
the Buffet saloon, on First ave
nue was arrested at 4:20 a. m.
on a similar charge. In each
caso, the front door was locked
at midnight, but according to
the officers, revelers inside
were supplied with the prohibit
ed wet goods.
scssjs;i
E
Party Guarded by Police to
Prevent Merry Makers
Attacking Them
By Charles P, Stewart.
(United Press staff correspondent.)
Copenhagen, Jan. 1. The Ford peace
pilgrims wero virtually prisoners for
several hours Inst night, guarded by
policcto provent New Year's eve mer
rymakers from attacking them. The
party was "interned" following their
attendance at a banquet of the Kovr'
Shooting club, after which they were
escorted to their hotels.
Governor Haana, of North Dakota, is
iu improved condition, though stil'
quite ill.
liev. Dr. Charles F. Aked, of San
Francisco, went on the list of sufferers
today for he is on the verge of a nerv
ous collapse Moreover, many of the
delegates aro suffering from "colds.
Tweiity-thrco persons greeted the
delegates upon their arrival here yes
terday, but there was no formal recen-
tion. Tho police have prohibited the
party rrom noiding public meetings.
Business Manager Plantiff threw a,
new bomb of desp.n' into the expedi
tion when ho ordered the dolegates to
carry their own baggage. At Chris
tiania and Stockholm it was carted at
Ford 's expense.
When Diplomats Quit
SurgeonsBegin On Him
Athens. Jan. 1. Ki
will undergo nn operation cither today
ui lumuirow.
Dr. Strauss. dcrmim anAMbi:ut
attended the king last summer and ac
companied him to Esselbcrg, was ex-
prcieu io arnvo touay to perform the
operntion.
Official announcement of these facts
said that tho operation would be of a
"minor nature" and flint tlm Hi,,,
would be well shortly.
A fortnight ago it was rumored that
he was ill and would hn Itnnhln tn un.
ticipato in affairs of state, for several
OAR OF DYNAMITE EXPLODES
Laredo, Texas, Jan. 1. Explosion of
carload nf CnrrnnziHtna rli-mimitn
and erenade nt Monterov wjih roi.nrt,1
today to havo killed 15 persons and in
jured many others.
El
TWO-THIRDS
ID
AID DHTGOME
"Die On the Job; the Allies
Are Coming' -Was Order
of Serbian General
LITTLE ARMY OF 13,000
FACED HALF MILLION
Defense Covers Serbian Army
With GIory-Their Death
Allies With Shame
San Francisco, Jan. 1. "Die on tho
job: the allies arc' coming."
This was tho order of the Serbian
general, Deptovoitch to his army of KI,
000 in Belgrade when nearly half a mil
lion Germans hurlcij themselves against
the city, according to Dr. S. O. llcnsi
ley, prominent local doctor just back
from Bed Cross service in Serbia.
Two thirds of the Serbian soldiers
obeyed the command and died. Tho
allies didn't come and the rest is his
tory. Beasley told how he and Dr. Edward
Ryan, once a prisoner in Mexico, la
bored with six other American physi
cians in pools of blood for three days
..a to care for the Serb woun
ded. He recounted, too, how 00,000
civilians fled the city only to be mis
taken for soldiers and mowed down by
hundreds before German artillery fire.
In the course of his travels, licnsley
was in Belgium where ho saw Queen
Elizabeth in nurse's uniform, curing
for the broken soldiers of Belgium.
Kaiser Has Carbuncles.
Amsterdam, Jan. 1. Berlin messages
today repeated di jnictiug reports that
the kaiser "1 snill'Tuffering with, viru
lent carbuncles. 1 -
One report said that the kaiser is
abed and that his doctors had not suc
ceeded in removing the danger of blood
poisoning. It was said, thought, that
ne still receives certain officials in his
bed chamber, but he suspends all work
in the evening because of fever.
The kaiseria is personally nursinc
. . a
bun.
A cold and inflamation of tho throat
aggravates his suffering with carbun
cles. .Special quiet is observed around
the palace, aad the' people have been
cautioned against making any demon
stration, French Submarine Sunk. I
Paris, Jaa. 1. Tho ministry of ma
rine admitted today, as Berlin announc
ed yesterday, that the French subma
rine Monge had been sunk in the Ad
riatic by an Austrian squadron. At tho
same time it was announced that a
French submarine sank enemy muni
tion steamers in the Adriatic,
"The submarine Monizc was sunk
off Cattnro and a portion of her crew
was saved, " saul tho statement. "Dur
ing the action aa enemy hydroplane
was destroyed, "
According to tho records in
office of tho county clerk,
Daniel Cupid failed to keep up
his business receipts in the only
commodity that has not raised
iu prices on account of tho war
as only 3i0 mnrringe licenses
were issued in Marion county
in 1915 while 371 couples as
sumed the cares of matrimony
for better or worse in 1014.
A glance at tho record, how
ever, shows that the mythical
dart thrower finished tho year
with a sprint as there were 200
of the licenses issued during
the lust six months of the
year and but 110 had been is
sued by July 1. Juno and
November wero the two most
prolific months with .18 mar
riages each and September was
one behind with 37.
TO BE OPENED TODAY
Sunshine and Fair Weather
for Event in Racing World
Other Sports
San Diego, Cul.', Jan. 1. With a new
track settled by recent rain, early morn
ing promises of sunshine and prediction
of "fair and cool" wenthor, every
thing was iu readiness for tho opening
this nftornoon of tho new race track of
tho Lower California Jackey club at Ti
Juana, Mexico, just across tho interna
tional boundary.
James V C'offorth, president of the
club, will sprinklo tho contents of a
bottle of wine on the track immediate
ly iu front of the judges stand and for
mally dedicate the course to the racing
sport. Tho bugle will sound to call
the ponies and Harry Morrisey will
send them away in tho first contest of
the winter meet of ll"1 days.
Haces will be held daily except Mon
days. The chief race on tho card to
day was to W the exposition eitv 1inu-
uicap of six furlongs, in 'which six
horses were entered.
C'offorth predicted a crowd of 20,000
tho first day.
It May Be Moran.
New Orleans, I,a., Jan. 1. -Frank
Moran, of Pittsburg, will ho tho oppon
ent of Champion Jess Willard hero on
March 4 or (1, if he defents Jim Coffey
in their bout at New York January 7.
This was definitely established today
whe Tommy Burns, promoter of the
match, announced that Moran had ac
cepted his offer for the bout.
Burns did not state whether Fred
Fulton would bo remntched with the
champion in the event Mornu fails to
vanquish Coffey.
Owner Johnny Powers and Chance
are attending tho races at Ti Juana
today. No definite action is expected
until their return early next week.
LAST RITES BUT NO WAKE
OVER 'RUMMY' DECEASED
Lack of Stimulants Made His Passing Hours Quiet and Peace
fulIn Portland Drunkenness Less Than Usual Wins
Was a Mocker and Booze and Beer Was Limit of Choice
Seattle, Denver and Other Cities Held a Wake, But ths
"Potheen" Was In Limited Quantities Everywhere
Portland, Or., Jan. 1. Astride the water wagon, little
1916 rumbled into Oregon with no more fuss than accom
panies the usual New Year celebration.
With her slate wiped clean of saloons, but ample stores
of liquor in every cellar, Oregon awoke this morning and
decided prohibition wasn't so awful after all.
Last night's revelery was tame compared with what
everybody expected and with what the officers were pre
pared for. The throng on the streets of Portland wasn't
as large as that whish ushered in 1915. The dismantled
saloons were choked until midnight, but when they found
themselves actually face to face with prohibition, the
drinkers were sad rather than boisterous.
The main difference was that the saloons closed an hour
early than usual. Thus was a little added solemnity to the
ceremony of the locking the doors, a slight disposition to
buy big supplies at the last minute and then the crowd?
poured into the streets and waded through the dry snow
which had fallen while they celebrated.
(Continued ou Fago Nino.)
Lawyer to Be Pitcher.
l'ortland, Ore., Jan. 1. Junies Chirk,
a lawyer of Everett, 'Wash,, today has
among his legal papers a contract to
pitch for tlio l'ortland Coast league
(Coutinued on Pi;e 811.1
Sff I "' ..... .u.t Hint ou IVVY
.persons nip known to have been saved
jjindicnted that they had scant time to
rencn places or ralety.
The Persia wns nn rniitn fmm I nn.
i dnn to ISonibny. Hhe was one of the
; Ale Martia t
iliiiilij.j.j.j.j.xj.j.
. -. t ... . t r jf. if. i . - ...... . .....
I i i , .-i . i . . , i nun vm'iiuu JICCI, Trailing
imncin j'.ngmnu ami tnc lar east.
Mil' it V Hllinller llinn tlio lfiilinn li.
,rWSI. er rtiiconn, recently torpedoed, she was
fl AwUKlfAl 4 ",' 7'"' ,0,IS- 41111 f't lo"K with 0(i
I'-&ilfft'i G; f""t ,siic wu" i,Mt ill -l!i0 nt
U ni3 rK-lu W31 V . - '(irccnock. Her commander was 11. S.
I ilrndshnw.
She was the larcest liritish liner thnt
has been sunk by a mihiuarine thus
far with the exception of the Lusitauia
and Arabic.
Tlio Peninsular offices staled thev
lllld linil tin ..-nr.l ....iw.i.ri, i n rr tltn tn.at..
I since Tuesday, except for n brief .lis-
paicii unit sue nan occn sunn, prouao
ly with large casualties.
Nearly 400 Aboard.
"The Persia carried ninny passeng
ers and a large crew, but I don't know
exactly how ninny now, " taid an of
ficer ot the, line. '
Not more than 2"0 could leave in the
four hont nnd officers said that prob-
lllllv the llltuilmr nf alirv-ii'ni- witu In.u
I tlinii "nil
"The Persia was well equipped with
bonis," said the speaker, "and the
fact that only four of them ot nwnv
indicates that she sank rnpidlv, and it
apparently confirm dispatches indi
cating large casualties;
" We are hopeful, however that early
CIRCULATION FIGURES THAT ARE EXACT
PROVE THE CAPITAL-JOURNAL'S POPULARITY
1i UV R.l
ft.
.1 VW'H!ULilsttU
. i IB !
Yin
feflscV,VK?rr ,?w'',Wli'. but he
lie ndwsed t CH j, '
Imupt bM advertised fer ,-r Jj
a sack ,u,t nn - nn JSS1 tiff 11 r h
to.' dcteet.ve j,, MM ,u, ,f
(Continued on Page Six.)
Following is the correct statement of the a final
:: Capital Journal of Salem, Oregon:
': Total Averajre dailv circulation fnr flip 27 flava nf niiMirnf inn a - m tmm
t during the month of December, 1915 .... ft X
CHAS. II. FISHER,
c , ... , Publisher,
bubsenbed and sworn to before me this 1st day of January, 191(5.
(Seal) DORA C. ANDRESEN,
, ' Notary Public for Oregon.
llie CirCUlatlOn Of the Dailv P.inirnl .Tfinvnnl fnv tVin mnnfVi nf Tin nftm Vrii nrna
divided as follows:
Average daily circulation in city of Salem, 2220; average daily circulation by
mail 1957, total average daily circulation 4177.
This circulation statement is printed because the publishers of the Capital
Journal believe that businessmen have a right to know what they are paying for
when they buy advertising space in a newspaper. We make no circulation claims
simply a statement of cumulation facts, which any advertiser is at liberty to in
vestigate for himself. Our mailing lists, carrier lists and press run figures are
at his service. We have no circulation secrets because we have no cause to be
ashamed of our subscription list, and no good reason for misrepresenting it in
any respect.
The Capital Journal believes that it has by far the largest circulation of any
newspaper attempting to cover this field and it is a legitimate subscription not
padded by fake voting contests or wholesale distribution of premiums. Further
more, 95 per cent of this circulation is in Marion and Polk counties, directly tribu
tary to the City of Salem.
Whiskey Or Beer?
"Whiskey or beer!" was the query
of bartenders. Nothing else was to bo
had. lly common consent tho suloonB
stopped selling mixed drinks at Bix
o'clock lust night.
There was less drunkenness than on
tircvioua i.ew Year's eves. Hcventy
roystercrs awo..e iu tho city juil this
morning and learned from the jailera
that they had been drunk. ..
There were few fights and no loot'
ing. As a matter of fact there waB
little to loot. The whiskey which re
mained was the cheapest sort, the beer
was all in kegs, and except in tho largo
cafes there was no wine.
Boon after midnight the crowd had
melted away, for it was cold on tho
streets. There was no wake over John
Barleycorn. He breathed his last at
midnight and an. hour later ho was for
gotten. For 73 years old J. T). has maintained
a home iu Oregon. He set up his first
establishment)! hero in 1812 in ono of
John Jacob Astor's trading posts.
Last Sad Bites At Seattle.
Reattle, Wash., Jan. 1. oeattle and
tho state of Washington, bid goodbye
to J. Uiuieycorn last night in a listloss,
passionless manner.
There was little disorder aside from
tho traditional New Years cvo cafe
congestion, color and noise.
Many of tho m loons closed their
doors in the afternoon.
Promptly at midnight, the doors of
saloons ami cafes wero lockod. Per
sons insido cafes at that hour were per
mitted to romnin. They drank all night.
It might havo been a wilder good
night to boo.o anil welcomo to tho dry
year had it not been for the snow tbut
blnnketed Heattle New Year's cvo.
llarrooms were packed. They dis
pensed beer and whiskey with spoed
and ntiuudou. Anyone who hml tho
nerve to ask for a mixed drink was ignored.
Tho, snow was strong competition.
About 2,500 medium drunks deserted!
the saloons as early as it o'clock and
equipped thcniolves with boards ripped
from packing cases and went coasting
on tho cross town hills.
Groat crowds watched the sport. Th
celclirators demonstrated no wwnys of
skiddimt on tho car, eye, nose and
neck.
I'Wying in snow, which Is novelty
in Bbattle, was more excitement tha:
tearing up tho towu oil the last night
of the open saloon. k
About 101) oi the 31 5 saloons in oc
attlo locked their doors Friday after
noon. Most of them anticipated a
stormy night and sought to prevent
possiblo dumago to furniture and fix
tures. Others were short of liquor. And
somo had been busy packing their
holdings which will he stored or ship
ped out of the state, mainly to Cali
fornia. Denver Held a Wake.
Denver, Colo., Jan. 1. Colonel Joha
Barleycorn, pioneer In these parts, U
dead hero today from an illness in
duced by the stnte wido prohibitioa law
that went into effect at midnight.
W. U. T. U. members and Anti-Saloon
Leaguers wero guy at his wake;
the hearse that born him away was
strangely fashioned like a water
wngon. Rome of the mourners stumbl
ed boarding it.
Thousands of grieviu- comrades wer
with the colonel when the end came at
midnight: today their grief partook of
tho nature of enlarged heads, an over
whelming thirst, and a deep, darS
brown tasto iu the mouth.
Tho colonel bequeathed to his heirs
$3,000,000 iu filled bottles, stored in
private collars.
Tho coroners jury, all white ribbon
ers said the colonel came to his death
from natural causes.
G
IS
I
Chinese Revolutionists Name
Provisional President and
'Prepare to Fight
f-iiii Krnniisro, Jan. 1. Kxcltcinont
prevailed in Chinatown here today over
the announcement that Sham (hung
lluen, former viceroy of Canton during
Urn reign of the Maiirliu dynasty, has
been appointed provisional president
of China by tho revolutionists. This
Information wns contained in cables to
the newspaper ''Young China."
According to dispatches, Clovernor
Wong Clio Tung of Hie province of
(juong Se was imprisoned after ho had
iNsued a proclamation to the people of
his province to stop their disorder nnd
remain loyal to tno emperor. A suc
cessor favoring the opponents of Yuan
was named.
It is said Yuan has sent Chung King
Yoo, one of his most powerful generals
to Mock Chow, an Important strategic
point, in an effort to stem tho tldo of
rebellion.
SAN DIEGO OPENED
NEW FAIIMST NIGHT
Thousands Assembled To
Christen the Extension of
1915 Expositions
One trouble with Austria's arbitra
tion plan Is that arbitration of a con
tinuing offense is a forcgouo victory
for the offender.
Pan Diego, Cul., Jun. 1 The Panuma
Culifornia International 1010 Exposi
tion is open today.
It opened on tho stroko of midnight,
ns tho Panama-California 1915 Exposi
tion died. ,,
Thousands of Sun Dicgnns, nnd thous
amis of visitors helped to christen the
now fair. It was a rollicking, happy
crowd that jammed tho down-town
streets, flocked through the exposition
gates in great crowds and packed
cafes to the doors. Sirens shrieked,
aerial bombs roared, anil eheers rose in
a mighty awcll as tho New Year en
tered. flan' Dingo was "wide open" for tho
night. Tho lid was kicked clear off
and forgotten. As a result most of
Ran Diego Blept Into today slept al
most until the tlmo for the bugle to
cnll the ponies to the barrier at TI
Juana this afternoon.
If yon really intend to keep those
good resolutions, it mav be well to pat
tern tiiem after your staying qualities.
