rv. wan -'n . ! -. w
i . j . -
SUBWAY OFFER TO P.S. BOARD TO SAVE $ 1 65,000,000
EDITION
m Circulation Books Open to Aiv
"Circulation Jlooka Open to All."
PRICE ONE CENT.
Copyrtaht, in 10, br The I'rrsn roblUbinc
IV). (The New York World )
NEW YORK, MONDAY, MARCH
13, 1916. 1G PAGES
WEATHER Partly cloudy to-night and Tuiiday. JBE
PRICE ONE CENT. 'Hi
FMML
M
GARRANZA'S REQUEST GRANTED;
HIS TROOPS MAY ENTER U. S.
OFFER TO BUILD SUBWAYS
WHO
I
HI
HID SIX YEARS IN P. S. SAFE
Whitney Admits Plan That Might
HaveSavedNewYork$165,000,000,
but Shonts's Proposition Was
Not Backed Up by the Inter-
borough Directors.
By Sophie Irene Loeb.
The most startling ezposuro yet mado by tho Thompson Investigating.
Committee Is a contract letter put Into t safe by Secretary Whitney.
This contract lottor from tho Intcrborough practically offered to build
the subways without cost to tho city.
If this lettor had "seen tho light of day" the city's agreement to spend
165,000,000 (which sum will doubtless bo doubled) would likely not hTe
been signed.
These are the facts:
June 30, 1900 Formal proposal for subways made to Chair
man Willcox of the Public Service Commission.
Sept. 22, 1909 Another formal proposal made for subways.
March 22, 1910 Contract letter received by Chairman Will
cox from Presidont Shonts, in which Shonts presents "our
proposition in a comprehensive and definte form to entirely re
state our offer."
March 22, 1910 This contract letter "is designed to embrace
the substance of those proposals with all subsequent modifi
cations." March 22, 1910 This date marks the end of the "repeated
conferences had with you since our last formal communica
tions." March 22, 1910 Letter prescribes that "the cost of the con
struction of the subway, not including right of way, easements,
privileges or real estate for terminals, shall be paid by the con
tractor,' (Interborough.)
March 22, 1910 Prescribes that "the title to the subway's
extension as constructed shall nevertheless vest in tho city."
(Except to plcdue or mortgage Intcrborough investment to raise
funds.)
April 22, 1910 Only a month later, Mirabeau Towns, friend
of Gaynor, introduces Shonts to Gaynor.
April 22, 1910 Shonts visits Mayor Gaynor to present new
proposition to build subway with "city money invested also."
April 22, 1910 Same Hate, Chairman Willcox practically
dropped out of the subway conference. ("Understanding" of
Whitney.)
July, 1910 Three months later, comes the now Interborough
proposition to build the subways, but with "city money in
vested also."
July, 1910 Some time after this day of meeting, "the day
after the minds of the railroad and the Mayor had met," Mayor
Gaynor said to Towns, "I have given them a principality," and
that he (Towns) "should receive $750,000."
Maroh 11, 1916 Secretary Whitney brings before the
Thompson committee the contract letter which was in the safe
and which Whitney admits! "This plan, if adopted, would have
seen the subways built without any city money."
Question 'Whnt'n the matter with the now suhwny contracts?
Answer They nre so complicated Unit it would take another Solomon
to tell.
t), How were tlw contmrts niadn?
A. !!' conference- and discussions nnrt proposals.
Q. Who If rciiponfllblo for the presont subway7
A. Tho only limn who claimed responsibility 1s n dead one.
Q, How Old he claim IiIh responsibility?
A. Ho said to his best friend ittul neighbor, "1 havn Riven them a prin
cipality." (Continued on Tenth Pace.)
HEIR TO $400,000,
LONG MISSING, IS FOUND
hlivnl lo Ths K.'iitna W. rlrt i
OTnW, N. V.. March IS. Keith
Dalrymple. tho mNslug heir of tho
1400.000 fortittlo left by Kdwlu D.il
rympl'i .it I'ortallcgany. lias been
found, lie lias been taken to lluifalii
by Dr. i M. I'.ihncr of Climbs City,
Jo., anil there positively idenlillcd by
lesldon's of Hi s place who know liiiu.
Dalrymple was in l". Palmer's ciin
win n In' dls.ippi'Ui'' 0 eight Vrar ago.
T'lO J I tl V M 1 1 LIU ll. H ll III IlllllSrif lip
110111 1 1 it .IH glial .11 HI .11 1 ol'.illlU to I'll'
lawn of M.xsoiin. when- In says he
found tli" boy In in liii-.nit.il.
Sliortlv after his disappearance New
York in wspapors carried ndvrdtlM
ments which stated that a reward of
110,000 would be p.itd for locatllni: tlm
missing heir.. Dnlrympln now Ik
twenty-eight years old. Hli father,
who loft him the fortune, was an oil
prospector, . . .
F
OM
UNFAIR, SAYS WHITNEY.
nm Id- t.Uril Senator Tlioiiipioa
o l ull Wlllroi,
Travis JI. Whitney, Secretary of tho
1'ubllc Hervlcn Commission, said thin
ufternnon that the publication of the
mere quest lima mid answers at the aes-t-Um
of tlm Thompaon Conimlttoe did
not do him Justlco In tho matter of the
letter to President .Shonts, dated llarch
22, lUlu. In which tho InterlioroUKh of
feted in Imlld the now subways.
"The Impression that t sought to con
eeul the letter Ik unfntr.M hhIH m
Whitney "I lolil Mi- .Mi about the
" i - " riion, .linn i iv, ana
luiiii nijo im Muren i I npiike to Keimtor
T' "Miii.on .it ill, Illltmore iiliont thn
iiiinitii oi ulihli tli,. letter formed
I in i loin in,- .-M-iiiiio ui.it lie niiBlit
to ev i r 1 1 1 r i loriiiei Cliniriiiiiii Wllleox nt
tie I'litille r-erne i'eiiiiiiin-on on 1 tit
rfiilileil: th.a Mr. Wllliox wan fore
ulioul tin- way In which Mnynr (faxnor
li'id lipet the uholii thlliK by tnKltn;
lU'k-nllatloiis out of IiIh humU.
.loo iuiik in i' mi i unii suKxesiun
Unit tlm, Thompnon committee nhoulrt
ko Into this wholo matter and dear It
...... w 'u mv iiiiivu UUH
(uslon about offers and date.'
BABY'S BATTLE
UWV
LOST IN LONDON
'Teddy" Slingsby, l ive Years
Old, Declared Not Legiti
mate Son of Father,
PROVED A CHANGELING.
Now House of Lords Will 13c
Asked to Approve His Claim,
Set Aside by Court.
IJN'DON, .March 13. "Teddy"
Hllnftby, five-year-old California boy,
to-day loM his f'-ht for tho SlliiKsby
fortune, variously estimated nt from
1500,000 to Jl.000,000. The' Court of
Appeals, reversing tho decision of a
lower court, ruled that "Teddy" was
not the leKttlmato son of Lieut Charles
Henry Hcynnud Sllnfrsby and .Mrs.
Dorothy Morjran Cutler Sllncsby of
San Francisco.
Attorniiyn for the American bo re
fused to nivepi the vcrdu-t .iji tlnil.i
Tlie announced t lii.i .iftenioon thai
'hiy will .ppeal to the House of
Lords.
In the last three years thn SlltiK.iby
heir enso boa becomo ono of tho most
colobratod legal actions of lt kind
over fought. Tho battle for the
Sllngsby fortune In behalf of a curly
headod, sinlltnK Httlo fellow with
dimples In bis checks, has been
fought tn tho rati rt a of San Kran
oUeo and London.
Tho llov. Chorlr' s;iiighv of
sicrlven i'aik, Yorkslilre, England,
father of I.lout. Sllngsby of tho
llrltl.sb navy, left a big fortuno at tho
time of hli death. Lieut. Hllng.iby
was his eldest non. t'ndcr the terms
of his will, property worth about
$500,000 wae to go to tho eldest son
of his eldest son. This property hua
Increased In value, according tn re
port,
When IJeut. Bltngsby and his wife,
a California woman, claimed the big
nhuio of thn cntato In behalf of
"Teddy" Slliu-nby, tho other Hllngsb
heirs protested that tho liny was a
chungollng, that .Mrs. b'llngsby had
given birth to a child In H.tn l'ran
clsco, but the Infant had died, and
that sh and her husband hml pur
chased an Infant boy from an uu
fortunato girl through a rinn Fran
cisco doctor.
Tho boy's first victory In IJngland
was largely due to tho opinion ren
dered by Sir tleorgo l-Yaninpton, cele
brated artist, who testified that the
odd shape of tho boy's left ear, which
looked exactly like tho left war of
Lieut. Klingsby, convinced li tin that
tho child was the lawful h ir.
In delivering tho Judgment to-day
In tho appeal Master of tho Ilolln jmld
It was impossible to oerrnte the im
portanco of the advortltieineut said to
have been written by Mrs. Hllngsby
and Inserted In a Ban Francisco now
paper within a few day of the time
a child was born to her. The adver
tlsenient called for a new born malo
Infant.
Furthermore, the master said, It
was Impossible to doubt that .Mrs
klingsby called nt tho Associated
Charities tn San Francisco nn,j m,jf.
application tn adopt ,i i luld.
Justice Warrington and .lti.su
Hi-ay conotirreO In the master's opin
ion.
MiNir.it citcisiM to ivitMi:n r li Mrs
All routM. all rttM. (It linv HilUnij. rate.
(jUm u4 Utenturt t Tb World ljif llui,4ul
fuliux (WorMI UuU4Ui, U(U y,i
l.t, H, I, Cltr, TiuioE Bmouui iSx.-irC
Husband and Wife He Killed I AIM
Before He Committed Suicide Ljj"jj
XSBftttaaOa lafHaYcSaaBBBBBBBBaV.
HEIR TO $150,000 fl j
MURDERS HIS WIFE
AND KILLS HIMSELF:
.
John Boyle Sends Bullet Into
Her Brain as She Lies in
Bed in Apartment.
John Boyle, who recently has been1
without occupation except tho spend
ing of a $150,000 inheritance, sent s
bullet through tho left tcmplo of his
wife, Mary C. Boyle, as sho lay asleep
In their apartment on tho top floor
of the Wilmington Apartinentn, No.
0 Went Ninety-seventh Wtrect, this
morning shortly after 7 o'clock. A few
moments later he leaned over thn bid
and ended his own life In tho same
manner. His death was Instantan
eous. His wife lived half an hour.
Iloylo and bis wlfo rented the apart
ment about a month ago from Mrs
A. Ste.lnhope, who lenses several
apartments on that floor. Ho was
thirty-four years old. Heavy drinking
slnco ho retelved his Inheritance li
said to have resulted In his actliiK
qucerly at times. Twotwcekh au, hl-
wife, who was six years 'his. Juqiui,
ptovented bis - mimlttlng sultfdo l
taking a revolver away from him nn I
hiding It Slnco then, It Is said, h
hud spent much time hunting for Uit
hidden weapon.
Tills morning, Just after 7 o'clock,
lloylo stopped out of 'his apartim nt
attired In a bathrobe ami said to
colored maid In tho hall:
"My wlfo has Just committed so
cldo."
At the maid's ei.-lainn'ion of fngl
Huyle waved Ins hand vaguely ami
added:
"No, that's not right: I did It in
self. I muy as well make It two,"
He disappeared Into the apartment
sgatn. A moment later the maid and
several tenants heard a shot, and
when tho apartment was Invadtd
Boyle's body wu found lying across
Iiih dying wife's, Dr. Mill of Knu ker
bocker Hospital was called, but HoIo!
and his wlfo wore, In j, mil aid before
ho arrived.
Occupants of neighboring np.irt
menta say lioylo had sulferod from
extreme nervousness and bad been In
the habit of pacing the bulls of the
building In disordered attuc It Is
said frlonds had dlsuussod "Ith .Mrs.
iloylo tho advisability ot having her
husband put Tiudiir restraint and u.
guardian appointed to administer
hlu affairs.
Mrs. Jloylo, wliu .une from
Maine, bad been manied to Iloylo for
seven years.
Hoylos father, John M. Uuyle, be
'rutin wealthy througn me operation
of lodging 1 nuses and saloons on tho
llowory and lower T.drd Avenue. Ho
was burled flvo month" ugo from No.
L'Hj West KJghty-llrst Stteet. Ho had
provided his son with an Incoms up
to tho time of hLs death and then loft
tho hoy the Inheritance, which h has
slnco been spondlng.
William Jloyle, tin uneli of the uu
clde, Is nn Atlantic i.'ltj Magistrate,
and bvns at No. 510 Atluntln Ave.
une. Atlantic City. Ilojli and h s
Aife had visited then, recently.
When her husband's phHie.i' and
no nl. il condition Inc. on ilntmilig
Mr-i. Iloylo hlied a pec mil .it-end-
iv ror him and tiled to t-'r. lighten
htm out in various In il"i lesorts,
h,i his condition became steadily
NORTH CAROLINA TO GO
UNDER SEALED ORDERS
I' iiile hip.- nriiiulh lnu-iuli I mr
t lu.tiitaii.inui Will I'pil'.ihh
Cio lo .Mexico.
MiUHLi:. Ala, Man-li ft -The
liutilcf-liip North Carolina, nmv at
I'l iis.uola, lias received soalt-j orders
presumably for Mexican service, ac
cording to a report hero to-day. The
North Carolina wiui orlglimlly ordered
to Guaiiuamao.
ffiK 'MTE m PRESIDENT ;
toil of we! PREPAREDNESS ISSUE RAISED
Coinui Nivum's Luimei siiu
Sins Warden and Then de
tracts Charges.
I.I.I.RL: LlIAGUi:
Jniteclion Mromiseil to Its Al-
.t;edly Immoral Officers,
Charges Prosecutor.
-i.t le l!i Kl"llr WorH
WIIITF IM.AIVS, N V.. March IS
James Harvey, im (list, and mm or
the. most Important witnesses against
Thonins Mott Osborne, former War
den of Ring Sing, whoso trial on a
chargn of perjury began to-day,
proved a vsrltnblo boomerang for the
prosecution, when ho took thn stand
bofnrn Supreme Court Justice Tomp
kins here, this afternoon.
WIMiln ten minutes after Heorgo
ioidotl llnttl'i slatted his cross-examination,
Harvey admitted lie i,n
lie. I to Warden Oshornn mi several
oceiiHiniis, and stated tho Warden bad
not only declined tn hide Immorality
In thn lirlson. but lind ordered the
men Implicated In It locked up.
Tinier direct exainatlon of Assistant
District Attorney Fallon. Harvey had
told of conditions In tho prlon and
hnd stated Warden Osborne urged
him not to tell State l'rlon Com
missioner Dlcilllng or cases of im
morality. Within ten minutes ho
was contradicting this with his story
of tho Warden's indignation when b '
learned of the oeciirc-nt cs j
Harvej had dei Intel lie Has inno
cent of i in t in i rn 1 practices when he
entered Sing Sing, but In a few ques
tions Mr. Ilat.tln forced him to admit
ho bad beep Involved In llkn situa
tions In I'ltnlra Hefonnatory and had
served several additional days ns u
punishment.
Tho Osborne lawyers were Jubilant
and District Attorney Weeks and
Assistant District Attorney Follon
worn chagrined at the showing of
Harvey on erosn-exanilnntlon.
Mr. Fnllnn, In his opening addrrss,
declared the officers of the Welfare
league wero the most Immoral men
In Sing Sin . It was not tho Vol fare1
league, ho said, that was being at
tacked, but the fact the men sllouei
to control it by Warden Osborne were
the men who organized and profited
by a system of immorality.
"Osborno ordered thn records In the
Immorality cases destroyed," Mr. Fal
lon declared, "and tho records wero
destroyed, lotopi the Grand Jury lie
admitted tho records hab lieen des
troyed. H admitted be told these
Mdf-cotifisseil criminals he would go
to Jail before he would tell of t lit-ti
net Ions In prison.
"We will show Warden Osburin
told these convicts to ki ep quirt and
ho vvoul 1 protect Ihum. Ho told tliem
In, would .iiii- n Mr. Young, a brother
of Supremo Court Justlin oung,
who. tin said, was inspotislbles for
Mr. Weeks'fl jxdlHcjil carenr. and
through him would Htop any Investi
gation." Harvey, who was sent to Sing Sing
In June, 1915, said on direct examina
tion, that soon after his arrival he
met David Stone at thn prison mov
ing picture tlic.lt I e. Stoll" w,n a
iMlhry man of the Mutual Welf.uv
I., igite and Harvey told a sotdld
story of the :i. ions of Stone .m.j sl.
I,-,', I ol'iel- oltlcel'M of I. if le.lCU' 1
said In told all thai h ililn to il i,,
Wardi ii Osliorne and to tin- Cotiri of
I ti Mutual Welfure Leaifittt when
iisliotne vvus pre.MOiit.
I "Did von tell Dr. I'leilliltg Has vviien
I he i iitue to the prison'."' he was nsk d
"No, sn lietore nr. I'leinmg , ann
ul tho prison. Warden OMiornc lame
to uio and said: 'Harvey, you don't
want to uet anybody Into trouble do
you?' I said, 'No,' and kept quiet."
I IN THE MEXICAN SITUATION
Wilson En ters Into Reciprocal Agree
ment With Carranza by Which
First Chief's Troops May Follow
Bandits Into U. S. Territory.
TROOPS STILL AWAITING
FINAL WORD FOR DASH
WASHINGTON, Atarch 13.
repicu uen. uirranza's proposal for a reciprocal arrangement by which
cither his troops or American troops may pursue bandits on either side of
the border.
A note of acceptance was -cnt forward to Hen. Carranza at
(.Micrctaro.
Senator Hurah, Kepublicaii. uri;ed
legislation and iiiiinedi.itel coibivler
in view oi consequence that might arise from the decision to pursue Gen.
Villa in .Mexico.
Chairman Chamberlain of the .Military Committee told the Senate
that in his opinion the United States ami'- did not have enoujrh soldiers to
cope with Mexico or enough equipment. He added he would not be sur
prised to sec an .Mexicans rally around Villa.
Senator Fall, Republican, of New .Mexico, although opposed to the
agreement, said he would do uoihing to prevent it or to stay the United
States army in striking against .Mexican outlaws
I he Senate showed in the speeches delivered that it was squarely
behind the President.
TROOPS NOT TO UK SENT OVER LINE TO-DAY.
Gen. Funston officially announced to-day nt San Antonio that tho ex
peditionary forco into Mexico Is to bo commanded by Urlg, (Jen. John J
I'firshlng. (ion. Funston also said Uiat the troops would not he sent owr
tho line to-day He complained of lack of rolling stock.
An embargo on the shipment of arms or ammunition Into Mexico ts in
effoct and will be strictly enforced, whether tho arms and ammunition are
on tho wny to Carranza or anybody else.
Attorney General Gregory was In conference with the President this
morning. It Is reported that tho Attorney General favors an agreement
between Mexico and tho Tinted States whereby a neutral rone may bs
established along tho entire bordor for a dlslanco of say twonty miles on
each side, over which troops of both nations might movo without formality
in tho pursuit of bandits. Just how a noiitrnl zone of any width would
affect the question of the right of our troops to enter Mexico on a punttlra
expedition In search of bandits does not appear.
There aro signs that antl-Admlnlstrntlon statesmen In Consrema will
seek to mnko political capital out of tho situation. Some of the tnwnbew Of
Countess who hnro been clamoring for Intervention In Mexico for many
months are expected to voice opposition to any plan by which Carranra
would Isj empowered to send his soldiers into Texas, New Mexico, Arltona
ar California.
HcnatorM Stone and Saulsbury of the Foreign Relations Committee dla
itiKfed the Mexican sltuutlon with President Wilson to-day. After the con
ference Senator Stone said he hud found tho temper of Congress with re
spect to the Mexican -Ituatlou "equable and good."
MANIFESTO EX Add Ell AT El), SA YS MEXICAN EMU ASSY.
The Mexican l.'mbussy has assured the Administration that the so
culled Carranza manifesto as published to-day was exaggerated and mis
quoted. Olllclals of tho do facto Government dony that Carranxa has any
intention of assuming a belligerent attitude.
It Is appreciated hero thut whatever seeming strength of language
Carranza might employ would probably bo Intended more for effect on
his own people than on the I'tiited Stat". Carranza knows that the Presi
dent has oideiid I'nlted Suites noops Into Mexico and that they are
going in.
.No definite Infoi nuituiti as to the moMMiitiit of troop i along the border
i ,iliiMin:ihle at the W.ir Deniirtinent A rill v of I leers nrn not nuvln moni.
,- ..... -, - . r imuvu
attention lo tlio statements Gen. Funston makes for publication. For
lolllinrv ic.iiun.-t (leu. Funstnn may be announcing ono thine and rininp
-
another.
alltiougn no uciiniic plans nave m
militia or volunteer forces. It Is quite
and JSpinlsh War veterans wishing to
The United 'Stafes-ffals afternoonac?
the Senate to-dav to dron all other
the national preparedness programme
ri
iffl
- en runaiuerru lor tne utilization Of
possible that militia organizations
Join In h punitive expedition Into
