Pledger
NIGHT
EXTRA
NIGHT
EXTRA
vol.ii.-0-155
PHILADELPHIA, .MONDAY, MARCH 13, 1010.
CortnioiiT, 1010, si Tni rcaua Limii Con r am.
PRIGE ONE CENT
Ctmtmg
,iaj
vs
h
i r
ONE MAN PUT
IN CONTROL OF
, DUPONT FIRM
Stockholders Today Write
Fresh Chapter in Great
Powder Romance
PIERRE DUPONT SUPREME
New Directorate Makes Chief
Defendnnt in $50,000,000 Suit
Master of Company
p 1 du Tont do Nemours & Co.. the
Urnst powder manufacturing concern In
lmerlca, will come under complete con-
JUBMlca, ,,,,. ..I.-,, tlin stock-
1 Si. of that $240,000,000 corporation
.Holders 01 u mi. ttiill.llnir nt W -
ffirtSn for Iielr nnnunl meeting. There
1' ?-T bo Important changes In the
,t:i.,nmt of tlm company. mm wnen tno
m board of director l,s announced It
Kibe ono Pelect'd and framed solely on
Swonnl lines nml dominated by one In
Sal Ho Is I'lerro S du Pont, prosl
!" of the powdo- company and principal
S nmdant In a JBO.ono.noo suit now pend
lXi"n the Vnltcd .-States District Court.
The purposo of tbo proxy-soliciting
Mmnalgn was to prevent tbo rc-electlon
Jfthreo men to tho board of dlrectois of
the company Two of thorn had offended
nerre S. du Pont nml tils following by
tocomlng parties to a milt which alms to
force tho president and 11 other directors
of the company to turn over stock vtltiod
it more than fcW.000,000 to 12. I. du Pont
it Nemours & Co. Tho third man It to
be removed becuuso ho Is known to bo In
eympathy with tho complainants In tho
tult
One of tho thrco men referred to li
Alfred I.dil Pont Ito was vlco president
cfthe company until Jnnuary 10, when ho
announced his Intention of becoming a
pjrty to tho suit. Tho defendant direc
tors In tho litigation comprised a ma
jority of the board of directors nnd thoy
promptly retaliated by requesting his res
ignation from tho vlco presidency.
The second director who Is to bo re
moved Is Francis 1 du Tont, ono of tho
leading chemists nnd Inventors of the
United States nnd n man who has been
largely responsible for tho successful
progress or tno pownor company.
The other director who Is to be deposed
today Is 'William du I'ont. who has for
years been known ns ono of tho most nblo
men on tho present board and Is a vlco
president and member of tho Finance Com
mittee of tho corporation. Ho was
formerly president of tho Itepauno Chem
ical Company, tho dynnmlto branch of the
da Tont Company nnd was tho chief
factor In tho remarkable development of
that end of tho business. Although ho
has sided with neither faction in tbo suit
now pending in tho United States District
Court William du Pont has iihvnys stood
wth Alfred I. du Pont In questions con
cerning tho policy of tho powder company.
lv in tno proxy-soliciting campaign or.
t nerre a. uu i'ont unu nis associates zi
f men were slated to comprlso the board of
t irctiurs lur uio uuiiliug J cur. i wcivo vi
r tontlniinl nn lnr- Nln. f?nlnnin Tivn
TWO IDENTIFIED
. I SHOOTING OF
MILL CASHIER
Suspects Loitered Near
Plant in Kensington Last
Friday, Witness Says
PRISONERS ARE SULLEN
MtchAftl Tnf.rMiUl' and TneAnVi ItTatniitln-
"M were Identified today e.s two of tho
fUnmen ImnllprttArl In ihn IHIIIntv nf TTar.
ilioaa Kastenliifir. paymaster of the Ger-
I htlnln Itr A . iji -m
-uwiw nuraicu miiis, inuinna avenue nnu
!A street, and tho wounding of "Walter
Haupt, his assistant. In a J3500 hold-un
a list Friday.
I Sullen and with disheveled hair, tho
"at through the hearing. Thoy wero
(-61(1 On ft rhftMvn nt ImmlnlJA Vi. Rfnnln
.utta pnnock, at Central Station, for fur-
UlJtP hiorlnn A m.
iaVi. i s ,IM aionuay, xnoy wero jea
bl. a m 8IlenCG
wyvo identification wan mado by Ed-
wtru Donnnllv rt lion t-i,j ..A..n
. -- mum i 1'iutintuiU uvuiiuci
, , "other man, supposedly Samuel Greon-
'Zm'?."" ,H wniea, loitering about tno
Dull FrMnv mn.niHn am 1..1
E Haves.
SAW THEM HUSH OUT.
"This man Toorchuk," he said, "asked
no lha tiTnn s nAtAu t - 1.1-...
t, iab v :"" " w .,, 4. saw u uiui;k-
i K concealed by a handkerchief,
f? i.(.:00?:huk'8 coat Pocket. Two hours
1 aI ,en x rtueil past tho mill." he
MtTi. 1 uw lwo mcni one carrying a
"" Ko In tho mill. I learned later
i . a ' cro 'vuHiening anu Jiaupt.
W X.VI unJlmrte3 Toorchuk nnd Kopu
fe sWiiu?ued out of the door. Toorchuk
(h v ""."! uuuer ma arm anu
tth Tir " daubnff his bleeding hand
Toorrllowed Konu"nskl up an alley,
off mvU.k ?? un n Btreet- When I pulled
a. at t0 run faster I knocked down
let ir!Iii8n,d. ,n BtI'Plng to pick her up I
aw d '"fk,,get away- Both the men
1 thv ... n. u,"creny now rrom what
B m ',B men."
Toofchuk'a sqnlntlng eyes narrowed In-
Concluded on I'uge Tlirtf, Column One
THEWEATHER
FORECAST
PartL fM'fMpMa and vicinity
XhX Ci?udH and MBhtly colder to-
mILFu"v Ml; moderate
rthrly winda.
i At- J.J..f . .
- - umna see page 15,
LOST atit. rnTTTjT.
tSriAinrII!tVi,"ilr! neoklace lo Sn.Il.n-
JUurint iiyKV- f UV ofBookblnd.-W-.rn
-a and Walnut . . a Dm..nt
tSs.ST0 y'yp'.'a, - y wril u
BQI a. w- w- -..,.
i'll ft Co., 802 ctuat-
t:f,XT?i! T"!!"1' even'n. Mrch T. In
utft"R;rtJ feS?ncl ana Platinum lar
assraraSsrc
PvSraWn0!10- tJwen Montague, on
lJioi?"tsr ,,war,J- nk Brooke.
I ! .vb4 row." A4tt,P JU 1
POSSIBLE MENACE IN MEXICO
XWov-u
VENUSTIANO CARRANZA
The Mexican chief's nttitudo toward the contcmplntcd American
punitive expedition into Mexico 19 Rivinp the State Department
concern. It is recoRnized that his announcement that no "invasion
will be tolerated" holds possibilities of troublesome complications.
FRENCH STORM
FOE'S TRENCH IN
LE PRETRE WOOD
Germans Continue Bom
bardment of Verdun De
fenses on North
FRENCH SHELL CONFLANS
rAUtf. Srn'rclt- in.
French troops In their counter-attacki
against tho left wing of tho Conii.ui army
menacing Verdun have scored a success,
tho French Wnr Olllco announced in an
ofllcldl coinmuninuo Issued this after
noon. Tliis success was won In I.o Pretro
forest, where tho French troops pene
trated a Herman trench on a front of
200 yards Tho French returned to their
orlglunl lines after setting oft mines.
The communhiuo states that thero was
no Infantry action In tho Verdun region
last night, but tho bombardment continues.
Tho text of tho communique follows:
Thoro wns no Infantry action In tho
region to tho north of Verdun. Tho
bombardment continued during tho
night ngalnst Hethlncourt nnd In tho
region of Douaumont, as well ns In
tho Woovre region. In tho sectors of
Moulalnvlllo and Itonvaux our artil
lery Is showing great activity on tho
ontlro front.
In I.o Protre forest a body of our
troops penetrated nn enemy trench
near Croix dea Cannes on a front of
about 200 yards. Having exploded
mines nnd caused pome losses to tho
enemy, this body of troop.i returned
to our lines with 20 prisoners.
Ono of our bombarding groups In
a night flight threw 30 shells ot largo
callbro upon the railway station of
Conflans, whero flvo houses nro known
to have been set on lire. Though
violently Bhelled, all our machines re
turned undamaged
BHrUalN, March 13. No mention of
fighting In tho Verdun region Is contained
In tho olllclal report Issued by the German
"Wnr Olllce today.
It Is stated, however, that tho artil
lery duels are Increasing In violence all
along tho front.
Four more Allied aeroplanes hae been
destroyed by tho Germans.
Continued on rase Four, Column Tiro
BAN ON BAD 'BLOCKLEY'
BOOZE; VICTIM DIES
"Either Liquor Quits or I Do,"
Says New Superintendent
of Smuggling Practice
The smuggling of liquor Into "Wockley"
must stop. It continued until a dentil
resulted. The new superintendent of the
Philadelphia Hospital announced tils ulti
matum today "either liquor quits 'Block
ley' or I do."
Michael Salmon, 63 years old, was ad
mitted to the Institution a year ago and
put In the "drunk ward." He was appar
ently cured and became an attendant In
the boiler room. Yesterday he was found
Intoxicated and Buffering also from some
other poisoning besides that of alcohol
and today he died. How he got the liquor
Is not known. Arlon Craig and Stonewall
Jackson, a negro, Inmates of the hospital,
were caught recently with liquor which
they had smuggled Into the Institution,
and they were sentenced to six months In
the House of Correction on Saturday.
Craig was caught climbing over the
wall separating the Institution from
Woodlands Cemetery; he had a half-pint
bottle of whisky In his pocket. Stone
wall Jackson had gotten a card to permit
him to leave the place for several hours.
He returned with a half pint suspended
by a piece of string down one trouuer leg.
It was not found when he was searched.
So much liquor had been brought In of
late that Inmates on leave of absence were
searched on returning. Since Stonewall
Jackson's original method of deception
the searching will be more carefully done.
Also, the cards for leave of absence will
bo restricted,
KAISER'S PEACE
TERMS KNOWN TO
WILSON, IS RUMOR
Verdict of Verdun Awaited
by Berlin Before For
mal Overtures
HOUSE IS INTERMEDIARY
' WASHINGTON. March 13.
President Wilson, It is understood oil
good authority, hn- In hand, without any
definite uso to mako of them, the peace
terms that are likely to be heard from Iler
lln If tho Crown Prlnco takes Verdun.
Colonel House, shortly after 1,1s return
from Germany, It Is said, laid before tho
President Germany's tentatlo propoials
as modified by recent months of warfare
Colonel Hoiiho did not go to Hcrlln to dis
cuss tho posslblo peaoo terms, but it is
said ho did receive an outline of tho Ger
man leu- of 11 pinper settlement following
tho end of tho war.
Tho terms Germany would consider, con
firmed by high German authority hero, nro
regarded as tho most satisfactory from tho
point of vlow of possible peuce, that have
been suggested up to tho present time.
They prolde;
That German colonies taken by tho
Hntcnto colonics bo returned to Ger
many. That no Indemnities bo demanded
by either side.
That Montenegro, Serbia and Al
bania bo divided between Austria,
Bulgaria and Greece.
That an autonomous government bo
established In Poland.
That Turkey bo entirely freed of
British Influences.
That Germany return Belgium and
thoro portions of French territory
now In possession of tho Kaiser's
men.
That Huscla assume possession of
Persia.
That England remain as Bhe now Is,
neither giving nor receiving anything.
It Is understood that Colonel House re
ported to the President thnt the Hntento
Allies wero unwilling at tho present time
to consider peace. This belief is expressed
also by high German ofllctals. But one
of tho things that Is understood to hae
mado tho Allies firm la determination to
Continued on Page Four, Column I'our
NEW LAW, OLD MAN
TRIES TO END LIFE
Man of G3, Rejected by Com
pensation Act, Makes an
Attemt at Suicide
An attempt to end his life was attribut
ed to the action of tho workmen's com
pensatlon act In the case of Adam Grind
er, who, though 63 years of age, had been
able to hold up his end as a carpenter at
Harrison Brothers, 36th and Gray's Ferry
road. He failed to pass the medical ex
amination required by the new law, and
on two counts, "old age" and "bad heart,"
he was compelled to give up his Job.
He boarded at the home of Charles
Simpson, 4923 Woodland avenue. When
he came back after being rejected by the
examiners he seemed to go rapidly to
pieces; the habit of work being suddenly
abandoned he began to complain of Ills he
had never before noticed. He waa
despondent and Indignant that he would
have to depend on his children In future
for support.
The odor of gas came from his room
yesterday. He told Simpson "It must have
been an accident." Last night gas was
escaping again and this time Grinder was
taken to the Philadelphia Hospital uncon
scious. He will recover. Grinder's work
was to make frames used In the precipita
tion of white lead Until the working of
the compensation lw "found him out,"
as he put It, there had been no complaint
about his tfflcleney.
CARRANZA FORCES RUSHING
TO BORDER, THREATEN ENTRY
OF U. S. TROOPS IN VILLA HUNT
Revolt Believed Under Way and Oppo
sition Certain Unless Reciprocal
Demand for Carranzistas to
Cross Line is Granted
Preparations for Expedition Thorough in Anticipation of
Long and Tedious Campaign Mobilization Con
tinues Aeroplane Squadron Already on the
Move Rangers for Scout Work
Word was received today from Lnredo, Tex., thnt Gencrnl Carrnnzn
wns ruahinR 25,000 troops toward the border in expectation thnt the United
Stntcs would refuse to Krnnt permission for Mexican troops to cross the
border. Ten thousand of these men will po to Juarez, C000 to NoRnles nnd
he other 10,000 will be scattered at other points.
In addition to the 25,000 men Cnrrnnzn is said to bo moving to the
border, he hus 20,000 other soldiers under arms. His total strength, how
ever, is snid not to exceed '15,000 men.
Concentration of Cnrranza troops along the Mexicnn-Amcrican border
was taken ns an indication that tho entry of United States soldiers, to
round-up Villa, would meet opposition, whether with or without the au
thorization of tho do facto government.
Co-operation from President Carranza himself, however, was regarded
ns probable, if President Wilson granted his demand that Mexican troops
bo allowed to cross the American line, if necessary, in pursuit of Villa.
Picsidcnt Wilson nnd Secretaries Lansing and Baker were expected to
frame a reply to tho Carranzo manifesto today.
General Gavira, Carranza commandant at Junrez, has been informed
through State Department agents, that the do facto Government would bo
held responsible for the safety of the 500 Mormon colonists in the Casas
Grandes and Galena districts.
Continued reports from across tho line were to the effect that the
do facto forces wero about to unite with Villa's bands, in n dual effort to
vent their hatred against Americans and seek the overthrow of Carranza.
A new raid was threatened by 150 bandits, who crossed tho border 50
miles cast of Douglas, Ari. They fled when apprised of the approach of
United States soldiers.
The movement of American troops was continued, forces being rushed
along tho border in preparation for the dash into Mexico. The start was
expected to bo tomorrow or Wednesday.
Already the aviation squadron from Fort Sam Houston hns been moved
and is prepared for the invasion.
Troop3 arriving hourly at Columbus, N. M., strengthened the belief that
one of the principal columns to hunt Villa would start from here. Tho 13th
Cavalry, which routed Villa's superior numbers in Thursday's raid, was
being outfitted, apparently to lead tho pursuit.
General Carranza wns slntcd for a conference with his cabinet at Quere
taro, north of Mexico City.
Villa lenders and supporters in El Paso nro being rounded up and nn
embargo has been jjlnccc. on all shipments of arms into Mexico.
MartiaVlaw was declared and went into effect all nlong tho border.
CARRANZA TROOPS -MAY
REVOLT AND FH.IIT II. S.
EXTIIV, OFFICIALS ItKIiIEVK
HI. PASO. Tpx.. March 1.1
C'atrnnzii troops arc concontratlliK along
tho MexIcan-AmerliMii bonier. Whether
it Is to Join forces with tlm United Stales
soldiers: In their hunt for Francisco Villa
nnd his outlaws, or to oppos.o tho American
entry Is not known
Tho fact that tho do fncto gn eminent
forces have apparently abandoned tlm
pursuit of tho bandits leads olllclnls hero
to bellove that n revolt against Carranza
Is under way and that tho United Stntes
will meet opposition not only from Villa
Continued on rate Two. Column One
MARRIAGE A HOLY
BOND, TOO OFTEN
LIGHTLY REGARDED
Rev. I. Chantry Hoffman, in
Lenten Sermon, Deplores Ten
dencies That Undermine the
Family Institution
EXPLAINS DIVINE ORIGIN
Free love nnd the "unholy affinities
that curse with their luro to unfaithful
ness" nnd proclaim atheism wero con.
domned today by tho nev. I. Chantry
Hoffman, pastor of the Lutheran Church
of tho Nativity. In the first of a series
of six t,enten nddrest.es on "The Christian
Family" nt Old St. John's Church, llace
street near 6th.
"God married Adam and Eve nnd estab
lished tho family; colonies of free Ioe
are founded by men nno women who boast
that they have Improved on the divine
method," he declared. "Ilomemakers are
dolnet God's will; homebreakers aro do
ing the devil's work."
The number of divorces Is Increasing In
greater proportion than tho marriages
each year, the speaker said, because of
tho things which marriage opposes.
"Wedlock," he declared, "is opposed to
unwarrantablo celibacy; to nuptials post
poned for financial reasons; to childless
homes because of unwillingness to as
sume the obligations of parenthood; to
domestlo life with expenses which compel
debt beyond tho Income; lo tho double
standards of morality, which permit ono
to accuse the woman and acquit the man;
to the Insanitary and immoral tenements;
to that type of hotel life which "demor
alizes; to the conditions generally among
the rich as well as the poor, which for
bid the formation of ties that bind hearts
and make the home, and to the unholy
atllnltles that curse with their lures to un
faithfulness." Marriage, he said, presupposes obedience
to the Scriptural law of consanguinity
and the Fifth Commandment, requiring
parental consent as well as the require
ment of a courtship to prove mutual con
geniality, the apostolic Injunction to bo
married "in the Lord" and not to be un
equally yoked together, and the reasonable
demand of high character, It Is to be
entered in the fear of Qod. he declared.
The speaker summed up the Christian
teaching of marriage as "ordained for the
purification of the natural affections, the
procreation of the race and the happiness
of those who enter it in humble submis
sion to the Word of Qod " The Christian
t7u&ast&-M f mi Iticv flglvM Xw
II. S. IS KXI'ECTBD TO (.RANT
CARRANZA'S DEMANDS, RUT
WILL (.KT VILLA "ANYHOW"
WAKIIIN'trrOV. Mnrch 13 Precau
tions wcin being taken by high Adminis
tration mllcinls today to limit the. tmuhla
znno In Meilcn The United States was
desirous that I ho Mexican penplo bo re
assured and that "Klrst Chief" Cnirnnza
bo placated.
TI10 Whllo Houso let It bo known that
tho Carrnn7a HUggestlon for a reciprocity
agreement would bo accepted as a matter
of expediency. liy doing so tho United
States would ho emphasizing Its original
Continued on Pok Two. Column Two
SEYMOUR EATON,
BOOKMAN,
DIES OF APOPLEXY
Originator of the "Teddy Bear"
and Founder of Booklovers'
and Tabard Inn
Libraries
FAMOUS AS AN AUTHOR
The man who made millions of Amer
lenns laugh over the ludicrous antics of
the Teddy bears is dead. He was Sey
mour Katon, for '.'0 years a icsident of
Lnnsdowne. A strnko of apoplexy after
supper laat night caused his death In his
home, South Lansdawne avenue, this
morning.
Tho Teddy bears Teddy 11 nnd Teddy
G. were the creations of Mr. Hatou'a
mind Tho clever Jingles made their ap
pearance during tho early part of Itoose
velt's first term nnd wero syndicated by
the author, so that they were printed In
newspapers in -lrtually every large city
of the country.
The Teddy bears were not his only claim
to fame Mr. Eaton was the founder of
the llooklovers1 nnd Tabard Inn libraries,
the forerunners of the circulating libraries
that now place books In a large majority
of the drug stores in this unci other cities.
Mr. Eaton, after establishing the system
In this country, went to England and in
troduced the llooklovers' and Tabard Inn
there.
On his arrival In London he was enter
tained by Lord Northcliffe and other news
paper publishers. Ills methods created
quite a stir in London. Business men and
even the advertising departments of the
newspapers themselves gasped at the elab
orate scale on which he advertised, for he
took full pages and double pages In the
London papers and In other newspapers
throughout England. He was the first
man to Introduce advertising on such a
large scale In the British Isles.
Although the author of a number of
books, many of them humorous, he was
engaged In advertising work. He has
been connected with the advertising de
partment of the New York Times for
the last several years, and spent three
or four days a week In New York. He
preferred Philadelphia and always spent
the week-end In this city.
Mr. Eaton was 67 years old. He was
born In Epplng, Ontario. In 1859. For
seven years he taught district school In
Canada. He was married In 1884 to
Jennie V. Adilr, of Winnipeg, and In
CsBtiaact B lut XkccaV Celiuuy Ttt4
QUICK
AMERICAN COLLEGE MEN WIN FRENCH WAR MEDAL
TAKIS, March 13. Twelve American college men, wotklng with
ambulance corps at the French front, have been cited in oiders of tho
duy and will be decorated with the Trench wni ctoss. Among those
decorated was Powell Tenton, a Uillvcisity of Pennsylvania graduate
who lives in Philadelphia
MlfiS HARRIETTS DIES
Mltu Havrklte Wurls, prominent in Philadelphia hucicty, died
today til the Moiris Apartments, 311 South loth sttcet. She was nn
aunt of Mrs. Joseph Goodwin and a cousin ot S, DaVis Page.
BALKAN OFFENSIVE TO FOLLOW ALLIES' WAR COUNCIL
PAUIS, March 13. An early offcnslvo by tho Allies la tho Balkans la
expected to icsiilt fiom tho Krnml council of war which wns In Hcsslon hero
today. General JolTro, tho French Commanilcr-ln-Clilcf, fresh from tho bloody
battlefield at Verdun, presided. Sir DoiiRlnn Halp, who succeeded Sir John
French ns Commandcr-ln-Chlof of tho British forces In France, represented
ntiglnml. llus.sla nnd Belgium wero nlso represented.
It Is reported that somo of tho lenders on tho Allies' sldo nro Insisting1 upon
nn Immediate offensive ngalnst tho German allies In all tho theatres of wnr.
Such nn offcnslvo Is already under way by tho Ilussians In tho Caucausao and
by tho Italians.
ARMED ITALIAN LINER PERMITTED TO SAIL
WASHINGTON, Mnrch 13. Tho State Department today authorized tho
nrmed Itnllnn liner America to elenr from Now York with her guns intnet, under
the stlinilallon that they bo used only for defcnslvo purposes.
ARSENAL RUSHES SUPPLIES TO MEXICAN BORDER
Twenty cars lilted with clothing, tents nnd other Riipplles for 10,000 United
Stnles soldiers, supplied by tho Schuylkill Arsenal, In this city, nro on their
way to tho Mexican frontier, having been dispatched early today from tho
nrsennl within ten hours nfter notice had been received from Washington.
Colonel George if. Penrose, commandant at the arsenal, said that supplies for
50,000 soldiers wero on hand nnd that 2300 men wero employed In tho manu
facturing plant.
"TWO BIT" FIRE COSTS CITY $80 TO RESPOND TO ALARM
It cost tho city JS0 to nnswer nn alarm of fire which caused 25 cents
damage today In tho machine shop of George C. Decker, nt 37 Strawberry street.
Statisticians IlKiiro that this cost to tho city is duo to the wear and tear on
apparatus, telegraph wires, fuel nnd other miscellaneous waste. Tho flro waa
caused by an employe, who filled a stovo with excelsior. The blazo was extin
guished with a bucket of water.
PLANTS RUSH MUNITIONS FOR U. S. GOVERNMENT
Besides rushing foreign munition orders the Remington Arms Company, nt
Kddystono, today Is working on nn order for 1,000,000 rounds ot cnrtrldgcs foe
tho United States Government. Other orders for nrtillery shells of tho typo used
by field nnd mountain batteries aro now being tilled by tho Mldvalo Steel Works,
at NIcctown. Ofllciala ot both plants refused to dney or confirm n report that tho
munitions wero being ordered by tho United Stntes in view of tho Moxlcan
situation.
BERLIN NOW ISSUES POTATO CARDS
BERLIN, Mnrch 13. I'olnto cards, tho Issuanco of which has been made
necessary by tho shortago due, It is asserted, to speculators holding out for
higher prices, will tnko their placo with tho bread and butter cards In Berlin on
March 20. The first catds will cover a 60-day period and will allow tho holders
to purchase 11 English pounds of potatoes every 12 days, probably at tho uniform
prico of 05 pfennigs (about 16 cents).
BRITISH AEROPLANES DRIVE OFF GERMAN RAIDER
LONDON, Mnrch 13. A German emplane was sighted from North Fore
land nt midday yesterday. Aeroplanes from Dover stnrted to attack and tho Ger
man turned eastward. North Foreland Is a chalk cliff on tho Kentish coast
jutting Into the StraltB of Dover, south of tho Thames estuary.
BRITISH AUXILIARY STRIKES MINE; 14 PERISH
LONDON, Mnrch 13. It Is officially announced nt tho British Admlralt that
the mcrcantllo fleet auxiliary Fuuvctte. of 2014 tons gross, has beon sunk ns
the result of Rtrikltig a mlno off tho east coast of England. Two officers and 13
members of tho crew wero lost. Tho Fnuvetto formerly wns In tho service of
the General Stenm Navigation Company, Limited, of London. Tho vessel was
built at Middlcsborough In 1912. It waa 315 feet long, 43 feet beam and 18
feet deep.
"FOKKER KILLER" BRINGS DOWN EIGHTH FOE
PARIS, March 13 Sublieutenant Georgo Guynemer, successor to Pegoud,
Garros and Gullbcrt, Is ngaln acclaimed tho hero ot tho air, for, according to
last night's official communique, Guynemer has accounted for his eighth enemy
noroplano and has made moru securo his tltlo "Tho Fokker Killer." That part
of the communlquo relating to tho latest daring exploit of Guynemer and "la
VIeux Charles," ns Ills splendid wnr noroplano Is called In Frnnce, reads as fol
lows: "This morning Sublieutenant Guynemer brought down a German neroplane,
which fell In flames Insldo our lines near Thlescourt. This Is tho eighth aero,
piano brought down by this pilot, six having fallen within our lines and two
fnsido tho German lines."
"CURB DISORDERLY NATIONS," SAYS ROOSEVELT
PORT OF SPAIN, Trinidad, Mnrch 13. At n tmnquot at tho Union Club, a
commercial and ngrlcultural body, Colonel Roosoelt, In tho course of an Inter
esting speech, declared that International progress depended Just as much upon
the refusal to submit to International wrongdoing ns it did on refraining from
committing a, wrong. Ho ndded; "If n nation Is powerless either to hold Its
own or to secure respect for tho rights of others, or to do right within Its own
borders, If It falls Into a condition of mtsrulo nnd unarchy, then it has no right
to bo treated as a self-respecting nnd Independent power In international matters.
Wo shall havo to take steps with regard to disorderly nations that do not hehuva
themselves and are festering sores In the International body politic."
CHINESE TROOPS MENACE REBELS STRONGHOLD
WASHINGTON. March 13. Dispatches to the Chinese Legation here from
Peking Indicated that the revolution was well In hand, and probably would be
crushed In a short time. Ono dispatch says; "The Government troops, lifter
having taken Suchow, Klangan and Nahk'l in the southwest of Szechuan, hava
crossed the Klncha-Kiang or the Golden Sand river In Yunnan and are rapidly
marching towards Yunnanfu, the occupation of which will terminate the trouble
In that Isolated region. The distance between the Golden Sand River and
Yunnan Is only 100 miles and can be easily covered by a few days' forced march, "
RIO JANEIRO CROWDS CHEER FOR ALLIES
RIO JANEIRO, March 13. Germany's declaration of war on Portugal has
called forth expressions of sympathy in many quarters here with the cause; of
the Entente Allies. Saturday night there were enthusiastic demonstrations In
the streets of the capital, the crowds cheering for the Allies. The Epocha,
commenting on the government decree of neutrality, says: "We are not neutral.
We entertain the most ardent wish for the victory of Portugal and the Allies,
and In order that that raa.- become a reality the majority of Brazilians will do
all that they are able, both from a material and a moral point of view."
GERMANS URGED TO MAINTAIN COURAGE
BERLIN, via Amsterdam, March 13. The Koelnlsche Vo,lkszeltun.c urges the
Germans to maintain courage, saying; "The last part of all wars Is almost the
niost painful. Wo are ready for peace, but In making peace we cannot be alone.
As long as ur enemies will not admit that their attempt to crush us Is futlw
we mustSoaon. We can only win by sacrificing everything and using oyer
meiMHajfto".'mmoi limit, 1 we dQ we efc&U win,"
NEWS
i
n
1
A
it
tJ-
gijfiafcil
