THE WEATHER FORECAST.
tm.
IT SHINES FOK ALL
Rain to-day, warmer:
colder: sput
Highest temperature yesterdi
'II
Detailed weather, nmll and lmtrlnc.
VOL. LXXXIII. NO. 195.
NEW YORK, MONDAY, MARCH 13, 1916. t'o-oriffhf.llilfi.oj, the Kim Print!,,,, on l',ibll,t,tnu .iMorlnlloi.
PRICE
CENTS.
jJE'QiBMTBppBiJ mf7J ntvv.
-
TWO
It
LULL IN VERDUN
BATTLE; ONLY
BIGGUNSACTIYE
Twentieth Day of Struule
Passes Without lni'tm
tr.v Attack.
okiuiaxs capt.ij.e
tkexch at eta1x
Jli'iiv, Bombardment Di
rected Against Line West
of the Mease.
FIIKXCH AVIATOI!
WINS XEW LATH ELS
(iii.viicmer. Only 21 Years
Old. liriiigs J)(wu His
Eighth Aeroplane.
ui, tti'ilr lifpatrh l Tub
.i..f, .March - N" Infuntry attack
ni.i'lc by the (Icrmmw liiimmi-rlnK at
d." c.ilc of Verdun to-day, the twen
tin. i iUy of the battle. althoiiKh their
lt..lvr hlio-l oliMerublo attlvlty
oi. Iwth i-idej of the MeUM. Thu
I nil. i suiw were ciually aothc. 1om
iraau' omt In the ravlno to the north
ot .! 0tu du I'olvre, where iScrnuui
(jihiit. iiv belli, lonccntratcil, and shell
.r.s lifiinan iMttcrUn t of l.ouveinont.
T.w altacUs were made by the Her
nial, li.-t illicit . one. executed by a ftuall
frLi- .uliiwl with hand rirenmlei", was
Jlre.teil airaliiat the Wuwli adjolnlne the
Lvle tin J'oire. This iittuck win. euslly
cipued. The MtMiid. uuidu after ar
i.llei; ire)aratlon in tne region north of
t.lx. imc the HermatiH a Binall trtnch
iiiiiur, the Ktulll ivad.
rtlller Active.
?, )'ieiiiinu ailllh ry dlre el heavy
bem ..iidmeiits lai-t nixht .iKuluit the
u.-di-.l hlllf fouth of Vllle-aux-Holf, I
r,o. t!i ot the AImic ; on the llothlncourt
t.m went of the Mcuxo and on the
LV'Jaiiniolit-Vaux line to the cai-t of the
Me:. No effort h.ia been made by the
!.: :nati to repeat the attack on the
uU ..l!.llj.
The 'ittlcl.it communique iiued to.
r.x-,t .iniiouiiceH that Sub-I.lmt. tiuyne.
mer tirous it down hl.i eluhtli Herman
neruiiliiie thl.s mornltiK near Thlnucourt.
Anothci 1'rench aviator nb-o brouifht
iVin a Oirman machine. The Trench
irlatum fouifht olBhtcen aerial ensrace
mthti! yeytPixluy In tho region of Btaln,
putting their adversaries to flight.
Hilt (inn Active
Tli" ottlcl.il wnmiinlqu' l8iil by tho
PrmiJi War (Jlllce to-nlsht follows:
Sou'h of tho Soinme we dlrectid u
(iect. inn ve tli o on the eiieuiy works
It. I'n t of Maucourt and betvuen the
(.. .' id the Aljtne on the defensive
o jir ,t. 'i ni. in the region of Xnuvron.
ft, ! ... Vi.fnon. n fv.nr.etif pilleil llro I
il 1 .iL-iinst the Hols de Clieppy I
d iii .i.s iel hevenil enemy olmervatlon
I'O-'S.
i i t to irciori north of Verdun ther
,! i mtaif;ry action In the coiirso
o' ti.e iai The boiiibanlmt nt by both
file- iv i of some violence on Iwth
t ..1 .f the Metup. Our hi" ivy at
tl ii auitlit under Its lire UhIir of
fietuj i h i 4 useeiiibllnis In the ravine
r h or the I'irte du i'olvre and !cr
r. i . alleiies in tne leirlon wml of
I" IV ' of..
' k Ilan-ile-Saiit diftrlct we de
c i l .iipfiMiiu tr nches In tho i rcion
Cf -i 'lO-lei
l.eriiiaii l-'ller Itonlril.
'''' tnorniru Sub-I.leu' 'iueie-
f oiii'i," down a (ieruuin aerotilnne
In ll.nn-s Inside our lines
r'' T i iuiiurt This Is the elpV'th
i , brought down hy this pilot.
' . e .lain machines f II wl'hln
ard two In the Herman lines.
'' nf our aviators fiNo hroutrht
I .1. pllftliv n.irr.lila .... tfltliln nnp
O'P
At
raw
li . riomb.isle, n tho Aisronne.
T e rniieis of tho two destroyed
n .. h i i were killed.
'r- ' i same day our sroupH of tintttn
'lines took (i.i rt In eighteen aerial
n.ijrenintn in the region of VA.iUi.
course ot which their adver
"r" 'vr. put to tllffht.
text of the aft moon communique
foil r
'" "' the ,tsne the artillery
riiicK-. ,1H Vvry n.-tiye in the retfion
Hie wo.jiled hill south of Vllle-aux-
O t e left bink of the Meusc. n
i 'i-ciM of Ilelhiiicourt. the bom
t" in,, rt was IntPiise.
" tie .ight bink o the river n
irs, I 'icriniri hand ren.we attack
fdr t i. woods, adjacent to the Cote
flu IVivte mm easily repulsed.
r ie bomb.uilnieiit 'continueI violent
'' of I'ort Doiiaumont and In tho
"Hon of l-ort 'auv. whero the enemy
y 'K;1, Siy h"; I
m..." m, ,,eu .,ln, , .h!
f'.ii'ea i above which llses tho fort.
1 'In Woevre. at the chwo of yes
"r l Hie normans after nrllllerv
I'f.i.ir.ituju took from us during ah
"," k i small tieneli ntljolnlng the
' " "'ad to the north of Klx.
I" l.oriaine theie were encounters
' a patrols to the west of Arrnn
court On .he ,est of Hie front tliere was
no evem of Importance to report.
'i'i iiemer Wins AkhId.
f.iiiiKPK (liiynomer, another of whose
"r.,il exploits Is reported to-day, D only
I yp'ir old. vel Ihrnoirh Ills vn1nll
" s military aviator ho has won tho
th o- ' ""nor, the Military Medal nnd i
hen . .'r,.'w', wlm " ,mlm ,h" rlh-1
' en or the ;,t ntimeil for each of the ,
.-rm-in machines, ho has brought to
M'li.
" wi.r began and volunteered In tho
"viBtion nrrvh-e, without waltlnc for his
to be called out. He had been
round unfit for military service hy
eriler xninlnlng boards. He obtained
(" hllol's Ik-erne In August. 1916. II
rouiiht down his Unit Clerman machine
he .. . i .". """ent when I
is W'lir beir.in nn,1 vrtlunt..e1 In 1
Continued on Talrsl Pagr, 4
URGES GERMANS TO HOLD OUT.
Cologne ,,er llrK I'cnulc .Not In
l.ii.r Ciinrnuc.
fiptrlnl Ctblf lletptilch lo Till. Ms
Hr.ni.i.v. via Amsterdam, March 12,
Tho Rnvlniwhn VotkiUy urges the
Hermans to malntnln murage, saying:
"The Inst part of nil wars I nlwu)
tho most iNilnful. Wo are ready for
De.-ico, but in making peace v aim.it
be ulune. As long ns our enemies will
not admit th.it their attempt to crush tin
Is futile we must go O!.. W ran only
win liy s.icrltlclnt! ever) thing .imi using
every mean to tin- utmost limit. if
we J.) wo hull win."
STARVING GERMANS MUTINY?
Oiithr.-nk lnill linrrlson
iiiclle.l by 'nnlry.
Sptriol Valile fHileh to Tub Six
Pi:tiiiiiiap. M noli 12 This Dwinsk
cot respondent of the ltmirnr Ctf.ittr
telegraph Ihu tin- Herman garrison
lit Mh.'ivll mutinied u it rctult of short
age of food. The mutiny v,in quelled
liy cavalry,,
An offlrcr mid thro. soldiers were
killed In tin- light ami nine rliwlnudrr.
of the niullny weie executid.
POTATO CARDS FOR BERLIN.
I'roilnellon ,,r fakri 1'urlilililrn
Miorlnur iirrnil.
IlKlil.lN, via leiitdoti. .March 11'. Iler
lin will hale iMilato carilx on .March 20.
Announcement to thin itTect was made
to-day with a view to warnlliR Hjiecil
If tors holdliu; out for hlBher lirlies to
piotlt from tin- DliortaKe which l re
hlKinslblo for the new incisure, Identi
cal with tln,o taken concerning bread
ami butter
The flrl cards will be lsueil fr a
period of sixty la)s. Holders may
liurchase ileien Ihmllsli pounds of pota
toes every twelve ilns, the price to be
uniform. The Hurcoiiiaxtcr In niiuounc.
Int," the nuasure asserted the opuli
tlon tia been IIvIiib from hand to mouth
an far n liotatoes are conccriUHl.
The production of nil eukes ina.le of
white, rye or potato flour has Ix'en for
bidden by the military authorities to
t.veen March l:i and 19. They are
not lo be cold between March 15 ami I'.i.
This Is due lo the leieut bread short
aire AUSTRO-BULGAR FORGE
ATTACKS RUMANIANS
Many CaMialfips lleportod in
Clash on Oanulie May
I'ush Nation to War.
iiieclal latilt llrrixjfli to Tilt Sin.
t.o.viM.x, March 1,1, The Odciv.a cor
respondent of the Putty .Wot te'eeniph
the follow illK
"An etin.meuient a rejricd bttween
llumanlans and Unitarian near l.okova
lltahovoT) A lliilcarlati frontier f JUd
find from trenches on a l'umatilan ship
which was loadiri; a barge In tie.
Ilumalil.in zone. The Utilitarians sig
nalled to an Austrian Kunbo.it. "hlch
ordered the ltuni.inlan vessels to the
Hulcarlan xhore. The I'.umanlatis Ig
nored the order. Tim iiunboit then
fired with machine cutis and rifles, The
Itumanlan troops replied. There were
hvmy casualties on both sides."
Tho Sofia correspondent of the llerlin
I'nwiVAr Zci(iih( teleu'ratihs, accordlnB
to a ilespHi h from Anist. rd.im. that It
is exp'.cfed that Uiimaiiia will shortly
ibrtde in favor of Intervention on the
side of 1110 l.nter.le.
"The Itutn'inlnn Minister to lluUMrla."
tne correponuem sii.-, is rAiut:ii iw
I return to Soili with lustructlonn which,
1 It Is Keneiiilly iissuincd. will settle tile
f unite i elation between HulRiirU and
Itumanl.i."
A ti'leitram from llucharet says tht
session of the ltuin.itii.it. 1'arllautfut his
been exti tided to March -S.
A llucliarest desiutrh ha)s Itumnnla
nnd Itussla b.e cutuludcd an agreement
by wlilch Kiiik rordliiatid'e kliiKilom lu
to aid actively the Hliti'tlte AllliM.
The ai.rcemeht Is Miiil to Inolude per-
1 mission for Uumaula to purchase war
iliaterlals In ItusM.i and to transport
thtouali Itussl.m territory materials
Isiintht eSewhere lu return for her co
operation. I'li'shi will irlve Itumanl.i art
of l!i '.uabl i. tile ibiatch says.
Sofia ileKp.iuhi s.iy that all Serbia
has lieen divided into heienteen iW'part
incuts ami elsht.i -i-lx districts lu the
uoiiise of ItuUrii Iu'h apiiortloulnu the
o(cuplsl Serbian territory for Oovern-
' inent purioje.s.
ivach department ha a court, each
; district a lower onurt and the who!
country Is under the Jurisdiction of three
appellate courts. K.ich department uluo
11118 Olll! lirlhOII.
Ilal.ovo Is on the Hulsarian side of the
Danube, elithty miles northeast of Sofia.
It is ahuut a hundred niihs directly wont
'of Ilustchuk and I2U miles southwest of
liucharcht.
FOR A NATIONAL REFERENDUM.
' Halle). Mr) nil's pokemnii In
j House, Will Present Hill To-dny.
WAsnt.snTos:. March ID. Iteprewnta
tlve H.illej of Pennsylvania, llryan's
' spokesman ill the House and the most
conspicuous of the small coterie of autl
i preparedness advocates, will Introduce
.a national refeienihiiu illl to-morrow
which he calls a "public opinion meas
ure. Its siBiimcaiifc, no sii), is on-
vlu- I" lt recent controversy
betwieu tl... Prosi.lcut and Congress on .
the Mibmarliie Issue and the question
I of Increased expendltuies for tho army
and navy. Mr. Ilalley adds that both
the President and Congress nro pro
l ceedlng more or less In the dark, no
mandate having neen rereivtsi irorn me
people on either of theso great ques
tions. Mr. Ilalley describes his bill ns sim
ple. It providm that upon the llllng
Willi the Secretary of the Interior of u
petition signed by nno.nnu or more citi
zens qualified to vote 'for membeiH
of Congress any question of national
policy shall lie submitted to tho voters
of the country for guldanco of the offi
cials, of the Hoverninents The Kerre-
... ,.r the Inlerlor would forward the
auestlon to the State authorities, who
would 'submit It to tho people at the
following general election.
h .
Think Woineii Died on Zrpprlln.
s.,fCla, Cable )p;kicA lo Tan St v
' ... .....
I'amih. March 12. Tho I'efii mrlaien'i
ncenunt of tho lirlintlnK down of a Zen.
pellu at Itevlgny by the trench sun
Bests that there were women aboard the
airship. Two slender feet hod with
high topped, high heeled fashionable
boots could plainly be discerned In the
burning wreckage. 4
GERMANS PREPARE
FOR NAVAL BATTLE
Tlieir Chief Hope Hincil in
Siiiti'su1iiini in's. Snys
Kottvi'ilani llt-port.
KIlOitTAMK nv SAII.OI.S
Not Knoimli to Man I' I'.oiitsj
Teutons to Stake All on 1
Oesperate Throw.
."iitcml ft,lr fif.itfcA la Tut 'n
I.onpos, March IS. The Itotterdum
corrtspondent of I he Dully Mutt In a
innll (ommunicntloii sent on March 0
pays lie can confirm the report that thn
Herman Meet Is preparlntt to futlit the
British lleet.
PlscusltiK the reasons for the Herman
decision to accept battle after lefuslnu
It for iiltietcp.ti months, the corrp-potident
suyv :
"Without actlnu on the theory that
If she loses the war fJerm.iny wMl Iimo
lier fleet, Herman statesmen take the
view that If the fleet Is lost Us destruc
tion must first cost the enemy enormous
sacrlflcei".
"No Herman ship -hall in render,"
Is the unwritten order.
"Hut the Hermans will not sacrifice
their fleet merely for the sake of national
sentiment. They will not end their
ships to destruction merely to Me them
selves the humiliation of seeing them
lowed out of the Kiel Cinal The Her
man naval staff Is about to ihalletiKc
(treat Itrltaln's naval supieniacy be
caue they think they can deal that mi
pi putney a sevete If not a deadly blow.
"The Incrcaslm: effect of the blockade.
Internal tiniest and the military menace,
of the Allies undoubtedly have bnd an
Influence on the naa! policy but hae
not decided that polic. only stim
ulated It. '
To t'se Miiicrsiltimnrlncs.
llefertlnii to the universal belief In
Hermatiy that terrible weapons against
the Ilrltish navy have been fumed. th
correspondent describes this belief as
funtatle. He says lie has ground for
scepticism reirardlng the reports of 17
Inch nuns, unslnkable battleships, ills
icoieries in magnetic power applied to
' mines and torpedoo. and ImpregnablB
floatlnc forts, but he belhes that the
' supersubmarltic Is the weafiMti with
which Htrmany "hopes to strike eftec
, tlvely at the Ilrltish navy."
"nernmny," he says, "now possesses
submarines of power and displacement
i undreamed of at tho outbreak of the
. war. It Is claimed that these monster
craft can o.inge us far as India Inde
pendent of any aid. In their hulldliie
trieti liaM- been kept at work night and
1 ilny for months. The best Herman in
' eiitlve and constructlie mind have
been emplo.ied In pcilectliig a huge flo
tilla of siibmarlni s. Kortuuately the
Herman marine staff has fm-ed a eerlous
handicaii. They have muterlals. work
shops atid skilled wotkmeii to build sub
marines, but not sufficient sailors to
I man them.
"The Herman loss m submarine in
' the last few months I greater than the
Ulcrniaii Admiralty caret to confess, They
j do not mind thu loss of the boats us
much as they do the loss of Ibe traltnd
crews. With thilr system of xhott ser
vice the Hermans .iimot turn out
sailors of first class quality, especially
men called to exercise i.ue teihnlcal
kiinwUdge and remarkable physical en
durance lu the cramped chamber of .1
submarine. Nevertheless, news are
being trained speedily and tlTlcleiuly
within the limits of the Herman war
machine."
lo Make DesperHle I'.fTorl.
After detailed rfferetue t the confi
dence of the Hermans lu their fleets
future achlevi inents the corrcsn indent
cays ,
"Putting aside sensational pre arti
cles and Idle cafe chatter, it I a fact
t that In the near future our n ivy will
achieve It great ib'slrn and the m st ter-
, rlble sea fight In hlstnrv will bring the
end of the war In shtht. Herm my is
preparing a hist desperate thtow In
which she will employ all her rn'-otircm
of land, sci and air. Zeppelin are h.
Ing built with feverish speed. The Her
min plan I to forestall the Allies and
strike before our men, suns and muni
tions hao achieved a superiority tint
much Insure, victory.
"The attack on Verdun Is the preludi
to the last phase of the world war. A
blood red dnwn Is rising. Whole atm'es
will be ilestrojed, mighty ships will bo
derelict, thousand of homes will be de
vustated In the awful tragedy of a gr-at
nation rushing to suicide,"
GERMAN RAIDER NEAR DOVER.
Senilism Slahled HIT North I'ore
Innd I I bnseil.
Special Vithtt Mttpntvli lo Tilt Si t
I.ondos, March 12. A Herman sea
plane was sighted from North Korcmd
at midday to-day. Aeroplane from
Dover started to attack nnd the Hci
nian turned eastward,
North Koreland Is a chalk cliff on the
Kentish coast Jutting Into the North
Sea, north of Dover and south of the
Thames estuary.
BAKER NOT BOY SCOUT FOE.
secretary of War n) Ills tlirii
Hoy Will llccomc one,
WABlttNUTON, March 12. Noivton I),
linker. Secretary of War, denied lo-nlghi.
that he wn an pioneiit of the Hoy
(scout inovoinerit. Secretary linker made
i this statement :
"Tho statement that I am opposed to
I tho Hoy Scout movement Is perhaps due
'to tv mlsunUoistiinilliig. There ate two
Hoy Scout nniuulziitlnns, One of tlicin
Is a iretiernl scout movement and the
other Is known us the Hoy Scouts of
A mt lien,
"Tho hitter organization I was asked
some, time ago to Join an a member of
thn lioirit of pivi'iuors and I was sent
li leitter which stated tho object of this
society w.ih to make of America a mill,
tury nation. I nidi. si In that letter stilting-
that I was not lu Hympnthy with a
movement to make this couivtry n mill,
tary nation.
"I think the Hoy Seoul mov enieiil Is
ono of tho llnest ever started. I urn veiy
anxious to have my own boy attain tho
n ge when he can become w scout. Its
Kenernl activities are tins, teaching as'
they do manliness, courage, truthfulness,
Kiiowitugs oi wwracnui ana nature,'
DEATH DOUBT TIES
$3,000,000 ESTATE'
Nolliiiitr Infinite Hcecivcd
A limit. I'tilc of ii. II. V. :
Sflmiilri in I'm- North. ;
Kit; (ilVKIt TO (! A KIT! ES
LclhT Scut to Ireland Is lie-
tnrneil Willi Notation
"head" on Kiivelopc.
!r. II lime! Scliiuid of While Plain
said jestetilay that he bad lecrlied
nothing iltflnll iiiccrninc the report
that Heoige II I' Schrader. foimcily
of Kiookl.Mi, luatiui'iu tiller. Inventor and
philanthropist, died Noveftil.er I J.
It'ir., on a llhlns boat en toute from
Ireland to Noiwa.i
"I have iiceivid a liiiinbpr of ett.i
asking If 1 had icccle, news of Mr.
Sihrader- death." Hi. Scltnild said. "I
was his close peisotial friend and should
have hi eh id some wotd. I doll t Know
whether he is teall tbud. . sent a
cablegram to Inland, but have rectlve.1
no reply."
Iir. Schuild sa d he sent a letter ad-dii'-seil
to Mr .schindtrat Akmeyil. Ice
liud, where he w.i supposed to be living,
and th letter was tcturned marked
"lvad."
'Ibe ltiooklye phllalithioilt left a
will. It I. siihl. but hi- executor cannot
do an) thing looking to the settlement
of Ills Mate lltltll leg.il ptoof i Pic-
suited that .Mi Schrader I dead. .Mr
Schradei lia a sistir living In New
Jersey and .mother In Norway. He is
leputcd to have been worth ill the
ticlghl.onioo.l of i:l,iiOo.00
I'rleiids iiiul aciii,i!ntaiies of Mr.
!v-hrailcr, who ate aw.m of his many
lntiif.u linns, aic (Xtretnely Intercteil In
finding out whether he Is "till olive, us
they are colillilent lu intended to make
piovlslons Im hi will for getieiotls be
quests to charitable Institutions.
Mr. Schrader was the founder of the
Caroline tlest for Convalescent Mothers
and liable at llartsdab. He gave it
to the New York Association for tut
pioiiii the Condition r the Poor. He
I .line lllletested lu the work of the
association in PJOii, when he was nfked
to aid financially Se.i llreize Home.
Caroline Itest cost Mr. S. hrader Itno,.
non originally and he contrlbutid :.".
Ooii a )ear for Its euplwrt.
Mr .Schrader was In tir health when
he left thK country for lediuid. He
planned the trip, he announced, for tho
pun'' "C establishing a home for
ponies found wandering uround the ley
barrens In the nortn.
The l.it lettir tecelved ill this country
from him set forth that he had been
unable to obtain a pa.-spott In Iceland
and he was titiiiu- oliotit star'hu for
Knglaud w:: limit one a t' niigln cause
Hime i tiibiii i-j-tni nt If h" wa mstakeii
for ii Hetmati and titteriud a one. His
,iiie.ir.in.e and illicit wire Herman, al
though he w.i an tnerlc.in i Itiren. Mr
,chr uler wrote that he hoped to take
i.iss,ig,. on ,i trawlir for Norwav, where
he was c. .undent of establishing his Iden
tity and getting the msjessary isis
Virts Mr. Schrader was fonnerl) the head
of A. Schrader's Sons, 7S J Atlantic ave
nue, llrooklu. He wi the Inventor of
the Schrader valve, which I uwl In
almost even automobile lire In the
l'nHc.1 States.
At the ls-ainiiiiig of ih European war
the compiuy aiinouuieil that It would re
frain from manufacturing war supplle
of any liar.u'i"f w hunter. Since tho
war, however, the conceiu's busliiiss ha
greatly Inci eased and the plant ha nl
most hectl douu'.eil.
The Norwegian Hovel iimeut will lw
iu-ke.1 to make an effort, to establish
proof of Mr Sihrailer's death b) means
of alTidnvit of sailors on the boat on
which lie was leportiil to have passed
away.
WARNED TO FLEE MEXICO.
iiicrlciiii IIkmIiin l'rtn lnl'rir
llcuins on Co n so I' iltce.
Sl'tiitil t altlr litt't It tituy. s
N'kii.v Ciiiz. via Halvcston. Mar. li 111.'
I'tilled Slate Consul Williiin W.
I ',in, id. i bus advised all Alltel lean to
have the Interior of MiaIco without ,
del, l) The t Villus ,'ilteavl) has i"-lll.
The Hovel iioi of Vila Cru. his tc
ccivcd uifoi in itlon of tlic preparation
at Hie Under for the American ,itl
lion against Villi ami is displeased at i
the iiimiiiieine of an Invasion.
AMERICAN HELD BY VILLISTAS. '
I, Mill Hlllisoin ent 1'riini 111 I ,
for ('mil It r, '
11. Paso, Tex., March 1-'. All Ainerl- 1
can mining man Is being held for inn
sum hy a small band ot Villa bandits
10ft miles east of ,tnnre, ncinidliiK to a
report received here to-night. A ransom
of It.SOrt w ns sent across for his lelease.
Consul Andles Hnrcla to-night confirmed
the teport thai the Mexico Northwestei n 1
liallroad line had been cut by Vllllstas
near Huzinuii and Hie telegraph line i ut.
URGES VACATION ON GERARD.
l.niisliiic unln Mmuesl, Aintin.sn
dor Miould Leave llerlin,
Wasiiinuton, March 12. Kccretiny
f.ansing states that he has leiH-mted an
Invitation to Ambassador HiT.trd to have
llciiln, as It wiu felt that Mr Herurd
neeils n not, Secretary I.ttHng on two,
pievlou OlHMSlolIM Him Itivitisl Aliihus
sador Het-ird or suggested to him the
advisability of taking a rest nml vain
Hon, but on each occasion Mr. ici-.nd
declined to do so, slating he plefcileil to
stick to his fswt.
Mr Lansing slates that Ambassador 1
Morirenthnii left his mt in Coustiintl
neple as the result of the siiKgestlou that
he could take a vacation, and a like In- ,
vltntiou 1ms been sent to oilier Ain-ba-sadois
iircrcliti .1 to l-'.uiopcan conn
tiles. Mr. Uinslng' sajs that theie Is
noiliing slgnlllciuii in the invitation to
Mr Herard.
CROOKS TO BE CARD INDEXED.
Indue Miami Plans Dlrcelor) of
I lie I'nilc rvinrlU.
District Attornoy Swanii, Commls.
sioner of Coirniloii Lewis, Police Com
missioner Wooi 1 1 and a repii'sentiilive of
thn Charities Department will confer on
Wislneaday for the purioee of formula!,
lug a fiultnblo Index system for criminals
In this city. Judge Swaim's Idea Is to
have a central bureau to which all de
partments may refer to get the history
of any person that comes within their
j jurotdieion.
CAVALRY OF STATES
MAY BE CALLED ON
Pirsiilt'tit CoiiMidors Akiiir
foi' l ive Itcuiinonts. In
e1niliiir Xpw York's.
ft KKAT XEKH OF IIORSKS
inianiry oi lexas. .ew .mpx
ieo and Ari.onn Mnlile
to He Tsed.
U'asiiimiton, March 1 2. Pie-idmt
Wilson Is seilousl) considering the ad
visability of latllnir out five tcglments
of National Huatd cavalry to go to the
border to do patrol duty there In plate
of the regular soldiei who are IhMwj
sent Into Mcx.ro In pursuit of Villa.
In ae the President cnlls on the I
National Ouaitl. cavalry re-flment from
New Vork, Penusylvnnla, Michigan, Ohio
and Illinois, all n garded a "rrwK' rrgl
ments, will 1. chooen for pattol duty at
the ls-gllltllll,t.
Infanlry teglinents lu Texas, New
Mexico and Ailiui.i will also juobubly
be called on, Uach of these Stales has
a eomplefe tenliiieut of lnfanto reiulv
for servhe. Texas lu addition to the
i-eglment of Infantr) has available three
trisip of yttvaliy. Theie are approxi
mate!) sKtv-ilve men in each troop.
Should the National (luard teslinents
lie rent to the iKirder their service will
be confined lo American soli utiles a
general war with all faction In Mexico
rrsuli
Term of Hie lis) c.
In that event, under the terms of the
Hay act. which was passed at the time
of the taklnir of Vera (.'rui! two years
ntro. the National Uu.ird regiments will
have an importunlt) to enlist as n body
In the volunteer army Should war en
sue and should they enlist the regi
ments which are being sent to the bor
der are most likely to see ervloo In
Mexico earlier than other militia or vol
tinteer organization
OfYleer of the War 1 cpiirtinent took
occasion to iiolnt out to-day how the
development In Mexico during the last
week have emphaslied the nrc.!)' of
Celling adequate National (luard lels
latlnti lefnre the end of tint present ses.
slon
"The Ptesldent Is sahl to want live
legimetits nf c.i v.ilry," said one officer,
"but tie- -Votlon.il Ou:,rd cannot furnish
these regiments at present ful'y equipped
to take the field The Illinois and New
York rfgimenls are the best In the conn
tr). If they are called on the rrgulir
.mm- establishment must furnish mot
of their mounts.
"I doubt If any of tho three crack
csjvaky regiments can take mine than
COn hot ses to the border They will hnve
to inke at least !m'h men for each regi
ment .mil the Hov eminent tnut furnls'i
the tnblltioral bursts The men In thee
teclments are tine sn dlers and If they so
to the border thev will lender a good
acioiint of themselves either on this side
or I he othet
"The situ itlon emphasizes the neces
sity of legist itlon from Cong'te not
onl) vtovlding for a skeleton of a Na
tional Huard for defence purposes, but
for a real National Hunrd with nil of
the es'entinls."
Machine lions Neeileil.
Another nfTicfr s.ilil that und.r the!
ile.il regn.atloi s each cavalry n glinent
should hive four machine gum,
"t do not know how the lll.nois .null
New York .iglmenlH are fixed for ma-1
chine stuns,' he sa.d, "but If anv tegi-1
me-its nro up to the icgu'sitloiis fuey
tire uie to have such guns Theie
should be o gun with ench troop, that
Is. twelve to H regiment. The regulnr
armv will have t'i furnish mint of these
gtms and polli all of them for the
assembled leglinents.'1
Another officer of (lie at my pointed
out dial In the p.ans for the uc of the
Nntloiml Huard now ami especially for
the future, pain sliould be taken to In
sine o sufficient supply of moutits,
"The Mexican eumvalgn," he said,
"1 going to ln hauler on horses than
men. The army at the present time has
only about enough hoiscs for Its own
men. There ale nowhere neir enotieb
on hnnd for the Notional Huard cavalry i
regiments or for a volunteer cavalry In J
case one I oigaiiizcd, I
"I feci It will l.e .llfTlcu't to get suffi
cient nurses or the proper kind. This
country has luen i!ep"eted of Its bct
army hoiscs and mules dining the last
elKhteen months.. Agents or the Allies
have purchased practlrally everything
nvnllable for service. No action wa
taken to prevent the depletion of the
supply Now that we need horses, prob
ably more than men, they are going to
he mighty difficult to get "
X. Y. CAVALRY READY.
Illinois Also Iteports a ItcKlmrnt
Prepared.
Membeis of the National Hunrd when
told last night that President Wilson Is
consldetiiig the question of calling on
the cavalry of New Vork and other
States for duty In tho .Mexican situation
said the i mire cavalry orgsnltutlou was
ready to leave at any time,
A commanding officer declared that
the men would be dellghtid If callul
out Theie arc four squadrons of
mount. 'I ir.sip in the militia of this
State, constituting one regiment and an
extra squadron i they are the Klret lligl
ment miller Col. Charles I. Dt Hevols
and Squadion A, cnnimaiided bv Major
William It. Wright
In response to inquiries from Tut: Si-n
regarding the cavalry In other States
Hial Pnsldciit Wilson may cull on. the
follow lug Information is given In de
spatch, s: .
Illinois .an furnMi on twenty-four
hours notice a reg,iV,..'nt of cfivalry re
cruited to a full stieugth of olllcers nnd
men nnd lu first class condition for ser
vice, Till teglllienl, the l-'lrst, Col, M.
ton J. roreiiian commanilliig, Is coin.
Iised of twelve troops with machine
gun detachments. All except three of
the Hoops are stationed In Chicago,
Michigan has only two (roups of cav
air), Tioop A of South Haven and Troop
11 of Detroit. Ilach troop Is leciulted
up lo pence strength of sixty. live men
mid three olllcers
Ohio has three cavalry troops, Troop
A In Cleveland, Tioop II 111 Coluiuht
and Tioop C lu Cincinnati, K.ich Ins Km
men,
Pennsylvania couid furnish a invali)
icglnieiit of twelve troops, which aver
lino about seveuty-tlve men each, and
also the I'll st and Second troop of
Philadelphia, the Huvernor's hoop of
Hnrrlshurg and the Hherldsn troop of
.Tyrone,
ALL MEXICO WILL FIGHT
U. S. INVASION, IS REPORT;
FEAR CLASH AT JUAREZ
-Mexican Soldiers Near .Mil
lin.v. Talk of Kopollim.'
"the (.Hugos."
IIONTILK .MOVE SEEN
IJY AI'.MY OFFICEHS
Ciii iiiiiii Hushes TroopH to
Keen force Border
(arrisons.
VILLA IS KEC031Lti
AX "IDOL" AOAIX
r.
S. Forces Taking posi
tions for Entry and
Line Patrol.
111. Pas... Te.x. March 12. Carranz.1
force unit not those of the bandit
leiidt:r Villa will be the Ilrs.t to oppose
the Invasion of Mexico by the I'liUed
Slute, iiccnrdlng to stcrct service In
formation which via lrotmlit to the
Aincricnrl side nf the Itlo (tr.iiule m
day. ,-
iJutilig the day it became known at
the tnllltnry headquarters at Camp
Cotton, on the river hank, and at Kort
tills that the Krnmhlliiv of tho Car
i.iti.o caiTlscu of Juarez over the
promised coming of tho "gringos" bus
iippioachlnur open mutiny.
t'airutiza ottlcerc who made attempt.
to tdlenco nntl-Ainrrican outbreaks
heard themselves caKiil trulton by
their own men. The events of the
lust few dny and the retnrts nf the
extensive prepanitloiw for an effective
Invasion have been enough to fan the
"strlngo (into" to flame of open oppo
sition. With this condition exltlng 1'nltt!
Ktntes army olllicis consider It most
probable that the im ureimi of a
colutuii from th! port through .Itiiuez
will result In an open buttle. Car
ranz.i olll.'i.iis ore do'eig nil in their
power to prevent the' spread of the ,
report that ii I itintrol nf their forces
will be gone once the American step j
act oss the line. '
Villi, n "Hero" unln.
Villu s .lUdacily In making Mich a i
bold attack on American soli nnd 111
escape from the small mounted force
that pin -tied him flom ColumhU has
...,ne much tow-ut.l niacin, bin, back
on hi iiedest.il ii the pupal ir Idol
of the peops and Ignorant class.
rite American Invnslo'i has Kivcn
hltu the nrgiiment that C.irtartza Is in
league with tin- "giincos" and the
ileclarailmi thai plans nro on foot to
place the States of Chihuahua and
Si norn under American rule, nfter the
example of Tevn nml Cillfornl.i
In all public statements since the
CnHinilnts massacre ('.nranza has
cnii'fully avoided reference to the
American Invasion, nf which he has
received both personal nml oltloial In
formation. Mere ,n I CI Paso it i
Pken for granted that the "grln-o
bale" o carefully cultivated III .Mexico
for the lat sixty yejus I now so
strong that Cnrninzi would lose all
prestige If he lecognlzcd an Inva
sion by the despised men nf tli
north, whether thai Itivnsnn wa
under the name of n "punitive expe-.
il.tioti" or any other lnnoient appear
In? phrase
l-'lve hundred Ciri.uua tio.. the ad
vance Kiinrd of a much lat.ir force, ar
rived to-d.iv In Juarez tiom the south.
Tlte Mexicans -My the troops will be
sent (o Cas-us Clrandes to protect the
Mormon, but the movement Is looked
upon wltli suspicion by American army
officers ind others here.
It 1 the belief that the men will not
leave Juarez and that the r loinlng
he rv Is part nf a general men einent of
Carrnii7,i troop north to the border.
Oen. H.iv Ira's statement that the force
will go to C.is.is Hralldes I scouted, as
the railroad Is In such shape that it
would be Impossible to send a mllltar)
train over It.
deport reached here to-nlcbt ' that
1,lftn Cnrranza troops from l.rmno,
capital of the Stile of Sonora, were
rushed to-day to A sua Prleta, opposite
Douglas, and to N ic, opposite Naco,
ArU.
The leasiin for thrlr movement could
mean hut on., thing, Auierlian army
officers iirgucil. and lb it wns opposl.
Hon to any American force that might
be sent into Mexico at those points,
since Villa Is not lu that section, and
the uoithern bonier of Sonora I quiet
and theie i xists no military neiesslt)
for a sudden shifting of forces from the
inlerlor to the Inlrrnntloniil line
llffoits of Aincrli' ins were bent to. day
toward leassiirlug the Mixlcaus that In
the event of an Ameilcan exp. .1 itlon into
Mexico II will liv only for the ptilposi.
of making a prisoner of Villa and then
withdrawing, nnd not fm- the put pose of
armed Intervention lu Mexico's Internal
affairs
1(1. ok tor Opposition,
Military and civilian official alike
made efforts to present the case lo the
Mexican officials In the best possible
light, bill even III tin' face of fhl there
was little warrant to-nlglit fur the belief
that I'nlted Slates foices .nuld entir
thiinigli .1 inner, without opposition from
the Mfxhans,
At present the .dialer, gat risen con
slsts of bill about ."obi men There ire
supposed to Is. nine Scluieldet-.Canet
cannon lu the place. Mine arms were in
evidence to American visitors lo-day
tli.in for mi) tune In months.
Six Aiiieilcans who m rived in III Paso
tn-da) from Chihuahua city said the
repott hud been received there of the
Ameilcan Invasion of Mexico at Coliini.
bus, N, M,, following Villa's raid on Co.
Iambus, unit that tho no-.-s had caused!
much excitement. Thcae Americana said '
CARRANZA SENDS
DEMANDS TO THE U. S.
XfKXICO CITV, Mnrch 12.
Ocn. Carrnimi issued n
tnunifesto to the nation to-ninht ,
(leclarintr that under no circum
sUmees would the Mexicun f!ov
ernment (frntit the riht to thu
United States to violate Mexican
territory hy sondinir Hit armed
force fn pursuit of Villa without
consent and the reciprocal privi
lege lieitiK first obtained and ad
mitted. Word was sent to the coniilen
tittl BKent of the Mexican Gov
I'liimcnt in W'ashlnifton to make
immediate representations to this
effect.
In his manifesto (Jen. Carranssn
says :
"I am sure that I interpret in
this matter the national senti
ment, and that the Mexican peo
ple will comply in a dignified
manner with their duty, he the
saerilices what they may, to sus
tain their rijrhta nnd sovereignty
if unfortunately this iIiiiks us into
a war n war which the United
States can never justify. We will
not lie responsible for the disas
trous consequences. Upon the
heads of the traitorous Mexicans
who within nnd without this
country have luhnred to produce
this result will fall the inexorable
utstice of the people."
(ien. Carranr.ii arrived at Que
retaro last nij-ht, havinp hurried
with his Cabinet from Guadala
jara. The First Chief will remain
in the provisional capital until the
crisis is past.
minor Carranza officers had threatened
them with death, but they came through
on a train under military escort and
were not molested. The Americans weie
Harry Weln, Adelbert T.i)!nr. Il.ivld
Hiirwltz, C. Joseph. W. Churchill and
Charles Hulley.
Tli.it ii censorship of a rig-Id nature
Is lu effect In Mexb o was demonstrated
to-nlBht when H. C Myles, Ilrltish Con
sul at 111 Paso, ottered a code message to
Vice-Consul Scobel In Clilhu ihu i city
and hud It refused Mr Myl-s liiiprered
on tlirt .lll.ilf.7 tulnvr-inh Hl.ru l...
.he message was of u dlnlnimnle "n.iiii
and was entitled to go In code, but still
It was refused
""ii Villa left the Corralltns lunch;
to-day for S'iii lliiena Ventura, south
of C.is.is Hralldes. aciordlng to tnfonna-,
tlnn obta.ued III Ju.itez to-night This, '
It wa said, hud been wired from Car-j
raiua scouts In the vicinity of Can '
Oraudc. It was feared that Villa would
'"''7'' 1!hr, ,fr'v American In 'that
ZiTX
(ininde..
Nowhere on the '.order to-dn w,n
there a move to . loss in. m. xhiih b.ird. i
o) .vmer'.'ai, Loop" .Mlilleiy eugu,. ,..
and more sKI,al mips men win be here
to-morrow mnnuiig from Hun Antonio, It
wa I. (iin. d.
Telephone hUMSagc fi.no Columbus, 1
N. M stated that the bittahoii of the
twentieth infantry, wlilch reached there
eaily yesienl.i). had taken the place of
uie i unit.. tun cav.ili-v in guarding the
town, so that "the Thli tecntli can h
leased for active border patrol dutv "
One battery of the l-Yiuith l-'leld Aitll
'eiy left to-night for Columbus, n. m.
elieerhig and singing ptirlotlc songs.
The battalion will lie attached to the
column which it Is uiiib i stood will enter
.Mexico .it Columbus
That the c.mipilgii to catch Villa may
be long drawn out I the conviction of
army men here. a they hear that Villa
has scntteied his 'orce and has s.-it
them as small bands Into the roughest
nnc lot i n- In northern Mexico, to lejoin
llllll wli a lie c.iils fo them
In 111 P.iso, all the rillro.nls w-ete
busy spotting" cars for Hie t'nitrd
State troop Practically all whole,
".lie grocery houses were kept till")' tods)-
supplying provisions to the quaiter-,
masters of th Hovernment 1
PersliliiK fict -cool..
Hen Pershing spent this afternoon in
conference with a number of tow boys
who have worked on various ranches 'in
northern Mexico. These m.n will go
along- with the nrmy as tcout
lllshop Hurt, representing the Mor
mon colonists in northrrn Mi xico. also
declared this afKrnoon that lie was
gathering u number of young Mormons
familiar with northern Mexico for the
same service
This and Hie pinking up of tile Sixth
and Sixteenth Infuntry tcglments In
Camp Cotton, in the southern pan of
ill Piiso, weir Hie only Indications to
day of preparation for n it enttj Into
Mexico. was ascertained that the
two Infantry regiment might leave late
to-night or early to-morrow morning.
Their destination Is kept a secret, but
It was said on good authority that their
tlrst movement at least is not to enter
Mexico hut to take a position on the
'nirder at some point west of here. At
III" lu-adiiiaiters of Hen. Pershing It
was explained that their mov. inent
for Hie pin pose of sliengtli.-iiliig the
border patiol "
Al l-'oil lilies Hie Klghth Civali) ami
the mountain batleile of Hie I'mitlli
l-'leld Aitlllery weie making ai.angi
unsitK to niovt , but had no onh-iH ns
lo their distillation The Seventh In
fantry slll'leuilnieil all its wagon equip,
inent to the Highlit O.tv.iltv to-day. milk
ing it ccitHln Hi, it tin iiglnieni not
lo leave hire, 1,,'itir It was oiilercd lo
move in fiom I'm t llhss lo.uinnou
morning and take the camp to be v.i-
aled b) the Sixth and Sixteenth regi
ments, to guard the louei section of
l.'l Pno
Until the di pot qliarti liliastei down
town mid the post rpi.trtcrtiiastci at
Port Itllss w i, busy bii.vliig .ui.l Issuing
supplies In the soldi, i-s, There wa ,i ,
gt'iieial sHilililng of tiooi giiiiiloig -;
Paso, llv-er.v company of the Sixth nnd
Slxteinlh Infantry rcglnients on patrol
duty was called Into camp and the men
put to packing their belonging. All j
spare baggage and Impedimenta were
sent lo the quartet master's storehouse.
t'oiitlitueit oa Second rage.
Carrana Cnalde to Pre
vent Threatened I prisiu,
Washington Fours.
limnilS OF PLOTS
SENT TO LAXSJXtt
Expedition lo rapture Villa
Will Lead lo Interven
tion. Is liclicf.
.MOKE TKOOPS TO AID
L'O.imo AT ItOKOKK,
L':l I ii I'sint r. Kiislied to
Protect El hi mi Kni
liaro'o on Anns.
WanIiimito.v. March 12. -The con
vlctlon t growing In official circles
help thai the Ameilcan expedition
tt'to Mexico to cuituio Villa mean
Ine licKlnninK of Intervention.
Iteports of a decidedly disturbing
rltiitacter conrernint; the attitude of
the Carnuiza tlovcrnmcnt ate belli
received. Throughout these reports
the threat appears thai wllhi.i
twenty-four hours after the expedi
tion has slot well under way all Mex
ico will be In arms against, the United
Slates,
What attitude C.irr:tn7.i personally
assume appears from these reports
to l negligible. With his (Invent
ment already tottering It Is declared
that any promises of non-Interference
or cooperation which he may rank"
ate unlikely to bind hi followers.
Humors of pints among these fol
lowers to overthrow hint have been
retching the State Department In in
creasing number.
iiilc!iiii of Ohrcuon.
Thne through wiio-e hands the-
repoit have passed privately express
the view thai one of two things i
going lo happen ICilher Carinnxo.
will llml lilmidf forced by popular
opinion to resi-t the Invasion or his
followers will Ignore him and lead the
resistance There i growing suspi
cion of Hen. Alvaro Ohicirou, who i
said to have alven ear to tho stigpes
tion that he himself should be in
Cnrr.ihza's p.iice.
ITIvntc i.di Ice from the bolder r
ce.vnl here to-day ilcscrlls' American
relugee nrr.iing at I'.i Pasn from
to city nf Chihuahua .is declaring
that tin- Cair.-inza garr.s-ui theie h.i
t ken up the irv ..f "Death In the
(.'.ringi.s' " Cm lanz i .illlcinl nte ,
ciared to have openly stated tluit
Atiietuaii troop will not permit
ted to pas thnii:-'h tile town
The lmpl esslon tli.it the mov tlilctif
to go' Villa means Intel vention hn
pri'iid to Washington. At the Capitol
tlic ili'teriiiliiatlon exists to stand by
tri President wliatever cuiies. itv
rti.iny of tne Senutni-. nnd llepres-.'ii-titlves
tile feeling ha I. dig existnl
thai -lltei'V entioii lu Mexico is Inevi
t.lbV To. mot tow ni'itni.m t'li.-iiniiaii Stone
of the S.-naii' I'litelcu lb '.itlons Coin-t'.i.ite.-
and .-'ennt,'i- SatiNuury of
I'ciaw.ifc ..re In cit'.l on tile liesl.
dent Th lg.ig. ni.-ni was m id-.
ultoi t!ie While Units." hail fieen
ir vvire!"-s cninmiiiucatloii wit!- the
Mcyltiiwer. vvhi. It wiM bring the ITesl
ib nt and Mr WiNon l ack to Wnsli-lli'-'ton
eary in the luornlnu .-ecfe.
t. ry l.itising also has an .'iigagcniciit
to see the ITc-iil.Mit
.no)' V,.,' le,1 eeret.
In the mi aiiiiiuc th Win I '! u tnient
rotitliiu.s to kiep .li.wn tin v.il of sr.
eiee) over 1'unston .s nioveim nts S' i
retaty Maker declared to-liiglit that h
would niako public tie news of the
crossing Into Mexico its soon as he ie
ceives It. He at (list itfut'Pd to .,y
whether an) orders hid gone to runston
to isistpone the starting or the eidi
yinn, but later aM tliat hi stit. ueiit ot
ytst. rday that l'unstoii was flee to mov
whenever he saw- lit still stand
One significant Item ol infit in.itlon
was given out The Seoiet n am nunc. rl
tint the i'wenty-th'.t'l Inf-it.try hoi b.'i'i
illrecti-l to go it o ii-i from litlicton
where it Is now inc.iniH'il to PI p.iso
This ilium. It wa.s st it'-d, rcsulie'l fiom
"appniu nsiotls" repotted to the Wai
Di pai tmeiit fiom s. vcral pin. e- along
the bonier on the put of i.-sulents of
unprotected places that Villa n ;ihi ti
pcat his foraj Int. i Amen, an . rr.toiy
Th.i icglilidll Is expecled (. ,n'vo ,it
11 Paso some line to-iu urow ,md w II
be ii eii to cover mi adc.i',. e of Mevi-
. ills t 111 Dtlgtl Ju.it i 7.
Ileporl llllllll-t llvee 1,1 lie,
li.'llii'i' or not ,n i ictlvi .i,i i nn nt
ll.i. been stalled In l-'lili.ton .iciiks ll.e
line it I plaii.lv ev nl. i I Hut tin ! -paitnn-nt
I nuking it .'.spo.liiui of
1 1 oops wit. I blggei po'slliil.tles In vl.
than i meie biuli Hi V .ll.C bauillt
Ali.'jil) tin oiileis -.'lit out iii.'liiiie Hie
i. ..nil i topes of iioni 1'i.ni". to 2:1. inn'
I'lirth. i- mov etn. lit - t-i Ibe boidet- an
looked f".
."i,ui. is o Villa w.i - m Co. rallies lo
di). on hi wav lo C is. is Hi, miles, to
.iil'iluu to .nlvl'cs finiii HI P.iso
Coil illw.s is Just tiveiiiy iiul.-M train
1'ts.is i li ajiilcs. ind ' aboiu i niily iiillm
soil .1 of C.llllilt.lls I'lOltl CllllielSiill's
K.iin li. N M , from vvh-h tiolui Hie
Scveiitli I' S Cav, ill-) is alt., id) re
poite.l lo ave slaiti.l in loss tin. line
hoivcve , t'oi-i-.illtos is less Ihali lift)
milts in a tii'iilgiit line
If the Seventh Cavalry has crossed the
bonier, as hinted, It is posslblo that
cont. ut with tho Vllllslus has already
occuricd.
While no requsats have been lent a-i
it I
IP
or
