-V ' - I
, 1- 1
She IteJtfnaf m fete
fcf
WEATHER' FORECAST:
Partly Cloudy Tonight.
(Full Report on Pago Two.)
NUMBBB 8838.
U. S. PREPARES TO FIGHT ALL MEXICO
CARRANZA FORCES MASS ON BORDER
FIFTY-MILE BATTLE HAVRE DISPATCHES.WORKS DECLARES
FRONT NEAR VERDUNrDIFFER AS TO HOITOti HOSPITAL
QUAKES UNDER RRE SILIUS WAS SUNK FACILITIES UNFIT
Jerlflo Bombardment From
Kaiser's Artillery Answered
By French Guns.
GERMANS LOSE TRENCHES
Aviators in Battle During Attack
on Supply Trains on Both
Sides.
LONDON, March 13. TJio whole reg
ion northeast, east and southeast of Ver
dun fortress Is shaking under tcrlflc ar
tillery fire.
Thi struggle Is extending alone a
curving flfty-mllo front southeast of tha
citadel, nccordlng to official statements
from the 'Gorman and French war of
flrer. this afternoon.
It It. considered almost certain that
this entire 'front is about to break out
In heavy Infantry actions.
Paris Is awaiting tho nmv thrust with
confidence. An official statement from
the French war offlco estimates German
lctsrs In tho Verdun offenslvo thus far
nt 100,000.
Take German Trenches.
A sharp strugglo In Lo Pictre woods.
Xortr-flvo miles southeast of Verdun, Is
reported In both official statements this
afternoon. Paris announced the capture
of more than 200 yards of German
trenches In the Carnes wood. ThvJer
man war office, however, claimed the
rcpi.lFC of the French attaclc
Aviators on both sides were busy
throughout tho nlBht.
A French squadron raided tho depot
at Conflans through which tho crov.r.
prince obtains supplies from Motx. Tho
German war offlco reported air attacks
cr. tho Clcrmont-Vcrdun railway depots
nnd tho destruction of four French aero1
planes. ...
Tho Germans searched out the
French front all yesterday with n ter
rific hall of steel projectiles. The
French accept the cannonading- as the
forerunner of renewed attempts
against Fort Vaux and the positions
northwest of Verdun, and mado ready
to meet tho assaults.
German losses In the first three
weeks of tho Verdun offensive are
estimated at 200.000 In an official
statement Issued by the French war
office.
Driven From Vaux.
Dispatches from Berlin contain the
first admission from Gorman sources
that the Germans no longer hold Vaux
fort. An official statement two days
nRo admitted that tho French by
(Continued on Fourth Page.)
Italians Active
In Goritz Region
Heavy Fighting on the Carsoo
Plateau Several Trenches
Are Captured.
HOME. March 13. After a lull of gov.
cml months, tho Italians have sudden
ly becomo Intensely active nlong the.
wholo front. Formidable artillery ac
tions aio now occurring 5n the f'arso
platcaii nnd tho rencwul of the Italian
onslaught on Goritz Is bcllovcd Im
minent. Advices from the front today report
dnlly lufnntry actions around the Goritz
brldgohcnd.
Heavy lighting has occurred In the
past right days. Tho Italians urc mak
InB dally Infantry nttacks against tho
entrenched camp of I'odporn, before
Oorlt.
Thov have captured several trenches
find mo tightening the ring about tho
1 rwlRoheiut position.
Tho Austtiauu aro hurrying up re
enfoi cements.
Russians in Persia
Moving on Bagdad
Occupy Knrind and Soon Will
Flank the Turkish Army Op
posing the British.
PtiTUOUIlAU, March U-Tho Hus
slnn army opemtlng In Persia has ad
vanced sovouly-llvo miles west of Ker
munshah to Karlnd, on tho way to
Ungdad.
Tho occupation of tho town Is an
nounced officially tonight by the war
office
Karlnd. llko Kermuushah, is situated
on tho HWur DlJnla, a tributary of .the
Titris Ki'iim Karlnd the river runs
nerlhwestrrh for fifty miles, then dips
sniitowoMril) thirty miles to tho fron
tlet ill' n for about seven miles, bioad
cnliic no It Koi-s. It flows through .Moso.
..i a nun in join the Tigris fifteen miles
lll'low HllKll I'l. "
ll w II thin Ip Hoen that this advance
wll veiy M1..HI Hunk the Turkish iirinj
r.i.fx-n nj. the ntlrli fntccs mi the TIB,
unieaa in tho nieimtluio the Turks
ileal Jim occupation of Uagdaif fy
uie roniuineii Aiiglo-ltusslan ari
mtreiore, appears to be imminent.
No Submarine Sighted and Crew
Divided as to Mine or
Torpedo.
REGARDED AS SERIOUS HERE
More Far-reaching Than Mexi
co Crisis, Officials Privately
Say.
PARIS, March 13. Press dispatches
from Havre today cast some doubt on
tha first reports that the Norwegian
bark BIHus, aboard which wcro soveu
Americans, was torpedoed without
warning.
No submarine was sighted, the dis
patches said, though tho majority of
the crew believed a submersible at
tacked (ho Stilus.
Others expressed tho opinion that
the Stilus struck one of tho mines tho
Germans nre known to have been sow
ing off the French coast.
While tho Mexican developments
claimed the nation's attention today,
grave consldcratlon.was given here to
the unwarned torrcdoelng of tho
American bark Stilus, with Americans
aboard.
State Department officials admittedly
regarded the caso as fraught with .pos
sible consequences more serious and
far-reaching than the .impending Mexi
can Crisis.
Tho department has requested the
.Havre consul to furnish added facts.
It desires to establish certainty that tho
vessel was a submarine victim, as re
ported, and was not sunk by u ih.,k
Authorities regard the caso on its
face as one of tho most flagrant In
ternational law violations thus far re
ported. They say It Involves Innocont
Americans, forced by their occupations
to travel tho f-is, nnd Immune under
all law from an unwarned attack.
Secretary Lansing declared ho had no
other word from tho Havre consul nsldo
from the original report saying the Tea
sel had been torpedoed. '
Thirteenth Cavalry
To Lead Villa Hunt
Troops Arriving Hourly at Colum
bus Strengthens Belief in
Start There.
COLUMBUS. N. M March 13. Troops
arriving hourly today from El Paso
strengthened tho belief tfwt onu tf tho
pilnclpal columns cflcr Villa will start
from here.
The Thirteenth cavalry, which brave
ly drovo off Villa's superior numborn In
Thursday's raid, was being outfitted,
apparently to lead the pursuit.
Officers were under strict urdiir.i not
to make any statement regarding con
templated 'invcmonts.
Senate to Take Up
Army Bill Soon
Chamberlain Hopes to Get Meas
ure Up for Consideration
This Week.
The Senate will soon take up the now
army bill and efforts will be mado to
press it for passage without needless
delay.
This was stated in Honntn Miiun.
Commltteo circles this afternoon. Sen
ator Uliamborlaln hopes to get thd bill
up for consideration some time this
week.
. W.t,,0lt rannot,u aid this Is duo
to tho Mexican situation, there is no
doubt a feeling in Administration cir
cles as well as In Congress, omontf
thogn whn nr fnr. r,rnor7i ...' iV". .1
would bo tho purt of wisdom to hasten
... ia(ui piuimroancss legislation.
Hetmtnr fhnTnh.rl(i1n . u... -
tho M II rv f M l,Vi' "T,,a",'"a" r
certain reports from th'o War Depart-
........ , ,, Dwmio oiii. as soon
as they arrive, he wantB to push It.
Owen Fails to Call
Up Oil-Lease Bill
Senator Owen failed today to bring his
O.ssgn nil-land leasing resolutions before
tho Somite. Senator Goro announced
he would rofiiHO his consent, necessary
under tho rules, before March 21,
French War Minister
Gallieni Seriously 111
PARIS, March 13. General Galllei.l,
French minister of war, Is III, nnd hus
hern nimble to attend to matters nt his
offlco for several days.
UN physicians have demanded that he
i enialn perfectly quiet uulll his health Is
restored.
WASHINGTON,
Senator Calls Conditions at
Washington Institution "a
Disgrace to City.
GLAD MATTER TAKEN UP
Time Congress Gave Proper
Attention to Care of Needy
Sick, He Says.
Senator Works of California, a lead
ing member of tho Senate District Com
mittee, strongly commends tho exposure
of condition at tho Washington Asylum
Hospital In The Sunday Times yester
day. "Conditions nt the Institution arc n
rflHgrace to the city," declared Senator
Works.
"The Times will do n great public ser
vtco In arousing public sentiment and
Congress to the situation. I am glad
to see the m.itler taken up.
"I thjnk the buildings, tho surround
ings, und tho facilities absolutely Iliad
cntmto und unfit. I havn not iwrsonally
examined Into the treatment of patients.
"Congress is spending much money
for monuments and memorials to tho
dead In Washington. It Is about tlmo
that proper attention was paid to tliu
care of the living.,
"My own views on this subject are
well known. I expressed them at th"
tlm tha renort was mado on tha fiscal
relation between the t.'nlted States HfjT"
the District of Columbia.
"In tho additional Views which I np
ponded to tho report of the Joint select
i committee, I dwelt among other things
on the con;' i!on of this Institution and
oi tho hospitals In general. I adhen
to tho position 1 took In that report.
. "My statement then was that th"
I District of Columbia has a comtlncU
I Jail, insane hospital, and asylum hos
pital lor tne acponucni peopio wno an
unablo to pay for treatment at tlv
pnvato hospitals. These throe are u
the same, piece of ground.
Disgrace to City ,and Nation.
mere usou to be a uorkhouio and;
poorhouso connected with thorn,
Through tha most strenuous efforts of
tho Commissioners, the Board of Chari
ties, nnd ether charitable organizations
and private citizens, other provisions
have been made for a workhouse and
An asylum for tho aged and Infirm,
commonly called a poor farm, but the
old hospital remains to disgrace the
city nnd tho nation.
"It Is composed of a number of cot
tages, worn with age, poorly equipped
and unfit for uso from age and decay. '
Senator Works declared the Washington
Asylum Hospital was Juat about such a
pretense of a hospital as one would ex
pect to find In a. city that permitted the
slum conditions to exist which he de
scribed in his report. Ho added:
"For fifteen years, the Government
lias owned a suitablo trait of land upon
which to erect a modern hospital such
as a city of this size should have.
"Ever slnco Congress has been up
pealed to for an appropriation sufficient
to erect such a building but tho land
remains vacant. It was a fine real
estate investment The property has n.
speculative valuo of five times as much
as It cost, but that does not care for
the needy, sick and afflicted.
Help for Private Hospitals.
"While this imperative duty has been
neglected by Congress from year to
year It has been making appropriations
of hundreds of thousands of dollars to
privately owned hospitals, some of
which needed no help, but wcro growing
rich from their business.
"For this, neither tho Government nor
the class of people that It should serve
have received any benefit whatever.
Most of the Indigent patients they re
fuse to receive at all, and if they do
accept any tho Government, notwith
standing Its contrlbtulon, must pay for
them."
Senator Works pointed out that while
the people of the District have been suf
fering for years for lack of a decent
municipal hospital, tho Government has
donated to private hospitals nearly
2,000,000.
Senator Works holds that the Govern
ment should have In the city of Wash
ington a first class, modern hosDltal to
I care for the unfortunates for which It
now cares so inaiiierenuy ana inade
quately, and for others needing Its
neip.
He would have aB a part of this, a re
ceiving and emergency hospital with all
modern Improvements and adequately
equipped. Ho would cut off appropria
tions to prlvato hospitals, At the same
time, ho would make the Government
hospitals free to all kinds of practition
ers of all schools f medicine.
Daniels Not Informed of
New Code Book Theft
Hrerctay of the Navy Daniels claimed
today to have no confirmation of n San
Francisco report that a recond navy
code hook had been stolen on the Pn
c'ltlc coast.
Armed Ship to Sail.
The Treasury Department today or-
ili'cd oustonir officials of New York t.o
nuow ine naiinn uner America to
clear on tne repiesentation of the Hal
Ian ambassador that the liner was
armed "for dtXt&Uva purpose only."
MONDAY EVENING,
MEXICAN FIRST CHIEF AND
ARMY HEAD
-MmttlEmi i 111
J4-mj rial 1
. ''TjjL ijr-'mXYf ''MiHi'H
It -; . &t I. ? Jm
'm sVk -TNHNPmmmUv ur y- Jfw --isisisBsLmiisisV
BPPWMBJ2 MvIkBV'jJf LjsMspJWir jBJJMiMM
s jppppppapppBtjpppppBpjjsv msF
J i'" --' '.""'" "7'" ;'" i i , ....... J
Gen. VENUSTIANA CARRANZA
All Mexico Threatens
To Rise Against U. S.
Because of "Invasion"
EL PASO, Tex., March 18. Threaten
ed with resistance by an aroused Mex
ico, Uncle Barn's expedition to run down
Villa, and avenge the Columbus raid is
halted temporarily.
Coming on special trains toward the
"war front" are regiments of Infantry,
artillery, cavalry, engineers and forces
of all branches of 'tho army, cither to
take an active part In the Invasion or to
replace the border troops -sent to wipe
out banditry,
The hour for the real advance Is now
fmfptixl to arrive some time today, al
though Major General Funston's policy
of thorough preparedness and diplomat-
ic negotiation, wunw.0 '-;' --
zistas may further delay the expedition.
it a ul it.. j.kh pMn.
Carranza'a threatened armed opposi
tion to the entry of the Amerlcln troops,
as reported to agents here and Villa's
night toward the defenseless American
Mormon colonists In Chihuahua has torn
the border country between feelings of
anger and fear. im ..
Tho nrnhlflm nt aelxlns: all the north-
trn Mexican railways and preparing to
tight both carranzistas ana vinistaa u
necessary Is now before the army heads.
Carranzlsta officers are reported hav
ing trouble suppressing a mutinous
oplrtt among tholr soldiers. Antl-Amerl-can
demonstrations are reported from
several Mexican points.
United States Consul Marlon Itcher.
at Chihuahua City, Is arranging for
the speedy transportation of the titty
American families there to the border.
Hl American residents at Kl Paso,
arriving from Chihuahua City, statert
their lives were threatened by two Car
ranzlsta officers.
"We're going to take all you grlngoea
out and hang you," ono Carranzlsta
said.
Villa was last reported marching
southward from Corralttos toward Han
lli.enn Ventures, near tho .Mormon
colonies. Hn was either determined to
carrv out his threat to annihilate all tho
W American men, women, and children
or ho was fleeing to the mountainous
Guerrero district to hldo from the Amer
ican pursuit.
Vllln is believed to havn divided his
followers Into small guerrilla bands,
Vllhstas even nre Teported In the north
ern part of Durangn stato, where a
band under "Genernl" Urhalejo mnilo
an unsuccessful attack on a passenger
train on the National Lines of Mexico,
killing a number of the rrew.
An armed Carranzlsta guard drove oft
tho bandits after they had dynamited
the station at Conejos,
El Fuo had 1U first opportunity to
MARCH 13, 1910.
(sitting) and General OBREGON.
display Its war spirit last night. Tho
remainder of tho Twentieth UnltaJ
States Infantry, about 700 men, passed
through tho city, bound for "some
where on the border." The first lnt'
matlon the citizens had of their de
parture were the soldiers' wild choer
from tho train. They wcro happy over
the prosect of some action.
Thousands of men, women, and chil
dren rushed toward tho long train, an
swering cheer for cheer.
Carried aray by tho martial spirit,
scores of excited civilians shrieked to
tho soldiers: "Olvo the greasers hell!"
Apprehension that tho depletion of
tne J'ort miss garrison may encourjuo
; tho 10,000 Mexicans In the city to attuck
j Jl Pa so, hundreds of American rest-
r " io hwiuH tiiititju. unif. wen. u.
I J. Pershing, in command of Fort Ililss.
, lia, gVen the nutnorlte8 assurances
mat tne city win be protected. Deputy
sheriffs with automatic rifles have been
sworn in.
Tho reported mutinous spirit of tho
Carranza garrlfon nt Juarez also
aroused app-henslon.
Dry Bill Blocked
For This Session
Opponents of Sheppard Measure
Appear to Have Impreg
nable Lines.
Tho Sheppard national prohibition
amendment has probably been blocked
for this session of Conrresi.
This was tho Information disclosed to
diiy, following .1 meeting of the Senate
Judiciary Committee. The commltteo
rilmissed tho proposed amendment lit
length, but cot inwiii re,
Tho committee has hud the .matter up
If previous mooting with llko result.
It has becomo apparent that the op.
ponriitu of tho amendment are trying
to hold It In committee or to prevent It
from golfing to a voir, in tho Sonato
tliU session, Tho chances of succeH.i
uro growing,
Seymour Eaton Dead.
PHILADKM'HIA. March 13.-ey.
inntir Kaion, author anil Journalist,
whn made millions of people laugh
whi-n he ('rented the Toddy Hear toy,
tiled shnrtly before noon of apoplexy
at his home in linsdowno, near here.
lie was nfty.ssyen ysars of act.
FIRST CHIEF HELD
RESPONSIBLE BY U. S.
FOR 500 MORMONS
Commander of Juarez Garrison Informed
That Constitutionalists Will Be Forced
To Protect Americans Villa Pursuit
Held Up.
Practical conviction on the part of army officiate-tkrt
the United States will be forced to fight the whole of
Mexico, has checked the advance of Funston's forces in
pursuit of Villa.
In an effort to avoid opposition from the Carranza
government, President Wilson and Secretary Lansing are
now in conference.
They have before them the proposals of Carranza for
a reciprocal arrangement permitting Carranza's troops to
invade the United States when pursuing Villa.
To enable Carranza to save his face the disposition of
me Administration is to grant the request.
But care will be taken to prevent the consent of this
Government from being availed of.
In the meantime strenuous preparations are being
made with the view that, regardless of the personal atti
tude of Carranza, his followers will flock to the banner of
Villa to repel the American forces.
General Gavira, Carranza commandan in Juarez, has
been informed through State Department agents that the
de facto government will be held responsible for the safety
of the 500 American Mormon colonists in the Casas
Grandes and Galena districts, according to press dispatches
from El Paso.
WILSON ASKS PROMPT ACTION.
President Wilson sent to Congress today an urgent
appeal for immediate action on the preparedness legisla
tion. The message was conveyed by him orally to Speaker
Clark and Majority Leader Kitchin of the House. He
urged that no time be lost by the legislative branch of the
Government in enabling the Government to prepare for
any emergency.
Although the War Department is maintaining a cen
sorship on official dispatches that defies all efforts to learn
what troop movements have been made by Funston, pri
vate advices pouring into Washington in ever increasing
number from the border have served to fan tension to a
white heat.
From San Antonio comes the report that the Carranza
government, while appearing to negotiate with the United
States on a basis of co-operation, is rushing 25,000 troops
to border points, on the theory that they will be used
against the United States.
Officials at the War Department have no disposition
to discount these reports. On the contrary the belief is
firmly fixed in the minds of the general staff that war with
Mexico is the inevitable consequence of Villa's daring raid.
The army is waiting impatiently for the outcome of
the negotiations with Carranza. It wants to know whether
the Administration is going to permit it to use a large
enough force to meet the probable treachery of Carranza's
followers, or whether the United States is going to accept
the promises of Carranza at their face value.
Even if the expedition is to be limited to the pursuit
and capture of Villa, officials at the War Department are
prepared to believe that the chase will last years instead of
months. Geronimo laughed for four years at the efforts
of 5,ooo American troops to capture him, and only gave
up when he could name his own terms. Aguinaldo taxed
the Philippine troops on a tedious pursuit, and was onlv
caught by a strategem. Besides these two Villa is regarde'd
by army officers as a genius.
They do not believe that Villa's raid on Columbus
HOME
EDITION
PBICE ONE CENT.
