THE .ARIZONA
AN INDEPENDENT PR
ICAN
Th Arliona
Republican,
Full
Leased Wirt
A. P. Report
The Sun
Alwaye 8hiitM
Fine
Winter Climate'
In the WarM
AN INDEPENDENT PROGRESSIVE JOURNAL.
Mo,
TWENTY-SIXTH YEAR
10 PAGES
PHOENIX, ARIZONA, MONDAY MORNING, MARCH 13, 1916
10 PAGES
VOL. XL VI. NO. 299.
BIG GUNS KEEP
UP FIGHTING IN
VERDUN REGION
Infantry Attacks ('case
While Artillerv Continues
to Throw Tons of Metal at
Opposing Lines ; Germans
Claim (Jains.
RUSSIANS CAPTURE
DNIESTER TRENCHES
Berlin Says French Assaults
in Massed Formation
Against the Newly "Won
Trenches Have Complete
ly Failed; Loss Terrific
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
Except for artillery action, the
fighting in the Verdun region virtu
ally has ceased for the moment.
To the north and east of the fortress
there has heen no infantry engage
ment since Saturday afternoon, when
the Germans succeeded in reaching a
small French trench to the north of
Aix.
On both sides of the Mense from
the northwest of Verdun alcng the
entire front around to the southeast
of the fortress, the artillery on both
sides has continued the tremendous
shelling that has been in progress for
days.
The Germans claim to have cap
tured in the fighting around Verdun
thus far 26.472 unwounded French of
ficers and men and 189 guns and 232
machine guns.
To the south of the Somme river in
the Argonne forest and in the Bun-De-Sapt
sector of the Vosges the
French guns have easily bombarded
German entrenchments.
The Russians have captured trench
es from the Germans in the Dniester
region of Kast Galicia and have made
further progress against the Turks
in Tersia by taking the town of Ki
rir.d. The Russians admit the sinking
of n Russian torpedo boat destroyer
by a submarine of the central powers
in the Black sea, off the Bulgarian
port of Varna. Part of the crew of
the destroyer wre iCBtued.
Despite the unfavorable weather
conditions in the mountains, the Ital
ians are Continuing their operations
ag nnst the Austro-Hungarians They
also are intensely bombarding the
Tb'inzo front. The town of Gorizia
has had to sustain another hail of
Italian shells.
The Dritish fleet auxiliary Fau
vette, a vessel of 2,644 tons, h.t.s
heen lost, together with fourteen -
nf their crew, by striking a mine off
(Continued on Page Three)
5
tRepublican A. P. Leased Wire
NOGALES, Ariz. March 12. Seven
Mexicans, suspected of being Villa ad
herents were taken into custody and
questioned here today by United States
military authorities acting upon infor
mation supplied by deputy sheriffs. Con
tiiderable aims and amunition in their
possession was confiscated. Among
these apprehended was General Cam
beris, a former Villa general. A con
dition of subdued excitement prevailed
here today, marked by activity on the
part of American troops.
A heavy guard patrolled the border
while patrols kept constant vigil
throughout the streets of the town.
Late last night the sound of American
cavalry patrols moving about followed
shortly afterward by bugle calls on the
Mexican side of Xogales, increased the
excitement until it was learned that
the bugle was calling for the asembling
of a company of Mexican artillery pre
paratory for its departure for Naco.
DOUGLAS, Ariz. March 12. General
Cales, the Carranza commander at No
gales, said that his movements would
be guided entirely by instructions from
General Caranza. He said he received
no communication from Caranza today.
Carranza authorities have asked per
mission to pass 700,000 rounds of am
munition into Agua Prieta, Mexico, but
the shipment thus far has leen held up.
Permits previously isued to pass muni
ARM
If
OM
SEVEN
tions, arms, ammunition or explosives from Chihuahua City, they will be sent
Ordering Of Troops Over
Border Steadies Congress
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
WASHINGTON, March 12. The or-
derinc of American troops into Mexico-'
and the administration's victory in the
armen snip controversy, nave nau a
steadying effect on congress, which for
several weeks has been a storm cen-
t?r over international airairs. i tne aerense f.ians oi tne auinnistra- I Three former Villa generals were ar-
With these issues apparently out Of; tiort is admitted, nor does any one deny rr,sted by the police here tonight. They
th way congressional leaders hope to1 that it will win votes for preparedness. were ju'ii0 pabela, Samuel Rodriguez
make rapid progress with important Meanwhile, however, the repeal of the 1 juan Rodriguez. They were taken
domestic business, particularly the ap-I free sugar provision of the tar;.rf law, from a house where they were sleep
propriation bills and the national de-j and the immigration bid with its modi- -ng antj charged with vagrancy The
ronse program, witnin ten days at
ItkQut I Via hmian (ivncct a in ha'P tho
CARRANZA WILL BALK
AT INVASION UNLESS
SAME RIGHT GIVEN HIM
Issues Manifesto Declaring Under No Circumstances
Would Mexican Government Grant United States
Right to Violate Her Ne utrality by Sending Armed
Force in Pursuit of Villa Without Consent and Re
ciprocal Privilege Being Extended Washington
Says Carranza May Send Troops into United States
in Pursuit of Bandits. When American Troops Are
Unable to Effect Their, Capture
(Republican A. P. Leased Wire)
MEXICO CITY, March 12. General Carranza to
night issued a manifesto to the nation declaring that
under no circumstances would the Mexican government
grant to the United States a right to violate her neutral
ity hy sending an armed force in pursuit' of Villa with
out the consent and reciprocal privilege being first ob
tained and admitted. AVord was sent to the confidential
agent of the Mexican government in Washington to
make immediate representations to this effect:
(ieneral Carranza says in his manifesto:
"I am sure that I interpret in this matter the nation
al sentiment and that the Mexican people will comply in
a dignified manner with their duty, be the sacrifices
what they may, to sustain their rights and sovereignty,
if unfortunately this drags us into a war a war which
the United States can never justify. We .will not be re
sponsible for the disastrous consequences. Upon the
heads of the traitorous Mexicans who, within and with
out this country, have labored to produce this result, will
fall the inexorable justice of the people."
The full text of General Carranza'
manifesto follows:
'Because of the assault which
Francisco Villa and the bandits who
accompanied him made on the town
of Columbus in American territory,
burning houses and killing some of
the inhabitants, soldiers, as well as
civilians, the international situation
in thepe moments is very delicate, as
the North American press have il
cited their people against Mexico and
the government of that country has
discussed 'he situation in the Ameri-
can congress, members of w hich have i
advised intervention.
"The constitutional government,
which I have the honor to rcpr;ent,
is nlfo occupied diligently in an effort
tn solve this delicate situation, trying
at all costs to maintain the dignity
and 'sovereignty of Mexico, and we
yet hope that this lamentable incident .
may ne decorously arranged and that j
there will be no reason for an inter-,
national conflict.
'I have addressed the government
nf tha T'nitH Sfntp. through the
,; ata,t' th,,t ih ....
vaaion of Villa has historical prece-
dents, as in the years 1S80 and 1 SS5.
AT
m
MEXICANS
NOGALES
I without reciprocal rights being grant-
ed to the Mexicans and that not for
at Agua Prieta have been cancelled. an instant will the invasion of Mex
Mexican troops which arived in Agua ican territory or an outrage to its
Prieta today were quicklv passed south, dignity be tolerated.
.,, ,. ... , . . I "I am sure that in this I interpret
reported the arival of reinforcements.
republican A. P. Leased Wire i
EL PASO, Tex., March 12. Six hun-
dred Mexican cavalrymen -are on theirj
Iwav to Casas Grandcs to co-operate I
with General Bertani against Villa and
... .
relieve the 500 Mormon colonists in
the district from the danger of Villa"s
threatened attack, it was announced
here tonight.
The announcement was made by Dr.
J. O. H. Newby, an American, formerly
surgeon in the Carranza army, and now
close to the de facto government, by the
authority of General Gavira. These
troops arc under the command of.Gen
eral Garza and are coming directly to
Juarez, where they are expected early
tomorrow morn.ng.
Immediately upon
arrival direct
f army reorganization bill before it. The
senate already is at work on the gov-
ernment.armor plate plant bill and will
have the senate army reorganization
oui oeiore :t neiore manv more oava-
That the military activity in Mexico
I will serve to hasten the completion of
uen literary test must De disposed ot.
. Ttoth trnlt!i hi 1- l-HI ho naa.Ml thin rauL 1
1
MEXICAN CAVALRYMEN ON WAY
TO RELIEF ! iRifl COLONY
two parties of Indians coming from
the United States, invaded Sonora
and Chihuahua, committing crimes
and depredations on the lives and
properties of Mexicans.
"It was agree 1 then between the
governments of the two countries to
permit the respective prospect of
armed forces, resulting in the exter
mination of the Indians. I have asked
the American government to pursue a
like course, in order to solve future
difference, should they arise, noting
that Villa and his companions are a
Igrouo of bandits whose acts the Mex
ican government or peojle woi.ld not
be responsible for. and that his re-
proachable conduct is due to instill
tions of the reactionary element, that
lacking patriotism and convinced o'
its defeat, is trying hy I'll means to
bring on armed intervention,
have not yet received the answer
(,f the American government end from
the reports of my chiefs along the
frontier learn that the American forc-
oi-a mnlttHvinf. t, nnr;ie nnrl caii-
..'.- ., ,iii..., "m t th Mtt,
authorities; that the expedition is in
the nature of a punitive campaign
and that the sovereignty of Mexico
will be respected.
"The constitutional government has
given instructions to its confidential
j agent at Washington immediately to
i make representations that under no
circumstances will any motive, be the
reasons or explanations of the United
States what they may, justify the
armed invasion of Mexican territory
(Continued on Page Three)
south to Guzman on the other line.
General Gavira asked to have it stated
,,.,, mon fnrim.r ro who vs. are well
v.
amcipiinea ana .ova,. .,
owa ariei-mnle fnfPS nre ETUarding tne
- " ' "
Mormons concentnueu ai lums adequately supplied.
Grandes. "A Villa follower can live on little
The. troop train was expected at ,,r nothing. An Ameritan soldier
Juarez this afternoon and its delay oc- J must be well fed if he is to give good
casioned considerable speculation as to service.
the cause. General Gavira says the "We won't gain anything by haste,
delay was due entirely to difficulties To send an inadequate force, in
with fuel, and running stock. (sufficiently prepared, after Villa would
The general also investigated the hinder, and not hasten matters."
rumor current here today that Cliihua- j Speaking regarding the course the
hua City was in the hands of Villa campaign will take, General Funston
sympathizers. He telegraphed there
land received .word in return that con -
ditions are normal, the people and the peaitionary lorce, aitnougn i am
government secure. not at liberty to say how many or
There is no positive news at the from what point or points they will
Juarez headquarters regarding the start.
whereabouts of Villa or the fact that he J "All this will be left to the dis
has gone south. The report that he is certion of the expeditionary com
at porralitos is unverified, but thought mander, who will have complete
possible. charge of all the forces in the field.
The cutting of the telegraph line be- 1 don't believe in swivel chair cam
tween Casas Grandes. where the Amer- I Paigning.
ican Mormon colonists are, and Juarez, I - "Necessarily, the campaign will
was announced tonight by Andreas
i ,:;arcja carranza consul. The fact that
villa's' fnrcea were i heird nf near
r-nrralitos near this telecranh line he-
tween Juarez and Casas Grandes'
I caused some apprehension for the
' American colonists
' arrest was part nf a roundun of sus
piio js Mexicans,
FUNSTON DOES
uon
MENU. ME
Outlines Plan to Take Fran
cisco Villa Dead or Alive,
And Savs It Is of No Use
to Goaf It "Half-Cocked"
or Unprepared
SAYS TASK IS
ARDUOUS ONE
Border Situation So Pre
carious As to Hinder the
Rapid Concentration of
Troops for Punitive Ex
pedition to Get Villa
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
SAN ANTONIO, Tex. March 12.
Major General Frederick Funston to
day outlined his plans for the capture
"dead or alive" of Franciso Villa
and his band of outlaws.
"W'e do not ourselves know just
when the expedition will start in to
Mexico, although, of course, it will be
soon," he declared.
"It will go forward just as soon
as a sufficient number of men with
an adequate commissary can be or
ganized. It will not be held back,
however, until all the troops now or
dered to the border have arrived.
"There is no use going at this
thing half-cocked. The tank ahead
of us will be a long and arduous one."
It became known today that the
plans for the campaign against Villa
have heen affected by the border
situation elsewhere than at Columbus,
N. M. The situation is so important
as to have hindered rapid concentra
tion of the punitive expedition that
will go after the perpetrators of the
Columbus outrage.
Great excitement, has been noted,
it is authoratively stated, in the Car
ranza garrisons at Nogales. opposite
the Arizona border town of that name,
and at Piedras Negras, which fronts
Eagle Pass, Tex., from across the
Rio Grande.
This uneasiness has extended to the
large Mexican population on the
American side. Troop now stationed
on the border are s;:fticient to cope
with any situation that may arise.
(Jeneral Funston says. However, as
it is his intention to use these troops
in the search for Villa and as they
cannot be moved until other detach
ments arrive to replace them, com
plete organization of the expeditionary
military has been held up
Army circles feel bound to respect
the fear of residents in American
towns that, notwithstanding assuranc
es from General Carranzas represen
tatives, uprisings may follow the ac
tual occupation of Mexican territory
by American soldiers. It is felt that
the welfare of the border cannot be
sacrificed to the doubtful success
of a hasty and, therefore, unprepared
pursuit of the fugitive Villa.
General Funston's statement regard
ing the uncertainty of the punitive ex
peditions departure was in reply to
what he termed the impatience of
the American people for speedy ac
tion. "The people must be patient," he
said. "We must adequately prepare
for this thing.
"In the first place, we must use.
as much as possible, soldiers who
are accustomed to Mexican border
duty. However, these men cannot
be removed from their present posts
until they are relieved by troops
drawn from other departments and
hurried to the border.
"Transportation of the relief -trols
is not an easy matter. Many of
these troops consist of scattered de
tachments that have to be concen
trated, sometimes after difficult march
es, before they can be sent south-
ward.
"Concentration and transportation
of troos is not a" (,ul" Problem,
however. We are going to march into
a countrv that will afford us litUe or
. j, mi- ; . . .
j lorage. me commissary must De
said
j "There will be more than one ex-
aeeiop n situations ana tne ais-
posuI ot
upon the
tne troops is contingent
ese developments. I may at
'nervals visit the field forces.
course me expeauion win not
awuit tne arrival at the border of all
"le trooPR now being dispatched from
oiner aeparimentai stations, it will
be gotten under way just as soon as
possible and as other troops arrive
they will be sent forward as reinforce
ments. i f:i Paso naturally win ne the base
of supplies for our army.
El Paso
(Continued on Page Six)
VILLA
TO MAKE PURSUIT
MEXICO CITY HEARS OF
ATTACK ON COLUMBUS
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
MEXICO CITY, March 12. The news
of the attack on Columbus by Villa and
bis followers was first made public
here this morning, when the official
organ, El Pueblo, published the text
of the note of the Mexican government
asking the government at Washington
to permit the passage of Mexican sol
diers into American territory, if such
became necessary in the pursuit ot
Villa, and at the same time granting
to the United States the reciprocal
privilege of entering Mexican teiritory
for the same purpose. ,
Under the caption, "The Columbus
Case Roguery of Natives and For
eigners," El Pueblo says editorially:
"The infamous and traitorous work
of reactionaries in the United States
has finally reached its most abhorenl
point. Because they were impotent to
stem the military and political tri
umphs .if constitutionalism, they have
tried to force armed intervention by
the l'n:ted States in the affairs of
Mexico, in an endeavor to regain their
lost power.
"These enemies of civlizition and
liberty conspire against the harmony
and peace that ought to prevail be
tween the two peoples, who, because
of thf ir inclinations, culture, ideals and
SECRECY STILL
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
WASHINGTON. March 12. Secrecy
regarding General Funston's plans for
moving against Villa and his bands
has been so rigidly enforced at the
war department that even high offi
cials of the government are in doubt
as to whether American troops actu
ally had crossed the Mexican border.
Secretary Baker announced late to
night that the Twenty-third infan
tdy, now at Galveston. Texas, had
been ordered to El Paso because of
fear of Mexican attacks felt in many
towns along the border. The regiment
aoout 1.000 strong, will be stationed
at points designated by General Fun
ston. In order to the 23rd. the secretary
said, was the only important develop
ment of the day of which the depart
ment ;iad any knowledge and that
nothing had come from General Fun
ston cr from any other source indi
cating that the advance guard of the
expeditionary force was aliady on
Mexican soil. He said he would make
(Continued on paire Six)
HINT
Armies Concentrating On
Both Sides Of The Border
. , "L .
Republican A. P. Leased WireJ rar,z!' soldiers will catch Villa before ' time tomorrow,
ii rc rp.. ii .u ii c. , i United States troops have time to enter There was likewise still uncertainty
r.L. rANi. lex., Alaich 1-. unuaj .... i . . . , ... .
passed without movement of anyMpxlC0- today in the Juarez headquarters as to
American puniive expedition into Mex- I The report that the peril of the Mor- I whi Corralitos dla was reported to
i .... . . - i be near. One is n. ranch about fifteen
ico l in hnlh turlee rf th hnrrtpr hnv.
ever. American and Carranza armies
made noticeable progress toward con-
centrating their forces for the hunt for
Francisco Villa in northern Chihuahua. !
The plight of 500 Mormons, colonists '
at C.isas Grandes, who fear attack by1,
Villa was reported better tonight.
John Churchill, an American of El
Paso, who arrived in Juarez today
frnm f 'hil-iti-ihiTi riti tatiA h-if iihilo
;'i " '" ".
mi i.c uiwci nniciiiaii.. nun-
ln3 for their train in Chihuahua, Mex-
cans threatened them, saying that all
of hem would be hanged before they
reached the border. The Americans
made the journey in safety.
The horse races in Juarez had a
large crowd of Americans today, ap
parently attracted by some purso
races. Mexicans for the most part re
mained silent about the American ex-
peditionary force's. Most of those who
talked expressed the hope that Car-
Troops From California In
Readiness For Mexican Duty
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
SAX FRANCISCO, March 12. The
troops (if the First cavalry, stationed
at Monterey and San Diego, received
orders today to proceed to Douglas,
Ariz., ready for immediate service
across the border. Arrangements for
their transportation have been com
pleted. The six troops at Monterey,
in command of Colonel Frederick S.
Foltz, were expected to get away to
night and' the San Diego contingent
was to start tomorrow morning.
BREAKING UP HIS BAND
geographical position, are called upon
jointly to share the task of working
out the destinies of this western hem
isphere. "The invitation of the Mexican gov
ernment, founded as it is, in interna
tional practice, is the most efficient
means for satisfying public sentiment.
We are proudly convinced that the
American government, maintaining
that serenity and judgment so neces
sary in thee unhappy events, will fol
low its initial policy with respect to
the Mexican government and will com
bine with it to take such action as
circumstances warrant.
In this way the misery of war thus
provoked by the criminal maneuvers
of the enemies of both countries and
both peoples will have been averted.
At an rate, we can assure the whole
world that Mexico will never lose her
international citizenship because, be
fore that, she would prefer to succumb
gloriously in the rough sea of a heroic
struggle the supreme recourse of a
people born never to be slaves."
General Carranza arrived at Quere
taro last night, to which town he hur
ried with his cabinet from Guadela
jara. Hi will remain in the provisional
i capital until the crisis is past.
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
EL PASO, March 12. Rapid con-
centration of American cavalrv. in-
fantry and :irUHery was under way
tonight along the Mexican border
west of here, opposite the territory
whre Villa is in hiding. Three bat
teries of the Fourth field artillery. A,
B and C left here tonight for thin
border. The concentration point or
points, were not revealed, except that
one of them was Columbus, N. M.,
which Villa raided.
Reports late tonight indicated im.
portant American troop movements
on the Arizona-Sonora boundary line,
Strong cavalry patrols were reported
close to the boundary in the vicinity
of San Bernardino. These movements
led to persistent reports that small
American forces were prepared for a
o.uick dash acoss the international
line in that region.
Guard Nogales Border
DOUGLAS, Ariz., March 12. Amer
ican" army patrols with three days
rations were tonight assigned to
(Continued on Page Three)
' mon rolonisrs nas decreased came trom '
! Gabriel Gavira
Juarez commander. He
asserted that he considered the Amer-I
ican colonists perfectly safe, under the j
protection of the troops of Colonel'
Samuel Gonzales. Gavira said he has
not yet received any instructions from
CONCENTRATION
OECAim
inn i ininrn uiiif
VUlLLUHW
I
General Carranza m ..6a,aM .... . aBU ...u uu.,..
, ; But Genera! Gavira said that General
The two trams that were expected to j Certani who is trying to head off the
arrive in Juarez from Chihuahua City;,. .hpIll frn nr(h hc,Ilv ,w
I Ui , i, cAa
I
men oi .Tiiiei.u oenjamin uarza ana
the other General Luiz Gutierrez, com-
mander in chief of Chihuahua, with a
military escort, iid not appear, a fact !
for which no explanation was offered j
at the military headquarters in Juarez.
All that could be learned was that th;
trains had been stopped at La Guna, a
station not far from Chihuahua. The
officers at Juarez affirmed that the
halt, whatever its cause, was not due
! to the Villistas. They said they
thought the train would arrive some
r The entire First cavalry, except
Troops 3 and M, which will remain at
Calexico, will assemble at Douglas,
it was announced, in full fighting trim.
, The San Diego and Monterey de
tachments will take with them pack
train, hospital and bakery equipment.
It will require forty cars to move
the four troops from San Diego and
their equipment, and two trains of
seventy-six cars altogether were ready
today at Monterey for Colonel Fottz
and his troopers.
DIFFICULT
Outlawed Mexican Plans to
Elude Pursuit by Break
ing His Force Into Small
Bands and Hiding Among
the Mountains
MANY TROOPS
ARE MOVING
Owing to Inadequate Rail
road Facilities and Wide
ly Scattered Positions It
May Be Several Days Be
fore Border is Crossed
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
COLUMBUS, N. M., March 12. Re
ports multiplied here today that Fran
cisco Villa is disintegrating the force
of 1,50a to 2,500 men which he used
to support or to make the Columbus
raid iast Thursday.
American military authorities said
today that if possible it would have
been advisable to go after Villa
Thursday when his raiders fled south
ward. They were then demoralized
and were dropping loot and war ma
terials before the attack of fifty-nine
men under Major Frank Thornpkins.
Requests of Colonel Herbert Slocum.
commanding the Thirteenth Cavalry
here, and Major Tompkins to le jiN
lowed to renew the pursuit Friday
with n larger force were denied pend
ing the organization of the large
punitive expedition.
Today it was stated that this expe
dition, owing to inadequate railroad
facilities, and the widely scattered po
sition of the troops necessary to con-
stitute it who have been cn patrol
I duty, might require several days prep
jaration before it could enter Mexlro,
! at least from this point.
Meanwhile reports from Mexican
sources stated that Villa apparently
was carrying out a plan to elude
pursuit by breaking up his force into
small bands and hiding among the
mountains. Some of his forces were
, reported to be approaching the So-
! nnrn Mtat. lmnlpr Others were siiiH
j to he making their way southward
and southeastward today toward the
mountains of the San Geronimo dis
trict, from which the bandit chieftain
started March 1, with the annourcert
intention of invading the United
States.
Information was received here to
dav that two regiments of infantry
and a battalion of mountain anil-
j lery were being sent here from the
east, in addition to a battalion of the
i .Sixth artillery from Nogales, Ariz..
j and a single company,
Genera! Slocum said he had been
advised that the first squadron of
the Thirteenth Cavalry also had been
ordered to join the regiment. The
Thirteenth, on account of its exploit
Thursday in beating off an over
whelming number of Mexicans after a
stiff fight," in which they inflicted
possibly fifteen times the number of
their own casualties, is said to have
been assigned to the duty of taking
(Continued on Page Thre)
" T " ...
Lw .f"H'"" "l. 1 ,!!lillm'1
w"1l ,gue x "'a control of the line
Mexicans who talked with Villas
troo r,r e v.olUmb'f raid
say ,!Ia. to d ",eTm hls nxtT move
Villa intends to strike down the course
' P rii,ji,, ;,. . :, o:
a whe e he b y hopes to e"
I m 1!.., mu.-
build his reputation politically.
General Gavira said he has heard
that President Carranza has left the
1'rovisional capital at Querataro for
Aguas Califntes on a matter of state.
The Sixth and the Sixteenth United
States Infantry broke, camp here to
day. At Brigadier General Pershing's
headquarters it was said that they
might entrain eaily tomorrow, or even
tonight, but information about their
destination was refused.
Officers who were asked to confirm
reports that these two regiments would
be sent along the Xew Mexican or
the Arizona border to relieve cavalry
from patrol duties, refused fo say any
thing. Mrs. Maud Hawk Wright, who was
taken to Columbus by the Villa sol
diers has not yet recovered her baby,
which was taken from her when her
husband was killed. She said tonight
that the has assurances that the baby
is well and in the care of her friend,
Charles Peeler, in Pearson. She does
not expect to receive the baby for sev
eral days.
H. c. Myles, British consul here, waV
refused permission today to send a
code message to the British vice con
sul in Chihuahua City. This was under
the Mexican censorship.
IF
