I1 H
Today's Metal Prices I TlL tl aaM TWvXvwX 4 B. M. CITY EDITION
I copper, quiet, electrolytic, nearby " '7 tei 'Tk ' " T ( 7 ' , , WEATHER-Utah: Tonight and . H
Kf S28.50 and $28.85; June and S' r V"" ' ' Tuesday Generally Fair; Colder To- ) M
S27.2527.50. ,ater - hl0ht' iH
If- HAS THE LARGEST PAID SUBSCRIPTION LIST IN OGDEN AND WEBER COUNTY. :
j Forty-sixth Year-No. 62. Pri(je: Kve Centa OGDEN CITY, UTAH, MONDAY EVENING, MARCH 13, 1916. Entered aa Second Class Matter at the Postofflce, Ogden. Utah. I 'H
1 U. S. Troops Rushing From all Points to
Join Funston Forces at Mexican Border; I
Gen. Pershing to Fix Hour of Crossing
jUTED STATES ACCEPTS PROPOSAL
; i OF CARRAIA AND SENDS MESSAGE
I ;
I Army Continues Steady Preparation to Carry Out President
Wilson's Order to Pursue Villa Bandits Sufficient
American Troops to Be Kept at Border to Prevent
Further Incursions Military Operations Will
Be Strictly Confined to Capture of Villa
If , and His Followers.
g Washington, March 13. The United
States this afternoon accepted Gen-
eral Carranza's proposal for a recl-
procal arrangement by which either
his troops or American troops may
pursue bandits on either side of the
!; border. A note of acceptance was
sent forward to General Carranza at
IQueretaro.
The army today continued steadily
preparing to carry out President Wil
son's orders to pursue the Villa ban
dits. No movements of troops across the
border were reported to the war de
partment although they were expected
hourly.
In practice it will have no effect be
cause American troops will be kept
in sufficient numbers on the border
IM to make Incursions of Mexican troops
E unnecessary but at the same time it
is expected to avoid a controversy
with General Carranza,
jj Lansing Issues Statement.
I Later Secretary Lansing issued this
I statement:
I "In order to remove any misappre-
henslqn that may exist either .in the
t United States or in Mexico, the pres
j ident has authorized me to give In his
name the public assurance that the ,
i- military operations now in contempla
s Uon by his government will be scru
? pulously confined to the object al-
Teady announced, and in no circum
5 Ftances will they be suffered to in
,1 fringe in any degree upon the sov
ereignty of Mexico or develop Into
,' Intervention of any kind in the Inter-
nal affairs of our sister republic. On
! the contrary, what is now being done
; is deliberately Intended to preclude ,
' the possibility of intervention."
J Text of Note to Carranza.
s This is the text of the reply to
General Carranza's proposal, sent to
i American ConBul Sllllman:
i "The government of the United
v States has received the courteous note
of Senor Acuna and has read with sal
'i isfactlon his suggestion for reclpro
i cal privileges to the American and
i Mexican authorities in the pursuit and
apprehension of outlaws who Invest
I their respective territories lying along
i the international boundary and who
' are a constant menace to the lives
3 and property of residents of that reg
j ion.
j The government of the United
, States in view of the unusual state of
i affairs which has existed for some
; time along the international boundary
5 and earnestly desiring to co-operate
. with the de facto government of Mex-
4co to suppress this state of lawless-
nees, of which the recent attack on
; Columbus, N. M., is a deplorable ex
'. ample, and to insure peace and order
I in tho region contiguous to the
f boundary between the two republics,
J readily grants permission for military
forces of the de facto government of
! Mexico to cross the international
; boundary In pursuit of lawless bands
' of armed men who have entered Mexl
i co from the United States, committed
j outrages on Mexican soil and fled Into
the United States on the understand
ing that the de facto government of
Mexico grants the reciprocal privilege
that the military forces of tho United
, States may pursue across the Inter
national boundary into Mexican terrl
I tory lawless bands of armed men who
' have entered the United States from
: r Mexico, committed outrages on Amer
,' lean soil and fled into Mexico.
"The government of the United
StateB understands that in view of its
agreement to this reciprocal arrange
ment proposed by the do facto govern
ment, the arrangement is now com
plete and In force and tho reciprocal
privileges there under may accord
ingly be exercised by either govern
ment without further interchange or
i views. , ,
Co-operation Sincerely Gratifying.
"It Is a matter of sincere gratifl
1 cation to the government of the unu.
! ed States that the de facto govern
ment of Mexico has evinced so coru
ial and friendly a spirit of co-opcra-tlon
in the efforts of tho authorities
of the United States to fXo
and punish the bands of plas &o
seek refuge beyond the international
boundary in tho erroneous ee JJJf
I tho constituted authorities will resent
U any pursuit across tho boundary b
' the forces of the government whose
I citizens have suffered by the crimes
Of the fugitives. nrrHal
"With the same splnt of cordto.
friendship the government or tn
E United Statea will erctae the prir
El Uego granted by tho do facto .gov
K ernment of Mexico in the tyj8 and,
confident expectation that, by the r
M mutual efforts, lawlessness win pe
eradicated and peace and order mam
,tained in the territories of the United
States and Mexico contiguous to the
intematlonal boundary."
Two Mexicans Killed.
El Paso, Texas, March 18. Two
Mexicans were killed In Columbus, N.
M., the day following the Villa raid,
it was learned today. They wero shot
by armed civilians who considered
their actions suspicious.
Smelting Company Removes Employes
New York, March 13. All Ameri
can employes of the American Smelt
ing & Refining company have been
withdrawn from Mexico, it was an
nounced by the" company today. Tho
men arrived at Laredo, Texas, yester
day from the smelting plants at Mon
terey and Matehuln. Operations were
resumed in these plants about six or
eight weeks ago.
nn
SENATE 1 RUSH
Would Drop All Other Legisla
tion and Immediately Con
sider National Prepared
ness Program.
MORE SOLDIERS NEEDED
Chairman Chamberlain Ex
pects to See All Mexicans
Rally Round Villa.
Washington, March 13. Senator
Borah, Republican, urged the senate
today to drop all other legislation and
Immediately consider the national
preparedness problem in view of the
consequences that might arise from
the decision to pursue General Villa
in Mexico.
Senator Borah gave President Wil
son's determination to send troops
across the border to capture outlaws
his full endorsement, but declared It
would be the height of folly for the
congress not to press preparations
for war when no one could tell what
the present military action might lead
to. All Central America, he said, was
apprehensive over the movement of
American troops south of the Rio
Grande, no matter what the motive
may be.
Sparks of Dissension Flying.
"Sparks of dissension are constant
ly flying from Europe over this hemi
sphere," Senator Borah declared. "No
man knows one day what emergency
the country' may have to face tho
next. This defense program cannot
be' completed In a week. It may take
months to formulate the plans for na
tional defense urged by tho president
"Judging from the present condi
tion of this legislation one of two
things must be true. Either the pres
ident is sadly in error as to the re
quirements of the situation which con
fronts us, or congress is sadly In er
ror in Its failure to respond more
qu'ckly to the president's requests.
"Cortainly nothing can bo less for
tunate at such a time as this as for
congress and tho executive to disa
gree over this Important issue. I do
Sot disapprove of the action the presi
dent has taken In pursuing into Mex-
ico those who invaded the United
States and murdered our citizens.
Chairman Chamberlain of the mill-
tarv committee told the senato that in
: uis opinion tho United States army
did not have enough soldiers to cope
with Mexico or enough equipment. He
added he would not bo surprised to
so all Mexicans rally around Villa.
None Can Foresee Result.
"Yet no man knows the conse-
ouences which might follow from our
i entering Mexico," ho said, "even for
I the purpose set forth by the presl-
dent The probabilities that may
I arise from the fact 'that wo have ln
t vaded Mexico aro many. The diffl
t cultv is we have started a train over
r which we'eannot exercise control and
J we aro under a solemn obligation to
meet any condition that may arise.
150,000 Men Needed.
I "Experts tell us that it will require
3 an army of 50,000 men in Mexico and
- 100 000 to protect the border. In the
- face of such circumstances shall we
1 confine our efforts here for the next
r few weeks to legislation that can
a wait or take advantage ofvthe situa-
- tlon 'and here and now, once arid for
1 all sot ourselves to consummation of
a plan of preparedness and give no
tice to all the world that congress
and the president are in accord with
respect to this situation?"
Senator Chamberlain said not more
than 30,000 regulars were In contl
lental United States and ho estimated
.hat not more than half those could
bo used in Mexico.
Time to Whip Mexicans.
"If we think wo can go into Mexico
and whip them into order in a few
weeks this country will be mistaken,"
said the senator. "I would not be
surprised to see every Mexican rally
around Villa or one standard to whip
the United States. Besides lacking
men wo lack equipment ;such as aero
planes sufficient to meet the present
emergency.
Senator Smoot, Republican, declar
ed he believed, there were more ma
chine guns in Mexico today than In
United States and more ammunition.
He said the United States could not
put inoro than 25,000 men on the Mex
ican border.
Senator Hoke Smith suggested that
the military committee bring In an
army bill immediately to double the
enlisted strength.
Senator Simmons asked Chamber
lain If the national guard would not
bo available for patrol duty along
the border.
Senator Chamberlain replied there
were about 129,000 men In the nation
al guard and all were available for
service.
nn
OLD MONTEREY
Place Totally Destroyed With
in Six Hours After First
Cavalry Leaves for
Border.
INVESTIGATION STARTS
Firemen Find Water Supply
Cut Post Was Ancient
Military Headquarters of
General W. T. Sherman.
Monterey, Calif., March 13. The
headquarters building of the Monte
rey presidio, was totally destroyed by
fire this morning, about six hours aft
er being vacated by troops of the first
cavalry who left for the Mexican bor
der. Firemen attempting to extin
guish, the flames found that the wa
ter supply had been shut off at the
source.
An Investigation was started Imme
diately by caretakers left In charge.
Monterey was tho Spanish and Mexi
can capital of California and the pres
idio occupies the site of the ancient
military headquarters. The post was
an uncompleted one, described by
military authorities as a sort of can
tpnmcnt, with old wooden barracks
sufficient to accommodate a regiment.
Thes6 were of the type common at
tho presidio of San Francisco, where
several persons, including the wife
and three daughters of Brigadier-General
John J. Pershing, have been burn
ed to death.
The monetary loss, it was said, is
of small moment.
The blaze itself was comparatively
brief. Tho leaping flames outlined
the grass covered parapets of the old
earthworks thrown up by an Amer
ican landing party in 1846, and even
lighted the adobe house where, a lit
tle later, General W. T. Sherman, then
a raw lieutenant lived, and what was
the adobe American consulate.
Safe and Postofflce Saved.
Tho headquarters safe and the con
tents of tho postofflce were saved;
all other records and papers were de
stroyed. Major James G. Harboard in
chargo of the post, refused to discuss
the origin of tho fire until he had
made his own Investigation,
Much weight was given by military
authorities, It became known, to the
fact that the flro started in the head
quarters building. Probably the first
Intimation was received In telephone
headquarters at Monterey, where the
switchboard lamps connecting with
the army post bogan to wink. The
operators, howevpr, were unable to
"reach" the post 'land said later that
tho signals must have been caused
by the burning out of the poBt switch
board. A few minutes later two sol
dier caretakers burst into tho Mon
terey fire department calling for help.
Private D. F. Saylor, post telephone
oporator, awake at 3 a. m. saw no
fire but forty minutes later he rush
ed from the building choking. It was
fifteen minutes, it was Bald, after the
firemen responded before water en
tered the house.
In the burned building, almost a to
tal loss, were located tho postofflce,
telegraph office, print shop and head
quarters. Tho only troops remaining
here are tho ambulance corps, field
hospital and cook school.
oo
Paris and France Principal James
L. Barker of the Weber academy de
livered a lecture lest night, at the
Eleventh ward meeting house, on the
BUbJoct of Paris and France.
TROOPS LEAVE
TOR THE BORDER
Regiments of Artillery and
Cavalry With Full Equip
ment Responding to Gen
eral Funston's Call.
AID SENT TO MORMONS
Villa Reported in Neighbor
hood of Carralitos Scout
Train Reports to Juarez
Commandant.
El Paso, Texas, March 13 In spite
of official denials, reports persisted
here today that American cavalry on
the Arizona state line had gathered
for immediate crossing of the Mexi
can border and that they might go
across at any moment today. An ad
vance guard of several cavalry troops
was collected on that border two days
ago with the prospect that It might
be the first force into Mexico.
A reassuring conference was held
here today between Brigadier-General
John J. Pershing, commander of the
American expeditionary force, and
General Gabriel Gaviera, Carranza
commander at Juarez. During the con
ference word arrived from Washing
ton unofficially that General Car
j ranza's request to cross the American
border might be granted. This news
was cordially received by General Ga
viera. The point whero the cavalry expedi
tion Is reported gathering today to
enter Mexico on the Arizona boundary
is near San Bernardino, Mexico.
' Arti'llery Frtm Mogales.
Columbus, N. M., March 13. A bat
tery of the Sixth field artillery con
sisting of 132 men equipped with four
three-Inch field guns and 12 caissons,
arrived here today ifrom Nogales, Ari
zona. Large stores of forage and oth
er supplies for field service also were
received including 92 horses from tho
Eighth cavalry at Fort Bliss for the
Thirteenth cavalry to bring the regi
ment's mounts to the full quota.
The second section of the Fourth
field artillory from Fort Bliss with
400 men under command of Colonel
L. G. Berry, with the six mountain
guns, arrived here today.
Tennessee Cavalry For Border.
Chattanooga, Tenn , March 13 The
last of the seven trains carrying the
Eleventh cavalry to tho Mexican bor
der left Fort Oglethorpe this morning.
Tho train carried ten wagons, the ma
chlno guns and the machine gun troop.
Troops Leave Cheyenne.
Denver, Col., March 13. Troops E
and H. of tho Twelfth United States
cavalry left early today from Chey
enne en route for the Mexican border.
At railroad headquarters it was said
the troops would depart about noon.
Student Officers Join Rcg'ments.
Junction City, Kansas, March 13.
Fourteen student officers of the moun
ted service school left Fort Riley for
the border today to join their regi
ments. They belong to the six caval
ry regiments now stationed there.
Equipment For 10,000.
Philadelphia, Pa., March 13. Twen
ty carloads of clothing and equipment
to supply the needs of 10,000 United
States soldiers In a campaign in Mex
ico were shipped late last night from
tho Schuylkill arsenal here to the
Mexican border.
A rush order for the material was
received from Washington at noon
Sunday and before 10 o'clock last
night tho cars had been loaded.
El Paso, Texas, March 13. Cavalry
troops have been dispatched from La
guna on the line of tho old Mexican
Central railway, north of Chihuahua
City direct to Casas Grandes to aid
the 500 members of the Mormon col
only concentrated at that point but
now cut off from communication with
either Chihuahua City or Juarez.
Genoral Gaviera, commandant at
Juarez, received news of the now cav
alry movement from General Garza
this morning. It followed Immediate
ly upon the report of a scout train that
made a run down the Mexico and
Northwestern lino in the direction of
Casas Grandes but turned back upon
seeing smoke ahead at Santa Sofia
which seemed to come from a burn
ing bridge. Villa was last roported
in the neighborhood of CorralitoB. not
far distant. Assuming that Villa's
forces wero there, the train returned.
Mormons Completely Isolated.
Some months ago the bridges on
the section of tho road between Ma
deira and Tcmosachic, below Grandes,
were destroyed by Villa. As the ele
graph wires to Casas Crandos stopped
working suddenly late yesterday, as
If cut, the Mormons are now complete
ly isolated. But General Gaviera says
his forces there aro ample against
Villa.
General Gulterroz, who was expect
ed to arrive hero this morning, Is at
Laguua, according to Gaviera, direct
ing oporations from there. General
Eygen Garza in command of tho cav
alry of which part has been diverted
at Lacuna may bring down forces
over tho northern loop by way of
Juarez to aid Casas Grandes, Gaviera
says, but since the sudden change in
plans he is not certain.
On the Mexican side of the border
a command of 600 of Carranza'B men
arrived last night at Agua Prleta from
where they will be sent to various
polts near tho line in the states of
Sonora and Chihuahua, according to
Consul Lelovier.
General P. Elias Calles, military
governor of Sonora, questioned as to
Carranza's attitude toward the puni
tive expedition admitted that his re
lations with the Americans depend en
tirely upon the way the matter is
settled between the "first chief" and
President Wilson.
Gustavo A. Lelevier, sent to Colum
bus by Calles to investigate Villa's
raid, said today that the American
press had exaggerated the number of
Villa men killed. He interviewed
seven of the Villa prisoners on the
subject These prisoners declared al
so that they had merely followed
Villa, did not know they were on
American soil and were greatly sur
prised to run Into 'American soldiers.
Douglas, Arizona, March 13. The
distribution of the First and Twelfth
cavalry as border patrols from No
gales, Arizona, eastward into New
Mexico has been announced here.
They will take the place of the Sev
enth and Tenth cavalry in Nogales,
Fort Huachuca and Naco.
Chfcago, March 13. Governor Dun
ne today left for Washington to tell
President Wilson that Illinois state
troops consisting of eight regiments
of Infantry, one of cavalry, one bat
tery and three companies of naval
reserve can be mobilized in 48 hours
for service in Mexico if wanted.
oo
GEN. PERSHING
TO START FORCE
Commander at El Paso to De
cide Exact Hour When U. S.
Expedition Shall Cross
Mexican Line.
San Antonio, Tex., March 13. No
movement of the expeditionary force,
which will search for Francisco Villa,
Is probable today, Major General Fred
erick Funston announced this morn
ing. Tho general said preparations
for the expedition were going right
ahead, despite Genoral Carranza's
notification to the Washington gov
ernment that he would not consent to
American troops entering Mexico un
less Carranza troops were allowed to
enter the United States.
It was officially announced that Brigadier-General
John J, Pershing will
command the expeditionary forces.
Geueral Funston said he had receiv
ed no notification from Washington
to hold back the expedition while ne
gotiations wero completed with Gen
eral Carranza.
General Funston said today that the
announcement of the expedition's act
ual start Into Mexico probably would
come from General Pershing to whom
would be left the decision as to the
exact hour for setting tho movement
afoot.
Shortage of rolling stock, Genoral
Funston said, was hindering the con
centration of cavalry at the base of
operations and this was one reason
why a movement today was unlikely.
The fault, he said, lies with the rail
roads west of El Paso.
"We have even had to transport
men In box cars," ho declared.
"If this had been merely an Infantry
expedition, we could have been Into
Mexico on Villa's very heels," he con
tinued. 'But this is largely a cavalry
movement and that Js why thero has
been dolay."
Size of Expedition.
Light was thrown on the size of the
expeditionary force by tho general,
who said:
"When this movement is completed
there will be only six or eight regi
ments left In the United States other
than those troops stationed along the
border for patrol duty.
"Of course," ho said, "If the Car
ranza government were unable to con
trol the situation and thero should be
general opposition In Mexico to the
entrance of American soldiers (the
entire regular army would have to bo
employed In the movement and part
of the militia too. Patrol duty along
the border would be delegated to the
militia."
It was made clear that this ovontu
ality wns not expected.
There will be no Infantry or cavalry
movements from Fort Sam Houston
for the present, It was announced to
day. The First Aero Squadron, Cap
tain Benjamin D. Foulols, command
ing, went forward to El Paso this
morning.
Reward for Capture of Villa.
Albuquerque, N. M., March 13. A
reward of 40,000 pesos for the body of
Francisco Villa had been standing for
the last sixty days in Carranza con
su'ates, it was disclosed today
through letters to a local Carranza
official.
INFANTRY OPERATIONS AGAINST
VERDUN HAVE BEEN HALTED
No Cessation of Artillery Activities Both French and Ger- H
man Aviators Bombard Towns and Military Stations SH
Berlin Declares Enemy Attack in La Pretre Forest IH
a Failure Turks Report British Mesopotamian H
Force Has Lost 5,000 Men and That Rus-
sians and Italian Armies Have Both H
Met Defeats. j H
Paris, March 13, 2:32 p. m. There
was no infantry fighting last night in
the region to tho north of Verdun, ac
cording to the announcement on the
progress of hostilities made by the
French war office this afternoon.
There has been, however, a continu
ance of the artillery activity along all
this front.
The text of the announcement fol
lows: "There was no infantry fighting
last night north of Verdun. The bom
bardment continued,- however, at
Bethincourt and in the vicinity of
Douaumont, as well as in tho Woevre,
in the sections of Moulalnvllle and
Ronvaux. Our artillery showed great
activity along this front.
"In the region of LePetre a detach
ment of our troops penetrated a trench
of the enemy at a point near Croix
des Carmes along a front of about
200 yards. The men cleaned up tho
saps and after having inflicted some
losses on the enemy they returned to
our lines with about twenty prisoners.
"The night passed quietly on the
remainder of tho front,
"During a night fight a group of
French aviators threw -dawn thirty
shells of large calibre at the railroad
station of Conflans. Flames were
seen breaking out at five different
points. In spite of a violent can
nonade all the French aeroplanes suc
ceeded in getting back without suffer
ing damage."
Lively Artillery Fighting.
Berlin, March 13, via London, 3:22
p. m. The text of today's statement
by Germajv army headquarters fol
lows: "The weather has not been favor
able for observation purposes and
there has been very lively artillery
activity on both sides over a great
part of the front. The activity also
Increased on both sides of the Meuse
and as far as the Moselle.
"Apart from patrol fighting on the
Somme and tho failure of a minor
French attack in LePetre forest there
were no events.
"After much reconnolterlng our air
men attacked enemy railway stations
nnd military depots, especially on the
Clermont-Verdun railway line, with
success.
"Three enemy aeroplanes were de
stroyed in the Champagne and one in
the Meuse region." s
Russians Meat Defeat.
Berlin, March 13, via Wireless to
Sayville. The Austrian official re
plrt today says that Russian troops
undertook offensive movements on
tho DneiBtor and Bessarabian fronts
but their assaults were repelled.
On the Italian front Italian artillery
Is active throughout the Izonso region.
An attack by Italian troops near Selz
was beaten back.
Dutch-Belgian Closed.
London, March 13, 1:15 a. m. An
Amsterdam dispatch to the Central
News says that, on account of the
German offensive at Verdun, the
Dutch-Belgian frontier had been clos
ed for several weeks. That part of it
south of Maastricht has now been re
opened and this fact Is commented on
In Holland as probably indicating that
tho Germans consider their offensive
near an end. The dispatch adds that
eighty-one more hospital trains with
wounded Germans from Verdun have
passed through Luxemburg.
Swiss Border Barred.
Paris, March 13, 11:15 a. m. In or
der to prevent the passage of contra
band Into Switzerland over Lake Con
stance, the Swiss military authorities
are erecting along the Swiss shore of
the lake barbed wire barriers charged
with electricity.
Spanish Steamer Grounded.
London, March 13, 11:44 a. m. Tho
Spanish steamer Maria of 2,132 tons
gross, owned in Bllboa, has grounded
on tho rocks off Cezimbra, Portugal,
and is considered a total Iosb. Tho
Maria was on the way from Marseilles
for Hampton Roads. Assistance has
been Bent.
Review of War Situation.
A pronounced pauso has come in
the German offensive operations
against Verdun, so far as the infantry
arm is concerned, according to the
official bulletins -from Paris.
Sunday passed without Infantry ad
vances but there has been no cessa
tion of artillery play.
French aviators bombarded tho rail
road station at Conflans, where fires
were seen to break out.
i H
The British Mesopotamian force un-
der General Aylmer suffered casual- H
ties of five thousand In the battle of
March 8, according to an estimate by 1 jf
the Turkish war office. jf
Today's Berlin headquarters' state-
ment confirms the French report of . jJ
the comparative quiet prevailing . , jf
around Verdun. i
Berlin declares the French attack
in Le Pretre forest was a failure. ' jH
German aviators have bombarded IH
railway stations and military depots
in tho Verdun region. H
GERMANS SUFFER
ENORMOUS LOSS I
Soldiers Rush From Trenches . B
Repeatedly Only to Melt M
Away Under Big dH
Big Gun Fire. 'IB
PILES OF GERMAN DEAD !j
Prussian Regiments Rush to I iH
Attack Five Times Curtain JH
pf Fire Cuts Off ) !JH
Reinforcements. !
I'l
Paris, JMafch 13, 5:45 a. m. The iH
German losses in the fighting around ' H
Fort Vaux last Friday and Saturday )
surpass all previous records in this itl
war, according to officers who have ijl
returned from Verdun. Time and ifl
time again and with extraordinary nl
courage, the Germans in columns four tjH
deep rushed from their trenches, only .H
to melt away under the fire of the lH
French 75, 150 and 210 millimeter , jll
guns. When the smoke and dust r
cleared nothing was to be seen but , jH
heaps of bodies. H
The spur on which the fort is sit- r
uated Is almost perpendicular in. , il
places. The German lines wero forced 1 ,l
to halt, but many Bavarian reservists SH
climbed up on one another's shoul-w Ml
der's and struggled up the slope, cling- ' i IH
ing to angles of rock and grasping ilH
tufts of grass. Again and again these ' , flH
human pyramids collapsed into shape- 1 i ,J
less grey masses. At the lowest estl- I 'H
mate, the attackers lost two-thirds of , j H
their effectives. -jH
French Outnumbered Six to One. H
The fighting was extremely desper- H
ate when regiments from the Fif- . H
teenth and Eighteenth German army t H
corps attacked the village of Vaux i ' H
on Friday. Dawn was breaking and 1
over the country hung a heavy white H
fog, making everything invisible be- ,H
yond a hundred yards. This enabled pH
tho Germans to get within rushing H
distance of the French front trench- j.H
es, but although they outnumbered 'H
the defenders six to one, it took four fl
distinct assaults before the first col- 'H
umn of Germans won the shelter of a jH
small group of houses beyond the iH
church of Vaux. They then organ- 'H
ized an assault upon the church and JH
the French, being unablo to bring up -jH
reinforcements on account of the Ger- '
man curtain of fire, withdrew their iH
advance elcmentB. Five times the JH
north Prussian regiments rushed to jH
attack the ohurch but every time they H
left the shelter of the ruined houses jH
they wero beaten back by the fire ;
from machine guns and the shrapnel j H
from the French 58 millimeter moun- j jB
tain guns. In the meantime, in their Ml
rear a curtain of fire was kept up by ;
tho French 75's and 210's, so that It L'H
was impossible for munitions and re- ;iH
inforcements to be brought up for ll
their benefit, and the fight died down ( ?
on Friday night from sheer exhaus ',H
tion. V
EXPLOSIONS ABOARD ;
BRITISH STEAMER. ' W
St. John, N. B.. March 13. The . .'f
British steamer Matatua, after being I IH
on flro more than 24 hours, was sunk jjH
at her dock today soon after a series ; iH
of explosions during which her com- H
mander and designer. Captain -LB. fH
Gilham, was killed. It is expected the M
hull of the vessel may be raised and, tlH
refitted. The cargo, which was des- M
tined for New Zealand, probably was j ( H
destroyed. . I (iijH
