n.
Ashland
Ashland Grows While Llthla Flows"
City of Sunshine and flowers
Ashland. Oregon. Lithid' Springs'
"Oregon's Famous Spa'
VOL., XL
ASHLAND. OREGON, MONDAY, MRCH 13, 191 G
N'U.MBKK 84
TT TJ T TV T
Quarry Operation
Is Assured
Development of every kind is op'-n
lng up in southern Oregon. Anuo;
First Auto to
Siskiyou in 1916
Ashland High School Wins
7th Southern Ore. Ctationsblg
Commercial Club
' Comedy Is He:
rfl
nsd
The first car to reach Siskiyou sta
tion, at the summit of the Siskiyou
the projects of the greatest inteeu ' Kr.atle- this yar ,,lule the t,'il t0 thc
to Ashland is the commencement o ! K" "init Friday. The car, a Cadillac,
operations at the Blair granite quar-, " """"j which has come to Ashland bv detent
.7 upon a Bca'e never before attempt- '"t year was driven uy beetey , , Mn(lfo.(1 ,
ed in quarrying in southern Oregon. !! " Medford II s passenge rs- i , HtMy m R j.
J. F. Blair of Portland, the owner i M6f rla,m -. "' (.ie;lI1 HW
of the quarry, and whom, by the way, j Leonard and the California highway
we are told Is able to properly i engineer.
finance an Immense proposition, isj The party started at 7:30 a. m.
rushing the work preparatory to the Bn, reached the summit at 6 p. m.
opening up of the quarry. Christen- j Tlle' encountered snow about six
sen Bros, gave Mr. Blair a right of i,K'llps ir dnl'th abo,lt halt wy
way through their timber property , aml the depth gradua'ly increased to
to the quarry last year, and a road itw feot at t,le summit. Many diffi
was commenced which is now being ; cu,ties w(,re encountered and at times
finished up. The road makes connec- the far was force(1 t0 take 1,10 ol(1
tions with the railroad at Rteinman, roa(L A considerable amount of
the quarry king about a mile and a , work- removing small slides and fill
ing washouts, will have to be accom
plished to put the road in shape for
summer travel.
The Ashland high wliool basket- fhot but ;,' I :a--i.tt in h! two ye-trs
bill team won the seventh consent- on the fi. t '"at,,. Climax oVcrifi-vl
tive southern Oregon championship the crowd ami M.,,t the Ash!n i.I t-n
into pnro. ins of joy by shooting
two beautiful baskets from the center
of tha floor. Harris suffered an off
half from that railroad point.
About twenty men are now at work
instating machinery and working on
the preliminary development. A
power line is being erected to tap the
California-Oregon company's electric
power line at the Nell Creek school
house and will carry power to operate
the giant elpctric motors which will
operate the hoists and other machin
ery. An electric hoist which was
used on the Roosevelt dam has been
purchased by Mr. Blair and Is on the
way.
Business Men's
Meeting Postponed
eop of the four games of the
scries. Ever since basketball has
been played in the valley Ashland
has won the high honors. All four
games were close, the differences in
score ranging from two to seven
points, but with Ashland always on
the long end. The class of ball played tribution
would rank wo 1 with the collego go the
game, and was equal to the best ever
seen in this part of the state. More
Interest was taken In the Eeries be
tween the ancient rivals than ever
before. At a conservative estimate
3,500 people must have i.-efn the ap
proximate attendance for the seres.
This is a larger attendance than
t'irne, out in the entire season for
the games of Portland's best team,
the Mirtnomah Club. 1
N'o hint of lack of sportsmanshi
night and was supercede,! by Buck
in the las-t few minutes, Buck play
ing a cor 'stent aiue end scoring
once. Fraiey wo-ked like a demon,
but his hea!i r guard held him down
c'osely ami one basket and two fouls
converted was the sum of his con-
To "(iravy" I'lyniate must
greatest credit for Friday's
win. and in fact for Ashland's vic
tories throir. bout the series. Piy
niato was in the right place at. the
right minute all the time, blocking
plays, covmepui'ng bis, teammates
Injecting fight am! starting ai most
every pla which scored. It will be
a long tive before Ash and l';g!i de
velops an , tiier man of the qua!i;y of
"Gravy." i
The g!,:.ie was clean a'thn'i::,h qu'te
j Secretary Xorris has received the
manuscript f"r tile mnsi al comedy
which the Commercial C'.iiti is to put
on soon, and the parts are now being
arranged. The p ay will be "The
Cmpire." a rap'd-fire musical com
edy taking in from twenty-five to
forty people. It will lie something
different frcoi anything Ashland has
ever seen in the way of a home tal
ent play. George T. Watson wll
have t'ne direction of the play ill
charge and the musical end will be
in charge of 1). I). Morris, asisted by
Mrs. A. r.. Strick and, formerly Miss
.Natalie Swlgart. The date will be
is
made in the near future, but it
thought that, the same will be early
in Apr'l. The comml'tee in char.'.e
of all arrangements are I). I), Xorris,
(!. Kmlers Jr., V. O. X. S.nit
Strickland am! Lynn Mowat.
h, A.
i'
j marred the series. The games were
D. D. XORRIS, Secretary.
Lewis Auto Line
Gets Hot Dose
The following article appeared in
the Medford Tribune of last Friday:
"The public will be especially in
terested in the disposition of two
cases in Justice Taylor's court Thurs
day, involving the enforcement of
the anti-speed laws in this vicinity.
opment on a large scale was bound to j Ed Wall and Lester Weiss, two jitney
come. It is extremely fortunate that operators for the Lewis vallej line,
the deve'opment comes with a man j were arrested by Constable Ham-
of the experience, ability and means mond for violation of the law. In
of Mr. Blair behind it.
heavy
speedy floor work.
Medford scored the
guarding and
first basket
j The Business Men's Association ; ''O'tgh but elean. The best team won,
will meet in the Commercial Club , '"it only after a hard battle, and the
rooms on tomorrow (Tuesday) even- j lasers vent down doing their best.
, ing at 8 o'clock, In place of this even- Friday Games
I ttir n?t nennnnt nf cnnnia, otran. . -
The quarry development Is a "sure j ti, There be ll;I,0ant mat. j tolJ2rZ Ih7 C"am"
thing." There will be no half heart- t,.rs Ilf.rtainini; to the 0nrani7ation Vlv lnn!m' t,,e thir(1 -"p-ed
attempt and then a failure, but ! a,lle F niht at
real development yr B'air is a! I A , ll,y a s'oro of to 18. Superior ban
real deetopment. ...r. B air Is a j memhoTRi and a good attendance is j kat ghooni, di(1 tnp bllslnes con
ouarrv man of manv vears exner ence s u 1 ' ",lf"ess, ton
" uesneu io uisiut:e 01 me same, bined with
"'v "". inur in Tllere Wjn aiso le interesting talks
the Schannen-Blair company which ! by different members,
created a sensation and captured j p j glilXX, President.
nignest awards at tne exposition with j
their exhibits of granite. Among the t
exhibits was some stone from the
Ashland quarry which was pro-;
nounced to be equal to the best gran
ite quarried anywhere.
The exact number of men who will
be employed has not been announced,
but a large crew of highly paid work
men will be required, and Ash'and
will of course be the supply point for
the quarry.
For years the Ashland granite has
teen acknowledged to be tte best on
the coast, and sooner or later devel-
rough. Ileferee Cooper had the play
ers well in hand all of the time.
The Medford students st.-r.-el a
very efftitive stunt between halves,
Indiaii'SoiiL-s costumes add!ng to
the united efforts of their entire stu
dent bod'-'. And right here we must
pay a compliment to the Ve-lford stu
dent eheei ing section. Whatever hint
of unsportsmanlike conduct occurred
In any game of the series came from
outsiders, the Medford students care
fu'ly refraining from any hint of lack
of sportsmanship. And In fact the
Options Ccme
From Thirty States
S-ei ieta y Xo't'is of the Civumei'
r'al Club made a very interesting re
port at the meeting Monday evening
re"aM!ii,g inquiries received dui'in:;
the month of I'Yhniary bv the dub.
There were U'li inquiries received
an 1 answered. These were divided
as follows: California 20, Oregon
17, Colorado 1.', Washington II,
Iowa i'.. Idaho f, Arizona .', l'ennsy'
vania ', Canada 4, Xevada 3, Okla
homa 3, Illinois 2, Missouri 2, Ar
kansas 2, Wyoming 2. Xew York.
Ashland soon tying when Grisez shot Btudents of both Ashland and Med-Xorth Dakota, Michigan. Indiana,
a beautiful basket from the center
of the floor and going ahead when
the Ashland star repeated the per-)
formanee a minute later. Medford
tied the score almost Immediate'?-,
and from then on to the end of the
game Medford would (!.- the score
and an Ashlander would put his team
ahead. The locals seemed to be able
to get a basket whenever it was nec
essary and contented themselves with
playing safe most of the game. The'
Medford teem showed a big Improve-1
ment, but, as it always has, lacked
the fight and punch which brings vic
tory. Grlsez shot three more of tho
phenomenally long baskets which at
the first of the year won him the
ford, while always behind their own
team to the very limit, were true
sports.
As was promised in one of the
Vodford papers, there was a serpen
tine after .the game, but Instead of
red and black pennants waving, the
entire Ashland ront'ngent took the
floor and rocked the building with
yells while the Medfordites filed out
silent.
Girls' Game.
Wisconsin, Ohio. Alaska, Maine, Min
nesota, South Dakota, I'tah, Massa
chusetts, West Virginia, Kansas and
the Philippine Ishlands had one each.
Expert Here to
I t, T,.i-- . .i,.... i..i ,j 1 name of being luckv. but after a mn.
guilty to the charge and were fined 1 l,on every pame tnls SPasor has
$10 and costs each. The penalty for j won him the name of the best basket
a repetition of this offence is heavy.
EVflf rAitnl-oiM ' T,le co,irt w arned them not to appear
i again for an infraction of the speed
I law in the hope of leniency.
The French expert arrived from j ..officials claim the Lewis jitney
nan rrancisco mis morning to super-1
intend the erection of the Perozzi-1
Butler memorial fountain in LIthia
park. As do most of the visitors to
the park, the Frenchman waxed en
thusiastic over its'beauties and pro
claimed the chosen site for the foun
tain a fine one.
The foundation of cement which
has been put in will have to be
changed around somewhat. This
comes from what Mr. Perozzi calls
"trying to do something you know
nothing abo,ut."
The fountain is a reproduction in
marble of Antonio Frllli of Florence,
Ita'y, of Gondi's fountain.
The expert does not speak a word
of English and has some difficulty
making himse'f understood. Mr.
Perozzi is quite a linguist, speaking
several languages, and is the only
man on the works able to understand
his expert's directions.
Vista from Drive
Impresses Alter
J. C. Alter, the United States
Weather Bureau man who came from
Portland to take charge of the frost
fighting campaign in the valley this
spring, was a delighted visitor to
Ashland and Lithia park Friday. Mr.
Alter explored every part of the park-
and was especially Impressed with
Glenview Drive, which in his opinion
excels any of the famous drives of
Colorado Springs. "The Impresslve
ness of the wonderful vista of scenic
beauty which lays before one from
the vantage points of the drive, the
grand sweep of the valley and the
somber beauty of the wooded canyon
leading up to the snowy summit
lined out against the wonderful blue
of your southern Oregon sky, have
made an impression upon me which
I will not soon forget," said Mr.
Alter. "I will be a frequent visitor
to your park and never miss an op-
portunlty to motor over the high
drive."
line's operators have been persistent
violators of the speed law, defying
that and other public safeguards in
practically every town on their line(
subjecting human life to danger from
violent collisions all along the Pa
cific Highway, both day and night.
They are said to manifest no respect
for the repeated warnings of officers
or for the parking of their machines
at any of the points touched by their
service.
"Complaints against them are
numerous at Ashland, Central Point
and other places for various Infrac
tions of the lew, as well as ordinary
highway rules and ethics of travel."
When interviewed Saturday, Driv1
er Weiss of the Lewis line stated
that he had never been warned by
the police in any city or on the high
way, or accused of violations, and
that he was at loss to see why both
drivers of the Lewis Hue should be
made into "examp'es" in view of this
fart and in view of the fact that cars
on other lines often passed them
like they were standing still and yet
escaped the clutches of the law.
Drivers of other auto service lines
between here and Medford state that
the Lewis drivers observe rules of the
road as carefplly as any. The fact
that they have never had a serious
accident, even although they often
carry ten or twelve people in their
cars, is he'd by the drivers to be
proof of their care in driving.
shot ever developed in southern Ore
gon. The big surprise of the game
and the series was "Climax" Dels-I
man, who up to Friday night had,
Believes In
Better Stock
R. D. Sanford, residing on Lower
Helman street, and a bieeder of fine
Jerseys, this week shipped one of
the registered Jersey bulls adver
tised in the Tidings to L. S. Irvln at
Banks, Washington county, Oregon.
Mr. Sanford is a firm believer in
bettor breed and better feed. In
his opinion too many dairymen in
Jackson county pay too little atten
: ThetMe(!ford girls again demon1
strated their ability and won the
third game and the series from the
Ash'and girls by a score of fl to 7.
The Ashland girls were -game to the
core and played a wonderfu'ly fasti
passing game, but the heavy Med
ford guards proved too much for
them. Gertrude Moore scored all ofl
Ashland's seven points.
Saturday.
The Ashland girls defeated the
(Continued on Page Five.)
Mutt and Jeff
Drink Lithia Water
Will Direct Valley
Frost Fighting
The fifty people of the Mutt and
Jeff company arrived in Ashland to
day, and most of them hastened to
make a visit to Ashland park, of
which they say they have heard much
from other show people. That little
bit of shortness you met on the street
this afternoon was Jeff. The tall,
1 ladderlike gentleman was Mutt.
iv,.t..w iLiiuiico Hint ii in it in ii i j iu
uiu iu using ueuor s:res and there- mold themselves into likenesses of
fore have a lot of "star boarders" Bud Fisher's famous c;..-tnnn ehnr.-,,--
that reduce the profit on those who ters.
do produce a profit, Many dairy- T The curtain will go up at S:1f, to-
men go on from year to year without 'night on the funniest comedv Ashland
weighing or testing their milk to has bad an onnortunitv to seo In
ascertain which are the profitable ' ni.'lllv (laVR. rinn't m-tbn Hm mlct-iL-n
and which tho unprofitable cows. He ' or staying home tonight. The show
says that he finds that by weeding ; is worth seeing. Loads of pretty
out the herd and putting the same girls, snappy music, a big orchestra,
feed in one-half the number of cows and a thousand laughs are promised.
more profit can be made.
Take Chunk of
Wood from Face
Vining Theatre tonight.
J; R. Croxall has sold his Valley
view ranch of two acres, on Terrace
street, to John S. Dale of Florence,
Ore., who is now In possession.
Croxall came here six years ago from
New Albany, Ind., and developed Val
leyvlew into one of the model orchard
tracts of this section, notably as re
gards cherries and peaches, fine
boxes of which have been shipped
from time to time to all parts of the
country.
S. A. Tarker had a piece of pine
splinter as big as a lead pencil reJ
movod from his cheek recently. Mr.
Parker was nearly killed in an acci
dent at his sawmill twenty miles
from Ashland, a few months ago, one
side of his face being torn terribly by
a piece of timber which struck him in
the face. The wounds healed up, but
Mr. Parker continued to experience
pain in his cheek, and an operation
was performed at a local hospital Sat
urday and a chunk of wood which
the squire proclaimed to be "pure
-4'?SsSs.$sssjS'?
3
JACKSOX COUNTY liFGISTKA- 3
TION. ?
The following is a complete $
? list of registrations, showing S
? tho number registered In tho
? various parties up to week end- 3
S. ing March 4, 1916: $
Republican 1,109
$ Democrat 624 S
S Progressive 13
$ Prohibition 44
$ Socialist .. .' 44
S Miscellaneous 129 S
$ S
$ Total registration 1,963
J. Cecil Alter, of the United States
weather bureau at Portland, is com
ing to the Rogue river valley and
will make his headquarters at Mod
ford to direct tlie frost-fighting work
this sjiring. He gave the following
interview to the Kugene Register
while In that city investigating orch
ard conditions:
"The weather man bits it SO times
out of 100." said Mr. Alter. j
In the Medford district there are
14 sub-weather stations in the valley
according to Mr. Alter.
"We have found that with varying
weather conditions, some parts of a
valley will be affected and others will
not. Hy knowing the general weath
er conditions and by reports from
all parts of the world, Mr. Iteals, in
charge at Portland, ran forecast for
the local district. By knowing what
the conditions are there, whether It
be a clear or cloudy night, a local
forecast can be made as to which
parts of that valley will be touched
with frost. Thus by lighting tho
smudges only where the frost is pre
dicted, a great saving can be made,"
says Alter.
"The weather man does not hit It
always," said Mr. Alter, "but wo
found and know of instances where
we have saved people a great deal of
money.
"For Instance a new branch of
work was undertaken recently under
Mr. Heals' direction. Sheep men all
oved tiie state have lost heavily from
storms or sudden changes following
the shearing or during tho grazing
periods. We found by Inquiry that
they wanted a weather forecast and
now have a system working by which
we can reach every large sheep dis
trict with a forecast that will be liko
ly to cover conditions for tho next
three days.
"The warnings are sent to such
centers as Klamath Falls, Bend,
Burns, Lakeview, and others and
from there sent over private phones,
forestry rangers' phones and by vari
ous methods to the sheep tenders In
the recesses of the mountains. ,
It is eoi'sh-lcnt'v rumorerl that thn
A sh'aad nrne has, hem so d to a
group of Port'and capitalists who will
re-onen it and put a large crew ot
men at work. T!i .Vhlaml mine was
at one t'me rousidi-rel to be one of
the biggest producers In soin hern
Oregon and is con. idered by mining
experts to be one of the best gold
mines in Oregon. It has turned out
hundreds of thousands of dollars of
gold ore and taps a great ledge of
gold-hearing ore wlrch fo'-nter de
ve'npment liare'y scratched. Two
mining engineers were here recently
and carefully vent over (lie property
with K. I). Br'gj's, who recently
;:a''!"d control of 't. The experts are
report"'! to have pronounced tho
mine the best buy in Oregon after
going over the records and personally
, investigating it. The records show
year n'ter ye-r of money. niakitig
, runs and '. rent devclnP'eetit. Thi'co
is on" t't-i'H which slepes into tho
mount.-rii for a ba'l mile ami many
cross tiinne's.
i K. P. IVc.gs is in Pert 'am! nn bus-igc-s
am' confirmation of the sale of
t'-e in i no could not h" obtained, but
all in-li.'atioi's point toward an early
a:;iv:tv on the great irobl nrne.
There is a s'amn mill, hoist and
other n"-essrv machinery at tho
mine, but the machinei'v was dami
ag"d by vamla's recently and exten
sive repa'rs will be necessary. Most
of the biii'dings wi'l also reuu're ex
tensive repair before the mine can
be r"-ooeratcd. Acc-irding to renort,
it is the, Intention .of the Portland
. people to commence active work in
the immcd'ate future,
i The Ashland mine has passed
through the hands of a number of
: ow ners, none of whom were able to
J finance the oneration upon the scale
necessary. Final'y K. P. Brlggs
gained rontrol of it and Interested
the Portland mining men.
, Throughout Southern Oregon a biff
revival of mining Interest Is beln?
I noted, and news of the coming opera
tion of the greatest quartz m'ne of
tl"ni all comes as a most p'easnnt
and ng'eeab'e surprise. It will mean
the employment of n big gang of
miners and highly pair! workmen
who will naturally make Ashland
their base for s'iiplis and recrea
t'on. To the nt'iiing men of Asli'anil
who really know the worth of tho
property the only surprise is that tho
development did not come sooner.
Train Kills Two
Pass Autoists
C. L. Dillon was killed and his son-in-law,
George Barrett, was probab'y
fatally Injured Tuesday when nn au
tomobile In which they wero ridlnt;
was hit by nn "extra" freight train
on the Southern Pacific crossing at
Hugo, Ore., fourteen miles from
Grants Pass.
The train was traveling at only a
moderate speed and repented warn
ings were blown, but Mr. Barrett ap
parently became excited and tried to
dear the crossing ahead of tho train.
The conductor of the train was W.
10. Kurtz and the engineer J. V. Halo,
both of Grants Pass. Mr. Dillon was
a farmer living at Hugo, coming to
Josephine county from Kansas threo
years ago. He was about (15 years
old. Mr. r.arrett was a druggist nnt
came for his health threo weeks ago
from Fort Rupert, Idaho, lie was
35 years old. Both men are married
and leave families. Mr. Barrett was
being treated by a. special'st for a
nervous affection, and to the stralne.I
condition of his nerves is attributed!
the accident.
"The Only Girl"
Motors Through Park
, Ground has been broken for a new
$600,000 auditorium at Portland.
timber" was taken out. Several spiin- The male registration is about
ters had been taken out previous to $ twice that of the ladles, except
finding the big one, but neither the3 the prohibitonlsts, who number
"Squire" nor the doctor suspected
that he was harboring a young two-by-four
In his face.
S 24 ladies and 20 men.
A cougar hide, ono of tho largest
every killed in southern Oregon, was
presented to the county clerk Mon
day for bounty, $10 from the county
and $15 from the state. The varmint
measured ten feet six inches from tip
of tali to tip of nose. It was killed
by Mrs. Irene NrIch, nee Plotner, of
Skookum Prairie, and In life was a
ferocious beast, preying ' upon stock
in the Union creek district for
months.
For long mileage, U. S. tires. It
Miss Kdna Munsey, star of "Tha
Only Girl" musical comedy which
played at Medford Friday, together
with her mother and Mr. and Mrs.
Herndoti, the manager of the show,
and his wife, were met at the train
Friday evening at Ashland by A. S.
Ames and taken up through Ashland
park and over the highway to Med
ford. The train was late and Miss
Munsey was greatly disappointed la
getting but a few minutes In Ashland
park, which she enthuslaastlca ly
proclaimed to be "Just adorable."
The ride over the highway and
glimpses of orchard work was great
ly enjoyed by the party.
