HOME EDITION
fv
V
TODAY'S PRICES
J' .n l.nnk note (state bllli) tf '
VI. ,.,, is, 44 Nsilenales bl'ls 1
-- .r,n . urren.y SH-fHsr silver
M i ! A. Harmon quot tons ''r "
f I : l:v mi(i28 TiO "trnUm lower
LI ' k tr.inn Stock lower.
LATEST NEWS BY ASSOCIATED
Appointment Of Gen. Per
shing To Lead In Mexico
Announced by Funslon.
PREPARATIONS
BEING RUSHED
No Movement Of Troops
Into Mexico Is Expected
Today, Says Funslon.
Coi.VMBUS. N. 1L. Mtrch IS. Brig.
Jen. John J. Pershing, who Is to
command the expeditionary force
into Mexico In person will establish
1 s liase of operations at Columbus, ac-
i ding to Information received at
" ny headquarters today. It was ex
ifi ted he would be here today to take
' rmnand.
I lent. Col. D. C. Cabell, of the 10th
n ilry who. It Is expected, will be as-
irned to duty as adjutant general of
the forces, arrived today f rom. DojleJ L
i o )Kan preparation ior me arrival
of iitn Pershing
Vuilnings are being erected for use
as i-taff headquarters.
Troop Concentrated.
ctual concentration of the United
M ites troops for the punitive expedi
tion Into Mexico, which has for its ob
3 1 1 the capture of Francisco Villa, the
outlawed Mexican insurgent, was begun
1 r Sunday.
From the heavv troop movement to
Columbus It would seem, according to
i ffn es on station here, that this point
is to be made the base of operations.
and that the principal column will enter
.ihm(0 Trom nere The lorce or 4ien.
1 it lo B rtani. commanding the Car
ta ri7i garrison, at Palomas. on the
M x.can side of the border south of
In re was increased today by the arrival
o' 800 men. bringing his forces to a to
i il of 2000 However, apparently, no
tii ej( irations were being made to take
u, the pursuit Of Villa
Two hundred and fifty men of the
fourth field artillery arrived Sunday
ni,-bt fiom Fort Bliss, while two squad
i on nf the 12th cavalry from Fort Rob-
insiin. Neb, are expected later All save
the cavalry from Fort Robinson wnicn
is to go on station here are to be avail
able for expeditionary purposes. In
formation received at army headquar
ti r here also Indicates that Lieut. Col
I . c Cabell, of the 10th cavalry, will
ime toilav from Douglas. Ariz., pre-
Muin iMy to act as adjdtant for the force
To leave Columbus
It was reported, too. that all avail
able forces of the seventh cavalry, 400
in.n. are in the neia in me aiarau
Uueo district, between Nogales and
1(4 upon. In southern Arizona.
12 Mountnln films Arrive.
The battery of mountain artillery
from Fort Bliss is equipped with 12
mountain guns, especially designed for
ih ib iracter of fighting which the pu
i itlve expedition is expected to wage
Thi irons are transported on mules and
a., orr j-an led by an ammunition train
urich would enable them to operate
with cavalrv in the field Two troops of
ti . 13th cavalry. F and IT. which have
h. . n on patrol duty at Hermann, 20
m les west of here, also have returned
to i amp preparator to the dispatching
f tic expedition Troop G, which had
T pin tli me duty at border gate, two and
a naif miles south, alf-o was returned,
l.tlng replaced by a company of ln
f it tiy
Columbus Is Cnln..
In strlkme contr ist to the excitement
rT I he Inst few i.iv preparation for the
.1. o.trture of tin npi dition progressed
toliv witn regularity and order The
t..v,n itself, has s. ttl. d down, and with
the exuption of th. increased number
o troop tral'is md the constant passing
rf off iters in and out of the headquar
irsofCol HeibertJ Slocum, the com
mandant, little evident- remains of the
laid of M. xlan ban "s. which last
Thur" ' .i brou-ht .I'.ih to several
Ameru n civili.tns and I'nited States
soldi!! Both officers and men express
irratification tint a. tion l to follow
the months of inactivity, which. In the
,, -In? marked their detail to border
l.Wneilllliin Is Uelajrd.
It Is not expected here that the expe
dition tc enter Mexico, at least from
,i,l, poi'.t. will be started for several
.,is hniif of the poor railroad fa
, i ,, ,i v, with ninth to concentrate the
troops
Villa Flees Snnth.
Jd, aiiwl.tW. Ttamisco Villa with but
a small bodv oi men, it Is reported here,
s fle mg fat Hie, fi oni the United
stales border it iilv in! into tht fast
ness of the mom tains which parallel
the boril'rs I'hiluihui and Sonora
tow inl tiuerriio. w lu i c his davs as an
outltw Im nan anil w hi i to almost cv ery
peon i'ant ho ill.i is a h. ro Army
men hiie rioi-it out that ont e back in
the p ountains iirmn? his friends the
pursuit if Villa is apt to resemble a
l nttnued n page 2. column 4 )
Now Is the
,
J
nJliiniMMrlflfrJ iiiiiHftL irTTJ
PRESS.
6INGL3 COPY FIVE
RAID OVER
lilllM
CONFEREE IIS
PER
Message Saying President Had Consented for Mexican
Troops to Cross Border Is Eeceived While (jjenerals
Are in Conference and -a Situation Which Was
Becoming Tense Was Quickly Relieved.
W
a point had been reached
a conference between Gen.
John J. Pershing and Gen.
Gabriel Gavira at the Mexican consu
late Monday morning at 10:30 o'clock,
when it seemed th&t no progress could
be made in any decisive direction a
telegram vas brought to Gen. Pershing
from Washington, D. C, stating that
president Wilson had acceeded to
the request of -.e carranza gov
ernment that the Constitutional
troops be permitted to pursue bandits
from Mexico into the United States,
should occasion arise. This clarified
the situation, which had become tense,
and the conference broke up.
"I have nothing to say, as there Is
nothing I can say." said G n Pershing, i
The telegram came at a crucial mo
ment. I have had a very satisfactory
conference with Gen. Gavira. It was
wholly a matter of antlcfnation."
Meet In Consul's Office.
Gen Pershing arrived at the consu
late, unaccompanied, at 1o o'clock Ten
minutes later, Gen Gavira arrived in
an automobile from .Juarez. .n , om
panied by several aides and mayor
ft
IS JT MONTEREY PRESIDIO
BURN HEftDDOAflTERS BRIER
Investigation is Begun Immediately; Many Army Rec
ords Are Destroyed While Firemen, Handicapped by
Lack of Water, Try to Put Out the Flamels; The
Troops Had Left Before Fire was Discovered.
MONTERET. Calif., March 13 The
headquarters building of the
Monterey Presidio was totally
destroyed by fire early this morning,
about six hours after being vacated
by troops of the First cavalry w ho loft
for the Mexican border. Firemen at
tempted to extinguish the flames but
the water upply had been shut off
at the source.
InTCKllKntlort Is Made.
An Investigation was started Im
mediately by caretakers left in charge.
Monterey was the Spanish and Mexican
capital of California, described by mil
itary authorities, as a sort of canton
ment with old2 wooden barracks suf
ficient to accommodate a regiment.
These were of the tv pe common, at the
Presidio of San Francisco, where sev
eral pt reons. including the wife and
three daughters of Brig. Gen. John J.
Pershing, were burned to death.
Monetary Loss Small,
The monetary loss. It was said, is
small. The blaze itself was compar
atively brief. The leaping flames out
lined the grass covered parapets of
the old earthworks thrown up by an
American landing partv In 1816, and
even lighted the adobe house where, a
little later. Gen. W. T. Sherman, then
a lieutenant, lived, and which was the
American consulate
Many Records Destroyed.
The headquarters' safe, with ths
contents of the post office, were saved,
all other records and papers were
R. S, CATTLEMAN
MSY BE KHNAPED
Report at Alpine Says
American Being Held by
Villistas in Mexico.
A cattleman from the American side
Is reported to be a prisoner of bandits
on the Mexican side of the line opposite
Alpine, Texas, and friends of Juan
Bilbao, who has been In that country,
are much worried about his safet.v.
A messenger reached El Paso Sun
day night from Alpine with the news
that the bandits, tailing themselves
Villistats, were holding an Ameiuan
cattleman for ransom of $1500, which
he stated, was being sent from' Alpine
into the Terlingua country where tho
man is supposed to bo held
H M Maple and Harry Walz, of the
cattle brokerage firm of Maple &
Walz. are at Alpine looking aftr a
cattle shipment in which Bilbao Is in-
u inuiimril on pnge ... Col. I.)
Time To Prove that
EL
CENTS.
M. M. Prieto After an exchange of
greetings, all persons rei ired from the
office of consul Garcia, with the ex
ception of the consul and the two
generals. The audlem e hHll was
cleared of all persons waiting for
interviews and conferet ces. and the
persons waiting were transferred to a
rear room, so that the cor ference might
be In absolute secrecy.
I'pon the conclusion cf the confer
ence at 10-30 o'clock, the two generals,
the Juarez mayor and -onsul Garcia
came down the stairwi y and stood
chatting upon the front porch. Then
Gen. Pershing entered lis automobile
and was driven to town
No intimation Is given f the confer
ence save that It had mu:h to do with
the attitude of Gen. Gi.vira and his
officers. If American troo s began their
campaign against Villa tl rough Juarez.
The conference was held through con
sul Garcia as Interpreter.
Consul Garcia, after the conference
said "I feel much relieved, for I am
much disheartened when the welfare
of mv country is at stakje."
Gen Gav ria express J pleasure at
having conferred with Gen. PershinS
and was satisfied with the outcome.
destroyed. Major James II. Harboard,
In charge of the post, reft sed to discuss
the origin of the fire until he had
made his own Investigate n.
Soldiers Summon Aid.
Much weight was glvei by military
authorities, it became kaown, to the
fact that the fire star :ed in head
quarters building. Prob ibly the first
intimation was received in telephone
headquarters at Monter y where the
switchboard lamps conne ting the army
post began to wink. The operators,
however, were unable to "reach" the
post, and said later thalt the signals
must have been caused b r the burning
out of the post switch! oard. A few
minutes later two soldi sr caretakers
burst into the Monterey fire depart
ment calling for help.
hlx Tronpi Go To llnilglii.
Six troops of the First cavalry, sta
tioned here, left shortly ifter oclock
Sundnv night for Douglai, Ariz.
Operator Is IVcnrly t v erenow.
Private I) F. Saylor. lost telephone
operator, awoke at 3 a. ri. and saw no
fire but 40 minutes later he rushed
from the building chokirg It was 15
minutes. It was said, aftt r the firemen
responded before water entered tho
house. ....,
FYtv Troops At Post,
In the burned building, almost a
total loss, were located the postoffice,
telegraph office, print slop and head
ouarters. Tho only trot ps remaining
here are tho ambulanc corps,
hospital and cooks' schojil
field
OHIEB PART
AR1S E1BAP
United States Shuts Off
Shipments to Mexico
From Statbs.
San Francisco, March 13 n
bargo on shipments of rar munitions
from this port to Mexican points was
declared today by John 3 Davis, col
lector of the port, in ac :ordance with
instructions from Washington signed
bv W P- Malburn, asslslant secretary
of the treasury.
Affects Only Western I'nrls.
Washington, I C, Mi rch 13. The
arms em argo orders aflect only San
Francisco, Nogales anil Loi Angeles, the
gateways to C'hirAiahua, Sonora and
I ower California No ger eral emhirgo
on arms to Mexico has lt-en oroi red.
The partial embargo is td prevent mu
nitions reaching Villa.
A CONFER;
KAPPr ENDING
PASO. TEXAS. MONDAY EVENING. MARCH 13. 1916.
LINE AT LANARK
MEIIUI5UE
OTIHED IT
HELMS
Two Parlies Of Americans
Forced to Abandcn Aulas
And Flee For Lives.
12 MEXICANS IN
ATTACKING BAND
Americans Exchange Shots
With the Mexicans and
Mae Their Escape.
A'
RMED Mexicans, supposed to be
Villistas, held up T. B. Cunning
ham, secret service agent for the
El Paso & Southwestern, with another
American, and II. P. Hansen and O. L,
Hartley, traveling In two autos, east
from Columbus, near Lanark, N. M
about dusk Sunday night
The Americans were forced to ahan-
on tneir macmnes, but succeeded in
getting away and reached El Paso
about 11" p. m., on a Southwestern
train.
Mr. Cunningham, In hfs new Frank-llRv-wft
retOTTrtiiftsfium Cotmrrbngina
was traveling fast In an effort to reach
El Paso before dark. Mr. Hansen and
Mr. Hartley and another American, had
been to Deming and had returned by
way of Columbus.
Mexlcnnn Appear In Rond.
Mr. Hansen's party, traveling In a
Studebaker, nad passed Mr. Cunning
ham on the road, when a mounted
Mexican crossed In front of the ma
chine. Mr. Hansen speeded up his ma
chine, and had proceeded a little further
when 11 or 12 Mexicans suddenly rose
up from a little knoll directly in front
of the machine.
Try to Kscnpe.
Ivealizlng that they were being sur
rounded. Mr. Hansen reversed the en
gine and backed a short distance, then
turned his machine. Mr. Cunningham,
shortly behind the first party, also
turned, and the two parties rushed
hack to Lanark, where they aban
doned their machines, and ran across
to the Southwestern railroad tracks.
There they took refuge behind a pile
of ties and waited until the train came.
Shots Are Kxchnnged.
The Mexicans, It is stated, followed
the machines, but In the dusk lost sight
of the men. and the Americans reached
the railroad without encountering their
pursuers. Tho El Pasoans were armed,
and several shots were exchanged with
the Mexicans.
It was not known Monday morning
whether the machines were seized by
the Mexicans. Mr. Hansen and Mr.
Hartley left at 6 30 for I.anark in an
effort to locate the machines.
20 CARS OF EQUIPMENT
ARE SHIPPED TO BORDER
Philadelphia. Pa., March 13. Twenty
carloads of clothing and equipment to
supply the needs of 10.000 United
States soldiers in a camptign In Mex
ico were shipped late Sunday night
from the Schuvlkill arsenal here to
the Mexican border.
LAST OF 11TH CAVALRY
LEAVES FORT OGLETHORPE
Chattanooga, Tenn., March 13. The
last of the seven trains carrying the
Uth cavalry to the Mexican border,
left Fort Oglethorpe this morning. The
train carried ten wagons, the machine
guns and tho machine gun troop.
12th CAVALIIY TTIOOPS
AHK MOVING SOUTH
Denver. Colo.. March 13. Troops E
and H, 12th United States cavalry, ar
rived today, from Cheyenne en route
for the Mexican border. At railroad
headquarters, it was said tho troops
would depart south at once.
O you write
like this?
Then you've a coarse and vulgar na-tu-e
In speech and dress. De Witt B.
Lucas, the writing expert, says so, and
points out why in next Week-End Her
ald. Head his Intensely interesing ar
tittes on graphology, and send him
tome of your own or your friend's
writing, and let him read it for you.
yl&CaZAjP
Mexican Friendship Is More Than Oratory
DELIVERED
GERIN EBSSES
IffiKJUB
Masses of Men, Trying to
Climb to Fort Vaux, Shot
Into Limp Heaps.
Paris, France. March 13. There was
no infantry fighting Sunday night In
the region to the north of Verdun, ac
cording to the announcement on the
progress of hostilities made by the
French war office this afternoon.
There has been, however, a continu
ance of the artillery activity along all
this front. The German losses In the
fighting around Fort Vaux last Friday
and Saturday surpass all previous rec
ords in this war, according to officers
who have returned from Verdun. When
the smoke and dust cleared, nothing (
was to be seen but heaps of bodies,
German Pyramids Collapse.
The spur on which the fort Is situ
ated is almost perpendicular In places.
The German lines were forced to halt,
but many Bavarian reservists climbed
upon one another's shoulders and strug
gled up the slope, clinging to anglaa of
rock and grasping tufts of grass. Again
and again these human pyramids col
lapsed into shapeless gray masses. At
the lowest estimate the attackers lost
two-thirds of their effectives.
Desperate Fighting nt Village.
The fighting was extremely desper
ate when regiments from the 15?h and
18th German army corps attacked the
village or vaux on tTiday. xne uer-
mans
FrencJf&ont trehesf but althouS
r outnumbered the-defenders alxTo
the F
thev outnumbered the "defenders six
one. It took four distinct assaults before
the first column of Germans won the
shelter of a small group of houses be
yond the church of Vaux. They then
organized an assault upon the church.
Five times the north Prussian regi
ments rushed to attack the church, but
every time they left the shelter of tho
ruined houses they were beaten back.
In the meantime, in their rear, heavy
fire was kept up ny the French 76's
and 210's, so that it was Impossible for
munitions and reinforcements to be
brought up for their benefit, and the
fight died down on Friday night from
sheer exhaustion.
SAYS GREAT BRITAIN DREW
PARTUGAL INTO THE WAR
Washington. D. C. March 13. Portu
gal entered the war, the Portuguese le
gation announced today, because Great
Britain requested her to do so. In ful
fillment of treaty obligations dating
hack to 13T3
In a statement outlining Portugal's
point. Issued by viscount De Alte, the
Portuguese minister, he says:
Portugal is drawn Into the war as
a result of her long standing alliance
with England, and alliance that has
withstood unbroken the strain of S00
ears.
"The first treaty of alliance between
the two countries was concluded June
16,1373, by Ferdinand of Portugal
and F.dward HI., of England Subse
quent treaties have affirmed the alli
ance and defined Its scope."
FRENCH AND GERMAN GUNS
BOOM ALONG WEST FRONT
Berlin, Germany, March 13. The text
of today's statement by German army
headquarters follows
"The weather has been favorable for
observation purposes and there has been
very lively artillery activity on both
sides over a great part of the front.
The activity also increased on both
sides of the Meuse and as far as the
Moselle.
"Apart from patrol fighting on the
Romme and In the failure of a minor
French attack In Le Pretre forest there
were no events.
"Three enemy airplanes were de
stroyed In the Champagne and one In
the Meuse region."
BRAZILIANS NOT NEUTRAL;
ADMIT FAVORING ALLIES
Itlo Janeiro, Brazil. March 13
Biazillans are now rather openly in
svmpathy w-lth the entente allies, more
especially since Germany has declared
war on Portniral. Saturday evening
there was an enthusiastic demonstra-
tinn In tliA ati-oAta nf the capital.
Tho Epocha, commenting on the
governmental decree of neutrality,
savs:
"We are not neutral. We entertain
the most ardent wish for the victory
of Portugal and the allies, and In order
that they may become a reality the
majority of Brazilians will do all that
they are able, both from a material
and a moral point of view."
BRITISH LOSE 5000 IN
MESOPOTAMIA BATTLE, REPORT
Berlin, Germany, March 13. (By
wireless to Sayville, I I.) The losses
of the British forces In Mesopotomla in
the recent battle near Felahie are es
timated by the Turkish war office as
at least 5000.
AMmttCAaS IN CVSUU.TY LIST.
Ottawa, Ont., March 13 William T.
Ilowland, of Minneapolis, Minn., was re
ported wounded and Thomas Wilkinson
of Sheridan, Wyo , was listed as seri
ously ill In the Overseas casualties
made here by the militia department
I
ANYWHERE 80 CENTS A MONTH.
Mexican Forces Are to Be Allowed to Enter the United
States in Pursuit of Villa Bandits Whenever Need
ed; All Preparations for Entry of American
Army Rushed; Senators Push Con
sideration of the Army Bills.
ASHINGTON. D. C. March 13. The United States this afternoon
accepted Gen. Carranza's proposal for a reciprocal arrangement by
which either his troops or American troops may pursue bandits on either
side of the border. A note1 of acceptance was sent to Gen. Carranza at
Queretaro.
f 03v PeUveen p&sident Wilson and scretary of state Lansing.
I Ttn?XfZ (Iff srrT7PT AMCP
The acceptance was understood to be made on the ground that Carranza
troops may cross into American territory in pursuit of bandits at any time that
American forces are not present m sufficient numbers. It was pointed out
that the inability of the Carranza troops to handle the situatioh in northern
Mexico is the sole ground for entry of American soldiers.
Officials expressed the view today that a great deal of unnecessary
pessimism exists as to Gen. Carranza's altitude. As to the attitude of the
Mexican people, themselves, however, there is some concern.
CARRANZA PLACATES HIS PEOPLE.
Army officials who studied the Carranza manifesto, issued Sunday from
Mexico City, were convinced that it was not intended as a communication to
the United States in any sense. The head of the de facto government, they
pointed out, was forced to satisfy conflicting elements among his own adherents.
NOTE IS MADE PUBLIC.
Late today secretary of state Lansing announced that the United States
had reached an agreement with Gen- Carranza and had placed its note of
acceptance and the supplementary statement explaining its purpose in the hands
of Eliseo Arredondo, Gen. Carranza's ambassador here.
The note was made public later in the day, said Lansing. The accom
panying statement outlined fully the purposes of the United States in going in
pursuit of the bandit Villa.
U. S. AVOIDS INTERVENTION.
Secretary Lansing issued this statement:
"In order to remove any misapprehension that may exist either in lha
United States or in Mexico, the president has authorized me to give in his name
the public assurance that the military operations now in contemplation by this
government will be scrupulously confined to the object already announced, and
that in no circumstances will they be suffered to infringe in any degree upon
the sovereignty of Mexico or develop into intervention of any kind in the in
ternal affairs of our sister republic On the contrary, what is now being done
is deliberately intended to preclude the possibility of intervention."
So Opposition to Reciprocal PInn.
Senators Stone and Saulsbury, of the
foreign relations committee discussed
the Mexican situation with president
Wilson today and learned that the
president believes he can make a re
ciprocal arrangement for pursuit of
bandits on either side of the boundary
without the consent of the senate.
The president has under considera
tion one proposal from a member of the
cabinet that a zone 40 miles wide be
established along the border between
Mexico and the United States In which
authorities of both nations would have
the right to pursue outlaws
It was said today no objection Is
likely in the senate If the president
makes a temporary arrangement with
Gen. Carranza.
..... ., i
i Immediately upon their receipt.
etpl. ine
secretary said he believed the public
was entitled to know promptly wnm
waa being done by the government to
avenge the Columbus massacre and he
authorized the instalatlon of special
equipment for the press in order tnat
tho word might be flashed over the
country when It came.
Four Brglmenls Coming To Border.
There was no assurance, however,
that Gen. Funston would advise the
department before his men were well
Herald Leads
Editor EI Paso Herald:
I enclose cheek for renewal of my
stockmen and for general news of the
of the whole world, 1 think the El
To lveep nwiic miornini. j Teixt of Tr S Iteoly
Secretary of war Baker promised, The teTt ff ,ne "rep, to Gen. Car
that messages from Gen. Funston. an- ra ,,,, proposal, sent to American
nouncing the expeditionary fprfe" cnscl Sllllman follows
were on their way would be published , .The government of the United States
WEATHER TOKECAST
Kl Vano nnd IV t Texan, fair and cool
r; (ff Mexico, fnlr; Arizona, fair and
cooler.
FOURTEEN PAGES TODAY.
on tho march south 'While Gen.
Funston was assembling his expedition
"somewhere on the border." three regi
ments of cavalry and one of Infantry
were moving to his support today from
widely scattered points In the r"nitea
States. The cavalrv was ordered out
at his request Saturday night soma
from the Pacific coast, some from the
middle west, and some from the south.
Probalily 50OO to 60OO in Kxpedltlon.
While strictest secrecy was main
tained by the war department as to tho
force Gen Funston has designated to
pursue Villa, information from the
border pointed toward a force of cav
alry, mountain artillery and engineers,
which would total between 5000 and
6000 men.
has receive,! the imirtnn nnt. of
i senor Acuna and h is read with satis-
dctlrni his suggestion for reciprocal
privileges to the American and Mexi
can authorities in t ic pursuit and art
prehension of outlaws who infst their
respective teiritnnts lying along the
International boundary and who are
a constant menace to the lives and
property of residents of that region.
Permission Is Granted.
The government of the T'nited
(Continued en pane S. Col. S
Them All
RoswcU. X. M., March 7, 1916.
subscription for -ix montb.9. For the
Southwest ami Mimco and the news
Paso Herald IcuU them all.
o II Hickman.
.
