UNIVERSITY MISSOURIAN
EIGHTH YEAR
COLUMBIA, MISSOURI, MONDAY, MARCH 13, 1916
SIX PAGES.
NUMBER 165
W. C. T. U. MORKER HERE
I
Mrs. 1J. jr. Schachner ajs Patriotism,
in l. S Has Degenerated.
In place of the regular sermon at
the First Christian Church Sunday
"caning. Mrs. Ross Hajs Schachner
. . 'of St. Louis, formerly general nation
Cliristian College Authorities al secretary of the Young People's
Object to Serenade and I Braneh of the w-c-T- u- made a taIk
Call Police.
.on temperance. Her subject was
"True Patriotism."
"If there eer was any true and
DELUGE FROM GIRLS wortl-ne Patriotism, it" has degen-
I erated," she said. "Patriotism is now
a menace rather than a virtue. That
thing which should serve as cloak for
the best in men is used to further the
selfish interests of the unscrupulous.
It is an obstacle to civilization, close
ly akin to savagery.
"The new partriotism stands for
honor, justice and freedom. I wish
the oung people were duly impress
ed with the honor of living gloriously,
as w ell as J.v ing glouriously, for their
country. There never was a time in
the history of America when we need
ed patriots more than we do today.
"The Kaiser warned his soldiers to
keep out of beer gardens. When Rus
sia, that greatest of all nations in
population and resources, went on the
'water wagon' it gave the greatest
lesson of the value of prohibitory law
to the world that it has ever receiv
ed." Statistics were given to show Rus
sia's Increase in efficiency since the
adoption of prohibition and to show
the evil effects of alcohol on the hu-
Shannon I lawkins and L. R.
Rice Pay Fines for
Tresspassing.
Following the announcement that
some of the oung ladies of Christian
College had been "campused" numer
ous bands of serenaders visited the
college campus last night and sang
songs of consolation. It was very ac
ceptable for a while, but the repeti
tion became tiresome and a party of
late arrivals became positively bore
some. They were asked to leave.
Their departure was even demanded
by the authorities of the college. The
serenaders were persistent.
Finallv an ultimatum was delivered
in a threat to call the police. Xor did
this deter the unwelcome Romeos.
While waiting for the officers to ar
rive, the girls opened their windows
and deluged the offenders with
streams of water. Two shots were
4mA Vi o wntAJiTMin in? enmA tf tlin i
,, ,, imans.vstem. Mrs. Schachner answer-
Tnpn ocrnnen VV npn trio Tinlipn nr- i
. , , .... .... ed many of the stock arguments
against prohibition.
Pleading for perparedness, she said.
"Our greatest enemies are within.
IN AND OUT OP TOWN
Former M.U. Publisher Tells
of Labor Scarcity He Finds
in Canada.
DUE TO ENLISTMENT
rired a number of the bojs had disap- ,
peared but Shannon Hawkins and I..1
R Rice, who live and work here, were
arrested and taken to the police head
quarters They pleaded guilty to tres
passing and were fined 1 and costs
in the police court this morning.
Policeman Mitchell, who is on night
duty, when asked what times the in
cident occurred, said that he was
asleep when the call came and could
not guess within five hours of the
time.
not without."
COMMlDAT 31 Y MIT COME
3reirnn .situation Mav Call Lieuten
ant King Rack to Service.
There is a possibility that Lieuten
ant Joseph C. King, the newly ap
pointed commandant for the Univer
sity Cadet Corps, will not arrive on
the expected date. President A. Ross
liritST 1ULL PERFORM Hill received word last week that
Lieutenant King would arrive March
IS, but the recent Mexican situation
may change the new commandant's
TES, MR.
Comedian Undeterred br Sore Throat,
Ulcerated Tooth and a fold.
Although Sam Hurst, whose fame as ' P,ans-
a comedian is more than local, is suf
fering from several slight ailments,
the entertainment at Christian Col
lege, in which he is billed to appear
Mr King, before his appointment as
commandant here, was stationed in lof the work
Arizona He lias been dismissed from
active service with the Fifth Cavalry
tonight, will he riven ns nreviotislv to take his new position Since the
announced Mr. Hurst will perform j revived Mexican trouble, it was re
in spite of a sore throit. a cold on the I Prted in tlle daiI' papers that the
luncs and an ulcerated tooth. HejFlftn Cavalry had been sent across
savs that it will be impossible for him the border in pursuit of Villa,
to speak above a whisper, but' H- B- Gibson, acting commandant,
promises to nrove to the world that he Baid loda.v tnat !ie believed Lieutenant
possesses rare ability as a pantomime KinS oud make an effort to get
art jet back into the regular sprvice. If this
In addition to Mr. Hurst there areis the case, he said, the date of his
seventy-nine others who will take' arrival here is uncertain,
part in the entertainment. These in- i
elude forty of the voting ladles of E 1WLL1AMS HE IBS TIGERS
Christian College, twenty-nine Co-(1nI- ., .,,, mntnin? Flerted .-.(
Half Million Under Arms
by Summer, He Says Will
Import Harvesters.
With as much hustle as he displav
ed as a student in the School of Jour
nalism and later as University pub
lisher, Hugh J. MacKay hustled into
Columbia vesterday. He will leave
tomorrow. He is on his way from
Oklahoma to Regina, Saskatchewan,
Canada, where he is the owner and
publisher of the Evening Province.
Managing a newspaper in a land
where the thermometer hovered
around -10 below zero most of the
winter and where the interest of
most of the country is centered in re
cruiting men for the European armies
of the Allies, has brought many ex
periences to the former University
of Missouri man. Just now, of course,
the war is affecting the workings
his publishing plant. The scarcity of
men is felt in every trade and pro
fession. From the highest to the low
est, officials and tradesmen are enlist
ing. This lack of men is the only
evidence of the war in Canada at the
present time, according to Mr. Mac
Kav. Labor is at a Premium.
Last week a man came to Regina
from the "States" and inserted a want
ad in the Evening Province asking for
work as a farmhand. As soon as the
paper had reached the rural districts,
long distance calls, letters and per
sonal calls came in by wholesale.
Labor is so scarce that arrangements
are being made to import men from
the United States
"There is no philosophizing about
the war In Canada." says Mr. Mac
Kay. "When a man Is building a
house he is takertfup with thy details
The finished work is not
COMMUTE OP 1000
ON CENTENNIAL FETE
Completion of Missouri's 100
Years of Statehood Will
be Celebrated.
IN EVERY COUNTY
lumbians and fifteen University men.
the last chosen from a host of appli
cants. The management announces a spe
cial feature of four choruses. "The
Pine That Grows Where the Hinkson
Flows." is full of local color. It is
arranged to the tune of "When
Dreams Come True," and thMdent!ty
o: the author is a secret. A Dutch
chorus will sing "When It Is Tulip
Time in Holland " "I Want to Co to
Tokio' will be sung by a chorus of
Japanese maidens. "We'll Toddle All
Over Town." is another late song hit
that is on the program
The performance will begin at S
o'clock.
WILSON A MFSSEGER OF GOO
Reeled to Quell the flash of Arms
Relieves Rev. Tounir.
Divine selection has placed Wood
row Wilson. President of the United
States in charge of the present crisis
in American affairs, aeclared the Rev
T W Young, pastor of the First Bap
Dinner Given bj Van Gent.
Fred Williams of Kansas City, a
junior in the School of Journalism,
was elected captain oi the Tiger bas
ketball team last night at a dinner
given tile team by Coach C. E. Van
Gent at the home of C. L. Brewer.
Short talks were made by Mr. Brewer,
Mr. Van Gent and J. A. Wear, this
year's captain.
Williams is a former star of West
port High School, Kansas City. He
has plajed two jears at center on the
Tiger team and is regarded as one of
the best scorers. He is a good jump
er, an excellent shot at the basket and
one of the fastest men in the Valley
on the dribble.
The new captain is 20 jears old. Be
sides being a basketball plaer, Wil
liams was on the track team last
year and Is also a good tennis player.
C. G. ROSS GOI.G TO AUSTRU.il
considered. It is the same wav with
the Canadians and the English. The
final outcome of the European war is
not questioned. It is considered only
a matter of time until the Allies are
victorious.
Army I Growing F.isf.
"Canada will have ."00.000 men
under arms by summer. The most
prominent men in the dominion are
enlisting A few davs ago the deputy
minister of agriculture joined the
colors, and in our own citv of Regina
many of the leading business men
have enlisted."
Mr MacKay received word two
davs ago that two of his brothers, who
live In Calgary, had enlisted. He
said he was not certain that he would
ever join, but the pressure was strong
upon all ablebodied Canadian citi
zens. Many men from the United
States are enlisting in Canadian regi
ments Nine answered the call of the
recruiting officer at Regina in one
day recently.
The Canadian publisher was grad
uated from the School of Journalism
in 1013. C. M. Elliott, who was
graduated from the school in 1914, is
advertising manager of the Evening
Province. Two former students of the
School of Journalism are members of
th staff. They are John Level, news
editor, and John A. Murray, a reporter.
Plans by Five Representatives
of State Historical
Society.
A committee of 1,000 persons will
be named to arrange for the celebra
tion of the one hundredth anniversary
of the admission of Missouri to the
Union. The selection is to be made
by a committee of five of the State
Historical Society in about two
months.
This committee of five, which met
in St. Louis vesterday, is composed
of R. M. White, Mexico, president of
the State Historical Society and
chairman of the committee; F .C.
Shoemaker, secretary of the State His
torical Society and secretary of the
committee; Walter B. Stevens, secre
tary of the City Plan Commission of
St. Louis; Colonel J. L. Torrej of
Fruitville; Purd B. Wright, librarian
of the Kansas City Public Library;
Dean Walter Williams of the School
oi journalism, nr. isiuor Loeb, a
member of the State Historical So
ciety, was also present.
The committee of 1,000 is to con
sist of five representatives from each
of the 114 counties and from the
city of St Louis, and others from the
state at large. The patriotic societies
and educational institutions will be
represented m those named at large.
The committee will hold its first meet
ing in Kansas City next fall to ar
range for the celebration.
mil
il.ir
THE NEITHER
'or folliml.ii .in,! Vldnltv. rn., ill..
MiiiHWIiit ciilil.r tonl.-ht ind lm.
Iirolnliu r-iln T. ....... ,
11 .l,.- -I... . ..""." "'"""""
T ' ,:. "- .""- '"""IK point.
lor Missouri. L r. -. tt li-.l u,d colder
iWiitluT tonfslit mil Tufsiin. i.rolul.lv
niu s.,tli. riln nr sunn n,.rtli portion.
VVruthrr runiliins.
l.siept in the -otitlieistirn sutis. whore
tiiiii.ir.miri- .in- r.ithir low for the time
f we-itlxr prev-iikd vtshnlir .ind i"on
tlinits tlii mnriilnj.- In tilt. jrreittr iurt
of the tountrj. lmt will np,li, th,n-e
luck to a more winter like tvi- ilurini:
the next thlrtv-slt hours onln to .in
i." 'V',"1 I,rsiirr to the fir north.
I reciplutioii of the iut 24 hours was
i ltti nil ami unimportant.
Zero conditions hue n treated to the
far north, anil the freezing line of ;r-li-Tiis
is not firthir south tlim North
1 rri low i
In ColumtiH the wemhir will heconie
miMttieil mil -DiiHwhiti lohler ilurin
the next Set hours, .erlii.s with riin
Loral lluta.
The highest ti mptriture In Colnmlil i
vestcnl-ij wis TO nnil the lowest last ni.-ht
wis 4": iiniipit ition. : relitive hu
mlilitj L" p. m yi stenliv 37 wr ci lit. A
vi ir .iiro jisti nliv the hlchtst ttmpi niture
wis 41 and the lowest .'3; precinlt ition.
The Almanao.
Mm riss todn, 1, si a. m. Sun sets,
C:14 p. in.
Moon sits 2-"9 a. m.
The Trmprraturrs Tnilai.
. a. m 4.. II a. in.
s a m. 4". ! m
' a. m. "J i 1 p. m
10 n. in. VI ' p. m
f.
ISI
71
74
THE CALKMllK
Vlinh 11 Vssemlili. tnlrrItr Audito
rium "SiO p. in I.e. tun- l.v Ilr II
II. Powers, "The I'rol.U m of the
Adriitle"
Mirih 11 1 niiirsltv Auditorium, 7 30 p.
111 Lecture hv Ir. II II. Towers.
"The I'rnMcm of Constantinople."
Vlinh 1.V-I'nirirsitv Auditorium, 7 HO p.
in. lecture hj Ilr. II. II. Towers,
"I he Trolilim of the Itiltie"
Mmli lo CnUersltv Auditorium. 7 Sf) p.
m Liiture hv Ilr. II. II Towers.
"The Problem of the l"ir Hist."
Mirili 17 I'nivirsltv Auditorium, 7-.50 p.
m lasture liv Dr II. II. Powers,
"Itesiiine and Ton-cast of War In
Kurope "
mm is given
RIGHTTOCROSSLINE
Wilson's Reply to Mexican
Request is Affirmative,
Lansing Announces.
TO OPEN WAY SOUTH
First Chief Probably Will
Not Interfere With At
tack on Villa.
(U,I,EI V HHIM.HXT AMU. SI
Il .111 Uiller Thii Cliarnctorinl Ilr.
Powers, Mho Speak. Tonight.
"Doctor Powers has the gift of
anal zing brilliantly an economic and
political situation ab he sees it," Dean
Walter JIHIer said todaj of Dr H. H.
Powers, who will lecture in Columbia
this week, beginning tonight.
' The subject of Doctor Powers' lec
tures will be "War in Europe Its
Missouri nnnlied fnr n.iinfceton . t Permanent Causes." Doctor Powers
liulletin.
Ity United Pres
WASHINGTON, .Alarch IS. Sec
retary Lansing said late this after
noon that the state department had
reached an agreement with Carranza
regarding the United States troops
crossing the border, with the recipro
cal provision that the Carranza
forces might cross into the United
States.
the Union In ISIS, but was not ad
mitted until 1S21 because of the con
troversy as to whether she should
come in as a slave or free state. The
important events of this period will
be covered in the celebration, which
will be held in each count. Pro
grams of especial interest will be
given in the counties and towns that
were in existence in 1S1S-21.
EW r. COMI'AM-.sr.lKIMtOKK
MRS. EM TEXTER, 6G, PIES
End Comes fo Widow of Ronne f onn
f j- Pioneer at Fnlinn.
Mrs. Eli Penter, sister of r)r. J. T.
31. Johnston of St. Louis, died at 7:o0
o'clock this morning at Fulton. She
was Cfi vears old. 3Irs. Penter was
JnnnialNni Teacher i) Work for a
1e.ir on Melbourne Xevvsp.ipcr.
Charlfs o Ross, associate piofs-
tict Phiirrli nrnfiMitnr- nt tho mnrn- ' enr nf iniirimllsm in the ITniversitv. 1 . .. . ..
, ...s-s. r, ...- .,-.- - ine wne or r;n renter, a pioneer
ing unices of the church yefrda (has been granted a .vears leave of ab- BooJJe CountIan who dlcd at ?fdal,a
"I brieve that there is a Divine tsence from, the University. With his ,a,t fa, He a, promlnent, con.
ectian touav just as tncre was cen- family. He will leave Loiumoia auer .nected h noolH! County affairs flftr
tune, ago" said 3Ir. Young. "Just as commencement for .Melbourne, capital years a;o and waj th(? founder of
the Grecians were selected by God to of the Australian commonwealth. 'Ashland Bugle.
give to the world art and philosophy, where he will he emploved during his Funeral services for Mrs Penter
the Romans to give law, the Anglo-1 furlough on the editorial staff of the wi1 b(? h'cU tomorrow- at Salem
Saxons to give religious and civil hlelbourne Herald. He will return I church one mies north Q" Aenjam,
frredom. and just as Individuals have 'for the opening of the fall term of the lThe sprmnn ho ,.,,, ,,., v,. .
ceen selected by God to give to me
v'orld various things in times of dis
tress, 1 believe that Woodrow Wilson,
with the aid of the American people,
was selected to quell the clash of
arms today."
Men Uegln Study of Jlilitari Cour
tesy and IHscjpHne.
The first regular meeting of the
Columbia Jlachinc Gun Company will
be held at 7:"0 o'clock tonight in the
Commercial Club rooms, Tenth street
and Broadway. The comnanv will be
gin its work by studvmg instructions
in military discipline and courtesy
Renuisitions for all equipment fur
nished by the government were mailed
esterdav. the orders including every
thing from four Bennett-Mercier ma
chine guns to kitchen equipment for
the company cook. The equipment is
expected to reach Columbia this
month.
John D. 3IcN'eely of St. Joseph, col
onel of the Fourth Infantry. National
Guard of Missouri, of which the ma
chine gun company is a unit, will be
on hand tonight to inspect the Colum
bia addition to his regiment, accord
ing to Lieutenant E. E. 3Iajor, who
will have charge of the company here.
is eminent as an economist. He has
held the professorship of economics
and economic history in Smith Col
lego,, Leland Stanford. Jr. and Cor
nell Universities. He gave up his
professorship to take the presidency
of the Bureau of University Travel,
and has spent fifteen cars mainly in
Europe and the East.
The subject of his lecture in the
Auditorium tonight will be "The
Problem of the Adriatic."
3 EDITOeSJRRESTED
Newspaper Men Charged
With Violating Sunday
Law in Moberlv.
I'.r 1'nlteil I'res.
WASHINGTON. JIarch K!. It is
believed here today; that President
WiNon will be able to carry out the
expedition into 3Ieito against Villa
without interference from the Carran
za government.
Though lacking direct word from
President Wilson, officials say that
the request of Prisidltnt Carranza
that he be permitted to cross the Unit
ed States border in chasing outlaws
will be granted. The situation, how
ever, this afternoon, is causing un
easiness.
Secretary I-insing met the I'resi
dent late this afternoon to frame a
reply t the Carranza request. The
acceptance of the Carranza demands
is thought certain.
FAIR EXCIIAXJE IS SO ROBBERT
Two Operated on at Hospital.
Srown Glenn was operated on for
appendicitis at the Parker 3Iemorial
Hospital vesterday. John X. Taylor.
Jr. manager of the John X. Taylor
garage, was operated on today.
Univcrsitv in 1917
I Rev. Green W Hatcher of Columbia.
Another sister of Dr. Johnston. Mrs.
ssiuiiiii,iii 01 unirai .-M.ni. .Ty ti- TP!1slp.. nr Tt-!i-
Make
Assignment of the grocery stock of died jfarch 4.
J. F. Leebrick. whose store Is at Web
ster street and Wilkes boulevard, was
made today in the office of Circuit
Clerk J. E. Boggs. L. R. Dvsart and
L. B Stevinson were appointed ap
praisers. W. W. Pavne is assignee,
under bond of $ 3,000, with A. G.
Spencer and R. B .Price, Jr., as sureties.
Springs,
I'niTersify Mechanician Resiims.
E. Klinkerfuss. University mech
anician, has resigned on account of
poor health. He left last week for
St, Louis to consult a specialist. He
will probably go later to Arizona. Mrs.
KHnkerfuss is still in Columbia, but
will leave soon to join her husband.
Thieves filve Ten Bricks of Ice Cream
In Iteturn for Freezer Foil.
Again the ice cream thieves have
been at work. Iast Saturday night
the Acacia fraternity gave a dance,
and among the refreshments was ice
cream. The evening was warm, so
the ice cream was set out on the back
porch, packed in ice. And then some
one filched the freezer and its contents.
But those were not the usual
Ice cream thieves. They had con
sciences, which must have bothered
them; before the dance was over, ten
i JIOBERLY. 3Io, .Alarch 13. The
editors of 3IoberIs three daily news
papers, the 3Ionitor, the Democrat and
the Index, were arrested esterday
morning shortly before the papers
were issued from the press, the police
alleging the newspaper men were
violating the Sunday closing law by
working on Sunday.
At 6 o'clock vesterday morning
Pritchctt Walkup and Irby Gray, news
dealers, were arrested for delivering
the St. Louis and Kansas City papers.
Xo business houses were open in
3roberly yesterday. Several dealers
had large cards in their windows an
nouncing their intention to open at
midnight Sunday, and the streets were
thronged with crowds waiting for
"something to happen."
Taxicab drivers went joy riding
through the streets, but were not al
lowed to carry passengers.
El Paso Prepares Ainiuist Altai l.
I!.v Untied Tress
EL PASO, Tex, 3!arch 1.!. The
greatest sicrecy is being maintainul
today concerning the movement of tho
troops who are stationed here pre
paring to cross the border.
The citizens of EI Paso are filleil
with the martial spirit and hundreds
have armed themselves, fearing an at
tack from the local 3Iexicans after
the troops have departed.
The commandant of the Carranza
government at Juarez has been noti
fied by the government that he is re
sponsible for the safety of the ,100
American 3Iormons at Casas Grandrs.
1.0(1(1 Troops .Mobilizing at ("oliinibuv.
ISy United I'res.
COLU.MBUS. X. 31. 3Iarch 13 Tbo
fact that hundreds of troops are ar
riving hourly here today may be taken
as an indication that the first invasion
of .Mexican territory will he made m
this vicinity.
The Thirteenth Cavalry was out
fitted for travel this afternoon, and
it is thought that it will lead the 'n
vasion. AI movements of the troops
are under cover and the greaUst
secrecy is maintained.
It is thought that 4,000 troops will
be mobilized here by tonight.
SO ROLLER SKVTIMJ OX SODAY
Complaint Made That ofse Disturbs
Peace So Rink Is Closed.
The continuous thunder of many
rollerskate wheels at' the rink, near
the Wabash tracks, became so dis
turbipg to the Sunday rest of resi
dents in the neighborhood that Chief
bricks of ice cream were found on K I'oHce J. U Whitesldes was forced
the doorstep where the freezer ha.dt or(Ier its iHscontlnuance esterday
afternoon, me proprietor, i nomas
B. F. DIMMITT, IlRCfifilST, DIES
been.
'Potter, promised that never more
f- v..u t . 11 ti. wnnltl the rollerskate elide be seen
1 iiiiii riiiioii nr iiisjn--- unriuss. 1
R. J. Sanner. professor of science 'n hls PIace on Sunday. Xo arrests
In the Fulton High School, was in Co
lumbia esterday looking lover the
wireless stations with the intention
of installing one at Fulton soon. 3Ir.
Sapper was graduated from the Col
lege of Agriculture last June.
Accnsed of ChccK Forgery.
J. B. Huteheson. accused of forg-
inga check for $12.70 3Iarch 5 on R.
R. Rector and passing it at the Drug
Shop, was arrested esterday by
Sheriff Sapp and placed in jail. The
date of his hearing has not been set.
were made.
Last week complaint was made to
City Attorney George S. Starrett that
the place was open Sundays.
Sjiecial Train for Stephens Rooters.
One hundred Stephens College
girls left at 4 o'clock this afternoon
on a special M. K. & T. train for
Fayette, where the basketball team
of Stephens will play the Howard
Payne College team tonight. This will
be the last game of the season for
the local colege team.
RocheporTs "Most Honored Citizen"
Had Lhed There SIxtj-Two 'Veari.
At Rocheport esterday was buried
Rocheport's "most honored citizen."
He had lfn for sixtj-two years a
druggist in f'at small town and "the
world had made a beaten path to his
door."
B. F. Dimmitt, who died Saturday,
was probably the best known drug
gist in Central 3Iisouri, and friend
race iiom all over this part of the
elite to attend his i'ncral. Sev 'ra'
of his prom-jetary remedies are known
throughout the United States
3Ir. Dimmitt was born at 31illers-
burg, Ky.. Tanuary 19, 1828; moved
to Indiana fifteen ears later, and
when he was It came to Boone Coun
ty. !! went fo hool at Hovp il
High School, now- Central College, anil
afterward taught school for two yf ars.
In lS.'l he started the drug store at
Rocheport, which he had conducted
ever since.
3Ir. Dimmitt was a member of the
board of trustees of the Rocheport
3Iethodist Church for more than fifty
ears. Funeral services were held
at that church and the burial wn-i in
the Rocheport cemetery. Three "hP
dren survive him.
Accident Delays Wabash Trains.
A box car on Wabash freight train
Xo. S", left the track between Centra-
lia and 3IexIco today, delaying main
line jasfenger trains for on hour.
Trains on the Columbia branch arr'v
ee" on t'me.
