THE BARRE DAILY TIME
VOL. XIX NO. 307.
HAUHK, VERMONT, 31 ON DAY, MARCH 13, 1910.
miCE, OXK CKNT.
i
VERDUN DRIVE
APPARENTLY
IS AT AN END
Sunday Passed Without an
Infantry Attack Being
Carried Out, According to
Paris French Carried
Out Small Operation Last
Night
CAR II A NZ A HINTED
AT WAR WITH AMERICA
But Said Also That He Wouldn't Permit
United States Entry Into Mexico
Before Reciprocal Right
Was Given.
DUTCH-BELGIAN
FRONTIER REOPENED
Turks Report That the Brit
ish Suffered Heavy Losses
and Were Driven Back to
Protection of Ship in Gulf
of Aden ,
A pronounced pause has come in the
German offensive against Verdun, accord
ing to Paris. Sunday passed without
infantry advances and the German crown
prince's troops did not leave the trenches
at any rjoint last nieht. A small en
gagement occurred in Lepetre forest on
the left bank of the Moselle, to the east
of the St. Mihiel salient, where the
French report penetrating 200 yards of
trenches and withdrawing after destroy
ing the German saps. French aviators
bombarded the railroad station at Con-
flans, where fires were seen to break out.
Reports come from Dutch sources that
the Dutch-Belgiae frontier, which has
been closed for several weeks coincident
with the Verdun offensive, has been re
opened at one point. This is commented
on in Holland, according to a news agen
cy dispatch through London, as probably
indicating that the Germans consider
their offensive near an end.
In Arabia, according to Constantinople,
the British force trying to advance in
land from the Gulf of Aden was driven
back by the Turks to the protection of
the ships in the gulf.
French Official Report.
Paris, March 13. "There, was no in
Jantry fighting last night in the region
north of Verdun," according to the an
jiouneement of the progress of hostilities
made by the French war office this aft
ernoon. "There has been, however, eon
tinned artillery activity along all this
front."
FOUR MINES SPRUNG.
British Claim They Had Few Casualties
Therefrom.
London, March 13 The Britisli war of
fice eominuncation issued last night says:
"The enemy to-day sprang four mines
rear the Hohenzollern redoubt and gre
nade fighting. . There were very few cas
ualties and very little damage was done
to our trenches.
"Our trenches about Loos and the Bois
J)e Orenier were shelled. There have been
heavy artillery bombardments by both
tides about Ypres." ,
ESTIMATING BRITISH LOSSES.
Turks Say They Dropped at Least 5,000
at Falahie.
Berlin, via wireless, March 13. The
losses of the British forces in Mesopota
mia in the recent battle near Falahie are
estimated by the Turkish war office as
at least 5,000.
Mexico, March 13. General Carranza
last night issued a manifesto to the na
tion declaring that under no circum
stances would the Mexican government
grant the right to the United States to
violate Mexican territory by sending in
an armed force in pursuit of Villa with
out consent and the reciprocal privilege
being first obtained ajid admitted. Word
was sent to the confidential agent of
the Mexican government in Washington
to make immediato representation to
thjs effort.
General Carranza say's in his mani
festo: "I am sure that I interpret in this
matter the national sentiment and that
the Mexican people will comply in a dig
nified manner with their duty, be the
sacrifices what they may, to sustain their
rights and sovereignty if, unfortunately,
this drugs us into a war a war which
the United States can never justify. We
will not be responsible for the disastrous
consequences. Upon the heads of the
traitorous Mexicans, who within and
without this country have labored to pro
duce this result, will fall the inexorable
justice of tho people."
Iho full text of General Carranza s
manifesto follows;
"Because of the assault which Francis
co Villa and the bandits who accompanied
him made on the town of Columbus, in
American territory, burning houses and
killing some of the inhabitants, soldiers
as well as civilians, the international pit
nation in these moments is very delicate,
a the northern America press have ex
cited their people against Mexico, and
the government of that country hns dis
cussed the situation in the American Con-1
gress, members of which advised inter
vention.
"The constitutional government, which
I have the honor to represent, is also
occupied diligently in an effort to golvo
this delicate situation, trying at all costs
to maintain the dignity and sovereignty
of Mexico, and we vet hope that this la
mentable incident may be decorously ar
ranged, and that there will be no rea
son for an international conflict.
"I have addressed the government of
the United States, through tho foreign
office, stating that the invasion of Villa
has historical precedents, a.s in the years
1880 and 1888, two parties of Indians.
coming from the United States invaded
Sonora and Chihuahua, "committing
crimes and depredations on the lives and
properties of Mexicans.
"It was then agreod between the gov
ernments of the two countries to permit
the respective passage of armed forces,
resulting in the extermination of the In
dians. I have asked the American gov
ernment to pursue a like course in order
to solve future difficulties, should they
arise, noting that Villa and his compan
ions are a group of bandits whose acts
the Mexican government or people would
not be responsible for any instigations
of the reactionary element, that, lacking
patriotism and convinced of its defeat, is
trying by all means to bring on armed
intervention.
"I have not yet received the answer of
the American government and from the
reports of my chiefs along the frontier,
learn , that the American forces are
mobilizing, to pursue and capture and de
liver him to the Mexican authorities;
that the expedition is in the nature of
punitive campaign, and that the sov
ereignty of Mexico will be respected.
Ihe constitutional government has
given instructions to its confidential
agent at Washington immediately to
make representations that under no cir
cumstances will any motive, be the rea
son or explanations of the United States
what they may, justify the arms inva
sion of Mexican territory without recip
rocal rights being granted to the Mexi
cans, and that not for an ilistant will
tho invasion of Mexico territory or an
outrage to its dignity be tolerated.
"I am sure that in this I interpret the
national sentiment and Hint the Mexican
people will worthily comply with their
duty, be the sacrifices what they may, to
GRANT
ENTRY
RIGHT
Carranza Will Be Given Per
mission to Come into the
United States in Pursuit o
Bandits Only on Condition
That United States Troops
Arc Insufficient
CARRANZA'S ATTITUDE
GIVES LITTLE CONCERN
But the Attitude of the Peo
ple of Mexico to Entry of
American Troops Is Caus
insr Some Anxiety War
Department Professes to
Have No Definite News
Washington, D. C, March 13. The
United States will reply to General Car-
ranza's request for reciprocal arrange
ments for crossing of troops at the Me
ican border late to-day after Secretary
Lansing has conferred with President
Wilson. It was indicated that the Car
ranza proposal will be accepted.
The war department was still without
advices early to-day as to whether Amer
ican troops had crossed into Mexico. Sec
retary of War Baker said he had not
heard of any crossing and reiterated his
promise to make the news public as soon
as received. He added that the morn
ing's dispatches contained nothing of im
portance that could be given out.
The acceptance of the Carranza pro
posal probably will be made on the
ground that Carranza troops may cross
into American territory in pursuit of
bandits any time the American forces
are not present in sufficient numbers. It
will be pointed out that the inability of
the Carranza troops to handle the situa
tion in northern Mexico is the sole rea
son for the entry of American soldiers.
In that way the officials expect that
the situation will be relieved of its chief
menacing feature. They expressed the
view to-day that a great deal of unnec
essary pessimism exists as to Carranza's
attitude. As to the attitude of the Mex
ican people themselves, however, that is
some concern.
possibly it would have lieer advisable'
to go after Villa Thursday when his
raiders lied southward. They wero then I
demoralized and were dropping loot and
war material before attacks of fill men
miller Maj. Frank Tompkins. Requests
of Col. Herbert Sloctim, commanding the
l.'lth cavalry hero, and of Major Timp
kins to be allowed to renew the pursuit
Friday with a larger force, were denied
pending the organization of the largo
punitive expedition.
Yesterday it was stated that this expe
dition, owing to inadequate railroad fa
cilities, and the widely scattered posi
tion of the troops necessary to constitute
it, who have been on patrol duty, might
require several days' preparation before
it could outer -Mexico, at least from tins
Kint.
Meanwhile, reports from Mexican
sources that Villa apparently was carry
ing out a plan to elude pursuit by break
ing up his forces into small bands and
hiding among the mountains. Some of
his forces were reported to be approach
ing tho Sonora state border. Others were
said to bo making this way southward
and southeastward toward the mountains
of San Geronimo district, from which
the bandit chieftain started March 1,
with the announced intention of invading
the United States.
Colonel Slocum said lie had been ad
vised that the first squadron of the 13th
cavalry had been ordered to rejoin the
regiment. The latp, on account of its
exploit Thursday in beating off an over
whelming number Of Mexicans after a
stiff fight in which they inflicted possibly
la tunes the number of their own caaua!
ties, is said to have been assigned to the
duty of taking Villa's direct trail. But
owing to the exigencies of the patrol
duty to which the army has been as
signed ever since the outbreak of the
Mitdero revolution in 1910, the regiment
has had on duty here only two-thirds
or its strength. Tha first squadron, un
der Lieut.-Col. T. River, has been sta
tioned at Marfa, Texas, more than 250
miles east of here, and assigned to patrol
a stretch of territory 85 miles in extent.
It might be several days before this
squadron will be assembled here.
It appears to be the opinion of mili
tary men here that when Villa is found
and pushed on both sides he will not
stand aud fight.
Although ilia a strength in the battle
here was estimated from 1,500 to '2.500
men. ('apt. Rudolph Smyser and Cvit.
orge Williams, who participated in the
pursuit, described his retreat as precip-
tate. Prisoners captured declared that
he bandits were stricken by fear, al
though when they discovered the meager
orce of .! with which Tompkins entered
Mexico Thursday, they made a stand
it ti imki men.
K. II. Stone, special agent of the dc
partment of justice, was advised yes
terday that, the six wounded Villa aol
lers held as prisoners would be turned
over by the military authorities to t(te
state courts of ew Jlexieo for trial on
barges of having murdered the nine civ
laiia slam here Thursday. It had been
Stones intention to file charges of mur-
r against the bandits in the United
tates court or the district of New Mex-
MILL STRIKE
CALLED OFF
New Bedford Workers Wil
Return to Places on
, Tuesday
TEXTILE COUNCIL
MEETS TO-NIGHT
End of Trouble Followed a
Conference Yester
day Afternoon
Sew Bedford, Mass., March 13. Tho
strike at the Gosnold mill was declared
off following a conference yesterday aftt
ernoon between the mill management and
all the secretaries of the textile unions.
The strikers will resume work Tuesday
morning. The textile council will meet
to-night and formally ratify the agree
ment The mill management agreed to take
back nearly all of tho striking slasher
tenders and warp twisters, whose luck
out was the principal cause of the gen
eral strike being called at the mill.
NO STRIKE VOTE TAKEN.
WATER SUPPLY GONE,
COULDN'T FIGHT FIRE
BULGAR-RUMANIA CLASH.
There are Said to Have Been Many Cas
ualties. London, March 13. An engagement is
reported to have taken place on the
l)nnule between Rumanians and Bulga
rians near the town of Kahovo, says the
laily Mail's Odessa correspondent. A
Bulgarian frontier guard i said to have
fired upon a Rumanian ship which was
loading another vessel in Rumanian wat
ers. "The Bulgarians signalled an Austrian
punboat," the correspondent adds, "which
ordered the Rumanian vessel to the Bul
garian shore. They refused to comply,
whcreuon the gunboat oicned fire with
machine guns and rilles. Rumania
troopa replied to the fire. There were
many caualties on both sides."
sustain their rights and sovereignty. If,
unfortunately, we are dragged into a war
which the United States never can jus
tify, we will not be responsible for the
disastrous consequences, but will serve as
instruments for Mexico traitors within
and without our country, who have la
bored long to produce this result, and
upon their heads will fall the! inexorable
justice of the Mexican people."
FAUVETTE STRUCK MINE.
British Mercantile Fleet Auxiliary Was
Sunk.
London, March 13. It was officially
announced at the British admiralty yes
terday that the mercantile fleet aux
iliary Famette lias been sunk bv strik
ing a mine off the eaet coast of England.
J-oil! teen member of the crew were lost.
The admiralty statement says:
"His Majesty' mercantile fleet aux
iliary Faimtte has struck a mine off the
at coast and has sunk. Casualties:
To officer and 12 men."
The Fativette was formerly in the
service of the General Steam Naiieation
company, limited, of Ixindon. The ves
sel was built at Mtd dMrmiph in 1!12.
She wa .11. feet br,c, 4.1 f-ct beam, and
18 feet deep.
MUNITIONS PLANTS RUSHING.
Turning Out Large Orders for United
States Government.
Philadelphia. March 13. Four of the
largest munition plants in this section
are working on rush orders for steel
shells and rifles for the United States
government, according to statements
made here by officials of these companies,
who added that they are in a position
to supply the further need of this coun
try without interfering with their for
eign orders.
The Remington Arms company, it was
stated, is making 2.00O.000 rifles for the
army: the Kddystone Ammunition cor
poration 2.5H.1KK1 shells and the Bald
win Locomotive company. I.inni.OOO steel
forgings, while the Midvale Steel 4 Ord-natn-e
company is also working on large
orders for the United States in addition
to its foreign contracts.
Quarters at Monterey, Cal., Just Vacated
By U. S. Troops Bound for Mex
ico Were Destroyed To-day. .
Monterey, Cal., March 13. The head
quarters building of the Monterey presi
dio was destroyed by fire early to-day a
few hours after it had been- vacated by
troops of the first cavalry, who left for
the Mexican border. The firemen, in
attempting to extinguish the flames,
found the water supply had been shut
off at its force.
NAVAL RECRUITS MOVED.
1,500 Sent from Newport, R. I., to Lake
Bluff, 111., Because of Measles.
Chicago, March 13. On account of an
epidemic of the measles ht the naval
training station at Newport, R. L, most
of the recruits there will be transfered to
the naval station at I-ake Bluff. 111., ar
riving, the statement is made here, to-
dav. It is said that about 1,500 recruits
will be transferred from Newport.
It was suggested . that the statu au
thorities would also indict Villa on
charges of a murder and formally de
mand his extradition.
Although the Villa trail is getting cold
er every day, army officers expressed con
fidence in their ability finally to appre
hend him.
Francisco Miranda, one of the Mexican
prisoners, was sent to Fort Bliss yes
terday for the amputation of a gangrened
leg. Officers of the medical corps here
are making strenuous efforts to save
Jesus Raves, the 112-year-old boy who
was wounded among the Villa raiders
during the fight. His left hip was shat
tered. '
. It was announced that the two squad
rons, numbering about 1,000 men, of the
12th cavalry, under Capt. H. G. Sickel,
who were ordered from Ft. Robinson,
Keb., yesterday, will take the place cf
the l.'lth cavalry in posts here. One
squadron of the 12th is at Panama.
But Employes of New England Railroads
Want Wages Raised.
Boston, March 13. Demands for a gen
eral increase of 15 per cent in pay, time
and a half for all overtime work and a
minimum wage of $2.25 a day have been
made on all New England railroads by
the Easter Federation of Railway Clerks,
it was announced at union headquarters
here last night. No strike vote has been
taken, it was said, but committees have
presented demands upon the New York, J
New Haven & Hartford, the Boston &i
Albany, the Boston &. Maine, the Maine !
Central and the Central New England
roads.
DEATH DUE TO OLD AGE.
Mrs. Laura Crafts Patterson Died This
Morning, Aged 83.
Mrs. Iaura Craft Patterson passed
away at the home of her grand-on, K. B.
Guyer, this morning at 7:40 o clock, the
end being due to a general breakdown
incident to old age, I hree w eeks ago
wliiln visiting at the home of her sister
in Norwood, N. i Mrs. Patterson sut
tereit a slight shuck. Relatives accom
panied her home to Barro and thereafter
her condition gradually ltcw worse. Ine
was not confined to her bed until Satur
day. Mrs. Patterson is survived by her
sister, Mrs. dulia Bailey of Norwood
N. V.. and three grandchildren, K. 1).
Guyer, Mis Hazel (iuycr and Feiney
Patterson, the latter living in California
Surviving also are three great grandchil'
dren, Bcrniee Fishor, Lester Guyer and
Helen Guyer.
Mrs. Patterson was born in Craftsbury
Aug. 14, 130, her maiden name being
Miss Laura C. Mason. She was married
to John Patterson in Craftsbury in 1S.V1.
Mr. Patterson's death occurred in Barre
three years ago. Mrs. Patterson had
been a resident of this city for nearly 32
years.
Funeral services are to be held at the
house Wednesday afternoon at 2:30
o'clock. Rev. J. B. Reardon, pastor of
tho Barre Universalist church, will be
the ofliciatiiiK clergyman. On the fol-j
"MOVIE" HOUSE
IN REAL FIRE
Store and a Dwelling at Web-
sterville Were Also De
stroyed To-day
LOSS ESTIMATF
AT ap,;
,T $8,000
Wells, Lavjn Co. Ouarrv
w v v
Proy Seriously
Lndangered.
A fire having its origin in the general
store of Nicholas LaSasso in Webster-
villo spread with such rapidity last night
and this morning that the store, the
--"l";' " : ". "i P-lure theatre, owned by (Mule Gilbert
n i.ii i mii.Hn rv n r 1 1 i.f-riiit-ii L. ill Lilt; I
village cemetery beside the body of Mr.
Patterson.
THREE FUNERALS HELD.
H. H. Hollister'g and Kenneth McDonald's
Saturday; John Forbes' on Sunday.
The'funeral of Horace II. Hollister, who
passed away at tho homo of his daughter,
.Mrs. . J, t lapp of Mo Washington
street eaily Wednesday morning, was
held at the house Saturday afternoon at
12:30 o'clock, Rev. J. R. Rcnrdun, pastor
f the Universalist church, officiating.
ho bearers were: W. J. Clapp, Dwfght
H. Hollister, Dr. R. Gibson Perry and O.
K. Hollister. I he remains were taken to
the Hollister family cemetery on Hollis
ter hill in Marshfield, where the Masonic
services were used at the graveside.
PERSHING TO LEAD
PUNITIVE EXPEDITION
TRYING TO FORCE INTERVENTION.
BARREL OF ACID EXPLODES.
Showering Firemen with Flames as They
Fought $550,000 Fire.
Buffalo, X. Y.. March 13. Fire, said to
have been caused bv a dust eudoin.
virtually destroyed the fertilizer plant
of the International Agricultural corpor
ation here yesterday. The loss is esti
mated at .:.Vi.ia.
Although the main buildings were
burned to the ground the fire lasted le
than an hour. Barrels of acid and oth
er chemicals exploded in rapid sucees.si.in
sending showers of burning liquid on
the firemen and compelling them to fig! t
the blare at a distance.
Seven crnr-K-VM w iio were in the rmdd
Is the Way a Mexican City Newspaper
Characterizes the Movement.
Mexico City, March 13. The news of
the attack on Columbus by Villa and
his followers was first made public here
yesterday when the official organ E. Pue
blo published the text of a note of the
Mexican government asking the govern
ment at Washington to permit the pas
sage of Mexican soldiers into American
territory, if such became necessary in the
pursuit of villa, and at the same time,
granting to the United States the recip
rocal privilege of entering Mexican terri
tory for the same purpose.
Under the caption "The Columbus Case
Roguery of native ,)ind foreigners," El
Iuehl says editorially:
"The infamous and traitorous work of
reactionaries in the United States. has
finally reached its most abhorrent point.
Because they were imMtent to stem the
military and xilitieal triumps of con
stitutionalism, they have tried to f.'rce
armed intervention by the United States
in the affairs of Mexico, in an endeavor
to regain their lost power."
VILLA FORCES SCATTERED.
According to Reports Received at Colum
bus, N. M.
Reports from San Antonio Seem to Indi
cate That United States Troops
Are Already in Pursuit.
San Antonio, Tex., March 13.--Xo
movement of the expeditionary forces
that will reach Villa is probable to-day.
Major General Funston announced. Th
general said that preparations for th
expedition were going on despite Carran
ta's notification to the Washington gov
eminent regarding the entrance of
troops into this country. It was officially
announced tliat Brigadier General John
J. Pershing will command the ex'pedi
tionary force.
General Funston said he had received
no notification from Washington to hold
back the expedition while negotiation
are being completed with Carranza.
KEPT INFORMED BY RADIO.
CARGO SHIP AFIRE.
Explosion, of a Lantern Is Said to Have
Been Cause.
St. John, N. B. March 13. The Brit
ish steamer Matatua, which Vas about
to leave for New Zealand fully loaded,
was found to he on fire yesterday in one
of her forward holds. She was at anchor
off -Sand Point, but was immediately
towed back to the dock, and three tugs
and the local fire department poured in a
dozen streams into the hold. Shortly be
fore low water the steamer's bow
dropped tintil it rested on the bottom.
Because of the presence of a lot of
calcium carbide in the forward hold there
was much difficulty in getting the fire
under control. Streams of water were
still being poured into the ship at mid
night. ,
An explosion of a lantern left in the
hold by workmen is supposed to have
started the fire, though the cause has
not been fully determined.
The value of the cargo, which includes
500 automobiles, steel rails, provisions
snd general goods, is estimated at ffiis),
000.
The steamer is of 4.179 tons. She was
built in 1!X)4 in Belfsst, Ireland, and is
owned by the New Zealand line, which
has headquarters in Liverpool. It is
believed that the vessel is not seriously
damaged and that Bhc will be repaired
after her cargo is removed.
The funeral of Kenneth McDonald, who
passed away at his home on Trow bill
Thursday morning, was held at the house
Saturday afternoon at 2:30 o'clock. Rev.
E. F. Newell, pastor of the Hedding
Methodist church, was the officiating
clergyman and the bearers were: Rod
erick Campbell, John McRae, William
Furey and Louis Gay, all of Barre Town.
There were several fine floral tributes.
Interment was made in the Wilson ceme
tery at South Barre.
President Wilson Returned To-day from
Yachting Trip.
Washington, D. C, March 13. Presi
dent Wilson reached home to-day from
ins wecK-emi trip on the Mayflower, pre
pared to take up the Mexican questions.
He had been kept advised of all the de
velopments by radio during his absence.
CARRANZA LEADER CONFERS.
Comes to El Paso to Talk It Over with
Geo. Pershing. ,
Fl Paao. Tex, March I3.-;enersl Ga
briel Cavira, commanding the Carranza
force at Jnarc. came here this morning
tor a conference with General Pershing.
KILLED WHILE COASTING.
John H. Foutter, 10. Struck Automobile
at New Bedford.
New Bedford. Ma.. March 13 J.din
H. Foutter. lo year-old .n of Robert F
Foiitter of this c.tv. was almoet in-Lantlr
Columbus. N. M.. March 13. Report 'killed eterdav when the sl on hich
multiplied here yesterday that Fran.-isi'O ' lie an J his br:her were c--at ire rra-iiej
Villa is diMnJegralinif tie force of into an antomot. Je. our.g Fotittcr's
to tn n wh.-m he n-1 to mjn.il kuil wa fraiturd. but his lolh-r e-
i or io mafce me i nitini'm. ta!i ia-i ri ij-i injur. l :e orner of ue aoto-
lsys tt Ut to avoid a
ing when the first eipliion occurit J, Jhnr.Uv. mlle saw t
wu aid'y burned. An.rre.an m.l.Ury auiW.lk- mI Ut x.i;,i.,-n.
DEATH CASE CONSIDERED.
Vermont Industrial Accident Board Met
In Barre.
The Vermont industrial accident board
met in Barre this afternoon to consider
the case of estate of Richard Halsall
against Marr & Gordon. All members of
the board, R, W. Simonds of St. Johns
bury. San ford E. Daniels of Rrattleboro
and Fred S. Pease of Burlington, with
Miss Laura Burbnnk, clerk, were present.
It was thought that the lioard would
adjourn from the office of McAllister &
Kent to the law office of S. Hollister
Jackson, where there are ampler facili
ties fir the accommodation of a large
number of witnesses asked to testify.
Richard Halsall, a stone worker, died
on the night of Jan. 5, 11)16. -In the al
legation made by the estate it is claimed
that the man's demise was due to em
pyema, induced by injuries alleged to
have been received in the Granite street
plant of Marr A Gordon on the ISth of
September, 1!15. The defendant in the
proceedings makes the rejoinder that
pleurisy was the cause of death and that
unnatural cause had no part in his de
mise. Among the witnesses expected to
testify were: Dr. M. L. ( handler and
Ih O. (i: Stickney of Barre. Dr. II. C.
Tinkham of Burlington. subponaed to
the hearing as an expert witness. Dr.
I. W. Jaikson. Alexander Gordon. Mrs.
Richard Halsall, children of Mrs. Richard
HaNall and employes of Marr A Gordon.
The Royal Indemnity to. of New York
and Marr a liordon are represented in
the proceedings by Attorney S. Hollister
Jackson of Barre and Attorney A. T.
orteoua of New York City.
Funeral services for John Forbes, whose
death occurred at his home, 26 Merchant
street, Thursday afternoon after a long
illness, were held at the house Sunday
afternoon at 2 o'ekick, Rev. Edgar Cross
land, pastor of the First Presbyterian
church, officiating. The bearers were chos-
n from Clan Gordon, the Modern Wood
men and the granitecutters union, to
which organization the deceased belonged.
They were: James K. Coutts and John
McDonald from Clan Gordon, John Mc
Donald and J. Ogg, representing the
granitecutters, and James Walker and A. J
B. Goneo of Granite City camp, M. W. of
A. During the services, illiam fctcwart
sang two selections. J he remains were
placed in the tomb at Elmwood.
WAS CIVIL WAR VETERAN.
George L. McBride Died Yesterday at His
Home in Burlington.
Burlington, March 13. George Landon
McBride died yesterday morning at his
home at 11 North Willard street, the
cause of his death hoing hardening of the
arteries. Mr. McBride suffered a partial
shock four weeks ago while driving to
this citv from Colchester and since that
time had beeM confined to his bed.
Mr. McBride was born on July 11,
1S41, at South Hero, the-son of Margaret
Neil and William McBride. and was
therefore in the 75th year of his age. In
1S43 1 went with his parents to reside
in Colchester and lived there, with the
exception of the time he was at the
front, until he came to this city in No
vember of 1008. He married Emma
Wickware on April 2. 1867, and to them
nine children were born, of whom seven
survive. Thev arc Charles of Essex
Junction, George of Burlington, Mra. J,
M. Wright of 'Colchester. Mrs. M. P. Or-
s of Ilinesbiirgv Mrs. B. F. Rolierts of
Cbugwater. Wyo., and Mrs. C. M. Hen
derson of Jeffersonville. Mrs. Frances E.
Stevens died in March, 10i2. and Flavel
McBride died in April, 1006. Mr. Mc
Bride is also survived by 16 grandchil
dren and two great-grandchildren.
Mr. McBride was a veteran of the Civ-war.
ANOTHER CANDIDATE.
TALK OF THE TOWN
Funeral services for Mrs. Eva Lane
faekson, who died at the home of her
son. lalvin Jaikson, in iTance vvednes-
lay night after a two weeks' illness with
pneumonia, were lw;i,i at the chiirrh in
(trance tenter Saturday at no,,n. A
short prater service at the house preced
ed the s. rn-'ea at the church. Rev. Amos
Urd officiating at both servK-e. Mr.
Kdward Peak and Mr, .fame Iord sang
three sele, t !. "It Is V e!I with My
Soul." "Al'-p with Jesus" and "Abide
with M
laekon.
Gov. Brumbaugh of Pennsylvania Would
Like To Be President.
Philadelphia, March 13. Gov. Martin
Brumbaugh in response to a letter
from Henry G. Wasson, Republican na
tional committeeman from Pennsylvania,
urging that he be a candidate for the
presidential nomination, last nieht made
public his reply accepting the invitation
of Graniteville, and a dwelling house
owned by LaSasso and occupied by the
family of Louis Germaine were complete
ly destroyed. Losses are variously esti
mated, but it is thought that the aggre
gate losses will not exceed $8,000. It is
understood that LaSasso carried if4,000
on his store, $1,200 on the dwelling house
and $2,000 is the amount of insurance
said to have ben carried by Gilbert on
the Palace theatre. Other property,
principally buildings owned by the
Wells-La mson company, was endangered
by the flames, as a high wind prevailed
when the fire was at its height.
Appeals for assistance were sent to
the Barre fire department and to East
Barre. There were responses ia each in
stance. Chief Gladding got a call at the
local fire station shortly before midnight.
Accompanied by Fireman Peter Purichel
li and John Heney and Atlo Mariani of
the call department, the chief went to
Websterville in a two-seated sleigh. The
visiting firemen joined with others in
saving property adjacent to the LaSasso
and Gilbert premises, returning to Barre
soon after 2 o'clock.
Mrs. Joseph Reick and her son, Alton,
who reside across the street from the
LaSasso property, discovered the fire at
11:40 o'clock. Mrs. Rock was awakened
by the lurid glare of the flames and after
she had awakened her son, the location
of the blaze was ascertained. Fire was
issuing from the front door and windows
and within a few moments after young
Rock had spread the alarm, the store
building was in flames. A whistle at the
WJella-Lanison quarry sent its warning
message over a large area in Barre Town.
The booming of the whistle was heard
distinctly here in the city.
There were plenty of men to aid in
fighting the flames, but lack of facilities
retarded repeated attempts to keep the
flames confined to the building where
they originated. Very soon the little
theatre was afire and the Germaine
dwelling caught, within a short time
after the alarm was sounded. Melted
snow and two hose lines, the latter from
the Wclls-Lamson quarry, were factors
in keeping the fire from communicating
to other buildings. The nearest building
to the burned area that escaped the
flames was the house occupied by Daniel
Cameron, which is owned by the Wells
Lamson company. Household goods were
removed from the Cameron dwelling, and
other persons rapidly followed suit. The
house occupied by Alex. Bisset was hur
riedly emptied of its contents and every
effort was made to keep the exte'riors
dampened.
The store building was a two-story
structure erected a year ago. LaSasso's
general store occupied all of the ground
floor, while the second story was used ss
a public hall. It is said that the store
was opened for business Sunday evening.
even though Sunday opening in Webster
ville, it is stated, is prohibited. Gilbert's
Palace theatre, a motion picture house, .
was erected two years ago. It was one-
story high and so constructed as to burn
rapidly. Much of the insurance on tho
burned property is carried in the Tape
gency of this city.
Mr. Gilbert's insurance was $1,000 and
he figures his loss about $')00 over and
above that. He saved his moving picture
machine but lost everything else. He
plans to rebuild his motion picture house
on the same lot, possibly a little larger,
and will commence the work just as soon
as the weather permits.
TWO FIRES IN SAME STORE.
Damage of Several Hundred Dollars Don
at Middlebury.
Middlehurv, March 13. Fire that
caused a loss of several hundred dollars
hroke out twice late Saturday night in
Mr. Brinnbauc'h'a name will, accordingly, the market of Frank Shackett. jr.. in the
be placed on tho presidential preteren- the Lawrence block on Main street. The
tial ballot to be voted in the primary J blare started in the office about 1 1 o'clock
election on May 16. land was subdued by the ue of chemi-
Mr. Wasson, who wa cals.
In his letter
elected to the national committee by i During the fire b;e were thrown out
the follower of Theodore Roosevelt in 'into the street and after the blaze had
1012. urged the governor to assume the! been extinguished were again placed in
leadership in a movement to secure ,the store. About 12:30 oYlnck the lire
delegation to the Republican national j acain tirokr out. originating in these
convention which would 1 acceptable to boxes, it is thought, and the department
the Proeresives as well a the Republi-fwa again summoned and again put out
cans. Political leaders believe that the jthe fire ia a short 'imo.
,w-rn,,r announcement pre-iiijcF a nKin . - - -
e .. .. . . . j . -1 ft-iui
oeiween i.ov. ;iniea ai mwui. t-'"-.
in the Republican primary
Brumbaugh and United States Senator
Boies Penro-w for the control of the dele
gation from this state.
FUNERAL OF MRS. P. C. ABBEY
Was Held at Essex, with Burial in That
Town.
F.es June t ion. March 13. The funer
al of Mrs. P. C. Abbey, w !n died u l ien
Iv at her home Friday niorninif. was held
at the Baptist church at Essex je-ter iy
!a!t-rn"n at 2 oVl.x k. Rev. ,r. Bur A
lite hearer were luliin "i Jeru ho officiating. IVarers were !,e;
lame wkev. Harold Ja. kson " Bert Abhe ; ier grand.n. T; .-od re
at about rlKl. Ihe other ovi-
pants of the building. J. F. Novak, who
I conducts a lx t and repair shop in the
I first floor and the Addison comity C. O. I.
' F.. w ho have the second flr. were dam
!;ed bv smoke. Mr. Shackett has mads
arrangement to coudui t his buMnei
from his liou-e temporarily.
Calls
ORDER TO NATIONAL BANKS.
Business Cp t
For Report of
March
and Xflfl Bntsoa. Interment
the am.Ir k-t at Orange.
was in
AMey; O.aries n
Bursal was in Ij-k x.
anl Mr. lsL.ua.
V.,,ir,rtn
con:; lr.H r
a ci rr-viK ;r
1tie,r "s-n I.ti I
Marih i.
. D. C. Mr,h :,
t!e riirrerMT t-dav
X n it ion I l i V t
I at '. !- o! b
Tie
i-ue-(
r- p- rt
iisr,t
