FULL LEASED
WIRE DISPATCHES
' '
CIRCULATION IS
OVER 4000 DAILY
THIRTY-EIGHTH YEAR
SALEM, OREGON, MONDAY, MARCH 13, 1916
ON TBAIN3 AND NEW
8TANDS FIVK CENT
PRICE TWO CENTS
mm Mum
CilZA'S TALK
OF III IS MOSTLY .
FOR Ml AV'IE
.. -
Is Secretly Glad Ai&
, Will Eliminate Villa,
He Cannot
ians
PUTS UP BOLD FRONT TO
HOLD GRIP ON PEOPLE
Assembles Cabinet 109 Miles
From Capital and Awaits
Lansings Reply
By Eobert J. Bender.
(I'nited Press .Staff oriespoiuli'iit.)
Washington, Mnr. l.'i. Secretary
Lansing iiiinuuncpcl this afternoon the
state department had reached an agree
ment with General Carrinza with re
gard to American troops entering Mex
ico, and with regard to the "military
reeiirocity ' ' proposition made by the
' ' first chief. ' '
It is lielieved the agreement is. a mod
ification in some points of Carranza 's
proposals in his proclamations issued
yesterday.
Secretary Lansing gave out the fob
li vi iijr assurances to Mexicans:
"In order to remove any apprehon
MoiiH which may exist in either the
United States or .Mexico, the president
lias uuthori.ed me to give in his name
public assurance that the military op
erations in contemplation will be strict
ly confined to the order already an
nounced, that in no circumstance's will
they be suffered to encroach in any de
cree upon Mexico's sovereignty or de
velop into intervention of any' kind in
liie internal affairs -of our sister re
public. On the contrary what is now
being done is deliber itely intended to
preclude the possibility "of interven
tion." By Robert J. Bender.
i I'nited J'ress staff correspondent.)
Washington, Mar. lit Two considera
tions are still halting the proposed Am
erican invasion of Mexico in pursuit of
General Villa.
First: The government desires Pro
visional President Cnrranza's consent,
grudging or otherwise, before the bovs
in khaki are sent over the line.
Second: Major General Fred Funston.
rather than go off "half cocked," is
holding his men back until he is com
j'letelv ready to smash his hardest.
Within a day or two the invasion
will certainly hegi;,, it is believed.
Army officials predicted the Americans
would enter Mexico on Wednesday at
the latest.
'resident Wilson has returned to
Washington from a week-end yachting
trip. He had engagements today with
Secretary Lansing. Senator Stone and
other lenders, to frame a reply to Cnr
ranza's request for permission to" in
vade America himself in pursuit of ban
dits in return for allowing Americans
to invade his country.
Would Make Himself Hero.
That this request will be granted was
onsiciere,! sure. .Some officials declared :
tiirranzas bellicose tone with a hint Troopers of the First cavalrv, en
of possible war was largely for home route to the front from Monterey,' f'.ili-,
consumption. It was regarded an being ! foruin, will probably encamp at Colum-'
designed to meet Mexican popular opin-ibus, X. M. " I
ion opposing "invasion" or "interven-l Nothing Heard of Mormons.
tion" and to give Cllrnm Wnl on.ll Whereabouts of the Anmriciin Mnr.
moral grounds for consenting to the
-Miiericau move. jwoom ilia threatened to massacre,
A more ominous view- was taken byisl'" remain a grave mystery. Hishop
others who considered the manifesto's'"1"'1' ot r"e Mormon church, called on
tone offensive. They asserted curran". Carranzista Agent Gavin this after
za 's was establishing' n po.'e designed to ' requested that the settlers be
make him, in eas" of international i;f-. loi nteil and provided with an adequate
f 'lenities.
the Mexican popular hero in
(Mend of Villa.
The government.
was disposed to
(Continued on T'nce KigtiM
Mi 'li- r X
ADS LiSr 13 jjl
I
Xiithin ' ' U ever replacr
' I 'd move t ' titwn bef.in
horse r-i.li-h.
I M fight t'er
any country," .-aid Tipton Bud t'dav.
... k
SIXTH INFANTRY
FIRST TO START
Marched Out of Fort Bliss
and Headed West to Take
Up Position
RAILROADS GUARDED TO
PREVENT DYNAMITING
American Consul Telegraphs:
"Deny Reports of Anti
American Feelin?
By H. D. Jacobs.
(I'nited l'ress Staff Correspondent.)
Ml Paso, Texas, Mar. II!. American
concentration against (leneial Fran
cisco Villa and his followers is in full
swing tiiis afternoon.
The Sixt!i infant rv marched out of
Fort Bliss and headed westward, en
route to 'somewhere on the bonier."
Other bodies of troops are moving.
Censorship has not yet been estab
lished over dispatches from the front,
but railron.l employes were tol.l they .
would be expelled from service it they
give out information about military op-
erntions. 1 he Hixta is traveling under ,
sealed orders, rrom various uuotticial
sources it was learned its destination is
believed to be Columbus or llachita.
.The Sixteenth infantry is to follow. It
is believed the Sixteenth will go to I'ol
umbus where upwards of o.OOIl men are
to be concentrated by the time the or
der to march is received.
The date of the Villi hunt remains a
mystery. As details of the thorough
ness with which the expedition is be
ing planuel become known the impres
sion increases that the moment of start
ing the invasion may be advanced to al
low time for all preliminaries.
If General Carranzi co-operates in
the huge manhunt it probably will be
gin earlier than otherwise. If iie defin
itely announces his intention to oppose
the expedition it will likelv be delaved
so plans may be made for campaigning I
(ituii.-L ruiun;;i- jit'Aii ill luiccn mull 11
now anticipated may be encountered
some carranststas Will Oppose.
Indications are that whatever stand
the provisional president takes, a con
siderable number of Carranzistas might
ultimately oppose the entry of an Amer
ican army into Mexico. The consti
tutionalist generals uniformly awaited
instructions from (jueretnro, where Car
ranza has called a special meeting of
his cibinet. Meantime the Carranzis-
tas are apparently concentrating along
l:.e ooriier. It is estimated there are protection.' They possibly will offer
more than 10,(1(10 of them in northern their services to assist in the invasion.
Mexico, iiiid an unusually large number One thousand have nlreadv volunteer
scattered along the internatioii.il bona- ed. A regiment may be "formed for
'li'i'.v. service in Mexico.
Military patrols have been establish-1 Influential cattlemen of western Tex-
ed on nil railways passing through Kl as md New Mexico plan to organize
I'aso. Thev are chisel v guarding the
tracks wherever they skirt the Mexi-
c in line. liecause of troop movements
over these roads it is feared Mexican.
sympathizers mignt dynamite them.
"
The vanguard of Americans fleeing
troin the iMexicau interior is expec
here tonight or tomorrow
nions on the way to the I'nited States,-
scort. i
General Pershing conferred with fla- V. Carter, of Ashland, were Medford
virn nt the Mexican consul ite. He re- visitors Wednesday. Mr. Blair is open
fused to discuss the session but in- ing up the Ashland granite quarry, six
timated his interview was "very sat- miles from Ashland, on Neil creek, and
isfactory. " is enthusiastic over the prospects. He
Advices from the slate ilepartment claims to have found three ledges of
declared that Gavira, as representative superior granite in dace, and that the
of the do facto government, would be crunite cannot be distinguished from
held responsible for the Mormons' s if e-
.EGYPTAND SUEZ CANAL
SAFE FROM GERMANS
UNTIL NEXT WINTER
By William G. Shepherd.
(I'nited Press Staff I orrospondent.)
Itonie, Mar. 111. Egypt ami the Suez
.' .
canal ire absolutely sate troiu the Ger-
' ,.
nians tor at leat one more year. :
While in Athens 1 ohtni I this in-
I formation direct from a reliable source could carry only five pounds of riiiinni
,in Constantinople. The Greek censor- rition each besides their own firage.
i.-hip prewntcd it being 'eut at that This tended to ilissidve the Arabian
itiine. : mchts drenm picture of long camel
I'el'ioarv was the la-t month wiieu
tl:e shiltiiig doert suols east of the
anal were firm i nonth to sustain a
inian hin;; column. The movement of
artillery ami supply wagons on the des-
eit will be ipos.il. I,, fur onths.
i Mioies that the Germans are building
I railways an. I supply roads in the desert ,
DOUAUMONT CENTRE OF THE WORLD'S BLOODIEST BATTLE
LES I FOSSES
130
" - 3 .ia
R3. de ThizurAclJ&t
J6
I
fs . - TOw
' Black line indicates approximate position of the battle front.
In the region shown on the map, a few miles north and east of Verdun, there has been in progress, since
February 22, what is probably the bloodiest battle in history. Scores of thousands of Germans have been killed
and 'hsr jcqres if thousands wounded in a fruitless effort to drive the French from the defenses of Verdun.
ty. Thero were sensational but uncon
firmed reports that the Mormons were
marching toward the morder on foot
ncross the ilesert iitnlt.rtrni nir ti.rrililn
nai.,lsMip9. This seemed incredible, but
it waa wi,iey discussed,
Although Mexican and Northwestern
t,.ains have been Mil at ivarson 8tate
o Chihuahui, since Saturday, await-
ing to receive the .Mormons, tney have
not arrived there. '
Carranzistas have begun digging
trenches on several points on the bor
der east of Juarez. These entrench
ments face Kl I'aso. The Mexicans
also sent troops and occupied an isLuid
in the liio Grande I'roiii which Kl I'aso
woluil bo easy of access. Soldiers of the
Seventh infantry and a number of spe-
Hal deputies armed with rifles were1
placed on guard opposite the Carran
zistas. Chihuahua Not Unfriendly.
American Consul Marion Letcher tel
egraphed from Chihuahua City this af
ternoon: "Kvory thing quiet, lioth
authorities and people, are showing ad
mirable poise and self control. I'lease
,onv reports of strong anti-Ainericui
iCCling.
lieneral Pershing conferred with the
mayor at noon. It waa said they dis
cussed th ;opo! J ion of establishing
martial law on the border after the
American expedition enters Mexico.
There is seemingly no doubt that
General 1'crshing will command the ex
pedition. He is expected to move his
headqu.irters to Columbus within a day
or two.
Cowboys and other men handy with
guns have begun organizing for local
anil eipiip a regiment ot cowboys. They
may offer its leadership to Colonel
lloosevelt.
Comptroller of Currency
issues tail to banks
The comptroller of currency today is
sued a call to all of the national banks
for a statement of the affairs at the.
idose of business March 7. Slate hank
Superintendent S. G. Sargent also is-
sueit a call to the state banks tor the
same date. This is the first call this
year. Last year the national banks
had six culls and the state banks five.
Medford Mail: . M. Hlair and K.
the famous Barre granite of Vermont.
;are fibrications. They cause. I great
1 amusement in Constantinople where too
'character of the desert reigon is well
L ,,..
'. , ,
neriuan siatr experts esiimaieu inat
,i ,,..,i:,. i i ,.i .i,
liamascus ruilwiiv toward the canal,
Mains moving enormous supolic of mu-
nations toward the can il.
KeMit and Suez are left nut of the
Turkish Gcrnn plans for a year to come
at least. Tiie Germans, however, will
continue to threaten the canal, hoping
the British will be frightening into
keeping 000,0011 men idle in Kgypt.
VAUCHE?:
2
EQUIPMENT
TO LOCAL
3 JtrrM
0 V lAPLuritn: m
ON HURRY-UP ORDERS
The equipment of Company II, 0. N. stretcher and first aid remedies while
(i. is being hurried to this city accord-: eueh soldier has a first lid package of
in" to a notice received today by" Cap-1 handy bandages und splints for dress
tain .Uehliiar from Adjutant General ! wounds on the field of battle. The
White. Twentv-one new Springfield i company has a medicine chest which is
with a full jpportionnient of ainniiini-
tion will arrive robabiv tomorrow,
There are already 7(1 rifles in the com-
pnny and since thv. three officers and
the'first snrgeant, and two musicians
are not equipped with rifles the U7
rifles will furnish the compiny for the
field against the Mexicans saould the
order come at any minute. With the
rifles and amiiiiition will be sent all of
the field equipment for war including
wire cutters for trimming the spines
off the cactus plants, shelter tents to
protect the soldiers from the Mexican
sun ami interenehing tools to protect
them from the Mexican sons.
Kvery other squad receivs on axo and
the other squads a bolo. The copany
hospital equipment consists of one
War Stocks Boomed and
Whole List Is Strong
New York, Mar. 1.1. Despite
the
Mexican crisis and the sinking of the
Silius. which further complicated dip-j 3'000 COYOTES KILLED
lomatic affairs, war stocks after an Sacramento, Cal., Mar. Kl. That at
interval of uncertainty advanced rap-' h'ast .'1(1,000 coyotes were shot or pnr.i
i.lly today, reminding Wall Street of ; 'el in Lassen ami Modoc counties dur
Ociober's boom. j ing the outbreak of rabies, was the
Business was resumed with the spec- statement today of Sanitary Inspector
illative sentiment decidedly mixed and K. T. Koss upon returning from the
somewhat depressed as a result of the scene. He says the outbreak has sub
Carranza manifesto. sided so that danger is past.
The first impetus was furnished by
reports of extensive government muni-' Loron T. King and Eay Anderson,
tions orders. Large business activity two privates in Comp my M enlisted to
wis well aintained until the last hour. da'iV in tiie I'. S. navy according to in
Speculative conditions remained un- formation sent by the recruiting offi
changed. Plunging in specialties con- cor to Captain Gohlhar. Tiie young
tinned. 1 men have been accepted and their dis-
Petroleum and smelting and refining charges from Coinpiny M will be fur
recovered most of their early losses, warded to them at once.
c
Germany Announces Peace Terms.
Washington, March 1:5. It was authoritatively
stated today President Wilson has been informed
of the peace terms Berlin is likely to make if Ver
dun falls. Colonel E. M. House, the president's em
issary to Europe, was said to have been presented
the tentative terms as modified by recent months
of warfare..
He did not go to Berlin for that especial pur
pose, but while there he did receive an outline of
the propositions. High German officials here
testify to the correctness of his outline, which says
the kaiser will make the following demands:
Return of all German colonies.
No indemnities.
Montenegro, Serbia and Albania to be divided
between Austria, Bulgaria and Greece.
Antonomy for Poland.
Freedom of Turkey from British influence.
Germany to return Belgium and northern
France.
Russia to assume possession of Persia.
Great Britain to remain as at present, neither
giving nor receiving anything.
High authorities said neither side was in a posi
tion to demand indemnities. With regard to the
kaiser retaining Belgium it was said: "There was
no longer any thought of that in Germany."
n r w 1
IS COMING
COMPANY M
tilled with nandy remedies for burns,
scalds, bruises, chilbliina and buck
ague. The copany nlso has a barber
I V1'1 ,''"lt weighs lj pounds in which
is placed safety razors, brushes, soap
ml othl,r articles necessary for the
soldiers toilet
New lockers will be added to the
armory equipment as soon as they ar
rive and can be set up. The .'10 odd
new recruits that were added before
the annual inspection gave Salem the
largest military company in the his
tory of the local organization and the
present limited accomodations were
t ixed beyond capacity. It is probable
that another company will be recruited
in Salem as soon as Company M leaves
lor the Mexican border.
Some new features like industrial nl
I cohol advanced over four points and
i figured proiueiitly. Steel was strong.
I It was improved 1 .'1-4. American Lo
comotive sold up about six pints.
BATTLE AT VAUX
T
E
Germans Sacrifice Lives Reck
lessly In Repeated At
tacks On Fort
ATTACKING ARMY LOSr
TWO-THIRDS OF ITS MEN
Buichcry Only Stepped When
German Officers Withdraw
Remnant of Force
By Charles P. St J vart.
(I'nited Press staff con cqiondeut.)
London, Mar. Li. -Fighting nt Ver
dun entered its fourtn week today with
reports of terrific artillery work around
Forts iJounumoiit, De Vaux and Bethin
court evidently in preparation for more
infantry operations.
All day Sunday German ennnon
searched the French front with a hail
of projectiles. The French nccepted
this as forecasting new attempts
against Fort De Vaux and the positions
southwest of Verdun. They are pre
pared to meet whatever the day may
bring forth.
Berlin dispatches admit the Gcrmnns
ncOongor hold Fort De Vaux. Paris
credited the Germans with great brav
ery but reiterated that the Teutons nev
er entered the fort itself. According to
French accounts, a Posen regiment 'first
charged into Vaux village, then em
erged from it anil ran toward the fort
which stands :I00 feet above the plain.
"French officers say they never saw
Germans sacrifice their lives so reck
lessly." Stlid a Paris disontch "Ttiev
Xt.,.11.. ... , ' ' .. V 1
iL.iauuij ..ivi'muciicu iroiu iiicir
trenches and.,' attacked in ranks four
deep, smothered by the French fire. Six
and eight inch shells exploded right on
top of the huddled Germnus. When the
smoke and dust cleared nothing could
be seen but a mass of tangled bodies.
"The spur on which the fort stands
is in many places almost perpendicular.
When they reached its teep sides the
j main force of Gcrmnns was obliged to
I halt, but many Buvarian reserves
I struggled up the slope nmiil a hni! of
bullets. They climbed on one nnother's
shoulders hanging to the sharp tingles
of rocks and grasping tufts o'f grass.
Ifeiiealedly, however, their human pyra
mids collapsed into shapeless gray
masses.
"Where the slopes were not so steep
the German attacks was concentrated
nail the ditches ran red with their
blood.
"Finally their officers halted t'"
butchery and the fighting stopped.
They must nt the very lowest estimates
'lmve lost more than two-thirds of their
strength."
French Make Slight Gain.
Paris. Mar. 1.1. Launching a sudden
thrust against the Germans In the
Carmes forest, French troops stormed
and cnplured over !H0 yards of
trenches, taking 20 prisoners, it was of
ficially nniioiinced today.
Intense bombardments were reported
in the region of Douaumont, Betliin
court, Wovre and La Petrie woods.
There was no infantry fighting north
of Verdun during the night.
French Drop EomTis.
Paris. Mar. III. Thirty bombs were
dropped by French aeroplanes on Con
flaus railway static n, it was announced
today. The machines returned unharm
ed. Klsewhere there were no aerial
operations ot importance.
German Loss 200,000. (
Puris, Mar, I.'!. German losses in tfhc,
first three weeks of liniiimering at Ver
dun were officially estimated at 200, '
000 men today. j
Great Artillery Duel.
London, Mar. l.'i. Nortnenst and
ki.iii ho.. ut .c v ,.-.),... ......ti. :.. ..1...1.
I ... r.i.iiiu i it.- i-.iiiii in sntin-
! ing today under nil incessint and ever
I growing pound of artillery. The fight j
is exteniiui" along a curving front
! southeast of the fortress, according to
I I'.ouiiuuiiiipie by both sides.
When shells have shattered and des
I'roved everything not strong enough to
j w il nstnu.l blow after blow from high
cx losivesf it Is believed German iu
j fa n try will ilavli forwird again over
ground which has already been repent
Icily drenched in Teuton blood. Paris
I says the French await the new thrust
' confident ly.
I Uoth Paris and Berlin reported the
struggle most severe lit La Pet re, to
.miles southeast of the cit i.bd. In the
('urines fiir.st the French suddenly
j leaped from their positions and stonn
ic. over uoo yards of trenches, captur
iing L'O Germans who didn't have timo
jto escape before the yelling Frenchmen
warmel upon them, according to Paris
accounts.
! Aviators resumed operation. A
. Preach air s.pin.lioii sw.iupc.l down on
I I he Couflaus railway station and sent
:t0 bombs crashing into il. tither bombs
: were dropped on the railroad yards, butt
jthe machines cir led upward and sped
(Continued on Page S' via.)
ONE OF BLOODIES
SI
WAR BEGUN
IRIH COLOHY
STILL III DANGER
F
Bandit diief May Wipe It Out
Before Fleeing to the
j: Mountains
ARMY TWELVE THOUSAND
AMERICANS GATHERING
Carranzistas Hate Villa But
the Gnngoes MoreCan
They Be Controlled
By H. D. Jacobs.
(United Pre.-is staff correspondent.)
Kl I'aso, Texas, Mnr. 13. Threatened;
with organized resistance by an aroused
Mexico, Uncle Sam's expedition to
crush General Francisco Villa was still
held in leach today.
Regiments of iiiTnnttry, artillery, cav
alry and engineers and forces of all
army branches are en routo in special
trains to the new "war frout" either
to participate actively in the invasion
or to replace border troops sent acrosa
tho line.
The hour to "go in" is now expected
to nrrivo Tuesday, although General
Funston's policy of thorough prepared
ness before advancing and tho negotia
tions of Washington diplomats with a
definato Carrnnzia may cause further
delay.
General Carranza 's threatened oppo
sition and Villa's flight toward settle
ments of American Mormons, who am
nt his mercy, hnvo torn tho border
between feelings of linger and fear. Tho
problem of sei.ing all northern Mexican
railways and preparing to fight both
Carrnnzistns and Villiatua now con
fronts army heads.
CnrriumL officials have already ex
perienced trouble suppressing n mutin
ous spirit against Americans. Anti
American demonstrations were report
ed from several points. Consul Marion
Letcher at Chihuahua City, is riMhing
arrangements for the transportation of
50 American families there to the bord
er Carranza Officers Arrogant
Kix Americans from Chihuahua City
arrived today. They declared two Cur
ranzista officers there threatened their
lives. One is reported to have said:
"Wo are going to take all you gringoes
and hang you."
Villa was last reported heading south
ward from Corralitos toward San linens
Ventura, near the .Mormon settlements.
It is evident ho is either determined
to execute his th.vnt of wiping out the
American co'.ony oi else fleeing toward
the mountains to hide from tho Yankee
pursuit.
It is lielieved the bandit chief has di
vided his followers into gueerilla bands.
Somo of his men were even reported in
northern Durnngo. At' Onejos, nortli of
Torreon, a ti.iu of the Mexican Nm
t.oi.al railway Willi several Americr is
at'nrd was held i.p ty illistas. The
wire beaten off after a sharp fight with
30 Carninzi.ita jjnards.
Kl Paso had Its first opportunity to
display a material spirit last night. Tha
remainder of the Twrr.C'th iufantr,
about 700 strong, passed through ,th'
city aboard a ling troop train boiintt
for "somewhere on tho border." hoora
fro n the soldii rs wcro the citizens
"irst iutimntiou of their pretence. Vhou
.iml: of Hvilinns nn.iv.o'nj cheer.
i-coi'M of exci.ed men a'vira I arovicd
toe s'owly moving cais j c'l'iiy. "Give
1'iote greasers belli "
Carranza Oarrison Kiillnes.
ti:.(l:cds of Amer'.:ni:s nra golnjf
kIiouI tho streets armed Tk'.v fear tha.
tho upletion of tho gi-r'soi lierj may
ouri iiago Mediums to ntt ae, - J.I J'uo.
I'livino.'er Geu 'nil Per.hi.i.'. in com
nni i, told tho city authorities the tow.i
would be protected. Many deputy sher
iffs were sworn in and set lo patrolling
tho wtrcats, carrying automatic rifles.
lfeports that the Carruniufa garrison
at , i are, was mutinous a id makini;
threats against Americans caused appre
hension A former Carraii'.isln official
hero asserted all Mexico would riso
againi.t the invaders.
"!!.. .irranzii tas hate tho ViUV
t.n, but I'll Mexicans hate I he in?r
ic;s"S more," he declined, addiiij; tlu.t
ecu if iitK "first chief" ag-eed to toe
(Continued on Page Eight.)
TIIE WEATHER
- -
Oregon: Fair to
'night tnd Toes
day, light frost
interior west por
tion tonight, and
wind:! from tha
northwest.
ROM 1LISTAS
