- " yLA
-w
V1
Strati
Herald
KLAMATH COUNTY'S
OFFICIAK NEWSPAPER
KLAMATH FALLS'
OFFICIAL NEWSPAPER
y'f
KLAMATH FALLS, OREGON. MONDAY, MARCH 13, 1916
Price, Five Oenla
en?
nn
h Vmr-No. 18,080
All Is Re
ady for Move
Mexico
CARRANZA GIVES
CONSENT TO THE
U. S. EXPEDITION
m mm m . .- -- . . .
ARTILLFRY ROARS
ALONG THE WEST
FRONT III EUROPE
civ
US?1
ftillnl I'le-sHi't'lr"
WASHINGTON. I). 0.. Mnrcli 13.
Setrelary UnsliiK iiiinouticotl Into thin
itteraoon (lint the government lins
Mtbtd an nEit'viiiuiit with Currniuu
rfftrdlw Unltul Mule troops ontor
U Mexico In Ncnrcli or Villa, with it
reciprocal provision for the Cunuiuii
forcei.
later, biiinliit; made it ittnlutnutil
formally aHiurliiK tho Mexican pooplo
tint American nctlvltlne are not for
Ihe purpose of Intervening In Mexico,
but on lil bo Htrlctly confined lo the
' tipture of Vltln
Thre was n hot debnto today In
Itliftinlc over tlio president's policy.
ItularCtiftiuberlnlii, hold of the son
it military committee, predicted that
10,000 Mexicans would nupport Villa.
Preeldeat Wilson believes ho enn net
without awaiting action by tho sen-'
H.
ORclaU are tim-iay, however, re-,
ft'dlnt the ftliiirttlon In Moxlco. It Ik
fared that Villa wilt spread reports'
imonr. the uneducntcd Mexlcnnu to'
the effect tlmt tho expedition by the1
United States U otio of conquest and
tttreiilon, and will thereby rally tho
Uexlcaoi to Ms defenne.
Secretary of War linker Insists tlmt !
hedo not plan upon calling out tho
Bllltli. Army omcore, however, admit
thMiuch action may be necessary.
Owlni to the Rcnrclty of regulars,!
KilLnnni n. .-..i... a I
"Hiuuniiiuii iiiiu Tuiuuieurn
Mr b called out to gunrd the border.
NEW ASSAULT8 ARE EXPECTED
AT VEHDUN
I. illlo Inland) Arthit) Notiil Vtor
tin) French tlitlni the Cn4urit of
titer Tvto IliimlroO VnrtU of Treticli
in Cnrine I'ormt Iiiiciihu Artil
lery llomlmitlmml In Going on All
AIoiik ''" 1'lnu.
I iiitnl l'n'(.s Sort lri
LONDON, Mnrch 13 Tremendous
nrtlllory botuhurdmeul rugea all nlong
the lino to the northeast and south
east of Verdun.
Iloth cotnmunliitiuH nutu thin, uud
both Fronch and Herman ndvtcoa Indi
cate preparations for now usauults at
different points. Tho Kronen are eon
lldont or saving Verdun
lulled Press Rervlro
MEXICO CITY, Mnrch 13. Prcal
nt Carranza linn Hiiinmoned the cab
inet members to moot at Quoratrlo
No tetlon will bo takon until Secre
tory Lamlne's reply to the reciprocity
propocal has been received.
It li believed hero that the crisis
HI toon pais,
jt l U-il I'tt'-n ! tin-
I'AKIS, Mnrch 13. ll la announced
that tho French Imvo captured ovor
200 inrdH of trenches In tho Cannes
forest, taking llfty prisoners.
An InteiiNo bombardment Is In prog
ress In tho regions of Dntmumont,
Ilothluchlrt, Woovio ud tho Lu ptorlo
forest, but there havo boon no In
fantry attacks north of Verdun
I'slted Praia Rervlco
8ANDIE0O, March 13. AH naval
"Mela in the harbor ore coallni to
4)r. na ln other wnys gottlng In
fMdlnen for sorvlco. It Is roportod
U the gunboat Annupolls loavoa for
"?outh tomorrow.
nr troops f tho First Cnvalry.
"t oned at tho exposition, left today
f the border.
Artillery so lnrgo and powerful that
It will bo poislblo to bombard Eng
land from tho continent Is tho certain
product of tho near futuro, according
to Professor Fritz ItniiHCuborKor, co
dlroctor of tho Krupp yorka and In
vontor of tho famous 12-contlmetor
guns.
Tho Phlllppluo bill, Including tbo
Clark nmondmont ns passed by tho
sonnto, providing for Independence
any tlmo between two and four years
In tho president's discretion, was fa
vorably roportod by house Insular af
fairs committee.
Trial of A. E. Lawf ence
Begins in Circuit Court
iiinannsgas
1 mmMffxmi
Twelve Thousand
re Ready to
Over Line
Men A
Cross
SLIHGSBY CIO
S DECLARED 10
BE GHANGLIN6
Hy H. 1). JACOBS
Press Stafl Correspondent)
. ZZZjiS3r,.JS!33&.
I 'H to I lulit Itenr Admiral .In--pli Stiutiss, t-hk-f of tho tnirvmi ir oriliiiinc ; Itoar Athninil W. S. Ucnsoii, bureau
of imiiil iiperntioiis; Captain Hhllry .Mcl.csui, judge ndroc.tle Kcncml; Civil Engineer A. Ij. l'ai-sons, liuieau of
jmtU mid ilockw; AHNlslnnt Secretary of the Xnvy FrnnkUn I. Roosevelt; Paynmster General Samuel Me
Cottuii; Secretary of tlie Xm jr .Tosephus Dnnicls; Commamler 1). W. AVnrtsbaugh, aide to thcrseci'ctar-; Itenr
Admiral 1). W. Taylor, chief bureau of construction and repairs; Itear Adiuli-tl 15. S. GriWn, bureau of
steam cncltKvritiK; Hear Admiral Vlt tor lllue, bureau of iinigittlun, and Surgeon General V. C. Uralstetl,
tiiirejiu of Mcdirino and Surgery.
These nival olllclulh mcot weekly lu wlnt Is knern ns the council of the secretary of the navy, to consider
i.iunl plans. All of them except tho secretary and assistant, Mr. Hoosovelt.havo technical education and training.
GOING TO RAISE
HERDOFOURHAMSl?
L. S. TLUWILLIGKK
GIVi: HIS ATTKXTION TO HAIS
IXG OF 1'IXK llliOODCD STOCK
CATTI.U
tho fleet, "Infanu" who havo plunged
their notes into the sea without cwe
mony or publicity
Tho shipyards from whence they
came are turning out sister ships as.
fust ns men can put metal together. I
No time Is being wasted veneering the,
officers' cabins In mahogany or to put-i
ting thu painter's touch on the hull I
CLOTHING NEEDED
FOR CLUB WORK
IF.CIi:s TO and aupcnstructme
craft nro Just plain ugly, but they
These newest I ALL GARMENTS HERETOFORE
ombody all tho latest kinds of effi
ciency for which naval constructors
havo the expcrlenco of tho war to
thank.
The make-up of theso fleet "babies";
nothcr Klamath county rancher must remain a mystery until after tho I
war. In tie meantime tney are tno.
secret pride of tho Urltlsh navy.
DE-
I GIVEN PHILANTHROPIC
! PAITOIEXT HAVE IJEEN DIS-
TRIUUTED TO NEEDY PEOPLE
EERA
who has decided to spoclnltzo ln tho
breeding or thoroughbred cattlo Is
K. S. Terwllllger of Merrill Ho will
dovoto his attention to raising blooded
Durhums.
Terwllllger has Just sold COO head
of lino beef cnttlo to J. C. Mitchell.
Theso cattlo havo been feeding ln tho
Shasta Valloy, and It is Mitchell's in
tention to ship tho stock to his ranch h
at Willows, Colusa county, California. i
This salo prnctlcally cleaned up alt . LITTLE
of Tcrwllllger's cattlo with tho ox-
ceptlon of his sixty head of uurnams,
one of tho finest herds of this variety
to bo found anywhere.
L
UNDERGO
OPERATIONS
E
NEW SHIPS FOR
BRITISH FLFET
Hao you any clothing you are
willing to give to persons in need?
If so, pleaso leave this at tho li
brary, and you will thereby earn tho
everlasting gratitudo of tho Woman's
Library Club. Its philanthropic de
partment is unablo to fill any more
requests for clothing owing to a lack
of garments.
Last fall and winter, many people
responded to tho call. As a result,
many men, women and children were
warmly clad through the winter. This
stock has all been given out, and
more is needed.
Now that summer approaches, and
j warm weather rniumout Is soon to be
.donned, this should bo an excellont
Mrs Llzzlo M Fitch underweut a time to take an Inventory of last
serious major operation at the hands jtiru uuus w ucimui.no ui tun uo
of Drs. Johnson aud Cathey today,
(United
EL PASO, Tex., March 13. Tho
expedition to enter Mexico in search
'of Villa is 3tlll awaiting the order to
start. Infantry, cavalry and engin
eers are bains rushed to different
' points on the border in special trains.
It is expectfed hero that tho Invasion
will start Tuesday. General Funstoa's
inGH EXGLISH COURT REVERSES determination to bo fully piepared for
RULING any eventuality may, however, force
a further delay.
i It Is reported that CarranzUta ofll-
jSnn Francisco Woman's Four Year cers have been having difficulty ln
j Fight to Obtain a Portion of British restraining some mutinous soldiers.
j who seek to Join Villa, feeling the
Estate for Child is Lost Her Story Lnlted States seek, to capture Mexico.
Six Americans arriving from Chihua
hua say Carranzatfflcers there threat?"
en to hang all "gringoes."
There is apprehension here lest
i the deplotion of the local garrison en-
'courages Mexicans to attack El Paso.
L'nlted Pi ess Service !As a re3U,t many AmerIcaDi nave
farmed.
LONDON. March 13-Teddy Slings- j A tomm Carranza offlcla, prealcU
by, the 5-year-old baby who has been that nil Mexico will oppose an Amer
niuch ln tho limelight owing to the lean invasion. It is feared by some
suit over his antecedents, was de- that if Carranza makes an agreement
clared a "changltng" today by tho with Washington regarding crossing
court of appeals. 'the line for bandits, he will be unable
This tribunal reversed tho lower to control his Ignorant soldiers,
court. It ruled that tho child is not Twelve thousand American troops
the legitimate offspring of Lieutenant 'arc being mobilized. It is expected
Charles Sllngsby and his wife, a San that tho first American invaders will
Francisco woman; but was a child detrain at Guzman, and the second de
substituted in tho hope of gaining attachment further south,
share of the vast SUngsby estate. . Washington officials have notified
Tbo child's mother has been fight-, Carranza Consul Gaviar here that the
ITF.MS COXCERXIXG PA-
TIEXTS IX HOSPITAL MRS L,
M. FITCH UNDERGOES AX OP
ERATIOX TODAY
ffW Of A. l!rn.. I
IPeh 'omciivo vu u
W f k""nt Mn- Alma Kuol.no
4- -v ,. Crcut Judgd Kuy.
"' torarrow morning. Jury
J2 beglunlng to arrive, and sub
" lvo beon served es nany wit
"" for both aides.
UwrWw u chlrgt- wUn inootlBf
" Kuebne December 20th, la bat-
ranch owned Jointly by Law-
tUu'niMr- Kuehne. .la this bat-
Ku'tW u,hne Rnd ner . Andrew
w' M Mr, and Mrs. Quy Huntsr.
Many shoU were fired, and Hunter
wns wounded, while Mrs. Kuohne re
relvod a wound causing her death, In
her dying statement she charged that
Lawrenco shot her, and the coroner's
Jury blamed the murder to.blmr1 MfT
and Mrs. Hunter nnd Lawrence stat
ed, however, that Mrs. Hunter fired
the fatal shot, fearing that Mrs.
Kuohne was trying to shoot Hunter.
W. II. A. Rennor will conduct the
defense. He will be assisted by W.
St. J. Wines from Springfield, Illinois.
In the prosecution, District Attorney
John Irwin will bo assisted by the law
Arm of ObaIU ft Manning.
Sho Is resting as well as can bo ex
pocted this afternoon, according to
roports from Blackburn hospital,
Mrs. Francos Williams wns oper
ated upon Saturday at Blackburn
hospital by Drs. Hamilton and Merry
man, and sho Is Improving nicely.
Miss Jardine, who underwent a sim
ilar operation a short tlmo ago, has
iccovered sufficiently to be removed
to her homo.
""" Ucorgo Morluo Is on the road to
fulled Press Sorvlco lecovcry. Recently he fell from, a
AHOAKD H. M. S. TORPEDO building In Lungoll Valley, and was
BOAT NO. 00, (somewhere in 4ho rUshed to tho hospital for attention.
North Sea), Mnrch 13. Visible proof w j, Wunccr 0f Algoma, who nar
tbnrthe British shipyards hnvo not row,y c8Cal,0li death a short time ago,
beon Idle since the war began,wns lwlian a inrB0 stouo dropped Into a
WITHOUT POMP, NAVY YARDS
ARE LAUNCHING XEW VESSELS
WHICH ARE MADE SERVICE
ABLE, XOT COMFORTABLE
used again, and what you can give
to help clothe othors less fortunate
than yourself.
i
SWEDES PLAX TO MAKE
SEA GOIXG TRAIX REALITY
aeon from the deck of this llttlo craft
today.
well 'ftT' which ho wns digging, is do
inc ns well as. can be expected. He
Steaming slowly past a long douuie j v08 Jn n precari0us condition when
lino of warships, observers aboard flrst taken (0 tUo hospital,
wore oblo to look upon a new typo of)
sen fighters, many typos, In fact, built
for war and not for looks, Theso ugly
colorod craft with mottled sides and
daubed plates, were the "babies" of
Oonornl Alext Kuropatkln has been
appointed commandor-ln-chlef of the
Russian armies In the northern front.
l'nlted I'ross Service
STOCKHOLM, Mnrch 13. Having
practically completed plans for a rail
toad car ferry sorvico between Goth
enburg, Sweden, and an English
North Seapott, presumably Imming
ham, tho Swedish board of trade Is
considering establishing a similar line
fiom Stockholm and Abo, Finland.
With the system In running order,
a cur, or even a train, might make the
mn from Vladivostok to Abo, cross
by boat from Abo to Stockholm, go by
rail from Stockholm to Gothenburg
travel again by ferry from Gothen
burg to England, and unload in the
latter country for tho flrst time. The
Was That Uie.CWldTWas theSon of
Lieutenant Slingsby of the. Eng
lish Army.
lng in the courts for recognition
her son for the past four years.
of.. Carranza government will be held re
sponsible for the 500 American Mor
mons Imperilled In Northern Mexico.
The house has passed the bill to re-.
vivo tho right of action on claims ag-i According to statistics Just issued,
grogatlng $500,000 for Southern 10,395 Irish emigrated in 1916, p
property seized during the Civil War, 'proximately half the number the prs-
amended to require proof of loyalty Itlous year. Only 25 per cent were
of claimants to the Union. 'of military age.
Beck Has Narrow Escape
From Death in the River
Otto Beck, telegraph operator for.se'ii i oiling over tho bedrock. TUs
the Southern Pacific, had an almost feavctin: were directed from the bank
miraculous escape from death In tuobovc, and Frank and Al McCarter
..,,. x reached tho body, which was at that
swirling waters of Link River yoster-' ,m. nt ,Maf . nrt A. . m,u -.
dny afternoon. As It Is, he Is now in ' jow wuere Beck had fallen in.
the hospital, badly battered and! Deals, the McOarters and 'Others
bruised by the rocks that line the carried tho bruised and apparently
bottom of this treacherous series 0fllfeleS3 fom from tho water- nd a
I doctor was summoned by telephone
rap from the California-Oregon power
Beck was Ashing at tho Intake of housa Resuscitation methods wsrs
of tho Keno Irrigation canal. As tho adopted with no delay, and as result
water was siut out or the canal, more Beck soon began to breaths' again,
water than usual was going over tho.nnd later consciousness returned,
wing dam, and Beck was caught lu ' When Beck fell ln the water kt '
i
Pj
'
nronosltlon is to run 10.500 ton boats abovr. directing others who waded
on the Anglo-Swedish line dally In' about ou tho bedrock Just below the
tbo current and whirled away. wore a coat and hip boots. Wns s
Mrs. Beck was on tho hank, and was rescued the boots and coat ware
saw her husband go Into tho water. 'gone, indicating that Beck, walls
Sli'j at once gave tho alarm, and Glen ! partly unconscious. Instinctively Mil
Boats. Al McCarter and others nearby od these off. or that they wsrs Jsrkse) '4j!
at onco took
spread the word
ormon all along
watched tho water from tho bank lying, although he Is stttly
j:
i u
If
S5y
VSr
5.
up tho search, and j from bis person by ths powerful ,. 'f$&
I of tho mishap to fish- rents. '.?'- .SrVy '$il$'2
ng the river. Men. At ho hospital 4e4s, jfyJim$frpl1'
rater from tho bank j lying, although 'he Is ,-iffefa A4 j
earhjllrectlon,
old mill site, and Inally the body was
is suffering from, his b'rsWiss
-- ."--" . "
be closely watcnea w
mania.
