p..
oefre It thom
f avt nmet Von the Yoty' bet oes-suwmi emse
It is as =Oak 6 part of the day a- - a n
breNkfst. 360. AD At ADY.
NO. 3610. NEAT=E:. FAR An WAMMn WASHINGTON, D. C.. TVSA, SETMEKBR 5, 1916. ONE CENT.
REEK PREMIER,
ALES' FRIEND, I
SEIZES CNTROL
Becoines Dictator of People.
Nation Yields to Entente.
"O ,e .emn-sem" .w. serva.e.)
LEdma Segt. i-The entrance of
Greece Ino the war Is only a matter
of days, her neutrality I a thing of the
Past. A new dictator has artsen. No
leuger her King, or Veniselos, her
d"iniat poptician. has any word
to my. Alexander Zaii, who holds the
Portfolio of prenler, has seised the reins
of power.
Greece baa surrendered utterly to the
uitbuatum of France and Great Brrltain
that her mane and telegraph be handed
over to allied supervision and that all
German and Austrain agents be
expelled from the country. Already
French and British offcials ae taking
over the control of the postal and wire
systema. ,
Unprecedented scene* are taking place
In the streets of Athena Citizens of
nations with which Greece is at peace
are being hunted down by armed de
tachments of foreign soldiers and locked
In the brigs of allied' warships. An
official of the Austrain legation was shot
while riding in his automobile by British
agents pursuing in another machine.
The aeisure of power by Zaimis Is one
of the greatest political coups accom
plished in years.
His entire hand has been played be
neath the takie and it is only now that
the nation Is awakening to the fact that
Its fate rests In his handa -
Zalmis holds the most complete power.
He can do what he will without Parlia
mentary questioning or public opinIon.
Par lament had been adjourned and
-letloti will aow be necessary before a
new Parliament can sit In.
FRENCH'CRUSH
FOE ON SOMME1
Push Lines Forward on 15
Mile Front-British Gain.
(y the intdmatteoal New. Serviie.)
London. E1. 4.-The Frerch today in
fleted anothe crushing defeat upon the
Germane north and south of the Somme.
In an all-day battle they pushed their
lines a conaMerable dIstance forward
on a fifteen-121e front from the outskirts
of Combles neth of the river to the vil-,
lags of Chila south of it.
Early toda Poch began to follow up
his success of yesteray. won between
Combles and the river. He extended his
line of attack to the area south of the
Somme along the southern edge of the
Franco-British salient. He was every
where sucesutul. Since the resumption
of the "big psh" yesterday the French
have taken 5.0 prisoners. Of these 2,700
were taken in today's fighting south of
the river.
Ripping the German front below the
river wide opeh, the French captured the
'Irst line trenehes on the Barleux Denle
court road, gained a firm foothold in the:
outskirts of the village of Berny and on
the northern edges of Denlecourt andI
captured all a Soyecourt village.
Further south they took the entire Ger
man 1Iret line position of the old Ger
man front between Verman-Doviller and
ChIll and captured the whole of the latter
village.
They moreover captured the eastern
Ilopes of strategically-Important 11111
tixt. -five and the western edges of the
Chaulnes Wood.
Thus they crushed In the whole south
ern arm of' the salient which German
commanders in Interviews with American
correspondents have described as the
"uglIest position an army could be placed:
In."
NO ACTION ON DANISH
TREATY THIS SESSION
Congress 1911 Adjourn Without Au
thorizig Purchase of Isles.
Senate ledders yesterday abandoned all
hope of ratifying at this session the
Danish treat providing for the purchase
of the DanIsWet Indies for S2,00000.
So many 4emplications have set In
that fears aw now felt the treaty will
ro the way Of three previous futile at
tempts by the United States to buy the
Island.
Senator Stoe. chairman of the Foreign
telatlons C040Ittee, said yesterday the
special ub c ittee designated to Inves
tigate the y would not have time
to complete Its work before adjournment
of Congres.
The subcomnltttee has before it a vast
heap of data relating to concessions by
the Danish government to private in
tereets In the islands. and several Sena
tore Insist tbf. this must be thoroughly
examined baeise action is taken.
The strong eposition developed in Den
mark agin&- the sale of the islands,
halting actio by the Rigatad, i another
reason for the poetponement of action
until next =sden.
Freneh Steraner and Two merwe.
Eio Ehige G.o Dewn.
London, Dept. 4.-The French steamshIp
Glen. Archinast, 461 tons, has been sunk
by a mine or tor'pedo. She hailed from
Two Norwegkn shipa, the Gotthard and
the Seteas, here been sunk.
DrvuW I ~in Allto lace.
Chattanooga,- Tenn.. Sept. t-Ed
Loekett. S drttP, was killed and seven
other driver. and rmechaniclana were
seriously infUg this afternoon when
Oive cars.Iedp at the local speedway
during a -f:be race.
Sept. 4.-William Rus
sell A - t Of the American
Horne- -Asaciation, Is deed of
apople 4 hW' heone here. In 1836 Mr.
Allen a stock farm that gave
bimn tional reputatd am
hemaaa,
V&a Scouts Witbi
40 Miles of Pershiug
(Interinatiemal News Servies.)
El Paso, Tex., Sept. 4.
Villa scouts have been sighted
near Namiquipa, forty miles
south of the' punitive expedi
tion advanced base at El Valle,
according to information re
ceived today by Juarez mili
tary authorities.
The main body of the bandit
ariny, numbering between 600
and 7oo men, is believed to
be advancing on Namiquipa.
where a small Carranza garri
son is stationed.
Gen. Jacinto Trevino, com
manding the northern military
zone from Chihuahua City, has
made the usual announcement
"that our troops are tenacious
ly pursuing the bandits and we
are confident they will be
brought to bay at once."
GUNMEN. WIN 8-HOUR
DAY AND WAGE OF $5
fpecial to The washington Herald
New York. Sept. 4.-Along with many
alarming reports concerning the de
pletion of natural resources comes the
startling announcement from the United
Mine Workers of America that this
country faces a marked shortage in gun
men.
It is explained they are guarding mu
nition plants, have joined the regular or
volunteer armies, have gone to fight in
the legions in Europe, or have joined the
revolutionary forces in Mexico. and 0
are not available for strike duty.
The United Mine Workers' statistician
also maintains that the high cost of gun
men is going still higher. Where under
the old conditions a "footloose and ad
venturous gunman" might be obtained
for 83 a day, it is pointed out, he now
charges 35 per eight-hour day for him abil
ity on the draw. A gunmen's union may
eventually be formed.
NEGRO CHARGED WITH
PITCHFORK MURDER
Howard Morris, alias Howard Moore,
alias "Big Boy." 21 years old, colored.
who hails from Anne Arundel County
Md.. was arrested last night at the
Perry Stables, 909 First street north
west, on a charge of murdering Jesse
Harris, a fellow stable employe, in the
Perry Stables the morning of January
15. 1916.
Harris was struck by Morris, the
police may, with a pitchtork handle.
from which be died several hours
ater in the Casualty Hospital. The
Lrrest was made by Sergt. Curry, Pre
3inct Detective Wright, and Policemen
Rone and McGrath. of the Sixth pre
!inct, half an hour after Morris ar
rived in the city and showed up at the
stable where he had assaulted Harris.
Morris, when taken into custody,
laid that he had just reached the city
and came directly to the stable where
-e had been employed. He told the
pollce that he did not know that Har
ris was dead nor that his blow had
cilled the man. Asked where he had
been for more than a year he said he
lad been with his wife in Maryland
PERSHING TALKS PLANS
FOR WITHDRAWING ARMY
IBy the International News "ervice.)
Deming, N. Mex.. Sept. 4.-Preliminary
plans for the withdrawal of the American
unitive expedition from Mexico were
liscussed here today by Gen. Pershing
and Brig. Gen. Adams. in command of
his post.
Gen. Pershing is making an inspection
)f the situation on this side of the border
ireparatory to coming out, it is under
stood.
CARRANZA ENVOY ON
MISSION TO EUROPE
Iy the International News Serviec.)
New York, Sept. 4.-Col. Alfredo Bre
rwda, former nrivate secretary to Gen.
'arranza. arrived here late today on
the Spanish steamer Montserrat from
Vera Cruz. He said he was going to
Spain and France on a diplomatic mis
Pion for the de facto covernment. the na
ture of it he declined to disclose.
H. A. Dunn. civil engineer of California,
Former superintendent of the Mexico City
[Aght and Power Company, who was
-eeently relea-od from jail. where he
said he was held 110 days on a charge
of having executed two of his employes.
was also on board.
RIDES DONKEY TO FILE
PAPERS AS, CANDIDATE
I t. The Wshingto Hld.
Atlantic City, N. J., Sept. 4.-After one
automobile in which William Haughey, a
magistrate, started from here at 1 o'clock
to file his papers as a Republican candi
late for Assembly had broken down three
limes, Haughey rode into the county seah
at 1 o'clock at night on a donkey.
The trip usually consumes kbout one
hour. Haughey borrowed his gallant
ste-i from a farmer after he had ruined
thr-e tires and run out of gasoline. He
regards his success in reaching the
county-seat at all as a happy omen.
BARREL FOR WARDROBE
ORDERED BY TRIBUNAL
Bpsdal to lh. Wmhtsa ermd.
New York, Sept. 4.-Frank Gillard, 17.
wore a soft hat. "combination" overalls
fromn his neck to his heels and rubber
boots three sizes too big when arraigned
before Magistrate Corrigan in the Mor
rinania Court.
Williatn Carroll. en employe of the
N'ew Haven, complained that Gulard's
wardrobe had been stolen from his locker
in the Mount Morris freight yards on
Priday.
"Give the clothes to Carroll," Magis
rate Corrigan ordered tersely.
'But tlet-that is all he has on," Your
Ftonor," stammered Patrolman Rabe,
who arrested GhIlar'd.
'Ued him back to the island im a ba.J
amL ths Msg=M.e. Grs..f
WLSON ON WAY
BACK TO CAPITAL
Formally Accepts Lincoln
Birthplace as Gift to- Nation.
(by the Internatieal News Ser"les,]
Hogdenville. Ky., Sept. 4.-The Presi
dent and Mrs. Wilson left for Washing
ton on their special train at 2:08 o'clock
this afternoon.
The Presidential party departed nis
diately after President Wilson had cob
eluded his speech aocepting Linooln'i
birthplace an a gift to the American peo
pie.
Five thousand people paid silent trib
ute to the memory of Lincoln while Pres
ident Wilson accepted the great eman
cipators birthplace.
Ex. Gov. Folk, of Missouri, made tih
first speech of the afternoon, followed bl
President Wilson.
President Wilson drew a wonderful pe
ture of the Great Ernancipator in him
short. carefully prepared speech. He e0n
cluded:
"1I have come here today, not to uttei
a eulogy on Lincoln; he stands In need
of none, but to endeavor to interpret the
meaning of this gift to the nation 01
the place of his birth and origin. In not
this an altar upon which we may forever
keep alive the vestal fire of democrac3
an upon a shrine at which some of the
deepest and most sacred hopes of man
kind may from age to age be rekindled?
For these hopes must constantly be re
kindled, and only those who live car
rekindle them. The only stuff that can
retain the life-giving heat Is the stufi
of living hearts. And the hopes of man
kind cannot be kept alive by words mere
ly. by constitutione and doctrines of
right and codes of liberty.
"The object of democracy in to trans
mute these Into the life and action of
society, the self-denial and self-sacrifice
of heroic men and women willing tc
make their lives an embodiment of righ1
and service and enlightened purpose. The
commands of democracy are as impera
tive as its previleges and opportunities
are wide and generous. Its compulsion
is upon us. It will be great and lift
a great light for the guidance of the
nations only if we are great and -carry
that light high for the guidance of our
own feet.
"We are not worthy to stand here un
less we ourselves be in deed and In
truth real democrats and servants of
mankind, ready to give our very lives for
the freedom and justice and spiritual ex
altation of the great nation which shelt
ers and nurtures us."
THOUSANDS SEE
BENNING RACES
I. C. Barber, in "Eye See
Bee," Wins 15-Mile Contest.
Thousands of speed fans at the auto
mobile races at Benning track yesterday
aaw I. C. Barber in William Weightman's
"Eye See Bee" win the fifteen-mile race
over eight competitors, the principal one
being Joe' Dickinson, of Newark, in his
Stutz.
Dickinson. at the end of the fifteenth
lap, was just 14 4-5 seconds behind Bar
ber. This was less than a second a mile
difference in their time.
Dickinson holds the world's record. on
mile and half-mile tracks. Yesterday. It
was said, was the first time he had ever
Ie1n beaten on a small track. He had
th advantagn in the getaway and led the
race for the first mile and a quarter.
Barber then passed him and retained a
slight advantage. The record time for the
day was made In this race when Barber
mnaIe a mile in 59 seconds on the fifth lap.
Barber's time for the fifteen miles
was 16 minutes and 48 3-5 seconds. Oick
inson's time was 17 minutes and 32-5 sec
onds.
On the next event, as if to get even,
the Stutz walked away from the "Eye
See Bee" In the start and gave It the
dust for five miles. This was a match
event between the two cars and was
the second feature of the program. Bar
ber gained on Dickinson on the curves,
hardly slowing down for them and the
Stutz had the advantage on the straight
stretches.
The time for the five miles was: Stutz,
5 minutes and 29 1-5 seconds; "Eye See
Bee." 5 minutes and 30 2-4 seconds. There
was but 1 and 1-5 seconds difference be
tween the two cars when they came under
the rope on the final lap and this ratic
was about the same for the entire race.
There were two motorcycle events and
six automobile events on the program.
CONTINUED ON PAGE NINIEL
GET LUNCH-TIME DIVORCES.
Store Girls Induce Ceurt to Hoeld
Midday esalions.
Denver. Col., Sept. 4.--A lunch-time di
vorce session has been ordered in the
County Court to accomodate departmeni
store girls, whose attorneys explained
their jobs would be jeopardized unless
they could have a hearing at that hour.
Mrs. Grace G. East almost lost her
place in her determination to get a di
vorce from George East. Just before hei
case was called her employer telephoned
that unless she was at*her work by 12:31
she would find another .woman there.
DYING AF!TER LONG FAST.
67 Days mince Physieian Han 'laten
Food-Delir'ie.s Now.
Younstown, Ohio, Sept. 4.-Toda)
mnarks the sixty-seventh daf since Dr
H. G. Huffman, occulint. of thin city, has
partaken of food. Dr. Huffman in now ir
a "nature cure" sasiatorium in a critica
condition.
Hie wan delirious yesterday and unable
to sleep. He is reduced to a mere skele
ton. Uile hope is entertained for his
recover3 .
GIBL GEtB LOT AS EEWARD.
She Found Valuable Diassend Losi
by R4eel Estate a,.
Cincinnati, Ohio, Sept. 4.-Beatricr
Bunning. 14 years old, of South Fori
Thomas, Ky., has been presented with a
lot 1j0 by 150 feet by Blairl P. Wilson, of
Huntington, W. Va., who in president oi
a real estate company.
Beatrice wan blackberry pickin wher
she found what she thought wan a pleca
of glass. She saw Wilson inspectina
some grading and showed the "glas" tc
him. The instant Wilson saw the "glasan
he felt his tie. He found his diskasai
===i. 6..alus am W..e-a
Wilm BMWte L"W
Tim Cartoe Depict
(y Iatsmiatieail News serese)
Hodgenaville, Ky, Sept. 4.
-At the Lincoln celebration
-here today a lanky moun
taineer, after gazing refective
ly at the President for some
time, remarked:
. "Well, you're a hell of a lot
better lookin' than those car
toonists make you."
Both the President and Mrs.
Wilson joined in the general
laugh.
GOMPERS SCORES
HUGHES; PRAISES
WILSON'S REGIME
Intjmates G. 0. P. Chief Is
Foe of Labor.
(By the Internatieui New. Servee,]
Lewiston. Me.. Sept. 4-Samuel Gom
pers. president of the American Fed.
eration of Labor. in a Labor Day ad
dress here this afternoon. served notice
on the natior, that organied labol
would fight to the last to prevent law
compelling Federal investigation int
labor difficulties before strikes are
called.
Right on top of the address of Presi
dent Wilson to Congress that resulted
in the law that prevented the general
railway strike, Gompers picked out a
portion of the President's original pro
gram for preventive strike legislation
and, declared that it, in any forn
would mean labor's slavery.
Gompers also declared for a world
federation of labor, bitterly denounced
the Republican party and Charles K
Hughes, and held up the Democratic
party and President Wilson as the only
true political friend of labor. He said
labor's slogan is "to reward political
friends and defeat enemies." Gompera
also declared the A F of L. had been
instrumental in getting the Wilson ad
ministration to recognise Carranza am
head of the Mexican government. and
in preventing armed intervention.
Concerning the proposal that Con
gress amend the present mediation
statute so as to provide that "a full
publi investigation of the merits of
eael, sash dispute shall be intuted
and completed before a stt4ka or lock
out may lawfully be attempted," Gom
pers said:
"Whenever compulsory arbitration in
any of its phases, even in that diluted
form 'compulsory inyestigation,' ham
been advocated, the organized labor
movement has constantly and unre
servedly opposed their adoption. Every
CONTIN-ZED ON PAGE THREE.
MEXICO MUST PLEOGE
SAFETY TO AMERICANS
Lansing Tells Commissioners
Guarantees Are Expected.
By STUART GODWt1I.
(InternatIeial News service.)
New York. Sept. 4.-Secretary of State
Lansing this afternoon told the Mexi
can-American commissioners in their
first formal session here that they must
guarantee personal and economic rights
of Americans who have interests in
Mexico before future controversy be
tween the two governments can be elim
in?.ted and cntire confidence restored.
Without such guarantees, he said, any
solution of the present troubles would
be temporary only and could not permit
American finance to help build up the
Mexican republic.
"It seems to me," said Mr. Lansing
"that if you would reach a complete
adjustment of the matters affecting our
relations which will satisfy the future
as well as the present, you cannot avoid
considering the personal rights and eco
nomic interests of Americans who have
found in Mexico a field for their energies,
"It is through a consideration of euci
subjects that the seeds of future con
troversy can be destroyed and entire con
fidence restored, so that the Mexicns
government and people may build on
the ruins of war and disorder a new and
more lasting prosperity than the republic
has ever known, a prosperity fdunded on
liberty and justice under a government
supported by the united will of a free
,eople."
ARMY POLICE QUELL
CAR STRIKE RIOTINI
El Paso Authtes Rout Strikebreak
ers, Placing Strikers Aboard.
(By the InternatiemaI News Serviee.)
El Paso, Tex., Sept. 4.-Military polico
quelled a serious street car strike rioi
in the heart of the city today by order
ing all strike breakers to leave street
cars and placing strikers aboard thenm
The riot broke out during a Lebor Day
paraoc, and for more than two hoursa
general fight wee in progress in halfa
dozen of the city's main streets
More thar' a score of persons were
seriously, but none., fatally, injured
Thousands of persong who were watch
ing the parade were caught in the melee
and many women and childrenr were
knocked dows and trampled.
The strikers. armied with staen ani
bottles, attacked the cars as they en
tered the main part of the city, All
Swindows were broken and persona were
hit with stones and flying glass,
Despairing of stopping tbe ~ttle, the
military police finally made 3estrike,
breakers leave the cars.-~ unios
men manned'them and mae etrip ti
the barns in taiam a eum
GREET VERICT
WITH 81 RIOT
Fight Fans Assault -Referee
Roche at Title Battle.
Colorado Springs, Cole., fept. .-Mds1
scenes of excitement that inluded a die
aster that has .he.ed and sadde=ed
Colorado springs, a rot tha involv*
cushion throwing and bottle heaving
and a bit of gun play, Freddie 'ei
mae a s=osenful aense- of his worli'
light-weight chamnia.hi against th4
hard-hitting Cherile White. of Chicago
this afternoon. Welsh received a typics
English referee's decision from Bill
Roche, of New York, his own handcuffre
ofetlal,
From a standpoint of sportnasobil
and considering the battle from an actua
fighting angle, a draw would have ben a
much fairer ruling.
Certainly it would have made a Is,
eided hit with the crowd that sat and
aweltered under a bright and burning
Weetern sun during the long afternool
of unexpected thrills. Technically th<
English boy had a slight shade on lov,
tape, but he was guilty of holding an
stalling throughout and this should havq
counted against him with Roche.
The afternoon started with the souti
bleachers on ,pikes Peak avenue fallinm
to the grond with a deafening crash
Four hundred persons dropped with th4
stand and over three score of them wes;
hurt, same of them so badly that thei
were ta.g to hospitals in ambulances
None was killed and tonight the doctor
say none will die. But the catastroph
will cost the hundred million dollta
club a bunch of money. It will sureli
prevent any proft and has spoiled every
thing connected with the match for thi
rich men of this town who put up theii
money to land Welsh and White here is
order to advertise their city.
The ight had a regular Wild Wes
climax in which Referee Roche playee
a leading and dangerous role. when th4
battler had been jumping about in ar
effort to get over a knock-out punch be
fore the last bell. When the gon
clanged Welsh smiled blndly and rusha
ever to Roche. He grabbed Billy by thq
right paw and the official then hew
aloft the starboard glove of the nexe
es a sign of victory. White teok one loni
look of hatred at Roche and walked
gloomily back toward his corner.
Part of the crowd of 6,00 that gathered
to view the pugilistic spectacle and paid
some W.000 for that privilege had pur
chased heavy cushions to make mort
cONTmIU ON PAGE GflBT.
JUNIOR CREW OF
POTOMAI8 WIN
Lands Feature Race from Vir
ginians in Big Regatta.
"Stick to the Virginia shore" were the
last words handed the Potomac junto1
eight-oard crew In its race yesterday
with the Virginia Boat Club. of Rich
mond, by Coach Hecox. By carrying oui
Instructions Coxswain Joseph B. Ralley
of the Red and White oarsmen, poloted
his boat a quarter of a length ahead ol
the "Dixie crew" after a gruelling one.
mile race In the feature event of th4
Middle States regatta, held on the Po.
to'nac River.
This lone victory by the Potomac oars
men of the seventeen events carded wai
well worth the trials and troubles thai
have worried the local regatta commit
tee during the past six weeks as thii
win and a victory by William E. Boryer
of the Analostan Boat Club. of this city
In the junior single sculls were the onl3
ones registered by local representatives
It was an Ideal regatta day, and th'
old Potomac was lined with river crafl
of all descriptions. The revenue cuttel
Apache patrolled the course and kep1
the yachts, motor boats and canoes tha
formed a lane from the Three Sistei
Islands to Thirtieth street, off the course
The boathouses along the District sid.
of the course were taxed with aquatic
fans, whre the grand stand at the finiat
and the Analostan Island took care ol
many of the 10000 persons that watchet
the cream of Eastern rowing athletes It
oompetition.
Winning this junior eight-oared ract
was a grand victory for the Potomat
oarsmen, as they just barely nosed oul
their worthy opponents from the Virginia
city. Coxswain Ralley showed good judg.
ment in "sticking to e Virginia shore.*
but by doing so he Ws compelled to pan
on the south side of the Apache, whici
lay at anchor almost in midstream.
By coming from behind and keeping
to a straight-away course the Potoma.
wnTNUED ON PAGE mGHT.
HEE'S A SUBMARINE Ca.
Catehes Eleven ish for Kittena
Daring Under-Water Veyage.
Paris, Tex.. Sept. 4.-T. I_ Randell. a
farmer living near here, owns the onl3
submarine cat in captivity. Her name ta
Brimstone. She has eight children. They
have eight appetites and seventy-twi
lives.
Randell also owns a private pond, stock
ed with game fish. To asuage her owr
and her family's hunger, today the ca'
went fishing. She crouched on shoe
until a fish swamn within reach, then dovn
Into the pond, caught the fish In hel
mouth and swam ashore. She caugh1
eleven in as hour.
BIG DR0? IN PLAGUE r-ASES.
NeRw "I eok Death Rat, Leweat slnce
. Duly IT.
New York, Sept. 4.-Thert were six
teen deaths fromn infantile paralysis ii
the last twenty-four hours, the low. s
~daily total since July 17. In nen
cases, too, there was a big drop, to
day's total being thirty-nine, the low
est since June 25, when there were buO
twenty--eIght.
Richmond. for the lrat tIme sine
the inception of the plague, was im
mune today, both feenv cases anm
deaths. Brooklyn rerge dow a stead:
decrease while the imiain Mau
hattan is stationary".~
St2,00 t. WNiga i~sm
Baltimore and Ohio, INg., ept.
ITickets valid for returu within 15 days
.Through traina of p for cars nn
coaches, with luncheom car from Phila.
delphia via Lehigh VafI,. bera
jstop-overa returning. ezear
s-e at as and Oat. .Aw
I. B3.h.M .f caw
London. Sept. 4.-'King Per
dn==, of Bulgaria," says a
wireless dispatch from Zurich,
"sleeps in a cellar to avoid
danger from allied airmen
belonging to the Saloniki
armuties."
The dispatch adds that the
King's alleged fear "is similar
to the cowardice he displayed
in the Balkan war of 1912-i3.
when he earned the contempt
of his staff."
The cellar which forms the
King's present alleged hiding
place is said to be luxuriously
furnished.
It has a ceiling sof steel
plates which are bomb-proof.
Telegraph Tips
Lake Geneva. WI.. Sept. 4.-Candy has
been barred from the National service
School Camp. where 150 women are re
Ceiving military instruction, in an oficial
ruling. More than a hundred pounds has
been returned to its senders. The women
have asked for a camp manicure and hair
dresser.
Sisterville, W. Va.. Sept. 4-Striking at
a bee with one hand. Foster Spicer lost
cntrol of the steering wheel of his auto
mobile and the car went over a fifteen
foot embankment.
Carmichaels, Sept. 4.-Mrs. Paul Hatha
way, 36 years, of this place. was drowned1
near here yesterday while trying to rescue
her daughter. Pauline, 17. from drowning.
A neighbor rescued the girl and later re
covered her mother's body.
Jackson, Miss., Sept. 4.-A bolt of light
ning struck a baseball diamond at the
State mobilisation camp here. Corl.
Charles Davis. who was pitching, was
stunned and unconscious for half an
hour. Four hundred spectators were ter
rifled. A great patch of earth near the
pitcher's box was torn up by the stroke.
Norfolk. Va., Sept. 4.-The battlsshipsl
Pennsylvania and Oklahsma. Ameica's
two greatest fghtig hips, will open fire
Tuesday on the sunken hulk of the old
battleship San Marcos. formerly the
Texas, which lies submerged in Chesa
peake Bay. Only a portion of her deck
and superstructure are visible.
Trenton. N. J., Sept. 4.-George M. Cole.
the 6-year-old son of John Cole. is dead
from blood poisoning, which folowed a
scratch that he suffered on his leg tea
days ago.
7 *St. 4.-M7 Bube, a
peoty brunette, I tear old, mu
stricken. fell over. gasping,
of a young man with w
walking on South Center e
day. The girl died in the
which was conveying her to
An obstruction of the heart r
death.
Adams, Mass.. Sept. 4-Toys sent by
mall from New York are believed to have
carried Infantile paralysis germs which
affileted and then killed Charlotte Cosby.
8 years old.
Ossining. N. Y., Sept. 4-Private rooms.
without bath. are now available at Sing
Sing. Only L446 prisoners. the smallest
number In years. makes this possible.
New York. Sept. 4.-After being arrest
ed for burglary Francis P. Ryan took
the officers who made the arrest to the
police station in a taxicab he had wait
ing to carry away his booty.
('hicago. Sept. 4.-The United Spanishl
War Veterans opened their thirteenth
annual encampment here today with a
street parade.
New York. Sept. 4-Forty-six passen
gers were taken from the Ward liner
Monterey upon her arrival here today
from Vera Crux because of fears that
they had become infected with cholera
In the Mexican city.
New York, Sept. 4.-The New Jersey
Audubon Society. at Demarest. N. J.,
Issued an appeal that steps be taken to
save the lives of swallows. chimney's
swifts, the phodbe a.d king birds and
others which are known as fly catchers.
as a means of aiding in checking the
epidemic of infantile paralysis.
New York. Sept. 4-Examination of the
submarine G-4 at the New York Navy
Yard will be made following a series of
tests at sea. These were made with a
Sperry gyroscope aboard the subsea
craft.
New York, Sept. 4.-Capt. Augustin
Parla. of the aviation corps of the
Cuban army. has reported to the Third
Branch Detective Bureau that he had
been robbed of eighteen told rpedals
while en route fromn Itavana on board
the steamship Morro Castle, of the
Ward line, which arrived August y7.
New York, Sept. 4.-Russell Sherwood.
14 years old, of Paterson. N. J., was
hanged when he slipped In getting down
from a wagon and the reins caught
about his neck, holding him suspended
off the floor. His father, wondering why
he did not return, went to the barn to
find him dead.
New York, Sept. 4.-Prightened by the
blast of an automobile horn two white
horses harnesed to an empty white
hearse ran awa -, wrecked the hearse.
Injured themselves and tied up traffic on
Queensboro Bridge for an hour.
New York, Sept. 4.-Search is being
made for an unidentified automobile
driver who ran down 10-year-old Helen
Papes, of Brooklyn. and eecapqd by
putting on full speed in the direction of
the "Williamaburg Bridge.
New York. Sept. 4-The police are
looking for a short, clean shaven man,
wearing a gray suit and dark esp. who
attacked Miss Mary OHara, of North
Arlington. N. J.. on Saturday night.
Whilie she was struggling with him an
automobile carne along and he fled.
New York. Sept. 4.--From Philip J.
Roosevelt, nephbew of Theodore Roosevelt,
camne the first contribution to the Robert
Bacon Senatorial leangue. It was a
army check for $2M40. made payable to
Mr. Roosev-lt for a month's service in
Ihe First Aero Compiany, in the Federal
service'
Sueday outeg:4 tesy ad Ret.,., 62.
J ~~ore ands Ohio, 8.15 a. mn.. Sunday,
PLAN TO SETTLE
TRAiN DISPUTE
OUT OF C
Roads and Employes to Op
Negotiations for Agrem.
From a source coss to the " WVON
brotherboods. it was learned pwerW.
that both the railroads and the 7eothem
hoods are eosidertog a e--o= em..
ing their diferences without roesumo 0
the courts.
It was stated that neith'er ee donged
to renew the national crisis averted W
legIslative action, and that ne
are being opened for the making of a es
tract. called a schedule agreement. wW
will bind both interests for a term 4
rear.
The brotherhoods reallised It was md.
that If the railroads contested the so
of Congress establishing the eight-hoer
work day for them. which Increases tb
wages, they may lose the wage behe
and the fight over compensation would
have to be made over again.
The railroads, on the other hand. It wa
stated. appreciate that if they resist the
law they probably will lose the prospee.
tive increase of freight rates promi
them by President Wilson. In addmi
they would have to face anew a 9W
with the brotherhoods.
The brotherhoods. it was said, wet*
therefore inclined to revise their podid
somewhat and take no action to have the
eight-hour day statute declared unesa
stitutional unless negotiations with the
brotherhoods for an understanding fall.
The brotherhoods will be expected to
recede pbrmanently froin their demand
for punitive oertime. which was fixed
by them at time and a half This demand
%as abandoned temporarily when Presi
dent Wilson intevened In the dipsmant
The brotherhoods reserved the right to
renew it later.
In the opinion of competent studtsm
of the question, the railroads would @a
the best of the 'bargain" if an ' a
of freight rates were granted tesm Ie
consideration of their putting into effect
the eight-hour day. An Increase of & per
rent in rates. it was said, would &mount
to considerable more than the increased
cost of operating under the eight-beer
day law.
The raliroads were said to be enidm
to get thre.* Congress some of the ether
CON'IED ON PACE TERa.
LABOR MEN LAUD
EIGHT-HOUR LAW
AsetLon HenA* and Lair
Danger to Country.
a leade-s of labor at thei: head
rs here yesterday called it the
v tet lIAbor )ay in hiptory t'oming
contemporaneously with the setuement.
temporarily, at least, of the greatest In
duetrial demand that ever threatened the
nation, national leaders of labor de
clared that this Labor Day heralds the
coming of increased power for labor.
With the eight-hour day for railway
operative employes recognised and legal
Ized by Congress and the administration.
labor leaders say their vIctory, %on with
fr. a comparatively few days. is the first
positive step toward granting a national
eight-hour work day. Determined, con
tinued fights are now being planned for
other legislation for an eight-hour day.
With the absence of Samuel Gompers,
president of the American Federation of
Labor, who made an address in Lewis
ton. Me. there was no official labor
event in Washington yesterday. Mem
bers of local unions attAded outings.
planning to pass the entire day at them.
Frank Morrison. secretary of the
American Federation of Iabor. acted as
spokesman for labor b, iuing a state
ment summarizing labor's advancement
during the past year.
"It is impossible to recorrl fundamental
gains during the year because of organ
ised labor's agitation. or to individualise
probable gains during the coming year."
he said.
"The best we (an do Is to observe ten
dencies. Prominent among these is the
workers' seizure of the cry fo- 'pripard
ness' to emphas.ize a danger in industry
mo-re dangerous than battlfields
"Government statistics shou that 30.fen
men are annually killed and 7000 are
annually injured.
"TI has been stated that there are more
than 3.000.101 cases of illness annuaflv
among industri:i! oorkers. caused mainly
b long hnur. Inn etes. dt. bad air.
fumes. smrioke. om.o.s And similar
'ausee. and that thrroi, t phid fewer
and malaria alone ia.. an-wIlly As
lost to this nation-etnough to equip the
largest army and navy in the world, and
then have a balan'-e sufficin. to pay the
1tution cf eery Americtn I-, now in
coll'ge.
"Informistion, and retports re-eied hr
the A. F. of I. clarly demonstrate the
fact that a 'labor famine' exists atty
where tnploye', still demand long house
at low wages, and where they ignose ihe
living standards -t by the workse.
-tbabo, has -u -s:si fought thf
e-ndit ls in the part cear, and shal o.
tain notre vs-sults in the sear to come.
" Our big;;et present work us to eurb
immigration and obtain more freedom of
action."
SUSPECTr NOT LIEUT. FAY.
Prisemee at Certuth. Kima.. Leok
Nothing- like His Phoogaphe
Corinth. MIss., Sept. 4.--A peb
held here on suspicion that he
Ieut, Robert Ftay, the convicted
man bomb plotter. who escaped '
Atlanta penitentiary, proved not ts e
Pay when prison offIcials attemapted he
ideetify him.
Photographs of the prisoner quat h
Atlanta were returnsd today with
stateoment that they leoed nething &s
Fay.
T'hs'etened Tie-UVp M oSwM
1y Detuob Neeesi Osmdeoem.
Chitago. Sept. 4.-Shippeesh
out the country may expeet a
shortage for a few days on asd
of the recent threatened 100e M
tranaportatis scheduled for today, es
cordling to vaflead oelsala.
Nesarly oil faciories and many e
dealers leaded all cut-plus cars he
anticipation of the strike and It wiN a.
quir-e two or three days to beM '
