THE WEATHER FORECAST. '
Generally fair to-day and to-morrow
moderate aouth winds.
HighHt-temptraturc yeitertlay, 73; lowest, 5I.
Detalled'Keatritr, mall and marine report on page J,
IT SHINES FOB, ALL
VOL. LXXXIV. NO. 5.
NEW YORK, TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 5, 1916. CopirleM,!!)!. fcy the Sim Printing ami Publhhtng Association.
ONE CENT
In (Ireeter New York,
Jersey City and Newark.
ULcwriesa
TWO t'KNTa.
FRENCH STORM
5 MORE TOWNS
ON SOMME LINE
JRWk Soyecourt, Chilly
!in4 Part of Vermando
tillers Stretch Front.
$000 GERMANS MADE
PRISONERS IN 2 DAYS
Joffrc's Forces Fight Way
to Trenches East of
Le Forest.
BRITISH GAIN NORTH
OF FALFEMONT FARM
Allies Aim to Force Teutons
to Spread Forces Berlin
Admits Strategic Loss.
Park, Sept. 4. French forces have
driven hack the Germans atlll further
on the Somme front, following up the
allied gains of yesterday. In terrific
lighting that still rage they have
stormed the villages of Soyecourt and
Chilly, and part of Vermnndovlllcrs,
Berny and Dentccourt. They also
he pained other f.ermnn isnsltions
along a front of twelve and one-half
miles. The British also have gamed
.jjuiotat .m.mj
, . ,
jne new bubck wmi which im-,
Allies ushered In the third month of ,
the great Somme battle has spread
north and south of the previous
Somme front for distances totalling ' Promise made by the bride from the
, . . . i u i promUe made b the bridtaroom.
rlghtern miles, making the picseul, f ..., ,, ;UW)U.d b. ,he con.
Somme front on which fighting goes entioii and later by the various dioceses
on constantly upward of forty miles. J:,."1 bfr.0,n? th' ,hc church.
, . . ; , Ihide arU bridegroom will then ptom.ie
Thus far the two daja Hunting has In Identical lan-iuxo to "love, honor and
rained the Allies over .00 Herman 1 lep" each tne other and neltlier will
, promise to obey,
prisoners nn.l many guns. , a minority report Is in favor of omitting
To-day's principal French gains were tha words "as Isaac ami Kehecca lived
niJe at the southern extremity of what faithfully together." and also the state
hit been the Soavtie front Tltc village 'n. '", man-late "Is commended of
. . . . . , . . . . sl- ' a"' ,n e honorable among all men"
Bf Soyecourt Is about two miles soul.i , ,, , ttoriI, ,, ,arra1. wna ..,.
if KMrcti. formcrl t..e ru'itVi-t fx- Cltutcd In the time of man's Innoorncy."
trimlty, and Vermindovlllers is south of T'.w pledge made with the ring service,
(.,,. The Prcn i it ick. 1 h voiu , "v,'," M my worldly goods thee en
sjje.ourt. Thetrcn I .U..H.K. 1 r j ouj , w n0 ,w ,.,,,,, )f ,h). (.om.
Virmandovlllera all the way south to'tnlltce's report It accepted.
Cluulnes. j Radical changes are vro.'osed In the
I burial r.d baptismal services and In the
Pnah Jtn t to Hrasjnionl. j r.rran jemcnts of vatlou pr.t.tere and
At tv northern Rr.tlrh end of the
line thr attacks were pushed still furtae
'flrth n Tleaomnnt. arcnrdlnr to the
Isrman official statement telegraphed
We lleancourt has been the northo.n ,
Mtreaiity or tne ngnting area. ms
tres of constant fighting now takes In.
toufhly. nearly a eetenth of the whole .
... . . .. .. I
totem front from the sea to Stvltser-,
and.
Peslrtss the succsses at the southern
md of the old line the French, w ho yester- 1
y took the vlllane of Ie Forest oppo-
tie Maurepas, fought their way forward I
n-oay ann captured uermnn trencnesj.tr.nn it. ne -it,... .. , on.pieie.
'.ist o 'the village. At about the same ( s)a Correspondenl.
me pie Br Ish. who took Olnchy nn.l n..nnt,i t, , .
wrt of oulllemont. advanced north of aerfi"We '"i"t'. lo Tut S! t
"alfemont farm. The 1lrlt!e.lt are still I.o.vttoN. Sept. 4 -The correspondent
trivlng mlahtily to push back the Or- of the Post at Pftrograd telegraphs nn
msns opposed to them, and the heavy ar-
t ,lerv Is hacking them up.
'tont of nearly forty miles to-night the' "We o-e on the eve of the greatest
iea y guns of both sides are keeping event In the hlstoiy of the e.ist no less
,i sn Inte.sant bombardment, hurling n matter tluiti the settlement of the
M'rillv toi rents of shells Into the near eastern question, which has vexed
fnrhe. and behind the trenches of the (the world ever since the fall of the By-'
.... ,..mk "uir- iriiHiiiriidi .-.uiiini'-
enemy
x llrllllanl trhlrirmrnl,
For neailt two weeks there have been
" .
eoa onal reiwirts of a tremendous
Krench artillery fire being directed upon
'Je Gfrmar. Ilnea from Barleux to Chaul-
.....in onn guuaini n umcnnt
! 'xtent'on of the French ephere that
it" m.ule tn-day
,.
n-day The I-rench shells
"ii worked havoc with the German
d.fericf s but the t Mage, of Soyecourt
' still a strong defensive position,
Tie Hormlnn of Soyecourt Is de
Tb.il as one of the most brilliant
"nieve'nents of the French army. They
ill to a.rend eoniarhl sii.i.e frr m
c - pos'tlon, In front n'lleriev lie and
rLMJ'hM
tv . ......... .i-i-L .i . l ..
: " .V,V: ":."..
M,... i,.iki ,r
Mfnc
Th nigh the village has been almost
rwd to a mere hummock of broken
'one and brick by constant bombard
iMtit, the Germans had fortified It as
'hy hate every ruined tillage with a
"i.trhd of small forts and machlr.e gun
r-t'i" and dugouts.
. ...vwii .iiu uici nn) une ui nine
ynt the l-reach In the face of a terrible
Bie piling bayonet and bomb and some-
.J. .trmnJ5 ,tle rarman machine guns
ilV.i urnln" . tnems-elv-efi. The
ie ifr. t Vi"'P ' rrench
ie irretihiitiie.
vt a i t
xgainst rrrriar I ire. ,
The village of Vermandovlllers to the i
'-nitr, I. bisected by a road, and to thla
'"-i the Krench penetrated hy the same
iml o fierce and bloody fighting that
son Soyecourt, At the road they were
'M up partly by barbed wire entangle-1
f'nti that neither artillery fire nor
volunteers with wire cutters could nlerce I
id partly by a terrible fire from the
'Itrmin. that awant th. s-t,..,
? ihemselves intV their l.aif of the
.n. ina pna.i Tn.u
Ilia . ...i i . . .
aclng thcmselvea to take
yZL twelve and a half mil.
Uns from Harleux to Chaulnea French
trnnn i-j .i
- "iuhhi.ii IIIISIIIU Ulis.l.ai llltl.
''rman fire. Tlisy took here a trench,
there a line of shell holes the Hermans
turned Into a trench line, and at an-
"her point a fortified machine gun re-
vwbu
The British, on the northern half of1
ln Pomme front, held securely all thel
round they gained yesterday, lieating
txck Herman counter attacks on th
lr won ground In Ihe labyrinth of
e. 1 ""I ZT7Z -
Coafiaued en Third Pagt,
FIRE CAUSES PANIC
AT MIDLAND BEACH
Restaurant and Two Bunga
lows Burned and Cable's
Hotel Threatened.
About 10,000 pleasure seekers who
were at Midland Reach, Staten Uland,
last evening saw a fire that burned a
restaurant building and two frame
bungalows there and dl J20.000 worth
of damage. The Maze threatened at
on time to spread to Cable's Hotel, the
largest on the beach.
The tiro started at S o'clock from some
unascertained cause In the kitchen of
the boardwalk restaurant run by John
Harden In the two-story frame building
which Is owned by the Midland Beach
Realtr Company. The flames ate through
the wooden partition shutting off the
dining room and sent fifty patrons In a
panic to the street.
Then the fire kindled two adjoining
bungalows, occupied by the Kinney and
Nlcholosoii families. All the bungalow
occupants, who were having dinner at
the time, managed to get out safely. In
line with these structures was Cable's
Hotel, and the strong north wind began
driving the flames toward this.
Men and women who filled the dining
room and veranda of the hotel speedily
got away In the expectation that the
place would be set ablaze, but before
the fire could reach It the breeze died
down.
WIFE TO "KEEP," BUT
NOT "OBEY" HUSBAND
Episcopalian Commission Also
Materially Shortens Ton
Coinmnntlinents.
Citietno, Sept. t. The time honored
word "obey" V the wedding ceremony
seenw destined to tie driven from Its
nnal stromthuld.
In a printed report of a commission
of twenty-one computed of seven bishops.
"even priests and seven laymen silages
'Hons, for the revision of the ritual of the
n - otentant Ktile.cop.il Church. hle!i will
he submitted tn the general convention of
Ji'
the one word which dlffcrcntUtas the
i rone".
The
Co-nn-.3!'.'tiiten will be ahbrevl
:itP,i
The Third I'onimindnient will
te.ltl "Til, ll sll.llt not taka the tiama I
of ,'ori1 :'' "o'1 hi vain." The'
ZyWZZ TWtZ
Fourth. "Remember tln-t thou nhalt keep I
thy father and thy mother." The Ninth.
'Thou shnlt m: bnr f ilse wUnehs." The
Tenth. "Thou shall not tovet nnthlng
that Is thy neighbor s."
MnM of tnr ,,r o.tnmandments are
so brief they would need no fhange,
..
.ipnccTA V rrTJBTPB TXT o at tjtt
HUCS1AH ILMiliUH. IN HAl ell.
- -
follows about i toe entrance of the Hue.
'slan army Into the Ralkan flglitlngl
uiif.iiKll t k u ilia 1 1 1 (t ,
'znntlre empire. Yet its settlement Is I
merely stnennw or tne tremendous
worldwide (nines thai the Ocrmm nt-
'lnrk av"" motUrn civilization his ri'aed.
"The position H simple enough when
the facts behind the turmoil are known.
The Ralkan Peninsula to-day Is exactly
like a rot pit at the moment when
ii,.lv terrier lontna Into It The Tins.
VJy.AJI . . .T...i" t";..,7.!. " ul
Bill 11 in l ill .- ju.'t iir.n fj'rr i.iiu llir
..,,.. ,.,.,, ,h a .i ,...,i
Halksn rat pit. and there Is a good deal
of squeaking and rushing about to seeltttn a vigor that surprised men who
If possibly there Is not some way of
escape. There is no nouDt nere that tne
remit Is only a question of more or less
time.
t""" "'
,h', n"Ma" ,frrl(,r ',n,":,i,'d
"!?. hJ.. yf"..LV.:i rl'.efu".S
According to my Information, the
win inio .. . . . ....-
antee that the tesults ttlll be swift md
complete."
CHINESE ATTACK JAPANESE.
enr flash In Mongolia Resalla
Prom Secret Demands.
1tkm Uanl I Tne.rla V 1 A nnlh.r
clash neiween t;ntnese ami Japanese
troois Is officially report'd from Chao -
xiingtm, Monnolls, hihI has led to the
despatches of heavy Jat anrses reenfone-
nwts.
(t alleged that the Chinese attacked
, jai.anciie while tho Japanese wcro
advancing to mediate oeiwccu ('liineso
an( Mongolians.
- -
Washington. Sept. 4. Secret de-
maiuls. In addition to those .published to -
day In despatches from I ekln. are be
lug pressed nn (Mini by Japan at a r-
suit of the recent clash of Chinese and
and Japanese troops at Cheng ("lilalun.
It became known here In-nlKut that the
I situation Is much more serloua than has
t,.an I nH lin t erl . confidential renorts s.iv-
naan innirnien. I'liiiiiiirni ill I ii'i'uiin s.i i -
ing the unpublished demands threaten
the nulhorlly of China over the whole of
I view -he development
with real Htixltty, fearing another
. ...1.1.1. ...ii.. 1..
I ;ninS"Jaiiin-e iiri- llllllll ioiniii III-
volve the Interests of the I'nlted States,
.Upan hastened to send ;,ono soldiers to
the disturbed district and her Cabinet
announced that a satisfactory outcome
depended on China. Kxccpt for the jhis.
nihility of American Interference Japan
practically lias a ftee hand In China.
- -
TMRHl'till NI.KM'IMI CARS
New J- t j- ,' N'
Bouthern Ky. N, Y. Oflltt. lit Filth An.
jiv.
HUGHES CONDEMNS
EIGHT HOUR LAW
Sacrifice of Justice and Honor
for Expediency, He
Declares.
FOR LABOR ARBITRATION
Hecklers in Nashville Silenced
When 1,500 Arise and
Cheer Candidate.
Nashville. Tenn.. Sept. 4. Charles K.
Hughes In strong terms to-night con
demned the eight hour law passed by
Congress and signed by President Wil
son In the railroad crisis as a sacrifice
of Justice, fair dealing and honor for po
litical expediency. At the same time he
gave his own opinion of arbitration In
, . . H.h. 1.. . . I a
"Th ere Is no grievance with respect to'ratlve wherever possible, they have no
labor that cannot be settled by a lair,
.vitiHM nmlimtlnn of the facts
"We have In the past had to deal
frequently with the opposltloit of em
ployers to the principle of arbitration.
Sometimes they have refused to arbi
trate disputes. Public opinion has been
nualnst them. 1 stand here firmly for
the principle of arbitrating Industrial
disputes, -md I would not surrender It to
anybody In the country
t nm nniwtMil to being dictated to
either In tne execuntn uepniwncm . ...
Congress by any power on earth before
the facts ate known and In the absence
of facts.'
M,,, it, .in 5.000 oeisons were In Ry-
man's Hull when Republican State ( hair
man William Taylor attempted to call
the meeting to order.
"We arc assembled." Taylor began.
"Hurrah for Woodrowl" shouted a tolce
hi the gallery. For two minutes the
rininimii was unable to resume. The
audience seemed evenly divided between
ilm.e lio rame to cheer and those who
t.1.. n .i .if ..rft1 their noise l
producing t otters to the full. I
Ta lor finally succeeded In presenting I
f..ririe Jiiilre fleorio . Tillman m me
man who was to Introduce the Repnbll-I
can candidate. i
"We need a man who can guide us I
t,,r?u5!'..",r tr??L'""mr-I,rJliirer-lC I
'"'I1.. ""
"We've act him" came from the gal-
l.rc "111. name's Wilson.' (Cheers
I . . . muruerers. ine autnnritlcs nave been
"A man who believes In the rule of -J ' jmnwle die of other holdups on
reason." proceeded the chairman. j J0" Llnl" ro,,J '" ,hc ttv
t,.-.nt ni tu Cheer. I n"lv nine da " on Sundsy, A'l-
That's the'nrSSx
nnd again the audience ttaa In an u - ,nnt lhey ,,,, ,)efl ronfron,.d th, , ,
roar Tillman had more to sa5. but Ml)tt by tHQ ihwaynj.n al ectl.
for rite minutes the audience only saw ,n ,, w)ere nworlh n)ft hl, dMth
his Hps move. Finally theycaught I he ,. Sund,Vi T,1e une tJ,d
name "Hughe' as the nominee rose, detectltes that two underslxed joung fel-
1.3O0 of the cheering people before him wlth ,,raw htU ,., ow'r ulnchfd
rose also, while what seemed an equal r,CM )umvtii out of bru,h mtd(
number kept to their seats, silent but.th,m h(,M up fh.r hlndp and (ook ,,.
menacing. from hi- pockets. He added that the girl
R wss a tense moment when Hughes wtn hnli ,,,, n.nc,. i Mm lo
started to speak, but after that moment niake R fl(lll but h r.futed M1 wa,
the audience was Ills. Hughes was all )lf td-
snilles. Tile audlente waited in nonder- T)e descriptions of the robbers alven
. .
"I shall not soon forge the warmtn
of thU tociterous meeting, me iiuiinne.
lean.
"It has been a peculiarly grateful
thing to me" ln proeeeoed, slowly and
calmly, "to recclte the many courtesies j
at the hands of the good people here. ,
quite irgaruicfs 01 wieir pari rnin.i-
tlnns." '
Mr. Hughes uttered these last words I
with studied, aggravating deliberation,
It ttas not ttu.ll me necitieis n.tu c
lcted and It struck straight home. The
speaker waited to make sure that It hit
the mark. Half the crowd cheered and
.11 ...i, h..rd smiled lii the midst of
ti.ie Miw.ni. Una-lies smiled too Of !
sa," he went on. sun speasmg cainuy. ,
"of!' measured tones. to express
ansht but the highest respect for those
who do not agree with me.' Another
pause. Continued deej. silence on the
purl of the orgsnlzed band of organ-
,ed Interrupters.
Hughes drew back a step He loolced
1 de.'lared, "I simply desire to state what
I I think, why I think It. why 1 am hera
'and thrn let the American people Judge
, i -cording to their choice."
Half the assemblage was on Its feet
all he was the Uast perturbed the one 'mllgntetj thoroughfare arched over with employees would ne tienentea ny uie This Is the fourth time the Casino has 1 'iiade known authoritatively nere tn-ua.i. it was ruinated last i,.,i that a system
most at ease. "IT ar"1 appearance deserving Its l,il In case of disability the measure ,.,, bllrlleil m tno )at twenty-five The statement that the woman was a , t flashing the men op.i.nu.K t., trains
nickname, "loters Lane. Rut In most provided two-thirds regular pay and In vears , i t I I 1 it w is said that 1 alreadv been at tanged an I that in a
Audience tgsln nn Fret, of thfe Instances the narrators have de- esse of death liberal allowance Is made ' since the Peuuot House which w.i n ("'n,1"n "enl0"' ' ' mat vellouly r!im t time H ws would
. . . anvlhIn , mavl'"'"''l I've their names on the ground i for dependents. ouar er of a mMo north of Casino. l,n 'om.arl.on of her case with that of ,,,rt lnelr ,., ,
"I have no desire In antthlng I may 1V,,. ,, ,.i,, .,i,. .,.. ,i,. kiii i. th. ni,.r.i 'i"""." i a onn. noun in iin .ismu, .,.i.i u ..i... ,.-im i'v,n.. . . ..
lOW'aro tne Baner sou r.naoiB ilia iuili.. nlhl evoent In rollnlea deaerlhe.l lo
.U.l.... "t almnh tlwalre tn atnta m'hat
again In on Instant, Indeed, it seemed
more than half, us If sore of these heck
lers hsd been converted, or, what was
more probable, wanted to hide their
shame by hiding behind the more respec
table element. F.verybody who stood
up cheered, and cheered so loudly that
the hisses could not hate been heard If
they had been uttered. Hut there were
no lili.es.
; i. Hushes nlunaed Into Ills soeech
imu travelled with him since the start
of his campaign tour. He emphasized
his utterances with drives with his
clenched fist as he. tired volley after vol
ley at the Administration. He read th
ey at tne Auniinuirauon. ne reau i
, unsolicited editorial Indorsement of
Vork l.b.r journal which, declai
.u lore laoor touifia. wnicii urcinreu
,,. . r,',rm, fiom the Oov-
I ernoi ship to go upon tho Supreme Court
k.... i. .1. . i .v.,. the Last frUi.ri th.
cause had evei had In New York.
In Fax or of Arbitration.
I "I believe there la no grievance with
I resnect to labor." he said, laying down
. .1.. lot... .innul Ka aattlaa hv a
r. r rand rt exam nation or tne racts
, ('heers Interrupted him jaln. When
tt,... had subsided tie proceeded. "We
i,ave. In the fisst, had to deal frequently
opposition of employers to the
,,rm.,,le or arbitration, Sometimes they
i,...A raroaad to arhlirnie rilsnutes. Pub-
(. opinion has been agnlnsl them. I be-M., who was Dllworth's law partner at
I HrVC Hhd I stand here firmly for the. 1.1 Rroad street, called on Coroner Fl un
'.-iilnclple of arbltrutlug all Industrial dla. of The Rronx yesterday afternoon with
, wtnM , ,nrrender It to. Hairy K. Duff, next door neighbor of
1 ' vlK)d.. n tne country I believe that the Dllworths.on North Fulleitnn ave.
. V)ln.. tllHt right In thl country nue, Mnntclalr. Thy had a telegram
. rKi,t, vmt Is our great received by Duff from Dllworth's wife.
"' ' (',nv,rnment? What are ouri'hn . In Kansas City, It read:
I . , "Please arrange with Masons and Mr.
i, ' a. .... i.. .n..r.nf I Wttrls lo have the body dressed In dark
..." ' h ,n. ,fle ti.htinr .lowlv.
llp" : . ' "... . .
. ... . . . ,
i !'I"I:? "".,y'f " "K" ""'J Th.
' ' inata. f the relnn of
I .".'UXV 531
"r"' ' op!v' T""
1 1 rent men and women. We have edu-
rntlonal oppot tunltles on every side. We
hnvc an alert electorate, we have people
who understand expertly all the various
activities of our life from every possible
side.
"Now, then, I stand for two things,
first, for the principle of fair. Impartial,
thoroiiRh, candid arbitration, and, second,
for legislation on facts according to the
necessities of the case, and I am op-
Continuri oa Fourth Pag,
WOMAN'S STORY OF
MURDER BELIEYED
Miss McNiff Convinces Polite
and Coroner Footpads
Killed Dilworth.
NO TRACE OF SLAYERS
Lawyer Shot In Van Cortlandt
Died as Did Father and
Tlitee Uncles.
Miss Mary McNIffs story of the kilting
of Uwlght . Dilworth. the lawyer, with
whom she was motoring through the
darkness of the flolf Links road In Van
Cortlandt Park on 8unday night. Is be
lleved by the police and Coroner William
J. Flynn. Having checked up her nar-
uto'itt that Dilworth was murdered oy
two footpads, who, after firing three aim
less bullets, shot to kill when the man
leaped at them from his car.
No motive except robbery Is sus
pected. The fact that IS" In cash, a
Masonic ring, a watch and everything
else In Dllworlh's pockets were un
to clieJ, Is attributed to panic that un-
.,.,, . v, i. ..,.... ,,- v. . . u
that a man whom they had Intended only
In rob 1st ilrnd In the rottd. Miss Mr-
NUT says that as Dilworth fell his as-1
fa I Is nte turned and raced through the
brush In the direction of the park golf
course and Hroadway.
When they heard that ullworth's but caught sight of a skiff floating down
father and three uncles had died by us- stream. They couldn't resist the tempta
nfsjsf hutlon the Investigators were not ! tlon to swim out and get aboard. For
disposed to count the New York lawyer's several hours they fooled around In the
murder as anothpr chanter In u fend thut abandoned craft, but as thev had no
started on "the dark and bloody ground"
,of Kansas. Coincidences worth thinking,
nhfint va Y,it all itnria ta in. i.i
the four previous Dilworth murders prove
to hate been, as recounted by DwUht
11 worm s mother vesterdav In Kansas i
city,
ynt First lloldaa).
To their unqualified belief that high-
waymen Interested only In robbery hut I
I'fobably nerved to hysterical shooting
cocaine, were the Nan Cortlandt Park
... ...in win imii, iiihi ij .,ien .HU.IIll
ar , aci,K ,entl that the police i
r,-, d(1 mllr, w), th.n But f.r
as the .lescrlptlons go they are similar,
,xrpl that jn,, McNiff savs the men
,vho .ll0t uHWorlh woie caps one a
,,Jrk mv tl)B ol,,,r n,hter. "but not verv
l(Kh, Their only words were "Hold up
ur hands" and lo Miss McNiff "and
oo'il lietter keen nolat ton " Tli.i. .nnlin
'Kngllsh without foreign accent, she re-
members,
Victims Hide .as
Others have come to the police with
tales of being waylaid on the Coif Links i
road, which Is a narrow, macadamized,
The policeman nearest to the spot, 300
fe ,0th of Mo.holu Parkway. here
,)1)lV0rlll murd was (U,ne. Is a mile
. , a 0,cc llooth )t far fro;u
,. ,f ,,,, Many automobiles
., (.vlim, ... .i...
the meadow holes of the golf course an I
. avoj,. t1r huin. but It l little trave'lleil
... .
a park laoorer yesterday as "spooners,
Inspector Cray and Lieut, Jerry Mur
phy, acting head of the Rronx detertlto
bureau had fifteen detectives ranging
in,' im ,t jr.irinaj i..i eonir iihit til
the murderers, but they found nothing.
There were no footprints that could be
distinguished from others, no one In the
lonely region about the golf links road
or along Hrn.idtvay, Mosholu Parkway,
or other busy hlghwa" that edge or
traverse the park hsd seen any one act-
i i ,,. th. n.u -ei-i,! ,',n ... ....
, ncl0, manner" The best the delec
tlves could do was to stop and question
every vagjbondlsh looking person, Six
of these were taken to the police booth
in the course of the day, and then let
go after establishing alibis.
Calrh SI Snooaera.
Very early In the morning the police
. ' .
tnougnt tney nao a real eaten when they
''ame uihh, six men asleep In an auto
I mobile In the paik. Some wore caps.
i ne r siMiKesiii.tii exp a nen mat t nev
had hlied an automobile and a chauffeur
III Wwkrra on hatuiday afternoon to
take them on a day's tour "anywhere"
- for ItO. They said they had got to
Van Cortlandt Park In their wanderings
and the chauffeur refused to go any
fui titer until he had bad some sleep. So
they agreed to let him snooze for' two
i hours, and Joined him In his nap The
! channviir woke on and shim-ed tin.
tectltes the v. I ne trutn of their
story was otherwise established and they
went tneir way.
William H. Wurts of ll,ickeusack. N.
bl"e "ult I'hned In plain black cas-
kst snd sent In Fort Scott, Kan. byway
of Kunsas City, after having received
Masonic honors. Wire me night letter,
rare Cosies House, what Is done and
when tn expect Dwlght here. Ah he Is
gone, I will not come homo, but will
tvi.lt for him here. Thank you so much."
Body Taken tn Home,
The Coroner then Issued a penult nin.
tlie body was taken to Montclalr, where
tlieie will be a Mamnle service to-day,
I'ntll this telegram came It was thought
Hint Mis. Dilworth was on her way east
with her son. Klin said III Kansas City
jestcrilsy that she never heard of Mist
McNiff. Mr. Wurts told the Coroner
Coallnuetf oa Third Pagt.
t
i ..... . .. i.i.n... r.n......- .... .... i .ti- ..... .n .... ...v.. ....... , iii- , u u . inir,. ... i, nn (...... tin. nn i'.iiiiu I :i i" 11. Hie ill 1 1 , e, , in.. " ....... -iiin-ii it, .ii',' 1 1 1 1 , e v lira.
SUB WA Y AND L S TRIKE SEEMS SURE;
7,000 WORKERS ARE READY TO QUIZ
DEMANDS WILL BE REFUSED TO-DA Y
FOUR BOYS DROWN
IN RIVER; 2 RESCUED
Six Brooklyn Lads' Frolic
Near Hamilton Ferry Ends
in a Tragedy.
Out of a party of six Brooklyn tads
who went swimming yesterday In the
Kast Itlter near the Hamilton ferry and
climbed Into a derelict skiff four were
drowned and one was under water so
long he had to be taken to the Oouver
neur Hospital.
The youths who were drowned were
described by the uninjured survivor as
Albert SJostrom of 85 Fourth place,
Rrooklyn : Anthony Jacobson of 4
Fourth place, Kdward Rellly. of 61
Fourth place and Andrew Campbell of
US Fourth place. Raymond Wallace of
.Ml Clinton street, Rrooklyn, was the
youth who was removed to the hospital.
Charles Phillips of 7A Fourth place
ttas the sixth member of the party. He
(old the police of the Madison street
station in Manhattan that after he and
bis companions bad Jumped Into the Kast
lllver from a plsr near the ferry they
started to enlni around near the shore.
oars were unable to steer It. Finally the
tide began to carry them In I
tne uirection
of Pike and Montgomery streets In
Manhattan. As they neared the shore
tbo skiff lurched and sent all six Into the
(tn the deck of the steamer Rarone,
which was lying at Pier 31 on the Man
hattan side, Capt. Lawrence Aber was
standing at the time of the accident.
Aber told the police afterward that two I
of the rnunmm. Inrludln Phllllns
managed to strike out and clear the
foundering boat, but the other four were
swept underneath a barge. Although
three of the four bobbed to the surface
again they presently sank and were
drowned.
1 1 . . . , .. . . .,
He turnlnr on bis hark and ftnstlna
when
mlng the Phillips boy managed
cape the fate of his companions. A New
Haven Railroad tug, commanded by
".,lu'......m.a"n'. ."Z'lni Increased wane, which have been
(
" .'u "l'i. " 1
course and got near enough to Phillip
to throw a rope. The boy was drawn
up unharmed to the deck of the tugboat.
The other survivor, Wallace, who had
gone under more than once hut had con
tinued to swim until he was exhausted,
was rescued by Jacob Juno, a watch
man at Pier 39.
After the Phillips boy had been taken
to tne police station to tell of the tragedy
nn art,. i 10 . in inc nvim
River and the harbor squad was directed
to search for the bodies of t lie four vic
tims.
COMPENSATION BILL PASSES.
Mraanre nenrMtlng r.OO, noo I',
Workers (ion to President.
Washington, Hept 4. Congress ob
served Labor Day by both Houses, agree
ing to the conference report on the work
men's comiensatlon bill. The measure
now goes to the President for signature.
Senator Hoke Smith, (ieorgia, estl-
mated fully half a million Unvernment
pensatlon act ever devised." said Senator
I Smith. "It constitutes a complete recog-
, nltlon by the novernment of the prln-
I c,,iP ,hnt employers are bound to protect
their employees."
I
HUSBAND CAR CHOOSE HOME.
Rat thr Wife Wears the Trousers
In II. Coorl Rales.
Over the home the wife may be the
,,, ,,, ,0 m, nu,halul alone
the privilege of deciding where that
home shall he, according to an opinion
expressed yesterday In the (Sates avenue
court of Rrooklyn by Magistrate Dodd.
Mrs. !oretta Hchllemann of 282 Cooper
street had an altercation with her hus
band, lister, which resulted In the arrest
of the latter.
Called upon tn explain the difficulty he
had with his wife, Hchllemann said :
"Your Honor, my wife wants to live In
liidgrtvooil, and 1 want to live In Houth
l:mnkl)n, where I am employed."
"Tim right la with you." returned
Magistrate Dodd, "in this argument.
Your wife should be satisfied to make
her home wherever you decide. This is
one situation of family life where the
wife should not wear the trouera."
OSBORNE TURNS ON FOES.
Warden Begins Consplracj Xcllon,
.Valuing W. J. Cuntinlnas.
Thomas Molt Osboinc. warden of Slivs
Sing Piion, for the first time since his
acquittal of the ullulges Drought against
him In Weatchcster county, several
months ago. baa begun an action against
I his uiieucil nersecutors to prove a con-
sptiacj 10 nato nun uu.i.n imm "i"
In fie case which has been laid befoie
the Prosecuting Attorney of Washington
count i. he names "William J. Cum
iiiIiiks. wrecker of the Carnegie Tru.it
fiinipanj. and others," charging that of
iiclals bv threats and promises of re-
wards obtained false iifndavlts on which
ho whs Indicted hy a grand jury nt
White Plains, although he wne sub-
Htqiicntly exnneiated
HURLED FROM TROLLEY, DIES,
PnlliTiunn n Front Heat Thrnmi
hs Vehicle llonnds Corner.
Patrolman Robert R. R, Kuutze of ii7'.'
F.ast 171'th street, attached to the Adams
street police station In Rrookln, died
In llm Fordliam Hospital from com
pound fracture of the skull and In
ternal Injuiles as the result of being
thrown yesterday from a trolley car
pear lllsnirre place, In The Rronx,
Kuutze was seated on the front plat
form scat of the car when It took the
lllsuiei'e place curve at a high rate of
speed ami shot him off tn the ground In
Hie path of another car approaching
fiom the opposite direction. Ho wns
struck by the fcoud car and wsi rullcd
almost under the forward truck.
SHONTS WARNS
AND MAYOR
Interborough Head Reminds Mitchel That New York
City Will Be $120,000,000 Subway Partner in
Two Yeari? Protection Requested.
President Theodore P. Shonts of the
Interborough Rapid Transit Company
last night made public the following let
ter addressed to Governor Charles S.
Whitman and Mayor John Purro
Mitchel
"I desire to call our nttentlon to the
fact that at a mass meeting of the Amal
gamated Street Railroad Association hist
Friday night a resolution was adopted
authorizing the ottlcers of that organiza
tion to call a strike on the subway nnd
elevated lines of this city.
"The same resolution solicited the 'co
operation' of New York Railways Com
panv employees In enforcing the demands .
tl.ja a.tl.u.ut. ntiil lAVnteil llnM. Sttleh
in. ............ ...... ... . . ..
'cooperation1 of course means a sym
pathetic strike, and one of tho union
leaders openly atows a purpose to 'tie
up etery line between Yonkis nnd
Coney Island' If the demands upon the
Interborough ate nut granted. This its
spile of the fact that the officers of the
union HlKiied. August 7, an ugieemviit
with ou undet taken to sulmilt to
aibltartlon nil questions which might
atlse between the New York Ralltvats
,..iMU ...lu.un tii v.w v.it-it iffi lw-.i s i
Company and its einplo.tees In III
future.
Increase of gl.ano.oiln Year.
" meeting t to tie neiu neiween Air,,
Medley and "committee of Interborough
meeting l to be held between Mr,
employees to-morrow morning. At that
meeting the union' committee will doubt -
les. repeat its demand that the compan.t
cancel agreements recently entered Into
between itself and over s oot, of Its men
providing for a substantial Incrcaso n
wages and reduction In hours, costing
i In the airs-recite Il.I50.0rtt per annum
,, ,,e Interborough for the next two
"Employees of the Interlsirough Com- '"iVhefefor' conditions are now per
pany hate formed an organization of M , d.V(,,0I, ,,nier which a strike.
ther oun known as the Hmtherhood of n.vti,hi, violence and Intlmlda
Interborough Kmployees. In a recent . Sii,ie excessive charges upon
election to choo.e representatives em-
lowered to speak for the nien lii ilealliir
wj.. v.e c--n tnn r- ...
I 'The Individual agreements embody-
vr S.00.1 men, were the out-,
come of negotiations with these commit
tees elected to represent the employees.
"It Is evident that the union mnccrs
are now determined to bring about a
strike In an effort to secure domination
for the union and a minority of em
ployees over the S.noii or more men who
hate Indicated their preference to deal
with the oompant through committees
of their own selection
"Any such strike could not hope for
success except through violentse and In
timidation
"It Is well known that Immediately
PEQUOT CASINO DESTROYED.
.Nr London Loses Its Fashionable nought Informntlon for Cermans In
Ta.on.. Clubbna.e. Home I nod. Pari. ..
Nkw London. Corn.. Sept. - Pequot I'aris, Sept t In flew of recent
Casino, society's 000 clubhouse at'iii'tmaii coniinent on the eecuthm at
the mouth of the haibor, was practically ..Marseilles recently a a spy of Felice
i
destroyed by fire soon after noon to-day. , Pfaat. certain deta.N "f the case were
ban been the only fashionable hotel for put to death bv the Hermans at Urussels, Mailed abut the union 1 imp In the Cnntl
Ihe summer colnnv, and many private , ,,s unwarranted, "o'lital Hotel tcsti-id,,) 11 tt , upian"it
dinners, dances and functions have been i According to this lufnrm.iruu!. Felice nn.it mulct m ath the qui. t nfae., ni was
held in It. Pfaat was a French w ituan. bom at I ''"'ergy. prep.iiing th- nun I tumble.
The tire slartnl In a mtsterloii" man- ' Nancy in l!9rt. She went tu Metz In, ""nmlltie of f.nt.t.ou, si it Hd nn-
tier in the western end of the building ' un 1 and later iivclted permission lo l""ees of the Intetli was exert-
nnd the flames spread so rapidly that ' visit her mother In IScIkIuui. Whllt" ! "R M,'r ffnil In emnll itir, man on
two general alaims followed the regit- ' tln'te. It Is said, a (ienuan olllclnl pro- '"'' '"teni While thee ,., I 'ttcenteti
lar call for the city'." volunteer the de- poeil tint she gatlur military Infnrma-I "ej" goirg about town on tin tra-na en
parttnent. Low water pressure eais-ed 1 11011 , ars. She spent tluee weeks I '"""ig the men win. were w iltltg four
Ihe flames to spread the entire length ' in Culs and thin lepoited the result" 'i'1,1 he,'uqti.irlei i.(. op uc, In
if Ihe upper story before the firemen 'to 1 lei 111.111s who. she admitted, paid her I "iffi-i ent parts of the nt
....1,1 ......fntl tt'l,..,, lin fm ,.ia . ...... ..I.... ..I.-.. ......tli.e ,.,),.
cMingulJhed the building was completely
gutted
Ritrone"." von lliisburg nnd Mr.
Junius S. Morgan weie among the pa-
irons at the Casino. The Harmless ot
a diamond studded match safe nnd Mrs.
Morgan had a cUsc call with Per want
robe. Her trunks were tossed out upon
the lawn by the flreliuu Ju"t in time.
Julius rieK'hniann'H acht Whlilwlinl
transported a score of the Hotel iliie
wold's enip!o.tei'S across the Thames
River to assist the tli enieti. C .luiiiu-
dore Morton F. Plant also despatched a Two paliiilmon finm the West Sixty
boatload of seamen from his steam yacht J c gliih -licyl po.uc s'.atinn, ditalled t
Vanadla. watch for cocaine pedlets In the neigh
Whether the Casino will b icliuill ,oi hood of the public playground at Kiev
ttlll be determined hi a meeting of the ,,nth atcinic and Fift -ninth stlect, made
nttliers Wednesday evening. The Pcquot an aiicst jtslnilay ttlilch exposed a
Caslni Association was organized July 1 ttiitlh In drugs nniong school ihlldren.
I'.', Ikl'i. Its present ottlcria are II, P. .Vol onl.t did the pullceiiii II elze n'lie.
Learned, president. C Ru)te Ross, sec- 1 ei n "decks" of .1 powdci believed to b,
retary. and V K. Ult d. trcasiiier .no but the uut from the ptlsoner
a Hp as lo the w ht'l e.tlioilts of 100 mote
SALE OF WEST INDIES NEARER. i packages, of naivptt.s J'1' ,Va,,l"' ,,,'.'
Ilnnlsli Psrllea Xaiee In Xttild
election Oxer the Plan.
I.ospov, Sept S -A Copenhagen iles.
patch to the Kxchimge Telegraph Com
puny says the Danish political cilsls
iii'lelne out of Ihe proposed sale of the
Danish West Indies shows signs of col
lapsing suddenly.
"Although general election seemed
InevltHhle ycHtenhty." the despite!) adds,
It now appears to 1"K us It Ihe sale or
the Isl'inds might still he itivunipllshed
without an election the ract appears
to be that all parlies Hre beginning In Hhll, i,.tttll f,om San Francisco for
fed than nil election would lie a calamlt.i -,',,. l.oe,.. ,,i .1 taken Into Swiiii'imicnile.
at the present time ami should be molded )U)I lf,(11 Irta,,, accoiillug to a ("open
If possible." , ia,.i despatch to Ihe llM'hange Tele.
- - graph Coiiipno
BREMEN BELIEVED TO BE LOST. The tcssel s cargo of oil cake and
! foodstuffs was selri d
ShIiI lit llnte Left llaniliiiru llt'fui'f 1 -
... , siilioinrlnes NI11U I'niir Xlitre Milp",
I.0MI.0N. Sept i Die coriespolliliTl
The coriespoiiilerl
,, , . ,, .., , ...I.. ...... 1 1..1...
"f 'I: ' n lie,! .. . ni fro le
graphs Hint 1 ravelleis entiling friiui i ic -
111..11.1 i..."i. ' .
veit much If Ihe suliin.ll Ine lliciiieti will
ever lie heaid of again.
The correspondent quotes these natel
leis as saying that the general opinion
in Hamburg Is that the III omen had
already left for America when the
Deutschland incited In llalllmoic, and
the statement tli.it another was sl.utltv
when the Deiitsehland iclurniil refet rcn
In n third submarine, Thc believe theor the Slab hillzmiun cinni at Sea
Uretnen has been lost, ' dirt, N, J,
GOVERNOR
OF CAR STRIKE
upon the Inception of such a strike vio
lence starts. You will recall tho vio
lence Incident to tho recent strike on
the surface car lines. The police made
many arrests, but a union representative
was present In the police court to pay
every fine Imposed. Later, at your per-
sonal reuuesl. and to avoid further trou
ble, wo restored to service all men who
1 1.1 it beep arrested for violation of the
criminal law,
"Owing to the fart that employees of
street railroads must work In the streets,
In constant contact with the public. It Is
Impossible for any company fully to pro-
.,.(.. it. ow emplntees. For such pro
. u ..t.i I,, if,..l
ii'i'llim loe 1 unmany inur.. ,., "
measure upon public authority.
"New York city has the most effective
polke service In the world, and If nde
Hiijte measures aro taken In advance the
police under ordinary circumstances will
be fully able to protect the public and
tliU company's employees.
"fur such nrotectloii to be effective
It must be fiirnlshtil before disorder
, ,,.. ,lu. ,.tier acts of vlo
: ' . . ....... . .1.. ......
Mice have neen commmcii uim mc m
coerced Into Icuvlng their posts of duty.
I'll as Huliway Partner In 2 Years
'"Ti.om ! also another asnect to this
.. iiT i. mnn.iii tlmt the
'.uesllon wh ch It la lnrlnl tlmt the
"""'" M-.iit Vio vearV the city
, n.lnd n a l ,ut ?. .
i"'"1 lnr"'."lJ '? '.L .ubwata
. ' !Vt , 11 Vh en lave InvW up-
,,h Vf $ IS Ir. Interborough
rd , , ..ompany's
, f'V V.... .... tJ ,enii,t- are Insuf.
m,c,", n" V,. " " .i,,.
f '" .,,J, ,n i t Vn. bv
,,. i,-r,(,rouirli. It Is certain that the
j , .1 llpoll lhl, t.ixpavers of this
WM1 ''".' 111 a-Ijr.
merchants, hulnrs men nnd citizens
..it.. .,' .ch a strike as Is threat
i (.ned bv' the Amalgamated Cnlon
..vvvre ,ffepared to assure continuity
of service on all our lines no matter
what happens, slid all we ask is mat
the public's, own peace bo preserved to
the end that there may be no unlawful
Interference with the convenience of the
public whom It Is our duly to serte.
w.. tesneitfudv ak. therefore, that
Immediate steps be taken to the end
that the police, who ale supported by lliu
taxpHers' money, shall be directed to
protect the propel t.t. employees and
patron of tin couipany, tn which the
taxpayers of this city are t.o vitally in-
leresled.''
, SLAIN SPY A FRENCH WOMAN.
r s-'h,. 'was c.iiigh't tu the act of
sin diii nt Maiseilliti and admitted she
'hid been 1 uniml'sluncil to gather mil1-
t,nj Infm iii.itinn u July 1" she tt.i"
uu.inlmoiisl coniletuned to death by a
' coiiit-iiiaitl.il.
SOLD DRUGS TO CHILDREN.
Xiao Xrrcaled Has
tlecks l.lrl of IT.
Ill
Ills
Coca Ine
Xae.it.
llliill "ll'i "1','inmi ..mi nt... ... .... .......
.iiiong gll's and boys was mentioned by
Hie prts.nif r. Kugeiie H'-nry ofl.il West! ,fn Proof of their Mrcngili union
Sixt -second sirret j olllclals .testeiday polntcil m tho iiuinlier
The police learned tll.lt n g'rl of r, "' men opciating hiiIiw.i and elevated
was used lo llcnrt as an a-ent I Rains who boldl wore tne 11 1011 In.
. . , -ignla and buttons on 'heir iiiiilorius,
1 'S'o tll'iiil was made on the p.ill of he
AMERICAN SHIP RELEASED, i conip.m.t u make the nn". i.un th. m i.rr,
- 1 lioth Mr lleille.i an. I l. Slionls,
tift'ii.iiiia. Ilniifxer. er Umo of PH'ldcnt of tne I, terbini.iigi, . unpaii).
, . iiinailied 111 scilu-ion 1 stenLi.t until
Ihe Prlits 111lrn1nr. j tl)(.h, ,,., y,, f u ,(, ,(l
i..,...v ..i,t 1 'fin. Aiii.'iic.iii u.i.l. .Hie new sti.u.er olllces th.., h inteii.teil
,,, j,,. ,.',. , ,nK Vailemar, which was
,,, .,i ,, 1 ;,.t ins on July 2".
l Stent. A Till, Hlitiali sleiiln.
' .. .. t. 1. .. 1 .....
' "" O 1 '"'"""h "nn me i-ienvii mil, 1,11-
1 h'w,M Alv11"'1''1. '"' "wll ves
1 mIji Uw N,ct'inu Hcau.-ihlps Cott
. 1 1 1 . I and Set cm l.l I hate licen sunk, lilt-
siiiuahl.t by suhinai lues, acciiiillim lo an
,11111, iiliHcin. nl made al l.loils.
I'onrll. . .1, Triiois start Monic,
I'm ui. is. An... Scpl I Tin Fitutlli1
New .Inset Infautii. together with the
henhluaiKin of the I 1 1 a-1 New .Iciset '
. I li'lg.iile, began cutr.tiiilug hire lo.il.it
Kmployees to He Told of
Decision at Conference
With Road Officials.
CREWS MAY DKSKHT
TRAINS AT STATIONS
Employees Refuse to Sign
Hedley "Master and Ser
vant'' Agreement.
COMPANY HAS 3.000
NON-UNIONISTS READY
3fanas;ers Say Not, More
Than One-Third of Force
Is Organized.
Unless there Is nn unexpected
change of attitude on tho part of the
Interborough Rapid Transit. Company
this morning when Frank Medley, the
road's general manager, meets repre
sentatives of the recently organized
union, New York city will fare n tletip
of Its jirlnclpiil traction arteries, tho
suhwny and elevated lines.
Theodore I". Shonts. president of the
Interborough, said posltivt ly last night
that he would not grant tthnt the nun
will ask tn-dny.
The lighting spit It of the men has
risen steadily since Saturday night
when seventy trackmen employed In
tile subway ttere ill-cliaised because
they refused to sign tin- two years
contract which llcillcy ha s iiimltted
to the men since the support d settle
ment of the New York lt illwacs strike.
This contract, which the union men
term a "master and servant" agree
ment, will bo the principal point of
discussion In the executive nlllce.t of
the Interborough at lo:30 o'clock this,
morning, when William I! Fitzgerald,
union organizer, ami his rolli'iimies.
will greet C.enrral .MuniiKi r llcillcc.
Who Will be tlankul with the best legal
tnlrnt the comp.tny cm ptes. n
It Is uu.letsiiml ih.it lb dirt will
argue that the stltlemeut in.i'b ittteen
the New Yntlt Rallw.ijs iVnipity and
lt workers has ii.itl.ing to do with any
thing the Inierboioiigh feels Justified In
proposing to It ow n men
Cnlon lln.n't lit II e oou itUed.
The liiterborougli will n.i.ipt t ,c .uti-
li'J.'T'' ! u'"U,h !,,,y
union, and tlu reloie it Mi ' i , i rv
I for t hf-in to iuiisMi. ,u,t oiit-nle tginey
in conti icl ins: w it It then mi n ..iiiplovi '.
I ... .'.'f,1'."''' ",'!''1 '",,,M'r , 11,11 ' '"l-
iiHuiaiei to I'.ill out all lb, men eiu-
tlH, u,w,lv .,,) t nr.K
I Kiirnll XI I T.nini tlen.
The prl' . .p il niolluii; ina . 1 1 , u,i
111 l.tciutn Hall on Cast IM. ,iviii
sllt'Ct, h.H I'll 11 opvlleil fi'l s.nj-al il.tjs,
Tile union mm In chat gt (hi c tsti-r-ila.t
said that suite the et 1 01 nieni began
T.O0D nun hate Joiiied the 01 ga i7..Hlon.
This, il was conteti led. 1 cm 1 selited 9(1
'per cent, of the Intel bo iinigii einplo.tees.
.s outlined li hoth spies .teterday,
the leviilt of the In. .f 1 . 1 ,ip,
tn.il.i.t, wnl dipi-tnl .,l:n,.i 1 ntirrly on
the ability of Ihe union to .ontioi tlm
I110I011111M, and -ignal nun in i.ie suhwat
and elevated It was ad nittnl tr tho
union that the plates of th,. g'uiids, con
ductois, agents and ticket , lioppets could
easily be tilled tilth lllisktllc I labo , hut
thai It would bo dangi nni-. fo tac liiter
borougli to attcnipt lo oMC.atc subway
trains without skilled cm..nei and nio
tnniien The-e cl.isst s of 1 . p'c ee. the
union . confident, tin Int. 1 ush can
not get.
XI an I'lHal. I .. I I
I t islting ihe c ir I1.11 us at ricii i th at enuo
and Fiftieth M1101
It has secnieil for si tel. I days .is
though the It t"tliniotti:h "Ml Is ill I t it
. 'C.I Id the line. lie lie I sll.I.e sel'tollsh,
Intivtlg.ili'iii has ui, ,1 f,,r that
the Inicrl'oti.iigli has . . m, , ( tho
most thorough plans for 1,0 u.g a labor
colltllcl.
Thiec thous.unl str.Uc linaUiis list
night had leen sent b,' ilcteitno agcti
cles. Inclniling lleigotf lumbers and
IC. .1.1.. 1 1 ..I,..,,. .. u,..ll.. I in
, . ' . ....... .. . ' .
, lillll ll 'II .1 11111 llllllll'; 1 lie 11.11. to
- ,.! ,nts on both th.. .,,l,w, ami
- 1 elevated diti-lou-. of 'he I nn rlioroiigh
Ties,, sll ke ilea kels tic Ihe mnil
J p.u t hate bet-i walling 111 New .Ivrsef
, and ndiiceiu to the t. mints fielg'it
1 terminals eter sine, the 1.1 ln.nl 'HiU-
' turn became serious
.. , . ,
str,u- '"' I
When 'lie tighi I10111 law wep' t tn
.effect Hid the -Mini nb w n ie.,,iin I
'lie i.illroi'ls tlisuus -eil these men, but
I they were qulcM icvmplo.tcd and
