WEATHER.
Partly cloudy tonight and tomorrow;
probably showers tomorrow; little tem
perature change; light variable winds.
Temperature for twenty-four hours
ending 2 p.m.: Highest. 88. at 2 p.m. to
day; lowest. 65, at 6 a.m., today.
Full report on page 13.
CLOSING NEW YORK STOCKS PAGE 13.
W)t Mbmma
'From Prett to Home
Within the Hoar"
Swora Ifet Circulation. Month of Angnnt,
1916, Dally Areru*. 74,W?, Sunday. 55,712.
No. 29.432.
WASHINGTON, D. C., TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 5, 1916.-SIXTEEN PAGES.
ONE CENT.
Allies Apparently Making Su
preme Effort to Break
Through German Front.
SECOND LINE OF DEFENSE
IS CAPTURED BY BRITISH
Vigorous Counter Attacks North of
the River Turned Back by
the French.
GERMANS RESIST FIERCELY
Both Sides Fighting With Desperate
Courage, Infantry Being Sup
ported by Staggering Concen
tration of Artillery.
LONDON, September 5, 3:15
p.m. I he battle of the Sotnmc
has now reached the high pitch of
violence. Against the concentra
tion of picked German troops the
I-rench and British are striking
blow after blow in what appears]
to be a supreme effort to force a
way through the German line.
British troops in battles last1
night increased their gains in the 1
neighborhood of Guillemont, says
tile British official statement is
sued this afternoon.
Hold on Leuze Wood.
The British forces pushed forward j
tu 1.5?u yards east of Guillemont vil- j
1-ge and secured a hold on Leuze wood, j
Further south a strong German svs- !
tun of defense on a front of 3,000 feet
around Falfemont farm was captured.
The official announcement says that
the fighting on the Somme since Sep
tember 3 has resulted In the capture
ly the British of the whole of the re
maining German second line of de
fenses on the battle front from Mou
quet farm to the point'where the Brit
ish line joins the French.
The Germans are not yielding their
carefully organized positions without
desperate resistance, and the fighting
among ruins of villages and over deso
lated farm lands is unceasingly severe,
with heavy losses on both sides. Last
night the Germans launched a number
of vigorous counter attacks, but the
French war office reports they were
beaten with heavy losses to the attack
ers The battle Is being carried on
under the most unfavorable weather
conditions.
Since the beginning of the Somme
offensive twenty-nine villages have
been captured by the allies, each of
them powerfully organized.
Counter Attacks Bepulsed.
PARIS. September 5 (noon).?Vigor
ous counter attacks were made by the
Germans north of the Somme last night
in an effort to regain ground taken
in the new drive of the French. The
war office announced today that the
Germans were repulsed with heavy
losses.
The German assaults north of the
Somme were delivered between Combles
and Forest. South of the river unsuc
cessful blows were struck by the Ger
mans east of Be lloy. In these opera
tions the French took 100 prison* is
The activities of the French are aicain
bein* hindered by ba weather which
prevailed all night over the whole
Somm. front. The French are organiz
ing their newly won ground.
The capture of Soyeeourt and Chillv
by the French yesterday makes a total
of twenty-nine villages t?k"n since the
Jtart of the offensive on the Somme
front The positions wrested from the
Germans yesterday were powerfully or
ganized.
At I'arleux, one of the strongest po
B.tlons on this front, repeated direct
attacks were unsuccessful and the
* rench finally resorted to a turning
movement, attacking to the southwe?t
, Germans counter attacked no less
than s,x times yesterday in a desperate
effort to regain lost ground.
I'.KRI.IN. September 5. via London.
lite great battle on .the Somme front
in France, says the official statement is
sued by the army headquarters, con
Tirues today.
de^^f,?h* r\Vf>r thA G"fnani. are
?W ? -din* themselves on a front eiaht
eer > Wide, which the entente allies
f.u.r "Tr,,,f'K ,Th" *1 the village of
hili., hy the Germans is conceded. ?
British Now Have Command
of Ridges Along the Somme
From Thiepval to the South
WITH THE BRITISH ARMIES J\
FRANCE. September 5. via London. 3:4?
p rn Despite their determined counter
ait eks yesterday, when they advanced
In *\es shoulder to shoulder, in de
fe I. e of this chosen strategic p?|n,
the Germans had to yield Falfemont
farm this morning.
The British had closed around It In
the darkness, and dawn found the sur
vivors of the garrison raked with ma
chine gun fire. It, a hopeless situation
plastered with mud after a niirht of
coM and heavy rain, and having gone
,hey put
Meanwhile, a British battalion, finding
little opposition, on Its own Initiative
pressed on through the mud and the
shell craters and gained the edge of
I-euie wood, which carried them nast
Gineliy where the Germans are fortified
amid the ruins with nests of machine
,hT?*!.BrIV,"h ,Bai? "l'" e ^nday Is more
than a mile in depth. Irish troops of
the new army enlisted through the efforts
of John Redmond and other nationalist
leaders distinguished themselves by
taking Guillemont. They rounded up
numerous prisoners in dug-outs and
1 Continued on Tenth 1'agel)
i Czar's Troops, Going to Assist
Rumanians, Clash With
Bulgar Invaders.
PETROGRAD, September 5,
via London, 2:10 p.m.?Russians
and Bulgarians are fighting in
Rumania. The war office an
; nounced today that the first clash 1
| between the Bulgarians whoj
? have invaded eastern Rumania |
I and the Russians who went in to
j assist Rumania occurred yester
J day.
| A Bulgarian cavalry -outpost!
' was sabered by Russian cavalry.
Success for Bulgars Claimed.
! LONDON, September 5. 1:45 p.m.?
! The first day's fighting; on Rumanian
soil due to the invasion of Dobrudja by j
Bulgarians and Germans is said by the j
Bulgarian war office to have resulted j
in the retreat of the Rumanians, who
left hundreds of dead on the field.
As previously reported by the Ger
man war office, the invaders crossed
| the entire Dobrudja frontier and oc
! cupied towns near the border. The
| statement was issued at Sofia Sunday.
' An official statement issued yester
| day at Berlin says:
j "German and Bulgarian troops which
1 had crossed the southeastern frontier
j of Rumania between the river Danube
and the Black sea advanced Sunday.
I Near Koemar the Bulgarian cavalry
1 drove back the Rumanian infantry,
j capturing 310 Rumanians.
Rumanian Advance Rapid.
! PARIS, September 5.?The advance
| of the Rumanian troops in the first five
days of their campaign was consider
able, and at some points was as much
| as eighty kilometers (about forty-eight j
miles), says a dispatch from Urgeni, !
under date of Saturday, to the Petit
i Parisien. The forward march, how
ever, now has been somewhat slack
ened because of the difficulty of send
ing revictualing convoys. Although
the ground on the eastern Hungarian
frontier was unfavorable for the Ru- ?
manians, the correspondent said, they
were successful in their dash across
the river, and now occupy the valleys.
Rumania's declaration of war, the dis
patch adds, was so unexpected by Aus
tria that only a few troops of the dual
I monarchy were on the Rumanian fron
! tier, and these were not on guard when
hostilities were begun. Half an hour
before war was declared Hungarian of
ficers were drinking with Rumanians at
a frontier railroad station. Soon after
ward a Rumanian outpost entered the
station, took the officers as prisoners
and then captured quantities of mate
Irialg. The Rumanian offensive was so
sudden that the Austrians had not time
: to blow up bridges nor tunnels.
Italian Successes in Albania.
| ROME, September 4, via London Sep
j tember 5.?Italian troops have made
j additional successes in Albania, east of
| Avlona, says an official statement given
I out today. The villages of Kuta and
I Drizar have been occupied and Monte
Gradist has been taken.
HUNGARIANS IN MOURNING.
Members of House of Magnates Wear
Black at Sitting.
j LONDON, September 5, 1:05 p.m.?
The sitting of the Hungarian house of ?
magnates at Budapest Saturday, when I
Premier Tisza explained the necessity
of depleting Transylvania of troops. in
order to bring the Russian offensive to
a standstill, telegraphs the Reuter j
correspondent at Bern, Switzerland, <
was marked by the utmost depression, j
All the members were attired in deep j
mourning.
Owing to the difficulties of the inter- !
nal situation, the correspondent adds,
j the Hungarian minister of education
i has ordered all schools in Hungary
| closed until November 1.
DANISH ISLANDS TREATY
IS REPORTED FAVORABLY
No Objection to Purchase Plan Made
in Senate Committee?May Be
Ratified This Session.
The treaty for the purchase of the
Danish West Indies for $25,060,000 was
ordered favorably reported to the Sen
ate today by the foreign relations com
mittee by a unanimous vote of senators
present It will be reported later today
and an effort made to have it ratified
before adjournment of Congress.
The committee voted in favor of the
treaty after Senator Stone and Senator
i McCumber, acting as a subcommittee,
had declared that there was nothing
objectionable in the privileges and con
cessions granted to various corpora
tions or the islands which the treaty
prox>oses to continue in force.
"It is to be hoped that the treaty can
be ratified at once." said Senator Stone,
"but of course there is no disposition to
, let it delay adjournment. Any objec
, tiori to its ratification will force post
j ponement of action until the next ses
t sion."
England Buys Up Nitrate Supply.
SAN FRANCISCO* September 5.?Great
Britain has purchased the entire supply
of synthetic nitrate in Norway, thereby ;
preventing exportation of this requisite i
in the manufacture of ammunition by
Germany, according to a statement made
here today by J. H. Humphreys, mana
ger of a larg^ British nitrate corporation,
who is in San Francisco enroute to Chile! '
1 Humphreys stated that he plans to put j
j into operation at the nitrate plants of I
his company in Chile a new process for
; extracting and elaborating nitrate that
i will cut the cost of production in half.
Robs Theater as Show Goei On.
OKLAHOMA CITY.' September 5
Singled handed, a masked man armed with
a revolver last night during a performance
at the Liberty Theater held up and rob
t>ed H. W. McCall, manager of the house,
and G. Hoag, manager of the musical
comedy company playing there. Securing i
$400, the robber escaped through the bal- I
cony audience and down a fire escape into j
an alley, whore he disappeared. I
EIGHT-HOUR LAW
CAMPAIGN ISSUE
Party Leaders Weighing Pos
sibilities of Situation as
Political Capital.
NATIONAL HUMILIATION,
REPUBLICAN ATTITUDE
Democrats Look on Administration's
Course as Patriotic to Avert Coun
try-Wide Calamity.
The extent to which events of the
threatened railroad strike will figure
in the coming presidential and congres
sional elections is today receiving se
rious consideration from every politi
cian and statesman of the two great
parties.
From President Wilson down through
the higher and lesser lights of the po
litical world earnest thought is being;
given to the developments of the last
few weeks and the effect they may have
upon the coming and future elections.
Opportunity to Criticise President.
President Wilson's opponents believe
he has laid the foundation for severe
attacks for possibly a strong issue
against him. The President and his fol
lowers, on the contrary, believe the
President has nothing to fear from his
attitude preceding and during the final
settlement through congressional ac
tioj^ rushed to a dramatic conclusion
to aToid a threatened national calamity.
Many letters from republican senators
and representatives are leaving Wash
ington today addressed to Mr. Hughes
and to Chairman Wilcox of the republi
can national committee, suggesting
that President Wilson and the demo
cratic -party have laid themselves open
to combined republican attack that
promises results, and seeking the views
of the republican standard bearers on
the question with a view to lining up
the party or leaving each individual
republican leader or candidate to han ?
die the matter to suit himself. Mr.
Hughes yesterday broached the subject
in his Nashville speech.
Arguments of Republicans.
As many republicans look at it today.
President Wilson and the democratic
congressional leaders submitted to the
greatest national humiliation of politi
cal history by rushing through Con
gress legislation that had the O. K. of
the brotherhoods only upon it; that was
hastened by the threat of a nation-wide
strike; without regard for the rights
of the railroads and stockholders; with
out a care for the interests of the pub
lic arid shippers, ?ompellcd to pay the
bill in the end through the increased
revenues the interstate commerce com
mission may have to give the railroads
to enable them to continue their exist
ence. and without thought for the hun
dreds of thousands of men who would
have been thrown out of work by a
strike.
Democratic Rebuttal.
The democrats will answer the repub
lican charges. They will point out that
the President went into the situation
thoroughly; thaf. he quickly reached the
conclusion that the course adopted by
him was the only way to save the coun
try from a great disaster; that the
brotherhoods firmly and solemnly as
sured him that on the eight-hour ques
tion they would not accept arbitration,
causing him to determine that if the
public was to be kept from the priva
tions and passions of a huge strike he
must follow the course he did, reserving
to himself tne right to insist in the fu
ture upon legislation to prevent such
a possible tie up of the industry and
life of the nation; that the gratitude
of the public generally will outweigh
the arguments presented by republi
cans, and, above all, that the President
stood, as he has always stood, for hu
manity as against monetary considera
tions.
The President, the democrats point
out, will have no occrsion, politically
or otherwise, to regret that he insisted
upon an eight-hour law; that mankind
generally will realize the benefits it has
received through the precedent of Con
gress in this case. The brotherhoods
merely exercised their right in letting
Congress know what legislation they
would accept and what they would re
ject.
The democrats also believe that what
ever votes the President may lose from
the element that agrees with the re
publican claims on the strike situation
will be more than overcome by the
thoughtful element that sympathizes
with the President for the trying years
he has gone through, the fearful prob
lems he has been forced to solve, and
that will give him credit for handling
these problems.
Headquarters to Talk It Over.
A. conference will be held at republi
can national headquarters in New York
this week to consider plans for making
a campaign issue of this legislation,
according to republican senators. Sev
eral members of the special senatorial
campaign committee will go to New
York for this conference, it was said.
Senator Nelson, republican, of Min
nesota. speaking in the Senate yester
day. characterized the eight-hour bill
as a law "to increase by legislative fiat
the wages of a certain class of railroad
employes."
"This," he continued, "is the culmi
nation of democratic wisdom in the
field of legislation. Time will tell
whether this law will be of permanent
help to those who held us up by the
throat and threatened to strike, and
whether it will help the democrats to
secure the election of President Wilson.
"One thing is certain?that If the in
creased wages are sustained, it will of
necessity impose a great additional
burden on the farmers of the country.
This law is the apex of the scheme of
so-called construvtive legislation of the
democratic party."
day in congress.
Senates
Met at 10 a.m.
Resumed debate on revenue bill.
Senator Martine introduced res
olution calling on State Depart
ment to inform the Senate of the
exact hour that Senate appeal for
clemency to Irish political pris
oners was delivered to British
authorities, charging that it did
not reach them until Sir Roger
Casement had been executed.
I Houses
Met at noon.
J ^
Measure Would Permit United
States Firms to Operate Collective
Selling Agencies Abroad.
I
Unrelenting opposition to the Webb
bill, which would permit American
firms to operate collective selling
agencies abroad, has developed in the
Senate, and if pressed will precipitate a
fight that threatens to delay adjourn'
ment of Congress.
Opposition will come from both sides
of the chamber. Senator Reed of Mis- ;
souri, democrat, has informed some of!
his colleagues that he would do every- I
thing in his power to defeat it on the '
ground that the proposed agencies!
might resolve themselves into buying I
as well as selling organizations and!
(prevent the sale of American goods in'
foreign nations except through them '
thus creating a foreign selling mo-1
nopoly. I
May Violate Treaties.
Senators La Follette, Cummins and
Gallinger also are opposed to the bin
Senator La Follette insisting that it
would mean the death of the Clayton
anti-trust law. It also was reported
that the State Department had urged
an inquiry into the measure, fearing
that it might operate in violation of |
trade treaties with foreign nations. An I
effort to refer the bill to the foreign!
relations committee may be made Not i
withstanding the outlook Senator Lewis 1
said he proposed to offer the bill as an i
amendment to the revenue bill latei
today and to let the fight develop.
VICTOR IN AERIAL BATTLE
DROPS ROSES FOR VICTIM
BERLIX, September 5. via London
11:02 a.m.? Prof. Siebert, several
years ago an exchange professor in the 1
United States, was killed recently In an
aerial action over the western front.
The following day the Belgian victor
dropped a bouquet of roses for the fu
neral, with the Inscription: "A Belgian
aviator's homage to a foe defeatfd
aerial battle."
MAY FIGHT ADAMSON LAW.
Railway Employes Outside of Broth-!
erhoods Combine in Protest.
CHICAGO. September 5.?Employes of I
the railroads other than the members of I
the four brotherhoods are to make a de- !
J termined fight upon the Adamson eight- !
j hour law, (u-cordlng to Robert T Frizier I
j an employe of the Nashville. Chattanooga '
and St. Louis railroad, here today. He
claimed to have secured many signers to i
ihe"law?n t0 C?"*reSS "rotcsting against
I Mr. Frazier will leave for Pittsburgh1
today, and following a visit to Phila
(delphia and New York will go to Wash- I
I ington to present his petition to Con- i
grrens. He claims the new ~ , i
?h?C!4l^0rd0empe|oyesd lg"?rCd 1'5O0-?0'?
Bun Off Primary for Judges Held.
JACKSON, Miss., September 5. Vot
ers In the first and third Judicial dis
tricts today were balloting in a run-off i
primary for democratic nominees for'
Judge of the state supreme court of 1
Mississippi: In the first district Judge
Clayton D. Potter, incumbent |8 ?n
posed Dy George Ethridge. and in the"
third Judge E. O. Sykes. incumbent is
opposed by R H. Knox In -h. ?'
primary, heli, August 15 with thl '
plurality. Nomination by the demo
emu I. equivalent to election. demo"
Capture Thousands of Prison
ers, Many Cannon and
Machine Guns.
PKRTOGRAD, September 5, via Lon
don, 2:15 p.m.?In the direction of Vladi
mir-Volynski on the upper Sereth, Vol
hynia, Russian troops in battles lasting
from Thursday to Saturday captured 115
Teuton officers and 4,514 men.
They also took six cannons, thirty-five
machine guns and four mine throwers.
This information was contained in the
Russian official statement issued today.
Nearly 20,000 Prisoners.
Between Thursday and Sunday the
troops of the Russian commander. Gen
Brussiloff, captured 3S5 officers and 19,020
men. In this number were eleven Ger
man officers and 1,300 German privates
Twelve cannons, seventy-six machine
guris and seven bomb mortars also were
taken.
Today's official statement says:
-In the direction of Vladimir-Volynski
tn the region of the Upper Sereth. we
captured in battles from Thursday to Sat
Russians Take Mount Plunka
SayvHle.?After violent lighting, says an
A 11 C't T* r\ _ IX lir> rm lai r. ?
NOT TRYING TO ESCAPE LAW!
Uxoricide Who Jumped From Train
Merely Wanted to Die.
CHICAGO, September 5.?J. Maurice
Pettit, accused of the murder of his
young bride, was not trying to escape
frpm the law ofljeers when he made his
mad leap from a fast train near Michi
gan City, Ind., last Sunday, according
to his own statement. He was trying
to get away from his "material ex
istence," he told physicians at the
hospital where he is recovering from
his injuries.
"I was trying to kill myself," he said
today. "1 wanted to Join my wife on
her spiritual plane."
It was said at police headquarters
that Pettit will be required to re-enact
the tragedy in which he killed his
young wife with a razor when he has
sufficiently recovered from his injuries '
to be removed from the hospital. Tne
police are not satisfied with his story
of the killing.
"OBEY" TO BE STRICKEN OUT.
Should Not Be Used in Mturia^c
Ceremonies, Commission Decides.
CHICAGO. September B._The com
mission of seven bishops, seven pastors
and seven laymen of the Protestant
Episcopal Church appointed to revise
the ritual of the church has determin
ed to eliminate the word "obey" fro>n
the marriage ceremony, it was learned
here today. The commission will report
Returns From Hodgenville, Ky.,
This Afternoon?Mr. Wilson to'
Begin Vacation This Week.
Thp President and Mrs. Wilson, Sec
retary Tumulty, Dr. and Mrs. Gary
Grayson and other members of the
presidential party who went to Hodg
enyille, Ky., to take part in the Lin
coln home ceremonies yesterday have
returned to Washington, arriving at 3
o'clock this afternoon.
The White House expects the Presi
dent to leave Washington for his sum
mer vacation by Thursday afternoon or
Friday morning. The time will depend
upon his disposal of a large amount of
work accumulating for weeks while he
negotiated to settle the threatened rail
way strike. He disposed of much of
this last Friday before going to Shad
ow Lawn.
He is not expected to have many con
gressional callers during the next few
days except those wishing to say good
bye before proceeding to their homes.
P riday night next the President is to
s*ieak before the National Woman Suf
frage Association at Atlantic City.
\\ith that over he will remain at
.Shadow Lawn, enjoying some vacation
until he goes to St. Louis, September
| 20. to speak before the national under
j writers' convention. His next engage
ment is at Baltimore September 25
? when he is scheduled to speak before
the National Grain Dealers' Conven
tion.
It is expected that Mr. Wilson will
make occasional speeches to delega
tions calling at Shadow Lawn and thus
keep his views before the country
White House clerks who are prepar
ing to go to Shadow Lawn are expect
ing to remain there until the November
election, believing the President will
: "ot return to the White House before
that time.
President Jubilant Over Greetings.
HUNTINGTON. W. Va.. September 5
on board President Wilson's special
train ?President Wilson was returning
to Washington today enthusiastic over
the receptions accorded him in Ken
tucky, West Virginia and Virginia yes
terday. He Is due to arrive at the Na
tional Capital at 2 o'clock this after
noon.
With the present session of Congress
practically \over, the President consid
ers the campaign on from his stand
point. Last night he passed through
the territory in which Charles E
Hughes, the republican presidential
nominee, speaks today. At Lexington
Ky., a crowd of several thousand per
sons. with a hand, cheered him con
tinuously until his train pulled out.
Befuses Political Speeches.
Today the President continued to re
fuse to make political speeches on the
present trip because he went to
Hodgenville, Ky., to honor Abraham
Lincoln. He expressed his attitude
last night to a crowd at Winchester.
Ky., which demanded a speech.
"I did not come down here on ?
speechmaking tour." he said. "God
bless you all." The cheering of the
Iargevcrowds at every station through
which the President passed caused him
to smile broadly and- shake hands with
as many as possible.
"I never received such receptions," he
remarked.
After the Atlantic City speech, the
President has no engagements before
September 20, when he goes to St
Louis. During his stay at Long Branch
N. J., however, he will see many dele
gations and write several political let
ters.
Sexton at Age of 106; Dies at 107.
HARRISONBURG. Va.. September 5.
George Manro gave up his job as sex
ton of the Catholic Church here when
he was 105 years *>ld. He died yester
day at the age of 107. His mind was
still clear and active and he was able
to walk about as late a? last Wednes
day. He was born In Scotland and came
to this country in 116!.
Ensign Fitzhugh Green So Ex
plains What Admiral (Peary
Supposed Was Land.
CAREFUL SOUNDINGS MADE;
OBSERVATIONS ALSO FAIL
McMillan Party Covered Location
Indicated as Place Where New
Territory Was Seen.
NEW YORK, September 5.?Ensign Fitz
hugh Green. IT. S. N.. who accompanied
Donald B. McMillan In 1913 on his expert "
tion in search of "Crockcr I<an ,
reached here today on the Danish
steamship United States, from Copen
hagen. He confirmed previous reports
that "Crocker Land" does not exist.
Green said he accompanied McMillan
on his three-month trip from Cape
Thomas Hubbard, where their ship was
disabled, out over the Polar sea toward
where Rear Admiral Peary claimed to
have seen Crocker Land.
Mirage Is Explanation
Peary. according to Green, claimed
to have made his observations about 130
miles from the Greenland coast. Mc
Millan and Green traveled 150 miles.
Favored by clear weather, they deter
mined from observations and careful
soundings that what Peary had seen
was a mirage. _
This belief was confirmed further.
Green said, by the fact that they them
selves saw mirages. Tan
In company with Dr. Maurice C. Tan
nnarv Jerome L. Allen, wireless oper
ator for the MacMillan e*Pedition:.,^
Dr E O. Hovev, who led an expedition
to MacMillan's relief in 1915. andI joined
him at Etah, Green, early this >?ar?
sot out on a 1.300-mile dog-siedge
journey to a southern Greenland post.
Dr. Hovey, after going sixty miles, r
turred to his ship. The others con
tinued. making their way t? Demnark.
Dr. Tanquary and Allen preceded Ln
sign Green home. , . _
Ensign Green will go to Washing
ton Monday, to report his ?bser*a*'<"!*
to the Navy Department. He said their
time had been well spent in explora
tion and mapping along the northerly
Greenland coast. , , J -
MacMillan. he reported, had gathered
a valuable collection of skins, minerals
and other exhibits that he will bring
home on the steamship Denmark
chartered to bring the party out.
Admiral Peary Unconvinced.
In a statement recently telegraphed
from his summer home in Maine to the
New York Tribune Admiral Peary
urged that "it will be well to await the
completion of Stefansson-s discoveries
before dismissing Crocker Land." The
statement was subsequent to printed
expressions of doubts as to the ex
istence of "Crocker Land ^ , .
Admiral Peary admitted that he and
MacMillan might have been mistaken,
being misled by the nearly permanent
clouds in that region He withheld
judgment, however, until he could get
adequate proofs.
NOT ALL SUBMARINES
WAR CRAFT, IS ANSWER
United States Asserts Principle That
Characteristic of U-Boat
Must Determine Status.
To the propo'sal of the entente allies
that neutrals accept the principle that
all submarines are vessels of war the
United States has dispatched a reply
which, it is understood, holds to the
principle that the characteristics of
each individual submersible must govern
the case.
At the same time advices to some of
the diplomats here today announced
that Norway, Sweden and Spain had
forbidden their harbors to merchant
submarines on the ground that they
were "indistinguishable" from war
I craft.
i The memorandum from the allies was
! st nt to all neutral powers. The reply
I of the United States, it was officially
stated, was also in the form of a mem
orandum and not a formal note. Cop
i jes were sent to each of the entente
[allies. , .
To the contention in the allied mem
1 onndum that it is difficult, if not im
possible, for warships to distinguish
between armed and merchant subma
rines the American reply is understood
to point out that it is equally difficult
to distinguish between sailing mer
i chant vessels, some of which may have
J maisked batteries.
I MURDER WARRANT BY TJ-BOAT.
1 Russian Arrested in Jersey City for
Alleged Crime in Germany. j
JERSEY CITY, N. J? September 5.?
Wadislaw Kubicci. living with his wife
and two children here, has been ar
rested on a warrant brought to this
country by the German merchant sub
marine" Deutschland, which charges him
with the murder of Valerie Klesovnska
four years ago in Meckienburg-Schwe
rin, Prussia.
The young woman was choked to
death and her body thrown into a pond,
the warrant alleges, after she had
! quarreled with the prisoner's wife and
had caused her arrest.
Kubicci denied knowledge of the
murder, but admitted, the police as
sert he had been in the neighborhood
where the girl met death. The body
was found a year after the slaying,
when the pond Into which it had been
thrown dried up.
Extradition proceedings will be be
gun.
SLIGHT INCREASE IN SCOURGE.
Forty-Three New Cases of Infantile
Paralysis in New York.
NEW YORK. September 5.?A slight
increase in the epidemic of infantile
paralysis was observed during the
twenty-four hours ended at 10 a.m. to
day There were forty-three new cases,
three more than yesterday, and twen
ty-one deaths, an Increase of five.
TRENTON, N. J.. September 5.?Twen
? V new cases of infantile paralysis were
renorted to the state department of
health today, with Newark y?to make
a reporC The total case. Iniflie state
I ?t "ate number J.77J. I
SENATE STRIKES
ALLIED BLACKLIST
AND CURB ON MAIL
Drastic Amendments to Rev
enue Bill Creates Consterna
tion Among Diplomats.
CONSIDER THEM STEPS
TOWARD COMMERCE WAR
Retaliatory Measures Will Be Bull
pf Representations if
Enacted. (i
ARE EXPECTED TO PASS
Administration Leaders Make No Ef
fort to Stay Adoption of Pro
visions?Money Measure to '
Pass Today.
Drastic amendments to the
revenue bill, striking at the allied
blacklist and British interferences
with American mails, were adopt
ed today by the Senate and cre
ated consternation among the
diplomatic representatives of the
allies.
In allied quarters it was de
clared that the enactment of the
amendments into law would con
stitute nothing less than a non
intercourse act, preliminary to .1
commercial warfare, with possi
bilities of far-reaching conse
quences.
Assurance of Protests.
Until the retaliatory amendments be
come law with the President's signa
ture the allies technically have noth
ing to protest about, but there are as
surances that representations will be
made if the amendments stay In the
bill.
Inasmuch as the government has de
cided on a course of legislation to meet
the restraints upon commerce, which
diplomatic correspondence has been un
able to remove. It is generally expected
the amendments will be put through.
The administration leaders who have
intimate connection with the govern
ment's foreign policy made no attempt
to stay their adoption.
Will Take Vote Today.
Under an agreement to take a final
vote before adjournment tonight, the
Senate continued work today on the
bill.
Passage of the bill will virtually clear
the way for adjournment of Congress
probably not later than Thursday, as it
is the last of the big measures on the
administration program. Adjournment
at 6 p.m. Wednesday is provided for Jn
a joint resolution already prepared By
the democratic leaders, and its presen
tation in the House for passage today
only awaited word that the Senate
could finish Its work by that time.
Measures Striking at Allies.
An amendment to the revenue bill,
authorizing the President, during a war
in which the United States is not en
gaged, to withhold clearance from all
vessels which discriminate against
American shippers; to withhold priv
ileges from ships of such nations as
withhold privileges accorded to other
nations from American ships, and to
use the army and navy if necessary to
prevent departure of offending vessels
from United States ports. are the clauses
to which the allies object which were
passed today.
An amendment of Senator Phelan of
California was adopted authorizing the
President by proclamation to deny the
use of the mails, express, telegraph,
wireless or cable facilities to citizens
of nations which do not accord to
Americans all facilities of commerce,
"Including the unhampered traffic in
the mails." This amendment, it was
declared, was aimed particularly at
British interference with American
mails.
Strikes Canadian Fisheries.
The Chamberlain amendment, pro
hibiting admission of halibut and sal
mon into the United States except when
in bond from an American port, also
was adopted. The amendment is direct
ed against Canadian tisheries on the
Pacific and to urge development ol
American fisheries there.
An amendment to the tariff commis
sion section by Senator <?allinger was
adopted broadening the commission's
power so that it shall observe the effect
of tariff laws on industry and labor and
also observe the effect of "economic al
liances." An amendment by Senator
Sterling directing the commission to
investigate particularly the cost of
production here and abroad was re
jected.
Provides Higher Salaries.
Amendments were introduced by Sena
tor Cummins providing that the President
designate the chairman and vice chair
man of the commission each year and that
salaries of the members be $10,000 in
stead of {".riOO. Senator Cummins said
the bill as it came from committee would
have the officers head the commission for
twelve-year terms. He said the commis
sion should be paid as much as the inter
state commerce commission, for It will be
fully as important. He said failure to
Kive the larger salaries would convince
him that democrats were insincere in
passing this legislation or e.se^ failed to
realize the commission s importance.
Senator Smith of Heorgu. said he
thought members of commissions created
by Congress would be more inclined to
listen to members of congress if they
are not paid more than members of Con
fess and that better .^rv<cea could be
secured for *7.500 than J10.000.
Debate on Political Lines.
Discussion of the tariff commission
developed into a general political de
bate in which several long speeches
Were scheduled. Senators Penrose and
Smoot proposed to sum up the repub
lican political arguments for the ses
sion In two-hour speeches and Senator
Sttmmons was prepared to dJliver the
(Continued on Fourth Pace!)
