?r
"Beatrice Fairfax"
A Full Page heature of Adven
ture and Love Each Sunday
fJicJjmonit fmeS-Hispatdj
A Business Guide
Real Estate and Court News
Daily in Times-Dispatch
66th YEAR
VOLUNR At
M'.MIiKH ZtH.
1'RICE. TWO CENTS.,
WILSON ACCEPTS i
LINCOLN MEMORIAL!
Log Cabin in Which Martyred
President Was Born Housed
in Magnificent Structure.
HOMESTEAD GIFT TO NATION
Great Crowds From All Parts of
State Cheer Chief Executive
at Every Appearance.
MunOKNVIU.IS, KV? September
President Wilson came to Kentucky to
day to pay liomnqp to the memory of
Ldncoln and avoid politic!), but a great
crowd gathered from all parts of the
State, cheered him at every appear
ance. and turned hi* visit Into a cam
paign event.
The Presldunt accepter! for the Fed
eral government the log cabin In which
Lincoln was born, in si r.peeoh devoted
to a eulogy of the civil War Presi
dent. Standing on a temporary plut
form at the foot of a hill topped by a
magnificent granite memorial building
housing the J.incoln cabin, ne praised
1'lncoln as the embodiment of democ
racy.
"We are not worthy to stand here un
less we ourselves be in deed and in
truth real democrats and servanis of
mankind," he said, "ready to srive
our very live.- for freedom and justice
and spiritual exaltation of the gr-;al
nation which shelters and iniiturc? us."
The i on polls ir.-i 1 liara- tei of the
program was emphasised by tlic men
tion of the name of Charles K. Hutrhe?,
the Republican nomine* by one of the
speakers in givlre the list of directors
of the Ijlncoln Farm Association.
But as soon :i? tie- formal ceremonies
were over, politics came to the fore
At the railroad station platform the
President stood for nearly at< hour
shaking hands with men and .voinen
who ureeted him as "the next Pre*l
dent." As his train pull<?d out the.
crowd cheered and clapped, while he
bowed in acknowledgment.
OMO OI-* I.AIKil'.ST ? KOV.'DS
IV or liKNTI Civ V
What was said to he one of the
lirKe?i cro-vdi; ever gathered in this
i>art of Kentucky came to I.lncolr. Farm
in special trains, and automobiles and
on foot. Tlir President and his party
were taken from the station t? the
farm In automobiles, accompanied l>>
a troop of I.ouisvllle police. <in the
way the President .?'topped and laid a
wr> ath < ji a statue of Lincoln.
At ihe fnrit. lie walked up a long
ilisrht of broad granite stairs lined with
thousands of cheering: people to the
!?lticoln Memorinl nuildlne at the top.
Ins'rfe he examined silently the one
room cabin made of roueh logs, and
then wrote his tame in the registei.
Former Governor folk, of Missouri,
president of tiie J.incoln Farm Asso
ciation. pc <>>.|ed at the creninrilcs.
Helen .1. <'oilier, vice-president of the
association, enve the dee.) of r'f? of
ili" fi'rm '< s'erretarj linker. repre
senting >he War Pepartment Sniator
Williams, of Mississippi. ,nd General
Tohn P Cattleman, of l.o?:isville. :ii.so
delivered speei >ie.
tn introdut ini- t!\e ('resident, Mr.
Folk sp?^kc of Mr. Wilson as "the auc
ces?or of Lincoln In the affections of
the American people."
President and Mrs.. Wilson, with
Secretary Raker. Secretary Tumulty
.and r>r. C. T. lirayson. the White House
phv?lcia.p left here at 2 o'clock for
Washington, where they will arrive at
1? o Ho k lo-trorrow afternoon.
SHiMFICA \T MKMOIIIAI.
f.i.och kvt or in-:Mocn.tt v
The President's address in full fol
lows :
"No more significant memorial could
have been presented to the nation than
this, ft expresses so much of what ia
singular and noteworthy In the history
of the country; it suRgeats so many of
the things that we prize most highly
in our life an'd in our system of gov
ernment. How eloquent this little
house within this shrine Is of the vigor
of democracy! There is no where in
the land any home so remote, so hum
ble. that It may not contain the power
of mind and heart and conscience to
which nations yield and history sub
mils Its processes. Nature pays no
tribute to aristocracy, subscribes to no
creed of caste, renders fealty to no
monarch or master of any name or
kind, 'lenius is no .snob. It does not
run after titles or seek by preference
the high circles of society. It affects
humble company as well as great, it
pays no special tribute to universities
or learned societies or conventional
standards of greatness, hut serenely
chooses its own comrades, its own
haunts. Its own cradle even, and Its
own life of adventure and of training.
Here is proof of it. This little hut was
the cradle of one of the great sons of
men, a man of singular, delightful,
vital genius who presently emerged
upon the great stage of the nation's
history, gaunt, shy. ungainly, hut dom
inant and majestic, a natural ruler of
men. himself inevitably the central fig
ure of the great plot. No man can
explain this, hut every man can see
how it demonstrates the vigor of de
mocracy, where every door Is open, In
every hamlet and countryside, in city
and wilderness alike, for Ihe ruler to
emerge when he will and claim his
leadership in the free life. Such are
the authentic proofs of the validity and
vitality of democracy.
I'l-ACK OF >1YSTV4IIV
AND or It 10A SSI It A xen
"Here, no less, hides (he mystery of
democracy. Who shall guess this
secret of nature and providence and a
free polity? Whatever the vigor and
vitality of the stock from which ho
sprang, its mere vigor and soundness
do not explain where this man got his
fjreat heart that seemed to comprehend
all mankind In Its catholic and benig
nant sympathy, the mind that sat en
throned behind those brooding, melan
choly eyes, whose vision swept many
an horizon which those about hitn
dreamed not of?that mind thut com
prehended what It had never .seen, and
understood tha language of affairs with
the ready eaeo of one to the manner
(Continued on Second Page.)
Republicans May
Oppose Swanson
Plans for Putting Candidate in
Field Will Be Discussed at
Alexandria To-Day.
(Special to The Times-Dlspat^h. 1
WASHINGTON. September 4.?Chair
i man C. Haseom Slemp to-day catlod a
| hurry meeting of the State Republican
Committee of Virginia to he held in
Alexandria to-morrow for the purpose
of discussing plans for opposing Sena
tor Claude A. Swanson for re-election.
, 1'Ians of Representati ve Slemp and
1 other Republican leaders to bring out
jan independent Democrat to oppose
j Senator Swanson have collapsed, and
the meeting to-morrow is for the pur
pose of agreeing upon a Republican
j candidate.
j There are a number of Republicans
; whose names will be considered at the
j meeting. They include D. Lawrenco
j tJroner. of Norfolk: Jacob Yost, of
i Staunton; S. Harry Hoge. of Roanoke;
R. H. Angel', of Roanoke; Jennings C.
? Wise, of Richmond, and Charles S.
Heerman. of Danville.
Senator Swanson was selected as the
Democratic candidate foi re-election
without opposition in his own party.
His election Is conceded even bv the
' Republics lis.
ONLY 39 NEW PLAGUE CASES
niK Ufrrriinf. Mnklnic Total Loup*l
Since June Mitrfn lipnlhn In
l.nst Twenty-Knur Honrs.
! ! I ?? Th? Timet - Disp 11 ch. 1
NKW YCiliK. September 4.?There
i were sixteen deaths from Infantile
paralysis In the lust twenty-four
hours, the lowest daily total since
Jul> IT In new cases, too. there was
a bin decrease, to-day's total being
thirty-nine, the lowest since June 2$,
when there were but twenty-elght.
Richmond Borough. f?>r the first
time since the inception of the plague,
was immune to-day. both from new
cases and deaths Hrooklyn records
show a steady decrease, while the slt
uution in Manhattan is stationary.
The total number of case? up to date
is 1.J36. and that of deaths, 2.
Starting to-day. the th'eatrrs are
permitted t-i admit children over
twelve years of age. ,
More than 4 3.0f<0 Federal health
' certificates have been jitued since Fed
eral Inspection started, according to
Senior Surgeon Charles K. Ranks, of
the 1'nlted States 1'itblic Health Ser
) Vice, in rharce "f the Interstate travel
i here.
The schools are expected to open
on September 2.V
FREIGHT MOVING AGAIN
j I.lftle ( onifrmtIon on ItHllrnudu Kilter
I nfc Vnv \nrk llriulia From
llrlrf Kmlivrgom.
NKW VuRK, September 4?Freight
tr%^llc on all railroads entering New
York, interrupted by embargoes due
to the fear of a strike. Is moving
again to-dny on normal schedule.
Railroad men say that little conges
tion has resulted from the hrief em
1 bargoes l.arge quantities of mer
chandise had been shipped Immediately
previous to the issuance of hold-up
orders.
"By Tuesday morning," said 1'. J.
Flynn. vice-president of the I-acka
wanna. "all the great arteries of
traffle will be operating oji a normal
basis?Just as if thare bad never been
any strike talk."
Provision dealers say that the niar
i ket will slump during the next few
days, because a large quantity of food
stuffs held by speculators in expecta
t tion of famine prices will be dumped
( on the market
RIOTING IN EL PASO
Sympafhir.er* In Strike of Street-Hall
way Trainmen In Clnxh 'With
Poller.
j KL I'ASO, TEX., September 4.?Street
? riots, in which sympathizers In a strike
of street-railway trainmen participated,
followed a I*ahor-Day parade here to
dav. Several cars operated by nnn
! union motormen and conductors were
i pulled from the rails and wrecked.
The local police were powerless
? against the mobs that filled the down
[ town streets and appealed to the militi.i
i for aid. General George Bel), Jr.. com
manding. replied that he was unable,
to interfere in a civil matter
The rioters were dispersed only after
a score had been arrested. Following
the rioting, street-railway traffic was
suspended and all saloons closed.
KING HIDES IN CELLAR
Ferdinand of nulRRrla Seekrt to \\oid
Ilangor Krom Airmen HcIoiikIhk
to Snlnnlkl Ann ten.
[Special ?'able to The Times-Dispatch.1
IjONDON, September 4.?"Kinsr Ferdi
nand of Bulgaria." says n wireless from
Zurich, "sleeps in a cellar lo avoid
danger from allied airmen belonging
to the Salonikl armies."
The dispatch adds that the King's
? alleged fear is similar to "the cow
jardice" he displayed in the Balkan War
j of 1012-13, when "he earned the ron
j tempt of his staff." The cellar which
I forms the King's present alleged hiding
place is said to be luxuriously fur
nished. It has a celling of steel plates
which are bombproof.
LAFAYETTE SHAFT UNVEILED
Ilron/.e Statue Presented to City of Kail
Itlver by Calumet
Club.
FADD RIVER, MASS., September A.?
A bronze statue of l>afayette, pre
sented to the city of Fall River by
the Ca)umet Club, was unveiled to-day,
following a parade in which thousands
of citizens participated. Many civic,
organizations, the local militia juwl
2,000 members of the Franco-American
Volunteer Brigade, a semi military body,
marched to Lafayette Park for the
unveiling ceremony, at which Ambas
sador Jules Jusseraiid, of France, de
livered the principal address.
Commends Achievements of Ad
ministration in Interests of
Labor Movement.
DEFENDS RAIL BROTHERHOODS
Unqualifiedly Denounces Any At
tempt at Legislation to Com
pel Arbitration.
I. KWrSTON. MK? September 4?!n
a l,nbor Day address here, Samuel
flompers, president of the American
I T'>ili.'ration of Labor, praised President
i Wilson's administration for its
achievements in the interests of the
'labor movement. a nd denounced the
j decisions of the Supreme f'ourt in the
Danbur.v hatters unci Arizona anti
alien law cas?-s, which. hi" pointed out,
wore participated in by fharles K.
Hughes. th- i:*-|)i>t>Iii ;i it president iul
nominee
| In a lengthy rlisrusyion r>f 111? threat
eneij railway strike, he defended the
attitude of t)j?? brotherhoods: and. while
lie praised President Wilson f'?r his
' efforts to settle the controversy. he
unqualifiedly denounced any attempt
at legislation to compel arbitration.
"The railroad brotherhoods have not
refused to accept arbitration," he said
"They have declared that the eight
hour workday Invoivs :i principle of
human welfare ili.it ..umol be dls
pu te?i, and. thercf'.i* ????iinot lie arbi
trated. The;, are willing to submit
every other issue. ;i 11 of which are
arbitrable, to a mutually satisfactory
[tribunal. In this position they are in
accord with every orcanization or
| organism that has ever declared for
I the principle of arbitration.
! COMIM'I.SOH V A It KITH Vl'ION
MMvF.S KMI'I.OUIKS DOW I V ATKD
I "Compulsory a rblt ration, or so-calb d
Investigation, is simply a way to re
I strain free necessary action on the
part of the wage-earners. and to make
theni more easily dominnted by em
ployers I? only makes the striker a
criminal and civs authority for jail
ing workers who quit work."
Referring to labor conditions in pen
era!. Mr. flump* rs said:
"l.aimr May, September. i!*!0. finds
the trade-union in'iveinent of the
V'nited Stat*" in a stronger position
tiian ever before. The labor movement
jmeans something more than demands
for more money and shorter workdays,
it means the id en Is which these de
inandr represent. The labor movement
represents the preat desire of the
masses of people for more freedom.
, for Justice, for a better and a higher
life.
"As the labor movement progresses
slowly t li ere have emerged principles
j of humanity. freedom and justice.
There is not a demand of labor that
does not represent years of suffering,
struggle and heart-burniiiK desire."
NOT LIKE CAVELL CASE
K&ecllfioii of l-'eHer I'faat Ordered
\ffcr Woman Admit* IIcIiik
Crrmnil S|iy,
J'AKIS, September t?In \ iew of r?
: i.crit 'liTiiian comment -n the execution
at Marseilles recently, as a spy. of
Felloe Pfaat. certain detail of the
case w re made known authoritatively
lu-re t *? 'iay. The statement that tiie
ui iuan v as a German is denied. :<;d it
was said tliat the comparison of her
? use <v'll? that of Kd'iin < avell. the
British nurse, who was put to death by
Germans at Brussels, was unwar
? ranted. According to titis information.
; Felice Pfa?. t was a French .voman.
born at Xancv in 1S90. Slie went to
Metz In ISM. and later received per
i mission to visit her mother in Bel
gium. "While there, it is said, a (Jer
inan oflitial proponed that she gather
military information in Paris. She
spent three weeks in Paris, and then
reported the results to Hermans, who.
she admitted, paid her 5,000 francs to
undertake another mission
Heturning to Paris from Switzer
land in .1 iiI> of last year, she was ex
pelled by i he prefect of polio . Sin
went to Marseilles, where she boarded
at a house frequented by army oHloers.
j She was caught In tlie act. of spying,
j and admitted she had been commis
sioned to gather military information.
On .luly 10 she was unanimously ?.on
, demned to death by court-martial.
i HELD ON GERMAN WARRANT
? Willi \rre*lcd In .terse} f ll> < Imigeil
\\ I*It Murder Four 1 fur*. \go
In I'ruKMln.
.1 HUSKY CITV, N. J.. September I. ?
j Wadislati Kubicci. living with hist w if<
| and two children her\ was arrested to
dav on :t warrant brought to tills coun
| try by the German merchant submarine
| Deutschland. which ciiargeil lutr with
! tiu. murder of Valerie Klosoynrka.
j four years. ago in Mecklenbui -
I Schwerin. Prussia The .vouns woman
; was choked to deatli, and her hodv
thrown in a pond, the warr.uit allege.-,
after she had (|uarrele<l with the oris
oner's wife, and hnd caused her arrest
The body was found a year after the
| slaying, when the pond into which it
i had been thrown dried up.
i Kxtrndit ion proceedings will be be
gun to-morrow.
; AIR RAIDS OVER BELGIUM
.Shipbuilding \ nrds at llolioken. Near
Antwerp, Siieernsfiilly
Ilotnhnrded.
tiONDON, September 4.- -Two more
British air raids over Belgium ii/ive
been made successfully, ii was an
nounced officially to-day in the fol
lowing statement:
"(in Saturday I lie shipbuilding yards
at lloboUen. near Antwerp, were suc
cessfully boniba riled by iiavtil ncro
plll lies.
"On Suntlay I lie enemy aerodrome at
fJliistelles t eleven miles southwest of
Bruges) was bombarded by a largo
squadron ?>f our machines. All re
turned in safety In both casos."
/
Each Must Respect
Rights of Other
Members of American-Mexican
Commission Hear How Agree
ment May Be Reached.
Ni:\V YORK, September 4.?The i?o?? -
sunal rights ami economic interests <>!
Americans' in Mexico must be censiil
creii in rencbiiiK il permanent settle
ment of the dltlleultles between the
Unlte?l Slf.tfS anil Mexico, Secretary of
State l,anstng i?I here to-day in an j
address at a luncheon attemleil t>v
mcmli'jrs of ttie American-Mexican1
Joint < 0111 m ission. Conferences look -
j inn toward a solution of the Interna
! tional problems which conftont the
two countries are to begin sliortly at
New London, Conn.
Secretary Lansing declared that "if
; suspicion, doubt and aloofness" marked
the coining deliberations, the commis
sion rnii;lit ? xpect to accomplish little,
'and would leave the two nation* "in
the same tangle of misunderstandings
and false judgments which I feel have
been the chief reasons for our contto
versies in the past."
Luis Cabrera, chairman of the Mex
ican commission, in reply, said the re
sult his commission fecks is the same
sought by the American delegates, and
that the mutual spirit of harmony
might he inferred f?-om the notes ex
changed ri.i'eni ;y between the two
government -
Franklin K l.aue. Secretarj "f the
Interior, who is ciiaii'tiiati of tiie Amer
ican commission, told the .Mext>- n
delegates that the rights of Mexico
would be respected, and that the
Cnited States would expect Mexico to
respect American- rights.
CONGRESS NEARING END
Lender* I'repitrr .lolnt Revolution for
\ il Jon rmiM-n I on \\ e?lne?tiln .v
Cvenlnc.
W ASH LN'i JTi iN, September 4.?Con
cress is windins up its affairs for the
session and plattnlng to adjourn either
; on Wednesday or Thursday. Republi
can leaders in the Senate cave assur
ances to-night that the emergency rev
enue bill, last of the l>ic measures on
the administration program, could he
passed to-morrow, and House leaders
predicted that a conference report on
amendments would he ready for dis
position in both houses some time Wed
nr - da y.
Although Senator Simmons, chairman
"f the Finance Committee. had hoped
to pass the reventic bill to-night, he
said there still was a good prospect of
adjournment on Wednesday, despite the
' fact that another day will have to bo
devoted to the measure. Democratic
' leaders prepared a joint resolution for
adjournment on Wednesday evening at
t? o'clock, and Majority Leader Kit rl.ln"
is planning to submit it in the House
for passage to-morrow if word ionics
from the Senate that business can he
concluded l>y that time. An effort \o
l>;is- the revenue bill to-night was
blocked b> Republicans, who said they
w .tild yield for a final vote to-morrow.
Senator Cnderwjod to-day made his
fight against the administration plan
to impose Increased duties on dye
stuff's after the Kuropean war. The
Senate sustained the administration
plan. 4.1 to Senators voting against
it being Rankhead. Bryan. I.ane, Over
man. I Iced. I tiderwood and Vardatnan,
all I lemocrats.
To-morrow the Senate will complete
onside-atlon of the section of the hill
to create a tariff commission. It then
will act on the amendment by Senator
l.ewis embodying the Wehh hill to per
mit the formation of American collec
tive selling agencies in foreign coun
tries. The hill then will be ready for
a finaI vote
SCHOOL TO BE DOUBLED
Ilttinlreil* of \viator* >\lll lie I'rcpnrrii
for Service lit Newport
N C ?VH.
NKW I?RT N'lOWS. V \ . September
4 ?Captain Tiiomas S Baldwin. head
r.f the Atlantic'Coast Aeronautical Sta
tion. to-dny announced that nearly half
of the 1.0'in men to he trained for ser
vice in the aviation corps of the Cnited
States vegulat service will be taught
here. The capacity of the station will
he doubled within the next month. The
first of the army students is due on
September 1 5.
Five of the army and navj olllcers
to wliich the government has intrusted
tise work of reorganizing the army and
navy aerial service already are study
ing there. They are Captains Milling
and Harnes, Lieutenant Rronson. Naval
Constructor Richardson and Major
.Mitchell. They decline to make public
'at this time detailed plans for the re
1 organiv.ation of the service.
The recruits for the aerial service
will ne drawn from coiiege graduates
of high standing. After they have
completed the aviation course here
under the supervision of dyers of the
i army anil navy. Captain Baldwin will
decide whether tliej are proficient
enough) to enter the government ser
vice.
ACTS TO PRESERVE PARTY
I oi'uaiil/.iitlon Committer \ppidnted l?v
\cttiiK '"hnlrmnn of Prnurr**!*e
I'ii r I j .
XI0W YORK, September 1 \n or
ganization committee of fifteen liar
been appointed by Matthew Hale, of
itofton, acting chairman of the S*;>
tional Progressive party, it was an
nounced here to-day, to co-operate with
tlu fifteen "loyal" members of she
old Progressive committee in taking
such steps as nay be advisable to pro
serve the Progressive party.
in a statement Mr. llale says he
was authorized to make the appoint
ments at the Progressive conference
held recently in Indianapolis. The
statement reads further that the com
mitteemen "will protect" the Interest/)
of the Progressive party candidate for
Vice-President, John N. Parker, In
thono States where Parker electors
shall he placed upon the ballot."
JAPAN MAKES NEW |
DEMANDS! CHINA i
Threatens Authority of Peking j
Government Over Whole of
Inner' Mongolia.
MAY CLASH WITH OPEN DOOR
Washington Officials Fear An- i
other Crisis, Which Might In
volve Interests of U. S.
ASIflNCTOX. September 4 ?Se, ret
demands in ?ddili?>ti~t<> those published
io-d'iy in dispatches from Ivklnu are
being pressed on China l>v Japan. as n
result of the rr-ront clash of Chinese
and Japimpse troops at Cheng Chia- I
tun It became known here to-night j
? hat tlie situation is much more serl- !
? ?us than lias been indicated, conflden
tial reports saying tin- unpublished '
demands threaten the authority of
china over the whole of inn. r Mon- !
Koiia.
?"?ffn-inls li^rc view thdevelopment j
with real anxiety, fearinp another 1
<?iiino.japnnc.se crisis, which might in. j
v" ? the interests of the United;
Sta;es. The Cheng Chlatun incident,
trivial 5?? itself, hut coming on top of
tli' strained relations over since Japan
took <>v- r Kiauchau front Germany,
has I."en closely watched since Japan
liastcmd t?> send 'J.Ortn soldiers to tlie
disturbed districts, and her Cabinet nn- j
n?unced that a satisfactory "outcome )
depended on China. Reports from
Peking show alarm there. Th? prompt
end unanimous acceptance of the new
Cabinet. announced to-day. is believed '
to have been a result of the serious- i
ri-ss of the Japanese and fltuincial '
problems.
I>KMANI> l-'OH KXTKNfHOV OP
.IAPANKSK I'OI.M K ItlUHTS j
Japan's demands as published call ;
for dismissal of Chinese officers in J
command of the troops at the seen1* j
of tl\e trouble, withdrawal of the j
Chinese garrison. indemnification of I
the families of the Japanese killed 1
and extension of Japanese police rifrlits j
to inner Mongolia.
Actual accounts of the dispute vary, j
The Chinese claim it arose when Jap
anese soldiers attacked the Chinese
Harrison at t'li^nc t'hiatun, and seized
both the local magistrate and a Jap
onese merchant who had refused to !
obey instruction's bv the I'hinese lie- j
cause bandits were operating in the j
city. The Japanese contend the I
Chinese arrested the merchant illegal
ly. and tired on a small body of Jap
anese troops sent to investigate.
About fifty Chinese and seventeen
Japanese troops were (tilled.
The secret demands are believed here
to seek extension ?<< inner Mongolia
of rights which already have been won
in South Manchuria. In both places !
China is forbidden, under the treaty
of May S. 1915, to raise a foreign loan
on lo.-ai taxes without Japan's con- !
sent, and forced to consult Japan in I
ease she cannot, raise money herself j
for the railroads there. Beyond that,
however, the Japanese in South Man
churia have unlimited rights of travel,
residence, trade and leasing of land,
together with the right of trial he
fore a Japanese consul in civil and
criminal cases where a Japanese is .
defendant, the right of opening and
operating specified mines, and prefer- :
ence in case foreign advisers are i
sought in military, political, police or j
financial matters.
A\\|IMM.V UVAIT ItlOPOItT
o\ si:ciii:t mouotiatiovs |
.Vone of the demands as published in
fringes upon any right of the I'nited )
States, oflk-ials think, but a report on |
the secret uef*otiations will lie awaited
with concern, as they may conflict with
|'.he open-door policy and the integrity
of china. Except for the possibility j
of American interference, it is pointed i
out. Japan practically has a free hand !
in China, as the I'Juropenn powers are |
too fully occupied at home to devote j
| much attention to the Par Kast.
The report of secret demands recalled
to diplomats the famous twenty-one
demands made on China by Japan oil
January IS. 1915, the existence of |
which was denied for several weeks.
| A version containing nil demands
j finally was given out by the Japanese
I embassy in l.ondon, omitting the vital
(?roup Kive. on April 25 a revised list
! was published, and on May 7 Japan ]
Sent a forty-eight-hour ultimatum,
! which was acceded to the next day.
METHODIST MINISTER SHOT
llllii Willi \\ lio*e Wife \\ ronuilnlnun
Were \llee,ed llelil on Chiiritr
of Murder.
1,1II Ml N'<! 11A M. AI.A.. September 4.-? |
| The (lev. J. K. Harrison, a Methodist i
i minister, was shot and Killed on Sat
' urday at Sit tidy Grove, Ala., by shots
alleged to have been fired from the
| home of Will Trotter, according to a
| report received here to-dny. Trotter.
who Is in the Troy jail, charged with
[murder, is said to have confessed to'
the shooting, with the claim that he ?
"was fully justitled."
Harrison, who is said to have been'
suspended from his ministerial duties !
1 at Shady Grove, was awaiting a heat?
| ing September S before a committee
I of ministers on charges of misconduct,
j The charges, it is said, connected Har
rison's alleged wrongdoings with the
mime of Trotter s wife, organist in the
I minister's church.
RICHARD C. KERENS DEAD
Former AinliawMiidor to Atinlrln lOiplren
\\ hile on \ InIi to DiiiiRhter
In Philadelphia.
ST. liOUIS. MO., September 4.?
Richard C. Kerens, of St. I,ouis, former
ambassador to Austria, died at the
home of his daughter in Philadelphia
to-day, according to a dispatch re- '
eel veil here.
lUnromfort of liny Perer Ik greatly re
lieved by using louden'* Menthol Candy
CnUKh Drops. Make brenthlnif easier and
hoal air passacea. bo t very where.?Adv.
Inquiry Into Effect
of 8 -H ou r Da y Law
Reed Introduces Resolution
Authorizing Investigation and
Report by I. C. C.
Washington, Septcmifr ?.s^na- !
tor Ueed. ?>f Missouri, to-day intro- j
duced ? resolution to uuthorize the '
Interstate Commerce Commission to i
in vest iga t ?? the effect of the. elght
hour-day law on lh?> ??ost of operation j
of railroads and to report to Congress j
in December. The resolution will be j
vailed up Tor consideration to-morrow.
Senators Simmons and Martin and I
Majority header Kitchin, of the House.!
agreed to-day the House should pass!
a Joint resolution for adjournment of
(*?uiKress at 6 o'clock on Wednesday
ev?-nuiK. The Senate will defer action j
on Hie resolution until it determines I
that all necessary business can lie com- j
pletcd l>y that time.
Senator Simmons said an effort would :
he made to pass the. revenue bill be- t
fore adjournment. to-night if possible, I
ao ih,. conferees would have Tuesday !
and Wednesday to complete their re- J
port on Senate amendments.
KING LAUDS SHACKLETON
Hejnlce* llirr Itrwur of K?|?l?rer'? j
(nnirailcs and 1'rnlnc* Conduct
of Tender.
I Special Cable to The Times-Dispatch.1 ;
l.oNDON, September 4.?The official j
pi-p^s bureau to-day guve out the text
of telegrams exchanged between Sir
Krnest Shackleton and King Georgo.
A message sent by Shackleton to the .
King's private secretary from Punta j
Arenas read as follows:
M request you to convey to the King '
with my humble respects tl;e tollow- J
tun: Acceding to my request, the.
Chilean government placed at my dis- .
posal a steamer officered. manned and i
equipped. In this, with the aid of I'rov- ;
id* nee, we rescued all of our twenty- j
two comrades. They were all well, i
and we conveyed to them His Majesty's j
gracious message of June last. They re- i
spectfully that.U the King for Ills |
Majesty's kindly interest.
"I desire, if it be in order, to add j
that the care and well-being arn prl- \
mnrlly due to the qualities of leader- j
ship, the tact and force of character, j
of Frank Will, commander of the
party."
The Kinu to-day telegraphed to Sir
Krnest as follows:
"I most heartily rejoice over the
fact that you have-rescued your twen
ty-two comrades and that all are well.
I congratulate you upon the result of
your determined efforts to save them,
and that success has crowned your
third attempt.
"I greatly admire the conduit of
their lender, Frank Will, which was no
Instrumental in maintaining their cour
age and hope. I trust that you ^ 111
soon bring them all safely home.
"KINC5 GKORGK. I!. T."
TO BE BURIEDWITH HONORS
Full Military Funeral* for lierman Mr- ;
men Mtiot l>o\*n While Hnldlng
F.Dglnnit\
1 .ONDON. September .">.?Officers ar.d
men of the-German airship destroyed
Saturday night while raiding Kngland
will be buried with full military lion - j
ors. Details of the funeral have not:
been settled, but the bodies probably
will be put in separate gmves in aj
churchyard near the spot where found
after the airship fell.
Kncb body will be placed in an oak
collin, covered \*itb a German ting",
and carried to the burial place on a
vuii carriage. fSrttish soldiers will
? otnpove tlie l.ring party, and a Brit
ish army chaplain will conduct the
.??erv'Cft.
"Kver.v British airman hilled in no
tion over the Get man lines." say? ono
of the morning newspapers, "hns re
ceived the honors ol a military fu
icral."
An inquest over ibe bodies w;r- held
yesterdav at Guff ley.
The oul> new .levdopnient in con
nect ion v ith the nivl comes from the
east coast. It is a report that wreck
are. apparently that of the gondola of
another airship, had been found. It
is believed to be part of a Zeppelin
?-?hot awaj b.\ coast defense guns.
REINSPECT BATTLESHIP
.Not Known W'liy DrendtioiiKlit I'enn-j
hx I \ ii it I ii In to t'nrterjto Second
Kiiimlnn t ton.
XKWI'ollT NlOWS. VA.. September
4.?The battleship Pennsylvania en-[
tered Hampton Koads to-day and joined
the other ships of the Atlantic Fleet. f
The navnl board of inspection to-mor- :
row will reinspect the Pennsylvania.!
The cause or occasion for the inspcc- j
tlon is not known here.
The battleship Florida left for 'lie,
Southern drill grounds to-ilay. The |
remainder of the ships are expected i
to leave for the drill grounds to-mor-|
row afternoon or Wednesday morning, j
When the new Dreadnoughts Penn
sylvania and Oklahoma join the At-;
lantlc Fleet in target practice in j
Tangier Sound. I'hcsapeake Pay. after
the work on the Southern drill grounds
the antiaircraft gun* on the new ships j
will be tried out. For this work a num- j
her of large box kites have been con-!
structcd at the Norfolk Navy-Yard.
VON SCHENK ARRESTED
Director of (German Propaganda in !
(?recce Tiikrii on Ftonrd F.n
trnlr t'riilmeV.
ATIIF.NS. September ?< (via l.oudou,
September < >. Huron von Selienk, ,
chief director of the German propa
ganda in Greece, has been arrested and
taken on hoard a cruiser of the en
tente allies. Sixteen additional war
ships of tlio entente powers have ar
rived at Piraeus.
Diplomats of tl*c entente allies had
demanded that Baron von Schenk and
sixty coworkers In behalf of the cen
tral empires be expelled from Greece.
It was reported that li? had barrie-aded
himself in hlB house in Athena and
surrounded it with a score of armed
guards and his friends to protect him.
GAIN IMPORTANT
GERMAN POSITIONS
IN SOMME REGION
Anglo-French Forces Again
Drive Their Lines
Forward.
FRESH PROGRESS EAST
OF VILLAGE OF.FOREST
This Advance Seemingly Out
flanks Combles and Apparently
Renders It Untenable.
H K A V V FIGHTING IX RUSSIA
Roumanians Continue ( o Press Ad
vantage Against Austrians on
Transylvania Front.
T.OXIxi.V. September * ---Keeping' up
their strong- offensive against the Ger
mans north ami south of th? Somme
River, in Franco. the Anglo-French
forces have again driven their lines
for*aril ami cajrtured important Ger
man position?.
South of I lie Somme the village of
Soyecourt anil part of the village of
Vermandovlllers have hern captured,
while, seemingly more important still,
the French have made fresh progress
east of the village of Forest, which
lies one ami one-half miles southeast
of the railroad town of C'ombles?a
gain which, taken with the capture of
Ouillemont on Sunday, seemingly out
flanks Combles and apparently renders
It untenable. More than 5.000 Germans
have been made prisoner north and
Kouth of the Somme during the last two
days.
On the llritisli right wing progress is
reported north of Falemont farm, while
a German attack near the Mouquat
farm was repulsed. In the Verdun
sector I'aris records a fresh gain near
Fleury.
Berlin, in admitting tho claims of
British and French successes in tho
fighting of Sunday In the Sotnme region,
says Hi.? battling: over tho eighteen
mile military front from Beaumont to
the Somme was of the greatest ferocity.
The. Germans held their ground at
Thiepval, north of Pozlercs. and near
Ginchy, hut Guillemont village and
wood were lost, as likewise was Ginchy,
hut a counterattack of the Germans
won hack a portion of the latter town.
nrssiAX* advancing
TO HUNG A HI AX FltOXTIER
Again there is heavy lighting on tho
front in Russia. west and southwest of
l.utsk and north of Zhorow and near
r.rezezany, in Galicia. with the Rus
sians generally the aggressors. Petro
trrad controverts the assertion of Ber
lin that the Russians obtained only
local successes near Brezezany by tho
declaration that the Russians won a
victory over the Teutons and took 2,6-11
prisoners. In tho Carpathian region,
according to Petrograd. the Russians
have captured an entire, series ot
heights and are advancing to the Hun
garian frontier.
All along tho Transylvania front the
Roumanians continuo to press their ad
vantage against Ae Austro-Hungarla n
forces. Here they captured several ad
ditional towns, and now are said to Is
bombarding the town of Hermnnnstadt,
which is second ill Importance only to
Kronstadt. The German and Bulgarian
forces are attucking along the entire
front between Dobrudja and Bulgaria*
Near Koemar, Berlin reports, the Rou
manians were driven back with the loss
of TOO men taken prisoner. .
In Albania tlio Italians east of Avion*
have taken the villages of Kutal an<l
Brlzar and Monte Gradlst.
Tho Germans have surrendered to
tho British Dar-es-Salaain. Germany's
chief seaport in East Africa.
Considerable fighting is in progress
In tho Austro-Itallan theater, without
any important changes In terrain hav
ing occupied. Berlin admits the loss
of an airship on the night of September
2. It Is probable that this was tho
Zeppelin which London reported was
brought down during the raid on th*j
east coast of England Saturday night.
Ill11*11 AMANS OCCUPY
TWO TOWNS IX Til VXSVIVAM V
nUKHABEST. September :5 (via Lon
don, September i).?Tho lloumaninn
War Ollice announced to-day that Rou
manian troops have occupied Jiorszek
and Sekeli, in Transylvania. The Teu
tonic Bulgarian allies have been re
pulsed at HasardJIk, in Dobrudja, but
elsewhere continue their uttack a Ion
Die whole frontier between Dobrudja.
and Bulgaria.
A raid by three hostile hydroaero
planes upon the city ?f Constanza, on
the Roumanian coast, of the Black Sea,
I with the wounding of several civilian3
and children, is announced. The of
ficial statement says:
"On our northern and northwestern
fronts, after somewhat lively lighting,
we occupied the locality of Itorszek
a nil the heights west of that town.
We captured four officers and 150 men,
and entirely occupied the Inhabited
region of Sekeli (Sz L?elek), in liar
monszek.
"ftn the southern front the enemy
attacked along the whole. Dobrudja
frontier south of Ha.^rdjllc, hut was
r> pulsed o?? the remainder o? tho
front (Jo- lighting continues.
"The i-m-my bombarded Islacjs and
Kala fat.
"Three hostile hydroaeroplanes
dropped bombs on t'onstanza. Several
children and civilians were wounded."
The towns of Borszek and Sz I^clek
ar>: in the extreme eastern portion of
Transylvania, and the first named is
the most frequented watering place In
that province, ami is situated In a
romantic valley of tho eastern Car
pathians. It exports great quantities
of mineral water, and has a popula
tion of 1,600.
Rasardjlk Is a fortified town, In the
extreme southeastern portion o(
