THE ARIZONA REPUBLICAN
AN INDEPENDENT PROGRESSIVE JOURNAL
10 PAGES - 31VU ENIX, ARIZONA, TUESDAY MORNING, SEPTEMBER 5, 1916
TWENTY-SEVENTH YEAB
10 PAGES
.VOL. XXVII., NO. 109
ANGLO-FRENCH
FORCES
MAKE
MPORTANT
(GAMS
BRITISH ID FRENCH KEEP UP
STRONG DFFEHSIVETQNORTH AND
SOUTH DF SOIUtME RLVER IN FRANCE
Candidate Hughes Invades Democratic
Stronghold
(By Republican Associated Press Leased Wire)
Keeping uo their strong offensive against the Germans north and south
of the Somme river in France, the Anglo-French forces again have driven
their lines forward and captured important German positions.
South of the Somme, the village of Soyecourt and part of the village of
Vermandovillers have been captured, while seemingly more important still, the
French have made fresh progress east of the village of Forest, which lies one
and one-half miles southeast of the railroad town of Combles a gain, which
taken with the character of Guillemont on Sunday, seemingly outflanks Com
bles and apparently renders it untenable. More than 5,000 Germans have
been made prisoners north and south cf the Somme during the last two days.
On the British right wing progress is ifported north of Falfemont farm,
while a German counter attack northeast of Moquet farm was repulsed. In
the Verdun sector, Paris records fresh aains near Fleury.
Berlin, in admitting the claims of British and French successes in the
fighting of Sunday in the Somme region, says the battling over the 18-mile
front from Beaumont to the Somme was of the greatest ferocity. The Ger
mans held their ground at Thiepval, north of Pozieres, and near Ginchy, but
Guillemont village and wood were lost, as likewise was Ginchy, but a counter
attack of the Germans won back a portion of the latter town.
Again there is heavy firing on the front in Russia, west and southwest
of Lutsk, and north of Zborow, and near Brezezzany, in Galicla, with the Rus
sians generally the angressors. Petrograd controverts the assertion of Berlin
that the Russians obtained onl local successes near Brezezany, bv the t!ec
laraction that the Russians won a virtory over the Teutons hero and took
2.641 prisoners in the Carpathian repion. According to Petrograd the Rus
sians have captured an entire terics of heights and are advancing to the Hun
garian frontier.
Along the Transylvania front the Rumanians continue to press their ad
vantage against the Austro-Hungarians. Here they have captured additional
towns and now are said to be bombarding the town of Hermanstadt, which is
second in importance only to Kronstsc't. The German and Bulqarian forces
re attackina along the entire front between Dobrudja and Bulgaria. Near
Koemar, Berlin reports, the Rumanians were driven back with the loss of 700
men taken prisoner.
In Albania, the Italians east of Avlona have taken the villages of Kutai
and Brizar and Monte Gradist.
The German have surrendered to the British Dar-Es-Salaam, Germany's
chief seaport in East Africa.
Considerable fi'-htinq is in progress in the Auitro-Italian theater but with
out any important changes in territory havinq occurred. Berlin admits the
loss of an alrshio the ninht ef Seni ber 2. It is probable that this was the
Zeppelin which London reported was brought down during the raid on the
east coast of England Saturday night.
LINCOLN'S HOME IS GIFT TO THE NATION ATTACKS THE
SI Hill II I:
Bloody Battle Goinq On
FARIS, Sept. 4. "A bloody battle
Is going on on both tmnks of the
Somme." says the official communi
oatiim issued tonight. "The French
have- made fresh progress .east of the
village of Forest north of the river,
rind on the youth have successfully
Mtncked o ilectives alone a front of
twenty kilometers M2 1-2 miles) from
"The village of Soyecourt was brill
ianu r:irrrt by assault, as 'veil as
v of Vetmnnciovillers. More than
.ri,000 prisoners hove been taken north
an'l south of the Somme in the last
two flay.
"Progresr. also was made on the
right bark of the Meuse (Verdun
sector) in the Fleury region."
British Are Elated
WITH THE BRITISH ARMY IN'
FRANCE, Sent. 4. As fuller reports
rome in. there ts general elation at
nrmv headquarters over the results
of the British and French attacks
against the German positions in the
Kemnne retrion.
A chill, heavy rain is falling this
morning, drerichine the .German pris
oners ir. the colec'.ing stations and
the wounded who are still being
brought off the field. On most part
of the line, the nisht was one of
continuous fighting.
The Germans had massed great
forces against the British and re
sponded wi'h promot counter attacks
under cover of an immense volume of
artillery -fire. British gur.s laid their
sheets of crashing blasts on the Ger
man trenches up to th- very moment
that the British infantry reached
them, and. no sooner were the in
fantrv in the German trenches, than
the Germans turned the same kind
of a hurricane on them.
With every action, the artillery
seems to become more powerful.
FORMER AMBASSADOR
TO AUSTRIA IS DEAD
PHILADELPHIA. Sept. 4.
Richard C. Kerens, of St. Iyjuis,
former ambassador to Austria,
died at the home) of his daughter
here today.
ST. LOT IS. Sept. 4 The body I
I
of Richard C. Kerens, former am
fbassador to Austria-Hungary will
I be brought . to St. Louis on a I
special train due to arrive at I
Union station at 8 o'clock to- I
morrow morning. Mr. Kerens I
died today at Merion. Pa., at the. I
home cf his daughter. Mrs. G. 1
Hamilton Colnet. i
- U
GOIPERS HAS
T
LACE OF
E
I T
PRAISE ERR THE
iTRAT
captured, but the British were com
pelled to give ground, retaining hold of
part of the village despite heavy
counter attacks in the course of the
night.
More than $00 Germans were taken
prisoners.
Germans Claim Victory
BERLIN, Sept. 4. (Via London)
In an extensive and bitter battle de
veloping from the Anglo-French at
tacks begun yesterday the Germans
retained mastery over all their posi
tions on boih sides of the Ancre brook
and recaptured ground which they had
lost near Mouqua farm, south of the
Somme. German artillery broke down
French attacks except in the sectors
southwest of Barleaux.
Between Ginchy and the River
Somme, the GermanB first positions,
which were entered by the British, and,
the statement says, stemmed the at
tack on the second line. Guillemont
and Fore3t were captured by the Ger
mans. m
After violent fighting yesterday,
Mount Plunka. southwest of Rafael -vo,
in the Carpathians, was taken by
the Russians.
German and Bulgarian troops, which
had crossed the southeastern frontier
of Rumania between the River Danube
and the Black sea, advanced yesterday,
says the official statement issued to
day by German army headquarters.
Near Koemar and Bimiki the Bul
garian cavalry drove back the Ru
manian infantry, capturing 110 Rumanians.
Capture German Defenses
LONlON, Sept. 4. As the result of
the fighting yesterday north of the
River Somme in France, says the Brit
ish official statement issued today.
British troops captured German de
fenses on a 3000-yard front for an
average depth of X00 yards and in
cluding the village of Guillemantt.
HONORS FOR LEV1NSKY
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
EAST CHICAGO, Ind., Sept. 4.
Ringside critics gave Battling Levin
sky the honors in his ten round bout
wnn K. u. Brown of Chicago
today.
here
M'DERMOTT IS CHAMPION
I Republican A.- P. Leased Wire)
ST. LOUIS, Sf.pt. 4. Michael
McDermott. of the Illinois A. C. Chi
cago, won the national marathon
aquatic championship in the annual
ijthor day event of the Missouri
Athletic Association here this after
noon. He made the ten miles in one
The whole of Ginchy at first was hour, 4.r minutes and 4,'t 2-5 seconds
RIOTING FOLLOWS LABOR DAY
, CELEBRATIUN III EL PASU
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
LEW IST IN'. Me., Sept. 4.-In a
Labor day address here Samue.:
Gomuers. president of the American
Federation of Labor, praised 1 resi
dent Wilson's administration for his
achievements in the interest of the
labor movement and denounced the
decisions of the supreme court in the
Danfcury halters' and Arizona anti
alien law cases, which, ho pointed
out, were participated In by Charles
E. Hjghes, the republican presidential
nominee.
In a lengthy discussion of 'the
threatened railway strike, he de
fended the attitude of the brother
hoods ind while he raistd President
Wilson for his efforts to settle the
controversy, he unqualifiedly de
nounced an v attempt at. legislation
to compel arbitration.
ti, ,iem:iiul of the railroad broth
erhoods in a clearcut issue," said he.
"They now make the simple demand
that their lives and their physical
well being shall be protected am!
that they fhail be requited to work
only Bitch a reasona-jle period of time
as Industrial experience has shown
to be expedient. The eight-hour day
has been uimersally accepted by
ocletv The eight-hour workman is
a better, a more resourceful, a more
productive worker than the one who
labors long hours.
"The railroad brotherhoods have not
refused to accept arbitration. They
have declared that the eight-hour
virk day involves a principle of
human welfare and therefore cannot
disputed. They ara willing to
submit every other issue, all of which
are arbitrable, to a mutual satisfact
ory tribunal.
"The railroad men presented their
demands and mada their fight in a
simple direct manner. They have
relied entirely upon their economic
organization. The have not sought
any special privilege, any leeal pro
tection, or endeavored to utilize an
governmental agency to establish
their Just demands. They have se
cure,:! attention and won favor to
their cause because, hack of their con
tentions, was an organization that
represented power and service.
"Compulsory arbitration, or so-eall,-ed
investigation, Is simply a way to
restrain free, necessary action on the
part of the wage earners and to make
them more eisily domiwted !V em
Hovers. It only makes the striker a
criminal and'ives authority for jail
inv urnrlcw who auit work.
"Fmployers appreciate the import
ance nl tne snorter wun u.u. j tj
know that it means inuepenuem
workmen, workmen not so readily
held in submission. It is necessary
f...- ii.o nmtpctinn and the best inter-
nt the workers, to whom the
law will applv as well as to all of the
workers of the state, that every man
shall do iiis best, that every woman
in Maine Bhall aid to secure the ap
proval of this act."
CONGRESS WINDING UP
AFFAIRS OF SESSION
All
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
EL PASO Texas, Sept. 4. Rioting
nn outgrowth of a strike of street
railway trainmen in progres here, fol
lowed a Labor Day parade today.
The rioters attacked several street
'cars being operated by strike break
ers in the downtown streets, wrecked
the cars and beat the trainmen. A
dozen perrons were arrested on
charges of inciting riot and it is esti
mnted that at least fifty persons were
Injured in the street fighting.
Ill feeling between strikers and op
eratives who took their places when
the strike was called two months ago,
manifested , on several occasions re
cently, reached a climax today in a
fist fight on n downtown street be
tween a striker and an employe of
the street railway company. The
Keneral disturbance followed.
For a time it seemed as though the
municipal police force, re-inforced by
a detachment of Texas Rangers,
would be powerless to quell the mobs.
Finally, however, after several hours
of disturbance in which rioting took
place on almost all of
streets snd street railway traffic
been suspended, the mobs
vostguard patrolling the streets was
strengthened and several companies
of Infantry were kept in reserve to
prevent any untoward incidents
which might tend to complicate the
international situation. Karly tonight
the authorities expressed the belief
that the situation was under control.
Only a half dozen rars were' run
lonignt in i lace of the normal num
oi ioriv or more Theun enru
were well protected by armed -police
and rangers.
NO MORE "OBEY"
IN THE RITUAL
CHICAGO, Sept. 4. The com
mission appointed to revise the
ritual of the Protestant Episeo
pal church has determined to
eliminate the word "obey" from I
the marriage ceremony, it was .
learned here today. Radical
changes were propound In the ten
commandments, the burial and
I baptismal services and in me i
I arrangement of various prayers. I
: n
Secret Demands Are Being
Pressed on China by Japs
When traffic was resumed n poi'ce
man armed with pistols and a shot
gun, and ordered to shoot anyone in
terfering with the cars was detailed
, to protect each crew.
Meanwhile, all saloons In the city
were closed until further notice' and
military authorities ordered all sol
diers, stationed in this district to
utay in their camps. Tonight the pro-
Republlcan A. P. Leased Wire
WASHINGTON, Sept. 4. Secret
demands in addition to those puhlish-
the business ed in dispatches from Peking are be-
-t.u nan ing i iesscii on i nina by Japan as a
dispersed, result of the recent clash of Chinese
and Japanese troops at Cheng Chia
tun. It became known here tonight
that the situation is much more seri
ous than has been indicated, con
fidential reports savinir the unnuh-
lished demands threaten the authority
of China over the whole nf lunar
Moncolia.
Officials here, view the development
with real anxiety, fearing another
Chlnn-.TannncKO crisis which migl'l
involve the interests of the United
Stntes. The Cheng Chiatun incident
trivial in Itself, but coming on top of
the strained relations ever since jap
an took over iwaocnow nom un
many, has been closely watched since
Japan hastened to send 2.000 sol
diers to the- disturbed district ano"
her cabinet announced that a satis
factory outcome depended on China.
Reports from Terking fhow alarm
then.. The nromot and unanimous
acceptance of the new cabinet an
nounced today, is believed to have
been a result of the seriousness of
the Japanese and financial problems.
P.eDubllcan A. P. Leased Wire
HUDGKNVILLK, Ky.. Sept. 4.
President Wilson came to Kentucky to
day to pay homage to I he, memory of
Lincoln and avoid politics, but a great
crowd gathered from all parts of the
state, cheered liirn at every appearance
and turned nisi visit into a campaign
event.
The president accepted, for the fed
eral government, the log cabin in
which Lincoln was born in a speech
devoted, to an eulogy of the Civil War
president. Standing on a temporary
platform at Ihe foot of a hill topped
by a magnificent granite memorial
building bousing the Lincoln cabin,
he praised Lincoln as the embodiment
of democracy.
"We are not worthy to stand here
unless we ourselves are in deed and in
truth real democrats and servants of
nniikind. ready to give our very lives
J for the freedom and justice and spirit
II. II -.v.i 1 1.1 1 Hll Vl lilt mfUL IKlllOIl
which shelters and nurtures us," he
said. The non-political character of
the program was emphasized by the
meiitiiui of the name of Charles E
Hughes, the republican nominee, by
one of the speakers in giving the list
of directors of the Lincoln Farm Asso
ciation.
But as soon as the formal exercises
were over, politics came to the fore
At the railroad station platform the
president st.x.d for nearly an hour
shaking hands with men and women
who greeted him as "the next presi
dent."
What was said to be one of the
largest -crowds: ever gathetcd in this
part of Kentucky came to Lincoln
Farm in special trains and automobiles
and on foot. The president and his
party were taken from the station to
the farm in automobiles accompanied
by a troop of Louisville police. On the
way the president stopped and laid a
wreath on a statue of Lincoln.
At the farm, he walked up a long
flight of broad granite stairs lined
with thousand of cheering persons, to
the Lincoln memorial at the top. In
side he examined silently the one
room cabin made of rough logs and
mud and then wrote his name in the
register.
Former Governor Joseph W. Folk of
Missouri, president of the Lincoln
Farm Association, presided at the
formal ceremonies.
A plea that Americans of the present
day consecrate themselves to maintain
the Americanism of Lincoln inviolate
was made by Former Governor Folk.
"This country has produced many
men whose names have emblazoned
the pages of history but no name is
dearer than that of the simple and
sublime Lincoln, who literally sprang
from this soil to become the mightiest
of the mighty. His birthplace was as
lowly as that of the Man of Galilee,
whom he resembled so much in the
sorrows he knew, the burdens he bore,
and the love of humanity he mani
fested. This crude cabin preserved in
this magnificent marble mausoleum is
consecrated by the life of the man who
here came into the world. No poet's
fancy. io dream of fiction, can equal
the emerging from this humble hut of
extreme poverty of one whose steps
were destined to shake the world and
whose mission was to rededicate a
united nation to the cause of freedom.
"The spirit of Lincoln is more alive
today than when he lived in the flesh.
He founded an Americanism that is
not a matter of creed or national
descent, hut an ideal of the soul and
of the mind; an Americanism that is
not merely a union of political en
tities, but of a common aspiration and
a common destiny; an Americanism
so virile that there need be no nation
so strong we should fear it, or so pow
erful we must cower at its feet; an
Americanism so Just that the Golden
Rule may bo the supreme law guiding
us in our diplomatic relations with
other nations; an Americanism ready
to defend the aggression of all na
tions. but intentionally offending none
in upholding the principle of the rights
of man throughout the world.
"Until recently this place which
should be an object lesson to coming
generations ana revered by every
American was unnoticed and aban
doned. Inspired by the idea that a due
regard for the apostle of human liberty
whose lile began on this spot de
manded the preservation of his birth
place, a few patriotic men organized
the Lincoln Farm Association to pur
chase the property and to erect upon it
a suitable memorial to the life that
typified above all others the wonder
ful possibilities in the American Re
punuc. i ne movement met with n
ready support from every section of the
nation. The south as well as the north
responded generously. In honoring the
memory of Lincoln there is neither
north, nor south, nor east, nor west
there is one heart in all and that the
heart of loyal America.
"This majestic memorial we todefy
formally turn over to the United
States government is, therefore, not
oniy in memory or Lincoln but it
testimony given in blocks of marble
that the fires of fraternal hatred
kindled by the fierce conflict of half a
century ago are dead, and from the
ashes have arisen a pure patriotism
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
WASHINGTON, Sept. 4. Congress
is winding up its affairs for the session
and planning to adjourn eitherWednes-
day or Thursday. Republican leaders
the senate gave assurance tonight
that the emergency revenue bill, last
f the big measures on the administra
tion program, could be passed tomor
row, and house leaders predicted that
a conference report on amendments
would be ready for disposition in both
houses some time Wednesday.
Although Senator Simmons, chair
man of the finance committee, had
hoped to pass the revenue bill tonight,
he said there still was a good prospect
of adjournment Wednesday, despite the
fact that another day will have to be
devoted to the measure. Democratic
leaders prepared a joint resolution for
adjournment Wednesday evening at 6
o clock, and Majority Leader Kitchin
is planning to submit it in the house
for passage tomorrow if word comes
from the senate that business can be
concluded by that time. An effort to
pass the revenue bill today was blocked
by republicans who said hey would
yield for a final vote tomorrow. Their
attitude prompted Senator Owen to
declare that they were using the reve
nue bill to filibuster against his corrupt-practices
bill. The Oklahoma
senator proposes to make one more
fight to get the corrupt-practices bill
considered, but administration senators
said there was no doubt but that it
would be voted down.
Senator Underwood today made his
fight againt the administration plan
to impose increased tariff duties on
dye stuffs after the European war, in
order to encourage manufacturing at
home, of these sorely needed commodi
ties, for which the country depends
almost entirely upon Germi,y.
Senator I'nderwood declared the pro
posal was the embodiment of the pro
tective tariff principle, and that he
was opposed to it fundamentally. Sen
ators Stone and Hughes defended the
proposal as certain to relieve Ameri
can manufacturers from the grip of
foreign monopoly. The senate sus
tained the administration plan, 43 to
7, senators voting against it being
Bankhead, Bryan, Lane, Overman,
Reed, I'nderwood ana Vardaman, all
democrats.
Tomorrow the senate will comjilete
consideration of the section of the bill
to create a tariff commission. It then
will act on an amendment bv Senator
Lewis embodying the Webb bill to per
mit the formation of American collec
tive selling agencies In foreign coun
tries. The bill then will be ready for
a final vote.
HOPEFOR BROAD
UNDERSTANDING
MEXICO
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
NEW YiHtK. Sept. 4. Hopes that a
broad foundation of understanding and
sympathy between Mexico and the
t'nited States will govern future rela
tions were expressed here today by
both American and Mexican members
of the Joint commission that will meet
at New London on Wednesday to begin
its discussion of border disturbances.
The six commissioners were the
guests of Secretary of State Lansing
at luncheon here. Informal addresses
were delivered by Mr. Iansing and
Franklin K. Lane, secretary of the in
terior, who heads the American com
missioners, while Luis Cabrera, chair
man of the Mexican commission, and
Eliseo Arredondo, Mexican ambassador
designate, spoke in reply.
Rights of Americans in Mexico, both
personal and economical, was the only
specific point mentioned by Mr. Lans
ing and Mr. Lane in outlinig the prob
able nature of the conferences.
"It is through the consideration of,
such subjects that the seeds of future
controversies can be destroyed," said
Secretary Lansing, "and entire confi
dence restored, so that the Mexican
government and people mav build on
the ruins of war and disorder a new
and more lasting prosperity than the
republic has ever known. '
"Our people have gone among you in
confidence," said Secretary Lane.
Their lives and their fortunes are sa
cred to you, and wrongs done to them
would re-act against you even though
the t'nited States never raised its hand
nor sent a man across your border."
DOZEN BANDITS
STRUNG IIP. AND
BODIES RIDDLED
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
LAREDO, Tex., Sept. 4. Twelve
oanuits were captured and hanged to
telegraph poles and their bodies riddled
with bullets and several other outlaws
lost their lives when they attempted
to hold up a passenger train on the
Alexican National lines at Gonzales
Junction, just south of San Luis Potosi
last Saturday, according to word reach
ing the border here today.
The train had on board, it is said, s
number of de facto troops who drove
off the attacking bandits; after the
twelve men had been captured.
CHIHUAHUA CITY. ScDt. 4. Villa
refused battle with government troops
under Generals Cavaos and Elizondu
and Col. Carlos Zuazua in the San An
dres district yesterday and was nur
sued in the direction of Santa Clara
canyon, some sixty miles north and
west of Chihuahua City, Gen. Jacinto
irevino announced today.
He added that fresh troons under
Gen. Marrero, had arrived in the state
capital from the south and would" co
operate with the force operating
against the bandit chieftain.
Gen. Gonzales Cuellar. who arrived
here today after an inspection trip to
riearas Segras, reported conditions in
the Saltillo and Torreon districts as
quiet.
Numerous reports have heetn current
along the border recently that Villa has
a large cache of munitions, including
twenty machine guns somewhere in the
Santa Clara canyon, which Is within
about fifty miles of the southernmost
iContinued on Page Two
(Continued on Page Tyrol
LITTLE HARRY AA RONS. NElSlEx
IS KILLED BY BIG AUTO BUS
Harry Aaron, a twelve year olJ
newsboy, son of Mr. and Mrs. John
Aaron, of 1-15 East Monroe street,
was killed yesterday afternoon when
he was run over by an automobile
bus at the entrance to Riverside
Park. The left side- of his head was
completely crushed and he lived but
a few seconds alter being rusnea to
the Sisters' Hospital.
The accident occurred at three
thirty o'clock. The boy was riding
his bicycle into the park, preparatory
to joining the L'UKir Day throng.
Robert Arnold, driver of the "'bus,
saw the lad but was unable to stop
the big machine in time to prevent
the tragedy. The lad apparently
without a thought except the pleasure
that was shortly to be his rode di
reclly in front of the car, according
to those who witnessed the accident.
Harrv was immediately taken to the
hospital, but Dr. E. Payne Palmer
who attended him declared that he
had passed, away before leaving the
park.
Deputy Sheriff Harrison Williams
made every effort to locate the par
ents of the boy, who could not be
found for hours after their son had
met his death. A brother and little
sister were at home and were grief
The Aarons came here several years
ago for Mr. Aarons health. He is
very seriously ill with tuberculosis
and the family's only support has
been and his small brother Jimmie'
The energetic little chaps have
struggled manfully lor the care of the
lamily and their grit and determina
tion have won them favor among the
manv who patronize the newsies.
Little Jimmie is ill at home with
pneumonia and his condition is said
to be critical. The body of his deal
brother was taken to the Maus un
dertaking parlors, 311 North First,
avenue.
ON 01 GROUND
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
NASHVILLE, Tenn., Sept. 4. In
territory which no republican presi- -dential
nominee ever has visited be
fore, Charles E. Hughes tonight faced "
a tumultous audience in the auditorium
here. With cheers for Woodrow Wil
son ringing again and again in his ears.
necKiea by questioners and halted
often by democratic sympathizers, the
nominee criticised the administration
for its policies, argued for a protective
tariff, and in a reference which the
audience took to apply to the enact
ment of the Adamson bill, asserted that
he stood firmly for the administration,
of all industrial disputes.
"I believe there is no grievance with
respect to labor," Mr. Hughes said.
that cannot be settled by a fair, can
did explanation of the facts.
e have, in the past, had to deal
frequently with the opposition of em
ployer to the principle of arbitration.
Sometimes they have refused to arbi
trate disputes. Public opinion has
been against them. I stand here firmly
for the principle of arbitrating indus
trial disputes, and I would not sur
render it to anybody in the country.
I believe that anything that is risrht
in this country can be settled right.
What is our republican government?
What are our free institutions? We
have come down the long course of his
tory with the people fighting siowlv.
slowly now with defeat and now with
victory for a recognition of the reign
of reason istead of the reign of tyranny
and force.
"Now, then, I stand for two things:
"First, for the principle of fair, im
partial, thorough, candid arbitration,
and,
"Second, for legislation on facts ac-
hcording to necessities of the case. And
1 am opposed to being dictated "o.
either in the executive department or
congress, by any power on earth be
fore the facts are known.
"We have a great country, and a
great future. But it can onjy be pre
served in one way: that way. is the
way of all honest - persons fair
investigation and candid treatment.
Show me the way that is right, and I
will take it; but I won't take any way
that I-do not know anything about."
The audience, which had inter
rupted Mr. Hughes repeatedly in the
earlier portion of his speech to cheer
for Wilson, heard the nominee's
declaration in silence and at its con
clusion applauded him.
J. W. Taylox, republican state
chairman, the first speaker, was in
terrupted time after tim by cheers
for WilKOn. Amid a burst of Wilson
cheers, he sat down and the second
speaker, George N. Tillman, chairman
of the meeting, stood up. M,r. Till
man was on his feet for ten minutes,
much of the time vainly endeavoring
to make himself heard. He intro
duced Mr. Hughes and the audience
waited in silence.
"I shall not forget the warmth of
the welcome of this vociferous meet
ing," Mr. Hughes said, and the audi
ence applauded. He added that what
he had to say was to be said "good
naturedly," at a time that the Amer
ican people were taking stock.
'I do not desire in anything I say.
to express naught but the highest
respect for those who do not agree
with me, he contined. I simply de
sire to say what I think, why I
think it. why 1 am here, and then
let the American people judge ac
cording to their own consciences."
The audience applauded, and Mr.
Hughes- outlined his views on Amer
ican indutsry, the test it will face
when the war ends, and tjie doctrins
of a protection tariff.
He was interrupted frequently by
applause now and then by cheers for
Wilson.
"Now, our opponents do i not be
lieve in the doctrine of a protective
tariff." he said, producing a memor
andum from his pocket. Ha checked
a Wilson cheer by adding:
"I am not going to say nything
unpleasant, my friends. I am just
uoing to raad the democratic plat
form." H"e read the tariff plank, of
the paltform of 1912.
"I believe," he continued, "in pro
tecting American industry." "And
the man who can do it is Woodrow
Wilson," shouted a man from the
balcony. Applause checked the
nominee.
"There would ret be much disposi
tion to clap," Mr. Hughes said, smil
ing, as the applause died down, "in
this country, if that doctrine got
headway very long."
The nominee then assailed the ad
ministration for its policy toward
Mexico. He outlined its attitude to
ward Huerta. declaring that the ques
tion was not one of recognition or
non-recognition, but one of protect-
(Continned on Page Two)
May Disregard Orders to
Recognize Carranza Money
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
DOUGLAS, Sept.- 4. Adolf o del la
Huerta, governor of Sonora. has
signified his intention of disregard
ing orders from General Carranza,
first chief of the de facto goverh-
(Continued on Page Nine)"
stricken when the word enme of their iment, to force the oeopie. of Sonora
brother's death and later the sorrow to use his recent issue of currency
of Mr. and Mrs. Aarons vns pitiful, in business transactions of all char-
The noliee finally located the parents - acter, according to a report reaching
Arnold was also taken to the police
station, where after being questioned
bv Assistant County Attorney Cun
r'ngh"m. he w,!l detained pending
the tnque'st today.
official circles'" in Aeua Prieta today
Miners at Cananea, Nacozari. El
ion was reached to resent by strik
ing any attempt to change the mone
tary system of the camp.
Municipal elections were held in
Sonora Sunday, a very light vote be
ing cast, according to news reaching
here from many points in theJ Mexi
can state today. There was no at
tempt to military supervision and
soldiers took little interest in the
balloting, it is reported. In every
town which officials, appointed by
Tigroi and otlirr camps, where silver, the military authorities were candi
money is being paid, are reported to dates for re-electon, they were de
have held meetings at which decis- feated.
