British Advance Along Somme as French Allies J Wiirm~Othw Fronts
HARRISBURG dSE&I TELEGRAPH
T WW XT,-. on; by carriers « CENTS a week.
LAAAV ISO. /U3 SINGLE COPIES a CENTS.
KIPONA SHOWS BIG
DEMAND FOR REAL
RIVER DEVELO
Foundation Laid For Establishment of Municipal Bathing
Beaches and Erection of Public Bath andßoathouses;
Plans Already Under Way to Make Great Water Fete
Bigger and Better Next Labor Day '
HARRISBURG NAVY SHOWS VAST
POSSIBILITIES OF BASIN'S EXPANSION
Susquehanna Mecca of All Classes Throughout Yesterday;
Sports in Afternoon Run Off in Plain View of Count
less Thousands on City's Front Steps and Bridges;
Illumination of Stream at Night Climax of the Day
The Susquehanna River Basin at Harrisburg came into its own
yesterday. The first annual Kipona was al! that had been promised
for it—and much more. Harrisburg will not be content to let
another year pass without repetition, on an even larger scale, of the
magnificent water carnival that delighted the great audience which
yesterday witnessed the exciting aquatic contests in the afternoon
and went into raptures over the surpassingly beautiful spectacle of
the river pageant in the evening. Isut more than all that —the foun
dation was laid for the establishment of municipal bathing beaches
and the erection of public bathhouses and boathouses. After yes
terday's demonstration no city council with due respect for public
approval would dare deny the appropriations which the Greater
Harrisburg Navy, speaking for the people of Harrisburg as a whole,
will shortly ask for these purposes.
The Navy has the gratitude of the public for yesterday's cele
bration. Its members worked hard under the handicap of brief time
for preparation, but what they did is only an earnest of what they
will do with a full year in which to plan.
Even superlatives are Inadequate to
describe the beautiful panorama
spread before those who viewed it
from the Front Steps of the city in
the afternoon. The river never was
more attractive. The deep blues of
the distant mountains formed a semi
circle about the scene, matching the
cloudless skies in hue and sharply con
trasting with the dar)i greens of low
lands and islands and the lighter
blues and greens of the water, rippled
and shining beneath the gentle buffet
ing of a cool September breeze. The
long line of gaily decorated floats I
that formed one border of the racing
course from the Walnut street bridge I
north, the silent progress of innumer-!
able canoes, the chug-chugging of the
motorboats and the brilliant hues of I
gowns and coats in the great grand- j
stand of the steps where thousands 1
gathered to view the scheduled events, j
all combined to make a picture of,
charming detail and magnificent pro
portions. The evening pageant, with
its flood of illuminations, its electric
fountain, its fireworks, its illuminated
boat parade and its countless canoes j
flitting about like giant fireflies on the
surface of the stream, was even more
beautiful. In time this great spectacle
is bound to become one of the big
holiday attractions of Pennsylvania.
The State has nothing to surpass it
and few other cities anywhere can
boast of a Xete that in any sense ap
proaches it.
President's Statement
In a statement to-day regarding the
Kipona and its relation to the Susque- I
hai.nn river basin, the president of the )
Greater Harrisburg Navy, E. J. Stack- |
pole, said
Again the value of community |
co-operation has been demon- j
strated in the first annual Kipona.
Enthusiasm, tireless energy, civic
pride, constructive effort and
above and beyond all else a fine
appreciation of the value of the
river basin as a practical and
esthetic asset of the city were the
outstanding factors in the success
of the big event.
This river carnival is going to
be for Harrisburg what the Mardi
Gras is for New Orleans, the
Veiled Prophets for St. Louis and
the Gasparilla for Tampa. It will
THEWEATHERI
For Harrisburg and vicinity) Prob
nbly shower* to-night nnd Wed
nesday) not much ciiunisc in tem
perature.
For Eastern Pennsylvania: Prob
ably showers to-night anil \\ cd
ncodayt moderate, variable minds. ;
River
The Susquehanna river and all ItN
brancheM will probably remain
nearly stationary, except showers
muy cause risen In tone streuius
Wednesday.
General Conditions
Pressure is relatively high east
and south of the Great Lakes and
over the St. Lawrence Valley.
Over the remainder of the terri
tory represented on the map It Is
low, vtlth two centers of depres
sion, one located over Western
Canada and the other over south
districts west of the Rocky Moun
tains.
fchowers have occurred In Northern
New England, the Upper St. Law
rence Valley, the Lake lteiclon,
the Upper Mississippi Valley, In
the Western Canadian Provinces
nnd In the South Atlantic and
East Gulf States, being heavy in
some localities In the p,oke Re
gion with the greatest amount
reported, 3.7U Inches, at S. Ste.
Marie.
Temperatures are above the season
al average over nearly ail the
country, except the Northwest.
Temperaturei 8 a. m., #4.
Sum Rises, sißo a. m.s seta, 6i3il
p. m.
Mooni Full moon, September 11,
3iSt p. m.
River Stage i 3.2 feet above low
water mark.
Yesterday's Weather
Highest temperatnre, 70.
Lowest temperature, .12.
Mean temperature, OA.
Normal temperature, US.
attract year after year thousands
of visitors who will learn more of
the city and its remarkable de-
catching the Inspiration
here for civic betterment and
wholesome recreation.
But the Kipona is simply the
spectacular feature of a substan
tial and admirably designed plan
for the further development of
the Susquehanna basin.. Once the
people have placed tjieir seal of
approval upon the use of the
river, as they have already done
this season, the bathing beaches,
boathouses and the care of the
islands must quickly follow.
Romance of the River
Thrills Thousands as
Lighted Boats Flip By
If the ghost of old Kishacoquillas,
the old Indian chief who is supposed
to haunt the valley of the Susque
hanna, walked last evening, surely he
must have been a most surprised
shade.
Should he have taken a seat midst
the shadows on the hill over by Fort
Washington and let his eyes rest on
tha long curve of the Susquehanna
lrom Market to Reily streets, it must
have been a feeling of awe that
gripped him.
A nightmare is probably the mildest
term that the old shade could find to
describe his feelings as he watched
the myriad of little bobbing lights
twinkling back and forth 'cross the
[Continued on Page 5]
U. S. Steel Makes New
High Record at 98 1-2
By Associated Press
New York. Sept. 5. United States
Steel made a new high record at the
opening of to-day's strong market, 10,-
000 shares changing hands at 98 to
98%. The maximum figure Is equiva
lent to 100? i, allowing for the regular
and extra-dividend of 2% points which
came off the stock when it sold ex
dividend last Friday. The previous
high record for Steel was 98%, made
last week.
Mercantile Marine preferred also
made a new record at 111, likewise
Kelley-Springfleld Tire at 81%, The
entire market expressed the relief of
the speculative community over the
settlement of the railroad strike, gains
in other parts of the list, rails except
ed, being from 1 to 2 points.
Will Give Mayor Mitchel
Chance to Intervene Before
Great Strike Is Called
By Associated Press
New York, Sept. s.—Mayor John P.
Mitchel will he given time to intervene
before the strike is called among em
ployes of the Interborough Rapid
Transit Company's subway and ele
valed lines, it was announced to-day
on l'ebalf of the men.
This development indicated an in
definite delay in carrying out the pur
pose of the men to tie up the system if
the company maintains its stand not to
annul contracts signed recently bind
ing many of the employes not to seek
wage increases for two years.
Frank Hedley, general manager of
the Interborough, after a conference
wilh a committee of carmen's union,
announced a "positive refusal" on the
company's part to abrogate these indi
vidual contracts. He said every effort
would be made to operate cars if a
strike Is called.
EIGHTY HURT WHEN STANDS
COLLAPSE WILL RECOVER
Colorado Springs, Col., Sept. 5.—A
careful check to-day of the list of
those injured when a portion of the
grnndstund at the Welsh-White bout
collapsed shows that none of the vic
tims is fatally hurt. There are eighty
persons at the local hospitals; about as
many others only slightly hurt have
been able to go to their homes
HARRISBURG, PA'.. TUESDAY EVENING, SEPTEMBER 5, 1916.
SOME OF THE MERMAIDS AND CANOEISTS WHO WON LAURELS
rwti< minffi r MH&I
The upper picture shows five of the contestants In the 100-yard swim for girls. From left to right they are Miss
Minnie Noble, who finished second; Miss Anna Emanuel. Miss Esther Sweeney, third: Mrs. Ward Nicelv, flis'' and Miss
Thomas. Below ire the canoeists in the malo doubles race lust at the start. In the foreground are Raymond Suydam
and Ralph Seiders, who won the race.
JAP RELATIONS
ARE UNCHANGED
Assures U. S. That Alliance Is
Not Affected by Crisis
in the East
By Associated Press
Tokio, Sept. 5. Japan has offi
cially assured the United States that
the alliance recently made by Russia
and Japan will not affect the status
quo in the Far East.
The Russo-T?if7tffFsse~convention was
signed at Petrograd July 3. The
Japanese Foreign Office in reply to a
question from The Associated Press
after the treaty had been signed fls to
what effect the alliance would
upon the open door and the Integrity
of China stated:
"The convention is effectual an
emphasis upon and an extension of
an Anglo-Japanese alliance, basea
upon the territorial integrity of
China, whose open door and integrity
are not in danger. American trade
and interests are in no wise affected."
The Foreign Office denied affirma
tions in Japanese newspapers that
I the convention contained secret
| clauses.
On August 4 Reuters Telegram
Company, Limited, announced In Lon
don that It had learned that after the
conclusion of the Russo-Japanese
convention a separate agreement was
reached under which Russia sold to
Japan the southern half of the Har
bin-Changhun railway in Manchuria.
The additional agreement, it was said,
also recognized Japan's rights on the
Sungari river between Kirin and
Petuna, In Manchuria, thus settling a
question pending since the signing of
the Portsmouth treaty.
Diplomats Keep Careful
Watch on Crisis Growing
Out of Troop Clash
Washington, Sept. 5. Close watch
is being maintained by diplonxnfle
officials here over the newly
ed crisis between Japan and ' £h(na
growing out of the recent clash of the
two nations' troops at Cheng Chiatun.
Considerable fear is felt that the
rights of the United States in China
may be affected In view of confidential
reports that Japan has made other
demands than those published yester
day in dispatches from Peking, and
that the secret negotiations threaten
Chinese rule throughout Inner Mon
golia.
Unorganized Railroaders
to Fight 8-Hour Law
By Special Correspondence
Chicago, Sept. 5. Employes of the
railroads others than the members of
the four brotherhoods, are to make a
determined fight upon the Adamson
eight-hour law, according to Robert
T. Frazier, an employe of the Nash
ville, Chattanooga and St. Louis Rail
road hero to-day. He claimed to have
secured many signers to a petition to
Congress protesting against the law.
Mr. Frazier will leave for Pittsburgh
to-day and following a visit to Phila
delphia and New York, will go to
Washington to present his petition to
Congress. He claims the new law
only affects 400,000 men and Ignores
1,500,000 other railroad employes.
WANT TO NATIONALIZE
RAILROADS OF ENGLAND
Birmingham, Eng., Sept. 5. A de
termined stand for nationalization of
the railroads of Great Britain was
taken to-day by the Trades Union
Congress, representing nearly 2,500,-
000 men. The Congress demanded
acquisition of the railroads by the
State and a voice in thetr control for
the workers. The project for the
creation of a ministry of labor a:so
was approved by a large majority.
PROFESSOR DIES IX AIR FIGHT
Berlin. Sept. 6, via London.—Pro
fessor Siebert, several years ago an
exchange professor in the United
States, was killed recently in an tierial
act ion over the western front. The
following day the Belgian victor
dropped a bouquet of roses for the
funeral with the inscription: "A Bel
gian aviator's homage to a foe de
feated In aerial battle."
PASSAGE OF R.R.
BILL ASSAILED
Hughes Declares President
Yielded to Brotherhoods Be
cause of Expediency
Nashville, Tenn., Sept. s.—Charles
E. Hughes made a bitter attack last
night upon President Wilson and the
Democratic Congress for meeting the
demands of the railroad employes for
an eight-hour day by the passage of
the Adamson bill. Mr. Hughes inti
mated that the administration had
sacrificed principle for party expedi
ency. Mr. Hughes said he stood for
arbitration of all industrial disputes
and would not submit to dictation
[Continued on Page 3]
Hundreds Attend Funeral
Services of Mr. Pennypacker;
Bishop Darlington in Charge
Philadelphia, Sept. 5. Hundreds of
persons in all walks of life attended
the funeral services of former Governor
Samuel W. Pennypacker in historic
Old Christ Church here this afternoon.
Bishop Darlington, of Harrisbarg, as
sisted by the Rev. Dr. lx>uis C. Wash
burn, rector of Old Christ Church, and
the Rev. Dr. Stockett, rector of »t.
James-on-the-Perkiomen, where Mr.
Pennypacker attended, offie'ated. Gov
ernor Brumbaugh and former Governors
William A. Stone, Edwin S. Stewart,
John K. Tener, Federal and city officials
and prominent representatives of so
i cieties and other organizations witn
j which the dead Governor had been ac
| tively identified, acted as honorary pall
bearers. Following the services the
| body was taken to Phoenixville, Pa., foi
burial.
According to an announcement made
yesterday, Mr. Pennypacker wrote ».
history of his life, from the days of hit.
youth up to the time he left the Execu
tive chair at Harrisburg, which Is cer
tain to have wide Interest among poli
ticians and historians, because it deals
freely and frankly with State and na
tions! issues and, perhaps, torches lip
on that epochal period of the Capitol
! graft investigation.
This autobiography was completed
months ago. It was Mr. Penny
packer's intention to supplement it
witl\ chapters dealing with Statecraft
nrtd tfie law. but death stayed his hand.
As it stands it most likely will be a
valiiable and interesting vdlume be
cause of his active participation in po
litical and historical affairs of Pennsyl
vania. The autobiography will be pub
lished.
Treaty For Purchase of
Danish Islands Ordered
Favorably Reported to Senate
Washington, D. C., Sept, 5. The
treaty for purchase of the Danish West
Indies for $25,000,000 was ordered fa
vorably reported to the Senate to-day
by the foreign relations committee by
a unanimous vote of Senators present.
It will he reported later to-day and an
effort made to have it ratified before
adjournment of Congress.
The committee voted in favor of the
treaty after a subcommittee reported
thero was nothing objectionable in the
privileges and concessions granted to
various corporMions which the treaty
proposed to continue in force.
"It is to be hoped that the treaty
can be ratified at once," said Senator
Stone, "but, of course, there is no dis
position to let it delay adjournment."
Any objection to its ratification will
force postponement of action until the
next session.
SHOWMAN SHOOTS NEGRO
Mob Tries to Mob Carnival Employe
Who Attacks Stcelton Man
Newton Rogers, one of the exhib
itors at the carnival at, Cameron and
Mulberry streets, last night drew a
revolver during an argument, and shot
James Casterow, colored, Steelton,
and Miss Bertha Frehn, aged 30, 121
South Fourteenth street. Miss Frehn
was not involved In the argument,
but one of the bullets penetrated her
pcalp. Both the Injured were treated
at the Harrlsburg hospital.
Following the shooting a mob at
tempted to get Rogerß, but members
of the Shamrock Flr« company, under
whose auspices the carnival is being
held, gathered in front of the show
man's tentn and protected him until
the arrival of the police. Rogers was
held on a charge of felonious assault
and battery, but declared that the
negro struck him during the argu
ment, and that he Bhot In self de
fense. Casterow Is under arrest
charged with assaulting Rogers. Miss
Frehn was taken to her home after
receiving treatment.
POSTAL CLERKS
HAVE GRIEVANCE
Government Far More Con
siderate of Railroad Men
Than of Own Employes
A meeting of the New York and
Pittsburgh Association, an organiza
tion of railway postal clerks who run
on the line of the P. R. R. between
Xew York and Pittsburgh is in ses
sion this afternoon at their clubroom
in North Fourth street. These men
begin their tours of duty at Harris
burg, as well as finish th«ai. On their
start-out they go to New York, run
ning straight through to Pittsburgh
on their second day, <ind from Pitts
burgh to Harrisburg on the third day.
For a period of thirty years, or since
the first Cleveland administration, the
men on this postal route have been
I running thus, with a working period
iof six days and a similar period off
;duty for rest, study and In consider
ation of overtime and owing to the
strenuousness of the exacting duties
! required of the men while on duty.
Hardship to Men
Under the present administration
this method of running has been
changed and at one period of the
month now they are required to run
twelv days out of fourteen, or four
of these days each man doing (our
railroad division*, while the P. R. U.
company has one man to each divis
ion or four men get paid for doing
what one postal clerk is required to
do. In other words on those days the
railroad man, allowing for the return
trip, averages only 220 miles, while
the postal clerk manes 440.
The Inter-State Commerce Com
mission has made the maximum rail
road day on passenger trains 155
miles, yet the postal men in the em
ploy of the government are required
to make an average of 172 miles per
day for every day in the year, or 203
miles on every week-day. This is one
of the matters wtth which this meet
ing had'to do. The government em
ployes expect the government to be
as fair "with them as it requires the
railroads to be with their employes,
and insist that if i 55 miles is the
maximum for passenger traffic em
ployes it should also be the maximum
for postal employes who run the same
lines.
When the present method of run
ning was instituted, about a year and
a half ago, the number of crews run
ning on this line was reduced from
six to five, with the result that it has
become a burden. During this period
the extra saving to the department
has been .from $60,000 to $75,000, and
(he extra work performed by each
man approximately worth $4 50, for
which they receive absolutely noth
ing. Charged up against this, some
of the employes say, is a record of
at least four cases of mental derange
ment and two or three nervous break
downs.
May Move Men
It is reported now that a prominent
official of the Post Office Department
has recommended that a change be
made in the runs, thus heading the
men out of New York and Pittsburgh,'
instead of at Harrisburg, where 80
per cent, reside and where the great
majority own their own homes. If
this is done it will mean eventually
the loss of over two hundred families
and their purchasing power to this
city, and this matter is vital enough
to concern the attention of members
of the Chamber of Commerce, say the
clerks.
Don't Forget Thursday,
It's the First Day For
Registration For Fall
Don't forget Thursday, November
7, 1B the first registration day for the
Fall election.
And If you don't have a tax receipt
you can't he registered, unless you
have a last year's receipt—and you
can't pay your tax unless you are as
sessed, and you can't be assessed after
to-morrow.
Tuesday, September 19, will be the
second registration and the Inst chance
to register for the Fall election will
be Saturday, October 7.
NEW BANK OPENS DOORS
The Camp t'urtin Trust Company,
successor to the Sixth Street Bank,
opened Its doors for business this
morning. The Trust Company la lo<
cated at Sixth and Maclay street*. j
COUNCIL WON'T
RESCIND SWIFT
BRIDGE MEASURE
Declines to Heed Chamber of
Commerce Request to With
draw Permission
MAY GO INTO COURT
City Planners Asked to Return
Walnut Street Plans; Wetzel
Appointed Chief
City Council to-day flatly refused j
the request of the Chamber of Com- j
merce to rescind the ordinance author-1
izing Swift & Company to construct a |
bridge. between its main building- and
annex, across Seventh street, one of
the wider thoroughfarees in the busi
ness district of the city.
The Chamber's rerjuest was voiced i
by a committtee consisting of Arthur!
D. Bacon. E. J. Stackpole and Donald j
McCormick.
In a letter notifying the city fathers
of its action the committee called at- 1
tentlon to the fact that the measure)
[Continued on Page "/
Engineer Hauls Train
Into Wilds and Fished;
Sues For Loss of Contract
By Associated Press
Hammond. La.. Sept. S. The "slow
train through Arkansas" is still in op
eration, according to Edward JVright,
a lumber dealer, who brought suit here
to-day against the Baton Rouge, Ham
mond and Eastern Railroad for $2,000,
alleging that unwarranted delay in
traffic lost him a valuable lumber con
tract.
Wright charges soeclfieally that the
engineer of the train halted it out in
the wilds and fished for two hours. "I
concede the lure of angling," said
Wright's complaint, "but business is
business."
SIXOM) ZEPPELIN DAMAGED
By Associated Fress
I.ondon, Sept. s.—That another Zep
pelin airship was badly damaged in
the raid on the English southeastern
counties Saturday night in addition to
the other destroyed was indicated in
an official statement given out this
afternoon bj( the government press
bureau. It said: "An important part
of an enemy airship was picked up in
the eastern counties. The ship un
doubtedly suffered severe damage from
gunfire."
oNTT DEAT), THEEE HHRT lire- 3! |3?
? York, Pa., Sept. 5. One persoi >
1 others were injured, 1 illy, at 1 o'clock this after- ! L
m noon, when a north-bound passenger train on the Pcnnsyl- ' j
I vania Railroad struck the automobile in which they were j£
C riding. The accident occurred on V
1 Glen Rock, sixteen miles south of York. The four occu- j i
i pants of the automobile were all from the vicinity of West- ® ►
1 «!
1 WILSON BACK IN WASHINGTON !
% I
j Washington, Sept. s.—President Wilson returned here|>
I CONTRACTS PARALYSIS FROM LITTLE VICTIMS* ►
C 1 Philadelphia, Sept. s.—Dr. Earl C. Pr ♦, first j|
I assistant resident phy the Munici: IL here, L
& who attended hundreds of children striken with infantile ' ,
j paralysis, died to-day fame disease. He was taken :
iill last Friday and steadily grew worse despite heroic efforts J }
' made by other physicians to save his life. '
it
FIERCE FIGHTING IN ARMENIA , ►
Sept. s.—Fierce battles are in progress in >
the .Cfcion west of Ogott, in Turkish Armenia, says
Kuo •:» statement. The Turkish troops arc said to be re-' ,
tic 11n .. find arc :;ecl ammuni
< ® tion alOics. ' '
t
j » METAL EXPLOSION INJURES TWO « f
1 Harrisburg. Two foreigners were badly burned at '
£ the Central Iron and Steel Works this afternoon by hotg >
metal in an explosion at the open heart furnaces. !
i> <:
TO GET HEARING FOE MURDER
Harrisburg. John W. Christley, who shot and killed
< ® his wife several months ago, and then attempted suicide/ -
) I will be fciven a preliminary hearing Thursday morning at 10
o'cloc*, beioie *tideiman James B. DeShong, on a charge J
< murder.
, .<!
M iRRIACE IJCEMSES
! Ru»«fl s»Kt .llltnfr, Kaula, and Tlriab Kdlth I.epperd, Duacaanoa. 1 '
Sawurl LMvia \ rraou. Jr., I.onrllvlllp, 0., and Jennie Kmma Adama,
•vlly.
John C. Thoimiß and SuMtn lluhlrj, Miildlrfon n. |
\\ 111 ia in Kdnard Miuup, Eilgcn:«nl, and Dorothy Dcnukr, Obcrlln. , 1
12 PAGES CITY EDITION
ALLIES MAKING
SUPREME EFFORT
TO SMASH LINES
Strike Blow After Blow Against
Picked German Troops;
British Make Gains
RUMANIANS DEFEATED
First Clash Occurs in Rumania;
Heavy Fighting in East; Russ
Take 4,500 Prisoners
The battle of the Somme has no*
reached the high pitch of violence.
Against the concentration of picked
German troops the French and British
are striking blow after blow in what
appears to be a supreme effort to
force away through the German line.
London to-day announces further sub
stantial gains at two points north of
the sector of twelve and one-half
miles over which the French ad
vanced yesterday.
The Germans are not yielding their
carefully-organized positions without
desperate resistance, and the lighting
among ruins of villages and over deso
lated farms Is unceasingly severe with
heavy loses on both sides. Last night
the Germans launched a number of
vigorous counter attacks but the
French War Office reports they were
beaten with heavy losses to the at
tackers. The battle is being carried
on under the most unfavorable
weather conditions.
Have Taken 29 Towns
Since the beginning of the Somme
offensive, twenty-nine villages have
[Continued on Page 7]
BOY KILLED, SEVEN HURT
WHEN AUTO TURNS TURTLE
By Special Correspondence
Greenville, Pa., Sept. s.—Raymond
Collins, aged 16, was instantly killed,
George Kane, aged 20 and John M.
Brown, aged 20, were fatally injured,
doctors say, and five others seriously
injured when an automobile, bringing
members of a church picnic party
back to this city, turned turtle near
here late last night. All were Green
ville residents.
COMMISSIONERS TO MEET
New York, Sept. s.—The Mexican
and American Joint Commission which
will undertake to settle international
difficulties left to-day on the Presi
dential yacht Mayflower for New Lon
don, Conn. There the first conference
will be held to-morrow.
