THE, WEATHER
Tonight and tomorrow, generally
fair. "id
MR. MERCHANT.
An ad In The Eagle will bring buyer
and eeller together.
Ike
AND PILOT
VOL XXX. NO. 206.
BRYAN, TEXAS, TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 5, 1916.
PRICE $4.C0 PER MiZVVL
Eaife
I
-.J
Slowly
Brim
m
ms
m
pll
Crisco
Is pure and wholesome
and keeps well In warn
weather.
FRESH STOCK
Hardy Newton
DM HE
TEUTOrJIC PniSOHERS
WOULD
II
SID
FOR DISCRiMllTION
Congress Would Withhold Clearance
. Papera From Veaeeta 8o Treat
ing United State.
(By Associated Press.)
Washington. Bept. 6. An amend
ment to the revenue bill authorlxlng
the President during war In which the
"United Btatea la not engaged, to with
hold clearance Barters from Teaaela
which dlacrlmlnate agalnat American
ahlppera, and withhold privilege
from ihlpa of auch nation aa with
hold privileges from American hlpa
FREE ill SERVICE
PI IS LAID
Little By Little the Brtish and French Are Slowly
' Gaining Ground or the Germans on the West
ern Front and Pushing Them Further and
Further Back The Russians Are Also Gain
ing, and Capturing Additional Prisoners From
Dav to Day Comparative Quiet Prevails on
Macedonian Front-fRussian Cavalry Sabered
Bulgarian Outposts The French Have Taken
Twenty-nine Villages on the Somme Front
Belgian Aviator Paid Pretty Tribute to His
Foe Slain in Aerial Battle.
YOU CAN PHOHCUG
any order for groceries at any time and we'll see to it that
you get what you order,' at the best prices, and delivered
with extreme celerity. We have undoubtedly the choicest
line of canned goods including pickles and preserves that
canning and preserving factories produce. Have you tried
any?
London, 8ept 6. The
British
The promtae of free mall delivery In rooo. incrMted their galna in the
the city of Bryan on the flrat of No- 8omma gion at night by puhlng
vember baa cauaed considerable atlr forward fifteen hundred yarda eat of
Gulllemont and aecured a hold en
Leuae Wood, aaya the Brltlah official
elatement
cial Club head bare already etarted f partner aouth a strong German
campaign and are expecting tne syltem 0f detent on a front of three
among tne leading Business iudu u
the town and the heada of the Com
mercial Association. The Commer-
Twenty-Nine Villages Taken.
Pari. Sept. 6. The capture of
Soyecourt and Chilly by the French
yesterday make a total of . twenty
nine villages taken alnce the begin-
Reid Bros.
TRADES DAY C
ROI
PLI
KG TO ALL
Busy Fall Seaaon Keepa Many People
Away, but Good Crowd Waa
in Town.
AGRICULTURE DEPT.
SUES
SOIL IP
....
co-operation of every clttien of Bryan, inouMn(j feet around Falfemont farm
aa this will be necessary to get the wi eiptur,d( and the statement adda
free service from the government. ,et s,pt,mbrr 3rd the Brit
Postmaster John E. Astln has been gh hiv captured the whole of the
appointed chairman of a cmmlttM, remaining German aecond line Je
wblch will handle the campaign .,, from Moquatte farm to a point
.amone- the cltlaene and with the gov- wh.M h British line -Mnt 'Uf
mworfled to otner nauona. ana to u ernnjent (ron, now untU the eervlce la Frtnchi 1
the army and navy. If necessary. t jMUbllsbed. Other members of the; , the drectlon of Vladimir Vol-
prevent the departure of the offend-lcommlttee are M foiiows: A. M. .h M , Volhynkla. the Russlane
ing vessels rrom i mtea Maiea pons. Wtldrop w McElroy. John M. . tured115 Teuton officers and i
waa adopted by the Senate. 'Lawrence and A. W. Wllkerson. The.4J14 mtn MnBon, thirty-five ma-
. jflrat work of the committee has start- thne guna an(j four mine throwers,
Created Conaternatlen. tni the aKtatlon among the My, tn, Rutiian official atatement
Washington. Sept. 5. Drastic ,rltllena for .idewalke which will be. Th, Frtnch fore repulsed vigor
mmendmenta to the revenne bill. trlk-' artequ),e M(1 acrpuble to the post-- ut Cermai, counter attack north of
M a. -tt - A . it m. 1 l.A .
ing at me am oir i.ih ... w. ofnre ngpector when he amvee nere omm, ia,t nlnht Parle an-
Secretary W. A. McElroy of the ,
Commercial Association received yes
terday 600 pamphlets which contain a
- , good sized soil map of Brazos county.
The Initial number of Bryan's First ey were prepared and put out by
Monday . Trades Day, which waa In- the United Statee Department of Ag
augurated In this city by the . Bryan 'rlculture and are very fine. Too
and Brazos County Commercial Asso-1 booklet contains over fifty pages of
riatinn w9i held yesterday. The rood readme matter, explaining an
nlng of the offensive on the Somme crowd Jn the dty whe not large the dlfferent kIndg of ,,!, what It
front The poaltlon wrested from the ,t cou)d baTe been WM good yes-(will grow, what It contalna and with
uermans, poweniiuy organizea ai
Barleoux, Was one of their strongest
positions. Repeated direct attacks
were unsuccessful and the French
finally resorted to a turning move
ment, attacking to the southwest The
Germane counter attacked no less
than six tlmea.
ALLICEIiOTTO
EFFECT STATUS QUO
at some future date to make hla In- vouncta.
(By Associated Press.)
Toklo. Sept. 5. Japan today offi
cially assured the United Stales that
. ... ... the alliance recently made by Japan
and Russia would not effect the atat-
u quo in the far Eaat
British Interference with malls, adopt
ed by the Senate, created eonstema Uption. A letter appealing to the ffort t( reoaln the ground lot by
tlon among the diplomatic represent-'ppj, wno own property In the resl- th Btw FrtfKh drive,
tlve of the allies. In allied quartera jdpnce autrict who have no aldewalka f Comparative quiet prevail en the
It was declared th enement of the ,t tIJ hai .en prepared and Is being Macedonian front, though the rtil
amendments would constitute a non- roaned out today. The letter la a good ,Upy )a active, the French an-
Intercourse art preliminary to com- ona ind there Is nothing contained la'nounce.
merclal warfare, with nosihmttes or itlne whcn wouj offend anyone. It! Tn fi ea,h between the Bulge-
far reaching consequences. ' (a tna point and should have the',,,., who nvadet Eastern Rumania
attention of every on receiving earns. Bd the Ruaatane, who went to the aa
If yon and your neighbors have no tiatjnce of the Rumanlana, occurred
walka, get together and build them, ytsterday and the Bulgarian cavalry
one of Right now I the time, aa It la the utDOt waa sabered by the Russian
only way that free man service win eivalry, the Petrograd war office an- -trals accept the principle that all ann
be secured, and when they are built Bounces. marines are Teasels of war the United
your property will be worth more and. -p,. Germane and Bulgarians In- 8tates dispatched a reply which. It Is
yog and your neighbors will be out of vadlna Eastern Rumania carried by 'understood, holds to the principle that
lEW YORK.
GOES TO
t
Visa IiiVrMay Johnson,
Dryan's favorite girls, who for eleven
years has held a position In the pub
lic schools of Waco, makee a change
thla session, going to New York to ac
cept a poaltlon In the Semple School
-for Clrle. 114 Central Park. West cor
ner S4tW atreet faring the park. Miss
Lqcy Informs Tha Eagle that Mrs.
Sample, head of the school, la an old
Montgomery. Ala lady and ahe will
thai continue to be In a Southern at
mosphere. Several Texaa glrla will
accompany Mlsa I.ncy to New Tork
for the opening of the session.
WILL PASS UP OH
CIPU CIIDMIDIfT
LAUII IWUIIUIIIILI
terday waa the atarter and the mer- thla map yon can locate your land and
chants report a good day and say that tell exactly what experts say It will
In the end the Trades Day Idea wui best produce. The name or tne dook
be a winner. Quite a number of peo- let la "8oll Survey of Brazos County"
pie from the rural districts came In The books are for freo distribution
and a large number registered at the and Mr. McElroy of the Commercial .
office of the Commercial Club. In as- 'Association say that he desires to get
much as the club waa handicapped In them distributed, to .the bef adran
advertlslng the ' opening ' day, the tage over the county and to do thla ho
crowd waa far beyond their expecta- has decided to let everybody who de
tlons. To say the least of It the sires one make application for same
Trades Day plan haa been started and either in writing or In person. Tha
will grow In popularity as the months books are ready and yon can have one
mil hr. ' Ion making application to the Com-
A list of the prize winners, who merclal Club of thla city.
were given premiums on registration
aa advertised, were as follow:
The following out of town peopJe;
rerlsterin at- the Commercial Asso
ciation's rooms will receive the arti
cles Indicated free.
Secretary McElroy la mailing outj
orders to the lucky parties, and when I (By Associated Prsa.
presented to the merchant making! Washington. 8ept . 5. President
the donation will be honored hy them. Wilson returned thla afternoon from
s.nni nri.a Tin dnllvrd. 'Hodeenvllle. Kv and was driven lm-
I.. 1- HI.I..1 -..... . nnl. maitlarotv in h Whit HoUaSL
lUBUUIUIQUb UUUIini Wl rvy. um..'.
registered to take them up as adver
tised. They will be given away on
nnrninrinr nrniivn
KHrhll Hi I Hr INK S
IIILUIULIII IILIUIIIaU
m .iiimiirnTin
IU WRGIIIl&dlU.i
(By Associated Pree)
Washington, Sept 6. To the
COTTON RECEIPTS.
Following are the cotton receipts
pro-
posal of the Entente Allies that neu-
the mudj
Roger Edmundson. the mainstay of
the Houston pitching staff In the
Texas League thla seaaon, paaaed
through the city thla afternoon en
route home to Forreaton. Edmundson
aaya there was not any way to keep
Waco from winning the pennant be
cause they had the best team In the
Texaa League,
T. W. Heard and V. T. Echola were
Ylsltors to the city yesterday after
noon.
aterm the fortified advanced position 'the character of each Individual mo
at the bridge head of Tutrakan and marine muat govern the case,
the Bulgarians occupied Debrlc.
I v Trailaa Tkr which la Von da V.
. 'In Tr. M n n tn HMM tAllaV
October 2nd. and as the harvesting - '
seaaon will be far advanced at that Br1ck ouse
time it Is expected there wtll be many Un,0B '"",
r. .v.. 'Lawrence ..warehouse ...
I Fifth Lady Regtaterlng Mlaa Mil
dred Zulch. Zulch. Texaa, one pound
can San Marto coffee. Cooper A Cole.
Fifteenth Lady
...1SS
...Mh
...ilU
C. II. B. Craham of Harvey waa In
town today.
Honored Dead Foe,
Berlin, Sept 8. Profeor Slebert
several years ago an exchange pro
fessor In the United State, waa kill
ed recently In an aerial action over.
the western front The following day
the Belgian victor dropped a bouquet
of rosea, with the Inscription, "A Bel
gian aviator's homage to a foe de
feated In aerial battle."
PATTER! SLAY
ERS ALLOWED 00
Total - 52TT
Street cotton sold today at 15
eenta: cotton seed told for 131.00. .
Registering Mr. tBi. dtte last year cotton
f-
Free-You Get It For Nothing-Free
The No-Vork Ice Cream Freezer
The latest and best thing out An ICE CREAM FREEZER built like a thermos
bottle, no crank, no cogs, no turning or no work to freese cream. Simply put In your
cream and pack with Ice. In thirty minutes your cream Is ready to serve. If not used
immediately It will keep for hours. PRICE 13.00 EACH.
WE HAVE SIX OF THESE WONDERFUL NO WORK, ICE CREAM FREEZERS
TO' GIVE TO THE FIRST SIX LADIES BUYINQ A HOOSIER KITCHEN CABINET.
The p-eatest labor saving device on the market, "It saves miles of steps." Sold only
bjTuVat the regular advertised price. Wo show several handsome styles.
$1.00 SENDS IT TO YOUR HOME, $1.00 A WEEK PAYS FOR IT.
It will make It easy for you to do your work; it will be easy for you to ray for It.
(By Assorts! Pre
Waco Texaa. 8ent 6. By agree
ment reached today between the elate
and the defense ball waa avowed each
of the two Watsons. J. E. and W. It,
tn the aum of 15.000. The Watson
were Indicted by the McLennan coun
ty grand Jury for the murder of John
8. Patterson, state banking commis
sioner. The bond of both men was
furnished and the case tet for trial
on September llth.
Sam Fraxler. Pitta Bridge, Texaa. two on y,, itre,ta of Bryan for
pairs 50ent silk hose. Edge Dry(WmUi ,nd old for HMO.
Goods Co. . Thr had been 2340 bales of cotton
Twentieth Lady Registering Ml received In Bryan on the tamo date
Mary Benbow. Bryan, Route 1. one iMt year.
14-pound aack White Crest flour, Reld .
Bros. ... I J as. O. Chance. Jr., arrived In the
Owner of Flrat Ford Car Register-1 tT yesterday afternoon from Tata
io v eik ti. . TWn worth. N. J, where he la attending
spark plugs, Johnson A Rhode.
the Davidson school. Young Chance
will remain tn the city for a month
visiting hla parenta.
George Lata, the gin man of Rell-
ance, waa looking after business mat
ters In the city today.
dry.
AMUSEMENTS.
Two of the biggest atars on the
screen wtU be seen In Bryan tonight
At the Dixie the famous beauty. Clara
Kimball Young, will be seen In one of
the new "Brady Made" masterpieces.
"The Feaat of Ufe." a grand, high
grade aoclety photoplay In five acta.
It Is a real masterpiece and tha price
of admission la only 10 cents.
At the Queen sweet little Marguer
ite nark will be seen In a beautiful
five act Paramount extra offering
"Silks and Satins." which la one of
the cutest and sweetest pictures ever
put out by this reliable concern. The
admission la IS cents. These two at
tractions are entirely out of the ordi
nary and everyone should make It a
point to see them both.
Seventh Gentleman Registering
Tom (Sorbet Tola, three can smoking
tobacco, J. T. Turner.
Fourteenth Gentleman Registering
C. B. Moore. Fdie. tl woth half
hose. Webb Bros. I
Twenty-first Gentleman Registering. Thirty-fifth Gentleman Registering
George P. Edge, Bryan, Rout 1, $1 B. A. Hugghlna, Knrten. 1 worth of
shirt. A. M. Waldrop A Co, auger. W. E. Saunders.
Twenty-eighth Gentleman Register! Forty-second Oentlepan Register
Ing-F. H. Pool, MUUcan, $1 cleaning Ing J. D. Maxwell lola. II cap.
or preaalng, American 8team Laun- Brandon A Lawrence,'
IMMIMMIMtM
VED0Irt VAUT YOUR BANK ACCOUNT
But We Do Vmt Yra Attention !
We want to remind you that we sell every
thing for the home. .We would like to show
you our stock of Furniture and Convince
you that HERE is the logical point at which
to make your purchases.
W. T. JAMES, Furnlturo
. l..r -j.ru -
