THE BARRE DAILY TIME
VOL. XX NO. 146.
1IAKKK, VK It MO XT, TUKSDAV, SKPTEMHKK .5. 1910.
riUCK, OXK CKXT.
BRITISH PUSH
EASTWARD OF
GUILLEMONT
Have Advanced 1,500 Yards
Beyond Town Captured on
Monday and Now Have a
Hold on Leuze Wood Near
Combles, Says the Official
Statement
ALSO WON GROUND
NEAR FALFEMONT
Since the Offensive on the
Somme Started the Brit
ish and the French Have
Captured 29 Towns The
French Repulsed German
Counter-Attacks
MONTTELIER
Adolph Johnson Climbed in Window and
Went to Sleep.
Adolph Johnson pj oarv in city eouit
thi morning on (lie charge of breach of
peace, having brcn arrested Saturday
night by (Mirer lb M win and Alo.Vvoy
i, the homo of George talie on Liberty
street. Ho was mI-( on bed in
room of tlio hnimt) when the oltiuer
reached the place mid it in alleged that
h rnteied the room through a window.
Ha wan sentenced to the county jail
fur three month and to par a line of $0
and cost. II paid the tine and cost
and placed on probation a to the
entence.
Harry C. Fowler of Northfleld was be-
fore the court on the charge of nun im
port of three children who are living in
Williamstown, to which he pleaded guil
ty. He nai placed on probation but
ai ordered to pay to Mm. (rtnulu
Lane of lmamstown $3 each .Monday
morning for the support of the rhildie.i.
William I haver arretted Sunday
by t hief Connolly on the charge of in
toxication to which he pleaded guilty
in oily court thia morning and expected
to be able to pay a tine of $. and costs
during the day.
RETALIATION
IS PLANNED
Congress Proposes to Treat
Foreign Nations as They
. Treat United States
DIED IN HOSPITAL
AFTER GETTING BLOW
SENATE ADOPTED
AN AMENDMENT
London, Sept. 5. British troops in bat
tics last night in the region of the river
Somrpc in France, increased their gain
in the neighborhood of (iiiilleniont, savs
the British oflicial statement this after
noon. The British forces pushed for
ward JoOO yards each of Giiillemont vil
lage and secured a hold on Leuze wood.
Further south a strong German system
of defense on a front of 3000 feet around
Fnlfemont farm wag captured.
Paris. Sept. 5. Vigorous counter-attacks
were made by the Germans north
of the Nomine river lust night in an ctlort
1u regain the ground taken in the ne.v
drive of the French, the war ollice itn
noiinred to-day. The Germans were re
pulsed with heavy losses. The admits
were delivered between Combles nnd
Forest, south-of the river. Unsuccess
ful blows were, struck by the Germans
cast of Belloy. The activities of the
I'rpiuh again are being hindered by bad
veathcr.
Comparative quiet still prevails on the
Macedonia front, the war office mv.
There were no infantry engagements yes
terday although the artillery was fairly
active and various enterprises were un
dertaken bv patrols.
The French official statement lust
night told of "a bloody battle" going on
nil both sides of the Somme. The state
nient reads as follows:
"The French have made fresh progress
east of the village of Forest north of
the river and on the south have suc
cessfully attacked objectives along a
front of 20 kilometers (12V miles) from
JSarlcux to Chaulnes.
"The village of Soyccourt bril
liantly carried by assault as well ns part
of Vermundovillcrs. Over 5000 prisoners
liave been tken north and south of the
Somme in the last two days.
"Progress was also made on the right
lank of the Meuse (Verdun sector) in
the Fleury region."
The .capture of Soteeourt and Chilly
by the French yesterday makes a total
of 29 villages taken since the start ot
the offensive on the Somme front.
Lewis X. Jerue in in Heaton hospital,
suffering with a broken left leg, an in
jury which be sustained whib; working
on the new Playhouse last Saturday. Hh
was engaged in moving some material
used in the roiiKtruction when the stuff
swung around against his leg. It was
thought at first that the leg was merely
bruised but later a fracture of one bone
was found.
Two automobiles collided on the Calais
road Monday morning, one of which vas
owned by Flmer George of Calais,
while the other is said to have been the
machine of F. 11. Iewart of Burlington.
The latter machine was the larger ;.nd
it broke one of the rods on the George
machine as well as doing other small
damage w hich was repaired after the ma
chine was brought to a Montpelier gar
age. It appears that the two cars wore
going slowly. The occupants escaped in
jury.
H. M. Farnham and son, Stanley, left
Sunday evening for another trip v. est
after horses. They went to western Iowa,
where they expect to purchase a half
carload of them and then return to Chi
cago to complete the car.
Mr. and Airs'. Claude Fisher have It
turned from a visit in Vergennes. A!
Fisher left lust evening for New York.
Mrs. Addic Harrington left last ecn
ing for Alt. Airy, S. C, where she will
visit with relatives. Paul, her son, has
gone to Boston for a few days in the
interest of the Mcl uen store.
Henry AIcKee, who has been visiting
here, lctt last evening for his home in
.Montreal. Airs. AtcKee will remain here
for a little while loiiger.
Airs. L. M. White, who has been visit
ing with Air. and Airs. A. J. Stone, left
last evening for her home in Dcn-er
Col. It is the first visit between brother
and sister in 34 years.
Forrest Crafts of Sacramento, Cel.
visiting with the Aliases Bmvers, bis
cousins.
Leonard Lawless and William Corvin
went to Rutland Sunday evening to At
tend the carnival.
Alayor J. At. Boutwell left Alonday
morning for Hartford, Conn., where he
will watch the trotting of his horses in
the grand circuit this week.
Aliis Helen AlcAvoy has returned from
a visit 111 Burlington.
Airs. F. H. Hall and son have re
turned from a two weeks' visit with rel
atives in Rutland.
Alias Gertrude Saxton, who has been
visiting here tor a tew weeiss witn rel
atives, left yesterday for Boston to re
sume her studies in school.
Airs. George St. John left Sunduy
noon for a visit in Nashua, J. H.
To Withhold Clearance from
Ships of Offending
Nations
FIRST CLASH OCCURS
ON RUMANIAN SOIL
The Russians Who Entered Rumania Are
Said to Have Repulsed the Bul
garian Cavalry.
Pctrograd, via London, Sept. 5. The
Russians and Bulgarians are fighting in
Rumania. The war office announced to
day that the first clash between the Bul
garians who have invaded eastern Ru
mania and the Russians who went in to
Assist Rumania occurred yesterday. The
Bulgarian cavalry outpost was sabered
by the Russian cavalry.
TALK OF THE TOWN
A LARGE SEIZURE
OF TEUTON GUNS
Russians Took Six Cannon, 35 Machine
Guns and Four Mine Throwers, To
gether with Over 4500 Prisoners.
Petrograd, via London, Sept. 5. In the
direction of Vladimir Volynski on t;ie
upper Sereth Volhynia the Russian
troops in the battles lasting from Thurs
day to Saturday captured 115 Teuton
ollicers and 4."00 men. They also took
ix cannon, 35 machine guns and four
.mine throwers. This information was
contained in the official announcement.
ITALIAN DIRIGIBLE ACTIVE.
Bombarded Austrian Military Works at
Lussinpiccolo.
Rome, Sept. 5. On the night of Sep
tember 3 an Italian dirigible, according
to the announcement made here, suc
cessfully bombarded tie Austrian mili
tary worka at Lussinpiccolo in the crown
land of Istria.
AIR RAIDS ON BELGIUM.
German Bases Attacked Twice By Brit
ish Aviators,
London, Sept. 5. British air raids over
JeJgiura were announced officially yes
terday in the following statement:
On Saturday the shipbuilding' yards
at Hoboken, near Antwerp, were success
fully bombarded by naval aeroplanes.
-On Sunday the enemy aerodrome at
(,h:etees (11 miles southwest of Bruges)
was bombarded with effect by a Urge
quadron of our machines. All returned
safely in both causa."
Afrs. Thomas G. Carson of Laurel
street suffered a shock Saturday morn
ing, paralysis affecting her left side. Her
Citv Engineer Frank I). Lee returnea
last night from Burlington, where he
passed the week-end with his mother.
Airs. Carrie Lee.
Aliss Agnes AIcKenzie of Philadelphia
arrived in the city Sunday night and will
visit relatives it. the city and vicinity
for a few days.
State Highway Commissioner Stoddard
It. Bates of Derby and Ernest Sheldon of
Fnosburg Falls were among the visitors
in the citv yesterday.
Joseph Kovalsky of Alaple avenue left
Saturday night for New York, where he
is passing several days on business con
nected with his tailor shop.
Herbert Junior has returned to his
home in Springfield, Alass., after passing
several days in the city as the guest of
Bert Blair of Academy street
Thomas W. Robertson of Los Angeles,
Cal., arrived in the city yesterday and
is visiting at the home of his brother,
John A. Robertson, at 7 Bolster avenue. I
It is nearly 15 years since the twoj
brothers had met.
W. A. Bradford of South Alain street.
who is taking a vacation from his duties
in the Central Vermont freight office, has
gone to Brattleboro and Rutland and will
visit his daughter, Afrs. Harold Alather,
in Springfield, Alass., before returning
home.
Judge II. W. Scott and Attys. John W.
Gordon and E. II. Deavitt went to Rut
land this morning to argue a motion be
fore Judge F. M. Butler of the superior
court in a chancery case brought by Xat
S. Page against Louise Brown of Plain
field. They will return to Barre this
evening.
Air. and Afrs. Gilbert Small. Miss Hazel
Guyer, Frank L. Small and James S.
Wilson of Eastern avenue returned to the
city last evening from Burlington, near
which city an automobile trip which they
planned to enjoy yesterday was inter
rupted by a broken main shaft. Mr.
Small and partv left their car in Bur
lington and made the trip home by train.
Washington. I). C, Sept. 5 An amend
ment to the revenue lull, authorising the
president during a war in which the
t'nited States is not engaged to with
hold clearance from all vessels which
discriminate against American snippet.
to withhold privileges from ships of
such nations as withhold privileges ac
corded other nations from American
ships and to use the army and navy, if
necessary to prevent the departure of
offending vessels from United States
ports, was adopted to-day by the Sen
ate.
An amendment of Senator Phelan of
California was also adopted, authorizing
the president bv proclamation to deny
the use of the mail, express, telegraph,
wireless or cable facilities to citizens ot
nations which do not accorj to Amer
icans all the facilities of commerce, in
cluding unhampered traffic in mails. This
amendment, it was declared, was aimed
particularly at British interference with
American mails.
The Chamberlain amendment prohibit
ing the admission of halibut and salmon
into the I'nited States except when in
bond from American ports was also
adopted. The amendment i directed
against Canadian fisheries of the Pacific
and to urge the development of American
fisheries there.
Edward Shaw of Manchester Depot it
Said to Have Been Mixed Up in a
Row and Authorities are
Investigating.
Rutland, Sept. fl. Edward Shaw of
Manchester leiot, a laliorer, died at tha
Rutland hospital yesterdav under rir
cuuistanccs which t-am-ed the Bennington
county authorities to make an investl
gat ion. State's Attorney F. C. Arehi
lald of Alanchester camo here yesterday
morning to look into the matter and at
hu request Dr. B. II. Stone of the Mate
laboratory of hygiene at Burlington came
to Rutland biter in the day and per
formed an autopsy.
Mr.. Archibald refue to give out any
information about the rase, but a dis
patch from .Manchester states that there
was a row in which blows were struck
and that Mr. Shaw received one In the
abdomen which mav have contributed
to his death. It ill probably he some
days before the result of the uutopsy is
made public.
Air. Shaw was 45 yesrs old. He is mr-
vived by his wife and children. He was
brought hero Saturday.
M0T0RMAN KILLED ON CAR.
BOSTON ALL AGOG.
Because Braves are Leading the National
League.
Boston, Sept. 5. With the Brave;
leading the National league to day they
begun the first of two series that will
go far to determine whether Philadel
phia, Brooklyn or Boston will gain ulti
mate honors. Philadelphia came here to
day for a five game series mid immediate
ly after these contests Boston meets
Brook! vn for four games. At the end of
that series it is expected to find the
winner of the pennnnt clearly indicated.
TALK OF THE TOWN
To-nicrht in the council chamber at citv
hall the couneilmcn will meet at 7 o'clock eaptured in Mi.sisquoi bay at Highgate
Regular meeting of ladies' auxiliary to
Clan Gordon will be held to-night at
:I5.
A. Lutz left last night for Plattsburg.
N. V., w here he plans to make a visit of
two weeks.
Aliss Elizabeth Beard of Brookfield
was among the business visitors in the
city this morning.
Airs. H. E. Rvdberg of Church street
has gone to South Ryegate for a visit of
a few davs with friends.
Arthur Parks of Pleasant street re
turned to hi home last night after visit
ing friends in Barnefc during the past
week.
Dr. John Af. Wheeler of New York, a
prominent eye specialist, was in the city
this week to assist a local practitioner in
an operation.
Air. and ALrs. Albert E. Tacey of South
Alain street have returned from Windsor,
where they attended the wedding of Air.
Tacey'e brother.
Airs. L. IL Bittterick, who has been vis
iting at the home of her son. C. H. But
terick, for several days, left this noon for
her home in Boston.
Aliss Edna Pearsons, who has been vis
iting friends on Beckley street during
the past two weeks, left this morning for
her home in Proctor.
lames Donald, who is emploved in the
granite industry here, is passing a few
days with Afrs. Donald and children at
their home in Newport.
Hobart Newell, who has been emploved
in electrical offices in this city since the
summer vacation commenced, left this
noon for Amherst, Alass.
P. V. Riford of Jefferson street re
turned to the city this morning after
visiting at his former home in East Ran,-
olph over the week-end and holiday.
Afiss Afarguerite Brown of Cliff street,
who is taking a two weeks' vacation
from the telephone office, left this noon
for Alanchester, N. H., where she will
visit relatives for a few days.
Airs. Eugenia Granger and daughter,
Miss Jeannette Granger, of Short street,
have returned to the city after visiting
relatives in St. Johns, P. Q., and Alont
real. Air. and Afrs. James Gow of Liberty
street entertained as guests yesterday
Mr. and Airs. AI. H. Hazen of South Roy
alton, Prof. L. Barouck of New York
City, Aliss AL Guilds of Lebanon, X. IL,
and Aliss Helen Stone of Windsor.
F. A. Slayton of South Arain street left
yesterday for Sheldon, where he will
groom his trotting horses before the
races that are to be held there during the
latter part of the week. Air. Slavton I
shipped his hordes to Sheldon from Aror
riville last Saturday.
At their store on North Alain street
Alerlo Bros, are exhibiting a giant turtle
Jesse Young, Former Rutland Chief of
Police, the Victim.
Rutland. Sept. 5. Jes.se Young, former
chief of police of this city, was instantly
killed Saturday afternoon at 3 oVIo-k. on
State street when a trolley ear of the
Rutland Railway, Light A Power Co.,
which he was driving, tumped the rails
just as it reached the end of a bridge
over Fast creek. The car, which turned
half around, missed by a narrow margin
going over a bank, into the stream. There
were a number of passengers on the car,
but the onlv one hurt was Ir. C. li. Ross
of Wet Rutland, who sustained severe
facial cuts. He sat in the front seat of
the car and was struck by a pole which
was felled by the vehicle.
Mr. Young was found on the sidewalk
with his face badly crushed. The jolt
threw him violently out of the vestibule
and it is believed that one of the forward
wheels struck his head.
Air. Young had worked for thu electric
company only a few months, having re
cently recovered from a serious illness.
He held the office of chief of police here
tor two years prior to the present incum
bent, ("apt. B. S. Hvlsnd. He was for
many years a railroad man and was a
member of the Order of Railroad Train
men. He was 40 years old and leaves his
wife and three children.
MYSTERY IS
NOW SOLVED
Body of William reck Was
Found in Swamp in
Berlin
HE DISAPPEARED
THREE MONTHS AGO
S. F. Richardson Found the
Remains While Hunt
ing for Cows
CAR WENT OFF BANK.
But Driver, Arthur McAllister, Was Nat
Much Hurt.
A heavy motor truck, owned bv AI
Allister Bros., East Barre merchants, and
operated by Arthur $. AleAllister, went
ovpr the high bank that skirts the high
way on upper Washington street' near
the Bolster reservoir, so called, this fore
noon. Air. AleAllister sustained a pain
ful hruise on a lower limb, but was aid
to assist in righting the car. although
the truck was not restored to the level
of the street until this afternoon. One
of the fore wheels was broken, but
apart from a few dents and jams, the
body and underparts were found intact
According to Air. AleAllister, be whs
coming to the city from East Barre and
as he neared a point opposite Phelps-'
mills, he turned his head to adjust a
fixture. When he looked ahead again,
the car was making rapidly for the bank.
It was too late to alter its course.
Half-way down the bank the car struck
a tree and lodged against its trunk.
Otherwise, it would have turned turtie.
it is thought. Air. AleAllister summoned
aid and before noon garage men from
the city were working on the car.
HORSE KICKED BOY.
Russell Bone Killed Friday at Wells
River.
Wells River, Sept. B. The community
is stunned by the tragic death Friday of
little Russell Bone, younger eon of Air.
and Airs. John Bone. The little fellow
ran up behind a high-spirited horse, hit
ting him with a strap. The horse kicked
the child on the forehead, knocking him
insensible to the floor. Dr. Hadley and
Afr. Bone were both in the barn when the
accident occurred. The child was rushed
to the Cottage hospital, where he died
early in the evening. The child was two
and a half years old. a sunnv. bright, i
lovable little fellow. The funeral service
was held Alonday afternoon at 2 o'clock
at the home.
The body of William Peck, aged about
S(l years, was found in a swamp on the
S. F. Richardson place in Berlin about fl
o'clock Monday morning by Air. Richard
son, who was after his cows. He was
walking through the swamp and almost
stepped on the body liefore he saw that
it was a human being. Air. Peck bad
been missing since spring, having wan
dered away one alternoon.
Selectmen S. F. Pike and Orrin Sawyer
were notified by Air. Richardson, who, in
turn, notified Health Officer Andrew Nor
ton. He conferred with the relatives of
the men and then gave authority for re
moval of the body from the swamp to
St. Johnsbiiry for burial.
For a week following June 12 the rela
tives of ALr. Peck searched the woods
and swamps in Berlin, tracing the man
here and there until they finally gave up,
being unable to locate him. It has al
ways leen the opinion of the family that
he would lie found in much the manner
as it turned out. He was seen on the
afternoon of June 12 going in the direc
tion of Xorthtleld on the road from Ber
lin pond to Xorthiield; but it was thought
that he must have been on his wav home
and that he thought he could eros the
fields to a shorter road, for he frequently
traveled over that route. He was accus
tomed to take long walks alone, but gen
erally returned at nightfall.
Air. Richardson found the man lyfrtg
on his back. The flesh had fallen from
the bones and the skull had rolled about
a foot from the bodv. Warner Hill, his
grandson, who was called, identified the
body as that of his grandfather because
of a ring on a finger and clothing.
The body was found on the lot which
some years ago C. C. Taft cleared by cut
ting off the wood, about a mile from Ber
lin Corners. The finding of the body re
lieved the feeling in the minds of the
family whether he was suffering any
where or had wandered away w here peo
ple did not know him.
He was tiorn in Wolcoff Nov. 12. lR2!t.
but lived most of bis life in St. Johns
bury. His wife died in 1011. Among
other relatives be w survived bv one
daughter, Afrs. Felix A. Hill of Alontpe-
ler; three grandsons, Warner Hill, em
ployed in the Alontpelier postoffice. Wal
ter Hill, who is with the Vermont regi
ment in Texas, and William Hill of Fast
Montpelier. He also leaves sisters living
in St. Johnsbury and Wolcott.
As soon as the bodv could be prepared
for burial it was taken 111 the C. P. Hatch
auto hearse, accompanied by the relatives
01 the deceased, to St. Johnsburv, where
a short service was held, with Rev. G. A.
Afartin, pastor of the Alethodist church,
officiating. Burial was in the family lot
in Mount I'leasant cemeterv.
INGALLS MELCHER.
LABOR PRAISED
FOR ITS WORKS
Barre Young Woman and Fairfield, Me., I
Man Married To-day.
Mi.s Velum Atelcher, daughter of ex-
Ma vor C. W. Alel.her and Mrs. MeUher
of Jll Park street, and Jainea W. In-
galls of Fairfield, Me., son of Air. and
Mrs. J. F. lugalls of Lynn, Alass., were
married at l:3't oclock tin Htlcriiooii
The ceremony took place in the parlors
at Hotel Haire, liev. K. (i. I.ipky. a
tor of the Heddiuu Methodist church, of
ficiating, the double ring service b"lng
used. Ilnlv immediate member 01 the
two families were prci.ent. Afterward 11
wedding dinner was served and later .Mr.
and Mrs. IngalU left 011 a bridal tur.
Thev will make their home for a tmi'J
in Km ir fit-Li. Me., where the griami i en
gaged as the UHsifMnt civil engineer fo!
the Maine tentral railroads. .- ,
The groom is a graduate of Dartmctit
college, HUH, and of the Thayer 'hoi .
in !H. The lu ide pursue I a cours-; ;uiwcss Ui. OOITiewnab
household economic in Boston. , ATr,..,l t T T., C
TI...M- 'rcM t tro.n out of the . uoiicu uy uiildvui-
were: .Mr. and .Mrs. .1. t. ingaiis, ai s
lugalls and L. .1. Dickermnn of l.y ;
Mas., and Aliss Alice V. AJelchef C
Buffalo. N. Y.
In Address Delivered by Rev.
Edgar Crossland at
the Park
OGRAM OF SPORTS
ALSO CARRIED OUT
able Weather
JOHNSTON GOLF CHAMPION.
B0NACC0RDS GOOD EATERS.
CONCLUDES HIS PASTORATE.
Rev. Nelson Kellogg of Brattleboro Goes
to Portsmouth, N. H.
Brattleboro, Sept. 5. Rev. Nelson Kel
logg, who concluded Sunday his pastor
ate of St. Michael's Episcopal church, an
nounced from the pulpit at the morning
As They Demonstrated at Corn Roast
Held on Fall Outing.
The Bonaccord fall outing and corn
roast was held at the Amos Hall farm
jon the east hill yesterday and despite the
intermittent showers some loO people
gathered to enjoy the eports. Air. Hall
had his large barn cleared for dancing
and the rafters rang with the strains of
the Scottish bagpipes and Drum Piper
Isaac Riddell was in fine fettle, the
drumming of the club "sec" adding zest
to the dancers. Handsome prizes, pre
sented by (I. AL Alarrion and Petrie &,
AfcAlillan, were keenly competed for be
tween showers. The following is the
prize list: Indies' place kick. Aliss Bella
Thomson OS feet. Airs. ebster n.'t feet;
married Indies' race, Airs. W. Inniss 1st,
Airs. C. (ireig 2d; married men's race,
C. (ireig 1st, J. Craig 2d, A. Simpson 3d;
club members race. W. Keir 1st, W. Ill
ness 2d, A. Ross 3d; men's place kick,
W. Kier 123 feet and 7 inches, A. Ross
122 feet and 10 inches, W. Deams 120
feet; quoits, W. Kier 1st, G. Alowatt 2d;
ladies' race. Airs, Inness 1st. Airs. Web
ster 2d: boys' race. L. Webster 1st. J.
Hemic 2d. J. Gray 3d: girls' race. Alary
Clark 1st, Chrissie Gordon 2d, Lizzie
Won Title of Barre Golf Club Other
Labor Day Competitions.
William H. Johnston won the golf
hampionship of the Bane (,olf club for
!Mi) on Labor day, defeating J. Comolli
3 up and 12 to iilav. Johnston played
good golf, having scores of 3,", 37 and 37
for the first three rounds, the fourth lie-
ng, of course, not finished. Johnston lias
been coming along fast in golf during the
season now ending and is likelv to be one
of the club's mainstays at the state tour
nament another year.
The finals for the losing eight in the
championship were played off Alonday
also, J. Freeland winning from J. l.elie
and taking the president's prize. James
Rot)ertson defeated W. Lovie in the third
eight.
The first round of the championship
resulted as follows: Walsh lieat Leslie;
Johnston beat McMillan -. P. Brown beat
Reid; Stewart beat Danial; Abbott beat
Alarrion; Comolli beat Kenefick; A.
Freeland beat . -L Freeland and Stuart
bent Averill. In the second round John
ston beat Walsh, Stewart beat Brown,
Comolli beat Abbott anil Freeland beat
Stuart. The semi-tinals resulted as fol
lows: Johnston beat Stewart and Co
molli beat A. Freeland, bringing John
ston and Comolli together for the finals.
with the result as above noted.
The losing eight competition resulted
as follows: Leslie beat .McMillan. Daniel
beat Reid. Alarrion beat Kenefick, J
Freeland beat Averill. In the semi finals
for the president's cup Ieslie beat Daniel
and J. Freeland best Alarrion while in
the finals J. Freeland beat Leslie.
In the third eight competition Robert
son beat G. E. -Milne and Lovie beat H.
Jackson. In the finals Robertson won
from Lovie.
Two very interesting competitions
were played off on tabor day and a large
number of players and their friends were
present during the day. In the forenoon
there was an IS hole match against bo
gey. A. W. Freeland won first, being
four up on bogey. J. E. Walsh won sec
ond, being three up, and J. Freeland won
third, eing two up on bogey. In the after
noon there was an IS hole two-ball four
somes, with handicaps, in which P.
Brown and J. Freeland won first and H.
Brown and J. Robertson won second.
Still another match was played ofT Labor
dav when J. E. Walsh and A. W. Free-
land met, these two players having a tie
in their section of the round robin tour
nament. They played off to see which
was to enter the tinl match of 36 holes.
This was a very close match all through
and they had to go two extra holes be
fore Walsh won out on the 20th green.
Walsh, therefore, plays off with the win
ner of the other section, which ha not
been decided as vet.
talior'a Mllying day in Barre was ac
corded the place that is it due in tha
program of legal holidays by a complete
suspension of work in offices, shops and
stores; but the weather wasn't what the
celebrators of Labor day needed to make
the occasion a booming success. The
Central tabor union staged a big picnic
at Intercity park, and what with lse
ball, speechmaking, football and other
competitions, it provided entertainment,
instruction and amusement, among other
things, for a large number of people. The
labor committee supplied everything but
the weather, which is saying a good deal
for the committee and as little as pos
sible for the weather clerk. It dawned a
bleak September morn and before noon
the skies had fulfilled the morning's
promise of intermittent showers.
Naturally plans in general for the ob
servance of the day gravitated toward
the park and apart from a spirited con
cert by the Christoforo Colombo band in
the morning tabor dav right here in the
city was pretty much like the preceding
day. The young Italian musicians, un
der the leadership of Prof. P. Gropclli,
played with admirable elan and their ef
forts were well received by a consider
able crowd.
Early in the day it became evident
that the labor people would have to put
the weather on the unfair list. Rain
made deep gaps in the attendance at the
park, but the committee decided to go
down the line with tha .program. Rev.
Edgar Crossland's stirring address on
"The Alelting Pot of Labor," was the
center of attention soon after the noon
hour. The clergyman was introduced by
Alexander Ironside. His address was a
comprehensive study of the labor prob
lem in its multitudinous phases and per
haps the best contribution of its kind in
the annals of organized labor's Septem
ber picnics 111 this vicinity. Bevond anv
doubt he struck a note that was wholly
pleasing to his auditors and ther were
not elow in voicing their approval of his
remarks. His speech was given substan
tially as follows:
AGAIN CHAMPION TEAM.
Granite City Hose Showed Heels to Com
petitors in State Tournament.
A telephone message from Rutland
this noon announced that the hose run
ning team of the Granite City company
of Barre had again won the tournament,
with a run of 44 i seconds. The tourna
ment of the State Firemen's association
was finished this forenoon, the event
having leen postponed from last night
because it was impossible to complete
the trials of the fourteen entries befora
darkness set in. To-day the Granite
Citv team knocked one-quarters ot a
second off the time made by the OleiiS
Falls, X. Y., team last night. The barre
City team scored 47 and 2-3 seconds, b;
ing well up in the list.
In the hub and rub race the Granite
City team was beaten out by only three
yards.
BEER SEIZED AT PICNIC.
Gray 3d: girls' race. Flora McDonald 1st.
Annie King 2d. v hrissie Gibson .10; bovs
service that Rev. J. Frederick Virgin of raee I" fireiir ir. 1st A. Paul 2d: wid-
Elizabeth, N. J., bad accepted the cull to owe' race. Airs. Fraser 1st, Airs. t;ibon the Main- town autnorn ics, wnen a wag
the church and would be-in his duties 2d. Afs. Avers 3d: shootintr competition, on containing four barrels of beer was
Montpelier Man Arrested on Charge of
Illegal Transportation.
Picnickers at a Spanish outing in Gran
itevillc Sunday were sharply aware that
a clean -up policy nas neon auopiea oy
Sept. 17. Rev. Afr. Virgin has been the
rector of Grace church in Elizabeth. He
has a wife and three children. Rev. Mr.
Kellogg goes to Portsmouth, N. IL. from
which city he received a
weeks ago.
Mr. Crossland's Speech.
Afr. President, Ladies and Gentlemen:
This nation, with all it represents and is,
is labor's contribution to the present sum
of human peace and happiness. Within
little more than a hundred years, with
the aid of her twin servants, capital and
science, she curved it out of the depths of
primeval forests and the solitudes of the
pathless prairies, tunnelled its moun
tains, bridged its streams, harnessed its
waterfalls, revealed the hidden treasures
of its fields and mines, builded its vil
lages and towns, established its cities,
reared within its borders homes innumer
able, and bound tbem all into one with
bands of steel and endless threads of
wire. Through the divine ministry of
toil of hand and brain the fullness of tha
land is ours.
"Every nation sets aside certain days
which are peculiarly associated with its
growth and vital experiences. About
those days are entwined those deep emo
tions, thoughts and yearnings that give
character to national life. They are the
days for remembering what ha been and
for gathering inspiration and hope for
the future. They are the fountain head
of the spiritual forces of the nation the
forces which give direction and value to
all else. Those whose physical and men
tal creative power has made possible the
industrial and commercial progress of
America have won the right to one of
the great national holidays. It is a right
of transcendent importance, and one that
must be cherished.
"tabor day belongs to the working
people of America, let us therefore ob
serve the day as its importance and sig
nificance demands. Our theme, 'The
Alelting Tot of tabor,' is a vital topic of
the day.
"Of course. I know there are those of
the employer class who will say. 'tat the
minister stick to his own business, let
him preach the simple gospel,' which is
to be understood as another way of tell
ing the ministers to keep their hHnds off
of all living issues. I would reply that
the separation of church and state does
not mean the separation of ministers
from all ethical, social and moral re
forms. I am not entering into the mere
incidents of the "higgling of the market.'
CLEAVES AGAIN PRESIDENT.
for the regular meeting deferred from
last evening on account of the holiday.
Warrants for a month's accumulation of
bills are to be approved and at 8 o'clock
the council will adjourn to participate in
the board of civil authority meeting in
the court room. Action on the South
Alain street bridge project is held in
abeyance, pending the opening of bids
next Afondar. Voters who expect to ex-
ercle the franchise at the primaries one
week from to-day will have their lat
opportunity to get their names on th
checklist at tha civil amhnrilj in fp )trs.
Springs by Paul Scampini and John Bos-
si. J he turtle weighed 4s pounds on
the grocer's scales at the Springs and
does not appear to have lost any weight
since it left the lake.
Dr. and Alra. P. S. Duffy and child of
North Main street have gone to Xewark,
X. J, where ther expect to reside. Dr.
Duffy has withdrawn his professional
connection with several fraternal orders
in Barre, although he bss not tendered
his resignation as city physician, an of
fice whuh he has C!W for nearlv two
Automobile Club Elects Officers L. H.
Greene Secretary-Treasurer.
The annual meeting of the Automobile
Club of Vermont was held Sa turds T at
Montpelier in the memorial room of the
city hall and Dr. K. L. tlesve ami Les
ter II. Greene of Alontpelier were re
elected president and secretary-treasurer,
respectively.
Sec. Greene reported the memVrsh'p to
be 1.7 and the receipts for the year in
cash amounted to 4.WfiJ2. of" which
there is a balance of $19.13. The cot
of printine the registration book, which
was iucd in June, amounted to At.
A.Allen 1st. W. Kier 2d. .Most success- j seized ny Deputy Mierin Dennis ima
ful competitor, W. Kier. I hue, w ho arrested Alareoea tavin of
The club President presented prizes at ! Montpelier on a charge of illegal trans-
. ". ' . . ' . 1 ti... .11 i ,.,r.i..,
tne close ot tne events ana awo oresenreu i "iiiiiii.ii. no- n..... ,....,.. , , ,r; tn th .. t-o.
, !..-. 1 J : ; l. 1. i:.... I,u,l,.iiart.r u,,fl I o i ,v ' ' "" " " L .....
can several J .Air. ana .Mrs. nan a imnusooii: i-m oil; i on um m j.-u,, ,,. .....j.
set, a gift from the club and friends, was piv-.-n a preliminary hearing before
Air. Kail replied suitably. The corn I Alagistrate II. W. Scott in city court
roast at the close of the sporting event ! yesterday. He pleaded not guilty to the
... - , . . ! , J r I 1 u-:i ,L.
reflects great credit on -Mr. ana .vir. cnarce ana ium....-., .0 sum o, , mp fo Up ,vhat,.V(r jnjllI.jous be-
llall, who saw to it that everyone got a $.-.( for his appearance at a hearing I jn ,ho M J)(, ,jf(, ()f t, voHs
good share of the toothsome food. 1 he j Thursday morning. if ,pMl?i )ipv arp to ,e wrn
it is aiiegea oj ,ne auti.oni.es that -Mv toncrption of the minister', worth
beer and h.skey in wholesale quantities L ,( holll(, f(1 wif,t ,a gw.Von
are beine transported into Gr8nitev.Ile , , (T - . .
the price of health, strength, brain, char
acter and life. Amelioration of evil con
ditions is certainly more Christian than
indifference to the world's sorrows. Alen
Air. and AIr. B. P. Whit of Alaple
Grove returm-d to the city la -t evefiinff.
sfter passing the summer in amp at
take a-i'-sn. Greenln. Airs. Mafx-1
automobiles were ready to take the com
pany home but the club members decided
to hike it. and they reached Barre around
! o'clock. They created a flurry as they
marched along North Alain street with
pre. Mowatt leading and Piper Riddell
and the penial "Sec" playing pipes and
drums. The party dispersed at IVpot
square.
PAGE SPENT MORE
But Fletcher Was Very Close Second, ;
According to Statements.
and Wehter ille. and a determined effort
is being made to stop the practice.
isiieak airainst every wrot.e. and stromr-
Irst to rally the moral forces of the eom-
imunity against everything that threat
ien the better life among men.
I "W hen I express approval of the labor
a I movement. 1 do not approv everything
connected with it. any more than I ap
, prove of everything that has been done
Wsterbury. Sept. .". Pa-senger traffic j sme of Christ. The topics 1 di-
on the Centra! Vermont railroaJ was de-!(U, to-day are so vital that anv rresen-
laved for seeral hours Sunday because : ta t ion of them is bound to be miscon-
CENTRAL VERAI0NT WRECK.
Sleeper Held Up at Waterbury By
Freight Derailment.
;of the derailment of sevrral cars of a '.true I in some ouarter. Nevertheless.
Washington, D. C, Sept. S. Campaign J heavy freight train three miles nrCi of ! there -re-ns to he only one course for an
expense statements CM yesterday in-J this town. h'.nesf mn. w hii h is to say his word an I
elude the following: j The Montreal Boston b-ep r was hell ; j.tienily emiure misunderstanding and
fs-r.st.r Tage of Vermont. "..V.4. no 1 up for e:r! i hour at B!t.n and thepren n slicions abuse. The labor mote-
tide and daughter, Helen, who h'e twn j contributions: Allen AL Fletcher. ent-t-j northbound !e-p-r wa d. lived for sis jnn-nt. it I understand it rightly i, in its
at take ( apian, are visiting relatives ii.g Senator Page, fS.31.t, no eontriln- hours at W aterbury. No t,e w hurt'
in Calais. tions. in the ao.i lent to the freight traji. (Continued on fifth pay?.)
