VOL. LVIII. NO. 175
POPULATION:28,219
NORWICH, --J A., SATURDAY, JULY 22, 1916
PRICE TWO CENTS
16 PAGES 120 COLUMNS
The Bulletin's Circulation in Norwich is Double That of Any Other P? , and Its Total Circulation is the LargesJ in Connecticut in Proportion to the City's Population
VIOLENT FIRE ON
27 MILE FRONT
Two Hundred Thousand
Allied
GERMANS YIELD GROUND AT HARDECOURT
Retire From First to Second Line Trenches Over Two Mile
Front Berlin Claims 2,000 British Killed in Attack on
Frommes, Besides Nearly 500 Prisoners Von Linsingen
Retiring Before Advancing Russians at Confluence of
Styr and Lipa.
The intensity of tho British and
Fr.noh attacks a trains, tho German
fri r.t nor.h and south of the Somme
jiivtr in Northern France appears to
!: ivo U-ssc-no-l greatly, according to the
lit-.st oin-M.-.l ftati-nif nts. London de
clares a lull has tet in on the British
fn-.n: and the Paris official statement
f f Frid.iy n!e-ht givo? no activity
alongr tho whole front from North of
'he tfimmo to pwitzerland.
In the saiient t l.tpsio redoubt, the
"Tf-rr.ifLns entered the lines held by
ione:ral Ha.-t's forces, hut were eject
ed suhMHiuvntiy, London asserts.
Artillery Fire Along 27 Mile Front.
Tho Anglo-French attacks against
the Cierman linet; north and south of
Th" Somme en Thursday were fruit
!fs, oecordine' to Berlin, except on a
tir) mile front south of Hnrdecourt,
v. nere tho Germans retired from first
'o second line trenches about eight
hundred kilometres in the rear. The
':-T ick. Bertln states, was preceded by
a violent artillery fire on a front of
rr.ore t.hftn 27 miles and was partici
r.i'ed in by mere tiiari 200,000 men.
British Lost 2,500 Men, Berlin Says.
North of Xa F.asee and attack Wed
rfFday by the British in the region of
Frommes resulted in disastrously for
them, Berlin says, the Britishers los
ir.tr more than C.iX'O men killed and
.r!y ro n.en made prisoners.
Dni-ster Floods Check Russians.
'.! ' n the Pnl ester preventing
ar. i .i.;vun :e further Into Galicia from
the : !t':i and east for the time being,
t.-.e Rusians are driving: In the Aus-tro-iermans
toward the northern Gal-
-n border, beiow Vladimir-Volynik.
Central Powers Admit Retirement
i "th I'a rlin and Vienna admit the
r--:rernr-r.t of part of General Von
Linsin-n's forces from the region of
e Confmene of the Styr and Lipa
I. .vers to Berestechk, nort hof Erody.
Petrograd Claims 1,600 Prisoners.
P.';rorrad asserts the retirement of
the Austro-Germans was the result of
an impetuous attack, in which more
than l.t'f prisoners were taken. Ber
lin and Viei ria fay the withdrawal
wis made n the expectation of an de
veloping m-r.-etnent.
Russian Advances Against Turks.
Turks.
In addition to capturing Gttmusk
haneh, 45 maes northwest of Baiburt.
the Russians in Turkish region are
advancing in other sectors.
Artillery fighting appears to occupy
the opposing forces on the Austro
Italian front g'-norlly. Rome, how
ever, reports the capture of further
trenches on .Mer.to Maio.
EAVARIANS COUNTED
2,000 BRITISH DEAD
Berlin Claims Repu'se at Frommes and
Denies Allies' Figures.
BeTlln. July 21 via London 10:45 p
m. The war office today trave out a
contradiction cf the Lri.fch official
communication of Thursday sent by
the Poldhu wireless .-tation, that one
battalion of the "ll&th" rezlment, con
sisting of 1,100 men, lost SiO men and
two other battalions of the same regi
ment each more than half their ef
fective strength.
"With the purpose of stigmatizing
such reports and tranquiiizing the peo
ple at home." the Herman communi
cation continues, "it may be remark
ed the retrimept's entire losses in re
cent weeks until yesterday were hap
pily slightly j.-.-s than five hundred
men. Therefore 1k loss, however, de
plorable in ltse-lf. amounts to only a
quarter of t!-,e English allegation."
119th On Ypres Salient.
The British press bureau appends a
note to the German communication
pointing out that the Poldbu message
mentioned the 100th regiment and not
the 119th, which is the Wurttemburg
rfgiment stationed on the Tpres sa
lient, where it has had no serious
i.hting during the last four weeks."
"if in that t'me," the prees bureau
continues, "it lost five hundred men,
this is a gratifying result. The loss
ts of the li'Oth regiment therefore re
main unchanged."
First Trenches Abandoned at Harde
court. The statement admits that the Ger
man line along a front about three
kilometres (two miles) south of I lard -eecurt
was driven from its first trench
es into its second trenches, 800 me
tres In the rear. Enemy forces, the
statement says, penetrated Into the
German salient at the wood of Ver
mandovillers. Counted 2,000 Dead Britishers.
"An attack by the E-ngllss In the
region of Frommes on Wednesday was
executed, wo have established, by two
Btronsr divlsione). The brave "Bavarian
division, before whose front the at
tack took place, counted on the ground
in front of them more than two thous.
and enemy killed and brought in hith
erto 431 prisoners, including ten of
ficers, and 16 machine guns.
"On both sides of tho tone the
enemy yesterday, as; was expected,
prepared, to deliver a. main blow, tmti
'it failed after' the 'sVKmeet fires pre
ipfrrationJover a. front of about forty
' kilometres - (atoo 27mil83).
200,000?TalAPart: In Attaoka.
"Attacte$feetmadefrlora south of
, Poaiere -twfi-ofc- Vermandovillers.
Men Participated in the
Attack
with more than 200,000 men partici
pated in the attacks.
The result Is that the first line of
the German division along a front of
about three kilometres of Hardecourt
was pressed back from its foremost
trenches Into the next trenches, lv
ing S00 metres behind, and enemy di
visions penetrated into the salient of
the little wood of VermandviHers.
FRENCH COLONIALS
SHOW CONSPICUOUS VALOR
Took ECO Prisoners and 12 Machine
Guns in One Assault.
Paris, July 21, 8.10 p. m. French
colonial troops played a conspicuous
part in the latest offensive along the
River Somme. Immediately before the
action Lieutenant Colonel L told
his men that they would have to
measure arms with a powerful and
weil armed force, but. he said, "I
have seen you at work and I know I
can count on you. Forward?"
Not long afterward, his men. In an
impetuous assault captured three lines
of Germa ntrenches, 12 machine guns
and more than 500 prisoners. Anoth
er exploit occurred near Estres. An
infantry column entered a subterrane
an fort, strongly defended bv a ma
chine gun section. Led by Its chiefs,
it attacked the works with such feroc
ity that the machine gunners were sur
rounded and put out of action without
being able to give the slightest resist
ance, uniy one Frenchman was
wounded during the assault.
Not far from Belloy-en-Santerre,
near the Amiens-Peronne road, an of
ficer of the colonial troops was wound
ed in the head by a bullet from a ma
chine g-un. Almost blinded by blood,
he turned toward his men and said
simply: "Avenge me.''
With these words his troops threw
themselves upon their adversaries with
the bayonet, says a witness.
Among some of the prisoners taken
in the vicinity of the Somme. were
Wurterburgers, Saxons, Bavarians and
Prussians. For the most they were
very young, averaging between seven
teen to twenty years. The captives
included an entire company of a reg
iment which took active part In the
capture of Fort Vaux. One of the
prisoners, admitted his regiment had
been brought hastily from Verdun on
July 12 and put immediately in the
first line to replace Bavarian Land
strum troops.
VIENNA ADMITS WITHDRAWAL.
Retired from Lipa Salients to Escape
Russian Flanking Movement.
Vienna, July 21 via London 9:43 p.
m- Under the pressure of attacks by
fhe Russians the '.Austro-Hungaxian
forces in the region of the Styr and
Lipa rivers, north of the Galician bor
der, have been forced to withdraw to
new positions in the region of Beres
techk, says an official statement is
sued by the war office today.
The statement says:
"In the sector at the mouth of the
Lipa the enemy attacked after artil
lery preparations which lasted sever
al days. His advance by way of
Werben, was arrested. Nevertheless,
we withdrew our salient positions be
fore the threatened surrounding move
ment of Berestechk."
Food Shortage in Germany.
Amsterdam, via London, July 21,
11.50 p. m. The "Berliner Tage'blatf'
says at a recent conference at Darm
stadt with regard to the food situation
Adolph T. Von Batocki, president of
the German Food Regulation board,
frankiy admitted that there was a
shortage of food stuffs, especially in
towns.
COST OF LIVING "
DOUBLED
IN IRELAND
Bread is Nine Cents a Loaf, Sugar
Nine Cents a Pound.
Washington, July 21. Since the out
break of the war the cost of living in
Ireland has increased 41.2 per cent. A
consular report, to the Department of
commerce today says bread is nine
cents for a two pound loaf, sugar nine
cents a pound, milk seven cents a
quart and butter 92 cents a -nound
These prices were forty to fifty higher
man normal.
Villistas Have Taken to Mountains.
Reports received at Ctarranza head
quarters in Juarez today are all to the
effect that the Villa followers have
broken up into small bands and taken
to the Durango mountains. The Jua
rez officials says they believe any
danger of the Villa party again be
coming: a. power has passed.
Football Star Out for Wilson.
New York, July 21 Eddie Mahan.
athlete and football star of Harvard
university, -will lead the Woodrow
Wilson college men's league In tho
presidential campaign, Democratic Na.
tional Chairman Vance McCormick
said here .tonig;bt before leaving tor
Va6fcington.
Forty Kllledh, In MaoeicojCityv-Storm -Mexrtco
City, 4k July - 21. Forty per
sons,' including a number of soldiers
and women, nce;kiUed. durku? 'a,veryi
uaavsre,
Jighiiia iritormjrom vewj, York tairf,viclmtjifeaiiiiBrf'
Cabled Paragraphs
Martial Law Revoked in Spain.
Madrid. July 21 via Paris 7:15 p. m.
The government today revoked its
declaration of martial law. The mil
itary censorship of press despatches,
however, remains in force in order to
prevent the publication of cemment on
the European war.
PROTEST AGAINST
BRITISH BLACKLIST
Fifty Firms Will Fight Tracing With
the Enemy Act Government In
quiry. "Washington, July 21. Inquiry as to
why certain business concerns in the
United States have been placed on a
blacklist under Great Britain's trad
ing with the enemy act were directed
to the British government by the
state department today through both
the British embassy here and Ambas
sador Page at London..
At the time Mr. Polk had not herd
that Ambassador Page had been hand
ed a memorandum by the British for
eign office answering specific com
plaints made in the American note.
This memorandum will serve to allay
the Impatience of the state depart
ment only partially, however, as offi
cials are most anxious to receive a
definite reply to the general protest
against the interferences with mails
between the United States and neu
tral countries.
The understanding here that the
French foreign office has sent to Lon
don a draft of a note and that des
patch of the joint reply is being de
layed there.
A request for general information
concerning the application of the act
to firm in the United States alraedy
had been made informally to tho Brit
ish embassy as a preliminary step to
formal representations. Today's ac
tion was based upon complaints from
the concerns about which the depart
ment inquired.
The action of Great Britain in plac
ing nearly 100 firms and corporations
in this country on the so-called black
list was discussed today at the cabi
net meeting. Indication was express
ed, but it was agreed that no course
of action could be determined until
the statement department conx.olotcly
an investigation.
Firms Organize In New York.
New York, July 21. -Representatives
of fifty of the 82 blacklisted by Great
Britain under the trading with the
enemy act met here today to form an
organization to fight the action of the
British government. Although the
meeting lasted three hours the only
public statement made at its close
was that "it was unanimously decided
to designate a committee of five to
formulate a plan of action.
It was learned from individual mem
bers, however, that a temporary or
ganization with officers had formed
and that a course of action had been
outlined.
f The meeting was held in the rocms
of the German -American Chamber of
Commerce.
"But," said Heinrich Charles, "sec
retary of the chamber, "the impres
sion must not go abroad that the
chamber has any connection with the
organization. The chamber merelv
extended to the blacklisted firms the
courtesy of meeting here."
Information is sought specifically
regarding a number of firms, the
names of which have not been made
public by the department. There i
no discussion of principles in the in
quiry, that matter being left for at
tention after the American govern
ment is fully informed on th-a facts.
ANOTHER SUBMARINE
EXPECTED MONDAY
Deutschland's Captain Says He'll See
Baltimore Friends Again in a Few
Weeks.
Baltimore, Md July 21. Captain
Paul Koemg and fourteen members of
the crew of the submarine Deutschland
were feted tonight by thousands of
Baltimore citizens of German extrac
tion at a celebration at Canstatter
Park under the auspices of the local
branch of the German and Austrian
.n.ea truss. Liipiain ioenig made a
Drier address m which he said:
I will see you again within a few
weeks.
Congressman G. u . Edmunds of
Philadelphia, visited the Deutschland's
pier late this afternoon and asked Cap
tain Rinson of the North German
Lloyd steamer Neckar to permit him
to board the Neckar for a view of the
submarine. He was told that no
more passes were being issued to the
Neckar, but Captain Hinson invited
iiuu udi-iv 011 iviunud) , wnen another
suomarine just iiKe the Deutschland
will be in." he said. The stalwart ne
gro guard at the entrance of the
Neckar's pier was told that his ser
vices would not be needed after to
day, but that he would be wanted next
week when the Bremen arrived.
ALLIED WARSHIPS PATROL
OFFVIRGINIA CAPES
Have Drawn in Close to Three-mile
Limit.
Norfolk, Va, July 21. Allied war
ships which have been lying off the
Capes for several days drew in closer
to the three-mile limit todav and be
gan a rigid patrol, constantly moving
along a lane of perhaps 15 miles.
The exact number of ships in the
patrol is unknown here.
A rumor was current today that
German submarines acted as a convoy
to the Deutschland on her trip and
are waiting a short distance -out in
the Atlantic to return with her. There
was no direct evidence tending to
confirm the story.
LEAST NEW CASES
SINCE THIRD OF JULY
80 Victims on Friday But Heat Will
Increase Paralysis Numbers.
New. York, July 21. Although re
ports to the department of health to
day showed only eighty new cases of
infantile paralysis, the smallest num
ber since July 3, the authorities to
night warned the public not to bp
come optimistic Commissioner Hav en
Emerson asserted he would not be
at all surprised if an increase instead
of a decrease was sbown by tomorrow,
owing: 'to the intense heat here.
The fact that many nearby cities
have quarantined against New York
led today to a discussion of the ad
visability of establishing a detention
camp here.,
' 1 "
Rfgidr-ExcJuaioiv. atNorwa!k.
NorwaJk, 'Conn-,. July" 21. As a -pre -J
caution against inianme paralysis the
oaxd of health tonight .adopted a res-
olutiort'cloeing the oi'tyto allfchildren
Mexir-; Embargo
is Now Lifted
BUT
RESTRICTIONS RIGID
MUNITIONS OF WAR.
ON
CONGESTION ON BORDER
Industries in Mexico Will Profit by
Broad Order of Treasury Depart
ment 4,000 Carranza's Troops Em
bark Against General Cantu in Low
er California.
Washing-ton, July 21. All restric
tions upon the movement of exports
Into 'Mexico except munitions of war
and machinery for their manufacture
were removed today by order of the
Treasury Department.
without the formality of a procla
mation an embargo on shipments in
to Mexico was put into effect by cue-
THE RED QUEEN'S COUNTRY
Have your business efforts led you into the Red Queen's country?
You remember how "Alice in Wonderland" ran and ran until her
legs were tired only to find that after all of her effort she was just
where she stared?
"Where I come from," she said to the Red Queen, "we arrive
somewhere else when we run like this;" whereupon the Red Queen
informed her that "in her country" it was necessary to run ever so
much faster to stay in the same place.
If your business is running without getting you anywhere, the
morning newspaper will help you out of the Red Queen's country.
The morning newspaper is a modern pioneer a leader in the
world of everyday affairs. It ushers in the day makes its appear
ance in the home ready to start the reader on his day's journey and
the suggestions it contains are received at the moment when they will
have the greatest influence.
"Run" your advertising in the morning newspapers in Norwich
choose The Bulletin and you will "arrive."
During the past week the following matter has appeared in The
Bulletin's columns:
Bulletin Telegraph Local Genera Total
Saturday, July 15.. 177 158 934 1269
Monday, July 17. . 176 144 280 600
Tuesday, July 18.., 6 137 136 434
Wednesday, July 19.. 168 164 232 564
Thursday, July 20.. 163 150 271 584
Friday, July 21.. 180 132 160 472
Totals . .,. .1025
toms and military authorities soon
after Villa's raid upon Columbus. Two
weeks ago. the state and war depart
ments agreed to lifting of restrictions
upon exports of food and clothing and
later to the movement of household
good and of fuel in reasonable quanti
ties. The treasury has been urging the
broad order issued today to relieve
freight congestion at the border ci
ties and accommodate both Mexicans
and American industrial firms in Mex
ico. The munitions embargo probably
will be maintained rigidly until the
differences between the United States
and the defacto government have been
adjusted.
MORE TROUBLE
AWAITING
CARRANZA
General Cantu in Lower California
Says He'll Attack First Invaders.
Washington, July 21. Inauguration
of a campaign by the de facto govern
ment of Mexico against General Can
tu, governor, of Lower California, was
reported today in advices transmitted
to the war department by army of
ficers on the border. The department
issued a statement saying it was re
ported that 4,000 men had been ordered
to Guayrnan to embark for Lower
California ports.
Governor Cantu has held aloof from
all factions in Mexico, issuing a for
mal neutrality proclamation and Low
er California has been virtually an in
dependent state since the war between
Carranza and Villa began.
When the de facto government ex
tended its control over portions of
Northern Mexico General Carranza
sent an officer to take over command
of the ,'territory. The governor (re
fused to surrender his authority and
put the official back on the line with
instruction to tell General Carranza
that when a stable government hac!
been established Lower. California
would poin it. He also served notice
that either Carranza or Villa forces
entering his territory -would be at
tacked. An army has been maintained
by Governor Cantu tlhrough the levy
of a real estate tax. He has had fre
quent dealings with American officials
over the water supply for the Imepria
Valley region of California, and - as
sured Secretary Lane, who called up
on him in this regard some time ago,
that Lower California was more pros
perous and peaceful than at any prev
ious time in its history.
Didn't Want to Leave Border.
San Antonio, Texas, July 21. Thpm
as Connors, enlisted man in Battery C,
the "College Battery," of the First Il
linois artillery, is one man who does
not want to go home. Application
made by relatives in Chicago resulted
in the issuance by the war department
of orders for his discharge. Connors,
when informed of his release from the
service vigorously protested to Gener
al Funston against his retirement,
pointing out that he has no dependent
relatives. The suspension of the or
der has been secured.
Steamship Sailings.
IiOndon,s,July 20. Sailed: Steamer
jPatmonia, Kew York
Glasgow, July 20. Sailed: Steamer
Sardinian, isoston,
Palermo, :July 19. Sailad: Steameft
- V tl I i "
Hanly Named
on First Ballot
INDIANA
MAN HEADS
TIONISTS.
PROHIB.I-
STEAM ROLLER VICTORY
Nomination Came on First Ballot, With
440 Votes, While William Sulzer,
Former Governor of New York Re
ceived 180 Landrith Chosen Vice
Presidential Candidate.
St. Paul, July 21. The prohibition
national convention which nas been
in session here since Wednesday
morning adjourned sine die at 3.30
today after nominating J. Frank Han
ly, former governor of Indiana, as
candidate for president of tho United
States and Dr. Landrith of Nashville,
Tenn., candidate for vice president.
885 2013 3923
Dr. Landrith's nomination was unanl
mous, for the other candidate had
withdrawn.
Mr. Hanly's nomination came on tre
first ballot had followed a number of
hurried conferences between advocates
of the candidacy of William Sulzer,
former governor of New York and
several brief demonstrations in the
latter's behalf which, however, were
offset by the outbursts of enthusiasm
that followed every mention of Mr.
Hanly's name.
The vote for Mr. Hanly was decis
ive. He received 440 votes, as agair.s
ISO for Mr. sulzer. Finlev C. Hen
drickson of Cumberland, Md., received
51 votes; James Gilbert Mason of New
Jersey 10; W. P. Ferguson of Penn
sylvania 4, Sumner W. Haynrs, In
diana 2, and Henry Ford, Detroit, 1.
A motion to make Mr. Hanly's nom
lnation unanimous was defeated when
objections were offered bv Eugene
Chafin of Arizona, and a score of other
delegates.
After the nomination of Dr. Land
rith, the assembly arose, sang the
Doxology and ended a six-hour ses
sion, marking the close of the three
day convention.
The (party platform, with but one
change in the draft presented by the
resolutions committee the insertion
of a plank declaring in favor of the
initiative, referendum, and recall was
adopted early in the day's session.
Mr. Sulzer, who had remained at
his hotel later characterized the con
vention's action as a "steam roller
victory," but added:
"As I was not a candidate for the
nomination, I am not disappointed
that it has gone to Mr. Hanly.
A resolution was adopted by the
convention but not incorporated in
the platform favoring freedom in the
practice of Christian Science and
chiropractic.
AMERICAN BUSINESS MEN
GOING TO ERAZIL
Sail From New York July 29 to Ad
vance Trade Relations.
Washington, July 21. The Ameri
can Committee of Businessmen who
will visit Brazil to advance the trade
relations as a result of resolutions
adopted at the Pan-American confer
ence was announced today by the In
ternational High Commission. The
members are Charles L. Chandler of
the Southern Railway. Chattanooga;
W. G. Downs, United States commer
cial attache at Rio Janeiro, Louis K.
Gray and Frederico Lage, both of New
York; Dr. Richard P. Stone, vice pres
ident of the American International
Corporation, New York; Thomas W.
Streeter, vice president of the Latin
American Corporation, and A. C.
Weigler of Chattanooga. Th commit
tee will sail from New York July 29
and be in Brazil from Aug. 15 to Sept.
12.
Jesuit Priest Sentenced by Germans.
Amsterdam, July 21, via London, 11
p. m.The sentence of a Jesuit priest,
who-was condemned to die by the Ger
man authorities in Belgium on ac
count of his connection with the
newspaper Libre Belgkiue, says the
correspondent of the Tyd Dubar, has
been commuted to twelve years at
hard labor and deportation to Ger
many. The secret publication of the
Libre Belgicrue. the correspondent
adds, continues . despite German ef-
forts-to disccyerytheitorg-acjrlipubr
Condensed Telegrams
Emperor Francis Joseph of Austria
Is gravely ill.
John D. Rockefeller's fortune
has
passed the billion dollar mark.
William Charles Wynn, fourth Bar
on Newborough, is dead at London.
Eugene McKeever, 8, of Staten Is
land, was drowned in Staten Island
Sound.
Officials of the Union Fuel Gas Co.,
report that oil has been struck in West
Virginia.
Erman J. Ridgway, who has been ed'
itor-in-chief of the Butterick publish
ing, retired.
K. H. Keach, town marshal of Daw
son Springs, y., was shot and killed in
a pistol duel.
E. J. Pearson, vice-president of
the New Haven, has been elected a
director of the road. "
Lieut.-Gen Ichonosuko Oka, Minis
ter of War in the Okuma Cabinet in
1914-13-16, is dead at Tokio.
Hundreds of man-eating sharks, 12
to 14 feet long, were sighter a few
miles off the Virginia coast-
Representative John J. Fitzgerald
of New York, announced that he would
be a candidate of re-election.
The Girard Trust Co., of Philadel
phia, has been incorporated in Illi
nois with a capital of $2,500,000.
The Consolidated Mining & Refining
Co., at Dover, Del., has been mcorp
orated with a capital of , 500, 000.
Two hundred fishermen are believed
to have lost their lives in a monsoon
off the coast of Colombo, Ceylon.
Several hundred employes of the
Carborundum Co., who have been on
strike since July 13, returned to work,
Colin M. Selph, of St. Louis, wa
elected president of the National As
sociation of Postmasters at Washing
ton.
A favorable report on the adminis
tration shipping bill has been submit
ted by the Senate Commerce Com
mittee. Major Sir Foster Hugh Egerton
Cunliffe, military historian, has been
killed while fighting at the front in
France.
Gold amounting over $4,000,000 was
depositel in the United States mint at
Philadelphia for the account of J. P.
Morgan & Co.
The bank at Alpha, 'Mich., near Es
canaba, was robbed of $25,OC0 by two
men, who locked the cashier in the
vault and escaped.
Foyr deaths among 16,000 men the
past 4 weeks of service at McAllen,
Texas Is the mortality record of the
New York division.
F. W. Weltzel, receiver of the first
National Bank, of London, Ky., was
arrested, charged with emzezzling
funds of the institution.
Stockholders of the Virginia Railway
& Power Co., have approved an in
crease in preferred stock of the com
pany from $8,0-00,000 to $9,000,000.
Robert H. Stroud, sentenced to be
handged for killing a guard in the
Leavenworth Federal Penitentiary,
was reprieved by application for a new
trial.
Senator Poindexter, of Washington,
has offered in the Senate an amend
ment which hew will ask to have in
corporated the Senate committee on
finance.
An effort to mediate the situation
which threatens a strike of trolley
men at Yonkers. N. Y., tonight will be
made by the Yonkers Chamber of
Commerce.
The construction plana of the Beth
lehem Steel Corporation call for the
erection of four new blast furnaces at
Sparrows Point, four at Steelton and
four at Bethlehem.
Another trolley car of the local trac
tion company at Wilkes-Barre, Pa.,
was blown up by dynamite, making
the second attempt in 2 days to kill
strikebreaking crews.
Wilson C. Ashbridge, the murderer,
who broke jail last Monday night and
was recaptured in Chester, Pa., is at
tempting to evade the electric chair
by means of a hunger strike.
The Western Union Telegraph Co.,
announced the interruption of the
cable between Teneriffe and Senegal,
messages will be forwarded via Bres'
Dakar without change in rate.
Further hearing on legislation to
regulate the use of waters of Niagara
Falls for power purposes, to begin
August 1, were decided upon by the
House Foreign Affairs Committee.
The steamer Comus of the Southern
Pacific company collided with a barge
of the Consolidated Coal company off
Sea Girt. Seven members of the
barge's crew wr takn aboard the
Comus.
Mrs. James Fischer was instantly
killed by falling four stories from a
window of her home at No. 450 East
147th Street. More than a score of
children playing in the vacant lot ad
Joining witnessed the accident.
The Hughes ' Democratic voters"
league of New York, a non-stock corp
oration, filed articles at Albany. It
is formed to persuade voters with
Democratic leanings in The Bronx
"and elsewhere" to vote for Hughes.
Herman Bernstein, new editor of
The American Hebrew, in yesterday's
issue of the Jewish national weekly
pleads for unity upon the ipart of the
Hebrew race for the alleviation of
suffering' In the belligerent countries.
The HolIanoT-Amerlcan Line steam
ship Noordam sailed for New York.
On board are 50 Belgian women ar.fl
children who are being sent to Join
relatives in the United States.
Business Get Together In South
America.
Buenos Aires, Argentine, July 21.
A conference was held here yesterday
to consider a project for economic
rapprochement among South Ameri
can countries. " It was attended by
Frederick J. Stimson, the American
ambassador; Ruy Barbosa, the Bra
zilian minister: the Argentine foreign
minislerand j?seywair fawner z cabinet
SENATE 71 TO 8
Overwhelming Vote for
Country's
BITTER FIGHT IN HOUSE IS ANTICIPATED
Two Democrats and Six Republicans Against the $315,000,
000 Appropriation, Calling for 157 Vessels, Including 16
Capital Fighting Ships, in Next Three Years $3,500,
000 for Aviation Navy Yards to be Enlarged.
Washington, July 21. The naval
appropriation with a three year build
ing programme including the immedi
ate construction of four dreadnaughts,
four great battle cruisers and 08 other
craft, passed the senate late today by
a vote of 71 to 8. it carries iio,Jo,
843, or $45,857,588 more than the total
as the measure passed the house.
Many proposals to curtail the enorm
ous building increases written iuto the
measure by the senate naval commit
tee were defeated overwhelmingly and
as soon as final passage was announced
the senate voted to insist on its
amendments and send the bill at once
to conference.
Long Struggle Expected in House.
The house is expected to insist on its
building program, and a long struggle
is in prospect before agreement is
reached.
Two democrats. Senators Thomas
and Vardaman, and six republicans,
Senators Clapp, Curtis, Gronna, La
Follette, Norris and Works, voted
against the bill which has had the
support of leaders of both parties
during the week of debate that pre
ceded passage.
A seven hour speech by Senator La
Follette against the measure and a
clash between Senators Reed and Oliv
er over the proposal to print as a
public document the Bethlehem Steel
Company's arguments against a gov
ernment armor plate plant delayed the
final vote. The Bethlehem s argu
ments were ordered printed by unani
mous consent during Senator Reed's
absence from the senate chamber. On
his return he vainly sought reconsid
eration .charging that Senator Oliver
as a nowner of steel stock, naa voted
money into his own pocket by sup
porting the proposal.
Senators Tlllmann, Swanson and
Lodge were appointed conferees on the
bill. The House conferees will be
chosen Tuesday.
157 Vessels in Three Years,
Construction of 157 vessels, Including
sixteen, capital fighting ships, within
three years at an estimated cost of
$588,180,576 is contemplated in the sen
ate program, the largest ever proposed
in congress. Of the total appropria
tions in the bill $110,726,160 is for uh
first year's building expenditures.
As it passed the house, the measure
made no provision for a continuing
building program and authorized only
PLAYING PARTY POLITICS
WITH CHILD LABOR
Senator Hardwick Scored Senate Re
publicans During Naval Debate.
Washington, July 21. The Child
Labor bill which President Wilson is
urging for passage before adjournment
of congress got into the naval bill
debate in the senate today when Sen
ator Hardwick of Georgia charged that
it evidently was the purpose of the re
publicans of the senate "to play party
politics with this great measure." He
called attention to republican leader
Gallinger's statement that republican
senators were eager for its early pass
age. "I had no such purpose," Senator
Gallinger declared. "I made the state
ment because the people of the coun
try want the bill passed."
Senator Hardwick declared tho
measure was unconstitutional and re
called that Senator Gallinger had said
so last February. Jlr. Gallinger re
plied he still had doubt about its con
stitutionality but was willing to vote
for it and leave the question to the
courts.
FRENCH IMPORTATION LIMITED.
List of Prohibited Articles Contained
in Decree Issued Friday.
Paris, July 21, 5.10 p. m. The gov
ernment today issued another decree
prohibiting the further importation ex
cept for government purposes of cer
tain foreign products. Prominent in
the list of prohibited articles are
platinum, iron, steel, pure copper,
lead, tin, zinc, nickel, mercury, anti
mony and unmentioned minerals and
also a great variety of iron and steel,
including tool steel, steel rails, wire,
pig iron, hoops, cables, railroad, street
car or waterwheels, hubs, tires, axles
and many sorts of wood and chemicals.
The decree permits the taking of ship
ments made before July 18, the day the
president issued the decree.
Aviator Harmon's Wife Thrown From
Horse.
Greenwich, Com., July 21. Mrs.
Clifford B. Harmon, daughter of Com
modore B. C Benedict, was thrown
from her horse while riding on Indian
Field road today, when her mount took
fright at a passing train. She suffered
cuts and bruises about the body but
the extent of her injuries has not been
determined. She is the wife of the av
iator. Whitman Against Preparedness Repeal
Albany, N. Y., July 21. Governor
Whitman today declined to call a
special session of the legislature to
consider the repeal of five preparedness
measures passed during the last ses
sion. He made this announcement
at the conclusion of a hearing at which
a dozen men and women representa
tives of societies quaker and labor or
ganizations had requested the extra
session.'
Dr. Strong on the Border.
Field Headquarters in Mexico, via
wireless to Columbus, N. M., July 21.
Robert Bacon, formerly ambassador
to France, and Dr. R. P. Strong of the
Harvard Medical School, reached here
today. They are going over the Amer
ican lines of communication to study
conditions regarding soldiers in the
field and instructions have been is ¬
sued that they be afforded every op
portunity to make a thorough investi-
FOR NAVAL BILL
Largest Programme in
History
72 ships, including five battle cruisers
an dno dreadnaughts.
Sure of Six Big Ships at Once.
Administration leaders regard it as
practically certain that in the confer
ences between the two houses at least
four battle cruisers and two dread
naughts to bo contracted for at once'
will be agreed upon.
Miscellaneous appropriations carried
in the bill include $11,000,000 for gov- .
ernment armor plate plants; $19,485,500 :
to provide ammunition for ships to be ,
built in the next two years; $3,300,000
for batteries for merchant auxiliaries ,
($1,650,000 available at once;) $3,5500,-.
000 for aviation; $1,500,000 for naval
experimental and research laboratory;
$1,411,000 for government projectile
plant; $1,270,00 for arming and equip
ping the naval militia; $10,335,915 for
maintenance and enlargement of pub
lic stations, navy yards and docks;
$50,226,912 for pay cf the navy.
Other important features of the
measure would provide for:
Increasing the enlisted personnel of
tho navy from 54,000 to 74,000 and of
the marine corps from 9,000 to 14,500. :
Authorizing the president in time of
listed strength of the navy to 87,000
national emergency to increase the en
and the marine corps to 17,400 men.
Enlargement of Navy Yards.
Enlargement of navy yards, with
equipment for construction of capital
ships and extension of government dry
clocks for accommodation of largest
battleships.
Reorganization o fthe naval militia (
on a similar basis with the regoranized ;
national guard. '
Organization of marine reserve, and
marine corps.
Incorporation of coast guard sendee
with the navy in time of war.
Two ne wcutters for coast guard.
Twenty per cent, bonus to contrac
tors for construction of war craft with
contract time limits, and
Increase of aviation stations and ad
dition to facilities for work of this
service.
The bill passed the house June 2,
and was reported to the senate by the
naval affairs committee June 30 after
conferences had been held with Presi
dent Wilson, Secretary Daniels and
navy department officials. Increases
in the building program followed in
large measure the recommendation of
the General Board of the Navy. ,
MARSHALL GETS RIGHT
TO REGISTER APPEAL
Federal Attorney May Put His Case
Before Supreme Court.
New York, July 21. Federal Dis
trict Attorney H. Snowden Marshall
was todny granted by Judge Hand the
opportunity of appealing to the United
States supreme court from Judge
Hand's recent decision denying the
writ of habeas corpus the attorney is
sued to prevent his removal to Wash
ington to answer charges of contempt
before the house of representatives. 1
Judge Hand ruled that the appeal ,
would have to be taken before Aug. i
15. Meantime, District Attorney Mar-!
shall is taken from the custody of the j
sergeant at arms of the house and I
placed in the custody of tho local i
court. If the supreme court does not I
return a decision before Dec. 1 next!
the district attorney will be returned i
to the custody of the sergeant at j
arms for removal to Washington.
The stipulation that the appeal must
be made on or before August 15 .was ;
included in Jude Hand's order at the;
suggestion of Martin W. Littleton, the'
attorney representing the house. He'
said that the house is not expected to;
adjourn until after that date and that;
by having the appeal made before
adjournment tne question couia not do
later raised that the adjournment au-'
tomatically closed the case. j
SECRET SERVICE AGENTS
BRING WILD REPORTS
Tell Persnmg I nat vina, witn ia,uuv
is Preparing Aattack.
Washington, July 21. Rumors that
Francisco Villa, with a force of 18,000 1
is preparing to attack Torreon were,
forwarded to the War department to-j
day by General Funston. He said the'
story had been brought to General
Pershing by "secret service agents."'
Officials were inclined to give it lit
tle credence. ;
Carranza Chief Ordered to Mexico.
City.
Washington, July 21. General Cal-.
lea, .diiuiM unnwnj .iuci in uuuia
state, has been ordered to Mexico City
according to messages to the war de
partment today from Colonel Sage at
Nogales. There appears to be some
doubt that he will return to the bor- :
der section, the mesage adds, although
the purpose of his trip to the capital
is not given. !
German Civilians to Help in Harvest.
The Hague, July 21, via London,!
July 22, 12.0S a. m. The commander
of the 20th German army corps has,
ordered the mobilization of all civ-j
ilians to aid in harvesting the crops.
They will be paid for their work atj
the local rates of hire. Exemption'
from work will only be granted oni
a doctor's certificate. Persons r-'
fusing to comply with the mobilization
order are punishable with a maximum
sentence of a year's imprisonment and
e fine of marks.
Maneuvering Fleet in at Navoort.
Newport, R. I., July 21. The squa
ron .of nine battleships carrying r
val militiamen of New York, Pennf
vania, New Jersey, Connecticut, Mf
achusetts and Maine, put in here
night after a week of practice r
euvres off Block Island. The
w fiatSon.
jnd, wiUepejjtjhere. j, s,.
