BRING IN YOUR WANT
AD COPY, BEFORE 6 P. M.
-arly Delivery of Sunday Want Ads In
sures Correct Classification
fUcbttumd STimcr. ?
ALL SORTS OF ADS FOR
ALL SORTS OF PEOPLE
See Times-Dispatch Want Pages for a
Service of Unequalled Yalue
6th YEAR
volume; nn
m m 1jk It 203
RICHMOND, VA, SATURDAY, JULY 22, 1916.?TWELVE PAGES
?RAIN.
PRICE, TWO CENTS.
.ULL IN INTENSITY
OF IOINT ATT?
ON Sdlf FRONT
Comparative Calm Prevails
Along Anglo-French
Lines*
"EMPORARY GERMAN GAIN
ON LEIPZIG SALIENT
^ater Driven Out From British
Trenches Which They
Had Occupied.
?kvkrk floods on dmkhtkk
'r?>vent Any Further Advance Into
fiallda From Soutli and Ka*>t
for Time Heine.
Th? Intensity of the British :m<!
"rerseh attack? against th? Oerman
font north and south of the Somme
tlv?r, In Northern France, appears to
iav? lessened creatly, according to te
atest nfflrla'. statements. London de
?lar?s a lull has ?*t In on the British
'ront, and th? J*.'iris ??!!! ial statement
>f Friday niuht mentlors no .'ictiv'tv
ilontr the whole front from north of
h?> Somme to Switzerland
In the enlient of die I.eipzic redotiht
h? German? entered the 1':: c ?; held by
lor.'ral Hatg's for< e.'. 1 it were ejected
r*Jt-?tiu?ntly. I-oridon afser'f
I Th? Anglo-French attacks n^rth and
I'oyth of the Somme on Thursday were
I'rultle????. acordlvK t>? Berlin. except on
It two-mile front Kouth of Hsirdcrourt,
[jrh^re the Herman? retired from first
l:o Mrond-Une trenches, about e';0 kllo
|n?t?rs !n the r< -T- The at' t k. Ber
lin a.'ferts, wa? pre eded by a violent
lirtillery fire on a fr^nt of more than
?twenty.seven ml!':?, arid was partic!
Ir>n?d in by more than 1'no.r*r'0 mon.
I Nerth of I.r< Basse an attack on Wed
l-.*!'i.iy hv the Bridlsh In the region
I f Fromelles resulted disastrously for
Jhem. Berlin says, the British losir.p
li-:? 'han 2,000 met lied and nearly
lv"' prisoners
MDVANCES INTO (iAI.ICIA
I iiv ki.oous
I f ods on the Dniest* i prevented any
I'urther advance into ?; licia from the
louth and oast for the time being, and
Ihe Russians are driving 'he Austro
|>erman forre? toward the Northern
Italician border, below Vladimlr
li'olynski. Both Berliti and Vienna
?.dtnit the-retirement of part of Gen
Irril von Linslngen'i !' ?roes fr< m the
Iepion of the confluence of the St ?
Ind Llpa River north
If TirAdy.
I I'etrograd asserts retirement of
Ihe Austro-Gern ?n forces w:is tlie re
lult of an impetuous atta k lit which
Inore than 1,600 prisoners were taken
Iterlin and Vienna say the withdrawal
Iras made in the ? xpei tation ..f an en
veloping movement 1* ddition t ?
Rapturing Gumuskhaneh, forty miles
lorthwest <->f Balburt, the Russian
trmies In Turkish Armet I t aro :'.d
fanclng In other ?< ctors
I Artillery fighting appears to occupy
Ihe opposing forces ":i the Austro
Italian front generally Rome, ),..w
lvf-r, reports the capture <?( further
?reaches on Monte Maia ?
I Special dispatches from Copenhagen
!?-. i.r.r.d^n report the capture by a 1r
lian warship of the American sailing
lessel Prlns Valdemar. bound from an
American port for Sweden, with a
largo of oil. The British steamers
? zer and Grangemoor, both vessels of
lomewhat more than 3,000 tons, are
leported sunk. Vienna announces that
Iwo submarines. f>ne of theni Italian,
lave been destroyed in the Northern
Idrlatlc by Austrian torpedo craft.
?ttack by nniTisii
I RESULTS IX HEAVY I.OSS
I BERLIN, July 21 (via London).?An
?ttack by British forces against ihe
lermans at Fromelles, north of La
Basse*. on Wednesday resulted in the
liss by the attackers <>f more than 2,000
lien killed and nearly 500 men taken
Prisoner, according to a statement
liven out by the War Oflice to-day.
I The statement admits that the rjer
lan line alone a front of about three
lilometers (two miles) south of Harde
liurt was driven from its first trenches
|ito Its second trenches, 800 meters in
?ie rear. Enemy forces, the statement
lys, penetrated into the German
lillent at the wood "f Vermandovillers.
ItThe statement reads:
? "An attack by the English in the re
lion of Fromelles on Wednesday was
l<ecuted, we establish, by two strong
?visions. The brave Bavarian divl
|on, before whose front the attack
liok place, counted on the German
l-ont more than 2.000 enemy killed,
lid brought in hitherto 171 prisoners,
? eluding ten oilicers and sixteen ma
lint guns.
? "On both sides <>f the Somme the
liemy yesterday, as was expected, pre
lircd to deliver a main blow, but It
? lied. After the strongest lire prcpar
? lon over a front of about forty kilo
?eters (about twenty-seven miles) at
Ick9 were made from south of Po
Bercs to west of Vermandovillers.
?ora than seventeen divisions, with
lore than 700,000 men, participated in
? e attacks.
B"T!io result of the enemy's attack
? that the first line of the German dIv 1 -
? , along a front of three kilometers
? uth of Hardee nirt was pressed back
Bom Us foremost trenches Into :!?<? '
?xt trenches, lying sno meters behind, !
? d enemy divisions penetrated Into the
? Kent of the little wood of Vermando
lllcrs.
?On the entire remaining front the
Bid onsets broke to pieces against
Be jloath-defylnfr loyalty of our I
Bjops, with extraordinary losses for
Be enemy. Up to the present seven -
B- (Continued on Second Tage.)
11,60?NORFOLK AND RETURN?$1.50
To-Morrow Via N. & XV. Ry.
rickMB good'on 8:10 and 9 o'clock trains.
Sing Ho! Hearties,
for Shipper Swanson
Secretary oj Navy Daniels
Would Give Junior Senator
Rank of Commodore.
Having stood bv in the foreharbor.
belaying pin in hand, ready to smite
on Die bean any mutiny that should
arise to threaten the administration's
naval bill, and having seen the meas
ure warp safely through tho United
States .Senate with only eight Opposing
votes. Secretary of the Navy Daniels
stole off to Richmond, where he rested
last night under the hospitable roof of
Herbert W. Jackson, president of the
Virginia Trust Company.
"It s the greatest naval hill and the
largest ever passed by this or any other
nation any time," admitted ?he secre
tary last night.
?Does it carry everything you
wa n ted'!"
'Well. I won't go ay far as that, but
it has most of the things we wanted."
replied Mr. Daniels. So bill is per
fect?not even this one. I have every
reason to hope that the conferees will
preserve the bill practically in the
shape in which It passed the Seil.ite."
"And while I am on the subject," con
tinual the secretary. "I want to say
something about Senator Claude A.
Swanson. of Virginia. His management
of the bill in the Senate wis ?n,rrb.
I-or a mere landlubber, hr displayed a
r '-rr.ir,I 'knowledge <>? tid's an '
currents and sunken mines. The govl
ernment ought to give him a naw
ti:le commodore, at least."
MARSHALL TO APPEAL
.Ju?l?.c llnml Mut Him Opportunity
of 'Ink I tin < n.sr to I nited States
."upreme Court.
NKW YORK. July 21. ?Federal Dis
trict Attorney ii. Snowden Marshall
was to-day granted by Judge Hand th?
opportunity r.f appealing to the United
States .Supreme Court from Judge
Hand's recent decision, denying the
writ of habeas corpus the attornev
sued out to prevent his removal to
Washington to answer charges of ?on
tempt before the H use of Representa
tives.
Judge Hand ruled that the appeal
would ha v.- to be taken before Au
'!!1,5t l: Meanwhile. Mr. Marshall 13
t..*en from the custody of the serpeani
?tt-arms of the House and placed in the
custody of the local court. He was re
leased on hi.-- own reco nizance. If the
i ? npreme Court does not return a r!i?.
j clston before December 1 r.ext, the dis
trict attorney will be returned to ?he
custody of serjeant-at-arms for
removal to Washington.
TO MEET NEXT AT ATLANTA
International s? i iiII( K,lt;lr?
< lulu. I nd* \ it nun I ( onvention
?t < iiK'jtiiKi(I.
CI.Vfl.V.VA TI. OHIO.. July _M ?At
lanta. ? W ?,> selected hs the conven.
:i ' ::i -?'??>'. l'?K. of the Interna
'"r 1 Assoi ' r,.-?n Of Rotary Clubs
late t-i-day by the new and re
t:ri!>jr officers, empowered to make the
S.-leet ion
? R. l'erry. of Chicago, was re
??Ifcted secretary.
1'htlip I Kell.tr. of Chicago, was re
chosen managing- editor of the po.
tarian, official or~-,r. r,f t}l? Rotary
cluos. and Frank R. Jennings, also of
'"hicago. was again selected as .adver
tising manager
This concluded the work of the in
ternational convention, which had been
.n ser-slon here since last Monday.
MISLED BY LIFEBOAT
( re\% of Vnnirglnn Freighter Pioliably
Thought Thjtt of the Hnnios
n Submarine.
NEW YORK, July 21.?Survivors of
the crew of the American steamship
Ramos, which foundered in a gale Julv
1.1. about son miles north of Watling
Island, say that the Norwegian freight
er Krrier may have mistaken their
lifeboat for a submarine. They ad
vanced this theory after reading that
the crew <?f the Terrier, upon arrival
at folon, reported having sighted a
submarine near Wa t line Island.
? ?fibers of the Ramos, in their report
to the owners, have declared that a
steamship passed close to their life
boats July 1.1 and steered away in .a
zigzag course, as if she had mistaken
the lifeboat for a submarine.
IN AID OF STARVING POLES
President Sends Personal Mcsmiikc to
Ktiropenn Killers Urging Co-Opera
tion in (Jetting Supplies to Tliem.
WASHINGTON. July 21.?President
A\ ilson to-day sent personal niessatres
to European rulers urging their co
operation in getting food supplies from
the United States to the starving peo
ple of Poland. Previous efforts in the
same direction, directed through the
State Department to the Foreign Of
fices of the countries involved, have
met with failure. The President de
sires that France. Great Britain and
Russia allow the passage of the food
stuffs and that Germany and Austria
Hungary guarantee that the food be
gUen only to the civilian population.
FEWER PARALYSIS CASES
One Viiro Death Than Day llefore
Reported, However. In \>w
Plague.
NI'.W YORK, July 21.?A further de
crease in the number of new cases
and a slight increase in tho number
of deaths was shown to-day in the
health department's bulletin on tlie
epidemic of infantile paralysis. Dur
ing tho last twenty-four hours thir
ty-two children died of tho disease in
the greater city and eighty new cases
were reported. This compared favor
ably with yesterday's report, which
showed fatalities numbering thirty-one
and ^?ew cases 119. Since tho begin
ning of the plague, June 2fi, there have
bcon 2,626 cases and 119 deaths.
Provides for Immediate Con
struction of Eight First
Line Ships.
, CARRIES SUM OF $315,826,343
I H?use ExPectcd to Insist on Its
rogram, and Long Struggle
Is in Prospect.
naval
, ? ? t , (l three-year building pro
gram. Including the ,mmedfal# CQn.
struction or four Dreadnoughts, four
sroat battle cruiser, nfty-elsht other
W.M3. or 03 *313
mous butldlU 'in. Cn?r'
the measure t,v t),<- V U<?" 'nt?
imittee were d'efe.redv* kT' C?'n"
, a? soon as ZZTlTVf
; no u need the Sonai, ... ,
Us amendments and ^Vi^'biTl at
' 'V-f? Th, Mouse Is ex
P te 1 to insist upon its building pro
wssaw'55
i yir] v? ...i. ' * ^nators Phoma.s
^ardain.in. and .cjx p.,....,, ,
>i>a. pr.crt?d *'*k
NWA.VSOV ( (?\r.,?AT, ,.atkm
ov "AVI)M.\<. OF nu.L
?^enntor ^wanson r>r \*
l.rpr, ?,. , r" ?4 Virginia, has
-en in harp* of ,h<? bm
Potato- r;,rpor,M b-v tl'* committee.
<"POn the Bo..r, an.i the hard ,vork or
???" ;?v'rr ,w",he
,.lt? 00,1 ?? 'ho vote was
Ihout " n"mber ?f s>na??? crowded
?o th nnSOn an" ^""^"lated him
duoteJ ,1 , "ner i!1 whloh h* had con
The h n* * Parliamentary fipht.
r?Ch0'' laM *?age toward
nonen^c r !?' *?nat? 'o.day, with op
r*ndv wT-h'^n C,b"n',i,i:r r>rn?rra:51
redul-t! ,? A ?* ani*n,1?">nts for
over V ''"mocraiJc Senators, how
? , '' ^ !" '""'"fident fro;n the start the
administration program would prevail
; v?ii.?Ven"hn,,r s^e, h >'>? Senator La
i \ IS atra]nf;l ",f- measure, and a
nv/r thV n"" S*n*l?r* K?"d ?"d Oliver
? " - Proposal to print as a public
document the Bethlehem Stee| cl
:Pany.fi argument a,nin? , BOV?r?
I?nai "cla-" *?
rt*.i \mf\t
ntivrr.n
, Senator Penrose, during Mr. Reed's
absence from the chamber. Co, ,he
unanimous consent of ,h* ^,,aie to
. ... as a P'ib!ic document the Reth
hem . tne] Pompany's published aren
m* ts p rains? a xovr-rnine-nt
or
? - ? ? ' iirni .irlTlC"
Plate plant When Senator Reed r,.
turnerl and learned of it. he denounced
?ie ar.ion as a "shameless proposition
*n '"""rac-e," and declared the com
!e;'di.^Statfm0,US WC,e false anrl nii-c
Senator Oliver challenced y.r Reed
to show the statements he referred to
nie Senator from Pennsylvania"
. enator Reed replied, "had the cool as.
suran-e. ?f,er admitting that he oU-ned
steel stork, to stand up h*re and at
tempt w vote money into his own
pocket by support inc a hill which
"ould hejp Bethlehem Steel Com
pany If the Senator were a Iudtre he
would not he permitted to vote on thl*
JSSU^ "
Senator silver denounced that state
ment. asserting that Senator Reed was
attemptins to avoid his challenge.
? Mv" continued Senator Reed
that the Senator from Pennsylvania
?n 'his floor admitted he owned a lartre
amount of s,eei stock, and that this
stock was in a concern that was the
parent company of a concern enpaced
In the manufacture of armor plate.
f'ifAit(;rs oi.ivkh worm
m:.\K.I'IT uv STKKI, PROFITS
"The senator knows that whatever
mipbt defeat the construction of a
P"vei riment armor^late plant will in
creise the ,.ri<e and profits for private
armor plants; that rh.. profits win be
distributed among its stockholders and
that some of those profits will emit n
musical jincie in the pockets of the
distinguished Senator fro,? Penn.
sylvania."
Senatot <;.-illinper suggested that
senator Reod/was overstepPjnR a
??te rule, and Vice-President Marshall
?ilso intervene.I.
Senator Reed then read from the
Record another passage between him'
subieetnd ?liVer r'n ,h<
subject, when Senator Oliver told the
Senate he owned I'nifed States st.-ei
stock valued at $117,non.
Senator Penrose finally withdrew his
request for publication of the Bethle
hem ste.l Company documents, and
said he would not attempt to hold the
Senate to its unanimous agreement.
Senators Tillman. Swanson and Lodtre
w?-ro appointed conferees o? ,he bill
Ihe House conferees will be chosen on
w,mS<?!ly;?i!',K, ,',n,,y KCssio?? probably
".II be held thereafter by the confer,
once committee. 1 r
Construction of i vessels, includ
Ing .sixteen capital fighting
of Jr S 8 ISO r - fiCUi' 3 Ht a" ?ost'
of $. SS.1S0..>.?. is contemplated in the
Sena o program, the largest ever pro!
posed i? Congress. (,f tll0 lota, P'?
propriatlons in the bill. 51 10,726 1 CO* is
tnrei yeUP"" :,u,Mln" *
vo Paovisiov iiv iioi sf
for covri.xuixu program
As it passed the House the measure
made no provision for a continuing
?ardr,!tm' Administration leaders re!
Kard it as practically certain that in
the conference between the two houses
at least four battle cruisers and two
readnoughts to bo contracted for at
once will be agreod upon. An analysis
(Contlnuod on Third Pag^o
i COMMISSION PLAN
I ACCEPTABLE TO U.S.
Announcement of Course to Be
Followed in Mexican Parleys
May Be Made To-Day.
;
GOSSIP AS TO MEMBERSHIP
Wilson Hopes to Extend Outline
of Subjects for Discussion as
Proposed by Carranza.
( WASHINGTON, July Jl.?Official an
; nounccment of the course to l>e fol
j lowed In seeking a peaceful solution
i of the Mexican border problems prob
' ably will be made either to-morrow or
early next week
I It appeared certain to-night that the
. Washington government was prepared
to accept the commission plan proposed
by General Carranza in his note of
, July 11, made public yesterday in
, Mexico City, but there are indications
. that President Wilson would prefer a
more far-reaching discussion than this
I communication.
Acting .Secretary folk conferred
; again to-day with Lliseo Arredondo,
| General t"arranza's ambassador, but
I the conferees had no announcement to
make. Apparently, acceptance of the
commission plan is awaiting 'Jeneral
| C'arranza's reply to amendments pro
posed by the Washi:.vtou government
i to his suggestion, the nature <>f which
has not l>een revealed
Mr. 1'olk Is keepii.p both President
| Wilson and Secretary Lansing, now
| absent on vacation, advised of each
I step taken.
| The note of July 11. as published in
Mexico City, would limit the proposed
; commission to discussion of three spe
| cific points: withdrawal of American
troops from Mexico; arrangements of a
reciprocal agreement, tinder which the
troops of either government might
; cross the border in pursuit of bandits,
and investigation of the bandit raids
ori American towns to determine what
interests promoted them in an effort to
force intervention.
EFFORT TO WIDK.V M OPE
OF COMMISSION'S ACTIVITIES
Yhere have been intimations that
President Wilson Imped much greater
results could be accomplished toward
restoration of tranquillity and stable
government in Mexico than this limited
field would permit. Kor that reason
it was inferred that the present effort
of Mr. Polk probably was directed to
ward widening the scope of the com
mission's activities, and that General
? Carranza's ? answer on this suggestion
must be received before a final decision
( could be reached.
(iossip as to the probable American
! membership of the commission indi
cated that men of hizh position and
ability, whose names are kn nvn inter
nationally, would be elected to repre
: sent the United States, in order to
assure General Carranza that the best
thouuht of the nation would be given
to the task.
In some quarters it was reported
to-night that Chief Justice White.
Major-General (ioethals and Frederick
Lehmann. former Solicitor-General, and
la member of the a R c Mediation
i Conference at Niagara Falls, had been
| considered
j The name of Justice Rrandels also
| was mentioned
It is certain that Luis Cabrera, of the
Mexican Foreign Office. will head the
! commission Mentioned as his prob
lable associates are men of creat promi
nence in Mexican economic life.
The Mexican outline of subjects to
be discussed by the commissioners . on
tains no new proposal, except that the
oriein of the border raids :>e investi
gated.
SINISTER IXFI.l'ENCRS
RELIEVED AT U'Oltlv |
Secretary Lansing and other officials I
t have made no secret of their belief j
that sinister influences have been strlv-|
ing persistently to embroil the two|
nations in war. President WiPon has1
repeatedly referred to these Influences'
'in public utterances, *nvi t>ie:-e is no
? renson to believe that ?i># 1'niod States
j would not welcome an investigation of;
: (??(? origin of the border :a>ds.
The elimination of suspicion on (Jen-j
| eral Carran/a's part, throusrh the ef- ,
j forts of European and Latin-American
| diplomats In Mexico City, leaves the
?way open, administration officials be
! lieve, (o give material aid to the de
1 facto government in meeting its trou-'
j blejoine domestic problems.
I ? State Department officials h"> s to
avoid limiting the commissioners, in I
order that every chance will be offered
for the evolution of a constructive plan
of action to bp shared by the two gov
ernments, and which will have the re
habituation of Mexico from the inside'
as its object.
I'. S. May Not Intervene.
WASHINGTON. July 21.? Secretary !
Wilson, of the Department of !..;<bor, to- j
flay received information that tl.e em- j
plovers and employees involved In the j
garment workers' strike in New York
City were near i ng an agreement, and
thi.t it n<igl't not be necessary for the
Federal government to intervene. The
i question . w..s discussed hi iefly at to-i
? lay's Cabinet meeting.
: Italians Are Lauded
Sir A. Conan Doyle
I The dlMlngiil.slied ItriIIstli author, I
I Sir A. Conn n l>o>le, writing from
I Italy, pral.M's In the hlglicM terma~ j
the fiKhtiiiK men of that country,
i lie declared that no urtuy In the
vtorld could linve mnde n braver
attempt to advance under condl- i
lion* of extraordinary difficulty, j
Three thouxaiid cqunre kltometern of j
the enemy's territory, lie nays,
alreaily In In Ital.v'M iio.xmcnnIoii. The
article by Mr Coiiuii Iioyle will ap
pear in nest Sunday's Immiic of The
Tlmea-DlapatcJi.
Submarine Freighter at Do:k in Baltimore
Loading tin; Pcutschlund at her berth in Baltimore. .Note the cranes
erected <?n her deck. The submarine lias received her finishing touches
and her coat of battleship gray. She lies at her berth protected on all
sides, safeguarded against injury. To her stern is the freight house, to
one side a wluirf, and to the other side lies a river freighter, ller bow is
hidden by a heavy scow.
Will Take 2,183 Hermits to Bring
Commands to Full War
Strength.
HKGIMKXTS IX GREATEST NEED
Were Accepted on Peace Basis, and
Must Now Nearly Double Their Kn
itted Strength?Blues Also Lack
Meii for Full Squadron.
To hring all the Virginia military
< rea t. 12a t ions now under arms up to
full war strength. 2.1S.1 mm will be
required. according to the schedule re
ceived yesterday from the Eastern De
partment by Major A. H Percy. of
I-yn< hbure. senior officer of the re
? 'ruititic detail now waiting orders at
Stuart. It 1.- thought that di
rections to ro ?. their stations' will
r. .u h the recruiting officers almost im
mediately.
I he most serious deficiency in men
I '?c iu the First and Second Regiments,
now on the Mexican border. Kadi of
these organizations is :-hort more than j
900 men of having full war strength.
When mustered into the Federal ser
vice. she two regiments were just about
at peace strength.
The deficiencies among State mili- \
tary bodies are divided up as follows:
First Regiment, PIT; Second Reginjent.
j 9S5; First Squadron. Cavalry, 121; Bat
tery O, Field Artillery. S3; First Bat
talion, Field Artillery, 11>, First Com
pany. Signal Corps. 3; Field Hospital.
The forty members of the Fourth
Regiment Intrusted with recruiting for
the other State militia companies have
the difllcult task of filling these vacan
cies in the shortest possible time,
.vow si.vTV-six OFFirrcns
AMI t.020 HEX at CA1II' STI AItT
< amp Stuart now has under its tents
sixty-six officers and 1,020 men. as
j shown in the list^ of the Adjutant
General's office, exclusive of the en
gineer . company, w hich consists of
three officers snd about seventy men
The whole count of soldiers in camp
comes to over 1,lf.n. The number will
be decreased by thirty-five within the
next few days by the removal of the
recruiting details to their stations, but
it should be Increased gradually after
that by new men sent in to join the
ranks.
rh<* distribution of officers and men
among the various sections ..f the. cantp
is as follows: headquarters, three of
ficers; quartermaster's department, five
officers, nine men; Signal Company,
three officers, seventy men; First Bat
talion. Field Artillery, including the
unattached Battery C, of Portsmouth,
twenty-one officers. 591 men; First
Sriundion. Cavalry (Richmond Blurs),
sixteen officers, 274 men; Field Hos
pital, six officers, thirty-nine men;
medical department, cavalry, one of- I
Hirer, two men; field artillery, one of
ficer. ten men; recruiting detail, ten
officers, twenty-five men.
I a> day will come within about two
weeks, according to reports afloat
around headquarters yesterday. Lieu
tenant-Colonel Consolvo, State ilisinirs
i:iK officer, will be expected to visit
tamp Stuart between August l and r>.
Company pay rolls will be ready on
time, it is said; for several of the
officers are already at work figuring
out each man's share of the money.
SlCiXA I, ( OKI'S si:\|)s
hks.s u;i:s Pito.M tai,i, i>i ii.dim.s
Members of the Signal Corps were
busy yesterday on sevoral tall build
ings of the downtown section of Rich
mond receiving and sending messages.;
Wigwagging. ? signaling with hello-'
graph and semaphore and telegraphy. [
both wire and wireless, are included
In the repertoire of this versatile com
mand. Some of the men are getting
so they can talk 011 their lingris, and
the sign language of both 'ndlans and j
hobos Is plain as day to thern.
Great Improvement Is rosulling from
^Continued <>n Second Page.)
r
OFF ENTRANCE 13 CHFES
Draw In Closer to Three-Mile Limit
iind Ilegin Rijjid l'atrol
of Waters.
IvKEP VIGIL OX. 15-MILE LANE
. Germans Confident That the Deutfjch
lainl Is Ready to Move Down Bay,
and Wait for Opportunity to Make
Dash Into Atlantic.
NORFOLK. VA . July 21 ?Allied
j warships which have been lying off
the entrance to Cape Henry for several
! rlays in anticipation of a dash by the^
Peutschland drew in closer to the i
three-mile limit to-day and began a
rigid patrol of the waters. Through
out the day they moved up and down
a lane of perhaps fifteen miles, meet-'
j ing frequently directly off the hay en-(
| trance, pausing a few moments, as if:
I exchanging notes, and then resuming j
! their vieil
I The names, nationalities and exact j
I number^ of the ships are unknown!
| here. No more than two of them have!
| been seen together at one time, hut i
a persistent report is that a third ship'
j is lying about thirty miles out, and j
I that at times it relieves one of the'
[patrols. General opinion is that, two |
i of the ships are British and the other I
1 French. The ships believed to be L'lrit- j
ish are darker than the third
XONK OF SlIll'S C'Amtir.S
FI.AU Milt IIKA IIS XAMK
None of the ships carries a flap: nor]
bears a name, incoming vessels report.
Few vessels, however, have been near
them.
Entrance to the rapes Is made from
two sides, and never directly into the
center. The allied ships have taken
'? advantage of this situation. When a
vessel approaches thev draw together
directly off the entrance, and thus
avoid ingolnc traffic.
From Orman sources to-day came
[expressions of confidence, said to have
, !>een based on authoritative inform.?
ition, that the Peutschland will move
I down the bay from Baltimore either
j to-morrow or Sunday nl.clit to a point
j near Cape Henry and wait there a day
j or two for an opportunity to dash out
into the Atlantic. These same sources
' insist that the Bremen, another sub
mersible, will conie into the capes soon
after the Peutschland leaves, and it
| is solely to permit the Bremen to draw
near to American waters that the
i Peutschland is delaying her departure.
| Neither fear of the allied ships nor a
) desire to take on uold has anything {
j to do with the delay, it is declared.
Ill MOR OF SI 11.11 A It I M". COXVOV
WITHOFT FOI'XIIATIOX
; I
A rumor that German submarines ;
acted as a convoy to the Peutschland j
on her trip to America and are waiting
a short distance out in the Atlantic to j
return with her also is current. It'
does not appear to have strong founda
tion. however.
It is generally believed that the
Peutschland will not make her dash
until 'lie weatbei becomes more unset
itled, and this may delay her departure
I several days. All signs of the storm
that swept np the < o;tsl this week have
passed, and the stars are shining to
night.
ii!?:\ of tiik hi:i tm ih,am>
fi:ti:d in iiai. i imoiiic
BALTIMORE, July 21.?Captain Paul
Koenig and fourteen members of the
crew of the submarine Peutschland
were feted to-night by thousands of
Baltimore citizens of German extrac
tion** at Canstatter Park, under the
auspices of the local branch of the
German and Austrian Rod Cross. They
remained at tho park until a late hour.
Captain Koenig tnadtf a brief address,
in which he 8ald "I will see you again
within a few weeka."
FLOOD SUFFERERS
FACE STARVATION
IN REMOTE PLACES
Supplies Are Being Rushed
Into Devastated Districts
From Several Cities.
RELIEF COMMITTEES
BEGIN ACTIVE WORK
Attention o? War Department
Called to Conditions in
Yadkin Valley.
D1SATH LIST LKSS THAN 100
Armies of Repair Men at Work.
Situation Kxpcrted Soon
to He Normal.
With the Southeastern floods vir
tually over. North Carolina cltizen3
have turned to the work of relief, and
supplies of food and other necessaries
are flowing Into devastated districts
from half a dozen cities in the State.
In addition. Representatives Bage and
Webb have called the War Depart
ment's attention to conditions in the
Yadkin Valley, and Secretary Baker
has ordered a report from district
engineers, with a view of asking Con
gress for authorization to extend help
to the sufferers if Federal action be
comes necessary. Relief committees
have been organized In several cities.
Conditions arc described as serious
in Wilkes. Ashe and Watauga Coun
ties. where many are said to be facing
starvation. In North Wilkesboro a
committee appointed by the Mayor has
sent out appeals for help. All food
supplies are said to be exhausted or
greatly curtailed, and with roads and
railways washed away, the transporta
tion problem is serious. The crops In
Wilkes and adjoining counties are said
to have been completely destroyed by
the high waters
Greensboro citizens to-day started a
fund for relief work
Flood victims in the. Asheville dls
' trlct are provided with food from that
'city, and wagons and motor trucks are
I leaving Charlotte at frequent Intervals
with supplies.
SIMM 1". It VAC A TIQ.N ISTS
amoxw those penned it
Rutherfordton has sent wagon
trains and pack horses over the moun
' tains with food for .1.r>o persons in the
j Chimney Rock and Tint Cave section.
I About 100 tourists and summer vaca
tionist? are among those penned up In
' the hills. Appeals for outside help
have been sent out from Rutherford
ton.
Two additional bodies were recovered
from the Catawba River to-day near
j Belmont, leaving six of the twenty
who went down with the Southern
R nil way bridce Sunday unaccounted
for It is believed now that the death
list from the flood will be less than
100.
Reports to-day from the Chimney
Rock section told of the killing of the
family of Bruce Grant by a landslide
down Bald Mountain.
The armies of repair men sent to
the flooded section are making rapid
progress, and prospects are that early
next week normal schedules will be
resumed on the main lines of the rail
roads affected. Various lines, however,
will be out of commission much longer.
conditions n tnni.v
A I'PHO ACHING NORMAL
ASHEVILLE, N. C., July 21.?The
I close of the fifth day since the dis
! asirous floods found conditions rapidly
| approaching normal in this section,
: where repair work was being rushed,
and relief measures carried out. Home
less victims of the high waters have
'?ecu provided with food, shelter and
cioti.es. alihrugh, according to reports,
, it ions are not so favorable in iso
late.I re.-lions of Xorth Carolina.
Active \? <>rk was in progress around
here to-day on several large industrial
1 ?!;m11(laniaued by the flood. The river
front, a mile in length, was the only
I.i*? ion of t sheville to suffer from the
|i<>. (!. and the work of restoration and
salvage v.-as going forward there rapid
Iv. Business men and manufacturers
! afiected continued to decrease their
| es-1--nates of loss.
Railroad repair work is well under
way, and it was officially announced
| that l.y Wednesday train service would
I e resume.I between Asheville and
Spartanburg, and that probably by
i Mon-la* a 1-ne would be in operation
i from nere to llendersonville.
FOOD SPORT\<;e reported
IN SOME REMOTE SECTIONS
Food shortages in many of the
mere remote sections which were
swept > last Su.may's floods were
r?-j oi led to-day, and information
: here was that at some places
t! ?: population actually faced famine
unless speedy relief was forthcom
ing. Fedeial aid has been asked
for the people in Morganton and
vicinity, and Wilkesboro, and It
was expected that similar requests
would be made from other sections.
Latest reports to-day were of great
destruction by the floods In parts of
Wilkes, Ashe, Watauga and Alexander
Counties, and it was in those counties
that the greatest suffering among the
people existed. In many places the
people were said to be living on pota
toes alone, all other foodst.uffs having
been carried away by the flood waters.
Reports of property destruction con
tinue to be received as couriers arrive -
from sections of the State still cut off
from communication. Latest advices
are that the Virginia and Carolina Rail
road was badly damaged in Ashe and
Watauga Counties, and that the
Watauga and Yadkin Valley Railway
to Gramlin, in Caldwell County, was
almost destroyed.
From Black Mountain to C&*awba
railroads are reported to have been
washed out ia many places on the
