THE WEATHER FORECAST.
Probably thunder showers to-day; to.
morrow fair; moderate winds.
Highest temperature ytittrsky, 83; lowest, 68.
Detailed weather, null and marina reports on pats I.
tin.
IT SHINES FOFysif
VOL. LXXXIII. NO. 826.
NEW YORK, SATURDAY, JULY 22, 1916. Copyright, mt, by tht 8un Printing and PublUMng AtoclatU.
ONE CENT
In (Ireater New York,
Jersey CHy ud Newark.
I F.Uewhere.
J TWO CENT.
BRITISH PRESS TO. 'CZAR'S FORCES
N. Y. CITY BA BES, G. 0. P. WILL ATTACK
nDiVRN HAMI? IN WILSON ON MEXICO
uKKIHAM THIKU LINK HP. HQ6 0TVR IN
11UIU1! UUlULi 111
VIllUUU Ml 1 IV 111
I
) AND NEW YORK PRE S Si
FEAR OF PLAGUE
New London Refuses to Let
Any Land and Other
Towns Act.
JERSEY FORCES ALL
FROM MOUNTAIN VIEW
Quarantines Outside State
More Rigorous Than
Ever.
DETENTION CAMP
TALKED OF HERE
Day's Deaths 32, but New
Cases Show Decided
Decrease;
Quarantine against New Yorkers by , tno cnalrn,nn wno hat, a conference
communities In fear of Infantile paral- with the campaign committee.
mils has become so stringent as to Committeeman R. B. Howell of Ne
reis nOS MCOnw U Birillin w , - ,. .,,.. ,.n.. ,h. mnrnlnr tn Ih.
cause (treat Inconvenience.
In New London, Conn., yesterday
.., . . .-.-
hlrtynve youngsters and fifteen
thirty
dults. their parents, were detained
on the New London line steamer Ches
ter W. Crispin on reaching port. A
policeman was stationed on the boat
to see that none crossed the gang-
1- i. -i . v. - innMal,in rw.mn... . &-na .wov woo mr i uu i riuiiii. I nave Hnunn
plank, and the steamship company wai Imlana j)Ctlf fof mny yMn j
forced to feed them preparatory to never knew Republican sentiment so
transporting them back to this city strong. We will elect two Republican
, .. ..!. Senator ,'ind eight Republican Congress-
to-day. The precautions were taken mtn of shrteen."
at the Instance of Inspector McOlnley After tlie meeting, which was an
,t, ii.ni.h neimrtment executive session. Chairman Wlllen
Of the Health Department. that Mr. Hughes would start v'g-
Two or three children from New lork)rtouil attnck on the Mexlcnn policy In
also were found by Inspectors on the i his speech of acceptance and that that
train arriving In New London at 3 :S0 speech would be the keynote for the
o'clock yesterday morning, and they. ' campaign which would be struck re
too, were put on the boat. A few who peatedly whenever and wheraver Repub
were en route to Rhode Island weft per- llcan speeches were made,
mltted to pass. The quarantine order Col. Roosevelt's force will be thrown
waa extended yesterday afternoon to In- liito this phase of the campaign and It
elude all children from surrounding t likely he will make more than Ihc
..,. four or five speeches orlclnnllv nlnnn.vl.
i.. 'fnnni.lnvletr. x. .T.. about 100 1
summer colonists from New York and
Urooklyn. with a few from .NewarK, were
ordered yesterday to leave their bunga-1
lows along the Passaic River and re-
turn home. The order was given Thurs- j
.... . .. t,nAA a um.li 1
nay oy .iut wit.o ' - - -
.i.. k u n. .......nii ti.nm I
from leaving town, but many who had
packed were forbidden to return to their
cottages and had to pass the night at
the railroad station.
Marooaed for Twsslr Honrs.
Many New York families with chil
dren, who had gone to visit friends In
met at the station
Mountatnvlew, were
Thursday ana oruerea noi 10
Borne stayed fro B w we.u can lndllstrei nd workm,n woud c0.
hours before they could get a train . out. nue ,n (n!U n
In all. sixty men. women and children ,,,,,,, .. attltude loward tne
were deported '"terday anrt,.l2" L,i belligerents during the war will be sn
are to go to-day. All houses where chll- otnfr matter , ,(e ,one )nt0 lorounv
dren from New Aork have visited were bu, no ,nkng WM of wna,
nut un der a month's Quarantine.
In Hoboken the Department of Health
was crowded all day with representa-
lives of business nouses ouisioe i ne
who were requirea 10 snon rernucuit-
eiore ueiiiK icrum " "
ulthln the city. The, police were on
duty all night at the city entrances, bar
ring all children who had no certificate
of health. Early In the morning several
vanloads of furniture were sent back
scroi. the ferry because the drivers came
from the East Side of New York. Chil
dren hailing from Infected districts are
r.ot admitted even with certificates. All
vacations for policemen have been with
drawn. I'lfteen new cases were reported from
Elizabeth, N. J. Two victims were re
ported In Rutherford and East Ruther
ford. N. J. ; four In Paterson. and one
t.irh in Clifton Garfield. Hackensack
and East Paterson. Nine were reported1,
from Newark, two In Union and one eacn
It Randolph township, Weehawkcn, Rah
way and Jersey City. The total number
In New Jersey to date Is 239. One new
". - . . . n u in
case was d scovered In New Bochelhj In
found yesterday. The death of Helen meeting Chairman Wlllcox
nedlarchnk. 2 years o'?' "Prled taIU(. wllh t.nator starling of Houth
from Yonkers, making the fourth from UnkotBi a membr of the Senate steer-
. y' i. .i.u . ...Iltig committee, about the situation In his
In Jersey City the " state, and kot encouraging reports.
Planning to close thf '"' "cnnc ' 'f jam A. Hcmenway of Indiana, a for-
1-b.hJ ".5 MirirP.?ll. tarsal "r Senator, also had a long talk with
I lnln nil children under 16 are barred l Jr wm,,OJti and came out delticlited
irom eniering me iowii miiu irniu.ni
cninren may not leave eyen ror a u
iinTf.su tht viavA 1-ij.tnn ftriinrnifi.
I.tt.rnl U.nr. f Vnrt Tvitten. I.. I..
..r..ia.. r.;.V .v.. 7nr nnd.r miirnntln.. expecU to meet aaln soon, tironaoiy pe-
tn..sP,yor.hwirchdVrnq..ar.BT;n.nr: or,uVy,H.nXi?.h..0f XZl
s0w.1rhrUh,.sta,?.ronhe fam,"eS ' m. -co'to''unnrer.
wrs nimin tne siaiion. l.... .i i u'iiw min an.r,ri u,,m...
The Erie Railroad has sent out a bul
let in to all it station agent warning
them to notify prospective passenger
thit children will be barred from most
ef the stations along the line In New
Jertcy nnd Pennsylvania. Bxourslona
by boat to West Point will probably be
called oft because all children from out
side are barred.
The Pennsylvania State Department of
Health has notified the Lehigh Valley
Railroad to discontinue excursions for
children to Coney Island "owing to the
malignant type of extended epidemic of
Infantile paralysis In New York city."
The order continues: "If theso exrur
lion, are continued by railroad com
pmlrs the State will have to quarantine
II children up to the age of It yearn
from entering the Commonwealth from
Nw Vork Btate."
Deerraae In Cases.
The report of the New York Health
Department yesterday showed a de
ettao in the number of cases, with sn
Increase of one In the number of deaths
& (omparcd with the preceding day.
li victims having died. There wars it
lew rases In the five boroughs. This
Is the lowest number reported sines July
I Urooklyn had 3a fresh cases, th low
"t numben. sines June 21, whsn 21
ptralihla patient were recorded.
The Federal Health Service yssttr-
Costlaufd on Third Pagt.
National Committeemen De
cide Administration Policy
Is Campaign Issue.
HUGHES KEYNOTE JULY 81
Nominee and Col. Roosevelt to
Fire Broadsides in Car
negie Hall.
It was decided yesterday by the Re
publican campaign committee that Pres
ident Wilson's Mexican policy should be
one of tho chief targets during the forth
coming campaign. Col. Theodore Roose
velt wilt fire his heaviest broadside and
Charles E. Hughe will make the flrM
Lattack In his speech of acceptance here
on July II.
Mexico wax the principal topic of dis
cussion nt the two hours meeting of tho
committee In the Hotel Ant or. Oscar
S. Straus was the only one of the thir
teen members who was not present and
all the others, representing the whole
country, agreed that on President Wil
son's Mexican record alone Mr. Hughes
ahould win.
Chairman William R. Wlllcox talked
to two nun who know about the Mexi
can situation and Just what effect
"watchful waiting" has had on It. Henry
Ijine Wilson, formerly Ambassador to
Mexico; and Nelson O'Hhaughncssy, for-
commlttec, saying emphatically that the
middle West Is disgusted with tho wa
bllng In Mexfto, particularly now th
, Nntlona, Guardsmen had ben haul.
1th the wab-
at
hauled
down to the border In day coaches to do
nothing.
Predict Indiana for Hashes.
"Indiana Is going for Hughes by 50,
000 majority,'- said Mr. Wilson after his
...11. 1 1 U . L -.... I ... I. , -
Many of his speeches will be devoted to
Mexico almost entirely and In all of
-ioiiiinni: inn, one o: nix
favorite Issues. The times and Sla vs
of his speeches are now under consldera-
Tne campaign committee vesterdav
.... .. .. -----
talked over other of the camnahm liwiies.
b' '!" the least of which will be
the restoration of the good jM fnsh
loned Republican brand of prosperity 1
ana me -run ainner pail" of yeans
gone by.
Tarl lunp Also Dlarnssed.
The question of the tariff also was
lt d'c.ld'1 ". ,h
party which In jeara past has Kalned
thro-mh nroteetlnn (, ,
sltlon the Republican would take to
ward It. -Needless to say. they do not
approve of Wilson's course, but this Is a
oue!,tlon that Mr. Hughes also will
stralchten out In his speech of accept
ance,
A full report was made to the cam
paign committee of the result of the
talks Its cub-committee had on Thursday
with the committees from the Senate
and House appointed to secure the elec
tion of a Republican Congress to back
up the Republican President, which Mr.
Hughes Is very anxious to accomplish.
Tills report waa very favorable,
North Dakota In . O. P. Calasaa.
Along the same line Senator Porter
J. McCumber of North Dakota, who Is
a candidate for reelection, asked the
committee particularly that Mr. Hughes
visit hla mate, because, Willie It waa
sure to elect the Republican nominee, the
Senatorial situation waa complex.
Frederick Hale, a candidate for the
Senate In Maine, spoks on conditions In
111 isiie, ill mucii iv irxuy iibp uert
decded to coned,,-.,, for the early elec
his titate. In which It already h been
. n....iiA. .. ..
, Tha Vamnnlan committee ad loomed
- ----- t
suJen i i i"'" "". "u
day. and Mr. Wlllcox will spend Sunday
nt ureat wecK,
ASKS AID FOR 230 BOYS.
Dr.
Cadman Appeal to Ills Con-
vresratlon (or f fl,500.
The Rev. Dr. S. Parkea Cadman, pai
tor of the Central Congregational
Church of Urooklyn, but now on the
Texa border wllh the Twenty-thlrd In
fantry Regiment aa chaplain, has ap
pealed to the citizens of Rrooklyn. but
more particularly to member of his
congregation, for $3,500 to furnish tho
Twenty-third with supplies not Issued
by the Government.
This was forecast tn Dr. Cadman'a
parting words. He urged his congrega
tion to be prompt and generous In re
sponding to his requisitions for "a mule
or two, or a r ora automoune.
"Don't waste your strength on the
street corners waving the boys good-by,"
h ssld. Do sometntng ror them."
Baby Left on Railroad Track.
Glasssoro, N, J., July 21, A cry
halted a freight train on the Rrldgcton
branch of the West Jersey and Seashore
Railroad ners to-day, The crew Inveitl
.ted and found a lusty ten-day-old
baby lying between th rails. A foster
motnsr tits isssa oar or iss cans
MMM-4tr I
, DISMISSAL FOR fi 000
nnTmnumriT inmimn
rnuufimiAL ammo
tion Who Formed Union and
Votwl rn strllio
Must Go.
Ncwark, N. J July Jl. omclals of
the Prudential Life Insurance Company
decided to-day to dismiss every agent
who Is a member of the newly organized
Prudential Agents' Protective Associa
tion. This Is the corporation's answer to
the vote of the men last night to strike
If even a single nwn whs discharged.
If the company keeps Its word, and there
Is no relenting on the part of the ngents,
this means that ,000 agents will ! out
next Monday morning.
At the home office It was denied the
union men numbered 8.000. The company
declared that not more than 600 men
at most are Identified with the associa
tion. All these men are concentrated In
New York, with a few In Philadelphia,
the company contends, and cannot affect
the great tr.asa of their employees
throughout the United (Mates and
Canada.
An explanation of what 'the company
feels Is the main Issue was given out.
Until recently agents were allowed fif
teen times the Increase of their Industrial
business as special salary to spur them
to work up new business.
The result, the company declares, was
that In many cases ngents Induced
policy holders to surrender their policies
for cash and subsequently got them to
purchase new Industrial policies. This
resulted, the company declares. In the
Insured not procuring the full benefits of
policies, after they surrendered their old
ones, on account of advanced age.
Almlltlon of the special salary system
resulted and a new arrangement under
which agents were granted fifteen times
their weekly Increases was put Into ef
fect. Tills, the company declares, did
not meet the approval of the men who
are fomenting the proposed strike, al
though the arrangement was Intended to
reimburse agents for their losses of
extra compensation.
Two representatives of the union
visited Trenton yesterday and called at
the office of the department of banking.
They made a plea In behalf of the
agents. They said that the Interests of
the policy holders were In Jeopardy If
Inexperienced agents were employed, and
that the present rates of pay are In
adequate to Insure competent agents.
Thomas K. Johnson, Deputy Commis
sioner of Insurance, who received the
delegation, gave them little hope. He
took the stand that unless the stabitlty
of the company was Involved, or that
business was contracted In a manner
contrary to law, State officials could not
Interfere.
At-BANT, July 11. The Mtate Insur
ance Department will act as Inter
mediary for the employees of the Pru
dential Life Insurance Company. It was
learned to-night. Thla course to ward
off the threatened strike of agents was
decided on to-night following a confer
ence between the State Department of
ln.nr.mre. Jesse Phillips, and a com-
mlttee of agents,
nt n.rnt At this conference
grievances of the agents were explained
to the authorities. A written complaint
will serve as a basis of negotiations Be
tween the ngents and the company.
HORSE THROWS MRS. HARMON.
Daashter of Commodore llenrdlrt
Hart nt Cos Cob.
GssENWicti. Conn., July 21. Mrs.
Clifford 11. Harmon, daughter of Com
mmlor K. C. Henedlct of Indian Harbor,
was Injured to-day when a horse she
wns riding on
Inuian i-iem rona, -o.i
train and .
uod, iook inaiu in " I'-""-." ...... - ," -
ran away, throwing ner to me pave-.
ment,
... .,, n...
wasplcked up In a semi-conscious
She
.1 1 I
on and taken to tne iiome oi r.
He W. Walsh near by. later being re-
o nones
were broken, but Mrs. Harmon sustained
several cuts ana uruises ana sunercu
from tne snocK.
The horse ran for a considerable dls
tanc before It was finally caught.
SITE FOR BROAD ST. HOSPITAL.
Trustee Property on East
Corner of Sooth Street.
The Hroad Street Hospital trustees
have bought the east corner of Hroad
and South atreets as the site for a new
hospital In the financial district.
Edward L. Wemple of the Warner
Sugar Refining Company, president of
the hospital, signed contracts yesterday.
Five stories high, the building now on
the site measures CO." feet on Hroad
street and 47, feet on South street. ITn-
tll recently lt was occupied by the
Italian Immigrant Society. The building
will be rebuilt according to plans by
William McNoll Smith.
The hospital will be ready in in rail.
It will have 100 beds.
MAY GO TO COURT OVER HUGHES
Progressive Chiefs Still Split Over
an Indorsement.
SrnACL'SR. Jul 21. Progressive lead.
era from nil sectloriH of the State arrived
In Syracuse to-night rr tne meeting or
tho Progressive Stale committee here to
morrow. Anti-Hughe committeemen
practically conceded that Charles K.
Hughes will bo Indorsed for President by
the committee,
According to plans announced to-night
a resolution Inviting Judge Samuel Sea
bury to enter he Progressive primary
for nomination for Governor will be In
troduced, though advocates of Judge Sea.
bury aro not optimistic to-night aa to Its
adoption.
Anti-Hughes men, led by County Chair
man John O'Cpnnell of New York, cre
ated a mild sensation to-night when they
threatened an appeal to the courts If nny
decision Is reached by tho committee
placing the name of Mr, Hughes or those
of the Republican Presidential electors
on the Progressive ticket of this State.
NINE CENT BREAD IN IRELAND.
Cost of Living; Increased 41 Per
Cent, hr War.
Washington, July 21. Since the out
break of the war the cost of living In
Ireland has Increased 41.2 per rent,
A consular report to the Department
of Commerce to-day says bread Is nine
cents for a two pound loaf, sugar nine
cents a pound, milk seven rents a quart,
and butter 23 cents a pound. These
prlcaa are 40 to 10 per osnt- higher
than th normal. '
mm, writer, vs
i iiii csiir nnrcinruT
muoun, rncoiucni
Senator Uorah Shows Execu
"vc'ii Change of Heart
on Child Labor.
Wasiunotos. July 21. Senator
Horah In the Senate to-day quoted
Woodrow Wilson, writer, against Wood
row Wilson, President of the United
States, on the child labor bill.
While the navy bill was before the
Senate the child labor volcano suddenly
showed signs of erupting. Senator
Hardwick of Ceorgla, Democrat, began
to chide Senator Oalllnger for advocat
ing the bill. Insisting he had changed
front on the Issue.
Then Senator Borah read from a copy
of "Constitutional Government In the
United States," by Woodrow Wilson, the
following passage to show that the
President's present advocacy of the
child labor bill represents a change of
heart :
"It's (Congress's) power Is 'to regu
late commerce between the States' and
the attempts now being made during
every session of Congress to carry the
Implications of that power beyond the
utmost boundaries of reasonable and
honest Inference show that the only
limits likely to be observed by politicians
are those set by the good sense und con
servative temper of the country.
"The proposed Keder.il Constitution
with regard to the regulation of child
labor affords a striking example. If
the power to regulate commerce be
tween the States can be etretched to In
clude the reputation of labor In mills
and factories It can be made to embrace
every particular of the Industrial organi
zation and action of the country. The
only limitations Congress would observe
should the Supreme Court ussent to
such obviously absurd extravagances of
Interpretation would be the limitations
of opinion and of circumstances."
When he had concluded reading the
Senator remarked that the Senator from
New Hninpihlre bad as much right to
change his attitude on the child labor
question as the President had.
CAPT. K0ENI0 IS FETED.
alttmoreaas Honor Commander of
Blal German 1' Boat.
mi.Tiuonr, Md., July 21. dpt. Paul
Koenlg snd fourteen members of the
crew of the submsrlne Deutschland
were feted to-night by thousands of
Ilaltlmoreans at a celebration at Can
statter Park, under the auspices of the
local branch of the German and Aus
trian Red Cross.
Capt. Koenlg made a brief address In
which he said. "I will see you again
within a few weeks." It waa announced
the Deutschland will not sail for Uremen
until Thursday next week.
I.ate to-night unusual activities were
noticed on the pier and the barges that
enclose the Deutschland. A crew of
stevedores entered the warehouse anil
Tlmmlns and n launch remain on guard.
It Is reported the Deutschland will
carry back to Germany a big consign
ment of gold from "one of the largest
American banking institutions."
ROBERT BACON IN FIELD.
Abandon Track Train In 51 ad on
Way In Mexico.
Firi.n HcADQCAitTRns, Mkxico, via
wlrehtis to Columbus, N. M., July 21.
Robert Ilacon. ex-Ambassador to
France, and Dr. R. P. Strong, of the
Harvard medical school reached here
to.ilav. Thov are Kolna over the Ameri
can lines of communication to study
conditions regarding soldiers In the
'fi.;d
abandoned the truck train upon
which they left ColumbTts at Vuclta .le
' .. . .... , nor,h of ht..
wherf w( Mru(pcl,11t ,,rouKl
tliroush the
. ironical deluge. They -aid
, - ,, , , hrief
,,,c" '
N. Y. BREWERIES FACE STRIKE.
Walkout Sanctioned for Machin
ist. Who Demand M a Day.
The International Association of Ma
chinists through Its executive board yes-1
terday sanctioned a strlko of machinists
In fifty breweries in the metropolitan
district. The general demands of the
men, It ns nnnounecd, call for a mini
mum wage of 44 n day,
'There have been a number of con
ft rences with tho brewery owners," said
ItuslnesH Agent William J. Deering of
District No. ID of tho aisoclatlon. "They
have been unsatisfactory. If n final ad
justment of the grievances cannot be ar
lunged by to-morrow or Monday the gei.
cral strike will go Into effect. In case
of a strike not only will all the ma
chinists regularly employed In the brew
eries be affected hut also the machinists
low employed Installing new machinery "
LOST, HUSBAND ; S5 REWARD.
I Mrs. John Cimalm Wnald Pay
Mure, hot Can't Afford
II.
A woman describing herself as Mrs.
John Cummins of 631 Franklin nvenue,
Urooklyn, asked Lieut. Ill 11 Foley at
Police Hrudquarters In Jersey City last
night to help her find her missing hus
band. "Ho disappeared on June 8," she said,
"and I'll gladly give $5 to anybody who
will tell me where he Is. I would make
the reward higher only I can't afford
it."
Mrs. Cummins said her husband wa
n foreman In a munition factory "some
whera In Jersey two and a half hours
ride from Urooklyn." She declared he
Is "a good looking man," who is known
also bh "Tom Ashlon" and goes by the
nickname of "Shorty. '
CummlnH la the father of three smRll
children.
WAR CALL 12,280,000,000.
Hnm Aaqnlth Will Ask Brlnar Eng
land's Total tn f I -1,1 00,000,000,
Ixjnpon, July 21, The Treasury De
partment has Issued a "suoplemrntnry
estimate" for the vote of credit which
Premier Aaipilth will ask the House of
Commons to vote for the war on Mon
day. The cull will be for f tr.o.flon.noo
($2,200,000,000) instead or 1300,000,000
(11.500,000,000), This vote la the larg
est asked by the Government since the
beginning of the war and brlnga tho
total voted this year to 1,080,006,000
($5,250,000,000), and th total alnce the
bofisplrW of th war to ll.llt.OH.tM
Immediately proceeded to me norgr. a boken. Is In a critical condition In the """ ',,lr P'1" 'earciieu ror
powerful light on the hurricane deck of South Side Hospital. Hahilon. L. I., from ' """rabatid or Information which might
the Neckar. the Interned North Herman injuries suffered while diving In Grant I pro.Ve f ""i 10 the Entente,
i in. j ii... - 1,1.1 hn lichtr.l The nie 1 1 .. ........ in. i. i .... I American firms deallnr with nrmmnv
i.iwj is . i-i"-- ' - i rjir i ilia. iiik iiri m. in rruiii iru .
DANIELS ORDERS SIMS
TO REVISE HIS REPORT
Secretary Wants Caiitain'H Ob
servations on Naval Rat
tle' to Be "Neutral.''
Wahiiismton, July 21. Secretary
Daniels has written to Capt. W. S. Sims
asking him to rewrite his statement
about the naval battle off Jutland nnd
make It conform to the dictates of strict
neutrality. Not even the House Naval
Affairs Committee, which sollrlted the
statement, will receive It until It has
been modified and put In such shape
that It will not offend Germany.
There Is keen speculation In naval
circles a to how Capt. Sims will take
the Department's request that he make
his remark conform to the approved
"soft pedal" brand dictated by the doc
trine of "strict neutrality." Capt. Sims,
they say, either says what he means or
says nothing. It Is likely he will elim
inate all discussion of the naval battle
In Ills report or possibly ask to be ex
cused from expressing his opinion.
Secretary Daniels said Capt. Sims
had made some very Interesting and able
observations on the Jutland battle, but
line! been tno frank In certain passages.
The Secretary added that the revised
letter, If Capt. Sim revises It, will be
made public In due course.
BOYS SIX SAVING BROTHER.
Hor of 0, Rescued From River, Sees
Riders Borne Array,
Arcola, N. J.. July 21. Thomas Irv
ing. 12 years old, and his brother, John,
11, werx drowned In the Saddle River
near this village this nfternoon after,
raving the life of a third brother, Ches
ter, C years old, who had waded beyond
his depth.
The smallest Irving, when he fe't him
self slipping off a shelving bank Into
eight feet of water, called to his broth
ers, who were paddling about on water
wing". John reached him first and
pushed him back Into shallow water,
where Tom grabbed him. Trying to re
gain the shorn himself John was caught
In the swift current, lost his water wings
und sank.
Seeing that Chester was safe Tom
pushed himself out Into the stream and
tried to i rcue John, but was entangled
by hidden roots In the bottom of the
river and was drowned, lloth bodies
were recovered.
The father of the boys, James Irving.
Is manager of the Metropolitan Life In
surance Company's, office at Tarrytown,
N. V.
HIS RECK BROKEN; LIVES.
SaTe Jamea Peale From Urnlh.
Montclair, N. J.. July 21. James
Peale, II years old. Hin of Mr. and Mrs.
Algernon Peale of 2.11 Claremont nve-i
nue. a student at Stevens Institute. Ho-
as having been broken.
An X-ray photograph of the Injury
has been taken and physicians will de
termine whether It is possible to operate
In an effort to save his life. Ills father
and mother ure at his bedside. Since
the close of Stevens Institute for the
summer vacation young Peole has been
employed as a chauffeur by Samuel (ill
llspie of Isllp.
F0RECX0SES ON SKYSCRAPER.
Title flnarantr Trnst File Salt
Against Liberty Tower.
Overproduction of office spnee In the
downtown district has resulted in
foreclosure suit against another sky-
scraper the Liberty Tower, a thirty
one story structure at Nassau and Lib
erty streets, valued at about 13.000,000.
Htllt ar.ilnst 1h. I.lhnrtv Trtu., a .
nleiI yesterday In the Sunreme Court
by the Title Guarantee and Trust Com-
pany, which seeks to recover 3S,00
In the shape of a second mortgage bond
Issue, for which the title company Is
trustee. There is a prior mortgage on
the property amounting to $1,600,000
held by the Metropolitan Life Insurance
Company. The skyscraper Is owned by
the Liberty-Nassau Hiilldlug Company,
which took It over In 1909.
Last Tuesday tlie Smith Hull, ling nt
to 7 Wall street the former home of
the Rankers Trust Company, was sold
in foreclosure,
PREPAREDNESS LAWS STAND.
Whitman Refnae to Call Special
ftesdon for Repeal.
Albany. July 21. Gov. Whitman to-
day declined to call a special session of
the Legislature to consider the repeal of
nve preparedness measures passed dur
ing the last session. He made this an
nouncement at the conclusion of a hear
ing at which a dozen men and women
representatives of Socialist, Quaker nnd
labor organizations requested the extra
tern-Inn,
Tlie Governor told the members of the
delegation they were not fully Informed
concerning the provisions of the statutes
they sought to have repealed.
FINDS $8,000 IN WRONG BAG.
Trenton Man Looking for Owner
of Vnlnable Securities.
Henja n:n Levine, manager of the
Grand Theatre, Trenton. N J has an
assortment of promissory notes calling
for $8,000, legal papers and mortgages
which ho Is anxious lo exchange for a
black pongee suit und some soiled linen.
Levins arrived In New York from
Trenton by way of the Pennsylvania
Railroad vesterday afternoon and per
mitted a negro porter t carry a black
leather bag containing clothing destined
for the laundry. Later he discovered
that Instead of his own he had
a stranger1 bag marked "E. II,. Dallas.
Tex," The promissory notes were made
payable to Edwin Hobby, who, the con
tents of the hag indicated, Is cashltr of
the Security National Hank of Dallas.
STERNBERGER TO FRONT.
Guard Qnartrrmnster and Loree Off
to MeAllen, Tex.
Lletit.-Col. Henry Sternberger and
Capt. J. T. Lorce of the headquarters
tail of the New York militia will leave
this morning for McAllcn, Tex., with a
group of sergeants attached to the head
quarters staff, Sternberger la division
quartermaster.
Major-Gen. Wood will return from the
riattiburg camp to-day.
HOLLAND ASKS JOINT
BLOCKADE PROTEST'
Suggests Cooperation With V.
S. to Force Britain to End
Trade Interference.
Washington, July 21. The Govern
ment of Holland has npproached the
United States Government wtth a sug
gestion for cooperative action against
the mutually objectionable features of,,,rMlwd forward to tlle German third
the Hrltlsh blockade.
The action, ta be backed by reprisals
against Hrltlsh trado If necessary. Is
now understood to have been the sub
ject of the conference yesterday be
tween acting Secretary of State Polk
ana I'r.evaiicr van llapparu, tne uutrn
Minister. The possibility of the United
ana cr.evaiicr van llapparu. tne uutrn '
States as the leading neutral nation en
couraging the proposal Is a matter that
will be derided upon later.
The matter was discussed fully at the
Cabinet meeting to-day. Mr. Polk In
formed the President of the Dutch Min
ister's Informal suggestion and at the
same time outlined the etep that have
been taken by the State Department on
I behalf of several of the American Arms!.,
blacklisted under the "trading with the,
enemy act, 1
President Wilson had In vl. ihn I
view the I
sending of another vigorous note to 1
tlreat Britain In connection with the
blacklist case, but the Cuvertmo.rA r
Holland, It Is understood, considers the
blockade qtie'tioii from a broader view-
)l:tt and
lurpusea to seek a compre-1
r-dy Instead of continuing the
lienslve renie
mm- piui-r 01 proie-iing nem ny item
as each objectionable case presents it
self. I.rana to Dntrh View.
There are Indications to-night that
this (loveminent Is leaning toward the
Dutch view. Step, already hax- been
taken towatd bringing Ureat Hritaln's
attention pointedly to two features of
the restrictions hlch the Urltlsh Oov
ernment has placed on neutral trade--the
KeUure of malls and the blacklisting
of neutral flrnii.
After the conference with Chevalier
nn itapparu estcm.iy Mr. Polk sent a
cioie to Ambassador Page at London
and also to Ambassador Sharp at Pirls
directing them to ascertain when the
reply to the last American note on the
mall seizure case would be forthcoming.
The American note requested "a
prompt reply."
Holland's Interest In the del ention of
malls Is as pressing as the Interest tif I
tne cniteii .states. The detention of
malls from New York to Rotterdam has
been a feature of the Hrltlsh efforts to
cm on comtnumc.itlon between Germany
n"J Vnlte'.' .S,at'!' um" "l mal1
nearly always have agents In Holland or
some of the Scandinavian countries.
Thee agents In many cases are under
the ee of the Hrltlsh authorities, and In
seeking out "go-betweens" vvhu foster
American-German trade the Hrltlsh au
thorities have. It Is explained, made
many Innocent Dutch firms suffer
through the mere suspicion that they
are serving German Interests.
Holland feels, as do the Scandinavian
countries, that sincere efforts have been
made t allay the Hrltlsh suspicion.
.Nratrnl Khlpa Held t'n.
The mnt embarrassing arthn of the
Rrillsh authorities so far as Dutch trade
Is concerned Is the policy which Great
llrl.nln 1.... I . . . ....
up at Kirkwall ships bound from 'ncw
iSmihl? drs ined ?or "g ' ?.' The
detention ,,f the v I .,.,. . , ' ",
the los
or a day on the voyage.
To obviate this the steamship com-
panies finally came to the conclusi ,n that
t '! ,v:,s better to reftie any freight open
I ,n suspicion of German destination. They
merery onv luted the day's dela) at I
j "iriiwan, out notn A
inerlcan and Dutch
commerce has suffered ns a consequence.
Matters have reachrd a stage now
nai'ruse'b ,na fl " .."V:
tlmply for the reason that tho Hrltlsh
.intimities might consider them nisnl.
clous. This amounts to the Hrltlsh an
thnrltlea dlrtntlng Just what firms In
Hrltlsh Government.
ti, in ..i.i . . .
iiimi,.-, v. Mt-I,l. uv me
! among the Scandinavian cnuntiies that
the time Is ripe for the I'nlted States, a
u m ui. impression
Imsliim itlih fi,o, i ,,r , i i,Z 9f0 men mid that each of two other bat- lighting in tne norm only ny rtiln
shlpmems , be made H o he 1 i'11''i regiment lost mote 'that violent u.tlilery tights took plac.
words the Dutch iovenment sees Z 1 """ hHlf l,H '"ei-llve strength. The Ger-1 "on many sectors of the Dwlna."
1 Tr . ile with a otner ne.mal recuTat.ri - ,nn" statement, which refers to the regl- A notable RushIuu success In ,ho Cau
i .vl.V . ," ?'WB.u,H'd' ment in question as the lllh.HaH! casus is i. porte.l bv tho Russian War
the leading neutral nation to eoni.er.ne un,u "'e"'ay were navnuy angnuy less
with thein I remedial n?Hon coopm,"! than r.00 men. Therefore Its loss, how
The sugge,,ro,,nofVepVV,aU as las, ' deplorable In Itself, amounts to only
resort remedy admitted)!- ...... o,V, .r
nermnnent
nar io me protection or legitimate Amcr
lean Interest.
FIRMS TO FIGHT LIST.
Engage Counsel In Effort to Save
.10,000,000 Trade.
Seeing themselves losing more than
$50,000,000 In foreign trade by the Rrlt.
lsh Government boycotting eighty-two
firms In the United States, representa
tives of fifty of the concerns met at 11
Broadway yesterday afternoon, effected
a permanent organization and resolved
to fight the English Order In Council "to
the last ditch."
The plan, considered In detail behind
closed doors In the offices of the Cham
ber of Herman-American Commerce, con
templates taxing these three steps;
1, The sending of a committee of
five to Washington next week to urge
on tho State Department the Inime
dlato despatch of a vigorous protest to
Great Britain on the ground that the
order I unfair and violates principles
of Irndc lo which Amerlcnn citizens
nre entitled.
2, The collection of a fund to he
used In cnrrylng on the fight by pool
ing the available resources of each In
dividual and corporation named In tho
trading with the enemy blacklist.
3, In tho event of the failure of a
formal protest to have any effect on
the action of the British Government,
to take such steps as are deemed nec
essary to retaliate by suing shipowners
for refusing to take cargoes aent by the
CenNnued on Second Pagi,
Great' H r t a I n? w hioh "has beclmer '"'"""" -mmunlcatlon point-
pretrd here as nermlttlnc n . sneh nri "t inference tn the latter poi-
II : a felt l,y mam- howeve? thai hu tto" ,1,:,t ,,rU,Kh "M"",B" mentioned
treaty should Tnttn ''nerrn'. ,t ?"'?" "".f.""!"' !" '!' J'"?-
Kntser'a Mrn Drircn Out Attrr
.... . r .l...l,. ,
nit ..t7i MS' a r a.j
doubt Salient.
200,000 IN ONE DRIVE
Berlin Statement Soys Attack
Was Made, on Front vt
Twenty-seven Miles.
LONDON', July 21. Tile ilrlllsh In
again taking the Koureaux Wood have
line, northeast of Longuevnl. This wood
Is nn Important strategic point, the cap
ture of which would bring tho forces of 1
(ien. Hal to tho highest point on the '
ridge, commanding the Herman positions j
10 j,. ,m,. rolmf r. t, om), which j
Ilul ,Illlfh lirot(PI1 ,, (j not
wooded, lend'ug Itself not so well to de
fence. This ptobably explains the den
titrate attempts of the Senna ns to hold
the wood, where the heavy fighting con
tinues. Some Idea of the huge forces now en
gaged In the battle of the Somnie is
given In tin olllclal statement from Iler-
11 ii to-night. In which It l utated that ,
more than 200,000 troops attached tno
Thuradav mi a front o
rmJ" r,,ur'M' " s tront o
f
, twenty-seven miles. To-day's news
- muin. hi-ujj r ,-,;
from the hattlegmund, which has beei
ironi the nattleKtnunu, wnirn lias oeeu
contested bitterly since July I, shows no
great change In the relative position of
the Kratno-Hrltlsh and Herman forces
Following the advance of the Hrltlsh
north of Itazentlii and I.ongueval, which
...... ... ,
refculted in the recapture of part of the
foureaux Wood, the Inten-lty of the
lirui-n ana rrencn nuacKs nauim wie
(Jerman front north and south of the
Somme River appears to have lessened I
L-rpntlv. nmirilliiir to the latent official 1
statement Issued to-nleh:. A lull has set'
In on the Hrltlsh front, and the ParW
night olllclal statement mentions no'
act v ty along the whole front from
north of the Somme to Switzerland, j
In the salient of the Ia-1sIc redoubt
the Hermans entered the lines held by (
Qcn. Ilalg's forces, but were ejected sub-.
seiiuently, London asserts.
The Asoclated Press correspondent nt
the front says the Germans are bringing
masses of troops from Verdun nnd guns 1
. ....i.... n nr. .n.linw,. In
. """ nlllfr i""""" -
stem the allied advance. Meantime h
'indications nre that the Allies are testing
I th" strength of the (lermnn line at other
points. The trench laid py Ausiranun
troops In the netcnoornoou in Arm
tlerea attracts much Interest In this con
nection. iv.aitlons cantured yesterday by the
I'rench south of the Somme wete sub-
Jeclrd to a vigorous counter attack ilur -
Ing the night. The Germans charged
Hi.. French lines south of Soyecoiirt, but
suffered heavy losses and were dllven
back In disorder.
A strong German detachment which
advanced to the attack In the Chaulnes
region was repulsed with the bayonet.
ltetween Solssons and Rhelms the
French penetrated a German trench,
clearing It of Its defenders.
On the Verdun front the artillery was
active on both sides In the vicinity of
Chattancourt and Fletiry.
GERMANS RETIRE.
Iterlln Admits Wltliilnnrrnl of Line
nn British Front,
I.on!on July 21 A withdrawal of
the (lei man Hoops south of Hardecourt
from their first line of trenches to the
second lines. SHU ineteis to the southeast.
under tho preasure of n IVtlllsh ottark!
I Is admitted In a statement Issued ny the
' "n Wnr "m 'rHm
I ". V nrllllery t.mra-
i tton on the wnole iwemy-sevoii mile itoih
from Pozleres, northeast of Albert, down
to the vIliiKe of Vermandovlllers, three
miles southwest of Estrces. It Is added
that Hrltlsh forces succeeded In penetrat
ing the Verms ndovlllers wood, where
the German line forms a aallent.
Hrltlsh attack on the (rerman posl-
Hons at Fiouielles. north of La llassee
according to the statement, tesulteil In
a loss to the Hrltlsh of 2,000 killed and
. nearly nno taken prisoner
To-dav's Herlln olllclol report contains
contradiction of the Billlsh olllclal
lomniunlcntlon of yesterday which as -
erted that one battalion of thn 190th
Regiment, consisting of 1,000 men, lout
. . ... ,.
" Pn-e 1 1 sua maii.u.a rmu
1 renotts und tranquillizing the people at
, h .,... ... mrke.l Itl.lt Its fthe
leglmenl's) entire losses In recent weeks
iu.ti ifr ot mi r.iiKnsi. aoeKuuun.-
which Is the Wuerttcmberg regiment sta
Honed on the Ypres salient, "wheie It
l as had no set Ions lighting during the
last four weeks,"
If In that Mine," the press bureau
continues, "It lost noo men this Is a
gratifying result. The losses of the 19tith
Regiment, therefore, remain unchal
lenged." PAGE GETS WORD ON HAILS.
v
Artanl Reply tn I'nlted Stales Note
Not Ready.
London. July 21. The Foreign Office
to-day handed to Walter Mines Page, the
American Ambassador, a memorandum
replying to complaints made against tho
Hrltlsh mail censorsnip in tne recent
American note on that subject. The
nctual reply to the note, however, Is not
ready. The memoiandiiiii will be pub
lished on Monday,
Ambassador Page has been proofed a
short leave of absence, and with Mrs.
Page will leave on July 29 for the I'nlted
States for n month's stay, He Intends b
visit Washington for a conference with
the State Department,
Dnlaell'a Will Three Line.
Frederick H. Dalzcll, the towing mag
nate, who died In his summer home at
Amltyvlllo on July Hi, left his entire
estate to his widow, Kmlly II. Dalzcll.
The will, consisting of three typed llne,s,
was filed In the Surrogate's offlco In
Urooklyn yesterday, There waa nothing
which would Indicate tho size of tho
state. JJr. DalzeU'a town house was
at 111 Balnbrldga street, Brooklyn.
I Ti Hrllluh l'rui HiirftUII tilitiutwlw d
I UNI DUD (J llDIWL'
UU1IIUUIIU 1111 1 U
Teuton Armies ForcediBwek
as Hussiiins Near Guli
cinu Uorder
CITY NOW .MENACED:
IN MOVE FROM NORTH
Cnpital Reported to Have
Keen Evacuated by
Civilians.
HINDENUFRG'S LINE
SHOWS WEAKENING
Vienna Admits Retirement,
While Rerlin TcHs of
Loss of Salient.
Loniion', July 21. The menace of ;i
new Russian invasion of northeastern
(lallcla, with Lemuel g as the objective,
assumed .substantial proportions during
,1,-110 i.tpi nir uy u jr iiourn nn ii renins
1 , .,
, of the shattering by tho Russians of the
niro-iiung.iri.m oeience in me region
f tlu, eminence of the Styr und the
l.lpa. The Russians crossed the Styr
and carried their southward advance to
the gates or the town of Ilerestechk,
whu,h , , nnd ,ljlf
,, , ,
the Oallclan border.
The reverse was officially admitted
the Austro-Hungarlan War Office to-
, , T y KtaXtment ,aJ.H th
defenders werkforced'towlthdraw to nev
positions In the region of Ilerestechk." Ac
cording to th olTlcl.il night Btatemen
lk.iimf -tt ! r.itrf ,1 n lld.ula. lL.tt-ill,,
.... ....................... .
, la engaged with the AuBtro-lIungarlan
rear guard In the ngion of that town,
. More than l.t,0t) prisoner. Including
many officers, were taken by the pur
suers.
I. embers; nnil Brody MrnarosL
Rerestochk Is of tratejrlc.il Impor
tance to the Russians In tholr drive
, toward the heart of Gallcla. The new
advance threatens both Lembetir. the
Gallclan capital, and llrody. half way
between l.emlierg and the Volhynlan
fortress or Diibno. Twenty miles to tho
west of Heicstechk lies Htojanow, the
Luminal of u railway running directly
to leinlierg. The distance from Iler
estechk to llrody Is only seventeen nnd
one. half miles. Thus the Russians will
be In a position to drive to tho G.illclan
capital from two directions ns soon as
they have reached the .Stojanow-Lem-berg
railway, due west, ond the Dubno
lli ody-Letnberg road, southeast.
(Hllclal admission of the Russian ad
vance toward Ilerestechk Is contained
In the German War tlfllce report, which
sas that Gen. von Llnslngen's troops
In the region of tho village of Werben
were withdrawn "In the face of an ex
pected enveloping attack." Werben lies
half way between the continence of tho
Styr and tho l.lpa and Hcrestechk, and
Is only eight miles from tho latter.
A violent Russian offensive Is In prog
ress against Field .Marshal votj Hlnden
burg's lines on the Dwlna, around
Friedrlchfitadt, southeast of Itlen, ami
against the position: west of Vllna. Tho
olllclal Herlln statement Issued this
afternoon admits that n detachment of
Russians reached the west bank of tho
Dwiiiii to tho north of Deveten, between
Riga and Frlcdrlrhstndt. lt Is admitted
also that German advanced pickets north
of Sniorgon (west of Vllna) were forced
to fall buck before superior Ru&elan
forces.
llliidi'iibura'H Line Weakening.
This Is the first thin- slr.ee the Rus
t-Ian offensive began that any progress:
, has been made In this legion, nnd It is
1 taken hole as Indicating :i weakening
. of Von Htndeiihurg's lines.
Tne mission Miuemcnt refers to tho
otllce to-night 1'etrograd announces
that the town of UumusMiutieh. between
Treblzond nnil Erzingnn. baa baen cap"
tured from in Turks, tiiik town 1 es a
little more than forty-eight mllea north
east of Klvas, tlio chief fin tilled position
facing tint Russians on the road to Con
stantinople, The fall of Giiinuskhaneli
narks a Russian advance of forty miles
since July HI, when Halburt vein rap
tmil. Gumusliliaueli In about fifty mllca
north of Drzlim.in, thn goal of th,. Run.
flan forciK which iccently captiited .Ma
makhatiin. Despatches from Petrogriul explain
that the cess itinn of the fiwhthw In tho
DniiHter region, on tlie to.ids fioin Hue
zara nnil Kolome.i, whero tho ixtlcui"
Kutslati left wing qdvmiccd f.n nlirad of
the other sectom of ttie RuaMan fioni
during the Hist month of the new of
fcnhlve, Ih duo to the Howls Tho river
has risen six oi M'Vcn feet, coveting whin
expanst of adjacent country and mak
ing Illilitnty npeiatlohH iiniiartli..'illc.
Reports from Vladimir-Vol) nskl, tho
Russian objective tunithwoH of Kowl,
say Hint the town is depopulated exiept
for women, clilldnu ond .iKtd men, and
that lluf-i' aie staivlug and "lUTotlng
from t.ijiliold and other dl-rasi A
town councillor who waped iiwi r'i
that nil alilo bodied pel sons w ere com
pelled to woil. on Hip defi m'es or wite
depot ted tl Anstila Hii'.id Ih sold at
ono ruble h pound, ami tloie .s no meat
CANNOT FEED GERMANY.
HntocUl
ilinlts He Ciiniiol liter-iliurtitui-
In Tim ns.
mil
A MSTUnn vi, via London, July " Tie
llrrlincr TiiU' lilnll Kiys that at a rcccal
coiifei tue in D. must, nit irgnrding tho
food situation Adolph T von H.itockl,
president of Hie Ueim.in food regulation
board, frankly admitted that tlu'ic wn a
hhnrtage of foodstuffs, cspcclall In
towns, which It was intposslblu In over
come. lie said ho did not believe the prcnent
supply of potatoes would permit of the
raising of the maximum nllnwnnca from
one and one-half to two pounds a wek
for' each person, as had been proposed."
