U T
ffirajer
NIGHT
EXTRA
NIGHT
EXTRA
KXftmtta
VOL. H. NO. 2G7
PHILADELPHIA, SATURDAY, JULY 22, 1916.
Corinronr, 1016. t rat Pcstto Ltsata Coufrixr.
PRICE OKE CEJTT
"
If -
h
m
i4
V"i
I
;t
w
RUSSIANS PUSH
ATTACKS ALONG
STYR-LIPA LINE
Linsjhgen Retreats to Save
Part of Army From
Envelopment -
MENACE BRODY SECTOR
Boehm-Ermolli's Army May
Have to Fall Back Be
fore Slavs
The menace of a new Russian In
vasion of northeastern Galicln. with
Lemberg as the objective, assumed sub
stantial proportions during the laBt 48
hours as a result of the shattering by
the Russians of the Austro-Hungarian
defense in the region of the confluence
of the Styr and the Lipn. The Russians
crossed the Styr and carried their
Southward advance to the gates of the
town of Berestechk, which lies only two
and a half miles from the Galician bor
der. The reverse was officially admitted
. by the Austro-Hungarian and Berlin
War Offices last night.
Berestechk is of strategical impor
tance to the Russians in their drive
toward the heart of Galicia. The new
advance threatens both Lemberg, the
Galician capital, afcd Brody, halfway
between Lemberg and the Volhynkn
fortress of Dubno. Twenty milct to
the west of Berestechk lies Stojanow,
the terminal of a railway running di
rectly to Lemberg. ' The distance from
Berestechk to Br dy is only 17 & miles.
Thus the Russians will be in a posi
tion to clrivo to the Galician capital
from two directions as soon as they
haVe reached the Stojanow-Lemberg
Railway, due west, and the Dubno-Brody-Lemberg
road, southeast.
A violent Russian offensive is in
progress against Field Marshal von
Hindcnburg's lines on the Dwina,
around Friedrichstadt, southeast of
Riga, and against the positions west of
' Vilna.
.
CZAR'S TROOPS PRESS
UNINTERRUPTED ADVANCE;
TAKE 3IAXY PRISONERS
PETROGRAD, July 22.
General on Llnslngen's Austro-German
army In Volhynla Is again retreating, ac
cording to Information that reached Petro
grad today In advices from the front.
Following six days of steady attacking
along the Llpa River the Germans were
compelled to fall back to avoid having a big
section of the army cut off and captured.
By constant 'battering the Russians
, crossed the Llpa, although the Teutons had
taken up strpng positions along tho river,
which they fortified and defended with
many batteries of Runs of every calibre.
General von Llnslngen's army has the
double task of defending Kovel from the
southeastern side and also Lemberg ,fiom
the northeast. The defeat of the troops
opens the way for a further advance against
the Galician capital from the region of
Lutsk, and may also compel the retreat of
the forces of General von Boehm-Ermolll
from the sector, of Brody.
The Russians have made heavy captures
of troops along the Llpa. particularly In thl
.district where the. Styr flows Into It. Gen
eral Sakarhoff, who Is commanding the Rus
sians In Volhynla, Is giving the harassed
Germans 'and Austro-Hungarlans no rest,
and fighting Is continuous. The great
masses of fresh Russian troops which can
be continually drawn up enables General
Sakarhoff to maintain steady pressure Suf
ficient ammunition has been accumulated
Continued on Tax Two. Column Three
'the weather
This Is the time of year when we meet
strange persons at summer hotels. Many
of them'are In a constant state of. dissatis
faction. They denounce the food, the wait,
ers, the rooms, and find fault with every
one but themselves. They try to create the
Impression that they are doing the hotel
a great favor by stopping there. As a re
sult, eery one around them Js as miser
able as possible.
The strange thine about this species of
professional grouch Is that he sticks to the
hotel despite its alleged shortcomings. lH
usually finds that he Is not crowded with
companions on the front porch It is such
mutinous persons who make us eel hot on
cool days. Their endless harangue seems
to jar the atmosphere. As a rule, even
good weather keeps away from them for
fear of spoiling.
'FORECAST,
For Philadelphia and vicinity Un
settled this afternoon; probably fair to
night and Sunday; moderate tempera
tures, but high humidity; gentle', vari
able winds,
LEXOTIT or.nAV, '
Sun. rl . 4Si m I Moon rl 11:21 p m.
pun Ml 7-3 p m 1 Jtooa souths 6 Oi a., in.
DELAWARE BIVEB TIDE CHANGES."
CHESTNUT STREET
Zjvi waMr 3:04 a. m i JjOw water 022 p jn.
Uuch water 1 17 p, m I Klh wafer 7.57 p in.
TEJIPEBATDBE AT EACH IIOUB.
"grnsi a ill 121 n at al 4f
7ST73 F73 rfsTn I 77T77T771 I
121 II 31 3l 4" A
IOST AND FOPyD
8ATCHEI, Lot si West Phils Station. July
21 phyiicUn black leather satchel, contain-
tmr lurriral Jntrumnt Reward for Inform n.
or return to10M Chejtnut or jliJSpruce it
FEARE. CIRCLE PIN Tueiaay marnlnar July
Ml on flrt floor ot Wanamaker . Finder will
be rewarded. Addreae Co 103. Roaemont. Pa
WATCH Lot lady's (old watch. Hamilton
roue uiuie ipeiu c - . v..jr
Eklmoot B3SJ w nwra
Otto jaTKT Ad,7T
Sapp and Birsky
Hr ' pssH
wm ' ' :H
h - mSL? '"'i vMbsssssH
LjiiMfflK c..vjjtH
635H8sQisBs
S U it -1 'lft fstviTW iM I 111 ii .b -V- J.A..X..S, ...'oAt.
Photo by MarceAU.
THE REV. FRANK S. DOBBINS
REV. FRANK S. DOBBINS
DIES; HEADED BAPTIST
MISSIONS IN FAR EAST
Philadelphian, District Secretary
of Church's American Foreign
Mission Society, Victim '
of Heart Disease
HELD PASTORATES HERE
The Rev. Frank S. Dobbins, a Baptist
clergyman and missionary, who for the
last 21 years has been district secretary
of the American Baptist Foreign Mission
Society with offices In the American Bap
tist Publication Society Building, l"th and
Chestnut streets, died suddenly of heart
disease early today at his residence, 251
West Rlttenhouse street, Germantown.
Mr. Dobbins was born In Philadelphia
61 years ago. He received his early edu
cation at Glrard College and afterward
was graduated from Colgate University,
Hamilton, N. T.
His flrst pastorate was the Calvary Bap
tist Church, where he remained four years.
Immediately afterward he became pastor
of the First Baptist Church, of Allentown,
Pa., and thence came In the same capacity
to the First Baptist Church of Frankford.
Then, at his own desire, he became a mis
sionary, and in that capacity ho went to
Japan, where he remained with great suc
cess in his chosen field for 21 ears.
Because of his extraordinarily clear
undei standing of foreign mission work, he
was recalled to Philadelphia to act as dis
trict secretary of the Baptist Foreign Mis
sion Society, where ho had under his di
rection all the foreign missionary work In
Far Eastern fields. . '
He had occupied this Important position
for a little more than 20 years when he
died.
Dr. Dobbins leaves a .widow and two
sons, one of whom Is a physician in Cin
cinnati and the other in business in Pitts
burgh. Arangements for the funeral have
not yet been icompteted.
GARDNER ELIMINATES
NORMAN H. MAXWELL
Corkran Defeats Cana'n in Semi
r finals on Links at
Shawnee
SHAWNEE ON THE DELAWARE, Pa.,
July 22. .Playing one of the best rounds
of his career, W. H. Gardner, of Pine Valley,
defeated, ,N. H. Maxwell, of Aronlmtnk, 3
up and 2 to play, in the semifinal round
of the invitation golf tdurnament at the
Shawnee Country Club today, Gardner
plated a 74 to his credit, only .a stroke more
than par. In the other semifinal, D. Clarke
Corkran, of Baltimore, defeated H. U
Canan, of Altoona, also by 3 up and 3 to
play.
By the "way Maxwell started out it looked
as if Gardner was in for a trimming. At
the first hole. Maxwell, after reaching the
edge of the green on his second, brought oft
a 20-foot putt for a 3, The' Aronlmlnk
golfer became 3 up wth ft at the second,
but then the former Yale captain started
In to play.
He fafd a fine approach upclose at the
third and getting do.wn the putt won that
hole In 3 to i. They hafved the next two,
but Maxwell became 3 up again with a i at
the sixth. A 4 at the long tilnth which
Gardner won left him 1 down at the turn,
despite the fact that he had gone out in
"38. Maxwell's card showed only 36, a stroke
better than par. -
A beautiful 4 at the 6 6 5-yard 10th en
abled Gardner to square accounts, but he
became I down again at the 12th, when his
tee shot landed ln,a trap.
Gardner then made the next four holts in
3 better than l' and settled the match on
the 16th green when his opponent landed
In the water. The. winner's approach at the
Uth left the ball scarcely a club'p length
from the pin and be sank the putt Playing
i - i engine (omp,iujr . -n...io. .u i... .--.
1 C-lhma oa Ff T. it fat I "t eh kl The loss was trifling j much for him.
Talk on Much-Dispissed Topic of Americans
CRAZED, HE SLAYS
GIRL; SETS FIRE
TO PARK; CAUGHT
;
Wilmington Man, His Love
Spurned, Also Shoots
Second Woman
FIRES SHOT AT A CHILD
Captured and Identified After
Tragedy in Brandywine
Springs Park
WILMINGTON, Del , July 22 Catharine
Bodjaska, 20 years old, was shot and killed
and her body mutilated with a knife ; Mrs.
Ara Nicholas, 80 years old, was shot and
seriously wounded, and Mrs. Nicholas'
daughter Mary, 12 year3 old, was shot at
by a man identified as Samuel Gangas, 25
cars old, who had been Infatuated with
Miss Bodjaska. After the- shooting, whlcU
occurred At 2 o'clock this morning, Gangas
sat fire to the restaurant In Brandywine
Springs Park, destrojlng the cafe, the scenlo
railway and seeral amusement booths. The
loss amounted to seernl thousand dollars.
Gangas was arraigned In City Court.
He was charged with murder, attempted
murder and arson, and held without ball
for a hearing July 31, when it Is expected
the Injured persons will be able to appear
In court.
Gangaa' Infatuation and his desire to get
revenge upon James Nicholas, proprietor of
the park cafe and emplojer of the girl he
killed, Is bellccd to hae led him to tho
crime. Ho had been; employed by Nicholas
and dismissed because Of his conduct to
ward Miss Bodjaska.
The slayer was captured soon after the
tragedy, In his homo in Front street.
IDENTIFIED BY CHILD.
He was Identified by Mary Nicholas, who,
when he had shot at her, fell to the ground
pretending she had been struck. She had
seen the man after he had shot Miss Bod
jaska approach the body with a knife and
mutilate It. He almost seered her right
arm and stabbed and cut her In many
places.
Mrs. Nicholas, her daughter and Miss
Bodjaska worked In the cafe In the park
until late last night. They left about 1:20
o'clock to go to the home of Jabez Banks,
where they lived, on top of tho hill In
the park. They had reached the summit
when their assailant Jumped Into the path
In front of them from behind a tree.
He drew a reolver arid directed the bul
lets at Miss Hodjeska. One struck her In
Continued on Face Tna, Column Pour
SENATE FAILS TO ACT
ON PLEA FOR CASEMENT
AFTER LONG DEBATE
Martine 'Makes Vain Fight for
U. S. Intercession in Behalf
of Convicted Irish
Knight
"BLUNDER," SAYS STONE
Bu a Staff Corrtspondent
WASHINGTON, July 22. After spend
Ing two hours. In debating the resolution
Introduced by Senator James E. Martlne,
of New Jersey, to request clemency In the
case of Sir Roger Casement, comlcted of
treason and sentenced to be hanged, the
Senate today took up the army bill with
out acting on the resolution. The discus
sion of the resolution, resulted from a mo
tion made by Senator Marline to discharge
tho Committee on Foreign Relations, to
which his resolution had been referred,
from further consideration of the measure.
In order that It might be passed immedi
ately. Senator Martlne intends to ask for a
vote on his resolution early next week, and
seyeral Senators announced their intention
to vote for it If the criticisms of the Eng
lish courts found In the preamble are elim
inated. While the Senate discussed the offenses
of which Sir Roger Casement has been
convfcted, his sister, Mrs. Agnes Newman,
of Philadelphia, sat In the gallery, dressed
In black. She listened attentively to every
word dnd discussed the points made 'with
two of her friends who sat with hei, looking
down on the Senators.
Senator Stone, chairman of the Foreign
Relations Committee, said the passage of
the resolution would be a "national blunder"
and would do more harm than good. The
State Department, he said, had been ad
ised that representations such as Senator
Martlne asked would not be welcomed by.
England. Stone said the language of the
resolutions referring to Casement's trial
a j ''hasty'1 and as a "so-called trial" would
be offensive.
'Ms own Idea," said Senator Nelson, of
Minnesota, "Is that It we don't interfere
England will commute the sentence."
Senator Williams, of Mississippi, said
England would naturally resent any outside
interference with its court of Justice.
Modification of the resolution so it merely
would ask for clemency for rlsh prisoners
Vlthout mentioning Casement's name was
suggested by Senator Phelan, of California.
He said there were numerous precedents of
efforts by the United States Go eminent to
obtain clemency for political prisoners.
Casement, Senator Martlne said, fcad been
convicted under " moss-grown' law of
England, a,nd a word from the United
States, he said, might arise, the world In
behalf of Casement
Autotruck Blazes; Damage Slight
An autotruck of the Cudahy Company,
with a branch at 9th street and Glrard ave
nue, backfired n front ot 113,2 German
towjv avenue this morning Membora of
Engine Company no. iinuincq me
LIGHTNING STUNS
WOMAN AS FLASH
BLASTS MANHOLE
Paralytic Dazed in Severe
Early-Morning Electric
Storm
SEWER GAS SET AFIRE
Clear Weather ProbaTule for To
morrow, With Shower This
Afternoon
Hourly Temperatures
Today Ttteray
6 a. m .....72 76 ,
7 a. m ;... 73 76
8 a. rrr . . . 74 76
0 a. m 73 78
10 a. m 73 78
11 a. m .'.75 78
Noon 77 73
1 p. m 77 78
2 p. m 77 78
3 p. m 77 78
4 p. m 78
5 p. m 78
A paralyzed woman was rendered un
conscious ' during the storm early today
when lightning struck a trolley pole at 4th
nnd Carpenter streets. The flash started a
flro which caused an explosion In a manhole.
Another woman, with whom tho victim
was conerstng, was dazed, and her hus
band was burned by sparks which flew Into
his store.
Tha accident occurred about 9 o'clock
this morning, during a terrific lightning
storm which lasted about 00 minutes The
disturbance caused a slight reduction In
temperature.
The paralytic Is Mrs Yetta. Goldstein,
Of 339 Carpenter street. Next to her resi
dence, at the northeast corner of 4tn and
Carpenter streets, Is the tobacco store of
Abe Goldstein. The two families are not
related.
Mrs. YctU Goldstein was talking to the
wife of the store proprietor, beneath the
awning which covert, thn shop pavement
A flash of llghtnlr.s danced before their
eyes and then encircled On. post.
EXPLOSION t.N MANHOLE.
Flames shot from thj base of the pole
and the electricity was communicated to a
manhole nearby. Gas in the hole was
Ignited and a second report was heard,
this time from the explosion.
The Iron lid flew Into the air, falling to
the ground with such force that It broke
Into bits. Fire was meanwhile belching
Continued on raze To, Column Sli
MOTHER DEAD, CHILD
DYING FROM BURNS
Father Watches Continuously at
Bedside1 of Infant, Baxely Alive
After Blaze in Home
MRS. MARGINA DELLA CASA
Mortally burned while she held her
10-months-old baby in her arms.
Morris Delia Casa, of Till Lincoln ave
nue, lay today near a cot In the children's
ward Qf 'he University Hospital keeping
a igll oer ,his 10-months-old Infant.
Doctors don't expect the baby to live
through the day. Yesterday, Delia Casa's
20-year-old wife died In the sam hospital.
Her death was due to burns suffered when
a gasoline stove In the kitchen of her home
overturned and st fire to her dress. The
infant was In Its mothers' arms when the
accident occurred
Mother and baby were hurried to the hos
pital In the same patrol. Mrs. Delia Casa's
last words before lapsing Into unconscious
ness, was a plea to the doctors and nurses
at the hospital to be' kind to her baby or
'my opb baby" as she expressed It The
death of Mrs. Delia Casa followed soon
after she reached the hospital. The father
knew nothing of the tragedy until he
reached his hone early last evening Out
side of his home he found a crowd ot
women and children. They were speaking
In low tones .gome one told him all abut
ft He then hurried to the hospital When
ha reached the hospital he appeared to be
in a daze -
"My wife and my baby my baby!"
Delia Casa, almost shrieked
Delia Casa waa led up to the ward where
his wife. was. She no longer was conscious.
He remained around her cot for a while
and then walked away He asked to be
led to the ward where his baby w.s
Daylight today found Delia Casa stll at
the baby's cot He remarked several times
that the baby's hair and eyes resembled
that of his wife. Hs started to say some
thing else but couldn't 'The grief was too
s on Page
QUICK
, , AMERICAN LEAGUE
DETROIT, 1st g.... 2 O O O O 1 O.
BOSTON 1 1 OOOOO
ST. LOUIS, 1st g..,.
NEW YORK.
NATIONAL LEAGUE
BROOKLYN, 1st g.. 2
PITTSBURGH... '..0
JOHN PITCAIRN AND W. V: PETTtT DEAD
John Pltcalrn, on oT tho lenders of tho Swedenboiginn colony
at Bryn Athyn, died today at his home. "Word was also reoelved of
He death of 'William Vaughn Tettlt,, who was killed In action In.
France during the latter part of June. He was the son of the late
Silas "W. Pettit, a widely lenown lawyer.
SPANNELL, ARMY MAN'S SLAYER, AT EL PASO
EL PASO, Tex., July 22. Apparently dazed nnd badly fright
ened, Harry J. Spannell, charged with the minder of his wife and
Lieutenant Colonel M. C. Butler, at Alpine, was brought here today
by Sheriff Walton, of Brewester County. Spannell still refused to dis
cuss his reasons for shooting Colonel Butler after inviting him ou an
automobile ride.
ITALY DENIES DEFEAT BY TURKS
LONDON", July 22. The Italian .Ambassador, upon instructions from his Govern
ment has issurd a statement saying that the Turkish lalm'of a victory over Italian
forces i Misrata is false. Tho Turkish statement that Italian troops and guns were
captured Is without foundation, it was said.
GERMANS RELEASE CAPTURED BRITISH STEAMSHIP
BERLIN, July 22. German authorities have ordered the release of the British
steamship Adam, captured" by a German torpedoboat, since Investigation disclosed
the vessel was captured within Swedish territorial waters. On the other hand, a
telegram from 'Sweden states that a itusstan submarine, operating ln'Bottlah Bay,
oft Ratan and within Swedish territorial waters, fired a torpedo p.t the German
steamship Kibe.
IRISH SITUATION UP AS BRITISH CABINET MEETS
LONDON, July 22. There vas a meeting of the Cabinet today to consider
matters of the utmost importance. It is believed that the Irish situation and' the
vote of credit to bo moved In Commons on Monday were discussed.' John Redmond
presided at the meeting of tho Irish party this afternoon in Parliament building.
The proceedings were privnte.
MORE PAY AVERTS STRIKE OF 900 EMPLOYES
POTTSVILLE. Pa., July 22. Tho Eastern Steel Company, of this city, has
averted a strike by granting its 900 employes a 10 per cent, increase in wages. The
order becomes effective at once. Tho emploves claimed they were much underpaid,
as compared to mills at Philadelphia and Reading.
GERMAN DICTATOR ADMITS FOOD SHORTAGE
AMSTERDAM. July 22. the Berliner Tageblatt eays that at a recent con
ference at Darmstadt with regard to the food situation, Adolph T. von Batockl,
president of the German Food Regulation Board, frankly admitted there was a
shortage of foodstuffs, especially In towns, -which it was impossible to overcome.
$2284 MORE FOR RELIEF. OF SOLDIERS' FAMILIES
Contributions of $22S4 to the Citizens Soldiers. Aid Committee for the relief
of dependents of the Philadelphia soldiers at the Mexican border were received
yesterday, making a total of $15,756.10 received to date. Of the receipts 55756.05
has been expended. A letter was received from Majgr General William G. Price,
Jr., appealing for more men to fill up the ranks of the guard to war strength,
SEVEN HURT IN KENVIL POWDER FLARE
MORRISTOWN, X J- July 22. Seven men who had been injured in a powder
flare-up at Kenvll, N. J , last night, were brought hero today for medical treatment.
One of them is in a serious condition.
SHIP FROM BALTIMORE ASHORE OFF JAPAN
YOKOHAMA. July 22. The British steamship Penrith Castle, bound from Balti
more to Vladivostok, ran ashore In a heavy fog today near the Japanese town ot
Muroran. Several vessels have gone to her assistance. The' Penrith Castle dis
places 3663 tons. Its home port Is Liverpool.
-i
BRITISH SHIP FALLS VICTIM TO U-BOAT
LONDON, July 22. The British steamship Wolf. 2143 tons, has been sunk.
(The Wolf probably waa destroyed by a German submarine in the North Sea, as
the vessel was in the Tyne on June 13.)
300,000 WILL ATTEND PUBLIC SCHOOLS NEXT TERM
The attendance at the public schools next term will pass the 300,000 mark for
the first time In the history of the city. This fact was established by the school
census Just completed under the direction of Henry J, Gideon, head of the Bureau
of Compulsory Education. There will be at least 3000 more children in the schools
this year.
ii ii .i..pi.i i v i ' . i -
WAR TO BE DECIDED IN WEST, SAYS HAIG
PAPSs, July 22. ''The supreme decision of the war will take place on the
Western battlefield," says General Sir Douglas Halg, Commander.ln-Chlef of Aha
British army, in a statement printed In the Matin today. The statemept adds:
"We must impose a worthy peace, for we shall have paid the price tarjj,,"
, rr
SUBMARINES SUNK BY AUSTIUANS IN ADRIATIC
BERLIN. July 2? The destruction in the northern Adriatic on July IB of two
submarined, one of them Italian, by Austrian torpedoboats, is announced lrr an
official communication received here from Vienna
PAOLI AUTOMOBILISTS FINED BY THE MAIL ROUTE
v A plan of fining automoblllsts by mail for alleged traffic regulations has been
instituted by Magistrate Michael V. Harrlgan, of PaolJ. Hundreds of automobUUts
have received letters from the Magistrate adyislng then) tciWnd J3 50 at once and
Informing them that a they are first offenders be "haa remitted the flne" and
wants only the costs amounting to $3.50. J. H. Weeks, president of the Delaware
County Automobile Club, ia advising the meh not to notice the letters from tho
Magistrate.
4 of Today's Amusement Section $1
NEWS
Postponed Rain.
-,. ' ,
HOUSE OWNERS
IN TENDERLOIN
GET SUMMONS
Must Answer Charge of
Renting Properties for
Illegal Purposes
NEW -VICE SQUAD LEADER
Vistar Succeeds Charles Lea,
Suspended Net Out for
Straw-Baif'Men
JESSE WISTAR
Appointed head of vice squad in
place of Charles Lcc.
Efforts to fix the responsibility for vice
In tho Tenderloin were begun this after
noon, when process servers wereSent to sub
poena Owners of buildings who violated the
act of 1913 by renting their properties for
disorderly purposes. Efforts will also be
made to find the professional bondsmen or
straw-ball experts who have been offering
properties upon which they had no claim as
security when going the bail of offenders
In the vice section.
This action and the appointment of De
tective Jesse TVIstar as head of the vice
squad are tr)e two latest developments In
the vice Investigation.
Wlstar succeeds Charles Le,e who was
suspended wth other police officials fol
lowing last Saturday night's rald.vThe neir
head of the vice equad has had considerable
experience In running down gambling.
When attached to the 12th and Pine streets
station he took a prominent part In break
ing up a 'well-esfapllshed gang of gamblers
of all kinds In the 8th Ward.
In announcing i the appointment of Wis
tar, Captain of Detectives James Tate, Jr..
said he would be the right man for tha
place "Wlstar will be held responsible for
vice conditions generally. He will have
tho co-operation of the Detective Bureau
In every way. Captain Tate said, and will
receive the help ,of as many men as ha
desires to "clean up the city."
AVlstar was appointed a policeman In
1893. He was made an acting detective In
1908, a detective In 1912 and began work
at City Hall In that year.
It was decided today that the Grand
Jury would begtrt Its Investigation of con
ditions on Monday.
U. S. ORDERS PROBE
-OF OFFICER'S KILLING
If Reported Innocence Is Proved',
Butler's WidoY Will Get
Pension
ssssssshk nW!r SHIllllH
SAN ANTONIO, Tex., July 2!. Colonel
J. A. Gaston was Instructed by tho Southern
Department today to go to Alpine from
his headquarters at Slarfa to Investigate the
shooting ot lieutenant Colonel M C. Butler
Gaston will decide whether Butler was
killed In the "line of duty," which will
determine whether his widow will get a
pension. If Butler Is shown to have had
a moral right to be with Mrs. Spannell he
will be considered to have been shot while
in the "line ot duty." The moral eUtus
of the cavje, from a. military standpoint,
rests on O leton's report
Colonel J. E. Muchert, of the th Texi
Infantry, made the following detailed report
of the shooting: '
"Colonel Butler was Bitting with other of
fleers, citizens and roe In front of the hotel
about 8j45 p rn. July 20. when Mr and
Mrs. Spannell drole up In their car. Span
nell -called Colonel Butler to the car. reached
back and opened the rear door and asked
Colonel Butler to take the eea.t with Mrs.
Spannell. Colonel Butler did so and Span
nell Immediately drove off around the corner
of the hotel
"After the c?r had proceeded about 600
yards into the residence part or town Spin
pel shot and killed both Colonel Butler and
Sirs. Spannell. firing sevrral shot into each,
He then waived, to the fall and surrendered
to. the Sheriff.
"Just how the killing was done cannot
ba positively stated, as there, are no
witnesses "
"Colonel and Mrs, ButUr livjd at the
Hotel Holland, and both .stss-jciated freely
with Mr and Mrs. Spannell. Spannejl U
proprietor of the hotel Both, couplts jfoelc
frequent drives In the Spannell car It) 4h ..
evening"
Spaunell seemed to be of an estremeiy
jealous deposition, Jt stated that s r
frequently had disagreement wjtb, hi "wtfe.
who was very bef utlfuL The- general opin
ion is that iir. SpapneU Rejpw gave 1W
husband causa for Jealousy. And the usMk
mous opinion Is that Colonel Butler w V
decent of aywTffiay
Evening Ledger
ii
