OHIO STATE
UNIVERSITY
JUt SolUld
LIBRARY
INDEPENDENT
NON-PARTISAN
Official Organ of the Building Trades Council of Cincinnati and Vicinity
Vol. IV. No. 14
CINCINNATI, OHIO, JULY 22, 1916
One Dollar a Year
Building Trades Council
Re -Nominates Present Officers: Cullen for President, Fischer for Vice-President, Hock for
Business Agent and Nolde for Treasurer. Election Next Thursday Night Banquet the
Following Thursday Night President Cullen Again Reminds the Members That They
Must Demand the Working Card From Every Man On the Job.
The regular meeting of the Building
Trades Council was called to order with
President Jos. A. Cullen in the chair.
Minutes of the previous meeting were
read and adopted.
The Chair announced that nomina
tions for officers was the next or
der of business. The following nomi
nations were made unanimously: For
president, Jos. A. Cullen; vice-president,
Phil Fischer ; recording secretary and
business agent, Fred Hock; financial
secretary-treasurer, Jos. Xolde; con
ductor, James Mcllalc; scrgcant-at-arms,
Geo. Koch.
The following were nominated for
trustees, three to be elected: Ed Con
vers, Phil Gasdorf, Tlios. Anderson,
Harry Dorsey, Geo, Vogcl.
Th's means that all the old officers
will serve another term, and that the
members arc satisfied with the excellent
administration of the past year.
A communication was read from the
Building Trades Department of the
Trades and Labor Assembly of Kenton
and Campbell Counties requesting that
the -Masonic Temple of Covington, Ky.,
be put on the unfair list by the Council.
Upon motion, the matter was referred
td the Board of Business Agents.
ittisirjcss-iVgrjit Hock' read -his regular'
weekly' 'report, which" was concurred in.
Business Agent Schuld of the Butch
er Workers was graittcd the floor for
five minutes. Brother Schuld explained
the butcher lockout and the efforts be
ing made to win, the fight. His request
for assistance was, upon motion, re
ferred to each local for action.
All trades reported business good.
The minutes of the meeting of the
Board of 'Business Agents was read and
concurred in.
I he Chair announced that the elec
tion of officers would take place next
Thursday and urged all the members
to be present.
He also called their attention to the
fact that they must demand the work
ing card from every new; man who
comes on a job.
There being no further business be
fore the Council, it adjourned, to meet
next Thursday night.
KOUIt HUXIMtlCI) .MUX
Rob't Z. Buchwalter
Candidate for Common Pleas Judge, Republican Primar
ies, August 8, 1916. Always Friendly to Organized
Labor and Desires Your Support.
$&&&&&i$$
JOSEPH A. CULLEN
Re-nominated For President of Building Trades Conncil.
Strike .in Ohio Factory Alter Dis
pute With Company.
Alliance, Ohio, July SO The drop
forging plant of the Transite-Williams
Company, where 1,200 men arc employ
ed, is idle tonight as a result of a strike
and a lockout late today.
The men allege the company dis
charged Thomas Williams for passing
a paper through the shops asking non
union men to join the union. Accord
ing to the men the company refused to
reinstate Williams. About 400 men quit
work.
F. E. Dussell, treasurer of the com
pany said : "We have had some trouble
and the plant is idle, but that is all I
can say at this time." O. I' Transitc,
general manager, is out of the city.
Fi:ni:i:Aii mkihatiox
Likely in Cloak .Strike us ISesult of
Appeal.
Washington, July so. Settlement of
the strike of cloakmakcrs in New York
City, which has been in progress foi
ls weeks, probably will be attempted by
the Federal Bureau of Conciliation.
A request for appointment of media
tors was referred by President Wilson
today to the Departments of Commerce
and Labor, which have jurisdiction, and
will be considered tomorrow when Sec
retary Wilson, of the Labor Depart
ment, returns to the capital. The dispo
sition of officials is to send mediators
whenever interested persons request it.
The appeal to President Wilson was
signed by Henry Morgenthau, Cleveland
II. Dodge, A. Barton Hepburn and other
Xew York men and declared the strike
threatened to curtail seriously the na
tion's supply of women's clothing.
BASIS FOR STRIKE AGREEMENT
Iteaehed IJy Conferees Representing
(iiirnieiit Workers anil Em
ployers, 'Tis Iteportecl,
New York, July 20. A basis for an
agreement between the garment work
ers and their employers was reported to
have been reached this afternoon, which
representatives of both- sides predicted
would bring to an end the strike and
lock-out of 00,000 workers that has tied
up the industry for several months with
nation-wide effect.
Representatives of the manufacturers
agreed to a six-pcr-ccnt increase ifi
wages, and the union representatives
waived their right to have a representa
tive on the committee fixing the price
for piecework. An agreement also' was
.reached concerning the number of hours
of labor a week.
The concessions were made at a seven-hour
conference between representa
tives of both sides. Ope of the chief
questions at issue that concerning the
status of the sub-contractor was not
settled.
JiATXimV WOISKICKS (JAIX.
IIAV1-3 MAXY DUTIKS. ",
Xew York. At the federal arbitra
tion board's meeting of the wage dis
pute between railroad telegraphers and
signal operators, and the Xew York
Central and West Shore lines, it was
stated that llagmcn were paid $? to $10
a month and since they were abolished
tower men have to do their work and
get no extra pay. The Order of Kail
road Telegraphers is conducting the em
ployes' case and the arbitration board
was asked to rule that signal tower men
be relieved of care of crossings. The
union telegraphers cited cases where the
station agent-operator gets $00 a month
for a dozen or more duties, including
telegraphing, keeping the books, selling
tickets and handling baggage. Other
station agent-operators have additional
duties, such as attending to the steam
or gasoline pumps of water tanks for
Troy, N. Y. Secretary Harry L. Mor
rison, of the Laundry Workers' Inter
national union, reports that Oskaloosa
(Iowa) laundry workers have, secured a
new agreement with all demands granted.
An eight-hour day with wage increases
have been secured at Globe and Miami,
Arizona, and unions have been formed
at Baltimore, Md and Oakland, Cal.,
since the last report.
COOKS AXI AVAITKUS WIX.
Xo member of the Hamilton County
Bar enjoys a greater degree of respect,
both as a man and a lawyer, than
Robert Z. Buchwalter. Because of his
sterling qualities and his pre-eminent
qualifications for the position, he has
received the endorsement of the Re
publican Executive Committee to be
come the Republican candidate ' for
Judge of the Court of Common Pleas
of Hamilton County, Ohio. In this, it
may be truthfully said that 'it is a case
of the office seeking the man, rather
than the man seeking the office. Mr.
H''liV;t'
. v i r,i7'"vrvr.'".'ji ti." -' iIT-. .-1
tut practitioner, ana, in audition to lus
broad legal experience, ,hc has for some
years past been a mcmbdrjD.f he Board
of Deputy Supervisors ''and Inspectors
of Election, which, has had charge of
the vast election machinery of the Gity
of Cincinnati and all of Hamilton
County. Whcthcr-i serving; as President
of this Board or- as a member of it, or
in his chosen vo:at:on as an attorney-at-law,
Mr. Buchwalter has always ex
hibited such tact and ability as to invite
the confidence and commendation of the
public and his clients.
In these days of changing social and
industrial conditions, the bench is in
need of men whose tact, patience, indus
try and ability arc such as may he able
to cope with the novel questions of law
which are constantly arising. Xo one
who knows Mr. Buchwalter can have
1 r2Bb. feT-SSlM
MM 111
Kolieit Ziiiiliieiinim Ituclnvalter.
For Common' l'lcusSriirtge, Hepub-
I lean Primaries, August 8, 1916.
any doubt of his ability to measure up
to all of the requirements of the ex
alted and responsible position for which
he has been publicly endorsed, and to
which all who know him fondly hope
that he will be elected.
Mr. Buchwalter was born and reared
in Cincinnati, and his father, Morris L.
Buchwalter, served for many years as
Judge of the Court of Common Pleas
with great distinction.
El Paso, Texas. Cooks and Waiters'
union has established the eight-hour day
in the higher class restaurants in this
city. Short strikes by these thorough
ly organized workers were first neces
sary. Tulsa, Okla. The recently organized
Cooks and Waiters' union J)as won its
strike against restaurant proprietors, who
are now signing the wage scale of this
local.
KTKIKU TO VKOTFCT JilFK.
Emporium, Pa. Machinists and pipe
fitters employed by the Aetna Explosive
company struck because the company in
sisted that they do repair work in dry
ing houses while the houses were filled
with powder. An explosion occurred
tile first of the ivtonth which destroyed
the lives of 13 workers. Since then prac
tically every employe of the dying de
partment has quit work because of the
company's disregard for "safety first."
locomotives.
MACIIIXISTS WIX.
San Francisco. The Labor Council
has been advised that the navy depart
ment has communicated with official of
the Mare island navy yard with a view
of placing all machinists employed there
on a $4 basis. These workers have been
demanding that the government establish
the same rate paid by private einploy-
FRED HOCK
Re-nominated For Recording Secretary and 3usiness Agent of
Building Trades Council.
feggSEjjfegeal'Bl
