SO SAY VJE tnot"m ln democracy is devoted to the rule of the people, love
. . . of itf ideals, and pride in those achievement! which realize its' com
mon aspirations and illustrate the progress made possible by equality of rights. It is the patriot
ism whose ardor is kindled by the keen sense of human brotherhood, and that counts as traitors
all those who take up against the state the arms of injustice or seek to turn to selfish uses the
agencies designed to protect the common interest. The matter of primary importance is fidelity
to the fundamental latcs of our institutions, and the endeavor to destrot those influences, on whatever
befialf exerted, which art hostile to free government itself.' Charles Evans Hughes.
This It Numbtr 274
NAG
Coigiress" Asked to Investigate Papal.
&
1HEMB
it?
System
IF YOU WISH TIIEJIIOOF, THEN READ
Facts CcBcen&j tit b&taeat of Rome Presented U Congress and
Printed ta this Pist Bfcf rYtsentitka ef Evidence to Support
tht Specific Charles tfbei tie American PtopU Uaderstiod
asd Act, Congress VHO Kara to Act
AS TO PAPAL SOVEREIGNTY
tmtr Mb It 1 4. to
l.lMH )nnil TIm BTMrta i
Hie Holy Fttlier U probably letter informed about the pros
pects of peace thin anyone elM in the world just now; he baa prob
ably rioter and certainly more universal knowledge than anyone else of
the views of the different aides. But even he ran hare no idea at
present an to how exactly this war ii going to finish and what form
the Trace Conference," which people apeak of ao glibly, is going to
take. Of his right w sovereign to take part witk elktr heads of
states tkere can be no qutMlion; of the advantage to the world of his
being represented the only impartial and authoritative representa
tive of right and justice there can be no question. But there has
been no official utterance aa yet making either claim; it is always
possible that a "conference" of some sort or other may take plae
after the war at which the Holy See will not be represented, at which
the position of the papacy will not be mentioned. These notes are writ
ten to put forward precautionary suggestion made to the writer a
short time ago by someone in Rome worth listening toin that
eventuality.
It is well to be on guard. Catholics Inow well the rope's sover
eignty (even the "Law of Guarantees" explicit? acknowledges it)
a sovereignty that transcends, in fact, that of other sovereigns on
earth; and they know well the rights that should be and the wrongs
that are, in the present position I the papacy.
Whatever line the IToly Father himself may take in the par
ticular eventa of the moment, in whatever particular way such cir
cumstances msy shape themselves no difference whatever ran be
made to the fundamentals. "Circumstancea alter rases." but no
transient circumstances can alter the "rase" of the Holy See in the
old "Question," and it is well that Catholics should be ready, fore
warned to rebut my specious pleas that may be put forward,
prompted by "rirrurostance," of the evolution of which no one ran
at present form any conjecture but which may be used as arguments
against the rights of the Holy See.
Formal Demand that the Congress of the United States In
vestigate the Political Activities of the Roman Catholic
Hierarchy in the United States Made by the Free
Press Defense League Every Liberty-Loving Citizen
and Every Patriotic Organization and Newspaper
in the Land Will be Asked to Join in the
Greatest Crusade of Modern Times
Is the pope of Borne a foreign
sovereign, claiming allegiance in I
temporal as well as spiritual mat
ters throughout the' world, or is he
not? Read the definite statement
on that subject which appears just
nl)ove this and is reprinted from
the Tahiti of Brooklyn, N. Yn
bit official organ of the Roman Cath
olic church. J
Tht PnbUo School
Is the papal system opposed to
our public schools, and does that
system seek to destroy those schools,
or does it not? Let Rome answar
from the pages of its own literature,
from the booklet entitled "Rights
vt Our Little Ones or First Frin-
4 riples on Education" by James
Conway S. J. of Csnisius College,
, Buffalo, N. Y., and published by
t lienziger Bros, of New York, Cin-
cinnati. and Chicago "Printers to
'. the Holy Apostolic See." Our quo
' tstions are from the third edition
of tliat booklet printed in 1905r
On rage 50 is the following:
' Catholic parents cannot, in con
science, eend their children to
'' American public schools, except for
1 very grave reasons approved by the
ecclesiastical authorities." On page
30 we read : "The state cannot just
ly enforce compulsory education,
; even in the cast of utter illiteracy,
. . as long as the essential physical
' and moral education are suflkicnt
. ly provided for."
On pajL, 27 the Jesuit author of
this official Roman Catholic dcclar
' ation concerning education says:
; "While irtate education removes il
literacy and puts a limited amount
of knowledge within reach of all,
it cannot be taid to have a beneficial
influence on civilization in general."
, Beginning on page 25, "we read:
"This system of state or public edu
' cation naturally results in the most
f serious moral, social, and religious
- evils." And note this sweeping
- declaration on page -24: "Eauca-
fie does not" Its within the scope
t, of cicil authority, whersfort the
state cannot, witkoul violating kigk
i er and kolier riakts. usurp Iks riakt
and discharge the duty of educating
ike young."
This is all the space we can giva
t this time to the Roman Catholic
preachments against public educa-
tion from this book; but whst is
, given should be sufficient to ahow
that the papal system is absolutely
' and irreconcilably hostile to the
; public school. If in doubt as to the
. conclusion, get the book from the
publishers mentioned and read it
yourself. The book as a atalfi
1
is far more conclusive in retabluh
ing our contention than the ex
cerpts quoted.
Freedom of the Press
Is the papal system opposed to a
free press, and does it seek to de
stroy the right of freely expressing
printed opinions, or is the state
ment, that it is and does, unwar
ranted? The answer to that ques
tion ia to be found and is clearly
stated in the bills introduced in
congress by those Roman Catholic
congressmen, Fitzgerald and Galli
van, and supported by the Ameri
can Federation of Catholic Socie
ties, the papal press and Romish
clergy without exception.
Space is too limited to reprint
them in full ; but The Mknack has
heretofore published their contents
and called attention to the effect t f
such legislation. The fact that they
seek to make a censor of the press
out of the postmaster-general is
sufficient to establish our conten
tion. A censored press is not a
free press. The press can remain
free though subject to laws regular
ly enacted and placed in the statute
books to be equally enforced in all
cases; but the press cannot enjoy
any degree of just freedom when
its existence is subject to the whim
of an appointed censor. Equality
bifore the low protects press and
people at tke same time. Subjec
tion to the caprice of a censor,
whom the people do not elect, would
place every publisher at the mercy
cf the postmaster-general who
could be a despot if he desired and
could destroy publishers and publi
cations without process of late,
trial by fury, or without benefit of
any of Ike safeguards provided to
insure impartial k earing and fair
trial of alleged offenders.
Free Speech and Assembly
Ia the papal system opposed to
free speech and public assembly,
and does it seek- to destroy the right
of the people to those privileges,
or does it not? This question is
answered with sufficient conclusive
ness by the many recent assaults
upon . Protestant clergymen and
public speakers who dare take posi
tions and make statements of fact
uncomplimentary to the papacy.
To prevent freedom of speech and
assembly, the Romish laity and
Knights of Columbus hive resorted
in recent years to mobbings and
murders which are familiar to the
informed; and specific mention
would be superfluous.
But, to show that this practice
is in keeping with the spirit of the
4 JCoatiJuw4 a Pag S, Colussa I)
On Thursday, July 13, Hon C. A. Lindbcrch, member of Congress from 6th Dis
nct of Minnesota, introduced for the Free Press Defense Leaeue the following resolution
at the request of Judge Gilbert O. Nations, vice president of the League.
This resolution is a public paper of historic importance embodying as it does, the
profound conviction of many millions of earnest, intelligent and patriotic American citi
zens. It aims to bring to light the truth concerning the deadly prejudice against our
liberal democracy which masquerading under the cloak of ecclesiasticism would subvert
free institutions. '
It will mark the opening of a mighty campaign for the restoration and preservation
of vital freedom as voiced ia our fundamental law and the bulwarks of free institutions
which have given America her noble eminence in the family of nations of
the Editoruil Board.
RESOLUTION
HOUSE JOINT RESOLUTION, IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES; Mr. Lind
bergh introduced the following Resolution, which was referred to the Committee on Roles and
ordered to be printed.
JOINT RESOLUTION Whereas there are many economic problems that require the ac
tion of Congress and the concerted action cf all the patriotic people with Congress, for their
solution favorable to the public, which to the great loss of the people hare remained ln a state
of uncertainty because of disputes among the psople upon other matters, and:
WHEREAS, one of the most Important of the collateral matters that diverts the people
from sufficiently considering the economic needs 'if the claim of The Free Press Defense
League, a Kansas organization with affiliations in all parts of the country involving a very
large following, and:
WHEREAS, The Free Press Defense League, and similar organisations and their follow
ing represent that:
I The pope of Rome is a foreign sovereign, claiming allegiance in temporal as well as
spiritual matters throughout the world.
n The papal system of which the pope is the head is opposed to, and seeks to destroy
our free institutions, to-wit:
(a) Our public schools,
(b) The free prees,
(c) The right of free speech and publio assembly,
(d) The right of freedom of thought ln matters of conscience,
(e) The principle of separation of church and state.
HI The papal system of America which consists of the Roman Catholic cardinals, bish
ops, priests, the Jesuits, Knights of Columbus, Federation of Catholic Societies, the Ancient
Order of Hibernians, and other Roman Catholic societies together with the Roman Catholic
press, seeks to substitute for our democratic system of government, the monarchlal or papal
system.
IV The Roman Catholic laity in the United States of America are taught, influenced,
and commanded by some of those in authority, to yield Implicit obedience to the teaching of
the popes of Rome and to blindly obey their orders and decrees, even though said orders and
decrees conflict with the Constitution of the United States of America.
V The Roman Catholic organization in America is perniciously active in politics, and
although having but few voters as compared with the whole body of electors, it manages by
threats, intimidation, blackmail, and by coercion of the press, to secure an undue proportion
of the elective and especially appointive offices throughout the country and these offices when
filled with Roman Catholics are used to further the plan of making America dominantly Ro
man Catholic.
VI In carrying out the conspiracy to bring the United States of America under the
complete domination of the pope of Rome, the Roman Catholic hierarchy, aided by the Ro
man Catholic politicians and the Roman Catholic press, has inspired a portion of the Roman
Catholic laity to resort to threats, to intimidation, to the boycott, to assault and to riots.
VII The Roman Catholic hierarchy is now and hu been for more than a year last past,
actively engaged within the territory of the United States of America in fomenting and incit
ing revolution in the Republio of Mexico and attempting to bring about a state of war be
tween the Republio of Mexico and the United States, and:
WHEREAS, The said claims on the part of the said Free Press Defense League and
similar organizations, have been and now are being sown broadcast over the country and
both sides to the controversy are causing to be sent to members of Congress great numbers
of allegations and assertions and counter allegations and denials upon the said various claims,
and:
WHEREAS, The said controversy foments trouble and interferes with the unprejudiced
action of millions of electors in the United States and thereby interferes with a natural con
sistent and impartial administration of government in the interests of all the people, and:
WheREAS, A true and impartial investigation and a report thereon by a properly con
stituted public committee would take these controversies out of polities and stop the attempts
to improperly influence the acta of public officials.
NOW, THEREFORE, EE IT RESOLVED BY THE SENATE AND HOUSE OF REP
RESENTATTVES OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA ASSEMBLED; That a joint
committee of the Senate and House be appointed to make inquiry into the various represen
tations herein before referred to, and:
THAT SAID COMMITTEE shall have power to employ clerks and stenographers and
to compel the attendance of persons and the production of papers, books, documents, and
records and to examine witnesses under oath, that said committee shall have power to sit any
where that it may deem necessary to secure all Ue facts to complete its inquiry and shall re.
port the testimony to Congress, y
THE LEAGUE GETS DOWN TO BUSINESS
VY31 tht Roman Catholic Kertaby and tin Rooui CithaSe fms Ct-
tinoe to Brand tie Patriots cf tbis Katioi tt liars as
Bigots, or W31 They Submit the Issues t a Court if
Inquiry and Accept tht Results?
by ma a via aaowa
32392
Political optimism is one of the
vicej cf the American people. There
is a popular faith that "God takes
care of children, fools and the
United States." We deem ourselves
a chosen people, and incline to the
belief that the Almighty elands
pledged to our tocuntv, safety and
lew years probably not one in a
hundred of our population has ever
questioned the security ox our fu
ture. Such optimism is as senseless
as pessimism is faithlcsa. The one
is as foolish as the other is wicked.
Thoughtful men of the present
dsy see perils on our national hori
son. Our arrument is concerned
not with all of them, but only with
those which appear roost threaten
ing and which, if not met and con
quered, will bring disaster and ul
timate ruin.
For over five years Tin Menace
hss been making certain, specific
charges against the Roman Catholic
hierarchy, publishing these facts
and charges to the world and, aa a
result, has brought to its assistance
in thia crusado hundreds of thou
sands of patriotic citiiens of the na
tion, and the combined strength of
countless patriotic orders, secret so
cieties and religious and scmi-re-l.gious
bodies.
There are thow who are disposed
to attribute any fear of Roman
Catholicism in the United States to
bigotry'br childishness. Such see
nothiug in the character or attitude
of the organization that is hostile
to our free institutions, or find
nothing portentous in its growth,
therefore a bold and candid state-j
ment of our claims is nei'essary, a
refutation by Kome, if it can be
edduced, will be welcomed, and a I
thorough, sei. ching investigation of
our claims by the higheKt court of
inquiry in the land is earnestly
courted.
Our basic contention is that Ro
man Catholics bear allegiance to a
foreign potentate and are, to all in
tents and purposes, aliens who
should be happy and content in the
simple prerogatives of citizenship,
muoh less in the privilege of wag
ing war on the basic principles of
our government and our free, demo
cratic institutions.
The Declaration of Independence
teaches popular sovereignty. It says
that "governments derive their
just powers from the consent of the
governed." ROMAN CATHOLIC
DOCTRINE INVESTS THE
POPE WITH SUPREME SOV
EREIGNTY. The Canon lawa of
the church are above the state and
are binding on all Catholics every
where and in all lands.
The revised statutes of the United
States declare, "The alien seeking
citizenship must make oath to re
nounce forever all allegiance and
fidelity to any foreign prince, po
tentate, state or sovereignty, in par
ticular that to which he has beon
subject" The Roman Catholic
profession of faith, having the sanc
tion of the council which met at
Baltimore in 1834. contains the fol
lowing oath of allegiance to the
pope: "And I pledge and swear
true obedience to the Roman pon
tiff, vicar of Jesus Christ, and suc
cessor of tha blessed Teter, prince
of the apostles."
While Roman Catholics are pro
fuse in their denials of allegiance
to the pope to the detriment of
their citizenship, tlmir oral teach
ing and all their written literature
prove that the converse is true.
What applies to tlio laity applies
also to the subsidiary secret orders
of the hierarchy, all of which carry
an oath of fidelity to the pope of
Rome, protestations of the mem
bership to the contrary notwith
standing. Results of Foreign Allegiance
A stream cannot rise higher
than its source, and as a result of
this inculcated allegiance to a for
eign potentate, the Roman Catholic
citizenship of the nation maintains
a standard of morals and ethics di
rectly oprowd to that which goea
hand in hand with a free democracy
such as was founded by our fathers
and such as we all hope to preserve
and maintain.
Roman Catholics, as a result of
their teaching and training are
openly and unalterably opposed to
freedom of speeck. Witness the
assaults and in some cases murder
of Protestant or non-Catholic
speakers and lecturers by Roman
C atholics and Knights of Columbus
within the past five years, the de
tails of which have been published
time and again, and which can be
furnished an investigating commit
tee on snort notice.
They art opposed, openly and
avowedly, to the freedom of tht
frets as it is guaranteed us by the
constitution of the United States.
Witness the various attempts on the
part of Roman Catholics to bring
about the, suppression of patriotic
and so-called radical newspapers
and periodicals. Also the vanous
press muzzje measures proposed to
the congress of the United States
by Roman Catholic congressmen
and senators within the past five
years.
They are opposed to tht long
cherished principles of tht freedom
of assembly. Witness the hundreds
of riots at publio meetings of pa
triots in various parts, at lha oouo.
try within recent years, in every
instance lead by Roman Catholics
and Knights of Columbus, and in
many instances evidence was not
larking that the shameful conduct
was iubtigatcd by Roman Catholic
priests in good standing and in the
practice of their profession.
They are opposed to tht Amer
ican public school system, the very
corner stone of our civilization and
the institution on which we rely
most strongly for the perpetuity of
our citizenship.
They art opposed to tht great
fundamental principle of tht free
dom of conscience, following those
who dissent from their religious
views with the most relentless per
secution in the form of the boycott
the Inquisition np-to-date.
While denouncing our free pub
lic schools aa "Godless," they seek
to proselyte and dominate from the
inside by worming their way into
tenching positions wherever and
whenever opportunity permits; at
the same time they maintain
private parochial schools when
their own children are taught alle
giance to the pope of Rome arvl
treason to the American flag, an !
yet have the temerity to insist th..
they shall be given a division of S
public school money with whi S
to support and maintain these nurs
eries of infidelity to American prin
ciples of free government
They conduct closed and clo;s
tered institutions, under the guise
of religion, that have been proven
time and time again to be nothing
more or less than prisons and places
of involuntary servitude, where the
labor of helpless, haplesa youth is
turned into profit for this great politico-ecclesiastical
machine.
In Politics for a Purpose
In pursuance of her plan to
"make America dominantly Roman
Catholic" the Church of Rome not
only grooms her members for polit
ical preferment, but she acts con-
rerteuly in a nation-wido effort to
place iu positions of power and
trust members of the Roman Cath
olic faith, with the distinct under
standing that they are to ue their
offices to the best of their ability to
entrench the church in power in
America and substitute tho insti
tutions of a free democracy with
those of the autocratic papal system. '
In furtherance of this concerted
plan the Roman Catholic hierarchy
has fostered and built up in this
country -tho most perfect political
machine the world has ever known,
and against which neither one of
(ComtUoei em rage S, Oolnma 4)
i -
