F
The St. Joseph Observer
f
ST. JOSEPH, MISSOURI, SATURDAY, (JULY 22, 1916
NUMBER 42
VOLUME IX.
4
u.
i "
rov
15
a
W.
';)
....?
r-
)
j
T '
IF fflU PICK ffl
YOU CI IKE i MISTAKE
They
Are the Right Sort of Democrats
and Are Entitled to Your
Hearty Support
Choose Your Favorite and If He Does
Not Win, Support the Man .
Who Does
It Is right up to the limit the boil
ing point of the political pot It Is al
most ready to boll over by this time
next week the pot will be overflowing,
for the various Democratic candidates
for county office are making the fire
so hot that there can be no other re
sult. Of course the Republicans may
think that they have a look-In, but
they have not, for no Republican Is
on the slate 'for election this fall.
The state candidates have been real
busy, but they do not figure in local
politics. Likewise the congressional
candidates (those who are on the
ground, and who are trying to dis
place a man who Is attending to the
duties of the office to which the
people elected him and who stays at
his post of duty from which the other
candidates are trying to oust him,
simply from the fact that they want
the place and have only that desire
upon which to base-thelr claims) are
busy, but that is not a patch to what
the candidates for county office are
doing. They are.slmply working with
that vigor and strength which is born
of a desire to succeed.
And there never was a batch of bet
ter fellows or better Democrats, than
the boys who are striving for that nom
ination a week from next Tuesday. It
almost Is a pity that all of them "can
' not succeed, for they are all of the
class and sort who would make the
right kind of officials.
The Judges Race
Tom Allen Is the only one of those
who aspire for Judicial position who
has no opposition and he should not
have.
Thnmns F. Rvan. William II. UUJ
and James C. Growney want the place
of Judge for the third-division of the
circuit court, and no one could ask for
better material.
And then comes the representa
tives: Ed Swartz and Roy RUBh in the
First: Frank J. Staedler, who never
deserved opposition, In the Second;
W. T. CUne and Ben F. Stuart In the
Third; and Walter T. Edson, C. W.
Meyer and J. D. Robinson in the
Fourth, any one of whom would give
St. Joseph and Buchanan county its
proper standing.
And then there Is Lon Bostick, Mar
vin Kirkman and J. K. Lower, who
want to be county Judge from the
First district, and Gus Balslger, Joe
STEP UP, GENTLEMEN
The Stockyards Journal Issues a Call
To the Bloodthirsty
Warriors
For those blood-thirsty .persons who
have been demanding that something
be done In Mexico it might be men
tioned that Messrs. Villa et al are
still alive and that their whereabouts
Is unknown, and that there is a
United States army recruiting station.
It Is a case ot put up or shut up now.
There is nothing- tostop those war
like spirits who havq been aching for
Mexican on toast for Weakfast. Stop
right up, gentlemen, and you will bo
given your preference, artlllsry, In
fantry or cavalry. St. Joseph Stock
yards Journal.
THE REPUBLICAN PLATFORM
We declare.
We desire. .-
We deeply sympathize.
We express.
We reaffirm.
We favor.
We renew, -
We accepted.
We condemn.
Wo reiterate.
Wo must have.
We are utterly opposed.
We pledge.
We are hungry.
ONE OF THESE
Brown, Judge William Bub, the pres-1 wiison, In love with humanity, ready
ent Incunib.-nt, John T. Clark, Hank t0 gacriflce his ambitions for the wel
Connell. Jim Leonard, Pleas Oatman, , fare of the nation, or Hughes, ever
and John Tetherow, who want to he j ready to shamefully misrepresent, a
Judge from the Second district and ( ioyai( patriotic Christian gentleman
you can make no mistake when you 1
pick any of them.
Oscar McDanlel has no opposition
for prosecuting attorney, and this
leads us Into a real race.
Who Will Get It?
Ott Thelsen, Joe Gates, Bill Wyatt,
Tom Moore, Jim Hunt and Charlie
Richardson, all want to be the next
sheriff or uuenanan couniy. une oi i
them will be but out of such a lot
of good fellows you must make your
choice.
Al Munsey, John Crawford and
John Webster, each and every one of
them, would like to be assessor. Take
jour choice.
Frans and Claiborne
Both Henry Frans. 'who has so well
led the place, and George G. Clal-1
. . .. ... .,,o.-
filled
borne want to be county treasurer. ,
Who could ask far better timber?
Ray Cargill, who Is the present ef-'hlbited by the Harrison act, .'jject
flclent county highway engineer, and themselves to prosecution and heavy1
Will Hazen want the place, which tells penalty In addition to the 50 per cent,
how the roads may or shall be built. "All other special taxpayers, such as
Mary Williams has made a good tobacco dealers, brokers, pawn brok
publlc. .administrator end no one dares ers, commercial brokers, commission
to try to take the place away from merchants, proprietors of bowling al
her. ' leys, billiard and pool halls, theaters,
There Is going to be a Champ Clark museums and concert halls, etc., must
"hoss race" for coroner, with Dr. W. register In this office on or before
W. Gray, Dr. J. W. Mays, Dr. Forrest July 31 or penalties of 50 per cent
Thomas and Dr. Lyda Hlllyard all in are automatically imposed, In addl
the running. , tion to other liability that might be
A Big List insisted upon for conducting such
The candidates for constable in the busIne,ss, wlth.out havinS flrst secured
,..i.. .,. ,.innt0 -m m..H special tax stamp.'
ItlllUUa .U.U9tk l' V.......IU ..... ...uu
among themselves, but when It comes
to Washington (St. Joseph) township
there Is a line-up which Is hard t0
beat, for every aspirant Is a Democrat
of the true type. George Blackley,,
JimmleMcGreevey. Walt Patten. Cecil
James, Charley Gates and Roy Pryor(
all want the place and each and every
one of them are worthy.
Tho only place In which there are
no contests Is that for registrars In
the city. All of the nominees will not 1
deserve a contest. !
There Is no place or no point In the
whole list of Democratic aspirants
where you cannot choose a real Dem
ocrat. Go to the primary and do so.
THEM TWO
Seemed a kind o' curious thing
Warn't many cried
When the richest man In town
Tuk t' bed an died.
When folks went tbar to inqulro
An' offer help within,
Ser.vants waltln' on the door
Tuk the greetln's In.
Old Aunt Sally carried soup,
Mandy brought some Jell;
Didn't git a word o' thanks
When they rung the bell.
Got f thinkln', did he leave
Very much behind?
Jest a heap o' property
An bonds o' every kind.
'Twarn't so when Uncle Bill
Crossed the "great, divide"
All the folks in town wuz thar,
Jin' all the folks, they cried.
Got f thinkln', did he leave
Very much behind?
Didn't own a vacant lot,
But his heart was kind,
An' his smile was pleasln'.
An' what he bad he shared,
So the passln' o' them two
Couldn't be compared.
Used f think I'd like t' be
Richest man in town;
Still, I couldn't leave behind
Nothin' worth renown.
Spec' the world's tho gainer by"
Sech men ez Uncle Bill;
Know the world's tho loser since
He'a gone we miss him still.
L. Duncan Cox.
COMPARE THE TWO
Read What Wilton Had to Say, and
What Hughes Said
In Reply
To the Editor of The Observer: j
Those were great, grand, patriotic ,
words uttered by President Wilson
before the New York Press Club,
I when he said: "Personally, It will bel
j a matter of Indifference to mo what '
I the verdict on the 7th of November '
is, provided I feci any degree ot con- o
fldence that when a later Jury sits I
shall get their Judgment in my favor. I
Not my favor personally, but In my j
favor as an honest, conscientious 4.
spokesman of the nation." Great
words from a great heart throbbing ,
in sympathy for his fellowmen. '
Compare this speech with that of 1
Charles Hughes, in which he blamed j
President Wilson with the responsi- j
billty ot the Lusltanla disaster. Let
the voters of all political faiths readjj
these two speeches, and on election Hf
day let his manhood dictate whom he Y
shall support as the nation's chief.
wlth a charge so criminally brutal and
so utterly false as to be disgusting
to all men in every avenue of life.
Oregon, Mo., July 21. X.
TO AVOID PENALTY
All
Income Taxpayers in Collector
Harbers District Must
Get Busy
Collector E. M. Harber says: "Of
the 7,000 Income taxpayers In this dis
trict, corporation and individual, there
are less than fifty delinquent These
have already Incurred a penalty of 5
per cent.
"Druggists,
surgeons and
physicians, veterinary
dentists who failed to
register In this office by July 1 have1
Incurred a penalty of 50 per cent, and
't - ... i .i.i- .1 . -i
having in their possession, dispensing
in any way any of the narcotics pro-
Collector Harber Is especially anx-
,u thaJ no penaltles , b lmp08e bf
' if he taxpayer neglects to comp y
" " " , " '
he matter, as the penalty must be
lmposed and collected.
iirftti in n mil nn linn tin HlAAvnttAH Ivt
LAKE WILL BE SAVED
Energetic Work Under Col. Brockett
Has Produced Good Results In
Battle With River
i Lake Contrary Is not yet a part of
the Missouri river and It may not be
for some time or maybe never
despite the political and otherwise dis
posed who would put the lake out of
existence. It is true that there Is yet
grave danger that all of the efforts so
far put forth may not avail but up to
the present writing Lake Contrary U
still Intact and the Muddy Missouri
still seeks to absorb It.
Why it has not become a part of the
Missouri Is that Col. J. W. Brockett,
the street car company, the city of
St. Joseph and the farmers who be-
1 long to the threatened section jutt
got out and fought the rapacious soil
bravely, savagely and furiously and
Col. Brockett, wh6 has had vast ex
perience, knew what to do and how
to do It. The last report today Is that
while there is only about seventy feet
of land between Lake, Contrary and
the stealing Missouri, yet there vlll
be no union for some time to come.
IT IS AMUSING
To Seo What the G. O. P. Papers Are
Now Saying of the
Big Noise
' upon the world's affairs. If we
A Republican paper published in are to have a Democratic con
Nodaway county last week contained1 gress, the leaders will need the
the following bon mot: 4 help of those whom they already
It is rather amusing to notice thati know and who have become
the Democratic papers who never be-' trained in the service. The new
fore had a good word for the Bull en can prornise nothing that
Moosers are now profuse with their T . . u
fulsome flattery for the remnant of Representative Booher has not
that party.
It is Just as amusing, also to notice
that the Republican papers which had
not before had anything good to say
of Teddy, but were on the contrary
very bitter toward him, are now pro
fuso with their fulsome flattery for
the betrayer of two parties.
y
x
LET
!
WELL
ENOUGH
ALONE
!
The Nodaway
4.
Demoerat-Forum,
the Leading Northwest Mis
souri Democratic Paper,
Straight Out for Booher
Thn Democrat-Forum of Mary-
vlllr Is recognized as the leading
Democratic paper of that section
of the state, and It nlways speaks
to the point. That Is why It is
In puch high standing and why
ltc opinion carries weight and
counts for It never speaks hap-
harardu. That Is why the follow-
inn editorial from Its dally Issue
of Tuesday Is of much moment,
f0r n shows how not only the
people "of that section but the
Editor who has the best oppor- !
tunlty for observation and feel-
of the public pulse feels on the
question of Congressman Booher
succeeding himself. Here is what
it says editorially:
"Along with other contests the
campaign for congress Is now In
full swing. Messrs. Martin and
Hull are pressing their claims In
every part of the district, while
Representative. Booher is dls-
charging his duties at Washing-
ton
"It Is the duty of every good
citizen to consider the situation
cnrefully and vote In accordance
with the public interest. ,, Mr. V
Booher has accepted the duties
and obligations placed upon him
by the people of the Fourth dls-
trlct and is dlscnarging those
, obligations with unswerving fi-
' dollty. He Is faithful to his trust
1 even to the sacrifice of his own
political interests.
1 "His opponents find no fault
with his record. They admit that
he is honest, that he has been
'rue t0 the pubUc . lnterest' that
ne a hard-working, yaiuame
member of congress, such a one
as the president and party lead-
ers like to see remain there. But
they say he has had the place
long enough, that it ought to be
passed to someone else.
"That Is for the people to de
cide. A seat in the national con
i.'ress Is not a sinecure. It Is not
a mere matter of pie to be passed
around to satisfy an ambitious
craving. It is a matter of serious
business. Every man has a per
fect right to run for office and
his ambition is to be commended,
but It is for the people to say
whom they will choose to serve
them.
"The fact has been well estab
lished that those districts are
served best that keep a faithful
and satisfactory man on the Job.
That is the principle on which
every successful business man
proceeds. That is the policy you
follow when you hire a man to
serve your personal Interests.
You do not discbarge a man who
has shown bis worth Just to be
giving a Job to someone else.
Yet that Is what the voters of
this district are asked to do. The
fact that Charley Booher's off!
ciitl Integrity has never been as'
sailed and that his fidelity to the
interests of this district have
never been questioned Is the
strongest argument that can be
made for his retention In office.
"Champ Clark has said that an
honest congressman's worth to
his district Increases In exact
proportion to his length of serv-
Ice. Champ Clark presides over
435 members, and he knows. The
men who are most influential in
congress, the men who have
chairmanships and places on the
Important committees are the
men who have been ln congress
long enough to prove their worth.
The new men are sent to the
bottom and must work their way
up, and It is not a forty-eight-hour
task nor a one-teira task.
"The present Democratic ma-
Jorlty in congress Is small, the
next one cannot be determined
! now. But the national situation
Is difficult and the best interests
of the country demand the con
j tlnuance In office of the men who
have already secured a grasp
already done or can uo, mis rec-
ord Is bis platform. You know
what to expect If he Is returned
, efficiency, fidelity, honesty and
hard work.
"What more Is there to be de-
sired?"
.
ST - LOUIS THE
BATTLE GROUND
There Is Where the Race for
the Democratic Nomination
for Governor Will End
FIGURES TO SHOW $
THAT THIS IS TRUE
I1
To Those Who Like to Dabble in Pre
Election Data and Who Have a Pen
chant for Divining What the Result
Will Be Before the Ballots Are
Counted, the "Old Statistician" of
Jefferson City, Who Has Made It a
Part cf His Life Work, Offers Some
Interesting Suggestions for Thought
and Fancy
and the fourth man in the St. Louis
contest will receive 31,600 votes In the
There are really but two races for state, and the fifth man will receive
state offices that are engrossing thejs.c00 votes, and the sixth and sev
attentlon of the voters of this section, i enth men 29,600 each,
the others being considered as good The Figures Bewildering
as settled now. The all-absorbing one, "While the figures given above may
of the two, however, is that of the seem bewildering, yet they ate based
race for the nomination for governor 0n the claims that six of the candi
the nomination being equal to elec-! dates are making concerning their
tion and this race has now equaled strength In Missouri, outside of St.
Missouri Champ Clark's prediction of ( Louis. Other Democrats not running
a "hoss race." Who the man will be for office who are posted on the Mis
is to be settled at the primary a week souri situation figure otherwise. It
from next Tuesday, and St. Joseph is ' might be well to take their estimates
so divided as to choice that it is use- and use them for comparative pur
less here to make a prediction from poses. Allowing three of the candl
local grounds. dates 40,000 votes In Missouri outside
Now Just to cool down the local 0f SL Louis, and a fourth 30,000, the
fever a trifle and to show what other fifth 25,000 votes and the remaining
people think, It may be remarked In two 25,000 between them, if this estl
passing that in Jefferson City lives an mate Is anywhere near correct, then
old-time Democrat who probably the leading gubernatorial candidate
knows as much about state politics as Wuh St. Louis Included will receive
an uwu uius in .uiBsuuii, ou hch
is he posted and so well has he kept
track of past event8 that he is known
as the ..01d statistician." In the oast
as the "Old Statistician." In the past iast two 26,000, combined. This fig
few days he has made up a summary urlng Is considered very conservative
of his observations and his gathered by some politicians for the reason that
information would Indicate that St. it allows no landslide for any man
Louis will be the battle ground of the anywhere but with the exception of in
gubernatorial fight and it will settle st. Louis, and gives them all an even
the question whom will be the next break in Kansas City and St. Joseph,
Democratic governor of Missouri, something that will not happen, since
Here Is how he figures It out: "he certain candidate will have a good
To Be Fought Out There lead there, with the others running
"That St. Louis will be the battle considerably behind the second man
ground where the Democratic noml- ln these cities.
nation for governor will be fought and "If these figures are conservative
won on Aug. 1, Is Indicated by asser-' or any way correct, this division of
tlons and claims made by six of the the primary votes may serve the use
aspirants, who are basing this belief ful purpose of indicating that the can
on the strength they say they have dldate who receives 60,000 votes, if
out in the state, excluding Kansas the others hold the strength they
City, St. Louis and St. Joseph. Under claim to have outside of St. Louis,
ordinary circumstances the 1912 Dem- Kansas City and St. Joseph, will safe
ocratlc primary returns would be of ly pull down the nomination,
value in determining how the contest "There are other political statlsti
will end this time, but the fact that clans who have a different opinion of
one of the seven candidates, and a the outcome of the contest. They
strong one at that. Col. F. D. Gardner, predict that the winner will get 75,000
is from St. Louis and the other sbc vote carrying St. Louis heavily, run
from smaller cities and towns and nlng ahead in St. Joseph and Kansas
rural sections, changes the situation City and through being either first or
more or less. In 1912 approximate second man in every congressional
225,000 votes were cast at the Demo- district In the state."
cratic primary all over the state.
Since then Missouri has increased in
population, and this fact, added to the
great Interest which Is being taken
in the coming primary, owing to ques
tions involved which did not figure in
the contest of 1912. It is therefore
conservative to figure that at least
240,000 votes will te cast this time.
Four years ago, Ball, Bolte, Cowherd,
Houchin and Governor Major received
a total of 31,516 votes in St. Louis.
This time, owing to the deep Interest
t mere in me coming primary, me
Democratic vote ought to reach 40.000
The Vote to Be Cast
"Four years ago In Kansas City on
primary day there were cast 19,343
Democratic votes, and ln St. Joseph
7,621, or a total of 26,964 for both
cities. These two cities this time
ought to draw at least 30,000 votes,
and allowing this number and adding
40,000 votes for St. Louis. It seems
that the three cities will bring out
70,000 votes, leaving 170,000 votes for
the balance of Missouri. With six of
the seven candidates claiming every-
thing in sight In Missouri, outside of
St. Louis, Kansas City and St. Joseph,
It Is more than conservative to allow
each candidate a seventh of the rural
vote, something that will not occur,
as there are at least three of the
Democratic candidates who will re-
celve more than that quota. But for
the sakcof living up to the conten-
tlons made by the knowing six, It will
do to say that each of the seven Dem-
ocratic candidates for gubernatorial
honors will receive In the 112 coun-
ties of Missouri, excluding the city of
St. Louis and Jackson and Buchanan
counties, 24,300 votes each. The sup-
posed vote Kansas City and St. Joseph
will deliver can also be taken and ticket in November and his nomina
divided evenly, for argument's sake, tion Bhould be made as nearly unanl-
.between Gardner, Roach,
Atkinson;
Barker, Painter, Lindsey and Houchin,
1 and, if this in done, it mean that
j each will receive approximately 1,300
1 votes in these cities, and when this
is added to the rural voto each would
enter St. Louis with 28,600 votes.
I The St. Louis Vote
"Political statisticians of the state
who have figured out the St. Louis
primary result predict that one can
didate will recele 20,000 votes there
the second highest, 8,000; the third
highest, 5,000; the fourth In the race,
3,000; the fifth, 2,000, and the last
two candidates 1,000 each. If this
estimation is nearly correct, admitting
it is conservative owing to the pe
culiar
situation which faces the St
Louis Democratic voters, and that one
of the candidates lives there and is
very popular, it would give the high
candidate 48,600 votes in the state
The second man In this contest, fig
uring the same way, will receive
36,000 votes, and will therefore be de
feated by 12,000 votes. The third man
in the race will receive 33,600 votes.
approximately 60.000 votes, the see
0nd 48,000,
fourth 33,000.
i, , : n
the third 45,000, the
the fifth 27,000. and the
POOL LENDS STRENGTH
The Well-Known Newspaper Man Will
Help the Ticket In
November
Since the memory of man runneth
not the contrary, Missourlans have
elected a newspaper man to the office
of secretary of state. This does not
just happen there are reasons for it.
The secretary of state compiles and
edits the State Official Manual, known
as the Blue Book, the state's most
important official publication. He is
also a member of the printing com-
mission and has to do with buying all
the paper used by the state, and has
many duties for which a newspaper
man's knowledge and -experience are
Invaluable. And then the unselffish
service and consistent loyalty of the
country editor to the Interest of pub-
He and party alike makes him espe-
clally worthy of preferment. For
these and other reasons the office of
secretary ot state has been filled by
newspaper men tor many years past
without a break. Is there any rea-
son why the time-honored precedent
should be disregarded this year?
The only newspaper man running Is
James Kelly Pool, for twenty-five
years owner and editor ot the Cen-
tralla Courier. Nobody questions his
qualifications; nobody challenges his
worthiness of the honor; nobody
doubts his long record of party serv-
Ice and loyalty. He has the unanl-
mous backing of the Democratic
press ot the state more than three
hundred editors are asking his noml-
nation. He will lend strength to the
mous as possible.
I
V
IL
Jtfefe&tt
U
SnA.' lm
ftjbkj ,
