THE' BARRE BAILY TIME
ISAHKK. VKKMOXT, SATURDAY, JULY
PHICK, OXK CENT.
VOL. XX NO. 109.
22,
1010.
GERMAN ATTACK
WAS REPULSED
.Was IMacle on French Last
Night North of
St. Die
BRITISH IN AN
ARTILLERY DUEL
British Front Line And
French Trenches Bom
barded by Germans
Taris, July 22. A strong German at
tack northwest of St. Die, in the Vosge,
was repulsed last niplit by the French,
the war office reports. On the Verdun
front the fiermans bombarded violently
French positionsin the sectors of Flou
ry and Fumin wood. In the region of
Moulin Sous Toutvent a strong German
Reconnaissance was dispersed.
INCREASING THE
QUARANTINE
Cities and Towns Near New York Are
s Shutting Out Children From .
That City. :
New York, July 22. The quarantine
regulation are of increasing seventy
due to fear of the spread of the infantile
paralysis epidemic, was the report from
h number of cities and town near New
York. At Mountain View, X. V., about
a hundred summer colonists from New
York and a few from Newark were or
riered to leave their bungalows along
the Passaie river and return home. All
house where New York children have
visited have been put under quarantine
A total of 239 cRses of the disease is
reported in New Jersey, S3 in Connect!
cut. and 105 in New York state, outsidti
of New York City.
The local health authorities report
that extreme precautions are being tk
en at St. Ann's church during the celo
bration of the N'ovena of St. Ann. lYowds
have gone there to kiss the B!wred relic.
After each kiss the priest in charge wipes
the relic with an antiseptic cloth, Hill-
dren are not allowed to kiss it, but
the relic is applied to their heads.
NATIONAL FOREST PAYS.
BRITISH IN ARTILLERY DTTEL.
British Front Line and French Trenches
Bombarded.
London, July 22. A spirited artillery
duel along the Iiritish line in northern
France, during which the British front
line and the supporting French trenches
were bombarded with gas shells and pro
jectiles containing eye irritants, was re
corded to-day in the official report.
TWO STEAMERS SUNK.
British "Karma" and French "Ccttois"
Lost in Medeterranian.
Return $2,820,000 to Government Treas
ury. Washington July 22. National for
ests paid into the government treasury
$2,820,000 in the fis.-al year lfllfi, which
set a new record. There was a growth in
revenue from all sources, the largest be
ing $203,000 in timber sales. Grazing
fees showed a gain of $77,IH)0. Receipt
for water-power development were $12,
000 more than for 1015. Sales of tur
pentine privileges and charged for spe
cial uses were in excess of the previous
year.
No Extra Session in New York.
Albany, X. V., July 22. Governor
Whitman yesterday declined to call a
special session of the legislature to con
sider the repeal of five preparedness
measures passed at the lust, session. He
made this announcement at the conclu
sion of a hearing at which a dozen men
and women, representatives of Socialist
Tnnftnn .Tiilr l A ,1ienntli fn T.InTrla
from Algiers savs that the British I Qu" f 1" organizations had re-
NAVAL BILL
PASSES SENATE
$15,S57,5S8 is Added to Mens
ure In the Senate
IS DOING PART OF
CHURCHES' WORK-
PLANS THREE-YEAR
CONSTRUCTION
With Immediate Building of
Four Dreadnoughts and
Four Battle Cruisers
steamer Karma, and the French steamer
Cettois have been sunk. The crews were
landed at Algiers. Lloyds also announced
the sinking of the British steamship
Wolf.
LARGE SUBMARINE
WAS BOUND EAST
Theodore Judson, Keeper of Bridgeport
Light House, Says He Saw One
This Forenoon.
Bridgeport, July 22. Theodore Judson,
keeper of the Stratford light house, re
ported as sighting at 9:45 to-day a large
submarine bound east. The vessel iwas
larger than the United States navy sub
marines, he said.
quested the extra session.
UNITED STATES ASKS
REPLY TO NOTE
Early Response Wanted to Query Why
Neutral Mails are Interfered.
With.
Washington, July 22. Acting Secre
tary Polk announced yesterday that ha
had made formal inquiry of France and
Great Britain as to why no reply had
been received to the last American note
regarding interference with neutral mails,
and had asked for a response at the ear
liest, possible moment.
Afc the time Mr. Polk had not heard
that Ambassador Page had been handsd
a memorandum by the British foreign
office answering specific complaints made
in the American note. This memoran
dum will serve to allay the impatience
of the state department only partially,
however, as officials are, most anxious to
have a definite reply to the general pro
test against the treatment accorded mails
between the United States and neutral
countries of Europe.
The understanding here is that the
French foreign office has sent to London
a draft of a note and that dispatch of
the joint reply is being delayed there.
VILLA FORCE IS 18,000
Is Report at Washington Plans Attack
on Torreon.
Washington, July 22. Rumors that
Francisco Villa, with a force of 18,000,
is preparing to attack Torreon, were
forwarded to the war department yester
day by General Funston. He said the
story had been brought to General Per
shing by "secret service agent." Offi
cials were inclined to give it little cred
ence, pointing out that the agents men
tioned probably were Mexicans who
could not be defended upon for accuracy.
Vermont.
It is to-morrow that Vermont cele
brates officially the 12."th anniversary of
its admission to the American union .al
though the formal date of that admis
sion was the 4th of March, 1791. Men
of distinction and eloquence, including
Governor McCall will, at Montpelier, ev
alt the record and eulogize the charac
ter of the Vermonters. The orators can
hardly praise them too strongly. Ver
mont is a 'barometer state in more
senses than the limited party one. Its
political drift, revealed in its September
election, indeed foretells quite accurate
ly whatever changes may be in process
in the country at large. But that would
not be so if Vermont's population were
not strikingly representative of the av
erage and normal quality of American
thought and action. Americanism shim a
clearly in the Vermont temperament.
There is nothing to cloud it or compli
cate it. Vermont, never had an aristoc
racy; it was Democratic in woof as well
as in warp typical stuff all the way
through. It has been overlaid with no
foreign strata. It has cultivated tha
"little red schoolhouse" as few other
states have cultivated it. Its press has
been juicy and personal. Vermont was
nourished in unqualified Americanism;
for though it was not one of the recog
nized colonies w hen the fires of American
revolt w ere lighted in 1775, but was rath
er a sort of No Man's land, a congeries
of Ishmaelitish mountains whose hand
was against New Hampshire and New
York and all else that assumed to gov
ern themy; it went to Ticonderoga and
captured that fort before Bunker hill
was fought, and set the fighting pace fo
the banded colonies to follow. From
that day to this it has been highly
spiced with aggressive patriotism.
No doubt the recalling of the history
of Vermont's admission to the union will
naturally bring up the records of the
eight years when Vermont was an inde
pendent republic, and will revive the cur
ious story of Ethan Allen's coquetting
with the British, in those years when the
Green mountain republic was denied ad
mission to the union of the American
colonies. There, can be no question thut
Allen acted as an intermediary for cer
tain influences in Vermont which were
disposed to consider a union with Cana
da, since the American union would not
have them. But there is also little doubt
Washington, Jply 22. -The naval ap
propriation bill with a three-year build
ing program including the immediate
construction of four dreadnoughts, four
great battle cruisers and 53 other craft,
passed the Senate late yesterday by a
vote of 71 to 8. It carries $315.S2W3,
or $4.",R57,5SS more than the total as
the measure passed the House.
Many proposals to curtail the enor
mous building increases written into the
measure by the Senate naval committee
were defeated overwhelmingly and as
soon as final passage was announced the
Senate voted to insist on its amendments
and send the bill at. once to conference.
The House is expected to insist on its
building program, and a long struggle is
in prospect lefore agreement is reached.
Two Democrats, Senators Thomas and
Vardaman, and six Republicans. Senators
lapp. Curtis, Gmiina. Lftrollette, Norns
nd Works, voled against the bill, which
has had the support of leaders of both
parties during the week of debate that
preceded passage.
A seven-hour speech by Senator LaFol-
lette against the measure and a clash be
tween Senators Reed and Oliver over the
proposal to print as a public document
the Bethlehem Steel company's argu
ments against a government armor plant
delayed the final vote. The Bethlehem's
arguments were ordered printed by
unanimous consent during Senator Reed's
absence from the Senate chamber. On
his return he vainlv sought reconsidera
tion, charging that Senator Oliver was
an owner of steel stock, and voted mon
ey into his own pocket by supporting the
proposal.
Senators Tillman, Swanson and Lodge
were appointed conferees on the bill.
The House conferees will be chosen on
Tuesday, and daily sessions will prob
ably be held thereafter by the conference
committee.
Construction of 157 vessels, including
16 capital fighting ships, within three
years at an estimated cost of $588,180,
576, is contemplated in the Senate pro
gram, the largest ever proposed in Con
gress. Of the total appropriations in
the hill $110,726.1ftO is for the first year's
building expenditures.
PASS TEN BATTLESHIP BILL.
Amended Measure Goes Through Senate
61 to 13.
Washington, July 22. The Senate by
a vote of 61 tol5 adopted amendments to
the naval bill calling for ten battleships
and six battle cruisers in the three-year
program.
Therefore Salvation Army Has a Right
to Demand Kelp From Them, Says
Col. Jenkins in Barre Address,
Fifteen vears sgo Commander Fv
Booth of th'i Salvation army tpoku in
the Congregational church and at
time since then has a speaker so prom
inent in Salvationist circles been here
until last evening, when Col. Ji-nklns
editor-in-chief of the War Cry, addressed
a fair sid audience from the same pill
pit, in one of a series of mass meeting!
that the army is conducting in several
of the cities in the state. Col. Mm
Cifford of Boston, who had been advei
lined as the chief speaker at the gather
ing was unable to attend because of ill
ness.
Following the open air service in P
pot Square just before 8 o'clock, the
Armv marched to the Congregational
church in a body and the meeting opened
at once with a prayer led by Major Hill
man of Boston. A song was next sung
by bandmaster Malpass of Boston, the
Army joining in on the chorus. Major
Hillman was prevailed upon to sav
few words and a trombone solo by Dan
Andrews followed.
The chief speaker of the evening, Col
Jenkins, was introduced by William
McDonald, and proceeded to speak at
length on the topic, "The Condition of
the Salvation Army." He spoke of the
comparative vouth of the organisation
it being but 61 years old, and of how
it had grown, retaining at the same time
all the vigor of its early da vs. He went
on to refute criticisms that were made
of the Army and did it convincingly,
He told how the Army had grown until
it was now located in 02 countries and
colonies and required 41 languages and
codes to enable it to translate the gos
pel news for its benefactors. The Armv
lie said, prints SI different publications
with a combined circulation of 1,2)0,(hhi,
To pay for all this not one cent of ad
vertising space is sold.
In his concluding rema'ks Col. Jen
kins emphasized three points. First he
wanted every Christian to pray for their
local corps of the Armv. Secondly he
said that the Army had a right to de
inand from the other Christian organiza
tions because it was doing their work in
part and deserved recouipensation. And
in his last point he desired that every
one attempt to work among his fellow
men in the true Salvation Army spirit.
A collection was taken, while John
Robinson gave a cornet solo. The meet
ing closed with a song and prayer
Hngadier Andrews and Mrs. Andrews of
Hartford, Conn., were at the meeting
and nearly every religious sect in Barre
was represented s had been desired. Cap
tain Hazel Hood had charge of the ar
rangements for the meeting and to her
is due much credit for its success.
Sunday night Col. Jenkins and the
other Army men and women from out
of town will attend a similar mas meet
ing to be held in the Strong theatre in
Burlington.
A HANDSOME GIFT.
FIVE KILLED IN
VIRGINIA WRECK
Traffic Delayed for Five Hours When
Freight Crashed Into Rear
of Work Train.
Bluefield. W. Va., July 22. Five men
were killed, ten were injured and traffic
was delayed for five hours yesterday
when a Norfolk & Western freight train
crashed into the rear end of a work
train near Bell Springs, Va. Twelve
cars were demolished in the wreck.
PAIR OF HORSES STOLEN.
Taken from Barn of E. B. Baldwin Near
Arlington.
Bennington, July 22. A pair of valu
able bay mares were stolen Tuesday
Mary Fletcher Hospital Receives $20,
000 from Ira C. Calef.
Burlington, July 22 Treasurer Charles
P. Smith of the Mary Fletcher hospital
has received a letter from Ira C. Calef of
Washington in this state announcing the
gift by the latter to that institution of
various securities of a high degree of de
sirability aggregating the sum of $20,-
000. Mr. Calef had remembered the
Marv Fletcher hospital previously and
this handsome donation is evidence that
he is impressed by the way in which thiR
famous hospital is conducted, and espe
cially its service for the deserving poor
of Vermont.
Mr. Calef also gave $20,000 recently
to the hospital in Montpelier and various
other institutions have received evidences
of his beneficence.
Most of the directors of the hospital
being out of town, it will not be possi
ble for the board to take suitable action
in relation to this gift for a time. The
few members of the board in town and
especially President W. J. Van Patten,
were enthusiastic in their expressions of
appreciation of this handsome donatiou
to the hospital from Mr. Calef.
DESTROYED
BY LIGHTNING
Farm Buildings on Dodge
Place in Berlin
Burned
TWO PLACES IN
BARRE CITY STRUCK
Houses on Highland Avenue
and Essex Street Hit,
Damage Slight
The house was asved only by the prompt
work of Mr. Dickertnnn and the neigh
bors, who tnrnied bucket brigade and
dui-iH'd WHt-r on the building.
The burned structure It 1 1 - I with
hay which had been gathered during
the nat week. No other building or
equipment were burned to any cxtet.t
The tiro spread over the hern quickly
anl the flumes were so bright that tha
whole villaee waa illuminated by the
glow.
BOYS NEED HOME
SUPPORT, ABOVE
ALL, LETTERS
One of the most violent electrical
storms of the summer occurred la.-t even
ing and was accompanied by a torrential
shower that lasted for nearly an hour,
The storm seemed to spend its fury
right here in this section of Washington
county and reports of damage by light
ning are numerous, although in only one
or two instances were the loes heavy.
At the Cummings farm, so called, on the
Berlin road from .Intercity park, a barn
owned bv Clavton Caustic was struck bv
lightning and burned to the ground. Two
men and a pair of horses were in the
barn when the bolt entered the building.
hut the men were uninjured and the
horses were led to a place of safety.
Here in the citv a bolt struck the Eli
D. Richards house on Essex street and
wrought lufoc with the shingled roof,
although no interior damage waa done.
None of the occupants was affected by
tha lightnings visit. The loss on the
property is covered by insurance in the
SfcAllister A, Kent agency. On Highland
avenue a bolt entered the house occupied
jointly by the families of H. H. Hodgdon
and . . Perrv. No one was in the
house, but Messrs. Perry and Hodgdon
were sitting in the barn door near the
house when the bolt arrived. Both men
tell of being momentarily stunned by
their proximity to the spot where the
lightning entered the house. In its most'
capricious mood, the bolt released a door J
from a cooking range in the upstairs
partment occupied by Mr. Perry and
did considerably more damage in the
Hodgdon apartment on the first floor.
here soot in a coal stove was scattered
through the parlor.
ivid lightning flashes were numerous
and sharp peals of thunder supplemented
the brilliant display in the heavens.
Persons watching the storm from the
business section thought that a bolt en
tered the ground in City square. The
Dodge barn fire was plainly discernible
from the city and to the southeast the
reflection of another fire was noticed,
Ithough its location could not be learned
this morning. Hill streets were gullied
bv tile downpour and on the streets in
the loner part of the city much sediment
from the uplands was deposited. The
temperature dropped noticeably after home obligations, hut if such encourage-
the storm, but the humidity was present nient does not fail, they are likely to
again this morning and conditions por-i come out ot this experience stronger,
If Such Encouragement Does Not Fail,
They Are Likely to Come Home
Stronger and Better Men,
Writes Chaplain Thomas.
Fa'gle Pass, July, IS, lOlo.
To the Editor of The Times: Colonel
Beeves his assigned me the pleasant
duty of sending a word now and then
to the home papers, in order that the
friends at home may have an official
word as to the health and welfare of the
men. I am glad to report that thus far
the men are in excellent spirits and
there have been no more eases of illness
than would le likely to occur among the
same numlier of men at home. The only
illness at all serious has been that of
Private "unco Rich of Co. F, who is
making a rapid and complete recovery
from an operation for appendicitis. Aside
from administration of the typhoid pro
phylaehic and vaccination, the medical
staff has had little. to do. One of the
doctors has suggested he might bring
his family here as a desirable health re
sort. What little illness we have had
has come from drinking too much "pop"'
and eating pies bought at the exchanges
and outside stands. Restrictions were
placed promptly on the sale of these ar
ticles and the good effect was noticed
at once. The army rations are clean,
healthy and abundant and both officer
and men live as well as they do at home.
It is natural for the boys to write
scary letters about trie terrible beaFts
and fearful climate, but so fur no one
has been wounded bv a horned toad nor
has there been a single case of heat
prostration. The friends at home should
remember that Textis has a considerable
permanent population, many of them
from the North, and that thev stay here
of their own free will and accord became
they like the conditions. Frankly, I pre
fer Vermont, but I have to admit that I
have seen nothing in Texas so disagree
able as the slush and mud of the annual
spring thaw in Vermont. We have pre
cisely the same conditions here as obtain
in the regions of the Southwest, where
tuberculosis patients are sent and which
are found so favorable for their recov
ery. The first thought of Colonel Reeves
and his staff has been to conserve the
health of the men, and there have been
no military exigencies to compel hard
ships or privation. I trust, therefore,
that If any of the boys write home in a
way to stir anxiety, their friends will
remember that it is always the tempta
tion of the traveler to magnify unfavor
able comparisons with home conditions.
and that they will take some of the awe-
inspiring descriptions with a grain of
salt. The bovs need home support, above
frequent letters reminding them of
MRS.. FELCH
OFFERED $1,000
' f) WILLIAMS
If He J'ould Get Joe, Her
Hi md, Out of the Way,
So vvilliams Told Deputy
Sheriff Welch While Con
fined in the Chelsea Jail
RESPONDENT TURNED
DOWN THE OFFER
Mrs. Fclch Also Offered to
Supply Williams With
Money With Which to Se
cure a Divorce From His
Wife, Sheriff Says the Ac-
i m-i i it.'...
cusca ioia mm
tended another shower in the next 2-1
hours.
PASSED BAD CT JCKS.
DROWNED IN LAKE CHAMPLAIN.
Italian Student at St. Lawrence Acad
emy Summer School Loses Life.
Plattsburg, N. Y., July 22. Louis Jean
Francisco, IS years old, who had coma
from Italy to attend St. Lawrence acad
emy, Montreal, was drowned in Lake
( hamplain near Cliff Haven yesterday.
The boy. accompanied by five other St.
Lawrence students and two priests, ar
rived at Cliff Haven a few days ago to
attend the Catholic summer school of
America, taking a cottage outside tha
school grounds.
Francisco was missed at noon and his
clothes were found on the bank. His
body was recovered later in about eight
feet of water.
AU- I . . C .1.'
w .,, I'u.pinw . w..s ..ego. ,,,....., . h f he b(jrn o F jj Baldwin, a
Into the American union A lien partici- Benni ton -ton and about two
liu wiiii i w iiui Heart, in iiiat auuiis- i ., . . -i, ,.,
gate in Congress, and every man in the
new state assumed with joy and loyalty
the duties of a full American citizen.
Typically American as Vermont is,
there is a spice of individuality, a special
flavor, which is undoubtedly peculiar to i .
the state and its people. The Vermont- i g -
er has more individuality to the cubic', u
:u .v.. n , . .. . I from the barn.
Mr. Baldwin visited the barn about 5
o'clock yesterday morning the animals
were missing.
From faint footprints near the high
way Mr. Baldwin concluded that the
horses had been taken in the direction of
No vehicle of any kind
harness or parts of harness were taken
T0WLE BARNS BURN.
Two autos, driven by Bestir Balestier
nd Csssius Wilson, met near Brattle
boro Thursday evening and Balestier'a
car was stripped of its running board
nd mudguards on one side, the other
car getting off. more fortunately.
Sharon Holden of Westminster West
turned two horses out to pasture re
cently and lat week discovered that one
inch than the man of any other state
The future historian of the American so
cial structure may find the explanation
of this in the fat limestone soil of Ver
mont hills, which has endowed them with
many special products, from maple su,;
sr of a flavor unattained elsewhere to a
breed of horses which ts all Vermont's
own; or he may find it in the climat1-,
or in the sloughing off of the social dis
tinctions which prevailed in the other
states. At all events the Vermonter is
peculiar. In religion he may run to Ad
ventiem or to some other eeeentricit y.
Vermont produced Joseph Smith, Bng
ham Young, and Oneida Community
Xoyea. But it has also produ-ed the
sturdiest type of simple faith and de
votion. Vermont, acting on Stephen A.
Douglas' confession that it is an excel
lent state to emigrate from, has sent its
sons and daughters all over the union to
vitalize the affairs of the nation and of
tbe other states. Not a state, not even
Massachusetts or Virginia, hss'sent the
stream of it blood further or wider. And
with its enrichment of other regions.
it has not degenerated at home. Im
provement has been the watchword in Judge James E. Perry
recent years. Vermont has taken a new was nominated for vice president in op-jtrirger
lease of life, educationally, inaustrwlh, position to Patrick S. Connor of Clinton, Iwpon1ncv is supr-ood in hsre hrn i Pittsf rd. July 22 A hip hay Wn
agriculturally. It will do stiil finer things Mass. Michael W. Pelaney of Chicago, the cn. lie is survived bv his wticjon the farm of Edward Dti-kermsn
During the night a family living at
the Clarence L. Holden farm a mile and
a half south of Arlington village returned
to find the house they had left in dark
ness thoroughly illuminated with lampi.
Entering it was discovered that ionui
person had ransacked the house for pro
visions and prepared a meal which they
had served on the dining room table.
It is presumed that the horse thieves
and the persons who appropriated the
provisions are identical.
Hibernian Elections.
Boston, July 22. The expectations of
adherents of the present officers of the
order that they would be re-elected with
out, opposition for another term were
dashed yesterday when the convention
took up the business of nominations and
it appeared that there would be a con
test for every office.
For the president of the national body,
Michael G. Rohsn of Milwaukee was
nominated as was also the present hea l
of the order, Joseph McLaughlin of Phil
adelphia
F. L. Slack, Wanted in Rutland, Caught
in Winchendon, Mass.
Rutland, July 22. Frank L. Slack of
Wulfert, Fla., for whom the officers of
this city had been looking for two days,
it being alleged that he swindled the
Rutland Machine and Automobile com
pany and Charles II. Walker of this
city by giving them bad checks, was ar
rested late Thursday at Winchendon,
Mass., on request of Rutland county
authorities.
State's Attorney C. V. Poulin and Dep
uty Sheriff D. A. Barker went to-day to
DODGE BARN IN
BERLIN BURNED
Structure, with 15 Tons of Hay, Farm
Machinery and Adjoining Sflo De
troy ed Loss About $2,000.
Lightning struck the barn on the
Dodge farm, so called, on the Berlin pond
road, during the electrical storm at 0
o'clock last evening, the structure, with
about 15 tons of hay, farm machinery
and the silo adjoining, being burned to
the ground, causing a loss of nearly $2,-
The buildinsrs were the property of
Clayton Caustic of the Xorthfield road
and insurance of SFl.;t(K) was carried in
the Vermont Mutual Fire Insurance com
pany of Montpelier.
When the bolt struck the barn, two
men, John ( llley and Raymond (iood
enough, were sleeping in the hay mow
but escaped injury and were not only
able to get out safely but succeeded in
rescuing four horses and some of the
farm machinery and tools.
Goodenough collapsed when he reached
the air but was quickly revived, the
shock and smoke being responsible for
his condition.
The two men worked hard to save the
buildings and were aided by neighbors
and Chief Tattee and several regulars of
the Montpelier department who went to
I the scene in an automobile with chemi
better men.
John M. Thomas,
Chaplain 1st Vt. Inf.
DEATH OF FRED E. GOULDSBTJRY.
Winchendon, to make arrangements to LaIs bllt th bIaz(, had a bi ptart
hf,,,.. IllAt. I.n.lr 4 ,- X...1nuJ I .
Former Resident of Barre Passed Sud
denly Away at Swanton Yesterday.
Fred E. Gould-bury, a former resident
of this city and a descendant of the
Gouldsbury who figured prominently in
the early history of Barre, died suddenly
in Swanton yesterday. Mr. Gouldsbury
lived alone in Swanton, where he con
ducted a cobbler shop. Clarence J.
Gouldsbury of Montpelier, a nephew, was
notified of his demise and he. in turn, ad
vised a sister of the deceased. Mrs. Clara
G. F.merson of Worcester, Mass., who
will arrive in Barre late this afternoon.
The bodv will be bronchi to Barre from
Swanton to-day and funeral arrange- i hams' alleged confession set the court
ments are to be made this evening. In-j room agg and a busy week could nnfe
ferment will be made in Elmwood eerue-jhave bepn bropht, toa m0re dramalio
' , , , r r . a Iclimax than when the state announce-.!
Mr. Gouldsbury was a son of John A. j
and Louise Gonldshurv and a native of, mat the contession would not be reatl
Chelsea, July 22. Toward the clo?e of
the fifth day of the trial of State vs
Otis Williams, charged with murder in
the first degree for complicity in caus
ing the death of Joseph Fclch at Tope-
ham on the night of April 22, the prose
cution offered in evidence a statement
said to have been made by the accused to
State's Attorney Frank S. W illiams in
the county jail May 7. The statement,
in effect, is said to be the "confession of :
facts" which rumor has connected with
the case since the trial opened Monday.
When the jury was excluded from cha
court room, the defense vigorously op
posed the admission of the alleged state
ment and until the hour of adjournment
arrived at 5 o'clock the defense and
prosecution were earnestly engaged in
arguing the point before Judge Z. S.
Stanton and the assistant judges.
Before the court took an adjournment
this noon until Monday afternoon at 3
o'clock, the judge had made a decision
on the statement which the prosecution
wished to introduce. In effect the de
cision permits the attorney general and
the state's attorney to introduce as evi
dence the alleged confession of facts said :
to have been made by Williams in tha
county jail. When the decision wa3 .
made it was nearing time for adjourn
ment and the prosecution decided not to
put in the statement until Monday aft
ernoon. Previous to the announcement of the
judge's decision, the preliminary hearing
started yesterday afternoon was contin
ued, to the exclusion of the jury. The,
hearing was on the question of introduc- ,
ing Williams' alleged statement and tha
defense offered in evidence the testimony
of J. Walter Bigelow of Braintree, who
was an inmate at the county jail when
the confession is said to have been made.
The witness said he was committed in
March and was present in the jail when
Williams was lodged in a cell after his
arrest. His testimony tended to bear out)
the contention of the defense that detec
tives stationed in the jail induced Wil
liams to make statements on the strength '
of promises of reward or immunity.
The early prospect of hearing Wil-
Barre.
ducted
For a number of years he con
a shoe shop on Becklev street,
CATCH RICHFORD THIEVES.
Three Boys Caught Yesterday Burglariz
ing Cigar Store.
Richford, July 22. As the result of
long watchfulness, three boys, respec
tively, Shover, Tatro, and Tessier, were
caught about 4:45 o'clock yesterday
morning in the act, it is alleged, of bur
glarizing the cigar store and pool room of
Clarence Hope in the Wood worth build
ing. For a Fng time the section around
the automobile garage on River street
has been troubled by petty thieves.
Thursday night Mr. Hpe left a little
cash purposely and the boysit is said,
took that, some cigarettes, etc. The caU
drawer of the automobile garage wss
burglarized between fi and 6:15 o'clock-
Thursday evening. Entrance was made
through windows.
The house on the farm was burned
about six years ago and since that time
the barn has been used to houe the hay
cut on the property. The barn, situat
ed as it was, on a high point, could be
seen burning from the city and in spite
of the rain a number went to the scene
in automobiles.
until court reconvenes Monday.
The largest crowd of the week wa
leaving Barre five vears ago and locating iU , , ,, f ,, ,
: " V T ., j . , . h gathered under the courthouse roof. Seat-
in Wfliunn. in H. r:iruu Hl-riui-ni, prv-
eral vears ago he suffered the loss of! m was premium and when
both "lower limbs. Thereafter be fssh-' became apparent that the state was
ioned for himself a pair of artificial the point- of offering as evidence tha
limbs and continued to supply his own 11,'h rumored statement an expectant
needs in that wav until his death, h"" settled down over the spectator.
Sometime after the 'accident he obtained W interest in the proceedings reached
a patent on an artificial leg invention. I hih l"t'b during the testimony of .
-Ironnrt Xarih finrre be was esneciallv I Dr. W. K. Rowlimd of Corinth on the'
well known and his cobbler shop for j day previous and again when Deputy i
years was the gathering place each even- Sheriff Lawrence Welch was permitted
ing for men of the lie iglibor hood who : earner in tne mucui-mmi lt itiraiw um
wished to discuss current topics. Tartic- i
ulars received bv Clarence Gonldshurv
conversation with Williams in the coun
ty jail, it became even more clearly
state that he was found dead either iii i accentuated when the moment the pros-
h is shop or in a room at the rear of the ieeut ion indicated that it would brin'
shop, his demise being attributed to j before the jury the statement alleged t
heart trouble. have been made by the accused concern
ing the circumstances leading up to thj
C. C CHAFFEE A SUICIDE.
Prominent New Haven Farmer Shoots
Himself Through Heajt.
Bristol, July 22. Calvin C. Chaffee.
aged 7, a leading farmer of New Haven. J
committed suicide at his home at .1 1
Big Loss Suffered When Fire Destroys
Buildings Filled with Hay.
Middlebury, July 22. The barns of
I.oyal Towle, who live on the road to
Whiting, were burned to the ground
with all contents about 9 o'clock Thurs
day evening. It is supposed that the fire
started in the hay. The cow biirn, horse
Ham n m ailn nl rf r, 1 siv. n . m
. .... ...... .. ... p.-..
nned to tneir capacity, as naying was
practically over. There was also con
siderable machinery and tools. The
stoik was all saved. The loss will he
eve
DEATH OF MRS. J. B. DARLING.
Was for Manv Years a Resident of
Many Years
Barre.
South Ryegafe. July 22 A telegram
received the evening of July 211 by Dr.
C. V. Darlinff of this place announced
the death that morning at. 6 o'cloi k at
Portland, t ire., of Mrs. James B. Darling,
a former resident of R I-fliirel street.
Barre. No further particulars were giv-
Marble Company in Receiver's Hands.
Rutland. Julv 22. The Colorado-Yule
ral thousand dollars, partly covered Marble company at Marble, Col., of which
slaving of Felch.
The testimony of Deputy Sheriff Welch
iwas admitted following the noon reecs
and that only after the court had eon-;
sidered arguments pro and con as to
whether the deputy's statement was ad-
jmissible, the defense contending that tho
respondent had not been properly advised
of the possible .nseiirnees of hi talk
with Mr. Welch. When the court al
lowed the deputy to proceed he took the
stand and swore to holding convers.itimi
with the accused hile he was confined
in the county jail. In effect Williams'
statement a that he didn't sho't
Felch, that he did chores at the Felch
farm on the night of April 22 and wer.t
by insurance. Neighhors were noon on
the scene, summoned by telephone, and
by their bard work succeeded in saving
the house by means of a bucket brigade.
BARN BURNS AT PITTSFORD.
nt Tj .-i a i IfiL " Ptr?r or"'n?- kootmg bim- g;g structure on the Dickermaa Farm " dor. do concern.
of Indianapolis 'self through the heart. He pulled the T . .
resident in op-ltrirger with his foot. Mruclt by Lightning. rWrlair.t to the V,
former Mavor J. F. Manning of this cityjhome around :!. oVlotk. going to bed
is pre-ident and general manager, hss j almost immediately upon his arrival 1 hs
pone into the hand of a receiver. Mr. witness tetiisl teat William toll him
Manning has len named re.-eiv.r. lTi-.of improper relations with Mrs. Feio't
3 fornvr manager of the Columbian Mir- 'on several .M-i-aions; that Ann Fr 1. h of.
hl- ousrrvitig company of this city, j fered him a.'iOft ! get Joe. her husband.
About I'm Rutland men are employed by j "tit of the way and that she later raisI
the o!!er to Minor Acrori:te to tl.e
witness, the respondent said he turn"!
Cotrrlaint to the P.ar!irrtn . ,ard rfid-mn b"th offer oti the ground t ': at it
he!ttt that ice that wss cut in fe Wi-i n f. a mu-h ri-k. After that
r-f them, which was shoed. had kkkedlin It nest century and a ousrter than 'the present treasurer. ha as an nnon ithree .n. nr4 four Hunt-M..'.-,.
the other and broken a foreleg. The a ui-lit has don in the last. Boston Tran-ient for election. Patrick F. CarT cf The funeral ill t Ndi )fr,n.
rr.al had to be shot. script. Washington, D. C oVlock.
tw.njcd to the ground at Irt:15 U-
i ill be bell Monday at 2 F i:ht hn the huild'ng wax tru l; bv
lijbtn.rg duiir-g a Leai v electrical storm, raaicst
!i""ski was heirig old resulted its r t fl- 'Hi'
'.ation to th ?.- Vrs to .tfp the ; f - J . v
'tice. It is in violation of the i tv old: -'
h quoted th. respondent ss ssyina,
:s ' "n m msrii the n.e mv.
(Cont'Tiued on tig1 th page )
