'Ufa
Mom
fflfotte
TIIIRTY-FIRST YEAR.
NORTH PLATTE, NEB., AUGUST '1, 1916.
No. 58
LOCAL AJfD 1'ERSOXAL
LOCK WILL KKKCT NMV
HUILMNG OX LOCUST
Mrs. James McEvoy and son have
returned from a visit with friends In
Cheyenne.
Mr. and Mrs. Elmer Coates visited
Mr. and Mrs. Guy Coates at Maxwell
Wednesday.
' Miss Nina Van Doran will return to
day from an extended vhlt with friends
In Maywood.
Fatty and Mabel at the Keith Mon
day night in the Keystone "Ho Did
and He Didn't."
Mhls Emma ltudat, of Omaha, ar
rived Wednccdny to spend two weeks
iwlth the homo folks.
John Ross, of LeMoyne, who has
been visiting friends In town for a
week, will leave tomorrow.
Mr. and Mrs. Deo Ranoy and chil
dren, of Wallace, have been guests at
the Greeley Dundy home.
Mrs. Alex Fcnwlck is expected to
I'eturn in a few days from a visit with
her daughter in Cheyenne.
Mrs. C. iM. Nowton and son Donald,
will lcavo in a few days for cities o
Colorado to spend several weeks.
Mrs. Verne Mann and baby will
leave Sunday afternoon for Denver to
spend a fortnight with her paronts.
Miss -Minnie Rudat, vho had been
visiting in Hastings for three weeks,
returned the early part of this week.
Miss Elslo Johnson, who had been at
tending the Kearney normal for sever
al weeks, returned home a few days
ago.
Mr. and Mrs. Harry Moore will leave
shortly for Estes Park and Colorado
cities to spend several weeks with
Iriends.
Miss Mildred McKeown, bookkeep
er at the O'Connor store, left yester
day morning for Colorado to spend
her vacation.
Thomas Green, Ross Hosford, Clyde
Giddeon and Guy Swope formed a
fishing party which left yesterday, for
western points.
Senator Cordell and wife, of Mo
Cook, visited Attorney and Mrs. Walter
V.i Hoagland this week while enroute
to iEstes Park by aiuto.
Mrs. M. C. Harrington, of Denvor,
who had beon visiting in Central City,
is the guest of her sister Mrs. John
Hcrrod, while enroute homo.
Mr. and Mrs. George Miller, of Par
eons, Kansas, who were visiting their
daughter Mrs. J. E. Inman for ten
days, loft Monday morning.
William Mullen, of the Stone drug
store, will leave shortly for Omaha,
Wood River and other parts of east
ern Nebraska, to visit for two weeks.
Mr. and Mrs. Harry Lcwson enter
tained a few friends informally Wed'
nesday evening. A number of enjoy
able musical selections were render
ed.
Mrs. K. C. Raker, of Altoona. came
a few days ago to visit her sons Messrs.
I.iieiusf and Donald CTBrien. Mlrs.
Baker was formerly a resident of this
city.
Friends in town have received word
that Mrs. Guy Robinson, of Portland,
fnrmriv nf this citv. who iwas oper
ated upon recently, is getting alon
nicely.
Miss Lillian Beechon, of the Gem
Candy Co., cut a deep gash in her hand
while at work a few days ago and will
bo olf duty for somo time. She has
gone, to Horshey to spend a week with
homo louts.
Dan Atchison spent yesterday in
town visltinc frlonds. For several
years past he had resided in California,
but returned to Nebraska six weeks
ago and has again taken up' his resi
deuce in Kearney.
Attorney and Mrs. W. V. Hoagland,
who visited last weoK in umana, Lin
coln and other easter points In their
par. returned tho first Of the meek.
Miss Tholma Frater visited friends
in Maxwell this week.
Rev. and Mrs. W. S. Banks, of Chad
ron, came several days ago to visit
Dean and Mrs. J. J. Bowker for a week
nnd in company with the latter will
leave today for Denver and other west
ern points of interest.
Tho local civil war veterans have
been Invited to tho Chautauqua pro
gram tomorrow afternoon as tho guests
of the committed, Jin orderto give
them an opportunity of hearing the
lecture of Governor Glenn.
Keith Neville left Wednesday even
ing frr the central part of tho state,
where ho will address several demo
cratic meetings. Mr. Neville expects
to be absent from homo practically all
the time from now until tho November
election.
Clifford Matthowson. formerly of
Brady, but now a wealthy auto deal
er in Now York City, passed through
Wednesday enroute to Oakland, Cal.,
where he was called by tho Illness of
his brother Linn, who Is suffering
from appendicitis in a bad form.
Tho program at tho Keith tonight Is
worthy of especial noto In that It
nresents the well known comedians-
Weber and Fields In "The Worst of
Friends" and tho 5 part play "Botween
Men" with House Potcrs, Wm. Hart
and Enid Markov.
Tim local base ball team will leave
August 12th for a ten day trip during
which they will play at uneyonne,
Kimball. Potter. Petz, and throo days
at Scotts Bluff. Thoy will also play at
Eustis during tho tournament August
22nd to 24th. Tho team has played
twenty-three games, and lost, five, per
cent lge 822 One tto game was played.
A. M. Locko Is now having plans
prepared for a building which he will
erect on Locust street on the site oc
cuied by the buildings recently burn
ed. Tho new building twill be 06x126
one ctory, pressed brick front and
brick and hollow tllo on north and east
end. Tho plans have been promised
by Saturday evening and bids for Its
construction will at once bo asked.
The walls will be of sufficient strength
to sustain two additional floors should
such beon deemed advisable In tho fu
ture. Two local business llrms have prac
tically agreed to lease the building for
a period of live years, one of the firms
to occupy forty-four feet, tho other
twonv-two feet. Until tlio leases arc
sign?d, the names are withheld.
This decision on the part of Mr.
Lock to build, means a big improve
ment on Locust street and also means
that two other buildings, and possibly
three twill bo erected on that street
next year, as tho erection of tho Lock
building is a strong incentive to the
others to build.
CUT A3fJ COUNT!' JfEWS.
Robert Dickey and son Robert spout
.Wednesday ovenlug in Hershey.
Mrs. Omar Huff loft last evening
for Paxton to remain for a week or
more with friends.
W. E. Wessburg, of Omaha, came
yesterday to visit the Wessburg fami
ly for a couple of weeks.
Wanted Accommodations for teach
ers during Institute week, August 14
to IS. Phono County Superintendent.
Christian Scjeneo service Sunday
at 11 a. m. Sunday school at 12 m.
Room 25, Building and Loan building.
Mrs
CHAUTAUQUA PIUKJKAM l'LKASKS
PUOl'Li: BY ITS HXCKLLKXUi;
Tho Redpath-Hwner company Js
making good Its promise fchnt tho
191G Chautautiua talent would bo tho
best It had over presented to North
Platte p'eople, and that tho programs
are appreciated Is attested by the at
tendance at both tho afternoon and
oveulng BCssionH.
The program has been so arranged
that no session Is tlrecome, musical
features breaking the edges of any
weariness that might como to somo
sitting through a lecturo on such hot
days and evenings -as wo have had
since tho oponlng any,
-: :o: :
Fred Lathrop. of Chicago, will ar
rive Thursday of next week for a
month's visit with Mr. and Mrs. W.
J. Stuart.
Mr. and Mrs. V. J. Tlloy and Mr.
and Mrs. Ed Dickey nnd children re
turned yesterday from a two weeks'
auto trip to Denver, Colorado Springs
and Estes Park.
Miss May Dolan, of Chicago, for
merly of Maxwell, is visiting in town
this week with Mrs. Max Wcstfall.
Miss Dolan is a successful teacher In
the Chicago schodls.
E. A. Crosby, of Sutherland, was In
Building Acarlny Completion.
Tho Llpshitz building on the corner
of Front and Locust is nearlng com
pletion, and within the next few days
tho Front street room will be occu-ltown Wednesday enroute homo from
pled by the American Express Co., who i a trip to Chicago. He said the corn
have taken it on a five year lease. Mr. I conditions in Nebraska and Iowa are
Lipshltz will occupy tho rear room! not very encouraging.
r"8 1AL?c,,?lltrt' ""A?!11 1 Mr. and Mrs. Jesse Van Dyke, ac-
pxuuuuiy put. in u siuuiv ui mm uuuu-: . . , M11IW, Mr w
n.i i. . ...I.,... i... .... 'comnanled by Mr.
UlSU, UlU lUlLUIU Ul WHICH U IIUS HUU,. - . ,. -.,, .., fnr rPn
ii y dec ded. The second f oor of the '""""' , oV.Vin 1 m,; nrlint
imlifiimr win i, nnnnnioA l.v thi Mnnso vor, Colorado Springe and other points
I to spend several weeks.
Mr. and Mrs. Otto Well, who spent
building will bo occupied by the Moose
lodge as a hall
::o::
. ,....! ii several weeks lu eastern points vis
C. 0 SJS he , ttai,,s! , ? . '
that double that number are enter- j hom " California,
tained at tho rooming houses, or am The North Platte laundry has re
average of 120 each night. At a lowjceived a new auto delivery truck to
estimate these tourists leave ?J0U replace the wagon formerly used, 'l no
each day In North Platte. truck Is of a late model, attractive in
::o:: J appearance and conveniently ar-
Miss Ida Ottenstcin. who visited m' ranged to carry all sizes of parcels.
Omaha with friends for a week, has' James H. Winterstceu, for many
returned. I vears a traveling man making North
Charles Strauss 'returned Wedues-I Patto. died at his home in Fremont
day from Cheyenne where toWt.- 2? S
Journal, and prior to that Omaha
printing houses. "Jim" was oneof the
Jolllest men on the road.
Dry weather Is having consider
able effect on the corn crop In differ
ent sections of the county, especially
In fields that have not boon well
worked. During the past week there
havo been local rains In certain sec
tions, and these have kept the corn
In good growing condition, but tak
ing tho county as a whole tho crop
needs rain badly.
last weeK. -
Mrs. Will Friend will entertain tho
Catholic girls' club on Thursday ev
ening, August 10th.
Miss Silleson, of Keystone, came a
few days ago to visit Mr. and Mrs.
Fredw Frederickson.
Mrs. Matt Offil loft for Kearney
last evening, after visiting at the homo
of Mr. and Mrs. L. E. Hastings.
A regular meeting of tho W. R. C.
will be held tomorrow afternoon. All
members are urged to be present.
Mr. and Mrs. Wolland, of Britt, la.,
arrived last evening too .visit their
daughter. Mrs. Edward Robinson, for
two weeks.
Onenlni: Tuesday afternoon with a
E. B. Gibbs and daughter Mrs. ' n)roiuti0 i,v ho Hungarian orchestra
and a loctu.ro 'by JSx-uongrossman
Bode, of Minnesota, and followed by
a concert by the orchestra In tho ev
ening, tho first day gave thoso in
attendance somo Idea as to 1ho
real goodness or the seven-day pro
gram. Mr. Bedo again lectured Wed
nesday afternoon with music by tho
Schubert artists, and in tho ovonlng
Dr. Hardin dolivored a locturo on
t'Ch'Jllzntlon aU tho dross 'Roads "
with n proludo by tho Schuborts. Yos
uerday afternoon Julius Nayphe, a
Oreok, gave a dramatic locturo, using
a half dozen young girls In Grecian
costumes and displaying on tho plat
form Grecian rugs and hangings. In
tho evening Noah Bellhorz, an Im
personator, held tho stago. Bolllno,
an accordeon playor furnished the
music both attornoon and evening.
What the munagmnent calls tho
"big four" aro yet to come. Ono of
theso will bo the Thaviu band which
occupies all of this afternoon with a
concert; tho second Is Governor
Glenn, Avho lectures tomorrow nftor
noon; the third "The Molting Pot" to
morrow evening, and tho fourth the
Hadyn chorus Monday ovonlng. While
theso aro hoadllners, thoro mill bo
the opera singers this ovonlng, mus
ical rtecitnls by Alfred Borgon to
morrow' "afternoon and ovonlng, and
impersonations by Ethel Hlnton In
the afternoon; Sunday afternoon se
lections by Estclle Gray pianist nnd
Mischa Lhovlnno Russian pianist and
sermon-locturo by Dr. Haywood;
Sunday evening tho Gray company
again and an address by Dr. Hay
wood. Monday nfternoon the Haydn
chorus will give a proludo followed
by an address by W. I. Nolan, and In
the evening the concert by tho Haydn
chorus.
::o::
Grading has been campletcd on six
blocks, the curb and gutter finished
and theso are now ready for tho con
crete base, the laying of which will
probably begin the early part or next
Atr Annn Ttofimnnil. who has been' week. Handicapped by inability to
ill for some time, was taken to the get laborers the work has not moved
North Platte General hospital yester- ' along as rapidly as was expected or
dnv afternoon ' is desired by Contractor Stack, but
,,.,, ,. , ho hopes to secure additional work
Tho Palace Ca o dining room lias weok-
honn Imnrnvpil with a number of now
leather-covered chairs and other at-! C. A. Sibley, of the south part of
tractive furnishings. the caunty, is transacting business
T , , , , . i . and visiting friends in town today.
The Loyal girls and the ladles biblo, t C!oon.r ni i.n wiuit nmn in hia
class of the Methodist church will hold section Mr slbley says lt la tho best
i coin rtf fniile nrwl fnnpl' rnrwlllfr . . , . .....
diuu w ....... o , im una ovon anon in m m rnirrv vi'iirH
Saturday at Derryberry & Forbes
Tho Misses O'Haro entertained a
few friends Wednesday evening at tho
O'Keefe homo in favor of Mrs. Anna
Woods, of Salt Lake, formerly of this
.city.
resiidonco. the ylold running from
twenty-five to forty bushels and
weighing from sixty to sixty-four
pounds. Corn is in pretty fair condi
tion, though the dry weather has had
Its effect on some fields.
Koonlz us u Water User.
John E. Koontz reports that the
numbor of gallons of water used each
day on tho streot sprinkler since tho
dry spell Is from 25,000 to 30,000 gal
lons and during tho hot dry winds of
last week ho took out over thirty-two
loads, each load containing soven hun
dred and fifty gallons, and only using
ono team. Even this amount did not
keep the main streets and intersections
moist, but only ono complaint was
heard from the morchants. Tho
sprinkler Is in uso from soven o'clock
a. m. until six thirty p. in. Mr. Koontz
has his own pump operated by oloc
tilclty and last month ho used eleven
dollars worth of tho camo, moro than
any oilier month In live years.
::o;:
City Sells Puvliitc Bonds.
Tho city council met In regular ses
sion Tuosdny evening. Tho Intersec
tion paving bonds wero Bold to the state
treasurer for $10,000 or par. Cur
ront bills iworo allowed as was tho
first estlinato of tho paving for $3200.
W. R. Mnlonoy, representing tho
Chamber of Comniorco, mado a request
for tho hitching posts which wero
takon from Fifth street bo placed on
a convenient slto for tho farmers and
this request Was granted. This mat
ter will bo given prompt attention.
::o::
Tho drought was broken Sunday
attornoon by a good rain, followed
Monday by showers and Tuosday ov
onlng by a downpour. Tho weathor
had been very hot and dry for sovoral
weeks, and theso nuns will probably
bo tho making of corn In this vicinity.
Brady Vindicator.
Charles Roach left last evening for
Omaha to spend a few days.
STATU KMTOKS WILL VISIT
)KTII PLATTi: MIDAS
Two hundred Nebraska editors and
their ladles will bo entertained by tho
Chamber of Commerce Friday fore
noon or next week. These nowspaper
men will atop enroute homo from the
editorial association meeting at Al
liance. Tho full program for their
entertainment has not been complet
ed, but thoy will bo met nt tho depot
at eight o'clock by autos and con
veyed to tho Btato farm where break
fast will bo served by a committee
of Indies. An hour or two will bo
spont nt tho farm, and then return
ing to town tho visitors will be driv
en around the city.
The party which travels on a spe
clnl train, will leave for the east at
olovon o'clock, stopping nt Kearney
for dlunor.
::o::
Urlvo Slow lu li ratty.
Marshal Elliott arrested two auto
spoelorR on Main sreet (Saturday
nlglir; Mayor Dart lined one of the
oft'eodera $10.00 nnd costs and Judgo
Rltonour assessed the same amount
ngnlust tho other ono. Each paid into
tho vlllago treasury $13.05. The mar
shal says ho Is determined to stop fust
driving In tho village. Brady Vindi
cator. ::o::
Tho Royal Neighbors will hold their
regular meeting at tho If.,. P. hall
Wednesday afternoon at 3 o'clock.
Initiation will bo held after which a
lunch will bo served by Mesdamci
Moore, Dnvls and Johnson.
Wanted Girl for general houso-
work. Experimental station, phono.
499.
The Entro Nous wore tho guests of
Mrs. Harry S. Johnosn Wednesday
aftornoon. Prizes wero won by Mrs.
E. M. Johnston and Mrs. Asa Snyder,
and guest prizes g"lven to Mrs. Will
Wolsgerber nnd Miss McMurray.
Other, guests of tho club woro Mrs.
Chas. Lierk. Jr., and Mrs. McMullen.
The club wll be entertained next
Wednesday ovening by Mrs. E. M.
Johnston at 8 Vclock sharp. A11
members aro urged to bo present.
The Gunderson Brothers, living
southwest of Hershey, threshed the
Wheat on 200 acres last week and
found the avorago to bo a Uttlo over
seventeen bushels to the acre. On
summer tilled land the average was
twenty bushels.
Vho Rowena Circle will hold a reg
ular meeting at tho home of Mrs. Ot
to Weber,, 314 west Front street Tues
day afternoon, August 8. All aro
urged to be present.
Mrs. Bruco Dye, of California, for
merly Miss Pearl Gilbert, of this city,
iwlio hud been visiting in eastorn
point' for) several weeks, returned
hero last evening to visit Mrs. Sarah
Duggan.
Miss Cathorlne McCuskor, of Oga
lalla, is boing entertained this week
by Miss Margaret McGlnley.
FARMERS' ASSISTANT
.Many fanner keep a check account
nlfh us been use It is a ureal help and
oonTculoiicu when the rushing work of
harvest Is on.
When you sell your rraiu this fall,
deposit (he money In (his Bank sub
Joct to cheek.
Settle all purchases, wiipcs, and
loans by check and (Jie cancelled
vouchers wll supply you with lepal receipts.
Platte Valley State Bank
North Platte, Nebraska.
j-
QUALITY in construction, design,
finish, appearance a really high
class motor car that is your first
and last impression of the Maxwell.
In first cost it is several hundred
dollars less than any other car offering
the same quality and advantages.
operation the cost of gasoline
:nd tires is so low it means the utmost
economy.
This combination should make you
consider the Maxwell should mean
that you will buy it if you really want
value. Let us prove these statements.
Touring Car 3595; Roadster $580; Cabriolet $865; Town Car $915; Sedan $985.
Fully equipped, including electric starter and tights. All prices f. o. b. Detroit.
THE TROTTER AGENCY. NORTH PLATTE and BRADY.
