First
Maui County Fair!
Nov. 30, Dec. 1 and 2
Boost The
Maui County Fair
VOLUME XXIII.
WAILUKU, MAUI CO., HAWAII. AUGUST 4, 1916.
NUMBER 24
1 4
t. 4
Ancient Tabu Seals
Lips OfOld Native
Historical Investigator Has Unusual
Experience In East Maui T. G.
Thrum Urges Historical Society For
Maui
Thomas G. Thrum, the wellknown
.antiquary of Honolulu, returned home
on Wednesday after two weeks spent
In investigations In east Maul and in
the Kula district. His work was in
terfered with somewhat by illness but
he gleaned considerable information
of interest In spite of this. He failed,
however, to find any heiaus of wh'ch
he had not already a record. He visit
ed a number of these ancient temples
about Kaupo and Kipahulu,- however,
and added somewhat in matter of
detail to what Is already known about
them, from observation and Interviews
with the older residents of the dis
tricts. In Kula Mr. Thrum also visit
ed a number of heiau sites, but most
of them are in poor state.
A singular experience, Mr. Thrum
relates, in meeting a very old Hawaii
an who evidently knew considerable
concerning the location of some of the
antiquarian structures for which Mr.
Thrum was searching, but who insist
ed that the subject was absolutely ta
bu and that he had been sworn to
secrecy by his father. This Is the only
instance of this kind, Mr. Thrum
states, that he has ever encountered
during his life-time of work along
these lines.
Urges Historical Society
"I was much interested in the sug
gestion of YV. O. Smith that a historic
al society be formed in Maui for the
preservation of data of special in
terest to this island. Through the in
terest of the ltev. Mr. Lydgate and. a
number of others, Kauai has done
some good work through its historical
society, but Maui is a much richer
field for this kind of work than Kauai.
I sincerely hope that some one will
take tho lead in organizing such a
society for Maui."
Kahului Church Organ
Recital Pleases Many
On Sunday evening last a large
audience was present at the Kahului
Union Church when the first service
was held after the installation of the
organ. The Instrument was a gift of
the Paia Union Church to the Kahului
Cnurch. The Bergstrom brothers took
down the organ and erected it in Ka
hulu'. Its tone mellowed by age, and
inr a building of much superior acoust
ics, those who have heard the instru
ment believe that it has never sound
ed so well. The church building was
enlarged to accomodate it. When the
changes were being made the pretty
edifice was painted inside and out.
Beside the generous g!ft of the organ
the Paia Church also presented the
Kahului parish with matting, pew
cushions and the railings in the old
structure at Makawao that is now
demolished.
Miss Carrie E. Short, who is on a
brief visit to Maui of a few weeks
played the organ. This was Miss
Short's first appearance before a Maui
audience since she leXt , hero in
1914. During her absence she has
played some of the largest and finest
organs on the coast, and is an ac
complished musician. The playing on
Sunday evening was greatly enjoyed.
Her opening program consisted of: 1.
Reverie, Saint-Saens; 2. Pilgrims
Chorus, Wagner; 3. Intermezzo, Dal
ibes; 4. March for a Church Festival,
Best; 5. To a Wild Rose, Macdowell.
The vocal music of the evening was
most, attractive. The choir consisting
of Kahului people and Miss Helena J.
Walter renders Roberts' "See. Ye the
Lord" and ''Jesus and Shall it Ever
He" most acceptably, while Miss Walt
er's solo "Christ at the Door" was
excellently rendered. Mr. Kenneth
Smith, on the violin played with
beautiful expression the Angels' Sere
nade. The pastor of the Church Rev. Ellis
E Pleasant, preached a strong sermon
upon '"The Call of the Carpenter,"
taking as his text Luke 2:49. He was
listened to most appreciatively by the
audience, which was made up of
people from all portion of Cenual
Maui.
MAUI MAN WINS TRAVEL TRIZE
Because he has been one of th.
leaders among the business-getters of
the Western Reserve Life Insurance
Company, C. I. Lufkin will leave for
the Coast on the 15ih inst. as a guest
of the company to attend the bit; an
nual conference of insurance men 'in
Southern California. It is the first
time that an insurance man in the
Islands, outside of Hoaolului has ever
won such a trip. Mr. Lufkin will be
accompanied by his wife, and will
spend about two months on the ma'n
land. Mrs. Lufkin will be away for
perhaps a month longer visiting
friends in the eastern states.
Maui School Boy Is
On Mexican Border
Worth Aiken Surprised To Hear That
Son Is Out Of School And With A
National Guard Company At The
Border
"Somewhere In Texas," about three
miles from the Mexican line, young
Hcrtram Aiken, son of Mr. and Mrs.
Worth Aiken, of Makawao Is encamp
ed with a company of volunteer
troops. This is the rather startling
information which the young man's
parents received by the mails this
week, and was the first intimat'on
they had had that he was not quietly
pursuing his studies in Valparaiso.
Indiana, where he has been attending
a military academy.
When the national guard troops of
Indiana were called out, it seema that
the cadet company to which Bertram
belonged, was also included, pid con
sequently he is vow doinp border duty
as a soldier. More than that, ho has
won a marksmanship record next to
tho highest in his company, of which
fact he is obviously proud. According
to his letter he has been quite wtil
pleased with his experiences thus far,
and is looking forward with eagerness
to anyth'iig else that may be on the
card.
New Promotion Folder
Booms Maui Fishing
, "Fishing has been punk so far
thi3 season, but why should I
worry it will soon be time to
return to the best fishing ground
In the world.. See?" (Extract
from letter of J. W. Jump, the
world renowned game fisher,
man, writing from Los Angeles
to H. Gooding Field. Mr. Jump
is expected within the next few
weeks at the head of a party of
iouthern California fishermen.)
8
Maui comes in for a very generous
share of attention in the new folder
"Game Fishing in Hawaiian Waters"
just published by the Hawaii Promo
tion Committee. The pamphlet is
written by H. Gooding Field, father of
the Hawaii Tuna Club, and is elabor
ately illustrated with photographic re
productions of specimens of the Ha
waiian game fishes taken by rod and
reel during the past five or six months.
Each of the more important varieties
is briefly described. A paragraph in
the booklet advises that a club bouse
and hotel accommodations have been
provided at Kihei, Maui, for the conv
enience of anglers, and that this
point is adjacent to the famous Molo
klnt fishing grounds, probably the best
in the Territory. Thousands of these
folders are now being d'strlbuted a
mong sportsmen on the mainland.
COCKETT HOLOHOLOKULANI
At the Waikapu Church ,at 7:30 o'
clock last evening, Miss Mary E. P.
Holoholokulani and Mr. William E.
Cockett, two well known young people
of central Maui, were un'ted in marr
iage by the Rev. L. B. Kaumeheiwa
in the presence of a large gathering
of friends . Following the ceremony a
reception was held at the home of the
groom's parents Mr. and Mrs. Joseph
Cockett ,of Waikapu, together with an
elaborate dinner, at which the more
intimate Xriends of the family were
present.
Both Mr. Cockett who is denutv tav
assessor for'va'luku district, and his
bride, are exceedingly popular in the
community. Mrs. Cockett whose
home was in Waimea, Hawaii, was
teacher of domestic science in Puu-
nene school last term, but bhe has
been appointed for the coining school
year to a similar position in ti e Wai-
luku public school. They plan to
leave tomorrow evening for a short
wedding trip to the Uig Island before
going to housekeeping at Waikapu.
RACING ASSOCIATION
MEETING TONIGHT
An importing meeting of the. Maui
Racing Association is to be held at
7:30 o'clock this even'ng at the Wailu
ku Town Hall. A report will be
heured concerning the last meet, and a
number of applications for member
ship will be acted upon. It 's probable
that some important decisions will be
arrived at regarding the holding of
noxi. years event.
CAN FACTORY TO RESUME
The plant of the American Can Com
pany i.i Ha'ku, which was biiut down,
presumably for the season some
weeks ago, is too be put in operation
again for a few weeks in order to
make up a shortage in containers due
to a somewhat heavier paek than had
been counted on. In the absence of
the superintendent, H. Kinherg, who
is on llie coast, the plant will be oper
ated by M. J. Lewis, foreman of the
company's plant in Honolulu.
Harvest Home Dance
To Open Club House
Annual Puuncnc Festival Plans Rapidly
Taking Shape Tennis And Bowl
ing Will Be Features Probably
No Polo
Invitations will go out the first of
the week for the big annual Harvest
Home Festival of the Hawaiian Com
mercial and Sugar Company, which
will take place on Saturday, August 12,
at Puunene. The affair promises to
be even more attractive than ever, atul
many visitors from Honolulu will be
present Including the Honolulu ten
n's and bowling teams which each
year compete with the Puunene Athl
etic Club teams. There will probably
also be some of the crack swimmers
from the city to try conclusions with
local sprinters in the big Puunene
tank. The athletic events will begin
at 9 o'clock. There will be the usual
lunch served at noon time.
The day's pleasures will end with
the ball In the evening, which will be
held this year in th? new club house
but recently completed. In Xact this
will be the first dance to be held in
the ne-.v structure. It Is expected to
make it one of the notable dances of
the year.
There will probably not be a polo
match this year, as there was last, a
Manager Baldwin who is a member of
the Maui team will not bo home until
next week.
All Puunene Now
Drinks Pure Water
Great Filter System Giving Splendid
Results Practically All Camps
Now Using New Supply Less
Typhoid Than Formerly
A story that would have been true
had it been published about two years
years ago, got into print in Honolulu
this week.to the effect that the Puune
ne plantationwas to start work at once
upon a tystem of filter beds for sup
plying drinking water to the various
camps, at a cost of $150,000. The
truth of the matter Is that these great
filters, covering several acres of
ground, and of the most modern and
scientific construction, were finished
some six months ago, and since that
time most of the plantation camps
have been connected up to the new
supply. Within another month or
two this work will have been com
pleted, and the entire plantation will
be drinking water that is claimed to
be absolutely safe.
That the improvement has already
been of greatest value is evidenced
by the fact that this year there has
been almost no typhoid fever on the
Puunene plantation, where in former
years it was at times prevalent. The
water forthe filtersystem is takenfrom
the Lowrie ditch. It all passes through
a bed of sand and gravel some five
feet thick, which is cleaned at frequ
ent intervals. Outside of some of the
larger cities on the mainland there is
probably no Buch extensive water
purification system in the world than
that of the Hawaiian Commercial &
Sugar Company at the present time.
LUNCH FOR MRS. McCONKEY.
Mrs. Wielhur F. MrCnnkev was the
honored PUPst lnnt SntllrHnv at un
elaborate buffet luncheon arranged by
a member of ladies of Kuiaha and
g'ven at the home of Mrs. W. I. Wells.
Twenty-one guests gathered to enjoy
the affair and bid farewell to Mrs. Mc.
Conkey, who leaves for the Coast on
the August Manoa.
SUDDEN DEATH OF
WAILUKU RESIDENT
Joseph Oliveira, one of the oldest
and best known Portuguese residents
of Maui, died at the M-lulani Hospital
last Monday night following a stroke
of paralysis which occured last Friday
morning. The deceased was about 55
years of age and is survived by a Wife
and 8 children. The funeral was held
at 3 o'clock on Tuesday afternoon,
internment being in the Wailuku
Catholic cemetery. It wps largely at
tended. His home was in Wailuku.
Mr. Oliveira camo to Hawaii 38 years
ago and had live'd practically all of
that time in Maui. His illness and
death came as a shock to his family,
as he had been previously in good
health, Beoides the widow, tho fol
lowing children are left: Joseph, Lib
by, and Enos, of Maui; John and
Frank, residents of Oakland; and An
tone, Rosalie, and Manuel, of Honolu
lu. CARD OF THANKS
..Mrs. Joseph Oliveira and children
take th's means of expressing their
heartfelt appreciation to the many
friends who remembered them in var
ious ways on the occasion of the tak
ing away of their husband and father,
and to thank them particularly for the
profusion of floral tokens sent.
Building Boom Also
Extends To Lahaina
Whole Street To Be Rebuilt Will
Have New Fish Market Board
Of Health Will Have More Work
Done In Wailuku
Scarcity of carpenters, masons, and
plumbers is the reason that a great
deal more work in the construction
line is not under way on Maui at
present than was indicated iu last's
week's Maul News. Nor is central
Maui the only center of (his unusual
activity. Lahaina is also experien
cing a bu'lding boom and will soon
in sections at least .look like a new
town. On the mauka side of Main St.
all the small store, buildings from
the new Lahaina ttore to the Lahaina
bank are to be replaced with more
modern and sanitary structures. The
building materials for the purpose
have been on hand for some time .but
work is delayed on account of scarcity
ol workman.
Lahr.ina is also to soon have a new
sanitary fish market . Plans have been
prepared for this structure which will
soon supersede the present row of
shacks which at present house the
fish Blalls. A substantial new garage
building is being constructed by Geo.
Freeland, and W. L. Decoto will soon
have a up-to-date new meat market
building.
As in Wa'luku the activity of the
territorial board of health has in con
siderable measure been responsible
for the wholesale reconstruction,
though Inspector Osmer states that
the property owners have very gen
erally been very willing to carry out
the board's suggestions. According
to the sanitay inspector, practically
all of the makai side of Market St.
Wailuku, is to be rebuilt within a
short space of time, excepting of
course a number of buildings which
are of sanitary character .
Homesteaders Want
MacadamRoad Oiled
Loan Fund Commission Takes Matter
Under Advisement Oheo Bridge
Plans Approved Want County
To Help On Kahakuloa Road
The Loan Fund Commissioners, at
their meeting on Tuesday afternoon,
approved the plans for the Oheo
bridge in the liana district, the survey
of the homestead road through Lots
29 and 30, of the east Kuiaha tract,
and passed the matter of right of way
through Lot 33 up to the couty.
The board also listened to W. I.
Wells and W'll. J. Cooper, represent
ing a committee of the Haiku Farm
ers' Association while they presented
the opinion of theassociat ion. that the
new macadam road through the
homesteads should be oil sur.
faced if it is to be of perm
anent value. The Haiku farmers have
definitely decided that no effort should
be spared to have this one road made
as substantial as it can be made.
rather than to spread the money avail
able over various projects in the com
munity which would be of but tempor
ary benefit. The board took no ac
tion on the matter.
Kahakuloa Road Extension Again
The loan fund members are again
taking up the matter of getting the
county to co-operate with it in carry
ing through the extension of the road
to the Kahakuloa flats on the north
s'de of west Maui, for which the com
missioners have only a part of the
needed money. If the county can see
its way clear to stand its part of the
cost, work will probably soon be ord
ered on the extension.
KAMAINA RESIDENT DIES
IN HONOLULU
Edward A. Krueger the well-known
turnkey of the county jail, was called
to Honolulu last Friday by the news
of the death of his wife which occur
red as result of cancer of the stom
ach. Although Bhe had been ill for
some time it was not supposed that
her condition was critical ,and Mr.
Krueger was unable to reach her bed
side before the end came. The deceas
ed was a native of Maul and was wide.
ly known a Unit Wailuku. She was 65
years of age, and is survived by a
number of grown children besides her
husband . Tho burial took place in
Kawaiahao cemetery, Honolulu.
WARNERS ARE NOW
IN CALIFORNIA
Friends in Wailuku have received
word from A. C. Warner, formerly sug
ar boiler for the- Wailuku Sugar Com
pany, that he and his family are now
in Orange Couniy, California where
Mr. Warner holds a position with a
big beet sugar concern. After leaving
Maui i lie Warners were until recently
connected with tho Kahuku Sugar
Company on Oalm.
ALLIES NOW HAMMER
EVERY TEUTON FRONT
Germans Making Strong Resistence And Keeping
Up Air And Sub-Sea Raiding Submarine
Deutschland Puts To Sea Arrest Made In
San Francisco Romb Case Sir Roger
Casement Hanged As Traitor
HONOLULU, August 4 Trustees wrangle over appointment of
Charles King on Bishop Estate hoard. Will go to supreme court. Ap
peal is talfen hy the Estate. King files bond for $20,000. Judge Ash
ford signs lengthy decree refusing to confirm Williamson.
Rockefeller money seeks outlook henv. .National City Bank, of
New York unsuccessfully bids for Hawaiian industries.
Territory seeks tit! to gore lot. Attorney General preparing suit
to get possession for municipal building. Th.resa Wilcox is classed as
a squatter. Litigation is based upon additional grants made by ancient
chieftain of Oahu. Stangnwald site here under negotiations. Castle
estate is closing deal to sell valuable property. Henry Waterhouse
Trust Company is the purchaser.
PARIS, August 4 French litue gains north of Mouse and river
Somme. German general stiT admits loss of trenches in minor fighting
in two battle fronts of we.st. British also repulsed Teuton counter-attack.
Russians continue offensive against Turks in the Caucasus and
reort fresh victories.
WASHINGTON, August 4 Solons may avert strike on railroads
of mainland. Eery agency at disposal of federal government is being
used to prevent tie-up. .Situation is acute and Congress awaits. Presi
dent gets in touch with situation to intervene, should 450,000 men walk
out and paralyze traffic.
LONDON, August 4 Germany resumes ruthless raids with Zep
jK'lins. Italian liner Letimbro, carrying crew of 57, and 113 passengers,
sunk. Torpedo launched without warning. Six other vessels, some
carrying neutral flags, arc also sent to bottom.
Jutland wins great war. Allies successes follow. Balfour says
naval battle turned tide of war for Entente powers.
WASHINGTON, August -1 Supreme Justices likely to arbitrate.
Mexican commissioners are ready to leave City of Mexico for confer
ence. NE WYORK, August 4 Strike of garment workers near end. Dif
ferences have been aoj ailed.
BROWNSVILLE, August 4 Young militiamen at border aqe
guarding against floods.
SAN FRANCISCO, August 4 Henry Clausen, 9th victim of bomb
outrage to succumb.
LONDON, August 3 Germans launched biggest air raid of war in
early morning hours today on eastern England. Dropped bombs at a
number ot widely separated iomts. Up to present time 80 bombs are
known to have been dropped. Killing of 9 horses only effect known.
One of the Zeppelins caught by shaft of light from searchlight was im
mediately fired uion by anti-aircraft guns. Six Zeppelins, and large
number of aeroplanes in fleet.
PARIS, August 3 North of the Somme today Germans attempted
to retake the position around Monacu farm. Were repulsed. F flench
today are busy consolidating and organizing their new position between
Monacu and Hemwood. On the right of Mcuse today the French made
substantial progress, south of Clery. 1100 Germans taken prisoner since
August 1.
BERLIN, August 3 French today Onetratcd German lines at Mo
nacu farm. Took trench section north of Monacu hamlet. North of
Verdun there was considerable lighting today. Germans took French
trench section.
LONDON, August 3 British steamer Brittanic and British sail
ing vessel MargarH Sutton sunk in war zone. No cause or casualties
given.
HAVRE, August 3 Belgian gun-boat Netta sunk German gun
boat Graf von Gotzen on lake Canganyta.
VIENNA, August 3 Italian submarine Giacinto Bulino, operating
in Adriatic, was captured in northern part of sea and taken to Pola with
21 prisoners.
LONDON, August 3 Crowd cheers as Casement is hanged for
hightreason. Groans and prayers from spectator as execution is an
nounced completed. Relatives were refused their request for the body.
"I die for my country," declared former Irish leader as he ascended the
scaffold.
NEW YORK, August 3 Two hundnvd and seventeen new cases of
infantile paralysis.
HONOLULU, August 3 Apiointment of Charles King scheduled
fur ratification this afternoon in court. New trustee may be summoned
to qualify. Appeal to supreme court from judge Ashford's decision is
expected.
Keeping up of ship inspection pleases board of health.
Compromise of G. O. 1'. failing to materialize. Meeting called for
Monday night is expected to bring things to a climax. Chairman Bemdt
hoj)es for harmonious outcome. Stand-patters apiear willing to say
nothing and hold committee pl ues.
(Continued on Page Two.)
MARY IS YOUNG BUT Hfc'R MATRI
MONIAL EXPERIENCES ARE
LAI.CE
When Mary Dolores Ah I'gha, an
18-year old Spanish di vorcee who
looks several years younger, applied
on lucsday evening to Marriage
Liceuse Clerk Crockett for a licejL.se
to wed again, her request was denied
because she had niglecled to bring
witn her her decree of divorce from
her Korean husband. She and the
Filipino who sought the new permit
left, apparently much disappointed but
promising to return vi''i tho divorce
de -ree the following day. And Mary
did return, but she had changed her
mind over night for this time she was
accompanied by a duierent Filipino,
and it was him she finally d!d many.
The girl was divorced about 10 days
ago 0:1 grounds of non support, the
decree becoming effective on August
1. She has two children.
FINED FOR SECOND
DECREE LARCENY
Albert Piters, an employe of the
Maui Agricultural Company, was fl ne
ed $25 by Judge McKay, 1 his morning,
on conviction of having stolen a lot of
to. ils and other suppl es from the l'aia
warehouse where lie had been employ
ed. The fine was paid by relatives,
l'eti rs who recently came to Maui
from Honolulu, is a young part Hawai
ian of rather preposcssing appearance.
In pleading for a light sentence for his
client, -Attorney Crockett told the
court that the boy had been married
less than a week before to a young
l'aia girl.
