"Seen on the Side'
A V.-D. Editorial Page Feature
?Light, Bright and Unique
Sirfimond 3Tiracs
C6th YEAR
volume ?ie
\i min;ii '-rm
RICHMOND, VA., FRIDAY, AUGUST 4, 191f>.
? Haskinji Letters
Always on The T.-D Editorial
Page and Always Interesting
TWELVE PAGES.
\\ katiikii |,' A I D
i\\<;k ^ i rv
PRICE, TWO CENTS,
Signal of Execution Brings
-M o c k i n g, Jeering Yell
From Crowd Outside.
GOES TO HIS DEATH
WITH CALM COURAGE
Little Group of Irishmen and
Women Silently Prays for
Repose of Soul.
TO Ili;UY BODY IX QUICKLIME.
SlronunuK KfTorts Mmlo to Very End
to Secure Reprieve for
Prisoner.
I/'NDOX, August 3.'?Wit!) only two
chaplains and minor officials of t li o
government looking on. Roger Case
ment, once knighted for his ser\ice*
to the crown while a British cqnsul.
was hanged as a traitor in the Peo
tonvllle Jail here to-day.
The traji was sprung at oni> minute
,^ft<>r 9 o'clock. and when a single
stroke of the prison >???? 11 announced the
g'im fact to a waiting crowd outside,
a chorus of cheers and groans replied,
while at one spot a group of about
thirty Irish men and women f ?? 11 on
their knees and grayed for the soul
of their fellow-countryman.
j '"riscment. convicted of conspiring to
cs.i.:$c an armed revolt In Ireland, and
with having sought Oertnan aid to thar
end. met his death with calm courage,
ftci-ordlr. to witnesses, and Ills last
utterance was: "I 'lie for my country."
Karly In the morning two jriests of
the Roman f*ath??lle '"hurch admin
istered the ias? rites In the cell of
the condemned man. and shortly ,-ifter,
h little profession, headed by the
clergymen with Casement folh wing,
a warden on either side, proceeded to
the execution siied, only five yards
away.
commkvds si'iurr to c.oii
AS UK STKI'S ON Tit AI*
A ?' arty reached the sh.-d where
'!) gallows was erected, the s;,r.<-ial
executioner, a hairdresser named Kills,
approached Casement and quickly
pinioned him. T! e two c). (plains, the
under-sheriff of i.ondon and the nn
der-.-herlff of Middlesex then took up
their positions in front of the scaffold.
Casement mounted the gallows steps
firmly, and commended his spirit to
'?(id a s he stepped on the trap. A
moment later the lever was ; tilled.
Casement was pronounced dead at nine
minutes after I) o'clock.
According to the custom in the case
J( prisoners hanged for crimes similar
to that of Casement, his body will be
buried in quicklime in the prison yard,
but probably no decision as to the
bt.-.al will lie made until after the
Inquest.
TIIItKK .NOTH'KS OK IlKATI!
I'OSTKI) ON I'll I SOX noon
Immediately after the execution three
y dues were posted on the prison door,
.'he first. signed by the under-sheriff
of I.ondon. the governor of the prison,
and Father James McCarrell, Case
ment's confessor, read:
"Judgment of death was this day
executed on Roger David Casement in
Mis Majesty's prison of Pentonville in
our presence." A similar notice was
signed by the" under-sheriff of Middle
sex County. The third bore the name
of P. R. Mander. the prison surgeon,
who certified that he had examined the
body and found Casement dead.
Ellis, the executioner, arrived In the
prison early last evening, and imme
diately made his preparations. He
^tamined the trapdoor In the execution
;rfi<?d and tested it thoroughly with a
hag exactly the same weight as Case
ment. Ellis remained in the prison all
' ight
Casement showed not the slightest
concern over his fate. lie ate well and
chatted freely and cheerily with two
wardens in liis condemned cell. After
a hearty late supper, he divested him
self for the last time of his convict
clothes and went to lied. He was noti
\f.fd that he would be. allowed to wear
his own civilian clothes for the execu
tion, though he would not be permitted
to wear collar.
Casement rose about 5:30 this i lin
ing. From then until 7 o'clock, lien
Father McCarrell arrived, be spent the
time reading the instructions of iho
church for assisting at mass and the
taking of the first Communion. After
mass, he ate a little bread and butter
and drank a glass of water.
MAKES KKW It KM An ICS A not T
IM MOItTAI.ITV or son,
lie had very little to say to the priest,
onl.V making a few remarks about the
immortality of tho soul. He appeared,
said Father McCarrell, like a man vho
had slept soundly?his nerves -re
completely calm. .
A coroner's jury found that the u
tet.oe had been carried out in accord
ance with law and in a humane manner,
flavin Duffy, Casement's solicitor, who
appeared in behalf of relatives, identi
fied Hie body.
Replying to a question by the cor
oner. Solicitor Duffy said that Case
ment's health at times was very bnd.
He made a plea that the body be handed
over to relatives, which tho authori
ties. lie said, had refused. The coroner
declared ho had no power to interfere,
whereupon Duffy protested, saying It
whs a "monstrous act of indecency that
the authorities should refuse the ro
?juest."
According to one news agency, Case
ment had high hnpijs of helng roprieved
jntil 'he eve of his execution. He did
(Continued on Third Page.)
WKKK-KNO ItATKS
CHKSAPEAKK AM) OHIO RAILWAY.
Tickets en nnie at low rates to White
Sulphur. Hot .SprlngH and Mountain Resort
Stations every Friday and Saturday. .Good
?eturnlng to arrive Richmond not later
.h*n Tuesday morning following.?Adv.
:v ? ?.
New Forces Added
to Plague Fight
Prominent Pathologists and
Bacteriologists Selected to
Study Disease.
NEW YORK. August 3.?New forces
worn to-day added to the campaign
ae:iinsl the epidemic of infantile pa
ralysis here when two committees com
I posed of prominent pathologists and
.bacteriologists from all over the coun
1 try were selected to study the disease
I In all its ramifications. The naming
i iif the committees followed a confer
? once of the experts at the College of
Physicians and Surgeons of Columbia
University.
TIip number of deaths and new cases
reached a new high mark with tho
twenty-four hotys ending at 10 o'clock
to-day. New cases totaled 217, ami the
number of deaths was forty-three.
Health Commissioner Haven Emerson
announced to-night that tlic* death rate
of tiie present epidemic was now 20
per cent of the cases reported, while
in 1907 it was only .1 per cent.
'if the committees named at the con
ference of experts. Hie first is to take
I up a laboratory investigation of the
j nature, eommunicability and virulence
of the disease. Dr. Simon Flexner, of
the Rockefeller Institute f<>i Medical
Research. was made chairman.
The second committee is to devise
practical methods for the prevention of
the disease and its spread.
The members of the committees to
day visited one hospital here and
studied various cases of infantile pa
ralysis. To-morrow they will visit the
more infected parts of the city.
TOBACCO MEN FIGHT ORDER
,\%k Mate Department to Protest
\gnlont Han on Shipment* Into
tacriiinny mid Austria.
(Special t<> The Times-Dispatch. 1
WASHINGTON, August 3.?Kentucky
and North Carolina tobacco companies
to-day Joined hands with the Richmond
and Lynchburg Arms in an effort to
havrj the ban again raised by Great
Britain against American tobacco ship
ments into Germany and Austria
through neutral Kuropean ports. S<-n
.itor t >1 lie .lames, of Kentucky, and
Senator Simrnons, of North Carolina, at
the request of tobacco firms of their
States, went to the State Department
and asked that a vigorous protest bo
made against Great Britain's latest
order. Senator Martin called at the
department yesterdaj and asked that.
Groat Britain he requested to suspend
the order until present contracts can
he filled, pending a final settlement of
the whole question.
If Great Britain insists upon enforc
'lug her latest order against tobacco
shipments to the central powers, many
Kentucky and North Carolina firms de
clare it will partially paralyze their
business. The hulk of the V irginia
tobacco to Teutonic firms is shipped
from Richmond and Lynchburg.
THOMAS B. FELDER STABBED
Mliintn Attorney Serlouwly Wounded
by Doorkeeper of I.titter IIoiimc
of tieorglu Assembly.
ATLANTA, OA., August 3.?Thoma-n
B. Folder, an Atlanta attorney who at
tained wide prominence during tho
South Carolina dispensary cases, was
: seriously stabbed here to-day. and G.
K. Vesson. of Kast Point. Ga., door
keeper of the lower house of the State
Assembly, has been arrested, charged
with the assault. The affray occurred
in the lobby of the Kimball House in
! the presence of many assemblymen, and
1 Is believed to have followed a dis
lipr^om^nt over a bill to amend the
I charter of the city of Savannah. Felder
? is at a local hospital and Is expected
j to recover.
JOSEPH T. ELLIOTT DEAD
? Wan One of Pew to Kscnp* Denth In
.Steamboat Sultnnn Fire During
Civil War.
INDIANAPOLIS, IND.. August 3.?
Joseph Taylor Elliott, seventy-one,
vice-president of a large bond broker
ago firm here, is dead at his home, after
an Illness of two months of diabetes.
He was a veteran of the Civil War. and
I was one of the few to escape death on
i the steamship Sultana, which burned
to the water's edge, following an ex
! plosion of a boiler, in the Mississippi
: River near Memphis, while carrying
! about 1.900 paroled prisoners to the
; North in 1805. Fully 1,600 lives were
; lOSt.
MRS. CHAMBERLAIN WEDS
Widow of I.nte llrltfnli Stnteftman Be
come* Ilrlde of Cnnon of
Westminster.
j LONDON. August 3.?Mrs. Joseph
I Chamberlain, widow of the British
statesman, and Rev. William Hartley
Carnegie, rector of St. Margaret's, and
canon of Westminster, were married
at Westminster Abbey at S o'clock this
i morning. The ceremony was very
j simple and quiet.
j Mrs. Chamberlain before her first
marriage was Miss Mary Kndicott, of
; Massachusetts, daughter of the late
William C. Kndicott, Secretary of War
| in President Cleveland's Cabinet.
; GIFT TO1 NATION'S CAPITAL
Southern .Met hodl.it n Clone Contract for
Erection of 9-ft>,000 Church
Edifice.
WASHINGTON, August 3.?Bishop W.
A. Candler, chairman of the general
conference committee of the Methodist
Episcopal Church, South, and Dr.
George S. Sexton, seorotary, to-day
closed the contract here for the erec
tion of a beautiful church, designed to
he the gift of Southern Methodists to
the nation's capital. It will be con
structed of Georgia marble on a site
at Massachusetts Avenue and K Street,
facing Mount Vernon Place Sqtmre.
j Construction is to begin immediately.
' The church will cost $250,000.
Watching War Vessels Appar
ently Are Unaware of
Her Departure.
PASSES CLOSE TO U. S. SHIP
Captain Hinsch, of the Neckar,
Tells Incidents of Sub
marine's Dash.
N^ltl'OLK, VA? August 3.?So far
; as Ja known here to-night, the Deutsch
land Is safely at sea or, ,|Cr wav (o
Bremen. after successfully running
through the patrol of allied cruisers
Off the Virginia rapes. The war vm
fels still were in sight of observers on
shore to-day, apparently unaware of
the departure of the r.eutsehland.
It is not believe,) Mu. ,,r?tS(.h.
?..d exporie,;,.-., lightest difliculty
hi evading tin- |.s<.,.v.
:sv;t,-!^n..lni,S,'h- ?f ",0 liner
* ("'r' " u>'"?'ssed the departure
of the submarine. !;(j? that fhc ,M?,Pr_
water freighter passed unobserved
within 100 yards of a ,;nit<?d .Statos ?c_
Mroyer on neutrality f|?ty. ahout a
hi lie off the rapes.
in ^UT "i ' amo 11 "tor, at a point
,1"! ,a-v 1 not disclose, be. ause
we probably shall have to use, tho plaee
a train. said Captain Hinseh. "'The
Pilot aboard the submarine was taken '
off to the Thomas l\ Timmins. our tup '
'I was then about 5 o'clock in the I
morning. The submarine was sub
merged. so that her machinery and '
pumps could be tested and the cargo
? ? ? ?iiw me rarjro
be trlmtned. should that be
nOdessarv ?
She we,,, down in a deep hole ,h0 j
J, ,0,a ffct. remaining
there for some time :
i:vi:itVTiiiAf; ov sirii?
WOllliivr; PKItl-'KfTr.v
"When She came to the surface again '
aptain Koenig came up throOgh the
-nnlng tower and said that everything
was working perfectly That pleased
ml'irhtCnh W? had we
hincs V? ? rearra"^ some
I i! ? i il was seen how the
Deutschland worked In salt water The
osts In the dock at Baltimore Je
,?,?d? i,te,? ?? vo? hlm(v
I he trial completed, we started orr
fn Si ', Wrl a"" WH*" "? 'ram, was
n sight the Deutschland took another
dive while running. She went down
s ho we'd" n h?"r ,n<Lh?S ?f periscope
snow ed above ,he water. Then I
dropped behind to see at what distant
j t he wako of the Deutschland. .or. Lhe
! seen! Cr?Ht ot thc Periscope could be
'',0 tests having proved that th*
we" wenta,hltWa"S ,>0rfoct condition.
While We a p 'c to hido for a
bile. We were well hidden, too
! in finding I," ha" KrCal Acuity
eape" 'S,ar,<?" ^ the
part" of' f>! ! how thc better
of th0 trip was made. The de
stroyer was passed in the dark As
'he" m?r U'e bri,,*?
watched S ?i U,e Tim?nlns they
I v atchert us closely and looked all
?wound for the submarine, which passed
them at a distance of only 100 yards.
the t,me the submarine was sub
merged until her docks were awash,
i VKS.NKI.S IIAII \o CIIANCK
OK KIXDI.VG DKl TStHUM)
I-ater, when i reported to the de
stroyer that the Deutschland had
cleared the capes and was on her way
to sea. the officers aboard seemed most
surprised. They had not observed her
at all. The British and French cruisers
off shore hadn't the slightest clianco
of finding the Deutschland."
The submarine increased her speed,
and the men aboard the Timmins!
which had stopped, watched her as she
sped for the open sea. A mile away
all her lights suddenly disappeared.
Captain Hinsch said he knew thc vessel
submerged at that time, when a mile
inside the three-mile limit.
He added it would be unwise for him
to disclose whether the vessel went up
j or down the coast before striking out
to sea or whether site steered an east
| erly course straight out.
j Captain Hinsch returned to naltimore
i to-night, leaving the Timmins in Nor
folk with instructions to pick up a tow
for Baltimore if one could be secured
within a day or so. If no tow is avail
able. the tug. he said, will go back to
Baltimore, anyhow.
In response to questions regarding
the prospects of the Bremen, sister ship
to the Deutschland, arriving in Ameri
can waters, Captain Hinsch said:
"You can depend upon it that if the
Bremen were coming in the near future,
I would not be returning to Baltimore,
land neither would the Timmins."
| He declined to say when the Bremen
was expected, l>ut Indicated that no
I knew.
Just before leaving to-night for Bal
timore on a Bay Lino boat Captain
Hinsch expressed appreciation to the
United States Navy for the strict neu
trality patrol maintained off the capos.
He declared that In part this fact aided
the Deutschland materially in getting
to sea, explaining that had tho allien
cruisers not been watched they would
have ignored the three-mile limit.
JIK\ OK IXTKHMOI) ( It IJISIOItS
HON Oil CAPTAIN HINSCH
NORFOLK. VA,, August 3.?Thc oftl
cers and crews of tho Gorman cruisers
I'rlnz Kit el Krledrich and Kronprlna
Wllhelni. interned at the local navy
yard, this afternoon royally celebrated
tho clean get-away of the undersea
merchantman, Deutschland.
Captain Hans Hinsch, of lhe German
ship Neckar, interned at Baltimore,
who directed the sailing of the Deutsch
land, was the guest of honor and made
the principal address. Captain Koenig
and crow wore toasted and cheered.
Tho colcbration was held on the I'rlnz
Ml el.
^ ?T,MK ,,)E'VI' WEKK-KN1) Tltir
To BAltlinorn by now YORK rtlVKJt MNE
steamer*, (4 round trip. Mad. 272.?-Adv.
Carranza Selects Men to Repre
sent Mexico in Negotiations
With United States.
WILL MEET IN THIS COUNTRY
1
American Suggestions for Broad
ening Scope of Discussions
Relieved to Be Acceptable.
WASHINGTON. August :>?The final
word from General Carranza upcpsrj\;v
to initiate ;i joint rominission is ex-'
peeled to reach Washington in a day
or two, and officials believe the
commission's deliberations may begin
within a week of ten days.
<?/1iolal announcement in Mexico City
to-day that Mex. an commissioners
already had been selected was taken
to indicate that the American sue
gestion for broadening the scope of
subjects to be considered at the con
ferences had been accepted. Neither
the Mexican embassy nor the State
Department, however, ha?l been of
ficially advised to-nluht regarding se-i
lection of the commissioners or Gen
eral Carranza's decision as to the mat
ters they will discuss.
While no formal comment was made
at the department in advance of of
ficial notification, there was nothing to'
indicate that the three commissioners
named would not lie entirely accepta
ble. President Wilson has a score of
men under consideration for appoint
ment as American commissioners, but,
It is understood he has not attempted !
so far to make a choice. There are i
many indications that a high army
oflicer will be one of those selected !
because of the military nature of the !
problems to be considered. Major- '
General Goethals has been mentioned, j
The other men under consideration in- I
elude members of the Supreme Court;
and men in close touch with commer-I
cial and financial conditions.
The commission's power will be only]
that of recommendation. Whatever
plan it may propose, either for settling
the border situation, for withdrawal
of American troops from Mexico or for
any other purpose, must be ratified be
fore it is any way binding upon either
government.
VaVious places have been suggested
as to the meeting place of the coir.tnis
| sion, but no place has been definitely
selected. Hot Springs, Va., it was said
to-day, is receiving serious considera
tion. but Atlantic seaside resorts and
?Niagara Falls also are being considered.
SBI.KCTKI) TO ItKPHKSKXT
1)10 FAl'TO (JOVIJIIXMUXT
MKXICO CITY, August :1.? It was
| ofllclall.v announced at the Mexican
Foreign Oflice to-day that Luis Cabrera, j
Vgnaeio Bonillas and Alberto Pani have j
been selected as the commissioners to j
negotiate with the United States com-j
1 missioners regarding the questions at
issue between Mexico ami the United
States. The commission will be headed
by Senor Cabrera, and Juan B. llogo
will act as secretary.
Although the names of the Mexican
commission were announced, the text
of General Carranza's acceptance of the
conference has not been made public j
here. It is understood that the Mex
ican ambassador at Washington will j
complete the arrangements with ref
erence to time and place, and it is said;
that any place satisfactory to the j
' United States will be satisfactory to
} Mexico.
Senor Bonillas already is en route to
New York, and the departure of Senora
j Cabrera and Pani will not be delayed
after the announcement that arrange
ments have been completed. Both of
them to-day declined to discuss the
probable procedure of the conference.
No indication is given by the Foreign
Office or the first chief as to the reply
to the suggestion of the United State*
on other questions than the withdrawal
of the troops and a protocol covering
the border, but the general impression
among persons in close touch with gov
ernmental affairs here is that Mexico !
will insist that thtsc questions be j
settled before other issues are dis- j
cussed.
COMMISSION It I'd.\ ltr>KI>
AS KXCUKDI.MiLV A I!I,TO
The commission named to-day is re- j
garded as exceedingly able. Cabrera is
Minister of Finance. Ife Is a lawyer
and the originator of the present finan
cial system of the country. He has
had wide experience in foreign coun- '
tries.
Ygnaclo Bonillas is eminent as a!
mining and civil engineer. lie Is a1
graduate of the Massachusetts lnstl-i
tute of Technology, Itoston, and lived (
for many years iu the United States, i
lie is regarded as a strong and oner- !
getic man.
Albert I'ani also is an engineer, and j
is head of the National Hallways of
Mexico. %
Juan B. Uogo, secretary of the com-j
mission, is a young lawyer who. has!
been attached to the Korelgn Oflice.
TO AID TEUTONIC ALLIES
Bed Cross Olliehils Announce Stepn
looking to Shipment of Hos
pital .Supplies.
WASHINGTON, August i>.?Bed Cross
officials announced to-night they had
| taken steps looking to t he shipment of
I hospital supplies to Germany and her j
allies by re-establishment of Bed Cross
units in those countries, the only:
method by which Great Britain will
permit passage of ' such shipments
through her blockade. The Bed
Cross has asked flerniHtiy and Austria,
through the State Department, for per
mission to send one or two hospital
units of six doctors and cinht nurses
Into each of the central empires This!
permission, Bed Cross ofliclals believe,!
will be granted readily, and then funds
would bo solicited to finance tho new
units.
Interested Agencies of Federal
Government Hope to Pre
vent Final Break.
WILSON MAY MAKE APPEAL
Senate Committee to Decide To
Day Whether Hearings
Will Be Held.
WASHINGTON, August :t.?\yhile the
strike vote of loo.rtoo railroad cm
plnypcs was brine counted in New York
every aRoncy of Hie Fcdf.ral govern
ment affected by the situation was lire
paring to-day to do all possible to
avert a final break between the rail
roads and the workmen.
William I.. Chambers, commissioner
of the board of mediation and concilia
tion, was in communication with Presi
dent Wilson "inline the day. though
board otllclaIs pointed out that nothing
of a formal character could be done
until tlie railroad managers and repre
sentatives of the employees resumed
negotiations next week.
A call was Issued for a meeting to
morrow morning of the Senate Com
merce Committee t ?> decide whether
hearings will be held on Chairman
Newlands's resolution proposing un in
vestigation by tlie Interstate Commerce
Commission of hours of labor on. rail
roads, and urging the employers and
employees to postpone a settlement of
their difficulties until a report can be
made.
Hours of labor constitute one of the
chief causes of threatened stride.
TO I >11*11 ISMS ON rONfillKSS
XKC1SSSIT Y OF STF.I'S
The Chamber of Commerce of the
United States, which yesterday ap
pealed to President Wilson for Federal
I intervention to prevent a strike, is
considering calling a conference of
representatives of commercial organi
zations to impress on Congress the
| necessity of taking some immediate
j step.
The President late to-day designated
I (J. W. W. Manger, assistant commis
sioner of the board of mediation and
conciliation, as a member of the board.
| The law stipulates that there shall be
| three members, but Judge Martin A.
Knapp, chairman, and William L..
| Chambers, commissioner, have served
I alone since the board was formed.
Judge Knapp and Mr. Chambers
asked the President to increase the
I membership, because the work of the
| board already has become groat, and
! the threatened railroad strike has
! added to the necessity of having an
I other member.
Administration officials said every
1 thing possible would be done to avert
a strike. If all other steps fail, it is
probable President Wilson will make
[ a personal appeal to the railroad man
j agers and the employees, urging theni
to effect a settlement in the Interest
'of the public. The question may l>e
' discussed at to-morrow's Cabinet
meeting.
| Wll.li CAIHSFI'1,1, V ?;?> OVF.H
WIIOLK SITUATION TO-DAY
President Wilson asked Commis
sioner Chambers to come to the White
House to-night and talk over pros
pects for a settlement of tho differ
ences between the railroads and their
employees, but because the commis
sioner had another engagement the
conference was postponed until to
morrow. It Is understood they will
go over the whole situation carefully
then.
SWITCHMEN'S UNION
A I.SO .MA IvKS DISMAVD
NEW YORK, August 3.?Demands of
approximately 30,000 members of the
I Switchmen's Union ??f America for in
I creased wages and shorter hours, made
j in Chicago In March, are being dis
cussed in this city by representatives
of the union and the railroads affected,
it was learned to-night. The confer
ence, which has been in progress more
than a week, is private.
Nineteen railroads arc represented at
the conference, including the New York
Central, tho Baltimore and Ohio and tho j
Rock Island.
VOTIS OVISIt\VIIIS1,>1 1 N<?
IN FA VOIt OF S I It IKK ;
NBW YORK. August 3.?Seventy- j
five per cent of the ballots cast by more j
than 400,000 railroad employees of the
United States in the vote on the gen- j
eral strike had been counted by the
special board of tellers in this city]
this afternoon. Timothy Shea, assist
ant president of tho Brotherhood of
Locomotive Firemen and ISnglnemcn.
in charge of tlie work, declared that!
of these 300,000, almost all favored a ,
strike.
The count probably will not l>e com- j
pleted until next Monday.
A. B. Garretson, president of tli*!
Order of Railway Conductors, and W. j
H. Lee, of the trainmen's organization, j
arrived here to-day, and it is expected]
that conferences similar to those of
the National Railway Committee will
be hehl to determine a course of action
for the joint meeting Tuesdaj.
TO OHTAIN IjF<? ISI.ATI ON
FllO>! I . S. ION<;itlSSS
CHICAGO, August 3.?A national
campaign among all railroad em
ployees not comprised in the four
brotherhoods who are voting on a
strike was started to-day, to obtain
legislation by Congress to empower
somebody to settle all disputes as to
wages between railroads and their em
ployees. whether organized or unor
ganized.
R. T. Fra/.ler, of Nashville, chairman
of a railroad organization outside of
the brotherhoods, said petition for such
legislation had been signed by a ma
jority of men In bis organization.
The committee contends that Sn per
cent of railroad employees .ire not In
cluded among the trainmen. These
men Include construct Ion, repair, shop,
officers and operating department oni
1 ploytes.
Progressives Plan
to Keep Party Alive
//ope to Hold Balancc oj Pow
er in Eccnl of Close bight
Between Old Parlies.
INDIANAPOLIS, IND., August 3.? ;
Plans f<>r the reorganization ami per- |
pot nation of the Progressive party as
a national political organization wore
adopted here to-night at a conference
of Hull Mooso representatives. Tiio |
conference, after a heated discussion,
decided it would l>e impracticable to
reiisscmble the Progressive National
("<>nvolition and till tlie vacancy on tin?
national ticket caused by Theodore
Roosevelt's declination of the noinitia-j
lion for President. Instead, the organ-|
ligation will put up an electoral ticket I
in every State where there is the
nucleus of an organization left, bearing ;
the name of John M. Parker, of Louis
iana, nominee for Vice-President, in (
i the hope perhaps <{f electing enough
'presidential electors which might prove
the balance of power in the event of a I
close contest between the two old
parties.
Among the States in which this plan
will be carried out ate: Ijouisiatia,
i Maryland. Indiana, Missouri. Wisconsin,
Michigan, Utah, North Dakota and
Minnesota.
.1. A. 11. llopkins, of New Jersey, was
chosen treasurer of the rehabilitated
Hull Moose party, and Matthew llale.
of Massachusetts, vice-chairman, will
i be in active charge.
j An executive committee of fifteen
i members will be natnt-d by Vice-Chair
man Hale to co-operate with the fifteen
members of the national committee
who refused to vote for the indorse
ment of Charles K. Hughes at Chicago
In rehabilitating the party.
'This plan may include some kind of
an amalgamation with the Prohibition,
Socialist and Woman's parties.
John M. Parker to-night sent a tele
gram to Oscar S. Straus, of New York,
protesting against a letter sent out on
stationery bearing Parker's name,
which it Is alleged had been sent to
Progressives throughout the country i
asking contributions for Hughes's j
campaign fund. A plan was discussed
to read out of the party all national !
committeemen now supporting Hughes,
but finally the idea was abandoned.
TRIAL OF NICHOLAS ENDS
KIiiiIIiiK" in fimr of l.leuteniint In
t'liiirgr of Sunken Destroyer Will
lie Sent to Washington.
CHARLESTON. S. C., August 3.?
Court-martial proceedings against Lieu
tenant W. C. Nicholas, commander of
the torpedo-boat destroyer Terry, which
struck a submerged object and sank on
Juno lt> last in San Domingo waters,
i closed to-day. The court's findings,
| when completed, will be forwarded to
I the Navy Department at Washington.
! Commander Laning, commanding the j
j reserve torpedo Hot ilia- of the Atlanth
Fleet. testified that the mooring buoy
, near the point where tlic Terry sttuck
was "misleading by about 1.10 feet."
and In the course of his statement he
1 paid tribute to Lieutenant Nicholas as
an officer and an "admirable navigator."
The Terry, after being raised, was
towed here, and is being repaired.
25 DEAD IN CLOUDBURST
Apparently Kvrrv Home Along lllalr'*
Creek. Tenn.. I* Washed
Away.
MIDDLESBORO. KY? August 3.?
Twenty-five persons arc known to have
lost their lives as a result of a cloud
burst which caused Blair's Creek to
overrun its banks near Tazewell, Tenn.,
late last night. Three men. four
women and eighteen children are In
cluded in the revised list of dead.
Rescue parties returning from the
stricken district late to-day said the
little valley of Blair's Creek Is still
flooded, and that apparently every
home along the creek for a distance of
six miles has ' been washed away.
Some estimate that the complete death
list will total fifty.
NEGRO BISHOP DEAD
llev. S. 1?. Ferguson, of Episcopal
Church. K*|ilrr? at Home
In i.iberiii.
NEW YORK. August 3.?The death
I of Rev. S. D. Ferguson, bishop of the
! Episcopal Church in Liberia, was an
1 nounced to-day In cable dispatches re
| ceivod by the Domestic and Foreign
i Missions Society. The negro clergy
man was born in Charleston, S. C. in
1S42, and with his family emigrated at
j the age of six to Liberia, where he
j was ordained a priest In IStiS, and
elected bishop of the District of Capo
; Palinas, now the District of Liberia,
in 1SS4.
LAMM AHEAD OF SWANGER
I Apparently Nominated for tJo\ernor of
! Missouri Ht ItppuIllicitii Primary ;
by Large Plurality.
ST. LOUIS, August 3. ?Henry Lamm,!
of Sedalia, apparently was nominated j
for Coventor of Missouri at the Repub-j
lican primary on Tuesday by a large i
I plurality. Out of 141,000 Republican
ballots be has a plurality of 22.000 over]
John E. Swanger.
I in a tabulation of 180.000 Democratic I
ballots, Frederick 1?. Cardncr, of St.
Louis, has a le.nl of 3M0J for the
Hemocratic nomination for Coventor.
Practically the entire vote bus been
recorded.
HIGH PRICE FOR COTTON
Sale of It.UDIl Hiiles I* Made nt Mont
gomery for i:t 1-4 Cent*
a Pound.
Mi i.NTiii iMEKY. ALA , August 3.?
'I'll'' highest price for cotton here since
the outbreak of the European war
i was reached to-day, when 3.-06 bales .
I were sold for 13 1-4 cents per pound,
'the transaction involving over $200,000. |
NO NOTABLE GAINS
ON ANY OF FRONTS
FOR BELLIGERENTS
Violent Fighting Continues
Between Russians and
Teutons.
BATTLES TAKE PLACE
IN STOKHOD REGION
Bayonet Attack Against Turks
Results in Capture of Pris
oners and Guns.
(;i:it.M.\NS ItKI'lliSKI) IX WEST
Counterattacks in Dclvillc Wood Sec
tor and Bombardments Char
acterize Operations.
Thursday passed in all the war thea
ters without notable gains for any of
the belligerents. In the Stokhod region
of Russia, violent lighting continued
between the Russians and the Austro
German forces, while German counter
attacks against the British in the Del
ville wood sector in K ranee, all of
which were repulsed, and bombard
ments, characterized the operations in
Fra nee.
Rattles also took place along the
Bereth and Dniester Rivers in Gulieiu
between the Russians and the Teutons,
while in the Caucasus region the Rus
sians near Diarbekr carried otif. a bayo
net attack against tho Turks, which
resulted in the capture of a Turkish
work and some 300 prisoners and guns.
In the Travananzes Valley of the
Aust ro-I talian theater, the Italians
have made fresh progress against tho
Austro-11nngarians. In the Adigo Val
ley, in the. upper I'osiiia region, and
in the district of Cortina d'Ampezzo,
the Austrians are bombarding Italian
positions.
SKVI'MtAI. til-:it)IA.\ ATTKMI'TS
KIOIMLSIU) 1?V FltEXCn
PARIS, August a.?North of the River
Somme several German attempts last
night against the French position on
Monacu Farm were repulsed, it was
officially announced by the French War
Department this afternoon. The French
[ troops organized their new positions
; between Monacu Farm and Ham wood.
South of the Somtne a German coun
terattack south of Kstrees failed.
Several violent German counterat
tacks on the trenches taken by tho
French yesterday on the rijrht bank
of the Mouse, the statement adds, were
everywhere stopped by the screen of
infantry tire.
In this region, which is north of tho
fortress of Verdun, the French made
progress to the south of Flenry. Since
tIte tirst of August the French have
capture)! 1,100 Germans on this bank.
On the left bank of the Mouse an
intense artillery duel continues, but
there has been no infantry action.
In tho Somme sector Sergeant Chair
nat, of the French aviation corps,
brought down two German machines,
which makes a total of eight brought
down by this aviator.
Tho statement follows:
"North of the River Somme we re
pulsed last night several German as
saults upon the Monacu Farm, and we
organized our new positions between
this farm and the Ham wood.
"It has been confirmed that the Ger
man units engaged in the region of tho
Monncu Farm had to be relieved as a
result of the heavy losses they havo
sustained since July uO.
"South of the River Somme a coun
terattack upon our positions located
south of Estrees failed under our
fire.
"On the right bank of the River
Mettse the Germans delivered several
violent counterattacks upon the
trenches which wo captured yesterday.
Everywhere our curtains of Are and
the tiro of our infantry checked tho
efforts of our adversary, who suffered
heavy losses. As for our troops fol
lowing up their advantages, they havo
made notable progress to the south of
Flenry. They have reached the Imme
diate surroundings of this village and
have even gone beyond the railroad
station. Tiie number of prisoners made
by us yesterday in the region of Flenry
alone is in excess of 700. This raises
to 1,100 the total number of able-bodied
prisoners who have fallen into our
hands since the tirst of August on the
right bank of the Mouse.
"In the region of Vaux-le-ChapItro
and Chenols there has been continued
intense artillery lighting, but without
infantry participation. The night
passed quietly on the remainder of tho
front, except in the forest of Apremont,
where we dispersed with ritle tiro cer
tain German patrols. ,
"On the front along the Somme. Ser
geant Chainat yesterday had two aerial
encounters with German machines, and
in each case vanquished, his adversary.
These two new victories make a total
of eiRht German machines which have
been brought down by this aviator.
Another German aeroplane, attacked
at close quarters by one of our ma
chines, fell to the ground and was
wrecked near Chatiny."
Gioimws i.auncii gas attacks
IN It KG ION OK MMOHGO.V
I'BTItOGHA t>, August 3 tvia Lon
don).?"On the night of August 2, in
the region of Sinorgon." says the of
ficial Itussiun statement issued to-day,
";be onomv 1-unn-hod ?as attacks on
(???th sides of the railway. Tho attack
opened t I o'clock in the morning, and
? he gas was released six times, with
intervals between the waves. Tho gas
attacks finished at 6 o'clock In tho
morning.
"The use of pas was discovered In
tfood time, with the result that tho Ger
mans who were following the gas at
tacks, on attempting to advance, met
with rtlle and mat-hlne-guu tire, and
suffered sovero losses.
"Tho enemy did not oven succeed In
getting outside of his own wire en
