r-fr--.
FINANCIAL EDITION
Ctmtmg
NIGHT
EXTRA
NIGHT
EXTRA
VOL. H.-NO. 278
PHILADELPHIA, PHIDAY, AUGfeTJST 4, 10 1G.
COCTXiaitt, 1910, BT THE roBUO LXDO COUfiMI,
PRICE ONE CENT
Vjht 7iaL"L i 9a
GERMANS WIN
GROUND IN NEW
VERDUN DRIVE
I Teutons Take Southern Part
of Fleury in New
Attack
TERRIFIC GUN DUEL
Other Attack Repulsed
French in All-Night
Fighting
by
PAIUS, Aug. 4.
The buttle of Verdun Is again raging
l with nil the fury that characterized Its In
ception lato In February.
The fighting Is especially violent cast of
the Mouso, whero tho Germans havo suc
ceeded In occupying tho southom part of
tho village of Fleury.
Tho French War Ofllce, In Its com
munique today, stated that German at
tacks wero mado alt night long against the
French positions on tho Floury-Thlau-mont
lines, but that all wero repulsed.
Dawn found the Crown Prince still hurl
In? his Gorman legions ngatnst tho French
positions, but tho 'assault broke to pieces
before tho Iron defense of tho French sol
diers. After occupying tho southern part of
Fleury. the Germans tried to Bweep Into
the northern end of the village but were
driven back by tho machine gun and rlflo
fire from tho battered houses, where tho
French had taken rcfugo and transformed
them Into fortresses.
Infantry ranks were surging forward
back and forth around Floury nnd a great
duel was In progress on tho lino of Cha
pltre and Chenols woods. Tho War Ofllco
characterized this duel with big guns as
being particularly severe.
The text of tho official communlquo fol
lows: On tho right of tho bank Mouso thero
wero battles on tho Thlaumont-FIoury '
front, which tho Germans attacked all
night with extreme violence. Nu
merous counter-attacks with great
forces against our positions on tho
edge of the Thlaumont work wero re
pulsed with serious losses for the en
emy. Our troops in tho courso of tho
battle succeeded in capturing a work
which was evacuated under a. powerful
bombardment, bringing back 80 pris
oners takcp by us In that action.
In the region of Fleury the combats
have been no less violent. The Ger
mans have multiplied tholr counter
attacks against tho village, each pro-
ceded by an intenso artillery prepara
tion. After many unsuccessful at
tacks, tho Germans gained a foothold
in the southern section of Fleury,
where tho combat continues very vio
lent. All efforts Wo dislodge us from
the station situated east on the village
were shattered by tho resistance of our
troops.
Tho oncmy llkowlao attacked during
tho night our new' positions, east of
Vacherauvllle. Ho succeeded only In
suffering heavy losses. In the region
of Vaux-Chapltrc and Le Chenols there
was a very sharp artillery duel.
In the Vosges at 10 p, m. yesterday
the enemy launched on the Chapelotte
salient an attack which was shattered
before it was ablo to reach our lines.
Tho night was comparatively calm on
the rest of the front.
On the night of August 3 one of our
air squadrons dropped 80 shells of large
calibre on the railway Btatlon nt Noyon
and on a munition factory. Fifty shells
were thrown by another squadron on
railway stations and camps of the en
emy In the Sommo region.
BRITISH TROOPS WIN NEW
GROUND NEAR P0ZIERES;
GUNS BUSY ON S0M3IE
LONDON, Aug. 4.
A gain for the British west of rozteres
on the front between the Ancre and Somme
IUvers is recorded In the official statement
Issued by the War Olilce this afternoon.
North of Banzentin-leipetlt and northwest
of DelvlUe Wood some Oerman prisoners
were captured In minor operations.
Near the Yprea-Comlnea road the Brit
ish exploded a small mine In the German
lines and occupied the crater.
There were artillery duels of varying
Intensity at a number of points.
The War Office report follows:
During last night, as a result of
minor preparations west of Pozleres,
w gained ground! There was local
fighting north of Bazentln-le-Petlt and
northwest of DelvlUe Wood in which we
captured a few prisoners.
Thero was considerable artillery duel
ing on various portions of the. British
front
A raiding party destroyed a mine
shaft of the enemy east of Loos.
Near the Ypres-Comlnes road we
exploded a small mine In the enemy's
lines, occupying the crater.
Seriously Wounded by Ilia Own Pistol
Allien is. Hlcharduon, trapshootlng cham
pion of Delaware, Is In a critical condition
today in the Delaware Hospital, Wilming
ton, suffering from a bullet wound In his
abdomen. An automatlo pistol dropped by
Richardson as he was alighting from a
: tootprcar on Sunday, at Dover, was acci
dentally discharged, one of the bullets en-
""S ma stomach.
THE WEATHER
I FORECAST
? For Philadelphia and vicinity Gen
ttralty cloudy tonight and Satyrday;
f continued moderately warm and humid
l9ntU winds, mostly southwest.
iENOTn or day.
faa rites..., 6:01 a m. Mood rises . 0 JO p.m.
Via hu . 7 11 p m, I Moon south. -I .Oil p.m.
tt&aWARE R1VKB TWK CHANGES.
CHESTN'tlT STREET.
Pllrt -water Kli.m I HUh water.. B20 p.m.
w water tomorrow) Low waur, 12:15p.m.
TEMPERATURE T EACH HOUR.
JO lBTuTTisT
TTTITir
OI83I I
75T rer 8f F83
"The Private War," a Thrilling Romance of Intrigue by Louis Joseph Valice, Begins
CHILDREN IN PLAYGROUNDS EXAMINED
TsaaV i&r 'aassK Eiam -e&sflpjaassssssssi H SHJiiiilBHKtifiHiiKv&eitsf 'V'
City officials, in an effort to master tho spread of the infantile paralysis epidemic before it reaches tho dis
astrous proportions of the plague in Now York, are concentrating their chief efforts .upon the playgrounds.
Tho photograph "shows somo of tho city nurses examining children in tho Starr Garden Playgrounds. From
left to right arc Miss S. Kiefer, a nurse j Executive Secretary Champlin, of the Board of Recreation; Coun
cilman Robert Smith, Miss Alberta Austis, a nurse; Superintendent lall, of tho playground, and Senator
Ernest L. Tustin.
TWO FIRMS TO REFUND
TAX ON COAL; OTHERS
WON'T DISCUSS RETURN
Questions as to What Most
Dealers Will Do Met
by Refusal to
Reply
2io TO 10 CENTS BACK A TON
J, W. Mason, president of the Mason
Scholes Cola Company, nnd also of tho
Mason-Heflln Coal Company, both In Ken
sington, nnnounced today that his company
would pay back to customers tho State coal
tax, which was declared an unconstitutional
levy some months ngo. The company Is tho
first in Philadelphia to make the refund.
' Asked today If he was to be tho exception
or the rule among coal dealers In refunding
the tax, Mr. Mason said:
"Mason has been damned by every big
coal dealer In Philadelphia, but I'm In the
habit of doing what I think Is rlsht."
Some of the biggest coal dealers In the
city wero queried today about what action
they would take In regard to the repayment
to their customers. Georgo B. Newton &
Co., at 1427 Chestnut street, which building
also houses some of the biggest dealers In
the city, such men as George W. Edmonds,
Samuel B. Crowell and other such big coal
merchants, would give no Information when
the EvE.vwa Ledokh asked.
The Bell Coal Company Insisted It had
never charged the tax. The John A. Gerety
Coal Company in West Philadelphia insisted
It had never charged the tax.
It will be remembered that the price of
coal went up uniformly when the tax law
was paused.
Mr. Mason said he understood all the
wholesalers were returning the tax to the
retailers, and it was up to the retailers
to play fair with their customers. He
said he expected to make a refund In about
3000 or 4000 individual cases, but couldn't
approximate how much money that would
be. The reason for the delay, he said, had
been because he had to wait until the
money came back from the wholesaler.
He has just received a check from the
Lehigh Coal and Navigation Company, and
Is now preparing to distribute it to his
customers. The money he got some time
ago from the Beading Coal nnd Iron Com
pany will go out at the same time.
So far he is the only Phlladelphlan known
to make his refund. In Glenslde Frank G.
Justice announced the other day he was
making a return to his customers, and A. It
Nicholson in Wyncote is preparing to do
It today. He Just got his check from the
Lehigh Company last night.
Mr. Nicholson said he thought every
hdusehplder could compel the big retail com
panies to return the tax charge if they
cared to fight for It. He pointed out that
maybe the coal companies didn't charge
for tHe tax specifically, but that when the
price of coal went up that was figured In,
and in the end the consumer paia me tax.
not the retailer. That Is why he thinks
the "consumer should get It back. Otherwise
It means an unfair profit to the retailer, he
said.
The return to the consumer will vary
from two and one half to ten cents per
ton. The tax was SH per cent of the cost
of the coal at the mine.
Villa Leaders In Custody
CHIHVAHUA, Mexico, Aug. A num
ber of prominent Villa leaders have been
captured or have' surrendered to Govern
ment troops within the last few days. Gen
eral Jacinto Trevino announced today.
c.mnl.u DUtsencer service resumed
via
a.nth.rn Railway to Atlanta,
Birmingham.
Mamphls.
by direct routea.
Six llmlttd Tm1 trln dally-
OCllc 838 Cneat-
nut street.-
-4dv-
NEW YORK FACING
CAR STRIKE TONIGHT;
BOTH SIDES DEFIANT
Union Leaders Deliver Ulti
matum, to Which Companies
Reply by Asking Police
Protection
GOMPERS TAKES A HAND
NEW YOmc. Aug. 4. "A strike will be
ordered by 9:30 tonight unless the street
railway companies yield to our demand."
"Tho street railway companies will not
recognize tho union. They will maintain
service in New York city."
With tho street car union nnd street car
magnates defying each other In the manner
shown In the foregoing statements, tho city
officials grimly kept nt their task of pre
serving peace today. Onco more It Is ad
mitted that the situation looked hopeless,
but the authorities abandoned none 'of their
efforts.
Tho time limit fixed by the labor or
ganizers for recognition of the union was
set to expire at 3 o'clock this afternoon,
but leports reached the corporation heads
that a strike would be railed before that
time. As a result they telephoned to police
headquarters and asked for protection of
their property.
Reserves were ordered held In readiness
at nil but one of the city stations. Com
munication with the union leaders, however,
brought forth a statement that the union
had no Intention of violating the pledge
It had given, that events would be allowed
to take their course, but that unless the
union was recognized within the time set
its members would meet as scheduled and
declare for a strike.
Reports that the threatened strike of the
transit employes In New York city may
spread to include workers in other lines,
and that the American Federation of Labor
Is contemplating making the fight of the
street carmen Its own were current today,
following a conference between American
Federation of Labor leaders and President
Mahon nnd Organizer Fitzgerald, of the
street carmen, at a local hotel. President
Gompers, of the American Federation of
Labor, sent word today he would arrive this
afternoon and Immediately confer with the
carmen's leaders.
GERMAN FOOD SUPPLY
AMPLE, BAT0CKI SAYS
"Dictator" Asserts Empire Now
Entirely Independent of Brit
ish Blockade
By CABL "W. ACKERMAN
BERLIN, Auff. 4.
Germany enters the third year of the
war with enough food supplies to carry
her through at least two more years, de
Bplte the allied blockade, Food Dictator
Adolph von Batockl told me today.
The food crisis nas passed," said
Batockl. "The harvest is so good, equal
ing the average in peace times, and every
thing is so welt organized that we begin
the year with a surplus enabling us to
hold out for a fourth, even a fifth year,
counting on thf next crops. From the food
standpoint Germany la now independent
of the blockade.
"Despite silly rumors there is no star
vation in Germapy. There have been no
riots in which women were mowed down
with, machine-guns."
The harvests in Poland, Belgium, north
ern France and other territories occupied
by the German army will be sufficient for
the civilian populations, Batockl believes.
FOR "POLIO" GERMS
PORTER TAKES STAND
ASWITNfiSlNPROBEOF
CITY GRAFT AND VICE
Ex-Director of Public Safety
Quizzed by Grand Jury Ten
derloin Outcasts Found
in Cabarets
DETECTIVES ON TOUR
Former Director of Public Safety
George D. Porter appeared before the
Grand Jury today and told of the direc
tion of the police department under
the Blankenburg administration, nnd
declared that the protection of vice
or' gambling was not countenanced dur
ing that reign. lie was on the stand
for nearly two hours and was com
pelled to meet a fusillade of questions.
He declared that the lid was on th
Tenderloin throughout the ndministra
tion of the former Mayor.
Evidence that tho Inmates of disorderly
houses which wero closed In the raid of
July 15 nre now frequenting cabarets nnd
cafes throughout tho city, with the full
knowledge of the proprietors, was pre
sented to the Grand Jury today, ns tho
result of a tour of the cafes and cabarets
made last night by two detectives, nctlng
under the orders of the Jury.
The detectives were John II. Brounley
and Thomas Sullivan, two of D. Clarence
Gibboney's chief assistants. One week
after the sensational raid detectives from
the polloe department were sent out to
make a similar Inspection of the cafes and
cabarets, but in some way It Is said, there
was a "leak" and the proprietors and man
agers were tipped ofT.
Ijast night, however, the tour was a com
plete surprise and the detective found wom
en who were the occupants of disorderly
houses now closed by the police, circulating
freely among the patrons of various places.
They found these women, many of them
even now under ball awaiting trial as a
result of the raid, playing their same- old
game, only In a slightly different way to
suit new conditions, and this time In more
public, places.
So notorious were some of the women
Continued on Fate Two, Column Two
MOTORIST KILLS WOMAN;
CAUGHT AFTER CHASE
Fails to Halt at Policeman's Pis
tol Shot Pursued in. Com
mandeered Car
An automobile, drjven by Horace Mc
Glnley, of Audubon, N. J., sped south in
Eleventh street early today and In an at
tempt to avoid s. trolley car in Market
street, whirled across the pavement and
crashed Into Mrs. Anna Moran, E0 years
old, 705 Vine street, walking on the side
walk In front of a store. Injuring her so
that she died two hours later in Jefferson
Hospital.
After striking the woman, McGInltfy re
adjusted his car, headed It east, and sped
toward Tenth street. Policeman Breedon,
of the Eleventh and Winter streets station,
was standing In the entrance of the Reading
Terminal and saw the accident When he
aw the automobilist starting away he ran
into Market street and called to him to
halt
McGlnley by that time had left Market
- -"" " -
Continued oa Paso Two. Column Six.
T
QUICK
STATE EMPLOYES, OF GUARD, LOSE JOBS
BOSTON, Aug. 4. Every Stnte employe who left his fnmlly
and his home In answer to the President's cnll to the National Guard
for service on the Hexlcan border wns automatically discharged from
his State position when he wns mustered into the Federal National
Guard. This decision wns tendeted todny by Attorney General Henry
Atwell.
SARATOGA RACING RESULTS
rilst race, soiling, 3-yeni-olds nnd up, 7 furlongs Ninety Sim
t :., lr 11 ?se, 25 to 1, 10 to 1, 5 to 1, won; Nnushon, 120, J.
McTnggait, 11 to b, 0 to 10, 2 to 5, second; Andes, 120, Schuttlnger,
15 to 1, 0 to 1, 3 to 1, third, Time, 1.27.
RAILROADS CLOSE YEAR OF GREATEST PROSPERITY
WASHINGTON, Aug. 4. The large railroads of tlio United
States havo just closed their books on the most prosperous year re
corded in their history, according to figures by the Interstate Com
merce Commission. Figures based xipon 11 months' records indicate
that the total Income of roads in the United States that havo a yearly
revenue of more than 51,000,000 will bo in excess of ?l,OO0,OO0,000.
MAIN LINE OFFICIAL DIES
Edward Burke Wilford, commissioner of Lower Morion town
ship, treasuier of the Electro-Dental Manufacturing Company, o this
city, and a prominent club member, died suddenly last night nt his
home, Highland and Melrose avenues, Morion, Pa. Mrs. Wilford,
his wife, is lying in the Women's Homeopathic Hospital in this city
following a seiious operation performed several days ago, unaware
o her husband's death. Mr. Wilford was 44 years old.
TURKISH AEROS ATTACK SHIPS IN SUEZ CANAL
LONDON, Aur-. 4. Two Turkish aeroplanes on Thursday attacked shipping -In
Lake Timsa, Egypt, nnd also tho town of l3mailla. In the Suez Canal, tho War Ofllco
announced today. The statement said that one machine was shot down In nn air
flEht Tuesday.
.TORNADO CAUSES $1,000,000 LOSS ON CANADA BORDER
ST. PAUL,, Minn., Aug. 4. Buildings wero wrecked and blown across railway
tracks and crop damage conservatively estimated nt more than $1,000,000 resulted
from a tornndo In northern Minnesota nnd southern Canada today. The district
about Crooksion, Minn., wns heaviest hit. It Is believed no lives wero lost.
KITCHENER MEMORIAL ON SECOND WAR ANNIVERSARY
LONDON, Aug. 4. The second anniversary of England's declaration of war
was observed today throughout tho Empire. At many of the meetings resolutions
wero adopted, expressing the determination of Great Britain to fight until victory is
nchloved. At a meeting in Mansion House, Lord Robert Cecil, Minister of War
Trade; Paul Palnlove, French Minister of Public Instruction and others delivered
addresses. Afterward a memorial to the lato Lord Kitchener was unveiled.
SUES ATLANTIC CITY RAILROAD FIFTH TIME
The fifth suit pertaining to a grade crossing accident at Laurel Springs, N. J
en Angu&t 21, 191G, was instituted in the Camden County Circuit Court against the
AtUirtii Cl'y Railroad today by William J. Stclbor, of Laurel Springs, N. J. Stelber
asks tor damages amounting to JI5.00O for the loss of his wlfo, Mary Stelber. who
died fnm injuries received in the accident. Mrs. Stelber and her brothenln-law,
Julius Pteber, both met their death and two other members of the family were
badlv in'U'ed when tho carriage In which they wero riding was struck by an Atlan
tic City express train.
YOUNG SWISS URGE DEMOBILIZATION
GENEVA, Aug. 4. A Zurich dispatch says that young men paraded tho streets
of that city Tuesday night bearing banners Inscribed: "We demand complete de
mobilization." The police charged the crowd with drawn swords beforo It would
disperse. Several persons were wounded.
IMPEACHMENT OF U. S. ATTORNEY MARSHALL DROPPED
WASHINGTON, Aug. 4. Decision to drop the impeuchment proceedings against
United States Distrlft Attorney Marshall, of New York, asked by Representative
Buchanan, today was reported to the House by the Judiciary Committee. This ends
the Marshall case so far as Impeachment Is concerned. Contempt charges are still
pending.
CHASE BANK, OF NEW YORK, TO CUT BIG "MELON"
NEW YORK, Aug. 4. Increase of capitalization from $5,000,000 to $10,000,000
and slicing of a large melon in dividends will be voted by directors of the Chase
National Bank on September 7, It was announced today. The Chase Bank Is the
third largest and richest banking Institution in the city. It was said In financial
circles several other banks will shortly increase their capitalization also.
FLYING YACHT CLUB FORMED; TO HAVE AIR GARAGES
TRENTON, Aug, 4. The New York Flying Yacht Club has been Incorporated
In the office of Secretary of State Thomas F. Martin. Its purposes, as set forth
In the incorporation papers, are to promote a social organization composed In
whole or in part of persons owning aeronautic inventions for personal or private
use; to advance the science of aeronautics and encourage aerial navigation and
maintain aerial garages.
DANISH WEST INDIES TREATY SIGNED
WASHINGTON, Aug. 4. Tho treaty between Denmark and the United States
for tho purchase of the Danish West Indies for $25,000,000 was signed In New York
today by Seciciary ot State lausung and Danish Minister Brun, the State Depart
ment announced today. Details will not be given out, officials here said, until
the treayt 13 formally placed before the United States Senate and the Danish Parlia
ment for ratification.
FIFTEEN HURT IN DYE EXPLOSION; ONE MAY DIE
POUGHKEEPSIE, N. Y., Aug. 4. Fifteen men were injured, one probably
fatally, by an explosion In a de vut at the plant ot the Standard Aniline Products
Company at Atepplngers Falls toOay, Windows were broken throughout the
village. The damage Is estimated at $50,000.
BASEBALL OUTFIT SHIPPED TO GUARDSMEN AT BORDER
One of the largest shipments of baseball paraphernalia ever sent out of this
city has left for El Paso. Tex., where the men of the three Philadelphia regiments
are awaiting Us arrival. The outfit Included 160 bats. 2)6 balls and 325 fielders'
gloves, of which 36 are "left-handers." The bill for the equipment amounted to
$1200. George Wentworth Carr. secretary of the Citizen Soldiers' Aid Committee,
the Rev. Thomas "W. Davis, chaplain of tho Athletics, and George Graham consti
tuted themselves, a committee to provide the equipment. A silver trophy has been
sent to General Price, which will be contested for annually by the three regimental
teams. The team which wins it three times will become its permanent owner.
NEWS
in Tomorrow's
JERSEY CHILDREN
TO BE BARRED OUT
OF PENNSYLVANIA
State Commissioner Keepi
Out Those Who Have Been
Near Paralysis Cases j
NOTIFIES AUTHORITIES
Quarantine Effective Today Bcw
tween Commonwealths Rule
Very Stringent
I
Infantile Paralusls Deaths
and Cases in Last 24 Hours
Now cases in Philadelphia.... 11
Deaths in Philadelphia 2
New cnseB in New York- 176
Deaths in Now York 40
Total cases in New York 4680
Total deaths in Now York. . . . 1025
New cases in Pennsylvania.... 3
New cases in New Jersey 42
Deaths in New Jersey .None
Total cases in New Jersey.... 798
State Commissioner of Health
Dixon, at Harrisburg, today notified
Dr. Jacob C. Price, of the New Jerscr
Department of Health, at Trenton, that
a quarantine was placed, effective to
day, on all children who have been in
contact with infantile paralysis. Doc
tor Dixon's telegram to Doctor Price?
Is as follows:
"The Commonwealth of Pennsyl
vania this day placed quarantine)
against all children under 16 years of
age coming from outside this com
monwealth who have had or hate been
in contact with infantile pnrnlysis or
who have been living in premises In.
which there is or has been a case of
infantile paralysis during the present
epidemic. Other children lesiTthan 18
years of age from any stricken dis
trict will be held under observation." .
Infantile paralysis has gained on th
health authorities In the last 24 hours.
There have been 11 new cases and 2 deaths
In Philadelphia and another case In Cam
den. So seriously do Doctor Krusen and other
city and State health officials .vlow this new
development-that "a special meetlnff" has
been called .for 3 o'clock this afternoon t
decide what further preventive measures
should bo taken.
Up to the time this sudden increase de
veloped the situation had been improving
and both Director Krusen and 'State Health
Commissioner Dixon had stated repeatedly
that there was no cause for alarm, that the
situation really was remarkably good.
They have not given up to any undue)
fear even now, but they recognize that yes
terday's developments by far the greatest
since the New York epidemic started art
too serious to Ignore.
The two who died yesterday were:
Catherine Carr, 4 years old, 1319 North.
Dover street, Twenty-ninth Ward, whose
Illness was only diagnosed a few hours
before she died.
Russel Conner, 3 years old, 713 Wlngo
hocking street, Forty-second Ward, whos
illness was found to be due to paralysis
at midnight Wednesday. '
SENT TO HOSPITAL.
Of yesterday' new cases the following
were taken to the Philadelphia Hospital
for Contagious Diseases:
Lillian Mytra. 8 yean, SOS West Venaos
atrest. Korty-tnlrd Ward.
Joseph Whltta. 8 jreara and 3 month'a, 390T
North Falrhlll atrect. Forty-third Ward.
Joaaph Uanlca. 4 Tears, S3 North Franklla
atrxt. Thirteenth Ward.
l-'rancea iukotlcy, 0 months,! 122 Carpantar
atreat. Seoond Ward.
Kdward ilaAlliter. S yeara, 6022 Qrcenwar
avenu. Fortieth Ward.
Lai lit Martin. 3 ytara and 8 months, 818
North Nawklrk. atreat. Fifteenth Ward.
Mary a Ion. 4 yaara. B02S aermantown ave
nue. Thlrty-aeventri Ward.
Timothy Uurns. 3 rears. Main and Johneoa
atrecta, Uermantuwn. Twentraeeond Ward.
These were allowed to remain at home
under quarantine:
Howard Ilutchlnaon. 10 weaka. the younseat
baby attacked by the dlaeaaa thla year. 1701
North Sixtieth street, Fortieth Ward! In critical
condition.
John Powlichlll, S years, 3813 North BUta
street, Forty-third Ward.
Charles Weaver. BH years, 3S1T North Fltta
street. Tnlrly-thlrd Ward.
Thero also were three new cases reported
from Camden as follows:
Clifford Decker, 18 months, 033 South Fourth
Joaeph Wcat, A years, 1820 South Sixth street.
Ilruno FerneUI, 23 months. 12 South Secon4
street.
The Camden case Is Charles Craado, I
months, 62 South Second street
This makes six cases In Camden, five ot
which are in South Camden, and one In
North Camden.
Because the South Camden cases all seem
In the same vicinity. Dr. J. II. Leavltt, chief
health inspector, has Issued a warning t
Camden mothers telling them to keep their
children away from tne playgrounds In the
congested districts.?
He says it is a human Impossibility ta
keep the playgrounds In "absolutely safe"
condition In this kind of weather. He also
orders all people to stop throwing debris and
waste matter of any kind into the streets,
saying that is an effective way of spreading
the epidemic
James Steelman. 1 year old, of 700 Slot
street, Camden, who has been taken to the
hospital with his mother. Is la a serious
condition. He is not, expected to recover.
There have been two deaths In Camden tv
far.
Deaths from the disease this year total
ten, nine of which have occurred sine
July 1. Similarly all but four ot the. (9
cases this year have been since July 1.
Almost 20 per cent have been, in tr
Forty-third Ward. ,
Because three-year-old Timothy Born,
Jr.. son of the caretaker of the Watorta
Chew mansion, at Qermantown avenue tutet
Johnson street, was stricken last night wls
infantile paralysis, the rnarulan U t
porartly closed to visitors ag&jla, it fe iltsjf
pioperly fumigated. The boy wiii. at to
the Philadelphia Hospital lor Canti.nwf
Diseases.
Evening Ledger
't
M
J
-jtf
f
iTlwl'iifMI lii mrrxmm
