Official
Newspaper of
Olympia
VOL. LVI. NO. 20
COWS MAKE LOWER
RECORDS IN JULY
ASSOCIATION TESTER REPORTS
SLIGHT DECREASE IN PRODUC-
TION FOR MONTH.
A slight decrease in produciton is
shown by the July report of Huston
Grover, official tester for the Thurs
ton County Cow-Testing association,
only 55 cows out of the 520 tested
making a record of 40 pounds or
more of butter-fat during the mouth.
Lasßie, a Holstein grade owned by
D. J. Bigelow, heals the "honor list"
with a record of 68.9 pounds of but
ter-fat for the month, while Sue, the
record cow for June, is third, with
60.8 pounds to her credit. The high
est averaging herds are those of Jay
Bolster, with six out of the nine on
the honor liBt; E. Munn, with nine
out of 15, and M. E. Meek, with four
out of eight.
Mr. Grover reports that the mem
bers of the association are taking
much more interest in its work than
during the first month, and states
that several are already planning to
dispose of individual cows in their
herds that have fallen below their
expectations. Three new herds were
tested during July, bringing the total
number of cows up to 520. The new
members of the association are Mrs.
Berwert of Chambers' Lake and A.
D. Campbell and Phil Northcraft of
Tenino.
Following is the "honor list" of all
the cows producing 40 pounds or
more of butter-fat for the month
ended July 25:
Lbs.
Lbs. But.
Owner — Breed. Milk. Fat.
D. J. Bigelow-- Holstein 1680 68.9
C. C. Aspinwall Guernsey 1044 62.6
D. J. Bigelow Jersey 1126 60.8
W. J. Abbott.. Jersey 1163 68.8
E. Munn Jersey 1162 58.1
E. Munn Jersey 1107 57.6
A. B. Campbell Durham 1212 67
C. C. Aspinwall Holstein 1693 55.8
O. G. Cameron Mixed 1064 64.8
O. Gardner Holstein 1212 63.3
Jay Bolster. Guernsey 1098 62.7
D. J. Bigelow Durham 1314 61.2
M. E. Meek Br. Swiss 970 50.6
E. Munn Jersey 933 50.4
E. Munn Jersey 891 49.9
D. J. Bigelow.. Holstein 1059 49.8
W. J- Abbott.. Jersey 1119 49.2
Jay Bolster Durham 1020 49
E. Munn Jersey 902 48.7
E. Munn. Jersey 698 48.1
Will Kelsey Durham 1082 47.5
Jay Bolster Durham 1122 47.1
George Kelly.. Jersey 972 46.6
D. J. Bigelow.. Holstein 1281 46.1
Will Kelsey... Holstein 1209 45.9
E. Munn Jersey 761 45.8
W. J. Wickie Jersey 880 46.8
Jay Bolster Guernsey 876 46.6
Mrs. C. E. Ayer Mixed 772 44.8
W. J. Wickie— Holstein 931 44.7
Jay Bolster Holstein 1143 44.6
D. J. Bigelow Jersey 855 44.5
H. Munn Jersey 755 44.4
H. Sommer Holstein 1132 44.1
John Bush Mixed 1100 44
Gen. Stevens.. Holstein 1160 43.7
D. J. Bigelow.. Mixed 822 43.6
C. C. Aspinwall Guernsey 1062 43.5
M. E. Meek Jersey 580 43.6
John Bush Holstein 890 42.7
C. C. Aspinwall Holstein 760 42
Sleater Bros. Jersey 818 41.7
Mrs. C. E. Ayer Durham 862 41.4
Will Kelsey— Holstein 931 41.4
E. Munn Jersey 726 41.3
A. Koch Ayrshire 939 41.3
M. E. Meek. Durham 645 41.3
A. Koch Holstein 856 41.1
O. Gardner Holstein 930 40.9
Sleater 8r05... Jersey 818 40.6
M. E. Meek Jersey 828 40.5
A. Koch Mixed 862 40.3
George Kelly Jersey 876 40.3
John Bush Mixed 893 40.2
Jay Bolster Durham 834 40
Prosecutors Ask Re-Hearing.
Prosecuting Attorney Geo. P. Yan
tis and the similar officers of 15 other
counties in the state have joined in a
petition to the supreme court for a
re-hearing of the Eden case, involv
ing an Interpretation of the prohibi
tion law, by which they seek to ob
tain a modification of the previous
lecision. As it stands now the deci
sion takes from the law an effective
means of enforcement, the prose
-f cutors say.
The Helping Hand Circle held a
picnic at Priest Point park Thursday.
fSasliraiton
ESTABLISHED NOV. 17, 1860
BIG FIRE IN KKW YORK.
Six Person* Killed anil S2R,OOO,<HH)
Property Destroyed by Kxplwionti.
At least six persons were killed
and property loss estimated at $25,-
000,000 was caused early Sunday by
a Beries of terrific explosions of am-
munition awaiting shipment to the
entente allies and stored on Black
Tom island, a small strip of land
jutting into New York bay off Jersey
City. The cause has not been deter
mined.
The detonations, wlilch were felt
in five states, began with a contin
uous rapid fire of small shells, the
blowing up of great quantities of dy
namite, trainitrotoluene and other
high explosives, followed by the
bursting of thousands of shrapnel
shells, which literally showered the
surrounding country and waters for
many miles around. Fire started
soon after the first great crash.
REPUBLICANS HAVE
COMPLETE TICKET
THIRTY ASPIRANTS SEEK NOMI
NATIONS TO COUNTY OFFICES
IN PRIMARY.
With candidates filed for all of the
county offices, a complete Republican
ticket 1b now In the field for the Sep
tember primaries. Altogether there
are 30 Republicans in the campaign
for nominations for the different
offices. Only one candidate so far
has filed for the Non-Partisan ticket,
but the time for filing does not close
until August 12.
Twelve candidates, 11 of them Re
publicans, filed during the past
week. Among them were P. H. Car
lyon and L. J. Morrison, who seek
re-nominatlon and re-election as sen
ator and representative, respectively;
and Miss Annie Gaston, to succeed
herself as county auditor. C. C.
Aspinwall of Mud Bay and Willtam
F. James and A. N. Sargent of Grand
Mound are also candidates for rep
resentative.
Two more candidates for sheriff,
E. B. Conner and James A. Van
Eaton, filed this week, and another
candidate for engineer, Ernest L.
Wolf. Robert S. Smith of Yelm is
the fourth to enter the race for com
missioner In the Second district,
while Thos. L. O'Leary, who was de
feated by Prosecuting Attorney Geo.
F. Yantis two years ago, again seeks
the nomination for that office on the
Republican ticket.
Whether any more candidates will
file on the Republican ticket is un
known, but as every one previously
announced, with one or two excep
tions, iB now formally in the field,
the general political opinion locally
is that the race is now pretty well
set. Several of the candidates, in
cluding County Superintendent O. C.
GOBS, County Clerk I. N. Holmes,
Treasurer Fred W. Stocking, Auditor
Annie Gaston. Senator P. H. Carylon
and J. C. Sams as commissioner in
the First district, have clear fields
for the nomination. There has been
some talk of primary opposition to
two or three of these, but none has
so far developed.
An Interesting feature of the Re
publican primary situation is that
half of the candidates hail from
Olympia and that the representation
of the other parts of the county in
the primary will be small. The fact
that there are several Olympia aspi
rants for the nominations for three
or four of the offices, however, is ad
vanced by some as an indication that
the outside man has the edge of it on
his city brothers.
Big Delegation for Pioneer Picnic.
Olympia will send a big delegation
to the annual pioneers' picnic at
Rochester next Thursday, August 10,
the Chamber of Commerce announc
ing this week plans for organizing an
automobile excursion on that day. to
leave early in the morning and return
after spending the entire day at the
home-coming celebration. General
Hazard Stevens, president of the
Thurston County Pioneer & Historical
society, is in charge of the pioneer
feature of the day. Dr. J. B. Stanley
of Rochester is supervising the gen
eral arrangements, while the program
is being prepared under the direction
of C. S. Scates of Oakville.
TRY OLYHPIA MERCHANTS FIRST
HEW TO THE LINE; LET THE CHIPS FALL WHERE THEY MAY."
OLYMPIA, WASHINGTON, FRIDAY, AUGUST 4, 1916
NOTED AUTHORS ISSUE GRALLENGE TO HUGHES
PROMINENT PROFESSIONAL WRITERS ASK REPUBLICAN NOMINEE
TO MAKE HIS POSITION CLEAR—PUT PERTINENT QUESTIONS
UP TO CANDIDATE, CHARGING HE HAS NOT OFFERED SINGLE
CONSTRUCTIVE SUGGESTION SO FAR.
On behalf of a committee of distinguished American writers, the exec
utive group of which met in New York Wednesday at the Hotel Biltmore,
George Creel gave out the following open letter:
"To the Honorable Charles E. Hughes:
"The professional writers who sign this letter have small interest in
I arties, but a very deep interest In democracy. It is our hope, through this
voluntary association, to assist in the promotion of honest, educational dis
cussion in order that fundamental issues may not be decided in prejudice
and ignorance.
"Mr. Wilson's beliefs have been expressed in law and in declared poli
cies. He has made an open record by which he may be judged. Wise
choice is not possible unless you yourself make equally specific statement
cf purposes and convictions.
"Without intent to offend, we feel justified in charging that in no
single public utterance have you filed a bona fide bill of particulars, nor
have you offered a single constructive suggestion. Generalities are with
out value; blanket criticism is worthless.
"What we desire to know, what it is fair that the electorate should
know, are the exact details of your disagreement with President Wilson.
What has he done that you would not have done, and what has he failed
to do that you would have done or propose to do? Honesty and patriotism
demand that you put yourself on record in such manner as to permit people
to judge you as they are now able to judge President Wilson. For ex
ample—
"I—Would you have filed instant protest against the invasion of Bel
gium and backed up that protest with the United States navy?
"2—lt is arrant nonsense to talk about action that would have pre
vented the Lusitania tragedy. The vague advertisement did not appear
until shortly before the hour of sailing. The occurrence was one of those
things that civilization has made the world regard as incredible. The only
honest question is this: Would you have broken relations with Germany
at once? |
"3—Would you have urged upon congress an embargo upon the ship
ment of munitions to the allies?
"4 —Would you urge universal compulsory military service?
Questioned as to
"5 —You are frank in stating that Huerta's morals were of no concern
to America; does this mean that you would have recognized Huerta?
"6—As matters stand today, would you be in favor of intervening in
Mexico?
"7—Does your attack upon the Wilson shipping bill mean that you
are in favor of ship subsidies?
"B—Tou Bpeak enthusiastically of the rights of the worker. Does this
imply that you endorse the Clayton anti-trust law and the seamen's bill?
Or will you urge their repeal?
"9—What are yonr specific complaints against the federal reserve law?
"10—As governor of New York, you opposed the income amend
ment; does this antagonism persist? Do you or do you not believe in pay
ing for preparedness out of a tax on incomes. Inheritances and munitions?
"We agree with you that It is a 'critical period,' by far too critical in
deed for candidates to talk In terms of office-seeking rather than in the
simple, earnest language of definite Americanism.
"Respectfully, (signed)
Samuel Hopkins Adams, Ray Stannard Baker, Ellis Parker Butler, L.
Ames Brown, Dante Barton, Irvln Cobb, Wadsworth Camp, J. O'Hara Cos
grave, Stoughton Cooley, William L. Chenery, George Creel, James Forbes,
Frederick C. Howe, Gilson Gardner, Frederick Stuart Greene, Oliver Her
ford, Prof. Louis Johnson, Richard Lloyd Jones, Peter B. Kyne, Percy Mac-
Kaye, A. J. McKelway, Basil Manley, Meridlth Nicholson, Albert Jay Nock,
Harvey J. O'Hlgglns, Charles Johnson Post, Eugene Manlove Rhodes, Will
iam McLeod Raine, Boardman Robinson, John Reed, Opie Reed, Edgar
Selwyn, Win. Leavitt Stoddard, Lincoln Steffins, Augustus Thomas, Frank
V. Rooman, George West.
ATTACKS LEGALITY OF
LEGISLATIVE DISTRICT
Salt Hay Result In Calling Special
Session to Straighten Oat
Muddle.
Washington's legislators may be
called in special session as the result
of mandamus proceedings brought in
the supreme court by Senator E. B.
Palmer of Seattle, chairman of the
senate re-apportionment committee,
to compel the secretary of state to
accept the filing of R. L. Warson for
state senator from Mason and Kitsap
counties. The case will be heard by
the supreme court today in an effort
to work out a badly muddled situa
tion before the primaries.
The suit comes as the result of tke
legislature's failure in the 1913 and
1915 sessions to re-apportion the
senatorial and legislative districts of
the state In accordance with the 1910
census. The constitution makes such
re-districting mandatory. The pres
ent suit is based on the argument
that, as the legislature failed to obey
the constitution, the present districts
are illegal and the districts are as
originally established.
If the supreme court upholds this
argument, the general opinion is that
a special session of the legislature
will be necessary to straighten out
the tangle, though there are some
who claim the court can neither com
pel the governor t> call a special ses
sion nor the legislature to re-appor
tion the state, and that therefore It
will have to legalize the present dis
tricts.
Specific Statement Asked.
CANNERY REOPENED, TO
BE OPERATED ALL SEASON
Local Plant Now Running Full Blast
—Seattle House May Be Closed.
The local cannery is again running
full blast, Manager Mark Ewald hav
ing come over from Seattle and re
opened It the fore part of this week,
and its operation will be continued
throughout the present Beason. The
total production this year will be
about the same as last, 60,000 cases,
Mr. Ewald says.
Inability to obtain fruits and ber
ries in the Seattle markets prompted
the re-opening of the local cannery,
Mr. Ewald said. The firm, the Na-
t'onal Canning company, erected a
large plant in Seattle this spring and
closed down the local cannery, assert
ing that it had to ship in about 90 per
cent of its supply.
The fruit and berry crop this year
is far below normal in all parts of the
state. Mr. Ewald says, and especially
in Eastern Washington, where the
pear orchards were practically ruined
by a heavy frost last May and the
crop will be only about 15 per cent of
normal. It is likely that the com
pany will shut dowr its Seattle plant
within a short time, unless a larger
supply of fruit and berries comes on.
Mr. Ewald says, and will pu f up Its
entire "pack" in the local cannery.
Precinct committeemen do not
have to flip notices of candidacy or
pay any filing fees, according to a
ruling given this week by Attorney
General Tanner.
PRICE FIVE CENTS
WOULD AYOII) BIG STRIKE.
President Watching Railroad Situa
tion—May Offer Aid to Settlement.
With reports from New York that
"a preponderant number of the men
are in favor of a strike," officials of
the federal government, including
Preisdent Wilson, are closely watch
ing developments in the controversy
between 225 railroad systems and
their 400,000 employes, and are pre
paring to offer every possible aid in
effecting an agreement and avoiding
a strike.
Wednesday the president forwarded
to the labor department an appeal he
had received from the Chamber of
Commerce of the United States, de
claring a strike is inevitable "unless
some strong measures of Intervention
are speedily introduced," and urging
an inquiry.
PUT NON-PARTISAN
TICKET IN FIELD
COMMITTEE NOW URGING CANDI
DATES TO FILE FOR COUNTY
OFFICES.
With L. L. Snow, master of the
Thurston County Pomona Grange, as
chairman, and Travis Ayer as secre
tary, a campaign committee of five,
representing various political parties,
is now engaged in a canvass of the
county, urging representative men
and women to file for the different
county offices on the Non-Partisan
ticket.
This committee was authorized at
the meeting of Democrats, Republic
ans and Progressives in this city last
Saturday, when the local political
situation was fully discussed and a
decision made to put * Non-Partisan
ticket Into the field again this fall.
At this time Messrs. Snow and Ayer
were elected to their offices on the
committee and various other mem
bers were suggested.
Hicks First to File.
Already one candidate, C. P. Hicks
of Lacey, son of the pioneer Demo
crat, Gwln Hicks, has filed on the
Non-Partisan ticket for the nomina
tion as county engineer, and others
are expected to file within the next
few days, until there is a complete
ticket in the field. Prosecuting At
torney Geo. F. Yantis will be a canr
didate for re-election.
LIFT
Decision to put a Non-Partisan
ticket into the field this (all was
taken at an enthusiastic meeting in
this city last Saturday, •at which L.
L. Snow presided, and Travis Ayer,
a leader among the younger Orange
workers, was secretary. Representa
tive farmers of different parties at
tended the meeting, participated in
its deliberations and joinfed in the
decision to launch a Non-Partisan
ticket.
Preceding the general meeting at
which this action was taken, the
Democratic county central committee
met in formal session at the call of
Chairman R. M. Fuller, some 15
members attending. A general dis
cussion of the advisability of a
straight Democratic ticket or a Non-
Partisan ticket was had, the unani
mous opinion being in favor of the
latter course. The committee then
adjourned and its members partici
pated in the general meeting which
followed.
Want Best Candidates.
Emphasis at this meeting was laid
upon the character of the candidates,
insistence being placed upon the in
dividual ability of the candidates, re
gardless of party affiliations, and a
determination expressed that the
best possible men would be urged to
file for the different offices on the
Non-Partisan ticket. In line with
this policy was the further one, ex
pressed by several who attended the
meeting, that the Non-Partisan com
mittee endorse candidates for differ
ent offices in the Republican prima
ries, whom It thought capable of
filling the offices to which they aspire
and so entitled to general support.
The launching of a Non-Partisan
ticket fulfills the platform adopted by
Thurston county Democrats in their
Ted Parker of the Capital National
bank, accompanied by E. IT. Butler
and Herbert Hashbersor of Taeoma,
has gone 011 a 10-day trip into the
Olympics.
WHOLE NUMBER 2919
ROBERTS KEEPS MUM
AS TO ACCOMPLICES
TO GO TO REFORMATORY FRIDAY
—GILLIES EN ROUTE TO
WALLA WALLA.
Henry Roberts, the escaped pris
oner from the county jail who was
brought back from Brighton, Colo.,
by Sheriff McCorkle Monday, was
scheduled to leave Olympia Friday
afternoon for the Monroe reforma
tory in the custody of a traveling
guard, to serve blB four years' sen
tence. The commitment papers were
made out Thursday, after several ex
aminations of the prisoner by Prose
, cuting Attorney Geo. F. Yantis and
I Sheriff McCorkle had failed to
j divulge from him any substantial in-
I formation as to those who assisted
! him in the escape,
j Friday, also, the two traveling
I guards who went to Key West, Fla.,
1 to bring back J. F. Gillies, Roberts'
, companion in the jail break, who
j was arrested there Thursday of last
' week, were due to start on the return
with their prisoner, who will be taken
j direct to the Walla Walla peniten-
J tiary. Gillies' motion for appeal was
, formally dismissed in the local supe
j rior court Friday.
For the present at least, neither
| Roberts nor Gillies will be prose
j cuted, though the investigation to
, learn those who may have assisted
them in their escape will be carried
ion and the two prisoners may be
' brought to trial in the fall term of
court. Likewise the charges of com
plicity under which Chester Bateman
| and Mrs. Gillies are held under
SI,OOO bond each, will be held in
j abeyance, pending further investiga
tion.
| Practically the only Information
| Roberts cave, according to the
authorities was that friends of a third
prisoner, who was released before the
jail-break, furnished the keys and
saws which made the escape possible.
Severe questioning of Roberts, how
ever, failed to obtain from him a
confession as to the identity of the
persons who aided them. The result
was that, after he had been confined
to the local Jail three days, prepara
tions were made to send him to the
Monroe reformatory.
LIFT
About the only comment Roberts
would make when he arrived in the
city In the custody of Sheriff Mc-
Corkle Monday evening, was: "I'm
glad to get back and I'm glad Olllles
is caught." Roberts attributes his
capture to the fact that the town
marshal was too industrious and
called the Brighton official "another
Ben Hall—one who knows everything
that is going on." Hall while chief
of police of Olympia originally caused
the arrest of Roberts, who was con
victed of a statutory charge on the
testimony of a girl.
A newspaper story gave the mar
shal his first clue. Then he wired
for instructions. Before his message
was answered he received a circular.
Roberts, knowing the marshal was
suspicious, planned to leave, but was
arrested before he got away.
Roberts had been traveling under
the name of Harry Roland and says
he almost talked the marshal into re
leasing him. All Olympia identifica
tion marks had been removed from
his clothing, but in his suitcase the
marshal found a book containing the
addresses of a score of girls who live
in this vicinity, as well as a clipping
telling of Roberts' ability as a roller
skater.
An interesting feature of the case
developed after SherifT McCorkle's re
turn, when It became known that
when he reached Brighton to claim
Roberts, McCorkle learned that Mar
shal Ton of that city was a "C. O. D."
person and had to pay him the $l5O
reward before he took Roberts away
from Brighton 011 the trip back to
Olympia.
When Roberts and Gillies escaped,
SherifT McCorkle announced he would
pay a reward of $l5O for Roberts in
tho event the county did not. The
next day the commissioners met and
said that if the reward were paid
they would reimburse McCorkle. Rob
erts was captured.
Upon reaching Brighton, Sheriff
McCorkle explained all this to Mar
shal Ton. The latter did not seem to
be overly Impressed. He wanted the
Continued on Page Eight.
Published
Continuously
For 55 Years
