The Glasgow Courier
VOLUME XIII
GLASGOW, VALLEY COUNTY, MONTANA, AUGUST 4, 1910.
NUMBER 14
<8,
SUMMER SCHOO'
WELL ATTENDE!*
Enrollment Passés One Hundred
Mark in First Week.
DAVEE CONING NEXT WEEK
State Superintendent of Public" In
struction Expected Monday. At
tendance Growing Daily.
The summer school for the counties
of Valley, Sheridan and Phillips open
ed in Glasgow Monday forenoon and
at the time of this writing about one
hundred and fifteen teachers have en
rolled for the courses of instruction
and many more are expected.
The summer school this year is es
pecially fortunate in having obtained
such an excellent corps of instructors
and the teachers from the three coun
ties are showing their appreciation by
taking advantage of the opportunity
to attend.
Superintendent of Public Instruc
tion H. A. Davee is expected in the
city next Monday or Tuesday arid he
will hold an evening meeting to which
the general public is invited.
All of the instructors are hard at
work arranging work for the coming
weeks as they plan on making the
1916 summer school one that will be
long remembered by all the teachers
present.
Next week all of the students will
have an opportunity to attend the
Chautauqua entertainments daily and
the following week arrangements for
other entertainments will be made,
among them an automobile ride over
the country, the machines for the ride
being furnished by members of the
commercial club.
BOSTON LYRICS
The marvelous growth of western
chautauquas has made possible the
acquisition of so sterling an oper
atic company as the Boston Lyric
Company. Theirs is a program that
will draw people from miles around
to hear.
Not only will the Boston Lyrics
give a generous repertoire of popular
and classic selections from the Op-|
feras, but will also present the favor-!
ite comic opera "Martha" in costume,
This attraction alone is worth the
price of a season ticket to anyone
who hears them.
The mere announcement of their)
appearance on the" great circuit ofj
western chautauquas has already at
tracted wide attention, and indications
point to a record attendance at the
two Boston Lyric concerts.
R. J. MOORE IN HELENA
If the sentiment of northeastern
Montana is general over the state,
Hughes and the Republican ticket will
carry Montana by an • overwhelming
majority, according to R. J. Moore
of Glasgow, who is in the city on busi
ness.
"We present a solid front to the
Democrats in my part of the state,
and there are no factional quarrels
dividing us as there were four years
ago," said Mr. Moore. "Justice Hughes
is popular and is certain to carry
northeastern Montana."
Mr Moore is the manager of the
Excellent Race Program
For Valley County Fair
The board of Directors of the Val
ley County Fair met in the commer
cial Club rooms Tuesday evening and
made final arrangements for the big
racing program to be pulled off at
the fair Sept. 7-8-9. There will be
as usual, the regular program of
running races from a quarter to a
mile with good sized purses. In ad
dition to this there will be a repit
ition of the endurance, race which
which caused so much excitement last
year. Two added features will be
offered in the way of novelty races,
one of which will be a half mile
bicycle race for boys not over 18 years
of age and the other will be known
as the Thre-em race. This is a race
to create a big line of amusement as
well as to furnish a very large
amount of excitement. The race will
be open to men, mules, and motor
cycles. Each entrant will be handi
capped according to the estimated
speed in which a mile can be covered.
The exact distance to be traversed by
Four Valleys Telephone company, op
erating 450 miles of line and" 10 ex-'
"hanges in the Milk River, Missouri l
"5^ ver, Yelowstone and Redwater val
. His company is now building
80 s of line.—Helena Record.
\
GIF v OR COMPANY G
A numbv e Glasgow ladies are
hard at wor. arranging to send a
big box of goodies to the boys of
Company G. All ladies of Glasgow
and vicinity who desire to send "good
ies" to the boys are requested to
prepare same and deliver at the home
of Mrs. A. N. Peterson not later than
Friday forenoon August 11th, as the
box will be packed for shipment on
that date. Anything in the lines of
canned fruits ,cakes ,etc., suitable for
shipment will be sent. Senders are
requested to enclose cards with gifts.
BAYLOR PICNIC
PROVED SUCCESS
Heavy Rain Made Everyone Feel Hap
py. Was Largely Attended. j
Heavy rainfall, starting about 9:00
o'clock Saturday morning and continu- 1
ing during the balance of thi day
and most of the night prevented the j
big Farmers' Picnic at Baylor from
being as largely attended as was an-!
ticipated. As it was, a very good
crowd assembled and during the after
noon a portion of the sport program
was pulled off. Three quarter mile
running races furnished some excit
ing moments as the finishes werej
close and the horses fast. In the
evening the hall was opened and danc
ing indulged in until late at night.
The dance was attended by a very
large number of the farmers besides
a large delegation from Glasgow who
made the trip in spite of the bad
roads.
Everything was in readiness for a
monster crowd at Baylor and the
committee had every reason to ex
pect the town to be crowded. Al
Mclntyre had charge of the arrange
ments and he worked hard during the
previous week getting the ice cream,
lemonade, tents, seats and all other
materials on the ground so that all
was in rea diness on Saturday morn
ing Thpn the rain came But it
was a ni03t acce p ta ble rain and every!
farmer was so p leaS ed that they
joined in the fun making wJth extra
enthuäiasm . The common expression
was ^j, a ^ a pj cn j c cou id be had at any
time but the rain on , y occasionally .j
About ten cars from Glasgow ar
rived in the evening mied wit h danc
ers and the ha „ wag we „ filledi ev J
eryone having a most enjoyable time.
At 11:30 p. m. the prize waltz was an.
nounced about 15 couples competing.
These were gradually sorted out un
til three couples were left who were
closely watched by the judges, the de
cision finally going to Mr. and Mrs.
Peterson. Then supper was served,
and it was a dandy. After that
more dancing, then home, tired, mud
dy, but happy.
Music for the dance was furnished
by the Runyon orchestra of Glasgow
and was something worth going a
long ways in mud and rain for the
privilege of hearing it. There were
five pfeces in the orchestra and when
the music started every foot in the
hall was going and everybody danced.
each entrant has not as yet* been fig
ured out but the motorcycle will
travel at least a half mile and pos
sibly a mile while the other compet
itors are making their distance.
There will also be an automobile
race different from that which has
been previously held. This race will
be open only to stock cars and there
will be no one allowed to strip or in
any way prepare their car for the
race. It must go into the race in the
same condition as it is used daily and
the owner must drive the car. There
will be no entrance fee charged to
enter this race.
Harness races will not be added
to the program this year. The dir
ectors intended to add a harness race
each day but the necessity of a large
purse in order to attract good horses
for this class of races make it too
expensive for the Fair Association
and it was decided not; to add them.
Programs of the races are being
printed and will be mailed out within
a week or ten days.
SHERIFF BREAKS UP
GANG OF RUSTLERS
Four Men Arrested Near Hinsdale for Stealing Horses
and Cattle.
LIVED IN COUNTY FOR MANY YEARS
Ottenstrauer Boys and Step-Father Were Well Known in Neigh
borhood of Hinsdale. Many Surprised to Learn
of Trouble i
Frank, Ben, and Joe Ottenstrauer,
and their step-father, Chas. W. Smith,
all living in the vicinity of Hinsdale,
were arrested by Sheriff "Puck" Pow
ell, Deputies Clarence Hall and Jack
Teal, late Sunday night south of the
Milk River, near Vandalia, on a
charge of rustling stock. They were
assisted in running down the men by
Stock Inspector Jas. McCoy. Thej
men arrested were arraigned before j
Judge Evans, and held for preliminary!
hearing on August 9th. j
For some time past there has been I
evidence of cattle and horse stealing 1
in the western part of the county, and j
Sheriff Powell has been suietly work-j
ing ot> the case. He spent the past j
two weeks following up what he con-1
sidered good evidence pointing to the
parties arrested as being the men
wanted. By following a number of
clews over various sections of the
county, leading up to the Canadian
line and to the east, as well as ex
tending below the Missouri river, the
sheriff finally came to the conclusion
that he was on the right track.
An insection of the ranch owned by
Smith brought out the finding of a
number of head of cattle on the place
bearing the brand of Mrs. Smith, as
well as that of other registered
brands. The Smith ranch is located
about five miles east of Hinsdale on
the south side of the Milk river andj
here were found many suspicious con^;
ditions which finally lead up to the f
arrest. On Friday night Sheriff |
Powell and Deputy Hall left Glasgow,
They went to the Smith ranch and
then into the hills near there where j
WHY?
Why has Judge Utter always called a large jury, and
then excused one-half to two-thirds of them?
Why has he offered to advance money to persons call
ed to serve as jurors
THE REASON
By calling a large jury list he comes in contact with
more people, and at the expense of the tax payers is thus
enabled to use his court for political purposes.
By excusing a great number of those summoned to
act as jurors, with a few words expressed for purely per
sonal political reasdns, he endeavors to impress upon
them the inconvenience which they will experience by bt
ing compelled to act as jurymen at that time, and that he
being a public benefactor necessarily shares their incon
venience, and at the expense of the tax payer excuses
them hoping and trusting that he has made another vote
for himself, and disregarding the fact, that the trial of
cases is delayed, and additional expense incurred.
Judge Utter has never informed the persons serving
as jurors that they are entitled to go to the Clerk of the
Court and draw their mileage for one way upon arrival,
and their per diem every day for each days' attendance,
but has informed them from the bench that he will ad
vance a small portion thereof as a personal favor, thereby
endeavoring to place the members of the jury under some
obligation to him, the compensation being their vote when
the judge is up for re-election.
THE RESULT
The expense incurred for each juror in attendance is
in the neighborhood of from fifteen to twenty dollars,
and as all the court expenses of the various counties must
be borne by the tax payers, it is needless to say that un
necessary court expenses is an additional burden upon
them.
THE REMEDY
Let us use every effort to place a judge upon the
bench that is competent, one that will not use his court
for political purposes, at the expense of the poor tax pay
er, one* that will not try to jolly the public into thinking
that he is acting for them, and them alone, when the real
reason is purely selfish and political, one that will not be
influenced by self greed, one that will handle the business
with an earnest endeavor to meet out justice fairly and
intelligently, irrespective of the consequences, either po
litical or otherwise, and then and only then will court ex
penses be reduced and justice dispensed with integrity.
—The Malta Enterprise. »
they remained for two days watching
the place and gathering evidence
which made it certain in their minds
that the guilty men were there.
Sunday night they decided to make
the arrest and started to the ranch.
On th® way they met one of the boys
who at once started to leave the road
and ride into the hills on horseback.
He was ordered to stop but kept go
ing until Deputy Sheriff Hall pulled
j out a Winchester riflè, when he de
cided it was best to wait and see what
j was wanted of him. When told he
I quietly submitted to arrest and came
1 with the others peacefully.
j Nine head of cattle found on the
Smith place were identified by J. P.
j Peterson of Baylor, as belonging to
him and were driven home. Mr.
Peterson had been advertising them
as strayed for a long time. Among
others who had lost cattle which were
found at the Smith place were Moses
Alderman of Baylor, who lost three
head, Harry Woodard, three head, and
Dahl Bros, three head of horses. The
horses were recovered from various
farmers who had bought or traded
for them with Smith or the Otten
struer boys.
The boys under arrest have been
residents of the vicinity of Hinsdale
for a great many years, in fact they
have practically grown up at the
ranch where the stock was recovered.
Their step-father is an old resident
of this section and well known. It
f came as a great surprise to many peo
| pie who have known them when it
was learned they had been apprehend
ed upon such a serious charge.
j It was supposed that all the stock
rustlers of the northern part of the
state had been either sent to Deer
Lodge or run out of the country, but
there were so many complaints of
cattle and horses disappearing, com
ing to the sheriff's office, that he de
cided there must be some one working
the old game again. He at once be
gan to investigate and within a short
time came upon the fact that the herd
of cattle and horses of Smith and the
Ottenstrauer boyâ was growing in a
remarkable manner. Suspicion being
aroused they were watched with the
result that they now will face very
serious charges with evidence strong
against them that it will be hard to
prove them guiltless.
WEATHER FORECAST
Generally fair tonight and Satur
day. Cooler southeast portion. Warm
er Saturday.
LOCAL OPTION
ELECTION OFF
Sheridan County Commissioners Deny
Petition Which Lacks Names.
Word has been received here that
the county commissioners of Sheridan
county have denied the petition for a
local option election, it being found
that the petition Was short 200 of the
1,500 names of tax-paying electors re
quired. The fight for a local option
ballot has been proceeding in Sheridan
county for nearly a year and at one
time it was believed enough names to
call an election would be secured. At
torney C. B. Nolan of Helena repre
sented the drys in the procedure be
fore the commissioners, and Attorney
W. D. Rankin of Helena the wets. The
action of the commission is believed to
settle the matter until the entire state
has voted on the liquor question.
CHAUTAUQUA BOOSTER TRIP
Next Monday, August 7th, has been
planned as "Chautauqua Booster Trip"
when the Glasgow band will play in
a parade through town and thence
to Nashua and return to Glasgow for
lunch at noon. At -1.00 o'clock the
boosters will leave for a trip to Saco,
stopping at the towns along the way
and returning the same evening. All
chautauqua boosters are requested to
get in line with their cars and go
along on at least one of the trips.
The automobiles will leave from the
Commercial Club rooms at 8:00 a. m.
The following boosters have agreed
to furnish cars for the tour and if
you can go and have not been called
on please call Rev. R. D. Brittain,
phone 124 L.
Johnson Farm Loan Co.
F. L. Sherman.
Ward Maris.
Otto M. Christinson.
C. R. St. Clair.
C. W. Powell.
Log House Insurance Co.
J. I. Lebert.
W. B. Shoemaker. •
DYSENTERY AMONG SOLDIERS
Word comes from Douglas, Ari
zona to the effect that dysintery in
a mild form has broken out in the
ranks of the Second Montana Infan
try. Telegraphic reports are t<J the
effect that more than 200 cases exist
in this one company alone. This is
the company in which the Glasgow
boys are serving.
Republicans Are Urged
To Attend Helena Rally
Special to The Courier:
Dillon, Aug. 3.—Every Republican
in Montana, and Republican candi
dates especially, are invited to Hel
ena to meet Charles E. Hughes, Sat
urday, August 12, in a general invi
tation today issued by Senator E. O.
Selway, chairman of the Republican
state central committee, through the
members of the state central commit
tee. Because of the impossibility of
personally reaching all Republicans
and all t candidates, because of the
short time elapsing, Chairman Sel
way adopted this method.
"I have requested state central com
mitteemen to inform and invite coun
ty chairmen, and members of the
county central committees and to ask
th" county committees to invite and
urge all members of the party to
come to Helena, and particularly ev
ery Republican candidate on both
state and county tickets.
"The visit of Hughes will open the
Republican campaign in Montana,"
said Chairman Selway. "The out
SAD DROWNING
AT JUREK RANCH
Three Small Boys Meet Death
While Swimming.
ALL FROM ONE FAMILY
Tragedy Not Discovered By Parents
Until Hours After. Funeral
Held Wednesday.
Teddy, Steve, and Felix Jurek aged
eight, 10, and lâ, respectively, child
ren of Mr. and Mrs. Frank Jurek,
were drowned in a reservoir on the
Oscar Johnson farm located about
seven miles southwest of Glasgow
sometime late Sunday afternoon. The
sad information of the tragedy was
brought to the city early Monday
morning by the 13 year old sister of
the little ones, who stated that the
family was unable to recover the
bodies and appealed for aid. J. P.
Mclntyre and Sam Grossman took a
large party of men in their auto
mobiles, lçft at once for the scene
of the drowning accompanied by cor
oner • C. E. Peterson. In the mean
time several neighbors of the Jurek's
had recovered the little bodies and
placed them in charge of the coroner
upon his arrival. They were found
all lying close together in about six
feet of water. The supposition is
that all three were drowned in an
attempt to save one that had ventured
beyond his depth.
From information secured at the
ranch home of the Jurek's it was
learned that the children were in the
habit of swimminf in the reservoir,
it being situated about a quarter of
a mile from the house and adjoining
their ranch. Sunday afternoon Mr.
Johnson discovered the clothing of the
boys on the bank of the reservoir and
informed the father of the circum
stance but he supposed that the boys
in playfulness had hid somewhere and
would show up soon. Later their
continued absence aroused the par
ents suspicion and a search of the
ranch was made for them. The cloth
ing was found still lying on the bank
on the reservoir and the only conclu
sion to be arrived at was that they
were drowned. An attempt was made
to discover the bodies and recover
them but it failed and Monday morn
ing early the oldest girl was sent to
town to ask for aid.
When the tragedy became known in
the city it was but short time until
several automobile loads of men rush
ed to the scene ready to do everything
possible to recover the bodies. In
the mean time Mr. Johnson and other
neighbors had located them and they
were placed t on the bank of the res
ervoir when the Coroner arrived who
immediately took charge of them.
Funeral services for the three little
ones was held at the Catholic church
at 9:00 o'clock Wednesday morning.
The sad loss of these three little
tots came as a great shock to the
parénts as well as to the entire com
munity and the utmost sympathy is
extended in this hour of bereavement.
They were the eldest of eight child
ren, the five remaining ranging from
a baby to six years old.
Don't forget the ball game Sunday.
look for success was never brighter
and it behooves every Republican to
do what he can to attain it. Every
Republican can start the ball rolling
by attending the Hughes meeting at
Helena."
WEATHER WAS HOT
The weather the past week has
been exceptionally hot throughout the
entire country especially the eastern
states. While the city of Glasgow
has had it considerably warmer than
usual we have been more fortunate
than other parts of the state and have
had nothing like the terriffic heat
which has prevailed in eastern cities.
Many eastern cities report the high
est temperature in years. According
to the observer at the local bureau the
hottest day of the past week here was
on Wednesday when the thermometer
stood at 95 degrees. On this same
day it reached 101 at Miles City and
Chicago reported 110 degrétes of heat.
Artistic Printing at the Courier.
