1 H
I H
: '- .....
Way's Metal Prices TJvV tVrfvXrfWI Sfcf wXwv -I 4 P- CITY EDITION I
I I ,Cad'r!!,nnUoelter' not quotcd; cop- v f 7 VX WEATHER Utah: Local Thunder
per, $25.0027.00. p II Showers Tonight or Sunday; Not
H " Much Change In Temperature.
I FEARLESS, INDEPENDENT, PROGRESSIVE NEWSPAPER. . ' ' I
I -,Xth YCarN-186 - Pr,ce c - OGDEN CITY, UTAH, FRIDAY EVENING, AUGUST-yl Entered a. second c,'- Matte, at th. ST
Russians Are Advancing On Kovel I
I ' j I
I Desperate Fighting On At Verdun I
FRENCH HAMMERING BACK GERMANS
, AT GATES OF GREAT FORTRESS
I .
II Brilliant Attack Made at Fleury and French Carry It by Storm
F Crown Prince Furiously Counter-attacks and Troops
I Regain Southern Section of Village Small Gains
I on Somme Front Russians Break Strong Teu-
t tonic Resistance and Break Through to
I Within 19 Miles of Kovel Austro-
: Germans Gaining Ground.
i
J Desperate fighting is in progress
) north of Verdun, where the French,
three days ago. took the offensive
and have scored notable gains in the
effort to drive the Germans who had
; been hammering at the gates of the
j fortress for more than five months.
After pushing to the outskirts of
.; the village of Fleury, three miles
I north of Verdun on Wednesday night,
j the French brilliantly attacked the
S place yesterday and carried it by
storm. Last night the crown prince's
1 troops launched a furious counter at-
tack and succeeded in retaking the
' southern section of the village, being
! unable, however, to wrest the north
! ern portion of it from General Ne
' ville's forces.
; Fleury, however, is not the only
i point where the French have scored
: advances. In the attack on a three-
.-j mile front east from the river Meuse
they pushed north along the river to-
i ward the Vacherauvllle wood and the
1 Cote du Poivre and further east, at-
; tacking and gaining possession of the
Thiaurnont redoubt. They found the
) Thiaurnont position untenable, how-
ever, because of the German bombard-
) ment and were compelled to withdraw
from it.
Meanwhile fighting on the Somme
i front has dwindled to minor opera-
tions. London reports the gain of
,). sonic ground in such operations to the
j west of Pozieres.
t After having been temporarily held
up In the Stokhod region by the per
) sistent Teutonic resistance, the Rus-
sians have succeeded in effecting a'
1 new advance, according to Petrograd's
i official announcement today, captur
l ing the village of . Rudka-Mlrynskaia
! on the Stavok.
j The latest Russian success brings
them within 19 miles of Kovel, the
S railroad center which is the objective
j of their Volhynian campaign.
I ' "
Germans Forced Behind the Stavok.
) Pelrograd, Aug. 4, via London, 3:10
p. ni. Russian troops have captured
the village of Rudka-Mirynskala on
the river Stavok a left tributary of
the Stokhod, it was officially an
nounced today by the Russian war
; department. Rudka-Mirynskala is 19
) ralles east of Kovel.
! The statement follows:
"Western front: In the region of
Lublszow, (northeast of Kovel) our
detachments crossed to the left bank
of the- river Stokhod and took a se-
ries of heights on which they fortified
' thoinselveB.
I; "On the river Stavoka, a left trlbu-
tary of the Stokhod, our detachments
fought their way to the river where
an obstinate engagement took place
:, for tho village of Rudka-Mirynskala,
i' "Bayonet fighting took place in the
: streets and although the village
t. changed hands several times it final
' ly remained in our possession. All
enemy attempts to dislodge ub ended
' in failure.
"The enemy was forced back be
hind the river Stokhod and we took
i; 600 Germans prisoner and captured
,: twelve machine guns.
"In the region of Korytnik an ene
'i my attack was repelled by our fire.
On the rest of the front the usual ar-
tillery duel is proceeding.
: "Caucasian front: There was noth
1 1 ing of importance to report."
ITALIAN STEAMSHIP SUNK,
t London, Aug. 4, 1:10 p. m. The
t '
Italian steamship Citt di Messina of
2,454 tons gross, has been sunk, ac
cording to an announcement made at
Lloyd's today.
The Citt di Messina was 300 feet
long, 40 feet beam and 15 feet deep.
She was built at Sunderland in 1894.
Another Italian steamer of the same
name, which had been fitted out as
an auxiliary cruiser, was sunk by a
Teutonic submarine in the Strait of
Otranto last June.
Two Schooners Torpedoed.
Havre, Aug. 4. Two British schoon
ers were torpedoed in the English
channel on Wednesday night. Tho
crews were rescued and brought
here.
Belgians Are Advancing.
Havre, Aug. 4, 5:10 a. m. Further
progress for the Belgian forces !n
vading German East Africa, is an
nounced in an official statement Issued
by the Belgian war office. The text
of the statement follows:
"The right (wing of the Belgian
troops, pursuing its march southward
has occupied Kigimoa in the distric
of Ujiji, the most important Germn
post on Lake Tanganyika. KIgimo'
Is the terminus of the railroad from
Dar Es Salaam, the capital of the,
colony, to the lake."
Two Steamers Sunk.
London, Aug. 4, 9:50 a. m. Tho Ja
panese steamer Kohina Maru and the
British steamer G. C. Gradwell have
been sunk.
The Kohina Maru was a vessel of
1,1 G2 tons. She was last reported
sailing from Barry for Bizerta, Tunis,
on July 14.
Italian Submarine Sunk.
Rome, Aug. 4, via Paris, 9:15 a, m.
The loss of two Italian submarines is
officially announced. The statement
says "the submarines left with others
on a mission to the enemy coast a
long time ago. As they have failed to
return to their base, they are consid
ered lost."
A Vienna dispatch, of August 3, re
ported the capture of Italian subma
rine Giacotlno Pulllno by the Aus
trians in the north Adriatic It was
stated the sub marine, whicS1 was one
of the largest owned by Italy, was
almost undamaged and her crew had
been taken prisoners.
Italians Issue Decree.
Rome, Aug. 4, via Paris, 3 p. m.
Tho Italian government, according to
the Messaggero, is about to publish
a decree forbidding all Italians, In
cluding those living abroad, from do
ing business with nationals in alliance
with enemies of Italy. Agreements
made in spito-of the prohibition, it is
stated, will be considered void and
the makers will be punished.
Suez Canal Bombarded.
London, Aug. 4, 3:45 p. m. A boni
foardment of shipping on the Suez ca
nal by hostile aeroplanes was an
nounced today In an official statement.
The attack was carried out by two
machines over Lake TImsah, 45 miles
south of Port Said. The town of Is
malla on the lake border, also was
s bombarded. No damage was done by
I SO THE PEOPLE MAY KNOW
I That at this time the most prosperous period that Og-
den has ever enjoyed there are people in this community . in
I want and distress. Not people who have received that position
i through shif tlessness, carlessness or extravagance ; but people
of our best blood people of the heroic class who have let
I fathers, sons and husbands their means of support go to
M f the front to protect their country
' Now it's up to the people of Ogden to take care of these
1 j dependents until such time as government relief is offered
9 What are we going to do about it?
1 National Guard Benefit Fund Ogden Standard, $50.00
a month for 12 months; Dr. Kanzler, $2.00 a month for 12
K months; Methodist Sunday School, $5.00; Oracle Theatre,
I ) $5.00 a month for 6 months ; A. W. Meek, $ 1 .00 ; C. B. Sears,
Ml $5.00; O. A. Parmley, $5.00; Dr. E. P. Mills, professional
S j service, $5.00.
either attack, according to the official
statement, which says:
"Two enemy aeroplanes dropped a
large number of bombs in an attack
on shipping on Lake Timsah and the
town of Ismalla, on Thursday. No
damage was done.
"An Avlatlk was brought down and
wrecked in a combat with a British
machine on Wednesday, near Salma
nla." Berlin, Aug, 4. By wireless to Say
ville. The German admiralty today
announced that English motor sailing
vessels and one English trawler, were
sunk' by a German submarine off the
English east coast on July 28.
Austro-Germans Gain Ground.
Berlin, Aug. 4, via London, 5:0G p.
m. Austro-German troops have re
gained all the territor ywhlch they had
lost in the region of Rudka-Mirynskala
to the east of Kovel, according to
the German official statement today.
The Teutons also gained ground in
the Carpathian mountains in the re
gion of Kopilas.
London, Aug. 4, 4:50 p. m. Minor
operations last night by the British
on the Somme front resulted in the
gain for them of some ground west of
Pozieres, the war office announced
today.
Germans Regaining Fleury.
Berlin, Aug. 4, via London, 5:05 p
m. The village of Fleury, north of
Verdun, was regained by the Germans
this morning, it was officially an
nounced today by the German army
headquarters.
The situation at Fleury and its
vicinity, the statement adds, now Is
the same as it was before the French
attack.
OFFICIAL REPLY
FR0MMFX1C0
Ambassador-Designate Arre
dondo Announces Appoint
ment of Three Members
of Joint Mediation
Commission.
TO ACT PROMPTLY
Foreign Secretary Aguilar
Hopes to Arrive at Early So
lution of Difficulties.
Washington, Aug. 4. General Car
ranza's reply to the last American
note accepting his suggestion for a
joint commission to adjust border dif
ficulties but proposing a broader scope
for the commission's work was deliv
ered to the state department today
by Eliseo Arredondo, the Mexican ambassador-designate.
It announces the
appointment of three Mexican commis
sioners with instructions to "devote
their attention preferably to the reso
lution of the points mentioned in the
previous note."
Thus the de facto government ap
parently rejects the proposal that the
commissioner consider other questlous
than the military' situation and limits
its discussions to the subjects origin
ally suggested by Carranza with
drawal of American troops from Mexi
co; formulation of a protocol to cover
future operations against bandits and
intervention of interests which may
have promoted border raids. Whether
this will be satisfactory to the Ameri
can government has not been indi
cated. The noto was in Spanish and
when he went to today's cabinet meet
ing Acting Secretary Polk declined to
discuss it until an official translation
could be made.
If It Is accepted the next step will
bo negotiations betwen Mr. Polk and
Mr. Arredondo to fix the time and
place for the meetings of the commis
sioners. President Wilson already
has under consideration a number of
places to be selected. e
Washington, Aug. 4. Eliseo Arre
'ondo, Mexican ambassador-designate,
delivered a note to the state depart
ment today, replying to the last
American communication to tho de
facto government and announcing the
appointment of thrco Mexican mem
bers of a joint commission to under
take settlement of border difficul
ties. The text or tho noto follows:
"Mr. Secretary: I have the honor
to transmit to Your Excellency the
following note, which I have just re
ceived from rav government:
"Mr. Secretary: 'In due reply to
the courteous note of the department
of slate, dated July 28, 1916, I have
the honor to say to Your Excellency
that the First Chief of the Constitu
tionalist army In charge of the execu
tive power of the Mexican republic
congratulates himself upon the lnud
able efforts of the American govern
ment to arrive at a solution of existing
difficulties between the two countries,
and to that effect, considering It of
the greatest Importance that a prompt
decision bo reached of the points
which have caused the existing dlf-
! TROOPS IN MEXICO OBLIGED TO
SINK WELLS TO OBTAIN WATER
'
1 -
The scarcity of water in Mexico has proved one of the biggest urouiems
for the army men to solve. Some of the soldiers at Pershing's heaaauarters
at Colonia Dublan have sunk a well in the camp. Here most of the drinking
water is obtained. The water from this well is not like the water from tho
spring wells in the mountains and is not cold, but it is free from germs and
that is th main essential..
ferene'es between the "United States
and Mexico referred to in the note of
the Mexican government, dated July
4, last, has seen fit to appoint at once
a commission of three persons consti
tuted by Licenciate Luis Cabrera,
Engineer Ignacio Bonillas and En
gineer Alberto J. PanI to whom In
structions have been given to devote
their attention preferrably to the reso
lutlon of the points mentioned in the
previous note of this department.
" 'Licenciate Eliseo Arredondo has
been authorized to treat with the de
partment of state tho matter of de
tails relating to the place and date In
which the commissioners of the Mexi
can government should meet the clm
missioners of the United States In or
der to commence their labors.
" 'I retlerate to Your Excellency
the assurance of my highest consid
eration. " 'C. Aguilar, Secretary of Foreign
Relations.'
"I avail myself of this new occas
slon to renew to Your Excellency tho
assurance of my highest considera
tion. "E. ARREDONDO."
Hoping for an early solution of
pending difficulties was confidently
expected by Mr. Arredondo after leav
ing the department. He said he ex
pected to reach an agreement with
Mr. Polk by tomorrow as to the date
and place of meeting and that teller
upon he would wire tho Mexican com
missioners with the expectation that
thoy would be here In at least ten
days. He said Asbury Park, N. J.,
or Old Point Comfort, Vo., probably
would be selected.
It Is expected that when Senor
Cabrera, who is secretary of finance,
leaves tho federal capital, control of
tho finance department will be vested
In Rafael Mleto, the sub-treasury.
It Is believed that It will be neces
sary to fill temporarily tho post of
sub-treasury for foreign affairs. Juan
N. Amador, the present occupant, Is
gravely 111 and will be unable to per
form the duties of the office for some
time.
Commissioners En Route.
Mexico City, Aug. 4. The departure
from Mexico City of Luis Cabrera
and Albert Panl, who, with Ygnaclo
Bonillas, have been selected to reach
a settlement with the United States
commissioners of the Questions at
Issue between tho two countries, will
not be long delayed, according to
general belief here.
It is possible that the commissioners
may travel north on one of the ves
sels of the Mexican navy, tho Bravo
or the Zaragoza which are now at
Vera Cruz, if it appears that their
departure would be delayed by the
Infrequent sailing of merchant vessels.
HUHI
"O, Matrimony makes me laugh,"
,,r, SaId bacholor Bill Blng;
Thoy call a wife the better alf.
When she's the whole blamo thing.
CLIFF DWELLERS'
CAVES FOUND
Captains With Pershing Ex
pedition Find Homes of An
cient People in Escon
didos Mountains.
Field Headquarters, American Pu
nitive Expedition, Aug. 3. Via Radio
to Columbus, N. AL, Aug. 4 Caves of
ancient cliff dwellers were discovered
today, by Captains Georgo F. Patten
and Hugh S. Johnson while on a hunt
ing trip In the Escondldos mountains.
The caves were smoke grimed. Frag
ments of pottery were strewn on the
floor. There was no sign of writing
or other characters. The dwellings
were said to bo somewhat similar to
those near Flagstaff, Arizona.
General J. J. Pershing returned to
day from El Vallo, and Major-General
Tasker H. Bliss reached headquarters
from the United States.
BRITISH PEOPLE
ARE CELEBRATING
London, Aug. 4, 4:31 p. m. Every
town nnd village In the British Isles
as well as places throughout the em
pire, today observed the second an
niversary of Great Britain's declara
tion of war. Meetings were held and
resolutions passed, declaring "a de
termination to continue to a victori
ous end a struggle in tho maintenance
of these ideals of liberty and justice
which are the common and sacred
causo of the allies.'-
Threo meetings had been arranged
foo London. In the afternoon Sir
Francis Lloyd, general officer com
inanding the London district, spoke to
4,000 wounded from the London hos
pitals. - "
DAY IN CONGRESS
Washington, Aug. 4. Senate: Re
sumed debate on child labor bill. Con
ferences were continued on naval and
army appropriation hills.
House: Considered conference re
port on agricultural appropriation
bllJ.
1 nn
A hovel umbrella Is equipped with a
storage battery electric light in Its
handle.
VERDUN AGAIN CENTER OF WAR I
STAGE; GREAT ELATION IN FRANCE I
Great Three-day Offensive Marks Epoch in the Six Battles for I
the Great Fortress of the Meuses French Still Holding
North Section of Fleury and Violent Struggle Still I
Going On German Artillery Powerful, But .
Crown Prince No Longer Able to Throw
in Masses of Troops or Operate on . jH
. Old Overwhelming Scale.
Paris, Aug. 4. Noon. On the right
bank of the river near Verdun the
battle continues along the front of
ThiaumontJ-FIeury, the German at
tacking several times during the
night with great force, it was an
nounced officially this afternoon by
the French war office.
At one period of the fighting the
French entered Thiaurnont earth
works but withdrew, owing to the In
tensity of the German bombardment,
taking eighty prisoners.
Around Fleury the struggle was
equally violent, the statement adds,
the Germans attacking the -village
several times and succeeding finally
in getting a footing in the south part
of the village. The French still are
holding the northern section of the
placo and fighting is still going on.
All the attempts made by the Ger
mans to drive the French from the
station southeast of Fleury were frus
trated. Germans Thrown Back.
The French positions" at Vacherau
vllle also were attacked during the
night but tho French war department
declares tho Germans were thrown
back with severe losses.
Verdun Again War Center.
Verdun is again in the center of the
var stage. The recapture by the
Freuch of nearly allthe village of
Fleury which had been held by the
Germans for more than a month has
caused great elatiqn in France. It
is the first fruit of the French slow
and methodical offensive begun three
days ago and seems, in the opinion
of French military' observers, to mark
an epoch In the six battles for the
great fortress on the Meuse.
The Germans appear to be less and
less capable of operating on their old
overwhelming scale and the initia
tive, military men here think, is
about to pass to the French for good.
Wliil o the German artillery con
tinues to be as powerful and as well
supplied as ever, the Germans no
longer are able to gather the masses
of troops necessary to reap the bene
fit of artillery preparation.
German's Last Big Attack.
It is twenty days since the Ger
mans made their last big attack on
the right bank of the Meuse by which
they obtained small results at a
heavy cost. On the left bank of the
Meuse nothing beyond local actions
have been attempted by the Invaders
for a week.
French bomb throwers for a fort-i
night past, in anticipation of the
present offensive had been creeping
forward by tho Vlgnes ravine, west
of. Froldo Terre, with the object of
geiting near Thiaurnont work by
working around Hill No. 3G5.
The bombers first renched the Bras
Fleury road. They then separated.
Into two parties, one going to the
eastward toward Thiaurnont work
and the second pushing northward to
ward Vacherauvllle and Pepper hill.
Last week the first party stormed
a redoubt west of Thiaurnont nnd aft
er a stiff fight went beyond that posi
tion. The second party reached the
little wood of Vacherauvllle.
Timev Ripe for Attack.
The whole section from Vacherau
vllle to tho approaches of Souvllle
thus wero In the hands of the Frenc
and the higher command judged tho
time ripe to attack from all sides at
011ce-
Attacked from the northwest and
tho southeast tho Germans in Fleury
offered desperate resistance, but the
French bayonets finally prevailed.
Some Germans managed to escape to
the Vaux-le-Chapltre wood but a ma
jority was taken prisoner.
Three-day Offensive.
To sum up, the French in the last
three days of offensive regained all
the grounds that the Germans had
taken soveral weeks to conquer.
They took all the positions for a
dqpth of about a mile from the slopes
of Souvlllo fort to the approaches of
Hill No. 320 as well as In tho woods
east of Vacherauvllle and in the
Vignes ravine which borders to the
weBt of Froide Torre hill. The
French also Installed themselves In
positions, southwest, south and south
east of the famous Thiaurnont woods.
The statement given out this after
noon by tho French war department
in which it is admitted that the Ger
mans have sucoeeded in re-capturing
a portion of the village of Fleury, ,is
as follows:
"On tho right hank of the Meuse
the battle continued along the Thiau-mont-Fleury
front, which the Ger
mans atacked last night with great
ferocity. Several counter attacks in
large numbers upon our positions
near the Thiaurnont work were re-
pulsed with heavy losses for our ad-
versarles. In the course of this fight- .H
ing our troops even occupied the ,
Thiaurnont work but they were com-
pelled subsequently to evacuate it
under the powerful German bombard-
ment. They brought back with them
eighty prisoners.
"There has been fighting no less
violent in the region of Fleury. The
Germans multiplied the number o
counter attacks upon this village.
Each was preceded by an intense
preparatory artillery fire. After sev
eral fruitless endeavors the Germans
secured a footing in the southern
part of Fleury where very spirited
fighting still is going on. All efforts
made to dislodge us from the posi
tion to the southeast of this village
were checked by the resistance of our
troops. Il
"The enemy attacked in like man
nor during the .night pur new posU.,,
tions to the east' of Vacherauvllle.
They succeeded only in suffering IH
heavy losses. In the vicinity of Vaux-Ie-Chapitre
and Chenois the artillery
fighting has been very spirited.
"In the Vosges yesterday the ene
my delivered upon the salient at La
Chapelotte an attack which was how
ever, dispersed before our adversar
ies could reach our lines.
"The night passed in relative quiet
on the rest of the front.
"During the night of August 3-4 one
of our air squadrons dropped eighty
shells of large caliber on the rail
road station at Noyon and on a mu- IH
uition3 factory. Fifty shells were
thrown by another squadron upon
railroad stations and bivouacs of the
enemy in the region of the Somme."
French Storm Fleury.
Paris, Aug. 4. Attacking simultane
ously from the northwest and from
the southeast, French troops yester
day stormed the village of Fleury, ,
three miles north of Verdun and cap
tured several hundred Germans. In
tho evening, however, the Germans IH
launched a furious counter attack and IH
after several violent attempts sue- jH
ceeded in getting a footing in the jH
southern part of the village. The jH
French today continue to hold the
northern section of the place and iH
heavy fighting is in progress. , jH
Thursday Night Report. ' jH
The French official statement is- IB
sued last night by the French war iH
department announcing the capture IH
of Fleury by the French troops and
recording other operations of the day
along tho western front said:
"On the Somme front there was no jH
Infantry action in the course of the
day. An artillery duel continues In
the region of Monacu farm. .
"On the right bank of the Meuse ,
our infantry, continuing their offen- ,
slve action on the Thlaumont-Fleury ,
front captured during the day by a .
series of violent attacks all the IH
trenches comprised between these Vm
two points as far as a point southeast
of Thiaurnont work and In the vicln- j
ity of Hill No. 320.
"The village of Fleury was attack- ,
ed simultaneously on the northwest
and on the southeast and was en
tlrely occupied by our troops after a
brilliant action. The number of prls
oners taken In the course of this ac I
tion and so far counted exceeds 650.
This brings up to 1750 the total num
ber of unwounded prisoners taken
by xk on the right bank of the Meuse
since August 1. , lm
"About the same time we delivered
in tho region of Chenois a sharp at- (
tack which enabled, us to recover the
greater part of the ground lost by us
the day before yesterday.
On the rest of the front there j
was Intermittent cannonading. IM
"Aviation: During the night of Au- .
gust 2-3 our battle aeroplanes drop
ped projectiles on the stations of .
Hem and Noyen. This morning an .
aeroplane o tho enemy dropped a
bomb on Nancy. There were no vie- ,
Urns and no damage was done. Font- .
a-Mousson also was bombed but to no IH
1
SHOWERS BREAK DROUGHT. ,
La Crosse, Wis.. Aug. 4. Showers
off Wisconsin, Iowa, Minnesota and jH
North Dakota last, night broke the
severe drought according to reports to
the United States weather bureau.
The showers extended .as far south as
Keokuk, Iowa, and as far north as the Jm
Great Lakes. At Milwaukee 1.8 Inchon jm
of rain foil.. ' H
i M
