I KM
H ,,,, is much advertising aluo In WSVl I Kfil ADVERTISE ' 8 H
H JSbu The merchant who has fl I I s4SXZF$&Zfl& RWl'l2SHiS Cs. &v x&. bs Kcry store has some on who If if ft H
. Jf piuh horseshoes In tho ard IK I I ''fl II fc - nPJBi1MflCL HssKS. li' Tll iKll more or less Interested In pushing the TisH
rfttof M tore- or BVtaU,n 1V I I r' rTlr3'l!aS!S3F lilkiXV II IS II II business V. cry business Is worthy it
rQ the neighborhood In business k J II II llgUSjTTifiy1 33 lllyl) II Jll II II greater or less extent of being ' XtiB
-H Irtff, ""' makc lu"0..a rc,mtatlon j Si2JiV JUkv JLL Ilk' enlarged If tho right person gets th ' J
H wSnlallt) but. when It comes to a ' ' u l K T T business In hand and pushes In the IBiH
H L.tttr of business ability, ho will D-VI Itiai i v nrrMini inni right wn) he can mako of that busl IMM
tH SibsMr c unab,e t0 ,l0,Uer th "ULITICALLY. REPUBLICAN. ncs n er) decided enlargement and Ssl
aH lV The moral Is ADVEHTISK. Kntered as 8conu.ci. m..i.. .. . .... . . mnko for himself a very marked ad sf. ,)ZtjiB
(: l"- " n--, , .. "oeconu.ciass Matter. June K 1915, at the Postofflce at Price. Utah. Under the Act of March 3. 187. vantage rJiP IH
;M A0I'IMENUM1IER1Q EVERY PmbAY UGWTfouT l
IDTLE MARKET
1 0N TBHOHIIICE
B0)lcll IlltlMPTS HIMPOtHI.
jM bh: ii iii(iin:u 1'iticix
rtH
I H Mttt Mt s"1 """l Pit-miI nml
hS f,a o, ilulr Stucr lliuk In the
loim-t of MnkliiR n Ik Iter Mnrktt
1H .irrp nnd lnmln Al-ei iv Pur-
1H tlrllMtliii; In tin' ImrtiiM Until
H iml;-llc t n Dollar Hlghtr.
lfl
i r, un ! ",l Hon '" c
f KANSAS CITY, Mo Jul) Jl The
l 0ttte market adanced twent)-rivo to
efl frttr cents last eek, because of re-
, (4 receipts Pasture men urn not
1 unl irrmrd b) dr) vvtuthtr but
i;B ikt thf ) can hold cattle back In the
1 i,rrt i f making n better mnrkt t
ItB ItKtlpt" loda) were estimated at
V ttHtJ" thousand lit oil, but the nctual
H MBt fell short about n thousand
I, id OrasK beef (little declined ten
H M irent rents todn). In loinmnn
H nth loner priim nt all points, but
B nrn fnl i-nttle, btiKher grades and
H ItKktrs and feeder Hold strnd) Top
H isetri here $10 00, top In Chicago
111 IS tup In Omnhn 19.90.
fhttp rurli'l are running far Mhort
4 the demand hire, an ui nri Kilting
Utit Westerns, nnd the siiipl or
ullvea U slmrt this enr The mar-
Irt tdianird seent)-flo unts to a
I ur nn Ismbs last Meek, nnd Is
iMdr tmla, sheep about tut lit) -flu
nforll' rents iiIhivp ii tuck ago No
oVtlee Idaho or othi r Western !mnli
ifff htre toda, but the) Mould
Hist up to 1 10,75. Home rather
"trie Arimnii bimlm wdghlng 71
HinJn sold at $10 40 lodii), ami tin
8h abii rraihid that price I'rlme
net are north up to $7 00 n ilium
ItM )rirllngs IX 21 Pnckern here
v ihlpplng In sheep nnd Inmbs to
top thnr killing fones nt work nnd
to till their order, not being able to
11 lUfll. Jrnt supplies here Choice
Ttittrn I mlw uoulil gi t n flattirlng
rrrrptlon hen llrreillng ewe sell
to 100, omi ewes four )iiim old
Kimlnt Hist prlii recentl), unit u
if n( good feeding lambs Moiilil
n!I tround 9 !K. Country demand
S rj.xl but the siippl) recihed Is
Miurtlilrnl to meet It
lhc nr liotdlng up prelt) Mell
U msrkit nilMinilng leu to firtte.ii
inti lat iik Most or that guln
til Ukrn off todn) Iteieliits elexin
ttdinml luad All the markets Mire
kit hut imrkera are gooil bti)ers,
J the market Is remarknbly strong
lew of the rather liberal receipts,
i trice prkes mori thnn Imii dollars
hr than u )ear ago Wo hud three
vt of lilnhli hogs today from Ilex
'xrt whlrh sold, one enr 177 pounds
tins one ear 180 pounds 19 SO,
! one car INS pounds 19,16 l!x
m t p of tlit market Mas 9 (17 4,
ill top on hou i lulling less than
to humlrril pounds mun I9.C0, tho
Uho hogs selling Mell Up In the
'lk of nil sales here That Is to wi),
hUhi and other Wi sti rn hogs suffer
Mdlfciiint here, us (ompared Mlth
"lulsr i urn fed hoc.
Joint woiik n.r.Mts iumiis
or two hiu:i:ia .ii.mi:m
Nut out. uiso of n( utiles In sluip or
'Be r,. of , um , K tstase, the
"ttfr dlfftrtnt from the foot nnd
B "'' dUmse, has appeared In the
mt of pla, (UrK hn spring or
Hmrner nnd It Is said by l)r T l
"'Wi In charge of the Utah division
the I uniiu or nnlmal Industr), that
' a has been reported In Wjii
'f Tim Intrrmountulu rountr),
l h Ims heretofore In en Infested
ith thesA tMti diseases In slurp, has
Jn cli areel through the mirk of the
Mersl, stall, mid shei pmen'M bu
'. Dr Murray said the frmuent
'Jfplng if iiheep niul the observanto
M the (luarautlno laws Mas u great
' r In ridding the lute rmountuln
Iwntr of t,e ilisensts
"hilt? neither of the ailments mus
-eiiaiitj fHH t(l iinimnls inuih
n 'N i us lint to the II w Mtod nun
''the liittrmountalii tountr), its the
'Pstil hg tllseuse caused sheep to
' ilfcht while the scnblwt caused
w ttn ,0 ,m). tnnglcd A f i
Hie lure Infiettd Mlth the Up and
i ft. ' '" ,',",, ,n N'Tihern
i ii ' ln,lt'H ,,u' "I' ',,,(1 ,,,'c dlseoHe
" "H mid 1910 was considered ill
M i I ml us raids by predator)
imu
'''k llouiit) IntrtiiM'.
Shfe, w,.ri( throughout the state
"' k the commissioners of Utah
"unilm to Im reuse the bount) on
Z, ''" n more of them ma) be klllf d
-J4 Predator) animals eradicated
'" I'men Mill also present a bill
li i """'"K" session of the state
' twuture asking that the bount) on
ImmU '" m reused to thrte dollars
toil ,hH ''Blilaturo mitts tho county
"ln""",on,'', ""I l,e asked to nld In
?a tlng the pests. A A Culllster,
flr) or thn state hoard or sheep
, """'MlomrH, Mho returned Tutsdu)
HuT tt ,r,l' "t tho state, su)s tho
TrPiiifn ,lro faw,r of ,), increase
greater part of tho bounty Is paid
hi. . "np,l,"'n of the state, us the
"of tho Itglslaturo prmldt for a
iai predatory animal tax to be
"ll on sheep and other llo stock
" Treasurer llunten has been
,, "' f"" several dass Mlth a severe
w -f congestion' of tho bowels
, THE CAUSE AND EFFECT.
r ' i
rkrthtiW'U vte- - r wz vlsr wes-0" fi
HARCUSENJISENDORSED
tiling Mtn'a Ittpublltiin (tub HoliN
I'liljtit-liiolle- Mettliig.
It l'rilH enlng nt the torn
modlous oftlie rooms of the Uf
Nelms Insurance eompau) tin Voting
Min's llrpublhan club of lrlre held
an culhuslitstly' meeting at which
there Myc pre nt some forty or rift)
riprem nletUe Trpuldlrnns of I'rlic
precinct, and Hit Jntereet shown Mas
a good augur) or how the election
will go here this fall Tin t lub iinitnl
inoiisl) endorsed the itindlibit) of C
It Marcuscti for state trenstiri r and
Mnrruseu Mas Mired at Halt like
Clt) In that effect
I'n imrMtlous Mere mnde for getting
a good vote out to the prlmar) Mhlth
metis this (l'rlda)l cwnlng at Clt)
Hall, and I'reelntl Chairman ln sug
gested n grand 111 In the hull afttr
the prlmar) U A Mtdto. It J
Turner and A J I. were npolntrd
n eoiiimllter to carry out the details
and the public Is hulled liver) thing
free
A resol it Ion to place the t lub on
record as favoring prohibition as
presented, but met with opposition
and mus withdrawn Ward captains
and committees rrortcd nnd tin
met ting limtruittd them to get bus)
and appoint block captains nnd see
that a 100 per tint Mile was rtgls
tired at the prlmar) calletl for ti
night
Talks wen made b Presldi nt It
K. Clow aril. Judge I' IC Woods. A J
Up. U A Alt (lee J I' Ml Knight. It
J. Turner nnd otlu rs The club addi d
fotirtet n ne memlers to their roster
at the mtetlng and the organization
Is now tompltte with the following
numbers It K Cloward, pnldtnt,
Orson (hi) mull. ! presldt nt, J. I"
MiKnlghl. seerelur), Oscar llans.n,
treasurer, T llrooks. Albert I'ate,
It J TurnerandA.il llunten form
ing the executive cnmmlttte
Mlts. tl'llM I'XSSItS AWAVl
HUAurAiTHCiioN iiii:ctsi:
Mrs T II Auphand dltd at her
home nt lllvtrslde Park near Helper
lust Htiiida) of heart troublt The
remains wire brought to Prlte for
burial Tuistla) afternoon I'uniral
servltes were hi Id In Clt) Hall here,
I'ntluer llenr) mlsslonnr), ofriclatliig,
with the Uw Angtlen Catholk tlloti,
tonduitlng the fim ral
Mrs Auphand was an old resldtnt
of Carbon touiit) having settled ut
llilper aoim )trs ago and when she
hail since made her home lebles
her huslMtnd she leaves two children,
h girl and a Imi) Ilurlal Itaik plate
at tin til) tt meter) and the n mains
wtrc follow id b) a large trowd of
friends and aitimlntanes of the tit
i eased tin funeral being the larj.es t
tjtr held In Prlie Mr Auphand has
tl s)iuath) of the entire toinuuinl
tv In his btreavement nnd he I er
"raterul to friends for the man)
Ulndnesse-s shown the fnmll)
I,I115.('III li.V'T tKHM()N
1 "'" Tr HCMV MOItMNt.
Kev Oscar Smith will preach his
last sermon as pastor or the loool
Methodist church next Sunda) morn-
Inir He has accepted tho position of
eud professor of phllosoph) and )-
clmlog) in the N'T.'r'hun
Pasadena. Cain . a school of five hun
dred students . ,
An able man has been engaged to
succeid llv S'nlH' l,a'',0,: hf.re
and I I arrive In Price soon after the
stolon of the IH-.li Methodist ml.
.tan. "n talt UHh C t the last Hun
da) I August In the meantime,
strong ministers have been engaged
,o U the pulpit of the loci church
II Smith has made man) friends
dur nt his pastorate In W" J o JHI
chan WW hi. new home and work
SPEED ORDINANCE
TO BE JFOBCEO
TliAMh AMI AITOS Ml hi l(i:i:i
ItKilll' Ol' HOl.
hlgu ItonnU to Ik' I'lnttil On Corners
Warning TrutHr As III hMiil l.luills
I.Uht nnd Wntir Prlvlligcs to lle
Minlctl llfbltiitM (lulklil or (It)
l.linll ( It) Dudylluvi a t-prenil.
At a meeting of the tit) mini II
Tuesda) night the strict supervisor
was Instrutted to have twelve sign
hoards mnde, rorly lettered, vvurn
lug uutomohlle drivers, nnd motort)
rle riders to ol.ierve the rules or the
road and the spied limit as pri scribed
by the t It) ordlhnncc, and the mar
shal will be Instructed htnreforlh to
see thill the order of council Is en
foried )The oidlnnnco provides for
a speed not to exceed ten miles nn
hour across crossings, and n spied not
greuter than eighteen miles nn hour
on any other public street
During the past month the street
departmtnt has done some m riled
work In grading down the hilt nt the
Prlte academy, helping the general
nppearante In that tltlnlt). The strrit
supervisor was ulso Instrutted to kiep
In good order nil roads connecting up
pvlth the count) hlghwii) lending
from the t It) limits.
Ittnewnl policies In the sum of rif
le e it thousand dollars on thn three
power plant Imlli rs were approved b)
council.
There are n number of properly
owners enJo)lng light nnd water priv
ilege whose propertlts are not tax
able for tlty purposes, owing to a
failure to complete thn riling or plats
at cording to law at the time applica
tion wns made to a former count II to
have their prop rtlrs tnkin Into the
tit) These persons will bo served
with fifteen du)s notlte to tompltte
suth filings, otherwise the light and
water service will be dlstontlnued
The regular monthl) tlnlm list was
considered and allowed
While council was In session the
ladlts of the Korosls and tile Ir rrleuds
wire en Jo) lug ft basket liinth and so
ldi) In the City Hall and nt the close
or the sewslon the ladles trrated the
mi mix rs of the count II and officers
to a sumptuous reast which was
greatl) euJo)ed l all
Next meitlng of the tountll will be
held Tuesda) evening August ISth
mus. t.roiK.i: it. itnM'ii
is MMM.V lir.MI'.MIIimi(l
ltst weeks Muntl Mtssenger sa)S
' Utst Hundn) morning tho teachers
land sovrnD-flvo little tots of the kin
, tlergrsten department or the south
I ward Hunda) school marched airosa
I the strut to tho hoinn or Mrs. Oeorge
I K llench. where the) entertained her
Ion thn lawn with their kindergarten
songs Mrs Pench. Mho Is Just re
i covering from it four months' Illness.
I was seated where well child marched
I pant her and presentid her with n
bouiiutt of flovvtrs Mrs Hem It
shook hands with each little tot and
'she will long remember the little deed
I of kindness' Mrs llench Is the mo.
tber of Oeorge K llench and Mrs. U
A Uuiber at Price, and has vlslttd
here numerous times
Any time )ou go to lllack Hawk
I never forget to stop ut lllatk Hawk
Hotel Mrs II Clark conducts It
Treats one nleol) Nothing too good
for )ou Country folks Clan lds
liind the best that's to bo cooked This
.Is no paid advertisement Just a
I tribute
MRS. GflHM DIES
Dentil Occurs At Suit Uiko City nnd
Hurlnl TnkiHt Plntt' At Muntl.
Mrs I 'lien V Hiuiw Chrlslenson,
ngrd 38 )enrs, wife of Judge Albert
II Chrlitcnson of Mnnil, who pre
sides over the Heventli District court,
died shortl) before 9 o'clock Insl I'rl
da) night In private apartments nt
Halt Utke Clt) The cause of death
was ihronlc nephritis, developnl six
months ngo
Palling to show signs of Improve
ment while bilng nttrndril at htr
home (ii .Mnntl by u ph)slclnn, Mrs.
Chrlslenson wns removed to the hos
pital In Halt Uike City, where she re
mnlnid four weeks, when It was
thought liest to tnke her to the prl
vote apartments where she tiled,
Mrs. Chrlslenson vvn. n woman or
unusual literary nhlllt). n renluus and
nctlvf worker In the Mormon thurih,
nnd wus known and Itelovul b) hun
dreds of friends throughout the stale
Mrs. Christeusou wns born Januur)
31, 1878, the daughter of Joseph H
and Kllen Vunburen Know. Her bro
ther, nnd sisters are W C nnd K. V,
Hnovv of Halt Uike Clt), Mrs. A. U
Silt of Heber City ami Mrs C K
Itlddle, Mrs. Oeorge K lllatk and Jo
seph H. Know, Jr, of Muntl Khu was
married to A. II Chrlslenson Kepteni
lr :a, 1900. There are five children
three sons nnd two daughters who
survive,
Puneral services wire held at Mnn
tl. her home, Monday, burial taking
plate In that illy, and was atteudttl
by many sorrowing friends nnd relatives.
CL0ODBURSTAT HELPER
renin Is ritMMlctl unit "Mm Ii Duuiagi
Horn In lluiiMit.
Helper had u cloudburst last I'rl
day about noon that did considerable
damuge lo property and gardens In
the north part Of thn town, 1 he flood
hit the tonp ifllttln while after dinner
und houses situated bijtvvtiii tho
tracks were Iwusheil Into lain street,
the w ultra ciVmliig onrihe bluffs to
thn north like n n gulur Niagara A
tremendous pll of rocks, dirt und
other debris were piled upon thn rail
road tracks In the )urds delajlng
west bound trains several litn(f"sT)
Tho waters after comliigiluMrrrtho
mountain ran Into Main street to thn
draw In tho cast end of thu town nnd
thence Into the Prlto river Chit ken
coops, t hit kens, bier kegs nnd debris
ol nil kinds could be seen floating
down the rlvtr as far us Prlte The
greatest damage was done In the
north pnrl or town among resident es
Thn storm was general to thn east
or Price, as the railroad bridge ut
Verde was Hashed out, deholng the
Huttirday morning trains until ubout
S o'clock In the afternoon No dam
tnge was done east or here extept to
'the track and bridges. Washouts Mere
reported east of Oreen Itlver and In
Colorado near Qrand Junction
I), A Parsons, receiver for the Mlg-lloro-Hcarpino
company at Kunnyslde,
met with a painful accident Wednes
day thut has caused him considerable
suffering since He had started for
Hunn)slde In nn automobile and was
reaching aver the side of the inu thine
i lo adjust i suit case on the footboard
when the door opened and he was
precipitated to the ground, alighting
on his fact The uoeldent occurred
In tho Cook east of the court house
und the inuuhlne was going nt thn rate
or rifteen miles an hour Pursnns Is
thankful that his Injuries are no
worse und hopes to be on the Job at
Bunnyslde In n few du)s.
CANDIDATE HUGHES J
OUTLINES POLICIES 1
;
i HI
Declares for New Policy Toward Mexico and for
Maintenance of American Rights in War H
Urges Adequate National Defense Legisla- ' j H
tion to Benefit Workingmen of the United ( H
States Favors Woman Suffrage. '
NCW YORK, July 31. Clinrlcrt E. HurIics tonight outlined In j H
IiIh Kpcech of ncceptnncc the issues upon which he wilt conduct his f jJ
cnmpnlKii for the presidency. Mr. HurIich assailed the ndminls i J H
trntion for the course it lias pursued with reference to Mexico, j r jH
mnintent!ico of American righta during the European war, pre- t
paredncsH and other great questions of the day. He declared for ' H
a new policy of "firmness nnd consistency" toward Mexico, for ' H
"the unflinching maintenance df nil American rights on land nnd H
sea," nnd for adequate national defense; adequate protection on jH
both our Eastern and Western Coasts. iH
"We denounce all plots nnd conspiracies in the interest of nny H
foreign nation," Mr. Hughes said. "Utterly intolerable is the use H
of our soil for alien intrigues. Every American must unreservedly iJH
condemn them and support every effort for their suppression."
The nominee nssailed the administration for its "direction of J
diplomatic intercourse" from the beginning, declaring that where H
there should have been conspicuous strength nnd expertness there ! H
had been weakness nnd inexpertness. He cited Santo Domingo as , jH
an instance where appointments had gone to "deserving demo- H
cratH," and to the failure to continue Ambassador Herrick at ids j H
post in Paris after the wnr had started as "a lamentable sacrifice H
of internntionnl repute." H
TOR WOMAN' SUITKAGE. V'ili
"I indorse the declaration in the platform in favor of woman H
suffrage," Mr. Hughes declared and he added: "Opposition may tH
delay, but in my judgment cannot defeat this movement. I favor . H
thu vote for women.". ' IvjH
One-fourth of thn speech was devoted to Mexico, step after tjjTtH
step, taken by the administration with referenco to Mexico was 1 u
assnilcd, from the days of Huerta to the note sent tho dc facto gov- j H
,ernmcnt by the state department July 20th Inst, part of which M AH
was quoted in the speech. Thu seizure of Vera Cruz, the nomlnco ' 1 H
said, "was war, of course." ' 'H
"Later we retired from Vera Cruz," ho continued, "giving up i
this noble warfare. Recently tho naked truth was admitted by n ' ,H
cnblnctof fleer. Wo nru now Informed that wo did not go to Vera I ' H
Cruz to force Huerta to salute the flag. We arc told that wo went jl
there to 'show Mexico that we were in earnest in our demand that , If jjjH
Iluertn must go.' " ' fH
DIITICULTICS CHEATED. lH
America, Mr. Hughes continued, "has no policy of aggression to- 1 j
ward Mexico, no dcslro for any part of her territory, but wishes , f j jH
her to liavo peace, stability and prosperity. The conduct of the j w
administration has created difficulties we slinlt have to surmount. i iH
Wo demnnd from Mexico tho protection of tho lives nnd property d N
of our citizens and the security of our border from depredations." H
Safeguarding of American rights abroad had not been accom- ! f H
piished by the administration, ho said. There had been "bravo j f
words in a scries of notes," but "what does it avnil to use some of 'llspB
tho strongest words known to diplomacy if ambassadors can re- slilHiil
celve tho impression that the words are not to be taken seriously?" Iri'isfl
Tho nominee reiterated his belief that had this government i ' iH
left no doubt that it meant to hold Germnny to "strict nccount- iiiissH
ability" thero would have been no loss of life on the Lusitnnin. i ' jlB
Discussing preparedness, Mr. Hughes said it was apparent thnt tho f itiflH
United SUitcs "wns shockingly unprcpnred." "Tho administrn- iHHfl
tion has failed to discharge any of its responsibilities," he con- i ! M
tinued. Of tho present prosperity Mr. Hughes said: I ! 'i&'ijB
"We are living in a fool'H paradise." It Is, he sntd, n prosperity i ( Slfll
brought about by the abnormal conditions of wnr. For tho pro- i 'HI
tection of tho Industries nnd worklngmen of tho United States iTSflH
ngninst thu competition of an "energized Europe," Mr. Hughes !.UiBa
said, It was plain that we must have protection, upbuilding noli- 'itflHi
cies. Other measures, too, should bo applied, ho said, notably tho ilcHH
upbuilding of a merchant marine. j M
The large audience which crowded Carnegio Hall to capacity frlSD
cheered for severnl minutes when Mr. HugheH appeared shortly lli;HB
after 8 o clock. The nominee recognled Theodore Roosevelt In . !lf 'HPI
one of the boxes, waved to him and Mr. Roosevelt clapped hia llJiSal
hands in acknowledgement. 'lfiUH
.Mit. iir. mis' hPiau'ir or .rci:prNcii MHiHbI
Kenator llardlnir. members of the
notification commltisu und fellow
cltltens
This titcHislon Is morn than u mere
ceremon) of noliricutlon. Wo ure not
here to Indulge In formal expressions
We come to state In pluln and direct
manner eur faith, our purpose und
our define ThU represtntntlvo Knth
crlnif Is u hnpi) uujjur) It means
the strenuth of reunion. It meuns
that the part) of Lincoln Is lestored,
nlert, effective . It meuns the unity
of a common reception of paramount
national needs It means that wo are
neither deceived nor benumbed by ub
normal eondltlons We know that wo
are In n critical period lerlmps more
orltleal than any period since tho
elvll war We need u dominant sense
of national unit), tho exercise of our
best constructive power the vigor
and resourcefulness of a quickened lti!liH
America We dtslre that the repub- IfHHfll
lit an party ns a great liberal purly ifhlWHIHfl
shall Ut the agency of national l ' H
uohlevemont the or Kan of the effeo- ittl llB9
live expression of dominant Amerl- liltH9
canlsm j,? i ijH
What do I mean by thatT I mean tflni ibUHH
America, conscious of power, awake wK 'lfl
to obligation erect In self respect, pre- l& HB
pared for ever) emergenc) devoted 'UkBHI
iti tho Ideals of peace, Instinct with "ISShDh
the spirit of humun lirotherhootl, wife- ( dH
Kiiurdlug both Individual opportunity , jHlJlV
und the public interest, maintaining n ' flHflfl
well ordered constitutional s)stem KPjBSBh
adapted to local self government with- tilflHfll
out the murlfloe of euentlnl national 'huHBm
uuthorlt) niiprt elating th necessity 'SCtkHBH
or stabilll) expert knovvledgti and 'HKBBM
thorough orjraulratlon as tho Indli- !flBkl9
(Continued on iag two) IIHhIH
