The Echo has a
reading circulation
or over 4.000 per
sons who trade in
Leavenworth. Ad
vertise and increase
your business.
Vol. 13. No. 31
MRS. W. A. 6URLEIGH
AT THE SCENIC MATER
first Political Address Ever Made Hfre
by Woman—Made a Good
Impression
Mrs. Burleigh faced a fair sized au-1
dience in the Scenic Theater last Tues
day evening among whom were thirty
odd women. But for the short notice j
given of the meeting the auditorium j
would have been crowded. A number
have expressed regrets over the failure
to be advised of the meeting.
Mr. J. B. Adams acted as chapman
of the meeting and presented the
speaker to the audience with a few
brief remarks. Mrs. burleiah launched
into her subject, which was republic
anism, and wound up with a special
plea for the support of Mr. Roland H.
Hartley, of Everett, for governor.
After referring to the history of the
republican party, and its consistent
record, covering twenty-odd years of
protection for American workingmen
and AmericaD industries, and making
a brief reference to the shifty record
of its honored democratic copponent.
She talked about organization
and partisanship, urging the necessity
of organization in order to accomplish
the political ends to which the repub
lican party is committed. Partisanship
leads to organization and party unity,
without which the republican party, or
any other party, would be much like a
mob and never could accomplish
anything. She urged the women to
organize republican clubs and read aud
talk politics, to the end that they might
vote knowingly and for the best inter
ests of the country. Alone with the
right to vote they are now charged with
the obligation of voting intelligently.
To be able to do this they must keep
themselves informed on public ques
tions.
Without questioning the fitness of
any candidate for governor on the re
publican primary ticket to be voted on
Sept. 12 next, she particularly called
attention to the candidacy of Hon.
Roland H. Hartley, of Everett, who
by education, training in the school of
life experience, the successful ad
ministration of his private affairs since
becoming a citizen of this state, was
an ideal candidate, and at this critical
period particurarly well equipped to
direct the affairs of the state of Wash
ington. She briefly covered the life
of her champion from the time he
went to work as a cook in a Minnesota
lumber camp to the time he came to
Washington and engaged in lumbering
in which he has made a marked suc
cess.
Mrs. Burleigh is an intelligent woman
an easy and fluent talker and a sound
reasoner. Her address was listened to
with close attention. The more be
cause a political speech by a woman
was an unusual thing in this town.
Planting Game fish
Game Warden Watson was here yes
terday with a load of young cutthroat
trout which he will turn loose in Lake
Wenatchee. He expects two large
lots today which he will liberate in two
lakes on the headwaters of Snow creek,
and in the lakes on the head of Jack
creek, one of the tributaries of the
Icicle river.
As a result of exposure and overwork
in the G. N. yards a short time ago Clif
Reardon was last week threatened with
pneumonia. For a rest and change he
went up to Lake Wenatchee, to his
father-in-law's, W. F. Blankenship.
A report was received here yesterday
that he is recovering and will soon be
back on his job.
Mr. and Mrs. Chas. Lilligren left
yesterday for Sanßernardino, Cal. where
they expect to make their future home.
They have lived here a number of years
and leave a host of friends.
Mrs. H. B. Hinckley, Austin. Minn,
is here on a visit of indefinite length
with her sister Mrs Fred Lee.
ZTbe Xeavenwortb Se zho
lawn Party at the Tegtmeier Home
Mr. and Mrs. W. A. Tegtmeier en
' tertaioed a number of friends at a lawn
picnic party yesterday evening at their
home on River froDt street. Luncheon
: was served in picnic style. The fol
lowing guests were present: Mr. and
Mrs. F. E. Carlquist, Mr. and Mrs. G.
A. Hamilton, Mr. and Mrs. L. O. Tay
| lor, Mr. and Mrs. C. A. Campbell,
Mr. and Mrs. A. G. McKeown, Mr.
and Mrs. H. G. Krollpfeiffer, Mr. and
Mrs. P. A. Snyder, Mr. and Mrs. R.
B. Field, Mrs. K. B. Allison, Miss
Grue, Miss Tullis, Mr. R. F. Taylor,
Mr. W. F. Ramsdell and Mr. R. A.
McKinnie.
ME SUTTON APPLE BOX
A WONDERfUL INVENTION
Destined to Revolutionize the Boxing of
Apples—Pronounced the Best Ever
by All Who Have Seen It
Mr. E S. Sutton, who with George
Deering is interested in the cultivation
and development of one of the finest
apple orchards in the upper valley has
invented an apple boxing machine that
is pronounced by all who have seen it
to be superior, better and more con
venient than anything yet put before
the apple growers of the Wenatchee
valley. It is so simple, so perfect in
every respect, takes up less room and
is in every way convenient that it saves
time and money to every orchard
grower. It is made almost entirely of
wood and weighs only 62 pounds. Its
locking device is simple and yet rigid
and requires less effort than any other
box. It has only to be seen to have
all its merits understood at a glance.
There are many apple boxing machines
on the market but M. Sutton need have
no fear that his will take the lead once
its merits are understood. The price
will also be reasonable, in truth lower
than some now in use. Arrangements
have been made with the Leavenworth
Mercantile Co. to place one on exhi
bition for inspection by fruit growers.
Mr. Sutton has secured a patent on his
invention and will manufacture his ma
chine right here, and supply the wants
of the apple growers. The invention
came about thru his using several of
those now in use and noting their de
fects. The self-locking feature is one
that will appeal to all who have had
experience with other machines. Go
and see it, Mr. Applegrower, and be
convinced that it is an improvement
on all others.
EVERYBODY MUST REGISTER
TO VOTE UNDER NEW LAW
Unless You Are Registered You Can Not
Vote at the Primary Election
September 12th.
If you want to vote at the primary
election Sept. 12, you must register.
Hundreds of voters have failed to take
the time to do this. Keep this in
mind and the next time you pass the
office of registration in your precinct,
step in and have your name enrolled.
It will only take two minutes. For
the benefit of voters we have obtained
the names and places where voters
must go to register in the western part
of the county. Following are the
names of the officers and their location:
Tumwater Precinct, registration officer,
L. R. Hart, registration books at office
of Tumwater Light & Power Co.; Pe
shastin Precinct, registration officer, J.
18. Duncan, books at barber shop;
Dryden Precinct, registration officer,
J. G. Dollar, books at Sherman's store;
Blewett Precinct.registration officer, A.
M. Aston, books Peshastin Lumber
Company's office; Brender Precinct,
Registration officer, - George Beam,
books at Beam ranch.
Louis Lancaster received a letter last
Friday from Kansas notifying him of
■ the death of Miss Ella Powers,, who
visited here last summer with Miss Ida
Haley. Those who had the pleasure
!of meeting her while here will be
grieved at her untimely taicing of!.
The Higher Up the Valley You Go the Bigger and Better the Apples Grow
Leavenworth, Wash., Friday, August 4, 1916
J. B. VIOIETTE EINED
$250 EACH, TWO CASES
fined $50 in County Case—One Case
Pending—All fines Were Promptly
Paid
J. B. Violette appeared before City
Magistrate Graham and entered a plea
of guilty in two cases for violation of
the dry law. One for selling two quarts
of whiskey to a man, and the other for
having more liquor in his possession
when the raid was made on his resi
dence last week than the law permitted
The costs in each case were less than
five dollars.
On Monday of this week he appeared
before Magistrate Graham and plead
guilty under a county charge to selling
two quarts" of whiskey. This leaves
one county case still pending, under
which he is charged with having more
liquor in his possession than the law
permits. In the county case he was
fined $50 and costs. County Attorney
Williams was here Monday to represent
the state. What will be done in the
pending case has not been decided.
SENATOR POINDEXTER
AT WENATCHEE AUG. 10
Leavenworth August 11—Will Make an
Active Canvass for the Nomination
—Thirty Speeches.
Senator Poindexter gave out the in
formation in Washington Wednesday
that he would open his campaign in
Central Washington at Wenatchee,
Aug. 10th. He intends to make 20
speecaes between the tenth and pri
mary election day, Sept. 12.
If Congressman Humphries expects
to have a walk away he is doomed to
be disappointed. Mr. Poindexter is a
good campaigner and will have some
thing to tell the voters that will furnish
food for serious thought.
Epidemic of Skinned Faces
If you are an observing individ
ual and noticed several citizens this
week with their faces decorated with
criss-crossed court plaster, their
eyes blackened and faces bruised
in all probability you concluded they
had been in a free-for-all scrap.
You wouldn't expect a man who
had passed the meridian of life to
confess that he had been guilty of so
undignified, so foolish and indiscreet
an act as to engage in a fight? Well,
Marshal Teshera says he got his scars
chasing calves out of a lot. He threw
a rock and it bounded back and hit
him on the cheek and forehead.
That's his story. Prof. James Mc-
Daniel showed up Wednesday morning
with an awful scar on the side of his
face and court plaster covering a gash
some three inches long. He was try
ing to move a house with a crowbar
and it slipped off and the end hit him on
the cheek, cutting thru to the bone.
That's how he explained his patched
up face to friend.s. If you hap
pened to notice Mayar's face last
Tuesday mornine, the man who pre
tends he runs the Echo, you saw an
ugly scar on his face, between the
eye and nose, covered with strips
of adhesive plaster and collodion
and smelling of ether, his eyes
bloodshot and bruised, you
might have thot he had had a fight
with a bear, but he says it all came of
spliting kindling for his wife. That's
what he says, but — The balance of
the lame, the halt, the bruised and the
blind have not reported at this writing.
Notice to Water Users
When alarm of fire is given please
shut off all taps under penalty of fine.
By order of Water Commissioner. 31tf*
Mr. and Mrs. O. E. Swartz and
daughter returned from Bellingham
yesterday afternoon where they had
been on a brief visit to Mr. Swartz'
brother.
I $45,000,000 Property Loss in N. Y.
Harbor Sunday
Warehouses, cars and ships loaded
; with war munitions intended for ship
j ment to Europe exploded as the result
|of a burning barge drifting onto a pier
containing inflammable war munitions.
One explosion set off another, lasting
several hours before all the explosives
in the area had been set off. The
explosion was heard and felt for a dis
tance of 90 miles and caused damage
to the amount of forty-five million dol
lars. Considering the violence of the
explosion and the property damage the
loss of life was small, not more than a
half dozen, tho a great many injuries
resulted from brokeD glass ana flying
material. The explosion is believed to
have been due to the activity of war
sympathisers.
AMERICAN ALUMINUM CO.
INVEST IN CHELAN COUNTY
Buy four Claims Near Merritt Wash.,—
May Decide to Build Smelter
In the West
H. B. Smith, an old settler in the
Nason creek valley, and Carl Klein
schmidt, a mining expert of some fame
in the northwest, concluded a deal
with an agent of the American Alumi
num Co., of Niagara Falls, N. V., the
largest producers of aluminum in the
United States, for their four claims
near Merritt. Mr. Smith, who was
here the first of this week, says the
Aluminum company some time ago
had their agent ship one ton of ore
taken from the four claims Messrs.
Smith and Kleinschmidt owned in the
western part of the county, a few miles
southwest of Merritt, from which the
company extracted 2T/i per cent of
aluminum, and on the strength of this
test they acquired ownership of the
property on a substantial payment in
cash, the balance of the purchase
money, some $200,000, to be paid
out of the earnings of the company.
John P. Fay, of Seattle, represented
the American Aluminum Co. Assays
have been made from picked samples
of the ore mnning as high as 80 per
cent. It is found in the form of an
oxyd in a large body of carborundum,
practically inexhaustible in quantity.
The aluminum is extracted at Niagara
Falls by what is known as the electro
lytic process. Mr. Fay says if after
thoro examination it proves all the
company hopes for it quite likely they
will build an aluminum refining plant
somewhere in the west' the first step
in which will be the installation of an
hydro-electric plant.
Son of A. N. Pearson Poisoned
Word was received here yesterday
evening that the little four year old son
of N. H. Pearson who removed
to Wenatchee to take the position of
assistent prosecuting attorney, had
been poisoned by eating 15 chloride of
potash tablets. Chloride of potash is
a peculiar and slow acting poison and
may take several days to disclose its
full effect. The family was moving
into the new home and in some way
the child got hold of the tablets and
had eaten fifteen before discovery was
made.
Map of Ih World on Huge Scale
Have you stopped to look at that
map of the world in the Mutual Mercan
tile Co.'s display window? It is worth
looking at. It gives one a good gen
eral idea of the location of the different
points mentioned in the war dispatches
from Europe. It was made from mem
ory by Mr. Wm. Mclntosh, and is re
markably accurate in the contour of
the land suifaces of the earth and loca
tion of island', seas and stragetic points
in the great war zone.
Howard Blankenship who was here
Wednesday evening said business at
the lake Wenatchee hotels is looking
up since the warm weather set in.
Last Sunday all places were crowded
with visitors.
Miss Hexey Casstins is spending her
vacation with Miss Lettie Neutzel at
the mines.
REPRESENTATIVE PALMER,
DEMOCRAT, PROTECTIONIST
Prosperity Due to Munitions Sales Will
End With the War-What
Then?
A quiet chucWe made the rounds of
the republican contingent in the house
of representatives the other day when
it was learned that Hon. A. Mitchell
Palmer had appeared before the Ways
and Means committee to argue 'or the
restoration of a protective terifl on con
densed milk, on the ground that the
condensed milk industry in Canada
was making serious inroads on the
American market and injuring our
domestic industry in canned milk.
When Palmer was in congress he
was a member of the Ways and Meams
committee and it was while he was on
that committee that condensed milk
was put on the free list. It carried a
duty of two cents a pound under the
republican law. During the fiscal
year 1914, nine months of which was
under the democratic tariff law, eight
times as much milk, fresh and con
densed, came into this country as dur
ing the fiscal year 1913, when republi
can rates were in effect. During the
fiscal year 1915 our imports of milk in
creased ISO per cent over the 1914
figures. In each instance 50 per cent
of our imports came from Canada.
Palmer's own state, Pennsylvania, ranks
second in the production of milk.
But the states bordering on Canada are
the ones which feel Canadian competi
tion most keenly. They are the New
England States and New York, North
Dakota, Wisconsin, Michigan, Idaho,
Montana and Washington.
Dairymen and condensed milk man
ufacturers thruout the country would
be intensely interested in Palmer's ar
gument. Coming from a democrat
who has been one of the bitterest de
nouncers of the protective tariff pclicy
that ever sat in the house of represen
tatives, an argument for protection
would be refreshing. A correspon
dent called at the committee rooms
shortly after Palmer had delivered his
plea for protection on condensed milk,
hoping to secure a copy, but he was
informed that it was a matter of the
deepest secrecy.
The democratic tariff law cut the
duty on hay fifty per cent, or from $4
to $2 a ton, which pleased Canada
immensely, she being our chief com
petitor in hay. Comparing the ten
months ended July 31,1914, the first
ten months' operation of the demo
cratic tariff law before the outbreak of
the European war, with the ten months
ended July 31, 1913, with the republi
can tariff law in operation, and the
official figures show that our imports of
hay from Canada increased 50 per
cent under the democratic law; while
during ths ten months ended July
1915, our imports of hay from Canada
were almost negligible because Canada
was sending all she could spare to
Europe. Recently imports of hay from
Canada have been picking up again,
nearly eight times as much coming in
during the ten months of the fiscal
year 1916, ended April, as during the
ten months ended July 31,1915. The
close of the present calendar year will
again find Canada engrossing a gener
ous share of our market for hay.
The adherence of ex-senator Bever
idge to the Hughes cause is an occa
sion of much alarm to Democrats in
Indiana, who had counted upon Bev
eridge to furnish the heavy artillery
for a Bull Moose campaign in Hoosier
dom. With Beveridge on the stump
for the republican ticket, as he says he
will be, it means that his personal fol
lowing which two Progressive cam
paigns have shown to be surprisingly
large, will be in the republican col
umn and that Indiana will be safely
republican also.
U. S. Senator Reed Sraoot, of Utah,
makes the following statement: "Ex
portations from the United States for
the fiscal year ending 30, 1916, were
Our Job Printing
department is com
plete. It you want
High Class printing
at reasonable prices,
come to tkis office.
$1.50 Per Year
the greatest in the history ol the coun
try. They were over $4,000,000.
More than half of these exportations
were munitions of war and to meet de
mands made by the war. As soon as
the war closes that market will close.
The actual truth is that there have
been le-s exportations of products of
the country that are generally sent to
foreign countries in the past year than
there had been for years and years be
fore. Just as soon as the war ceases
all the trade of all the industries manu
facturing that $2,000,000,000 worth
and more will have to find a market
elsewhere or the employees will be
turned out of employment.
TAKEN Off WENATCHEE STAGE
MONDAY NIGHT BY HUSBAND
At Point of Gun Was Made to Enter His
Car—Parties Belong in
Wenatchee
Monday evening a man arrived here
in a Dodge car about 8 o'clock and
inquired the way to Wenatchee lake.
Told by the proprietor of the Barclay
hotel that if he was not familiar with
road he had better DUt off his trip until
morning he replied his business was
urgent and he must go and wanted to
hire some one familiar with the road
to accompany him. He found and
employed Gene Stirling. Within a few
miles of the Club house on Wenatchee
lake they met the regular stage that
runs between the lake and Wenatchee.
The driver of the Dodge car, who
gave the name of Davis, got out and
went to the stage which had stopped
by the side of the road and at the point
of a gun made a woman he claimed
was his wife get out and accompany
him. At first refusing she finally
yielded and got into Davis' car where
it appears Davis made some threats of
bodily harm, as she screamed. Finally
he drove off in the direction of Leav
enworth, where arriving he discharged
his guide and drove off, presumably in
the direction of Wenatchee. After the
stage reached here complaint was made
to the officers but Davis has not been
heard from.
A well known young man about We
natchee by the name of Charles Martin
was in company with Davis' wife at
the lake hotel severai days. Parties
who saw Davis when he reached here
tell how he had two broken springs
and two flat tires when he arrived at
Leavenworth and never stopped for a
little thing like that but kept right on
in the direction of Wenatchee.
200 People Burned in Ontario, Canada
Forest fires in Canada east the first
of this week of most unusual severity
are reported in the daily press. A
half dozen or more towns in the path
of the fire were des.royed and upwards
of two hundred lives were lost.
Two Americans and Some Mexicans
Killed in Border Scrap
Monday last one of those regretable
border raids occurred on the line be
tween the United States and Mexico,
in which two American soldiers were
killed and some others wounded, and
five Mexicans reported killed.
George Hendricks, a veteran sheep
man, who has grazed his flocks in this
vicinity for many years shipt three cars
of lambs Wednesday, making a total of
eleven cars of lambs he has shipt so
far this year. He says the demand for
lambs has been strong and the price
very good Uiis year.
Mr. and Mrs. A. E. James were
Seattle bound travelers r.i No. 1 Wed
nesday. Mr. James wanted a vacation
and Mrs. James accompani.d him, and
while there will consult a physician
about her general health which has
not been good lately.
The Lutheran ladies aid will give a
Parcel Post bazaar aDd serve a good
supper in Sept. Please watch lor the
arrival of the bills. 31*
Mrs. Sarah Rice, of Wenatchee,
is here on a visit to the family of her
I son, W. W. Rice.
